The-Odyssey
奥德赛
The Odyssey
奥德赛
Preface to First Edition
第一版序言
Preface to Second Edition
第二版序言
BOOK I THE GODS IN COUNCIL—MIVERVA’S VISIT TO ITHACA—THE CHALLENGE FROM TELEMACHUS TO THE SUITORS.
第一卷《众神会议》——米维尔瓦对伊萨卡的访问——忒勒马科斯对追求者的挑战。
BOOK II ASSEMBLY OF THE PEOPLE OF ITHACA—SPEECHES OF TELEMACHUS AND OF THE SUITORS—TELEMACHUS MAKES HIS PREPARATIONS AND STARTS FOR PYLOS WITH MINERVA DISGUISED AS MENTOR.
第二卷 伊萨卡人民大会——特勒马科斯和求婚者的演讲——特勒马科斯做好了准备，并在密涅瓦伪装成导师的情况下开始前往皮洛斯。
BOOK III TELEMACHUS VISITS NESTOR AT PYLOS.
第三卷 忒勒马科斯在皮洛斯拜访内斯特。
BOOK IV THE VISIT TO KING MENELAUS, WHO TELLS HIS STORY—MEANWHILE THE SUITORS IN ITHACA PLOT AGAINST TELEMACHUS.
第四卷 拜访国王墨涅拉俄斯，他讲述了他的故事——与此同时，伊萨卡的求婚者密谋反对忒勒马科斯。
BOOK V CALYPSO—ULYSSES REACHES SCHERIA ON A RAFT.
第五卷卡利普索——尤利西斯乘木筏到达谢里亚。
BOOK VI THE MEETING BETWEEN NAUSICAA AND ULYSSES.
第六卷《风之谷》与《尤利西斯》的相遇。
BOOK VII RECEPTION OF ULYSSES AT THE PALACE OF KING ALCINOUS.
第七卷 尤利西斯在阿尔西努斯国王宫殿的接待。
BOOK VIII BANQUET IN THE HOUSE OF ALCINOUS—THE GAMES.
第八卷阿尔西努斯之家的宴会——游戏。
BOOK IX ULYSSES DECLARES HIMSELF AND BEGINS HIS STORY—-THE CICONS, LOTOPHAGI, AND CYCLOPES.
第九卷《尤利西斯》宣告了自己并开始了他的故事——西孔斯、洛托法吉和独眼巨人。
BOOK X AEOLUS, THE LAESTRYGONES, CIRCE.
书X 风神，LAESTRYGONES，瑟茜。
BOOK XI THE VISIT TO THE DEAD.
第十一卷《探访死者》。
BOOK XII THE SIRENS, SCYLLA AND CHARYBDIS, THE CATTLE OF THE SUN.
第十二卷 塞壬、斯库拉和卡律布狄斯，太阳之牛。
BOOK XIII ULYSSES LEAVES SCHERIA AND RETURNS TO ITHACA.
第十三卷《尤利西斯》离开谢里亚并返回伊萨卡。
BOOK XIV ULYSSES IN THE HUT WITH EUMAEUS.
第十四卷 尤利西斯与尤迈乌斯在小屋里。
BOOK XV MINERVA SUMMONS TELEMACHUS FROM LACEDAEMON—HE MEETS WITH THEOCLYMENUS AT PYLOS AND BRINGS HIM TO ITHACA—ON LANDING HE GOES TO THE HUT OF EUMAEUS.
第十五卷密涅瓦从斯代蒙召唤忒勒马科斯——他在皮洛斯与神奥克利门斯会面，并把他带到伊萨卡——登陆后他去了尤迈乌斯的小屋。
BOOK XVI ULYSSES REVEALS HIMSELF TO TELEMACHUS.
第十六卷《尤利西斯》向忒勒马科斯揭示了自己。
BOOK XVII TELEMACHUS AND HIS MOTHER MEET—ULYSSES AND EUMAEUS COME DOWN TO THE TOWN, AND ULYSSES IS INSULTED BY MELANTHIUS—HE IS RECOGNISED BY THE DOG ARGOS—HE IS INSULTED AND PRESENTLY STRUCK BY ANTINOUS WITH A STOOL—PENELOPE DESIRES THAT HE SHALL BE SENT TO HER.
第十七卷 忒勒马科斯和他的母亲相遇——尤利西斯和尤迈尤斯来到镇上，尤利西斯受到梅兰修斯的侮辱——他被狗阿尔戈斯认出了——他受到侮辱，不久就被安提诺斯用凳子击打——佩内洛普希望他受到侮辱发送给她。
BOOK XVIII THE FIGHT WITH IRUS—ULYSSES WARNS AMPHINOMUS—PENELOPE GETS PRESENTS FROM THE SUITORS—THE BRAZIERS—ULYSSES REBUKES EURYMACHUS.
第十八卷 与伊鲁斯的战斗——尤利西斯警告安菲诺姆斯——佩内洛普从追求者——火盆人那里得到礼物——尤利西斯斥责欧律马科斯。
BOOK XIX TELEMACHUS AND ULYSSES REMOVE THE ARMOUR—ULYSSES INTERVIEWS PENELOPE—EURYCLEA WASHES HIS FEET AND RECOGNISES THE SCAR ON HIS LEG—PENELOPE TELLS HER DREAM TO ULYSSES.
第十九卷 忒勒马科斯和尤利西斯卸下铠甲——尤利西斯采访佩内洛普——尤里克莉亚洗脚并认出腿上的伤疤——佩内洛普向尤利西斯讲述她的梦。
BOOK XX ULYSSES CANNOT SLEEP—PENELOPE’S PRAYER TO DIANA—THE TWO SIGNS FROM HEAVEN—EUMAEUS AND PHILOETIUS ARRIVE—THE SUITORS DINE—CTESIPPUS THROWS AN OX’S FOOT AT ULYSSES—THEOCLYMENUS FORETELLS DISASTER AND LEAVES THE HOUSE.
第二十卷 尤利西斯睡不着——佩内洛普对戴安娜的祈祷——天国的两个征兆——尤迈乌斯和斐洛提乌斯到来——求婚者进餐——克特西普斯向尤利西斯踢牛脚——泰克利蒙预言灾难并离开家。
BOOK XXI THE TRIAL OF THE AXES, DURING WHICH ULYSSES REVEALS HIMSELF TO EUMAEUS AND PHILOETIUS
第二十一卷《斧头的审判》，在此期间尤利西斯向欧迈乌斯和斐洛提乌斯展示了自己的身份
BOOK XXII THE KILLING OF THE SUITORS—THE MAIDS WHO HAVE MISCONDUCTED THEMSELVES ARE MADE TO CLEANSE THE CLOISTERS AND ARE THEN HANGED.
第二十二卷 求婚者被杀——行为不端的女仆被强迫去清理修道院，然后被绞死。
BOOK XXIII PENELOPE EVENTUALLY RECOGNISES HER HUSBAND—EARLY IN THE MORNING ULYSSES, TELEMACHUS, EUMAEUS, AND PHILOETIUS LEAVE THE TOWN.
第二十三卷佩内洛普最终认出了她的丈夫——清晨，尤利西斯、忒勒马科斯、尤迈乌斯和菲洛提乌斯离开了小镇。
BOOK XXIV THE GHOSTS OF THE SUITORS IN HADES—ULYSSES AND HIS MEN GO TO THE HOUSE OF LAERTES—THE PEOPLE OF ITHACA COME OUT TO ATTACK ULYSSES, BUT MINERVA CONCLUDES A PEACE.
第二十四卷 哈迪斯求婚者的鬼魂——尤利西斯和他的部下前往莱尔提斯之家——伊萨卡的人们出来攻击尤利西斯，但密涅瓦缔结了和平。
Footnotes
脚注

The Odyssey
奥德赛

By Homer (Circa 700 BC)
作者：荷马（约公元前 700 年）

Translated by Samuel Butler
塞缪尔·巴特勒译

Preface to First Edition
第一版序言

This translation is intended to supplement a work entitled ‘The Authoress of the Odyssey’, which I published in 1897. I could not give the whole ‘Odyssey’ in that book without making it unwieldy, I therefore epitomised my translation, which was already completed and which I now publish in full.
此译本旨在补充我于 1897 年出版的《奥德赛》的女作者。我无法在这本书中完整地呈现《奥德赛》而不使其变得笨拙，因此我概括了我的翻译，该翻译已经完成我现在将其全文发布。

I shall not here argue the two main points dealt with in the work just mentioned; I have nothing either to add to, or to withdraw from, what I have there written. The points in question are:
我不会在这里争论刚才提到的工作中涉及的两个要点；我对我所写的内容没有任何补充或删除。问题点是：

(1) that the ‘Odyssey’ was written entirely at, and drawn entirely from, the place now called Trapani on the West Coast of Sicily, alike as regards the Phaeacian and the Ithaca scenes; while the voyages of Ulysses, when once he is within easy reach of Sicily, solve themselves into a periplus of the island, practically from Trapani back to Trapani, via the Lipari islands, the Straits of Messina, and the island of Pantellaria;
(1) 《奥德赛》完全是在西西里岛西海岸现称为特拉帕尼的地方写成并取材的，与费埃西亚和伊萨卡的场景相似；而尤利西斯的航行，一旦他可以轻松到达西西里岛，就解决了该岛的边缘，实际上是从特拉帕尼回到特拉帕尼，途经利帕里群岛、墨西拿海峡和潘特拉里亚岛。

(2) That the poem was entirely written by a very young woman, who lived at the place now called Trapani, and introduced herself into her work under the name of Nausicaa.
(2) 这首诗完全是由一位非常年轻的女士写的，她住在现在称为特拉帕尼的地方，并以娜乌西卡的名字介绍自己进入她的作品。

The main arguments on which I base the first of these somewhat startling contentions, have been prominently and repeatedly before the English and Italian public ever since they appeared (without rejoinder) in the ‘Athenaeum’ for January 30 and February 20, 1892. Both contentions were urged (also without rejoinder) in the Johnian ‘Eagle’ for the Lent and October terms of the same year. Nothing to which I should reply has reached me from any quarter, and knowing how anxiously I have endeavoured to learn the existence of any flaws in my argument, I begin to feel some confidence that, did such flaws exist, I should have heard, at any rate about some of them, before now. Without, therefore, for a moment pretending to think that scholars generally acquiesce in my conclusions, I shall act as thinking them little likely so to gainsay me as that it will be incumbent upon me to reply, and shall confine myself to translating the ‘Odyssey’ for English readers, with such notes as I think will be found useful. Among these I would especially call attention to one on xxii. 465-473 which Lord Grimthorpe has kindly allowed me to make public.
自从 1892 年 1 月 30 日和 2 月 20 日出现在“雅典娜神庙”（没有反驳）以来，我提出的第一个有点令人吃惊的论点的主要论点就一直在英国和意大利公众面前反复出现。在同年的四旬期和十月期间，约翰尼“鹰”中敦促（也没有反驳）。我从任何方面都没有收到任何我应该答复的内容，并且知道我是多么焦急地努力了解我的论点中是否存在任何缺陷，我开始感到有一些信心，如果存在这样的缺陷，我应该在在此之前，对其中一些有何评价？因此，暂时不要假装认为学者们普遍默许我的结论，我会表现得认为他们不太可能反驳我，因为我有责任做出答复，并且将仅限于翻译《奥德赛》对于英语读者来说，带有我认为有用的注释。其中我要特别提请注意 xxii 上的一项。 465-473，格里姆索普勋爵仁慈地允许我将其公开。

I have repeated several of the illustrations used in ‘The Authoress of the Odyssey’, and have added two which I hope may bring the outer court of Ulysses’ house more vividly before the reader. I should like to explain that the presence of a man and a dog in one illustration is accidental, and was not observed by me till I developed the negative. In an appendix I have also reprinted the paragraphs explanatory of the plan of Ulysses’ house, together with the plan itself. The reader is recommended to study this plan with some attention.
我重复了《奥德赛的女作者》中使用的几幅插图，并添加了两幅，希望能让读者更生动地看到尤利西斯宅邸的外院。我想解释一下，一张插图中出现的一个人和一只狗是偶然的，直到我拍出底片后我才注意到。在附录中，我还转载了解释尤利西斯之家平面图的段落以及平面图本身。建议读者认真研究该计划。

In the preface to my translation of the ‘Iliad’ I have given my views as to the main principles by which a translator should be guided, and need not repeat them here, beyond pointing out that the initial liberty of translating poetry into prose involves the continual taking of more or less liberty throughout the translation; for much that is right in poetry is wrong in prose, and the exigencies of readable prose are the first things to be considered in a prose translation. That the reader, however, may see how far I have departed from strict construe, I will print here Messrs. Butcher and Lang’s translation of the sixty lines or so of the ‘Odyssey.’ Their translation runs:
在我翻译《伊利亚特》的序言中，我已就译者应该遵循的主要原则提出了我的看法，这里无需重复，除了指出将诗歌翻译成散文的最初自由涉及到在整个翻译过程中不断采取或多或少的自由；因为诗歌中的很多正确的东西在散文中都是错误的，而可读散文的迫切需要是散文翻译中首先要考虑的事情。然而，为了读者可能会看到我偏离了严格的解释有多远，我将在这里打印布彻和朗先生对《奥德赛》六十行左右的翻译。他们的翻译如下：

Tell me, Muse, of that man, so ready at need, who wandered far and wide, after he had sacked the sacred citadel of Troy, and many were the men whose towns he saw and whose mind he learnt, yea, and many the woes he suffered in his heart on the deep, striving to win his own life and the return of his company. Nay, but even so he saved not his company, though he desired it sore. For through the blindness of their own hearts they perished, fools, who devoured the oxen of Helios Hyperion: but the god took from them their day of returning. Of these things, goddess, daughter of Zeus, whencesoever thou hast heard thereof, declare thou even unto us.
缪斯，告诉我那个人，他在需要时随时准备着，在洗劫了神圣的特洛伊城堡后，他四处流浪，他看到了许多城镇，了解了他们的思想，是的，还有许多人他内心深处承受着苦难，努力争取自己的生命和公司的回报。不，但即便如此，他也没有拯救他的公司，尽管他非常渴望它。因为他们愚昧无知，吃了赫利俄斯海伯利安的牛，结果因为自己内心的盲目而灭亡了：但是神却夺走了他们归来的日子。关于这些事情，女神，宙斯的女儿，无论您何时听说过这些事情，请向我们宣告。

Now all the rest, as many as fled from sheer destruction, were at home, and had escaped both war and sea, but Odysseus only, craving for his wife and for his homeward path, the lady nymph Calypso held, that fair goddess, in her hollow caves, longing to have him for her lord. But when now the year had come in the courses of the seasons, wherein the gods had ordained that he should return home to Ithaca, not even there was he quit of labours, not even among his own; but all the gods had pity on him save Poseidon, who raged continually against godlike Odysseus, till he came to his own country. Howbeit Poseidon had now departed for the distant Ethiopians, the Ethiopians that are sundered in twain, the uttermost of men, abiding some where Hyperion sinks and some where he rises. There he looked to receive his hecatomb of bulls and rams, there he made merry sitting at the feast, but the other gods were gathered in the halls of Olympian Zeus. Then among them the father of men and gods began to speak, for he bethought him in his heart of noble Aegisthus, whom the son of Agamemnon, far-famed Orestes, slew. Thinking upon him he spake out among the Immortals:
现在，所有其他人，无论是逃离彻底毁灭的人，都在家里，逃离了战争和大海，但只有奥德修斯渴望他的妻子和回家的道路，女神卡吕普索抓住了那位美丽的女神，在她空洞的洞穴，渴望他成为她的主人。然而，当一年又到了，诸神已命定他要返回伊萨卡的家时，他却没有放弃自己的劳动，甚至连他自己的劳动也没有放弃。但除了波塞冬之外，诸神都怜悯他，波塞冬不断地对神圣的奥德修斯发怒，直到他回到自己的祖国。然而波塞冬现在已经启程前往遥远的埃塞俄比亚人，埃塞俄比亚人被分成两半，是人类的极限，有些人住在海伯利安沉没的地方，有些人住在他升起的地方。他在那里期待着接收他的公牛和公羊的大屠杀，在那里他坐在宴会上欢乐，但其他神都聚集在奥林匹亚宙斯的大厅里。然后，人类和众神的父亲开始在他们中间说话，因为他心中想起了高贵的埃吉斯托斯，他是阿伽门农的儿子，著名的俄瑞斯忒斯杀死的。他一边想着他，一边在众仙中说道：

‘Lo you now, how vainly mortal men do blame the gods! For of us they say comes evil, whereas they even of themselves, through the blindness of their own hearts, have sorrows beyond that which is ordained. Even as of late Aegisthus, beyond that which was ordained, took to him the wedded wife of the son of Atreus, and killed her lord on his return, and that with sheer doom before his eyes, since we had warned him by the embassy of Hermes the keen-sighted, the slayer of Argos, that he should neither kill the man, nor woo his wife. For the son of Atreus shall be avenged at the hand of Orestes, so soon as he shall come to man’s estate and long for his own country. So spake Hermes, yet he prevailed not on the heart of Aegisthus, for all his good will; but now hath he paid one price for all.’
‘瞧，凡人责备众神是多么徒劳啊！因为他们说邪恶来自我们，而他们自己，由于自己内心的盲目，也有超出注定的悲伤。甚至到了晚期，埃吉斯托斯超越了预定的范围，娶了阿特柔斯之子的已婚妻子，并在他回来时杀死了她的主人，这在他眼前带来了纯粹的厄运，因为我们已经通过大使馆警告过他赫尔墨斯是目光敏锐的阿尔戈斯杀手，他既不应该杀死阿尔戈斯，也不应该向他的妻子求爱。因为阿特柔斯的儿子一旦来到人类的土地并渴望自己的国家，他就会在俄瑞斯忒斯的手中报仇。赫耳墨斯如此说道，但尽管埃吉斯托斯心怀善意，他却未能打动他的心。但现在他为这一切付出了同一个代价。

And the goddess, grey-eyed Athene, answered him, saying: ‘O father, our father Cronides, throned in the highest; that man assuredly lies in a death that is his due; so perish likewise all who work such deeds! But my heart is rent for wise Odysseus, the hapless one, who far from his friends this long while suffereth affliction in a sea-girt isle, where is the navel of the sea, a woodland isle, and therein a goddess hath her habitation, the daughter of the wizard Atlas, who knows the depths of every sea, and himself upholds the tall pillars which keep earth and sky asunder. His daughter it is that holds the hapless man in sorrow: and ever with soft and guileful tales she is wooing him to forgetfulness of Ithaca. But Odysseus yearning to see if it were but the smoke leap upwards from his own land, hath a desire to die. As for thee, thine heart regardeth it not at all, Olympian! What! Did not Odysseus by the ships of the Argives make thee free offering of sacrifice in the wide Trojan land? Wherefore wast thou then so wroth with him, O Zeus?’
灰眼睛的女神雅典娜回答他说：‘父亲啊，我们的父亲克罗尼德斯，坐在至高无上的宝座上；这个人确实已经死了，这是他应得的；所有从事此类行为的人都同样灭亡！但我的心为聪明的奥德修斯而伤痛，这个不幸的人，他远离他的朋友这么长时间，在一座环海小岛上受苦，那里是大海的肚脐，一座林地小岛，其中有一位女神居住着，巫师阿特拉斯的女儿，他知道每片海洋的深度，而他本人则支撑着分隔大地和天空的高大柱子。正是他的女儿让这个不幸的男人陷入悲伤：她总是用温柔而狡猾的故事吸引他忘记伊萨卡。但奥德修斯渴望看看这是否只是从他自己的土地上升起的烟雾，他一心想死。至于你，你的心根本不关心它，奥林匹斯山！什么！奥德修斯不是乘着阿尔戈斯人的船，让你在广阔的特洛伊土地上免费献祭吗？宙斯啊，你为何对他如此愤怒？

The ‘Odyssey’ (as every one knows) abounds in passages borrowed from the ‘Iliad”; I had wished to print these in a slightly different type, with marginal references to the ‘Iliad,’ and had marked them to this end in my MS. I found, however, that the translation would be thus hopelessly scholasticised, and abandoned my intention. I would nevertheless urge on those who have the management of our University presses, that they would render a great service to students if they would publish a Greek text of the ‘Odyssey’ with the Iliadic passages printed in a different type, and with marginal references. I have given the British Museum a copy of the ‘Odyssey’ with the Iliadic passages underlined and referred to in MS.; I have also given an ‘Iliad’ marked with all the Odyssean passages, and their references; but copies of both the ‘Iliad’ and ‘Odyssey’ so marked ought to be within easy reach of all students.
《奥德赛》（众所周知）有很多从《伊利亚特》借来的段落；我本来希望以稍微不同的字体打印这些内容，并在边缘引用《伊利亚特》，并在我的 MS 中对此进行了标记。然而，我发现这样的翻译将无可救药地学术化，于是放弃了我的初衷。尽管如此，我还是要敦促那些管理我们大学出版社的人，如果他们能出版《奥德赛》的希腊文本，其中伊利亚特段落以不同的字体印刷，并附有旁注，他们将为学生提供巨大的服务。 。我已经向大英博物馆赠送了一份《奥德赛》的副本，其中的《伊利亚特》段落在 MS 中做了下划线和提及；我还提供了一部《伊利亚特》，标有奥德赛的所有段落及其参考文献；但如此标记的《伊利亚特》和《奥德赛》的副本应该是所有学生都可以轻松获得的。

Any one who at the present day discusses the questions that have arisen round the ‘Iliad’ since Wolf’s time, without keeping it well before his reader’s mind that the ‘Odyssey’ was demonstrably written from one single neighbourhood, and hence (even though nothing else pointed to this conclusion) presumably by one person only—that it was written certainly before 750, and in all probability before 1000 B.C.—that the writer of this very early poem was demonstrably familiar with the ‘Iliad’ as we now have it, borrowing as freely from those books whose genuineness has been most impugned, as from those which are admitted to be by Homer—any one who fails to keep these points before his readers, is hardly dealing equitably by them. Any one on the other hand, who will mark his ‘Iliad’ and his ‘Odyssey’ from the copies in the British Museum above referred to, and who will draw the only inference that common sense can draw from the presence of so many identical passages in both poems, will, I believe, find no difficulty in assigning their proper value to a large number of books here and on the Continent that at present enjoy considerable reputations. Furthermore, and this perhaps is an advantage better worth securing, he will find that many puzzles of the ‘Odyssey’ cease to puzzle him on the discovery that they arise from over-saturation with the ‘Iliad.’
当今任何一个人，在讨论自沃尔夫时代以来围绕《伊利亚特》出现的问题时，却没有让读者清楚地意识到，《奥德赛》显然是从一个街区写成的，因此（尽管没有其他任何事情）指出了这个结论）大概只有一个人——它肯定写于公元前 750 年之前，很可能是公元前 1000 年之前——这首早期诗的作者显然熟悉我们现在所拥有的《伊利亚特》，借用就像不受那些真实性最受质疑的书一样，也不受荷马承认的那些书的影响——任何人如果不能在读者面前记住这些观点，就很难公平地对待它们。另一方面，任何人都会从上面提到的大英博物馆的副本中标记他的《伊利亚特》和他的《奥德赛》，并且会从这么多相同段落的存在中得出常识可以得出的唯一推论我相信，在这两首诗中，我们会毫不费力地为这里和欧洲大陆目前享有相当声誉的大量书籍赋予其应有的价值。此外，这也许是一个更值得确保的优势，他会发现《奥德赛》的许多谜题不再让他困惑，因为他发现它们是由于《伊利亚特》的过度饱和而产生的。

Other difficulties will also disappear as soon as the development of the poem in the writer’s mind is understood. I have dealt with this at some length in pp. 251-261 of ‘The Authoress of the Odyssey”. Briefly, the ‘Odyssey’ consists of two distinct poems: (1) The Return of Ulysses, which alone the Muse is asked to sing in the opening lines of the poem. This poem includes the Phaeacian episode, and the account of Ulysses’ adventures as told by himself in Books ix.-xii. It consists of lines 1-79 (roughly) of Book i., of line 28 of Book v., and thence without intermission to the middle of line 187 of Book xiii., at which point the original scheme was abandoned.
一旦理解了这首诗在作者心中的发展，其他困难也会消失。我在《奥德赛的女作者》第 251-261 页中详细讨论了这个问题。简而言之，《奥德赛》由两首不同的诗组成：（1）《尤利西斯归来》，只有缪斯被要求在诗的开头唱出这首诗。这首诗包括费阿克亚情节，以及尤利西斯在第九至十二书中讲述的他自己的冒险经历。它由第一册第 1-79 行（大致）、第五册第 28 行组成，然后不间断地一直到第十三册第 187 行的中间，此时原始方案被放弃。

(2) The story of Penelope and the suitors, with the episode of Telemachus’ voyage to Pylos. This poem begins with line 80 (roughly) of Book i., is continued to the end of Book iv., and not resumed till Ulysses wakes in the middle of line 187, Book xiii., from whence it continues to the end of Book xxiv.
（2）佩内洛普和求婚者的故事，以特勒马科斯前往皮洛斯的航行为插曲。这首诗从第一卷第 80 行（大致）开始，一直延续到第四卷的结尾，直到第十三卷第 187 行中间的《尤利西斯》醒来才继续，从那里继续到第四卷的结尾二十四.

In ‘The Authoress of the Odyssey’, I wrote:
我在《奥德赛的女作家》中写道：

the introduction of lines xi., 115-137 and of line ix., 535, with the writing a new council of the gods at the beginning of Book v., to take the place of the one that was removed to Book i., 1-79, were the only things that were done to give even a semblance of unity to the old scheme and the new, and to conceal the fact that the Muse, after being asked to sing of one subject, spend two-thirds of her time in singing a very different one, with a climax for which no-one has asked her. For roughly the Return occupies eight Books, and Penelope and the Suitors sixteen.
引入第 xi., 115-137 行和第 ix., 535 行，并在第五卷开头编写了一个新的众神议会，以取代第一卷中删除的内容， 1-79，是唯一为了给旧计划和新计划提供表面上的统一而所做的事情，并掩盖了这样一个事实：缪斯在被要求唱一个主题后，花了三分之二的时间是时候唱一首完全不同的歌了，没有人要求她达到高潮。 《归来》大约占据了八本书，《佩内洛普与追求者》占据了十六本书。

I believe this to be substantially correct.
我相信这基本上是正确的。

Lastly, to deal with a very unimportant point, I observe that the Leipsic Teubner edition of 894 makes Books ii. and iii. end with a comma. Stops are things of such far more recent date than the ‘Odyssey,’ that there does not seem much use in adhering to the text in so small a matter; still, from a spirit of mere conservatism, I have preferred to do so. Why [Greek] at the beginnings of Books ii. and viii., and [Greek], at the beginning of Book vii. should have initial capitals in an edition far too careful to admit a supposition of inadvertence, when [Greek] at the beginning of Books vi. and xiii., and [Greek] at the beginning of Book xvii. have no initial capitals, I cannot determine. No other Books of the ‘Odyssey’ have initial capitals except the three mentioned unless the first word of the Book is a proper name.
最后，为了处理一个非常不重​​要的问题，我观察到莱比锡托伊布纳版本的 894 制作了 Books ii。和 iii.以逗号结尾。停顿是比《奥德赛》更新得多的事情，因此在如此小的问题上遵守文本似乎没有多大用处。尽管如此，出于纯粹的保守主义精神，我还是更愿意这样做。为什么 [希腊语] 出现在本书的开头 ii。和 viii.，以及[希腊语]，在第七卷的开头。当[希腊语]出现在第六卷的开头时，版本中应该有首字母大写，过于谨慎，以至于不能承认疏忽的假设。和第十三卷，以及第十七卷开头的[希腊语]。没有初始资本，我无法确定。除上述三本书外，《奥德赛》的其他书籍均没有首字母大写，除非该书的第一个单词是专有名称。

S. BUTLER.
S·巴特勒。

July 25, 1900.
1900 年 7 月 25 日。

Preface to Second Edition
第二版序言

Butler’s Translation of the ‘Odyssey’ appeared originally in 1900, and The Authoress of the Odyssey in 1897. In the preface to the new edition of ‘The Authoress’, which is published simultaneously with this new edition of the Translation, I have given some account of the genesis of the two books.
巴特勒的《奥德赛》译本最初出版于 1900 年，《奥德赛的女作者》最初出版于 1897 年。在与新译本同时出版的新版《女作家》的序言中，我给出了一些讲述了两本书的起源。

The size of the original page has been reduced so as to make both books uniform with Butler’s other works; and, fortunately, it has been possible, by using a smaller type, to get the same number of words into each page, so that the references remain good, and, with the exception of a few minor alterations and rearrangements now to be enumerated so far as they affect the Translation, the new editions are faithful reprints of the original editions, with misprints and obvious errors corrected— no attempt having been made to edit them or to bring them up to date.
原版页面的尺寸已缩小，以使两本书与巴特勒的其他作品保持一致；幸运的是，通过使用较小的字体，可以在每页中输入相同数量的单词，从而使参考文献保持良好状态，并且，除了现在要列举的一些细微的更改和重新排列之外，就其影响译本而言，新版本是原版本的忠实重印，纠正了印刷错误和明显错误——没有尝试对其进行编辑或更新。

(a) The Index has been revised.
(a) 指数已修订。

(b) Owing to the reduction in the size of the page it has been necessary to shorten some of the headlines, and here advantage has been taken of various corrections of and additions to the headlines and shoulder-notes made by Butler in his own copies of the two books.
(b) 由于页面尺寸的缩小，有必要缩短一些标题，这里利用了巴特勒在他自己的副本中对标题和附注所做的各种更正和补充两本书中的。

(c) For the most part each of the illustrations now occupies a page, whereas in the original editions they generally appeared two on the page. It has been necessary to reduce the plan of the House of Ulysses.
(c) 大多数情况下，每个插图现在占据一页，而在原始版本中，它们通常在一页上出现两个。有必要缩小尤利西斯之家的计划。

On page 153 of ‘The Authoress’ Butler says: ‘No great poet would compare his hero to a paunch full of blood and fat, cooking before the fire (xx, 24-28).’ This passage is not given in the abridged Story of the ‘Odyssey’ at the beginning of the book, but in the Translation it occurs in these words:
在《女作家》的第 153 页，巴特勒说道：“没有哪个伟大的诗人会把他的英雄比作一个充满血和脂肪的大肚子，在火前做饭（xx，24-28）。”这段话在删节的故事中没有给出。本书开头提到的《奥德赛》，但在译本中却出现了这样的话：

‘Thus he chided with his heart, and checked it into endurance, but he tossed about as one who turns a paunch full of blood and fat in front of a hot fire, doing it first on one side then on the other, that he may get it cooked as soon as possible; even so did he turn himself about from side to side, thinking all the time how, singlehanded as he was, he should contrive to kill so large a body of men as the wicked suitors.’
于是他内心责备，并检查其忍耐力，但他像一个在热火前翻转充满血和脂肪的肚子的人一样翻来覆去，先在一侧，然后在另一侧，以便他可以尽快煮熟；即便如此，他还是左右翻身，一直在想，尽管他是一个人，他应该如何设法杀死像邪恶的求婚者这样一大群人。

It looks as though in the interval between the publication of ‘The Authoress’ (1897) and of the Translation (1900) Butler had changed his mind; for in the first case the comparison is between Ulysses and a paunch full, etc., and in the second it is between Ulysses and a man who turns a paunch full, etc. The second comparison is perhaps one which a great poet might make.
看起来，在《女作家》（1897年）和《翻译》（1900年）出版之间的间隔里，巴特勒改变了主意。因为在第一种情况下，比较是在《尤利西斯》和一个大肚子之间进行比较，等等，在第二种情况下，是在《尤利西斯》和一个把肚子变满的人之间进行比较。第二种比较也许是一位伟大诗人可能会做出的比较。

In seeing the works through the press I have had the invaluable assistance of Mr. A. T. Bartholomew of the University Library, Cambridge, and of Mr. Donald S. Robertson, Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge. To both these friends I give my most cordial thanks for the care and skill exercised by them. Mr. Robertson has found time for the labour of checking and correcting all the quotations from and references to the ‘Iliad’ and ‘Odyssey,’ and I believe that it could not have been better performed. It was, I know, a pleasure for him; and it would have been a pleasure also for Butler if he could have known that his work was being shepherded by the son of his old friend, Mr. H. R. Robertson, who more than half a century ago was a fellow-student with him at Cary’s School of Art in Streatham Street, Bloomsbury.
在通过媒体阅读这些作品时，我得到了剑桥大学图书馆的 A. T. Bartholomew 先生和剑桥三一学院研究员 Donald S. Robertson 先生的宝贵帮助。对于这两位朋友的关心和技巧，我致以最诚挚的谢意。罗伯逊先生抽出时间来检查和纠正《伊利亚特》和《奥德赛》的所有引文和参考文献，我相信这是再好不过的了。我知道，这对他来说是一种乐趣。如果巴特勒知道他的工作是由他的老朋友 H. R. 罗伯逊先生的儿子来指导的，他也会很高兴，半个多世纪前，罗伯逊先生是他在卡里学院的同学。艺术学院位于布鲁姆斯伯里斯特里汉姆街。

HENRY FESTING JONES.
亨利·费斯汀·琼斯。

120 MAIDA VALE, W.9.
120 麦达维尔，W.9。

4th December, 1921.
1921 年 12 月 4 日。

BOOK I
第一本书

THE GODS IN COUNCIL—MIVERVA’S VISIT TO ITHACA—THE CHALLENGE FROM TELEMACHUS TO THE SUITORS.
众神会议——米维尔瓦对伊萨卡的访问——忒勒马科斯对追求者的挑战。

Tell me, O Muse, of that ingenious hero who travelled far and wide after he had sacked the famous town of Troy. Many cities did he visit, and many were the nations with whose manners and customs he was acquainted; moreover he suffered much by sea while trying to save his own life and bring his men safely home; but do what he might he could not save his men, for they perished through their own sheer folly in eating the cattle of the Sun-god Hyperion; so the god prevented them from ever reaching home. Tell me, too, about all these things, oh daughter of Jove, from whatsoever source you may know them.
缪斯啊，告诉我那位聪明的英雄在洗劫了著名的特洛伊城后走遍了世界各地。他访问了许多城市，也熟悉了许多国家的风俗习惯。此外，他在海上遭受了很多痛苦，同时试图挽救自己的生命并带他的部下安全回家。但无论他做什么，他都无法拯救他的部下，因为他们因为吃了太阳神亥伯利安的牲畜而丧命。所以上帝阻止他们回家。哦，朱庇特的女儿，也请告诉我所有这些事情，无论你从哪里知道它们。

So now all who escaped death in battle or by shipwreck had got safely home except Ulysses, and he, though he was longing to return to his wife and country, was detained by the goddess Calypso, who had got him into a large cave and wanted to marry him. But as years went by, there came a time when the gods settled that he should go back to Ithaca; even then, however, when he was among his own people, his troubles were not yet over; nevertheless all the gods had now begun to pity him except Neptune, who still persecuted him without ceasing and would not let him get home.
现在，除了尤利西斯之外，所有在战斗或海难中逃脱死亡的人都安全回家了，而他，尽管他渴望回到他的妻子和国家，却被女神卡吕普索拘留，她把他带进一个大山洞并通缉嫁给他。但随着岁月的流逝，有一天，众神决定让他返回伊萨卡。然而，即便如此，当他回到自己的人民身边时，他的麻烦还没有结束。然而现在众神都开始怜悯他，除了海王星，海王星仍然不断地迫害他，不让他回家。

Now Neptune had gone off to the Ethiopians, who are at the world’s end, and lie in two halves, the one looking West and the other East. {1} He had gone there to accept a hecatomb of sheep and oxen, and was enjoying himself at his festival; but the other gods met in the house of Olympian Jove, and the sire of gods and men spoke first. At that moment he was thinking of Aegisthus, who had been killed by Agamemnon’s son Orestes; so he said to the other gods:
现在海王星已经飞向埃塞俄比亚人了，他们位于世界的尽头，分为两半，一个朝西，另一个朝东。 {1} 他去那里接受了一大堆牛羊，并在节日中享受着乐趣；但其他诸神在奥林匹亚朱庇特的殿堂里相遇，众神和人类的祖先首先发言。此刻他想起了被阿伽门农的儿子俄瑞斯忒斯杀死的埃吉斯托斯。于是他对其他诸神说：

‘See now, how men lay blame upon us gods for what is after all nothing but their own folly. Look at Aegisthus; he must needs make love to Agamemnon’s wife unrighteously and then kill Agamemnon, though he knew it would be the death of him; for I sent Mercury to warn him not to do either of these things, inasmuch as Orestes would be sure to take his revenge when he grew up and wanted to return home. Mercury told him this in all good will but he would not listen, and now he has paid for everything in full.’
‘现在看看，人们如何把责任归咎于我们诸神，毕竟这只是他们自己的愚蠢行为。看看埃吉斯托斯；他必须不义地与阿伽门农的妻子做爱，然后杀死阿伽门农，尽管他知道这将是他的死亡；因为我派墨丘利警告他不要做这两件事，因为奥瑞斯忒斯长大后想回家时一定会报仇。水星善意地告诉他这件事，但他不听，现在他已经全额支付了一切。

Then Minerva said, ‘Father, son of Saturn, King of kings, it served Aegisthus right, and so it would any one else who does as he did; but Aegisthus is neither here nor there; it is for Ulysses that my heart bleeds, when I think of his sufferings in that lonely sea-girt island, far away, poor man, from all his friends. It is an island covered with forest, in the very middle of the sea, and a goddess lives there, daughter of the magician Atlas, who looks after the bottom of the ocean, and carries the great columns that keep heaven and earth asunder. This daughter of Atlas has got hold of poor unhappy Ulysses, and keeps trying by every kind of blandishment to make him forget his home, so that he is tired of life, and thinks of nothing but how he may once more see the smoke of his own chimneys. You, sir, take no heed of this, and yet when Ulysses was before Troy did he not propitiate you with many a burnt sacrifice? Why then should you keep on being so angry with him?’
然后密涅瓦说道：“父亲，萨图恩之子，万王之王，这对埃吉斯托斯来说是正确的，任何其他效仿他所做的人也将如此；”但埃吉斯托斯既不在这里也不在那里；当我想到尤利西斯在那个远离他所有朋友的孤寂环海岛屿上所受的苦难时，我的心为尤利西斯流血。这是一座位于大海正中央、森林覆盖的岛屿，那里居住着一位女神，她是魔法师阿特拉斯的女儿，她掌管着海底，掌管着分隔天地的巨柱。阿特拉斯的女儿抓住了可怜的、不幸的尤利西斯，不断地用各种甜言蜜语让他忘记自己的家，以致他厌倦了生活，只想着如何才能再次看到他家的硝烟。自己的烟囱。先生，您对此毫不在意，然而，当尤利西斯在特洛伊之前，他不是用许多燔祭来安抚您吗？那么你为什么还要继续生他的气呢？

And Jove said, ‘My child, what are you talking about? How can I forget Ulysses than whom there is no more capable man on earth, nor more liberal in his offerings to the immortal gods that live in heaven? Bear in mind, however, that Neptune is still furious with Ulysses for having blinded an eye of Polyphemus king of the Cyclopes. Polyphemus is son to Neptune by the nymph Thoosa, daughter to the sea-king Phorcys; therefore though he will not kill Ulysses outright, he torments him by preventing him from getting home. Still, let us lay our heads together and see how we can help him to return; Neptune will then be pacified, for if we are all of a mind he can hardly stand out against us.’
朱庇特说：‘我的孩子，你在说什么？我怎能忘记尤利西斯，世上没有人比他更能干，也没有人比他更慷慨地向天上不朽的众神献祭呢？然而请记住，海王星仍然对尤利西斯感到愤怒，因为尤利西斯弄瞎了独眼巨人波吕斐摩斯的眼睛。波吕斐摩斯是尼普顿与海王福尔库斯的女儿海中仙女图萨所生的儿子。因此，尽管他不会直接杀死尤利西斯，但却阻止他回家来折磨他。不过，让我们一起来思考如何帮助他回归吧；然后海王星就会平静下来，因为如果我们都有头脑，他就很难与我们对抗。

And Minerva said, ‘Father, son of Saturn, King of kings, if, then, the gods now mean that Ulysses should get home, we should first send Mercury to the Ogygian island to tell Calypso that we have made up our minds and that he is to return. In the meantime I will go to Ithaca, to put heart into Ulysses’ son Telemachus; I will embolden him to call the Achaeans in assembly, and speak out to the suitors of his mother Penelope, who persist in eating up any number of his sheep and oxen; I will also conduct him to Sparta and to Pylos, to see if he can hear anything about the return of his dear father—for this will make people speak well of him.’
密涅瓦说：“父亲，萨图恩之子，万王之王，如果众神现在想让尤利西斯回家，我们应该首先派墨丘利到奥吉吉亚岛去告诉卡吕普索我们已经决定了，并且他要回来了。与此同时，我将前往伊萨卡，给尤利西斯的儿子忒勒马科斯以信心。我会鼓励他召集亚该亚人集会，并向他母亲佩内洛普的追求者们大声疾呼，因为他们坚持吃掉他的任何数量的羊和牛；我还要带他去斯巴达和皮洛斯，看看他是否能听到有关他亲爱的父亲回来的消息——因为这会让人们称赞他。

So saying she bound on her glittering golden sandals, imperishable, with which she can fly like the wind over land or sea; she grasped the redoubtable bronze-shod spear, so stout and sturdy and strong, wherewith she quells the ranks of heroes who have displeased her, and down she darted from the topmost summits of Olympus, whereon forthwith she was in Ithaca, at the gateway of Ulysses’ house, disguised as a visitor, Mentes, chief of the Taphians, and she held a bronze spear in her hand. There she found the lordly suitors seated on hides of the oxen which they had killed and eaten, and playing draughts in front of the house. Men-servants and pages were bustling about to wait upon them, some mixing wine with water in the mixing-bowls, some cleaning down the tables with wet sponges and laying them out again, and some cutting up great quantities of meat.
说着，她穿上了那双闪闪发光的金色凉鞋，不朽的，她可以像风一样飞过陆地或海洋；她抓住了那把令人敬畏的青铜长矛，如此粗壮、坚固和强大，她用它平息了那些令她不高兴的英雄队伍，然后她从奥林匹斯山的最高峰冲了下来，很快她就来到了伊萨卡，在伊萨卡，在尤利西斯的家中，伪装成访客的塔菲亚族首领门特斯，她手中握着青铜长矛。在那里，她发现那些高贵的求婚者坐在他们宰杀吃掉的牛皮上，在屋前玩跳棋。男仆和侍童忙着伺候他们，有的在搅拌碗里搅拌酒和水，有的用湿海绵把桌子擦干净再摆好，还有的在切大量的肉。

Telemachus saw her long before any one else did. He was sitting moodily among the suitors thinking about his brave father, and how he would send them flying out of the house, if he were to come to his own again and be honoured as in days gone by. Thus brooding as he sat among them, he caught sight of Minerva and went straight to the gate, for he was vexed that a stranger should be kept waiting for admittance. He took her right hand in his own, and bade her give him her spear. ‘Welcome,’ said he, ‘to our house, and when you have partaken of food you shall tell us what you have come for.’
忒勒马科斯比其他人早看到她。他闷闷不乐地坐在求婚者中间，想着他勇敢的父亲，想着如果他能再次回到自己的家，并像过去那样受到尊重，他将如何把他们飞出房子。当他坐在他们中间沉思时，他看到了密涅瓦，然后径直走向大门，因为他很恼火让一个陌生人等待入场。他握住她的右手，请她把矛交给他。 “欢迎，”他说，“到我们家来，吃完饭后，请告诉我们你来这里的目的。”

He led the way as he spoke, and Minerva followed him. When they were within he took her spear and set it in the spear-stand against a strong bearing-post along with the many other spears of his unhappy father, and he conducted her to a richly decorated seat under which he threw a cloth of damask. There was a footstool also for her feet,{2} and he set another seat near her for himself, away from the suitors, that she might not be annoyed while eating by their noise and insolence, and that he might ask her more freely about his father.
说话间他在前面带路，米勒娃跟在他身后。当他们进来时，他把她的矛和他不幸的父亲的许多其他矛一起放在矛架上，靠在一个坚固的轴承柱上，然后他把她领到一个装饰华丽的座位上，在下面扔了一块锦缎布。 。还有一个供她脚用的脚凳，{2}他在她附近为自己设置了另一个座位，远离求婚者，这样她吃饭时就不会因为他们的噪音和无礼而恼火，而且他可以更自由地向她询问有关的事情。他的父亲。

A maid servant then brought them water in a beautiful golden ewer and poured it into a silver basin for them to wash their hands, and she drew a clean table beside them. An upper servant brought them bread, and offered them many good things of what there was in the house, the carver fetched them plates of all manner of meats and set cups of gold by their side, and a manservant brought them wine and poured it out for them.
然后，一个女仆用一个漂亮的金壶给他们端来水，倒进一个银盆里，让他们洗手，并在他们旁边拉了一张干净的桌子。一个上层仆人给他们带来了面包，并给他们提供了家里所有的许多好东西，雕刻师给他们拿来了各种各样的肉，并在他们旁边放了金杯，一个仆人给他们带来了酒，并倒了酒。对于他们来说。

Then the suitors came in and took their places on the benches and seats. {3} Forthwith men servants poured water over their hands, maids went round with the bread-baskets, pages filled the mixing-bowls with wine and water, and they laid their hands upon the good things that were before them. As soon as they had had enough to eat and drink they wanted music and dancing, which are the crowning embellishments of a banquet, so a servant brought a lyre to Phemius, whom they compelled perforce to sing to them. As soon as he touched his lyre and began to sing Telemachus spoke low to Minerva, with his head close to hers that no man might hear.
然后求婚者进来，在长凳和座位上就座。 {3}男人仆人立即将水倒在他们的手上，女仆提着面包篮走来走去，仆人将酒和水装满搅拌碗，他们把手放在他们面前的好东西上。当他们吃饱喝足后，他们就想要音乐和舞蹈，这是宴会的最重要的装饰，于是一个仆人给菲米乌斯带来了一把七弦琴，他们强迫他唱歌给他们听。当他触碰竖琴并开始唱歌时，特勒马科斯就对密涅瓦低声说话，他的头靠近她的头，没有人能听到。

‘I hope, sir,’ said he, ‘that you will not be offended with what I am going to say. Singing comes cheap to those who do not pay for it, and all this is done at the cost of one whose bones lie rotting in some wilderness or grinding to powder in the surf. If these men were to see my father come back to Ithaca they would pray for longer legs rather than a longer purse, for money would not serve them; but he, alas, has fallen on an ill fate, and even when people do sometimes say that he is coming, we no longer heed them; we shall never see him again. And now, sir, tell me and tell me true, who you are and where you come from. Tell me of your town and parents, what manner of ship you came in, how your crew brought you to Ithaca, and of what nation they declared themselves to be—for you cannot have come by land. Tell me also truly, for I want to know, are you a stranger to this house, or have you been here in my father’s time? In the old days we had many visitors for my father went about much himself.’
“我希望，先生，”他说，“我接下来说的话不会冒犯你。对于那些不付钱的人来说，唱歌是很便宜的，而这一切的代价是一个人的骨头在荒野中腐烂或在海浪中磨成粉末。如果这些人看到我父亲回到伊萨卡，他们会祈祷更长的腿，而不是更长的钱包，因为金钱对他们不起作用；但可惜的是，他命运多舛，甚至当人们有时说他要来时，我们也不再理睬他们。我们再也见不到他了。现在，先生，请诚实地告诉我，你是谁，你来自哪里。告诉我你的城镇和父母的情况，你乘什么船来的，你的船员如何把你带到伊萨卡，以及他们声称自己属于哪个国家——因为你不可能通过陆路来的。请诚实地告诉我，因为我想知道，你是这所房子的陌生人，还是我父亲时代的你来过这里？过去，我们有很多访客，因为我父亲经常自己外出。

And Minerva answered, ‘I will tell you truly and particularly all about it. I am Mentes, son of Anchialus, and I am King of the Taphians. I have come here with my ship and crew, on a voyage to men of a foreign tongue being bound for Temesa {4} with a cargo of iron, and I shall bring back copper. As for my ship, it lies over yonder off the open country away from the town, in the harbour Rheithron {5} under the wooded mountain Neritum. {6} Our fathers were friends before us, as old Laertes will tell you, if you will go and ask him. They say, however, that he never comes to town now, and lives by himself in the country, faring hardly, with an old woman to look after him and get his dinner for him, when he comes in tired from pottering about his vineyard. They told me your father was at home again, and that was why I came, but it seems the gods are still keeping him back, for he is not dead yet not on the mainland. It is more likely he is on some sea-girt island in mid ocean, or a prisoner among savages who are detaining him against his will. I am no prophet, and know very little about omens, but I speak as it is borne in upon me from heaven, and assure you that he will not be away much longer; for he is a man of such resource that even though he were in chains of iron he would find some means of getting home again. But tell me, and tell me true, can Ulysses really have such a fine looking fellow for a son? You are indeed wonderfully like him about the head and eyes, for we were close friends before he set sail for Troy where the flower of all the Argives went also. Since that time we have never either of us seen the other.’
密涅瓦回答说：“我会真实地、特别地告诉你这一切。”我是门特斯，安基亚鲁斯之子，我是塔菲亚人的国王。我带着我的船和船员来到这里，正在一次航行中，带着一批铁船前往特梅萨{4}，我将带回铜。至于我的船，它位于远离城镇的开阔乡村，在树木繁茂的尼里图姆山下的 Rheithron {5} 港口。 {6}我们的父亲在我们之前就是朋友，老莱尔提斯会告诉你，如果你去问他的话。然而，他们说，他现在从不进城，独自生活在乡下，生活艰难，当他因在葡萄园里闲逛而疲惫不堪时，有一位老妇人照顾他并为他准备晚餐。他们告诉我你的父亲又在家了，所以我才来，但诸神似乎仍然阻止他回来，因为他还没死，还没到大陆。更有可能的是，他在大洋中央的某个环海岛屿上，或者是野蛮人中的囚犯，这些野蛮人违背他的意愿拘留了他。我不是先知，对预兆知之甚少，但我所说的是从天上降临到我身上的信息，并向你们保证，他不会离开太久。因为他是一个有资源的人，即使他戴着铁链，他也会找到一些回家的方法。但是请告诉我，实话实说，《尤利西斯》真的能有一个这么漂亮的儿子吗？你的头和眼睛确实非常像他，因为在他启航前往特洛伊之前我们是亲密的朋友，所有阿尔戈斯人的花朵也去了特洛伊。从那时起我们就再也没有见过对方。

‘My mother,’ answered Telemachus, ‘tells me I am son to Ulysses, but it is a wise child that knows his own father. Would that I were son to one who had grown old upon his own estates, for, since you ask me, there is no more ill-starred man under heaven than he who they tell me is my father.’
“我的母亲，”忒勒马科斯回答道，“告诉我，我是尤利西斯的儿子，但这是一个聪明的孩子，他认识自己的父亲。但愿我是一个在自己的庄园里变老的儿子，因为，既然你问我，天下没有比他们告诉我的父亲更倒霉的人了。

And Minerva said, ‘There is no fear of your race dying out yet, while Penelope has such a fine son as you are. But tell me, and tell me true, what is the meaning of all this feasting, and who are these people? What is it all about? Have you some banquet, or is there a wedding in the family—for no one seems to be bringing any provisions of his own? And the guests—how atrociously they are behaving; what riot they make over the whole house; it is enough to disgust any respectable person who comes near them.’
密涅瓦说：“不用担心你们的种族会灭绝，因为佩内洛普有一个像你这样优秀的儿子。”但是请告诉我，老实告诉我，所有这些盛宴的意义是什么？这些人是谁？这是什么一回事呢？你有宴会吗？或者家里有婚礼吗——因为似乎没有人自带任何食物？还有客人——他们的行为多么残暴；他们对整个房子造成了多么大的骚乱？这足以让任何接近他们的受人尊敬的人感到厌恶。

‘Sir,’ said Telemachus, ‘as regards your question, so long as my father was here it was well with us and with the house, but the gods in their displeasure have willed it otherwise, and have hidden him away more closely than mortal man was ever yet hidden. I could have borne it better even though he were dead, if he had fallen with his men before Troy, or had died with friends around him when the days of his fighting were done; for then the Achaeans would have built a mound over his ashes, and I should myself have been heir to his renown; but now the storm-winds have spirited him away we know not whither; he is gone without leaving so much as a trace behind him, and I inherit nothing but dismay. Nor does the matter end simply with grief for the loss of my father; heaven has laid sorrows upon me of yet another kind; for the chiefs from all our islands, Dulichium, Same, and the woodland island of Zacynthus, as also all the principal men of Ithaca itself, are eating up my house under the pretext of paying their court to my mother, who will neither point blank say that she will not marry, {7} nor yet bring matters to an end; so they are making havoc of my estate, and before long will do so also with myself.’
“先生，”忒勒马科斯说道，“至于你的问题，只要我父亲在这里，我们和这座房子就都过得很好，但是众神不高兴，却另有所图，把他藏得比凡人还严密。”人类从未被隐藏过。即使他已经死了，如果他和他的部下一起倒在特洛伊之前，或者当他的战斗结束时和他周围的朋友一起死去，我也能忍受得更好。因为那时，亚该亚人就会在他的骨灰上筑起一座土丘，而我本人也将成为他名声的继承人。但现在狂风把他吹走了，我们不知道他去了哪里。他走了，没有留下任何痕迹，我只继承了沮丧。事情也不仅仅以失去父亲的悲痛而结束。上天又给我带来了另一种悲伤；因为我们所有岛屿的首领，杜利奇乌姆岛、萨姆岛和扎辛苏斯岛的林地，以及伊萨卡岛本身的所有主要人物，都以向我母亲讨好为借口，正在吃掉我的房子，而我母亲也不会直言不讳。说她不会结婚，{7}也不会结束事情；所以他们正在对我的财产造成严重破坏，不久之后我也会这样做。”

‘Is that so?’ exclaimed Minerva, ‘then you do indeed want Ulysses home again. Give him his helmet, shield, and a couple of lances, and if he is the man he was when I first knew him in our house, drinking and making merry, he would soon lay his hands about these rascally suitors, were he to stand once more upon his own threshold. He was then coming from Ephyra, where he had been to beg poison for his arrows from Ilus, son of Mermerus. Ilus feared the ever-living gods and would not give him any, but my father let him have some, for he was very fond of him. If Ulysses is the man he then was these suitors will have a short shrift and a sorry wedding.
“是这样吗？”密涅瓦惊呼道，“那么你确实希望尤利西斯再次回家。把他的头盔、盾牌和几把长矛给他，如果他还是我第一次在我们家里认识他时的那个人，喝酒快乐，如果他站起来，他很快就会对这些无赖的追求者下手。再次踏上自己的门槛。当时他正从埃菲拉过来，在那里他向梅尔梅鲁斯之子伊鲁斯乞讨箭毒。伊卢斯害怕永生的神灵，不肯给他任何东西，但我父亲却给了他一些，因为他非常喜欢他。如果尤利西斯是那个人，那么这些追求者就会受到冷遇，并举行一场遗憾的婚礼。

‘But there! It rests with heaven to determine whether he is to return, and take his revenge in his own house or no; I would, however, urge you to set about trying to get rid of these suitors at once. Take my advice, call the Achaean heroes in assembly to-morrow morning—lay your case before them, and call heaven to bear you witness. Bid the suitors take themselves off, each to his own place, and if your mother’s mind is set on marrying again, let her go back to her father, who will find her a husband and provide her with all the marriage gifts that so dear a daughter may expect. As for yourself, let me prevail upon you to take the best ship you can get, with a crew of twenty men, and go in quest of your father who has so long been missing. Some one may tell you something, or (and people often hear things in this way) some heaven-sent message may direct you. First go to Pylos and ask Nestor; thence go on to Sparta and visit Menelaus, for he got home last of all the Achaeans; if you hear that your father is alive and on his way home, you can put up with the waste these suitors will make for yet another twelve months. If on the other hand you hear of his death, come home at once, celebrate his funeral rites with all due pomp, build a barrow to his memory, and make your mother marry again. Then, having done all this, think it well over in your mind how, by fair means or foul, you may kill these suitors in your own house. You are too old to plead infancy any longer; have you not heard how people are singing Orestes’ praises for having killed his father’s murderer Aegisthus? You are a fine, smart looking fellow; show your mettle, then, and make yourself a name in story. Now, however, I must go back to my ship and to my crew, who will be impatient if I keep them waiting longer; think the matter over for yourself, and remember what I have said to you.’
‘但是就在那里！他是否回来，到自己家里报仇，由天决定。然而，我强烈建议你立即着手摆脱这些追求者。听从我的建议，明天早上召集亚该亚英雄集会——把你的案子摆在他们面前，请上天为你作证。请求婚者各自离开，各就各位，如果你母亲决心再婚，就让她回到她父亲身边，他会为她找到一个丈夫，并为她提供所有结婚礼物。女儿可能会期待。至于你自己，让我说服你乘坐你能找到的最好的船，带着二十名船员，去寻找你失踪已久的父亲。有人可能会告诉你一些事情，或者（人们经常以这种方式听到事情）一些天赐的信息可能会指导你。首先去皮洛斯询问内斯特；然后前往斯巴达拜访墨涅拉俄斯，因为他是所有亚该亚人中最后一个回家的。如果你听说你的父亲还活着，正在回家的路上，你就可以再忍受这些求婚者造成的浪费十二个月了。另一方面，如果你听说他去世了，请立即回家，以应有的盛况庆祝他的葬礼，为他建造一座手推车以纪念他，并让你的母亲再结婚。然后，做完这一切之后，在心里好好想一想，你怎样才能以公平或不正当的手段，在你自己的家里杀死这些追求者。你已经老了，不能再以婴儿期为借口了；你没听说过人们如何歌颂俄瑞斯忒斯杀死了他父亲的凶手埃吉斯托斯吗？你是一个漂亮、聪明的小伙子；那么，展现你的勇气，让自己在故事中出名。 然而，现在我必须回到我的船和我的船员身边，如果我让他们等得更久，他们会不耐烦的；你自己考虑一下这件事，记住我对你说的话。’

‘Sir,’ answered Telemachus, ‘it has been very kind of you to talk to me in this way, as though I were your own son, and I will do all you tell me; I know you want to be getting on with your voyage, but stay a little longer till you have taken a bath and refreshed yourself. I will then give you a present, and you shall go on your way rejoicing; I will give you one of great beauty and value—a keepsake such as only dear friends give to one another.’
“先生，”忒勒马科斯回答道，“您对我这样说话真是太好了，就好像我是您自己的儿子一样，我会做您告诉我的一切；我知道您想继续航行，但请多呆一会儿，直到您洗完澡恢复精神。然后我会给你一份礼物，你就可以高高兴兴地上路了；我会给你一件非常美丽和有价值的东西——一件只有亲爱的朋友才会互相赠送的纪念品。

Minerva answered, ‘Do not try to keep me, for I would be on my way at once. As for any present you may be disposed to make me, keep it till I come again, and I will take it home with me. You shall give me a very good one, and I will give you one of no less value in return.’
密涅瓦回答说：“不要试图留住我，因为我会立即上路。”至于你愿意给我做的任何礼物，请保留它，直到我再来，我会把它带回家。你将给我一件非常好的礼物，我也会给你一件同样有价值的礼物作为回报。

With these words she flew away like a bird into the air, but she had given Telemachus courage, and had made him think more than ever about his father. He felt the change, wondered at it, and knew that the stranger had been a god, so he went straight to where the suitors were sitting.
说完这句话，她像小鸟一样飞向空中，但她给了特勒马科斯勇气，让他比以往任何时候都更加想起他的父亲。他感受到了这种变化，感到惊讶，知道这个陌生人是神，于是他径直走到了求婚者坐的地方。

Phemius was still singing, and his hearers sat rapt in silence as he told the sad tale of the return from Troy, and the ills Minerva had laid upon the Achaeans. Penelope, daughter of Icarius, heard his song from her room upstairs, and came down by the great staircase, not alone, but attended by two of her handmaids. When she reached the suitors she stood by one of the bearing posts that supported the roof of the cloisters {8} with a staid maiden on either side of her. She held a veil, moreover, before her face, and was weeping bitterly.
菲米乌斯仍在歌唱，他的听众全神贯注地安静地坐着，听他讲述从特洛伊回来的悲伤故事，以及密涅瓦对亚该亚人造成的祸害。伊卡里乌斯的女儿佩内洛普在楼上的房间里听到了他的歌声，从大楼梯下来，不是独自一人，而是有两个女仆陪伴。当她到达求婚者时，她站在支撑回廊屋顶的一根支柱旁{8}，她的两侧各有一位稳重的少女。而且，她还用面纱遮住脸，痛哭起来。

‘Phemius,’ she cried, ‘you know many another feat of gods and heroes, such as poets love to celebrate. Sing the suitors some one of these, and let them drink their wine in silence, but cease this sad tale, for it breaks my sorrowful heart, and reminds me of my lost husband whom I mourn ever without ceasing, and whose name was great over all Hellas and middle Argos.’ {9}
“菲米乌斯，”她喊道，“你知道众神和英雄的许多其他壮举，就像诗人喜欢庆祝的那样。为求婚者唱一首这样的歌，让他们静静地喝着酒，但请停止这个悲伤的故事，因为它伤了我悲伤的心，让我想起了我失去的丈夫，我永远不停地哀悼他，他的名字伟大所有希腊和中阿尔戈斯。'{9}

‘Mother,’ answered Telemachus, ‘let the bard sing what he has a mind to; bards do not make the ills they sing of; it is Jove, not they, who makes them, and who sends weal or woe upon mankind according to his own good pleasure. This fellow means no harm by singing the ill-fated return of the Danaans, for people always applaud the latest songs most warmly. Make up your mind to it and bear it; Ulysses is not the only man who never came back from Troy, but many another went down as well as he. Go, then, within the house and busy yourself with your daily duties, your loom, your distaff, and the ordering of your servants; for speech is man’s matter, and mine above all others {10}—for it is I who am master here.’
“母亲，”忒勒马科斯回答道，“让吟游诗人唱他想唱的歌吧；吟游诗人不会制造他们所歌颂的罪恶；创造它们的是朱庇特，而不是他们，并根据自己的意愿给人类带来福祉或灾难。这家伙唱着达南人的不幸归来并无恶意，因为人们总是对最新的歌曲给予最热烈的掌声。下定决心并承受；尤利西斯并不是唯一一个没有从特洛伊回来的人，还有许多人和他一样倒下。那么，到屋里去，忙于你的日常职责，你的织布机，你的纺纱机，以及你的仆人的命令；因为言语是人的事，而我的事高于一切{10}——因为我是这里的主人。

She went wondering back into the house, and laid her son’s saying in her heart. Then, going upstairs with her handmaids into her room, she mourned her dear husband till Minerva shed sweet sleep over her eyes. But the suitors were clamorous throughout the covered cloisters {11}, and prayed each one that he might be her bed fellow.
她疑惑地回到屋里，把儿子的话记在心里。然后，她和女仆一起上楼进入自己的房间，哀悼她亲爱的丈夫，直到米勒娃在她的眼睛上睡着了。但求婚者们在整个有顶棚的回廊里吵闹着{11}，每个人都祈祷他能成为她的同床异梦。

Then Telemachus spoke, ‘Shameless,’ he cried, ‘and insolent suitors, let us feast at our pleasure now, and let there be no brawling, for it is a rare thing to hear a man with such a divine voice as Phemius has; but in the morning meet me in full assembly that I may give you formal notice to depart, and feast at one another’s houses, turn and turn about, at your own cost. If on the other hand you choose to persist in spunging upon one man, heaven help me, but Jove shall reckon with you in full, and when you fall in my father’s house there shall be no man to avenge you.’
然后特勒马科斯说道：“无耻的，”他喊道，“无礼的求婚者们，现在就让我们尽情享受吧，别再吵架了，因为像菲米乌斯这样拥有如此神圣声音的人是很少见的。但早上在全体集会中与我会面，以便我正式通知你们出发，并在彼此的房子里享用一顿丰盛的晚餐，转来转去，费用由你们自己承担。另一方面，如果你选择坚持攻击一个人，上天会帮助我，但天神会完全算计你，当你倒在我父亲的房子里时，将没有人为你报仇。

The suitors bit their lips as they heard him, and marvelled at the boldness of his speech. Then, Antinous, son of Eupeithes, said, ‘The gods seem to have given you lessons in bluster and tall talking; may Jove never grant you to be chief in Ithaca as your father was before you.’
求婚者听了他的话，都咬着嘴唇，惊叹于他说话的大胆。然后，欧佩忒斯的儿子安提诺斯说：“众神似乎给了你咆哮和夸夸其谈的教训；愿天神永远不会让你成为伊萨卡岛的酋长，就像你的父亲在你之前一样。

Telemachus answered, ‘Antinous, do not chide with me, but, god willing, I will be chief too if I can. Is this the worst fate you can think of for me? It is no bad thing to be a chief, for it brings both riches and honour. Still, now that Ulysses is dead there are many great men in Ithaca both old and young, and some other may take the lead among them; nevertheless I will be chief in my own house, and will rule those whom Ulysses has won for me.’
忒勒马科斯回答说：“安提诺斯，别责备我，但是，如果可以的话，上帝愿意，我也愿意当酋长。”这是你能想到的对我来说最糟糕的命运吗？当酋长并不是坏事，因为它能带来财富和荣誉。不过，既然尤利西斯已经去世，伊萨卡岛还有许多年长和年轻的伟人，其中可能还有其他一些人在其中起带头作用。不过，我将成为我自己家族的首领，并统治那些尤利西斯为我赢得的人。

Then Eurymachus, son of Polybus, answered, ‘It rests with heaven to decide who shall be chief among us, but you shall be master in your own house and over your own possessions; no one while there is a man in Ithaca shall do you violence nor rob you. And now, my good fellow, I want to know about this stranger. What country does he come from? Of what family is he, and where is his estate? Has he brought you news about the return of your father, or was he on business of his own? He seemed a well to do man, but he hurried off so suddenly that he was gone in a moment before we could get to know him.’
波吕波斯的儿子欧律马科斯回答说：“我们之中谁为首领是由上天决定的，但你将成为你自己的房屋和财产的主人。当伊萨卡有人的时候，任何人都不会暴力对待你，也不会抢劫你。现在，我的好朋友，我想了解这个陌生人。他来自哪个国家？他是什么家族的人，他的财产在哪里？他给你带来了你父亲回来的消息，还是他有自己的事？他看起来是个很有钱的人，但他走得太突然，我们还没来得及认识他，他就走了。

‘My father is dead and gone,’ answered Telemachus, ‘and even if some rumour reaches me I put no more faith in it now. My mother does indeed sometimes send for a soothsayer and question him, but I give his prophecyings no heed. As for the stranger, he was Mentes, son of Anchialus, chief of the Taphians, an old friend of my father’s.’ But in his heart he knew that it had been the goddess.
“我的父亲已经去世了，”忒勒马科斯回答道，“即使我听到了一些谣言，我现在也不再相信它了。”我母亲有时确实会派人去找占卜者询问他，但我对他的预言不予理睬。至于那个陌生人，他是塔菲亚人首领安基亚鲁斯的儿子门特斯，也是我父亲的老朋友。”但他心里知道那是女神。

The suitors then returned to their singing and dancing until the evening; but when night fell upon their pleasuring they went home to bed each in his own abode. {12} Telemachus’s room was high up in a tower {13} that looked on to the outer court; hither, then, he hied, brooding and full of thought. A good old woman, Euryclea, daughter of Ops, the son of Pisenor, went before him with a couple of blazing torches. Laertes had bought her with his own money when she was quite young; he gave the worth of twenty oxen for her, and shewed as much respect to her in his household as he did to his own wedded wife, but he did not take her to his bed for he feared his wife’s resentment. {14} She it was who now lighted Telemachus to his room, and she loved him better than any of the other women in the house did, for she had nursed him when he was a baby. He opened the door of his bed room and sat down upon the bed; as he took off his shirt {15} he gave it to the good old woman, who folded it tidily up, and hung it for him over a peg by his bed side, after which she went out, pulled the door to by a silver catch, and drew the bolt home by means of the strap. {16} But Telemachus as he lay covered with a woollen fleece kept thinking all night through of his intended voyage and of the counsel that Minerva had given him.
然后求婚者们又继续载歌载舞，直到晚上。夜幕降临，他们高兴极了，便各自回家，各自在自己的住处睡觉。 {12} 忒勒马科斯的房间位于一座塔楼的高处，{13} 俯瞰着外院。于是，他躲到了这里，沉思着，陷入了沉思。一位善良的老妇人，名叫欧律克里亚（Euryclea），是皮塞诺之子奥普斯的女儿，拿着两把炽热的火把走在他前面。当她还很小的时候，雷欧提斯就用自己的钱买下了她。他为她付出了二十头牛的价值，并在家里对她表现出像对自己的妻子一样的尊重，但他没有把她抱到床上，因为他担心妻子会生气。 {14}现在正是她将特勒马科斯引到了他的房间，她比家里其他任何女人都更爱他，因为她在他还是个婴儿时就哺育过他。他打开卧室的门，坐到床上。当他脱下衬衫{15}时，他把它交给了善良的老妇人，老妇人将其折叠整齐，并为他挂在床边的钉子上，然后她出去了，用银子拉着门。抓住，并通过带子将螺栓拉回原位。 {16}但是特勒马科斯躺在床上，盖着羊毛羊毛，整个晚上都在思考他的预定航行以及密涅瓦给他的建议。

BOOK II
第二册

ASSEMBLY OF THE PEOPLE OF ITHACA—SPEECHES OF TELEMACHUS AND OF THE SUITORS—TELEMACHUS MAKES HIS PREPARATIONS AND STARTS FOR PYLOS WITH MINERVA DISGUISED AS MENTOR.
伊萨卡人民集会——特勒马科斯和求婚者的讲话——特勒马科斯做好了准备，并在密涅瓦伪装成导师的情况下开始前往皮洛斯。

Now when the child of morning, rosy-fingered Dawn, appeared Telemachus rose and dressed himself. He bound his sandals on to his comely feet, girded his sword about his shoulder, and left his room looking like an immortal god. He at once sent the criers round to call the people in assembly, so they called them and the people gathered thereon; then, when they were got together, he went to the place of assembly spear in hand—not alone, for his two hounds went with him. Minerva endowed him with a presence of such divine comeliness that all marvelled at him as he went by, and when he took his place in his father’s seat even the oldest councillors made way for him.
现在，当早晨的孩子，玫瑰色手指的黎明出现时，忒勒马科斯站了起来，穿好衣服。他把凉鞋绑在漂亮的脚上，把剑挂在肩上，离开房间时看起来就像一位不朽的神。他立即派传令员去召集民众集会，于是他们召集了他们，民众就聚集到了那里。然后，当他们聚集在一起时，他手持长矛前往集会地点——他并不孤单，因为他的两只猎犬也跟着他。密涅瓦赋予他如此神圣的英俊气质，当他走过时，所有人都对他惊叹不已，当他继承父亲的席位时，即使是最年长的议员也为他让路。

Aegyptius, a man bent double with age, and of infinite experience, was the first to speak. His son Antiphus had gone with Ulysses to Ilius, land of noble steeds, but the savage Cyclops had killed him when they were all shut up in the cave, and had cooked his last dinner for him. {17} He had three sons left, of whom two still worked on their father’s land, while the third, Eurynomus, was one of the suitors; nevertheless their father could not get over the loss of Antiphus, and was still weeping for him when he began his speech.
埃古普提乌斯是第一个说话的人，他是一个随着年龄的增长而弯腰驼背、经验丰富的人。他的儿子安提弗斯和尤利西斯一起去了伊利乌斯，那是高贵骏马的土地，但当他们都被关在山洞里时，野蛮的独眼巨人杀死了他，并为他做了最后的晚餐。 {17}他还剩下三个儿子，其中两个仍在父亲的土地上工作，而第三个，欧律诺莫斯，是追求者之一；然而，他们的父亲无法从失去安提弗斯的悲伤中恢复过来，当他开始演讲时，他仍在为他哭泣。

‘Men of Ithaca,’ he said, ‘hear my words. From the day Ulysses left us there has been no meeting of our councillors until now; who then can it be, whether old or young, that finds it so necessary to convene us? Has he got wind of some host approaching, and does he wish to warn us, or would he speak upon some other matter of public moment? I am sure he is an excellent person, and I hope Jove will grant him his heart’s desire.’
“伊萨卡的人们，”他说，“听我的话。”从尤利西斯离开我们的那天起，我们的议员们就没有再开过会议。那么，到底是谁，无论是老人还是年轻人，觉得有必要召集我们呢？他是否听说有主人正在接近，他是否想警告我们，或者他会谈论其他公共场合的问题吗？我确信他是一个优秀的人，希望天佑能满足他的愿望。

Telemachus took this speech as of good omen and rose at once, for he was bursting with what he had to say. He stood in the middle of the assembly and the good herald Pisenor brought him his staff. Then, turning to Aegyptius, ‘Sir,’ said he, ‘it is I, as you will shortly learn, who have convened you, for it is I who am the most aggrieved. I have not got wind of any host approaching about which I would warn you, nor is there any matter of public moment on which I would speak. My grievance is purely personal, and turns on two great misfortunes which have fallen upon my house. The first of these is the loss of my excellent father, who was chief among all you here present, and was like a father to every one of you; the second is much more serious, and ere long will be the utter ruin of my estate. The sons of all the chief men among you are pestering my mother to marry them against her will. They are afraid to go to her father Icarius, asking him to choose the one he likes best, and to provide marriage gifts for his daughter, but day by day they keep hanging about my father’s house, sacrificing our oxen, sheep, and fat goats for their banquets, and never giving so much as a thought to the quantity of wine they drink. No estate can stand such recklessness; we have now no Ulysses to ward off harm from our doors, and I cannot hold my own against them. I shall never all my days be as good a man as he was, still I would indeed defend myself if I had power to do so, for I cannot stand such treatment any longer; my house is being disgraced and ruined. Have respect, therefore, to your own consciences and to public opinion. Fear, too, the wrath of heaven, lest the gods should be displeased and turn upon you. I pray you by Jove and Themis, who is the beginning and the end of councils, [do not] hold back, my friends, and leave me singlehanded {18}—unless it be that my brave father Ulysses did some wrong to the Achaeans which you would now avenge on me, by aiding and abetting these suitors. Moreover, if I am to be eaten out of house and home at all, I had rather you did the eating yourselves, for I could then take action against you to some purpose, and serve you with notices from house to house till I got paid in full, whereas now I have no remedy.’ {19}
忒勒马科斯认为这是一个好兆头，立刻站了起来，因为他要说的话已经滔滔不绝了。他站在人群中间，好心的传令官皮塞诺给他带来了他的手杖。然后，他转向埃吉普提乌斯，说道：“先生，您很快就会知道，是我召集您来的，因为我是最受委屈的。”我没有收到任何要警告您的主人即将到来的风声，也没有任何公共场合的问题需要我发言。我的不满纯粹是个人的，源于我家遭遇的两次巨大不幸。首先是失去了我优秀的父亲，他是在场所有人中的佼佼者，对你们每个人来说就像父亲一样。第二个要严重得多，不久我的庄园就会彻底毁掉。你们当中所有显赫人物的儿子们都在缠着我母亲，违背她的意愿与他们结婚。他们害怕去见她的父亲伊卡里乌斯，要求他选一个他最喜欢的，并为他的女儿提供结婚礼物，但他们却日复一日地在我父亲的房子里徘徊，牺牲我们的牛、羊和肥山羊。他们在宴会上从来不考虑喝多少酒。没有哪个阶层能够忍受如此鲁莽的行为；我们现在没有《尤利西斯》来抵御来自我们家门的伤害，而我也无法抵御它们。我永远不会像他那样成为一个好人，但如果我有能力的话，我确实会为自己辩护，因为我再也无法忍受这样的待遇了；我的房子正在被羞辱和毁坏。因此，尊重自己的良心和公众舆论。也要惧怕上天的愤怒，以免众神不悦并转向你。 我以朱庇特和忒弥斯的名义祈祷你们，他们是议会的开始和结束，[不要]阻止，我的朋友们，让我独自一人{18}——除非我勇敢的父亲尤利西斯对亚该亚人做了一些错事现在你要通过帮助和教唆这些追求者来向我报仇。而且，如果我要在外面和家里被吃掉，我宁愿你们自己吃，因为这样我就可以为了某种目的对你们采取行动，挨家挨户地通知你们，直到我得到报酬。完全，而现在我没有补救办法。’{19}

With this Telemachus dashed his staff to the ground and burst into tears. Every one was very sorry for him, but they all sat still and no one ventured to make him an angry answer, save only Antinous, who spoke thus:
说完，忒勒马科斯把他的手杖摔在地上，放声大哭。每个人都为他感到难过，但他们都静静地坐着，没有人敢对他做出愤怒的回答，只有安提诺乌斯这样说道：

‘Telemachus, insolent braggart that you are, how dare you try to throw the blame upon us suitors? It is your mother’s fault not ours, for she is a very artful woman. This three years past, and close on four, she had been driving us out of our minds, by encouraging each one of us, and sending him messages without meaning one word of what she says. And then there was that other trick she played us. She set up a great tambour frame in her room, and began to work on an enormous piece of fine needlework. ‘Sweet hearts,’ said she, ‘Ulysses is indeed dead, still do not press me to marry again immediately, wait—for I would not have skill in needlework perish unrecorded—till I have completed a pall for the hero Laertes, to be in readiness against the time when death shall take him. He is very rich, and the women of the place will talk if he is laid out without a pall.’
‘忒勒马科斯，你这个无礼的吹牛大王，你怎么敢把责任归咎于我们这些追求者？这是你母亲的错，不是我们的错，因为她是一个非常狡猾的女人。三年过去了，快四年了，她鼓励我们每个人，给他发信息，而她所说的话却没有任何意义，这让我们失去了理智。然后她又给我们玩了另一个把戏。她在房间里架起了一个巨大的鼓架，开始制作一件巨大的精美针线活。 “亲爱的，”她说，“尤利西斯确实死了，还是不要催促我立即再婚，等一下——等我完成了英雄雷欧提斯的棺材，我就不会无缘无故地死去了。”做好准备，迎接死亡降临的时刻。他非常富有，如果他不蒙着罩子躺着，那地方的女人就会议论纷纷。”

‘This was what she said, and we assented; whereon we could see her working on her great web all day long, but at night she would unpick the stitches again by torchlight. She fooled us in this way for three years and we never found her out, but as time wore on and she was now in her fourth year, one of her maids who knew what she was doing told us, and we caught her in the act of undoing her work, so she had to finish it whether she would or no. The suitors, therefore, make you this answer, that both you and the Achaeans may understand-’Send your mother away, and bid her marry the man of her own and of her father’s choice’; for I do not know what will happen if she goes on plaguing us much longer with the airs she gives herself on the score of the accomplishments Minerva has taught her, and because she is so clever. We never yet heard of such a woman; we know all about Tyro, Alcmena, Mycene, and the famous women of old, but they were nothing to your mother any one of them. It was not fair of her to treat us in that way, and as long as she continues in the mind with which heaven has now endowed her, so long shall we go on eating up your estate; and I do not see why she should change, for she gets all the honour and glory, and it is you who pay for it, not she. Understand, then, that we will not go back to our lands, neither here nor elsewhere, till she has made her choice and married some one or other of us.’
“她是这么说的，我们也同意了；我们可以看到她整天都在织她的大网，但到了晚上，她会在手电筒的光下再次拆线。她就这样愚弄了我们三年，我们一直没有发现她，但随着时间的流逝，她现在已经第四年了，她的一位女仆知道她在做什么，告诉了我们，我们当场抓住了她毁掉她的工作，所以无论她愿不愿意，她都必须完成它。因此，求婚者给你这样的回答，以便你和亚该亚人都能理解——“把你的母亲送走，并吩咐她嫁给她自己和她父亲选择的男人”；因为我不知道如果她继续用她因密涅瓦教给她的成就而表现出的架子来困扰我们更长时间，会发生什么，因为她是如此聪明。我们还从未听说过这样的女人；我们都知道蒂罗、阿尔克梅纳、迈锡尼以及古代著名的女性，但对你母亲来说，她们中的任何一个都算不上什么。她这样对待我们是不公平的，只要她继续保持上天赋予她的头脑，我们就会继续吃掉你的财产；我不明白她为什么要改变，因为她得到了所有的荣誉和荣耀，而为此付出代价的是你，而不是她。那么，请理解，在她做出选择并与我们中的某个人结婚之前，我们不会回到我们的土地，无论是在这里还是其他地方。

Telemachus answered, ‘Antinous, how can I drive the mother who bore me from my father’s house? My father is abroad and we do not know whether he is alive or dead. It will be hard on me if I have to pay Icarius the large sum which I must give him if I insist on sending his daughter back to him. Not only will he deal rigorously with me, but heaven will also punish me; for my mother when she leaves the house will call on the Erinyes to avenge her; besides, it would not be a creditable thing to do, and I will have nothing to say to it. If you choose to take offence at this, leave the house and feast elsewhere at one another’s houses at your own cost turn and turn about. If, on the other hand, you elect to persist in spunging upon one man, heaven help me, but Jove shall reckon with you in full, and when you fall in my father’s house there shall be no man to avenge you.’
忒勒马科斯回答说：“安提诺斯，我怎样才能把生我的母亲赶出我父亲的家呢？”我父亲在国外，我们不知道他是生是死。如果我必须向伊卡里乌斯支付一大笔钱，如果我坚持把他的女儿送回给他，我就必须给他，这对我来说会很困难。他不但要严待我，天还要惩罚我；因为当我母亲离开家时，她会召唤厄里涅斯为她报仇。此外，这不是一件值得尊敬的事情，我对此无话可说。如果你选择对此感到生气，那就离开家，去别人家的其他地方享用一顿美餐，费用由你自己承担。另一方面，如果你选择坚持攻击一个人，上天会帮助我，但天神会完全算计你，当你在我父亲的房子里倒下时，将没有人为你报仇。

As he spoke Jove sent two eagles from the top of the mountain, and they flew on and on with the wind, sailing side by side in their own lordly flight. When they were right over the middle of the assembly they wheeled and circled about, beating the air with their wings and glaring death into the eyes of them that were below; then, fighting fiercely and tearing at one another, they flew off towards the right over the town. The people wondered as they saw them, and asked each other what all this might be; whereon Halitherses, who was the best prophet and reader of omens among them, spoke to them plainly and in all honesty, saying:
说话间，朱庇特从山顶放出了两只老鹰，它们随风飞翔，并肩飞行，雄伟地飞翔。当它们飞到人群中间时，它们盘旋着，用翅膀拍打着空气，用死神般的眼神瞪着下面的人。然后，他们激烈地战斗，互相撕扯，飞向城镇的右侧。人们看到他们都很奇怪，互相询问这到底是怎么回事。哈利瑟斯是他们当中最好的先知和预兆解读者，他坦白而诚实地对他们说道：

‘Hear me, men of Ithaca, and I speak more particularly to the suitors, for I see mischief brewing for them. Ulysses is not going to be away much longer; indeed he is close at hand to deal out death and destruction, not on them alone, but on many another of us who live in Ithaca. Let us then be wise in time, and put a stop to this wickedness before he comes. Let the suitors do so of their own accord; it will be better for them, for I am not prophesying without due knowledge; everything has happened to Ulysses as I foretold when the Argives set out for Troy, and he with them. I said that after going through much hardship and losing all his men he should come home again in the twentieth year and that no one would know him; and now all this is coming true.’
“听我说，伊萨卡的人们，我特别对追求者说话，因为我看到他们正在酝酿恶作剧。尤利西斯不会离开太久了。事实上，他即将带来死亡和毁灭，不仅针对他们，而且针对我们居住在伊萨卡的许多其他人。那么，让我们及时明智地在他到来之前制止这种邪恶行为吧。让追求者自愿这样做；这对他们来说更好，因为我不会在没有适当知识的情况下说预言。一切都发生在尤利西斯身上，正如我在阿尔戈斯人出发前往特洛伊时所预言的那样，而他也和他们在一起。我说他历经千辛万苦，失去了所有的人，二十年后他会再回家，没有人会认识他；现在这一切都将成为现实。”

Eurymachus son of Polybus then said, ‘Go home, old man, and prophesy to your own children, or it may be worse for them. I can read these omens myself much better than you can; birds are always flying about in the sunshine somewhere or other, but they seldom mean anything. Ulysses has died in a far country, and it is a pity you are not dead along with him, instead of prating here about omens and adding fuel to the anger of Telemachus which is fierce enough as it is. I suppose you think he will give you something for your family, but I tell you—and it shall surely be—when an old man like you, who should know better, talks a young one over till he becomes troublesome, in the first place his young friend will only fare so much the worse—he will take nothing by it, for the suitors will prevent this—and in the next, we will lay a heavier fine, sir, upon yourself than you will at all like paying, for it will bear hardly upon you. As for Telemachus, I warn him in the presence of you all to send his mother back to her father, who will find her a husband and provide her with all the marriage gifts so dear a daughter may expect. Till then we shall go on harassing him with our suit; for we fear no man, and care neither for him, with all his fine speeches, nor for any fortune-telling of yours. You may preach as much as you please, but we shall only hate you the more. We shall go back and continue to eat up Telemachus’s estate without paying him, till such time as his mother leaves off tormenting us by keeping us day after day on the tiptoe of expectation, each vying with the other in his suit for a prize of such rare perfection. Besides we cannot go after the other women whom we should marry in due course, but for the way in which she treats us.’
波吕波斯的儿子欧律马科斯说道：“老头子，回家吧，对你自己的孩子们说预言，否则他们的处境可能会更糟。”我自己比你更能解读这些预兆；鸟儿总是在阳光下飞翔在某个地方，但它们很少有任何意义。尤利西斯死在了遥远的国度，遗憾的是你没有和他一起死，而不是在这里喋喋不休地谈论预兆，给特勒马科斯的怒火火上浇油，他本来就够猛烈的。我想你认为他会给你一些东西给你的家人，但我告诉你——而且肯定会的——当一个像你这样的老人，他应该更了解，一开始就劝说一个年轻人，直到他变得麻烦。他年轻的朋友只会遭遇更糟糕的事情——他不会接受任何东西，因为求婚者会阻止这一切——接下来，先生，我们将对你自己处以比你愿意支付的更重的罚款，因为它对你来说几乎没有影响。至于特勒马科斯，我当着你们所有人的面警告他，把他的母亲送回她的父亲身边，她的父亲将为她找到一个丈夫，并为她提供亲爱的女儿所期望的所有结婚礼物。到那时我们将继续用我们的诉讼骚扰他；因为我们不惧怕任何人，也不关心他所有的精彩演讲，也不关心你的任何算命。你可以随心所欲地讲道，但我们只会更加恨你。我们将回去，继续吃掉特勒马科斯的财产，而不付钱给他，直到他的母亲停止折磨我们，日复一日地让我们踮着脚尖等待，每个人都穿着自己的西装，争夺这样的奖品。罕见的完美。此外，我们不能追求其他我们应该在适当的时候结婚的女人，除非她对待我们的方式。

Then Telemachus said, ‘Eurymachus, and you other suitors, I shall say no more, and entreat you no further, for the gods and the people of Ithaca now know my story. Give me, then, a ship and a crew of twenty men to take me hither and thither, and I will go to Sparta and to Pylos in quest of my father who has so long been missing. Some one may tell me something, or (and people often hear things in this way) some heaven-sent message may direct me. If I can hear of him as alive and on his way home I will put up with the waste you suitors will make for yet another twelve months. If on the other hand I hear of his death, I will return at once, celebrate his funeral rites with all due pomp, build a barrow to his memory, and make my mother marry again.’
然后特勒马科斯说：“欧律马科斯，还有你们其他的求婚者，我不再多说，也不再恳求你们，因为伊萨卡的诸神和人民现在都知道我的故事了。”那么，给我一艘船和二十名船员，带我到处走走，我就去斯巴达和皮洛斯寻找失踪已久的父亲。有人可能会告诉我一些事情，或者（人们经常以这种方式听到事情）一些天赐的信息可能会指导我。如果我能听到他还活着并且正在回家的路上，我会再忍受你们追求者们的浪费十二个月。另一方面，如果我听到他去世的消息，我会立即返回，以一切应有的盛况庆祝他的葬礼，为他建造一座手推车以纪念他，并让我的母亲再次结婚。

With these words he sat down, and Mentor {20} who had been a friend of Ulysses, and had been left in charge of everything with full authority over the servants, rose to speak. He, then, plainly and in all honesty addressed them thus:
说完这句话，他坐下来，导师{20}站起来讲话，他曾是尤利西斯的朋友，并被留下负责一切事务，对仆人拥有完全的权力。然后，他坦白而诚实地对他们这样说道：

‘Hear me, men of Ithaca, I hope that you may never have a kind and well-disposed ruler any more, nor one who will govern you equitably; I hope that all your chiefs henceforward may be cruel and unjust, for there is not one of you but has forgotten Ulysses, who ruled you as though he were your father. I am not half so angry with the suitors, for if they choose to do violence in the naughtiness of their hearts, and wager their heads that Ulysses will not return, they can take the high hand and eat up his estate, but as for you others I am shocked at the way in which you all sit still without even trying to stop such scandalous goings on—which you could do if you chose, for you are many and they are few.’
‘听我说，伊萨卡的人们，我希望你们再也不会有一位仁慈和好心的统治者，也不会再有一个公平地统治你们的人；我希望你们所有的首领从此以后都变得残酷和不公正，因为你们中没有一个人忘记了尤利西斯，他像你们的父亲一样统治着你们。我对追求者们一点也不生气，因为如果他们出于内心的顽皮而选择实施暴力，并打赌尤利西斯不会回来，他们可以采取高压手段并吃掉他的财产，但至于你我对你们所有人坐以待毙的方式感到震惊，甚至没有试图阻止这种可耻的事情发生——如果你愿意的话，你可以这么做，因为你们很多，而他们很少。

Leiocritus, son of Evenor, answered him saying, ‘Mentor, what folly is all this, that you should set the people to stay us? It is a hard thing for one man to fight with many about his victuals. Even though Ulysses himself were to set upon us while we are feasting in his house, and do his best to oust us, his wife, who wants him back so very badly, would have small cause for rejoicing, and his blood would be upon his own head if he fought against such great odds. There is no sense in what you have been saying. Now, therefore, do you people go about your business, and let his father’s old friends, Mentor and Halitherses, speed this boy on his journey, if he goes at all—which I do not think he will, for he is more likely to stay where he is till some one comes and tells him something.’
埃弗诺的儿子莱奥克里特斯回答他说：“导师，你竟然派人民来阻止我们，这是多么愚蠢的事情啊？”对于一个人来说，为了自己的食物而与很多人争吵是一件很难的事情。尽管尤利西斯本人会在我们在他家里吃饭的时候袭击我们，并竭尽全力驱逐我们，但他的妻子非常希望他回来，因此没有什么理由高兴，他的血将归在他的身上。如果他与如此巨大的困难进行斗争，他自己的头脑。你所说的毫无意义。因此，现在，你们大家忙自己的事吧，让他父亲的老朋友导师和哈利瑟斯加速这个男孩的旅程，如果他真的去的话——我认为他不会，因为他更有可能呆在原地，直到有人过来告诉他一些事情。

On this he broke up the assembly, and every man went back to his own abode, while the suitors returned to the house of Ulysses.
于是，他解散了集会，每个人都回到了自己的住所，而求婚者则回到了尤利西斯的家。

Then Telemachus went all alone by the sea side, washed his hands in the grey waves, and prayed to Minerva.
然后忒勒马科斯独自走到海边，在灰色的海浪中洗手，并向密涅瓦祈祷。

‘Hear me,’ he cried, ‘you god who visited me yesterday, and bade me sail the seas in search of my father who has so long been missing. I would obey you, but the Achaeans, and more particularly the wicked suitors, are hindering me that I cannot do so.’
“听我说，”他喊道，“上帝啊，昨天拜访了我，命令我出海寻找失踪已久的父亲。我会服从你，但亚该亚人，尤其是邪恶的追求者，正在阻碍我，让我不能这样做。

As he thus prayed, Minerva came close up to him in the likeness and with the voice of Mentor. ‘Telemachus,’ said she, ‘if you are made of the same stuff as your father you will be neither fool nor coward henceforward, for Ulysses never broke his word nor left his work half done. If, then, you take after him, your voyage will not be fruitless, but unless you have the blood of Ulysses and of Penelope in your veins I see no likelihood of your succeeding. Sons are seldom as good men as their fathers; they are generally worse, not better; still, as you are not going to be either fool or coward henceforward, and are not entirely without some share of your father’s wise discernment, I look with hope upon your undertaking. But mind you never make common cause with any of those foolish suitors, for they have neither sense nor virtue, and give no thought to death and to the doom that will shortly fall on one and all of them, so that they shall perish on the same day. As for your voyage, it shall not be long delayed; your father was such an old friend of mine that I will find you a ship, and will come with you myself. Now, however, return home, and go about among the suitors; begin getting provisions ready for your voyage; see everything well stowed, the wine in jars, and the barley meal, which is the staff of life, in leathern bags, while I go round the town and beat up volunteers at once. There are many ships in Ithaca both old and new; I will run my eye over them for you and will choose the best; we will get her ready and will put out to sea without delay.’
当他如此祈祷时，密涅瓦以导师的形象和声音靠近了他。 “忒勒马科斯，”她说，“如果你和你的父亲一样，从今以后你就不再是傻瓜，也不再是胆小鬼，因为尤利西斯从来没有食言，也从来没有半途而废。那么，如果你效仿他，你的航行就不会毫无成果，但除非你的血管里流淌着尤利西斯和佩内洛普的血液，否则我看不出你成功的可能性。儿子们很少像他们的父亲那样好。它们通常更差，而不是更好；不过，既然你今后不会成为傻瓜或胆小鬼，也并非完全没有你父亲的智慧洞察力，所以我对你的事业充满希望。但请注意，你永远不要与那些愚蠢的求婚者达成共同目标，因为他们既没有理智，也没有美德，并且不考虑死亡和不久将降临到他们所有人身上的厄运，因此他们将在最后一刻灭亡。同一天。至于你的航程，不会耽搁太久；你父亲是我的老朋友，我会为你找到一艘船，并亲自和你一起去。然而现在，回家吧，在追求者中间走走吧；开始为您的航行准备物资；看到所有东西都装得很好，罐子里的酒，还有装在皮袋里的大麦粉，这是生活的必需品，而我则绕城一周，立即殴打志愿者。伊萨卡岛有许多新旧船只；我会为你筛选并选择最好的；我们会让她做好准备，并立即出海。”

Thus spoke Minerva daughter of Jove, and Telemachus lost no time in doing as the goddess told him. He went moodily home, and found the suitors flaying goats and singeing pigs in the outer court. Antinous came up to him at once and laughed as he took his hand in his own, saying, ‘Telemachus, my fine fire-eater, bear no more ill blood neither in word nor deed, but eat and drink with us as you used to do. The Achaeans will find you in everything—a ship and a picked crew to boot—so that you can set sail for Pylos at once and get news of your noble father.’
朱庇特的女儿密涅瓦如此说道，忒勒马科斯立即按照女神的吩咐去做。他闷闷不乐地回家，发现求婚者正在外院剥山羊、烧猪。安提诺乌斯立刻走到他面前，笑着握住他的手，说道：“忒勒马科斯，我优秀的食火者，无论是在言语还是行为上，都不要再有恶意了，只要像以前一样和我们一起吃喝吧。”做。亚该亚人会在一切事情上找到你——一艘船和精选的船员——这样你就可以立即启航前往皮洛斯并得到你高贵父亲的消息。

‘Antinous,’ answered Telemachus, ‘I cannot eat in peace, nor take pleasure of any kind with such men as you are. Was it not enough that you should waste so much good property of mine while I was yet a boy? Now that I am older and know more about it, I am also stronger, and whether here among this people, or by going to Pylos, I will do you all the harm I can. I shall go, and my going will not be in vain—though, thanks to you suitors, I have neither ship nor crew of my own, and must be passenger not captain.’
“安提诺斯，”忒勒马科斯回答道，“我不能安心地吃饭，也不能与像你这样的人一起享受任何乐趣。当我还是个孩子的时候，你就浪费了我这么多的好财产，这还不够吗？现在我年纪大了，对此了解得更多，我也更坚强，无论是在这些人中间，还是去皮洛斯，我都会尽我所能地伤害你们。我要去，我的去不会白费——不过，多亏了你们这些追求者，我既没有自己的船，也没有自己的船员，我必须是乘客而不是船长。

As he spoke he snatched his hand from that of Antinous. Meanwhile the others went on getting dinner ready about the buildings, {21} jeering at him tauntingly as they did so.
说话间，他从安提诺斯手中抽出了自己的手。与此同时，其他人继续在建筑物周围准备晚餐，{21} 在这样做时嘲笑他。

‘Telemachus,’ said one youngster, ‘means to be the death of us; I suppose he thinks he can bring friends to help him from Pylos, or again from Sparta, where he seems bent on going. Or will he go to Ephyra as well, for poison to put in our wine and kill us?’
“忒勒马科斯，”一位年轻人说道，“意味着我们的死亡；我想他认为他可以从皮洛斯带朋友来帮助他，或者再从斯巴达带朋友来帮助他，他似乎决心要去那里。或者他也会去艾菲拉，在我们的酒里放毒药来杀死我们？

Another said, ‘Perhaps if Telemachus goes on board ship, he will be like his father and perish far from his friends. In this case we should have plenty to do, for we could then divide up his property amongst us: as for the house we can let his mother and the man who marries her have that.’
另一个人说：“也许如果忒勒马科斯上了船，他就会像他的父亲一样，远离他的朋友而灭亡。”在这种情况下，我们应该有很多事情要做，因为我们可以把他的财产分给我们：至于房子，我们可以让他的母亲和娶她的男人拥有。

This was how they talked. But Telemachus went down into the lofty and spacious store-room where his father’s treasure of gold and bronze lay heaped up upon the floor, and where the linen and spare clothes were kept in open chests. Here, too, there was a store of fragrant olive oil, while casks of old, well-ripened wine, unblended and fit for a god to drink, were ranged against the wall in case Ulysses should come home again after all. The room was closed with well-made doors opening in the middle; moreover the faithful old house-keeper Euryclea, daughter of Ops the son of Pisenor, was in charge of everything both night and day. Telemachus called her to the store-room and said:
他们就是这样说话的。但特勒马科斯走进了高大宽敞的储藏室，他父亲的金子和青铜财宝堆放在地板上，亚麻布和换洗的衣服则存放在敞开的箱子里。这里也有一家芬芳的橄榄油店，而一桶桶陈年熟成的葡萄酒，未经混合，适合供神饮用，靠墙排列着，以防尤利西斯再次回家。房间是关着的，中间开着一扇做工精良的门。此外，忠诚的老女管家欧律克里亚（Euryclea），皮塞诺尔（Pisenor）之子奥普斯（Ops）的女儿，日夜负责一切事务。忒勒马科斯把她叫到储藏室，说道：

‘Nurse, draw me off some of the best wine you have, after what you are keeping for my father’s own drinking, in case, poor man, he should escape death, and find his way home again after all. Let me have twelve jars, and see that they all have lids; also fill me some well-sewn leathern bags with barley meal—about twenty measures in all. Get these things put together at once, and say nothing about it. I will take everything away this evening as soon as my mother has gone upstairs for the night. I am going to Sparta and to Pylos to see if I can hear anything about the return of my dear father.’
“嬷嬷，在你为我父亲自己留着喝的酒之后，给我倒一些最好的酒，以防可怜的人，他应该逃脱死亡，并再次找到回家的路。让我有十二个罐子，看看它们都有盖子；又给我装了一些缝制好的皮袋，里面装满了大麦粉，总共大约二十斤。把这些东西一下子凑到一起，什么也不说。今晚等我妈妈上楼过夜我就会把所有东西都拿走。我要去斯巴达和皮洛斯，看看是否能听到有关我亲爱的父亲回来的消息。

When Euryclea heard this she began to cry, and spoke fondly to him, saying, ‘My dear child, what ever can have put such notion as that into your head? Where in the world do you want to go to—you, who are the one hope of the house? Your poor father is dead and gone in some foreign country nobody knows where, and as soon as your back is turned these wicked ones here will be scheming to get you put out of the way, and will share all your possessions among themselves; stay where you are among your own people, and do not go wandering and worrying your life out on the barren ocean.’
尤里克利听了这话，哭了起来，深情地对他说：“我亲爱的孩子，是什么让你产生这样的想法呢？”你想去世界上的哪个地方——你，你是这个房子唯一的希望？你可怜的父亲死了，去了某个陌生的国家，没有人知道在哪里，一旦你转身，这些邪恶的人就会密谋把你赶走，并分享你所有的财产；留在你自己的人民中，不要在荒芜的海洋上徘徊并担心你的生活。

‘Fear not, nurse,’ answered Telemachus, ‘my scheme is not without heaven’s sanction; but swear that you will say nothing about all this to my mother, till I have been away some ten or twelve days, unless she hears of my having gone, and asks you; for I do not want her to spoil her beauty by crying.’
“别害怕，护士，”忒勒马科斯回答道，“我的计划并非没有上天的认可；但我发誓，在我离开十天或十二天之前，你不会把这一切告诉我母亲，除非她听说我走了，并询问你；因为我不想让她因哭泣而破坏她的美丽。

The old woman swore most solemnly that she would not, and when she had completed her oath, she began drawing off the wine into jars, and getting the barley meal into the bags, while Telemachus went back to the suitors.
老妇人郑重地发誓她不会，当她完成誓言后，她开始把酒装进罐子里，把大麦粉装进袋子里，而特勒马科斯则回到求婚者那里。

Then Minerva bethought her of another matter. She took his shape, and went round the town to each one of the crew, telling them to meet at the ship by sundown. She went also to Noemon son of Phronius, and asked him to let her have a ship—which he was very ready to do. When the sun had set and darkness was over all the land, she got the ship into the water, put all the tackle on board her that ships generally carry, and stationed her at the end of the harbour. Presently the crew came up, and the goddess spoke encouragingly to each of them.
然后米勒娃想到了另一件事。她化作了他的形状，绕城去找每一位船员，告诉他们日落前在船上见面。她还去找弗洛尼乌斯的儿子诺蒙，请求他给她一艘船——他已经准备好了。当太阳落山，黑暗笼罩大地时，她把船驶入水中，把船上通常携带的所有渔具都装到船上，并将她停泊在港口的尽头。不久，船员们都上来了，女神对他们每个人都说了鼓励的话。

Furthermore she went to the house of Ulysses, and threw the suitors into a deep slumber. She caused their drink to fuddle them, and made them drop their cups from their hands, so that instead of sitting over their wine, they went back into the town to sleep, with their eyes heavy and full of drowsiness. Then she took the form and voice of Mentor, and called Telemachus to come outside.
此外，她还去了尤利西斯的家，让求婚者们陷入了沉睡。她让他们喝得酩酊大醉，还让他们放下手中的杯子，这样他们就不再坐在酒上，而是回到城里睡觉了，眼睛沉重，充满了睡意。然后她化身为导师，并以导师的声音呼唤忒勒马科斯到外面去。

‘Telemachus,’ said she, ‘the men are on board and at their oars, waiting for you to give your orders, so make haste and let us be off.’
“忒勒马科斯，”她说，“人们都在船上，在划桨，等着你下达命令，所以赶快让我们出发吧。”

On this she led the way, while Telemachus followed in her steps. When they got to the ship they found the crew waiting by the water side, and Telemachus said, ‘Now my men, help me to get the stores on board; they are all put together in the cloister, and my mother does not know anything about it, nor any of the maid servants except one.’
在这方面，她带路，而忒勒马科斯紧随其后。当他们到达船上时，他们发现船员们正在水边等候，忒勒马科斯说：“现在，我的伙计们，帮我把物资搬上船；他们都放在修道院里，我母亲对此一无所知，除了一个女仆外，其他女仆也不知道。

With these words he led the way and the others followed after. When they had brought the things as he told them, Telemachus went on board, Minerva going before him and taking her seat in the stern of the vessel, while Telemachus sat beside her. Then the men loosed the hawsers and took their places on the benches. Minerva sent them a fair wind from the West, {22} that whistled over the deep blue waves {23} whereon Telemachus told them to catch hold of the ropes and hoist sail, and they did as he told them. They set the mast in its socket in the cross plank, raised it, and made it fast with the forestays; then they hoisted their white sails aloft with ropes of twisted ox hide. As the sail bellied out with the wind, the ship flew through the deep blue water, and the foam hissed against her bows as she sped onward. Then they made all fast throughout the ship, filled the mixing bowls to the brim, and made drink offerings to the immortal gods that are from everlasting, but more particularly to the grey-eyed daughter of Jove.
此话一出，他在前面带路，其他人跟在后面。当他们按照他所说的把东西带来后，特勒马科斯上了船，密涅瓦走在他前面，坐在船尾，特勒马科斯坐在她旁边。然后，人们松开缆绳，在长凳上就座。密涅瓦从西方给他们送来一阵顺风，{22}呼啸着吹过深蓝色的波浪{23}，特勒马科斯告诉他们抓住绳索并扬起帆，他们按照他的吩咐做了。他们把桅杆插进横板上的插座里，把它升起来，用前撑把它固定住。然后他们用扭曲的牛皮绳子将白色的帆高高举起。随着风帆鼓起，船飞过深蓝色的海水，当她加速前进时，泡沫在船头发出嘶嘶声。然后，他们把船上的所有人都禁食，把搅拌碗装满，并向永恒的不朽之神，尤其是灰眼睛的朱庇特女儿献上奠祭。

Thus, then, the ship sped on her way through the watches of the night from dark till dawn,
于是，船就这样在夜色中疾驰，从天黑到黎明，

BOOK III
第三册

TELEMACHUS VISITS NESTOR AT PYLOS.
忒勒马科斯在皮洛斯拜访内斯特。

But as the sun was rising from the fair sea {24} into the firmament of heaven to shed light on mortals and immortals, they reached Pylos the city of Neleus. Now the people of Pylos were gathered on the sea shore to offer sacrifice of black bulls to Neptune lord of the Earthquake. There were nine guilds with five hundred men in each, and there were nine bulls to each guild. As they were eating the inward meats {25} and burning the thigh bones [on the embers] in the name of Neptune, Telemachus and his crew arrived, furled their sails, brought their ship to anchor, and went ashore.
但是，当太阳从美丽的大海{24}升起进入天空，照亮凡人和不朽者时，他们到达了涅琉斯城皮洛斯。现在，皮洛斯的人们聚集在海边，向地震之王海王星献祭黑牛。共有九个行会，每个行会有五百人，每个行会有九头公牛。当他们正在吃内脏的肉{25}并以海王星的名义燃烧大腿骨（在余烬上）时，特勒马科斯和他的船员到达了，卷起帆，让他们的船抛锚，然后上岸。

Minerva led the way and Telemachus followed her. Presently she said, ‘Telemachus, you must not be in the least shy or nervous; you have taken this voyage to try and find out where your father is buried and how he came by his end; so go straight up to Nestor that we may see what he has got to tell us. Beg of him to speak the truth, and he will tell no lies, for he is an excellent person.’
密涅瓦在前面带路，忒勒马科斯在她后面跟随。不久她说道：“忒勒马科斯，你千万不要害羞或紧张；你踏上这次航行是为了试图找出你父亲的埋葬地点以及他最后是如何到达的；所以直接去见内斯特吧，我们可以看看他要告诉我们什么。请他说实话，他不会说谎，因为他是一个优秀的人。

‘But how, Mentor,’ replied Telemachus, ‘dare I go up to Nestor, and how am I to address him? I have never yet been used to holding long conversations with people, and am ashamed to begin questioning one who is so much older than myself.’
“但是，导师，”忒勒马科斯回答道，“我敢去找内斯特吗？我该如何称呼他呢？”我从来不习惯与人进行长时间的交谈，并且羞于开始质疑一个比我年长得多的人。

‘Some things, Telemachus,’ answered Minerva, ‘will be suggested to you by your own instinct, and heaven will prompt you further; for I am assured that the gods have been with you from the time of your birth until now.’
“有些事情，特勒马科斯，”密涅瓦回答说，“你的本能会向你暗示，而上天会进一步提示你；因为我确信，从你出生到现在，众神一直与你同在。”

She then went quickly on, and Telemachus followed in her steps till they reached the place where the guilds of the Pylian people were assembled. There they found Nestor sitting with his sons, while his company round him were busy getting dinner ready, and putting pieces of meat on to the spits {26} while other pieces were cooking. When they saw the strangers they crowded round them, took them by the hand and bade them take their places. Nestor’s son Pisistratus at once offered his hand to each of them, and seated them on some soft sheepskins that were lying on the sands near his father and his brother Thrasymedes. Then he gave them their portions of the inward meats and poured wine for them into a golden cup, handing it to Minerva first, and saluting her at the same time.
然后她快步前行，特勒马科斯跟随她的脚步，直到到达皮利亚人行会聚集的地方。他们发现内斯特和他的儿子们坐在一起，而他周围的人正忙着准备晚餐，并将肉块放在烤肉叉上{26}，而其他肉块则在烹饪。当他们看到陌生人时，他们聚集在他们周围，拉着他们的手，请他们就座。内斯托尔的儿子皮西斯特拉图斯立刻向他们每个人伸出了手，让他们坐在他父亲和兄弟色拉西墨德斯附近沙滩上的一些柔软的羊皮上。然后他给了他们一份内肉，并为他们倒了酒到金杯中，先递给了密涅瓦，同时向她行了个礼。

‘Offer a prayer, sir,’ said he, ‘to King Neptune, for it is his feast that you are joining; when you have duly prayed and made your drink offering, pass the cup to your friend that he may do so also. I doubt not that he too lifts his hands in prayer, for man cannot live without God in the world. Still he is younger than you are, and is much of an age with myself, so I will give you the precedence.’
“先生，请向尼普顿国王祈祷吧，因为您要参加的是他的盛宴；当您按时祈祷并献上奠祭后，请将杯递给您的朋友，以便他也这样做。我毫不怀疑他也会举手祈祷，因为世界上没有上帝，人就无法生存。不过他比你年轻，而且和我年纪相仿，所以我还是让你优先吧。

As he spoke he handed her the cup. Minerva thought it very right and proper of him to have given it to herself first; {27} she accordingly began praying heartily to Neptune. ‘O thou,’ she cried, ‘that encirclest the earth, vouchsafe to grant the prayers of thy servants that call upon thee. More especially we pray thee send down thy grace on Nestor and on his sons; thereafter also make the rest of the Pylian people some handsome return for the goodly hecatomb they are offering you. Lastly, grant Telemachus and myself a happy issue, in respect of the matter that has brought us in our ship to Pylos.’
说话间，他把杯子递给了她。米勒娃认为他先把它给了自己，这是非常正确的。 {27} 因此，她开始衷心向海王星祈祷。 “噢，你，”她喊道，“环绕大地的你，请赐予你仆人们向你呼求的祈祷。”我们特别祈求您将您的恩宠赐给内斯特和他的儿子们；此后，也让其他皮利安人为他们为你提供的美好墓地做出一些可观的回报。最后，请赐予特勒马科斯和我一个幸福的结局，就我们乘船前往皮洛斯的事情而言。

When she had thus made an end of praying, she handed the cup to Telemachus and he prayed likewise. By and by, when the outer meats were roasted and had been taken off the spits, the carvers gave every man his portion and they all made an excellent dinner. As soon as they had had enough to eat and drink, Nestor, knight of Gerene, began to speak.
当她祈祷结束后，她把杯子递给忒勒马科斯，他也同样祈祷。渐渐地，当外面的肉烤好并从烤肉叉上取下来时，切肉师给每个人分了一份，他们都做了一顿美味的晚餐。等他们吃饱喝足后，盖雷恩的骑士涅斯托尔就开始说话了。

‘Now,’ said he, ‘that our guests have done their dinner, it will be best to ask them who they are. Who, then, sir strangers, are you, and from what port have you sailed? Are you traders? or do you sail the seas as rovers with your hand against every man, and every man’s hand against you?’
“现在，”他说，“我们的客人已经吃完了晚饭，最好问问他们是谁。那么，陌生人先生，您是谁？您从哪个港口启航？你们是交易员吗？或者你像流浪者一样在海上航行，你的手对抗每个人，而每个人的手也对抗你？

Telemachus answered boldly, for Minerva had given him courage to ask about his father and get himself a good name.
忒勒马科斯大胆地回答，因为密涅瓦给了他勇气去询问他父亲的情况，并为自己赢得好名声。

‘Nestor,’ said he, ‘son of Neleus, honour to the Achaean name, you ask whence we come, and I will tell you. We come from Ithaca under Neritum, {28} and the matter about which I would speak is of private not public import. I seek news of my unhappy father Ulysses, who is said to have sacked the town of Troy in company with yourself. We know what fate befell each one of the other heroes who fought at Troy, but as regards Ulysses heaven has hidden from us the knowledge even that he is dead at all, for no one can certify us in what place he perished, nor say whether he fell in battle on the mainland, or was lost at sea amid the waves of Amphitrite. Therefore I am suppliant at your knees, if haply you may be pleased to tell me of his melancholy end, whether you saw it with your own eyes, or heard it from some other traveller, for he was a man born to trouble. Do not soften things out of any pity for me, but tell me in all plainness exactly what you saw. If my brave father Ulysses ever did you loyal service, either by word or deed, when you Achaeans were harassed among the Trojans, bear it in mind now as in my favour and tell me truly all.’
“内斯特，”他说，“涅琉斯之子，尊敬亚该亚之名，你问我们从哪里来，我会告诉你。我们来自尼里图姆 (Neritum) 下的伊萨卡 (Ithaca)，{28}，我要谈论的问题是私人而非公共问题。我寻找我不幸的父亲尤利西斯的消息，据说他和你一起洗劫了特洛伊城。我们知道在特洛伊战斗的其他英雄的命运如何，但至于尤利西斯，上天甚至不让我们知道他已经死了，因为没有人能向我们证实他在哪里死去，也没有人能说他是否死了。他在大陆的战斗中阵亡，或者在安菲特里特的波浪中迷失在海上。因此，我跪在您面前恳求您，如果您愿意告诉我他的悲惨结局，无论您是亲眼所见，还是从其他旅行者那里听到的，因为他是一个生来就遇到麻烦的人。不要因为对我的怜悯而软化事情，而是要坦白地告诉我你所看到的情况。如果我勇敢的父亲尤利西斯曾经在你们亚该亚人在特洛伊人中受到骚扰时，无论是在言语上还是在行动上，为你们提供了忠诚的服务，请现在牢记它，就像对我有利一样，并真实地告诉我一切。

‘My friend,’ answered Nestor, ‘you recall a time of much sorrow to my mind, for the brave Achaeans suffered much both at sea, while privateering under Achilles, and when fighting before the great city of king Priam. Our best men all of them fell there—Ajax, Achilles, Patroclus peer of gods in counsel, and my own dear son Antilochus, a man singularly fleet of foot and in fight valiant. But we suffered much more than this; what mortal tongue indeed could tell the whole story? Though you were to stay here and question me for five years, or even six, I could not tell you all that the Achaeans suffered, and you would turn homeward weary of my tale before it ended. Nine long years did we try every kind of stratagem, but the hand of heaven was against us; during all this time there was no one who could compare with your father in subtlety—if indeed you are his son—I can hardly believe my eyes—and you talk just like him too—no one would say that people of such different ages could speak so much alike. He and I never had any kind of difference from first to last neither in camp nor council, but in singleness of heart and purpose we advised the Argives how all might be ordered for the best.
“我的朋友，”内斯特回答道，“你记得我曾经历过一段悲伤的时光，因为勇敢的亚该亚人在海上，在阿喀琉斯手下的私掠船中，以及在普里阿摩斯国王的伟大城市前战斗时，都遭受了很多苦难。我们最优秀的人都倒在了那里——埃阿斯、阿喀琉斯、神级顾问帕特罗克洛斯，还有我亲爱的儿子安提洛科斯，他是一个步履敏捷、战斗英勇的人。但我们所受的苦难远不止于此；凡人的舌头究竟能说出整个故事吗？虽然你要留在这里质问我五年，甚至六年，但我无法告诉你亚该亚人所遭受的一切，而且在故事结束之前你就会厌倦我的故事。漫长的九年里，我们想尽了各种计策，但老天爷却与我们作对；这么多年来，没有人能在微妙方面与你父亲相比——如果你真是他的儿子——我简直不敢相信自己的眼睛——而且你说话也和他一样——没有人会说，不同年龄的人可以说话非常相似。他和我从始至终都没有任何分歧，无论是在营地还是在议会中，但我们本着一心一意的目标，向阿尔戈斯人建议如何让一切都变得最好。

‘When, however, we had sacked the city of Priam, and were setting sail in our ships as heaven had dispersed us, then Jove saw fit to vex the Argives on their homeward voyage; for they had not all been either wise or understanding, and hence many came to a bad end through the displeasure of Jove’s daughter Minerva, who brought about a quarrel between the two sons of Atreus.
然而，当我们洗劫了普里阿摩斯城，上天驱散了我们，乘船起航时，朱庇特认为有必要骚扰正在返航的阿尔戈斯人；因为他们并不都是明智或理解的，因此许多人都因为朱庇特的女儿密涅瓦的不满而落得不好的下场，密涅瓦在阿特柔斯的两个儿子之间引起了争吵。

‘The sons of Atreus called a meeting which was not as it should be, for it was sunset and the Achaeans were heavy with wine. When they explained why they had called the people together, it seemed that Menelaus was for sailing homeward at once, and this displeased Agamemnon, who thought that we should wait till we had offered hecatombs to appease the anger of Minerva. Fool that he was, he might have known that he would not prevail with her, for when the gods have made up their minds they do not change them lightly. So the two stood bandying hard words, whereon the Achaeans sprang to their feet with a cry that rent the air, and were of two minds as to what they should do.
“阿特柔斯的儿子们召开了一次不合常理的会议，因为当时正值日落，亚该亚人喝得酩酊大醉。当他们解释为什么要召集人们聚集在一起时，墨涅拉俄斯似乎要立即启航回家，这让阿伽门农很不高兴，他认为我们应该等到我们献上十座坟墓来平息密涅瓦的愤怒。他真是个傻瓜，他可能知道自己不会说服她，因为当众神做出决定时，他们不会轻易改变。于是，两人站在一起，互相恶言相向，亚该亚人立刻站起来，发出撕裂空气的叫喊，对于自己应该做什么，他们有两种想法。

‘That night we rested and nursed our anger, for Jove was hatching mischief against us. But in the morning some of us drew our ships into the water and put our goods with our women on board, while the rest, about half in number, stayed behind with Agamemnon. We—the other half—embarked and sailed; and the ships went well, for heaven had smoothed the sea. When we reached Tenedos we offered sacrifices to the gods, for we were longing to get home; cruel Jove, however, did not yet mean that we should do so, and raised a second quarrel in the course of which some among us turned their ships back again, and sailed away under Ulysses to make their peace with Agamemnon; but I, and all the ships that were with me pressed forward, for I saw that mischief was brewing. The son of Tydeus went on also with me, and his crews with him. Later on Menelaus joined us at Lesbos, and found us making up our minds about our course—for we did not know whether to go outside Chios by the island of Psyra, keeping this to our left, or inside Chios, over against the stormy headland of Mimas. So we asked heaven for a sign, and were shown one to the effect that we should be soonest out of danger if we headed our ships across the open sea to Euboea. This we therefore did, and a fair wind sprang up which gave us a quick passage during the night to Geraestus, {29} where we offered many sacrifices to Neptune for having helped us so far on our way. Four days later Diomed and his men stationed their ships in Argos, but I held on for Pylos, and the wind never fell light from the day when heaven first made it fair for me.
“那天晚上，我们休息并平息了我们的愤怒，因为朱庇特正在对我们进行恶作剧。但到了早上，我们中的一些人把船拖入水中，把我们的货物和我们的妇女一起装上船，而剩下的大约一半的人则和阿伽门农一起留在后面。我们——另一半——登船扬帆；船航行得很顺利，因为上天已使大海变得平静。当我们到达特内多斯岛时，我们向众神献祭，因为我们渴望回家。然而，残酷的朱庇特还不打算让我们这样做，他又引发了第二次争吵，在这过程中，我们中的一些人又调转船头，在尤利西斯的带领下扬帆远航，去与阿伽门农讲和。但我和所有跟随我的船只都奋勇向前，因为我看到恶作剧正在酝酿之中。图丢斯的儿子也和我一起前行，他的船员们也和他一起前行。后来，墨涅拉俄斯在莱斯博斯岛与我们会合，发现我们已经决定了我们的路线——因为我们不知道是该离开希俄斯岛的普西拉岛（保持该岛在我们的左边），还是进入希俄斯岛内，面对风雨如磐的岬角。土卫一。于是我们请求上天给我们一个征兆，结果得到了一个征兆，大意是：如果我们把船驶过公海前往优卑亚岛，我们就能尽快脱离危险。因此，我们这样做了，一阵顺风刮起，让我们在夜间快速前往格拉埃斯托斯，{29}，在那里我们向海王星献上了许多祭品，感谢海王星在我们的路上迄今为止对我们的帮助。四天后，迪奥梅德和他的部下将他们的船只驻扎在阿尔戈斯，但我坚守在皮洛斯，从上天第一次为我带来公平的那一天起，风就从未减弱过。

‘Therefore, my dear young friend, I returned without hearing anything about the others. I know neither who got home safely nor who were lost but, as in duty bound, I will give you without reserve the reports that have reached me since I have been here in my own house. They say the Myrmidons returned home safely under Achilles’ son Neoptolemus; so also did the valiant son of Poias, Philoctetes. Idomeneus, again, lost no men at sea, and all his followers who escaped death in the field got safe home with him to Crete. No matter how far out of the world you live, you will have heard of Agamemnon and the bad end he came to at the hands of Aegisthus—and a fearful reckoning did Aegisthus presently pay. See what a good thing it is for a man to leave a son behind him to do as Orestes did, who killed false Aegisthus the murderer of his noble father. You too, then—for you are a tall smart-looking fellow—show your mettle and make yourself a name in story.’
‘因此，我亲爱的年轻朋友，我回来时没有听到任何其他人的消息。我既不知道谁安全回家，也不知道谁迷路，但出于义务，我将毫无保留地向您提供自从我来到自己家里以来我收到的报告。他们说，米尔米顿家族在阿喀琉斯之子涅奥普托勒摩斯的带领下安全返回家园。波亚斯的英勇儿子菲罗克忒忒斯也是如此。伊多墨纽斯再次在海上没有损失任何人，所有在战场上逃脱死亡的追随者都与他一起安全回到了克里特岛。无论你生活在离世界多远的地方，你都会听说过阿伽门农和他在埃吉斯托斯手中的悲惨结局——埃吉斯托斯很快就付出了可怕的代价。看看一个人留下一个儿子，像俄瑞斯忒斯所做的那样，是多么好的一件事情，他杀死了杀害他高贵父亲的假埃吉斯托斯。那么你也一样——因为你是一个身材高大、看上去很聪明的小伙子——展现你的勇气，让自己在故事中出名。

‘Nestor son of Neleus,’ answered Telemachus, ‘honour to the Achaean name, the Achaeans applaud Orestes and his name will live through all time for he has avenged his father nobly. Would that heaven might grant me to do like vengeance on the insolence of the wicked suitors, who are ill treating me and plotting my ruin; but the gods have no such happiness in store for me and for my father, so we must bear it as best we may.’
“涅琉斯之子内斯托尔，”特勒马科斯回答道，“亚该亚人为亚该亚人的名字感到荣幸，亚该亚人为奥瑞斯忒斯喝彩，他的名字将永垂不朽，因为他为他的父亲报了崇高的仇。但愿上天能让我对那些邪恶的追求者的无礼行为进行同样的报复，他们虐待我，密谋毁灭我；但众神并没有为我和我的父亲准备这样的幸福，所以我们必须尽力忍受。

‘My friend,’ said Nestor, ‘now that you remind me, I remember to have heard that your mother has many suitors, who are ill disposed towards you and are making havoc of your estate. Do you submit to this tamely, or are public feeling and the voice of heaven against you? Who knows but what Ulysses may come back after all, and pay these scoundrels in full, either single-handed or with a force of Achaeans behind him? If Minerva were to take as great a liking to you as she did to Ulysses when we were fighting before Troy (for I never yet saw the gods so openly fond of any one as Minerva then was of your father), if she would take as good care of you as she did of him, these wooers would soon some of them forget their wooing.’
“我的朋友，”内斯特说，“既然你提醒了我，我记得听说你母亲有很多追求者，他们对你不怀好意，正在破坏你的财产。你是否顺服了这一切，还是公众的情绪和上天的声音反对你？谁知道尤利西斯最终会回来，并全额偿还这些恶棍，无论是单枪匹马还是在他身后有一支亚该亚人的军队？如果密涅瓦对你的喜爱就像我们在特洛伊之前战斗时对尤利西斯那样（因为我从未见过诸神如此公开地喜欢任何一个人，就像当时密涅瓦对你父亲那样），如果她愿意如果她像对待他一样照顾你，这些追求者很快就会忘记他们的追求。

Telemachus answered, ‘I can expect nothing of the kind; it would be far too much to hope for. I dare not let myself think of it. Even though the gods themselves willed it no such good fortune could befall me.’
忒勒马科斯回答说：“我不能期待这样的事；期望太高了。我不敢让自己去想。即使众神本人愿意，这样的好运也不会降临到我身上。

On this Minerva said, ‘Telemachus, what are you talking about? Heaven has a long arm if it is minded to save a man; and if it were me, I should not care how much I suffered before getting home, provided I could be safe when I was once there. I would rather this, than get home quickly, and then be killed in my own house as Agamemnon was by the treachery of Aegisthus and his wife. Still, death is certain, and when a man’s hour is come, not even the gods can save him, no matter how fond they are of him.’
对此，密涅瓦说道：“忒勒马科斯，你在说什么？天若有心救人，天臂长；如果是我，我不会在意回家前受了多少苦，只要到家后我就可以安全。我宁愿这样，也不愿尽快回家，然后像阿伽门农一样，因埃吉斯托斯和他妻子的背叛而在自己家里被杀。尽管如此，死亡是必然的，当一个人的时刻到来时，即使诸神多么喜爱他，也无法拯救他。

‘Mentor,’ answered Telemachus, ‘do not let us talk about it any more. There is no chance of my father’s ever coming back; the gods have long since counselled his destruction. There is something else, however, about which I should like to ask Nestor, for he knows much more than any one else does. They say he has reigned for three generations so that it is like talking to an immortal. Tell me, therefore, Nestor, and tell me true; how did Agamemnon come to die in that way? What was Menelaus doing? And how came false Aegisthus to kill so far better a man than himself? Was Menelaus away from Achaean Argos, voyaging elsewhither among mankind, that Aegisthus took heart and killed Agamemnon?’
“导师，”忒勒马科斯回答道，“不要让我们再谈论这件事了。”我父亲再也没有机会回来了；众神早已建议毁灭他。然而，还有一件事我想问内斯特，因为他比任何人都知道得多。据说他在位三代，就像与神仙对话一样。因此，请告诉我，内斯特，请告诉我真实的情况；阿伽门农怎么就这样死去了呢？墨涅拉俄斯在做什么？虚假的埃吉斯托斯怎么会杀死一个比他自己好得多的人呢？墨涅拉俄斯是否离开了亚该亚阿尔戈斯，航行到人类的其他地方，导致埃吉斯托斯鼓起勇气杀死了阿伽门农？

‘I will tell you truly,’ answered Nestor, ‘and indeed you have yourself divined how it all happened. If Menelaus when he got back from Troy had found Aegisthus still alive in his house, there would have been no barrow heaped up for him, not even when he was dead, but he would have been thrown outside the city to dogs and vultures, and not a woman would have mourned him, for he had done a deed of great wickedness; but we were over there, fighting hard at Troy, and Aegisthus, who was taking his ease quietly in the heart of Argos, cajoled Agamemnon’s wife Clytemnestra with incessant flattery.
“我会如实告诉你，”内斯特回答道，“事实上，你自己已经猜到了这一切是如何发生的。如果墨涅拉俄斯从特洛伊回来时发现埃吉斯托斯还活着在他的房子里，即使他死了，也不会为他堆起手推车，而是会把他扔到城外喂狗和秃鹰，没有一个女人会为他哀悼，因为他做了一件大罪。但我们在那边，正在特洛伊苦战，埃吉斯托斯在阿尔戈斯的中心静静地悠闲地，不断地奉承阿伽门农的妻子克吕泰涅斯特拉。

‘At first she would have nothing to do with his wicked scheme, for she was of a good natural disposition; {30} moreover there was a bard with her, to whom Agamemnon had given strict orders on setting out for Troy, that he was to keep guard over his wife; but when heaven had counselled her destruction, Aegisthus carried this bard off to a desert island and left him there for crows and seagulls to batten upon—after which she went willingly enough to the house of Aegisthus. Then he offered many burnt sacrifices to the gods, and decorated many temples with tapestries and gilding, for he had succeeded far beyond his expectations.
“起初，她不愿参与他的邪恶计划，因为她生性善良； {30}此外，她身边还有一位吟游诗人，阿伽门农向他下达了前往特洛伊的严格命令，要求他看守他的妻子；但当上天决定毁灭她时，埃吉斯托斯将这个吟游诗人带到了一个荒岛上，把他留在那里让乌鸦和海鸥啃食——之后她心甘情愿地去了埃吉斯托斯的家。然后他向诸神献上了许多燔祭，并用挂毯和镀金装饰了许多寺庙，因为他的成功远远超出了他的预期。

‘Meanwhile Menelaus and I were on our way home from Troy, on good terms with one another. When we got to Sunium, which is the point of Athens, Apollo with his painless shafts killed Phrontis the steersman of Menelaus’ ship (and never man knew better how to handle a vessel in rough weather) so that he died then and there with the helm in his hand, and Menelaus, though very anxious to press forward, had to wait in order to bury his comrade and give him his due funeral rites. Presently, when he too could put to sea again, and had sailed on as far as the Malean heads, Jove counselled evil against him and made it blow hard till the waves ran mountains high. Here he divided his fleet and took the one half towards Crete where the Cydonians dwell round about the waters of the river Iardanus. There is a high headland hereabouts stretching out into the sea from a place called Gortyn, and all along this part of the coast as far as Phaestus the sea runs high when there is a south wind blowing, but after Phaestus the coast is more protected, for a small headland can make a great shelter. Here this part of the fleet was driven on to the rocks and wrecked; but the crews just managed to save themselves. As for the other five ships, they were taken by winds and seas to Egypt, where Menelaus gathered much gold and substance among people of an alien speech. Meanwhile Aegisthus here at home plotted his evil deed. For seven years after he had killed Agamemnon he ruled in Mycene, and the people were obedient under him, but in the eighth year Orestes came back from Athens to be his bane, and killed the murderer of his father. Then he celebrated the funeral rites of his mother and of false Aegisthus by a banquet to the people of Argos, and on that very day Menelaus came home, {31} with as much treasure as his ships could carry.
“与此同时，墨涅拉俄斯和我正在从特洛伊回家的路上，彼此关系很好。当我们到达雅典的中心苏尼乌姆时，阿波罗用他无痛的箭杀死了墨涅拉俄斯船的舵手弗隆提斯（从来没有人知道如何在恶劣的天气下操纵船只），因此他当场就死了。墨涅拉俄斯手里拿着舵，虽然急于向前推进，但还是不得不等待埋葬他的战友，并为他举行应有的葬礼。不久，当他也能再次出海并航行到马林角时，朱庇特对他提出了邪恶的建议，并使其猛烈地吹，直到波浪高涨。在这里，他将他的舰队分开，一半前往克里特岛，那里是塞多尼亚人居住在伊阿达努斯河附近的地方。附近有一个高高的岬角，从一个叫戈廷的地方延伸到海里，沿着这部分海岸，一直到菲斯托斯，吹南风时，海水会涨得很高，但过了菲斯托斯，海岸就受到了更多的保护，因为一个小岬角可以成为一个伟大的避难所。在这里，这部分舰队被撞到岩石上并失事。但船员们最终成功自救。至于其他五艘船，它们被风和海带到了埃及，墨涅拉俄斯在那里从异族语言中收集了大量的黄金和物质。与此同时，埃吉斯托斯在家中密谋着他的恶行。他杀死阿伽门农后，在迈锡尼统治了七年，人民都服从他，但第八年，俄瑞斯忒斯从雅典回来，成为他的克星，杀死了杀害他父亲的凶手。 然后他通过为阿尔戈斯人民举行宴会来庆祝他母亲和假埃吉斯托斯的葬礼，就在那天，墨涅拉俄斯带着他的船只所能携带的尽可能多的财宝回家了。

‘Take my advice then, and do not go travelling about for long so far from home, nor leave your property with such dangerous people in your house; they will eat up everything you have among them, and you will have been on a fool’s errand. Still, I should advise you by all means to go and visit Menelaus, who has lately come off a voyage among such distant peoples as no man could ever hope to get back from, when the winds had once carried him so far out of his reckoning; even birds cannot fly the distance in a twelve-month, so vast and terrible are the seas that they must cross. Go to him, therefore, by sea, and take your own men with you; or if you would rather travel by land you can have a chariot, you can have horses, and here are my sons who can escort you to Lacedaemon where Menelaus lives. Beg of him to speak the truth, and he will tell you no lies, for he is an excellent person.’
“那么，听从我的建议，不要离开家那么远的地方旅行，也不要把你的财产留给家里这么危险的人；他们会吃掉你所有的一切，而你的任务将是愚蠢的。尽管如此，我还是建议你无论如何都去拜访墨涅拉俄斯，他最近刚刚结束了一次航行，穿越了如此遥远的民族，没有人希望从那里回来，风曾经把他带到了远离他的计算范围的地方。 ;即使是鸟儿也无法在十二个月内飞过这么远的距离，它们必须穿越的海洋是如此广阔和可怕。因此，带上你自己的人，乘海路去见他吧。或者，如果你想走陆路，你可以有战车，你可以有马，我的儿子们可以护送你到墨涅拉俄斯居住的拉栖代梦。请他说实话，他不会对你说谎，因为他是一个优秀的人。

As he spoke the sun set and it came on dark, whereon Minerva said, ‘Sir, all that you have said is well; now, however, order the tongues of the victims to be cut, and mix wine that we may make drink-offerings to Neptune, and the other immortals, and then go to bed, for it is bed time. People should go away early and not keep late hours at a religious festival.’
当他说话时，太阳落山了，天色也黑了，密涅瓦说：“先生，您所说的一切都很好；但现在，命令把受害者的舌头割掉，并混合酒，我们可以向海王星和其他神仙奠酒，然后上床睡觉，因为现在是睡觉时间了。人们应该早点离开，不要在宗教节日呆到很晚。”

Thus spoke the daughter of Jove, and they obeyed her saying. Men servants poured water over the hands of the guests, while pages filled the mixing-bowls with wine and water, and handed it round after giving every man his drink offering; then they threw the tongues of the victims into the fire, and stood up to make their drink offerings. When they had made their offerings and had drunk each as much as he was minded, Minerva and Telemachus were for going on board their ship, but Nestor caught them up at once and stayed them.
朱庇特的女儿如此说道，他们就听从了她的话。男仆将水倒在客人的手上，而侍者则将酒和水装满搅拌碗，并在给每个人献上奠祭后将其分发给每个人。然后他们把受害者的舌头扔进火里，并站起来献奠祭。当他们献完祭品并喝完自己想要喝的酒后，密涅瓦和忒勒马科斯准备上船，但内斯特立即抓住了他们并阻止了他们。

‘Heaven and the immortal gods,’ he exclaimed, ‘forbid that you should leave my house to go on board of a ship. Do you think I am so poor and short of clothes, or that I have so few cloaks and as to be unable to find comfortable beds both for myself and for my guests? Let me tell you I have store both of rugs and cloaks, and shall not permit the son of my old friend Ulysses to camp down on the deck of a ship—not while I live—nor yet will my sons after me, but they will keep open house as I have done.’
他大声说道：“上天和不朽的诸神，禁止你离开我的家上船。”你是否认为我很穷，缺衣服，或者我的斗篷很少，无法为自己和客人找到舒适的床？让我告诉你，我已经储存了地毯和斗篷，不会允许我的老朋友尤利西斯的儿子在一艘船的甲板上扎营——在我活着的时候——我的儿子们也不会在我身后，但他们会像我一样保持开放。

Then Minerva answered, ‘Sir, you have spoken well, and it will be much better that Telemachus should do as you have said; he, therefore, shall return with you and sleep at your house, but I must go back to give orders to my crew, and keep them in good heart. I am the only older person among them; the rest are all young men of Telemachus’ own age, who have taken this voyage out of friendship; so I must return to the ship and sleep there. Moreover to-morrow I must go to the Cauconians where I have a large sum of money long owing to me. As for Telemachus, now that he is your guest, send him to Lacedaemon in a chariot, and let one of your sons go with him. Be pleased to also provide him with your best and fleetest horses.’
密涅瓦回答说：“先生，您说得很好，特勒马科斯最好照您说的去做。因此，他会和你一起回去，睡在你家里，但我必须回去向我的船员下达命令，让他们保持良好的心态。我是他们中唯一年长的人；其余的都是与特勒马科斯同龄的年轻人，他们出于友谊而踏上这次航行。所以我必须回到船上并睡在那里。此外，明天我必须去考科尼亚，那里我长期欠着一大笔钱。至于特勒马科斯，现在他是您的客人，请派他乘坐战车前往拉栖代梦，并让您的一个儿子与他同行。也很高兴为他提供你最好、最快的马匹。

When she had thus spoken, she flew away in the form of an eagle, and all marvelled as they beheld it. Nestor was astonished, and took Telemachus by the hand. ‘My friend,’ said he, ‘I see that you are going to be a great hero some day, since the gods wait upon you thus while you are still so young. This can have been none other of those who dwell in heaven than Jove’s redoubtable daughter, the Trito-born, who shewed such favour towards your brave father among the Argives. Holy queen,’ he continued, ‘vouchsafe to send down thy grace upon myself, my good wife, and my children. In return, I will offer you in sacrifice a broad-browed heifer of a year old, unbroken, and never yet brought by man under the yoke. I will gild her horns, and will offer her up to you in sacrifice.’
说完，她化作一只鹰飞走了，所有人都惊叹不已。内斯特很惊讶，拉着忒勒马科斯的手。 “我的朋友，”他说，“我看到你有一天会成为一位伟大的英雄，因为当你还那么年轻的时候，诸神就这样侍候着你。”这不可能是居住在天堂的其他人，正是朱庇特令人敬畏的女儿，特里托出生的人，她对你在阿尔戈斯人中勇敢的父亲表现出了如此的宠爱。神圣的女王，”他继续说道，“请赐予我、我的好妻子和我的孩子们您的恩典。作为回报，我将向你献上一头一岁的宽眉小母牛作为祭品，它完好无损，而且从未被人类置于轭下。我会给她的角镀金，并将她献给你作为祭品。

Thus did he pray, and Minerva heard his prayer. He then led the way to his own house, followed by his sons and sons in law. When they had got there and had taken their places on the benches and seats, he mixed them a bowl of sweet wine that was eleven years old when the housekeeper took the lid off the jar that held it. As he mixed the wine, he prayed much and made drink offerings to Minerva, daughter of Aegis-bearing Jove. Then, when they had made their drink offerings and had drunk each as much as he was minded, the others went home to bed each in his own abode; but Nestor put Telemachus to sleep in the room that was over the gateway along with Pisistratus, who was the only unmarried son now left him. As for himself, he slept in an inner room of the house, with the queen his wife by his side.
他如此祈祷，密涅瓦听到了他的祈祷。然后他带路回到自己的家，后面跟着他的儿子女婿。当他们到达那里并在长凳和座位上就座后，他给他们调了一碗甜酒，当管家打开罐子的盖子时，这碗酒已经有十一年了。当他调酒时，他进行了很多祈祷，并向持有宙斯之神宙斯的女儿密涅瓦献上奠祭。然后，当他们献完奠祭，各人喝了自己想喝的酒后，其他人就回家，各在自己的住处睡觉。但内斯特让忒勒马科斯和皮西斯特拉图斯一起睡在大门上方的房间里，皮西斯特拉图斯是他现在唯一离开的未婚儿子。至于他自己，他睡在房子的内室里，他的妻子王后就睡在他身边。

Now when the child of morning rosy-fingered Dawn appeared, Nestor left his couch and took his seat on the benches of white and polished marble that stood in front of his house. Here aforetime sat Neleus, peer of gods in counsel, but he was now dead, and had gone to the house of Hades; so Nestor sat in his seat sceptre in hand, as guardian of the public weal. His sons as they left their rooms gathered round him, Echephron, Stratius, Perseus, Aretus, and Thrasymedes; the sixth son was Pisistratus, and when Telemachus joined them they made him sit with them. Nestor then addressed them.
现在，当早晨玫瑰色手指黎明的孩子出现时，内斯特离开沙发，坐在他家门前的白色抛光大理石长凳上。涅琉斯曾坐在这里，他是众神中的一员，但现在他已经死了，去了哈迪斯的宫殿。于是内斯特坐在自己的座位上，手里拿着权杖，作为公共福利的守护者。当他的儿子们离开房间时，埃切弗隆、斯特拉提乌斯、珀尔修斯、阿雷图斯和色拉叙墨德斯聚集在他周围。第六个儿子是庇西特拉图，当忒勒马科斯加入他们时，他们让他和他们坐在一起。内斯特随后向他们讲话。

‘My sons,’ said he, ‘make haste to do as I shall bid you. I wish first and foremost to propitiate the great goddess Minerva, who manifested herself visibly to me during yesterday’s festivities. Go, then, one or other of you to the plain, tell the stockman to look me out a heifer, and come on here with it at once. Another must go to Telemachus’ ship, and invite all the crew, leaving two men only in charge of the vessel. Some one else will run and fetch Laerceus the goldsmith to gild the horns of the heifer. The rest, stay all of you where you are; tell the maids in the house to prepare an excellent dinner, and to fetch seats, and logs of wood for a burnt offering. Tell them also to bring me some clear spring water.’
“我的孩子们，”他说，“赶紧按照我吩咐你们的去做吧。”我首先希望安​​抚伟大的密涅瓦女神，她在昨天的庆祝活动中向我显现。那么，你们中的一个人到平原去，告诉畜牧人给我找一头小母牛，然后马上带着它到这里来。另一个人必须前往特勒马科斯的船，并邀请所有船员，只留下两个人负责这艘船。其他人会跑去请金匠拉尔宙斯来给小母牛的角镀金。其余的，你们都留在原地；吩咐屋里的女仆准备丰盛的晚餐，并拿来座位和木头作为燔祭。还叫他们给我拿点清澈的泉水来。

On this they hurried off on their several errands. The heifer was brought in from the plain, and Telemachus’s crew came from the ship; the goldsmith brought the anvil, hammer, and tongs, with which he worked his gold, and Minerva herself came to accept the sacrifice. Nestor gave out the gold, and the smith gilded the horns of the heifer that the goddess might have pleasure in their beauty. Then Stratius and Echephron brought her in by the horns; Aretus fetched water from the house in a ewer that had a flower pattern on it, and in his other hand he held a basket of barley meal; sturdy Thrasymedes stood by with a sharp axe, ready to strike the heifer, while Perseus held a bucket. Then Nestor began with washing his hands and sprinkling the barley meal, and he offered many a prayer to Minerva as he threw a lock from the heifer’s head upon the fire.
说完，他们就匆匆忙忙地去办几件事情了。小母牛是从平原运来的，忒勒马科斯的船员们也从船上来了。金匠带来了铁砧、锤子和钳子，他用它们加工金子，密涅瓦本人也来接受祭品。内斯特分发了金子，铁匠给小母牛的角镀了金，以便女神欣赏它们的美丽。然后斯特拉提乌斯和埃切弗隆把她带了进来。阿雷图斯用一个带有花朵图案的水壶从屋里取水，另一只手拿着一篮子大麦粉。强壮的色拉西米得斯拿着一把锋利的斧头站在一旁，准备攻击小母牛，而珀尔修斯则拿着一个水桶。然后内斯特开始洗手并撒上大麦粉，他一边向密涅瓦祈祷，一边把小母牛头上的一根锁扔到火上。

When they had done praying and sprinkling the barley meal {32} Thrasymedes dealt his blow, and brought the heifer down with a stroke that cut through the tendons at the base of her neck, whereon the daughters and daughters in law of Nestor, and his venerable wife Eurydice (she was eldest daughter to Clymenus) screamed with delight. Then they lifted the heifer’s head from off the ground, and Pisistratus cut her throat. When she had done bleeding and was quite dead, they cut her up. They cut out the thigh bones all in due course, wrapped them round in two layers of fat, and set some pieces of raw meat on the top of them; then Nestor laid them upon the wood fire and poured wine over them, while the young men stood near him with five-pronged spits in their hands. When the thighs were burned and they had tasted the inward meats, they cut the rest of the meat up small, put the pieces on the spits and toasted them over the fire.
当他们祈祷并撒上大麦粉时，{32}色拉西米德斯发动了他的打击，并用一击将小母牛打倒了，这一击穿过了她脖子根部的肌腱，内斯特的女儿和儿媳妇以及他的女儿们都被击中了。令人尊敬的妻子欧律狄刻（她是克吕梅努斯的长女）高兴地尖叫起来。然后他们把小母牛的头从地上抬起来，皮西斯特拉图割断了她的喉咙。当她流血而死后，他们把她切碎了。到了适当的时候，他们把大腿骨全部切下来，用两层脂肪包裹起来，上面放上一些生肉；然后内斯特把它们放在柴火上，并在上面倒酒，而年轻人站在他旁边，手里拿着五爪烤叉。当大腿被烧焦并尝到里面的肉时，他们把剩下的肉切成小块，放在烤肉叉上，在火上烤。

Meanwhile lovely Polycaste, Nestor’s youngest daughter, washed Telemachus. When she had washed him and anointed him with oil, she brought him a fair mantle and shirt, {33} and he looked like a god as he came from the bath and took his seat by the side of Nestor. When the outer meats were done they drew them off the spits and sat down to dinner where they were waited upon by some worthy henchmen, who kept pouring them out their wine in cups of gold. As soon as they had had enough to eat and drink Nestor said, ‘Sons, put Telemachus’s horses to the chariot that he may start at once.’
与此同时，内斯托尔最小的女儿可爱的波利卡斯特正在清洗忒勒马科斯。当她给他清洗并用油膏抹他时，她给他带来了一件漂亮的斗篷和衬衫，{33}当他从浴室出来并坐在内斯特旁边时，他看起来就像一个神。当外层的肉吃完后，他们把肉从烤肉叉上取下来，坐下来吃晚饭，一些可敬的追随者伺候着他们，他们不断地用金杯倒酒。他们吃饱喝足后，内斯特说道：“孩子们，把特勒马科斯的马放到战车上，让他立即出发。”

Thus did he speak, and they did even as he had said, and yoked the fleet horses to the chariot. The housekeeper packed them up a provision of bread, wine, and sweet meats fit for the sons of princes. Then Telemachus got into the chariot, while Pisistratus gathered up the reins and took his seat beside him. He lashed the horses on and they flew forward nothing loth into the open country, leaving the high citadel of Pylos behind them. All that day did they travel, swaying the yoke upon their necks till the sun went down and darkness was over all the land. Then they reached Pherae where Diocles lived, who was son to Ortilochus and grandson to Alpheus. Here they passed the night and Diocles entertained them hospitably. When the child of morning, rosy-fingered Dawn, appeared, they again yoked their horses and drove out through the gateway under the echoing gatehouse. {34} Pisistratus lashed the horses on and they flew forward nothing loth; presently they came to the corn lands of the open country, and in the course of time completed their journey, so well did their steeds take them. {35}
他这样说，他们就照他所说的去做，把战马拴在战车上。管家给他们准备了适合王子们吃的面包、酒和甜肉。然后忒勒马科斯上了战车，皮西斯特拉图收起缰绳，坐在他旁边。他把马拴在身上，马匹毫不犹豫地向前飞去，进入了空旷的乡村，把高耸的皮洛斯城堡抛在了身后。他们一整天都在旅行，摇晃着脖子上的轭，直到太阳落山，黑暗笼罩了大地。然后他们到达了戴奥克勒斯（Diocles）居住的菲莱（Pherae），戴奥克勒斯是奥尔提洛科斯（Ortilochus）的儿子，阿尔菲斯（Alpheus）的孙子。他们在这里过夜，戴奥克勒斯热情款待了他们。当早晨的孩子，玫瑰色手指的黎明出现时，他们再次套上马匹，从回响着的门楼下的大门出发。 {34}皮西斯特拉图斯鞭打马匹，马匹毫不犹豫地向前飞去；不久，他们来到了空旷地区的玉米地，随着时间的推移，他们的战马顺利地完成了他们的旅程。 {35}

Now when the sun had set and darkness was over the land,
现在，当太阳落山，黑暗笼罩大地时，

BOOK IV
第四册

THE VISIT TO KING MENELAUS, WHO TELLS HIS STORY—MEANWHILE THE SUITORS IN ITHACA PLOT AGAINST TELEMACHUS.
拜访国王墨涅拉俄斯，他讲述了他的故事——与此同时，伊萨卡的求婚者密谋反对忒勒马科斯。

They reached the low lying city of Lacedaemon, where they drove straight to the abode of Menelaus {36} [and found him in his own house, feasting with his many clansmen in honour of the wedding of his son, and also of his daughter, whom he was marrying to the son of that valiant warrior Achilles. He had given his consent and promised her to him while he was still at Troy, and now the gods were bringing the marriage about; so he was sending her with chariots and horses to the city of the Myrmidons over whom Achilles’ son was reigning. For his only son he had found a bride from Sparta, {37} the daughter of Alector. This son, Megapenthes, was born to him of a bondwoman, for heaven vouchsafed Helen no more children after she had borne Hermione, who was fair as golden Venus herself.
他们到达了地势低洼的拉栖代梦城，在那里他们直接驱车前往墨涅拉俄斯的住所{36}[发现他在自己的家里，与他的许多族人一起庆祝他儿子和女儿的婚礼，他嫁给了勇敢的战士阿喀琉斯的儿子。当他还在特洛伊时，他就同意了，并把她许诺给他，现在众神正在促成这桩婚姻。于是他派她带着战车和马匹前往阿喀琉斯儿子所统治的米尔米东城。他为他唯一的儿子找到了一位来自斯巴达的新娘，{37}是阿勒克托的女儿。这个儿子，梅加彭忒斯，是他的一个女奴所生，因为上天不再赐予海伦在生下赫敏之后再有孩子，赫敏就像金色的维纳斯一样美丽。

So the neighbours and kinsmen of Menelaus were feasting and making merry in his house. There was a bard also to sing to them and play his lyre, while two tumblers went about performing in the midst of them when the man struck up with his tune.] {38}
于是，墨涅拉俄斯的邻居和亲戚们在他的家里尽情享受欢乐。还有一个吟游诗人向他们唱歌并弹奏竖琴，当那个人开始演奏他的曲子时，两个不倒翁在他们中间表演。] {38}

Telemachus and the son of Nestor stayed their horses at the gate, whereon Eteoneus servant to Menelaus came out, and as soon as he saw them ran hurrying back into the house to tell his Master. He went close up to him and said, ‘Menelaus, there are some strangers come here, two men, who look like sons of Jove. What are we to do? Shall we take their horses out, or tell them to find friends elsewhere as they best can?’
忒勒马科斯和内斯特的儿子把马停在门口，墨涅拉俄斯的仆人埃忒奥纽斯就从门口出来，他一看到他们就急忙跑回屋去告诉他的主人。他走近他说：“墨涅拉俄斯，有两个陌生人来到这里，他们看起来像朱庇特的儿子。”我们接下来干吗？我们应该把他们的马赶出去，还是告诉他们尽其所能去别处寻找朋友？

Menelaus was very angry and said, ‘Eteoneus, son of Boethous, you never used to be a fool, but now you talk like a simpleton. Take their horses out, of course, and show the strangers in that they may have supper; you and I have staid often enough at other people’s houses before we got back here, where heaven grant that we may rest in peace henceforward.’
墨涅拉俄斯非常生气，说道：“波伊托斯的儿子埃忒奥纽斯，你以前从来都不是个傻瓜，但现在你却像个傻瓜一样说话了。”当然，要把他们的马牵出来，带陌生人去吃晚饭。在我们回到这里之前，你和我已经在别人家里呆够了，愿上帝保佑我们从此可以安息。

So Eteoneus bustled back and bade the other servants come with him. They took their sweating steeds from under the yoke, made them fast to the mangers, and gave them a feed of oats and barley mixed. Then they leaned the chariot against the end wall of the courtyard, and led the way into the house. Telemachus and Pisistratus were astonished when they saw it, for its splendour was as that of the sun and moon; then, when they had admired everything to their heart’s content, they went into the bath room and washed themselves.
于是埃托纽斯赶紧回来，吩咐其他仆人跟他一起去。他们把满头大汗的马从轭下取下来，把它们拴在马槽上，给它们喂燕麦和大麦混合的饲料。然后他们把战车靠在院子的墙边，领着进了屋子。忒勒马科斯和庇西斯特拉图看到它时都大吃一惊，因为它的光辉如同太阳和月亮一样。然后，当他们心满意足地欣赏完一切后，他们就走进浴室洗澡了。

When the servants had washed them and anointed them with oil, they brought them woollen cloaks and shirts, and the two took their seats by the side of Menelaus. A maid-servant brought them water in a beautiful golden ewer, and poured it into a silver basin for them to wash their hands; and she drew a clean table beside them. An upper servant brought them bread, and offered them many good things of what there was in the house, while the carver fetched them plates of all manner of meats and set cups of gold by their side.
仆人们给他们清洗干净并涂上油后，给他们拿来了羊毛斗篷和衬衫，两人在墨涅拉俄斯旁边坐下。一个女仆用一个漂亮的金壶给他们端来水，倒进一个银盆里，让他们洗手。她在他们旁边画了一张干净的桌子。一个上层仆人给他们带来了面包，并为他们提供了家里所有的许多好东西，而雕刻师则给他们拿来了各种各样的肉类，并在他们旁边放了金杯。

Menelaus then greeted them saying, ‘Fall to, and welcome; when you have done supper I shall ask who you are, for the lineage of such men as you cannot have been lost. You must be descended from a line of sceptre-bearing kings, for poor people do not have such sons as you are.’
墨涅拉俄斯向他们致意，说道：“欢迎你们前来，欢迎光临。”当你吃完晚饭后，我会问你是谁，因为像你这样的人的血统不可能消失。你一定是掌权国王的后裔，因为穷人没有像你这样的儿子。

On this he handed them {39} a piece of fat roast loin, which had been set near him as being a prime part, and they laid their hands on the good things that were before them; as soon as they had had enough to eat and drink, Telemachus said to the son of Nestor, with his head so close that no one might hear, ‘Look, Pisistratus, man after my own heart, see the gleam of bronze and gold—of amber, {40} ivory, and silver. Everything is so splendid that it is like seeing the palace of Olympian Jove. I am lost in admiration.’
对此，他递给他们{39}一块肥美的烤腰肉，这是放在他附近的主要部分，他们把手放在了他们面前的好东西上；当他们吃饱喝足后，特勒马科斯对内斯特的儿子说，他的头离得如此之近，以至于没有人能听到，“看，皮西斯特拉图，合我心意的人，看青铜和金子的光芒——琥珀、{40}象牙和银。一切都是那么金碧辉煌，就像看到了奥林匹亚朱庇特的宫殿一样。我陷入了钦佩之中。

Menelaus overheard him and said, ‘No one, my sons, can hold his own with Jove, for his house and everything about him is immortal; but among mortal men—well, there may be another who has as much wealth as I have, or there may not; but at all events I have travelled much and have undergone much hardship, for it was nearly eight years before I could get home with my fleet. I went to Cyprus, Phoenicia and the Egyptians; I went also to the Ethiopians, the Sidonians, and the Erembians, and to Libya where the lambs have horns as soon as they are born, and the sheep lamb down three times a year. Every one in that country, whether master or man, has plenty of cheese, meat, and good milk, for the ewes yield all the year round. But while I was travelling and getting great riches among these people, my brother was secretly and shockingly murdered through the perfidy of his wicked wife, so that I have no pleasure in being lord of all this wealth. Whoever your parents may be they must have told you about all this, and of my heavy loss in the ruin {41} of a stately mansion fully and magnificently furnished. Would that I had only a third of what I now have so that I had stayed at home, and all those were living who perished on the plain of Troy, far from Argos. I often grieve, as I sit here in my house, for one and all of them. At times I cry aloud for sorrow, but presently I leave off again, for crying is cold comfort and one soon tires of it. Yet grieve for these as I may, I do so for one man more than for them all. I cannot even think of him without loathing both food and sleep, so miserable does he make me, for no one of all the Achaeans worked so hard or risked so much as he did. He took nothing by it, and has left a legacy of sorrow to myself, for he has been gone a long time, and we know not whether he is alive or dead. His old father, his long-suffering wife Penelope, and his son Telemachus, whom he left behind him an infant in arms, are plunged in grief on his account.’
墨涅拉俄斯无意中听到他说：“我的孩子们，没有人能与朱庇特保持一致，因为他的房屋和他周围的一切都是不朽的；但在凡人中——嗯，可能有另一个人拥有和我一样多的财富，也可能没有。但无论如何，我已经旅行了很多，也经历了很多困难，因为我花了将近八年的时间才带着我的舰队回家。我去了塞浦路斯、腓尼基和埃及；我还去了埃塞俄比亚人、西顿人、埃伦比亚人，以及利比亚，那里的羊羔一出生就有角，羊一年下3次羔羊。那个国家的每个人，无论是主人还是男人，都有充足的奶酪、肉类和优质牛奶，因为母羊一年四季都有产量。但当我在这些人中旅行并获得巨额财富时，我的兄弟因他邪恶的妻子的背信弃义而被秘密而令人震惊地谋杀，因此我对成为所有这些财富的主人感到不高兴。无论你的父母是谁，他们一定已经告诉过你这一切，以及我在一座家具齐全、华丽的豪宅被毁{41}中所遭受的沉重损失。但愿我的财产只有现在的三分之一，这样我就可以待在家里，而所有那些还活着的人都死在远离阿尔戈斯的特洛伊平原上。当我坐在家里时，我经常为他们中的一个人和所有人感到悲伤。有时我会因悲伤而大声哭泣，但很快我又停止了，因为哭泣是冰冷的安慰，很快就会厌倦。然而，尽管我为这些人感到悲伤，但我为一个人而不是为所有人而悲伤。我什至一想到他就会厌恶食物和睡眠，他让我如此痛苦，因为所有亚该亚人中没有一个人像他一样努力工作或冒如此大的风险。 他没有带走任何东西，给我留下了悲伤的遗产，因为他已经去世很久了，我们不知道他是活着还是死了。他年迈的父亲、长期受苦受难的妻子佩内洛普（Penelope）和他的儿子忒勒马科斯（他将婴儿抱在怀里）都因他而陷入悲痛之中。’

Thus spoke Menelaus, and the heart of Telemachus yearned as he bethought him of his father. Tears fell from his eyes as he heard him thus mentioned, so that he held his cloak before his face with both hands. When Menelaus saw this he doubted whether to let him choose his own time for speaking, or to ask him at once and find what it was all about.
墨涅拉俄斯如是说道，当忒勒马科斯想起他的父亲时，他的心中充满了渴望。听到他这样说，他的眼泪夺眶而出，于是他用双手将斗篷挡在脸上。墨涅拉俄斯见状，犹豫着是让他自己选择说话的时间，还是立即询问他，弄清楚到底是怎么回事。

While he was thus in two minds Helen came down from her high vaulted and perfumed room, looking as lovely as Diana herself. Adraste brought her a seat, Alcippe a soft woollen rug while Phylo fetched her the silver work-box which Alcandra wife of Polybus had given her. Polybus lived in Egyptian Thebes, which is the richest city in the whole world; he gave Menelaus two baths, both of pure silver, two tripods, and ten talents of gold; besides all this, his wife gave Helen some beautiful presents, to wit, a golden distaff, and a silver work box that ran on wheels, with a gold band round the top of it. Phylo now placed this by her side, full of fine spun yarn, and a distaff charged with violet coloured wool was laid upon the top of it. Then Helen took her seat, put her feet upon the footstool, and began to question her husband. {42}
正当他心存二念之时，海伦从她那高高的拱形、芬芳的房间里走下来，看上去和戴安娜本人一样可爱。阿德拉斯特给她带来了一个座位，阿尔西佩给了她一张柔软的羊毛地毯，而菲洛则给她拿了波吕波斯的阿尔坎德拉妻子给她的银色工作箱。波吕波斯住在埃及的底比斯，这是全世界最富有的城市。他给了墨涅拉俄斯两个浴缸，都是纯银的，两个三脚架和十他连得的黄金。除此之外，他的妻子还送给海伦一些漂亮的礼物，即一根金色的棍子和一个带轮子的银色工作箱，上面有一条金色的带子。菲洛现在把它放在她身边，里面装满了细纱，上面放着一根装有紫色羊毛的纺线。然后海伦坐了下来，把脚放在脚凳上，开始询问丈夫。 {42}

‘Do we know, Menelaus,’ said she, ‘the names of these strangers who have come to visit us? Shall I guess right or wrong?—but I cannot help saying what I think. Never yet have I seen either man or woman so like somebody else (indeed when I look at him I hardly know what to think) as this young man is like Telemachus, whom Ulysses left as a baby behind him, when you Achaeans went to Troy with battle in your hearts, on account of my most shameless self.’
“墨涅拉俄斯，我们知道这些来拜访我们的陌生人的名字吗？”她说道。我猜对还是猜错？——但我忍不住说出我的想法。我从来没有见过一个男人或女人如此像其他人（事实上，当我看着他时，我几乎不知道该怎么想），因为这个年轻人就像特勒马科斯，当你们亚该亚人前往特洛伊时，尤利西斯在他还是个婴儿时就将他留在了身后为了我最无耻的自己，你们心中充满了战斗。

‘My dear wife,’ replied Menelaus, ‘I see the likeness just as you do. His hands and feet are just like Ulysses; so is his hair, with the shape of his head and the expression of his eyes. Moreover, when I was talking about Ulysses, and saying how much he had suffered on my account, tears fell from his eyes, and he hid his face in his mantle.’
“我亲爱的妻子，”墨涅拉俄斯回答道，“我和你看到的一样。他的手脚就像尤利西斯；他的头发、头部的形状和眼睛的表情也是如此。此外，当我谈到尤利西斯，并说他因我而受了多少苦时，泪水从他的眼中流下来，他把脸埋在斗篷里。

Then Pisistratus said, ‘Menelaus, son of Atreus, you are right in thinking that this young man is Telemachus, but he is very modest, and is ashamed to come here and begin opening up discourse with one whose conversation is so divinely interesting as your own. My father, Nestor, sent me to escort him hither, for he wanted to know whether you could give him any counsel or suggestion. A son has always trouble at home when his father has gone away leaving him without supporters; and this is how Telemachus is now placed, for his father is absent, and there is no one among his own people to stand by him.’
皮西斯特拉图斯说道：“阿特柔斯之子墨涅拉俄斯，你认为这个年轻人就是特勒马科斯是对的，但他非常谦虚，羞于来到这里与一个像你这样对话如此有趣的人展开对话。”自己的。我的父亲内斯特派我护送他来这里，因为他想知道你是否可以给他任何忠告或建议。当父亲离开，无人支持时，儿子在家里总是会遇到麻烦。这就是特勒马科斯现在的处境，因为他的父亲不在，他的同胞中也没有人支持他。

‘Bless my heart,’ replied Menelaus, ‘then I am receiving a visit from the son of a very dear friend, who suffered much hardship for my sake. I had always hoped to entertain him with most marked distinction when heaven had granted us a safe return from beyond the seas. I should have founded a city for him in Argos, and built him a house. I should have made him leave Ithaca with his goods, his son, and all his people, and should have sacked for them some one of the neighbouring cities that are subject to me. We should thus have seen one another continually, and nothing but death could have interrupted so close and happy an intercourse. I suppose, however, that heaven grudged us such great good fortune, for it has prevented the poor fellow from ever getting home at all.’
“保佑我的心吧，”墨涅拉俄斯回答道，“那么，我一位非常亲密的朋友的儿子来拜访我，他为了我受了很多苦难。当上天赐予我们从大洋彼岸安全返回时，我一直希望以最显着的方式招待他。我应该在阿尔戈斯为他建立一座城市，并为他建造一座房屋。我本应让他带着他的财产、他的儿子和所有人民离开伊萨卡，并为他们洗劫一处属于我的邻近城市。因此，我们应该不断地见面，除了死亡之外，没有什么可以中断如此亲密而幸福的交往。不过，我想上天不愿意我们有这么好的运气，因为它阻止了这个可怜的家伙回家。

Thus did he speak, and his words set them all a weeping. Helen wept, Telemachus wept, and so did Menelaus, nor could Pisistratus keep his eyes from filling, when he remembered his dear brother Antilochus whom the son of bright Dawn had killed. Thereon he said to Menelaus,
他如此说道，他的话让他们都落泪了。海伦哭了，忒勒马科斯哭了，墨涅拉俄斯也哭了，皮西斯特拉图斯想起他亲爱的兄弟安提洛科斯，他被光明之子杀死了，他的眼睛也忍不住流泪。于是他对墨涅拉俄斯说：

‘Sir, my father Nestor, when we used to talk about you at home, told me you were a person of rare and excellent understanding. If, then, it be possible, do as I would urge you. I am not fond of crying while I am getting my supper. Morning will come in due course, and in the forenoon I care not how much I cry for those that are dead and gone. This is all we can do for the poor things. We can only shave our heads for them and wring the tears from our cheeks. I had a brother who died at Troy; he was by no means the worst man there; you are sure to have known him—his name was Antilochus; I never set eyes upon him myself, but they say that he was singularly fleet of foot and in fight valiant.’
“先生，我的父亲内斯特，当我们在家谈论您时，他告诉我您是一个罕见且具有出色理解力的人。那么，如果可能的话，就按照我的劝告去做吧。我不喜欢在吃晚饭的时候哭。早晨会在适当的时候到来，在上午，我不在乎为那些死去的人和离去的人哭泣多少。这就是我们能为穷人做的一切了。我们只能为他们剃光头，拧干脸颊的泪水。我有一个兄弟死在特洛伊；他绝不是那里最糟糕的人。你肯定认识他——他的名字叫安提洛科斯；我本人从未亲眼见过他，但他们说他脚步敏捷，战斗英勇。

‘Your discretion, my friend,’ answered Menelaus, ‘is beyond your years. It is plain you take after your father. One can soon see when a man is son to one whom heaven has blessed both as regards wife and offspring—and it has blessed Nestor from first to last all his days, giving him a green old age in his own house, with sons about him who are both well disposed and valiant. We will put an end therefore to all this weeping, and attend to our supper again. Let water be poured over our hands. Telemachus and I can talk with one another fully in the morning.’
“我的朋友，你的判断力超出了你的年龄。”墨涅拉俄斯回答道。很明显，你很像你的父亲。人们很快就能看出，一个男人是上天赐福于妻子和后代的儿子——内斯特自始至终都受到上天的祝福，让他在自己的家里度过了一个绿色的晚年，儿子们都在他身边。他们既善良又勇敢。因此，我们将结束这一切哭泣，并再次参加我们的晚餐。让水倒在我们的手上。特勒马科斯和我一早上就能充分交谈。

On this Asphalion, one of the servants, poured water over their hands and they laid their hands on the good things that were before them.
一位仆人将水倒在阿斯法利翁的手上，然后他们把手放在了面前的好东西上。

Then Jove’s daughter Helen bethought her of another matter. She drugged the wine with an herb that banishes all care, sorrow, and ill humour. Whoever drinks wine thus drugged cannot shed a single tear all the rest of the day, not even though his father and mother both of them drop down dead, or he sees a brother or a son hewn in pieces before his very eyes. This drug, of such sovereign power and virtue, had been given to Helen by Polydamna wife of Thon, a woman of Egypt, where there grow all sorts of herbs, some good to put into the mixing bowl and others poisonous. Moreover, every one in the whole country is a skilled physician, for they are of the race of Paeeon. When Helen had put this drug in the bowl, and had told the servants to serve the wine round, she said:
这时，朱庇特的女儿海伦想到了另一件事。她在酒中加入了一种药草，可以消除所有的忧虑、悲伤和坏脾气。喝了如此药酒的人，即使父母双双倒地身亡，或者亲眼目睹兄弟、儿子被肢解，终日也不能流一滴眼泪。这种具有如此至高无上的力量和美德的药物是由埃及妇女索恩的妻子波利达姆娜送给海伦的，那里生长着各种各样的草药，有些可以放入搅拌碗中，有些有毒。而且，全国的人个个都是医术高明的医生，因为他们都是佩恩种族。当海伦把这种药放进碗里，吩咐仆人把酒端上来后，她说道：

‘Menelaus, son of Atreus, and you my good friends, sons of honourable men (which is as Jove wills, for he is the giver both of good and evil, and can do what he chooses), feast here as you will, and listen while I tell you a tale in season. I cannot indeed name every single one of the exploits of Ulysses, but I can say what he did when he was before Troy, and you Achaeans were in all sorts of difficulties. He covered himself with wounds and bruises, dressed himself all in rags, and entered the enemy’s city looking like a menial or a beggar, and quite different from what he did when he was among his own people. In this disguise he entered the city of Troy, and no one said anything to him. I alone recognised him and began to question him, but he was too cunning for me. When, however, I had washed and anointed him and had given him clothes, and after I had sworn a solemn oath not to betray him to the Trojans till he had got safely back to his own camp and to the ships, he told me all that the Achaeans meant to do. He killed many Trojans and got much information before he reached the Argive camp, for all which things the Trojan women made lamentation, but for my own part I was glad, for my heart was beginning to yearn after my home, and I was unhappy about the wrong that Venus had done me in taking me over there, away from my country, my girl, and my lawful wedded husband, who is indeed by no means deficient either in person or understanding.’
“墨涅拉俄斯，阿特柔斯之子，还有你们，我的好朋友，正人君子的儿子们（正如朱庇特所愿，因为他是善恶的赐予者，并且可以做他所选择的事情），随你们的意愿在这里享用盛宴，并且听我讲一个当季的故事。我确实无法说出尤利西斯的每一项功绩，但我可以说出他在特洛伊之前所做的一切，而你们亚该亚人正处于各种困难之中。他浑身伤痕累累，衣衫褴褛，以一个仆人或乞丐的样子进入敌城，与在自己人中时的样子截然不同。他乔装打扮进入特洛伊城，没有人对他说任何话。只有我认出了他，并开始质问他，但他对我来说太狡猾了。然而，当我给他洗澡、涂油、给他衣服，并庄严宣誓，在他安全回到自己的营地和船上之前，不会把他出卖给特洛伊人之后，他告诉了我一切。这是亚该亚人想要做的。在到达阿尔戈斯营地之前，他杀了很多特洛伊人，得到了很多情报，特洛伊妇女们都为这一切而哀叹，但我自己却很高兴，因为我的心开始思念我的家，而我却为之感到不高兴。金星把我带到那里，离开了我的国家、我的女儿和我的合法丈夫，这对我来说是错误的，他确实在人性和理解力上都毫不缺乏。

Then Menelaus said, ‘All that you have been saying, my dear wife, is true. I have travelled much, and have had much to do with heroes, but I have never seen such another man as Ulysses. What endurance too, and what courage he displayed within the wooden horse, wherein all the bravest of the Argives were lying in wait to bring death and destruction upon the Trojans. {43} At that moment you came up to us; some god who wished well to the Trojans must have set you on to it and you had Deiphobus with you. Three times did you go all round our hiding place and pat it; you called our chiefs each by his own name, and mimicked all our wives—Diomed, Ulysses, and I from our seats inside heard what a noise you made. Diomed and I could not make up our minds whether to spring out then and there, or to answer you from inside, but Ulysses held us all in check, so we sat quite still, all except Anticlus, who was beginning to answer you, when Ulysses clapped his two brawny hands over his mouth, and kept them there. It was this that saved us all, for he muzzled Anticlus till Minerva took you away again.’
墨涅拉俄斯说道：“我亲爱的妻子，你所说的一切都是真的。我旅行过很多地方，也与英雄有过很多接触，但我从未见过像尤利西斯这样的人。他在木马中表现出了多么大的忍耐力和勇气，所有最勇敢的阿尔戈斯人都在木马里等待着给特洛伊人带来死亡和毁灭。 {43}就在那一刻，你向我们走来；一定是某个向特洛伊人表示祝福的神让你去的，而且你还带着戴福波斯。你绕着我们的藏身处拍了三遍；你们用自己的名字称呼我们的首领，并模仿我们所有的妻子——迪奥梅德、尤利西斯，我在里面的座位上听到了你们发出的声音。狄俄墨德和我无法决定是当场跳出来，还是从里面回答你，但尤利西斯控制了我们所有人，所以我们一动不动地坐着，除了安提克勒斯，他正开始回答你，当尤利西斯用两只粗壮的手捂住嘴，并保持在那里。正是这一点拯救了我们所有人，因为他封住了安提克勒斯的嘴，直到密涅瓦再次把你带走。

‘How sad,’ exclaimed Telemachus, ‘that all this was of no avail to save him, nor yet his own iron courage. But now, sir, be pleased to send us all to bed, that we may lie down and enjoy the blessed boon of sleep.’
“多么悲哀啊，”忒勒马科斯惊呼道，“这一切都无法拯救他，连他自己钢铁般的勇气也无法拯救他。”但现在，先生，请高兴地送我们大家上床睡觉，这样我们就可以躺下来享受睡眠的幸福恩惠了。”

On this Helen told the maid servants to set beds in the room that was in the gatehouse, and to make them with good red rugs, and spread coverlets on the top of them with woollen cloaks for the guests to wear. So the maids went out, carrying a torch, and made the beds, to which a man-servant presently conducted the strangers. Thus, then, did Telemachus and Pisistratus sleep there in the forecourt, while the son of Atreus lay in an inner room with lovely Helen by his side.
于是，海伦吩咐女仆们在门房的房间里摆上床铺，铺上上好的红地毯，上面铺上被子，上面铺上羊毛斗篷，供客人穿。于是女仆们拿着火把出去铺好床铺，一个男仆很快就把这些陌生人引到了床上。因此，特勒马科斯和庇西斯特拉图就睡在前院，而阿特柔斯的儿子则躺在里面的房间里，可爱的海伦在他身边。

When the child of morning, rosy-fingered Dawn appeared, Menelaus rose and dressed himself. He bound his sandals on to his comely feet, girded his sword about his shoulders, and left his room looking like an immortal god. Then, taking a seat near Telemachus he said:
当早晨的孩子、玫瑰色手指的黎明出现时，墨涅拉俄斯站起来穿好衣服。他把凉鞋绑在漂亮的脚上，把剑挂在肩上，离开房间时看起来就像一位不朽的神。然后，他在忒勒马科斯附近坐下说道：

‘And what, Telemachus, has led you to take this long sea voyage to Lacedaemon? Are you on public, or private business? Tell me all about it.’
“那么，忒勒马科斯，是什么促使你踏上这次前往拉栖代梦的长途航海呢？”您从事公共业务还是私人业务？告诉我一切。

‘I have come, sir,’ replied Telemachus, ‘to see if you can tell me anything about my father. I am being eaten out of house and home; my fair estate is being wasted, and my house is full of miscreants who keep killing great numbers of my sheep and oxen, on the pretence of paying their addresses to my mother. Therefore, I am suppliant at your knees if haply you may tell me about my father’s melancholy end, whether you saw it with your own eyes, or heard it from some other traveller; for he was a man born to trouble. Do not soften things out of any pity for myself, but tell me in all plainness exactly what you saw. If my brave father Ulysses ever did you loyal service either by word or deed, when you Achaeans were harassed by the Trojans, bear it in mind now as in my favour and tell me truly all.’
“先生，我来了，”忒勒马科斯回答道，“想看看您能否告诉我一些关于我父亲的事情。”我在外面和家里都被吃掉了；我的公平财产被浪费了，我的房子里充满了恶棍，他们不断地杀害我的大量牛羊，借口是向我母亲支付地址。因此，我恳求您能告诉我我父亲悲惨的结局，无论您是亲眼所见，还是从其他旅人那里听到的；因为他是一个生来就是麻烦的人。不要因为对自己的怜悯而软化事情，而是要坦白地告诉我你所看到的情况。如果我勇敢的父亲尤利西斯曾经在你们亚该亚人受到特洛伊人的骚扰时，无论是在言语上还是在行动上为你们提供了忠诚的服务，请现在牢记它，就像对我有利一样，并真实地告诉我一切。

Menelaus on hearing this was very much shocked. ‘So,’ he exclaimed, ‘these cowards would usurp a brave man’s bed? A hind might as well lay her new born young in the lair of a lion, and then go off to feed in the forest or in some grassy dell: the lion when he comes back to his lair will make short work with the pair of them—and so will Ulysses with these suitors. By father Jove, Minerva, and Apollo, if Ulysses is still the man that he was when he wrestled with Philomeleides in Lesbos, and threw him so heavily that all the Achaeans cheered him—if he is still such and were to come near these suitors, they would have a short shrift and a sorry wedding. As regards your questions, however, I will not prevaricate nor deceive you, but will tell you without concealment all that the old man of the sea told me.
墨涅拉俄斯闻言大为震惊。 “这么说，”他惊呼道，“这些胆小鬼竟然会霸占勇敢者的床？母鹿还不如把刚出生的幼崽放在狮子的巢穴里，然后去森林里或长满青草的山谷里觅食：狮子回到巢穴后会很快与它们一起工作。 ——尤利西斯和这些追求者也会如此。以父亲朱庇特、密涅瓦和阿波罗的名义，如果尤利西斯仍然是他在莱斯博斯岛与菲洛梅莱德斯摔跤时的那个人，并把他摔得很重，以至于所有的亚该亚人都为他欢呼——如果他仍然如此，并且要接近这些追求者，他们会受到冷落和一场遗憾的婚礼。不过，对于你的问题，我不会搪塞，也不会欺骗你，而是毫不隐瞒地告诉你，海老人告诉我的一切。

‘I was trying to come on here, but the gods detained me in Egypt, for my hecatombs had not given them full satisfaction, and the gods are very strict about having their dues. Now off Egypt, about as far as a ship can sail in a day with a good stiff breeze behind her, there is an island called Pharos—it has a good harbour from which vessels can get out into open sea when they have taken in water—and here the gods becalmed me twenty days without so much as a breath of fair wind to help me forward. We should have run clean out of provisions and my men would have starved, if a goddess had not taken pity upon me and saved me in the person of Idothea, daughter to Proteus, the old man of the sea, for she had taken a great fancy to me.
“我本想来到这里，但众神把我扣留在了埃及，因为我的坟墓并没有让他们完全满意，而且众神对他们的义务非常严格。现在，在埃及附近，大约一艘船在一天内可以在身后微风中航行的最远地方，有一个叫做法罗斯岛的岛屿，它有一个良好的港口，船只进水后可以从这里驶入公海。 ——众神让我平静了二十​​天，连一丝顺风都没有帮助我前进。如果不是一位女神怜悯我并以海中老人普罗透斯的女儿伊多西娅的名义拯救了我，我们的给养就会耗尽，我的部下也会挨饿，因为她夺取了巨大的生命。我很喜欢。

‘She came to me one day when I was by myself, as I often was, for the men used to go with their barbed hooks, all over the island in the hope of catching a fish or two to save them from the pangs of hunger. ‘Stranger,’ said she, ‘it seems to me that you like starving in this way—at any rate it does not greatly trouble you, for you stick here day after day, without even trying to get away though your men are dying by inches.’
“有一天，当我一个人的时候，她来找我，就像我经常做的那样，因为男人们过去常常带着带刺的鱼钩，走遍全岛，希望能钓到一两条鱼，让他们免于饥饿。” 。 “陌生人，”她说，“在我看来，你喜欢这样挨饿——无论如何，这并没有给你带来多大的困扰，因为你日复一日地坚持在这里，甚至没有试图逃跑，尽管你的手下正在死去。”英寸。'

‘‘Let me tell you,’ said I, ‘whichever of the goddesses you may happen to be, that I am not staying here of my own accord, but must have offended the gods that live in heaven. Tell me, therefore, for the gods know everything, which of the immortals it is that is hindering me in this way, and tell me also how I may sail the sea so as to reach my home.’
“让我告诉你，”我说，“无论你碰巧是哪位女神，我并不是自愿留在这里，而是一定冒犯了天上的众神。因此，请告诉我，诸神知道一切，是哪个神仙以这种方式阻碍了我，并告诉我如何航行大海到达我的家。

‘‘Stranger,’ replied she, ‘I will make it all quite clear to you. There is an old immortal who lives under the sea hereabouts and whose name is Proteus. He is an Egyptian, and people say he is my father; he is Neptune’s head man and knows every inch of ground all over the bottom of the sea. If you can snare him and hold him tight, he will tell you about your voyage, what courses you are to take, and how you are to sail the sea so as to reach your home. He will also tell you, if you so will, all that has been going on at your house both good and bad, while you have been away on your long and dangerous journey.’
“陌生人，”她回答道，“我会把这一切都告诉你的。”附近的海底住着一位老仙，他的名字叫普罗透斯。他是埃及人，人们说他是我的父亲；他是海王星的首领，对海底的每一寸土地了如指掌。如果你能抓住他并紧紧抓住他，他就会告诉你你的航行，你要走什么航线，以及你如何航行大海到达你的家。如果你愿意的话，他还会告诉你，当你踏上漫长而危险的旅程时，你家里发生的一切，无论好坏。

‘‘Can you show me,’ said I, ‘some stratagem by means of which I may catch this old god without his suspecting it and finding me out? For a god is not easily caught—not by a mortal man.’
“你能告诉我一些策略吗？”我说道，“我可以用什么策略来抓住这位老神，而不让他怀疑并发现我？因为神是不容易被抓住的——凡人更不会。

‘‘Stranger,’ said she, ‘I will make it all quite clear to you. About the time when the sun shall have reached mid heaven, the old man of the sea comes up from under the waves, heralded by the West wind that furs the water over his head. As soon as he has come up he lies down, and goes to sleep in a great sea cave, where the seals—Halosydne’s chickens as they call them—come up also from the grey sea, and go to sleep in shoals all round him; and a very strong and fish-like smell do they bring with them. {44} Early to-morrow morning I will take you to this place and will lay you in ambush. Pick out, therefore, the three best men you have in your fleet, and I will tell you all the tricks that the old man will play you.
“陌生人，”她说，“我会把这一切都告诉你的。”大约在太阳到达中天的时候，海中老人在西风吹过他头顶的海水的预示下，从海浪下升起。他一上来，就躺下，在一个巨大的海洞里睡觉，那里的海豹——人们称它们为哈洛西德尼鸡——也从灰色的大海里上来，在他周围成群结队地睡觉。它们带有一种非常强烈的鱼腥味。 {44}明天一早我会带你到这个地方埋伏你。因此，选出你舰队中最好的三个人，我会告诉你老头儿会玩你的所有伎俩。

‘‘First he will look over all his seals, and count them; then, when he has seen them and tallied them on his five fingers, he will go to sleep among them, as a shepherd among his sheep. The moment you see that he is asleep seize him; put forth all your strength and hold him fast, for he will do his very utmost to get away from you. He will turn himself into every kind of creature that goes upon the earth, and will become also both fire and water; but you must hold him fast and grip him tighter and tighter, till he begins to talk to you and comes back to what he was when you saw him go to sleep; then you may slacken your hold and let him go; and you can ask him which of the gods it is that is angry with you, and what you must do to reach your home over the seas.’
“首先，他要检查所有的印章，并数点它们；然后，当他看到它们并用五个手指数清它们时，他就会睡在它们中间，就像牧羊人睡在羊群中间一样。当你看到他睡着的时候，抓住他；使出你所有的力量，牢牢地抓住他，因为他会竭尽全力逃离你。他将把自己变成地球上的各种生物，也将变成火和水。但你必须紧紧地抱住他，越抓越紧，直到他开始和你说话，并恢复到你看到他入睡时的状态；然后你就可以松开手，让他走；你可以问他哪个神对你生气，你必须做什么才能跨越海洋到达你的家。

‘Having so said she dived under the waves, whereon I turned back to the place where my ships were ranged upon the shore; and my heart was clouded with care as I went along. When I reached my ship we got supper ready, for night was falling, and camped down upon the beach.
“话虽如此，她潜入了波浪之下，我随即返回到我的船只停泊在岸边的地方；一路走来，我的心都被忧虑笼罩着。当我到达船上时，夜幕降临，我们准备好了晚餐，然后在海滩上扎营。

‘When the child of morning rosy-fingered Dawn appeared, I took the three men on whose prowess of all kinds I could most rely, and went along by the sea-side, praying heartily to heaven. Meanwhile the goddess fetched me up four seal skins from the bottom of the sea, all of them just skinned, for she meant playing a trick upon her father. Then she dug four pits for us to lie in, and sat down to wait till we should come up. When we were close to her, she made us lie down in the pits one after the other, and threw a seal skin over each of us. Our ambuscade would have been intolerable, for the stench of the fishy seals was most distressing {45}—who would go to bed with a sea monster if he could help it?—but here, too, the goddess helped us, and thought of something that gave us great relief, for she put some ambrosia under each man’s nostrils, which was so fragrant that it killed the smell of the seals. {46}
‘当黎明之子出现时，我带着最值得信赖的三人，沿着海边，向天堂虔诚地祈祷。与此同时，女神从海底给我打来四张海豹皮，全都是刚剥皮的，因为她的意思是捉弄她的父亲。然后她挖了四个坑让我们躺下，然后坐下来等我们上来。当我们靠近她时，她让我们一个接一个地躺在坑里，并给我们每人盖上一张海豹皮。我们的伏击是无法忍受的，因为鱼海豹的恶臭是最令人痛苦的{45}——如果可以的话，谁会和海怪上床呢？——但在这里，女神也帮助了我们，并想到了这让我们松了口气，因为她在每个人的鼻孔下放了一些仙水，味道非常香，甚至消除了海豹的气味。 {46}

‘We waited the whole morning and made the best of it, watching the seals come up in hundreds to bask upon the sea shore, till at noon the old man of the sea came up too, and when he had found his fat seals he went over them and counted them. We were among the first he counted, and he never suspected any guile, but laid himself down to sleep as soon as he had done counting. Then we rushed upon him with a shout and seized him; on which he began at once with his old tricks, and changed himself first into a lion with a great mane; then all of a sudden he became a dragon, a leopard, a wild boar; the next moment he was running water, and then again directly he was a tree, but we stuck to him and never lost hold, till at last the cunning old creature became distressed, and said, ‘Which of the gods was it, Son of Atreus, that hatched this plot with you for snaring me and seizing me against my will? What do you want?’
“我们等了整个早上，充分利用了这一天，看着成百上千的海豹来到海边晒太阳，直到中午，海老人也出现了，当他找到了他的肥海豹后，他就走了。”越过他们并数了数。我们是他最先数到的，他从来没有怀疑过有什么诡计，数完后就躺下睡觉。然后我们大喊一声冲向他，抓住了他。他立刻又使出了他的老把戏，首先把自己变成了一头长着大鬃毛的狮子。突然间，他变成了龙、豹、野猪。下一刻他就变成了流水，然后又直接变成了一棵树，但我们紧紧抓住他，从未松开，直到最后这个狡猾的老生物变得痛苦起来，说：“那是哪位神的儿子？”阿特柔斯，是你和你一起策划了这个阴谋，来诱骗我，违背我的意愿抓住我的吗？你想要什么？'

‘‘You know that yourself, old man,’ I answered, ‘you will gain nothing by trying to put me off. It is because I have been kept so long in this island, and see no sign of my being able to get away. I am losing all heart; tell me, then, for you gods know everything, which of the immortals it is that is hindering me, and tell me also how I may sail the sea so as to reach my home?’
“你自己也知道，老兄，”我回答道，“试图阻止我是不会得到任何好处的。”因为我在这个岛上被关了太久了，看不到任何能够逃脱的迹象。我失去了所有的心；那么请告诉我，你们诸神是无所不知的，到底是哪位神仙阻碍了我，并告诉我怎样才能渡过大海到达我的家呢？

‘Then,’ he said, ‘if you would finish your voyage and get home quickly, you must offer sacrifices to Jove and to the rest of the gods before embarking; for it is decreed that you shall not get back to your friends, and to your own house, till you have returned to the heaven-fed stream of Egypt, and offered holy hecatombs to the immortal gods that reign in heaven. When you have done this they will let you finish your voyage.’
“那么，”他说，“如果你想完成航程并尽快回家，就必须在上船前向朱庇特和其他诸神献祭；因为有法令规定，你们不得回到你们的朋友身边，也不得回到你们自己的家中，直到你们回到埃及的天堂之河，向天上统治的不朽之神献上神圣的百墓。当你完成此操作后，他们会让你完成航行。

‘I was broken hearted when I heard that I must go back all that long and terrible voyage to Egypt; {47} nevertheless, I answered, ‘I will do all, old man, that you have laid upon me; but now tell me, and tell me true, whether all the Achaeans whom Nestor and I left behind us when we set sail from Troy have got home safely, or whether any one of them came to a bad end either on board his own ship or among his friends when the days of his fighting were done.’
“当我听说我必须回到埃及那段漫长而可怕的旅程时，我心碎了； {47}尽管如此，我回答说：‘我会做一切，老人，你交给我的；但现在请告诉我，实话告诉我，当我们从特洛伊起航时，内斯特和我留下的所有亚该亚人是否都已安全回家，或者他们中的任何一个人是否在自己的船上或在自己的船上遭遇了糟糕的结局？当他战斗的日子结束后，他和他的朋友们在一起。

‘‘Son of Atreus,’ he answered, ‘why ask me? You had better not know what I can tell you, for your eyes will surely fill when you have heard my story. Many of those about whom you ask are dead and gone, but many still remain, and only two of the chief men among the Achaeans perished during their return home. As for what happened on the field of battle—you were there yourself. A third Achaean leader is still at sea, alive, but hindered from returning. Ajax was wrecked, for Neptune drove him on to the great rocks of Gyrae; nevertheless, he let him get safe out of the water, and in spite of all Minerva’s hatred he would have escaped death, if he had not ruined himself by boasting. He said the gods could not drown him even though they had tried to do so, and when Neptune heard this large talk, he seized his trident in his two brawny hands, and split the rock of Gyrae in two pieces. The base remained where it was, but the part on which Ajax was sitting fell headlong into the sea and carried Ajax with it; so he drank salt water and was drowned.
“阿特柔斯之子，”他回答道，“为什么问我？你最好不要知道我能告诉你什么，因为当你听完我的故事时，你的眼睛一定会湿润。你所询问的许多人都已去世，但也有许多人仍然留存，亚该亚人中只有两名主要人物在回国期间丧生。至于战场上发生的事情——你自己也在场。第三位亚该亚领导人仍在海上，还活着，但无法返回。埃阿斯被海王星驱赶到了吉拉的巨大岩石上，因此失事了。尽管如此，他还是让他安全地从水里出来了，尽管密涅瓦对他充满仇恨，如果他没有因吹牛而毁了自己，他还是可以逃过一死的。他说诸神无法淹死他，尽管他们曾试图这样做，当海王星听到这番大话时，他用两只强壮的双手抓住了他的三叉戟，将吉雷的岩石劈成两半。底座仍留在原来的地方，但埃阿斯坐的部分一头扎进海里，埃阿斯也随之沉入海中。于是他喝了盐水，结果被淹死了。

‘‘Your brother and his ships escaped, for Juno protected him, but when he was just about to reach the high promontory of Malea, he was caught by a heavy gale which carried him out to sea again sorely against his will, and drove him to the foreland where Thyestes used to dwell, but where Aegisthus was then living. By and by, however, it seemed as though he was to return safely after all, for the gods backed the wind into its old quarter and they reached home; whereon Agamemnon kissed his native soil, and shed tears of joy at finding himself in his own country.
“你的兄弟和他的船只逃脱了，因为朱诺保护了他，但当他即将到达马莱亚的高海角时，他被一场强风卷住，强风将他再次推向大海，违背了他的意愿，并把他驱赶了出去。到提厄斯特斯曾经居住过的海滨，但当时埃吉斯托斯也居住在那里。然而，渐渐地，他似乎终于安全归来了，因为众神让风吹回了原来的地方，他们到达了家。阿伽门农亲吻了他的祖国，并因发现自己回到了自己的祖国而流下了喜悦的泪水。

‘‘Now there was a watchman whom Aegisthus kept always on the watch, and to whom he had promised two talents of gold. This man had been looking out for a whole year to make sure that Agamemnon did not give him the slip and prepare war; when, therefore, this man saw Agamemnon go by, he went and told Aegisthus, who at once began to lay a plot for him. He picked twenty of his bravest warriors and placed them in ambuscade on one side the cloister, while on the opposite side he prepared a banquet. Then he sent his chariots and horsemen to Agamemnon, and invited him to the feast, but he meant foul play. He got him there, all unsuspicious of the doom that was awaiting him, and killed him when the banquet was over as though he were butchering an ox in the shambles; not one of Agamemnon’s followers was left alive, nor yet one of Aegisthus’, but they were all killed there in the cloisters.’
“现在有一个看守人，埃吉斯托斯一直在看守他，他答应给他两塔兰特的黄金。这个人整整一年都在监视，以确保阿伽门农不会让他溜走并准备战争。因此，当这个人看到阿伽门农经过时，他就去告诉埃吉斯托斯，埃吉斯托斯立即开始为他设计一个阴谋。他挑选了二十名最勇敢的战士，让他们埋伏在回廊的一侧，而在另一侧则准备了一场宴会。然后他派遣战车和马兵去见阿伽门农，邀请他参加宴会，但他的意思是谋杀。他把他带到了那里，完全没有意识到等待着他的厄运，并在宴会结束后杀了他，就像他在废墟中宰杀一头牛一样。阿伽门农的追随者没有一个活着，埃吉斯托斯的追随者也没有一个活着，但他们都在回廊里被杀了。

‘Thus spoke Proteus, and I was broken hearted as I heard him. I sat down upon the sands and wept; I felt as though I could no longer bear to live nor look upon the light of the sun. Presently, when I had had my fill of weeping and writhing upon the ground, the old man of the sea said, ‘Son of Atreus, do not waste any more time in crying so bitterly; it can do no manner of good; find your way home as fast as ever you can, for Aegisthus may be still alive, and even though Orestes has been beforehand with you in killing him, you may yet come in for his funeral.’
‘普罗透斯如此说道，当我听到他的声音时，我的心都碎了。我坐在沙滩上哭泣；我感觉自己再也无法忍受生活，也无法再看到阳光。不久，当我在地上痛哭流涕、打滚时，海中老人说道：“阿特柔斯之子，别再浪费时间哭得这么痛苦了；”它没有任何好处；尽可能快地找到回家的路，因为埃吉斯托斯可能还活着，尽管奥瑞斯特斯事先和你一起杀死了他，你仍然可以参加他的葬礼。

‘On this I took comfort in spite of all my sorrow, and said, ‘I know, then, about these two; tell me, therefore, about the third man of whom you spoke; is he still alive, but at sea, and unable to get home? or is he dead? Tell me, no matter how much it may grieve me.’
“尽管我非常悲伤，但想到这一点，我还是得到了安慰，并说：‘那么，我知道这两个人的事了；因此，请告诉我关于你所说的第三个人的事。他还活着，但在海上，无法回家吗？或者他死了吗？告诉我，无论这会让我多么悲伤。

‘‘The third man,’ he answered, ‘is Ulysses who dwells in Ithaca. I can see him in an island sorrowing bitterly in the house of the nymph Calypso, who is keeping him prisoner, and he cannot reach his home for he has no ships nor sailors to take him over the sea. As for your own end, Menelaus, you shall not die in Argos, but the gods will take you to the Elysian plain, which is at the ends of the world. There fair-haired Rhadamanthus reigns, and men lead an easier life than any where else in the world, for in Elysium there falls not rain, nor hail, nor snow, but Oceanus breathes ever with a West wind that sings softly from the sea, and gives fresh life to all men. This will happen to you because you have married Helen, and are Jove’s son-in-law.’
“第三个人，”他回答说，“是住在伊萨卡的尤利西斯。我可以看到他在一座小岛上，在仙女卡吕普索的家里痛苦地悲伤，卡吕普索把他囚禁起来，他无法回到家，因为没有船只或水手带他穿越大海。至于你自己的结局，墨涅拉俄斯，你不会死在阿尔戈斯，但诸神会带你到世界尽头的极乐平原。在那里，金发碧眼的拉达曼苏斯统治着这里，人们过着比世界上任何其他地方都更轻松的生活，因为极乐世界里不下雨、不下冰雹、也不下雪，但俄刻阿诺斯永远伴随着从海上轻轻歌唱的西风，并给所有人带来新鲜的生命。这会发生在你身上，因为你已经娶了海伦，并且是朱庇特的女婿。

‘As he spoke he dived under the waves, whereon I turned back to the ships with my companions, and my heart was clouded with care as I went along. When we reached the ships we got supper ready, for night was falling, and camped down upon the beach. When the child of morning, rosy-fingered Dawn appeared, we drew our ships into the water, and put our masts and sails within them; then we went on board ourselves, took our seats on the benches, and smote the grey sea with our oars. I again stationed my ships in the heaven-fed stream of Egypt, and offered hecatombs that were full and sufficient. When I had thus appeased heaven’s anger, I raised a barrow to the memory of Agamemnon that his name might live for ever, after which I had a quick passage home, for the gods sent me a fair wind.
“当他说话的时候，他潜入了海浪中，我和同伴们转身回到了船上，一路上我的心都被忧虑笼罩着。当我们到达船上时，夜幕已经降临，我们准备好了晚餐，然后在海滩上扎营。当黎明之子、玫瑰色手指的黎明出现时，我们把船拖入水中，把桅杆和帆放进去；然后我们自己上船，在长凳上坐下，用桨击打灰色的大海。我再次将我的船只驻扎在埃及的天赐溪流中，并提供了充足而充足的坟墓。当我这样平息了上天的愤怒后，我举起了一辆手推车纪念阿伽门农，让他的名字永远存在，之后我很快就回家了，因为众神给我送来了一阵顺风。

‘And now for yourself—stay here some ten or twelve days longer, and I will then speed you on your way. I will make you a noble present of a chariot and three horses. I will also give you a beautiful chalice that so long as you live you may think of me whenever you make a drink-offering to the immortal gods.’
“现在你自己——再在这里呆十到十二天，然后我会加速你上路。我将送给你一辆战车和三匹马的高贵礼物。我还会送给你一个美丽的圣杯，只要你活着，每当你向不朽的诸神奠酒时，都会想起我。

‘Son of Atreus,’ replied Telemachus, ‘do not press me to stay longer; I should be contented to remain with you for another twelve months; I find your conversation so delightful that I should never once wish myself at home with my parents; but my crew whom I have left at Pylos are already impatient, and you are detaining me from them. As for any present you may be disposed to make me, I had rather that it should be a piece of plate. I will take no horses back with me to Ithaca, but will leave them to adorn your own stables, for you have much flat ground in your kingdom where lotus thrives, as also meadow-sweet and wheat and barley, and oats with their white and spreading ears; whereas in Ithaca we have neither open fields nor racecourses, and the country is more fit for goats than horses, and I like it the better for that. {48} None of our islands have much level ground, suitable for horses, and Ithaca least of all.’
“阿特柔斯之子，”忒勒马科斯回答道，“不要强迫我多留一些时间；我应该很高兴能再和你在一起十二个月；我发现你们的谈话非常愉快，我永远不希望自己和父母一起呆在家里；但我留在皮洛斯的船员已经不耐烦了，你却把我从他们身边扣留了。至于你准备给我做的任何礼物，我宁愿它应该是一块盘子。我不会把马带回伊萨卡，而是把它们留下来装饰你自己的马厩，因为你的王国里有很多平坦的土地，那里盛产莲花，还有绣线菊、小麦和大麦，以及带有白色和白色的燕麦。张开耳朵；而在伊萨卡，我们既没有开阔的田野，也没有赛马场，而且这个国家更适合山羊而不是马，这一点我更喜欢它。 {48}我们的岛屿都没有适合马匹的平坦地面，伊萨卡岛尤其如此。

Menelaus smiled and took Telemachus’s hand within his own. ‘What you say,’ said he, ‘shows that you come of good family. I both can, and will, make this exchange for you, by giving you the finest and most precious piece of plate in all my house. It is a mixing bowl by Vulcan’s own hand, of pure silver, except the rim, which is inlaid with gold. Phaedimus, king of the Sidonians, gave it me in the course of a visit which I paid him when I returned thither on my homeward journey. I will make you a present of it.’
墨涅拉俄斯微笑着，握住忒勒马科斯的手。 “你这么说，”他说，“表明你出身于好家庭。”我可以而且愿意为你做这个交换，把我家里最好、最珍贵的一块盘子送给你。这是伏尔甘亲手制作的搅拌碗，除了边缘镶有黄金外，都是纯银制成的。西顿国王斐迪姆斯在我回国途中拜访他时，将这本书送给了我。我会给你一份礼物。

Thus did they converse [and guests kept coming to the king’s house. They brought sheep and wine, while their wives had put up bread for them to take with them; so they were busy cooking their dinners in the courts]. {49}
他们就这样交谈[国王的宫殿里不断有客人来。他们带来了羊和酒，而他们的妻子则备好了面包让他们随身携带。所以他们忙着在法庭上做饭]。 {49}

Meanwhile the suitors were throwing discs or aiming with spears at a mark on the levelled ground in front of Ulysses’ house, and were behaving with all their old insolence. Antinous and Eurymachus, who were their ringleaders and much the foremost among them all, were sitting together when Noemon son of Phronius came up and said to Antinous,
与此同时，求婚者们正在尤利西斯屋前的平坦地面上投掷圆盘或用长矛瞄准标记，并表现出他们一贯的傲慢态度。安提诺斯和欧律马科斯是他们的头目，也是他们中最重要的人物。当弗洛尼乌斯的儿子诺蒙走过来对安提诺斯说：

‘Have we any idea, Antinous, on what day Telemachus returns from Pylos? He has a ship of mine, and I want it, to cross over to Elis: I have twelve brood mares there with yearling mule foals by their side not yet broken in, and I want to bring one of them over here and break him.’
“安提诺斯，我们知道特勒马科斯哪一天从皮洛斯回来吗？”他有一艘我的船，我想要它，穿越到伊利斯：我在那里有十二匹母马，旁边还有尚未磨合的一岁骡马驹，我想把其中一匹带到这里并打破他。 '

They were astounded when they heard this, for they had made sure that Telemachus had not gone to the city of Neleus. They thought he was only away somewhere on the farms, and was with the sheep, or with the swineherd; so Antinous said, ‘When did he go? Tell me truly, and what young men did he take with him? Were they freemen or his own bondsmen—for he might manage that too? Tell me also, did you let him have the ship of your own free will because he asked you, or did he take it without your leave?’
他们听到这个消息后大吃一惊，因为他们已经确定特勒马科斯没有去涅琉斯城。他们以为他只是在农场的某个地方，和羊群或者猪倌在一起。安提诺乌斯问道：“他什么时候去的？”老实告诉我，他带了哪些年轻人一起去？他们是自由民还是他自己的奴隶——因为他也可以做​​到这一点？还告诉我，你是因为他要求你才自愿让他拥有这艘船的，还是他未经你允许就拿走了它？

‘I lent it him,’ answered Noemon, ‘what else could I do when a man of his position said he was in a difficulty, and asked me to oblige him? I could not possibly refuse. As for those who went with him they were the best young men we have, and I saw Mentor go on board as captain—or some god who was exactly like him. I cannot understand it, for I saw Mentor here myself yesterday morning, and yet he was then setting out for Pylos.’
“我把它借给了他，”诺蒙回答道，“当一个像他这样地位的人说他遇到困难并要求我帮助他时，我还能做什么呢？我不可能拒绝。至于那些和他一起去的人，他们是我们最好的年轻人，我看到导师以船长的身份登上了船——或者是某个与他一模一样的神。我无法理解，因为昨天早上我亲眼看到导师在这里，但他当时正出发前往皮洛斯。

Noemon then went back to his father’s house, but Antinous and Eurymachus were very angry. They told the others to leave off playing, and to come and sit down along with themselves. When they came, Antinous son of Eupeithes spoke in anger. His heart was black with rage, and his eyes flashed fire as he said:
诺蒙随后回到了他父亲的家，但安提诺斯和欧律马科斯非常生气。他们叫其他人别玩了，自己过来坐下。当他们到来时，欧佩忒斯的儿子安提诺斯愤怒地说道。他心中气得发黑，眼中冒出火光，说道：

‘Good heavens, this voyage of Telemachus is a very serious matter; we had made sure that it would come to nothing, but the young fellow has got away in spite of us, and with a picked crew too. He will be giving us trouble presently; may Jove take him before he is full grown. Find me a ship, therefore, with a crew of twenty men, and I will lie in wait for him in the straits between Ithaca and Samos; he will then rue the day that he set out to try and get news of his father.’
“天哪，忒勒马科斯的这次航行是一件非常严肃的事情；我们本来以为这件事不会有任何结果，但那个年轻人还是不顾我们的要求，带着一批精挑细选的船员逃走了。他很快就会给我们带来麻烦；愿上帝在他完全长大之前带走他。因此，请为我找到一艘有二十名船员的船，我将在伊萨卡和萨摩斯之间的海峡埋伏等待他；然后他就会后悔自己出发去打听父亲消息的那一天。”

Thus did he speak, and the others applauded his saying; they then all of them went inside the buildings.
他这样一说，其他人都为他鼓掌。然后他们所有人都进入了建筑物内。

It was not long ere Penelope came to know what the suitors were plotting; for a man servant, Medon, overheard them from outside the outer court as they were laying their schemes within, and went to tell his mistress. As he crossed the threshold of her room Penelope said: ‘Medon, what have the suitors sent you here for? Is it to tell the maids to leave their master’s business and cook dinner for them? I wish they may neither woo nor dine henceforward, neither here nor anywhere else, but let this be the very last time, for the waste you all make of my son’s estate. Did not your fathers tell you when you were children, how good Ulysses had been to them—never doing anything high-handed, nor speaking harshly to anybody? Kings may say things sometimes, and they may take a fancy to one man and dislike another, but Ulysses never did an unjust thing by anybody—which shows what bad hearts you have, and that there is no such thing as gratitude left in this world.’
没过多久，佩内洛普就知道了追求者们的阴谋。一个名叫梅东的男仆在外院外无意中听到了他们在院内策划的阴谋，于是去告诉了他的女主人。当他跨进她房间的门槛时，佩内洛普说道：“梅东，求婚者派你来这里干什么？是叫丫鬟们放下主人的事，给他们做晚饭吗？我希望他们从此以后不再求爱，也不吃饭，无论是在这里还是其他地方，但让这是最后一次，因为你们都浪费了我儿子的财产。当你们还是孩子的时候，你们的父亲没有告诉你们，尤利西斯对他们有多好——从不做任何专横的事，也不对任何人说粗话？国王有时可能会说一些话，他们可能会喜欢一个人而讨厌另一个人，但《尤利西斯》从未对任何人做过任何不公正的事——这表明你的心有多坏，这世界上没有感恩之类的东西。 .'

Then Medon said, ‘I wish, Madam, that this were all; but they are plotting something much more dreadful now—may heaven frustrate their design. They are going to try and murder Telemachus as he is coming home from Pylos and Lacedaemon, where he has been to get news of his father.’
梅东说：“夫人，我希望这就是全部了；但他们现在正在密谋更可怕的事情——愿上天挫败他们的计划。他们将在特勒马科斯从皮洛斯和拉栖代梦回家时试图谋杀他，他一直去那里打探父亲的消息。

Then Penelope’s heart sank within her, and for a long time she was speechless; her eyes filled with tears, and she could find no utterance. At last, however, she said, ‘Why did my son leave me? What business had he to go sailing off in ships that make long voyages over the ocean like sea-horses? Does he want to die without leaving any one behind him to keep up his name?’
佩内洛普的心沉了下去，良久说不出话来。她的眼里充满了泪水，说不出话来。然而，最后她说：‘为什么我的儿子离开了我？他有什么必要乘坐像海马一样在海洋上长途航行的船去航行呢？他难道想死后不留下任何人来维护他的名声吗？

‘I do not know,’ answered Medon, ‘whether some god set him on to it, or whether he went on his own impulse to see if he could find out if his father was dead, or alive and on his way home.’
“我不知道，”梅东回答，“是不是某个神让他这么做的，还是他一时冲动去看看他是否能查出他父亲是死了，还是还活着，正在回家的路上。”

Then he went downstairs again, leaving Penelope in an agony of grief. There were plenty of seats in the house, but she had no heart for sitting on any one of them; she could only fling herself on the floor of her own room and cry; whereon all the maids in the house, both old and young, gathered round her and began to cry too, till at last in a transport of sorrow she exclaimed,
然后他又下楼了，留下悲痛欲绝的佩内洛普。屋子里有很多座位，但她却没有心思坐在其中任何一个上。她只能扑倒在自己房间的地板上哭泣。屋里所有的女仆，无论老少，都围着她哭了起来，最后她悲痛欲绝地喊道：

‘My dears, heaven has been pleased to try me with more affliction than any other woman of my age and country. First I lost my brave and lion-hearted husband, who had every good quality under heaven, and whose name was great over all Hellas and middle Argos, and now my darling son is at the mercy of the winds and waves, without my having heard one word about his leaving home. You hussies, there was not one of you would so much as think of giving me a call out of my bed, though you all of you very well knew when he was starting. If I had known he meant taking this voyage, he would have had to give it up, no matter how much he was bent upon it, or leave me a corpse behind him—one or other. Now, however, go some of you and call old Dolius, who was given me by my father on my marriage, and who is my gardener. Bid him go at once and tell everything to Laertes, who may be able to hit on some plan for enlisting public sympathy on our side, as against those who are trying to exterminate his own race and that of Ulysses.’
“亲爱的，上天很乐意给我带来比我这个年龄和国家的任何其他女人更多的痛苦。首先，我失去了我勇敢、雄心勃勃的丈夫，他拥有天下所有的优良品质，他的名声响彻整个希腊和中阿尔戈斯，而现在我亲爱的儿子却在风浪中任凭摆布，而我却没有听说过。关于他离家的一件事。你们这些女人，没有一个人会想从床上给我打电话，尽管你们都很清楚他什么时候开始。如果我知道他打算进行这次航行，无论他多么一心想要放弃，他都将不得不放弃，或者在他身后给我留下一具尸体——这样或那样。现在，你们中的一些人去给老多利乌斯打电话，他是我父亲在我结婚时给我的，也是我的园丁。请他立即走，把一切告诉雷欧提斯，雷欧提斯也许能想出一些计划来赢得公众对我们的同情，反对那些试图消灭他自己和尤利西斯种族的人。

Then the dear old nurse Euryclea said, ‘You may kill me, Madam, or let me live on in your house, whichever you please, but I will tell you the real truth. I knew all about it, and gave him everything he wanted in the way of bread and wine, but he made me take my solemn oath that I would not tell you anything for some ten or twelve days, unless you asked or happened to hear of his having gone, for he did not want you to spoil your beauty by crying. And now, Madam, wash your face, change your dress, and go upstairs with your maids to offer prayers to Minerva, daughter of Aegis-bearing Jove, for she can save him even though he be in the jaws of death. Do not trouble Laertes: he has trouble enough already. Besides, I cannot think that the gods hate the race of the son of Arceisius so much, but there will be a son left to come up after him, and inherit both the house and the fair fields that lie far all round it.’
然后，亲爱的老护士欧律克莉亚说：“夫人，你可以杀了我，也可以让我继续住在你家里，随你便，但我会告诉你真相。”我知道这一切，并给了他他想要的一切，比如面包和酒，但他让我庄严宣誓，我不会告诉你任何事情十到十二天，除非你问或碰巧听说他走了，因为他不想让你哭泣破坏你的美丽。现在，夫人，洗脸，换身衣服，和女仆们一起上楼，向掌管宙斯的女儿密涅瓦祈祷，因为她可以拯救他，即使他身处死亡之口。别麻烦雷欧提斯了：他的麻烦已经够多了。此外，我不认为诸神会如此憎恨阿尔塞西乌斯的儿子的种族，但在他之后将会有一个儿子留下来，继承这座房子和它周围遥远的美丽田野。

With these words she made her mistress leave off crying, and dried the tears from her eyes. Penelope washed her face, changed her dress, and went upstairs with her maids. She then put some bruised barley into a basket and began praying to Minerva.
这句话让主妇止住了哭泣，擦干了眼角的泪水。佩内洛普洗了脸，换了衣服，和女仆一起上了楼。然后她把一些压碎的大麦放进篮子里，开始向密涅瓦祈祷。

‘Hear me,’ she cried, ‘Daughter of Aegis-bearing Jove, unweariable. If ever Ulysses while he was here burned you fat thigh bones of sheep or heifer, bear it in mind now as in my favour, and save my darling son from the villainy of the suitors.’
“听我说，”她喊道，“承载神盾的朱庇特的女儿，不知疲倦。如果尤利西斯在这里烧死了你肥厚的绵羊或小母牛大腿骨，现在请记住这一点，就像对我有利一样，并拯救我亲爱的儿子免受求婚者的邪恶侵害。

She cried aloud as she spoke, and the goddess heard her prayer; meanwhile the suitors were clamorous throughout the covered cloister, and one of them said:
她边说边大声哭泣，女神听到了她的祈祷。与此同时，求婚者们在有顶棚的回廊里喧闹起来，其中一人说道：

‘The queen is preparing for her marriage with one or other of us. Little does she dream that her son has now been doomed to die.’
“女王正在准备与我们中的一个人结婚。她做梦也没想到，她的儿子现在已经注定要死了。

This was what they said, but they did not know what was going to happen. Then Antinous said, ‘Comrades, let there be no loud talking, lest some of it get carried inside. Let us be up and do that in silence, about which we are all of a mind.’
他们是这么说的，但他们不知道会发生什么。安提诺乌斯说道：“同志们，不要大声说话，以免一些东西被带进去。”让我们站起来，默默地做这件事，我们对此都很有想法。

He then chose twenty men, and they went down to their ship and to the sea side; they drew the vessel into the water and got her mast and sails inside her; they bound the oars to the thole-pins with twisted thongs of leather, all in due course, and spread the white sails aloft, while their fine servants brought them their armour. Then they made the ship fast a little way out, came on shore again, got their suppers, and waited till night should fall.
然后他选了二十个人，他们下了船，来到了海边。他们把船拖入水中，将桅杆和帆收进船内。他们在适当的时候用扭曲的皮革带将桨绑在桨销上，并在高处展开白帆，而他们优秀的仆人则为他们带来了盔甲。然后他们把船停在稍远的地方，再次上岸，吃晚饭，等到夜幕降临。

But Penelope lay in her own room upstairs unable to eat or drink, and wondering whether her brave son would escape, or be overpowered by the wicked suitors. Like a lioness caught in the toils with huntsmen hemming her in on every side she thought and thought till she sank into a slumber, and lay on her bed bereft of thought and motion.
但佩内洛普躺在楼上自己的房间里，无法吃喝，想知道她勇敢的儿子是否会逃脱，或者被邪恶的追求者制服。就像一头陷入困境的母狮，猎人从四面八方包围她一样，她想了又想，直到陷入沉睡，躺在床上，失去了思考和行动。

Then Minerva bethought her of another matter, and made a vision in the likeness of Penelope’s sister Iphthime daughter of Icarius who had married Eumelus and lived in Pherae. She told the vision to go to the house of Ulysses, and to make Penelope leave off crying, so it came into her room by the hole through which the thong went for pulling the door to, and hovered over her head saying,
然后密涅瓦想到了另一件事，并在佩内洛普的妹妹伊卡里乌斯的女儿伊弗蒂姆的肖像中做了一个幻象，她嫁给了尤米洛斯并住在菲莱。她告诉幻象去尤利西斯的房子，让佩内洛普停止哭泣，于是它从丁字裤拉门的洞进入她的房间，盘旋在她的头顶上说：

‘You are asleep, Penelope: the gods who live at ease will not suffer you to weep and be so sad. Your son has done them no wrong, so he will yet come back to you.’
“你睡着了，佩内洛普：安逸生活的众神不会让你哭泣和如此悲伤。你儿子没有做错事，所以他还会回到你身边。”

Penelope, who was sleeping sweetly at the gates of dreamland, answered, ‘Sister, why have you come here? You do not come very often, but I suppose that is because you live such a long way off. Am I, then, to leave off crying and refrain from all the sad thoughts that torture me? I, who have lost my brave and lion-hearted husband, who had every good quality under heaven, and whose name was great over all Hellas and middle Argos; and now my darling son has gone off on board of a ship—a foolish fellow who has never been used to roughing it, nor to going about among gatherings of men. I am even more anxious about him than about my husband; I am all in a tremble when I think of him, lest something should happen to him, either from the people among whom he has gone, or by sea, for he has many enemies who are plotting against him, and are bent on killing him before he can return home.’
正在梦境门口熟睡的佩内洛普回答道：“姐姐，你为什么来这里？你不常来，但我想那是因为你住得太远了。那么，我是否应该停止哭泣并克制所有折磨我的悲伤想法？我，失去了我勇敢而雄心勃勃的丈夫，他拥有天下所有的优良品质，他的名字在整个希腊和中阿尔戈斯都伟大；现在我亲爱的儿子已经上了一艘船——一个愚蠢的家伙，他从来不习惯艰苦的生活，也不习惯在人群中走来走去。我对他的担心甚至比对我丈夫的担心还要多。一想到他，我就浑身发抖，生怕他出了什么事，无论是他所到之处的人，还是海上，因为他有许多敌人正在密谋反对他，一心要杀他。在他回家之前。

Then the vision said, ‘Take heart, and be not so much dismayed. There is one gone with him whom many a man would be glad enough to have stand by his side, I mean Minerva; it is she who has compassion upon you, and who has sent me to bear you this message.’
然后异象说：‘放心，不要那么沮丧。有一位与他同在的人，很多人都会很高兴能站在他身边，我指的是密涅瓦；是她怜悯你，并派我来给你传达这个信息。

‘Then,’ said Penelope, ‘if you are a god or have been sent here by divine commission, tell me also about that other unhappy one—is he still alive, or is he already dead and in the house of Hades?’
“那么，”佩内洛普说，“如果你是神，或者是受神圣委托派到这里来的，请告诉我另一个不幸的人的情况——他还活着，还是已经死在哈迪斯的房子里了？”

And the vision said, ‘I shall not tell you for certain whether he is alive or dead, and there is no use in idle conversation.’
幻象说：“我不会确切地告诉你他是死是活，闲聊是没有用的。”

Then it vanished through the thong-hole of the door and was dissipated into thin air; but Penelope rose from her sleep refreshed and comforted, so vivid had been her dream.
然后它就从门的丁字孔里消失了，消散在稀薄的空气中。但佩内洛普从睡梦中醒来，神清气爽，心情舒畅，她的梦是如此生动。

Meantime the suitors went on board and sailed their ways over the sea, intent on murdering Telemachus. Now there is a rocky islet called Asteris, of no great size, in mid channel between Ithaca and Samos, and there is a harbour on either side of it where a ship can lie. Here then the Achaeans placed themselves in ambush.
与此同时，求婚者登上了船，航行在海上，意图谋杀忒勒马科斯。现在，在伊萨卡岛和萨摩斯岛之间的海峡中间，有一个名叫阿斯特里斯的岩石小岛，面积不大，两边各有一个港口，可以停泊船只。亚该亚人在这里埋伏起来。

BOOK V
第五册

CALYPSO—ULYSSES REACHES SCHERIA ON A RAFT.
卡利普索——尤利西斯乘坐木筏到达谢里亚。

And now, as Dawn rose from her couch beside Tithonus—harbinger of light alike to mortals and immortals—the gods met in council and with them, Jove the lord of thunder, who is their king. Thereon Minerva began to tell them of the many sufferings of Ulysses, for she pitied him away there in the house of the nymph Calypso.
现在，当黎明从她的躺椅上站起来，站在提托努斯身边——对凡人和不朽的人来说都是光明的预兆——众神会面并与他们会面，雷霆之王朱庇特，他是他们的国王。于是，密涅瓦开始向他们讲述尤利西斯所遭受的许多苦难，因为她在仙女卡吕普索的家里怜悯他。

‘Father Jove,’ said she, ‘and all you other gods that live in everlasting bliss, I hope there may never be such a thing as a kind and well-disposed ruler any more, nor one who will govern equitably. I hope they will be all henceforth cruel and unjust, for there is not one of his subjects but has forgotten Ulysses, who ruled them as though he were their father. There he is, lying in great pain in an island where dwells the nymph Calypso, who will not let him go; and he cannot get back to his own country, for he can find neither ships nor sailors to take him over the sea. Furthermore, wicked people are now trying to murder his only son Telemachus, who is coming home from Pylos and Lacedaemon, where he has been to see if he can get news of his father.’
“朱庇特神父，”她说，“以及所有生活在永恒幸福中的诸神，我希望永远不再有一位仁慈和善的统治者，也不再有一个公平的统治者。我希望他们从此以后都变得残忍和不公正，因为他的臣民没有一个忘记了尤利西斯，他像他们的父亲一样统治着他们。他就在那里，痛苦地躺在一座小岛上，那里居住着仙女卡吕普索，她不肯放他走。他无法回到自己的国家，因为他找不到船只或水手带他穿越大海。此外，邪恶的人现在正试图谋杀他唯一的儿子忒勒马科斯，他正从皮洛斯和拉栖代梦回家，看看是否能得到他父亲的消息。

‘What, my dear, are you talking about?’ replied her father, ‘did you not send him there yourself, because you thought it would help Ulysses to get home and punish the suitors? Besides, you are perfectly able to protect Telemachus, and to see him safely home again, while the suitors have to come hurry-skurrying back without having killed him.’
“亲爱的，你在说什么？”她的父亲回答道，“你自己派他去那里不是因为你认为这会帮助尤利西斯回家并惩罚求婚者吗？此外，你完全有能力保护特勒马科斯，并送他安全回家，而求婚者必须匆匆忙忙地回来，而不能杀死他。

When he had thus spoken, he said to his son Mercury, ‘Mercury, you are our messenger, go therefore and tell Calypso we have decreed that poor Ulysses is to return home. He is to be convoyed neither by gods nor men, but after a perilous voyage of twenty days upon a raft he is to reach fertile Scheria, {50} the land of the Phaeacians, who are near of kin to the gods, and will honour him as though he were one of ourselves. They will send him in a ship to his own country, and will give him more bronze and gold and raiment than he would have brought back from Troy, if he had had all his prize money and had got home without disaster. This is how we have settled that he shall return to his country and his friends.’
说完，他对儿子墨丘利说：“墨丘利，你是我们的使者，去告诉卡吕普索，我们已经下令可怜的尤利西斯回家了。”他不会被神或人护送，但经过二十天的危险航行后，他乘木筏到达肥沃的谢里亚，{50}费埃克斯人的土地，他们是诸神的近亲，并将尊敬他就像我们中的一员一样。他们将用一艘船把他送回自己的国家，并给他更多的青铜、黄金和衣服，如果他带着所有的战利品并且平安无事地回家的话，他从特洛伊带回来的东西还多。我们就这样决定他将返回他的国家和他的朋友。”

Thus he spoke, and Mercury, guide and guardian, slayer of Argus, did as he was told. Forthwith he bound on his glittering golden sandals with which he could fly like the wind over land and sea. He took the wand with which he seals men’s eyes in sleep or wakes them just as he pleases, and flew holding it in his hand over Pieria; then he swooped down through the firmament till he reached the level of the sea, whose waves he skimmed like a cormorant that flies fishing every hole and corner of the ocean, and drenching its thick plumage in the spray. He flew and flew over many a weary wave, but when at last he got to the island which was his journey’s end, he left the sea and went on by land till he came to the cave where the nymph Calypso lived.
他如此说道，墨丘利，引导者和守护者，阿古斯的杀手，按照他的吩咐做了。他立即穿上那双闪闪发光的金色凉鞋，穿上它，他可以像风一样飞过陆地和海洋。他拿起魔杖，用来封住睡梦中的人的眼睛，或者随心所欲地唤醒他们，然后将它握在手中飞过皮耶里亚；然后，他从天空中俯冲而下，直到到达海平面，他像鸬鹚一样掠过海浪，飞到海洋的每个洞和角落捕鱼，把它厚厚的羽毛浸湿在浪花中。他飞呀飞，飞过许多疲惫的波浪，但当他终于到达旅程终点的岛屿时，他离开大海，继续走陆路，直到来到仙女卡吕普索居住的洞穴。

He found her at home. There was a large fire burning on the hearth, and one could smell from far the fragrant reek of burning cedar and sandal wood. As for herself, she was busy at her loom, shooting her golden shuttle through the warp and singing beautifully. Round her cave there was a thick wood of alder, poplar, and sweet smelling cypress trees, wherein all kinds of great birds had built their nests—owls, hawks, and chattering sea-crows that occupy their business in the waters. A vine loaded with grapes was trained and grew luxuriantly about the mouth of the cave; there were also four running rills of water in channels cut pretty close together, and turned hither and thither so as to irrigate the beds of violets and luscious herbage over which they flowed. {51} Even a god could not help being charmed with such a lovely spot, so Mercury stood still and looked at it; but when he had admired it sufficiently he went inside the cave.
他在家里找到了她。壁炉里生着一大堆火，远远就能闻到燃烧的雪松和檀香的臭味。至于她自己，她正忙着织布机，用金色的梭子穿过经线，唱着优美的歌。她的洞穴周围有一片茂密的桤木、白杨和芳香四溢的柏树，各种大鸟都在里面筑巢——猫头鹰、鹰和在水中忙碌的喋喋不休的海鸦。洞口周围生长着一棵结满葡萄的藤蔓，枝繁叶茂。河道中还有四条流淌的小溪，它们的距离非常近，它们四处转向，以灌溉它们流过的紫罗兰和甘美的草本植物。 {51}即使是神也不能不被这样一个可爱的地方迷住，所以墨丘利站着不动，看着它；但当他充分欣赏它之后，他走进了山洞。

Calypso knew him at once—for the gods all know each other, no matter how far they live from one another—but Ulysses was not within; he was on the sea-shore as usual, looking out upon the barren ocean with tears in his eyes, groaning and breaking his heart for sorrow. Calypso gave Mercury a seat and said: ‘Why have you come to see me, Mercury—honoured, and ever welcome—for you do not visit me often? Say what you want; I will do it for you at once if I can, and if it can be done at all; but come inside, and let me set refreshment before you.’
卡吕普索立刻就认出了他——因为众神都彼此认识，无论他们彼此住得有多远——但尤利西斯不在里面；他像往常一样站在海边，望着荒凉的大海，眼里含着泪水，呻吟着，伤心欲绝。卡吕普索给墨丘利让座，说道：“墨丘利，你为什么来见我——很荣幸，并且永远欢迎你——因为你不经常来看我？说出你想说的话；如果可以的话，如果可以的话，我会立即为你做；但进来吧，让我给你准备点心。”

As she spoke she drew a table loaded with ambrosia beside him and mixed him some red nectar, so Mercury ate and drank till he had had enough, and then said:
说话间，她在他旁边拉了一张盛满甘露的桌子，给他调了一些红色花蜜，让墨丘利吃喝喝饱，然后说道：

‘We are speaking god and goddess to one another, and you ask me why I have come here, and I will tell you truly as you would have me do. Jove sent me; it was no doing of mine; who could possibly want to come all this way over the sea where there are no cities full of people to offer me sacrifices or choice hecatombs? Nevertheless I had to come, for none of us other gods can cross Jove, nor transgress his orders. He says that you have here the most ill-starred of all those who fought nine years before the city of King Priam and sailed home in the tenth year after having sacked it. On their way home they sinned against Minerva, {52} who raised both wind and waves against them, so that all his brave companions perished, and he alone was carried hither by wind and tide. Jove says that you are to let this man go at once, for it is decreed that he shall not perish here, far from his own people, but shall return to his house and country and see his friends again.’
‘我们正在互相谈论男神和女神，你问我为什么来这里，我会如你所愿地告诉你。朱庇特派我来的；这不是我造成的；谁会愿意远渡重洋来到这里，那里没有挤满人的城市来为我提供祭品或精选的坟墓？尽管如此，我还是必须来，因为我们其他的神都不能越过朱庇特，也不能违背他的命令。他说，你们这里是所有那些在普里阿摩斯王城之前战斗九年并在洗劫它后第十年乘船回家的人中运气最差的人。在回家的路上，他们得罪了密涅瓦，{52}密涅瓦对他们掀起风浪，导致他所有勇敢的同伴都死了，只有他一个人被风和潮水带到了这里。朱庇特说，你要立即放这个人走，因为有法令规定，他不会在远离自己人民的地方灭亡，而是会回到他的家园和国家，再次见到他的朋友。

Calypso trembled with rage when she heard this, ‘You gods,’ she exclaimed, ‘ought to be ashamed of yourselves. You are always jealous and hate seeing a goddess take a fancy to a mortal man, and live with him in open matrimony. So when rosy-fingered Dawn made love to Orion, you precious gods were all of you furious till Diana went and killed him in Ortygia. So again when Ceres fell in love with Iasion, and yielded to him in a thrice-ploughed fallow field, Jove came to hear of it before so very long and killed Iasion with his thunderbolts. And now you are angry with me too because I have a man here. I found the poor creature sitting all alone astride of a keel, for Jove had struck his ship with lightning and sunk it in mid ocean, so that all his crew were drowned, while he himself was driven by wind and waves on to my island. I got fond of him and cherished him, and had set my heart on making him immortal, so that he should never grow old all his days; still I cannot cross Jove, nor bring his counsels to nothing; therefore, if he insists upon it, let the man go beyond the seas again; but I cannot send him anywhere myself for I have neither ships nor men who can take him. Nevertheless I will readily give him such advice, in all good faith, as will be likely to bring him safely to his own country.’
卡吕普索听到这句话，气得浑身发抖，“你们诸神，”她喊道，“你们应该为自己感到羞耻。”你总是嫉妒并讨厌看到一个女神看中一个凡人的男人，并与他公开结婚。因此，当玫瑰色手指的黎明与猎户座做爱时，你们这些珍贵的神都非常愤怒，直到戴安娜去奥提伽岛杀死了他。因此，当刻瑞斯再次爱上伊阿西翁，并在耕过三次的休耕地向他屈服时，不久之后，朱庇特就听说了这件事，并用雷电杀死了伊阿西翁。现在你也生我的气了，因为我这里有一个男人。我发现这个可怜的生物独自坐在龙骨上，因为朱庇特用闪电击中了他的船，将其沉入大海，结果他所有的船员都被淹死了，而他自己则被风浪吹到了我的岛上。我喜欢他，疼爱他，一心想让他长生不老，让他终生不老；我仍然无法违背朱庇特，也无法使他的建议落空；因此，如果他坚持这样做，就让他再次出海吧。但我无法亲自送他去任何地方，因为我既没有船也没有人可以带他去。尽管如此，我会本着真诚的态度乐意为他提供这样的建议，这将有可能把他安全地带回自己的国家。

‘Then send him away,’ said Mercury, ‘or Jove will be angry with you and punish you”.
“那就把他送走吧，”墨丘利说，“不然朱庇特会生你的气，惩罚你。”

On this he took his leave, and Calypso went out to look for Ulysses, for she had heard Jove’s message. She found him sitting upon the beach with his eyes ever filled with tears, and dying of sheer home sickness; for he had got tired of Calypso, and though he was forced to sleep with her in the cave by night, it was she, not he, that would have it so. As for the day time, he spent it on the rocks and on the sea shore, weeping, crying aloud for his despair, and always looking out upon the sea. Calypso then went close up to him said:
他就此告辞，卡吕普索出去寻找尤利西斯，因为她听到了朱庇特的消息。她发现他坐在海滩上，眼睛里充满了泪水，纯粹是因为思乡病而快要死了。因为他已经厌倦了卡吕普索，尽管晚上他被迫和她一起睡在山洞里，但是她而不是他愿意这样。至于白天，他在岩石上和海边度过，哭泣，为他的绝望而大声哭泣，总是望着大海。卡里普索靠近他说道：

‘My poor fellow, you shall not stay here grieving and fretting your life out any longer. I am going to send you away of my own free will; so go, cut some beams of wood, and make yourself a large raft with an upper deck that it may carry you safely over the sea. I will put bread, wine, and water on board to save you from starving. I will also give you clothes, and will send you a fair wind to take you home, if the gods in heaven so will it—for they know more about these things, and can settle them better than I can.’
“我可怜的家伙，你不应该再留在这里悲伤和烦恼你的生活了。我自愿送你走；所以，去砍一些木梁，为自己制作一个带有上层甲板的大木筏，这样它就可以带你安全地飞过大海。我会把面包、酒和水带上飞机，让你免于挨饿。如果天上的诸神愿意的话，我也会给你衣服，会给你送去一阵顺风带你回家——因为他们比我更了解这些事情，并且能更好地解决这些问题。

Ulysses shuddered as he heard her. ‘Now goddess,’ he answered, ‘there is something behind all this; you cannot be really meaning to help me home when you bid me do such a dreadful thing as put to sea on a raft. Not even a well found ship with a fair wind could venture on such a distant voyage: nothing that you can say or do shall make me go on board a raft unless you first solemnly swear that you mean me no mischief.’
听到她的话，尤利西斯浑身颤抖。 “现在女神，”他回答道，“这一切背后都有一些东西；当你命令我做像乘木筏出海这样可怕的事情时，你不可能真的想帮我回家。即使是顺风的好船也无法冒险进行如此遥远的航行：无论你说什么或做什么都不能让我登上木筏，除非你首先郑重发誓你无意恶作剧。

Calypso smiled at this and caressed him with her hand: ‘You know a great deal,’ said she, ‘but you are quite wrong here. May heaven above and earth below be my witnesses, with the waters of the river Styx—and this is the most solemn oath which a blessed god can take—that I mean you no sort of harm, and am only advising you to do exactly what I should do myself in your place. I am dealing with you quite straightforwardly; my heart is not made of iron, and I am very sorry for you.’
卡吕普索对此微笑着，用手抚摸他：“你知道很多，”她说，“但你在这里完全错了。”愿天上地下，以冥河之水为我作证——这是一位受祝福的神能做出的最庄严的誓言——我无意伤害你，只是建议你按照正确的方式去做。我应该代替你做我自己。我很直率地对待你；我的心不是铁做的，我很对不起你。”

When she had thus spoken she led the way rapidly before him, and Ulysses followed in her steps; so the pair, goddess and man, went on and on till they came to Calypso’s cave, where Ulysses took the seat that Mercury had just left. Calypso set meat and drink before him of the food that mortals eat; but her maids brought ambrosia and nectar for herself, and they laid their hands on the good things that were before them. When they had satisfied themselves with meat and drink, Calypso spoke, saying:
她说完，便快步在他前面带路，尤利西斯也跟着她的脚步。于是，女神和男人两人继续前行，直到来到卡吕普索的洞穴，尤利西斯坐到了墨丘利刚刚离开的座位上。卡吕普索将凡人所吃的食物和饮料摆在他面前。但她的女仆们为自己带来了甘露和甘露，她们把手放在了面前的好东西上。当他们吃饱喝足后，卡吕普索说道：

‘Ulysses, noble son of Laertes, so you would start home to your own land at once? Good luck go with you, but if you could only know how much suffering is in store for you before you get back to your own country, you would stay where you are, keep house along with me, and let me make you immortal, no matter how anxious you may be to see this wife of yours, of whom you are thinking all the time day after day; yet I flatter myself that I am no whit less tall or well-looking than she is, for it is not to be expected that a mortal woman should compare in beauty with an immortal.’
“尤利西斯，雷欧提斯的高贵儿子，所以你会立即返回自己的土地吗？祝你好运，但如果你能知道在你回到自己的国家之前，你会经历多少痛苦，你会留在原地，和我一起持家，让我让你永垂不朽，不无论你多么渴望见到你日复一日地思念的妻子；但我却自以为我的身高和美貌并不比她差，因为一​​个凡人的女人在美丽方面是不能与神仙相媲美的。

‘Goddess,’ replied Ulysses, ‘do not be angry with me about this. I am quite aware that my wife Penelope is nothing like so tall or so beautiful as yourself. She is only a woman, whereas you are an immortal. Nevertheless, I want to get home, and can think of nothing else. If some god wrecks me when I am on the sea, I will bear it and make the best of it. I have had infinite trouble both by land and sea already, so let this go with the rest.’
“女神，”尤利西斯回答道，“请不要为此生我的气。”我很清楚我的妻子佩内洛普根本没有你那么高或者那么美丽。她只是一个女人，而你却是一个神仙。尽管如此，我还是想回家，除此之外什么也想不了。当我在海上时，如果某个神使我失事，我会承受并充分利用它。我已经在陆地和海上遇到了无限的麻烦，所以让这件事与其他的一起过去吧。

Presently the sun set and it became dark, whereon the pair retired into the inner part of the cave and went to bed.
不一会儿，太阳落山了，天黑了，两人就退到洞里去睡觉了。

When the child of morning rosy-fingered Dawn appeared, Ulysses put on his shirt and cloak, while the goddess wore a dress of a light gossamer fabric, very fine and graceful, with a beautiful golden girdle about her waist and a veil to cover her head. She at once set herself to think how she could speed Ulysses on his way. So she gave him a great bronze axe that suited his hands; it was sharpened on both sides, and had a beautiful olive-wood handle fitted firmly on to it. She also gave him a sharp adze, and then led the way to the far end of the island where the largest trees grew—alder, poplar and pine, that reached the sky—very dry and well seasoned, so as to sail light for him in the water. {53} Then, when she had shown him where the best trees grew, Calypso went home, leaving him to cut them, which he soon finished doing. He cut down twenty trees in all and adzed them smooth, squaring them by rule in good workmanlike fashion. Meanwhile Calypso came back with some augers, so he bored holes with them and fitted the timbers together with bolts and rivets. He made the raft as broad as a skilled shipwright makes the beam of a large vessel, and he fixed a deck on top of the ribs, and ran a gunwale all round it. He also made a mast with a yard arm, and a rudder to steer with. He fenced the raft all round with wicker hurdles as a protection against the waves, and then he threw on a quantity of wood. By and by Calypso brought him some linen to make the sails, and he made these too, excellently, making them fast with braces and sheets. Last of all, with the help of levers, he drew the raft down into the water.
当玫瑰手指黎明的孩子出现时，尤利西斯穿上了衬衫和斗篷，而女神则穿着一件轻薄薄纱的连衣裙，非常精致优雅，腰间系着美丽的金色腰带，盖着面纱。头。她立刻开始思考怎样才能加速尤利西斯的上路。于是她给了他一把适合他双手的青铜大斧头。它的两面都被削尖了，上面牢固地安装着一个漂亮的橄榄木手柄。她还给了他一把锋利的锛子，然后带路到了岛的尽头，那里生长着最大的树木——桤木、杨树和松树，高耸入云——非常干燥，风干得当，以便为他轻装上阵。在水里。 {53}然后，当她向他展示最好的树木生长的地方时，卡吕普索回家了，让他砍伐它们，他很快就完成了。他总共砍倒了二十棵树，把它们刨平，按照熟练工的方式将它们摆成方形。与此同时，卡里普索带着一些螺旋钻回来了，所以他用它们钻孔，并用螺栓和铆钉将木材安装在一起。他把木筏做得像熟练的造船工人制造大船的横梁一样宽，并在肋骨顶部固定了一个甲板，并在其周围设置了舷缘。他还制作了一根带有帆桁臂的桅杆和一个用来操纵的舵。他用柳条栏杆把木筏四周围起来，以防海浪的侵袭，然后又铺上一些木头。不久，卡里普索给他带来了一些亚麻布来制作船帆，他也制作了这些船帆，做得非常好，用支架和床单将它们固定住。最后，他借助杠杆将木筏拉入水中。

In four days he had completed the whole work, and on the fifth Calypso sent him from the island after washing him and giving him some clean clothes. She gave him a goat skin full of black wine, and another larger one of water; she also gave him a wallet full of provisions, and found him in much good meat. Moreover, she made the wind fair and warm for him, and gladly did Ulysses spread his sail before it, while he sat and guided the raft skilfully by means of the rudder. He never closed his eyes, but kept them fixed on the Pleiads, on late-setting Bootes, and on the Bear—which men also call the wain, and which turns round and round where it is, facing Orion, and alone never dipping into the stream of Oceanus—for Calypso had told him to keep this to his left. Days seven and ten did he sail over the sea, and on the eighteenth the dim outlines of the mountains on the nearest part of the Phaeacian coast appeared, rising like a shield on the horizon.
四天内他完成了全部工作，第五天卡吕普索在给他清洗并给了他一些干净的衣服后将他从岛上送了出去。她给了他一张装满黑酒的山羊皮，和另一张装满了水的山羊皮。她还给了他一个装满食物的钱包，并发现他有很多好肉。此外，她还为他带来了温和而温暖的风，尤利西斯很高兴地在风前张开帆，而他则坐下来，熟练地通过船舵引导木筏。他从不闭上眼睛，而是把它们固定在昴宿星团、晚落的牧夫座和熊身上——人们也称它为车，它在它所在的地方转了一圈又一圈，面向猎户座，独自一人从不陷入其中。俄刻诺斯河——因为卡吕普索告诉他把这条河放在左边。第七天和第十天，他在海上航行，第十八天，菲亚西亚海岸最近的部分山脉的模糊轮廓出现了，像一面盾牌一样在地平线上升起。

But King Neptune, who was returning from the Ethiopians, caught sight of Ulysses a long way off, from the mountains of the Solymi. He could see him sailing upon the sea, and it made him very angry, so he wagged his head and muttered to himself, saying, ‘Good heavens, so the gods have been changing their minds about Ulysses while I was away in Ethiopia, and now he is close to the land of the Phaeacians, where it is decreed that he shall escape from the calamities that have befallen him. Still, he shall have plenty of hardship yet before he has done with it.’
但是，从埃塞俄比亚归来的海王星国王在很远的地方，从索利米山上看到了尤利西斯。他看到尤利西斯在海上航行，这让他非常生气，于是他摇着头，自言自语地说：“天哪，我在埃塞俄比亚的时候，诸神已经改变了对尤利西斯的看法，而且现在他已经接近斐阿克人的土地了，那里有法令规定他将逃离降临在他身上的灾难。不过，在他完成这件事之前，他还会遇到很多困难。

Thereon he gathered his clouds together, grasped his trident, stirred it round in the sea, and roused the rage of every wind that blows till earth, sea, and sky were hidden in cloud, and night sprang forth out of the heavens. Winds from East, South, North, and West fell upon him all at the same time, and a tremendous sea got up, so that Ulysses’ heart began to fail him. ‘Alas,’ he said to himself in his dismay, ‘what ever will become of me? I am afraid Calypso was right when she said I should have trouble by sea before I got back home. It is all coming true. How black is Jove making heaven with his clouds, and what a sea the winds are raising from every quarter at once. I am now safe to perish. Blest and thrice blest were those Danaans who fell before Troy in the cause of the sons of Atreus. Would that I had been killed on the day when the Trojans were pressing me so sorely about the dead body of Achilles, for then I should have had due burial and the Achaeans would have honoured my name; but now it seems that I shall come to a most pitiable end.’
于是，他将云聚集在一起，握住三叉戟，将其在海中搅动，激起狂风，直到大地、海洋和天空都被云遮住，夜色从天而降。东风、南风、北风、西风同时吹向他，汹涌的大海卷起，尤利西斯开始心力交瘁。 “唉，”他沮丧地对自己说，“我会变成什么样子呢？恐怕卡吕普索说得对，她说我回家之前在海上会遇到麻烦。这一切即将实现。朱庇特用他的云打造天堂是多么的黑暗，风从四面八方同时吹来是多么的浩瀚大海。我现在可以安全地死去了。那些因阿特柔斯儿子们的缘故而在特洛伊战败的达南人有福了。但愿我在特洛伊人为阿喀琉斯的尸体而拼命追赶的那一天就被杀了，那样我就应该得到应有的埋葬，亚该亚人就会尊崇我的名字；但现在看来，我的结局将是最悲惨的。”

As he spoke a sea broke over him with such terrific fury that the raft reeled again, and he was carried overboard a long way off. He let go the helm, and the force of the hurricane was so great that it broke the mast half way up, and both sail and yard went over into the sea. For a long time Ulysses was under water, and it was all he could do to rise to the surface again, for the clothes Calypso had given him weighed him down; but at last he got his head above water and spat out the bitter brine that was running down his face in streams. In spite of all this, however, he did not lose sight of his raft, but swam as fast as he could towards it, got hold of it, and climbed on board again so as to escape drowning. The sea took the raft and tossed it about as Autumn winds whirl thistledown round and round upon a road. It was as though the South, North, East, and West winds were all playing battledore and shuttlecock with it at once.
当他说话的时候，汹涌的大海猛烈地向他袭来，木筏又摇晃起来，他被卷到了很远的地方。他松开舵，飓风的力量如此之大，把桅杆折断了一半，帆和帆桁都沉入了海里。尤利西斯在水下待了很长一段时间，他所能做的就是再次浮出水面，因为卡里普索给他的衣服压得他喘不过气来。但最后他把头露出水面，把顺着脸流下来的苦盐水吐了出来。尽管如此，他并没有失去他的木筏，而是以最快的速度游向它，抓住它，然后再次爬上木筏，以免溺水。大海把木筏抛来抛去，秋风把蓟草吹落在路上。仿佛南风、北风、东风、西风同时在与它打毽子。

When he was in this plight, Ino daughter of Cadmus, also called Leucothea, saw him. She had formerly been a mere mortal, but had been since raised to the rank of a marine goddess. Seeing in what great distress Ulysses now was, she had compassion upon him, and, rising like a sea-gull from the waves, took her seat upon the raft.
当他陷入这种困境时，卡德摩斯的女儿伊诺（也称为莱科西娅）看到了他。她原本只是一个凡人，但后来晋升为海洋女神。看到尤利西斯现在的痛苦，她对他产生了同情，像海鸥一样从波浪中站起来，坐在木筏上。

‘My poor good man,’ said she, ‘why is Neptune so furiously angry with you? He is giving you a great deal of trouble, but for all his bluster he will not kill you. You seem to be a sensible person, do then as I bid you; strip, leave your raft to drive before the wind, and swim to the Phaeacian coast where better luck awaits you. And here, take my veil and put it round your chest; it is enchanted, and you can come to no harm so long as you wear it. As soon as you touch land take it off, throw it back as far as you can into the sea, and then go away again.’ With these words she took off her veil and gave it him. Then she dived down again like a sea-gull and vanished beneath the dark blue waters.
“我可怜的好人，”她说，“为什么海王星对你如此愤怒？他给你带来了很多麻烦，但尽管他如此咆哮，他也不会杀你。看来你是个明白人，就照我吩咐的去做吧；脱掉衣服，让木筏顺风而行，然后游到菲亚西亚海岸，那里有更好的运气在等着你。在这里，拿起我的面纱，把它戴在你的胸前；它是有魔力的，只要你戴着它，就不会受到任何伤害。你一接触陆地，就把它脱下来，尽可能地扔回海里，然后再走开。”说完，她把面纱脱下来，递给了他。然后她像海鸥一样再次潜入水中，消失在深蓝色的海水之下。

But Ulysses did not know what to think. ‘Alas,’ he said to himself in his dismay, ‘this is only some one or other of the gods who is luring me to ruin by advising me to quit my raft. At any rate I will not do so at present, for the land where she said I should be quit of all troubles seemed to be still a good way off. I know what I will do—I am sure it will be best—no matter what happens I will stick to the raft as long as her timbers hold together, but when the sea breaks her up I will swim for it; I do not see how I can do any better than this.’
但尤利西斯不知道该怎么想。 “唉，”他沮丧地自言自语道，“这只是某个神明在引诱我走向灭亡，建议我放弃我的木筏。”无论如何，目前我不会这样做，因为她所说的应该远离一切烦恼的地方似乎还很遥远。我知道我会做什么——我相信这会是最好的——无论发生什么，只要木筏的木头还粘在一起，我就会粘在木筏上，但当大海把她冲散时，我会游过去；我不知道我还能做得比这更好。

While he was thus in two minds, Neptune sent a terrible great wave that seemed to rear itself above his head till it broke right over the raft, which then went to pieces as though it were a heap of dry chaff tossed about by a whirlwind. Ulysses got astride of one plank and rode upon it as if he were on horseback; he then took off the clothes Calypso had given him, bound Ino’s veil under his arms, and plunged into the sea—meaning to swim on shore. King Neptune watched him as he did so, and wagged his head, muttering to himself and saying, ‘There now, swim up and down as you best can till you fall in with well-to-do people. I do not think you will be able to say that I have let you off too lightly.’ On this he lashed his horses and drove to Aegae where his palace is.
就在他心存二意的时候，海王星发出了一股可怕的巨浪，巨浪似乎在他的头顶上隆起，直到木筏直接冲破，然后木筏就碎成了碎片，就像一堆被旋风吹来的干糠一样。尤利西斯跨在一块木板上，就像骑在马背上一样。然后他脱下卡里普索给他的衣服，把伊诺的面纱夹在腋下，跳进海里——意思是游到岸上。海王星国王看着他这样做，摇了摇头，自言自语道：“现在，尽你最大的努力上下游动，直到你遇到有钱人。”我想你不能说我太轻率地放过你了。”说完，他勒紧马匹，驱车前往他宫殿所在的埃盖。

But Minerva resolved to help Ulysses, so she bound the ways of all the winds except one, and made them lie quite still; but she roused a good stiff breeze from the North that should lay the waters till Ulysses reached the land of the Phaeacians where he would be safe.
但密涅瓦决心帮助尤利西斯，因此她限制了除一种风之外的所有风的路径，并使它们静止不动。但她从北方吹来一阵强劲的微风，应该会平息水面，直到尤利西斯到达菲埃克斯人的土地，在那里他会安全。

Thereon he floated about for two nights and two days in the water, with a heavy swell on the sea and death staring him in the face; but when the third day broke, the wind fell and there was a dead calm without so much as a breath of air stirring. As he rose on the swell he looked eagerly ahead, and could see land quite near. Then, as children rejoice when their dear father begins to get better after having for a long time borne sore affliction sent him by some angry spirit, but the gods deliver him from evil, so was Ulysses thankful when he again saw land and trees, and swam on with all his strength that he might once more set foot upon dry ground. When, however, he got within earshot, he began to hear the surf thundering up against the rocks, for the swell still broke against them with a terrific roar. Everything was enveloped in spray; there were no harbours where a ship might ride, nor shelter of any kind, but only headlands, low-lying rocks, and mountain tops.
他在水里漂了两天两夜，海面汹涌澎湃，死亡就在眼前。但到了第三天，风停了，一片死寂，连一丝空气都没有动摇。当他在海浪上升起时，他急切地向前看，可以看到很近的陆地。然后，当孩子们看到他们亲爱的父亲在长期忍受着愤怒的灵魂带来的痛苦后开始好转，但众神把他从邪恶中解救出来时，他们感到高兴，尤利西斯也很感激，当他再次看到土地和树木时，他用尽全身力气继续游，以便再次踏上干燥的土地。然而，当他到达听力范围内时，他开始听到海浪拍打岩石的声音，因为海浪仍然以可怕的轰鸣声冲击着岩石。一切都被水雾笼罩着。没有可以停泊船只的港口，也没有任何庇护所，只有海岬、低洼的岩石和山顶。

Ulysses’ heart now began to fail him, and he said despairingly to himself, ‘Alas, Jove has let me see land after swimming so far that I had given up all hope, but I can find no landing place, for the coast is rocky and surf-beaten, the rocks are smooth and rise sheer from the sea, with deep water close under them so that I cannot climb out for want of foot hold. I am afraid some great wave will lift me off my legs and dash me against the rocks as I leave the water—which would give me a sorry landing. If, on the other hand, I swim further in search of some shelving beach or harbour, a hurricane may carry me out to sea again sorely against my will, or heaven may send some great monster of the deep to attack me; for Amphitrite breeds many such, and I know that Neptune is very angry with me.’
尤利西斯现在开始心灰意冷，他绝望地对自己说：“唉，天神让我在游了这么远的距离之后看到了陆地，以至于我已经放弃了所有的希望，但我找不到着陆的地方，因为海岸布满岩石。”经过海浪的冲击，岩石光滑，从海中陡然升起，下面是深水，我无法爬出来，因为没有立足点。我担心当我离开水面时，巨大的波浪会把我从腿上卷起来，撞到岩石上——这会让我遗憾地着陆。另一方面，如果我游得更远，寻找某个搁置的海滩或港口，一场飓风可能会违背我的意愿再次将我带入大海，或者天堂可能会派出深渊中的一些巨大怪物来攻击我；因为安菲特里忒孕育了许多这样的人，我知道海王星对我很生气。

While he was thus in two minds a wave caught him and took him with such force against the rocks that he would have been smashed and torn to pieces if Minerva had not shown him what to do. He caught hold of the rock with both hands and clung to it groaning with pain till the wave retired, so he was saved that time; but presently the wave came on again and carried him back with it far into the sea—tearing his hands as the suckers of a polypus are torn when some one plucks it from its bed, and the stones come up along with it—even so did the rocks tear the skin from his strong hands, and then the wave drew him deep down under the water.
正当他心存二念之时，一道波浪抓住了他，用如此大的力量把他推到岩石上，如果米勒娃没有告诉他该怎么做，他就会被砸碎并撕成碎片。他双手抓住岩石，痛苦地呻吟着，直到海浪退去，他才得救。但不久海浪又来了，把他带回了很远的海里——撕裂了他的双手，就像有人把水螅从床上拔出来时，水螅的吸盘被撕裂一样，石头也随之浮上来——即使这样，水螅的吸盘也被撕裂了。岩石撕开了他有力的双手的皮肤，然后海浪将他深深地吸到了水下。

Here poor Ulysses would have certainly perished even in spite of his own destiny, if Minerva had not helped him to keep his wits about him. He swam seaward again, beyond reach of the surf that was beating against the land, and at the same time he kept looking towards the shore to see if he could find some haven, or a spit that should take the waves aslant. By and by, as he swam on, he came to the mouth of a river, and here he thought would be the best place, for there were no rocks, and it afforded shelter from the wind. He felt that there was a current, so he prayed inwardly and said:
如果不是密涅瓦帮助他保持理智，可怜的尤利西斯即使不顾自己的命运，也肯定会死在这里。他再次向海游去，超出了拍打陆地的海浪的范围，同时他不断地向岸边看去，看看是否能找到一个避风港，或者一个可以挡住波浪的沙嘴。渐渐地，他游到了河口，他认为这里是最好的地方，因为这里没有岩石，而且可以避风。他感觉有一股电流，便在心里祈祷道：

‘Hear me, O King, whoever you may be, and save me from the anger of the sea-god Neptune, for I approach you prayerfully. Any one who has lost his way has at all times a claim even upon the gods, wherefore in my distress I draw near to your stream, and cling to the knees of your riverhood. Have mercy upon me, O king, for I declare myself your suppliant.’
‘国王啊，无论你是谁，请听我说，救我脱离海神海王星的愤怒，因为我虔诚地接近你。任何迷失方向的人在任何时候都对众神有权利，因此在我的痛苦中我靠近你的溪流，并紧紧抓住你的河流的膝盖。国王啊，请怜悯我，因为我宣布自己是您的恳求者。

Then the god staid his stream and stilled the waves, making all calm before him, and bringing him safely into the mouth of the river. Here at last Ulysses’ knees and strong hands failed him, for the sea had completely broken him. His body was all swollen, and his mouth and nostrils ran down like a river with sea-water, so that he could neither breathe nor speak, and lay swooning from sheer exhaustion; presently, when he had got his breath and came to himself again, he took off the scarf that Ino had given him and threw it back into the salt {54} stream of the river, whereon Ino received it into her hands from the wave that bore it towards her. Then he left the river, laid himself down among the rushes, and kissed the bounteous earth.
然后神使溪流平息，波浪平息，一切都平静下来，并把他安全地带入河口。到了这里，尤利西斯的膝盖和有力的双手终于失败了，因为大海把他彻底击垮了。他的全身浮肿，嘴巴和鼻孔像海水一样流下，无法呼吸，无法说话，疲惫不堪，昏倒在地。不久，当他恢复了呼吸并再次清醒过来时，他脱下了伊诺给他的围巾，并将其扔回河里的盐{54}溪流中，伊诺将它从海浪中接到她手中。把它举向她。然后他离开了河流，躺在灯心草丛中，亲吻了肥沃的大地。

‘Alas,’ he cried to himself in his dismay, ‘what ever will become of me, and how is it all to end? If I stay here upon the river bed through the long watches of the night, I am so exhausted that the bitter cold and damp may make an end of me—for towards sunrise there will be a keen wind blowing from off the river. If, on the other hand, I climb the hill side, find shelter in the woods, and sleep in some thicket, I may escape the cold and have a good night’s rest, but some savage beast may take advantage of me and devour me.’
“唉，”他沮丧地自言自语道，“我会变成什么样子，这一切又该如何结束呢？”如果我在河床上熬夜，我会筋疲力尽，严寒和潮湿可能会结束我的生命——因为日出时，河边会刮起一阵凛冽的风。另一方面，如果我爬上山坡，到树林里避难，睡在灌木丛里，我可能会躲避寒冷，睡个好觉，但某些野兽可能会乘虚而入，吃掉我。 '

In the end he deemed it best to take to the woods, and he found one upon some high ground not far from the water. There he crept beneath two shoots of olive that grew from a single stock—the one an ungrafted sucker, while the other had been grafted. No wind, however squally, could break through the cover they afforded, nor could the sun’s rays pierce them, nor the rain get through them, so closely did they grow into one another. Ulysses crept under these and began to make himself a bed to lie on, for there was a great litter of dead leaves lying about—enough to make a covering for two or three men even in hard winter weather. He was glad enough to see this, so he laid himself down and heaped the leaves all round him. Then, as one who lives alone in the country, far from any neighbor, hides a brand as fire-seed in the ashes to save himself from having to get a light elsewhere, even so did Ulysses cover himself up with leaves; and Minerva shed a sweet sleep upon his eyes, closed his eyelids, and made him lose all memories of his sorrows.
最后他认为最好还是到树林里去，他在离水不远的高地上找到了一个。在那里，他爬到了两棵橄榄枝下面，这棵橄榄枝是从一根茎上长出来的——一棵是未嫁接的吸盘，另一棵是嫁接的。无论多么狂风，都无法冲破它们所提供的遮盖物，阳光也无法穿透它们，雨水也无法穿透它们，它们是如此紧密地生长在一起。尤利西斯爬到这些下面，开始给自己铺一张床来躺下，因为周围躺着一大堆枯叶——即使在严冬的天气里，也足够两三个人盖被子了。他很高兴看到这一幕，就躺了下来，把树叶堆在身上。然后，就像一个独自生活在乡下、远离邻居的人一样，他在灰烬中藏了一个火种，以免自己不得不去别处取火，尤利西斯也同样用树叶遮盖自己；密涅瓦让他睡得很香，闭上眼睑，让他忘记了所有悲伤的记忆。

BOOK VI
第六册

THE MEETING BETWEEN NAUSICAA AND ULYSSES.
娜乌西卡与尤利西斯的相遇。

So here Ulysses slept, overcome by sleep and toil; but Minerva went off to the country and city of the Phaeacians—a people who used to live in the fair town of Hypereia, near the lawless Cyclopes. Now the Cyclopes were stronger than they and plundered them, so their king Nausithous moved them thence and settled them in Scheria, far from all other people. He surrounded the city with a wall, built houses and temples, and divided the lands among his people; but he was dead and gone to the house of Hades, and King Alcinous, whose counsels were inspired of heaven, was now reigning. To his house, then, did Minerva hie in furtherance of the return of Ulysses.
尤利西斯就在这里睡着了，他被睡眠和劳累所压倒。但密涅瓦去了菲埃基人的国家和城市——菲埃基人曾经住在美丽的海皮亚小镇，靠近无法无天的独眼巨人。现在，独眼巨人比他们更强大，并且掠夺他们，所以他们的国王瑙西托斯将他们从那里迁移到谢里亚，远离其他民族。他用城墙包围了这座城市，建造了房屋和寺庙，并将土地分给了他的人民。但他已经死了，去了哈迪斯的宫殿，阿尔西努斯国王现在正在统治，他的建议是受天上的启发。于是，密涅瓦回到了他的家，以促进尤利西斯的回归。

She went straight to the beautifully decorated bedroom in which there slept a girl who was as lovely as a goddess, Nausicaa, daughter to King Alcinous. Two maid servants were sleeping near her, both very pretty, one on either side of the doorway, which was closed with well made folding doors. Minerva took the form of the famous sea captain Dymas’s daughter, who was a bosom friend of Nausicaa and just her own age; then, coming up to the girl’s bedside like a breath of wind, she hovered over her head and said:
她径直走进了装饰精美的卧室，里面睡着一位如女神般可爱的女孩，娜乌西卡，阿尔西诺斯国王的女儿。两个女仆睡在她旁边，两个都很漂亮，一个在门口的两侧，门口用做工精良的折叠门关着。密涅瓦化身为著名船长迪马斯的女儿，她是娜乌西卡的挚友，与她同龄。然后，她如风般来到了女孩的床边，盘旋在她的头顶上说道：

‘Nausicaa, what can your mother have been about, to have such a lazy daughter? Here are your clothes all lying in disorder, yet you are going to be married almost immediately, and should not only be well dressed yourself, but should find good clothes for those who attend you. This is the way to get yourself a good name, and to make your father and mother proud of you. Suppose, then, that we make tomorrow a washing day, and start at daybreak. I will come and help you so that you may have everything ready as soon as possible, for all the best young men among your own people are courting you, and you are not going to remain a maid much longer. Ask your father, therefore, to have a waggon and mules ready for us at daybreak, to take the rugs, robes, and girdles, and you can ride, too, which will be much pleasanter for you than walking, for the washing-cisterns are some way from the town.’
‘娜乌西卡，你妈妈到底是怎么回事，竟然有这么一个懒惰的女儿？你的衣服都乱七八糟地摆在这儿，而你马上就要结婚了，不仅自己要穿得漂漂亮亮的，还要给参加婚礼的人找个好衣服。这是为自己赢得好名声、让父母为你感到骄傲的方法。那么，假设我们把明天定为洗涤日，从黎明时开始。我会来帮助你，让你尽快把一切准备好，因为你们本国最优秀的年轻人都在向你求爱，而你做女仆的时间也不会太长了。因此，请你的父亲在天亮时为我们准备一辆马车和骡子，带上地毯、长袍和腰带，你也可以骑车去洗衣池，这对你来说比步行要愉快得多。距离城镇有一段距离。

When she had said this Minerva went away to Olympus, which they say is the everlasting home of the gods. Here no wind beats roughly, and neither rain nor snow can fall; but it abides in everlasting sunshine and in a great peacefulness of light, wherein the blessed gods are illumined for ever and ever. This was the place to which the goddess went when she had given instructions to the girl.
当她说完这句话后，密涅瓦去了奥林匹斯山，他们说那里是众神的永恒家园。这里没有狂风，也不会下雨雪；但它却住在永恒的阳光和伟大的宁静之光中，其中受祝福的诸神永远被照亮。这里是女神给少女下达指示后所去的地方。

By and by morning came and woke Nausicaa, who began wondering about her dream; she therefore went to the other end of the house to tell her father and mother all about it, and found them in their own room. Her mother was sitting by the fireside spinning her purple yarn with her maids around her, and she happened to catch her father just as he was going out to attend a meeting of the town council, which the Phaeacian aldermen had convened. She stopped him and said:
渐渐地，清晨来临，娜乌西卡醒来，她开始思考自己的梦。因此，她走到房子的另一端，把这一切告诉了她的父母，结果发现他们在自己的房间里。她的母亲正坐在炉边纺着紫色的纱线，周围还有她的女仆，她碰巧遇见了她的父亲，当时他正要出去参加菲亚西亚市议员召集的镇议会会议。她阻止了他，说道：

‘Papa dear, could you manage to let me have a good big waggon? I want to take all our dirty clothes to the river and wash them. You are the chief man here, so it is only right that you should have a clean shirt when you attend meetings of the council. Moreover, you have five sons at home, two of them married, while the other three are good looking bachelors; you know they always like to have clean linen when they go to a dance, and I have been thinking about all this.’
“亲爱的爸爸，你能给我一辆好大的马车吗？我想把我们所有的脏衣服拿到河边去洗。你是这里的主要人物，所以你参加理事会会议时应该穿着干净的衬衫是理所当然的。而且你家里有五个儿子，其中两个已经结婚了，另外三个都是长得好看的光棍；你知道他们去参加舞会时总是喜欢干净的亚麻布，我一直在思考这一切。

She did not say a word about her own wedding, for she did not like to, but her father knew and said, ‘You shall have the mules, my love, and whatever else you have a mind for. Be off with you, and the men shall get you a good strong waggon with a body to it that will hold all your clothes.’
关于她自己的婚礼，她只字未提，因为她不愿意，但她父亲知道了，就说：“我的爱人，你可以拥有骡子，以及任何你想要的东西。”走吧，人家会给你找一辆坚固的马车，车体可以装下你所有的衣服。

On this he gave his orders to the servants, who got the waggon out, harnessed the mules, and put them to, while the girl brought the clothes down from the linen room and placed them on the waggon. Her mother prepared her a basket of provisions with all sorts of good things, and a goat skin full of wine; the girl now got into the waggon, and her mother gave her also a golden cruse of oil, that she and her women might anoint themselves. Then she took the whip and reins and lashed the mules on, whereon they set off, and their hoofs clattered on the road. They pulled without flagging, and carried not only Nausicaa and her wash of clothes, but the maids also who were with her.
于是，他吩咐仆人们，仆人们把马车拖出来，套上骡子，把它们放在马车上，而女孩则把衣服从亚麻房里拿下来，放在马车上。她的母亲给她准备了一篮子食物，里面装满了各种好东西，还有一张装满了酒的羊皮。女孩现在上了马车，她的母亲还给了她一瓶金油，让她和她的女人们可以涂油。然后，她拿起鞭子和缰绳，把骡子拴在身上，骡子就出发了，蹄子在路上嘎嘎作响。他们毫不犹豫地拉着，不仅拉着娜乌西卡和她洗的衣服，还拉着她身边的女仆。

When they reached the water side they went to the washing cisterns, through which there ran at all times enough pure water to wash any quantity of linen, no matter how dirty. Here they unharnessed the mules and turned them out to feed on the sweet juicy herbage that grew by the water side. They took the clothes out of the waggon, put them in the water, and vied with one another in treading them in the pits to get the dirt out. After they had washed them and got them quite clean, they laid them out by the sea side, where the waves had raised a high beach of shingle, and set about washing themselves and anointing themselves with olive oil. Then they got their dinner by the side of the stream, and waited for the sun to finish drying the clothes. When they had done dinner they threw off the veils that covered their heads and began to play at ball, while Nausicaa sang for them. As the huntress Diana goes forth upon the mountains of Taygetus or Erymanthus to hunt wild boars or deer, and the wood nymphs, daughters of Aegis-bearing Jove, take their sport along with her (then is Leto proud at seeing her daughter stand a full head taller than the others, and eclipse the loveliest amid a whole bevy of beauties), even so did the girl outshine her handmaids.
当他们到达水边时，他们去了洗衣池，那里始终有足够的纯净水来清洗任何数量的亚麻布，无论有多脏。在这里，他们解开骡子的缰绳，把它们赶出去吃水边生长的甜多汁的牧草。他们把衣服从马车里拿出来，放进水里，争先恐后地把衣服踩在坑里，把泥土踩出来。他们把它们洗干净后，把它们放在海边，海浪在那里掀起一片高高的卵石滩，然后开始清洗自己，并用橄榄油涂在身上。然后他们在小溪边吃晚饭，等待太阳晒干衣服。吃完晚饭后，他们掀掉了遮住头的面纱，开始玩球，而娜乌西卡则为他们唱歌。当女猎人戴安娜前往泰格图斯或厄律曼托斯的山上猎杀野猪或鹿时，承载神盾的朱庇特的女儿们——森林仙女们也跟着她一起玩耍（然后莱托看到她的女儿站在一个完整的位置而感到自豪）比其他人高出一个头，在一群美女中让最美丽的人黯然失色），尽管如此，这个女孩还是比她的使女们更耀眼。

When it was time for them to start home, and they were folding the clothes and putting them into the waggon, Minerva began to consider how Ulysses should wake up and see the handsome girl who was to conduct him to the city of the Phaeacians. The girl, therefore, threw a ball at one of the maids, which missed her and fell into deep water. On this they all shouted, and the noise they made woke Ulysses, who sat up in his bed of leaves and began to wonder what it might all be.
当他们回家的时候，他们正在折叠衣服并把它们放进马车时，米勒娃开始考虑尤利西斯应该如何醒来并看到那个将带他去费阿克人之城的英俊女孩。于是，女孩向一名女仆扔了一个球，但球没有击中她，掉进了深水里。听到这里，他们都大喊大叫，他们发出的声音吵醒了尤利西斯，尤利西斯从树叶铺成的床上坐起来，开始思考这可能是什么。

‘Alas,’ said he to himself, ‘what kind of people have I come amongst? Are they cruel, savage, and uncivilised, or hospitable and humane? I seem to hear the voices of young women, and they sound like those of the nymphs that haunt mountain tops, or springs of rivers and meadows of green grass. At any rate I am among a race of men and women. Let me try if I cannot manage to get a look at them.’
“唉，”他自言自语道，“我遇到了什么样的人呢？他们是残忍、野蛮、不文明的，还是热情好客、人道的？我似乎听到了年轻女子的声音，她们听起来就像是出没于山顶、河流的泉水和绿草如茵的草地上的仙女的声音。无论如何，我属于一个男人和女人的种族。如果我看不到它们，让我试试。

As he said this he crept from under his bush, and broke off a bough covered with thick leaves to hide his nakedness. He looked like some lion of the wilderness that stalks about exulting in his strength and defying both wind and rain; his eyes glare as he prowls in quest of oxen, sheep, or deer, for he is famished, and will dare break even into a well fenced homestead, trying to get at the sheep—even such did Ulysses seem to the young women, as he drew near to them all naked as he was, for he was in great want. On seeing one so unkempt and so begrimed with salt water, the others scampered off along the spits that jutted out into the sea, but the daughter of Alcinous stood firm, for Minerva put courage into her heart and took away all fear from her. She stood right in front of Ulysses, and he doubted whether he should go up to her, throw himself at her feet, and embrace her knees as a suppliant, or stay where he was and entreat her to give him some clothes and show him the way to the town. In the end he deemed it best to entreat her from a distance in case the girl should take offence at his coming near enough to clasp her knees, so he addressed her in honeyed and persuasive language.
说着，他从灌木丛下爬了出来，折下一根长满厚叶子的树枝来遮掩自己的裸体。他就像一头旷野中的雄狮，不畏风雨，昂首阔步。当他徘徊寻找牛、羊或鹿时，他的眼睛闪闪发亮，因为他饿了，甚至敢闯入一个围栏严密的农庄，试图抓住羊——甚至在年轻女子看来，尤利西斯也是如此，他赤身裸体地走近他们，因为他非常缺乏。看到一个人如此蓬头垢面，沾满盐水，其他人沿着伸入海中的沙嘴逃跑，但阿尔西诺斯的女儿坚定地站着，因为密涅瓦给她的内心注入了勇气，消除了她所有的恐惧。她就站在尤利西斯面前，尤利西斯犹豫着是否应该走到她身边，扑倒在她的脚下，像恳求者一样拥抱她的膝盖，或者留在原地，恳求她给他一些衣服，让他看看去镇上的路。最后，他认为最好还是远远地恳求她，以免女孩因为他走得足够近，抱住她的膝盖而生气，所以他用甜蜜而有说服力的语言对她说话。

‘O queen,’ he said, ‘I implore your aid—but tell me, are you a goddess or are you a mortal woman? If you are a goddess and dwell in heaven, I can only conjecture that you are Jove’s daughter Diana, for your face and figure resemble none but hers; if on the other hand you are a mortal and live on earth, thrice happy are your father and mother—thrice happy, too, are your brothers and sisters; how proud and delighted they must feel when they see so fair a scion as yourself going out to a dance; most happy, however, of all will he be whose wedding gifts have been the richest, and who takes you to his own home. I never yet saw any one so beautiful, neither man nor woman, and am lost in admiration as I behold you. I can only compare you to a young palm tree which I saw when I was at Delos growing near the altar of Apollo—for I was there, too, with much people after me, when I was on that journey which has been the source of all my troubles. Never yet did such a young plant shoot out of the ground as that was, and I admired and wondered at it exactly as I now admire and wonder at yourself. I dare not clasp your knees, but I am in great distress; yesterday made the twentieth day that I had been tossing about upon the sea. The winds and waves have taken me all the way from the Ogygian island, {55} and now fate has flung me upon this coast that I may endure still further suffering; for I do not think that I have yet come to the end of it, but rather that heaven has still much evil in store for me.
“女王啊，”他说，“我恳求你的帮助——但请告诉我，你是女神还是凡人？如果你是一位住在天堂的女神，我只能推测你是朱庇特的女儿戴安娜，因为你的面容和身材与她毫无相似之处；另一方面，如果你是一个凡人，生活在地球上，你的父母会加倍幸福，你的兄弟姐妹也会加倍幸福；当他们看到像你这样美丽的后裔出去参加舞会时，他们一定感到多么自豪和高兴！然而，最幸福的是他的结婚礼物最丰富，并且带你去他自己的家。我从未见过如此美丽的人，无论是男人还是女人，当我看到你时，我陷入了钦佩之中。我只能把你比作一棵年轻的棕榈树，当我在提洛岛时，我看到它生长在阿波罗祭坛附近——因为当我踏上那段旅程时，我也在那儿，有很多人追随我，而那段旅程一直是我的源泉。我所有的烦恼。从来没有像这样一棵幼小的植物从地里长出来，我对它钦佩和惊奇，就像我现在对你自己钦佩和惊奇一样。我不敢抱膝，但我很痛苦；昨天已经是我在海上翻腾的第二十天了。风浪把我从奥吉吉亚岛一路带走，{55}现在命运把我扔到了这个海岸上，以便我可以忍受更多的痛苦；因为我不认为我已经走到了尽头，而是天堂仍然有许多邪恶等待着我。

‘And now, O queen, have pity upon me, for you are the first person I have met, and I know no one else in this country. Show me the way to your town, and let me have anything that you may have brought hither to wrap your clothes in. May heaven grant you in all things your heart’s desire—husband, house, and a happy, peaceful home; for there is nothing better in this world than that man and wife should be of one mind in a house. It discomfits their enemies, makes the hearts of their friends glad, and they themselves know more about it than any one.’
“现在，女王啊，可怜可怜我吧，因为你是我见到的第一个人，在这个国家我不认识任何人。告诉我去你的城镇的路，并让我拿走你带来的任何东西来包裹你的衣服。愿天堂赐予你一切你内心渴望的东西——丈夫、房子和一个幸福、和平的家；因为世界上没有什么比夫妻在一屋子里同心协力更好的了。它使他们的敌人感到不安，使他们的朋友高兴，而他们自己比任何人都更了解这一点。

To this Nausicaa answered, ‘Stranger, you appear to be a sensible, well-disposed person. There is no accounting for luck; Jove gives prosperity to rich and poor just as he chooses, so you must take what he has seen fit to send you, and make the best of it. Now, however, that you have come to this our country, you shall not want for clothes nor for anything else that a foreigner in distress may reasonably look for. I will show you the way to the town, and will tell you the name of our people; we are called Phaeacians, and I am daughter to Alcinous, in whom the whole power of the state is vested.’
对此，娜乌西卡回答道：“陌生人，你看起来是一个明智、心地善良的人。”运气是无法解释的；朱庇特按照他的选择给予富人和穷人繁荣，所以你必须接受他认为适合送给你的东西，并充分利用它。然而，既然你来到了我们的国家，你就不会想要衣服，也不会想要任何外国人在困境中可能合理寻找的东西。我会告诉你去城镇的路，并告诉你我们人民的名字；我们被称为菲埃克斯人，我是阿尔西诺斯的女儿，国家的全部权力都归属于他。

Then she called her maids and said, ‘Stay where you are, you girls. Can you not see a man without running away from him? Do you take him for a robber or a murderer? Neither he nor any one else can come here to do us Phaeacians any harm, for we are dear to the gods, and live apart on a land’s end that juts into the sounding sea, and have nothing to do with any other people. This is only some poor man who has lost his way, and we must be kind to him, for strangers and foreigners in distress are under Jove’s protection, and will take what they can get and be thankful; so, girls, give the poor fellow something to eat and drink, and wash him in the stream at some place that is sheltered from the wind.’
然后她叫来了她的女仆，说道：“姑娘们，待在原地。”难道你看不见一个人而不逃避他吗？你认为他是强盗还是杀人犯？无论是他还是其他任何人都不能来这里对我们菲阿克斯人造成任何伤害，因为我们是众神所珍视的，我们居住在一片伸入大海的陆地尽头，与任何其他民族都没有任何关系。这只是一些迷失了方向的穷人，我们必须善待他，因为陌生人和遇险的外国人都受到朱庇特的保护，他们会得到他们能得到的东西并心存感激；所以，女孩们，给这个可怜的家伙一些吃的和喝的，并在避风的地方在溪流中给他洗澡。

On this the maids left off running away and began calling one another back. They made Ulysses sit down in the shelter as Nausicaa had told them, and brought him a shirt and cloak. They also brought him the little golden cruse of oil, and told him to go and wash in the stream. But Ulysses said, ‘Young women, please to stand a little on one side that I may wash the brine from my shoulders and anoint myself with oil, for it is long enough since my skin has had a drop of oil upon it. I cannot wash as long as you all keep standing there. I am ashamed to strip {56} before a number of good looking young women.’
听到这里，女仆们不再逃跑，开始互相呼唤。他们按照娜乌西卡的吩咐让尤利西斯在庇护所里坐下，并给他带来了一件衬衫和斗篷。他们还给他带来了那个金色的小油瓶，并让他去小溪里洗澡。但尤利西斯说：“年轻的女士们，请站到一边，让我洗掉肩膀上的盐水，并用油涂抹自己，因为我的皮肤上已经有一滴油了，已经够久了。”只要你们都站在那里我就不能洗。我羞于在许多漂亮的年轻女性面前脱光{56}。

Then they stood on one side and went to tell the girl, while Ulysses washed himself in the stream and scrubbed the brine from his back and from his broad shoulders. When he had thoroughly washed himself, and had got the brine out of his hair, he anointed himself with oil, and put on the clothes which the girl had given him; Minerva then made him look taller and stronger than before, she also made the hair grow thick on the top of his head, and flow down in curls like hyacinth blossoms; she glorified him about the head and shoulders as a skilful workman who has studied art of all kinds under Vulcan and Minerva enriches a piece of silver plate by gilding it—and his work is full of beauty. Then he went and sat down a little way off upon the beach, looking quite young and handsome, and the girl gazed on him with admiration; then she said to her maids:
然后他们站在一边，去告诉女孩，而尤利西斯则在溪水中洗澡，擦去背部和宽阔肩膀上的盐水。当他彻底洗净自己，擦掉头发上的盐水后，他给自己抹上油，穿上女孩给他的衣服。米勒娃让他看起来比以前更高大、更强壮，她还让他头顶的头发长得浓密，像风信子花一样卷曲地垂下来；她称赞他的头部和肩膀是一位熟练的工匠，在瓦肯和密涅瓦的指导下学习了各种艺术，通过镀金来丰富一块银盘——他的作品充满了美感。然后他走到离海滩不远的地方坐下来，看上去很年轻、英俊，女孩用钦佩的目光看着他。然后她对她的女仆说：

‘Hush, my dears, for I want to say something. I believe the gods who live in heaven have sent this man to the Phaeacians. When I first saw him I thought him plain, but now his appearance is like that of the gods who dwell in heaven. I should like my future husband to be just such another as he is, if he would only stay here and not want to go away. However, give him something to eat and drink.’
“嘘，亲爱的，因为我想说点什么。我相信天上的众神已经把这个人送到了斐阿基人那里。第一次见他的时候，我觉得他很普通，但现在他的样子就像是天上的神仙一样。我希望我未来的丈夫也能成为这样的人，只要他愿意留在这里，不想离开就好了。不过，请给他一些吃的和喝的。

They did as they were told, and set food before Ulysses, who ate and drank ravenously, for it was long since he had had food of any kind. Meanwhile, Nausicaa bethought her of another matter. She got the linen folded and placed in the waggon, she then yoked the mules, and, as she took her seat, she called Ulysses:
他们按照吩咐做了，把食物放在尤利西斯面前，尤利西斯狼吞虎咽地吃喝起来，因为他已经很久没有吃过任何食物了。与此同时，娜乌西卡想到了另一件事。她把亚麻布折叠起来，放进马车里，然后给骡子套上轭，当她坐下来时，她对尤利西斯喊道：

‘Stranger,’ said she, ‘rise and let us be going back to the town; I will introduce you at the house of my excellent father, where I can tell you that you will meet all the best people among the Phaeacians. But be sure and do as I bid you, for you seem to be a sensible person. As long as we are going past the fields and farm lands, follow briskly behind the waggon along with the maids and I will lead the way myself. Presently, however, we shall come to the town, where you will find a high wall running all round it, and a good harbour on either side with a narrow entrance into the city, and the ships will be drawn up by the road side, for every one has a place where his own ship can lie. You will see the market place with a temple of Neptune in the middle of it, and paved with large stones bedded in the earth. Here people deal in ship’s gear of all kinds, such as cables and sails, and here, too, are the places where oars are made, for the Phaeacians are not a nation of archers; they know nothing about bows and arrows, but are a sea-faring folk, and pride themselves on their masts, oars, and ships, with which they travel far over the sea.
“陌生人，”她说，“起来吧，我们回城里去吧！”我将把你介绍到我优秀的父亲的家里，我可以告诉你，在那里你会遇到菲亚西亚人中所有最优秀的人。但一定要按照我吩咐你的去做，因为你看起来是个明智的人。只要经过田野、农田，就和丫鬟们轻快地跟在马车后面，我亲自带路。然而，不久我们就到了城里，你会发现城周围有一道高墙，两边都有一个良好的港口，有一个狭窄的入口进入城市，船只将停泊在路边，因为每个人都有自己的船可以停泊的地方。您会看到市场中央有一座海王星神庙，地面上铺着大石头。这里的人们经营各种船舶用具，例如缆绳和帆，这里也是制造桨的地方，因为菲亚克人不是弓箭手的民族；他们是弓箭手。他们对弓箭一无所知，但却是航海民族，以自己的桅杆、桨和船只为荣，乘着它们在海上航行很远。

‘I am afraid of the gossip and scandal that may be set on foot against me later on; for the people here are very ill-natured, and some low fellow, if he met us, might say, ‘Who is this fine-looking stranger that is going about with Nausicaa? Where did she find him? I suppose she is going to marry him. Perhaps he is a vagabond sailor whom she has taken from some foreign vessel, for we have no neighbours; or some god has at last come down from heaven in answer to her prayers, and she is going to live with him all the rest of her life. It would be a good thing if she would take herself off and find a husband somewhere else, for she will not look at one of the many excellent young Phaeacians who are in love with her.’ This is the kind of disparaging remark that would be made about me, and I could not complain, for I should myself be scandalised at seeing any other girl do the like, and go about with men in spite of everybody, while her father and mother were still alive, and without having been married in the face of all the world.
“我担心以后可能会出现针对我的流言蜚语和丑闻；因为这里的人脾气很坏，有些卑鄙的人如果见到我们，可能会说：‘这个和娜乌西卡一起走来走去的漂亮陌生人是谁？她在哪里找到他的？我想她会嫁给他。也许他是一个流浪水手，是她从外国船上带走的，因为我们没有邻居；或者某个神终于回应了她的祈祷从天而降，她将与他一起度过余生。如果她愿意离开并在其他地方找到一个丈夫，那将是一件好事，因为她不会看那些爱上她的许多优秀的年轻菲埃克斯人中的一个。”这是一种贬低性的言论，我无法抱怨，因为如果我看到其他女孩做同样的事，不顾所有人的反对，与男人交往，而她的父母还活着，而且还没有结婚，我自己会感到震惊。全世界的脸。

‘If, therefore, you want my father to give you an escort and to help you home, do as I bid you; you will see a beautiful grove of poplars by the road side dedicated to Minerva; it has a well in it and a meadow all round it. Here my father has a field of rich garden ground, about as far from the town as a man’s voice will carry. Sit down there and wait for a while till the rest of us can get into the town and reach my father’s house. Then, when you think we must have done this, come into the town and ask the way to the house of my father Alcinous. You will have no difficulty in finding it; any child will point it out to you, for no one else in the whole town has anything like such a fine house as he has. When you have got past the gates and through the outer court, go right across the inner court till you come to my mother. You will find her sitting by the fire and spinning her purple wool by firelight. It is a fine sight to see her as she leans back against one of the bearing-posts with her maids all ranged behind her. Close to her seat stands that of my father, on which he sits and topes like an immortal god. Never mind him, but go up to my mother, and lay your hands upon her knees if you would get home quickly. If you can gain her over, you may hope to see your own country again, no matter how distant it may be.’
“因此，如果你想让我父亲护送你回家，就按照我的吩咐去做；你会在路边看到一片美丽的白杨树林，供奉着密涅瓦女神；里面有一口井，周围有一片草地。我父亲在这里有一片肥沃的花园，距离城镇大约是一个人的声音所能传到的最远的地方。坐在那里等一会儿，直到我们其他人可以进城到达我父亲的家。然后，当你认为我们一定已经这么做了时，请进城询问去我父亲阿尔西诺斯家的路。你会毫不费力地找到它；任何一个孩子都会向你指出这一点，因为整个镇上没有人拥有像他这样漂亮的房子。当你过了门，穿过外院，就向右穿过内院，直到你来到我母亲那里。你会发现她坐在火边，在火光下纺紫色的羊毛。当她靠在一根轴承柱上，而她的女仆都在她身后时，看到她的景象真是美好。靠近她的座位是我父亲的座位，他坐在上面，像一位不朽的神一样。别管他，只要走到我母亲身边，如果你想快点回家的话，把手放在她的膝盖上。如果你能赢得她的支持，你可能会希望再次见到自己的国家，无论它有多遥远。

So saying she lashed the mules with her whip and they left the river. The mules drew well, and their hoofs went up and down upon the road. She was careful not to go too fast for Ulysses and the maids who were following on foot along with the waggon, so she plied her whip with judgement. As the sun was going down they came to the sacred grove of Minerva, and there Ulysses sat down and prayed to the mighty daughter of Jove.
说着，她用鞭子抽打骡子，他们就离开了河。骡子走得很好，蹄子在路上上下走动。她小心翼翼地不让尤利西斯和跟在马车后面步行的女仆们走得太快，所以她谨慎地抽动着鞭子。太阳落山时，他们来到了密涅瓦的神圣树林，尤利西斯坐下来向强大的朱庇特女儿祈祷。

‘Hear me,’ he cried, ‘daughter of Aegis-bearing Jove, unweariable, hear me now, for you gave no heed to my prayers when Neptune was wrecking me. Now, therefore, have pity upon me and grant that I may find friends and be hospitably received by the Phaeacians.’
“听我说，”他喊道，“承载神盾的朱庇特的女儿，不知疲倦，现在听我说，因为当海王星摧毁我时，你没有留意我的祈祷。因此，现在请怜悯我，让我能够找到朋友，并受到斐阿克人的热情接待。

Thus did he pray, and Minerva heard his prayer, but she would not show herself to him openly, for she was afraid of her uncle Neptune, who was still furious in his endeavors to prevent Ulysses from getting home.
他就这样祈祷了，密涅瓦听到了他的祈祷，但她不会公开向他露面，因为她害怕她的叔叔海王星，他仍然对阻止尤利西​​斯回家感到愤怒。

BOOK VII
第七册

RECEPTION OF ULYSSES AT THE PALACE OF KING ALCINOUS.
阿尔西努斯国王宫殿接待尤利西斯。

Thus, then, did Ulysses wait and pray; but the girl drove on to the town. When she reached her father’s house she drew up at the gateway, and her brothers—comely as the gods—gathered round her, took the mules out of the waggon, and carried the clothes into the house, while she went to her own room, where an old servant, Eurymedusa of Apeira, lit the fire for her. This old woman had been brought by sea from Apeira, and had been chosen as a prize for Alcinous because he was king over the Phaeacians, and the people obeyed him as though he were a god. {57} She had been nurse to Nausicaa, and had now lit the fire for her, and brought her supper for her into her own room.
于是，尤利西斯就这样等待并祈祷。但女孩还是开车去了镇上。当她到达她父亲的家时，她在门口停下来，她的兄弟们——英俊如神——聚集在她周围，从马车上牵出骡子，把衣服搬进屋里，而她则回到自己的房间，一位名叫阿佩拉 (Apeira) 的老仆人尤律美杜莎 (Eurymedusa) 为她点燃了火。这位老妇人是从阿佩拉经海路运来的，被选为阿尔西诺斯的战利品，因为他是费埃克斯人的国王，人民服从他，就好像他是神一样。 {57}她曾经是娜乌西卡的护士，现在为她生火，并将她的晚餐带进她自己的房间。

Presently Ulysses got up to go towards the town; and Minerva shed a thick mist all round him to hide him in case any of the proud Phaeacians who met him should be rude to him, or ask him who he was. Then, as he was just entering the town, she came towards him in the likeness of a little girl carrying a pitcher. She stood right in front of him, and Ulysses said:
不久，尤利西斯起身向城镇走去。密涅瓦在他周围洒下了一层厚厚的雾气，以把他隐藏起来，以防任何遇到他的骄傲的菲埃克斯人对他粗鲁，或者问他是谁。然后，当他刚进城的时候，她就以一个提着水罐的小女孩的模样向他走来。她就站在他面前，尤利西斯说道：

‘My dear, will you be so kind as to show me the house of king Alcinous? I am an unfortunate foreigner in distress, and do not know one in your town and country.’
“亲爱的，您能带我参观阿尔西诺斯国王的宫殿吗？我是一名不幸的外国人，身处困境，在你们的城镇和国家我不认识任何人。

Then Minerva said, ‘Yes, father stranger, I will show you the house you want, for Alcinous lives quite close to my own father. I will go before you and show the way, but say not a word as you go, and do not look at any man, nor ask him questions; for the people here cannot abide strangers, and do not like men who come from some other place. They are a sea-faring folk, and sail the seas by the grace of Neptune in ships that glide along like thought, or as a bird in the air.’
然后米勒娃说：“是的，陌生人父亲，我会带你去看你想要的房子，因为阿尔西诺斯住得离我父亲很近。”我会走在你前面，给你带路，但你走的时候不要说一句话，也不要看任何人，也不要问他问题；因为这里的人不能容忍陌生人，也不喜欢来自其他地方的人。他们是航海民族，靠着海王星的恩典，驾着船只在海上航行，这些船只像思想一样滑行，或者像空中的鸟儿一样。

On this she led the way, and Ulysses followed in her steps; but not one of the Phaeacians could see him as he passed through the city in the midst of them; for the great goddess Minerva in her good will towards him had hidden him in a thick cloud of darkness. He admired their harbours, ships, places of assembly, and the lofty walls of the city, which, with the palisade on top of them, were very striking, and when they reached the king’s house Minerva said:
在这方面，她带路，尤利西斯紧随其后。但当他在他们中间穿过这座城市时，没有一个菲亚基人能看见他。因为伟大的密涅瓦女神出于对他的善意，将他隐藏在厚厚的黑暗云层中。他欣赏他们的港口、船只、集会场所和高耸的城墙，城墙的顶部有栅栏，非常引人注目，当他们到达王宫时，密涅瓦说道：

‘This is the house, father stranger, which you would have me show you. You will find a number of great people sitting at table, but do not be afraid; go straight in, for the bolder a man is the more likely he is to carry his point, even though he is a stranger. First find the queen. Her name is Arete, and she comes of the same family as her husband Alcinous. They both descend originally from Neptune, who was father to Nausithous by Periboea, a woman of great beauty. Periboea was the youngest daughter of Eurymedon, who at one time reigned over the giants, but he ruined his ill-fated people and lost his own life to boot.
“陌生人父亲，这就是你要我带你去看的房子。您会发现许多伟大的人物坐在餐桌旁，但不要害怕；直接进去吧，因为一个人越大胆，他就越有可能表达自己的观点，即使他是一个陌生人。首先找到女王。她的名字叫阿雷特（Arete），与丈夫阿尔西诺斯（Alcinous）出身同一家庭。他们都是海王星的后裔，海王星是一位美丽的女人佩里波亚（Periboea）所生的纳西索斯（Nausithous）。佩里波厄亚（Periboea）是欧律墨冬（Eurymedon）最小的女儿，欧律墨冬一度统治着巨人，但他却毁掉了命运多舛的人民，还失去了自己的生命。

‘Neptune, however, lay with his daughter, and she had a son by him, the great Nausithous, who reigned over the Phaeacians. Nausithous had two sons Rhexenor and Alcinous; {58} Apollo killed the first of them while he was still a bridegroom and without male issue; but he left a daughter Arete, whom Alcinous married, and honours as no other woman is honoured of all those that keep house along with their husbands.
然而，尼普顿与他的女儿同房，她与他生了一个儿子，伟大的瑙西索斯，他统治着斐阿克人。瑙西索斯有两个儿子雷克诺斯和阿尔西诺斯。 {58} 阿波罗杀死了他们中的第一个，当时他还是个新郎，没有男性后代；但他留下了一个女儿阿瑞特（Arete），阿尔西诺斯娶了她为妻，所有与丈夫一起持家的人都像其他女人一样受到尊重。

‘Thus she both was, and still is, respected beyond measure by her children, by Alcinous himself, and by the whole people, who look upon her as a goddess, and greet her whenever she goes about the city, for she is a thoroughly good woman both in head and heart, and when any women are friends of hers, she will help their husbands also to settle their disputes. If you can gain her good will, you may have every hope of seeing your friends again, and getting safely back to your home and country.’
因此，无论过去还是现在，她都受到她的孩子们、阿尔西诺斯本人以及全体人民的无比尊重，他们将她视为女神，每当她在城里走来走去时都会向她致意，因为她是一位彻头彻尾的女神。头脑和心灵都是好女人，当任何女人和她成为朋友时，她也会帮助她们的丈夫解决他们的纠纷。如果你能赢得她的善意，你就完全有希望再次见到你的朋友，并安全地回到你的家乡和国家。

Then Minerva left Scheria and went away over the sea. She went to Marathon {59} and to the spacious streets of Athens, where she entered the abode of Erechtheus; but Ulysses went on to the house of Alcinous, and he pondered much as he paused a while before reaching the threshold of bronze, for the splendour of the palace was like that of the sun or moon. The walls on either side were of bronze from end to end, and the cornice was of blue enamel. The doors were gold, and hung on pillars of silver that rose from a floor of bronze, while the lintel was silver and the hook of the door was of gold.
然后密涅瓦离开谢里亚，漂洋过海而去。她去了马拉松{59}，来到了雅典宽敞的街道，在那里她进入了埃瑞克透斯的住所；但尤利西斯继续前往阿尔西诺斯的宅邸，在到达青铜门槛之前，他停顿了一会儿，沉思了很久，因为这座宫殿的辉煌就像太阳或月亮一样。两侧的墙壁从头到尾都是青铜制成的，飞檐是蓝色珐琅的。门是金色的，挂在从青铜地板上升起的银柱上，门楣是银色的，门钩是金色的。

On either side there stood gold and silver mastiffs which Vulcan, with his consummate skill, had fashioned expressly to keep watch over the palace of king Alcinous; so they were immortal and could never grow old. Seats were ranged all along the wall, here and there from one end to the other, with coverings of fine woven work which the women of the house had made. Here the chief persons of the Phaeacians used to sit and eat and drink, for there was abundance at all seasons; and there were golden figures of young men with lighted torches in their hands, raised on pedestals, to give light by night to those who were at table. There are {60} fifty maid servants in the house, some of whom are always grinding rich yellow grain at the mill, while others work at the loom, or sit and spin, and their shuttles go backwards and forwards like the fluttering of aspen leaves, while the linen is so closely woven that it will turn oil. As the Phaeacians are the best sailors in the world, so their women excel all others in weaving, for Minerva has taught them all manner of useful arts, and they are very intelligent.
两边站着金银獒犬，这些獒犬是伏尔甘以其精湛的技艺专门打造的，用来看守阿尔西诺斯国王的宫殿。所以他们是不朽的，永远不会变老。座位沿墙排列，从一端到另一端到处都是，上面覆盖着家里的女人们制作的精美编织品。斐阿克人的首领常常在这里坐下来吃喝，因为这里一年四季都有充足的食物。还有金色的年轻人雕像，他们手里拿着点燃的火把，高举在基座上，在夜间为餐桌上的人照明。屋里有五十个女仆，有的常在磨坊里磨着丰黄的谷物，有的则在织布机上干活，或坐着纺纱，梭子来来回回，像白杨叶一样飘动。 ，而亚麻布编织得非常紧密，以至于会变成油。由于斐阿克人是世界上最好的水手，因此他们的妇女在编织方面胜过其他所有人，因为密涅瓦教会了她们各种有用的艺术，而且她们非常聪明。

Outside the gate of the outer court there is a large garden of about four acres with a wall all round it. It is full of beautiful trees—pears, pomegranates, and the most delicious apples. There are luscious figs also, and olives in full growth. The fruits never rot nor fail all the year round, neither winter nor summer, for the air is so soft that a new crop ripens before the old has dropped. Pear grows on pear, apple on apple, and fig on fig, and so also with the grapes, for there is an excellent vineyard: on the level ground of a part of this, the grapes are being made into raisins; in another part they are being gathered; some are being trodden in the wine tubs, others further on have shed their blossom and are beginning to show fruit, others again are just changing colour. In the furthest part of the ground there are beautifully arranged beds of flowers that are in bloom all the year round. Two streams go through it, the one turned in ducts throughout the whole garden, while the other is carried under the ground of the outer court to the house itself, and the town’s people draw water from it. Such, then, were the splendours with which the gods had endowed the house of king Alcinous.
外院门外有一座约四亩的大花园，四周有围墙。这里长满了美丽的树木——梨子、石榴和最美味的苹果。还有甘美的无花果和完全生长的橄榄。无论冬天还是夏天，果实一年四季都不会腐烂或失败，因为空气如此柔软，新作物在旧作物落下之前就成熟了。梨连着梨，苹果连着苹果，无花果连着无花果，葡萄也是如此，因为这里有一个极好的葡萄园：在这片土地的一部分的平地上，葡萄正在被制作成葡萄干。他们正在另一处聚集；有些正在酒桶中被践踏，有些已经开花并开始结出果实，有些又刚刚改变颜色。在地面的最深处，有布置精美的花坛，一年四季都盛开着。两条溪流穿过它，一条穿过整个花园的管道，另一条则从外院的地下引到房子本身，镇上的人们从中取水。这就是众神赋予阿尔西诺斯国王的宫殿的辉煌。

So here Ulysses stood for a while and looked about him, but when he had looked long enough he crossed the threshold and went within the precincts of the house. There he found all the chief people among the Phaeacians making their drink offerings to Mercury, which they always did the last thing before going away for the night. {61} He went straight through the court, still hidden by the cloak of darkness in which Minerva had enveloped him, till he reached Arete and King Alcinous; then he laid his hands upon the knees of the queen, and at that moment the miraculous darkness fell away from him and he became visible. Every one was speechless with surprise at seeing a man there, but Ulysses began at once with his petition.
尤利西斯在这里站了一会儿，环顾四周，等他看了足够长的时间后，他跨过门槛，走进了房子的范围。在那里，他发现斐阿克人的所有主要人物都在向墨丘利献奠祭，他们总是在晚上离开之前做最后一件事。 {61}他径直穿过法庭，仍然被密涅瓦包裹着他的黑暗斗篷所隐藏，直到他到达阿雷特和阿尔西努斯国王；然后他把手放在王后的膝盖上，就在那一刻，奇迹般的黑暗从他身上消失了，他变得可见。每个人都惊讶得说不出话来，看到一个人在那里，但尤利西斯立即开始了他的请愿。

‘Queen Arete,’ he exclaimed, ‘daughter of great Rhexenor, in my distress I humbly pray you, as also your husband and these your guests (whom may heaven prosper with long life and happiness, and may they leave their possessions to their children, and all the honours conferred upon them by the state) to help me home to my own country as soon as possible; for I have been long in trouble and away from my friends.’
“阿瑞特女王，”他喊道，“伟大的雷克森诺的女儿，在我的痛苦中，我谦卑地向你祈祷，还有你的丈夫和这些客人（愿天堂繁荣昌盛，长寿幸福，愿他们把财产留给他们的孩子） ，以及国家授予他们的一切荣誉）帮助我尽快回到自己的祖国；因为我已经陷入麻烦之中，并且远离我的朋友了。”

Then he sat down on the hearth among the ashes and they all held their peace, till presently the old hero Echeneus, who was an excellent speaker and an elder among the Phaeacians, plainly and in all honesty addressed them thus:
然后他坐在炉边的灰烬中，大家都保持沉默，直到老英雄埃切纽斯（Echeneus）——他是一位出色的演说家，也是菲亚克斯人中的一位长者——不久就坦率而诚实地对他们这样说道：

‘Alcinous,’ said he, ‘it is not creditable to you that a stranger should be seen sitting among the ashes of your hearth; every one is waiting to hear what you are about to say; tell him, then, to rise and take a seat on a stool inlaid with silver, and bid your servants mix some wine and water that we may make a drink offering to Jove the lord of thunder, who takes all well disposed suppliants under his protection; and let the housekeeper give him some supper, of whatever there may be in the house.’
“阿尔辛努斯，”他说，“看到一个陌生人坐在你壁炉的灰烬中，这对你来说是不值得赞扬的；每个人都在等着听你要说什么；那么，请告诉他，站起来，坐在镶银的凳子上，并吩咐仆人将酒和水调匀，我们可以向雷霆之主朱庇特奠酒，朱庇特将所有善良的恳求者置于他的保护之下。 ;让管家给他一些晚饭，无论家里有什么。

When Alcinous heard this he took Ulysses by the hand, raised him from the hearth, and bade him take the seat of Laodamas, who had been sitting beside him, and was his favourite son. A maid servant then brought him water in a beautiful golden ewer and poured it into a silver basin for him to wash his hands, and she drew a clean table beside him; an upper servant brought him bread and offered him many good things of what there was in the house, and Ulysses ate and drank. Then Alcinous said to one of the servants, ‘Pontonous, mix a cup of wine and hand it round that we may make drink-offerings to Jove the lord of thunder, who is the protector of all well-disposed suppliants.’
阿尔西诺斯听到这句话，拉着尤利西斯的手，把他从壁炉边扶起来，请他坐在一直坐在他旁边、他最喜欢的儿子劳达马斯的座位上。然后，一个女仆用一个漂亮的金壶给他端来水，倒进一个银盆里，让他洗手，并在他旁边拉了一张干净的桌子；一位上等仆人给他送来了面包，并给了他家里所有的许多好东西，尤利西斯就吃喝了。然后阿尔西诺斯对其中一个仆人说：“庞托努斯，调一杯酒，递给我们，我们可以向雷霆之主朱庇特奠酒，他是所有好心祈求者的保护者。”

Pontonous then mixed wine and water, and handed it round after giving every man his drink-offering. When they had made their offerings, and had drunk each as much as he was minded, Alcinous said:
庞托努斯随后将酒和水混合，在给每个人敬酒后分发给大家。当他们献上祭品，并各自喝完自己想喝的酒后，阿尔西诺斯说道：

‘Aldermen and town councillors of the Phaeacians, hear my words. You have had your supper, so now go home to bed. To-morrow morning I shall invite a still larger number of aldermen, and will give a sacrificial banquet in honour of our guest; we can then discuss the question of his escort, and consider how we may at once send him back rejoicing to his own country without trouble or inconvenience to himself, no matter how distant it may be. We must see that he comes to no harm while on his homeward journey, but when he is once at home he will have to take the luck he was born with for better or worse like other people. It is possible, however, that the stranger is one of the immortals who has come down from heaven to visit us; but in this case the gods are departing from their usual practice, for hitherto they have made themselves perfectly clear to us when we have been offering them hecatombs. They come and sit at our feasts just like one of our selves, and if any solitary wayfarer happens to stumble upon some one or other of them, they affect no concealment, for we are as near of kin to the gods as the Cyclopes and the savage giants are.’ {62}
“市议员和菲亚克斯市的议员们，请听我的话。你已经吃过晚饭了，现在回家睡觉吧。明天早上，我将邀请更多的市议员，并为我们的客人举办一场祭祀宴会；然后我们就可以讨论护送他的问题，并考虑如何立即送他满怀喜悦地回到自己的祖国，而不会给他带来任何麻烦或不便，无论距离有多远。我们必须让他在回家的路上不受任何伤害，但是当他回到家时，他就必须像其他人一样，接受他与生俱来的运气。然而，这个陌生人也有可能是一位从天而降来拜访我们的神仙。但在这种情况下，众神却背离了他们通常的做法，因为迄今为止，当我们向他们提供百墓时，他们已经向我们完全清楚地表明了自己的意思。他们来参加我们的宴会，就像我们自己一样，如果有任何孤独的行人碰巧偶然发现他们中的某个人，他们也不会掩饰，因为我们与众神的亲缘关系就像独眼巨人和独眼巨人一样。野蛮的巨人是。”{62}

Then Ulysses said: ‘Pray, Alcinous, do not take any such notion into your head. I have nothing of the immortal about me, neither in body nor mind, and most resemble those among you who are the most afflicted. Indeed, were I to tell you all that heaven has seen fit to lay upon me, you would say that I was still worse off than they are. Nevertheless, let me sup in spite of sorrow, for an empty stomach is a very importunate thing, and thrusts itself on a man’s notice no matter how dire is his distress. I am in great trouble, yet it insists that I shall eat and drink, bids me lay aside all memory of my sorrows and dwell only on the due replenishing of itself. As for yourselves, do as you propose, and at break of day set about helping me to get home. I shall be content to die if I may first once more behold my property, my bondsmen, and all the greatness of my house.’ {63}
然后尤利西斯说道：“阿尔西诺斯，请祈祷，不要把这样的想法带入你的头脑。”我身上没有任何不朽的东西，无论是在身体上还是在心灵上，我最像你们中那些最受折磨的人。事实上，如果我告诉你上天认为适合加在我身上的一切，你会说我的处境仍然比他们更糟糕。尽管如此，尽管悲伤，还是让我吃晚饭吧，因为空腹是一件非常令人难以忍受的事情，无论一个人的痛苦有多么严重，它都会引起人们的注意。我遇到了很大的麻烦，但它却坚持要我吃喝，吩咐我抛开所有悲伤的记忆，只专注于适当的补充自己。至于你们自己，按照你们的建议去做吧，天一亮就帮我回家。如果我能再次看到我的财产、我的仆人和我的房子的所有伟大之处，我将满足于死。’{63}

Thus did he speak. Every one approved his saying, and agreed that he should have his escort inasmuch as he had spoken reasonably. Then when they had made their drink offerings, and had drunk each as much as he was minded they went home to bed every man in his own abode, leaving Ulysses in the cloister with Arete and Alcinous while the servants were taking the things away after supper. Arete was the first to speak, for she recognised the shirt, cloak, and good clothes that Ulysses was wearing, as the work of herself and of her maids; so she said, ‘Stranger, before we go any further, there is a question I should like to ask you. Who, and whence are you, and who gave you those clothes? Did you not say you had come here from beyond the sea?’
他就这样说了。大家都赞同他的说法，并认为他说得有道理，应该有人护送他。然后，当他们献完奠祭，喝完每个人想要喝的酒后，他们就回家睡觉了，每个人都在自己的住所里睡觉，把尤利西斯和阿雷特和阿尔西诺斯留在回廊里，而仆人们则在晚饭后把东西拿走。 。阿蕾特第一个说话，因为她认出尤利西斯穿的衬衫、斗篷和漂亮的衣服是她自己和她的女仆们的杰作。所以她说：‘陌生人，在我们继续讨论之前，我想问你一个问题。你是谁，从哪里来，谁给你这些衣服？你不是说你是从海那边来的吗？

And Ulysses answered, ‘It would be a long story Madam, were I to relate in full the tale of my misfortunes, for the hand of heaven has been laid heavy upon me; but as regards your question, there is an island far away in the sea which is called ‘the Ogygian.’ Here dwells the cunning and powerful goddess Calypso, daughter of Atlas. She lives by herself far from all neighbours human or divine. Fortune, however, brought me to her hearth all desolate and alone, for Jove struck my ship with his thunderbolts, and broke it up in mid-ocean. My brave comrades were drowned every man of them, but I stuck to the keel and was carried hither and thither for the space of nine days, till at last during the darkness of the tenth night the gods brought me to the Ogygian island where the great goddess Calypso lives. She took me in and treated me with the utmost kindness; indeed she wanted to make me immortal that I might never grow old, but she could not persuade me to let her do so.
尤利西斯回答说：“女士，如果我要完整地讲述我的不幸经历，那将是一个很长的故事，因为上天的手已经沉重地压在了我身上；但至于你的问题，在遥远的大海中有一座岛屿，名叫“奥吉吉亚岛”。这里居住着阿特拉斯之女，狡猾而强大的女神卡吕普索。她独自生活，远离所有人类或神灵的邻居。然而，命运把我带到了她的壁炉旁，一切都荒凉而孤独，因为朱庇特用他的雷电击中了我的船，并将其击碎在海洋中。我勇敢的战友们个个都被淹死了，但我坚持在龙骨上，在九天的时间里被带到这里和那里，直到最后在第十个晚上的黑暗中，众神把我带到了奥吉吉亚岛，那里伟大的女神卡吕普索活着。她收留了我，对我非常友善。事实上，她想让我长生不老，这样我就永远不会变老，但她无法说服我让她这样做。

‘I stayed with Calypso seven years straight on end, and watered the good clothes she gave me with my tears during the whole time; but at last when the eighth year came round she bade me depart of her own free will, either because Jove had told her she must, or because she had changed her mind. She sent me from her island on a raft, which she provisioned with abundance of bread and wine. Moreover she gave me good stout clothing, and sent me a wind that blew both warm and fair. Days seven and ten did I sail over the sea, and on the eighteenth I caught sight of the first outlines of the mountains upon your coast—and glad indeed was I to set eyes upon them. Nevertheless there was still much trouble in store for me, for at this point Neptune would let me go no further, and raised a great storm against me; the sea was so terribly high that I could no longer keep to my raft, which went to pieces under the fury of the gale, and I had to swim for it, till wind and current brought me to your shores.
“我和卡吕普索连续呆了七年，一直用泪水浇灌她送给我的好衣服；但最后，当第八年到来时，她自愿让我离开，要么是因为朱庇特告诉她必须离开，要么是因为她改变了主意。她用木筏把我从她的岛上送了过来，并为木筏提供了充足的面包和酒。她还给我穿上了厚实的衣服，给我送来了一阵温暖而美丽的风。第七天和第十天，我在海上航行，第十八天，我第一次看到了你们海岸上山脉的轮廓——我很高兴能看到它们。尽管如此，我仍然面临着许多麻烦，因为此时海王星不再让我继续前进，并对我发起了一场巨大的风暴；海水太高了，我的木筏在大风的猛烈袭击下已经支离破碎，我已经无法再守住它了，我不得不游过去，直到风和水流把我带到你的海岸。

‘There I tried to land, but could not, for it was a bad place and the waves dashed me against the rocks, so I again took to the sea and swam on till I came to a river that seemed the most likely landing place, for there were no rocks and it was sheltered from the wind. Here, then, I got out of the water and gathered my senses together again. Night was coming on, so I left the river, and went into a thicket, where I covered myself all over with leaves, and presently heaven sent me off into a very deep sleep. Sick and sorry as I was I slept among the leaves all night, and through the next day till afternoon, when I woke as the sun was westering, and saw your daughter’s maid servants playing upon the beach, and your daughter among them looking like a goddess. I besought her aid, and she proved to be of an excellent disposition, much more so than could be expected from so young a person—for young people are apt to be thoughtless. She gave me plenty of bread and wine, and when she had had me washed in the river she also gave me the clothes in which you see me. Now, therefore, though it has pained me to do so, I have told you the whole truth.’
“我试图在那里登陆，但没能成功，因为那是一个很糟糕的地方，海浪把我撞到岩石上，所以我再次游向大海，一直游到一条河边，那条河似乎是最有可能登陆的地方，因为这里没有岩石，也能避风。然后，我从水里爬了出来，再次集中了我的感官。夜幕降临了，我离开了河流，走进了一片灌木丛，用树叶把自己全身盖住，不一会儿，老天爷就让我进入了沉睡。尽管我病得很重，也很抱歉，我在树叶间睡了一整夜，一直睡到第二天下午，当我醒来时，太阳已经西斜了，看到你女儿的女仆在海滩上玩耍，你女儿在他们中间，看起来就像一个小女孩。女神。我请求她的帮助，事实证明她的性情非常好，远远超出了对这么年轻的人的期望——因为年轻人很容易轻率。她给了我很多面包和酒，当她让我在河里洗澡时，她还给了我你看到我穿的衣服。因此，现在，尽管这样做让我很痛苦，但我还是告诉了你全部真相。

Then Alcinous said, ‘Stranger, it was very wrong of my daughter not to bring you on at once to my house along with the maids, seeing that she was the first person whose aid you asked.’
阿尔西诺斯说道：“陌生人，我的女儿没有立即带你和女仆一起到我家来，这是非常错误的，因为她是你第一个寻求帮助的人。”

‘Pray do not scold her,’ replied Ulysses; ‘she is not to blame. She did tell me to follow along with the maids, but I was ashamed and afraid, for I thought you might perhaps be displeased if you saw me. Every human being is sometimes a little suspicious and irritable.’
“请不要责骂她，”尤利西斯回答道。 ‘她不应该受到责备。她确实让我跟着女仆一起走，但我又羞又害怕，因为我想你看到我可能会不高兴。每个人有时都会有点多疑和易怒。

‘Stranger,’ replied Alcinous, ‘I am not the kind of man to get angry about nothing; it is always better to be reasonable; but by Father Jove, Minerva, and Apollo, now that I see what kind of person you are, and how much you think as I do, I wish you would stay here, marry my daughter, and become my son-in-law. If you will stay I will give you a house and an estate, but no one (heaven forbid) shall keep you here against your own wish, and that you may be sure of this I will attend tomorrow to the matter of your escort. You can sleep {64} during the whole voyage if you like, and the men shall sail you over smooth waters either to your own home, or wherever you please, even though it be a long way further off than Euboea, which those of my people who saw it when they took yellow-haired Rhadamanthus to see Tityus the son of Gaia, tell me is the furthest of any place—and yet they did the whole voyage in a single day without distressing themselves, and came back again afterwards. You will thus see how much my ships excel all others, and what magnificent oarsmen my sailors are.’
“陌生人，”阿尔西诺斯回答道，“我不是那种无事生怒的人；讲道理总是更好；但以神父朱庇特、密涅瓦和阿波罗的名义，既然我知道你们是一个什么样的人，你们的想法和我有多少相同，我希望你们能留在这里，娶我的女儿，成为我的女婿。如果你愿意留下来，我会给你一套房子和一块地产，但没有人（但愿）不会违背你自己的意愿把你留在这里，为了让你确信这一点，我明天会处理你的护送事宜。如果你愿意的话，你可以在整个航程中睡觉{64}，人们会在平静的水面上将你航行到你自己的家，或者你想去的任何地方，即使它比优卑亚岛还要遥远，我的那些人当人们带着黄头发的拉达曼托斯去见盖亚之子提图斯时，他们告诉我这是最远的地方——然而他们却在一天之内完成了整个航行，没有让自己感到痛苦，然后又回来了。这样你就会看到我的船有多么优于其他船，我的水手们是多么出色的桨手。

Then was Ulysses glad and prayed aloud saying, ‘Father Jove, grant that Alcinous may do all as he has said, for so he will win an imperishable name among mankind, and at the same time I shall return to my country.’
尤利西斯高兴极了，大声祈祷道：“朱庇特神父，请让阿尔西诺斯按照他所说的去做，这样他就会在人类中赢得不朽的名声，同时我也将回到我的祖国。”

Thus did they converse. Then Arete told her maids to set a bed in the room that was in the gatehouse, and make it with good red rugs, and to spread coverlets on the top of them with woollen cloaks for Ulysses to wear. The maids thereon went out with torches in their hands, and when they had made the bed they came up to Ulysses and said, ‘Rise, sir stranger, and come with us for your bed is ready,’ and glad indeed was he to go to his rest.
他们就这样交谈。然后，阿瑞特让她的女仆在门楼的房间里摆一张床，铺上优质的红色地毯，在上面铺上床单，上面铺上羊毛斗篷，让尤利西斯穿。女仆们手里拿着火把出去了，当她们铺好床铺后，她们走到尤利西斯面前说：“起床，陌生人先生，和我们一起来，因为你的床铺已经准备好了。”他很高兴能去以便他休息。

So Ulysses slept in a bed placed in a room over the echoing gateway; but Alcinous lay in the inner part of the house, with the queen his wife by his side.
因此，尤利西斯睡在回声门上方房间里的床上。但阿尔西诺斯躺在房子的内部，他的妻子王后就在他身边。

BOOK VIII
第八册

BANQUET IN THE HOUSE OF ALCINOUS—THE GAMES.
阿尔西诺斯家里的宴会——游戏。

Now when the child of morning, rosy-fingered Dawn, appeared, Alcinous and Ulysses both rose, and Alcinous led the way to the Phaeacian place of assembly, which was near the ships. When they got there they sat down side by side on a seat of polished stone, while Minerva took the form of one of Alcinous’ servants, and went round the town in order to help Ulysses to get home. She went up to the citizens, man by man, and said, ‘Aldermen and town councillors of the Phaeacians, come to the assembly all of you and listen to the stranger who has just come off a long voyage to the house of King Alcinous; he looks like an immortal god.’
现在，当早晨的孩子，玫瑰色手指的黎明出现时，阿尔西诺斯和尤利西斯都站了起来，阿尔西诺斯带路前往菲亚西亚的集会地点，那里靠近船只。当他们到达那里时，他们并排坐在一张抛光的石凳上，而密涅瓦则化身为阿尔西诺斯的一名仆人，绕城一周，以帮助尤利西斯回家。她一个一个地走到公民面前，说道：“市议员和菲亚克斯人的镇议员，你们所有人都到集会中来，听听这位刚长途跋涉来到阿尔西诺斯王宫的陌生人的讲话；他看起来就像一位不朽的神。

With these words she made them all want to come, and they flocked to the assembly till seats and standing room were alike crowded. Every one was struck with the appearance of Ulysses, for Minerva had beautified him about the head and shoulders, making him look taller and stouter than he really was, that he might impress the Phaeacians favourably as being a very remarkable man, and might come off well in the many trials of skill to which they would challenge him. Then, when they were got together, Alcinous spoke:
她这番话让大家都想来，于是他们蜂拥而至，直到座位和站立的地方都挤满了人。每个人都被尤利西斯的外表所震撼，因为密涅瓦美化了他的头部和肩膀，使他看起来比实际身高更高、更粗壮，这样他就可以给菲埃克斯人留下深刻的印象，认为他是一个非常了不起的人，并且可能会被认为是一个非常了不起的人。他们将在许多技能考验中向他发起挑战。然后，当他们聚集在一起时，阿尔西诺斯说道：

‘Hear me,’ said he, ‘aldermen and town councillors of the Phaeacians, that I may speak even as I am minded. This stranger, whoever he may be, has found his way to my house from somewhere or other either East or West. He wants an escort and wishes to have the matter settled. Let us then get one ready for him, as we have done for others before him; indeed, no one who ever yet came to my house has been able to complain of me for not speeding on his way soon enough. Let us draw a ship into the sea—one that has never yet made a voyage—and man her with two and fifty of our smartest young sailors. Then when you have made fast your oars each by his own seat, leave the ship and come to my house to prepare a feast. {65} I will find you in everything. I am giving these instructions to the young men who will form the crew, for as regards you aldermen and town councillors, you will join me in entertaining our guest in the cloisters. I can take no excuses, and we will have Demodocus to sing to us; for there is no bard like him whatever he may choose to sing about.’
“请听我说，”他说，“菲埃基派的市议员和镇议员们，我可以随心所欲地说话。这个陌生人，无论他是谁，都从东方或西方的某个地方找到了我家的路。他想要有人护送并希望解决问题。那么，让我们为他准备一份，就像我们在他之前为其他人所做的那样；事实上，从来没有人来过我家，因为我没有尽快赶路而抱怨我。让我们把一艘从未航行过的船驶入大海，并为她配备两到五十名我们最聪明的年轻水手。然后，当你们各自在自己的座位上划好桨后，就可以下船到我家来准备筵席了。 {65}我会在一切事物中找到你。我正在向将组成船员的年轻人发出这些指示，因为至于你们市议员和市议员，你们将和我一起在回廊里招待我们的客人。我不能找任何借口，我们将有德摩多科斯为我们唱歌；因为没有哪个吟游诗人能像他一样，无论他选择唱什么。

Alcinous then led the way, and the others followed after, while a servant went to fetch Demodocus. The fifty-two picked oarsmen went to the sea shore as they had been told, and when they got there they drew the ship into the water, got her mast and sails inside her, bound the oars to the thole-pins with twisted thongs of leather, all in due course, and spread the white sails aloft. They moored the vessel a little way out from land, and then came on shore and went to the house of King Alcinous. The out houses, {66} yards, and all the precincts were filled with crowds of men in great multitudes both old and young; and Alcinous killed them a dozen sheep, eight full grown pigs, and two oxen. These they skinned and dressed so as to provide a magnificent banquet.
阿尔西诺斯在前面带路，其他人跟在后面，一名仆人则去接德摩多科斯。五十二名精挑细选的桨手按照他们的指示前往海边，到达那里后，他们将船拖入水中，将桅杆和帆放入船内，用扭曲的带子将桨绑在索销上。皮革，一切都在适当的时候，并在高处张开白色的帆。他们把船停泊在离陆地不远的地方，然后上岸，前往阿尔西努斯国王的宅邸。外面的房屋、{66} 码和所有辖区都挤满了一大群人，有老有少；阿尔西诺斯杀了他们十几只羊、八头成年猪和两头牛。他们将这些动物剥皮并穿戴好，以提供一场盛大的宴会。

A servant presently led in the famous bard Demodocus, whom the muse had dearly loved, but to whom she had given both good and evil, for though she had endowed him with a divine gift of song, she had robbed him of his eyesight. Pontonous set a seat for him among the guests, leaning it up against a bearing-post. He hung the lyre for him on a peg over his head, and showed him where he was to feel for it with his hands. He also set a fair table with a basket of victuals by his side, and a cup of wine from which he might drink whenever he was so disposed.
一位仆人立即领来了著名的吟游诗人德摩多克斯，缪斯女神深爱着他，但她赋予了他善与恶，因为虽然她赋予了他歌唱的神圣天赋，但她却剥夺了他的视力。庞托努斯在客人中为他安排了一个座位，靠在一根轴承柱上。他把里拉琴挂在他头顶上的一个钉子上，并指示他用手去摸它的位置。他还摆了一张漂亮的桌子，旁边放着一篮子食物，还有一杯酒，他想喝的时候就可以喝。

The company then laid their hands upon the good things that were before them, but as soon as they had had enough to eat and drink, the muse inspired Demodocus to sing the feats of heroes, and more especially a matter that was then in the mouths of all men, to wit, the quarrel between Ulysses and Achilles, and the fierce words that they heaped on one another as they sat together at a banquet. But Agamemnon was glad when he heard his chieftains quarrelling with one another, for Apollo had foretold him this at Pytho when he crossed the stone floor to consult the oracle. Here was the beginning of the evil that by the will of Jove fell both upon Danaans and Trojans.
随后，众人开始享用眼前的美好事物，但当他们吃饱喝足后，缪斯女神启发德摩多科斯歌颂英雄的壮举，尤其是当时人们口中的事情所有人中，尤利西斯和阿喀琉斯之间的争吵，以及他们在宴会上坐在一起时互相争吵的激烈争吵。但当阿伽门农听到他的酋长们互相争吵时，他很高兴，因为阿波罗在皮托穿过石地板咨询神谕时曾向他预言过这一点。这就是根据朱庇特的意志降临到达南人和特洛伊人身上的邪恶的开始。

Thus sang the bard, but Ulysses drew his purple mantle over his head and covered his face, for he was ashamed to let the Phaeacians see that he was weeping. When the bard left off singing he wiped the tears from his eyes, uncovered his face, and, taking his cup, made a drink-offering to the gods; but when the Phaeacians pressed Demodocus to sing further, for they delighted in his lays, then Ulysses again drew his mantle over his head and wept bitterly. No one noticed his distress except Alcinous, who was sitting near him, and heard the heavy sighs that he was heaving. So he at once said, ‘Aldermen and town councillors of the Phaeacians, we have had enough now, both of the feast, and of the minstrelsy that is its due accompaniment; let us proceed therefore to the athletic sports, so that our guest on his return home may be able to tell his friends how much we surpass all other nations as boxers, wrestlers, jumpers, and runners.’
吟游诗人如此唱道，但尤利西斯把他的紫色斗篷拉到头上并遮住了他的脸，因为他羞于让斐阿克人看到他在哭泣。当吟游诗人停止歌唱时，他擦去眼中的泪水，揭开脸，拿起杯子向众神敬酒。但是，当费埃克斯人强迫德摩多科斯继续唱下去时，因为他们很喜欢他的歌声，尤利西斯又把斗篷拉到头上，痛哭起来。除了坐在他旁边的阿尔西努斯，没有人注意到他的痛苦，并听到他沉重的叹息声。于是他立即说道：“市议会议员和菲亚克斯人的镇议员们，我们现在已经受够了这场盛宴，也受够了与之相伴的吟游诗人；现在我们已经受够了。”因此，让我们继续进行体育运动，以便我们的客人回国后能够告诉他的朋友，我们在拳击手、摔跤手、跳远运动员和跑步运动员方面远远超过了所有其他国家。

With these words he led the way, and the others followed after. A servant hung Demodocus’s lyre on its peg for him, led him out of the cloister, and set him on the same way as that along which all the chief men of the Phaeacians were going to see the sports; a crowd of several thousands of people followed them, and there were many excellent competitors for all the prizes. Acroneos, Ocyalus, Elatreus, Nauteus, Prymneus, Anchialus, Eretmeus, Ponteus, Proreus, Thoon, Anabesineus, and Amphialus son of Polyneus son of Tecton. There was also Euryalus son of Naubolus, who was like Mars himself, and was the best looking man among the Phaeacians except Laodamas. Three sons of Alcinous, Laodamas, Halios, and Clytoneus, competed also.
此话一出，他在前面带路，其他人也跟在后面。一个仆人帮他把德摩多科斯的竖琴挂在了木桩上，把他带出了修道院，把他带到了所有菲亚克斯人的首领观看体育运动的那条路上。数千人跟随在后，所有奖项都有许多优秀的竞争者。阿克罗尼俄斯、奥库亚罗斯、埃拉特鲁斯、诺特乌斯、普里姆纽斯、安基阿罗斯、埃雷特缪斯、庞透斯、普罗罗乌斯、图恩、阿纳贝西纽斯和泰克顿之子波利纽斯的儿子安菲阿罗斯。还有诺博卢斯的儿子欧律亚卢斯，他就像马尔斯本人，是斐伊基人中除了劳达马斯之外最漂亮的人。阿尔西诺斯的三个儿子劳达马斯、哈利奥斯和克莱托纽斯也参加了比赛。

The foot races came first. The course was set out for them from the starting post, and they raised a dust upon the plain as they all flew forward at the same moment. Clytoneus came in first by a long way; he left every one else behind him by the length of the furrow that a couple of mules can plough in a fallow field. {67} They then turned to the painful art of wrestling, and here Euryalus proved to be the best man. Amphialus excelled all the others in jumping, while at throwing the disc there was no one who could approach Elatreus. Alcinous’s son Laodamas was the best boxer, and he it was who presently said, when they had all been diverted with the games, ‘Let us ask the stranger whether he excels in any of these sports; he seems very powerfully built; his thighs, calves, hands, and neck are of prodigious strength, nor is he at all old, but he has suffered much lately, and there is nothing like the sea for making havoc with a man, no matter how strong he is.’
首先是竞走。他们的路线从出发点就已经设定好了，他们同时向前飞去，在平原上扬起一片尘土。克莱托纽斯遥遥领先。他把其他人甩在了身后，犁沟的长度只有几头骡子可以在休耕地里耕犁。 {67}然后他们转向痛苦的摔跤艺术，在这里Euryalus被证明是最好的人。安菲阿罗斯在跳跃方面胜过所有其他人，而在投掷圆盘方面则无人能及埃拉特罗斯。阿尔西诺斯的儿子劳达马斯是最好的拳击手，当他们都因比赛而转移注意力时，正是他立即说道：“让我们问问这个陌生人，他是否擅长这些运动中的任何一项；他是否擅长这项运动？”他看起来体格非常强壮；他的大腿、小腿、手、脖子都力大无穷，而且年纪也不大，但最近受了很多苦，再强的人，再没有什么比大海更能摧残他的了。

‘You are quite right, Laodamas,’ replied Euryalus, ‘go up to your guest and speak to him about it yourself.’
“你说得对，劳达马斯，”尤里亚卢斯回答道，“去见你的客人，亲自和他谈谈这件事。”

When Laodamas heard this he made his way into the middle of the crowd and said to Ulysses, ‘I hope, Sir, that you will enter yourself for some one or other of our competitions if you are skilled in any of them—and you must have gone in for many a one before now. There is nothing that does any one so much credit all his life long as the showing himself a proper man with his hands and feet. Have a try therefore at something, and banish all sorrow from your mind. Your return home will not be long delayed, for the ship is already drawn into the water, and the crew is found.’
当劳达马斯听到这句话时，他走到人群中间，对尤利西斯说：“先生，我希望您能参加我们的一项或多项比赛，如果您擅长其中任何一项比赛的话——而且您必须之前已经参加过很多次了。一个人一生中没有什么比用自己的双手和双脚表现出一个正派的人更值得赞扬的了。因此，尝试一些事情，消除心中所有的悲伤。你回家的时间不会耽误太久，因为船已经被拖入水中，船员也已经找到了。”

Ulysses answered, ‘Laodamas, why do you taunt me in this way? my mind is set rather on cares than contests; I have been through infinite trouble, and am come among you now as a suppliant, praying your king and people to further me on my return home.’
尤利西斯回答说：“老大们，你们为什么这样嘲笑我？我的心思更多的是关心而不是竞赛；我经历了无限的麻烦，现在作为一个恳求者来到你们中间，祈祷你们的国王和人民在我回家时帮助我。

Then Euryalus reviled him outright and said, ‘I gather, then, that you are unskilled in any of the many sports that men generally delight in. I suppose you are one of those grasping traders that go about in ships as captains or merchants, and who think of nothing but of their outward freights and homeward cargoes. There does not seem to be much of the athlete about you.’
然后欧律阿罗斯公然辱骂他，说道：“那么，我猜想，你对人类普遍喜爱的众多运动中的任何一项都不熟练。我想你是那些在船上作为船长或商人的贪婪的商人之一，并且他们只想着外出的货物和回家的货物。你身上似乎没有多少运动员的影子。

‘For shame, Sir,’ answered Ulysses, fiercely, ‘you are an insolent fellow—so true is it that the gods do not grace all men alike in speech, person, and understanding. One man may be of weak presence, but heaven has adorned this with such a good conversation that he charms every one who sees him; his honeyed moderation carries his hearers with him so that he is leader in all assemblies of his fellows, and wherever he goes he is looked up to. Another may be as handsome as a god, but his good looks are not crowned with discretion. This is your case. No god could make a finer looking fellow than you are, but you are a fool. Your ill-judged remarks have made me exceedingly angry, and you are quite mistaken, for I excel in a great many athletic exercises; indeed, so long as I had youth and strength, I was among the first athletes of the age. Now, however, I am worn out by labour and sorrow, for I have gone through much both on the field of battle and by the waves of the weary sea; still, in spite of all this I will compete, for your taunts have stung me to the quick.’
“真是耻辱，先生，”尤利西斯严厉地回答道，“你是一个无礼的家伙——事实是，众神在言语、人品和理解力上并不会同样地恩待所有人。一个人的风度可能很弱，但上天却用如此好的谈吐来装饰他，让每一个看到他的人都着迷。他的温和温和使他的听众与他同在，因此他在所有同胞集会中都是领导者，无论他走到哪里，他都受到尊敬。另一个人可能英俊如神，但他的美貌并不带有谨慎。这是你的情况。没有哪个神能创造出比你更漂亮的家伙，但你是个傻瓜。你的错误判断让我非常生气，你完全错了，因为我在很多体育运动方面都表现出色。确实，只要我年轻有力量，我就是这个时代第一批运动员之一。然而现在，我已因劳苦和悲伤而疲惫不堪，因为我在战场上经历了很多，在疲倦的大海上也经历了波涛。尽管如此，尽管如此，我还是会参加比赛，因为你的嘲讽已经刺痛了我。

So he hurried up without even taking his cloak off, and seized a disc, larger, more massive and much heavier than those used by the Phaeacians when disc-throwing among themselves. {68} Then, swinging it back, he threw it from his brawny hand, and it made a humming sound in the air as he did so. The Phaeacians quailed beneath the rushing of its flight as it sped gracefully from his hand, and flew beyond any mark that had been made yet. Minerva, in the form of a man, came and marked the place where it had fallen. ‘A blind man, Sir,’ said she, ‘could easily tell your mark by groping for it—it is so far ahead of any other. You may make your mind easy about this contest, for no Phaeacian can come near to such a throw as yours.’
于是，他连斗篷都没有脱下来，就赶紧走上前去，抓起一个圆盘，比费伊克斯人互相投掷圆盘时使用的圆盘更大、更重，也更重。 {68}然后，他将其向后摆动，从他强壮的手中扔出它，当他这样做时，它在空中发出嗡嗡声。当它优雅地从他手中飞过时，菲亚克斯人在它的急速飞行中瑟瑟发抖，飞出了尚未留下的任何痕迹。密涅瓦以人形出现，并标记了它坠落的地方。 “先生，一个盲人，”她说，“通过摸索就能轻易地认出你的标记——它远远领先于其他标记。你可以放心地对待这场比赛，因为没有哪个菲亚克人能像你那样投出这样的球。

Ulysses was glad when he found he had a friend among the lookers-on, so he began to speak more pleasantly. ‘Young men,’ said he, ‘come up to that throw if you can, and I will throw another disc as heavy or even heavier. If anyone wants to have a bout with me let him come on, for I am exceedingly angry; I will box, wrestle, or run, I do not care what it is, with any man of you all except Laodamas, but not with him because I am his guest, and one cannot compete with one’s own personal friend. At least I do not think it a prudent or a sensible thing for a guest to challenge his host’s family at any game, especially when he is in a foreign country. He will cut the ground from under his own feet if he does; but I make no exception as regards any one else, for I want to have the matter out and know which is the best man. I am a good hand at every kind of athletic sport known among mankind. I am an excellent archer. In battle I am always the first to bring a man down with my arrow, no matter how many more are taking aim at him alongside of me. Philoctetes was the only man who could shoot better than I could when we Achaeans were before Troy and in practice. I far excel every one else in the whole world, of those who still eat bread upon the face of the earth, but I should not like to shoot against the mighty dead, such as Hercules, or Eurytus the Oechalian—men who could shoot against the gods themselves. This in fact was how Eurytus came prematurely by his end, for Apollo was angry with him and killed him because he challenged him as an archer. I can throw a dart farther than any one else can shoot an arrow. Running is the only point in respect of which I am afraid some of the Phaeacians might beat me, for I have been brought down very low at sea; my provisions ran short, and therefore I am still weak.’
当尤利西斯发现围观者中有一位朋友时，他很高兴，所以他开始更加愉快地说话了。 “年轻人，”他说，“如果可以的话，就来投掷，我会再投掷一个同样重或什至更重的圆盘。如果有人想跟我打架，就尽管来吧，因为我非常生气。我会和你们中的任何一个人打拳击、摔跤或跑步，我不在乎这是什么，除了老达马斯，但不会和他，因为我是他的客人，一个人不能与自己的私人朋友竞争。至少我不认为客人在任何比赛中挑战东道主的家人都是明智的事情，尤其是当他身在异国他乡的时候。如果他这样做，他就会把自己脚下的土地砍掉；但我对其他人也不例外，因为我想把事情弄清楚并知道谁是最好的人。我擅长人类已知的各种体育运动。我是一名优秀的弓箭手。在战斗中，我总是第一个用我的箭射倒一个人，无论我旁边还有多少人瞄准他。当我们亚该亚人在特洛伊之前和在训练中时，菲罗克忒忒斯是唯一一个比我射得更好的人。我远远胜过世界上那些仍然在地球上吃面包的人，但我不喜欢向强大的死者开枪，例如赫拉克勒斯或奥卡利安人尤里图斯——他们可以向那些强大的死者开枪。众神本身。事实上，尤律托斯就是这样过早地死去的，因为阿波罗因为挑战他的弓箭手身份而对他生气并杀死了他。我能把飞镖扔得比任何人射箭都远。 跑步是唯一一点，我担心某些菲亚克斯人可能会打败我，因为我已经在海上被击落到很低的地方了。我的粮食不够了，所以我还是很虚弱。’

They all held their peace except King Alcinous, who began, ‘Sir, we have had much pleasure in hearing all that you have told us, from which I understand that you are willing to show your prowess, as having been displeased with some insolent remarks that have been made to you by one of our athletes, and which could never have been uttered by any one who knows how to talk with propriety. I hope you will apprehend my meaning, and will explain to any one of your chief men who may be dining with yourself and your family when you get home, that we have an hereditary aptitude for accomplishments of all kinds. We are not particularly remarkable for our boxing, nor yet as wrestlers, but we are singularly fleet of foot and are excellent sailors. We are extremely fond of good dinners, music, and dancing; we also like frequent changes of linen, warm baths, and good beds, so now, please, some of you who are the best dancers set about dancing, that our guest on his return home may be able to tell his friends how much we surpass all other nations as sailors, runners, dancers, and minstrels. Demodocus has left his lyre at my house, so run some one or other of you and fetch it for him.’
除了阿尔西努斯国王，他们都保持沉默，他开始说道：“先生，我们很高兴听到您告诉我们的一切，从中我了解到您愿意展示您的英勇，因为您对一些无礼的言论感到不满这句话是我们的一位运动员对你说的，任何一个懂礼貌的人都不会说出这样的话。我希望您能理解我的意思，并向您回家后可能与您和家人一起用餐的任何一位主要负责人解释，我们有一种遗传的能力，可以取得各种成就。我们在拳击方面并不是特别出色，在摔跤手方面也不是特别出色，但我们的脚步非常敏捷，并且是出色的水手。我们非常喜欢美味的晚餐、音乐和舞蹈；我们还喜欢经常更换床单、洗热水澡和舒适的床铺，所以现在请你们中最优秀的舞者开始跳舞，以便我们的客人回家后可以告诉他的朋友我们超越了多少所有其他国家的水手、跑步者、舞者和吟游诗人。德摩多克斯把他的竖琴留在了我家，所以请你们中的某个人去帮他取来。

On this a servant hurried off to bring the lyre from the king’s house, and the nine men who had been chosen as stewards stood forward. It was their business to manage everything connected with the sports, so they made the ground smooth and marked a wide space for the dancers. Presently the servant came back with Demodocus’s lyre, and he took his place in the midst of them, whereon the best young dancers in the town began to foot and trip it so nimbly that Ulysses was delighted with the merry twinkling of their feet.
听到这个消息，一个仆人赶紧去把竖琴从王宫拿来，被选为管家的九个人站了出来。他们的职责是管理与体育运动相关的一切，因此他们把地面弄得光滑，为舞者划出了广阔的空间。不久，仆人带着德摩多克斯的七弦琴回来了，他在他们中间占据了位置，镇上最优秀的年轻舞者开始迈步，敏捷地踢着它，尤利西斯对他们的脚步欢快地闪烁感到高兴。

Meanwhile the bard began to sing the loves of Mars and Venus, and how they first began their intrigue in the house of Vulcan. Mars made Venus many presents, and defiled King Vulcan’s marriage bed, so the sun, who saw what they were about, told Vulcan. Vulcan was very angry when he heard such dreadful news, so he went to his smithy brooding mischief, got his great anvil into its place, and began to forge some chains which none could either unloose or break, so that they might stay there in that place. {69} When he had finished his snare he went into his bedroom and festooned the bed-posts all over with chains like cobwebs; he also let many hang down from the great beam of the ceiling. Not even a god could see them so fine and subtle were they. As soon as he had spread the chains all over the bed, he made as though he were setting out for the fair state of Lemnos, which of all places in the world was the one he was most fond of. But Mars kept no blind look out, and as soon as he saw him start, hurried off to his house, burning with love for Venus.
与此同时，吟游诗人开始吟唱火星和维纳斯的爱情，以及他们如何第一次在瓦肯人的房子里开始他们的阴谋。火星给了金星许多礼物，并且玷污了瓦肯国王的婚床，因此太阳看到了它们的情况，告诉了瓦肯。伏尔甘听到这个可怕的消息后非常生气，于是他开始了他的铁匠铺的恶作剧，把他的大铁砧放到了原来的位置，开始锻造一些没有人能松开或打破的锁链，这样它们就可以留在那儿了。地方。 {69}当他完成他的圈套后，他走进卧室，用像蜘蛛网一样的铁链装饰床柱；他还让许多人从天花板的大梁上垂下来。即使是神也看不到它们如此精致和微妙。他一把链子铺满了床上，就好像他正出发前往美丽的利姆诺斯岛，在世界上所有的地方中，那里是他最喜欢的地方。但火星并没有盲目地注视着，一看到他开始，就急忙跑回自己的家，心中燃烧着对维纳斯的爱。

Now Venus was just come in from a visit to her father Jove, and was about sitting down when Mars came inside the house, and said as he took her hand in his own, ‘Let us go to the couch of Vulcan: he is not at home, but is gone off to Lemnos among the Sintians, whose speech is barbarous.’
现在，维纳斯刚刚拜访完她的父亲朱庇特，正要坐下来，这时马尔斯走进了屋子，他握着她的手说道：“让我们去瓦肯人的沙发上吧：他不是在家里，但去了利姆诺斯岛，与辛蒂亚人在一起，他们的言语是野蛮的。

She was nothing loth, so they went to the couch to take their rest, whereon they were caught in the toils which cunning Vulcan had spread for them, and could neither get up nor stir hand or foot, but found too late that they were in a trap. Then Vulcan came up to them, for he had turned back before reaching Lemnos, when his scout the sun told him what was going on. He was in a furious passion, and stood in the vestibule making a dreadful noise as he shouted to all the gods.
她并不懒惰，所以他们走到沙发上休息，在沙发上他们陷入了狡猾的瓦肯人为他们安排的辛劳之中，既不能站起来，也不能动动手脚，但发现为时已晚。陷阱。然后瓦肯向他们走来，因为他在到达利姆诺斯岛之前就折返了，这时他的侦察者太阳告诉了他发生了什么事。他怒火中烧，站在门厅里，发出可怕的声音，向众神呼喊。

‘Father Jove,’ he cried, ‘and all you other blessed gods who live for ever, come here and see the ridiculous and disgraceful sight that I will show you. Jove’s daughter Venus is always dishonouring me because I am lame. She is in love with Mars, who is handsome and clean built, whereas I am a cripple—but my parents are to blame for that, not I; they ought never to have begotten me. Come and see the pair together asleep on my bed. It makes me furious to look at them. They are very fond of one another, but I do not think they will lie there longer than they can help, nor do I think that they will sleep much; there, however, they shall stay till her father has repaid me the sum I gave him for his baggage of a daughter, who is fair but not honest.’
“朱庇特神父，”他喊道，“还有你们所有其他永生的受祝福的神，请到这里来，看看我将向你们展示的可笑和可耻的景象。朱庇特的女儿维纳斯总是因为我跛脚而羞辱我。她爱上了马尔斯，他英俊、干净，而我是个瘸子——但这应该归咎于我的父母，而不是我；他们根本不应该生下我。过来看看他们俩一起睡在我的床上。看着他们让我很愤怒。他们彼此非常相爱，但我不认为他们会在那里躺太久，也不认为他们会睡太多。然而，他们将留在那里，直到她父亲偿还我为他的女儿所付的钱，她是公平但不诚实的。

On this the gods gathered to the house of Vulcan. Earth-encircling Neptune came, and Mercury the bringer of luck, and King Apollo, but the goddesses staid at home all of them for shame. Then the givers of all good things stood in the doorway, and the blessed gods roared with inextinguishable laughter, as they saw how cunning Vulcan had been, whereon one would turn towards his neighbour saying:
众神就此聚集到伏尔甘的殿堂。环绕地球的海王星来了，幸运使者水星来了，阿波罗王也来了，但女神们都羞愧地呆在家里。然后，所有美好事物的赐予者站在门口，受祝福的众神看到伏尔甘是多么狡猾，便发出无法熄灭的笑声，人们会转向他的邻居说：

‘Ill deeds do not prosper, and the weak confound the strong. See how limping Vulcan, lame as he is, has caught Mars who is the fleetest god in heaven; and now Mars will be cast in heavy damages.’
‘恶行不兴，弱者欺强者。看看瓦肯 (Vulcan) 是如何一瘸一拐地抓住了天上最快的神马尔斯 (Mars)；现在火星将遭受严重破坏。

Thus did they converse, but King Apollo said to Mercury, ‘Messenger Mercury, giver of good things, you would not care how strong the chains were, would you, if you could sleep with Venus?’
他们就这样交谈着，但阿波罗国王对墨丘利说：“墨丘利使者，美好事物的赐予者，如果你能和维纳斯一起睡觉，你就不会在意锁链有多坚固，不是吗？”

‘King Apollo,’ answered Mercury, ‘I only wish I might get the chance, though there were three times as many chains—and you might look on, all of you, gods and goddesses, but I would sleep with her if I could.’
“阿波罗国王，”墨丘利回答道，“我只希望能有机会，尽管锁链的数量是三倍——诸神诸神，你们可能会看着，但如果可以的话，我愿意和她一起睡觉。” .'

The immortal gods burst out laughing as they heard him, but Neptune took it all seriously, and kept on imploring Vulcan to set Mars free again. ‘Let him go,’ he cried, ‘and I will undertake, as you require, that he shall pay you all the damages that are held reasonable among the immortal gods.’
不朽的诸神听了他的话，哈哈大笑，但海王星认真对待这一切，并不断恳求瓦肯再次释放火星。 “放了他，”他喊道，“我会按照你的要求，向你支付不朽诸神中合理的所有损失。”

‘Do not,’ replied Vulcan, ‘ask me to do this; a bad man’s bond is bad security; what remedy could I enforce against you if Mars should go away and leave his debts behind him along with his chains?’
“不要，”伏尔甘回答说，“让我这么做；坏人的债券是不好的安全保障；如果马尔斯离开并留下他的债务和锁链，我能对你采取什么补救措施呢？

‘Vulcan,’ said Neptune, ‘if Mars goes away without paying his damages, I will pay you myself.’ So Vulcan answered, ‘In this case I cannot and must not refuse you.’
“瓦肯人，”海王星说，“如果火星不支付赔偿金就离开，我会亲自赔偿你。”因此瓦肯人回答说：“在这种情况下，我不能也不能拒绝你。”

Thereon he loosed the bonds that bound them, and as soon as they were free they scampered off, Mars to Thrace and laughter-loving Venus to Cyprus and to Paphos, where is her grove and her altar fragrant with burnt offerings. Here the Graces bathed her, and anointed her with oil of ambrosia such as the immortal gods make use of, and they clothed her in raiment of the most enchanting beauty.
于是，他松开了束缚他们的绳索，他们一获得自由，就逃走了，火星去了色雷斯，爱笑的金星去了塞浦路斯和帕福斯，那里有她的小树林和散发着燔祭香气的祭坛。三位美惠女神在这里为她沐浴，并用不朽诸神所使用的神仙油给她涂油，并给她穿上最迷人美丽的衣服。

Thus sang the bard, and both Ulysses and the seafaring Phaeacians were charmed as they heard him.
吟游诗人如此唱道，尤利西斯和航海的斐阿克人听到他的歌声后都被迷住了。

Then Alcinous told Laodamas and Halius to dance alone, for there was no one to compete with them. So they took a red ball which Polybus had made for them, and one of them bent himself backwards and threw it up towards the clouds, while the other jumped from off the ground and caught it with ease before it came down again. When they had done throwing the ball straight up into the air they began to dance, and at the same time kept on throwing it backwards and forwards to one another, while all the young men in the ring applauded and made a great stamping with their feet. Then Ulysses said:
然后阿尔西诺斯让劳达马斯和哈利厄斯单独跳舞，因为没有人可以与他们竞争。于是，他们拿起波吕波斯为他们做的一个红球，其中一个向后弯腰，把它抛向云端，另一个从地上跳下来，轻松地接住了它，然后它又落了下来。当他们把球笔直地抛向空中后，他们开始跳舞，同时不断地前后抛球，而擂台上的所有年轻人都鼓掌并用脚跺着脚。 。然后尤利西斯说道：

‘King Alcinous, you said your people were the nimblest dancers in the world, and indeed they have proved themselves to be so. I was astonished as I saw them.’
“阿尔西努斯国王，您说过您的人民是世界上最敏捷的舞者，事实上，他们已经证明了自己是这样的。当我看到他们时我很惊讶。

The king was delighted at this, and exclaimed to the Phaeacians, ‘Aldermen and town councillors, our guest seems to be a person of singular judgement; let us give him such proof of our hospitality as he may reasonably expect. There are twelve chief men among you, and counting myself there are thirteen; contribute, each of you, a clean cloak, a shirt, and a talent of fine gold; let us give him all this in a lump down at once, so that when he gets his supper he may do so with a light heart. As for Euryalus he will have to make a formal apology and a present too, for he has been rude.’
国王对此非常高兴，他对菲亚克斯人说道：“市议员和镇议员们，我们的客人似乎是一位具有非凡判断力的人；让我们向他证明我们的热情好客，正如他所合理期望的那样。你们中的首领有十二人，我算起来有十三人。你们每人贡献一件干净的斗篷、一件衬衫和一才的精金；让我们立即把所有这些都给他，这样当他吃晚饭时，他就可以轻松地吃晚饭了。至于欧律亚鲁斯，他必须正式道歉并送上一份礼物，因为他很粗鲁。

Thus did he speak. The others all of them applauded his saying, and sent their servants to fetch the presents. Then Euryalus said, ‘King Alcinous, I will give the stranger all the satisfaction you require. He shall have my sword, which is of bronze, all but the hilt, which is of silver. I will also give him the scabbard of newly sawn ivory into which it fits. It will be worth a great deal to him.’
他就这样说了。其他人都拍手叫好，纷纷派仆人去取礼物。然后欧律亚鲁斯说道：“阿尔西诺斯国王，我会给这个陌生人你所要求的一切满足。”他将拥有我的青铜剑，除了银剑柄。我还将给他新锯的象牙刀鞘，刀鞘适合它。这对他来说非常有价值。

As he spoke he placed the sword in the hands of Ulysses and said, ‘Good luck to you, father stranger; if anything has been said amiss may the winds blow it away with them, and may heaven grant you a safe return, for I understand you have been long away from home, and have gone through much hardship.’
他边说边把剑交到尤利西斯手中，说道：“祝你好运，陌生人父亲；如果有什么说错的话，愿风把它一起吹走，愿上天保佑你平安归来，因为我知道你已经离开家乡很长时间了，并且经历了很多困难。

To which Ulysses answered, ‘Good luck to you too my friend, and may the gods grant you every happiness. I hope you will not miss the sword you have given me along with your apology.’
尤利西斯回答道：“我的朋友，祝你好运，愿诸神赐予你一切幸福。”我希望你不会错过你送给我的剑以及你的道歉。

With these words he girded the sword about his shoulders and towards sundown the presents began to make their appearance, as the servants of the donors kept bringing them to the house of King Alcinous; here his sons received them, and placed them under their mother’s charge. Then Alcinous led the way to the house and bade his guests take their seats.
说完这句话，他将剑挂在肩上，日落时分，礼物开始出现，捐赠者的仆人不断地将它们带到阿尔西诺斯国王的宫殿。他的儿子们在这里接待了他们，并把他们交给母亲照顾。然后阿尔西努斯领路到屋里，请客人入座。

‘Wife,’ said he, turning to Queen Arete, ‘Go, fetch the best chest we have, and put a clean cloak and shirt in it. Also, set a copper on the fire and heat some water; our guest will take a warm bath; see also to the careful packing of the presents that the noble Phaeacians have made him; he will thus better enjoy both his supper and the singing that will follow. I shall myself give him this golden goblet—which is of exquisite workmanship—that he may be reminded of me for the rest of his life whenever he makes a drink offering to Jove, or to any of the gods.’ {70}
“妻子，”他转向阿雷特王后说道，“去拿我们最好的箱子来，把一件干净的斗篷和衬衫放进去。另外，将铜放在火上并加热一些水；我们的客人将洗个热水澡；还要注意仔细包装高贵的菲埃克斯人为他准备的礼物；这样他就能更好地享受他的晚餐和接下来的歌声。我将亲自送给他这个做工精美的金酒杯，以便他在余生中每当他向朱庇特或任何一位神明奠祭时都会想起我。’{70}

Then Arete told her maids to set a large tripod upon the fire as fast as they could, whereon they set a tripod full of bath water on to a clear fire; they threw on sticks to make it blaze, and the water became hot as the flame played about the belly of the tripod. {71} Meanwhile Arete brought a magnificent chest from her own room, and inside it she packed all the beautiful presents of gold and raiment which the Phaeacians had brought. Lastly she added a cloak and a good shirt from Alcinous, and said to Ulysses:
然后，阿瑞特让她的女仆们以最快的速度在火上架起一个大三脚架，然后把装满洗澡水的三脚架放在清澈的火上。他们扔上木棍，让它着火，当火焰在三脚架的腹部游动时，水就变热了。 {71}与此同时，阿瑞特从她自己的房间里带来了一个华丽的箱子，里面装满了菲亚西亚人带来的所有美丽的金子和衣服礼物。最后她又添了一件阿尔西诺斯的斗篷和一件上好的衬衫，并对尤利西斯说：

‘See to the lid yourself, and have the whole bound round at once, for fear any one should rob you by the way when you are asleep in your ship.’ {72}
“你自己看好盖子，立即把整个捆起来，以免有人在你在船上睡觉时顺便抢劫你。”{72}

When Ulysses heard this he put the lid on the chest and made it fast with a bond that Circe had taught him. He had done so before an upper servant told him to come to the bath and wash himself. He was very glad of a warm bath, for he had had no one to wait upon him ever since he left the house of Calypso, who as long as he remained with her had taken as good care of him as though he had been a god. When the servants had done washing and anointing him with oil, and had given him a clean cloak and shirt, he left the bath room and joined the guests who were sitting over their wine. Lovely Nausicaa stood by one of the bearing-posts supporting the roof of the cloister, and admired him as she saw him pass. ‘Farewell stranger,’ said she, ‘do not forget me when you are safe at home again, for it is to me first that you owe a ransom for having saved your life.’
当尤利西斯听到这句话时，他把盖子放在箱子上，并用喀耳刻教给他的纽带将其固定住。他这样做了之后，上层仆人叫他去浴室洗澡。他很高兴能洗个热水澡，因为自从他离开卡吕普索的家后，就没有人伺候他了，只要他和她在一起，卡吕普索就一直照顾他，就像照顾神一样。 。当仆人给他清洗干净并给他抹上油，并给了他一件干净的斗篷和衬衫时，他离开浴室，加入了坐在酒桌上的客人们。可爱的娜乌西卡站在支撑回廊屋顶的一根支柱旁，看到他经过时，对他赞叹不已。 “再见了，陌生人，”她说，“当你安全回到家时，不要忘记我，因为我首先欠你一笔赎金，因为我救了你的命。”

And Ulysses said, ‘Nausicaa, daughter of great Alcinous, may Jove the mighty husband of Juno, grant that I may reach my home; so shall I bless you as my guardian angel all my days, for it was you who saved me.’
尤利西斯说道：“伟大的阿尔西诺斯的女儿娜乌西卡，愿朱诺强大的丈夫朱庇特允许我回家；所以我将一生祝福你作为我的守护天使，因为是你拯救了我。

When he had said this, he seated himself beside Alcinous. Supper was then served, and the wine was mixed for drinking. A servant led in the favourite bard Demodocus, and set him in the midst of the company, near one of the bearing-posts supporting the cloister, that he might lean against it. Then Ulysses cut off a piece of roast pork with plenty of fat (for there was abundance left on the joint) and said to a servant, ‘Take this piece of pork over to Demodocus and tell him to eat it; for all the pain his lays may cause me I will salute him none the less; bards are honoured and respected throughout the world, for the muse teaches them their songs and loves them.’
说完这句话，他在阿尔西诺斯身边坐下。遂设晚饭，调酒饮用。一名仆人领着最喜欢的吟游诗人德摩多科斯，把他安排在队伍中间，靠近支撑回廊的一根支撑柱，这样他就可以靠在上面。尤利西斯切下一块烤猪肉，上面有很多脂肪（因为肉块上还剩下很多脂肪），对仆人说：“把这块猪肉交给德摩多科斯，让他吃掉；然后，你就可以吃掉它了。”尽管他所造成的痛苦可能会给我带来许多痛苦，但我仍要向他致敬；吟游诗人在全世界都受到尊敬和尊重，因为缪斯教他们歌曲并爱他们。

The servant carried the pork in his fingers over to Demodocus, who took it and was very much pleased. They then laid their hands on the good things that were before them, and as soon as they had had to eat and drink, Ulysses said to Demodocus, ‘Demodocus, there is no one in the world whom I admire more than I do you. You must have studied under the Muse, Jove’s daughter, and under Apollo, so accurately do you sing the return of the Achaeans with all their sufferings and adventures. If you were not there yourself, you must have heard it all from some one who was. Now, however, change your song and tell us of the wooden horse which Epeus made with the assistance of Minerva, and which Ulysses got by stratagem into the fort of Troy after freighting it with the men who afterwards sacked the city. If you will sing this tale aright I will tell all the world how magnificently heaven has endowed you.’
仆人用手指把猪肉递给德摩多克斯，德摩多克斯接过，非常高兴。然后他们把手放在面前的好东西上，等他们吃饱喝足后，尤利西斯对德摩多科斯说：“德摩多科斯，世界上没有人比你更令我钦佩了。”你一定是在缪斯女神、朱庇特的女儿和阿波罗的指导下学习的，所以你如此准确地唱出了亚该亚人的归来及其所有的苦难和冒险。如果您本人不在场，那么您一定是从某个在场的人那里听到了这一切。然而，现在，改变你的歌曲，告诉我们埃珀斯在密涅瓦的帮助下制造的木马，尤利西斯用计谋将木马运入特洛伊堡垒，然后将其与后来洗劫该城的人一起运送。如果你能唱好这个故事，我会告诉全世界上天赐予了你多么伟大的礼物。

The bard inspired of heaven took up the story at the point where some of the Argives set fire to their tents and sailed away while others, hidden within the horse, {73} were waiting with Ulysses in the Trojan place of assembly. For the Trojans themselves had drawn the horse into their fortress, and it stood there while they sat in council round it, and were in three minds as to what they should do. Some were for breaking it up then and there; others would have it dragged to the top of the rock on which the fortress stood, and then thrown down the precipice; while yet others were for letting it remain as an offering and propitiation for the gods. And this was how they settled it in the end, for the city was doomed when it took in that horse, within which were all the bravest of the Argives waiting to bring death and destruction on the Trojans. Anon he sang how the sons of the Achaeans issued from the horse, and sacked the town, breaking out from their ambuscade. He sang how they overran the city hither and thither and ravaged it, and how Ulysses went raging like Mars along with Menelaus to the house of Deiphobus. It was there that the fight raged most furiously, nevertheless by Minerva’s help he was victorious.
天堂的吟游诗人讲述了这个故事，一些阿尔戈斯人放火烧了他们的帐篷并扬帆而去，而其他人则躲在马里，{73}与尤利西斯一起在特洛伊集会地等待。因为特洛伊人自己把木马拉进了他们的堡垒，当他们坐在木马周围商议时，木马就停在那里，三心二意地考虑应该做什么。有些人主张当场拆散它；有些人则主张当场拆散它。其他人则把它拖到堡垒所在的岩石顶部，然后扔下悬崖。还有一些人则认为将其保留下来作为对众神的祭品和赎罪祭。他们最终就是这样解决的，因为当这座城市收留那匹马时，它就注定要灭亡了，其中所有最勇敢的阿尔戈斯人都在等待着给特洛伊人带来死亡和毁灭。不久之后，他唱起了亚该亚人的儿子们如何从马背上冲出来，并洗劫了这座城镇，摆脱了他们的埋伏。他唱着他们如何占领这座城市并蹂躏它，以及尤利西斯如何像火星一样与墨涅拉俄斯一起狂暴到戴福波斯的家。在那里，战斗最为激烈，但在密涅瓦的帮助下，他取得了胜利。

All this he told, but Ulysses was overcome as he heard him, and his cheeks were wet with tears. He wept as a woman weeps when she throws herself on the body of her husband who has fallen before his own city and people, fighting bravely in defence of his home and children. She screams aloud and flings her arms about him as he lies gasping for breath and dying, but her enemies beat her from behind about the back and shoulders, and carry her off into slavery, to a life of labour and sorrow, and the beauty fades from her cheeks—even so piteously did Ulysses weep, but none of those present perceived his tears except Alcinous, who was sitting near him, and could hear the sobs and sighs that he was heaving. The king, therefore, at once rose and said:
他讲述了这一切，但尤利西斯听了他的话，却被感动了，他的脸颊被泪水打湿了。他的哭泣就像一个女人扑倒在她丈夫的尸体上时哭泣一样，她的丈夫在自己的城市和人民面前倒下，为保卫自己的家园和孩子而英勇战斗。当他躺在地上，气喘吁吁、濒临死亡时，她大声尖叫，张开双臂拥抱他，但她的敌人从后面殴打她的背部和肩膀，并把她带入奴隶制，过着劳苦和悲伤的生活，美丽褪色了尤利西斯的泪水流淌在她的脸颊上——尽管如此，尤利西斯还是哭得很可怜，但除了坐在他旁边的阿尔西诺斯之外，在场的人都没有察觉到他的眼泪，他能听到他发出的抽泣和叹息。于是国王立刻起身说道：

‘Aldermen and town councillors of the Phaeacians, let Demodocus cease his song, for there are those present who do not seem to like it. From the moment that we had done supper and Demodocus began to sing, our guest has been all the time groaning and lamenting. He is evidently in great trouble, so let the bard leave off, that we may all enjoy ourselves, hosts and guest alike. This will be much more as it should be, for all these festivities, with the escort and the presents that we are making with so much good will are wholly in his honour, and any one with even a moderate amount of right feeling knows that he ought to treat a guest and a suppliant as though he were his own brother.
“市议会议员和菲亚克斯人的镇议员们，让德摩多科斯停止他的歌声吧，因为在场的人似乎不喜欢它。从我们吃完晚饭、德摩多克斯开始唱歌的那一刻起，我们的客人就一直在呻吟和哀叹。他显然遇到了大麻烦，所以让吟游诗人离开吧，这样我们无论是主人还是客人都可以尽情享受。这将是更应该的，因为所有这些庆祝活动，我们带着如此多的善意制作的护送和礼物完全是为了纪念他，任何有一点点正确感觉的人都知道他对待客人和恳求者应该像对待自己的兄弟一样。

‘Therefore, Sir, do you on your part affect no more concealment nor reserve in the matter about which I shall ask you; it will be more polite in you to give me a plain answer; tell me the name by which your father and mother over yonder used to call you, and by which you were known among your neighbours and fellow-citizens. There is no one, neither rich nor poor, who is absolutely without any name whatever, for people’s fathers and mothers give them names as soon as they are born. Tell me also your country, nation, and city, that our ships may shape their purpose accordingly and take you there. For the Phaeacians have no pilots; their vessels have no rudders as those of other nations have, but the ships themselves understand what it is that we are thinking about and want; they know all the cities and countries in the whole world, and can traverse the sea just as well even when it is covered with mist and cloud, so that there is no danger of being wrecked or coming to any harm. Still I do remember hearing my father say that Neptune was angry with us for being too easy-going in the matter of giving people escorts. He said that one of these days he should wreck a ship of ours as it was returning from having escorted some one, {74} and bury our city under a high mountain. This is what my father used to say, but whether the god will carry out his threat or no is a matter which he will decide for himself.
“因此，先生，对于我要询问您的事情，您是否不想再隐瞒或保留？你给我一个简单的回答会更有礼貌；告诉我你的父母在那边称呼你的名字，你的邻居和同胞也用这个名字来称呼你。没有一个人，无论贫富，是绝对没有名字的，因为人一出生，父母就给他们起名字。也告诉我你的国家、民族和城市，以便我们的船只可以相应地确定其目的并带你去那里。因为斐阿克人没有飞行员；他们的船只不像其他国家那样有舵，但船只本身了解我们正在思考和想要什么；他们认识世界上所有的城市和国家，即使是在雾气缭绕的海上，也能穿越大海，不存在失事或受到伤害的危险。我仍然记得听父亲说，海王星对我们在护送问题上过于随和感到生气。他说有一天他会在护送某人返回时击毁我们的一艘船，{74}并将我们的城市埋在一座高山下。这是我父亲常说的，但神是否会执行他的威胁是他自己决定的事情。

‘And now, tell me and tell me true. Where have you been wandering, and in what countries have you travelled? Tell us of the peoples themselves, and of their cities—who were hostile, savage and uncivilised, and who, on the other hand, hospitable and humane. Tell us also why you are made so unhappy on hearing about the return of the Argive Danaans from Troy. The gods arranged all this, and sent them their misfortunes in order that future generations might have something to sing about. Did you lose some brave kinsman of your wife’s when you were before Troy? a son-in-law or father-in-law—which are the nearest relations a man has outside his own flesh and blood? or was it some brave and kindly-natured comrade—for a good friend is as dear to a man as his own brother?’
‘现在，告诉我，告诉我真相。您曾到过哪些地方流浪，去过哪些国家？告诉我们这些人民本身和他们的城市——他们充满敌意、野蛮和不文明，但另一方面，他们却热情好客、人道。请告诉我们为什么您在听到阿尔吉夫·达南人从特洛伊回归时如此不高兴。诸神安排了这一切，将他们的不幸寄予他们，以便后人有可歌可泣的地方。当你在特洛伊之前，你是否失去了你妻子的一些勇敢的亲戚？女婿、岳父，什么是一个人除了血肉之外最亲近的亲属？或者是某个勇敢而善良的同志——因为一个人对一个好朋友就像他自己的兄弟一样亲爱？

BOOK IX
第九册

ULYSSES DECLARES HIMSELF AND BEGINS HIS STORY—-THE CICONS, LOTOPHAGI, AND CYCLOPES.
尤利西斯宣布了自己并开始了他的故事——西孔斯、洛托法吉和独眼巨人。

And Ulysses answered, ‘King Alcinous, it is a good thing to hear a bard with such a divine voice as this man has. There is nothing better or more delightful than when a whole people make merry together, with the guests sitting orderly to listen, while the table is loaded with bread and meats, and the cup-bearer draws wine and fills his cup for every man. This is indeed as fair a sight as a man can see. Now, however, since you are inclined to ask the story of my sorrows, and rekindle my own sad memories in respect of them, I do not know how to begin, nor yet how to continue and conclude my tale, for the hand of heaven has been laid heavily upon me.
尤利西斯回答道：“阿尔西努斯国王，能听到一位吟游诗人拥有如此神圣的声音真是一件好事。”没有什么比全家人一起欢乐，宾客们井然有序地坐着聆听，桌子上摆满了面包和肉类，酒政为每个人倒酒、斟酒的时候，没有什么比这更好、更令人愉快的了。这确实是人类所能看到的最美丽的景象。然而现在，既然你想问我的悲伤故事，并重新点燃我自己的悲伤记忆，我不知道如何开始，也不知道如何继续和结束我的故事，上天之手已经沉重地压在我身上了。

‘Firstly, then, I will tell you my name that you too may know it, and one day, if I outlive this time of sorrow, may become my guests though I live so far away from all of you. I am Ulysses son of Laertes, renowned among mankind for all manner of subtlety, so that my fame ascends to heaven. I live in Ithaca, where there is a high mountain called Neritum, covered with forests; and not far from it there is a group of islands very near to one another—Dulichium, Same, and the wooded island of Zacynthus. It lies squat on the horizon, all highest up in the sea towards the sunset, while the others lie away from it towards dawn. {75} It is a rugged island, but it breeds brave men, and my eyes know none that they better love to look upon. The goddess Calypso kept me with her in her cave, and wanted me to marry her, as did also the cunning Aeaean goddess Circe; but they could neither of them persuade me, for there is nothing dearer to a man than his own country and his parents, and however splendid a home he may have in a foreign country, if it be far from father or mother, he does not care about it. Now, however, I will tell you of the many hazardous adventures which by Jove’s will I met with on my return from Troy.
“那么，首先，我会告诉你们我的名字，以便你们也知道，有一天，如果我能活过这段悲伤的时光，尽管我住得离你们这么远，但我可能会成为我的客人。我是雷欧提斯之子尤利西斯，以各种狡猾而闻名于人类，以致我的名声上升到天堂。我住在伊萨卡，那里有一座高山，名叫尼里图姆（Neritum），山上覆盖着森林；离它不远的地方有一群彼此非常接近的岛屿——杜利奇乌姆岛、萨姆岛和树木繁茂的扎辛苏斯岛。它蹲在地平线上，在日落时分都位于海中最高处，而其他的则在黎明时分远离它。 {75}这是一座崎岖的岛屿，但它孕育了勇敢的人，我的眼睛不知道他们更喜欢看什么。女神卡吕普索把我留在她的洞穴里，并希望我嫁给她，狡猾的埃亚女神喀耳刻也是如此。但他们都无法说服我，因为对于一个人来说，没有什么比他的祖国和他的父母更珍贵的了，无论他在异国他乡拥有多么华丽的家，如果远离父亲或母亲，他也不会关心它。然而，现在我要告诉你们，在朱庇特的旨意下，我从特洛伊回来时所经历的许多危险的冒险。

‘When I had set sail thence the wind took me first to Ismarus, which is the city of the Cicons. There I sacked the town and put the people to the sword. We took their wives and also much booty, which we divided equitably amongst us, so that none might have reason to complain. I then said that we had better make off at once, but my men very foolishly would not obey me, so they staid there drinking much wine and killing great numbers of sheep and oxen on the sea shore. Meanwhile the Cicons cried out for help to other Cicons who lived inland. These were more in number, and stronger, and they were more skilled in the art of war, for they could fight, either from chariots or on foot as the occasion served; in the morning, therefore, they came as thick as leaves and bloom in summer, and the hand of heaven was against us, so that we were hard pressed. They set the battle in array near the ships, and the hosts aimed their bronze-shod spears at one another. {76} So long as the day waxed and it was still morning, we held our own against them, though they were more in number than we; but as the sun went down, towards the time when men loose their oxen, the Cicons got the better of us, and we lost half a dozen men from every ship we had; so we got away with those that were left.
“当我从那里起航时，风首先把我带到了伊斯马鲁斯，那是西孔人的城市。在那里，我洗劫了这座城镇，并用刀剑处决了人们。我们夺走了他们的妻子和许多战利品，我们将这些战利品公平地分配给我们，这样就没有人有理由抱怨。我就说还是赶紧走吧，我的人却傻乎乎的不听我的话，就呆在那里喝了很多酒，在海边杀了很多牛羊。与此同时，西肯人向居住在内陆的其他西肯人大声呼救。这些人的数量更多，力量更强，而且他们的战争艺术也更熟练，因为他们可以根据情况使用战车或步行进行战斗。因此，到了早晨，它们就如树叶般浓密，在夏天绽放，天之手就向我们作了打击，把我们压得很紧。他们在船只附近摆好阵势，大军用铜钉长矛互相瞄准。 {76}只要天亮了，还是早晨，我们就坚持自己的立场来对抗他们，尽管他们的人数比我们多；但随着太阳落山，人们开始放牛的时候，西康人占了我们的上风，我们每艘船上都损失了六人。所以我们就带走了剩下的人。

‘Thence we sailed onward with sorrow in our hearts, but glad to have escaped death though we had lost our comrades, nor did we leave till we had thrice invoked each one of the poor fellows who had perished by the hands of the Cicons. Then Jove raised the North wind against us till it blew a hurricane, so that land and sky were hidden in thick clouds, and night sprang forth out of the heavens. We let the ships run before the gale, but the force of the wind tore our sails to tatters, so we took them down for fear of shipwreck, and rowed our hardest towards the land. There we lay two days and two nights suffering much alike from toil and distress of mind, but on the morning of the third day we again raised our masts, set sail, and took our places, letting the wind and steersmen direct our ship. I should have got home at that time unharmed had not the North wind and the currents been against me as I was doubling Cape Malea, and set me off my course hard by the island of Cythera.
“我们怀着悲伤继续前行，但很高兴虽然我们失去了战友，但我们逃脱了死亡，直到我们三次向那些死于西孔人之手的可怜人求救之后我们才离开。然后，朱庇特向我们吹起了北风，刮起了飓风，大地和天空都被厚厚的云层遮住了，夜幕从天而降。我们让船在大风中行驶，但风把我们的帆撕成了碎片，所以我们担心船会失事，所以把它们拉下来，然后竭尽全力地划向陆地。我们在那里躺了两天两夜，同样遭受着辛劳和精神上的痛苦，但在第三天早上，我们再次升起桅杆，起航，就位，让风和舵手指引我们的船。如果不是我在绕行马里亚角时北风和洋流对我不利，并让我艰难地驶向塞西拉岛，我当时应该可以毫发无伤地回到家。

‘I was driven thence by foul winds for a space of nine days upon the sea, but on the tenth day we reached the land of the Lotus-eaters, who live on a food that comes from a kind of flower. Here we landed to take in fresh water, and our crews got their mid-day meal on the shore near the ships. When they had eaten and drunk I sent two of my company to see what manner of men the people of the place might be, and they had a third man under them. They started at once, and went about among the Lotus-eaters, who did them no hurt, but gave them to eat of the lotus, which was so delicious that those who ate of it left off caring about home, and did not even want to go back and say what had happened to them, but were for staying and munching lotus {77} with the Lotus-eaters without thinking further of their return; nevertheless, though they wept bitterly I forced them back to the ships and made them fast under the benches. Then I told the rest to go on board at once, lest any of them should taste of the lotus and leave off wanting to get home, so they took their places and smote the grey sea with their oars.
“我被恶风吹到海上九天，但第十天我们到达了食莲者之地，他们以一种花为食。我们在这里登陆吸取淡水，我们的船员在靠近船只的岸边享用午餐。他们吃饱喝足后，我派了两个人去看看这个地方的人是什么样的人，他们手下还有第三个人。他们立刻起身，到了食莲人中间，食莲人不但没有伤害他们，还给他们吃莲子，味道鲜美，吃完的人都不顾家了，也不想要了。回去告诉他们发生了什么事，但我们只是留下来和食莲者一起嚼莲{77}，而不用进一步考虑他们的归来；尽管如此，尽管他们痛哭流涕，我还是把他们强行带回了船上，并把他们绑在了长凳下。然后我叫其余的人赶紧上船，免得他们尝到了莲花的味道而不想回家，于是他们各就各位，用桨拍打着灰色的大海。

‘We sailed hence, always in much distress, till we came to the land of the lawless and inhuman Cyclopes. Now the Cyclopes neither plant nor plough, but trust in providence, and live on such wheat, barley, and grapes as grow wild without any kind of tillage, and their wild grapes yield them wine as the sun and the rain may grow them. They have no laws nor assemblies of the people, but live in caves on the tops of high mountains; each is lord and master in his family, and they take no account of their neighbours.
“我们从这里起航，总是处于极大的痛苦之中，直到我们来到了无法无天、惨无人道的独眼巨人的土地。现在，独眼巨人既不种植也不犁地，而是相信天意，靠小麦、大麦和葡萄为生，这些小麦、大麦和葡萄都是野生的，无需任何耕作，他们的野生葡萄可以在阳光和雨水的照射下产出葡萄酒。他们没有法律，也没有人民议会，而是住在高山之巅的洞穴里。每个人都是家里的主人，他们不考虑邻居。

‘Now off their harbour there lies a wooded and fertile island not quite close to the land of the Cyclopes, but still not far. It is over-run with wild goats, that breed there in great numbers and are never disturbed by foot of man; for sportsmen—who as a rule will suffer so much hardship in forest or among mountain precipices—do not go there, nor yet again is it ever ploughed or fed down, but it lies a wilderness untilled and unsown from year to year, and has no living thing upon it but only goats. For the Cyclopes have no ships, nor yet shipwrights who could make ships for them; they cannot therefore go from city to city, or sail over the sea to one another’s country as people who have ships can do; if they had had these they would have colonised the island, {78} for it is a very good one, and would yield everything in due season. There are meadows that in some places come right down to the sea shore, well watered and full of luscious grass; grapes would do there excellently; there is level land for ploughing, and it would always yield heavily at harvest time, for the soil is deep. There is a good harbour where no cables are wanted, nor yet anchors, nor need a ship be moored, but all one has to do is to beach one’s vessel and stay there till the wind becomes fair for putting out to sea again. At the head of the harbour there is a spring of clear water coming out of a cave, and there are poplars growing all round it.
现在，在他们的港口附近有一座树木繁茂、肥沃的岛屿，离独眼巨人的土地不太近，但仍然不远。这里到处都是野山羊，它们在那里大量繁殖，从未受到人类脚步的干扰。对于运动员来说——他们通常会在森林或山崖中遭受如此多的苦难——不要去那里，那里也不再被犁过或被喂食，但它是一片年复一年未耕种和未播种的荒野，并且上面没有生物，只有山羊。因为独眼巨人没有船只，也没有可以为他们制造船只的造船师。因此，他们不能从一个城市到另一个城市，也不能像有船的人那样漂洋过海到彼此的国家；如果他们拥有这些，他们就会在这个岛上殖民，{78}因为这是一个非常好的岛屿，并且会在适当的时候产生一切。有些地方的草地一直延伸到海岸，水源充足，长满了甘美的青草。葡萄在那里会表现得非常好；有平坦的土地可以耕种，收获的时候总是丰收，因为土层深厚。有一个好的港湾，不需要缆绳，不需要锚，不需要停泊船只，只要把船靠岸，待到风大了，就可以再次出海了。港头有泉水从洞中涌出，周围长满了杨树。

‘Here we entered, but so dark was the night that some god must have brought us in, for there was nothing whatever to be seen. A thick mist hung all round our ships; {79} the moon was hidden behind a mass of clouds so that no one could have seen the island if he had looked for it, nor were there any breakers to tell us we were close in shore before we found ourselves upon the land itself; when, however, we had beached the ships, we took down the sails, went ashore and camped upon the beach till daybreak.
“我们进入这里，但夜色如此漆黑，肯定是某个神把我们带进来的，因为什么也看不见。我们的船周围笼罩着浓浓的雾气； {79} 月亮隐藏在一大团云层后面，因此，如果有人寻找它，就没有人能看到该岛，也没有任何海浪告诉我们，在我们发现自己到达陆地之前，我们已经靠近海岸了；然而，当我们把船靠岸后，我们就放下帆，上岸，在海滩上扎营直到天亮。

‘When the child of morning, rosy-fingered Dawn appeared, we admired the island and wandered all over it, while the nymphs Jove’s daughters roused the wild goats that we might get some meat for our dinner. On this we fetched our spears and bows and arrows from the ships, and dividing ourselves into three bands began to shoot the goats. Heaven sent us excellent sport; I had twelve ships with me, and each ship got nine goats, while my own ship had ten; thus through the livelong day to the going down of the sun we ate and drank our fill, and we had plenty of wine left, for each one of us had taken many jars full when we sacked the city of the Cicons, and this had not yet run out. While we were feasting we kept turning our eyes towards the land of the Cyclopes, which was hard by, and saw the smoke of their stubble fires. We could almost fancy we heard their voices and the bleating of their sheep and goats, but when the sun went down and it came on dark, we camped down upon the beach, and next morning I called a council.
“当清晨的孩子、玫瑰色手指的黎明出现时，我们欣赏着这座岛屿，并在岛上漫步，而仙女朱庇特的女儿们则唤醒了野山羊，以便我们可以得到一些肉作为晚餐。于是我们从船上取来长矛、弓箭，分成三队开始射杀山羊。上天赐予我们出色的运动；我有十二艘船，每艘船有九只山羊，而我自己的船有十只；就这样，从这一天到太阳落山，我们吃饱喝足，还剩下很多酒，因为当我们洗劫西康城时，我们每个人都拿了很多罐子，而这并没有带来什么好处。还没用完。当我们享受盛宴的时候，我们一直把目光转向不远处的独眼巨人之地，看到他们的秸秆火冒出浓烟。我们几乎可以想象自己听到了他们的声音以及绵羊和山羊的咩咩叫声，但是当太阳下山，天色黑下来时，我们在海滩上扎营，第二天早上我召集了一个委员会。

‘‘Stay here, my brave fellows,’ said I, ‘all the rest of you, while I go with my ship and exploit these people myself: I want to see if they are uncivilised savages, or a hospitable and humane race.’
“我勇敢的伙伴们，留在这儿，”我说，“你们其余的人，我会带着我的船去亲自剥削这些人：我想看看他们是不开化的野蛮人，还是热情好客、人道的种族。”

‘I went on board, bidding my men to do so also and loose the hawsers; so they took their places and smote the grey sea with their oars. When we got to the land, which was not far, there, on the face of a cliff near the sea, we saw a great cave overhung with laurels. It was a station for a great many sheep and goats, and outside there was a large yard, with a high wall round it made of stones built into the ground and of trees both pine and oak. This was the abode of a huge monster who was then away from home shepherding his flocks. He would have nothing to do with other people, but led the life of an outlaw. He was a horrid creature, not like a human being at all, but resembling rather some crag that stands out boldly against the sky on the top of a high mountain.
“我上了船，吩咐我的手下也这样做，并松开缆索；于是他们各就各位，用桨击打灰色的大海。当我们到达不远的陆地时，在靠近大海的悬崖面上，我们看到一个巨大的洞穴，上面挂满了月桂树。这是一个容纳大量绵羊和山羊的站，外面有一个大院子，院子周围有一堵高墙，是用石头砌成的，还有松树和橡树。这是一个巨大怪物的住所，当时他正在离家牧羊。他不愿与其他人有任何来往，却过着亡命之徒的生活。他是一个可怕的生物，根本不像一个人，而更像是高山之巅，在天空的衬托下赫然耸立的一块峭壁。

‘I told my men to draw the ship ashore, and stay where they were, all but the twelve best among them, who were to go along with myself. I also took a goatskin of sweet black wine which had been given me by Maron, son of Euanthes, who was priest of Apollo the patron god of Ismarus, and lived within the wooded precincts of the temple. When we were sacking the city we respected him, and spared his life, as also his wife and child; so he made me some presents of great value—seven talents of fine gold, and a bowl of silver, with twelve jars of sweet wine, unblended, and of the most exquisite flavour. Not a man nor maid in the house knew about it, but only himself, his wife, and one housekeeper: when he drank it he mixed twenty parts of water to one of wine, and yet the fragrance from the mixing-bowl was so exquisite that it was impossible to refrain from drinking. I filled a large skin with this wine, and took a wallet full of provisions with me, for my mind misgave me that I might have to deal with some savage who would be of great strength, and would respect neither right nor law.
“我告诉我的人把船拖上岸，留在原地，除了他们中最好的十二个人，他们要和我一起去。我还拿了一块山羊皮甜黑酒，这是尤安西斯的儿子马龙给我的，马龙是伊斯马鲁斯守护神阿波罗的祭司，住在寺庙的树木繁茂的区域内。当我们洗劫这座城市时，我们尊重他，饶了他的命，也饶了他的妻子和孩子的命。于是他给我准备了一些很贵重的礼物——七他连得的精金，一碗银子，还有十二罐未调和的、味道最美妙的甜酒。屋里没有一个男人和婢女知道这件事，只有他自己、他的妻子和一个管家知道：他喝的时候，把二十份水和一份酒调和，而搅拌碗里的香味却是那么美妙。无法不喝酒。我装满了一大皮酒，还带了一个装满食物的钱包，因为我心里担心我可能不得不面对一些力量强大、既不尊重权利也不尊重法律的野蛮人。

‘We soon reached his cave, but he was out shepherding, so we went inside and took stock of all that we could see. His cheese-racks were loaded with cheeses, and he had more lambs and kids than his pens could hold. They were kept in separate flocks; first there were the hoggets, then the oldest of the younger lambs and lastly the very young ones {80} all kept apart from one another; as for his dairy, all the vessels, bowls, and milk pails into which he milked, were swimming with whey. When they saw all this, my men begged me to let them first steal some cheeses, and make off with them to the ship; they would then return, drive down the lambs and kids, put them on board and sail away with them. It would have been indeed better if we had done so but I would not listen to them, for I wanted to see the owner himself, in the hope that he might give me a present. When, however, we saw him my poor men found him ill to deal with.
“我们很快就到达了他的洞穴，但他正在外面牧羊，所以我们进去盘点了我们能看到的所有东西。他的奶酪架上装满了奶酪，他养的羔羊和小山羊的数量也超出了他的围栏的容纳能力。它们被分成不同的羊群。首先是小羊羔，然后是最年长的小羔羊，最后是非常小的羔羊{80}，所有这些都彼此分开；至于他的奶制品，他挤奶的所有容器、碗和牛奶桶都沾满了乳清。当他们看到这一切时，我的手下恳求我让他们先偷一些奶酪，然后带着他们逃到船上。然后他们会回来，赶走羔羊和小孩子，把它们放在船上，然后带着它们扬帆远航。如果我们这样做确实更好，但我不听他们的，因为我想见见主人本人，希望他能给我一份礼物。然而，当我们看到他时，我可怜的人发现他很难对付。

‘We lit a fire, offered some of the cheeses in sacrifice, ate others of them, and then sat waiting till the Cyclops should come in with his sheep. When he came, he brought in with him a huge load of dry firewood to light the fire for his supper, and this he flung with such a noise on to the floor of his cave that we hid ourselves for fear at the far end of the cavern. Meanwhile he drove all the ewes inside, as well as the she-goats that he was going to milk, leaving the males, both rams and he-goats, outside in the yards. Then he rolled a huge stone to the mouth of the cave—so huge that two and twenty strong four-wheeled waggons would not be enough to draw it from its place against the doorway. When he had so done he sat down and milked his ewes and goats, all in due course, and then let each of them have her own young. He curdled half the milk and set it aside in wicker strainers, but the other half he poured into bowls that he might drink it for his supper. When he had got through with all his work, he lit the fire, and then caught sight of us, whereon he said:
“我们生了火，献上一些奶酪作为祭品，吃掉了其他奶酪，然后坐下来等待独眼巨人带着他的羊进来。当他来的时候，他带来了一大堆干柴火来为他的晚饭生火，他把它扔到他洞穴的地板上，发出很大的声音，我们害怕地躲在洞穴的尽头。洞穴。与此同时，他把所有的母羊和他要挤奶的母山羊都赶了进去，把公羊、公羊和公山羊留在外面的院子里。然后他把一块巨石滚到了洞口——巨石太大了，两辆或二十辆坚固的四轮马车都不足以把它从靠门口的地方拉出来。当他这样做完后，他坐下来，在适当的时候给他的母羊和山羊挤奶，然后让它们每人都有自己的孩子。他把一半的牛奶凝结起来，放在柳条过滤器里，另一半倒进碗里，以便当晚饭喝。当他完成所有的工作后，他点燃了火，然后看到了我们，他说道：

‘‘Strangers, who are you? Where do sail from? Are you traders, or do you sail the sea as rovers, with your hands against every man, and every man’s hand against you?’
「陌生人，你们是谁？从哪里启航？你们是商人，还是像流浪者一样在海上航行，你们的手与每个人对抗，每个人的手也与你们对抗？

‘We were frightened out of our senses by his loud voice and monstrous form, but I managed to say, ‘We are Achaeans on our way home from Troy, but by the will of Jove, and stress of weather, we have been driven far out of our course. We are the people of Agamemnon, son of Atreus, who has won infinite renown throughout the whole world, by sacking so great a city and killing so many people. We therefore humbly pray you to show us some hospitality, and otherwise make us such presents as visitors may reasonably expect. May your excellency fear the wrath of heaven, for we are your suppliants, and Jove takes all respectable travellers under his protection, for he is the avenger of all suppliants and foreigners in distress.’
“我们被他响亮的声音和可怕的体形吓坏了，但我设法说，‘我们是从特洛伊回家的路上的亚该亚人，但由于朱庇特的意志和天气的压力，我们已经被赶到了很远的地方。超出我们的课程范围。我们是阿特柔斯之子阿伽门农的子民，他因洗劫如此伟大的城市并杀害如此众多的人民而在全世界赢得了无限的声誉。因此，我们恳请您给予我们一些款待，或者为我们提供访客合理期望的礼物。愿阁下敬畏上天的愤怒，因为我们是您的恳求者，而朱庇特将所有受人尊敬的旅行者置于他的保护之下，因为他是所有恳求者和遇险外国人的复仇者。

‘To this he gave me but a pitiless answer, ‘Stranger,’ said he, ‘you are a fool, or else you know nothing of this country. Talk to me, indeed, about fearing the gods or shunning their anger? We Cyclopes do not care about Jove or any of your blessed gods, for we are ever so much stronger than they. I shall not spare either yourself or your companions out of any regard for Jove, unless I am in the humour for doing so. And now tell me where you made your ship fast when you came on shore. Was it round the point, or is she lying straight off the land?’
“对此，他给了我一个无情的回答，‘陌生人，’他说，‘你是个傻瓜，否则你对这个国家一无所知。确实，跟我谈谈敬畏诸神还是回避他们的愤怒？我们独眼巨人并不关心朱庇特或任何你们受祝福的神，因为我们比他们强大得多。我不会出于对朱庇特的尊重而饶恕你或你的同伴，除非我有心情这样做。现在告诉我，当你上岸时，你把船固定在哪里。这是关键，还是她直接躺在地上？

‘He said this to draw me out, but I was too cunning to be caught in that way, so I answered with a lie; ‘Neptune,’ said I, ‘sent my ship on to the rocks at the far end of your country, and wrecked it. We were driven on to them from the open sea, but I and those who are with me escaped the jaws of death.’
‘他这么说是为了引诱我出去，但我太狡猾了，不会被这样抓住，所以我用谎言回答了； “海王星，”我说，“让我的船撞到了你们国家另一端的岩石上，并导致了它的失事。我们是从公海被赶到他们那里的，但我和那些和我在一起的人却逃脱了死亡之口。

‘The cruel wretch vouchsafed me not one word of answer, but with a sudden clutch he gripped up two of my men at once and dashed them down upon the ground as though they had been puppies. Their brains were shed upon the ground, and the earth was wet with their blood. Then he tore them limb from limb and supped upon them. He gobbled them up like a lion in the wilderness, flesh, bones, marrow, and entrails, without leaving anything uneaten. As for us, we wept and lifted up our hands to heaven on seeing such a horrid sight, for we did not know what else to do; but when the Cyclops had filled his huge paunch, and had washed down his meal of human flesh with a drink of neat milk, he stretched himself full length upon the ground among his sheep, and went to sleep. I was at first inclined to seize my sword, draw it, and drive it into his vitals, but I reflected that if I did we should all certainly be lost, for we should never be able to shift the stone which the monster had put in front of the door. So we stayed sobbing and sighing where we were till morning came.
“这个残忍的家伙没有给我一个字的回答，但他突然一抓，一下子抓住了我的两个人，把他们按倒在地上，就像他们是小狗一样。他们的脑浆掉落在地上，大地被他们的血浸湿了。然后他把它们撕成碎片，然后吃掉它们。他像旷野里的狮子一样，把他们的肉、骨头、骨髓和内脏都吃掉了，没有留下任何东西。至于我们，看到如此可怕的景象，我们流泪了，举起双手向天，因为我们不知道还能做什么。但是，当独眼巨人吃饱了他的大肚子，喝完人肉大餐，喝了一杯纯净的牛奶后，他就在羊群中间的地上舒展身体，睡着了。起初我想抓住我的剑，拔出它，将它刺入他的要害，但我想，如果我这样做，我们肯定会迷失方向，因为我们永远无法移动怪物放入的石头。门前。于是我们就在原地哭泣、叹息，直到天亮。

‘When the child of morning, rosy-fingered dawn, appeared, he again lit his fire, milked his goats and ewes, all quite rightly, and then let each have her own young one; as soon as he had got through with all his work, he clutched up two more of my men, and began eating them for his morning’s meal. Presently, with the utmost ease, he rolled the stone away from the door and drove out his sheep, but he at once put it back again—as easily as though he were merely clapping the lid on to a quiver full of arrows. As soon as he had done so he shouted, and cried ‘Shoo, shoo,’ after his sheep to drive them on to the mountain; so I was left to scheme some way of taking my revenge and covering myself with glory.
“当早晨的孩子，玫瑰色的黎明出现时，他再次点燃火，给山羊和母羊挤奶，一切都很正确，然后让每个人都有自己的孩子;当他完成所有的工作后，他又抓起我的两个人，开始把他们当早餐吃。不久，他轻而易举地把门上的石头滚开，赶出了他的羊，但他立刻又把它放了回去——就像他只是把盖子盖在装满箭的箭袋上一样轻松。他一做完，就大喊“咻，咻”，追着他的羊，把它们赶到山上。所以我只能想办法报仇并为自己披上荣耀。

‘In the end I deemed it would be the best plan to do as follows: The Cyclops had a great club which was lying near one of the sheep pens; it was of green olive wood, and he had cut it intending to use it for a staff as soon as it should be dry. It was so huge that we could only compare it to the mast of a twenty-oared merchant vessel of large burden, and able to venture out into open sea. I went up to this club and cut off about six feet of it; I then gave this piece to the men and told them to fine it evenly off at one end, which they proceeded to do, and lastly I brought it to a point myself, charring the end in the fire to make it harder. When I had done this I hid it under dung, which was lying about all over the cave, and told the men to cast lots which of them should venture along with myself to lift it and bore it into the monster’s eye while he was asleep. The lot fell upon the very four whom I should have chosen, and I myself made five. In the evening the wretch came back from shepherding, and drove his flocks into the cave—this time driving them all inside, and not leaving any in the yards; I suppose some fancy must have taken him, or a god must have prompted him to do so. As soon as he had put the stone back to its place against the door, he sat down, milked his ewes and his goats all quite rightly, and then let each have her own young one; when he had got through with all this work, he gripped up two more of my men, and made his supper off them. So I went up to him with an ivy-wood bowl of black wine in my hands:
“最后，我认为最好的计划如下：独眼巨人有一根很棒的棍棒，位于一个羊圈附近；它是用青橄榄木做的，他把它砍下来，打算等它干了就用它来做手杖。它是如此之大，以至于我们只能将它与一艘二十桨商船的桅杆进行比较，该商船的负载很大，能够冒险进入公海。我走到这根棍子前，把它砍掉了大约六英尺；然后我把这块东西交给了那些人，并告诉他们把它的一端均匀地削掉，他们继续这样做，最后我自己把它带到一个点，在火中烧焦末端以使其变得更难。当我做完这件事后，我把它藏在遍布洞穴的粪便下面，并告诉人们进行抽签，谁应该和我一起冒险把它举起来，趁怪物睡着时把它放进眼睛里。抽签落在了我应该选择的四个人身上，而我自己则抽中了五个。晚上，这个可怜虫放牧回来，把他的羊群赶进了山洞——这一次把它们都赶了进去，没有在院子里留下任何东西。我想他一定是受到了某种幻想，或者一定是上帝促使他这样做的。他一把石头放回靠门的位置，就坐下来，按部就班地给母羊和山羊挤奶，然后让每只羊都有自己的小山羊。当他完成所有这些工作后，他又抓起我的两个人，用他们做晚饭。于是我走到他面前，手里端着一碗常春藤木的黑葡萄酒：

‘‘Look here, Cyclops,’ said I, you have been eating a great deal of man’s flesh, so take this and drink some wine, that you may see what kind of liquor we had on board my ship. I was bringing it to you as a drink-offering, in the hope that you would take compassion upon me and further me on my way home, whereas all you do is to go on ramping and raving most intolerably. You ought to be ashamed of yourself; how can you expect people to come see you any more if you treat them in this way?’
“看这里，独眼巨人，”我说，你吃了很多人的肉，所以拿着这个喝点酒，这样你就可以看看我们船上喝的是什么样的酒。我把它作为奠祭带给你，希望你能怜悯我，并在我回家的路上继续我，而你所做的只是继续疯狂和令人难以忍受的胡言乱语。你应该为自己感到羞耻；如果你这样对待他们，你怎么能指望人们再来见你呢？

‘He then took the cup and drank. He was so delighted with the taste of the wine that he begged me for another bowl full. ‘Be so kind,’ he said, ‘as to give me some more, and tell me your name at once. I want to make you a present that you will be glad to have. We have wine even in this country, for our soil grows grapes and the sun ripens them, but this drinks like Nectar and Ambrosia all in one.’
’然后他拿起杯子喝了下去。他对酒的味道非常满意，请求我再来一碗。 “请多多指教，”他说，“再给我一些，并立即告诉我你的名字。”我想给你一份你会很高兴拥有的礼物。即使在这个国家，我们也有葡萄酒，因为我们的土壤种植葡萄，阳光使它们成熟，但这种饮料就像花蜜和仙草合二为一。

‘I then gave him some more; three times did I fill the bowl for him, and three times did he drain it without thought or heed; then, when I saw that the wine had got into his head, I said to him as plausibly as I could: ‘Cyclops, you ask my name and I will tell it you; give me, therefore, the present you promised me; my name is Noman; this is what my father and mother and my friends have always called me.’
“然后我又给了他一些；我三次给他盛碗，他三次不假思索地把碗倒掉；然后，当我看到酒已经进入他的头脑时，我尽可能振振有词地对他说：“独眼巨人，你问我的名字，我会告诉你；”因此，请把你答应给我的礼物给我；我的名字是诺曼；这是我的父母和我的朋友们一直这么称呼我的。”

‘But the cruel wretch said, ‘Then I will eat all Noman’s comrades before Noman himself, and will keep Noman for the last. This is the present that I will make him.’
‘但是这个残忍的恶棍说：‘那么我会先吃掉诺曼的所有战友，然后再吃掉诺曼自己，并把诺曼留到最后。这是我要给他做的礼物。

‘As he spoke he reeled, and fell sprawling face upwards on the ground. His great neck hung heavily backwards and a deep sleep took hold upon him. Presently he turned sick, and threw up both wine and the gobbets of human flesh on which he had been gorging, for he was very drunk. Then I thrust the beam of wood far into the embers to heat it, and encouraged my men lest any of them should turn faint-hearted. When the wood, green though it was, was about to blaze, I drew it out of the fire glowing with heat, and my men gathered round me, for heaven had filled their hearts with courage. We drove the sharp end of the beam into the monster’s eye, and bearing upon it with all my weight I kept turning it round and round as though I were boring a hole in a ship’s plank with an auger, which two men with a wheel and strap can keep on turning as long as they choose. Even thus did we bore the red hot beam into his eye, till the boiling blood bubbled all over it as we worked it round and round, so that the steam from the burning eyeball scalded his eyelids and eyebrows, and the roots of the eye sputtered in the fire. As a blacksmith plunges an axe or hatchet into cold water to temper it—for it is this that gives strength to the iron—and it makes a great hiss as he does so, even thus did the Cyclops’ eye hiss round the beam of olive wood, and his hideous yells made the cave ring again. We ran away in a fright, but he plucked the beam all besmirched with gore from his eye, and hurled it from him in a frenzy of rage and pain, shouting as he did so to the other Cyclopes who lived on the bleak headlands near him; so they gathered from all quarters round his cave when they heard him crying, and asked what was the matter with him.
当他说话时，他摇摇晃晃，脸朝上倒在地上。他的粗脖子重重地向后仰着，陷入了沉睡。不久他就病了，把酒和他狼吞虎咽的人肉都吐了出来，因为他喝得很醉。然后我把木梁深深地插入余烬中加热，并鼓励我的手下，以免他们变得胆怯。当木头虽然是绿色的，快要燃烧时，我把它从火中拔出来，发出滚烫的光芒，我的人聚集在我周围，因为上天已经让他们的心中充满了勇气。我们把光束的尖端射入怪物的眼睛，并用我所有的重量压在它上面，我不断地转动它，就像我用螺旋钻在船板上钻一个洞一样，两个人带着一个轮子和一个螺旋钻。只要他们选择，表带就可以继续转动。就这样，我们还是把那红热的光束射进了他的眼睛里，直到眼睛里沸腾的血液在我们的周而复始地冒着泡，以致灼热的眼球冒出的蒸汽烫伤了他的眼睑和眉毛，眼根都溅起了水花。在火中。当铁匠将斧头或斧头放入冷水中进行淬火时（因为正是这样才赋予​​了铁强度），当他这样做时，它会发出巨大的嘶嘶声，即使独眼巨人的眼睛围绕橄榄梁发出嘶嘶声木头，他那可怕的叫喊声再次让山洞响起。我们惊慌失措地逃跑了，但他从眼睛里拔下沾满血迹的横梁，在愤怒和痛苦中把它从身上扔了出去，一边向住在他附近荒凉海岬上的其他独眼巨人大声喊叫。 ;于是，当他们听到他的哭声时，他们就从四面八方聚集到他的洞穴周围，问他出了什么事。

‘‘What ails you, Polyphemus,’ said they, ‘that you make such a noise, breaking the stillness of the night, and preventing us from being able to sleep? Surely no man is carrying off your sheep? Surely no man is trying to kill you either by fraud or by force?’
“波吕斐摩斯，你怎么了？你发出这么大的声音，打破了夜晚的宁静，让我们无法入睡？肯定没有人偷走你的羊吧？肯定没有人想通过欺诈或武力杀死你吧？

‘But Polyphemus shouted to them from inside the cave, ‘Noman is killing me by fraud; no man is killing me by force.’
“但是波吕斐摩斯在洞里对他们喊道：‘没有人用欺诈手段杀死我；没有人用武力杀死我。”

‘‘Then,’ said they, ‘if no man is attacking you, you must be ill; when Jove makes people ill, there is no help for it, and you had better pray to your father Neptune.’
“那么，”他们说，“如果没有人攻击你，你一定是病了；当朱庇特让人生病时，没有任何帮助，你最好向你的父亲海王星祈祷。

‘Then they went away, and I laughed inwardly at the success of my clever stratagem, but the Cyclops, groaning and in an agony of pain, felt about with his hands till he found the stone and took it from the door; then he sat in the doorway and stretched his hands in front of it to catch anyone going out with the sheep, for he thought I might be foolish enough to attempt this.
“然后他们就走了，我在心里嘲笑我的聪明计谋的成功，但是独眼巨人在痛苦中呻吟着，用手摸索着，直到找到了那块石头，把它从门口拿了出来；然后他坐在门口，把手伸到门前，要抓住任何带着羊出去的人，因为他认为我可能会愚蠢地尝试这样做。

‘As for myself I kept on puzzling to think how I could best save my own life and those of my companions; I schemed and schemed, as one who knows that his life depends upon it, for the danger was very great. In the end I deemed that this plan would be the best; the male sheep were well grown, and carried a heavy black fleece, so I bound them noiselessly in threes together, with some of the withies on which the wicked monster used to sleep. There was to be a man under the middle sheep, and the two on either side were to cover him, so that there were three sheep to each man. As for myself there was a ram finer than any of the others, so I caught hold of him by the back, esconced myself in the thick wool under his belly, and hung on patiently to his fleece, face upwards, keeping a firm hold on it all the time.
“至于我自己，我一直在思考如何才能最好地拯救自己和同伴的生命；我策划了又策划，就像一个知道自己的生命取决于此的人一样，因为危险非常大。最后我认为这个方案是最好的；公羊长得很好，身上披着​​厚重的黑色羊毛，所以我把它们三三两两地无声无息地绑在一起，还用了邪恶怪物睡觉时用的一些绳子。中间的羊下面有一个人，两边的两个人掩护他，这样每人有三只羊。至于我自己，那是一只比其他公羊都要好的公羊，所以我抓住了他的背，把自己藏在他肚子下面厚厚的羊毛里，耐心地抓住他的羊毛，脸朝上，紧紧地抓住。一直都是这样。

‘Thus, then, did we wait in great fear of mind till morning came, but when the child of morning, rosy-fingered Dawn, appeared, the male sheep hurried out to feed, while the ewes remained bleating about the pens waiting to be milked, for their udders were full to bursting; but their master in spite of all his pain felt the backs of all the sheep as they stood upright, without being sharp enough to find out that the men were underneath their bellies. As the ram was going out, last of all, heavy with its fleece and with the weight of my crafty self, Polyphemus laid hold of it and said:
于是，我们怀着极大的恐惧等待着黎明的到来，但是当早晨的孩子，玫瑰色的黎明出现时，公羊急忙出去吃草，而母羊则在羊栏里咩咩地叫着，等待着被召唤。挤奶，因为它们的乳房快要胀破了；但他们的主人尽管很痛苦，但还是感觉到了所有羊的背部，因为它们直立着，没有足够敏锐地发现这些人就在它们的肚子下面。当公羊最后走出去时，它的羊毛和我狡猾的自我的重量都很重，波吕斐摩斯抓住了它，说道：

‘‘My good ram, what is it that makes you the last to leave my cave this morning? You are not wont to let the ewes go before you, but lead the mob with a run whether to flowery mead or bubbling fountain, and are the first to come home again at night; but now you lag last of all. Is it because you know your master has lost his eye, and are sorry because that wicked Noman and his horrid crew has got him down in his drink and blinded him? But I will have his life yet. If you could understand and talk, you would tell me where the wretch is hiding, and I would dash his brains upon the ground till they flew all over the cave. I should thus have some satisfaction for the harm this no-good Noman has done me.’
“我的好公羊，是什么让你今天早上最后一个离开我的洞穴？你不习惯让母羊走在你前面，而是带领暴徒奔跑，无论是向鲜花盛开的蜂蜜酒还是冒泡的喷泉，并且是晚上第一个回家的人；但现在你落后了。是因为你知道你的主人失去了一只眼睛，并且因为那个邪恶的诺曼和他那可怕的船员把他喝醉并弄瞎了他而感到抱歉吗？但我还会拥有他的生活。如果你能听懂并且会说话，你就会告诉我那个可怜虫藏在哪里，我就会把他的脑浆砸在地上，直到它们飞得到处都是。因此，我应该对这个无良诺曼对我造成的伤害感到满意。

‘As he spoke he drove the ram outside, but when we were a little way out from the cave and yards, I first got from under the ram’s belly, and then freed my comrades; as for the sheep, which were very fat, by constantly heading them in the right direction we managed to drive them down to the ship. The crew rejoiced greatly at seeing those of us who had escaped death, but wept for the others whom the Cyclops had killed. However, I made signs to them by nodding and frowning that they were to hush their crying, and told them to get all the sheep on board at once and put out to sea; so they went aboard, took their places, and smote the grey sea with their oars. Then, when I had got as far out as my voice would reach, I began to jeer at the Cyclops.
“他一边说着，一边把公羊赶到了外面，当我们离开山洞和院子还有一段路的时候，我先从公羊的肚子下面钻了出来，然后把我的战友们救了出来；至于羊，它们很肥，我们不断地把它们引向正确的方向，终于把它们赶到了船上。船员们看到我们这些幸免于难的人感到非常高兴，但也为那些被独眼巨人杀死的人哭泣。不过，我却点点头、皱着眉头，示意他们不要哭了，并告诉他们立即把所有的羊都带上船，出海；于是他们上了船，就位，用桨击打灰色的大海。然后，当我走出声音所能到达的最远的地方时，我开始嘲笑独眼巨人。

‘‘Cyclops,’ said I, ‘you should have taken better measure of your man before eating up his comrades in your cave. You wretch, eat up your visitors in your own house? You might have known that your sin would find you out, and now Jove and the other gods have punished you.’
“独眼巨人，”我说，“在你的山洞里吃掉他的同伴之前，你应该更好地衡量一下你的人。”你这个混蛋，竟然在自己家里吃掉客人？你可能知道你的罪会找到你，现在朱庇特和其他神已经惩罚了你。

‘He got more and more furious as he heard me, so he tore the top from off a high mountain, and flung it just in front of my ship so that it was within a little of hitting the end of the rudder. {81} The sea quaked as the rock fell into it, and the wash of the wave it raised carried us back towards the mainland, and forced us towards the shore. But I snatched up a long pole and kept the ship off, making signs to my men by nodding my head, that they must row for their lives, whereon they laid out with a will. When we had got twice as far as we were before, I was for jeering at the Cyclops again, but the men begged and prayed of me to hold my tongue.
“当他听到我的声音时，他变得越来越愤怒，所以他从一座高山上撕下了山顶，并将其扔到了我的船前面，这样它就撞到了船舵的末端。 {81}当岩石落入大海时，大海震动了，它所升起的波浪的冲刷将我们带回大陆，迫使我们走向海岸。但我抓起一根长竿，把船挡在一边，并用点头向我的手下做出手势，示意他们必须划船保命，他们在上面摆出了意志。当我们的距离是之前的两倍时，我再次嘲笑独眼巨人，但人们恳求并祈祷我闭嘴。

‘‘Do not,’ they exclaimed, ‘be mad enough to provoke this savage creature further; he has thrown one rock at us already which drove us back again to the mainland, and we made sure it had been the death of us; if he had then heard any further sound of voices he would have pounded our heads and our ship’s timbers into a jelly with the rugged rocks he would have heaved at us, for he can throw them a long way.’
“不要，”他们喊道，“不要疯狂地进一步激怒这个野蛮的生物；他已经向我们扔了一块石头，把我们赶回了大陆，我们确信那是我们的死亡；如果他再听到任何声音，他就会用崎岖的岩石向我们扔来，把我们的头和船的木材敲成果冻，因为他可以把它们扔得很远。

‘But I would not listen to them, and shouted out to him in my rage, ‘Cyclops, if any one asks you who it was that put your eye out and spoiled your beauty, say it was the valiant warrior Ulysses, son of Laertes, who lives in Ithaca.’
但我不听他们的，愤怒地对他喊道：“独眼巨人，如果有人问你是谁弄瞎了你的眼睛，破坏了你的美丽，就说是雷欧提斯之子，英勇的战士尤利西斯。” ，谁住在伊萨卡岛。

‘On this he groaned, and cried out, ‘Alas, alas, then the old prophecy about me is coming true. There was a prophet here, at one time, a man both brave and of great stature, Telemus son of Eurymus, who was an excellent seer, and did all the prophesying for the Cyclopes till he grew old; he told me that all this would happen to me some day, and said I should lose my sight by the hand of Ulysses. I have been all along expecting some one of imposing presence and superhuman strength, whereas he turns out to be a little insignificant weakling, who has managed to blind my eye by taking advantage of me in my drink; come here, then, Ulysses, that I may make you presents to show my hospitality, and urge Neptune to help you forward on your journey—for Neptune and I are father and son. He, if he so will, shall heal me, which no one else neither god nor man can do.’
” 对此他呻吟着，大声喊道：“唉，唉，那么关于我的古老预言就要实现了。这里曾经有一位先知，一个既勇敢又身材高大的人，他是欧律摩斯的儿子泰勒姆斯，他是一位出色的预言家，一直为独眼巨人做所有的预言，直到他年老。他告诉我，有一天这一切都会发生在我身上，并说我应该被尤利西斯之手失去视力。我一直期待着一个气势磅礴、力量超人的人，结果发现他只是一个弱小的弱者，在我的酒里占了我的便宜，蒙蔽了我的眼睛；那么，尤利西斯，请到这里来，我可以给你送礼物以表达我的热情好客，并敦促海王星帮助你继续你的旅程——因为海王星和我是父子。如果他愿意的话，他一定会治愈我，这是任何人都做不到的，无论是神还是人。”

‘Then I said, ‘I wish I could be as sure of killing you outright and sending you down to the house of Hades, as I am that it will take more than Neptune to cure that eye of yours.’
“然后我说，‘我希望我能有把握彻底杀了你，把你送进冥府，就像我相信，要治愈你的那只眼睛，需要的不仅仅是海王星。’”

‘On this he lifted up his hands to the firmament of heaven and prayed, saying, ‘Hear me, great Neptune; if I am indeed your own true begotten son, grant that Ulysses may never reach his home alive; or if he must get back to his friends at last, let him do so late and in sore plight after losing all his men [let him reach his home in another man’s ship and find trouble in his house.’] {82}
”说到这里，他向天空举起双手祈祷，说道：“伟大的海王星，请听我说；如果我确实是你的亲生儿子，请允许尤利西斯永远无法活着回到他的家；或者，如果他最终必须回到朋友身边，那就让​​他在失去所有人员后，在很晚的时间和痛苦的困境中这样做[让他乘坐另一个人的船到达他的家，并在他的房子里发现麻烦。’] {82}

‘Thus did he pray, and Neptune heard his prayer. Then he picked up a rock much larger than the first, swung it aloft and hurled it with prodigious force. It fell just short of the ship, but was within a little of hitting the end of the rudder. The sea quaked as the rock fell into it, and the wash of the wave it raised drove us onwards on our way towards the shore of the island.
‘他就这样祈祷，海王星听到了他的祈祷。然后他捡起一块比第一块大得多的石头，将其高高挥起，用惊人的力量扔了出去。它离船不远，但距离舵末端只有一点点的距离。当岩石落入海中时，大海开始震动，海浪的冲刷驱使我们继续向岛的海岸前进。

‘When at last we got to the island where we had left the rest of our ships, we found our comrades lamenting us, and anxiously awaiting our return. We ran our vessel upon the sands and got out of her on to the sea shore; we also landed the Cyclops’ sheep, and divided them equitably amongst us so that none might have reason to complain. As for the ram, my companions agreed that I should have it as an extra share; so I sacrificed it on the sea shore, and burned its thigh bones to Jove, who is the lord of all. But he heeded not my sacrifice, and only thought how he might destroy both my ships and my comrades.
“当我们最终到达我们留下其余船只的岛屿时，我们发现我们的战友们正在为我们哀悼，并焦急地等待着我们的归来。我们把船驶过沙滩，然后下了船，来到了海边。我们还把独眼巨人的羊运上岸，并把它们公平地分配给我们，这样就没有人有理由抱怨。至于那只公羊，我的同伴们同意我应该额外分享它；于是我把它献在海边，把它的大腿骨烧给万神之主朱庇特。但他并没有注意到我的牺牲，只想着如何摧毁我的船只和我的战友。

‘Thus through the livelong day to the going down of the sun we feasted our fill on meat and drink, but when the sun went down and it came on dark, we camped upon the beach. When the child of morning rosy-fingered Dawn appeared, I bade my men on board and loose the hawsers. Then they took their places and smote the grey sea with their oars; so we sailed on with sorrow in our hearts, but glad to have escaped death though we had lost our comrades.
“就这样，从一整天到太阳落山，我们都吃饱喝足，但当太阳落山、天黑时，我们就在海滩上扎营。当玫瑰色手指的黎明之子出现时，我吩咐我的人上船并松开缆索。然后他们就位，用桨击打灰色的大海。于是，我们怀着悲伤继续前行，但庆幸的是，我们虽然失去了战友，但还是逃脱了死亡。

BOOK X
书X

AEOLUS, THE LAESTRYGONES, CIRCE.
风神、LAESTRYGONES、喀耳刻。

Thence we went on to the Aeolian island where lives Aeolus son of Hippotas, dear to the immortal gods. It is an island that floats (as it were) upon the sea, {83} iron bound with a wall that girds it. Now, Aeolus has six daughters and six lusty sons, so he made the sons marry the daughters, and they all live with their dear father and mother, feasting and enjoying every conceivable kind of luxury. All day long the atmosphere of the house is loaded with the savour of roasting meats till it groans again, yard and all; but by night they sleep on their well made bedsteads, each with his own wife between the blankets. These were the people among whom we had now come.
从那里我们继续前往风神岛，那里居住着河马的儿子风神，他是不朽众神所珍视的。它是一座漂浮在海上的岛屿（可以说是），{83} 铁质的周围环绕着一堵墙。现在，风神有六个女儿和六个儿子，他让儿子们娶了女儿们，他们都和亲爱的父母一起生活，吃喝玩乐，享受各种奢侈。一整天，屋里的气氛都充满了烤肉的味道，直到院子里的一切都再次发出呻吟声。但到了晚上，他们就睡在精心制作的床架上，每个人的毯子里都铺着自己的妻子。我们现在来到的就是这些人。

‘Aeolus entertained me for a whole month asking me questions all the time about Troy, the Argive fleet, and the return of the Achaeans. I told him exactly how everything had happened, and when I said I must go, and asked him to further me on my way, he made no sort of difficulty, but set about doing so at once. Moreover, he flayed me a prime ox-hide to hold the ways of the roaring winds, which he shut up in the hide as in a sack—for Jove had made him captain over the winds, and he could stir or still each one of them according to his own pleasure. He put the sack in the ship and bound the mouth so tightly with a silver thread that not even a breath of a side-wind could blow from any quarter. The West wind which was fair for us did he alone let blow as it chose; but it all came to nothing, for we were lost through our own folly.
“风神招待了我整整一个月，一直问我有关特洛伊、阿尔戈斯舰队和亚该亚人回归的问题。我把事情的经过详细地告诉了他，当我说我必须走了，并请他继续我的路时，他没有提出任何困难，而是立即开始这样做。此外，他还给我剥了一张上等的牛皮，用来挡住狂风的踪迹，他把狂风关在兽皮里，就像关在麻袋里一样——因为朱庇特让他成为了风的船长，他可以搅动或静止每一个风。他们按照他自己的喜好。他把麻袋放进船上，用银线将麻袋的口绑得严严实实，连一丝侧风都吹不进来。西风对我们来说是公平的，但他却独自随心所欲地吹；但这一切都毫无结果，因为我们因自己的愚蠢而迷失了方向。

‘Nine days and nine nights did we sail, and on the tenth day our native land showed on the horizon. We got so close in that we could see the stubble fires burning, and I, being then dead beat, fell into a light sleep, for I had never let the rudder out of my own hands, that we might get home the faster. On this the men fell to talking among themselves, and said I was bringing back gold and silver in the sack that Aeolus had given me. ‘Bless my heart,’ would one turn to his neighbour, saying, ‘how this man gets honoured and makes friends to whatever city or country he may go. See what fine prizes he is taking home from Troy, while we, who have travelled just as far as he has, come back with hands as empty as we set out with—and now Aeolus has given him ever so much more. Quick—let us see what it all is, and how much gold and silver there is in the sack he gave him.’
“我们航行了九天九夜，第十天，我们的祖国出现在地平线上。我们离得太近了，我们可以看到残茬里的火在燃烧，我当时已经筋疲力尽了，很快就睡着了，因为我从来没有把舵从自己手里放出来，这样我们就可以更快地回家。听到这里，人们开始议论起来，说我正在把风神给我的袋子里的金银带回来。 “上帝保佑我的心，”一个人会转向他的邻居说，“这个人无论去到哪个城市或国家，都会受到尊重并结交朋友。”看看他从特洛伊带回了多少精美的战利品，而我们，和他一样走了那么远的路，却空手而归——而现在，风神给了他更多。快——让我们看看这是什么东西，以及他给他的袋子里有多少金银。”

‘Thus they talked and evil counsels prevailed. They loosed the sack, whereupon the wind flew howling forth and raised a storm that carried us weeping out to sea and away from our own country. Then I awoke, and knew not whether to throw myself into the sea or to live on and make the best of it; but I bore it, covered myself up, and lay down in the ship, while the men lamented bitterly as the fierce winds bore our fleet back to the Aeolian island.
‘他们就这样谈论，邪恶的建议占了上风。他们松开了麻袋，风呼啸着，掀起了一场暴风雨，把我们带进了大海，离开了我们的祖国。然后我醒了，不知道是该跳进海里，还是继续活下去并充分利用它；但我还是忍住了，把自己裹起来，躺在船上，而船员们则痛苦地哀叹着，猛烈的风把我们的舰队带回了伊奥利亚岛。

‘When we reached it we went ashore to take in water, and dined hard by the ships. Immediately after dinner I took a herald and one of my men and went straight to the house of Aeolus, where I found him feasting with his wife and family; so we sat down as suppliants on the threshold. They were astounded when they saw us and said, ‘Ulysses, what brings you here? What god has been ill-treating you? We took great pains to further you on your way home to Ithaca, or wherever it was that you wanted to go to.’
“到达目的地后，我们就上岸取水，并在船上吃得很饱。晚饭后，我立即带着一位传令官和我的一名部下直奔风神埃俄罗斯的家，在那里我发现他正在与他的妻子和家人一起用餐。于是我们坐在门槛上祈求。他们看到我们时很惊讶，问道：‘尤利西斯，你怎么来了？到底是哪个神亏待了你呢？我们煞费苦心地帮助您在返回伊萨卡岛或您想去的任何地方的途中继续前进。

‘Thus did they speak, but I answered sorrowfully, ‘My men have undone me; they, and cruel sleep, have ruined me. My friends, mend me this mischief, for you can if you will.’
‘他们是这么说的，但我悲伤地回答说：‘我的人毁了我；它们和残酷的睡眠毁了我。我的朋友们，请帮我纠正这个恶作剧，如果你愿意的话，你就可以做到。”

‘I spoke as movingly as I could, but they said nothing, till their father answered, ‘Vilest of mankind, get you gone at once out of the island; him whom heaven hates will I in no wise help. Be off, for you come here as one abhorred of heaven.’ And with these words he sent me sorrowing from his door.
“我尽可能动人地讲述，但他们什么也没说，直到他们的父亲回答道：‘最卑鄙的人类，立即让你离开这个岛；天所恨恶的人，我决不帮助。走吧，因为你来到这里就像一个被天堂憎恶的人。’说完这句话，他把我悲伤地赶出了他的门。

‘Thence we sailed sadly on till the men were worn out with long and fruitless rowing, for there was no longer any wind to help them. Six days, night and day did we toil, and on the seventh day we reached the rocky stronghold of Lamus—Telepylus, the city of the Laestrygonians, where the shepherd who is driving in his sheep and goats [to be milked] salutes him who is driving out his flock [to feed] and this last answers the salute. In that country a man who could do without sleep might earn double wages, one as a herdsman of cattle, and another as a shepherd, for they work much the same by night as they do by day. {84}
“我们悲伤地继续航行，直到船员们因长时间划船而精疲力尽，毫无结果，因为不再有风来帮助他们。我们日以继夜地辛劳了六天，第七天，我们到达了拉穆斯的岩石要塞——莱斯特里戈尼亚人的城市特莱皮罗斯，在那里，赶着绵羊和山羊[挤奶]的牧羊人向他致敬。正在赶出他的羊群[去喂食]，这最后一个回答了敬礼。在那个国家，一个不睡觉的人可能会赚到双倍的工资，一份是牧牛人，另一份是牧羊人，因为他们晚上的工作和白天的工作差不多。 {84}

‘When we reached the harbour we found it land-locked under steep cliffs, with a narrow entrance between two headlands. My captains took all their ships inside, and made them fast close to one another, for there was never so much as a breath of wind inside, but it was always dead calm. I kept my own ship outside, and moored it to a rock at the very end of the point; then I climbed a high rock to reconnoitre, but could see no sign neither of man nor cattle, only some smoke rising from the ground. So I sent two of my company with an attendant to find out what sort of people the inhabitants were.
“当我们到达港口时，我们发现它被陆地锁在陡峭的悬崖下，两个岬角之间有一个狭窄的入口。我的船长们把他们所有的船都收了进去，让它们彼此靠得很近，因为里面从来没有一丝风，但总是死一般的平静。我把自己的船停在外面，把它停泊在海角尽头的一块岩石上。我又爬上一块高石去侦察，却不见人不见牛，只见地面冒出一些炊烟。于是我派了两个连队和一名随从去看看那里的居民是什么样的人。

‘The men when they got on shore followed a level road by which the people draw their firewood from the mountains into the town, till presently they met a young woman who had come outside to fetch water, and who was daughter to a Laestrygonian named Antiphates. She was going to the fountain Artacia from which the people bring in their water, and when my men had come close up to her, they asked her who the king of that country might be, and over what kind of people he ruled; so she directed them to her father’s house, but when they got there they found his wife to be a giantess as huge as a mountain, and they were horrified at the sight of her.
“当他们上岸时，他们沿着一条平坦的道路，人们从山上把柴火运进城里，直到不久他们遇到了一个年轻的女人，她到外面取水，她是一个名叫安提法特斯的拉斯特里戈尼亚人的女儿。 。她正要去阿塔西亚喷泉，人们从那里取水，当我的人走近她时，他们问她那个国家的国王可能是谁，以及他统治着什么样的人民；于是她带他们去了她父亲的家，但当他们到达那里时，却发现他的妻子是一位像山一样巨大的女巨人，他们看到她都惊呆了。

‘She at once called her husband Antiphates from the place of assembly, and forthwith he set about killing my men. He snatched up one of them, and began to make his dinner off him then and there, whereon the other two ran back to the ships as fast as ever they could. But Antiphates raised a hue-and-cry after them, and thousands of sturdy Laestrygonians sprang up from every quarter—ogres, not men. They threw vast rocks at us from the cliffs as though they had been mere stones, and I heard the horrid sound of the ships crunching up against one another, and the death cries of my men, as the Laestrygonians speared them like fishes and took them home to eat them. While they were thus killing my men within the harbour I drew my sword, cut the cable of my own ship, and told my men to row with all their might if they too would not fare like the rest; so they laid out for their lives, and we were thankful enough when we got into open water out of reach of the rocks they hurled at us. As for the others there was not one of them left.
“她立即从集会地点叫来她的丈夫安提法特斯，他立即开始杀害我的部下。他抓起其中一个，开始当场为他做晚饭，另外两个则以最快的速度跑回船上。但安提法特斯在他们身后大声叫喊，数以千计的强壮的拉斯特里戈尼亚人从四面八方涌了出来——是食人魔，而不是人类。他们从悬崖上向我们投掷巨大的岩石，就好像它们只是石头一样，我听到船只相互碰撞的可怕声音，以及我的士兵的临死呼喊，因为拉斯特里戈尼亚人像鱼一样用矛刺他们并抓住他们回家吃它们。当他们在港口里屠杀我的士兵时，我拔出了剑，割断了我自己船上的缆绳，并告诉我的士兵们，如果他们也不想像其他人一样，就用尽全力划船。所以他们就这样拼命保命，当我们进入开阔水域，避开他们向我们投掷的岩石时，我们感到非常感激。至于其他人，一个也没有剩下。

‘Thence we sailed sadly on, glad to have escaped death, though we had lost our comrades, and came to the Aeaean island, where Circe lives—a great and cunning goddess who is own sister to the magician Aeetes—for they are both children of the sun by Perse, who is daughter to Oceanus. We brought our ship into a safe harbour without a word, for some god guided us thither, and having landed we lay there for two days and two nights, worn out in body and mind. When the morning of the third day came I took my spear and my sword, and went away from the ship to reconnoitre, and see if I could discover signs of human handiwork, or hear the sound of voices. Climbing to the top of a high look-out I espied the smoke of Circe’s house rising upwards amid a dense forest of trees, and when I saw this I doubted whether, having seen the smoke, I would not go on at once and find out more, but in the end I deemed it best to go back to the ship, give the men their dinners, and send some of them instead of going myself.
“我们悲伤地继续航行，虽然我们失去了战友，但很高兴逃脱了死亡，来到了爱西亚岛，那里住着喀耳刻——一位伟大而狡猾的女神，她是魔术师埃厄忒斯的妹妹——因为他们都是孩子珀耳塞 (Perse) 是太阳神，珀耳塞 (Perse) 是俄刻阿诺斯 (Oceanus) 的女儿。我们一言不发地将船驶入安全港，因为有神引导我们到了那里，登陆后我们在那里躺了两天两夜，身心疲惫不堪。第三天早晨，我带着矛和剑，离开船上去侦察，看看是否能发现人类手工的痕迹，或听到声音。爬到高高的了望台的顶部，我看到喀耳刻家的烟雾在茂密的树林中升起，当我看到这一点时，我怀疑，看到烟雾后，我是否会立即继续下去，找出答案更多，但最后我认为最好回到船上，给这些人提供晚餐，并派一些人来，而不是我自己去。

‘When I had nearly got back to the ship some god took pity upon my solitude, and sent a fine antlered stag right into the middle of my path. He was coming down his pasture in the forest to drink of the river, for the heat of the sun drove him, and as he passed I struck him in the middle of the back; the bronze point of the spear went clean through him, and he lay groaning in the dust until the life went out of him. Then I set my foot upon him, drew my spear from the wound, and laid it down; I also gathered rough grass and rushes and twisted them into a fathom or so of good stout rope, with which I bound the four feet of the noble creature together; having so done I hung him round my neck and walked back to the ship leaning upon my spear, for the stag was much too big for me to be able to carry him on my shoulder, steadying him with one hand. As I threw him down in front of the ship, I called the men and spoke cheeringly man by man to each of them. ‘Look here my friends,’ said I, ‘we are not going to die so much before our time after all, and at any rate we will not starve so long as we have got something to eat and drink on board.’ On this they uncovered their heads upon the sea shore and admired the stag, for he was indeed a splendid fellow. Then, when they had feasted their eyes upon him sufficiently, they washed their hands and began to cook him for dinner.
“当我快要回到船上时，某个神怜悯我的孤独，派了一头漂亮的鹿角雄鹿到我的路径中间。他正从森林里的牧场下来喝河水，因为太阳的热量驱使着他，当他经过时，我击中了他的背部中央；青铜矛尖干净利落地贯穿了他，他躺在尘土中呻吟着，直到失去了生命。然后我踩到他身上，从伤口中拔出长矛，放下。我还收集了粗草和灯心草，把它们拧成一英寻左右的粗绳，用它把这个高贵生物的四只脚绑在一起。这样做完后，我把他挂在脖子上，靠着我的长矛走回船上，因为这头雄鹿太大了，我无法将他扛在肩上，用一只手稳住他。当我把他扔到船前时，我叫来了这些人，并与他们每个人都欢呼雀跃。 “看这里，我的朋友们，”我说，“我们毕竟不会提前死去那么多，而且无论如何，只要我们在船上有吃的和喝的，我们就不会挨饿。”他们在海边裸露头颅，欣赏这头雄鹿，因为它确实是一个出色的家伙。然后，当他们充分欣赏了他之后，他们洗了手，开始给他做饭。

‘Thus through the livelong day to the going down of the sun we stayed there eating and drinking our fill, but when the sun went down and it came on dark, we camped upon the sea shore. When the child of morning, rosy-fingered Dawn, appeared, I called a council and said, ‘My friends, we are in very great difficulties; listen therefore to me. We have no idea where the sun either sets or rises, {85} so that we do not even know East from West. I see no way out of it; nevertheless, we must try and find one. We are certainly on an island, for I went as high as I could this morning, and saw the sea reaching all round it to the horizon; it lies low, but towards the middle I saw smoke rising from out of a thick forest of trees.’
‘就这样，从一整天到太阳落山，我们都呆在那里吃饱喝足，但当太阳落山、天黑时，我们就在海边扎营。当早晨的孩子，玫瑰色手指的黎明出现时，我召集了一个委员会并说：‘我的朋友们，我们遇到了非常大的困难；因此请听我说。我们不知道太阳在哪里落下或升起，{85}所以我们甚至不知道东方和西方。我看不出有什么出路；尽管如此，我们必须努力找到一个。我们肯定是在一座岛上，因为今天早上我尽了最大的努力，看到大海从周围延伸到地平线。它地势很低，但在中间，我看到浓烟从茂密的树林中升起。

‘Their hearts sank as they heard me, for they remembered how they had been treated by the Laestrygonian Antiphates, and by the savage ogre Polyphemus. They wept bitterly in their dismay, but there was nothing to be got by crying, so I divided them into two companies and set a captain over each; I gave one company to Eurylochus, while I took command of the other myself. Then we cast lots in a helmet, and the lot fell upon Eurylochus; so he set out with his twenty-two men, and they wept, as also did we who were left behind.
‘当他们听到我的声音时，他们的心沉了下去，因为他们记得他们是如何被拉斯特里戈尼亚安提法特斯和野蛮的食人魔波吕斐摩斯对待的。他们伤心地哭了，但哭也无济于事，我就把他们分成两队，每队设一个队长；我把一个连交给欧律洛科斯，而我自己指挥另一连。然后我们在头盔上抽签，抽签落在了欧律洛科斯身上。于是他带着二十二个人出发了，他们都哭了，我们这些留下来的人也哭了。

‘When they reached Circe’s house they found it built of cut stones, on a site that could be seen from far, in the middle of the forest. There were wild mountain wolves and lions prowling all round it—poor bewitched creatures whom she had tamed by her enchantments and drugged into subjection. They did not attack my men, but wagged their great tails, fawned upon them, and rubbed their noses lovingly against them. {86} As hounds crowd round their master when they see him coming from dinner—for they know he will bring them something—even so did these wolves and lions with their great claws fawn upon my men, but the men were terribly frightened at seeing such strange creatures. Presently they reached the gates of the goddess’s house, and as they stood there they could hear Circe within, singing most beautifully as she worked at her loom, making a web so fine, so soft, and of such dazzling colours as no one but a goddess could weave. On this Polites, whom I valued and trusted more than any other of my men, said, ‘There is some one inside working at a loom and singing most beautifully; the whole place resounds with it, let us call her and see whether she is woman or goddess.’
“当他们到达喀耳刻的房子时，他们发现它是用切割的石头建造的，位于森林中央的一个从远处可以看到的地方。野生的山狼和狮子在它周围徘徊——这些可怜的被施了魔法的生物，​​被她的魔法驯服了，并被麻醉了。它们并没有攻击我的手下，而是摇着大尾巴，巴结着他们，还亲切地用鼻子蹭着他们。 {86}正如猎犬在看到主人吃完晚饭时围着他们一样——因为它们知道他会给他们带来一些东西——即使这些狼和狮子也用它们的大爪子讨好我的人，但人们看到后都非常害怕如此奇怪的生物。不久，他们到达了女神之家的大门，当他们站在那里时，他们可以听到喀耳刻在里面，她在织布机上工作时唱着最动听的歌，织出的网如此精细，如此柔软，色彩如此耀眼，只有一个人才能做到这一点。女神会编织。关于这一点，波利特斯，我比我的任何其他手下都更看重和信任他，他说：“里面有人在织布机上工作，唱着最美妙的歌；整个地方都回响着，让我们打电话给她，看看她是女人还是女神。”

‘They called her and she came down, unfastened the door, and bade them enter. They, thinking no evil, followed her, all except Eurylochus, who suspected mischief and staid outside. When she had got them into her house, she set them upon benches and seats and mixed them a mess with cheese, honey, meal, and Pramnian wine, but she drugged it with wicked poisons to make them forget their homes, and when they had drunk she turned them into pigs by a stroke of her wand, and shut them up in her pig-styes. They were like pigs—head, hair, and all, and they grunted just as pigs do; but their senses were the same as before, and they remembered everything.
“他们叫了她，她下来打开门，请他们进去。他们没有恶意地跟着她，除了欧律洛科斯（Eurylochus），他怀疑有恶作剧并留在外面。当她把他们带进她的房子时，她把他们放在长凳和座位上，并把他们与奶酪、蜂蜜、粗粉和普拉姆尼安酒混合在一起，但她在里面下了邪恶的毒药，让他们忘记了自己的家。喝醉了，她用魔杖一挥，把他们变成了猪，然后把他们关在猪圈里。他们就像猪一样——头、头发等等，而且他们像猪一样发出咕噜声；但他们的感官却和之前一样，一切都记住了。

‘Thus then were they shut up squealing, and Circe threw them some acorns and beech masts such as pigs eat, but Eurylochus hurried back to tell me about the sad fate of our comrades. He was so overcome with dismay that though he tried to speak he could find no words to do so; his eyes filled with tears and he could only sob and sigh, till at last we forced his story out of him, and he told us what had happened to the others.
“就这样，他们尖叫着闭嘴了，喀耳刻扔给他们一些猪吃的橡子和山毛榉桅杆，但欧律洛科斯急忙回来告诉我我们同志的悲惨命运。他非常沮丧，尽管他想说话，却找不到合适的词来表达。他的眼睛里充满了泪水，他只能抽泣和叹息，直到最后我们强迫他说出自己的故事，他才告诉我们其他人发生了什么事。

‘‘We went,’ said he, ‘as you told us, through the forest, and in the middle of it there was a fine house built with cut stones in a place that could be seen from far. There we found a woman, or else she was a goddess, working at her loom and singing sweetly; so the men shouted to her and called her, whereon she at once came down, opened the door, and invited us in. The others did not suspect any mischief so they followed her into the house, but I staid where I was, for I thought there might be some treachery. From that moment I saw them no more, for not one of them ever came out, though I sat a long time watching for them.’
“我们去了，”他说，“正如你告诉我们的那样，穿过森林，在森林中央，从远处就能看到的地方，有一座用切割的石头建造的漂亮房子。在那里我们发现了一个女人，或者说她是一位女神，她正在织布机前工作，唱着甜美的歌。于是那些男人对她大喊大叫，叫她，她立刻下来，打开门，邀请我们进去。其他人并没有怀疑有什么恶作剧，所以他们跟着她进了房子，但我站在原地，因为我认为可能有一些背叛。从那一刻起，我就再也见不到他们了，因为尽管我坐了很长一段时间，他们都没有出来。”

‘Then I took my sword of bronze and slung it over my shoulders; I also took my bow, and told Eurylochus to come back with me and shew me the way. But he laid hold of me with both his hands and spoke piteously, saying, ‘Sir, do not force me to go with you, but let me stay here, for I know you will not bring one of them back with you, nor even return alive yourself; let us rather see if we cannot escape at any rate with the few that are left us, for we may still save our lives.’
“然后我拿起我的青铜剑，把它挂在肩上；我也拿起弓，吩咐欧律洛科斯跟我一起回来，给我带路。但他却用双手抓住我，可怜兮兮地说：“先生，请不要强迫我和你一起走，让我留在这里吧，因为我知道你不会带他们一个回来，甚至连他们都不会带回来。”你自己活着回来；让我们看看我们是否能带着剩下的少数人逃脱，因为我们仍然可以挽救我们的生命。

‘‘Stay where you are, then,’ answered I, ‘eating and drinking at the ship, but I must go, for I am most urgently bound to do so.’
“那么，就呆在原地吧，”我回答道，“在船上吃吃喝喝，但我必须走，因为我必须立即这么做。”

‘With this I left the ship and went up inland. When I got through the charmed grove, and was near the great house of the enchantress Circe, I met Mercury with his golden wand, disguised as a young man in the hey-day of his youth and beauty with the down just coming upon his face. He came up to me and took my hand within his own, saying, ‘My poor unhappy man, whither are you going over this mountain top, alone and without knowing the way? Your men are shut up in Circe’s pigstyes, like so many wild boars in their lairs. You surely do not fancy that you can set them free? I can tell you that you will never get back and will have to stay there with the rest of them. But never mind, I will protect you and get you out of your difficulty. Take this herb, which is one of great virtue, and keep it about you when you go to Circe’s house, it will be a talisman to you against every kind of mischief.
“说完我就离开了船，前往内陆。当我穿过迷人的小树林，来到女巫喀耳刻的大宅附近时，我遇到了拿着金魔杖的墨丘利，他伪装成一个正值青春美丽的全盛时期的年轻人，脸上刚刚沾满了羽绒。 。他走到我面前，握住我的手，说道：“我可怜的、不幸的人，你孤身一人，又不认识路，要翻过这座山顶去哪里呢？”你的手下被关在喀耳刻的猪圈里，就像许多野猪被关在巢穴里一样。你肯定不希望能够让他们自由吗？我可以告诉你，你永远不会回来，只能和其他人一起留在那里。但没关系，我会保护你，让你摆脱困境。带着这种药草，它具有很大的功效，当你去喀耳刻的家时，把它带在身上，它将成为你抵御各种恶作剧的护身符。

‘‘And I will tell you of all the wicked witchcraft that Circe will try to practice upon you. She will mix a mess for you to drink, and she will drug the meal with which she makes it, but she will not be able to charm you, for the virtue of the herb that I shall give you will prevent her spells from working. I will tell you all about it. When Circe strikes you with her wand, draw your sword and spring upon her as though you were going to kill her. She will then be frightened, and will desire you to go to bed with her; on this you must not point blank refuse her, for you want her to set your companions free, and to take good care also of yourself, but you must make her swear solemnly by all the blessed gods that she will plot no further mischief against you, or else when she has got you naked she will unman you and make you fit for nothing.’
“我会告诉你喀耳刻试图对你施展的所有邪恶巫术。她会混合一些乱七八糟的东西给你喝，她会在她做的饭菜里下药，但她无法迷惑你，因为我给你的药草的功效会阻止她的咒语发挥作用。我会告诉你一切。当喀耳刻用魔杖攻击你时，拔出你的剑并向她扑去，就像你要杀死她一样。然后她会感到害怕，并希望你和她一起上床；在这一点上，你不能直截了当地拒绝她，因为你希望她释放你的同伴，也照顾好你自己，但你必须让她向所有受祝福的诸神庄严发誓，她不会再图谋对你进行进一步的恶作剧。 ，否则当她让你赤身裸体时，她就会剥夺你的男子气概，让你变得一无是处。

‘As he spoke he pulled the herb out of the ground and shewed me what it was like. The root was black, while the flower was as white as milk; the gods call it Moly, and mortal men cannot uproot it, but the gods can do whatever they like.
“当他说话的时候，他把药草从地里拔了出来，给我看了它是什么样子。根是黑色的，花却是乳白色的；诸神称之为莫利，凡人无法将其连根拔起，但诸神却可以为所欲为。

‘Then Mercury went back to high Olympus passing over the wooded island; but I fared onward to the house of Circe, and my heart was clouded with care as I walked along. When I got to the gates I stood there and called the goddess, and as soon as she heard me she came down, opened the door, and asked me to come in; so I followed her—much troubled in my mind. She set me on a richly decorated seat inlaid with silver, there was a footstool also under my feet, and she mixed a mess in a golden goblet for me to drink; but she drugged it, for she meant me mischief. When she had given it me, and I had drunk it without its charming me, she struck me with her wand. ‘There now,’ she cried, ‘be off to the pigstye, and make your lair with the rest of them.’
“然后水星飞越树木繁茂的岛屿，回到高处的奥林匹斯山；但我继续朝喀耳刻的家走去，一路上我的心都被忧虑笼罩着。当我到达大门时，我站在那里呼唤女神，她一听到我的声音，就下来，打开门，请我进去。于是我跟着她——心里很不安。她把我安置在一个镶银的富丽的座位上，脚下还放着一个脚凳，并在金酒杯里调了一些东西给我喝。但她给我下了药，因为她有意恶作剧。当她把它给我时，我喝了它，但它并没有让我着迷，她用魔杖打了我。 “现在，”她喊道，“到猪圈去，和其他人一起安营扎寨。”

‘But I rushed at her with my sword drawn as though I would kill her, whereon she fell with a loud scream, clasped my knees, and spoke piteously, saying, ‘Who and whence are you? from what place and people have you come? How can it be that my drugs have no power to charm you? Never yet was any man able to stand so much as a taste of the herb I gave you; you must be spell-proof; surely you can be none other than the bold hero Ulysses, who Mercury always said would come here some day with his ship while on his way home from Troy; so be it then; sheathe your sword and let us go to bed, that we may make friends and learn to trust each other.’
‘我却拔剑冲向她，仿佛要杀死她，她惨叫一声倒在地上，抱住我的膝盖，可怜兮兮地说：‘你是谁，从哪里来的？你来自什么地方、来自什么人？我的药怎么可能没有迷惑你的力量呢？从来没有人能够忍受我给你的药草的味道。你必须不会拼写；当然，你就是勇敢的英雄尤利西斯，墨丘利总是说有一天他会在从特洛伊回家的路上带着他的船来到这里；那就这样吧；收起你的剑，让我们去睡觉吧，这样我们就可以交朋友并学会彼此信任。”

‘And I answered, ‘Circe, how can you expect me to be friendly with you when you have just been turning all my men into pigs? And now that you have got me here myself, you mean me mischief when you ask me to go to bed with you, and will unman me and make me fit for nothing. I shall certainly not consent to go to bed with you unless you will first take your solemn oath to plot no further harm against me.’
“我回答说：‘喀耳刻，你刚刚把我所有的人都变成了猪，你怎么能指望我对你友善呢？既然你自己把我弄到这里来，当你要求我和你上床时，你就是在恶作剧，会让我变得毫无男子气概，让我变得一无是处。我当然不会同意和你上床，除非你首先庄严宣誓不再图谋进一步伤害我。

‘So she swore at once as I had told her, and when she had completed her oath then I went to bed with her.
“所以她立即按照我告诉她的那样发誓，当她完成誓言后，我就和她一起上床睡觉了。

‘Meanwhile her four servants, who are her housemaids, set about their work. They are the children of the groves and fountains, and of the holy waters that run down into the sea. One of them spread a fair purple cloth over a seat, and laid a carpet underneath it. Another brought tables of silver up to the seats, and set them with baskets of gold. A third mixed some sweet wine with water in a silver bowl and put golden cups upon the tables, while the fourth brought in water and set it to boil in a large cauldron over a good fire which she had lighted. When the water in the cauldron was boiling, {87} she poured cold into it till it was just as I liked it, and then she set me in a bath and began washing me from the cauldron about the head and shoulders, to take the tire and stiffness out of my limbs. As soon as she had done washing me and anointing me with oil, she arrayed me in a good cloak and shirt and led me to a richly decorated seat inlaid with silver; there was a footstool also under my feet. A maid servant then brought me water in a beautiful golden ewer and poured it into a silver basin for me to wash my hands, and she drew a clean table beside me; an upper servant brought me bread and offered me many things of what there was in the house, and then Circe bade me eat, but I would not, and sat without heeding what was before me, still moody and suspicious.
“与此同时，她的四个仆人，也就是她的女仆，开始工作。他们是树林和喷泉的孩子，也是流入大海的圣水的孩子。其中一个人在座位上铺了一块浅紫色的布，下面铺了一块地毯。另一个人把银桌子搬到座位上，并在上面放上金篮子。第三个人在银碗里混合了一些甜酒和水，然后把金杯放在桌子上，第四个人则把水放在一个大锅里，在她点燃的大火上煮沸。当大锅里的水沸腾时，{87}她把冷水倒进去，直到我喜欢它，然后她把我放进浴缸里，开始从大锅里洗我的头和肩膀，以吸收我的四肢感到疲倦和僵硬。她给我洗完澡，给我抹上油后，就给我穿上了一件上好的斗篷和衬衫，领我到一个装饰华丽、镶嵌着银子的座位上。我的脚下还有一个脚凳。然后，一个女仆用一个漂亮的金壶给我端来水，倒进一个银盆里让我洗手，她在我旁边拉了一张干净的桌子。一位上层仆人给我带来了面包，并给了我房子里的许多东西，然后喀耳刻叫我吃东西，但我不肯，坐在那儿，没有注意到我面前的事情，仍然喜怒无常，多疑。

‘When Circe saw me sitting there without eating, and in great grief, she came to me and said, ‘Ulysses, why do you sit like that as though you were dumb, gnawing at your own heart, and refusing both meat and drink? Is it that you are still suspicious? You ought not to be, for I have already sworn solemnly that I will not hurt you.’
“当喀耳刻看到我坐在那里，不吃东西，非常悲伤时，她走过来对我说：‘尤利西斯，你为什么像哑巴一样坐着，啃着自己的心，不吃不喝呢？难道你还在怀疑吗？你不应该这样做，因为我已经郑重发誓我不会伤害你。

‘And I said, ‘Circe, no man with any sense of what is right can think of either eating or drinking in your house until you have set his friends free and let him see them. If you want me to eat and drink, you must free my men and bring them to me that I may see them with my own eyes.’
“我说，‘喀耳刻，任何有正义感的人都不能想到在你家里吃喝，除非你释放了他的朋友并让他看到他们。如果你想让我吃喝，你就必须释放我的人，把他们带到我这里来，让我亲眼看到他们。

‘When I had said this she went straight through the court with her wand in her hand and opened the pigstye doors. My men came out like so many prime hogs and stood looking at her, but she went about among them and anointed each with a second drug, whereon the bristles that the bad drug had given them fell off, and they became men again, younger than they were before, and much taller and better looking. They knew me at once, seized me each of them by the hand, and wept for joy till the whole house was filled with the sound of their halloa-ballooing, and Circe herself was so sorry for them that she came up to me and said, ‘Ulysses, noble son of Laertes, go back at once to the sea where you have left your ship, and first draw it on to the land. Then, hide all your ship’s gear and property in some cave, and come back here with your men.’
“当我说完这句话后，她拿着魔杖径直穿过庭院，打开了猪圈的门。我的手下像许多头猪一样出来，站着看着她，但她在他们中间走来走去，给每个人涂上第二种药物，劣质药物给他们带来的鬃毛脱落了，他们又变成了男人，比他们年轻。他们比以前高多了，也好看多了。他们立刻认出了我，抓住了我每个人的手，高兴地哭泣，直到整个房子都充满了他们的呼喊声，而喀耳刻本人也为他们感到难过，所以她走到我面前说： '尤利西斯，雷阿提斯的高贵儿子，立即返回你离开船的那片海，先把它拖上陆地。然后，把你船上的所有装备和财产藏在某个山洞里，然后和你的人一起回到这里。

‘I agreed to this, so I went back to the sea shore, and found the men at the ship weeping and wailing most piteously. When they saw me the silly blubbering fellows began frisking round me as calves break out and gambol round their mothers, when they see them coming home to be milked after they have been feeding all day, and the homestead resounds with their lowing. They seemed as glad to see me as though they had got back to their own rugged Ithaca, where they had been born and bred. ‘Sir,’ said the affectionate creatures, ‘we are as glad to see you back as though we had got safe home to Ithaca; but tell us all about the fate of our comrades.’
‘我同意了，于是我回到海边，发现船上的人都在哭泣，哀号得非常可怜。当他们看到我时，那些愚蠢的哭泣的家伙开始在我周围跳来跳去，就像小牛犊爆发出来，在他们的母亲周围嬉戏一样，当他们看到他们吃了一整天后回家挤奶时，家园里回响着他们的低吼声。他们似乎很高兴见到我，就好像他们回到了自己崎岖不平的伊萨卡岛，那里是他们出生和长大的地方。 “先生，”这些深情的生物说，“我们很高兴看到您回来，就像我们回到伊萨卡岛一样高兴；但请告诉我们我们同志的命运。”

‘I spoke comfortingly to them and said, ‘We must draw our ship on to the land, and hide the ship’s gear with all our property in some cave; then come with me all of you as fast as you can to Circe’s house, where you will find your comrades eating and drinking in the midst of great abundance.’
“我安慰他们说：‘我们必须把船拉到陆地上，把船上的设备和我们所有的财产藏在某个山洞里；然后你们大家尽快跟我一起去喀耳刻的家，在那里你们会发现你们的战友们在丰盛的食物中吃喝。

‘On this the men would have come with me at once, but Eurylochus tried to hold them back and said, ‘Alas, poor wretches that we are, what will become of us? Rush not on your ruin by going to the house of Circe, who will turn us all into pigs or wolves or lions, and we shall have to keep guard over her house. Remember how the Cyclops treated us when our comrades went inside his cave, and Ulysses with them. It was all through his sheer folly that those men lost their lives.’
“如果是这样的话，那些人会立刻跟我来，但是欧律洛科斯试图阻止他们，并说道：‘唉，我们是可怜的人，我们会变成什么样子呢？不要急于去喀耳刻的房子，因为她会把我们都变成猪、狼或狮子，我们必须看守她的房子。还记得当我们的战友进入独眼巨人的洞穴时，独眼巨人是如何对待我们的，还有尤利西斯和他们在一起。正是由于他的愚蠢，那些人才失去了生命。

‘When I heard him I was in two minds whether or no to draw the keen blade that hung by my sturdy thigh and cut his head off in spite of his being a near relation of my own; but the men interceded for him and said, ‘Sir, if it may so be, let this fellow stay here and mind the ship, but take the rest of us with you to Circe’s house.’
“当我听到他的声音时，我心里犹豫不决，是否要拔出挂在我强壮大腿上的利刃，砍下他的头，尽管他是我的近亲；但那些人为他求情，说：“先生，如果可以的话，请让这个家伙留在这里看管这艘船，但带我们其余的人去喀耳刻的家。”

‘On this we all went inland, and Eurylochus was not left behind after all, but came on too, for he was frightened by the severe reprimand that I had given him.
“我们就这样去了内陆，欧律洛科斯毕竟没有被抛在后面，他也跟了上来，因为他被我严厉的训斥吓坏了。

‘Meanwhile Circe had been seeing that the men who had been left behind were washed and anointed with olive oil; she had also given them woollen cloaks and shirts, and when we came we found them all comfortably at dinner in her house. As soon as the men saw each other face to face and knew one another, they wept for joy and cried aloud till the whole palace rang again. Thereon Circe came up to me and said, ‘Ulysses, noble son of Laertes, tell your men to leave off crying; I know how much you have all of you suffered at sea, and how ill you have fared among cruel savages on the mainland, but that is over now, so stay here, and eat and drink till you are once more as strong and hearty as you were when you left Ithaca; for at present you are weakened both in body and mind; you keep all the time thinking of the hardships you have suffered during your travels, so that you have no more cheerfulness left in you.’
“与此同时，喀耳刻一直在看着那些留下来的人被清洗并涂上橄榄油；她还给了他们羊毛斗篷和衬衫，当我们到达时，我们发现他们都在她家里舒适地吃晚饭。众人一见面，认识了，便喜极而泣，放声大哭，直响满宫。于是，喀耳刻走到我面前，说道：“尤利西斯，莱尔提斯的高贵儿子，请告诉你的士兵不要哭泣；我知道你们在海上受了多少苦，也知道你们在陆地上遭受了残酷的野蛮人的折磨，但现在一切都过去了，所以留在这儿，吃吃喝喝，直到你们再次像以前一样坚强和热情。当你离开伊萨卡时你是这样的；因为现在你的身体和精神都很虚弱；你总是想着旅途中所受的苦难，以致你不再有快乐。

‘Thus did she speak and we assented. We stayed with Circe for a whole twelvemonth feasting upon an untold quantity both of meat and wine. But when the year had passed in the waning of moons and the long days had come round, my men called me apart and said, ‘Sir, it is time you began to think about going home, if so be you are to be spared to see your house and native country at all.’
‘她这么说，我们也同意了。我们和喀耳刻待了整整十二个月，享用了无数的肉和酒。但是，当这一年在月亏月中过去，漫长的日子到来时，我的人把我叫走，说：‘先生，你是时候开始考虑回家了，如果这样的话，你就不用再回家了。看看你的房子和祖国。”

‘Thus did they speak and I assented. Thereon through the livelong day to the going down of the sun we feasted our fill on meat and wine, but when the sun went down and it came on dark the men laid themselves down to sleep in the covered cloisters. I, however, after I had got into bed with Circe, besought her by her knees, and the goddess listened to what I had got to say. ‘Circe,’ said I, ‘please to keep the promise you made me about furthering me on my homeward voyage. I want to get back and so do my men, they are always pestering me with their complaints as soon as ever your back is turned.’
‘他们这么说，我也同意了。从那一天到太阳落山，我们都吃饱了肉和酒，但当太阳落山、天黑时，人们就在有顶棚的回廊里睡觉了。然而，当我和喀耳刻上床后，我跪下恳求她，女神听了我的话。 “喀耳刻，”我说道，“请信守你对我许下的诺言，让我踏上归途。”我想回去，我的手下也想回去，只要你一转身，他们就会向我抱怨。”

‘And the goddess answered, ‘Ulysses, noble son of Laertes, you shall none of you stay here any longer if you do not want to, but there is another journey which you have got to take before you can sail homewards. You must go to the house of Hades and of dread Proserpine to consult the ghost of the blind Theban prophet Teiresias, whose reason is still unshaken. To him alone has Proserpine left his understanding even in death, but the other ghosts flit about aimlessly.’
“女神回答说：‘尤利西斯，莱尔忒斯的高贵儿子，如果你们不愿意，你们就不能再留在这里了，但是在你们可以启航回家之前，你们还必须走另一段旅程。你必须前往哈迪斯和可怕的普罗瑟平娜的殿堂，向失明的底比斯先知泰瑞西亚斯的鬼魂咨询，他的理智仍然没有动摇。普罗瑟芬死后也只对他留下了理解，但其他鬼魂却漫无目的地飞来飞去。

‘I was dismayed when I heard this. I sat up in bed and wept, and would gladly have lived no longer to see the light of the sun, but presently when I was tired of weeping and tossing myself about, I said, ‘And who shall guide me upon this voyage—for the house of Hades is a port that no ship can reach.’
‘当我听到这个消息时，我感到很沮丧。我坐在床上哭泣，很高兴能活着再见到太阳的光芒，但不久，当我厌倦了哭泣和翻来覆去时，我说：“谁能在这次航行中引导我——因为哈迪斯之家是任何船只都无法到达的港口。

‘‘You will want no guide,’ she answered; ‘raise your mast, set your white sails, sit quite still, and the North Wind will blow you there of itself. When your ship has traversed the waters of Oceanus, you will reach the fertile shore of Proserpine’s country with its groves of tall poplars and willows that shed their fruit untimely; here beach your ship upon the shore of Oceanus, and go straight on to the dark abode of Hades. You will find it near the place where the rivers Pyriphlegethon and Cocytus (which is a branch of the river Styx) flow into Acheron, and you will see a rock near it, just where the two roaring rivers run into one another.
“你不需要向导，”她回答道。 ‘举起你的桅杆，张开你的白帆，静静地坐着，北风就会把你吹到那里。当你的船穿过海神海的水域时，你将到达普罗瑟芬祖国肥沃的海岸，这里有高大的杨树和不合时宜地结果的柳树丛；在这里，将你的船搁浅在俄刻阿诺斯的海岸上，然后直接前往哈迪斯的黑暗住所。你会在Pyriphlegethon河和Cocytus河（冥河的一条支流）流入Acheron的地方附近找到它，你会在它附近看到一块岩石，就在两条咆哮的河流交汇处。

‘‘When you have reached this spot, as I now tell you, dig a trench a cubit or so in length, breadth, and depth, and pour into it as a drink-offering to all the dead, first, honey mixed with milk, then wine, and in the third place water—sprinkling white barley meal over the whole. Moreover you must offer many prayers to the poor feeble ghosts, and promise them that when you get back to Ithaca you will sacrifice a barren heifer to them, the best you have, and will load the pyre with good things. More particularly you must promise that Teiresias shall have a black sheep all to himself, the finest in all your flocks.
“当你到达这个地方时，正如我现在告诉你的那样，挖一条长、宽、深各一肘左右的沟，然后将蜂蜜和牛奶倒入其中，作为所有死者的奠祭。 ，然后是酒，第三位是水——将白大麦粉撒在整个上面。此外，你必须向可怜的、虚弱的鬼魂进行许多祈祷，并向他们保证，当你回到伊萨卡时，你会向他们牺牲一头不育的小母牛，这是你最好的，并会在柴堆上装满好东西。更具体地说，你必须向泰瑞西亚斯保证拥有一只属于他自己的害群之马，是你所有羊群中最优秀的。

‘‘When you shall have thus besought the ghosts with your prayers, offer them a ram and a black ewe, bending their heads towards Erebus; but yourself turn away from them as though you would make towards the river. On this, many dead men’s ghosts will come to you, and you must tell your men to skin the two sheep that you have just killed, and offer them as a burnt sacrifice with prayers to Hades and to Proserpine. Then draw your sword and sit there, so as to prevent any other poor ghost from coming near the spilt blood before Teiresias shall have answered your questions. The seer will presently come to you, and will tell you about your voyage—what stages you are to make, and how you are to sail the sea so as to reach your home.’
“当你用祈祷来恳求鬼魂时，给他们一只公羊和一只黑母羊，让它们的头朝向埃里波斯；但你却转身离开他们，就像你要走向河流一样。此时，许多死人的鬼魂会来到你身边，你必须告诉你的手下，剥掉你刚刚杀死的两只羊的皮，并将它们作为燔祭，并向哈迪斯和普罗瑟平娜祈祷。然后拔出你的剑并坐在那里，以防止任何其他可怜的鬼魂在泰瑞西亚斯回答你的问题之前靠近溢出的鲜血。预言家很快就会来找你，告诉你你的航程——你要经过哪些阶段，以及如何航行到你的家。

‘It was day-break by the time she had done speaking, so she dressed me in my shirt and cloak. As for herself she threw a beautiful light gossamer fabric over her shoulders, fastening it with a golden girdle round her waist, and she covered her head with a mantle. Then I went about among the men everywhere all over the house, and spoke kindly to each of them man by man: ‘You must not lie sleeping here any longer,’ said I to them, ‘we must be going, for Circe has told me all about it.’ And on this they did as I bade them.
“她说完话时天已经亮了，所以她给我穿上了衬衫和斗篷。至于她自己，她把一块美丽的轻质薄纱披在肩上，用一条金色腰带系在腰间，头上还盖着斗篷。然后我在房子各处的男人中间走来走去，逐个亲切地对他们每个人说话：“你们不能再睡在这里了，”我对他们说，“我们必须走了，因为喀耳刻告诉过他们。” ’他们按照我的吩咐做了。

‘Even so, however, I did not get them away without misadventure. We had with us a certain youth named Elpenor, not very remarkable for sense or courage, who had got drunk and was lying on the house-top away from the rest of the men, to sleep off his liquor in the cool. When he heard the noise of the men bustling about, he jumped up on a sudden and forgot all about coming down by the main staircase, so he tumbled right off the roof and broke his neck, and his soul went down to the house of Hades.
“然而，即便如此，我还是没能顺利地把他们带走。”我们身边有一个名叫埃尔皮诺的年轻人，他的理智和勇气都不是很出色，他喝醉了，躺在屋顶上，远离其他人，在凉爽的地方喝掉了酒。听到男人们熙熙攘攘的喧闹声，他猛地跳了起来，忘记了是从主楼梯下来的，直接从屋顶上摔下来，摔断了脖子，灵魂也下到了冥府。 。

‘When I had got the men together I said to them, ‘You think you are about to start home again, but Circe has explained to me that instead of this, we have got to go to the house of Hades and Proserpine to consult the ghost of the Theban prophet Teiresias.’
“当我把这些人召集在一起时，我对他们说，‘你们以为你们要再次出发回家了，但是喀耳刻向我解释说，我们必须去哈迪斯和普罗瑟芬娜的房子里咨询他们的意见。底比斯先知泰瑞西亚斯的鬼魂。

‘The men were broken-hearted as they heard me, and threw themselves on the ground groaning and tearing their hair, but they did not mend matters by crying. When we reached the sea shore, weeping and lamenting our fate, Circe brought the ram and the ewe, and we made them fast hard by the ship. She passed through the midst of us without our knowing it, for who can see the comings and goings of a god, if the god does not wish to be seen?
“那些人听到我的话心碎了，倒在地上呻吟着，撕扯着头发，但他们的哭声并没有解决问题。当我们到达海边时，哭泣着哀叹我们的命运，喀耳刻带来了公羊和母羊，我们把它们紧紧地拴在船边。她在我们不知不觉中从我们中间走过，如果神不想被人看到，谁能看到他的来去呢？

BOOK XI
第十一册

THE VISIT TO THE DEAD.
探访死者。

Then, when we had got down to the sea shore we drew our ship into the water and got her mast and sails into her; we also put the sheep on board and took our places, weeping and in great distress of mind. Circe, that great and cunning goddess, sent us a fair wind that blew dead aft and staid steadily with us keeping our sails all the time well filled; so we did whatever wanted doing to the ship’s gear and let her go as the wind and helmsman headed her. All day long her sails were full as she held her course over the sea, but when the sun went down and darkness was over all the earth, we got into the deep waters of the river Oceanus, where lie the land and city of the Cimmerians who live enshrouded in mist and darkness which the rays of the sun never pierce neither at his rising nor as he goes down again out of the heavens, but the poor wretches live in one long melancholy night. When we got there we beached the ship, took the sheep out of her, and went along by the waters of Oceanus till we came to the place of which Circe had told us. {88}
然后，当我们到达海边时，我们把船拖入水中，把桅杆和帆装进船里。我们也把羊放上船，各就各位，哭着，心里非常难过。伟大而狡猾的女神喀耳刻给我们带来了一阵顺风，顺风吹向船尾，稳定地陪伴着我们，让我们的船帆一直充满水。所以我们对船的设备做了任何想做的事，让她随风和舵手的方向而走。一整天，她都满帆航行，在海上航行，但当太阳下山，黑暗笼罩大地时，我们进入了俄刻阿诺斯河的深水区，那里是西梅里安人的土地和城市。他们生活在薄雾和黑暗之中，太阳的光芒无论是在升起时还是在从天上落下时都无法穿透，但这些可怜的人却生活在一个漫长而忧郁的夜晚。当我们到达那里时，我们把船搁浅，把羊从船上带走，然后沿着俄刻诺斯的水域前进，直到到达喀耳刻告诉我们的地方。 {88}

‘Here Perimedes and Eurylochus held the victims, while I drew my sword and dug the trench a cubit each way. I made a drink-offering to all the dead, first with honey and milk, then with wine, and thirdly with water, and I sprinkled white barley meal over the whole, praying earnestly to the poor feckless ghosts, and promising them that when I got back to Ithaca I would sacrifice a barren heifer for them, the best I had, and would load the pyre with good things. I also particularly promised that Teiresias should have a black sheep to himself, the best in all my flocks. When I had prayed sufficiently to the dead, I cut the throats of the two sheep and let the blood run into the trench, whereon the ghosts came trooping up from Erebus—brides, {89} young bachelors, old men worn out with toil, maids who had been crossed in love, and brave men who had been killed in battle, with their armour still smirched with blood; they came from every quarter and flitted round the trench with a strange kind of screaming sound that made me turn pale with fear. When I saw them coming I told the men to be quick and flay the carcasses of the two dead sheep and make burnt offerings of them, and at the same time to repeat prayers to Hades and to Proserpine; but I sat where I was with my sword drawn and would not let the poor feckless ghosts come near the blood till Teiresias should have answered my questions.
“佩里米得斯和欧律洛科斯在这里关押着受害者，而我则拔出剑，挖了一条各一肘尺的战壕。我给所有死者奠酒，首先用蜂蜜和牛奶，然后用酒，第三用水，然后我把白大麦粉撒在所有人身上，虔诚地向可怜的无能的鬼魂祈祷，并向他们保证，当我回到伊萨卡后，我会为他们牺牲一头不育的小母牛，这是我拥有的最好的，并会在柴堆上装满好东西。我还特别答应泰瑞西亚斯应该拥有一只害群之马，他是我所有羊群中最好的。当我向死者充分祈祷后，我割断了两只羊的喉咙，让血流进了战壕，在那里，鬼魂从埃里伯斯成群结队地出现——新娘，{89}年轻的单身汉，因辛劳而疲惫不堪的老人，曾在爱情中失意的少女，以及在战斗中阵亡、盔甲上仍沾满血迹的勇士；它们从四面八方涌来，绕着战壕飞来飞去，发出一种奇怪的尖叫声，吓得我脸色苍白。当我看到他们来的时候，我告诉那些人快点剥掉两只死羊的尸体，把它们献为燔祭，同时重复向哈迪斯和普罗瑟芬祈祷。但我坐在原地，拔出剑，不让这些可怜的无能的鬼魂靠近血，直到泰瑞西亚斯回答我的问题。

‘The first ghost that came was that of my comrade Elpenor, for he had not yet been laid beneath the earth. We had left his body unwaked and unburied in Circe’s house, for we had had too much else to do. I was very sorry for him, and cried when I saw him: ‘Elpenor,’ said I, ‘how did you come down here into this gloom and darkness? You have got here on foot quicker than I have with my ship.’
“第一个到来的鬼魂是我的战友埃尔皮诺的鬼魂，因为他还没有被埋入地下。我们把他的尸体留在了喀耳刻的家里，没有被唤醒，也没有被埋葬，因为我们还有太多别的事情要做。我为他感到非常难过，当我看到他时，我哭了：‘埃尔皮诺，’我说，‘你怎么来到这里，陷入这样的阴暗和黑暗之中？你步行到达这里的速度比我乘船到达这里的速度还快。

‘‘Sir,’ he answered with a groan, ‘it was all bad luck, and my own unspeakable drunkenness. I was lying asleep on the top of Circe’s house, and never thought of coming down again by the great staircase but fell right off the roof and broke my neck, so my soul came down to the house of Hades. And now I beseech you by all those whom you have left behind you, though they are not here, by your wife, by the father who brought you up when you were a child, and by Telemachus who is the one hope of your house, do what I shall now ask you. I know that when you leave this limbo you will again hold your ship for the Aeaean island. Do not go thence leaving me unwaked and unburied behind you, or I may bring heaven’s anger upon you; but burn me with whatever armour I have, build a barrow for me on the sea shore, that may tell people in days to come what a poor unlucky fellow I was, and plant over my grave the oar I used to row with when I was yet alive and with my messmates.’ And I said, ‘My poor fellow, I will do all that you have asked of me.’
“先生，”他呻吟着回答，“都是运气不好，还有我自己难以形容的醉酒。我躺在喀耳刻家的楼顶上睡着了，没想到再从大楼梯下来，结果直接从屋顶上摔下来，摔断了脖子，于是我的灵魂就落到了哈迪斯的房子里。现在我以所有你身后留下的人的名义（尽管他们不在这里）恳求你，以你的妻子，以你小时候抚养你长大的父亲，以特勒马科斯（你家唯一的希望）的名义，恳求你，做我现在要问你的事。我知道，当你离开这个困境时，你将再次坚守你的船前往爱琴海岛。不要把我留在你身后，不叫醒，不埋葬，否则我可能会招致上天的愤怒。但请用我拥有的一切盔甲烧死我，在海边为我建造一座手推车，这样以后的日子里，人们就可以告诉人们我是一个多么可怜、不幸的家伙，并把我小时候用来划船的桨放在我的坟墓上。但我还活着，和我的室友在一起。”我说，“我可怜的家伙，我会做你要求我做的一切。”

‘Thus, then, did we sit and hold sad talk with one another, I on the one side of the trench with my sword held over the blood, and the ghost of my comrade saying all this to me from the other side. Then came the ghost of my dead mother Anticlea, daughter to Autolycus. I had left her alive when I set out for Troy and was moved to tears when I saw her, but even so, for all my sorrow I would not let her come near the blood till I had asked my questions of Teiresias.
“于是，我们就这样坐下来，彼此悲伤地交谈着，我站在战壕的一侧，我的剑举在鲜血之上，而我战友的鬼魂则在另一侧对我说着这一切。然后，我死去的母亲安提克莉亚（奥托吕科斯的女儿）的鬼魂出现了。当我动身前往特洛伊时，我留下了她，当我看到她时，我感动得流下了眼泪，但即便如此，尽管我非常悲伤，我还是不会让她靠近血，直到我问了泰瑞西亚斯的问题。

‘Then came also the ghost of Theban Teiresias, with his golden sceptre in his hand. He knew me and said, ‘Ulysses, noble son of Laertes, why, poor man, have you left the light of day and come down to visit the dead in this sad place? Stand back from the trench and withdraw your sword that I may drink of the blood and answer your questions truly.’
‘然后底比斯泰瑞西亚斯的鬼魂也来了，他手里拿着金色权杖。他认识我，说道：“尤利西斯，雷欧提斯高贵的儿子，为什么，可怜的人，你离开了光明，来到这个悲伤的地方探望死者呢？”从战壕退后，拔出你的剑，这样我就可以喝血并真实地回答你的问题。

‘So I drew back, and sheathed my sword, whereon when he had drank of the blood he began with his prophecy.
‘于是我退后，收剑入鞘，当他喝完血后，他开始预言。

‘‘You want to know,’ said he, ‘about your return home, but heaven will make this hard for you. I do not think that you will escape the eye of Neptune, who still nurses his bitter grudge against you for having blinded his son. Still, after much suffering you may get home if you can restrain yourself and your companions when your ship reaches the Thrinacian island, where you will find the sheep and cattle belonging to the sun, who sees and gives ear to everything. If you leave these flocks unharmed and think of nothing but of getting home, you may yet after much hardship reach Ithaca; but if you harm them, then I forewarn you of the destruction both of your ship and of your men. Even though you may yourself escape, you will return in bad plight after losing all your men, [in another man’s ship, and you will find trouble in your house, which will be overrun by high-handed people, who are devouring your substance under the pretext of paying court and making presents to your wife.
“你想知道，”他说，“关于你回家的事，但上天会让你很难做到这一点。我不认为你能逃脱海王星的眼睛，他仍然因为你弄瞎了他儿子的眼睛而对你怀恨在心。尽管如此，当你的船到达特里纳奇亚岛时，如果你能克制自己和你的同伴，在经历了许多痛苦之后，你可能会回家，在那里你会发现属于太阳的羊和牛，太阳看到并倾听一切。如果你让这些羊群安然无恙，只想着回家，那么你可能会历经千辛万苦到达伊萨卡；但如果你伤害他们，那么我预先警告你，你的船只和你的人员都会遭到毁灭。即使你自己可以逃脱，在失去所有的人后，你也会陷入困境，[在另一个人的船上，你会在你的房子里遇到麻烦，你的房子将被专横的人占领，他们正在吞噬你的财产。以向你的妻子求情和送礼物为借口。

‘‘When you get home you will take your revenge on these suitors; and after you have killed them by force or fraud in your own house, you must take a well made oar and carry it on and on, till you come to a country where the people have never heard of the sea and do not even mix salt with their food, nor do they know anything about ships, and oars that are as the wings of a ship. I will give you this certain token which cannot escape your notice. A wayfarer will meet you and will say it must be a winnowing shovel that you have got upon your shoulder; on this you must fix the oar in the ground and sacrifice a ram, a bull, and a boar to Neptune. {90} Then go home and offer hecatombs to all the gods in heaven one after the other. As for yourself, death shall come to you from the sea, and your life shall ebb away very gently when you are full of years and peace of mind, and your people shall bless you. All that I have said will come true].’ {91}
“等你回家后，你就会向这些追求者报仇；当你在自己家里用武力或欺骗手段杀死了它们之后，你必须拿着一把精良的桨，带着它一直走下去，直到你来到一个人民从未听说过大海，甚至不掺盐的国家。他们对食物一无所知，对船和船桨（就像船的翅膀）一无所知。我会给你这个无法逃脱你的注意的特定令牌。一个行人会遇见你，并会说你肩上的一定是一把簸箕；为此，你必须将桨固定在地上，并向海王星献祭一只公羊、一头公牛和一头野猪。 {90}然后回家，一一祭祀天上的诸神。至于你自己，死亡将从海上降临到你身上，当你年富力强、内心平静时，你的生命将非常温柔地消逝，你的人民会祝福你。我所说的一切都会实现]。’{91}

‘‘This,’ I answered, ‘must be as it may please heaven, but tell me and tell me and tell me true, I see my poor mother’s ghost close by us; she is sitting by the blood without saying a word, and though I am her own son she does not remember me and speak to me; tell me, Sir, how I can make her know me.’
“这，”我回答道，“一定是上天所喜悦的，但是请告诉我，告诉我，告诉我，我看到我可怜的母亲的鬼魂就在我们身边；”她坐在血边一言不发，虽然我是她的亲生儿子，但她不记得我，也不跟我说话。告诉我，先生，我怎样才能让她认识我。”

‘‘That,’ said he, ‘I can soon do. Any ghost that you let taste of the blood will talk with you like a reasonable being, but if you do not let them have any blood they will go away again.’
“那，”他说，“我很快就能做到。”任何你让其尝到血味的鬼魂都会像一个理性的存在一样与你交谈，但如果你不让他们尝到任何血，他们就会再次消失。

‘On this the ghost of Teiresias went back to the house of Hades, for his prophecyings had now been spoken, but I sat still where I was until my mother came up and tasted the blood. Then she knew me at once and spoke fondly to me, saying, ‘My son, how did you come down to this abode of darkness while you are still alive? It is a hard thing for the living to see these places, for between us and them there are great and terrible waters, and there is Oceanus, which no man can cross on foot, but he must have a good ship to take him. Are you all this time trying to find your way home from Troy, and have you never yet got back to Ithaca nor seen your wife in your own house?’
“就这样，泰瑞西亚斯的鬼魂回到了哈迪斯的家，因为他的预言现在已经被说出了，但我一动不动地坐在原地，直到我的母亲走过来尝到了血的味道。然后她立刻认出了我，并亲切地对我说道：‘我的孩子，你怎么在还活着的时候就来到了这个黑暗的住所呢？对于活着的人来说，看到这些地方是一件很难的事情，因为我们和他们之间有巨大而可怕的水域，还有俄刻阿诺斯，没有人可以步行穿过它，但他必须有一艘好船来载他。你一直在寻找从特洛伊回家的路吗？难道你还没有回到伊萨卡岛，也没有在自己家里见过你的妻子吗？

‘‘Mother,’ said I, ‘I was forced to come here to consult the ghost of the Theban prophet Teiresias. I have never yet been near the Achaean land nor set foot on my native country, and I have had nothing but one long series of misfortunes from the very first day that I set out with Agamemnon for Ilius, the land of noble steeds, to fight the Trojans. But tell me, and tell me true, in what way did you die? Did you have a long illness, or did heaven vouchsafe you a gentle easy passage to eternity? Tell me also about my father, and the son whom I left behind me, is my property still in their hands, or has some one else got hold of it, who thinks that I shall not return to claim it? Tell me again what my wife intends doing, and in what mind she is; does she live with my son and guard my estate securely, or has she made the best match she could and married again?’
“母亲，”我说，“我被迫来这里咨询底比斯先知泰瑞西亚斯的鬼魂。我从未靠近过亚该亚土地，也从未踏足过我的祖国，从我与阿伽门农出发前往伊利乌斯——高贵骏马之地作战的第一天起，我就经历了一系列的不幸。特洛伊木马。但告诉我，老实告诉我，你是怎么死的？你是长期患病，还是上天赐予你一条温和而轻松的通往永恒的通道？还告诉我，我的父亲，还有我留下的儿子，我的财产还在他们手里吗，还是被别人占了，谁以为我不会回来领取呢？再告诉我我妻子打算做什么，她的想法是什么；她是否与我的儿子住在一起并安全地守护着我的财产，或者她是否尽了最大的努力并再次结婚了？

‘My mother answered, ‘Your wife still remains in your house, but she is in great distress of mind and spends her whole time in tears both night and day. No one as yet has got possession of your fine property, and Telemachus still holds your lands undisturbed. He has to entertain largely, as of course he must, considering his position as a magistrate, {92} and how every one invites him; your father remains at his old place in the country and never goes near the town. He has no comfortable bed nor bedding; in the winter he sleeps on the floor in front of the fire with the men and goes about all in rags, but in summer, when the warm weather comes on again, he lies out in the vineyard on a bed of vine leaves thrown any how upon the ground. He grieves continually about your never having come home, and suffers more and more as he grows older. As for my own end it was in this wise: heaven did not take me swiftly and painlessly in my own house, nor was I attacked by any illness such as those that generally wear people out and kill them, but my longing to know what you were doing and the force of my affection for you—this it was that was the death of me.’ {93}
”我母亲回答说：“你的妻子还留在你家里，但她心里很苦恼，日日夜夜地以泪洗面。到目前为止，还没有人占有你的优良财产，而忒勒马科斯仍然拥有你的土地，不受干扰。他必须招待很多人，当然，考虑到他作为地方法官的地位，{92}以及每个人如何邀请他；你父亲仍然留在乡下的老地方，从不靠近城镇。他没有舒适的床，也没有被褥；冬天，他和男人们一起睡在火炉前的地板上，衣衫褴褛，但到了夏天，当温暖的天气再次到来时，他就躺在葡萄园里的一张藤叶床上，床上铺满了随手乱扔的藤叶。在地面上。他不断地为你从未回家而悲伤，并且随着年龄的增长，他的痛苦也越来越大。至于我自己的结局是这样的：上天并没有迅速而无痛地将我带回自己的家中，我也没有受到任何疾病的袭击，例如那些通常使人疲惫不堪并杀死他们的疾病，但我渴望知道你会做什么。我正在做的事情以及我对你的感情的力量——这就是我的死亡。”{93}

‘Then I tried to find some way of embracing my poor mother’s ghost. Thrice I sprang towards her and tried to clasp her in my arms, but each time she flitted from my embrace as it were a dream or phantom, and being touched to the quick I said to her, ‘Mother, why do you not stay still when I would embrace you? If we could throw our arms around one another we might find sad comfort in the sharing of our sorrows even in the house of Hades; does Proserpine want to lay a still further load of grief upon me by mocking me with a phantom only?’
“然后我试图找到某种方式来拥抱我可怜的母亲的鬼魂。我三次跳向她，试图将她抱在怀里，但每次她都像梦或幻影一样从我的怀抱中飞走，被触动的我对她说：“妈妈，你为什么不静静地呆着呢？”我什么时候才能拥抱你？如果我们能够互相拥抱，即使在地狱的殿堂里，我们也可以在分担悲伤中找到悲伤的安慰；难道普罗瑟芬只是想用幻影来嘲笑我，让我承受更多的悲伤吗？

‘‘My son,’ she answered, ‘most ill-fated of all mankind, it is not Proserpine that is beguiling you, but all people are like this when they are dead. The sinews no longer hold the flesh and bones together; these perish in the fierceness of consuming fire as soon as life has left the body, and the soul flits away as though it were a dream. Now, however, go back to the light of day as soon as you can, and note all these things that you may tell them to your wife hereafter.’
“我的孩子，”她回答道，“全人类中最不幸的，不是普罗瑟芬在欺骗你，而是所有的人死后都是这样。筋不再将肉和骨固定在一起；一旦生命离开身体，它们就会在猛烈的烈火中灭亡，灵魂就像一场梦一样飞逝。然而，现在，尽快回到阳光下，记下所有这些事情，以便以后你可以告诉你的妻子。

‘Thus did we converse, and anon Proserpine sent up the ghosts of the wives and daughters of all the most famous men. They gathered in crowds about the blood, and I considered how I might question them severally. In the end I deemed that it would be best to draw the keen blade that hung by my sturdy thigh, and keep them from all drinking the blood at once. So they came up one after the other, and each one as I questioned her told me her race and lineage.
“我们就这样交谈着，不久普罗瑟芬就把所有最著名的人物的妻子和女儿的鬼魂送了上来。他们成群结队地聚集在一起讨论血迹，我考虑着如何分别询问他们。最后我觉得最好还是拔出挂在我粗壮大腿上的利刃，不让他们一下子喝完血。所以他们一个接一个地出现，当我询问她时，每个人都告诉我她的种族和血统。

‘The first I saw was Tyro. She was daughter of Salmoneus and wife of Cretheus the son of Aeolus. {94} She fell in love with the river Enipeus who is much the most beautiful river in the whole world. Once when she was taking a walk by his side as usual, Neptune, disguised as her lover, lay with her at the mouth of the river, and a huge blue wave arched itself like a mountain over them to hide both woman and god, whereon he loosed her virgin girdle and laid her in a deep slumber. When the god had accomplished the deed of love, he took her hand in his own and said, ‘Tyro, rejoice in all good will; the embraces of the gods are not fruitless, and you will have fine twins about this time twelve months. Take great care of them. I am Neptune, so now go home, but hold your tongue and do not tell any one.’
“我第一个看到的是泰罗。她是萨尔摩纽斯（Salmoneus）的女儿，埃俄罗斯之子克雷透斯（Cretheus）的妻子。 {94} 她爱上了埃尼皮乌斯河，这是全世界最美丽的河流。有一次，当她像往常一样在他身边散步时，海王星伪装成她的情人，和她一起躺在河口，巨大的蓝色波浪像一座山一样在他们上方拱起，隐藏了女人和上帝，在河口他解开了她的处女腰带，让她陷入沉睡。当神完成了爱的事后，他握住她的手说：“蒂罗，要为一切善意而欢喜；众神的拥抱并非徒劳，大约在十二个月的时候，你将拥有一对漂亮的双胞胎。好好照顾他们。我是海王星，所以现在回家吧，但是管住你的嘴，不要告诉任何人。

‘Then he dived under the sea, and she in due course bore Pelias and Neleus, who both of them served Jove with all their might. Pelias was a great breeder of sheep and lived in Iolcus, but the other lived in Pylos. The rest of her children were by Cretheus, namely, Aeson, Pheres, and Amythaon, who was a mighty warrior and charioteer.
‘然后他潜入海底，她及时生下了珀利阿斯和涅琉斯，他们两人都竭尽全力侍奉朱庇特。珀利阿斯是一位伟大的绵羊饲养者，住在伊奥尔库斯，而另一个住在皮洛斯。她的其余孩子是克瑞透斯所生，即埃森、菲勒斯和埃米森，埃米森是一位强大的战士和战车御手。

‘Next to her I saw Antiope, daughter to Asopus, who could boast of having slept in the arms of even Jove himself, and who bore him two sons Amphion and Zethus. These founded Thebes with its seven gates, and built a wall all round it; for strong though they were they could not hold Thebes till they had walled it.
“在她旁边，我看到安提俄普，阿索普斯的女儿，她甚至可以夸口睡在朱庇特本人的怀抱里，并给他生了两个儿子安菲翁和泽图斯。他们建立了底比斯，有七个城门，并在其周围筑起了城墙。因为尽管他们很强大，但在筑起城墙之前，他们无法守住底比斯。

‘Then I saw Alcmena, the wife of Amphitryon, who also bore to Jove indomitable Hercules; and Megara who was daughter to great King Creon, and married the redoubtable son of Amphitryon.
“然后我看到了安菲特律翁的妻子阿尔克梅娜，她也为朱庇特生下了不屈不挠的赫拉克勒斯；麦加拉是伟大的克瑞翁国王的女儿，嫁给了令人敬畏的安菲特律翁之子。

‘I also saw fair Epicaste mother of king Oedipodes whose awful lot it was to marry her own son without suspecting it. He married her after having killed his father, but the gods proclaimed the whole story to the world; whereon he remained king of Thebes, in great grief for the spite the gods had borne him; but Epicaste went to the house of the mighty jailor Hades, having hanged herself for grief, and the avenging spirits haunted him as for an outraged mother—to his ruing bitterly thereafter.
“我还看到了俄狄波德斯国王的美丽的主教母亲，她的不幸命运就是在毫无怀疑的情况下嫁给了自己的儿子。他杀了父亲后娶了她，但众神向世人公布了整个故事；此后，他继续担任底比斯国王，对众神对他的恶意对待感到极度悲痛。但埃皮卡斯特因悲痛而上吊自杀，来到了强大的狱卒哈迪斯的家中，复仇的灵魂像愤怒的母亲一样纠缠着他——此后他遭受了痛苦的毁灭。

‘Then I saw Chloris, whom Neleus married for her beauty, having given priceless presents for her. She was youngest daughter to Amphion son of Iasus and king of Minyan Orchomenus, and was Queen in Pylos. She bore Nestor, Chromius, and Periclymenus, and she also bore that marvellously lovely woman Pero, who was wooed by all the country round; but Neleus would only give her to him who should raid the cattle of Iphicles from the grazing grounds of Phylace, and this was a hard task. The only man who would undertake to raid them was a certain excellent seer, {95} but the will of heaven was against him, for the rangers of the cattle caught him and put him in prison; nevertheless when a full year had passed and the same season came round again, Iphicles set him at liberty, after he had expounded all the oracles of heaven. Thus, then, was the will of Jove accomplished.
“然后我看到了克洛丽丝，涅琉斯因为她的美丽而娶了她，并给了她无价的礼物。她是伊阿苏斯之子、明扬奥尔霍梅努斯国王安菲翁最小的女儿，也是皮洛斯的王后。她生了内斯特、克罗米乌斯和佩里克利美努斯，还生了那个令人惊叹的可爱女人佩罗，受到全国各地的追捧。但涅琉斯只会把她交给从菲拉斯牧场掠夺伊菲克勒斯的牲畜的人，而这是一项艰巨的任务。唯一愿意袭击他们的人是一位出色的先知，{95}但是天意反对他，因为放牛的护林员抓住了他并将他关进监狱；然而，当整整一年过去了，同样的季节又来了，伊菲克勒斯在他解释了所有天上的神谕后，释放了他。这样一来，朱庇特的愿望就实现了。

‘And I saw Leda the wife of Tyndarus, who bore him two famous sons, Castor breaker of horses, and Pollux the mighty boxer. Both these heroes are lying under the earth, though they are still alive, for by a special dispensation of Jove, they die and come to life again, each one of them every other day throughout all time, and they have the rank of gods.
“我看到了廷达罗斯的妻子勒达，她为他生了两个著名的儿子，马术师卡斯托尔和强大的拳击手波勒克斯。这两位英雄虽然还活着，但都躺在地下，因为在朱庇特的特殊安排下，他们死而复生，他们每个人都是每隔一天复活一次，他们拥有神的地位。

‘After her I saw Iphimedeia wife of Aloeus who boasted the embrace of Neptune. She bore two sons Otus and Ephialtes, but both were short lived. They were the finest children that were ever born in this world, and the best looking, Orion only excepted; for at nine years old they were nine fathoms high, and measured nine cubits round the chest. They threatened to make war with the gods in Olympus, and tried to set Mount Ossa on the top of Mount Olympus, and Mount Pelion on the top of Ossa, that they might scale heaven itself, and they would have done it too if they had been grown up, but Apollo, son of Leto, killed both of them, before they had got so much as a sign of hair upon their cheeks or chin.
“在她之后，我看到了阿洛俄斯的妻子伊菲米狄亚，她夸耀自己拥有海王星的拥抱。她生了两个儿子奥图斯和埃菲阿尔特斯，但都很短命。他们是这个世界上出生的最优秀的孩子，而且也是最漂亮的，只有猎户座除外。九岁时，它们高九英寻，胸围九肘。他们威胁要与奥林匹斯众神开战，并试图将奥萨山建在奥林匹斯山顶上，将皮立翁山建在奥萨山顶上，这样他们就可以登上天堂，如果他们有的话，他们也会这么做的。他们已经长大了，但勒托的儿子阿波罗在他们的脸颊或下巴上还没有长出一丝头发的时候就杀了他们。

‘Then I saw Phaedra, and Procris, and fair Ariadne daughter of the magician Minos, whom Theseus was carrying off from Crete to Athens, but he did not enjoy her, for before he could do so Diana killed her in the island of Dia on account of what Bacchus had said against her.
然后我看到了菲德拉、普罗克里斯和魔法师米诺斯的美丽的阿里阿德涅的女儿，忒修斯正把她从克里特岛带到雅典，但他并不喜欢她，因为在他这样做之前，戴安娜在迪亚岛杀死了她。记述巴克斯对她所说的话。

‘I also saw Maera and Clymene and hateful Eriphyle, who sold her own husband for gold. But it would take me all night if I were to name every single one of the wives and daughters of heroes whom I saw, and it is time for me to go to bed, either on board ship with my crew, or here. As for my escort, heaven and yourselves will see to it.’
“我还看到了玛埃拉和克吕梅涅，以及可恨的埃里菲勒，她为了黄金而出卖了自己的丈夫。但如果我要说出我所见过的每一位英雄的妻子和女儿的名字，我会花上一整夜的时间，现在是我上床睡觉的时候了，要么和我的船员一起在船上，要么在这里。至于我的护送，天和你们自会安排。

Here he ended, and the guests sat all of them enthralled and speechless throughout the covered cloister. Then Arete said to them:—
他到这里就结束了，宾客们全都着迷地坐在有顶棚的回廊里，说不出话来。然后阿瑞特对他们说：

‘What do you think of this man, O Phaeacians? Is he not tall and good looking, and is he not clever? True, he is my own guest, but all of you share in the distinction. Do not be in a hurry to send him away, nor niggardly in the presents you make to one who is in such great need, for heaven has blessed all of you with great abundance.’
‘菲埃克斯人啊，你觉得这个人怎么样？难道他个子不高，长得不帅，而且不聪明吗？确实，他是我自己的客人，但你们所有人都享有同样的殊荣。不要急于送走他，也不要吝惜送给有需要的人的礼物，因为上天已经极大地祝福了你们所有人。

Then spoke the aged hero Echeneus who was one of the oldest men among them, ‘My friends,’ said he, ‘what our august queen has just said to us is both reasonable and to the purpose, therefore be persuaded by it; but the decision whether in word or deed rests ultimately with King Alcinous.’
然后，年长的英雄埃切纽斯说道，他是他们中最年长的人之一。但无论是口头上还是行动上的决定最终取决于阿尔西努斯国王。”

‘The thing shall be done,’ exclaimed Alcinous, ‘as surely as I still live and reign over the Phaeacians. Our guest is indeed very anxious to get home, still we must persuade him to remain with us until to-morrow, by which time I shall be able to get together the whole sum that I mean to give him. As regards his escort it will be a matter for you all, and mine above all others as the chief person among you.’
“事情一定会完成，”阿尔西诺斯喊道，“只要我还活着并统治着菲亚克人，这件事就一定会完成。”我们的客人确实很想回家，但我们必须说服他留在我们这里直到明天，到那时我就能凑齐我打算给他的全部金额。至于他的护送，这将是你们所有人的事情，而我是你们中的首要人物。

And Ulysses answered, ‘King Alcinous, if you were to bid me to stay here for a whole twelve months, and then speed me on my way, loaded with your noble gifts, I should obey you gladly and it would redound greatly to my advantage, for I should return fuller-handed to my own people, and should thus be more respected and beloved by all who see me when I get back to Ithaca.’
尤利西斯回答道：“阿尔西诺斯国王，如果您要我在这里待整整十二个月，然后带着您高贵的礼物加速上路，我会很乐意服从您，这会给我带来很大的好处。” ，因为我应该全力以赴地回报我自己的人民，因此当我回到伊萨卡时，所有看到我的人都应该更加尊重和爱戴我。

‘Ulysses,’ replied Alcinous, ‘not one of us who sees you has any idea that you are a charlatan or a swindler. I know there are many people going about who tell such plausible stories that it is very hard to see through them, but there is a style about your language which assures me of your good disposition. Moreover you have told the story of your own misfortunes, and those of the Argives, as though you were a practiced bard; but tell me, and tell me true, whether you saw any of the mighty heroes who went to Troy at the same time with yourself, and perished there. The evenings are still at their longest, and it is not yet bed time—go on, therefore, with your divine story, for I could stay here listening till tomorrow morning, so long as you will continue to tell us of your adventures.’
“尤利西斯，”阿尔西诺斯回答道，“我们当中没有一个看到你的人会知道你是个江湖骗子或骗子。我知道有很多人讲的故事都那么可信，很难看透，但你的语言有一种风格，这让我确信你的性格很好。此外，你还讲述了你自己和阿尔戈斯人的不幸故事，就好像你是一位熟练的吟游诗人一样。但请告诉我，老实告诉我，你是否见过与你同时前往特洛伊并死在那里的伟大英雄。夜晚仍然是最长的，而且还没有到睡觉的时间——因此，继续讲你的神圣故事吧，因为只要你继续告诉我们你的冒险经历，我就可以留在这里听到明天早上。

‘Alcinous,’ answered Ulysses, ‘there is a time for making speeches, and a time for going to bed; nevertheless, since you so desire, I will not refrain from telling you the still sadder tale of those of my comrades who did not fall fighting with the Trojans, but perished on their return, through the treachery of a wicked woman.
“阿尔西诺斯，”尤利西斯回答道，“有演讲的时间，也有睡觉的时间；不过，既然你这么想，我就忍不住告诉你我的战友们的更悲惨的故事，他们没有在与特洛伊人的战斗中倒下，但在他们返回时却因一个邪恶女人的背叛而丧生。

‘When Proserpine had dismissed the female ghosts in all directions, the ghost of Agamemnon son of Atreus came sadly up to me, surrounded by those who had perished with him in the house of Aegisthus. As soon as he had tasted the blood, he knew me, and weeping bitterly stretched out his arms towards me to embrace me; but he had no strength nor substance any more, and I too wept and pitied him as I beheld him. ‘How did you come by your death,’ said I, ‘King Agamemnon? Did Neptune raise his winds and waves against you when you were at sea, or did your enemies make an end of you on the main land when you were cattle-lifting or sheep-stealing, or while they were fighting in defence of their wives and city?’
当普罗瑟芬驱散了四面八方的女鬼后，阿特柔斯之子阿伽门农的鬼魂悲伤地来到我身边，周围都是那些和他一起在埃吉斯托斯的房子里死去的人。他一尝到血的味道，就认出了我，痛哭着向我伸出双臂拥抱我。但他已经没有力量和物质了，当我看到他时，我也哭了，可怜他。 “阿伽门农国王，你是怎么死的？”我说道。当你在海上的时候，海王星是否对你刮起狂风巨浪，或者当你在陆地上举牛偷羊时，或者当他们为保卫自己的妻子而战斗时，你的敌人是否在陆地上消灭了你？城市？'

‘‘Ulysses,’ he answered, ‘noble son of Laertes, I was not lost at sea in any storm of Neptune’s raising, nor did my foes despatch me upon the mainland, but Aegisthus and my wicked wife were the death of me between them. He asked me to his house, feasted me, and then butchered me most miserably as though I were a fat beast in a slaughter house, while all around me my comrades were slain like sheep or pigs for the wedding breakfast, or picnic, or gorgeous banquet of some great nobleman. You must have seen numbers of men killed either in a general engagement, or in single combat, but you never saw anything so truly pitiable as the way in which we fell in that cloister, with the mixing bowl and the loaded tables lying all about, and the ground reeking with our blood. I heard Priam’s daughter Cassandra scream as Clytemnestra killed her close beside me. I lay dying upon the earth with the sword in my body, and raised my hands to kill the slut of a murderess, but she slipped away from me; she would not even close my lips nor my eyes when I was dying, for there is nothing in this world so cruel and so shameless as a woman when she has fallen into such guilt as hers was. Fancy murdering her own husband! I thought I was going to be welcomed home by my children and my servants, but her abominable crime has brought disgrace on herself and all women who shall come after—even on the good ones.’
“尤利西斯，”他回答道，“莱尔提斯的高贵儿子，我并没有在海王星兴起的任何风暴中迷失在海上，我的敌人也没有把我派到大陆上，但埃吉斯托斯和我邪恶的妻子是他们之间害我的人。” 。他邀请我去他家，宴请我，然后把我残忍地宰杀，就好像我是屠宰场里的一头肥畜一样，而我周围的战友们则像羊或猪一样被宰杀，用于婚礼早餐，或野餐，或华丽的仪式。某个大贵族的宴会。你一定见过许多人在一场全面的交战中或在一场单独的战斗中被杀，但你从来没有见过比我们倒在那个回廊里更可怜的事情，搅拌碗和装满食物的桌子到处都是，地面上充满了我们的血腥味。当克吕泰涅斯特拉在我身边杀死普里阿摩斯的女儿卡桑德拉时，我听到了她的尖叫声。我躺在地上，身上插着剑，垂死挣扎，举起双手，想要杀掉那个女凶手的贱人，她却从我身边溜走；当我快要死的时候，她甚至不肯闭上我的嘴唇和眼睛，因为这个世界上没有什么比一个女人当她陷入如此内疚时如此残忍和无耻的了。竟然想谋杀自己的丈夫！我以为我会受到我的孩子和仆人的欢迎回家，但她令人发指的罪行给她自己和所有后来的妇女带来了耻辱——即使是善良的妇女。

‘And I said, ‘In truth Jove has hated the house of Atreus from first to last in the matter of their women’s counsels. See how many of us fell for Helen’s sake, and now it seems that Clytemnestra hatched mischief against you too during your absence.’
“我说，‘事实上，朱庇特从始至终都憎恨阿特柔斯家族，在她们的妇女建议问题上。看看我们中有多少人为海伦而倾心，现在看来克吕泰涅斯特拉也在你不在的时候对你进行了恶作剧。”

‘‘Be sure, therefore,’ continued Agamemnon, ‘and not be too friendly even with your own wife. Do not tell her all that you know perfectly well yourself. Tell her a part only, and keep your own counsel about the rest. Not that your wife, Ulysses, is likely to murder you, for Penelope is a very admirable woman, and has an excellent nature. We left her a young bride with an infant at her breast when we set out for Troy. This child no doubt is now grown up happily to man’s estate, {96} and he and his father will have a joyful meeting and embrace one another as it is right they should do, whereas my wicked wife did not even allow me the happiness of looking upon my son, but killed me ere I could do so. Furthermore I say—and lay my saying to your heart—do not tell people when you are bringing your ship to Ithaca, but steal a march upon them, for after all this there is no trusting women. But now tell me, and tell me true, can you give me any news of my son Orestes? Is he in Orchomenus, or at Pylos, or is he at Sparta with Menelaus—for I presume that he is still living.’
“因此，请务必，”阿伽门农继续说道，“即使对自己的妻子也不要太友好。不要告诉她你自己非常清楚的一切。只告诉她一部分，其余的保留你自己的建议。并不是说你的妻子尤利西斯可能会谋杀你，因为佩内洛普是一位非常令人钦佩的女人，并且有着优秀的本性。当我们出发前往特洛伊时，我们给她留下了一位怀里抱着婴儿的年轻新娘。毫无疑问，这个孩子现在已经在男人的庄园里幸福地长大了，{96}他和他的父亲将有一次愉快的会面，并互相拥抱，这是他们应该做的，而我邪恶的妻子甚至不允许我幸福看着我的儿子，却在我能这么做之前杀了我。此外，我说——并且把我的话放在你心里——当你把你的船开到伊萨卡时，不要告诉人们，而是偷偷向他们进军，因为毕竟没有信任的女人。但现在告诉我，实话实说，你能给我任何关于我儿子俄瑞斯忒斯的消息吗？他是在奥尔霍梅努斯，还是在皮洛斯，还是在斯巴达和墨涅拉俄斯一起——因为我推测他还活着。

‘And I said, ‘Agamemnon, why do you ask me? I do not know whether your son is alive or dead, and it is not right to talk when one does not know.’
“我说，‘阿伽门农，你为什么问我？我不知道你儿子是死是活，不知道的情况下说话是不对的。”

‘As we two sat weeping and talking thus sadly with one another the ghost of Achilles came up to us with Patroclus, Antilochus, and Ajax who was the finest and goodliest man of all the Danaans after the son of Peleus. The fleet descendant of Aeacus knew me and spoke piteously, saying, ‘Ulysses, noble son of Laertes, what deed of daring will you undertake next, that you venture down to the house of Hades among us silly dead, who are but the ghosts of them that can labour no more?’
当我们两人坐着哭泣，彼此悲伤地交谈时，阿喀琉斯的鬼魂带着帕特罗克洛斯、安提洛科斯和埃阿斯来到了我们身边，埃阿斯是继珀琉斯的儿子之后所有达纳人中最优秀、最善良的人。埃阿科斯的舰队后裔认识我，可怜兮兮地说：“尤利西斯，雷阿提斯的高贵儿子，你接下来要做什么大胆的事，你冒险到我们这些愚蠢的死者中间的哈迪斯的房子里，我们只是死者的幽灵。”那些不能再劳动的人呢？

‘And I said, ‘Achilles, son of Peleus, foremost champion of the Achaeans, I came to consult Teiresias, and see if he could advise me about my return home to Ithaca, for I have never yet been able to get near the Achaean land, nor to set foot in my own country, but have been in trouble all the time. As for you, Achilles, no one was ever yet so fortunate as you have been, nor ever will be, for you were adored by all us Argives as long as you were alive, and now that you are here you are a great prince among the dead. Do not, therefore, take it so much to heart even if you are dead.’
“我说，‘阿喀琉斯，珀琉斯的儿子，亚该亚人最重要的冠军，我来咨询泰瑞西亚斯，看看他是否能给我关于返回伊萨卡岛的建议，因为我还从未能够接近亚该亚人。也没有踏上自己的祖国，却一直陷入困境。至于你，阿喀琉斯，从来没有人像你一样幸运，也永远不会，因为只要你还活着，你就受到我们所有阿尔戈斯人的崇拜，现在你在这里，你是一位伟大的王子。死亡。因此，即使你死了，也不要太放在心上。

‘‘Say not a word,’ he answered, ‘in death’s favour; I would rather be a paid servant in a poor man’s house and be above ground than king of kings among the dead. But give me news about my son; is he gone to the wars and will he be a great soldier, or is this not so? Tell me also if you have heard anything about my father Peleus—does he still rule among the Myrmidons, or do they show him no respect throughout Hellas and Phthia now that he is old and his limbs fail him? Could I but stand by his side, in the light of day, with the same strength that I had when I killed the bravest of our foes upon the plain of Troy—could I but be as I then was and go even for a short time to my father’s house, any one who tried to do him violence or supersede him would soon rue it.’
“别说一句话，”他回答道，“以死相待；我宁愿在穷人家里当受雇的仆人，在地上，也不愿在死者中做万王之王。但请告诉我有关我儿子的消息；他是否参加过战争，他会成为一名伟大的士兵吗？或者事实并非如此？如果你听说过我父亲珀琉斯，请告诉我——他是否仍然统治着米尔米东人，还是因为他年事已高，四肢无力，整个希腊和弗提亚的人们都不尊重他？我能否在光天化日之下，以我在特洛伊平原上杀死我们最勇敢的敌人时所拥有的力量，站在他身边——我能否像当时一样，哪怕只是短暂地走一走？ “在我父亲家里，任何试图对他施暴或取代他的人很快就会后悔。”

‘‘I have heard nothing,’ I answered, ‘of Peleus, but I can tell you all about your son Neoptolemus, for I took him in my own ship from Scyros with the Achaeans. In our councils of war before Troy he was always first to speak, and his judgement was unerring. Nestor and I were the only two who could surpass him; and when it came to fighting on the plain of Troy, he would never remain with the body of his men, but would dash on far in front, foremost of them all in valour. Many a man did he kill in battle—I cannot name every single one of those whom he slew while fighting on the side of the Argives, but will only say how he killed that valiant hero Eurypylus son of Telephus, who was the handsomest man I ever saw except Memnon; many others also of the Ceteians fell around him by reason of a woman’s bribes. Moreover, when all the bravest of the Argives went inside the horse that Epeus had made, and it was left to me to settle when we should either open the door of our ambuscade, or close it, though all the other leaders and chief men among the Danaans were drying their eyes and quaking in every limb, I never once saw him turn pale nor wipe a tear from his cheek; he was all the time urging me to break out from the horse—grasping the handle of his sword and his bronze-shod spear, and breathing fury against the foe. Yet when we had sacked the city of Priam he got his handsome share of the prize money and went on board (such is the fortune of war) without a wound upon him, neither from a thrown spear nor in close combat, for the rage of Mars is a matter of great chance.’
“我没有听说过珀琉斯的事，”我回答道，“但是我可以告诉你关于你儿子涅俄普托勒摩斯的一切，因为我把他和亚该亚人一起从斯库罗斯带到了我自己的船上。在我们特洛伊之前的战争会议上，他总是第一个发言，而且他的判断是准确无误的。内斯特和我是仅有的两个能够超越他的人；当在特洛伊平原上作战时，他绝不会留在他的部下，而是冲在最前面，在他们中都是英勇的。他在战斗中杀死了很多人——我无法说出他在阿尔戈斯一方战斗时杀死的每一个人的名字，但只能说他是如何杀死泰莱福斯之子英勇英雄欧律皮洛斯的，他是我见过的最英俊的男人。除了门农以外，谁都见过；许多其他塞泰人也因女人的贿赂而倒在他身边。此外，当所有最勇敢的阿尔戈斯人都进入了埃佩乌斯制造的马时，我决定何时打开我们的伏击门或关闭它，尽管所有其他领导人和首领都在其中。达南人的眼睛都在干燥，四肢颤抖，我从来没有见过他脸色变白，也没有擦过脸颊上的泪水。他一直在催促我从马背上挣脱出来——抓住他的剑柄和铜钉长矛，向敌人喷出愤怒的气息。然而，当我们洗劫了普里阿摩斯城后，他得到了他那份可观的奖金，并登上了船（这就是战争的幸运），他身上没有受伤，无论是投掷的长矛还是近战，因为他的愤怒火星是一个巨大的机会。

‘When I had told him this, the ghost of Achilles strode off across a meadow full of asphodel, exulting over what I had said concerning the prowess of his son.
当我告诉他这件事时，阿喀琉斯的鬼魂大步穿过一片长满水仙的草地，为我所说的关于他儿子的英勇而欣喜若狂。

‘The ghosts of other dead men stood near me and told me each his own melancholy tale; but that of Ajax son of Telamon alone held aloof—still angry with me for having won the cause in our dispute about the armour of Achilles. Thetis had offered it as a prize, but the Trojan prisoners and Minerva were the judges. Would that I had never gained the day in such a contest, for it cost the life of Ajax, who was foremost of all the Danaans after the son of Peleus, alike in stature and prowess.
“其他死者的鬼魂站在我身边，向我讲述着各自的悲伤故事；但只有特拉蒙之子埃阿斯对此保持冷漠——仍然对我在我们关于阿喀琉斯的盔甲的争论中获胜而感到愤怒。忒提斯将其作为奖品，但特洛伊囚犯和密涅瓦是评委。但愿我从未在这样的比赛中获胜，因为它牺牲了埃阿斯的生命，他在身材和能力上都仅次于珀琉斯的儿子，是所有达纳人中最重要的。

‘When I saw him I tried to pacify him and said, ‘Ajax, will you not forget and forgive even in death, but must the judgement about that hateful armour still rankle with you? It cost us Argives dear enough to lose such a tower of strength as you were to us. We mourned you as much as we mourned Achilles son of Peleus himself, nor can the blame be laid on anything but on the spite which Jove bore against the Danaans, for it was this that made him counsel your destruction—come hither, therefore, bring your proud spirit into subjection, and hear what I can tell you.’
“当我看到他时，我试图安抚他并说道：‘阿贾克斯，你即使在死后也不会忘记和宽恕，但对那件可恶的盔甲的审判仍然让你心痛吗？我们阿尔戈斯人失去了像你们这样的力量之塔，这让我们付出了巨大的代价。我们哀悼你，就像我们哀悼珀琉斯的儿子阿喀琉斯本人一样，除了朱庇特对达南人的怨恨之外，不能归咎于任何事情，因为正是这一点让他建议毁灭你——所以，来这里吧，把征服你骄傲的灵魂，听听我能告诉你什么。

‘He would not answer, but turned away to Erebus and to the other ghosts; nevertheless, I should have made him talk to me in spite of his being so angry, or I should have gone on talking to him, {97} only that there were still others among the dead whom I desired to see.
“他没有回答，而是转向埃里巴斯和其他鬼魂；然而，尽管他如此生气，我还是应该让他跟我说话，或者我应该继续和他说话，{97}只是因为死者中还有其他人是我希望看到的。

‘Then I saw Minos son of Jove with his golden sceptre in his hand sitting in judgement on the dead, and the ghosts were gathered sitting and standing round him in the spacious house of Hades, to learn his sentences upon them.
‘然后我看到朱庇特之子米诺斯手里拿着金权杖，坐在对死者的审判中，而鬼魂则聚集在哈迪斯宽敞的殿堂里，坐在他周围，站着，学习他对他们的判决。

‘After him I saw huge Orion in a meadow full of asphodel driving the ghosts of the wild beasts that he had killed upon the mountains, and he had a great bronze club in his hand, unbreakable for ever and ever.
在他身后，我看到巨大的猎户座在长满水仙的草地上驱赶他在山上杀死的野兽的鬼魂，他手里拿着一根巨大的青铜棍，永远牢不可破。

‘And I saw Tityus son of Gaia stretched upon the plain and covering some nine acres of ground. Two vultures on either side of him were digging their beaks into his liver, and he kept on trying to beat them off with his hands, but could not; for he had violated Jove’s mistress Leto as she was going through Panopeus on her way to Pytho.
“我看到盖亚之子提图斯躺在平原上，占地约九英亩。他两侧的两只秃鹫正用喙啄进他的肝脏，他不断地想用手把它们赶走，但没能成功。因为他在朱庇特的情妇莱托前往皮托的途中经过帕诺佩斯时侵犯了她。

‘I saw also the dreadful fate of Tantalus, who stood in a lake that reached his chin; he was dying to quench his thirst, but could never reach the water, for whenever the poor creature stooped to drink, it dried up and vanished, so that there was nothing but dry ground—parched by the spite of heaven. There were tall trees, moreover, that shed their fruit over his head—pears, pomegranates, apples, sweet figs and juicy olives, but whenever the poor creature stretched out his hand to take some, the wind tossed the branches back again to the clouds.
“我还看到了坦塔罗斯的可怕命运，他站在深及下巴的湖中；他很想解渴，却永远够不到水，因为每当这个可怜的生物弯下腰去喝水时，水就会干涸并消失，所以除了干涸的土地之外什么也没有——因为上天的恶意而变得干燥。此外，还有高大的树木，它们的果实​​从他的头上落下——梨、石榴、苹果、甜无花果和多汁的橄榄，但每当这个可怜的生物伸出手去摘一些时，风又把树枝吹回云端。 。

‘And I saw Sisyphus at his endless task raising his prodigious stone with both his hands. With hands and feet he tried to roll it up to the top of the hill, but always, just before he could roll it over on to the other side, its weight would be too much for him, and the pitiless stone {98} would come thundering down again on to the plain. Then he would begin trying to push it up hill again, and the sweat ran off him and the steam rose after him.
“我看到西西弗斯在无尽的任务中用双手举起他的巨大石头。他试图用手脚把它滚到山顶，但总是在他能把它滚到另一边之前，它的重量对他来说太大了，无情的石头{98}会再次雷鸣般地降临到平原上。然后他又开始尝试把它推上山，汗水从他身上流走，蒸汽在他身后升腾。

‘After him I saw mighty Hercules, but it was his phantom only, for he is feasting ever with the immortal gods, and has lovely Hebe to wife, who is daughter of Jove and Juno. The ghosts were screaming round him like scared birds flying all whithers. He looked black as night with his bare bow in his hands and his arrow on the string, glaring around as though ever on the point of taking aim. About his breast there was a wondrous golden belt adorned in the most marvellous fashion with bears, wild boars, and lions with gleaming eyes; there was also war, battle, and death. The man who made that belt, do what he might, would never be able to make another like it. Hercules knew me at once when he saw me, and spoke piteously, saying, ‘My poor Ulysses, noble son of Laertes, are you too leading the same sorry kind of life that I did when I was above ground? I was son of Jove, but I went through an infinity of suffering, for I became bondsman to one who was far beneath me—a low fellow who set me all manner of labours. He once sent me here to fetch the hell-hound—for he did not think he could find anything harder for me than this, but I got the hound out of Hades and brought him to him, for Mercury and Minerva helped me.’
在他之后，我看到了强大的赫拉克勒斯，但这只是他的幻影，因为他永远与不朽的众神一起盛宴，并且有可爱的赫柏为妻，她是朱庇特和朱诺的女​​儿。鬼魂在他周围尖叫，就像受惊的小鸟到处乱飞。他看上去漆黑如夜，手里拿着光秃秃的弓，箭挂在弦上，怒视着四周，仿佛随时准备瞄准。他的胸前有一条奇妙的金腰带，上面装饰着熊、野猪和眼睛闪闪发亮的狮子，图案非常奇妙。还有战争、战斗和死亡。制造那条腰带的人，尽他所能，永远无法制造出另一条类似的腰带。赫拉克勒斯一看到我就认出了我，他可怜兮兮地说道：“我可怜的尤利西斯，雷厄尔忒斯的高贵儿子，你是否也过着和我在地上时一样可怜的生活呢？”我是朱庇特的儿子，但我经历了无限的痛苦，因为我成为了一个远低于我的人的奴隶——一个低贱的人，他给我安排了各种各样的劳动。有一次他派我来这里接地狱猎犬——因为他认为对我来说找不到比这更难的事情了，但我把猎犬从地狱里救了出来，并把他带到了他身边，因为墨丘利和密涅瓦帮助了我。

‘On this Hercules went down again into the house of Hades, but I stayed where I was in case some other of the mighty dead should come to me. And I should have seen still other of them that are gone before, whom I would fain have seen—Theseus and Pirithous—glorious children of the gods, but so many thousands of ghosts came round me and uttered such appalling cries, that I was panic stricken lest Proserpine should send up from the house of Hades the head of that awful monster Gorgon. On this I hastened back to my ship and ordered my men to go on board at once and loose the hawsers; so they embarked and took their places, whereon the ship went down the stream of the river Oceanus. We had to row at first, but presently a fair wind sprang up.
“就在这时，赫拉克勒斯再次下到哈迪斯的殿堂，但我留在原地，以防其他强大的死者来到我身边。我还应该看到那些已经逝去的人，我很想看到他们——忒修斯和皮里托斯——众神的光荣之子，但是成千上万的鬼魂围着我，发出如此可怕的叫声，让我惊慌失措。害怕普罗瑟芬娜从哈迪斯的房子里送来可怕的怪物戈耳工的头。于是我赶紧回到船上，命令我的人立即上船并松开缆索。于是他们上船就位，船就顺着俄刻阿诺斯河顺流而下。起初我们不得不划船，但不久就刮起了顺风。

BOOK XII
第十二册

THE SIRENS, SCYLLA AND CHARYBDIS, THE CATTLE OF THE SUN.
塞壬、斯库拉和卡律布狄斯，太阳之牛。

After we were clear of the river Oceanus, and had got out into the open sea, we went on till we reached the Aeaean island where there is dawn and sun-rise as in other places. We then drew our ship on to the sands and got out of her on to the shore, where we went to sleep and waited till day should break.
当我们离开俄刻阿诺斯河，进入公海后，我们继续前行，直到到达爱琴海岛，那里和其他地方一样有黎明和日出。然后，我们把船拖到沙滩上，下了船，来到岸边，在那里睡觉，等到天亮。

‘Then, when the child of morning, rosy-fingered Dawn, appeared, I sent some men to Circe’s house to fetch the body of Elpenor. We cut firewood from a wood where the headland jutted out into the sea, and after we had wept over him and lamented him we performed his funeral rites. When his body and armour had been burned to ashes, we raised a cairn, set a stone over it, and at the top of the cairn we fixed the oar that he had been used to row with.
“然后，当早晨的孩子，玫瑰色手指的黎明出现时，我派了一些人到喀耳刻的家里去取埃尔皮诺的尸体。我们从岬角伸入大海的树林里砍柴，为他哭泣并哀悼他之后，我们为他举行了葬礼。当他的身体和盔甲都被烧成灰烬时，我们立起一座石碑，在上面放了一块石头，并在石碑顶部固定了他用来划船的桨。

‘While we were doing all this, Circe, who knew that we had got back from the house of Hades, dressed herself and came to us as fast as she could; and her maid servants came with her bringing us bread, meat, and wine. Then she stood in the midst of us and said, ‘You have done a bold thing in going down alive to the house of Hades, and you will have died twice, to other people’s once; now, then, stay here for the rest of the day, feast your fill, and go on with your voyage at daybreak tomorrow morning. In the meantime I will tell Ulysses about your course, and will explain everything to him so as to prevent your suffering from misadventure either by land or sea.’
“当我们做这一切的时候，喀耳刻知道我们已经从哈迪斯的房子里回来了，她穿好衣服，以最快的速度来到我们身边；她的女仆和她一起来给我们带来面包、肉和酒。然后她站在我们中间说：‘你们活着下地狱真是一件大胆的事，你们已经死了两次，而别人的死一次；那么，今天剩下的时间就留在这里，吃饱喝足，明天一早天一亮就继续航行。同时我会把你的行程告诉尤利西斯，并向他解释一切，以免你在陆地或海上遭遇不幸。

‘We agreed to do as she had said, and feasted through the livelong day to the going down of the sun, but when the sun had set and it came on dark, the men laid themselves down to sleep by the stern cables of the ship. Then Circe took me by the hand and bade me be seated away from the others, while she reclined by my side and asked me all about our adventures.
“我们同意按照她说的去做，并度过了漫长的一天，直到太阳落山，但是当太阳落山，天色黑下来时，人们就在船尾的缆绳旁躺下来睡觉了。” 。然后喀耳刻拉着我的手，让我坐在远离其他人的地方，而她斜靠在我身边，向我询问我们的冒险经历。

‘‘So far so good,’ said she, when I had ended my story, ‘and now pay attention to what I am about to tell you—heaven itself, indeed, will recall it to your recollection. First you will come to the Sirens who enchant all who come near them. If any one unwarily draws in too close and hears the singing of the Sirens, his wife and children will never welcome him home again, for they sit in a green field and warble him to death with the sweetness of their song. There is a great heap of dead men’s bones lying all around, with the flesh still rotting off them. Therefore pass these Sirens by, and stop your men’s ears with wax that none of them may hear; but if you like you can listen yourself, for you may get the men to bind you as you stand upright on a cross piece half way up the mast, {99} and they must lash the rope’s ends to the mast itself, that you may have the pleasure of listening. If you beg and pray the men to unloose you, then they must bind you faster.
“到目前为止一切都很好，”当我结束我的故事时，她说道，“现在请注意我将要告诉你的事情——确实，天堂本身会把它记在你的记忆中。首先，您将看到塞壬，她们会令所有靠近她们的人着迷。如果有人不小心靠得太近，听到了塞壬的歌声，他的妻子和孩子将永远不会再欢迎他回家，因为他们坐在绿色的田野里，用甜美的歌声把他震死。周围躺着一大堆死人的骨头，上面的肉还在腐烂。因此，请绕过这些塞壬，并用蜡塞住你手下的耳朵，以免他们听到；但如果你愿意，你可以自己听，因为当你直立在桅杆一半的横梁上时，你可以让人们把你绑起来，{99}他们必须将绳子的末端绑在桅杆本身上，这样你就可以有幸聆听。如果你恳求并祈祷男人们松开你，那么他们就必须把你绑得更快。

‘‘When your crew have taken you past these Sirens, I cannot give you coherent directions {100} as to which of two courses you are to take; I will lay the two alternatives before you, and you must consider them for yourself. On the one hand there are some overhanging rocks against which the deep blue waves of Amphitrite beat with terrific fury; the blessed gods call these rocks the Wanderers. Here not even a bird may pass, no, not even the timid doves that bring ambrosia to Father Jove, but the sheer rock always carries off one of them, and Father Jove has to send another to make up their number; no ship that ever yet came to these rocks has got away again, but the waves and whirlwinds of fire are freighted with wreckage and with the bodies of dead men. The only vessel that ever sailed and got through, was the famous Argo on her way from the house of Aetes, and she too would have gone against these great rocks, only that Juno piloted her past them for the love she bore to Jason.
“当你的船员带你经过这些警报器时，我无法给你连贯的指示{100}关于你要选择两条路线中的哪一条；我将把两种选择摆在你面前，你必须自己考虑。一方面，这里有一些悬垂的岩石，安菲特里特深蓝色的波浪猛烈地拍打着它们；受祝福的众神称这些岩石为“流浪者”。甚至连一只鸟都不能经过这里，不，甚至连那些为朱庇特神父带来美味佳肴的胆怯的鸽子也不能通过，但是陡峭的岩石总是带走其中的一只，而朱庇特神父不得不派出另一只来补充它们的数量。曾经到达这些岩石的船只都没有再次逃脱，但火焰的波浪和旋风中载满了残骸和死者的尸体。唯一航行并通过的船只是著名的阿尔戈号，它正从埃忒斯的家出发，她也会撞上这些巨大的岩石，只是朱诺因为她对伊阿宋的爱而驾驶她经过它们。

‘‘Of these two rocks the one reaches heaven and its peak is lost in a dark cloud. This never leaves it, so that the top is never clear not even in summer and early autumn. No man though he had twenty hands and twenty feet could get a foothold on it and climb it, for it runs sheer up, as smooth as though it had been polished. In the middle of it there is a large cavern, looking West and turned towards Erebus; you must take your ship this way, but the cave is so high up that not even the stoutest archer could send an arrow into it. Inside it Scylla sits and yelps with a voice that you might take to be that of a young hound, but in truth she is a dreadful monster and no one—not even a god—could face her without being terror-struck. She has twelve mis-shapen feet, and six necks of the most prodigious length; and at the end of each neck she has a frightful head with three rows of teeth in each, all set very close together, so that they would crunch any one to death in a moment, and she sits deep within her shady cell thrusting out her heads and peering all round the rock, fishing for dolphins or dogfish or any larger monster that she can catch, of the thousands with which Amphitrite teems. No ship ever yet got past her without losing some men, for she shoots out all her heads at once, and carries off a man in each mouth.
“这两块岩石中，其中一块到达了天堂，其顶峰消失在乌云之中。它永远不会离开它，因此即使在夏季和初秋，顶部也永远不会清晰。即使有二十只手和二十只脚，也没有人能在上面立足并爬上去，因为它笔直地向上延伸，光滑得就像经过抛光一样。中间有一个大洞穴，向西望去，转向埃里伯斯；你必须沿着这条路走你的船，但是这个洞穴是如此之高，即使是最强壮的弓箭手也无法将箭射入其中。斯库拉坐在里面，用一种你可能认为是一只年轻猎犬的声音嚎叫，但事实上她是一个可怕的怪物，没有人——甚至是神——面对她而不感到恐惧。她有十二只畸形的脚，还有六条长度惊人的脖子。在每条脖子的末端，她都有一个可怕的头，每排都有三排牙齿，所有的牙齿都靠得很近，这样它们就会立刻把任何一个人咬死，她坐在阴暗的牢房深处，把她的身体推出去。安菲特里忒拥有数千只海豚、角鲨或任何她能捕捉到的更大的怪物。迄今为止，没有哪艘船在经过她身边时不损失一些人，因为她一下子射出了所有的头，每张嘴里都叼走了一个人。

‘‘You will find the other rock lie lower, but they are so close together that there is not more than a bow-shot between them. [A large fig tree in full leaf {101} grows upon it], and under it lies the sucking whirlpool of Charybdis. Three times in the day does she vomit forth her waters, and three times she sucks them down again; see that you be not there when she is sucking, for if you are, Neptune himself could not save you; you must hug the Scylla side and drive ship by as fast as you can, for you had better lose six men than your whole crew.’
“你会发现另一块岩石位于较低的位置，但它们靠得很近，以至于它们之间只有一张弓箭。 [其上生长着一棵长满叶子的无花果树{101}]，其下是卡律布狄斯的吸吮漩涡。她一天吐三次水，又吸三次。确保她吸吮时你不在场，因为如果你在场，海王星本人也无法拯救你； “你必须抓住锡拉的一侧并尽可能快地驾驶船，因为你最好失去六名船员，而不是失去整个船员。”

‘‘Is there no way,’ said I, ‘of escaping Charybdis, and at the same time keeping Scylla off when she is trying to harm my men?’
“有没有办法，”我说，“既能逃离卡律布狄斯，又能在斯库拉试图伤害我的人时阻止她？”

‘‘You dare devil,’ replied the goddess, ‘you are always wanting to fight somebody or something; you will not let yourself be beaten even by the immortals. For Scylla is not mortal; moreover she is savage, extreme, rude, cruel and invincible. There is no help for it; your best chance will be to get by her as fast as ever you can, for if you dawdle about her rock while you are putting on your armour, she may catch you with a second cast of her six heads, and snap up another half dozen of your men; so drive your ship past her at full speed, and roar out lustily to Crataiis who is Scylla’s dam, bad luck to her; she will then stop her from making a second raid upon you.’
“你敢于魔鬼，”女神回答道，“你总是想与某人或某物战斗；即使是神仙，你也不会让自己被打败。因为斯库拉不是凡人；而且她野蛮、极端、粗鲁、残忍、无敌。对此没有任何帮助；你最好的机会就是尽可能快地超越她，因为如果你在穿上盔甲时在她的岩石上磨磨蹭蹭，她可能会用她的六个头再次投掷来抓住你，并抢走另外六个头你的人；因此，驾驶你的船全速驶过她，并向斯库拉的母亲克拉泰斯大声咆哮，祝她好运；然后她会阻止她对你进行第二次袭击。

‘‘You will now come to the Thrinacian island, and here you will see many herds of cattle and flocks of sheep belonging to the sun-god—seven herds of cattle and seven flocks of sheep, with fifty head in each flock. They do not breed, nor do they become fewer in number, and they are tended by the goddesses Phaethusa and Lampetie, who are children of the sun-god Hyperion by Neaera. Their mother when she had borne them and had done suckling them sent them to the Thrinacian island, which was a long way off, to live there and look after their father’s flocks and herds. If you leave these flocks unharmed, and think of nothing but getting home, you may yet after much hardship reach Ithaca; but if you harm them, then I forewarn you of the destruction both of your ship and of your comrades; and even though you may yourself escape, you will return late, in bad plight, after losing all your men.’
“现在你将来到特里纳西亚岛，在这里你会看到许多属于太阳神的牛群和羊群——七群牛和七群羊，每群有五十头。它们不会繁殖，数量也不会减少，由女神菲图萨 (Phaethusa) 和兰佩蒂 (Lampetie) 照料，她们是太阳神亥伯龙 (Hyperion) 与涅拉 (Neaera) 的孩子。他们的母亲生下他们并喂完奶后，就把他们送到了很远的特里纳西亚岛，在那里居住并照顾他们父亲的羊群和牛群。如果你让这些羊群不受伤害，只想着回家，那么你可能会在历经千辛万苦之后到达伊萨卡；但如果你伤害了他们，那么我预先警告你，你的船和你的战友都会遭到毁灭；即使你自己可以逃脱，但在失去了所有的人之后，你会很晚才回来，陷入困境。

‘Here she ended, and dawn enthroned in gold began to show in heaven, whereon she returned inland. I then went on board and told my men to loose the ship from her moorings; so they at once got into her, took their places, and began to smite the grey sea with their oars. Presently the great and cunning goddess Circe befriended us with a fair wind that blew dead aft, and staid steadily with us, keeping our sails well filled, so we did whatever wanted doing to the ship’s gear, and let her go as wind and helmsman headed her.
“她到这里就结束了，金色的黎明开始出现在天空中，她随后返回内陆。然后我上了船，告诉我的手下把船从系泊处松开。于是他们立刻钻进船里，就位，开始用桨击打灰色的大海。不久，伟大而狡猾的女神喀耳刻用一股从船尾吹来的顺风与我们结下了不解之缘，并稳定地与我们站在一起，使我们的船帆保持充足，所以我们对船的设备做了任何想做的事情，然后让她在风和舵手的带领下离开她。

‘Then, being much troubled in mind, I said to my men, ‘My friends, it is not right that one or two of us alone should know the prophecies that Circe has made me, I will therefore tell you about them, so that whether we live or die we may do so with our eyes open. First she said we were to keep clear of the Sirens, who sit and sing most beautifully in a field of flowers; but she said I might hear them myself so long as no one else did. Therefore, take me and bind me to the crosspiece half way up the mast; bind me as I stand upright, with a bond so fast that I cannot possibly break away, and lash the rope’s ends to the mast itself. If I beg and pray you to set me free, then bind me more tightly still.’
“然后，我心里很烦恼，对我的部下说：‘我的朋友们，我们中的一两个人应该单独知道喀耳刻为我所做的预言，这是不对的，因此我将告诉你们这些预言，以便无论我们是生还是死，我们都可以睁着眼睛这样做。首先，她说我们要远离塞壬，她们坐在花丛中，唱着最美妙的歌。但她说只要没有其他人听到，我自己就可以听到。因此，带上我，把我绑在桅杆中间的横梁上；当我直立时，将我绑住，绑得如此之紧，以至于我无法挣脱，并将绳子的末端绑在桅杆上。如果我恳求你让我自由，那就把我绑得更紧吧。”

‘I had hardly finished telling everything to the men before we reached the island of the two Sirens, {102} for the wind had been very favourable. Then all of a sudden it fell dead calm; there was not a breath of wind nor a ripple upon the water, so the men furled the sails and stowed them; then taking to their oars they whitened the water with the foam they raised in rowing. Meanwhile I look a large wheel of wax and cut it up small with my sword. Then I kneaded the wax in my strong hands till it became soft, which it soon did between the kneading and the rays of the sun-god son of Hyperion. Then I stopped the ears of all my men, and they bound me hands and feet to the mast as I stood upright on the cross piece; but they went on rowing themselves. When we had got within earshot of the land, and the ship was going at a good rate, the Sirens saw that we were getting in shore and began with their singing.
“在我们到达两个海妖岛之前，我几乎没有向他们讲述完所有事情，{102}因为风向非常有利。突然间，一切都变得异常平静。没有一丝风，水面上没有一丝涟漪，于是人们收起船帆，把它们收起来。然后他们拿起桨，用划船时产生的泡沫使水变白。与此同时，我看着一个大蜡轮，并用我的剑把它切成小块。然后我用我有力的双手揉捏蜡，直到它变软，在揉捏和海伯利安太阳神儿子的光芒之间，蜡很快就变软了。然后我堵住了所有手下的耳朵，他们把我的手脚绑在桅杆上，我直立在横梁上。但他们继续自己划船。当我们到达陆地的听力范围内，并且船正在以良好的速度行驶时，海妖们看到我们正在靠岸，并开始唱歌。

‘‘Come here,’ they sang, ‘renowned Ulysses, honour to the Achaean name, and listen to our two voices. No one ever sailed past us without staying to hear the enchanting sweetness of our song—and he who listens will go on his way not only charmed, but wiser, for we know all the ills that the gods laid upon the Argives and Trojans before Troy, and can tell you everything that is going to happen over the whole world.’
“到这里来，”他们唱道，“著名的尤利西斯，荣耀亚该亚之名，聆听我们两个的声音。”航行经过我们身边的人都会留下来聆听我们迷人的甜美歌声——聆听的人不仅会被迷住，还会变得更加明智，因为我们知道诸神在特洛伊之前对阿尔戈斯人和特洛伊人施加的所有祸害。 ，并且可以告诉你全世界将要发生的一切。”

‘They sang these words most musically, and as I longed to hear them further I made signs by frowning to my men that they should set me free; but they quickened their stroke, and Eurylochus and Perimedes bound me with still stronger bonds till we had got out of hearing of the Sirens’ voices. Then my men took the wax from their ears and unbound me.
“他们把这些歌词唱得最动听，当我渴望进一步听到它们时，我皱着眉头向我的手下做出手势，示意他们应该释放我；但他们加快了动作，欧律洛科斯和佩里米得斯用更牢固的绳索把我绑了起来，直到我们听不到塞壬的声音。然后我的手下取下了耳垢并解开了我的束缚。

‘Immediately after we had got past the island I saw a great wave from which spray was rising, and I heard a loud roaring sound. The men were so frightened that they loosed hold of their oars, for the whole sea resounded with the rushing of the waters, {103} but the ship stayed where it was, for the men had left off rowing. I went round, therefore, and exhorted them man by man not to lose heart.
“我们刚过了那个岛，我就看到一股巨大的波浪，水花从上面升起，我听到一声巨大的轰鸣声。人们吓得松开了桨，因为整个大海都因水流的湍急而回响，{103}但船留在了原处，因为人们停止了划桨。因此，我四处走访，逐一劝告他们不要灰心。

‘‘My friends,’ said I, ‘this is not the first time that we have been in danger, and we are in nothing like so bad a case as when the Cyclops shut us up in his cave; nevertheless, my courage and wise counsel saved us then, and we shall live to look back on all this as well. Now, therefore, let us all do as I say, trust in Jove and row on with might and main. As for you, coxswain, these are your orders; attend to them, for the ship is in your hands; turn her head away from these steaming rapids and hug the rock, or she will give you the slip and be over yonder before you know where you are, and you will be the death of us.’
“我的朋友们，”我说，“这不是我们第一次陷入危险，而且我们遇到的情况也没有比独眼巨人把我们关在他的山洞里更糟糕的了。尽管如此，我的勇气和明智的建议拯救了我们，我们也将活着回顾这一切。因此，现在，让我们大家都按照我说的去做，相信朱庇特，全力以赴地划船。至于你，船长，这是你的命令；照顾他们，因为船在你手中；把她的头从这些热气腾腾的急流上转开，拥抱岩石，否则她就会让你溜走，在你知道自己在哪里之前就到那边去，你就会成为我们的死者。

‘So they did as I told them; but I said nothing about the awful monster Scylla, for I knew the men would not go on rowing if I did, but would huddle together in the hold. In one thing only did I disobey Circe’s strict instructions—I put on my armour. Then seizing two strong spears I took my stand on the ship’s bows, for it was there that I expected first to see the monster of the rock, who was to do my men so much harm; but I could not make her out anywhere, though I strained my eyes with looking the gloomy rock all over and over.
‘他们就照我吩咐的做了；但我对可怕的怪物斯库拉只字未提，因为我知道如果我这样做，人们就不会继续划船，而是会挤在船舱里。我只有一件事违反了喀耳刻的严格指示——穿上了盔甲。然后我抓起两把坚固的长矛站在船头，因为我预计在那里首先会看到岩石怪物，它会对我的士兵造成如此大的伤害；尽管我睁大眼睛一遍又一遍地打量着那块阴暗的岩石，但我还是看不出她在哪里。

‘Then we entered the Straits in great fear of mind, for on the one hand was Scylla, and on the other dread Charybdis kept sucking up the salt water. As she vomited it up, it was like the water in a cauldron when it is boiling over upon a great fire, and the spray reached the top of the rocks on either side. When she began to suck again, we could see the water all inside whirling round and round, and it made a deafening sound as it broke against the rocks. We could see the bottom of the whirlpool all black with sand and mud, and the men were at their wits ends for fear. While we were taken up with this, and were expecting each moment to be our last, Scylla pounced down suddenly upon us and snatched up my six best men. I was looking at once after both ship and men, and in a moment I saw their hands and feet ever so high above me, struggling in the air as Scylla was carrying them off, and I heard them call out my name in one last despairing cry. As a fisherman, seated, spear in hand, upon some jutting rock {104} throws bait into the water to deceive the poor little fishes, and spears them with the ox’s horn with which his spear is shod, throwing them gasping on to the land as he catches them one by one—even so did Scylla land these panting creatures on her rock and munch them up at the mouth of her den, while they screamed and stretched out their hands to me in their mortal agony. This was the most sickening sight that I saw throughout all my voyages.
“然后我们怀着极大的恐惧进入了海峡，一方面是因为斯库拉，另一方面又害怕卡律布狄斯不断地吸着咸水。她吐出来的时候，就像大火烧开的锅里的水一样，水花溅到了两边的岩石顶上。当她再次吸吮时，我们可以看到里面的水在旋转，并且撞击岩石时发出震耳欲聋的声音。只见漩涡底部全是黑色的沙子和泥土，人们都惊慌失措。当我们正忙着处理这件事，并期待着每一刻都是我们的最后一刻时，锡拉突然向我们扑来，抓走了我最好的六个人。我立刻看着船和人，刹那间，我看到他们的手和脚在我上方如此之高，在斯库拉将他们带走时在空中挣扎，我听到他们最后绝望地呼喊着我的名字哭。就像一个渔夫，手持长矛，坐在一块突出的岩石上{104}，将诱饵扔进水中，以欺骗可怜的小鱼，并用长矛上钉着的牛角来刺它们，将它们扔到陆地上，喘着粗气当他一一抓住它们时——即便如此，斯库拉还是把这些气喘吁吁的生物落在了她的岩石上，在她的巢穴口把它们嚼碎了，而它们则尖叫着，在致命的痛苦中向我伸出了双手。这是我在所有航行中看到的最令人作呕的景象。

‘When we had passed the [Wandering] rocks, with Scylla and terrible Charybdis, we reached the noble island of the sun-god, where were the goodly cattle and sheep belonging to the sun Hyperion. While still at sea in my ship I could bear the cattle lowing as they came home to the yards, and the sheep bleating. Then I remembered what the blind Theban prophet Teiresias had told me, and how carefully Aeaean Circe had warned me to shun the island of the blessed sun-god. So being much troubled I said to the men, ‘My men, I know you are hard pressed, but listen while I tell you the prophecy that Teiresias made me, and how carefully Aeaean Circe warned me to shun the island of the blessed sun-god, for it was here, she said, that our worst danger would lie. Head the ship, therefore, away from the island.’
“当我们经过[徘徊]岩石、斯库拉和可怕的卡律布狄斯时，我们到达了太阳神的高贵岛屿，那里有属于太阳亥伯龙的优质牛羊。当我还在海上航行时，我就可以忍受牛群回到院子时的咩咩叫声和羊群的咩咩叫声。然后我想起了盲眼的底比斯先知泰瑞西亚斯告诉我的话，以及埃亚斯喀耳刻如何小心地警告我避开神圣的太阳神的岛屿。因此，我非常烦恼，对他们说：“我的伙计们，我知道你们压力很大，但是请听我告诉你们泰瑞西阿斯给我做的预言，以及埃伊安喀耳刻如何小心地警告我避开神圣的太阳岛——天啊，因为这里就是我们最大的危险所在，她说。因此，把船开到远离岛屿的地方。”

‘The men were in despair at this, and Eurylochus at once gave me an insolent answer. ‘Ulysses,’ said he, ‘you are cruel; you are very strong yourself and never get worn out; you seem to be made of iron, and now, though your men are exhausted with toil and want of sleep, you will not let them land and cook themselves a good supper upon this island, but bid them put out to sea and go faring fruitlessly on through the watches of the flying night. It is by night that the winds blow hardest and do so much damage; how can we escape should one of those sudden squalls spring up from South West or West, which so often wreck a vessel when our lords the gods are unpropitious? Now, therefore, let us obey the behests of night and prepare our supper here hard by the ship; to-morrow morning we will go on board again and put out to sea.’
“人们对此感到绝望，欧律洛科斯立即给了我一个无礼的答复。 “尤利西斯，”他说，“你很残忍；你自己很坚强，永远不会疲倦；你好像是铁做的，现在，尽管你的人因辛劳和缺乏睡眠而精疲力尽，你不会让他们在这个岛上登陆并为自己做一顿丰盛的晚餐，而是命令他们出海，徒劳无功地航行穿过飞行之夜的手表。夜间的风吹得最猛烈，造成的破坏也最严重。当我们的主神不吉利时，如果西南或西边突然爆发狂风，我们该如何逃生？现在，让我们听从夜晚的召唤，在船边努力准备我们的晚餐吧。明天早上我们将再次登船出海。

‘Thus spoke Eurylochus, and the men approved his words. I saw that heaven meant us a mischief and said, ‘You force me to yield, for you are many against one, but at any rate each one of you must take his solemn oath that if he meet with a herd of cattle or a large flock of sheep, he will not be so mad as to kill a single head of either, but will be satisfied with the food that Circe has given us.’
‘欧律洛科斯如此说道，人们都赞同他的话。我看到上天有意对我们进行恶作剧，说道：‘你们强迫我屈服，因为你们是多人对抗，但无论如何，你们每个人都必须庄严宣誓，如果他遇到一群牛或一大群人，羊群，他不会疯狂到杀掉其中任何一个的头，而​​是会对喀耳刻给我们的食物感到满意。

‘They all swore as I bade them, and when they had completed their oath we made the ship fast in a harbour that was near a stream of fresh water, and the men went ashore and cooked their suppers. As soon as they had had enough to eat and drink, they began talking about their poor comrades whom Scylla had snatched up and eaten; this set them weeping and they went on crying till they fell off into a sound sleep.
“他们都按照我的吩咐发誓，当他们完成誓言后，我们把船停在靠近淡水溪流的港口，人们上岸煮了晚饭。当他们吃饱喝足后，他们就开始谈论被斯库拉抓起来吃掉的可怜的战友。这让他们哭了，他们一直哭，直到睡着了。

‘In the third watch of the night when the stars had shifted their places, Jove raised a great gale of wind that flew a hurricane so that land and sea were covered with thick clouds, and night sprang forth out of the heavens. When the child of morning, rosy-fingered Dawn, appeared, we brought the ship to land and drew her into a cave wherein the sea-nymphs hold their courts and dances, and I called the men together in council.
“到了三更，星星移位的时候，朱庇特刮起一阵大风，刮起了飓风，陆地和海洋都被厚厚的云层覆盖，夜幕从天而降。当早晨的孩子，玫瑰色手指的黎明出现时，我们把船带到了陆地上，把她拖进了一个山洞，海仙们在那里举行了她们的法庭和舞蹈，我把人们召集在一起开会。

‘‘My friends,’ said I, ‘we have meat and drink in the ship, let us mind, therefore, and not touch the cattle, or we shall suffer for it; for these cattle and sheep belong to the mighty sun, who sees and gives ear to everything.’ And again they promised that they would obey.
“我的朋友们，”我说，“我们船上有吃的有喝的，所以我们要当心，不要碰牛，否则我们会受苦的；”因为这些牛羊属于强大的太阳，他能看见一切，也能倾听一切。”他们再次承诺，他们会服从。

‘For a whole month the wind blew steadily from the South, and there was no other wind, but only South and East. {105} As long as corn and wine held out the men did not touch the cattle when they were hungry; when, however, they had eaten all there was in the ship, they were forced to go further afield, with hook and line, catching birds, and taking whatever they could lay their hands on; for they were starving. One day, therefore, I went up inland that I might pray heaven to show me some means of getting away. When I had gone far enough to be clear of all my men, and had found a place that was well sheltered from the wind, I washed my hands and prayed to all the gods in Olympus till by and by they sent me off into a sweet sleep.
整整一个月，风一直从南边吹来，没有别的风，只有南风和东风。 {105} 只要有谷物和酒，人们在饥饿时就不会碰牛；然而，当他们吃完船上的所有食物后，他们被迫去更远的地方，用钩子和绳子捉鸟，抓到任何东西。因为他们正在挨饿。因此，有一天，我前往内陆，祈求上天赐予我一些逃脱的方法。当我走得足够远，远离我所有的人，并找到一个避风的地方时，我洗手并向奥林匹斯山的众神祈祷，直到他们把我送进了甜蜜的地方。睡觉。

‘Meanwhile Eurylochus had been giving evil counsel to the men, ‘Listen to me,’ said he, ‘my poor comrades. All deaths are bad enough but there is none so bad as famine. Why should not we drive in the best of these cows and offer them in sacrifice to the immortal gods? If we ever get back to Ithaca, we can build a fine temple to the sun-god and enrich it with every kind of ornament; if, however, he is determined to sink our ship out of revenge for these homed cattle, and the other gods are of the same mind, I for one would rather drink salt water once for all and have done with it, than be starved to death by inches in such a desert island as this is.’
“与此同时，欧律洛科斯一直在向人们提出邪恶的建议，‘听我说，’他说，‘我可怜的同志们。所有的死亡都已经够糟糕的了，但没有比饥荒更糟糕的了。为什么我们不应该把这些最好的牛赶来，把它们献给不朽的神呢？如果我们回到伊萨卡，我们可以为太阳神建造一座精美的神庙，并用各种装饰品来丰富它；然而，如果他为了报复这些回家的牲畜而决定击沉我们的船，而其他神也有同样的想法，我宁愿喝一次咸水并结束它，也不愿挨饿在这样一个荒岛上，寸步难行。

‘Thus spoke Eurylochus, and the men approved his words. Now the cattle, so fair and goodly, were feeding not far from the ship; the men, therefore, drove in the best of them, and they all stood round them saying their prayers, and using young oak-shoots instead of barley-meal, for there was no barley left. When they had done praying they killed the cows and dressed their carcasses; they cut out the thigh bones, wrapped them round in two layers of fat, and set some pieces of raw meat on top of them. They had no wine with which to make drink-offerings over the sacrifice while it was cooking, so they kept pouring on a little water from time to time while the inward meats were being grilled; then, when the thigh bones were burned and they had tasted the inward meats, they cut the rest up small and put the pieces upon the spits.
‘欧律洛科斯如此说道，人们都赞同他的话。现在，牛群又漂亮又好，正在离船不远的地方吃草。因此，人们把最好的人赶了进来，他们都站在他们周围祈祷，并用年轻的橡树芽代替大麦粉，因为没有留下大麦。祈祷完毕后，他们杀了牛，并把它们的尸体处理好。他们切下大腿骨，用两层脂肪包裹起来，然后在上面放上一些生肉。烹调时，他们没有酒可以用来奠祭，所以在烤内脏的时候，他们时不时地倒一点水。然后，当大腿骨被烧焦并尝到里面的肉时，他们把剩下的切成小块，放在烤肉叉上。

‘By this time my deep sleep had left me, and I turned back to the ship and to the sea shore. As I drew near I began to smell hot roast meat, so I groaned out a prayer to the immortal gods. ‘Father Jove,’ I exclaimed, ‘and all you other gods who live in everlasting bliss, you have done me a cruel mischief by the sleep into which you have sent me; see what fine work these men of mine have been making in my absence.’
“此时，我已经进入了深度睡眠，我转身回到船上，回到海边。当我走近时，我开始闻到热腾腾的烤肉的味道，于是我呻吟着向不朽的诸神祈祷。 “朱庇特神父，”我喊道，“还有你们所有生活在永恒幸福中的神，你们让我陷入沉睡，对我造成了残酷的伤害；你们让我陷入了沉睡。”看看我不在的时候，我的这些人干出了多么出色的工作。”

‘Meanwhile Lampetie went straight off to the sun and told him we had been killing his cows, whereon he flew into a great rage, and said to the immortals, ‘Father Jove, and all you other gods who live in everlasting bliss, I must have vengeance on the crew of Ulysses’ ship: they have had the insolence to kill my cows, which were the one thing I loved to look upon, whether I was going up heaven or down again. If they do not square accounts with me about my cows, I will go down to Hades and shine there among the dead.’
与此同时，兰佩蒂径直走向太阳，告诉他我们杀了他的牛，他勃然大怒，对众神说：“朱庇特神父，以及所有其他生活在永恒幸福中的神，我必须这样做。”向尤利西斯船上的船员报仇：他们无礼地杀死了我的牛，无论我是上天堂还是下地狱，牛都是我最喜欢看的东西。如果他们不跟我算账，我就会下到地狱，在死者中闪耀。

‘‘Sun,’ said Jove, ‘go on shining upon us gods and upon mankind over the fruitful earth. I will shiver their ship into little pieces with a bolt of white lightning as soon as they get out to sea.’
“太阳，”朱庇特说，“继续照耀我们诸神，照耀人类，照耀肥沃的大地。”他们一出海，我就会用一道白色闪电将他们的船震成碎片。

‘I was told all this by Calypso, who said she had heard it from the mouth of Mercury.
“这一切都是卡吕普索告诉我的，她说她是从墨丘利口中听到的。

‘As soon as I got down to my ship and to the sea shore I rebuked each one of the men separately, but we could see no way out of it, for the cows were dead already. And indeed the gods began at once to show signs and wonders among us, for the hides of the cattle crawled about, and the joints upon the spits began to low like cows, and the meat, whether cooked or raw, kept on making a noise just as cows do.
“我一上船，到了海边，就分别斥责了每一个人，但我们看不出有什么出路，因为牛已经死了。确实，众神立刻开始在我们中间显出神迹奇事，因为牛皮爬来爬去，烤肉叉上的关节开始像牛一样低鸣，而肉，无论是熟的还是生的，都不断发出噪音。就像牛一样。

‘For six days my men kept driving in the best cows and feasting upon them, but when Jove the son of Saturn had added a seventh day, the fury of the gale abated; we therefore went on board, raised our masts, spread sail, and put out to sea. As soon as we were well away from the island, and could see nothing but sky and sea, the son of Saturn raised a black cloud over our ship, and the sea grew dark beneath it. We did not get on much further, for in another moment we were caught by a terrific squall from the West that snapped the forestays of the mast so that it fell aft, while all the ship’s gear tumbled about at the bottom of the vessel. The mast fell upon the head of the helmsman in the ship’s stern, so that the bones of his head were crushed to pieces, and he fell overboard as though he were diving, with no more life left in him.
“六天以来，我的人一直赶着最好的牛并享用它们，但是当土星之子朱庇特又过了第七天时，狂风的威力减弱了；于是我们上了船，扬起桅杆，扬帆出海。当我们远离岛屿，除了天空和大海什么也看不见时，土星之子在我们的船上升起一片乌云，下面的大海变得黑暗。我们没有继续前行，因为就在这时，我们遭遇了来自西方的一场可怕的狂风，桅杆的前支索被折断，导致它落到船尾，而船上的所有设备都在船底翻滚。桅杆落到了船尾舵手的头上，他的头骨被压碎，他像潜水一样从船上掉了下去，死了。

‘Then Jove let fly with his thunderbolts, and the ship went round and round, and was filled with fire and brimstone as the lightning struck it. The men all fell into the sea; they were carried about in the water round the ship, looking like so many sea-gulls, but the god presently deprived them of all chance of getting home again.
‘然后朱庇特发出雷电，船不停地旋转，闪电击中时，船里充满了火焰和硫磺。所有人都掉进了海里；他们在船周围的水中飘来飘去，看起来像许多海鸥，但上帝很快就剥夺了他们再次回家的机会。

‘I stuck to the ship till the sea knocked her sides from her keel (which drifted about by itself) and struck the mast out of her in the direction of the keel; but there was a backstay of stout ox-thong still hanging about it, and with this I lashed the mast and keel together, and getting astride of them was carried wherever the winds chose to take me.
“我紧紧抓住船，直到海水将她的两侧从龙骨上撞开（龙骨自行漂流），并将桅杆朝龙骨的方向从她身上撞下来；但它上面还挂着一条粗壮的牛皮带后撑，我用它把桅杆和龙骨绑在一起，无论风把我带到哪里，我就跨在它们身上。

‘[The gale from the West had now spent its force, and the wind got into the South again, which frightened me lest I should be taken back to the terrible whirlpool of Charybdis. This indeed was what actually happened, for I was borne along by the waves all night, and by sunrise had reached the rock of Scylla, and the whirlpool. She was then sucking down the salt sea water, {106} but I was carried aloft toward the fig tree, which I caught hold of and clung on to like a bat. I could not plant my feet anywhere so as to stand securely, for the roots were a long way off and the boughs that overshadowed the whole pool were too high, too vast, and too far apart for me to reach them; so I hung patiently on, waiting till the pool should discharge my mast and raft again—and a very long while it seemed. A jury-man is not more glad to get home to supper, after having been long detained in court by troublesome cases, than I was to see my raft beginning to work its way out of the whirlpool again. At last I let go with my hands and feet, and fell heavily into the sea, hard by my raft on to which I then got, and began to row with my hands. As for Scylla, the father of gods and men would not let her get further sight of me—otherwise I should have certainly been lost.] {107}
‘[西边的大风现在已经耗尽了力量，风又吹进了南边，这让我很害怕，生怕我会被带回可怕的卡律布狄斯漩涡。这确实是实际发生的事情，因为我整个晚上都被海浪冲着走，到日出时就到达了锡拉岩石和漩涡。然后她正在吸咸海水，{106}但我被高高地带到无花果树旁，我抓住它并像蝙蝠一样抓住它。我无法在任何地方站稳脚跟，因为树根离我很远，遮蔽整个池塘的树枝太高、太大、相隔太远，我够不到它们。所以我耐心地坚持着，等待着水池再次卸下我的桅杆和木筏——而且似乎等待了很长一段时间。陪审团成员在因棘手案件长期滞留在法庭后回家吃晚饭，并不比我看到我的木筏再次开始摆脱漩涡更高兴。最后我松开了手脚，重重地摔进了海里，紧挨着我的木筏，然后我上了木筏，开始用手划船。至于斯库拉，众神和人类之父不会让她进一步看到我——否则我肯定会迷路。] {107}

‘Hence I was carried along for nine days till on the tenth night the gods stranded me on the Ogygian island, where dwells the great and powerful goddess Calypso. She took me in and was kind to me, but I need say no more about this, for I told you and your noble wife all about it yesterday, and I hate saying the same thing over and over again.’
“就这样，我被带了九天，直到第十天晚上，众神把我困在了奥吉吉亚岛上，那里居住着伟大而强大的女神卡吕普索。她收留了我，对我很好，但我不需要再多说了，因为昨天我已经告诉了你和你高贵的妻子这一切，我讨厌一遍又一遍地说同样的事情。

BOOK XIII
第十三册

ULYSSES LEAVES SCHERIA AND RETURNS TO ITHACA.
尤利西斯离开谢里亚并返回伊萨卡。

Thus did he speak, and they all held their peace throughout the covered cloister, enthralled by the charm of his story, till presently Alcinous began to speak.
他就这样说道，大家在有顶棚的回廊里都保持着安静，被他故事的魅力所吸引，直到阿尔西诺斯开始说话。

‘Ulysses,’ said he, ‘now that you have reached my house I doubt not you will get home without further misadventure no matter how much you have suffered in the past. To you others, however, who come here night after night to drink my choicest wine and listen to my bard, I would insist as follows. Our guest has already packed up the clothes, wrought gold, {108} and other valuables which you have brought for his acceptance; let us now, therefore, present him further, each one of us, with a large tripod and a cauldron. We will recoup ourselves by the levy of a general rate; for private individuals cannot be expected to bear the burden of such a handsome present.’
“尤利西斯，”他说，“既然你已经到了我家，我相信无论你过去遭受了多少苦难，你都会回到家而不会再遇到不幸。”然而，对于你们这些夜复一夜来这里喝我精选的美酒、聆听我的吟游诗人的人，我会坚持如下。我们的客人已经收拾好你带来的衣服、锻金、{108}和其他贵重物品；因此，现在让我们向他进一步展示，我们每个人都拿着一个大三脚架和一个大锅。我们将通过征收一般税率来弥补；因为不能指望私人承担如此丰厚礼物的负担。”

Every one approved of this, and then they went home to bed each in his own abode. When the child of morning, rosy-fingered Dawn, appeared they hurried down to the ship and brought their cauldrons with them. Alcinous went on board and saw everything so securely stowed under the ship’s benches that nothing could break adrift and injure the rowers. Then they went to the house of Alcinous to get dinner, and he sacrificed a bull for them in honour of Jove who is the lord of all. They set the steaks to grill and made an excellent dinner, after which the inspired bard, Demodocus, who was a favourite with every one, sang to them; but Ulysses kept on turning his eyes towards the sun, as though to hasten his setting, for he was longing to be on his way. As one who has been all day ploughing a fallow field with a couple of oxen keeps thinking about his supper and is glad when night comes that he may go and get it, for it is all his legs can do to carry him, even so did Ulysses rejoice when the sun went down, and he at once said to the Phaeacians, addressing himself more particularly to King Alcinous:
大家都同意了，然后就各自回家睡觉了。当早晨的孩子，玫瑰色手指的黎明出现时，他们匆忙下到船上，并带来了他们的大锅。阿尔西努斯上了船，看到所有东西都安全地存放在船的长凳下，任何东西都不会随水漂流而损坏划船者。然后他们去阿尔西努斯的家吃晚饭，他为他们牺牲了一头公牛，以纪念万物之主朱庇特。他们把牛排放在烤架上，做了一顿丰盛的晚餐，随后，深受大家喜爱的诗人德摩多克斯为他们唱歌。但尤利西斯一直将目光转向太阳，似乎是在加速落日，因为他渴望上路。就像一个人和几头牛在休耕地里耕了一整天的人，一直想着他的晚餐，并很高兴当夜幕降临时他可以去取它，因为他的腿只能用他的腿来支撑他，即使这样当太阳落山时，尤利西斯很高兴，他立即对菲埃克斯人说，特别是对阿尔西诺斯国王说：

‘Sir, and all of you, farewell. Make your drink-offerings and send me on my way rejoicing, for you have fulfilled my heart’s desire by giving me an escort, and making me presents, which heaven grant that I may turn to good account; may I find my admirable wife living in peace among friends, {109} and may you whom I leave behind me give satisfaction to your wives and children; {110} may heaven vouchsafe you every good grace, and may no evil thing come among your people.’
‘先生，各位，再见了。求你为我献上奠祭，让我欢欢喜喜地上路，因为你满足了我的心愿，护送我，又给我送礼物，上天赐予我好报；愿我发现我令人钦佩的妻子和朋友们和平相处，{109}愿我留下的你们让你们的妻子和孩子满意； {110} 愿上天赐予您一切善意，愿您的人民中没有邪恶的事情发生。

Thus did he speak. His hearers all of them approved his saying and agreed that he should have his escort inasmuch as he had spoken reasonably. Alcinous therefore said to his servant, ‘Pontonous, mix some wine and hand it round to everybody, that we may offer a prayer to father Jove, and speed our guest upon his way.’
他就这样说了。听者无不赞同他的说法，认为他说得有道理，应该由他护送。阿尔西努斯对他的仆人说：“庞托努斯，调点酒，分给大家，这样我们就可以向朱庇特神父祈祷，​​并催促我们的客人上路了。”

Pontonous mixed the wine and handed it to every one in turn; the others each from his own seat made a drink-offering to the blessed gods that live in heaven, but Ulysses rose and placed the double cup in the hands of queen Arete.
庞托诺斯将酒调好，依次递给每个人。其他人都在自己的座位上向天上受祝福的众神敬酒，但尤利西斯站起来，将双杯放在女王阿瑞特的手中。

‘Farewell, queen,’ said he, ‘henceforward and for ever, till age and death, the common lot of mankind, lay their hands upon you. I now take my leave; be happy in this house with your children, your people, and with king Alcinous.’
“永别了，王后，”他说道，“从今以后，直到永远，直到衰老和死亡，人类的共同命运，都降临在你身上。”我现在告辞了；和你的孩子、你的人民以及阿尔西努斯国王一起在这座房子里快乐吧。”

As he spoke he crossed the threshold, and Alcinous sent a man to conduct him to his ship and to the sea shore. Arete also sent some maidservants with him—one with a clean shirt and cloak, another to carry his strong box, and a third with corn and wine. When they got to the water side the crew took these things and put them on board, with all the meat and drink; but for Ulysses they spread a rug and a linen sheet on deck that he might sleep soundly in the stern of the ship. Then he too went on board and lay down without a word, but the crew took every man his place and loosed the hawser from the pierced stone to which it had been bound. Thereon, when they began rowing out to sea, Ulysses fell into a deep, sweet, and almost deathlike slumber. {111}
当他说话时，他跨过了门槛，阿尔西努斯派了一个人把他带到他的船上，带到了海边。阿瑞特还派了一些女仆跟他一起去——其中一个穿着干净的衬衫和斗篷，另一个负责搬运他的保险箱，第三个则带着玉米和酒。当他们到达水边时，船员们把这些东西连同所有的肉和饮料一起放在船上；但对于尤利西斯，他们在甲板上铺了一块地毯和一张亚麻床单，以便他可以在船尾睡个好觉。然后他也上了船，一言不发地躺了下来，但船员们各就各位，把绑在穿孔石头上的缆索松开了。此后，当他们开始划船出海时，尤利西斯陷入了深沉、甜蜜、近乎死亡的睡眠。 {111}

The ship bounded forward on her way as a four in hand chariot flies over the course when the horses feel the whip. Her prow curvetted as it were the neck of a stallion, and a great wave of dark blue water seethed in her wake. She held steadily on her course, and even a falcon, swiftest of all birds, could not have kept pace with her. Thus, then, she cut her way through the water, carrying one who was as cunning as the gods, but who was now sleeping peacefully, forgetful of all that he had suffered both on the field of battle and by the waves of the weary sea.
当马匹感受到鞭子时，一艘四手战车飞过航线，船在途中跳跃前进。她的船头像公马的脖子一样弯曲，身后掀起一股深蓝色的巨浪。她坚定地沿着航线前进，即使是所有鸟类中速度最快的猎鹰也无法跟上她的步伐。就这样，她在水中开辟了一条路，带着一个狡猾如神的人，但他现在正在安静地睡觉，忘记了他在战场上和疲倦的海浪中所遭受的一切。 。

When the bright star that heralds the approach of dawn began to show, the ship drew near to land. {112} Now there is in Ithaca a haven of the old merman Phorcys, which lies between two points that break the line of the sea and shut the harbour in. These shelter it from the storms of wind and sea that rage outside, so that, when once within it, a ship may lie without being even moored. At the head of this harbour there is a large olive tree, and at no great distance a fine overarching cavern sacred to the nymphs who are called Naiads. {113} There are mixing bowls within it and wine-jars of stone, and the bees hive there. Moreover, there are great looms of stone on which the nymphs weave their robes of sea purple—very curious to see—and at all times there is water within it. It has two entrances, one facing North by which mortals can go down into the cave, while the other comes from the South and is more mysterious; mortals cannot possibly get in by it, it is the way taken by the gods.
当预示着黎明来临的明亮星星开始出现时，船已经接近陆地了。 {112}现在在伊萨卡有一个老人鱼福尔库斯的港口，它位于打破海线并将港口封闭的两点之间。这些点保护它免受外面肆虐的风和海的风暴，因此，一旦进入其中，一艘船可能会在没有停泊的情况下躺着。在这个港口的尽头有一棵大橄榄树，不远处有一个精美的拱形洞穴，供奉着被称为水仙女的仙女们的圣地。 {113} 里面有搅拌碗和石头酒坛，蜜蜂在那里蜂巢。此外，还有巨大的石织机，仙女们在上面编织她们的海紫色长袍——看起来很奇怪——里面随时都有水。它有两个入口，一个朝北，凡人可以下洞，另一个则朝南，比较神秘。凡人不可能进去，这是神所走的路。

Into this harbour, then, they took their ship, for they knew the place. {114} She had so much way upon her that she ran half her own length on to the shore; {115} when, however, they had landed, the first thing they did was to lift Ulysses with his rug and linen sheet out of the ship, and lay him down upon the sand still fast asleep. Then they took out the presents which Minerva had persuaded the Phaeacians to give him when he was setting out on his voyage homewards. They put these all together by the root of the olive tree, away from the road, for fear some passer by {116} might come and steal them before Ulysses awoke; and then they made the best of their way home again.
然后，他们把船开进了这个港口，因为他们知道这个地方。 {114}她有如此多的路要走，以至于她跑了一半的长度到岸上； {115} 然而，当他们登陆时，他们做的第一件事就是将尤利西斯连同他的地毯和亚麻床单一起从船上提出来，并将他放在仍在熟睡的沙滩上。然后他们拿出了密涅瓦说服菲亚克斯人在他启程回家时送给他的礼物。他们把这些东西放在橄榄树根下，远离道路，因为担心路过的人{116}可能会在尤利西斯醒来之前偷走它们；然后他们又尽全力回家了。

But Neptune did not forget the threats with which he had already threatened Ulysses, so he took counsel with Jove. ‘Father Jove,’ said he, ‘I shall no longer be held in any sort of respect among you gods, if mortals like the Phaeacians, who are my own flesh and blood, show such small regard for me. I said I would let Ulysses get home when he had suffered sufficiently. I did not say that he should never get home at all, for I knew you had already nodded your head about it, and promised that he should do so; but now they have brought him in a ship fast asleep and have landed him in Ithaca after loading him with more magnificent presents of bronze, gold, and raiment than he would ever have brought back from Troy, if he had had his share of the spoil and got home without misadventure.’
但尼普顿并没有忘记他曾经威胁过尤利西斯的威胁，所以他向朱庇特征求了意见。 “天父朱庇特，”他说道，“如果凡人像斐阿克人一样，我的亲骨肉，对我表现出如此小的尊重，那么我将不再受到你们诸神的任何尊重。”我说过等尤利西斯受够了痛苦我就会放他回家。我并没有说他永远不应该回家，因为我知道你已经点头同意他应该这样做；但现在他们把他带上一艘熟睡的船，把他带到伊萨卡岛，给他装上更多华丽的青铜、金子和衣服礼物，如果他有自己的一份战利品的话，他从特洛伊带回来的礼物比这还要多。并顺利回到家。

And Jove answered, ‘What, O Lord of the Earthquake, are you talking about? The gods are by no means wanting in respect for you. It would be monstrous were they to insult one so old and honoured as you are. As regards mortals, however, if any of them is indulging in insolence and treating you disrespectfully, it will always rest with yourself to deal with him as you may think proper, so do just as you please.’
朱庇特回答说：“地震之主啊，你在说什么？诸神绝不缺乏对你的尊重。如果他们侮辱像你这么年长、受人尊敬的人，那就太可怕了。然而，对于凡人来说，如果他们中的任何一个人对你无礼，对你不敬，你自己就可以按照你认为正确的方式对待他，所以你就随心所欲吧。

‘I should have done so at once,’ replied Neptune, ‘if I were not anxious to avoid anything that might displease you; now, therefore, I should like to wreck the Phaeacian ship as it is returning from its escort. This will stop them from escorting people in future; and I should also like to bury their city under a huge mountain.’
“我应该立即这样做，”海王星回答道，“如果我不是急于避免任何可能让你不高兴的事情的话；因此，现在我想在菲亚西亚船从护航中归来时击毁它。这样他们以后就不能护送人了；我还想把他们的城市埋在一座大山下面。

‘My good friend,’ answered Jove, ‘I should recommend you at the very moment when the people from the city are watching the ship on her way, to turn it into a rock near the land and looking like a ship. This will astonish everybody, and you can then bury their city under the mountain.’
“我的好朋友，”朱庇特回答说，“当城里的人们都在注视着那艘正在航行的船时，我应该建议你把它变成靠近陆地的一块岩石，看起来就像一艘船。这会让所有人震惊，然后你就可以将他们的城市埋在山下。

When earth-encircling Neptune heard this he went to Scheria where the Phaeacians live, and stayed there till the ship, which was making rapid way, had got close in. Then he went up to it, turned it into stone, and drove it down with the flat of his hand so as to root it in the ground. After this he went away.
当环绕地球的海王星听到这个消息时，他去了菲埃克斯人居住的谢里亚，并在那里停留，直到那艘正在快速行驶的船靠近了。然后他走上前去，把它变成了石头，然后把它赶了下去。用手掌将其扎根于地。此后他就走了。

The Phaeacians then began talking among themselves, and one would turn towards his neighbour, saying, ‘Bless my heart, who is it that can have rooted the ship in the sea just as she was getting into port? We could see the whole of her only a moment ago.’
然后，菲亚克斯人开始互相交谈，其中一个人会转向他的邻居说：“上帝保佑我的心，是谁能够在船即将入港时将其扎根在海中？”就在刚才我们还可以看到她的全部。”

This was how they talked, but they knew nothing about it; and Alcinous said, ‘I remember now the old prophecy of my father. He said that Neptune would be angry with us for taking every one so safely over the sea, and would one day wreck a Phaeacian ship as it was returning from an escort, and bury our city under a high mountain. This was what my old father used to say, and now it is all coming true. {117} Now therefore let us all do as I say; in the first place we must leave off giving people escorts when they come here, and in the next let us sacrifice twelve picked bulls to Neptune that he may have mercy upon us, and not bury our city under the high mountain.’ When the people heard this they were afraid and got ready the bulls.
他们就是这样说话的，但他们对此一无所知；阿尔西努斯说：“我现在记起了我父亲的古老预言。”他说，海王星会对我们如此安全地带着所有人穿越大海感到愤怒，有一天，海王星会在护航归来时撞毁一艘菲亚斯船，并将我们的城市埋在一座高山下。这是我老父亲曾经说过的话，现在这一切都实现了。 {117}现在让我们大家都按照我说的去做；首先，我们必须停止在人们来到这里时护送他们，其次，让我们向海王星献上十二头精选的公牛，以便他怜悯我们，不要将我们的城市埋在高山之下。听到这个消息，他们很害怕，并准备了公牛。

Thus did the chiefs and rulers of the Phaeacians pray to king Neptune, standing round his altar; and at the same time {118} Ulysses woke up once more upon his own soil. He had been so long away that he did not know it again; moreover, Jove’s daughter Minerva had made it a foggy day, so that people might not know of his having come, and that she might tell him everything without either his wife or his fellow citizens and friends recognising him {119} until he had taken his revenge upon the wicked suitors. Everything, therefore, seemed quite different to him—the long straight tracks, the harbours, the precipices, and the goodly trees, appeared all changed as he started up and looked upon his native land. So he smote his thighs with the flat of his hands and cried aloud despairingly.
斐阿克人的首领和统治者们就这样站在海神尼普顿的祭坛周围向他祈祷。与此同时{118}尤利西斯在自己的土地上再次醒来。他已经离开太久了，以至于他已经不知道了。此外，朱庇特的女儿密涅瓦把这一天定为大雾天，这样人们就不会知道他来了，她可以告诉他一切，而他的妻子或他的同胞和朋友都不会认出他{119}，直到他带着他的对邪恶的追求者进行报复。因此，一切对他来说都显得完全不同了——当他起身眺望自己的祖国时，那条笔直的小路、港口、悬崖峭壁和美丽的树木都发生了变化。于是他用手掌拍打自己的大腿，绝望地放声大哭。

‘Alas,’ he exclaimed, ‘among what manner of people am I fallen? Are they savage and uncivilised or hospitable and humane? Where shall I put all this treasure, and which way shall I go? I wish I had staid over there with the Phaeacians; or I could have gone to some other great chief who would have been good to me and given me an escort. As it is I do not know where to put my treasure, and I cannot leave it here for fear somebody else should get hold of it. In good truth the chiefs and rulers of the Phaeacians have not been dealing fairly by me, and have left me in the wrong country; they said they would take me back to Ithaca and they have not done so: may Jove the protector of suppliants chastise them, for he watches over everybody and punishes those who do wrong. Still, I suppose I must count my goods and see if the crew have gone off with any of them.’
“唉，”他惊呼道，“我属于哪类人呢？”他们是野蛮、不文明还是热情好客、人道？我该把这些宝藏放在哪里，又该往哪边走呢？我希望我能和菲埃克斯人一起呆在那里。或者我可以去找其他对我很好并护送我的伟大酋长。事实上，我不知道该把我的宝藏放在哪里，而且我不能把它留在这里，因为担心别人会拿走它。说实话，菲亚西亚人的首领和统治者并没有公平地对待我，他们把我留在了错误的国家。他们说要把我带回伊萨卡，但他们没有这样做：愿恳求者的保护者朱庇特惩罚他们，因为他监视着所有人并惩罚那些做错事的人。不过，我想我必须清点我的货物，看看船员们是否带走了其中任何一件。

He counted his goodly coppers and cauldrons, his gold and all his clothes, but there was nothing missing; still he kept grieving about not being in his own country, and wandered up and down by the shore of the sounding sea bewailing his hard fate. Then Minerva came up to him disguised as a young shepherd of delicate and princely mien, with a good cloak folded double about her shoulders; she had sandals on her comely feet and held a javelin in her hand. Ulysses was glad when he saw her, and went straight up to her.
他数了数他的好铜器、大锅、金子和所有的衣服，但没有丢失任何东西；但他仍然为不在自己的祖国而悲伤，在波涛汹涌的海边徘徊，哀叹自己的悲惨命运。然后米勒娃来到他面前，打扮成一位年轻的牧羊人，有着精致而高贵的气质，肩上披着一件漂亮的斗篷。她漂亮的脚上穿着凉鞋，手里拿着标枪。尤利西斯看到她很高兴，径直走到她面前。

‘My friend,’ said he, ‘you are the first person whom I have met with in this country; I salute you, therefore, and beg you to be well disposed towards me. Protect these my goods, and myself too, for I embrace your knees and pray to you as though you were a god. Tell me, then, and tell me truly, what land and country is this? Who are its inhabitants? Am I on an island, or is this the sea board of some continent?’
“我的朋友，”他说，“你是我在这个国家见到的第一个人；因此，我向您致敬，并请求您善待我。保护这些我的财产，也保护我自己，因为我拥抱你的膝盖并向你祈祷，就像你是神一样。那么请告诉我，老实告诉我，这是什么土地、什么国家？它的居民是谁？我是在一座岛上，还是某个大陆的海岸？

Minerva answered, ‘Stranger, you must be very simple, or must have come from somewhere a long way off, not to know what country this is. It is a very celebrated place, and everybody knows it East and West. It is rugged and not a good driving country, but it is by no means a bad island for what there is of it. It grows any quantity of corn and also wine, for it is watered both by rain and dew; it breeds cattle also and goats; all kinds of timber grow here, and there are watering places where the water never runs dry; so, sir, the name of Ithaca is known even as far as Troy, which I understand to be a long way off from this Achaean country.’
密涅瓦回答说：“陌生人，你一定很单纯，或者一定是从很远的地方来，不知道这是哪个国家。”这是一个非常著名的地方，东方和西方的每个人都知道它。它崎岖不平，不适合驾车行驶，但就其本身的情况而言，它绝不是一个糟糕的岛屿。它种植任意数量的玉米和葡萄酒，因为它受到雨水和露水的浇灌。它还饲养牛和山羊；这里生长着各种木材，还有水源不竭的水源。因此，先生，伊萨卡的名字甚至远至特洛伊都广为人知，据我所知，特洛伊距离这个亚该亚国家很远。

Ulysses was glad at finding himself, as Minerva told him, in his own country, and he began to answer, but he did not speak the truth, and made up a lying story in the instinctive wiliness of his heart.
正如密涅瓦告诉他的那样，尤利西斯很高兴发现自己回到了自己的国家，他开始回答，但他没有说真话，而是凭着内心本能的狡诈编造了一个谎言。

‘I heard of Ithaca,’ said he, ‘when I was in Crete beyond the seas, and now it seems I have reached it with all these treasures. I have left as much more behind me for my children, but am flying because I killed Orsilochus son of Idomeneus, the fleetest runner in Crete. I killed him because he wanted to rob me of the spoils I had got from Troy with so much trouble and danger both on the field of battle and by the waves of the weary sea; he said I had not served his father loyally at Troy as vassal, but had set myself up as an independent ruler, so I lay in wait for him with one of my followers by the road side, and speared him as he was coming into town from the country. It was a very dark night and nobody saw us; it was not known, therefore, that I had killed him, but as soon as I had done so I went to a ship and besought the owners, who were Phoenicians, to take me on board and set me in Pylos or in Elis where the Epeans rule, giving them as much spoil as satisfied them. They meant no guile, but the wind drove them off their course, and we sailed on till we came hither by night. It was all we could do to get inside the harbour, and none of us said a word about supper though we wanted it badly, but we all went on shore and lay down just as we were. I was very tired and fell asleep directly, so they took my goods out of the ship, and placed them beside me where I was lying upon the sand. Then they sailed away to Sidonia, and I was left here in great distress of mind.’
“我听说过伊萨卡岛，”他说，“当我在大洋彼岸的克里特岛时，现在看来我已经带着所有这些宝藏到达了那里。我为我的孩子们留下了同样多的东西，但我之所以飞翔，是因为我杀死了伊多墨纽斯的儿子奥尔西洛科斯，他是克里特岛最快的赛跑者。我杀了他，因为他想夺走我从特洛伊获得的战利品，无论是在战场上还是在疲倦的大海上，经历了那么多的麻烦和危险；他说我没有在特洛伊作为封臣忠诚地侍奉他的父亲，而是把自己定位为一个独立的统治者，所以我和我的一名追随者在路边埋伏着他，并在他进城时用矛刺伤了他来自国家。那是一个非常漆黑的夜晚，没有人看到我们；因此，没人知道我杀了他，但我一杀了他，就上了一艘船，恳求船主（腓尼基人）带我上船，把我安置在皮洛斯或伊利斯，那里是伊皮安人统治着，给他们多少战利品，就给他们多少满足。他们没有恶意，但是风把他们吹离了航线，我们继续航行，直到晚上到达这里。我们所能做的就是进入港口，尽管我们非常想吃晚饭，但我们谁也没有说一句话，但我们都上了岸，就这样躺了下来。我很累，直接就睡着了，他们就把我的东西从船上拿出来，放在我躺在沙滩上的旁边。然后他们乘船前往西多尼亚，我被留在这里，心情非常痛苦。

Such was his story, but Minerva smiled and caressed him with her hand. Then she took the form of a woman, fair, stately, and wise, ‘He must be indeed a shifty lying fellow,’ said she, ‘who could surpass you in all manner of craft even though you had a god for your antagonist. Dare devil that you are, full of guile, unwearying in deceit, can you not drop your tricks and your instinctive falsehood, even now that you are in your own country again? We will say no more, however, about this, for we can both of us deceive upon occasion—you are the most accomplished counsellor and orator among all mankind, while I for diplomacy and subtlety have no equal among the gods. Did you not know Jove’s daughter Minerva—me, who have been ever with you, who kept watch over you in all your troubles, and who made the Phaeacians take so great a liking to you? And now, again, I am come here to talk things over with you, and help you to hide the treasure I made the Phaeacians give you; I want to tell you about the troubles that await you in your own house; you have got to face them, but tell no one, neither man nor woman, that you have come home again. Bear everything, and put up with every man’s insolence, without a word.’
这就是他的故事，但米勒娃微笑着用手抚摸着他。然后她变成了一个女人的形象，美丽，庄严，聪明，“他一定是一个狡猾的骗子，”她说，“尽管你有一个对手是神，但他在各方面都可以超越你。”你真是个魔鬼，充满诡计，不厌其烦地欺骗，即使现在你又回到了自己的国家，你还能不放弃你的诡计和本能的谎言吗？不过，我们对此不再多说，因为我们俩有时都会欺骗——你是全人类中最有成就的谋士和演说家，而我的外交和狡猾在众神中无与伦比。你难道不认识朱庇特的女儿密涅瓦吗？我一直与你同在，在你遇到困难时一直守护着你，让斐阿克人如此喜爱你？现在，我再次来到这里与你讨论事情，并帮助你隐藏我让斐阿克人给你的宝藏；我想告诉你在你自己家里等待着你的麻烦；你必须面对他们，但不要告诉任何人，无论是男人还是女人，你又回家了。忍受一切，忍受每个人的无礼，一言不发。

And Ulysses answered, ‘A man, goddess, may know a great deal, but you are so constantly changing your appearance that when he meets you it is a hard matter for him to know whether it is you or not. This much, however, I know exceedingly well; you were very kind to me as long as we Achaeans were fighting before Troy, but from the day on which we went on board ship after having sacked the city of Priam, and heaven dispersed us—from that day, Minerva, I saw no more of you, and cannot ever remember your coming to my ship to help me in a difficulty; I had to wander on sick and sorry till the gods delivered me from evil and I reached the city of the Phaeacians, where you encouraged me and took me into the town. {120} And now, I beseech you in your father’s name, tell me the truth, for I do not believe I am really back in Ithaca. I am in some other country and you are mocking me and deceiving me in all you have been saying. Tell me then truly, have I really got back to my own country?’
尤利西斯回答说：“一个男人，女神，可能知道很多，但你总是不断地改变你的外表，当他遇见你时，他很难知道那是不是你。”然而，我非常清楚这一点。自从我们亚该亚人在特洛伊城前作战的时候，你就对我很好，但是从我们洗劫了普里阿摩斯城并上船那天起，上天驱散了我们——从那天起，密涅瓦，我再也见不到了。我不记得你来到我的船上帮助我度过难关；我不得不在病痛和悲伤中徘徊，直到诸神将我从邪恶中解救出来，我到达了费埃克斯人的城市，在那里你鼓励我并带我进城。 {120}现在，我以你父亲的名义恳求你告诉我真相，因为我不相信我真的回到了伊萨卡。我在另一个国家，你所说的一切都是在嘲笑我、欺骗我。那你老实告诉我，我真的回到自己的国家了吗？

‘You are always taking something of that sort in your head,’ replied Minerva, ‘and that is why I cannot desert you in your afflictions; you are so plausible, shrewd and shifty. Any one but yourself on returning from so long a voyage would at once have gone home to see his wife and children, but you do not seem to care about asking after them or hearing any news about them till you have exploited your wife, who remains at home vainly grieving for you, and having no peace night or day for the tears she sheds on your behalf. As for my not coming near you, I was never uneasy about you, for I was certain you would get back safely though you would lose all your men, and I did not wish to quarrel with my uncle Neptune, who never forgave you for having blinded his son. {121} I will now, however, point out to you the lie of the land, and you will then perhaps believe me. This is the haven of the old merman Phorcys, and here is the olive tree that grows at the head of it; [near it is the cave sacred to the Naiads;] {122} here too is the overarching cavern in which you have offered many an acceptable hecatomb to the nymphs, and this is the wooded mountain Neritum.’
“你的脑子里总是有这样的东西，”密涅瓦回答道，“这就是为什么我不能在你的痛苦中抛弃你；你是那么的可信、精明、狡猾。除了你自己以外，任何人在长途旅行归来后都会立即回家看望他的妻子和孩子，但你似乎并不关心询问他们的情况或听到有关他们的任何消息，直到你剥削了你的妻子，她仍然存在。在家徒劳地为你悲伤，为你流泪而日夜不得安宁。至于我没有靠近你，我从来没有为你感到不安，因为我确信你会安全回来，尽管你会失去所有的人，而且我不想和我的叔叔海王星争吵，他从来没有原谅过你弄瞎了他儿子的眼睛。 {121} 然而，我现在要向你指出这片土地的谎言，然后你也许就会相信我。这里是老人鱼福尔库斯的港口，这里长着橄榄树。 [在它附近是水仙女神圣的洞穴;] {122}这里也是一个包罗万象的洞穴，您在其中为仙女们提供了许多可接受的hecatomb，这就是树木繁茂的Neritum山。

As she spoke the goddess dispersed the mist and the land appeared. Then Ulysses rejoiced at finding himself again in his own land, and kissed the bounteous soil; he lifted up his hands and prayed to the nymphs, saying, ‘Naiad nymphs, daughters of Jove, I made sure that I was never again to see you, now therefore I greet you with all loving salutations, and I will bring you offerings as in the old days, if Jove’s redoubtable daughter will grant me life, and bring my son to manhood.’
女神说话的同时驱散了迷雾，大地出现了。尤利西斯高兴地发现自己又回到了自己的土地，亲吻了这片肥沃的土地。他举起双手，向仙女们祈祷，说道：“天神仙女们，朱庇特的女儿们，我确信我再也见不到你们了，所以现在我以所有充满爱意的问候向你们致意，我会给你们带来祭品，在过去，如果朱庇特令人敬畏的女儿赐予我生命，让我的儿子成年的话。

‘Take heart, and do not trouble yourself about that,’ rejoined Minerva, ‘let us rather set about stowing your things at once in the cave, where they will be quite safe. Let us see how we can best manage it all.’
“放心吧，别为此烦恼，”米勒娃回答道，“让我们立即把你的东西存放到山洞里，那里会很安全。”让我们看看如何才能最好地管理这一切。

Therewith she went down into the cave to look for the safest hiding places, while Ulysses brought up all the treasure of gold, bronze, and good clothing which the Phaeacians had given him. They stowed everything carefully away, and Minerva set a stone against the door of the cave. Then the two sat down by the root of the great olive, and consulted how to compass the destruction of the wicked suitors.
于是，她下到山洞里寻找最安全的藏身之处，而尤利西斯则带出了菲埃西亚人送给他的所有金子、青铜和好衣服的宝藏。他们小心翼翼地把所有东西都收起来，密涅瓦在洞门上放了一块石头。然后两人坐在大橄榄树下，商量如何消灭那些邪恶的求婚者。

‘Ulysses,’ said Minerva, ‘noble son of Laertes, think how you can lay hands on these disreputable people who have been lording it in your house these three years, courting your wife and making wedding presents to her, while she does nothing but lament your absence, giving hope and sending encouraging messages {123} to every one of them, but meaning the very opposite of all she says.’
“尤利西斯，”密涅瓦说，雷欧提斯的高贵儿子，想想你怎么能对这些声名狼藉的人下手，他们三年来一直在你家里称王称霸，向你的妻子求爱，给她送结婚礼物，而她却什么也不做。哀叹你的缺席，给他们每个人带来希望并发送鼓励的信息{123}，但意思与她所说的完全相反。”

And Ulysses answered, ‘In good truth, goddess, it seems I should have come to much the same bad end in my own house as Agamemnon did, if you had not given me such timely information. Advise me how I shall best avenge myself. Stand by my side and put your courage into my heart as on the day when we loosed Troy’s fair diadem from her brow. Help me now as you did then, and I will fight three hundred men, if you, goddess, will be with me.’
尤利西斯回答道：“说实话，女神，如果你没有给我如此及时的信息，我在自己家里的结局似乎也会像阿伽门农一样糟糕。”请告诉我如何最好地为自己报仇。站在我身边，把你的勇气注入我的心中，就像我们从特洛伊额头上摘下美丽王冠的那一天一样。现在就像你当时那样帮助我，如果你，女神，愿意和我在一起，我将与三百人战斗。

‘Trust me for that,’ said she, ‘I will not lose sight of you when once we set about it, and I imagine that some of those who are devouring your substance will then bespatter the pavement with their blood and brains. I will begin by disguising you so that no human being shall know you; I will cover your body with wrinkles; you shall lose all your yellow hair; I will clothe you in a garment that shall fill all who see it with loathing; I will blear your fine eyes for you, and make you an unseemly object in the sight of the suitors, of your wife, and of the son whom you left behind you. Then go at once to the swineherd who is in charge of your pigs; he has been always well affected towards you, and is devoted to Penelope and your son; you will find him feeding his pigs near the rock that is called Raven {124} by the fountain Arethusa, where they are fattening on beechmast and spring water after their manner. Stay with him and find out how things are going, while I proceed to Sparta and see your son, who is with Menelaus at Lacedaemon, where he has gone to try and find out whether you are still alive.’ {125}
“相信我，”她说，“一旦我们开始行动，我就不会失去你的视线，我想那些吞噬你物质的人将会把他们的血和脑浆溅到人行道上。首先我将把你伪装起来，这样就没有人会认识你；我会让你的身体布满皱纹；你将失去所有的黄头发；我会给你穿上一件让所有看到它的人都感到厌恶的衣服；我会为你弄瞎你美丽的眼睛，让你成为求婚者、你妻子和你留下的儿子眼中不合时宜的对象。然后立即去找负责看管你的猪的猪倌；他一直对你很好，并且对佩内洛普和你的儿子很忠诚；你会发现他在Arethusa喷泉旁一块被称为乌鸦{124}的岩石附近喂猪，它们在那里按照自己的方式用山毛榉和泉水养肥。留在他身边，了解事情进展如何，而我则前往斯巴达去见你的儿子，他和墨涅拉俄斯一起在拉栖代梦，他去那里试图查明你是否还活着。”{125}

‘But why,’ said Ulysses, ‘did you not tell him, for you knew all about it? Did you want him too to go sailing about amid all kinds of hardship while others are eating up his estate?’
“但是，”尤利西斯说，“你为什么不告诉他，因为你知道这一切呢？难道你想让他也在各种苦难中四处漂泊，而其他人却在蚕食他的财产吗？

Minerva answered, ‘Never mind about him, I sent him that he might be well spoken of for having gone. He is in no sort of difficulty, but is staying quite comfortably with Menelaus, and is surrounded with abundance of every kind. The suitors have put out to sea and are lying in wait for him, for they mean to kill him before he can get home. I do not much think they will succeed, but rather that some of those who are now eating up your estate will first find a grave themselves.’
密涅瓦回答说：“别管他，我派他去是为了让他离开后可以得到很好的评价。”他没有遇到任何困难，但与墨涅拉俄斯相处得很舒服，周围充满了各种各样的东西。追求者们已经出海等待他，因为他们打算在他回家之前杀死他。我不太认为他们会成功，但更确切地说，那些现在正在吞噬你财产的人首先会找到自己的坟墓。

As she spoke Minerva touched him with her wand and covered him with wrinkles, took away all his yellow hair, and withered the flesh over his whole body; she bleared his eyes, which were naturally very fine ones; she changed his clothes and threw an old rag of a wrap about him, and a tunic, tattered, filthy, and begrimed with smoke; she also gave him an undressed deer skin as an outer garment, and furnished him with a staff and a wallet all in holes, with a twisted thong for him to sling it over his shoulder.
说话的时候，米勒娃用魔杖触碰了他，让他布满了皱纹，扯掉了他所有的黄毛，让他全身的肉都枯萎了。她模糊了他的眼睛，他的眼睛本来就很漂亮。她给他换了衣服，给他披上一条旧破布裹身布，还有一件又破又脏、被烟熏得脏兮兮的束腰外衣。她还给了他一张未穿的鹿皮作为外衣，并给了他一根手杖和一个破了洞的钱包，还有一条扭曲的皮带让他把它挂在肩上。

When the pair had thus laid their plans they parted, and the goddess went straight to Lacedaemon to fetch Telemachus.
当两人制定好计划后，他们就分手了，女神直接前往拉栖代梦去接忒勒马科斯。

BOOK XIV
第十四册

ULYSSES IN THE HUT WITH EUMAEUS.
尤利西斯和尤迈乌斯在小屋里。

Ulysses now left the haven, and took the rough track up through the wooded country and over the crest of the mountain till he reached the place where Minerva had said that he would find the swineherd, who was the most thrifty servant he had. He found him sitting in front of his hut, which was by the yards that he had built on a site which could be seen from far. He had made them spacious {126} and fair to see, with a free run for the pigs all round them; he had built them during his master’s absence, of stones which he had gathered out of the ground, without saying anything to Penelope or Laertes, and he had fenced them on top with thorn bushes. Outside the yard he had run a strong fence of oaken posts, split, and set pretty close together, while inside he had built twelve styes near one another for the sows to lie in. There were fifty pigs wallowing in each stye, all of them breeding sows; but the boars slept outside and were much fewer in number, for the suitors kept on eating them, and the swineherd had to send them the best he had continually. There were three hundred and sixty boar pigs, and the herdsman’s four hounds, which were as fierce as wolves, slept always with them. The swineherd was at that moment cutting out a pair of sandals {127} from a good stout ox hide. Three of his men were out herding the pigs in one place or another, and he had sent the fourth to town with a boar that he had been forced to send the suitors that they might sacrifice it and have their fill of meat.
尤利西斯现在离开了避难所，沿着崎岖的小路穿过树木繁茂的乡村，越过山顶，直到到达密涅瓦所说的他会找到猪倌的地方，猪倌是他手下最节俭的仆人。他发现他坐在自己的小屋前，小屋就在他建在一个从很远的地方就可以看到的地方。他把它们弄得很宽敞{126}而且看起来很漂亮，周围的猪可以自由奔跑。他是在主人不在的时候用从地里捡来的石头建造的，没有对佩内洛普或莱尔提斯说任何话，并用荆棘丛将它们围在顶部。在院子外面，他用橡木柱子筑起了一道坚固的栅栏，栅栏被劈开，并非常紧密地排列在一起，而在院子里面，他又建造了十二个猪圈，彼此相邻，供母猪躺在里面。每个猪圈里有五十头猪在打滚，所有的猪都在里面打滚。种母猪；但野猪睡在外面，数量也少得多，因为求婚者不断地吃它们，猪倌不得不不断地把最好的东西送给它们。野猪有三百六十头，牧人的四只猎犬凶猛如狼，常与它们同眠。这时，猪倌正在用一张结实的牛皮剪出一双凉鞋{127}。他的三个手下正在某个地方放猪，他派第四个手下带着一头野猪进城，他被迫把这头野猪送给求婚者，以便他们可以牺牲它并吃饱肉。

When the hounds saw Ulysses they set up a furious barking and flew at him, but Ulysses was cunning enough to sit down and loose his hold of the stick that he had in his hand: still, he would have been torn by them in his own homestead had not the swineherd dropped his ox hide, rushed full speed through the gate of the yard and driven the dogs off by shouting and throwing stones at them. Then he said to Ulysses, ‘Old man, the dogs were likely to have made short work of you, and then you would have got me into trouble. The gods have given me quite enough worries without that, for I have lost the best of masters, and am in continual grief on his account. I have to attend swine for other people to eat, while he, if he yet lives to see the light of day, is starving in some distant land. But come inside, and when you have had your fill of bread and wine, tell me where you come from, and all about your misfortunes.’
当猎犬们看到尤利西斯时，它们猛烈地狂吠并向他扑去，但尤利西斯很狡猾，坐下来松开了手中的棍子：尽管如此，他还是会被他们撕碎。猪倌还没丢下牛皮，就全速冲进院门，一边大喊大叫，一边扔石头，把狗赶走了。然后他对尤利西斯说：“老头子，那些狗很可能很快就会把你干掉，然后你就会给我带来麻烦。”如果没有这些，众神已经给了我足够的忧虑，因为我失去了最好的主人，并且为他而持续悲伤。我必须照顾猪供其他人吃，而他，如果他还活着，已经在遥远的地方挨饿了。但是进来吧，当你吃饱了面包和酒后，请告诉我你从哪里来，以及所有关于你的不幸的事情。

On this the swineherd led the way into the hut and bade him sit down. He strewed a good thick bed of rushes upon the floor, and on the top of this he threw the shaggy chamois skin—a great thick one—on which he used to sleep by night. Ulysses was pleased at being made thus welcome, and said ‘May Jove, sir, and the rest of the gods grant you your heart’s desire in return for the kind way in which you have received me.’
猪倌听了这话，领着他走进小屋，请他坐下。他在地板上铺了一张厚厚的灯心草床，在上面又铺上了蓬松的麂皮——好厚的一张——他晚上就睡在上面。尤利西斯很高兴受到这样的欢迎，他说：“先生，愿朱庇特和其他众神满足您的愿望，作为对您热情接待我的回报。”

To this you answered, O swineherd Eumaeus, ‘Stranger, though a still poorer man should come here, it would not be right for me to insult him, for all strangers and beggars are from Jove. You must take what you can get and be thankful, for servants live in fear when they have young lords for their masters; and this is my misfortune now, for heaven has hindered the return of him who would have been always good to me and given me something of my own—a house, a piece of land, a good looking wife, and all else that a liberal master allows a servant who has worked hard for him, and whose labour the gods have prospered as they have mine in the situation which I hold. If my master had grown old here he would have done great things by me, but he is gone, and I wish that Helen’s whole race were utterly destroyed, for she has been the death of many a good man. It was this matter that took my master to Ilius, the land of noble steeds, to fight the Trojans in the cause of king Agamemnon.’
猪倌尤迈乌斯啊，你对此回答道：“陌生人，虽然一个更穷的人来到这里，但我侮辱他是不对的，因为所有的陌生人和乞丐都来自朱庇特。”你必须接受你能得到的东西，并且心存感激，因为当仆人有年轻的主人做主人时，他们会生活在恐惧之中。现在这就是我的不幸，因为上天阻止了他的回归，他本来一直对我很好，并给了我自己的东西——一栋房子，一块土地，一个漂亮的妻子，以及自由主义者所拥有的一切。主人允许一个为他辛勤工作的仆人，而诸神在我所处的境况下，也让他的劳动繁荣昌盛，正如他们对我的劳动一样。如果我的主人在这里老了，他会为我做伟大的事情，但他走了，我希望海伦的整个种族被彻底毁灭，因为她已经杀死了许多好人。正是因为这件事，我的主人来到了伊利乌斯，那片高贵骏马的土地，为阿伽门农国王的事业与特洛伊人作战。

As he spoke he bound his girdle round him and went to the styes where the young sucking pigs were penned. He picked out two which he brought back with him and sacrificed. He singed them, cut them up, and spitted them; when the meat was cooked he brought it all in and set it before Ulysses, hot and still on the spit, whereon Ulysses sprinkled it over with white barley meal. The swineherd then mixed wine in a bowl of ivy-wood, and taking a seat opposite Ulysses told him to begin.
他一边说着，一边束上腰带，走到圈养小乳猪的猪圈处。他挑选了两个带回来并牺牲了。他把它们烧焦，切碎，然后吐掉。肉煮熟后，他把所有的肉都放进去，放在尤利西斯面前，肉还热腾腾地放在烤叉上，尤利西斯在上面撒上白大麦粉。然后，猪倌在一碗常春藤木中混合了葡萄酒，并在尤利西斯对面坐下，让他开始。

‘Fall to, stranger,’ said he, ‘on a dish of servant’s pork. The fat pigs have to go to the suitors, who eat them up without shame or scruple; but the blessed gods love not such shameful doings, and respect those who do what is lawful and right. Even the fierce freebooters who go raiding on other people’s land, and Jove gives them their spoil—even they, when they have filled their ships and got home again live conscience-stricken, and look fearfully for judgement; but some god seems to have told these people that Ulysses is dead and gone; they will not, therefore, go back to their own homes and make their offers of marriage in the usual way, but waste his estate by force, without fear or stint. Not a day or night comes out of heaven, but they sacrifice not one victim nor two only, and they take the run of his wine, for he was exceedingly rich. No other great man either in Ithaca or on the mainland is as rich as he was; he had as much as twenty men put together. I will tell you what he had. There are twelve herds of cattle upon the main land, and as many flocks of sheep, there are also twelve droves of pigs, while his own men and hired strangers feed him twelve widely spreading herds of goats. Here in Ithaca he runs even large flocks of goats on the far end of the island, and they are in the charge of excellent goat herds. Each one of these sends the suitors the best goat in the flock every day. As for myself, I am in charge of the pigs that you see here, and I have to keep picking out the best I have and sending it to them.’
“来吧，陌生人，”他说，“吃一盘仆人的猪肉。”肥猪要去找追求者，追求者毫无羞耻、毫无顾忌地吃掉它们；但受祝福的诸神不喜欢这种可耻的行为，并尊重那些做合法和正确的事情的人。即使是凶猛的强盗，他们去掠夺别人的土地，而朱庇特把他们的战利品给了他们——甚至他们，当他们装满船只并再次回家时，也生活在良心谴责中，并恐惧地期待着审判；甚至他们，当他们装满他们的船并再次回家时，他们也生活在良心的谴责中，并恐惧地期待着审判；甚至他们，当他们装满他们的船并再次回家时，他们也生活在良心谴责中，并恐惧地期待着审判；甚至他们，当他们装满他们的船并再次回家时，他们也生活在良心谴责中，并恐惧地期待着审判。但似乎有某个神告诉这些人尤利西斯已经死了。因此，他们不会像平常那样回到自己的家中求婚，而是毫无畏惧、毫无节制地用武力浪费他的财产。没有一天或一夜是天上来的，但他们牺牲的不是一个或两个牺牲品，他们也喝了他的酒，因为他非常富有。无论是伊萨卡岛还是大陆上，没有其他伟人像他一样富有。他总共有二十个人。我会告诉你他有什么。大陆上有十二群牛，有同样多的羊群，也有十二群猪，而他自己的人和雇佣的陌生人则喂养他十二群分布广泛的山羊。在伊萨卡，他甚至在岛的远端饲养着大群山羊，它们负责管理优秀的山羊群。每一只山羊每天都会向追求者送去羊群中最好的山羊。至于我自己，我负责管理你在这里看到的猪，我必须不断挑选出我拥有的最好的猪并将其发送给它们。

This was his story, but Ulysses went on eating and drinking ravenously without a word, brooding his revenge. When he had eaten enough and was satisfied, the swineherd took the bowl from which he usually drank, filled it with wine, and gave it to Ulysses, who was pleased, and said as he took it in his hands, ‘My friend, who was this master of yours that bought you and paid for you, so rich and so powerful as you tell me? You say he perished in the cause of King Agamemnon; tell me who he was, in case I may have met with such a person. Jove and the other gods know, but I may be able to give you news of him, for I have travelled much.’
这是他的故事，但尤利西斯一言不发地继续大吃大喝，盘算着他的复仇。吃饱了，心满意足了，猪倌拿起他平时喝酒的碗，盛满了酒，递给尤利西斯，尤利西斯高兴地接过酒杯，说道：“我的朋友，你这个买下你、花钱买下你的主人，是不是像你告诉我的那样有钱有势？你说他死于阿伽门农国王的事业；告诉我他是谁，以防我遇到这样的人。朱庇特和其他神明都知道，但我也许可以告诉你他的消息，因为我已经旅行了很多地方。

Eumaeus answered, ‘Old man, no traveller who comes here with news will get Ulysses’ wife and son to believe his story. Nevertheless, tramps in want of a lodging keep coming with their mouths full of lies, and not a word of truth; every one who finds his way to Ithaca goes to my mistress and tells her falsehoods, whereon she takes them in, makes much of them, and asks them all manner of questions, crying all the time as women will when they have lost their husbands. And you too, old man, for a shirt and a cloak would doubtless make up a very pretty story. But the wolves and birds of prey have long since torn Ulysses to pieces, or the fishes of the sea have eaten him, and his bones are lying buried deep in sand upon some foreign shore; he is dead and gone, and a bad business it is for all his friends—for me especially; go where I may I shall never find so good a master, not even if I were to go home to my mother and father where I was bred and born. I do not so much care, however, about my parents now, though I should dearly like to see them again in my own country; it is the loss of Ulysses that grieves me most; I cannot speak of him without reverence though he is here no longer, for he was very fond of me, and took such care of me that wherever he may be I shall always honour his memory.’
尤迈乌斯回答说：“老头子，没有哪个旅行者带着消息来到这里，让尤利西斯的妻子和儿子相信他的故事。”然而，寻找住所的流浪汉却不断地来到，他们满嘴谎言，没有一句真话。每个找到去伊萨卡岛的人都会去找我的情妇，向她讲述谎言，她接受了这些谎言，大肆嘲笑它们，并向他们提出各种各样的问题，一直哭泣，就像女人失去丈夫时一样。老头子，你也一样，一件衬衫和一件斗篷无疑会构成一个非常美丽的故事。但狼和猛禽早已将尤利西斯撕成碎片，或者被海里的鱼吃掉了，他的骨头被深埋在异国海岸的沙子里；他死了，走了，这对他所有的朋友来说都是一件坏事——尤其是对我来说；无论我走到哪里，我都找不到这么好的师傅，即使我回到养育我和出生我的父母身边也找不到。然而，我现在不太关心我的父母，尽管我非常想在自己的国家再次见到他们。最让我悲伤的是失去《尤利西斯》。尽管他已经不在了，但我在谈论他时仍不能不怀敬意，因为他非常喜欢我，并且如此照顾我，无论他在哪里，我都会永远纪念他。

‘My friend,’ replied Ulysses, ‘you are very positive, and very hard of belief about your master’s coming home again, nevertheless I will not merely say, but will swear, that he is coming. Do not give me anything for my news till he has actually come, you may then give me a shirt and cloak of good wear if you will. I am in great want, but I will not take anything at all till then, for I hate a man, even as I hate hell fire, who lets his poverty tempt him into lying. I swear by king Jove, by the rites of hospitality, and by that hearth of Ulysses to which I have now come, that all will surely happen as I have said it will. Ulysses will return in this self same year; with the end of this moon and the beginning of the next he will be here to do vengeance on all those who are ill treating his wife and son.’
“我的朋友，”尤利西斯回答道，“你非常肯定，也很难相信你的主人会再次回家，但我不仅会说，而且会发誓，他会回来。”在他真正来之前，不要给我任何消息，如果你愿意的话，你可以给我一件好穿的衬衫和斗篷。我非常缺乏，但在那之前我不会拿任何东西，因为我恨一个人，就像我恨地狱之火一样，让他的贫穷引诱他说谎。我以朱庇特国王的名义，以热情好客的仪式，以我现在来到的尤利西斯的壁炉发誓，一切都一定会按照我所说的那样发生。尤利西斯将于同年回归；这个月末和下个月初，他将在这里向所有虐待他妻子和儿子的人报仇。

To this you answered, O swineherd Eumaeus, ‘Old man, you will neither get paid for bringing good news, nor will Ulysses ever come home; drink your wine in peace, and let us talk about something else. Do not keep on reminding me of all this; it always pains me when any one speaks about my honoured master. As for your oath we will let it alone, but I only wish he may come, as do Penelope, his old father Laertes, and his son Telemachus. I am terribly unhappy too about this same boy of his; he was running up fast into manhood, and bade fare to be no worse man, face and figure, than his father, but some one, either god or man, has been unsettling his mind, so he has gone off to Pylos to try and get news of his father, and the suitors are lying in wait for him as he is coming home, in the hope of leaving the house of Arceisius without a name in Ithaca. But let us say no more about him, and leave him to be taken, or else to escape if the son of Saturn holds his hand over him to protect him. And now, old man, tell me your own story; tell me also, for I want to know, who you are and where you come from. Tell me of your town and parents, what manner of ship you came in, how crew brought you to Ithaca, and from what country they professed to come—for you cannot have come by land.’
猪倌尤迈厄斯啊，对此你的回答是：“老头子，你既不会因为带来好消息而得到报酬，尤利西斯也永远不会回家；安静地喝完酒，我们再聊点别的吧。不要一直提醒我这一切；当有人谈论我尊敬的师父时，我总是感到痛苦。至于你的誓言，我们不会去管它，但我只希望他能来，就像佩内洛普、他的老父亲莱尔提斯和他的儿子忒勒马科斯一样。我对他的这个男孩也非常不高兴。他很快就成年了，并发誓要成为一个不比他父亲差的人，无论是面孔还是身材，但是有一个人，无论是神还是人，一直在扰乱他的思想，所以他去了皮洛斯，试图当他得知他父亲的消息时，求婚者们正在等待他回家，他们希望离开阿尔塞西乌斯在伊萨卡岛的家，没有留下任何名字。但让我们不再谈论他，让他被抓住，或者如果土星之子把手放在他身上保护他的话，他就会逃跑。现在，老伙计，告诉我你自己的故事；也请告诉我，因为我想知道，你是谁，你来自哪里。告诉我你的城镇和父母的情况，你乘什么船来的，船员如何把你带到伊萨卡，以及他们自称来自哪个国家——因为你不可能通过陆路来的。

And Ulysses answered, ‘I will tell you all about it. If there were meat and wine enough, and we could stay here in the hut with nothing to do but to eat and drink while the others go to their work, I could easily talk on for a whole twelve months without ever finishing the story of the sorrows with which it has pleased heaven to visit me.
尤利西斯回答说：“我会告诉你这一切。”如果有足够的肉和酒，我们可以呆在小屋里，除了吃喝，而其他人都去工作，我可以轻松地讲整整十二个月，而没有讲完故事。上天高兴地带着悲伤来拜访我。

‘I am by birth a Cretan; my father was a well to do man, who had many sons born in marriage, whereas I was the son of a slave whom he had purchased for a concubine; nevertheless, my father Castor son of Hylax (whose lineage I claim, and who was held in the highest honour among the Cretans for his wealth, prosperity, and the valour of his sons) put me on the same level with my brothers who had been born in wedlock. When, however, death took him to the house of Hades, his sons divided his estate and cast lots for their shares, but to me they gave a holding and little else; nevertheless, my valour enabled me to marry into a rich family, for I was not given to bragging, or shirking on the field of battle. It is all over now; still, if you look at the straw you can see what the ear was, for I have had trouble enough and to spare. Mars and Minerva made me doughty in war; when I had picked my men to surprise the enemy with an ambuscade I never gave death so much as a thought, but was the first to leap forward and spear all whom I could overtake. Such was I in battle, but I did not care about farm work, nor the frugal home life of those who would bring up children. My delight was in ships, fighting, javelins, and arrows—things that most men shudder to think of; but one man likes one thing and another another, and this was what I was most naturally inclined to. Before the Achaeans went to Troy, nine times was I in command of men and ships on foreign service, and I amassed much wealth. I had my pick of the spoil in the first instance, and much more was allotted to me later on.
“我生来就是克里特岛人；我的父亲是一个富裕的人，他有很多婚生儿子，而我是一个奴隶的儿子，是他为妾买来的。尽管如此，我的父亲海拉克斯之子卡斯托尔（我声称他是他的血统，他因他的财富、繁荣和他儿子们的英勇而在克里特岛人中享有最高荣誉）将我与我的兄弟们放在同一水平上。婚生。然而，当死亡将他带到哈迪斯的宫殿时，他的儿子们分割了他的财产，并通过抽签获得了他们的股份，但他们给了我一份财产，除此之外什么也没有。尽管如此，我的勇敢使我能够嫁入一个富裕的家庭，因为我不喜欢在战场上吹牛或逃避。现在一切都结束了；不过，如果你看一下吸管，你就能看出耳朵是什么，因为我已经遇到了足够多的麻烦了。火星和密涅瓦让我在战争中变得勇敢；当我挑选我的部下伏击敌人时，我从来没有考虑过死亡，而是第一个向前跃进，用矛刺向所有我能追上的人。我在战场上就是这样，但我不关心农活，也不关心那些抚养孩子的节俭的家庭生活。我的乐趣在于船只、战斗、标枪和箭——大多数人一想到这些就会不寒而栗；但一个人喜欢一件事，又喜欢另一件事，这就是我最自然的倾向。在亚该亚人前往特洛伊之前，我曾九次指挥人员和船只执行外交任务，积累了大量财富。我一开始就得到了我的战利品，后来又分配给我更多的东西。

‘My house grew apace and I became a great man among the Cretans, but when Jove counselled that terrible expedition, in which so many perished, the people required me and Idomeneus to lead their ships to Troy, and there was no way out of it, for they insisted on our doing so. There we fought for nine whole years, but in the tenth we sacked the city of Priam and sailed home again as heaven dispersed us. Then it was that Jove devised evil against me. I spent but one month happily with my children, wife, and property, and then I conceived the idea of making a descent on Egypt, so I fitted out a fine fleet and manned it. I had nine ships, and the people flocked to fill them. For six days I and my men made feast, and I found them many victims both for sacrifice to the gods and for themselves, but on the seventh day we went on board and set sail from Crete with a fair North wind behind us though we were going down a river. Nothing went ill with any of our ships, and we had no sickness on board, but sat where we were and let the ships go as the wind and steersmen took them. On the fifth day we reached the river Aegyptus; there I stationed my ships in the river, bidding my men stay by them and keep guard over them while I sent out scouts to reconnoitre from every point of vantage.
“我的家族迅速发展，我成为了克里特岛人中的伟人，但是当朱庇特建议进行那场可怕的远征，导致许多人丧生时，人们要求我和伊多墨纽斯带领他们的船只前往特洛伊，而没有出路，因为他们坚持要求我们这样做。我们在那里战斗了整整九年，但在第十年，我们洗劫了普里阿摩斯城，并在上天将我们驱散后再次启航回家。然后，朱庇特就对我设计了邪恶的计划。我只与孩子、妻子和财产幸福地度过了一个月，然后我萌生了前往埃及的想法，所以我装备了一支精良的舰队并配备了人员。我有九艘船，人们蜂拥而至来装满它们。六天以来，我和我的手下一直在盛宴，我发现他们有许多牺牲品，既是为了祭祀诸神，也是为了他们自己，但在第七天，我们登上了船，从克里特岛起航，尽管我们身后有一阵温和的北风，顺流而下。我们的任何一艘船都没有出现任何问题，我们船上也没有生病，但我们只是坐在原地，让船随风和舵手而去。第五天，我们到达了埃及河。我把我的船只驻扎在河里，命令我的人留在他们身边并看守他们，同时我派出侦察兵从各个有利位置进行侦察。

‘But the men disobeyed my orders, took to their own devices, and ravaged the land of the Egyptians, killing the men, and taking their wives and children captive. The alarm was soon carried to the city, and when they heard the war cry, the people came out at daybreak till the plain was filled with horsemen and foot soldiers and with the gleam of armour. Then Jove spread panic among my men, and they would no longer face the enemy, for they found themselves surrounded. The Egyptians killed many of us, and took the rest alive to do forced labour for them. Jove, however, put it in my mind to do thus—and I wish I had died then and there in Egypt instead, for there was much sorrow in store for me—I took off my helmet and shield and dropped my spear from my hand; then I went straight up to the king’s chariot, clasped his knees and kissed them, whereon he spared my life, bade me get into his chariot, and took me weeping to his own home. Many made at me with their ashen spears and tried to kill me in their fury, but the king protected me, for he feared the wrath of Jove the protector of strangers, who punishes those who do evil.
‘但是这些人不听从我的命令，自行其是，蹂躏埃及人的土地，杀害了埃及人，并俘虏了他们的妻子和孩子。警报很快就传到城里，听到战吼，人们天一亮就出来了，直到平原上充满了骑兵和步兵，盔甲闪闪发光。然后朱庇特在我的部下中散布了恐慌，他们不再面对敌人，因为他们发现自己被包围了。埃及人杀死了我们中的许多人，并活捉了其余的人作为他们的苦役。然而，朱庇特让我这么做了——我希望我当时就死在埃及，因为等待着我的将是许多悲伤——我摘下头盔和盾牌，把长矛从手中扔掉。 ;然后我径直走上国王的战车，抱住他的膝盖并亲吻它们，他因此饶了我的命，吩咐我上他的战车，并带着我哭着回到他自己的家。许多人用灰白的长矛攻击我，并试图在愤怒中杀死我，但国王保护了我，因为他害怕陌生人的保护者朱庇特的愤怒，朱庇特会惩罚那些作恶的人。

‘I stayed there for seven years and got together much money among the Egyptians, for they all gave me something; but when it was now going on for eight years there came a certain Phoenician, a cunning rascal, who had already committed all sorts of villainy, and this man talked me over into going with him to Phoenicia, where his house and his possessions lay. I stayed there for a whole twelve months, but at the end of that time when months and days had gone by till the same season had come round again, he set me on board a ship bound for Libya, on a pretence that I was to take a cargo along with him to that place, but really that he might sell me as a slave and take the money I fetched. I suspected his intention, but went on board with him, for I could not help it.
‘我在那里住了七年，在埃及人那里赚了很多钱，因为他们都给了我一些东西；但事情已经持续了八年，来了一个腓尼基人，一个狡猾的流氓，他已经犯下了各种恶行，这个人说服我和他一起去腓尼基，那里有他的房子和财产。我在那儿待了整整十二个月，但到了最后，月复一月又过去了，直到同一个季节再次来临，他把我送上了一艘开往利比亚的船，借口是我要到利比亚去。带着货物去那个地方，但实际上他可能会把我卖为奴隶并拿走我赚来的钱。我怀疑他的意图，但还是跟他一起上了船，因为我无法控制。

‘The ship ran before a fresh North wind till we had reached the sea that lies between Crete and Libya; there, however, Jove counselled their destruction, for as soon as we were well out from Crete and could see nothing but sea and sky, he raised a black cloud over our ship and the sea grew dark beneath it. Then Jove let fly with his thunderbolts and the ship went round and round and was filled with fire and brimstone as the lightning struck it. The men fell all into the sea; they were carried about in the water round the ship looking like so many sea-gulls, but the god presently deprived them of all chance of getting home again. I was all dismayed. Jove, however, sent the ship’s mast within my reach, which saved my life, for I clung to it, and drifted before the fury of the gale. Nine days did I drift but in the darkness of the tenth night a great wave bore me on to the Thesprotian coast. There Pheidon king of the Thesprotians entertained me hospitably without charging me anything at all—for his son found me when I was nearly dead with cold and fatigue, whereon he raised me by the hand, took me to his father’s house and gave me clothes to wear.
“船迎着清新的北风行驶，直到我们到达克里特岛和利比亚之间的海域；然而，在那里，朱庇特建议毁灭他们，因为当我们离开克里特岛，除了大海和天空什么也看不见时，他在我们的船上升起一片乌云，下面的大海变得黑暗。然后朱庇特发出雷电，船不停地旋转，闪电击中时，船里充满了火焰和硫磺。那些人都掉进了海里；他们在船周围的水里飞来飞去，看起来像许多海鸥，但上帝很快就剥夺了他们再次回家的机会。我很沮丧。然而，朱庇特把船的桅杆送到了我的触手可及的地方，这救了我的命，因为我紧紧抓住它，在狂风中漂流。我漂流了九天，但在第十个夜晚的黑暗中，一股巨浪把我带到了塞斯普罗提亚海岸。在那里，塞斯普罗提斯国王费东热情款待了我，没有向我收取任何费用——因为当我因寒冷和疲劳而几乎死去时，他的儿子发现了我，他拉着我的手，把我带到他父亲的家里，并给了我衣服。穿。

‘There it was that I heard news of Ulysses, for the king told me he had entertained him, and shown him much hospitality while he was on his homeward journey. He showed me also the treasure of gold, and wrought iron that Ulysses had got together. There was enough to keep his family for ten generations, so much had he left in the house of king Pheidon. But the king said Ulysses had gone to Dodona that he might learn Jove’s mind from the god’s high oak tree, and know whether after so long an absence he should return to Ithaca openly, or in secret. Moreover the king swore in my presence, making drink-offerings in his own house as he did so, that the ship was by the water side, and the crew found, that should take him to his own country. He sent me off however before Ulysses returned, for there happened to be a Thesprotian ship sailing for the wheat-growing island of Dulichium, and he told those in charge of her to be sure and take me safely to King Acastus.
“在那里，我听到了尤利西斯的消息，因为国王告诉我，他在回家的路上招待了他，并热情款待了他。他还向我展示了尤利西斯收集到的黄金和锻铁宝藏。这些钱足以维持他的家族十代人的生活，他在菲顿国王的家里留下的东西就这么多了。但国王说尤利西斯去了多多纳，他可以从朱庇特的高大橡树上了解他的想法，并知道在离开这么久之后他是否应该公开或秘密返回伊萨卡。此外，国王在我面前发誓，同时在他自己的家里举行奠祭，船在水边，船员们发现了，应该带他去他自己的国家。然而，在尤利西斯回来之前，他把我送走了，因为恰巧有一艘塞斯普罗提斯船正驶向种植小麦的杜利奇乌姆岛，他告诉那些负责她的人一定要带我安全地去见阿卡斯托斯国王。

‘These men hatched a plot against me that would have reduced me to the very extreme of misery, for when the ship had got some way out from land they resolved on selling me as a slave. They stripped me of the shirt and cloak that I was wearing, and gave me instead the tattered old clouts in which you now see me; then, towards nightfall, they reached the tilled lands of Ithaca, and there they bound me with a strong rope fast in the ship, while they went on shore to get supper by the sea side. But the gods soon undid my bonds for me, and having drawn my rags over my head I slid down the rudder into the sea, where I struck out and swam till I was well clear of them, and came ashore near a thick wood in which I lay concealed. They were very angry at my having escaped and went searching about for me, till at last they thought it was no further use and went back to their ship. The gods, having hidden me thus easily, then took me to a good man’s door—for it seems that I am not to die yet awhile.’
“这些人策划了一个针对我的阴谋，这将使我陷入极度的痛苦，因为当船离开陆地时，他们决定把我卖为奴隶。他们脱掉了我身上穿的衬衫和斗篷，给了我你现在看到的我的破烂的旧衣服。傍晚时分，他们到达了伊萨卡的耕地，用一根结实的绳子把我牢牢地绑在船上，然后他们就上岸去海边吃晚饭。但众神很快就为我解开了束缚，把破烂的衣服拉到头上，我顺着舵滑进海里，在那里我奋力游动，直到完全摆脱束缚，然后在一片茂密的树林附近上岸。我隐藏起来。他们对我的逃跑非常生气，四处寻找我，直到最后他们认为已经没有用了，才回到他们的船上。诸神如此轻易地把我藏了起来，然后又把我带到了一个好人的门前——看来我暂时还死不了。

To this you answered, O swineherd Eumaeus, ‘Poor unhappy stranger, I have found the story of your misfortunes extremely interesting, but that part about Ulysses is not right; and you will never get me to believe it. Why should a man like you go about telling lies in this way? I know all about the return of my master. The gods one and all of them detest him, or they would have taken him before Troy, or let him die with friends around him when the days of his fighting were done; for then the Achaeans would have built a mound over his ashes and his son would have been heir to his renown, but now the storm winds have spirited him away we know not whither.
对此，猪倌尤迈厄斯啊，你回答道：“可怜的不幸的陌生人，我发现你的不幸故事非常有趣，但是关于尤利西斯的那部分是不正确的；你永远不会让我相信这一点。像你这样的人为什么要这样说谎呢？我的主人回来的事我都知道。众神都憎恨他，否则他们就会把他带到特洛伊城前，或者当他战斗的日子结束后，让他和他周围的朋友一起死去；因为那时亚该亚人会在他的骨灰上建起一座土堆，而他的儿子就会继承他的名声，但现在暴风把他偷走了，我们不知道去了哪里。

‘As for me I live out of the way here with the pigs, and never go to the town unless when Penelope sends for me on the arrival of some news about Ulysses. Then they all sit round and ask questions, both those who grieve over the king’s absence, and those who rejoice at it because they can eat up his property without paying for it. For my own part I have never cared about asking anyone else since the time when I was taken in by an Aetolian, who had killed a man and come a long way till at last he reached my station, and I was very kind to him. He said he had seen Ulysses with Idomeneus among the Cretans, refitting his ships which had been damaged in a gale. He said Ulysses would return in the following summer or autumn with his men, and that he would bring back much wealth. And now you, you unfortunate old man, since fate has brought you to my door, do not try to flatter me in this way with vain hopes. It is not for any such reason that I shall treat you kindly, but only out of respect for Jove the god of hospitality, as fearing him and pitying you.’
“至于我，我和猪住在一起，住得很偏僻，从不进城，除非佩内洛普收到有关尤利西斯的消息后派人来找我。然后，他们都围坐在一起问问题，其中既有因国王缺席而悲伤的人，也有因国王的缺席而感到高兴的人，因为他们可以不付钱就吃掉他的财产。就我个人而言，自从我被一个埃托利亚人收留以来，我就从来没有关心过问别人，这个埃托利亚人杀了一个人，走了很长一段路，最后终于到达了我的车站，我对他很好。他说他看到尤利西斯和伊多墨纽斯在克里特岛人中修理在大风中受损的船只。他说尤利西斯将在接下来的夏天或秋天带着他的部下回来，并且他会带回大量财富。现在你，你这个不幸的老人，既然命运把你带到了我的门前，你就别再抱着不切实际的希望来奉承我了。我并不是出于这样的原因善待你，而只是出于对好客之神朱庇特的尊重，敬畏他并怜悯你。

Ulysses answered, ‘I see that you are of an unbelieving mind; I have given you my oath, and yet you will not credit me; let us then make a bargain, and call all the gods in heaven to witness it. If your master comes home, give me a cloak and shirt of good wear, and send me to Dulichium where I want to go; but if he does not come as I say he will, set your men on to me, and tell them to throw me from yonder precipice, as a warning to tramps not to go about the country telling lies.’
尤利西斯回答说：“我看出你是一个不信的人；我已向你发誓，但你却不相信我；那么我们就做个交易，请天上的诸神来见证吧。如果你的主人回来了，请给我一件好穿的斗篷和衬衫，并送我去我想去的杜利奇乌姆；但如果他没有按我说的那样来，就让你的人来对付我，并告诉他们把我从那边的悬崖上扔下去，警告流浪汉不要在乡间到处说谎。

‘And a pretty figure I should cut then,’ replied Eumaeus, ‘both now and hereafter, if I were to kill you after receiving you into my hut and showing you hospitality. I should have to say my prayers in good earnest if I did; but it is just supper time and I hope my men will come in directly, that we may cook something savoury for supper.’
“那么，我应该把你砍成一个漂亮的形象，”尤迈乌斯回答道，“无论是现在还是以后，如果我在接待你进入我的小屋并热情款待你之后杀了你的话。”如果我这样做的话，我就必须认真地祈祷；但现在只是晚饭时间，我希望我的人能直接进来，我们可以做一些美味的晚饭。”

Thus did they converse, and presently the swineherds came up with the pigs, which were then shut up for the night in their styes, and a tremendous squealing they made as they were being driven into them. But Eumaeus called to his men and said, ‘Bring in the best pig you have, that I may sacrifice him for this stranger, and we will take toll of him ourselves. We have had trouble enough this long time feeding pigs, while others reap the fruit of our labour.’
他们就这样交谈着，不久，养猪人把猪赶了过来，然后把猪关在猪圈里过夜，当猪被赶进猪圈时，猪发出了巨大的尖叫声。但欧迈俄斯对他的部下喊道：“把你们最好的猪带来，我可以为这个陌生人牺牲他，我们自己来杀死他。”这么长时间以来，我们养猪的麻烦已经够多了，而其他人却在收获我们的劳动成果。”

On this he began chopping firewood, while the others brought in a fine fat five year old boar pig, and set it at the altar. Eumaeus did not forget the gods, for he was a man of good principles, so the first thing he did was to cut bristles from the pig’s face and throw them into the fire, praying to all the gods as he did so that Ulysses might return home again. Then he clubbed the pig with a billet of oak which he had kept back when he was chopping the firewood, and stunned it, while the others slaughtered and singed it. Then they cut it up, and Eumaeus began by putting raw pieces from each joint on to some of the fat; these he sprinkled with barley meal, and laid upon the embers; they cut the rest of the meat up small, put the pieces upon the spits and roasted them till they were done; when they had taken them off the spits they threw them on to the dresser in a heap. The swineherd, who was a most equitable man, then stood up to give every one his share. He made seven portions; one of these he set apart for Mercury the son of Maia and the nymphs, praying to them as he did so; the others he dealt out to the men man by man. He gave Ulysses some slices cut lengthways down the loin as a mark of especial honour, and Ulysses was much pleased. ‘I hope, Eumaeus,’ said he, ‘that Jove will be as well disposed towards you as I am, for the respect you are showing to an outcast like myself.’
说完他就开始劈柴，其他人则牵来一头肥肥的五岁野猪，放在祭坛上。欧迈俄斯没有忘记众神，因为他是一个有原则的人，所以他做的第一件事就是把猪脸上的鬃毛剪下来扔进火里，像他一样向众神祈祷，让尤利西斯能够回来。又到家了。然后，他用砍柴时留下的橡木棒敲打那头猪，将其击晕，而其他人则宰杀并烧焦它。然后他们把它切碎，尤迈厄斯开始把每个关节的生块放在一些脂肪上；然后，他们把它切碎。他在这些东西上撒上大麦粉，然后放在余烬上。他们把剩下的肉切成小块，放在烤肉叉上烤熟。当他们把它们从烤叉上取下来后，他们把它们堆成一堆扔到梳妆台上。猪倌是一个最公平的人，他站起来给每个人分配他的一份。他做了七份；他把其中的一个留给迈亚的儿子墨丘利和仙女们，同时向她们祈祷。其他的他一个一个地分发给这些人。他给了尤利西斯一些纵向切下的腰肉片，以示特别的荣誉，尤利西斯非常高兴。 “我希望，尤迈厄斯，”他说，“朱庇特会像我一样对你有好感，因为你对像我这样的被排斥者表现出尊重。”

To this you answered, O swineherd Eumaeus, ‘Eat, my good fellow, and enjoy your supper, such as it is. God grants this, and withholds that, just as he thinks right, for he can do whatever he chooses.’
对此，你的回答是，哦，猪倌尤迈厄斯，‘吃吧，我的好朋友，享受你的晚餐吧，就这样吧。上帝会按照他认为正确的方式批准这个，并保留那个，因为他可以做任何他选择的事情。

As he spoke he cut off the first piece and offered it as a burnt sacrifice to the immortal gods; then he made them a drink-offering, put the cup in the hands of Ulysses, and sat down to his own portion. Mesaulius brought them their bread; the swineherd had brought this man on his own account from among the Taphians during his master’s absence, and had paid for him with his own money without saying anything either to his mistress or Laertes. They then laid their hands upon the good things that were before them, and when they had had enough to eat and drink, Mesaulius took away what was left of the bread, and they all went to bed after having made a hearty supper.
当他说话时，他切下了第一块，并将其作为燔祭献给了不朽的众神。然后他给他们敬了奠酒，把杯子递到尤利西斯手里，然后坐下来吃他自己的那一份。梅索留斯给他们带来了面包。猪倌在主人不在的时候，自费从塔菲亚人中带来了这个人，并用自己的钱支付了他的费用，没有对他的女主人或莱尔提斯说任何话。然后他们把手放在面前的好东西上，当他们吃饱喝足后，梅索留斯拿走了剩下的面包，他们在吃完丰盛的晚餐后就上床睡觉了。

Now the night came on stormy and very dark, for there was no moon. It poured without ceasing, and the wind blew strong from the West, which is a wet quarter, so Ulysses thought he would see whether Eumaeus, in the excellent care he took of him, would take off his own cloak and give it him, or make one of his men give him one. ‘Listen to me,’ said he, ‘Eumaeus and the rest of you; when I have said a prayer I will tell you something. It is the wine that makes me talk in this way; wine will make even a wise man fall to singing; it will make him chuckle and dance and say many a word that he had better leave unspoken; still, as I have begun, I will go on. Would that I were still young and strong as when we got up an ambuscade before Troy. Menelaus and Ulysses were the leaders, but I was in command also, for the other two would have it so. When we had come up to the wall of the city we crouched down beneath our armour and lay there under cover of the reeds and thick brushwood that grew about the swamp. It came on to freeze with a North wind blowing; the snow fell small and fine like hoar frost, and our shields were coated thick with rime. The others had all got cloaks and shirts, and slept comfortably enough with their shields about their shoulders, but I had carelessly left my cloak behind me, not thinking that I should be too cold, and had gone off in nothing but my shirt and shield. When the night was two-thirds through and the stars had shifted their places, I nudged Ulysses who was close to me with my elbow, and he at once gave me his ear.
夜晚风雨交加，漆黑一片，因为没有月亮。倾盆大雨不停，风从西边吹来，这是一个潮湿的地区，所以尤利西斯想看看尤迈厄斯对他的精心照顾是否会脱下自己的斗篷给他，或者让他的一名手下给他一份。 “听我说，”他说，“欧迈厄斯和你们其他人；当我祈祷完后，我会告诉你一些事情。是酒让我这样说话；酒能使智者沉醉于歌声；这会让他咯咯地笑，跳舞，说出许多他最好不要说出来的话。尽管如此，正如我已经开始的那样，我会继续下去。要是我还像我们在特洛伊城前遭到伏击时那样年轻、强壮就好了。墨涅拉俄斯和尤利西斯是领导者，但我也是指挥者，因为另外两个人也会这样。当我们到达城墙时，我们在盔甲下蹲下，躺在沼泽周围生长的芦苇和茂密的灌木丛的掩护下。随着北风的吹拂，天气开始结冰。雪花又小又细，像白霜一样，我们的盾牌上结满了厚厚的霜。其他人都穿上了斗篷和衬衫，肩膀上挂着盾牌，睡得很舒服，但我不小心把斗篷留在了身后，不认为自己会太冷，除了衬衫和盾牌之外什么也没穿。 。夜幕已过三分之二，星星已经移动了位置，我用胳膊肘碰了碰靠近我的尤利西斯，他立刻把耳朵凑到我身边。

‘‘Ulysses,’ said I, ‘this cold will be the death of me, for I have no cloak; some god fooled me into setting off with nothing on but my shirt, and I do not know what to do.’
“尤利西斯，”我说，“这种寒冷会害死我，因为我没有斗篷；某个上帝欺骗了我，让我只穿衬衫就出发了，我不知道该怎么办。

‘Ulysses, who was as crafty as he was valiant, hit upon the following plan:
“尤利西斯既狡猾又勇敢，想出了以下计划：

‘‘Keep still,’ said he in a low voice, ‘or the others will hear you.’ Then he raised his head on his elbow.
“保持安静，”他低声说道，“否则其他人会听到你的声音。”然后他用肘部抬起头。

‘‘My friends,’ said he, ‘I have had a dream from heaven in my sleep. We are a long way from the ships; I wish some one would go down and tell Agamemnon to send us up more men at once.’
“我的朋友们，”他说，“我在睡梦中做了一个来自天堂的梦。我们距离船只很远；我希望有人下去告诉阿伽门农立即派更多人上来。

‘On this Thoas son of Andraemon threw off his cloak and set out running to the ships, whereon I took the cloak and lay in it comfortably enough till morning. Would that I were still young and strong as I was in those days, for then some one of you swineherds would give me a cloak both out of good will and for the respect due to a brave soldier; but now people look down upon me because my clothes are shabby.’
“就在这个时候，安德雷蒙的儿子托阿斯脱下了斗篷，跑向船上，我拿起斗篷，舒服地躺在里面，直到早上。但愿我仍像那时一样年轻力壮，那时你们猪倌中的某个人会送给我一件斗篷，这既是出于善意，也是出于对勇敢士兵的尊重；但现在人们看不起我，因为我的衣服很破旧。”

And Eumaeus answered, ‘Old man, you have told us an excellent story, and have said nothing so far but what is quite satisfactory; for the present, therefore, you shall want neither clothing nor anything else that a stranger in distress may reasonably expect, but to-morrow morning you have to shake your own old rags about your body again, for we have not many spare cloaks nor shirts up here, but every man has only one. When Ulysses’ son comes home again he will give you both cloak and shirt, and send you wherever you may want to go.’
尤迈乌斯回答说：“老人，你给我们讲了一个精彩的故事，到目前为止，除了非常令人满意的内容之外，你什么也没说。因此，目前你不需要衣服，也不需要任何其他处于困境的陌生人可能合理期望的东西，但明天早上你必须再次抖掉你身上的旧破布，因为我们没有太多多余的斗篷或衬衫在这里，但每个人都只有一个。当尤利西斯的儿子再次回家时，他会给你斗篷和衬衫，并送你去任何你想去的地方。

With this he got up and made a bed for Ulysses by throwing some goatskins and sheepskins on the ground in front of the fire. Here Ulysses lay down, and Eumaeus covered him over with a great heavy cloak that he kept for a change in case of extraordinarily bad weather.
说完，他起身，在火炉前的地上扔了一些山羊皮和绵羊皮，为尤利西斯铺了一张床。尤利西斯躺在这里，尤迈厄斯给他盖上一件又大又重的斗篷，他把斗篷保留下来，以备天气异常恶劣时更换。

Thus did Ulysses sleep, and the young men slept beside him. But the swineherd did not like sleeping away from his pigs, so he got ready to go outside, and Ulysses was glad to see that he looked after his property during his master’s absence. First he slung his sword over his brawny shoulders and put on a thick cloak to keep out the wind. He also took the skin of a large and well fed goat, and a javelin in case of attack from men or dogs. Thus equipped he went to his rest where the pigs were camping under an overhanging rock that gave them shelter from the North wind.
尤利西斯就这样睡着了，年轻人也睡在他身边。但是猪倌不喜欢睡在远离猪的地方，所以他准备出去，尤利西斯很高兴看到他在主人不在的时候照管自己的财产。首先，他把剑挂在强壮的肩膀上，并穿上一件厚斗篷来挡风。他还拿了一只吃得饱的大山羊的皮，以及一支标枪，以防受到人或狗的攻击。装备齐全后，他就去休息了，猪们在一块悬垂的岩石下露营，这可以让它们躲避北风。

BOOK XV
第十五册

MINERVA SUMMONS TELEMACHUS FROM LACEDAEMON—HE MEETS WITH THEOCLYMENUS AT PYLOS AND BRINGS HIM TO ITHACA—ON LANDING HE GOES TO THE HUT OF EUMAEUS.
密涅瓦从斯代蒙召唤忒勒马科斯——他在皮洛斯与泰奥克利门斯会面，并把他带到伊萨卡——登陆后，他去了尤迈乌斯的小屋。

But Minerva went to the fair city of Lacedaemon to tell Ulysses’ son that he was to return at once. She found him and Pisistratus sleeping in the forecourt of Menelaus’s house; Pisistratus was fast asleep, but Telemachus could get no rest all night for thinking of his unhappy father, so Minerva went close up to him and said:
但密涅瓦前往美丽的拉栖代梦城告诉尤利西斯的儿子他要立即返回。她发现他和庇西特拉图睡在墨涅拉俄斯宅邸的前院。庇西特拉图斯睡得很熟，但特勒马科斯因为想起他不幸的父亲而整夜无法休息，于是密涅瓦靠近他说道：

‘Telemachus, you should not remain so far away from home any longer, nor leave your property with such dangerous people in your house; they will eat up everything you have among them, and you will have been on a fool’s errand. Ask Menelaus to send you home at once if you wish to find your excellent mother still there when you get back. Her father and brothers are already urging her to marry Eurymachus, who has given her more than any of the others, and has been greatly increasing his wedding presents. I hope nothing valuable may have been taken from the house in spite of you, but you know what women are—they always want to do the best they can for the man who marries them, and never give another thought to the children of their first husband, nor to their father either when he is dead and done with. Go home, therefore, and put everything in charge of the most respectable woman servant that you have, until it shall please heaven to send you a wife of your own. Let me tell you also of another matter which you had better attend to. The chief men among the suitors are lying in wait for you in the Strait {128} between Ithaca and Samos, and they mean to kill you before you can reach home. I do not much think they will succeed; it is more likely that some of those who are now eating up your property will find a grave themselves. Sail night and day, and keep your ship well away from the islands; the god who watches over you and protects you will send you a fair wind. As soon as you get to Ithaca send your ship and men on to the town, but yourself go straight to the swineherd who has charge of your pigs; he is well disposed towards you, stay with him, therefore, for the night, and then send him to Penelope to tell her that you have got back safe from Pylos.’
‘忒勒马科斯，你不应该再离家那么远，也不应该把你的财产留给家里如此危险的人；他们会吃掉你所有的一切，而你的任务将是愚蠢的。如果你想回来时发现你优秀的母亲还在，就请墨涅拉俄斯立刻送你回家吧。她的父亲和兄弟已经在催促她嫁给欧律马科斯，欧律马科斯给了她比任何人都多的礼物，而且还大大增加了他的结婚礼物。我希望尽管你没有把任何有价值的东西从房子里拿走，但你知道女人是什么——她们总是想为嫁给她们的男人做最好的事情，从不考虑第一个孩子丈夫，或者当他们的父亲死后，也不给他。因此，回家吧，把一切都交给你最受尊敬的女仆人，直到上天高兴地给你送一个自己的妻子为止。我还告诉你另一件你最好注意的事情。追求者中的头目正在伊萨卡和萨摩斯之间的海峡{128}埋伏着你，他们打算在你回家之前杀死你。我不太认为他们会成功。更有可能的是，那些正在吞噬你财产的人会自己找到坟墓。日夜航行，让你的船远离岛屿；守护你、保护你的神会给你送来一阵和风。你一到达伊萨卡，就派你的船和人去镇上，但你自己直接去找负责看管你的猪的猪倌；他对你很好，所以，和他住一晚，然后把他送到佩内洛普那里，告诉她你已经从皮洛斯那里安全回来了。

Then she went back to Olympus; but Telemachus stirred Pisistratus with his heel to rouse him, and said, ‘Wake up Pisistratus, and yoke the horses to the chariot, for we must set off home.’ {129}
然后她回到奥林匹斯山。但特勒马科斯用脚后跟搅动皮西斯特拉图，叫醒他，并说：“醒来，皮西斯特拉图，把马套在战车上，因为我们必须回家了。”{129}

But Pisistratus said, ‘No matter what hurry we are in we cannot drive in the dark. It will be morning soon; wait till Menelaus has brought his presents and put them in the chariot for us; and let him say good bye to us in the usual way. So long as he lives a guest should never forget a host who has shown him kindness.’
但皮西斯特拉图说：“无论我们有多急，我们都不能在黑暗中开车。”很快就到了早晨；等到墨涅拉俄斯把他的礼物带来，并为我们把它们放在战车上；让他像往常一样向我们告别。客人只要活着，就永远不能忘记对他有善意的主人。

As he spoke day began to break, and Menelaus, who had already risen, leaving Helen in bed, came towards them. When Telemachus saw him he put on his shirt as fast as he could, threw a great cloak over his shoulders, and went out to meet him. ‘Menelaus,’ said he, ‘let me go back now to my own country, for I want to get home.’
当他说话的时候，天已经亮了，墨涅拉俄斯已经起身，把海伦留在床上，朝他们走来。当忒勒马科斯看到他时，他尽快穿上衬衫，把一件大斗篷披在肩上，出去迎接他。 “墨涅拉俄斯，”他说，“让我现在回我自己的国家吧，因为我想回家。”

And Menelaus answered, ‘Telemachus, if you insist on going I will not detain you. I do not like to see a host either too fond of his guest or too rude to him. Moderation is best in all things, and not letting a man go when he wants to do so is as bad as telling him to go if he would like to stay. One should treat a guest well as long as he is in the house and speed him when he wants to leave it. Wait, then, till I can get your beautiful presents into your chariot, and till you have yourself seen them. I will tell the women to prepare a sufficient dinner for you of what there may be in the house; it will be at once more proper and cheaper for you to get your dinner before setting out on such a long journey. If, moreover, you have a fancy for making a tour in Hellas or in the Peloponnese, I will yoke my horses, and will conduct you myself through all our principal cities. No one will send us away empty handed; every one will give us something—a bronze tripod, a couple of mules, or a gold cup.’
墨涅拉俄斯回答说：“忒勒马科斯，如果你坚持要去，我不会耽搁你。”我不喜欢看到主人太喜欢他的客人或对他太粗鲁。凡事适度是最好的，当一个人想走时不让他走，就像他想留下来却告诉他走一样糟糕。只要客人在家里，就应该善待他；当他想离开时，就应该催促他。那么，等我把你美丽的礼物送上你的战车，直到你亲眼看到它们为止。我会吩咐女人们用家里的东西为你们准备一顿足够的晚餐。对你来说，在出发这么长的旅程之前吃晚饭会更合适、更便宜。此外，如果您喜欢游览希腊或伯罗奔尼撒半岛，我会套上我的马，亲自带您游览我们所有的主要城市。没有人会送我们空手而去；每个人都会给我们一些东西——一个青铜鼎、几头骡子或一个金杯。

‘Menelaus,’ replied Telemachus, ‘I want to go home at once, for when I came away I left my property without protection, and fear that while looking for my father I shall come to ruin myself, or find that something valuable has been stolen during my absence.’
“墨涅拉俄斯，”忒勒马科斯回答道，“我想立刻回家，因为当我离开时，我离开了我的财产，没有任何保护，我担心在寻找我的父亲时我会毁掉自己，或者发现一些有价值的东西被人丢了。”我不在的时候被偷了。”

When Menelaus heard this he immediately told his wife and servants to prepare a sufficient dinner from what there might be in the house. At this moment Eteoneus joined him, for he lived close by and had just got up; so Menelaus told him to light the fire and cook some meat, which he at once did. Then Menelaus went down into his fragrant store room, {130} not alone, but Helen went too, with Megapenthes. When he reached the place where the treasures of his house were kept, he selected a double cup, and told his son Megapenthes to bring also a silver mixing bowl. Meanwhile Helen went to the chest where she kept the lovely dresses which she had made with her own hands, and took out one that was largest and most beautifully enriched with embroidery; it glittered like a star, and lay at the very bottom of the chest. {131} Then they all came back through the house again till they got to Telemachus, and Menelaus said, ‘Telemachus, may Jove, the mighty husband of Juno, bring you safely home according to your desire. I will now present you with the finest and most precious piece of plate in all my house. It is a mixing bowl of pure silver, except the rim, which is inlaid with gold, and it is the work of Vulcan. Phaedimus king of the Sidonians made me a present of it in the course of a visit that I paid him while I was on my return home. I should like to give it to you.’
墨涅拉俄斯一听，立即吩咐妻子和仆人，用家里的粮食准备足够的晚餐。这时，埃托纽斯也加入了他，因为他住在附近，而且刚刚起床。墨涅拉俄斯让他生火煮点肉，他立即照做了。然后墨涅拉俄斯走进了他芳香四溢的储藏室，{130} 不是独自一人，而是海伦也去了，带着麦加彭忒斯。当他到达存放他家宝藏的地方时，他选择了一个双层杯子，并告诉他的儿子梅加彭特斯也带一个银搅拌碗。与此同时，海伦走到柜子前，里面放着她亲手缝制的漂亮裙子，拿出一件最大、绣得最漂亮的一件。它像星星一样闪闪发光，位于箱子的最底部。 {131} 然后他们又穿过房子回来，直到到达特勒马科斯，墨涅拉俄斯说：“特勒马科斯，愿朱诺强大的丈夫朱庇特按照您的愿望带您安全回家。现在我将把我家中最精美、最珍贵的一块盘子送给您。这是一只纯银的搅拌碗，除了边缘之外，都是镶金的，是火神之作。西顿国王斐迪摩斯在我回国途中拜访他时，将它作为礼物送给了我。我想把它给你。

With these words he placed the double cup in the hands of Telemachus, while Megapenthes brought the beautiful mixing bowl and set it before him. Hard by stood lovely Helen with the robe ready in her hand.
说完，他把双层杯子放到了特勒马科斯的手中，而梅加彭忒斯则拿来了漂亮的搅拌碗，放在他面前。可爱的海伦站在旁边，手里拿着准备好的长袍。

‘I too, my son,’ said she, ‘have something for you as a keepsake from the hand of Helen; it is for your bride to wear upon her wedding day. Till then, get your dear mother to keep it for you; thus may you go back rejoicing to your own country and to your home.’
“我的儿子，”她说，“我也从海伦手中得到了一些东西作为纪念品给你；它是供您的新娘在婚礼当天佩戴的。到那时，让你亲爱的妈妈替你保管吧；愿你们满怀喜悦地回到自己的祖国和家乡。”

So saying she gave the robe over to him and he received it gladly. Then Pisistratus put the presents into the chariot, and admired them all as he did so. Presently Menelaus took Telemachus and Pisistratus into the house, and they both of them sat down to table. A maid servant brought them water in a beautiful golden ewer, and poured it into a silver basin for them to wash their hands, and she drew a clean table beside them; an upper servant brought them bread and offered them many good things of what there was in the house. Eteoneus carved the meat and gave them each their portions, while Megapenthes poured out the wine. Then they laid their hands upon the good things that were before them, but as soon as they had had enough to eat and drink Telemachus and Pisistratus yoked the horses, and took their places in the chariot. They drove out through the inner gateway and under the echoing gatehouse of the outer court, and Menelaus came after them with a golden goblet of wine in his right hand that they might make a drink-offering before they set out. He stood in front of the horses and pledged them, saying, ‘Farewell to both of you; see that you tell Nestor how I have treated you, for he was as kind to me as any father could be while we Achaeans were fighting before Troy.’
说着，她把袍子交给了他，他很高兴地收到了。然后庇西特拉图把礼物放进战车，一边欣赏着它们。不久，墨涅拉俄斯带着忒勒马科斯和庇西斯特拉图进屋，两人坐到餐桌旁。一个女仆用一个漂亮的金壶给他们端来水，倒进一个银盆里，让他们洗手，然后在他们旁边拉了一张干净的桌子。一个上层仆人给他们带来了面包，并给了他们许多家里的好东西。埃托纽斯切了肉，给了他们每人一份，而梅加彭忒斯则倒了酒。然后他们把手放在面前的好东西上，但当他们吃饱喝足后，特勒马科斯和庇西斯特拉图斯就套上马，坐在战车上。他们从内门出发，来到外院回响的门楼下，墨涅拉俄斯跟在他们后面，右手拿着一只金酒杯，以便他们在出发前可以奠酒。他站在马前，向他们保证道：“再见了，你们二位。”请你告诉内斯特我是如何对待你的，因为当我们亚该亚人在特洛伊城前作战时，他对我就像任何父亲一样仁慈。

‘We will be sure, sir,’ answered Telemachus, ‘to tell him everything as soon as we see him. I wish I were as certain of finding Ulysses returned when I get back to Ithaca, that I might tell him of the very great kindness you have shown me and of the many beautiful presents I am taking with me.’
“先生，”忒勒马科斯回答道，“我们一见到他就一定会告诉他一切。”我希望当我回到伊萨卡时，我能确定能找到尤利西斯回来，这样我就可以告诉他你对我表现出的极大善意，以及我随身携带的许多美丽礼物。

As he was thus speaking a bird flew on his right hand—an eagle with a great white goose in its talons which it had carried off from the farm yard—and all the men and women were running after it and shouting. It came quite close up to them and flew away on their right hands in front of the horses. When they saw it they were glad, and their hearts took comfort within them, whereon Pisistratus said, ‘Tell me, Menelaus, has heaven sent this omen for us or for you?’
正当他说话的时候，一只鸟从他的右手飞过——一只鹰，爪子里叼着一只​​大白鹅，是它从农场的院子里叼来的——所有的男人和女人们都在追赶它，大喊大叫。它离他们很近，然后从他们的右手飞到马前面。当他们看到它时，他们很高兴，他们的内心得到了安慰，皮西斯特拉图说：“告诉我，墨涅拉俄斯，上天为我们还是为你发出了这个预兆？”

Menelaus was thinking what would be the most proper answer for him to make, but Helen was too quick for him and said, ‘I will read this matter as heaven has put it in my heart, and as I doubt not that it will come to pass. The eagle came from the mountain where it was bred and has its nest, and in like manner Ulysses, after having travelled far and suffered much, will return to take his revenge—if indeed he is not back already and hatching mischief for the suitors.’
墨涅拉俄斯正在思考对他来说最合适的答案是什么，但海伦对他来说太快了，她说：“我会按照上天放在我心里的方式读这件事，而且我毫不怀疑它会来的。”经过。鹰来自它的繁殖地和筑巢地，同样，尤利西斯在长途跋涉、受尽磨难之后，也会回来报仇——如果他确实还没有回来，为追求者们制造恶作剧的话。 '

‘May Jove so grant it,’ replied Telemachus, ‘if it should prove to be so, I will make vows to you as though you were a god, even when I am at home.’
“愿天神如此应允，”忒勒马科斯回答道，“如果事实确实如此，即使我在家，我也会向你发誓，就像你是神一样。”

As he spoke he lashed his horses and they started off at full speed through the town towards the open country. They swayed the yoke upon their necks and travelled the whole day long till the sun set and darkness was over all the land. Then they reached Pherae, where Diocles lived who was son of Ortilochus, the son of Alpheus. There they passed the night and were treated hospitably. When the child of morning, rosy-fingered Dawn, appeared, they again yoked their horses and their places in the chariot. They drove out through the inner gateway and under the echoing gatehouse of the outer court. Then Pisistratus lashed his horses on and they flew forward nothing loath; ere long they came to Pylos, and then Telemachus said:
他一边说着，一边鞭打马匹，马匹全速出发，穿过城镇，向空旷的乡村驶去。他们摇晃着脖子上的轭，走了一整天，直到太阳落山，黑暗笼罩了大地。然后他们到达了菲莱（Pherae），戴奥克勒斯（Diocles）住在那里，他是阿尔菲斯（Alpheus）的儿子奥尔提洛科斯（Ortilochus）的儿子。他们在那里过夜并受到热情款待。当早晨的孩子，玫瑰色手指的黎明出现时，他们再次套上马匹，重新坐上战车。他们从内门驶出，来到外院回响的门楼下。然后皮西斯特拉图鞭打他的战马，他们毫不畏惧地向前飞去。不久他们就来到了皮洛斯，然后忒勒马科斯说道：

‘Pisistratus, I hope you will promise to do what I am going to ask you. You know our fathers were old friends before us; moreover, we are both of an age, and this journey has brought us together still more closely; do not, therefore, take me past my ship, but leave me there, for if I go to your father’s house he will try to keep me in the warmth of his good will towards me, and I must go home at once.’
‘庇西特拉图，我希望你答应做我要你做的事。你知道我们的父亲在我们之前就是老朋友了；而且，我们都是同龄人，这段旅程使我们更加紧密地联系在一起。因此，不要带我经过我的船，而要把我留在那里，因为如果我去你父亲的家，他会尽力让我保持在他对我的善意的温暖中，我必须立即回家。

Pisistratus thought how he should do as he was asked, and in the end he deemed it best to turn his horses towards the ship, and put Menelaus’s beautiful presents of gold and raiment in the stern of the vessel. Then he said, ‘Go on board at once and tell your men to do so also before I can reach home to tell my father. I know how obstinate he is, and am sure he will not let you go; he will come down here to fetch you, and he will not go back without you. But he will be very angry.’
皮西斯特拉图斯按照要求思考该如何做，最后他认为最好将马转向船，并将墨涅拉俄斯送给墨涅拉俄斯的精美黄金和衣服礼物放在船尾。然后他说：“立即上船，并告诉你的人，在我回家告诉我父亲之前也这样做。”我知道他有多固执，我相信他不会放你走的；他会来这里接你，没有你他不会回去。但他会非常生气。”

With this he drove his goodly steeds back to the city of the Pylians and soon reached his home, but Telemachus called the men together and gave his orders. ‘Now, my men,’ said he, ‘get everything in order on board the ship, and let us set out home.’
说完，他赶着他的良马回到了皮利亚人的城市，很快就回到了家，但特勒马科斯召集了人们并下达了命令。 “现在，我的伙计们，”他说，“把船上的一切都收拾好，让我们出发回家吧。”

Thus did he speak, and they went on board even as he had said. But as Telemachus was thus busied, praying also and sacrificing to Minerva in the ship’s stern, there came to him a man from a distant country, a seer, who was flying from Argos because he had killed a man. He was descended from Melampus, who used to live in Pylos, the land of sheep; he was rich and owned a great house, but he was driven into exile by the great and powerful king Neleus. Neleus seized his goods and held them for a whole year, during which he was a close prisoner in the house of king Phylacus, and in much distress of mind both on account of the daughter of Neleus and because he was haunted by a great sorrow that dread Erinys had laid upon him. In the end, however, he escaped with his life, drove the cattle from Phylace to Pylos, avenged the wrong that had been done him, and gave the daughter of Neleus to his brother. Then he left the country and went to Argos, where it was ordained that he should reign over much people. There he married, established himself, and had two famous sons Antiphates and Mantius. Antiphates became father of Oicleus, and Oicleus of Amphiaraus, who was dearly loved both by Jove and by Apollo, but he did not live to old age, for he was killed in Thebes by reason of a woman’s gifts. His sons were Alcmaeon and Amphilochus. Mantius, the other son of Melampus, was father to Polypheides and Cleitus. Aurora, throned in gold, carried off Cleitus for his beauty’s sake, that he might dwell among the immortals, but Apollo made Polypheides the greatest seer in the whole world now that Amphiaraus was dead. He quarrelled with his father and went to live in Hyperesia, where he remained and prophesied for all men.
他这样说，他们就照他的话上了船。但当忒勒马科斯正忙着在船尾向密涅瓦祈祷和献祭时，有一个来自遥远国家的人来到他身边，他是一位预言家，因为杀了一个人而从阿尔戈斯飞来。他是梅兰波斯（Melampus）的后裔，梅兰波斯曾居住在皮洛斯（Pylos），即羊之乡。他很富有，拥有一栋大房子，但他被强大的国王涅琉斯流放。涅琉斯没收了他的财物，并扣留了整整一年，在此期间，他被关押在菲拉库斯国王的宫中，他因涅琉斯的女儿而感到非常痛苦，也因为他被一种巨大的悲伤所困扰。厄里尼斯给他带来了恐惧。然而，最终他逃了出来，将牛群从菲拉斯赶到了皮洛斯，为他所受的冤屈报了仇，并将涅琉斯的女儿送给了他的兄弟。然后他离开这个国家前往阿尔戈斯，在那里他被任命为统治许多人民的人。他在那里结婚，建立了自己的地位，并育有两个著名的儿子安提法特斯和曼提乌斯。安提法特斯成为奥伊勒斯的父亲，奥伊勒斯是安菲阿劳斯的父亲，奥伊勒斯深受朱庇特和阿波罗的喜爱，但他并没有活到老年，因为他因一个女人的礼物而在底比斯被杀。他的儿子是阿尔克迈翁和安菲罗科斯。曼提乌斯是梅兰波斯的另一个儿子，是波吕斐德斯和克莱图斯的父亲。坐在黄金王座上的奥罗拉（Aurora）为了美貌而带走了克莱图斯（Cleitus），以便他可以居住在神仙之中，但阿波罗（Apollo）在安菲阿俄斯（Amphiaraus）死后使波吕斐德斯（Polypheides）成为全世界最伟大的预言家。他与父亲发生争吵，搬到海佩西亚居住，并在那里为所有人发预言。

His son, Theoclymenus, it was who now came up to Telemachus as he was making drink-offerings and praying in his ship. ‘Friend,’ said he, ‘now that I find you sacrificing in this place, I beseech you by your sacrifices themselves, and by the god to whom you make them, I pray you also by your own head and by those of your followers tell me the truth and nothing but the truth. Who and whence are you? Tell me also of your town and parents.’
当特勒马科斯在船上献酒和祈祷时，他的儿子忒克吕米努斯来到了他面前。 “朋友，”他说，“现在我发现你在这个地方献祭，我以你的祭品本身和你为之献祭的神祈求你，我也以你自己的头脑和你的追随者的头脑祈求你告诉我真相，除了真相之外别无其他。你是谁、从哪里来？也告诉我你的城镇和父母。

Telemachus said, ‘I will answer you quite truly. I am from Ithaca, and my father is Ulysses, as surely as that he ever lived. But he has come to some miserable end. Therefore I have taken this ship and got my crew together to see if I can hear any news of him, for he has been away a long time.’
忒勒马科斯说：“我会很诚实地回答你。”我来自伊萨卡，我的父亲是尤利西斯，正如他曾经生活过的那样。但他的结局却很悲惨。因此，我乘坐了这艘船，并召集了我的船员，看看是否能听到他的消息，因为他已经离开很长时间了。

‘I too,’ answered Theoclymenus, ‘am an exile, for I have killed a man of my own race. He has many brothers and kinsmen in Argos, and they have great power among the Argives. I am flying to escape death at their hands, and am thus doomed to be a wanderer on the face of the earth. I am your suppliant; take me, therefore, on board your ship that they may not kill me, for I know they are in pursuit.’
“我也是，”泰奥克里米努斯回答道，“我也是一个流放者，因为我杀了一个同族人。”他在阿尔戈斯有很多兄弟和亲戚，他们在阿尔戈斯人中拥有很大的权力。我飞翔是为了逃避他们手中的死亡，因此我注定要成为地球表面的一个流浪者。我是你的恳求者；因此，带我上你的船，这样他们就不会杀了我，因为我知道他们正在追赶我。”

‘I will not refuse you,’ replied Telemachus, ‘if you wish to join us. Come, therefore, and in Ithaca we will treat you hospitably according to what we have.’
“如果你愿意加入我们，我不会拒绝你，”忒勒马科斯回答道。因此，请来吧，在伊萨卡，我们将根据我们所拥有的条件热情款待您。

On this he received Theoclymenus’ spear and laid it down on the deck of the ship. He went on board and sat in the stern, bidding Theoclymenus sit beside him; then the men let go the hawsers. Telemachus told them to catch hold of the ropes, and they made all haste to do so. They set the mast in its socket in the cross plank, raised it and made it fast with the forestays, and they hoisted their white sails with sheets of twisted ox hide. Minerva sent them a fair wind that blew fresh and strong to take the ship on her course as fast as possible. Thus then they passed by Crouni and Chalcis.
就在这时，他收到了泰奥克里米努斯的长矛，并将其放在船的甲板上。他上了船，坐在船尾，吩咐泰奥克里米努斯坐在他旁边。然后人们松开了缆索。忒勒马科斯让他们抓住绳子，他们赶紧去做。他们把桅杆插进十字木板的插座里，升起，用前撑固定住，然后用扭曲的牛皮片升起白色的帆。密涅瓦为他们送来了一阵清新而强劲的顺风，让船尽快驶向航线。就这样，他们经过了克罗尼和哈尔基斯。

Presently the sun set and darkness was over all the land. The vessel made a quick passage to Pheae and thence on to Elis, where the Epeans rule. Telemachus then headed her for the flying islands, {132} wondering within himself whether he should escape death or should be taken prisoner.
不久，太阳落山了，黑暗笼罩了大地。该船快速驶往菲埃 (Pheae)，然后前往埃皮安人统治的埃利斯 (Elis)。然后忒勒马科斯带着她前往飞翔的岛屿，{132}内心想知道自己是否应该逃脱死亡还是应该被俘虏。

Meanwhile Ulysses and the swineherd were eating their supper in the hut, and the men supped with them. As soon as they had had to eat and drink, Ulysses began trying to prove the swineherd and see whether he would continue to treat him kindly, and ask him to stay on at the station or pack him off to the city; so he said:
与此同时，尤利西斯和猪倌正在小屋里吃晚饭，人们也和他们一起吃晚饭。等他们吃饱喝足后，尤利西斯就开始向猪倌证明，看他是否会继续善待他，并要求他留在车站，还是送他进城；但他却拒绝了。所以他说：

‘Eumaeus, and all of you, to-morrow I want to go away and begin begging about the town, so as to be no more trouble to you or to your men. Give me your advice therefore, and let me have a good guide to go with me and show me the way. I will go the round of the city begging as I needs must, to see if any one will give me a drink and a piece of bread. I should like also to go to the house of Ulysses and bring news of her husband to Queen Penelope. I could then go about among the suitors and see if out of all their abundance they will give me a dinner. I should soon make them an excellent servant in all sorts of ways. Listen and believe when I tell you that by the blessing of Mercury who gives grace and good name to the works of all men, there is no one living who would make a more handy servant than I should—to put fresh wood on the fire, chop fuel, carve, cook, pour out wine, and do all those services that poor men have to do for their betters.’
“Eumaeus，还有你们所有人，明天我要离开并开始在镇上乞讨，以免再给你们或你们的部下带来麻烦。因此，请给我你的建议，让我有一个好的向导陪伴我，为我指明道路。我会在必要时绕城乞讨，看看是否有人能给我一杯饮料和一块面包。我还想去尤利西斯的家，把她丈夫的消息告诉佩内洛普王后。然后我就可以在求婚者中间走一圈，看看他们是否愿意给我一顿晚餐。我很快就会让他们成为各方面都优秀的仆人。听着，相信我告诉你，在水星的祝福下，水星给所有人的工作带来了恩典和美名，没有人比我更能成为一名得心应手的仆人——把新鲜的木头放在火上，砍柴、雕刻、做饭、倒酒，做所有穷人为了更好的人而必须做的事情。”

The swineherd was very much disturbed when he heard this. ‘Heaven help me,’ he exclaimed, ‘what ever can have put such a notion as that into your head? If you go near the suitors you will be undone to a certainty, for their pride and insolence reach the very heavens. They would never think of taking a man like you for a servant. Their servants are all young men, well dressed, wearing good cloaks and shirts, with well looking faces and their hair always tidy, the tables are kept quite clean and are loaded with bread, meat, and wine. Stay where you are, then; you are not in anybody’s way; I do not mind your being here, no more do any of the others, and when Telemachus comes home he will give you a shirt and cloak and will send you wherever you want to go.’
猪倌听了这话，非常不安。 “上帝保佑我，”他惊呼道，“是什么让你产生了这样的想法？如果你接近追求者，你肯定会遭到毁灭，因为他们的傲慢和傲慢达到了天堂。他们绝不会想到收你这样的人为奴。他们的仆人都是年轻男子，衣冠楚楚，穿着上好的斗篷和衬衫，面容英俊，头发总是整齐，桌子收拾得干干净净，摆满了面包、肉和酒。那么，呆在原地吧；你不妨碍任何人；我不介意你在这里，其他人也不介意，当忒勒马科斯回家时，他会给你一件衬衫和斗篷，并会送你去任何你想去的地方。

Ulysses answered, ‘I hope you may be as dear to the gods as you are to me, for having saved me from going about and getting into trouble; there is nothing worse than being always on the tramp; still, when men have once got low down in the world they will go through a great deal on behalf of their miserable bellies. Since, however, you press me to stay here and await the return of Telemachus, tell me about Ulysses’ mother, and his father whom he left on the threshold of old age when he set out for Troy. Are they still living or are they already dead and in the house of Hades?’
尤利西斯回答说：“我希望诸神对你就像对我一样亲爱，因为你救了我，使我免于陷入困境；没有什么比永远流浪更糟糕的了。然而，当人们一旦在世界上地位低下时，他们就会为了他们可怜的肚子而经历很多事情。然而，既然你强迫我留在这里等待特勒马科斯回来，请告诉我尤利西斯的母亲和他的父亲，他在出发前往特洛伊时将他留在了老年。他们还活着还是已经死在哈迪斯的房子里了？

‘I will tell you all about them,’ replied Eumaeus, ‘Laertes is still living and prays heaven to let him depart peacefully in his own house, for he is terribly distressed about the absence of his son, and also about the death of his wife, which grieved him greatly and aged him more than anything else did. She came to an unhappy end {133} through sorrow for her son: may no friend or neighbour who has dealt kindly by me come to such an end as she did. As long as she was still living, though she was always grieving, I used to like seeing her and asking her how she did, for she brought me up along with her daughter Ctimene, the youngest of her children; we were boy and girl together, and she made little difference between us. When, however, we both grew up, they sent Ctimene to Same and received a splendid dowry for her. As for me, my mistress gave me a good shirt and cloak with a pair of sandals for my feet, and sent me off into the country, but she was just as fond of me as ever. This is all over now. Still it has pleased heaven to prosper my work in the situation which I now hold. I have enough to eat and drink, and can find something for any respectable stranger who comes here; but there is no getting a kind word or deed out of my mistress, for the house has fallen into the hands of wicked people. Servants want sometimes to see their mistress and have a talk with her; they like to have something to eat and drink at the house, and something too to take back with them into the country. This is what will keep servants in a good humour.’
“我会告诉你所有关于他们的事情，”尤迈乌斯回答道，“莱阿提斯还活着，他祈求上天让他在自己的家里平静地离开，因为他对儿子的失踪和他儿子的去世感到非常悲伤。”妻子，这让他非常悲伤，也比其他任何事情都更让他变老。由于对儿子的悲伤，她的结局不幸福{133}：愿对我友善的朋友或邻居都没有像她那样的结局。只要她还活着，尽管她总是悲伤，我还是喜欢见到她，问她过得怎么样，因为她把我和她最小的孩子克蒂梅妮一起抚养长大；我们都是男孩和女孩，她对我们没有什么区别。然而，当我们都长大后，他们把克蒂梅内送到萨姆那里，并为她提供了一份丰厚的嫁妆。至于我，我的女主人给了我一件上好的衬衫和斗篷，脚上穿了一双凉鞋，并送我去了乡下，但她还是一如既往地喜欢我。现在一切都结束了。尽管如此，在我现在所处的情况下，我的工作仍能顺利进行，老天爷还是很高兴的。我有足够的吃的和喝的，并且可以为任何来到这里的受人尊敬的陌生人找到一些东西；但我的女主人却没有一句善意的话，也没有做出任何善行，因为房子已经落入恶人之手。仆人们有时想见见他们的女主人并与她谈谈。他们喜欢在家里吃点东西、喝点东西，也喜欢带一些东西回乡下。这将使仆人保持良好的心情。

Ulysses answered, ‘Then you must have been a very little fellow, Eumaeus, when you were taken so far away from your home and parents. Tell me, and tell me true, was the city in which your father and mother lived sacked and pillaged, or did some enemies carry you off when you were alone tending sheep or cattle, ship you off here, and sell you for whatever your master gave them?’
尤利西斯回答说：“那么，尤迈厄斯，当你被带到远离家乡和父母的地方时，你一定是个很小的家伙。告诉我，说实话，你父母居住的城市曾被洗劫和掠夺，或者当你独自放羊或放牛时，有敌人把你带走，把你运到这里，以任何你主人的价格卖掉你给了他们？

‘Stranger,’ replied Eumaeus, ‘as regards your question: sit still, make yourself comfortable, drink your wine, and listen to me. The nights are now at their longest; there is plenty of time both for sleeping and sitting up talking together; you ought not to go to bed till bed time, too much sleep is as bad as too little; if any one of the others wishes to go to bed let him leave us and do so; he can then take my master’s pigs out when he has done breakfast in the morning. We too will sit here eating and drinking in the hut, and telling one another stories about our misfortunes; for when a man has suffered much, and been buffeted about in the world, he takes pleasure in recalling the memory of sorrows that have long gone by. As regards your question, then, my tale is as follows:
“陌生人，”尤迈乌斯回答道，“至于你的问题：坐下来，让自己舒服一点，喝点酒，听我说。现在黑夜最长。有充足的时间睡觉和坐着聊天；你不应该在就寝时间之前上床睡觉，睡得太多和太少一样不好；如果其他人中有人想睡觉，就让他离开我们去睡觉吧；早上吃完早饭后，他就可以把我主人的猪带出去了。我们也会坐在这里，在小屋里吃吃喝喝，互相讲述我们的不幸故事；因为，当一个人在世上受过很多苦难、遭受过很多打击时，他就会以回忆早已过去的悲伤为乐。对于你的问题，我的故事如下：

‘You may have heard of an island called Syra that lies over above Ortygia, {134} where the land begins to turn round and look in another direction. {135} It is not very thickly peopled, but the soil is good, with much pasture fit for cattle and sheep, and it abounds with wine and wheat. Dearth never comes there, nor are the people plagued by any sickness, but when they grow old Apollo comes with Diana and kills them with his painless shafts. It contains two communities, and the whole country is divided between these two. My father Ctesius son of Ormenus, a man comparable to the gods, reigned over both.
‘你可能听说过一个叫做锡拉的岛屿，位于奥提伽岛上方，{134} 那里的土地开始转向另一个方向。 135. 这里人口不多，但土地肥沃，有许多适合牛羊的牧场，盛产酒和小麦。那里从来没有匮乏，人们也没有受到任何疾病的困扰，但当他们年老时，阿波罗会带着黛安娜来，用他无痛的箭矢杀死他们。它包含两个社区，整个国家分为这两个社区。我的父亲克特修斯是奥美努斯的儿子，他是一位堪比众神的人，统治着这两个国家。

‘Now to this place there came some cunning traders from Phoenicia (for the Phoenicians are great mariners) in a ship which they had freighted with gewgaws of all kinds. There happened to be a Phoenician woman in my father’s house, very tall and comely, and an excellent servant; these scoundrels got hold of her one day when she was washing near their ship, seduced her, and cajoled her in ways that no woman can resist, no matter how good she may be by nature. The man who had seduced her asked her who she was and where she came from, and on this she told him her father’s name. ‘I come from Sidon,’ said she, ‘and am daughter to Arybas, a man rolling in wealth. One day as I was coming into the town from the country, some Taphian pirates seized me and took me here over the sea, where they sold me to the man who owns this house, and he gave them their price for me.’
“现在，有一些狡猾的商人从腓尼基来到这个地方（因为腓尼基人是伟大的水手），他们乘坐的船载有各种奇葩。我父亲家里恰好有一个腓尼基女人，身材高大、美丽，是一位出色的仆人。有一天，当她在他们的船附近洗澡时，这些恶棍抓住了她，引诱她，并以任何女人都无法抗拒的方式哄骗她，无论她的本性有多好。引诱她的男人问她是谁，从哪里来，她告诉了他她父亲的名字。 “我来自西顿，”她说，“是阿里巴斯的女儿，阿里巴斯是一个富有的人。有一天，当我从乡下进城时，一些塔菲亚海盗抓住了我，把我带到了海上，他们把我卖给了这所房子的主人，他给了他们买我的价格。

‘The man who had seduced her then said, ‘Would you like to come along with us to see the house of your parents and your parents themselves? They are both alive and are said to be well off.’
“那个引诱她的男人接着说：‘你愿意和我们一起去看看你父母的房子和你父母本人吗？他们都还活着，据说也很富裕。”

‘‘I will do so gladly,’ answered she, ‘if you men will first swear me a solemn oath that you will do me no harm by the way.’
“我很乐意这样做，”她回答道，“如果你们能先向我庄严发誓，顺便保证不会伤害我。”

‘They all swore as she told them, and when they had completed their oath the woman said, ‘Hush; and if any of your men meets me in the street or at the well, do not let him speak to me, for fear some one should go and tell my master, in which case he would suspect something. He would put me in prison, and would have all of you murdered; keep your own counsel therefore; buy your merchandise as fast as you can, and send me word when you have done loading. I will bring as much gold as I can lay my hands on, and there is something else also that I can do towards paying my fare. I am nurse to the son of the good man of the house, a funny little fellow just able to run about. I will carry him off in your ship, and you will get a great deal of money for him if you take him and sell him in foreign parts.’
“他们都按照她所说的那样起誓，当他们完成誓言时，那个女人说：‘嘘；别说话，别说话。’”如果你的手下有人在街上或井边遇见我，不要让他跟我说话，以免有人去告诉我的主人，这样他就会怀疑什么。他会把我关进监狱，然后把你们所有人都杀掉；因此，请保留自己的想法；尽快购买您的商品，并在装货完毕后给我发消息。我会带尽可能多的黄金，而且我还可以做其他事情来支付车费。我是家里好人儿子的护士，一个有趣的小家伙，只会跑来跑去。我会用你的船把他带走，如果你把他带走并在国外卖掉，你会得到很多钱。

‘On this she went back to the house. The Phoenicians stayed a whole year till they had loaded their ship with much precious merchandise, and then, when they had got freight enough, they sent to tell the woman. Their messenger, a very cunning fellow, came to my father’s house bringing a necklace of gold with amber beads strung among it; and while my mother and the servants had it in their hands admiring it and bargaining about it, he made a sign quietly to the woman and then went back to the ship, whereon she took me by the hand and led me out of the house. In the fore part of the house she saw the tables set with the cups of guests who had been feasting with my father, as being in attendance on him; these were now all gone to a meeting of the public assembly, so she snatched up three cups and carried them off in the bosom of her dress, while I followed her, for I knew no better. The sun was now set, and darkness was over all the land, so we hurried on as fast as we could till we reached the harbour, where the Phoenician ship was lying. When they had got on board they sailed their ways over the sea, taking us with them, and Jove sent then a fair wind; six days did we sail both night and day, but on the seventh day Diana struck the woman and she fell heavily down into the ship’s hold as though she were a sea gull alighting on the water; so they threw her overboard to the seals and fishes, and I was left all sorrowful and alone. Presently the winds and waves took the ship to Ithaca, where Laertes gave sundry of his chattels for me, and thus it was that ever I came to set eyes upon this country.’
”说完她就回到了屋子。腓尼基人在那里待了整整一年，直到他们在船上装满了许多珍贵的货物，然后，当他们收到足够的货物时，他们派人去告诉那个女人。他们的使者是一个非常狡猾的家伙，他带着一条金项链来到我父亲的家，项链上串着琥珀珠子。当我的母亲和仆人们把它拿在手里欣赏并讨价还价时，他悄悄地向那个女人做了个手势，然后回到船上，她拉着我的手，带我走出了房子。在房子的前面，她看到桌子上摆着与我父亲一起用餐的客人的杯子，他们正在侍候他。现在这些东西都去参加公众集会了，所以她抓起三个杯子，把它们放在裙子的怀里，我跟着她，因为我不知道更多。太阳已经落山了，黑暗笼罩了大地，所以我们尽可能快地赶路，直到到达港口，腓尼基船停泊在那里。当他们上船后，他们带着我们在海上航行，然后朱庇特送来了一阵顺风。我们日夜航行了六天，但第七天戴安娜击中了那个女人，她重重地摔进了船舱，就像一只落在水面上的海鸥一样。于是他们把她扔到海里去，让海豹和鱼吃掉，只剩下我悲伤而孤独。不久，风浪把船带到了伊萨卡岛，雷尔提斯在那里为我提供了他的各种动产，就这样我才第一次看到了这个国家。

Ulysses answered, ‘Eumaeus, I have heard the story of your misfortunes with the most lively interest and pity, but Jove has given you good as well as evil, for in spite of everything you have a good master, who sees that you always have enough to eat and drink; and you lead a good life, whereas I am still going about begging my way from city to city.’
尤利西斯回答道：“尤迈厄斯，我怀着极大的兴趣和怜悯听了你的不幸故事，但朱庇特既给了你善，也给了你恶，因为无论发生什么，你都有一个好主人，他看到你总是有吃饱喝足；你过着很好的生活，而我却仍在从一个城市到另一个城市乞讨。”

Thus did they converse, and they had only a very little time left for sleep, for it was soon daybreak. In the mean time Telemachus and his crew were nearing land, so they loosed the sails, took down the mast, and rowed the ship into the harbour. {136} They cast out their mooring stones and made fast the hawsers; they then got out upon the sea shore, mixed their wine, and got dinner ready. As soon as they had had enough to eat and drink Telemachus said, ‘Take the ship on to the town, but leave me here, for I want to look after the herdsmen on one of my farms. In the evening, when I have seen all I want, I will come down to the city, and to-morrow morning in return for your trouble I will give you all a good dinner with meat and wine.’ {137}
他们就这样交谈着，只剩下很少的时间睡觉了，因为天很快就亮了。与此同时，忒勒马科斯和他的船员们已接近陆地，于是他们松开帆，拆下桅杆，把船划入港口。 136 他们把系泊石扔掉，把缆索系紧；然后他们来到海边，调酒，准备晚餐。他们吃饱喝足后，忒勒马科斯说道：“把船开到城里，但把我留在这里，因为我要照顾我的一个农场的牧民。”晚上，等我想看的都看完了，我就下城来，明天早上，为了报答你们的劳苦，我会给你们大家一顿丰盛的晚餐，有肉有酒。’{137}

Then Theoclymenus said, ‘And what, my dear young friend, is to become of me? To whose house, among all your chief men, am I to repair? or shall I go straight to your own house and to your mother?’
然后泰奥克里米努斯说道：“那么，我亲爱的年轻朋友，我会变成什么样子呢？”在你们所有的首领中，我该修理谁的房子呢？还是我直接去你家和你母亲那里？

‘At any other time,’ replied Telemachus, ‘I should have bidden you go to my own house, for you would find no want of hospitality; at the present moment, however, you would not be comfortable there, for I shall be away, and my mother will not see you; she does not often show herself even to the suitors, but sits at her loom weaving in an upper chamber, out of their way; but I can tell you a man whose house you can go to—I mean Eurymachus the son of Polybus, who is held in the highest estimation by every one in Ithaca. He is much the best man and the most persistent wooer, of all those who are paying court to my mother and trying to take Ulysses’ place. Jove, however, in heaven alone knows whether or no they will come to a bad end before the marriage takes place.’
“在任何其他时候，”忒勒马科斯回答道，“我应该请你去我自己的家里，因为你会发现不缺热情的款待。不过，现在你在那里会感到不舒服，因为我要离开，我母亲也不会见到你。她甚至不经常在求婚者面前露面，而是坐在楼上房间的织机旁织布，避开他们。但我可以告诉你一个人，你可以去他的家里——我指的是波吕波斯的儿子欧律马科斯，他受到伊萨卡每个人的高度评价。在所有向我母亲求爱并试图取代尤利西斯的人中，他是最好的男人和最坚持不懈的追求者。然而，只有天知道他们在结婚之前是否会有糟糕的结局。

As he was speaking a bird flew by upon his right hand—a hawk, Apollo’s messenger. It held a dove in its talons, and the feathers, as it tore them off, {138} fell to the ground midway between Telemachus and the ship. On this Theoclymenus called him apart and caught him by the hand. ‘Telemachus,’ said he, ‘that bird did not fly on your right hand without having been sent there by some god. As soon as I saw it I knew it was an omen; it means that you will remain powerful and that there will be no house in Ithaca more royal than your own.’
当他说话的时候，一只鸟从他的右手边飞过——一只鹰，阿波罗的使者。它的爪子里抓着一只鸽子，当它把羽毛扯下来时，{138}掉到了特勒马科斯和船之间的地面上。就在这时，泰奥克里米努斯把他叫到一边，并抓住了他的手。 “忒勒马科斯，”他说，“那只鸟飞到你的右手边，不是某个神派来的。我一看到它，就知道这是一个预兆；这意味着您将保持强大，并且伊萨卡没有比您自己的家族更皇家的家族了。

‘I wish it may prove so,’ answered Telemachus. ‘If it does, I will show you so much good will and give you so many presents that all who meet you will congratulate you.’
“我希望事实如此，”忒勒马科斯回答道。 “如果是的话，我会向你表达很多善意，并送给你很多礼物，让所有见到你的人都会祝贺你。”

Then he said to his friend Piraeus, ‘Piraeus, son of Clytius, you have throughout shown yourself the most willing to serve me of all those who have accompanied me to Pylos; I wish you would take this stranger to your own house and entertain him hospitably till I can come for him.’
然后他对他的朋友比雷埃夫斯说：“克利提乌斯之子比雷埃夫斯，在所有陪我到皮洛斯的人中，你始终表现出最愿意为我服务的人。我希望你能把这个陌生人带到你自己的家里，热情地招待他，直到我来接他为止。

And Piraeus answered, ‘Telemachus, you may stay away as long as you please, but I will look after him for you, and he shall find no lack of hospitality.’
比雷埃夫斯回答说：“忒勒马科斯，你想离开多久就离开多久，但我会替你照顾他，他不会缺少热情好客的。”

As he spoke he went on board, and bade the others do so also and loose the hawsers, so they took their places in the ship. But Telemachus bound on his sandals, and took a long and doughty spear with a head of sharpened bronze from the deck of the ship. Then they loosed the hawsers, thrust the ship off from land, and made on towards the city as they had been told to do, while Telemachus strode on as fast as he could, till he reached the homestead where his countless herds of swine were feeding, and where dwelt the excellent swineherd, who was so devoted a servant to his master.
他一边说着，一边上船，并吩咐其他人也这样做，松开缆索，于是他们就在船上就座了。但特勒马科斯穿上凉鞋，从船的甲板上取出了一把长而坚韧的长矛，矛头是锋利的青铜。然后他们松开缆绳，把船推离陆地，按照他们的指示向城市驶去，而忒勒马科斯则以最快的速度大步前进，直到他到达了他的家园，那里有无数的猪群正在吃草。那里住着一位优秀的猪倌，他是主人的忠实仆人。

BOOK XVI
第十六册

ULYSSES REVEALS HIMSELF TO TELEMACHUS.
尤利西斯向忒勒马科斯显露自己。

Meanwhile Ulysses and the swineherd had lit a fire in the hut and were were getting breakfast ready at daybreak, for they had sent the men out with the pigs. When Telemachus came up, the dogs did not bark but fawned upon him, so Ulysses, hearing the sound of feet and noticing that the dogs did not bark, said to Eumaeus:
与此同时，尤利西斯和猪倌在小屋里生了火，天一亮就开始准备早餐，因为他们已经把人带着猪出去了。当特勒马科斯出现时，狗并没有吠叫，而是对他阿谀奉承，因此尤利西斯听到脚步声并注意到狗没有吠叫，就对欧迈俄斯说：

‘Eumaeus, I hear footsteps; I suppose one of your men or some one of your acquaintance is coming here, for the dogs are fawning upon him and not barking.’
“Eumaeus，我听到脚步声；我想你的一个手下或者你的一个熟人正来这里，因为狗正在向他阿谀奉承，而不是吠叫。

The words were hardly out of his mouth before his son stood at the door. Eumaeus sprang to his feet, and the bowls in which he was mixing wine fell from his hands, as he made towards his master. He kissed his head and both his beautiful eyes, and wept for joy. A father could not be more delighted at the return of an only son, the child of his old age, after ten years’ absence in a foreign country and after having gone through much hardship. He embraced him, kissed him all over as though he had come back from the dead, and spoke fondly to him saying:
话音刚落，儿子就站在了门口。欧迈俄斯跳了起来，当他走向他的主人时，他手中调酒的碗掉了下来。他吻了吻他的头和他美丽的眼睛，高兴得哭了。一位父亲在异国他乡十年、历经千辛万苦后，看到晚年所生的独生子归来，感到无比欣喜。他拥抱了他，亲吻了他的全身，仿佛他死而复生，并深情地对他说道：

‘So you are come, Telemachus, light of my eyes that you are. When I heard you had gone to Pylos I made sure I was never going to see you any more. Come in, my dear child, and sit down, that I may have a good look at you now you are home again; it is not very often you come into the country to see us herdsmen; you stick pretty close to the town generally. I suppose you think it better to keep an eye on what the suitors are doing.’
‘原来你来了，特勒马科斯，你是我眼中的光芒。当我听说你去了皮洛斯时，我确信我再也不会见到你了。进来吧，我亲爱的孩子，坐下来，我可以好好看看你，现在你又回到家了；你们来乡下看我们牧民的次数并不多。一般来说，你离城镇很近。我想你认为最好留意一下追求者在做什么。

‘So be it, old friend,’ answered Telemachus, ‘but I am come now because I want to see you, and to learn whether my mother is still at her old home or whether some one else has married her, so that the bed of Ulysses is without bedding and covered with cobwebs.’
“那就这样吧，老朋友，”忒勒马科斯回答道，“但是我现在来是因为我想见你，想知道我的母亲是否还在她的老家，或者是否有人已经娶了她，这样床就可以了。” 《尤利西斯》没有被褥，上面布满了蜘蛛网。

‘She is still at the house,’ replied Eumaeus, ‘grieving and breaking her heart, and doing nothing but weep, both night and day continually.’
“她还在家里，”尤迈乌斯回答道，“她伤心欲绝，除了日夜不停地哭泣之外，什么也不做。”

As he spoke he took Telemachus’ spear, whereon he crossed the stone threshold and came inside. Ulysses rose from his seat to give him place as he entered, but Telemachus checked him; ‘Sit down, stranger,’ said he, ‘I can easily find another seat, and there is one here who will lay it for me.’
说话间，他拿起忒勒马科斯的长矛，跨过石坎，走进了屋内。当尤利西斯进来时，他从座位上站起来给他让座，但特勒马科斯制止了他。 “坐下吧，陌生人，”他说，“我很容易找到另一个座位，这里有人会为我安排座位。”

Ulysses went back to his own place, and Eumaeus strewed some green brushwood on the floor and threw a sheepskin on top of it for Telemachus to sit upon. Then the swineherd brought them platters of cold meat, the remains from what they had eaten the day before, and he filled the bread baskets with bread as fast as he could. He mixed wine also in bowls of ivy-wood, and took his seat facing Ulysses. Then they laid their hands on the good things that were before them, and as soon as they had had enough to eat and drink Telemachus said to Eumaeus, ‘Old friend, where does this stranger come from? How did his crew bring him to Ithaca, and who were they?—for assuredly he did not come here by land.’
尤利西斯回到自己的住处，尤迈俄斯在地板上撒了一些绿色的灌木丛，并在上面铺了一张羊皮，让特勒马科斯坐在上面。然后，猪倌给他们端来了几盘冷肉，这是他们前一天吃的剩下的肉，他以最快的速度把面包装满了面包篮。他也在常春藤木碗里调酒，然后面向尤利西斯坐下。然后他们把手放在面前的好东西上，当他们吃饱喝足后，忒勒马科斯对欧迈乌斯说：“老朋友，这个陌生人来自哪里？他的船员是怎么把他带到伊萨卡的，他们是谁？——他肯定不是从陆路来到这里的。

To this you answered, O swineherd Eumaeus, ‘My son, I will tell you the real truth. He says he is a Cretan, and that he has been a great traveller. At this moment he is running away from a Thesprotian ship, and has taken refuge at my station, so I will put him into your hands. Do whatever you like with him, only remember that he is your suppliant.’
对此，猪倌尤迈厄斯啊，你回答道：“我的孩子，我会告诉你真相。”他说他是克里特岛人，而且他是一位伟大的旅行者。此刻他正在逃离塞斯普罗提亚的一艘船，并在我的驻地避难，所以我将把他交到你手中。你想对他做什么就做什么，只要记住他是你的恳求者。

‘I am very much distressed,’ said Telemachus, ‘by what you have just told me. How can I take this stranger into my house? I am as yet young, and am not strong enough to hold my own if any man attacks me. My mother cannot make up her mind whether to stay where she is and look after the house out of respect for public opinion and the memory of her husband, or whether the time is now come for her to take the best man of those who are wooing her, and the one who will make her the most advantageous offer; still, as the stranger has come to your station I will find him a cloak and shirt of good wear, with a sword and sandals, and will send him wherever he wants to go. Or if you like you can keep him here at the station, and I will send him clothes and food that he may be no burden on you and on your men; but I will not have him go near the suitors, for they are very insolent, and are sure to ill treat him in a way that would greatly grieve me; no matter how valiant a man may be he can do nothing against numbers, for they will be too strong for him.’
“我对你刚才告诉我的事情感到非常难过，”忒勒马科斯说道。我怎样才能把这个陌生人带进我家呢？我还年轻，如果有人攻击我，我的力量还不够强大。我母亲拿不定主意，是出于对舆论和对丈夫的记忆的尊重，留在原地看家，还是该从那些追求者中挑选出最好的男人了。她，以及能为她提供最有利条件的人；不过，当这个陌生人来到你的车站时，我会为他找到一件好穿的斗篷和衬衫，配上一把剑和凉鞋，然后把他送到任何他想去的地方。或者，如果你愿意，你可以把他留在车站，我会给他送衣服和食物，这样他就不会成为你和你的人的负担；但我不会让他靠近求婚者，因为他们非常无礼，而且肯定会以一种会让我非常伤心的方式虐待他。无论一个人多么勇敢，他都无法对抗人数，因为他们对他来说太强大了。

Then Ulysses said, ‘Sir, it is right that I should say something myself. I am much shocked about what you have said about the insolent way in which the suitors are behaving in despite of such a man as you are. Tell me, do you submit to such treatment tamely, or has some god set your people against you? May you not complain of your brothers—for it is to these that a man may look for support, however great his quarrel may be? I wish I were as young as you are and in my present mind; if I were son to Ulysses, or, indeed, Ulysses himself, I would rather some one came and cut my head off, but I would go to the house and be the bane of every one of these men. {139} If they were too many for me—I being single-handed—I would rather die fighting in my own house than see such disgraceful sights day after day, strangers grossly maltreated, and men dragging the women servants about the house in an unseemly way, wine drawn recklessly, and bread wasted all to no purpose for an end that shall never be accomplished.’
尤利西斯说道：“先生，我应该亲自说点什么，这是对的。”我对你所说的关于追求者的行为方式感到非常震惊，尽管你是这样的人。告诉我，你是顺从地接受这样的待遇，还是有什么神让你的人民反对你？难道你不能抱怨你的兄弟——因为无论争吵有多大，一个人都可以向他们寻求支持？我希望我像你一样年轻，并且像你一样年轻；如果我是尤利西斯的儿子，或者事实上，尤利西斯本人，我宁愿有人来砍掉我的头，但我会回到房子里，成为这些人中每一个人的祸害。 {139}如果他们对我来说太多了——我是一个人——我宁愿死在自己的房子里，也不愿日复一日地看到这种可耻的景象，陌生人受到严重虐待，男人拖着女仆在房子里走来走去不合时宜的方式、鲁莽地饮酒、毫无目的地浪费面包，以达到永远无法实现的目的。”

And Telemachus answered, ‘I will tell you truly everything. There is no enmity between me and my people, nor can I complain of brothers, to whom a man may look for support however great his quarrel may be. Jove has made us a race of only sons. Laertes was the only son of Arceisius, and Ulysses only son of Laertes. I am myself the only son of Ulysses who left me behind him when he went away, so that I have never been of any use to him. Hence it comes that my house is in the hands of numberless marauders; for the chiefs from all the neighbouring islands, Dulichium, Same, Zacynthus, as also all the principal men of Ithaca itself, are eating up my house under the pretext of paying court to my mother, who will neither say point blank that she will not marry, nor yet bring matters to an end, so they are making havoc of my estate, and before long will do so with myself into the bargain. The issue, however, rests with heaven. But do you, old friend Eumaeus, go at once and tell Penelope that I am safe and have returned from Pylos. Tell it to herself alone, and then come back here without letting any one else know, for there are many who are plotting mischief against me.’
忒勒马科斯回答说：“我会真实地告诉你一切。”我与我的人民之间没有敌意，我也不能抱怨兄弟，无论争吵有多大，都可以向他们寻求支持。朱庇特使我们成为独生子的种族。雷欧提斯是阿尔塞修斯唯一的儿子，尤利西斯也是雷欧提斯唯一的儿子。我自己是尤利西斯唯一的儿子，当他离开时，我把我留在了他身后，所以我对他从来没有任何用处。因此，我的房子落入了无数掠夺者的手中；因为来自所有邻近岛屿的酋长，杜利奇乌姆，萨姆，扎辛瑟斯，以及伊萨卡岛本身的所有主要人物，正在以讨好我母亲为借口，吃掉我的房子，而我母亲也不会直截了当地说她不会结婚，还没有结束事情，所以他们正在破坏我的财产，不久之后我也会这样做。然而，问题在于天。但是，老朋友尤迈厄斯，你是否应该立即去告诉佩内洛普我很安全并且已经从皮洛斯回来了。独自告诉她自己，然后回到这里，不要让任何人知道，因为有很多人在密谋对我进行恶作剧。

‘I understand and heed you,’ replied Eumaeus; ‘you need instruct me no further, only as I am going that way say whether I had not better let poor Laertes know that you are returned. He used to superintend the work on his farm in spite of his bitter sorrow about Ulysses, and he would eat and drink at will along with his servants; but they tell me that from the day on which you set out for Pylos he has neither eaten nor drunk as he ought to do, nor does he look after his farm, but sits weeping and wasting the flesh from off his bones.’
“我理解并听从你的意见，”尤迈乌斯回答道。 “你不需要进一步指示我，只要在我要去那条路上时告诉我我是否最好让可怜的莱尔提斯知道你回来了。尽管他对《尤利西斯》深感悲痛，但他仍然负责管理农场的工作，并与仆人一起随意吃喝。但他们告诉我，从你出发去皮洛斯的那天起，他就没有像他应该做的那样吃喝，也没有照顾他的农场，而是坐着哭泣，浪费了骨头上的肉。

‘More’s the pity,’ answered Telemachus, ‘I am sorry for him, but we must leave him to himself just now. If people could have everything their own way, the first thing I should choose would be the return of my father; but go, and give your message; then make haste back again, and do not turn out of your way to tell Laertes. Tell my mother to send one of her women secretly with the news at once, and let him hear it from her.’
“更可惜的是，”忒勒马科斯回答道，“我为他感到难过，但我们现在必须让他一个人待着。”如果人们可以为所欲为，我首先应该选择的就是父亲的归来；但是去吧，传达你的信息；然后赶紧回去，不要特意去告诉雷欧提斯。让我母亲立刻派一个女人秘密地把这个消息告诉他，让他从她那里听到。

Thus did he urge the swineherd; Eumaeus, therefore, took his sandals, bound them to his feet, and started for the town. Minerva watched him well off the station, and then came up to it in the form of a woman—fair, stately, and wise. She stood against the side of the entry, and revealed herself to Ulysses, but Telemachus could not see her, and knew not that she was there, for the gods do not let themselves be seen by everybody. Ulysses saw her, and so did the dogs, for they did not bark, but went scared and whining off to the other side of the yards. She nodded her head and motioned to Ulysses with her eyebrows; whereon he left the hut and stood before her outside the main wall of the yards. Then she said to him:
他如此催促猪倌；因此，欧迈厄斯拿起他的凉鞋，把它们绑在脚上，向城镇进发。米勒娃远远地看着他离开车站，然后化身为一位美丽、庄严、睿智的女人来到车站。她站在入口的一侧，向尤利西斯显现自己，但特勒马科斯看不到她，也不知道她在那里，因为众神不让自己被所有人看到。尤利西斯看到了她，狗们也看到了她，因为它们没有吠叫，而是害怕并哀嚎着跑到院子的另一边。她点点头，用眉毛向尤利西斯示意。随后他离开小屋，站在院子主墙外的她面前。然后她对他说：

‘Ulysses, noble son of Laertes, it is now time for you to tell your son: do not keep him in the dark any longer, but lay your plans for the destruction of the suitors, and then make for the town. I will not be long in joining you, for I too am eager for the fray.’
“尤利西斯，雷欧提斯的高贵儿子，现在是你告诉你儿子的时候了：不要再让他蒙在鼓里，而是制定你的计划，消灭求婚者，然后前往城镇。我很快就会加入你们，因为我也渴望战斗。

As she spoke she touched him with her golden wand. First she threw a fair clean shirt and cloak about his shoulders; then she made him younger and of more imposing presence; she gave him back his colour, filled out his cheeks, and let his beard become dark again. Then she went away and Ulysses came back inside the hut. His son was astounded when he saw him, and turned his eyes away for fear he might be looking upon a god.
当她说话时，她用金色魔杖碰触了他。首先，她把一件相当干净的衬衫和斗篷披在他的肩上；然后她让他变得更年轻、更有威严。她还给他颜色，填满他的脸颊，让他的胡须再次变黑。然后她离开了，尤利西斯回到小屋里。他的儿子看到他时大吃一惊，把目光移开，生怕自己看到的是神。

‘Stranger,’ said he, ‘how suddenly you have changed from what you were a moment or two ago. You are dressed differently and your colour is not the same. Are you some one or other of the gods that live in heaven? If so, be propitious to me till I can make you due sacrifice and offerings of wrought gold. Have mercy upon me.’
“陌生人，”他说，“你与一两分钟前相比，突然发生了变化。”你们的穿着不同，肤色也不一样。你是生活在天堂的一位或另一位神吗？如果是这样，请对我表示祝福，直到我能为你献上应有的祭品和锻金供品。怜悯我吧。

And Ulysses said, ‘I am no god, why should you take me for one? I am your father, on whose account you grieve and suffer so much at the hands of lawless men.’
尤利西斯说：“我不是神，你为什么要把我当成神呢？”我是你的父亲，为了你的缘故，你在不法分子手中遭受了如此多的悲伤和痛苦。

As he spoke he kissed his son, and a tear fell from his cheek on to the ground, for he had restrained all tears till now. But Telemachus could not yet believe that it was his father, and said:
他一边说着，一边亲吻了儿子，一滴泪水从他的脸颊滑落到地上，因为他到现在为止都忍住了。但特勒马科斯还不能相信那是他的父亲，他说道：

‘You are not my father, but some god is flattering me with vain hopes that I may grieve the more hereafter; no mortal man could of himself contrive to do as you have been doing, and make yourself old and young at a moment’s notice, unless a god were with him. A second ago you were old and all in rags, and now you are like some god come down from heaven.’
‘你不是我的父亲，但某个神在奉承我，徒劳地希望我以后会更加悲伤；除非有神与他同在，否则没有一个凡人能够自己设法像你所做的那样，让自己瞬间变老或年轻。前一秒你还老了，衣衫褴褛，现在你就像天上下来的神一样。

Ulysses answered, ‘Telemachus, you ought not to be so immeasurably astonished at my being really here. There is no other Ulysses who will come hereafter. Such as I am, it is I, who after long wandering and much hardship have got home in the twentieth year to my own country. What you wonder at is the work of the redoubtable goddess Minerva, who does with me whatever she will, for she can do what she pleases. At one moment she makes me like a beggar, and the next I am a young man with good clothes on my back; it is an easy matter for the gods who live in heaven to make any man look either rich or poor.’
尤利西斯回答说：“忒勒马科斯，你不应该对我真的在这里感到无比惊讶。”此后不会有其他尤利西斯出现。像我这样的人，经过长期的漂泊，历经千辛万苦，在第二十年回到了自己的祖国。你惊奇的是令人敬畏的女神密涅瓦的杰作，她对我为所欲为，因为她可以为所欲为。一会儿她让我像个乞丐，一会儿我就变成了一个穿着好衣服的年轻人；对于生活在天上的神来说，让任何人看起来富有或贫穷是一件很容易的事情。

As he spoke he sat down, and Telemachus threw his arms about his father and wept. They were both so much moved that they cried aloud like eagles or vultures with crooked talons that have been robbed of their half fledged young by peasants. Thus piteously did they weep, and the sun would have gone down upon their mourning if Telemachus had not suddenly said, ‘In what ship, my dear father, did your crew bring you to Ithaca? Of what nation did they declare themselves to be—for you cannot have come by land?’
当他说话时，他坐下来，忒勒马科斯张开双臂拥抱他的父亲，哭泣起来。他们俩都感动得放声大哭，就像鹰或秃鹫被农民抢走了自己的半羽雏鸟一样，弯着爪子。他们哭得如此可怜，如果不是忒勒马科斯突然说：“我亲爱的父亲，你的船员们是用哪艘船把你带到伊萨卡的？他们宣称自己属于哪个国家——因为你不可能是从陆路过来的？

‘I will tell you the truth, my son,’ replied Ulysses. ‘It was the Phaeacians who brought me here. They are great sailors, and are in the habit of giving escorts to any one who reaches their coasts. They took me over the sea while I was fast asleep, and landed me in Ithaca, after giving me many presents in bronze, gold, and raiment. These things by heaven’s mercy are lying concealed in a cave, and I am now come here on the suggestion of Minerva that we may consult about killing our enemies. First, therefore, give me a list of the suitors, with their number, that I may learn who, and how many, they are. I can then turn the matter over in my mind, and see whether we two can fight the whole body of them ourselves, or whether we must find others to help us.’
“我会告诉你真相，我的孩子，”尤利西斯回答道。 “是菲亚克斯人把我带到这里来的。他们是伟大的水手，习惯于护送任何到达其海岸的人。当我熟睡时，他们带我穿越大海，在送给我许多青铜、金子和衣服的礼物后，把我带到了伊萨卡岛。出于上天的仁慈，这些东西都藏在一个山洞里，现在我在密涅瓦的建议下来到这里，以便我们可以商量一下如何杀死我们的敌人。因此，首先给我一份追求者的名单，以及他们的人数，以便我可以了解他们是谁以及有多少人。我可以在脑子里翻来覆去，看看我们两个能不能自己对抗他们的整个身体，或者我们是否必须找到其他人来帮助我们。

To this Telemachus answered, ‘Father, I have always heard of your renown both in the field and in council, but the task you talk of is a very great one: I am awed at the mere thought of it; two men cannot stand against many and brave ones. There are not ten suitors only, nor twice ten, but ten many times over; you shall learn their number at once. There are fifty-two chosen youths from Dulichium, and they have six servants; from Same there are twenty-four; twenty young Achaeans from Zacynthus, and twelve from Ithaca itself, all of them well born. They have with them a servant Medon, a bard, and two men who can carve at table. If we face such numbers as this, you may have bitter cause to rue your coming, and your revenge. See whether you cannot think of some one who would be willing to come and help us.’
对此，特勒马科斯回答说：“父亲，我一直听说您在战场上和议会中享有盛誉，但您所说的任务是一项非常艰巨的任务：光是想到它我就感到敬畏；两个人无法对抗众多勇敢的人。追求者不是只有十个，也不是十倍，而是十倍以上；您将立即得知他们的号码。杜利奇乌姆有五十二名被选中的年轻人，他们有六名仆人。从同一处有二十四个；二十个来自扎辛图斯的年轻亚该亚人，还有十二个来自伊萨卡本地，他们都是出身名门。他们身边有一个仆人梅东、一个吟游诗人和两个会在餐桌上雕刻的人。如果我们面对这样的数字，你可能会有痛苦的理由后悔你的到来和你的复仇。看看你是否想不出有人愿意来帮助我们。

‘Listen to me,’ replied Ulysses, ‘and think whether Minerva and her father Jove may seem sufficient, or whether I am to try and find some one else as well.’
“听我说，”尤利西斯回答道，“想想密涅瓦和她的父亲朱庇特是否足够，或者我是否也应该尝试寻找其他人。”

‘Those whom you have named,’ answered Telemachus, ‘are a couple of good allies, for though they dwell high up among the clouds they have power over both gods and men.’
“你所提到的那些人，”忒勒马科斯回答道，“是一对很好的盟友，因为虽然他们居住在高高的云端，但他们拥有凌驾于诸神和人类之上的力量。”

‘These two,’ continued Ulysses, ‘will not keep long out of the fray, when the suitors and we join fight in my house. Now, therefore, return home early to-morrow morning, and go about among the suitors as before. Later on the swineherd will bring me to the city disguised as a miserable old beggar. If you see them ill treating me, steel your heart against my sufferings; even though they drag me feet foremost out of the house, or throw things at me, look on and do nothing beyond gently trying to make them behave more reasonably; but they will not listen to you, for the day of their reckoning is at hand. Furthermore I say, and lay my saying to your heart; when Minerva shall put it in my mind, I will nod my head to you, and on seeing me do this you must collect all the armour that is in the house and hide it in the strong store room. Make some excuse when the suitors ask you why you are removing it; say that you have taken it to be out of the way of the smoke, inasmuch as it is no longer what it was when Ulysses went away, but has become soiled and begrimed with soot. Add to this more particularly that you are afraid Jove may set them on to quarrel over their wine, and that they may do each other some harm which may disgrace both banquet and wooing, for the sight of arms sometimes tempts people to use them. But leave a sword and a spear apiece for yourself and me, and a couple of oxhide shields so that we can snatch them up at any moment; Jove and Minerva will then soon quiet these people. There is also another matter; if you are indeed my son and my blood runs in your veins, let no one know that Ulysses is within the house—neither Laertes, nor yet the swineherd, nor any of the servants, nor even Penelope herself. Let you and me exploit the women alone, and let us also make trial of some other of the men servants, to see who is on our side and whose hand is against us.’
“这两个人，”尤利西斯继续说道，“当追求者和我们在我的房子里加入战斗时，他们不会长时间远离这场争斗。现在，明天一早就回家，像以前一样在追求者中间走动。稍后，猪倌会伪装成一个可怜的老乞丐，把我带到城里。如果你看到他们虐待我，请坚定你的心来对抗我的痛苦；即使他们把我的脚拖出家门，或者向我扔东西，我只是在一旁看着，除了温和地试图让他们表现得更合理之外，什么也不做；但他们不会听你的，因为他们清算的日子即将来临。此外，我说，并将我的话放在你的心里；当密涅瓦将它记在我的脑海中时，我会向你点点头，看到我这样做时，你必须收集房子里的所有盔甲并将其藏在坚固的储藏室中。当追求者问你为什么要删除它时，找一些借口；说你已经把它排除在烟雾之外了，因为它不再是尤利西斯离开时的样子，而是被烟灰弄脏了。更特别的是，你担心朱庇特可能会让他们为酒而争吵，并且他们可能会互相伤害，这可能会羞辱宴会和求爱，因为看到武器有时会诱使人们使用它们。但请给你和我各留下一把剑和一把矛，以及两面牛皮盾牌，以便我们随时可以夺取它们；朱庇特和密涅瓦很快就会让这些人安静下来。还有一件事；如果你确实是我的儿子，你的血管里流着我的血，就不要让任何人知道尤利西斯就在这所房子里——无论是莱尔提斯，还是猪倌，也不是任何仆人，甚至连佩内洛普本人也不知道。 让你我单独剥削女人，让我们也审判其他一些男仆，看看谁站在我们这边，谁反对我们。’

‘Father,’ replied Telemachus, ‘you will come to know me by and by, and when you do you will find that I can keep your counsel. I do not think, however, the plan you propose will turn out well for either of us. Think it over. It will take us a long time to go the round of the farms and exploit the men, and all the time the suitors will be wasting your estate with impunity and without compunction. Prove the women by all means, to see who are disloyal and who guiltless, but I am not in favour of going round and trying the men. We can attend to that later on, if you really have some sign from Jove that he will support you.’
“父亲，”忒勒马科斯回答道，“你会逐渐认识我的，当你认识我的时候，你就会发现我会遵守你的忠告。然而，我认为你提出的计划对我们双方都不会产生好处。想一想。我们需要很长时间才能走遍农场并剥削男人，而求婚者将一直肆无忌惮地浪费你的财产，而不受惩罚，毫无悔意。无论如何都要证明女人，看看谁不忠，谁无罪，但我不赞成到处审判男人。如果你确实从朱庇特那里得到了一些迹象表明他会支持你，我们可以稍后再处理。

Thus did they converse, and meanwhile the ship which had brought Telemachus and his crew from Pylos had reached the town of Ithaca. When they had come inside the harbour they drew the ship on to the land; their servants came and took their armour from them, and they left all the presents at the house of Clytius. Then they sent a servant to tell Penelope that Telemachus had gone into the country, but had sent the ship to the town to prevent her from being alarmed and made unhappy. This servant and Eumaeus happened to meet when they were both on the same errand of going to tell Penelope. When they reached the House, the servant stood up and said to the queen in the presence of the waiting women, ‘Your son, Madam, is now returned from Pylos”; but Eumaeus went close up to Penelope, and said privately all that her son had bidden him tell her. When he had given his message he left the house with its outbuildings and went back to his pigs again.
他们就这样交谈着，与此同时，从皮洛斯载着忒勒马科斯和他的船员的船已经到达了伊萨卡镇。当他们到达港口后，他们把船拖到了陆地上。他们的仆人过来拿走了他们的盔甲，然后他们把所有的礼物留在了克利提乌斯的家里。然后他们派了一个仆人去告诉佩内洛普，忒勒马科斯已经到了乡下，但又派船到城里，以免她惊慌失措。这位仆人和尤迈乌斯碰巧相遇，当时他们都在执行同一个任务，要去告诉佩内洛普。当他们到达王宫时，仆人站起来，当着等待的妇女们的面对王后说：“夫人，您的儿子现在已经从皮洛斯回来了。”但欧迈厄斯却走近佩内洛普，私下里把她儿子吩咐他告诉她的一切都说了出来。当他传达完信息后，他离开了房子及其附属建筑，又回到了他的猪身边。

The suitors were surprised and angry at what had happened, so they went outside the great wall that ran round the outer court, and held a council near the main entrance. Eurymachus, son of Polybus, was the first to speak.
求婚者们对所发生的事情感到惊讶和愤怒，于是他们走到外院的长城外，在正门附近举行会议。波吕波斯之子欧律马科斯第一个发言。

‘My friends,’ said he, ‘this voyage of Telemachus’s is a very serious matter; we had made sure that it would come to nothing. Now, however, let us draw a ship into the water, and get a crew together to send after the others and tell them to come back as fast as they can.’
“我的朋友们，”他说，“特勒马科斯的这次航行是一件非常严肃的事情；我们已经确信它不会有结果。然而现在，让我们把一艘船拖入水中，并召集一批船员去追赶其他人，并告诉他们尽快回来。

He had hardly done speaking when Amphinomus turned in his place and saw the ship inside the harbour, with the crew lowering her sails, and putting by their oars; so he laughed, and said to the others, ‘We need not send them any message, for they are here. Some god must have told them, or else they saw the ship go by, and could not overtake her.’
他话音刚落，安菲诺莫斯就转过身来，看到船在港口里，船员们放下了帆，划起了桨。于是他笑了，对其他人说：“我们不需要给他们发任何消息，因为他们就在这里。”肯定是某个神告诉了他们，否则他们看到船经过，就追不上她了。

On this they rose and went to the water side. The crew then drew the ship on shore; their servants took their armour from them, and they went up in a body to the place of assembly, but they would not let any one old or young sit along with them, and Antinous, son of Eupeithes, spoke first.
说完，他们起身来到水边。船员们随后将船拖上岸。他们的仆人从他们手中接过盔甲，他们集体上到集合地点，但他们不让任何老人或小孩与他们坐在一起，尤佩特斯的儿子安提诺斯首先发言。

‘Good heavens,’ said he, ‘see how the gods have saved this man from destruction. We kept a succession of scouts upon the headlands all day long, and when the sun was down we never went on shore to sleep, but waited in the ship all night till morning in the hope of capturing and killing him; but some god has conveyed him home in spite of us. Let us consider how we can make an end of him. He must not escape us; our affair is never likely to come off while he is alive, for he is very shrewd, and public feeling is by no means all on our side. We must make haste before he can call the Achaeans in assembly; he will lose no time in doing so, for he will be furious with us, and will tell all the world how we plotted to kill him, but failed to take him. The people will not like this when they come to know of it; we must see that they do us no hurt, nor drive us from our own country into exile. Let us try and lay hold of him either on his farm away from the town, or on the road hither. Then we can divide up his property amongst us, and let his mother and the man who marries her have the house. If this does not please you, and you wish Telemachus to live on and hold his father’s property, then we must not gather here and eat up his goods in this way, but must make our offers to Penelope each from his own house, and she can marry the man who will give the most for her, and whose lot it is to win her.’
“天哪，”他说道，“看看诸神如何拯救这个人免遭毁灭。”我们整天在海岬上派出一连串的侦察兵，当太阳落山时，我们从不上岸睡觉，而是在船上整夜等待到早上，希望能抓住并杀死他；但有位神不顾我们的吩咐把他带回家了。让我们考虑一下怎样才能结束他。他绝不能逃离我们；他在世的时候，我们的事情是不可能成功的，因为他很精明，公众的感情也绝不是站在我们这边的。我们必须在他召集亚该亚人集会之前抓紧时间；他会立即这样做，因为他会对我们感到愤怒，并会告诉全世界我们如何密谋杀死他，但却未能抓住他。老百姓知道了，不喜欢；我们必须确保他们不会伤害我们，也不会将我们从自己的国家驱逐出去。让我们尝试在远离城镇的农场或这里的路上抓住他。然后我们就可以分割他的财产，让他的母亲和娶她的男人拥有房子。如果这不让你高兴，而你希望特勒马科斯继续生活并保留他父亲的财产，那么我们就不能聚集在这里并以这种方式吃掉他的财产，而必须从他自己的房子里向佩内洛普提出我们的提议，而她可以嫁给一个能为她付出最多的男人，并且他的命运就是赢得她。”

They all held their peace until Amphinomus rose to speak. He was the son of Nisus, who was son to king Aretias, and he was foremost among all the suitors from the wheat-growing and well grassed island of Dulichium; his conversation, moreover, was more agreeable to Penelope than that of any of the other suitors, for he was a man of good natural disposition. ‘My friends,’ said he, speaking to them plainly and in all honestly, ‘I am not in favour of killing Telemachus. It is a heinous thing to kill one who is of noble blood. Let us first take counsel of the gods, and if the oracles of Jove advise it, I will both help to kill him myself, and will urge everyone else to do so; but if they dissuade us, I would have you hold your hands.’
他们都保持沉默，直到安菲诺莫斯站起来说话。他是尼苏斯的儿子，而尼苏斯是阿雷蒂亚斯国王的儿子，他是来自杜利奇乌姆岛的所有追求者中最重要的一个，那里盛产小麦，草木茂盛。此外，佩内洛普对他的谈话比任何其他追求者都更满意，因为他是一个生性善良的人。 “我的朋友们，”他坦白而诚实地对他们说道，“我不赞成杀死忒勒马科斯。杀死一个拥有高贵血统的人，是一件令人发指的事情。让我们首先征求众神的意见，如果朱庇特的神谕建议这样做，我会亲自帮助杀死他，并会敦促其他人这样做；但如果他们劝阻我们，我会让你握住你的手。

Thus did he speak, and his words pleased them well, so they rose forthwith and went to the house of Ulysses, where they took their accustomed seats.
他这样说了，他的话让他们很高兴，所以他们立即起身前往尤利西斯的房子，在那里他们坐到了惯常的座位上。

Then Penelope resolved that she would show herself to the suitors. She knew of the plot against Telemachus, for the servant Medon had overheard their counsels and had told her; she went down therefore to the court attended by her maidens, and when she reached the suitors she stood by one of the bearing-posts supporting the roof of the cloister holding a veil before her face, and rebuked Antinous saying:
然后佩内洛普决定她要向追求者展示自己。她知道针对特勒马科斯的阴谋，因为仆人梅东无意中听到了他们的建议并告诉了她。因此，她在侍女们的陪伴下来到宫廷，当她到达求婚者时，她站在支撑修道院屋顶的一根柱子旁，脸上蒙着面纱，斥责安提诺乌斯说：

‘Antinous, insolent and wicked schemer, they say you are the best speaker and counsellor of any man your own age in Ithaca, but you are nothing of the kind. Madman, why should you try to compass the death of Telemachus, and take no heed of suppliants, whose witness is Jove himself? It is not right for you to plot thus against one another. Do you not remember how your father fled to this house in fear of the people, who were enraged against him for having gone with some Taphian pirates and plundered the Thesprotians who were at peace with us? They wanted to tear him in pieces and eat up everything he had, but Ulysses stayed their hands although they were infuriated, and now you devour his property without paying for it, and break my heart by wooing his wife and trying to kill his son. Leave off doing so, and stop the others also.’
“安提尼克、傲慢无礼、邪恶的阴谋家，他们说你是伊萨卡同龄人中最好的演说家和顾问，但你不是这样的。疯子，你为什么要试图逼迫特勒马科斯的死亡，而不理会那些恳求者，他们的证人是朱庇特本人？你们如此图谋不轨，是不对的。你不记得你的父亲是如何逃到这所房子的，因为人们害怕他和一些塔菲亚海盗一起去掠夺与我们和平相处的塞斯普罗提亚人，而人们对他感到愤怒？他们想把他撕成碎片，吃掉他所有的一切，但尤利西斯尽管激怒了他们，却不动声色，现在你却不付钱就吞噬了他的财产，追求他的妻子并试图杀死他的儿子，这让我心碎。别再这样做了，其他人也别这么做。

To this Eurymachus son of Polybus answered, ‘Take heart, Queen Penelope daughter of Icarius, and do not trouble yourself about these matters. The man is not yet born, nor never will be, who shall lay hands upon your son Telemachus, while I yet live to look upon the face of the earth. I say—and it shall surely be—that my spear shall be reddened with his blood; for many a time has Ulysses taken me on his knees, held wine up to my lips to drink, and put pieces of meat into my hands. Therefore Telemachus is much the dearest friend I have, and has nothing to fear from the hands of us suitors. Of course, if death comes to him from the gods, he cannot escape it.’ He said this to quiet her, but in reality he was plotting against Telemachus.
波吕波斯的儿子欧律马科斯回答说：“放心吧，伊卡里乌斯的女儿佩内洛普王后，不要为这些事情烦恼。”当我还活着看到地球表面时，对你的儿子忒勒马科斯下手的人还没有出生，也永远不会出生。我说——而且确实如此——我的长矛将被他的鲜血染红；尤利西斯曾多次跪着我，把酒举到我的唇边喝，把肉块放到我手里。因此，忒勒马科斯是我最亲密的朋友，完全不用担心我们这些追求者的攻击。当然，如果死亡从众神那里降临到他身上，他就无法逃脱。”他这样说是为了让她安静下来，但实际上他是在密谋反对特勒马科斯。

Then Penelope went upstairs again and mourned her husband till Minerva shed sleep over her eyes. In the evening Eumaeus got back to Ulysses and his son, who had just sacrificed a young pig of a year old and were helping one another to get supper ready; Minerva therefore came up to Ulysses, turned him into an old man with a stroke of her wand, and clad him in his old clothes again, for fear that the swineherd might recognise him and not keep the secret, but go and tell Penelope.
然后佩内洛普又上楼哀悼她的丈夫，直到米勒娃睡着了。晚上，尤迈厄斯回到了尤利西斯和他的儿子身边，他们刚刚宰杀了一头一岁的小猪，正在互相帮助准备晚饭。于是，密涅瓦来到尤利西斯面前，用魔杖一挥，把他变成了一个老人，又给他穿上了旧衣服，生怕猪倌认出了他，不肯保守秘密，而是去告诉佩内洛普。

Telemachus was the first to speak. ‘So you have got back, Eumaeus,’ said he. ‘What is the news of the town? Have the suitors returned, or are they still waiting over yonder, to take me on my way home?’
忒勒马科斯第一个发言。 “那么你回来了，尤迈厄斯，”他说。 ‘镇上有什么消息吗？求婚者回来了吗，还是还在那边等着带我回家？

‘I did not think of asking about that,’ replied Eumaeus, ‘when I was in the town. I thought I would give my message and come back as soon as I could. I met a man sent by those who had gone with you to Pylos, and he was the first to tell the news to your mother, but I can say what I saw with my own eyes; I had just got on to the crest of the hill of Mercury above the town when I saw a ship coming into harbour with a number of men in her. They had many shields and spears, and I thought it was the suitors, but I cannot be sure.’
“我在城里的时候并没有想到要问这个，”尤迈乌斯回答道。我想我应该传达我的信息并尽快回来。我遇到了一个和你一起去皮洛斯的人派来的人，他是第一个把这个消息告诉你母亲的，但我可以说我亲眼所见；我刚登上小镇上方的水星山顶，就看到一艘载着许多人的船驶入港口。他们有很多盾牌和长矛，我以为是追求者，但我不能确定。

On hearing this Telemachus smiled to his father, but so that Eumaeus could not see him.
听到这话，忒勒马科斯对他的父亲微笑，但这样欧迈乌斯就看不到他了。

Then, when they had finished their work and the meal was ready, they ate it, and every man had his full share so that all were satisfied. As soon as they had had enough to eat and drink, they laid down to rest and enjoyed the boon of sleep.
然后，当他们完成了工作，饭菜做好了，他们就吃了，每个人都得到了自己的份额，所以大家都满意了。吃饱喝足后，他们就躺下休息，享受睡眠的好处。

BOOK XVII
第十七册

TELEMACHUS AND HIS MOTHER MEET—ULYSSES AND EUMAEUS COME DOWN TO THE TOWN, AND ULYSSES IS INSULTED BY MELANTHIUS—HE IS RECOGNISED BY THE DOG ARGOS—HE IS INSULTED AND PRESENTLY STRUCK BY ANTINOUS WITH A STOOL—PENELOPE DESIRES THAT HE SHALL BE SENT TO HER.
忒勒马科斯和他的母亲相遇——尤利西斯和尤迈乌斯来到镇上，尤利西斯受到梅兰修斯的侮辱——他被狗阿尔戈斯认出了——他受到侮辱，不久就被安提诺斯用凳子击打——佩内洛普希望将他送到那里她。

When the child of morning, rosy-fingered Dawn, appeared, Telemachus bound on his sandals and took a strong spear that suited his hands, for he wanted to go into the city. ‘Old friend,’ said he to the swineherd, ‘I will now go to the town and show myself to my mother, for she will never leave off grieving till she has seen me. As for this unfortunate stranger, take him to the town and let him beg there of any one who will give him a drink and a piece of bread. I have trouble enough of my own, and cannot be burdened with other people. If this makes him angry so much the worse for him, but I like to say what I mean.’
当早晨的孩子，玫瑰色手指的黎明出现时，特勒马科斯穿上凉鞋，拿起适合他双手的坚固长矛，因为他要进城。 “老朋友，”他对猪倌说，“我现在要去城里见见我的母亲，因为她在见到我之前永远不会停止悲伤。”至于这个不幸的陌生人，把他带到城里，让他在那里乞求任何人给他一杯饮料和一块面包。我自己的烦恼已经够多了，不能再去负担别人的负担。如果这让他生气，那对他来说就更糟糕了，但我想说的是我的意思。

Then Ulysses said, ‘Sir, I do not want to stay here; a beggar can always do better in town than country, for any one who likes can give him something. I am too old to care about remaining here at the beck and call of a master. Therefore let this man do as you have just told him, and take me to the town as soon as I have had a warm by the fire, and the day has got a little heat in it. My clothes are wretchedly thin, and this frosty morning I shall be perished with cold, for you say the city is some way off.’
然后尤利西斯说：“先生，我不想留在这里；我不想留在这里。”乞丐在城里总是比在乡村做得更好，因为任何愿意的人都可以给他一些东西。我已经太老了，不在乎留在这儿听从主人的吩咐。因此，让这个人按照你刚才告诉他的去做，等我在火边取暖，天已经有点热了，就带我去城里。我的衣服薄得可怜，这个寒冷的早晨我会冻死的，因为你说那座城市离我还有一段距离。

On this Telemachus strode off through the yards, brooding his revenge upon the suitors. When he reached home he stood his spear against a bearing-post of the cloister, crossed the stone floor of the cloister itself, and went inside.
忒勒马科斯大步穿过院子，盘算着要向求婚者报仇。当他回到家时，他把长矛靠在回廊的一根柱子上，穿过回廊本身的石头地板，走进去。

Nurse Euryclea saw him long before any one else did. She was putting the fleeces on to the seats, and she burst out crying as she ran up to him; all the other maids came up too, and covered his head and shoulders with their kisses. Penelope came out of her room looking like Diana or Venus, and wept as she flung her arms about her son. She kissed his forehead and both his beautiful eyes, ‘Light of my eyes,’ she cried as she spoke fondly to him, ‘so you are come home again; I made sure I was never going to see you any more. To think of your having gone off to Pylos without saying anything about it or obtaining my consent. But come, tell me what you saw.’
尤丽克莉亚护士比其他人早看到了他。她正把羊毛衫放在座位上，跑到他身边时放声大哭。其他侍女也纷纷上来，亲吻他的头和肩膀。佩内洛普从她的房间里走出来，看起来就像戴安娜或维纳斯，她一边哭一边用双臂拥抱她的儿子。她吻了吻他的额头和他美丽的眼睛，“我的眼睛里有光，”她深情地对他说话，哭着说，“所以你又回家了；”我确定我再也不会见到你了。想想你没有说任何话，也没有征得我的同意就去了皮洛斯。但是来吧，告诉我你看到了什么。

‘Do not scold me, mother,’ answered Telemachus, ‘nor vex me, seeing what a narrow escape I have had, but wash your face, change your dress, go upstairs with your maids, and promise full and sufficient hecatombs to all the gods if Jove will only grant us our revenge upon the suitors. I must now go to the place of assembly to invite a stranger who has come back with me from Pylos. I sent him on with my crew, and told Piraeus to take him home and look after him till I could come for him myself.’
“不要责骂我，母亲，”忒勒马科斯回答道，“也不要惹恼我，因为我已经死里逃生了，但是洗脸，换衣服，和你的女仆一起上楼，并向所有的人保证充分和足够的死亡。”诸神啊，如果朱庇特能让我们向追求者报仇就好了。我现在必须去集合地点邀请一位和我一起从皮洛斯回来的陌生人。我派他和我的船员一起上路，并告诉比雷埃夫斯把他带回家照顾他，直到我亲自来接他。

She heeded her son’s words, washed her face, changed her dress, and vowed full and sufficient hecatombs to all the gods if they would only vouchsafe her revenge upon the suitors.
她听从了儿子的话，洗了脸，换了衣服，并向众神发誓，只要他们能向求婚者报仇，她就将遭受彻底的毁灭。

Telemachus went through, and out of, the cloisters spear in hand—not alone, for his two fleet dogs went with him. Minerva endowed him with a presence of such divine comeliness that all marvelled at him as he went by, and the suitors gathered round him with fair words in their mouths and malice in their hearts; but he avoided them, and went to sit with Mentor, Antiphus, and Halitherses, old friends of his father’s house, and they made him tell them all that had happened to him. Then Piraeus came up with Theoclymenus, whom he had escorted through the town to the place of assembly, whereon Telemachus at once joined them. Piraeus was first to speak: ‘Telemachus,’ said he, ‘I wish you would send some of your women to my house to take away the presents Menelaus gave you.’
特勒马科斯手持长矛穿过回廊，又走出回廊——他并不孤单，因为他的两只舰队狗和他一起同行。密涅瓦赋予他如此神圣的美貌，当他经过时，所有人都对他惊叹不已，求婚者们聚集在他周围，嘴里说着好话，心里充满恶意；但他避开了他们，去和他父亲家里的老朋友导师、安提弗斯和哈利瑟斯坐在一起，他们让他告诉他们发生在他身上的一切。然后，比雷埃夫斯遇到了泰奥克里米努斯，他护送他穿过城镇到达集会地点，特勒马科斯立即加入了他们。比雷埃夫斯首先开口说道：“忒勒马科斯，”他说，“我希望你能派一些女人到我家来拿走墨涅拉俄斯送给你的礼物。”

‘We do not know, Piraeus,’ answered Telemachus, ‘what may happen. If the suitors kill me in my own house and divide my property among them, I would rather you had the presents than that any of those people should get hold of them. If on the other hand I managed to kill them, I shall be much obliged if you will kindly bring me my presents.’
“我们不知道，比雷埃夫斯，”忒勒马科斯回答说，“会发生什么。如果求婚者在我自己的房子里杀了我，并将我的财产分给他们，我宁愿你得到这些礼物，也不愿那些人得到它们。另一方面，如果我成功地杀死了他们，如果你能好心给我带来我的礼物，我将不胜感激。

With these words he took Theoclymenus to his own house. When they got there they laid their cloaks on the benches and seats, went into the baths, and washed themselves. When the maids had washed and anointed them, and had given them cloaks and shirts, they took their seats at table. A maid servant then brought them water in a beautiful golden ewer, and poured it into a silver basin for them to wash their hands; and she drew a clean table beside them. An upper servant brought them bread and offered them many good things of what there was in the house. Opposite them sat Penelope, reclining on a couch by one of the bearing-posts of the cloister, and spinning. Then they laid their hands on the good things that were before them, and as soon as they had had enough to eat and drink Penelope said:
说完，他带着泰奥克里米努斯回到了自己的家中。到达那里后，他们把斗篷放在长凳和座位上，走进浴室洗澡。女仆们给他们清洗、抹油，并给了他们斗篷和衬衫后，他们就坐到了餐桌旁。然后，一个女仆用一个漂亮的金壶给他们端来水，倒进一个银盆里，让他们洗手。她在他们旁边画了一张干净的桌子。一个上层仆人给他们带来了面包，并给了他们许多家里有的好东西。佩内洛普坐在他们对面，斜倚在回廊一根支柱旁的沙发上，旋转着。然后他们把手放在面前的好东西上，当他们吃饱喝足后，佩内洛普说道：

‘Telemachus, I shall go upstairs and lie down on that sad couch, which I have not ceased to water with my tears, from the day Ulysses set out for Troy with the sons of Atreus. You failed, however, to make it clear to me before the suitors came back to the house, whether or no you had been able to hear anything about the return of your father.’
“特勒马科斯，我要上楼躺在那张悲伤的沙发上，自从尤利西斯和阿特柔斯的儿子们出发前往特洛伊的那一天起，我就一直在用泪水浇灌这张沙发。然而，在求婚者回到家之前，你并没有向我说清楚，你是否能够听到有关你父亲回来的消息。

‘I will tell you then truth,’ replied her son. ‘We went to Pylos and saw Nestor, who took me to his house and treated me as hospitably as though I were a son of his own who had just returned after a long absence; so also did his sons; but he said he had not heard a word from any human being about Ulysses, whether he was alive or dead. He sent me, therefore, with a chariot and horses to Menelaus. There I saw Helen, for whose sake so many, both Argives and Trojans, were in heaven’s wisdom doomed to suffer. Menelaus asked me what it was that had brought me to Lacedaemon, and I told him the whole truth, whereon he said, ‘So, then, these cowards would usurp a brave man’s bed? A hind might as well lay her new-born young in the lair of a lion, and then go off to feed in the forest or in some grassy dell. The lion, when he comes back to his lair, will make short work with the pair of them, and so will Ulysses with these suitors. By father Jove, Minerva, and Apollo, if Ulysses is still the man that he was when he wrestled with Philomeleides in Lesbos, and threw him so heavily that all the Greeks cheered him—if he is still such, and were to come near these suitors, they would have a short shrift and a sorry wedding. As regards your question, however, I will not prevaricate nor deceive you, but what the old man of the sea told me, so much will I tell you in full. He said he could see Ulysses on an island sorrowing bitterly in the house of the nymph Calypso, who was keeping him prisoner, and he could not reach his home, for he had no ships nor sailors to take him over the sea.’ This was what Menelaus told me, and when I had heard his story I came away; the gods then gave me a fair wind and soon brought me safe home again.’
“那么我就告诉你真相，”她的儿子回答道。 “我们去了皮洛斯，见到了内斯特，他带我去他家，热情地对待我，就像我是他久别重来的儿子一样；他的儿子们也是如此。但他说他没有从任何人那里听到任何关于尤利西斯的消息，无论他是活着还是死了。因此，他派我带着战车和马匹去见墨涅劳斯。在那里我看到了海伦，为了她的缘故，许多人，无论是阿尔戈斯人还是特洛伊人，在天堂的智慧中都注定要受苦。墨涅拉俄斯问我是什么把我带到了拉栖代梦，我告诉了他全部真相，他说：“这么说来，这些胆小鬼会篡夺勇敢者的床吗？”母鹿还不如把刚出生的幼崽放在狮子的巢穴里，然后去森林或长满青草的山谷里觅食。当狮子回到自己的巢穴时，他会与他们进行短暂的合作，尤利西斯也会与这些追求者进行短暂的合作。以朱庇特、密涅瓦和阿波罗之父的名义，如果尤利西斯仍然是他在莱斯博斯岛与菲洛梅莱德斯摔跤时的那个人，并把他摔得很重，以至于所有希腊人都为他欢呼——如果他仍然如此，并且要接近这些人对于追求者来说，他们会受到冷遇，并举行一场遗憾的婚礼。不过，对于你的问题，我不会搪塞，也不会欺骗你，但海老人告诉我的，我就完整告诉你。他说他看到尤利西斯在一座岛上，在仙女卡吕普索的家里痛苦地悲伤，卡吕普索把他囚禁起来，他无法回到家，因为他没有船只或水手带他穿越大海。墨涅拉俄斯告诉我的事，当我听完他的故事后，我就离开了；然后众神给了我一阵顺风，很快又把我安全地带回了家。”

With these words he moved the heart of Penelope. Then Theoclymenus said to her:
这句话打动了佩内洛普的心。然后泰奥克里米努斯对她说：

‘Madam, wife of Ulysses, Telemachus does not understand these things; listen therefore to me, for I can divine them surely, and will hide nothing from you. May Jove the king of heaven be my witness, and the rites of hospitality, with that hearth of Ulysses to which I now come, that Ulysses himself is even now in Ithaca, and, either going about the country or staying in one place, is enquiring into all these evil deeds and preparing a day of reckoning for the suitors. I saw an omen when I was on the ship which meant this, and I told Telemachus about it.’
“女士，尤利西斯的妻子，忒勒马科斯不明白这些事情；因此，请听我说，因为我确实可以预测它们，并且不会向您隐瞒任何事情。愿天王朱庇特为我作证，并以我现在所到的尤利西斯的壁炉为我作证，尤利西斯本人现在就在伊萨卡，无论是在全国各地旅行还是停留在一个地方，调查所有这些恶行，并为求婚者准备清算的一天。我在船上时看到了一个预兆，这就是这个意思，我把这件事告诉了忒勒马科斯。

‘May it be even so,’ answered Penelope; ‘if your words come true, you shall have such gifts and such good will from me that all who see you shall congratulate you.’
“但愿如此，”佩内洛普回答道。 “如果你的话成真，你将从我这里得到如此的礼物和如此好的意愿，所有看到你的人都会祝贺你。”

Thus did they converse. Meanwhile the suitors were throwing discs, or aiming with spears at a mark on the levelled ground in front of the house, and behaving with all their old insolence. But when it was now time for dinner, and the flock of sheep and goats had come into the town from all the country round, {140} with their shepherds as usual, then Medon, who was their favourite servant, and who waited upon them at table, said, ‘Now then, my young masters, you have had enough sport, so come inside that we may get dinner ready. Dinner is not a bad thing, at dinner time.’
他们就这样交谈。与此同时，求婚者们正在投掷圆盘，或者用长矛瞄准屋前平坦地面上的一个标记，表现出他们一贯的傲慢态度。但是，现在到了晚餐时间，绵羊和山羊群从全国各地来到城里，{140}像往常一样带着他们的牧羊人，然后是梅东，他是他们最喜欢的仆人，侍候着他们” 席上说道：“现在，我的少爷们，你们已经玩够了，进来吧，我们可以准备晚餐了。在晚餐时间吃晚饭并不是一件坏事。

They left their sports as he told them, and when they were within the house, they laid their cloaks on the benches and seats inside, and then sacrificed some sheep, goats, pigs, and a heifer, all of them fat and well grown. {141} Thus they made ready for their meal. In the meantime Ulysses and the swineherd were about starting for the town, and the swineherd said, ‘Stranger, I suppose you still want to go to town to-day, as my master said you were to do; for my own part I should have liked you to stay here as a station hand, but I must do as my master tells me, or he will scold me later on, and a scolding from one’s master is a very serious thing. Let us then be off, for it is now broad day; it will be night again directly and then you will find it colder.’ {142}
他们按照他的吩咐离开了他们的运动，当他们进屋后，他们把斗篷放在屋内的长凳和座位上，然后宰杀了一些绵羊、山羊、猪和一头小母牛，所有的动物都肥壮的。 {141} 这样他们就准备好了饭菜。与此同时，尤利西斯和猪倌正要出发进城，猪倌说：“陌生人，我想你今天仍然想去城里，正如我的主人所说的那样；但是，你应该去城里。”就我个人而言，我本来希望你留在这里当站员，但我必须按照主人告诉我的去做，否则他以后会骂我的，而被主人骂是一件很严重的事情。那么我们就出发吧，因为现在已经是大白天了。马上又是晚上了，然后你会发现天气更冷了。”{142}

‘I know, and understand you,’ replied Ulysses; ‘you need say no more. Let us be going, but if you have a stick ready cut, let me have it to walk with, for you say the road is a very rough one.’
“我知道，也理解你，”尤利西斯回答道。 ‘你不用再说了。我们走吧，但是如果你有一根准备好的棍子，让我带着它走路，因为你说这条路非常崎岖。

As he spoke he threw his shabby old tattered wallet over his shoulders, by the cord from which it hung, and Eumaeus gave him a stick to his liking. The two then started, leaving the station in charge of the dogs and herdsmen who remained behind; the swineherd led the way and his master followed after, looking like some broken down old tramp as he leaned upon his staff, and his clothes were all in rags. When they had got over the rough steep ground and were nearing the city, they reached the fountain from which the citizens drew their water. This had been made by Ithacus, Neritus, and Polyctor. There was a grove of water-loving poplars planted in a circle all round it, and the clear cold water came down to it from a rock high up, {143} while above the fountain there was an altar to the nymphs, at which all wayfarers used to sacrifice. Here Melanthius son of Dolius overtook them as he was driving down some goats, the best in his flock, for the suitors’ dinner, and there were two shepherds with him. When he saw Eumaeus and Ulysses he reviled them with outrageous and unseemly language, which made Ulysses very angry.
当他说话时，他把破旧的破烂钱包扔在肩上，用绳子挂着它，尤迈厄斯给了他一根他喜欢的棍子。两人随后出发，留下负责看管留下的狗和牧民的车站。猪倌在前面引路，他的主人跟在后面，拄着拐杖，像个疲惫不堪的老流浪汉，衣服破烂不堪。当他们翻过崎岖陡峭的地面，接近城市时，他们到达了市民们取水的喷泉处。这是由 Ithacus、Neritus 和 Polyctor 制作的。周围有一片喜水的白杨树林，周围种植着一圈，清澈的冷水从高处的岩石上流下来，{143}而喷泉上方有一座仙女祭坛，所有的人都在祭坛上。旅人曾经牺牲过。在这里，多利乌斯的儿子梅兰修斯赶上了他们，当时他正在赶走羊群中最好的山羊，为求婚者准备晚餐，和他在一起的还有两个牧羊人。当他看到尤迈厄斯和尤利西斯时，他用粗暴无礼的语言谩骂他们，这使尤利西斯非常生气。

‘There you go,’ cried he, ‘and a precious pair you are. See how heaven brings birds of the same feather to one another. Where, pray, master swineherd, are you taking this poor miserable object? It would make any one sick to see such a creature at table. A fellow like this never won a prize for anything in his life, but will go about rubbing his shoulders against every man’s door post, and begging, not for swords and cauldrons {144} like a man, but only for a few scraps not worth begging for. If you would give him to me for a hand on my station, he might do to clean out the folds, or bring a bit of sweet feed to the kids, and he could fatten his thighs as much as he pleased on whey; but he has taken to bad ways and will not go about any kind of work; he will do nothing but beg victuals all the town over, to feed his insatiable belly. I say, therefore—and it shall surely be—if he goes near Ulysses’ house he will get his head broken by the stools they will fling at him, till they turn him out.’
“好了，”他喊道，“你们是一对珍贵的情侣。看看天堂如何让同种羽毛的鸟儿彼此相聚。猪倌大人，请问您要把这个可怜的东西带到哪里去呢？任何人在餐桌上看到这样的生物都会感到恶心。像这样的人，一生中从未赢得过任何奖品，却会到处用肩膀蹭着每个人的门柱，乞讨，不是像男人一样要剑和锅{144}，而只是为了一些不值得的碎片乞求。如果你愿意把他交给我，让我帮忙管理我的站，他可能会清理褶皱，或者给孩子们带一点甜食，他还可以用乳清来增肥他的大腿；但他走上了邪路，不肯从事任何工作。他什么也不做，只会向全镇乞讨食物，来填饱他贪得无厌的肚子。因此，我说——而且肯定会如此——如果他靠近尤利西斯的房子，他们会向他扔凳子，他的头就会被砸碎，直到他们把他赶出去。

On this, as he passed, he gave Ulysses a kick on the hip out of pure wantonness, but Ulysses stood firm, and did not budge from the path. For a moment he doubted whether or no to fly at Melanthius and kill him with his staff, or fling him to the ground and beat his brains out; he resolved, however, to endure it and keep himself in check, but the swineherd looked straight at Melanthius and rebuked him, lifting up his hands and praying to heaven as he did so.
当他经过时，他出于纯粹的肆意踢了尤利西斯的臀部，但尤利西斯坚定地站着，没有离开道路。有一瞬间，他犹豫着是否要飞向梅兰修斯，用他的手杖杀死他，或者把他扔到地上，把他的脑浆敲出来；然而，他决定忍受并控制自己，但猪倌直视梅兰修斯并斥责他，同时举起双手向天堂祈祷。

‘Fountain nymphs,’ he cried, ‘children of Jove, if ever Ulysses burned you thigh bones covered with fat whether of lambs or kids, grant my prayer that heaven may send him home. He would soon put an end to the swaggering threats with which such men as you go about insulting people—gadding all over the town while your flocks are going to ruin through bad shepherding.’
“喷泉仙女们，”他喊道，“朱庇特的孩子们，如果尤利西斯烧毁了你们的大腿骨，无论是羔羊的还是小山羊的，都沾满了脂肪，请答应我的祈祷，上天会送他回家。”他很快就会结束像你们这样的人用来侮辱别人的大摇大摆的威胁——在镇上到处闲逛，而你们的羊群将因糟糕的牧养而遭到毁灭。

Then Melanthius the goatherd answered, ‘You ill conditioned cur, what are you talking about? Some day or other I will put you on board ship and take you to a foreign country, where I can sell you and pocket the money you will fetch. I wish I were as sure that Apollo would strike Telemachus dead this very day, or that the suitors would kill him, as I am that Ulysses will never come home again.’
牧羊人梅兰修斯回答道：“你这个坏家伙，你在说什么？总有一天我会把你送上船，带你去异国他乡，在那里我可以把你卖掉，然后把你赚到的钱装进口袋。我希望我能确信阿波罗会在这一天杀死特勒马科斯，或者求婚者会杀死他，就像我确信尤利西斯永远不会再回家一样。

With this he left them to come on at their leisure, while he went quickly forward and soon reached the house of his master. When he got there he went in and took his seat among the suitors opposite Eurymachus, who liked him better than any of the others. The servants brought him a portion of meat, and an upper woman servant set bread before him that he might eat. Presently Ulysses and the swineherd came up to the house and stood by it, amid a sound of music, for Phemius was just beginning to sing to the suitors. Then Ulysses took hold of the swineherd’s hand, and said:
说罢，他便让他们自由自在，自己则快步向前，很快就到了主人的家。当他到达那里时，他走进去，在欧律马科斯对面的求婚者中间坐下，欧律马科斯比其他任何人都更喜欢他。仆人们给他端来了一份肉，一位上层女仆把面包摆在他面前，让他吃。不久，尤利西斯和猪倌来到房子旁边，在音乐声中站在房子旁边，因为菲米乌斯刚刚开始向求婚者唱歌。然后尤利西斯握住猪倌的手说：

‘Eumaeus, this house of Ulysses is a very fine place. No matter how far you go, you will find few like it. One building keeps following on after another. The outer court has a wall with battlements all round it; the doors are double folding, and of good workmanship; it would be a hard matter to take it by force of arms. I perceive, too, that there are many people banqueting within it, for there is a smell of roast meat, and I hear a sound of music, which the gods have made to go along with feasting.’
“Eumaeus，尤利西斯的这座房子是一个非常好的地方。无论你走多远，你都会发现很少有这样的地方。一栋又一栋建筑不断涌现。外院有墙，四周有城垛；门是双折的，做工很好；用武力夺取它是一件困难的事。我还察觉到有很多人在里面举行宴会，因为有一股烤肉的味道，而且我听到了音乐声，这是众神为配合宴会而创造的。

Then Eumaeus said, ‘You have perceived aright, as indeed you generally do; but let us think what will be our best course. Will you go inside first and join the suitors, leaving me here behind you, or will you wait here and let me go in first? But do not wait long, or some one may see you loitering about outside, and throw something at you. Consider this matter I pray you.’
然后欧迈乌斯说：“你的看法是对的，正如你通常所做的那样；”但让我们想想什么是我们最好的做法。你会先进去加入追求者的行列，把我留在你身后，还是在这里等一下，让我先进去？但不要等太久，否则有人可能会看到你在外面闲逛，并向你扔东西。我恳求你考虑一下这件事。

And Ulysses answered, ‘I understand and heed. Go in first and leave me here where I am. I am quite used to being beaten and having things thrown at me. I have been so much buffeted about in war and by sea that I am case-hardened, and this too may go with the rest. But a man cannot hide away the cravings of a hungry belly; this is an enemy which gives much trouble to all men; it is because of this that ships are fitted out to sail the seas, and to make war upon other people.’
尤利西斯回答说：“我理解并注意。”你先进去吧，把我留在原地。我已经习惯了被打、被扔东西。我在战争和海上遭受了如此多的打击，以至于我已经变得硬化了，这也可能与其他人一样。但一个人无法隐藏饥饿的肚子的渴望；这是一个给所有人带来很多麻烦的敌人；正因为如此，船只才被装备来航行于海上，并向他人发动战争。

As they were thus talking, a dog that had been lying asleep raised his head and pricked up his ears. This was Argos, whom Ulysses had bred before setting out for Troy, but he had never had any work out of him. In the old days he used to be taken out by the young men when they went hunting wild goats, or deer, or hares, but now that his master was gone he was lying neglected on the heaps of mule and cow dung that lay in front of the stable doors till the men should come and draw it away to manure the great close; and he was full of fleas. As soon as he saw Ulysses standing there, he dropped his ears and wagged his tail, but he could not get close up to his master. When Ulysses saw the dog on the other side of the yard, he dashed a tear from his eyes without Eumaeus seeing it, and said:
正当他们说话的时候，一只正在睡觉的狗抬起了头，竖起了耳朵。这就是阿尔戈斯，是尤利西斯在前往特洛伊之前养育的，但他从来没有为他做过任何工作。以前，年轻人去打野山羊、鹿或野兔时，他都会被带出去，但现在他的主人走了，他就躺在前面的骡子和牛粪堆上，无人理睬。直到人们来把马厩的门拉开，给马厩的大门施肥。他身上满是跳蚤。它一看到尤利西斯站在那里，就垂下耳朵，摇着尾巴，却无法靠近主人。当尤利西斯看到院子另一边的狗时，他在欧迈厄斯没有看到的情况下从眼中流下了泪水，说道：

‘Eumaeus, what a noble hound that is over yonder on the manure heap: his build is splendid; is he as fine a fellow as he looks, or is he only one of those dogs that come begging about a table, and are kept merely for show?’
“尤迈厄斯，那边粪堆上有一只多么高贵的猎犬啊：它的体格非常出色；他真的像他看上去那样是个好人吗？或者他只是那些来乞讨一张桌子、只是为了表演而饲养的狗之一？

‘This hound,’ answered Eumaeus, ‘belonged to him who has died in a far country. If he were what he was when Ulysses left for Troy, he would soon show you what he could do. There was not a wild beast in the forest that could get away from him when he was once on its tracks. But now he has fallen on evil times, for his master is dead and gone, and the women take no care of him. Servants never do their work when their master’s hand is no longer over them, for Jove takes half the goodness out of a man when he makes a slave of him.’
“这只猎犬，”尤迈乌斯回答说，“属于死在遥远国度的那个人。”如果他是尤利西斯前往特洛伊时的样子，他很快就会向你展示他能做什么。当他追踪到的时候，森林里没有一只野兽能够逃脱他的手。但现在他却陷入了不幸的境地，因为他的主人已经死了，女人也不再照顾他了。当主人的手不再在仆人身上时，仆人永远不会做他们的工作，因为当朱庇特把一个人变成奴隶时，他就失去了他一半的善良。

As he spoke he went inside the buildings to the cloister where the suitors were, but Argos died as soon as he had recognised his master.
他一边说着，一边走进建筑物，来到求婚者所在的回廊，但阿尔戈斯一认出自己的主人就死了。

Telemachus saw Eumaeus long before any one else did, and beckoned him to come and sit beside him; so he looked about and saw a seat lying near where the carver sat serving out their portions to the suitors; he picked it up, brought it to Telemachus’s table, and sat down opposite him. Then the servant brought him his portion, and gave him bread from the bread-basket.
忒勒马科斯比其他人早看到了尤迈乌斯，并示意他过来坐在自己旁边。于是他环顾四周，发现雕刻师坐的地方附近有一个座位，把他们的食物分给求婚者。他把它捡起来，带到忒勒马科斯的桌子上，然后在他对面坐下。然后仆人给他拿来了自己的一份，并从面包篮里拿出面包给了他。

Immediately afterwards Ulysses came inside, looking like a poor miserable old beggar, leaning on his staff and with his clothes all in rags. He sat down upon the threshold of ash-wood just inside the doors leading from the outer to the inner court, and against a bearing-post of cypress-wood which the carpenter had skilfully planed, and had made to join truly with rule and line. Telemachus took a whole loaf from the bread-basket, with as much meat as he could hold in his two hands, and said to Eumaeus, ‘Take this to the stranger, and tell him to go the round of the suitors, and beg from them; a beggar must not be shamefaced.’
紧接着尤利西斯就进来了，他拄着拐杖，衣衫褴褛，像个可怜的老乞丐。他坐在从外院通往内院的门内的白蜡木门槛上，靠着木匠熟练地刨平的柏木柱，并用规则和线条将其真正连接起来。 。特勒马科斯从面包篮里拿出一整条面包，两只手抓着尽可能多的肉，对尤迈乌斯说：“把这个交给陌生人，让他去周围的求婚者那里乞讨。”他们;乞丐不应该感到羞耻。

So Eumaeus went up to him and said, ‘Stranger, Telemachus sends you this, and says you are to go the round of the suitors begging, for beggars must not be shamefaced.’
于是欧迈俄斯走到他面前说道：“陌生人，忒勒马科斯给你发了这个信，并告诉你要到求婚者那里去乞讨，因为乞丐不应该感到羞耻。”

Ulysses answered, ‘May King Jove grant all happiness to Telemachus, and fulfil the desire of his heart.’
尤利西斯回答说：“愿朱庇特国王赐予特勒马科斯一切幸福，满足他的心愿。”

Then with both hands he took what Telemachus had sent him, and laid it on the dirty old wallet at his feet. He went on eating it while the bard was singing, and had just finished his dinner as he left off. The suitors applauded the bard, whereon Minerva went up to Ulysses and prompted him to beg pieces of bread from each one of the suitors, that he might see what kind of people they were, and tell the good from the bad; but come what might she was not going to save a single one of them. Ulysses, therefore, went on his round, going from left to right, and stretched out his hands to beg as though he were a real beggar. Some of them pitied him, and were curious about him, asking one another who he was and where he came from; whereon the goatherd Melanthius said, ‘Suitors of my noble mistress, I can tell you something about him, for I have seen him before. The swineherd brought him here, but I know nothing about the man himself, nor where he comes from.’
然后他用双手接过特勒马科斯送给他的东西，把它放在脚边肮脏的旧钱包上。当吟游诗人唱歌时，他继续吃着它，在他离开时刚刚吃完晚饭。求婚者们为吟游诗人鼓掌，密涅瓦走到尤利西斯面前，让他向每一位求婚者讨要面包片，这样他就可以看看他们是什么样的人，并辨别好人坏人。但无论如何，她都不会拯救他们中的任何一个。尤利西斯于是从左到右地转了一圈，伸出双手乞讨，就像一个真正的乞丐一样。他们中的一些人同情他，并对他感到好奇，互相询问他是谁，从哪里来；还有一些人对他感到好奇。牧羊人梅兰修斯说道：“我高贵情妇的追求者们，我可以告诉你们一些关于他的事情，因为我以前见过他。”猪倌把他带到了这里，但我对这个人本人一无所知，也不知道他来自哪里。

On this Antinous began to abuse the swineherd. ‘You precious idiot,’ he cried, ‘what have you brought this man to town for? Have we not tramps and beggars enough already to pester us as we sit at meat? Do you think it a small thing that such people gather here to waste your master’s property—and must you needs bring this man as well?’
安提诺斯开始辱骂猪倌。 “你这个可爱的白痴，”他喊道，“你把这个人带到城里来干什么？当我们坐在肉旁时，我们的流浪汉和乞丐还不是已经够多了吗？这些人聚集在这里，浪费你主人的财产，你觉得这是小事吗？你还需要带上这个人吗？

And Eumaeus answered, ‘Antinous, your birth is good but your words evil. It was no doing of mine that he came here. Who is likely to invite a stranger from a foreign country, unless it be one of those who can do public service as a seer, a healer of hurts, a carpenter, or a bard who can charm us with his singing? Such men are welcome all the world over, but no one is likely to ask a beggar who will only worry him. You are always harder on Ulysses’ servants than any of the other suitors are, and above all on me, but I do not care so long as Telemachus and Penelope are alive and here.’
尤迈乌斯回答说：“安提诺斯，你的出身是好的，但你的言语却是邪恶的。”他来到这里并不是我的功劳。谁会邀请一个来自外国的陌生人，除非他是一位能提供公共服务的先知、伤痛治疗师、木匠或能用歌声迷惑我们的吟游诗人呢？这样的人在全世界都受到欢迎，但没有人会向一个只会让他担心的乞丐提出要求。你对尤利西斯的仆人总是比任何其他追求者都严厉，尤其是对我，但只要特勒马科斯和佩内洛普还活着并且在这里，我就不在乎。

But Telemachus said, ‘Hush, do not answer him; Antinous has the bitterest tongue of all the suitors, and he makes the others worse.’
但特勒马科斯说：“嘘，别回答他；别回答他。”安提诺乌斯是所有追求者中最尖酸刻薄的，他让其他人变得更糟。

Then turning to Antinous he said, ‘Antinous, you take as much care of my interests as though I were your son. Why should you want to see this stranger turned out of the house? Heaven forbid; take something and give it him yourself; I do not grudge it; I bid you take it. Never mind my mother, nor any of the other servants in the house; but I know you will not do what I say, for you are more fond of eating things yourself than of giving them to other people.’
然后他转向安提诺乌斯说：“安提诺乌斯，你像照顾你的儿子一样照顾我的利益。”你为什么要看到这个陌生人被赶出家门？老天爷不允许；自己拿东西给他；我并不怨恨它；我吩咐你拿走它。别管我母亲，也别管家里的其他仆人；但我知道你不会照我说的做，因为你更喜欢自己吃东西而不是把它们送给别人。

‘What do you mean, Telemachus,’ replied Antinous, ‘by this swaggering talk? If all the suitors were to give him as much as I will, he would not come here again for another three months.’
“忒勒马科斯，”安提诺斯回答道，“你这种大言不惭的言论是什么意思？如果所有的追求者都像我一样给他那么多，他就不会再来这里三个月了。

As he spoke he drew the stool on which he rested his dainty feet from under the table, and made as though he would throw it at Ulysses, but the other suitors all gave him something, and filled his wallet with bread and meat; he was about, therefore, to go back to the threshold and eat what the suitors had given him, but he first went up to Antinous and said:
说话的时候，他从桌子底下抽出了用来搁脚的凳子，做出要把它扔向尤利西斯的样子，但其他求婚者都给了他一些东西，并在他的钱包里装满了面包和肉；他的钱包里装满了面包和肉。因此，他正要回到门口吃求婚者给他的东西，但他首先走到安提诺乌斯面前说道：

‘Sir, give me something; you are not, surely, the poorest man here; you seem to be a chief, foremost among them all; therefore you should be the better giver, and I will tell far and wide of your bounty. I too was a rich man once, and had a fine house of my own; in those days I gave to many a tramp such as I now am, no matter who he might be nor what he wanted. I had any number of servants, and all the other things which people have who live well and are accounted wealthy, but it pleased Jove to take all away from me. He sent me with a band of roving robbers to Egypt; it was a long voyage and I was undone by it. I stationed my ships in the river Aegyptus, and bade my men stay by them and keep guard over them, while I sent out scouts to reconnoitre from every point of vantage.
‘先生，请给我一些东西；当然，你不是这里最穷的人；你似乎是一个酋长，在他们之中是最重要的；因此，你应该成为更好的给予者，我会广泛地讲述你的慷慨。我也曾经是个富人，拥有自己的一栋漂亮的房子。那些日子里，我给了许多像现在这样的流浪汉，不管他是谁，也不管他想要什么。我有许多仆人，还有生活富裕、被认为富有的人所拥有的所有其他东西，但天神很乐意把这一切从我身上夺走。他派我和一群强盗到埃及去。这是一次漫长的航行，我被它毁掉了。我把我的船只驻扎在埃及河，并命令我的人留在他们身边并看守他们，同时我派出侦察兵从各个有利位置进行侦察。

‘But the men disobeyed my orders, took to their own devices, and ravaged the land of the Egyptians, killing the men, and taking their wives and children captives. The alarm was soon carried to the city, and when they heard the war-cry, the people came out at daybreak till the plain was filled with soldiers horse and foot, and with the gleam of armour. Then Jove spread panic among my men, and they would no longer face the enemy, for they found themselves surrounded. The Egyptians killed many of us, and took the rest alive to do forced labour for them; as for myself, they gave me to a friend who met them, to take to Cyprus, Dmetor by name, son of Iasus, who was a great man in Cyprus. Thence I am come hither in a state of great misery.’
‘但是这些人不听从我的命令，自行其是，蹂躏埃及人的土地，杀害了埃及人，并掳走了他们的妻子和孩子。警报很快就传到城里，听到战吼，人们天一亮就出来了，直到平原上布满了骑兵和步兵，盔甲闪闪发光。然后朱庇特在我的部下中散布了恐慌，他们不再面对敌人，因为他们发现自己被包围了。埃及人杀了我们许多人，并活捉其余的人为他们做苦役。至于我自己，他们把我交给一位遇见他们的朋友，带我去塞浦路斯，名叫德梅托，是伊阿苏斯的儿子，是塞浦路斯的一位伟人。我是带着极大的痛苦来到这里的。

Then Antinous said, ‘What god can have sent such a pestilence to plague us during our dinner? Get out, into the open part of the court, {145} or I will give you Egypt and Cyprus over again for your insolence and importunity; you have begged of all the others, and they have given you lavishly, for they have abundance round them, and it is easy to be free with other people’s property when there is plenty of it.’
安提诺乌斯说道：“哪个神明能在我们晚餐时降下如此瘟疫来困扰我们呢？”出去，进入法庭的露天部分，{145}否则我将因你们的傲慢和强求而再次把埃及和塞浦路斯交给你们；你向所有其他人乞讨，而他们却慷慨地给了你，因为他们周围有很多东西，当别人的财产足够多时，你很容易就可以随意占有别人的财产。

On this Ulysses began to move off, and said, ‘Your looks, my fine sir, are better than your breeding; if you were in your own house you would not spare a poor man so much as a pinch of salt, for though you are in another man’s, and surrounded with abundance, you cannot find it in you to give him even a piece of bread.’
说到这里，尤利西斯开始走开，说道：“我的好先生，你的相貌胜过你的教养；如果你在自己的家里，你不会给一个穷人哪怕一撮盐，因为尽管你在别人的家里，周围物质丰富，你却找不到给他哪怕是一片面包的勇气。 '

This made Antinous very angry, and he scowled at him saying, ‘You shall pay for this before you get clear of the court.’ With these words he threw a footstool at him, and hit him on the right shoulder blade near the top of his back. Ulysses stood firm as a rock and the blow did not even stagger him, but he shook his head in silence as he brooded on his revenge. Then he went back to the threshold and sat down there, laying his well filled wallet at his feet.
这让安提诺乌斯非常生气，他皱起眉头对他说：“在你离开法庭之前，你必须为此付出代价。”说着，他向他扔了一个脚凳，并击中了他靠近顶部的右肩胛骨。他的背。尤利西斯坚如磐石，这一击甚至没有让他摇晃，但他默默地摇了摇头，沉思着自己的复仇。然后他回到门口坐下，把塞得满满的钱包放在脚边。

‘Listen to me,’ he cried, ‘you suitors of Queen Penelope, that I may speak even as I am minded. A man knows neither ache nor pain if he gets hit while fighting for his money, or for his sheep or his cattle; and even so Antinous has hit me while in the service of my miserable belly, which is always getting people into trouble. Still, if the poor have gods and avenging deities at all, I pray them that Antinous may come to a bad end before his marriage.’
“听我说，”他喊道，“佩内洛普王后的追求者们，我可以随心所欲地说话。一个人如果在为自己的金钱、羊群或牛群而战时被击中，他既不会感到痛苦，也不会感到痛苦；即便如此，安提诺斯还是在为我那可怜的肚子服务时打了我，这总是给人们带来麻烦。尽管如此，如果穷人有神和复仇之神，我祈祷他们安提诺乌斯在结婚前可能有一个糟糕的结局。

‘Sit where you are, and eat your victuals in silence, or be off elsewhere,’ shouted Antinous. ‘If you say more I will have you dragged hand and foot through the courts, and the servants shall flay you alive.’
“坐在你现在所在的地方，安静地吃你的食物，或者去别的地方，”安提诺斯喊道。 “如果你再说更多的话，我会让你手脚拖过法庭，仆人们会活活剥你的皮。”

The other suitors were much displeased at this, and one of the young men said, ‘Antinous, you did ill in striking that poor wretch of a tramp: it will be worse for you if he should turn out to be some god—and we know the gods go about disguised in all sorts of ways as people from foreign countries, and travel about the world to see who do amiss and who righteously.’ {146}
其他求婚者对此非常不高兴，其中一个年轻人说：“安提诺斯，你打了那个可怜的流浪汉，你做错了：如果他变成了某个神，那对你来说就更糟糕了——而我们知道诸神以各种方式伪装成来自外国的人，并周游世界，看看谁做错了，谁是正义的。”{146}

Thus said the suitors, but Antinous paid them no heed. Meanwhile Telemachus was furious about the blow that had been given to his father, and though no tear fell from him, he shook his head in silence and brooded on his revenge.
追求者们如此说道，但安提诺斯没有理睬他们。与此同时，忒勒马科斯对父亲所受的打击感到愤怒，虽然没有流下眼泪，但他默默地摇着头，沉思着自己的复仇。

Now when Penelope heard that the beggar had been struck in the banqueting-cloister, she said before her maids, ‘Would that Apollo would so strike you, Antinous,’ and her waiting woman Eurynome answered, ‘If our prayers were answered not one of the suitors would ever again see the sun rise.’ Then Penelope said, ‘Nurse, {147} I hate every single one of them, for they mean nothing but mischief, but I hate Antinous like the darkness of death itself. A poor unfortunate tramp has come begging about the house for sheer want. Every one else has given him something to put in his wallet, but Antinous has hit him on the right shoulder-blade with a footstool.’
现在，当佩内洛普听说乞丐在宴会回廊中被殴打时，她对女仆们说：“安提诺斯，阿波罗会这样打你吗？”她的侍女欧律诺墨回答道：“如果我们的祈祷没有得到回应，求婚者将再次看到太阳升起。”然后佩内洛普说，“护士，{147}我恨他们每一个人，因为他们除了恶作剧之外什么也没有，但我恨安提诺乌斯就像死亡本身的黑暗一样。一个可怜的不幸的流浪汉来到这里乞讨房子，只是为了满足需要。其他人都给了他一些东西放在钱包里，但安提诺斯用脚凳击中了他的右肩胛骨。

Thus did she talk with her maids as she sat in her own room, and in the meantime Ulysses was getting his dinner. Then she called for the swineherd and said, ‘Eumaeus, go and tell the stranger to come here, I want to see him and ask him some questions. He seems to have travelled much, and he may have seen or heard something of my unhappy husband.’
她就这样坐在自己的房间里和女仆们聊天，同时尤利西斯正在准备晚饭。然后她把猪倌叫来，说道：“Eumaeus，去告诉那个陌生人到这里来，我想见见他，问他一些问题。”他似乎去过很多地方，他可能看到或听说过我不幸的丈夫的一些事情。

To this you answered, O swineherd Eumaeus, ‘If these Achaeans, Madam, would only keep quiet, you would be charmed with the history of his adventures. I had him three days and three nights with me in my hut, which was the first place he reached after running away from his ship, and he has not yet completed the story of his misfortunes. If he had been the most heaven-taught minstrel in the whole world, on whose lips all hearers hang entranced, I could not have been more charmed as I sat in my hut and listened to him. He says there is an old friendship between his house and that of Ulysses, and that he comes from Crete where the descendants of Minos live, after having been driven hither and thither by every kind of misfortune; he also declares that he has heard of Ulysses as being alive and near at hand among the Thesprotians, and that he is bringing great wealth home with him.’
对此，你的回答是，猪倌尤迈乌斯啊，“女士，如果这些亚该亚人保持安静，你就会被他的冒险历史所吸引。”我让他在我的小屋里待了三天三夜，这是他逃离船只后到达的第一个地方，他还没有讲完他的不幸故事。如果他是全世界最受天堂教导的吟游诗人，所有听众都对他的嘴唇着迷，那么当我坐在我的小屋里听他唱歌时，我就不会更着迷了。他说他的家族和尤利西斯的家族之间有着古老的友谊，他来自克里特岛，那里是米诺斯的后裔居住的地方，在经历了各种各样的不幸之后，他被赶到了这里和那里。他还宣称，他听说尤利西斯还活着，而且就在塞斯普罗提亚人身边，而且尤利西斯正在带回大量财富。

‘Call him here, then,’ said Penelope, ‘that I too may hear his story. As for the suitors, let them take their pleasure indoors or out as they will, for they have nothing to fret about. Their corn and wine remain unwasted in their houses with none but servants to consume them, while they keep hanging about our house day after day sacrificing our oxen, sheep, and fat goats for their banquets, and never giving so much as a thought to the quantity of wine they drink. No estate can stand such recklessness, for we have now no Ulysses to protect us. If he were to come again, he and his son would soon have their revenge.’
“那就叫他过来吧，”佩内洛普说，“这样我也可以听听他的故事。”至于追求者，就让他们在室内或室外尽情享受吧，因为他们没有什么可担心的。他们的五谷和酒留在家里，没有人浪费，只有仆人来吃，而他们却日复一日地在我们家里徘徊，宰杀我们的牛、羊和肥山羊来参加他们的宴会，根本不考虑我们的生活。他们喝的酒的数量。没有哪个阶层能够忍受这种鲁莽行为，因为我们现在没有《尤利西斯》来保护我们。如果他再来一次，他和他的儿子很快就会报仇。

As she spoke Telemachus sneezed so loudly that the whole house resounded with it. Penelope laughed when she heard this, and said to Eumaeus, ‘Go and call the stranger; did you not hear how my son sneezed just as I was speaking? This can only mean that all the suitors are going to be killed, and that not one of them shall escape. Furthermore I say, and lay my saying to your heart: if I am satisfied that the stranger is speaking the truth I shall give him a shirt and cloak of good wear.’
当她说话的时候，忒勒马科斯打了一个很大的喷嚏，声音响彻整个房子。佩内洛普听了大笑，对尤迈乌斯说：“去叫陌生人吧，他一定会来的。”你没听见我儿子在我说话的时候打了喷嚏吗？这只能意味着，所有的追求者都会被杀，没有一个能够逃脱。此外，我还说，并把我的话放在你心里：如果我确信陌生人说的是实话，我将给他一件好穿的衬衫和斗篷。

When Eumaeus heard this he went straight to Ulysses and said, ‘Father stranger, my mistress Penelope, mother of Telemachus, has sent for you; she is in great grief, but she wishes to hear anything you can tell her about her husband, and if she is satisfied that you are speaking the truth, she will give you a shirt and cloak, which are the very things that you are most in want of. As for bread, you can get enough of that to fill your belly, by begging about the town, and letting those give that will.’
欧迈俄斯一听这话，径直走到尤利西斯面前，说道：“陌生人，我的情妇佩内洛普，特勒马科斯的母亲，派人来找你了；她非常悲伤，但她希望听到你能告诉她有关她丈夫的任何事情，如果她对你说的是实话感到满意，她会给你一件衬衫和斗篷，这些正是你最喜欢的东西想要的。至于面包，你可以通过向镇上乞讨来获得足够的面包来填饱肚子，并让他们给予你的意愿。

‘I will tell Penelope,’ answered Ulysses, ‘nothing but what is strictly true. I know all about her husband, and have been partner with him in affliction, but I am afraid of passing through this crowd of cruel suitors, for their pride and insolence reach heaven. Just now, moreover, as I was going about the house without doing any harm, a man gave me a blow that hurt me very much, but neither Telemachus nor any one else defended me. Tell Penelope, therefore, to be patient and wait till sundown. Let her give me a seat close up to the fire, for my clothes are worn very thin—you know they are, for you have seen them ever since I first asked you to help me—she can then ask me about the return of her husband.’
“我会告诉佩内洛普，”尤利西斯回答道，“除了绝对真实的事情之外，什么也没有。”我了解她的丈夫，也曾与他同甘共苦，但我害怕穿过这群残忍的追求者，因为他们的骄傲和傲慢达到了天堂。而且，刚才我在房子里走来走去，没有造成任何伤害，一个人给了我一拳，使我受了重伤，但特勒马科斯和其他人都没有保护我。因此，告诉佩内洛普要有耐心，等到日落。让她给我一个靠近火炉的座位，因为我的衣服穿得很薄——你知道的，因为自从我第一次请你帮助我以来，你就看到了它们——然后她可以问我她回来的事丈夫。'

The swineherd went back when he heard this, and Penelope said as she saw him cross the threshold, ‘Why do you not bring him here, Eumaeus? Is he afraid that some one will ill-treat him, or is he shy of coming inside the house at all? Beggars should not be shamefaced.’
猪倌听到这话就回去了，佩内洛普看到他跨过门槛时说道：“你为什么不带他来这里，欧迈厄斯？他是害怕有人虐待他，还是他根本不敢进屋？乞丐不应该感到羞耻。

To this you answered, O swineherd Eumaeus, ‘The stranger is quite reasonable. He is avoiding the suitors, and is only doing what any one else would do. He asks you to wait till sundown, and it will be much better, madam, that you should have him all to yourself, when you can hear him and talk to him as you will.’
猪倌尤迈乌斯啊，对此你的回答是：“这个陌生人是很通情达理的。”他正在避开追求者，只是做其他人会做的事情。他请你等到日落，夫人，最好让你独自拥有他，这样你就可以听到他的声音，并随心所欲地与他交谈。

‘The man is no fool,’ answered Penelope, ‘it would very likely be as he says, for there are no such abominable people in the whole world as these men are.’
“这个人并不傻，”佩内洛普回答道，“很可能正如他所说，因为全世界没有像这些人这样可恶的人。”

When she had done speaking Eumaeus went back to the suitors, for he had explained everything. Then he went up to Telemachus and said in his ear so that none could overhear him, ‘My dear sir, I will now go back to the pigs, to see after your property and my own business. You will look to what is going on here, but above all be careful to keep out of danger, for there are many who bear you ill will. May Jove bring them to a bad end before they do us a mischief.’
当她说完之后，尤迈乌斯回到求婚者那里，因为他已经解释了一切。然后他走到特勒马科斯面前，在他耳边对他说，以免有人偷听他的声音：“亲爱的先生，我现在要回到猪群去，照顾你的财产和我自己的生意。”你会留意这里发生了什么，但最重要的是要小心避免危险，因为有很多人对你怀有恶意。愿天神在他们对我们造成伤害之前给他们带来不好的结局。

‘Very well,’ replied Telemachus, ‘go home when you have had your dinner, and in the morning come here with the victims we are to sacrifice for the day. Leave the rest to heaven and me.’
“很好，”忒勒马科斯回答道，“吃完晚饭就回家吧，早上带着我们今天要牺牲的受害者来到这里。剩下的就交给上天和我吧。”

On this Eumaeus took his seat again, and when he had finished his dinner he left the courts and the cloister with the men at table, and went back to his pigs. As for the suitors, they presently began to amuse themselves with singing and dancing, for it was now getting on towards evening.
欧迈乌斯再次就座，吃完晚饭后，他和餐桌上的人一起离开了庭院和回廊，回到了他的猪身边。至于追求者们，眼下已是傍晚时分，他们也开始唱歌跳舞自娱自乐。

BOOK XVIII
第十八册

THE FIGHT WITH IRUS—ULYSSES WARNS AMPHINOMUS—PENELOPE GETS PRESENTS FROM THE SUITORS—THE BRAZIERS—ULYSSES REBUKES EURYMACHUS.
与伊鲁斯的战斗——尤利西斯警告安菲诺姆斯——佩内洛普从追求者——火盆人那里得到礼物——尤利西斯斥责尤里马科斯。

Now there came a certain common tramp who used to go begging all over the city of Ithaca, and was notorious as an incorrigible glutton and drunkard. This man had no strength nor stay in him, but he was a great hulking fellow to look at; his real name, the one his mother gave him, was Arnaeus, but the young men of the place called him Irus, {148} because he used to run errands for any one who would send him. As soon as he came he began to insult Ulysses, and to try and drive him out of his own house.
现在来了一个普通的流浪汉，他经常在伊萨卡城各处乞讨，以贪吃和酗酒而臭名昭著。这个人没有力气，也没有力气，但看上去却是一个身材魁梧的家伙。他的真名是他母亲给他起的，叫阿尔奈乌斯，但当地的年轻人叫他伊鲁斯，{148} 因为他过去常常为任何愿意派他去的人跑腿。他一来就开始侮辱尤利西斯，并试图将他赶出自己的房子。

‘Be off, old man,’ he cried, ‘from the doorway, or you shall be dragged out neck and heels. Do you not see that they are all giving me the wink, and wanting me to turn you out by force, only I do not like to do so? Get up then, and go of yourself, or we shall come to blows.’
“走开，老伙计，”他喊道，“从门口出去，否则你的脖子和脚后跟都会被拖出去。”你没看到他们都在向我使眼色，想让我强行把你赶出去，只是我不喜欢这样做吗？那就起来，自己走吧，不然我们就要打架了。

Ulysses frowned on him and said, ‘My friend, I do you no manner of harm; people give you a great deal, but I am not jealous. There is room enough in this doorway for the pair of us, and you need not grudge me things that are not yours to give. You seem to be just such another tramp as myself, but perhaps the gods will give us better luck by and by. Do not, however, talk too much about fighting or you will incense me, and old though I am, I shall cover your mouth and chest with blood. I shall have more peace tomorrow if I do, for you will not come to the house of Ulysses any more.’
尤利西斯皱起眉头看着他，说道：“我的朋友，我并没有伤害你；人们给了你很多，但我并不嫉妒。这门口有足够的空间容纳我们两个人，你不必吝惜给我不属于你的东西。你看起来和我一样都是流浪汉，但也许众神会逐渐给我们更好的运气。不过，你别多说打架的事，不然你会激怒我的，我虽然老了，但我会让你的嘴和胸口沾满鲜血。如果我这样做的话，明天我会更加平静，因为你不会再去尤利西斯的家了。

Irus was very angry and answered, ‘You filthy glutton, you run on trippingly like an old fish-fag. I have a good mind to lay both hands about you, and knock your teeth out of your head like so many boar’s tusks. Get ready, therefore, and let these people here stand by and look on. You will never be able to fight one who is so much younger than yourself.’
伊鲁斯很生气，回答说：“你这个肮脏的贪食者，你像一条老鱼竿一样跌跌撞撞地跑着。”我很乐意用双手抱住你，把你的牙齿从你的头上敲下来，就像许多野猪的獠牙一样。所以，做好准备，让这些人在旁边看着吧。你永远无法与比自己年轻得多的人战斗。

Thus roundly did they rate one another on the smooth pavement in front of the doorway, {149} and when Antinous saw what was going on he laughed heartily and said to the others, ‘This is the finest sport that you ever saw; heaven never yet sent anything like it into this house. The stranger and Irus have quarreled and are going to fight, let us set them on to do so at once.’
因此，他们在门前光滑的人行道上互相评价，{149}，当安提诺斯看到发生的事情时，他开怀大笑，并对其他人说：“这是你们见过的最好的运动;上天从来没有送过这样的东西到这所房子里。陌生人和伊鲁斯吵架了，要打架了，我们赶紧让他们打起来吧。

The suitors all came up laughing, and gathered round the two ragged tramps. ‘Listen to me,’ said Antinous, ‘there are some goats’ paunches down at the fire, which we have filled with blood and fat, and set aside for supper; he who is victorious and proves himself to be the better man shall have his pick of the lot; he shall be free of our table and we will not allow any other beggar about the house at all.’
求婚者们都笑着走过来，围在两个衣衫褴褛的流浪汉周围。 “听我说，”安提诺乌斯说，“有一些山羊在火边开着肚子，我们把它们装满了血和脂肪，留作晚饭。获胜并证明自己是更好的人的人将得到他的选择；他将不再是我们的餐桌，我们也不会允许任何其他乞丐出现在我们的房子里。

The others all agreed, but Ulysses, to throw them off the scent, said, ‘Sirs, an old man like myself, worn out with suffering, cannot hold his own against a young one; but my irrepressible belly urges me on, though I know it can only end in my getting a drubbing. You must swear, however that none of you will give me a foul blow to favour Irus and secure him the victory.’
其他人都同意，但尤利西斯为了让他们摆脱这种气味，说道：“先生们，像我这样的老人，因痛苦而疲惫不堪，无法与年轻人抗衡；但我无法抑制的肚子催促着我，尽管我知道这只能以惨败告终。不过，你们必须发誓，你们中的任何人都不会为了支持伊鲁斯并确保他取得胜利而对我进行残酷的打击。

They swore as he told them, and when they had completed their oath Telemachus put in a word and said, ‘Stranger, if you have a mind to settle with this fellow, you need not be afraid of any one here. Whoever strikes you will have to fight more than one. I am host, and the other chiefs, Antinous and Eurymachus, both of them men of understanding, are of the same mind as I am.’
他们按照他所说的那样起誓，当他们完成誓言后，特勒马科斯插了一句话说：“陌生人，如果你想和这个家伙和解，你就不必害怕这里的任何人。”无论谁攻击你，都将不得不与不止一个人战斗。我是主人，其他首领安提诺斯和欧律马科斯都是有见识的人，他们的想法和我一样。

Every one assented, and Ulysses girded his old rags about his loins, thus baring his stalwart thighs, his broad chest and shoulders, and his mighty arms; but Minerva came up to him and made his limbs even stronger still. The suitors were beyond measure astonished, and one would turn towards his neighbour saying, ‘The stranger has brought such a thigh out of his old rags that there will soon be nothing left of Irus.’
所有人都同意了，尤利西斯将破烂的破布束在腰上，露出了他粗壮的大腿、宽阔的胸膛和肩膀，以及有力的手臂；但米勒娃走到他身边，使他的四肢变得更加强壮。求婚者们感到无比惊讶，其中一个人会转向他的邻居说：“这个陌生人从他的旧破烂衣服里拿出了这么一条大腿，伊鲁斯很快就会什么都不剩了。”

Irus began to be very uneasy as he heard them, but the servants girded him by force, and brought him [into the open part of the court] in such a fright that his limbs were all of a tremble. Antinous scolded him and said, ‘You swaggering bully, you ought never to have been born at all if you are afraid of such an old broken down creature as this tramp is. I say, therefore—and it shall surely be—if he beats you and proves himself the better man, I shall pack you off on board ship to the mainland and send you to king Echetus, who kills every one that comes near him. He will cut off your nose and ears, and draw out your entrails for the dogs to eat.’
伊鲁斯听到他们的声音，开始感到非常不安，但仆人们强行把他绑起来，把他带到[院子的空地]，他吓得四肢发抖。安提诺斯斥责他说：“你这个狂妄自大的恶霸，如果你害怕像这个流浪汉这样一个破旧的家伙，你根本就不应该出生。”因此，我说——而且肯定会如此——如果他打败了你并证明自己是一个更好的人，我会把你送上船去大陆，然后把你送到埃切图斯国王那里，他会杀死所有靠近他的人。他会割掉你的鼻子和耳朵，并掏出你的内脏给狗吃。

This frightened Irus still more, but they brought him into the middle of the court, and the two men raised their hands to fight. Then Ulysses considered whether he should let drive so hard at him as to make an end of him then and there, or whether he should give him a lighter blow that should only knock him down; in the end he deemed it best to give the lighter blow for fear the Achaeans should begin to suspect who he was. Then they began to fight, and Irus hit Ulysses on the right shoulder; but Ulysses gave Irus a blow on the neck under the ear that broke in the bones of his skull, and the blood came gushing out of his mouth; he fell groaning in the dust, gnashing his teeth and kicking on the ground, but the suitors threw up their hands and nearly died of laughter, as Ulysses caught hold of him by the foot and dragged him into the outer court as far as the gate-house. There he propped him up against the wall and put his staff in his hands. ‘Sit here,’ said he, ‘and keep the dogs and pigs off; you are a pitiful creature, and if you try to make yourself king of the beggars any more you shall fare still worse.’
这让伊鲁斯更加害怕，但他们把他带到了球场中央，两人举手打斗。然后尤利西斯考虑是否应该用力猛烈地攻击他，以便当场结束他，或者是否应该给他较轻的打击，只会把他击倒；最后，他认为最好给予较轻的打击，因为担心亚该亚人会开始怀疑他是谁。然后他们开始打斗，伊鲁斯击中了尤利西斯的右肩；但尤利西斯在伊鲁斯耳朵下面的脖子上打了一拳，打碎了他的头骨，鲜血从他嘴里涌出来。他在尘土中呻吟着，咬牙切齿地踢着地面，但求婚者们举起双手，差点笑死，尤利西斯抓住他的脚，把他拖到外院，一直到大门。 -房子。他将他靠在墙上，并将手杖放在手中。 “坐在这里，”他说，“别让狗和猪靠近；你是一个可怜的生物，如果你想再让自己成为乞丐之王，你的处境会更糟。

Then he threw his dirty old wallet, all tattered and torn over his shoulder with the cord by which it hung, and went back to sit down upon the threshold; but the suitors went within the cloisters, laughing and saluting him, ‘May Jove, and all the other gods,’ said they, ‘grant you whatever you want for having put an end to the importunity of this insatiable tramp. We will take him over to the mainland presently, to king Echetus, who kills every one that comes near him.’
然后他把脏兮兮的旧钱包扔在肩上，钱包破烂不堪，挂着钱包的绳子也被撕破了，然后走回门槛上坐下。但求婚者走进修道院，笑着向他致敬，“愿朱庇特和所有其他神灵，”他们说，“满足你想要的一切，因为你结束了这个贪得无厌的流浪汉的纠缠。”我们很快就会把他带到大陆，交给埃切图斯国王，他会杀死所有靠近他的人。

Ulysses hailed this as of good omen, and Antinous set a great goat’s paunch before him filled with blood and fat. Amphinomus took two loaves out of the bread-basket and brought them to him, pledging him as he did so in a golden goblet of wine. ‘Good luck to you,’ he said, ‘father stranger, you are very badly off at present, but I hope you will have better times by and by.’
尤利西斯称赞这是好兆头，安提诺斯则在他面前放了一个充满血和脂肪的山羊大腹。安菲诺莫斯从面包篮里取出两条面包，递给他，就像他在金酒杯中做出的承诺一样。 “祝你好运，”他说，“陌生人父亲，你现在的处境很糟糕，但我希望你以后会过得更好。”

To this Ulysses answered, ‘Amphinomus, you seem to be a man of good understanding, as indeed you may well be, seeing whose son you are. I have heard your father well spoken of; he is Nisus of Dulichium, a man both brave and wealthy. They tell me you are his son, and you appear to be a considerable person; listen, therefore, and take heed to what I am saying. Man is the vainest of all creatures that have their being upon earth. As long as heaven vouchsafes him health and strength, he thinks that he shall come to no harm hereafter, and even when the blessed gods bring sorrow upon him, he bears it as he needs must, and makes the best of it; for God almighty gives men their daily minds day by day. I know all about it, for I was a rich man once, and did much wrong in the stubbornness of my pride, and in the confidence that my father and my brothers would support me; therefore let a man fear God in all things always, and take the good that heaven may see fit to send him without vain glory. Consider the infamy of what these suitors are doing; see how they are wasting the estate, and doing dishonour to the wife, of one who is certain to return some day, and that, too, not long hence. Nay, he will be here soon; may heaven send you home quietly first that you may not meet with him in the day of his coming, for once he is here the suitors and he will not part bloodlessly.’
对此，尤利西斯回答道：“安菲诺摩斯，你似乎是一个很有悟性的人，事实上，你很可能是这样的，看看你是谁的儿子。”我听说你的父亲受到好评；他是杜利奇乌姆的尼苏斯，一个既勇敢又富有的人。他们告诉我你是他的儿子，而且你看上去是个大人物；因此，请听并留意我所说的话。人是地球上所有生物中最虚荣的。只要上天赐予他健康和力量，他就认为自己今后不会受到任何伤害，即使当受祝福的诸神给他带来悲伤时，他也会按自己的需要承受它，并充分利用它；因为全能的上帝日复一日地赐给人们日常的思想。我知道这一切，因为我曾经是一个富人，由于我的顽固的骄傲，以及我相信我的父亲和我的兄弟会支持我，所以做了很多错事；因此，人要在凡事上始终敬畏神，并接受上天认为合适的善事，而不是徒劳的荣耀。考虑一下这些追求者所做的恶行；看看他们是如何浪费财产的，也是对妻子的侮辱，而她的妻子肯定有一天会回来，而且不久之后也会回来。不，他很快就到了；愿上天先送你安静地回家，这样你就不会在他来的那天见到他了，因为他既然是这里的追求者，他就不会不流血地分开。

With these words he made a drink-offering, and when he had drunk he put the gold cup again into the hands of Amphinomus, who walked away serious and bowing his head, for he foreboded evil. But even so he did not escape destruction, for Minerva had doomed him to fall by the hand of Telemachus. So he took his seat again at the place from which he had come.
说完，他敬了一杯酒，喝完后，他又把金杯放到了安菲诺摩斯的手里，安菲诺摩斯严肃地低着头走开了，因为他预感到了邪恶的预兆。但即便如此，他还是没能逃脱毁灭，因为密涅瓦注定了他会死于忒勒马科斯之手。于是他又在原来的地方落座。

Then Minerva put it into the mind of Penelope to show herself to the suitors, that she might make them still more enamoured of her, and win still further honour from her son and husband. So she feigned a mocking laugh and said, ‘Eurynome, I have changed my mind, and have a fancy to show myself to the suitors although I detest them. I should like also to give my son a hint that he had better not have anything more to do with them. They speak fairly enough but they mean mischief.’
于是，密涅瓦便让佩内洛普想到，要向求婚者们展示自己，让他们更加迷恋她，并为她的儿子和丈夫赢得更多的荣誉。于是她假装嘲讽地笑道：“欧律诺墨，我改变主意了，虽然我很厌恶追求者，但我还是想在他们面前展示一下自己。”我还想给我儿子一个暗示，他最好不要再和他们有任何关系。他们说得还不错，但他们的意思是恶作剧。

‘My dear child,’ answered Eurynome, ‘all that you have said is true, go and tell your son about it, but first wash yourself and anoint your face. Do not go about with your cheeks all covered with tears; it is not right that you should grieve so incessantly; for Telemachus, whom you always prayed that you might live to see with a beard, is already grown up.’
“我亲爱的孩子，”欧律诺墨回答说，“你说的都是真的，去告诉你的儿子吧，但先洗干净你的脸，抹上油。”不要满脸泪水地走来走去；你不断地悲伤是不对的；因为你总是祈祷你能活着看到留着胡子的忒勒马科斯，他已经长大了。

‘I know, Eurynome,’ replied Penelope, ‘that you mean well, but do not try and persuade me to wash and to anoint myself, for heaven robbed me of all my beauty on the day my husband sailed; nevertheless, tell Autonoe and Hippodamia that I want them. They must be with me when I am in the cloister; I am not going among the men alone; it would not be proper for me to do so.’
“我知道，欧律诺墨，”佩内洛普回答道，“你的本意是好的，但别试图说服我去洗澡并涂油，因为在我丈夫出海的那天，上天夺走了我所有的美丽；不管怎样，告诉奥托诺埃和希波达米亚我想要他们。当我在修道院里时，他们必须和我在一起；我不会独自去人群中；我这样做是不合适的。

On this the old woman {150} went out of the room to bid the maids go to their mistress. In the meantime Minerva bethought her of another matter, and sent Penelope off into a sweet slumber; so she lay down on her couch and her limbs became heavy with sleep. Then the goddess shed grace and beauty over her that all the Achaeans might admire her. She washed her face with the ambrosial loveliness that Venus wears when she goes dancing with the Graces; she made her taller and of a more commanding figure, while as for her complexion it was whiter than sawn ivory. When Minerva had done all this she went away, whereon the maids came in from the women’s room and woke Penelope with the sound of their talking.
这时，老妇人{150}走出房间，吩咐女仆到她们的女主人那里去。与此同时，米勒娃想到了另一件事，于是送佩内洛普进入甜蜜的睡眠。于是她躺在沙发上，四肢因睡意而变得沉重。然后女神向她展示了优雅和美丽，让所有的亚该亚人都钦佩她。她用维纳斯与美惠三女神跳舞时所表现出的芬芳可爱来洗脸。她使她身材更高，更有威严，而她的肤色却比锯过的象牙还要白。密涅瓦做完这一切后就走了，女仆们从女厕所进来，用她们的谈话声吵醒了佩内洛普。

‘What an exquisitely delicious sleep I have been having,’ said she, as she passed her hands over her face, ‘in spite of all my misery. I wish Diana would let me die so sweetly now at this very moment, that I might no longer waste in despair for the loss of my dear husband, who possessed every kind of good quality and was the most distinguished man among the Achaeans.’
“我睡得多么香甜啊，”她一边说，一边用手捂住脸，“尽管我很痛苦。”我希望戴安娜能让我在此时此刻如此甜蜜地死去，这样我就不会再因失去亲爱的丈夫而陷入绝望，他拥有各种优良品质，是亚该亚人中最杰出的人。

With these words she came down from her upper room, not alone but attended by two of her maidens, and when she reached the suitors she stood by one of the bearing-posts supporting the roof of the cloister, holding a veil before her face, and with a staid maid servant on either side of her. As they beheld her the suitors were so overpowered and became so desperately enamoured of her, that each one prayed he might win her for his own bed fellow.
说完这句话，她从楼上的房间下来，不是独自一人，而是有两个侍女陪伴，当她到达求婚者时，她站在支撑回廊屋顶的一根柱子旁边，脸上蒙着面纱，她的两侧各站着一位表情严肃的女仆。当他们看到她时，求婚者们是如此势不可挡，并变得如此疯狂地迷恋她，以至于每个人都祈祷他能赢得她作为自己的同床异梦。

‘Telemachus,’ said she, addressing her son, ‘I fear you are no longer so discreet and well conducted as you used to be. When you were younger you had a greater sense of propriety; now, however, that you are grown up, though a stranger to look at you would take you for the son of a well to do father as far as size and good looks go, your conduct is by no means what it should be. What is all this disturbance that has been going on, and how came you to allow a stranger to be so disgracefully ill-treated? What would have happened if he had suffered serious injury while a suppliant in our house? Surely this would have been very discreditable to you.’
“忒勒马科斯，”她对儿子说道，“我担心你不再像以前那么谨慎和有教养了。当你年轻的时候，你的分寸感比较强；现在你已经长大了，虽然从身材和相貌上看，外人会以为你是井子之子，但你的行为却绝不是应有的。到底发生了什么事？你怎么会允许一个陌生人受到如此可耻的虐待？如果他在我们家恳求时受了重伤，会发生什么？这肯定会让你名誉扫地。

‘I am not surprised, my dear mother, at your displeasure,’ replied Telemachus, ‘I understand all about it and know when things are not as they should be, which I could not do when I was younger; I cannot, however, behave with perfect propriety at all times. First one and then another of these wicked people here keeps driving me out of my mind, and I have no one to stand by me. After all, however, this fight between Irus and the stranger did not turn out as the suitors meant it to do, for the stranger got the best of it. I wish Father Jove, Minerva, and Apollo would break the neck of every one of these wooers of yours, some inside the house and some out; and I wish they might all be as limp as Irus is over yonder in the gate of the outer court. See how he nods his head like a drunken man; he has had such a thrashing that he cannot stand on his feet nor get back to his home, wherever that may be, for he has no strength left in him.’
“我亲爱的母亲，对于您的不高兴，我并不感到惊讶，”忒勒马科斯回答道，“我明白这一切，并且知道事情何时不按其应有的方式发展，这是我年轻时做不到的；然而，我不可能在任何时候都表现得完全得体。这里的这些恶人先是一个又一个，不断地让我失去理智，而且没有人支持我。然而，毕竟，伊鲁斯和陌生人之间的这场战斗并没有按照追求者的意思进行，因为陌生人占了上风。我希望朱庇特神父、密涅瓦神父和阿波罗能扭断你每一位求爱者的脖子，有的在屋内，有的在屋外；我希望他们都像那边外院门口的伊鲁斯一样软弱无力。看他像个醉汉一样点头；他遭受了如此严重的殴打，以至于他无法站起来，也无法回到自己的家，无论他的家在哪里，因为他已经没有力气了。

Thus did they converse. Eurymachus then came up and said, ‘Queen Penelope, daughter of Icarius, if all the Achaeans in Iasian Argos could see you at this moment, you would have still more suitors in your house by tomorrow morning, for you are the most admirable woman in the whole world both as regards personal beauty and strength of understanding.’
他们就这样交谈。欧律马科斯上前说道：“伊卡里乌斯的女儿佩内洛普王后，如果现在伊亚西亚阿尔戈斯的所有亚该亚人都能看到你，到明天早上你的家里就会有更多的追求者，因为你是全希腊最令人钦佩的女人。”整个世界无论是在个人美还是理解力方面。”

To this Penelope replied, ‘Eurymachus, heaven robbed me of all my beauty whether of face or figure when the Argives set sail for Troy and my dear husband with them. If he were to return and look after my affairs, I should both be more respected and show a better presence to the world. As it is, I am oppressed with care, and with the afflictions which heaven has seen fit to heap upon me. My husband foresaw it all, and when he was leaving home he took my right wrist in his hand—‘Wife,’ he said, ‘we shall not all of us come safe home from Troy, for the Trojans fight well both with bow and spear. They are excellent also at fighting from chariots, and nothing decides the issue of a fight sooner than this. I know not, therefore, whether heaven will send me back to you, or whether I may not fall over there at Troy. In the meantime do you look after things here. Take care of my father and mother as at present, and even more so during my absence, but when you see our son growing a beard, then marry whom you will, and leave this your present home.’ This is what he said and now it is all coming true. A night will come when I shall have to yield myself to a marriage which I detest, for Jove has taken from me all hope of happiness. This further grief, moreover, cuts me to the very heart. You suitors are not wooing me after the custom of my country. When men are courting a woman who they think will be a good wife to them and who is of noble birth, and when they are each trying to win her for himself, they usually bring oxen and sheep to feast the friends of the lady, and they make her magnificent presents, instead of eating up other people’s property without paying for it.’
对此，佩内洛普回答道：“欧律马科斯，当阿尔戈斯人和我亲爱的丈夫一起启航前往特洛伊时，上天夺走了我所有的美丽，无论是容貌还是身材。”如果他回来照顾我的事务，我应该会受到更多尊重，并向世界展现出更好的风采。事实上，我被上天认为适合加在我身上的忧虑和苦难所压迫。我的丈夫预见到了这一切，当他离开家时，他握住了我的右手腕——“妻子，”他说，“我们不会所有人都从特洛伊安全回家，因为特洛伊人无论是用弓还是箭都打得很好。”矛。他们也擅长在战车上战斗，没有什么比这更能决定战斗的胜负了。因此，我不知道上天是否会把我送回你们那里，或者我是否会在特洛伊倒下。与此同时，你照顾这里的事情。像现在一样照顾我的父母，在我不在的时候更是如此，但当你看到我们的儿子长出胡子时，你想娶谁就娶谁，离开这个你现在的家。”这是他说的，现在这一切即将实现。有一天晚上，我将不得不屈服于我所厌恶的婚姻，因为天神已经夺走了我所有幸福的希望。而且，这种进一步的悲伤让我心如刀绞。你们这些追求者并不是按照我国的习俗向我求爱的。当男人们追求一个他们认为会成为他们的好妻子并且出身高贵的女人时，当他们各自试图赢得她时，他们通常会带着牛和羊来宴请这位女士的朋友，他们为她制作精美的礼物，而不是不付钱就吃掉别人的财产。”

This was what she said, and Ulysses was glad when he heard her trying to get presents out of the suitors, and flattering them with fair words which he knew she did not mean.
她是这么说的，当尤利西斯听到她试图从求婚者那里得到礼物，并用好话奉承他们时，他很高兴，但他知道她不是故意的。

Then Antinous said, ‘Queen Penelope, daughter of Icarius, take as many presents as you please from any one who will give them to you; it is not well to refuse a present; but we will not go about our business nor stir from where we are, till you have married the best man among us whoever he may be.’
安提诺斯说道：“伊卡里乌斯的女儿佩内洛普王后，如果有人愿意送给你礼物，你可以随意拿走礼物；拒绝礼物是不好的；但我们不会继续我们的生意，也不会离开我们所在的地方，直到你嫁给我们当中最好的男人，无论他是谁。

The others applauded what Antinous had said, and each one sent his servant to bring his present. Antinous’s man returned with a large and lovely dress most exquisitely embroidered. It had twelve beautifully made brooch pins of pure gold with which to fasten it. Eurymachus immediately brought her a magnificent chain of gold and amber beads that gleamed like sunlight. Eurydamas’s two men returned with some earrings fashioned into three brilliant pendants which glistened most beautifully; while king Pisander son of Polyctor gave her a necklace of the rarest workmanship, and every one else brought her a beautiful present of some kind.
其他人都为安提诺斯的话鼓掌，并各自派了自己的仆人来送礼物。安提诺乌斯的手下带着一件又大又可爱的衣服回来了，衣服上绣着最精美的图案。它有十二个制作精美的纯金胸针，用来固定它。欧律马科斯立即给她带来了一条华丽的金链和琥珀珠链，闪闪发光，像阳光一样。欧律达玛斯的两个人回来了，带来了一些耳环，这些耳环被制成了三个闪闪发光的吊坠，闪闪发光。波利克托之子皮桑德国王送给她一条做工最稀有的项链，其他人都给她带来了某种漂亮的礼物。

Then the queen went back to her room upstairs, and her maids brought the presents after her. Meanwhile the suitors took to singing and dancing, and stayed till evening came. They danced and sang till it grew dark; they then brought in three braziers {151} to give light, and piled them up with chopped firewood very old and dry, and they lit torches from them, which the maids held up turn and turn about. Then Ulysses said:
然后王后回到了楼上的房间，侍女们也把礼物送了过来。与此同时，求婚者们载歌载舞，一直待到晚上。他们载歌载舞直到天黑。然后，他们带来了三个火盆{151}来照明，并在上面堆放了非常古老和干燥的切碎的柴火，他们点燃了火把，女仆们把火把举起来转来转去。然后尤利西斯说道：

‘Maids, servants of Ulysses who has so long been absent, go to the queen inside the house; sit with her and amuse her, or spin, and pick wool. I will hold the light for all these people. They may stay till morning, but shall not beat me, for I can stand a great deal.’
“尤利西斯的女仆们，已经离开很久了，到屋里去见王后吧；坐在她身边逗她开心，或者纺纱、摘羊毛。我将为所有这些人点亮光明。他们可能会留到早上，但不会打败我，因为我能忍受很多。

The maids looked at one another and laughed, while pretty Melantho began to gibe at him contemptuously. She was daughter to Dolius, but had been brought up by Penelope, who used to give her toys to play with, and looked after her when she was a child; but in spite of all this she showed no consideration for the sorrows of her mistress, and used to misconduct herself with Eurymachus, with whom she was in love.
女仆们相视一笑，漂亮的梅兰托则开始轻蔑地嘲笑他。她是多利乌斯的女儿，由佩内洛普抚养长大，佩内洛普经常给她玩具玩，并在她小时候照顾她；但尽管如此，她并不关心女主人的悲伤，常常对她所爱的欧律马科斯做出不正当行为。

‘Poor wretch,’ said she, ‘are you gone clean out of your mind? Go and sleep in some smithy, or place of public gossips, instead of chattering here. Are you not ashamed of opening your mouth before your betters—so many of them too? Has the wine been getting into your head, or do you always babble in this way? You seem to have lost your wits because you beat the tramp Irus; take care that a better man than he does not come and cudgel you about the head till he pack you bleeding out of the house.’
“可怜的家伙，”她说，“你疯了吗？去铁匠铺或者公共闲聊的地方睡觉吧，而不是在这里闲聊。你在比你更优秀的人面前张口不感到羞耻吗——还有这么多比你强的人？酒已经进入你的头脑了吗？还是你总是这样胡言乱语？你似乎因为打败了流浪汉伊鲁斯而失去了理智；你要小心，不要有比他更好的人过来打你的头，直到他把你流血地赶出家门。”

‘Vixen,’ replied Ulysses, scowling at her, ‘I will go and tell Telemachus what you have been saying, and he will have you torn limb from limb.’
“泼妇，”尤利西斯皱起眉头看着她，回答道，“我要去告诉特勒马科斯你所说的话，他会把你撕成碎片。”

With these words he scared the women, and they went off into the body of the house. They trembled all over, for they thought he would do as he said. But Ulysses took his stand near the burning braziers, holding up torches and looking at the people—brooding the while on things that should surely come to pass.
他这句话吓坏了妇女们，她们就躲进了屋子里。他们全身颤抖，因为他们以为他会照他说的去做。但尤利西斯站在燃烧的火盆附近，举着火把，看着人们——沉思着那些肯定会发生的事情。

But Minerva would not let the suitors for one moment cease their insolence, for she wanted Ulysses to become even more bitter against them; she therefore set Eurymachus son of Polybus on to gibe at him, which made the others laugh. ‘Listen to me,’ said he, ‘you suitors of Queen Penelope, that I may speak even as I am minded. It is not for nothing that this man has come to the house of Ulysses; I believe the light has not been coming from the torches, but from his own head—for his hair is all gone, every bit of it.’
但密涅瓦一刻也不肯让求婚者停止他们的无礼行为，因为她希望尤利西斯对他们更加怨恨。因此，她让波吕波斯的儿子欧律马科斯嘲笑他，这让其他人都笑了。 “听我说，”他说，“佩内洛普王后的追求者们，我可以随心所欲地说话。这个人来到尤利西斯的家并非无缘无故。我相信那光不是来自火把，而是来自他自己的头——因为他的头发全都不见了，一点一滴都没有。

Then turning to Ulysses he said, ‘Stranger, will you work as a servant, if I send you to the wolds and see that you are well paid? Can you build a stone fence, or plant trees? I will have you fed all the year round, and will find you in shoes and clothing. Will you go, then? Not you; for you have got into bad ways, and do not want to work; you had rather fill your belly by going round the country begging.’
然后他转向尤利西斯说：“陌生人，如果我把你送到荒野并给你丰厚的报酬，你愿意做仆人吗？”你能建造石栅栏或植树吗？我会让你一年四季都有饭吃，给你穿鞋穿。那你去吗？不是你;因为你陷入了困境，不想工作；你宁愿走遍全国乞讨来填饱肚子。

‘Eurymachus,’ answered Ulysses, ‘if you and I were to work one against the other in early summer when the days are at their longest—give me a good scythe, and take another yourself, and let us see which will last the longer or mow the stronger, from dawn till dark when the mowing grass is about. Or if you will plough against me, let us each take a yoke of tawny oxen, well-mated and of great strength and endurance: turn me into a four acre field, and see whether you or I can drive the straighter furrow. If, again, war were to break out this day, give me a shield, a couple of spears and a helmet fitting well upon my temples—you would find me foremost in the fray, and would cease your gibes about my belly. You are insolent and cruel, and think yourself a great man because you live in a little world, and that a bad one. If Ulysses comes to his own again, the doors of his house are wide, but you will find them narrow when you try to fly through them.’
“欧律马科斯，”尤利西斯回答道，“如果你和我要在初夏白昼最长的时候互相较量——给我一把好镰刀，你自己拿一把，让我们看看哪一把能用得更久。”或者剪得更猛烈，从黎明到天黑，当割草的时候。或者，如果你要犁地来对抗我，那就让我们每人牵一轭黄褐色的牛，它们交配得很好，体力和耐力都很强：把我变成一块四英亩的田，看看你或我能否把犁沟犁得更直。如果今天再次爆发战争，请给我一面盾牌、几把长矛和一顶适合我太阳穴的头盔——你会发现我在战斗中处于最前面，并且会停止嘲笑我的肚子。你傲慢无礼、残忍，自以为是一个伟大的人，因为你生活在一个小世界里，而且那是一个坏世界。如果尤利西斯再次回到自己的家中，他的房子的门是宽的，但当你试图飞过去时，你会发现它们很窄。

Eurymachus was furious at all this. He scowled at him and cried, ‘You wretch, I will soon pay you out for daring to say such things to me, and in public too. Has the wine been getting into your head or do you always babble in this way? You seem to have lost your wits because you beat the tramp Irus.’ With this he caught hold of a footstool, but Ulysses sought protection at the knees of Amphinomus of Dulichium, for he was afraid. The stool hit the cupbearer on his right hand and knocked him down: the man fell with a cry flat on his back, and his wine-jug fell ringing to the ground. The suitors in the covered cloister were now in an uproar, and one would turn towards his neighbour, saying, ‘I wish the stranger had gone somewhere else, bad luck to him, for all the trouble he gives us. We cannot permit such disturbance about a beggar; if such ill counsels are to prevail we shall have no more pleasure at our banquet.’
欧律马科斯对这一切感到愤怒。他怒视着他，喊道：“你这个混蛋，我很快就会惩罚你，因为你敢对我说这样的话，而且是在公共场合。”酒已经进入你的头脑了吗？还是你总是这样胡言乱语？你似乎因为打败了流浪汉伊鲁斯而失去了理智。”说着他抓住了一个脚凳，但尤利西斯因为害怕而在杜利奇乌姆的安菲诺莫斯的膝盖上寻求保护。凳子击中了酒政的右手，把他撞倒了，那人仰天倒地，酒坛也哗啦啦地摔在了地上。带顶棚的回廊里的求婚者现在一片哗然，其中一个人会转向他的邻居，说：“我希望这个陌生人去了别的地方，祝他好运，因为他给我们带来了所有麻烦。”我们不能允许对一个乞丐进行这样的骚扰；如果这种恶意的建议占上风，我们的宴会就不会再有乐趣了。”

On this Telemachus came forward and said, ‘Sirs, are you mad? Can you not carry your meat and your liquor decently? Some evil spirit has possessed you. I do not wish to drive any of you away, but you have had your suppers, and the sooner you all go home to bed the better.’
对此，特勒马科斯上前说道：“先生们，你们疯了吗？”你的肉和酒就不能好好携带吗？某种邪灵附身了你。我不想赶走你们中的任何一个人，但你们已经吃过晚饭了，你们越早回家睡觉越好。

The suitors bit their lips and marvelled at the boldness of his speech; but Amphinomus the son of Nisus, who was son to Aretias, said, ‘Do not let us take offence; it is reasonable, so let us make no answer. Neither let us do violence to the stranger nor to any of Ulysses’ servants. Let the cupbearer go round with the drink-offerings, that we may make them and go home to our rest. As for the stranger, let us leave Telemachus to deal with him, for it is to his house that he has come.’
追求者们咬着嘴唇，惊叹于他说话的大胆。但阿雷提亚斯的儿子尼苏斯的儿子安菲诺摩斯说：“不要让我们生气；这是有道理的，所以我们不予回答。我们不要对陌生人或尤利西斯的任何仆人施暴。让酒政带着奠祭走一圈，我们好就可以回家休息了。至于那个陌生人，我们就让特勒马科斯来对付他吧，因为他是来他家的。

Thus did he speak, and his saying pleased them well, so Mulius of Dulichium, servant to Amphinomus, mixed them a bowl of wine and water and handed it round to each of them man by man, whereon they made their drink-offerings to the blessed gods: Then, when they had made their drink-offerings and had drunk each one as he was minded, they took their several ways each of them to his own abode.
他这样说，他们很高兴，于是安菲诺摩斯的仆人杜利希乌姆的穆利乌斯给他们调了一碗酒和水，一个一个地递给他们每个人，然后他们向国王献上奠祭。众神都受祝福了：然后，当他们献上奠祭，各人按自己的意思喝了酒之后，他们就分道走各路，各回自己的住处去。

BOOK XIX
第十九册

TELEMACHUS AND ULYSSES REMOVE THE ARMOUR—ULYSSES INTERVIEWS PENELOPE—EURYCLEA WASHES HIS FEET AND RECOGNISES THE SCAR ON HIS LEG—PENELOPE TELLS HER DREAM TO ULYSSES.
忒勒马科斯和尤利西斯卸下盔甲——尤利西斯采访佩内洛普——尤里克利亚洗脚并认出他腿上的伤疤——佩内洛普向尤利西斯讲述她的梦。

Ulysses was left in the cloister, pondering on the means whereby with Minerva’s help he might be able to kill the suitors. Presently he said to Telemachus, ‘Telemachus, we must get the armour together and take it down inside. Make some excuse when the suitors ask you why you have removed it. Say that you have taken it to be out of the way of the smoke, inasmuch as it is no longer what it was when Ulysses went away, but has become soiled and begrimed with soot. Add to this more particularly that you are afraid Jove may set them on to quarrel over their wine, and that they may do each other some harm which may disgrace both banquet and wooing, for the sight of arms sometimes tempts people to use them.’
尤利西斯被留在回廊里，思考着在密涅瓦的帮助下如何杀死求婚者。不久，他对特勒马科斯说：“特勒马科斯，我们必须把盔甲组装起来，然后把它拆下来。”当追求者问你为什么要删除它时，找一些借口。假设你已经把它放在远离烟雾的地方，因为它不再是尤利西斯离开时的样子，而是被烟灰弄脏了。更特别的是，你担心朱庇特可能会让他们为酒而争吵，他们可能会互相伤害，这可能会羞辱宴会和求爱，因为看到武器有时会诱使人们使用它们。

Telemachus approved of what his father had said, so he called nurse Euryclea and said, ‘Nurse, shut the women up in their room, while I take the armour that my father left behind him down into the store room. No one looks after it now my father is gone, and it has got all smirched with soot during my own boyhood. I want to take it down where the smoke cannot reach it.’
忒勒马科斯赞同他父亲的说法，于是他打电话给护士尤里克利说：“护士，把妇女们关在自己的房间里，我把父亲留下的盔甲拿到储藏室去。”现在我父亲去世了，没人照顾它，而我小时候，它也被煤灰弄脏了。我想把它拆到烟雾无法到达的地方。

‘I wish, child,’ answered Euryclea, ‘that you would take the management of the house into your own hands altogether, and look after all the property yourself. But who is to go with you and light you to the store-room? The maids would have done so, but you would not let them.’
“我希望，孩子，”尤里克利回答道，“你能把房子的管理权完全掌握在你自己手中，并亲自管理所有的财产。但是谁会陪你去储藏室呢？女仆们本来会这样做，但你不让她们这么做。

‘The stranger,’ said Telemachus, ‘shall show me a light; when people eat my bread they must earn it, no matter where they come from.’
“这个陌生人，”忒勒马科斯说道，“将给我带来光明；当人们吃我的面包时，他们必须赢得它，无论他们来自哪里。

Euryclea did as she was told, and bolted the women inside their room. Then Ulysses and his son made all haste to take the helmets, shields, and spears inside; and Minerva went before them with a gold lamp in her hand that shed a soft and brilliant radiance, whereon Telemachus said, ‘Father, my eyes behold a great marvel: the walls, with the rafters, crossbeams, and the supports on which they rest are all aglow as with a flaming fire. Surely there is some god here who has come down from heaven.’
尤丽克莉亚照她说的做了，把妇女们锁进了自己的房间。尤利西斯和他的儿子赶紧把头盔、盾牌和长矛拿了进去。密涅瓦走在他们前面，手里拿着一盏金灯，发出柔和而明亮的光芒，特勒马科斯在金灯上说道：“父亲，我的眼睛看到了一个伟大的奇迹：墙壁、椽子、横梁以及它们所依靠的支撑物。”一切都像燃烧的火焰一样炽热。这里肯定有一位神从天而降。

‘Hush,’ answered Ulysses, ‘hold your peace and ask no questions, for this is the manner of the gods. Get you to your bed, and leave me here to talk with your mother and the maids. Your mother in her grief will ask me all sorts of questions.’
“嘘，”尤利西斯回答，“保持安静，不要问任何问题，因为这是众神的行事方式。”把你抱到床上去，让我留在这里和你母亲和女佣们谈谈。你的母亲在悲伤中会问我各种各样的问题。

On this Telemachus went by torch-light to the other side of the inner court, to the room in which he always slept. There he lay in his bed till morning, while Ulysses was left in the cloister pondering on the means whereby with Minerva’s help he might be able to kill the suitors.
忒勒马科斯拿着火把走到内院的另一边，来到他经常睡觉的房间。他躺在床上直到早上，而尤利西斯则留在回廊里思考如何在密涅瓦的帮助下杀死求婚者。

Then Penelope came down from her room looking like Venus or Diana, and they set her a seat inlaid with scrolls of silver and ivory near the fire in her accustomed place. It had been made by Icmalius and had a footstool all in one piece with the seat itself; and it was covered with a thick fleece: on this she now sat, and the maids came from the women’s room to join her. They set about removing the tables at which the wicked suitors had been dining, and took away the bread that was left, with the cups from which they had drunk. They emptied the embers out of the braziers, and heaped much wood upon them to give both light and heat; but Melantho began to rail at Ulysses a second time and said, ‘Stranger, do you mean to plague us by hanging about the house all night and spying upon the women? Be off, you wretch, outside, and eat your supper there, or you shall be driven out with a firebrand.’
然后佩内洛普从她的房间下来，看起来像维纳斯或戴安娜，他们在她习惯的地方在火边给她安排了一个镶嵌着银子和象牙卷轴的座位。它是由伊克马利乌斯制作的，有一个与座椅连为一体的脚凳。上面覆盖着厚厚的羊毛：她现在坐在上面，女仆们从女厕所出来加入她。他们开始搬走邪恶求婚者用餐的桌子，拿走剩下的面包和他们喝过的杯子。他们倒空了火盆里的余烬，并在上面堆了很多木头来提供光和热。但梅兰托第二次开始责骂尤利西斯，说道：“陌生人，你整夜在屋子里闲逛，监视妇女们，是不是想给我们带来麻烦？”走吧，你这个坏蛋，到外面去，在那里吃晚饭，否则你就会被人用火把赶出去。”

Ulysses scowled at her and answered, ‘My good woman, why should you be so angry with me? Is it because I am not clean, and my clothes are all in rags, and because I am obliged to go begging about after the manner of tramps and beggars generally? I too was a rich man once, and had a fine house of my own; in those days I gave to many a tramp such as I now am, no matter who he might be nor what he wanted. I had any number of servants, and all the other things which people have who live well and are accounted wealthy, but it pleased Jove to take all away from me; therefore, woman, beware lest you too come to lose that pride and place in which you now wanton above your fellows; have a care lest you get out of favour with your mistress, and lest Ulysses should come home, for there is still a chance that he may do so. Moreover, though he be dead as you think he is, yet by Apollo’s will he has left a son behind him, Telemachus, who will note anything done amiss by the maids in the house, for he is now no longer in his boyhood.’
尤利西斯皱起眉头看着她，回答道：“我的好女人，你为什么要对我这么生气？是因为我不干净，衣服破烂，不得不像流浪汉、乞丐一样去乞讨吗？我也曾经是个富人，拥有自己的一栋漂亮的房子。那些日子里，我给了许多像现在这样的流浪汉，不管他是谁，也不管他想要什么。我有许多仆人，还有那些生活富裕、被视为富有的人所拥有的所有其他东西，但宙斯很高兴把这一切都从我身上夺走；因此，女人，要当心，以免你也失去你现在凌驾于同伴之上的骄傲和地位。你要小心，免得失去情妇的青睐，免得尤利西斯回家，因为他仍有可能回家。此外，虽然他已经死了，正如你所想的那样，但根据阿波罗的遗嘱，他在身后留下了一个儿子，忒勒马科斯，他会注意到家里女仆的任何不当行为，因为他现在已经不再是童年了。

Penelope heard what he was saying and scolded the maid, ‘Impudent baggage,’ said she, ‘I see how abominably you are behaving, and you shall smart for it. You knew perfectly well, for I told you myself, that I was going to see the stranger and ask him about my husband, for whose sake I am in such continual sorrow.’
佩内洛普听了他的话，责骂女仆：“无礼的包袱，”她说，“我看到你的行为多么可恶，你会为此而生气的。”你非常清楚，因为我亲口告诉过你，我要去见那个陌生人，向他询问我丈夫的情况，为了他，我一直处于悲伤之中。

Then she said to her head waiting woman Eurynome, ‘Bring a seat with a fleece upon it, for the stranger to sit upon while he tells his story, and listens to what I have to say. I wish to ask him some questions.’
然后她对侍候在她头顶的女人欧律诺墨说：“拿一张铺着羊毛的椅子，让陌生人坐在上面，一边讲故事，一边听我说。”我想问他一些问题。

Eurynome brought the seat at once and set a fleece upon it, and as soon as Ulysses had sat down Penelope began by saying, ‘Stranger, I shall first ask you who and whence are you? Tell me of your town and parents.’
尤利西斯一坐下，佩内洛普就开始说：“陌生人，我首先要问你是谁，从哪里来？告诉我你的城镇和父母。

‘Madam,’ answered Ulysses, ‘who on the face of the whole earth can dare to chide with you? Your fame reaches the firmament of heaven itself; you are like some blameless king, who upholds righteousness, as the monarch over a great and valiant nation: the earth yields its wheat and barley, the trees are loaded with fruit, the ewes bring forth lambs, and the sea abounds with fish by reason of his virtues, and his people do good deeds under him. Nevertheless, as I sit here in your house, ask me some other question and do not seek to know my race and family, or you will recall memories that will yet more increase my sorrow. I am full of heaviness, but I ought not to sit weeping and wailing in another person’s house, nor is it well to be thus grieving continually. I shall have one of the servants or even yourself complaining of me, and saying that my eyes swim with tears because I am heavy with wine.’
“夫人，”尤利西斯回答道，“全世界谁敢责怪您？你的名声响彻苍穹；你像一位清白的君王，秉持正义，是大国的君主，地出小麦大麦，树木结满果实，母羊产下羔羊，海里因理而盛产鱼类。他的美德，他的人民在他的领导下行善。然而，当我坐在你家里时，问我一些其他问题，不要试图了解我的种族和家庭，否则你会回忆起更多的记忆，这会更加增加我的悲伤。我心里充满了沉重，但我不应该坐在别人家里哭泣，一直这样悲伤也是不好的。我会让一个仆人，甚至你自己来抱怨我，说我因为酒太多而泪流满面。

Then Penelope answered, ‘Stranger, heaven robbed me of all beauty, whether of face or figure, when the Argives set sail for Troy and my dear husband with them. If he were to return and look after my affairs I should be both more respected and should show a better presence to the world. As it is, I am oppressed with care, and with the afflictions which heaven has seen fit to heap upon me. The chiefs from all our islands—Dulichium, Same, and Zacynthus, as also from Ithaca itself, are wooing me against my will and are wasting my estate. I can therefore show no attention to strangers, nor suppliants, nor to people who say that they are skilled artisans, but am all the time broken-hearted about Ulysses. They want me to marry again at once, and I have to invent stratagems in order to deceive them. In the first place heaven put it in my mind to set up a great tambour-frame in my room, and to begin working upon an enormous piece of fine needlework. Then I said to them, ‘Sweethearts, Ulysses is indeed dead, still, do not press me to marry again immediately; wait—for I would not have my skill in needlework perish unrecorded—till I have finished making a pall for the hero Laertes, to be ready against the time when death shall take him. He is very rich, and the women of the place will talk if he is laid out without a pall.’ This was what I said, and they assented; whereon I used to keep working at my great web all day long, but at night I would unpick the stitches again by torch light. I fooled them in this way for three years without their finding it out, but as time wore on and I was now in my fourth year, in the waning of moons, and many days had been accomplished, those good for nothing hussies my maids betrayed me to the suitors, who broke in upon me and caught me; they were very angry with me, so I was forced to finish my work whether I would or no. And now I do not see how I can find any further shift for getting out of this marriage. My parents are putting great pressure upon me, and my son chafes at the ravages the suitors are making upon his estate, for he is now old enough to understand all about it and is perfectly able to look after his own affairs, for heaven has blessed him with an excellent disposition. Still, notwithstanding all this, tell me who you are and where you come from—for you must have had father and mother of some sort; you cannot be the son of an oak or of a rock.’
佩内洛普回答道：“陌生人，当阿尔戈斯人和我亲爱的丈夫一起启航前往特洛伊时，上天剥夺了我所有的美丽，无论是容貌还是身材。”如果他回来照顾我的事务，我应该会受到更多尊重，并且应该向世界展示更好的存在。事实上，我被上天认为适合加在我身上的忧虑和苦难所压迫。来自我们所有岛屿的首领——杜利奇乌姆、萨姆和扎辛瑟斯，以及来自伊萨卡岛的首领，都在违背我的意愿向我求爱，并在浪费我的财产。因此，我不会对陌生人、恳求者或那些自称是熟练工匠但始终对《尤利西斯》心碎的人表现出任何关注。他们要我立刻再娶，我只好想出计谋来欺骗他们。首先，上天让我在我的房间里搭建了一个巨大的鼓架，并开始制作一件巨大的精美针线活。然后我对他们说：‘亲爱的，尤利西斯确实死了，但是，不要催促我立即再结婚；等待——因为我不想让我的针线活技艺在没有被记录下来的情况下消失——直到我完成了英雄莱尔提斯的遮盖，准备好迎接死亡将夺走他的那一刻。他很有钱，如果把他放在身上不加遮盖，那地方的女人就会议论纷纷。’我就是这么说的，她们也同意了。在那儿，我整天都在我的大网上工作，但到了晚上，我会用手电筒的光再次拆线。 我就这样骗了他们三年，他们也没发现，但随着时间的推移，我已经四年了，月亏了，已经过了很多日子了，那些没出息的贱女人都被我的侍女们背叛了。我去找求婚者，他们闯入并抓住了我。他们对我很生气，所以不管我愿不愿意，我都被迫完成我的工作。现在我不知道如何才能找到任何进一步的转变来摆脱这段婚姻。我的父母给我施加了很大的压力，我的儿子对求婚者对他的财产造成的破坏感到恼火，因为他现在已经足够大了，能够理解这一切，并且完全有能力照顾自己的事情，因为上天保佑他性格优秀。尽管如此，请告诉我你是谁，你来自哪里——因为你一定有某种父亲和母亲；你不可能是橡树或岩石的儿子。’

Then Ulysses answered, ‘Madam, wife of Ulysses, since you persist in asking me about my family, I will answer, no matter what it costs me: people must expect to be pained when they have been exiles as long as I have, and suffered as much among as many peoples. Nevertheless, as regards your question I will tell you all you ask. There is a fair and fruitful island in mid-ocean called Crete; it is thickly peopled and there are ninety cities in it: the people speak many different languages which overlap one another, for there are Achaeans, brave Eteocretans, Dorians of three-fold race, and noble Pelasgi. There is a great town there, Cnossus, where Minos reigned who every nine years had a conference with Jove himself. {152} Minos was father to Deucalion, whose son I am, for Deucalion had two sons Idomeneus and myself. Idomeneus sailed for Troy, and I, who am the younger, am called Aethon; my brother, however, was at once the older and the more valiant of the two; hence it was in Crete that I saw Ulysses and showed him hospitality, for the winds took him there as he was on his way to Troy, carrying him out of his course from cape Malea and leaving him in Amnisus off the cave of Ilithuia, where the harbours are difficult to enter and he could hardly find shelter from the winds that were then raging. As soon as he got there he went into the town and asked for Idomeneus, claiming to be his old and valued friend, but Idomeneus had already set sail for Troy some ten or twelve days earlier, so I took him to my own house and showed him every kind of hospitality, for I had abundance of everything. Moreover, I fed the men who were with him with barley meal from the public store, and got subscriptions of wine and oxen for them to sacrifice to their heart’s content. They stayed with me twelve days, for there was a gale blowing from the North so strong that one could hardly keep one’s feet on land. I suppose some unfriendly god had raised it for them, but on the thirteenth day the wind dropped, and they got away.’
尤利西斯回答道：“女士，尤利西斯的妻子，既然您坚持询问我的家庭情况，我就会回答，无论我付出什么代价：人们必须预料到，当他们像我一样被流放时会感到痛苦，而且许多民族都遭受同样的苦难。不过，关于你的问题，我会告诉你你所问的一切。大洋中央有一座美丽富饶的岛屿，名叫克里特岛；它人口稠密，有九十个城市：人们说着许多不同的语言，这些语言相互重叠，因为有亚该亚人、勇敢的埃特克里特人、三重种族的多里安人以及高贵的佩拉斯吉人。那里有一个伟大的城镇，克诺索斯，米诺斯在那里统治，他每九年与朱庇特本人举行一次会议。 {152} 米诺斯是丢卡利翁的父亲，我是丢卡利翁的儿子，因为丢卡利翁有两个儿子伊多墨纽斯和我自己。伊多墨纽斯乘船前往特洛伊，我是弟弟，名叫埃松。然而，我的兄弟是两人中年纪较大、也更勇敢的一个。因此，我在克里特岛见到了尤利西斯，并热情款待了他，因为当他前往特洛伊的途中，风把他带到了那里，把他从马利亚角带到了那里，把他留在了伊利苏亚洞穴附近的阿姆尼苏斯，在那里港口很难进入，他也很难找到庇护所来躲避当时肆虐的狂风。他一到那里，就进城去见伊多墨纽斯，自称是他的老朋友，但伊多墨纽斯早在十到十二天前就已经启航前往特洛伊了，所以我把他带到了我自己的家里，并告诉他。他盛情款待，因为我拥有丰富的一切。又从公铺给随从的人吃大麦粉，又订酒牛，让他们尽情祭祀。 他们和我一起待了十二天，因为从北方吹来的大风如此之大，让人几乎无法在陆地上站稳脚跟。我猜想是某个不友善的神为他们升起的，但到了第十三天，风停了，他们就逃走了。’

Many a plausible tale did Ulysses further tell her, and Penelope wept as she listened, for her heart was melted. As the snow wastes upon the mountain tops when the winds from South East and West have breathed upon it and thawed it till the rivers run bank full with water, even so did her cheeks overflow with tears for the husband who was all the time sitting by her side. Ulysses felt for her and was sorry for her, but he kept his eyes as hard as horn or iron without letting them so much as quiver, so cunningly did he restrain his tears. Then, when she had relieved herself by weeping, she turned to him again and said: ‘Now, stranger, I shall put you to the test and see whether or no you really did entertain my husband and his men, as you say you did. Tell me, then, how he was dressed, what kind of a man he was to look at, and so also with his companions.’
尤利西斯又给她讲了许多似是而非的故事，佩内洛普听着流下了眼泪，因为她的心都融化了。正如积雪在山顶上被东南风和西风吹过，融化成河水一样，她的脸颊上也为一直坐在旁边的丈夫流下了泪水。在她身边。尤利西斯为她感到难过，为她感到难过，但他的目光坚如牛角或钢铁，没有让它们颤抖，他如此狡猾地忍住了眼泪。然后，当她哭完之后，她又转向他说：“现在，陌生人，我要考验一下你，看看你是否真的像你所说的那样招待我的丈夫和他的手下。” 。那么请告诉我，他的穿着如何，他是什么样的人，以及他的同伴们。”

‘Madam,’ answered Ulysses, ‘it is such a long time ago that I can hardly say. Twenty years are come and gone since he left my home, and went elsewhither; but I will tell you as well as I can recollect. Ulysses wore a mantle of purple wool, double lined, and it was fastened by a gold brooch with two catches for the pin. On the face of this there was a device that shewed a dog holding a spotted fawn between his fore paws, and watching it as it lay panting upon the ground. Every one marvelled at the way in which these things had been done in gold, the dog looking at the fawn, and strangling it, while the fawn was struggling convulsively to escape. {153} As for the shirt that he wore next his skin, it was so soft that it fitted him like the skin of an onion, and glistened in the sunlight to the admiration of all the women who beheld it. Furthermore I say, and lay my saying to your heart, that I do not know whether Ulysses wore these clothes when he left home, or whether one of his companions had given them to him while he was on his voyage; or possibly some one at whose house he was staying made him a present of them, for he was a man of many friends and had few equals among the Achaeans. I myself gave him a sword of bronze and a beautiful purple mantle, double lined, with a shirt that went down to his feet, and I sent him on board his ship with every mark of honour. He had a servant with him, a little older than himself, and I can tell you what he was like; his shoulders were hunched, {154} he was dark, and he had thick curly hair. His name was Eurybates, and Ulysses treated him with greater familiarity than he did any of the others, as being the most like-minded with himself.’
“女士，”尤利西斯回答道，“那是很久以前的事了，我很难说。”自从他离开我的家，去了别处，二十年过去了；但我会告诉你我所能记得的。尤利西斯穿着一件紫色羊毛斗篷，双线，用一枚金色胸针固定，胸针上有两个别针。这张照片的表面有一个装置，显示一只狗用前爪夹着一只斑点小鹿，看着它躺在地上气喘吁吁。每个人都对这些用金子做的事情感到惊讶，狗看着小鹿，然后勒死它，而小鹿则痉挛地挣扎着想逃跑。 {153}至于他贴身穿着的衬衫，它非常柔软，就像洋葱皮一样适合他，并且在阳光下闪闪发光，令所有看到它的妇女钦佩不已。此外，我要向你们说实话，我不知道尤利西斯离开家时是否穿了这些衣服，或者他的一位同伴在他航行时给了他这些衣服；但我不知道这些衣服是尤利西斯离开家时穿的，还是他的一位同伴在他航行时送给他的。或者可能是他所住的某个人送给他一件礼物，因为他有很多朋友，在亚该亚人中很少有人能与他匹敌。我亲自给了他一把青铜剑和一件漂亮的紫色斗篷，双线，还有一件垂到脚边的衬衫，我带着一切荣誉把他送上了他的船。他身边有一个仆人，比他年长一点，我可以告诉你他是什么样的人。他的肩膀驼背，{154}他肤色黝黑，有一头浓密的卷发。他的名字叫尤里巴特斯，尤利西斯对他比对其他任何人都更加熟悉，因为他是与自己最志同道合的人。

Penelope was moved still more deeply as she heard the indisputable proofs that Ulysses laid before her; and when she had again found relief in tears she said to him, ‘Stranger, I was already disposed to pity you, but henceforth you shall be honoured and made welcome in my house. It was I who gave Ulysses the clothes you speak of. I took them out of the store room and folded them up myself, and I gave him also the gold brooch to wear as an ornament. Alas! I shall never welcome him home again. It was by an ill fate that he ever set out for that detested city whose very name I cannot bring myself even to mention.’
当佩内洛普听到尤利西斯摆在她面前的无可争辩的证据时，她更加感动了。当她再次流下眼泪后，她对他说：“陌生人，我本来就很同情你，但从今以后，你将在我家里受到尊重和欢迎。”你所说的衣服是我给尤利西斯的。我把它们从储藏室拿出来，自己折叠起来，还把金胸针送给了他作为装饰品。唉!我再也不会欢迎他回家了。命运多舛，他才启程前往那座令人厌恶的城市，而我什至无法提起这座城市的名字。

Then Ulysses answered, ‘Madam, wife of Ulysses, do not disfigure yourself further by grieving thus bitterly for your loss, though I can hardly blame you for doing so. A woman who has loved her husband and borne him children, would naturally be grieved at losing him, even though he were a worse man than Ulysses, who they say was like a god. Still, cease your tears and listen to what I can tell you. I will hide nothing from you, and can say with perfect truth that I have lately heard of Ulysses as being alive and on his way home; he is among the Thesprotians, and is bringing back much valuable treasure that he has begged from one and another of them; but his ship and all his crew were lost as they were leaving the Thrinacian island, for Jove and the sun-god were angry with him because his men had slaughtered the sun-god’s cattle, and they were all drowned to a man. But Ulysses stuck to the keel of the ship and was drifted on to the land of the Phaeacians, who are near of kin to the immortals, and who treated him as though he had been a god, giving him many presents, and wishing to escort him home safe and sound. In fact Ulysses would have been here long ago, had he not thought better to go from land to land gathering wealth; for there is no man living who is so wily as he is; there is no one can compare with him. Pheidon king of the Thesprotians told me all this, and he swore to me—making drink-offerings in his house as he did so—that the ship was by the water side and the crew found who would take Ulysses to his own country. He sent me off first, for there happened to be a Thesprotian ship sailing for the wheat-growing island of Dulichium, but he showed me all the treasure Ulysses had got together, and he had enough lying in the house of king Pheidon to keep his family for ten generations; but the king said Ulysses had gone to Dodona that he might learn Jove’s mind from the high oak tree, and know whether after so long an absence he should return to Ithaca openly or in secret. So you may know he is safe and will be here shortly; he is close at hand and cannot remain away from home much longer; nevertheless I will confirm my words with an oath, and call Jove who is the first and mightiest of all gods to witness, as also that hearth of Ulysses to which I have now come, that all I have spoken shall surely come to pass. Ulysses will return in this self same year; with the end of this moon and the beginning of the next he will be here.’
尤利西斯回答道：“夫人，尤利西斯的妻子，请不要因为失去你而悲痛万分，尽管我不能责怪你这样做，但请不要再进一步毁掉你自己了。”一个深爱自己的丈夫并为他生了孩子的女人，自然会因失去他而悲伤，尽管他比尤利西斯更糟糕，他们说尤利西斯就像神一样。不过，请停止流泪，听听我能告诉你什么。我不会向你隐瞒任何事情，并且可以完全诚实地说，我最近听说尤利西斯还活着并且正在回家的路上；他是塞斯普罗提安人中的一员，正在带回他向他们中的一个或另一个乞讨的许多宝贵的财富。但他的船和所有船员在离开特里纳西亚岛时都失踪了，因为朱庇特和太阳神对他很生气，因为他的手下屠杀了太阳神的牲畜，他们都被淹死了。但尤利西斯却粘在了船的龙骨上，漂流到了菲埃克斯人的土地上，菲埃克斯人是神仙的近亲，他们对待他就像对待神一样，给了他许多礼物，并希望护送他。他平安回家。事实上，如果尤利西斯没有想到更好的办法从一个地方到另一个地方收集财富，他早就在这里了。因为世上没有人比他更狡猾了。没有人可以与他相比。塞斯普罗提斯国王菲顿告诉了我这一切，他向我发誓——他在他的家里举行了奠祭——船就在水边，船员们找到了谁会把尤利西斯带到他自己的国家。 他先送我离开，因为恰好有一艘塞斯普罗提斯船正驶向种植小麦的杜利奇乌姆岛，但他向我展示了尤利西斯收集到的所有财宝，他在菲顿国王的宫殿里藏着足够多的财宝家族十代；但国王说尤利西斯去了多多纳，以便他可以从高大的橡树上了解朱庇特的想法，并知道在离开这么久之后他是否应该公开或秘密地返回伊萨卡。所以你可能知道他很安全并且很快就会到达这里；他近在咫尺，不能再离开家太久了；尽管如此，我还是要发誓证实我的话，并请众神中第一个也是最强大的朱庇特作证，同时也请我现在来到的尤利西斯的壁炉旁作证，我所说的一切都一定会实现。尤利西斯将于同年回归；随着这个月的结束和下个月的开始，他将在这里。’

‘May it be even so,’ answered Penelope; ‘if your words come true you shall have such gifts and such good will from me that all who see you shall congratulate you; but I know very well how it will be. Ulysses will not return, neither will you get your escort hence, for so surely as that Ulysses ever was, there are now no longer any such masters in the house as he was, to receive honourable strangers or to further them on their way home. And now, you maids, wash his feet for him, and make him a bed on a couch with rugs and blankets, that he may be warm and quiet till morning. Then, at day break wash him and anoint him again, that he may sit in the cloister and take his meals with Telemachus. It shall be the worse for any one of these hateful people who is uncivil to him; like it or not, he shall have no more to do in this house. For how, sir, shall you be able to learn whether or no I am superior to others of my sex both in goodness of heart and understanding, if I let you dine in my cloisters squalid and ill clad? Men live but for a little season; if they are hard, and deal hardly, people wish them ill so long as they are alive, and speak contemptuously of them when they are dead, but he that is righteous and deals righteously, the people tell of his praise among all lands, and many shall call him blessed.’
“但愿如此，”佩内洛普回答道。 ‘如果你的话成真，你将从我这里得到如此的礼物和如此好的意愿，所有看到你的人都会祝贺你；但我很清楚事情会怎样。尤利西斯不会回来，你也不会得到你的护送，因为正如尤利西斯曾经一样，现在家里不再有像他那样的主人，接待尊贵的陌生人或在他们回家的路上送他们。现在，侍女们，给他洗脚，给他在沙发上铺上床，铺上地毯和毯子，让他温暖安静地直到早晨。然后，黎明时分，再次给他清洗并涂油，这样他就可以坐在回廊里，与忒勒马科斯一起吃饭。对于这些可恶之人中的任何一个人来说，如果他对他不文明，那就更糟糕了。不管你喜欢与否，他在这所房子里已经没有什么可做的了。先生，如果我让您在我的修道院里衣衫褴褛、衣衫褴褛地吃饭，您怎么能知道我在善良和理解方面是否比其他同性更优秀呢？人的生命不过是短暂的季节；为人刚硬，行事冷酷，生时人们就祝福他，死后人们就轻蔑地议论他；但行义而行公义的人，人民在四海皆称颂他，许多人会称他为有福的。

Ulysses answered, ‘Madam, I have foresworn rugs and blankets from the day that I left the snowy ranges of Crete to go on shipboard. I will lie as I have lain on many a sleepless night hitherto. Night after night have I passed in any rough sleeping place, and waited for morning. Nor, again, do I like having my feet washed; I shall not let any of the young hussies about your house touch my feet; but, if you have any old and respectable woman who has gone through as much trouble as I have, I will allow her to wash them.’
尤利西斯回答说：“女士，从我离开克里特岛的雪域登船那天起，我就不再穿地毯和毯子了。我会像迄今为止许多个不眠之夜一样躺着。一夜又一夜，我在任何简陋的睡觉地方度过，等待着早晨。我也不喜欢洗脚；我也不喜欢洗脚。我不会让你家周围的任何年轻娘们碰我的脚；但是，如果你有任何一个年长而受人尊敬的女人，经历了和我一样多的麻烦，我会让她洗它们。

To this Penelope said, ‘My dear sir, of all the guests who ever yet came to my house there never was one who spoke in all things with such admirable propriety as you do. There happens to be in the house a most respectable old woman—the same who received my poor dear husband in her arms the night he was born, and nursed him in infancy. She is very feeble now, but she shall wash your feet.’ ‘Come here,’ said she, ‘Euryclea, and wash your master’s age-mate; I suppose Ulysses’ hands and feet are very much the same now as his are, for trouble ages all of us dreadfully fast.’
佩内洛普对此说道：“亲爱的先生，在所有来到我家的客人中，从来没有一个人像您一样在所有事情上都表现得如此得体。屋子里恰好有一位最受人尊敬的老妇人——她在我可怜的亲爱的丈夫出生的那天晚上将他抱在怀里，并在他婴儿时期喂养他。她现在很虚弱，但她会洗你的脚。” “过来，”她说，“尤里克莉亚，给你主人的同龄人洗脚。我想尤利西斯的手脚现在和他的一样了，因为麻烦让我们所有人都衰老得快得可怕。

On these words the old woman covered her face with her hands; she began to weep and made lamentation saying, ‘My dear child, I cannot think whatever I am to do with you. I am certain no one was ever more god-fearing than yourself, and yet Jove hates you. No one in the whole world ever burned him more thigh bones, nor gave him finer hecatombs when you prayed you might come to a green old age yourself and see your son grow up to take after you: yet see how he has prevented you alone from ever getting back to your own home. I have no doubt the women in some foreign palace which Ulysses has got to are gibing at him as all these sluts here have been gibing at you. I do not wonder at your not choosing to let them wash you after the manner in which they have insulted you; I will wash your feet myself gladly enough, as Penelope has said that I am to do so; I will wash them both for Penelope’s sake and for your own, for you have raised the most lively feelings of compassion in my mind; and let me say this moreover, which pray attend to; we have had all kinds of strangers in distress come here before now, but I make bold to say that no one ever yet came who was so like Ulysses in figure, voice, and feet as you are.’
说完这句话，老妇人用手捂住了脸。她开始哭泣，哀叹道：“我亲爱的孩子，我无法想象我该对你做什么。”我确信没有人比你更敬畏上帝，但朱庇特却恨你。当你祈祷自己能进入青葱岁月，看到你的儿子长大后接替你时，全世界没有人给他烧过更多的大腿骨，也没有给过他更好的尸体：但看看他如何阻止你独自一人永远回到自己的家。我毫不怀疑尤利西斯必须去的某个外国宫殿里的女人正在嘲笑他，就像这里所有这些荡妇都在嘲笑你一样。我并不奇怪你没有选择让他们按照他们侮辱你的方式给你洗澡。我很乐意亲自为你洗脚，正如佩内洛普所说，我会这样做；为了佩内洛普，也为了你自己，我会清洗它们，因为你在我心中激起了最强烈的同情心；让我再说一下，请注意；在此之前，我们曾接待过各种遇险的陌生人，但我可以大胆地说，从来没有一个人像你一样在身材、声音和脚步上如此像尤利西斯。

‘Those who have seen us both,’ answered Ulysses, ‘have always said we were wonderfully like each other, and now you have noticed it too.’
“那些见过我们俩的人，”尤利西斯回答道，“总是说我们非常相像，现在你也注意到了。”

Then the old woman took the cauldron in which she was going to wash his feet, and poured plenty of cold water into it, adding hot till the bath was warm enough. Ulysses sat by the fire, but ere long he turned away from the light, for it occurred to him that when the old woman had hold of his leg she would recognise a certain scar which it bore, whereon the whole truth would come out. And indeed as soon as she began washing her master, she at once knew the scar as one that had been given him by a wild boar when he was hunting on Mt. Parnassus with his excellent grandfather Autolycus—who was the most accomplished thief and perjurer in the whole world—and with the sons of Autolycus. Mercury himself had endowed him with this gift, for he used to burn the thigh bones of goats and kids to him, so he took pleasure in his companionship. It happened once that Autolycus had gone to Ithaca and had found the child of his daughter just born. As soon as he had done supper Euryclea set the infant upon his knees and said, ‘Autolycus, you must find a name for your grandson; you greatly wished that you might have one.’
然后，老妇人拿起她要给他洗脚的大锅，往里面倒入大量的冷水，加热水，直到浴缸足够温热。尤利西斯坐在火边，但不久他就转身离开了灯光，因为他突然想到，当老妇人抓住他的腿时，她会认出腿上有一道疤痕，整个真相就会从那里露出来。事实上，当她开始给主人洗澡时，她立刻就认出了他的伤疤是野猪留下的，当时他和他优秀的祖父奥托吕科斯（Autolycus）是最出色的小偷和伪证者，在帕纳苏斯山打猎时留下的。全世界——以及奥托吕科斯的儿子们。墨丘利本人赋予了他这种天赋，因为他经常给他烧山羊和小山羊的大腿骨，所以他很高兴有他的陪伴。有一次，奥托吕库斯去了伊萨卡岛，发现了他女儿刚刚出生的孩子。他一吃完晚饭，欧律克丽亚就把婴儿放在膝盖上，说道：“奥托吕库斯，你必须给你的孙子起个名字；你非常希望自己能拥有一个。

‘Son-in-law and daughter,’ replied Autolycus, ‘call the child thus: I am highly displeased with a large number of people in one place and another, both men and women; so name the child ‘Ulysses,’ or the child of anger. When he grows up and comes to visit his mother’s family on Mt. Parnassus, where my possessions lie, I will make him a present and will send him on his way rejoicing.’
“女婿和女儿，”奥托吕科斯回答道，“这样称呼孩子吧：我对一处又另一处有很多人感到非常不满，无论男女；所以给孩子取名为“尤利西斯”，或者愤怒之子。当他长大后，来到帕纳苏斯山拜访他母亲的家人，那里就是我的财产所在地，我会给他一份礼物，并让他满心欢喜地送他上路。

Ulysses, therefore, went to Parnassus to get the presents from Autolycus, who with his sons shook hands with him and gave him welcome. His grandmother Amphithea threw her arms about him, and kissed his head, and both his beautiful eyes, while Autolycus desired his sons to get dinner ready, and they did as he told them. They brought in a five year old bull, flayed it, made it ready and divided it into joints; these they then cut carefully up into smaller pieces and spitted them; they roasted them sufficiently and served the portions round. Thus through the livelong day to the going down of the sun they feasted, and every man had his full share so that all were satisfied; but when the sun set and it came on dark, they went to bed and enjoyed the boon of sleep.
因此，尤利西斯前往帕纳索斯，从奥托吕科斯那里获取礼物，奥托吕科斯和他的儿子们与他握手并表示欢迎。他的祖母安菲西娅张开双臂拥抱他，亲吻他的头和他美丽的眼睛，而奥托吕库斯则希望他的儿子们准备好晚餐，他们按照他的吩咐做了。他们带来一头五岁的公牛，剥去皮，准备好，然后将其分成几节；然后他们小心地将这些东西切成小块并吐掉。他们将它们充分烤熟，然后将各部分轮盘上桌。这样，他们就这样度过了漫长的一天，直到太阳落山为止，每个人都吃饱了，所以大家都心满意足。但当太阳落山、天黑时，他们就上床睡觉了。

When the child of morning, rosy-fingered Dawn, appeared, the sons of Autolycus went out with their hounds hunting, and Ulysses went too. They climbed the wooded slopes of Parnassus and soon reached its breezy upland valleys; but as the sun was beginning to beat upon the fields, fresh-risen from the slow still currents of Oceanus, they came to a mountain dell. The dogs were in front searching for the tracks of the beast they were chasing, and after them came the sons of Autolycus, among whom was Ulysses, close behind the dogs, and he had a long spear in his hand. Here was the lair of a huge boar among some thick brushwood, so dense that the wind and rain could not get through it, nor could the sun’s rays pierce it, and the ground underneath lay thick with fallen leaves. The boar heard the noise of the men’s feet, and the hounds baying on every side as the huntsmen came up to him, so he rushed from his lair, raised the bristles on his neck, and stood at bay with fire flashing from his eyes. Ulysses was the first to raise his spear and try to drive it into the brute, but the boar was too quick for him, and charged him sideways, ripping him above the knee with a gash that tore deep though it did not reach the bone. As for the boar, Ulysses hit him on the right shoulder, and the point of the spear went right through him, so that he fell groaning in the dust until the life went out of him. The sons of Autolycus busied themselves with the carcass of the boar, and bound Ulysses’ wound; then, after saying a spell to stop the bleeding, they went home as fast as they could. But when Autolycus and his sons had thoroughly healed Ulysses, they made him some splendid presents, and sent him back to Ithaca with much mutual good will. When he got back, his father and mother were rejoiced to see him, and asked him all about it, and how he had hurt himself to get the scar; so he told them how the boar had ripped him when he was out hunting with Autolycus and his sons on Mt. Parnassus.
当早晨的孩子，玫瑰色手指的黎明出现时，奥托吕库斯的儿子们带着他们的猎犬出去打猎，尤利西斯也去了。他们爬上帕纳塞斯山树木繁茂的山坡，很快就到达了微风徐徐的高地山谷。但当太阳开始照在田野上，从海神那缓慢而静止的水流中刚刚升起时，他们来到了一座山谷。狗在前面寻找它们所追赶的野兽的踪迹，奥托吕科斯的儿子们跟在他们后面，其中尤利西斯就在狗的后面，他手里拿着一根长矛。这里是一头巨大野猪的巢穴，位于茂密的灌木丛中，密密麻麻，风雨无法穿过，阳光也无法穿透，下面的地面上铺满了厚厚的落叶。野猪听到了人们的脚步声，听到猎人们向他走来时猎犬在四面八方狂吠，于是他从巢穴中冲了出来，竖起脖子上的鬃毛，站在远处，眼睛里闪烁着火焰。尤利西斯第一个举起长矛，试图将它刺入这头野兽的体内，但野猪的速度对他来说太快了，从侧面冲向他，在他的膝盖上方撕开了一道口子，虽然没有到达骨头，但伤口很深。至于那头野猪，尤利西斯击中了他的右肩，枪尖直接贯穿了他，让他倒在尘土中呻吟，直至失去生命。奥托吕库斯的儿子们忙着处理野猪的尸体，包扎尤利西斯的伤口。然后，在念了止血咒后，他们以最快的速度回家了。但是，当奥托吕库斯和他的儿子们彻底治愈了尤利西斯之后，他们给他准备了一些精美的礼物，并带着彼此的善意将他送回伊萨卡。 当他回来时，他的父亲和母亲见到他很高兴，并询问他所有的事情，以及他是如何受伤而留下疤痕的。于是他告诉他们，当他和奥托吕科斯以及他的儿子们在帕纳苏斯山打猎时，野猪是如何撕碎他的。

As soon as Euryclea had got the scarred limb in her hands and had well hold of it, she recognised it and dropped the foot at once. The leg fell into the bath, which rang out and was overturned, so that all the water was spilt on the ground; Euryclea’s eyes between her joy and her grief filled with tears, and she could not speak, but she caught Ulysses by the beard and said, ‘My dear child, I am sure you must be Ulysses himself, only I did not know you till I had actually touched and handled you.’
当尤里克利将那条伤痕累累的肢体握在手中并牢牢握住时，她认出了它，并立即放下了脚。腿掉进浴缸里，哗啦一声翻倒了，水全洒了一地；尤里克利娅的眼睛里充满了喜悦和悲伤，她说不出话来，但她抓住尤利西斯的胡子说：“我亲爱的孩子，我确信你一定是尤利西斯本人，只是我不认识你，直到我认识你。”实际上已经触摸并处理过你。

As she spoke she looked towards Penelope, as though wanting to tell her that her dear husband was in the house, but Penelope was unable to look in that direction and observe what was going on, for Minerva had diverted her attention; so Ulysses caught Euryclea by the throat with his right hand and with his left drew her close to him, and said, ‘Nurse, do you wish to be the ruin of me, you who nursed me at your own breast, now that after twenty years of wandering I am at last come to my own home again? Since it has been borne in upon you by heaven to recognise me, hold your tongue, and do not say a word about it to any one else in the house, for if you do I tell you—and it shall surely be—that if heaven grants me to take the lives of these suitors, I will not spare you, though you are my own nurse, when I am killing the other women.’
说话的时候，她看向佩内洛普，似乎想告诉她，她亲爱的丈夫就在家里，但佩内洛普无法看向那个方向，观察到底发生了什么，因为米勒娃转移了她的注意力；于是尤利西斯用右手掐住尤里克利的喉咙，用左手把她拉近自己，说道：“奶妈，你亲手哺育我，现在二十岁以后，你想毁掉我吗？”多年的漂泊，我终于又回到了自己的家吗？既然上天已经让你认出了我，那就管住你的舌头，不要对家里的任何其他人说一句话，因为如果你这样做了，我告诉你——而且肯定会——如果上天允许我夺走这些追求者的生命，当我杀死其他女人时，我不会饶恕你，尽管你是我自己的护士。

‘My child,’ answered Euryclea, ‘what are you talking about? You know very well that nothing can either bend or break me. I will hold my tongue like a stone or a piece of iron; furthermore let me say, and lay my saying to your heart, when heaven has delivered the suitors into your hand, I will give you a list of the women in the house who have been ill-behaved, and of those who are guiltless.’
“我的孩子，”欧律克莉亚回答道，“你在说什么？你很清楚，没有什么可以让我屈服或崩溃。我会像一块石头或一块铁一样控制住我的舌头；此外，让我说，把我的话放在你心里，当上天把求婚者交到你手里时，我会给你一份家里那些行为不端的女人和那些无罪的女人的名单。

And Ulysses answered, ‘Nurse, you ought not to speak in that way; I am well able to form my own opinion about one and all of them; hold your tongue and leave everything to heaven.’
尤利西斯回答说：“奶妈，你不应该这样说话；我能够对其中的一个或全部形成我自己的看法；管住你的舌头，把一切交给天堂。”

As he said this Euryclea left the cloister to fetch some more water, for the first had been all spilt; and when she had washed him and anointed him with oil, Ulysses drew his seat nearer to the fire to warm himself, and hid the scar under his rags. Then Penelope began talking to him and said:
当他说完的时候，尤里克利离开修道院去取更多的水，因为第一滴水已经全部洒了。当她给他洗澡并涂上油后，尤利西斯把他的座位拉近火炉取暖，并把伤疤藏在破布下面。然后佩内洛普开始和他说话并说道：

‘Stranger, I should like to speak with you briefly about another matter. It is indeed nearly bed time—for those, at least, who can sleep in spite of sorrow. As for myself, heaven has given me a life of such unmeasurable woe, that even by day when I am attending to my duties and looking after the servants, I am still weeping and lamenting during the whole time; then, when night comes, and we all of us go to bed, I lie awake thinking, and my heart becomes a prey to the most incessant and cruel tortures. As the dun nightingale, daughter of Pandareus, sings in the early spring from her seat in shadiest covert hid, and with many a plaintive trill pours out the tale how by mishap she killed her own child Itylus, son of king Zethus, even so does my mind toss and turn in its uncertainty whether I ought to stay with my son here, and safeguard my substance, my bondsmen, and the greatness of my house, out of regard to public opinion and the memory of my late husband, or whether it is not now time for me to go with the best of these suitors who are wooing me and making me such magnificent presents. As long as my son was still young, and unable to understand, he would not hear of my leaving my husband’s house, but now that he is full grown he begs and prays me to do so, being incensed at the way in which the suitors are eating up his property. Listen, then, to a dream that I have had and interpret it for me if you can. I have twenty geese about the house that eat mash out of a trough, {155} and of which I am exceedingly fond. I dreamed that a great eagle came swooping down from a mountain, and dug his curved beak into the neck of each of them till he had killed them all. Presently he soared off into the sky, and left them lying dead about the yard; whereon I wept in my dream till all my maids gathered round me, so piteously was I grieving because the eagle had killed my geese. Then he came back again, and perching on a projecting rafter spoke to me with human voice, and told me to leave off crying. ‘Be of good courage,’ he said, ‘daughter of Icarius; this is no dream, but a vision of good omen that shall surely come to pass. The geese are the suitors, and I am no longer an eagle, but your own husband, who am come back to you, and who will bring these suitors to a disgraceful end.’ On this I woke, and when I looked out I saw my geese at the trough eating their mash as usual.’
‘陌生人，我想和你简单谈谈另一件事。确实快到睡觉时间了——至少对于那些尽管悲伤仍能入睡的人来说是这样。至于我自己，上天却给了我这样一种无法估量的悲惨生活，以至于白天我在尽本分、照顾仆人的时候，我也一直在哭泣、哀叹；然后，当夜幕降临，我们所有人都上床睡觉时，我醒着地躺着思考，我的心成为最持续、最残酷的折磨的牺牲品。正如潘达柔斯的女儿暗色夜莺在早春时分，在她最隐蔽的座位上歌唱，用许多哀伤的颤音倾诉她如何不幸杀死了自己的孩子伊提洛斯（泽图斯国王的儿子）的故事，即使如此，我的思绪在不确定中摇摆不定，是否应该和我的儿子一起留在这里，保护我的财产、我的仆人和我的房子的伟大，出于对公众舆论和对我已故丈夫的记忆的考虑，或者是否应该这样做？现在不是我跟这些最好的追求者一起去的时候，他们正在向我求爱，还给我送了如此精美的礼物。当我的儿子还年轻、无法理解时，他不会听到我离开丈夫的房子，但现在他已经长大了，他恳求并祈祷我这样做，对求婚者的方式感到愤怒正在吞噬他的财产。那么，听听我做过的一个梦，如果可以的话，为我解释一下。我的房子周围有二十只鹅，它们吃食槽里的糊状食物，{155} 我非常喜欢它们。我梦见一只大鹰从山上俯冲而下，用弯曲的喙啄住每个人的脖子，直到把它们全部杀死。 不久，他飞上了天空，留下他们死在院子里。我在梦中哭泣，直到我所有的女仆都聚集在我身边，我感到非常悲伤，因为老鹰杀死了我的鹅。然后他又回来了，坐在一根突出的椽子上，用人声对我说话，叫我别哭了。 “要有勇气，”他说，“伊卡里乌斯的女儿；这不是梦，而是一定会实现的好兆头。鹅是追求者，而我不再是鹰，而是你自己的丈夫，他会回到你身边，他会让这些追求者落入可耻的下场。”这时我醒了，当我向外看时，我看到我的鹅在食槽里像往常一样吃着土豆泥。’

‘This dream, Madam,’ replied Ulysses, ‘can admit but of one interpretation, for had not Ulysses himself told you how it shall be fulfilled? The death of the suitors is portended, and not one single one of them will escape.’
“这个梦，女士，”尤利西斯回答道，“只能承认一种解释，因为尤利西斯本人没有告诉过你如何实现它吗？求婚者的死亡是预兆，他们中没有一个人能逃脱。

And Penelope answered, ‘Stranger, dreams are very curious and unaccountable things, and they do not by any means invariably come true. There are two gates through which these unsubstantial fancies proceed; the one is of horn, and the other ivory. Those that come through the gate of ivory are fatuous, but those from the gate of horn mean something to those that see them. I do not think, however, that my own dream came through the gate of horn, though I and my son should be most thankful if it proves to have done so. Furthermore I say—and lay my saying to your heart—the coming dawn will usher in the ill-omened day that is to sever me from the house of Ulysses, for I am about to hold a tournament of axes. My husband used to set up twelve axes in the court, one in front of the other, like the stays upon which a ship is built; he would then go back from them and shoot an arrow through the whole twelve. I shall make the suitors try to do the same thing, and whichever of them can string the bow most easily, and send his arrow through all the twelve axes, him will I follow, and quit this house of my lawful husband, so goodly and so abounding in wealth. But even so, I doubt not that I shall remember it in my dreams.’
佩内洛普回答说：“陌生人，梦是非常奇怪和无法解释的事情，而且它们无论如何都不会一定会实现。”这些不切实际的幻想有两扇门可以通过：一种是牛角，另一种是象牙。从象牙之门进来的人是愚昧的，从角门进来的人对于看见他们的人来说是有意义的。然而，我不认为我自己的梦想已经实现了，尽管如果事实证明我和我的儿子真的实现了这一点，我和我的儿子应该非常感激。此外，我还要告诉你——即将到来的黎明将迎来不祥的一天，它将把我与尤利西斯之家隔绝，因为我即将举行一场斧头比赛。我丈夫过去常常在宫廷里架起十二把斧子，一把在前，另一把在前面，就像建造一艘船的支柱一样。然后他会从他们身边回去，用一支箭射穿整个十二个人。我会让求婚者尝试做同样的事情，无论谁能最轻松地拉弓，并将他的箭射穿所有十二根斧头，我将跟随他，离开我合法丈夫的这座房子，如此美好和如此如此富有。但即便如此，我毫不怀疑我会在梦中记住它。

Then Ulysses answered, ‘Madam, wife of Ulysses, you need not defer your tournament, for Ulysses will return ere ever they can string the bow, handle it how they will, and send their arrows through the iron.’
然后尤利西斯回答道：“女士，尤利西斯的妻子，您不必推迟比赛，因为在他们拉弓、随心所欲地拉弓、将箭射入铁器之前，尤利西斯就会回来。”

To this Penelope said, ‘As long, sir, as you will sit here and talk to me, I can have no desire to go to bed. Still, people cannot do permanently without sleep, and heaven has appointed us dwellers on earth a time for all things. I will therefore go upstairs and recline upon that couch which I have never ceased to flood with my tears from the day Ulysses set out for the city with a hateful name.’
佩内洛普对此说道：“先生，只要您坐在这里跟我说话，我就不想睡觉了。”尽管如此，人们还是无法永远不睡觉，上天已经为我们地球上的居民指定了万物生长的时间。因此，我要上楼，躺在那张沙发上，自从尤利西斯出发前往这座有着可恶名字的城市的那一天起，我就一直泪流满面。

She then went upstairs to her own room, not alone, but attended by her maidens, and when there, she lamented her dear husband till Minerva shed sweet sleep over her eyelids.
然后，她上楼回到自己的房间，不是独自一人，而是由她的女仆陪伴，在那里，她哀叹她亲爱的丈夫，直到密涅瓦在她的眼皮上睡着香甜的睡眠。

BOOK XX
第二十册

ULYSSES CANNOT SLEEP—PENELOPE’S PRAYER TO DIANA—THE TWO SIGNS FROM HEAVEN—EUMAEUS AND PHILOETIUS ARRIVE—THE SUITORS DINE—CTESIPPUS THROWS AN OX’S FOOT AT ULYSSES—THEOCLYMENUS FORETELLS DISASTER AND LEAVES THE HOUSE.
尤利西斯无法入睡——佩内洛普对戴安娜的祈祷——来自天堂的两个征兆——尤迈乌斯和斐洛提乌斯到来——求婚者们进餐——克特西普斯向尤利西斯扔牛脚——神官预言灾难并离开家。

Ulysses slept in the cloister upon an undressed bullock’s hide, on the top of which he threw several skins of the sheep the suitors had eaten, and Eurynome {156} threw a cloak over him after he had laid himself down. There, then, Ulysses lay wakefully brooding upon the way in which he should kill the suitors; and by and by, the women who had been in the habit of misconducting themselves with them, left the house giggling and laughing with one another. This made Ulysses very angry, and he doubted whether to get up and kill every single one of them then and there, or to let them sleep one more and last time with the suitors. His heart growled within him, and as a bitch with puppies growls and shows her teeth when she sees a stranger, so did his heart growl with anger at the evil deeds that were being done: but he beat his breast and said, ‘Heart, be still, you had worse than this to bear on the day when the terrible Cyclops ate your brave companions; yet you bore it in silence till your cunning got you safe out of the cave, though you made sure of being killed.’
尤利西斯睡在回廊里，睡在一张没有穿衣服的牛皮上，他在上面扔了几张求婚者吃掉的羊皮，欧律诺墨（Eurynome）{156}在他躺下后给他披了一件斗篷。尤利西斯躺在那里，清醒地思考着该如何杀死求婚者。渐渐地，那些习惯于对他们做出不当行为的妇女们，互相咯咯笑着离开了家。这让尤利西斯非常生气，他犹豫着是该当场起身把他们每一个人都杀掉，还是让他们再和追求者一起睡最后一次。他的心在他体内咆哮，就像一只带着小狗的母狗看到一个陌生人时咆哮并露出牙齿一样，他的心也因所发生的恶行而愤怒地咆哮：但他捶着胸口说：“心啊，安静点，当可怕的独眼巨人吃掉你勇敢的同伴的那一天，你将承受比这更糟糕的事情；但你却默默地承受着它，直到你的狡猾让你安全地离开了山洞，尽管你肯定会被杀死。

Thus he chided with his heart, and checked it into endurance, but he tossed about as one who turns a paunch full of blood and fat in front of a hot fire, doing it first on one side and then on the other, that he may get it cooked as soon as possible, even so did he turn himself about from side to side, thinking all the time how, single handed as he was, he should contrive to kill so large a body of men as the wicked suitors. But by and by Minerva came down from heaven in the likeness of a woman, and hovered over his head saying, ‘My poor unhappy man, why do you lie awake in this way? This is your house: your wife is safe inside it, and so is your son who is just such a young man as any father may be proud of.’
于是他内心责备，并检查它的耐力，但他像一个在热火前翻动充满血和脂肪的肚子的人一样翻来覆去，先做一侧，然后再做另一侧，以便他可以尽快把它煮熟，尽管如此，他还是把自己从一边转到另一边，一直在想，尽管他是一个人，他应该设法杀死这么多邪恶的追求者。但渐渐地，密涅瓦以女人的形象从天而降，盘旋在他的头顶上，说道：“我可怜的、不幸的人，你为什么这样睡着呢？”这是你的房子：你的妻子在里面很安全，你的儿子也是如此，他是一个任何父亲都会引以为豪的年轻人。

‘Goddess,’ answered Ulysses, ‘all that you have said is true, but I am in some doubt as to how I shall be able to kill these wicked suitors single handed, seeing what a number of them there always are. And there is this further difficulty, which is still more considerable. Supposing that with Jove’s and your assistance I succeed in killing them, I must ask you to consider where I am to escape to from their avengers when it is all over.’
“女神，”尤利西斯回答道，“你所说的一切都是真的，但我有点怀疑自己如何能够单枪匹马地杀死这些邪恶的追求者，因为他们的数量总是如此之多。还有一个更大的困难。假设在朱庇特和你的帮助下我成功地杀死了他们，我必须请你考虑一下，当一切结束后，我该去哪里躲避他们的复仇者。

‘For shame,’ replied Minerva, ‘why, any one else would trust a worse ally than myself, even though that ally were only a mortal and less wise than I am. Am I not a goddess, and have I not protected you throughout in all your troubles? I tell you plainly that even though there were fifty bands of men surrounding us and eager to kill us, you should take all their sheep and cattle, and drive them away with you. But go to sleep; it is a very bad thing to lie awake all night, and you shall be out of your troubles before long.’
“真是耻辱，”密涅瓦回答道，“为什么，任何人都会相信一个比我更糟糕的盟友，尽管那个盟友只是一个凡人，而且不如我聪明。难道我不是女神，在你遇到困难的时候，我不是一直保护着你吗？我明明白白地告诉你，虽然有五十伙人围着我们，要杀我们，但你要把他们的牛羊都夺走，一并赶走。但去睡觉吧；整晚睡不着是一件非常糟糕的事情，很快你就会摆脱困境。

As she spoke she shed sleep over his eyes, and then went back to Olympus.
当她说话时，她在他的眼睛上睡着了，然后回到了奥林匹斯山。

While Ulysses was thus yielding himself to a very deep slumber that eased the burden of his sorrows, his admirable wife awoke, and sitting up in her bed began to cry. When she had relieved herself by weeping she prayed to Diana saying, ‘Great Goddess Diana, daughter of Jove, drive an arrow into my heart and slay me; or let some whirlwind snatch me up and bear me through paths of darkness till it drop me into the mouths of over-flowing Oceanus, as it did the daughters of Pandareus. The daughters of Pandareus lost their father and mother, for the gods killed them, so they were left orphans. But Venus took care of them, and fed them on cheese, honey, and sweet wine. Juno taught them to excel all women in beauty of form and understanding; Diana gave them an imposing presence, and Minerva endowed them with every kind of accomplishment; but one day when Venus had gone up to Olympus to see Jove about getting them married (for well does he know both what shall happen and what not happen to every one) the storm winds came and spirited them away to become handmaids to the dread Erinyes. Even so I wish that the gods who live in heaven would hide me from mortal sight, or that fair Diana might strike me, for I would fain go even beneath the sad earth if I might do so still looking towards Ulysses only, and without having to yield myself to a worse man than he was. Besides, no matter how much people may grieve by day, they can put up with it so long as they can sleep at night, for when the eyes are closed in slumber people forget good and ill alike; whereas my misery haunts me even in my dreams. This very night methought there was one lying by my side who was like Ulysses as he was when he went away with his host, and I rejoiced, for I believed that it was no dream, but the very truth itself.’
当尤利西斯陷入沉睡以减轻悲伤的负担时，他令人钦佩的妻子醒来了，坐在床上开始哭泣。当她哭泣缓解后，她向戴安娜祈祷说：“伟大的戴安娜女神，朱庇特的女儿，请用箭射入我的心脏并杀死我；或者让一些旋风把我抓起来，带我穿过黑暗的道路，直到它把我扔进溢出的俄刻阿诺斯的嘴里，就像潘达瑞斯的女儿们一样。潘达柔斯的女儿们被众神杀死，失去了父母，成为孤儿。但维纳斯照顾他们，给他们喂奶酪、蜂蜜和甜酒。朱诺教导她们在形式之美和理解力方面超越所有女性；戴安娜赋予了他们威风凛凛的气质，密涅瓦赋予了他们各种成就。但有一天，当维纳斯前往奥林匹斯山去见朱庇特，要他们结婚时（因为他很清楚每个人会发生什么，不会发生什么），暴风袭来，把他们偷偷带走，成为可怕的厄里涅斯的女仆。 。即便如此，我还是希望生活在天堂的众神能把我从凡人的视线中隐藏起来，或者美丽的戴安娜可能会袭击我，因为如果我仍然只看《尤利西斯》，而没有让自己屈服于一个比他更糟糕的人。而且，无论白天多么悲伤，只要晚上能睡觉，就可以忍受，因为当人们在睡梦中闭上眼睛时，人们会忘记好事和坏事；而我的痛苦甚至在梦中也困扰着我。 就在那天晚上，我觉得有一个躺在我身边的人就像尤利西斯一样，就像他和他的主人离开时一样，我很高兴，因为我相信这不是梦，而是事实本身。’

On this the day broke, but Ulysses heard the sound of her weeping, and it puzzled him, for it seemed as though she already knew him and was by his side. Then he gathered up the cloak and the fleeces on which he had lain, and set them on a seat in the cloister, but he took the bullock’s hide out into the open. He lifted up his hands to heaven, and prayed, saying ‘Father Jove, since you have seen fit to bring me over land and sea to my own home after all the afflictions you have laid upon me, give me a sign out of the mouth of some one or other of those who are now waking within the house, and let me have another sign of some kind from outside.’
天亮了，但尤利西斯听到了她哭泣的声音，这让他很困惑，因为似乎她已经认识他并且就在他身边。然后他把披风和身上的羊毛收起来，放在回廊的一个座位上，但他把公牛皮暴露在外。他向天举起双手，祈祷说：‘乔夫神父，在你给我带来的所有苦难之后，你认为适合带我穿越陆地和海洋回到我自己的家，请从口中给我一个迹象“是的，请让我看看现在在屋子里醒来的人中的某个人或其他人，让我从外面得到另一种迹象。”

Thus did he pray. Jove heard his prayer and forthwith thundered high up among the clouds from the splendour of Olympus, and Ulysses was glad when he heard it. At the same time within the house, a miller-woman from hard by in the mill room lifted up her voice and gave him another sign. There were twelve miller-women whose business it was to grind wheat and barley which are the staff of life. The others had ground their task and had gone to take their rest, but this one had not yet finished, for she was not so strong as they were, and when she heard the thunder she stopped grinding and gave the sign to her master. ‘Father Jove,’ said she, ‘you, who rule over heaven and earth, you have thundered from a clear sky without so much as a cloud in it, and this means something for somebody; grant the prayer, then, of me your poor servant who calls upon you, and let this be the very last day that the suitors dine in the house of Ulysses. They have worn me out with labour of grinding meal for them, and I hope they may never have another dinner anywhere at all.’
他就是这样祷告的。朱庇特听到了他的祈祷，立即从奥林匹斯山的辉煌中高高地在云层中发出雷鸣，尤利西斯听到后很高兴。与此同时，在房子里，磨房里的一位磨坊主妇提高了声音，又给了他一个手势。有十二名磨坊女工，她们的任务是磨磨小麦和大麦，它们是生命的支柱。其他人都已经完成了任务，都去休息了，但这个还没有完成，因为她没有他们那么强壮，当她听到雷声时，她停止了研磨，并向她的主人示意。 “朱庇特神父，”她说道，“您统治着天地，您从晴朗的天空中发出雷鸣，天空中连一丝云彩都没有，这对某人来说意义非凡；那么，请答应我你可怜的仆人对你的请求，让这成为求婚者在尤利西斯家里用餐的最后一天。他们为他们磨饭，把我累坏了，我希望他们再也不会在任何地方吃晚饭了。

Ulysses was glad when he heard the omens conveyed to him by the woman’s speech, and by the thunder, for he knew they meant that he should avenge himself on the suitors.
当尤利西斯听到女人的言语和雷声向他传达的预兆时，他很高兴，因为他知道这意味着他应该向求婚者报仇。

Then the other maids in the house rose and lit the fire on the hearth; Telemachus also rose and put on his clothes. He girded his sword about his shoulder, bound his sandals on to his comely feet, and took a doughty spear with a point of sharpened bronze; then he went to the threshold of the cloister and said to Euryclea, ‘Nurse, did you make the stranger comfortable both as regards bed and board, or did you let him shift for himself?—for my mother, good woman though she is, has a way of paying great attention to second-rate people, and of neglecting others who are in reality much better men.’
然后屋里的其他女仆都站了起来，点燃了壁炉。忒勒马科斯也起身穿上衣服。他肩上佩剑，将凉鞋绑在英俊的双脚上，拿起一支带有锋利青铜尖的坚韧长矛。然后他走到回廊的门口，对尤里克里亚说：“护士，你让这个陌生人在住宿和饮食方面都感到舒适吗？还是让他自己换地方？——对我的母亲来说，尽管她是个好女人，有一种方式非常关注二流的人，而忽视其他实际上更好的人。

‘Do not find fault child,’ said Euryclea, ‘when there is no one to find fault with. The stranger sat and drank his wine as long as he liked: your mother did ask him if he would take any more bread and he said he would not. When he wanted to go to bed she told the servants to make one for him, but he said he was such a wretched outcast that he would not sleep on a bed and under blankets; he insisted on having an undressed bullock’s hide and some sheepskins put for him in the cloister and I threw a cloak over him myself.’ {157}
“不要挑剔孩子，”尤里克利说，“当没有人可以挑剔的时候。”陌生人坐下来，想喝多久就喝多久：你母亲确实问过他是否愿意再拿点面包，他说他不会。当他想睡觉时，她让仆人为他做一张床，但他说他是一个如此可怜的被遗弃者，他不愿意睡在床上和毯子下；他坚持要在回廊里为他放一张未穿衣服的牛皮和一些羊皮，我亲自给他披了一件斗篷。”{157}

Then Telemachus went out of the court to the place where the Achaeans were meeting in assembly; he had his spear in his hand, and he was not alone, for his two dogs went with him. But Euryclea called the maids and said, ‘Come, wake up; set about sweeping the cloisters and sprinkling them with water to lay the dust; put the covers on the seats; wipe down the tables, some of you, with a wet sponge; clean out the mixing-jugs and the cups, and go for water from the fountain at once; the suitors will be here directly; they will be here early, for it is a feast day.’
然后忒勒马科斯走出宫廷，来到亚该亚人集会的地方。他手里拿着长矛，而且他并不孤单，因为他的两条狗也跟着他。尤里克利却叫来了女仆们，说道：“来吧，醒醒吧！”开始清扫回廊，并洒水以除去灰尘。将被子盖在座位上；你们中的一些人用湿海绵擦拭桌子；清理搅拌壶和杯子，立即去喷泉处取水；追求者会直接来；他们会很早就到这里，因为今天是节日。

Thus did she speak, and they did even as she had said: twenty of them went to the fountain for water, and the others set themselves busily to work about the house. The men who were in attendance on the suitors also came up and began chopping firewood. By and by the women returned from the fountain, and the swineherd came after them with the three best pigs he could pick out. These he let feed about the premises, and then he said good-humouredly to Ulysses, ‘Stranger, are the suitors treating you any better now, or are they as insolent as ever?’
她是这么说的，他们也照她说的做了：二十个人到泉水边去取水，其他人则忙着做房子的活。陪伴求婚者的人也上来开始砍柴。不久，妇女们从喷泉里回来了，猪倌带着他能挑出来的三头最好的猪跟在她们后面。他让这些东西在房子里到处传播，然后他幽默地对尤利西斯说：“陌生人，求婚者现在对你好一点了吗，还是像以前一样无礼吗？”

‘May heaven,’ answered Ulysses, ‘requite to them the wickedness with which they deal high-handedly in another man’s house without any sense of shame.’
尤利西斯回答说：“愿上天报应他们在别人家里肆无忌惮、毫无羞耻之心的邪恶行为。”

Thus did they converse; meanwhile Melanthius the goatherd came up, for he too was bringing in his best goats for the suitors’ dinner; and he had two shepherds with him. They tied the goats up under the gatehouse, and then Melanthius began gibing at Ulysses. ‘Are you still here, stranger,’ said he, ‘to pester people by begging about the house? Why can you not go elsewhere? You and I shall not come to an understanding before we have given each other a taste of our fists. You beg without any sense of decency: are there not feasts elsewhere among the Achaeans, as well as here?’
他们就这样交谈；与此同时，牧羊人梅兰修斯也走了过来，因为他也带来了最好的山羊来准备求婚者的晚餐。他身边有两个牧羊人。他们把山羊绑在门楼下，然后梅兰修斯开始嘲笑尤利西斯。 “陌生人，你还在这里缠着人们乞讨房子吗？”他说道。为什么不能去别的地方呢？在我们彼此尝过拳头的滋味之前，你我不会达成谅解。你毫无礼貌地乞求：亚该亚人在其他地方难道没有像这里一样的节日吗？

Ulysses made no answer, but bowed his head and brooded. Then a third man, Philoetius, joined them, who was bringing in a barren heifer and some goats. These were brought over by the boatmen who are there to take people over when any one comes to them. So Philoetius made his heifer and his goats secure under the gatehouse, and then went up to the swineherd. ‘Who, Swineherd,’ said he, ‘is this stranger that is lately come here? Is he one of your men? What is his family? Where does he come from? Poor fellow, he looks as if he had been some great man, but the gods give sorrow to whom they will—even to kings if it so pleases them.’
尤利西斯没有回答，只是低下头沉思起来。然后第三个人菲洛提乌斯加入了他们，他带来了一头不育的小母牛和一些山羊。这些都是船夫带来的，只要有人来，他们就会接人过来。于是菲洛提乌斯把他的小母牛和山羊拴在门楼下，然后走到猪倌那里。 “猪倌，”他说，“这个最近来到这里的陌生人是谁？他是你的手下之一吗？他的家人是什么？他从哪里来？可怜的家伙，他看起来好像是个伟人，但众神愿意给谁悲伤就给谁悲伤——甚至给国王，如果他们高兴的话。

As he spoke he went up to Ulysses and saluted him with his right hand; ‘Good day to you, father stranger,’ said he, ‘you seem to be very poorly off now, but I hope you will have better times by and by. Father Jove, of all gods you are the most malicious. We are your own children, yet you show us no mercy in all our misery and afflictions. A sweat came over me when I saw this man, and my eyes filled with tears, for he reminds me of Ulysses, who I fear is going about in just such rags as this man’s are, if indeed he is still among the living. If he is already dead and in the house of Hades, then, alas! for my good master, who made me his stockman when I was quite young among the Cephallenians, and now his cattle are countless; no one could have done better with them than I have, for they have bred like ears of corn; nevertheless I have to keep bringing them in for others to eat, who take no heed to his son though he is in the house, and fear not the wrath of heaven, but are already eager to divide Ulysses’ property among them because he has been away so long. I have often thought—only it would not be right while his son is living—of going off with the cattle to some foreign country; bad as this would be, it is still harder to stay here and be ill-treated about other people’s herds. My position is intolerable, and I should long since have run away and put myself under the protection of some other chief, only that I believe my poor master will yet return, and send all these suitors flying out of the house.’
说话的时候，他走到尤利西斯面前，用右手向他行礼。 “祝你日安，陌生人父亲，”他说，“你现在的生活似乎很穷，但我希望你的日子会慢慢好过。”朱庇特神父，诸神之中，你是最恶毒的。我们是您自己的孩子，但您对我们所有的痛苦和苦难却毫不怜悯。当我看到这个人时，我浑身冒汗，眼里充满了泪水，因为他让我想起了《尤利西斯》，如果他确实还活着的话，我担心他也会像这个人一样衣衫褴褛地到处走动。如果他已经死了并且在哈迪斯的房子里，那么，唉！感谢我的好主人，当我还很年轻的时候，他在凯法利尼亚人中就任命我为他的牲畜饲养员，现在他的牲畜数不胜数。没有人能比我更好地处理它们，因为它们像玉米穗一样繁殖。尽管如此，我还是得继续把它们带进来给其他人吃，尽管他的儿子在家里，但他们并不关心他的儿子，也不怕上天的愤怒，而是已经急于将尤利西斯的财产分给他们，因为他已经被离开这么久了。我常常想——只是在他儿子活着的时候，带着牛去某个外国是不对的；尽管这很糟糕，但留在这儿并因为其他人的牛群而受到虐待仍然更加困难。我的处境令人难以忍受，我早就应该逃走，把自己置于其他酋长的保护之下，只是我相信我可怜的主人还会回来，把所有这些追求者都赶出家门。

‘Stockman,’ answered Ulysses, ‘you seem to be a very well-disposed person, and I can see that you are a man of sense. Therefore I will tell you, and will confirm my words with an oath. By Jove, the chief of all gods, and by that hearth of Ulysses to which I am now come, Ulysses shall return before you leave this place, and if you are so minded you shall see him killing the suitors who are now masters here.’
“斯托克曼，”尤利西斯回答道，“你看起来是一个非常善良的人，我看得出你是一个有理智的人。因此我将告诉你，并以誓言证实我的话。以万神之首朱庇特的名义，通过我现在所到的尤利西斯的壁炉，尤利西斯将在你离开这个地方之前回来，如果你愿意的话，你会看到他杀死现在成为这里主人的追求者。 '

‘If Jove were to bring this to pass,’ replied the stockman, ‘you should see how I would do my very utmost to help him.’
“如果朱庇特让这一切成为现实，”牧羊人回答道，“你应该看看我会如何尽我最大的努力来帮助他。”

And in like manner Eumaeus prayed that Ulysses might return home.
尤迈厄斯也以同样的方式祈祷尤利西斯能够回家。

Thus did they converse. Meanwhile the suitors were hatching a plot to murder Telemachus: but a bird flew near them on their left hand—an eagle with a dove in its talons. On this Amphinomus said, ‘My friends, this plot of ours to murder Telemachus will not succeed; let us go to dinner instead.’
他们就这样交谈。与此同时，求婚者们正在酝酿谋杀忒勒马科斯的阴谋：但一只鸟飞到了他们的左手附近——一只鹰，爪子上叼着一只鸽子。对此，安菲诺莫斯说道：“我的朋友们，我们谋杀忒勒马科斯的阴谋不会得逞；让我们去吃晚饭吧。

The others assented, so they went inside and laid their cloaks on the benches and seats. They sacrificed the sheep, goats, pigs, and the heifer, and when the inward meats were cooked they served them round. They mixed the wine in the mixing-bowls, and the swineherd gave every man his cup, while Philoetius handed round the bread in the bread baskets, and Melanthius poured them out their wine. Then they laid their hands upon the good things that were before them.
其他人也都同意了，于是他们进了屋，把斗篷放在了长凳和座位上。他们宰杀了绵羊、山羊、猪和小母牛，当内脏煮熟后，他们就将它们提供给周围的人。他们在搅拌碗里混合酒，猪倌给每个人递上一杯酒，菲洛提乌斯则把面包篮里的面包递给大家，梅兰修斯则给他们倒酒。然后他们把手放在摆在他们面前的好东西上。

Telemachus purposely made Ulysses sit in the part of the cloister that was paved with stone; {158} he gave him a shabby looking seat at a little table to himself, and had his portion of the inward meats brought to him, with his wine in a gold cup. ‘Sit there,’ said he, ‘and drink your wine among the great people. I will put a stop to the gibes and blows of the suitors, for this is no public house, but belongs to Ulysses, and has passed from him to me. Therefore, suitors, keep your hands and your tongues to yourselves, or there will be mischief.’
特勒马科斯故意让尤利西斯坐在回廊的石头铺成的地方。 {158} 他在一张小桌子旁给了他一个看上去破旧的座位，并让人把他的内脏肉带到了他面前，他的酒装在金杯里。 “坐在那里，”他说，“和伟人一起喝酒。我会制止追求者的嘲笑和打击，因为这不是酒吧，而是属于尤利西斯的，并且已经从他那里传给了我。因此，求婚者们，请管住你们的手和你们的舌头，否则就会有恶作剧。”

The suitors bit their lips, and marvelled at the boldness of his speech; then Antinous said, ‘We do not like such language but we will put up with it, for Telemachus is threatening us in good earnest. If Jove had let us we should have put a stop to his brave talk ere now.’
追求者们咬着嘴唇，惊叹于他说话的大胆。然后安提诺斯说：“我们不喜欢这样的语言，但我们会忍受，因为忒勒马科斯正在认真地威胁我们。”如果朱庇特允许我们的话，我们现在就应该制止他的勇敢言论。

Thus spoke Antinous, but Telemachus heeded him not. Meanwhile the heralds were bringing the holy hecatomb through the city, and the Achaeans gathered under the shady grove of Apollo.
安提诺斯如此说道，但忒勒马科斯没有理会他。与此同时，使者们将神圣的坟墓带到了整个城市，亚该亚人聚集在阿波罗的阴凉的树林下。

Then they roasted the outer meat, drew it off the spits, gave every man his portion, and feasted to their heart’s content; those who waited at table gave Ulysses exactly the same portion as the others had, for Telemachus had told them to do so.
然后他们烤了外层肉，把它从烤肉叉上拔下来，给每个人一份，吃得饱饱的。那些在餐桌旁侍候的人给尤利西斯的份额与其他人完全相同，因为特勒马科斯告诉他们这样做。

But Minerva would not let the suitors for one moment drop their insolence, for she wanted Ulysses to become still more bitter against them. Now there happened to be among them a ribald fellow, whose name was Ctesippus, and who came from Same. This man, confident in his great wealth, was paying court to the wife of Ulysses, and said to the suitors, ‘Hear what I have to say. The stranger has already had as large a portion as any one else; this is well, for it is not right nor reasonable to ill-treat any guest of Telemachus who comes here. I will, however, make him a present on my own account, that he may have something to give to the bath-woman, or to some other of Ulysses’ servants.’
但密涅瓦一刻也不肯让求婚者放下傲慢，因为她希望尤利西斯对他们更加怨恨。他们当中碰巧有一个下流的家伙，他的名字叫克特西普斯，来自塞姆。这个男人对自己的巨大财富充满信心，正在向尤利西斯的妻子求爱，并对求婚者说：“听听我要说的话。”陌生人已经和其他人一样吃了一大份；这很好，因为虐待任何来到这里的忒勒马科斯客人是不正确也不合理的。不过，我会为自己准备一份礼物，让他可以送给女洗澡者，或者尤利西斯的其他仆人。

As he spoke he picked up a heifer’s foot from the meat-basket in which it lay, and threw it at Ulysses, but Ulysses turned his head a little aside, and avoided it, smiling grimly Sardinian fashion {159} as he did so, and it hit the wall, not him. On this Telemachus spoke fiercely to Ctesippus, ‘It is a good thing for you,’ said he, ‘that the stranger turned his head so that you missed him. If you had hit him I should have run you through with my spear, and your father would have had to see about getting you buried rather than married in this house. So let me have no more unseemly behaviour from any of you, for I am grown up now to the knowledge of good and evil and understand what is going on, instead of being the child that I have been heretofore. I have long seen you killing my sheep and making free with my corn and wine: I have put up with this, for one man is no match for many, but do me no further violence. Still, if you wish to kill me, kill me; I would far rather die than see such disgraceful scenes day after day—guests insulted, and men dragging the women servants about the house in an unseemly way.’
当他说话时，他从肉篮里捡起一只小母牛的脚，扔向尤利西斯，但尤利西斯将头稍稍偏向一边，避开了它，同时以撒丁岛的方式冷酷地微笑着{159}，它撞到了墙上，而不是他。对此，忒勒马科斯对克特西普斯恶狠狠地说道：“这对你来说是件好事，因为这个陌生人转过头，你就错过了他。”如果你打了他，我就会用我的矛刺穿你，而你的父亲将不得不考虑把你埋葬，而不是在这所房子里结婚。所以，请不要再有你们任何人的不体面的行为，因为我现在已经长大了，知道了善恶，明白了正在发生的事情，而不是像以前那样是个孩子。我早就看到你杀了我的羊，抢走了我的谷物和酒：我已经忍受了这一点，因为一人敌不过多人，但不要再对我施暴了。不过，你若想杀我，就杀我吧；我宁愿死，也不愿日复一日地看到这种不光彩的场景——客人受到侮辱，男人以不体面的方式拖着女佣在家里走来走去。

They all held their peace till at last Agelaus son of Damastor said, ‘No one should take offence at what has just been said, nor gainsay it, for it is quite reasonable. Leave off, therefore, ill-treating the stranger, or any one else of the servants who are about the house; I would say, however, a friendly word to Telemachus and his mother, which I trust may commend itself to both. ‘As long,’ I would say, ‘as you had ground for hoping that Ulysses would one day come home, no one could complain of your waiting and suffering {160} the suitors to be in your house. It would have been better that he should have returned, but it is now sufficiently clear that he will never do so; therefore talk all this quietly over with your mother, and tell her to marry the best man, and the one who makes her the most advantageous offer. Thus you will yourself be able to manage your own inheritance, and to eat and drink in peace, while your mother will look after some other man’s house, not yours.’’
他们都保持沉默，直到最后达马斯托尔的儿子阿格劳斯说道：“没有人应该对刚才所说的话感到生气，也不要反驳它，因为这是相当有道理的。”因此，不要虐待陌生人或家里的任何其他仆人；不过，我想对特勒马科斯和他的母亲说一句友好的话，我相信这对他们俩来说都是好事。 “只要，”我会说，“只要你有理由希望尤利西斯有一天能回家，就没有人会抱怨你在等待和忍受{160}求婚者来到你的房子里。他要是回来就好了，但现在已经很清楚了，他永远不会回来了。因此，请与你的母亲安静地讨论这一切，并告诉她嫁给最好的男人，以及为她提供最优惠条件的男人。这样你就可以自己管理自己的遗产，安心吃喝，而你的母亲会照顾别人的房子，而不是你的房子。”

To this Telemachus answered, ‘By Jove, Agelaus, and by the sorrows of my unhappy father, who has either perished far from Ithaca, or is wandering in some distant land, I throw no obstacles in the way of my mother’s marriage; on the contrary I urge her to choose whomsoever she will, and I will give her numberless gifts into the bargain, but I dare not insist point blank that she shall leave the house against her own wishes. Heaven forbid that I should do this.’
特勒马科斯对此回答说：“以朱庇特、阿格劳斯的名义，以我不幸的父亲的悲伤为证，他要么在远离伊萨卡的地方死去，要么在遥远的地方漂泊，我不会在我母亲的婚姻路上设置任何障碍；相反，我敦促她选择任何她愿意的人，并且我会送她无数的礼物作为交易，但我不敢直截了当地坚持让她违背自己的意愿离开家。老天爷不允许我这么做。”

Minerva now made the suitors fall to laughing immoderately, and set their wits wandering; but they were laughing with a forced laughter. Their meat became smeared with blood; their eyes filled with tears, and their hearts were heavy with forebodings. Theoclymenus saw this and said, ‘Unhappy men, what is it that ails you? There is a shroud of darkness drawn over you from head to foot, your cheeks are wet with tears; the air is alive with wailing voices; the walls and roof-beams drip blood; the gate of the cloisters and the court beyond them are full of ghosts trooping down into the night of hell; the sun is blotted out of heaven, and a blighting gloom is over all the land.’
米勒娃现在让求婚者们放声大笑，让他们神志不清。但他们却在强颜欢笑。他们的肉沾满了血；他们的眼里充满了泪水，他们的心里充满了不祥的预感。狄俄克利美努斯看到了这一点，说道：“不幸的人们，到底是什么让你们烦恼呢？”黑暗笼罩着你，从头到脚，你的脸颊被泪水浸湿；空气中充满了哀号声；墙壁和梁上滴着血；修道院的大门和后面的庭院里充满了成群结队进入地狱之夜的鬼魂。太阳从天上消失了，一片昏暗笼罩着大地。

Thus did he speak, and they all of them laughed heartily. Eurymachus then said, ‘This stranger who has lately come here has lost his senses. Servants, turn him out into the streets, since he finds it so dark here.’
他此言一出，众人都哈哈大笑起来。欧律马科斯接着说道：“这个最近来到这里的陌生人已经失去了知觉。”仆人们，把他赶到街上，因为他发现这里太黑了。

But Theoclymenus said, ‘Eurymachus, you need not send any one with me. I have eyes, ears, and a pair of feet of my own, to say nothing of an understanding mind. I will take these out of the house with me, for I see mischief overhanging you, from which not one of you men who are insulting people and plotting ill deeds in the house of Ulysses will be able to escape.’
但狄俄克利美努斯说：“欧律马科斯，你不需要派任何人跟我一起去。”我有眼睛、有耳朵、有一双自己的脚，更不用说有悟性了。我会把这些东西带出屋子，因为我看到你们正面临着恶作剧，你们这些在尤利西斯家里侮辱人民、密谋恶行的人，没有一个能够逃脱。

He left the house as he spoke, and went back to Piraeus who gave him welcome, but the suitors kept looking at one another and provoking Telemachus by laughing at the strangers. One insolent fellow said to him, ‘Telemachus, you are not happy in your guests; first you have this importunate tramp, who comes begging bread and wine and has no skill for work or for hard fighting, but is perfectly useless, and now here is another fellow who is setting himself up as a prophet. Let me persuade you, for it will be much better to put them on board ship and send them off to the Sicels to sell for what they will bring.’
说话间，他离开了家，回到比雷埃夫斯，比雷埃夫斯对他表示欢迎，但求婚者们一直互相看着对方，嘲笑陌生人，激怒了特勒马科斯。一个无礼的家伙对他说：“忒勒马科斯，你对你的客人不高兴；首先是这个纠缠不休的流浪汉，他来乞讨面包和酒，没有工作技能，也没有艰苦的战斗能力，完全没用，现在又来了一个自封为先知的家伙。让我说服你吧，因为最好把他们送上船，然后送到西塞尔人那里，卖掉他们能带来的东西。

Telemachus gave him no heed, but sate silently watching his father, expecting every moment that he would begin his attack upon the suitors.
忒勒马科斯没有理睬他，只是静静地看着他的父亲，时刻期待他会开始攻击求婚者。

Meanwhile the daughter of Icarius, wise Penelope, had had a rich seat placed for her facing the court and cloisters, so that she could hear what every one was saying. The dinner indeed had been prepared amid much merriment; it had been both good and abundant, for they had sacrificed many victims; but the supper was yet to come, and nothing can be conceived more gruesome than the meal which a goddess and a brave man were soon to lay before them—for they had brought their doom upon themselves.
与此同时，伊卡里乌斯的女儿，聪明的佩内洛普，为她安排了一张面向宫廷和回廊的豪华座位，这样她就可以听到每个人在说什么。晚餐确实是在一片欢乐气氛中准备好的。它既美好又丰富，因为他们牺牲了许多受害者。但晚餐还没有到来，没有什么比女神和勇敢的男人即将摆在他们面前的这顿饭更可怕的了——因为他们已经给自己带来了厄运。

BOOK XXI
第二十一册

THE TRIAL OF THE AXES, DURING WHICH ULYSSES REVEALS HIMSELF TO EUMAEUS AND PHILOETIUS
斧头的审判，在此期间尤利西斯向尤迈乌斯和斐洛提乌斯展示了自己的身份

Minerva now put it in Penelope’s mind to make the suitors try their skill with the bow and with the iron axes, in contest among themselves, as a means of bringing about their destruction. She went upstairs and got the store-room key, which was made of bronze and had a handle of ivory; she then went with her maidens into the store-room at the end of the house, where her husband’s treasures of gold, bronze, and wrought iron were kept, and where was also his bow, and the quiver full of deadly arrows that had been given him by a friend whom he had met in Lacedaemon—Iphitus the son of Eurytus. The two fell in with one another in Messene at the house of Ortilochus, where Ulysses was staying in order to recover a debt that was owing from the whole people; for the Messenians had carried off three hundred sheep from Ithaca, and had sailed away with them and with their shepherds. In quest of these Ulysses took a long journey while still quite young, for his father and the other chieftains sent him on a mission to recover them. Iphitus had gone there also to try and get back twelve brood mares that he had lost, and the mule foals that were running with them. These mares were the death of him in the end, for when he went to the house of Jove’s son, mighty Hercules, who performed such prodigies of valour, Hercules to his shame killed him, though he was his guest, for he feared not heaven’s vengeance, nor yet respected his own table which he had set before Iphitus, but killed him in spite of everything, and kept the mares himself. It was when claiming these that Iphitus met Ulysses, and gave him the bow which mighty Eurytus had been used to carry, and which on his death had been left by him to his son. Ulysses gave him in return a sword and a spear, and this was the beginning of a fast friendship, although they never visited at one another’s houses, for Jove’s son Hercules killed Iphitus ere they could do so. This bow, then, given him by Iphitus, had not been taken with him by Ulysses when he sailed for Troy; he had used it so long as he had been at home, but had left it behind as having been a keepsake from a valued friend.
密涅瓦现在让佩内洛普的想法是让追求者们尝试他们的弓箭和铁斧技巧，在他们之间进行竞争，以此作为毁灭他们的手段。她上楼拿到了储藏室的钥匙，钥匙是青铜做的，把手是象牙的。然后，她和她的侍女们走进房子尽头的储藏室，那里存放着她丈夫的金器、青铜器和锻铁宝藏，还有他的弓和装满致命箭的箭袋。这是他在拉栖代梦认识的一位朋友——欧律图斯的儿子伊菲图斯送给他的。两人在梅塞涅的奥尔提洛科斯家里相遇，尤利西斯为了追回全民欠下的一笔债务而住在那里。因为麦西尼亚人从伊萨卡带走了三百只羊，并与它们和牧羊人一起乘船离开了。为了寻找这些，尤利西斯在还很年轻的时候就走了很长的路，因为他的父亲和其他酋长派他去执行找回它们的任务。伊菲图斯也去那里试图找回他失去的十二匹母马，以及与它们一起奔跑的骡马驹。这些母马最终导致了他的死亡，因为当他前往朱庇特的儿子、强大的赫拉克勒斯的家中时，赫拉克勒斯表现出了如此多的英勇神迹，赫拉克勒斯羞愧地杀了他，尽管他是他的客人，因为他不惧怕天堂的惩罚。他既不顾自己的报复，也不尊重他在伊菲托斯面前摆下的餐桌，而是不顾一切地杀了他，自己留下了母马。正是在领取这些物品时，伊菲图斯遇见了尤利西斯，并将这把强大的尤里图斯曾经携带的弓给了他，在他死后，这把弓被他留给了他的儿子。 作为回报，尤利西斯给了他一把剑和一支矛，这是一段快速友谊的开始，尽管他们从未拜访过彼此的房子，因为朱庇特的儿子赫拉克勒斯在他们这样做之前就杀死了伊菲托斯。那么，这把弓是伊菲托斯给他的，尤利西斯在前往特洛伊时并没有随身携带。自从他在家以来，他一直在使用它，但他把它留下来作为一位尊贵朋友的纪念品。

Penelope presently reached the oak threshold of the store-room; the carpenter had planed this duly, and had drawn a line on it so as to get it quite straight; he had then set the door posts into it and hung the doors. She loosed the strap from the handle of the door, put in the key, and drove it straight home to shoot back the bolts that held the doors; {161} these flew open with a noise like a bull bellowing in a meadow, and Penelope stepped upon the raised platform, where the chests stood in which the fair linen and clothes were laid by along with fragrant herbs: reaching thence, she took down the bow with its bow case from the peg on which it hung. She sat down with it on her knees, weeping bitterly as she took the bow out of its case, and when her tears had relieved her, she went to the cloister where the suitors were, carrying the bow and the quiver, with the many deadly arrows that were inside it. Along with her came her maidens, bearing a chest that contained much iron and bronze which her husband had won as prizes. When she reached the suitors, she stood by one of the bearing-posts supporting the roof of the cloister, holding a veil before her face, and with a maid on either side of her. Then she said:
佩内洛普很快就到达了储藏室的橡木门槛。木匠把它刨平了，并在上面画了一条线，让它变得笔直。然后他把门柱装进去，挂上门。她松开门把手上的带子，插入钥匙，然后径直开回家，将门上的螺栓击退。 {161} 这些飞开的声音就像一头公牛在草地上咆哮，佩内洛普踩在升高的平台上，那里有箱子，里面放着漂亮的亚麻布和衣服以及芬芳的香草：到达那里，她拿下了弓及其挂在其上的弓盒。她坐下来，把它放在膝盖上，当她从盒子里取出弓时，她痛哭起来，当她的泪水缓解了她的情绪后，她带着弓和箭袋，带着许多致命的东西，去了求婚者所在的修道院。里面的箭头。和她一起来的还有她的侍女们，她们带着一个箱子，里面装着她丈夫作为战利品赢得的大量铁和青铜。当她到达求婚者面前时，她站在支撑修道院屋顶的一根支柱旁，脸上蒙着面纱，两侧各有一名女仆。然后她说：

‘Listen to me you suitors, who persist in abusing the hospitality of this house because its owner has been long absent, and without other pretext than that you want to marry me; this, then, being the prize that you are contending for, I will bring out the mighty bow of Ulysses, and whomsoever of you shall string it most easily and send his arrow through each one of twelve axes, him will I follow and quit this house of my lawful husband, so goodly, and so abounding in wealth. But even so I doubt not that I shall remember it in my dreams.’
“听我说，你们这些追求者，因为主人长期不在而坚持滥用这所房子的热情好客，除了想要嫁给我之外没有其他借口；那么，作为你们争夺的战利品，我将拿出尤利西斯强大的弓，你们中谁能最轻松地拉开它，并将他的箭射入十二根斧头中的每一根，我将跟随他并结束这场战斗我合法丈夫的房子非常好，而且非常富有。但即便如此，我毫不怀疑我会在梦中记住它。

As she spoke, she told Eumaeus to set the bow and the pieces of iron before the suitors, and Eumaeus wept as he took them to do as she had bidden him. Hard by, the stockman wept also when he saw his master’s bow, but Antinous scolded them. ‘You country louts,’ said he, ‘silly simpletons; why should you add to the sorrows of your mistress by crying in this way? She has enough to grieve her in the loss of her husband; sit still, therefore, and eat your dinners in silence, or go outside if you want to cry, and leave the bow behind you. We suitors shall have to contend for it with might and main, for we shall find it no light matter to string such a bow as this is. There is not a man of us all who is such another as Ulysses; for I have seen him and remember him, though I was then only a child.’
当她说话时，她告诉尤迈厄斯将弓和铁片放在求婚者面前，尤迈厄斯在接受他们按照她的吩咐去做时哭了。不远处，牧羊人看到主人的弓时也哭了，但安提诺斯责骂了他们。 “你们这些乡下的笨蛋，”他说，“愚蠢的傻瓜；你何必这样哭，给你的情妇增添悲伤呢？失去丈夫已经足以让她感到悲伤；因此，请安静地坐着，安静地吃晚饭，如果你想哭，就出去走走，把鞠躬留在身后。我们这些追求者必须竭尽全力去争取它，因为我们会发现拉上这样一张弓绝非易事。我们当中没有一个人能像尤利西斯那样。因为我见过他并记得他，尽管我当时只是个孩子。

This was what he said, but all the time he was expecting to be able to string the bow and shoot through the iron, whereas in fact he was to be the first that should taste of the arrows from the hands of Ulysses, whom he was dishonouring in his own house—egging the others on to do so also.
他是这么说的，但他一直期待着能够拉弓射铁，而事实上他是第一个尝到尤利西斯手中箭的人，而他就是尤利西斯。在自己的家里丢脸——怂恿其他人也这样做。

Then Telemachus spoke. ‘Great heavens!’ he exclaimed, ‘Jove must have robbed me of my senses. Here is my dear and excellent mother saying she will quit this house and marry again, yet I am laughing and enjoying myself as though there were nothing happening. But, suitors, as the contest has been agreed upon, let it go forward. It is for a woman whose peer is not to be found in Pylos, Argos, or Mycene, nor yet in Ithaca nor on the mainland. You know this as well as I do; what need have I to speak in praise of my mother? Come on, then, make no excuses for delay, but let us see whether you can string the bow or no. I too will make trial of it, for if I can string it and shoot through the iron, I shall not suffer my mother to quit this house with a stranger, not if I can win the prizes which my father won before me.’
然后忒勒马科斯说话了。 “天哪！”他惊呼道，“天神一定夺走了我的知觉。”我亲爱的、优秀的母亲说她要离开这个家，重新结婚，而我却笑得很开心，好像什么事都没有发生一样。但是，追求者们，既然比赛已经达成一致，就让它继续吧。它是为一位在皮洛斯、阿尔戈斯或迈锡尼、伊萨卡或大陆上找不到同等地位的女性而设计的。你和我一样清楚这一点；我有什么必要称赞我的母亲呢？那么，来吧，不要为拖延找借口，让我们看看你是否可以拉弓。我也要尝试一下，因为如果我能把它串起来并射穿铁，我就不会允许我的母亲和一个陌生人离开这所房子，如果我能赢得我父亲在我之前赢得的奖品的话。

As he spoke he sprang from his seat, threw his crimson cloak from him, and took his sword from his shoulder. First he set the axes in a row, in a long groove which he had dug for them, and had made straight by line. {162} Then he stamped the earth tight round them, and everyone was surprised when they saw him set them up so orderly, though he had never seen anything of the kind before. This done, he went on to the pavement to make trial of the bow; thrice did he tug at it, trying with all his might to draw the string, and thrice he had to leave off, though he had hoped to string the bow and shoot through the iron. He was trying for the fourth time, and would have strung it had not Ulysses made a sign to check him in spite of all his eagerness. So he said:
说话间，他从座位上跳了起来，脱下深红色的斗篷，从肩上取下剑。首先，他把斧头排成一排，放在他为斧头挖的长槽里，并按线排直。 {162}然后他将它们紧紧地踩在地上，当每个人看到他将它们布置得如此有序时，都感到惊讶，尽管他以前从未见过这种情况。做完这些，他走到人行道上试一下弓。他三次用力拉弓，试图拉动弓弦，但第三次他不得不停下来，尽管他本来希望拉紧弓并射穿铁杆。他已经第四次尝试了，如果不是尤利西斯做出阻止他的手势，尽管他非常渴望，他早就把它串起来了。所以他说：

‘Alas! I shall either be always feeble and of no prowess, or I am too young, and have not yet reached my full strength so as to be able to hold my own if any one attacks me. You others, therefore, who are stronger than I, make trial of the bow and get this contest settled.’
'唉！我要么永远是软弱无能，要么是我太年轻，力量还没有达到完全，一旦有人攻击我，我还能坚守住自己的力量。所以，比我强的你们，就来试一下弓，来解决这场比赛吧。”

On this he put the bow down, letting it lean against the door [that led into the house] with the arrow standing against the top of the bow. Then he sat down on the seat from which he had risen, and Antinous said:
然后他把弓放下，让它靠在门上（通向房子的门），箭抵在弓的顶部。然后他在起身的座位上坐下，安提诺斯说道：

‘Come on each of you in his turn, going towards the right from the place at which the cupbearer begins when he is handing round the wine.’
“你们每个人依次上来，从酒政递酒时开始的地方向右走。”

The rest agreed, and Leiodes son of Oenops was the first to rise. He was sacrificial priest to the suitors, and sat in the corner near the mixing-bowl. {163} He was the only man who hated their evil deeds and was indignant with the others. He was now the first to take the bow and arrow, so he went on to the pavement to make his trial, but he could not string the bow, for his hands were weak and unused to hard work, they therefore soon grew tired, and he said to the suitors, ‘My friends, I cannot string it; let another have it, this bow shall take the life and soul out of many a chief among us, for it is better to die than to live after having missed the prize that we have so long striven for, and which has brought us so long together. Some one of us is even now hoping and praying that he may marry Penelope, but when he has seen this bow and tried it, let him woo and make bridal offerings to some other woman, and let Penelope marry whoever makes her the best offer and whose lot it is to win her.’
其余的人都同意了，俄诺普斯的儿子莱奥德斯第一个站了起来。他是求婚者的祭祀牧师，坐在搅拌碗附近的角落里。 {163} 他是唯一一个憎恨他们的恶行并对其他人感到愤怒的人。他现在第一个拿了弓箭，就到人行道上试一试，但他拉不上弓，因为他的双手无力，不劳而获，很快就累了，他对求婚者说：“我的朋友们，我不能把它串起来；”让另一个人拥有它吧，这把弓会夺走我们许多酋长的生命和灵魂，因为在错过了我们长期以来为之奋斗、为我们带来了如此长时间的奖赏之后，死总比活着好。一起。我们中的一些人甚至现在就希望并祈祷他可以嫁给佩内洛普，但是当他看到这把弓并尝试过之后，让他向其他女人求爱并向其他女人献上新娘供品，让佩内洛普嫁给给她最好的报价的人赢得她是谁的命运。

On this he put the bow down, letting it lean against the door, {164} with the arrow standing against the tip of the bow. Then he took his seat again on the seat from which he had risen; and Antinous rebuked him saying:
在此之上，他放下弓，让它靠在门上，{164}，箭抵在弓尖上。然后他又在他起身的座位上坐下。安提诺斯斥责他说：

‘Leiodes, what are you talking about? Your words are monstrous and intolerable; it makes me angry to listen to you. Shall, then, this bow take the life of many a chief among us, merely because you cannot bend it yourself? True, you were not born to be an archer, but there are others who will soon string it.’
「雷里奥德斯，你在说什么？你的言语令人难以忍受；听你说话让我很生气。那么，这把弓是否会仅仅因为你自己无法弯曲它而夺走我们当中许多酋长的生命呢？确实，你不是天生的弓箭手，但其他人很快就会成为弓箭手。

Then he said to Melanthius the goatherd, ‘Look sharp, light a fire in the court, and set a seat hard by with a sheep skin on it; bring us also a large ball of lard, from what they have in the house. Let us warm the bow and grease it—we will then make trial of it again, and bring the contest to an end.’
然后他对牧羊人梅兰修斯说：“看清楚，在院子里生火，在旁边放一张硬座，上面铺上一张羊皮；还给我们带来了一大块猪油，是他们家里的东西。我们先把弓暖一下，涂上油，然后再试一试，比赛就结束了。”

Melanthius lit the fire, and set a seat covered with sheep skins beside it. He also brought a great ball of lard from what they had in the house, and the suitors warmed the bow and again made trial of it, but they were none of them nearly strong enough to string it. Nevertheless there still remained Antinous and Eurymachus, who were the ringleaders among the suitors and much the foremost among them all.
梅兰修斯点燃了火，并在旁边放了一张铺着羊皮的椅子。他还从家里的东西里拿出了一大块猪油，求婚者们把弓加热了一下，再次试了一下，但他们都没有足够的力量来拉弦。尽管如此，安提诺乌斯和欧律马科斯仍然存在，他们是求婚者中的头目，也是他们中最重要的。

Then the swineherd and the stockman left the cloisters together, and Ulysses followed them. When they had got outside the gates and the outer yard, Ulysses said to them quietly:
然后，猪倌和畜牧人一起离开了修道院，尤利西斯跟在他们后面。当他们走出大门和外院时，尤利西斯轻声对他们说道：

‘Stockman, and you swineherd, I have something in my mind which I am in doubt whether to say or no; but I think I will say it. What manner of men would you be to stand by Ulysses, if some god should bring him back here all of a sudden? Say which you are disposed to do—to side with the suitors, or with Ulysses?’
“斯托克曼，你这个猪倌，我心里有件事，不知道该说还是不说；但我想我会这么说。如果某个神突然将尤利西斯带回这里，你会是什么样的人来支持他？说说你打算做什么——站在追求者一边，还是站在尤利西斯一边？

‘Father Jove,’ answered the stockman, ‘would indeed that you might so ordain it. If some god were but to bring Ulysses back, you should see with what might and main I would fight for him.’
“朱庇特神父，”牧羊人回答说，“确实希望您能如此指定它。如果有某个神要把尤利西斯带回来，你应该看看我会用什么力量和主要力量为他而战。

In like words Eumaeus prayed to all the gods that Ulysses might return; when, therefore, he saw for certain what mind they were of, Ulysses said, ‘It is I, Ulysses, who am here. I have suffered much, but at last, in the twentieth year, I am come back to my own country. I find that you two alone of all my servants are glad that I should do so, for I have not heard any of the others praying for my return. To you two, therefore, will I unfold the truth as it shall be. If heaven shall deliver the suitors into my hands, I will find wives for both of you, will give you house and holding close to my own, and you shall be to me as though you were brothers and friends of Telemachus. I will now give you convincing proofs that you may know me and be assured. See, here is the scar from the boar’s tooth that ripped me when I was out hunting on Mt. Parnassus with the sons of Autolycus.’
欧迈俄斯也用类似的话向诸神祈祷，希望尤利西斯能够回来。因此，当他确切地看出他们的想法时，尤利西斯说：“是我，尤利西斯，在这里。”我受了很多苦，但终于在第二十个年头，我回到了自己的祖国。我发现我所有的仆人中只有你们两个很高兴我这样做，因为我没有听到其他人为我回来祈祷。因此，我将向你们两位揭示真相。如果上天将求婚者交到我手中，我将为你们俩找到妻子，给你们房子，并与我自己的房子紧密相连，而你们对我来说就像是特勒马科斯的兄弟和朋友一样。我现在将给你令人信服的证据，让你了解我并放心。看，这是我和奥托吕科斯的儿子们一起去帕纳苏斯山打猎时被野猪牙齿撕破的疤痕。

As he spoke he drew his rags aside from the great scar, and when they had examined it thoroughly, they both of them wept about Ulysses, threw their arms round him, and kissed his head and shoulders, while Ulysses kissed their hands and faces in return. The sun would have gone down upon their mourning if Ulysses had not checked them and said:
当他说话的时候，他把破布从大伤疤上拉开，当他们彻底检查了它之后，他们俩都为尤利西斯哭泣，用双臂搂住他，亲吻他的头和肩膀，而尤利西斯则亲吻他们的手和脸。返回。如果尤利西斯没有检查他们并说道：

‘Cease your weeping, lest some one should come outside and see us, and tell those who are within. When you go in, do so separately, not both together; I will go first, and do you follow afterwards; let this moreover be the token between us; the suitors will all of them try to prevent me from getting hold of the bow and quiver; do you, therefore, Eumaeus, place it in my hands when you are carrying it about, and tell the women to close the doors of their apartment. If they hear any groaning or uproar as of men fighting about the house, they must not come out; they must keep quiet, and stay where they are at their work. And I charge you, Philoetius, to make fast the doors of the outer court, and to bind them securely at once.’
‘止住哭泣吧，免得有人从外面看见我们，并告诉里面的人。进去时要分开，不要一起进去；我先走，你后跟；让它成为我们之间的信物；求婚者们都会试图阻止我拿到弓和箭袋；因此，Eumaeus，当你带着它到处走的时候，把它放在我手里，并告诉女人们关上她们公寓的门。如果他们听到人们为房屋打架的呻吟声或喧闹声，他们就不得出来；他们必须保持安静，留在原地工作。菲洛提乌斯，我吩咐你把外院的门锁紧，并立即把它们绑牢。

When he had thus spoken, he went back to the house and took the seat that he had left. Presently, his two servants followed him inside.
说完，他就回到屋里，坐到了他留下的座位上。很快，他的两个仆人就跟着他走了进去。

At this moment the bow was in the hands of Eurymachus, who was warming it by the fire, but even so he could not string it, and he was greatly grieved. He heaved a deep sigh and said, ‘I grieve for myself and for us all; I grieve that I shall have to forgo the marriage, but I do not care nearly so much about this, for there are plenty of other women in Ithaca and elsewhere; what I feel most is the fact of our being so inferior to Ulysses in strength that we cannot string his bow. This will disgrace us in the eyes of those who are yet unborn.’
这时，弓到了欧律马科斯的手里，他正在火上烤火，但即便如此，他也无法上弦，他非常悲痛。他深深地叹了口气，说道：“我为自己和我们所有人感到悲伤；我很遗憾我将不得不放弃婚姻，但我对此并不太关心，因为伊萨卡和其他地方还有很多其他女人；我感触最深的是，我们的力量远远不如尤利西斯，无法为他拉弓。这会让我们在那些尚未出生的人眼中蒙羞。”

‘It shall not be so, Eurymachus,’ said Antinous, ‘and you know it yourself. Today is the feast of Apollo throughout all the land; who can string a bow on such a day as this? Put it on one side—as for the axes they can stay where they are, for no one is likely to come to the house and take them away: let the cupbearer go round with his cups, that we may make our drink-offerings and drop this matter of the bow; we will tell Melanthius to bring us in some goats tomorrow—the best he has; we can then offer thigh bones to Apollo the mighty archer, and again make trial of the bow, so as to bring the contest to an end.’
“事情不会是这样的，欧律马科斯，”安提诺斯说，“你自己也知道这一点。今天是全国各地的阿波罗节；在这样的日子里谁能拉弓呢？把它放在一边——至于斧头，它们可以留在原处，因为没有人会来到房子里把它们拿走：让酒政带着他的杯子走一走，这样我们就可以献上奠祭，放下弓这件事；我们会告诉梅兰修斯明天给我们带来一些山羊——他拥有的最好的山羊；然后，我们可以将大腿骨献给神箭手阿波罗，并再次试弓，以结束比赛。

The rest approved his words, and thereon men servants poured water over the hands of the guests, while pages filled the mixing-bowls with wine and water and handed it round after giving every man his drink-offering. Then, when they had made their offerings and had drunk each as much as he desired, Ulysses craftily said:—
其余的人都赞同他的话，于是仆人们把水倒在客人的手上，而侍者则在搅拌碗里盛满酒和水，并在给每个人敬酒后分发给大家。然后，当他们献上祭品并各自喝了自己想要喝的酒后，尤利西斯狡猾地说：

‘Suitors of the illustrious queen, listen that I may speak even as I am minded. I appeal more especially to Eurymachus, and to Antinous who has just spoken with so much reason. Cease shooting for the present and leave the matter to the gods, but in the morning let heaven give victory to whom it will. For the moment, however, give me the bow that I may prove the power of my hands among you all, and see whether I still have as much strength as I used to have, or whether travel and neglect have made an end of it.’
“尊贵女王的追求者们，听着，我可以随心所欲地说话。我尤其呼吁欧律马科斯和安提诺斯，他刚才的讲话很有道理。暂时停止射击，把事情留给众神，但到了早上，让上天将胜利赐给它愿意的人。不过，现在请向我鞠躬，以便我可以在你们所有人中证明我双手的力量，看看我是否还像以前一样有力量，或者旅行和疏忽是否已经结束了我的力量。 '

This made them all very angry, for they feared he might string the bow, Antinous therefore rebuked him fiercely saying, ‘Wretched creature, you have not so much as a grain of sense in your whole body; you ought to think yourself lucky in being allowed to dine unharmed among your betters, without having any smaller portion served you than we others have had, and in being allowed to hear our conversation. No other beggar or stranger has been allowed to hear what we say among ourselves; the wine must have been doing you a mischief, as it does with all those who drink immoderately. It was wine that inflamed the Centaur Eurytion when he was staying with Peirithous among the Lapithae. When the wine had got into his head, he went mad and did ill deeds about the house of Peirithous; this angered the heroes who were there assembled, so they rushed at him and cut off his ears and nostrils; then they dragged him through the doorway out of the house, so he went away crazed, and bore the burden of his crime, bereft of understanding. Henceforth, therefore, there was war between mankind and the centaurs, but he brought it upon himself through his own drunkenness. In like manner I can tell you that it will go hardly with you if you string the bow: you will find no mercy from any one here, for we shall at once ship you off to king Echetus, who kills every one that comes near him: you will never get away alive, so drink and keep quiet without getting into a quarrel with men younger than yourself.’
这让他们都很生气，生怕他拉弓，安提诺斯恶狠狠地斥责他说：“可怜的家伙，你全身都没有一点知觉，你根本就没有知觉。”你应该觉得自己很幸运，能够不受伤害地与比你更好的人一起用餐，所吃的份量没有比我们其他人少，而且能够听到我们的谈话。不允许其他乞丐或陌生人听到我们彼此之间的谈话；酒肯定对你造成了伤害，就像它对所有酗酒的人造成的伤害一样。当半人马欧律提翁与皮里托斯住在拉皮泰人中时，正是酒使他发炎。当酒喝醉后，他发疯了，对佩里托斯家族做了坏事。这激怒了聚集在那里的英雄们，他们冲向他，割掉了他的耳朵和鼻孔。然后他们把他拖进门口，出了屋子，他就疯了，背负着自己的罪行，失去了理智。因此，从此以后，人类和半人马之间发生了战争，但他却因为自己的醉酒而自招了战争。同样地，我可以告诉你，如果你上弦，你的处境会很艰难：你不会在这里得到任何人的怜悯，因为我们将立即把你送到埃切图斯国王那里，他会杀死所有靠近他的人：你永远不会活着离开，所以喝酒并保持安静，不要与比你年轻的人争吵。

Penelope then spoke to him. ‘Antinous,’ said she, ‘it is not right that you should ill-treat any guest of Telemachus who comes to this house. If the stranger should prove strong enough to string the mighty bow of Ulysses, can you suppose that he would take me home with him and make me his wife? Even the man himself can have no such idea in his mind: none of you need let that disturb his feasting; it would be out of all reason.’
佩内洛普随后对他说话。 “安提诺斯，”她说，“你虐待任何来到这所房子的忒勒马科斯的客人是不对的。如果这个陌生人证明自己足够强大，能够拉紧尤利西斯的强力弓，你能想象他会把我带回家，让我成为他的妻子吗？就连他自己心里也不可能有这样的想法：你们谁也不必让这件事打扰他的盛宴；这是毫无理由的。

‘Queen Penelope,’ answered Eurymachus, ‘we do not suppose that this man will take you away with him; it is impossible; but we are afraid lest some of the baser sort, men or women among the Achaeans, should go gossiping about and say, ‘These suitors are a feeble folk; they are paying court to the wife of a brave man whose bow not one of them was able to string, and yet a beggarly tramp who came to the house strung it at once and sent an arrow through the iron.’ This is what will be said, and it will be a scandal against us.’
“佩内洛普王后，”欧律马科斯回答道，“我们认为这个人不会带你一起走；是不可能的;但我们担心亚该亚人中的一些卑鄙的男人或女人会到处说闲话，说：‘这些求婚者是一群软弱的人；他们正在向一位勇敢者的妻子求爱，他们中没有人能够拉开她的弓，然而一个来到家里的乞丐立刻拉开了弓，并把一支箭射穿了铁器。说，这将成为我们的丑闻。

‘Eurymachus,’ Penelope answered, ‘people who persist in eating up the estate of a great chieftain and dishonouring his house must not expect others to think well of them. Why then should you mind if men talk as you think they will? This stranger is strong and well-built, he says moreover that he is of noble birth. Give him the bow, and let us see whether he can string it or no. I say—and it shall surely be—that if Apollo vouchsafes him the glory of stringing it, I will give him a cloak and shirt of good wear, with a javelin to keep off dogs and robbers, and a sharp sword. I will also give him sandals, and will see him sent safely wherever he wants to go.’
“欧律马科斯，”佩内洛普回答道，“那些执意侵吞一位大酋长的财产、羞辱他的家族的人，不要指望别人会看好他们。那么你为什么要介意男人按照你认为的方式说话呢？这个陌生人身体强壮，体格健壮，而且他还说自己出身高贵。把弓给他，让我们看看他能不能上弦。我说——而且肯定是这样——如果阿波罗授予他穿线的荣耀，我会给他一件好穿的斗篷和衬衫，一支标枪，以防止狗和强盗，还有一把锋利的剑。我还会给他凉鞋，并会把他安全送到他想去的任何地方。

Then Telemachus said, ‘Mother, I am the only man either in Ithaca or in the islands that are over against Elis who has the right to let any one have the bow or to refuse it. No one shall force me one way or the other, not even though I choose to make the stranger a present of the bow outright, and let him take it away with him. Go, then, within the house and busy yourself with your daily duties, your loom, your distaff, and the ordering of your servants. This bow is a man’s matter, and mine above all others, for it is I who am master here.’
然后忒勒马科斯说道：“母亲，无论是在伊萨卡还是在伊利斯对面的岛屿上，我是唯一一个有权让任何人拥有或拒绝拥有弓的人。任何人都不得以某种方式强迫我，即使我选择直接将弓作为礼物送给陌生人，并让他带走。那么，到屋里去，忙于你的日常职责，你的织布机，你的纺纱机，以及你的仆人的命令。这把弓是男人的事，也是我的事，最重要的是，因为我才是这里的主人。

She went wondering back into the house, and laid her son’s saying in her heart. Then going upstairs with her handmaids into her room, she mourned her dear husband till Minerva sent sweet sleep over her eyelids.
她疑惑地回到屋里，把儿子的话记在心里。然后，她和女仆们一起上楼，走进自己的房间，哀悼她亲爱的丈夫，直到密涅瓦在她的眼睑上送上甜美的睡眠。

The swineherd now took up the bow and was for taking it to Ulysses, but the suitors clamoured at him from all parts of the cloisters, and one of them said, ‘You idiot, where are you taking the bow to? Are you out of your wits? If Apollo and the other gods will grant our prayer, your own boarhounds shall get you into some quiet little place, and worry you to death.’
猪倌拿起弓，准备把它带给尤利西斯，但求婚者从修道院的各个角落向他大声叫嚷，其中一个人说：“你这个白痴，你要把弓带到哪里去？”你疯了吗？如果阿波罗和其他诸神答应我们的祈祷，你们自己的猎猪犬就会把你们带到一个安静的小地方，让你们担心死。”

Eumaeus was frightened at the outcry they all raised, so he put the bow down then and there, but Telemachus shouted out at him from the other side of the cloisters, and threatened him saying, ‘Father Eumaeus, bring the bow on in spite of them, or young as I am I will pelt you with stones back to the country, for I am the better man of the two. I wish I was as much stronger than all the other suitors in the house as I am than you, I would soon send some of them off sick and sorry, for they mean mischief.’
欧迈欧斯被他们所有人的抗议吓坏了，所以他当场就把弓放下了，但特勒马科斯在回廊的另一边对他大喊大叫，并威胁他说：“欧迈欧斯神父，尽管如此，还是把弓带上吧。”他们，或者像我这样年轻，我会用石头扔你回乡下，因为我是两个人中更好的人。我希望我比家里所有其他求婚者都像你一样强大，我很快就会让他们中的一些人生病并抱歉，因为他们意味着恶作剧。

Thus did he speak, and they all of them laughed heartily, which put them in a better humour with Telemachus; so Eumaeus brought the bow on and placed it in the hands of Ulysses. When he had done this, he called Euryclea apart and said to her, ‘Euryclea, Telemachus says you are to close the doors of the women’s apartments. If they hear any groaning or uproar as of men fighting about the house, they are not to come out, but are to keep quiet and stay where they are at their work.’
他这么一说，大家都开怀大笑，这让他们对特勒马科斯的心情变得更好了。于是尤迈厄斯带上弓，把它交到尤利西斯的手里。当他做完这件事后，他把尤里克利叫开，对她说：“尤里克利，忒勒马科斯说你要关上妇女公寓的门。”如果他们听到人们为房子打架而发出的呻吟声或喧闹声，他们就不要出来，而要保持安静，留在原地干活。

Euryclea did as she was told and closed the doors of the women’s apartments.
尤丽克莉亚按照吩咐做了，关上了女子公寓的门。

Meanwhile Philoetius slipped quietly out and made fast the gates of the outer court. There was a ship’s cable of byblus fibre lying in the gatehouse, so he made the gates fast with it and then came in again, resuming the seat that he had left, and keeping an eye on Ulysses, who had now got the bow in his hands, and was turning it every way about, and proving it all over to see whether the worms had been eating into its two horns during his absence. Then would one turn towards his neighbour saying, ‘This is some tricky old bow-fancier; either he has got one like it at home, or he wants to make one, in such workmanlike style does the old vagabond handle it.’
与此同时，菲洛提乌斯悄悄溜了出去，把外院的大门锁紧。门楼里有一条船上的比布鲁斯光纤电缆，所以他用它把门锁紧，然后又进来，回到他离开的座位上，并留意着尤利西斯，他现在已经把船头拿到了他的船里。他双手合十地转动着它，检查一遍，看看在他不在的时候，虫子是否已经吃掉了它的两个角。然后，一个人会转向他的邻居说：“这是一位狡猾的老弓箭手；要么他家里有一个这样的东西，要么他想做一个，这个老流浪汉以如此熟练的方式处理它。

Another said, ‘I hope he may be no more successful in other things than he is likely to be in stringing this bow.’
另一个人说：“我希望他在其他事情上不会比拉弓更成功。”

But Ulysses, when he had taken it up and examined it all over, strung it as easily as a skilled bard strings a new peg of his lyre and makes the twisted gut fast at both ends. Then he took it in his right hand to prove the string, and it sang sweetly under his touch like the twittering of a swallow. The suitors were dismayed, and turned colour as they heard it; at that moment, moreover, Jove thundered loudly as a sign, and the heart of Ulysses rejoiced as he heard the omen that the son of scheming Saturn had sent him.
但尤利西斯把它拿起并仔细检查后，将它串起来，就像一个熟练的吟游诗人为他的竖琴弦轴上弦一样轻松，并将扭曲的肠线在两端固定住。然后他用右手接过它，试探琴弦，它在他的抚摸下发出甜美的歌声，就像燕子的鸣叫声一样。求婚者听了都惊愕不已，脸色铁青。而且，就在那一刻，朱庇特大声雷鸣作为征兆，尤利西斯听到诡计多端的萨图恩之子向他发出的预兆，心中欢喜不已。

He took an arrow that was lying upon the table {165}—for those which the Achaeans were so shortly about to taste were all inside the quiver—he laid it on the centre-piece of the bow, and drew the notch of the arrow and the string toward him, still seated on his seat. When he had taken aim he let fly, and his arrow pierced every one of the handle-holes of the axes from the first onwards till it had gone right through them, and into the outer courtyard. Then he said to Telemachus:
他拿起桌子上的一支箭{165}——因为亚该亚人很快就要尝到的箭都在箭袋里——他把它放在弓的中心部分，并在箭上画了一个缺口。绳子指向他，他仍然坐在座位上。当他瞄准后，他就放箭，他的箭从第一个开始就贯穿了斧头的每一个柄孔，直到它直接穿过它们，射入外院。然后他对忒勒马科斯说：

‘Your guest has not disgraced you, Telemachus. I did not miss what I aimed at, and I was not long in stringing my bow. I am still strong, and not as the suitors twit me with being. Now, however, it is time for the Achaeans to prepare supper while there is still daylight, and then otherwise to disport themselves with song and dance which are the crowning ornaments of a banquet.’
“你的客人并没有羞辱你，忒勒马科斯。我没有失手，很快就上弦了。我仍然很坚强，而不是像追求者那样嘲笑我。然而，现在是亚该亚人在天还亮的时候准备晚餐的时候了，然后就用歌舞来娱乐自己，这是宴会的最高装饰。

As he spoke he made a sign with his eyebrows, and Telemachus girded on his sword, grasped his spear, and stood armed beside his father’s seat.
当他说话时，他用眉毛做了个手势，忒勒马科斯束上剑，握住长矛，全副武装地站在他父亲的座位旁边。

BOOK XXII
第二十二册

THE KILLING OF THE SUITORS—THE MAIDS WHO HAVE MISCONDUCTED THEMSELVES ARE MADE TO CLEANSE THE CLOISTERS AND ARE THEN HANGED.
杀害求婚者——行为不端的女仆被强迫去清理修道院，然后被绞死。

Then Ulysses tore off his rags, and sprang on to the broad pavement with his bow and his quiver full of arrows. He shed the arrows on to the ground at his feet and said, ‘The mighty contest is at an end. I will now see whether Apollo will vouchsafe it to me to hit another mark which no man has yet hit.’
然后尤利西斯扯下破烂的衣服，带着弓和装满箭的箭袋跳到宽阔的人行道上。他把箭扔在脚下，说道：“这场激烈的较量结束了。”现在我要看看阿波罗是否会允许我达到另一个尚未有人达到的目标。

On this he aimed a deadly arrow at Antinous, who was about to take up a two-handled gold cup to drink his wine and already had it in his hands. He had no thought of death—who amongst all the revellers would think that one man, however brave, would stand alone among so many and kill him? The arrow struck Antinous in the throat, and the point went clean through his neck, so that he fell over and the cup dropped from his hand, while a thick stream of blood gushed from his nostrils. He kicked the table from him and upset the things on it, so that the bread and roasted meats were all soiled as they fell over on to the ground. {166} The suitors were in an uproar when they saw that a man had been hit; they sprang in dismay one and all of them from their seats and looked everywhere towards the walls, but there was neither shield nor spear, and they rebuked Ulysses very angrily. ‘Stranger,’ said they, ‘you shall pay for shooting people in this way: you shall see no other contest; you are a doomed man; he whom you have slain was the foremost youth in Ithaca, and the vultures shall devour you for having killed him.’
就此，他向安提诺乌斯射出了致命的箭，安提诺乌斯正要拿起双柄金杯喝酒，却已经到了手里。他没有想到死亡——在所有的狂欢者中，谁会想到一个人，无论多么勇敢，会独自一人站在这么多人中间杀死他？箭射中了安提诺乌斯的咽喉，箭尖直接穿过了他的脖子，他摔倒在地，手中的杯子掉了下来，一股浓浓的血从他的鼻孔中涌出。他一脚踢开了桌子，把上面的东西打翻了，面包和烤肉都沾满了脏东西，摔在了地上。 {166} 当求婚者看到一名男子被击中时，他们一片哗然；他们一个个惊慌失措地从座位上跳起来，向四周的墙壁望去，但没有盾牌和长矛，他们非常愤怒地斥责尤利西斯。 “陌生人，”他们说，“你会因为这样射杀人而付出代价：你不会看到其他比赛；你是一个注定要失败的人；你杀死的人是伊萨卡最重要的年轻人，秃鹫会因为你杀了他而吃掉你。

Thus they spoke, for they thought that he had killed Antinous by mistake, and did not perceive that death was hanging over the head of every one of them. But Ulysses glared at them and said:
他们这样说，是因为他们以为他误杀了安提诺乌斯，却没有意识到死亡已经悬在他们每个人的头上。但尤利西斯瞪了他们一眼，说道：

‘Dogs, did you think that I should not come back from Troy? You have wasted my substance, {167} have forced my women servants to lie with you, and have wooed my wife while I was still living. You have feared neither God nor man, and now you shall die.’
‘狗们，你们认为我不应该从特洛伊​​回来吗？你浪费了我的财产，{167}强迫我的女仆与你同寝，并在我还活着的时候向我的妻子求婚。你既不敬畏上帝，也不敬畏人，现在你就该死了。”

They turned pale with fear as he spoke, and every man looked round about to see whither he might fly for safety, but Eurymachus alone spoke.
当他说话时，他们吓得脸色苍白，每个人都环顾四周，看看他可以逃到哪里避难，但只有欧律马科斯一人说话了。

‘If you are Ulysses,’ said he, ‘then what you have said is just. We have done much wrong on your lands and in your house. But Antinous who was the head and front of the offending lies low already. It was all his doing. It was not that he wanted to marry Penelope; he did not so much care about that; what he wanted was something quite different, and Jove has not vouchsafed it to him; he wanted to kill your son and to be chief man in Ithaca. Now, therefore, that he has met the death which was his due, spare the lives of your people. We will make everything good among ourselves, and pay you in full for all that we have eaten and drunk. Each one of us shall pay you a fine worth twenty oxen, and we will keep on giving you gold and bronze till your heart is softened. Until we have done this no one can complain of your being enraged against us.’
“如果你是尤利西斯，”他说，“那么你所说的就是正义的。”我们在你们的土地和房屋里做了很多错事。但作为罪魁祸首的安提诺乌斯已经低调了。这一切都是他干的。并不是说他想娶佩内洛普；而是他想娶佩内洛普。他不太关心这个；他想要的是完全不同的东西，而朱庇特并没有将其赐予他。他想杀死你的儿子并成为伊萨卡岛的酋长。因此，既然他已经死了，请饶恕你们人民的生命。我们会善待你们，并把我们吃的喝的一切都付给你们。我们每人将付给你二十头牛的罚金，我们将继续给你金子和铜牌，直到你的心软化为止。在我们做到这一点之前，没有人可以抱怨你对我们感到愤怒。

Ulysses again glared at him and said, ‘Though you should give me all that you have in the world both now and all that you ever shall have, I will not stay my hand till I have paid all of you in full. You must fight, or fly for your lives; and fly, not a man of you shall.’
尤利西斯再次瞪了他一眼，说道：“尽管你应该把你现在和将来拥有的一切都给我，但我不会停下来，直到我把你们所有人都付清为止。”你必须战斗，或者逃命；并飞翔，你们中没有一个人会飞。

Their hearts sank as they heard him, but Eurymachus again spoke saying:
听到他的话，他们的心沉了下去，但欧律马科斯再次开口说道：

‘My friends, this man will give us no quarter. He will stand where he is and shoot us down till he has killed every man among us. Let us then show fight; draw your swords, and hold up the tables to shield you from his arrows. Let us have at him with a rush, to drive him from the pavement and doorway: we can then get through into the town, and raise such an alarm as shall soon stay his shooting.’
“我的朋友们，这个人不会饶恕我们。他会站在原地射杀我们，直到杀死我们中的每一个人。那么我们就来展示一下战斗吧；拔出你的剑，并举起桌子来保护你免受他的箭射。让我们冲向他，把他从人行道和门口赶走：然后我们就可以进入城镇，发出警报，很快就会停止他的射击。

As he spoke he drew his keen blade of bronze, sharpened on both sides, and with a loud cry sprang towards Ulysses, but Ulysses instantly shot an arrow into his breast that caught him by the nipple and fixed itself in his liver. He dropped his sword and fell doubled up over his table. The cup and all the meats went over on to the ground as he smote the earth with his forehead in the agonies of death, and he kicked the stool with his feet until his eyes were closed in darkness.
当他说话时，他拔出了两面都锋利的青铜利刃，大声喊叫着向尤利西斯扑去，但尤利西斯立即将一支箭射入他的胸口，射中了他的乳头，并固定在他的肝脏中。他丢下剑，倒在桌子上。杯子和所有的肉都掉到了地上，他在死亡的痛苦中用额头撞击地面，用脚踢着凳子，直到他的眼睛在黑暗中闭上。

Then Amphinomus drew his sword and made straight at Ulysses to try and get him away from the door; but Telemachus was too quick for him, and struck him from behind; the spear caught him between the shoulders and went right through his chest, so that he fell heavily to the ground and struck the earth with his forehead. Then Telemachus sprang away from him, leaving his spear still in the body, for he feared that if he stayed to draw it out, some one of the Achaeans might come up and hack at him with his sword, or knock him down, so he set off at a run, and immediately was at his father’s side. Then he said:
然后安菲诺莫斯拔出剑，径直冲向尤利西斯，试图把他从门口拉开。但特勒马科斯速度太快，从后面袭击了他。长矛夹在他的肩膀之间，直穿胸口，他重重地摔倒在地，额头撞在了地上。然后特勒马科斯从他身边跳开，把矛留在体内，因为他担心如果他留下来拔出它，某个亚该亚人可能会过来用剑砍他，或者把他击倒，所以他他拔腿就跑，立刻就到了父亲身边。然后他说：

‘Father, let me bring you a shield, two spears, and a brass helmet for your temples. I will arm myself as well, and will bring other armour for the swineherd and the stockman, for we had better be armed.’
“父亲，让我给你带来一面盾牌、两支长矛和一顶用于太阳穴的铜头盔。我也会武装自己，并为猪倌和畜牧人带来其他盔甲，因为我们最好武装起来。

‘Run and fetch them,’ answered Ulysses, ‘while my arrows hold out, or when I am alone they may get me away from the door.’
“跑去把它们拿来，”尤利西斯回答道，“趁着我的箭还没有射出，或者当我独自一人的时候，它们可能会把我带离门口。”

Telemachus did as his father said, and went off to the store room where the armour was kept. He chose four shields, eight spears, and four brass helmets with horse-hair plumes. He brought them with all speed to his father, and armed himself first, while the stockman and the swineherd also put on their armour, and took their places near Ulysses. Meanwhile Ulysses, as long as his arrows lasted, had been shooting the suitors one by one, and they fell thick on one another: when his arrows gave out, he set the bow to stand against the end wall of the house by the door post, and hung a shield four hides thick about his shoulders; on his comely head he set his helmet, well wrought with a crest of horse-hair that nodded menacingly above it, {168} and he grasped two redoubtable bronze-shod spears.
忒勒马科斯按照父亲的话去做，然后前往存放盔甲的储藏室。他选择了四把盾牌、八把长矛和四顶带有马毛羽毛的黄铜头盔。他以最快的速度把它们带到了他的父亲那里，并首先武装自己，牲口夫和猪倌也穿上了盔甲，在尤利西斯附近就位。与此同时，尤利西斯在他的箭还没有射完的时候，一直在将求婚者一一射击，他们彼此密集地倒下：当他的箭射完后，他把弓靠在门柱旁的房子的最后墙上。 ，并在肩上挂了一面四皮厚的盾牌；他把头盔戴在他英俊的头上，头盔上有一顶精心制作的马鬃，在头盔上方威胁性地点头，{168}他抓住了两根令人敬畏的铜钉长矛。

Now there was a trap door {169} on the wall, while at one end of the pavement {170} there was an exit leading to a narrow passage, and this exit was closed by a well-made door. Ulysses told Philoetius to stand by this door and guard it, for only one person could attack it at a time. But Agelaus shouted out, ‘Cannot some one go up to the trap door and tell the people what is going on? Help would come at once, and we should soon make an end of this man and his shooting.’
现在墙上有一扇活板门{169}，而人行道的一端{170}有一个出口通向一条狭窄的通道，这个出口被一扇做工精良的门封闭着。尤利西斯告诉菲洛提乌斯站在这扇门边看守它，因为一次只有一个人可以攻击它。但阿格劳斯大声喊道：“难道不能有人到活板门上去告诉人们发生了什么事吗？”援助会立即到来，我们应该很快结束这个人和他的枪击事件。”

‘This may not be, Agelaus,’ answered Melanthius, ‘the mouth of the narrow passage is dangerously near the entrance to the outer court. One brave man could prevent any number from getting in. But I know what I will do, I will bring you arms from the store-room, for I am sure it is there that Ulysses and his son have put them.’
“这可能不是，阿格劳斯，”梅兰修斯回答，“狭窄通道的入口靠近外院入口，很危险。一个勇敢的人可以阻止任何人进入。但我知道我会做什么，我会从储藏室给你带武器，因为我确信尤利西斯和他的儿子已经把它们放在那里了。

On this the goatherd Melanthius went by back passages to the store-room of Ulysses’ house. There he chose twelve shields, with as many helmets and spears, and brought them back as fast as he could to give them to the suitors. Ulysses’ heart began to fail him when he saw the suitors {171} putting on their armour and brandishing their spears. He saw the greatness of the danger, and said to Telemachus, ‘Some one of the women inside is helping the suitors against us, or it may be Melanthius.’
于是，牧羊人梅兰修斯沿着后面的通道来到了尤利西斯家的储藏室。在那里，他选择了十二面盾牌，以及尽可能多的头盔和长矛，并以最快的速度将它们带回来，交给求婚者。当尤利西斯看到求婚者{171}穿上盔甲并挥舞着长矛时，他的心开始衰竭。他看到了危险的严重性，并对忒勒马科斯说：“里面有一个女人正在帮助求婚者反对我们，或者可能是梅兰修斯。”

Telemachus answered, ‘The fault, father, is mine, and mine only; I left the store room door open, and they have kept a sharper look out than I have. Go, Eumaeus, put the door to, and see whether it is one of the women who is doing this, or whether, as I suspect, it is Melanthius the son of Dolius.’
忒勒马科斯回答说：“父亲，这个过错是我的，而且只是我的；我把储藏室的门开着，他们的目光比我更敏锐。去吧，欧迈厄斯，把门关上，看看是不是其中一个女人在干这件事，或者，正如我怀疑的那样，是多利乌斯的儿子梅兰修斯。

Thus did they converse. Meanwhile Melanthius was again going to the store room to fetch more armour, but the swineherd saw him and said to Ulysses who was beside him, ‘Ulysses, noble son of Laertes, it is that scoundrel Melanthius, just as we suspected, who is going to the store room. Say, shall I kill him, if I can get the better of him, or shall I bring him here that you may take your own revenge for all the many wrongs that he has done in your house?’
他们就这样交谈。与此同时，梅兰修斯又要去储藏室取更多的盔甲，但猪倌看到了他，对旁边的尤利西斯说道：“尤利西斯，莱尔提斯的高贵儿子，正是那个恶棍梅兰修斯，正如我们所怀疑的那样，他要走了。”到储藏室。你说，如果我能打败他，我是应该杀了他，还是把他带到这里来，让你为他在你家里所做的许多错误报仇？

Ulysses answered, ‘Telemachus and I will hold these suitors in check, no matter what they do; go back both of you and bind Melanthius’ hands and feet behind him. Throw him into the store room and make the door fast behind you; then fasten a noose about his body, and string him close up to the rafters from a high bearing-post, {172} that he may linger on in an agony.’
尤利西斯回答说：“忒勒马科斯和我将阻止这些追求者，无论他们做什么；你们俩回去吧，把梅兰修斯的手脚绑在身后。将他扔进储藏室，并在身后关上门；然后在他身上套上绞索，将他从高高的柱子上紧贴在房梁上，{172}这样他就可以在痛苦中徘徊。

Thus did he speak, and they did even as he had said; they went to the store room, which they entered before Melanthius saw them, for he was busy searching for arms in the innermost part of the room, so the two took their stand on either side of the door and waited. By and by Melanthius came out with a helmet in one hand, and an old dry-rotted shield in the other, which had been borne by Laertes when he was young, but which had been long since thrown aside, and the straps had become unsewn; on this the two seized him, dragged him back by the hair, and threw him struggling to the ground. They bent his hands and feet well behind his back, and bound them tight with a painful bond as Ulysses had told them; then they fastened a noose about his body and strung him up from a high pillar till he was close up to the rafters, and over him did you then vaunt, O swineherd Eumaeus saying, ‘Melanthius, you will pass the night on a soft bed as you deserve. You will know very well when morning comes from the streams of Oceanus, and it is time for you to be driving in your goats for the suitors to feast on.’
他这样说，他们就照他所说的做了。他们去了储藏室，在梅兰修斯看到他们之前就进入了储藏室，因为他正忙着在房间的最里面寻找武器，所以两人站在门的两侧等待。不久，梅兰修斯一手拿着头盔，另一只手拿着已经干腐的旧盾牌，这盾牌是雷欧提斯年轻时带着的，但早已被扔到一边，带子也已拆开。 ;这时，两人抓住了他，揪着他的头发把他拖了回来，把他摔倒在地上。他们把他的手脚深深地弯到背后，并按照尤利西斯告诉他们的那样，用一种痛苦的束缚将它们紧紧地绑住。然后他们在他的身上套上一个绞索，把他从一根高柱上吊起来，直到他靠近房椽，然后你在他身上吹嘘，哦，猪倌尤迈乌斯，说：“梅兰修斯，你将在柔软的床上过夜这是你应得的。你会很清楚地知道，当早晨从俄刻阿诺斯的溪流中升起时，你就该赶着你的山羊，让追求者们大饱口福了。

There, then, they left him in very cruel bondage, and having put on their armour they closed the door behind them and went back to take their places by the side of Ulysses; whereon the four men stood in the cloister, fierce and full of fury; nevertheless, those who were in the body of the court were still both brave and many. Then Jove’s daughter Minerva came up to them, having assumed the voice and form of Mentor. Ulysses was glad when he saw her and said, ‘Mentor, lend me your help, and forget not your old comrade, nor the many good turns he has done you. Besides, you are my age-mate.’
然后，他们把他留在了非常残酷的束缚中，穿上盔甲，关上身后的门，回到尤利西斯身边。这四个人站在回廊里，凶猛而充满愤怒。尽管如此，朝廷中的人仍然勇敢且人数众多。然后朱庇特的女儿密涅瓦向他们走来，化身为导师的声音和形态。尤利西斯见到她很高兴，说道：“导师，请帮助我，不要忘记你的老战友，也不要忘记他为你做的许多好事。”再说了，你是我的同龄人。”

But all the time he felt sure it was Minerva, and the suitors from the other side raised an uproar when they saw her. Agelaus was the first to reproach her. ‘Mentor,’ he cried, ‘do not let Ulysses beguile you into siding with him and fighting the suitors. This is what we will do: when we have killed these people, father and son, we will kill you too. You shall pay for it with your head, and when we have killed you, we will take all you have, in doors or out, and bring it into hotch-pot with Ulysses’ property; we will not let your sons live in your house, nor your daughters, nor shall your widow continue to live in the city of Ithaca.’
但他始终确信那是米勒娃，而对方的追求者一看到她，就发出了一阵骚动。阿格劳斯是第一个责备她的人。 “导师，”他喊道，“不要让尤利西斯欺骗你，让你站在他一边，与求婚者作斗争。这就是我们要做的：当我们杀了这些人，父子，我们也会杀了你们。你将用你的头来偿还，当我们杀了你时，我们将把你所有的东西，无论是室内还是室外，都拿走，并把它和尤利西斯的财产一起放进大锅里；我们不会让你的儿子住在你家里，你的女儿，你的遗孀也不会继续住在伊萨卡城。

This made Minerva still more furious, so she scolded Ulysses very angrily. {173} ‘Ulysses,’ said she, ‘your strength and prowess are no longer what they were when you fought for nine long years among the Trojans about the noble lady Helen. You killed many a man in those days, and it was through your stratagem that Priam’s city was taken. How comes it that you are so lamentably less valiant now that you are on your own ground, face to face with the suitors in your own house? Come on, my good fellow, stand by my side and see how Mentor, son of Alcimus shall fight your foes and requite your kindnesses conferred upon him.’
这让密涅瓦更加愤怒，她非常愤怒地斥责了尤利西斯。 173 ‘尤利西斯，’她说，‘你的力量和英勇不再是你在特洛伊人中为高贵的海伦夫人而战九年之久的时候了。那时你杀了很多人，正是通过你的计谋，普里阿摩斯的城市被攻克了。现在你在自己的地盘上，面对自己家里的追求者，你怎么就这么不勇敢呢？来吧，我的好朋友，站在我身边，看看阿尔西穆斯之子导师将如何与你的敌人作战，并回报你给予他的仁慈。

But she would not give him full victory as yet, for she wished still further to prove his own prowess and that of his brave son, so she flew up to one of the rafters in the roof of the cloister and sat upon it in the form of a swallow.
但她还不打算给他完全的胜利，因为她还想进一步证明他自己和他勇敢的儿子的英勇，所以她飞到修道院屋顶的一根椽子上，以形式坐在上面。一只燕子的。

Meanwhile Agelaus son of Damastor, Eurynomus, Amphimedon, Demoptolemus, Pisander, and Polybus son of Polyctor bore the brunt of the fight upon the suitors’ side; of all those who were still fighting for their lives they were by far the most valiant, for the others had already fallen under the arrows of Ulysses. Agelaus shouted to them and said, ‘My friends, he will soon have to leave off, for Mentor has gone away after having done nothing for him but brag. They are standing at the doors unsupported. Do not aim at him all at once, but six of you throw your spears first, and see if you cannot cover yourselves with glory by killing him. When he has fallen we need not be uneasy about the others.’
与此同时，达马斯托尔之子阿格劳斯、欧律诺摩斯、安菲墨冬、德谟普托勒摩斯、皮桑德和波利托托之子波吕波斯在求婚者一方首当其冲。在所有仍在为生命而战的人中，他们是迄今为止最勇敢的，因为其他人都已经倒在尤利西斯的箭下。阿格劳斯对他们喊道：“我的朋友们，他很快就要离开了，因为导师除了吹牛之外没有为他做任何事，他已经离开了。”他们站在门口，没有任何支撑。不要一下子瞄准他，你们六人先投枪，看杀了他能不能光彩照人。当他倒下时，我们不必为其他人感到不安。

They threw their spears as he bade them, but Minerva made them all of no effect. One hit the door post; another went against the door; the pointed shaft of another struck the wall; and as soon as they had avoided all the spears of the suitors Ulysses said to his own men, ‘My friends, I should say we too had better let drive into the middle of them, or they will crown all the harm they have done us by killing us outright.’
他们按照他的命令投出了长矛，但米勒娃却让他们毫无效果。其中一只撞到了门柱；另一个则抵在门上。另一个的尖轴击中了墙壁；一旦他们避开了求婚者的所有长矛，尤利西斯就对自己的部下说道：“我的朋友们，我想说，我们也最好让车驶入他们中间，否则他们将给我们造成的所有伤害加冕。”彻底杀死我们。

They therefore aimed straight in front of them and threw their spears. Ulysses killed Demoptolemus, Telemachus Euryades, Eumaeus Elatus, while the stockman killed Pisander. These all bit the dust, and as the others drew back into a corner Ulysses and his men rushed forward and regained their spears by drawing them from the bodies of the dead.
因此，他们瞄准前方，投掷长矛。尤利西斯杀死了德谟普托勒摩斯、忒勒马科斯·欧里亚德斯、尤迈乌斯·埃拉图斯，而饲养员则杀死了皮桑德。这些都归于尘埃，当其他人退到角落时，尤利西斯和他的部下冲上前去，从死者的尸体上拔出长矛，重新夺回了长矛。

The suitors now aimed a second time, but again Minerva made their weapons for the most part without effect. One hit a bearing-post of the cloister; another went against the door; while the pointed shaft of another struck the wall. Still, Amphimedon just took a piece of the top skin from off Telemachus’s wrist, and Ctesippus managed to graze Eumaeus’s shoulder above his shield; but the spear went on and fell to the ground. Then Ulysses and his men let drive into the crowd of suitors. Ulysses hit Eurydamas, Telemachus Amphimedon, and Eumaeus Polybus. After this the stockman hit Ctesippus in the breast, and taunted him saying, ‘Foul-mouthed son of Polytherses, do not be so foolish as to talk wickedly another time, but let heaven direct your speech, for the gods are far stronger than men. I make you a present of this advice to repay you for the foot which you gave Ulysses when he was begging about in his own house.’
追求者们现在第二次瞄准，但密涅瓦再次制造了他们的武器，大部分都没有效果。其中一枚击中了回廊的一根轴承柱；另一个则抵在门上。与此同时，另一根尖锐的轴击中了墙壁。尽管如此，安菲米冬还是从特勒马科斯的手腕上取下了一块表层皮肤，而克特西波斯则设法擦伤了尤迈乌斯盾牌上方的肩膀；但矛继续前进并掉落在地上。然后尤利西斯和他的手下开车冲进了追求者的人群。尤利西斯击中了欧律达玛斯、忒勒马科斯·安菲墨冬和尤迈乌斯·波吕波斯。随后，牧羊人打了克特西普斯的胸口，嘲笑他说：“波吕忒西斯的臭嘴儿子，下次别再傻到说脏话了，让上天指导你的言论吧，因为众神比人类强大得多。” 。我把这个忠告送给你，是为了报答尤利西斯在自己家里乞讨时你给他的那只脚。

Thus spoke the stockman, and Ulysses struck the son of Damastor with a spear in close fight, while Telemachus hit Leocritus son of Evenor in the belly, and the dart went clean through him, so that he fell forward full on his face upon the ground. Then Minerva from her seat on the rafter held up her deadly aegis, and the hearts of the suitors quailed. They fled to the other end of the court like a herd of cattle maddened by the gadfly in early summer when the days are at their longest. As eagle-beaked, crook-taloned vultures from the mountains swoop down on the smaller birds that cower in flocks upon the ground, and kill them, for they cannot either fight or fly, and lookers on enjoy the sport—even so did Ulysses and his men fall upon the suitors and smite them on every side. They made a horrible groaning as their brains were being battered in, and the ground seethed with their blood.
牧场主如此说道，尤利西斯在近战中用长矛击中了达马斯托尔的儿子，而忒勒马科斯则击中了埃文诺之子利奥克里特的腹部，飞镖直接穿过了他，结果他面朝前倒在了地上。 。然后密涅瓦从她坐在椽子上的座位上举起了她致命的盾牌，求婚者们的心都颤抖了。他们就像初夏白昼最长的时候被牛虻抓狂的牛群一样逃到了球场的另一端。当来自山上的鹰嘴弯爪秃鹫俯冲下来，扑向地面上成群结队的小鸟时，将它们杀死，因为它们既不会战斗，也不会飞翔，而旁观者则享受这项运动——《尤利西斯》和《尤利西斯》也是如此。他的部下向求婚者发起攻击，从四面八方攻击他们。他们发出可怕的呻吟声，脑浆被撕裂，大地因鲜血而沸腾。

Leiodes then caught the knees of Ulysses and said, ‘Ulysses I beseech you have mercy upon me and spare me. I never wronged any of the women in your house either in word or deed, and I tried to stop the others. I saw them, but they would not listen, and now they are paying for their folly. I was their sacrificing priest; if you kill me, I shall die without having done anything to deserve it, and shall have got no thanks for all the good that I did.’
莱奥得斯抱住尤利西斯的膝盖说道：“尤利西斯，我恳求你怜悯我，饶恕我。”我从来没有在言语或行为上冤枉过你们家里的任何一个女人，并且我试图阻止其他人。我看到了他们，但他们不听，现在他们正在为自己的愚蠢付出代价。我是他们的祭祀祭司；如果你杀了我，我就会死而没有做任何值得的事情，而且我所做的一切善事也不会得到任何感谢。”

Ulysses looked sternly at him and answered, ‘If you were their sacrificing priest, you must have prayed many a time that it might be long before I got home again, and that you might marry my wife and have children by her. Therefore you shall die.’
尤利西斯严肃地看着他，回答道：“如果你是他们的祭祀祭司，你一定多次祈祷我能早点回家，祈祷你能娶我的妻子，为她生孩子。”因此你会死。

With these words he picked up the sword that Agelaus had dropped when he was being killed, and which was lying upon the ground. Then he struck Leiodes on the back of his neck, so that his head fell rolling in the dust while he was yet speaking.
说着，他捡起了阿格劳斯被杀时掉落在地上的剑。然后他击中了莱奥德斯的后颈，结果他的头在他说话的时候就倒在了灰尘里。

The minstrel Phemius son of Terpes—he who had been forced by the suitors to sing to them—now tried to save his life. He was standing near towards the trap door, {174} and held his lyre in his hand. He did not know whether to fly out of the cloister and sit down by the altar of Jove that was in the outer court, and on which both Laertes and Ulysses had offered up the thigh bones of many an ox, or whether to go straight up to Ulysses and embrace his knees, but in the end he deemed it best to embrace Ulysses’ knees. So he laid his lyre on the ground between the mixing bowl {175} and the silver-studded seat; then going up to Ulysses he caught hold of his knees and said, ‘Ulysses, I beseech you have mercy on me and spare me. You will be sorry for it afterwards if you kill a bard who can sing both for gods and men as I can. I make all my lays myself, and heaven visits me with every kind of inspiration. I would sing to you as though you were a god, do not therefore be in such a hurry to cut my head off. Your own son Telemachus will tell you that I did not want to frequent your house and sing to the suitors after their meals, but they were too many and too strong for me, so they made me.’
特佩斯的儿子、吟游诗人菲米乌斯——他曾被求婚者强迫唱歌给他们听——现在试图拯救他的生命。他站在活板门附近，{174}，手里拿着竖琴。他不知道是该飞出修道院，坐在外院的朱庇特祭坛前，雷阿提斯和尤利西斯都在祭坛上献上了许多牛的大腿骨，还是径直向上走。并拥抱尤利西斯的膝盖，但最终他认为拥抱尤利西斯的膝盖最好。于是他把他的竖琴放在搅拌碗{175}和镶银的座位之间的地上；然后他走到尤利西斯面前，抓住他的膝盖，说道：“尤利西斯，我恳求你怜悯我，饶恕我。”如果你杀了一个像我一样既能歌颂神又能歌颂人的吟游诗人，事后你会后悔的。我自己做所有的事情，天堂会带着各种灵感来拜访我。我会为你歌唱，就好像你是神一样，所以不要急着砍下我的头。你自己的儿子忒勒马科斯会告诉你，我不想经常去你家，也不想在饭后给求婚者唱歌，但他们对我来说太多太强壮了，所以他们创造了我。

Telemachus heard him, and at once went up to his father. ‘Hold!’ he cried, ‘the man is guiltless, do him no hurt; and we will spare Medon too, who was always good to me when I was a boy, unless Philoetius or Eumaeus has already killed him, or he has fallen in your way when you were raging about the court.’
忒勒马科斯听到了他的话，立即走到他父亲身边。 “站住！”他喊道，“这个人是无罪的，不要伤害他；我们也会饶恕梅东，当我还是个孩子的时候，他一直对我很好，除非菲洛提乌斯或欧迈乌斯已经杀了他，或者当你在法庭上发怒时，他已经挡住了你的路。

Medon caught these words of Telemachus, for he was crouching under a seat beneath which he had hidden by covering himself up with a freshly flayed heifer’s hide, so he threw off the hide, went up to Telemachus, and laid hold of his knees.
梅东听到了特勒马科斯的话，因为他蹲在一个座位下，他用一张刚剥过的小母牛的皮遮住了自己，把自己藏在了座位下，于是他扔掉了牛皮，走到特勒马科斯面前，抓住了他的膝盖。

‘Here I am, my dear sir,’ said he, ‘stay your hand therefore, and tell your father, or he will kill me in his rage against the suitors for having wasted his substance and been so foolishly disrespectful to yourself.’
“我在这儿，亲爱的先生，”他说，“所以请停下来，告诉你的父亲，否则他会因为那些追求者浪费了他的财产并且对你自己如此愚蠢地不尊重而在愤怒中杀了我。”

Ulysses smiled at him and answered, ‘Fear not; Telemachus has saved your life, that you may know in future, and tell other people, how greatly better good deeds prosper than evil ones. Go, therefore, outside the cloisters into the outer court, and be out of the way of the slaughter—you and the bard—while I finish my work here inside.’
尤利西斯对他微笑着回答说：“别害怕；忒勒马科斯救了你的命，让你将来知道，并告诉其他人，善行比恶行要多得多。因此，到修道院外面去，进入外院，远离屠杀——你和吟游诗人——而我在里面完成我的工作。

The pair went into the outer court as fast as they could, and sat down by Jove’s great altar, looking fearfully round, and still expecting that they would be killed. Then Ulysses searched the whole court carefully over, to see if anyone had managed to hide himself and was still living, but he found them all lying in the dust and weltering in their blood. They were like fishes which fishermen have netted out of the sea, and thrown upon the beach to lie gasping for water till the heat of the sun makes an end of them. Even so were the suitors lying all huddled up one against the other.
两人以最快的速度走进外院，在朱庇特的大祭坛旁坐下，恐惧地环顾四周，仍然担心自己会被杀。然后尤利西斯仔细地搜查了整个法庭，看看是否有人设法隐藏自己并还活着，但他发现他们都躺在灰尘中，浑身是血。它们就像渔夫从海里捞上来的鱼，扔到海滩上，躺在沙滩上喘着气，直到太阳的热力把它们消灭为止。即便如此，求婚者们还是挤在一起躺着。

Then Ulysses said to Telemachus, ‘Call nurse Euryclea; I have something to say to her.’
然后尤利西斯对忒勒马科斯说：“叫护士尤里克利来；我有话要对她说。

Telemachus went and knocked at the door of the women’s room. ‘Make haste,’ said he, ‘you old woman who have been set over all the other women in the house. Come outside; my father wishes to speak to you.’
忒勒马科斯去敲女厕所的门。 “快点，”他说，“你这个老太婆，她已经被安排在家里所有其他女人的头上了。到外面来；我父亲想和你说话。

When Euryclea heard this she unfastened the door of the women’s room and came out, following Telemachus. She found Ulysses among the corpses bespattered with blood and filth like a lion that has just been devouring an ox, and his breast and both his cheeks are all bloody, so that he is a fearful sight; even so was Ulysses besmirched from head to foot with gore. When she saw all the corpses and such a quantity of blood, she was beginning to cry out for joy, for she saw that a great deed had been done; but Ulysses checked her, ‘Old woman,’ said he, ‘rejoice in silence; restrain yourself, and do not make any noise about it; it is an unholy thing to vaunt over dead men. Heaven’s doom and their own evil deeds have brought these men to destruction, for they respected no man in the whole world, neither rich nor poor, who came near them, and they have come to a bad end as a punishment for their wickedness and folly. Now, however, tell me which of the women in the house have misconducted themselves, and who are innocent.’ {176}
欧律克利听到这话，打开女厕所的门，跟着忒勒马科斯走了出来。她在尸体中发现了尤利西斯，浑身是血，污秽不堪，就像一头刚刚吞掉牛的狮子，他的胸口和双颊都沾满了血，显得十分可怕；即便如此，《尤利西斯》从头到脚都沾满了血迹。当她看到所有的尸体和如此多的血迹时，她开始欢呼起来，因为她看到了一件伟大的事情完成了；但尤利西斯阻止了她，“老妇人，”他说，“保持沉默吧；”克制自己，不要大声喧哗；对死人吹嘘是一件不神圣的事情。上天的厄运和他们自己的恶行使这些人走向灭亡，因为他们不尊重全世界任何人，无论贫富，接近他们的人，他们都落到了不好的下场，作为对他们的邪恶和愚蠢的惩罚。 。不过，现在请告诉我，家里哪些女人行为不当，哪些是无辜的。”{176}

‘I will tell you the truth, my son,’ answered Euryclea. ‘There are fifty women in the house whom we teach to do things, such as carding wool, and all kinds of household work. Of these, twelve in all {177} have misbehaved, and have been wanting in respect to me, and also to Penelope. They showed no disrespect to Telemachus, for he has only lately grown and his mother never permitted him to give orders to the female servants; but let me go upstairs and tell your wife all that has happened, for some god has been sending her to sleep.’
“我会告诉你真相，我的孩子，”尤里克利回答道。 “家里有五十名妇女，我们教她们做一些事情，例如梳理羊毛和各种家务劳动。其中，总共有十二人{177} 行为不端，对我和佩内洛普都缺乏尊重。他们对特勒马科斯并没有表现出任何不敬，因为他才刚刚长大，他的母亲从来不允许他对女仆发号施令。但让我上楼去告诉你的妻子发生了什么事，因为某个神已经让她入睡了。”

‘Do not wake her yet,’ answered Ulysses, ‘but tell the women who have misconducted themselves to come to me.’
“先别叫醒她，”尤利西斯回答道，“但要告诉那些行为不端的女人来找我。”

Euryclea left the cloister to tell the women, and make them come to Ulysses; in the meantime he called Telemachus, the stockman, and the swineherd. ‘Begin,’ said he, ‘to remove the dead, and make the women help you. Then, get sponges and clean water to swill down the tables and seats. When you have thoroughly cleansed the whole cloisters, take the women into the space between the domed room and the wall of the outer court, and run them through with your swords till they are quite dead, and have forgotten all about love and the way in which they used to lie in secret with the suitors.’
欧律克莉亚离开修道院去通知女人们，并让她们来见尤利西斯。与此同时，他打电话给忒勒马科斯、畜牧人和猪倌。 “开始吧，”他说，“把死者移走，让妇女们来帮助你。”然后，用海绵和干净的水冲洗桌子和座位。当你彻底清理了整个回廊后，把女人们带到圆顶房间和外院墙之间的空间里，用你的剑刺穿她们，直到她们完全死了，忘记了所有关于爱和进入的方法。他们过去常常把这个秘密告诉求婚者。

On this the women came down in a body, weeping and wailing bitterly. First they carried the dead bodies out, and propped them up against one another in the gatehouse. Ulysses ordered them about and made them do their work quickly, so they had to carry the bodies out. When they had done this, they cleaned all the tables and seats with sponges and water, while Telemachus and the two others shovelled up the blood and dirt from the ground, and the women carried it all away and put it out of doors. Then when they had made the whole place quite clean and orderly, they took the women out and hemmed them in the narrow space between the wall of the domed room and that of the yard, so that they could not get away: and Telemachus said to the other two, ‘I shall not let these women die a clean death, for they were insolent to me and my mother, and used to sleep with the suitors.’
闻言，女人们齐齐跪倒，痛哭流涕。他们首先把尸体抬出来，在门楼里将尸体并排放置。尤利西斯命令他们，让他们赶紧干活，所以他们只好把尸体抬出去。做完这一切后，他们用海绵和水清理了所有的桌子和座位，而忒勒马科斯和另外两个人则铲起地上的血迹和泥土，女人们把它们全部运走并放在门外。然后，当他们把整个地方弄得干净整洁后，他们把妇女们带出来，把她们围在圆顶房间的墙壁和院子的墙壁之间的狭窄空间里，这样她们就无法逃脱：特勒马科斯说另外两个人则说：“我不会让这些女人死得干净，因为她们对我和我母亲无礼，还常常和求婚者上床。”

So saying he made a ship’s cable fast to one of the bearing-posts that supported the roof of the domed room, and secured it all around the building, at a good height, lest any of the women’s feet should touch the ground; and as thrushes or doves beat against a net that has been set for them in a thicket just as they were getting to their nest, and a terrible fate awaits them, even so did the women have to put their heads in nooses one after the other and die most miserably. {178} Their feet moved convulsively for a while, but not for very long.
说着，他将一根船缆固定在支撑圆顶房间屋顶的一根支撑柱上，并将其固定在建筑物周围，高度固定，以免妇女的脚接触地面；当画眉或鸽子到达巢穴时，它们会撞上灌木丛中为它们设置的网，可怕的命运等待着它们，即便如此，女人们也不得不把头一个接一个地套在套索里。并且死得最惨。 {178} 他们的脚抽搐了一段时间，但时间不长。

As for Melanthius, they took him through the cloister into the inner court. There they cut off his nose and his ears; they drew out his vitals and gave them to the dogs raw, and then in their fury they cut off his hands and his feet.
至于梅兰修斯，他们带他穿过回廊进入内院。在那里，他们割掉了他的鼻子和耳朵；他们把他的要害部分拔出来，生吃给狗吃，然后在愤怒中砍掉了他的手和脚。

When they had done this they washed their hands and feet and went back into the house, for all was now over; and Ulysses said to the dear old nurse Euryclea, ‘Bring me sulphur, which cleanses all pollution, and fetch fire also that I may burn it, and purify the cloisters. Go, moreover, and tell Penelope to come here with her attendants, and also all the maidservants that are in the house.’
做完这一切后，他们洗了手洗了脚，然后回到屋里，因为现在一切都结束了。尤利西斯对亲爱的老护士欧律克里亚说：“给我带来硫磺，它可以净化所有的污染，还可以取火来，我可以燃烧它，净化修道院。”另外，你去告诉佩内洛普带着她的侍从以及屋里所有的女仆到这里来。

‘All that you have said is true,’ answered Euryclea, ‘but let me bring you some clean clothes—a shirt and cloak. Do not keep these rags on your back any longer. It is not right.’
“你说的都是真的，”欧律克里亚回答道，“但是让我给你拿一些干净的衣服——一件衬衫和斗篷。不要再把这些破布放在背上。这是不对的。'

‘First light me a fire,’ replied Ulysses.
“先给我生火，”尤利西斯回答道。

She brought the fire and sulphur, as he had bidden her, and Ulysses thoroughly purified the cloisters and both the inner and outer courts. Then she went inside to call the women and tell them what had happened; whereon they came from their apartment with torches in their hands, and pressed round Ulysses to embrace him, kissing his head and shoulders and taking hold of his hands. It made him feel as if he should like to weep, for he remembered every one of them. {179}
她按照他的吩咐带来了火和硫磺，尤利西斯彻底净化了修道院以及内外庭院。然后她进去给妇女们打电话，告诉她们发生了什么事。随后，他们手里拿着火把从公寓出来，围住尤利西斯拥抱他，亲吻他的头和肩膀，握住他的手。这让他觉得自己真想哭，因为他记得他们每一个人。 {179}

BOOK XXIII
第二十三册

PENELOPE EVENTUALLY RECOGNISES HER HUSBAND—EARLY IN THE MORNING ULYSSES, TELEMACHUS, EUMAEUS, AND PHILOETIUS LEAVE THE TOWN.
佩内洛普最终认出了她的丈夫——清晨，尤利西斯、忒勒马科斯、尤迈乌斯和斐洛提乌斯离开了小镇。

Euryclea now went upstairs laughing to tell her mistress that her dear husband had come home. Her aged knees became young again and her feet were nimble for joy as she went up to her mistress and bent over her head to speak to her. ‘Wake up Penelope, my dear child,’ she exclaimed, ‘and see with your own eyes something that you have been wanting this long time past. Ulysses has at last indeed come home again, and has killed the suitors who were giving so much trouble in his house, eating up his estate and ill treating his son.’
尤丽克莉亚笑着上楼告诉她的女主人，她亲爱的丈夫回来了。她年老的膝盖又变得年轻了，当她走到她的女主人面前，弯下腰与她说话时，她的双脚因喜悦而变得敏捷。 “醒来佩内洛普，我亲爱的孩子，”她喊道，“亲眼看看你长期以来一直想要的东西。”尤利西斯终于回到了家，杀死了那些在他家里制造麻烦、侵占他财产、虐待他儿子的求婚者。

‘My good nurse,’ answered Penelope, ‘you must be mad. The gods sometimes send some very sensible people out of their minds, and make foolish people become sensible. This is what they must have been doing to you; for you always used to be a reasonable person. Why should you thus mock me when I have trouble enough already—talking such nonsense, and waking me up out of a sweet sleep that had taken possession of my eyes and closed them? I have never slept so soundly from the day my poor husband went to that city with the ill-omened name. Go back again into the women’s room; if it had been any one else who had woke me up to bring me such absurd news I should have sent her away with a severe scolding. As it is your age shall protect you.’
“我的好护士，”佩内洛普回答道，“你一定是疯了。”神有时会把一些非常明智的人从他们的头脑中赶走，而让愚蠢的人变得明智。这就是他们一定对你做的事；因为你一直都是一个讲道理的人。当我的麻烦已经够多的时候，你为什么要这样嘲笑我——说这些废话，把我从已经占据我的眼睛并闭上的甜美睡眠中吵醒？自从我可怜的丈夫带着不祥的名字来到那个城市以来，我从来没有睡得这么香过。再次回到女洗手间；如果是别人叫醒我，告诉我这么荒唐的消息，我一定会狠狠地责骂她一顿。因为你的年龄会保护你。

‘My dear child,’ answered Euryclea, ‘I am not mocking you. It is quite true as I tell you that Ulysses is come home again. He was the stranger whom they all kept on treating so badly in the cloister. Telemachus knew all the time that he was come back, but kept his father’s secret that he might have his revenge on all these wicked people.’
“我亲爱的孩子，”尤里克利回答道，“我不是在嘲笑你。我告诉你，尤利西斯又回来了，这是千真万确的。他是修道院里所有人一直虐待的陌生人。忒勒马科斯一直都知道他会回来，但他保守了他父亲的秘密，以便他可以向所有这些邪恶的人复仇。

Then Penelope sprang up from her couch, threw her arms round Euryclea, and wept for joy. ‘But my dear nurse,’ said she, ‘explain this to me; if he has really come home as you say, how did he manage to overcome the wicked suitors single handed, seeing what a number of them there always were?’
然后佩内洛普从沙发上跳起来，张开双臂拥抱欧律克莉亚，高兴得哭了。 “但是我亲爱的护士，”她说，“请向我解释一下；如果他真的像你说的那样回家了，看看那些邪恶的追求者有多少，他是如何单枪匹马战胜这些邪恶的追求者的呢？

‘I was not there,’ answered Euryclea, ‘and do not know; I only heard them groaning while they were being killed. We sat crouching and huddled up in a corner of the women’s room with the doors closed, till your son came to fetch me because his father sent him. Then I found Ulysses standing over the corpses that were lying on the ground all round him, one on top of the other. You would have enjoyed it if you could have seen him standing there all bespattered with blood and filth, and looking just like a lion. But the corpses are now all piled up in the gatehouse that is in the outer court, and Ulysses has lit a great fire to purify the house with sulphur. He has sent me to call you, so come with me that you may both be happy together after all; for now at last the desire of your heart has been fulfilled; your husband is come home to find both wife and son alive and well, and to take his revenge in his own house on the suitors who behaved so badly to him.’
“我当时不在场，”尤里克利回答道，“我也不知道。我只听到他们被杀时的呻吟声。我们蹲在女厕所的一角，门关着，挤在一起，直到你儿子来接我，因为他父亲派他来的。然后我发现尤利西斯站在他周围地上的尸体旁边，一具尸体压在另一具尸体上。如果你能看到他浑身是血和污秽地站在那里，看起来就像一头狮子，你会很高兴的。但现在尸体都堆在外院的门楼里，尤利西斯点了大火，用硫磺净化了房子。他派我来给你打电话，所以跟我来吧，这样你们俩就能幸福地在一起了；现在你心中的愿望终于实现了；你的丈夫回家发现妻子和儿子都安然无恙，并在自己家里向那些对他如此恶劣的追求者进行报复。

‘My dear nurse,’ said Penelope, ‘do not exult too confidently over all this. You know how delighted every one would be to see Ulysses come home—more particularly myself, and the son who has been born to both of us; but what you tell me cannot be really true. It is some god who is angry with the suitors for their great wickedness, and has made an end of them; for they respected no man in the whole world, neither rich nor poor, who came near them, and they have come to a bad end in consequence of their iniquity; Ulysses is dead far away from the Achaean land; he will never return home again.’
“我亲爱的护士，”佩内洛普说，“不要对这一切过于自信。你知道每个人看到尤利西斯回家都会多么高兴——尤其是我自己，还有我们俩所生的儿子；但你告诉我的不可能是真的。是某位神对求婚者的邪恶行为感到愤怒，并消灭了他们。因为他们不尊重全世界任何接近他们的人，无论贫富，他们都因自己的罪孽而落得不好的下场。尤利西斯死在远离亚该亚土地的地方；他永远不会再回家了。

Then nurse Euryclea said, ‘My child, what are you talking about? but you were all hard of belief and have made up your mind that your husband is never coming, although he is in the house and by his own fire side at this very moment. Besides I can give you another proof; when I was washing him I perceived the scar which the wild boar gave him, and I wanted to tell you about it, but in his wisdom he would not let me, and clapped his hands over my mouth; so come with me and I will make this bargain with you—if I am deceiving you, you may have me killed by the most cruel death you can think of.’
然后护士尤丽克莉亚说：‘我的孩子，你在说什么？但你们都难以置信，并决定你们的丈夫永远不会来，尽管他此刻就在房子里，在他自己的火边。除此之外，我还可以给你另一个证明；当我给他洗澡时，我看到了野猪给他留下的伤疤，我想告诉你这件事，但他明智地不让我这么做，并用手捂住了我的嘴。所以跟我来吧，我会和你做这个交易——如果我欺骗了你，你可能会用你能想到的最残酷的方式杀死我。

‘My dear nurse,’ said Penelope, ‘however wise you may be you can hardly fathom the counsels of the gods. Nevertheless, we will go in search of my son, that I may see the corpses of the suitors, and the man who has killed them.’
“我亲爱的护士，”佩内洛普说，“无论你多么聪明，你都很难理解众神的忠告。尽管如此，我们还是会去寻找我的儿子，这样我就可以看到求婚者的尸体，以及杀死他们的人。

On this she came down from her upper room, and while doing so she considered whether she should keep at a distance from her husband and question him, or whether she should at once go up to him and embrace him. When, however, she had crossed the stone floor of the cloister, she sat down opposite Ulysses by the fire, against the wall at right angles {180} [to that by which she had entered], while Ulysses sat near one of the bearing-posts, looking upon the ground, and waiting to see what his brave wife would say to him when she saw him. For a long time she sat silent and as one lost in amazement. At one moment she looked him full in the face, but then again directly, she was misled by his shabby clothes and failed to recognise him, {181} till Telemachus began to reproach her and said:
说完，她从楼上下来，一边考虑是否应该与丈夫保持距离并质问他，还是应该立即走上前去拥抱他。然而，当她穿过回廊的石地板时，她坐在尤利西斯对面的火边，靠墙成直角{180}[与她进入的]，而尤利西斯坐在靠近一个方位的地方-柱子，看着地面，等着看他勇敢的妻子看到他时会对他说些什么。她静静地坐了很长一段时间，一副惊讶的表情。有一瞬间，她正视着他的脸，但随后又直接被他破旧的衣服误导，没有认出他，{181}直到特勒马科斯开始责备她并说：

‘Mother—but you are so hard that I cannot call you by such a name—why do you keep away from my father in this way? Why do you not sit by his side and begin talking to him and asking him questions? No other woman could bear to keep away from her husband when he had come back to her after twenty years of absence, and after having gone through so much; but your heart always was as hard as a stone.’
‘母亲——可是你太严厉了，我不能用这样的名字称呼你——为什么你要这样远离我的父亲呢？你为什么不坐在他身边并开始与他交谈并问他问题呢？当她的丈夫在阔别她二十年、经历了那么多之后又回到她身边时，没有哪个女人能够忍受远离她。但你的心始终像石头一样坚硬。

Penelope answered, ‘My son, I am so lost in astonishment that I can find no words in which either to ask questions or to answer them. I cannot even look him straight in the face. Still, if he really is Ulysses come back to his own home again, we shall get to understand one another better by and by, for there are tokens with which we two are alone acquainted, and which are hidden from all others.’
佩内洛普回答说：“我的孩子，我完全惊呆了，找不到言语来提问或回答。我什至无法直视他的脸。不过，如果他真的是尤利西斯，再次回到自己的家，我们就会逐渐更好地了解彼此，因为有些标记是我们两个人单独熟悉的，而其他人却看不到。

Ulysses smiled at this, and said to Telemachus, ‘Let your mother put me to any proof she likes; she will make up her mind about it presently. She rejects me for the moment and believes me to be somebody else, because I am covered with dirt and have such bad clothes on; let us, however, consider what we had better do next. When one man has killed another—even though he was not one who would leave many friends to take up his quarrel—the man who has killed him must still say good bye to his friends and fly the country; whereas we have been killing the stay of a whole town, and all the picked youth of Ithaca. I would have you consider this matter.’
尤利西斯闻言笑了，对忒勒马科斯说：“让你的母亲向我提供她喜欢的任何证据吧；”她很快就会做出决定。她暂时拒绝了我，并相信我是另一个人，因为我浑身都是污垢，而且穿着这么破烂的衣服；然而，让我们考虑一下接下来我们最好做什么。当一个人杀了另一个人时——即使他不是一个会抛下许多朋友来解决他的争吵的人——杀了他的人仍然必须告别他的朋友并逃离这个国家；而我们却在屠杀整个城镇的居民，以及伊萨卡所有精选的年轻人。我希望你考虑一下这件事。

‘Look to it yourself, father,’ answered Telemachus, ‘for they say you are the wisest counsellor in the world, and that there is no other mortal man who can compare with you. We will follow you with right good will, nor shall you find us fail you in so far as our strength holds out.’
“你自己看吧，父亲，”忒勒马科斯回答道，“因为他们说你是世界上最明智的谋士，没有任何人可以与你相比。我们将怀着正确的善意追随您，只要我们有力量，您也不会发现我们让您失望。

‘I will say what I think will be best,’ answered Ulysses. ‘First wash and put your shirts on; tell the maids also to go to their own room and dress; Phemius shall then strike up a dance tune on his lyre, so that if people outside hear, or any of the neighbours, or some one going along the street happens to notice it, they may think there is a wedding in the house, and no rumours about the death of the suitors will get about in the town, before we can escape to the woods upon my own land. Once there, we will settle which of the courses heaven vouchsafes us shall seem wisest.’
“我会说我认为最好的，”尤利西斯回答。 “先把衬衫洗干净，穿上；吩咐女仆们也各回自己的房间去穿衣。然后，菲米乌斯将用他的七弦琴奏出一首舞曲，这样，如果外面的人听到，或者任何邻居，或者沿着街道走的人碰巧注意到它，他们可能会认为房子里正在举行婚礼，而不是在婚礼上。在我们逃到我自己土地上的树林之前，关于求婚者死亡的谣言将会在镇上传开。一旦到达那里，我们将决定上天赐予我们的哪一条道路看起来最明智。

Thus did he speak, and they did even as he had said. First they washed and put their shirts on, while the women got ready. Then Phemius took his lyre and set them all longing for sweet song and stately dance. The house re-echoed with the sound of men and women dancing, and the people outside said, ‘I suppose the queen has been getting married at last. She ought to be ashamed of herself for not continuing to protect her husband’s property until he comes home.’ {182}
他是这么说的，他们也照他说的做了。首先，他们清洗并穿上衬衫，而女人们则做好准备。然后，菲米乌斯拿起他的七弦琴，让他们都渴望甜美的歌声和庄严的舞蹈。屋子里又回荡着男女跳舞的声音，外面的人都说：“我想女王终于要结婚了。”她应该为自己没有继续保护丈夫的财产直到他回家而感到羞耻。”{182}

This was what they said, but they did not know what it was that had been happening. The upper servant Eurynome washed and anointed Ulysses in his own house and gave him a shirt and cloak, while Minerva made him look taller and stronger than before; she also made the hair grow thick on the top of his head, and flow down in curls like hyacinth blossoms; she glorified him about the head and shoulders just as a skilful workman who has studied art of all kinds under Vulcan or Minerva—and his work is full of beauty—enriches a piece of silver plate by gilding it. He came from the bath looking like one of the immortals, and sat down opposite his wife on the seat he had left. ‘My dear,’ said he, ‘heaven has endowed you with a heart more unyielding than woman ever yet had. No other woman could bear to keep away from her husband when he had come back to her after twenty years of absence, and after having gone through so much. But come, nurse, get a bed ready for me; I will sleep alone, for this woman has a heart as hard as iron.’
他们是这么说的，但他们不知道到底发生了什么。上层仆人欧律诺墨（Eurynome）在自己的家里为尤利西斯（Ulysses）清洗并涂油，并送给他一件衬衫和斗篷，而密涅瓦（Minerva）则让他看起来比以前更高更强壮；她还让他头顶的头发变得浓密，像风信子花一样卷曲地垂下来。她对他的头部和肩膀进行了赞美，就像一个在瓦肯或密涅瓦的指导下学习过各种艺术的熟练工人——他的作品充满了美感——通过镀金来丰富了一块银盘。他从浴池里走出来，看上去就像一位仙人，在他妻子对面的座位上坐了下来。 “亲爱的，”他说，“上天赐予你一颗比女人更坚强的心。”当她的丈夫在阔别二十年、经历了那么多之后又回到她身边时，没有哪个女人能够忍受远离她。但是来吧，护士，为我准备一张床；我会一个人睡，因为这个女人的心硬如铁。

‘My dear,’ answered Penelope, ‘I have no wish to set myself up, nor to depreciate you; but I am not struck by your appearance, for I very well remember what kind of a man you were when you set sail from Ithaca. Nevertheless, Euryclea, take his bed outside the bed chamber that he himself built. Bring the bed outside this room, and put bedding upon it with fleeces, good coverlets, and blankets.’
“亲爱的，”佩内洛普回答说，“我不想抬高自己，也不想贬低你；但我并没有被你的外表所震惊，因为我清楚地记得当你从伊萨卡起航时，你是一个什么样的人。不管怎样，尤里克利，把他的床放在他自己建造的卧室外面。把床搬到房间外面，在上面铺上羊毛床上用品、优质的被单和毯子。

She said this to try him, but Ulysses was very angry and said, ‘Wife, I am much displeased at what you have just been saying. Who has been taking my bed from the place in which I left it? He must have found it a hard task, no matter how skilled a workman he was, unless some god came and helped him to shift it. There is no man living, however strong and in his prime, who could move it from its place, for it is a marvellous curiosity which I made with my very own hands. There was a young olive growing within the precincts of the house, in full vigour, and about as thick as a bearing-post. I built my room round this with strong walls of stone and a roof to cover them, and I made the doors strong and well-fitting. Then I cut off the top boughs of the olive tree and left the stump standing. This I dressed roughly from the root upwards and then worked with carpenter’s tools well and skilfully, straightening my work by drawing a line on the wood, and making it into a bed-prop. I then bored a hole down the middle, and made it the centre-post of my bed, at which I worked till I had finished it, inlaying it with gold and silver; after this I stretched a hide of crimson leather from one side of it to the other. So you see I know all about it, and I desire to learn whether it is still there, or whether any one has been removing it by cutting down the olive tree at its roots.’
她这样说是为了试探他，但尤利西斯很生气，说道：“妻子，我对你刚才所说的话很不高兴。谁把我的床从我原来放的地方拿走了？不管他的手艺多么熟练，他一定觉得这是一项艰巨的任务，除非有神来帮助他转移它。没有一个活着的人，无论多么强壮，多么年富力强，都可以把它从原来的地方移走，因为这是我亲手制作的一件奇妙的珍品。房子里长着一棵年轻的橄榄树，生机勃勃，大约有一根轴承柱那么粗。我围绕着它建造了我的房间，用坚固的石墙和屋顶来覆盖它们，我把门做得坚固且合身。然后我砍掉了橄榄树的顶部树枝，留下树桩。我从根部向上粗略地整理了一下，然后熟练地使用木匠的工具，在木头上画一条线，把我的作品拉直，然后把它做成床支柱。然后我在中间钻了一个洞，把它作为我床的中心柱，我一直在上面工作，直到完成为止，并用金和银镶嵌它；之后，我将一张深红色皮革从它的一侧拉伸到另一侧。所以你看，我知道这一切，我想知道它是否还在那里，或者是否有人通过砍倒橄榄树的根部来移除它。

When she heard the sure proofs Ulysses now gave her, she fairly broke down. She flew weeping to his side, flung her arms about his neck, and kissed him. ‘Do not be angry with me Ulysses,’ she cried, ‘you, who are the wisest of mankind. We have suffered, both of us. Heaven has denied us the happiness of spending our youth, and of growing old, together; do not then be aggrieved or take it amiss that I did not embrace you thus as soon as I saw you. I have been shuddering all the time through fear that someone might come here and deceive me with a lying story; for there are many very wicked people going about. Jove’s daughter Helen would never have yielded herself to a man from a foreign country, if she had known that the sons of Achaeans would come after her and bring her back. Heaven put it in her heart to do wrong, and she gave no thought to that sin, which has been the source of all our sorrows. Now, however, that you have convinced me by showing that you know all about our bed (which no human being has ever seen but you and I and a single maidservant, the daughter of Actor, who was given me by my father on my marriage, and who keeps the doors of our room) hard of belief though I have been I can mistrust no longer.’
当她听到尤利西斯现在给她的确实证据时，她崩溃了。她哭着跑到他身边，用双臂搂住他的脖子，吻了他。 “尤利西斯，别生我的气，”她喊道，“你是人类中最聪明的人。”我们俩都受过苦。上天不让我们一起度过青春年华和白头偕老的幸福；请不要因为我一见到你就没有这样拥抱你而感到委屈或不高兴。我一直战战兢兢，生怕有人来这里用谎言欺骗我；因为有许多非常邪恶的人在活动。如果朱庇特的女儿海伦知道亚该亚人的儿子们会追捕她并将她带回来，她绝不会屈服于一个来自外国的男人。上天让她心里有做错事的念头，而她却没有想到那罪孽，而这罪孽是我们所有悲伤的根源。然而，现在你已经说服了我，因为你表明你对我们的床了如指掌（除了你和我以及一个女仆，演员的女儿，没有人见过这张床，她是我父亲在我结婚时给我的） ，以及谁负责我们房间的门）尽管我一直难以置信，但我不能再怀疑了。

Then Ulysses in his turn melted, and wept as he clasped his dear and faithful wife to his bosom. As the sight of land is welcome to men who are swimming towards the shore, when Neptune has wrecked their ship with the fury of his winds and waves; a few alone reach the land, and these, covered with brine, are thankful when they find themselves on firm ground and out of danger—even so was her husband welcome to her as she looked upon him, and she could not tear her two fair arms from about his neck. Indeed they would have gone on indulging their sorrow till rosy-fingered morn appeared, had not Minerva determined otherwise, and held night back in the far west, while she would not suffer Dawn to leave Oceanus, nor to yoke the two steeds Lampus and Phaethon that bear her onward to break the day upon mankind.
然后尤利西斯也融化了，他把亲爱而忠诚的妻子抱在怀里哭泣。当海王星用狂暴的风浪摧毁了他们的船时，正游向海岸的人们欢迎看到陆地；少数人独自到达陆地，这些浑身是盐水的人，当他们发现自己站在坚实的地面上并且摆脱了危险时，他们感到很感激——尽管如此，当她看着她的丈夫时，她还是很欢迎他，她不能撕裂她的两个美丽的女人。手臂从脖子上伸出来。事实上，如果密涅瓦另有决定，并在遥远的西方阻止了黑夜，他们会继续沉浸在悲伤中，直到玫瑰色的早晨出现，同时她不会让黎明离开俄刻阿诺斯，也不会让两匹骏马兰普斯和法厄同同负轭。带着她继续前进，为人类带来曙光。

At last, however, Ulysses said, ‘Wife, we have not yet reached the end of our troubles. I have an unknown amount of toil still to undergo. It is long and difficult, but I must go through with it, for thus the shade of Teiresias prophesied concerning me, on the day when I went down into Hades to ask about my return and that of my companions. But now let us go to bed, that we may lie down and enjoy the blessed boon of sleep.’
然而，最后尤利西斯说道：“妻子，我们的麻烦还没有结束。我还有无数的辛劳需要承受。这是漫长而困难的，但我必须完成它，因为在我下到地狱询问我和我的同伴归来的那天，泰瑞西亚斯的阴影对我做出了预言。但现在让我们上床睡觉吧，这样我们就可以躺下来享受睡眠的福祉了。

‘You shall go to bed as soon as you please,’ replied Penelope, ‘now that the gods have sent you home to your own good house and to your country. But as heaven has put it in your mind to speak of it, tell me about the task that lies before you. I shall have to hear about it later, so it is better that I should be told at once.’
“只要你愿意，你就可以上床睡觉了，”佩内洛普回答道，“既然众神已经送你回家，回到你自己的好房子和你的国家了。但既然上天已经把它放在你的脑海里了，请告诉我你面前的任务。我稍后会听到这件事，所以最好立即告诉我。

‘My dear,’ answered Ulysses, ‘why should you press me to tell you? Still, I will not conceal it from you, though you will not like it. I do not like it myself, for Teiresias bade me travel far and wide, carrying an oar, till I came to a country where the people have never heard of the sea, and do not even mix salt with their food. They know nothing about ships, nor oars that are as the wings of a ship. He gave me this certain token which I will not hide from you. He said that a wayfarer should meet me and ask me whether it was a winnowing shovel that I had on my shoulder. On this, I was to fix my oar in the ground and sacrifice a ram, a bull, and a boar to Neptune; after which I was to go home and offer hecatombs to all the gods in heaven, one after the other. As for myself, he said that death should come to me from the sea, and that my life should ebb away very gently when I was full of years and peace of mind, and my people should bless me. All this, he said, should surely come to pass.’
“亲爱的，”尤利西斯回答道，“你为什么要逼我告诉你呢？不过，我不会向你隐瞒，尽管你不喜欢它。我自己也不喜欢这样，因为泰瑞西亚斯吩咐我拿着桨，远行万里，直到来到一个人民从未听说过大海、甚至不把盐与食物混合的国家。他们对船一无所知，也不知道像船翼一样的桨。他给了我这个特定的令牌，我不会向你隐瞒。他说一个徒步旅行者应该遇见我并问我肩上是否有一把扬谷铲。为此，我要把桨固定在地上，向海王星献祭一只公羊、一头公牛和一头野猪；然后我就回家，一一向天上的诸神献祭。至于我自己，他说死亡应该从海上降临到我身上，当我年富力强、内心平静时，我的生命应该非常温柔地消逝，我的人民应该祝福我。他说，这一切肯定会实现。

And Penelope said, ‘If the gods are going to vouchsafe you a happier time in your old age, you may hope then to have some respite from misfortune.’
佩内洛普说：“如果众神赐予你晚年的幸福时光，那么你可能希望能从不幸中得到一些喘息的机会。”

Thus did they converse. Meanwhile Eurynome and the nurse took torches and made the bed ready with soft coverlets; as soon as they had laid them, the nurse went back into the house to go to her rest, leaving the bed chamber woman Eurynome {183} to show Ulysses and Penelope to bed by torch light. When she had conducted them to their room she went back, and they then came joyfully to the rites of their own old bed. Telemachus, Philoetius, and the swineherd now left off dancing, and made the women leave off also. They then laid themselves down to sleep in the cloisters.
他们就这样交谈。与此同时，欧律诺墨和护士拿起手电筒，准备好床铺，盖上柔软的被单。他们一放好，护士就回到屋里去休息，留下卧室的女人尤里诺姆（Eurynome）{183}，用手电筒的灯光引导尤利西斯和佩内洛普上床睡觉。当她领他们到自己的房间时，她又回去了，然后他们高兴地来到自己的旧床上举行仪式。忒勒马科斯、菲洛提乌斯和猪倌现在不再跳舞了，也让妇女们也停止跳舞。然后他们就在回廊里躺下睡觉。

When Ulysses and Penelope had had their fill of love they fell talking with one another. She told him how much she had had to bear in seeing the house filled with a crowd of wicked suitors who had killed so many sheep and oxen on her account, and had drunk so many casks of wine. Ulysses in his turn told her what he had suffered, and how much trouble he had himself given to other people. He told her everything, and she was so delighted to listen that she never went to sleep till he had ended his whole story.
当尤利西斯和佩内洛普充满爱意时，他们开始互相交谈。她告诉他，看到家里挤满了一群邪恶的追求者，他们为了她杀了那么多牛羊，喝了那么多酒桶，她是多么痛苦。尤利西斯则向她讲述了他所遭受的苦难，以及他自己给别人带来了多少麻烦。他把一切都告诉了她，她听得很高兴，直到他讲完整个故事后她才睡着了。

He began with his victory over the Cicons, and how he thence reached the fertile land of the Lotus-eaters. He told her all about the Cyclops and how he had punished him for having so ruthlessly eaten his brave comrades; how he then went on to Aeolus, who received him hospitably and furthered him on his way, but even so he was not to reach home, for to his great grief a hurricane carried him out to sea again; how he went on to the Laestrygonian city Telepylos, where the people destroyed all his ships with their crews, save himself and his own ship only. Then he told of cunning Circe and her craft, and how he sailed to the chill house of Hades, to consult the ghost of the Theban prophet Teiresias, and how he saw his old comrades in arms, and his mother who bore him and brought him up when he was a child; how he then heard the wondrous singing of the Sirens, and went on to the wandering rocks and terrible Charybdis and to Scylla, whom no man had ever yet passed in safety; how his men then ate the cattle of the sun-god, and how Jove therefore struck the ship with his thunderbolts, so that all his men perished together, himself alone being left alive; how at last he reached the Ogygian island and the nymph Calypso, who kept him there in a cave, and fed him, and wanted him to marry her, in which case she intended making him immortal so that he should never grow old, but she could not persuade him to let her do so; and how after much suffering he had found his way to the Phaeacians, who had treated him as though he had been a god, and sent him back in a ship to his own country after having given him gold, bronze, and raiment in great abundance. This was the last thing about which he told her, for here a deep sleep took hold upon him and eased the burden of his sorrows.
他首先讲述了他对西孔人的胜利，以及他如何到达食莲者的肥沃土地。他告诉她有关独眼巨人的一切，以及他如何惩罚独眼巨人，因为独眼巨人如此无情地吃掉了他勇敢的战友。然后他如何前往埃俄罗斯，埃俄罗斯热情地接待了他，并继续送他上路，但即便如此，他还是没能回家，因为一场飓风再次把他带到了海上，这让他非常悲伤。他如何继续前往莱斯特里贡尼亚城市特莱皮洛斯，那里的人们摧毁了他所有的船只及其船员，只保存了他自己和他自己的船。然后他讲述了狡猾的喀耳刻和她的手艺，以及他如何航行到哈迪斯寒冷的房子，去咨询底比斯先知泰瑞西亚斯的鬼魂，以及他如何看到他的老战友，以及他生养他并把他带来的母亲。当他还是个孩子的时候；然后他如何听到海妖美妙的歌声，然后继续前往徘徊的岩石和可怕的卡律布狄斯和斯库拉，迄今为止还没有人安全地经过那里；然后，他的部下如何吃掉太阳神的牲畜，而朱庇特又如何用雷电击中了这艘船，以致他的部下全部灭亡，只有他自己幸存下来？最后他如何到达奥吉吉安岛，仙女卡吕普索将他关在山洞里，喂养他，并想让他娶她，在这种情况下，她打算让他永生，这样他就不会变老，但她无法说服他让她这么做；在经历了许多痛苦之后，他如何找到了通往费埃克斯人的道路，费埃克斯人把他当作神一样对待，并在给了他大量金子、青铜和衣服后，用船把他送回了自己的国家。 。这是他告诉她的最后一件事，因为此时他陷入了沉睡，减轻了他的悲伤负担。

Then Minerva bethought her of another matter. When she deemed that Ulysses had had both of his wife and of repose, she bade gold-enthroned Dawn rise out of Oceanus that she might shed light upon mankind. On this, Ulysses rose from his comfortable bed and said to Penelope, ‘Wife, we have both of us had our full share of troubles, you, here, in lamenting my absence, and I in being prevented from getting home though I was longing all the time to do so. Now, however, that we have at last come together, take care of the property that is in the house. As for the sheep and goats which the wicked suitors have eaten, I will take many myself by force from other people, and will compel the Achaeans to make good the rest till they shall have filled all my yards. I am now going to the wooded lands out in the country to see my father who has so long been grieved on my account, and to yourself I will give these instructions, though you have little need of them. At sunrise it will at once get abroad that I have been killing the suitors; go upstairs, therefore, {184} and stay there with your women. See nobody and ask no questions.’ {185}
然后米勒娃想到了另一件事。当她认为尤利西斯已经拥有了他的妻子和安息时，她命令金色王座的黎明从俄刻诺斯升起，以便她可以照亮人类。说到这里，尤利西斯从他舒适的床上站起来，对佩内洛普说：“妻子，我们俩都经历了全部的麻烦，你在这里为我的缺席而哀叹，而我却被阻止回家，尽管我很渴望一直这样做。然而，现在我们终于聚在一起，照顾好房子里的财产。至于那些邪恶的追求者吃掉的绵羊和山羊，我将用武力从别人那里夺取许多，并迫使亚该亚人补足其余的，直到它们填满我所有的院子。我现在要去乡下的林地看望我的父亲，他长期以来一直因我而悲伤，我会给你这些指示，尽管你不需要它们。日出时，我已经杀死了求婚者的消息立刻就会传开；因此，上楼吧，{184} 和你的女人呆在那里。见不到任何人，也不要问任何问题。”{185}

As he spoke he girded on his armour. Then he roused Telemachus, Philoetius, and Eumaeus, and told them all to put on their armour also. This they did, and armed themselves. When they had done so, they opened the gates and sallied forth, Ulysses leading the way. It was now daylight, but Minerva nevertheless concealed them in darkness and led them quickly out of the town.
说着，他就穿上了铠甲。然后他叫醒了特勒马科斯、菲洛提乌斯和尤迈乌斯，并告诉他们也都穿上盔甲。他们这样做了，并武装了自己。完成后，他们打开城门，向前冲去，尤利西斯在前面带路。现在已经是白天了，但米勒娃还是把他们隐藏在黑暗中，带着他们很快出了小镇。

BOOK XXIV
第二十四册

THE GHOSTS OF THE SUITORS IN HADES—ULYSSES AND HIS MEN GO TO THE HOUSE OF LAERTES—THE PEOPLE OF ITHACA COME OUT TO ATTACK ULYSSES, BUT MINERVA CONCLUDES A PEACE.
哈迪斯求婚者的鬼魂——尤利西斯和他的部下前往莱尔提斯之家——伊萨卡的人们出来攻击尤利西斯，但密涅瓦缔结了和平。

Then Mercury of Cyllene summoned the ghosts of the suitors, and in his hand he held the fair golden wand with which he seals men’s eyes in sleep or wakes them just as he pleases; with this he roused the ghosts and led them, while they followed whining and gibbering behind him. As bats fly squealing in the hollow of some great cave, when one of them has fallen out of the cluster in which they hang, even so did the ghosts whine and squeal as Mercury the healer of sorrow led them down into the dark abode of death. When they had passed the waters of Oceanus and the rock Leucas, they came to the gates of the sun and the land of dreams, whereon they reached the meadow of asphodel where dwell the souls and shadows of them that can labour no more.
然后，Cylene的墨丘利召唤了求婚者的鬼魂，他手里拿着那根美丽的金色魔杖，他可以用它封住睡梦中的人们的眼睛，或者随心所欲地唤醒他们；他用这句话唤醒了鬼魂并带领着它们，而它们则在他身后哀嚎、胡言乱语地跟着。就像蝙蝠在某个大洞穴的空洞中尖叫着飞翔，当其中一只从它们悬挂的集群中掉下来时，当悲伤的治愈者墨丘利带领他们进入死亡的黑暗居所时，鬼魂也发出哀鸣和尖叫声。 。当他们经过大洋阿诺斯的水域和莱乌卡斯岩石时，他们来到了太阳和梦想之地的大门，在那里他们到达了水仙草甸，那里居住着那些不再劳作的灵魂和影子。

Here they found the ghost of Achilles son of Peleus, with those of Patroclus, Antilochus, and Ajax, who was the finest and handsomest man of all the Danaans after the son of Peleus himself.
在这里，他们发现了珀琉斯之子阿喀琉斯的鬼魂，以及帕特罗克洛斯、安提洛科斯和埃阿斯的鬼魂，后者是继珀琉斯之子之后所有达纳人中最优秀、最英俊的人。

They gathered round the ghost of the son of Peleus, and the ghost of Agamemnon joined them, sorrowing bitterly. Round him were gathered also the ghosts of those who had perished with him in the house of Aegisthus; and the ghost of Achilles spoke first.
他们聚集在珀琉斯之子的鬼魂周围，阿伽门农的鬼魂也加入了他们，痛苦地悲伤着。在他周围还聚集着那些与他一起在埃吉斯托斯的宅邸中死去的人的鬼魂。阿喀琉斯的鬼魂首先开口说话。

‘Son of Atreus,’ it said, ‘we used to say that Jove had loved you better from first to last than any other hero, for you were captain over many and brave men, when we were all fighting together before Troy; yet the hand of death, which no mortal can escape, was laid upon you all too early. Better for you had you fallen at Troy in the hey-day of your renown, for the Achaeans would have built a mound over your ashes, and your son would have been heir to your good name, whereas it has now been your lot to come to a most miserable end.’
“阿特柔斯之子，”它说，“我们常说，朱庇特自始至终都比其他英雄更爱你，因为当我们在特洛伊城前并肩作战时，你是众多勇士的统帅；然而，凡人都无法逃脱的死亡之手却过早地降临在你们身上。如果你在你声名鼎盛的时候倒在特洛伊，对你来说会更好，因为亚该亚人会在你的骨灰上筑起一座土堆，你的儿子会继承你的好名声，而现在你的命运已经注定了。到了最悲惨的结局。

‘Happy son of Peleus,’ answered the ghost of Agamemnon, ‘for having died at Troy far from Argos, while the bravest of the Trojans and the Achaeans fell round you fighting for your body. There you lay in the whirling clouds of dust, all huge and hugely, heedless now of your chivalry. We fought the whole of the livelong day, nor should we ever have left off if Jove had not sent a hurricane to stay us. Then, when we had borne you to the ships out of the fray, we laid you on your bed and cleansed your fair skin with warm water and with ointments. The Danaans tore their hair and wept bitterly round about you. Your mother, when she heard, came with her immortal nymphs from out of the sea, and the sound of a great wailing went forth over the waters so that the Achaeans quaked for fear. They would have fled panic-stricken to their ships had not wise old Nestor whose counsel was ever truest checked them saying, ‘Hold, Argives, fly not sons of the Achaeans, this is his mother coming from the sea with her immortal nymphs to view the body of her son.’
“珀琉斯的快乐之子，”阿伽门农的鬼魂回答道，“因为他死在远离阿尔戈斯的特洛伊，而最勇敢的特洛伊人和亚该亚人却在你周围为你的身体而战。你躺在旋转的尘埃云中，一切都巨大无比，现在完全不顾你的骑士精神。我们战斗了一整天，如果不是朱庇特派来一场飓风来阻止我们，我们就永远不会停止。然后，当我们把你从战场上抬到船上时，我们把你放在床上，用温水和药膏清洗你白皙的皮肤。达南人撕扯头发，围着你痛哭。你的母亲听到后，带着她不朽的仙女从海中赶来，水面上传出巨大的哀号声，亚该亚人都因恐惧而颤抖。如果不是聪明的老内斯特（他的忠告是最真实的）阻止了他们，他们会惊慌失措地逃回船上，他说：“等一下，阿尔戈斯，亚该亚人的儿子们不要飞，这是他的母亲带着她不朽的仙女从海上来观看。”她儿子的尸体。

‘Thus he spoke, and the Achaeans feared no more. The daughters of the old man of the sea stood round you weeping bitterly, and clothed you in immortal raiment. The nine muses also came and lifted up their sweet voices in lament—calling and answering one another; there was not an Argive but wept for pity of the dirge they chaunted. Days and nights seven and ten we mourned you, mortals and immortals, but on the eighteenth day we gave you to the flames, and many a fat sheep with many an ox did we slay in sacrifice around you. You were burnt in raiment of the gods, with rich resins and with honey, while heroes, horse and foot, clashed their armour round the pile as you were burning, with the tramp as of a great multitude. But when the flames of heaven had done their work, we gathered your white bones at daybreak and laid them in ointments and in pure wine. Your mother brought us a golden vase to hold them—gift of Bacchus, and work of Vulcan himself; in this we mingled your bleached bones with those of Patroclus who had gone before you, and separate we enclosed also those of Antilochus, who had been closer to you than any other of your comrades now that Patroclus was no more.
‘他这么一说，亚该亚人就不再害怕了。海老人的女儿们站在你周围痛哭，给你穿上不朽的衣裳。九位缪斯也来了，高声哀叹，互相呼唤、回应；没有一个阿尔戈夫人因他们所唱的挽歌而哭泣。七日七夜，我们为你们哀悼，凡人和神仙，但在第十八天，我们把你们投入火中，在你们周围宰杀了许多肥羊和许多牛。你们穿着众神的服装，用丰富的树脂和蜂蜜被烧死，而英雄们，马和脚，在你们被烧毁时，他们的盔甲在堆上碰撞，伴随着一大群人的脚步声。但当天堂的火焰完成它们的工作后，我们在黎明时收集了你们的白骨，并将它们放在油膏和纯酒中。你母亲给我们带来了一个金花瓶来盛放它们——这是酒神巴克斯的礼物，也是伏尔甘本人的作品；在这里，我们把你漂白的骨头和在你之前去世的帕特罗克洛斯的骨头混在一起，我们还把安提洛科斯的骨头分开，自从帕特罗克洛斯去世后，他比你的任何其他同志都更接近你。

‘Over these the host of the Argives built a noble tomb, on a point jutting out over the open Hellespont, that it might be seen from far out upon the sea by those now living and by them that shall be born hereafter. Your mother begged prizes from the gods, and offered them to be contended for by the noblest of the Achaeans. You must have been present at the funeral of many a hero, when the young men gird themselves and make ready to contend for prizes on the death of some great chieftain, but you never saw such prizes as silver-footed Thetis offered in your honour; for the gods loved you well. Thus even in death your fame, Achilles, has not been lost, and your name lives evermore among all mankind. But as for me, what solace had I when the days of my fighting were done? For Jove willed my destruction on my return, by the hands of Aegisthus and those of my wicked wife.’
“阿尔戈斯人的军队在这些之上建造了一座高贵的坟墓，位于开阔的赫勒斯滂海峡上方的一个突出点上，这样现在活着的人和将来出生的人就可以从遥远的海上看到它。你的母亲向众神乞求奖品，并提供给亚该亚人中最高贵的人来争夺。你一定参加过许多英雄的葬礼，当年轻人们束紧腰带，准备为某个伟大酋长的死而争夺奖品时，但你从未见过银足忒提斯为你提供的奖品；因为诸神很爱你。因此，即使死了，阿喀琉斯，你的名声也没有消失，你的名字永远活在全人类之中。但对我来说，当我的战斗结束后，我还能得到什么安慰呢？因为朱庇特希望我一回来就被埃吉斯托斯和我邪恶的妻子所毁灭。

Thus did they converse, and presently Mercury came up to them with the ghosts of the suitors who had been killed by Ulysses. The ghosts of Agamemnon and Achilles were astonished at seeing them, and went up to them at once. The ghost of Agamemnon recognised Amphimedon son of Melaneus, who lived in Ithaca and had been his host, so it began to talk to him.
他们就这样交谈着，不久墨丘利就带着被尤利西斯杀死的求婚者的鬼魂向他们走来。阿伽门农和阿喀琉斯的鬼魂看到他们，大吃一惊，立刻向他们走去。阿伽门农的鬼魂认出了梅兰纽斯的儿子安菲米顿，他住在伊萨卡，曾经是他的主人，所以它开始与他交谈。

‘Amphimedon,’ it said, ‘what has happened to all you fine young men—all of an age too—that you are come down here under the ground? One could pick no finer body of men from any city. Did Neptune raise his winds and waves against you when you were at sea, or did your enemies make an end of you on the mainland when you were cattle-lifting or sheep-stealing, or while fighting in defence of their wives and city? Answer my question, for I have been your guest. Do you not remember how I came to your house with Menelaus, to persuade Ulysses to join us with his ships against Troy? It was a whole month ere we could resume our voyage, for we had hard work to persuade Ulysses to come with us.’
“安菲米冬，”它说道，“你们这些优秀的年轻人——也都到了这个年纪——到底发生了什么事，才来到这里的地下？在任何一座城市中，人们都找不到比他更优秀的人了。当你在海上时，海王星是否对你狂风巨浪，或者当你在陆地上举牛偷羊时，或者在保卫他们的妻子和城市时，你的敌人消灭了你？回答我的问题，因为我是你的客人。你不记得我是如何和墨涅拉俄斯一起来到你家，说服尤利西斯与我们一起率领他的船只进攻特洛伊的吗？我们花了整整一个月的时间才恢复航行，因为我们费了很大的劲才说服尤利西斯跟我们一起去。

And the ghost of Amphimedon answered, ‘Agamemnon, son of Atreus, king of men, I remember everything that you have said, and will tell you fully and accurately about the way in which our end was brought about. Ulysses had been long gone, and we were courting his wife, who did not say point blank that she would not marry, nor yet bring matters to an end, for she meant to compass our destruction: this, then, was the trick she played us. She set up a great tambour frame in her room and began to work on an enormous piece of fine needlework. ‘Sweethearts,’ said she, ‘Ulysses is indeed dead, still, do not press me to marry again immediately; wait—for I would not have my skill in needlework perish unrecorded—till I have completed a pall for the hero Laertes, against the time when death shall take him. He is very rich, and the women of the place will talk if he is laid out without a pall.’ This is what she said, and we assented; whereupon we could see her working upon her great web all day long, but at night she would unpick the stitches again by torchlight. She fooled us in this way for three years without our finding it out, but as time wore on and she was now in her fourth year, in the waning of moons and many days had been accomplished, one of her maids who knew what she was doing told us, and we caught her in the act of undoing her work, so she had to finish it whether she would or no; and when she showed us the robe she had made, after she had had it washed, {186} its splendour was as that of the sun or moon.
安菲米顿的鬼魂回答道：“阿伽门农，阿特柔斯之子，人类之王，我记得你所说的一切，并将完整而准确地告诉你我们的结局是如何发生的。”尤利西斯早已离开，我们正在向他的妻子求爱，她并没有直截了当地说她不会结婚，也没有结束事情，因为她打算毁灭我们：那么，这就是她玩的把戏我们。她在房间里架起一个巨大的鼓架，开始制作一件巨大的精美针线活。 “亲爱的，”她说，“尤利西斯确实死了，不过，不要催促我立即再婚；等待——因为我不想让我的针线活技艺在没有被记录下来的情况下消失——直到我完成了英雄莱尔提斯的棺材，以对抗死亡将带走他的那一刻。他很有钱，如果把他放在身上不加遮盖，那地方的女人就会议论纷纷。”她是这么说的，我们也同意了。于是，我们可以看到她整天都在织她的大网，但到了晚上，她会在手电筒的光下再次拆线。她就这样愚弄了我们三年，而我们却没有发现，但随着时间的推移，她现在已经第四年了，在月亏和许多日子里已经完成了，她的一个女仆知道了她的身份。行为告诉了我们，我们发现她正在撤消她的工作，所以无论她愿不愿意，她都必须完成它。当她向我们展示她洗过的长袍时，{186}它的光辉就像太阳或月亮一样。

‘Then some malicious god conveyed Ulysses to the upland farm where his swineherd lives. Thither presently came also his son, returning from a voyage to Pylos, and the two came to the town when they had hatched their plot for our destruction. Telemachus came first, and then after him, accompanied by the swineherd, came Ulysses, clad in rags and leaning on a staff as though he were some miserable old beggar. He came so unexpectedly that none of us knew him, not even the older ones among us, and we reviled him and threw things at him. He endured both being struck and insulted without a word, though he was in his own house; but when the will of Aegis-bearing Jove inspired him, he and Telemachus took the armour and hid it in an inner chamber, bolting the doors behind them. Then he cunningly made his wife offer his bow and a quantity of iron to be contended for by us ill-fated suitors; and this was the beginning of our end, for not one of us could string the bow—nor nearly do so. When it was about to reach the hands of Ulysses, we all of us shouted out that it should not be given him, no matter what he might say, but Telemachus insisted on his having it. When he had got it in his hands he strung it with ease and sent his arrow through the iron. Then he stood on the floor of the cloister and poured his arrows on the ground, glaring fiercely about him. First he killed Antinous, and then, aiming straight before him, he let fly his deadly darts and they fell thick on one another. It was plain that some one of the gods was helping them, for they fell upon us with might and main throughout the cloisters, and there was a hideous sound of groaning as our brains were being battered in, and the ground seethed with our blood. This, Agamemnon, is how we came by our end, and our bodies are lying still uncared for in the house of Ulysses, for our friends at home do not yet know what has happened, so that they cannot lay us out and wash the black blood from our wounds, making moan over us according to the offices due to the departed.’
“然后，某个恶毒的神将尤利西斯带到了他的猪倌居住的高地农场。不久之后，他的儿子也来了，刚从皮洛斯航行归来，两人来到这座城镇时，他们已经策划了毁灭我们的阴谋。忒勒马科斯先来，随后在猪倌的陪伴下，尤利西斯也来了，他衣衫褴褛，拄着拐杖，仿佛一个可怜的老乞丐。他来得如此突然，以至于我们都不认识他，甚至我们当中年长的人也不认识他，我们辱骂他，向他扔东西。尽管是在自己家里，他却一言不发地忍受着殴打和侮辱。但当拥有宙斯盾的朱庇特的意志激励了他时，他和忒勒马科斯拿起了盔甲，把它藏在一间内室里，并锁上了身后的门。然后他狡猾地让他的妻子献上他的弓和一些铁，让我们这些不幸的追求者争夺。这就是我们结局的开始，因为我们中没有人能拉弓——也几乎没有人能拉弓。当它即将到达尤利西斯手中时，我们所有人都大声喊道，无论他怎么说，都不应该把它给他，但特勒马科斯坚持要他拥有它。当他把它拿到手上时，他轻松地把它串起来，然后把箭射穿了铁。然后他站在回廊的地板上，将箭洒在地上，凶狠地瞪着四周。他首先杀死了安提诺斯，然后瞄准他的正前方，射出致命的飞镖，飞镖密集地射向彼此。很明显，有一位神在帮助他们，因为他们在整个回廊中以强大的力量向我们袭来，当我们的大脑被敲击时，我们发出可怕的呻吟声，地面因我们的鲜血而沸腾。 阿伽门农，这就是我们最后的结局，我们的尸体仍然无人照料地躺在尤利西斯的房子里，因为我们家里的朋友还不知道发生了什么事，所以他们不能把我们放在地上清洗黑色的衣服。我们的伤口流淌着鲜血，根据死者的职责，我们为我们呻吟。’

‘Happy Ulysses, son of Laertes,’ replied the ghost of Agamemnon, ‘you are indeed blessed in the possession of a wife endowed with such rare excellence of understanding, and so faithful to her wedded lord as Penelope the daughter of Icarius. The fame, therefore, of her virtue shall never die, and the immortals shall compose a song that shall be welcome to all mankind in honour of the constancy of Penelope. How far otherwise was the wickedness of the daughter of Tyndareus who killed her lawful husband; her song shall be hateful among men, for she has brought disgrace on all womankind even on the good ones.’
“快乐的尤利西斯，雷欧提斯的儿子，”阿伽门农的鬼魂回答道，“你确实很幸运，拥有一位如此罕见的理解力卓越的妻子，并且对她的丈夫伊卡里乌斯的女儿佩内洛普如此忠诚。因此，她的美德的名声将永远不会消失，不朽的人们将谱写一首受到全人类欢迎的歌曲，以纪念佩内洛普的坚贞。廷达瑞斯的女儿杀死了她的合法丈夫，这又是多么的邪恶啊！她的歌声将在男人中引起憎恨，因为她给所有女人带来了耻辱，甚至是善良的女人。

Thus did they converse in the house of Hades deep down within the bowels of the earth. Meanwhile Ulysses and the others passed out of the town and soon reached the fair and well-tilled farm of Laertes, which he had reclaimed with infinite labour. Here was his house, with a lean-to running all round it, where the slaves who worked for him slept and sat and ate, while inside the house there was an old Sicel woman, who looked after him in this his country-farm. When Ulysses got there, he said to his son and to the other two:
他们就这样在地底深处的哈迪斯殿堂里交谈。与此同时，尤利西斯和其他人走出了城镇，很快就到达了雷尔提斯美丽而耕作良好的农场，这是他用无限的劳动收复的。这里是他的房子，周围有一个单坡屋顶，为他工作的奴隶们在那里睡觉、坐着、吃饭，房子里有一位西塞尔老妇人，她在他的乡村农场里照顾他。当尤利西斯到达那里时，他对他的儿子和另外两个人说：

‘Go to the house, and kill the best pig that you can find for dinner. Meanwhile I want to see whether my father will know me, or fail to recognise me after so long an absence.’
‘到房子里去，杀掉你能找到的最好的猪作为晚餐。与此同时，我想看看我的父亲是否认识我，或者在离开这么久之后认不出我了。

He then took off his armour and gave it to Eumaeus and Philoetius, who went straight on to the house, while he turned off into the vineyard to make trial of his father. As he went down into the great orchard, he did not see Dolius, nor any of his sons nor of the other bondsmen, for they were all gathering thorns to make a fence for the vineyard, at the place where the old man had told them; he therefore found his father alone, hoeing a vine. He had on a dirty old shirt, patched and very shabby; his legs were bound round with thongs of oxhide to save him from the brambles, and he also wore sleeves of leather; he had a goat skin cap on his head, and was looking very woe-begone. When Ulysses saw him so worn, so old and full of sorrow, he stood still under a tall pear tree and began to weep. He doubted whether to embrace him, kiss him, and tell him all about his having come home, or whether he should first question him and see what he would say. In the end he deemed it best to be crafty with him, so in this mind he went up to his father, who was bending down and digging about a plant.
然后，他脱下盔甲，交给欧迈厄斯和菲洛提乌斯，他们径直走进房子，而他则转向葡萄园去审问他的父亲。当他走进大果园时，他没有看到多利乌斯，也没有看到他的儿子们，也没有看到其他仆人，因为他们都在老人告诉他们的地方收集荆棘，为葡萄园做栅栏。 ;因此，他发现父亲独自一人在锄葡萄树。他穿着一件肮脏的旧衬衫，打着补丁，非常破旧。他的双腿被牛皮带绑住，以免被荆棘缠住，他还穿着皮革袖子。他头上戴着一顶山羊皮帽子，看上去很狼狈。当尤利西斯看到他如此憔悴、如此苍老、充满悲伤时，他站在一棵高大的梨树下，开始哭泣。他犹豫着是否应该拥抱他，亲吻他，告诉他他回家的一切，或者是否应该先询问他，看看他会说什么。最后他觉得还是对他耍点小聪明，于是他走到了正在弯腰挖植物的父亲身边。

‘I see, sir,’ said Ulysses, ‘that you are an excellent gardener—what pains you take with it, to be sure. There is not a single plant, not a fig tree, vine, olive, pear, nor flower bed, but bears the trace of your attention. I trust, however, that you will not be offended if I say that you take better care of your garden than of yourself. You are old, unsavoury, and very meanly clad. It cannot be because you are idle that your master takes such poor care of you, indeed your face and figure have nothing of the slave about them, and proclaim you of noble birth. I should have said that you were one of those who should wash well, eat well, and lie soft at night as old men have a right to do; but tell me, and tell me true, whose bondman are you, and in whose garden are you working? Tell me also about another matter. Is this place that I have come to really Ithaca? I met a man just now who said so, but he was a dull fellow, and had not the patience to hear my story out when I was asking him about an old friend of mine, whether he was still living, or was already dead and in the house of Hades. Believe me when I tell you that this man came to my house once when I was in my own country and never yet did any stranger come to me whom I liked better. He said that his family came from Ithaca and that his father was Laertes, son of Arceisius. I received him hospitably, making him welcome to all the abundance of my house, and when he went away I gave him all customary presents. I gave him seven talents of fine gold, and a cup of solid silver with flowers chased upon it. I gave him twelve light cloaks, and as many pieces of tapestry; I also gave him twelve cloaks of single fold, twelve rugs, twelve fair mantles, and an equal number of shirts. To all this I added four good looking women skilled in all useful arts, and I let him take his choice.’
“我明白了，先生，”尤利西斯说，“您是一位优秀的园丁——当然，您在这方面付出了多少努力。没有一株植物，无论是无花果树、葡萄树、橄榄树、梨树，还是花坛，都留下了你关注的痕迹。然而，我相信，如果我说你比照顾自己更好地照顾你的花园，你不会生气。你年纪大了，不合时宜，衣着也很破烂。不可能是因为你闲着，你的主人才这么不照顾你，事实上，你的面容和身材根本就没有奴隶的影子，而且还宣称你出身高贵。我应该说，你是那些应该好好洗漱、好好吃饭、晚上睡得柔软的人之一，就像老年人有权做的那样；但是请告诉我，老实告诉我，你是谁的仆人，你在谁的花园里干活？还告诉我另一件事。我来到的这个地方真的是伊萨卡吗？刚才我遇到一个人，他这么说，但他是个迟钝的人，当我问他我的一个老朋友的情况时，他没有耐心听我的故事，他是否还活着，或者已经死了？在哈迪斯的家中。相信我，当我告诉你时，当我在自己的国家时，这个人来过我家一次，从来没有任何我更喜欢的陌生人来找过我。他说他的家人来自伊萨卡，他的父亲是阿尔塞修斯的儿子莱尔提斯。我热情地接待了他，欢迎他来到我家里，当他离开时，我给了他所有惯常的礼物。我给了他七他连得的纯金，以及一杯上面刻有花朵的纯银。我给了他十二件轻斗篷和同样多的挂毯。我还给了他十二件单褶斗篷、十二块地毯、十二件漂亮的斗篷和同等数量的衬衫。 除此之外，我还添加了四个精通所有有用艺术的漂亮女人，然后我让他做出选择。’

His father shed tears and answered, ‘Sir, you have indeed come to the country that you have named, but it is fallen into the hands of wicked people. All this wealth of presents has been given to no purpose. If you could have found your friend here alive in Ithaca, he would have entertained you hospitably and would have requited your presents amply when you left him—as would have been only right considering what you had already given him. But tell me, and tell me true, how many years is it since you entertained this guest—my unhappy son, as ever was? Alas! He has perished far from his own country; the fishes of the sea have eaten him, or he has fallen a prey to the birds and wild beasts of some continent. Neither his mother, nor I his father, who were his parents, could throw our arms about him and wrap him in his shroud, nor could his excellent and richly dowered wife Penelope bewail her husband as was natural upon his death bed, and close his eyes according to the offices due to the departed. But now, tell me truly for I want to know. Who and whence are you—tell me of your town and parents? Where is the ship lying that has brought you and your men to Ithaca? Or were you a passenger on some other man’s ship, and those who brought you here have gone on their way and left you?’
他的父亲流着泪回答说：“先生，您确实来到了您所命名的国家，但它落入了恶人的手中。所有这些丰富的礼物都没有任何目的。如果你能在伊萨卡找到你的朋友还活着，他一定会热情款待你，并在你离开他时充分回报你的礼物——考虑到你已经给了他什么，这才是正确的。但是请告诉我，老实告诉我，自从你招待这位客人——我不幸的儿子以来，已经有多少年了？唉!他已经在远离祖国的地方死去了；海里的鱼把他吃掉了，或者他成了某个大陆的鸟类和野兽的猎物。无论是他的母亲，还是我他的父亲，也就是他的父母，都无法用双臂拥抱他，把他包裹在裹尸布里，而他出色且嫁妆丰厚的妻子佩内洛普也无法像她临终时的丈夫一样，为他的丈夫哀悼，并关闭他的床。眼照办公室因离去。但现在，请真实地告诉我，因为我想知道。你是谁，从哪里来——告诉我你的城镇和父母？把你和你的人带到伊萨卡的那艘船现在在哪里？或者你是其他人船上的乘客，那些带你来这里的人已经走了，离开了你？

‘I will tell you everything,’ answered Ulysses, ‘quite truly. I come from Alybas, where I have a fine house. I am son of king Apheidas, who is the son of Polypemon. My own name is Eperitus; heaven drove me off my course as I was leaving Sicania, and I have been carried here against my will. As for my ship it is lying over yonder, off the open country outside the town, and this is the fifth year since Ulysses left my country. Poor fellow, yet the omens were good for him when he left me. The birds all flew on our right hands, and both he and I rejoiced to see them as we parted, for we had every hope that we should have another friendly meeting and exchange presents.’
“我会告诉你一切，”尤利西斯回答，“非常真实。”我来自阿利巴斯，在那里我有一所漂亮的房子。我是阿菲达斯国王的儿子，阿菲达斯国王是波吕佩蒙的儿子。我自己的名字是埃佩里图斯；当我离开西卡尼亚时，上天让我偏离了航线，我是违背自己的意愿被带到这里的。至于我的船，它就停在那边，在城外的空地上，这是尤利西斯离开我的国家第五年了。可怜的家伙，但当他离开我时，预兆对他来说是好的。鸟儿都飞在我们的右手上，在我们分别时，他和我都很高兴看到它们，因为我们非常希望我们能再次友好地见面并交换礼物。

A dark cloud of sorrow fell upon Laertes as he listened. He filled both hands with the dust from off the ground and poured it over his grey head, groaning heavily as he did so. The heart of Ulysses was touched, and his nostrils quivered as he looked upon his father; then he sprang towards him, flung his arms about him and kissed him, saying, ‘I am he, father, about whom you are asking—I have returned after having been away for twenty years. But cease your sighing and lamentation—we have no time to lose, for I should tell you that I have been killing the suitors in my house, to punish them for their insolence and crimes.’
雷欧提斯听着，心中笼罩着一层悲伤的阴云。他双手捧起地上的灰尘，倒在灰色的头上，一边重重地呻吟着。尤利西斯的心被触动了，他看着父亲，鼻孔颤抖。然后他跳向他，张开双臂拥抱他，亲吻他，说道：“我就是你所问到的那个人，父亲，我在离开二十年后回来了。”但请停止你的叹息和哀叹吧——我们没有时间可以浪费了，因为我应该告诉你，我一直在杀死我家里的求婚者，以惩罚他们的傲慢和罪行。

‘If you really are my son Ulysses,’ replied Laertes, ‘and have come back again, you must give me such manifest proof of your identity as shall convince me.’
“如果你真的是我的儿子尤利西斯，”雷欧提斯回答道，“并且又回来了，你就必须向我提供你的身份的明显证据，让我信服。”

‘First observe this scar,’ answered Ulysses, ‘which I got from a boar’s tusk when I was hunting on Mt. Parnassus. You and my mother had sent me to Autolycus, my mother’s father, to receive the presents which when he was over here he had promised to give me. Furthermore I will point out to you the trees in the vineyard which you gave me, and I asked you all about them as I followed you round the garden. We went over them all, and you told me their names and what they all were. You gave me thirteen pear trees, ten apple trees, and forty fig trees; you also said you would give me fifty rows of vines; there was corn planted between each row, and they yield grapes of every kind when the heat of heaven has been laid heavy upon them.’
“首先观察一下这道疤痕，”尤利西斯回答道，“这是我在帕纳苏斯山打猎时从野猪的獠牙上得到的。你和我母亲派我去我母亲的父亲奥托吕库斯那里领取礼物，这些礼物是他来这里时答应送给我的。此外，我会向你指出你给我的葡萄园里的树木，当我跟着你绕着花园转时，我向你询问了所有这些树木。我们仔细检查了所有的人，你告诉了我他们的名字以及他们都是什么。你给了我十三棵梨树，十棵苹果树，四十棵无花果树；你还说过要给我五十行藤蔓；每一行之间都种着玉米，当天上的炎热天气降临到它们身上时，它们就会结出各种葡萄。

Laertes’ strength failed him when he heard the convincing proofs which his son had given him. He threw his arms about him, and Ulysses had to support him, or he would have gone off into a swoon; but as soon as he came to, and was beginning to recover his senses, he said, ‘O father Jove, then you gods are still in Olympus after all, if the suitors have really been punished for their insolence and folly. Nevertheless, I am much afraid that I shall have all the townspeople of Ithaca up here directly, and they will be sending messengers everywhere throughout the cities of the Cephallenians.’
当雷欧提斯听到儿子给他提供的令人信服的证据时，他的力量彻底崩溃了。他张开双臂抱住自己，尤利西斯必须扶住他，否则他就会昏过去。但当他醒来并开始恢复理智时，他说道：“宙斯神父啊，如果求婚者真的因为他们的傲慢和愚蠢而受到惩罚的话，那么你们诸神仍然在奥林匹斯山。”尽管如此，我还是很担心伊萨卡的所有镇民都会直接到这里来，他们会向凯法伦人的各个城市各处派遣信使。

Ulysses answered, ‘Take heart and do not trouble yourself about that, but let us go into the house hard by your garden. I have already told Telemachus, Philoetius, and Eumaeus to go on there and get dinner ready as soon as possible.’
尤利西斯回答说：“放心吧，别为这件事烦恼，让我们进你花园旁边的房子吧。”我已经告诉特勒马科斯、菲洛提乌斯和欧迈乌斯去那里尽快准备晚餐。

Thus conversing the two made their way towards the house. When they got there they found Telemachus with the stockman and the swineherd cutting up meat and mixing wine with water. Then the old Sicel woman took Laertes inside and washed him and anointed him with oil. She put him on a good cloak, and Minerva came up to him and gave him a more imposing presence, making him taller and stouter than before. When he came back his son was surprised to see him looking so like an immortal, and said to him, ‘My dear father, some one of the gods has been making you much taller and better-looking.’
两人一边说着，一边往屋里走去。当他们到达那里时，他们发现忒勒马科斯正与牲畜饲养员和猪倌一起切肉、将酒与水混合。然后，西塞尔老妇人把雷欧提斯抱进屋里，给他洗澡，并给他抹上油。她给他穿上了一件好斗篷，米勒娃走到他面前，让他显得更加威严，让他比以前更高更壮。当他回来时，他的儿子惊讶地发现他看起来像个神仙，对他说：“我亲爱的父亲，有一位神灵让你变得更高、更漂亮了。”

Laertes answered, ‘Would, by Father Jove, Minerva, and Apollo, that I were the man I was when I ruled among the Cephallenians, and took Nericum, that strong fortress on the foreland. If I were still what I then was and had been in our house yesterday with my armour on, I should have been able to stand by you and help you against the suitors. I should have killed a great many of them, and you would have rejoiced to see it.’
雷欧提斯回答说：“以神父朱庇特、密涅瓦和阿波罗的名义，我希望我能成为统治凯法勒尼亚人、占领尼里库姆——沿海地区的坚固堡垒时的那个人。”如果我还是当时的我，昨天穿着铠甲来到我们家，我应该能够站在你身边，帮助你对抗追求者。我应该杀掉他们中的很多人，你会很高兴看到这一点。

Thus did they converse; but the others, when they had finished their work and the feast was ready, left off working, and took each his proper place on the benches and seats. Then they began eating; by and by old Dolius and his sons left their work and came up, for their mother, the Sicel woman who looked after Laertes now that he was growing old, had been to fetch them. When they saw Ulysses and were certain it was he, they stood there lost in astonishment; but Ulysses scolded them good naturedly and said, ‘Sit down to your dinner, old man, and never mind about your surprise; we have been wanting to begin for some time and have been waiting for you.’
他们就这样交谈；但是其他人，当他们完成了自己的工作，宴会也准备好了之后，就停止了工作，在长凳和座位上各就各位。然后他们开始吃饭。渐渐地，老多利乌斯和他的儿子们放下了工作，上来了，因为他们的母亲，那个照顾年老的莱尔提斯的西塞尔女人，来接他们了。当他们看到尤利西斯并确定那就是他时，他们站在那里，惊讶不已。但尤利西斯善意地斥责了他们，说道：“坐下来吃晚饭吧，老伙计，别在意你的惊讶；”我们想开始已经有一段时间了，一直在等你。”

Then Dolius put out both his hands and went up to Ulysses. ‘Sir,’ said he, seizing his master’s hand and kissing it at the wrist, ‘we have long been wishing you home: and now heaven has restored you to us after we had given up hoping. All hail, therefore, and may the gods prosper you. {187} But tell me, does Penelope already know of your return, or shall we send some one to tell her?’
然后多利乌斯伸出双手，走向尤利西斯。 “先生，”他抓住主人的手，亲吻手腕，说道，“我们一直希望您回家：现在，在我们放弃希望之后，上天又把您重新带回了我们身边。因此，万岁，愿诸神保佑你们。 {187}但是告诉我，佩内洛普是否已经知道你回来了，或者我们应该派人告诉她吗？

‘Old man,’ answered Ulysses, ‘she knows already, so you need not trouble about that.’ On this he took his seat, and the sons of Dolius gathered round Ulysses to give him greeting and embrace him one after the other; then they took their seats in due order near Dolius their father.
“老人，”尤利西斯回答道，“她已经知道了，所以你不必为此烦恼。”他坐了下来，多利乌斯的儿子们聚集在尤利西斯周围，向他致意，并一一拥抱他。然后他们按顺序在他们父亲多利乌斯旁边就座。

While they were thus busy getting their dinner ready, Rumour went round the town, and noised abroad the terrible fate that had befallen the suitors; as soon, therefore, as the people heard of it they gathered from every quarter, groaning and hooting before the house of Ulysses. They took the dead away, buried every man his own, and put the bodies of those who came from elsewhere on board the fishing vessels, for the fishermen to take each of them to his own place. They then met angrily in the place of assembly, and when they were got together Eupeithes rose to speak. He was overwhelmed with grief for the death of his son Antinous, who had been the first man killed by Ulysses, so he said, weeping bitterly, ‘My friends, this man has done the Achaeans great wrong. He took many of our best men away with him in his fleet, and he has lost both ships and men; now, moreover, on his return he has been killing all the foremost men among the Cephallenians. Let us be up and doing before he can get away to Pylos or to Elis where the Epeans rule, or we shall be ashamed of ourselves for ever afterwards. It will be an everlasting disgrace to us if we do not avenge the murder of our sons and brothers. For my own part I should have no more pleasure in life, but had rather die at once. Let us be up, then, and after them, before they can cross over to the main land.’
当他们正忙着准备晚餐时，谣言传遍了整个城镇，向四面八方传出求婚者遭遇的可怕命运。因此，人们一听说这件事，就从四面八方聚集到尤利西斯的房子前，发出呻吟和叫喊。他们把死者运走，各埋葬，把从外地来的人的尸体装到渔船上，让渔民们各自运回自己的地方。然后他们在集会地点愤怒地相遇，当他们聚集在一起时，尤佩特斯站起来讲话。他的儿子安提诺斯是尤利西斯杀死的第一个人，他的死让他悲痛万分，他痛哭流涕地说：“我的朋友们，这个人对亚该亚人造成了极大的伤害。”他带走了我们舰队中许多最优秀的人，他失去了船只和人员；而且，现在他回来后已经杀死了凯法勒尼亚人中所有最重要的人物。让我们在他逃往埃皮安人统治的皮洛斯或伊利斯之前起身行动，否则我们将永远为自己感到羞耻。如果我们不为我们的儿子和兄弟被谋杀报仇，那将是我们永远的耻辱。就我个人而言，我不应再享受生活的乐趣，而宁愿立即死去。那么，让我们起身追赶他们，赶在他们穿越大陆之前。”

He wept as he spoke and every one pitied him. But Medon and the bard Phemius had now woke up, and came to them from the house of Ulysses. Every one was astonished at seeing them, but they stood in the middle of the assembly, and Medon said, ‘Hear me, men of Ithaca. Ulysses did not do these things against the will of heaven. I myself saw an immortal god take the form of Mentor and stand beside him. This god appeared, now in front of him encouraging him, and now going furiously about the court and attacking the suitors whereon they fell thick on one another.’
他边说边哭，大家都同情他。但梅东和吟游诗人菲米乌斯现在已经醒来，从尤利西斯的家来到他们身边。每个人看到他们都感到惊讶，但他们站在集会中间，梅东说：“听我说，伊萨卡人。”尤利西斯做这些事并没有违背天意。我亲眼看到一位不朽的神化身为导师，站在他身边。这位神出现了，时而在他面前鼓励他，时而在法庭上愤怒地走来走去，攻击求婚者，而求婚者们则互相攻击。

On this pale fear laid hold of them, and old Halitherses, son of Mastor, rose to speak, for he was the only man among them who knew both past and future; so he spoke to them plainly and in all honesty, saying,
面对这种苍白的恐惧，马斯托尔的儿子老哈利瑟斯站了起来，因为他是他们中唯一既知道过去又知道未来的人。于是他坦白而诚实地对他们说：

‘Men of Ithaca, it is all your own fault that things have turned out as they have; you would not listen to me, nor yet to Mentor, when we bade you check the folly of your sons who were doing much wrong in the wantonness of their hearts—wasting the substance and dishonouring the wife of a chieftain who they thought would not return. Now, however, let it be as I say, and do as I tell you. Do not go out against Ulysses, or you may find that you have been drawing down evil on your own heads.’
“伊萨卡的人们，事情变成这样都是你们自己的错；当我们要求你制止你的儿子们的愚蠢行为时，你不肯听我的话，也不肯听导师的话，他们在内心的肆意妄为中犯下许多错误——浪费物质并羞辱酋长的妻子，他们认为酋长不会回来。然而现在，就照我说的去做吧，按照我告诉你的去做。不要出去反对《尤利西斯》，否则你可能会发现自己把邪恶引到了自己的头上。

This was what he said, and more than half raised a loud shout, and at once left the assembly. But the rest stayed where they were, for the speech of Halitherses displeased them, and they sided with Eupeithes; they therefore hurried off for their armour, and when they had armed themselves, they met together in front of the city, and Eupeithes led them on in their folly. He thought he was going to avenge the murder of his son, whereas in truth he was never to return, but was himself to perish in his attempt.
此话一出，一大半人大喝一声，旋即离开了会场。但其余的人留在原地，因为哈利瑟斯的言论令他们不高兴，他们站在了尤佩瑟斯一边。于是，他们赶紧去取盔甲，武装起来后，他们在城前会合，欧佩忒斯带领他们继续愚蠢的行径。他以为他要为儿子被杀报仇，但实际上他永远不会回来，而他自己却会在他的企图中丧生。

Then Minerva said to Jove, ‘Father, son of Saturn, king of kings, answer me this question—What do you propose to do? Will you set them fighting still further, or will you make peace between them?’
然后密涅瓦对朱庇特说：‘父亲，土星之子，万王之王，请回答我这个问题——你打算做什么？你会让他们进一步战斗，还是让他们之间和平相处？

And Jove answered, ‘My child, why should you ask me? Was it not by your own arrangement that Ulysses came home and took his revenge upon the suitors? Do whatever you like, but I will tell you what I think will be most reasonable arrangement. Now that Ulysses is revenged, let them swear to a solemn covenant, in virtue of which he shall continue to rule, while we cause the others to forgive and forget the massacre of their sons and brothers. Let them then all become friends as heretofore, and let peace and plenty reign.’
朱庇特回答说：“我的孩子，你为什么要问我？尤利西斯回家向求婚者报仇，难道不是你自己的安排吗？你爱怎么做就怎么做，但我会告诉你我认为最合理的安排。既然尤利西斯报仇了，就让他们立下庄严的盟约，他将据此继续统治，而我们则让其他人原谅并忘记对他们的儿子和兄弟的屠杀。让他们像以前一样成为朋友，让和平与富足成为主宰。

This was what Minerva was already eager to bring about, so down she darted from off the topmost summits of Olympus.
这正是密涅瓦已经渴望实现的目标，因此她从奥林匹斯山的最高峰飞奔而下。

Now when Laertes and the others had done dinner, Ulysses began by saying, ‘Some of you go out and see if they are not getting close up to us.’ So one of Dolius’s sons went as he was bid. Standing on the threshold he could see them all quite near, and said to Ulysses, ‘Here they are, let us put on our armour at once.’
当雷欧提斯和其他人吃完晚饭后，尤利西斯开始说道：“你们中的一些人出去看看他们是否靠近我们。”于是多利乌斯的一个儿子按照吩咐去了。站在门槛上，他可以看到他们都离得很近，于是对尤利西斯说：“他们在这里，让我们立即穿上盔甲。”

They put on their armour as fast as they could—that is to say Ulysses, his three men, and the six sons of Dolius. Laertes also and Dolius did the same—warriors by necessity in spite of their grey hair. When they had all put on their armour, they opened the gate and sallied forth, Ulysses leading the way.
他们尽快穿上盔甲——也就是说，尤利西斯、他的三个手下，以及多利乌斯的六个儿子。莱尔提斯和多利乌斯也做了同样的事——尽管头发花白，但他们还是必然的战士。当他们都穿上盔甲后，他们打开城门，向前冲去，尤利西斯在前面带路。

Then Jove’s daughter Minerva came up to them, having assumed the form and voice of Mentor. Ulysses was glad when he saw her, and said to his son Telemachus, ‘Telemachus, now that you are about to fight in an engagement, which will show every man’s mettle, be sure not to disgrace your ancestors, who were eminent for their strength and courage all the world over.’
然后朱庇特的女儿密涅瓦向他们走来，呈现出导师的形象和声音。尤利西斯见到她很高兴，对他的儿子忒勒马科斯说：“忒勒马科斯，现在你即将参加一场将展示每个人的勇气的战斗，一定不要让你的祖先蒙羞，他们以力量而闻名。以及全世界的勇气。”

‘You say truly, my dear father,’ answered Telemachus, ‘and you shall see, if you will, that I am in no mind to disgrace your family.’
“你说的是真的，我亲爱的父亲，”忒勒马科斯回答道，“如果你愿意的话，你就会明白，我无意让你的家人蒙羞。”

Laertes was delighted when he heard this. ‘Good heavens,’ he exclaimed, ‘what a day I am enjoying: I do indeed rejoice at it. My son and grandson are vying with one another in the matter of valour.’
雷欧提斯闻言大喜。 “天哪，”他惊呼道，“我多么享受这一天：我确实为此感到高兴。”我的儿子和孙子正在互相比武。

On this Minerva came close up to him and said, ‘Son of Arceisius—-best friend I have in the world—pray to the blue-eyed damsel, and to Jove her father; then poise your spear and hurl it.’
这时，密涅瓦走到他身边说道：“阿尔塞西乌斯的儿子——我在世界上最好的朋友——向蓝眼睛的少女和她的父亲朱庇特祈祷；然后摆好你的矛并投掷它。

As she spoke she infused fresh vigour into him, and when he had prayed to her he poised his spear and hurled it. He hit Eupeithes’ helmet, and the spear went right through it, for the helmet stayed it not, and his armour rang rattling round him as he fell heavily to the ground. Meantime Ulysses and his son fell upon the front line of the foe and smote them with their swords and spears; indeed, they would have killed every one of them, and prevented them from ever getting home again, only Minerva raised her voice aloud, and made every one pause. ‘Men of Ithaca,’ she cried, ‘cease this dreadful war, and settle the matter at once without further bloodshed.’
当她说话的时候，她给他注入了新的活力，当他向她祈祷后，他举起长矛并投掷出去。他击中了尤佩提斯的头盔，长矛直接穿过了它，因为头盔没有阻止它，当他重重地摔倒在地时，他的盔甲在他周围嘎嘎作响。与此同时，尤利西斯和他的儿子冲到了敌人的前线，用剑和矛击杀了他们。事实上，他们会杀死他们每一个人，并阻止他们再次回家，只有米勒娃提高了声音，让每个人都停下来。 “伊萨卡的人们，”她喊道，“停止这场可怕的战争，立即解决问题，不要再发生流血事件。”

On this pale fear seized every one; they were so frightened that their arms dropped from their hands and fell upon the ground at the sound of the goddess’ voice, and they fled back to the city for their lives. But Ulysses gave a great cry, and gathering himself together swooped down like a soaring eagle. Then the son of Saturn sent a thunderbolt of fire that fell just in front of Minerva, so she said to Ulysses, ‘Ulysses, noble son of Laertes, stop this warful strife, or Jove will be angry with you.’
所有人都被这苍白的恐惧所笼罩；听到女神的声音，他们吓得手臂脱手掉在地上，纷纷逃回城里逃命。但尤利西斯大叫一声，振作起来，像一只展翅翱翔的雄鹰一样俯冲而下。然后，土星之子发出一道雷霆之火，落在密涅瓦面前，她对尤利西斯说：“尤利西斯，雷欧提斯高贵的儿子，停止这场战争，否则朱庇特会对你生气。”

Thus spoke Minerva, and Ulysses obeyed her gladly. Then Minerva assumed the form and voice of Mentor, and presently made a covenant of peace between the two contending parties.
密涅瓦如此说道，尤利西斯高兴地服从了她。然后密涅瓦化身为导师，并以导师的声音出现，并很快在两方之间缔结了和平盟约。

Footnotes
脚注

w

{1} Black races are evidently known to the writer as stretching all across Africa, one half looking West on to the Atlantic, and the other East on to the Indian Ocean.
{1}作者显然知道，黑人种族遍布整个非洲，一半向西望向大西洋，另一边向东望向印度洋。

{2} The original use of the footstool was probably less to rest the feet than to keep them (especially when bare) from a floor which was often wet and dirty.
{2}脚凳最初的用途可能不是为了休息脚，而是为了让脚（尤其是裸露的时候）远离经常潮湿和肮脏的地板。

{3} The [Greek] or seat, is occasionally called ‘high,’ as being higher than the [Greek] or low footstool. It was probably no higher than an ordinary chair is now, and seems to have had no back.
{3} [希腊语] 或座位有时被称为“高”，因为比 [希腊语] 或低脚凳高。它可能并不比现在的普通椅子高，而且似乎没有靠背。

{4} Temesa was on the West Coast of the toe of Italy, in what is now the gulf of Sta Eufemia. It was famous in remote times for its copper mines, which, however, were worked out when Strabo wrote.
{4} 特梅萨位于意大利脚趾的西海岸，即现在的斯塔尤菲米亚湾。它在遥远的时代因其铜矿而闻名，然而，这些铜矿是在斯特拉波写作时才开采出来的。

{5} i.e. ‘with a current in it’—see illustrations and map near the end of bks. v. and vi. respectively.
{5} 即“其中有电流”——参见 bks 末端附近的插图和地图。五、六。分别。

{6} Reading [Greek] for [Greek], cf. ‘Od.’ iii. 81 where the same mistake is made, and xiii. 351 where the mountain is called Neritum, the same place being intended both here and in book xiii.
{6} 为 [希腊语] 读 [希腊语]，参见‘Od。’ iii. 81 也犯了同样的错误，xiii。 351 那里的山被称为 Neritum，这里和第十三本书都指的是同一个地方。

{7} It is never plausibly explained why Penelope cannot do this, and from bk. ii. it is clear that she kept on deliberately encouraging the suitors, though we are asked to believe that she was only fooling them.
{7}从来没有合理地解释过为什么佩内洛普不能做到这一点，而且来自bk。二.很明显，她一直在故意鼓励追求者，尽管我们被要求相信她只是在愚弄他们。

{8} See note on ‘Od.’ i. 365.
{8} 请参阅“Od”的注释。 365.

{9} Middle Argos means the Peleponnese which, however, is never so called in the ‘Iliad”. I presume ‘middle’ means ‘middle between the two Greek-speaking countries of Asia Minor and Sicily, with South Italy”; for that parts of Sicily and also large parts, though not the whole of South Italy, were inhabited by Greek-speaking races centuries before the Dorian colonisations can hardly be doubted. The Sicians, and also the Sicels, both of them probably spoke Greek.
{9} 中阿尔戈斯意为伯勒奔尼撒半岛，然而，《伊利亚特》中从未如此称呼过它。我认为“中间”的意思是“小亚细亚和西西里两个希腊语国家之间，意大利南部的中间”；因为毫无疑问，西西里岛的部分地区以及意大利南部的大部分地区（尽管不是整个南意大利）早在多里安人殖民统治之前几个世纪就已经居住着希腊语种族。西西亚人，还有西塞尔人，他们都可能讲希腊语。

{10} cf. ‘Il.’ vi. 490-495. In the ‘Iliad’ it is ‘war,’ not ‘speech,’ that is a man’s matter. It argues a certain hardness, or at any rate dislike of the ‘Iliad’ on the part of the writer of the ‘Odyssey,’ that she should have adopted Hector’s farewell to Andromache here, as elsewhere in the poem, for a scene of such inferior pathos.
{10}参见。 “伊尔。”vi。 490-495。在《伊利亚特》中，是“战争”，而不是“言语”，那是人的事。它认为，《奥德赛》的作者对《伊利亚特》有一定的强硬态度，或者至少不喜欢《伊利亚特》，她应该像诗中其他地方一样，采用赫克托对安德洛玛克的告别，因为这样的场景低等的悲情。

{11} [Greek] The whole open court with the covered cloister running round it was called [Greek], or [Greek], but the covered part was distinguished by being called ‘shady’ or ‘shadow-giving”. It was in this part that the tables for the suitors were laid. The Fountain Court at Hampton Court may serve as an illustration (save as regards the use of arches instead of wooden supports and rafters) and the arrangement is still common in Sicily. The usual translation ‘shadowy’ or ‘dusky’ halls, gives a false idea of the scene.
{11} [希腊语] 整个开放的庭院及其周围有遮盖的回廊被称为[希腊]或[希腊语]，但遮盖的部分被称为“阴凉”或“提供阴影”。正是在这一部分，为追求者摆好了桌子。汉普顿宫的喷泉庭院可以作为一个例子（除了使用拱门而不是木支撑和椽子），这种布置在西西里岛仍然很常见。通常的翻译是“阴暗的”或“昏暗的”大厅，给出了对场景的错误理解。

{12} The reader will note the extreme care which the writer takes to make it clear that none of the suitors were allowed to sleep in Ulysses’ house.
{12}读者会注意到，作者非常谨慎地表明，没有一个追求者被允许在尤利西斯的房子里睡觉。

{13} See Appendix; g, in plan of Ulysses’ house.
{13}参见附录； g，尤利西斯之家的平面图。

{14} I imagine this passage to be a rejoinder to ‘Il.’ xxiii. 702-705 in which a tripod is valued at twelve oxen, and a good useful maid of all work at only four. The scrupulous regard of Laertes for his wife’s feelings is of a piece with the extreme jealousy for the honour of woman, which is manifest throughout the ‘Odyssey”.
{14}我想这段话是对“Il.”xxiii的反驳。 702-705，其中一个三脚架价值十二头牛，而一个有用的女仆只需四头牛。雷欧提斯对妻子感情的一丝不苟与对女性荣誉的极度嫉妒是一脉相承的，这一点在《奥德赛》中随处可见。

{15} [Greek] ‘The [Greek], or tunica, was a shirt or shift, and served as the chief under garment of the Greeks and Romans, whether men or women.’ Smith’s Dictionary of Greek and Roman Antiquities, under ‘Tunica”.
{15} [希腊语]“[希腊语]，或 tunica，是一件衬衫或罩衫，是希腊人和罗马人的主要内衣，无论男性还是女性。”史密斯的希腊和罗马古物词典，在“图尼卡”。

{16} Doors fastened to all intents and purposes as here described may be seen in the older houses at Trapani. There is a slot on the outer side of the door by means of which a person who has left the room can shoot the bolt. My bedroom at the Albergo Centrale was fastened in this way.
{16}在特拉帕尼的老房子中可以看到按照此处描述的所有意图和目的紧固的门。门的外侧有一个槽，离开房间的人可以通过该槽射出门闩。我在 Albergo Centrale 酒店的卧室就是这样固定的。

{17} [Greek] So we vulgarly say ‘had cooked his goose,’ or ‘had settled his hash.’ Aegyptus cannot of course know of the fate Antiphus had met with, for there had as yet been no news of or from Ulysses.
{17} [希腊语] 所以我们粗俗地说“已经煮了他的鹅”或“已经解决了他的杂乱。”埃古普托斯当然无法知道安提福斯所遭遇的命运，因为迄今为止还没有尤利西斯的消息或来自尤利西斯的消息。

{18} ‘Il.’ xxii. 416. [Greek] The authoress has bungled by borrowing these words verbatim from the ‘Iliad’, without prefixing the necessary ‘do not,’ which I have supplied.
{18}“伊尔。”xxii。 416. [希腊语]女作者从《伊利亚特》中逐字借用了这些词，而没有在我提供的必要的“不要”前面加上前缀，从而搞砸了。

{19} i.e. you have money, and could pay when I got judgment, whereas the suitors are men of straw.
{19}也就是说，你有钱，当我得到判决时你可以支付，而求婚者都是稻草人。

{20} cf. ‘Il.’ ii. 76. [Greek]. The Odyssean passage runs [Greek]. Is it possible not to suspect that the name Mentor was coined upon that of Nestor?
{20}参见。 “伊尔。”ii。 76. [希腊语]。奥德赛通道运行[希腊语]。是否有可能不怀疑“导师”这个名字是根据内斯特的名字创造的？

{21} i.e. in the outer court, and in the uncovered part of the inner house.
{21} 即在外院和内屋未遮盖的部分。

{22} This would be fair from Sicily, which was doing duty for Ithaca in the mind of the writer, but a North wind would have been preferable for a voyage from the real Ithaca to Pylos.
{22}从西西里岛出发这是公平的，在作者的心目中，西西里岛正在为伊萨卡履行职责，但对于从真正的伊萨卡到皮洛斯的航行来说，北风会更好。

{23} [Greek] The wind does not whistle over waves. It only whistles through rigging or some other obstacle that cuts it.
{23} [希腊语] 风不会吹过波浪。它只会在穿过索具或其他阻碍它的障碍物时发出口哨声。

{24} cf. ‘Il.’ v.20. [Greek] The Odyssean line is [Greek]. There can be no doubt that the Odyssean line was suggested by the Iliadic, but nothing can explain why Idaeus jumping from his chariot should suggest to the writer of the ‘Odyssey’ the sun jumping from the sea. The probability is that she never gave the matter a thought, but took the line in question as an effect of saturation with the ‘Iliad,’ and of unconscious cerebration. The ‘Odyssey’ contains many such examples.
{24}参见。 “伊尔”第 20 节。 [希腊语]奥德赛线是[希腊语]。毫无疑问，《奥德修斯》的线是由《伊利亚特》提出的，但没有什么可以解释为什么伊代俄斯从战车上跳下来应该向《奥德赛》的作者暗示太阳从海上跳下来。很可能她从未考虑过这个问题，而是将这句台词视为对《伊利亚特》的饱和和无意识思考的结果。 《奥德赛》中有很多这样的例子。

{25} The heart, liver, lights, kidneys, etc. were taken out from the inside and eaten first as being more readily cooked; the [Greek], or bone meat, was cooking while the [Greek] or inward parts were being eaten. I imagine that the thigh bones made a kind of gridiron, while at the same time the marrow inside them got cooked.
{25} 心、肝、灯、肾等从里面取出来，先吃，因为更容易煮熟；当[希腊]或骨肉正在烹饪时，[希腊]或内部部分正在被吃。我想象大腿骨形成了一种烤架，同时其中的骨髓也被煮熟了。

{26} i.e. skewers, either single, double, or even five pronged. The meat would be pierced with the skewer, and laid over the ashes to grill—the two ends of the skewer being supported in whatever way convenient. Meat so cooking may be seen in any eating house in Smyrna, or any Eastern town. When I rode across the Troad from the Dardanelles to Hissarlik and Mount Ida, I noticed that my dragoman and his men did all our outdoor cooking exactly in the Odyssean and Iliadic fashion.
{26} 即串，单叉、双叉、甚至五叉。将肉用串刺穿，然后放在灰烬上烧烤——串的两端以任何方便的方式支撑。在士麦那或任何东部城镇的任何餐馆里都可以看到这样烹饪的肉。当我从达达尼尔海峡骑马穿过小道到达希沙利克和伊达山时，我注意到我的译员和他的手下完全按照奥德修斯和伊利亚特的方式进行了所有的户外烹饪。

{27} cf. ‘Il.’ xvii. 567. [Greek] The Odyssean lines are— [Greek]
{27} 参见。 “伊尔。”十七。 567.[希腊语]奥德赛线是——[希腊语]

{28} Reading [Greek] for [Greek], cf. ‘Od.’ i.186.
{28} 为 [希腊语] 读 [希腊语]，参见‘Od.’i.186。

{29} The geography of the Aegean as above described is correct, but is probably taken from the lost poem, the Nosti, the existence of which is referred to ‘Od.’ i.326,327 and 350, etc. A glance at the map will show that heaven advised its supplicants quite correctly.
{29}上述爱琴海的地理是正确的，但可能取自失传的诗《Nosti》，其存在被称为“Od”。i.326,327 和 350 等。地图一览将表明上天对它的祈求者的建议是非常正确的。

{30} The writer—ever jealous for the honour of women—extenuates Clytemnestra’s guilt as far as possible, and explains it as due to her having been left unprotected, and fallen into the hands of a wicked man.
{30}作者——永远嫉妒女性的荣誉——尽可能地减轻了克吕泰涅斯特拉的罪责，并解释说这是因为她没有受到保护，落入了一个邪恶男人的手中。

{31} The Greek is [Greek] cf. ‘Iliad’ ii. 408 [Greek] Surely the [Greek] of the Odyssean passage was due to the [Greek] of the ‘Iliad.’ No other reason suggests itself for the making Menelaus return on the very day of the feast given by Orestes. The fact that in the ‘Iliad’ Menelaus came to a banquet without waiting for an invitation, determines the writer of the ‘Odyssey’ to make him come to a banquet, also uninvited, but as circumstances did not permit of his having been invited, his coming uninvited is shown to have been due to chance. I do not think the authoress thought all this out, but attribute the strangeness of the coincidence to unconscious cerebration and saturation.
{31}希腊语是[希腊语]参见。 《伊利亚特》二． 408 [希腊语] 奥德修斯段落的[希腊语]肯定是由于《伊利亚特》的[希腊语]。没有其他原因表明墨涅拉俄斯在奥瑞斯忒斯举行的盛宴当天回来。在《伊利亚特》中，墨涅拉俄斯没有等待邀请就参加了宴会，这一事实决定了《奥德赛》的作者让他也没有受到邀请就参加了宴会，但由于情况不允许他被邀请，他的不请自来被证明是出于偶然。我认为作者并没有考虑到这一切，而是将这种巧合的奇怪性归因于无意识的思考和饱和。

{32} cf. ‘Il.’ i.458, ii. 421. The writer here interrupts an Iliadic passage (to which she returns immediately) for the double purpose of dwelling upon the slaughter of the heifer, and of letting Nestor’s wife and daughter enjoy it also. A male writer, if he was borrowing from the ‘Iliad,’ would have stuck to his borrowing.
{32}参见。 ‘伊尔。’i.458，ii。 421.作者在这里打断了一段《伊利亚特》的段落（她立即返回），其目的有两个：一是详述小母牛的屠宰，二是让内斯特的妻子和女儿也享受这一过程。一位男性作家，如果他借用《伊利亚特》，他就会坚持借用。

{33} cf. ‘Il.’ xxiv. 587,588 where the lines refer to the washing the dead body of Hector.
{33} 参见。 “伊尔。”二十四。 587,588，其中的线条指的是清洗赫克托的尸体。

{34} See illustration on opposite page. The yard is typical of many that may be seen in Sicily. The existing ground-plan is probably unmodified from Odyssean, and indeed long pre-Odyssean times, but the earlier buildings would have no arches, and would, one would suppose, be mainly timber. The Odyssean [Greek] were the sheds that ran round the yard as the arches do now. The [Greek] was the one through which the main entrance passed, and which was hence ‘noisy,’ or reverberating. It had an upper story in which visitors were often lodged.
{34} 请参阅对页插图。这个院子是西西里岛常见的许多院子的典型。现有的平面图可能没有经过奥德赛时期的修改，实际上是在奥德赛之前的很长一段时间里，但早期的建筑没有拱门，人们认为，主要是木材。奥德修斯（希腊语）是围绕院子的棚屋，就像现在的拱门一样。 [希腊]是主入口所经过的地方，因此很“吵闹”，或者说有回响。它有一个上层，经常有访客住宿。

{35} This journey is an impossible one. Telemachus and Pisistratus would have been obliged to drive over the Taygetus range, over which there has never yet been a road for wheeled vehicles. It is plain therefore that the audience for whom the ‘Odyssey’ was written was one that would be unlikely to know anything about the topography of the Peloponnese, so that the writer might take what liberties she chose.
{35}这一旅程是不可能的。忒勒马科斯和皮西斯特拉图斯必须驾车越过泰格图斯山脉，那里还从未有过轮式车辆的道路。因此，很明显，《奥德赛》的读者不太可能了解伯罗奔尼撒半岛的地形，因此作者可以自由选择。

{36} The lines which I have enclosed in brackets are evidently an afterthought—added probably by the writer herself—for they evince the same instinctively greater interest in anything that may concern a woman, which is so noticeable throughout the poem. There is no further sign of any special festivities nor of any other guests than Telemachus and Pisistratus, until lines 621-624 (ordinarily enclosed in brackets) are abruptly introduced, probably with a view of trying to carry off the introduction of the lines now in question.
{36}我用括号括起来的诗句显然是事后的想法——可能是作者自己添加的——因为它们表现出对任何可能与女人有关的事物同样本能的更大兴趣，这在整首诗中都很明显。除了特勒马科斯和庇西斯特拉图斯之外，没有任何特殊庆祝活动的进一步迹象，也没有任何其他客人的迹象，直到突然引入第 621-624 行（通常用括号括起来），可能是为了试图将现在的这些行引入。问题。

The addition was, I imagine, suggested by a desire to excuse and explain the non-appearance of Hermione in bk. xv., as also of both Hermione and Megapenthes in the rest of bk. iv. Megapenthes in bk. xv. seems to be still a bachelor: the presumption therefore is that bk. xv. was written before the story of his marriage here given. I take it he is only married here because his sister is being married. She having been properly attended to, Megapenthes might as well be married at the same time. Hermione could not now be less than thirty.
我想，添加这一内容是为了借口和解释赫敏在黑色中的缺席。 xv.，以及 bk 其余部分中的 Hermione 和 Megapenthes。四.大彭西斯在 bk。十五.似乎仍然是单身汉：因此推测是单身汉。十五.这篇文章写于他的婚姻故事之前。我认为他在这里结婚只是因为他的妹妹要结婚。如果梅加彭特斯得到了妥善的照顾，她还不如同时结婚呢。赫敏现在不可能少于三十岁。

I have dealt with this passage somewhat more fully in my ‘Authoress of the Odyssey’, p.136-138. See also p. 256 of the same book.
我在《奥德赛的女作者》第 136-138 页中更全面地讨论了这段话。另请参见第 17 页。同一本书的256页。

{37} Sparta and Lacedaemon are here treated as two different places, though in other parts of the poem it is clear that the writer understands them as one. The catalogue in the ‘Iliad,’ which the writer is here presumably following, makes the same mistake (“Il.’ ii. 581,582)
{37}斯巴达和拉栖代梦在这里被视为两个不同的地方，尽管在这首诗的其他部分，作者显然将它们理解为一个地方。作者在这里可能遵循的《伊利亚特》中的目录也犯了同样的错误（“Il.”ii. 581,582）

{38} These last three lines are identical with ‘Il.’ vxiii. 604-606.
{38} 最后三行与“Il.”vxiii 相同。 604-606。

{39} From the Greek [Greek] it is plain that Menelaus took up the piece of meat with his fingers.
{39}从希腊语[希腊语]可以看出，墨涅拉俄斯用手指拿起了这块肉。

{40} Amber is never mentioned in the ‘Iliad.’ Sicily, where I suppose the ‘Odyssey’ to have been written, has always been, and still is, one of the principal amber producing countries. It was probably the only one known in the Odyssean age. See ‘The Authoress of the Odyssey’, p260.
{40}《伊利亚特》中从未提到过琥珀。我认为《奥德赛》就是在那里写成的西西里岛，一直是、现在仍然是主要的琥珀生产国之一。它可能是奥德赛时代唯一已知的。参见《奥德赛的女作者》，第 260 页。

{41} This no doubt refers to the story told in the last poem of the Cypria about Paris and Helen robbing Menelaus of the greater part of his treasures, when they sailed together for Troy.
{41}这无疑是指《西普里亚》最后一首诗中讲述的故事，讲述的是当巴黎和海伦一起航行前往特洛伊时，他们抢走了墨涅拉俄斯的大部分财宝。

{42} It is inconceivable that Helen should enter thus, in the middle of supper, intending to work with her distaff, if great festivities were going on. Telemachus and Pisistratus are evidently dining en famille.
{42}如果正在进行盛大的庆祝活动，海伦在晚餐时就这样进来，打算与她的工作人员一起工作，这是不可思议的。忒勒马科斯和皮西斯特拉图斯显然正在全家用餐。

{43} In the Italian insurrection of 1848, eight young men who were being hotly pursued by the Austrian police hid themselves inside Donatello’s colossal wooden horse in the Salone at Padua, and remained there for a week being fed by their confederates. In 1898 the last survivor was carried round Padua in triumph.
{43}在1848年的意大利起义中，八名被奥地利警察紧追不舍的年轻人躲在帕多瓦沙龙多纳泰罗的巨大木马上，并在那里待了一周，由他们的同伙喂食。 1898 年，最后一位幸存者被凯旋地环绕帕多瓦。

{44} The Greek is [Greek]. Is it unfair to argue that the writer is a person of somewhat delicate sensibility, to whom a strong smell of fish is distasteful?
{44}希腊语是[希腊语]。说作者是一个感情比较敏感的人，不喜欢浓重的鱼腥味，这是否不公平？

{45} The Greek is [Greek]. I believe this to be a hit at the writer’s own countrymen who were of Phocaean descent, and the next following line to be a rejoinder to complaints made against her in bk. vi. 273-288, to the effect that she gave herself airs and would marry none of her own people. For that the writer of the ‘Odyssey’ was the person who has been introduced into the poem under the name of Nausicaa, I cannot bring myself to question. I may remind English readers that [Greek] (i.e. phoca) means ‘seal.’ Seals almost always appear on Phocaean coins.
{45}希腊语是[希腊语]。我相信这对作者自己的福西亚血统同胞来说是一个打击，接下来的一行是对英国对她的抱怨的反驳。六. 273-288，大意是她摆架子，不会与任何自己的人结婚。因为《奥德赛》的作者就是以娜乌西卡的名字出现在这首诗中的人，我无法质疑。我可能会提醒英国读者，[希腊语]（即 phoca）的意思是“印章”。印章几乎总是出现在 Phocaean 硬币上。

{46} Surely here again we are in the hands of a writer of delicate sensibility. It is not as though the seals were stale; they had only just been killed. The writer, however is obviously laughing at her own countrymen, and insulting them as openly as she dares.
{46}毫无疑问，我们再次处于一位敏感细腻的作家的手中。封印并不是陈旧的，而是陈旧的。他们刚刚被杀。然而，作者显然是在嘲笑她自己的同胞，并尽可能公开地侮辱他们。

{47} We were told above (lines 357,357) that it was only one day’s sail.
{47}上面（第 357,357 行）告诉我们，这只是一天的航行。

{48} I give the usual translation, but I do not believe the Greek will warrant it. The Greek reads [Greek].
{48}我给出了通常的翻译，但我不相信希腊语会保证它。希腊语读作[希腊语]。

This is usually held to mean that Ithaca is an island fit for breeding goats, and on that account more delectable to the speaker than it would have been if it were fit for breeding horses. I find little authority for such a translation; the most equitable translation of the text as it stands is, ‘Ithaca is an island fit for breeding goats, and delectable rather than fit for breeding horses; for not one of the islands is good driving ground, nor well meadowed.’ Surely the writer does not mean that a pleasant or delectable island would not be fit for breeding horses? The most equitable translation, therefore, of the present text being thus halt and impotent, we may suspect corruption, and I hazard the following emendation, though I have not adopted it in my translation, as fearing that it would be deemed too fanciful. I would read:—[Greek].
这通常被认为意味着伊萨卡岛是一个适合饲养山羊的岛屿，因此对说话者来说比适合饲养马匹的岛屿更令人愉快。我发现这样的翻译没有什么权威。对文本最公平的翻译是，“伊萨卡是一个适合饲养山羊的岛屿，而且很美味，但不适合饲养马匹；”因为没有一个岛屿是良好的驾车场地，也没有一个良好的草地。”作者当然不是说一个令人愉快或美味的岛屿不适合饲养马匹吗？因此，对当前文本的最公平的翻译是如此停止和无能，我们可能会怀疑腐败，并且我冒险进行以下修改，尽管我没有在我的翻译中采用它，因为担心它会被认为太异想天开。我会读：——[希腊语]。

As far as scanning goes the [Greek] is not necessary; [Greek] iv. 72, [Greek] iv. 233, to go no further afield than earlier lines of the same book, give sufficient authority for [Greek], but the [Greek] would not be redundant; it would emphasise the surprise of the contrast, and I should prefer to have it, though it is not very important either way. This reading of course should be translated ‘Ithaca is an island fit for breeding goats, and (by your leave) itself a horseman rather than fit for breeding horses—for not one of the islands is good and well meadowed ground.’
就扫描而言，[希腊语]是不必要的； [希腊语] iv. 72，[希腊语] iv。 233、不要超出同一本书的前几行，给予[希腊语]足够的权威，但[希腊语]不会是多余的；它会强调对比的惊喜，我应该更喜欢它，尽管这两种方式都不是很重要。当然，这篇文章应该翻译成“伊萨卡岛是一个适合饲养山羊的岛屿，而且（请允许）它本身是一个骑手，而不适合饲养马匹——因为没有一个岛屿是良好的、有良好的草地的。”

This would be sure to baffle the Alexandrian editors. ‘How,’ they would ask themselves, ‘could an island be a horseman?’ and they would cast about for an emendation. A visit to the top of Mt. Eryx might perhaps make the meaning intelligible, and suggest my proposed restoration of the text to the reader as readily as it did to myself.
这肯定会让亚历山大的编辑感到困惑。他们会问自己：“一座岛屿怎么可能成为一名骑士？”然后他们就会四处寻找修正方案。访问埃里克斯山的山顶也许可以使含义变得可理解，并建议我向读者恢复文本，就像对我自己一样容易。

I have elsewhere stated my conviction that the writer of the ‘Odyssey’ was familiar with the old Sican city at the top of Mt. Eryx, and that the Aegadean islands which are so striking when seen thence did duty with her for the Ionian islands—Marettimo, the highest and most westerly of the group, standing for Ithaca. When seen from the top of Mt. Eryx Marettimo shows as it should do according to ‘Od.’ ix. 25,26, ‘on the horizon, all highest up in the sea towards the West,’ while the other islands lie ‘some way off it to the East.’ As we descend to Trapani, Marettimo appears to sink on to the top of the island of Levanzo, behind which it disappears. My friend, the late Signor E. Biaggini, pointed to it once as it was just standing on the top of Levanzo, and said to me ‘Come cavalca bene’ (“How well it rides’), and this immediately suggested my emendation to me. Later on I found in the hymn to the Pythian Apollo (which abounds with tags taken from the ‘Odyssey’) a line ending [Greek] which strengthened my suspicion that this was the original ending of the second of the two lines above under consideration.
我曾在别处说过，我相信《奥德赛》的作者熟悉埃里克斯山山顶的西坎古城，从那里看到的埃加德群岛是如此引人注目，她对爱奥尼亚群岛负有责任——马雷蒂莫 (Marettimo) 是这群山中最高、最西的一座，代表伊萨卡 (Ithaca)。当从 Mt. Eryx Marettimo 山顶看去时，Marettimo 的表现符合“Od.”ix 的要求。 25,26，“在地平线上，所有岛屿都在西边的海上最高处”，而其他岛屿“在东边有一段距离”。当我们下降到特拉帕尼时，马雷蒂莫似乎沉入了莱万佐岛，它消失在岛后面。我的朋友，已故的 E. Biaggini 先生，有一次当它站在莱万佐山顶时，他指着它对我说：“Come cavalca bene”（“它骑得多好”），这立即建议我修改为我。后来，我在皮提亚阿波罗的赞美诗（其中充满了取自《奥德赛》的标签）中发现了一行以[希腊语]结尾的行，这更加坚定了我的怀疑，即这是上面所考虑的两行中第二行的原始结尾。

{49} See note on line 3 of this book. The reader will observe that the writer has been unable to keep the women out of an interpolation consisting only of four lines.
{49}请参阅本书第 3 行的注释。读者会发现，作者无法将女性排除在仅由四行组成的插入之外。

{50} Scheria means a piece of land jutting out into the sea. In my ‘Authoress of the Odyssey’ I thought ‘Jutland’ would be a suitable translation, but it has been pointed out to me that ‘Jutland’ only means the land of the Jutes.
{50}Scheria 的意思是一块伸入大海的土地。在我的《奥德赛女作家》中，我认为“日德兰”是一个合适的翻译，但有人向我指出，“日德兰”仅意味着朱特人的土地。

{51} Irrigation as here described is common in gardens near Trapani. The water that supplies the ducts is drawn from wells by a mule who turns a wheel with buckets on it.
{51}此处描述的灌溉在特拉帕尼附近的花园中很常见。供应管道的水是由骡子从井中抽取的，骡子转动带有水桶的轮子。

{52} There is not a word here about the cattle of the sun-god.
{52}这里没有提到太阳神的牲畜。

{53} The writer evidently thought that green, growing wood might also be well seasoned.
{53}作者显然认为绿色的、正在生长的木材也可能经过很好的风干。

{54} The reader will note that the river was flowing with salt water i.e. that it was tidal.
{54}读者会注意到这条河流淌着咸水，即它是潮汐的。

{55} Then the Ogygian island was not so far off, but that Nausicaa might be assumed to know where it was.
{55}那么奥吉吉亚岛离我们并不远，但可以假设娜乌西卡知道它在哪里。

{56} Greek [Greek]
{56} 希腊语 [希腊语]

{57} I suspect a family joke, or sly allusion to some thing of which we know nothing, in this story of Eurymedusa’s having been brought from Apeira. The Greek word ‘apeiros’ means ‘inexperienced,’ ‘ignorant.’ Is it possible that Eurymedusa was notoriously incompetent?
{57}我怀疑这个关于尤律美杜莎从阿佩拉带来的故事是一个家庭笑话，或者是对我们一无所知的事情的狡猾暗示。希腊语“apeiros”的意思是“缺乏经验”、“无知”。Eurymedusa 是否可能是出了名的无能？

{58} Polyphemus was also son to Neptune, see ‘Od.’ ix. 412,529. he was therefore half brother to Nausithous, half uncle to King Alcinous, and half great uncle to Nausicaa.
{58}波吕斐摩斯也是海王星的儿子，见“Od”。 ix。 412,529。因此，他是瑙西索斯同父异母的兄弟、阿尔西诺斯国王同​​父异母的叔叔、娜乌西卡同父异母的叔父。

{59} It would seem as though the writer thought that Marathon was close to Athens.
{59} 看来作者认为马拉松离雅典很近。

{60} Here the writer, knowing that she is drawing (with embellishments) from things actually existing, becomes impatient of past tenses and slides into the present.
{60}在这里，作者知道她正在从实际存在的事物中绘画（带有修饰），因此对过去时态变得不耐烦并滑入现在。

{61} This is hidden malice, implying that the Phaeacian magnates were no better than they should be. The final drink-offering should have been made to Jove or Neptune, not to the god of thievishness and rascality of all kinds. In line 164 we do indeed find Echeneus proposing that a drink-offering should be made to Jove, but Mercury is evidently, according to our authoress, the god who was most likely to be of use to them.
{61}这是隐藏的恶意，暗示菲亚克的权贵们并没有比他们应该做的更好。最后的奠酒应该献给朱庇特或海王星，而不是献给各种盗窃和恶棍之神。在第 164 行中，我们确实发现 Echeneus 提议应该向朱庇特献上奠祭，但根据我们的作者的说法，水星显然是最有可能对他们有用的神。

{62} The fact of Alcinous knowing anything about the Cyclopes suggests that in the writer’s mind Scheria and the country of the Cyclopes were not very far from one another. I take the Cyclopes and the giants to be one and the same people.
{62}阿尔西努斯对独眼巨人一无所知的事实表明，在作者的心目中，谢里亚和独眼巨人的国家彼此相距并不远。我认为独眼巨人和巨人是同一个人。

{63} ‘My property, etc.’ The authoress is here adopting an Iliadic line (xix. 333), and this must account for the absence of all reference to Penelope. If she had happened to remember ‘Il.’ v.213, she would doubtless have appropriated it by preference, for that line reads ‘my country, my wife, and all the greatness of my house.’
{63}“我的财产等。”作者在这里采用了伊利亚特诗句（xix.333），这必须解释为什么没有提到佩内洛普。如果她碰巧记得《伊尔》第213节，她无疑会优先使用它，因为这句话写着“我的国家，我的妻子，以及我家的所有伟大之处”。

{64} The at first inexplicable sleep of Ulysses (bk. xiii. 79, etc.) is here, as also in viii. 445, being obviously prepared. The writer evidently attached the utmost importance to it. Those who know that the harbour which did duty with the writer of the ‘Odyssey’ for the one in which Ulysses landed in Ithaca, was only about 2 miles from the place in which Ulysses is now talking with Alcinous, will understand why the sleep was so necessary.
{64}尤利西斯的第一次莫名其妙的睡眠（bk.xiii.79等）就在这里，也在viii中。 445，显然是有准备的。可见作者对这一点极为重视。那些知道《奥德赛》的作者在伊萨卡岛登陆的港口距离尤利西斯现在与阿尔西诺斯交谈的地方只有大约 2 英里的人，就会明白为什么睡眠是这样的。如此必要。

{65} There were two classes—the lower who were found in provisions which they had to cook for themselves in the yards and outer precincts, where they would also eat—and the upper who would eat in the cloisters of the inner court, and have their cooking done for them.
{65}有两个阶级——下层阶级的人必须在院子和外院为自己做饭，他们也在那里吃饭——而上层阶级则在内院的回廊里吃饭，为他们做饭。

{66} Translation very dubious. I suppose the [Greek] here to be the covered sheds that ran round the outer courtyard. See illustrations at the end of bk. iii.
{66}翻译非常可疑。我想这里的[希腊语]是指围绕外院的有顶棚的棚屋。请参阅 bk 末尾的插图。三.

{67} The writer apparently deems that the words ‘as compared with what oxen can plough in the same time’ go without saying. Not so the writer of the ‘Iliad’ from which the Odyssean passage is probably taken. He explains that mules can plough quicker than oxen (“Il.’ x.351-353)
{67}作者显然认为“与牛在同一时间可以犁地相比”这句话是不言而喻的。 《伊利亚特》的作者则不然，奥德修斯的段落可能取自《伊利亚特》。他解释说骡子比牛犁地更快（“Il.”x.351-353）

{68} It was very fortunate that such a disc happened to be there, seeing that none like it were in common use.
{68}非常幸运的是，这样的光盘碰巧在那里，因为没有类似的光盘被普遍使用。

{69} ‘Il.’ xiii. 37. Here, as so often elsewhere in the ‘Odyssey,’ the appropriation of an Iliadic line which is not quite appropriate puzzles the reader. The ‘they’ is not the chains, nor yet Mars and Venus. It is an overflow from the Iliadic passage in which Neptune hobbles his horses in bonds ‘which none could either unloose or break so that they might stay there in that place.’ If the line would have scanned without the addition of the words ‘so that they might stay there in that place,’ they would have been omitted in the ‘Odyssey.’
{69}“伊尔。”十三。 37. 正如《奥德赛》其他地方经常出现的那样，这里对伊利亚特诗句的挪用并不十分恰当，这让读者感到困惑。 “他们”不是锁链，也不是火星和金星。这是《伊利亚特》段落的溢出，其中海王星用束缚束缚着他的马，“没有人能够松开或打破束缚，这样它们就可以留在那个地方。”如果这行扫描时没有添加“这样”的话他们可能会留在那个地方，”他们会在《奥德赛》中被省略。

{70} The reader will note that Alcinous never goes beyond saying that he is going to give the goblet; he never gives it. Elsewhere in both ‘Iliad’ and ‘Odyssey’ the offer of a present is immediately followed by the statement that it was given and received gladly—Alcinous actually does give a chest and a cloak and shirt—probably also some of the corn and wine for the long two-mile voyage was provided by him—but it is quite plain that he gave no talent and no cup.
{70}读者会注意到，阿尔西努斯从未说过他要递出高脚杯；他从来不给。在《伊利亚特》和《奥德赛》的其他地方，在提供礼物之后，紧接着就说礼物被给予并很高兴地收到了——阿尔西诺斯实际上确实给了一个箱子、一件斗篷和衬衫——可能还有一些玉米和酒两英里的长途航行是他提供的——但很明显，他没有提供任何才能，也没有提供任何奖杯。

{71} ‘Il.’ xviii, 344-349. These lines in the ‘Iliad’ tell of the preparation for washing the body of Patroclus, and I am not pleased that the writer of the ‘Odyssey’ should have adopted them here.
{71}《伊尔》十八，344-349。 《伊利亚特》中的这些诗句讲述了为帕特罗克洛斯清洗身体的准备工作，我很不高兴《奥德赛》的作者在这里采用了它们。

{72} see note {64}
{72}参见注释{64}

{73} see note {43}
{73}参见注释{43}

{74} The reader will find this threat fulfilled in bk. xiii
{74}读者会发现这个威胁在 bk 中得到了实现。十三

{75} If the other islands lay some distance away from Ithaca (which the word [Greek] suggests), what becomes of the [Greek] or gut between Ithaca and Samos which we hear of in Bks. iv. and xv.? I suspect that the authoress in her mind makes Telemachus come back from Pylos to the Lilybaean promontory and thence to Trapani through the strait between the Isola Grande and the mainland—the island of Asteria being the one on which Motya afterwards stood.
{75}如果其他岛屿距伊萨卡岛有一定距离（[希腊语]一词所暗示的），那么我们在希腊语中听到的伊萨卡岛和萨摩斯岛之间的[希腊语]或肠道会变成什么样子。四.和十五。？我怀疑，在她的脑海里，女作家让忒勒马科斯从皮洛斯回到利利拜海角，然后穿过格兰德岛和大陆之间的海峡到达特拉帕尼——阿斯特里亚岛就是后来莫蒂亚所在的岛屿。

{76} ‘Il.’ xviii. 533-534. The sudden lapse into the third person here for a couple of lines is due to the fact that the two Iliadic lines taken are in the third person.
{76}“伊尔。”十八。 533-534。这里有几行突然变成第三人称，是因为伊利亚特的两行都是第三人称。

{77} cf. ‘Il.’ ii. 776. The words in both ‘Iliad’ and ‘Odyssey’ are [Greek]. In the ‘Iliad’ they are used of the horses of Achilles’ followers as they stood idle, ‘champing lotus.’
{77} 参见。 “伊尔。”ii。 776. 《伊利亚特》和《奥德赛》中的词都是[希腊语]。在《伊利亚特》中，它们被用来指阿喀琉斯追随者的马匹，它们闲着，“拥着莲花”。

{78} I take all this passage about the Cyclopes having no ships to be sarcastic—meaning, ‘You people of Drepanum have no excuse for not colonising the island of Favognana, which you could easily do, for you have plenty of ships, and the island is a very good one.’ For that the island so fully described here is the Aegadean or ‘goat’ island of Favognana, and that the Cyclopes are the old Sican inhabitants of Mt. Eryx should not be doubted.
{78}我把所有关于独眼巨人没有船只的这段话视为讽刺，意思是，“德雷帕努姆的人民没有理由不殖民法沃尼亚纳岛，这是你们可以轻松做到的，因为你们有很多船只，而且因为这里所描述的这座岛屿是法沃尼亚纳的埃加德岛或“山羊”岛，而独眼巨人是埃里克斯山的古老西坎居民，这一点是不容置疑的。

{79} For the reasons why it was necessary that the night should be so exceptionally dark see ‘The Authoress of the Odyssey’ pp. 188-189.
{79} 至于为什么夜晚必须如此黑暗，请参阅《奥德赛的女作者》第 188-189 页。

{80} None but such lambs as would suck if they were with their mothers would be left in the yard. The older lambs should have been out feeding. The authoress has got it all wrong, but it does not matter. See ‘The Authoress of the Odyssey’ p.148.
{80}除了那些与母亲在一起会吃奶的羔羊之外，没有其他羔羊会被留在院子里。年长的羔羊应该出去吃草了。女作者完全错了，但这并不重要。参见《奥德赛的女作者》第 148 页。

{81} This line is enclosed in brackets in the received text, and is omitted (with note) by Messrs. Butcher & Lang. But lines enclosed in brackets are almost always genuine; all that brackets mean is that the bracketed passage puzzled some early editor, who nevertheless found it too well established in the text to venture on omitting it. In the present case the line bracketed is the very last which a full-grown male editor would be likely to interpolate. It is safer to infer that the writer, a young woman, not knowing or caring at which end of the ship the rudder should be, determined to make sure by placing it at both ends, which we shall find she presently does by repeating it (line 340) at the stern of the ship. As for the two rocks thrown, the first I take to be the Asinelli, see map facing p.80. The second I see as the two contiguous islands of the Formiche, which are treated as one, see map facing p.108. The Asinelli is an island shaped like a boat, and pointing to the island of Favognana. I think the authoress’s compatriots, who probably did not like her much better that she did them, jeered at the absurdity of Ulysses’ conduct, and saw the Asinelli or ‘donkeys,’ not as the rock thrown by Polyphemus, but as the boat itself containing Ulysses and his men.
{81} 此行在收到的文本中用括号括起来，并被 Messrs. Butcher & Lang 省略（带注释）。但括号内的线条几乎总是真实的；括号的全部意思是，括号内的段落让一些早期的编辑感到困惑，但他们发现它在文本中已经非常明确，无法冒险省略它。在本例中，括号内的行是成年男性编辑可能会插入的最后一行。更安全的推断是，作者是一位年轻女子，不知道也不关心舵应该放在船的哪一端，决心通过将舵放在两端来确定，我们将发现她现在通过重复它来做到这一点（第 340 行）位于船尾。至于扔出的两块石头，我认为第一块是 Asinelli，参见第 80 页的地图。第二个我认为是福尔米切的两个相邻岛屿，它们被视为一个，见第 108 页的地图。阿西内利岛是一座形状像船的岛屿，指向法沃尼亚纳岛。我认为女作者的同胞们可能并不喜欢她，他们嘲笑《尤利西斯》的荒谬行为，并认为阿西内利或“驴子”不是波吕斐摩斯投掷的岩石，而是船本身里面有尤利西斯和他的部下。

{82} This line exists in the text here but not in the corresponding passage xii. 141. I am inclined to think it is interpolated (probably by the poetess herself) from the first of lines xi. 115-137, which I can hardly doubt were added by the writer when the scheme of the work was enlarged and altered. See ‘The Authoress of the Odyssey’ pp. 254-255.
{82} 此行存在于此处的文本中，但不存在于相应的段落 xii 中。 141. 我倾向于认为它是从第 xi 行第一行插入的（可能是女诗人本人）。 115-137，我几乎可以怀疑这是作者在扩大和改变作品的方案时添加的。参见《奥德赛的女作者》第 254-255 页。

{83} ‘Floating’ ([Greek]) is not to be taken literally. The island itself, as apart from its inhabitants, was quite normal. There is no indication of its moving during the month that Ulysses stayed with Aeolus, and on his return from his unfortunate voyage, he seems to have found it in the same place. The [Greek] in fact should no more be pressed than [Greek] as applied to islands, ‘Odyssey’ xv. 299—where they are called ‘flying’ because the ship would fly past them. So also the ‘Wanderers,’ as explained by Buttmann; see note on ‘Odyssey’ xii. 57.
{83} “浮动”（[希腊语]）不能按字面意思理解。除了岛上的居民之外，这座岛本身是很正常的。没有迹象表明它在尤利西斯与风神呆在一起的那个月里移动过，而当他从不幸的航行中回来时，他似乎在同一个地方找到了它。事实上，[希腊语]不应该比应用于岛屿的[希腊语]更受压迫，《奥德赛》xv。 299——他们被称为“飞行”，因为船会飞过他们。正如布特曼所解释的那样，“流浪者”也是如此；参见“奥德赛”xii 的注释。 57.

{84} Literally ‘for the ways of the night and of the day are near.’ I have seen what Mr. Andrew Lang says (“Homer and the Epic,’ p.236, and ‘Longman’s Magazine’ for January, 1898, p.277) about the ‘amber route’ and the ‘Sacred Way’ in this connection; but until he gives his grounds for holding that the Mediterranean peoples in the Odyssean age used to go far North for their amber instead of getting it in Sicily, where it is still found in considerable quantities, I do not know what weight I ought to attach to his opinion. I have been unable to find grounds for asserting that B.C. 1000 there was any commerce between the Mediterranean and the ‘Far North,’ but I shall be very ready to learn if Mr. Lang will enlighten me. See ‘The Authoress of the Odyssey’ pp. 185-186.
{84}字面意思是“因为黑夜和白昼的方式已经临近。”我已经看到安德鲁·朗先生所说的（“荷马和史诗”，第236页，以及1898年1月的“朗文杂志”， p.277）关于这方面的“琥珀之路”和“神圣之路”；但直到他给出了他的理由，认为奥德赛时代的地中海人民过去常常到遥远的北方去获取琥珀，而不是在西西里岛获取琥珀，在那里仍然发现了大量的琥珀，我不知道我应该给予什么重视以他的意见。我一直无法找到断言 BC 的理由。 1000年，地中海和“极北地区”之间有任何贸易，但如果朗先生愿意启发我，我将很乐意了解。参见《奥德赛的女作者》第 185-186 页。

{85} One would have thought that when the sun was driving the stag down to the water, Ulysses might have observed its whereabouts.
{85}人们会认为，当太阳将雄鹿赶入水中时，尤利西斯可能已经观察到了它的行踪。

{86} See Hobbes of Malmesbury’s translation.
{86}参见马姆斯伯里的霍布斯的翻译。

{87} ‘Il.’ vxiii. 349. Again the writer draws from the washing the body of Patroclus—which offends.
{87}“伊尔。”vxiii。 349. 作者再次从帕特罗​​克洛斯的清洗身体中汲取灵感——这令人冒犯。

{88} This visit is wholly without topographical significance.
{88} 这次访问完全没有地形意义。

{89} Brides presented themselves instinctively to the imagination of the writer, as the phase of humanity which she found most interesting.
{89}新娘本能地将自己呈现在作家的想象中，作为她认为最有趣的人类阶段。

{90} Ulysses was, in fact, to become a missionary and preach Neptune to people who knew not his name. I was fortunate enough to meet in Sicily a woman carrying one of these winnowing shovels; it was not much shorter than an oar, and I was able at once to see what the writer of the ‘Odyssey’ intended.
{90} 事实上，尤利西斯要成为一名传教士，向那些不知道他名字的人传播海王星。我很幸运在西西里岛遇到了一位拿着这种扬谷铲的女人；它比桨短不了多少，我立刻明白了《奥德赛》作者的意图。

{91} I suppose the lines I have enclosed in brackets to have been added by the author when she enlarged her original scheme by the addition of books i.-iv. and xiii. (from line 187)-xxiv. The reader will observe that in the corresponding passage (xii. 137-141) the prophecy ends with ‘after losing all your comrades,’ and that there is no allusion to the suitors. For fuller explanation see ‘The Authoress of the Odyssey’ pp. 254-255.
{91}我认为我在括号中括起来的行是作者在通过添加书籍 i.-iv 来扩大其原始计划时添加的。和十三。 （来自第 187 行）-xxiv。读者会注意到，在相应的段落（xii.137-141）中，预言以“失去所有同志后”结尾，并且没有提及追求者。更完整的解释请参见《奥德赛的女作者》第 254-255 页。

{92} The reader will remember that we are in the first year of Ulysses’ wanderings, Telemachus therefore was only eleven years old. The same anachronism is made later on in this book. See ‘The Authoress of the Odyssey’ pp. 132-133.
{92}读者会记得，我们正处于尤利西斯流浪的第一年，因此特勒马科斯只有十一岁。本书后面也出现了同样的不合时宜的情况。参见《奥德赛的女作者》第 132-133 页。

{93} Tradition says that she had hanged herself. Cf. ‘Odyssey’ xv. 355, etc.
{93} 传统上说她是上吊自杀的。比照。 《奥德赛》十五。 355等

{94} Not to be confounded with Aeolus king of the winds.
{94} 不要与风王埃俄罗斯混淆。

{95} Melampus, vide book xv. 223, etc.
{95}Melampus，视频书 xv。 223等

{96} I have already said in a note on bk. xi. 186 that at this point of Ulysses’ voyage Telemachus could only be between eleven and twelve years old.
{96}我已经在bk的注释中说过了。 xi. 186 在尤利西斯航行的此时，忒勒马科斯可能只有十一岁到十二岁之间。

{97} Is the writer a man or a woman?
{97} 作者是男性还是女性？

{98} Cf. ‘Il.’ iv. 521, [Greek]. The Odyssean line reads, [Greek]. The famous dactylism, therefore, of the Odyssean line was probably suggested by that of the Ileadic rather than by a desire to accommodate sound to sense. At any rate the double coincidence of a dactylic line, and an ending [Greek], seems conclusive as to the familiarity of the writer of the ‘Odyssey’ with the Iliadic line.
{98} 参见。 “伊尔。”四。 521，[希腊语]。奥德赛行写着，[希腊语]。因此，奥德修斯语系中著名的指法可能是由伊莱德语的指法所暗示的，而不是出于使声音适应感觉的愿望。无论如何，指节线和结尾[希腊语]的双重巧合似乎可以确定《奥德赛》的作者对伊利亚特线的熟悉程度。

{99} Off the coast of Sicily and South Italy, in the month of May, I have seen men fastened half way up a boat’s mast with their feet resting on a crosspiece, just large enough to support them. From this point of vantage they spear sword-fish. When I saw men thus employed I could hardly doubt that the writer of the ‘Odyssey’ had seen others like them, and had them in her mind when describing the binding of Ulysses. I have therefore with some diffidence ventured to depart from the received translation of [Greek] (cf. Alcaeus frag. 18, where, however, it is very hard to say what [Greek] means). In Sophocles’ Lexicon I find a reference to Chrysostom (l, 242, A. Ed. Benedictine Paris 1834-1839) for the word [Greek], which is probably the same as [Greek], but I have looked for the passage in vain.
{99}在五月的西西里岛和意大利南部海岸附近，我看到人们将船的桅杆固定在一半，他们的脚搁在横梁上，横梁的大小刚好足以支撑他们。他们从这个有利位置用矛刺剑鱼。当我看到这样工作的人时，我几乎可以怀疑《奥德赛》的作者也见过类似的人，并且在描述《尤利西斯》的装订时脑海中浮现出他们。因此，我带着一些信心冒险离开了[希腊语]的公认翻译（参见Alcaeus frag.18，然而，很难说出[希腊语]的含义）。在索福克勒斯的词典中，我找到了对 Chrysostom (l, 242, A. Ed. Benedictine Paris 1834-1839) 一词的参考文献 [Greek]，它可能与 [Greek] 相同，但我在徒劳的。

{100} The writer is at fault here and tries to put it off on Circe. When Ulysses comes to take the route prescribed by Circe, he ought to pass either the Wanderers or some other difficulty of which we are not told, but he does not do so. The Planctae, or Wanderers, merge into Scylla and Charybdis, and the alternative between them and something untold merges into the alternative whether Ulysses had better choose Scylla or Charybdis. Yet from line 260, it seems we are to consider the Wanderers as having been passed by Ulysses; this appears even more plainly from xxiii. 327, in which Ulysses expressly mentions the Wandering rocks as having been between the Sirens and Scylla and Charybdis. The writer, however, is evidently unaware that she does not quite understand her own story; her difficulty was perhaps due to the fact that though Trapanese sailors had given her a fair idea as to where all her other localities really were, no one in those days more than in our own could localise the Planctae, which in fact, as Buttmann has argued, were derived not from any particular spot, but from sailors’ tales about the difficulties of navigating the group of the Aeolian islands as a whole (see note on ‘Od.’ x. 3). Still the matter of the poor doves caught her fancy, so she would not forgo them. The whirlwinds of fire and the smoke that hangs on Scylla suggests allusion to Stromboli and perhaps even Etna. Scylla is on the Italian side, and therefore may be said to look West. It is about 8 miles thence to the Sicilian coast, so Ulysses may be perfectly well told that after passing Scylla he will come to the Thrinacian island or Sicily. Charybdis is transposed to a site some few miles to the north of its actual position.
{100} 作者在这方面有过错，并试图将其推迟到喀耳刻。当尤利西斯沿着喀耳刻规定的路线走时，他应该通过流浪者或其他一些我们没有被告知的困难，但他没有这样做。 Planctae，或称流浪者，合并为斯库拉（Scylla）和卡律布狄斯（Charybdis），它们之间的选择和未知的事物合并为尤利西斯最好选择斯库拉（Scylla）还是卡律布狄斯（Charybdis）的选择。然而从第 260 行来看，我们似乎应该认为《流浪者》已经被尤利西斯经过了；这一点从 xxiii 中显得更加明显。 327，尤利西斯在其中明确提到流浪岩位于海妖、斯库拉和卡律布狄斯之间。然而，作者显然没有意识到她并不完全理解自己的故事。她的困难也许是由于这样一个事实：尽管特拉帕尼亚的水手们让她对所有其他地方的真实位置有了一个很好的了解，但在那个时代，没有人比我们今天更能确定浮板的位置，事实上，正如布特曼所言据认为，它们并非源自任何特定地点，而是源自水手们关于航行整个伊奥利亚群岛的困难的故事（参见“Od.”x.3 的注释）。尽管如此，可怜的鸽子的事还是引起了她的兴趣，所以她不会放弃它们。锡拉岛上的旋风和烟雾暗示着斯特龙博利岛，甚至可能是埃特纳火山。锡拉位于意大利一侧，因此可以说是向西看。从这里到西西里海岸大约有 8 英里，所以尤利西斯可能被完全告知，经过锡拉后，他将来到特里纳奇亚岛或西西里岛。卡律布狄斯被转移到其实际位置以北几英里的地方。

{101} I suppose this line to have been intercalated by the author when lines 426-446 were added.
{101} 我认为这一行是作者在添加第 426-446 行时插入的。

{102} For the reasons which enable us to identify the island of the two Sirens with the Lipari island now Salinas—the ancient Didyme, or ‘twin’ island—see The Authoress of the Odyssey, pp. 195, 196. The two Sirens doubtless were, as their name suggests, the whistling gusts, or avalanches of air that at times descend without a moment’s warning from the two lofty mountains of Salinas—as also from all high points in the neighbourhood.
{102} 出于使我们能够将两海妖岛与利帕里岛（现在的萨利纳斯岛）（古代 Didyme 或“双胞胎”岛）相区别的原因，请参阅《奥德赛的女作者》，第 195、196 页。两海妖毫无疑问，正如它们的名字所暗示的那样，呼啸的阵风或雪崩有时会毫无征兆地从萨利纳斯的两座高山上倾泻而下，也从附近的所有高点倾泻而下。

{103} See Admiral Smyth on the currents in the Straits of Messina, quoted in ‘The Authoress of the Odyssey,’ p. 197.
{103} 请参阅史密斯海军上将关于墨西拿海峡洋流的论述，引自《奥德赛的女作者》，第 14 页。 197.

{104} In the islands of Favognana and Marettimo off Trapani I have seen men fish exactly as here described. They chew bread into a paste and throw it into the sea to attract the fish, which they then spear. No line is used.
{104} 在特拉帕尼附近的法沃尼亚纳岛和马雷蒂莫岛，我看到人们钓鱼的情况与本文所述完全一样。他们把面包嚼成糊状，扔进海里以吸引鱼，然后用鱼叉刺鱼。不使用任何线路。

{105} The writer evidently regards Ulysses as on a coast that looked East at no great distance south of the Straits of Messina somewhere, say, near Tauromenium, now Taormina.
{105} 作者显然认为《尤利西斯》位于墨西拿海峡以南不远的某个海岸上，例如靠近陶罗梅尼姆（现在的陶尔米纳）的地方。

{106} Surely there must be a line missing here to tell us that the keel and mast were carried down into Charybdis. Besides, the aorist [Greek] in its present surrounding is perplexing. I have translated it as though it were an imperfect; I see Messrs. Butcher and Lang translate it as a pluperfect, but surely Charybdis was in the act of sucking down the water when Ulysses arrived.
{106} 当然，这里一定缺少一行字来告诉我们龙骨和桅杆被运到了卡律布狄斯。此外，不定过去时[希腊语]在其目前的环境中是令人困惑的。我把它翻译成不完美的。我看到布彻先生和朗先生将其翻译为过去完成时，但当尤利西斯到达时，卡律布狄斯肯定正在吸水。

{107} I suppose the passage within brackets to have been an afterthought but to have been written by the same hand as the rest of the poem. I suppose xii. 103 to have been also added by the writer when she decided on sending Ulysses back to Charybdis. The simile suggests the hand of the wife or daughter of a magistrate who had often seen her father come in cross and tired.
{107}我认为括号内的段落是事后的想法，但与诗的其余部分是同一个人写的。我想十二。 103 是作者在决定将尤利西斯送回卡律布狄斯时添加的。这个比喻暗示了一位地方法官的妻子或女儿的手，她经常看到她的父亲生气而疲惫。

{108} Gr. [Greek]. This puts coined money out of the question, but nevertheless implies that the gold had been worked into ornaments of some kind.
{108} 组[希腊语]。这就排除了铸币的可能性，但仍然暗示黄金已被加工成某种装饰品。

{109} I suppose Teiresias’ prophecy of bk. xi. 114-120 had made no impression on Ulysses. More probably the prophecy was an afterthought, intercalated, as I have already said, by the authoress when she changed her scheme.
{109} 我猜想是泰瑞西阿斯对 bk 的预言。 xi. 114-120 没有给尤利西斯留下任何印象。更可能的是，这个预言是后来的想法，正如我已经说过的，是女作者在改变计划时插入的。

{110} A male writer would have made Ulysses say, not ‘may you give satisfaction to your wives,’ but ‘may your wives give satisfaction to you.’
{110} 一位男作家会让《尤利西斯》说，不是“愿你让你的妻子满意”，而是“愿你的妻子让你满意”。

{111} See note {64}.
{111} 请参阅注释{64}。

{112} The land was in reality the shallow inlet, now the salt works of S. Cusumano—the neighbourhood of Trapani and Mt. Eryx being made to do double duty, both as Scheria and Ithaca. Hence the necessity for making Ulysses set out after dark, fall instantly into a profound sleep, and wake up on a morning so foggy that he could not see anything till the interviews between Neptune and Jove and between Ulysses and Minerva should have given the audience time to accept the situation. See illustrations and map near the end of bks. v. and vi. respectively.
{112} 这片土地实际上是浅水湾，现在是 S. Cusumano 的盐场——特拉帕尼和埃里克斯山附近的盐场被用来承担双重职责，既是谢里亚又是伊萨卡。因此，有必要让尤利西斯在天黑后出发，立即陷入深度睡眠，并在大雾的早晨醒来，以至于他什么也看不见，直到海王星与朱庇特之间以及尤利西斯与密涅瓦之间的会面应该给观众时间接受这种情况。请参阅 bks 末尾附近的插图和地图。五、六。分别。

{113} This cave, which is identifiable with singular completeness, is now called the ‘grotta del toro,’ probably a corruption of ‘tesoro,’ for it is held to contain a treasure. See The Authoress of the Odyssey, pp. 167-170.
{113} 这个洞穴的完整性非常明显，现在被称为“grotta del toro”，可能是“tesoro”的变形，因为它被认为藏有宝藏。参见《奥德赛的女作者》，第 167-170 页。

{114} Probably they would.
{114} 也许他们会的。

{115} Then it had a shallow shelving bottom.
{115} 然后它有一个浅搁架底部。

{116} Doubtless the road would pass the harbour in Odyssean times as it passes the salt works now; indeed, if there is to be a road at all there is no other level ground which it could take. See map above referred to.
{116}毫无疑问，这条路在奥德修斯时代会经过港口，就像现在经过盐场一样；事实上，如果真有一条路的话，就没有其他平坦的地面可以走。请参阅上面提到的地图。

{117} The rock at the end of the Northern harbour of Trapani, to which I suppose the writer of the ‘Odyssey’ to be here referring, still bears the name Malconsiglio—‘the rock of evil counsel.’ There is a legend that it was a ship of Turkish pirates who were intending to attack Trapani, but the ‘Madonna di Trapani’ crushed them under this rock just as they were coming into port. My friend Cavaliere Giannitrapani of Trapani told me that his father used to tell him when he was a boy that if he would drop exactly three drops of oil on to the water near the rock, he would see the ship still at the bottom. The legend is evidently a Christianised version of the Odyssean story, while the name supplies the additional detail that the disaster happened in consequence of an evil counsel.
{117} 特拉帕尼北部港口尽头的岩石，我想《奥德赛》的作者在这里指的是它，仍然被称为 Malconsiglio——“邪恶忠告的岩石。”有一个传说，这是一艘土耳其海盗的船，正打算攻击特拉帕尼，但正当他们进港时，“特拉帕尼圣母”号将他们压在了这块岩石下。我来自特拉帕尼的朋友卡瓦列尔·詹尼特拉帕尼 (Cavaliere Giannirapani) 告诉我，当他还是个孩子的时候，他的父亲常常告诉他，如果他将三滴油滴到岩石附近的水面上，他就会看到船仍在底部。这个传说显然是奥德赛故事的基督教版本，而这个名字则提供了额外的细节，表明这场灾难是由于邪恶的建议而发生的。

{118} It would seem then that the ship had got all the way back from Ithaca in about a quarter of an hour.
{118} 看来这艘船在大约一刻钟内就从伊萨卡岛一路回来了。

{119} And may we not add ‘and also to prevent his recognising that he was only in the place where he had met Nausicaa two days earlier.’
{119} 我们是否可以不添加“并且防止他认识到他只是在两天前遇见娜乌西卡的地方。”

{120} All this is to excuse the entire absence of Minerva from books ix.-xii., which I suppose had been written already, before the authoress had determined on making Minerva so prominent a character.
{120}所有这些都是为了原谅密涅瓦在第九至十二本书中的缺席，我想在女作者决定让密涅瓦成为如此突出的角色之前，我认为这本书已经写好了。

{121} We have met with this somewhat lame attempt to cover the writer’s change of scheme at the end of bk. vi.
{121} 我们遇到过这种有点蹩脚的尝试，试图掩盖作者在 bk 末尾改变方案的情况。六.

{122} I take the following from The Authoress of the Odyssey, p. 167. ‘It is clear from the text that there were two [caves] not one, but some one has enclosed in brackets the two lines in which the second cave is mentioned, I presume because he found himself puzzled by having a second cave sprung upon him when up to this point he had only been told of one.
{122}我从《奥德赛的女作者》中摘取以下内容，第 122 页。 167.“从文本中可以清楚地看出，有两个[洞穴]，而不是一个，但有人将提到第二个洞穴的两行放在括号中，我推测是因为他发现自己对出现第二个洞穴感到困惑到目前为止，他只被告知有一个。

‘I venture to think that if he had known the ground he would not have been puzzled, for there are two caves, distant about 80 or 100 yards from one another.’ The cave in which Ulysses hid his treasure is, as I have already said, identifiable with singular completeness. The other cave presents no special features, neither in the poem nor in nature.
“我大胆地认为，如果他了解地面，他就不会感到困惑，因为有两个洞穴，彼此相距大约 80 或 100 码。”正如我已经提到的，尤利西斯藏宝的洞穴就是说，可以以奇异的完整性来识别。另一个洞穴无论是在诗中还是在自然界中都没有什么特别之处。

{123} There is no attempt to disguise the fact that Penelope had long given encouragement to the suitors. The only defence set up is that she did not really mean to encourage them. Would it not have been wiser to have tried a little discouragement?
{123} 没有试图掩盖佩内洛普长期以来一直鼓励追求者的事实。唯一的辩护是她并不是真的想鼓励他们。尝试一点劝阻不是更明智吗？

{124} See map near the end of bk. vi. Ruccazzu dei corvi of course means ‘the rock of the ravens.’ Both name and ravens still exist.
{124} 查看 bk 尽头附近的地图。六. Ruccazzu dei corvi 当然意味着“乌鸦的岩石”。名字和乌鸦仍然存在。

{125} See The Authoress of the Odyssey, pp. 140, 141. The real reason for sending Telemachus to Pylos and Lacedaemon was that the authoress might get Helen of Troy into her poem. He was sent at the only point in the story at which he could be sent, so he must have gone then or not at all.
{125}参见《奥德赛》的女作者，第 140, 141 页。将特勒马科斯送到皮洛斯和拉栖代梦的真正原因是女作者可能会将特洛伊的海伦纳入她的诗中。他是在故事中唯一可以派他去的地方被派去的，所以他当时一定已经去了，或者根本就没有去。

{126} The site I assign to Eumaeus’s hut, close to the Ruccazzu dei Corvi, is about 2,000 feet above the sea, and commands an extensive view.
{126} 我指定给 Eumaeus 小屋的地点靠近 Ruccazzu dei Corvi，海拔约 2,000 英尺，视野开阔。

{127} Sandals such as Eumaeus was making are still worn in the Abruzzi and elsewhere. An oblong piece of leather forms the sole: holes are cut at the four corners, and through these holes leathern straps are passed, which are bound round the foot and cross-gartered up the calf.
{127} 阿布鲁齐和其他地方仍然穿着 Eumaeus 制作的凉鞋。鞋底由一块长方形皮革制成：四个角处切有孔，皮革带穿过这些孔，将脚绑在脚上并交叉绑在小腿上。

{128} See note {75}
{128} 请参阅注释{75}

{129} Telemachus like many another good young man seems to expect every one to fetch and carry for him.
{129} 像许多其他优秀的年轻人一样，特勒马科斯似乎期望每个人都为他取来并携带。

{130} ‘Il.’ vi. 288. The store room was fragrant because it was made of cedar wood. See ‘Il.’ xxiv. 192.
{130}“伊尔。”vi。 288. 储藏室是香柏木做的，所以很香。见“伊尔”二十四。 192.

{131} cf. ‘Il.’ vi. 289 and 293-296. The dress was kept at the bottom of the chest as one that would only be wanted on the greatest occasions; but surely the marriage of Hermione and of Megapenthes (bk, iv. ad init.) might have induced Helen to wear it on the preceding evening, in which case it could hardly have got back. We find no hint here of Megapenthes’ recent marriage.
{131} 参见。 “伊尔。”vi。 289和293-296。这件衣服被放在胸前，只有在最重要的场合才需要。但可以肯定的是，赫敏和梅加彭特斯的婚姻（bk，iv. ad init.）可能会促使海伦在前一天晚上戴上它，在这种情况下，它几乎不可能回来。我们在这里没有发现梅加彭特斯最近结婚的迹象。

{132} See note {83}.
{132} 请参阅注释{83}。

{133} cf. ‘Od.’ xi. 196, etc.
{133} 参见。 “哦。”xi。 196等

{134} The names Syra and Ortygia, on which island a great part of the Doric Syracuse was originally built, suggest that even in Odyssean times there was a prehistoric Syracuse, the existence of which was known to the writer of the poem.
{134} 多立克式锡拉丘兹的大部分最初建在这两个岛上，这两个名字表明，即使在奥德修斯时代，也有一个史前锡拉丘兹，这首诗的作者就知道它的存在。

{135} Literally ‘where are the turnings of the sun.’ Assuming, as we may safely do, that the Syra and Ortygia of the ‘Odyssey’ refer to Syracuse, it is the fact that not far to the South of these places the land turns sharply round, so that mariners following the coast would find the sun upon the other side of their ship to that on which they’d had it hitherto.
{135} 字面意思是“太阳在哪里转动。”我们可以放心地假设，《奥德赛》中的锡拉和奥提伽指的是锡拉丘兹，事实是，在这些地方以南不远的地方，陆地急剧转向，因此沿着海岸航行的水手会发现太阳在他们的船的另一侧，与他们迄今为止所看到的不同。

Mr. A. S. Griffith has kindly called my attention to Herod iv. 42, where, speaking of the circumnavigation of Africa by Phoenician mariners under Necos, he writes:
A.S.格里菲斯先生善意地提请我注意希律四世。 42，在谈到内科斯带领下的腓尼基水手环游非洲时，他写道：

‘On their return they declared—I for my part do not believe them, but perhaps others may—that in sailing round Libya [i.e. Africa] they had the sun upon their right hand. In this way was the extent of Libya first discovered.
“在他们返回时，他们宣称——我本人不相信他们，但也许其他人可能会——在绕利比亚航行时[即。非洲]他们的右手边有太阳。利比亚的疆域就是这样首次被发现的。

I take it that Eumaeus was made to have come from Syracuse because the writer thought she rather ought to have made something happen at Syracuse during her account of the voyages of Ulysses. She could not, however, break his long drift from Charybdis to the island of Pantellaria; she therefore resolved to make it up to Syracuse in another way.
我认为尤迈厄斯之所以来自锡拉丘兹，是因为作者认为她在描述尤利西斯的航行期间应该在锡拉丘兹发生一些事情。然而，她无法阻止他从卡律布狄斯到潘特拉里亚岛的长途漂流。因此，她决定以另一种方式弥补回到锡拉丘兹的遗憾。

{135} Modern excavations establish the existence of two and only two pre-Dorian communities at Syracuse; they were, so Dr. Orsi informed me, at Plemmirio and Cozzo Pantano. See The Authoress of the Odyssey, pp. 211-213.
{135} 现代发掘证实锡拉丘兹存在两个且仅有两个前多利安社区；奥尔西博士告诉我，他们是在 Plemmirio 和 Cozzo Pantano。参见《奥德赛的女作者》，第 211-213 页。

{136} This harbour is again evidently the harbour in which Ulysses had landed, i.e. the harbour that is now the salt works of S. Cusumano.
{136}这个港口显然又是尤利西斯登陆的港口，即现在是S.库苏马诺盐场的港口。

{137} This never can have been anything but very niggardly pay for some eight or nine days’ service. I suppose the crew were to consider the pleasure of having had a trip to Pylos as a set off. There is no trace of the dinner as having been actually given, either on the following or any other morning.
{137} 这只不过是为八九天的服务支付的非常微薄的费用。我想船员们会考虑以去皮洛斯旅行为出发点的乐趣。无论是在第二天还是在其他任何一个早晨，都没有晚餐实际进行过的痕迹。

{138} No hawk can tear its prey while it is on the wing.
{138} 鹰在飞行时无法撕裂猎物。

{139} The text is here apparently corrupt, and will not make sense as it stands. I follow Messrs. Butcher and Lang in omitting line 101.
{139} 此处的文本显然已损坏，而且按其原样没有任何意义。我跟随 Butcher 和 Lang 先生省略了第 101 行。

{140} i.e. to be milked, as in South Italian and Sicilian towns at the present day.
{140} 即挤奶，就像当今意大利南部和西西里的城镇一样。

{141} The butchering and making ready the carcases took place partly in the outer yard and partly in the open part of the inner court.
{141} 屠宰和准备尸体的工作部分在外院进行，部分在内院的露天区域进行。

{142} These words cannot mean that it would be afternoon soon after they were spoken. Ulysses and Eumaeus reached the town which was ‘some way off’ (xvii. 25) in time for the suitor’s early meal (xvii. 170 and 176) say at ten or eleven o’ clock. The context of the rest of the book shows this. Eumaeus and Ulysses, therefore, cannot have started later than eight or nine, and Eumaeus’s words must be taken as an exaggeration for the purpose of making Ulysses bestir himself.
{142} 这句话并不意味着说完之后不久就到了下午。尤利西斯和尤迈厄斯到达了“有些远”的城镇（第十七章第 25 章），正好赶上求婚者的早饭（第十七章第 170 章和第 176 章），比如说十点或十一点钟。本书其余部分的上下文表明了这一点。因此，尤迈厄斯和尤利西斯不可能晚于八点或九点开始行动，而尤迈厄斯的话必须被视为夸大其词，目的是为了让尤利西斯激动起来。

{143} I imagine the fountain to have been somewhere about where the church of the Madonna di Trapani now stands, and to have been fed with water from what is now called the Fontana Diffali on Mt. Eryx.
{143} 我想象喷泉位于现在特拉帕尼圣母教堂附近的某个地方，其水源来自现在埃里克斯山上的迪法利喷泉。

{144} From this and other passages in the ‘Odyssey’ it appears that we are in an age anterior to the use of coined money—an age when cauldrons, tripods, swords, cattle, chattels of all kinds, measures of corn, wine, or oil, etc. etc., not to say pieces of gold, silver, bronze, or even iron, wrought more or less, but unstamped, were the nearest approach to a currency that had as yet been reached.
{144} 从《奥德赛》中的这段和其他段落来看，我们似乎处于使用铸币之前的时代，在这个时代，大锅、三脚架、剑、牛、各种动产、谷物、酒，或石油等，更不用说金，银，青铜，甚至铁片，或多或少经过锻造，但未加盖印章，是迄今为止最接近的货币。

{145} Gr. is [Greek]
{145} 克是[希腊语]

{146} I correct these proofs abroad and am not within reach of Hesiod, but surely this passage suggests acquaintance with the Works and Ways, though it by no means compels it.
{146}我在国外纠正了这些证明，并且不在赫西奥德的范围内，但是这段文字无疑表明了对作品和道路的熟悉，尽管它绝不强制这样做。

{147} It would seem as though Eurynome and Euryclea were the same person. See note {156}
{147} 欧律诺墨 (Eurynome) 和欧律克里亚 (Euryclea) 似乎是同一个人。请参阅注释{156}

{148} It is plain, therefore, that Iris was commonly accepted as the messenger of the gods, though our authoress will never permit her to fetch or carry for any one.
{148} 因此，很明显，艾丽丝被普遍认为是众神的使者，尽管我们的女作者永远不会允许她为任何人取来或携带。

{149} i.e. the doorway leading from the inner to the outer court.
{149}即从内院通往外院的门口。

{150} Surely in this scene, again, Eurynome is in reality Euryclea. See note {156}
{150}当然，在这个场景中，欧律诺墨实际上就是欧律克里亚。请参阅注释{156}

{151} These, I imagine, must have been in the open part of the inner courtyard, where the maids also stood, and threw the light of their torches into the covered cloister that ran all round it. The smoke would otherwise have been intolerable.
{151}我想，这些一定是在内院的露天部分，女仆们也站在那里，将火把的光投进周围有遮盖的回廊。否则，烟雾将令人难以忍受。

{152} Translation very uncertain; vide Liddell and Scott, under [Greek]
{152} 翻译非常不确定；参见 Liddell 和 Scott，在 [希腊语] 下

{153} See photo on opposite page.
{153} 请参阅对页上的照片。

{154} cf. ‘Il.’ ii. 184, and 217, 218. An additional and well-marked feature being wanted to convince Penelope, the writer has taken the hunched shoulders of Thersites (who is mentioned immediately after Eurybates in the ‘Iliad’) and put them on to Eurybates’ back.
{154} 参见。 “伊尔。”ii。 184、217、218。为了说服佩内洛普，作者还添加了一个明显的特征，即把泰尔西忒斯（Thersites）驼背的肩膀（在《伊利亚特》中在欧律巴特斯之后立即提到）并把它们放在欧律巴特斯的背上。 。

{155} This is how geese are now fed in Sicily, at any rate in summer, when the grass is all burnt up. I have never seen them grazing.
{155} 这就是西西里岛现在喂鹅的方式，至少在夏天，草都烧光了。我从未见过它们吃草。

{156} Lower down (line 143) Euryclea says it was herself that had thrown the cloak over Ulysses—for the plural should not be taken as implying more than one person. The writer is evidently still fluctuating between Euryclea and Eurynome as the name for the old nurse. She probably originally meant to call her Euryclea, but finding it not immediately easy to make Euryclea scan in xvii. 495, she hastily called her Eurynome, intending either to alter this name later or to change the earlier Euryclea’s into Eurynome. She then drifted in to Eurynome as convenience further directed, still nevertheless hankering after Euryclea, till at last she found that the path of least resistance would lie in the direction of making Eurynome and Euryclea two persons. Therefore in xxiii. 289-292 both Eurynome and ‘the nurse’ (who can be none other than Euryclea) come on together. I do not say that this is feminine, but it is not unfeminine.
{156}往下看（第143行）尤里克利说是她自己给《尤利西斯》披上了斗篷——因为复数不应被视为暗示不止一个人。作者显然仍在Euryclea 和Eurynome 之间徘徊，作为老护士的名字。她最初可能打算叫她欧律克里亚，但发现在第十七章中让欧律克里亚扫描并不容易。 495，她急忙给她起名叫Eurynome，打算要么以后改这个名字，要么把之前的Euryclea改成Eurynome。然后，她按照进一步方便的指示，漂流到欧律诺墨，尽管如此，她仍然渴望欧律克里亚，直到最后她发现阻力最小的道路将是使欧律诺墨和欧律克里亚成为两个人。因此在二十三。 289-292 欧律诺墨和“护士”（不是别人，正是欧律克莉亚）同时出现。我并不是说这是女性化的，但也并非不女性化。

{157} See note {156}
{157} 请参阅注释{156}

{158} This, I take it, was immediately in front of the main entrance of the inner courtyard into the body of the house.
{158} 我认为，这就位于进入房屋主体的内院正门前面。

{159} This is the only allusion to Sardinia in either ‘Iliad’ or ‘Odyssey.’
{159} 这是《伊利亚特》或《奥德赛》中唯一提及撒丁岛的地方。

{160} The normal translation of the Greek word would be ‘holding back,’ ‘curbing,’ ‘restraining,’ but I cannot think that the writer meant this—she must have been using the word in its other sense of ‘having,’ ‘holding,’ ‘keeping,’ ‘maintaining.’
{160}这个希腊词的正常翻译是“阻止”、“遏制”、“限制”，但我不认为作者的意思是这个——她一定是在“拥有、 ”“持有”、“保持”、“维持”。

{161} I have vainly tried to realise the construction of the fastening here described.
{161}我徒劳地尝试实现此处描述的紧固结构。

{162} See plan of Ulysses’ house in the appendix. It is evident that the open part of the court had no flooring but the natural soil.
{162} 请参阅附录中的尤利西斯之家平面图。显然，球场的开放部分没有地板，只有天然土壤。

{163} See plan of Ulysses’ house, and note {175}.
{163}参见尤利西斯之家的平面图，并注意{175}。

{164} i.e. the door that led into the body of the house.
{164} 即通向房屋主体的门。

{165} This was, no doubt, the little table that was set for Ulysses, ‘Od.’ xx. 259.
{165}毫无疑问，这是为《尤利西斯》“Od.”xx 设置的小桌子。 259.

Surely the difficulty of this passage has been overrated. I suppose the iron part of the axe to have been wedged into the handle, or bound securely to it—the handle being half buried in the ground. The axe would be placed edgeways towards the archer, and he would have to shoot his arrow through the hole into which the handle was fitted when the axe was in use. Twelve axes were placed in a row all at the same height, all exactly in front of one another, all edgeways to Ulysses whose arrow passed through all the holes from the first onward. I cannot see how the Greek can bear any other interpretation, the words being, [Greek]
当然，这段经文的难度被高估了。我猜想斧头的铁部分已经楔入手柄中，或者牢固地固定在手柄上——手柄一半埋在地下。斧头会被放置在朝向弓箭手的边缘，当使用斧头时，他必须将箭射入装有手柄的孔中。十二把斧子排成一排，高度都一样，都在彼此的正前方，都向尤利西斯倾斜，尤利西斯的箭从第一个洞开始穿过所有的洞。我看不出希腊语怎么能忍受任何其他解释，这个词是，[希腊语]

‘He did not miss a single hole from the first onwards.’ [Greek] according to Liddell and Scott being ‘the hole for the handle of an axe, etc.,’ while [Greek] (“Od.’ v. 236) is, according to the same authorities, the handle itself. The feat is absurdly impossible, but our authoress sometimes has a soul above impossibilities.
“从一开始他就没有错过任何一个洞。”[希腊语]根据 Liddell 和 Scott 的说法是“斧头等手柄的洞”，而[希腊语]（“Od.” v. 236）根据同一机构的说法，是手柄本身。这一壮举是荒谬的不可能的，但我们的女作家有时拥有超越不可能的灵魂。

{166} The reader will note how the spoiling of good food distresses the writer even in such a supreme moment as this.
{166} 读者会注意到，即使在这样一个至高无上的时刻，美味佳肴的变质也让作者感到多么痛苦。

{167} Here we have it again. Waste of substance comes first.
{167} 又来了。物质浪费是第一位的。

{168} cf. ‘Il.’ iii. 337 and three other places. It is strange that the author of the ‘Iliad’ should find a little horse-hair so alarming. Possibly enough she was merely borrowing a common form line from some earlier poet—or poetess—for this is a woman’s line rather than a man’s.
{168} 参见。 “伊尔。” iii． 337和其他三个地方。奇怪的是，《伊利亚特》的作者居然发现一根小马毛如此令人震惊。很可能她只是借用了一些早期诗人（或女诗人）的常见诗句，因为这是女性的诗句，而不是男性的诗句。

{169} Or perhaps simply ‘window.’ See plan in the appendix.
{169} 或者简称为“窗口”。请参阅附录中的计划。

{170} i.e. the pavement on which Ulysses was standing.
{170} 即尤利西斯站立的人行道。

{171} The interpretation of lines 126-143 is most dubious, and at best we are in a region of melodrama: cf., however, i.425, etc. from which it appears that there was a tower in the outer court, and that Telemachus used to sleep in it. The [Greek] I take to be a door, or trap door, leading on to the roof above Telemachus’s bed room, which we are told was in a place that could be seen from all round—or it might be simply a window in Telemachus’s room looking out into the street. From the top of the tower the outer world was to be told what was going on, but people could not get in by the [Greek]: they would have to come in by the main entrance, and Melanthius explains that the mouth of the narrow passage (which was in the lands of Ulysses and his friends) commanded the only entrance by which help could come, so that there would be nothing gained by raising an alarm. As for the [Greek] of line 143, no commentator ancient or modern has been able to say what was intended—but whatever they were, Melanthius could never carry twelve shields, twelve helmets, and twelve spears. Moreover, where he could go the others could go also. If a dozen suitors had followed Melanthius into the house they could have attacked Ulysses in the rear, in which case, unless Minerva had intervened promptly, the ‘Odyssey’ would have had a different ending. But throughout the scene we are in a region of extravagance rather than of true fiction—it cannot be taken seriously by any but the very serious, until we come to the episode of Phemius and Medon, where the writer begins to be at home again.
{171} 第 126-143 行的解释是最可疑的，充其量我们处于一个情节剧的区域：然而，参见 i.425 等，从中看来外院有一座塔楼，忒勒马科斯曾经睡在里面。我认为这个[希腊语]是一扇门，或者说活板门，通向特勒马科斯卧室上方的屋顶，我们被告知那是在一个可以从四面八方看到的地方——或者它可能只是特勒马科斯卧室的一扇窗户。房间望向街道。从塔顶向外部世界通报正在发生的事情，但人们无法通过[希腊]进入：他们必须从主入口进入，梅兰修斯解释说，狭窄的入口通道（位于尤利西斯和他的朋友们的土地上）控制着救援的唯一入口，因此发出警报不会有任何收获。至于第 143 行的[希腊语]，古代或现代的评论家都无法说出其意图，但无论它们是什么，梅兰修斯永远无法携带十二面盾牌、十二面头盔和十二面矛。而且，他能去的地方，其他人也可以去。如果十几个追求者跟随梅兰修斯进入屋内，他们可能会从后方袭击尤利西斯，这种情况下，除非密涅瓦及时介入，否则“奥德赛”将会有不同的结局。但在整个场景中，我们处于一个奢侈的区域，而不是真正的虚构——除了非常严肃的人之外，任何人都不能认真对待它，直到我们来到《菲米乌斯和梅东》的那一集，在那里，作家又开始感到宾至如归了。

{172} I presume it was intended that there should be a hook driven into the bearing-post.
{172}我认为应该有一个钩子插入轴承柱中。

{173} What for?
{173}有什么用？

{174} Gr: [Greek]. This is not [Greek].
{174} Gr：[希腊语]。这不是[希腊语]。

{175} From lines 333 and 341 of this book, and lines 145 and 146 of bk. xxi we can locate the approach to the [Greek] with some certainty.
{175}摘自本书第 333 和 341 行，以及 bk 的第 145 和 146 行。 xxi 我们可以确定地找到通往[希腊语]的途径。

{176} But in xix. 500-502 Ulysses scolded Euryclea for offering information on this very point, and declared himself quite able to settle it for himself.
{176}但在十九年。 500-502 尤利西斯责备欧律克里亚在这一点上提供了信息，并宣称自己完全有能力解决这个问题。

{177} There were a hundred and eight Suitors.
{177} 有一百零八名追求者。

{178} Lord Grimthorpe, whose understanding does not lend itself to easy imposition, has been good enough to write to me about my conviction that the ‘Odyssey’ was written by a woman, and to send me remarks upon the gross absurdity of the incident here recorded. It is plain that all the authoress cared about was that the women should be hanged: as for attempting to realise, or to make her readers realise, how the hanging was done, this was of no consequence. The reader must take her word for it and ask no questions. Lord Grimthorpe wrote:
{178} 格里姆索普勋爵的理解力不适合轻易强加，他足够好地写信给我，讲述了我对《奥德赛》是由一位女性所写的信念，并向我发送了对这一事件的严重荒谬的评论这里记录了。显然，女作者所关心的只是这些妇女应该被绞死：至于试图了解，或者让她的读者了解绞刑是如何进行的，这并不重要。读者必须相信她的话，不要提出任何问题。格里姆索普勋爵写道：

‘I had better send you my ideas about Nausicaa’s hanging of the maids (not ‘maidens,’ of whom Fronde wrote so well in his ‘Science of History’) before I forget it all. Luckily for me Liddell & Scott have specially translated most of the doubtful words, referring to this very place.
“在我把这一切都忘记之前，我最好把我对娜乌西卡绞死女仆（不是‘少女’，弗隆德在他的《历史科学》中写得很好）的想法告诉你。对我来说幸运的是，利德尔和斯科特专门翻译了大部分可疑的词语，指的是这个地方。

‘A ship’s cable. I don’t know how big a ship she meant, but it must have been a very small one indeed if its ‘cable’ could be used to tie tightly round a woman’s neck, and still more round a dozen of them ‘in a row,’ besides being strong enough to hold them and pull them all up.
“一条船的电缆。我不知道她说的船有多大，但如果它的“缆绳”能用来紧紧地套住一个女人的脖子，更何况是“排成一排”的十几艘船，那它一定是一艘很小的船。 ”，除了足够强大的力量来支撑它们并将它们全部拉起来。

‘A dozen average women would need the weight and strength of more than a dozen strong heavy men even over the best pulley hung to the roof over them; and the idea of pulling them up by a rope hung anyhow round a pillar [Greek] is absurdly impossible; and how a dozen of them could be hung dangling round one post is a problem which a senior wrangler would be puzzled to answer … She had better have let Telemachus use his sword as he had intended till she changed his mind for him.’
“十几个普通女人需要十多个强壮的大男人的体重和力量，即使是在屋顶上悬挂的最好的滑轮上；用一根挂在柱子（希腊语）上的绳子把它们拉起来的想法是荒谬的不可能的； “如何将十几把剑悬挂在一根柱子上，这是一个高级牧马人会困惑地回答的问题……她最好让特勒马科斯按照他的意图使用他的剑，直到她改变主意为止。”

{179} Then they had all been in Ulysses’ service over twenty years; perhaps the twelve guilty ones had been engaged more recently.
{179}然后他们都为尤利西斯服务了二十多年；也许那十二个有罪的人是最近才订婚的。

{180} Translation very doubtful—cf. ‘It.’ xxiv. 598.
{180}翻译非常值得怀疑——参见。 “它。”二十四。 598.

{181} But why could she not at once ask to see the scar, of which Euryclea had told her, or why could not Ulysses have shown it to her?
{181}但是为什么她不能立即要求查看尤里克利告诉她的伤疤，或者为什么尤利西斯不能向她展示它？

{182} The people of Ithaca seem to have been as fond of carping as the Phaeacians were in vi. 273, etc.
{182} 伊萨卡人民似乎像 vi 中的斐埃基人一样喜欢吹毛求疵。 273等

{183} See note {156}. Ulysses’s bed room does not appear to have been upstairs, nor yet quite within the house. Is it possible that it was ‘the domed room’ round the outside of which the erring maids were, for aught we have heard to the contrary, still hanging?
{183} 请参阅注释{156}。尤利西斯的卧室似乎不在楼上，也不在房子内。有没有可能这就是“圆顶房间”，那些犯错的女仆仍然悬在外面，尽管我们听说的情况与此相反？

{184} Ulysses bedroom in the mind of the writer is here too apparently down stairs.
{184} 作者心目中的《尤利西斯》卧室显然就在楼下。

{185} Penelope having been now sufficiently whitewashed, disappears from the poem.
{185}佩内洛普现在已被充分粉饰，从诗中消失了。

{186} So practised a washerwoman as our authoress doubtless knew that by this time the web must have become such a wreck that it would have gone to pieces in the wash.
{186}一位洗衣妇如此熟练，我们的女作者无疑知道，此时网络一定已经变得如此破烂，以至于在洗涤过程中会变成碎片。

A lady points out to me, just as these sheets are leaving my hands, that no really good needlewoman—no one, indeed, whose work or character was worth consideration—could have endured, no matter for what reason, the unpicking of her day’s work, day after day for between three and four years.
就在这些床单离开我的手时，一位女士向我指出，没有一个真正优秀的女裁缝——事实上，没有一个人的工作或性格值得考虑——无论出于什么原因，都无法忍受她当天的衣服被拆开。日复一日地工作，持续三四年。

{187} We must suppose Dolius not yet to know that his son Melanthius had been tortured, mutilated, and left to die by Ulysses’ orders on the preceding day, and that his daughter Melantho had been hanged. Dolius was probably exceptionally simple-minded, and his name was ironical. So on Mt. Eryx I was shown a man who was always called Sonza Malizia or ‘Guileless’—he being held exceptionally cunning.
{187}我们必须假设多利乌斯还不知道他的儿子梅兰修斯在前一天被尤利西斯的命令折磨、残害并被处死，而他的女儿梅兰修斯已被绞死。多利乌斯大概是个头脑特别简单的人，而且他的名字也颇具讽刺意味。因此，在埃里克斯山上，我看到了一个总是被称为桑扎·马利齐亚（Sonza Malizia）或“无知”的人——他异常狡猾。