
Anna Karenina
安娜·卡列尼娜

By Leo Tolstoy
作者：列夫·托尔斯泰

Translated by Constance Garnett
康斯坦斯·加内特翻译

Part One
第一部分

Chapter 1
第1章

Happy families are all alike; every unhappy family is unhappy in its own way.
幸福的家庭都是相似的；每个不幸的家庭都有自己的不幸。

Everything was in confusion in the Oblonskys’ house. The wife had discovered that the husband was carrying on an intrigue with a French girl, who had been a governess in their family, and she had announced to her husband that she could not go on living in the same house with him. This position of affairs had now lasted three days, and not only the husband and wife themselves, but all the members of their family and household, were painfully conscious of it. Every person in the house felt that there was no sense in their living together, and that the stray people brought together by chance in any inn had more in common with one another than they, the members of the family and household of the Oblonskys. The wife did not leave her own room, the husband had not been at home for three days. The children ran wild all over the house; the English governess quarreled with the housekeeper, and wrote to a friend asking her to look out for a new situation for her; the man-cook had walked off the day before just at dinner time; the kitchen-maid, and the coachman had given warning.
奥布朗斯基家的一切都一片混乱。妻子发现丈夫与一位曾在家里担任家庭教师的法国女孩有私情，她向丈夫宣布，她不能再和他住在同一所房子里了。这种情况已经持续了三天，不仅夫妻俩自己，就连他们的家人和家人都痛苦地意识到这一点。屋子里的每个人都觉得他们住在一起没有任何意义，而且在任何一家客栈里偶然聚集在一起的流浪者彼此之间的共同点比他们这些奥布隆斯基家族的成员和家庭成员有更多的共同点。妻子没有离开过自己的房间，丈夫已经三天没在家了。孩子们在房子里到处乱跑。英国家庭女教师与管家争吵，并写信给一位朋友，请她为自己寻找新的处境。前一天正值晚餐时间，男厨师就走了。厨房女仆和车夫都发出了警告。

Three days after the quarrel, Prince Stepan Arkadyevitch Oblonsky—Stiva, as he was called in the fashionable world— woke up at his usual hour, that is, at eight o’clock in the morning, not in his wife’s bedroom, but on the leather-covered sofa in his study. He turned over his stout, well-cared-for person on the springy sofa, as though he would sink into a long sleep again; he vigorously embraced the pillow on the other side and buried his face in it; but all at once he jumped up, sat up on the sofa, and opened his eyes.
争吵三天后，斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇·奥布隆斯基王子——时尚界对他的称呼是斯蒂瓦——在平常的时间，即早上八点，醒来，不是在妻子的卧室，而是在早晨。他书房里的真皮沙发。他在有弹性的沙发上翻了个身，把他那粗壮、精心照顾的人翻了个身，仿佛又要陷入长长的睡眠了。他用力抱住另一边的枕头，把脸埋进去。但他突然跳了起来，在沙发上坐了起来，睁开了眼睛。

‘Yes, yes, how was it now?’ he thought, going over his dream. ‘Now, how was it? To be sure! Alabin was giving a dinner at Darmstadt; no, not Darmstadt, but something American. Yes, but then, Darmstadt was in America. Yes, Alabin was giving a dinner on glass tables, and the tables sang, Il mio tesoro—not Il mio tesoro though, but something better, and there were some sort of little decanters on the table, and they were women, too,’ he remembered.
“是的，是的，现在怎么样？”他一边想，一边回顾自己的梦。 ‘现在，怎么样？为了确定！阿拉宾正在达姆施塔特举办晚宴。不，不是达姆施塔特，而是美国的东西。是的，但是达姆施塔特在美国。是的，阿拉宾正在玻璃桌上举办晚宴，桌子上唱着“Il mio tesoro”——不过不是“Il mio tesoro”，而是更好的歌，桌子上有一些小酒瓶，而且她们也是女人，”他记得。

Stepan Arkadyevitch’s eyes twinkled gaily, and he pondered with a smile. ‘Yes, it was nice, very nice. There was a great deal more that was delightful, only there’s no putting it into words, or even expressing it in one’s thoughts awake.’ And noticing a gleam of light peeping in beside one of the serge curtains, he cheerfully dropped his feet over the edge of the sofa, and felt about with them for his slippers, a present on his last birthday, worked for him by his wife on gold-colored morocco. And, as he had done every day for the last nine years, he stretched out his hand, without getting up, towards the place where his dressing-gown always hung in his bedroom. And thereupon he suddenly remembered that he was not sleeping in his wife’s room, but in his study, and why: the smile vanished from his face, he knitted his brows.
斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇的眼睛闪闪发亮，微笑着沉思着。 ‘是的，这很好，非常好。还有很多令人愉快的事情，只是无法用语言来表达，甚至无法在清醒的头脑中表达出来。”他注意到一束亮光从哔叽窗帘旁边窥视进来，他高兴地把脚放在了床上。他走到沙发边，和他们一起摸索着他的拖鞋，那是他去年生日时送给他的礼物，是他妻子为他做的，金色的摩洛哥色。然后，就像过去九年来他每天所做的那样，他没有起身，就向卧室里一直挂着他的晨衣的地方伸出了手。这时他突然想起自己不是睡在妻子的房间里，而是睡在书房里，原因是：他脸上的笑容消失了，他皱起了眉头。

‘Ah, ah, ah! Oo!...’ he muttered, recalling everything that had happened. And again every detail of his quarrel with his wife was present to his imagination, all the hopelessness of his position, and worst of all, his own fault.
'啊啊啊！噢！……”他低声说道，回想起所发生的一切。他与妻子争吵的每一个细节都再次出现在他的想象中，他的处境令人绝望，最糟糕的是，他自己的过错。

‘Yes, she won’t forgive me, and she can’t forgive me. And the most awful thing about it is that it’s all my fault—all my fault, though I’m not to blame. That’s the point of the whole situation,’ he reflected. ‘Oh, oh, oh!’ he kept repeating in despair, as he remembered the acutely painful sensations caused him by this quarrel.
‘是的，她不会原谅我，她也不能原谅我。最可怕的是，这都是我的错——都是我的错，尽管我不应该受到责备。这就是整个情况的重点，”他反思道。 “噢，噢，噢！”他绝望地不断重复着，因为他想起了这场争吵给他带来的剧痛。

Most unpleasant of all was the first minute when, on coming, happy and good-humored, from the theater, with a huge pear in his hand for his wife, he had not found his wife in the drawing-room, to his surprise had not found her in the study either, and saw her at last in her bedroom with the unlucky letter that revealed everything in her hand.
最不愉快的是第一分钟，当他从剧院出来时，心情愉快，手里拿着一个巨大的梨子送给妻子，却没有在客厅里找到妻子，令他惊讶的是在书房里也没有找到她，最后在卧室里看到了她，手里拿着那封倒霉的信，揭示了她的一切。

She, his Dolly, forever fussing and worrying over household details, and limited in her ideas, as he considered, was sitting perfectly still with the letter in her hand, looking at him with an expression of horror, despair, and indignation.
她，他的多莉，永远对家庭细节大惊小怪、担心不已，而且她的想法也很有限，正如他所认为的那样，她一动不动地坐着，手里拿着那封信，用一种恐惧、绝望和愤慨的表情看着他。

‘What’s this? this?’ she asked, pointing to the letter.
'这是什么？这个？”她指着那封信问道。

And at this recollection, Stepan Arkadyevitch, as is so often the case, was not so much annoyed at the fact itself as at the way in which he had met his wife’s words.
回忆起这件事，斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇像往常一样，并不是对事实本身感到恼火，而是对他回应妻子的话的方式感到恼火。

There happened to him at that instant what does happen to people when they are unexpectedly caught in something very disgraceful. He did not succeed in adapting his face to the position in which he was placed towards his wife by the discovery of his fault. Instead of being hurt, denying, defending himself, begging forgiveness, instead of remaining indifferent even—anything would have been better than what he did do—his face utterly involuntarily (reflex spinal action, reflected Stepan Arkadyevitch, who was fond of physiology)—utterly involuntarily assumed its habitual, good-humored, and therefore idiotic smile.
在那一刻，他经历了人们意外地陷入非常不光彩的事情时会发生什么。当他发现自己的错误时，他并没有成功地将自己的脸调整到面对妻子的位置。他没有受伤、否认、为自己辩护、乞求宽恕，甚至没有保持冷漠——任何事情都会比他所做的更好——他的脸完全不由自主地出现（脊椎反射动作，喜欢生理学的斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇反映）——完全不由自主地露出了习惯性的、幽默的、因此而愚蠢的微笑。

This idiotic smile he could not forgive himself. Catching sight of that smile, Dolly shuddered as though at physical pain, broke out with her characteristic heat into a flood of cruel words, and rushed out of the room. Since then she had refused to see her husband.
这种愚蠢的笑容他无法原谅自己。看到那笑容，多莉仿佛因身体疼痛而浑身颤抖，以她特有的热情爆发出一连串残酷的话语，冲出了房间。从那时起，她就拒绝见她的丈夫。

‘It’s that idiotic smile that’s to blame for it all,’ thought Stepan Arkadyevitch.
“这一切的罪魁祸首就是那愚蠢的微笑。”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇想。

‘But what’s to be done? What’s to be done?’ he said to himself in despair, and found no answer.
‘但是该怎么办呢？怎么办？”他绝望地自言自语，却找不到答案。

Chapter 2
第2章

Stepan Arkadyevitch was a truthful man in his relations with himself. He was incapable of deceiving himself and persuading himself that he repented of his conduct. He could not at this date repent of the fact that he, a handsome, susceptible man of thirty-four, was not in love with his wife, the mother of five living and two dead children, and only a year younger than himself. All he repented of was that he had not succeeded better in hiding it from his wife. But he felt all the difficulty of his position and was sorry for his wife, his children, and himself. Possibly he might have managed to conceal his sins better from his wife if he had anticipated that the knowledge of them would have had such an effect on her. He had never clearly thought out the subject, but he had vaguely conceived that his wife must long ago have suspected him of being unfaithful to her, and shut her eyes to the fact. He had even supposed that she, a worn-out woman no longer young or good-looking, and in no way remarkable or interesting, merely a good mother, ought from a sense of fairness to take an indulgent view. It had turned out quite the other way.
斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇在对待自己的问题上是一个诚实的人。他无法欺骗自己并说服自己为自己的行为悔改。此刻，他无法后悔这样一个事实：他，一个英俊、易受影响的三十四岁男人，并不爱他的妻子，她是五个活着的孩子和两个死去的孩子的母亲，而且只比他小一岁。他所后悔的只是没有更好地向妻子隐瞒这件事。但他感受到了自己处境的艰难，并为他的妻子、孩子和他自己感到难过。如果他预料到知道自己的罪会对她产生如此大的影响，也许他能更好地向妻子隐瞒自己的罪。他一直没有想清楚这个问题，但他隐隐约约地觉得，他的妻子一定早就怀疑他对她不忠，而对此视而不见。他甚至认为，她这个疲惫不堪的女人，不再年轻，不再漂亮，也谈不上什么了不起，也谈不上有趣，只是一个好母亲，出于公平感，应该采取宽容的态度。结果却完全相反。

‘Oh, it’s awful! oh dear, oh dear! awful!’ Stepan Arkadyevitch kept repeating to himself, and he could think of nothing to be done. ‘And how well things were going up till now! how well we got on! She was contented and happy in her children; I never interfered with her in anything; I let her manage the children and the house just as she liked. It’s true it’s bad her having been a governess in our house. That’s bad! There’s something common, vulgar, in flirting with one’s governess. But what a governess!’ (He vividly recalled the roguish black eyes of Mlle. Roland and her smile.) ‘But after all, while she was in the house, I kept myself in hand. And the worst of it all is that she’s already...it seems as if ill-luck would have it so! Oh, oh! But what, what is to be done?’
‘噢，太糟糕了！噢，亲爱的，噢，亲爱的！太糟糕了！”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇不断地对自己重复着，但他却想不出什么可做的。 ‘到目前为止，事情进展得多么顺利啊！我们相处得多么好啊！她对孩子们感到满足和快乐。我从来没有干涉过她的任何事情；我让她随心所欲地管理孩子和房子。确实，她在我们家当家庭教师很糟糕。那很糟！与家庭教师调情是一种常见的、粗俗的行为。但她真是一位多么出色的家庭女教师啊！”（他清楚地记得罗兰小姐那双流氓般的黑眼睛和她的微笑。）“但毕竟，当她在家里的时候，我就控制住了自己。最糟糕的是她已经……看来运气不好！哦，哦！但是，该怎么办呢？

There was no solution, but that universal solution which life gives to all questions, even the most complex and insoluble. That answer is: one must live in the needs of the day—that is, forget oneself. To forget himself in sleep was impossible now, at least till nighttime; he could not go back now to the music sung by the decanter-women; so he must forget himself in the dream of daily life.
没有解决办法，只有生活为所有问题提供的普遍解决方案，即使是最复杂和最无法解决的问题。答案是：人必须活在当下的需要中——也就是说，忘记自己。现在，在睡眠中忘记自己是不可能的，至少在晚上之前是这样。他现在无法再回到侍酒女们所唱的音乐了。所以他必须在日常生活的梦中忘记自己。

‘Then we shall see,’ Stepan Arkadyevitch said to himself, and getting up he put on a gray dressing-gown lined with blue silk, tied the tassels in a knot, and, drawing a deep breath of air into his broad, bare chest, he walked to the window with his usual confident step, turning out his feet that carried his full frame so easily. He pulled up the blind and rang the bell loudly. It was at once answered by the appearance of an old friend, his valet, Matvey, carrying his clothes, his boots, and a telegram. Matvey was followed by the barber with all the necessaries for shaving.
“那我们就拭目以待吧，”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇自言自语道，站起身来，穿上一件蓝色丝绸衬里的灰色晨衣，把流苏打成一个结，深深地吸了一口气，深深地吸进了宽阔、裸露的胸膛。 ，他迈着一贯自信的步伐走到窗前，伸出双脚，轻松承载着他的整个身形。他拉起百叶窗，大声按响了门铃。一位老朋友、他的贴身男仆马特维立刻出现了回应，手里拿着他的衣服、靴子和一份电报。理发师带着所有剃须必需品跟在马特维后面。

‘Are there any papers from the office?’ asked Stepan Arkadyevitch, taking the telegram and seating himself at the looking-glass.
“办公室里有什么文件吗？”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇接过电报，坐在镜子前问道。

‘On the table,’ replied Matvey, glancing with inquiring sympathy at his master; and, after a short pause, he added with a sly smile, ‘They’ve sent from the carriage-jobbers.’
“在桌子上。”马特维回答道，用询问同情的目光看了一眼他的主人。短暂的停顿后，他狡猾地微笑着补充道：“他们是马车贩子送来的。”

Stepan Arkadyevitch made no reply, he merely glanced at Matvey in the looking-glass. In the glance, in which their eyes met in the looking-glass, it was clear that they understood one another. Stepan Arkadyevitch’s eyes asked: ‘Why do you tell me that? don’t you know?’
斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇没有回答，只是在镜子里看了一眼玛特维。镜中两人目光交汇的一瞥，显然彼此了解。斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇的眼睛问道：“你为什么告诉我这个？你不知道吗？

Matvey put his hands in his jacket pockets, thrust out one leg, and gazed silently, good-humoredly, with a faint smile, at his master.
玛特维双手插在上衣口袋里，伸出一条腿，带着淡淡的微笑，幽默地默默地凝视着他的主人。

‘I told them to come on Sunday, and till then not to trouble you or themselves for nothing,’ he said. He had obviously prepared the sentence beforehand.
“我告诉他们周日来，在那之前不要无缘无故地麻烦你或他们自己，”他说。显然，他已经提前准备好了这句话。

Stepan Arkadyevitch saw Matvey wanted to make a joke and attract attention to himself. Tearing open the telegram, he read it through, guessing at the words, misspelt as they always are in telegrams, and his face brightened.
斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇看出马特维想开个玩笑，吸引别人的注意。他撕开电报，通读一遍，猜测其中的文字，电报中总是拼写错误，他的脸变得明亮起来。

‘Matvey, my sister Anna Arkadyevna will be here tomorrow,’ he said, checking for a minute the sleek, plump hand of the barber, cutting a pink path through his long, curly whiskers.
“马特维，我妹妹安娜·阿尔卡季耶芙娜明天会来。”他一边说，一边检查了一下理发师那只光滑、丰满的手，在他长而卷曲的胡须上划出了一条粉红色的路径。

‘Thank God!’ said Matvey, showing by this response that he, like his master, realized the significance of this arrival—that is, that Anna Arkadyevna, the sister he was so fond of, might bring about a reconciliation between husband and wife.
“感谢上帝！”马特维说，他的回答表明，他和他的主人一样，意识到了这次到来的意义——也就是说，他深爱的妹妹安娜·阿尔卡季耶夫娜可能会带来夫妻之间的和解。 。

‘Alone, or with her husband?’ inquired Matvey.
“一个人，还是和她丈夫一起？”马特维问道。

Stepan Arkadyevitch could not answer, as the barber was at work on his upper lip, and he raised one finger. Matvey nodded at the looking-glass.
斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇无法回答，因为理发师正在理发师的上唇，他举起了一根手指。马特维对着镜子点点头。

‘Alone. Is the room to be got ready upstairs?’
'独自的。楼上的房间准备好了吗？

‘Inform Darya Alexandrovna: where she orders.’
“通知达里娅·亚历山德罗芙娜：她在哪里下订单。”

‘Darya Alexandrovna?’ Matvey repeated, as though in doubt.
“达莉亚·亚历山德罗夫娜？”马特维重复道，似乎有些怀疑。

‘Yes, inform her. Here, take the telegram; give it to her, and then do what she tells you.’
‘是的，通知她。来，拿电报；把它交给她，然后按照她告诉你的去做。

‘You want to try it on,’ Matvey understood, but he only said, ‘Yes sir.’
“你想试穿一下，”马特维明白了，但他只是说，“是的，先生。”

Stepan Arkadyevitch was already washed and combed and ready to be dressed, when Matvey, stepping deliberately in his creaky boots, came back into the room with the telegram in his hand. The barber had gone.
斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇已经洗漱完毕，梳好衣服，准备穿衣服，这时马特维小心翼翼地穿着那双吱吱作响的靴子，手里拿着电报回到了房间。理发师已经走了。

‘Darya Alexandrovna told me to inform you that she is going away. Let him do—that is you—do as he likes,’ he said, laughing only with his eyes, and putting his hands in his pockets, he watched his master with his head on one side. Stepan Arkadyevitch was silent a minute. Then a good-humored and rather pitiful smile showed itself on his handsome face.
“达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜让我通知你她要离开。让他做——那就是你——做他喜欢做的事，”他说，只用眼睛笑，双手插在口袋里，头侧向一边看着他的主人。斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇沉默了一分钟。随后，他英俊的脸上浮现出一抹幽默而又有些可怜的笑容。

‘Eh, Matvey?’ he said, shaking his head.
“呃，马特维？”他摇摇头说道。

‘It’s all right, sir; she will come round,’ said Matvey.
“没关系，先生； “她会醒悟的。”马特维说。

‘Come round?’
“过来吗？”

‘Yes, sir.’
'是的先生。'

‘Do you think so? Who’s there?’ asked Stepan Arkadyevitch, hearing the rustle of a woman’s dress at the door.
‘你这么认为吗？谁在那儿？”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇问道，听到门口传来女人衣服的窸窸窣窣声。

‘It’s I,’ said a firm, pleasant, woman’s voice, and the stern, pockmarked face of Matrona Philimonovna, the nurse, was thrust in at the doorway.
“是我，”一个坚定、愉快的女人声音说道，护士马特罗娜·菲利莫诺夫娜那张严肃、麻子的脸被推到了门口。

‘Well, what is it, Matrona?’ queried Stepan Arkadyevitch, going up to her at the door.
“嗯，怎么了，马特罗娜？”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇走到门口问她。

Although Stepan Arkadyevitch was completely in the wrong as regards his wife, and was conscious of this himself, almost every one in the house (even the nurse, Darya Alexandrovna’s chief ally) was on his side.
尽管斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇对妻子的看法是完全错误的，而且他自己也意识到了这一点，但几乎家里的每个人（甚至是达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜的主要盟友护士）都站在他一边。

‘Well, what now?’ he asked disconsolately.
“那么，现在怎么办？”他沮丧地问道。

‘Go to her, sir; own your fault again. Maybe God will aid you. She is suffering so, it’s sad to hee her; and besides, everything in the house is topsy-turvy. You must have pity, sir, on the children. Beg her forgiveness, sir. There’s no help for it! One must take the consequences...’
“去找她吧，先生；再次承认你的错。也许上帝会帮助你。她如此痛苦，听她的声音很难过；而且，屋子里的一切都乱七八糟。先生，您一定要怜悯孩子们。请求她的原谅，先生。没有任何帮助！必须承担后果……”

‘But she won’t see me.’
“但她不会见我。”

‘You do your part. God is merciful; pray to God, sir, pray to God.’
‘你尽你的本分。神是仁慈的；向上帝祈祷，先生，向上帝祈祷。

‘Come, that’ll do, you can go,’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch, blushing suddenly. ‘Well now, do dress me.’ He turned to Matvey and threw off his dressing-gown decisively.
“来吧，这样就可以了，你可以走了。”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇突然红了脸说道。 “好吧，现在，给我穿衣服。”他转向马特维，果断地脱掉了晨衣。

Matvey was already holding up the shirt like a horse’s collar, and, blowing off some invisible speck, he slipped it with obvious pleasure over the well-groomed body of his master.
马特维已经像马领一样举起了衬衫，吹掉了一些看不见的斑点，他带着明显的喜悦将它套在了他主人精心打扮的身体上。

Chapter 3
第3章

When he was dressed, Stepan Arkadyevitch sprinkled some scent on himself, pulled down his shirt-cuffs, distributed into his pockets his cigarettes, pocketbook, matches, and watch with its double chain and seals, and shaking out his handkerchief, feeling himself clean, fragrant, healthy, and physically at ease, in spite of his unhappiness, he walked with a slight swing on each leg into the dining-room, where coffee was already waiting for him, and beside the coffee, letters and papers from the office.
穿好衣服后，斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇在身上洒了一些香水，拉下衬衫袖口，把香烟、皮夹、火柴和带有双链和封条的手表放进口袋里，然后抖出手帕，感觉自己干净了，尽管他不高兴，但他芳香四溢，健康，身体轻松，尽管他不高兴，他还是双腿轻轻摆动着走进餐厅，那里已经有咖啡在等着他，咖啡旁边还有办公室的信件和文件。

He read the letters. One was very unpleasant, from a merchant who was buying a forest on his wife’s property. To sell this forest was absolutely essential; but at present, until he was reconciled with his wife, the subject could not be discussed. The most unpleasant thing of all was that his pecuniary interests should in this way enter into the question of his reconciliation with his wife. And the idea that he might be led on by his interests, that he might seek a reconciliation with his wife on account of the sale of the forest—that idea hurt him.
他读了信。其中一个非常令人不快，来自一位商人，他正在妻子的土地上购买一片森林。出售这片森林是绝对必要的；但目前，在他与妻子和解之前，这个话题还不能讨论。最令人不快的是，他的金钱利益竟然以这种方式涉及到他与妻子的和解问题。他可能会被自己的利益所引导，可能会因出售森林而寻求与妻子和解，这种想法伤害了他。

When he had finished his letters, Stepan Arkadyevitch moved the office-papers close to him, rapidly looked through two pieces of business, made a few notes with a big pencil, and pushing away the papers, turned to his coffee. As he sipped his coffee, he opened a still damp morning paper, and began reading it.
写完信后，斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇把办公文件移到身边，迅速浏览了两份文件，用一支大铅笔做了一些笔记，然后推开文件，转向喝咖啡。他一边喝咖啡，一边打开一份还湿漉漉的晨报，开始阅读。

Stepan Arkadyevitch took in and read a liberal paper, not an extreme one, but one advocating the views held by the majority. And in spite of the fact that science, art, and politics had no special interest for him, he firmly held those views on all these subjects which were held by the majority and by his paper, and he only changed them when the majority changed them—or, more strictly speaking, he did not change them, but they imperceptibly changed of themselves within him.
斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇读了一份自由派报纸，不是一份极端的报纸，而是一份提倡大多数人观点的报纸。尽管他对科学、艺术和政治没有特别的兴趣，但他对所有这些主题都坚定地持有大多数人和他的论文所持有的观点，并且只有当大多数人改变它们时他才改变它们。 ——或者更严格地说，他并没有改变它们，但它们却在他的内心不知不觉地改变了。

Stepan Arkadyevitch had not chosen his political opinions or his views; these political opinions and views had come to him of themselves, just as he did not choose the shapes of his hat and coat, but simply took those that were being worn. And for him, living in a certain society—owing to the need, ordinarily developed at years of discretion, for some degree of mental activity—to have views was just as indispensable as to have a hat. If there was a reason for his preferring liberal to conservative views, which were held also by many of his circle, it arose not from his considering liberalism more rational, but from its being in closer accordance with his manner of life. The liberal party said that in Russia everything is wrong, and certainly Stepan Arkadyevitch had many debts and was decidedly short of money. The liberal party said that marriage is an institution quite out of date, and that it needs reconstruction; and family life certainly afforded Stepan Arkadyevitch little gratification, and forced him into lying and hypocrisy, which was so repulsive to his nature. The liberal party said, or rather allowed it to be understood, that religion is only a curb to keep in check the barbarous classes of the people; and Stepan Arkadyevitch could not get through even a short service without his legs aching from standing up, and could never make out what was the object of all the terrible and high-flown language about another world when life might be so very amusing in this world. And with all this, Stepan Arkadyevitch, who liked a joke, was fond of puzzling a plain man by saying that if he prided himself on his origin, he ought not to stop at Rurik and disown the first founder of his family—the monkey. And so Liberalism had become a habit of Stepan Arkadyevitch’s, and he liked his newspaper, as he did his cigar after dinner, for the slight fog it diffused in his brain. He read the leading article, in which it was maintained that it was quite senseless in our day to raise an outcry that radicalism was threatening to swallow up all conservative elements, and that the government ought to take measures to crush the revolutionary hydra; that, on the contrary, ‘in our opinion the danger lies not in that fantastic revolutionary hydra, but in the obstinacy of traditionalism clogging progress,’ etc., etc. He read another article, too, a financial one, which alluded to Bentham and Mill, and dropped some innuendoes reflecting on the ministry. With his characteristic quickwittedness he caught the drift of each innuendo, divined whence it came, at whom and on what ground it was aimed, and that afforded him, as it always did, a certain satisfaction. But today that satisfaction was embittered by Matrona Philimonovna’s advice and the unsatisfactory state of the household. He read, too, that Count Beist was rumored to have left for Wiesbaden, and that one need have no more gray hair, and of the sale of a light carriage, and of a young person seeking a situation; but these items of information did not give him, as usual, a quiet, ironical gratification. Having finished the paper, a second cup of coffee and a roll and butter, he got up, shaking the crumbs of the roll off his waistcoat; and, squaring his broad chest, he smiled joyously: not because there was anything particularly agreeable in his mind—the joyous smile was evoked by a good digestion.
斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇并没有选择他的政治观点或观点；他的观点是正确的。这些政治意见和观点是他自己产生的，就像他没有选择帽子和外套的形状，而只是选择了人们所戴的那些一样。对他来说，生活在某个社会中——由于需要经过多年的谨慎而发展起来的某种程度的心理活动——有观点就像有一顶帽子一样不可或缺。如果说他更喜欢自由主义而不是保守主义观点（他的圈子里的许多人也持有这种观点），那不是因为他认为自由主义更理性，而是因为它更符合他的生活方式。自由党说，在俄罗斯，一切都是错误的，斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇当然欠债很多，而且肯定缺钱。自由党表示，婚姻是一种已经过时的制度，需要重建；家庭生活确实给斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇带来了很少的满足，并迫使他撒谎和虚伪，这与他的本性是如此令人厌恶。自由党说，或者更确切地说允许这样理解，宗教只是一种遏制人民野蛮阶级的手段；斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇即使是做短暂的礼拜，他的腿也会因为站起来而酸痛，他也永远无法理解关于另一个世界的所有可怕而夸张的语言的目的是什么，而这个世界的生活可能是如此有趣。尽管如此，喜欢开玩笑的斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇却喜欢迷惑一个普通人，他说，如果他为自己的出身感到自豪，他就不应该停留在留里克，并与他家族的第一位创始人——猴子断绝关系。 就这样，自由主义成了斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇的习惯，他喜欢报纸，就像晚饭后抽雪茄一样，因为报纸在他的大脑中弥漫着淡淡的迷雾。他读了这篇主要文章，其中认为，在我们这个时代，对激进主义威胁要吞并所有保守派分子提出强烈抗议是毫无意义的，政府应该采取措施镇压革命九头蛇；相反，“在我们看来，危险不在于那梦幻般的革命九头蛇，而在于阻碍进步的传统主义的顽固”，等等。他还读了另一篇文章，一篇金融文章，其中提到了边沁和穆勒，并放弃了一些反思该部的暗示。凭借他特有的机智，他抓住了每一个暗示的要点，猜出它从何而来，针对谁，基于什么理由，这给了他，一如既往，一定的满足感。但今天，马特罗娜·菲利莫诺芙娜的建议和家庭状况的不尽如人意，让这种满足感变得更加痛苦。他还读到，据传贝斯特伯爵已前往威斯巴登，人们不再需要白发，出售一辆轻型马车，还有一个年轻人正在寻找工作；但这些信息并没有像往常一样给他带来平静的、讽刺的满足。读完报纸、第二杯咖啡、面包卷和黄油后，他站起来，抖掉背心上的面包屑；他挺起宽阔的胸膛，露出了愉快的微笑：并不是因为他心里有什么特别愉快的事情——愉快的微笑是由良好的消化引起的。

But this joyous smile at once recalled everything to him, and he grew thoughtful.
但这喜悦的笑容立刻让他想起了一切，他陷入了沉思。

Two childish voices (Stepan Arkadyevitch recognized the voices of Grisha, his youngest boy, and Tanya, his eldest girl) were heard outside the door. They were carrying something, and dropped it.
门外传来两个孩子气的声音（斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇认出了他最小的男孩格里沙和他最大的女孩塔尼娅的声音）。他们拿着一些东西，然后把它掉了。

‘I told you not to sit passengers on the roof,’ said the little girl in English; ‘there, pick them up!’
“我告诉过你不要让乘客坐在屋顶上，”小女孩用英语说道； “那儿，把他们捡起来！”

‘Everything’s in confusion,’ thought Stepan Arkadyevitch; ‘there are the children running about by themselves.’ And going to the door, he called them. They threw down the box, that represented a train, and came in to their father.
“一切都混乱不堪，”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇想。 “孩子们自己跑来跑去。”走到门口，他叫住了他们。他们扔下代表火车的盒子，走进父亲身边。

The little girl, her father’s favorite, ran up boldly, embraced him, and hung laughingly on his neck, enjoying as she always did the smell of scent that came from his whiskers. At last the little girl kissed his face, which was flushed from his stooping posture and beaming with tenderness, loosed her hands, and was about to run away again; but her father held her back.
父亲最宠爱的小女孩，大胆地跑上来，抱住了他，笑着挂在他的脖子上，一如既往地享受着他胡须上散发出来的香味。最后，小女孩亲吻了他因弯腰而泛红、满脸温柔的脸，松开了手，又准备跑开；但她的父亲阻止了她。

‘How is mamma?’ he asked, passing his hand over his daughter’s smooth, soft little neck. ‘Good morning,’ he said, smiling to the boy, who had come up to greet him. He was conscious that he loved the boy less, and always tried to be fair; but the boy felt it, and did not respond with a smile to his father’s chilly smile.
“妈妈怎么样？”他问道，把手放在女儿光滑柔软的小脖子上。 “早上好，”他微笑着对走过来迎接他的男孩说道。他意识到自己对这个男孩的爱少了一些，所以总是尽力做到公平。但男孩感觉到了，并没有对父亲冰冷的微笑做出回应。

‘Mamma? She is up,’ answered the girl.
'妈妈？她起来了。”女孩回答道。

Stepan Arkadyevitch sighed. ‘That means that she’s not slept again all night,’ he thought.
斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇叹了口气。 “这意味着她整晚都没有再睡。”他想。

‘Well, is she cheerful?’
“嗯，她高兴吗？”

The little girl knew that there was a quarrel between her father and mother, and that her mother could not be cheerful, and that her father must be aware of this, and that he was pretending when he asked about it so lightly. And she blushed for her father. He at once perceived it, and blushed too.
小女孩知道，爸爸和妈妈吵架了，妈妈高兴不起来，爸爸肯定也知道这一点，他这么轻描淡写地问起这件事，也是装的。她还为她的父亲脸红。他立刻意识到了这一点，也脸红了。

‘I don’t know,’ she said. ‘She did not say we must do our lessons, but she said we were to go for a walk with Miss Hoole to grandmamma’s.’
“我不知道，”她说。 “她没有说我们必须完成功课，但她说我们要和胡尔小姐一起去奶奶家散步。”

‘Well, go, Tanya, my darling. Oh, wait a minute, though,’ he said, still holding her and stroking her soft little hand.
“好吧，走吧，塔尼娅，我亲爱的。哦，等一下，”他说，仍然抱着她，抚摸着她柔软的小手。

He took off the mantelpiece, where he had put it yesterday, a little box of sweets, and gave her two, picking out her favorites, a chocolate and a fondant.
他取下昨天放的壁炉架上的一小盒糖果，给了她两块，挑出了她最喜欢的，一块巧克力和一块方旦糖。

‘For Grisha?’ said the little girl, pointing to the chocolate.
“给格里莎的？”小女孩指着巧克力说道。

‘Yes, yes.’ And still stroking her little shoulder, he kissed her on the roots of her hair and neck, and let her go.
“是的，是的。”他仍然抚摸着她的小肩膀，吻了她的发根和脖子，然后放开了她。

‘The carriage is ready,’ said Matvey; ‘but there’s some one to see you with a petition.’
“马车已经准备好了，”玛特维说道。 “但是有人带着请愿书来见你。”

‘Been here long?’ asked Stepan Arkadyevitch.
“来这里很久了？”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇问道。

‘Half an hour.’
'半小时。'

‘How many times have I told you to tell me at once?’
“我告诉过你多少次了，让你立刻告诉我？”

‘One must let you drink your coffee in peace, at least,’ said Matvey, in the affectionately gruff tone with which it was impossible to be angry.
“至少要让你安静地喝咖啡，”马特维用一种亲切而粗鲁的语气说道，这样的语气让人不可能生气。

‘Well, show the person up at once,’ said Oblonsky, frowning with vexation.
“好吧，立刻把那个人带过来。”奥布朗斯基苦恼地皱着眉头说道。

The petitioner, the widow of a staff captain Kalinin, came with a request impossible and unreasonable; but Stepan Arkadyevitch, as he generally did, made her sit down, heard her to the end attentively without interrupting her, and gave her detailed advice as to how and to whom to apply, and even wrote her, in his large, sprawling, good and legible hand, a confident and fluent little note to a personage who might be of use to her. Having got rid of the staff captain’s widow, Stepan Arkadyevitch took his hat and stopped to recollect whether he had forgotten anything. It appeared that he had forgotten nothing except what he wanted to forget—his wife.
请愿人是上尉加里宁的遗孀，她提出了一个不可能且无理的要求；但是斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇像往常一样，让她坐下来，专心地听她讲完，没有打断她，就如何申请以及向谁申请提出了详细的建议，甚至还给她写了一封信，用他那篇大而散漫的好文章。和清晰的手，一个自信而流畅的小纸条，写给可能对她有用的人物。摆脱了参谋长的遗孀后，斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇拿起帽子，停下来回忆自己是否忘记了什么。看来他什么也没忘记，除了他想忘记的——他的妻子。

‘Ah, yes!’ He bowed his head, and his handsome face assumed a harassed expression. ‘To go, or not to go!’ he said to himself; and an inner voice told him he must not go, that nothing could come of it but falsity; that to amend, to set right their relations was impossible, because it was impossible to make her attractive again and able to inspire love, or to make him an old man, not susceptible to love. Except deceit and lying nothing could come of it now; and deceit and lying were opposed to his nature.
“啊，是啊！”他低下头，英俊的脸上露出了烦恼的表情。 “走还是不走！”他对自己说。内心的一个声音告诉他，他不能去，因为除了虚假之外，不会有任何结果。修正、纠正他们的关系是不可能的，因为不可能让她再次有吸引力并能够激发爱情，也不可能让他成为一个老人，不再容易受到爱的影响。现在除了欺骗和谎言之外，什么也没有了。欺骗和说谎违背了他的本性。

‘It must be some time, though: it can’t go on like this,’ he said, trying to give himself courage. He squared his chest, took out a cigarette, took two whiffs at it, flung it into a mother-of-pearl ashtray, and with rapid steps walked through the drawing room, and opened the other door into his wife’s bedroom.
“不过，这肯定需要一段时间：不能再这样下去了，”他一边说，一边努力给自己鼓起勇气。他挺胸，掏出一根烟，吸了两口，扔进珍珠母烟灰缸里，快步穿过客厅，打开另一扇门，进了妻子的卧室。

Chapter 4
第4章

Darya Alexandrovna, in a dressing jacket, and with her now scanty, once luxuriant and beautiful hair fastened up with hairpins on the nape of her neck, with a sunken, thin face and large, startled eyes, which looked prominent from the thinness of her face, was standing among a litter of all sorts of things scattered all over the room, before an open bureau, from which she was taking something. Hearing her husband’s steps, she stopped, looking towards the door, and trying assiduously to give her features a severe and contemptuous expression. She felt she was afraid of him, and afraid of the coming interview. She was just attempting to do what she had attempted to do ten times already in these last three days—to sort out the children’s things and her own, so as to take them to her mother’s—and again she could not bring herself to do this; but now again, as each time before, she kept saying to herself, ‘that things cannot go on like this, that she must take some step’ to punish him, put him to shame, avenge on him some little part at least of the suffering he had caused her. She still continued to tell herself that she should leave him, but she was conscious that this was impossible; it was impossible because she could not get out of the habit of regarding him as her husband and loving him. Besides this, she realized that if even here in her own house she could hardly manage to look after her five children properly, they would be still worse off where she was going with them all. As it was, even in the course of these three days, the youngest was unwell from being given unwholesome soup, and the others had almost gone without their dinner the day before. She was conscious that it was impossible to go away; but, cheating herself, she went on all the same sorting out her things and pretending she was going.
达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜，穿着睡衣，曾经茂密美丽的头发现在稀疏，用发夹别在颈后，她的脸凹陷而瘦弱，一双大眼睛在她瘦弱的身材中显得格外突出。她正站在房间里散落一地的一堆乱七八糟的东西中间，站在一个敞开的书桌前，她正在从里面拿一些东西。听到丈夫的脚步声，她停了下来，看向门口，努力让自己的脸上露出严厉而轻蔑的表情。她觉得她害怕他，害怕即将到来的采访。她只是想做这三天里已经尝试过十次的事情——把孩子们的东西和她自己的东西整理好，以便把它们带到她母亲那里——但她又无法让自己这样做。 ;但现在，就像以前的每一次一样，她不断地对自己说，“事情不能再这样下去了，她必须采取一些措施”来惩罚他，让他蒙羞，至少为他报仇。他给她带来的痛苦。她仍然不断地告诉自己，她应该离开他，但她知道这是不可能的；不可能，因为她无法摆脱视他为丈夫、爱他的习惯。除此之外，她意识到，即使在自己家里，她也很难照顾好五个孩子，但她和他们一起去的地方，他们的处境会更糟。事实上，这三天里，最小的孩子因为喝了不卫生的汤而身体不适，而其他人前一天几乎没有吃晚饭。 她知道自己不可能离开。但是，她欺骗自己，继续收拾东西，假装要走。

Seeing her husband, she dropped her hands into the drawer of the bureau as though looking for something, and only looked round at him when he had come quite up to her. But her face, to which she tried to give a severe and resolute expression, betrayed bewilderment and suffering.
看到丈夫，她把手伸进衣柜的抽屉里，似乎在寻找什么，等他走到她跟前，才回头看了他一眼。但她试图表现出严肃而坚决的表情，却暴露了她的困惑和痛苦。

‘Dolly!’ he said in a subdued and timid voice. He bent his head towards his shoulder and tried to look pitiful and humble, but for all that he was radiant with freshness and health. In a rapid glance she scanned his figure that beamed with health and freshness. ‘Yes, he is happy and content!’ she thought; ‘while I.... And that disgusting good nature, which every one likes him for and praises—I hate that good nature of his,’ she thought. Her mouth stiffened, the muscles of the cheek contracted on the right side of her pale, nervous face.
“多莉！”他用低沉而胆怯的声音说道。他把头低向肩膀，试图表现出可怜和谦虚的样子，但尽管如此，他还是容光焕发，充满活力和健康。她飞快地扫了一眼他那充满健康和活力的身影。 “是的，他很幸福，很满足！”她想。 “而我……还有那令人厌恶的善良本性，每个人都喜欢他并赞扬他——我讨厌他的善良本性，”她想。她的嘴僵硬了，苍白、紧张的脸右侧的脸颊肌肉收缩。

‘What do you want?’ she said in a rapid, deep, unnatural voice.
“你想要什么？”她用快速、低沉、不自然的声音说道。

‘Dolly!’ he repeated, with a quiver in his voice. ‘Anna is coming today.’
“多莉！”他重复道，声音颤抖。 “安娜今天要来。”

‘Well, what is that to me? I can’t see her!’ she cried.
‘好吧，那与我有什么关系？我看不见她！”她哭道。

‘But you must, really, Dolly...’
“但是你必须，真的，多莉……”

‘Go away, go away, go away!’ she shrieked, not looking at him, as though this shriek were called up by physical pain.
“走开，走开，走开！”她尖叫着，没有看他，仿佛这种尖叫是由身体疼痛引起的。

Stepan Arkadyevitch could be calm when he thought of his wife, he could hope that she would come round, as Matvey expressed it, and could quietly go on reading his paper and drinking his coffee; but when he saw her tortured, suffering face, heard the tone of her voice, submissive to fate and full of despair, there was a catch in his breath and a lump in his throat, and his eyes began to shine with tears.
当斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇想起他的妻子时，他会感到平静，他会希望她能醒悟，正如马特维所说的那样，他可以安静地继续读他的报纸，喝他的咖啡。但当他看到她那饱受折磨、痛苦的脸，听到她那听天由命、充满绝望的语气时，他呼吸一滞，喉咙哽住，眼里开始闪烁着泪光。

‘My God! what have I done? Dolly! For God’s sake!.... You know....’ He could not go on; there was a sob in his throat.
'我的上帝！我做了什么？多莉！看在上帝的份上！……你知道……”他说不下去了；他喉咙里发出一声抽泣。

She shut the bureau with a slam, and glanced at him.
她“砰”的一声关上了柜子，看了他一眼。

‘Dolly, what can I say?.... One thing: forgive...Remember, cannot nine years of my life atone for an instant....’
“多莉，我能说什么？……有一件事：原谅……记住，我生命的九年不能暂时赎罪……”

She dropped her eyes and listened, expecting what he would say, as it were beseeching him in some way or other to make her believe differently.
她垂下眼睛听着，期待着他会说什么，因为那是在恳求他以某种方式让她有不同的信念。

‘—instant of passion?’ he said, and would have gone on, but at that word, as at a pang of physical pain, her lips stiffened again, and again the muscles of her right cheek worked.
“——激情的瞬间？”他说，并想继续说下去，但是听到这个词，就像感受到身体上的剧痛一样，她的嘴唇再次僵硬，右脸颊的肌肉再次活动起来。

‘Go away, go out of the room!’ she shrieked still more shrilly, ‘and don’t talk to me of your passion and your loathsomeness.’
“走开，走出房间！”她尖叫得更加尖锐，“别跟我说你的激情和你的厌恶。”

She tried to go out, but tottered, and clung to the back of a chair to support herself. His face relaxed, his lips swelled, his eyes were swimming with tears.
她试图出去，但摇摇欲坠，只能靠在椅背上支撑自己。他的脸放松了，嘴唇肿胀，眼睛里充满了泪水。

‘Dolly!’ he said, sobbing now; ‘for mercy’s sake, think of the children; they are not to blame! I am to blame, and punish me, make me expiate my fault. Anything I can do, I am ready to do anything! I am to blame, no words can express how much I am to blame! But, Dolly, forgive me!’
“多莉！”他抽泣着说道。 ‘看在怜悯的份上，想想孩子们；他们不应该受到责备！我有罪，惩罚我，让我赎罪。任何我能做的事，我都准备好做任何事！我有罪，任何言语都无法表达我的罪有多大！但是，多莉，请原谅我！”

She sat down. He listened to her hard, heavy breathing, and he was unutterably sorry for her. She tried several times to begin to speak, but could not. He waited.
她坐下了。他听着她粗重的呼吸声，心里有说不出的心疼她。她好几次想开口说话，但都说不出来。他等了。

‘You remember the children, Stiva, to play with them; but I remember them, and know that this means their ruin,’ she said—obviously one of the phrases she had more than once repeated to herself in the course of the last few days.
“你记得孩子们，斯蒂瓦，和他们一起玩； “但我记得他们，并且知道这意味着他们的毁灭。”她说道——显然这是她在过去几天里不止一次对自己重复的一句话。

She had called him ‘Stiva,’ and he glanced at her with gratitude, and moved to take her hand, but she drew back from him with aversion.
她叫他“斯蒂瓦”，他感激地看了她一眼，并伸手握住她的手，但她厌恶地从他身边退开。

‘I think of the children, and for that reason I would do anything in the world to save them, but I don’t myself know how to save them. By taking them away from their father, or by leaving them with a vicious father—yes, a vicious father.... Tell me, after what...has happened, can we live together? Is that possible? Tell me, eh, is it possible?’ she repeated, raising her voice, ‘after my husband, the father of my children, enters into a love affair with his own children’s governess?’
“我想到了孩子们，因此我会尽一切努力来拯救他们，但我自己不知道如何拯救他们。把他们从他们的父亲身边带走，或者把他们留给一个恶毒的父亲——是的，一个恶毒的父亲……告诉我，在……发生了什么事之后，我们可以生活在一起吗？那可能吗？告诉我，呃，这可能吗？”她提高了声音重复道，“在我的丈夫，我孩子的父亲，与他自己孩子的家庭教师发生恋情之后？”

‘But what could I do? what could I do?’ he kept saying in a pitiful voice, not knowing what he was saying, as his head sank lower and lower.
‘但是我能做什么呢？ “我能做什么？”他不断地用可怜的声音说道，不知道自己在说什么，头越来越低。

‘You are loathsome to me, repulsive!’ she shrieked, getting more and more heated. ‘Your tears mean nothing! You have never loved me; you have neither heart nor honorable feeling! You are hateful to me, disgusting, a stranger—yes, a complete stranger!’ With pain and wrath she uttered the word so terrible to herself—stranger.
“你让我感到厌恶、令人厌恶！”她尖叫道，声音越来越激动。 ‘你的眼泪毫无意义！你从来没有爱过我；你既没有良心，也没有荣誉感！你对我来说是可恨的、令人厌恶的、一个陌生人——是的，一个完全的陌生人！”带着痛苦和愤怒，她对自己说出了这个如此可怕的词——陌生人。

He looked at her, and the fury expressed in her face alarmed and amazed him. He did not understand how his pity for her exasperated her. She saw in him sympathy for her, but not love. ‘No, she hates me. She will not forgive me,’ he thought.
他看着她，她脸上所表现出的愤怒让他感到震惊和惊讶。他不明白他对她的怜悯如何激怒了她。她在他身上看到的是对她的同情，而不是爱。 ‘不，她恨我。她不会原谅我的，”他想。

‘It is awful! awful!’ he said.
'太糟糕了！太糟糕了！”他说。

At that moment in the next room a child began to cry; probably it had fallen down. Darya Alexandrovna listened, and her face suddenly softened.
就在这时，隔壁房间里有一个孩子开始哭了。也许它已经掉下来了。达里娅·亚历山德罗芙娜听了，脸色突然变得柔和起来。

She seemed to be pulling herself together for a few seconds, as though she did not know where she was, and what she was doing, and getting up rapidly, she moved towards the door.
她似乎振作了几秒钟，仿佛不知道自己在哪里，在做什么，然后迅速站起来，向门口走去。

‘Well, she loves my child,’ he thought, noticing the change of her face at the child’s cry, ‘my child: how can she hate me?’
“好吧，她爱我的孩子，”他想，注意到孩子哭声时她脸色的变化，“我的孩子：她怎么能恨我呢？”

‘Dolly, one word more,’ he said, following her.
“多莉，再说一个字。”他跟在她身后说道。

‘If you come near me, I will call in the servants, the children! They may all know you are a scoundrel! I am going away at once, and you may live here with your mistress!’
‘如果你靠近我，我就会叫仆人和孩子们来！他们可能都知道你是个无赖！我马上就走，你就和你的女主人住在这里吧！

And she went out, slamming the door.
她出去了，关上了门。

Stepan Arkadyevitch sighed, wiped his face, and with a subdued tread walked out of the room. ‘Matvey says she will come round; but how? I don’t see the least chance of it. Ah, oh, how horrible it is! And how vulgarly she shouted,’ he said to himself, remembering her shriek and the words—‘scoundrel’ and ‘mistress.’ ‘And very likely the maids were listening! Horribly vulgar! horrible!’ Stepan Arkadyevitch stood a few seconds alone, wiped his face, squared his chest, and walked out of the room.
斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇叹了口气，擦了擦脸，迈着轻柔的步伐走出了房间。 “马特维说她会醒悟的；但如何呢？我不认为有任何可能。啊啊啊，这是多么可怕啊！她的喊声多么粗俗啊，”他自言自语道，想起了她的尖叫声和那些词——“恶棍”和“情妇”。“很可能女仆们在听！”极其庸俗！太可怕了！” 斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇独自站了几秒钟，擦了擦脸，挺起胸膛，走出了房间。

It was Friday, and in the dining room the German watchmaker was winding up the clock. Stepan Arkadyevitch remembered his joke about this punctual, bald watchmaker, ‘that the German was wound up for a whole lifetime himself, to wind up watches,’ and he smiled. Stepan Arkadyevitch was fond of a joke: ‘And maybe she will come round! That’s a good expression, ‘come round,’’ he thought. ‘I must repeat that.’
那是星期五，餐厅里德国钟表匠正在给钟上发条。斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇想起了他对这位准时的秃顶钟表匠的玩笑，“这个德国人自己花了一辈子的时间来给手表上发条”，他笑了。斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇喜欢开玩笑：“也许她会醒过来！”这是一个很好的表达方式，“过来吧，”他想。 “我必须重复一遍。”

‘Matvey!’ he shouted. ‘Arrange everything with Darya in the sitting room for Anna Arkadyevna,’ he said to Matvey when he came in.
“马特维！”他喊道。 “和达里娅一起在客厅里为安娜·阿尔卡季耶芙娜安排好一切，”他进来时对马特维说道。

‘Yes, sir.’
'是的先生。'

Stepan Arkadyevitch put on his fur coat and went out onto the steps.
斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇穿上毛皮大衣，走到台阶上。

‘You won’t dine at home?’ said Matvey, seeing him off.
“你不在家吃饭吗？”马特维送行时说道。

‘That’s as it happens. But here’s for the housekeeping,’ he said, taking ten roubles from his pocketbook. ‘That’ll be enough.’
‘事情就是这样。但这是用来做家务的。”他一边说，一边从钱包里掏出十卢布。 “这就足够了。”

‘Enough or not enough, we must make it do,’ said Matvey, slamming the carriage door and stepping back onto the steps.
“无论够不够，我们都必须做到这一点。”马特维说着，关上马车门，走回台阶上。

Darya Alexandrovna meanwhile having pacified the child, and knowing from the sound of the carriage that he had gone off, went back again to her bedroom. It was her solitary refuge from the household cares which crowded upon her directly she went out from it. Even now, in the short time she had been in the nursery, the English governess and Matrona Philimonovna had succeeded in putting several questions to her, which did not admit of delay, and which only she could answer: ‘What were the children to put on for their walk? Should they have any milk? Should not a new cook be sent for?’
与此同时，达里娅·亚历山德罗芙娜安抚了孩子，从马车的声音中知道他已经走了，于是又回到了自己的卧室。这是她唯一的避难所，她一走出家门，就可以摆脱家务事的困扰。即使现在，在她进入托儿所的短暂时间里，英国女家庭教师和马特罗娜·菲利蒙诺芙娜已经成功地向她提出了几个问题，这些问题不容拖延，只有她才能回答：“孩子们要提出什么问题？”继续散步吗？他们应该喝牛奶吗？难道不应该派一个新厨师吗？

‘Ah, let me alone, let me alone!’ she said, and going back to her bedroom she sat down in the same place as she had sat when talking to her husband, clasping tightly her thin hands with the rings that slipped down on her bony fingers, and fell to going over in her memory all the conversation. ‘He has gone! But has he broken it off with her?’ she thought. ‘Can it be he sees her? Why didn’t I ask him! No, no, reconciliation is impossible. Even if we remain in the same house, we are strangers—strangers forever!’ She repeated again with special significance the word so dreadful to her. ‘And how I loved him! my God, how I loved him!.... How I loved him! And now don’t I love him? Don’t I love him more than before? The most horrible thing is,’ she began, but did not finish her thought, because Matrona Philimonovna put her head in at the door.
“啊，别打扰我，别打扰我！”她说着，回到自己的卧室，坐在和丈夫说话时坐的地方，紧紧地握着她那双瘦瘦的手，戒指滑落到了她的身上。她瘦骨嶙峋的手指，开始在记忆中回忆起所有的谈话。 '他走了！但他和她断绝关系了吗？”她想。 “难道他看到她了？我为什么不问他！不，不，和解是不可能的。即使我们留在同一所房子里，我们也是陌生人——永远的陌生人！”她又以特别的意义重复了这个对她来说如此可怕的词。 ‘我多么爱他啊！天哪，我多么爱他！……我多么爱他！现在我不爱他了吗？我不是比以前更爱他了吗？最可怕的是，”她开始说道，但她的想法并没有结束，因为马特罗娜·菲利莫诺夫娜把头伸到了门口。

‘Let us send for my brother,’ she said; ‘he can get a dinner anyway, or we shall have the children getting nothing to eat till six again, like yesterday.’
“我们去叫我哥哥来吧，”她说。 “无论如何，他可以得到一顿晚餐，否则我们将让孩子们再次在六点之前没有东西吃，就像昨天一样。”

‘Very well, I will come directly and see about it. But did you send for some new milk?’
‘好，我就直接过来看看。但是你派人去拿一些新牛奶了吗？

And Darya Alexandrovna plunged into the duties of the day, and drowned her grief in them for a time.
达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜一头扎进了当天的职责中，暂时淹没了她的悲伤。

Chapter 5
第5章

Stepan Arkadyevitch had learned easily at school, thanks to his excellent abilities, but he had been idle and mischievous, and therefore was one of the lowest in his class. But in spite of his habitually dissipated mode of life, his inferior grade in the service, and his comparative youth, he occupied the honorable and lucrative position of president of one of the government boards at Moscow. This post he had received through his sister Anna’s husband, Alexey Alexandrovitch Karenin, who held one of the most important positions in the ministry to whose department the Moscow office belonged. But if Karenin had not got his brotherin-law this berth, then through a hundred other personages— brothers, sisters, cousins, uncles, and aunts—Stiva Oblonsky would have received this post, or some other similar one, together with the salary of six thousand absolutely needful for him, as his affairs, in spite of his wife’s considerable property, were in an embarrassed condition.
斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇由于能力出色，在学校里学得很轻松，但他又懒又调皮，因此在班上成绩最差。尽管他的生活方式一向放荡，军衔低下，而且相对年轻，但他还是在莫斯科担任了一个政府委员会主席，这一职位光荣而收入丰厚。这个职位是他通过妹妹安娜的丈夫阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇·卡列宁获得的，卡列宁担任外交部最重要的职位之一，莫斯科办事处隶属于该部门。但是，如果卡列宁没有让他的姐夫获得这个职位，那么通过其他一百位人物——兄弟、姐妹、表兄弟姐妹、叔叔和阿姨——斯蒂瓦·奥布隆斯基就会获得这个职位，或者其他类似的职位，连同工资六千对他来说是绝对必要的，因为尽管他妻子拥有大量财产，但他的事务却处于尴尬的境地。

Half Moscow and Petersburg were friends and relations of Stepan Arkadyevitch. He was born in the midst of those who had been and are the powerful ones of this world. One-third of the men in the government, the older men, had been friends of his father’s, and had known him in petticoats; another third were his intimate chums, and the remainder were friendly acquaintances. Consequently the distributors of earthly blessings in the shape of places, rents, shares, and such, were all his friends, and could not overlook one of their own set; and Oblonsky had no need to make any special exertion to get a lucrative post. He had only not to refuse things, not to show jealousy, not to be quarrelsome or take offense, all of which from his characteristic good nature he never did. It would have struck him as absurd if he had been told that he would not get a position with the salary he required, especially as he expected nothing out of the way; he only wanted what the men of his own age and standing did get, and he was no worse qualified for performing duties of the kind than any other man.
莫斯科和彼得堡的一半都是斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇的朋友和亲戚。他出生在这个世界曾经和现在的强者中间。政府里三分之一的人，即年长的人，都是他父亲的朋友，并且认识他的父亲。另外三分之一是他的亲密好友，其余的都是友好的熟人。因此，以土地、租金、股份等形式提供尘世祝福的人都是他的朋友，不能忽视他们自己的朋友。奥布隆斯基不需要付出任何特别的努力就能获得一份利润丰厚的职位。他只要不拒绝，不嫉妒，不争吵，不生气，而出于他特有的善良本性，他从不这么做。如果他被告知他无法获得所需薪水的职位，他会觉得很荒谬，特别是因为他预计不会有任何意外；他只想要与他同龄、同地位的人能得到的东西，而他履行此类职责的资格并不比其他人差。

Stepan Arkadyevitch was not merely liked by all who knew him for his good humor, but for his bright disposition, and his unquestionable honesty. In him, in his handsome, radiant figure, his sparkling eyes, black hair and eyebrows, and the white and red of his face, there was something which produced a physical effect of kindliness and good humor on the people who met him. ‘Aha! Stiva! Oblonsky! Here he is!’ was almost always said with a smile of delight on meeting him. Even though it happened at times that after a conversation with him it seemed that nothing particularly delightful had happened, the next day, and the next, every one was just as delighted at meeting him again.
斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇不仅因为他的幽默而受到所有认识他的人的喜爱，还因为他开朗的性格和不容置疑的诚实。在他身上，他英俊、容光焕发的身材、闪闪发光的眼睛、黑发和眉毛、白红相间的脸庞，使见到他的人产生一种亲切和幽默的物理效果。 ‘啊哈！斯蒂瓦！奥布朗斯基！他来了！”见到他时，人们几乎总是带着高兴的微笑说道。尽管有时与他交谈后，似乎并没有发生什么特别愉快的事情，但第二天，再后天，每个人都同样为再次见到他而高兴。

After filling for three years the post of president of one of the government boards at Moscow, Stepan Arkadyevitch had won the respect, as well as the liking, of his fellow-officials, subordinates, and superiors, and all who had had business with him. The principal qualities in Stepan Arkadyevitch which had gained him this universal respect in the service consisted, in the first place, of his extreme indulgence for others, founded on a consciousness of his own shortcomings; secondly, of his perfect liberalism—not the liberalism he read of in the papers, but the liberalism that was in his blood, in virtue of which he treated all men perfectly equally and exactly the same, whatever their fortune or calling might be; and thirdly—the most important point—his complete indifference to the business in which he was engaged, in consequence of which he was never carried away, and never made mistakes.
在担任莫斯科政府委员会主席三年后，斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇赢得了他的同事、下属、上级以及所有与他有过业务往来的人的尊重和喜爱。 。斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇的主要品质使他在服务中赢得了普遍的尊重，首先是他在意识到自己的缺点的基础上对他人的极度宽容；其次，他完美的自由主义——不是他在报纸上读到的自由主义，而是他血液中的自由主义，凭借这种自由主义，他完全平等地对待所有人，无论他们的命运或职业如何；第三，也是最重要的一点，他对自己所从事的工作完全漠不关心，因此他从不得意忘形，也从不犯错误。

On reaching the offices of the board, Stepan Arkadyevitch, escorted by a deferential porter with a portfolio, went into his little private room, put on his uniform, and went into the boardroom. The clerks and copyists all rose, greeting him with good-humored deference. Stepan Arkadyevitch moved quickly, as ever, to his place, shook hands with his colleagues, and sat down. He made a joke or two, and talked just as much as was consistent with due decorum, and began work. No one knew better than Stepan Arkadyevitch how to hit on the exact line between freedom, simplicity, and official stiffness necessary for the agreeable conduct of business. A secretary, with the good-humored deference common to every one in Stepan Arkadyevitch’s office, came up with papers, and began to speak in the familiar and easy tone which had been introduced by Stepan Arkadyevitch.
到达董事会办公室后，斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇在一位拿着公文包的恭敬的搬运工的护送下，走进他的小私人房间，穿上制服，走进董事会会议室。职员和抄写员全都站了起来，幽默地恭敬地向他打招呼。斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇一如既往地迅速走到自己的位置，与同事们握手，然后坐下。他开了一两个玩笑，并按照应有的礼仪讲了很多话，然后开始工作。没有人比斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇更清楚如何在自由、简单和官方僵化之间找到准确的界限，而这对于愉快的商业行为是必需的。一位秘书带着斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇办公室里每个人都共有的幽默恭敬态度，拿出文件，开始用斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇介绍的熟悉而轻松的语气说话。

‘We have succeeded in getting the information from the government department of Penza. Here, would you care?....’
“我们已成功从奔萨政府部门获取信息。在这里，你会关心吗？......”

‘You’ve got them at last?’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch, laying his finger on the paper. ‘Now, gentlemen....’
“你终于找到了？”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇把手指放在纸上说道。 “现在，先生们……”

And the sitting of the board began.
董事会开始开会。

‘If they knew,’ he thought, bending his head with a significant air as he listened to the report, ‘what a guilty little boy their president was half an hour ago.’ And his eyes were laughing during the reading of the report. Till two o’clock the sitting would go on without a break, and at two o’clock there would be an interval and luncheon.
“如果他们知道的话，”他一边听着报告，一边严肃地低着头想，“半小时前他们的总统是个多么内疚的小男孩啊。”在读报告的过程中，他的眼睛在笑。坐到两点钟就没有休息，两点钟就有中场休息和午餐。

It was not yet two, when the large glass doors of the boardroom suddenly opened and someone came in.
还不到两点，会议室的大玻璃门突然打开，有人走了进来。

All the officials sitting on the further side under the portrait of the Tsar and the eagle, delighted at any distraction, looked round at the door; but the doorkeeper standing at the door at once drove out the intruder, and closed the glass door after him.
所有坐在沙皇和鹰肖像下另一边的官员们都高兴地看着门口。但站在门口的看门人立即赶走了闯入者，并关上了玻璃门。

When the case had been read through, Stepan Arkadyevitch got up and stretched, and by way of tribute to the liberalism of the times took out a cigarette in the boardroom and went into his private room. Two of the members of the board, the old veteran in the service, Nikitin, and the Kammerjunker Grinevitch, went in with him.
案情宣读完后，斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇起身伸了个懒腰，为了向当时的自由主义致敬，他在会议室里拿出一支香烟，走进了自己的私人房间。董事会的两名成员，即老兵尼基京和卡默军警格里内维奇，和他一起进去了。

‘We shall have time to finish after lunch,’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch.
“午饭后我们就有时间完成任务，”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇说。

‘To be sure we shall!’ said Nikitin.
“我们肯定会的！”尼基丁说。

‘A pretty sharp fellow this Fomin must be,’ said Grinevitch of one of the persons taking part in the case they were examining.
“这个福明一定是个非常精明的人，”格林内维奇谈到参与他们正在审查的案件的一名人员时说。

Stepan Arkadyevitch frowned at Grinevitch’s words, giving him thereby to understand that it was improper to pass judgment prematurely, and made him no reply.
斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇听了格里内维奇的话，皱起了眉头，这让他明白过早地做出判断是不合适的，因此没有回答他。

‘Who was that came in?’ he asked the doorkeeper.
“进来的是谁？”他问门卫。

‘Someone, your excellency, crept in without permission directly my back was turned. He was asking for you. I told him: when the members come out, then...’
“大人，有人未经允许就在我背对着我的时候悄悄溜了进来。他正在找你。我告诉他：等成员们出来之后……”

‘Where is he?’
'他在哪里？'

‘Maybe he’s gone into the passage, but here he comes anyway. That is he,’ said the doorkeeper, pointing to a strongly built, broad-shouldered man with a curly beard, who, without taking off his sheepskin cap, was running lightly and rapidly up the worn steps of the stone staircase. One of the members going down—a lean official with a portfolio—stood out of his way and looked disapprovingly at the legs of the stranger, then glanced inquiringly at Oblonsky.
“也许他已经进入通道了，但他还是来了。”就是他。”看门人指着一个体格健壮、肩膀宽阔、留着卷曲胡须的男人说道，他没有摘下羊皮帽，正轻快地跑上石阶破旧的台阶。其中一名下楼的成员——一位拿着公文包的瘦削官员——站了起来，不以为然地看着陌生人的腿，然后询问地看了一眼奥布朗斯基。

Stepan Arkadyevitch was standing at the top of the stairs. His good-naturedly beaming face above the embroidered collar of his uniform beamed more than ever when he recognized the man coming up.
斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇站在楼梯顶上。当他认出那个男人走过来时，他制服绣花衣领上方那张和蔼可亲、笑容满面的脸比以往任何时候都更加灿烂。

‘Why, it’s actually you, Levin, at last!’ he said with a friendly mocking smile, scanning Levin as he approached. ‘How is it you have deigned to look me up in this den?’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch, and not content with shaking hands, he kissed his friend. ‘Have you been here long?’
“哎呀，终于是你了，莱文！”他带着友好的嘲讽微笑说道，一边走近莱文，一边扫视着他。 “你怎么会屈尊到这个书房来找我？”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇说道，他不满足于握手，还吻了他的朋友。 '你在这里很久了吗？'

‘I have just come, and very much wanted to see you,’ said Levin, looking shyly and at the same time angrily and uneasily around.
“我刚来，很想见你。”莱文说，他害羞地看着周围，同时又愤怒又不安。

‘Well, let’s go into my room,’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch, who knew his friend’s sensitive and irritable shyness, and, taking his arm, he drew him along, as though guiding him through dangers.
“好吧，我们进我的房间去吧，”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇说，他知道他朋友的敏感而易怒的害羞，于是拉着他的胳膊，把他拉着走，仿佛要引导他度过危险。

Stepan Arkadyevitch was on familiar terms with almost all his acquaintances, and called almost all of them by their Christian names: old men of sixty, boys of twenty, actors, ministers, merchants, and adjutant-generals, so that many of his intimate chums were to be found at the extreme ends of the social ladder, and would have been very much surprised to learn that they had, through the medium of Oblonsky, something in common. He was the familiar friend of everyone with whom he took a glass of champagne, and he took a glass of champagne with everyone, and when in consequence he met any of his disreputable chums, as he used in joke to call many of his friends, in the presence of his subordinates, he well knew how, with his characteristic tact, to diminish the disagreeable impression made on them. Levin was not a disreputable chum, but Oblonsky, with his ready tact, felt that Levin fancied he might not care to show his intimacy with him before his subordinates, and so he made haste to take him off into his room.
斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇与他几乎所有的熟人都关系密切，几乎都用他们的教名来称呼他们：六十岁的老人，二十岁的男孩，演员，部长，商人和副官，因此他的许多亲密好友如果我们发现他们处于社会阶梯的最末端，如果他们通过奥布隆斯基的媒介发现了一些共同点，一定会感到非常惊讶。他是每个人都熟悉的朋友，他和每个人都喝了一杯香槟，他和每个人都喝了一杯香槟，结果当他遇到了任何一个不名誉的朋友时，正如他开玩笑地称呼他的许多朋友一样，在下属面前，他很清楚如何以其特有的机智来减少给他们留下的不愉快的印象。列文并不是一个声名狼藉的朋友，但奥布隆斯基以他的机智，觉得列文可能不愿意在下属面前表现出与他的亲密关系，所以他赶紧把他带进了自己的房间。

Levin was almost of the same age as Oblonsky; their intimacy did not rest merely on champagne. Levin had been the friend and companion of his early youth. They were fond of one another in spite of the difference of their characters and tastes, as friends are fond of one another who have been together in early youth. But in spite of this, each of them—as is often the way with men who have selected careers of different kinds—though in discussion he would even justify the other’s career, in his heart despised it. It seemed to each of them that the life he led himself was the only real life, and the life led by his friend was a mere phantasm. Oblonsky could not restrain a slight mocking smile at the sight of Levin. How often he had seen him come up to Moscow from the country where he was doing something, but what precisely Stepan Arkadyevitch could never quite make out, and indeed he took no interest in the matter. Levin arrived in Moscow always excited and in a hurry, rather ill at ease and irritated by his own want of ease, and for the most part with a perfectly new, unexpected view of things. Stepan Arkadyevitch laughed at this, and liked it. In the same way Levin in his heart despised the town mode of life of his friend, and his official duties, which he laughed at, and regarded as trifling. But the difference was that Oblonsky, as he was doing the same as every one did, laughed complacently and good-humoredly, while Levin laughed without complacency and sometimes angrily.
莱文几乎和奥布朗斯基同龄。他们的亲密不仅仅停留在香槟上。莱文是他早年的朋友和同伴。尽管性格和品味不同，他们却彼此喜欢，就像年轻时在一起的朋友彼此喜欢一样。但尽管如此，他们每个人——就像选择不同职业的人通常的方式一样——尽管在讨论中他甚至会为对方的职业辩护，但内心却鄙视它。在他们每个人看来，他自己过的生活才是唯一真实的生活，而他朋友过的生活只是一个幻影。奥布朗斯基一看到莱文就忍不住露出一丝嘲讽的微笑。他多少次看到他从他正在做某事的国家来到莫斯科，但斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇永远无法弄清楚到底是什么，事实上，他对这件事不感兴趣。莱文抵达莫斯科时总是兴奋而匆忙，但他却因自己的不自在而感到不安和恼怒，并且在很大程度上对事物有了全新的、意想不到的看法。斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇对此大笑起来，并且很喜欢。同样，列文心里鄙视他朋友的城镇生活方式和他的公务，他对此嗤之以鼻，认为这些都是微不足道的。但不同的是，奥布隆斯基和大家一样，笑得得意而幽默，而莱文则笑得很不自满，有时甚至有些愤怒。

‘We have long been expecting you,’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch, going into his room and letting Levin’s hand go as though to show that here all danger was over. ‘I am very, very glad to see you,’ he went on. ‘Well, how are you? Eh? When did you come?’
“我们早就在等你了，”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇一边说，一边走进自己的房间，松开了列文的手，仿佛是在表明一切危险都已经过去了。 “我非常非常高兴见到你，”他继续说道。 '那，你好吗？呃？你什么时候来？'

Levin was silent, looking at the unknown faces of Oblonsky’s two companions, and especially at the hand of the elegant Grinevitch, which had such long white fingers, such long yellow filbert-shaped nails, and such huge shining studs on the shirt-cuff, that apparently they absorbed all his attention, and allowed him no freedom of thought. Oblonsky noticed this at once, and smiled.
莱文沉默了，看着奥布朗斯基的两个同伴陌生的面孔，尤其是优雅的格林内维奇的手，它有那么长的白手指，那么长的黄色榛子形状的指甲，衬衫袖口上那么大闪亮的钉子，显然，它们吸引了他所有的注意力，不让他有任何思想自由。奥布朗斯基立刻注意到了这一点，笑了。

‘Ah, to be sure, let me introduce you,’ he said. ‘My colleagues: Philip Ivanitch Nikitin, Mihail Stanislavitch Grinevitch’—and turning to Levin—‘a district councilor, a modern district councilman, a gymnast who lifts thirteen stone with one hand, a cattle-breeder and sportsman, and my friend, Konstantin Dmitrievitch Levin, the brother of Sergey Ivanovitch Koznishev.’
“啊，当然，让我介绍一下你，”他说。 “我的同事：菲利普·伊万内奇·尼基丁、米哈伊尔·斯坦尼斯拉维奇·格里内维奇”——然后转向莱文——“一位区议员、一位现代区议员、一位单手举起十三块石头的体操运动员、一位养牛者和运动员，还有我的朋友康斯坦丁德米特里耶维奇·莱文，谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇·科兹尼舍夫的兄弟。

‘Delighted,’ said the veteran.
老兵说：“很高兴。”

‘I have the honor of knowing your brother, Sergey Ivanovitch,’ said Grinevitch, holding out his slender hand with its long nails.
“我很荣幸认识你的兄弟，谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇，”格林内维奇伸出他修长、指甲长的手说道。

Levin frowned, shook hands coldly, and at once turned to Oblonsky. Though he had a great respect for his half-brother, an author well known to all Russia, he could not endure it when people treated him not as Konstantin Levin, but as the brother of the celebrated Koznishev.
列文皱起眉头，冷冷地握了握手，然后立即转向奥布朗斯基。尽管他非常尊重他的同父异母的兄弟，一位全俄罗斯都熟知的作家，但当人们把他当作著名的科兹尼舍夫的兄弟而不是康斯坦丁·莱文时，他就无法忍受。

‘No, I am no longer a district councilor. I have quarreled with them all, and don’t go to the meetings any more,’ he said, turning to Oblonsky.
‘不，我不再是区议员了。我已经和他们所有人吵架了，不再去参加会议了，”他转向奥布朗斯基说道。

‘You’ve been quick about it!’ said Oblonsky with a smile. ‘But how? why?’
“你反应真快！”奥布朗斯基微笑着说道。 ‘但是怎么办呢？为什么？'

‘It’s a long story. I will tell you some time,’ said Levin, but he began telling him at once. ‘Well, to put it shortly, I was convinced that nothing was really done by the district councils, or ever could be,’ he began, as though some one had just insulted him. ‘On one side it’s a plaything; they play at being a parliament, and I’m neither young enough nor old enough to find amusement in playthings; and on the other side’ (he stammered) ‘it’s a means for the coterie of the district to make money. Formerly they had wardships, courts of justice, now they have the district council—not in the form of bribes, but in the form of unearned salary,’ he said, as hotly as though someone of those present had opposed his opinion.
'说来话长。 “我会告诉你的。”莱文说，但他立即开始告诉他。 “好吧，简而言之，我确信区议会没有真正采取任何行动，或者永远不可能采取任何行动，”他开始说道，好像有人刚刚侮辱了他一样。 “一方面，它是一个玩具；另一方面，它又是一个玩物。”他们扮演议会的角色，而我既不够年轻，也不够老，无法从玩具中找到乐趣；另一方面”（他结结巴巴地说）“这是该地区小圈子赚钱的手段。以前他们有监护权、法院，现在他们有区议会——不是以贿赂的形式，而是以不劳而获的工资形式，”他说道，语气激烈，仿佛在场的有人反对他的观点。

‘Aha! You’re in a new phase again, I see—a conservative,’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch. ‘However, we can go into that later.’
‘啊哈！我看你又进入了一个新阶段——保守派，”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇说。 “不过，我们可以稍后再说。”

‘Yes, later. But I wanted to see you,’ said Levin, looking with hatred at Grinevitch’s hand.
‘是的，稍后再说。但我想见你。”列文说道，仇恨地看着格林内维奇的手。

Stepan Arkadyevitch gave a scarcely perceptible smile.
斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇露出了难以察觉的微笑。

‘How was it you used to say you would never wear European dress again?’ he said, scanning his new suit, obviously cut by a French tailor. ‘Ah! I see: a new phase.’
“你以前怎么会说你再也不会穿欧洲服装了？”他一边说，一边扫视着他的新西装，显然是由法国裁缝剪裁的。 '啊！我看到：一个新阶段。

Levin suddenly blushed, not as grown men blush, slightly, without being themselves aware of it, but as boys blush, feeling that they are ridiculous through their shyness, and consequently ashamed of it and blushing still more, almost to the point of tears. And it was so strange to see this sensible, manly face in such a childish plight, that Oblonsky left off looking at him.
莱文突然脸红了，不像成年人那样脸红，轻微地，自己都没有意识到，而是像男孩一样脸红，觉得自己害羞很可笑，因此感到羞愧，脸红得更厉害，几乎要哭了。看到这张明智而有男子气概的脸陷入如此幼稚的困境，真是太奇怪了，奥布朗斯基不再看他了。

‘Oh, where shall we meet? You know I want very much to talk to you,’ said Levin.
‘噢，我们在哪里见面？你知道我非常想和你谈谈，”莱文说。

Oblonsky seemed to ponder.
奥布朗斯基似乎在沉思。

‘I’ll tell you what: let’s go to Gurin’s to lunch, and there we can talk. I am free till three.’
“我告诉你：我们去古林家吃午饭，然后我们可以谈谈。三点前我都有空。

‘No,’ answered Levin, after an instant’s thought, ‘I have got to go on somewhere else.’
“不，”列文想了一会儿后回答说，“我得去别的地方。”

‘All right, then, let’s dine together.’
“好吧，那我们一起吃饭吧。”

‘Dine together? But I have nothing very particular, only a few words to say, and a question I want to ask you, and we can have a talk afterwards.’
'聚餐？但我没什么特别的，只是有几句话要说，还有一个问题想问你，然后我们可以再聊。”

‘Well, say the few words, then, at once, and we’ll gossip after dinner.’
“好吧，那么，马上说几句话，晚饭后我们再聊聊。”

‘Well, it’s this,’ said Levin; ‘but it’s of no importance, though.’
“嗯，就是这个，”莱文说。 “但这并不重要。”

His face all at once took an expression of anger from the effort he was making to surmount his shyness.
他的脸上突然露出了愤怒的表情，因为他正在努力克服害羞。

‘What are the Shtcherbatskys doing? Everything as it used to be?’ he said.
“谢尔巴茨基一家在做什么？一切都像以前那样吗？”他说。

Stepan Arkadyevitch, who had long known that Levin was in love with his sister-in-law, Kitty, gave a hardly perceptible smile, and his eyes sparkled merrily.
斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇早就知道列文爱上了他的嫂子基蒂，他露出难以察觉的微笑，眼睛里闪烁着快乐的光芒。

‘You said a few words, but I can’t answer in a few words, because.... Excuse me a minute...’
‘你说了几句话，但我无法用三言两语回答，因为……对不起……’

A secretary came in, with respectful familiarity and the modest consciousness, characteristic of every secretary, of superiority to his chief in the knowledge of their business; he went up to Oblonsky with some papers, and began, under pretense of asking a question, to explain some objection. Stepan Arkadyevitch, without hearing him out, laid his hand genially on the secretary’s sleeve.
一位秘书进来了，带着尊敬的熟悉感和谦虚的意识，这是每个秘书所特有的，在业务知识方面比他的上司优越。他拿着一些文件走到奥布隆斯基面前，假装提出问题，开始解释一些反对意见。斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇没听他说完，就把手亲切地放在秘书的袖子上。

‘No, you do as I told you,’ he said, softening his words with a smile, and with a brief explanation of his view of the matter he turned away from the papers, and said: ‘So do it that way, if you please, Zahar Nikititch.’
“不，你按照我告诉你的去做，”他微笑着软化了自己的话，并简要解释了他对此事的看法，然后转身离开报纸，说道：“所以就这样做吧，如果拜托，扎哈尔·尼基蒂奇。

The secretary retired in confusion. During the consultation with the secretary Levin had completely recovered from his embarrassment. He was standing with his elbows on the back of a chair, and on his face was a look of ironical attention.
秘书困惑地退了下去。在与秘书商量的过程中，莱文彻底从尴尬中恢复过来。他手肘撑在椅背上站着，脸上带着讽刺的专注。

‘I don’t understand it, I don’t understand it,’ he said.
他说：“我不明白，我不明白。”

‘What don’t you understand?’ said Oblonsky, smiling as brightly as ever, and picking up a cigarette. He expected some queer outburst from Levin.
“你不明白什么？”奥布朗斯基说道，他一如既往地笑容灿烂，并拿起一支香烟。他预计莱文会爆发出某种奇怪的情绪。

‘I don’t understand what you are doing,’ said Levin, shrugging his shoulders. ‘How can you do it seriously?’
“我不明白你在做什么，”莱文耸耸肩说道。 “你怎么能认真地做呢？”

‘Why not?’
'为什么不？'

‘Why, because there’s nothing in it.’
“为什么，因为里面什么也没有。”

‘You think so, but we’re overwhelmed with work.’
“你是这么想的，但我们的工作已经不堪重负了。”

‘On paper. But, there, you’ve a gift for it,’ added Levin.
‘在纸上。但是，你有这方面的天赋，”莱文补充道。

‘That’s to say, you think there’s a lack of something in me?’
“也就是说，你觉得我身上还缺少什么？”

‘Perhaps so,’ said Levin. ‘But all the same I admire your grandeur, and am proud that I’ve a friend in such a great person. You’ve not answered my question, though,’ he went on, with a desperate effort looking Oblonsky straight in the face.
“也许是这样，”莱文说。 “但尽管如此，我还是很欣赏你的伟大，并为我有这样一个伟大人物的朋友而感到自豪。不过，你还没有回答我的问题。”他继续说道，拼命地看着奥布朗斯基的脸。

‘Oh, that’s all very well. You wait a bit, and you’ll come to this yourself. It’s very nice for you to have over six thousand acres in the Karazinsky district, and such muscles, and the freshness of a girl of twelve; still you’ll be one of us one day. Yes, as to your question, there is no change, but it’s a pity you’ve been away so long.’
‘哦，那很好。你稍等一下，你自己就会明白这一点。你在卡拉津斯基区有六千多英亩的土地，还有这样的肌肉，还有十二岁女孩的清新，真是太好了；但总有一天你会成为我们中的一员。是的，关于你的问题，没有任何变化，但遗憾的是你已经离开这么久了。

‘Oh, why so?’ Levin queried, panic-stricken.
“噢，为什么会这样？”莱文惊慌失措地问道。

‘Oh, nothing,’ responded Oblonsky. ‘We’ll talk it over. But what’s brought you up to town?’
“哦，没什么，”奥布朗斯基回答道。 ‘我们会讨论一下。但是是什么让你来到城里的呢？

‘Oh, we’ll talk about that, too, later on,’ said Levin, reddening again up to his ears.
“哦，我们稍后也会讨论这个，”莱文说，脸又红到了耳朵。

‘All right. I see,’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch. ‘I should ask you to come to us, you know, but my wife’s not quite the thing. But I tell you what; if you want to see them, they’re sure now to be at the Zoological Gardens from four to five. Kitty skates. You drive along there, and I’ll come and fetch you, and we’ll go and dine somewhere together.’
'好的。我明白了，”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇说道。 “你知道，我应该请你来找我们，但我的妻子不太适合。但我告诉你什么；如果你想看它们，它们现在肯定会在四点到五点在动物园。小猫溜冰鞋。你开车去那里，我来接你，我们一起去某个地方吃饭。

‘Capital. So good-bye till then.’
'首都。到那时再见。

‘Now mind, you’ll forget, I know you, or rush off home to the country!’ Stepan Arkadyevitch called out laughing.
“注意了，你会忘记我认识你的，否则就赶紧回乡下吧！”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇笑着喊道。

‘No, truly!’
“不，真的！”

And Levin went out of the room, only when he was in the doorway remembering that he had forgotten to take leave of Oblonsky’s colleagues.
莱文走出房间，直到走到门口才想起自己忘记向奥布朗斯基的同事们告别。

‘That gentleman must be a man of great energy,’ said Grinevitch, when Levin had gone away.
“那位先生一定是个精力充沛的人，”列文走后，格里内维奇说道。

‘Yes, my dear boy,’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch, nodding his head, ‘he’s a lucky fellow! Over six thousand acres in the Karazinsky district; everything before him; and what youth and vigor! Not like some of us.’
“是的，我亲爱的孩子，”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇点点头，说道，“他是个幸运的家伙！”卡拉津斯基区超过六千英亩；眼前的一切；多么青春和活力啊！不像我们中的一些人。

‘You have a great deal to complain of, haven’t you, Stepan Arkadyevitch?’
“你有很多事情要抱怨，不是吗，斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇？”

‘Ah, yes, I’m in a poor way, a bad way,’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch with a heavy sigh.
“啊，是的，我的处境很糟糕，很糟糕，”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇重重地叹了口气说道。

Chapter 6
第6章

When Oblonsky asked Levin what had brought him to town, Levin blushed, and was furious with himself for blushing, because he could not answer, ‘I have come to make your sister-in-law an offer,’ though that was precisely what he had come for.
当奥布隆斯基问莱文是什么让他来到城里时，莱文脸红了，并因为脸红而对自己感到愤怒，因为他无法回答，“我是来向你的嫂子提出要约的，”尽管这正是他所说的。来的目的。

The families of the Levins and the Shtcherbatskys were old, noble Moscow families, and had always been on intimate and friendly terms. This intimacy had grown still closer during Levin’s student days. He had both prepared for the university with the young Prince Shtcherbatsky, the brother of Kitty and Dolly, and had entered at the same time with him. In those days Levin used often to be in the Shtcherbatskys’ house, and he was in love with the Shtcherbatsky household. Strange as it may appear, it was with the household, the family, that Konstantin Levin was in love, especially with the feminine half of the household. Levin did not remember his own mother, and his only sister was older than he was, so that it was in the Shtcherbatskys’ house that he saw for the first time that inner life of an old, noble, cultivated, and honorable family of which he had been deprived by the death of his father and mother. All the members of that family, especially the feminine half, were pictured by him, as it were, wrapped about with a mysterious poetical veil, and he not only perceived no defects whatever in them, but under the poetical veil that shrouded them he assumed the existence of the loftiest sentiments and every possible perfection. Why it was the three young ladies had one day to speak French, and the next English; why it was that at certain hours they played by turns on the piano, the sounds of which were audible in their brother’s room above, where the students used to work; why they were visited by those professors of French literature, of music, of drawing, of dancing; why at certain hours all the three young ladies, with Mademoiselle Linon, drove in the coach to the Tversky boulevard, dressed in their satin cloaks, Dolly in a long one, Natalia in a half-long one, and Kitty in one so short that her shapely legs in tightly-drawn red stockings were visible to all beholders; why it was they had to walk about the Tversky boulevard escorted by a footman with a gold cockade in his hat—all this and much more that was done in their mysterious world he did not understand, but he was sure that everything that was done there was very good, and he was in love precisely with the mystery of the proceedings.
莱文家族和谢尔巴茨基家族都是莫斯科古老的贵族家族，一直关系亲密友好。在莱文的学生时代，这种亲密关系变得更加亲密。他和基蒂和多莉的弟弟、年轻的谢尔巴茨基王子一起为上大学做准备，并与他同时入学。那时，莱文经常去谢尔巴茨基一家，他很喜欢谢尔巴茨基一家。尽管看起来很奇怪，但康斯坦丁·莱文所爱的是这个家庭，这个家庭，尤其是家庭中女性的一半。列文不记得自己的母亲，而他唯一的妹妹也比他年纪大，因此，正是在谢尔巴茨基家，他第一次看到了一个古老、高贵、有教养、光荣的家庭的内心生活。父母的去世使他一无所有。这个家庭的所有成员，尤其是女性的一半，都被他描绘成裹着一层神秘的诗意面纱，他不仅没有发现他们有任何缺陷，而且在笼罩着他们的诗意面纱下，他假设最崇高的情感和一切可能的完美的存在。 为什么三位年轻女士有一天说法语，第二天又说英语？为什么他们在某些时间轮流弹钢琴，在楼上他们兄弟的房间里可以听到钢琴的声音，那里是学生们过去工作的地方？为什么那些法国文学、音乐、绘画、舞蹈教授会拜访他们？为什么在某些时间里，三位年轻女士和利农小姐一起乘坐马车前往特维尔斯基大道，她们都穿着缎子斗篷，多莉穿着长斗篷，娜塔莉亚穿着半长斗篷，基蒂则穿着短斗篷。她那双修长的双腿，穿着紧紧的红丝袜，所有人都看得见。为什么他们必须在帽子上戴着金色徽章的男仆的护送下在特维尔大街上行走——这一切以及更多的事情都是在他们神秘的世界里发生的，他不明白，但他确信在那里所做的一切非常好，他正是喜欢这个过程的神秘性。

In his student days he had all but been in love with the eldest, Dolly, but she was soon married to Oblonsky. Then he began being in love with the second. He felt, as it were, that he had to be in love with one of the sisters, only he could not quite make out which. But Natalia, too, had hardly made her appearance in the world when she married the diplomat Lvov. Kitty was still a child when Levin left the university. Young Shtcherbatsky went into the navy, was drowned in the Baltic, and Levin’s relations with the Shtcherbatskys, in spite of his friendship with Oblonsky, became less intimate. But when early in the winter of this year Levin came to Moscow, after a year in the country, and saw the Shtcherbatskys, he realized which of the three sisters he was indeed destined to love.
在学生时代，他几乎爱上了长子多莉，但她很快就嫁给了奥布朗斯基。然后他开始爱上第二个。他觉得，可以说，他一定爱上了其中一个姐妹，只是他不太清楚是哪一个。但娜塔莉亚在与外交官利沃夫结婚时，也几乎没有出现在这个世界上。莱文离开大学时，基蒂还是个孩子。年轻的谢尔巴茨基加入了海军，在波罗的海溺水身亡，尽管莱文与奥布隆斯基是朋友，但他与谢尔巴茨基家族的关系却变得不那么亲密。但今年初冬，莱文在乡下待了一年后来到莫斯科，见到了谢尔巴茨基夫妇，他意识到自己注定会爱这三姐妹中的哪一个。

One would have thought that nothing could be simpler than for him, a man of good family, rather rich than poor, and thirty-two years old, to make the young Princess Shtcherbatskaya an offer of marriage; in all likelihood he would at once have been looked upon as a good match. But Levin was in love, and so it seemed to him that Kitty was so perfect in every respect that she was a creature far above everything earthly; and that he was a creature so low and so earthly that it could not even be conceived that other people and she herself could regard him as worthy of her.
人们会认为，对他来说，没有什么比他这样一个出身名门、富裕而不贫穷、三十二岁的男人向年轻的谢尔巴茨卡娅公主求婚更简单的了；但是，他却没有比这更简单的事情了。很可能他立刻就会被认为是一个很好的匹配。但莱文陷入了爱情，所以在他看来，基蒂在各方面都是如此完美，她是一个远远高于世间一切的生物；他是一个如此卑微、如此世俗的生物，甚至无法想象其他人和她自己会认为他配得上她。

After spending two months in Moscow in a state of enchantment, seeing Kitty almost every day in society, into which he went so as to meet her, he abruptly decided that it could not be, and went back to the country.
在莫斯科度过了两个月的迷幻状态后，他几乎每天都在社会上见到基蒂，他走进社会是为了见到她，但他突然决定不可能，然后回到了国内。

Levin’s conviction that it could not be was founded on the idea that in the eyes of her family he was a disadvantageous and worthless match for the charming Kitty, and that Kitty herself could not love him. In her family’s eyes he had no ordinary, definite career and position in society, while his contemporaries by this time, when he was thirty-two, were already, one a colonel, and another a professor, another director of a bank and railways, or president of a board like Oblonsky. But he (he knew very well how he must appear to others) was a country gentleman, occupied in breeding cattle, shooting game, and building barns; in other words, a fellow of no ability, who had not turned out well, and who was doing just what, according to the ideas of the world, is done by people fit for nothing else.
莱文坚信这不可能，因为在她的家人眼中，他对迷人的基蒂来说是一个不利且毫无价值的对手，而且基蒂本人不可能爱他。在她家人眼里，他在社会上没有什么普通的、明确的职业和地位，而他的同代人，在他三十二岁时，已经是，一个是上校，另一个是教授，另一个是银行和铁路公司的董事，或者像奥布隆斯基这样的董事会主席。但他（他很清楚自己在别人面前必须是什么样子）是一位乡村绅士，忙于养牛、射击、建造谷仓；换句话说，一个没有能力、成绩不佳的人，而他所做的事情，按照世人的观念，是由不适合做其他事情的人做的。

The mysterious, enchanting Kitty herself could not love such an ugly person as he conceived himself to be, and, above all, such an ordinary, in no way striking person. Moreover, his attitude to Kitty in the past—the attitude of a grown-up person to a child, arising from his friendship with her brother—seemed to him yet another obstacle to love. An ugly, good-natured man, as he considered himself, might, he supposed, be liked as a friend; but to be loved with such a love as that with which he loved Kitty, one would need to be a handsome and, still more, a distinguished man.
神秘而迷人的基蒂本人不可能爱他想象中的这样一个丑陋的人，而且最重要的是，这样一个普通的、一点也不引人注目的人。此外，他过去对基蒂的态度——一个成年人对一个孩子的态度，源于他和她哥哥的友谊——对他来说似乎是爱情的另一个障碍。他认为，一个相貌丑陋但心地善良的人可能会被人喜欢为朋友；但要像爱基蒂那样被爱，就必须是一个英俊的男人，更重要的是，一个杰出的男人。

He had heard that women often did care for ugly and ordinary men, but he did not believe it, for he judged by himself, and he could not himself have loved any but beautiful, mysterious, and exceptional women.
他听说女人常常关心丑陋而普通的男人，但他不相信，因为他自己判断，除了美丽、神秘、非凡的女人之外，他不可能爱任何女人。

But after spending two months alone in the country, he was convinced that this was not one of those passions of which he had had experience in his early youth; that this feeling gave him not an instant’s rest; that he could not live without deciding the question, would she or would she not be his wife, and that his despair had arisen only from his own imaginings, that he had no sort of proof that he would be rejected. And he had now come to Moscow with a firm determination to make an offer, and get married if he were accepted. Or...he could not conceive what would become of him if he were rejected.
但在乡下独自度过了两个月后，他确信这不是他年轻时所经历过的激情之一；而是他的热情。这种感觉让他一刻也没有休息；他说，如果不决定她是否会成为他的妻子，他就无法生活，他的绝望只是源于他自己的想象，他没有任何证据表明他会被拒绝。现在他来到莫斯科，坚定地提出求婚，如果被接受就结婚。或者说……他无法想象，如果他被拒绝了，他会变成什么样子。

Chapter 7
第7章

On arriving in Moscow by a morning train, Levin had put up at the house of his elder half-brother, Koznishev. After changing his clothes he went down to his brother’s study, intending to talk to him at once about the object of his visit, and to ask his advice; but his brother was not alone. With him there was a well-known professor of philosophy, who had come from Harkov expressly to clear up a difference that had arisen between them on a very important philosophical question. The professor was carrying on a hot crusade against materialists. Sergey Koznishev had been following this crusade with interest, and after reading the professor’s last article, he had written him a letter stating his objections. He accused the professor of making too great concessions to the materialists. And the professor had promptly appeared to argue the matter out. The point in discussion was the question then in vogue: Is there a line to be drawn between psychological and physiological phenomena in man? and if so, where?
乘坐早班火车到达莫斯科后，列文住在他同父异母的哥哥科兹尼舍夫的家里。换好衣服后，他来到哥哥的书房，打算立即和他谈谈来意，并征求他的意见。但他的兄弟并不孤单。和他在一起的还有一位著名的哲学教授，他从哈科夫专程来消除他们之间在一个非常重要的哲学问题上出现的分歧。这位教授正在对唯物主义者进行激烈的讨伐。谢尔盖·科兹尼舍夫（Sergey Koznishev）一直饶有兴趣地关注着这场运动，在阅读了这位教授的上一篇文章后，他给他写了一封信，表达了他的反对意见。他指责教授对唯物主义者做出了太大的让步。教授似乎很快就解决了这个问题。讨论的焦点是当时流行的问题：人的心理现象和生理现象之间是否有界限？如果是的话，在哪里？

Sergey Ivanovitch met his brother with the smile of chilly friendliness he always had for everyone, and introducing him to the professor, went on with the conversation.
谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇见到了他的兄弟，脸上带着他一贯对每个人都冷漠友好的微笑，把他介绍给教授，然后继续谈话。

A little man in spectacles, with a narrow forehead, tore himself from the discussion for an instant to greet Levin, and then went on talking without paying any further attention to him. Levin sat down to wait till the professor should go, but he soon began to get interested in the subject under discussion.
一个戴着眼镜、额头狭窄的小个子男人暂时从讨论中挣脱出来，向莱文打招呼，然后继续说话，不再理会他。莱文坐下来等待教授走，但他很快就开始对正在讨论的话题感兴趣。

Levin had come across the magazine articles about which they were disputing, and had read them, interested in them as a development of the first principles of science, familiar to him as a natural science student at the university. But he had never connected these scientific deductions as to the origin of man as an animal, as to reflex action, biology, and sociology, with those questions as to the meaning of life and death to himself, which had of late been more and more often in his mind.
莱文偶然发现了他们所争论的杂志文章，并阅读了它们，对它们作为科学基本原理的发展很感兴趣，作为大学自然科学专业的学生，​​他对此很熟悉。但他从未将这些关于人作为动物的起源、关于反射行为、生物学和社会学的科学推论，与关于生与死对他自己的意义的问题联系起来，这些问题最近越来越受到人们的重视。常常在他的脑海里。

As he listened to his brother’s argument with the professor, he noticed that they connected these scientific questions with those spiritual problems, that at times they almost touched on the latter; but every time they were close upon what seemed to him the chief point, they promptly beat a hasty retreat, and plunged again into a sea of subtle distinctions, reservations, quotations, allusions, and appeals to authorities, and it was with difficulty that he understood what they were talking about.
当他听着弟弟与教授的争论时，他注意到他们将这些科学问题与那些精神问题联系起来，有时他们几乎触及了后者；但每当他们接近他认为的主要观点时，他们就立即匆忙撤退，并再次陷入微妙的区别、保留、引述、暗示和向权威求助的海洋中，他很难理解。明白他们在说什么。

‘I cannot admit it,’ said Sergey Ivanovitch, with his habitual clearness, precision of expression, and elegance of phrase. ‘I cannot in any case agree with Keiss that my whole conception of the external world has been derived from perceptions. The most fundamental idea, the idea of existence, has not been received by me through sensation; indeed, there is no special sense-organ for the transmission of such an idea.’
“我不能承认，”谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇说道，语气一如既往地清晰、精确、措辞优雅。 “无论如何，我不能同意凯斯的观点，即我对外部世界的整个概念都源于感知。最基本的观念，即存在的观念，还没有被我通过感觉所接受；它是存在的。事实上，没有特殊的感觉器官来传递这样的想法。

‘Yes, but they—Wurt, and Knaust, and Pripasov—would answer that your consciousness of existence is derived from the conjunction of all your sensations, that that consciousness of existence is the result of your sensations. Wurt, indeed, says plainly that, assuming there are no sensations, it follows that there is no idea of existence.’
“是的，但是他们——沃特、诺斯特和普里帕索夫——会回答说，你的存在意识来自于你所有感觉的结合，存在意识是你感觉的结果。事实上，沃特明确表示，假设没有感觉，那么就没有存在的概念。

‘I maintain the contrary,’ began Sergey Ivanovitch.
“我的观点恰恰相反，”谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇开始说道。

But here it seemed to Levin that just as they were close upon the real point of the matter, they were again retreating, and he made up his mind to put a question to the professor.
但在莱文看来，正当他们接近问题的真正要点时，他们又退却了，他决定向教授提出一个问题。

‘According to that, if my senses are annihilated, if my body is dead, I can have no existence of any sort?’ he queried.
“按照这个说法，如果我的感官消失了，如果我的身体死了，我就不会再有任何存在了？”他问道。

The professor, in annoyance, and, as it were, mental suffering at the interruption, looked round at the strange inquirer, more like a bargeman than a philosopher, and turned his eyes upon Sergey Ivanovitch, as though to ask: What’s one to say to him? But Sergey Ivanovitch, who had been talking with far less heat and one-sidedness than the professor, and who had sufficient breadth of mind to answer the professor, and at the same time to comprehend the simple and natural point of view from which the question was put, smiled and said:
教授很恼火，也可以说是因为被打断而感到精神痛苦，他环顾四周，看着这个奇怪的询问者，他更像是一个驳船工，而不是哲学家，然后把目光转向谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇，仿佛在问：有什么要说的吗？给他？但是谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇，他说话的热情和片面性远不如教授，他有足够的胸怀来回答教授，同时也能理解提出问题的简单而自然的观点。被放了，笑着说道：

‘That question we have no right to answer as yet.’
“这个问题我们目前还没有权利回答。”

‘We have not the requisite data,’ chimed in the professor, and he went back to his argument. ‘No,’ he said; ‘I would point out the fact that if, as Pripasov directly asserts, perception is based on sensation, then we are bound to distinguish sharply between these two conceptions.’
“我们没有必要的数据，”教授插话道，然后他又回到了自己的论点。 “不，”他说。 “我要指出的事实是，如果正如普里帕索夫直接断言的那样，知觉是基于感觉的，那么我们一定要区分这两个概念。”

Levin listened no more, and simply waited for the professor to go.
莱文不再听了，只是等着教授走。

Chapter 8
第8章

When the professor had gone, Sergey Ivanovitch turned to his brother.
教授走后，谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇转向他的兄弟。

‘Delighted that you’ve come. For some time, is it? How’s your farming getting on?’
‘很高兴你来了。有一段时间了，是吗？你的农业进展得怎么样了？

Levin knew that his elder brother took little interest in farming, and only put the question in deference to him, and so he only told him about the sale of his wheat and money matters.
莱文知道哥哥对种田没什么兴趣，只是顺从地问了他，所以只告诉了他卖小麦和钱的事情。

Levin had meant to tell his brother of his determination to get married, and to ask his advice; he had indeed firmly resolved to do so. But after seeing his brother, listening to his conversation with the professor, hearing afterwards the unconsciously patronizing tone in which his brother questioned him about agricultural matters (their mother’s property had not been divided, and Levin took charge of both their shares), Levin felt that he could not for some reason begin to talk to him of his intention of marrying. He felt that his brother would not look at it as he would have wished him to.
莱文本想告诉他哥哥他结婚的决心，并征求他的意见；他确实下定决心要这样做。但在见到他的兄弟，听着他与教授的谈话，后来听到他的兄弟用无意识的居高临下的语气向他询问农业问题（他们母亲的财产没有被分割，莱文掌管了他们的股份），莱文感到由于某种原因，他无法开始与他谈论他结婚的意图。他觉得他的兄弟不会像他希望的那样看待这件事。

‘Well, how is your district council doing?’ asked Sergey Ivanovitch, who was greatly interested in these local boards and attached great importance to them.
“那么，你们的区议会怎么样了？”谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇问道，他对这些地方委员会非常感兴趣并且非常重视。

‘I really don’t know.’
“我真的不知道。”

‘What! Why, surely you’re a member of the board?’
'什么！为什么，你肯定是董事会成员吧？

‘No, I’m not a member now; I’ve resigned,’ answered Levin, ‘and I no longer attend the meetings.’
“不，我现在不是会员；我已经辞职了，”莱文回答说，“我不再参加会议了。”

‘What a pity!’ commented Sergey Ivanovitch, frowning.
“真遗憾！”谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇皱着眉头说道。

Levin in self-defense began to describe what took place in the meetings in his district.
莱文出于自卫开始描述他所在地区的会议中发生的事情。

‘That’s how it always is!’ Sergey Ivanovitch interrupted him. ‘We Russians are always like that. Perhaps it’s our strong point, really, the faculty of seeing our own shortcomings; but we overdo it, we comfort ourselves with irony which we always have on the tip of our tongues. All I say is, give such rights as our local self-government to any other European people—why, the Germans or the English would have worked their way to freedom from them, while we simply turn them into ridicule.’
“总是这样！”谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇打断了他的话。 “我们俄罗斯人总是这样。也许这确实是我们的强项，能够看到自己的缺点；但我们做得太过分了，我们总是用舌尖上的讽刺来安慰自己。我想说的是，将我们地方自治权等权利给予任何其他欧洲人民——为什么，德国人或英国人会努力摆脱这些权利，而我们只是把它们变成嘲笑。

‘But how can it be helped?’ said Levin penitently. ‘It was my last effort. And I did try with all my soul. I can’t. I’m no good at it.’
“可是这有什么办法呢？”莱文悔恨地说。 “这是我最后的努力。我确实竭尽全力地尝试过。我不能。我不擅长。

‘It’s not that you’re no good at it,’ said Sergey Ivanovitch; ‘it is that you don’t look at it as you should.’
“这并不是说你不擅长，”谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇说；“这并不是说你不擅长。” “问题在于你没有以应有的方式看待它。”

‘Perhaps not,’ Levin answered dejectedly.
“也许不是，”莱文沮丧地回答。

‘Oh! do you know brother Nikolay’s turned up again?’
'哦！你知道尼古拉兄弟又出现了吗？

This brother Nikolay was the elder brother of Konstantin Levin, and half-brother of Sergey Ivanovitch; a man utterly ruined, who had dissipated the greater part of his fortune, was living in the strangest and lowest company, and had quarreled with his brothers.
这位兄弟尼古拉是康斯坦丁·莱文的哥哥，也是谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇的同父异母的兄弟。一个彻底破产的人，已经花光了大部分财产，生活在最奇怪、最低贱的人群中，并且与他的兄弟们发生争吵。

‘What did you say?’ Levin cried with horror. ‘How do you know?’
“你说什么？”莱文惊恐地喊道。 '你怎么知道？'

‘Prokofy saw him in the street.’
“普罗科菲在街上看到了他。”

‘Here in Moscow? Where is he? Do you know?’ Levin got up from his chair, as though on the point of starting off at once.
‘在莫斯科吗？他在哪里？你知道吗？”莱文从椅子上站起来，仿佛马上就要出发。

‘I am sorry I told you,’ said Sergey Ivanovitch, shaking his head at his younger brother’s excitement. ‘I sent to find out where he is living, and sent him his IOU to Trubin, which I paid. This is the answer he sent me.’
“很抱歉我告诉了你，”谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇说道，他因弟弟的兴奋而摇着头。 “我派人去查明他住在哪里，并将欠条寄给了特鲁宾，我付了钱。这是他发给我的答复。

And Sergey Ivanovitch took a note from under a paper-weight and handed it to his brother.
谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇从镇纸下取出一张纸条，递给了他的兄弟。

Levin read in the queer, familiar handwriting: ‘I humbly beg you to leave me in peace. That’s the only favor I ask of my gracious brothers.—Nikolay Levin.’
莱文用奇怪而熟悉的笔迹读到：“我谦卑地请求你让我安静下来。”这是我向我仁慈的兄弟们请求的唯一帮助。——尼古拉·莱文。

Levin read it, and without raising his head stood with the note in his hands opposite Sergey Ivanovitch.
列文读完后，头也没抬，手里拿着纸条站在谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇对面。

There was a struggle in his heart between the desire to forget his unhappy brother for the time, and the consciousness that it would be base to do so.
他内心挣扎着，既想暂时忘记他不幸的兄弟，又意识到这样做是卑鄙的。

‘He obviously wants to offend me,’ pursued Sergey Ivanovitch; ‘but he cannot offend me, and I should have wished with all my heart to assist him, but I know it’s impossible to do that.’
“他显然想冒犯我，”谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇继续说道。 “但他不能冒犯我，我本应该全心全意地帮助他，但我知道这是不可能的。”

‘Yes, yes,’ repeated Levin. ‘I understand and appreciate your attitude to him; but I shall go and see him.’
“是的，是的，”莱文重复道。 “我理解并欣赏你对他的态度；但我还是要去看看他。

‘If you want to, do; but I shouldn’t advise it,’ said Sergey Ivanovitch. ‘As regards myself, I have no fear of your doing so; he will not make you quarrel with me; but for your own sake, I should say you would do better not to go. You can’t do him any good; still, do as you please.’
‘如果你愿意，就去做；但我不应该建议这样做，”谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇说。 ‘至于我自己，我并不担心你这样做；他不会让你与我争吵；但为了你自己的缘故，我应该说你最好不要去。你对他没有任何好处；不过，随你便吧。

‘Very likely I can’t do any good, but I feel—especially at such a moment—but that’s another thing—I feel I could not be at peace.’
“我很可能不能做任何好事，但我觉得——尤其是在这样的时刻——但那是另一回事——我觉得我无法平静。”

‘Well, that I don’t understand,’ said Sergey Ivanovitch. ‘One thing I do understand,’ he added; ‘it’s a lesson in humility. I have come to look very differently and more charitably on what is called infamous since brother Nikolay has become what he is...you know what he did...’
“嗯，我不明白，”谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇说。 “有一件事我确实明白，”他补充道； “这是谦卑的教训。自从尼古拉兄弟变成现在这个样子后，我对所谓的臭名昭著的事情有了很大的不同，也更加宽容了……你知道他做了什么……”

‘Oh, it’s awful, awful!’ repeated Levin.
“噢，太可怕了，太可怕了！”莱文重复道。

After obtaining his brother’s address from Sergey Ivanovitch’s footman, Levin was on the point of setting off at once to see him, but on second thought he decided to put off his visit till the evening. The first thing to do to set his heart at rest was to accomplish what he had come to Moscow for. From his brother’s Levin went to Oblonsky’s office, and on getting news of the Shtcherbatskys from him, he drove to the place where he had been told he might find Kitty.
列文从谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇的随从那里得到了弟弟的地址后，本来打算立即出发去见他，但转念一想，他决定把拜访推迟到晚上。让他安心的第一件事就是完成他来莫斯科的目的。莱文从他哥哥的办公室去了奥布朗斯基的办公室，从他那里得到了谢尔巴茨基一家的消息后，他开车去了他被告知可能会找到基蒂的地方。

Chapter 9
第9章

At four o’clock, conscious of his throbbing heart, Levin stepped out of a hired sledge at the Zoological Gardens, and turned along the path to the frozen mounds and the skating ground, knowing that he would certainly find her there, as he had seen the Shtcherbatskys’ carriage at the entrance.
四点钟，莱文意识到自己的心在跳动，他从动物园租来的雪橇上走下来，沿着小路转向冰冻的土丘和溜冰场，他知道他一定会在那里找到她，就像他之前所做的那样。在入口处看到了谢尔巴茨基夫妇的马车。

It was a bright, frosty day. Rows of carriages, sledges, drivers, and policemen were standing in the approach. Crowds of well-dressed people, with hats bright in the sun, swarmed about the entrance and along the well-swept little paths between the little houses adorned with carving in the Russian style. The old curly birches of the gardens, all their twigs laden with snow, looked as though freshly decked in sacred vestments.
那是一个晴朗、寒冷的一天。一排排的马车、雪橇、司机和警察站在入口处。成群结队的穿着考究的人，戴着在阳光下闪闪发光的帽子，聚集在入口处和装饰有俄罗斯风格雕刻的小房子之间的干净的小路上。花园里那些卷曲的老桦树，所有的树枝都挂满了雪，看起来就像刚穿上神圣的法衣。

He walked along the path towards the skating-ground, and kept saying to himself—‘You mustn’t be excited, you must be calm. What’s the matter with you? What do you want? Be quiet, stupid,’ he conjured his heart. And the more he tried to compose himself, the more breathless he found himself. An acquaintance met him and called him by his name, but Levin did not even recognize him. He went towards the mounds, whence came the clank of the chains of sledges as they slipped down or were dragged up, the rumble of the sliding sledges, and the sounds of merry voices. He walked on a few steps, and the skating-ground lay open before his eyes, and at once, amidst all the skaters, he knew her.
他沿着通往滑冰场的小路走着，心里不断地对自己说：“你不要激动，一定要冷静。”你怎么了？你想要什么？安静点，笨蛋，”他心里默念着。他越是试图让自己平静下来，就越发现自己喘不过气来。一个熟人遇见了他，并叫了他的名字，但莱文根本不认识他。他朝土丘走去，那里传来雪橇滑落或被拖上来时链条的叮当声、雪橇滑动的隆隆声和欢快的人声。他走了几步，滑冰场就展现在他的眼前，他立刻在众多滑冰者中认出了她。

He knew she was there by the rapture and the terror that seized on his heart. She was standing talking to a lady at the opposite end of the ground. There was apparently nothing striking either in her dress or her attitude. But for Levin she was as easy to find in that crowd as a rose among nettles. Everything was made bright by her. She was the smile that shed light on all round her. ‘Is it possible I can go over there on the ice, go up to her?’ he thought. The place where she stood seemed to him a holy shrine, unapproachable, and there was one moment when he was almost retreating, so overwhelmed was he with terror. He had to make an effort to master himself, and to remind himself that people of all sorts were moving about her, and that he too might come there to skate. He walked down, for a long while avoiding looking at her as at the sun, but seeing her, as one does the sun, without looking.
他知道她就在那里，因为他心里充满狂喜和恐惧。她正站着与地面另一端的一位女士交谈。无论是她的衣着还是态度，显然都没有什么引人注目的地方。但对莱文来说，在人群中很容易找到她，就像荨麻中的玫瑰一样。一切都被她点亮了。她的笑容照亮了她的周围。 “我能不能到冰上去，走到她身边？”他想。她所站的地方对他来说就像一座神圣的圣地，难以接近，有那么一刻，他几乎要后退，他被恐惧淹没了。他必须努力控制自己，提醒自己各种各样的人在她身边走来走去，他也可能会来这里滑冰。他走下来，很长一段时间都避免像看太阳一样看她，而是像看太阳一样看她，而不看。

On that day of the week and at that time of day people of one set, all acquainted with one another, used to meet on the ice. There were crack skaters there, showing off their skill, and learners clinging to chairs with timid, awkward movements, boys, and elderly people skating with hygienic motives. They seemed to Levin an elect band of blissful beings because they were here, near her. All the skaters, it seemed, with perfect self-possession, skated towards her, skated by her, even spoke to her, and were happy, quite apart from her, enjoying the capital ice and the fine weather.
在一周的那一天和一天中的那个时间，一群彼此熟悉的人们习惯在冰上见面。那里有炫技的滑冰高手，也有抱着椅子动作胆怯、笨拙的学习者，也有出于卫生目的而滑冰的男孩和老人。在莱文看来，他们似乎是一群被选中的幸福的人，因为他们就在这里，离她很近。所有的滑冰者似乎都沉着地向她滑行，与她滑行，甚至与她交谈，远离她，享受着首都的冰雪和晴朗的天气。

Nikolay Shtcherbatsky, Kitty’s cousin, in a short jacket and tight trousers, was sitting on a garden seat with his skates on. Seeing Levin, he shouted to him:
凯蒂的表弟尼古拉·谢尔巴茨基 (Nikolay Shtcherbatsky) 穿着短夹克和紧身裤，穿着溜冰鞋坐在花园的座位上。看到莱文，他对他喊道：

‘Ah, the first skater in Russia! Been here long? First-rate ice—do put your skates on.’
‘啊，俄罗斯第一位滑冰运动员！来这里很久了？一流的冰——一定要穿上你的溜冰鞋。”

‘I haven’t got my skates,’ Levin answered, marveling at this boldness and ease in her presence, and not for one second losing sight of her, though he did not look at her. He felt as though the sun were coming near him. She was in a corner, and turning out her slender feet in their high boots with obvious timidity, she skated towards him. A boy in Russian dress, desperately waving his arms and bowed down to the ground, overtook her. She skated a little uncertainly; taking her hands out of the little muff that hung on a cord, she held them ready for emergency, and looking towards Levin, whom she had recognized, she smiled at him, and at her own fears. When she had got round the turn, she gave herself a push off with one foot, and skated straight up to Shtcherbatsky. Clutching at his arm, she nodded smiling to Levin. She was more splendid than he had imagined her.
“我没带溜冰鞋。”莱文回答道，对她在场时的大胆和从容感到惊奇，尽管他没有看她，但他一刻也没有离开过她。他感觉太阳正在靠近他。她在角落里，露出穿着高筒靴的纤细双脚，带着明显的胆怯，滑向他。一个穿着俄罗斯服装的男孩绝望地挥舞着双臂，跪倒在地，追上了她。她滑得有点犹豫。她把手从挂在绳子上的小手袋里拿出来，准备紧急情况，然后看着她认出的莱文，她对他微笑，也对自己的恐惧微笑。当她转过弯时，她用一只脚推开自己，径直滑向谢尔巴茨基。她抓住他的手臂，微笑着向莱文点点头。她比他想象的还要美丽。

When he thought of her, he could call up a vivid picture of her to himself, especially the charm of that little fair head, so freely set on the shapely girlish shoulders, and so full of childish brightness and good humor. The childishness of her expression, together with the delicate beauty of her figure, made up her special charm, and that he fully realized. But what always struck him in her as something unlooked for, was the expression of her eyes, soft, serene, and truthful, and above all, her smile, which always transported Levin to an enchanted world, where he felt himself softened and tender, as he remembered himself in some days of his early childhood.
一想到她，他的脑海里就会浮现出她的生动画面，尤其是那颗金发碧眼的小脑袋，那么随意地搭在少女般匀称的肩膀上，充满了孩子气的光彩和幽默感。她稚气的表情，加上她身材的娇美，构成了她特殊的魅力，他深有体会。但她总是让他意想不到的是她的眼神，温柔、安详、真诚，最重要的是，她的微笑，总是把莱文带入一个迷人的世界，在那里他感到自己变得柔软而温柔，正如他记得自己童年时期的一些日子一样。

‘Have you been here long?’ she said, giving him her hand. ‘Thank you,’ she added, as he picked up the handkerchief that had fallen out of her muff.
“你来这里很久了吗？”她一边说，一边向他伸出了手。 “谢谢你，”她补充道，同时他捡起了从她手筒里掉下来的手帕。

‘I? I’ve not long...yesterday...I mean today...I arrived,’ answered Levin, in his emotion not at once understanding her question. ‘I was meaning to come and see you,’ he said; and then, recollecting with what intention he was trying to see her, he was promptly overcome with confusion and blushed.
'我？我没多久……昨天……我是说今天……我到了。”莱文回答道，他情绪激动，但并没有立即理解她的问题。 “我本来是想来看你的，”他说。然后，回想起自己想见她的目的，他立刻感到困惑，脸红了。

‘I didn’t know you could skate, and skate so well.’
“我不知道你会滑冰，而且滑得这么好。”

She looked at him earnestly, as though wishing to make out the cause of his confusion.
她认真地看着他，似乎想找出他困惑的原因。

‘Your praise is worth having. The tradition is kept up here that you are the best of skaters,’ she said, with her little black-gloved hand brushing a grain of hoarfrost off her muff.
‘你的赞美值得拥有。这里保留着这样的传统：你是最好的滑冰运动员。”她一边说，一边用戴着黑手套的小手拂去手筒上的一粒白霜。

‘Yes, I used once to skate with passion; I wanted to reach perfection.’
“是的，我曾经充满激情地滑冰；我想达到完美。

‘You do everything with passion, I think,’ she said smiling. ‘I should so like to see how you skate. Put on skates, and let us skate together.’
“我认为你做每件事都充满激情，”她微笑着说。 “我很想看看你滑得怎么样。穿上溜冰鞋，让我们一起滑冰吧。”

‘Skate together! Can that be possible?’ thought Levin, gazing at her.
‘一起滑冰吧！这可能吗？”莱文盯着她想。

‘I’ll put them on directly,’ he said.
“我会直接穿上它们，”他说。

And he went off to get skates.
然后他就去拿溜冰鞋了。

‘It’s a long while since we’ve seen you here, sir,’ said the attendant, supporting his foot, and screwing on the heel of the skate. ‘Except you, there’s none of the gentlemen first-rate skaters. Will that be all right?’ said he, tightening the strap.
“先生，我们已经很久没有在这里见到您了，”服务员一边说，一边支撑着自己的脚，并拧紧了溜冰鞋的后跟。 ‘除了你，没有一个一流的绅士滑冰运动员。可以吗？”他一边说，一边拉紧带子。

‘Oh, yes, yes; make haste, please,’ answered Levin, with difficulty restraining the smile of rapture which would overspread his face. ‘Yes,’ he thought, ‘this now is life, this is happiness! Together, she said; let us skate together! Speak to her now? But that’s just why I’m afraid to speak—because I’m happy now, happy in hope, anyway.... And then?.... But I must! I must! I must! Away with weakness!’
哦，是的，是的；快点，请，”列文回答道，他很难抑制住脸上洋溢着欣喜若狂的笑容。 “是的，”他想，“这就是生活，这就是幸福！”在一起，她说；让我们一起滑冰吧！现在跟她说话吗？但这就是为什么我不敢说话——因为我现在很快乐，在希望中快乐，无论如何……然后呢？……但我必须！我必须！我必须！远离弱点！’

Levin rose to his feet, took off his overcoat, and scurrying over the rough ice round the hut, came out on the smooth ice and skated without effort, as it were, by simple exercise of will, increasing and slackening speed and turning his course. He approached with timidity, but again her smile reassured him.
莱文站起来，脱掉大衣，在小屋周围粗糙的冰面上疾驰，来到光滑的冰面上，毫不费力地滑行，可以说，通过简单的意志锻炼，增加或放慢速度并改变路线。他胆怯地走近，但她的微笑再次让他放心。

She gave him her hand, and they set off side by side, going faster and faster, and the more rapidly they moved the more tightly she grasped his hand.
她把手伸给他，他们并肩出发，走得越来越快，越快，她就越抓紧他的手。

‘With you I should soon learn; I somehow feel confidence in you,’ she said to him.
‘和你在一起我很快就能学会；我不知何故对你有信心，”她对他说。

‘And I have confidence in myself when you are leaning on me,’ he said, but was at once panic-stricken at what he had said, and blushed. And indeed, no sooner had he uttered these words, when all at once, like the sun going behind a cloud, her face lost all its friendliness, and Levin detected the familiar change in her expression that denoted the working of thought; a crease showed on her smooth brow.
“当你靠在我身上时，我对自己有信心，”他说，但立刻对他所说的话感到惊慌，脸红了。事实上，他刚说出这些话，突然间，就像太阳躲在云层后面一样，她的脸失去了所有的友善，莱文发现她的表情发生了熟悉的变化，这表明她正在思考；她光滑的额头上出现了一道皱纹。

‘Is there anything troubling you?—though I’ve no right to ask such a question,’ he added hurriedly.
“你有什么烦恼吗？——虽然我没有权利问这样的问题，”他急忙补充道。

‘Oh, why so?.... No, I have nothing to trouble me,’ she responded coldly; and she added immediately: ‘You haven’t seen Mlle. Linon, have you?’
“哦，为什么会这样？……不，我没有什么可以麻烦我的。”她冷冷地回答。她立即​​补充道：“你还没见过小姐。”利农，你有吗？

‘Not yet.’
'还没有。'

‘Go and speak to her, she likes you so much.’
“去跟她谈谈吧，她很喜欢你。”

‘What’s wrong? I have offended her. Lord help me!’ thought Levin, and he flew towards the old Frenchwoman with the gray ringlets, who was sitting on a bench. Smiling and showing her false teeth, she greeted him as an old friend.
'怎么了？我冒犯了她。上帝救救我吧！”莱文想道，然后飞向坐在长凳上的留着灰色卷发的法国老妇人。她微笑着，露出假牙，像老朋友一样迎接他。

‘Yes, you see we’re growing up,’ she said to him, glancing towards Kitty, ‘and growing old. Tiny bear has grown big now!’ pursued the Frenchwoman, laughing, and she reminded him of his joke about the three young ladies whom he had compared to the three bears in the English nursery tale. ‘Do you remember that’s what you used to call them?’
“是的，你看我们正在长大，”她对他说，看了一眼基蒂，“也在变老。”小熊现在长大了！”法国女人笑着追问，她让他想起了他把三位年轻女士比作英国童话中的三只熊的笑话。 “你还记得你以前是这么称呼他们的吗？”

He remembered absolutely nothing, but she had been laughing at the joke for ten years now, and was fond of it.
他什么都不记得了，但她已经因为这个笑话笑了十年了，并且很喜欢它。

‘Now, go and skate, go and skate. Our Kitty has learned to skate nicely, hasn’t she?’
‘现在，去滑冰吧，去滑冰吧。我们的小猫已经学会滑得很好了，不是吗？

When Levin darted up to Kitty her face was no longer stern; her eyes looked at him with the same sincerity and friendliness, but Levin fancied that in her friendliness there was a certain note of deliberate composure. And he felt depressed. After talking a little of her old governess and her peculiarities, she questioned him about his life.
当莱文冲向凯蒂时，她的表情不再严肃；她的目光同样真诚而友善地看着他，但莱文觉得她的友善中带着某种刻意的镇静。他感到沮丧。在谈了一些她的老家庭女教师和她的怪癖之后，她向他询问了他的生活。

‘Surely you must be dull in the country in the winter, aren’t you?’ she said.
“冬天你在乡下一定很无聊吧？”她说。

‘No, I’m not dull, I am very busy,’ he said, feeling that she was holding him in check by her composed tone, which he would not have the force to break through, just as it had been at the beginning of the winter.
“不，我并不迟钝，我很忙。”他说，感觉她平静的语气正在牵制着他，他没有力气去突破，就像一开始一样。冬天的。

‘Are you going to stay in town long?’ Kitty questioned him.
“你要在城里待很久吗？”基蒂问他。

‘I don’t know,’ he answered, not thinking of what he was saying. The thought that if he were held in check by her tone of quiet friendliness he would end by going back again without deciding anything came into his mind, and he resolved to make a struggle against it.
“我不知道，”他回答道，并没有思考自己在说什么。他的心里浮现出这样的念头：如果他被她平静友善的语气所牵制，他最终会什么决定也没有决定就再回去，他决心对此进行斗争。

‘How is it you don’t know?’
“你怎么不知道？”

‘I don’t know. It depends upon you,’ he said, and was immediately horror-stricken at his own words.
'我不知道。这取决于你，”他说，并立即被自己的话吓坏了。

Whether it was that she had heard his words, or that she did not want to hear them, she made a sort of stumble, twice struck out, and hurriedly skated away from him. She skated up to Mlle. Linon, said something to her, and went towards the pavilion where the ladies took off their skates.
不知是听到他的话，还是不想听，她一个踉跄，被击中两下，匆匆从他身边溜开。她滑向Mlle。莉诺对她说了些什么，然后就向女士们脱冰鞋的凉亭走去。

‘My God! what have I done! Merciful God! help me, guide me,’ said Levin, praying inwardly, and at the same time, feeling a need of violent exercise, he skated about describing inner and outer circles.
'我的上帝！我做了什么！仁慈的上帝！帮助我，引导我。”莱文一边心里祈祷着，一边一边觉得自己需要剧烈的锻炼，一边一边滑着一边描述着内圈和外圈。

At that moment one of the young men, the best of the skaters of the day, came out of the coffee-house in his skates, with a cigarette in his mouth. Taking a run, he dashed down the steps in his skates, crashing and bounding up and down. He flew down, and without even changing the position of his hands, skated away over the ice.
就在这时，其中一个年轻人，当天最优秀的溜冰者，穿着溜冰鞋从咖啡馆里走了出来，嘴里还叼着一支香烟。他穿着溜冰鞋，一路奔跑，冲下台阶，一路上蹦蹦跳跳。他飞了下去，双手的姿势都没有改变，就在冰面上滑走了。

‘Ah, that’s a new trick!’ said Levin, and he promptly ran up to the top to do this new trick.
“啊，这是一个新把戏！”莱文说着，他立即跑到了山顶，表演了这个新把戏。

‘Don’t break your neck! it needs practice!’ Nikolay Shtcherbatsky shouted after him.
‘别扭断你的脖子！ “这需要练习！”尼古拉·谢尔巴茨基在他身后喊道。

Levin went to the steps, took a run from above as best he could, and dashed down, preserving his balance in this unwonted movement with his hands. On the last step he stumbled, but barely touching the ice with his hand, with a violent effort recovered himself, and skated off, laughing.
莱文走到台阶上，尽其所能地从上面跑起来，然后冲下去，用手在这个不寻常的动作中保持平衡。在最后一步时，他绊倒了，但他的手几乎没有碰到冰面，他猛烈地努力才恢复过来，然后笑着滑走了。

‘How splendid, how nice he is!’ Kitty was thinking at that time, as she came out of the pavilion with Mlle. Linon, and looked towards him with a smile of quiet affection, as though he were a favorite brother. ‘And can it be my fault, can I have done anything wrong? They talk of flirtation. I know it’s not he that I love; but still I am happy with him, and he’s so jolly. Only, why did he say that?...’ she mused.
“真是太棒了，他真是太好了！”凯蒂和小姐一起从亭子里出来时心里这样想。莉诺望着他，脸上带着平静的慈爱微笑，仿佛他是一个最疼爱的兄弟。 ‘这会是我的错吗？我做错了什么吗？他们谈论调情。我知道我爱的不是他；但我仍然对他很满意，他很快乐。只是，他为什么这么说？……”她沉思道。

Catching sight of Kitty going away, and her mother meeting her at the steps, Levin, flushed from his rapid exercise, stood still and pondered a minute. He took off his skates, and overtook the mother and daughter at the entrance of the gardens.
莱文看到基蒂离去，而她的母亲在台阶上迎接她，他因快速运动而涨红了脸，一动不动地站着，沉思了一会儿。他脱下溜冰鞋，在花园门口追上了母女俩。

‘Delighted to see you,’ said Princess Shtcherbatskaya. ‘On Thursdays we are home, as always.’
“很高兴见到你，”谢尔巴茨卡娅公主说道。 “周四我们一如既往地在家。”

‘Today, then?’
“那么今天呢？”

‘We shall be pleased to see you,’ the princess said stiffly.
“我们很高兴见到你，”公主生硬地说。

This stiffness hurt Kitty, and she could not resist the desire to smooth over her mother’s coldness. She turned her head, and with a smile said:
这种僵硬伤害了凯蒂，她无法抗拒想要平息母亲的冷漠的欲望。她转过头，微笑道：

‘Good-bye till this evening.’
“今晚再见。”

At that moment Stepan Arkadyevitch, his hat cocked on one side, with beaming face and eyes, strode into the garden like a conquering hero. But as he approached his mother-in-law, he responded in a mournful and crestfallen tone to her inquiries about Dolly’s health. After a little subdued and dejected conversation with his mother-in-law, he threw out his chest again, and put his arm in Levin’s.
就在这时，斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇把帽子歪到一边，脸上和眼睛都充满了笑容，像一位征服的英雄一样大步走进花园。但当他走近岳母时，他用悲伤而沮丧的语气回答了她关于多莉健康状况的询问。与他的岳母进行了一番压抑而沮丧的谈话后，他再次挺起胸膛，将手臂放在莱文的手臂上。

‘Well, shall we set off?’ he asked. ‘I’ve been thinking about you all this time, and I’m very, very glad you’ve come,’ he said, looking him in the face with a significant air.
“好吧，我们出发吧？”他问道。 “我一直在想念你，我非常非常高兴你能来，”他说道，神情严肃地看着他的脸。

‘Yes, come along,’ answered Levin in ecstasy, hearing unceasingly the sound of that voice saying, ‘Good-bye till this evening,’ and seeing the smile with which it was said.
“是的，一起来吧，”列文欣喜若狂地回答，他不断听到那个声音说“今晚再见”，也看到了说这句话时脸上的微笑。

‘To the England or the Hermitage?’
“去英国还是冬宫？”

‘I don’t mind which.’
“我不介意哪个。”

‘All right, then, the England,’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch, selecting that restaurant because he owed more there than at the Hermitage, and consequently considered it mean to avoid it. ‘Have you got a sledge? That’s first-rate, for I sent my carriage home.’
“好吧，那么，英格兰，”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇说，他选择那家餐馆是因为他在那儿欠的钱比在艾尔米塔日的多，因此认为避开它是卑鄙的。 ‘你有雪橇吗？这是一流的，因为我把马车送回家了。”

The friends hardly spoke all the way. Levin was wondering what that change in Kitty’s expression had meant, and alternately assuring himself that there was hope, and falling into despair, seeing clearly that his hopes were insane, and yet all the while he felt himself quite another man, utterly unlike what he had been before her smile and those words, ‘Good-bye till this evening.’
一路上朋友们几乎没有说话。莱文想知道基蒂表情的变化意味着什么，时而向自己保证还有希望，时而陷入绝望，清楚地看到他的希望是疯狂的，但与此同时，他觉得自己完全是另一个人，完全不像他所想象的那样。就在她的微笑和那句话“今晚再见”之前。

Stepan Arkadyevitch was absorbed during the drive in composing the menu of the dinner.
斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇在开车的途中全神贯注地准备晚餐的菜单。

‘You like turbot, don’t you?’ he said to Levin as they were arriving.
“你喜欢大菱鲆，不是吗？”他们到达时他对莱文说道。

‘Eh?’ responded Levin. ‘Turbot? Yes, I’m awfully fond of turbot.’
“呃？”莱文回答道。 '大菱鲆？是的，我非常喜欢大菱鲆。”

Chapter 10
第10章

When Levin went into the restaurant with Oblonsky, he could not help noticing a certain peculiarity of expression, as it were, a restrained radiance, about the face and whole figure of Stepan Arkadyevitch. Oblonsky took off his overcoat, and with his hat over one ear walked into the dining room, giving directions to the Tatar waiters, who were clustered about him in evening coats, bearing napkins. Bowing to right and left to the people he met, and here as everywhere joyously greeting acquaintances, he went up to the sideboard for a preliminary appetizer of fish and vodka, and said to the painted Frenchwoman decked in ribbons, lace, and ringlets, behind the counter, something so amusing that even that Frenchwoman was moved to genuine laughter. Levin for his part refrained from taking any vodka simply because he felt such a loathing of that Frenchwoman, all made up, it seemed, of false hair, poudre de riz, and vinaigre de toilette. He made haste to move away from her, as from a dirty place. His whole soul was filled with memories of Kitty, and there was a smile of triumph and happiness shining in his eyes.
当列文和奥布隆斯基一起走进餐馆时，他不禁注意到斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇的脸和整个身材有某种特殊的表情，可以说是一种克制的光芒。奥布朗斯基脱下大衣，把帽子戴在一只耳朵上，走进餐厅，给鞑靼侍者指路，他们穿着晚礼服，拿着餐巾，簇拥在他周围。向他遇到的人左右鞠躬，就像到处都在高兴地向熟人打招呼一样，他走到餐具柜前，准备了一份鱼和伏特加的开胃菜，对身后那位身穿彩带、蕾丝和卷发的法国女人说柜台上的东西太有趣了，连那个法国女人都被感动了，发自内心地笑了起来。莱文则没有喝任何伏特加，只是因为他对那个法国女人感到非常厌恶，她的一切似乎都是由假发、酒香和香醋组成的。他急忙从她身边走开，就像从肮脏的地方走开一样。他的整个灵魂都充满了对凯蒂的回忆，眼中闪烁着胜利和幸福的笑容。

‘This way, your excellency, please. Your excellency won’t be disturbed here,’ said a particularly pertinacious, white-headed old Tatar with immense hips and coat-tails gaping widely behind. ‘Walk in, your excellency,’ he said to Levin; by way of showing his respect to Stepan Arkadyevitch, being attentive to his guest as well.
这边请，阁下。阁下在这里不会受到打扰。”一位特别固执的白发老鞑靼人说道，他的臀部硕大，燕尾服后面张得很大。 “请进，阁下，”他对莱文说道。通过表达他对斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇的尊重，以及对他的客人的关心。

Instantly flinging a fresh cloth over the round table under the bronze chandelier, though it already had a table cloth on it, he pushed up velvet chairs, and came to a standstill before Stepan Arkadyevitch with a napkin and a bill of fare in his hands, awaiting his commands.
他立刻把一块新布扔到青铜吊灯下的圆桌上，尽管上面已经铺了桌布，他推开天鹅绒椅子，在斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇面前停下来，手里拿着餐巾和一张菜单，等待着他的命令。

‘If you prefer it, your excellency, a private room will be free directly; Prince Golistin with a lady. Fresh oysters have come in.’
‘如果阁下愿意，直接免费包间；戈利斯坦王子和一位女士。新鲜的牡蛎已经进来了。”

‘Ah! oysters.’
'啊！生蚝。'

Stepan Arkadyevitch became thoughtful.
斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇陷入沉思。

‘How if we were to change our program, Levin?’ he said, keeping his finger on the bill of fare. And his face expressed serious hesitation. ‘Are the oysters good? Mind now.’
“如果我们要改变我们的计划怎么样，莱文？”他一边说，一边把手指放在菜单上。而他的脸上，也流露出了严重的犹豫。 ‘牡蛎好吃吗？现在请注意。

‘They’re Flensburg, your excellency. We’ve no Ostend.’
“他们是弗伦斯堡，阁下。我们没有奥斯坦德。

‘Flensburg will do, but are they fresh?’
“弗伦斯堡就可以了，但是它们新鲜吗？”

‘Only arrived yesterday.’
“昨天才到的。”

‘Well, then, how if we were to begin with oysters, and so change the whole program? Eh?’
“那么，如果我们从牡蛎开始，然后改变整个计划怎么样？嗯？’

‘It’s all the same to me. I should like cabbage soup and porridge better than anything; but of course there’s nothing like that here.’
'对我来说都一样。我最喜欢白菜汤和粥；但这里当然没有这样的东西。

‘Porridge a la Russe, your honor would like?’ said the Tatar, bending down to Levin, like a nurse speaking to a child.
“阁下想要点俄罗斯粥吗？”鞑靼人弯下腰对莱文说道，就像护士对孩子说话一样。

‘No, joking apart, whatever you choose is sure to be good. I’ve been skating, and I’m hungry. And don’t imagine,’ he added, detecting a look of dissatisfaction on Oblonsky’s face, ‘that I shan’t appreciate your choice. I am fond of good things.’
‘不，开个玩笑，无论你选择什么，都一定是好的。我一直在滑冰，而且我饿了。别以为，”他发现奥布朗斯基脸上露出不满的表情，补充道，“我不会欣赏你的选择。我喜欢美好的事物。

‘I should hope so! After all, it’s one of the pleasures of life,’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch. ‘Well, then, my friend, you give us two—or better say three—dozen oysters, clear soup with vegetables...’
‘我希望如此！毕竟，这是生活的乐趣之一。”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇说道。 “那么，我的朋友，你给我们两打——或者最好说三打——牡蛎，清汤加蔬菜……”

‘Printaniere,’ prompted the Tatar. But Stepan Arkadyevitch apparently did not care to allow him the satisfaction of giving the French names of the dishes.
“Printaniere，”鞑靼人提示道。但斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇显然不愿意让他满意地给出菜肴的法语名称。

‘With vegetables in it, you know. Then turbot with thick sauce, then...roast beef; and mind it’s good. Yes, and capons, perhaps, and then sweets.’
‘里面有蔬菜，你知道的。然后是浓汁多宝鱼，然后是烤牛肉；并记住这很好。是的，也许还有阉鸡，然后是糖果。

The Tatar, recollecting that it was Stepan Arkadyevitch’s way not to call the dishes by the names in the French bill of fare, did not repeat them after him, but could not resist rehearsing the whole menu to himself according to the bill:—‘Soupe printaniere, turbot, sauce Beaumarchais, poulard a l’estragon, macedoine de fruits...etc.,’ and then instantly, as though worked by springs, laying down one bound bill of fare, he took up another, the list of wines, and submitted it to Stepan Arkadyevitch.
鞑靼人想起斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇的习惯就是不按法国菜单上的名字来称呼菜肴，就没有跟在他后面重复这些菜品，而是忍不住按照菜单对自己排练了整个菜单：——“汤” printaniere、大菱鲆、Beaumarchais酱、poulard a l'estragon、macedoine defruits...等等，”然后他立刻就像被弹簧驱动一样，放下一张装订好的菜单，拿起另一张，上面是酒单。 ，并将其提交给斯捷潘·阿尔卡季维奇。

‘What shall we drink?’
“我们喝什么？”

‘What you like, only not too much. Champagne,’ said Levin.
‘你喜欢什么，只是不要太多。香槟，”莱文说。

‘What! to start with? You’re right though, I dare say. Do you like the white seal?’
'什么！首先？不过我敢说你是对的。你喜欢白色印章吗？

‘Cachet blanc,’ prompted the Tatar.
“Cachet blanc，”鞑靼人提示道。

‘Very well, then, give us that brand with the oysters, and then we’ll see.’
“很好，那么，给我们那个牡蛎品牌，然后我们看看。”

‘Yes, sir. And what table wine?’
'是的先生。什么佐餐酒？

‘You can give us Nuits. Oh, no, better the classic Chablis.’
‘你可以给我们夜宵。哦，不，最好是经典的夏布利。

‘Yes, sir. And your cheese, your excellency?’
'是的先生。阁下，您的奶酪呢？

‘Oh, yes, Parmesan. Or would you like another?’
“哦，是的，帕尔马干酪。或者你还想要另一个吗？

‘No, it’s all the same to me,’ said Levin, unable to suppress a smile.
“不，对我来说都一样，”莱文忍不住笑了。

And the Tatar ran off with flying coat-tails, and in five minutes darted in with a dish of opened oysters on mother-of-pearl shells, and a bottle between his fingers.
鞑靼人扬着飞扬的燕尾服逃跑了，五分钟后，他手里夹着一瓶打开的珍珠母贝牡蛎，冲了进来。

Stepan Arkadyevitch crushed the starchy napkin, tucked it into his waistcoat, and settling his arms comfortably, started on the oysters.
斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇把淀粉餐巾捏碎，塞进背心里，舒舒服服地摆好双臂，开始吃牡蛎。

‘Not bad,’ he said, stripping the oysters from the pearly shell with a silver fork, and swallowing them one after another. ‘Not bad,’ he repeated, turning his dewy, brilliant eyes from Levin to the Tatar.
“不错，”他一边说，一边用一把银叉子把牡蛎从珍珠壳上剥下来，一个接一个地吞下去。 “还不错，”他重复道，将水汪汪、明亮的眼睛从莱文转向鞑靼人。

Levin ate the oysters indeed, though white bread and cheese would have pleased him better. But he was admiring Oblonsky. Even the Tatar, uncorking the bottle and pouring the sparkling wine into the delicate glasses, glanced at Stepan Arkadyevitch, and settled his white cravat with a perceptible smile of satisfaction.
莱文确实吃了牡蛎，不过白面包和奶酪会让他更高兴。但他很欣赏奥布朗斯基。就连鞑靼人，在打开酒瓶塞子，将起泡酒倒入精致的玻璃杯中时，也看了一眼斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇，系上白色领带，露出明显满意的微笑。

‘You don’t care much for oysters, do you?’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch, emptying his wine glass, ‘or you’re worried about something. Eh?’
“你不太喜欢牡蛎，是吗？”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇喝光了酒杯，说道，“或者你在担心什么。嗯？’

He wanted Levin to be in good spirits. But it was not that Levin was not in good spirits; he was ill at ease. With what he had in his soul, he felt sore and uncomfortable in the restaurant, in the midst of private rooms where men were dining with ladies, in all this fuss and bustle; the surroundings of bronzes, looking glasses, gas, and waiters—all of it was offensive to him. He was afraid of sullying what his soul was brimful of.
他希望莱文精神愉快。但这并不是莱文心情不好；而是莱文心情不好。他感到局促不安。以他的灵魂，在餐厅里，在包厢里，男人和女人一起用餐，在这一切的喧闹中，他感到酸痛和不舒服；周围的青铜器、镜子、煤气和侍者——这一切都让他感到不舒服。他害怕玷污他的灵魂。

‘I? Yes, I am; but besides, all this bothers me,’ he said. ‘You can’t conceive how queer it all seems to a country person like me, as queer as that gentleman’s nails I saw at your place...’
'我？我是;但除此之外，这一切都让我烦恼，”他说。 “你无法想象，对于像我这样的乡下人来说，这一切是多么奇怪，就像我在你家看到的那位绅士的指甲一样奇怪……”

‘Yes, I saw how much interested you were in poor Grinevitch’s nails,’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch, laughing.
“是的，我看到你对可怜的格里内维奇的指甲有多感兴趣，”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇笑着说。

‘It’s too much for me,’ responded Levin. ‘Do try, now, and put yourself in my place, take the point of view of a country person. We in the country try to bring our hands into such a state as will be most convenient for working with. So we cut our nails; sometimes we turn up our sleeves. And here people purposely let their nails grow as long as they will, and link on small saucers by way of studs, so that they can do nothing with their hands.’
“这对我来说太过分了，”莱文回答道。 “现在就尝试一下，站在我的立场上，站在一个乡下人的角度。我们乡下人努力让双手处于最方便工作的状态。所以我们剪指甲；有时我们会袖手旁观。这里的人们故意把指甲留得长长的，并用螺柱连接在小碟子上，这样他们的手就不能做任何事了。

Stepan Arkadyevitch smiled gaily.
斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇高兴地笑了。

‘Oh, yes, that’s just a sign that he has no need to do coarse work. His work is with the mind...’
‘哦，是的，这只是表明他不需要做粗活。他的工作是用心灵……”

‘Maybe. But still it’s queer to me, just as at this moment it seems queer to me that we country folks try to get our meals over as soon as we can, so as to be ready for our work, while here are we trying to drag out our meal as long as possible, and with that object eating oysters...’
'或许。但这对我来说仍然很奇怪，就像此时此刻，我们乡下人试图尽快吃完饭，为我们的工作做好准备，而我们却试图拖延时间，这对我来说似乎很奇怪我们的用餐时间尽可能长，并以此为目标吃牡蛎......”

‘Why, of course,’ objected Stepan Arkadyevitch. ‘But that’s just the aim of civilization—to make everything a source of enjoyment.’
“当然，”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇反驳道。 “但这正是文明的目标——让一切都成为享受的源泉。”

‘Well, if that’s its aim, I’d rather be a savage.’
“好吧，如果这就是它的目的，我宁愿做一个野蛮人。”

‘And so you are a savage. All you Levins are savages.’
‘所以你是一个野蛮人。你们莱文都是野蛮人。

Levin sighed. He remembered his brother Nikolay, and felt ashamed and sore, and he scowled; but Oblonsky began speaking of a subject which at once drew his attention.
莱文叹了口气。他想起了他的兄弟尼古拉，感到羞愧和痛苦，他皱起了眉头。但奥布朗斯基开始谈论一个立即引起他注意的话题。

‘Oh, I say, are you going tonight to our people, the Shtcherbatskys’, I mean?’ he said, his eyes sparkling significantly as he pushed away the empty rough shells, and drew the cheese towards him.
“哦，我说，我是说，你今晚要去我们的人民，谢尔巴茨基一家吗？”他说，当他推开空空的粗糙贝壳，把奶酪拉向他时，他的眼睛闪闪发亮。

‘Yes, I shall certainly go,’ replied Levin; ‘though I fancied the princess was not very warm in her invitation.’
“是的，我一定会去，”列文回答道。 “虽然我觉得公主的邀请并不是很热情。”

‘What nonsense! That’s her manner.... Come, boy, the soup!.... That’s her manner—grande dame,’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch. ‘I’m coming, too, but I have to go to the Countess Bonina’s rehearsal. Come, isn’t it true that you’re a savage? How do you explain the sudden way in which you vanished from Moscow? The Shtcherbatskys were continually asking me about you, as though I ought to know. The only thing I know is that you always do what no one else does.’
'胡说些什么！这就是她的方式……来吧，孩子，汤！……这就是她的方式——贵妇人，”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇说。 “我也来，不过我要去参加博尼娜伯爵夫人的排练。来吧，你这不是野人吗？您如何解释您突然从莫斯科消失的原因？谢尔巴茨基一家不断地向我打听你的情况，好像我应该知道一样。我唯一知道的是，你总是做别人没有做的事情。”

‘Yes,’ said Levin, slowly and with emotion, ‘you’re right. I am a savage. Only, my savageness is not in having gone away, but in coming now. Now I have come...’
“是的，”莱文缓慢而激动地说，“你说得对。”我是一个野蛮人。只是，我的野蛮不在于离开，而在于现在到来。现在我来了……”

‘Oh, what a lucky fellow you are!’ broke in Stepan Arkadyevitch, looking into Levin’s eyes.
“哦，你真是个幸运的家伙！”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇看着列文的眼睛插嘴道。

‘Why?’
'为什么？'

“I know a gallant steed by tokens sure,
“我确实知道一匹英勇的骏马，

And by his eyes I know a youth in love,’
通过他的眼睛，我认识了一个恋爱中的年轻人，”

declaimed Stepan Arkadyevitch. ‘Everything is before you.’
斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇大声说道。 “一切都在你面前。”

‘Why, is it over for you already?’
“怎么，你的事情已经结束了吗？”

‘No; not over exactly, but the future is yours, and the present is mine, and the present—well, it’s not all that it might be.’
'不;还没有完全结束，但未来是你的，现在是我的，而现在——好吧，这并不是它可能的全部。

‘How so?’
'为何如此？'

‘Oh, things go wrong. But I don’t want to talk of myself, and besides I can’t explain it all,’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch. ‘Well, why have you come to Moscow, then?.... Hi! take away!’ he called to the Tatar.
‘哦，事情出了问题。但我不想谈论我自己，而且我也无法解释这一切。”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇说道。 “那么，你为什么来莫斯科呢？……嗨！”拿走！”他对鞑靼人喊道。

‘You guess?’ responded Levin, his eyes like deep wells of light fixed on Stepan Arkadyevitch.
“你猜？”列文回答道，他的眼睛像深井般的光芒盯着斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇。

‘I guess, but I can’t be the first to talk about it. You can see by that whether I guess right or wrong,’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch, gazing at Levin with a subtle smile.
“我猜，但我不能是第一个谈论它的人。你可以看出来我猜对还是错。”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇说，带着微妙的微笑凝视着列文。

‘Well, and what have you to say to me?’ said Levin in a quivering voice, feeling that all the muscles of his face were quivering too. ‘How do you look at the question?’
“那么，你有什么话要对我说的？”列文用颤抖的声音说道，他感觉自己脸上的所有肌肉也在颤抖。 “你如何看待这个问题？”

Stepan Arkadyevitch slowly emptied his glass of Chablis, never taking his eyes off Levin.
斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇慢慢地喝光了他杯中的夏布利酒，眼睛始终没有离开列文。

‘I?’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch, ‘there’s nothing I desire so much as that—nothing! It would be the best thing that could be.’
“我？”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇说道，“我没有什么比这更渴望的了——什么也没有！这将是最好的事情。

‘But you’re not making a mistake? You know what we’re speaking of?’ said Levin, piercing him with his eyes. ‘You think it’s possible?’
‘但是你没有搞错吧？你知道我们在说什么吗？”莱文用眼睛盯着他说。 “你认为这可能吗？”

‘I think it’s possible. Why not possible?’
'我认为这是可能的。为什么不可能呢？

‘No! do you really think it’s possible? No, tell me all you think! Oh, but if...if refusal’s in store for me!... Indeed I feel sure...’
'不！你真的认为这可能吗？不，告诉我你的想法！哦，但是如果……如果我遭到拒绝！……确实，我确信……”

‘Why should you think that?’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch, smiling at his excitement.
“你为什么会这么想？”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇说，他因自己的兴奋而微笑。

‘It seems so to me sometimes. That will be awful for me, and for her too.’
“我有时似乎是这样。这对我来说很糟糕，对她来说也是如此。

‘Oh, well, anyway there’s nothing awful in it for a girl. Every girl’s proud of an offer.’
“哦，好吧，无论如何，这对一个女孩来说并没有什么可怕的。每个女孩都会为能得到一份工作而感到自豪。”

‘Yes, every girl, but not she.’
“是的，每个女孩，但不是她。”

Stepan Arkadyevitch smiled. He so well knew that feeling of Levin’s, that for him all the girls in the world were divided into two classes: one class—all the girls in the world except her, and those girls with all sorts of human weaknesses, and very ordinary girls: the other class—she alone, having no weaknesses of any sort and higher than all humanity.
斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇笑了。他太了解莱文的那种感觉了，对他来说，世界上所有的女孩都分为两类：一类——全世界除了她之外的所有女孩，以及那些有着种种人性弱点的女孩，以及非常普通的女孩。 ：另一个阶级——她一个人，没有任何弱点，比全人类都高。

‘Stay, take some sauce,’ he said, holding back Levin’s hand as it pushed away the sauce.
“留下来，拿点酱汁。”他一边说，一边拉住莱文推开酱汁的手。

Levin obediently helped himself to sauce, but would not let Stepan Arkadyevitch go on with his dinner.
列文顺从地帮自己调味，但不让斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇继续吃晚饭。

‘No, stop a minute, stop a minute,’ he said. ‘You must understand that it’s a question of life and death for me. I have never spoken to any one of this. And there’s no one I could speak of it to, except you. You know we’re utterly unlike each other, different tastes and views and everything; but I know you’re fond of me and understand me, and that’s why I like you awfully. But for God’s sake, be quite straightforward with me.’
“不，停下来，停下来，”他说。 ‘你必须明白，这对我来说是生死攸关的问题。我从来没有和任何人说过这样的事。除了你之外，我没有人可以向任何人谈论这件事。你知道我们彼此完全不同，品味、观点等等都不同；但我知道你喜欢我并且理解我，这就是为什么我非常喜欢你。但看在上帝的份上，请对我直截了当。”

‘I tell you what I think,’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch, smiling. ‘But I’ll say more: my wife is a wonderful woman...’ Stepan Arkadyevitch sighed, remembering his position with his wife, and, after a moment’s silence, resumed—‘She has a gift of foreseeing things. She sees right through people; but that’s not all; she knows what will come to pass, especially in the way of marriages. She foretold, for instance, that Princess Shahovskaya would marry Brenteln. No one would believe it, but it came to pass. And she’s on your side.’
“我告诉你我的想法，”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇微笑着说道。 “但我还要再说一句：我的妻子是一位了不起的女人……”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇叹了口气，想起了他和妻子的处境，沉默了一会儿，又继续说道——“她有预见事物的天赋。”她能看透人；但这还不是全部；她知道将会发生什么，尤其是在婚姻方面。例如，她预言沙霍夫斯卡娅公主将嫁给布伦特恩。没有人会相信，但它确实发生了。她站在你这边。

‘How do you mean?’
'你是什么意思？'

‘It’s not only that she likes you—she says that Kitty is certain to be your wife.’
“她不仅喜欢你，还说凯蒂一定会成为你的妻子。”

At these words Levin’s face suddenly lighted up with a smile, a smile not far from tears of emotion.
听到这句话，莱文的脸上突然绽放出笑容，那笑容离激动的泪水不远了。

‘She says that!’ cried Levin. ‘I always said she was exquisite, your wife. There, that’s enough, enough said about it,’ he said, getting up from his seat.
“她就是这么说的！”莱文喊道。 “我总是说她很精致，你的妻子。好了，够了，说得够多了，”他从座位上站起来说道。

‘All right, but do sit down.’
“好吧，但是请坐下。”

But Levin could not sit down. He walked with his firm tread twice up and down the little cage of a room, blinked his eyelids that his tears might not fall, and only then sat down to the table.
但莱文无法坐下。他迈着坚定的步伐，在一间小笼子里来回走了两圈，眨了眨眼，不让眼泪掉下来，然后才坐到桌边。

‘You must understand,’ said he, ‘it’s not love. I’ve been in love, but it’s not that. It’s not my feeling, but a sort of force outside me has taken possession of me. I went away, you see, because I made up my mind that it could never be, you understand, as a happiness that does not come on earth; but I’ve struggled with myself, I see there’s no living without it. And it must be settled.’
“你必须明白，”他说，“这不是爱。”我曾经恋爱过，但事实并非如此。这不是我的感觉，而是一种外在的力量占据了我。你知道，我离开是因为我下定决心，你知道，这永远不会是一种地球上不会有的幸福；但我一直在与自己斗争，我发现没有它就无法生活。这件事必须得到解决。

‘What did you go away for?’
“你出去干什么？”

‘Ah, stop a minute! Ah, the thoughts that come crowding on one! The questions one must ask oneself! Listen. You can’t imagine what you’ve done for me by what you said. I’m so happy that I’ve become positively hateful; I’ve forgotten everything. I heard today that my brother Nikolay...you know, he’s here...I had even forgotten him. It seems to me that he’s happy too. It’s a sort of madness. But one thing’s awful.... Here, you’ve been married, you know the feeling...it’s awful that we—old—with a past... not of love, but of sins...are brought all at once so near to a creature pure and innocent; it’s loathsome, and that’s why one can’t help feeling oneself unworthy.’
‘啊，等一下！啊，各种思绪涌上心头！一个人必须问自己的问题！听。你无法通过你所说的话来想象你为我做了什么。我很高兴我变得非常可恨；我已经忘记了一切。我今天听说我的兄弟尼古拉……你知道，他在这里……我什至忘记了他。在我看来，他也很高兴。这是一种疯狂。但有一件事很糟糕……在这里，你已经结婚了，你知道那种感觉……可怕的是，我们——老了——有过去……不是因为爱，而是因为罪……被带到了所有的地方。曾经如此接近一个纯洁无罪的生物；这是令人厌恶的，这就是为什么人们会情不自禁地觉得自己不配。

‘Oh, well, you’ve not many sins on your conscience.’
“哦，好吧，你的良心上并没有多少罪过。”

‘Alas! all the same,’ said Levin, ‘when with loathing I go over my life, I shudder and curse and bitterly regret it.... Yes.’
'唉！尽管如此，”莱文说，“当我怀着厌恶的心情回顾自己的一生时，我会颤抖、咒骂并痛苦地后悔……是的。”

‘What would you have? The world’s made so,’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch.
‘你想要什么？世界就是这样形成的，”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇说道。

‘The one comfort is like that prayer, which I always liked: ‘Forgive me not according to my unworthiness, but according to Thy lovingkindness.’ That’s the only way she can forgive me.’
“唯一的安慰就是我一直喜欢的祈祷：‘不要根据我的不配，而是根据你的慈爱来原谅我。’这是她能原谅我的唯一方式。”

Chapter 11
第11章

Levin emptied his glass, and they were silent for a while.
莱文喝光了杯子里的酒，他们沉默了一会儿。

‘There’s one other thing I ought to tell you. Do you know Vronsky?’ Stepan Arkadyevitch asked Levin.
“还有一件事我应该告诉你。 “你认识渥伦斯基吗？”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇问列文。

‘No, I don’t. Why do you ask?’
'不，我不。你为什么要问？'

‘Give us another bottle,’ Stepan Arkadyevitch directed the Tatar, who was filling up their glasses and fidgeting round them just when he was not wanted.
“再给我们一瓶，”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇对鞑靼人说道，鞑靼人正在给他们的杯子斟满酒，并在他们不需要他的时候坐立不安。

‘Why you ought to know Vronsky is that he’s one of your rivals.’
“你为什么应该认识渥伦斯基，因为他是你的竞争对手之一。”

‘Who’s Vronsky?’ said Levin, and his face was suddenly transformed from the look of childlike ecstasy which Oblonsky had just been admiring to an angry and unpleasant expression.
“渥伦斯基是谁？”列文问道，他的脸突然从奥布隆斯基刚刚欣赏的孩子般的狂喜表情变成了愤怒和不愉快的表情。

‘Vronsky is one of the sons of Count Kirill Ivanovitch Vronsky, and one of the finest specimens of the gilded youth of Petersburg. I made his acquaintance in Tver when I was there on official business, and he came there for the levy of recruits. Fearfully rich, handsome, great connections, an aide-de-camp, and with all that a very nice, good-natured fellow. But he’s more than simply a good-natured fellow, as I’ve found out here—he’s a cultivated man, too, and very intelligent; he’s a man who’ll make his mark.’
渥伦斯基是基里尔·伊万诺维奇·渥伦斯基伯爵的儿子之一，也是彼得堡镀金青年的最佳典范之一。我在特维尔出差时认识了他，他是来征募新兵的。非常富有、英俊、关系密切、副官，除此之外，他还是一个非常友善、心地善良的人。但正如我在这里发现的那样，他不仅仅是一个心地善良的人——他也是一个有教养的人，而且非常聪明；他是一个有教养的人。他是一个会留下自己印记的人。

Levin scowled and was dumb.
莱文皱起眉头，哑口无言。

‘Well, he turned up here soon after you’d gone, and as I can see, he’s over head and ears in love with Kitty, and you know that her mother...’
“嗯，你走后不久他就出现在这里，正如我所见，他非常爱基蒂，而且你知道她的母亲……”

‘Excuse me, but I know nothing,’ said Levin, frowning gloomily. And immediately he recollected his brother Nikolay and how hateful he was to have been able to forget him.
“对不起，我什么都不知道。”莱文阴沉地皱着眉头说道。他立刻想起了他的兄弟尼古拉，他是多么可恨自己竟然忘记了他。

‘You wait a bit, wait a bit,’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch, smiling and touching his hand. ‘I’ve told you what I know, and I repeat that in this delicate and tender matter, as far as one can conjecture, I believe the chances are in your favor.’
“你等一下，等一下，”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇微笑着碰触他的手说道。 “我已经告诉你我所知道的事情了，我再说一遍，在这件微妙而温柔的事情上，据人们所能推测，我相信机会对你有利。”

Levin dropped back in his chair; his face was pale.
莱文坐回椅子上。他的脸色苍白。

‘But I would advise you to settle the thing as soon as may be,’ pursued Oblonsky, filling up his glass.
“但我建议你尽快解决这件事，”奥布朗斯基继续说道，给他的杯子斟满了酒。

‘No, thanks, I can’t drink any more,’ said Levin, pushing away his glass. ‘I shall be drunk.... Come, tell me how are you getting on?’ he went on, obviously anxious to change the conversation.
“不，谢谢，我不能再喝酒了，”莱文推开杯子说道。 “我会喝醉的……来吧，告诉我你过得怎么样？”他继续说道，显然急于改变话题。

‘One word more: in any case I advise you to settle the question soon. Tonight I don’t advise you to speak,’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch. ‘Go round tomorrow morning, make an offer in due form, and God bless you...’
‘再说一句：无论如何我劝你尽快解决这个问题。今晚我不建议你说话。”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇说道。 “明天早上去一趟，以适当的形式提出报价，上帝保佑你……”

‘Oh, do you still think of coming to me for some shooting? Come next spring, do,’ said Levin.
‘哦，你还想来找我拍戏吗？来年春天吧，”莱文说。

Now his whole soul was full of remorse that he had begun this conversation with Stepan Arkadyevitch. A feeling such as his was profaned by talk of the rivalry of some Petersburg officer, of the suppositions and the counsels of Stepan Arkadyevitch.
现在他的整个灵魂都充满了悔恨，因为他开始与斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇谈话。他的这种感觉因谈论某些彼得堡军官的竞争、斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇的假设和建议而受到亵渎。

Stepan Arkadyevitch smiled. He knew what was passing in Levin’s soul.
斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇笑了。他知道莱文的灵魂里正在发生什么。

‘I’ll come some day,’ he said. ‘But women, my boy, they’re the pivot everything turns upon. Things are in a bad way with me, very bad. And it’s all through women. Tell me frankly now,’ he pursued, picking up a cigar and keeping one hand on his glass; ‘give me your advice.’
“有一天我会来，”他说。 “但是女人，我的孩子，她们是一切的枢纽。我的情况很糟糕，非常糟糕。而这一切都是通过女性实现的。现在就坦白告诉我吧，”他继续说道，拿起一支雪茄，一只手放在酒杯上。 “给我你的建议。”

‘Why, what is it?’
“为什么，那是什么？”

‘I’ll tell you. Suppose you’re married, you love your wife, but you’re fascinated by another woman...’
'我会告诉你。假设你已婚，你爱你的妻子，但你对另一个女人着迷......”

‘Excuse me, but I’m absolutely unable to comprehend how...just as I can’t comprehend how I could now, after my dinner, go straight to a baker’s shop and steal a roll.’
“对不起，我完全无法理解……就像我无法理解我现在怎么能在晚饭后直接去面包店偷面包卷一样。”

Stepan Arkadyevitch’s eyes sparkled more than usual.
斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇的眼睛比平时更加​​闪亮。

‘Why not? A roll will sometimes smell so good one can’t resist it.’
'为什么不？有时候，一卷面包的味道非常好，让人无法抗拒。

“Himmlisch ist’s, w
“希姆利施是，w

Meine irdische Begier;
我的爱尔兰贝吉尔；

Aber doch wenn’s nich gelungen
Aber doch wenn 的 nich gelungen

Hatt’ ich auch recht huebsch Plaisir!’
Hatt' ich auch recht Huebsch Plaisir！’

As he said this, Stepan Arkadyevitch smiled subtly. Levin, too, could not help smiling.
说这话时，斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇微微一笑。莱文也忍不住笑了。

‘Yes, but joking apart,’ resumed Stepan Arkadyevitch, ‘you must understand that the woman is a sweet, gentle loving creature, poor and lonely, and has sacrificed everything. Now, when the thing’s done, don’t you see, can one possibly cast her off? Even supposing one parts from her, so as not to break up one’s family life, still, can one help feeling for her, setting her on her feet, softening her lot?’
“是的，不过开个玩笑，”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇继续说道，“你必须明白，这个女人是一个可爱、温柔、充满爱心的女人，贫穷而孤独，并且牺牲了一切。现在，事情完成后，你难道不明白，有人可以抛弃她吗？即使假设一个人为了不破坏家庭生活而离开她，仍然可以对她产生感情，让她重新站起来，软化她的命运吗？

‘Well, you must excuse me there. You know to me all women are divided into two classes...at least no...truer to say: there are women and there are...I’ve never seen exquisite fallen beings, and I never shall see them, but such creatures as that painted Frenchwoman at the counter with the ringlets are vermin to my mind, and all fallen women are the same.’
‘好吧，你必须原谅我。你知道对我来说，所有女人都分为两类……至少没有……更真实的说法是：有女人，也有……我从未见过精致的堕落生物，我也永远不会看到她们，但是在我看来，柜台上画着卷发的法国女人这样的生物是害虫，所有堕落的女人都是一样的。

‘But the Magdalen?’
“但是玛格达琳呢？”

‘Ah, drop that! Christ would never have said those words if He had known how they would be abused. Of all the Gospel those words are the only ones remembered. However, I’m not saying so much what I think, as what I feel. I have a loathing for fallen women. You’re afraid of spiders, and I of these vermin. Most likely you’ve not made a study of spiders and don’t know their character; and so it is with me.’
‘啊，放下那个！如果基督知道这些话会被怎样滥用的话，他就绝不会说这些话。在所有福音书中，这些话是唯一被记住的。然而，我说的并不是我的想法，而是我的感受。我厌恶堕落的女人。你害怕蜘蛛，我害怕这些害虫。您很可能没有研究过蜘蛛，也不了解它们的性格；我也是如此。

‘It’s very well for you to talk like that; it’s very much like that gentleman in Dickens who used to fling all difficult questions over his right shoulder. But to deny the facts is no answer. What’s to be done—you tell me that, what’s to be done? Your wife gets older, while you’re full of life. Before you’ve time to look round, you feel that you can’t love your wife with love, however much you may esteem her. And then all at once love turns up, and you’re done for, done for,’ Stepan Arkadyevitch said with weary despair.
‘你能这样说话真是太好了；这很像狄更斯笔下的那位绅士，过去常常把所有困难的问题都推到他的右肩上。但否认事实并不是答案。该怎么办——你告诉我，该怎么办？你的妻子渐渐老去，而你却充满活力。在你有时间环顾四周之前，你会觉得无论你多么尊重你的妻子，你都无法用爱来爱她。然后爱情突然出现了，你完蛋了，完蛋了。”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇带着疲倦的绝望说道。

Levin half smiled.
莱文半笑了笑。

‘Yes, you’re done for,’ resumed Oblonsky. ‘But what’s to be done?’
“是的，你完蛋了，”奥布朗斯基继续说道。 “但是该怎么办呢？”

‘Don’t steal rolls.’
“不要偷面包卷。”

Stepan Arkadyevitch laughed outright.
斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇哈哈大笑。

‘Oh, moralist! But you must understand, there are two women; one insists only on her rights, and those rights are your love, which you can’t give her; and the other sacrifices everything for you and asks for nothing. What are you to do? How are you to act? There’s a fearful tragedy in it.’
‘哦，道德家！但你必须明白，有两个女人；一个人只坚持她的权利，而这些权利就是你的爱，你不能给她；而另一个人则为你牺牲一切，不求任何东西。你要做什么？你要如何行动？这里面有一个可怕的悲剧。

‘If you care for my profession of faith as regards that, I’ll tell you that I don’t believe there was any tragedy about it. And this is why. To my mind, love...both the sorts of love, which you remember Plato defines in his Banquet, served as the test of men. Some men only understand one sort, and some only the other. And those who only know the non-platonic love have no need to talk of tragedy. In such love there can be no sort of tragedy. ‘I’m much obliged for the gratification, my humble respects’—that’s all the tragedy. And in platonic love there can be no tragedy, because in that love all is clear and pure, because...’
“如果你关心我的信仰，我会告诉你，我不相信这有什么悲剧。这就是原因。在我看来，爱……这两种爱，你记得柏拉图在他的宴会中定义的，都是对男人的考验。有些人只了解一种，有些人则只了解另一种。而那些只知道非柏拉图式爱情的人，根本就没有必要谈悲剧。在这样的爱中，不可能有任何悲剧。 “我非常感激你的满足，我谨致以谦卑的敬意”——这就是悲剧的全部。在柏拉图式的爱情中，不可能有悲剧，因为在那种爱情中，一切都是清晰而纯洁的，因为……”

At that instant Levin recollected his own sins and the inner conflict he had lived through. And he added unexpectedly:
就在那一刻，莱文回忆起了自己的罪孽和他所经历的内心冲突。他出乎意料地补充道：

‘But perhaps you are right. Very likely...I don’t know, I don’t know.’
“但也许你是对的。很可能……我不知道，我不知道。

‘It’s this, don’t you see,’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch, ‘you’re very much all of a piece. That’s your strong point and your failing. You have a character that’s all of a piece, and you want the whole of life to be of a piece too—but that’s not how it is. You despise public official work because you want the reality to be invariably corresponding all the while with the aim—and that’s not how it is. You want a man’s work, too, always to have a defined aim, and love and family life always to be undivided—and that’s not how it is. All the variety, all the charm, all the beauty of life is made up of light and shadow.’
“就是这个，你没看到吗？”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇说，“你简直就是一个整体。”这是你的优点，也是你的缺点。你有一个完整的角色，你也希望整个生活也是完整的——但事实并非如此。你鄙视公职工作，因为你希望现实始终与目标相符——但事实并非如此。你也希望男人的工作始终有明确的目标，爱情和家庭生活始终不可分割——但事实并非如此。生活中所有的多样性、所有的魅力、所有的美丽都是由光和影组成的。”

Levin sighed and made no reply. He was thinking of his own affairs, and did not hear Oblonsky.
莱文叹了口气，没有回答。他正在想着自己的事情，没有听到奥布朗斯基的话。

And suddenly both of them felt that though they were friends, though they had been dining and drinking together, which should have drawn them closer, yet each was thinking only of his own affairs, and they had nothing to do with one another. Oblonsky had more than once experienced this extreme sense of aloofness, instead of intimacy, coming on after dinner, and he knew what to do in such cases.
突然两人都觉得，虽然是朋友，虽然一起吃饭喝酒，本来应该拉近彼此的距离，但是却各自只顾自己的事情，与对方没有任何关系。奥布朗斯基不止一次经历过这种在晚饭后出现的极端冷漠感，而不是亲密感，他知道在这种情况下该怎么办。

‘Bill!’ he called, and he went into the next room where he promptly came across an aide-de-camp of his acquaintance and dropped into conversation with him about an actress and her protector. And at once in the conversation with the aide-de-camp Oblonsky had a sense of relaxation and relief after the conversation with Levin, which always put him to too great a mental and spiritual strain.
“比尔！”他喊道，然后走进隔壁房间，很快就遇到了一位熟人的副官，并与他谈论了一位女演员和她的保护人。在与副官的谈话中，奥布隆斯基在与莱文的谈话之后立即感到一种放松和解脱的感觉，这总是使他的精神和精神压力过大。

When the Tatar appeared with a bill for twenty-six roubles and odd kopecks, besides a tip for himself, Levin, who would another time have been horrified, like any one from the country, at his share of fourteen roubles, did not notice it, paid, and set off homewards to dress and go to the Shtcherbatskys’ there to decide his fate.
当鞑靼人带着一张二十六卢布零零戈比的钞票出现时，除了给自己的小费外，列文也没有注意到，如果再有一次，他会像任何一个乡下人一样，看到自己那份十四卢布时会感到震惊。付了钱，就出发回家穿好衣服，去谢尔巴茨基夫妇那里决定他的命运。

Chapter 12
第12章

The young Princess Kitty Shtcherbatskaya was eighteen. It was the first winter that she had been out in the world. Her success in society had been greater than that of either of her elder sisters, and greater even than her mother had anticipated. To say nothing of the young men who danced at the Moscow balls being almost all in love with Kitty, two serious suitors had already this first winter made their appearance: Levin, and immediately after his departure, Count Vronsky.
年轻的凯蒂·谢尔巴茨卡娅公主当时十八岁。这是她来到这个世界的第一个冬天。她在社会上的成功比她的两个姐姐都大，甚至比她母亲的预期还要大。更不用说那些在莫斯科舞会上跳舞的年轻人几乎都爱上了基蒂，两个认真的追求者已经在第一个冬天出现了：莱文和他离开后立即出现的渥伦斯基伯爵。

Levin’s appearance at the beginning of the winter, his frequent visits, and evident love for Kitty, had led to the first serious conversations between Kitty’s parents as to her future, and to disputes between them. The prince was on Levin’s side; he said he wished for nothing better for Kitty. The princess for her part, going round the question in the manner peculiar to women, maintained that Kitty was too young, that Levin had done nothing to prove that he had serious intentions, that Kitty felt no great attraction to him, and other side issues; but she did not state the principal point, which was that she looked for a better match for her daughter, and that Levin was not to her liking, and she did not understand him. When Levin had abruptly departed, the princess was delighted, and said to her husband triumphantly: ‘You see I was right.’ When Vronsky appeared on the scene, she was still more delighted, confirmed in her opinion that Kitty was to make not simply a good, but a brilliant match.
莱文在冬初的出现、他的频繁拜访以及对基蒂明显的爱，导致基蒂的父母第一次就她的未来进行认真的对话，并引发了他们之间的争执。王子站在莱文一边。他说他对基蒂没有什么更好的希望。公主则以女性特有的方式回避这个问题，坚持认为基蒂太年轻，莱文没有采取任何行动来证明他有认真的意图，基蒂对他没有太大的吸引力，还有其他一些问题。 ;但她没有说出主要的一点，那就是她为女儿寻找更好的对象，而莱文不合她的意，她不理解他。当莱文突然离开时，公主很高兴，得意洋洋地对她的丈夫说：“你看，我是对的。”当渥伦斯基出现在现场时，她更加高兴，证实了她的观点，基蒂不仅要做一场精彩而精彩的比赛。

In the mother’s eyes there could be no comparison between Vronsky and Levin. She disliked in Levin his strange and uncompromising opinions and his shyness in society, founded, as she supposed, on his pride and his queer sort of life, as she considered it, absorbed in cattle and peasants. She did not very much like it that he, who was in love with her daughter, had kept coming to the house for six weeks, as though he were waiting for something, inspecting, as though he were afraid he might be doing them too great an honor by making an offer, and did not realize that a man, who continually visits at a house where there is a young unmarried girl, is bound to make his intentions clear. And suddenly, without doing so, he disappeared. ‘It’s as well he’s not attractive enough for Kitty to have fallen in love with him,’ thought the mother.
在母亲眼中，渥伦斯基和莱文无法相提并论。她不喜欢莱文奇怪的、不妥协的观点和他在社会上的害羞，正如她所认为的那样，建立在他的骄傲和他奇怪的生活之上，正如她所认为的那样，专注于牛和农民。她很不喜欢他，这个深爱着她女儿的人，连续六个星期一直到家里来，好像在等待什么，检查什么，好像担心自己做得太过分了。提出要约是一种荣幸，却没有意识到，一个男人不断拜访有年轻未婚女孩的房子，必然会明确表示自己的意图。突然，他没有这样做，就消失了。 “还好他没有足够的吸引力让基蒂爱上他，”母亲想。

Vronsky satisfied all the mother’s desires. Very wealthy, clever, of aristocratic family, on the highroad to a brilliant career in the army and at court, and a fascinating man. Nothing better could be wished for.
渥伦斯基满足了母亲的所有愿望。非常富有，聪明，出身于贵族家庭，在军队和宫廷中取得辉煌的职业生涯，是一个迷人的男人。没有什么比这更好的了。

Vronsky openly flirted with Kitty at balls, danced with her, and came continually to the house, consequently there could be no doubt of the seriousness of his intentions. But, in spite of that, the mother had spent the whole of that winter in a state of terrible anxiety and agitation.
渥伦斯基在舞会上公开与基蒂调情，与她跳舞，并不断来到家里，因此毫无疑问他的意图是认真的。但尽管如此，母亲整个冬天都处于极度焦虑和不安的状态中。

Princess Shtcherbatskaya had herself been married thirty years ago, her aunt arranging the match. Her husband, about whom everything was well known before hand, had come, looked at his future bride, and been looked at. The match-making aunt had ascertained and communicated their mutual impression. That impression had been favorable. Afterwards, on a day fixed beforehand, the expected offer was made to her parents, and accepted. All had passed very simply and easily. So it seemed, at least, to the princess. But over her own daughters she had felt how far from simple and easy is the business, apparently so commonplace, of marrying off one’s daughters. The panics that had been lived through, the thoughts that had been brooded over, the money that had been wasted, and the disputes with her husband over marrying the two elder girls, Darya and Natalia! Now, since the youngest had come out, she was going through the same terrors, the same doubts, and still more violent quarrels with her husband than she had over the elder girls. The old prince, like all fathers indeed, was exceedingly punctilious on the score of the honor and reputation of his daughters. He was irrationally jealous over his daughters, especially over Kitty, who was his favorite. At every turn he had scenes with the princess for compromising her daughter. The princess had grown accustomed to this already with her other daughters, but now she felt that there was more ground for the prince’s touchiness. She saw that of late years much was changed in the manners of society, that a mother’s duties had become still more difficult. She saw that girls of Kitty’s age formed some sort of clubs, went to some sort of lectures, mixed freely in men’s society; drove about the streets alone, many of them did not curtsey, and, what was the most important thing, all the girls were firmly convinced that to choose their husbands was their own affair, and not their parents’. ‘Marriages aren’t made nowadays as they used to be,’ was thought and said by all these young girls, and even by their elders. But how marriages were made now, the princess could not learn from any one. The French fashion—of the parents arranging their children’s future—was not accepted; it was condemned. The English fashion of the complete independence of girls was also not accepted, and not possible in Russian society. The Russian fashion of match-making by the offices of intermediate persons was for some reason considered unseemly; it was ridiculed by every one, and by the princess herself. But how girls were to be married, and how parents were to marry them, no one knew. Everyone with whom the princess had chanced to discuss the matter said the same thing: ‘Mercy on us, it’s high time in our day to cast off all that old-fashioned business. It’s the young people have to marry; and not their parents; and so we ought to leave the young people to arrange it as they choose.’ It was very easy for anyone to say that who had no daughters, but the princess realized that in the process of getting to know each other, her daughter might fall in love, and fall in love with someone who did not care to marry her or who was quite unfit to be her husband. And, however much it was instilled into the princess that in our times young people ought to arrange their lives for themselves, she was unable to believe it, just as she would have been unable to believe that, at any time whatever, the most suitable playthings for children five years old ought to be loaded pistols. And so the princess was more uneasy over Kitty than she had been over her elder sisters.
谢尔巴茨卡娅公主三十年前就结婚了，是她的姨妈安排了这门亲事。她的丈夫来了，一切都早已众所周知，他看着他未来的新娘，也被人看着。做媒的阿姨已经确定并传达了彼此的印象。这种印象是有利的。之后，在事先约定的一天，向她的父母提出了预期的提议，并接受了。一切都过得非常简单、轻松。至少对公主来说是这样。但在她自己的女儿身上，她感觉到将女儿嫁出去是多么不简单和容易的事，这显然是司空见惯的事。经历过的恐慌，沉思过的思绪，浪费过的金钱，以及为娶两个大女儿达莉亚和娜塔莉亚而与丈夫发生的争执！现在，自从最小的女儿出来后，她也经历着同样的恐惧、同样的怀疑，以及与丈夫的争吵，比她为大女儿经历的还要激烈。老王子确实像所有的父亲一样，对女儿们的荣誉和名誉极为挑剔。他对自己的女儿们产生了非理性的嫉妒，尤其是他最喜欢的凯蒂。每次他都会因为公主的女儿而与她发生冲突。公主和其他女儿们已经习惯了这一点，但现在她觉得王子的敏感有更多的理由。她看到近年来社会风气发生了很大变化，母亲的职责变得更加困难。 她看到基蒂这个年纪的女孩子组成某种俱乐部，参加某种讲座，自由地混入男人的社会；独自开车在街上走来走去，很多人都没有行屈膝礼，而且最重要的是，所有女孩都坚信，选择丈夫是她们自己的事，而不是父母的事。 “现在的婚姻不像以前那样了”，所有这些年轻女孩，甚至她们的长辈都这样想和说过。但现在如何结婚，公主却无法向任何人学习。法国的时尚——由父母安排孩子的未来——没有被接受；它受到谴责。英国女孩完全独立的时尚也没有被接受，在俄罗斯社会也是不可能的。出于某种原因，俄罗斯由中间人办公室牵线搭桥的方式被认为是不体面的。这遭到了所有人的嘲笑，也遭到了公主本人的嘲笑。但女孩如何结婚，父母如何为她们结婚，却没有人知道。每个有机会与公主讨论此事的人都说了同样的话：“怜悯我们，现在是时候抛弃所有那些老式的事情了。”年轻人必须结婚；而不是他们的父母； “所以我们应该让年轻人自行安排。”没有女儿的人说起来很容易，但公主意识到，在相互了解的过程中，她的女儿可能会堕落。爱上一个不愿意娶她或者根本不适合做她丈夫的人。 而且，无论公主被灌输多少“我们这个时代的年轻人应该为自己安排自己的生活”的观念，她都无法相信，就像她无法相信，在任何时候，最合适的人都是最适合自己的。五岁儿童的玩具应该是装有子弹的手枪。因此，公主对基蒂的不安比对她姐姐们的不安还要多。

Now she was afraid that Vronsky might confine himself to simply flirting with her daughter. She saw that her daughter was in love with him, but tried to comfort herself with the thought that he was an honorable man, and would not do this. But at the same time she knew how easy it is, with the freedom of manners of today, to turn a girl’s head, and how lightly men generally regard such a crime. The week before, Kitty had told her mother of a conversation she had with Vronsky during a mazurka. This conversation had partly reassured the princess; but perfectly at ease she could not be. Vronsky had told Kitty that both he and his brother were so used to obeying their mother that they never made up their minds to any important undertaking without consulting her. ‘And just now, I am impatiently awaiting my mother’s arrival from Petersburg, as peculiarly fortunate,’ he told her.
现在她担心渥伦斯基可能只会和她女儿调情。她看出女儿爱上了他，但又安慰自己，他是个正人君子，不会这么做。但与此同时，她知道，在当今的礼仪自由下，要让一个女孩转头是多么容易，而且男人们通常对这种犯罪行为是多么轻视。一周前，基蒂告诉她妈妈她在玛祖卡舞会上与渥伦斯基的一次谈话。这次谈话让公主稍微放心了一些。但她却无法完全放松。渥伦斯基告诉基蒂，他和他的兄弟都习惯于服从他们的母亲，以至于在没有咨询她的情况下，他们从来不会决定做任何重要的事情。 “现在，我正在焦急地等待我母亲从圣彼得堡到来，这真是太幸运了，”他告诉她。

Kitty had repeated this without attaching any significance to the words. But her mother saw them in a different light. She knew that the old lady was expected from day to day, that she would be pleased at her son’s choice, and she felt it strange that he should not make his offer through fear of vexing his mother. However, she was so anxious for the marriage itself, and still more for relief from her fears, that she believed it was so. Bitter as it was for the princess to see the unhappiness of her eldest daughter, Dolly, on the point of leaving her husband, her anxiety over the decision of her youngest daughter’s fate engrossed all her feelings. Today, with Levin’s reappearance, a fresh source of anxiety arose. She was afraid that her daughter, who had at one time, as she fancied, a feeling for Levin, might, from extreme sense of honor, refuse Vronsky, and that Levin’s arrival might generally complicate and delay the affair so near being concluded.
基蒂重复了这句话，但没有赋予这句话任何意义。但她母亲却以不同的眼光看待他们。她知道老太太每天都在期待着她，她会对儿子的选择感到高兴，但她觉得很奇怪，因为害怕惹恼他的母亲，他不应该提出这个建议。然而，她对婚姻本身如此着急，更渴望摆脱恐惧，所以她相信事实确实如此。看到大女儿多莉即将离开丈夫的不幸，公主心里很痛苦，但她对小女儿命运的决定却充满了焦虑。今天，随着莱文的再次出现，新的焦虑源又出现了。她担心她的女儿，正如她想象的那样，曾经对莱文有一种感情，可能会出于极端的荣誉感而拒绝渥伦斯基，而莱文的到来通常会使这件即将结束的事情变得复杂化并推迟。

‘Why, has he been here long?’ the princess asked about Levin, as they returned home.
“怎么，他来这里很久了？”当他们回到家时，公主问起莱文。

‘He came today, mamma.’
“他今天来了，妈妈。”

‘There’s one thing I want to say...’ began the princess, and from her serious and alert face, Kitty guessed what it would be.
“我想说一件事……”公主开口了，从她严肃而警觉的脸上，基蒂猜到了。

‘Mamma,’ she said, flushing hotly and turning quickly to her, ‘please, please don’t say anything about that. I know, I know all about it.’
“妈妈，”她涨红了脸，迅速转向她，“求你，求你不要再说这件事。”我知道，我知道这一切。

She wished for what her mother wished for, but the motives of her mother’s wishes wounded her.
她希望得到母亲的希望，但母亲愿望的动机却伤害了她。

‘I only want to say that to raise hopes...’
“我这么说只是为了燃起希望……”

‘Mamma, darling, for goodness’ sake, don’t talk about it. It’s so horrible to talk about it.’
“妈妈，亲爱的，看在上帝的份上，别再谈论这件事了。”谈论它真是太可怕了。

‘I won’t,’ said her mother, seeing the tears in her daughter’s eyes; ‘but one thing, my love; you promised me you would have no secrets from me. You won’t?’
“我不会的，”她母亲看着女儿眼中的泪水说道。 “但有一件事，亲爱的；你答应过我你不会向我透露任何秘密。你不会吗？

‘Never, mamma, none,’ answered Kitty, flushing a little, and looking her mother straight in the face, ‘but there’s no use in my telling you anything, and I...I...if I wanted to, I don’t know what to say or how...I don’t know...’
“从来没有，妈妈，从来没有，”基蒂回答道，她的脸有点红，直视着她妈妈的脸，“但是我告诉你任何事情都是没有用的，而且我……我……如果我愿意的话，我不知道该说什么或怎么说……我不知道……”

‘No, she could not tell an untruth with those eyes,’ thought the mother, smiling at her agitation and happiness. The princess smiled that what was taking place just now in her soul seemed to the poor child so immense and so important.
“不，她用那双眼睛无法说出谎言。”母亲想道，对自己的激动和幸福微笑着。公主笑了，因为对于这个可怜的孩子来说，她灵魂中刚刚发生的事情是如此巨大和重要。

Chapter 13
第13章

After dinner, and till the beginning of the evening, Kitty was feeling a sensation akin to the sensation of a young man before a battle. Her heart throbbed violently, and her thoughts would not rest on anything.
晚饭后，一直到傍晚，基蒂都感觉到一种类似于年轻人临阵前的感觉。她的心剧烈地跳动着，她的思绪无法停留在任何事情上。

She felt that this evening, when they would both meet for the first time, would be a turning point in her life. And she was continually picturing them to herself, at one moment each separately, and then both together. When she mused on the past, she dwelt with pleasure, with tenderness, on the memories of her relations with Levin. The memories of childhood and of Levin’s friendship with her dead brother gave a special poetic charm to her relations with him. His love for her, of which she felt certain, was flattering and delightful to her; and it was pleasant for her to think of Levin. In her memories of Vronsky there always entered a certain element of awkwardness, though he was in the highest degree well-bred and at ease, as though there were some false note—not in Vronsky, he was very simple and nice, but in herself, while with Levin she felt perfectly simple and clear. But, on the other hand, directly she thought of the future with Vronsky, there arose before her a perspective of brilliant happiness; with Levin the future seemed misty.
她觉得今晚，当他们第一次见面时，将是她人生的转折点。她不断地在心里想象他们，一会儿各自分开，一会儿又在一起。当她沉思过去时，她满怀喜悦、温柔地回忆起她与莱文的关系。童年的记忆以及莱文与她死去的兄弟的友谊给她和他的关系增添了一种特殊的诗意魅力。她确信他对她的爱让她感到受宠若惊、心旷神怡。想到莱文她就很高兴。在她对渥伦斯基的记忆中，总有一种尴尬的成分，尽管他非常有教养，很自在，好像有一些错误的音符——不是在渥伦斯基身上，他非常简单和友善，但在她自己身上，而与莱文在一起时，她感觉非常简单和清晰。但另一方面，一想到和渥伦斯基的未来，她的眼前就浮现出一种灿烂幸福的景象；对于莱文来说，未来似乎是一片迷雾。

When she went upstairs to dress, and looked into the looking-glass, she noticed with joy that it was one of her good days, and that she was in complete possession of all her forces,—she needed this so for what lay before her: she was conscious of external composure and free grace in her movements.
当她上楼穿衣服，看着镜子时，她高兴地发现这是她的美好时光之一，她完全拥有了她所有的力量——她需要这个，所以她面前的一切：她意识到自己的外在镇静和动作的自由优雅。

At half-past seven she had only just gone down into the drawing room, when the footman announced, ‘Konstantin Dmitrievitch Levin.’ The princess was still in her room, and the prince had not come in. ‘So it is to be,’ thought Kitty, and all the blood seemed to rush to her heart. She was horrified at her paleness, as she glanced into the looking-glass. At that moment she knew beyond doubt that he had come early on purpose to find her alone and to make her an offer. And only then for the first time the whole thing presented itself in a new, different aspect; only then she realized that the question did not affect her only— with whom she would be happy, and whom she loved—but that she would have that moment to wound a man whom she liked. And to wound him cruelly. What for? Because he, dear fellow, loved her, was in love with her. But there was no help for it, so it must be, so it would have to be.
七点半，她刚下楼走进客厅，男仆宣布：“康斯坦丁·德米特里耶维奇·莱文。”公主还在她的房间里，王子还没有进来。 ”基蒂想道，所有的血液似乎都涌向了她的心脏。当她望向镜子时，她对自己的苍白感到震惊。那一刻，她毫无疑问地知道，他是故意早来的，就是为了单独找到她，并向她提出要约。直到那时，整个事情才第一次以一个新的、不同的方面呈现出来。直到那时她才意识到，这个问题不仅仅影响她——和谁在一起她会幸福，她爱谁——而且她也会有那一刻伤害她喜欢的男人。并残忍地伤害他。做什么的？因为他，亲爱的朋友，爱她，爱她。但没有办法，所以必须如此，必须如此。

‘My God! shall I myself really have to say it to him?’ she thought. ‘Can I tell him I don’t love him? That will be a lie. What am I to say to him? That I love someone else? No, that’s impossible. I’m going away, I’m going away.’
'我的上帝！我真的必须亲自对他说吗？”她想。 ‘我可以告诉他我不爱他吗？那将是一个谎言。我该对他说什么？说我爱别人？不，那是不可能的。我要走了，我要走了。

She had reached the door, when she heard his step. ‘No! it’s not honest. What have I to be afraid of? I have done nothing wrong. What is to be, will be! I’ll tell the truth. And with him one can’t be ill at ease. Here he is,’ she said to herself, seeing his powerful, shy figure, with his shining eyes fixed on her. She looked straight into his face, as though imploring him to spare her, and gave her hand.
她刚走到门口，就听到了他的脚步声。 '不！这不诚实。我有什么可害怕的？我没有做错任何事。该是的，将会是！我会说实话。和他在一起，你不会感到不自在。他在这里，”她对自己说，看到他强大而害羞的身影，闪亮的眼睛盯着她。她直视着他的脸，仿佛恳求他放过她，然后伸出了手。

‘It’s not time yet; I think I’m too early,’ he said glancing round the empty drawing room. When he saw that his expectations were realized, that there was nothing to prevent him from speaking, his face became gloomy.
‘时间还没到；我想我来得太早了。”他环顾空荡荡的客厅说道。当他看到自己的期望实现了，而且没有什么可以阻止他说话时，他的脸色变得阴沉起来。

‘Oh, no,’ said Kitty, and sat down at the table.
“哦，不，”基蒂说，然后在桌边坐下。

‘But this was just what I wanted, to find you alone,’ he began, not sitting down, and not looking at her, so as not to lose courage.
“但这正是我想要的，单独找到你，”他开始说道，没有坐下，也没有看她，以免失去勇气。

‘Mamma will be down directly. She was very much tired.... Yesterday...’
‘妈妈会直接下来。她很累……昨天……”

She talked on, not knowing what her lips were uttering, and not taking her supplicating and caressing eyes off him.
她继续说着，不知道自己的嘴唇在说什么，恳求和爱抚的目光始终没有离开他。

He glanced at her; she blushed, and ceased speaking.
他看了她一眼；她脸红了，不再说话了。

‘I told you I did not know whether I should be here long...that it depended on you...’
“我告诉过你我不知道我是否应该在这里呆很长时间……这取决于你……”

She dropped her head lower and lower, not knowing herself what answer she should make to what was coming.
她的头越来越低，不知道自己该如何回答即将发生的事情。

‘That it depended on you,’ he repeated. ‘I meant to say...I meant to say...I came for this...to be my wife!’ he brought out, not knowing what he was saying; but feeling that the most terrible thing was said, he stopped short and looked at her...
“这取决于你，”他重复道。 “我想说……我想说……我是为了这个……成为我的妻子！”他说，不知道自己在说什么。但感觉最可怕的事情已经说到了，他突然停了下来，看着她……

She was breathing heavily, not looking at him. She was feeling ecstasy. Her soul was flooded with happiness. She had never anticipated that the utterance of love would produce such a powerful effect on her. But it lasted only an instant. She remembered Vronsky. She lifted her clear, truthful eyes, and seeing his desperate face, she answered hastily:
她呼吸粗重，没有看他。她感到狂喜。她的灵魂充满了幸福。她没想到，一句爱的话语，会对她产生如此强大的影响。但这只持续了一瞬间。她记得渥伦斯基。她抬起清澈真实的眼睛，看到他绝望的脸，急忙回答：

‘That cannot be...forgive me.’
“那不可能……请原谅我。”

A moment ago, and how close she had been to him, of what importance in his life! And how aloof and remote from him she had become now!
刚才，她离他有多近，在他的生命中有多重要！而她现在对他是多么疏远啊！

‘It was bound to be so,’ he said, not looking at her.
“事情必然如此，”他说，没有看她。

He bowed, and was meaning to retreat.
他躬身行礼，打算退下。

Chapter 14
第14章

But at that very moment the princess came in. There was a look of horror on her face when she saw them alone, and their disturbed faces. Levin bowed to her, and said nothing. Kitty did not speak nor lift her eyes. ‘Thank God, she has refused him,’ thought the mother, and her face lighted up with the habitual smile with which she greeted her guests on Thursdays. She sat down and began questioning Levin about his life in the country. He sat down again, waiting for other visitors to arrive, in order to retreat unnoticed.
但就在这时，公主进来了。当她看到他们独自一人，以及他们不安的表情时，她脸上露出惊恐的表情。列文向她鞠了一躬，什么也没说。凯蒂没有说话，也没有抬起眼睛。 “感谢上帝，她拒绝了他。”母亲心想，她的脸上露出了周四迎接客人时惯常的微笑。她坐下来，开始向莱文询问他在乡下的生活。他又坐下来，等待其他访客到来，以便不被人注意地撤退。

Five minutes later there came in a friend of Kitty’s, married the preceding winter, Countess Nordston.
五分钟后，基蒂的一位朋友诺德斯顿伯爵夫人进来了，她于去年冬天结婚。

She was a thin, sallow, sickly, and nervous woman, with brilliant black eyes. She was fond of Kitty, and her affection for her showed itself, as the affection of married women for girls always does, in the desire to make a match for Kitty after her own ideal of married happiness; she wanted her to marry Vronsky. Levin she had often met at the Shtcherbatskys’ early in the winter, and she had always disliked him. Her invariable and favorite pursuit, when they met, consisted in making fun of him.
她是一个瘦弱、面黄、体弱多病、神经质的女人，有一双明亮的黑眼睛。她喜欢基蒂，她对她的感情表现在，就像已婚妇女对女孩的感情一样，她渴望按照自己的婚姻幸福理想为基蒂找到一个对象；她希望她嫁给渥伦斯基。初冬时节，她经常在谢尔巴茨基家遇见莱文，但她一直不喜欢他。当他们见面时，她最喜欢的、不变的就是取笑他。

‘I do like it when he looks down at me from the height of his grandeur, or breaks off his learned conversation with me because I’m a fool, or is condescending to me. I like that so; to see him condescending! I am so glad he can’t bear me,’ she used to say of him.
“我确实喜欢他从威严的高度俯视我，或者因为我是个傻瓜而中断与我的有学问的谈话，或者居高临下地对待我。我很喜欢这样；看他居高临下！我很高兴他不能忍受我，”她常常这样评价他。

She was right, for Levin actually could not bear her, and despised her for what she was proud of and regarded as a fine characteristic—her nervousness, her delicate contempt and indifference for everything coarse and earthly.
她是对的，因为莱文实际上无法忍受她，并且因为她引以为豪并被视为优良品质的东西而鄙视她——她的神经质，她对一切粗俗和世俗事物的微妙的蔑视和冷漠。

The Countess Nordston and Levin got into that relation with one another not seldom seen in society, when two persons, who remain externally on friendly terms, despise each other to such a degree that they cannot even take each other seriously, and cannot even be offended by each other.
诺德斯顿伯爵夫人和莱文之间的关系在社会上并不罕见，两个人表面上保持着友好的关系，却互相鄙视对方，以至于他们甚至无法认真对待对方，甚至无法被冒犯。彼此。

The Countess Nordston pounced upon Levin at once.
诺德斯顿伯爵夫人立刻向莱文扑了过来。

‘Ah, Konstantin Dmitrievitch! So you’ve come back to our corrupt Babylon,’ she said, giving him her tiny, yellow hand, and recalling what he had chanced to say early in the winter, that Moscow was a Babylon. ‘Come, is Babylon reformed, or have you degenerated?’ she added, glancing with a simper at Kitty.
“啊，康斯坦丁·德米特里耶维奇！所以你又回到了我们腐败的巴比伦，”她说着，把她那只黄色的小手递给了他，并回忆起他在初冬时偶然说过的话，莫斯科是一个巴比伦。 “来吧，巴比伦是改革了，还是堕落了？”她补充道，笑着看了凯蒂一眼。

‘It’s very flattering for me, countess, that you remember my words so well,’ responded Levin, who had succeeded in recovering his composure, and at once from habit dropped into his tone of joking hostility to the Countess Nordston. ‘They must certainly make a great impression on you.’
“伯爵夫人，你把我的话记得这么清楚，我真是太受宠若惊了。”莱文回答道，他成功地恢复了镇静，并立即习惯性地变成了对诺德斯顿伯爵夫人开玩笑的敌意语气。 “他们肯定给你留下了深刻的印象。”

‘Oh, I should think so! I always note them all down. Well, Kitty, have you been skating again?...’
‘哦，我应该这么认为！我总是把它们全部记下来。好吧，凯蒂，你又开始滑冰了吗？……”

And she began talking to Kitty. Awkward as it was for Levin to withdraw now, it would still have been easier for him to perpetrate this awkwardness than to remain all the evening and see Kitty, who glanced at him now and then and avoided his eyes. He was on the point of getting up, when the princess, noticing that he was silent, addressed him.
她开始和基蒂说话。尽管莱文现在退出很尴尬，但对他来说，犯这种尴尬仍然比整个晚上留下来看基蒂更容易，基蒂时不时地瞥他一眼，避开他的眼睛。他正要起身，公主发现他沉默不语，就对他说话。

‘Shall you be long in Moscow? You’re busy with the district council, though, aren’t you, and can’t be away for long?’
“你会在莫斯科待很长时间吗？”不过，你正忙于区议会的事务，不是吗，不能离开太久吗？

‘No, princess, I’m no longer a member of the council,’ he said. ‘I have come up for a few days.’
“不，公主，我不再是议会成员了，”他说。 “我已经上来好几天了。”

‘There’s something the matter with him,’ thought Countess Nordston, glancing at his stern, serious face. ‘He isn’t in his old argumentative mood. But I’ll draw him out. I do love making a fool of him before Kitty, and I’ll do it.’
“他有点问题，”诺德斯顿伯爵夫人看着他严肃而严肃的脸，心想。 “他不再像以前那样争论了。”但我会把他拉出来。我确实喜欢在基蒂面前愚弄他，我会这么做的。

‘Konstantin Dmitrievitch,’ she said to him, ‘do explain to me, please, what’s the meaning of it. You know all about such things. At home in our village of Kaluga all the peasants and all the women have drunk up all they possessed, and now they can’t pay us any rent. What’s the meaning of that? You always praise the peasants so.’
“康斯坦丁·德米特里耶维奇，”她对他说，“请给我解释一下，这是什么意思。”这些事情你都知道。在我们卡卢加村的家里，所有的农民和所有的妇女都喝光了他们拥有的一切，现在他们付不起我们任何租金。那是什么意思？你总是这样称赞农民。”

At that instant another lady came into the room, and Levin got up.
就在这时，另一位女士走进了房间，莱文站了起来。

‘Excuse me, countess, but I really know nothing about it, and can’t tell you anything,’ he said, and looked round at the officer who came in behind the lady.
“对不起，伯爵夫人，但我真的对此一无所知，也无法告诉您任何事情，”他说，转头看了看那位女士身后进来的军官。

‘That must be Vronsky,’ thought Levin, and, to be sure of it, glanced at Kitty. She had already had time to look at Vronsky, and looked round at Levin. And simply from the look in her eyes, that grew unconsciously brighter, Levin knew that she loved that man, knew it as surely as if she had told him so in words. But what sort of a man was he? Now, whether for good or for ill, Levin could not choose but remain; he must find out what the man was like whom she loved.
“那一定是渥伦斯基，”列文想，为了确定这一点，他看了基蒂一眼。她已经有时间看看渥伦斯基，又看看莱文。仅仅从她不自觉变得更加明亮的眼神中，莱文就知道她爱那个男人，知道这一点，就像她用言语告诉他一样。但他到底是一个什么样的人呢？现在，无论是好还是坏，莱文都别无选择，只能留下来。他必须弄清楚她所爱的那个男人是怎样的人。

There are people who, on meeting a successful rival, no matter in what, are at once disposed to turn their backs on everything good in him, and to see only what is bad. There are people, on the other hand, who desire above all to find in that lucky rival the qualities by which he has outstripped them, and seek with a throbbing ache at heart only what is good. Levin belonged to the second class. But he had no difficulty in finding what was good and attractive in Vronsky. It was apparent at the first glance. Vronsky was a squarely built, dark man, not very tall, with a good-humored, handsome, and exceedingly calm and resolute face. Everything about his face and figure, from his short-cropped black hair and freshly shaven chin down to his loosely fitting, brand-new uniform, was simple and at the same time elegant. Making way for the lady who had come in, Vronsky went up to the princess and then to Kitty.
有些人，一旦遇到一个成功的对手，无论在什么方面，都会立即抛弃他身上的一切优点，而只看到他的缺点。另一方面，有些人最渴望的是在那个幸运的对手身上找到他超越他们的品质，并且带着内心的悸动只寻找好的东西。莱文属于第二类。但他毫不费力地发现了渥伦斯基身上的优点和吸引力。乍一看就很明显。渥伦斯基身材方正，肤色黝黑，个子不高，幽默风趣，英俊潇洒，面容异常平静和坚决。他的脸和身材，从剪短的黑发、刚剃光的下巴，到宽松合身的全新制服，都显得简洁而优雅。渥伦斯基给进来的女士让路，走到公主跟前，然后又走向凯蒂。

As he approached her, his beautiful eyes shone with a specially tender light, and with a faint, happy, and modestly triumphant smile (so it seemed to Levin), bowing carefully and respectfully over her, he held out his small broad hand to her.
当他走近她时，他美丽的眼睛闪烁着特别温柔的光芒，带着淡淡的、幸福的、谦虚的胜利的微笑（莱文似乎是这样），小心翼翼地向她鞠躬，向她伸出了宽阔的小手。 。

Greeting and saying a few words to everyone, he sat down without once glancing at Levin, who had never taken his eyes off him.
他跟大家打了个招呼，说了几句话，就坐了下来，连看都没看莱文一眼，莱文的目光始终没有离开过他。

‘Let me introduce you,’ said the princess, indicating Levin. ‘Konstantin Dmitrievitch Levin, Count Alexey Kirillovitch Vronsky.’
“让我来介绍一下你吧，”公主指着莱文说道。 “康斯坦丁·德米特里耶维奇·莱文，阿列克谢·基里洛维奇·渥伦斯基伯爵。”

Vronsky got up and, looking cordially at Levin, shook hands with him.
渥伦斯基站起来，亲切地看着列文，与他握手。

‘I believe I was to have dined with you this winter,’ he said, smiling his simple and open smile; ‘but you had unexpectedly left for the country.’
“我想今年冬天我应该和你一起吃饭，”他微笑着说，脸上露出简单而开放的笑容。 “但你出乎意料地去了乡下。”

‘Konstantin Dmitrievitch despises and hates town and us townspeople,’ said Countess Nordston.
“康斯坦丁·德米特里耶维奇鄙视并憎恨城镇和我们城镇居民，”诺德斯顿伯爵夫人说。

‘My words must make a deep impression on you, since you remember them so well,’ said Levin, and, suddenly conscious that he had said just the same thing before, he reddened.
“我的话一定给你留下了深刻的印象，因为你记得这么清楚，”莱文说，突然意识到自己以前也说过同样的话，他脸红了。

Vronsky looked at Levin and Countess Nordston, and smiled.
渥伦斯基看着莱文和诺德斯顿伯爵夫人，笑了。

‘Are you always in the country?’ he inquired. ‘I should think it must be dull in the winter.’
“你总是在乡下吗？”他问道。 “我想冬天一定很沉闷。”

‘It’s not dull if one has work to do; besides, one’s not dull by oneself,’ Levin replied abruptly.
“如果一个人有工作要做，那并不乏味；况且，一个人一个人并不无聊。”莱文突然回答道。

‘I am fond of the country,’ said Vronsky, noticing, and affecting not to notice, Levin’s tone.
“我喜欢这个国家，”渥伦斯基说，他注意到了莱文的语气，但假装没有注意到。

‘But I hope, count, you would not consent to live in the country always,’ said Countess Nordston.
“但是伯爵夫人，我希望您不会同意一直住在乡下，”诺德斯顿伯爵夫人说道。

‘I don’t know; I have never tried for long. I experienced a queer feeling once,’ he went on. ‘I never longed so for the country, Russian country, with bast shoes and peasants, as when I was spending a winter with my mother in Nice. Nice itself is dull enough, you know. And indeed, Naples and Sorrento are only pleasant for a short time. And it’s just there that Russia comes back to me most vividly, and especially the country. It’s as though...’
'我不知道;我从来没有尝试过很长时间。我曾经经历过一种奇怪的感觉，”他继续说道。 “我从来没有像我和母亲在尼斯过冬时那样渴望这个国家，俄罗斯的国家，有韧皮鞋和农民。你知道，尼斯本身就够乏味的。事实上，那不勒斯和索伦托只是短暂的愉快。正是在那里，俄罗斯，尤其是这个国家，给我留下了最深刻的印象。就好像……’

He talked on, addressing both Kitty and Levin, turning his serene, friendly eyes from one to the other, and saying obviously just what came into his head.
他继续说话，对基蒂和莱文说话，用平静而友好的目光从一只转向另一只，显然说出了他的想法。

Noticing that Countess Nordston wanted to say something, he stopped short without finishing what he had begun, and listened attentively to her.
见诺德斯顿伯爵夫人想说什么，他话没说完就停了下来，聚精会神地听她说话。

The conversation did not flag for an instant, so that the princess, who always kept in reserve, in case a subject should be lacking, two heavy guns—the relative advantages of classical and of modern education, and universal military service—had not to move out either of them, while Countess Nordston had not a chance of chaffing Levin.
谈话并没有一刻停止，所以总是保留着储备的公主，以防万一缺少一个主题，两把重枪——古典教育和现代教育的相对优势，以及普遍的兵役制——不得不搬走他们中的任何一个，而诺德斯顿伯爵夫人没有机会惹莱文。

Levin wanted to, and could not, take part in the general conversation; saying to himself every instant, ‘Now go,’ he still did not go, as though waiting for something.
莱文想但不能参加一般谈话。每时每刻都对自己说：“现在走吧。”他还是没有走，仿佛在等待着什么。

The conversation fell upon table-turning and spirits, and Countess Nordston, who believed in spiritualism, began to describe the marvels she had seen.
话题转到了翻桌和烈酒上，信奉招魂术的诺德斯顿伯爵夫人开始描述她所看到的奇迹。

‘Ah, countess, you really must take me, for pity’s sake do take me to see them! I have never seen anything extraordinary, though I am always on the lookout for it everywhere,’ said Vronsky, smiling.
‘啊，伯爵夫人，你真的必须带我去，看在怜悯的份上，带我去见他们吧！我从来没有见过任何非凡的东西，尽管我总是到处寻找它，”渥伦斯基微笑着说道。

‘Very well, next Saturday,’ answered Countess Nordston. ‘But you, Konstantin Dmitrievitch, do you believe in it?’ she asked Levin.
“很好，下周六。”诺德斯顿伯爵夫人回答道。 “但是你，康斯坦丁·德米特里耶维奇，你相信这个吗？”她问莱文。

‘Why do you ask me? You know what I shall say.’
'为什么问我？你知道我会说什么。

‘But I want to hear your opinion.’
“但我想听听你的意见。”

‘My opinion,’ answered Levin, ‘is only that this table-turning simply proves that educated society—so called—is no higher than the peasants. They believe in the evil eye, and in witchcraft and omens, while we...’
“我的观点，”莱文回答道，“只是，这种转变只是证明了所谓的受过教育的社会并不比农民高。他们相信邪眼、巫术和预兆，而我们……”

‘Oh, then you don’t believe in it?’
“哦，那你不相信吗？”

‘I can’t believe in it, countess.’
“我简直不敢相信，伯爵夫人。”

‘But if I’ve seen it myself?’
“但是如果我亲眼所见呢？”

‘The peasant women too tell us they have seen goblins.’
“农妇也告诉我们她们看到了妖精。”

‘Then you think I tell a lie?’
“那你认为我撒谎了？”

And she laughed a mirthless laugh.
她笑得很不开心。

‘Oh, no, Masha, Konstantin Dmitrievitch said he could not believe in it,’ said Kitty, blushing for Levin, and Levin saw this, and, still more exasperated, would have answered, but Vronsky with his bright frank smile rushed to the support of the conversation, which was threatening to become disagreeable.
“哦，不，玛莎，康斯坦丁·德米特里耶维奇说他无法相信这一点。”基蒂为莱文脸红了，说道，莱文看到了这一点，更加恼火，本来想回答，但渥伦斯基带着他明亮坦率的微笑冲到了房间里。谈话的支持，这有可能变得不愉快。

‘You do not admit the conceivability at all?’ he queried. ‘But why not? We admit the existence of electricity, of which we know nothing. Why should there not be some new force, still unknown to us, which...’
“你根本不承认这种可能性吗？”他问道。 “但是为什么不呢？我们承认电的存在，但我们对此一无所知。为什么不应该有一些我们还不知道的新力量……”

‘When electricity was discovered,’ Levin interrupted hurriedly, ‘it was only the phenomenon that was discovered, and it was unknown from what it proceeded and what were its effects, and ages passed before its applications were conceived. But the spiritualists have begun with tables writing for them, and spirits appearing to them, and have only later started saying that it is an unknown force.’
“当电被发现时，”莱文急忙打断道，“它只是被发现的一种现象，人们不知道它会发生什么、产生什么影响，而且在它的应用被构思出来之前已经过去了很多年。但唯灵论者一开始是用表格为他们书写，灵魂向他们显现，直到后来才开始说这是一种未知的力量。

Vronsky listened attentively to Levin, as he always did listen, obviously interested in his words.
渥伦斯基像往常一样，聚精会神地听着莱文的讲话，显然对他的话很感兴趣。

‘Yes, but the spiritualists say we don’t know at present what this force is, but there is a force, and these are the conditions in which it acts. Let the scientific men find out what the force consists in. No, I don’t see why there should not be a new force, if it...’
“是的，但唯灵论者说，我们目前不知道这种力量是什么，但确实有一种力量，而这就是它发挥作用的条件。让科学家们找出力的组成。不，我不明白为什么不应该有一种新的力，如果它……’

‘Why, because with electricity,’ Levin interrupted again, ‘every time you rub tar against wool, a recognized phenomenon is manifested, but in this case it does not happen every time, and so it follows it is not a natural phenomenon.’
“为什么，因为有了电，”莱文再次打断道，“每次用焦油摩擦羊毛时，就会出现一种公认的现象，但在这种情况下，这种现象并不是每次都会发生，因此它不是一种自然现象。”

Feeling probably that the conversation was taking a tone too serious for a drawing room, Vronsky made no rejoinder, but by way of trying to change the conversation, he smiled brightly, and turned to the ladies.
渥伦斯基可能觉得谈话的语气对于客厅来说太严肃了，所以没有反驳，但为了改变谈话，他露出灿烂的笑容，转向女士们。

‘Do let us try at once, countess,’ he said; but Levin would finish saying what he thought.
“伯爵夫人，我们立刻试试吧，”他说。但莱文会把自己的想法说完。

‘I think,’ he went on, ‘that this attempt of the spiritualists to explain their marvels as some sort of new natural force is most futile. They boldly talk of spiritual force, and then try to subject it to material experiment.’
“我认为，”他继续说道，“唯心论者试图将他们的奇迹解释为某种新的自然力量，这是徒劳的。他们大胆地谈论精神力量，然后尝试将其进行物质实验。

Every one was waiting for him to finish, and he felt it.
每个人都在等他说完，他也感觉到了。

‘And I think you would be a first-rate medium,’ said Countess Nordston; ‘there’s something enthusiastic in you.’
“我认为你会成为一流的媒介，”诺德斯顿伯爵夫人说。 “你身上有一种热情。”

Levin opened his mouth, was about to say something, reddened, and said nothing.
莱文张了张嘴，正要说什么，脸红了，什么也没说。

‘Do let us try table-turning at once, please,’ said Vronsky. ‘Princess, will you allow it?’
“请让我们立即尝试扭转局势，”渥伦斯基说。 “公主，您会允许吗？”

And Vronsky stood up, looking for a little table.
渥伦斯基站了起来，寻找一张小桌子。

Kitty got up to fetch a table, and as she passed, her eyes met Levin’s. She felt for him with her whole heart, the more because she was pitying him for suffering of which she was herself the cause. ‘If you can forgive me, forgive me,’ said her eyes, ‘I am so happy.’
基蒂起身去拿一张桌子，当她经过时，她的目光与莱文的目光相遇了。她全心全意地同情他，尤其是因为她同情他所遭受的痛苦，而她自己正是造成这些痛苦的原因。 “如果你能原谅我，就原谅我吧，”她的眼睛说道，“我很高兴。”

‘I hate them all, and you, and myself,’ his eyes responded, and he took up his hat. But he was not destined to escape. Just as they were arranging themselves round the table, and Levin was on the point of retiring, the old prince came in, and after greeting the ladies, addressed Levin.
“我恨他们所有人，还有你，还有我自己，”他的眼睛回应道，然后他拿起了帽子。但他注定无法逃脱。正当他们围着桌子坐好，莱文正要告退时，老公爵进来了，向女士们打招呼后，对莱文说道。

‘Ah!’ he began joyously. ‘Been here long, my boy? I didn’t even know you were in town. Very glad to see you.’ The old prince embraced Levin, and talking to him did not observe Vronsky, who had risen, and was serenely waiting till the prince should turn to him.
“啊！”他高兴地说道。 “在这里很久了，我的孩子？我什至不知道你在城里。很高兴见到你。”老王子拥抱了列文，和他说话时没有注意到渥伦斯基，后者已经站了起来，静静地等待着王子转向他。

Kitty felt how distasteful her father’s warmth was to Levin after what had happened. She saw, too, how coldly her father responded at last to Vronsky’s bow, and how Vronsky looked with amiable perplexity at her father, as though trying and failing to understand how and why anyone could be hostilely disposed towards him, and she flushed.
事情发生后，基蒂觉得莱文对父亲的热情感到多么反感。她还看到，她的父亲最终对渥伦斯基的鞠躬做出了多么冷淡的反应，也看到了渥伦斯基如何带着和蔼可亲的困惑看着她的父亲，仿佛试图理解为什么有人会对他怀有敌意，但又无法理解，她脸红了。

‘Prince, let us have Konstantin Dmitrievitch,’ said Countess Nordston; ‘we want to try an experiment.’
“王子，请康斯坦丁·德米特里耶维奇来吧。”诺德斯顿伯爵夫人说道。 “我们想尝试一个实验。”

‘What experiment? Table-turning? Well, you must excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, but to my mind it is better fun to play the ring game,’ said the old prince, looking at Vronsky, and guessing that it had been his suggestion. ‘There’s some sense in that, anyway.’
‘什么实验？扭转局面？好吧，请原谅，女士们先生们，但在我看来，玩擂台游戏更有趣。”老王子看着渥伦斯基说道，猜测这是他的建议。 “无论如何，这还是有一定道理的。”

Vronsky looked wonderingly at the prince with his resolute eyes, and, with a faint smile, began immediately talking to Countess Nordston of the great ball that was to come off next week.
渥伦斯基用他坚定的眼睛惊奇地看着王子，然后带着淡淡的微笑，立即开始与诺德斯顿伯爵夫人谈论下周即将举行的盛大舞会。

‘I hope you will be there?’ he said to Kitty. As soon as the old prince turned away from him, Levin went out unnoticed, and the last impression he carried away with him of that evening was the smiling, happy face of Kitty answering Vronsky’s inquiry about the ball.
“我希望你能在那儿？”他对基蒂说。老王子一转身，莱文就悄无声息地走了出去，那天晚上给他留下的最后印象就是基蒂回答渥伦斯基关于舞会的询问时微笑着、幸福的脸。

Chapter 15
第15章

At the end of the evening Kitty told her mother of her conversation with Levin, and in spite of all the pity she felt for Levin, she was glad at the thought that she had received an offer. She had no doubt that she had acted rightly. But after she had gone to bed, for a long while she could not sleep. One impression pursued her relentlessly. It was Levin’s face, with his scowling brows, and his kind eyes looking out in dark dejection below them, as he stood listening to her father, and glancing at her and at Vronsky. And she felt so sorry for him that tears came into her eyes. But immediately she thought of the man for whom she had given him up. She vividly recalled his manly, resolute face, his noble self-possession, and the good nature conspicuous in everything towards everyone. She remembered the love for her of the man she loved, and once more all was gladness in her soul, and she lay on the pillow, smiling with happiness. ‘I’m sorry, I’m sorry; but what could I do? It’s not my fault,’ she said to herself; but an inner voice told her something else. Whether she felt remorse at having won Levin’s love, or at having refused him, she did not know. But her happiness was poisoned by doubts. ‘Lord, have pity on us; Lord, have pity on us; Lord, have pity on us!’ she repeated to herself, till she fell asleep.
晚上结束时，基蒂告诉母亲她与莱文的谈话，尽管她对莱文感到遗憾，但一想到自己收到了一份工作，她就很高兴。她毫不怀疑自己的做法是正确的。但上床睡觉后，她很长一段时间都睡不着。有一种印象无情地追随着她。那是莱文的脸，他皱着眉头，善良的眼睛在下面忧郁地望着外面，他站在那里听着她父亲说话，瞥了她一眼，又看了一眼渥伦斯基。她为他感到非常难过，眼泪夺眶而出。但她立刻就想到了那个她为之放弃的男人。她清楚地记得，他那张有男子气概、刚毅的面容，他那高贵的沉着，以及他对每个人凡事都显露出来的善良本性。她想起了她所爱的男人对她的爱，她的灵魂里再次充满了喜悦，她躺在枕头上，幸福地微笑着。 ‘对不起，对不起；但我能做什么呢？这不是我的错，”她对自己说。但内心的声音告诉她一些别的事情。她不知道她是因为赢得了莱文的爱而感到悔恨，还是因为拒绝了他而感到悔恨。但她的幸福却被怀疑所毒害。 ‘主啊，怜悯我们；主啊，怜悯我们；主啊，可怜我们吧！”她不断地对自己说，直到睡着了。

Meanwhile there took place below, in the prince’s little library, one of the scenes so often repeated between the parents on account of their favorite daughter.
与此同时，在下面王子的小图书馆里，发生了父母之间因为他们最喜欢的女儿而经常重复的场景之一。

‘What? I’ll tell you what!’ shouted the prince, waving his arms, and at once wrapping his squirrel-lined dressing-gown round him again. ‘That you’ve no pride, no dignity; that you’re disgracing, ruining your daughter by this vulgar, stupid match-making!’
'什么？我来告诉你吧！”王子喊道，挥舞着双臂，立刻又把松鼠衬里的晨衣裹在身上。 ‘你没有骄傲，没有尊严；你这种庸俗愚蠢的媒人是在丢脸，毁了你的女儿！

‘But, really, for mercy’s sake, prince, what have I done?’ said the princess, almost crying.
“但是，真的，看在上帝的份上，王子，我做了什么？”公主几乎哭了。

She, pleased and happy after her conversation with her daughter, had gone to the prince to say good-night as usual, and though she had no intention of telling him of Levin’s offer and Kitty’s refusal, still she hinted to her husband that she fancied things were practically settled with Vronsky, and that he would declare himself so soon as his mother arrived. And thereupon, at those words, the prince had all at once flown into a passion, and began to use unseemly language.
和女儿谈话后，她高兴又高兴，像往常一样去王子那里道晚安，虽然她无意告诉他莱文的提议和基蒂的拒绝，但她仍然向她的丈夫暗示她想渥伦斯基的事情实际上已经解决了，只要他母亲一到，他就会宣布自己的决定。于是，听到这句话，王子顿时勃然大怒，开始使用不雅的语言。

‘What have you done? I’ll tell you what. First of all, you’re trying to catch an eligible gentleman, and all Moscow will be talking of it, and with good reason. If you have evening parties, invite everyone, don’t pick out the possible suitors. Invite all the young bucks. Engage a piano player, and let them dance, and not as you do things nowadays, hunting up good matches. It makes me sick, sick to see it, and you’ve gone on till you’ve turned the poor wench’s head. Levin’s a thousand times the better man. As for this little Petersburg swell, they’re turned out by machinery, all on one pattern, and all precious rubbish. But if he were a prince of the blood, my daughter need not run after anyone.’
'你做了什么？我会告诉你什么。首先，你要抓住一位合格的绅士，整个莫斯科都会谈论它，而且有充分的理由。如果你举办晚会，请邀请所有人，不要挑选出可能的追求者。邀请所有的年轻人。聘请一位钢琴演奏家，让他们跳舞，而不是像现在那样，寻找合适的对手。这让我感到恶心，看到它就恶心，而你却一直这样说，直到你把那个可怜的姑娘甩了头。莱文比他好一千倍。至于彼得堡的这个小浪，它们是用机器生产出来的，全是一种模式，而且都是珍贵的垃圾。但如果他是亲王，我女儿就不需要追赶任何人。”

‘But what have I done?’
“但是我做了什么？”

‘Why, you’ve...’ The prince was crying wrathfully.
“为什么，你……”王子愤怒地哭泣着。

‘I know if one were to listen to you,’ interrupted the princess, ‘we should never marry our daughter. If it’s to be so, we’d better go into the country.’
“我知道，如果有人听你的话，”公主打断道，“我们永远不应该娶我们的女儿。如果是这样的话，我们最好到乡下去。

‘Well, and we had better.’
“好吧，我们有更好的。”

‘But do wait a minute. Do I try and catch them? I don’t try to catch them in the least. A young man, and a very nice one, has fallen in love with her, and she, I fancy...’
“但是请等一下。”我要尝试去抓住他们吗？我一点也不想抓住他们。一个年轻人，一个非常好的年轻人，爱上了她，而她，我想……”

‘Oh, yes, you fancy! And how if she really is in love, and he’s no more thinking of marriage than I am!... Oh, that I should live to see it! Ah! spiritualism! Ah! Nice! Ah! the ball!’ And the prince, imagining that he was mimicking his wife, made a mincing curtsey at each word. ‘And this is how we’re preparing wretchedness for Kitty; and she’s really got the notion into her head...’
‘哦，是的，你喜欢！如果她真的恋爱了，而他比我更不考虑结婚，那该多好啊！……哦，但愿我能活着看到这一幕！啊!招魂！啊!好的！啊!球！”王子以为自己是在模仿他的妻子，每说一个字就刻意地行屈膝礼。 “这就是我们为基蒂准备悲惨的方式；她确实把这个想法融入了她的脑海……”

‘But what makes you suppose so?’
“但是你为什么这么认为呢？”

‘I don’t suppose; I know. We have eyes for such things, though women-folk haven’t. I see a man who has serious intentions, that’s Levin: and I see a peacock, like this feather-head, who’s only amusing himself.’
“我不认为；我知道。我们对这些事情有眼睛，但女性却没有。我看到一个有着严肃意图的人，那就是莱文；我看到一只孔雀，就像这只羽毛头，它只是自娱自乐。

‘Oh, well, when once you get an idea into your head!...’
“哦，好吧，一旦你脑子里有了一个想法！……”

‘Well, you’ll remember my words, but too late, just as with Dolly.’
“好吧，你会记住我的话，但为时已晚，就像多莉一样。”

‘Well, well, we won’t talk of it,’ the princess stopped him, recollecting her unlucky Dolly.
“好吧，好吧，我们不谈这个了，”公主阻止了他，想起了她不幸的多莉。

‘By all means, and good night!’
“无论如何，晚安！”

And signing each other with the cross, the husband and wife parted with a kiss, feeling that they each remained of their own opinion.
丈夫和妻子互相在十字架上签名，然后吻别，感觉他们各自都有自己的观点。

The princess had at first been quite certain that that evening had settled Kitty’s future, and that there could be no doubt of Vronsky’s intentions, but her husband’s words had disturbed her. And returning to her own room, in terror before the unknown future, she, too, like Kitty, repeated several times in her heart, ‘Lord, have pity; Lord, have pity; Lord, have pity.’
公主一开始很确定那天晚上已经决定了基蒂的未来，渥伦斯基的意图是毫无疑问的，但她丈夫的话让她感到不安。回到自己的房间，对未知的未来充满恐惧，她也像凯蒂一样，在心里重复了好几遍：“主啊，怜悯吧！”主啊，求你怜悯；主啊，怜悯吧。

Chapter 16
第16章

Vronsky had never had a real home life. His mother had been in her youth a brilliant society woman, who had had during her married life, and still more afterwards, many love affairs notorious in the whole fashionable world. His father he scarcely remembered, and he had been educated in the Corps of Pages.
渥伦斯基从未有过真正的家庭生活。他的母亲年轻时曾是一位才华横溢的社交名媛，在婚后以及婚后曾有过许多在整个时尚界臭名昭著的风流韵事。他几乎不记得他的父亲了，而且他曾在侍从军团受过教育。

Leaving the school very young as a brilliant officer, he had at once got into the circle of wealthy Petersburg army men. Although he did go more or less into Petersburg society, his love affairs had always hitherto been outside it.
作为一名出色的军官，他很年轻就离开了学校，很快就进入了富有的彼得堡军人圈子。尽管他或多或少地融入了彼得堡的上流社会，但他的爱情故事迄今为止一直在外面。

In Moscow he had for the first time felt, after his luxurious and coarse life at Petersburg, all the charm of intimacy with a sweet and innocent girl of his own rank, who cared for him. It never even entered his head that there could be any harm in his relations with Kitty. At balls he danced principally with her. He was a constant visitor at their house. He talked to her as people commonly do talk in society—all sorts of nonsense, but nonsense to which he could not help attaching a special meaning in her case. Although he said nothing to her that he could not have said before everybody, he felt that she was becoming more and more dependent upon him, and the more he felt this, the better he liked it, and the tenderer was his feeling for her. He did not know that his mode of behavior in relation to Kitty had a definite character, that it is courting young girls with no intention of marriage, and that such courting is one of the evil actions common among brilliant young men such as he was. It seemed to him that he was the first who had discovered this pleasure, and he was enjoying his discovery.
在彼得堡经历了奢华而粗俗的生活之后，在莫斯科，他第一次感受到了与一个与他同等级、关心他的甜美天真女孩的亲密魅力。他从来没有想到他和基蒂的关系可能会受到任何伤害。在舞会上他主要和她一起跳舞。他是他们家的常客。他跟她说话的方式就像人们在社会上常见的谈话方式一样——各种废话，但他情不自禁地在她的案例中赋予了特殊的含义。虽然他没有对她说一些不能在众人面前说的话，但他感觉她对他越来越依赖，而且越是这样，他就越喜欢，对她的感情也就越温柔。他并不知道，他对凯蒂的行为方式有一定的性质，那就是追求没有结婚意图的年轻女孩，而这种追求是像他这样的才华横溢的年轻人中常见的邪恶行为之一。在他看来，他是第一个发现这种乐趣的人，而且他正在享受他的发现。

If he could have heard what her parents were saying that evening, if he could have put himself at the point ov view of the family and have heard that Kitty would be unhappy if he did not marry her, he would have been greatly astonished, and would not have believed it. He could not believe that what gave such great and delicate pleasure to him, and above all to her, could be wrong. Still less could he have believed that he ought to marry.
如果他能听到她父母那天晚上说的话，如果他能站在家人的立场上，听到如果他不娶她，凯蒂就会不高兴，他一定会大吃一惊。我不会相信的。他无法相信给他，尤其是给她带来如此巨大而微妙的快乐的东西可能是错误的。他更不可能相信自己应该结婚。

Marriage had never presented itself to him as a possibility. He not only disliked family life, but a family, and especially a husband was, in accordance with the views general in the bachelor world in which he lived, conceived as something alien, repellant, and, above all, ridiculous.
他从来没有想过结婚。他不仅不喜欢家庭生活，而且按照他所生活的单身汉世界的普遍观点，家庭，尤其是丈夫，被认为是陌生的、令人厌恶的，最重要的是，是可笑的。

But though Vronsky had not the least suspicion what the parents were saying, he felt on coming away from the Shtcherbatskys’ that the secret spiritual bond which existed between him and Kitty had grown so much stronger that evening that some step must be taken. But what step could and ought to be taken he could not imagine.
尽管渥伦斯基对父母所说的话没有丝毫怀疑，但离开谢尔巴茨基一家后，他感到他和基蒂之间存在的秘密精神纽带那天晚上变得如此牢固，必须采取一些措施。但他无法想象可以而且应该采取什么步骤。

‘What is so exquisite,’ he thought, as he returned from the Shtcherbatskys’, carrying away with him, as he always did, a delicious feeling of purity and freshness, arising partly from the fact that he had not been smoking for a whole evening, and with it a new feeling of tenderness at her love for him—‘what is so exquisite is that not a word has been said by me or by her, but we understand each other so well in this unseen language of looks and tones, that this evening more clearly than ever she told me she loves me. And how secretly, simply, and most of all, how trustfully! I feel myself better, purer. I feel that I have a heart, and that there is a great deal of good in me. Those sweet, loving eyes! When she said: Indeed I do...’
当他从谢尔巴茨基家回来时，他想：“有什么如此精致”，他像往常一样，带着一种纯洁和清新的美妙感觉，部分原因是他一直没有抽烟。晚上，她对他的爱产生了一种新的温柔感——“奇妙的是，我和她都没有说过一句话，但我们在这种看不见的语言、眼神和语气中彼此了解得如此清楚” ，今晚她比以往任何时候都更清楚地告诉我她爱我。多么秘密、简单，最重要的是，多么值得信赖！我感觉自己更好了，更纯洁了。我觉得我有一颗心，我里面有很多美好的东西。那双可爱又充满爱意的眼睛！当她说：我确实……”

‘Well, what then? Oh, nothing. It’s good for me, and good for her.’ And he began wondering where to finish the evening.
‘那么，然后呢？哦，没什么。这对我有好处，对她也有好处。”他开始思考晚上该在哪里结束。

He passed in review of the places he might go to. ‘Club? a game of bezique, champagne with Ignatov? No, I’m not going. Chateau des Fleurs; there I shall find Oblonsky, songs, the cancan. No, I’m sick of it. That’s why I like the Shtcherbatskys’, that I’m growing better. I’ll go home.’ He went straight to his room at Dussot’s Hotel, ordered supper, and then undressed, and as soon as his head touched the pillow, fell into a sound sleep.
他通过了对他可能去的地方的审查。 '俱乐部？和伊格纳托夫一起玩贝齐克、香槟？不，我不去。鲜花城堡；在那里我会找到奥布朗斯基、歌曲、康康舞。不，我厌倦了。这就是为什么我喜欢谢尔巴茨基一家，因为我成长得更好了。我要回家了。”他径直走进杜索旅馆的房间，点了晚饭，然后脱掉衣服，头一碰到枕头就沉沉睡去。

Chapter 17
第17章

Next day at eleven o’clock in the morning Vronsky drove to the station of the Petersburg railway to meet his mother, and the first person he came across on the great flight of steps was Oblonsky, who was expecting his sister by the same train.
第二天早上十一点，渥伦斯基开车到彼得堡火车站去见他的母亲，他在巨大的台阶上遇到的第一个人就是奥布朗斯基，他正在同一辆火车上等他的妹妹。

‘Ah! your excellency!’ cried Oblonsky, ‘whom are you meeting?’
'啊！ “大人！”奥布朗斯基喊道，“您要见谁？”

‘My mother,’ Vronsky responded, smiling, as everyone did who met Oblonsky. He shook hands with him, and together they ascended the steps. ‘She is to be here from Petersburg today.’
“我的母亲，”渥伦斯基微笑着回答，就像每个见到奥布朗斯基的人一样。他与他握手，然后一起走上台阶。 “她今天将从彼得堡来到这里。”

‘I was looking out for you till two o’clock last night. Where did you go after the Shtcherbatskys’?’
“昨晚我一直在等你直到两点。谢尔巴茨基一家之后你去了哪里？

‘Home,’ answered Vronsky. ‘I must own I felt so well content yesterday after the Shtcherbatskys’ that I didn’t care to go anywhere.’
“回家。”渥伦斯基回答。 “我必须承认，昨天在谢尔巴茨基夫妇之后我感到非常满足，以至于我不想去任何地方。”

“I know a gallant steed by tokens sure,
“我确实知道一匹英勇的骏马，

And by his eyes I know a youth in love,’
通过他的眼睛，我认识了一个恋爱中的年轻人，”

declaimed Stepan Arkadyevitch, just as he had done before to Levin.
斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇大声说道，就像他以前对列文所做的那样。

Vronsky smiled with a look that seemed to say that he did not deny it, but he promptly changed the subject.
渥伦斯基笑了笑，看上去似乎没有否认，但他很快就转移了话题。

‘And whom are you meeting?’ he asked.
“你要见谁？”他问道。

‘I? I’ve come to meet a pretty woman,’ said Oblonsky.
'我？我是来见一位漂亮女人的。”奥布朗斯基说道。

‘You don’t say so!’
“你不这么说！”

‘Honi soit qui mal y pense! My sister Anna.’
“Honi soit qui mal y pense！”我的妹妹安娜。”

‘Ah! that’s Madame Karenina,’ said Vronsky.
'啊！那是卡列尼娜夫人，”渥伦斯基说。

‘You know her, no doubt?’
“你肯定认识她吧？”

‘I think I do. Or perhaps not...I really am not sure,’ Vronsky answered heedlessly, with a vague recollection of something stiff and tedious evoked by the name Karenina.
'我想我是这样的。或者也许不是……我真的不确定。”渥伦斯基漫不经心地回答道，他隐约记得卡列尼娜这个名字会让人想起一些僵硬而乏味的东西。

‘But Alexey Alexandrovitch, my celebrated brother-in-law, you surely must know. All the world knows him.’
“但是阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇，我著名的姐夫，你肯定知道。全世界都认识他。

‘I know him by reputation and by sight. I know that he’s clever, learned, religious somewhat.... But you know that’s not...not in my line,’ said Vronsky in English.
“我通过名声和目光认识他。我知道他很聪明，有学问，有点虔诚……但你知道这不……不符合我的风格，”渥伦斯基用英语说道。

‘Yes, he’s a very remarkable man; rather a conservative, but a splendid man,’ observed Stepan Arkadyevitch, ‘a splendid man.’
“是的，他是一个非常了不起的人；斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇评论道，“他是一个保守派，但却是一个出色的人，一个出色的人。”

‘Oh, well, so much the better for him,’ said Vronsky smiling. ‘Oh, you’ve come,’ he said, addressing a tall old footman of his mother’s, standing at the door; ‘come here.’
“哦，好吧，这对他来说更好了，”渥伦斯基微笑着说道。 “哦，你来了，”他对站在门口的他母亲的一位高个子老男仆说道。 '过来。'

Besides the charm Oblonsky had in general for everyone, Vronsky had felt of late specially drawn to him by the fact that in his imagination he was associated with Kitty.
除了奥布朗斯基对每个人都具有普遍的魅力之外，渥伦斯基最近还觉得他特别被他吸引，因为在他的想象中，他与基蒂有关。

‘Well, what do you say? Shall we give a supper on Sunday for the diva?’ he said to him with a smile, taking his arm.
‘嗯，你说什么？我们周日要为这位女主角举办晚宴吗？”他挽着他的手臂，微笑着对他说道。

‘Of course. I’m collecting subscriptions. Oh, did you make the acquaintance of my friend Levin?’ asked Stepan Arkadyevitch.
'当然。我正在收集订阅。噢，你认识我的朋友列文吗？”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇问道。

‘Yes; but he left rather early.’
'是的;但他离开得相当早。

‘He’s a capital fellow,’ pursued Oblonsky. ‘Isn’t he?’
“他是个了不起的家伙，”奥布朗斯基继续说道。 “不是吗？”

‘I don’t know why it is,’ responded Vronsky, ‘in all Moscow people—present company of course excepted,’ he put in jestingly, ‘there’s something uncompromising. They are all on the defensive, lose their tempers, as though they all want to make one feel something...’
“我不知道为什么会这样，”渥伦斯基回答道，“所有莫斯科人——当然在场的人除外，”他开玩笑地插话道，“都有一种不妥协的东西。”他们都处于防守状态，发脾气，好像都想让人感受到什么……’

‘Yes, that’s true, it is so,’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch, laughing good-humoredly.
“是的，确实如此，确实如此，”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇幽默地笑道。

‘Will the train soon be in?’ Vronsky asked a railway official.
“火车很快就会进站吗？”渥伦斯基问铁路官员。

‘The train’s signaled,’ answered the man.
“火车发出信号了。”那人回答道。

The approach of the train was more and more evident by the preparatory bustle in the station, the rush of porters, the movement of policemen and attendants, and people meeting the train. Through the frosty vapor could be seen workmen in short sheepskins and soft felt boots crossing the rails of the curving line. The hiss of the boiler could be heard on the distant rails, and the rumble of something heavy.
车站里忙碌的准备工作、搬运工的忙碌、警察和乘务员的走动，以及迎接火车的人们，都越来越明显地表明了火车的临近。透过冰冷的雾气，可以看到穿着短羊皮和软毡靴的工人正在穿过弯曲线的铁轨。远处的铁轨上传来锅炉的嘶嘶声，以及某个重物的隆隆声。

‘No,’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch, who felt a great inclination to tell Vronsky of Levin’s intentions in regard to Kitty. ‘No, you’ve not got a true impression of Levin. He’s a very nervous man, and is sometimes out of humor, it’s true, but then he is often very nice. He’s such a true, honest nature, and a heart of gold. But yesterday there were special reasons,’ pursued Stepan Arkadyevitch, with a meaning smile, totally oblivious of the genuine sympathy he had felt the day before for his friend, and feeling the same sympathy now, only for Vronsky. ‘Yes, there were reasons why he could not help being either particularly happy or particularly unhappy.’
“不，”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇说，他很想告诉渥伦斯基列文对基蒂的意图。 “不，你对莱文没有真正的印象。他是一个非常紧张的人，有时缺乏幽默感，这是事实，但他常常很友善。他是一个如此真实、诚实的人，还有一颗金子般的心。但是昨天有一些特殊的原因，”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇带着意味深长的微笑继续说道，完全忘记了他前一天对他的朋友所表达的真诚的同情，而现在却对渥伦斯基产生了同样的同情。 “是的，他情不自禁地特别高兴或者特别不高兴是有原因的。”

Vronsky stood still and asked directly: ‘How so? Do you mean he made your belle-soeur an offer yesterday?’
渥伦斯基站定了，直接问道：“怎么会？”你是说他昨天向你的美女提出了要约吗？

‘Maybe,’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch. ‘I fancied something of the sort yesterday. Yes, if he went away early, and was out of humor too, it must mean it.... He’s been so long in love, and I’m very sorry for him.’
“也许吧，”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇说。 “昨天我就想到了类似的事情。是的，如果他早早离开，而且也没有幽默感，那一定是这样的……他恋爱了这么久，我很为他感到难过。”

‘So that’s it! I should imagine, though, she might reckon on a better match,’ said Vronsky, drawing himself up and walking about again, ‘though I don’t know him, of course,’ he added. ‘Yes, that is a hateful position! That’s why most fellows prefer to have to do with Klaras. If you don’t succeed with them it only proves that you’ve not enough cash, but in this case one’s dignity’s at stake. But here’s the train.’
'就是这样了！不过，我想，她可能会认为有更好的对象，”渥伦斯基说着，站起身来，再次走来走去，“当然，我不认识他，”他补充道。 ‘是的，这是一个可恶的立场！这就是为什么大多数人更喜欢和克拉拉斯打交道。如果你没有成功，只能证明你没有足够的现金，但在这种情况下，一个人的尊严受到威胁。但这是火车。”

The engine had already whistled in the distance. A few instants later the platform was quivering, and with puffs of steam hanging low in the air from the frost, the engine rolled up, with the lever of the middle wheel rhythmically moving up and down, and the stooping figure of the engine-driver covered with frost. Behind the tender, setting the platform more and more slowly swaying, came the luggage van with a dog whining in it. At last the passenger carriages rolled in, oscillating before coming to a standstill.
远处，发动机已经发出呼啸声。过了一会儿，平台开始颤抖，一阵阵蒸汽从霜中低垂在空中，发动机滚了起来，中轮的操纵杆有节奏地上下移动，发动机驾驶员弯着腰的身影覆盖着霜。在补给车后面，随着平台越来越缓慢地摇晃，行李车开过来了，里面有一只狗在哀嚎。最后，客车开进了，摇摇晃晃，最后才停了下来。

A smart guard jumped out, giving a whistle, and after him one by one the impatient passengers began to get down: an officer of the guards, holding himself erect, and looking severely about him; a nimble little merchant with a satchel, smiling gaily; a peasant with a sack over his shoulder.
一个聪明的警卫跳了出来，吹了一声口哨，在他身后，那些不耐烦的乘客开始一一下车：一名警卫军官，挺直身子，严厉地环顾四周；一名警卫，站直了身子，严肃地环顾四周；一名警卫，站直了身子，严肃地环顾四周；一名警卫，站着身子，严肃地环顾四周；一名警卫，站着身子，严肃地环顾四周；一名警卫，站着身子，严厉地环顾四周。一个背着书包、笑容满面的敏捷小商人；肩上扛着麻袋的农民

Vronsky, standing beside Oblonsky, watched the carriages and the passengers, totally oblivious of his mother. What he had just heard about Kitty excited and delighted him. Unconsciously he arched his chest, and his eyes flashed. He felt himself a conqueror.
渥伦斯基站在奥布朗斯基旁边，看着车厢和乘客，完全没有注意到他的母亲。他刚刚听到的关于基蒂的事情让他兴奋又高兴。他不自觉地拱起胸口，目光闪烁。他觉得自己是一个征服者。

‘Countess Vronskaya is in that compartment,’ said the smart guard, going up to Vronsky.
“渥伦斯卡娅伯爵夫人就在那个隔间里。”聪明的卫兵走到渥伦斯基面前说道。

The guard’s words roused him, and forced him to think of his mother and his approaching meeting with her. He did not in his heart respect his mother, and without acknowledging it to himself, he did not love her, though in accordance with the ideas of the set in which he lived, and with his own education, he could not have conceived of any behavior to his mother not in the highest degree respectful and obedient, and the more externally obedient and respectful his behavior, the less in his heart he respected and loved her.
警卫的话唤醒了他，迫使他想起了他的母亲以及即将与她见面的事。他心里并不尊重他的母亲，而且他自己也不承认，他也不爱她，尽管按照他所生活的环境和他自己所受的教育，他不可能想象出任何爱她的人。他对母亲的行为没有达到最高程度的尊重和顺从，而他的行为越是表面上的顺从和尊重，他的内心就越不尊重和爱她。

Chapter 18
第18章

Vronsky followed the guard to the carriage, and at the door of the compartment he stopped short to make room for a lady who was getting out.
渥伦斯基跟着卫兵来到马车前，在车厢门口停下来，为一位下车的女士腾出地方。

With the insight of a man of the world, from one glance at this lady’s appearance Vronsky classified her as belonging to the best society. He begged pardon, and was getting into the carriage, but felt he must glance at her once more; not that she was very beautiful, not on account of the elegance and modest grace which were apparent in her whole figure, but because in the expression of her charming face, as she passed close by him, there was something peculiarly caressing and soft. As he looked round, she too turned her head. Her shining gray eyes, that looked dark from the thick lashes, rested with friendly attention on his face, as though she were recognizing him, and then promptly turned away to the passing crowd, as though seeking someone. In that brief look Vronsky had time to notice the suppressed eagerness which played over her face, and flitted between the brilliant eyes and the faint smile that curved her red lips. It was as though her nature were so brimming over with something that against her will it showed itself now in the flash of her eyes, and now in her smile. Deliberately she shrouded the light in her eyes, but it shone against her will in the faintly perceptible smile.
以男人的见识，渥伦斯基一看这位女士的容貌，就认定她属于上流社会。他请求原谅，正要上马车，但觉得必须再看她一眼。倒不是说她长得很漂亮，不是因为她整个身段透出的优雅和端庄，而是因为当她从他身边走过时，那张迷人的脸庞上流露出一种特别的爱抚和温柔。当他环顾四周时，她也转过头。她那双闪闪发亮的灰色眼睛，在浓密的睫毛下显得很黑，友好地注视着他的脸，仿佛她正在认出他，然后迅速转向过往的人群，仿佛在寻找什么人。在那短暂的一瞥中，渥伦斯基有时间注意到她脸上压抑的渴望，在明亮的眼睛和红唇上浅浅的微笑之间掠过。就好像她的本性里充满了某种东西，违背她的意愿，它时而在她的眼神中闪烁，时而在她的微笑中显现出来。她刻意地遮住了眼中的光芒，但那抹若隐若现的笑容却违背了她的意愿。

Vronsky stepped into the carriage. His mother, a dried-up old lady with black eyes and ringlets, screwed up her eyes, scanning her son, and smiled slightly with her thin lips. Getting up from the seat and handing her maid a bag, she gave her little wrinkled hand to her son to kiss, and lifting his head from her hand, kissed him on the cheek.
渥伦斯基走进马车。他的母亲是一位干枯的老太太，黑眼睛，留着卷发，眯着眼睛，扫视着儿子，薄唇微微一笑。她从座位上站起来，递给女仆一个袋子，然后把布满皱纹的小手交给儿子亲吻，然后从她手中抬起儿子的头，亲吻他的脸颊。

‘You got my telegram? Quite well? Thank God.’
“你收到我的电报了吗？很好？感谢上帝。'

‘You had a good journey?’ said her son, sitting down beside her, and involuntarily listening to a woman’s voice outside the door. He knew it was the voice of the lady he had met at the door.
“一路顺风吧？”儿子在她身边坐下，不由自主地听着门外女人的声音。他知道这是他在门口遇到的那位女士的声音。

‘All the same I don’t agree with you,’ said the lady’s voice.
“尽管如此，我还是不同意你的观点，”那位女士的声音说道。

‘It’s the Petersburg view, madame.’
“这是彼得堡的景色，女士。”

‘Not Petersburg, but simply feminine,’ she responded.
“不是彼得堡，只是女性化，”她回答道。

‘Well, well, allow me to kiss your hand.’
“好吧，好吧，请允许我亲吻你的手。”

‘Good-bye, Ivan Petrovitch. And could you see if my brother is here, and send him to me?’ said the lady in the doorway, and stepped back again into the compartment.
“再见，伊凡·彼得罗维奇。你能看看我的兄弟是否在这里，把他送到我这里来吗？”门口的那位女士说道，然后又退回了车厢。

‘Well, have you found your brother?’ said Countess Vronskaya, addressing the lady.
“那么，你找到你的兄弟了吗？”渥伦斯卡娅伯爵夫人对那位女士说道。

Vronsky understood now that this was Madame Karenina.
渥伦斯基现在明白了，这就是卡列尼娜夫人。

‘Your brother is here,’ he said, standing up. ‘Excuse me, I did not know you, and, indeed, our acquaintance was so slight,’ said Vronsky, bowing, ‘that no doubt you do not remember me.’
“你哥哥在这里，”他站起来说道。 “对不起，我不认识你，事实上，我们的交情还很浅，”渥伦斯基鞠了一躬，“毫无疑问你不记得我了。”

‘Oh, no,’ said she, ‘I should have known you because your mother and I have been talking, I think, of nothing but you all the way.’ As she spoke she let the eagerness that would insist on coming out show itself in her smile. ‘And still no sign of my brother.’
“哦，不，”她说，“我应该认识你的，因为我想，你母亲和我一直在谈论的只是你。”当她说话时，她流露出坚持要出来的渴望。她的微笑本身。 “但仍然没有我哥哥的踪影。”

‘Do call him, Alexey,’ said the old countess. Vronsky stepped out onto the platform and shouted:
“一定要叫他，阿列克谢，”老伯爵夫人说道。渥伦斯基走上讲台，大声喊道：

‘Oblonsky! Here!’
‘奥布朗斯基！这里！'

Madame Karenina, however, did not wait for her brother, but catching sight of him she stepped out with her light, resolute step. And as soon as her brother had reached her, with a gesture that struck Vronsky by its decision and its grace, she flung her left arm around his neck, drew him rapidly to her, and kissed him warmly. Vronsky gazed, never taking his eyes from her, and smiled, he could not have said why. But recollecting that his mother was waiting for him, he went back again into the carriage.
然而卡列尼娜夫人并没有等弟弟，而是迈着轻快而坚决的步伐走了出去。当她哥哥走到她身边时，她用左臂搂住他的脖子，迅速把他拉向自己，并热烈地吻了他，这一举动令渥伦斯基感到震惊。渥伦斯基凝视着她，眼睛始终没有离开过她，微笑着，他也说不出为什么。但想起母亲正在等他，他又回到马车里。

‘She’s very sweet, isn’t she?’ said the countess of Madame Karenina. ‘Her husband put her with me, and I was delighted to have her. We’ve been talking all the way. And so you, I hear...vous filez le parfait amour. Tant mieux, mon cher, tant mieux.’
“她很可爱，不是吗？”卡列尼娜夫人的伯爵夫人说。 “她的丈夫让她和我在一起，我很高兴能拥有她。我们一路上都在说话。所以我听说你……你的爱情冻糕。 Tant mieux，mon cher，tant mieux。

‘I don’t know what you are referring to, maman,’ he answered coldly. ‘Come, maman, let us go.’
“我不知道你指的是什么，妈妈，”他冷冷地回答。 “来吧，妈妈，我们走吧。”

Madame Karenina entered the carriage again to say good-bye to the countess.
卡列尼娜夫人再次登上马车，向伯爵夫人告别。

‘Well, countess, you have met your son, and I my brother,’ she said. ‘And all my gossip is exhausted. I should have nothing more to tell you.’
“好吧，伯爵夫人，你见到了你的儿子，我也见到了我的兄弟，”她说。 ‘我所有的闲言碎语都已经耗尽了。我没什么可告诉你的了。

‘Oh, no,’ said the countess, taking her hand. ‘I could go all around the world with you and never be dull. You are one of those delightful women in whose company it’s sweet to be silent as well as to talk. Now please don’t fret over your son; you can’t expect never to be parted.’
“哦，不，”伯爵夫人握住她的手说道。 “我可以和你一起环游世界，永远不会感到无聊。你是那些令人愉快的女性之一，在她们的陪伴下，沉默和说话都是甜蜜的。现在请不要为你的儿子担心；你不能指望永远不会分开。

Madame Karenina stood quite still, holding herself very erect, and her eyes were smiling.
卡列尼娜夫人一动不动地站着，笔直地站着，眼睛里含着微笑。

‘Anna Arkadyevna,’ the countess said in explanation to her son, ‘has a little son eight years old, I believe, and she has never been parted from him before, and she keeps fretting over leaving him.’
“安娜·阿尔卡季耶夫娜，”伯爵夫人向她的儿子解释道，“我相信她有一个八岁的小儿子，她以前从未与他分开过，而且她一直为离开他而烦恼。”

‘Yes, the countess and I have been talking all the time, I of my son and she of hers,’ said Madame Karenina, and again a smile lighted up her face, a caressing smile intended for him.
“是的，伯爵夫人和我一直在说话，我谈论我的儿子，她谈论她的儿子。”卡列尼娜夫人说，脸上再次绽放出微笑，这是一种爱抚的微笑，是为他准备的。

‘I am afraid that you must have been dreadfully bored,’ he said, promptly catching the ball of coquetry she had flung him. But apparently she did not care to pursue the conversation in that strain, and she turned to the old countess.
“我担心你一定非常无聊，”他说，立即接住了她扔给他的撒娇球。但显然她并不想以这种紧张的气氛继续谈话，她转向了老伯爵夫人。

‘Thank you so much. The time has passed so quickly. Good-bye, countess.’
'太感谢了。时间过得真快。再见，伯爵夫人。

‘Good-bye, my love,’ answered the countess. ‘Let me have a kiss of your pretty face. I speak plainly, at my age, and I tell you simply that I’ve lost my heart to you.’
“再见，我的爱人，”伯爵夫人回答道。 “让我亲吻你美丽的脸庞。在我这个年纪，我直言不讳，我只是简单地告诉你，我已经失去了你的心。

Stereotyped as the phrase was, Madame Karenina obviously believed it and was delighted by it. She flushed, bent down slightly, and put her cheek to the countess’s lips, drew herself up again, and with the same smile fluttering between her lips and her eyes, she gave her hand to Vronsky. He pressed the little hand she gave him, and was delighted, as though at something special, by the energetic squeeze with which she freely and vigorously shook his hand. She went out with the rapid step which bore her rather fully-developed figure with such strange lightness.
尽管这句话千篇一律，但卡列尼娜夫人显然相信它，并为此感到高兴。她涨红了脸，微微弯下腰，把脸颊贴在伯爵夫人的嘴唇上，又挺直身子，嘴唇和眼睛之间闪烁着同样的微笑，她把手伸给渥伦斯基。他握住她递给他的小手，并为她自由而有力地握着他的手而充满活力的握力感到高兴，好像在做什么特别的事情。她迈着急促的步伐走出去，使她相当发达的身材显得如此奇怪的轻盈。

‘Very charming,’ said the countess.
“非常迷人，”伯爵夫人说。

That was just what her son was thinking. His eyes followed her till her graceful figure was out of sight, and then the smile remained on his face. He saw out of the window how she went up to her brother, put her arm in his, and began telling him something eagerly, obviously something that had nothing to do with him, Vronsky, and at that he felt annoyed.
这正是她儿子的想法。他的目光一直追随着她，直到看不见她曼妙的身影，脸上才残留着笑容。他从窗外看到她如何走向她哥哥，把手臂放在他的手臂上，开始热切地告诉他一些事情，显然是一些与他无关的事情，渥伦斯基，对此他感到很恼火。

‘Well, maman, are you perfectly well?’ he repeated, turning to his mother.
“嗯，妈妈，你还好吗？”他转向母亲重复道。

‘Everything has been delightful. Alexander has been very good, and Marie has grown very pretty. She’s very interesting.’
‘一切都令人愉快。亚历山大一直很好，玛丽也长得非常漂亮。她很有趣。

And she began telling him again of what interested her most—the christening of her grandson, for which she had been staying in Petersburg, and the special favor shown her elder son by the Tsar.
她又开始告诉他她最感兴趣的事情——她一直留在彼得堡的孙子的洗礼，以及沙皇对她大儿子的特殊照顾。

‘Here’s Lavrenty,’ said Vronsky, looking out of the window; ‘now we can go, if you like.’
“这是拉夫连季，”渥伦斯基看着窗外说道。 “现在我们可以走了，如果你愿意的话。”

The old butler who had traveled with the countess, came to the carriage to announce that everything was ready, and the countess got up to go.
和伯爵夫人同行的老管家来到马车前宣布一切准备就绪，伯爵夫人起身要走。

‘Come; there’s not such a crowd now,’ said Vronsky.
'来;现在没有那么多人了，”渥伦斯基说。

The maid took a handbag and the lap dog, the butler and a porter the other baggage. Vronsky gave his mother his arm; but just as they were getting out of the carriage several men ran suddenly by with panic-stricken faces. The station-master, too, ran by in his extraordinary colored cap. Obviously something unusual had happened. The crowd who had left the train were running back again.
女仆拿了一个手提包和哈巴狗，管家和搬运工拿了其他行李。渥伦斯基把他的手臂交给了母亲。可就在他们下了马车的时候，几个男人突然跑了过来，一脸惊慌。站长也戴着他那顶颜色奇特的帽子跑过。显然发生了一些不寻常的事情。下了火车的人群又跑回来了。

‘What?... What?... Where?... Flung himself!... Crushed!...’ was heard among the crowd. Stepan Arkadyevitch, with his sister on his arm, turned back. They too looked scared, and stopped at the carriage door to avoid the crowd.
“什么？……什么？……哪里？……扑倒！……摔碎了！……”人群中传来了声音。斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇挽着妹妹转过身来。他们也一脸惊恐，停在车厢门口，避开人群。

The ladies got in, while Vronsky and Stepan Arkadyevitch followed the crowd to find out details of the disaster.
女士们上了车，渥伦斯基和斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇则跟随人群去了解这场灾难的细节。

A guard, either drunk or too much muffled up in the bitter frost, had not heard the train moving back, and had been crushed.
一名警卫要么喝醉了，要么在严寒中闷闷不乐，没有听到火车开回来的声音，就被压垮了。

Before Vronsky and Oblonsky came back the ladies heard the facts from the butler.
在渥伦斯基和奥布朗斯基回来之前，女士们从管家那里听到了事实。

Oblonsky and Vronsky had both seen the mutilated corpse. Oblonsky was evidently upset. He frowned and seemed ready to cry.
奥布隆斯基和渥伦斯基都看到了那具残缺不全的尸体。奥布朗斯基显然很沮丧。他皱起眉头，似乎快要哭了。

‘Ah, how awful! Ah, Anna, if you had seen it! Ah, how awful!’ he said.
‘啊，多糟糕啊！啊，安娜，如果你看到了就好了！啊，太糟糕了！”他说。

Vronsky did not speak; his handsome face was serious, but perfectly composed.
渥伦斯基没有说话。他英俊的脸上表情严肃，但又十分镇定。

‘Oh, if you had seen it, countess,’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch. ‘And his wife was there.... It was awful to see her!.... She flung herself on the body. They say he was the only support of an immense family. How awful!’
“噢，伯爵夫人，要是你看到了就好了，”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇说。 “他的妻子就在那里……看到她真是太可怕了！……她扑倒在尸体上。他们说他是一个大家庭的唯一支柱。真可怕！'

‘Couldn’t one do anything for her?’ said Madame Karenina in an agitated whisper.
“就不能为她做点什么吗？”卡列尼娜夫人焦急地低声说道。

Vronsky glanced at her, and immediately got out of the carriage.
渥伦斯基看了她一眼，立即下了马车。

‘I’ll be back directly, maman,’ he remarked, turning round in the doorway.
“我会直接回来，妈妈，”他在门口转身说道。

When he came back a few minutes later, Stepan Arkadyevitch was already in conversation with the countess about the new singer, while the countess was impatiently looking towards the door, waiting for her son.
几分钟后，当他回来时，斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇已经在和伯爵夫人谈论新歌手的事情，而伯爵夫人则不耐烦地朝门口望去，等待着她的儿子。

‘Now let us be off,’ said Vronsky, coming in. They went out together. Vronsky was in front with his mother. Behind walked Madame Karenina with her brother. Just as they were going out of the station the station-master overtook Vronsky.
“现在我们出发吧，”渥伦斯基进来说道。他们一起出去了。渥伦斯基和他的母亲坐在前面。卡列尼娜夫人和她的兄弟走在后面。正当他们要出车站时，站长追上了渥伦斯基。

‘You gave my assistant two hundred roubles. Would you kindly explain for whose benefit you intend them?’
“你给了我的助手两百卢布。您能解释一下您是为了谁的利益吗？

‘For the widow,’ said Vronsky, shrugging his shoulders. ‘I should have thought there was no need to ask.’
“为了寡妇，”渥伦斯基耸耸肩说道。 “我本以为没有必要问。”

‘You gave that?’ cried Oblonsky, behind, and, pressing his sister’s hand, he added: ‘Very nice, very nice! Isn’t he a splendid fellow? Good-bye, countess.’
“这是你给的？”奥布隆斯基在后面喊道，他握着妹妹的手，补充道：“非常好，非常好！他不是一个很棒的人吗？再见，伯爵夫人。

And he and his sister stood still, looking for her maid.
他和他的妹妹站着不动，寻找她的女仆。

When they went out the Vronsky’s carriage had already driven away. People coming in were still talking of what happened.
他们出去的时候，渥伦斯基的马车已经开走了。进来的人还在谈论发生的事情。

‘What a horrible death!’ said a gentleman, passing by. ‘They say he was cut in two pieces.’
“多么可怕的死亡啊！”一位路过的绅士说道。 “他们说他被切成两半。”

‘On the contrary, I think it’s the easiest—instantaneous,’ observed another.
“相反，我认为这是最简单的——即时的，”另一位评论道。

‘How is it they don’t take proper precautions?’ said a third.
“他们怎么没有采取适当的预防措施呢？”第三个人说道。

Madame Karenina seated herself in the carriage, and Stepan Arkadyevitch saw with surprise that her lips were quivering, and she was with difficulty restraining her tears.
卡列尼娜夫人在马车上坐下，斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇惊讶地发现她的嘴唇在颤抖，她难以抑制自己的泪水。

‘What is it, Anna?’ he asked, when they had driven a few hundred yards.
“什么事，安娜？”他们开了几百码后，他问道。

‘It’s an omen of evil,’ she said.
“这是邪恶的预兆，”她说。

‘What nonsense!’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch. ‘You’ve come, that’s the chief thing. You can’t conceive how I’m resting my hopes on you.’
“胡说八道！”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇说。 ‘你来了，这才是最重要的。你无法想象我如何把希望寄托在你身上。

‘Have you known Vronsky long?’ she asked.
“你认识渥伦斯基很久了吗？”她问。

‘Yes. You know we’re hoping he will marry Kitty.’
'是的。你知道我们希望他能娶基蒂。

‘Yes?’ said Anna softly. ‘Come now, let us talk of you,’ she added, tossing her head, as though she would physically shake off something superfluous oppressing her. ‘Let us talk of your affairs. I got your letter, and here I am.’
“是吗？”安娜轻声说道。 “来吧，让我们谈谈你，”她补充道，摇摇头，仿佛她要摆脱一些多余的压迫她的东西。 ‘让我们谈谈你的事情吧。我收到了你的信，我就在这里。

‘Yes, all my hopes are in you,’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch.
“是的，我所有的希望都寄托在你身上，”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇说。

‘Well, tell me all about it.’
“好吧，告诉我一切吧。”

And Stepan Arkadyevitch began to tell his story.
斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇开始讲述他的故事。

On reaching home Oblonsky helped his sister out, sighed, pressed her hand, and set off to his office.
回到家后，奥布朗斯基把他的妹妹扶了出来，叹了口气，握住她的手，然后前往他的办公室。

Chapter 19
第19章

When Anna went into the room, Dolly was sitting in the little drawing-room with a white-headed fat little boy, already like his father, giving him a lesson in French reading. As the boy read, he kept twisting and trying to tear off a button that was nearly off his jacket. His mother had several times taken his hand from it, but the fat little hand went back to the button again. His mother pulled the button off and put it in her pocket.
当安娜走进房间时，多莉正和一个已经像他父亲一样的白发胖小男孩坐在小客厅里，给他上法语阅读课。男孩一边读书，一边不停地扭动身体，试图撕下一颗几乎从他夹克上掉下来的纽扣。他的母亲好几次把他的手从按钮上拿开，但那只胖乎乎的小手又回到了按钮上。他的母亲把纽扣拉下来，放进口袋里。

‘Keep your hands still, Grisha,’ she said, and she took up her work, a coverlet she had long been making. She always set to work on it at depressed moments, and now she knitted at it nervously, twitching her fingers and counting the stitches. Though she had sent word the day before to her husband that it was nothing to her whether his sister came or not, she had made everything ready for her arrival, and was expecting her sister-in-law with emotion.
“保持你的手不动，格里沙，”她说，然后她开始做她的工作，这是她长期以来制作的床单。她总是在心情低落的时候开始做这件事，现在她紧张地编织着，抽动着手指，数着针数。虽然她前一天已经通知了丈夫，姐姐来不来与她无关，但她已经为她的到来做好了一切准备，并且满怀激动地等待着嫂子。

Dolly was crushed by her sorrow, utterly swallowed up by it. Still she did not forget that Anna, her sister-in-law, was the wife of one of the most important personages in Petersburg, and was a Petersburg grande dame. And, thanks to this circumstance, she did not carry out her threat to her husband—that is to say, she remembered that her sister-in-law was coming. ‘And, after all, Anna is in no wise to blame,’ thought Dolly. ‘I know nothing of her except the very best, and I have seen nothing but kindness and affection from her towards myself.’ It was true that as far as she could recall her impressions at Petersburg at the Karenins’, she did not like their household itself; there was something artificial in the whole framework of their family life. ‘But why should I not receive her? If only she doesn’t take it into her head to console me!’ thought Dolly. ‘All consolation and counsel and Christian forgiveness, all that I have thought over a thousand times, and it’s all no use.’
多莉被悲伤压垮了，完全被悲伤吞噬了。但她没有忘记，她的嫂子安娜是彼得堡最重要人物之一的妻子，是彼得堡的一位贵妇。而且，也正是因为这样的情况，她才没有将她对丈夫的威胁付诸实施——也就是说，她记得嫂子要来了。 “而且，毕竟，安娜也不能受到责备，”多莉想。 “除了最好的一面之外，我对她一无所知，我只看到她对我的友善和感情。”确实，就她在彼得堡卡列宁的印象而言，她不喜欢他们的生活。家庭本身；他们的家庭生活的整个框架里有一些人为的东西。 “但是我为什么不接待她呢？ “要是她不去安慰我就好了！”多莉想。 “所有的安慰、建议和基督徒的宽恕，我已经想过一千遍了，但都没有用。”

All these days Dolly had been alone with her children. She did not want to talk of her sorrow, but with that sorrow in her heart she could not talk of outside matters. She knew that in one way or another she would tell Anna everything, and she was alternately glad at the thought of speaking freely, and angry at the necessity of speaking of her humiliation with her, his sister, and of hearing her ready-made phrases of good advice and comfort. She had been on the lookout for her, glancing at her watch every minute, and, as so often happens, let slip just that minute when her visitor arrived, so that she did not hear the bell.
这些天多莉一直独自和她的孩子们在一起。她不想谈论自己的悲伤，但心中有悲伤，她又不能谈论外面的事情。她知道，以某种方式，她会告诉安娜一切，她时而因想到能自由地畅所欲言而感到高兴，时而因必须与她，他的妹妹谈论她的屈辱，并听到她现成的短语而感到愤怒。好的建议和安慰。她一直在寻找她，每分钟都会看一眼手表，而且，正如经常发生的那样，当她的访客到来时，她就在这一分钟溜走了，所以她没有听到铃声。

Catching a sound of skirts and light steps at the door, she looked round, and her care-worn face unconsciously expressed not gladness, but wonder. She got up and embraced her sister-in-law.
听见门口传来裙子的声音和轻快的脚步声，她环顾四周，那张饱经沧桑的脸上不自觉地流露出的不是喜悦，而是惊奇。她站起来，拥抱了嫂子。

‘What, here already!’ she said as she kissed her.
“什么，已经在这里了！”她一边吻着她一边说道。

‘Dolly, how glad I am to see you!’
“多莉，见到你我真高兴！”

‘I am glad, too,’ said Dolly, faintly smiling, and trying by the expression of Anna’s face to find out whether she knew. ‘Most likely she knows,’ she thought, noticing the sympathy in Anna’s face. ‘Well, come along, I’ll take you to your room,’ she went on, trying to defer as long as possible the moment of confidences.
“我也很高兴，”多莉微笑着说道，试图从安娜的表情看出她是否知道。 “她很可能知道，”她想，注意到安娜脸上的同情。 “好吧，来吧，我带你去你的房间，”她继续说道，试图尽可能推迟倾诉的时刻。

‘Is this Grisha? Heavens, how he’s grown!’ said Anna; and kissing him, never taking her eyes off Dolly, she stood still and flushed a little. ‘No, please, let us stay here.’
“这是格里沙吗？天啊，他长得多大啊！”安娜说道。多莉一动不动地站着，脸红了一点，亲吻了他，眼睛始终没有离开过多莉。 “不，求你了，让我们留在这里吧。”

She took off her kerchief and her hat, and catching it in a lock of her black hair, which was a mass of curls, she tossed her head and shook her hair down.
她摘下头巾和帽子，把它夹在自己一绺黑发上，那是一团卷发，她低下头，把头发甩了下来。

‘You are radiant with health and happiness!’ said Dolly, almost with envy.
“你容光焕发，健康快乐！”多莉几乎是羡慕地说。

‘I?.... Yes,’ said Anna. ‘Merciful heavens, Tanya! You’re the same age as my Seryozha,’ she added, addressing the little girl as she ran in. She took her in her arms and kissed her. ‘Delightful child, delightful! Show me them all.’
“我？……是的，”安娜说。 ‘仁慈的老天爷，塔尼娅！你和我的谢廖扎同龄。”她一边跑进来，一边对小女孩说道。她把她抱在怀里，亲吻了她。 ‘可爱的孩子，可爱的孩子！把它们全部给我看。

She mentioned them, not only remembering the names, but the years, months, characters, illnesses of all the children, and Dolly could not but appreciate that.
她提到他们，不仅记住了名字，还记住了所有孩子的年份、月份、性格、疾病，多莉对此不禁感激不已。

‘Very well, we will go to them,’ she said. ‘It’s a pity Vassya’s asleep.’
“很好，我们会去找他们，”她说。 “可惜瓦夏睡着了。”

After seeing the children, they sat down, alone now, in the drawing room, to coffee. Anna took the tray, and then pushed it away from her.
见到孩子们后，他们独自坐在客厅里喝咖啡。安娜接过托盘，然后把它推开。

‘Dolly,’ she said, ‘he has told me.’
“多莉，”她说，“他已经告诉我了。”

Dolly looked coldly at Anna; she was waiting now for phrases of conventional sympathy, but Anna said nothing of the sort.
多莉冷冷地看着安娜。她现在正在等待传统的同情之词，但安娜什么也没说。

‘Dolly, dear,’ she said, ‘I don’t want to speak for him to you, nor to try to comfort you; that’s impossible. But, darling, I’m simply sorry, sorry from my heart for you!’
“多莉，亲爱的，”她说，“我不想代表他对你说话，也不想试图安慰你；我不想告诉你。”这不可能。但是，亲爱的，我只是很抱歉，从心里为你感到抱歉！”

Under the thick lashes of her shining eyes tears suddenly glittered. She moved nearer to her sister-in-law and took her hand in her vigorous little hand. Dolly did not shrink away, but her face did not lose its frigid expression. She said:
浓密的睫毛下，她闪亮的眼睛突然闪烁着泪光。她靠近了嫂子，用充满活力的小手握住了她的手。多莉并没有退缩，但她的脸上却没有失去冰冷的表情。她说：

‘To comfort me’s impossible. Everything’s lost after what has happened, everything’s over!’
‘要安慰我是不可能的。事情发生之后，一切都失去了，一切都结束了！”

And directly she had said this, her face suddenly softened. Anna lifted the wasted, thin hand of Dolly, kissed it and said:
此言一出，她的脸色顿时变得柔和起来。安娜举起多莉那只瘦弱的手，吻了一下，说道：

‘But, Dolly, what’s to be done, what’s to be done? How is it best to act in this awful position—that’s what you must think of.’
“但是，多莉，该怎么办，该怎么办？在这种可怕的处境下，如何行动才是最好的——这就是你必须考虑的。

‘All’s over, and there’s nothing more,’ said Dolly. ‘And the worst of all is, you see, that I can’t cast him off: there are the children, I am tied. And I can’t live with him! it’s a torture to me to see him.’
“一切都结束了，再也没有什么了，”多莉说。 “最糟糕的是，你看，我无法摆脱他：孩子们在那里，我被绑住了。而且我不能和他一起生活！见到他对我来说是一种折磨。

‘Dolly, darling, he has spoken to me, but I want to hear it from you: tell me about it.’
“多莉，亲爱的，他已经跟我说过话了，但我想听你说：告诉我吧。”

Dolly looked at her inquiringly.
多莉询问地看着她。

Sympathy and love unfeigned were visible on Anna’s face.
安娜的脸上流露出真诚的同情和爱意。

‘Very well,’ she said all at once. ‘But I will tell you it from the beginning. You know how I was married. With the education mamma gave us I was more than innocent, I was stupid. I knew nothing. I know they say men tell their wives of their former lives, but Stiva’—she corrected herself—‘Stepan Arkadyevitch told me nothing. You’ll hardly believe it, but till now I imagined that I was the only woman he had known. So I lived eight years. You must understand that I was so far from suspecting infidelity, I regarded it as impossible, and then— try to imagine it—with such ideas, to find out suddenly all the horror, all the loathsomeness.... You must try and understand me. To be fully convinced of one’s happiness, and all at once...’ continued Dolly, holding back her sobs, ‘to get a letter...his letter to his mistress, my governess. No, it’s too awful!’ She hastily pulled out her handkerchief and hid her face in it. ‘I can understand being carried away by feeling,’ she went on after a brief silence, ‘but deliberately, slyly deceiving me...and with whom?... To go on being my husband together with her...it’s awful! You can’t understand...’
“很好，”她立刻说道。 “但我会从一开始就告诉你。你知道我是怎么结婚的。在妈妈给我们的教育下，我不仅是天真，而且是愚蠢。我什么都不知道。我知道他们说男人会告诉他们的妻子他们以前的生活，但是斯蒂瓦”——她纠正自己——“斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇什么也没告诉我。你很难相信，但直到现在我还以为我是他认识的唯一女人。就这样我活了八年。你必须明白，我根本没有怀疑不忠，我认为这是不可能的，然后——尝试想象它——带着这样的想法，突然发现所有的恐怖，所有的令人厌恶……你必须尝试并理解我。完全相信一个人的幸福，并且一下子……”多莉继续忍住抽泣，“去收到一封信……他写给他的情妇，我的家庭女教师的信。不，太可怕了！”她急忙抽出手帕，把脸埋进去。 “我可以理解被感情冲昏头脑，”她沉默片刻后继续说道，“但是故意、狡猾地欺骗我……和谁？……继续和她一起做我的丈夫……太可怕了。” ！你无法理解……”

‘Oh, yes, I understand! I understand! Dolly, dearest, I do understand,’ said Anna, pressing her hand.
‘噢，是的，我明白了！我明白！多莉，最亲爱的，我明白，”安娜握着她的手说道。

‘And do you imagine he realizes all the awfulness of my position?’ Dolly resumed. ‘Not the slightest! He’s happy and contented.’
“你认为他意识到我的处境有多糟糕吗？”多莉继续说道。 ‘一点也没有！他很高兴也很满足。

‘Oh, no!’ Anna interposed quickly. ‘He’s to be pitied, he’s weighed down by remorse...’
“哦，不！”安娜赶紧插嘴。 “他值得怜悯，他被悔恨压垮了……”

‘Is he capable of remorse?’ Dolly interrupted, gazing intently into her sister-in-law’s face.
“他有悔恨的能力吗？”多莉打断道，专注地凝视着嫂子的脸。

‘Yes. I know him. I could not look at him without feeling sorry for him. We both know him. He’s good-hearted, but he’s proud, and now he’s so humiliated. What touched me most...’ (and here Anna guessed what would touch Dolly most) ‘he’s tortured by two things: that he’s ashamed for the children’s sake, and that, loving you—yes, yes, loving you beyond everything on earth,’ she hurriedly interrupted Dolly, who would have answered—‘he has hurt you, pierced you to the heart. ‘No, no, she cannot forgive me,’ he keeps saying.’
'是的。我认识他。我无法不为他感到难过。我们都认识他。他心地善良，却骄傲自大，如今却落得如此屈辱。最让我感动的……”（安娜猜到最让多莉感动的是什么）“他被两件事折磨着：他为孩子们感到羞耻，还有，爱你——是的，是的，爱你胜过地球上的一切”她急忙打断多莉，多莉会回答——“他伤害了你，刺穿了你的心。 “不，不，她不能原谅我，”他不断地说。

Dolly looked dreamily away beyond her sister-in-law as she listened to her words.
多莉听着嫂子的话，恍惚地把目光移到了嫂子后面。

‘Yes, I can see that his position is awful; it’s worse for the guilty than the innocent,’ she said, ‘if he feels that all the misery comes from his fault. But how am I to forgive him, how am I to be his wife again after her? For me to live with him now would be torture, just because I love my past love for him...’
“是的，我看得出来他的处境很糟糕； “如果他觉得所有的痛苦都源于他的过错，那么对有罪者来说比无辜者更糟糕，”她说。但我该如何原谅他，在她之后我该如何再次成为他的妻子呢？对我来说，现在和他住在一起会是一种折磨，只是因为我爱我过去对他的爱……”

And sobs cut short her words. But as though of set design, each time she was softened she began to speak again of what exasperated her.
抽泣打断了她的话。但就像布景一样，每次她的态度软化时，她就会再次说出让她恼怒的事情。

‘She’s young, you see, she’s pretty,’ she went on. ‘Do you know, Anna, my youth and my beauty are gone, taken by whom? By him and his children. I have worked for him, and all I had has gone in his service, and now of course any fresh, vulgar creature has more charm for him. No doubt they talked of me together, or, worse still, they were silent. Do you understand?’
“她很年轻，你看，她很漂亮，”她继续说道。 ‘你知道吗，安娜，我的青春和美丽都消失了，被谁夺走了？由他和他的孩子们。我为他工作过，我所有的一切都为他服务了，当然，现在任何新鲜的、粗俗的生物对他来说都更具魅力。毫无疑问，他们在一起谈论我，或者更糟糕的是，他们保持沉默。你明白吗？'

Again her eyes glowed with hatred.
她的眼中再次闪烁着仇恨的光芒。

‘And after that he will tell me.... What! can I believe him? Never! No, everything is over, everything that once made my comfort, the reward of my work, and my sufferings.... Would you believe it, I was teaching Grisha just now: once this was a joy to me, now it is a torture. What have I to strive and toil for? Why are the children here? What’s so awful is that all at once my heart’s turned, and instead of love and tenderness, I have nothing but hatred for him; yes, hatred. I could kill him.’
‘之后他会告诉我……什么！我可以相信他吗？绝不！不，一切都结束了，一切曾经让我感到安慰、我工作的回报、我的痛苦的一切……你相信吗，我刚才在教格里沙：曾经这对我来说是一种快乐，现在它是一种痛苦。酷刑。我有什么值得努力和劳苦的？孩子们为什么在这里？可怕的是我的心突然变了，对他不再有爱和温柔，只有恨；是的，仇恨。我可以杀了他。

‘Darling Dolly, I understand, but don’t torture yourself. You are so distressed, so overwrought, that you look at many things mistakenly.’
“亲爱的多莉，我理解，但不要折磨自己。你是如此的苦恼，如此的过度紧张，以至于你对很多事情都看错了。”

Dolly grew calmer, and for two minutes both were silent.
多莉平静了一些，两人都沉默了两分钟。

‘What’s to be done? Think for me, Anna, help me. I have thought over everything, and I see nothing.’
‘该怎么办？为我想想，安娜，帮助我。我什么都想了，但我什么也没看到。

Anna could think of nothing, but her heart responded instantly to each word, to each change of expression of her sister-in-law.
安娜什么也想不起来，但她的心对嫂子的每一个字，每一个表情的变化都立即做出了反应。

‘One thing I would say,’ began Anna. ‘I am his sister, I know his character, that faculty of forgetting everything, everything’ (she waved her hand before her forehead), ‘that faculty for being completely carried away, but for completely repenting too. He cannot believe it, he cannot comprehend now how he can have acted as he did.’
“我要说一件事，”安娜开始说道。 “我是他的妹妹，我了解他的性格，那种忘记一切的能力，一切”（她在额头前挥挥手），“那种完全忘乎所以的能力，但也完全悔改的能力。”他简直不敢相信，他现在无法理解他怎么会做出那样的事。”

‘No; he understands, he understood!’ Dolly broke in. ‘But I...you are forgetting me...does it make it easier for me?’
'不; “他明白，他明白！”多莉插话道，“但是我……你忘了我……这对我来说是不是更容易一些？”

‘Wait a minute. When he told me, I will own I did not realize all the awfulness of your position. I saw nothing but him, and that the family was broken up. I felt sorry for him, but after talking to you, I see it, as a woman, quite differently. I see your agony, and I can’t tell you how sorry I am for you! But, Dolly, darling, I fully realize your sufferings, only there is one thing I don’t know; I don’t know...I don’t know how much love there is still in your heart for him. That you know—whether there is enough for you to be able to forgive him. If there is, forgive him!’
'等一下。当他告诉我时，我承认我没有意识到你的处境有多糟糕。除了他，我什么也没看见，而且这个家庭已经支离破碎。我为他感到难过，但在与你交谈之后，作为一个女人，我的看法截然不同。我看到你的痛苦，我无法告诉你我有多为你难过！但是，多莉，亲爱的，我完全了解你的痛苦，只是有一件事我不知道；我不知道……我不知道你心里对他还有多少爱。你知道——是否有足够的理由让你能够原谅他。如果有的话，请原谅他！”

‘No,’ Dolly was beginning, but Anna cut her short, kissing her hand once more.
“不，”多莉正要开口，但安娜打断了她的话，再次亲吻了她的手。

‘I know more of the world than you do,’ she said. ‘I know how men like Stiva look at it. You speak of his talking of you with her. That never happened. Such men are unfaithful, but their home and wife are sacred to them. Somehow or other these women are still looked on with contempt by them, and do not touch on their feeling for their family. They draw a sort of line that can’t be crossed between them and their families. I don’t understand it, but it is so.’
“我比你更了解这个世界，”她说。 “我知道像斯蒂瓦这样的男人是如何看待这件事的。你谈到他和她谈论你。从未发生过。这样的男人不忠，但他们的家庭和妻子对他们来说是神圣的。不知怎的，这些女人仍然被他们轻蔑地看待，并且没有触及他们对家庭的感情。他们在自己和家人之间划下了一条不能逾越的界限。我不明白，但确实如此。

‘Yes, but he has kissed her...’
“是的，但他吻了她……”

‘Dolly, hush, darling. I saw Stiva when he was in love with you. I remember the time when he came to me and cried, talking of you, and all the poetry and loftiness of his feeling for you, and I know that the longer he has lived with you the loftier you have been in his eyes. You know we have sometimes laughed at him for putting in at every word: ‘Dolly’s a marvelous woman.’ You have always been a divinity for him, and you are that still, and this has not been an infidelity of the heart...’
‘多莉，安静，亲爱的。当斯蒂瓦爱上你的时候我就看到了他。我记得他来找我哭的时候，谈到你，以及他对你的所有诗意和崇高的感情，我知道他和你一起生活的时间越长，你在他眼中就越崇高。你知道，我们有时会嘲笑他每一句话都说：“多莉是一个了不起的女人。”对他来说，你一直是一个神，现在仍然如此，这并不是内心的不忠…… '

‘But if it is repeated?’
“但是如果重复呢？”

‘It cannot be, as I understand it...’
“据我了解，这不可能……”

‘Yes, but could you forgive it?’
“是的，但是你能原谅吗？”

‘I don’t know, I can’t judge.... Yes, I can,’ said Anna, thinking a moment; and grasping the position in her thought and weighing it in her inner balance, she added: ‘Yes, I can, I can, I can. Yes, I could forgive it. I could not be the same, no; but I could forgive it, and forgive it as though it had never been, never been at all...’
“我不知道，我无法判断……是的，我可以，”安娜想了一会儿说道。她抓住自己的想法，权衡内心的平衡，补充道：“是的，我可以，我可以，我可以。”是的，我可以原谅。我不可能是一样的，不；但我可以原谅它，原谅它，就好像它从来没有发生过一样……”

‘Oh, of course,’ Dolly interposed quickly, as though saying what she had more than once thought, ‘else it would not be forgiveness. If one forgives, it must be completely, completely. Come, let us go; I’ll take you to your room,’ she said, getting up, and on the way she embraced Anna. ‘My dear, how glad I am you came. It has made things better, ever so much better.’
“哦，当然，”多莉很快插嘴，仿佛说出了她不止一次的想法，“否则就不是宽恕。”如果一个人宽恕，那一定是彻底、彻底的宽恕。来吧，我们走；我带你去你的房间。”她站起身来，拥抱了安娜。 ‘亲爱的，你来了我真高兴。它让事情变得更好，变得更好了。”

Chapter 20
第20章

The whole of that day Anna spent at home, that’s to say at the Oblonskys’, and received no one, though some of her acquaintances had already heard of her arrival, and came to call; the same day. Anna spent the whole morning with Dolly and the children. She merely sent a brief note to her brother to tell him that he must not fail to dine at home. ‘Come, God is merciful,’ she wrote.
那天安娜一整天都待在家里，也就是说，在奥布朗斯基家，没有接待任何人，尽管她的一些熟人已经听说了她的到来，并前来拜访。同一天。安娜整个上午都和多莉和孩子们在一起。她只是给哥哥发了一张简短的纸条，告诉他一定不能不在家吃饭。 “来吧，上帝是仁慈的，”她写道。

Oblonsky did dine at home: the conversation was general, and his wife, speaking to him, addressed him as ‘Stiva,’ as she had not done before. In the relations of the husband and wife the same estrangement still remained, but there was no talk now of separation, and Stepan Arkadyevitch saw the possibility of explanation and reconciliation.
奥布朗斯基确实在家里吃饭：谈话很一般，他的妻子在跟他说话时称他为“斯蒂瓦”，她以前从未这样做过。在丈夫和妻子的关系中，同样的隔阂仍然存在，但现在不再谈论分离，斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇看到了解释和和解的可能性。

Immediately after dinner Kitty came in. She knew Anna Arkadyevna, but only very slightly, and she came now to her sister’s with some trepidation, at the prospect of meeting this fashionable Petersburg lady, whom everyone spoke so highly of. But she made a favorable impression on Anna Arkadyevna—she saw that at once. Anna was unmistakably admiring her loveliness and her youth: before Kitty knew where she was she found herself not merely under Anna’s sway, but in love with her, as young girls do fall in love with older and married women. Anna was not like a fashionable lady, nor the mother of a boy of eight years old. In the elasticity of her movements, the freshness and the unflagging eagerness which persisted in her face, and broke out in her smile and her glance, she would rather have passed for a girl of twenty, had it not been for a serious and at times mournful look in her eyes, which struck and attracted Kitty. Kitty felt that Anna was perfectly simple and was concealing nothing, but that she had another higher world of interests inaccessible to her, complex and poetic.
晚饭后，基蒂立刻进来了。她认识安娜·阿尔卡季耶夫娜，但只是很轻微，现在她来到她姐姐家，心里有些忐忑，因为她想到了会见到这位大家都高度评价的时髦的彼得堡女士。但她给安娜·阿尔卡季耶夫娜留下了好印象——她立刻就看出了这一点。安娜无疑很欣赏她的可爱和年轻：在基蒂知道自己在哪里之前，她发现自己不仅受安娜的影响，而且爱上了她，就像年轻女孩爱上年长的已婚妇女一样。安娜不像一位时尚女士，也不像一个八岁男孩的母亲。她的动作富有弹性，脸上始终洋溢着清新和不屈不挠的渴望，在她的微笑和眼神中爆发出来，如果不是因为严肃而有时，她宁愿被当作一个二十岁的女孩。她眼中的哀伤神情，吸引了凯蒂。基蒂觉得安娜很单纯，没有隐瞒什么，但她却有另一个她无法企及的更高层次的兴趣世界，复杂而富有诗意。

After dinner, when Dolly went away to her own room, Anna rose quickly and went up to her brother, who was just lighting a cigar.
晚饭后，当多莉走回自己的房间时，安娜迅速起身走到她哥哥身边，她哥哥正在点雪茄。

‘Stiva,’ she said to him, winking gaily, crossing him and glancing towards the door, ‘go, and God help you.’
“斯蒂瓦，”她对他说，高兴地眨了眨眼，越过他，朝门口看了一眼，“走吧，上帝会帮助你。”

He threw down the cigar, understanding her, and departed through the doorway.
他理解了她的意思，扔掉了雪茄，然后从门口离开了。

When Stepan Arkadyevitch had disappeared, she went back to the sofa where she had been sitting, surrounded by the children. Either because the children saw that their mother was fond of this aunt, or that they felt a special charm in her themselves, the two elder ones, and the younger following their lead, as children so often do, had clung about their new aunt since before dinner, and would not leave her side. And it had become a sort of game among them to sit a close as possible to their aunt, to touch her, hold her little hand, kiss it, play with her ring, or even touch the flounce of her skirt.
等斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇消失后，她又回到原来坐的沙发上，周围都是孩子们。要么是因为孩子们看到他们的母亲喜欢这位阿姨，要么是他们自己感受到了她自己的特殊魅力，两个大孩子和小孩子就像孩子们经常做的那样，从那时起就紧紧抓住他们的新阿姨。晚饭前，也不肯离开她身边。尽可能靠近姨妈坐，触摸她，握住她的小手，亲吻她，玩弄她的戒指，甚至触摸她裙子的荷叶边，这已经成为他们之间的一种游戏。

‘Come, come, as we were sitting before,’ said Anna Arkadyevna, sitting down in her place.
“来吧，来吧，就像我们之前坐的那样。”安娜·阿尔卡季耶芙娜在自己的位置上坐下说道。

And again Grisha poked his little face under her arm, and nestled with his head on her gown, beaming with pride and happiness.
格里沙再次把小脸探到她的腋下，把头靠在她的长袍上，脸上洋溢着骄傲和幸福的笑容。

‘And when is your next ball?’ she asked Kitty.
“你的下一场舞会是什么时候？”她问基蒂。

‘Next week, and a splendid ball. One of those balls where one always enjoys oneself.’
“下周，一场精彩的舞会。这是一种让人总是乐在其中的球。”

‘Why, are there balls where one always enjoys oneself?’ Anna said, with tender irony.
“为什么，有让人总是乐在其中的舞会吗？”安娜带着温柔的讽刺说道。

‘It’s strange, but there are. At the Bobrishtchevs’ one always enjoys oneself, and at the Nikitins’ too, while at the Mezhkovs’ it’s always dull. Haven’t you noticed it?’
‘这很奇怪，但确实有。在博布里什切夫家总是很开心，在尼基廷家也是如此，而在梅日科夫家却总是很乏味。你没有注意到吗？

‘No, my dear, for me there are no balls now where one enjoys oneself,’ said Anna, and Kitty detected in her eyes that mysterious world which was not open to her. ‘For me there are some less dull and tiresome.’
“不，亲爱的，对我来说，现在已经没有什么能让人高兴的了，”安娜说，基蒂在她的眼睛里发现了那个对她不开放的神秘世界。 “对我来说，有一些不那么沉闷和令人厌烦的东西。”

‘How can you be dull at a ball?’
“你怎么能在舞会上迟钝呢？”

‘Why should not I be dull at a ball?’ inquired Anna.
“我为什么不应该在舞会上表现得迟钝呢？”安娜问道。

Kitty perceived that Anna knew what answer would follow.
基蒂察觉到安娜知道接下来会出现什么答案。

‘Because you always look nicer than anyone.’
“因为你总是比任何人都好看。”

Anna had the faculty of blushing. She blushed a little, and said:
安娜有脸红的本领。她脸红了一点，说道：

‘In the first place it’s never so; and secondly, if it were, what difference would it make to me?’
“首先，事实并非如此；其次，如果是的话，这对我来说会有什么不同？

‘Are you coming to this ball?’ asked Kitty.
“你会来参加这个舞会吗？”基蒂问。

‘I imagine it won’t be possible to avoid going. Here, take it,’ she said to Tanya, who was pulling the loosely-fitting ring off her white, slender-tipped finger.
“我想避免去是不可能的。给你，拿着吧，”她对坦尼娅说，坦尼娅正从她白皙细长的手指上取下宽松的戒指。

‘I shall be so glad if you go. I should so like to see you at a ball.’
‘如果你去的话我会很高兴。我很想在舞会上见到你。”

‘Anyway, if I do go, I shall comfort myself with the thought that it’s a pleasure to you...Grisha, don’t pull my hair. It’s untidy enough without that,’ she said, putting up a straying lock, which Grisha had been playing with.
“无论如何，如果我真的去了，我会安慰自己，这对你来说很高兴……格里沙，别拉我的头发。”没有这个就够不整洁了。”她边说边竖起一把格里沙一直在摆弄的杂乱的锁。

‘I imagine you at the ball in lilac.’
“我想象你穿着淡紫色衣服参加舞会。”

‘And why in lilac precisely?’ asked Anna, smiling. ‘Now, children, run along, run along. Do you hear? Miss Hoole is calling you to tea,’ she said, tearing the children from her, and sending them off to the dining room.
“为什么是紫丁香呢？”安娜微笑着问道。 ‘现在，孩子们，一起跑，一起跑。你听到了吗？胡尔小姐叫你们去喝茶。”她一边说着，一边把孩子们从她身边拉开，送他们去餐厅。

‘I know why you press me to come to the ball. You expect a great deal of this ball, and you want everyone to be there to take part in it.’
“我知道你为什么催促我参加舞会。你对这个舞会抱有很大的期望，你希望每个人都能参加。

‘How do you know? Yes.’
'你怎么知道？是的。'

‘Oh! what a happy time you are at,’ pursued Anna. ‘I remember, and I know that blue haze like the mist on the mountains in Switzerland. That mist which covers everything in that blissful time when childhood is just ending, and out of that vast circle, happy and gay, there is a path growing narrower and narrower, and it is delightful and alarming to enter the ballroom, bright and splendid as it is.... Who has not been through it?’
'哦！ “你现在正处于多么快乐的时光啊。”安娜继续说道。 “我记得，而且我知道那种蓝色的薄雾，就像瑞士山上的薄雾一样。在童年即将结束的幸福时光里，那片薄雾笼罩着一切，在那个快乐而快乐的巨大圆圈之外，有一条路越来越窄，进入舞厅是令人愉快和令人震惊的，明亮而辉煌，就像是……谁没有经历过呢？

Kitty smiled without speaking. ‘But how did she go through it? How I should like to know all her love story!’ thought Kitty, recalling the unromantic appearance of Alexey Alexandrovitch, her husband.
凯蒂微笑着没有说话。 ‘但是她是怎么经历这一切的呢？ “我多么想知道她所有的爱情故事啊！”基蒂一边想，一边回忆起她丈夫阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇的平淡外表。

‘I know something. Stiva told me, and I congratulate you. I liked him so much,’ Anna continued. ‘I met Vronsky at the railway station.’
‘我知道一些事情。斯蒂瓦告诉我的，我祝贺你。我非常喜欢他，”安娜继续说道。 “我在火车站遇见了渥伦斯基。”

‘Oh, was he there?’ asked Kitty, blushing. ‘What was it Stiva told you?’
“哦，他在吗？”基蒂红着脸问道。 “斯蒂瓦告诉你什么了？”

‘Stiva gossiped about it all. And I should be so glad...I traveled yesterday with Vronsky’s mother,’ she went on; ‘and his mother talked without a pause of him, he’s her favorite. I know mothers are partial, but...’
‘斯蒂瓦对这一切都八卦了。我应该很高兴……昨天我和渥伦斯基的母亲一起旅行，”她继续说道； “他的母亲不停地谈论着他，他是她最喜欢的人。”我知道母亲们有偏心，但是……”

‘What did his mother tell you?’
“他妈妈告诉你什么了？”

‘Oh, a great deal! And I know that he’s her favorite; still one can see how chivalrous he is.... Well, for instance, she told me that he had wanted to give up all his property to his brother, that he had done something extraordinary when he was quite a child, saved a woman out of the water. He’s a hero, in fact,’ said Anna, smiling and recollecting the two hundred roubles he had given at the station.
‘噢，很多！我知道他是她的最爱；还是能看出他有多么侠义……嗯，比如，她告诉我，他想把所有的财产都交给他的兄弟，他小时候做了一件了不起的事，救了一个女人从水里出来。事实上，他是个英雄。”安娜微笑着回忆起他在车站给的两百卢布。

But she did not tell Kitty about the two hundred roubles. For some reason it was disagreeable to her to think of it. She felt that there was something that had to do with her in it, and something that ought not to have been.
但她没有告诉基蒂关于两百卢布的事情。出于某种原因，她一想到这件事就感到不舒服。她觉得这里面有一些与她有关，又不该有的东西。

‘She pressed me very much to go and see her,’ Anna went on; ‘and I shall be glad to go to see her tomorrow. Stiva is staying a long while in Dolly’s room, thank God,’ Anna added, changing the subject, and getting up, Kitty fancied, displeased with something.
“她极力催促我去看她，”安娜继续说道。 “明天我会很高兴去看她。谢天谢地，斯蒂瓦在多莉的房间里呆了很长一段时间。”安娜补充道，她改变了话题，站了起来，基蒂觉得她对某事感到不满。

‘No, I’m first! No, I!’ screamed the children, who had finished tea, running up to their Aunt Anna.
‘不，我是第一个！不，是我！”喝完茶的孩子们尖叫着跑向安娜阿姨。

‘All together,’ said Anna, and she ran laughing to meet them, and embraced and swung round all the throng of swarming children, shrieking with delight.
“大家一起，”安娜说，她笑着跑去迎接他们，拥抱着一群孩子，在他们周围转来转去，高兴地尖叫着。

Chapter 21
第21章

Dolly came out of her room to the tea of the grown-up people. Stepan Arkadyevitch did not come out. He must have left his wife’s room by the other door.
多莉从她的房间出来，去和大人们一起喝茶。斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇没有出来。他肯定是从另一扇门离开妻子的房间的。

‘I am afraid you’ll be cold upstairs,’ observed Dolly, addressing Anna; ‘I want to move you downstairs, and we shall be nearer.’
“我担心你在楼上会很冷，”多莉对安娜说道。 “我想把你搬到楼下，这样我们就近一些了。”

‘Oh, please, don’t trouble about me,’ answered Anna, looking intently into Dolly’s face, trying to make out whether there had been a reconciliation or not.
“哦，拜托，别为我烦恼，”安娜回答道，她专注地看着多莉的脸，试图弄清楚是否已经和解了。

‘It will be lighter for you here,’ answered her sister-in-law.
“你在这里会轻松一些，”她的嫂子回答道。

‘I assure you that I sleep everywhere, and always like a marmot.’
“我向你保证，我到处睡觉，而且总是像土拨鼠一样。”

‘What’s the question?’ inquired Stepan Arkadyevitch, coming out of his room and addressing his wife.
“有什么问题吗？”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇从房间里出来，对妻子问道。

From his tone both Kitty and Anna knew that a reconciliation had taken place.
从他的语气中，基蒂和安娜都知道和解已经发生了。

‘I want to move Anna downstairs, but we must hang up blinds. No one knows how to do it; I must see to it myself,’ answered Dolly addressing him.
“我想把安娜搬下楼，但我们必须把百叶窗挂起来。没有人知道如何去做； “我必须亲自处理这件事。”多莉对他回答道。

‘God knows whether they are fully reconciled,’ thought Anna, hearing her tone, cold and composed.
“天知道他们是否完全和解了，”安娜听到她冰冷而平静的语气，想道。

‘Oh, nonsense, Dolly, always making difficulties,’ answered her husband. ‘Come, I’ll do it all, if you like...’
“哦，胡说，多莉，总是惹麻烦。”她丈夫回答道。 “来吧，我会做这一切，如果你愿意的话……”

‘Yes, they must be reconciled,’ thought Anna.
“是的，他们必须和解，”安娜想。

‘I know how you do everything,’ answered Dolly. ‘You tell Matvey to do what can’t be done, and go away yourself, leaving him to make a muddle of everything,’ and her habitual, mocking smile curved the corners of Dolly’s lips as she spoke.
“我知道你做每件事的方式，”多莉回答。 “你告诉玛特维做不能做的事，然后你自己走开，让他把一切都搞得一团糟。”说话时，多莉的嘴角挂着习惯性的、嘲讽的微笑。

‘Full, full reconciliation, full,’ thought Anna; ‘thank God!’ and rejoicing that she was the cause of it, she went up to Dolly and kissed her.
“完全，完全和解，完全，”安娜想。 “感谢上帝！”她很庆幸自己是这一切的罪魁祸首，走到多莉面前亲吻了她。

‘Not at all. Why do you always look down on me and Matvey?’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch, smiling hardly perceptibly, and addressing his wife.
'一点也不。为什么你总是看不起我和玛特维？”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇对他的妻子说道，他微笑得难以察觉。

The whole evening Dolly was, as always, a little mocking in her tone to her husband, while Stepan Arkadyevitch was happy and cheerful, but not so as to seem as though, having been forgiven, he had forgotten his offense.
整个晚上，多莉对她丈夫的语气一如既往地带着一点嘲讽，而斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇却很高兴，但又不至于显得他已经被原谅了，忘记了自己的过错。

At half-past nine o’clock a particularly joyful and pleasant family conversation over the tea-table at the Oblonskys’ was broken up by an apparently simple incident. But this simple incident for some reason struck everyone as strange. Talking about common acquaintances in Petersburg, Anna got up quickly.
九点半，奥布隆斯基家茶几上一场特别愉快的家庭谈话被一件看似简单的事情打断了。但这个简单的事件不知为什么让所有人都感到奇怪。说起在彼得堡常见的熟人，安娜连忙站了起来。

‘She is in my album,’ she said; ‘and, by the way, I’ll show you my Seryozha,’ she added, with a mother’s smile of pride.
“她在我的专辑里，”她说； “顺便说一句，我会让你看看我的谢廖扎，”她补充道，带着母亲自豪的微笑。

Towards ten o’clock, when she usually said good-night to her son, and often before going to a ball put him to bed herself, she felt depressed at being so far from him; and whatever she was talking about, she kept coming back in thought to her curly-headed Seryozha. She longed to look at his photograph and talk of him. Seizing the first pretext, she got up, and with her light, resolute step went for her album. The stairs up to her room came out on the landing of the great warm main staircase.
十点左右，当她通常对儿子说晚安，并且经常在去参加舞会之前亲自让他上床睡觉时，她会因为离他太远而感到沮丧；无论她在说什么，她总是会想起她的卷发谢廖扎。她渴望看他的照片并谈论他。她抓住第一个借口，站了起来，迈着轻盈而坚定的步伐走向她的相册。通往她房间的楼梯位于温暖的主楼梯的平台上。

Just as she was leaving the drawing room, a ring was heard in the hall.
她刚走出客厅，大厅里就响起了铃声。

‘Who can that be?’ said Dolly.
“那是谁？”多莉问道。

‘It’s early for me to be fetched, and for anyone else it’s late,’ observed Kitty.
“对我来说被接走还早，对其他人来说就晚了，”基蒂说。

‘Sure to be someone with papers for me,’ put in Stepan Arkadyevitch. When Anna was passing the top of the staircase, a servant was running up to announce the visitor, while the visitor himself was standing under a lamp. Anna glancing down at once recognized Vronsky, and a strange feeling of pleasure and at the same time of dread of something stirred in her heart. He was standing still, not taking off his coat, pulling something out of his pocket. At the instant when she was just facing the stairs, he raised his eyes, caught sight of her, and into the expression of his face there passed a shade of embarrassment and dismay. With a slight inclination of her head she passed, hearing behind her Stepan Arkadyevitch’s loud voice calling him to come up, and the quiet, soft, and composed voice of Vronsky refusing.
“肯定是有证件给我的人，”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇插话道。当安娜经过楼梯顶时，一名仆人跑上来通报访客，而访客本人则站在一盏灯下。安娜低头一看，立刻认出了渥伦斯基，一种奇怪的愉悦感同时又在她的心中激起某种恐惧。他一动不动地站着，没有脱掉外套，只是从口袋里掏出一样东西。在她刚面向楼梯的那一瞬间，他抬起眼，看到了她，脸上的表情里闪过一丝尴尬和惊愕。她微微侧过头，走了过去，听见身后斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇大声叫他上来，而渥伦斯基用安静、柔和、镇静的声音拒绝了。

When Anna returned with the album, he was already gone, and Stepan Arkadyevitch was telling them that he had called to inquire about the dinner they were giving next day to a celebrity who had just arrived. ‘And nothing would induce him to come up. What a queer fellow he is!’ added Stepan Arkadyevitch.
当安娜带着专辑回来时，他已经走了，斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇告诉他们，他打电话是为了询问他们第二天为一位刚刚抵达的名人举办的晚宴。 “没有什么能诱使他上来。”他真是个奇怪的家伙！”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇补充道。

Kitty blushed. She thought that she was the only person who knew why he had come, and why he would not come up. ‘He has been at home,’ she thought, ‘and didn’t find me, and thought I should be here, but he did not come up because he thought it late, and Anna’s here.’
基蒂脸红了。她以为她是唯一一个知道他为什么来，又为什么不上来的人。 “他一直在家，”她想，“没有找到我，以为我应该在这里，但他没有出现，因为他认为已经晚了，而安娜在这里。”

All of them looked at each other, saying nothing, and began to look at Anna’s album.
众人面面相觑，没有说话，开始看安娜的相册。

There was nothing either exceptional or strange in a man’s calling at half-past nine on a friend to inquire details of a proposed dinner party and not coming in, but it seemed strange to all of them. Above all, it seemed strange and not right to Anna.
一个男人九点半打电话给朋友询问拟议的晚宴的细节却没有参加，这并没有什么特殊或奇怪的，但对他们所有人来说，这似乎很奇怪。最重要的是，这对安娜来说似乎很奇怪而且不正确。

Chapter 22
第22章

The ball was only just beginning as Kitty and her mother walked up the great staircase, flooded with light, and lined with flowers and footmen in powder and red coats. From the rooms came a constant, steady hum, as from a hive, and the rustle of movement; and while on the landing between trees they gave last touches to their hair and dresses before the mirror, they heard from the ballroom the careful, distinct notes of the fiddles of the orchestra beginning the first waltz. A little old man in civilian dress, arranging his gray curls before another mirror, and diffusing an odor of scent, stumbled against them on the stairs, and stood aside, evidently admiring Kitty, whom he did not know. A beardless youth, one of those society youths whom the old Prince Shtcherbatsky called ‘young bucks,’ in an exceedingly open waistcoat, straightening his white tie as he went, bowed to them, and after running by, came back to ask Kitty for a quadrille. As the first quadrille had already been given to Vronsky, she had to promise this youth the second. An officer, buttoning his glove, stood aside in the doorway, and stroking his mustache, admired rosy Kitty.
舞会才刚刚开始，基蒂和她的母亲走上明亮的大楼梯，两旁都是鲜花和穿着粉红色外套的男仆。房间里传来持续不断的嗡嗡声，就像从蜂巢里发出的一样，还有移动的沙沙声。当他们在树林间的楼梯平台上对着镜子最后抚摸自己的头发和衣服时，他们听到舞厅里传来管弦乐队仔细而清晰的小提琴音符，开始了第一首华尔兹。一个穿着便装的小老头，在另一面镜子前整理着灰色的卷发，散发出一股香味，在楼梯上绊倒了他们，站在一边，显然很欣赏他不认识的基蒂。一个没有胡须的年轻人，属于被老谢尔巴茨基亲王称为“小雄鹿”的上流社会青年，穿着一件敞开的背心，一边走一边整理着白领带，向他们鞠了一躬，跑过之后又回来向凯蒂要了一份礼物。卡德里尔舞。由于第一首四舞曲已经送给了渥伦斯基，她不得不答应这个年轻人第二首。一名军官站在门口，扣上手套的扣子，抚摸着小胡子，欣赏着玫瑰色的基蒂。

Although her dress, her coiffure, and all the preparations for the ball had cost Kitty great trouble and consideration, at this moment she walked into the ballroom in her elaborate tulle dress over a pink slip as easily and simply as though all the rosettes and lace, all the minute details of her attire, had not cost her or her family a moment’s attention, as though she had been born in that tulle and lace, with her hair done up high on her head, and a rose and two leaves on the top of it.
尽管她的着装，她的发型，还有舞会的所有准备工作都让凯蒂付出了很大的麻烦和考虑，但此时此刻，她穿着精致的薄纱连衣裙，套着粉色衬裙走进舞厅，就像所有的玫瑰花结和蕾丝一样轻松简单。她着装的所有细节，都没有引起她或她的家人片刻的注意，就好像她出生在薄纱和蕾丝中，头发高高地盘在头上，头上戴着一朵玫瑰和两片叶子。其顶部。

When, just before entering the ballroom, the princess, her mother, tried to turn right side out of the ribbon of her sash, Kitty had drawn back a little. She felt that everything must be right of itself, and graceful, and nothing could need setting straight.
就在进入舞厅之前，公主，也就是她的母亲，试图从腰带上向右转，基蒂向后退了一点。她觉得一切都应该是自然而然、优雅的，没有什么需要纠正的。

It was one of Kitty’s best days. Her dress was not uncomfortable anywhere; her lace berthe did not droop anywhere; her rosettes were not crushed nor torn off; her pink slippers with high, hollowed-out heels did not pinch, but gladdened her feet; and the thick rolls of fair chignon kept up on her head as if they were her own hair. All the three buttons buttoned up without tearing on the long glove that covered her hand without concealing its lines. The black velvet of her locket nestled with special softness round her neck. That velvet was delicious; at home, looking at her neck in the looking glass, Kitty had felt that that velvet was speaking. About all the rest there might be a doubt, but the velvet was delicious. Kitty smiled here too, at the ball, when she glanced at it in the glass. Her bare shoulders and arms gave Kitty a sense of chill marble, a feeling she particularly liked. Her eyes sparkled, and her rosy lips could not keep from smiling from the consciousness of her own attractiveness. She had scarcely entered the ballroom and reached the throng of ladies, all tulle, ribbons, lace, and flowers, waiting to be asked to dance—Kitty was never one of that throng—when she was asked for a waltz, and asked by the best partner, the first star in the hierarchy of the ballroom, a renowned director of dances, a married man, handsome and well-built, Yegorushka Korsunsky. He had only just left the Countess Bonina, with whom he had danced the first half of the waltz, and, scanning his kingdom—that is to say, a few couples who had started dancing—he caught sight of Kitty, entering, and flew up to her with that peculiar, easy amble which is confined to directors of balls. Without even asking her if she cared to dance, he put out his arm to encircle her slender waist. She looked round for someone to give her fan to, and their hostess, smiling to her, took it.
这是基蒂最美好的日子之一。她的衣服没有任何地方不舒服；她的蕾丝睡衣没有下垂到任何地方。她的玫瑰花结没有被压碎或撕掉；她那双粉色的高跟镂空拖鞋并不勒脚，反而让她的脚很舒服。浓密的金色发髻高高地盘在她的头上，就好像它们是她自己的头发一样。三个扣子都扣上了，没有撕破她那只遮住手的长手套，但也没有掩盖它的线条。她的挂坠盒上的黑色天鹅绒特别柔软地依偎在她的脖子上。那天鹅绒很好吃；回到家，基蒂看着镜子里的脖子，感觉到那天鹅绒在说话。关于其他的一切可能会有疑问，但天鹅绒很美味。当基蒂在镜子里瞥见它时，她也对着舞会微笑了。她裸露的肩膀和手臂给基蒂一种冰冷的大理石感觉，她特别喜欢这种感觉。她的眼睛闪闪发亮，红润的嘴唇因为意识到自己的魅力而忍不住微笑。她刚走进舞厅，就到了一群女士面前，她们全都是薄纱、丝带、蕾丝和鲜花，等待着被邀请跳舞——基蒂从来不是那群人中的一员——这时有人要求她跳华尔兹，并由舞者要求跳舞。叶果鲁什卡·科尔孙斯基（Yegorushka Korsunsky）是最好的舞伴、舞厅第一颗星、著名的舞蹈导演、已婚男人、英俊健美的人。他刚刚离开博尼娜伯爵夫人，与她一起跳了前半段华尔兹，扫视他的王国——也就是说，几对开始跳舞的情侣——他看到了凯蒂，进来了，然后飞走了。由她来进行那种只有舞会导演才能做到的奇特、轻松的漫步。他甚至没有问她愿不愿意跳舞，就伸出手臂环住了她的纤腰。 她环顾四周，想找人给她扇子，女主人微笑着接过扇子。

‘How nice you’ve come in good time,’ he said to her, embracing her waist; ‘such a bad habit to be late.’ Bending her left hand, she laid it on his shoulder, and her little feet in their pink slippers began swiftly, lightly, and rhythmically moving over the slippery floor in time to the music.
“你来得真及时，”他搂着她的腰对她说。 “迟到真是个坏习惯。”她弯曲左手，放在他的肩膀上，穿着粉红色拖鞋的小脚开始随着音乐在湿滑的地板上快速、轻盈、有节奏地移动。

‘It’s a rest to waltz with you,’ he said to her, as they fell into the first slow steps of the waltz. ‘It’s exquisite—such lightness, precision.’ He said to her the same thing he said to almost all his partners whom he knew well.
“和你一起跳华尔兹是一种休息，”他对她说，他们开始慢慢迈出华尔兹的第一步。 “它太精致了——如此轻盈、精确。”他对她说的和他对几乎所有他熟悉的伙伴说的一样。

She smiled at his praise, and continued to look about the room over his shoulder. She was not like a girl at her first ball, for whom all faces in the ballroom melt into one vision of fairyland. And she was not a girl who had gone the stale round of balls till every face in the ballroom was familiar and tiresome. But she was in the middle stage between these two; she was excited, and at the same time she had sufficient self-possession to be able to observe. In the left corner of the ballroom she saw the cream of society gathered together. There—incredibly naked—was the beauty Lidi, Korsunsky’s wife; there was the lady of the house; there shone the bald head of Krivin, always to be found where the best people were. In that direction gazed the young men, not venturing to approach. There, too, she descried Stiva, and there she saw the exquisite figure and head of Anna in a black velvet gown. And he was there. Kitty had not seen him since the evening she refused Levin. With her long-sighted eyes, she knew him at once, and was even aware that he was looking at her.
她对他的赞美微笑起来，继续越过他的肩膀环视房间。她不像第一次参加舞会的女孩，舞厅里的所有面孔都融入了仙境般的景象。她也不是一个在舞会上到处转悠，直到舞厅里的每一张脸都变得熟悉而令人厌烦的女孩。但她处于两者之间的中间阶段；她很兴奋，同时也有足够的冷静去观察。在舞厅的左角，她看到社会精英聚集在一起。科尔逊斯基的妻子美丽的丽迪就在那里——令人难以置信地赤身裸体。那里有女主人。克里文的光头闪闪发亮，最优秀的人在的地方总是能找到他。少年们注视着那个方向，却不敢靠近。在那里，她也看到了斯蒂瓦，在那里她看到了身穿黑色天鹅绒长袍的安娜的精致身材和头像。他就在那里。自从那天晚上基蒂拒绝了莱文之后，就再也没有见过他。她凭借她那双远视眼，一眼就认出了他，甚至察觉到他正在看着她。

‘Another turn, eh? You’re not tired?’ said Korsunsky, a little out of breath.
‘又一个回合，嗯？你不累吗？”科尔孙斯基有点气喘吁吁地说。

‘No, thank you!’
'不，谢谢！'

‘Where shall I take you?’
“我要带你去哪里？”

‘Madame Karenina’s here, I think...take me to her.’
“我想卡列尼娜夫人在这里……带我去找她吧。”

‘Wherever you command.’
“听你指挥。”

And Korsunsky began waltzing with measured steps straight towards the group in the left corner, continually saying, ‘Pardon, mesdames, pardon, pardon, mesdames”; and steering his course through the sea of lace, tulle, and ribbon, and not disarranging a feather, he turned his partner sharply round, so that her slim ankles, in light transparent stockings, were exposed to view, and her train floated out in fan shape and covered Krivin’s knees. Korsunsky bowed, set straight his open shirt front, and gave her his arm to conduct her to Anna Arkadyevna. Kitty, flushed, took her train from Krivin’s knees, and, a little giddy, looked round, seeking Anna. Anna was not in lilac, as Kitty had so urgently wished, but in a black, low-cut, velvet gown, showing her full throat and shoulders, that looked as though carved in old ivory, and her rounded arms, with tiny, slender wrists. The whole gown was trimmed with Venetian guipure. On her head, among her black hair—her own, with no false additions—was a little wreath of pansies, and a bouquet of the same in the black ribbon of her sash among white lace. Her coiffure was not striking. All that was noticeable was the little wilful tendrils of her curly hair that would always break free about her neck and temples. Round her well-cut, strong neck was a thread of pearls.
科尔逊斯基开始迈着整齐的步伐跳华尔兹，径直走向左角的那群人，不断地说：“请原谅，女士们，请原谅，请原谅，女士们。”他在花边、薄纱和丝带的海洋中引导自己的路线，没有弄乱一根羽毛，他猛地转过身来，让她穿着浅色透明丝袜的纤细脚踝暴露在外，她的裙裾在水中飘浮。扇形覆盖克里文的膝盖。科尔逊斯基鞠了一躬，拉直敞开的衬衫前襟，伸出手臂引导她走向安娜·阿尔卡季耶芙娜。基蒂脸红了，从克里文膝盖上取下裙子，有点头晕地环顾四周，寻找安娜。安娜并没有像基蒂所迫切希望的那样穿着淡紫色的衣服，而是穿着一件黑色低胸天鹅绒长袍，露出她饱满的喉咙和肩膀，看起来就像是用古老的象牙雕刻而成的，还有她圆润的手臂，有着纤细纤细的手臂。手腕。整件礼服都用威尼斯凸花花边装饰。在她的头上，在她的黑发中——她自己的，没有任何虚假的添加——有一束三色紫罗兰的小花环，在她腰带的黑丝带和白色蕾丝之间有一束同样的花环。她的发型并不引人注目。唯一引人注目的是她卷发上任性的小卷须，它们总是在脖子和太阳穴周围挣脱开来。她轮廓分明、坚韧的脖子上挂着一串珍珠。

Kitty had been seeing Anna every day; she adored her, and had pictured her invariably in lilac. But now seeing her in black, she felt that she had not fully seen her charm. She saw her now as someone quite new and surprising to her. Now she understood that Anna could not have been in lilac, and that her charm was just that she always stood out against her attire, that her dress could never be noticeable on her. And her black dress, with its sumptuous lace, was not noticeable on her; it was only the frame, and all that was seen was she—simple, natural, elegant, and at the same time gay and eager.
基蒂每天都见到安娜。她很喜欢她，想象中的她总是穿着淡紫色的衣服。但现在看到她一身黑衣，她感觉自己还没有完全看到她的魅力。她现在认为她是一个全新的、令她惊讶的人。现在她明白了，安娜不可能穿淡紫色的衣服，她的魅力就在于她总是在她的服装中脱颖而出，她的衣服永远不会在她身上引人注目。而她的黑色连衣裙，上面有华丽的蕾丝，穿在她身上并不引人注目；只有框架，看到的只是她——简单、自然、优雅，同时又快乐、渴望。

She was standing holding herself, as always, very erect, and when Kitty drew near the group she was speaking to the master of the house, her head slightly turned towards him.
她像往常一样站着，笔直地站着，当基蒂走近这群人时，她正在和房子的主人说话，她的头微微转向他。

‘No, I don’t throw stones,’ she was saying, in answer to something, ‘though I can’t understand it,’ she went on, shrugging her shoulders, and she turned at once with a soft smile of protection towards Kitty. With a flying, feminine glance she scanned her attire, and made a movement of her head, hardly perceptible, but understood by Kitty, signifying approval of her dress and her looks. ‘You came into the room dancing,’ she added.
“不，我不会扔石头，”她在回答什么问题时说道，“虽然我听不懂，”她耸耸肩继续说道，然后立即转过身来，脸上带着一丝保护的温柔微笑。猫咪。她用一种女性化的目光飞快地扫视了一下自己的着装，然后做了一个头部的动作，虽然很难被察觉，但基蒂却能理解，这表示对她的着装和外表的认可。 “你走进房间跳舞，”她补充道。

‘This is one of my most faithful supporters,’ said Korsunsky, bowing to Anna Arkadyevna, whom he had not yet seen. ‘The princess helps to make balls happy and successful. Anna Arkadyevna, a waltz?’ he said, bending down to her.
“这是我最忠实的支持者之一，”科尔孙斯基一边向安娜·阿尔卡季耶芙娜鞠躬，一边说道，而他还没有见过她。 “公主帮助舞会变得快乐和成功。 “安娜·阿尔卡季耶芙娜，跳华尔兹吗？”他向她弯下身子说道。

‘Why, have you met?’ inquired their host.
“怎么，你们见过面吗？”主人问道。

‘Is there anyone we have not met? My wife and I are like white wolves—everyone knows us,’ answered Korsunsky. ‘A waltz, Anna Arkadyevna?’
‘还有我们没见过的人吗？我和我的妻子就像白狼——每个人都认识我们。”科孙斯基回答道。 “安娜·阿尔卡季耶芙娜，跳华尔兹吗？”

‘I don’t dance when it’s possible not to dance,’ she said.
“当可以不跳舞的时候我就不跳舞，”她说。

‘But tonight it’s impossible,’ answered Korsunsky.
“但今晚这是不可能的，”科尔孙斯基回答道。

At that instant Vronsky came up.
就在这时，渥伦斯基出现了。

‘Well, since it’s impossible tonight, let us start,’ she said, not noticing Vronsky’s bow, and she hastily put her hand on Korsunsky’s shoulder.
“好吧，既然今晚不可能，那我们就开始吧。”她说，没有注意到渥伦斯基的鞠躬，她赶紧把手放在了科尔逊斯基的肩膀上。

‘What is she vexed with him about?’ thought Kitty, discerning that Anna had intentionally not responded to Vronsky’s bow. Vronsky went up to Kitty reminding her of the first quadrille, and expressing his regret that he had not seen her all this time. Kitty gazed in admiration at Anna waltzing, and listened to him. She expected him to ask her for a waltz, but he did not, and she glanced wonderingly at him. He flushed slightly, and hurriedly asked her to waltz, but he had only just put his arm round her waist and taken the first step when the music suddenly stopped. Kitty looked into his face, which was so close to her own, and long afterwards—for several years after—that look, full of love, to which he made no response, cut her to the heart with an agony of shame.
“她在生他什么气？”基蒂想道，她发现安娜故意没有回应渥伦斯基的鞠躬。渥伦斯基走到凯蒂面前，提醒她第一首卡德里尔舞，并对自己这么久没有见到她表示遗憾。基蒂钦佩地看着跳着华尔兹的安娜，听着他的表演。她以为他会请她跳华尔兹，但他没有，她惊奇地看了他一眼。他脸色微红，急忙请她跳华尔兹，但他刚搂住她的腰迈出第一步，音乐就突然停止了。基蒂看着他的脸，那张脸与她自己的脸如此接近，很久以后——几年后——那充满爱意的眼神，他没有回应，让她感到羞愧和痛苦。

‘Pardon! pardon! Waltz! waltz!’ shouted Korsunsky from the other side of the room, and seizing the first young lady he came across he began dancing himself.
'赦免！赦免！华尔兹！华尔兹！”科尔孙斯基在房间的另一边喊道，他抓住他遇到的第一位年轻女士，开始自己跳舞。

Chapter 23
第23章

Vronsky and Kitty waltzed several times round the room. After the first waltz Kitty went to her mother, and she had hardly time to say a few words to Countess Nordston when Vronsky came up again for the first quadrille. During the quadrille nothing of any significance was said: there was disjointed talk between them of the Korsunskys, husband and wife, whom he described very amusingly, as delightful children at forty, and of the future town theater; and only once the conversation touched her to the quick, when he asked her about Levin, whether he was here, and added that he liked him so much. But Kitty did not expect much from the quadrille. She looked forward with a thrill at her heart to the mazurka. She fancied that in the mazurka everything must be decided. The fact that he did not during the quadrille ask her for the mazurka did not trouble her. She felt sure she would dance the mazurka with him as she had done at former balls, and refused five young men, saying she was engaged for the mazurka. The whole ball up to the last quadrille was for Kitty an enchanted vision of delightful colors, sounds, and motions. She only sat down when she felt too tired and begged for a rest. But as she was dancing the last quadrille with one of the tiresome young men whom she could not refuse, she chanced to be vis-a-vis with Vronsky and Anna. She had not been near Anna again since the beginning of the evening, and now again she saw her suddenly quite new and surprising. She saw in her the signs of that excitement of success she knew so well in herself; she saw that she was intoxicated with the delighted admiration she was exciting. She knew that feeling and knew its signs, and saw them in Anna; saw the quivering, flashing light in her eyes, and the smile of happiness and excitement unconsciously playing on her lips, and the deliberate grace, precision, and lightness of her movements.
渥伦斯基和基蒂在房间里跳了好几圈华尔兹。第一首华尔兹结束后，基蒂去找她母亲，她还没来得及跟诺德斯顿伯爵夫人说几句话，渥伦斯基又上来表演第一首卡德里尔舞。在方阵舞中，没有说任何有意义的话：他们之间杂乱无章地谈论着科尔孙斯基夫妇，他非常有趣地将他们描述为四十岁的可爱孩子，以及未来的城镇剧院；只有一次谈话触动了她的心，当他问她莱文的情况，他是否在这里，并补充说他非常喜欢他时。但基蒂对方阵舞并没有抱太大期望。她内心激动地期待着玛祖卡舞曲。她认为在玛祖卡舞中一切都必须决定。事实上，他在卡德里尔舞中没有向她要玛祖卡舞曲，这一事实并没有困扰她。她确信自己会像在以前的舞会上那样和他一起跳玛祖卡舞，并拒绝了五个年轻人，说她已经订婚了。整个舞会直到最后一个四边舞对凯蒂来说都是一种令人着迷的视觉，令人着迷的色彩、声音和动作。当她觉得太累并请求休息时，她才坐下来。但当她和一个她无法拒绝的令人厌烦的年轻人一起跳最后一支卡德里尔舞时，她碰巧遇到了渥伦斯基和安娜。从那天晚上开始，她就没有再靠近过安娜，而现在她再次看到她时，却突然变得陌生而令人惊讶。她在她身上看到了她自己非常熟悉的成功兴奋的迹象。她看到她陶醉在令人兴奋的钦佩之中。 她知道那种感觉，知道它的迹象，并在安娜身上看到了它们；看到她眼中闪烁着颤动的光芒，看到她嘴角不自觉地绽放出幸福和兴奋的笑容，看到她动作的从容、优雅、精确和轻盈。

‘Who?’ she asked herself. ‘All or one?’ And not assisting the harassed young man she was dancing with in the conversation, the thread of which he had lost and could not pick up again, she obeyed with external liveliness the peremptory shouts of Korsunsky starting them all into the grand rond, and then into the chaine, and at the same time she kept watch with a growing pang at her heart. ‘No, it’s not the admiration of the crowd has intoxicated her, but the adoration of one. And that one? can it be he?’ Every time he spoke to Anna the joyous light flashed into her eyes, and the smile of happiness curved her red lips. she seemed to make an effort to control herself, to try not to show these signs of delight, but they came out on her face of themselves. ‘But what of him?’ Kitty looked at him and was filled with terror. What was pictured so clearly to Kitty in the mirror of Anna’s face she saw in him. What had become of his always self-possessed resolute manner, and the carelessly serene expression of his face? Now every time he turned to her, he bent his head, as though he would have fallen at her feet, and in his eyes there was nothing but humble submission and dread. ‘I would not offend you,’ his eyes seemed every time to be saying, ‘but I want to save myself, and I don’t know how.’ On his face was a look such as Kitty had never seen before.
“谁？”她问自己。 “全部还是一个？”她没有帮助正在与她跳舞的那个被骚扰的年轻人，他已经失去了线索，无法再重新拾起，她表面上活泼地服从了科孙斯基的专横叫喊，让他们都进入了状态。大圆，然后进入连锁店，同时她心里越来越痛，一边注视着。 ‘不，让她陶醉的不是众人的仰慕，而是人们的崇拜。那一个呢？是他吗？每次他对安娜说话，她的眼里都会闪烁出喜悦的光芒，红唇上扬起幸福的微笑。她似乎在努力控制自己，尽量不表现出这些喜悦的表情，但这些喜悦的表情不自觉地表现在了她的脸上。 “但是他呢？”基蒂看着他，心中充满了恐惧。基蒂在安娜的脸上清晰地看到了她在他身上看到的东西。他一向泰然自若的坚决态度，以及漫不经心的平静表情，现在变成什么样子了？现在他每次转向她，都会低下头，仿佛要跪倒在她的脚下，眼里只有卑微的屈服和恐惧。 “我不会冒犯你，”他的眼睛似乎每次都在说，“但我想拯救自己，但我不知道如何拯救自己。”他脸上的表情是基蒂以前从未见过的。

They were speaking of common acquaintances, keeping up the most trivial conversation, but to Kitty it seemed that every word they said was determining their fate and hers. And strange it was that they were actually talking of how absurd Ivan Ivanovitch was with his French, and how the Eletsky girl might have made a better match, yet these words had all the while consequence for them, and they were feeling just as Kitty did. The whole ball, the whole world, everything seemed lost in fog in Kitty’s soul. Nothing but the stern discipline of her bringing-up supported her and forced her to do what was expected of her, that is, to dance, to answer questions, to talk, even to smile. But before the mazurka, when they were beginning to rearrange the chairs and a few couples moved out of the smaller rooms into the big room, a moment of despair and horror came for Kitty. She had refused five partners, and now she was not dancing the mazurka. She had not even a hope of being asked for it, because she was so successful in society that the idea would never occur to anyone that she had remained disengaged till now. She would have to tell her mother she felt ill and go home, but she had not the strength to do this. She felt crushed. She went to the furthest end of the little drawing room and sank into a low chair. Her light, transparent skirts rose like a cloud about her slender waist; one bare, thin, soft, girlish arm, hanging listlessly, was lost in the folds of her pink tunic; in the other she held her fan, and with rapid, short strokes fanned her burning face. But while she looked like a butterfly, clinging to a blade of grass, and just about to open its rainbow wings for fresh flight, her heart ached with a horrible despair.
他们谈论着共同的熟人，进行着最琐碎的谈话，但对基蒂来说，他们所说的每一句话似乎都决定着他们和她的命运。奇怪的是，他们实际上正在谈论伊万·伊万诺维奇的法语是多么荒谬，以及叶列茨基女孩如何能够成为更好的匹配，但这些话对他们来说一直都有影响，他们的感觉就像基蒂一样。整个舞会，整个世界，一切都在凯蒂的灵魂中迷失在迷雾之中。除了她成长过程中的严格纪律支撑着她，迫使她做别人期望她做的事，那就是跳舞、回答问题、说话，甚至微笑。但在玛祖卡舞开始之前，当他们开始重新布置椅子，几对情侣从小房间搬到大房间时，基蒂感到了绝望和恐惧。她拒绝了五个舞伴，现在她不再跳玛祖卡舞了。她甚至不希望有人提出这样的要求，因为她在社会上如此成功，任何人都不会想到她至今仍保持游离状态。她必须告诉母亲她感觉不舒服并回家，但她没有力气这么做。她感到心碎了。她走到小客厅的最远端，一屁股坐在一张矮椅子上。轻薄透明的裙子如云一般升起，围在她纤细的腰间。一只光秃秃的、瘦弱的、柔软的、少女般的手臂无精打采地垂在她粉红色外衣的褶皱里；另一只手里拿着扇子，快速而短促地扇动着她烧灼的脸。但当她看起来像一只蝴蝶，紧贴在一片草叶上，正要张开彩虹翅膀进行新的飞翔时，她的心却因可怕的绝望而疼痛。

‘But perhaps I am wrong, perhaps it was not so?’ And again she recalled all she had seen.
“但也许我错了，也许事实并非如此？”她再次回忆起她所看到的一切。

‘Kitty, what is it?’ said Countess Nordston, stepping noiselessly over the carpet towards her. ‘I don’t understand it.’
“基蒂，这是什么？”诺德斯顿伯爵夫人悄无声息地走过地毯朝她走来。 “我不明白。”

Kitty’s lower lip began to quiver; she got up quickly.
凯蒂的下唇开始颤抖。她很快就站了起来。

‘Kitty, you’re not dancing the mazurka?’
“基蒂，你不跳玛祖卡舞吗？”

‘No, no,’ said Kitty in a voice shaking with tears.
“不，不，”基蒂的声音颤抖着，泪流满面。

‘He asked her for the mazurka before me,’ said Countess Nordston, knowing Kitty would understand who were ‘he’ and ‘her.’ ‘She said: ‘Why, aren’t you going to dance it with Princess Shtcherbatskaya?’’
“他在我之前向她要了玛祖卡舞，”诺德斯顿伯爵夫人说道，她知道基蒂会明白“他”和“她”是谁。“她说：‘为什么，你不打算和谢尔巴茨卡娅公主一起跳这支舞吗？’”

‘Oh, I don’t care!’ answered Kitty.
“哦，我不在乎！”基蒂回答道。

No one but she herself understood her position; no one knew that she had just refused the man whom perhaps she loved, and refused him because she had put her faith in another.
除了她自己，没有人理解她的立场；没有人知道，她刚刚拒绝了也许她所爱的男人，拒绝他是因为她信任了另一个人。

Countess Nordston found Korsunsky, with whom she was to dance the mazurka, and told him to ask Kitty.
诺德斯顿伯爵夫人找到了要和她一起跳玛祖卡舞的科尔孙斯基，并让他去问基蒂。

Kitty danced in the first couple, and luckily for her she had not to talk, because Korsunsky was all the time running about directing the figure. Vronsky and Anna sat almost opposite her. She saw them with her long-sighted eyes, and saw them, too, close by, when they met in the figures, and the more she saw of them the more convinced was she that her unhappiness was complete. She saw that they felt themselves alone in that crowded room. And on Vronsky’s face, always so firm and independent, she saw that look that had struck her, of bewilderment and humble submissiveness, like the expression of an intelligent dog when it has done wrong.
基蒂在第一对舞者中跳舞，幸运的是她没有说话，因为科孙斯基一直在跑来跑去指挥这个人物。渥伦斯基和安娜几乎坐在她对面。她用她那双远视的眼睛看到了他们，当他们在人物中相遇时，她也看到了他们，就在很近的地方，她看得越多，就越确信她的不幸已经彻底结束了。她发现他们在这个拥挤的房间里感到孤独。在渥伦斯基总是那么坚定和独立的脸上，她看到了令她震惊的表情，困惑和谦卑的顺从，就像一只聪明的狗做错事时的表情。

Anna smiled, and her smile was reflected by him. She grew thoughtful, and he became serious. Some supernatural force drew Kitty’s eyes to Anna’s face. She was fascinating in her simple black dress, fascinating were her round arms with their bracelets, fascinating was her firm neck with its thread of pearls, fascinating the straying curls of her loose hair, fascinating the graceful, light movements of her little feet and hands, fascinating was that lovely face in its eagerness, but there was something terrible and cruel in her fascination.
安娜笑了，她的笑容也映在了他的身上。她变得若有所思，他变得严肃起来。某种超自然的力量将基蒂的目光吸引到安娜的脸上。她那朴素的黑裙令人着迷，她戴着手镯的圆臂令人着迷，她那带着珍珠线的坚挺脖子令人着迷，她那披散的头发飘逸的卷发令人着迷，她小脚小手优雅轻盈的动作令人着迷。那张可爱的脸庞中充满着渴望，令人着迷，但她的迷恋中却有一种可怕而残酷的东西。

Kitty admired her more than ever, and more and more acute was her suffering. Kitty felt overwhelmed, and her face showed it. When Vronsky saw her, coming across her in the mazurka, he did not at once recognize her, she was so changed.
基蒂比以往任何时候都更加钦佩她，而她的痛苦也越来越严重。基蒂感到不知所措，她的表情表明了这一点。当渥伦斯基在玛祖卡舞中遇见她时，他没有立即认出她，她已经变了很多。

‘Delightful ball!’ he said to her, for the sake of saying something.
“令人愉快的舞会！”他对她说，是为了说些什么。

‘Yes,’ she answered.
“是的，”她回答。

In the middle of the mazurka, repeating a complicated figure, newly invented by Korsunsky, Anna came forward into the center of the circle, chose two gentlemen, and summoned a lady and Kitty. Kitty gazed at her in dismay as she went up. Anna looked at her with drooping eyelids, and smiled, pressing her hand. But, noticing that Kitty only responded to her smile by a look of despair and amazement, she turned away from her, and began gaily talking to the other lady.
在玛祖卡舞曲中间，安娜重复着科尔逊斯基新发明的一个复杂的图形，走到圆圈中央，选择了两位绅士，并召唤了一位女士和凯蒂。当她上楼时，凯蒂沮丧地看着她。安娜垂着眼皮看着她，微笑着握住了她的手。但是，注意到基蒂只用绝望和惊讶的表情回应她的微笑，她转过身去，开始与另一位女士愉快地交谈。

‘Yes, there is something uncanny, devilish and fascinating in her,’ Kitty said to herself.
“是的，她身上有一种不可思议、邪恶和迷人的东西，”基蒂对自己说。

Anna did not mean to stay to supper, but the master of the house began to press her to do so.
安娜本不想留下来吃晚饭，但主人却开始催促她留下来。

‘Nonsense, Anna Arkadyevna,’ said Korsunsky, drawing her bare arm under the sleeve of his dress coat, ‘I’ve such an idea for a cotillion! Un bijou!’
“胡说，安娜·阿尔卡季耶芙娜，”科尔孙斯基一边说，一边把她裸露的手臂伸进礼服的袖子里，“我对舞会有这样的想法！”一件珠宝！’

And he moved gradually on, trying to draw her along with him. Their host smiled approvingly.
他慢慢地向前走，试图拉着她一起走。他们的主人赞许地微笑着。

‘No, I am not going to stay,’ answered Anna, smiling, but in spite of her smile, both Korsunsky and the master of the house saw from her resolute tone that she would not stay.
“不，我不会留下来，”安娜微笑着回答，但尽管她微笑着，科尔逊斯基和主人都从她坚决的语气中看出她不会留下来。

‘No; why, as it is, I have danced more at your ball in Moscow than I have all the winter in Petersburg,’ said Anna, looking round at Vronsky, who stood near her. ‘I must rest a little before my journey.’
'不; “为什么，事实上，我在莫斯科你的舞会上跳舞的次数比我整个冬天在彼得堡跳舞的次数还要多。”安娜说着，回头看了一眼站在她身边的渥伦斯基。 “出发前我必须休息一下。”

‘Are you certainly going tomorrow then?’ asked Vronsky.
“那你明天肯定去吗？”渥伦斯基问道。

‘Yes, I suppose so,’ answered Anna, as it were wondering at the boldness of his question; but the irrepressible, quivering brilliance of her eyes and her smile set him on fire as she said it.
“是的，我想是的，”安娜回答道，她对他的大胆问题感到惊讶。但当她说这句话的时候，她的眼睛里抑制不住的、颤抖的光芒和她的微笑让他着火了。

Anna Arkadyevna did not stay to supper, but went home.
安娜·阿尔卡季耶夫娜没有留下来吃晚饭，而是回家了。

Chapter 24
第24章

‘Yes, there is something in me hateful, repulsive,’ thought Levin, as he came away from the Shtcherbatskys’, and walked in the direction of his brother’s lodgings. ‘And I don’t get on with other people. Pride, they say. No, I have no pride. If I had any pride, I should not have put myself in such a position.’ And he pictured to himself Vronsky, happy, good-natured, clever, and self-possessed, certainly never placed in the awful position in which he had been that evening. ‘Yes, she was bound to choose him. So it had to be, and I cannot complain of anyone or anything. I am myself to blame. What right had I to imagine she would care to join her life to mine? Who am I and what am I? A nobody, not wanted by any one, nor of use to anybody.’ And he recalled his brother Nikolay, and dwelt with pleasure on the thought of him. ‘Isn’t he right that everything in the world is base and loathsome? And are we fair in our judgment of brother Nikolay? Of course, from the point of view of Prokofy, seeing him in a torn cloak and tipsy, he’s a despicable person. But I know him differently. I know his soul, and know that we are like him. And I, instead of going to seek him out, went out to dinner, and came here.’ Levin walked up to a lamppost, read his brother’s address, which was in his pocketbook, and called a sledge. All the long way to his brother’s, Levin vividly recalled all the facts familiar to him of his brother Nikolay’s life. He remembered how his brother, while at the university, and for a year afterwards, had, in spite of the jeers of his companions, lived like a monk, strictly observing all religious rites, services, and fasts, and avoiding every sort of pleasure, especially women. And afterwards, how he had all at once broken out: he had associated with the most horrible people, and rushed into the most senseless debauchery. He remembered later the scandal over a boy, whom he had taken from the country to bring up, and, in a fit of rage, had so violently beaten that proceedings were brought against him for unlawfully wounding. Then he recalled the scandal with a sharper, to whom he had lost money, and given a promissory note, and against whom he had himself lodged a complaint, asserting that he had cheated him. (This was the money Sergey Ivanovitch had paid.) Then he remembered how he had spent a night in the lockup for disorderly conduct in the street. He remembered the shameful proceedings he had tried to get up against his brother Sergey Ivanovitch, accusing him of not having paid him his share of his mother’s fortune, and the last scandal, when he had gone to a western province in an official capacity, and there had got into trouble for assaulting a village elder.... It was all horribly disgusting, yet to Levin it appeared not at all in the same disgusting light as it inevitably would to those who did not know Nikolay, did not know all his story, did not know his heart.
“是的，我身上有一种可恨的、令人厌恶的东西，”列文一边想，一边离开谢尔巴茨基家，朝他哥哥住处的方向走去。 “而且我和其他人合不来。他们说，骄傲。不，我没有骄傲。如果我有一点骄傲的话，我就不会把自己置于这样的境地。”他在心里想象着渥伦斯基，快乐、善良、聪明、沉着，当然他从来没有陷入过如此可怕的境地。那天晚上。 ‘是的，她一定会选择他。所以事情必须如此，我不能抱怨任何人或任何事。都怪我自己。我有什么权利想象她愿意将她的生活融入我的生活？我是谁，我是什么？一个无名小卒，不被任何人需要，也不对任何人有用。”他想起了他的兄弟尼古拉，并高兴地想到他。 ‘世界上的一切都是卑鄙可憎的，这不是对的吗？我们对尼古拉弟兄的判断公平吗？当然，从普罗科菲的角度来看，看到他披着撕破的斗篷，喝得醉醺醺的，他就是一个卑鄙的人。但我对他的认识不同。我了解他的灵魂，也知道我们和他一样。我没有去找他，而是出去吃晚饭，然后来到这里。”莱文走到一根路灯柱前，读了他钱包里他哥哥的地址，然后叫了一辆雪橇。在去哥哥家的路上，列文生动地回忆起他哥哥尼古拉一生中所熟悉的所有事实。他记得他的哥哥在大学期间以及大学毕业后的一年里，如何不顾同伴的嘲笑，像僧侣一样生活，严格遵守所有宗教仪式、仪式和斋戒，避免各种享乐。 ，尤其是女性。 后来，他突然爆发了：与最可怕的人交往，闯入最无意义的放荡。后来他想起了有关他从乡下带大的一个男孩的丑闻，他在盛怒之下对他进行了猛烈殴打，以至于以非法伤害罪对他提起诉讼。然后他回忆起与一个骗子的丑闻，他给他赔了钱，并给了一张期票，他自己向他提出了投诉，声称他欺骗了他。 （这是谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇付的钱。） 然后他记起了自己因在街上扰乱公共秩序而在看守所里度过了一夜的情景。他记得他曾试图对他的兄弟谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇发起可耻的诉讼，指责他没有向他支付他母亲的那份财产，以及最后一次丑闻，当时他以官方身份去了西部一个省份，并且因袭击一位村长而陷入麻烦……这一切都非常令人厌恶，但对莱文来说，这根本不像那些不认识尼古拉、不了解他的一切的人不可避免地会出现的那样令人厌恶。故事，不知道他的心。

Levin remembered that when Nikolay had been in the devout stage, the period of fasts and monks and church services, when he was seeking in religion a support and a curb for his passionate temperament, everyone, far from encouraging him, had jeered at him, and he, too, with the others. They had teased him, called him Noah and Monk; and, when he had broken out, no one had helped him, but everyone had turned away from him with horror and disgust.
列文记得，当尼古拉正处于虔诚的阶段，斋戒、僧侣和教堂礼拜的时期，当他在宗教中寻求对他热情的性情的支持和遏制时，每个人非但没有鼓励他，反而嘲笑他，他也和其他人一样。他们取笑他，称他为诺亚和蒙克；当他爆发时，没有人帮助他，但每个人都带着恐惧和厌恶转离他。

Levin felt that, in spite of all the ugliness of his life, his brother Nikolay, in his soul, in the very depths of his soul, was no more in the wrong than the people who despised him. He was not to blame for having been born with his unbridled temperament and his somehow limited intelligence. But he had always wanted to be good. ‘I will tell him everything, without reserve, and I will make him speak without reserve, too, and I’ll show him that I love him, and so understand him,’ Levin resolved to himself, as, towards eleven o’clock, he reached the hotel of which he had the address.
莱文觉得，尽管他的一生丑陋不堪，但他的兄弟尼古拉在他的灵魂里，在他灵魂的最深处，与那些鄙视他的人一样，没有什么过错。他生来就具有放肆的性情和某种程度上有限的智力，这并不能怪他。但他一直想做个好人。 “我会毫无保留地告诉他一切，我也会让他毫无保留地说话，我会让他知道我爱他，所以理解他，”列文对自己下定决心，快到十一点的时候，他到达了他知道地址的旅馆。

‘At the top, 12 and 13,’ the porter answered Levin’s inquiry.
“在最上面，12号和13号，”搬运工回答了莱文的询问。

‘At home?’
'在家里？'

‘Sure to be at home.’
“肯定在家。”

The door of No. 12 was half open, and there came out into the streak of light thick fumes of cheap, poor tobacco, and the sound of a voice, unknown to Levin; but he knew at once that his brother was there; he heard his cough.
12号的门半开着，一股廉价劣质烟草的浓烟从光线中飘了出来，还有莱文不知道的声音。但他立刻就知道他的兄弟就在那里。他听到了咳嗽声。

As he went in the door, the unknown voice was saying:
刚一进门，就听见陌生的声音说道：

‘It all depends with how much judgment and knowledge the thing’s done.’
“这完全取决于所做的事情有多少判断力和知识。”

Konstantin Levin looked in at the door, and saw that the speaker was a young man with an immense shock of hair, wearing a Russian jerkin, and that a pockmarked woman in a woolen gown, without collar or cuffs, was sitting on the sofa. His brother was not to be seen. Konstantin felt a sharp pang at his heart at the thought of the strange company in which his brother spent his life. No one had heard him, and Konstantin, taking off his galoshes, listened to what the gentleman in the jerkin was saying. He was speaking of some enterprise.
康斯坦丁·莱文向门口望去，发现说话的是一个头发蓬乱、穿着俄罗斯背心的年轻人，沙发上坐着一个穿着无领无袖毛呢长袍的麻子女人。他的兄弟不见了。康斯坦丁一想到他哥哥一生都在这个奇怪的陪伴下度过，他的心就感到一阵剧痛。没有人听到他说话，康斯坦丁脱下套鞋，听着那位穿背心的绅士在说什么。他说的是一些企业。

‘Well, the devil flay them, the privileged classes,’ his brother’s voice responded, with a cough. ‘Masha! get us some supper and some wine if there’s any left; or else go and get some.’
“好吧，魔鬼剥了他们的皮，特权阶级，”他哥哥的声音带着咳嗽声回答道。 ‘玛莎！如果还有的话，请给我们一些晚餐和酒；或者去拿一些。

The woman rose, came out from behind the screen, and saw Konstantin.
女人站起身来，从屏风后面走出来，看到了康斯坦丁。

‘There’s some gentleman, Nikolay Dmitrievitch,’ she said.
“有一位绅士，尼古拉·德米特里耶维奇，”她说。

‘Whom do you want?’ said the voice of Nikolay Levin, angrily.
“你想要谁？”尼古拉·莱文的声音愤怒地说。

‘It’s I,’ answered Konstantin Levin, coming forward into the light.
“是我，”康斯坦丁·莱文回答道，走到了光亮中。

‘Who’s I?’ Nikolay’s voice said again, still more angrily. He could be heard getting up hurriedly, stumbling against something, and Levin saw, facing him in the doorway, the big, scared eyes, and the huge, thin, stooping figure of his brother, so familiar, and yet astonishing in its weirdness and sickliness.
“我是谁？”尼古拉的声音再次响起，更加愤怒了。可以听到他急忙站起来，绊倒在什么东西上，莱文在门口看到他面对着他，那双充满恐惧的大眼睛，还有他哥哥巨大、瘦弱、弯腰的身材，如此熟悉，但其怪异和令人惊讶。病态。

He was even thinner than three years before, when Konstantin Levin had seen him last. He was wearing a short coat, and his hands and big bones seemed huger than ever. His hair had grown thinner, the same straight mustaches hid his lips, the same eyes gazed strangely and naively at his visitor.
他比三年前康斯坦丁·莱文最后一次见到他时还要瘦。他穿着短外套，双手和大骨头都显得比以前更大了。他的头发变得稀疏了，同样笔直的胡须遮住了他的嘴唇，同样的眼睛奇怪而天真地凝视着他的访客。

‘Ah, Kostya!’ he exclaimed suddenly, recognizing his brother, and his eyes lit up with joy. But the same second he looked round at the young man, and gave the nervous jerk of his head and neck that Konstantin knew so well, as if his neckband hurt him; and a quite different expression, wild, suffering, and cruel, rested on his emaciated face.
“啊，克斯特亚！”他突然喊道，认出了他的兄弟，他的眼睛里闪烁着喜悦的光芒。但就在同一时刻，他回头看了看年轻人，康斯坦丁非常熟悉他的头和脖子，紧张地抽动了一下，好像他的颈带伤害了他；他憔悴的脸上露出了一种截然不同的表情，狂野、痛苦、残酷。

‘I wrote to you and Sergey Ivanovitch both that I don’t know you and don’t want to know you. What is it you want?’
“我写信给你和谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇，说我不认识你们，也不想认识你们。你想要什么？

He was not at all the same as Konstantin had been fancying him. The worst and most tiresome part of his character, what made all relations with him so difficult, had been forgotten by Konstantin Levin when he thought of him, and now, when he saw his face, and especially that nervous twitching of his head, he remembered it all.
他与康斯坦丁想象中的他完全不一样。当康斯坦丁·莱文想起他时，他性格中最糟糕、最令人厌烦的部分，是什么让我们与他的关系变得如此困难，已经被康斯坦丁·莱文忘记了，现在，当他看到他的脸，尤其是他的头紧张地抽动时，他都记住了。

‘I didn’t want to see you for anything,’ he answered timidly. ‘I’ve simply come to see you.’
“我不想见你。”他胆怯地回答。 “我只是来看你的。”

His brother’s timidity obviously softened Nikolay. His lips twitched.
弟弟的胆怯显然让尼古拉心软了。他的嘴唇抽动着。

‘Oh, so that’s it?’ he said. ‘Well, come in; sit down. Like some supper? Masha, bring supper for three. No, stop a minute. Do you know who this is?’ he said, addressing his brother, and indicating the gentleman in the jerkin: ‘This is Mr. Kritsky, my friend from Kiev, a very remarkable man. He’s persecuted by the police, of course, because he’s not a scoundrel.’
“哦，是这样吗？”他说。 ‘好吧，进来吧；坐下。喜欢吃晚饭吗？玛莎，给三个人准备晚餐。不，停下来一分钟。你知道这是谁吗？”他对他的兄弟说道，并指着穿背心的绅士：“这是克里茨基先生，我来自基辅的朋友，一个非常了不起的人。当然，他受到警察的迫害，因为他不是恶棍。”

And he looked round in the way he always did at everyone in the room. Seeing that the woman standing in the doorway was moving to go, he shouted to her, ‘Wait a minute, I said.’ And with the inability to express himself, the incoherence that Konstantin knew so well, he began, with another look round at everyone, to tell his brother Kritsky’s story: how he had been expelled from the university for starting a benefit society for the poor students and Sunday schools; and how he had afterwards been a teacher in a peasant school, and how he had been driven out of that too, and had afterwards been condemned for something.
他环顾四周，就像他一贯对待房间里每个人的方式一样。看到站在门口的那个女人正要走，他对她喊道：“等一下，我说。”由于无法表达自己的意思，康斯坦丁非常清楚这种语无伦次的情况，他又环顾四周，开始说话。向每个人讲述他弟弟克里茨基的故事：他是如何因为为贫困学生创办福利协会和主日学校而被大学开除的；以及他后来如何在一所农民学校当老师，又如何被赶出学校，后来又因某事受到谴责。

‘You’re of the Kiev university?’ said Konstantin Levin to Kritsky, to break the awkward silence that followed.
“你是基辅大学的？”康斯坦丁·莱文对克里茨基说道，打破了随后尴尬的沉默。

‘Yes, I was of Kiev,’ Kritsky replied angrily, his face darkening.
“是的，我是基辅人，”克里茨基愤怒地回答，脸色阴沉下来。

‘And this woman,’ Nikolay Levin interrupted him, pointing to her, ‘is the partner of my life, Marya Nikolaevna. I took her out of a bad house,’ and he jerked his neck saying this; ‘but I love her and respect her, and any one who wants to know me,’ he added, raising his voice and knitting his brows, ‘I beg to love her and respect her. She’s just the same as my wife, just the same. So now you know whom you’ve to do with. And if you think you’re lowering yourself, well, here’s the floor, there’s the door.’
“这个女人，”尼古拉·莱文指着她打断了他的话，“是我一生的伴侣，玛丽亚·尼古拉耶夫娜。”我把她从一所破房子里带了出来。”他猛地扬起脖子说道。 “但我爱她并尊重她，以及任何想了解我的人，”他提高声音并皱起眉头补充道，“我恳求爱她并尊重她。”她和我妻子一样，一模一样。所以现在你知道你要和谁打交道了。如果你认为你在贬低自己，那么，这里是地板，那里是门。

And again his eyes traveled inquiringly over all of them.
他的目光再次好奇地扫过所有人。

‘Why I should be lowering myself, I don’t understand.’
“我不明白为什么我要贬低自己。”

‘Then, Masha, tell them to bring supper; three portions, spirits and wine.... No, wait a minute.... No, it doesn’t matter.... Go along.’
“那么，玛莎，请他们带晚饭过来；三份，烈酒和葡萄酒……不，等一下……不，没关系……继续吧。

Chapter 25
第25章

‘So you see,’ pursued Nikolay Levin, painfully wrinkling his forehead and twitching.
“所以你看，”尼古拉·莱文继续说道，他的额头痛苦地皱起，抽搐着。

It was obviously difficult for him to think of what to say and do.
显然他很难想出该说什么、该做什么。

‘Here, do you see?’... He pointed to some sort of iron bars, fastened together with strings, lying in a corner of the room. ‘Do you see that? That’s the beginning of a new thing we’re going into. It’s a productive association...’
“这里，你看到了吗？”……他指着房间一角的某种铁棍，用绳子系在一起。 ‘你看到了吗？这是我们即将进入的新事物的开始。这是一个富有成效的协会......”

Konstantin scarcely heard him. He looked into his sickly, consumptive face, and he was more and more sorry for him, and he could not force himself to listen to what his brother was telling him about the association. He saw that this association was a mere anchor to save him from self-contempt. Nikolay Levin went on talking:
康斯坦丁几乎没有听见他的话。他看着他那病怏怏的、痨病的脸，他越来越同情他，他无法强迫自己听他哥哥正在告诉他关于协会的事。他认为这种联系只是一个让他免于自卑的锚。尼古拉·莱文继续说道：

‘You know that capital oppresses the laborer. The laborers with us, the peasants, bear all the burden of labor, and are so placed that however much they work they can’t escape from their position of beasts of burden. All the profits of labor, on which they might improve their position, and gain leisure for themselves, and after that education, all the surplus values are taken from them by the capitalists. And society’s so constituted that the harder they work, the greater the profit of the merchants and landowners, while they stay beasts of burden to the end. And that state of things must be changed,’ he finished up, and he looked questioningly at his brother.
‘你知道资本压迫劳动者。我们的劳动者农民，承担着一切劳动的重担，无论怎样劳动，也摆脱不了驮畜的地位。所有的劳动利润，他们可以通过这些利润来提高自己的地位，为自己赢得闲暇，并且在接受教育之后，所有的剩余价值都被资本家从他们身上夺走了。社会的构成是，商人和地主工作越努力，他们的利润就越大，而他们却始终是负重的野兽。这种状况必须改变。”他说完，疑惑地看着他的兄弟。

‘Yes, of course,’ said Konstantin, looking at the patch of red that had come out on his brother’s projecting cheek bones.
“是的，当然，”康斯坦丁说道，看着他哥哥突出的颧骨上出现的一块红色。

‘And so we’re founding a locksmiths’ association, where all the production and profit and the chief instruments of production will be in common.’
“所以我们正在建立一个锁匠协会，所有的生产和利润以及主要生产工具都将是共同的。”

‘Where is the association to be?’ asked Konstantin Levin.
“协会在哪里？”康斯坦丁·莱文问道。

‘In the village of Vozdrem, Kazan government.’
“喀山政府沃兹德雷姆村。”

‘But why in a village? In the villages, I think, there is plenty of work as it is. Why a locksmiths’ association in a village?’
“可是为什么是在村子里呢？我认为，在村庄里，确实有很多工作。为什么要在村里设立锁匠协会？

‘Why? Because the peasants are just as much slaves as they ever were, and that’s why you and Sergey Ivanovitch don’t like people to try and get them out of their slavery,’ said Nikolay Levin, exasperated by the objection.
'为什么？因为农民和以前一样是奴隶，这就是为什么你和谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇不喜欢人们试图让他们摆脱奴隶制。”尼古拉·莱文对这种反对意见感到愤怒。

Konstantin Levin sighed, looking meanwhile about the cheerless and dirty room. This sigh seemed to exasperate Nikolay still more.
康斯坦丁·莱文叹了口气，同时环视着这间冷清而肮脏的房间。这一声叹息似乎更加激怒了尼古拉。

‘I know your and Sergey Ivanovitch’s aristocratic views. I know that he applies all the power of his intellect to justify existing evils.’
“我知道你和谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇的贵族观点。我知道他运用自己所有的智慧来为现有的罪恶辩护。

‘No; and what do you talk of Sergey Ivanovitch for?’ said Levin, smiling.
'不; “你为什么要谈论谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇呢？”列文微笑着说道。

‘Sergey Ivanovitch? I’ll tell you what for!’ Nikolay Levin shrieked suddenly at the name of Sergey Ivanovitch. ‘I’ll tell you what for.... But what’s the use of talking? There’s only one thing.... What did you come to me for? You look down on this, and you’re welcome to,—and go away, in God’s name go away!’ he shrieked, getting up from his chair. ‘And go away, and go away!’
“谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇？我来告诉你这是为什么！”尼古拉·莱文一听到谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇的名字就突然尖叫起来。 ‘我会告诉你为什么……但是说话有什么用呢？只有一件事……你来找我做什么？你看不起这个，欢迎你——走开，以上帝的名义走开！”他尖叫着从椅子上站起来。 “走开，走开！”

‘I don’t look down on it at all,’ said Konstantin Levin timidly. ‘I don’t even dispute it.’
“我一点也不看不起它，”康斯坦丁·莱文胆怯地说。 “我什至不争论这一点。”

At that instant Marya Nikolaevna came back. Nikolay Levin looked round angrily at her. She went quickly to him, and whispered something.
就在这时，玛丽亚·尼古拉耶芙娜回来了。尼古拉·莱文愤怒地回头看着她。她快步走到他身边，低声说了些什么。

‘I’m not well; I’ve grown irritable,’ said Nikolay Levin, getting calmer and breathing painfully; ‘and then you talk to me of Sergey Ivanovitch and his article. It’s such rubbish, such lying, such self-deception. What can a man write of justice who knows nothing of it? Have you read his article?’ he asked Kritsky, sitting down again at the table, and moving back off half of it the scattered cigarettes, so as to clear a space.
'我不是很好; “我变得烦躁了，”尼古拉·莱文说，他的情绪逐渐平静下来，呼吸也变得痛苦起来。 “然后你跟我谈论谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇和他的文章。这是多么垃圾、多么谎言、多么自欺欺人。一个对正义一无所知的人能写出什么关于正义的文章呢？你读过他的文章吗？”他问克里茨基，然后又在桌边坐下，把散落的香烟移开一半，以便腾出一个空间。

‘I’ve not read it,’ Kritsky responded gloomily, obviously not desiring to enter into the conversation.
“我还没读过。”克里茨基阴郁地回答，显然不想参与谈话。

‘Why not?’ said Nikolay Levin, now turning with exasperation upon Kritsky.
“为什么不呢？”尼古拉·莱文说道，现在他愤怒地转向克里茨基。

‘Because I didn’t see the use of wasting my time over it.’
“因为我看不出在这上面浪费时间有什么用。”

‘Oh, but excuse me, how did you know it would be wasting your time? That article’s too deep for many people—that’s to say it’s over their heads. But with me, it’s another thing; I see through his ideas, and I know where its weakness lies.’
“哦，但是对不起，你怎么知道这会浪费你的时间？这篇文章对很多人来说太深奥了——也就是说，这超出了他们的理解范围。但对我来说，那就是另一回事了。我看透了他的想法，我知道它的弱点在哪里。

Everyone was mute. Kritsky got up deliberately and reached his cap.
大家都沉默了。克里茨基故意站起来，伸手去拿帽子。

‘Won’t you have supper? All right, good-bye! Come round tomorrow with the locksmith.’
‘你不吃晚饭吗？好吧，再见！明天和锁匠一起过来。”

Kritsky had hardly gone out when Nikolay Levin smiled and winked.
克里茨基刚出门，尼古拉·莱文就微笑着眨了眨眼。

‘He’s no good either,’ he said. ‘I see, of course...’
他说：“他也不好。” “我明白了，当然……”

But at that instant Kritsky, at the door, called him...
但就在那时，克里茨基在门口打电话给他……

‘What do you want now?’ he said, and went out to him in the passage. Left alone with Marya Nikolaevna, Levin turned to her.
“你现在想要什么？”他说，然后走到过道里去找他。列文只剩下玛丽亚·尼古拉耶夫娜和她在一起。

‘Have you been long with my brother?’ he said to her.
“你和我哥哥在一起很久了吗？”他对她说。

‘Yes, more than a year. Nikolay Dmitrievitch’s health has become very poor. Nikolay Dmitrievitch drinks a great deal,’ she said.
‘是的，一年多了。尼古拉·德米特里耶维奇的健康状况非常糟糕。尼古拉·德米特里耶维奇喝了很多酒，”她说。

‘That is...how does he drink?’
“那是……他怎么喝酒？”

‘Drinks vodka, and it’s bad for him.’
“喝伏特加，这对他不好。”

‘And a great deal?’ whispered Levin.
“还有很多吗？”莱文低声问道。

‘Yes,’ she said, looking timidly towards the doorway, where Nikolay Levin had reappeared.
“是的，”她说，胆怯地看着门口，尼古拉·莱文再次出现在那里。

‘What were you talking about?’ he said, knitting his brows, and turning his scared eyes from one to the other. ‘What was it?’
“你们在说什么？”他皱起眉头，惊恐的目光从一只转向另一只。 '它以前如何？'

‘Oh, nothing,’ Konstantin answered in confusion.
“哦，没什么，”康斯坦丁困惑地回答。

‘Oh, if you don’t want to say, don’t. Only it’s no good your talking to her. She’s a wench, and you’re a gentleman,’ he said with a jerk of the neck. ‘You understand everything, I see, and have taken stock of everything, and look with commiseration on my shortcomings,’ he began again, raising his voice.
‘哦，既然你不想说，那就别说。只是你跟她说话没有好处。她是个姑娘，而你是个绅士，”他脖子一抖说道。 “我看，你什么都明白，也已经评估了一切，并且对我的缺点表示同情。”他又提高了声音说道。

‘Nikolay Dmitrievitch, Nikolay Dmitrievitch,’ whispered Marya Nikolaevna, again going up to him.
“尼古拉·德米特里耶维奇，尼古拉·德米特里耶维奇。”玛丽亚·尼古拉耶芙娜再次走到他面前低声说道。

‘Oh, very well, very well!... But where’s the supper? Ah, here it is,’ he said, seeing a waiter with a tray. ‘Here, set it here,’ he added angrily, and promptly seizing the vodka, he poured out a glassful and drank it greedily. ‘Like a drink?’ he turned to his brother, and at once became better humored.
“哦，很好，很好！……但是晚饭在哪里？啊，在这儿，”他看到一名端着托盘的服务员说道。 “这里，放在这儿。”他愤怒地补充道，然后迅速抓起伏特加，倒了一杯，贪婪地喝了下去。 “想喝一杯吗？”他转向他的兄弟，立刻心情变得更好了。

‘Well, enough of Sergey Ivanovitch. I’m glad to see you, anyway. After all’s said and done, we’re not strangers. Come, have a drink. Tell me what you’re doing,’ he went on, greedily munching a piece of bread, and pouring out another glassful. ‘How are you living?’
“好吧，谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇已经说够了。无论如何，我很高兴见到你。说到底，我们并不陌生。来，喝一杯。告诉我你在做什么，”他继续说道，贪婪地嚼着一块面包，又倒了一杯。 “你过得怎么样？”

‘I live alone in the country, as I used to. I’m busy looking after the land,’ answered Konstantin, watching with horror the greediness with which his brother ate and drank, and trying to conceal that he noticed it.
“我像以前一样独自住在乡下。我正忙着照料这片土地，”康斯坦丁回答道，他惊恐地看着弟弟贪婪地吃喝，并试图掩饰自己注意到了这一点。

‘Why don’t you get married?’
“你为什么不结婚？”

‘It hasn’t happened so,’ Konstantin answered, reddening a little.
“事情并没有发生过，”康斯坦丁回答道，脸红了一点。

‘Why not? For me now...everything’s at an end! I’ve made a mess of my life. But this I’ve said, and I say still, that if my share had been given me when I needed it, my whole life would have been different.’
'为什么不？现在对我来说……一切都结束了！我把我的生活搞得一团糟。但我已经说过了，而且现在仍然会说，如果我在需要的时候得到了我的那一份，我的整个生活将会有所不同。

Konstantin made haste to change the conversation.
康斯坦丁赶紧改变话题。

‘Do you know your little Vanya’s with me, a clerk in the countinghouse at Pokrovskoe.’
“你知道吗，你的小万尼亚和我在一起，他是波克罗夫斯科伊会计室的一名职员。”

Nikolay jerked his neck, and sank into thought.
尼古拉伸了伸脖子，陷入了沉思。

‘Yes, tell me what’s going on at Pokrovskoe. Is the house standing still, and the birch trees, and our schoolroom? And Philip the gardener, is he living? How I remember the arbor and the seat! Now mind and don’t alter anything in the house, but make haste and get married, and make everything as it used to be again. Then I’ll come and see you, if your wife is nice.’
“是的，告诉我波克罗夫斯科发生了什么事。”房子、白桦树和我们的教室还静止不动吗？还有园丁菲利普，他还活着吗？我多么记得凉亭和座位啊！现在请注意，不要改变房子里的任何东西，而是赶快结婚，让一切恢复原样。如果你的妻子友善的话，我会来看你的。

‘But come to me now,’ said Levin. ‘How nicely we would arrange it!’
“但是现在就到我这里来吧，”莱文说。 “我们会安排得多么好啊！”

‘I’d come and see you if I were sure I should not find Sergey Ivanovitch.’
“如果我确定找不到谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇，我就会来看你。”

‘You wouldn’t find him there. I live quite independently of him.’
‘你在那里找不到他。我的生活完全独立于他。

‘Yes, but say what you like, you will have to choose between me and him,’ he said, looking timidly into his brother’s face.
“是的，但无论你怎么说，你都必须在我和他之间做出选择，”他胆怯地看着他哥哥的脸说道。

This timidity touched Konstantin.
这种胆怯触动了康斯坦丁。

‘If you want to hear my confession of faith on the subject, I tell you that in your quarrel with Sergey Ivanovitch I take neither side. You’re both wrong. You’re more wrong externally, and he inwardly.’
“如果你想听听我对这个问题的信仰告白，我告诉你，在你与谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇的争吵中，我不站在任何一边。你们都错了。你的外表错了，而他的内心错了。”

‘Ah, ah! You see that, you see that!’ Nikolay shouted joyfully.
'啊啊！你看到了，你看到了！”尼古拉高兴地喊道。

‘But I personally value friendly relations with you more because...’
“但我个人更看重与你的友好关系，因为……”

‘Why, why?’
'为什么为什么？'

Konstantin could not say that he valued it more because Nikolay was unhappy, and needed affection. But Nikolay knew that this was just what he meant to say, and scowling he took up the vodka again.
康斯坦丁不能说他更看重它，因为尼古拉不快乐，需要关爱。但尼古拉知道这正是他想说的，他皱着眉头再次拿起伏特加。

‘Enough, Nikolay Dmitrievitch!’ said Marya Nikolaevna, stretching out her plump, bare arm towards the decanter.
“够了，尼古拉·德米特里耶维奇！”玛丽亚·尼古拉耶芙娜一边说，一边向酒瓶伸出她那只肥硕、裸露的手臂。

‘Let it be! Don’t insist! I’ll beat you!’ he shouted.
'随它去！别强求！我会打败你的！”他喊道。

Marya Nikolaevna smiled a sweet and good-humored smile, which was at once reflected on Nikolay’s face, and she took the bottle.
玛丽亚·尼古拉耶夫娜露出了甜美而幽默的微笑，这种微笑立刻反映在尼古拉的脸上，她接过瓶子。

‘And do you suppose she understands nothing?’ said Nikolay. ‘She understands it all better than any of us. Isn’t it true there’s something good and sweet in her?’
“你认为她什么都不懂吗？”尼古拉说。 “她比我们任何人都更了解这一切。她身上不是真的有一些美好而甜蜜的东西吗？

‘Were you never before in Moscow?’ Konstantin said to her, for the sake of saying something.
“你以前没来过莫斯科吗？”康斯坦丁为了说点什么而对她问道。

‘Only you mustn’t be polite and stiff with her. It frightens her. No one ever spoke to her so but the justices of the peace who tried her for trying to get out of a house of ill-fame. Mercy on us, the senselessness in the world!’ he cried suddenly. ‘These new institutions, these justices of the peace, rural councils, what hideousness it all is!’
‘只是你不能对她客气生硬。这让她害怕。除了因试图逃离一所臭名昭著的房子而对她进行审判的治安法官之外，没有人对她说过这样的话。怜悯我们吧，世界上的无知之事！”他突然喊道。 “这些新机构、这些太平绅士、乡村委员会，这一切是多么可怕！”

And he began to enlarge on his encounters with the new institutions.
他开始详细讲述他与新机构的遭遇。

Konstantin Levin heard him, and the disbelief in the sense of all public institutions, which he shared with him, and often expressed, was distasteful to him now from his brother’s lips.
康斯坦丁·莱文听到了他的讲话，他与他分享并经常表达的对所有公共机构的怀疑现在从他哥哥的嘴里说出来，让他感到厌恶。

‘In another world we shall understand it all,’ he said lightly.
“在另一个世界我们会明白这一切，”他轻声说道。

‘In another world! Ah, I don’t like that other world! I don’t like it,’ he said, letting his scared eyes rest on his brother’s eyes. ‘Here one would think that to get out of all the baseness and the mess, one’s own and other people’s, would be a good thing, and yet I’m afraid of death, awfully afraid of death.’ He shuddered. ‘But do drink something. Would you like some champagne? Or shall we go somewhere? Let’s go to the Gypsies! Do you know I have got so fond of the Gypsies and Russian songs.’
‘在另一个世界！啊，我不喜欢那个异世界！我不喜欢这样，”他说，让他惊恐的目光落在他哥哥的眼睛上。 “在这里，人们会认为摆脱自己和他人的卑鄙和混乱是一件好事，但我害怕死亡，非常害怕死亡。”他颤抖着。 ‘但是一定要喝点东西。您想来点香槟吗？或者我们去某个地方？我们去吉普赛人吧！你知道吗，我非常喜欢吉普赛人和俄罗斯歌曲。

His speech had begun to falter, and he passed abruptly from one subject to another. Konstantin with the help of Masha persuaded him not to go out anywhere, and got him to bed hopelessly drunk.
他的讲话开始结结巴巴，突然从一个话题转到另一个话题。康斯坦丁在玛莎的帮助下劝说他不要出去任何地方，并让他醉得无可救药地上床睡觉。

Masha promised to write to Konstantin in case of need, and to persuade Nikolay Levin to go and stay with his brother.
玛莎答应在需要时写信给康斯坦丁，并说服尼古拉·莱文去和他哥哥住在一起。

Chapter 26
第26章

In the morning Konstantin Levin left Moscow, and towards evening he reached home. On the journey in the train he talked to his neighbors about politics and the new railways, and, just as in Moscow, he was overcome by a sense of confusion of ideas, dissatisfaction with himself, shame of something or other. But when he got out at his own station, when he saw his one-eyed coachman, Ignat, with the collar of his coat turned up; when, in the dim light reflected by the station fires, he saw his own sledge, his own horses with their tails tied up, in their harness trimmed with rings and tassels; when the coachman Ignat, as he put in his luggage, told him the village news, that the contractor had arrived, and that Pava had calved,—he felt that little by little the confusion was clearing up, and the shame and self-dissatisfaction were passing away. He felt this at the mere sight of Ignat and the horses; but when he had put on the sheepskin brought for him, had sat down wrapped up in the sledge, and had driven off pondering on the work that lay before him in the village, and staring at the side-horse, that had been his saddle-horse, past his prime now, but a spirited beast from the Don, he began to see what had happened to him in quite a different light. He felt himself, and did not want to be any one else. All he wanted now was to be better than before. In the first place he resolved that from that day he would give up hoping for any extraordinary happiness, such as marriage must have given him, and consequently he would not so disdain what he really had. Secondly, he would never again let himself give way to low passion, the memory of which had so tortured him when he had been making up his mind to make an offer. Then remembering his brother Nikolay, he resolved to himself that he would never allow himself to forget him, that he would follow him up, and not lose sight of him, so as to be ready to help when things should go ill with him. And that would be soon, he felt. Then, too, his brother’s talk of communism, which he had treated so lightly at the time, now made him think. He considered a revolution in economic conditions nonsense. But he always felt the injustice of his own abundance in comparison with the poverty of the peasants, and now he determined that so as to feel quite in the right, though he had worked hard and lived by no means luxuriously before, he would now work still harder, and would allow himself even less luxury. And all this seemed to him so easy a conquest over himself that he spent the whole drive in the pleasantest daydreams. With a resolute feeling of hope in a new, better life, he reached home before nine o’clock at night.
康斯坦丁·莱文早上离开莫斯科，傍晚时分回到家。在火车上，他与邻居谈论政治和新铁路，就像在莫斯科一样，他感到思想混乱、对自己不满意、对某件事感到羞耻。但当他在自己的车站下车时，当他看到他的独眼车夫伊格纳特，他的外套领子翻起来时；当在车站火光反射的昏暗灯光下，他看到了自己的雪橇，自己的马，尾巴被绑起来，马具上饰有环和流苏。当车夫伊格纳特在把行李放进去的时候，告诉他村里的消息，承包商已经到了，帕瓦已经生下孩子时，他感到困惑正在一点一点地消除，羞耻和自我不满也逐渐消失了。正在逝去。只要看到伊格纳特和马匹，他就有这种感觉。但当他穿上为他带来的羊皮，裹着雪橇坐下来，思考村里摆在他面前的工作时，盯着那匹曾经是他的马鞍的马。 ——马，现在已经过了巅峰期，但它是来自唐的一头充满活力的野兽，他开始以完全不同的眼光看待发生在自己身上的事情。他感觉自己就是他自己，不想成为别人。他现在想要的只是比以前更好。首先，他决定从那天起，他将放弃对任何非凡幸福的希望，例如婚姻一定会给他带来的幸福，因此他不会如此蔑视自己真正拥有的东西。其次，他再也不会让自己屈服于低落的激情，当他下定决心提出要约时，对低落激情的记忆让他如此痛苦。 然后想起他的兄弟尼古拉，他暗下决心，他永远不会让自己忘记他，他会跟着他，不要失去他的视线，以便在他遇到麻烦时随时准备提供帮助。他觉得那很快就会到来。然后，他哥哥关于共产主义的谈论，当时他对此不以为然，现在却让他思考。他认为经济条件的革命是无稽之谈。但他总觉得自己的富裕与农民的贫困相比是不公平的，现在他决定，尽管他以前工作很努力，生活也并不奢侈，但现在他决定，为了感觉自己是对的，他现在要工作。更加困难，并且会让自己更加不奢侈。在他看来，这一切都是那么容易地征服了自己，以至于他在整个车程中都在最愉快的白日梦中度过。怀着对新的、更美好的生活的坚定希望，他在晚上九点前回到了家。

The snow of the little quadrangle before the house was lit up by a light in the bedroom windows of his old nurse, Agafea Mihalovna, who performed the duties of housekeeper in his house. She was not yet asleep. Kouzma, waked up by her, came sidling sleepily out onto the steps. A setter bitch, Laska, ran out too, almost upsetting Kouzma, and whining, turned round about Levin’s knees, jumping up and longing, but not daring, to put her forepaws on his chest.
屋前小四合院的雪被他的老保姆阿加菲娅·米哈伊洛芙娜卧室窗户里的灯光照亮了，阿加菲亚·米哈洛夫娜在他的房子里担任管家。她还没有睡着。库兹玛被她叫醒，睡眼惺忪地侧身走到台阶上。一只塞特犬母狗拉斯卡也跑了出来，几乎惹恼了库兹玛，她呜呜地绕着莱文的膝盖转了个身，跳了起来，渴望但又不敢把前爪放在他的胸口上。

‘You’re soon back again, sir,’ said Agafea Mihalovna.
“您很快就会回来，先生，”阿加菲娅·米哈伊洛芙娜说道。

‘I got tired of it, Agafea Mihalovna. With friends, one is well; but at home, one is better,’ he answered, and went into his study.
“我厌倦了，阿加菲娅·米哈伊洛芙娜。与朋友相处，一帆风顺； “但在家里，一个更好。”他回答道，然后走进书房。

The study was slowly lit up as the candle was brought in. The familiar details came out: the stag’s horns, the bookshelves, the looking-glass, the stove with its ventilator, which had long wanted mending, his father’s sofa, a large table, on the table an open book, a broken ash tray, a manuscript book with his handwriting. As he saw all this, there came over him for an instant a doubt of the possibility of arranging the new life, of which he had been dreaming on the road. All these traces of his life seemed to clutch him, and to say to him: ‘No, you’re not going to get away from us, and you’re not going to be different, but you’re going to be the same as you’ve always been; with doubts, everlasting dissatisfaction with yourself, vain efforts to amend, and falls, and everlasting expectation, of a happiness which you won’t get, and which isn’t possible for you.’
随着蜡烛进来，书房慢慢亮起来。熟悉的细节浮现出来：鹿角、书架、镜子、早就需要修理的带通风机的炉子、父亲的沙发、一张大桌子。桌子上有一本打开的书，一个破损的烟灰缸，一本有他笔迹的手稿本。当他看到这一切时，他突然对安排新生活的可能性产生了怀疑，这是他在路上一直梦想的。他生命中的所有这些痕迹似乎都抓住了他，并对他说：“不，你不会离开我们，你不会有所不同，但你会是一样的”一如既往；伴随着怀疑、对自己永远的不满、徒劳的修正和失败的努力、以及对你不会得到、也不可能实现的幸福的永远的期望。

This the things said to him, but another voice in his heart was telling him that he must not fall under the sway of the past, and that one can do anything with oneself. And hearing that voice, he went into the corner where stood his two heavy dumbbells, and began brandishing them like a gymnast, trying to restore his confident temper. There was a creak of steps at the door. He hastily put down the dumbbells.
这些话是对他说的，但他内心的另一个声音却在告诉他，千万不能被过去所左右，人可以为所欲为。听到这个声音，他走到角落里放着两个沉重的哑铃，开始像体操运动员一样挥舞着它们，试图恢复自信的脾气。门口传来一阵脚步声。他连忙放下哑铃。

The bailiff came in, and said everything, thank God, was doing well; but informed him that the buckwheat in the new drying machine had been a little scorched. This piece of news irritated Levin. The new drying machine had been constructed and partly invented by Levin. The bailiff had always been against the drying machine, and now it was with suppressed triumph that he announced that the buckwheat had been scorched. Levin was firmly convinced that if the buckwheat had been scorched, it was only because the precautions had not been taken, for which he had hundreds of times given orders. He was annoyed, and reprimanded the bailiff. But there had been an important and joyful event: Pava, his best cow, an expensive beast, bought at a show, had calved.
法警走了进来，说感谢上帝，一切都很好。但告诉他新烘干机里的荞麦已经有点烧焦了。这个消息激怒了莱文。新的烘干机是由莱文建造并部分发明的。执达员一直反对烘干机，现在他带着压抑的胜利宣布荞麦已经被烧焦了。莱文坚信，如果荞麦被烧焦，那只是因为没有采取预防措施，为此他已经下达了数​​百次命令。他很生气，训斥了法警。但发生了一件重要而令人高兴的事情：帕瓦，他最好的奶牛，一头在展会上买来的昂贵的牲畜，已经产犊了。

‘Kouzma, give me my sheepskin. And you tell them to take a lantern. I’ll come and look at her,’ he said to the bailiff.
‘库兹马，把我的羊皮给我。然后你告诉他们拿灯笼。我会过来看看她，”他对法警说。

The cowhouse for the more valuable cows was just behind the house. Walking across the yard, passing a snowdrift by the lilac tree, he went into the cowhouse. There was the warm, steamy smell of dung when the frozen door was opened, and the cows, astonished at the unfamiliar light of the lantern, stirred on the fresh straw. He caught a glimpse of the broad, smooth, black and piebald back of Hollandka. Berkoot, the bull, was lying down with his ring in his lip, and seemed about to get up, but thought better of it, and only gave two snorts as they passed by him. Pava, a perfect beauty, huge as a hippopotamus, with her back turned to them, prevented their seeing the calf, as she sniffed her all over.
更有价值的奶牛的牛舍就在房子后面。穿过院子，经过紫丁香树旁的雪堆，他走进了牛舍。当冰冻的门打开时，一股温暖、潮湿的粪便气味扑面而来，奶牛们对灯笼的陌生光芒感到惊讶，在新鲜的稻草上翻腾起来。他瞥见了霍兰卡宽阔、光滑、黑色、花斑的背影。公牛伯库特躺在地上，嘴里叼着戒指，似乎正想站起来，但又想了想，当他们经过他身边时，他只哼了两声。帕瓦是一位完美的美女，体形像河马一样巨大，她背对着他们，阻止他们看到小牛犊，她用鼻子嗅着她的全身。

Levin went into the pen, looked Pava over, and lifted the red and spotted calf onto her long, tottering legs. Pava, uneasy, began lowing, but when Levin put the calf close to her she was soothed, and, sighing heavily, began licking her with her rough tongue. The calf, fumbling, poked her nose under her mother’s udder, and stiffened her tail out straight.
莱文走进围栏，打量了帕瓦一眼，然后把那只带着红色斑点的小牛抱到了她摇摇欲坠的长腿上。帕瓦不安地开始哞哞叫，但当莱文把小牛靠近她时，她平静了下来，重重地叹了口气，开始用粗糙的舌头舔她。小牛摸索着，把鼻子伸到妈妈的乳房下面，把尾巴伸直。

‘Here, bring the light, Fyodor, this way,’ said Levin, examining the calf. ‘Like the mother! though the color takes after the father; but that’s nothing. Very good. Long and broad in the haunch. Vassily Fedorovitch, isn’t she splendid?’ he said to the bailiff, quite forgiving him for the buckwheat under the influence of his delight in the calf.
“费奥多尔，把灯拿过来，这边走，”莱文检查着小牛说道。 ‘就像母亲一样！虽然颜色跟父亲一样；但这没什么。非常好。臀部又长又宽。瓦西里·费奥多罗维奇，她不是很漂亮吗？”他对法警说道，由于他对小牛的喜爱，他完全原谅了他送来的荞麦。

‘How could she fail to be? Oh, Semyon the contractor came the day after you left. You must settle with him, Konstantin Dmitrievitch,’ said the bailiff. ‘I did inform you about the machine.’
‘她怎么会不这样呢？哦，承包商谢苗在你离开后的第二天就来了。你必须和他和解，康斯坦丁·德米特里耶维奇。”法警说。 “我确实告诉过你关于这台机器的事。”

This question was enough to take Levin back to all the details of his work on the estate, which was on a large scale, and complicated. He went straight from the cowhouse to the counting house, and after a little conversation with the bailiff and Semyon the contractor, he went back to the house and straight upstairs to the drawing room.
这个问题足以让莱文回到他在庄园工作的所有细节，这是一个规模庞大、复杂的工作。他从牛舍直奔计数室，与法警和承包商谢苗交谈了一会儿后，他又回到牛舍，径直上楼来到客厅。

Chapter 27
第27章

The house was big and old-fashioned, and Levin, though he lived alone, had the whole house heated and used. He knew that this was stupid, he knew that it was positively not right, and contrary to his present new plans, but this house was a whole world to Levin. It was the world in which his father and mother had lived and died. They had lived just the life that to Levin seemed the ideal of perfection, and that he had dreamed of beginning with his wife, his family.
房子又大又老式，莱文虽然一个人住，但整栋房子都装了暖气并使用。他知道这很愚蠢，他知道这绝对是不对的，而且与他目前的新计划相反，但这座房子对莱文来说就是整个世界。这是他的父亲和母亲生活和死亡的世界。他们过着莱文看来完美的生活，也是他梦想着与妻子和家人一起开始的生活。

Levin scarcely remembered his mother. His conception of her was for him a sacred memory, and his future wife was bound to be in his imagination a repetition of that exquisite, holy ideal of a woman that his mother had been.
莱文几乎不记得他的母亲了。他对她的构想对他来说是一段神圣的记忆，而他未来的妻子在他的想象中必然是他母亲曾经那种精致、神圣的女性理想的重复。

He was so far from conceiving of love for woman apart from marriage that he positively pictured to himself first the family, and only secondarily the woman who would give him a family. His ideas of marriage were, consequently, quite unlike those of the great majority of his acquaintances, for whom getting married was one of the numerous facts of social life. For Levin it was the chief affair of life, on which its whole happiness turned. And now he had to give up that.
他对婚姻以外的女人的爱远远没有想象到，所以他首先对自己积极地描绘了家庭，其次才是能给他一个家庭的女人。因此，他对婚姻的看法与他大多数熟人的想法截然不同，对他们来说，结婚是社会生活的众多事实之一。对莱文来说，这是人生的头等大事，人生的全部幸福都依赖于此。现在他不得不放弃了。

When he had gone into the little drawing room, where he always had tea, and had settled himself in his armchair with a book, and Agafea Mihalovna had brought him tea, and with her usual, ‘Well, I’ll stay a while, sir,’ had taken a chair in the window, he felt that, however strange it might be, he had not parted from his daydreams, and that he could not live without them. Whether with her, or with another, still it would be. He was reading a book, and thinking of what he was reading, and stopping to listen to Agafea Mihalovna, who gossiped away without flagging, and yet with all that, all sorts of pictures of family life and work in the future rose disconnectedly before his imagination. He felt that in the depth of his soul something had been put in its place, settled down, and laid to rest.
当他走进小客厅时，他总是在那里喝茶，然后拿着一本书坐在扶手椅上，阿加菲娅·米哈伊洛夫娜给他端来了茶，并像往常一样说道：“好吧，我会呆一会儿， “先生，”当他在窗边的椅子上坐下时，他感到，无论这有多奇怪，他都没有摆脱他的白日梦，没有它们他就无法生活。不管是和她在一起，还是和别人在一起，都是这样。他一边看书，一边想着自己正在读的内容，一边停下来听阿加菲娅·米哈伊洛芙娜说话，阿加菲娅·米哈伊洛夫娜仍在不停地闲聊，然而与此同时，各种家庭生活和未来工作的画面却断断续续地浮现在他的眼前。想像力。他觉得在他的灵魂深处，有什么东西已经被放回了原来的位置，安定下来，安息了。

He heard Agafea Mihalovna talking of how Prohor had forgotten his duty to God, and with the money Levin had given him to buy a horse, had been drinking without stopping, and had beaten his wife till he’d half killed her. He listened, and read his book, and recalled the whole train of ideas suggested by his reading. It was Tyndall’s Treatise on Heat. He recalled his own criticisms of Tyndall of his complacent satisfaction in the cleverness of his experiments, and for his lack of philosophic insight. And suddenly there floated into his mind the joyful thought: ‘In two years’ time I shall have two Dutch cows; Pava herself will perhaps still be alive, a dozen young daughters of Berkoot and the three others—how lovely!’
他听到阿加菲娅·米哈伊洛夫娜谈论普罗霍尔如何忘记了自己对上帝的义务，用列文给他买一匹马的钱，不停地喝酒，并殴打他的妻子，直到他把她打得半死。他听着，读着他的书，回忆起他阅读中提出的整套想法。这是廷德尔的《热论》。他回忆起自己对廷德尔的批评，批评廷德尔对自己实验的聪明才智感到沾沾自喜，而且缺乏哲学洞察力。突然，他的脑海里浮现出一个快乐的念头：“两年后，我将拥有两只荷兰牛；”帕瓦本人也许还活着，还有伯库特和其他三个人的十几个小女儿——多么可爱啊！

He took up his book again. ‘Very good, electricity and heat are the same thing; but is it possible to substitute the one quantity for the other in the equation for the solution of any problem? No. Well, then what of it? The connection between all the forces of nature is felt instinctively.... It’s particulary nice if Pava’s daughter should be a red-spotted cow, and all the herd will take after her, and the other three, too! Splendid! To go out with my wife and visitors to meet the herd.... My wife says, Kostya and I looked after that calf like a child.’ ‘How can it interest you so much?’ says a visitor. ‘Everything that interests him, interests me.’ But who will she be?’ And he remembered what had happened at Moscow.... ‘Well, there’s nothing to be done.... It’s not my fault. But now everything shall go on in a new way. It’s nonsense to pretend that life won’t let one, that the past won’t let one. One must struggle to live better, much better.’... He raised his head, and fell to dreaming. Old Laska, who had not yet fully digested her delight at his return, and had run out into the yard to bark, came back wagging her tail, and crept up to him, bringing in the scent of fresh air, put her head under his hand, and whined plaintively, asking to be stroked.
他又拿起了书本。 ‘很好，电和热是同一个东西；但是是否有可能用方程中的一个量代替另一个量来解决任何问题呢？不，那么那又怎样呢？所有自然力量之间的联系是本能的……如果帕瓦的女儿是一头红斑牛，那就太好了，所有的牛群都会效仿她，其他三个也是如此！灿烂！与我的妻子和游客一起出去见见牛群……我的妻子说，克斯特亚和我像照顾孩子一样照顾那只小牛。”“你怎么会对它这么感兴趣？”一位游客说道。 “他感兴趣的一切，我也感兴趣。”但是她会是谁？”他想起了在莫斯科发生的事情……“好吧，没有什么可做的……这不是我的错。但现在一切都将以新的方式继续下去。假装生活不允许、过去不允许，这是无稽之谈。一个人必须努力才能生活得更好，更好。”……他抬起头，陷入了梦乡。老拉斯卡还没有完全消化他回来带来的喜悦，跑到院子里吠叫，摇着尾巴回来了，爬到他身边，带来了新鲜空气的气味，把头埋在他的下面。伸出手，哀怨地哀嚎着，请求被抚摸。

‘There, who’d have thought it?’ said Agafea Mihalovna. ‘The dog now...why, she understands that her master’s come home, and that he’s low-spirited.’
“谁会想到呢？”阿加菲娅·米哈伊洛夫娜说道。 “现在的狗……为什么，她知道她的主人回家了，而且他情绪低落。”

‘Why low-spirited?’
“为什么情绪低落？”

‘Do you suppose I don’t see it, sir? It’s high time I should know the gentry. Why, I’ve grown up from a little thing with them. It’s nothing, sir, so long as there’s health and a clear conscience.’
“您认为我没有看到吗，先生？现在是我应该认识绅士的时候了。为什么，我是从和他们一起的一件小事中长大的。先生，只要身体健康、问心无愧就没什么问题。”

Levin looked intently at her, surprised at how well she knew his thought.
莱文专注地看着她，惊讶于她如此了解他的想法。

‘Shall I fetch you another cup?’ said she, and taking his cup she went out.
“要我再给你拿一个杯子吗？”她说，然后拿着他的杯子出去了。

Laska kept poking her head under his hand. He stroked her, and she promptly curled up at his feet, laying her head on a hindpaw. And in token of all now being well and satisfactory, she opened her mouth a little, smacked her lips, and settling her sticky lips more comfortably about her old teeth, she sank into blissful repose. Levin watched all her movements attentively.
拉斯卡一直把头伸到他的手下。他抚摸着她，她立刻蜷缩在他的脚边，把头枕在后爪上。为了表示现在一切都很好、令人满意，她稍微张开了嘴，咂了咂嘴唇，把粘糊糊的嘴唇更舒服地放在她的旧牙齿上，她陷入了幸福的休息。莱文全神贯注地注视着她的一举一动。

‘That’s what I’ll do,’ he said to himself; ‘that’s what I’ll do! Nothing’s amiss.... All’s well.’
“这就是我要做的，”他对自己说。 ‘这就是我要做的！没什么问题……一切都很好。

Chapter 28
第28章

After the ball, early next morning, Anna Arkadyevna sent her husband a telegram that she was leaving Moscow the same day.
舞会结束后，第二天一早，安娜·阿尔卡季耶夫娜给丈夫发了一封电报，说她将于当天离开莫斯科。

‘No, I must go, I must go”; she explained to her sister-in-law the change in her plans in a tone that suggested that she had to remember so many things that there was no enumerating them: ‘no, it had really better be today!’
“不，我必须走，我必须走”；她向嫂子解释了她计划的改变，语气表明她必须记住太多事情，无法一一列举：“不，最好是今天！”

Stepan Arkadyevitch was not dining at home, but he promised to come and see his sister off at seven o’clock.
斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇没有在家吃饭，但他答应七点钟来送妹妹。

Kitty, too, did not come, sending a note that she had a headache. Dolly and Anna dined alone with the children and the English governess. Whether it was that the children were fickle, or that they had acute senses, and felt that Anna was quite different that day from what she had been when they had taken such a fancy to her, that she was not now interested in them,—but they had abruptly dropped their play with their aunt, and their love for her, and were quite indifferent that she was going away. Anna was absorbed the whole morning in preparations for her departure. She wrote notes to her Moscow acquaintances, put down her accounts, and packed. Altogether Dolly fancied she was not in a placid state of mind, but in that worried mood, which Dolly knew well with herself, and which does not come without cause, and for the most part covers dissatisfaction with self. After dinner, Anna went up to her room to dress, and Dolly followed her.
凯蒂也没有来，她发了条短信说她头疼。多莉和安娜与孩子们和英国家庭女教师单独用餐。不知是孩子们善变，还是他们感觉敏锐，觉得那天的安娜与他们当初看上她时的样子大不相同，以至于她现在对他们不感兴趣了——但他们突然放弃了与姨妈的玩耍，以及对她的爱，对她的离开也漠不关心。安娜整个上午都在全神贯注地准备出发。她给莫斯科的熟人写了便条，记下账目，然后收拾行李。总而言之，多莉觉得自己的心境并不平静，而是处于那种忧心忡忡的情绪中，多莉自己很清楚这种情绪，这种情绪的出现并非没有原因，而且在很大程度上掩盖了对自我的不满。晚饭后，安娜上楼去自己的房间穿衣服，多莉跟着她。

‘How queer you are today!’ Dolly said to her.
“你今天真奇怪！”多莉对她说。

‘I? Do you think so? I’m not queer, but I’m nasty. I am like that sometimes. I keep feeling as if I could cry. It’s very stupid, but it’ll pass off,’ said Anna quickly, and she bent her flushed face over a tiny bag in which she was packing a nightcap and some cambric handkerchiefs. Her eyes were particularly bright, and were continually swimming with tears. ‘In the same way I didn’t want to leave Petersburg, and now I don’t want to go away from here.’
'我？你这样认为吗？我不是同性恋，但我很讨厌。我有时也是这样。我总感觉自己快要哭了。这很愚蠢，但它会过去的。”安娜很快说道，她把红红的脸弯向一个小袋子，里面装着一顶睡帽和一些麻布手帕。她的眼睛特别明亮，不断地流着泪水。 “同样，我不想离开彼得堡，现在我也不想离开这里。”

‘You came here and did a good deed,’ said Dolly, looking intently at her.
“你来到这里做了一件好事，”多莉说，专注地看着她。

Anna looked at her with eyes wet with tears.
安娜看着她，眼睛里充满了泪水。

‘Don’t say that, Dolly. I’ve done nothing, and could do nothing. I often wonder why people are all in league to spoil me. What have I done, and what could I do? In your heart there was found love enough to forgive...’
“别这么说，多莉。我什么也没做，也无能为力。我经常想知道为什么人们都联手来宠我。我做了什么，我还能做什么？在你的心中找到了足以原谅的爱……”

‘If it had not been for you, God knows what would have happened! How happy you are, Anna!’ said Dolly. ‘Everything is clear and good in your heart.’
‘如果没有你，天知道会发生什么！你真幸福，安娜！”多莉说。 “一切都在你心里清楚、美好。”

‘Every heart has its own skeletons, as the English say.’
“正如英国人所说，每颗心都有自己的骨骼。”

‘You have no sort of skeleton, have you? Everything is so clear in you.’
‘你连骨头都没有，是吗？你身上的一切都那么清晰。

‘I have!’ said Anna suddenly, and, unexpectedly after her tears, a sly, ironical smile curved her lips.
“我有！”安娜突然说道，出乎意料的是，在她流泪之后，她的嘴角露出了狡猾的、讽刺的微笑。

‘Come, he’s amusing, anyway, your skeleton, and not depressing,’ said Dolly, smiling.
“来吧，无论如何，他很有趣，你的骷髅，而不是令人沮丧，”多莉微笑着说。

‘No, he’s depressing. Do you know why I’m going today instead of tomorrow? It’s a confession that weighs on me; I want to make it to you,’ said Anna, letting herself drop definitely into an armchair, and looking straight into Dolly’s face.
‘不，他很沮丧。你知道我为什么今天去而不是明天去吗？这是一个令我沉重的坦白；我想到你那儿去。”安娜说着，一屁股坐在扶手椅上，直视着多莉的脸。

And to her surprise Dolly saw that Anna was blushing up to her ears, up to the curly black ringlets on her neck.
令多莉惊讶的是，安娜的脸红到了她的耳朵，红到了她脖子上卷曲的黑色卷发。

‘Yes,’ Anna went on. ‘Do you know why Kitty didn’t come to dinner? She’s jealous of me. I have spoiled...I’ve been the cause of that ball being a torture to her instead of a pleasure. But truly, truly, it’s not my fault, or only my fault a little bit,’ she said, daintily drawling the words ‘a little bit.’
“是的，”安娜继续说道。 “你知道基蒂为什么不来吃晚饭吗？她嫉妒我。我已经宠坏了……我就是那个舞会对她来说是一种折磨而不是一种乐趣的原因。但说实话，这不是我的错，或者只是我的一点错，”她优雅地拖长了“一点点”这个词。

‘Oh, how like Stiva you said that!’ said Dolly, laughing.
“哦，你说的多么像斯蒂瓦啊！”多莉笑着说道。

Anna was hurt.
安娜受伤了。

‘Oh no, oh no! I’m not Stiva,’ she said, knitting her brows. ‘That’s why I’m telling you, just because I could never let myself doubt myself for an instant,’ said Anna.
‘哦不，哦不！我不是斯蒂瓦，”她皱着眉头说道。 “这就是为什么我告诉你，只是因为我永远不能让自己怀疑自己，”安娜说。

But at the very moment she was uttering the words, she felt that they were not true. She was not merely doubting herself, she felt emotion at the thought of Vronsky, and was going away sooner than she had meant, simply to avoid meeting him.
但就在她说出这句话的那一刻，她就觉得这话不真实。她不仅仅是在怀疑自己，一想到渥伦斯基，她就感到激动不已，所以她比原计划提前离开了，只是为了避免见到他。

‘Yes, Stiva told me you danced the mazurka with him, and that he...’
“是的，斯蒂瓦告诉我你和他一起跳了玛祖卡舞，而他……”

‘You can’t imagine how absurdly it all came about. I only meant to be matchmaking, and all at once it turned out quite differently. Possibly against my own will...’
‘你无法想象这一切发生得多么荒谬。我本来只是想牵线搭桥，结果一下子就完全不同了。可能违背我自己的意愿……”

She crimsoned and stopped.
她涨红了脸，停了下来。

‘Oh, they feel it directly?’ said Dolly.
“哦，他们直接感觉到了？”多莉说。

‘But I should be in despair if there were anything serious in it on his side,’ Anna interrupted her. ‘And I am certain it will all be forgotten, and Kitty will leave off hating me.’
“但如果他那边有什么严重的事情，我应该感到绝望，”安娜打断了她。 “我确信这一切都会被忘记，基蒂也会不再恨我。”

‘All the same, Anna, to tell you the truth, I’m not very anxious for this marriage for Kitty. And it’s better it should come to nothing, if he, Vronsky, is capable of falling in love with you in a single day.’
“尽管如此，安娜，说实话，我对基蒂的婚姻并不是很着急。如果他，渥伦斯基，能够在一天之内爱上你，那最好还是什么都没有。”

‘Oh, heavens, that would be too silly!’ said Anna, and again a deep flush of pleasure came out on her face, when she heard the idea, that absorbed her, put into words. ‘And so here I am going away, having made an enemy of Kitty, whom I liked so much! Ah, how sweet she is! But you’ll make it right, Dolly? Eh?’
“哦，天哪，这太傻了！”安娜说，当她听到这个令她着迷的想法被用语言表达出来时，她的脸上再次露出了深深的喜悦。 “所以我要离开这里了，因为我已经与我非常喜欢的基蒂为敌了！”啊，她多么可爱啊！但你会做对的，多莉？嗯？’

Dolly could scarcely suppress a smile. She loved Anna, but she enjoyed seeing that she too had her weaknesses.
多莉忍不住笑了。她爱安娜，但她很高兴看到她也有自己的弱点。

‘An enemy? That can’t be.’
‘敌人？那不可能。

‘I did so want you all to care for me, as I do for you, and now I care for you more than ever,’ said Anna, with tears in her eyes. ‘Ah, how silly I am today!’
“我真的希望你们都关心我，就像我关心你们一样，现在我比以往任何时候都更关心你们，”安娜眼里含着泪水说道。 “啊，我今天真傻！”

She passed her handkerchief over her face and began dressing.
她用手帕捂住脸，开始穿衣服。

At the very moment of starting Stepan Arkadyevitch arrived, late, rosy and good-humored, smelling of wine and cigars.
就在出发的那一刻，斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇迟到了，面色红润，心情愉快，身上散发着葡萄酒和雪茄的味道。

Anna’s emotionalism infected Dolly, and when she embraced her sister-in-law for the last time, she whispered: ‘Remember, Anna, what you’ve done for me—I shall never forget. And remember that I love you, and shall always love you as my dearest friend!’
安娜的感性感染了多莉，当她最后一次拥抱嫂子时，她低声说道：“记住，安娜，你为我所做的一切——我永远不会忘记。”请记住，我爱你，并将永远爱你，就像我最亲爱的朋友一样！”

‘I don’t know why,’ said Anna, kissing her and hiding her tears.
“我不知道为什么，”安娜说，一边亲吻她，一边掩饰泪水。

‘You understood me, and you understand. Good-bye, my darling!’
‘你了解我，你也了解。再见，我亲爱的！

Chapter 29
第29章

‘Come, it’s all over, and thank God!’ was the first thought that came to Anna Arkadyevna, when she had said good-bye for the last time to her brother, who had stood blocking up the entrance to the carriage till the third bell rang. She sat down on her lounge beside Annushka, and looked about her in the twilight of the sleeping-carriage. ‘Thank God! tomorrow I shall see Seryozha and Alexey Alexandrovitch, and my life will go on in the old way, all nice and as usual.’
“来吧，一切都结束了，谢天谢地！”这是安娜·阿尔卡季耶夫娜最后一次向她的哥哥道别时，她的第一个想法是，她的哥哥一直站在马车的入口处，直到第三个小时。铃声响了。她坐在安努什卡旁边的休息室里，在卧铺车厢的暮色中环顾四周。 '感谢上帝！明天我将见到谢廖扎和阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇，我的生活将继续以旧的方式，一切都很好，像往常一样。

Still in the same anxious frame of mind, as she had been all that day, Anna took pleasure in arranging herself for the journey with great care. With her little deft hands she opened and shut her little red bag, took out a cushion, laid it on her knees, and carefully wrapping up her feet, settled herself comfortably. An invalid lady had already lain down to sleep. Two other ladies began talking to Anna, and a stout elderly lady tucked up her feet, and made observations about the heating of the train. Anna answered a few words, but not foreseeing any entertainment from the conversation, she asked Annushka to get a lamp, hooked it onto the arm of her seat, and took from her bag a paper knife and an English novel. At first her reading made no progress. The fuss and bustle were disturbing; then when the train had started, she could not help listening to the noises; then the snow beating on the left window and sticking to the pane, and the sight of the muffled guard passing by, covered with snow on one side, and the conversations about the terrible snowstorm raging outside, distracted her attention. Farther on, it was continually the same again and again: the same shaking and rattling, the same snow on the window, the same rapid transitions from steaming heat to cold, and back again to heat, the same passing glimpses of the same figures in the twilight, and the same voices, and Anna began to read and to understand what she read. Annushka was already dozing, the red bag on her lap, clutched by her broad hands, in gloves, of which one was torn. Anna Arkadyevna read and understood, but it was distasteful to her to read, that is, to follow the reflection of other people’s lives. She had too great a desire to live herself. If she read that the heroine of the novel was nursing a sick man, she longed to move with noiseless steps about the room of a sick man; if she read of a member of Parliament making a speech, she longed to be delivering the speech; if she read of how Lady Mary had ridden after the hounds, and had provoked her sister-in-law, and had surprised everyone by her boldness, she too wished to be doing the same. But there was no chance of doing anything; and twisting the smooth paper knife in her little hands, she forced herself to read.
安娜仍然像那天一样焦虑不安，她很高兴精心安排自己的旅程。她用灵巧的小手打开又合上红色的小包，拿出一个垫子放在膝盖上，小心翼翼地包住脚，舒服地坐了下来。一位体弱多病的女士已经躺下睡觉了。另外两位女士开始与安娜交谈，一位身材矮胖的老太太盘起脚，观察火车的供暖情况。安娜回答了几句话，但没想到谈话会带来任何娱乐，她让安努什卡拿来一盏灯，把它挂在座位扶手上，然后从包里拿出一把裁纸刀和一本英文小说。起初她的阅读没有任何进展。喧闹和喧闹令人不安。当火车开动时，她忍不住去听那些噪音。然后，雪打在左窗上，粘在玻璃上，看到蒙着闷热的警卫走过，一侧覆盖着雪，还有外面正在肆虐的可怕暴风雪的谈话，分散了她的注意力。再往前走，一切都一再重复：同样的摇晃和嘎嘎声，同样的窗户上的雪，同样从热气腾腾到寒冷，再回到炎热的快速转变，同样的一闪而过的相同人物。暮色和同样的声音，安娜开始阅读并理解她所读的内容。安努什卡已经在打瞌睡了，红色的包放在她的腿上，宽大的手紧紧地抓着，戴着手套，但其中一只已经撕破了。安娜·阿尔卡季耶夫娜读了并且理解了，但她不喜欢阅读，即追随别人生活的反映。她对自己活下去的渴望太强烈了。 如果她读到小说中的女主人公正在护理一个病人，她就会渴望在病人的房间里悄无声息地走动；如果她读到一位议员正在发表演讲，她就会渴望亲自发表演讲；如果她读到玛丽夫人如何追赶猎犬，激怒了她的嫂子，并因她的大胆而使所有人感到惊讶，她也希望这样做。但没有机会做任何事情；她扭动着小手中光滑的裁纸刀，强迫自己读书。

The hero of the novel was already almost reaching his English happiness, a baronetcy and an estate, and Anna was feeling a desire to go with him to the estate, when she suddenly felt that he ought to feel ashamed, and that she was ashamed of the same thing. But what had he to be ashamed of? ‘What have I to be ashamed of?’ she asked herself in injured surprise. She laid down the book and sank against the back of the chair, tightly gripping the paper cutter in both hands. There was nothing. She went over all her Moscow recollections. All were good, pleasant. She remembered the ball, remembered Vronsky and his face of slavish adoration, remembered all her conduct with him: there was nothing shameful. And for all that, at the same point in her memories, the feeling of shame was intensified, as though some inner voice, just at the point when she thought of Vronsky, were saying to her, ‘Warm, very warm, hot.’ ‘Well, what is it?’ she said to herself resolutely, shifting her seat in the lounge. ‘What does it mean? Am I afraid to look it straight in the face? Why, what is it? Can it be that between me and this officer boy there exist, or can exist, any other relations than such as are common with every acquaintance?’ She laughed contemptuously and took up her book again; but now she was definitely unable to follow what she read. She passed the paper knife over the window pane, then laid its smooth, cool surface to her cheek, and almost laughed aloud at the feeling of delight that all at once without cause came over her. She felt as though her nerves were strings being strained tighter and tighter on some sort of screwing peg. She felt her eyes opening wider and wider, her fingers and toes twitching nervously, something within oppressing her breathing, while all shapes and sounds seemed in the uncertain half-light to strike her with unaccustomed vividness. Moments of doubt were continually coming upon her, when she was uncertain whether the train were going forwards or backwards, or were standing still altogether; whether it were Annushka at her side or a stranger. ‘What’s that on the arm of the chair, a fur cloak or some beast? And what am I myself? Myself or some other woman?’ She was afraid of giving way to this delirium. But something drew her towards it, and she could yield to it or resist it at will. She got up to rouse herself, and slipped off her plaid and the cape of her warm dress. For a moment she regained her self-possession, and realized that the thin peasant who had come in wearing a long overcoat, with buttons missing from it, was the stoveheater, that he was looking at the thermometer, that it was the wind and snow bursting in after him at the door; but then everything grew blurred again.... That peasant with the long waist seemed to be gnawing something on the wall, the old lady began stretching her legs the whole length of the carriage, and filling it with a black cloud; then there was a fearful shrieking and banging, as though someone were being torn to pieces; then there was a blinding dazzle of red fire before her eyes and a wall seemed to rise up and hide everything. Anna felt as though she were sinking down. But it was not terrible, but delightful. The voice of a man muffled up and covered with snow shouted something in her ear. She got up and pulled herself together; she realized that they had reached a station and that this was the guard. She asked Annushka to hand her the cape she had taken off and her shawl, put them on and moved towards the door.
小说里的主人公已经快要达到他在英国的幸福了，成为男爵，拥有庄园，安娜正想和他一起去庄园，突然觉得他应该感到羞耻，而她也为自己感到羞耻。一样的东西。但他有什么可羞耻的呢？ “我有什么可感到羞耻的？”她惊讶地问自己。她放下书，靠在椅背上，双手紧紧握住切纸刀。什么都没有。她回顾了她在莫斯科的所有回忆。一切都很好，令人愉快。她记得那场舞会，记得渥伦斯基和他那张奴性崇拜的脸，记得她对他的所有行为：没有什么可耻的。尽管如此，在她记忆中的同一时刻，羞耻感却更加强烈，仿佛就在她想起渥伦斯基的那一刻，内心有一个声音对她说：“温暖，非常温暖，炎热。” “嗯，什么事？”她坚定地自言自语，一边在休息室换了个座位。 '这是什么意思？我害怕直视它的脸吗？为什么，那是什么？难道我和这个军官男孩之间，除了熟人之间常见的关系之外，还存在或者能够存在其他的关系吗？”她轻蔑地笑了笑，又拿起了书本。但现在她绝对无法理解她所读的内容。她把裁纸刀放在窗玻璃上，然后把它光滑、凉爽的表面放在脸颊上，突然无缘无故地涌上心头的喜悦感几乎让她笑出声来。她感觉自己的神经仿佛被某种螺丝钉上的弦绷得越来越紧。 她感觉自己的眼睛睁得越来越大，手指和脚趾紧张地抽搐，有什么东西在压迫着她的呼吸，而所有的形状和声音似乎在不确定的半光中以不寻常的生动性击中了她。当她不确定火车是向前还是向后，还是完全静止时，怀疑的时刻不断地向她袭来。无论是她身边的安努什卡还是陌生人。 “椅子扶手上的是什么，一件毛皮斗篷还是什么野兽？而我自己又是什么？我还是其他女人？”她害怕陷入这种疯狂之中。但有某种东西吸引着她，她可以随意屈服或反抗。她起身叫醒自己，脱掉格子呢衣服和保暖衣服的斗篷。她一下子恢复了镇定，意识到进来的那个瘦瘦的农民穿着一件长外套，纽扣不见了，是炉子，他正在看温度计，这是风和雪。在他身后冲进门；但随后一切又变得模糊了……那个腰长的农夫似乎在啃着墙上的什么东西，老太太开始把腿伸到车厢的整个长度上，让车厢充满了乌云；然后传来可怕的尖叫声和撞击声，好像有人被撕成碎片。然后她眼前出现了耀眼的红色火焰，一堵墙似乎升起，遮住了一切。安娜感觉自己正在往下沉。但这并不可怕，反而令人愉快。一个浑身覆盖着雪的男人声音低沉地在她耳边喊着什么。她站起来，振作起来。她意识到他们已经到了一个车站，这是警卫。 她让安努什卡把脱下来的斗篷和披肩递给她，穿上，然后朝门口走去。

‘Do you wish to get out?’ asked Annushka.
“你想出去吗？”安努什卡问道。

‘Yes, I want a little air. It’s very hot in here.’ And she opened the door. The driving snow and the wind rushed to meet her and struggled with her over the door. But she enjoyed the struggle.
“是的，我想要一点空气。”这里很热。”然后她打开了门。狂风大雪迎面扑来，拖着她翻过门。但她很享受这种挣扎。

She opened the door and went out. The wind seemed as though lying in wait for her; with gleeful whistle it tried to snatch her up and bear her off, but she clung to the cold door post, and holding her skirt got down onto the platform and under the shelter of the carriages. The wind had been powerful on the steps, but on the platform, under the lee of the carriages, there was a lull. With enjoyment she drew deep breaths of the frozen, snowy air, and standing near the carriage looked about the platform and the lighted station.
她打开门走了出去。风似乎在等待着她。它欢快地吹着口哨，想把她抓起来，把她拖走，但她紧紧抓住冰冷的门柱，抓着裙子下了月台，到了车厢的遮蔽处。台阶上的风很大，但月台上，在车厢的背风处，风很平静。她高兴地深深地吸了一口冰冷的雪空气，站在车厢附近环顾站台和灯火通明的车站。

Chapter 30
第30章

The raging tempest rushed whistling between the wheels of the carriages, about the scaffolding, and round the corner of the station. The carriages, posts, people, everything that was to be seen was covered with snow on one side, and was getting more and more thickly covered. For a moment there would come a lull in the storm, but then it would swoop down again with such onslaughts that it seemed impossible to stand against it. Meanwhile men ran to and fro, talking merrily together, their steps crackling on the platform as they continually opened and closed the big doors. The bent shadow of a man glided by at her feet, and she heard sounds of a hammer upon iron. ‘Hand over that telegram!’ came an angry voice out of the stormy darkness on the other side. ‘This way! No. 28!’ several different voices shouted again, and muffled figures ran by covered with snow. Two gentlemen with lighted cigarettes passed by her. She drew one more deep breath of the fresh air, and had just put her hand out of her muff to take hold of the door post and get back into the carriage, when another man in a military overcoat, quite close beside her, stepped between her and the flickering light of the lamp post. She looked round, and the same instant recognized Vronsky’s face. Putting his hand to the peak of his cap, he bowed to her and asked, Was there anything she wanted? Could he be of any service to her? She gazed rather a long while at him without answering, and, in spite of the shadow in which he was standing, she saw, or fancied she saw, both the expression of his face and his eyes. It was again that expression of reverential ecstasy which had so worked upon her the day before. More than once she had told herself during the past few days, and again only a few moments before, that Vronsky was for her only one of the hundreds of young men, forever exactly the same, that are met everywhere, that she would never allow herself to bestow a thought upon him. But now at the first instant of meeting him, she was seized by a feeling of joyful pride. She had no need to ask why he had come. She knew as certainly as if he had told her that he was here to be where she was.
狂暴的暴风雨呼啸着从车厢的车轮之间、脚手架周围、车站的拐角处呼啸而过。马车、驿站、人，所见之处，一侧都被雪覆盖着，而且越来越厚。暴风雨会暂时平静下来，但随后又会猛烈地猛扑下来，让人几乎无法抵挡。与此同时，人们跑来跑去，一起愉快地交谈，他们的脚步在平台上噼啪作响，不断地打开和关闭大门。一个男人弯曲的影子从她脚边滑过，她听到锤子敲打铁的声音。 “交出那份电报！”从另一边暴风雨般的黑暗中传来一个愤怒的声音。 '这边走！ 28号！”几个不同的声音再次喊道，低沉的人影覆盖着积雪跑过。两位点着香烟的绅士从她身边走过。她又深深地吸了一口新鲜空气，刚把手从手筒里伸出来，抓住门柱，回到马车里，另一个穿着军大衣的男人就站在她旁边，站在她中间。她和灯柱上闪烁的光芒。她环顾四周，立刻就认出了渥伦斯基的脸。他把手放在帽檐上，向她鞠了一躬，问道：“她有什么想要的吗？”他能为她提供什么帮助吗？她凝视了他很长一段时间，没有回答，尽管他站在阴影中，她还是看到了，或者说她以为她看到了他的脸和眼睛的表情。这又是前一天在她身上表现出的那种恭敬狂喜的表情。 在过去的几天里，她不止一次地告诉自己，就在几分钟之前，渥伦斯基对她来说只是数百个年轻人中的一个，永远一模一样，到处都会遇到，她永远不会允许她自己对他产生了思念。但现在，在见到他的第一瞬间，她就被一种喜悦的自豪感所占据。她不需要问他为何而来。她清楚地知道，就好像他告诉她，他来这里就是为了她所在的地方。

‘I didn’t know you were going. What are you coming for?’ she said, letting fall the hand with which she had grasped the door post. And irrepressible delight and eagerness shone in her face.
‘我不知道你要走。你来干什么？”她说着，松开了抓着门柱的手。她的脸上闪烁着难以抑制的喜悦和渴望。

‘What am I coming for?’ he repeated, looking straight into her eyes. ‘You know that I have come to be where you are,’ he said; ‘I can’t help it.’
“我来干什么？”他重复道，直视着她的眼睛。 “你知道我来到了你现在所在的地方，”他说。 “我忍不住。”

At that moment the wind, as it were, surmounting all obstacles, sent the snow flying from the carriage roofs, and clanked some sheet of iron it had torn off, while the hoarse whistle of the engine roared in front, plaintively and gloomily. All the awfulness of the storm seemed to her more splendid now. He had said what her soul longed to hear, though she feared it with her reason. She made no answer, and in her face he saw conflict.
就在这时，风仿佛冲破了一切障碍，把车厢顶上的积雪吹得飞扬起来，撕下的铁皮叮当作响，前面传来引擎嘶哑的汽笛声，哀怨而阴沉。暴风雨的所有可怕之处现在对她来说都显得更加美妙。他说出了她灵魂渴望听到的话，尽管她出于理智而害怕。她没有回答，从她的脸上他看到了冲突。

‘Forgive me, if you dislike what I said,’ he said humbly.
“如果你不喜欢我说的话，请原谅我，”他谦虚地说。

He had spoken courteously, deferentially, yet so firmly, so stubbornly, that for a long while she could make no answer.
他说话彬彬有礼，毕恭毕敬，却又那么坚决，那么固执，让她半天都答不上来。

‘It’s wrong, what you say, and I beg you, if you’re a good man, to forget what you’ve said, as I forget it,’ she said at last.
“你说的话是错误的，如果你是个好人，我求你忘记你所说的话，就像我忘记的那样，”她最后说道。

‘Not one word, not one gesture of yours shall I, could I, ever forget...’
“我不会忘记你的任何一句话，任何一个动作……”

‘Enough, enough!’ she cried trying assiduously to give a stern expression to her face, into which he was gazing greedily. And clutching at the cold door post, she clambered up the steps and got rapidly into the corridor of the carriage. But in the little corridor she paused, going over in her imagination what had happened. Though she could not recall her own words or his, she realized instinctively that the momentary conversation had brought them fearfully closer; and she was panic-stricken and blissful at it. After standing still a few seconds, she went into the carriage and sat down in her place. The overstrained condition which had tormented her before did not only come back, but was intensified, and reached such a pitch that she was afraid every minute that something would snap within her from the excessive tension. She did not sleep all night. But in that nervous tension, and in the visions that filled her imagination, there was nothing disagreeable or gloomy: on the contrary there was something blissful, glowing, and exhilarating. Towards morning Anna sank into a doze, sitting in her place, and when she waked it was daylight and the train was near Petersburg. At once thoughts of home, of husband and of son, and the details of that day and the following came upon her.
“够了，够了！”她喊道，努力让自己的脸上露出严肃的表情，而他正贪婪地注视着她。她抓着冰冷的门柱，爬上台阶，快步进入了车厢的走廊。但在小走廊里，她停了下来，在想象中回想发生了什么事。虽然她不记得自己或他说过的话，但她本能地意识到，这短暂的谈话让他们的关系变得可怕起来。她对此既惊慌又高兴。站了几秒，她就上了马车，在自己的位置上坐下。之前折磨她的那种过度紧张的状态不但又回来了，而且还愈演愈烈，以至于她每时每刻都担心自己的内心有什么东西会因为过度的紧张而断裂。她一整晚都没有睡觉。但在那种紧张的神经中，在充满她想象力的幻象中，没有任何令人不快或阴郁的东西：相反，有一些幸福、发光和令人兴奋的东西。黎明时分，安娜坐在自己的位置上打瞌睡，等她醒来时，天已经亮了，火车已经接近彼得堡了。她立刻想到了家、丈夫和儿子，以及那天和接下来的细节。

At Petersburg, as soon as the train stopped and she got out, the first person that attracted her attention was her husband. ‘Oh, mercy! why do his ears look like that?’ she thought, looking at his frigid and imposing figure, and especially the ears that struck her at the moment as propping up the brim of his round hat. Catching sight of her, he came to meet her, his lips falling into their habitual sarcastic smile, and his big, tired eyes looking straight at her. An unpleasant sensation gripped at her heart when she met his obstinate and weary glance, as though she had expected to see him different. She was especially struck by the feeling of dissatisfaction with herself that she experienced on meeting him. That feeling was an intimate, familiar feeling, like a consciousness of hypocrisy, which she experienced in her relations with her husband. But hitherto she had not taken note of the feeling, now she was clearly and painfully aware of it.
到了圣彼得堡，火车一停，她一下车，第一个引起她注意的人就是她的丈夫。 ‘哦，怜悯！ “为什么他的耳朵是这个样子？”她看着他冰冷而威严的身材，尤其是此刻支撑在圆帽檐上的那双耳朵，她心想。看到她，他迎了上去，嘴唇陷入了习惯性的讽刺微笑，一双疲惫的大眼睛直视着她。当她看到他那执拗而疲倦的眼神时，一种不愉快的感觉揪住了她的心，仿佛她早就料到会看到他与众不同。尤其令她震惊的是，她在见到他时所感受到的对自己的不满。那种感觉是一种亲密、熟悉的感觉，就像是一种虚伪的意识，她在与丈夫的关系中体会到了这种感觉。但之前她还没有注意到这种感觉，现在她清楚而痛苦地意识到了。

‘Yes, as you see, your tender spouse, as devoted as the first year after marriage, burned with impatience to see you,’ he said in his deliberate, high-pitched voice, and in that tone which he almost always took with her, a tone of jeering at anyone who should say in earnest what he said.
“是的，正如你所看到的，你温柔的配偶像结婚后第一年一样忠诚，迫不及待地想见到你，”他用他从容的、高亢的声音说道，而且用的是他几乎总是对她采取的语气。 ，一种嘲笑任何应该认真地说出他所说的话的人的语气。

‘Is Seryozha quite well?’ she asked.
“谢廖扎还好吗？”她问。

‘And is this all the reward,’ said he, ‘for my ardor? He’s quite well...’
“这就是对我的热情的全部回报吗？”他说。他很好……”

Chapter 31
第31章

Vronsky had not even tried to sleep all that night. He sat in his armchair, looking straight before him or scanning the people who got in and out. If he had indeed on previous occasions struck and impressed people who did not know him by his air of unhesitating composure, he seemed now more haughty and self-possessed than ever. He looked at people as if they were things. A nervous young man, a clerk in a law court, sitting opposite him, hated him for that look. The young man asked him for a light, and entered into conversation with him, and even pushed against him, to make him feel that he was not a thing, but a person. But Vronsky gazed at him exactly as he did at the lamp, and the young man made a wry face, feeling that he was losing his self-possession under the oppression of this refusal to recognize him as a person.
渥伦斯基整个晚上都没有想睡觉。他坐在扶手椅上，直视前方，或者扫视着进出的人。如果说以前他确实以毫不犹豫的镇定神态给那些不认识他的人留下了深刻的印象，那么现在他似乎比以往任何时候都更加傲慢和沉着。他看人就像看东西一样。坐在他对面的是一个紧张的年轻人，法庭里的一名书记员，讨厌他的样子。年轻人向他要灯，并与他交谈，甚至推挤他，让他觉得自己不是一个东西，而是一个人。但渥伦斯基凝视着他，就像他凝视着油灯一样，年轻人做了个苦脸，觉得在拒绝承认他这个人的压迫下，他正在失去自制。

Vronsky saw nothing and no one. He felt himself a king, not because he believed that he had made an impression on Anna—he did not yet believe that,—but because the impression she had made on him gave him happiness and pride.
渥伦斯基什么也没看到，也没有看到任何人。他觉得自己是一个国王，并不是因为他相信自己给安娜留下了深刻的印象——他还不相信这一点——而是因为她给他留下的印象给了他幸福和自豪。

What would come of it all he did not know, he did not even think. He felt that all his forces, hitherto dissipated, wasted, were centered on one thing, and bent with fearful energy on one blissful goal. And he was happy at it. He knew only that he had told her the truth, that he had come where she was, that all the happiness of his life, the only meaning in life for him, now lay in seeing and hearing her. And when he got out of the carriage at Bologova to get some seltzer water, and caught sight of Anna, involuntarily his first word had told her just what he thought. And he was glad he had told her it, that she knew it now and was thinking of it. He did not sleep all night. When he was back in the carriage, he kept unceasingly going over every position in which he had seen her, every word she had uttered, and before his fancy, making his heart faint with emotion, floated pictures of a possible future.
他不知道这一切会发生什么，他甚至没有想到。他感到自己所有的力量，迄今为止都被消散、浪费了，都集中在一件事上，并以可怕的能量致力于一个幸福的目标。他对此很高兴。他只知道他告诉了她真相，他已经来到了她所在的地方，他一生的幸福，他生命中唯一的意义，现在就在于看到和听到她。当他在博洛戈瓦下马车去买一些苏打水时，看到了安娜，他的第一句话不由自主地告诉了她他的想法。他很高兴他告诉了她这件事，她现在知道了，并且正在考虑这件事。他整夜没有睡觉。回到马车上，他不断地回想自己见过她的每一个姿势，说过的每一句话，脑海中浮现出一幅未来可能的画面，让他心潮澎湃。

When he got out of the train at Petersburg, he felt after his sleepless night as keen and fresh as after a cold bath. He paused near his compartment, waiting for her to get out. ‘Once more,’ he said to himself, smiling unconsciously, ‘once more I shall see her walk, her face; she will say something, turn her head, glance, smile, maybe.’ But before he caught sight of her, he saw her husband, whom the station-master was deferentially escorting through the crowd. ‘Ah, yes! The husband.’ Only now for the first time did Vronsky realize clearly the fact that there was a person attached to her, a husband. He knew that she had a husband, but had hardly believed in his existence, and only now fully believed in him, with his head and shoulders, and his legs clad in black trousers; especially when he saw this husband calmly take her arm with a sense of property.
当他在彼得堡下了火车时，一夜无眠后的他感觉就像洗了一次冷水澡一样精神焕发、神清气爽。他在包厢附近停下来，等着她出去。 “再一次，”他无意识地微笑着对自己说，“我将再一次看到她走路，看到她的脸；”她可能会说些什么，转过头，看一眼，微笑，也许。”但在他看到她之前，他看到了她的丈夫，站长正恭敬地护送他穿过人群。 '是啊！直到现在，渥伦斯基才第一次清楚地意识到，她身边有一个人，一个丈夫。他知道她有丈夫，但几乎不相信他的存在，直到现在才完全相信他，他的头和肩膀，他的腿都穿着黑色的裤子；尤其是当他看到这个丈夫平静地挽着她的手臂，很有财产感的时候。

Seeing Alexey Alexandrovitch with his Petersburg face and severely self-confident figure, in his round hat, with his rather prominent spine, he believed in him, and was aware of a disagreeable sensation, such as a man might feel tortured by thirst, who, on reaching a spring, should find a dog, a sheep, or a pig, who has drunk of it and muddied the water. Alexey Alexandrovitch’s manner of walking, with a swing of the hips and flat feet, particularly annoyed Vronsky. He could recognize in no one but himself an indubitable right to love her. But she was still the same, and the sight of her affected him the same way, physically reviving him, stirring him, and filling his soul with rapture. He told his German valet, who ran up to him from the second class, to take his things and go on, and he himself went up to her. He saw the first meeting between the husband and wife, and noted with a lover’s insight the signs of slight reserve with which she spoke to her husband. ‘No, she does not love him and cannot love him,’ he decided to himself.
看到阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇长着一张彼得堡的脸，有着极其自信的身材，戴着圆帽，脊椎骨相当突出，他相信他，并意识到一种不舒服的感觉，就像一个人可能会因口渴而感到折磨，谁，到了泉水，应有狗、羊、猪，喝了泉水，水就浑了。阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇的走路方式，臀部摆动和扁平足，尤其惹恼了渥伦斯基。除了他自己之外，他认不出任何人都拥有爱她的无可置疑的权利。但她还是老样子，一见到她，他就受到同样的影响，让他的肉体苏醒，让他激动，让他的灵魂充满狂喜。他让从二等舱跑到他身边的德国男仆拿走他的东西，然后继续前进，而他自己则走到了她身边。他目睹了这对夫妻的第一次会面，并以情人的洞察力注意到她对丈夫说话时略带保留的迹象。 “不，她不爱他，也不可能爱他，”他暗自决定。

At the moment when he was approaching Anna Arkadyevna he noticed too with joy that she was conscious of his being near, and looked round, and seeing him, turned again to her husband.
当他走近安娜·阿尔卡季耶夫娜时，他也高兴地注意到她意识到他在附近，于是他环顾四周，看到他，又转向她的丈夫。

‘Have you passed a good night?’ he asked, bowing to her and her husband together, and leaving it up to Alexey Alexandrovitch to accept the bow on his own account, and to recognize it or not, as he might see fit.
“你们度过了一个美好的夜晚吗？”他问道，同时向她和她的丈夫鞠了一躬，并让阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇自行接受这一鞠躬，并由他认为合适的时候承认或不承认。

‘Thank you, very good,’ she answered.
“谢谢你，很好，”她回答道。

Her face looked weary, and there was not that play of eagerness in it, peeping out in her smile and her eyes; but for a single instant, as she glanced at him, there was a flash of something in her eyes, and although the flash died away at once, he was happy for that moment. She glanced at her husband to find out whether he knew Vronsky. Alexey Alexandrovitch looked at Vronsky with displeasure, vaguely recalling who this was. Vronsky’s composure and self-confidence here struck, like a scythe against a stone, upon the cold self-confidence of Alexey Alexandrovitch.
她的脸看上去很疲倦，从她的微笑和眼睛里看不出那种热切的神情。但有那么一瞬间，当她看向他的时候，她的眼里闪过一丝光芒，虽然那光芒立刻消失了，但那一刻他还是很高兴。她看了一眼她的丈夫，想知道他是否认识渥伦斯基。阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇不满地看着渥伦斯基，隐约想起这是谁。渥伦斯基的冷静和自信，就像镰刀敲打石头一样，打击了阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇的冷漠自信。

‘Count Vronsky,’ said Anna.
“渥伦斯基伯爵，”安娜说。

‘Ah! We are acquainted, I believe,’ said Alexey Alexandrovitch indifferently, giving his hand.
'啊！我相信我们很熟，”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇冷漠地说，伸出了手。

‘You set off with the mother and you return with the son,’ he said, articulating each syllable, as though each were a separate favor he was bestowing.
“你和母亲一起出发，带着儿子回来，”他说，每一个音节都发音清晰，仿佛每个音节都是他给予的一个单独的恩惠。

‘You’re back from leave, I suppose?’ he said, and without waiting for a reply, he turned to his wife in his jesting tone: ‘Well, were a great many tears shed at Moscow at parting?’
“我想你休假回来了？”他说，不等回复，他就用戏谑的语气转向他的妻子：“那么，离别时在莫斯科流了很多眼泪吗？”

By addressing his wife like this he gave Vronsky to understand that he wished to be left alone, and, turning slightly towards him, he touched his hat; but Vronsky turned to Anna Arkadyevna.
通过这样称呼他的妻子，他让渥伦斯基明白他希望一个人呆着，然后他轻轻地转向他，碰了碰帽子；但渥伦斯基转向安娜·阿尔卡季耶芙娜。

‘I hope I may have the honor of calling on you,’ he said.
“我希望我能有幸拜访您，”他说。

Alexey Alexandrovitch glanced with his weary eyes at Vronsky.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇用疲倦的眼睛看了一眼渥伦斯基。

‘Delighted,’ he said coldly. ‘On Mondays we’re at home. Most fortunate,’ he said to his wife, dismissing Vronsky altogether, ‘that I should just have half an hour to meet you, so that I can prove my devotion,’ he went on in the same jesting tone.
“很高兴。”他冷冷地说。 “周一我们都在家。最幸运的是，”他对妻子说，完全不理睬渥伦斯基，“我只有半个小时的时间来见你，这样我就可以证明我的忠诚，”他用同样的开玩笑的语气继续说道。

‘You lay too much stress on your devotion for me to value it much,’ she responded in the same jesting tone, involuntarily listening to the sound of Vronsky’s steps behind them. ‘But what has it to do with me?’ she said to herself, and she began asking her husband how Seryozha had got on without her.
“你太看重你的忠诚了，我根本就不重视它。”她用同样的戏谑语气回答道，同时不由自主地听着身后渥伦斯基的脚步声。 “但这和我有什么关系呢？”她自言自语道，然后她开始问丈夫，没有她，谢廖扎过得怎么样。

‘Oh, capitally! Mariette says he has been very good, And...I must disappoint you...but he has not missed you as your husband has. But once more merci, my dear, for giving me a day. Our dear Samovar will be delighted.’ (He used to call the Countess Lidia Ivanovna, well known in society, a samovar, because she was always bubbling over with excitement.) ‘She has been continually asking after you. And, do you know, if I may venture to advise you, you should go and see her today. You know how she takes everything to heart. Just now, with all her own cares, she’s anxious about the Oblonskys being brought together.’
‘噢，太棒了！玛丽埃特说他一直很好，而且……我一定会让你失望……但他并没有像你丈夫那样想念你。但再次感谢，亲爱的，给我一天的时间。我们亲爱的茶炊会很高兴的。”（他曾把社会上众所周知的莉迪亚·伊万诺夫娜伯爵夫人称为茶炊，因为她总是兴奋不已。）“她一直在关心你。而且，你知道吗，如果我可以斗胆给你建议的话，你今天就应该去见她。你知道她是如何把一切都放在心上的。现在，她满心忧虑，担心奥布朗斯基一家能聚在一起。

The Countess Lidia Ivanovna was a friend of her husband’s, and the center of that one of the coteries of the Petersburg world with which Anna was, through her husband, in the closest relations.
莉迪亚·伊万诺夫娜伯爵夫人是她丈夫的朋友，也是彼得堡世界小圈子之一的中心人物，安娜通过她的丈夫与这个小圈子有着最密切的关系。

‘But you know I wrote to her?’
“但你知道我写信给她吗？”

‘Still she’ll want to hear details. Go and see her, if you’re not too tired, my dear. Well, Kondraty will take you in the carriage, while I go to my committee. I shall not be alone at dinner again,’ Alexey Alexandrovitch went on, no longer in a sarcastic tone. ‘You wouldn’t believe how I’ve missed...’ And with a long pressure of her hand and a meaning smile, he put her in her carriage.
“不过她还是想听听细节。亲爱的，如果你不太累的话，就去看她吧。好吧，康德拉蒂会带你坐马车，而我则去我的委员会。我不会再一个人吃饭了。”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇继续说道，语气不再是讽刺。 “你不会相信我怎么会错过……”他用长长的力压着她的手，带着意味深长的微笑，把她放进了马车里。

Chapter 32
第32章

The first person to meet Anna at home was her son. He dashed down the stairs to her, in spite of the governess’s call, and with desperate joy shrieked: ‘Mother! mother!’ Running up to her, he hung on her neck.
第一个在家见到安娜的人是她的儿子。他不顾家庭女教师的呼唤，冲下楼梯来到她身边，带着绝望的喜悦尖叫道：“妈妈！妈妈！”他跑到她面前，掐住了她的脖子。

‘I told you it was mother!’ he shouted to the governess. ‘I knew!’
“我告诉过你那是妈妈！”他对家庭女教师喊道。 '我知道！'

And her son, like her husband, aroused in Anna a feeling akin to disappointment. She had imagined him better than he was in reality. She had to let herself drop down to the reality to enjoy him as he really was. But even as he was, he was charming, with his fair curls, his blue eyes, and his plump, graceful little legs in tightly pulled-up stockings. Anna experienced almost physical pleasure in the sensation of his nearness, and his caresses, and moral soothing, when she met his simple, confiding, and loving glance, and heard his naive questions. Anna took out the presents Dolly’s children had sent him, and told her son what sort of little girl was Tanya at Moscow, and how Tanya could read, and even taught the other children.
而她的儿子，就像她的丈夫一样，让安娜产生了一种类似于失望的感觉。她想象中的他比现实中的他更好。她必须让自己回到现实，才能享受他本来的样子。但即便如此，他还是很迷人，金色的卷发，蓝色的眼睛，还有那双紧紧拉起的长袜，丰满而优雅的小腿。当安娜看到他单纯、信任和爱意的目光，听到他天真的问题时，她在他的亲近和爱抚中体验到几乎是身体上的快乐，以及精神上的抚慰。安娜拿出多莉的孩子们送给他的礼物，告诉儿子塔尼娅在莫斯科是一个什么样的小女孩，塔尼娅会读书，甚至还教了其他孩子。

‘Why, am I not so nice as she?’ asked Seryozha.
“为什么，我没有她那么好？”谢廖扎问道。

‘To me you’re nicer than anyone in the world.’
“对我来说，你比世界上任何人都好。”

‘I know that,’ said Seryozha, smiling.
“我知道，”谢廖扎微笑着说道。

Anna had not had time to drink her coffee when the Countess Lidia Ivanovna was announced. The Countess Lidia Ivanovna was a tall, stout woman, with an unhealthily sallow face and splendid, pensive black eyes. Anna liked her, but today she seemed to be seeing her for the first time with all her defects.
安娜还没来得及喝咖啡，莉迪亚·伊万诺夫娜伯爵夫人就被宣布了。莉迪亚·伊万诺夫娜伯爵夫人是一位身材高大、粗壮的女人，有着一张病态的蜡黄脸庞和一双明亮而沉思的黑眼睛。安娜喜欢她，但今天她似乎第一次见到她的所有缺点。

‘Well, my dear, so you took the olive branch?’ inquired Countess Lidia Ivanovna, as soon as she came into the room.
“那么，亲爱的，你拿了橄榄枝吗？”莉迪亚·伊万诺夫娜伯爵夫人一进屋就问道。

‘Yes, it’s all over, but it was all much less serious than we had supposed,’ answered Anna. ‘My belle-soeur is in general too hasty.’
“是的，一切都结束了，但事情没有我们想象的那么严重。”安娜回答道。 “我的美女总的来说太仓促了。”

But Countess Lidia Ivanovna, though she was interested in everything that did not concern her, had a habit of never listening to what interested her; she interrupted Anna:
然而，莉迪亚·伊万诺夫娜伯爵夫人虽然对一切与她无关的事情都感兴趣，但她却习惯性地从不听她感兴趣的事情；她打断安娜的话：

‘Yes, there’s plenty of sorrow and evil in the world. I am so worried today.’
是的，世界上有很多悲伤和邪恶。我今天很担心。

‘Oh, why?’ asked Anna, trying to suppress a smile.
“哦，为什么？”安娜问道，试图抑制住笑容。

‘I’m beginning to be weary of fruitlessly championing the truth, and sometimes I’m quite unhinged by it. The Society of the Little Sisters’ (this was a religiously-patriotic, philanthropic institution) ‘was going splendidly, but with these gentlemen it’s impossible to do anything,’ added Countess Lidia Ivanovna in a tone of ironical submission to destiny. ‘They pounce on the idea, and distort it, and then work it out so pettily and unworthily. Two or three people, your husband among them, understand all the importance of the thing, but the others simply drag it down. Yesterday Pravdin wrote to me...’
“我开始厌倦徒劳地捍卫真理，有时我对此感到非常精神错乱。 “小姐妹会”（这是一个宗教爱国慈善机构）“进展得很顺利，但对这些先生来说，什么也做不了”，莉迪亚·伊万诺夫娜伯爵夫人用一种屈服于命运的讽刺语气补充道。 “他们猛烈抨击这个想法，歪曲它，然后又如此琐碎和不值得地把它付诸实施。有两三个人，其中包括你的丈夫，明白这件事的重要性，但其他人只是拖拖拉拉。昨天普拉夫丁写信给我……”

Pravdin was a well-known Panslavist abroad, and Countess Lidia Ivanovna described the purport of his letter.
普拉夫丁是国外著名的泛斯拉夫主义者，莉迪亚·伊万诺芙娜伯爵夫人描述了他这封信的主旨。

Then the countess told her of more disagreements and intrigues against the work of the unification of the churches, and departed in haste, as she had that day to be at the meeting of some society and also at the Slavonic committee.
然后伯爵夫人告诉她关于教会统一工作的更多分歧和阴谋，然后匆忙离开，因为她那天要参加一些社团的会议和斯拉夫委员会。

‘It was all the same before, of course; but why was it I didn’t notice it before?’ Anna asked herself. ‘Or has she been very much irritated today? It’s really ludicrous; her object is doing good; she a Christian, yet she’s always angry; and she always has enemies, and always enemies in the name of Christianity and doing good.’
“当然，以前都是这样。但为什么我之前没有注意到呢？”安娜问自己。或者她今天很生气吗？这实在是太可笑了；她的目标是行善；她是基督徒，但她总是生气；她总是有敌人，而且总是以基督教和行善的名义有敌人。

After Countess Lidia Ivanovna another friend came, the wife of a chief secretary, who told her all the news of the town. At three o’clock she too went away, promising to come to dinner. Alexey Alexandrovitch was at the ministry. Anna, left alone, spent the time till dinner in assisting at her son’s dinner (he dined apart from his parents) and in putting her things in order, and in reading and answering the notes and letters which had accumulated on her table.
莉迪亚·伊万诺芙娜伯爵夫人之后，又来了一位朋友，她是一位首席秘书的妻子，她告诉了她镇上的所有消息。三点钟她也离开了，答应来吃晚饭。阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇当时在内阁任职。只剩下安娜一个人，她在晚餐前一直协助儿子准备晚餐（他与父母分开用餐），整理她的东西，阅读和回复桌上堆积的便条和信件。

The feeling of causeless shame, which she had felt on the journey, and her excitement, too, had completely vanished. In the habitual conditions of her life she felt again resolute and irreproachable.
一路上那种无缘无故的羞耻感，以及兴奋之情，都完全消失了。在她惯常的生活条件下，她再次感到坚定和无可指责。

She recalled with wonder her state of mind on the previous day. ‘What was it? Nothing. Vronsky said something silly, which it was easy to put a stop to, and I answered as I ought to have done. To speak of it to my husband would be unnecessary and out of the question. To speak of it would be to attach importance to what has no importance.’ She remembered how she had told her husband of what was almost a declaration made her at Petersburg by a young man, one of her husband’s subordinates, and how Alexey Alexandrovitch had answered that every woman living in the world was exposed to such incidents, but that he had the fullest confidence in her tact, and could never lower her and himself by jealousy. ‘So then there’s no reason to speak of it? And indeed, thank God, there’s nothing to speak of,’ she told herself.
她惊奇地回忆起前一天的心情。 '它以前如何？没有什么。渥伦斯基说了一些愚蠢的话，很容易制止，而我则按我应该做的那样回答。与我丈夫谈论这件事是没有必要的，也是不可能的。谈论它就等于重视那些不重要的事情。”她记得她如何告诉她的丈夫，这几乎是一个年轻人在彼得堡向她发表的声明，她丈夫的下属之一，以及阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇如何他回答说，世界上每个女人都会遇到这样的事情，但他对她的机智充满信心，绝不会因为嫉妒而贬低她和他自己。 ‘既然如此，那就没有理由谈论它了？事实上，感谢上帝，没什么可说的，”她告诉自己。

Chapter 33
第33章

Alexey Alexandrovitch came back from the meeting of the ministers at four o’clock, but as often happened, he had not time to come in to her. He went into his study to see the people waiting for him with petitions, and to sign some papers brought him by his chief secretary. At dinner time (there were always a few people dining with the Karenins) there arrived an old lady, a cousin of Alexey Alexandrovitch, the chief secretary of the department and his wife, and a young man who had been recommended to Alexey Alexandrovitch for the service. Anna went into the drawing room to receive these guests. Precisely at five o’clock, before the bronze Peter the First clock had struck the fifth stroke, Alexey Alexandrovitch came in, wearing a white tie and evening coat with two stars, as he had to go out directly after dinner. Every minute of Alexey Alexandrovitch’s life was portioned out and occupied. And to make time to get through all that lay before him every day, he adhered to the strictest punctuality. ‘Unhasting and unresting,’ was his motto. He came into the dining hall, greeted everyone, and hurriedly sat down, smiling to his wife.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇四点钟从部长会议回来，但像往常一样，他没有时间来见她。他走进书房，看望拿着请愿书等待他的人们，并签署了首席秘书带给他的一些文件。晚餐时间（总有几个人和卡列宁一家一起吃饭）来了一位老太太，她是部门首席秘书阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇及其妻子的表弟，还有一位被推荐给阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇的年轻人。服务。安娜走进客厅接待这些客人。正好五点钟，彼得一世青铜钟敲响第五下之前，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇进来了，他打着白领带，穿着印有两颗星的晚礼服，因为他吃完晚饭就得直接出去。阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇生命中的每一分钟都被分配和占用。为了腾出时间来完成每天摆在他面前的所有事情，他坚持最严格的准时。他的座右铭是“不慌不忙、不慌不忙”。他走进餐厅，跟大家打招呼，然后赶紧坐下，对着妻子微笑。

‘Yes, my solitude is over. You wouldn’t believe how uncomfortable’ (he laid stress on the word uncomfortable) ‘it is to dine alone.’
“是的，我的孤独结束了。你不会相信”（他强调“不舒服”这个词）“一个人吃饭是多么不舒服。”

At dinner he talked a little to his wife about Moscow matters, and, with a sarcastic smile, asked her after Stepan Arkadyevitch; but the conversation was for the most part general, dealing with Petersburg official and public news. After dinner he spent half an hour with his guests, and again, with a smile, pressed his wife’s hand, withdrew, and drove off to the council. Anna did not go out that evening either to the Princess Betsy Tverskaya, who, hearing of her return, had invited her, nor to the theater, where she had a box for that evening. She did not go out principally because the dress she had reckoned upon was not ready. Altogether, Anna, on turning, after the departure of her guests, to the consideration of her attire, was very much annoyed. She was generally a mistress of the art of dressing well without great expense, and before leaving Moscow she had given her dressmaker three dresses to transform. The dresses had to be altered so that they could not be recognized, and they ought to have been ready three days before. It appeared that two dresses had not been done at all, while the other one had not been altered as Anna had intended. The dressmaker came to explain, declaring that it would be better as she had done it, and Anna was so furious that she felt ashamed when she thought of it afterwards. To regain her serenity completely she went into the nursery, and spent the whole evening with her son, put him to bed herself, signed him with the cross, and tucked him up. She was glad she had not gone out anywhere, and had spent the evening so well. She felt so light-hearted and serene, she saw so clearly that all that had seemed to her so important on her railway journey was only one of the common trivial incidents of fashionable life, and that she had no reason to feel ashamed before anyone else or before herself. Anna sat down at the hearth with an English novel and waited for her husband. Exactly at half-past nine she heard his ring, and he came into the room.
晚餐时，他和妻子谈了一些莫斯科的事情，并带着讽刺的微笑，问她斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇的情况。但谈话大部分都是一般性的，涉及彼得堡的官方和公共新闻。晚饭后，他和客人们待了半个小时，然后再次微笑着握住妻子的手，退下，开车前往议会。那天晚上，安娜既没有出去见贝特西·特维尔斯卡娅公主（她听说她回来了，就邀请了她），也没有去剧院，因为她那天晚上在那里有包厢。她没有出去，主要是因为她指望的那件衣服还没有准备好。总而言之，安娜在客人离开后，考虑到自己的着装，感到非常恼火。她通常是一位不花钱就能穿得漂亮的艺术女主人，在离开莫斯科之前，她给了她的裁缝师三件衣服来改造。衣服必须改一下，以免被认出来，而且应该在三天前准备好。看来有两件衣服根本就没有做好，而另一件则没有按照安娜的意思进行修改。裁缝过来解释，声称照她做的会更好，安娜气得事后想起来都觉得羞愧。为了彻底恢复平静，她走进育儿室，和儿子一起度过了整个晚上，亲自让他上床睡觉，在他身上画了十字，并为他盖好被子。她很庆幸自己没有出去，这一晚过得很愉快。 她感到如此轻松和平静，她如此清楚地看到，在她的铁路旅途中，所有对她来说如此重要的事情都只是时尚生活中常见的琐事之一，她没有理由在别人面前感到羞耻。或者在她自己面前。安娜拿着一本英文小说坐在炉边等待她的丈夫。九点半整，她听到了他的铃声，他走进了房间。

‘Here you are at last!’ she observed, holding out her hand to him.
“你终于来了！”她向他伸出手说道。

He kissed her hand and sat down beside her.
他吻了吻她的手，然后在她身边坐下。

‘Altogether then, I see your visit was a success,’ he said to her.
“总而言之，我认为你的访问很成功，”他对她说。

‘Oh, yes,’ she said, and she began telling him about everything from the beginning: her journey with Countess Vronskaya, her arrival, the accident at the station. Then she described the pity she had felt, first for her brother, and afterwards for Dolly.
“哦，是的，”她说，然后她开始从头开始告诉他一切：她和渥伦斯卡娅伯爵夫人的旅程，她的到来，车站的事故。然后她描述了她所感受到的怜悯，首先是对她的兄弟，后来是对多莉。

‘I imagine one cannot exonerate such a man from blame, though he is your brother,’ said Alexey Alexandrovitch severely.
“我想，即使他是你的兄弟，也不能为这样一个人开脱，”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇严厉地说。

Anna smiled. She knew that he said that simply to show that family considerations could not prevent him from expressing his genuine opinion. She knew that characteristic in her husband, and liked it.
安娜笑了。她知道，他这么说只是为了表明家庭的考虑，并不能阻止他表达自己的真实想法。她知道她丈夫的这一特点，并且喜欢它。

‘I am glad it has all ended so satisfactorily, and that you are back again,’ he went on. ‘Come, what do they say about the new act I have got passed in the council?’
“我很高兴一切都如此圆满地结束了，而且你又回来了，”他继续说道。 “来吧，他们对我在议会通过的新法案有何看法？”

Anna had heard nothing of this act, And she felt conscience-stricken at having been able so readily to forget what was to him of such importance.
安娜对这件事一无所知，她感到良心不安，因为她竟然能够如此轻易地忘记对他来说如此重要的事情。

‘Here, on the other hand, it has made a great sensation,’ he said, with a complacent smile.
“另一方面，在这里，它引起了巨大的轰动，”他带着自满的微笑说道。

She saw that Alexey Alexandrovitch wanted to tell her something pleasant to him about it, and she brought him by questions to telling it. With the same complacent smile he told her of the ovations he had received in consequence of the act he had passed.
她看出阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇想告诉她一些令他高兴的事情，于是她用问题引导他讲述这件事。他带着同样得意的微笑告诉她，他因自己所做的事情而受到了热烈的欢迎。

‘I was very, very glad. It shows that at last a reasonable and steady view of the matter is becoming prevalent among us.’
“我非常非常高兴。这表明我们终于开始普遍对这个问题有一个合理而稳定的看法。

Having drunk his second cup of tea with cream, and bread, Alexey Alexandrovitch got up, and was going towards his study.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇喝完第二杯加奶油和面包的茶后，起身走向书房。

‘And you’ve not been anywhere this evening? You’ve been dull, I expect?’ he said.
‘今晚你哪儿也没去？我猜你很迟钝吧？”他说。

‘Oh, no!’ she answered, getting up after him and accompanying him across the room to his study. ‘What are you reading now?’ she asked.
“哦，不！”她回答道，在他身后起身，陪着他穿过房间来到书房。 “你现在在读什么？”她问。

‘Just now I’m reading Duc de Lille, Poesie des Enfers,’ he answered. ‘A very remarkable book.’
“我现在正在读里尔公爵的《地狱之诗》，”他回答道。 “一本非常了不起的书。”

Anna smiled, as people smile at the weaknesses of those they love, and, putting her hand under his, she escorted him to the door of the study. She knew his habit, that had grown into a necessity, of reading in the evening. She knew, too, that in spite of his official duties, which swallowed up almost the whole of his time, he considered it his duty to keep up with everything of note that appeared in the intellectual world. She knew, too, that he was really interested in books dealing with politics, philosophy, and theology, that art was utterly foreign to his nature; but, in spite of this, or rather, in consequence of it, Alexey Alexandrovitch never passed over anything in the world of art, but made it his duty to read everything. She knew that in politics, in philosophy, in theology, Alexey Alexandrovitch often had doubts, and made investigations; but on questions of art and poetry, and, above all, of music, of which he was totally devoid of understanding, he had the most distinct and decided opinions. He was fond of talking about Shakespeare, Raphael, Beethoven, of the significance of new schools of poetry and music, all of which were classified by him with very conspicuous consistency.
安娜微笑着，就像人们对自己所爱的人的弱点微笑一样，她把手放在他的手下，护送他到书房门口。她知道他晚上读书的习惯，这已经成为一种必需。她还知道，尽管他的公务几乎占据了他全部的时间，但他认为自己有责任跟上知识界出现的一切值得注意的事情。她也知道，他确实对政治、哲学和神学方面的书籍感兴趣，艺术与他的本性完全不同；他对艺术感兴趣。但是，尽管如此，或者更确切地说，因此，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇从未忽视艺术世界中的任何东西，而是以阅读一切为己任。她知道，在政治上，在哲学上，在神学上，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇经常产生怀疑，并进行调查；但在艺术和诗歌的问题上，尤其是在他完全不懂的音乐问题上，他却有最清晰、最坚定的观点。他喜欢谈论莎士比亚、拉斐尔、贝多芬，喜欢谈论新的诗歌和音乐流派的意义，所有这些都被他以非常明显的一致性进行分类。

‘Well, God be with you,’ she said at the door of the study, where a shaded candle and a decanter of water were already put by his armchair. ‘And I’ll write to Moscow.’
“好吧，愿上帝与你同在。”她在书房门口说道，他的扶手椅旁已经放着一支遮光蜡烛和一瓶水。 “我会写信给莫斯科。”

He pressed her hand, and again kissed it.
他握住她的手，再次吻了上去。

‘All the same he’s a good man; truthful, good-hearted, and remarkable in his own line,’ Anna said to herself going back to her room, as though she were defending him to someone who had attacked him and said that one could not love him. ‘But why is it his ears stick out so strangely? Or has he had his hair cut?’
“尽管如此，他是个好人；诚实、善良、在他自己的行列中是杰出的。”回到自己的房间时，安娜自言自语道，仿佛她在为一个攻击他并说人们不能爱他的人辩护。 “可是他的耳朵为什么这么奇怪地伸出来呢？”或者他剪头发了吗？

Precisely at twelve o’clock, when Anna was still sitting at her writing table, finishing a letter to Dolly, she heard the sound of measured steps in slippers, and Alexey Alexandrovitch, freshly washed and combed, with a book under his arm, came in to her.
正是在十二点钟，当安娜还坐在写字台前，写完给多莉的一封信时，她听到了穿着拖鞋的有节奏的脚步声，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇刚洗漱完毕，腋下夹着一本书，走了过来。进入她的身边。

‘It’s time, it’s time,’ said he, with a meaning smile, and he went into their bedroom.
“是时候了，是时候了，”他意味深长地微笑着说，然后走进了他们的卧室。

‘And what right had he to look at him like that?’ thought Anna, recalling Vronsky’s glance at Alexey Alexandrovitch.
“他有什么权利这样看着他？”安娜想起渥伦斯基看阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇的眼神，心想。

Undressing, she went into the bedroom; but her face had none of the eagerness which, during her stay in Moscow, had fairly flashed from her eyes and her smile; on the contrary, now the fire seemed quenched in her, hidden somewhere far away.
她脱掉衣服，走进卧室。但她的脸上没有任何在莫斯科逗留期间从她的眼睛和微笑中闪现出来的热切。相反，现在她体内的火焰似乎已经熄灭，隐藏在很远的地方。

Chapter 34
第34章

When Vronsky went to Moscow from Petersburg, he had left his large set of rooms in Morskaia to his friend and favorite comrade Petritsky.
当渥伦斯基从彼得堡前往莫斯科时，他把他在莫斯卡亚的一大套房间留给了他的朋友和最喜欢的同志彼得里茨基。

Petritsky was a young lieutenant, not particularly well-connected, and not merely not wealthy, but always hopelessly in debt. Towards evening he was always drunk, and he had often been locked up after all sorts of ludicrous and disgraceful scandals, but he was a favorite both of his comrades and his superior officers. On arriving at twelve o’clock from the station at his flat, Vronsky saw, at the outer door, a hired carriage familiar to him. While still outside his own door, as he rang, he heard masculine laughter, the lisp of a feminine voice, and Petritsky’s voice. ‘If that’s one of the villains, don’t let him in!’ Vronsky told the servant not to announce him, and slipped quietly into the first room. Baroness Shilton, a friend of Petritsky’s, with a rosy little face and flaxen hair, resplendent in a lilac satin gown, and filling the whole room, like a canary, with her Parisian chatter, sat at the round table making coffee. Petritsky, in his overcoat, and the cavalry captain Kamerovsky, in full uniform, probably just come from duty, were sitting each side of her.
佩特里茨基是一位年轻的中尉，人脉并不广，不仅不富有，而且总是负债累累。到了晚上，他总是喝得醉醺醺的，而且经常因各种荒唐可耻的丑闻而被关起来，但他是他的同志和上级军官最喜欢的人。十二点钟，渥伦斯基从车站到达他的公寓，他在外门看到一辆他熟悉的租来的马车。当他还在自家门外时，当他按铃时，他听到了男性的笑声、女性的口齿不清的声音和佩特里茨基的声音。 “如果那是坏人，别让他进来！”渥伦斯基吩咐仆人不要通报他的情况，然后悄悄溜进第一个房间。彼得里茨基的朋友希尔顿男爵夫人坐在圆桌旁煮咖啡，她有着一张红润的小脸，一头亚麻色的头发，穿着一件金光闪闪的淡紫色缎子长袍，像金丝雀一样充满了整个房间。身穿大衣的佩特里茨基和身穿全套制服、可能刚下班的骑兵上尉卡麦罗夫斯基分别坐在她的两侧。

‘Bravo! Vronsky!’ shouted Petritsky, jumping up, scraping his chair. ‘Our host himself! Baroness, some coffee for him out of the new coffee pot. Why, we didn’t expect you! Hope you’re satisfied with the ornament of your study,’ he said, indicating the baroness. ‘You know each other, of course?’
‘太棒了！渥伦斯基！”佩特里茨基喊道，他跳了起来，擦着椅子。 ‘我们的主人本人！男爵夫人，用新咖啡壶给他倒点咖啡。为什么，我们没想到你！希望您对书房的装饰感到满意。”他指着男爵夫人说道。 “你们当然认识吗？”

‘I should think so,’ said Vronsky, with a bright smile, pressing the baroness’s little hand. ‘What next! I’m an old friend.’
“我想是的，”渥伦斯基按着男爵夫人的小手，笑容灿烂地说。 '接下来是什么！我是一个老朋友了。

‘You’re home after a journey,’ said the baroness, ‘so I’m flying. Oh, I’ll be off this minute, if I’m in the way.’
“你旅行结束后回家了，”男爵夫人说，“所以我要飞了。”哦，如果我碍事的话，我马上就走。

‘You’re home, wherever you are, baroness,’ said Vronsky. ‘How do you do, Kamerovsky?’ he added, coldly shaking hands with Kamerovsky.
“无论你身在何处，男爵夫人，你都在家了。”渥伦斯基说道。 “你好，卡麦罗夫斯基？”他补充道，冷冷地与卡麦罗夫斯基握手。

‘There, you never know how to say such pretty things,’ said the baroness, turning to Petritsky.
“在那里，你永远不知道如何说出如此漂亮的话，”男爵夫人转向佩特里茨基说道。

‘No; what’s that for? After dinner I say things quite as good.’
'不;那个有什么用途？晚餐后我说的话也同样好。

‘After dinner there’s no credit in them? Well, then, I’ll make you some coffee, so go and wash and get ready,’ said the baroness, sitting down again, and anxiously turning the screw in the new coffee pot. ‘Pierre, give me the coffee,’ she said, addressing Petritsky, whom she called Pierre as a contraction of his surname, making no secret of her relations with him. ‘I’ll put it in.’
‘吃完晚饭，他们就没有信用了？好吧，那我给你泡点咖啡，你去洗漱准备吧。”男爵夫人说着又坐下来，焦急地转动着新咖啡壶的螺丝。 “皮埃尔，给我咖啡，”她对佩特里茨基说，她称他为皮埃尔，是他姓氏的缩写，毫不掩饰她和他的关系。 “我会把它放进去的。”

‘You’ll spoil it!’
“你会毁掉它的！”

‘No, I won’t spoil it! Well, and your wife?’ said the baroness suddenly, interrupting Vronsky’s conversation with his comrade. ‘We’ve been marrying you here. Have you brought your wife?’
‘不，我不会破坏它！那么，你的妻子呢？”男爵夫人突然说道，打断了渥伦斯基与他同伴的谈话。 “我们一直在这里与你结婚。你带你妻子来了吗？

‘No, baroness. I was born a Bohemian, and a Bohemian I shall die.’
“不，男爵夫人。我生来就是一个波西米亚人，我也将是一个波西米亚人。”

‘So much the better, so much the better. Shake hands on it.’
‘那就更好了，更好了。握手吧。

And the baroness, detaining Vronsky, began telling him, with many jokes, about her last new plans of life, asking his advice.
男爵夫人拘留了渥伦斯基，开始用许多笑话向他讲述她最后的新生活计划，并征求他的意见。

‘He persists in refusing to give me a divorce! Well, what am I to do?’ (He was her husband.) ‘Now I want to begin a suit against him. What do you advise? Kamerovsky, look after the coffee; it’s boiling over. You see, I’m engrossed with business! I want a lawsuit, because I must have my property. Do you understand the folly of it, that on the pretext of my being unfaithful to him,’ she said contemptuously, ‘he wants to get the benefit of my fortune.’
‘他执意不肯跟我离婚！好吧，我该怎么办？”（他是她的丈夫。）“现在我想对他提起诉讼。你有什么建议？卡麦罗夫斯基，照顾咖啡；它已经沸腾了。你看，我全神贯注于生意！我想打官司，因为我必须拥有我的财产。你知道这有多愚蠢吗？以我对他不忠为借口，”她轻蔑地说，“他想从我的财产中获益。”

Vronsky heard with pleasure this light-hearted prattle of a pretty woman, agreed with her, gave her half-joking counsel, and altogether dropped at once into the tone habitual to him in talking to such women. In his Petersburg world all people were divided into utterly opposed classes. One, the lower class, vulgar, stupid, and, above all, ridiculous people, who believe that one husband ought to live with the one wife whom he has lawfully married; that a girl should be innocent, a woman modest, and a man manly, self-controlled, and strong; that one ought to bring up one’s children, earn one’s bread, and pay one’s debts; and various similar absurdities. This was the class of old-fashioned and ridiculous people. But there was another class of people, the real people. To this class they all belonged, and in it the great thing was to be elegant, generous, plucky, gay, to abandon oneself without a blush to every passion, and to laugh at everything else.
渥伦斯基高兴地听到了一位漂亮女人的这种轻松愉快的闲聊，同意她的说法，半开玩笑地给了她忠告，并立即完全变成了他与这样的女人交谈时惯用的语气。在他的彼得堡世界里，所有人都被分为完全对立的阶级。一是下层阶级，粗俗，愚蠢，最重要的是，可笑的人，他们认为一个丈夫应该与他合法结婚的一个妻子住在一起；女孩应该纯真，女人应该谦虚，男人应该有男子气概、自制和坚强；一个人应该养育自己的孩子，养活自己的面包，还清自己的债务；以及各种类似的荒唐事。这是一类守旧而可笑的人。但还有另一类人，真正的人。他们都属于这个阶级，在这个阶级中，最伟大的事情就是优雅、慷慨、勇敢、快乐，对每一种激情都毫不羞愧地放弃自己，并对其他一切一笑置之。

For the first moment only, Vronsky was startled after the impression of a quite different world that he had brought with him from Moscow. But immediately as though slipping his feet into old slippers, he dropped back into the light-hearted, pleasant world he had always lived in.
渥伦斯基第一次从莫斯科带来了一个完全不同的世界的印象，感到震惊。但他立刻就像把脚穿上旧拖鞋一样，又回到​​了他一直生活的轻松愉快的世界。

The coffee was never really made, but spluttered over every one, and boiled away, doing just what was required of it—that is, providing much cause for much noise and laughter, and spoiling a costly rug and the baroness’s gown.
咖啡从来没有真正煮好，而是溅到每个人身上，然后煮掉，做了它所需要的事情——也就是说，提供了很多噪音和笑声的理由，并破坏了昂贵的地毯和男爵夫人的礼服。

‘Well now, good-bye, or you’ll never get washed, and I shall have on my conscience the worst sin a gentleman can commit. So you would advise a knife to his throat?’
“好吧，再见，否则你永远洗不干净，我的良心将犯下绅士所能犯下的最严重的罪孽。”那么你会建议用刀架在他的喉咙上吗？

‘To be sure, and manage that your hand may not be far from his lips. He’ll kiss your hand, and all will end satisfactorily,’ answered Vronsky.
“当然，要设法​​让你的手离他的嘴唇不远。”他会亲吻你的手，一切都会圆满结束。”渥伦斯基回答道。

‘So at the Francais!’ and, with a rustle of her skirts, she vanished.
“在法国也是如此！”随着裙子沙沙作响，她消失了。

Kamerovsky got up too, and Vronsky, not waiting for him to go, shook hands and went off to his dressing room.
卡麦罗夫斯基也站了起来，渥伦斯基不等他走，就和他握手，然后走向更衣室。

While he was washing, Petritsky described to him in brief outlines his position, as far as it had changed since Vronsky had left Petersburg. No money at all. His father said he wouldn’t give him any and pay his debts. His tailor was trying to get him locked up, and another fellow, too, was threatening to get him locked up. The colonel of the regiment had announced that if these scandals did not cease he would have to leave. As for the baroness, he was sick to death of her, especially since she’d taken to offering continually to lend him money. But he had found a girl—he’d show her to Vronsky—a marvel, exquisite, in the strict Oriental style, ‘genre of the slave Rebecca, don’t you know.’ He’d had a row, too, with Berkoshov, and was going to send seconds to him, but of course it would come to nothing. Altogether everything was supremely amusing and jolly. And, not letting his comrade enter into further details of his position, Petritsky proceeded to tell him all the interesting news. As he listened to Petritsky’s familiar stories in the familiar setting of the rooms he had spent the last three years in, Vronsky felt a delightful sense of coming back to the careless Petersburg life that he was used to.
当他洗澡的时候，佩特里茨基向他简要描述了自己的立场，以及自从渥伦斯基离开彼得堡以来情况发生的变化。根本没钱。他的父亲说他不会给他任何东西并偿还他的债务。他的裁缝试图把他关起来，另一个人也威胁要把他关起来。该团的上校宣布，如果这些丑闻不停止，他就必须离开。至于男爵夫人，他实在是烦死她了，尤其是她还不断地借钱给他。但他找到了一个女孩——他会把她展示给渥伦斯基——一个奇迹，精致，具有严格的东方风格，“奴隶丽贝卡的风格，你不知道吗。”他也和他发生过争吵。别尔科绍夫，本来打算给他发几条消息，但当然不会有结果。总而言之，一切都非常有趣和愉快。佩特里茨基没有让他的同志进一步了解他的立场，而是继续告诉他所有有趣的消息。当渥伦斯基在他过去三年呆过的熟悉的房间里听着彼得里茨基熟悉的故事时，他有一种回到他习惯的无忧无虑的彼得堡生活的愉快感觉。

‘Impossible!’ he cried, letting down the pedal of the washing basin in which he had been sousing his healthy red neck. ‘Impossible!’ he cried, at the news that Laura had flung over Fertinghof and had made up to Mileev. ‘And is he as stupid and pleased as ever? Well, and how’s Buzulukov?’
“不可能！”他喊道，放下了洗脸盆的踏板，他一直在洗脸盆里浸泡健康的红脖子。 “不可能！”得知劳拉已经越过费廷霍夫并向米列夫和解的消息后，他喊道。 “他还像以前一样愚蠢而高兴吗？”嗯，布祖卢科夫怎么样？

‘Oh, there is a tale about Buzulukov—simply lovely!’ cried Petritsky. ‘You know his weakness for balls, and he never misses a single court ball. He went to a big ball in a new helmet. Have you seen the new helmets? Very nice, lighter. Well, so he’s standing.... No, I say, do listen.’
“哦，有一个关于布祖卢科夫的故事——太可爱了！”佩特里茨基喊道。 “你知道他在球方面的弱点，他从不错过任何一个球场球。他戴着新头盔去参加一个大型舞会。你见过新头盔吗？非常好，比较轻。好吧，所以他站着……不，我说，听着。

‘I am listening,’ answered Vronsky, rubbing himself with a rough towel.
“我在听。”渥伦斯基一边回答，一边用一条粗糙的毛巾擦着自己。

‘Up comes the Grand Duchess with some ambassador or other, and, as ill-luck would have it, she begins talking to him about the new helmets. The Grand Duchess positively wanted to show the new helmet to the ambassador. They see our friend standing there.’ (Petritsky mimicked how he was standing with the helmet.) ‘The Grand Duchess asked him to give her the helmet; he doesn’t give it to her. What do you think of that? Well, every one’s winking at him, nodding, frowning—give it to her, do! He doesn’t give it to her. He’s mute as a fish. Only picture it!... Well, the...what’s his name, whatever he was...tries to take the helmet from him...he won’t give it up!... He pulls it from him, and hands it to the Grand Duchess. ‘Here, your Highness,’ says he, ‘is the new helmet.’ She turned the helmet the other side up, And—just picture it!—plop went a pear and sweetmeats out of it, two pounds of sweetmeats!...He’d been storing them up, the darling!’
“大公夫人带着一些大使或其他人出现了，不幸的是，她开始与他谈论新头盔。大公夫人非常想向大使展示新头盔。他们看到我们的朋友站在那里。”（佩特里茨基模仿他戴着头盔站着的样子。）“大公夫人让他把头盔给她；他把头盔给了她。他不给她。你对那个怎么想的？好吧，每个人都对他眨眼、点头、皱眉——把它给她，做吧！他不给她。他像鱼一样沉默。只要想象一下！...好吧，那个...他叫什么名字，不管他是什么...试图从他身上夺走头盔...他不会放弃它！...他把它从他身上拉下来，并将其交给大公夫人。 “这是殿下，”他说，“这是新头盔。”她把头盔的另一面朝上，然后——想象一下吧！——扑通一声，一个梨子和甜食从里面出来了，两磅甜食！ “亲爱的，他一直在储存它们！”

Vronsky burst into roars of laughter. And long afterwards, when he was talking of other things, he broke out into his healthy laugh, showing his strong, close rows of teeth, when he thought of the helmet.
渥伦斯基突然放声大笑。很久以后，当他谈论其他事情时，当他想到头盔时，他就会爆发出健康的笑声，露出他坚固而紧密的牙齿。

Having heard all the news, Vronsky, with the assistance of his valet, got into his uniform, and went off to report himself. He intended, when he had done that, to drive to his brother’s and to Betsy’s and to pay several visits with a view to beginning to go into that society where he might meet Madame Karenina. As he always did in Petersburg, he left home not meaning to return till late at night.
听到这个消息后，渥伦斯基在贴身男仆的帮助下穿上制服，前去报到。当他这样做之后，他打算开车去他哥哥和贝特西家，并进行几次访问，以期开始进入那个社会，在那里他可能会遇到卡列尼娜夫人。正如他在彼得堡时常做的那样，他离开家直到深夜才回来。

PART TWO
第二部分

Chapter 1
第1章

At the end of the winter, in the Shtcherbatskys’ house, a consultation was being held, which was to pronounce on the state of Kitty’s health and the measures to be taken to restore her failing strength. She had been ill, and as spring came on she grew worse. The family doctor gave her cod liver oil, then iron, then nitrate of silver, but as the first and the second and the third were alike in doing no good, and as his advice when spring came was to go abroad, a celebrated physician was called in. The celebrated physician, a very handsome man, still youngish, asked to examine the patient. He maintained, with peculiar satisfaction, it seemed, that maiden modesty is a mere relic of barbarism, and that nothing could be more natural than for a man still youngish to handle a young girl naked. He thought it natural because he did it every day, and felt and thought, as it seemed to him, no harm as he did it and consequently he considered modesty in the girl not merely as a relic of barbarism, but also as an insult to himself.
冬末，在谢尔巴茨基夫妇的家里，正在举行一次咨询会，目的是宣布基蒂的健康状况以及恢复她日渐衰弱的体力所需采取的措施。她本来就生过病，随着春天的到来，她的病情变得更加严重。家庭医生给了她鱼肝油，然后是铁剂，然后是硝酸银，但由于第一个、第二个和第三个都没有什么效果，而且春天来了他的建议是出国，一位著名的医生那位著名的医生进来了，他是一位非常英俊的男人，还很年轻，要求给病人做检查。他似乎非常满意地坚持认为，处女的端庄只不过是野蛮的遗风，没有什么比一个还年轻的男人赤身裸体地抚摸年轻女孩更自然的了。他认为这是很自然的，因为他每天都这样做，并且感觉和认为，在他看来，他这样做并没有什么害处，因此他认为女孩的谦虚不仅是野蛮的遗风，而且是对他的侮辱。他自己。

There was nothing for it but to submit, since, although all the doctors had studied in the same school, had read the same books, and learned the same science, and though some people said this celebrated doctor was a bad doctor, in the princess’s household and circle it was for some reason accepted that this celebrated doctor alone had some special knowledge, and that he alone could save Kitty. After a careful examination and sounding of the bewildered patient, dazed with shame, the celebrated doctor, having scrupulously washed his hands, was standing in the drawing room talking to the prince. The prince frowned and coughed, listening to the doctor. As a man who had seen something of life, and neither a fool nor an invalid, he had no faith in medicine, and in his heart was furious at the whole farce, specially as he was perhaps the only one who fully comprehended the cause of Kitty’s illness. ‘Conceited blockhead!’ he thought, as he listened to the celebrated doctor’s chatter about his daughter’s symptoms. The doctor was meantime with difficulty restraining the expression of his contempt for this old gentleman, and with difficulty condescending to the level of his intelligence. He perceived that it was no good talking to the old man, and that the principal person in the house was the mother. Before her he decided to scatter his pearls. At that instant the princess came into the drawing room with the family doctor. The prince withdrew, trying not to show how ridiculous he thought the whole performance. The princess was distracted, and did not know what to do. She felt she had sinned against Kitty.
没有什么办法，只能服从，因为虽然所有的医生都在同一所学校学习，读过同样的书，学过同样的科学，尽管有人说这位名医是个坏医生，但在公主的医院里，出于某种原因，家庭和圈子都认为，只有这位著名的医生拥有一些特殊的知识，而且只有他才能拯救基蒂。这位名医对这位因羞愧而茫然不知所措的病人进行了仔细的检查和探诊后，认真地洗手，站在客厅里与王子交谈。王子皱着眉头，咳嗽着，听着医生的话。作为一个见识过生命的人，既不是傻子，也不是病人，他对医学没有信心，心里对整场闹剧感到愤怒，尤其是他可能是唯一一个完全明白事情起因的人。凯蒂的病。 “自负的傻瓜！”当他听着这位著名医生喋喋不休地谈论他女儿的症状时，他想。医生此时难掩对这位老先生的蔑视，也难以屈尊于他的智力水平。他意识到和老人说话是没有好处的，家里的主要人物是母亲。他决定在她面前撒下他的珍珠。就在这时，公主带着家庭医生走进了客厅。王子退了出去，试图不表现出他认为整个表演有多么荒谬。公主心烦意乱，不知道该怎么办。她觉得自己得罪了凯蒂。

‘Well, doctor, decide our fate,’ said the princess. ‘Tell me everything.’
“好吧，医生，决定我们的命运吧，”公主说道。 '告诉我一切。'

‘Is there hope?’ she meant to say, but her lips quivered, and she could not utter the question. ‘Well, doctor?’
“还有希望吗？”她想说，但嘴唇颤抖着，说不出话来。 “怎么样，医生？”

‘Immediately, princess. I will talk it over with my colleague, and then I will have the honor of laying my opinion before you.’
‘马上，公主。我会和我的同事讨论一下，然后我将荣幸地向您提出我的意见。

‘So we had better leave you?’
“所以我们最好离开你？”

‘As you please.’
“随你便吧。”

The princess went out with a sigh.
公主叹了一口气，出去了。

When the doctors were left alone, the family doctor began timidly explaining his opinion, that there was a commencement of tuberculous trouble, but...and so on. The celebrated doctor listened to him, and in the middle of his sentence looked at his big gold watch.
当医生们独自一人时，家庭医生开始胆怯地解释他的观点，即结核病开始出现，但是……等等。名医听着他的话，说话间看了一眼自己的大金表。

‘Yes,’ said he. ‘But...’
“是的，”他说。 '但...'

The family doctor respectfully ceased in the middle of his observations.
家庭医生观察到一半就恭敬地停了下来。

‘The commencement of the tuberculous process we are not, as you are aware, able to define; till there are cavities, there is nothing definite. But we may suspect it. And there are indications; malnutrition, nervous excitability, and so on. The question stands thus: in presence of indications of tuberculous process, what is to be done to maintain nutrition?’
‘如您所知，我们无法定义结核病过程的开始；在出现空洞之前，没有什么是确定的。但我们可能会怀疑。并且有迹象表明；营养不良、神经兴奋等。问题是这样的：在出现结核病迹象的情况下，应该采取什么措施来维持营养？

‘But, you know, there are always moral, spiritual causes at the back in these cases,’ the family doctor permitted himself to interpolate with a subtle smile.
“但是，你知道，这些病例的背后总是有道德、精神上的原因，”家庭医生微笑着插话道。

‘Yes, that’s an understood thing,’ responded the celebrated physician, again glancing at his watch. ‘Beg pardon, is the Yausky bridge done yet, or shall I have to drive around?’ he asked. ‘Ah! it is. Oh, well, then I can do it in twenty minutes. So we were saying the problem may be put thus: to maintain nutrition and to give tone to the nerves. The one is in close connection with the other, one must attack both sides at once.’
“是的，这是一个可以理解的事情，”这位著名的医生回答道，再次看了一眼手表。 “请问，Yausky 桥已经完工了吗？还是我得开车绕一圈？”他问道。 '啊！这是。哦，好吧，那我二十分钟内就能搞定。所以我们说这个问题可以这样表述：保持营养并调节神经。二者紧密相连，必须同时进攻。

‘And how about a tour abroad?’ asked the family doctor.
“出国旅游怎么样？”家庭医生问道。

‘I’ve no liking for foreign tours. And take note: if there is an early stage of tuberculous process, of which we cannot be certain, a foreign tour will be of no use. What is wanted is means of improving nutrition, and not for lowering it.’ And the celebrated doctor expounded his plan of treatment with Soden waters, a remedy obviously prescribed primarily on the ground that they could do no harm.
“我不喜欢出国旅游。请注意：如果结核病处于早期阶段，而我们无法确定这一点，那么出国旅行将毫无用处。我们需要的是改善营养的方法，而不是降低营养的方法。”这位著名的医生阐述了他用索登水治疗的计划，这种疗法显然主要是因为它们不会造成伤害。

The family doctor listened attentively and respectfully.
家庭医生恭敬地听着。

‘But in favor of foreign travel I would urge the change of habits, the removal from conditions calling up reminiscences. And then the mother wishes it,’ he added.
“但为了支持出国旅行，我会敦促人们改变习惯，摆脱唤起回忆的环境。然后母亲就希望如此，”他补充道。

‘Ah! Well, in that case, to be sure, let them go. Only, those German quacks are mischievous.... They ought to be persuaded.... Well, let them go then.’
'啊！好吧，既然如此，那当然就让他们走吧。只是，那些德国江湖庸医太调皮了……应该说服他们……好吧，那就让他们走吧。

He glanced once more at his watch.
他又看了一眼手表。

‘Oh! time’s up already,’ And he went to the door. The celebrated doctor announced to the princess (a feeling of what was due from him dictated his doing so) that he ought to see the patient once more.
'哦！时间已经到了。”然后他向门口走去。这位著名的医生向公主宣布（一种他应得的感觉决定了他这样做）他应该再次去看病人。

‘What! another examination!’ cried the mother, with horror.
'什么！ “又是一次检查！”母亲惊恐地喊道。

‘Oh, no, only a few details, princess.’
“哦，不，只有一些细节，公主。”

‘Come this way.’
“这边过来。”

And the mother, accompanied by the doctor, went into the drawing room to Kitty. Wasted and flushed, with a peculiar glitter in her eyes, left there by the agony of shame she had been put through, Kitty stood in the middle of the room. When the doctor came in she flushed crimson, and her eyes filled with tears. All her illness and treatment struck her as a thing so stupid, ludicrous even! Doctoring her seemed to her as absurd as putting together the pieces of a broken vase. Her heart was broken. Why would they try to cure her with pills and powders? But she could not grieve her mother, especially as her mother considered herself to blame.
母亲在医生的陪同下，走进客厅去看基蒂。凯蒂站在房间中央，脸色憔悴，脸色通红，眼睛里闪烁着一种奇特的光芒，这是她所经历的耻辱的痛苦所留下的。当医生进来时，她脸色涨红，眼里充满了泪水。她所有的疾病和治疗都让她觉得是愚蠢的，甚至可笑的！在她看来，对她进行治疗就像把破花瓶的碎片拼凑起来一样荒谬。她的心碎了。他们为什么要尝试用药丸和粉末来治疗她？但她不能让母亲悲伤，尤其是她母亲认为自己应该受到责备。

‘May I trouble you to sit down, princess?’ the celebrated doctor said to her.
“公主，可以麻烦您坐下吗？”这位著名的医生对她说道。

He sat down with a smile, facing her, felt her pulse, and again began asking her tiresome questions. She answered him, and all at once got up, furious.
他微笑着坐下来，面对着她，摸了摸她的脉搏，然后又开始问她一些烦人的问题。她回答了他，然后立刻站了起来，愤怒极了。

‘Excuse me, doctor, but there is really no object in this. This is the third time you’ve asked me the same thing.’
“对不起，医生，但这确实没有什么目的。这是你第三次问我同样的事情了。

The celebrated doctor did not take offense.
这位著名的医生并没有生气。

‘Nervous irritability,’ he said to the princess, when Kitty had left the room. ‘However, I had finished...’
“神经过敏，”当基蒂离开房间时，他对公主说。 「不过，我已经完成了……」

And the doctor began scientifically explaining to the princess, as an exceptionally intelligent woman, the condition of the young princess, and concluded by insisting on the drinking of the waters, which were certainly harmless. At the question: Should they go abroad? the doctor plunged into deep meditation, as though resolving a weighty problem. Finally his decision was pronounced: they were to go abroad, but to put no faith in foreign quacks, and to apply to him in any need.
作为一位非常聪明的女人，医生开始向公主科学地解释年轻公主的状况，最后坚持要喝这些水，这些水当然是无害的。问：他们应该出国吗？医生陷入了沉思，仿佛在解决一个重大问题。最后他宣布了决定：他们要出国，但不要相信外国庸医，有任何需要都可以向他申请。

It seemed as though some piece of good fortune had come to pass after the doctor had gone. The mother was much more cheerful when she went back to her daughter, and Kitty pretended to be more cheerful. She had often, almost always, to be pretending now.
医生走后，似乎有什么好运气降临了。当母亲回到女儿身边时，心情愉快多了，基蒂也假装心情愉快。她现在常常、几乎总是在假装。

‘Really, I’m quite well, mamma. But if you want to go abroad, let’s go!’ she said, and trying to appear interested in the proposed tour, she began talking of the preparations for the journey.
“真的，我很好，妈妈。但如果你想出国，那就走吧！”她说，并试图表现出对拟议的旅行感兴趣，并开始谈论这次旅行的准备工作。

Chapter 2
第2章

Soon after the doctor, Dolly had arrived. She knew that there was to be a consultation that day, and though she was only just up after her confinement (she had another baby, a little girl, born at the end of the winter), though she had trouble and anxiety enough of her own, she had left her tiny baby and a sick child, to come and hear Kitty’s fate, which was to be decided that day.
医生过后不久，多莉就到了。她知道那天要进行会诊，虽然她产后才刚刚起床（她又生了一个孩子，一个小女孩，在冬末出生），尽管她已经有足够的麻烦和焦虑了。她自己留下了她的小婴儿和一个生病的孩子，来听听凯蒂的命运，这将在那天决定。

‘Well, well?’ she said, coming into the drawing room, without taking off her hat. ‘You’re all in good spirits. Good news, then?’
“好吧，好吧？”她走进客厅，没有摘下帽子。 ‘你们的精神都很好。那么好消息吗？

They tried to tell her what the doctor had said, but it appeared that though the doctor had talked distinctly enough and at great length, it was utterly impossible to report what he had said. The only point of interest was that it was settled they should go abroad.
他们试图告诉她医生说的话，但似乎医生虽然说得够清楚、够长，但完全不可能报告他所说的内容。唯一有趣的是他们决定出国。

Dolly could not help sighing. Her dearest friend, her sister, was going away. And her life was not a cheerful one. Her relations with Stepan Arkadyevitch after their reconciliation had become humiliating. The union Anna had cemented turned out to be of no solid character, and family harmony was breaking down again at the same point. There had been nothing definite, but Stepan Arkadyevitch was hardly ever at home; money, too, was hardly ever forthcoming, and Dolly was continually tortured by suspicions of infidelity, which she tried to dismiss, dreading the agonies of jealousy she had been through already. The first onslaught of jealousy, once lived through, could never come back again, and even the discovery of infidelities could never now affect her as it had the first time. Such a discovery now would only mean breaking up family habits, and she let herself be deceived, despising him and still more herself, for the weakness. Besides this, the care of her large family was a constant worry to her: first, the nursing of her young baby did not go well, then the nurse had gone away, now one of the children had fallen ill.
多莉忍不住叹了口气。她最亲爱的朋友，她的妹妹，要走了。而她的生活也并不幸福。她与斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇和解后，他们的关系变得令人羞辱。事实证明，安娜所巩固的婚姻并不牢固，家庭的和谐也在同一时刻再次破裂。虽然没有什么确定的事情，但斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇却几乎不在家。钱也很难得到，多莉不断地受到不忠嫌疑的折磨，她试图消除这种怀疑，害怕她已经经历过的嫉妒的痛苦。第一次嫉妒的冲击一旦经历过，就再也不会回来了，即使是发现不忠，现在也不会像第一次那样对她产生影响。现在这样的发现只会意味着打破家庭习惯，而她却让自己被欺骗了，鄙视他，更鄙视自己的弱点。除此之外，照顾她这个大家庭一直是她的烦恼：首先，她的小婴儿的护理不顺利，然后护士走了，现在其中一个孩子生病了。

‘Well, how are all of you?’ asked her mother.
“嗯，你们都好吗？”她妈妈问。

‘Ah, mamma, we have plenty of troubles of our own. Lili is ill, and I’m afraid it’s scarlatina. I have come here now to hear about Kitty, and then I shall shut myself up entirely, if—God forbid—it should be scarlatina.’
“啊，妈妈，我们自己也有很多麻烦。莉莉病了，恐怕是猩红热。我现在来这里是为了听听基蒂的事，然后我会把自己完全封闭起来，如果——上帝保佑——那是猩红病毒。

The old prince too had come in from his study after the doctor’s departure, and after presenting his cheek to Dolly, and saying a few words to her, he turned to his wife:
医生离开后，老王子也从书房回来了，他把脸颊凑到多莉面前，对她说了几句话，然后转向他的妻子：

‘How have you settled it? you’re going? Well, and what do you mean to do with me?’
‘你是怎么解决的？你要去吗？好吧，你想对我做什么？

‘I suppose you had better stay here, Alexander,’ said his wife.
“我想你最好留在这里，亚历山大，”他的妻子说。

‘That’s as you like.’
“随你便吧。”

‘Mamma, why shouldn’t father come with us?’ said Kitty. ‘It would be nicer for him and for us too.’
“妈妈，爸爸为什么不和我们一起去呢？”基蒂说。 “这对他和我们来说都会更好。”

The old prince got up and stroked Kitty’s hair. She lifted her head and looked at him with a forced smile. It always seemed to her that he understood her better than anyone in the family, though he did not say much about her. Being the youngest, she was her father’s favorite, and she fancied that his love gave him insight. When now her glance met his blue kindly eyes looking intently at her, it seemed to her that he saw right through her, and understood all that was not good that was passing within her. Reddening, she stretched out towards him expecting a kiss, but he only patted her hair and said:
老王子站起来，抚摸凯蒂的头发。她抬起头，苦笑着看着他。在她看来，他似乎比家里的任何人都更了解她，尽管他很少谈论她。作为最小的孩子，她是父亲的最爱，她认为他的爱给了他洞察力。现在，当她的目光与他专注地注视着她的蓝色慈祥的眼睛相遇时，她觉得他仿佛看穿了她，并且了解了她内心的所有不好的事情。她红着脸，向他伸了个懒腰，期待着亲吻，但他只是拍拍她的头发，说道：

‘These stupid chignons! There’s no getting at the real daughter. One simply strokes the bristles of dead women. Well, Dolinka,’ he turned to his elder daughter, ‘what’s your young buck about, hey?’
‘这些愚蠢的发髻！没有真正的女儿。人们只需抚摸死去妇女的鬃毛即可。好吧，多林卡，”他转向他的大女儿，“你这个小家伙在做什么，嘿？”

‘Nothing, father,’ answered Dolly, understanding that her husband was meant. ‘He’s always out; I scarcely ever see him,’ she could not resist adding with a sarcastic smile.
“没什么，父亲。”多莉回答道，她明白这是她丈夫的意思。 “他总是外出；我几乎没见过他。”她忍不住讽刺地笑着补充道。

‘Why, hasn’t he gone into the country yet—to see about selling that forest?’
“怎么，他还没有到乡下去看看出售那片森林的事吗？”

‘No, he’s still getting ready for the journey.’
“不，他还在为旅程做准备。”

‘Oh, that’s it!’ said the prince. ‘And so am I to be getting ready for a journey too? At your service,’ he said to his wife, sitting down. ‘And I tell you what, Katia,’ he went on to his younger daughter, ‘you must wake up one fine day and say to yourself: Why, I’m quite well, and merry, and going out again with father for an early morning walk in the frost. Hey?’
“哦，就是这样！”王子说。 “那我也该准备踏上旅程了吗？”为您服务，”他坐下来对妻子说道。 “我告诉你，卡蒂亚，”他继续对他的小女儿说，“你必须在一个晴朗的日子醒来，对自己说：哎呀，我很好，很快乐，又和父亲一起出去玩了。”清晨在霜冻中行走。嘿？'

What her father said seemed simple enough, yet at these words Kitty became confused and overcome like a detected criminal. ‘Yes, he sees it all, he understands it all, and in these words he’s telling me that though I’m ashamed, I must get over my shame.’ She could not pluck up spirit to make any answer. She tried to begin, and all at once burst into tears, and rushed out of the room.
父亲说的话看似简单，但听到这句话，基蒂却像一个被侦破的罪犯一样迷茫、不知所措。 “是的，他看到了这一切，他明白了这一切，他用这些话告诉我，虽然我感到羞耻，但我必须克服我的羞耻。”她无法鼓起勇气做出任何回答。她刚想开口，却突然泪流满面，冲出了房间。

‘See what comes of your jokes!’ the princess pounced down on her husband. ‘You’re always...’ she began a string of reproaches.
“看看你的笑话会开出什么花样！”公主扑向她的丈夫。 “你总是……”她开始了一连串的责备。

The prince listened to the princess’s scolding rather a long while without speaking, but his face was more and more frowning.
王子听着公主的责骂，半晌没有说话，脸色却是越皱越紧。

‘She’s so much to be pitied, poor child, so much to be pitied, and you don’t feel how it hurts her to hear the slightest reference to the cause of it. Ah! to be so mistaken in people!’ said the princess, and by the change in her tone both Dolly and the prince knew she was speaking of Vronsky. ‘I don’t know why there aren’t laws against such base, dishonorable people.’
“她太值得可怜了，可怜的孩子，太值得可怜了，你不会感觉到听到哪怕一点点提及事情的起因，她会感到多么痛苦。啊!公主说，从她语气的变化，多莉和王子都知道她说的是渥伦斯基。 “我不知道为什么没有针对这些卑鄙、不光彩的人的法律。”

‘Ah, I can’t bear to hear you!’ said the prince gloomily, getting up from his low chair, and seeming anxious to get away, yet stopping in the doorway. ‘There are laws, madam, and since you’ve challenged me to it, I’ll tell you who’s to blame for it all: you and you, you and nobody else. Laws against such young gallants there have always been, and there still are! Yes, if there has been nothing that ought not to have been, old as I am, I’d have called him out to the barrier, the young dandy. Yes, and now you physic her and call in these quacks.’
“啊，我不忍心听你说话！”王子阴沉地说，从矮椅子上站起来，似乎急于离开，却在门口停了下来。 “法律是有的，女士，既然你向我提出了挑战，我就告诉你谁应该为这一切负责：你和你，你和其他人。针对这些年轻勇者的法律一直存在，而且仍然存在！是的，如果没有什么不该发生的事情的话，像我这么大的年纪，我就会把他这个年轻的花花公子叫到栅栏去。是的，现在你给她看病，然后叫来这些庸医。”

The prince apparently had plenty more to say, but as soon as the princess heard his tone she subsided at once, and became penitent, as she always did on serious occasions.
王子显然还有很多话要说，但公主一听到他的语气，立刻就平静下来，开始忏悔，就像她在严肃场合总是做的那样。

‘Alexander, Alexander,’ she whispered, moving to him and beginning to weep.
“亚历山大，亚历山大，”她低声说道，走到他身边，开始哭泣。

As soon as she began to cry the prince too calmed down. He went up to her.
当她开始哭泣时，王子也平静下来。他走到她身边。

‘There, that’s enough, that’s enough! You’re wretched too, I know. It can’t be helped. There’s no great harm done. God is merciful...thanks...’ he said, not knowing what he was saying, as he responded to the tearful kiss of the princess that he felt on his hand. And the prince went out of the room.
‘好了，够了，够了！你也很可怜，我知道。这是没办法的事。没有造成太大的伤害。上帝是仁慈的……谢谢……”他不知道自己在说什么，一边回应着公主在他手上流着泪的吻。王子走出了房间。

Before this, as soon as Kitty went out of the room in tears, Dolly, with her motherly, family instincts, had promptly perceived that here a woman’s work lay before her, and she prepared to do it. She took off her hat, and, morally speaking, tucked up her sleeves and prepared for action. While her mother was attacking her father, she tried to restrain her mother, so far as filial reverence would allow. During the prince’s outburst she was silent; she felt ashamed for her mother, and tender towards her father for so quickly being kind again. But when her father left them she made ready for what was the chief thing needful—to go to Kitty and console her.
在此之前，当基蒂泪流满面地走出房间时，多莉带着她母亲般的家庭本能，立刻意识到这里有一个女人的工作摆在她面前，她准备去做。她摘下帽子，从道义上讲，挽起袖子，准备行动。当她的母亲攻击她的父亲时，她试图在孝道允许的范围内约束她的母亲。王子发脾气的时候，她沉默不语。她为母亲感到羞耻，又为父亲这么快又变得友善而感到温柔。但当她父亲离开他们后，她做好了最重要的准备——去找基蒂安慰她。

‘I’d been meaning to tell you something for a long while, mamma: did you know that Levin meant to make Kitty an offer when he was here the last time? He told Stiva so.’
“我一直想告诉你一件事，妈妈：你知道莱文上次来这里时打算向基蒂提出要约吗？他是这么告​​诉斯蒂瓦的。”

‘Well, what then? I don’t understand...’
‘那么，然后呢？我不明白...'

‘So did Kitty perhaps refuse him?... She didn’t tell you so?’
“那么基蒂也许拒绝了他吗？……她没有告诉你吗？”

‘No, she has said nothing to me either of one or the other; she’s too proud. But I know it’s all on account of the other.’
“不，她没有对我说过任何一句话；”她太骄傲了。但我知道这都是因为对方。”

‘Yes, but suppose she has refused Levin, and she wouldn’t have refused him if it hadn’t been for the other, I know. And then, he has deceived her so horribly.’
“是的，但假设她拒绝了莱文，如果不是对方，她也不会拒绝他，我知道。然后，他欺骗了她，真是太可怕了。”

It was too terrible for the princess to think how she had sinned against her daughter, and she broke out angrily.
公主想想自己是如何得罪了自己的女儿，真是太可怕了，她愤怒地爆发了。

‘Oh, I really don’t understand! Nowadays they will all go their own way, and mothers haven’t a word to say in anything, and then...’
‘哦，我实在是不明白！现在他们各走各的路，母亲也无话可说，然后……”

‘Mamma, I’ll go up to her.’
“妈妈，我去见她。”

‘Well, do. Did I tell you not to?’ said her mother.
'干的好。 “我有告诉过你不要这么做吗？”她母亲问道。

Chapter 3
第3章

When she went into Kitty’s little room, a pretty, pink little room, full of knick-knacks in vieux saxe, as fresh, and pink, and white, and gay as Kitty herself had been two months ago, Dolly remembered how they had decorated the room the year before together, with what love and gaiety. Her heart turned cold when she saw Kitty sitting on a low chair near the door, her eyes fixed immovably on a corner of the rug. Kitty glanced at her sister, and the cold, rather ill-tempered expression of her face did not change.
当她走进基蒂的小房间时，这是一间漂亮的粉红色小房间，里面摆满了老萨克斯的小摆设，就像两个月前基蒂本人一样新鲜、粉红色、白色和快乐，多莉记得他们是如何装饰的。去年一起的房间，充满了爱和欢乐。当她看到凯蒂坐在靠近门的一张矮椅上，目光一动不动地盯着地毯的一角时，她的心就凉了。凯蒂看了姐姐一眼，脸上冰冷而有些暴躁的表情没有变化。

‘I’m just going now, and I shall have to keep in and you won’t be able to come to see me,’ said Dolly, sitting down beside her. ‘I want to talk to you.’
“我现在要走了，我得留在家里，你就不能来看我了，”多莉在她旁边坐下说。 '我想跟你说话。'

‘What about?’ Kitty asked swiftly, lifting her head in dismay.
“那又怎样？”凯蒂惊愕地抬起头，连忙问道。

‘What should it be, but your trouble?’
“除了你的麻烦，应该是什么？”

‘I have no trouble.’
“我没有麻烦。”

‘Nonsense, Kitty. Do you suppose I could help knowing? I know all about it. And believe me, it’s of so little consequence.... We’ve all been through it.’
‘废话，基蒂。你认为我能帮忙知道吗？我知道这一切。相信我，这没什么影响……我们都经历过。

Kitty did not speak, and her face had a stern expression.
凯蒂没有说话，脸上的表情十分严峻。

‘He’s not worth your grieving over him,’ pursued Darya Alexandrovna, coming straight to the point.
“他不值得你为他悲伤，”达里娅·亚历山德罗芙娜开门见山地继续说道。

‘No, because he has treated me with contempt,’ said Kitty, in a breaking voice. ‘Don’t talk of it! Please, don’t talk of it!’
“不，因为他蔑视我。”基蒂声音断断续续地说。 ‘别说这个了！拜托，别再说了！”

‘But who can have told you so? No one has said that. I’m certain he was in love with you, and would still be in love with you, if it hadn’t...
“但是谁能告诉你呢？没有人这么说过。我确信他曾经爱过你，并且仍然会爱你，如果不是的话……

‘Oh, the most awful thing of all for me is this sympathizing!’ shrieked Kitty, suddenly flying into a passion. She turned round on her chair, flushed crimson, and rapidly moving her fingers, pinched the clasp of her belt first with one hand and then with the other. Dolly knew this trick her sister had of clenching her hands when she was much excited; she knew, too, that in moments of excitement Kitty was capable of forgetting herself and saying a great deal too much, and Dolly would have soothed her, but it was too late.
“哦，对我来说最可怕的事情就是这种同情！”基蒂尖叫道，突然变得热情起来。她在椅子上转过身来，脸色涨得通红，手指飞快地活动着，先用一只手捏住皮带扣，然后用另一只手捏住。多莉知道她姐姐兴奋时会握紧双手的这个伎俩。她也知道，在兴奋的时刻，基蒂会忘记自己，说太多话，多莉本可以安抚她，但为时已晚。

‘What, what is it you want to make me feel, eh?’ said Kitty quickly. ‘That I’ve been in love with a man who didn’t care a straw for me, and that I’m dying of love for him? And this is said to me by my own sister, who imagines that...that...that she’s sympathizing with me!...I don’t want these condolences and humbug!’
“什么，你想让我感觉到什么，嗯？”基蒂很快说道。 ‘我爱上了一个对我毫不关心的男人，而我却爱得要死？这是我自己的姐姐对我说的，她想象……她同情我！……我不需要这些慰问和欺骗！

‘Kitty, you’re unjust.’
“凯蒂，你不公正。”

‘Why are you tormenting me?’
“你为什么要折磨我？”

‘But I...quite the contrary...I see you’re unhappy...’
“但我……恰恰相反……我看到你不高兴……”

But Kitty in her fury did not hear her.
但愤怒的基蒂没有听到她的声音。

‘I’ve nothing to grieve over and be comforted about. I am too proud ever to allow myself to care for a man who does not love me.’
“我没有什么可悲伤和安慰的。我太骄傲了，不允许自己去关心一个不爱我的男人。

‘Yes, I don’t say so either.... Only one thing. Tell me the truth,’ said Darya Alexandrovna, taking her by the hand: ‘tell me, did Levin speak to you?...’
‘是的，我也不这么说……只有一件事。告诉我真相吧，”达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜拉着她的手说道：“告诉我，列文跟你说过话吗？……”

The mention of Levin’s name seemed to deprive Kitty of the last vestige of self-control. She leaped up from her chair, and flinging her clasp on the ground, she gesticulated rapidly with her hands and said:
一提到莱文的名字，基蒂似乎就失去了最后一丝自制力。她从椅子上跳起来，把扣子往地上一扔，双手飞快地比划着说道：

‘Why bring Levin in too? I can’t understand what you want to torment me for. I’ve told you, and I say it again, that I have some pride, and never, never would I do as you’re doing—go back to a man who’s deceived you, who has cared for another woman. I can’t understand it! You may, but I can’t!’
“为什么要把莱文也带进来？我不明白你为什么要折磨我。我已经告诉过你了，我再说一遍，我有一些骄傲，我永远不会像你那样做——回到一个欺骗你、关心另一个女人的男人身边。我无法理解！你可以，但我不能！

And saying these words she glanced at her sister, and seeing that Dolly sat silent, her head mournfully bowed, Kitty, instead of running out of the room as she had meant to do, sat down near the door, and hid her face in her handkerchief.
说着这句话，她看了一眼姐姐，看到多莉一言不发地坐着，悲哀地低着头，基蒂并没有像她本来想的那样跑出房间，而是在门边坐下，把脸埋在她的身上。手帕。

The silence lasted for two minutes: Dolly was thinking of herself. That humiliation of which she was always conscious came back to her with a peculiar bitterness when her sister reminded her of it. She had not looked for such cruelty in her sister, and she was angry with her. But suddenly she heard the rustle of a skirt, and with it the sound of heart-rending, smothered sobbing, and felt arms about her neck. Kitty was on her knees before her.
沉默持续了两分钟：多莉正在想着自己。当她姐姐提醒她时，她总是感到的那种羞辱带着一种特殊的痛苦又回到了她的脑海中。她并没有在姐姐身上看到如此残忍的行为，她对她很生气。但突然她听到裙子的沙沙声，随之而来的是令人心碎、窒息的抽泣声，感觉到有人搂住了她的脖子。基蒂跪在她面前。

‘Dolinka, I am so, so wretched!’ she whispered penitently. And the sweet face covered with tears hid itself in Darya Alexandrovna’s skirt.
“多林卡，我真是太可怜了！”她悔恨地低声说道。那张满是泪水的甜美脸庞藏在达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜的裙子里。

As though tears were the indispensable oil, without which the machinery of mutual confidence could not run smoothly between the two sisters, the sisters after their tears talked, not of what was uppermost in their minds, but, though they talked of outside matters, they understood each other. Kitty knew that the words she had uttered in anger about her husband’s infidelity and her humiliating position had cut her poor sister to the heart, but that she had forgiven her. Dolly for her part knew all she had wanted to find out. She felt certain that her surmises were correct; that Kitty’s misery, her inconsolable misery, was due precisely to the fact that Levin had made her an offer and she had refused him, and Vronsky had deceived her, and that she was fully prepared to love Levin and to detest Vronsky. Kitty said not a word of that; she talked of nothing but her spiritual condition.
仿佛眼泪是必不可少的油，没有它，两姐妹之间的相互信任机制就无法顺利运转，姐妹俩流泪后所谈论的，不是她们心里最重要的事情，而是，虽然她们谈论的是外面的事情，互相理解。基蒂知道，她因丈夫的不忠和自己的屈辱地位而愤怒地说出的话刺痛了她可怜的妹妹的心，但她已经原谅了她。就多莉而言，她知道她想知道的一切。她确信自己的猜测是正确的。基蒂的痛苦，她无法安慰的痛苦，正是由于列文向她提出了要约而她拒绝了他，而渥伦斯基欺骗了她，而她已经做好了充分的准备去爱列文并厌恶渥伦斯基。基蒂对此一言不发。她只谈论了她的精神状况。

‘I have nothing to make me miserable,’ she said, getting calmer; ‘but can you understand that everything has become hateful, loathsome, coarse to me, and I myself most of all? You can’t imagine what loathsome thoughts I have about everything.’
“我没有什么可以让我痛苦的，”她说，心情变得平静下来。 ‘但是你能理解，一切对我来说，尤其是对我自己来说，都变得可恨、可憎、粗俗吗？你无法想象我对一切都有多么令人厌恶的想法。

‘Why, whatever loathsome thoughts can you have?’ asked Dolly, smiling.
“为什么，你能有什么令人厌恶的想法？”多莉微笑着问道。

‘The most utterly loathsome and coarse: I can’t tell you. It’s not unhappiness, or low spirits, but much worse. As though everything that was good in me was all hidden away, and nothing was left but the most loathsome. Come, how am I to tell you?’ she went on, seeing the puzzled look in her sister’s eyes. ‘Father began saying something to me just now.... It seems to me he thinks all I want is to be married. Mother takes me to a ball: it seems to me she only takes me to get me married off as soon as may be, and be rid of me. I know it’s not the truth, but I can’t drive away such thoughts. Eligible suitors, as they call them—I can’t bear to see them. It seems to me they’re taking stock of me and summing me up. In old days to go anywhere in a ball dress was a simple joy to me, I admired myself; now I feel ashamed and awkward. And then! The doctor.... Then...’ Kitty hesitated; she wanted to say further that ever since this change had taken place in her, Stepan Arkadyevitch had become insufferably repulsive to her, and that she could not see him without the grossest and most hideous conceptions rising before her imagination.
“最令人厌恶和粗俗的：我不能告诉你。这不是不快乐，也不是情绪低落，而是更糟。仿佛我身上一切美好的东西都被隐藏起来，除了最令人厌恶的东西之外，什么也没有留下。来吧，我该怎么告诉你呢？”她继续说道，看到姐姐眼中困惑的表情。 “父亲刚才开始对我说话……在我看来，他认为我只想结婚。母亲带我去参加一个舞会：在我看来，她带我只是为了尽快让我结婚，然后摆脱我。我知道这不是事实，但我无法赶走这样的想法。合格的追求者，正如他们所说的那样——我不忍心见到他们。在我看来，他们正在评估我并总结我。以前，穿着舞会礼服去任何地方对我来说都是一种简单的快乐，我很佩服自己；现在我感到羞愧和尴尬。进而！医生……然后……”基蒂犹豫了一下；她还想进一步说，自从她身上发生了这种变化，斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇就变得令她难以忍受地厌恶，她一见到他，就会在她的想象中浮现出最粗俗、最可怕的想法。

‘Oh, well, everything presents itself to me, in the coarsest, most loathsome light,’ she went on. ‘That’s my illness. Perhaps it will pass off.’
“哦，好吧，一切都以最粗俗、最令人厌恶的方式呈现在我面前，”她继续说道。 ‘这就是我的病。也许它会过去。

‘But you mustn’t think about it.’
“但你千万别想这个。”

‘I can’t help it. I’m never happy except with the children at your house.’
“我忍不住。”除了和你家的孩子们在一起之外，我从来都不快乐。”

‘What a pity you can’t be with me!’
“可惜你不能和我在一起！”

‘Oh, yes, I’m coming. I’ve had scarlatina, and I’ll persuade mamma to let me.’
‘哦，是的，我来了。我得过猩红热，我会说服妈妈让我这么做。

Kitty insisted on having her way, and went to stay at her sister’s and nursed the children all through the scarlatina, for scarlatina it turned out to be. The two sisters brought all the six children successfully through it, but Kitty was no better in health, and in Lent the Shtcherbatskys went abroad.
凯蒂坚持要按自己的方式行事，她去姐姐家住下，在猩红热期间照顾孩子们，因为事实证明是猩红热。两姐妹带着六个孩子顺利度过了难关，但基蒂的健康状况并没有好转，四旬斋期间，谢尔巴茨基一家出国了。

Chapter 4
第4章

The highest Petersburg society is essentially one: in it everyone knows everyone else, everyone even visits everyone else. But this great set has its subdivisions. Anna Arkadyevna Karenina had friends and close ties in three different circles of this highest society. One circle was her husband’s government official set, consisting of his colleagues and subordinates, brought together in the most various and capricious manner, and belonging to different social strata. Anna found it difficult now to recall the feeling of almost awe-stricken reverence which she had at first entertained for these persons. Now she knew all of them as people know one another in a country town; she knew their habits and weaknesses, and where the shoe pinched each one of them. She knew their relations with one another and with the head authorities, knew who was for whom, and how each one maintained his position, and where they agreed and disagreed. But the circle of political, masculine interests had never interested her, in spite of countess Lidia Ivanovna’s influence, and she avoided it.
圣彼得堡的最高社会本质上是一个：其中每个人都认识其他人，每个人甚至拜访其他人。但这个伟大的集合还有它的细分。安娜·阿尔卡季耶夫娜·卡列尼娜在这个最高社会的三个不同圈子里都有朋友和密切的联系。其中一个圈子是她丈夫的官僚圈子，由他的同事和下属组成，形式极其多样、反复无常，属于不同的社会阶层。安娜现在很难回忆起她最初对这些人抱有的近乎敬畏的感觉。现在她对他们所有人都了如指掌，就像乡村小镇里的人们互相认识一样。她了解他们的习惯和弱点，也知道鞋子对他们每个人造成的伤害。她了解他们之间的关系以及他们与最高当局的关系，知道谁是为谁服务的，以及每个人如何维持自己的立场，以及他们同意和不同意的地方。但尽管莉迪亚·伊万诺夫娜伯爵夫人有影响力，但她对政治、男性利益圈子从来不感兴趣，而且她回避它。

Another little set with which Anna was in close relations was the one by means of which Alexey Alexandrovitch had made his career. The center of this circle was the Countess Lidia Ivanovna. It was a set made up of elderly, ugly, benevolent, and godly women, and clever, learned, and ambitious men. One of the clever people belonging to the set had called it ‘the conscience of Petersburg society.’ Alexey Alexandrovitch had the highest esteem for this circle, and Anna with her special gift for getting on with everyone, had in the early days of her life in Petersburg made friends in this circle also. Now, since her return from Moscow, she had come to feel this set insufferable. It seemed to her that both she and all of them were insincere, and she felt so bored and ill at ease in that world that she went to see the Countess Lidia Ivanovna as little as possible.
与安娜关系密切的另一套小套装是阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇赖以取得事业的一套。这个圆圈的中心是莉迪亚·伊万诺芙娜伯爵夫人。这是一个由年老、丑陋、仁慈、虔诚的女性和聪明、博学、雄心勃勃的男性组成的群体。这个圈子里的一位聪明人称其为“彼得堡社会的良心”。阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇对这个圈子怀有最高的敬意，而安娜则有着与每个人相处融洽的特殊天赋，在她生命的早期，在彼得堡也结识了这个圈子的朋友。现在，自从她从莫斯科回来后，她开始觉得这一套令人难以忍受。在她看来，她和他们所有人都是不真诚的，她在那个世界里感到无聊和不安，所以她尽量少去见莉迪亚·伊万诺夫娜伯爵夫人。

The third circle with which Anna had ties was preeminently the fashionable world—the world of balls, of dinners, of sumptuous dresses, the world that hung on to the court with one hand, so as to avoid sinking to the level of the demi-monde. For the demi-monde the members of that fashionable world believed that they despised, though their tastes were not merely similar, but in fact identical. Her connection with this circle was kept up through Princess Betsy Tverskaya, her cousin’s wife, who had an income of a hundred and twenty thousand roubles, and who had taken a great fancy to Anna ever since she first came out, showed her much attention, and drew her into her set, making fun of Countess Lidia Ivanovna’s coterie.
与安娜有联系的第三个圈子主要是时尚世界——舞会、晚宴、华丽礼服的世界，是一个用一只手紧紧抓住球场的世界，以避免沉沦到半官方的水平。世界。对于半世界人士来说，时尚界的成员认为他们鄙视他们，尽管他们的品味不仅相似，而且实际上是相同的。她与这个圈子的联系是通过她表弟的妻子贝特西·特维尔斯卡娅公主保持的，她的收入有十二万卢布，从安娜刚出道时就很喜欢她，对她表现出了极大的关注，并把她拉进自己的圈子，取笑莉迪亚·伊万诺芙娜伯爵夫人的小圈子。

‘When I’m old and ugly I’ll be the same,’ Betsy used to say; ‘but for a pretty young woman like you it’s early days for that house of charity.’
贝特西常说：“当我又老又丑的时候，我还是老样子。” “但对于像你这样年轻漂亮的女人来说，慈善之家还处于早期发展阶段。”

Anna had at first avoided as far as she could Princess Tverskaya’s world, because it necessitated an expenditure beyond her means, and besides in her heart she preferred the first circle. But since her visit to Moscow she had done quite the contrary. She avoided her serious-minded friends, and went out into the fashionable world. There she met Vronsky, and experienced an agitating joy at those meetings. She met Vronsky specially often at Betsy’s for Betsy was a Vronsky by birth and his cousin. Vronsky was everywhere where he had any chance of meeting Anna, and speaking to her, when he could, of his love. She gave him no encouragement, but every time she met him there surged up in her heart that same feeling of quickened life that had come upon her that day in the railway carriage when she saw him for the first time. She was conscious herself that her delight sparkled in her eyes and curved her lips into a smile, and she could not quench the expression of this delight.
安娜起初尽可能地避开特维尔斯卡娅公主的世界，因为这需要超出她的承受能力的支出，而且她内心更喜欢第一个圆圈。但自从访问莫斯科以来，她的做法却恰恰相反。她避开了那些严肃的朋友，进入了时尚界。在那里，她遇到了渥伦斯基，并在这些会面中体验到了激动人心的快乐。她特别经常在贝琪家见到渥伦斯基，因为贝琪是渥伦斯基出生的人，也是他的表弟。渥伦斯基到处都是他有机会见到安娜的地方，并在可能的时候向她倾诉他的爱。她没有给他任何鼓励，但每次见到他，她的心里都会涌起一种生命加速的感觉，就像那天在火车车厢里第一次见到他时一样。她自己也意识到，她的眼睛里闪烁着喜悦的光芒，她的嘴唇弯起微笑，她无法抑制这种喜悦的表情。

At first Anna sincerely believed that she was displeased with him for daring to pursue her. Soon after her return from Moscow, on arriving at a soiree where she had expected to meet him, and not finding him there, she realized distinctly from the rush of disappointment that she had been deceiving herself, and that this pursuit was not merely not distasteful to her, but that it made the whole interest of her life.
起初安娜真诚地认为她对他敢于追求她感到不满。从莫斯科回来后不久，当她到达一个她本来希望见到他的晚会时，却没有找到他，她从一阵失望的情绪中清楚地意识到自己一直在欺骗自己，而这种追求不仅不令人厌恶。对她来说，但这成为了她一生的全部兴趣。

A celebrated singer was singing for the second time, and all the fashionable world was in the theater. Vronsky, seeing his cousin from his stall in the front row, did not wait till the entr’acte, but went to her box.
一位著名歌手第二次演唱，所有时尚界都聚集在剧院里。渥伦斯基在前排的摊位上看到了他的表弟，他没有等到中场，而是走向了她的包厢。

‘Why didn’t you come to dinner?’ she said to him. ‘I marvel at the second sight of lovers,’ she added with a smile, so that no one but he could hear; ‘she wasn’t there. But come after the opera.’
“你为什么不来吃晚饭？”她对他说。 “我对恋人的第二次见面感到惊讶。”她微笑着补充道，这样除了他之外没有人能听到。 ‘她不在那儿。但请看完歌剧。”

Vronsky looked inquiringly at her. She nodded. He thanked her by a smile, and sat down beside her.
渥伦斯基询问地看着她。她点点头。他微笑着向她道谢，然后在她身边坐下。

‘But how I remember your jeers!’ continued Princess Betsy, who took a peculiar pleasure in following up this passion to a successful issue. ‘What’s become of all that? You’re caught, my dear boy.’
“但是我多么记得你们的嘲笑啊！”贝特西公主继续说道，她非常高兴能将这种热情继续下去，最终获得成功。 ‘这一切变成了什么？你被抓住了，我亲爱的孩子。

‘That’s my one desire, to be caught,’ answered Vronsky, with his serene, good-humored smile. ‘If I complain of anything it’s only that I’m not caught enough, to tell the truth. I begin to lose hope.’
“我唯一的愿望就是被抓住，”渥伦斯基回答道，脸上带着平静、幽默的微笑。 “如果我抱怨什么，说实话，那只是我被抓得不够多。我开始失去希望。

‘Why, whatever hope can you have?’ said Betsy, offended on behalf of her friend. ‘Enendons nous....’ But in her eyes there were gleams of light that betrayed that she understood perfectly and precisely as he did what hope he might have.
“哎呀，你还能有什么希望呢？”贝特西说，她的朋友感到被冒犯了。 “Enendons nous……”但她的眼中闪烁着光芒，这表明她完全明白他所做的一切，他可能有什么希望。

‘None whatever,’ said Vronsky, laughing and showing his even rows of teeth. ‘Excuse me,’ he added, taking an opera glass out of her hand, and proceeding to scrutinize, over her bare shoulder, the row of boxes facing them. ‘I’m afraid I’m becoming ridiculous.’
“没什么，”渥伦斯基笑着说，露出一排整齐的牙齿。 “对不起，”他补充道，从她手中接过望远镜，越过她裸露的肩膀仔细观察他们对面的一排盒子。 “我担心我变得很可笑。”

He was very well aware that he ran no risk of being ridiculous in the eyes of Betsy or any other fashionable people. He was very well aware that in their eyes the position of an unsuccessful lover of a girl, or of any woman free to marry, might be ridiculous. But the position of a man pursuing a married woman, and, regardless of everything, staking his life on drawing her into adultery, has something fine and grand about it, and can never be ridiculous; and so it was with a proud and gay smile under his mustaches that he lowered the opera glass and looked at his cousin.
他非常清楚，自己不会在贝特西或任何其他时尚人士眼中被嘲笑。他很清楚，在他们眼中，一个女孩或任何可以自由结婚的女人的不成功情人的地位可能是荒谬的。但是，一个男人追求一个已婚女人，不惜一切代价，赌上性命去引诱她通奸，这是一件美好而伟大的事情，绝不是可笑的。于是，他的小胡子下露出了骄傲而愉快的微笑，放下了望远镜，看着他的表弟。

‘But why was it you didn’t come to dinner?’ she said, admiring him.
“但是你为什么不来吃晚饭呢？”她钦佩地说道。

‘I must tell you about that. I was busily employed, and doing what, do you suppose? I’ll give you a hundred guesses, a thousand...you’d never guess. I’ve been reconciling a husband with a man who’d insulted his wife. Yes, really!’
“我必须告诉你这一点。我正忙着工作，你猜我在做什么？我会给你一百个猜测，一千个……你永远猜不到。我一直在帮助一位丈夫与一位侮辱妻子的男人和解。对真的！'

‘Well, did you succeed?’
“那么，你成功了吗？”

‘Almost.’
'几乎。'

‘You really must tell me about it,’ she said, getting up. ‘Come to me in the next entr’acte.’
“你真的必须告诉我这件事，”她站起来说道。 “下一个入口到我这里来。”

‘I can’t; I’m going to the French theater.’
‘我不能；我要去法国剧院。

‘From Nilsson?’ Betsy queried in horror, though she could not herself have distinguished Nilsson’s voice from any chorus girl’s.
“尼尔森的声音？”贝特西惊恐地问道，尽管她自己无法区分尼尔森的声音和任何合唱团女孩的声音。

‘Can’t help it. I’ve an appointment there, all to do with my mission of peace.’
‘没办法。我在那里有个约会，都是为了我的和平使命。”

‘Blessed are the peacemakers; theirs is the kingdom of heaven,’’ said Betsy, vaguely recollecting she had heard some similar saying from someone. ‘Very well, then, sit down, and tell me what it’s all about.’
‘使人和睦的人有福了；他们的就是天国。”贝特西说，她依稀记得自己曾听过某人说过类似的话。 “好吧，那么，坐下来，告诉我到底是怎么回事。”

And she sat down again.
她又坐下了。

Chapter 5
第5章

‘This is rather indiscreet, but it’s so good it’s an awful temptation to tell the story,’ said Vronsky, looking at her with his laughing eyes. ‘I’m not going to mention any names.’
“这有点不检点，但它太好了，对讲这个故事来说是一种可怕的诱惑，”渥伦斯基说，用他笑的眼睛看着她。 “我不会提及任何名字。”

‘But I shall guess, so much the better.’
“但我猜，这样就更好了。”

‘Well, listen: two festive young men were driving—‘
“好吧，听着：两个喜庆的年轻人正在开车——”

‘Officers of your regiment, of course?’
“当然是你们团的军官们？”

‘I didn’t say they were officers,—two young men who had been lunching.’
“我没说他们是军官——两个正在吃午饭的年轻人。”

‘In other words, drinking.’
“换句话来说，就是喝酒。”

‘Possibly. They were driving on their way to dinner with a friend in the most festive state of mind. And they beheld a pretty woman in a hired sledge; she overtakes them, looks round at them, and, so they fancy anyway, nods to them and laughs. They, of course, follow her. They gallop at full speed. To their amazement, the fair one alights at the entrance of the very house to which they were going. The fair one darts upstairs to the top story. They get a glimpse of red lips under a short veil, and exquisite little feet.’
‘可能吧。他们带着最喜庆的心情开车去和朋友共进晚餐。他们看到一个漂亮的女人坐在一辆租来的雪橇上。她追上他们，回头看了看他们，然后，他们也这么想了，她向他们点点头，大笑起来。他们当然会跟着她。他们全速驰骋。让他们惊讶的是，美丽的人在他们要去的那所房子的入口处下了车。美丽的人冲上楼，来到顶层。他们瞥见短面纱下的红唇和精致的小脚。

‘You describe it with such feeling that I fancy you must be one of the two.’
“你描述得这么有感觉，我想你一定是这两个人之一。”

‘And after what you said, just now! Well, the young men go in to their comrade’s; he was giving a farewell dinner. There they certainly did drink a little too much, as one always does at farewell dinners. And at dinner they inquire who lives at the top in that house. No one knows; only their host’s valet, in answer to their inquiry whether any ‘young ladies’ are living on the top floor, answered that there were a great many of them about there. After dinner the two young men go into their host’s study, and write a letter to the unknown fair one. They compose an ardent epistle, a declaration in fact, and they carry the letter upstairs themselves, so as to elucidate whatever might appear not perfectly intelligible in the letter.’
‘在你说完之后，就现在！好吧，年轻人走进了他们的同志那里。他正在举办告别晚宴。在那里，他们确实喝得有点多了，就像告别晚宴上人们总是做的那样。晚餐时，他们询问谁住在那栋房子的顶层。没人知道;只有主人的男仆在回答他们是否有“年轻女士”住在顶楼时回答说那里有很多人。晚饭后，两个年轻人走进主人的书房，给那位不知名的美丽人写了一封信。他们写了一封热情洋溢的书信，实际上是一份宣言，并亲自把信搬上楼，以便阐明信中可能看起来不太明白的内容。

‘Why are you telling me these horrible stories? Well?’
‘你为什么要告诉我这些可怕的故事？出色地？'

‘They ring. A maidservant opens the door, they hand her the letter, and assure the maid that they’re both so in love that they’ll die on the spot at the door. The maid, stupefied, carries in their messages. All at once a gentleman appears with whiskers like sausages, as red as a lobster, announces that there is no one living in the flat except his wife, and sends them both about their business.’
‘他们响了。一个女仆打开了门，他们把信交给了她，并向女仆保证他们是如此相爱，以至于他们会死在门口。女仆惊愕地传达了他们的信息。突然，一位绅士出现了，他的胡须像香肠，红得像龙虾，宣布除了他的妻子，公寓里没有人住，并让他们俩谈论他们的事情。

‘How do you know he had whiskers like sausages, as you say?’
“你怎么知道他的胡须就像你说的香肠一样？”

‘Ah, you shall hear. I’ve just been to make peace between them.’
‘啊，你会听到的。我只是去调解他们之间的关系。”

‘Well, and what then?’
“那么，然后呢？”

‘That’s the most interesting part of the story. It appears that it’s a happy couple, a government clerk and his lady. The government clerk lodges a complaint, and I became a mediator, and such a mediator!... I assure you Talleyrand couldn’t hold a candle to me.’
‘这是故事中最有趣的部分。看来这是一对幸福的夫妇，一位政府职员和他的夫人。政府职员提出投诉，我成了调解人，而且是这样的调解人！……我向你保证，塔列朗无法与我相提并论。

‘Why, where was the difficulty?’
“为什么，困难在哪里？”

‘Ah, you shall hear.... We apologize in due form: we are in despair, we entreat forgiveness for the unfortunate misunderstanding. The government clerk with the sausages begins to melt, but he, too, desires to express his sentiments, and as soon as ever he begins to express them, he begins to get hot and say nasty things, and again I’m obliged to trot out all my diplomatic talents. I allowed that their conduct was bad, but I urged him to take into consideration their heedlessness, their youth; then, too, the young men had only just been lunching together. ‘You understand. They regret it deeply, and beg you to overlook their misbehavior.’ The government clerk was softened once more. ‘I consent, count, and am ready to overlook it; but you perceive that my wife—my wife’s a respectable woman —has been exposed to the persecution, and insults, and effrontery of young upstarts, scoundrels....’ And you must understand, the young upstarts are present all the while, and I have to keep the peace between them. Again I call out all my diplomacy, and again as soon as the thing was about at an end, our friend the government clerk gets hot and red, and his sausages stand on end with wrath, and once more I launch out into diplomatic wiles.’
“啊，你会听到……我们以适当的形式道歉：我们感到绝望，我们为不幸的误解请求宽恕。拿着香肠的政府职员开始融化，但他也想表达自己的感情，一旦他开始表达，他就开始变得热情，说一些难听的话，我不得不再次小跑发挥我所有的外交才能。我承认他们的行为不好，但我敦促他考虑到他们的粗心和年轻；那时，年轻人也刚刚一起吃过午饭。 '你明白。他们深感后悔，恳求您原谅他们的不当行为。”政府职员再次软化了。 “我同意，计算，并准备忽略它；但你知道我的妻子——我的妻子是一位受人尊敬的女人——一直受到年轻暴发户、恶棍的迫害、侮辱和厚颜无耻……’而且你必须明白，年轻暴发户一直在场，而且我必须维持他们之间的和平。我再次拿出我所有的外交手段，事情一结束，我们的政府职员朋友就变得又热又红，他的香肠愤怒地立起来，我再一次开始外交诡计。 '

‘Ah, he must tell you this story!’ said Betsy, laughing, to a lady who came into her box. ‘He has been making me laugh so.’
“啊，他一定会告诉你这个故事！”贝特西笑着对一位走进包厢的女士说道。 “他一直让我发笑。”

‘Well, bonne chance!’ she added, giving Vronsky one finger of the hand in which she held her fan, and with a shrug of her shoulders she twitched down the bodice of her gown that had worked up, so as to be duly naked as she moved forward towards the footlights into the light of the gas, and the sight of all eyes.
“好吧，好机会！”她补充道，把她拿着扇子的手的一根手指给了渥伦斯基，然后耸了耸肩，把已经卷起来的礼服衣身拉了下来，这样就彻底赤身裸体了。当她向前迈步，走向脚灯的气灯，以及众人目光的视线时。

Vronsky drove to the French theater, where he really had to see the colonel of his regiment, who never missed a single performance there. He wanted to see him, to report on the result of his mediation, which had occupied and amused him for the last three days. Petritsky, whom he liked, was implicated in the affair, and the other culprit was a capital fellow and first-rate comrade, who had lately joined the regiment, the young Prince Kedrov. And what was most important, the interests of the regiment were involved in it too.
渥伦斯基驱车前往法国剧院，他真的要去见他所在团的上校，他从来没有错过过那里的任何一场演出。他想见见他，报告他的调解结果，这三天来他一直在忙着调解，也很开心。他喜欢的佩特里茨基也卷入了这件事，而另一个罪魁祸首是刚入伍的大佬、一流同志，年轻的克德罗夫亲王。最重要的是，这也涉及到了军团的利益。

Both the young men were in Vronsky’s company. The colonel of the regiment was waited upon by the government clerk, Venden, with a complaint against his officers, who had insulted his wife. His young wife, so Venden told the story—he had been married half a year—was at church with her mother, and suddenly overcome by indisposition, arising from her interesting condition, she could not remain standing, she drove home in the first sledge, a smart-looking one, she came across. On the spot the officers set off in pursuit of her; she was alarmed, and feeling still more unwell, ran up the staircase home. Venden himself, on returning from his office, heard a ring at their bell and voices, went out, and seeing the intoxicated officers with a letter, he had turned them out. He asked for exemplary punishment.
这两个年轻人都在渥伦斯基的陪伴下。政府职员文登接待了该团的上校，投诉他的军官侮辱了他的妻子。文登讲述了他年轻的妻子的故事——他结婚半年了——当时她和母亲一起去教堂，突然身体不适，由于她的情况很有趣，她无法保持站立，她开着第一辆雪橇回家，一个看上去很聪明的人，她遇到了。警察当场就出发去追捕她。她很震惊，感觉更不舒服，跑上楼梯回家。文登本人从办公室回来后，听到铃声和说话声，就出去了，看到醉酒的军官拿着一封信，他把他们赶了出去。他要求给予惩戒性惩罚。

‘Yes, it’s all very well,’ said the colonel to Vronsky, whom he had invited to come and see him. ‘Petritsky’s becoming impossible. Not a week goes by without some scandal. This government clerk won’t let it drop, he’ll go on with the thing.’
“是的，一切都很好，”上校对渥伦斯基说，他邀请渥伦斯基来看他。 “佩特里茨基变得不可能了。每周都会发生一些丑闻。这位政府职员不会就此罢休，他会继续做下去。”

Vronsky saw all the thanklessness of the business, and that there could be no question of a duel in it, that everything must be done to soften the government clerk, and hush the matter up. The colonel had called in Vronsky just because he knew him to be an honorable and intelligent man, and, more than all, a man who cared for the honor of the regiment. They talked it over, and decided that Petritsky and Kedrov must go with Vronsky to Venden’s to apologize. The colonel and Vronsky were both fully aware that Vronsky’s name and rank would be sure to contribute greatly to the softening of the injured husband’s feelings.
渥伦斯基看到了这件事的吃力不讨好，而且这里面不可能有决斗的问题，必须尽一切努力软化政府职员，让这件事闭嘴。上校之所以召来渥伦斯基，只是因为他知道他是一个正直而聪明的人，而且最重要的是，他是一个关心团荣誉的人。他们商量了一下，决定佩特里茨基和克德罗夫必须和渥伦斯基一起去文登店道歉。上校和渥伦斯基都清楚，渥伦斯基的名字和军衔肯定会对缓和受伤丈夫的感情有很大帮助。

And these two influences were not in fact without effect; though the result remained, as Vronsky had described, uncertain.
事实上，这两种影响并非没有影响。尽管正如渥伦斯基所描述的那样，结果仍然不确定。

On reaching the French theater, Vronsky retired to the foyer with the colonel, and reported to him his success, or non-success. The colonel, thinking it all over, made up his mind not to pursue the matter further, but then for his own satisfaction proceeded to cross-examine Vronsky about his interview; and it was a long while before he could restrain his laughter, as Vronsky described how the government clerk, after subsiding for a while, would suddenly flare up again, as he recalled the details, and how Vronsky, at the last half word of conciliation, skillfully maneuvered a retreat, shoving Petritsky out before him.
到达法国剧院后，渥伦斯基与上校一起退到门厅，并向他报告他的成功或不成功。上校想了想，决定不再追究此事，但为了自己的满意，他​​开始盘问渥伦斯基关于他的采访；好长一段时间，他才抑制住笑声，听渥伦斯基描述，政府职员在平静了一段时间后，在回忆起细节时，会突然再次爆发，以及渥伦斯基在调解的最后半个字时如何，巧妙地撤退，将佩特里茨基推到了他面前。

‘It’s a disgraceful story, but killing. Kedrov really can’t fight the gentleman! Was he so awfully hot?’ he commented, laughing. ‘But what do you say to Claire today? She’s marvelous,’ he went on, speaking of a new French actress. ‘However often you see her, every day she’s different. It’s only the French who can do that.’
“这是一个可耻的故事，但却是杀戮。克德罗夫实在斗不过君子！他有这么热吗？”他笑着评论道。 “但是你今天对克莱尔说什么？她太棒了，”他继续说道，谈到一位新的法国女演员。 “无论你多久见到她，她每天都不一样。只有法国人才能做到这一点。

Chapter 6
第6章

Princess Betsy drove home from the theater, without waiting for the end of the last act. She had only just time to go into her dressing room, sprinkle her long, pale face with powder, rub it, set her dress to rights, and order tea in the big drawing room, when one after another carriages drove up to her huge house in Bolshaia Morskaia. Her guests stepped out at the wide entrance, and the stout porter, who used to read the newspapers in the mornings behind the glass door, to the edification of the passers-by, noiselessly opened the immense door, letting the visitors pass by him into the house.
贝特西公主没有等到最后一幕结束就开车从剧院回家。她刚进化妆间，在苍白的长脸上撒上粉，擦了擦，整理好衣服，到大客厅里点了茶，一辆又一辆的马车就开到了她的大房子里。在波尔沙亚莫斯卡亚。她的客人们从宽阔的入口处走出，那个习惯于早上在玻璃门后读报纸的粗壮门房，为了熏陶过往的行人，悄无声息地打开了那扇巨大的门，让客人从他身边走过，走进去。房子。

Almost at the same instant the hostess, with freshly arranged coiffure and freshened face, walked in at one door and her guests at the other door of the drawing room, a large room with dark walls, downy rugs, and a brightly lighted table, gleaming with the light of candles, white cloth, silver samovar, and transparent china tea things.
几乎同时，女主人头发刚刚整理好，脸色焕然一新，从客厅的一扇门走进来，她的客人从客厅的另一扇门走进来。 一间大房间，墙壁漆黑，地毯柔软，一张灯光明亮的桌子闪闪发光。烛光、白布、银茶炊和透明瓷茶具。

The hostess sat down at the table and took off her gloves. Chairs were set with the aid of footmen, moving almost imperceptibly about the room; the party settled itself, divided into two groups: one round the samovar near the hostess, the other at the opposite end of the drawing room, round the handsome wife of an ambassador, in black velvet, with sharply defined black eyebrows. In both groups conversation wavered, as it always does, for the first few minutes, broken up by meetings, greetings, offers of tea, and as it were, feeling about for something to rest upon.
女主人在桌边坐下，脱下了手套。椅子在男仆的帮助下摆好，在房间里几乎难以察觉地移动。一行人坐了下来，分成两组：一组围着女主人附近的茶炊，另一组则围在客厅另一端，围着一位英俊的大使夫人，她穿着黑色天鹅绒衣服，有着轮廓分明的黑眉毛。在最初的几分钟里，两组人的谈话都像往常一样摇摆不定，被会议、问候、请茶打断，也可以说是在寻找可以休息的东西。

‘She’s exceptionally good as an actress; one can see she’s studied Kaulbach,’ said a diplomatic attache in the group round the ambassador’s wife. ‘Did you notice how she fell down?...’
“作为一名演员，她非常出色； “看得出来她研究过考尔巴赫。”大使夫人身边的一位外交武官说道。 “你注意到她是怎么摔倒的吗？……”

‘Oh, please, don’t let us talk about Nilsson! No one can possibly say anything new about her,’ said a fat, red-faced, flaxen-headed lady, without eyebrows and chignon, wearing an old silk dress. This was Princess Myakaya, noted for her simplicity and the roughness of her manners, and nicknamed enfant terrible. Princess Myakaya, sitting in the middle between the two groups, and listening to both, took part in the conversation first of one and then of the other. ‘Three people have used that very phrase about Kaulbach to me today already, just as though they had made a compact about it. And I can’t see why they liked that remark so.’
“噢，拜托，别让我们谈论尼尔森！”没有人能对她说任何新鲜事，”一位红脸、亚麻色头发、没有眉毛、没有发髻、穿着一件旧丝质连衣裙的胖女士说道。这就是米卡娅公主，以她的朴素和粗暴的举止而闻名，被称为“坏孩子”。米卡娅公主坐在两群人中间，听着两人的谈话，先加入了其中一方的谈话，然后又加入了另一方的谈话。 “今天已经有三个人对我说过关于考尔巴赫的这句话了，就好像他们已经就此签订了契约一样。我不明白他们为什么这么喜欢这句话。

The conversation was cut short by this observation, and a new subject had to be thought of again.
谈话因这一观察而中断，必须重新考虑一个新的话题。

‘Do tell me something amusing but not spiteful,’ said the ambassador’s wife, a great proficient in the art of that elegant conversation called by the English, small talk. She addressed the attache, who was at a loss now what to begin upon.
“请告诉我一些有趣的事情，但不要恶意，”大使的妻子说道，她非常精通英语中所谓的闲聊的优雅谈话艺术。她对随员说道，随员现在不知道该从何说起。

‘They say that that’s a difficult task, that nothing’s amusing that isn’t spiteful,’ he began with a smile. ‘But I’ll try. Get me a subject. It all lies in the subject. If a subject’s given me, it’s easy to spin something round it. I often think that the celebrated talkers of the last century would have found it difficult to talk cleverly now. Everything clever is so stale...’
“他们说这是一项艰巨的任务，没有什么有趣的事情不是恶意的，”他微笑着开始说道。 '但我会尝试。给我一个主题。一切都在于主题。如果给了我一个主题，我很容易围绕它旋转一些东西。我常常想，上个世纪著名的演讲家现在很难巧妙地说话了。一切聪明的东西都那么陈旧……”

‘That has been said long ago,’ the ambassador’s wife interrupted him, laughing.
“这话早就说过了，”大使夫人笑着打断他。

The conversation began amiably, but just because it was too amiable, it came to a stop again. They had to have recourse to the sure, never-failing topic—gossip.
谈话一开始很和蔼可亲，却因为太过和蔼可亲，又戛然而止。他们必须求助于一个永远不会失败的话题——八卦。

‘Don’t you think there’s something Louis Quinze about Tushkevitch?’ he said, glancing towards a handsome, fair-haired young man, standing at the table.
“你不觉得图什克维奇有一点路易斯·昆泽的影子吗？”他说，瞥了一眼站在桌边的英俊的金发年轻人。

‘Oh, yes! He’s in the same style as the drawing room and that’s why it is he’s so often here.’
'哦是的！他和客厅的风格一样，这就是他经常来这里的原因。”

This conversation was maintained, since it rested on allusions to what could not be talked of in that room—that is to say, of the relations of Tushkevitch with their hostess.
这场谈话得以继续，因为它所暗示的是在那个房间里不能谈论的事情——也就是说，图什克维奇和女主人的关系。

Round the samovar and the hostess the conversation had been meanwhile vacillating in just the same way between three inevitable topics: the latest piece of public news, the theater, and scandal. It, too, came finally to rest on the last topic, that is, ill-natured gossip.
与此同时，茶炊和女主人周围的谈话同样在三个不可避免的话题​​之间摇摆不定：最新的公共新闻、戏剧和丑闻。也终于停留在最后一个话题上，那就是恶意的八卦。

‘Have you heard the Maltishtcheva woman—the mother, not the daughter—has ordered a costume in diable rose color?’
“你听说过 Maltishtcheva 女人——母亲，而不是女儿——订购了一套邪恶的玫瑰色服装吗？”

‘Nonsense! No, that’s too lovely!’
'废话！不，那太可爱了！

‘I wonder that with her sense—for she’s not a fool, you know— that she doesn’t see how funny she is.’
“我想知道，以她的感觉——因为她不是傻子，你知道——她没有意识到自己有多有趣。”

Everyone had something to say in censure or ridicule of the luckless Madame Maltishtcheva, and the conversation crackled merrily, like a burning faggot-stack.
每个人都有话要说，谴责或嘲笑不幸的马尔蒂什切娃夫人，谈话充满欢乐，就像燃烧的柴草堆一样。

The husband of Princess Betsy, a good-natured fat man, an ardent collector of engravings, hearing that his wife had visitors, came into the drawing room before going to his club. Stepping noiselessly over the thick rugs, he went up to Princess Myakaya.
贝特西公主的丈夫是一个心地善良的胖子，也是一位热心的版画收藏家，听说他的妻子有客人来访，就走进了客厅，然后才去他的俱乐部。他悄无声息地踩着厚厚的地毯，走到米卡娅公主面前。

‘How did you like Nilsson?’ he asked.
“你觉得尼尔森怎么样？”他问道。

‘Oh, how can you steal upon anyone like that! How you startled me!’ she responded. ‘Please don’t talk to me about the opera; you know nothing about music. I’d better meet you on your own ground, and talk about your majolica and engravings. Come now, what treasure have you been buying lately at the old curiosity shops?’
‘哦，你怎么能这样偷袭别人呢！你真让我吃惊！”她回答道。 “请不要跟我谈论歌剧；你对音乐一无所知。我最好在你自己的地盘上见见你，谈谈你的瓷器和雕刻。来吧，你最近在古玩店里买了什么宝贝？

‘Would you like me to show you? But you don’t understand such things.’
‘你想让我给你看吗？但你不明白这些事情。

‘Oh, do show me! I’ve been learning about them at those—what’s their names?...the bankers...they’ve some splendid engravings. They showed them to us.’
‘噢，给我看看吧！我一直在了解他们——他们叫什么名字？……银行家……他们有一些精美的雕刻。他们向我们展示了它们。

‘Why, have you been at the Schuetzburgs?’ asked the hostess from the samovar.
“怎么，你去过舒茨堡吗？”茶炊旁的女主人问道。

‘Yes, ma chere. They asked my husband and me to dinner, and told us the sauce at that dinner cost a hundred pounds,’ Princess Myakaya said, speaking loudly, and conscious everyone was listening; ‘and very nasty sauce it was, some green mess. We had to ask them, and I made them sauce for eighteen pence, and everybody was very much pleased with it. I can’t run to hundred-pound sauces.’
“是的，亲爱的。”他们邀请我和我丈夫共进晚餐，并告诉我们晚餐的酱汁要花费一百英镑。”米卡娅公主大声说道，意识到每个人都在听； “那是非常恶心的酱汁，一些绿色的混乱。我们不得不问他们，我给他们做了十八便士的酱汁，每个人都非常满意。我不能跑去吃一百磅的酱汁。

‘She’s unique!’ said the lady of the house.
“她很独特！”女主人说。

‘Marvelous!’ said someone.
“太棒了！”有人说。

The sensation produced by Princess Myakaya’s speeches was always unique, and the secret of the sensation she produced lay in the fact that though she spoke not always appropriately, as now, she said simple things with some sense in them. In the society in which she lived such plain statements produced the effect of the wittiest epigram. Princess Myakaya could never see why it had that effect, but she knew it had, and took advantage of it.
米卡娅公主的演讲所引起的轰动总是独一无二的，而她引起轰动的秘诀就在于，虽然她说话并不总是得体，但像现在这样，她说的是简单的事情，但又有些道理。在她所生活的社会里，这种平实的陈述产生了最诙谐警句的效果。妙卡娅公主永远不明白为什么它会产生这种效果，但她知道它有这种效果，并且利用了它。

As everyone had been listening while Princess Myakaya spoke, and so the conversation around the ambassador’s wife had dropped, Princess Betsy tried to bring the whole party together, and turned to the ambassador’s wife.
由于米卡娅公主讲话时每个人都在听，因此围绕大使夫人的谈话逐渐停止，贝特西公主试图将整个聚会聚集在一起，然后转向大使夫人。

‘Will you really not have tea? You should come over here by us.’
‘你真的不喝茶吗？你应该到我们这里来。

‘No, we’re very happy here,’ the ambassador’s wife responded with a smile, and she went on with the conversation that had been begun.
“不，我们在这里很开心。”大使夫人微笑着回答，然后继续刚才已经开始的谈话。

‘It was a very agreeable conversation. They were criticizing the Karenins, husband and wife.
“这是一次非常愉快的谈话。他们批评卡列宁夫妇。

‘Anna is quite changed since her stay in Moscow. There’s something strange about her,’ said her friend.
“自从来到莫斯科以来，安娜发生了很大的变化。她有一些奇怪的地方，”她的朋友说。

‘The great change is that she brought back with her the shadow of Alexey Vronsky,’ said the ambassador’s wife.
“最大的变化是她带回了阿列克谢·渥伦斯基的影子，”大使的妻子说。

‘Well, what of it? There’s a fable of Grimm’s about a man without a shadow, a man who’s lost his shadow. And that’s his punishment for something. I never could understand how it was a punishment. But a woman must dislike being without a shadow.’
‘嗯，那又怎么样？格林童话中有一个关于一个没有影子的人，一个失去了影子的人的故事。这就是他对某件事的惩罚。我始终无法理解这是一种怎样的惩罚。但女人一定不喜欢没有影子。”

‘Yes, but women with a shadow usually come to a bad end,’ said Anna’s friend.
“是的，但是有阴影的女人通常都会有不好的结局，”安娜的朋友说。

‘Bad luck to your tongue!’ said Princess Myakaya suddenly. ‘Madame Karenina’s a splendid woman. I don’t like her husband, but I like her very much.’
“你的舌头运气不好！”米卡娅公主突然说道。 “卡列尼娜夫人是一位出色的女人。我不喜欢她丈夫，但我很喜欢她。”

‘Why don’t you like her husband? He’s such a remarkable man,’ said the ambassador’s wife. ‘My husband says there are few statesmen like him in Europe.’
‘你为什么不喜欢她的丈夫？他是一个非常了不起的人，”大使的妻子说。 “我丈夫说欧洲很少有像他这样的政治家。”

‘And my husband tells me just the same, but I don’t believe it,’ said Princess Myakaya. ‘If our husbands didn’t talk to us, we should see the facts as they are. Alexey Alexandrovitch, to my thinking, is simply a fool. I say it in a whisper...but doesn’t it really make everything clear? Before, when I was told to consider him clever, I kept looking for his ability, and thought myself a fool for not seeing it; but directly I said, he’s a fool, though only in a whisper, everything’s explained, isn’t it?’
“我丈夫也这么告诉我，但我不相信，”米卡娅公主说道。 “如果我们的丈夫没有和我们说话，我们就应该看到事实的真相。在我看来，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇简直就是个傻瓜。我小声地说了一句……但这不就真的说明一切了吗？以前，当我被告知要认为他聪明时，我一直在寻找他的能力，因为没有看到它而认为自己是个傻瓜；但我直接说，他是个傻瓜，虽然只是小声说，一切都解释清楚了，不是吗？

‘How spiteful you are today!’
“你今天真是太恶毒了！”

‘Not a bit. I’d no other way out of it. One of the two had to be a fool. And, well, you know one can’t say that of oneself.’
” “一点也没有。我别无选择。这两个人中肯定有一个是傻子。而且，好吧，你知道一个人不能这样说自己。

‘‘No one is satisfied with his fortune, and everyone is satisfied with his wit.’’ The attache repeated the French saying.
“没有人对自己的财富感到满意，而每个人都对他的智慧感到满意。”武官重复着这句法国谚语。

‘That’s just it, just it,’ Princess Myakaya turned to him. ‘But the point is that I won’t abandon Anna to your mercies. She’s so nice, so charming. How can she help it if they’re all in love with her, and follow her about like shadows?’
“就是这样，就是这样。”米亚卡娅公主转向他。 “但重点是我不会把安娜抛弃在你的摆布之下。她是那么好，那么迷人。如果他们都爱她，并且像影子一样跟着她，她怎么能控制呢？

‘Oh, I had no idea of blaming her for it,’ Anna’s friend said in self-defense.
“哦，我没想到要为此责怪她，”安娜的朋友自卫地说。

‘If no one follows us about like a shadow, that’s no proof that we’ve any right to blame her.’
“如果没有人像影子一样跟着我们，这并不能证明我们有权利责怪她。”

And having duly disposed of Anna’s friend, the Princess Myakaya got up, and together with the ambassador’s wife, joined the group at the table, where the conversation was dealing with the king of Prussia.
妥善处置了安娜的朋友后，米卡娅公主起身，与大使夫人一起加入了餐桌旁的人群，谈话内容是与普鲁士国王的谈话。

‘What wicked gossip were you talking over there?’ asked Betsy.
“你在那儿说什么流言蜚语？”贝特西问。

‘About the Karenins. The princess gave us a sketch of Alexey Alexandrovitch,’ said the ambassador’s wife with a smile, as she sat down at the table.
“关于卡列宁家族。公主给了我们一张阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇的素描。”大使夫人在桌边坐下时微笑着说道。

‘Pity we didn’t hear it!’ said Princess Betsy, glancing towards the door. ‘Ah, here you are at last!’ she said, turning with a smile to Vronsky, as he came in.
“可惜我们没有听到！”贝特西公主一边说，一边朝门口看了一眼。 “啊，你终于来了！”当渥伦斯基进来时，她微笑着转身对他说道。

Vronsky was not merely acquainted with all the persons whom he was meeting here; he saw them all every day; and so he came in with the quiet manner with which one enters a room full of people from whom one has only just parted.
渥伦斯基不仅认识他在这里见到的所有人，而且还认识他。他每天都见到他们；于是，他以一种安静的态度走进了一间挤满了刚刚离开的人的房间。

‘Where do I come from?’ he said, in answer to a question from the ambassador’s wife. ‘Well, there’s no help for it, I must confess. From the opera bouffe. I do believe I’ve seen it a hundred times, and always with fresh enjoyment. It’s exquisite! I know it’s disgraceful, but I go to sleep at the opera, and I sit out the opera bouffe to the last minute, and enjoy it. This evening...’
“我从哪里来？”他在回答大使夫人的问题时说道。 “好吧，我必须承认，没有任何帮助。来自歌剧狂欢。我相信我已经看过它一百遍了，而且总是有新鲜的享受。太精致了！我知道这很丢脸，但我会在歌剧院睡觉，直到最后一刻才享受歌剧表演。今天晚上……”

He mentioned a French actress, and was going to tell something about her; but the ambassador’s wife, with playful horror, cut him short.
他提到了一位法国女演员，并打算讲述一些关于她的事情；但大使夫人带着顽皮的恐惧打断了他的话。

‘Please don’t tell us about that horror.’
“请不要告诉我们那个恐怖的事情。”

‘All right, I won’t especially as everyone knows those horrors.’
“好吧，我不会，因为每个人都知道这些恐怖。”

‘And we should all go to see them if it were accepted as the correct thing, like the opera,’ chimed in Princess Myakaya.
“如果它被认为是正确的事情，就像歌剧一样，我们都应该去看他们，”米卡亚公主插话道。

Chapter 7
第7章

Steps were heard at the door, and Princess Betsy, knowing it was Madame Karenina, glanced at Vronsky. He was looking towards the door, and his face wore a strange new expression. Joyfully, intently, and at the same time timidly, he gazed at the approaching figure, and slowly he rose to his feet. Anna walked into the drawing room. Holding herself extremely erect, as always, looking straight before her, and moving with her swift, resolute, and light step, that distinguished her from all other society women, she crossed the short space to her hostess, shook hands with her, smiled, and with the same smile looked around at Vronsky. Vronsky bowed low and pushed a chair up for her.
门口传来脚步声，贝特西公主知道是卡列尼娜夫人，便看了渥伦斯基一眼。他看向门口，脸上带着一种奇怪的新表情。他高兴地、全神贯注地、同时又有些胆怯地看着那走来的身影，然后慢慢地站了起来。安娜走进客厅。她一如既往地挺直身子，直视前方，迈着与其他上流社会女性不同的敏捷、坚定、轻盈的步伐，穿过狭小的空间，走到女主人面前，与她握手，微笑道：带着同样的微笑环顾四周渥伦斯基。渥伦斯基深深鞠了一躬，为她推了一把椅子。

She acknowledged this only by a slight nod, flushed a little, and frowned. But immediately, while rapidly greeting her acquaintances, and shaking the hands proffered to her, she addressed Princess Betsy:
她只是轻轻点头承认了这一点，脸红了一点，皱起了眉头。但立即，她一边快速地向她的熟人打招呼，一边与向她伸出的双手握手，一边对贝特西公主说道：

‘I have been at Countess Lidia’s, and meant to have come here earlier, but I stayed on. Sir John was there. He’s very interesting.’
“我去过莉迪亚伯爵夫人家，本来应该早点来的，但我留下来了。约翰爵士在那里。他很有趣。

‘Oh, that’s this missionary?’
“哦，那就是这位传教士？”

‘Yes; he told us about the life in India, most interesting things.’
'是的;他向我们讲述了印度的生活，最有趣的事情。”

The conversation, interrupted by her coming in, flickered up again like the light of a lamp being blown out.
谈话被她进来打断，又像灯火被吹灭一样闪烁起来。

‘Sir John! Yes, Sir John; I’ve seen him. He speaks well. The Vlassieva girl’s quite in love with him.’
“约翰爵士！是的，约翰爵士；我见过他。他讲得很好。弗拉西耶娃女孩非常爱他。

‘And is it true the younger Vlassieva girl’s to marry Topov?’
“弗拉西耶娃年轻的姑娘真的要嫁给托波夫吗？”

‘Yes, they say it’s quite a settled thing.’
“是的，他们说这是一件很确定的事情。”

‘I wonder at the parents! They say it’s a marriage for love.’
“我对父母感到好奇！他们说这是一场为了爱情的婚姻。

‘For love? What antediluvian notions you have! Can one talk of love in these days?’ said the ambassador’s wife.
'爱情？你的观念多么陈旧啊！这年头还能谈爱情吗？”大使夫人说道。

‘What’s to be done? It’s a foolish old fashion that’s kept up still,’ said Vronsky.
‘该怎么办？渥伦斯基说，这是一种保持原样的愚蠢的旧时尚。

‘So much the worse for those who keep up the fashion. The only happy marriages I know are marriages of prudence.’
“对于那些追赶时尚的人来说，情况更糟。”我所知道的唯一幸福的婚姻就是谨慎的婚姻。

‘Yes, but then how often the happiness of these prudent marriages flies away like dust just because that passion turns up that they have refused to recognize,’ said Vronsky.
“是的，但是这些谨慎的婚姻的幸福常常会像灰尘一样消失，只是因为他们拒绝承认的激情出现了，”渥伦斯基说。

‘But by marriages of prudence we mean those in which both parties have sown their wild oats already. That’s like scarlatina—one has to go through it and get it over.’
“但我们所说的谨慎婚姻是指双方都已经撒下野心的婚姻。这就像猩红热一样——一个人必须经历它并克服它。

‘Then they ought to find out how to vaccinate for love, like smallpox.’
“那么他们应该找出如何为爱情接种疫苗，就像接种天花一样。”

‘I was in love in my young days with a deacon,’ said the Princess Myakaya. ‘I don’t know that it did me any good.’
“我年轻时就爱上了一位执事，”米卡亚公主说道。 “我不知道这对我有什么好处。”

‘No; I imagine, joking apart, that to know love, one must make mistakes and then correct them,’ said Princess Betsy.
'不;我想，开玩笑地说，要了解爱，一个人必须犯错误，然后改正它们，”贝特西公主说。

‘Even after marriage?’ said the ambassador’s wife playfully.
“婚后也这样吗？”大使夫人开玩笑地说。

‘‘It’s never too late to mend.’’ The attache repeated the English proverb.
“亡羊补牢，永远不会太晚。”武官重复着这句英国谚语。

‘Just so,’ Betsy agreed; ‘one must make mistakes and correct them. What do you think about it?’ she turned to Anna, who, with a faintly perceptible resolute smile on her lips, was listening in silence to the conversation.
“正是如此，”贝特西同意道。 ‘人必须犯错误并改正错误。你觉得怎么样？”她转向安娜，安娜的嘴角挂着一丝若隐若现的坚定微笑，静静地听着他们的谈话。

‘I think,’ said Anna, playing with the glove she had taken off, ‘I think...of so many men, so many minds, certainly so many hearts, so many kinds of love.’
“我想，”安娜一边玩弄着她脱下的手套，一边说道，“我想……有那么多的男人，那么多的思想，当然还有那么多的心，那么多种类的爱。”

Vronsky was gazing at Anna, and with a fainting heart waiting for what she would say. He sighed as after a danger escaped when she uttered these words.
渥伦斯基注视着安娜，心微颤地等待着她说的话。当她说出这句话时，他叹了口气，仿佛危险解除了。

Anna suddenly turned to him.
安娜突然转向他。

‘Oh, I have had a letter from Moscow. They write me that Kitty Shtcherbatskaya’s very ill.’
“哦，我收到一封来自莫斯科的信。他们写信给我说基蒂·谢尔巴茨卡娅病得很重。

‘Really?’ said Vronsky, knitting his brows.
“真的吗？”渥伦斯基皱着眉头说道。

Anna looked sternly at him.
安娜严厉地看着他。

‘That doesn’t interest you?’
“你不感兴趣吗？”

‘On the contrary, it does, very much. What was it exactly they told you, if I may know?’ he questioned.
‘恰恰相反，确实如此，非常如此。如果我知道的话，他们到底告诉你了什么？”他问道。

Anna got up and went to Betsy.
安娜起身走向贝特西。

‘Give me a cup of tea,’ she said, standing at her table.
“给我一杯茶，”她站在桌边说道。

While Betsy was pouring out the tea, Vronsky went up to Anna.
当贝特西倒茶时，渥伦斯基走向安娜。

‘What is it they write to you?’ he repeated.
“他们给你写了什么？”他重复道。

‘I often think men have no understanding of what’s not honorable though they’re always talking of it,’ said Anna, without answering him. ‘I’ve wanted to tell you so a long while,’ she added, and moving a few steps away, she sat down at a table in a corner covered with albums.
“我常常认为男人们并不理解什么是不光荣的事情，尽管他们总是谈论它，”安娜说，没有回答他。 “我很早就想告诉你了，”她补充道，然后走开几步，在角落里一张摆满专辑的桌子旁坐下。

‘I don’t quite understand the meaning of your words,’ he said, handing her the cup.
“我不太明白你的话的意思，”他说，把杯子递给她。

She glanced towards the sofa beside her, and he instantly sat down.
她看了一眼身边的沙发，他立刻坐了下来。

‘Yes, I have been wanting to tell you,’ she said, not looking at him. ‘You behaved wrongly, very wrongly.’
“是的，我一直想告诉你，”她说，没有看他。 “你的行为不对，非常不对。”

‘Do you suppose I don’t know that I’ve acted wrongly? But who was the cause of my doing so?’
‘你以为我不知道我的行为是错误的吗？但谁是我这样做的原因呢？

‘What do you say that to me for?’ she said, glancing severely at him.
“你对我说这些干什么？”她严厉地看了他一眼。

‘You know what for,’ he answered boldly and joyfully, meeting her glance and not dropping his eyes.
“你知道为什么，”他大胆而快乐地回答，迎着她的目光，眼睛没有垂下。

Not he, but she, was confused.
困惑的不是他，而是她。

‘That only shows you have no heart,’ she said. But her eyes said that she knew he had a heart, and that was why she was afraid of him.
“那只能说明你没有心，”她说。但她的眼神却告诉她，她知道他有一颗心，所以她才害怕他。

‘What you spoke of just now was a mistake, and not love.’
“你刚才说的是一个错误，而不是爱情。”

‘Remember that I have forbidden you to utter that word, that hateful word,’ said Anna, with a shudder. But at once she felt that by that very word ‘forbidden’ she had shown that she acknowledged certain rights over him, and by that very fact was encouraging him to speak of love. ‘I have long meant to tell you this,’ she went on, looking resolutely into his eyes, and hot all over from the burning flush on her cheeks. ‘I’ve come on purpose this evening, knowing I should meet you. I have come to tell you that this must end. I have never blushed before anyone, and you force me to feel to blame for something.’
“记住，我禁止你说出那个词，那个可恶的词，”安娜颤抖着说道。但她立刻感到，“禁止”这个词本身就表明她承认对他有某些权利，而正是这一事实鼓励他谈论爱情。 “我早就想告诉你这件事了，”她继续说道，坚定地看着他的眼睛，脸颊上烧得通红，浑身发热。 “我今天晚上是特意来的，因为我知道我应该见到你。我来是为了告诉你这一切必须结束。我从来没有在任何人面前脸红过，而你却让我觉得自己应该为某件事负责。”

He looked at her and was struck by a new spiritual beauty in her face.
他看着她，被她脸上一种新的精神之美所震撼。

‘What do you wish of me?’ he said simply and seriously.
“你希望我做什么？”他简单而严肃地说道。

‘I want you to go to Moscow and ask for Kitty’s forgiveness,’ she said.
“我希望你去莫斯科请求基蒂的原谅，”她说。

‘You don’t wish that?’ he said.
“你不希望这样吗？”他说。

He saw she was saying what she forced herself to say, not what she wanted to say.
他看到她说的是她强迫自己说的话，而不是她想说的话。

‘If you love me, as you say,’ she whispered, ‘do so that I may be at peace.’
“如果你爱我，就像你说的那样，”她低声说道，“那就这么做吧，这样我才能安心。”

His face grew radiant.
他的脸变得容光焕发。

‘Don’t you know that you’re all my life to me? But I know no peace, and I can’t give it to you; all myself—and love...yes. I can’t think of you and myself apart. You and I are one to me. And I see no chance before us of peace for me or for you. I see a chance of despair, of wretchedness...or I see a chance of bliss, what bliss!... Can it be there’s no chance of it?’ he murmured with his lips; but she heard.
‘你难道不知道你是我生命的全部吗？但我不知道平安，我无法给你；全部是我自己——还有爱……是的。我无法将你和我自己分开。你和我对我而言是一体的。我看不到我们面前有为我或你带来和平的机会。 “我看到了绝望、悲惨的机会……或者我看到了幸福的机会，多么幸福啊！……难道就没有机会了吗？”他用嘴唇低声说道；但她听到了。

She strained every effort of her mind to say what ought to be said. But instead of that she let her eyes rest on him, full of love, and made no answer.
她竭尽全力说出该说的话。但她并没有这么做，而是用充满爱意的目光落在他身上，没有回答。

‘It’s come!’ he thought in ecstasy. ‘When I was beginning to despair, and it seemed there would be no end—it’s come! She loves me! She owns it!’
“来了！”他狂喜地想。 ‘当我开始绝望，似乎没有尽头时——它来了！她爱我！她拥有它！

‘Then do this for me: never say such things to me, and let us be friends,’ she said in words; but her eyes spoke quite differently.
“那就为我做这件事：永远不要对我说这样的话，让我们成为朋友吧，”她说道。但她的眼神却截然不同。

‘Friends we shall never be, you know that yourself. Whether we shall be the happiest or the wretchedest of people—that’s in your hands.’
“我们永远不会成为朋友，你自己也知道这一点。无论我们是最幸福的人还是最不幸的人——这都在你的手中。”

She would have said something, but he interrupted her.
她本来想说什么，但他打断了她。

‘I ask one thing only: I ask for the right to hope, to suffer as I do. But if even that cannot be, command me to disappear, and I disappear. You shall not see me if my presence is distasteful to you.’
“我只要求一件事：我要求拥有希望的权利，以及像我一样受苦的权利。但如果连这都做不到，请命令我消失，我就会消失。如果你不喜欢我的存在，你就不会看到我。

‘I don’t want to drive you away.’
“我不想赶你走。”

‘Only don’t change anything, leave everything as it is,’ he said in a shaky voice. ‘Here’s your husband.’
“只是不要改变任何事情，一切保持原样，”他用颤抖的声音说道。 “这是你的丈夫。”

At that instant Alexey Alexandrovitch did in fact walk into the room with his calm, awkward gait.
就在那一刻，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇确实以他平静而笨拙的步态走进了房间。

Glancing at his wife and Vronsky, he went up to the lady of the house, and sitting down for a cup of tea, began talking in his deliberate, always audible voice, in his habitual tone of banter, ridiculing someone.
他看了一眼他的妻子和渥伦斯基，走到女主人面前，坐下来喝了杯茶，开始用他那从容的、总是听得见的声音说话，用他惯常的戏谑语气，嘲笑某人。

‘Your Rambouillet is in full conclave,’ he said, looking round at all the party; ‘the graces and the muses.’
“你们的朗布依埃正在全体秘密会议中，”他环顾四周说道。 “恩典和缪斯。”

But Princess Betsy could not endure that tone of his— ‘sneering,’ as she called it, using the English word, and like a skillful hostess she at once brought him into a serious conversation on the subject of universal conscription. Alexey Alexandrovitch was immediately interested in the subject, and began seriously defending the new imperial decree against Princess Betsy, who had attacked it.
但贝特西公主无法忍受他的语气——她用英语称之为“嘲笑”，像一位熟练的女主人一样，她立即让他就全民征兵的话题进行了严肃的交谈。阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇立即对这个话题产生了兴趣，并开始认真捍卫新的帝国法令，反对贝特西公主的攻击。

Vronsky and Anna still sat at the little table.
渥伦斯基和安娜仍然坐在小桌子旁。

‘This is getting indecorous,’ whispered one lady, with an expressive glance at Madame Karenina, Vronsky, and her husband.
“这太不雅观了，”一位女士低声说道，同时富有表情地看了卡列尼娜夫人、渥伦斯基和她的丈夫一眼。

‘What did I tell you?’ said Anna’s friend.
“我告诉你什么了？”安娜的朋友说。

But not only those ladies, almost everyone in the room, even the Princess Myakaya and Betsy herself, looked several times in the direction of the two who had withdrawn from the general circle, as though that were a disturbing fact. Alexey Alexandrovitch was the only person who did not once look in that direction, and was not diverted from the interesting discussion he had entered upon.
但不光是那些女士，几乎在场的所有人，甚至包括米亚卡娅公主和贝琪本人，都多次向退出大圈的两人的方向看了几眼，仿佛这是一个令人不安的事实。阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇是唯一一个没有朝那个方向看，也没有从他所进行的有趣讨论中转移注意力的人。

Noticing the disagreeable impression that was being made on everyone, Princess Betsy slipped someone else into her place to listen to Alexey Alexandrovitch, and went up to Anna.
贝特西公主注意到每个人都给人留下了不愉快的印象，便让另一个人坐在她的位置上听阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇讲话，然后走到安娜身边。

‘I’m always amazed at the clearness and precision of your husband’s language,’ she said. ‘The most transcendental ideas seem to be within my grasp when he’s speaking.’
“我总是对你丈夫语言的清晰和精确感到惊讶，”她说。 “当他说话时，最超然的想法似乎都在我的掌握之中。”

‘Oh, yes!’ said Anna, radiant with a smile of happiness, and not understanding a word of what Betsy had said. She crossed over to the big table and took part in the general conversation.
“哦，是的！”安娜说，脸上洋溢着幸福的微笑，但贝琪说的话却一句也听不懂。她走到大桌子旁，参与了大家的谈话。

Alexey Alexandrovitch, after staying half an hour, went up to his wife and suggested that they should go home together. But she answered, not looking at him, that she was staying to supper. Alexey Alexandrovitch made his bows and withdrew.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇呆了半个小时后，走到妻子面前建议他们一起回家。但她没有看他，回答说她要留下来吃晚饭。阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇鞠了一躬，退了出去。

The fat old Tatar, Madame Karenina’s coachman, was with difficulty holding one of her pair of grays, chilled with the cold and rearing at the entrance. A footman stood opening the carriage door. The hall porter stood holding open the great door of the house. Anna Arkadyevna, with her quick little hand, was unfastening the lace of her sleeve, caught in the hook of her fur cloak, and with bent head listening to the words Vronsky murmured as he escorted her down.
卡列尼娜夫人的马车夫，又胖又老的鞑靼人，在入口处冻得直立着，艰难地握住了她的一双灰马车。一名男仆站在那里打开车厢门。门房站在那儿，打开着房子的大门。安娜·阿尔卡季耶芙娜用她那敏捷的小手，解开了她毛皮斗篷钩子上的袖子花边，低着头听着渥伦斯基护送她下去时低声说的话。

‘You’ve said nothing, of course, and I ask nothing,’ he was saying; ‘but you know that friendship’s not what I want: that there’s only one happiness in life for me, that word that you dislike so...yes, love!...’
“当然，你什么也没说，我也什么也没问。”他说道。 “但你知道友谊不是我想要的：对我来说，生命中只有一种幸福，你不喜欢这个词，所以……是的，爱！……”

‘Love,’ she repeated slowly, in an inner voice, and suddenly, at the very instant she unhooked the lace, she added, ‘Why I don’t like the word is that it means too much to me, far more than you can understand,’ and she glanced into his face. ‘Au revoir!’
“爱，”她用内心的声音慢慢地重复着，突然，在她解开花边的那一刻，她补充道，“我为什么不喜欢这个词，因为它对我来说意味着太多，远远超过你。”能理解，”她看着他的脸。 “再见！”

She gave him her hand, and with her rapid, springy step she passed by the porter and vanished into the carriage.
她伸出手来，迈着轻快的步伐，越过门房，消失在马车里。

Her glance, the touch of her hand, set him aflame. He kissed the palm of his hand where she had touched it, and went home, happy in the sense that he had got nearer to the attainment of his aims that evening than during the last two months.
她的目光，她的手的触碰，都让他着火了。他亲吻了她触摸过的手掌，然后回家了，他很高兴，因为那天晚上他比过去两个月更接近实现自己的目标。

Chapter 8
第8章

Alexey Alexandrovitch had seen nothing striking or improper in the fact that his wife was sitting with Vronsky at a table apart, in eager conversation with him about something. But he noticed that to the rest of the party this appeared something striking and improper, and for that reason it seemed to him too to be improper. He made up his mind that he must speak of it to his wife.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇并不认为他的妻子与渥伦斯基分开坐在一张桌子旁，热切地与他谈论某事，这一事实没有什么引人注目或不妥的地方。但他注意到，对于党内的其他人来说，这似乎是一件令人震惊和不恰当的事情，因此，在他看来，这也是不恰当的。他决定一定要把这件事告诉他的妻子。

On reaching home Alexey Alexandrovitch went to his study, as he usually did, seated himself in his low chair, opened a book on the Papacy at the place where he had laid the paper-knife in it, and read till one o’clock, just as he usually did. But from time to time he rubbed his high forehead and shook his head, as though to drive away something. At his usual time he got up and made his toilet for the night. Anna Arkadyevna had not yet come in. With a book under his arm he went upstairs. But this evening, instead of his usual thoughts and meditations upon official details, his thoughts were absorbed by his wife and something disagreeable connected with her. Contrary to his usual habit, he did not get into bed, but fell to walking up and down the rooms with his hands clasped behind his back. He could not go to bed, feeling that it was absolutely needful for him first to think thoroughly over the position that had just arisen.
回到家后，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇像往常一样去了他的书房，坐在矮椅子上，在他放裁纸刀的地方打开一本关于教皇的书，读到一点钟，就像他平常做的那样。但他时不时地揉着高高的额头，摇摇头，仿佛要赶走什么东西。他按照平常的时间起床，准备晚上的厕所。安娜·阿尔卡季耶夫娜还没有进来。他腋下夹着一本书上楼了。但今天晚上，他没有像往常那样思考和沉思官方细节，而是全神贯注于他的妻子以及与她有关的一些不愉快的事情。一反常态，他没有上床，而是背着手在房间里走来走去。他无法上床睡觉，觉得自己必须先彻底思考一下刚刚出现的情况。

When Alexey Alexandrovitch had made up his mind that he must talk to his wife about it, it had seemed a very easy and simple matter. But now, when he began to think over the question that had just presented itself, it seemed to him very complicated and difficult.
当阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇决定必须和他的妻子谈谈这件事时，这似乎是一件非常容易和简单的事情。但现在，当他开始思考刚才提出的问题时，他觉得这个问题非常复杂和困难。

Alexey Alexandrovitch was not jealous. Jealousy according to his notions was an insult to one’s wife, and one ought to have confidence in one’s wife. Why one ought to have confidence— that is to say, complete conviction that his young wife would always love him—he did not ask himself. But he had no experience of lack of confidence, because he had confidence in her, and told himself that he ought to have it. Now, though his conviction that jealousy was a shameful feeling and that one ought to feel confidence, had not broken down, he felt that he was standing face to face with something illogical and irrational, and did not know what was to be done. Alexey Alexandrovitch was standing face to face with life, with the possibility of his wife’s loving someone other than himself, and this seemed to him very irrational and incomprehensible because it was life itself. All his life Alexey Alexandrovitch had lived and worked in official spheres, having to do with the reflection of life. And every time he had stumbled against life itself he had shrunk away from it. Now he experienced a feeling akin to that of a man who, while calmly crossing a precipice by a bridge, should suddenly discover that the bridge is broken, and that there is a chasm below. That chasm was life itself, the bridge that artificial life in which Alexey Alexandrovitch had lived. For the first time the question presented itself to him of the possibility of his wife’s loving someone else, and he was horrified at it.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇并不嫉妒。按照他的观念，嫉妒是对妻子的侮辱，对妻子应该有信心。为什么一个人应该有信心——也就是说，完全相信他年轻的妻子会永远爱他——他没有问自己。但他并没有缺乏自信的经历，因为他对她有信心，并且告诉自己应该有信心。现在，尽管他坚信嫉妒是一种可耻的感觉，应该感到自信，这一信念还没有崩溃，但他觉得自己面对着一些不合逻辑、不合理的事情，不知道该怎么办。阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇正面临着生活，他的妻子有可能爱自己以外的人，这对他来说似乎非常不合理和不可理解，因为这就是生活本身。阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇一生都在官方领域生活和工作，与生活的反思有关。每当他遇到生活本身时，他就会退缩。现在他有一种感觉，就像一个人在桥上平静地跨过悬崖时，突然发现桥断了，下面有一个深渊。这条鸿沟就是生命本身，是阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇所居住的人造生命的桥梁。他第一次想到他的妻子有可能爱上别人，他对此感到震惊。

He did not undress, but walked up and down with his regular tread over the resounding parquet of the dining room, where one lamp was burning, over the carpet of the dark drawing room, in which the light was reflected on the big new portrait of himself hanging over the sofa, and across her boudoir, where two candles burned, lighting up the portraits of her parents and woman friends, and the pretty knick-knacks of her writing table, that he knew so well. He walked across her boudoir to the bedroom door, and turned back again. At each turn in his walk, especially at the parquet of the lighted dining room, he halted and said to himself, ‘Yes, this I must decide and put a stop to; I must express my view of it and my decision.’ And he turned back again. ‘But express what—what decision?’ he said to himself in the drawing room, and he found no reply. ‘But after all,’ he asked himself before turning into the boudoir, ‘what has occurred? Nothing. She was talking a long while with him. But what of that? Surely women in society can talk to whom they please. And then, jealousy means lowering both myself and her,’ he told himself as he went into her boudoir; but this dictum, which had always had such weight with him before, had now no weight and no meaning at all. And from the bedroom door he turned back again; but as he entered the dark drawing room some inner voice told him that it was not so, and that if others noticed it that showed that there was something. And he said to himself again in the dining room, ‘Yes, I must decide and put a stop to it, and express my view of it...’ And again at the turn in the drawing room he asked himself, ‘Decide how?’ And again he asked himself, ‘What had occurred?’ and answered, ‘Nothing,’ and recollected that jealousy was a feeling insulting to his wife; but again in the drawing room he was convinced that something had happened. His thoughts, like his body, went round a complete circle, without coming upon anything new. He noticed this, rubbed his forehead, and sat down in her boudoir.
他没有脱衣服，而是以规律的步伐在餐厅响亮的镶木地板上走来走去，那里点着一盏灯，在黑暗的客厅的地毯上走来走去，灯光反射在新的大肖像上。他自己挂在沙发上，穿过她的闺房，那里燃烧着两根蜡烛，照亮了她父母和女性朋友的肖像，还有她写字台上的漂亮小摆设，这些他都熟悉。他穿过她的闺房，来到卧室门口，又折返。在他行走的每一个转弯处，尤其是在灯火通明的餐厅的镶木地板上，他都会停下来对自己说：“是的，我必须决定并停止这一切；”我必须表达我的看法和我的决定。”然后他又转回来。 “但是表达什么——什么决定呢？”他在客厅里自言自语，但没有找到答案。 “但毕竟，”他在走进闺房之前问自己，“到底发生了什么？没有什么。她和他聊了很长时间。但那又怎样呢？当然，社会上的女性可以与她们喜欢的人交谈。然后，嫉妒就意味着降低我自己和她的地位，”当他走进她的闺房时，他告诉自己。但这句话以前对他来说一直很重要，现在却毫无分量，毫无意义。他从卧室门口又转回来；但当他走进黑暗的客厅时，内心的某个声音告诉他事实并非如此，如果其他人注意到了这一点，就表明有什么事情。他在餐厅里再次对自己说，“是的，我必须决定并制止这件事，并表达我的看法……”在客厅里，他再次问自己，“决定如何做” ”他又问自己，“发生了什么事？’他回答说：‘没什么’，然后他想起嫉妒是一种对妻子的侮辱。但在客厅里，他再次确信发生了什么事。他的思想和他的身体一样，转了一圈，没有想到任何新的东西。他察觉到了这一点，揉了揉额头，在她的闺房里坐了下来。

There, looking at her table, with the malachite blotting case lying at the top and an unfinished letter, his thoughts suddenly changed. He began to think of her, of what she was thinking and feeling. For the first time he pictured vividly to himself her personal life, her ideas, her desires, and the idea that she could and should have a separate life of her own seemed to him so alarming that he made haste to dispel it. It was the chasm which he was afraid to peep into. To put himself in thought and feeling in another person’s place was a spiritual exercise not natural to Alexey Alexandrovitch. He looked on this spiritual exercise as a harmful and dangerous abuse of the fancy.
在那里，看着她的桌子，上面放着孔雀石吸墨盒，还有一封未写完的信，他的想法突然改变了。他开始想起她，想起她的想法和感受。他第一次生动地向自己描绘了她的个人生活、她的想法、她的欲望，以及她可以而且应该拥有自己独立生活的想法，这对他来说是如此令人震惊，以至于他赶紧驱散了它。这是他不敢窥视的鸿沟。对阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇来说，设身处地地思考和感受是一种不自然的精神练习。他认为这种精神练习是对幻想的有害且危险的滥用。

‘And the worst of it all,’ thought he, ‘is that just now, at the very moment when my great work is approaching completion’ (he was thinking of the project he was bringing forward at the time), ‘when I stand in need of all my mental peace and all my energies, just now this stupid worry should fall foul of me. But what’s to be done? I’m not one of those men who submit to uneasiness and worry without having the force of character to face them.
“最糟糕的是，”他想，“就在我伟大的工作即将完成的时刻”（他正在思考他当时提出的项目），“当我站起来时我需要所有的精神平静和所有的精力，现在这种愚蠢的担心应该会困扰我。但该怎么办呢？我不是那些屈服于不安和担忧却没有勇气面对它们的人之一。

‘I must think it over, come to a decision, and put it out of my mind,’ he said aloud.
“我必须仔细考虑，做出决定，然后把它抛到脑后，”他大声说道。

‘The question of her feelings, of what has passed and may be passing in her soul, that’s not my affair; that’s the affair of her conscience, and falls under the head of religion,’ he said to himself, feeling consolation in the sense that he had found to which division of regulating principles this new circumstance could be properly referred.
“关于她的感受的问题，关于她灵魂中已经过去和可能正在发生的事情，那不关我的事；这是她良心的事，属于宗教的范畴。”他自言自语道，感到安慰的是，他已经找到了这种新情况可以适当参考规范原则的哪个部分。

‘And so,’ Alexey Alexandrovitch said to himself, ‘questions as to her feelings, and so on, are questions for her conscience, with which I can have nothing to do. My duty is clearly defined. As the head of the family, I am a person bound in duty to guide her, and consequently, in part the person responsible; I am bound to point out the danger I perceive, to warn her, even to use my authority. I ought to speak plainly to her.’ And everything that he would say tonight to his wife took clear shape in Alexey Alexandrovitch’s head. Thinking over what he would say, he somewhat regretted that he should have to use his time and mental powers for domestic consumption, with so little to show for it, but, in spite of that, the form and contents of the speech before him shaped itself as clearly and distinctly in his head as a ministerial report.
“所以，”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇自言自语道，“关于她感情的问题等等，都是关于她良心的问题，我对此无能为力。我的职责是明确的。作为一家之主，我是有义务引导她的人，因此，我也是负有一定责任的人；我必须指出我所察觉的危险，警告她，甚至使用我的权威。我应该坦白地跟她说话。”今晚他要对妻子说的一切都在阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇的脑海中清晰地浮现出来。想到自己要说的话，他有些遗憾，自己应该把时间和精力都花在国内消费上，而没有什么表现，但尽管如此，他面前演讲的形式和内容还是影响了他的表现。其本身就像一份部长级报告一样清晰地存在于他的脑海中。

‘I must say and express fully the following points: first, exposition of the value to be attached to public opinion and to decorum; secondly, exposition of religious significance of marriage; thirdly, if need be, reference to the calamity possibly ensuing to our son; fourthly, reference to the unhappiness likely to result to herself.’ And, interlacing his fingers, Alexey Alexandrovitch stretched them, and the joints of the fingers cracked. This trick, a bad habit, the cracking of his fingers, always soothed him, and gave precision to his thoughts, so needful to him at this juncture.
我必须说并充分表达以下几点：第一，阐述舆论的价值和礼仪的价值；其次，阐述了婚姻的宗教意义；第三，如果需要的话，提及我们儿子可能遭受的灾难；第四，提到可能给她带来的不幸。”然后，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇十指交扣，伸展着手指，手指的关节裂开了。这个把戏，一个坏习惯，手指的响声，总能让他平静下来，并使他的思想更加精确，这对他在这个节骨眼上是非常需要的。

There was the sound of a carriage driving up to the front door. Alexey Alexandrovitch halted in the middle of the room.
门口传来马车行驶的声音。阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇在房间中央停了下来。

A woman’s step was heard mounting the stairs. Alexey Alexandrovitch, ready for his speech, stood compressing his crossed fingers, waiting to see if the crack would not come again. One joint cracked.
听见一个女人上楼梯的脚步声。阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇站在那里，十指交叉，准备好演讲，等待着裂缝是否会再次出现。一个关节裂了。

Already, from the sound of light steps on the stairs, he was aware that she was close, and though he was satisfied with his speech, he felt frightened of the explanation confronting him...
从楼梯上的轻微脚步声中，他已经意识到她就在附近，尽管他对自己的演讲感到满意，但他对眼前的解释感到害怕……

Chapter 9
第9章

Anna came in with hanging head, playing with the tassels of her hood. Her face was brilliant and glowing; but this glow was not one of brightness; it suggested the fearful glow of a conflagration in the midst of a dark night. On seeing her husband, Anna raised her head and smiled, as though she had just waked up.
安娜低着头进来，玩弄着兜帽上的流苏。她的脸容光焕发，容光焕发。但这种光芒并不是一种亮度；而是一种光芒。它让人联想到黑夜中熊熊燃烧的可怕光芒。看到丈夫，安娜抬起头，微笑起来，就像刚刚睡醒一样。

‘You’re not in bed? What a wonder!’ she said, letting fall her hood, and without stopping, she went on into the dressing room. ‘It’s late, Alexey Alexandrovitch,’ she said, when she had gone through the doorway.
‘你没在床上吗？太神奇了！”她一边说着，一边脱下了兜帽，然后没有停下来，继续走进更衣室。 “很晚了，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇，”她走进门口后说道。

‘Anna, it’s necessary for me to have a talk with you.’
“安娜，我有必要和你谈谈。”

‘With me?’ she said, wonderingly. She came out from behind the door of the dressing room, and looked at him. ‘Why, what is it? What about?’ she asked, sitting down. ‘Well, let’s talk, if it’s so necessary. But it would be better to get to sleep.’
“和我一起吗？”她疑惑地说。她从更衣室门后走出来，看着他。 ‘为什么，那是什么？怎么样？”她坐下来问道。 “好吧，如果有必要的话，我们谈谈吧。但最好还是去睡觉吧。”

Anna said what came to her lips, and marveled, hearing herself, at her own capacity for lying. How simple and natural were her words, and how likely that she was simply sleepy! She felt herself clad in an impenetrable armor of falsehood. She felt that some unseen force had come to her aid and was supporting her.
安娜说出了她想说的话，听到自己的声音，她对自己撒谎的能力感到惊讶。她的话多么简单自然，多么可能只是困了！她感觉自己披上了一层坚不可摧的谎言铠甲。她感觉有一股无形的力量来帮助她、支持她。

‘Anna, I must warn you,’ he began.
“安娜，我必须警告你，”他开始说道。

‘Warn me?’ she said. ‘Of what?’
“警告我？”她说。 “什么？”

She looked at him so simply, so brightly, that anyone who did not know her as her husband knew her could not have noticed anything unnatural, either in the sound or the sense of her words. But to him, knowing her, knowing that whenever he went to bed five minutes later than usual, she noticed it, and asked him the reason; to him, knowing that every joy, every pleasure and pain that she felt she communicated to him at once; to him, now to see that she did not care to notice his state of mind, that she did not care to say a word about herself, meant a great deal. He saw that the inmost recesses of her soul, that had always hitherto lain open before him, were closed against him. More than that, he saw from her tone that she was not even perturbed at that, but as it were said straight out to him: ‘Yes, it’s shut up, and so it must be, and will be in future.’ Now he experienced a feeling such as a man might have, returning home and finding his own house locked up. ‘But perhaps the key may yet be found,’ thought Alexey Alexandrovitch.
她看着他，目光如此单纯，如此明亮，以至于任何一个不认识她、不认识她的人，都不会注意到她的语气和语气有什么不自然的地方。但对他来说，了解她，知道每当他比平常晚五分钟上床睡觉时，她都会注意到，并问他原因；她知道她所感受到的每一种喜悦、每一种快乐和痛苦都会立即传达给他；对他来说，现在看到她不关心他的心情，不关心谈论自己，这意义重大。他看到她灵魂的最深处，迄今为止一直在他面前敞开的，现在却对他关闭了。不仅如此，他从她的语气中看出她对此并没有感到不安，而是直接对他说：“是的，它已经被关闭了，所以它必须如此，而且将来也会如此。”现在他经历了一种男人可能有的感觉，回到家，发现自己的房子被锁了。 “但也许钥匙还可以找到，”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇想。

‘I want to warn you,’ he said in a low voice, ‘that through thoughtlessness and lack of caution you may cause yourself to be talked about in society. Your too animated conversation this evening with Count Vronsky’ (he enunciated the name firmly and with deliberate emphasis) ‘attracted attention.’
“我想警告你，”他低声说道，“由于你的轻率和缺乏谨慎，你可能会导致自己在社会上受到议论。”今晚你与渥伦斯基伯爵的谈话太过热烈”（他坚定地、刻意强调地念出这个名字）“引起了人们的注意。”

He talked and looked at her laughing eyes, which frightened him now with their impenetrable look, and, as he talked, he felt all the uselessness and idleness of his words.
他一边说话，一边看着她那双笑眯眯的眼睛，那双眼睛深不可测的神情现在让他感到害怕，而且，当他说话的时候，他感到自己的话毫无用处，毫无意义。

‘You’re always like that,’ she answered, as though completely misapprehending him, and of all he had said only taking in the last phrase. ‘One time you don’t like my being dull, and another time you don’t like my being lively. I wasn’t dull. Does that offend you?’
“你总是这样。”她回答道，仿佛完全误解了他的意思，而他只听了最后一句话。有时候你不喜欢我沉闷，有时候你不喜欢我活泼。我并不沉闷。这冒犯你了吗？

Alexey Alexandrovitch shivered, and bent his hands to make the joints crack.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇颤抖着，弯曲双手，让关节裂开。

‘Oh, please, don’t do that, I do so dislike it,’ she said.
“哦，拜托，不要这样做，我真的不喜欢它，”她说。

‘Anna, is this you?’ said Alexey Alexandrovitch, quietly making an effort over himself, and restraining the motion of his fingers.
“安娜，这是你吗？”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇说道，他轻声地用力控制自己，克制住手指的动作。

‘But what is it all about?’ she said, with such genuine and droll wonder. ‘What do you want of me?’
“但这到底是怎么回事？”她带着如此真诚而滑稽的好奇问道。 “你想要我做什么？”

Alexey Alexandrovitch paused, and rubbed his forehead and his eyes. He saw that instead of doing as he had intended—that is to say, warning his wife against a mistake in the eyes of the world—he had unconsciously become agitated over what was the affair of her conscience, and was struggling against the barrier he fancied between them.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇停了下来，揉了揉额头和眼睛。他看到，他并没有按照自己的意愿行事，也就是说，警告妻子不要犯世人眼中的错误，而是无意识地为她的良心问题而变得焦躁不安，并与他的障碍作斗争。幻想着他们之间。

‘This is what I meant to say to you,’ he went on coldly and composedly, ‘and I beg you to listen to it. I consider jealousy, as you know, a humiliating and degrading feeling, and I shall never allow myself to be influenced by it; but there are certain rules of decorum which cannot be disregarded with impunity. This evening it was not I observed it, but judging by the impression made on the company, everyone observed that your conduct and deportment were not altogether what could be desired.’
“这就是我想对你说的话，”他冷冷而平静地继续说道，“我请求你听听。”如你所知，我认为嫉妒是一种羞辱和有辱人格的感觉，我永远不会让自己受到它的影响；但有一些礼仪规则不能忽视而不受惩罚。今天晚上不是我观察到的，而是从给公司的印象来看，大家都觉得你的行为举止不太合乎要求。

‘I positively don’t understand,’ said Anna, shrugging her shoulders—‘He doesn’t care,’ she thought. ‘But other people noticed it, and that’s what upsets him.’—‘You’re not well, Alexey Alexandrovitch,’ she added, and she got up, and would have gone towards the door; but he moved forward as though he would stop her.
“我实在不明白，”安娜耸耸肩说道，“他不在乎，”她想。 “但是其他人注意到了这一点，这就是让他心烦意乱的原因。”——“你不太舒服，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇，”她补充道，然后她站了起来，本来要朝门口走去的。但他向前迈步，仿佛要阻止她。

His face was ugly and forbidding, as Anna had never seen him. She stopped, and bending her head back and on one side, began with her rapid hand taking out her hairpins.
他的脸丑陋而令人生畏，安娜从未见过他。她停了下来，把头向后仰向一侧，开始快速地拿出她的发夹。

‘Well, I’m listening to what’s to come,’ she said, calmly and ironically; ‘and indeed I listen with interest, for I should like to understand what’s the matter.’
“好吧，我正在听即将发生的事情，”她平静而讽刺地说道。 “事实上，我饶有兴趣地听着，因为我想了解到底是怎么回事。”

She spoke, and marveled at the confident, calm, and natural tone in which she was speaking, and the choice of the words she used.
她说话了，她自信、平静、自然的语气和用词的选择令她惊叹不已。

‘To enter into all the details of your feelings I have no right, and besides, I regard that as useless and even harmful,’ began Alexey Alexandrovitch. ‘Ferreting in one’s soul, one often ferrets out something that might have lain there unnoticed. Your feelings are an affair of your own conscience; but I am in duty bound to you, to myself, and to God, to point out to you your duties. Our life has been joined, not by man, but by God. That union can only be severed by a crime, and a crime of that nature brings its own chastisement.’
“我没有权利了解你感情的所有细节，而且，我认为这是无用的，甚至是有害的，”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇开始说道。 “在一个人的灵魂中搜寻，常常会找出一些可能未被注意到的东西。你的感受是你自己良心的事；但我对你、对我自己、对上帝都有责任向你指出你的职责。我们的生命不是由人而是由神结合在一起的。这种结合只能因犯罪而被切断，而这种性质的犯罪会带来自己的惩罚。

‘I don’t understand a word. And, oh dear! how sleepy I am, unluckily,’ she said, rapidly passing her hand through her hair, feeling for the remaining hairpins.
‘我一个字都听不懂。而且，哦，亲爱的！不幸的是，我太困了。”她一边说，一边快速地用手梳理头发，寻找剩下的发夹。

‘Anna, for God’s sake don’t speak like that!’ he said gently. ‘Perhaps I am mistaken, but believe me, what I say, I say as much for myself as for you. I am your husband, and I love you.’
“安娜，看在上帝份上，别这样说话！”他温柔地说。 “也许我错了，但请相信我，我所说的，我说的既是为我自己说的，也是为你说的。”我是你的丈夫，我爱你。

For an instant her face fell, and the mocking gleam in her eyes died away; but the word love threw her into revolt again. She thought: ‘Love? Can he love? If he hadn’t heard there was such a thing as love, he would never have used the word. He doesn’t even know what love is.’
刹那间，她的脸色沉了下来，眼中嘲讽的光芒消失了。但爱这个词再次让她产生了反抗。她想：‘爱？他能爱吗？如果他没有听说过有爱这个东西，他永远不会使用这个词。他甚至不知道什么是爱。

‘Alexey Alexandrovitch, really I don’t understand,’ she said. ‘Define what it is you find...’
“阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇，我真的不明白，”她说。 “定义你发现了什么……”

‘Pardon, let me say all I have to say. I love you. But I am not speaking of myself; the most important persons in this matter are our son and yourself. It may very well be, I repeat, that my words seem to you utterly unnecessary and out of place; it may be that they are called forth by my mistaken impression. In that case, I beg you to forgive me. But if you are conscious yourself of even the smallest foundation for them, then I beg you to think a little, and if your heart prompts you, to speak out to me...’
‘请原谅，让我说出我要说的一切。我爱你。但我不是在说我自己；我是在说我自己。在这件事上最重要的人是我们的儿子和你自己。我再说一遍，很可能我的话对你来说完全没有必要，也不合适。可能是我的错误印象引起了他们的注意。既然如此，我请求你原谅我。但如果你意识到他们的哪怕是最小的基础，那么我恳求你想一下，如果你的心提示你，就对我说出来……”

Alexey Alexandrovitch was unconsciously saying something utterly unlike what he had prepared.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇无意识地说了一些与他准备的完全不同的话。

‘I have nothing to say. And besides,’ she said hurriedly, with difficulty repressing a smile, ‘it’s really time to be in bed.’
'我无话可说了。而且，”她急忙说道，难以抑制微笑，“真的到了该上床睡觉的时候了。”

Alexey Alexandrovitch sighed, and, without saying more, went into the bedroom.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇叹了口气，没有再说什么，走进了卧室。

When she came into the bedroom, he was already in bed. His lips were sternly compressed, and his eyes looked away from her. Anna got into her bed, and lay expecting every minute that he would begin to speak to her again. She both feared his speaking and wished for it. But he was silent. She waited for a long while without moving, and had forgotten about him. She thought of that other; she pictured him, and felt how her heart was flooded with emotion and guilty delight at the thought of him. Suddenly she heard an even, tranquil snore. For the first instant Alexey Alexandrovitch seemed, as it were, appalled at his own snoring, and ceased; but after an interval of two breathings the snore sounded again, with a new tranquil rhythm.
当她走进卧室的时候，他已经躺在床上了。他的嘴唇紧紧地抿着，目光从她身上移开。安娜躺在床上，每一分钟都期待着他再次开始和她说话。她既害怕他说话，又希望他说话。但他沉默了。她等了许久，一动不动，已经把他忘记了。她想到了另一个；她想象着他，一想到他，她的心就充满了情感和罪恶感。突然，她听到了均匀、平静的鼾声。阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇一开始似乎对自己的鼾声感到震惊，然后停止了。但隔了两次呼吸之后，鼾声又响起，带着一种新的平静的节奏。

‘It’s late, it’s late,’ she whispered with a smile. A long while she lay, not moving, with open eyes, whose brilliance she almost fancied she could herself see in the darkness.
“很晚了，很晚了。”她微笑着低声说道。她睁着眼睛，一动不动地躺了很长一段时间，她几乎觉得自己可以在黑暗中看到眼睛的光彩。

Chapter 10
第10章

From that time a new life began for Alexey Alexandrovitch and for his wife. Nothing special happened. Anna went out into society, as she had always done, was particularly often at Princess Betsy’s, and met Vronsky everywhere. Alexey Alexandrovitch saw this, but could do nothing. All his efforts to draw her into open discussion she confronted with a barrier which he could not penetrate, made up of a sort of amused perplexity. Outwardly everything was the same, but their inner relations were completely changed. Alexey Alexandrovitch, a man of great power in the world of politics, felt himself helpless in this. Like an ox with head bent, submissively he awaited the blow which he felt was lifted over him. Every time he began to think about it, he felt that he must try once more, that by kindness, tenderness, and persuasion there was still hope of saving her, of bringing her back to herself, and every day he made ready to talk to her. But every time he began talking to her, he felt that the spirit of evil and deceit, which had taken possession of her, had possession of him too, and he talked to her in a tone quite unlike that in which he had meant to talk. Involuntarily he talked to her in his habitual tone of jeering at anyone who should say what he was saying. And in that tone it was impossible to say what needed to be said to her.
从那时起，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇和他的妻子开始了新的生活。没有什么特别的事情发生。安娜像往常一样走进社会，尤其经常去贝齐公主家，到处都能见到渥伦斯基。阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇看到了这一点，但无能为力。他所有努力让她参与公开讨论，但她却遇到了一道他无法穿透的障碍，这种障碍由一种有趣的困惑组成。表面上一切都一样，但他们的内在关系却完全改变了。阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇，一位政界的大人物，对此感到无能为力。他就像一头低着头的牛，顺从地等待着他感觉到的那一击。每当他开始思考这个问题时，他就觉得自己必须再试一次，通过仁慈、温柔和说服，仍有希望拯救她，让她恢复正常，每天他都准备好与她交谈。她。但每次他开始和她说话时，他都感到邪恶和欺骗的灵已经占据了她，也占据了他，而且他对她说话的语气与他本来要说话的语气完全不同。 。他不由自主地用他惯常的语气对她说话，语气是嘲笑任何应该说他所说的话的人。以那种语气，根本不可能对她说出需要说的话。

Chapter 11
第11章

That which for Vronsky had been almost a whole year the one absorbing desire of his life, replacing all his old desires; that which for Anna had been an impossible, terrible, and even for that reason more entrancing dream of bliss, that desire had been fulfilled. He stood before her, pale, his lower jaw quivering, and besought her to be calm, not knowing how or why.
对渥伦斯基来说，这几乎是他一生中的一个令人着迷的愿望，取代了他所有旧的愿望。对安娜来说，这是一个不可能的、可怕的、甚至因此更令人着迷的幸福梦想，但这个愿望已经实现了。他站在她面前，脸色苍白，下颌颤抖，恳求她保持冷静，但不知道如何或为什么。

‘Anna! Anna!’ he said with a choking voice, ‘Anna, for pity’s sake!...’
‘安娜！安娜！”他用哽咽的声音说道，“安娜，看在怜悯的份上！……”

But the louder he spoke, the lower she dropped her once proud and gay, now shame-stricken head, and she bowed down and sank from the sofa where she was sitting, down on the floor, at his feet; she would have fallen on the carpet if he had not held her.
但他说得越大声，她就越低下曾经骄傲、快乐、现在却羞愧难当的头，她弯下腰，从沙发上坐了下来，跌倒在他脚边的地板上；如果他没有扶住她，她就会摔倒在地毯上。

‘My God! Forgive me!’ she said, sobbing, pressing his hands to her bosom.
'我的上帝！原谅我！”她抽泣着说，把他的双手按在她的怀里。

She felt so sinful, so guilty, that nothing was left her but to humiliate herself and beg forgiveness; and as now there was no one in her life but him, to him she addressed her prayer for forgiveness. Looking at him, she had a physical sense of her humiliation, and she could say nothing more. He felt what a murderer must feel, when he sees the body he has robbed of life. That body, robbed by him of life, was their love, the first stage of their love. There was something awful and revolting in the memory of what had been bought at this fearful price of shame. Shame at their spiritual nakedness crushed her and infected him. But in spite of all the murderer’s horror before the body of his victim, he must hack it to pieces, hide the body, must use what he has gained by his murder.
她感到自己罪孽深重，罪孽深重，除了羞辱自己、乞求宽恕之外，她别无选择。现在，除了他，她的生活中再也没有人了，她向他祈祷，请求宽恕。看着他，她有一种身体上的屈辱感，她什么也说不出来。当他看到被他夺去生命的尸体时，他感受到了一个杀人犯所必须感受到的感觉。那具被他夺去生命的身体，就是他们的爱情，是他们爱情的第一阶段。回忆起以如此可怕的耻辱代价换来的东西，有一种可怕而令人反感的感觉。对他们精神上的赤裸的羞耻感压垮了她，也感染了他。但尽管凶手在受害者的尸体面前感到恐惧，但他必须将其砍成碎片，隐藏尸体，必须使用他通过谋杀获得的东西。

And with fury, as it were with passion, the murderer falls on the body, and drags it and hacks at it; so he covered her face and shoulders with kisses. She held his hand, and did not stir. ‘Yes, these kisses—that is what has been bought by this shame. Yes, and one hand, which will always be mine—the hand of my accomplice.’ She lifted up that hand and kissed it. He sank on his knees and tried to see her face; but she hid it, and said nothing. At last, as though making an effort over herself, she got up and pushed him away. Her face was still as beautiful, but it was only the more pitiful for that.
凶手带着愤怒，仿佛带着激情，扑倒在尸体上，拖着它，猛砍它。于是他亲吻了她的脸和肩膀。她握着他的手，没有动。 “是的，这些吻——这就是羞耻所换来的。”是的，还有一只手，它永远是我的——我同谋的手。”她举起那只手并吻了它。他跪下，试图看清她的脸，但她的脸却不见了。但她隐瞒了，什么也没说。最后，她像是在努力克制自己，站起来把他推开了。她的容颜依旧美丽，但也因此显得更加可怜。

‘All is over,’ she said; ‘I have nothing but you. Remember that.’
“一切都结束了，”她说。 ‘除了你，我一无所有。记住这一点。

‘I can never forget what is my whole life. For one instant of this happiness...’
“我永远无法忘记我的一生。为了这一刻的幸福……”

‘Happiness!’ she said with horror and loathing and her horror unconsciously infected him. ‘For pity’s sake, not a word, not a word more.’
“幸福！”她带着恐惧和厌恶说道，她的恐惧不自觉地感染了他。 “看在怜悯的份上，一言不发，一言不发。”

She rose quickly and moved away from him.
她迅速站起身来，从他身边走开。

‘Not a word more,’ she repeated, and with a look of chill despair, incomprehensible to him, she parted from him. She felt that at that moment she could not put into words the sense of shame, of rapture, and of horror at this stepping into a new life, and she did not want to speak of it, to vulgarize this feeling by inappropriate words. But later too, and the next day and the third day, she still found no words in which she could express the complexity of her feelings; indeed, she could not even find thoughts in which she could clearly think out all that was in her soul.
“别再说了。”她重复道，然后带着他无法理解的冰冷绝望的神情，与他分开了。她觉得那一刻她无法用语言来形容踏入新生活的羞耻感、狂喜感和恐惧感，她不想说出来，不想用不恰当的言语来庸俗化这种感觉。但后来，第二天、第三天，她仍然找不到言语来表达她复杂的心情；确实，她甚至找不到能够清晰地思考出她灵魂中的一切的想法。

She said to herself: ‘No, just now I can’t think of it, later on, when I am calmer.’ But this calm for thought never came; every time the thought rose of what she had done and what would happen to her, and what she ought to do, a horror came over her and she drove those thoughts away.
她对自己说：“不，现在我想不起来，等我平静了再想。”但这种平静的思想从未到来过；每当想到她做了什么、将会发生什么、以及她应该做什么时，她就会感到一阵恐惧，然后她就把这些想法赶走。

‘Later, later,’ she said—‘when I am calmer.’
“等会儿，等会儿，”她说——“等我平静下来的时候。”

But in dreams, when she had no control over her thoughts, her position presented itself to her in all its hideous nakedness. One dream haunted her almost every night. She dreamed that both were her husbands at once, that both were lavishing caresses on her. Alexey Alexandrovitch was weeping, kissing her hands, and saying, ‘How happy we are now!’ And Alexey Vronsky was there too, and he too was her husband. And she was marveling that it had once seemed impossible to her, was explaining to them, laughing, that this was ever so much simpler, and that now both of them were happy and contented. But this dream weighed on her like a nightmare, and she awoke from it in terror.
但在梦中，当她无法控制自己的思想时，她的处境就赤裸裸地呈现在她面前。几乎每天晚上都有一个梦困扰着她。她梦见两人同时成为她的丈夫，两人都在对她倾注爱抚。阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇一边哭泣，一边亲吻她的手，说道：“我们现在多么幸福啊！”阿列克谢·渥伦斯基也在场，他也是她的丈夫。她惊奇地发现这曾经对她来说似乎是不可能的，现在笑着向他们解释，这变得如此简单，现在他们俩都很快乐和满足。但这个梦却像一场噩梦一样压在她的心头，她惊恐地从梦中惊醒。

Chapter 12
第12章

In the early days after his return from Moscow, whenever Levin shuddered and grew red, remembering the disgrace of his rejection, he said to himself: ‘This was just how I used to shudder and blush, thinking myself utterly lost, when I was plucked in physics and did not get my remove; and how I thought myself utterly ruined after I had mismanaged that affair of my sister’s that was entrusted to me. And yet, now that years have passed, I recall it and wonder that it could distress me so much. It will be the same thing too with this trouble. Time will go by and I shall not mind about this either.’
从莫斯科回来后的最初几天，每当列文想起被拒绝的耻辱，浑身发抖、脸红时，他就对自己说：“这就是我以前被拔掉时的颤抖和脸红，以为自己彻底迷失了。”物理方面并没有得到我的除名；当我把姐姐托付给我的事情处理不当后，我觉得自己彻底毁了。然而，现在很多年过去了，我回想起这件事，想知道它会让我如此痛苦。这次麻烦也是同样的事情。时间会过去，我也不会介意这个。

But three months had passed and he had not left off minding about it; and it was as painful for him to think of it as it had been those first days. He could not be at peace because after dreaming so long of family life, and feeling himself so ripe for it, he was still not married, and was further than ever from marriage. He was painfully conscious himself, as were all about him, that at his years it is not well for man to be alone. He remembered how before starting for Moscow he had once said to his cowman Nikolay, a simple-hearted peasant, whom he liked talking to: ‘Well, Nikolay! I mean to get married,’ and how Nikolay had promptly answered, as of a matter on which there could be no possible doubt: ‘And high time too, Konstantin Demitrievitch.’ But marriage had now become further off than ever. The place was taken, and whenever he tried to imagine any of the girls he knew in that place, he felt that it was utterly impossible. Moreover, the recollection of the rejection and the part he had played in the affair tortured him with shame. However often he told himself that he was in no wise to blame in it, that recollection, like other humiliating reminiscences of a similar kind, made him twinge and blush. There had been in his past, as in every man’s, actions, recognized by him as bad, for which his conscience ought to have tormented him; but the memory of these evil actions was far from causing him so much suffering as those trivial but humiliating reminiscences. These wounds never healed. And with these memories was now ranged his rejection and the pitiful position in which he must have appeared to others that evening. But time and work did their part. Bitter memories were more and more covered up by the incidents—paltry in his eyes, but really important—of his country life. Every week he thought less often of Kitty. He was impatiently looking forward to the news that she was married, or just going to be married, hoping that such news would, like having a tooth out, completely cure him.
但三个月过去了，他仍然没有忘记这件事。一想到这件事，他就和刚开始的那些日子一样痛苦。他无法平静，因为在梦想了这么久的家庭生活之后，并且感觉自己已经成熟了，他仍然没有结婚，而且距离婚姻比以往任何时候都更远。他自己痛苦地意识到，就像他周围的人一样，在他这个年纪，一个人独处并不好。他记得在动身去莫斯科之前，他曾经对他的牛郎尼古拉（一个心地单纯的农民，他喜欢和他说话）说：“好吧，尼古拉！我的意思是结婚，”尼古拉立即回答道，这是毫无疑问的：“现在也是时候了，康斯坦丁·德米特里耶维奇。”但婚姻现在变得比以往任何时候都更加遥远。这个地方被占据了，每当他试图想象那个地方他认识的任何女孩时，他都觉得这是完全不可能的。此外，回想起被拒绝的事以及他在这件事中所扮演的角色，他感到羞愧折磨着他。无论他多么频繁地告诉自己，这件事不应该怪罪自己，但那段回忆，就像其他类似的羞辱回忆一样，让他感到刺痛和脸红。他的过去，就像每个人的过去一样，曾有过一些被他认为是不好的行为，他的良心应该为此受到折磨。但这些恶行的记忆远没有给他带来那么多的痛苦，而是那些微不足道但令人羞辱的回忆。这些伤口从未愈合。现在，这些记忆中充斥着他的拒绝和那天晚上他在别人面前的可怜处境。但时间和工作发挥了作用。 痛苦的记忆越来越多地被乡村生活中发生的那些在他看来微不足道，但却非常重要的事件所掩盖。每周他对基蒂的思念都越来越少。他迫不及待地等待着她结婚或者即将结婚的消息，希望这样的消息能像拔牙一样彻底治愈他的病。

Meanwhile spring came on, beautiful and kindly, without the delays and treacheries of spring,—one of those rare springs in which plants, beasts, and man rejoice alike. This lovely spring roused Levin still more, and strengthened him in his resolution of renouncing all his past and building up his lonely life firmly and independently. Though many of the plans with which he had returned to the country had not been carried out, still his most important resolution—that of purity—had been kept by him. He was free from that shame, which had usually harassed him after a fall; and he could look everyone straight in the face. In February he had received a letter from Marya Nikolaevna telling him that his brother Nikolay’s health was getting worse, but that he would not take advice, and in consequence of this letter Levin went to Moscow to his brother’s and succeeded in persuading him to see a doctor and to go to a watering-place abroad. He succeeded so well in persuading his brother, and in lending him money for the journey without irritating him, that he was satisfied with himself in that matter. In addition to his farming, which called for special attention in spring, and in addition to reading, Levin had begun that winter a work on agriculture, the plan of which turned on taking into account the character of the laborer on the land as one of the unalterable data of the question, like the climate and the soil, and consequently deducing all the principles of scientific culture, not simply from the data of soil and climate, but from the data of soil, climate, and a certain unalterable character of the laborer. Thus, in spite of his solitude, or in consequence of his solitude, his life was exceedingly full. Only rarely he suffered from an unsatisfied desire to communicate his stray ideas to someone besides Agafea Mihalovna. With her indeed he not infrequently fell into discussion upon physics, the theory of agriculture, and especially philosophy; philosophy was Agafea Mihalovna’s favorite subject.
与此同时，春天来了，美丽而仁慈，没有春天的迟缓和背叛——这是植物、野兽和人类都欢欣鼓舞的罕见春天。这个可爱的春天更加唤醒了莱文，并坚定了他放弃一切过去、坚定而独立地建立孤独生活的决心。尽管他回国时的许多计划都没有实现，但他最重要的决心——纯洁的决心——仍然被他保留了下来。他摆脱了那种在跌倒后常常困扰他的羞耻感。他可以直视每个人的脸。二月，他收到了玛丽亚·尼古拉耶夫娜的一封信，告诉他，他弟弟尼古拉的健康状况越来越差，但他不会接受建议，因此，列文去了莫斯科，到了他哥哥那里，并成功说服他去看医生。去看医生并去国外的饮水处。他成功地说服了他的兄弟，并在没有激怒他的情况下借给了他路费，因此他对自己在这件事上感到满意。除了春季需要特别关注的农耕之外，除了阅读之外，莱文那年冬天还开始了一项农业工作，其计划开始考虑到土地上的劳动者作为农民之一的特征。问题的不可改变的数据，如气候和土壤，从而推导出科学文化的所有原则，不仅仅是从土壤和气候的数据，而是从土壤、气候和某些不可改变的特征的数据劳动者。因此，尽管他孤独，或者说正因为孤独，他的生活却异常充实。 只有极少数情况下，他才会有一种无法满足的愿望，即要将自己的零散想法传达给阿加菲娅·米哈伊洛芙娜以外的人。事实上，他经常与她讨论物理学、农业理论，尤其是哲学。哲学是阿加菲娅·米哈伊洛芙娜最喜欢的科目。

Spring was slow in unfolding. For the last few weeks it had been steadily fine frosty weather. In the daytime it thawed in the sun, but at night there were even seven degrees of frost. There was such a frozen surface on the snow that they drove the wagons anywhere off the roads. Easter came in the snow. Then all of a sudden, on Easter Monday, a warm wind sprang up, storm clouds swooped down, and for three days and three nights the warm, driving rain fell in streams. On Thursday the wind dropped, and a thick gray fog brooded over the land as though hiding the mysteries of the transformations that were being wrought in nature. Behind the fog there was the flowing of water, the cracking and floating of ice, the swift rush of turbid, foaming torrents; and on the following Monday, in the evening, the fog parted, the storm clouds split up into little curling crests of cloud, the sky cleared, and the real spring had come. In the morning the sun rose brilliant and quickly wore away the thin layer of ice that covered the water, and all the warm air was quivering with the steam that rose up from the quickened earth. The old grass looked greener, and the young grass thrust up its tiny blades; the buds of the guelder-rose and of the currant and the sticky birch-buds were swollen with sap, and an exploring bee was humming about the golden blossoms that studded the willow. Larks trilled unseen above the velvety green fields and the ice-covered stubble-land; peewits wailed over the low lands and marshes flooded by the pools; cranes and wild geese flew high across the sky uttering their spring calls. The cattle, bald in patches where the new hair had not grown yet, lowed in the pastures; the bowlegged lambs frisked round their bleating mothers. Nimble children ran about the drying paths, covered with the prints of bare feet. There was a merry chatter of peasant women over their linen at the pond, and the ring of axes in the yard, where the peasants were repairing ploughs and harrows. The real spring had come.
春天的脚步徐徐展开。过去几周，天气一直晴朗、寒冷。白天阳光下解冻，晚上甚至有七度霜。雪地结冰了，他们把马车开到远离道路的任何地方。复活节在雪中来临。突然，在复活节的星期一，一阵暖风吹来，乌云密布，三天三夜，大雨倾盆而下。星期四，风停了，浓浓的灰雾笼罩着大地，仿佛隐藏着大自然正在发生的变化的奥秘。雾气背后是水流的流动、冰块的破裂和漂浮、浑浊的泡沫急流的急流。接下来的星期一晚上，雾气散去，乌云分裂成卷曲的小云峰，天空晴朗，真正的春天来了。早晨，太阳升起，光芒四射，很快就把覆盖在水面上的薄薄的冰层磨掉了，所有温暖的空气都随着从加速的大地升起的蒸汽而颤动。老草看起来更绿了，嫩草伸出了细小的叶子；琼花、醋栗和黏糊糊的桦树花蕾都被汁液浸透了，一只探索的蜜蜂在柳树上缀满的金色花朵上嗡嗡作响。百灵鸟在柔软的绿色田野和冰雪覆盖的茬地上空鸣叫着，看不见。皮威特在被水池淹没的低地和沼泽上哀嚎。鹤和大雁高高地飞过天空，发出春天的叫声。牛群在牧场上哞哞地叫着，新毛还没有长出来，斑秃的地方都秃了。罗圈腿的小羊围着它们咩咩叫的妈妈跳来跳去。 敏捷的孩子们在干燥的小路上跑来跑去，身上沾满了光脚印。池塘边传来农妇们披着亚麻布的欢声笑语，院子里斧头环绕，农民们正在修理犁和耙。真正的春天来了。

Chapter 13
第13章

Levin put on his big boots, and, for the first time, a cloth jacket, instead of his fur cloak, and went out to look after his farm, stepping over streams of water that flashed in the sunshine and dazzled his eyes, and treading one minute on ice and the next into sticky mud.
莱文穿上他的大靴子，第一次穿上布夹克，而不是毛皮斗篷，出去照料他的农场，跨过在阳光下闪闪发光、耀眼的小溪，踩着一分钟在冰上，下一分钟就进入粘泥中。

Spring is the time of plans and projects. And, as he came out into the farmyard, Levin, like a tree in spring that knows not what form will be taken by the young shoots and twigs imprisoned in its swelling buds, hardly knew what undertakings he was going to begin upon now in the farm work that was so dear to him. But he felt that he was full of the most splendid plans and projects. First of all he went to the cattle. The cows had been let out into their paddock, and their smooth sides were already shining with their new, sleek, spring coats; they basked in the sunshine and lowed to go to the meadow. Levin gazed admiringly at the cows he knew so intimately to the minutest detail of their condition, and gave orders for them to be driven out into the meadow, and the calves to be let into the paddock. The herdsman ran gaily to get ready for the meadow. The cowherd girls, picking up their petticoats, ran splashing through the mud with bare legs, still white, not yet brown from the sun, waving brush wood in their hands, chasing the calves that frolicked in the mirth of spring.
春天是计划和项目的时期。当他走进农家院子时，莱文就像一棵春天的树，不知道被囚禁在膨胀的花蕾中的嫩芽和细枝将采取什么形式，几乎不知道他现在要在这片土地上开始什么事业。农活对他来说是如此珍贵。但他觉得自己充满了最辉煌的计划和项目。他首先去找牛。奶牛已经被放进围场，它们光滑的身体已经披上了新的、光滑的春季皮毛，闪闪发光。他们晒着太阳，低声向草地走去。莱文钦佩地注视着那些他对牛群状况了如指掌的奶牛，然后下令把它们赶到草地上，把小牛放进围场。牧民兴高采烈地跑去准备去草地。牧牛姑娘们拿起衬裙，光着腿，还没有被太阳晒黑，在泥泞中奔跑，溅起水花，手里挥舞着柴草，追逐着春天嬉戏的牛犊。

After admiring the young ones of that year, who were particularly fine—the early calves were the size of a peasant’s cow, and Pava’s daughter, at three months old, was as big as a yearling— Levin gave orders for a trough to be brought out and for them to be fed in the paddock. But it appeared that as the paddock had not been used during the winter, the hurdles made in the autumn for it were broken. He sent for the carpenter, who, according to his orders, ought to have been at work at the thrashing machine. But it appeared that the carpenter was repairing the harrows, which ought to have been repaired before Lent. This was very annoying to Levin. It was annoying to come upon that everlasting slovenliness in the farm work against which he had been striving with all his might for so many years. The hurdles, as he ascertained, being not wanted in winter, had been carried to the cart-horses’ stable; and there broken, as they were of light construction, only meant for feeding calves. Moreover, it was apparent also that the harrows and all the agricultural implements, which he had directed to be looked over and repaired in the winter, for which very purpose he had hired three carpenters, had not been put into repair, and the harrows were being repaired when they ought to have been harrowing the field. Levin sent for his bailiff, but immediately went off himself to look for him. The bailiff, beaming all over, like everyone that day, in a sheepskin bordered with astrachan, came out of the barn, twisting a bit of straw in his hands.
欣赏了当年的小牛们，它们特别优秀——早期的小牛有农民的母牛那么大，而帕瓦三个月大的女儿就和一岁的小牛一样大——莱文下令搬来一个食槽。并让它们在围场里得到喂养。但看来，由于围场在冬天没有使用过，秋天为围场设置的障碍就被打破了。他派人去叫来木匠，按照他的命令，木匠应该正在打谷机上干活。但木匠似乎正在修理耙子，本来应该在四旬斋前修好的。这让莱文非常恼火。多年来他一直竭尽全力反对的农活总是如此马虎，这让他很恼火。据他确定，这些栏杆在冬天不需要，已经被搬到了马厩里。那里有破损，因为它们是轻型结构，只用于喂养小牛。此外，很明显，他指示在冬天检查和修理的耙子和所有农具也没有得到修理，为此他雇了三个木匠。当他们应该在田地里耕作时却被修复了。莱文派人把他的法警叫来，但他立即亲自去寻找他。法警满面笑容，像那天的每个人一样，穿着镶着阿斯特拉罕的羊皮，手里捻着一根稻草，从谷仓里走出来。

‘Why isn’t the carpenter at the thrashing machine?’
“为什么木匠不在打谷机旁？”

‘Oh, I meant to tell you yesterday, the harrows want repairing. Here it’s time they got to work in the fields.’
‘哦，我昨天就想告诉你，耙子需要修理。现在是他们到田里干活的时候了。”

‘But what were they doing in the winter, then?’
“那么冬天他们在做什么呢？”

‘But what did you want the carpenter for?’
“但是你要木匠做什么？”

‘Where are the hurdles for the calves’ paddock?’
“小牛围场的障碍在哪里？”

‘I ordered them to be got ready. What would you have with those peasants!’ said the bailiff, with a wave of his hand.
“我命令他们做好准备。 “你要那些农民怎么办！”法警摆摆手说道。

‘It’s not those peasants but this bailiff!’ said Levin, getting angry. ‘Why, what do I keep you for?’ he cried. But, bethinking himself that this would not help matters, he stopped short in the middle of a sentence, and merely sighed. ‘Well, what do you say? Can sowing begin?’ he asked, after a pause.
“不是那些农民，而是这个法警！”莱文生气地说。 “为什么，我留着你做什么？”他喊道。但想到这也于事无补，他话到一半就戛然而止，只是叹了口气。 ‘嗯，你说什么？可以开始播种了吗？”停顿了一下，他问道。

‘Behind Turkin tomorrow or the next day they might begin.’
“明天或后天，他们可能会在图尔金后面开始。”

‘And the clover?’
“那三叶草呢？”

‘I’ve sent Vassily and Mishka; they’re sowing. Only I don’t know if they’ll manage to get through; it’s so slushy.’
“我已经派了瓦西里和米什卡；他们正在播种。只是我不知道他们能否顺利通过；太泥泞了。

‘How many acres?’
“有多少英亩？”

‘About fifteen.’
“大约十五岁。”

‘Why not sow all?’ cried Levin.
“为什么不全部播种呢？”莱文喊道。

That they were only sowing the clover on fifteen acres, not on all the forty-five, was still more annoying to him. Clover, as he knew, both from books and from his own experience, never did well except when it was sown as early as possible, almost in the snow. And yet Levin could never get this done.
他们只在十五英亩土地上播种三叶草，而不是在全部四十五英亩土地上播种，这让他更恼火。据他所知，无论是从书本上还是从他自己的经验中，三叶草都长得不好，除非尽早播种，几乎是在雪地里播种。然而莱文永远无法完成这件事。

‘There’s no one to send. What would you have with such a set of peasants? Three haven’t turned up. And there’s Semyon...’
‘没有人可以派。如果有这样一群农民，你会怎么办？三个人还没出现。还有谢苗……”

‘Well, you should have taken some men from the thatching.’
“好吧，你应该从茅草顶上带走一些人。”

‘And so I have, as it is.’
“我也确实如此。”

‘Where are the peasants, then?’
“那么，农民在哪里呢？”

‘Five are making compote’ (which meant compost), ‘four are shifting the oats for fear of a touch of mildew, Konstantin Dmitrievitch.’
“五个正在制作蜜饯”（这意味着堆肥），“四个正在移动燕麦，因为担心发霉，康斯坦丁·德米特里耶维奇。”

Levin knew very well that ‘a touch of mildew’ meant that his English seed oats were already ruined. Again they had not done as he had ordered.
莱文很清楚，“一点霉味”就意味着他的英国燕麦籽已经毁了。他们再次没有按照他的命令去做。

‘Why, but I told you during Lent to put in pipes,’ he cried.
“为什么，但我在四旬斋期间告诉过你要装上管道，”他喊道。

‘Don’t put yourself out; we shall get it all done in time.’
‘不要让自己出局；我们会及时完成这一切。

Levin waved his hand angrily, went into the granary to glance at the oats, and then to the stable. The oats were not yet spoiled. But the peasants were carrying the oats in spades when they might simply let them slide down into the lower granary; and arranging for this to be done, and taking two workmen from there for sowing clover, Levin got over his vexation with the bailiff. Indeed, it was such a lovely day that one could not be angry.
莱文愤怒地摆摆手，走进粮仓看了一眼燕麦，然后又去了马厩。燕麦还没有变质。但农民们却用铲子搬运燕麦，而他们本可以让燕麦滑落到下层粮仓里。莱文安排好这件事，并从那里带了两名工人去播种三叶草，这才消除了对执达员的恼怒。确实，这是一个如此美好的日子，让人无法生气。

‘Ignat!’ he called to the coachman, who, with his sleeves tucked up, was washing the carriage wheels, ‘saddle me...’
“伊格纳​​特！”他对挽起袖子、正在清洗车轮的车夫喊道，“给我装鞍……”

‘Which, sir?’
“哪个，先生？”

‘Well, let it be Kolpik.’
“好吧，就叫科尔皮克吧。”

‘Yes, sir.’
'是的先生。'

While they were saddling his horse, Levin again called up the bailiff, who was hanging about in sight, to make it up with him, and began talking to him about the spring operations before them, and his plans for the farm.
当他们给他的马装鞍时，莱文再次叫来了在视线范围内徘徊的法警，与他和解，并开始与他谈论他们面前的春季行动以及他对农场的计划。

The wagons were to begin carting manure earlier, so as to get all done before the early mowing. And the ploughing of the further land to go on without a break so as to let it ripen lying fallow. And the mowing to be all done by hired labor, not on half-profits. The bailiff listened attentively, and obviously made an effort to approve of his employer’s projects. But still he had that look Levin knew so well that always irritated him, a look of hopelessness and despondency. That look said: ‘That’s all very well, but as God wills.’
马车要提前开始运粪，以便在早割之前完成所有工作。继续不间断地犁耕更远的土地，让休耕的土地成熟。割草工作全部由雇工完成，而不是靠半利。法警认真地听着，显然是在努力批准雇主的项目。但他的表情仍然是莱文所熟悉的，总是让他恼火，一种绝望和沮丧的表情。那表情仿佛在说：“一切都很好，但愿上帝所愿。”

Nothing mortified Levin so much as that tone. But it was the tone common to all the bailiffs he had ever had. They had all taken up that attitude to his plans, and so now he was not angered by it, but mortified, and felt all the more roused to struggle against this, as it seemed, elemental force continually ranged against him, for which he could find no other expression than ‘as God wills.’
没有什么比这语气更让莱文感到羞愧的了。但这是他曾经遇到过的所有法警的共同语气。他们都对他的计划采取了这种态度，所以现在他并没有因此而愤怒，而是感到羞愧，并感到更加有动力去对抗这一点，似乎元素力量不断地对他不利，为此他可以除了“如上帝所愿”之外，找不到其他表达方式。

‘If we can manage it, Konstantin Dmitrievitch,’ said the bailiff.
“如果我们能做到的话，康斯坦丁·德米特里耶维奇，”法警说道。

‘Why ever shouldn’t you manage it?’
“为什么你不应该管理它呢？”

‘We positively must have another fifteen laborers. And they don’t turn up. There were some here today asking seventy roubles for the summer.’
“我们确实必须再有十五名工人。但他们没有出现。今天这里有些人要七十卢布的夏天费用。

Levin was silent. Again he was brought face to face with that opposing force. He knew that however much they tried, they could not hire more than forty—thirty-seven perhaps or thirty-eight— laborers for a reasonable sum. Some forty had been taken on, and there were no more. But still he could not help struggling against it.
莱文沉默了。他再次与敌对势力面对面。他知道，无论他们如何努力，他们都无法以合理的金额雇用超过四十名（也许是三十七名或三十八名）工人。大约有四十人被带走，然后就没有更多了。但他还是忍不住与之抗争。

‘Send to Sury, to Tchefirovka; if they don’t come we must look for them.’
‘发送到苏里，到切菲罗夫卡；如果他们不来，我们就必须去找他们。

‘Oh, I’ll send, to be sure,’ said Vassily Fedorovitch despondently. ‘But there are the horses, too, they’re not good for much.’
“哦，当然，我会派人去的，”瓦西里·费奥多罗维奇沮丧地说。 “但也有马，它们没什么用处。”

‘We’ll get some more. I know, of course,’ Levin added laughing, ‘you always want to do with as little and as poor quality as possible; but this year I’m not going to let you have things your own way. I’ll see to everything myself.’
“我们会得到更多。”我当然知道，”莱文笑着补充道，“你总是想用尽可能少的质量做事；但今年我不会让你按自己的方式行事。我会亲自处理一切。

‘Why, I don’t think you take much rest as it is. It cheers us up to work under the master’s eye...’
‘哎呀，我觉得你没有好好休息。它让我们在主人的眼皮子底下工作感到高兴……”

‘So they’re sowing clover behind the Birch Dale? I’ll go and have a look at them,’ he said, getting on to the little bay cob, Kolpik, who was led up by the coachman.
“那么他们是在白桦谷后面播种三叶草吗？”我要去看看它们。”他一边说，一边跨上车夫牵着的小海湾玉米棒子科尔皮克。

‘You can’t get across the streams, Konstantin Dmitrievitch,’ the coachman shouted.
“康斯坦丁·德米特里耶维奇，你过不了河。”车夫喊道。

‘All right, I’ll go by the forest.’
“好吧，我就去森林那边。”

And Levin rode through the slush of the farmyard to the gate and out into the open country, his good little horse, after his long inactivity, stepping out gallantly, snorting over the pools, and asking, as it were, for guidance. If Levin had felt happy before in the cattle pens and farmyard, he felt happier yet in the open country. Swaying rhythmically with the ambling paces of his good little cob, drinking in the warm yet fresh scent of the snow and the air, as he rode through his forest over the crumbling, wasted snow, still left in parts, and covered with dissolving tracks, he rejoiced over every tree, with the moss reviving on its bark and the buds swelling on its shoots. When he came out of the forest, in the immense plain before him, his grass fields stretched in an unbroken carpet of green, without one bare place or swamp, only spotted here and there in the hollows with patches of melting snow. He was not put out of temper even by the sight of the peasants’ horses and colts trampling down his young grass (he told a peasant he met to drive them out), nor by the sarcastic and stupid reply of the peasant Ipat, whom he met on the way, and asked, ‘Well, Ipat, shall we soon be sowing?’ ‘We must get the ploughing done first, Konstantin Dmitrievitch,’ answered Ipat. The further he rode, the happier he became, and plans for the land rose to his mind each better than the last; to plant all his fields with hedges along the southern borders, so that the snow should not lie under them; to divide them up into six fields of arable and three of pasture and hay; to build a cattle yard at the further end of the estate, and to dig a pond and to construct movable pens for the cattle as a means of manuring the land. And then eight hundred acres of wheat, three hundred of potatoes, and four hundred of clover, and not one acre exhausted.
莱文骑着马穿过农家的泥泞地，来到大门前，来到了空旷的乡村，他的好小马，在长时间的不活动之后，英勇地走出去，在水池上喷着鼻息，仿佛在寻求指导。如果说莱文以前在牛栏和农场里感到快乐的话，那么他在空旷的乡村感到更快乐。当他骑着马穿过森林，踏着破碎的、废弃的雪地上时，随着他那只善良的小天鹅缓慢的步伐有节奏地摇摆，呼吸着雪和空气中温暖而新鲜的气味，他为每棵树感到高兴，树皮上的苔藓重新生机，枝条上的花蕾绽放。当他走出森林时，眼前是一望无际的平原，草地上连绵不断地铺着绿色的地毯，没有一处光秃秃的地方，也没有一片沼泽，只有零星的洼地里零星地散布着融化的积雪。即使看到农民的马匹和小马驹践踏他的青草（他告诉他遇到的一个农民要把它们赶走），他也没有因为农民伊帕特讽刺而愚蠢的回答而生气，他是他的农民伊帕特。路上遇见了，问：“好吧，伊帕特，我们很快就可以播种了吗？”“我们必须先犁地，康斯坦丁·德米特里耶维奇，”伊帕特回答道。他骑得越远，就越高兴，对这片土地的计划一个比一个更好地浮现在他的脑海里。沿着南部边界在他所有的田地里种植树篱，这样雪就不会被埋在树篱下；将他们分成六块耕地，三块牧草和干草；在庄园的另一端建造一个牛场，挖一个池塘并为牛建造可移动的围栏，作为土地施肥的一种手段。 还有八百英亩的小麦、三百英亩的土豆、四百英亩的三叶草，没有一英亩被耗尽。

Absorbed in such dreams, carefully keeping his horse by the hedges, so as not to trample his young crops, he rode up to the laborers who had been sent to sow clover. A cart with the seed in it was standing, not at the edge, but in the middle of the crop, and the winter corn had been torn up by the wheels and trampled by the horse. Both the laborers were sitting in the hedge, probably smoking a pipe together. The earth in the cart, with which the seed was mixed, was not crushed to powder, but crusted together or adhering in clods. Seeing the master, the laborer, Vassily, went towards the cart, while Mishka set to work sowing. This was not as it should be, but with the laborers Levin seldom lost his temper. When Vassily came up, Levin told him to lead the horse to the hedge.
他全神贯注于这样的梦想，小心翼翼地把马停在树篱旁，以免践踏他的幼苗，他骑着马向那些被派去播种三叶草的工人走去。一辆装着种子的车停在庄稼的中间，不是在边缘，而是在庄稼的中间，冬玉米被车轮撕碎，被马践踏。两个工人都坐在树篱里，可能正在一起抽烟斗。车里与种子混合的泥土并没有被压成粉末，而是结成硬壳或粘成土块。看到主人后，劳动者瓦西里走向马车，而米什卡则开始播种。这本不该是这样，但列文对工人却很少发脾气。当瓦西里过来时，莱文让他把马牵到树篱边。

‘It’s all right, sir, it’ll spring up again,’ responded Vassily.
“没关系，先生，它会再次出现的，”瓦西里回答道。

‘Please don’t argue,’ said Levin, ‘but do as you’re told.’
“请不要争论，”莱文说，“按照吩咐去做吧。”

‘Yes, sir,’ answered Vassily, and he took the horse’s head. ‘What a sowing, Konstantin Dmitrievitch,’ he said, hesitating; ‘first rate. Only it’s a work to get about! You drag a ton of earth on your shoes.’
“是的，先生。”瓦西里回答道，然后他拿起了马头。 “康斯坦丁·德米特里耶维奇，播种得真好。”他犹豫地说。 ‘一流。只是这是一项需要去做的工作！你的鞋子上拖着一吨土。”

‘Why is it you have earth that’s not sifted?’ said Levin.
“为什么你们的土没有经过筛分？”莱文说。

‘Well, we crumble it up,’ answered Vassily, taking up some seed and rolling the earth in his palms.
“好吧，我们把它弄碎了，”瓦西里回答道，拿起一些种子，在手掌中滚动泥土。

Vassily was not to blame for their having filled up his cart with unsifted earth, but still it was annoying.
瓦西里并没有因为他们在他的车里装满未经筛选的泥土而受到责备，但这仍然很烦人。

Levin had more than once already tried a way he knew for stifling his anger, and turning all that seemed dark right again, and he tried that way now. He watched how Mishka strode along, swinging the huge clods of earth that clung to each foot; and getting off his horse, he took the sieve from Vassily and started sowing himself.
莱文已经不止一次地尝试过一种他知道的方法来抑制他的愤怒，并让一切看起来黑暗的事情再次变得正确，他现在也尝试了这种方法。他看着米什卡大步走着，摆动着每只脚上粘着的大土块。他下了马，从瓦西里手中接过筛子，开始自己播种。

‘Where did you stop?’
“你在哪儿停的？”

Vassily pointed to the mark with his foot, and Levin went forward as best he could, scattering the seed on the land. Walking was as difficult as on a bog, and by the time Levin had ended the row he was in a great heat, and he stopped and gave up the sieve to Vassily.
瓦西里用脚指着那个标记，莱文尽力向前，将种子撒在土地上。走路就像在沼泽上一样困难，当莱文结束这一行时，他已经非常热了，他停下来，把筛子交给了瓦西里。

‘Well, master, when summer’s here, mind you don’t scold me for these rows,’ said Vassily.
“好吧，主人，夏天来了，请你不要因为这些争吵而责骂我，”瓦西里说。

‘Eh?’ said Levin cheerily, already feeling the effect of his method.
“嗯？”莱文高兴地说，他已经感受到了他的方法的效果。

‘Why, you’ll see in the summer time. It’ll look different. Look you where I sowed last spring. How I did work at it! I do my best, Konstantin Dmitrievitch, d’ye see, as I would for my own father. I don’t like bad work myself, nor would I let another man do it. What’s good for the master’s good for us too. To look out yonder now,’ said Vassily, pointing, ‘it does one’s heart good.’
‘为什么，到了夏天你就会看到了。它看起来会有所不同。看看我去年春天播种的地方。我是怎么做的！我竭尽全力，康斯坦丁·德米特里耶维奇，你瞧，就像我为我自己的父亲所做的那样。我自己不喜欢糟糕的工作，也不会让别人做。对主人有好处，对我们也有好处。现在看看那边，”瓦西里指着说，“这对一个人的心脏有好处。”

‘It’s a lovely spring, Vassily.’
“这是一个可爱的春天，瓦西里。”

‘Why, it’s a spring such as the old men don’t remember the like of. I was up home; an old man up there has sown wheat too, about an acre of it. He was saying you wouldn’t know it from rye.’
‘哎呀，这是一个老人不记得的春天。我已经回家了；上面有个老人也种了麦子，大约有一亩。他说你不会从黑麦中知道这一点。

‘Have you been sowing wheat long?’
“你播种小麦已经很久了吗？”

‘Why, sir, it was you taught us the year before last. You gave me two measures. We sold about eight bushels and sowed a rood.’
‘哎呀，先生，是你前年教我们的。你给了我两个措施。我们卖了大约八蒲式耳并播种了一些。”

‘Well, mind you crumble up the clods,’ said Levin, going towards his horse, ‘and keep an eye on Mishka. And if there’s a good crop you shall have half a rouble for every acre.’
“好吧，注意把土块踩碎，”列文一边说，一边朝他的马走去，“并留意米什卡。”如果收成好的话，每英亩你可以得到半卢布。”

‘Humbly thankful. We are very well content, sir, as it is.’
’虚心谢意。先生，我们已经很满足了。”

Levin got on his horse and rode towards the field where was last year’s clover, and the one which was ploughed ready for the spring corn.
列文骑上马，朝那片田地走去，那里种着去年的三叶草，现在已经犁过，准备播种春天的玉米了。

The crop of clover coming up in the stubble was magnificent. It had survived everything, and stood up vividly green through the broken stalks of last year’s wheat. The horse sank in up to the pasterns, and he drew each hoof with a sucking sound out of the half-thawed ground. Over the ploughland riding was utterly impossible; the horse could only keep a foothold where there was ice, and in the thawing furrows he sank deep in at each step. The ploughland was in splendid condition; in a couple of days it would be fit for harrowing and sowing. Everything was capital, everything was cheering. Levin rode back across the streams, hoping the water would have gone down. And he did in fact get across, and startled two ducks. ‘There must be snipe too,’ he thought, and just as he reached the turning homewards he met the forest keeper, who confirmed his theory about the snipe.
残茬里长出来的三叶草，非常茂盛。它经历了一切，在去年麦秆折断的情况下依然绿油油地矗立着。马儿陷进了骹骨，他把每只蹄子从半解冻的土地上拔出来，发出吸吮的声音。在耕地上骑马是完全不可能的。马只能在有冰的地方立足，每一步都陷在融化的犁沟里。耕地状况极佳。几天后，它就可以进行耙地和播种了。一切都是资本，一切都是欢呼。莱文骑马穿过溪流返回，希望水位能够退去。事实上，他确实渡过了河，吓到了两只鸭子。 “一定还有鹬，”他想，当他到达回家的转弯处时，他遇到了森林管理员，后者证实了他关于鹬的理论。

Levin went home at a trot, so as to have time to eat his dinner and get his gun ready for the evening.
莱文小跑回家，以便有时间吃晚饭并准备晚上的枪。

Chapter 14
第14章

As he rode up to the house in the happiest frame of mind, Levin heard the bell ring at the side of the principal entrance of the house.
当他怀着最幸福的心情骑着马向房子走去时，莱文听到房子正门旁边的铃声响起。

‘Yes, that’s someone from the railway station,’ he thought, ‘just the time to be here from the Moscow train...Who could it be? What if it’s brother Nikolay? He did say: ‘Maybe I’ll go to the waters, or maybe I’ll come down to you.’’ He felt dismayed and vexed for the first minute, that his brother Nikolay’s presence should come to disturb his happy mood of spring. But he felt ashamed of the feeling, and at once he opened, as it were, the arms of his soul, and with a softened feeling of joy and expectation, now he hoped with all his heart that it was his brother. He pricked up his horse, and riding out from behind the acacias he saw a hired three-horse sledge from the railway station, and a gentleman in a fur coat. It was not his brother. ‘Oh, if it were only some nice person one could talk to a little!’ he thought.
“是的，那是火车站的人，”他想，“正好从莫斯科火车到这里……会是谁呢？”如果是尼古拉兄弟怎么办？他确实说过：“也许我会去水里，或者也许我会下来找你。”他第一分钟感到沮丧和烦恼，他的兄弟尼古拉的出现竟然扰乱了他春天的快乐心情。 。但他对这种感觉感到羞愧，立刻他仿佛打开了灵魂的怀抱，带着一种柔和的喜悦和期待的感觉，现在他全心全意地希望那是他的兄弟。他纵身一跃，从金合欢树后面骑马出来，看见一辆从火车站租来的三匹马拉的雪橇，还有一位穿着毛皮大衣的绅士。那不是他的兄弟。 “噢，要是有人能和一个好人聊聊就好了！”他想。

‘Ah,’ cried Levin joyfully, flinging up both his hands. ‘Here’s a delightful visitor! Ah, how glad I am to see you!’ he shouted, recognizing Stepan Arkadyevitch.
“啊，”列文高兴地喊道，举起双手。 ‘这是一位令人愉快的客人！啊，见到你我真高兴！”他认出了斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇，喊道。

‘I shall find out for certain whether she’s married, or when she’s going to be married,’ he thought. And on that delicious spring day he felt that the thought of her did not hurt him at all.
“我会确切地知道她是否结婚了，或者她什么时候结婚，”他想。在那个美好的春日里，他觉得想到她并没有伤害到他。

‘Well, you didn’t expect me, eh?’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch, getting out of the sledge, splashed with mud on the bridge of his nose, on his cheek, and on his eyebrows, but radiant with health and good spirits. ‘I’ve come to see you in the first place,’ he said, embracing and kissing him, ‘to have some stand-shooting second, and to sell the forest at Ergushovo third.’
“嗯，你没想到我会来，是吗？”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇从雪橇上下来，鼻梁上、脸颊上、眉毛上都溅满了泥巴，但他容光焕发，精神抖擞。 “我来见你，首先是为了看你，”他拥抱并亲吻了他说道，“其次是为了进行一些站立射击，第三是为了卖掉埃尔古绍沃的森林。”

‘Delightful! What a spring we’re having! How ever did you get along in a sledge?’
'愉快！我们过着多么美好的春天啊！你们在雪橇上相处得怎么样？

‘In a cart it would have been worse still, Konstantin Dmitrievitch,’ answered the driver, who knew him.
“康斯坦丁·德米特里耶维奇，坐马车的话情况会更糟。”车夫回答道，他认识他。

‘Well, I’m very, very glad to see you,’ said Levin, with a genuine smile of childlike delight.
“嗯，见到你我非常非常高兴，”莱文带着孩子般喜悦的真诚微笑说道。

Levin led his friend to the room set apart for visitors, where Stepan Arkadyevitch’s things were carried also—a bag, a gun in a case, a satchel for cigars. Leaving him there to wash and change his clothes, Levin went off to the counting house to speak about the ploughing and clover. Agafea Mihalovna, always very anxious for the credit of the house, met him in the hall with inquiries about dinner.
列文领着他的朋友来到专门为访客准备的房间，里面还放着斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇的东西——一个袋子、盒子里的一把枪、一个装雪茄的挎包。列文留下他在那里洗澡换衣服，自己去账房谈论犁地和三叶草的事情。阿加菲娅·米哈伊洛芙娜总是对房子的信誉非常着急，她在大厅里与他会面，询问晚餐的事宜。

‘Do just as you like, only let it be as soon as possible,’ he said, and went to the bailiff.
“你想怎么做就怎么做，只要尽快就行，”他说完就去找法警。

When he came back, Stepan Arkadyevitch, washed and combed, came out of his room with a beaming smile, and they went upstairs together.
当他回来时，斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇洗漱完毕，梳好头，满面笑容地走出房间，他们一起上楼。

‘Well, I am glad I managed to get away to you! Now I shall understand what the mysterious business is that you are always absorbed in here. No, really, I envy you. What a house, how nice it all is! So bright, so cheerful!’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch, forgetting that it was not always spring and fine weather like that day. ‘And your nurse is simply charming! A pretty maid in an apron might be even more agreeable, perhaps; but for your severe monastic style it does very well.’
‘好吧，我很高兴我能逃到你身边！现在我要明白你一直在这里专注的神秘事业是什么了。不，真的，我很羡慕你。多么好的房子啊，一切多么美好啊！多么明亮，多么令人愉快！”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇说道，他忘记了今天并不总是像那天那样春天和好天气。 “你的护士简直太迷人了！”一个穿着围裙的漂亮女仆也许会更讨人喜欢。但对于你严肃的修道院风格来说，它做得很好。”

Stepan Arkadyevitch told him many interesting pieces of news; especially interesting to Levin was the news that his brother, Sergey Ivanovitch, was intending to pay him a visit in the summer.
斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇告诉了他许多有趣的消息；莱文特别感兴趣的是他的兄弟谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇打算在夏天拜访他的消息。

Not one word did Stepan Arkadyevitch say in reference to Kitty and the Shtcherbatskys; he merely gave him greetings from his wife. Levin was grateful to him for his delicacy and was very glad of his visitor. As always happened with him during his solitude, a mass of ideas and feelings had been accumulating within him, which he could not communicate to those about him. And now he poured out upon Stepan Arkadyevitch his poetic joy in the spring, and his failures and plans for the land, and his thoughts and criticisms on the books he had been reading, and the idea of his own book, the basis of which really was, though he was unaware of it himself, a criticism of all the old books on agriculture. Stepan Arkadyevitch, always charming, understanding everything at the slightest reference, was particularly charming on this visit, and Levin noticed in him a special tenderness, as it were, and a new tone of respect that flattered him.
斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇没有提及基蒂和谢尔巴茨基一家。他只是向他转达了妻子的问候。莱文对他的细心表示感谢，并对他的来访感到非常高兴。正如他在独处期间经常发生的那样，大量的想法和感受在他内心积累，而他无法与周围的人交流。现在，他向斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇倾诉了他在春天的诗意欢乐，他的失败和对这片土地的计划，他对他读过的书的想法和批评，以及他自己的书的想法，这本书的基础实际上是尽管他自己没有意识到，这是对所有关于农业的旧书的批评。斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇总是很有魅力，对任何事情都了如指掌，这次来访特别有魅力，列文注意到他身上有一种特殊的温柔，可以说是一种特别的温柔，还有一种新的尊重语气，这使他很受宠若惊。

The efforts of Agafea Mihalovna and the cook, that the dinner should be particularly good, only ended in the two famished friends attacking the preliminary course, eating a great deal of bread and butter, salt goose and salted mushrooms, and in Levin’s finally ordering the soup to be served without the accompaniment of little pies, with which the cook had particularly meant to impress their visitor. But though Stepan Arkadyevitch was accustomed to very different dinners, he thought everything excellent: the herb brandy, and the bread, and the butter, and above all the salt goose and the mushrooms, and the nettle soup, and the chicken in white sauce, and the white Crimean wine— everything was superb and delicious.
阿加菲娅·米哈伊洛芙娜和厨师费尽心力，想让晚餐特别好吃，结果两个饥饿的朋友开始攻击前菜，吃了大量的面包和黄油、咸鹅和咸蘑菇，最后莱文点了菜。汤不配小馅饼，厨师特意用小馅饼来给客人留下深刻的印象。尽管斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇习惯了截然不同的晚餐，但他认为一切都很棒：香草白兰地，面包，黄油，最重要的是盐鹅和蘑菇，荨麻汤，还有白汁鸡肉，还有克里米亚白葡萄酒——一切都非常美味。

‘Splendid, splendid!’ he said, lighting a fat cigar after the roast. ‘I feel as if, coming to you, I had landed on a peaceful shore after the noise and jolting of a steamer. And so you maintain that the laborer himself is an element to be studied and to regulate the choice of methods in agriculture. Of course, I’m an ignorant outsider; but I should fancy theory and its application will have its influence on the laborer too.’
“太棒了，太棒了！”烤完后，他点燃了一支粗雪茄。 “我觉得，来到你身边，我仿佛在经历了轮船的喧嚣和颠簸之后，降落在了一片宁静的海岸上。因此，您认为劳动者本身是一个需要研究和调节农业方法选择的因素。当然，我是一个无知的外人；但我认为理论及其应用也会对劳动者产生影响。

‘Yes, but wait a bit. I’m not talking of political economy, I’m talking of the science of agriculture. It ought to be like the natural sciences, and to observe given phenomena and the laborer in his economic, ethnographical...’
‘是的，但是请稍等一下。我不是在谈论政治经济学，我是在谈论农业科学。它应该像自然科学一样，观察特定的现象和劳动者的经济、民族志……”

At that instant Agafea Mihalovna came in with jam.
就在这时，阿加菲娅·米哈伊洛芙娜端着果酱进来了。

‘Oh, Agafea Mihalovna,’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch, kissing the tips of his plump fingers, ‘what salt goose, what herb brandy!...What do you think, isn’t it time to start, Kostya?’ he added.
“哦，阿加菲娅·米哈伊洛夫娜，”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇一边说，一边亲吻他胖乎乎的手指尖，“什么盐鹅，什么香草白兰地！……你觉得怎么样，是不是该开始了，克斯特亚？”他补充道。

Levin looked out of the window at the sun sinking behind the bare tree-tops of the forest.
莱文望向窗外，看着太阳落在森林光秃秃的树顶后面。

‘Yes, it’s time,’ he said. ‘Kouzma, get ready the trap,’ and he ran downstairs.
“是的，是时候了，”他说。 “库兹马，准备好陷阱，”他跑下楼。

Stepan Arkadyevitch, going down, carefully took the canvas cover off his varnished gun case with his own hands, and opening it, began to get ready his expensive new-fashioned gun. Kouzma, who already scented a big tip, never left Stepan Arkadyevitch’s side, and put on him both his stockings and boots, a task which Stepan Arkadyevitch readily left him.
斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇下楼，小心翼翼地亲手把帆布盖从漆过的枪盒上取下来，打开它，开始准备他昂贵的新型枪。库兹马已经闻到了大笔的气味，他一直没有离开斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇的身边，并给他穿上袜子和靴子，斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇很乐意地把这项任务留给了他。

‘Kostya, give orders that if the merchant Ryabinin comes...I told him to come today, he’s to be brought in and to wait for me...’
“克斯特亚，下令，如果商人里亚宾宁来了……我叫他今天来，他就被带进来等我……”

‘Why, do you mean to say you’re selling the forest to Ryabinin?’
“为什么，你的意思是说你要把森林卖给里亚宾宁？”

‘Yes. Do you know him?’
'是的。你认识他吗？'

‘To be sure I do. I have had to do business with him, ‘positively and conclusively.’’
“我当然知道。”我必须“积极且果断地”与他做生意。”

Stepan Arkadyevitch laughed. ‘Positively and conclusively’ were the merchant’s favorite words.
斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇笑了。 “积极、明确”是这位商人最喜欢说的一句话。

‘Yes, it’s wonderfully funny the way he talks. She knows where her master’s going!’ he added, patting Laska, who hung about Levin, whining and licking his hands, his boots, and his gun.
“是的，他说话的方式非常有趣。她知道她的主人要去哪里！”他补充道，拍拍拉斯卡，后者正围着莱文抱怨，舔着他的手、靴子和枪。

The trap was already at the steps when they went out.
他们出去的时候，陷阱已经在台阶上了。

‘I told them to bring the trap round; or would you rather walk?’
“我告诉他们把陷阱打开；或者你宁愿步行？

‘No, we’d better drive,’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch, getting into the trap. He sat down, tucked the tiger-skin rug round him, and lighted a cigar. ‘How is it you don’t smoke? A cigar is a sort of thing, not exactly a pleasure, but the crown and outward sign of pleasure. Come, this is life! How splendid it is! This is how I should like to live!’
“不，我们最好开车，”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇一边说，一边钻进了陷阱。他坐下来，盖上虎皮地毯，点燃了一支雪茄。 ‘你怎么不抽烟？雪茄是一种东西，不完全是一种快乐，而是快乐的顶峰和外在标志。来吧，这就是生活！多么美妙啊！这就是我想要的生活！

‘Why, who prevents you?’ said Levin, smiling.
“哎呀，谁阻止你了？”莱文微笑着说道。

‘No, you’re a lucky man! You’ve got everything you like. You like horses—and you have them; dogs—you have them; shooting— you have it; farming—you have it.’
‘不，你是一个幸运的人！你已经拥有了你喜欢的一切。你喜欢马——而且你拥有它们；狗——你有它们；射击——你有；农业——你拥有了。”

‘Perhaps because I rejoice in what I have, and don’t fret for what I haven’t,’ said Levin, thinking of Kitty.
“也许是因为我为自己拥有的东西感到高兴，而不为自己没有的东西烦恼，”莱文说，想到了基蒂。

Stepan Arkadyevitch comprehended, looked at him, but said nothing.
斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇明白了，看着他，但什么也没说。

Levin was grateful to Oblonsky for noticing, with his never-failing tact, that he dreaded conversation about the Shtcherbatskys, and so saying nothing about them. But now Levin was longing to find out what was tormenting him so, yet he had not the courage to begin.
莱文很感激奥布朗斯基以他一贯的机智注意到他害怕谈论谢尔巴茨基夫妇，因此对他们只字不提。但现在莱文很想知道到底是什么在折磨着他，但他却没有勇气开始。

‘Come, tell me how things are going with you,’ said Levin, bethinking himself that it was not nice of him to think only of himself.
“来吧，告诉我你的情况怎么样，”莱文说，他自己想到只考虑自己是不好的。

Stepan Arkadyevitch’s eyes sparkled merrily.
斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇的眼睛里闪烁着快乐的光芒。

‘You don’t admit, I know, that one can be fond of new rolls when one has had one’s rations of bread—to your mind it’s a crime; but I don’t count life as life without love,’ he said, taking Levin’s question his own way. ‘What am I to do? I’m made that way. And really, one does so little harm to anyone, and gives oneself so much pleasure...’
“我知道，你不承认，当一个人吃完定量的面包后，他会喜欢吃新面包——在你看来，这是一种犯罪； “但我不认为生活是没有爱的生活。”他用自己的方式回答了莱文的问题。 '我是什么做的？我就是这样的。真的，一个人对任何人造成的伤害是如此之小，却给自己带来如此多的快乐……”

‘What! is there something new, then?’ queried Levin.
'什么！那么有什么新的东西吗？”莱文问道。

‘Yes, my boy, there is! There, do you see, you know the type of Ossian’s women.... Women, such as one sees in dreams.... Well, these women are sometimes to be met in reality...and these women are terrible. Woman, don’t you know, is such a subject that however much you study it, it’s always perfectly new.’
‘是的，我的孩子，有！在那里，你看到了吗，你知道奥西安的女人是什么样的吗……女人，就像人们在梦中看到的那样……好吧，这些女人有时会在现实中遇到……而且这些女人很可怕。女人，你不知道吗，这是一个无论你研究多少，它总是全新的主题。

‘Well, then, it would be better not to study it.’
“好吧，那么，最好不要研究它。”

‘No. Some mathematician has said that enjoyment lies in the search for truth, not in the finding it.’
'不。一些数学家说过，乐趣在于寻找真理，而不是发现真理。

Levin listened in silence, and in spite of all the efforts he made, he could not in the least enter into the feelings of his friend and understand his sentiments and the charm of studying such women.
列文默默地听着，尽管他付出了一切努力，但他却丝毫无法体会这位朋友的感受，理解他的情感，也无法理解他研究这样的女人的魅力。

Chapter 15
第15章

The place fixed on for the stand-shooting was not far above a stream in a little aspen copse. On reaching the copse, Levin got out of the trap and led Oblonsky to a corner of a mossy, swampy glade, already quite free from snow. He went back himself to a double birch tree on the other side, and leaning his gun on the fork of a dead lower branch, he took off his full overcoat, fastened his belt again, and worked his arms to see if they were free.
固定拍摄的地点就在小溪上方不远处的一片白杨树林里。到达灌木丛后，莱文摆脱了陷阱，带着奥布朗斯基来到一片长满青苔、沼泽的空地的一角，那里已经没有积雪了。他自己回到另一边的一棵双桦树上，把枪靠在一根枯死的低枝的叉子上，脱下大衣，重新系好腰带，活动了一下手臂，看看它们是否自由了。

Gray old Laska, who had followed them, sat down warily opposite him and pricked up her ears. The sun was setting behind a thick forest, and in the glow of sunset the birch trees, dotted about in the aspen copse, stood out clearly with their hanging twigs, and their buds swollen almost to bursting.
跟在他们后面的灰色老拉斯卡小心翼翼地在他对面坐下，竖起耳朵。太阳正在茂密的森林后面落下，在夕阳的余晖下，点缀在白杨林中的白桦树，垂下的树枝格外显眼，花蕾都肿得快要爆裂了。

From the thickest parts of the copse, where the snow still remained, came the faint sound of narrow winding threads of water running away. Tiny birds twittered, and now and then fluttered from tree to tree.
从树林最茂密的地方，还有积雪的地方，传来细细蜿蜒的水流流淌的微弱声音。小鸟叽叽喳喳地叫着，时不时地从一棵树飞到另一棵树。

In the pauses of complete stillness there came the rustle of last year’s leaves, stirred by the thawing of the earth and the growth of the grass.
在完全静止的间歇中，传来了去年树叶的沙沙声，大地的融化和青草的生长搅动了树叶的沙沙声。

‘Imagine! One can hear and see the grass growing!’ Levin said to himself, noticing a wet, slate-colored aspen leaf moving beside a blade of young grass. He stood, listened, and gazed sometimes down at the wet mossy ground, sometimes at Laska listening all alert, sometimes at the sea of bare tree tops that stretched on the slope below him, sometimes at the darkening sky, covered with white streaks of cloud.
'想象！人们可以听到并看到草在生长！”莱文自言自语地说，注意到一片潮湿的石板色白杨叶子在一片嫩草叶旁边移动。他站着，听着，时而低头凝视着长满青苔的湿地，时而凝视着全神贯注地听着的拉斯卡，时而凝视着脚下斜坡上绵延的光秃秃的树顶海洋，时而凝视着漆黑的天空，上面布满了白色的云朵。 。

A hawk flew high over a forest far away with slow sweep of its wings; another flew with exactly the same motion in the same direction and vanished. The birds twittered more and more loudly and busily in the thicket. An owl hooted not far off, and Laska, starting, stepped cautiously a few steps forward, and putting her head on one side, began to listen intently. Beyond the stream was heard the cuckoo. Twice she uttered her usual cuckoo call, and then gave a hoarse, hurried call and broke down.
一只鹰在远处的森林上空飞翔，缓慢地扫动着翅膀；另一个以完全相同的动作朝同一方向飞行，然后消失了。灌木丛中的鸟儿叽叽喳喳地叫着，越来越大声，越来越忙碌。不远处传来一只猫头鹰的叫声，拉斯卡吓了一跳，小心翼翼地向前走了几步，把头侧向一侧，开始专心地听着。小溪那边传来布谷鸟的叫声。她像往常一样发出布谷鸟的叫声两次，然后发出一声嘶哑、急促的叫声，然后就崩溃了。

‘Imagine! the cuckoo already!’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch, coming out from behind a bush.
'想象！ “布谷鸟已经来了！”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇从灌木丛后面走出来说道。

‘Yes, I hear it,’ answered Levin, reluctantly breaking the stillness with his voice, which sounded disagreeable to himself. ‘Now it’s coming!’
“是的，我听到了。”莱文回答道，不情愿地用自己的声音打破了寂静，他的声音听上去很不舒服。 “现在它来了！”

Stepan Arkadyevitch’s figure again went behind the bush, and Levin saw nothing but the bright flash of a match, followed by the red glow and blue smoke of a cigarette.
斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇的身影又走到了灌木丛后面，列文只看到了一根火柴的亮光，接着是一支香烟的红色光芒和蓝色烟雾。

‘Tchk! tchk!’ came the snapping sound of Stepan Arkadyevitch cocking his gun.
‘切克！切克！”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇扣动枪的声音响起。

‘What’s that cry?’ asked Oblonsky, drawing Levin’s attention to a prolonged cry, as though a colt were whinnying in a high voice, in play.
“那叫声是什么？”奥布朗斯基问，他把莱文的注意力吸引到了一声长长的叫声上，就像一匹小马在嬉戏时高声嘶叫。

‘Oh, don’t you know it? That’s the hare. But enough talking! Listen, it’s flying!’ almost shrieked Levin, cocking his gun.
‘哦，你不知道吗？这就是野兔。但说得够多了！听，它在飞！”莱文举起枪，几乎尖叫起来。

They heard a shrill whistle in the distance, and in the exact time, so well known to the sportsman, two seconds later— another, a third, and after the third whistle the hoarse, guttural cry could be heard.
他们听到远处传来一声尖利的哨声，就在运动员熟知的确切时间，两秒钟后——又是一声，第三声，在第三声哨声之后，可以听到沙哑的、喉咙般的叫喊声。

Levin looked about him to right and to left, and there, just facing him against the dusky blue sky above the confused mass of tender shoots of the aspens, he saw the flying bird. It was flying straight towards him; the guttural cry, like the even tearing of some strong stuff, sounded close to his ear; the long beak and neck of the bird could be seen, and at the very instant when Levin was taking aim, behind the bush where Oblonsky stood, there was a flash of red lightning: the bird dropped like an arrow, and darted upwards again. Again came the red flash and the sound of a blow, and fluttering its wings as though trying to keep up in the air, the bird halted, stopped still an instant, and fell with a heavy splash on the slushy ground.
莱文左右看了看，就在他正对着他的地方，映衬着白杨树上那片混乱的嫩芽上方的暗蓝色天空，他看到了那只飞翔的鸟。它径直朝他飞来；喉咙里的叫声就在他耳边响起，就像某种坚硬的东西均匀地撕裂一样。就在莱文瞄准的那一瞬间，奥勃朗斯基站立的灌木丛后面，一道红色闪电闪过：那只鸟像箭一样落下，又向上飞去。红色闪光和撞击声再次响起，鸟儿拍打着翅膀，似乎想在空中保持静止，停了下来，停了下来，重重地摔在泥泞的地面上。

‘Can I have missed it?’ shouted Stepan Arkadyevitch, who could not see for the smoke.
“我会错过吗？”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇喊道，他因烟雾而看不见。

‘Here it is!’ said Levin, pointing to Laska, who with one ear raised, wagging the end of her shaggy tail, came slowly back as though she would prolong the pleasure, and as it were smiling, brought the dead bird to her master. ‘Well, I’m glad you were successful,’ said Levin, who, at the same time, had a sense of envy that he had not succeeded in shooting the snipe.
“就是这里了！”莱文指着拉斯卡说，拉斯卡竖起一只耳朵，摇着毛茸茸的尾巴末端，慢慢地回来，仿佛要延长快乐，当它微笑着时，把那只死鸟带到了她面前。掌握。 “好吧，我很高兴你成功了。”莱文说道，同时他也对自己没有成功射中鹬感到嫉妒。

‘It was a bad shot from the right barrel,’ responded Stepan Arkadyevitch, loading his gun. ‘Sh...it’s flying!’
“右枪管射出的一枪很糟糕，”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇一边装子弹，一边回答道。 “嘘……它飞起来了！”

The shrill whistles rapidly following one another were heard again. Two snipe, playing and chasing one another, and only whistling, not crying, flew straight at the very heads of the sportsmen. There was the report of four shots, and like swallows the snipe turned swift somersaults in the air and vanished from sight.
一阵急促的尖啸声再次响起。两只鹬，嬉戏追逐，只吹口哨，不鸣叫，径直飞向运动员们的头顶。一声枪响，四声枪响，鹬鸟像燕子一样在空中翻了个跟头，消失在视线中。

The stand-shooting was capital. Stepan Arkadyevitch shot two more birds and Levin two, of which one was not found. It began to get dark. Venus, bright and silvery, shone with her soft light low down in the west behind the birch trees, and high up in the east twinkled the red lights of Arcturus. Over his head Levin made out the stars of the Great Bear and lost them again. The snipe had ceased flying; but Levin resolved to stay a little longer, till Venus, which he saw below a branch of birch, should be above it, and the stars of the Great Bear should be perfectly plain. Venus had risen above the branch, and the ear of the Great Bear with its shaft was now all plainly visible against the dark blue sky, yet still he waited.
站立射击是资本。斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇又射杀了两只鸟，莱文射中了两只，但其中一只没有被发现。天开始黑了。金星，明亮而银色，在西方低处的白桦树后面闪烁着她柔和的光芒，而在东方高处则闪烁着大角星的红光。列文在头顶上辨认出大熊座的星星，但又消失了。鹬已经停止飞翔了；但莱文决定再待一会儿，直到他在桦树枝下看到的金星出现在桦树枝上方，而大熊座的星星也变得完全清晰。金星已经升到树枝上方，大熊的耳朵和它的轴现在在深蓝色的天空中清晰可见，但他仍在等待。

‘Isn’t it time to go home?’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch.
“还不到回家的时间吗？”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇说道。

It was quite still now in the copse, and not a bird was stirring.
现在树林里一片寂静，没有一只鸟儿在动。

‘Let’s stay a little while,’ answered Levin.
“我们再待一会儿吧，”莱文回答道。

‘As you like.’
'随你便。'

They were standing now about fifteen paces from one another.
他们现在站在一起，彼此相距大约十五步。

‘Stiva!’ said Levin unexpectedly; ‘how is it you don’t tell me whether your sister-in-law’s married yet, or when she’s going to be?’
“斯蒂瓦！”莱文出乎意料地说道。 “你怎么不告诉我你嫂子是否已经结婚了，或者什么时候结婚？”

Levin felt so resolute and serene that no answer, he fancied, could affect him. But he had never dreamed of what Stepan Arkadyevitch replied.
莱文感到如此坚定和平静，他认为没有任何答案可以影响他。但他做梦也没想到斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇会回答什么。

‘She’s never thought of being married, and isn’t thinking of it; but she’s very ill, and the doctors have sent her abroad. They’re positively afraid she may not live.’
“她从来没有想过结婚，现在也没有想过；但她病得很重，医生已经把她送出国了。他们非常担心她可能活不下去。

‘What!’ cried Levin. ‘Very ill? What is wrong with her? How has she...?’
“什么！”莱文喊道。 '病得不轻？她怎么了？她怎么……？

While they were saying this, Laska, with ears pricked up, was looking upwards at the sky, and reproachfully at them.
当他们说这话的时候，拉斯卡竖起耳朵，抬头看着天空，责备地看着他们。

‘They have chosen a time to talk,’ she was thinking. ‘It’s on the wing.... Here it is, yes, it is. They’ll miss it,’ thought Laska.
“他们已经选择了谈话的时间，”她想。 “它在机翼上……就在这里，是的，就是它。”他们会想念它的，”拉斯卡想。

But at that very instant both suddenly heard a shrill whistle which, as it were, smote on their ears, and both suddenly seized their guns and two flashes gleamed, and two gangs sounded at the very same instant. The snipe flying high above instantly folded its wings and fell into a thicket, bending down the delicate shoots.
但就在这时，两人突然听到一声尖锐的哨声，仿佛震耳欲聋，两人猛然握枪，两道闪光闪烁，两声同时响起。高空飞翔的鹬瞬间收起翅膀，落入灌木丛中，压弯了娇嫩的嫩芽。

‘Splendid! Together!’ cried Levin, and he ran with Laska into the thicket to look for the snipe.
'灿烂！一起！”莱文喊道，他和拉斯卡一起跑进灌木丛寻找鹬。

‘Oh, yes, what was it that was unpleasant?’ he wondered. ‘Yes, Kitty’s ill.... Well, it can’t be helped; I’m very sorry,’ he thought.
“哦，是的，有什么不愉快的事吗？”他想知道。 “是的，基蒂病了……好吧，这是没办法的事；”我很抱歉，”他想。

‘She’s found it! Isn’t she a clever thing?’ he said, taking the warm bird from Laska’s mouth and packing it into the almost full game bag. ‘I’ve got it, Stiva!’ he shouted.
‘她找到了！她不是个聪明人吗？”他一边说，一边从拉斯卡嘴里接过那只温暖的小鸟，把它装进几乎装满的猎物袋里。 “我找到了，斯蒂瓦！”他喊道。

Chapter 16
第16章

On the way home Levin asked all details of Kitty’s illness and the Shtcherbatskys’ plans, and though he would have been ashamed to admit it, he was pleased at what he heard. He was pleased that there was still hope, and still more pleased that she should be suffering who had made him suffer so much. But when Stepan Arkadyevitch began to speak of the causes of Kitty’s illness, and mentioned Vronsky’s name, Levin cut him short.
在回家的路上，莱文询问了基蒂的病情和谢尔巴茨基一家的计划的所有细节，虽然他羞于承认，但他对所听到的感到很高兴。他很高兴还有希望，更高兴的是让他受了这么多苦的她竟然在受苦。但当斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇开始谈到基蒂患病的原因并提到渥伦斯基的名字时，列文打断了他的话。

‘I have no right whatever to know family matters, and, to tell the truth, no interest in them either.’
“我没有任何权利知道家庭事务，而且说实话，我对它们也没有兴趣。”

Stepan Arkadyevitch smiled hardly perceptibly, catching the instantaneous change he knew so well in Levin’s face, which had become as gloomy as it had been bright a minute before.
斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇几乎察觉不到地笑了，他在列文脸上看到了他非常熟悉的瞬间变化，他的脸变得像一分钟前的明亮一样阴沉。

‘Have you quite settled about the forest with Ryabinin?’ asked Levin.
“你和里亚宾宁已经把森林的事搞定了吗？”列文问道。

‘Yes, it’s settled. The price is magnificent; thirty-eight thousand. Eight straight away, and the rest in six years. I’ve been bothering about it for ever so long. No one would give more.’
‘是的，事情就这么定了。价格非常昂贵；三万八千。直接八个，其余的六年后。我已经为此烦恼了很长时间。没有人愿意付出更多。”

‘Then you’ve as good as given away your forest for nothing,’ said Levin gloomily.
“那么你就等于白白放弃了你的森林。”莱文阴郁地说。

‘How do you mean for nothing?’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch with a good-humored smile, knowing that nothing would be right in Levin’s eyes now.
“你的意思是，什么都没有？”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季维奇带着和善的微笑说道，他知道现在列文眼里什么都不对劲了。

‘Because the forest is worth at least a hundred and fifty roubles the acre,’ answered Levin.
“因为森林每英亩至少值一百五十卢布，”列文回答道。

‘Oh, these farmers!’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch playfully. ‘Your tone of contempt for us poor townsfolk!... But when it comes to business, we do it better than anyone. I assure you I have reckoned it all out,’ he said, ‘and the forest is fetching a very good price—so much so that I’m afraid of this fellow’s crying off, in fact. You know it’s not ‘timber,’’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch, hoping by this distinction to convince Levin completely of the unfairness of his doubts. ‘And it won’t run to more than twenty-five yards of fagots per acre, and he’s giving me at the rate of seventy roubles the acre.’
“哦，这些农民！”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇开玩笑地说。 “你的语气是对我们可怜的镇民的蔑视！……但说到生意，我们比任何人都做得更好。”我向你保证，我已经把一切都算清楚了，”他说，“这片森林现在卖得非常好——高得让我担心这个家伙会哭掉。”你知道这不是“木材”，斯捷潘·阿尔卡季维奇说，希望通过这种区别让莱文完全相信他的怀疑是不公平的。 “每英亩的柴草不会超过二十五码，而他按照每英亩七十卢布的价格给我。”

Levin smiled contemptuously. ‘I know,’ he thought, ‘that fashion not only in him, but in all city people, who, after being twice in ten years in the country, pick up two or three phrases and use them in season and out of season, firmly persuaded that they know all about it. ‘Timber, run to so many yards the acre.’ He says those words without understanding them himself.’
莱文轻蔑地笑了笑。 “我知道，”他想，“这种时尚不仅存在于他身上，也存在于所有城里人身上，他们十年来两次乡下生活，学会了两三个短语，并在季节和季节使用它们，坚定地相信他们知道这一切。 “木材，跑到一英亩那么多码的地方。”他自己都听不懂这些话。

‘I wouldn’t attempt to teach you what you write about in your office,’ said he, ‘and if need arose, I should come to you to ask about it. But you’re so positive you know all the lore of the forest. It’s difficult. Have you counted the trees?’
“我不会试图教你在办公室里写什么，”他说，“如果有需要，我应该来找你询问。”但你非常自信，你知道森林的所有知识。它很难。你数过树木了吗？

‘How count the trees?’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch, laughing, still trying to draw his friend out of his ill-temper. ‘Count the sands of the sea, number the stars. Some higher power might do it.’
“怎么数树呢？”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇笑着说，仍然试图让他的朋友摆脱坏脾气。 ‘数一数海沙，数一数星星。一些更高的力量可能会做到这一点。

‘Oh, well, the higher power of Ryabinin can. Not a single merchant ever buys a forest without counting the trees, unless they get it given them for nothing, as you’re doing now. I know your forest. I go there every year shooting, and your forest’s worth a hundred and fifty roubles an acre paid down, while he’s giving you sixty by installments. So that in fact you’re making him a present of thirty thousand.’
‘哦，好吧，里亚宾宁的更高力量可以。没有一个商人会在不计算树木的情况下购买森林，除非他们像你现在所做的那样免费获得森林。我了解你的森林。我每年都去那里打猎，你的森林每英亩价值一百五十卢布，而他分期给你六十卢布。所以事实上你是在送给他一份三万块钱的礼物。

‘Come, don’t let your imagination run away with you,’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch piteously. ‘Why was it none would give it, then?’
“来吧，别让你的想象力跑掉了。”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇可怜兮兮地说。 “那为什么没人肯给呢？”

‘Why, because he has an understanding with the merchants; he’s bought them off. I’ve had to do with all of them; I know them. They’re not merchants, you know: they’re speculators. He wouldn’t look at a bargain that gave him ten, fifteen per cent profit, but holds back to buy a rouble’s worth for twenty kopecks.’
‘为什么呢，因为他与商人有默契；他买下了他们。我不得不与他们所有人打交道；我知道他们。你知道，他们不是商人：他们是投机者。他不会考虑给他带来百分之十、十五利润的便宜货，但会犹豫以二十戈比购买一卢布。

‘Well, enough of it! You’re out of temper.’
‘好了，够了！你没脾气了。

‘Not the least,’ said Levin gloomily, as they drove up to the house.
“一点也不重要，”他们开车朝房子走去时，莱文阴郁地说。

At the steps there stood a trap tightly covered with iron and leather, with a sleek horse tightly harnessed with broad collar-straps. In the trap sat the chubby, tightly belted clerk who served Ryabinin as coachman. Ryabinin himself was already in the house, and met the friends in the hall. Ryabinin was a tall, thinnish, middle-aged man, with mustache and a projecting clean-shaven chin, and prominent muddy-looking eyes. He was dressed in a long-skirted blue coat, with buttons below the waist at the back, and wore high boots wrinkled over the ankles and straight over the calf, with big galoshes drawn over them. He rubbed his face with his handkerchief, and wrapping round him his coat, which sat extremely well as it was, he greeted them with a smile, holding out his hand to Stepan Arkadyevitch, as though he wanted to catch something.
台阶上立着一个用铁和皮革紧紧覆盖的陷阱，一匹光滑的马被宽大的项圈紧紧套着。陷阱里坐着一个胖乎乎、腰带系得很紧的店员，他是里亚宾宁的车夫。里亚宾宁本人已经进屋了，并在大厅里会见了朋友们。里亚宾宁是个身材高大、瘦弱的中年男子，留着小胡子，下巴刮得干干净净，突出，眼睛突出，看上去浑浊。他穿着一件蓝色长裙，后面有腰部以下的纽扣，穿着高筒靴，从脚踝到小腿都皱巴巴的，外面套着大套鞋。他用手帕擦了擦脸，又把外套裹在身上，外套本来就很合身，他微笑着向他们打招呼，向斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇伸出手，仿佛想要抓住什么。

‘So here you are,’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch, giving him his hand. ‘That’s capital.’
“你来了，”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇向他伸出了手。 “这就是资本。”

‘I did not venture to disregard your excellency’s commands, though the road was extremely bad. I positively walked the whole way, but I am here at my time. Konstantin Dmitrievitch, my respects”; he turned to Levin, trying to seize his hand too. But Levin, scowling, made as though he did not notice his hand, and took out the snipe. ‘Your honors have been diverting yourselves with the chase? What kind of bird may it be, pray?’ added Ryabinin, looking contemptuously at the snipe: ‘a great delicacy, I suppose.’ And he shook his head disapprovingly, as though he had grave doubts whether this game were worth the candle.
“虽然路况极差，但我不敢无视大人的命令。我积极地走完全程，但我是在我的时间来的。康斯坦丁·德米特里耶维奇，尊敬的”；他转向莱文，也试图抓住他的手。但列文皱着眉头，假装没有注意到自己的手，拿出了鹬。 “阁下一直在忙于追逐吗？请问，这是什么鸟？”里亚宾宁轻蔑地看着鹬，补充道：“我想，这是一种美味佳肴。”他不以为然地摇摇头，仿佛他严重怀疑这场游戏是否得不偿失。

‘Would you like to go into my study?’ Levin said in French to Stepan Arkadyevitch, scowling morosely. ‘Go into my study; you can talk there.’
“你愿意到我的书房去吗？”列文愁眉苦脸地用法语对斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇说道。 ‘到我的书房去吧；你可以在那里说话。

‘Quite so, where you please,’ said Ryabinin with contemptuous dignity, as though wishing to make it felt that others might be in difficulties as to how to behave, but that he could never be in any difficulty about anything.
“确实如此，随你便。”里亚宾宁带着轻蔑的尊严说道，仿佛想让别人觉得别人可能在如何表现方面遇到困难，但他永远不会在任何事情上遇到任何困难。

On entering the study Ryabinin looked about, as his habit was, as though seeking the holy picture, but when he had found it, he did not cross himself. He scanned the bookcases and bookshelves, and with the same dubious air with which he had regarded the snipe, he smiled contemptuously and shook his head disapprovingly, as though by no means willing to allow that this game were worth the candle.
里亚宾宁一走进书房，就按照他的习惯四处张望，仿佛在寻找那幅圣像，但当他找到它时，他并没有画十字。他扫视了一遍书柜和书架，带着当初看鹬时的怀疑神情，轻蔑地笑了笑，不以为然地摇了摇头，似乎绝不肯让这个游戏得不偿失。

‘Well, have you brought the money?’ asked Oblonsky. ‘Sit down.’
“嗯，你带钱了吗？”奥布朗斯基问道。 '坐下。'

‘Oh, don’t trouble about the money. I’ve come to see you to talk it over.’
‘哦，别为钱的事烦恼。我来找你是想商量一下。”

‘What is there to talk over? But do sit down.’
‘有什么好聊的？但请坐下。

‘I don’t mind if I do,’ said Ryabinin, sitting down and leaning his elbows on the back of his chair in a position of the intensest discomfort to himself. ‘You must knock it down a bit, prince. It would be too bad. The money is ready conclusively to the last farthing. As to paying the money down, there’ll be no hitch there.’
“我不介意这样做，”里亚比宁坐下来，把胳膊肘靠在椅背上，摆出一种让自己感到最不舒服的姿势。 “你必须把它压低一点，王子。那就太糟糕了。钱已经准备到最后一分钱了。至于首付，就不会有什么问题了。

Levin, who had meanwhile been putting his gun away in the cupboard, was just going out of the door, but catching the merchant’s words, he stopped.
莱文此时正把枪收进柜子里，正要出门，却听见商人的话，停了下来。

‘Why, you’ve got the forest for nothing as it is,’ he said. ‘He came to me too late, or I’d have fixed the price for him.’
“哎呀，你白白得到了森林，”他说。 “他来找我太晚了，不然我就为他定价了。”

Ryabinin got up, and in silence, with a smile, he looked Levin down and up.
里亚宾宁站了起来，默默地微笑着，上下打量着列文。

‘Very close about money is Konstantin Dmitrievitch,’ he said with a smile, turning to Stepan Arkadyevitch; ‘there’s positively no dealing with him. I was bargaining for some wheat of him, and a pretty price I offered too.’
“康斯坦丁·德米特里耶维奇对金钱非常关心，”他笑着说道，转向斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇。 ‘确实没有办法和他打交道。我正在讨价还价，想买他的一些小麦，而且我也开出了一个不错的价格。

‘Why should I give you my goods for nothing? I didn’t pick it up on the ground, nor steal it either.’
‘我为什么要白白给你我的东西？我没有在地上捡起它，也没有偷它。

‘Mercy on us! nowadays there’s no chance at all of stealing. With the open courts and everything done in style, nowadays there’s no question of stealing. We are just talking things over like gentlemen. His excellency’s asking too much for the forest. I can’t make both ends meet over it. I must ask for a little concession.’
‘怜悯我们吧！现在根本没有偷窃的机会。由于球场开放，一切都做得很时尚，现在不存在偷窃的问题。我们只是像绅士一样讨论事情。阁下对森林的要求太高了。我无法为此维持收支平衡。我必须要求一点让步。

‘But is the thing settled between you or not? If it’s settled, it’s useless haggling; but if it’s not,’ said Levin, ‘I’ll buy the forest.’
“但是你们之间的事情解决了吗？如果事情解决了，再讨价还价也没用；但如果不是，”莱文说，“我就买下这片森林。”

The smile vanished at once from Ryabinin’s face. A hawklike, greedy, cruel expression was left upon it. With rapid, bony fingers he unbuttoned his coat, revealing a shirt, bronze waistcoat buttons, and a watch chain, and quickly pulled out a fat old pocketbook.
里亚宾宁脸上的笑容立刻消失了。上面留下了鹰一般的、贪婪的、残忍的表情。他用瘦骨嶙峋的手指迅速解开外套的扣子，露出一件衬衫、青铜背心纽扣和一条表链，然后迅速掏出一个厚厚的旧皮夹。

‘Here you are, the forest is mine,’ he said, crossing himself quickly, and holding out his hand. ‘Take the money; it’s my forest. That’s Ryabinin’s way of doing business; he doesn’t haggle over every half-penny,’ he added, scowling and waving the pocketbook.
“给你，这片森林是我的，”他说着，迅速在胸前画了十字，并伸出了手。 ‘拿走钱；这是我的森林。这就是里亚宾宁的做生意方式；他不会为每一分钱讨价还价，”他补充道，皱起眉头，挥舞着钱包。

‘I wouldn’t be in a hurry if I were you,’ said Levin.
“如果我是你，我就不会着急，”莱文说。

‘Come, really,’ said Oblonsky in surprise. ‘I’ve given my word, you know.’
“来吧，真的，”奥布朗斯基惊讶地说。 “你知道，我已经做出了承诺。”

Levin went out of the room, slamming the door. Ryabinin looked towards the door and shook his head with a smile.
莱文走出房间，关上了门。里亚宾宁看向门口，微笑着摇了摇头。

‘It’s all youthfulness—positively nothing but boyishness. Why, I’m buying it, upon my honor, simply, believe me, for the glory of it, that Ryabinin, and no one else, should have bought the copse of Oblonsky. And as to the profits, why, I must make what God gives. In God’s name. If you would kindly sign the title-deed...’
“这都是青春——除了孩子气之外什么也没有。嘿，我买下它，以我的名誉，简单地说，相信我，为了它的荣耀，里亚宾宁，而不是其他人，应该买下奥布隆斯基的树林。至于利润，为什么，我必须赚上帝赐予的钱。以上帝的名义。如果您愿意签署产权契约……”

Within an hour the merchant, stroking his big overcoat neatly down, and hooking up his jacket, with the agreement in his pocket, seated himself in his tightly covered trap, and drove homewards.
不到一个小时，商人就整齐地脱下大衣，勾起外套，口袋里揣着协议，坐进严严实实的陷阱里，开车回家了。

‘Ugh, these gentlefolks!’ he said to the clerk. ‘They—they’re a nice lot!’
“啊，这些绅士们！”他对店员说。 “他们——他们真是一群好人！”

‘That’s so,’ responded the clerk, handing him the reins and buttoning the leather apron. ‘But I can congratulate you on the purchase, Mihail Ignatitch?’
“是的，”店员回答道，把缰绳递给他，并扣上皮围裙的扣子。 “但是我可以祝贺你购买了它，米哈伊尔·伊格纳蒂奇？”

‘Well, well...’
'好吧...'

Chapter 17
第17章

Stepan Arkadyevitch went upstairs with his pocket bulging with notes, which the merchant had paid him for three months in advance. The business of the forest was over, the money in his pocket; their shooting had been excellent, and Stepan Arkadyevitch was in the happiest frame of mind, and so he felt specially anxious to dissipate the ill-humor that had come upon Levin. He wanted to finish the day at supper as pleasantly as it had been begun.
斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇上楼去了，口袋里装满了钞票，商人已经预付了他三个月的钱。森林的生意结束了，钱在他的口袋里；他们的射击非常出色，斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇心情非常愉快，因此他特别渴望消除列文身上的坏脾气。他想在晚餐时像开始时一样愉快地结束这一天。

Levin certainly was out of humor, and in spite of all his desire to be affectionate and cordial to his charming visitor, he could not control his mood. The intoxication of the news that Kitty was not married had gradually begun to work upon him.
莱文当然没有幽默感，尽管他非常渴望对这位迷人的访客表现出亲切和热情，但他无法控制自己的情绪。基蒂没有结婚的消息逐渐让他陶醉。

Kitty was not married, but ill, and ill from love for a man who had slighted her. This slight, as it were, rebounded upon him. Vronsky had slighted her, and she had slighted him, Levin. Consequently Vronsky had the right to despise Levin, and therefore he was his enemy. But all this Levin did not think out. He vaguely felt that there was something in it insulting to him, and he was not angry now at what had disturbed him, but he fell foul of everything that presented itself. The stupid sale of the forest, the fraud practiced upon Oblonsky and concluded in his house, exasperated him.
基蒂没有结婚，但她生病了，而且是因为爱上了一个轻视她的男人而生病的。可以说，这种轻微的感觉反弹到了他身上。渥伦斯基轻视了她，她也轻视了他，列文。因此渥伦斯基有权鄙视列文，因此他是列文的敌人。但这一切莱文都没有想到。他隐隐约约地感觉到这里面有某种侮辱他的东西，他现在并不因为那些困扰他的事情而生气，但他对眼前出现的一切感到不舒服。愚蠢的森林买卖，以及在奥布朗斯基身上实施并在他家里进行的欺诈行为，激怒了他。

‘Well, finished?’ he said, meeting Stepan Arkadyevitch upstairs. ‘Would you like supper?’
“好了，完成了吗？”他在楼上遇见斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇时说道。 “你想吃晚饭吗？”

‘Well, I wouldn’t say no to it. What an appetite I get in the country! Wonderful! Why didn’t you offer Ryabinin something?’
‘好吧，我不会拒绝。我在乡下的胃口真大！精彩的！你为什么不给里亚宾宁一些东西？

‘Oh, damn him!’
“哦，该死的他！”

‘Still, how you do treat him!’ said Oblonsky. ‘You didn’t even shake hands with him. Why not shake hands with him?’
“不过，你是怎么对待他的！”奥布朗斯基说道。 “你甚至没有和他握手。为什么不和他握手呢？

‘Because I don’t shake hands with a waiter, and a waiter’s a hundred times better than he is.’
“因为我不和服务员握手，而服务员比他好一百倍。”

‘What a reactionist you are, really! What about the amalgamation of classes?’ said Oblonsky.
‘你真是个反动派，真的！班级合并怎么样？”奥布朗斯基说。

‘Anyone who likes amalgamating is welcome to it, but it sickens me.’
“欢迎任何喜欢合并的人加入，但这让我感到恶心。”

‘You’re a regular reactionist, I see.’
“我明白了，你是个普通的反动派。”

‘Really, I have never considered what I am. I am Konstantin Levin, and nothing else.’
‘说实话，我从来没有考虑过我是什么。我是康斯坦丁·莱文，仅此而已。

‘And Konstantin Levin very much out of temper,’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch, smiling.
“康斯坦丁·莱文脾气非常暴躁，”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇微笑着说道。

‘Yes, I am out of temper, and do you know why? Because—excuse me—of your stupid sale...’
“是的，我脾气不好，你知道为什么吗？因为——对不起——你愚蠢的销售……”

Stepan Arkadyevitch frowned good-humoredly, like one who feels himself teased and attacked for no fault of his own.
斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇幽默地皱起了眉头，就像一个觉得自己没有因为自己的过错而受到嘲笑和攻击的人。

‘Come, enough about it!’ he said. ‘When did anybody ever sell anything without being told immediately after the sale, ‘It was worth much more’? But when one wants to sell, no one will give anything.... No, I see you’ve a grudge against that unlucky Ryabinin.’
“来吧，够了！”他说。 “什么时候有人在出售任何东西后没有立即被告知‘它的价值更高’？但当有人想卖的时候，没有人愿意给任何东西……不，我看你对那个倒霉的里亚宾宁怀有怨恨。

‘Maybe I have. And do you know why? You’ll say again that I’m a reactionist, or some other terrible word; but all the same it does annoy and anger me to see on all sides the impoverishing of the nobility to which I belong, and, in spite of the amalgamation of classes, I’m glad to belong. And their impoverishment is not due to extravagance—that would be nothing; living in good style —that’s the proper thing for noblemen; it’s only the nobles who know how to do it. Now the peasants about us buy land, and I don’t mind that. The gentleman does nothing, while the peasant works and supplants the idle man. That’s as it ought to be. And I’m very glad for the peasant. But I do mind seeing the process of impoverishment from a sort of—I don’t know what to call it— innocence. Here a Polish speculator bought for half its value a magnificent estate from a young lady who lives in Nice. And there a merchant will get three acres of land, worth ten roubles, as security for the loan of one rouble. Here, for no kind of reason, you’ve made that rascal a present of thirty thousand roubles.’
'也许我有。你知道为什么吗？你会再次说我是反动派，或者其他一些可怕的词；但尽管如此，看到我所属的贵族在各个方面都在贫困化，我确实感到恼火和愤怒，尽管阶级融合了，但我很高兴属于贵族。他们的贫穷并不是因为奢侈——那没什么；而是因为奢侈。有格调地生活——这是贵族该做的事情；只有贵族才知道怎么做。现在我们周围的农民都买地了，我不介意。君子无所事事，而农民则劳作，取代游手好闲的人。这是应该的。我为农民感到非常高兴。但我确实介意以一种——我不知道该叫什么——纯真来看待贫困的过程。在这里，一位波兰投机者以一半的价格从一位住在尼斯的年轻女士那里买下了一座宏伟的庄园。在那里，商人将获得价值十卢布的三英亩土地，作为一卢布贷款的担保。在这里，你无缘无故地给了那个流氓一份三万卢布的礼物。

‘Well, what should I have done? Counted every tree?’
‘那么，我应该做什么呢？数过每棵树吗？

‘Of course, they must be counted. You didn’t count them, but Ryabinin did. Ryabinin’s children will have means of livelihood and education, while yours maybe will not!’
‘当然，他们必须被计算在内。你没有数，但里亚宾宁数了。里亚宾宁的孩子将有谋生和教育的手段，而你的孩子可能不会！

‘Well, you must excuse me, but there’s something mean in this counting. We have our business and they have theirs, and they must make their profit. Anyway, the thing’s done, and there’s an end of it. And here come some poached eggs, my favorite dish. And Agafea Mihalovna will give us that marvelous herb-brandy...’
“好吧，请原谅我，但是这个计数有些意思。我们有我们的生意，他们有他们的生意，他们必须盈利。无论如何，事情已经完成了，也该结束了。这是荷包蛋，我最喜欢的菜。阿加菲娅·米哈伊洛芙娜将为我们带来美妙的香草白兰地……”

Stepan Arkadyevitch sat down at the table and began joking with Agafea Mihalovna, assuring her that it was long since he had tasted such a dinner and such a supper.
斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇在桌边坐下，开始和阿加菲娅·米哈伊洛芙娜开玩笑，向她保证他已经很久没有吃过这样的晚餐和晚餐了。

‘Well, you do praise it, anyway,’ said Agafea Mihalovna, ‘but Konstantin Dmitrievitch, give him what you will—a crust of bread—he’ll eat it and walk away.’
“好吧，无论如何，你确实赞扬了它，”阿加菲娅·米哈伊洛夫娜说，“但是康斯坦丁·德米特里耶维奇，给他你想要的东西——一片面包——他会吃掉它然后走开。”

Though Levin tried to control himself, he was gloomy and silent. He wanted to put one question to Stepan Arkadyevitch, but he could not bring himself to the point, and could not find the words or the moment in which to put it. Stepan Arkadyevitch had gone down to his room, undressed, again washed, and attired in a nightshirt with goffered frills, he had got into bed, but Levin still lingered in his room, talking of various trifling matters, and not daring to ask what he wanted to know.
莱文虽然极力克制自己，但他的表情却阴郁而沉默。他想向斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇提出一个问题，但他无法切入主题，也找不到合适的词语或时机提出这个问题。斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇已经下楼回自己的房间了，脱掉衣服，又洗了澡，穿上一件有褶边的睡衣，上了床，但列文仍然在自己的房间里徘徊，谈论着各种琐事，也不敢问他在做什么。想知道。

‘How wonderfully they make this soap,’ he said gazing at a piece of soap he was handling, which Agafea Mihalovna had put ready for the visitor but Oblonsky had not used. ‘Only look; why, it’s a work of art.’
“他们制作的肥皂真是太棒了，”他凝视着他手里的一块肥皂说道，这块肥皂是阿加菲娅·米哈伊洛夫娜为来访者准备的，但奥布隆斯基没有使用。 ‘只看；为什么，这是一件艺术品。

‘Yes, everything’s brought to such a pitch of perfection nowadays,’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch, with a moist and blissful yawn. ‘The theater, for instance, and the entertainments... a—a—a!’ he yawned. ‘The electric light everywhere...a—a—a!’
“是的，如今一切都变得如此完美，”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇打着湿润而幸福的哈欠说道。 “比如说剧院，还有娱乐活动……啊——啊——啊！”他打着哈欠。 “到处都是电灯……啊——啊——啊！”

‘Yes, the electric light,’ said Levin. ‘Yes. Oh, and where’s Vronsky now?’ he asked suddenly, laying down the soap.
“是的，电灯，”莱文说。 '是的。哦，渥伦斯基现在在哪儿？”他放下肥皂，突然问道。

‘Vronsky?’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch, checking his yawn; ‘he’s in Petersburg. He left soon after you did, and he’s not once been in Moscow since. And do you know, Kostya, I’ll tell you the truth,’ he went on, leaning his elbow on the table, and propping on his hand his handsome ruddy face, in which his moist, good-natured, sleepy eyes shone like stars. ‘It’s your own fault. You took fright at the sight of your rival. But, as I told you at the time, I couldn’t say which had the better chance. Why didn’t you fight it out? I told you at the time that....’ He yawned inwardly, without opening his mouth.
“渥伦斯基？”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇止住哈欠，说道。 “他在彼得堡。”你离开后不久他就离开了，从那以后他就再也没有去过莫斯科。你知道吗，克斯特亚，我会告诉你真相，”他继续说道，胳膊肘靠在桌子上，一只手撑着他英俊的红润脸庞，他那湿润、善良、睡眼惺忪的眼睛闪闪发光，就像星星。 ‘这是你自己的错。你一看到你的对手就感到害怕。但是，正如我当时告诉你的那样，我无法说哪个机会更好。你为什么不去奋斗呢？我当时就告诉过你……”他心里打了个哈欠，却没有开口。

‘Does he know, or doesn’t he, that I did make an offer?’ Levin wondered, gazing at him. ‘Yes, there’s something humbugging, diplomatic in his face,’ and feeling he was blushing, he looked Stepan Arkadyevitch straight in the face without speaking.
“他知道还是不知道我确实提出了要约？”莱文看着他，疑惑道。 “是的，他脸上有一种欺骗性的、圆滑的表情，”他感觉自己脸红了，直视着斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇的脸，没有说话。

‘If there was anything on her side at the time, it was nothing but a superficial attraction,’ pursued Oblonsky. ‘His being such a perfect aristocrat, don’t you know, and his future position in society, had an influence not with her, but with her mother.’
“如果说当时她身边有什么的话，那也只不过是一种表面的吸引力，”奥布朗斯基继续说道。 “你知道吗，他是一位如此完美的贵族，他未来在社会上的地位，影响的不是她，而是她的母亲。”

Levin scowled. The humiliation of his rejection stung him to the heart, as though it were a fresh wound he had only just received. But he was at home, and the walls of home are a support.
莱文皱起了眉头。被拒绝的羞辱刺痛了他的心，仿佛这是他刚刚受到的新伤。但他在家，家的墙就是支撑。

‘Stay, stay,’ he began, interrupting Oblonsky. ‘You talk of his being an aristocrat. But allow me to ask what it consists in, that aristocracy of Vronsky or of anybody else, beside which I can be looked down upon? You consider Vronsky an aristocrat, but I don’t. A man whose father crawled up from nothing at all by intrigue, and whose mother—God knows whom she wasn’t mixed up with.... No, excuse me, but I consider myself aristocratic, and people like me, who can point back in the past to three or four honorable generations of their family, of the highest degree of breeding (talent and intellect, of course that’s another matter), and have never curried favor with anyone, never depended on anyone for anything, like my father and my grandfather. And I know many such. You think it mean of me to count the trees in my forest, while you make Ryabinin a present of thirty thousand; but you get rents from your lands and I don’t know what, while I don’t and so I prize what’s come to me from my ancestors or been won by hard work.... We are aristocrats, and not those who can only exist by favor of the powerful of this world, and who can be bought for twopence halfpenny.’
“留下来，留下来，”他打断了奥布朗斯基的话。 “你说他是个贵族。但请允许我问一下，渥伦斯基或其他任何人的贵族制度是什么，除此之外我还能被人瞧不起？你认为渥伦斯基是贵族，但我不这么认为。一个父亲靠阴谋从一无所有爬起来的男人，而他的母亲——天知道她没有和谁混在一起……不，对不起，但我认为自己是贵族，而像我这样的人，谁能指出呢？过去他们家有三四代光荣的人，有最高的教养（当然，才华和智力是另一回事），从来没有讨好过任何人，从来没有依赖过任何人，就像我父亲一样和我的祖父。我认识很多这样的人。你认为我数着森林里的树木是卑鄙的，而你却送给里亚宾宁三万块钱的礼物；但是你从你的土地上得到租金，我不知道是什么，而我不知道，所以我珍惜​​我的祖先给我带来的东西，或者通过努力工作赢得的东西……我们是贵族，而不是那些有能力的人。只存在于这个世界上的强者的青睐，并且可以用两便士半便士购买。

‘Well, but whom are you attacking? I agree with you,’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch, sincerely and genially; though he was aware that in the class of those who could be bought for twopence halfpenny Levin was reckoning him too. Levin’s warmth gave him genuine pleasure. ‘Whom are you attacking? Though a good deal is not true that you say about Vronsky, but I won’t talk about that. I tell you straight out, if I were you, I should go back with me to Moscow, and...’
‘好吧，但是你攻击谁呢？我同意你的看法。”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇真诚而和蔼地说。尽管他知道，在那些可以用两便士半便士买到的人中，莱文也算上了他。莱文的热情给了他真正的快乐。 ‘你攻击谁？虽然你所说的关于渥伦斯基的事情很多都不是真的，但我不会谈论这个。我直接告诉你，如果我是你，我应该和我一起回莫斯科，然后……”

‘No; I don’t know whether you know it or not, but I don’t care. And I tell you—I did make an offer and was rejected, and Katerina Alexandrovna is nothing now to me but a painful and humiliating reminiscence.’
'不;我不知道你是否知道，但我不在乎。我告诉你——我确实提出了要约，但被拒绝了，卡捷琳娜·亚历山德罗夫娜现在对我来说除了痛苦和羞辱的回忆之外什么也不是。

‘What ever for? What nonsense!’
‘到底是为了什么？胡说些什么！'

‘But we won’t talk about it. Please forgive me, if I’ve been nasty,’ said Levin. Now that he had opened his heart, he became as he had been in the morning. ‘You’re not angry with me, Stiva? Please don’t be angry,’ he said, and smiling, he took his hand.
‘但我们不会谈论它。如果我的行为很恶劣，请原谅我。”莱文说道。既然他敞开了心扉，他就和早上一样了。 “你没有生我的气吗，斯蒂瓦？请不要生气，”他微笑着握住他的手说道。

‘Of course not; not a bit, and no reason to be. I’m glad we’ve spoken openly. And do you know, stand-shooting in the morning is unusually good—why not go? I couldn’t sleep the night anyway, but I might go straight from shooting to the station.’
'当然不是;没有一点，也没有理由。我很高兴我们能开诚布公地交谈。你知道吗，早上的站立拍摄非常好——为什么不去呢？无论如何，我晚上都睡不着，但我可能拍完戏就直接去车站。”

‘Capital.’
'首都。'

Chapter 18
第18章

Although all Vronsky’s inner life was absorbed in his passion, his external life unalterably and inevitably followed along the old accustomed lines of his social and regimental ties and interests. The interests of his regiment took an important place in Vronsky’s life, both because he was fond of the regiment, and because the regiment was fond of him. They were not only fond of Vronsky in his regiment, they respected him too, and were proud of him; proud that this man, with his immense wealth, his brilliant education and abilities, and the path open before him to every kind of success, distinction, and ambition, had disregarded all that, and of all the interests of life had the interests of his regiment and his comrades nearest to his heart. Vronsky was aware of his comrades’ view of him, and in addition to his liking for the life, he felt bound to keep up that reputation.
尽管渥伦斯基的全部内心生活都沉浸在他的激情中，但他的外在生活却不可改变地、不可避免地遵循着他的社会和团伙关系和利益的旧习惯路线。团的利益在渥伦斯基的生活中占有重要地位，既因为他喜欢团，也因为团喜欢他。他们不仅喜欢弗龙斯基所在的团，而且还尊敬他，并为他感到骄傲。我感到自豪的是，这个人拥有巨大的财富、出色的教育和能力，以及在他面前敞开的通向各种成功、杰出和野心的道路，却忽视了这一切，并且在生活的所有利益中只顾到了他的利益。团和他最关心的战友。渥伦斯基知道他的同志们对他的看法，除了他对生活的热爱之外，他觉得有必要保持这种声誉。

It need not be said that he did not speak of his love to any of his comrades, nor did he betray his secret even in the wildest drinking bouts (though indeed he was never so drunk as to lose all control of himself). And he shut up any of his thoughtless comrades who attempted to allude to his connection. But in spite of that, his love was known to all the town; everyone guessed with more or less confidence at his relations with Madame Karenina. The majority of the younger men envied him for just what was the most irksome factor in his love—the exalted position of Karenin, and the consequent publicity of their connection in society.
不用说，他没有向任何同志诉说自己的爱情，即使在最疯狂的酗酒中，他也没有泄露自己的秘密（尽管事实上，他从来没有醉得失去控制）。他还让那些试图暗示他与他有联系的轻率同志闭嘴。但尽管如此，他的爱却是全镇人都知道的。每个人都或多或少地猜测他和卡列尼娜夫人的关系。大多数年轻人都嫉妒他，因为他的爱情中最令人讨厌的因素是卡列宁的崇高地位，以及随之而来的他们在社会上的关系的公开。

The greater number of the young women, who envied Anna and had long been weary of hearing her called virtuous, rejoiced at the fulfillment of their predictions, and were only waiting for a decisive turn in public opinion to fall upon her with all the weight of their scorn. They were already making ready their handfuls of mud to fling at her when the right moment arrived. The greater number of the middle-aged people and certain great personages were displeased at the prospect of the impending scandal in society.
更多的年轻女子嫉妒安娜，早已厌倦了听到她被称为贤惠，她们为她们的预言的实现而欣喜若狂，只等待公众舆论的决定性转变以全部的力量降临在她身上。他们的蔑视。他们已经准备好抓起一把泥巴，等时机一到就向她扔去。更多的中年人和某些大人物对社会上即将发生的丑闻感到不满。

Vronsky’s mother, on hearing of his connection, was at first pleased at it, because nothing to her mind gave such a finishing touch to a brilliant young man as a liaison in the highest society; she was pleased, too, that Madame Karenina, who had so taken her fancy, and had talked so much of her son, was, after all, just like all other pretty and well-bred women,—at least according to the Countess Vronskaya’s ideas. But she had heard of late that her son had refused a position offered him of great importance to his career, simply in order to remain in the regiment, where he could be constantly seeing Madame Karenina. She learned that great personages were displeased with him on this account, and she changed her opinion. She was vexed, too, that from all she could learn of this connection it was not that brilliant, graceful, worldly liaison which she would have welcomed, but a sort of Wertherish, desperate passion, so she was told, which might well lead him into imprudence. She had not seen him since his abrupt departure from Moscow, and she sent her elder son to bid him come to see her.
渥伦斯基的母亲一听说他的关系，一开始很高兴，因为在她看来，没有什么比上流社会的联络人更能对这位才华横溢的年轻人起到画龙点睛的作用了。她也很高兴卡列尼娜夫人如此喜欢她，并且对她的儿子说了很多话，毕竟，就像所有其他美丽而有教养的女人一样，至少根据渥伦斯卡娅伯爵夫人的说法想法。但她最近听说，她的儿子拒绝了一个对他的职业生涯非常重要的职位，只是为了留在团里，在那里他可以经常见到卡列尼娜夫人。她得知大人物因此而对他不满，她改变了看法。她也很烦恼，从她所能了解到的这种联系来看，这并不是她所欢迎的那种辉煌、优雅、世俗的联系，而是一种维特式的、绝望的激情，所以她被告知，这很可能会导致他变得轻率。自从他突然离开莫斯科后，她就再也没有见过他，于是她派大儿子来请他来看她。

This elder son, too, was displeased with his younger brother. He did not distinguish what sort of love his might be, big or little, passionate or passionless, lasting or passing (he kept a ballet girl himself, though he was the father of a family, so he was lenient in these matters), but he knew that this love affair was viewed with displeasure by those whom it was necessary to please, and therefore he did not approve of his brother’s conduct.
这个大儿子也对弟弟不满。他分不清自己的爱是什么样的，大的还是小的，热情的还是无热情的，持久的还是短暂的（他自己养了一个芭蕾舞女郎，虽然他是一个家庭的父亲，所以在这些事情上他是宽容的），但是他知道，那些需要取悦的人会对这段恋情感到不满，因此他不赞成他哥哥的行为。

Besides the service and society, Vronsky had another great interest—horses; he was passionately fond of horses.
除了服务和社交之外，渥伦斯基还有另一个很大的兴趣——马。他非常喜欢马。

That year races and a steeplechase had been arranged for the officers. Vronsky had put his name down, bought a thoroughbred English mare, and in spite of his love affair, he was looking forward to the races with intense, though reserved, excitement...
那一年，为军官们安排了比赛和障碍赛。渥伦斯基已经记下了自己的名字，买了一匹纯种英国母马，尽管他很爱他，但他仍然怀着强烈但保留的兴奋期待着比赛……

These two passions did not interfere with one another. On the contrary, he needed occupation and distraction quite apart from his love, so as to recruit and rest himself from the violent emotions that agitated him.
这两种激情并不互相干扰。相反，除了爱情之外，他还需要一些事情和消遣，以便让自己从激怒他的暴力情绪中恢复过来并得到休息。

Chapter 19
第19章

On the day of the races at Krasnoe Selo, Vronsky had come earlier than usual to eat beefsteak in the common messroom of the regiment. He had no need to be strict with himself, as he had very quickly been brought down to the required light weight; but still he had to avoid gaining flesh, and so he eschewed farinaceous and sweet dishes. He sat with his coat unbuttoned over a white waistcoat, resting both elbows on the table, and while waiting for the steak he had ordered he looked at a French novel that lay open on his plate. He was only looking at the book to avoid conversation with the officers coming in and out; he was thinking.
红村比赛那天，渥伦斯基比平常更早来到团的公共食堂吃牛排。他不需要严格要求自己，因为他很快就降到了要求的轻体重；但他仍然不得不避免长肉，因此他避开了淀粉类和甜食。他坐着，外套解开纽扣，套在白色背心上，双肘撑在桌子上，在等待他点的牛排时，他看着盘子里打开的一本法国小说。他只是看书，以避免与进出的军官交谈；他在想。

He was thinking of Anna’s promise to see him that day after the races. But he had not seen her for three days, and as her husband had just returned from abroad, he did not know whether she would be able to meet him today or not, and he did not know how to find out. He had had his last interview with her at his cousin Betsy’s summer villa. He visited the Karenins’ summer villa as rarely as possible. Now he wanted to go there, and he pondered the question how to do it.
他想起了安娜答应在赛后那天见到他的诺言。但他已经三天没见到她了，而她的丈夫也刚从国外回来，不知道她今天能否见到他，也不知道如何才能得知。他最后一次采访她是在他表弟贝特西的避暑别墅里。他尽可能少地参观卡列尼家族的避暑别墅。现在他想去那里，他思考着如何去那里的问题。

‘Of course I shall say Betsy has sent me to ask whether she’s coming to the races. Of course, I’ll go,’ he decided, lifting his head from the book. And as he vividly pictured the happiness of seeing her, his face lighted up.
“当然，我会说贝特西派我来询问她是否会来参加比赛。当然，我会去，”他从书本上抬起头，决定道。当他生动地描绘出见到她的幸福时，他的脸容光焕发。

‘Send to my house, and tell them to have out the carriage and three horses as quick as they can,’ he said to the servant, who handed him the steak on a hot silver dish, and moving the dish up he began eating.
“派人到我家去，告诉他们尽快把马车和三匹马拿出来，”他对仆人说。仆人把盛在热银盘子里的牛排递给他，他把盘子搬上来，开始吃起来。

From the billiard room next door came the sound of balls knocking, of talk and laughter. Two officers appeared at the entrance-door: one, a young fellow, with a feeble, delicate face, who had lately joined the regiment from the Corps of Pages; the other, a plump, elderly officer, with a bracelet on his wrist, and little eyes, lost in fat.
隔壁的台球室里传来了球的敲击声、谈话声和笑声。门口出现了两名军官：一名是个年轻小伙子，面容虚弱而精致，刚从侍从军团加入军团；另一名是一名年轻的小伙子，面容虚弱而精致，刚从侍从军团加入军团；另一名是一名军官，面色苍白。另一个是一位胖乎乎的老年军官，手腕上戴着一个手镯，一双小眼睛因脂肪而消失。

Vronsky glanced at them, frowned, and looking down at his book as though he had not noticed them, he proceeded to eat and read at the same time.
渥伦斯基看了他们一眼，皱起眉头，低头看着书，好像没有注意到他们一样，一边吃一边看书。

‘What? Fortifying yourself for your work?’ said the plump officer, sitting down beside him.
'什么？ “为了工作而强化自己？”胖军官在他旁边坐下说道。

‘As you see,’ responded Vronsky, knitting his brows, wiping his mouth, and not looking at the officer.
“如你所见，”渥伦斯基回答道，他皱着眉头，擦了擦嘴，没有看军官。

‘So you’re not afraid of getting fat?’ said the latter, turning a chair round for the young officer.
“这么说你不怕发胖？”后者说着，为年轻军官转动了一把椅子。

‘What?’ said Vronsky angrily, making a wry face of disgust, and showing his even teeth.
“什么？”渥伦斯基愤怒地说，脸上露出厌恶的表情，露出整齐的牙齿。

‘You’re not afraid of getting fat?’
“你不怕发胖吗？”

‘Waiter, sherry!’ said Vronsky, without replying, and moving the book to the other side of him, he went on reading.
“服务员，雪利酒！”渥伦斯基说道，没有回答，而是把书移到了另一边，继续读着。

The plump officer took up the list of wines and turned to the young officer.
胖军官拿起酒单，看向年轻军官。

‘You choose what we’re to drink,’ he said, handing him the card, and looking at him.
“你选择我们要喝什么，”他说，把卡片递给他，看着他。

‘Rhine wine, please,’ said the young officer, stealing a timid glance at Vronsky, and trying to pull his scarcely visible mustache. Seeing that Vronsky did not turn round, the young officer got up.
“拜托，莱茵酒。”年轻军官怯生生地瞥了渥伦斯基一眼，试图拔掉他那几乎看不见的小胡子。年轻军官见渥伦斯基没有回头，就站了起来。

‘Let’s go into the billiard room,’ he said.
“我们去台球室吧，”他说。

The plump officer rose submissively, and they moved towards the door.
胖军官恭顺地起身，两人向门口走去。

At that moment there walked into the room the tall and well-built Captain Yashvin. Nodding with an air of lofty contempt to the two officers, he went up to Vronsky.
就在这时，身材高大、体格健壮的亚什文上尉走进了房间。他带着一种崇高的蔑视态度向两位军官点了点头，然后走向渥伦斯基。

‘Ah! here he is!’ he cried, bringing his big hand down heavily on his epaulet. Vronsky looked round angrily, but his face lighted up immediately with his characteristic expression of genial and manly serenity.
'啊！他在这里！”他叫道，用大手重重地放在肩章上。渥伦斯基愤怒地环顾四周，但他的脸立即焕发出他特有的和蔼可亲、男子气概的平静表情。

‘That’s it, Alexey,’ said the captain, in his loud baritone. ‘You must just eat a mouthful, now, and drink only one tiny glass.’
“就是这样，阿列克谢，”船长用响亮的男中音说道。 “现在你必须只吃一口，只喝一小杯。”

‘Oh, I’m not hungry.’
“哦，我不饿。”

‘There go the inseparables,’ Yashvin dropped, glancing sarcastically at the two officers who were at that instant leaving the room. And he bent his long legs, swathed in tight riding breeches, and sat down in the chair, too low for him, so that his knees were cramped up in a sharp angle.
“形影不离的人走了。”亚什文讽刺地看了一眼正在离开房间的两名警官，低声说道。他弯曲着长腿，穿上紧身马裤，坐在椅子上，椅子对他来说太低了，所以他的膝盖被痉挛成一个锐角。

‘Why didn’t you turn up at the Red Theater yesterday? Numerova wasn’t at all bad. Where were you?’
‘你昨天怎么没来红剧场？努梅罗娃一点也不坏。当时你在哪里？'

‘I was late at the Tverskoys’,’ said Vronsky.
“我在特维尔家迟到了。”渥伦斯基说道。

‘Ah!’ responded Yashvin.
“啊！”亚什文回答道。

Yashvin, a gambler and a rake, a man not merely without moral principles, but of immoral principles, Yashvin was Vronsky’s greatest friend in the regiment. Vronsky liked him both for his exceptional physical strength, which he showed for the most part by being able to drink like a fish, and do without sleep without being in the slightest degree affected by it; and for his great strength of character, which he showed in his relations with his comrades and superior officers, commanding both fear and respect, and also at cards, when he would play for tens of thousands and however much he might have drunk, always with such skill and decision that he was reckoned the best player in the English Club. Vronsky respected and liked Yashvin particularly because he felt Yashvin liked him, not for his name and his money, but for himself. And of all men he was the only one with whom Vronsky would have liked to speak of his love. He felt that Yashvin, in spite of his apparent contempt for every sort of feeling, was the only man who could, so he fancied, comprehend the intense passion which now filled his whole life. Moreover, he felt certain that Yashvin, as it was, took no delight in gossip and scandal, and interpreted his feeling rightly, that is to say, knew and believed that this passion was not a jest, not a pastime, but something more serious and important.
亚什温是个赌徒和浪子，不仅没有道德原则，而且有不道德的原则，亚什温是渥伦斯基在团里最好的朋友。渥伦斯基之所以喜欢他，是因为他拥有非凡的体力，这在很大程度上体现在他能够像鱼一样喝水，并且不睡觉也不会受到任何影响。他的性格坚强有力，这在他与战友和上级的关系中表现出来，既让人敬畏，又让人尊敬；在打牌时，无论他喝了多少酒，他总是与数以万计的人打牌。他的技术和决策被认为是英格兰俱乐部中最好的球员。渥伦斯基特别尊重和喜欢亚什文，因为他觉得亚什文喜欢他，不是因为他的名字和金钱，而是因为他自己。在所有男人中，他是唯一一个渥伦斯基愿意与之谈论他的爱情的人。他觉得，尽管亚什文表面上蔑视各种感情，但他认为，他是唯一能够理解现在充满他一生的强烈激情的人。而且，他确信亚什温实际上并不喜欢流言蜚语和丑闻，并且正确地解释了他的感受，也就是说，他知道并相信这种激情不是玩笑，不是消遣，而是更严肃的事情。而且很重要。

Vronsky had never spoken to him of his passion, but he was aware that he knew all about it, and that he put the right interpretation on it, and he was glad to see that in his eyes.
渥伦斯基从未对他谈起过他的热情，但他知道他知道这一切，并且他对此做出了正确的解释，他很高兴在他的眼中看到这一点。

‘Ah! yes,’ he said, to the announcement that Vronsky had been at the Tverskoys’; and his black eyes shining, he plucked at his left mustache, and began twisting it into his mouth, a bad habit he had.
'啊！是的，”当得知渥伦斯基曾去过特维尔斯科伊家时，他说道。他的黑眼睛闪闪发亮，他拔掉左边的胡子，开始把它塞进嘴里，这是他的坏习惯。

‘Well, and what did you do yesterday? Win anything?’ asked Vronsky.
‘那么，你昨天做了什么？赢得什么？”渥伦斯基问道。

‘Eight thousand. But three don’t count; he won’t pay up.’
'八千。但三个不算数；他不会还钱的。

‘Oh, then you can afford to lose over me,’ said Vronsky, laughing. (Yashvin had bet heavily on Vronsky in the races.)
“哦，那你就输得起我了，”渥伦斯基笑着说。 （亚什文在比赛中对渥伦斯基下了重注。）

‘No chance of my losing. Mahotin’s the only one that’s risky.’
‘我没有失败的机会。马霍廷是唯一有风险的人。

And the conversation passed to forecasts of the coming race, the only thing Vronsky could think of just now.
谈话转到了对即将到来的比赛的预测，这是渥伦斯基现在唯一能想到的事情。

‘Come along, I’ve finished,’ said Vronsky, and getting up he went to the door. Yashvin got up too, stretching his long legs and his long back.
“走吧，我已经完成了。”渥伦斯基说着，起身向门口走去。亚什文也站了起来，伸展着他的长腿和长背。

‘It’s too early for me to dine, but I must have a drink. I’ll come along directly. Hi, wine!’ he shouted, in his rich voice, that always rang out so loudly at drill, and set the windows shaking now.
“现在吃饭还太早，但我必须喝一杯。”我就直接过去。嗨，酒！”他用他那在训练时总是响亮的声音喊道，现在窗户都摇晃起来了。

‘No, all right,’ he shouted again immediately after. ‘You’re going home, so I’ll go with you.’
“不，好吧，”他立即又喊道。 “你要回家，我也陪你一起去。”

And he walked out with Vronsky.
他和渥伦斯基一起走了出去。

Chapter 20
第20章

Vronsky was staying in a roomy, clean, Finnish hut, divided into two by a partition. Petritsky lived with him in camp too. Petritsky was asleep when Vronsky and Yashvin came into the hut.
渥伦斯基住在一间宽敞、干净的芬兰小屋里，小屋被隔板分成两部分。佩特里茨基也和他一起住在营地里。当渥伦斯基和亚什文走进小屋时，佩特里茨基正在睡觉。

‘Get up, don’t go on sleeping,’ said Yashvin, going behind the partition and giving Petritsky, who was lying with ruffled hair and with his nose in the pillow, a prod on the shoulder.
“起来吧，别再睡了。”亚什文说着，走到隔板后面，用力戳了一下佩特里茨基的肩膀。佩特里茨基头发乱糟糟地躺着，鼻子埋在枕头里。

Petritsky jumped up suddenly onto his knees and looked round.
佩特里茨基突然跳了起来，跪下，环顾四周。

‘Your brother’s been here,’ he said to Vronsky. ‘He waked me up, damn him, and said he’d look in again.’ And pulling up the rug he flung himself back on the pillow. ‘Oh, do shut up, Yashvin!’ he said, getting furious with Yashvin, who was pulling the rug off him. ‘Shut up!’ He turned over and opened his eyes. ‘You’d better tell me what to drink; such a nasty taste in my mouth, that...’
“你哥哥来过这里，”他对渥伦斯基说。 “他把我叫醒了，该死的，他说他要再进去看看。”然后拉起地毯，他又倒在枕头上。 “哦，闭嘴，亚什文！”他说，对亚什文的行为感到愤怒，因为亚什文从他身上拉开了地毯。 “闭嘴！”他翻身睁开眼睛。 ‘你最好告诉我该喝什么；我嘴里有一股难闻的味道，所以……”

‘Brandy’s better than anything,’ boomed Yashvin. ‘Tereshtchenko! brandy for your master and cucumbers,’ he shouted, obviously taking pleasure in the sound of his own voice.
“白兰地比任何东西都好，”亚什文大声说道。捷列先科！为你的主人和黄瓜喝白兰地，”他喊道，显然很高兴自己的声音。

‘Brandy, do you think? Eh?’ queried Petritsky, blinking and rubbing his eyes. ‘And you’ll drink something? All right then, we’ll have a drink together! Vronsky, have a drink?’ said Petritsky, getting up and wrapping the tiger-skin rug round him. He went to the door of the partition wall, raised his hands, and hummed in French, ‘There was a king in Thule.’ ‘Vronsky, will you have a drink?’
‘白兰地，你觉得呢？呃？”佩特里茨基问道，他眨着眼睛，揉着眼睛。 ‘那你要喝点东西吗？好吧，那我们一起喝一杯吧！渥伦斯基，喝一杯吗？”佩特里茨基站起来，用虎皮地毯裹住了自己。他走到隔墙门口，举起双手，用法语哼唱道：“图勒有一位国王。”“渥伦斯基，你要喝一杯吗？”

‘Go along,’ said Vronsky, putting on the coat his valet handed to him.
“走吧，”渥伦斯基说着，穿上了贴身男仆递给他的外套。

‘Where are you off to?’ asked Yashvin. ‘Oh, here are your three horses,’ he added, seeing the carriage drive up.
“你要去哪里？”亚什文问道。 “哦，这是你的三匹马，”看到马车驶来，他补充道。

‘To the stables, and I’ve got to see Bryansky, too, about the horses,’ said Vronsky.
“去马厩，我还得去见布良斯基，讨论一下马匹的事。”渥伦斯基说道。

Vronsky had as a fact promised to call at Bryansky’s, some eight miles from Peterhof, and to bring him some money owing for some horses; and he hoped to have time to get that in too. But his comrades were at once aware that he was not only going there.
事实上，渥伦斯基答应去距彼得霍夫约八英里的布良斯基家，给他带来一些马匹欠款。他也希望有时间把它也说进去。但他的战友们立刻意识到他不仅仅要去那里。

Petritsky, still humming, winked and made a pout with his lips, as though he would say: ‘Oh, yes, we know your Bryansky.’
佩特里茨基仍在哼着歌，眨了眨眼睛，撅起嘴唇，好像他会说：“哦，是的，我们认识你的布良斯基。”

‘Mind you’re not late!’ was Yashvin’s only comment; and to change the conversation: ‘How’s my roan? is he doing all right?’ he inquired, looking out of the window at the middle one of the three horses, which he had sold Vronsky.
“注意你没有迟到！”这是亚什文唯一的评论。并改变话题：‘我的马毛怎么样？他还好吗？”他看着窗外三匹马中中间的一匹，问道，那匹马是他卖给渥伦斯基的。

‘Stop!’ cried Petritsky to Vronsky as he was just going out. ‘Your brother left a letter and a note for you. Wait a bit; where are they?’
“站住！”佩特里茨基在渥伦斯基正要出去时对他喊道。 “你哥哥给你留下了一封信和一张纸条。稍等一会;他们在哪里？'

Vronsky stopped.
渥伦斯基停了下来。

‘Well, where are they?’
“那么，他们在哪儿呢？”

‘Where are they? That’s just the question!’ said Petritsky solemnly, moving his forefinger upwards from his nose.
'他们在哪里？这就是问题所在！”佩特里茨基一边严肃地说，一边将食指从鼻子上向上移。

‘Come, tell me; this is silly!’ said Vronsky smiling.
‘来吧，告诉我；这太愚蠢了！”渥伦斯基微笑着说道。

‘I have not lighted the fire. Here somewhere about.’
‘我没有生火。就在这儿附近的某个地方。

‘Come, enough fooling! Where is the letter?’
‘来吧，够傻了！信在哪里？

‘No, I’ve forgotten really. Or was it a dream? Wait a bit, wait a bit! But what’s the use of getting in a rage. If you’d drunk four bottles yesterday as I did you’d forget where you were lying. Wait a bit, I’ll remember!’
‘不，我真的忘记了。或者这是一个梦？等一下，等一下！但生气有什么用呢。如果你昨天像我一样喝了四瓶酒，你就会忘记自己躺在哪里。等一下，我会记住的！

Petritsky went behind the partition and lay down on his bed.
佩特里茨基走到隔板后面，躺在床上。

‘Wait a bit! This was how I was lying, and this was how he was standing. Yes—yes—yes.... Here it is!’—and Petritsky pulled a letter out from under the mattress, where he had hidden it.
'稍等一会！我是这样说谎的，他也是这样站着的。是的——是的——是的……就在这里！’——佩特里茨基从床垫下拿出一封信，他把它藏在那里。

Vronsky took the letter and his brother’s note. It was the letter he was expecting—from his mother, reproaching him for not having been to see her—and the note was from his brother to say that he must have a little talk with him. Vronsky knew that it was all about the same thing. ‘What business is it of theirs!’ thought Vronsky, and crumpling up the letters he thrust them between the buttons of his coat so as to read them carefully on the road. In the porch of the hut he was met by two officers; one of his regiment and one of another.
渥伦斯基接过这封信和他哥哥的便条。这正是他所期待的信——来自他母亲，责备他没有去看她——而那张字条是他哥哥写来的，说他必须和他谈谈。渥伦斯基知道这都是同一件事。 “关他们什么事！”渥伦斯基想道，一边把信揉成一团，塞进外套纽扣之间，以便在路上仔细阅读。在小屋的门廊里，两名军官迎接了他。他的一个团和另一个团的一个。

Vronsky’s quarters were always a meeting place for all the officers.
渥伦斯基的宿舍一直是所有军官的聚会场所。

‘Where are you off to?’
'你要去哪里？'

‘I must go to Peterhof.’
“我必须去彼得夏宫。”

‘Has the mare come from Tsarskoe?’
“这匹母马来自沙皇吗？”

‘Yes, but I’ve not seen her yet.’
“是的，但我还没见过她。”

‘They say Mahotin’s Gladiator’s lame.’
“他们说马霍丁的角斗士是蹩脚的。”

‘Nonsense! But however are you going to race in this mud?’ said the other.
'废话！但是你要在这泥浆里比赛吗？”另一个人问道。

‘Here are my saviors!’ cried Petritsky, seeing them come in. Before him stood the orderly with a tray of brandy and salted cucumbers. ‘Here’s Yashvin ordering me to drink a pick-me-up.’
“这是我的救星！”看到他们进来，彼得里茨基喊道。他面前站着勤务兵，端着一盘白兰地和咸黄瓜。 “亚什文命令我喝一杯提神饮料。”

‘Well, you did give it to us yesterday,’ said one of those who had come in; ‘you didn’t let us get a wink of sleep all night.’
“好吧，你昨天确实把它给了我们，”进来的一个人说道。 “你一整夜都没让我们合眼。”

‘Oh, didn’t we make a pretty finish!’ said Petritsky. ‘Volkov climbed onto the roof and began telling us how sad he was. I said: ‘Let’s have music, the funeral march!’ He fairly dropped asleep on the roof over the funeral march.’
“噢，我们的结局不是很漂亮吗！”佩特里茨基说道。 “沃尔科夫爬上屋顶，开始告诉我们他有多悲伤。我说：“让我们听音乐，葬礼进行曲！”他在葬礼进行曲的屋顶上睡着了。

‘Drink it up; you positively must drink the brandy, and then seltzer water and a lot of lemon,’ said Yashvin, standing over Petritsky like a mother making a child take medicine, ‘and then a little champagne—just a small bottle.’
'喝完它; “你一定要喝白兰地，然后是苏打水和大量的柠檬，”亚什文站在佩特里茨基身边说，就像母亲让孩子吃药一样，“然后喝一点香槟——就一小瓶。”

‘Come, there’s some sense in that. Stop a bit, Vronsky. We’ll all have a drink.’
‘好吧，这有一定道理。停一下，渥伦斯基。我们都喝一杯。

‘No; good-bye all of you. I’m not going to drink today.’
'不;再见了大家。我今天不喝酒。

‘Why, are you gaining weight? All right, then we must have it alone. Give us the seltzer water and lemon.’
‘怎么，你体重增加了吗？好吧，那我们就得独处了。给我们苏打水和柠檬。”

‘Vronsky!’ shouted someone when he was already outside.
“渥伦斯基！”当他已经走到外面时，有人喊道。

‘Well?’
'出色地？'

‘You’d better get your hair cut, it’ll weigh you down, especially at the top.’
“你最好把头发剪掉，它会让你很重，尤其是头顶。”

Vronsky was in fact beginning, prematurely, to get a little bald. He laughed gaily, showing his even teeth, and pulling his cap over the thin place, went out and got into his carriage.
事实上，渥伦斯基过早地开始有点秃头了。他欢快地笑起来，露出整齐的牙齿，把帽子拉在瘦弱的地方，走出去，上了马车。

‘To the stables!’ he said, and was just pulling out the letters to read them through, but he thought better of it, and put off reading them so as not to distract his attention before looking at the mare. ‘Later!’
“去马厩！”他说着，正想把信拿出来读一读，但他又想了想，推迟了读信的时间，以免在看向母马之前分散自己的注意力。 '之后！'

Chapter 21
第21章

The temporary stable, a wooden shed, had been put up close to the race course, and there his mare was to have been taken the previous day. He had not yet seen her there.
临时马厩是一个木棚，建在赛马场附近，他的母马前一天就被带到那里。他还没有在那里见过她。

During the last few days he had not ridden her out for exercise himself, but had put her in the charge of the trainer, and so now he positively did not know in what condition his mare had arrived yesterday and was today. He had scarcely got out of his carriage when his groom, the so-called ‘stable boy,’ recognizing the carriage some way off, called the trainer. A dry-looking Englishman, in high boots and a short jacket, clean-shaven, except for a tuft below his chin, came to meet him, walking with the uncouth gait of jockey, turning his elbows out and swaying from side to side.
这几天他并没有亲自骑着她出去锻炼，而是让驯马师负责照顾，所以现在他根本不知道自己的母马昨天到了，今天又是什么状况。他刚下马车，他的马夫，即所谓的“马童”，认出了远处的马车，就给驯马师打电话。一个看上去干巴巴的英国人，穿着高筒靴和短夹克，胡子刮得干干净净，除了下巴下面有一簇胡须，他走过来迎接他，他以骑师的粗鲁步态行走，双肘向外，左右摇摆。

‘Well, how’s Frou-Frou?’ Vronsky asked in English.
“嗯，弗鲁弗鲁怎么样？”渥伦斯基用英语问道。

‘All right, sir,’ the Englishman’s voice responded somewhere in the inside of his throat. ‘Better not go in,’ he added, touching his hat. ‘I’ve put a muzzle on her, and the mare’s fidgety. Better not go in, it’ll excite the mare.’
“好吧，先生，”英国人的声音在他喉咙里的某个地方回应道。 “最好不要进去，”他摸着帽子补充道。 “我给她戴上了口套，而母马却坐立不安。最好不要进去，这会让母马兴奋。”

‘No, I’m going in. I want to look at her.’
“不，我要进去。我想看看她。”

‘Come along, then,’ said the Englishman, frowning, and speaking with his mouth shut, and, with swinging elbows, he went on in front with his disjointed gait.
“那么，走吧。”英国人皱着眉头，闭着嘴说道，然后摇着胳膊，迈着杂乱的步态继续走在前面。

They went into the little yard in front of the shed. A stable boy, spruce and smart in his holiday attire, met them with a broom in his hand, and followed them. In the shed there were five horses in their separate stalls, and Vronsky knew that his chief rival, Gladiator, a very tall chestnut horse, had been brought there, and must be standing among them. Even more than his mare, Vronsky longed to see Gladiator, whom he had never seen. But he knew that by the etiquette of the race course it was not merely impossible for him to see the horse, but improper even to ask questions about him. Just as he was passing along the passage, the boy opened the door into the second horse-box on the left, and Vronsky caught a glimpse of a big chestnut horse with white legs. He knew that this was Gladiator, but, with the feeling of a man turning away from the sight of another man’s open letter, he turned round and went into Frou-Frou’s stall.
他们走进棚屋前的小院子。一个穿着节日服装的马厩男孩迎接他们，手里拿着扫帚，跟着他们。棚子里有五匹马，分别放在不同的马厩里，渥伦斯基知道他的主要竞争对手角斗士，一匹很高的栗色马，被带到了那里，而且一定站在它们中间。渥伦斯基比他的母马更渴望见到他从未见过的角斗士。但他知道，根据赛马场的礼仪，他不仅不可能看到这匹马，而且甚至询问有关它的问题也是不合适的。正当他经过通道时，男孩打开了左边第二个马箱的门，渥伦斯基瞥见了一匹栗色的大马，腿是白色的。他知道这是角斗士，但他带着一种看到另一个人的公开信就转身离开的感觉，转身走进了弗鲁弗鲁的摊位。

‘The horse is here belonging to Mak...Mak...I never can say the name,’ said the Englishman, over his shoulder, pointing his big finger and dirty nail towards Gladiator’s stall.
“这匹马属于麦……麦……我永远说不出名字，”英国人回头说道，用他的大手指和肮脏的指甲指着角斗士的马厩。

‘Mahotin? Yes, he’s my most serious rival,’ said Vronsky.
‘马霍廷？是的，他是我最重要的对手，”渥伦斯基说。

‘If you were riding him,’ said the Englishman, ‘I’d bet on you.’
“如果你骑着他，”英国人说，“我就赌你。”

‘Frou-Frou’s more nervous; he’s stronger,’ said Vronsky, smiling at the compliment to his riding.
‘芙洛芙洛更紧张了； “他更强壮了。”渥伦斯基微笑着说道。

‘In a steeplechase it all depends on riding and on pluck,’ said the Englishman.
“在障碍赛中，一切都取决于骑术和勇气，”英国人说。

Of pluck—that is, energy and courage—Vronsky did not merely feel that he had enough; what was of far more importance, he was firmly convinced that no one in the world could have more of this ‘pluck’ than he had.
勇气——即精力和勇气——渥伦斯基不仅觉得自己已经受够了，而且还觉得自己已经受够了。更重要的是，他坚信世界上没有人比他拥有更多的“勇气”。

‘Don’t you think I want more thinning down?’
“你不认为我想要进一步瘦身吗？”

‘Oh, no,’ answered the Englishman. ‘Please, don’t speak loud. The mare’s fidgety,’ he added, nodding towards the horse-box, before which they were standing, and from which came the sound of restless stamping in the straw.
“哦，不，”英国人回答道。 ‘请不要大声说话。母马烦躁不安，”他补充道，朝他们站在马箱前的马箱点点头，马箱里传来不安的踩稻草的声音。

He opened the door, and Vronsky went into the horse-box, dimly lighted by one little window. In the horse-box stood a dark bay mare, with a muzzle on, picking at the fresh straw with her hoofs. Looking round him in the twilight of the horse-box, Vronsky unconsciously took in once more in a comprehensive glance all the points of his favorite mare. Frou-Frou was a beast of medium size, not altogether free from reproach, from a breeder’s point of view. She was small-boned all over; though her chest was extremely prominent in front, it was narrow. Her hind-quarters were a little drooping, and in her fore-legs, and still more in her hind-legs, there was a noticeable curvature. The muscles of both hindand fore-legs were not very thick; but across her shoulders the mare was exceptionally broad, a peculiarity specially striking now that she was lean from training. The bones of her legs below the knees looked no thicker than a finger from in front, but were extraordinarily thick seen from the side. She looked altogether, except across the shoulders, as it were, pinched in at the sides and pressed out in depth. But she had in the highest degree the quality that makes all defects forgotten: that quality was blood, the blood that tells, as the English expression has it. The muscles stood up sharply under the network of sinews, covered with the delicate, mobile skin, soft as satin, and they were hard as bone. Her clean-cut head, with prominent, bright, spirited eyes, broadened out at the open nostrils, that showed the red blood in the cartilage within. About all her figure, and especially her head, there was a certain expression of energy, and, at the same time, of softness. She was one of those creatures which seem only not to speak because the mechanism of their mouth does not allow them to.
他打开门，渥伦斯基走进马车，一扇小窗户发出昏暗的灯光。马厩里站着一匹深色的海湾母马，它套着马口，用蹄子啃着新鲜的稻草。在马棚的暮色中，渥伦斯基环顾四周，无意识地再次全面审视了他最喜爱的母马的所有优点。弗鲁弗鲁是一种中等体型的野兽，从饲养员的角度来看，它并非完全没有受到责备。她全身骨骼细小；她的胸部虽然正面极其突出，但却很窄。她的后躯有些下垂，前腿，尤其是后腿，都有着明显的弧度。后腿和前腿的肌肉都不是很厚实；但母马的肩部异常宽阔，由于训练后她变得瘦弱，这一特点尤其引人注目。膝盖以下的腿骨，正面看不过指粗，但侧面看却异常粗壮。她看起来很完整，除了肩膀之外，可以说，两侧收紧，深度压出。但她具有最高程度的使所有缺陷被遗忘的品质：这种品质就是血统，正如英语表达那样，血统会说话。肌筋网下的肌肉急剧竖起，覆盖着细腻可动的皮肤，柔软如缎，坚硬如骨。她的头颅轮廓分明，眼睛突出，明亮而充满活力，鼻孔张开，露出里面软骨里的红色血液。她的整个身材，尤其是她的头部，都流露出某种活力，同时又显得柔和。 她是那些似乎不会说话的生物之一，因为他们的嘴的机制不允许他们说话。

To Vronsky, at any rate, it seemed that she understood all he felt at that moment, looking at her.
无论如何，对渥伦斯基来说，她似乎理解他看着她那一刻的所有感受。

Directly Vronsky went towards her, she drew in a deep breath, and, turning back her prominent eye till the white looked bloodshot, she started at the approaching figures from the opposite side, shaking her muzzle, and shifting lightly from one leg to the other.
渥伦斯基一朝她走来，她深深地吸了一口气，然后把她突出的眼睛转回来，直到白色看起来充满血丝，她开始看着对面走来的人影，摇动她的口鼻，轻轻地从一条腿换到另一条腿。

‘There, you see how fidgety she is,’ said the Englishman.
“瞧，你看她有多烦躁，”英国人说。

‘There, darling! There!’ said Vronsky, going up to the mare and speaking soothingly to her.
‘那儿，亲爱的！那里！”渥伦斯基走到母马跟前，安慰她说。

But the nearer he came, the more excited she grew. Only when he stood by her head, she was suddenly quieter, while the muscles quivered under her soft, delicate coat. Vronsky patted her strong neck, straightened over her sharp withers a stray lock of her mane that had fallen on the other side, and moved his face near her dilated nostrils, transparent as a bat’s wing. She drew a loud breath and snorted out through her tense nostrils, started, pricked up her sharp ear, and put out her strong, black lip towards Vronsky, as though she would nip hold of his sleeve. But remembering the muzzle, she shook it and again began restlessly stamping one after the other her shapely legs.
但他越靠近，她就越兴奋。只是当他站在她的头边时，她突然安静了一些，而柔软细腻的皮毛下的肌肉却在颤抖。渥伦斯基拍拍她强壮的脖子，把落在另一侧的一缕鬃毛在她尖锐的马肩隆上拉直，然后把脸移到她扩张的鼻孔附近，鼻孔像蝙蝠的翅膀一样透明。她大声吸了一口气，从紧绷的鼻孔里喷出一口鼻息，吓了一跳，竖起了尖尖的耳朵，向渥伦斯基伸出了有力的黑色嘴唇，仿佛要咬住他的袖子。但她想起了枪口，摇了摇头，又开始不安地跺着她那条匀称的腿。

‘Quiet, darling, quiet!’ he said, patting her again over her hind-quarters; and with a glad sense that his mare was in the best possible condition, he went out of the horse-box.
“安静，亲爱的，安静！”他一边说，一边再次拍拍她的后躯。他很高兴地意识到他的母马处于最好的状态，于是他走出了马箱。

The mare’s excitement had infected Vronsky. He felt that his heart was throbbing, and that he, too, like the mare, longed to move, to bite; it was both dreadful and delicious.
母马的兴奋感染了渥伦斯基。他感到自己的心在跳动，他也像母马一样渴望动弹，渴望咬人。它既可怕又美味。

‘Well, I rely on you, then,’ he said to the Englishman; ‘half-past six on the ground.’
“好吧，那我就靠你了，”他对英国人说。 “六点半在地上。”

‘All right,’ said the Englishman. ‘Oh, where are you going, my lord?’ he asked suddenly, using the title ‘my lord,’ which he had scarcely ever used before.
“好吧，”英国人说。 “哦，您要去哪里，大人？”他突然问道，用的是“大人”这个头衔，而他以前几乎从未用过这个称呼。

Vronsky in amazement raised his head, and stared, as he knew how to stare, not into the Englishman’s eyes, but at his forehead, astounded at the impertinence of his question. But realizing that in asking this the Englishman had been looking at him not as an employer, but as a jockey, he answered:
渥伦斯基惊讶地抬起头，他知道如何凝视，不是盯着英国人的眼睛，而是盯着他的额头，对他的问题的无礼感到惊讶。但意识到英国人问这个问题时并没有把他视为雇主，而是将他视为骑师，他回答道：

‘I’ve got to go to Bryansky’s; I shall be home within an hour.’
“我得去布良斯基家；我一小时内就到家了。”

‘How often I’m asked that question today!’ he said to himself, and he blushed, a thing which rarely happened to him. The Englishman looked gravely at him; and, as though he, too, knew where Vronsky was going, he added:
“今天我多少次被问到这个问题了！”他自言自语道，他脸红了，这种事情很少发生在他身上。英国人严肃地看着他。他补充道，好像他也知道渥伦斯基要去哪里一样：

‘The great thing’s to keep quiet before a race,’ said he; ‘don’t get out of temper or upset about anything.’
“最重要的是在比赛前保持安静，”他说。 “不要对任何事情发脾气或心烦意乱。”

‘All right,’ answered Vronsky, smiling; and jumping into his carriage, he told the man to drive to Peterhof.
“好吧，”渥伦斯基微笑着回答。他跳上马车，吩咐那人开车去彼得夏宫。

Before he had driven many paces away, the dark clouds that had been threatening rain all day broke, and there was a heavy downpour of rain.
还没开出几步，一整天都在下雨的乌云就散了，倾盆大雨倾盆而下。

‘What a pity!’ thought Vronsky, putting up the roof of the carriage. ‘It was muddy before, now it will be a perfect swamp.’ As he sat in solitude in the closed carriage, he took out his mother’s letter and his brother’s note, and read them through.
“真遗憾！”渥伦斯基一边想，一边把车顶盖起来。 “以前是泥泞，现在是完美的沼泽。”他孤独地坐在封闭的马车里，拿出母亲的信和哥哥的字条，读了一遍。

Yes, it was the same thing over and over again. Everyone, his mother, his brother, everyone thought fit to interfere in the affairs of his heart. This interference aroused in him a feeling of angry hatred—a feeling he had rarely known before. ‘What business is it of theirs? Why does everybody feel called upon to concern himself about me? And why do they worry me so? Just because they see that this is something they can’t understand. If it were a common, vulgar, worldly intrigue, they would have left me alone. They feel that this is something different, that this is not a mere pastime, that this woman is dearer to me than life. And this is incomprehensible, and that’s why it annoys them. Whatever our destiny is or may be, we have made it ourselves, and we do not complain of it,’ he said, in the word we linking himself with Anna. ‘No, they must needs teach us how to live. They haven’t an idea of what happiness is; they don’t know that without our love, for us there is neither happiness nor unhappiness—no life at all,’ he thought.
是的，同样的事情一遍又一遍地发生。每个人，他的母亲，他的兄弟，每个人都认为适合干涉他内心的事情。这种干扰，让他心中升起了一种愤怒的仇恨感——一种他以前很少有过的感觉。 ‘关他们什么事？为什么每个人都觉得有必要关心我？为什么他们让我这么担心？只因为他们看到这是他们无法理解的事情。如果这是一个普通的、粗俗的、世俗的阴谋，他们就会放过我。他们觉得这是不同的东西，这不仅仅是一种消遣，这个女人对我来说比生命还珍贵。这是无法理解的，这就是为什么他们感到恼火。无论我们的命运是什么或可能是什么，都是我们自己创造的，我们不会抱怨它，”他说，用这个词我们将自己与安娜联系起来。 “不，他们一定需要教我们如何生活。他们不知道什么是幸福；他们不知道，没有我们的爱，对我们来说，既没有幸福，也没有不幸福——根本就没有生命，”他想。

He was angry with all of them for their interference just because he felt in his soul that they, all these people, were right. He felt that the love that bound him to Anna was not a momentary impulse, which would pass, as worldly intrigues do pass, leaving no other traces in the life of either but pleasant or unpleasant memories. He felt all the torture of his own and her position, all the difficulty there was for them, conspicuous as they were in the eye of all the world, in concealing their love, in lying and deceiving; and in lying, deceiving, feigning, and continually thinking of others, when the passion that united them was so intense that they were both oblivious of everything else but their love.
他对他们所有人的干涉感到愤怒，只是因为他在灵魂中感到他们，所有这些人，都是对的。他觉得将他与安娜联系在一起的爱情并不是一时的冲动，它会像世俗的阴谋一样过去，除了愉快或不愉快的回忆之外，在生活中不会留下任何其他痕迹。他感受到了他自己和她的地位所带来的所有折磨，以及他们所面临的所有困难，尽管他们在全世界的眼中都很引人注目，但他们隐藏着他们的爱，撒谎和欺骗；当将他们团结在一起的激情如此强烈时，他们除了爱情之外，都忘记了其他一切。

He vividly recalled all the constantly recurring instances of inevitable necessity for lying and deceit, which were so against his natural bent. He recalled particularly vividly the shame he had more than once detected in her at this necessity for lying and deceit. And he experienced the strange feeling that had sometimes come upon him since his secret love for Anna. This was a feeling of loathing for something—whether for Alexey Alexandrovitch, or for himself, or for the whole world, he could not have said. But he always drove away this strange feeling. Now, too, he shook it off and continued the thread of his thoughts.
他生动地回忆起所有不断重复出现的不可避免的撒谎和欺骗的情况，这与他的天性相悖。他清楚地记得，他不止一次地在她身上发现了这种撒谎和欺骗的必要性所带来的羞耻感。他体验到了自从暗恋安娜以来时常出现的奇怪感觉。这是一种对某种东西的厌恶感——无论是对阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇，还是对他自己，还是对整个世界，他都说不出来。但他总是赶走这种奇怪的感觉。现在，他也摆脱了这种想法，继续思考。

‘Yes, she was unhappy before, but proud and at peace; and now she cannot be at peace and feel secure in her dignity, though she does not show it. Yes, we must put an end to it,’ he decided.
是的，她以前并不快乐，但骄傲而平静；现在她无法平静，也无法感到自己的尊严有保障，尽管她没有表现出来。是的，我们必须结束它，”他决定。

And for the first time the idea clearly presented itself that it was essential to put an end to this false position, and the sooner the better. ‘Throw up everything, she and I, and hide ourselves somewhere alone with our love,’ he said to himself.
这是第一次清楚地表明，必须结束这种错误立场，而且越早越好。 “我和她，抛开一切，带着我们的爱，独自藏在某个地方，”他对自己说。

Chapter 22
第22章

The rain did not last long, and by the time Vronsky arrived, his shaft-horse trotting at full speed and dragging the trace-horses galloping through the mud, with their reins hanging loose, the sun had peeped out again, the roofs of the summer villas and the old limetrees in the gardens on both sides of the principal streets sparkled with wet brilliance, and from the twigs came a pleasant drip and from the roofs rushing streams of water. He thought no more of the shower spoiling the race course, but was rejoicing now that—thanks to the rain—he would be sure to find her at home and alone, as he knew that Alexey Alexandrovitch, who had lately returned from a foreign watering place, had not moved from Petersburg.
雨并没有持续多久，当渥伦斯基到达时，他的辕马全速小跑，拖着缰绳松散的拖曳马在泥泞中驰骋，太阳又露出来了，屋顶夏季别墅和主要街道两侧花园里的老椴树闪闪发光，树枝上滴下令人愉悦的水滴，屋顶上流淌着潺潺的水流。他不再认为阵雨会破坏赛马场，但现在很高兴——多亏了这场雨——他一定会在家里找到她，而且是独自一人，因为他知道阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇最近刚从国外浇水归来。这个地方，还没有从彼得堡搬走。

Hoping to find her alone, Vronsky alighted, as he always did, to avoid attracting attention, before crossing the bridge, and walked to the house. He did not go up the steps to the street door, but went into the court.
渥伦斯基希望能单独找到她，他像往常一样下了车，以免引起注意，然后过桥，朝房子走去。他没有走上台阶到临街门口，而是走进了庭院。

‘Has your master come?’ he asked a gardener.
“你的主人来了吗？”他问园丁。

‘No, sir. The mistress is at home. But will you please go to the front door; there are servants there,’ the gardener answered. ‘They’ll open the door.’
'不，先生。女主人在家。但是请您到前门去好吗？那里有仆人。”园丁回答道。 “他们会开门的。”

‘No, I’ll go in from the garden.’
“不，我要从花园进去。”

And feeling satisfied that she was alone, and wanting to take her by surprise, since he had not promised to be there today, and she would certainly not expect him to come before the races, he walked, holding his sword and stepping cautiously over the sandy path, bordered with flowers, to the terrace that looked out upon the garden. Vronsky forgot now all that he had thought on the way of the hardships and difficulties of their position. He thought of nothing but that he would see her directly, not in imagination, but living, all of her, as she was in reality. He was just going in, stepping on his whole foot so as not to creak, up the worn steps of the terrace, when he suddenly remembered what he always forgot, and what caused the most torturing side of his relations with her, her son with his questioning—hostile, as he fancied—eyes.
他对她独自一人感到满意，并想给她一个惊喜，因为他没有答应今天会去那里，而且她肯定不会指望他会在比赛前来，他走着，握着剑，小心翼翼地跨过马路。铺满鲜花的沙质小路通向俯瞰花园的露台。渥伦斯基现在已经忘记了他所想到的一切，以及他们所处地位的艰辛和困难。他只想着能直接看到她，不是在想象中，而是活生生的，看到她的全部，就像现实中的她一样。他正要走进去，用整只脚踩着露台破旧的台阶，以免发出吱吱声，这时他突然想起了他一直忘记的事情，以及是什么导致了他与她的关系中最痛苦的一面，她的儿子和他询问的——正如他想象的那样——充满敌意的眼睛。

This boy was more often than anyone else a check upon their freedom. When he was present, both Vronsky and Anna did not merely avoid speaking of anything that they could not have repeated before everyone; they did not even allow themselves to refer by hints to anything the boy did not understand. They had made no agreement about this, it had settled itself. They would have felt it wounding themselves to deceive the child. In his presence they talked like acquaintances. But in spite of this caution, Vronsky often saw the child’s intent, bewildered glance fixed upon him, and a strange shyness, uncertainty, at one time friendliness, at another, coldness and reserve, in the boy’s manner to him; as though the child felt that between this man and his mother there existed some important bond, the significance of which he could not understand.
这个男孩比任何人都更经常地限制他们的自由。当他在场时，渥伦斯基和安娜不仅避免谈论任何她们无法在所有人面前重复的事情，而且还避免谈论任何他们无法在所有人面前重复的事情。他们甚至不允许自己通过暗示提及男孩不明白的任何事情。他们没有就此达成协议，事情已经解决了。他们会觉得欺骗孩子是对自己的伤害。在他面前，他们像熟人一样交谈。尽管如此谨慎，渥伦斯基还是经常看到孩子用专注而困惑的目光注视着他，孩子对他的态度里有一种奇怪的害羞、不确定，时而友善，时而冷漠和矜持；就好像孩子觉得这个人和他的母亲之间存在某种重要的联系，但他无法理解这种联系的意义。

As a fact, the boy did feel that he could not understand this relation, and he tried painfully, and was not able to make clear to himself what feeling he ought to have for this man. With a child’s keen instinct for every manifestation of feeling, he saw distinctly that his father, his governess, his nurse,—all did not merely dislike Vronsky, but looked on him with horror and aversion, though they never said anything about him, while his mother looked on him as her greatest friend.
事实上，男孩确实觉得自己无法理解这种关系，他痛苦地尝试着，也无法弄清楚自己应该对这个男人抱有怎样的感情。凭借孩子对每一种情感表现的敏锐本能，他清楚地看到他的父亲、他的家庭教师、他的保姆——所有人不仅不喜欢渥伦斯基，而且用恐惧和厌恶的目光看着他，尽管他们从未说过任何关于他的事，而他的母亲把他视为她最好的朋友。

‘What does it mean? Who is he? How ought I to love him? If I don’t know, it’s my fault; either I’m stupid or a naughty boy,’ thought the child. And this was what caused his dubious, inquiring, sometimes hostile, expression, and the shyness and uncertainty which Vronsky found so irksome. This child’s presence always and infallibly called up in Vronsky that strange feeling of inexplicable loathing which he had experienced of late. This child’s presence called up both in Vronsky and in Anna a feeling akin to the feeling of a sailor who sees by the compass that the direction in which he is swiftly moving is far from the right one, but that to arrest his motion is not in his power, that every instant is carrying him further and further away, and that to admit to himself his deviation from the right direction is the same as admitting his certain ruin.
'这是什么意思？他是谁？我该如何爱他？如果我不知道，那是我的错； “要么我是个傻子，要么是个顽皮的孩子。”孩子想。这就是他表现出怀疑、询问、有时充满敌意的表情，以及害羞和不确定的原因，渥伦斯基觉得这令人厌烦。这个孩子的出现总是无误地唤起了渥伦斯基的一种奇怪的、莫名其妙的厌恶感，这种感觉是他最近经历过的。这个孩子的出现在渥伦斯基和安娜身上唤起了一种类似于水手的感觉，他通过指南针看到自己快速移动的方向与正确的方向相距甚远，但阻止他的运动却并不可行。他的力量，每一瞬间都把他带得越来越远，承认自己偏离了正确的方向就等于承认自己注定要毁灭。

This child, with his innocent outlook upon life, was the compass that showed them the point to which they had departed from what they knew, but did not want to know.
这个有着天真的人生观的孩子就像一个指南针，向他们展示了他们已经偏离了他们所知道但又不想知道的地方。

This time Seryozha was not at home, and she was completely alone. She was sitting on the terrace waiting for the return of her son, who had gone out for his walk and been caught in the rain. She had sent a manservant and a maid out to look for him. Dressed in a white gown, deeply embroidered, she was sitting in a corner of the terrace behind some flowers, and did not hear him. Bending her curly black head, she pressed her forehead against a cool watering pot that stood on the parapet, and both her lovely hands, with the rings he knew so well, clasped the pot. The beauty of her whole figure, her head, her neck, her hands, struck Vronsky every time as something new and unexpected. He stood still, gazing at her in ecstasy. But, directly he would have made a step to come nearer to her, she was aware of his presence, pushed away the watering pot, and turned her flushed face towards him.
这次谢廖扎不在家，只剩下她一个人。她坐在露台上等待儿子回来，儿子出去散步，淋了雨。她派了一个男仆和一个丫鬟出去寻找他。她穿着一袭深绣的白袍，坐在花丛后面的露台一角，没有听到他的声音。她低下黑色的卷发头，将额头抵在栏杆上的一个凉爽的喷壶上，两只可爱的手，带着他熟悉的戒指，紧紧地握住了喷壶。她整个身材的美丽，她的头、她的脖子、她的手，每次都给渥伦斯基带来新的和意想不到的感觉。他一动不动地站着，一脸欣喜地看着她。但他刚刚迈出一步想要靠近她，她就察觉到了他的存在，推开了水壶，把红红的脸转向了他。

‘What’s the matter? You are ill?’ he said to her in French, going up to her. He would have run to her, but remembering that there might be spectators, he looked round towards the balcony door, and reddened a little, as he always reddened, feeling that he had to be afraid and be on his guard.
'怎么了？ “你病了？”他走到她面前，用法语对她说道。他本想跑向她，但想起可能有观众，他扭头朝阳台门望去，脸红了一点，就像他一贯的脸红一样，觉得自己必须感到害怕和警惕。

‘No, I’m quite well,’ she said, getting up and pressing his outstretched hand tightly. ‘I did not expect...thee.’
“不，我很好，”她说着站起来，紧紧握住他伸出的手。 “我没想到……你。”

‘Mercy! what cold hands!’ he said.
'怜悯！ “手好冷啊！”他说。

‘You startled me,’ she said. ‘I’m alone, and expecting Seryozha; he’s out for a walk; they’ll come in from this side.’
“你吓到我了，”她说。 “我独自一人，等待着谢廖扎；他出去散步了；他们将从这边进来。

But, in spite of her efforts to be calm, her lips were quivering.
然而，尽管她努力保持冷静，嘴唇却在颤抖。

‘Forgive me for coming, but I couldn’t pass the day without seeing you,’ he went on, speaking French, as he always did to avoid using the stiff Russian plural form, so impossibly frigid between them, and the dangerously intimate singular.
“请原谅我来，但我不能在没有见到你的情况下度过这一天，”他继续说，说着法语，就像他总是做的那样，避免使用僵硬的俄语复数形式，它们之间如此冷漠，以及危险的亲密单数。

‘Forgive you? I’m so glad!’
'原谅你？我很高兴！'

‘But you’re ill or worried,’ he went on, not letting go her hands and bending over her. ‘What were you thinking of?’
“但是你病了或者很担心，”他继续说道，没有放开她的双手，弯下身子在她身上。 “你在想什么？”

‘Always the same thing,’ she said, with a smile.
“总是一样的，”她微笑着说道。

She spoke the truth. If ever at any moment she had been asked what she was thinking of, she could have answered truly: of the same thing, of her happiness and her unhappiness. She was thinking, just when he came upon her, of this: why was it, she wondered, that to others, to Betsy (she knew of her secret connection with Tushkevitch) it was all easy, while to her it was such torture? Today this thought gained special poignancy from certain other considerations. She asked him about the races. He answered her questions, and, seeing that she was agitated, trying to calm her, he began telling her in the simplest tone the details of his preparations for the races.
她说的是实话。如果有人问她在想什么，她可以如实回答：同一件事，她的幸福和她的不幸。当他遇到她时，她正在想：为什么，她想知道，对于其他人，对于贝特西（她知道她与图什克维奇的秘密联系）来说，这一切都很容易，而对于她来说，这却是如此折磨？今天，这个想法因某些其他考虑而变得特别尖锐。她向他询问比赛的情况。他回答了她的问题，看到她焦躁不安，试图让她平静下来，他开始用最简单的语气告诉她他为比赛做准备的细节。

‘Tell him or not tell him?’ she thought, looking into his quiet, affectionate eyes. ‘He is so happy, so absorbed in his races that he won’t understand as he ought, he won’t understand all the gravity of this fact to us.’
“告诉他还是不告诉他？”她看着他平静而深情的眼睛想道。 “他是如此快乐，如此专注于他的比赛，以至于他不会理解他应该理解的事情，他不会理解这个事实对我们的所有重要性。”

‘But you haven’t told me what you were thinking of when I came in,’ he said, interrupting his narrative; ‘please tell me!’
“但你还没告诉我当我进来时你在想什么，”他打断了自己的叙述。 '请告诉我！'

She did not answer, and, bending her head a little, she looked inquiringly at him from under her brows, her eyes shining under their long lashes. Her hand shook as it played with a leaf she had picked. He saw it, and his face expressed that utter subjection, that slavish devotion, which had done so much to win her.
她没有回答，微微低着头，从眉下询问地看着他，长长的睫毛下一双眼睛闪闪发亮。她的手在玩弄她摘下的一片叶子时颤抖着。他看到了，他的脸上流露出那种完全的服从，那种奴性的奉献，这为赢得她做出了巨大的贡献。

‘I see something has happened. Do you suppose I can be at peace, knowing you have a trouble I am not sharing? Tell me, for God’s sake,’ he repeated imploringly.
‘我看到发生了一些事情。你以为我知道你有我不分担的烦恼，就能安心吗？告诉我，看在上帝的份上，”他恳求地重复道。

‘Yes, I shan’t be able to forgive him if he does not realize all the gravity of it. Better not tell; why put him to the proof?’ she thought, still staring at him in the same way, and feeling the hand that held the leaf was trembling more and more.
“是的，如果他没有意识到事情的严重性，我就无法原谅他。最好不要告诉；为什么要让他接受证据？”她想道，仍然以同样的方式盯着他，感觉握着叶子的手越来越颤抖。

‘For God’s sake!’ he repeated, taking her hand.
“看在上帝的份上！”他重复道，握住她的手。

‘Shall I tell you?’
“要我告诉你吗？”

‘Yes, yes, yes …’
'对对对 …'

‘I’m with child,’ she said, softly and deliberately. The leaf in her hand shook more violently, but she did not take her eyes off him, watching how he would take it. He turned white, would have said something, but stopped; he dropped her hand, and his head sank on his breast. ‘Yes, he realizes all the gravity of it,’ she thought, and gratefully she pressed his hand.
“我怀了孩子，”她轻声而从容地说。她手里的叶子抖得更厉害了，但她的目光却没有离开他，看他如何对待它。他脸色煞白，本来想说什么，但又停了下来；他放开她的手，把头埋在胸前。 “是的，他意识到了事情的严重性，”她想，感激地握住了他的手。

But she was mistaken in thinking he realized the gravity of the fact as she, a woman, realized it. On hearing it, he felt come upon him with tenfold intensity that strange feeling of loathing of someone. But at the same time, he felt that the turning-point he had been longing for had come now; that it was impossible to go on concealing things from her husband, and it was inevitable in one way or another that they should soon put an end to their unnatural position. But, besides that, her emotion physically affected him in the same way. He looked at her with a look of submissive tenderness, kissed her hand, got up, and, in silence, paced up and down the terrace.
但她错误地认为他意识到了这个事实的严重性，就像她，一个女人，意识到了这一点一样。听到这句话，他感到一种十倍强烈的奇怪的厌恶某人的感觉袭上心头。但同时，他又觉得自己一直盼望的转折点现在已经到来了；不可能继续向她丈夫隐瞒事情，他们不可避免地要以某种方式尽快结束这种不自然的处境。但是，除此之外，她的情绪也以同样的方式影响了他的身体。他用一种顺从的温柔目光看着她，吻了吻她的手，站起身来，默默地在露台上踱来踱去。

‘Yes,’ he said, going up to her resolutely. ‘Neither you nor I have looked on our relations as a passing amusement, and now our fate is sealed. It is absolutely necessary to put an end’—he looked round as he spoke—‘to the deception in which we are living.’
“是的，”他坚定地走到她面前。 “你和我都没有把我们的关系视为一时的消遣，现在我们的命运已经注定。绝对有必要结束”——他边说边环顾四周——“结束我们所生活的欺骗。”

‘Put an end? How put an end, Alexey?’ she said softly.
'做个了结？ “怎么结束，阿列克谢？”她轻声说道。

She was calmer now, and her face lighted up with a tender smile.
她现在平静多了，脸上绽放出温柔的笑容。

‘Leave your husband and make our life one.’
“离开你的丈夫，让我们的生活合而为一。”

‘It is one as it is,’ she answered, scarcely audibly.
“就是这样，”她回答道，声音几乎听不见。

‘Yes, but altogether; altogether.’
“是的，但完全是这样；”共。'

‘But how, Alexey, tell me how?’ she said in melancholy mockery at the hopelessness of her own position. ‘Is there any way out of such a position? Am I not the wife of my husband?’
“但是怎么办，阿列克谢，告诉我怎么办？”她对自己绝望的处境忧郁地嘲笑道。 ‘有什么办法可以摆脱这样的处境吗？我不是我丈夫的妻子吗？

‘There is a way out of every position. We must take our line,’ he said. ‘Anything’s better than the position in which you’re living. Of course, I see how you torture yourself over everything—the world and your son and your husband.’
‘每个位置都有一条出路。我们必须坚持自己的路线，”他说。 “任何事情都比你现在的处境更好。”当然，我看到你如何在一切事情上折磨自己——世界、你的儿子和你的丈夫。

‘Oh, not over my husband,’ she said, with a quiet smile. ‘I don’t know him, I don’t think of him. He doesn’t exist.’
“哦，不是因为我丈夫，”她平静地微笑着说道。 “我不认识他，我不想他。他不存在。

‘You’re not speaking sincerely. I know you. You worry about him too.’
‘你说的不是真心话。我认识你。你也担心他。

‘Oh, he doesn’t even know,’ she said, and suddenly a hot flush came over her face; her cheeks, her brow, her neck crimsoned, and tears of shame came into her eyes. ‘But we won’t talk of him.’
“哦，他根本不知道。”她说，脸上突然泛起一阵潮热。她的脸颊、额头、脖子都涨红了，眼里涌出羞愧的泪水。 “但我们不会谈论他。”

Chapter 23
第23章

Vronsky had several times already, though not so resolutely as now, tried to bring her to consider their position, and every time he had been confronted by the same superficiality and triviality with which she met his appeal now. It was as though there were something in this which she could not or would not face, as though directly she began to speak of this, she, the real Anna, retreated somehow into herself, and another strange and unaccountable woman came out, whom he did not love, and whom he feared, and who was in opposition to him. But today he was resolved to have it out.
渥伦斯基已经好几次试图让她考虑他们的立场，虽然不像现在那么坚决，但每次他都遇到同样的肤浅和琐碎，就像她现在满足他的呼吁一样。仿佛这里面有什么东西是她无法或不愿面对的，就好像当她一开始谈论这件事时，她，真正的安娜，不知何故退缩到了自己的世界里，另一个奇怪的、不负责任的女人出现了，不爱谁，不畏惧谁，也不反对他。但今天他决定把这件事说出来。

‘Whether he knows or not,’ said Vronsky, in his usual quiet and resolute tone, ‘that’s nothing to do with us. We cannot...you cannot stay like this, especially now.’
“不管他知道与否，”渥伦斯基用他一贯平静而坚决的语气说道，“这与我们无关。我们不能……你不能保持这样，尤其是现在。

‘What’s to be done, according to you?’ she asked with the same frivolous irony. She who had so feared he would take her condition too lightly was now vexed with him for deducing from it the necessity of taking some step.
“按照你的说法，该怎么办？”她同样轻率地讽刺地问道。她原本担心他会太轻视她的病情，现在却对他感到恼火，因为他据此推断出有必要采取一些措施。

‘Tell him everything, and leave him.’
“告诉他一切，然后离开他。”

‘Very well, let us suppose I do that,’ she said. ‘Do you know what the result of that would be? I can tell you it all beforehand,’ and a wicked light gleamed in her eyes, that had been so soft a minute before. ‘‘Eh, you love another man, and have entered into criminal intrigues with him?’’ (Mimicking her husband, she threw an emphasis on the word ‘criminal,’ as Alexey Alexandrovitch did.) ‘‘I warned you of the results in the religious, the civil, and the domestic relation. You have not listened to me. Now I cannot let you disgrace my name,—‘’ ‘and my son,’ she had meant to say, but about her son she could not jest,—‘‘disgrace my name, and’—and more in the same style,’ she added. ‘In general terms, he’ll say in his official manner, and with all distinctness and precision, that he cannot let me go, but will take all measures in his power to prevent scandal. And he will calmly and punctually act in accordance with his words. That’s what will happen. He’s not a man, but a machine, and a spiteful machine when he’s angry,’ she added, recalling Alexey Alexandrovitch as she spoke, with all the peculiarities of his figure and manner of speaking, and reckoning against him every defect she could find in him, softening nothing for the great wrong she herself was doing him.
“很好，让我们假设我这么做了，”她说。 ‘你知道这样做的结果是什么吗？我可以提前告诉你这一切。”她的眼眸中闪烁着邪恶的光芒，一分钟前她的眼眸还是那么柔和。 “呃，你爱上了另一个男人，并且与他陷入了犯罪阴谋？”（模仿她的丈夫，她像阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇那样强调了“犯罪”这个词。）“我警告过你结果在宗教、民事和家庭关系中。你没有听我说。现在我不能让你玷污我的名字，——”“还有我的儿子，”她本来想说，但关于她的儿子，她不能开玩笑，——“玷污我的名字，并且”——还有更多同样的风格， “她补充道。 “总的来说，他会以正式的方式、明确而准确地说，他不能让我走，但会采取一切权力措施来防止丑闻的发生。”而他也会冷静、准时地按照他的话去做。这就是将会发生的事情。他不是一个人，而是一台机器，当他生气的时候，还是一台恶毒的机器。”她补充道，回忆起阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇的讲话，以及他的身材和说话方式的所有特点，并考虑到她能在他身上找到的每一个缺陷。对于她自己对他犯下的大错，他没有任何软化。

‘But, Anna,’ said Vronsky, in a soft and persuasive voice, trying to soothe her, ‘we absolutely must, anyway, tell him, and then be guided by the line he takes.’
“但是，安娜，”渥伦斯基试图安抚她，用柔和而有说服力的声音说道，“无论如何，我们绝对必须告诉他，然后听从他的路线。”

‘What, run away?’
“什么，逃跑？”

‘And why not run away? I don’t see how we can keep on like this. And not for my sake—I see that you suffer.’
‘那为什么不逃跑呢？我不知道我们如何才能继续这样下去。不是为了我——我看到你受苦。

‘Yes, run away, and become your mistress,’ she said angrily.
“是的，逃走，成为你的情妇，”她生气地说。

‘Anna,’ he said, with reproachful tenderness.
“安娜，”他带着责备的温柔说道。

‘Yes,’ she went on, ‘become your mistress, and complete the ruin of...’
“是的，”她继续说道，“成为你的情妇，彻底毁灭……”

Again she would have said ‘my son,’ but she could not utter that word.
她会再次说“我的儿子”，但她无法说出这个词。

Vronsky could not understand how she, with her strong and truthful nature, could endure this state of deceit, and not long to get out of it. But he did not suspect that the chief cause of it was the word—son, which she could not bring herself to pronounce. When she thought of her son, and his future attitude to his mother, who had abandoned his father, she felt such terror at what she had done, that she could not face it; but, like a woman, could only try to comfort herself with lying assurances that everything would remain as it always had been, and that it was possible to forget the fearful question of how it would be with her son.
渥伦斯基不明白，她的性格坚强而诚实，怎么能忍受这种欺骗的状态，而且很快就摆脱了这种状态。但他并不怀疑这一切的主要原因是“儿子”这个词，而她却无法说出这个词。当她想到她的儿子，以及他未来对抛弃了父亲的母亲的态度时，她对自己所做的事情感到如此恐惧，以至于她无法面对它；但是，就像一个女人一样，她只能用谎言来安慰自己，保证一切都会保持原样，并且可以忘记儿子会怎样的可怕问题。

‘I beg you, I entreat you,’ she said suddenly, taking his hand, and speaking in quite a different tone, sincere and tender, ‘never speak to me of that!’
“我求求你，我恳求你，”她突然握住他的手，用一种完全不同的语气说，真诚而温柔，“永远不要对我说起这件事！”

‘But, Anna...’
“但是，安娜……”

‘Never. Leave it to me. I know all the baseness, all the horror of my position; but it’s not so easy to arrange as you think. And leave it to me, and do what I say. Never speak to me of it. Do you promise me?...No, no, promise!...’
'绝不。交给我。我知道我的处境有多么卑鄙、多么可怕；但安排起来并不像你想象的那么容易。那就交给我吧，按我说的做。永远别跟我提这件事。你答应我吗？……不，不，答应我！……”

‘I promise everything, but I can’t be at peace, especially after what you have told me. I can’t be at peace, when you can’t be at peace....’
“我答应了一切，但我无法平静，尤其是在你告诉我这些之后。当你无法平静时，我也无法平静......”

‘I?’ she repeated. ‘Yes, I am worried sometimes; but that will pass, if you will never talk about this. When you talk about it—it’s only then it worries me.’
“我？”她重复道。 ‘是的，我有时会担心；但如果你永远不谈论这件事，那一切都会过去。当你谈论这件事时——只有那时我才会担心。

‘I don’t understand,’ he said.
“我不明白，”他说。

‘I know,’ she interrupted him, ‘how hard it is for your truthful nature to lie, and I grieve for you. I often think that you have ruined your whole life for me.’
“我知道，”她打断了他的话，“对于你诚实的本性来说，撒谎是多么困难，我为你感到悲伤。”我常常认为你为我毁了你的一生。

‘I was just thinking the very same thing,’ he said; ‘how could you sacrifice everything for my sake? I can’t forgive myself that you’re unhappy!’
“我只是在想同样的事情，”他说。 ‘你怎么可以为了我牺牲一切？我无法原谅自己你不快乐！

‘I unhappy?’ she said, coming closer to him, and looking at him with an ecstatic smile of love. ‘I am like a hungry man who has been given food. He may be cold, and dressed in rags, and ashamed, but he is not unhappy. I unhappy? No, this is my unhappiness....’
“我不快乐？”她说，走近他，带着欣喜若狂的爱意微笑看着他。 “我就像一个饥饿的人，得到了食物。他可能很冷，衣衫褴褛，感到羞愧，但他并不不高兴。我不高兴？不，这是我的不幸……”

She could hear the sound of her son’s voice coming towards them, and glancing swiftly round the terrace, she got up impulsively. Her eyes glowed with the fire he knew so well; with a rapid movement she raised her lovely hands, covered with rings, took his head, looked a long look into his face, and, putting up her face with smiling, parted lips, swiftly kissed his mouth and both eyes, and pushed him away. She would have gone, but he held her back.
她听到儿子的声音朝他们这边传来，她迅速扫视了一下露台，冲动地站了起来。她的眼睛里闪烁着他熟悉的火焰；她迅速举起戴着戒指的可爱双手，捧起他的头，久久地凝视着他的脸，微笑着抬起脸，张开双唇，迅速吻住他的嘴和双眼，然后把他推开。 。她本想走，但他却拉住了她。

‘When?’ he murmured in a whisper, gazing in ecstasy at her.
“什么时候？”他低声问道，狂喜地看着她。

‘Tonight, at one o’clock,’ she whispered, and, with a heavy sigh, she walked with her light, swift step to meet her son.
“今晚一点，”她轻声说道，重重地叹了口气，迈着轻快的步伐去见儿子。

Seryozha had been caught by the rain in the big garden, and he and his nurse had taken shelter in an arbor.
谢廖扎在大花园里被雨淋湿了，他和他的保姆躲在凉亭里。

‘Well, au revoir,’ she said to Vronsky. ‘I must soon be getting ready for the races. Betsy promised to fetch me.’
“好吧，再见，”她对渥伦斯基说。 “我必须尽快为比赛做好准备。贝特西答应来接我。

Vronsky, looking at his watch, went away hurriedly.
渥伦斯基看了看表，匆匆离去。

Chapter 24
第24章

When Vronsky looked at his watch on the Karenins’ balcony, he was so greatly agitated and lost in his thoughts that he saw the figures on the watch’s face, but could not take in what time it was. He came out on to the high road and walked, picking his way carefully through the mud, to his carriage. He was so completely absorbed in his feeling for Anna, that he did not even think what o’clock it was, and whether he had time to go to Bryansky’s. He had left him, as often happens, only the external faculty of memory, that points out each step one has to take, one after the other. He went up to his coachman, who was dozing on the box in the shadow, already lengthening, of a thick limetree; he admired the shifting clouds of midges circling over the hot horses, and, waking the coachman, he jumped into the carriage, and told him to drive to Bryansky’s. It was only after driving nearly five miles that he had sufficiently recovered himself to look at his watch, and realize that it was half-past five, and he was late.
当渥伦斯基在卡列宁家的阳台上看手表时，他非常焦躁，陷入了沉思，他看到了手表表面上的数字，但记不清现在是什么时间。他走上大路，小心翼翼地穿过泥泞，走向他的马车。他完全沉浸在对安娜的感情中，甚至没有想到现在几点了，也没有想到自己是否有时间去布良斯基家。正如经常发生的那样，他留给他的只有外部记忆能力，它指出一个人必须采取的每一步，一个接一个。他走到车夫跟前，车夫正在一棵茂密椴树的阴影下，在箱子上打瞌睡，阴影已经拉长了。他欣赏着热马上方盘旋的蚊群，叫醒了车夫，跳上马车，叫他开车去布良斯基家。直到开了近五英里之后，他才回过神来，看看手表，发现已经五点半了，他迟到了。

There were several races fixed for that day: the Mounted Guards’ race, then the officers’ mile-and-a-half race, then the three-mile race, and then the race for which he was entered. He could still be in time for his race, but if he went to Bryansky’s he could only just be in time, and he would arrive when the whole of the court would be in their places. That would be a pity. But he had promised Bryansky to come, and so he decided to drive on, telling the coachman not to spare the horses.
那天安排了几场比赛：骑兵卫队比赛，然后是军官的一英里半比赛，然后是三英里比赛，然后是他参加的比赛。他仍然可以准时参加比赛，但如果他去布良斯基那儿，他只能准时到达，当整个球场都就位时他就会到达。那将是一个遗憾。但他已经答应布良斯基会来，所以他决定继续前行，并告诉车夫不要放过马匹。

He reached Bryansky’s, spent five minutes there, and galloped back. This rapid drive calmed him. All that was painful in his relations with Anna, all the feeling of indefiniteness left by their conversation, had slipped out of his mind. He was thinking now with pleasure and excitement of the race, of his being anyhow, in time, and now and then the thought of the blissful interview awaiting him that night flashed across his imagination like a flaming light.
他到达布良斯基家，在那里呆了五分钟，然后策马返回。这种快速的驾驶让他平静下来。他和安娜的关系中所有的痛苦，他们谈话中留下的所有不确定的感觉，都从他的脑海中消失了。他现在满怀喜悦和兴奋地想着比赛，想着自己无论如何都及时赶到了，那天晚上等待着他的幸福采访的想法时不时地像一道火焰一样在他的想象中闪过。

The excitement of the approaching race gained upon him as he drove further and further into the atmosphere of the races, overtaking carriages driving up from the summer villas or out of Petersburg.
当他越来越深入比赛的气氛时，他对即将到来的比赛感到兴奋不已，超越了从避暑别墅或彼得堡驶来的马车。

At his quarters no one was left at home; all were at the races, and his valet was looking out for him at the gate. While he was changing his clothes, his valet told him that the second race had begun already, that a lot of gentlemen had been to ask for him, and a boy had twice run up from the stables. Dressing without hurry (he never hurried himself, and never lost his self-possession), Vronsky drove to the sheds. From the sheds he could see a perfect sea of carriages, and people on foot, soldiers surrounding the race course, and pavilions swarming with people. The second race was apparently going on, for just as he went into the sheds he heard a bell ringing. Going towards the stable, he met the white-legged chestnut, Mahotin’s Gladiator, being led to the race-course in a blue forage horsecloth, with what looked like huge ears edged with blue.
他的住处没有人留在家里。所有人都在参加比赛，他的贴身男仆正在门口照顾他。当他换衣服的时候，他的贴身男仆告诉他，第二场比赛已经开始了，很多绅士都来找他，有一个男孩两次从马厩里跑出来。渥伦斯基不慌不忙地穿好衣服（他从不催促自己，也从不失去冷静），开车前往棚屋。从棚子里可以看到完美的车海、行人、赛马场周围的士兵、以及挤满了人的亭台楼阁。第二场比赛显然正在进行，因为当他走进棚屋时，他听到铃声响起。走向马厩的时候，他遇到了白腿栗子，马霍廷角斗士，他穿着蓝色的草料马布，被带到赛马场，长着一对蓝色边缘的巨大耳朵。

‘Where’s Cord?’ he asked the stable-boy.
“科德在哪儿？”他问马童。

‘In the stable, putting on the saddle.’
“在马厩里，穿上马鞍。”

In the open horse-box stood Frou-Frou, saddled ready. They were just going to lead her out.
打开的马箱里站着弗鲁弗鲁，备好了马鞍。他们只是想带她出去。

‘I’m not too late?’
“我还不算太晚吗？”

‘All right! All right!’ said the Englishman; ‘don’t upset yourself!’
'好的！好吧！”英国人说道。 “别让自己难过！”

Vronsky once more took in in one glance the exquisite lines of his favorite mare; who was quivering all over, and with an effort he tore himself from the sight of her, and went out of the stable. He went towards the pavilions at the most favorable moment for escaping attention. The mile-and-a-half race was just finishing, and all eyes were fixed on the horse-guard in front and the light hussar behind, urging their horses on with a last effort close to the winning post. From the center and outside of the ring all were crowding to the winning post, and a group of soldiers and officers of the horse-guards were shouting loudly their delight at the expected triumph of their officer and comrade. Vronsky moved into the middle of the crowd unnoticed, almost at the very moment when the bell rang at the finish of the race, and the tall, mudspattered horse-guard who came in first, bending over the saddle, let go the reins of his panting gray horse that looked dark with sweat.
渥伦斯基再次瞥见了他最喜爱的母马优美的线条。他浑身发抖，费了好大劲才从她的视线中挣脱出来，走出了马厩。他在最有利的时机向亭子走去，以逃避人们的注意。一英里半的比赛刚刚结束，所有人的目光都集中在前面的骑兵卫士和后面的轻骑兵身上，催促他们的马匹在接近胜利的柱子上做最后的努力。从擂台的中心和外面，所有人都涌向胜利的阵地，一群士兵和骑兵卫队军官大声喊叫，为他们的军官和战友的预期胜利而高兴。渥伦斯基悄无声息地走到了人群中间，几乎就在比赛结束的铃声响起的同时，第一个进来的高个子、沾满泥巴的护马者弯下马鞍，松开了缰绳。灰马气喘吁吁，汗水淋漓，看上去黝黑。

The horse, stiffening out its legs, with an effort stopped its rapid course, and the officer of the horse-guards looked round him like a man waking up from a heavy sleep, and just managed to smile. A crowd of friends and outsiders pressed round him.
马绷紧了腿，费力地停下了急速前进的脚步，侍卫军官环顾四周，就像一个从沉睡中醒来的人一样，勉强微笑起来。一群朋友和外人围着他。

Vronsky intentionally avoided that select crowd of the upper world, which was moving and talking with discreet freedom before the pavilions. He knew that Madame Karenina was there, and Betsy, and his brother’s wife, and he purposely did not go near them for fear of something distracting his attention. But he was continually met and stopped by acquaintances, who told him about the previous races, and kept asking him why he was so late.
渥伦斯基有意避开那些在展馆前谨慎自由地走动和交谈的上层世界的精选人群。他知道卡列尼娜夫人、贝琪和他哥哥的妻子都在那里，他故意不走近他们，生怕有什么事情分散了他的注意力。但他不断地被熟人遇见和拦住，他们告诉他之前比赛的情况，并不断问他为什么这么晚。

At the time when the racers had to go to the pavilion to receive the prizes, and all attention was directed to that point, Vronsky’s elder brother, Alexander, a colonel with heavy fringed epaulets, came up to him. He was not tall, though as broadly built as Alexey, and handsomer and rosier than he; he had a red nose, and an open, drunken-looking face.
当赛车手们要去展馆领取奖品，所有的注意力都集中在这一点时，渥伦斯基的哥哥亚历山大，一位戴着厚重流苏肩章的上校，走到了他的面前。他个子不高，尽管体格和阿列克谢一样宽阔，而且比他更英俊、更红润。他有一个红鼻子，一张开朗、醉酒的脸。

‘Did you get my note?’ he said. ‘There’s never any finding you.’
“你收到我的字条了吗？”他说。 “永远找不到你。”

Alexander Vronsky, in spite of the dissolute life, and in especial the drunken habits, for which he was notorious, was quite one of the court circle.
亚历山大·渥伦斯基尽管生活放荡，尤其是酗酒的习惯，因此臭名昭著，但他却是宫廷圈子里的一员。

Now, as he talked to his brother of a matter bound to be exceedingly disagreeable to him, knowing that the eyes of many people might be fixed upon him, he kept a smiling countenance, as though he were jesting with his brother about something of little moment.
现在，当他和他的兄弟谈论一件令他非常不高兴的事情时，他知道很多人的目光都集中在他身上，他脸上始终保持着微笑，就好像他在和他的兄弟开玩笑一样。片刻。

‘I got it, and I really can’t make out what you are worrying yourself about,’ said Alexey.
“我明白了，我真的不明白你在担心什么，”阿列克谢说。

‘I’m worrying myself because the remark has just been made to me that you weren’t here, and that you were seen in Peterhof on Monday.’
“我自己也很担心，因为刚刚有人对我说你不在这里，而且周一有人在彼得霍夫见到你。”

‘There are matters which only concern those directly interested in them, and the matter you are so worried about is...’
“有些事情只与那些直接感兴趣的人有关，而你如此担心的事情是……”

‘Yes, but if so, you may as well cut the service....’
“是的，但如果是这样，你最好停止服务……”

‘I beg you not to meddle, and that’s all I have to say.’
“我求你不要插手，这就是我要说的。”

Alexey Vronsky’s frowning face turned white, and his prominent lower jaw quivered, which happened rarely with him. Being a man of very warm heart, he was seldom angry; but when he was angry, and when his chin quivered, then, as Alexander Vronsky knew, he was dangerous. Alexander Vronsky smiled gaily.
阿列克谢·渥伦斯基皱着眉头的脸色变得惨白，突出的下颌颤抖着，这种情况在他身上很少发生。他是一个心地很热的人，很少生气。但当他生气时，当他的下巴颤抖时，正如亚历山大·渥伦斯基所知，他就很危险了。亚历山大·渥伦斯基愉快地微笑着。

‘I only wanted to give you Mother’s letter. Answer it, and don’t worry about anything just before the race. Bonne chance,’ he added, smiling and he moved away from him. But after him another friendly greeting brought Vronsky to a standstill.
“我只是想把妈妈的信交给你。回答这个问题，比赛前不要担心任何事情。祝你好运，”他微笑着补充道，然后从他身边走开。但在他之后，另一声友好的问候让渥伦斯基陷入了停滞。

‘So you won’t recognize your friends! How are you, mon cher?’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch, as conspicuously brilliant in the midst of all the Petersburg brilliance as he was in Moscow, his face rosy, and his whiskers sleek and glossy. ‘I came up yesterday, and I’m delighted that I shall see your triumph. When shall we meet?’
‘这样你就认不出你的朋友了！你好吗，亲爱的？”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇说道，他在彼得堡的光辉之中，就像在莫斯科一样，显得格外光彩照人，他的脸色红润，胡须光滑有光泽。 “我昨天来了，很高兴能看到你的胜利。我们什么时候见面？'

‘Come tomorrow to the messroom,’ said Vronsky, and squeezing him by the sleeve of his coat, with apologies, he moved away to the center of the race course, where the horses were being led for the great steeplechase.
“明天到餐厅来吧，”渥伦斯基说，一边道歉，一边捏着他的衣袖，然后走到赛马场中央，马匹正被牵着去那里参加大型障碍赛。

The horses who had run in the last race were being led home, steaming and exhausted, by the stable-boys, and one after another the fresh horses for the coming race made their appearance, for the most part English racers, wearing horsecloths, and looking with their drawn-up bellies like strange, huge birds. On the right was led in Frou-Frou, lean and beautiful, lifting up her elastic, rather long pasterns, as though moved by springs. Not far from her they were taking the rug off the lop-eared Gladiator. The strong, exquisite, perfectly correct lines of the stallion, with his superb hind-quarters and excessively short pasterns almost over his hoofs, attracted Vronsky’s attention in spite of himself. He would have gone up to his mare, but he was again detained by an acquaintance.
参加过上一场比赛的马匹正被马童牵着回家，他们热气腾腾、筋疲力尽，而即将到来的比赛的新鲜马匹也陆续出现，其中大部分是英国赛马，穿着马衣，它们鼓起的肚子看起来就像奇怪的巨大鸟类。右边是芙蓉芙蓉，瘦削而美丽，抬起她有弹性的、相当长的脚腕，仿佛被弹簧推动。离她不远的地方，他们正在把垂耳角斗士身上的地毯取下来。这匹公马的线条强壮、精致、完美，后躯优美，脚腕过短，几乎盖过蹄子，不由自主地吸引了渥伦斯基的注意。他本想走向他的母马，但他又被一个熟人拦住了。

‘Oh, there’s Karenin!’ said the acquaintance with whom he was chatting. ‘He’s looking for his wife, and she’s in the middle of the pavilion. Didn’t you see her?’
“哦，卡列宁来了！”与他聊天的熟人说道。 ‘他正在寻找他的妻子，而她就在亭子中央。你没看到她吗？

‘No,’ answered Vronsky, and without even glancing round towards the pavilion where his friend was pointing out Madame Karenina, he went up to his mare.
“不，”渥伦斯基回答道，他甚至没有回头看一眼他的朋友指着卡列尼娜夫人的凉亭，就走到了他的母马跟前。

Vronsky had not had time to look at the saddle, about which he had to give some direction, when the competitors were summoned to the pavilion to receive their numbers and places in the row at starting. Seventeen officers, looking serious and severe, many with pale faces, met together in the pavilion and drew the numbers. Vronsky drew the number seven. The cry was heard: ‘Mount!’
渥伦斯基还没来得及查看马鞍，他必须对马鞍进行一些指导，此时参赛者被召集到展馆，领取他们的号码和出发时的排位。十七名军官，神色严肃，不少脸色苍白，在凉亭里聚集，抽号。渥伦斯基抽出了数字“七”。听见喊叫声：“上马！”

Feeling that with the others riding in the race, he was the center upon which all eyes were fastened, Vronsky walked up to his mare in that state of nervous tension in which he usually became deliberate and composed in his movements. Cord, in honor of the races, had put on his best clothes, a black coat buttoned up, a stiffly starched collar, which propped up his cheeks, a round black hat, and top boots. He was calm and dignified as ever, and was with his own hands holding Frou-Frou by both reins, standing straight in front of her. Frou-Frou was still trembling as though in a fever. Her eye, full of fire, glanced sideways at Vronsky. Vronsky slipped his finger under the saddle-girth. The mare glanced aslant at him, drew up her lip, and twitched her ear. The Englishman puckered up his lips, intending to indicate a smile that anyone should verify his saddling.
渥伦斯基感觉到，在比赛中，他是所有人目光注视的中心，他在神经紧张的状态下走向他的母马，在这种状态下，他的动作通常变得从容而镇定。为了纪念比赛，科德穿上了他最好的衣服，一件黑色外套，扣着纽扣，硬挺的衣领撑起他的脸颊，戴着一顶黑色圆帽，脚上穿着高筒靴。他一如既往的平静而威严，亲手牵着芙蓉芙蓉的缰绳，笔直地站在她面前。芙鲁芙鲁仍然浑身发抖，就像发烧一样。她的眼睛充满了火焰，斜瞟着渥伦斯基。渥伦斯基将手指伸进马鞍带下面。母马斜瞟了他一眼，抿起嘴唇，抽动耳朵。英国人抿起嘴唇，想要露出一个微笑，示意任何人都应该确认他的鞍具。

‘Get up; you won’t feel so excited.’
'起床;你不会感到那么兴奋。

Vronsky looked round for the last time at his rivals. He knew that he would not see them during the race. Two were already riding forward to the point from which they were to start. Galtsin, a friend of Vronsky’s and one of his more formidable rivals, was moving round a bay horse that would not let him mount. A little light hussar in tight riding breeches rode off at a gallop, crouched up like a cat on the saddle, in imitation of English jockeys. Prince Kuzovlev sat with a white face on his thoroughbred mare from the Grabovsky stud, while an English groom led her by the bridle. Vronsky and all his comrades knew Kuzovlev and his peculiarity of ‘weak nerves’ and terrible vanity. They knew that he was afraid of everything, afraid of riding a spirited horse. But now, just because it was terrible, because people broke their necks, and there was a doctor standing at each obstacle, and an ambulance with a cross on it, and a sister of mercy, he had made up his mind to take part in the race. Their eyes met, and Vronsky gave him a friendly and encouraging nod. Only one he did not see, his chief rival, Mahotin on Gladiator.
渥伦斯基最后一次环顾他的对手。他知道在比赛期间他不会看到他们。两人已经策马前往出发地点。加尔钦是渥伦斯基的朋友，也是他最强大的对手之一，他正围着一匹不让他上马的枣红马移动。一名身着紧身马裤的轻骑兵策马驰骋，像猫一样蹲在马鞍上，模仿英国骑师的动作。库佐夫列夫王子面色苍白，骑着他那匹来自格拉博夫斯基种马的纯种母马，一位英国马夫牵着她的缰绳。渥伦斯基和他的所有同志都了解库佐夫列夫，也了解他“神经衰弱”和可怕的虚荣心的特点。他们知道他什么都害怕，害怕骑着一匹烈马。但现在，只是因为太可怕了，因为人们扭断了脖子，而且每个障碍处都站着一名医生，还有一辆挂着十字架的救护车，还有一位仁慈的姐妹，他就下定决心要参加了。比赛。他们四目相对，渥伦斯基友善而鼓励地向他点了点头。只有一个他没见过，那就是他的主要对手，《角斗士》中的马霍廷。

‘Don’t be in a hurry,’ said Cord to Vronsky, ‘and remember one thing: don’t hold her in at the fences, and don’t urge her on; let her go as she likes.’
“别着急，”科德对渥伦斯基说，“记住一件事：不要把她困在栅栏里，也不要催促她；让她随心所欲地走吧。

‘All right, all right,’ said Vronsky, taking the reins.
“好吧，好吧，”渥伦斯基接过缰绳说道。

‘If you can, lead the race; but don’t lose heart till the last minute, even if you’re behind.’
“如果可以，请领先；但直到最后一刻也不要灰心，即使你落后了。”

Before the mare had time to move, Vronsky stepped with an agile, vigorous movement into the steel-toothed stirrup, and lightly and firmly seated himself on the creaking leather of the saddle. Getting his right foot in the stirrup, he smoothed the double reins, as he always did, between his fingers, and Cord let go.
母马还没来得及移动，渥伦斯基就以敏捷、有力的动作跨入了钢齿马镫，轻轻而稳稳地坐到了嘎吱作响的马鞍皮革上。他把右脚踩在马镫上，像往常一样，用手指抚平双缰绳，然后科德松开了手。

As though she did not know which foot to put first, Frou-Frou started, dragging at the reins with her long neck, and as though she were on springs, shaking her rider from side to side. Cord quickened his step, following him. The excited mare, trying to shake off her rider first on one side and then the other, pulled at the reins, and Vronsky tried in vain with voice and hand to soothe her.
仿佛她不知道该先放哪只脚，弗洛弗洛开始了，用她的长脖子拖着缰绳，就像踩在弹簧上一样，把她的骑手从一边摇到另一边。科德加快脚步，跟在他身后。兴奋的母马试图先从一侧甩掉骑手，然后再从另一侧甩开，它拉着缰绳，渥伦斯基徒劳地用声音和手试图安抚她。

They were just reaching the dammed-up stream on their way to the starting point. Several of the riders were in front and several behind, when suddenly Vronsky heard the sound of a horse galloping in the mud behind him, and he was overtaken by Mahotin on his white-legged, lop-eared Gladiator. Mahotin smiled, showing his long teeth, but Vronsky looked angrily at him. He did not like him, and regarded him now as his most formidable rival. He was angry with him for galloping past and exciting his mare. Frou-Frou started into a gallop, her left foot forward, made two bounds, and fretting at the tightened reins, passed into a jolting trot, bumping her rider up and down. Cord, too, scowled, and followed Vronsky almost at a trot.
他们在前往起点的路上刚刚到达被筑坝的小溪。几个骑手在前面，几个在后面，突然渥伦斯基听到身后泥泞中传来马匹驰骋的声音，他被骑着白腿垂耳角斗士的马霍廷追上了。马霍廷微笑着，露出长牙，但渥伦斯基愤怒地看着他。他不喜欢他，现在把他视为自己最强大的对手。他很生气，因为他飞驰而过，刺激了他的母马。弗鲁弗鲁开始疾驰，她的左脚向前，跳了两下，因为勒紧的缰绳而焦躁不安，她开始小跑，把骑手撞得上下颠簸。科德也皱起了眉头，几乎小跑着跟着渥伦斯基。

Chapter 25
第25章

There were seventeen officers in all riding in this race. The race course was a large three-mile ring of the form of an ellipse in front of the pavilion. On this course nine obstacles had been arranged: the stream, a big and solid barrier five feet high, just before the pavilion, a dry ditch, a ditch full of water, a precipitous slope, an Irish barricade (one of the most difficult obstacles, consisting of a mound fenced with brushwood, beyond which was a ditch out of sight for the horses, so that the horse had to clear both obstacles or might be killed); then two more ditches filled with water, and one dry one; and the end of the race was just facing the pavilion. But the race began not in the ring, but two hundred yards away from it, and in that part of the course was the first obstacle, a dammed-up stream, seven feet in breadth, which the racers could leap or wade through as they preferred.
参加这次比赛的共有十七名军官。赛马场是展馆前一个椭圆形的三英里大环。这条赛道上设置了九个障碍：溪流、展馆前五英尺高的又大又坚固的障碍、一条干涸的沟渠、一条充满水的沟渠、一个陡峭的斜坡、一个爱尔兰路障（最困难的障碍之一） ，由一个用灌木丛围起来的土丘组成，土丘后面有一条马看不见的沟渠，因此马必须清除这两个障碍，否则可能会被杀死）；然后另外两条沟渠充满水，一条干涸；而比赛的终点正好正对着展馆。但比赛不是在擂台上开始的，而是在距离擂台两百码的地方开始的，在这部分赛道上有第一个障碍，一条七英尺宽的筑坝小溪，参赛者可以在比赛时跳过或涉水通过。首选。

Three times they were ranged ready to start, but each time some horse thrust itself out of line, and they had to begin again. The umpire who was starting them, Colonel Sestrin, was beginning to lose his temper, when at last for the fourth time he shouted ‘Away!’ and the racers started.
他们有三次排好队准备出发，但每次都有马儿冲出队伍，他们就不得不重新开始。为比赛发令的裁判塞斯特林上校开始发脾气，最后他第四次大喊“走开！”，比赛开始了。

Every eye, every opera glass, was turned on the brightly colored group of riders at the moment they were in line to start.
当他们排队出发的那一刻，每一双眼睛、每一块望远镜都集中在这群色彩鲜艳的骑手身上。

‘They’re off! They’re starting!’ was heard on all sides after the hush of expectation.
‘他们走了！在一片期待的寂静之后，四面八方都听到了“他们开始了！”的声音。

And little groups and solitary figures among the public began running from place to place to get a better view. In the very first minute the close group of horsemen drew out, and it could be seen that they were approaching the stream in twos and threes and one behind another. To the spectators it seemed as though they had all started simultaneously, but to the racers there were seconds of difference that had great value to them.
公众中的小团体和孤独的人开始从一个地方跑到另一个地方，以获得更好的视野。就在第一分钟，密密麻麻的骑兵队伍就开始了，可以看到他们三三两两、一前一后地向溪流逼近。对于观众来说，似乎他们都是同时出发的，但对于赛车手来说，几秒钟的差异对他们来说具有很大的价值。

Frou-Frou, excited and over-nervous, had lost the first moment, and several horses had started before her, but before reaching the stream, Vronsky, who was holding in the mare with all his force as she tugged at the bridle, easily overtook three, and there were left in front of him Mahotin’s chestnut Gladiator, whose hind-quarters were moving lightly and rhythmically up and down exactly in front of Vronsky, and in front of all, the dainty mare Diana bearing Kuzovlev more dead than alive.
弗鲁弗鲁兴奋又过度紧张，失去了第一时间，几匹马在她前面开始了，但在到达小溪之前，渥伦斯基用尽全身力气拉住了母马，她拉着缰绳，轻松地追上了三人，在他前面留下了马霍金的栗色角斗士，它的后躯在渥伦斯基的正前方轻轻地、有节奏地上下移动，而在所有人的前面，是那匹娇嫩的母马戴安娜，它背着库佐夫列夫，死了比活了。

For the first instant Vronsky was not master either of himself or his mare. Up to the first obstacle, the stream, he could not guide the motions of his mare.
渥伦斯基第一次不再是他自己或他的母马的主人。直到第一个障碍物——小溪，他无法引导母马的动作。

Gladiator and Diana came up to it together and almost at the same instant; simultaneously they rose above the stream and flew across to the other side; Frou-Frou darted after them, as if flying; but at the very moment when Vronsky felt himself in the air, he suddenly saw almost under his mare’s hoofs Kuzovlev, who was floundering with Diana on the further side of the stream. (Kuzovlev had let go the reins as he took the leap, and the mare had sent him flying over her head.) Those details Vronsky learned later; at the moment all he saw was that just under him, where Frou-Frou must alight, Diana’s legs or head might be in the way. But Frou-Frou drew up her legs and back in the very act of leaping, like a falling cat, and, clearing the other mare, alighted beyond her.
角斗士和戴安娜几乎同时赶到了。与此同时，它们升到了溪流之上，飞到了对岸。芙洛芙洛像飞一样跟在他们后面飞奔。但就在渥伦斯基感觉到自己在空中的那一刻，他突然看到几乎在他的母马蹄下的库佐夫列夫，库佐夫列夫正在溪流的另一边与戴安娜一起挣扎。 （库佐夫列夫在跳跃时松开了缰绳，母马把他从她的头上飞了过去。） 这些细节是渥伦斯基后来才知道的。此刻，他只看到就在他脚下，弗鲁弗鲁必须下车的地方，戴安娜的腿或头可能挡住了路。但弗洛弗洛在跳跃时收起双腿和背部，就像一只坠落的猫，然后避开了另一匹母马，落在了她身旁。

‘O the darling!’ thought Vronsky.
“噢，亲爱的！”渥伦斯基想。

After crossing the stream Vronsky had complete control of his mare, and began holding her in, intending to cross the great barrier behind Mahotin, and to try to overtake him in the clear ground of about five hundred yards that followed it.
渡过小溪后，渥伦斯基完全控制了他的母马，开始拉住她，打算越过马霍廷身后的巨大障碍，并试图在障碍物后面约五百码的空地上超越他。

The great barrier stood just in front of the imperial pavilion. The Tsar and the whole court and crowds of people were all gazing at them—at him, and Mahotin a length ahead of him, as they drew near the ‘devil,’ as the solid barrier was called. Vronsky was aware of those eyes fastened upon him from all sides, but he saw nothing except the ears and neck of his own mare, the ground racing to meet him, and the back and white legs of Gladiator beating time swiftly before him, and keeping always the same distance ahead. Gladiator rose, with no sound of knocking against anything. With a wave of his short tail he disappeared from Vronsky’s sight.
那巨大的结界，就矗立在皇阁的前方。沙皇、整个宫廷和人群都在注视着他们——注视着他，注视着他前面一段距离的马霍廷，他们正在接近“魔鬼”——这道坚固的屏障被称为“魔鬼”。渥伦斯基意识到那些目光从四面八方注视着他，但除了他自己母马的耳朵和脖子，大地急速迎面而来，角斗士的后背和白色腿在他面前快速地拍打着时间，他什么也没看到。前方始终保持相同的距离。角斗士站了起来，没有撞到任何东西的声音。他的短尾巴一挥，就消失在渥伦斯基的视线中。

‘Bravo!’ cried a voice.
“太棒了！”一个声音喊道。

At the same instant, under Vronsky’s eyes, right before him flashed the palings of the barrier. Without the slightest change in her action his mare flew over it; the palings vanished, and he heard only a crash behind him. The mare, excited by Gladiator’s keeping ahead, had risen too soon before the barrier, and grazed it with her hind hoofs. But her pace never changed, and Vronsky, feeling a spatter of mud in his face, realized that he was once more the same distance from Gladiator. Once more he perceived in front of him the same back and short tail, and again the same swiftly moving white legs that got no further away.
与此同时，在渥伦斯基的眼前，就在他面前，栅栏的栅栏闪现了出来。她的动作没有丝毫变化，他的母马飞过了它。栅栏消失了，他只听到身后传来撞击声。母马因角斗士的领先而兴奋不已，在障碍物前站得太快，用后蹄擦过障碍物。但她的步伐从未改变，渥伦斯基感觉到脸上飞溅着泥浆，意识到他再次与角斗士保持同样的距离。他再一次看到前面有同样的背部和短尾巴，还有同样快速移动的白色腿，但没有走得更远。

At the very moment when Vronsky thought that now was the time to overtake Mahotin, Frou-Frou herself, understanding his thoughts, without any incitement on his part, gained ground considerably, and began getting alongside of Mahotin on the most favorable side, close to the inner cord. Mahotin would not let her pass that side. Vronsky had hardly formed the thought that he could perhaps pass on the outer side, when Frou-Frou shifted her pace and began overtaking him on the other side. Frou-Frou’s shoulder, beginning by now to be dark with sweat, was even with Gladiator’s back. For a few lengths they moved evenly. But before the obstacle they were approaching, Vronsky began working at the reins, anxious to avoid having to take the outer circle, and swiftly passed Mahotin just upon the declivity. He caught a glimpse of his mud-stained face as he flashed by. He even fancied that he smiled. Vronsky passed Mahotin, but he was immediately aware of him close upon him, and he never ceased hearing the even-thudding hoofs and the rapid and still quite fresh breathing of Gladiator.
就在渥伦斯基认为现在是超越马霍廷的时候，弗鲁弗鲁本人在没有任何煽动的情况下理解了他的想法，取得了很大的进展，并开始在最有利的一边与马霍廷并肩，接近马霍廷。内绳。马霍廷不会让她经过那一边。渥伦斯基刚刚想到自己也许可以从外侧超越，弗鲁-弗鲁就改变了步伐，开始在另一侧超越他。弗鲁弗鲁的肩膀现在已经开始因汗水而变黑，但与角斗士的后背持平。在一段时间内，它们均匀地移动。但在他们接近障碍物之前，渥伦斯基开始拉缰绳，急于避免必须采取外圈，并在斜坡上迅速超越了马霍廷。当他闪过时，他瞥见了他沾满泥土的脸。他甚至觉得他在微笑。渥伦斯基经过了马霍廷，但他立即意识到他就在他身边，他不断听到角斗士均匀的马蹄声和急促而清新的呼吸声。

The next two obstacles, the water course and the barrier, were easily crossed, but Vronsky began to hear the snorting and thud of Gladiator closer upon him. He urged on his mare, and to his delight felt that she easily quickened her pace, and the thud of Gladiator’s hoofs was again heard at the same distance away.
接下来的两个障碍，水道和障碍物，很容易越过，但渥伦斯基开始听到角斗士的鼻息声和重击声离他更近了。他催促着他的母马，令他高兴的是，她轻松地加快了步伐，在同样的距离处再次听到了角斗士马蹄的轰鸣声。

Vronsky was at the head of the race, just as he wanted to be and as Cord had advised, and now he felt sure of being the winner. His excitement, his delight, and his tenderness for Frou-Frou grew keener and keener. He longed to look round again, but he did not dare do this, and tried to be cool and not to urge on his mare so to keep the same reserve of force in her as he felt that Gladiator still kept. There remained only one obstacle, the most difficult; if he could cross it ahead of the others he would come in first. He was flying towards the Irish barricade, Frou-Frou and he both together saw the barricade in the distance, and both the man and the mare had a moment’s hesitation. He saw the uncertainty in the mare’s ears and lifted the whip, but at the same time felt that his fears were groundless; the mare knew what was wanted. She quickened her pace and rose smoothly, just as he had fancied she would, and as she left the ground gave herself up to the force of her rush, which carried her far beyond the ditch; and with the same rhythm, without effort, with the same leg forward, Frou-Frou fell back into her pace again.
渥伦斯基在比赛中处于领先地位，正如他所希望的那样，也正如科德所建议的那样，现在他确信自己会成为胜利者。他的兴奋，他的喜悦，他对芙鲁芙鲁的温柔越来越强烈。他渴望再次环顾四周，但他不敢这样做，并试图保持冷静，不要催促他的母马，以便让她保持同样的力量储备，就像他认为角斗士仍然保持的那样。现在只剩下一个障碍，也是最困难的一个：如果他能先于其他人穿过它，他就会第一个进来。他正飞向爱尔兰的路障，弗鲁弗鲁和他一起看到了远处的路障，男人和母马都犹豫了片刻。他看到母马耳朵里的犹豫，举起了鞭子，但同时又觉得自己的担心是多余的。母马知道自己想要什么。她加快了步伐，平稳地站了起来，正如他所想象的那样，当她离开地面时，她屈服于她冲刺的力量，这把她带到了沟渠之外。以同样的节奏，毫不费力，同样的腿向前，弗鲁弗鲁又回到了原来的节奏。

‘Bravo, Vronsky!’ he heard shouts from a knot of men—he knew they were his friends in the regiment—who were standing at the obstacle. He could not fail to recognize Yashvin’s voice though he did not see him.
“太棒了，渥伦斯基！”他听到站在障碍物旁的一群人喊道——他知道他们是他在团里的朋友。尽管他没有看到亚什文，但他不可能认不出他的声音。

‘O my sweet!’ he said inwardly to Frou-Frou, as he listened for what was happening behind. ‘He’s cleared it!’ he thought, catching the thud of Gladiator’s hoofs behind him. There remained only the last ditch, filled with water and five feet wide. Vronsky did not even look at it, but anxious to get in a long way first began sawing away at the reins, lifting the mare’s head and letting it go in time with her paces. He felt that the mare was at her very last reserve of strength; not her neck and shoulders merely were wet, but the sweat was standing in drops on her mane, her head, her sharp ears, and her breath came in short, sharp gasps. But he knew that she had strength left more than enough for the remaining five hundred yards. It was only from feeling himself nearer the ground and from the peculiar smoothness of his motion that Vronsky knew how greatly the mare had quickened her pace. She flew over the ditch as though not noticing it. She flew over it like a bird; but at the same instant Vronsky, to his horror, felt that he had failed to keep up with the mare’s pace, that he had, he did not know how, made a fearful, unpardonable mistake, in recovering his seat in the saddle. All at once his position had shifted and he knew that something awful had happened. He could not yet make out what had happened, when the white legs of a chestnut horse flashed by close to him, and Mahotin passed at a swift gallop. Vronsky was touching the ground with one foot, and his mare was sinking on that foot. He just had time to free his leg when she fell on one side, gasping painfully, and, making vain efforts to rise with her delicate, soaking neck, she fluttered on the ground at his feet like a shot bird. The clumsy movement made by Vronsky had broken her back. But that he only knew much later. At that moment he knew only that Mahotin had flown swiftly by, while he stood staggering alone on the muddy, motionless ground, and Frou-Frou lay gasping before him, bending her head back and gazing at him with her exquisite eyes. Still unable to realize what had happened, Vronsky tugged at his mare’s reins. Again she struggled all over like a fish, and her shoulders setting the saddle heaving, she rose on her front legs but unable to lift her back, she quivered all over and again fell on her side. With a face hideous with passion, his lower jaw trembling, and his cheeks white, Vronsky kicked her with his heel in the stomach and again fell to tugging at the rein. She did not stir, but thrusting her nose into the ground, she simply gazed at her master with her speaking eyes.
“哦，我的宝贝！”他一边听着后面发生的事情，一边对芙鲁芙鲁说道。 “他已经完成任务了！”他一边想，一边听到身后角斗士的蹄声。只剩下最后一条沟渠，里面充满了水，五英尺宽。渥伦斯基甚至没有看它，但急于想走得更远，开始锯开缰绳，抬起母马的头，并随着她的步伐而放开。他觉得母马已经剩下最后的力气了。不仅仅是她的脖子和肩膀湿了，汗水还滴在她的鬃毛、她的头上、她尖利的耳朵上，她的呼吸急促而急促。但他知道，她剩下的力气，足以走完剩下的五百码。只有感觉到自己离地面越来越近，而且动作异常平稳，渥伦斯基才知道母马的步伐加快了多少。她仿佛没有注意到一样飞过沟渠。她像小鸟一样飞过它；但与此同时，令渥伦斯基惊恐的是，他觉得自己没能跟上母马的步伐，他不知道怎么在坐回马鞍上时犯了一个可怕的、不可原谅的错误。突然他的立场发生了转变，他知道发生了可怕的事情。他还没弄清楚发生了什么事，一匹栗色马的白色腿从他身边一闪而过，马霍廷疾驰而过。渥伦斯基一只脚着地，他的母马那只脚正在下沉。他刚来得及松开他的腿，她就倒在一边，痛苦地喘息着，她徒劳地试图用她娇嫩、湿透的脖子站起来，她像一只被射中的小鸟一样在他脚边的地上扑腾着。渥伦斯基笨拙的动作弄断了她的背。 但这是他很久以后才知道的。那一刻他只知道马霍廷已经飞快地飞过，而他独自摇摇晃晃地站在泥泞的、一动不动的地面上，芙洛芙洛躺在他面前喘着粗气，仰着头，用她那双精致的眼睛看着他。渥伦斯基仍然无法意识到发生了什么事，他拉着母马的缰绳。她又像鱼一样全身挣扎，肩膀使马鞍起伏，前腿起身，背却抬不起来，浑身颤抖，又侧倒在地。渥伦斯基的脸色因激情而丑陋，下颌颤抖，脸颊苍白，用脚后跟踢了她的肚子，然后再次拉扯缰绳。她没有动，只是把鼻子埋在地上，只是用会说话的眼睛看着自己的主人。

‘A—a—a!’ groaned Vronsky, clutching at his head. ‘Ah! what have I done!’ he cried. ‘The race lost! And my fault! shameful, unpardonable! And the poor darling, ruined mare! Ah! what have I done!’
“啊——啊——啊！”渥伦斯基捂着头呻吟道。 '啊！ “我做了什么！”他喊道。 ‘比赛输了！我的错！可耻，不可原谅！还有可怜的宝贝，被毁的母马！啊!我做了什么！'

A crowd of men, a doctor and his assistant, the officers of his regiment, ran up to him. To his misery he felt that he was whole and unhurt. The mare had broken her back, and it was decided to shoot her. Vronsky could not answer questions, could not speak to anyone. He turned, and without picking up his cap that had fallen off, walked away from the race course, not knowing where he was going. He felt utterly wretched. For the first time in his life he knew the bitterest sort of misfortune, misfortune beyond remedy, and caused by his own fault.
一群人，包括一名医生和他的助手，以及他所在团的军官，向他跑来。令他痛苦的是，他觉得自己很完整，没有受伤。那匹母马的背部受伤了，人们决定开枪射杀她。渥伦斯基无法回答问题，也无法与任何人交谈。他转身，没有捡起掉落的帽子，就离开了赛马场，不知道要去哪里。他感到自己彻底可怜了。他生平第一次知道了最痛苦的不幸，这种不幸是无法挽回的，而且是由他自己的过失造成的。

Yashvin overtook him with his cap, and led him home, and half an hour later Vronsky had regained his self-possession. But the memory of that race remained for long in his heart, the cruelest and bitterest memory of his life.
亚什温带着帽子追上了他，带他回家，半小时后渥伦斯基恢复了镇定。但那场比赛的记忆却长久地留在了他的心里，是他一生中最残酷、最痛苦的记忆。

Chapter 26
第26章

The external relations of Alexey Alexandrovitch and his wife had remained unchanged. The sole difference lay in the fact that he was more busily occupied than ever. As in former years, at the beginning of the spring he had gone to a foreign watering-place for the sake of his health, deranged by the winter’s work that every year grew heavier. And just as always he returned in July and at once fell to work as usual with increased energy. As usual, too, his wife had moved for the summer to a villa out of town, while he remained in Petersburg. From the date of their conversation after the party at Princess Tverskaya’s he had never spoken again to Anna of his suspicions and his jealousies, and that habitual tone of his bantering mimicry was the most convenient tone possible for his present attitude to his wife. He was a little colder to his wife. He simply seemed to be slightly displeased with her for that first midnight conversation, which she had repelled. In his attitude to her there was a shade of vexation, but nothing more. ‘You would not be open with me,’ he seemed to say, mentally addressing her; ‘so much the worse for you. Now you may beg as you please, but I won’t be open with you. So much the worse for you!’ he said mentally, like a man who, after vainly attempting to extinguish a fire, should fly in a rage with his vain efforts and say, ‘Oh, very well then! you shall burn for this!’ This man, so subtle and astute in official life, did not realize all the senselessness of such an attitude to his wife. He did not realize it, because it was too terrible to him to realize his actual position, and he shut down and locked and sealed up in his heart that secret place where lay hid his feelings towards his family, that is, his wife and son. He who had been such a careful father, had from the end of that winter become peculiarly frigid to his son, and adopted to him just the same bantering tone he used with his wife. ‘Aha, young man!’ was the greeting with which he met him.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇和他的妻子的对外关系保持不变。唯一的区别在于，他比以往任何时候都更加忙碌。和往年一样，开春的时候，他为了身体健康，去了一处外国水源，冬天的工作一年比一年繁重，他心烦意乱。和往常一样，他在七月份回来了，立即像往常一样投入到工作中，精力更加充沛。和往常一样，他的妻子搬到城外的一栋别墅过夏天，而他则留在彼得堡。自从他们在特维斯卡娅公主家的聚会结束后谈话那天起，他就再也没有向安娜说过他的怀疑和嫉妒，而他那习惯性的戏谑模仿语气对于他目前对妻子的态度来说是最合适的语气。他对妻子有点冷淡。他似乎只是对她第一次半夜的谈话有些不满，而她却拒绝了。他对她的态度里有一丝恼怒，但仅此而已。 “你不会对我敞开心扉，”他似乎在心里对她说。 ‘对你来说更糟糕了。现在你可以随心所欲地乞求，但我不会对你敞开心扉。对你来说就更糟糕了！”他在心里说道，就像一个人在徒劳地试图扑灭大火之后，会因自己徒劳的努力而勃然大怒，并说：“哦，那么好吧！这个在官场生活中如此狡猾和精明的男人并没有意识到对他妻子的这种态度是多么愚蠢。他没有意识到，因为意识到自己的真实处境对他来说太可怕了，他关闭、锁住、封印了他内心那个隐藏着他对家人，即妻子和儿子感情的秘密地方。 。 他曾经是一个如此细心的父亲，从那年冬末开始，他对儿子变得格外冷淡，对他也采取了与妻子相同的戏谑语气。 “啊哈，年轻人！”这是他见到他时的问候语。

Alexey Alexandrovitch asserted and believed that he had never in any previous year had so much official business as that year. But he was not aware that he sought work for himself that year, that this was one of the means for keeping shut that secret place where lay hid his feelings towards his wife and son and his thoughts about them, which became more terrible the longer they lay there. If anyone had had the right to ask Alexey Alexandrovitch what he thought of his wife’s behavior, the mild and peaceable Alexey Alexandrovitch would have made no answer, but he would have been greatly angered with any man who should question him on that subject. For this reason there positively came into Alexey Alexandrovitch’s face a look of haughtiness and severity whenever anyone inquired after his wife’s health. Alexey Alexandrovitch did not want to think at all about his wife’s behavior, and he actually succeeded in not thinking about it at all.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇断言并相信，他在过去的任何一年中都没有像那一年那样有如此多的公务。但他并不知道那一年他为自己找了一份工作，这是为了封锁那个秘密地方的手段之一，那里隐藏着他对妻子和儿子的感情和对他们的想法，随着时间的推移，这种感觉变得更加可怕。躺在那里。如果有人有权问阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇对他妻子的行为有何看法，温和而平和的阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇不会回答，但他会对任何在这个问题上询问他的人感到非常愤怒。因此，每当有人询问他妻子的健康状况时，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇的脸上就会显露出傲慢和严厉的表情。阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇根本不想去想他妻子的行为，而且他实际上成功地根本不去想它。

Alexey Alexandrovitch’s permanent summer villa was in Peterhof, and the Countess Lidia Ivanovna used as a rule to spend the summer there, close to Anna, and constantly seeing her. That year Countess Lidia Ivanovna declined to settle in Peterhof, was not once at Anna Arkadyevna’s, and in conversation with Alexey Alexandrovitch hinted at the unsuitability of Anna’s close intimacy with Betsy and Vronsky. Alexey Alexandrovitch sternly cut her short, roundly declaring his wife to be above suspicion, and from that time began to avoid Countess Lidia Ivanovna. He did not want to see, and did not see, that many people in society cast dubious glances on his wife; he did not want to understand, and did not understand, why his wife had so particularly insisted on staying at Tsarskoe, where Betsy was staying, and not far from the camp of Vronsky’s regiment. He did not allow himself to think about it, and he did not think about it; but all the same though he never admitted it to himself, and had no proofs, not even suspicious evidence, in the bottom of his heart he knew beyond all doubt that he was a deceived husband, and he was profoundly miserable about it.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇的永久避暑别墅位于彼得霍夫，莉迪亚·伊万诺夫娜伯爵夫人通常在那里度过夏天，靠近安娜，并经常见到她。那一年，莉迪亚·伊万诺夫娜伯爵夫人拒绝在彼得霍夫定居，一次也没有去过安娜·阿尔卡季耶夫娜家，在与阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇的谈话中，她暗示安娜与贝特西和渥伦斯基的亲密关系是不合适的。阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇严厉地打断了她的话，断然宣称他的妻子没有嫌疑，从那时起，他就开始避开莉迪亚·伊万诺夫娜伯爵夫人。他不想看到，也没有看到社会上很多人对他的妻子投来怀疑的目光；他不想明白，也不明白，为什么他的妻子如此特别坚持留在贝特西住的沙斯科耶，而且离渥伦斯基团的营地不远。他不允许自己去想，他也没有去想。尽管他从来没有向自己承认过，也没有任何证据，甚至连可疑的证据都没有，但他内心深处却毫无疑问地知道自己是一个被欺骗的丈夫，并且为此深感痛苦。

How often during those eight years of happy life with his wife Alexey Alexandrovitch had looked at other men’s faithless wives and other deceived husbands and asked himself: ‘How can people descend to that? how is it they don’t put an end to such a hideous position?’ But now, when the misfortune had come upon himself, he was so far from thinking of putting an end to the position that he would not recognize it at all, would not recognize it just because it was too awful, too unnatural.
在与妻子阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇的八年幸福生活中，有多少次，他看着其他男人不忠的妻子和受欺骗的丈夫，并问自己：“人们怎么会沦落到这种地步呢？”他们怎么不结束这种可怕的处境呢？”但是现在，当不幸降临到自己身上时，他根本没有想到要结束这种处境，以至于他根本不承认这一点，不会仅仅因为它太可怕、太不自然而认出它。

Since his return from abroad Alexey Alexandrovitch had twice been at their country villa. Once he dined there, another time he spent the evening there with a party of friends, but he had not once stayed the night there, as it had been his habit to do in previous years.
自从阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇从国外回来后，曾两次到过他们的乡村别墅。有一次他在那里吃过饭，还有一次他和一群朋友在那里度过了一个晚上，但他没有像前几年那样在那里过夜。

The day of the races had been a very busy day for Alexey Alexandrovitch; but when mentally sketching out the day in the morning, he made up his mind to go to their country house to see his wife immediately after dinner, and from there to the races, which all the Court were to witness, and at which he was bound to be present. He was going to see his wife, because he had determined to see her once a week to keep up appearances. And besides, on that day, as it was the fifteenth, he had to give his wife some money for her expenses, according to their usual arrangement.
比赛当天对于阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇来说是非常忙碌的一天。但当他在心里勾勒出早上的一天时，他决定晚饭后立即去他们的乡间别墅看望他的妻子，然后从那里去参加比赛，所有法庭都将见证，他也参加了比赛。必然存在。他要去见他的妻子，因为他决定每周见她一次，以保持形象。而且，那天是正月十五，按照平时的安排，他还得给妻子一些钱，以供她花销。

With his habitual control over his thoughts, though he thought all this about his wife, he did not let his thoughts stray further in regard to her.
由于他习惯性地控制自己的思想，尽管他想到的都是他的妻子，但他并没有让自己的思想进一步偏离到她的身上。

That morning was a very full one for Alexey Alexandrovitch. The evening before, Countess Lidia Ivanovna had sent him a pamphlet by a celebrated traveler in China, who was staying in Petersburg, and with it she enclosed a note begging him to see the traveler himself, as he was an extremely interesting person from various points of view, and likely to be useful. Alexey Alexandrovitch had not had time to read the pamphlet through in the evening, and finished it in the morning. Then people began arriving with petitions, and there came the reports, interviews, appointments, dismissals, apportionment of rewards, pensions, grants, notes, the workaday round, as Alexey Alexandrovitch called it, that always took up so much time. Then there was private business of his own, a visit from the doctor and the steward who managed his property. The steward did not take up much time. He simply gave Alexey Alexandrovitch the money he needed together with a brief statement of the position of his affairs, which was not altogether satisfactory, as it had happened that during that year, owing to increased expenses, more had been paid out than usual, and there was a deficit. But the doctor, a celebrated Petersburg doctor, who was an intimate acquaintance of Alexey Alexandrovitch, took up a great deal of time. Alexey Alexandrovitch had not expected him that day, and was surprised at his visit, and still more so when the doctor questioned him very carefully about his health, listened to his breathing, and tapped at his liver. Alexey Alexandrovitch did not know that his friend Lidia Ivanovna, noticing that he was not as well as usual that year, had begged the doctor to go and examine him. ‘Do this for my sake,’ the Countess Lidia Ivanovna had said to him.
那天早上对阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇来说非常充实。前一天晚上，莉迪亚·伊万诺夫娜伯爵夫人给他寄了一本住在彼得堡的中国著名旅行家写的小册子，并附上一张纸条，恳求他亲自见见这位旅行者，因为从各方面来看，他都是一个非常有趣的人。观点，并且可能有用。阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇晚上没有时间读完这本小册子，早上就读完了。然后人们开始带着请愿书来，然后是报告、面试、任命、解雇、奖励分配、养老金、补助金、票据，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇所说的日常工作，总是占用很多时间。然后还有他自己的私人事务，医生和管理他财产的管家的来访。管家并没有占用太多时间。他只是给了阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇他需要的钱，并简要说明了他的事务状况，这并不完全令人满意，因为那一年，由于开支增加，支付的金额比平常多，并且存在赤字。但是这位医生是彼得堡的一位著名医生，也是阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇的熟人，他占用了很多时间。阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇没有预料到他会来，他对他的来访感到惊讶，尤其是当医生非常仔细地询问他的健康状况、听他的呼吸并敲击他的肝脏时，更感到惊讶。阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇并不知道，他的朋友莉迪亚·伊万诺夫娜注意到他那一年的身体状况不如平时，就央求医生去给他检查。 “为了我，请这样做，”伯爵夫人莉迪亚·伊万诺夫娜对他说。

‘I will do it for the sake of Russia, countess,’ replied the doctor.
“我会为了俄罗斯而这么做，伯爵夫人，”医生回答道。

‘A priceless man!’ said the Countess Lidia Ivanovna.
“一个无价之宝！”伯爵夫人莉迪亚·伊万诺芙娜说道。

The doctor was extremely dissatisfied with Alexey Alexandrovitch. He found the liver considerably enlarged, and the digestive powers weakened, while the course of mineral waters had been quite without effect. He prescribed more physical exercise as far as possible, and as far as possible less mental strain, and above all no worry—in other words, just what was as much out of Alexey Alexandrovitch’s power as abstaining from breathing. Then he withdrew, leaving in Alexey Alexandrovitch an unpleasant sense that something was wrong with him, and that there was no chance of curing it.
医生对阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇极为不满。他发现肝脏明显肿大，消化能力减弱，而矿泉水的疗程却毫无效果。他规定尽可能多进行体育锻炼，并尽可能减少精神紧张，最重要的是不要担心——换句话说，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇（Alexey Alexandrovitch）力所能及的事情就像戒断呼吸一样。然后他退出了，给阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇留下了一种不愉快的感觉，他觉得自己出了问题，而且没有治愈的机会。

As he was coming away, the doctor chanced to meet on the staircase an acquaintance of his, Sludin, who was secretary of Alexey Alexandrovitch’s department. They had been comrades at the university, and though they rarely met, they thought highly of each other and were excellent friends, and so there was no one to whom the doctor would have given his opinion of a patient so freely as to Sludin.
当他离开时，医生偶然在楼梯上遇见了他的熟人斯鲁丁，他是阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇部门的秘书。他们曾是大学里的同志，虽然很少见面，但彼此评价很高，是极好的朋友，所以没有人像斯鲁丁那样，医生会如此坦率地表达对病人的看法。

‘How glad I am you’ve been seeing him!’ said Sludin. ‘He’s not well, and I fancy.... Well, what do you think of him?’
“我很高兴你能见到他！”斯鲁丁说。 “他身体不太好，我想……那么，你觉得他怎么样？”

‘I’ll tell you,’ said the doctor, beckoning over Sludin’s head to his coachman to bring the carriage round. ‘It’s just this,’ said the doctor, taking a finger of his kid glove in his white hands and pulling it, ‘if you don’t strain the strings, and then try to break them, you’ll find it a difficult job; but strain a string to its very utmost, and the mere weight of one finger on the strained string will snap it. And with his close assiduity, his conscientious devotion to his work, he’s strained to the utmost; and there’s some outside burden weighing on him, and not a light one,’ concluded the doctor, raising his eyebrows significantly. ‘Will you be at the races?’ he added, as he sank into his seat in the carriage.
“我来告诉你，”医生一边说，一边越过斯鲁丁的头示意他的车夫把马车开过来。 “只是这样，”医生说，用白皙的双手握住小羊皮手套的一根手指，拉动它，“如果你不拉紧琴弦，然后尝试将它们折断，你会发现这是一项困难的工作。” ;但如果把一根弦拉到最大程度，只要一根手指压在拉紧的弦上，它就会折断。凭借他的勤奋和对工作的认真奉献，他竭尽全力； “他身上有一些外部负担，而且不轻。”医生扬起眉毛总结道。 “你会参加比赛吗？”他坐进马车的座位上补充道。

‘Yes, yes, to be sure; it does waste a lot of time,’ the doctor responded vaguely to some reply of Sludin’s he had not caught.
“是的，是的，当然； “这确实浪费了很多时间。”医生含糊地回答了斯鲁丁的一些他没有听到的回答。

Directly after the doctor, who had taken up so much time, came the celebrated traveler, and Alexey Alexandrovitch, by means of the pamphlet he had only just finished reading and his previous acquaintance with the subject, impressed the traveler by the depth of his knowledge of the subject and the breadth and enlightenment of his view of it.
紧接着那位花了很多时间的医生而来的是著名的旅行者，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇通过他刚刚读完的小册子和他之前对这个主题的了解，给旅行者留下了深刻的印象，他知识的深度以及他对这个主题的看法的广度和启发性。

At the same time as the traveler there was announced a provincial marshal of nobility on a visit to Petersburg, with whom Alexey Alexandrovitch had to have some conversation. After his departure, he had to finish the daily routine of business with his secretary, and then he still had to drive round to call on a certain great personage on a matter of grave and serious import. Alexey Alexandrovitch only just managed to be back by five o’clock, his dinner-hour, and after dining with his secretary, he invited him to drive with him to his country villa and to the races.
在旅行者的同时，宣布一位省级贵族元帅将访问彼得堡，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇必须与他进行一些交谈。走后，他还要和秘书处理完日常事务，然后还要开车去拜访某位大人物，谈一件重大的事情。阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇刚刚在五点钟（他的晚餐时间）回来，和他的秘书一起吃完饭后，他邀请他和他一起开车去他的乡村别墅和比赛。

Though he did not acknowledge it to himself, Alexey Alexandrovitch always tried nowadays to secure the presence of a third person in his interviews with his wife.
尽管阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇自己没有承认这一点，但他现在总是试图确保在与妻子会面时有第三者在场。

Chapter 27
第27章

Anna was upstairs, standing before the looking glass, and, with Annushka’s assistance, pinning the last ribbon on her gown when she heard carriage wheels crunching the gravel at the entrance.
安娜在楼上，站在镜子前，在安努什卡的帮助下，将最后一条丝带别在她的礼服上，这时她听到马车车轮碾压入口处碎石的声音。

‘It’s too early for Betsy,’ she thought, and glancing out of the window she caught sight of the carriage and the black hat of Alexey Alexandrovitch, and the ears that she knew so well sticking up each side of it. ‘How unlucky! Can he be going to stay the night?’ she wondered, and the thought of all that might come of such a chance struck her as so awful and terrible that, without dwelling on it for a moment, she went down to meet him with a bright and radiant face; and conscious of the presence of that spirit of falsehood and deceit in herself that she had come to know of late, she abandoned herself to that spirit and began talking, hardly knowing what she was saying.
“对贝特西来说还为时过早，”她想，向窗外望去，她看到了马车和阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇的黑帽子，还有她熟悉的耳朵竖在马车两侧。 ‘真倒霉啊！他能留下来过夜吗？”她想知道，想到这样一个机会可能会带来的一切，她觉得非常可怕，以至于她没有多想一会儿，就下楼去迎接他。容光焕发的脸庞；她意识到自己身上存在着最近才知道的那种虚伪和欺骗的精神，她屈服于这种精神，开始说话，几乎不知道自己在说什么。

‘Ah, how nice of you!’ she said, giving her husband her hand, and greeting Sludin, who was like one of the family, with a smile. ‘You’re staying the night, I hope?’ was the first word the spirit of falsehood prompted her to utter; ‘and now we’ll go together. Only it’s a pity I’ve promised Betsy. She’s coming for me.’
“啊，你真好！”她一边说，一边向丈夫伸出手，微笑着向斯鲁丁打招呼，斯鲁丁就像是家里的一员。 “我希望你要留下来过夜吗？”这是谎言之灵促使她说出的第一句话。 ‘现在我们一起去吧。只是遗憾的是我已经答应了贝琪。她来找我了。

Alexey Alexandrovitch knit his brows at Betsy’s name.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇听到贝特西的名字就皱起了眉头。

‘Oh, I’m not going to separate the inseparables,’ he said in his usual bantering tone. ‘I’m going with Mihail Vassilievitch. I’m ordered exercise by the doctors too. I’ll walk, and fancy myself at the springs again.’
“哦，我不会把这对不可分割的人分开，”他用惯常的戏谑语气说道。 “我要和米哈伊尔·瓦西里耶维奇一起去。医生也嘱咐我锻炼身体。我会走路，再次幻想自己在泉水里。

‘There’s no hurry,’ said Anna. ‘Would you like tea?’
“不着急，”安娜说。 “你想喝茶吗？”

She rang.
她按响了电话。

‘Bring in tea, and tell Seryozha that Alexey Alexandrovitch is here. Well, tell me, how have you been? Mihail Vassilievitch, you’ve not been to see me before. Look how lovely it is out on the terrace,’ she said, turning first to one and then to the other.
“把茶拿进来，告诉谢廖扎，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇在这里。好吧，告诉我，你过得怎么样？米哈伊尔·瓦西里耶维奇，你以前没见过我。看看外面的露台多可爱。”她说着，先转向一个，然后又转向另一个。

She spoke very simply and naturally, but too much and too fast. She was the more aware of this from noticing in the inquisitive look Mihail Vassilievitch turned on her that he was, as it were, keeping watch on her.
她说得很简单、自然，但太多、太快。当她注意到米哈伊尔·瓦西里耶维奇向她投来好奇的目光时，她更加意识到了这一点，因为他似乎在监视着她。

Mihail Vassilievitch promptly went out on the terrace.
米哈伊尔·瓦西里耶维奇立即走到露台上。

She sat down beside her husband.
她在丈夫身边坐下。

‘You don’t look quite well,’ she said.
“你看起来不太好，”她说。

‘Yes,’ he said; ‘the doctor’s been with me today and wasted an hour of my time. I feel that some one of our friends must have sent him: my health’s so precious, it seems.’
“是的，”他说。 “医生今天陪着我，浪费了我一个小时的时间。我觉得一定是我们的某个朋友派他来的：看来我的健康非常宝贵。

‘No; what did he say?’
'不;他说什么？'

She questioned him about his health and what he had been doing, and tried to persuade him to take a rest and come out to her.
她询问了他的健康状况和最近在做什么，并试图说服他休息一下并出来见她。

All this she said brightly, rapidly, and with a peculiar brilliance in her eyes. But Alexey Alexandrovitch did not now attach any special significance to this tone of hers. He heard only her words and gave them only the direct sense they bore. And he answered simply, though jestingly. There was nothing remarkable in all this conversation, but never after could Anna recall this brief scene without an agonizing pang of shame.
她说这一切的时候，语气明亮，语速很快，眼中闪烁着奇特的光彩。但阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇现在并没有对她的这种语气赋予任何特殊的意义。他只听到了她的话，也只给予了她们直接的感觉。他的回答很简单，虽然是开玩笑的。整个谈话并没有什么值得注意的地方，但安娜回想起这短暂的一幕，总是感到羞愧难当。

Seryozha came in preceded by his governess. If Alexey Alexandrovitch had allowed himself to observe he would have noticed the timid and bewildered eyes with which Seryozha glanced first at his father and then at his mother. But he would not see anything, and he did not see it.
谢廖扎在他的家庭教师前面进来。如果阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇允许自己观察的话，他一定会注意到谢廖扎先是看了他父亲，然后又看了他母亲的那双胆怯而困惑的眼睛。但他什么也看不到，他也没有看到。

‘Ah, the young man! He’s grown. Really, he’s getting quite a man. How are you, young man?’
‘啊，这个年轻人！他长大了。真的，他已经成为一个男人了。你好吗，年轻人？

And he gave his hand to the scared child. Seryozha had been shy of his father before, and now, ever since Alexey Alexandrovitch had taken to calling him young man, and since that insoluble question had occurred to him whether Vronsky were a friend or a foe, he avoided his father. He looked round towards his mother as though seeking shelter. It was only with his mother that he was at ease. Meanwhile, Alexey Alexandrovitch was holding his son by the shoulder while he was speaking to the governess, and Seryozha was so miserably uncomfortable that Anna saw he was on the point of tears.
他把手伸向那个害怕的孩子。谢廖扎以前一直对他的父亲感到害羞，而现在，自从阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇开始称他为年轻人，自从他想到渥伦斯基是朋友还是敌人这个无法解决的问题之后，他就回避了他的父亲。他扭头看向母亲，仿佛在寻求庇护。只有和妈妈在一起，他才安心。与此同时，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇在与家庭女教师说话时抓住了儿子的肩膀，谢廖扎非常不舒服，安娜看到他快要哭了。

Anna, who had flushed a little the instant her son came in, noticing that Seryozha was uncomfortable, got up hurriedly, took Alexey Alexandrovitch’s hand from her son’s shoulder, and kissing the boy, led him out onto the terrace, and quickly came back.
安娜一进来，脸就红了，她发现谢廖扎不舒服，连忙站起来，从儿子肩上接过阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇的手，亲吻了孩子，领着他到了露台上，然后很快又回来了。

‘It’s time to start, though,’ said she, glancing at her watch. ‘How is it Betsy doesn’t come?...’
“不过，是时候开始了。”她看了一眼手表说道。 “贝特西怎么还没来？……”

‘Yes,’ said Alexey Alexandrovitch, and getting up, he folded his hands and cracked his fingers. ‘I’ve come to bring you some money, too, for nightingales, we know, can’t live on fairy tales,’ he said. ‘You want it, I expect?’
“是的，”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇说，然后站起来，双手交叉，打响了手指。 “我来也是为了给你带来一些钱，因为我们知道，夜莺不能靠童话生活，”他说。 “我想你想要它吗？”

‘No, I don’t...yes, I do,’ she said, not looking at him, and crimsoning to the roots of her hair. ‘But you’ll come back here after the races, I suppose?’
“不，我不……是的，我愿意。”她说，没有看他，脸都红到发根了。 “但我想，比赛结束后你会回到这里吧？”

‘Oh, yes!’ answered Alexey Alexandrovitch. ‘And here’s the glory of Peterhof, Princess Tverskaya,’ he added, looking out of the window at the elegant English carriage with the tiny seats placed extremely high. ‘What elegance! Charming! Well, let us be starting too, then.’
“哦，是的！”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇回答。 “这就是彼得夏宫的荣耀，特维尔斯卡娅公主，”他补充道，看着窗外优雅的英国马车，小座位摆得极高。 ‘多么优雅啊！迷人！好吧，那么我们也开始吧。

Princess Tverskaya did not get out of her carriage, but her groom, in high boots, a cape, and black hat, darted out at the entrance.
特维尔斯卡娅公主没有下马车，但她的新郎穿着高筒靴，披着斗篷，戴着黑帽子，从入口处冲了出来。

‘I’m going; good-bye!’ said Anna, and kissing her son, she went up to Alexey Alexandrovitch and held out her hand to him. ‘It was ever so nice of you to come.’
'我要去;再见！”安娜说着，吻了吻她的儿子，走到阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇跟前，向他伸出了手。 “你能来真是太好了。”

Alexey Alexandrovitch kissed her hand.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇吻了她的手。

‘Well, au revoir, then! You’ll come back for some tea; that’s delightful!’ she said, and went out, gay and radiant. But as soon as she no longer saw him, she was aware of the spot on her hand that his lips had touched, and she shuddered with repulsion.
‘那么，再见吧！你会回来喝点茶；太棒了！”她说着就出去了，心情愉快，容光焕发。但当她不再看到他的时候，她就意识到自己手上被他嘴唇碰过的地方，她因厌恶而颤抖。

Chapter 28
第28章

When Alexey Alexandrovitch reached the race-course, Anna was already sitting in the pavilion beside Betsy, in that pavilion where all the highest society had gathered. She caught sight of her husband in the distance. Two men, her husband and her lover, were the two centers of her existence, and unaided by her external senses she was aware of their nearness. She was aware of her husband approaching a long way off, and she could not help following him in the surging crowd in the midst of which he was moving. She watched his progress towards the pavilion, saw him now responding condescendingly to an ingratiating bow, now exchanging friendly, nonchalant greetings with his equals, now assiduously trying to catch the eye of some great one of this world, and taking off his big round hat that squeezed the tips of his ears. All these ways of his she knew, and all were hateful to her. ‘Nothing but ambition, nothing but the desire to get on, that’s all there is in his soul,’ she thought; ‘as for these lofty ideals, love of culture, religion, they are only so many tools for getting on.’
当阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇到达赛马场时，安娜已经坐在贝特西旁边的凉亭里，在那个凉亭里，所有上流社会都聚集在一起。她远远地看见了她的丈夫。两个男人，她的丈夫和她的情人，是她存在的两个中心，无需外在感官的帮助，她就能意识到他们的接近。她察觉到丈夫已经远远地走近了，她情不自禁地跟着他在汹涌的人群中走来走去。她看着他朝亭子走去，看到他时而居高临下地讨好一鞠躬，时而与同辈们友好地、漫不经心地打招呼，时而孜孜不倦地试图吸引世界上某个伟人的目光，然后摘下他的大圆帽。挤压了他的耳尖。他的这些做法她都知道，而且都让她讨厌。 “除了野心，除了上进的欲望，什么也没有，这就是他灵魂中的全部，”她想。 “至于这些崇高的理想、对文化的热爱、对宗教的热爱，它们只是维持生活的工具而已。”

From his glances towards the ladies’ pavilion (he was staring straight at her, but did not distinguish his wife in the sea of muslin, ribbons, feathers, parasols and flowers) she saw that he was looking for her, but she purposely avoided noticing him.
从他看向女士亭的目光（他直视着她，却没有在细布、丝带、羽毛、遮阳伞和鲜花的海洋中辨认出他的妻子），她看出他在找她，但她故意回避。他。

‘Alexey Alexandrovitch!’ Princess Betsy called to him; ‘I’m sure you don’t see your wife: here she is.’
“阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇！”贝特西公主对他喊道。 “我确信你没有看到你的妻子：她就在这里。”

He smiled his chilly smile.
他露出冷冷的笑容。

‘There’s so much splendor here that one’s eyes are dazzled,’ he said, and he went into the pavilion. He smiled to his wife as a man should smile on meeting his wife after only just parting from her, and greeted the princess and other acquaintances, giving to each what was due—that is to say, jesting with the ladies and dealing out friendly greetings among the men. Below, near the pavilion, was standing an adjutant-general of whom Alexey Alexandrovitch had a high opinion, noted for his intelligence and culture. Alexey Alexandrovitch entered into conversation with him.
他说：“这里金碧辉煌，让人眼花缭乱。”说完就走进了亭子。他对自己的妻子微笑，就像一个男人刚与妻子分手后见面时应有的微笑一样，向公主和其他熟人打招呼，各尽所能，即与女士们开玩笑，友好地打招呼。男人之中。下面，靠近展馆的地方，站着一位副将，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇对他评价很高，以智慧和文化着称。阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇开始与他交谈。

There was an interval between the races, and so nothing hindered conversation. The adjutant-general expressed his disapproval of races. Alexey Alexandrovitch replied defending them. Anna heard his high, measured tones, not losing one word, and every word struck her as false, and stabbed her ears with pain.
比赛之间有休息时间，所以没有什么妨碍谈话。副官表达了他对种族竞赛的不满。阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇回答说为他们辩护。安娜听见他语气高亢、分寸，一个字也没有漏掉，每一个字都让她觉得是假话，刺痛了她的耳朵。

When the three-mile steeplechase was beginning, she bent forward and gazed with fixed eyes at Vronsky as he went up to his horse and mounted, and at the same time she heard that loathsome, never-ceasing voice of her husband. She was in an agony of terror for Vronsky, but a still greater agony was the never-ceasing, as it seemed to her, stream of her husband’s shrill voice with its familiar intonations.
当三英里的障碍赛开始时，她弯下身子，目不转睛地盯着渥伦斯基，他走上马背上马，同时她听到了她丈夫那令人厌恶的、不停歇的声音。她为渥伦斯基感到恐惧而痛苦，但更大的痛苦是她丈夫那熟悉的语调、尖锐的声音源源不断地传来，在她看来。

‘I’m a wicked woman, a lost woman,’ she thought; ‘but I don’t like lying, I can’t endure falsehood, while as for him (her husband) it’s the breath of his life—falsehood. He knows all about it, he sees it all; what does he care if he can talk so calmly? If he were to kill me, if he were to kill Vronsky, I might respect him. No, all he wants is falsehood and propriety,’ Anna said to herself, not considering exactly what it was she wanted of her husband, and how she would have liked to see him behave. She did not understand either that Alexey Alexandrovitch’s peculiar loquacity that day, so exasperating to her, was merely the expression of his inward distress and uneasiness. As a child that has been hurt skips about, putting all his muscles into movement to drown the pain, in the same way Alexey Alexandrovitch needed mental exercise to drown the thoughts of his wife that in her presence and in Vronsky’s, and with the continual iteration of his name, would force themselves on his attention. And it was as natural for him to talk well and cleverly, as it is natural for a child to skip about. He was saying:
“我是一个邪恶的女人，一个迷失的女人，”她想。 “但我不喜欢说谎，我无法忍受谎言，而对于他（她的丈夫）来说，谎言就是他生命的气息。”他知道这一切，他看到这一切；如果他能如此平静地说话，他还关心什么？如果他杀了我，如果他杀了渥伦斯基，我可能会尊重他。不，他想要的只是谎言和礼节。”安娜自言自语道，并没有考虑到底她对丈夫的要求是什么，以及她希望看到他的表现如何。她也不明白，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇那天奇特的喋喋不休，让她如此恼怒，只不过是他内心痛苦和不安的表现。就像一个受伤的孩子跳来跳去，让所有的肌肉都运动起来以淹没疼痛一样，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇也需要精神锻炼来淹没他妻子在场和渥伦斯基的思绪，并不断迭代他的名字，会迫使自己引起他的注意。他说话流利、聪明，就像小孩子蹦蹦跳跳一样，是很自然的事。他是在说：

‘Danger in the races of officers, of cavalry men, is an essential element in the race. If England can point to the most brilliant feats of cavalry in military history, it is simply owing to the fact that she has historically developed this force both in beasts and in men. Sport has, in my opinion, a great value, and as is always the case, we see nothing but what is most superficial.’
“在军官和骑兵的比赛中，危险是比赛的一个基本要素。如果英国能够指出军事史上最辉煌的骑兵功绩，那仅仅是因为她在历史上发展了这种兽类和人类的力量。在我看来，体育具有巨大的价值，而且一如既往，我们只看到最肤浅的东西。

‘It’s not superficial,’ said Princess Tverskaya. ‘One of the officers, they say, has broken two ribs.’
“这并不肤浅，”特维尔斯卡娅公主说。 “他们说，其中一名警官折断了两根肋骨。”

Alexey Alexandrovitch smiled his smile, which uncovered his teeth, but revealed nothing more.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇微笑着，露出了牙齿，但没有透露更多的东西。

‘We’ll admit, princess, that that’s not superficial,’ he said, ‘but internal. But that’s not the point,’ and he turned again to the general with whom he was talking seriously; ‘we mustn’t forget that those who are taking part in the race are military men, who have chosen that career, and one must allow that every calling has its disagreeable side. It forms an integral part of the duties of an officer. Low sports, such as prize-fighting or Spanish bull-fights, are a sign of barbarity. But specialized trials of skill are a sign of development.’
“我们承认，公主，这不是表面的，”他说，“而是内在的。”但这不是重点。”他再次转向正与他严肃交谈的将军。 “我们不能忘记，参加比赛的人都是军人，他们选择了这一职业，我们必须承认每一种职业都有其令人不快的一面。它构成了官员职责的一个组成部分。低级运动，例如拳击比赛或西班牙斗牛，是野蛮的标志。但专门的技能试验是发展的标志。”

‘No, I shan’t come another time; it’s too upsetting,’ said Princess Betsy. ‘Isn’t it, Anna?’
“不，我不会再来了；这太令人不安了，”贝特西公主说。 “不是吗，安娜？”

‘It is upsetting, but one can’t tear oneself away,’ said another lady. ‘If I’d been a Roman woman I should never have missed a single circus.’
另一位女士说：“这令人心烦意乱，但人们无法将自己抽走。” “如果我是罗马女人，我就不会错过任何一个马戏团。”

Anna said nothing, and keeping her opera glass up, gazed always at the same spot.
安娜什么也没说，始终举着望远镜，凝视着同一个地方。

At that moment a tall general walked through the pavilion. Breaking off what he was saying, Alexey Alexandrovitch got up hurriedly, though with dignity, and bowed low to the general.
就在这时，一名身材高大的将军从亭子里走了进来。阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇打断了自己的话，急忙起身，但又不失尊严，向将军深深鞠了一躬。

‘You’re not racing?’ the officer asked, chaffing him.
“你不参加比赛吗？”军官嘲笑他问道。

‘My race is a harder one,’ Alexey Alexandrovitch responded deferentially.
“我的比赛更加艰难，”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇恭敬地回答道。

And though the answer meant nothing, the general looked as though he had heard a witty remark from a witty man, and fully relished la pointe de la sauce.
虽然这个答案毫无意义，但将军看上去就像是听到了一个诙谐人的俏皮话，并且津津有味地吃着酱汁。

‘There are two aspects,’ Alexey Alexandrovitch resumed: ‘those who take part and those who look on; and love for such spectacles is an unmistakable proof of a low degree of development in the spectator, I admit, but...’
“有两个方面，”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇继续说道：“参与者和旁观者；我承认，对这种奇观的热爱无疑证明了观众的发展程度较低，但是……”

‘Princess, bets!’ sounded Stepan Arkadyevitch’s voice from below, addressing Betsy. ‘Who’s your favorite?’
“公主，赌吧！”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇的声音从下面响起，对贝特西说道。 '你最喜欢哪个？'

‘Anna and I are for Kuzovlev,’ replied Betsy.
“安娜和我支持库佐夫列夫，”贝特西回答道。

‘I’m for Vronsky. A pair of gloves?’
“我支持渥伦斯基。一副手套？

‘Done!’
'完毕！'

‘But it is a pretty sight, isn’t it?’
“但这真是一个美丽的景象，不是吗？”

Alexey Alexandrovitch paused while there was talking about him, but he began again directly.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇在谈论他时停了下来，但他又直接开始了。

‘I admit that manly sports do not...’ he was continuing.
“我承认男子气概的运动并不……”他继续说道。

But at that moment the racers started, and all conversation ceased. Alexey Alexandrovitch too was silent, and everyone stood up and turned towards the stream. Alexey Alexandrovitch took no interest in the race, and so he did not watch the racers, but fell listlessly to scanning the spectators with his weary eyes. His eyes rested upon Anna.
但就在那一刻，赛车手们开始了，所有的谈话都停止了。阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇也沉默了，大家都站了起来，转向溪流。阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇对比赛不感兴趣，所以他没有看赛车手，而是无精打采地用疲惫的眼睛扫视着观众。他的目光落在安娜身上。

Her face was white and set. She was obviously seeing nothing and no one but one man. Her hand had convulsively clutched her fan, and she held her breath. He looked at her and hastily turned away, scrutinizing other faces.
她脸色苍白，表情凝重。显然，她什么也没看到，除了一个男人之外，没有看到任何人。她的手痉挛地抓着扇子，屏住了呼吸。他看了她一眼，然后急忙转过身去，审视着其他人的脸。

‘But here’s this lady too, and others very much moved as well; it’s very natural,’ Alexey Alexandrovitch told himself. He tried not to look at her, but unconsciously his eyes were drawn to her. He examined that face again, trying not to read what was so plainly written on it, and against his own will, with horror read on it what he did not want to know.
“但是这位女士也在这里，其他人也很感动；这很自然，”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇告诉自己。他试图不去看她，但目光却不知不觉地被她吸引住了。他再次审视那张脸，试图不去看上面清楚写着的东西，但他违背自己的意愿，惊恐地读到了他不想知道的东西。

The first fall—Kuzovlev’s, at the stream—agitated everyone, but Alexey Alexandrovitch saw distinctly on Anna’s pale, triumphant face that the man she was watching had not fallen. When, after Mahotin and Vronsky had cleared the worst barrier, the next officer had been thrown straight on his head at it and fatally injured, and a shudder of horror passed over the whole public, Alexey Alexandrovitch saw that Anna did not even notice it, and had some difficulty in realizing what they were talking of about her. But more and more often, and with greater persistence, he watched her. Anna, wholly engrossed as she was with the race, became aware of her husband’s cold eyes fixed upon her from one side.
第一次摔倒——库佐夫列夫在溪边摔倒——让每个人都激动不已，但阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇在安娜苍白、得意的脸上清楚地看到，她所注视的那个人并没有摔倒。当马霍京和渥伦斯基越过最糟糕的障碍后，下一位军官被直接扔到了他的头上并受了致命伤，整个公众都感到一阵恐怖的颤抖，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇看到安娜甚至没有注意到这一点，有点难以理解他们在谈论她什么。但他越来越频繁地、更加坚持地注视着她。安娜全神贯注于比赛，她意识到丈夫冷冷的目光从一侧盯着她。

She glanced round for an instant, looked inquiringly at him, and with a slight frown turned away again.
她环顾四周，询问地看着他，然后微微皱眉，又转过身去。

‘Ah, I don’t care!’ she seemed to say to him, and she did not once glance at him again.
“啊，我不在乎！”她似乎对他说，但她没有再看他一眼。

The race was an unlucky one, and of the seventeen officers who rode in it more than half were thrown and hurt. Towards the end of the race everyone was in a state of agitation, which was intensified by the fact that the Tsar was displeased.
这场比赛是一场不幸的比赛，参加比赛的十七名军官中有一半以上被摔倒并受伤。比赛快结束时，每个人都处于焦躁不安的状态，而沙皇的不满更是加剧了这种情绪。

Chapter 29
第29章

Everyone was loudly expressing disapprobation, everyone was repeating a phrase some one had uttered—‘The lions and gladiators will be the next thing,’ and everyone was feeling horrified; so that when Vronsky fell to the ground, and Anna moaned aloud, there was nothing very out of the way in it. But afterwards a change came over Anna’s face which really was beyond decorum. She utterly lost her head. She began fluttering like a caged bird, at one moment would have got up and moved away, at the next turned to Betsy.
每个人都在大声表示不赞同，每个人都在重复着某人说过的一句话——“下一个就是狮子和角斗士”，每个人都感到毛骨悚然；因此，当渥伦斯基倒在地上，安娜大声呻吟时，并没有什么特别的地方。但随后安娜的脸色就发生了变化，实在是太过分了。她彻底失去了理智。她开始像笼中鸟一样扑腾着翅膀，一会儿会站起来走开，一会儿又转向贝特西。

‘Let us go, let us go!’ she said.
“让我们走，让我们走！”她说。

But Betsy did not hear her. She was bending down, talking to a general who had come up to her.
但贝特西没有听到她的声音。她弯下腰，正在和一位向她走来的将军说话。

Alexey Alexandrovitch went up to Anna and courteously offered her his arm.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇走到安娜面前，礼貌地向她伸出了手臂。

‘Let us go, if you like,’ he said in French, but Anna was listening to the general and did not notice her husband.
“如果你愿意的话，我们走吧。”他用法语说道，但安娜正在听将军说话，没有注意到她的丈夫。

‘He’s broken his leg too, so they say,’ the general was saying. ‘This is beyond everything.’
“他们说，他的腿也断了。”将军说道。 “这超出了一切。”

Without answering her husband, Anna lifted her opera glass and gazed towards the place where Vronsky had fallen; but it was so far off, and there was such a crowd of people about it, that she could make out nothing. She laid down the opera glass, and would have moved away, but at that moment an officer galloped up and made some announcement to the Tsar. Anna craned forward, listening.
安娜没有回答丈夫，只是举起望远镜，凝视着渥伦斯基倒下的地方。但距离太远，而且周围又那么多人，她什么也看不见。她放下歌剧玻璃，本想走开，但就在这时，一名军官飞驰而来，向沙皇宣布了一些消息。安娜探身向前，侧耳倾听。

‘Stiva! Stiva!’ she cried to her brother.
‘斯蒂瓦！ “斯蒂瓦！”她向她的兄弟喊道。

But her brother did not hear her. Again she would have moved away.
但她的哥哥没有听到她的声音。她又会搬走。

‘Once more I offer you my arm if you want to be going,’ said Alexey Alexandrovitch, reaching towards her hand.
“如果你想走的话，我再一次向你伸出手臂，”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇说着，伸手去抓她的手。

She drew back from him with aversion, and without looking in his face answered:
她厌恶地从他身边退开，看也不看他的脸，回答道：

‘No, no, let me be, I’ll stay.’
“不，不，让我去吧​​，我会留下来。”

She saw now that from the place of Vronsky’s accident an officer was running across the course towards the pavilion. Betsy waved her handkerchief to him. The officer brought the news that the rider was not killed, but the horse had broken its back.
她现在看到，从渥伦斯基出事的地方，一名军官正穿过跑道朝展馆跑去。贝特西向他挥动手帕。军官带来的消息是，骑手没有被杀，但马却折断了背部。

On hearing this Anna sat down hurriedly, and hid her face in her fan. Alexey Alexandrovitch saw that she was weeping, and could not control her tears, nor even the sobs that were shaking her bosom. Alexey Alexandrovitch stood so as to screen her, giving her time to recover herself.
安娜闻言赶紧坐下，把脸埋在扇子里。阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇看到她在哭泣，无法控制自己的泪水，甚至无法控制颤抖着胸膛的抽泣声。阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇站了起来，挡住了她，给了她恢复元气的时间。

‘For the third time I offer you my arm,’ he said to her after a little time, turning to her. Anna gazed at him and did not know what to say. Princess Betsy came to her rescue.
“这是我第三次向你伸出手臂，”过了一会儿，他转向她，对她说道。安娜看着他，不知道该说什么。贝特西公主前来营救。

‘No, Alexey Alexandrovitch; I brought Anna and I promised to take her home,’ put in Betsy.
“不，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇；我带了安娜，我答应带她回家。”贝特西插话道。

‘Excuse me, princess,’ he said, smiling courteously but looking her very firmly in the face, ‘but I see that Anna’s not very well, and I wish her to come home with me.’
“对不起，公主，”他礼貌地微笑着，但眼神坚定地看着她，“但我发现安娜身体不太好，我希望她能和我一起回家。”

Anna looked about her in a frightened way, got up submissively, and laid her hand on her husband’s arm.
安娜惊恐地环顾四周，顺从地站起来，把手放在丈夫的手臂上。

‘I’ll send to him and find out, and let you know,’ Betsy whispered to her.
“我会派人去找他，查明情况，然后通知你。”贝特西低声对她说道。

As they left the pavilion, Alexey Alexandrovitch, as always, talked to those he met, and Anna had, as always, to talk and answer; but she was utterly beside herself, and moved hanging on her husband’s arm as though in a dream.
当他们离开展馆时，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇一如既往地与他遇到的人交谈，而安娜则一如既往地说话和回答；但她却完全疯了，挽着丈夫的手臂移动，就像在做梦一样。

‘Is he killed or not? Is it true? Will he come or not? Shall I see him today?’ she was thinking.
‘他到底是被杀了还是没被杀？这是真的吗？他来还是不来？今天我可以去见他吗？”她心里想。

She took her seat in her husband’s carriage in silence, and in silence drove out of the crowd of carriages. In spite of all he had seen, Alexey Alexandrovitch still did not allow himself to consider his wife’s real condition. He merely saw the outward symptoms. He saw that she was behaving unbecomingly, and considered it his duty to tell her so. But it was very difficult for him not to say more, to tell her nothing but that. He opened his mouth to tell her she had behaved unbecomingly, but he could not help saying something utterly different.
她默默地坐在丈夫的马车上，默默地驶出了拥挤的车厢。尽管目睹了这一切，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇仍然不允许自己考虑妻子的真实状况。他只看到了外在的症状。他看到她的行为不恰当，并认为告诉她这是他的责任。但他很难不说更多，只告诉她这些。他张嘴想告诉她，她的行为很不体面，但他忍不住说了一些完全不同的话。

‘What an inclination we all have, though, for these cruel spectacles,’ he said. ‘I observe...’
他说，“不过，我们所有人都对这些残酷的景象抱有多大的兴趣。” “我观察到……”

‘Eh? I don’t understand,’ said Anna contemptuously.
‘呃？我不明白。”安娜轻蔑地说。

He was offended, and at once began to say what he had meant to say.
他很生气，立刻开始说出他想说的话。

‘I am obliged to tell you,’ he began.
“我不得不告诉你，”他开始说道。

‘So now we are to have it out,’ she thought, and she felt frightened.
“所以现在我们要把它解决了，”她想，并感到害怕。

‘I am obliged to tell you that your behavior has been unbecoming today,’ he said to her in French.
“我不得不告诉你，你今天的行为很不恰当，”他用法语对她说。

‘In what way has my behavior been unbecoming?’ she said aloud, turning her head swiftly and looking him straight in the face, not with the bright expression that seemed covering something, but with a look of determination, under which she concealed with difficulty the dismay she was feeling.
“我的行为哪里不合时宜了？”她大声说道，迅速转过头来，直视着他的脸，脸上的表情不是明亮的，似乎掩盖着什么，而是一种坚毅的神情，她很难掩饰在这神情之下。她感到沮丧。

‘Mind,’ he said, pointing to the open window opposite the coachman.
“注意，”他指着车夫对面开着的窗户说道。

He got up and pulled up the window.
他站起来，拉上车窗。

‘What did you consider unbecoming?’ she repeated.
“你认为什么不合适？”她重复道。

‘The despair you were unable to conceal at the accident to one of the riders.’
“你无法掩饰对其中一名骑手的事故的绝望。”

He waited for her to answer, but she was silent, looking straight before her.
他等着她回答，但她沉默不语，直视着前方。

‘I have already begged you so to conduct yourself in society that even malicious tongues can find nothing to say against you. There was a time when I spoke of your inward attitude, but I am not speaking of that now. Now I speak only of your external attitude. You have behaved improperly, and I would wish it not to occur again.’
‘我已经恳求你在社会上表现得如此，即使是恶毒的舌头也找不到针对你的言论。我曾经说过你内心的态度，但现在我不说了。现在我只说你的外在态度。你的行为不当，我希望这种事不再发生。”

She did not hear half of what he was saying; she felt panic-stricken before him, and was thinking whether it was true that Vronsky was not killed. Was it of him they were speaking when they said the rider was unhurt, but the horse had broken its back? She merely smiled with a pretense of irony when he finished, and made no reply, because she had not heard what he said. Alexey Alexandrovitch had begun to speak boldly, but as he realized plainly what he was speaking of, the dismay she was feeling infected him too. He saw the smile, and a strange misapprehension came over him.
他说的话她有一半没听清。她在他面前感到惊慌，心想渥伦斯基是否真的没有被杀。当他们说骑手没有受伤，但马的背部受伤时，他们是在说他吗？听完他的话，她只是假装讽刺地笑了笑，没有回答，因为她没有听到他说的话。阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇开始大胆发言，但当他清楚地意识到自己在说什么时，她感到的沮丧也感染了他。他看到那笑容，心中升起一种奇怪的误解。

‘She is smiling at my suspicions. Yes, she will tell me directly what she told me before; that there is no foundation for my suspicions, that it’s absurd.’
“她对我的怀疑微笑。是的，她会直接告诉我她之前告诉我的事情；我的怀疑没有根据，这是荒谬的。”

At that moment, when the revelation of everything was hanging over him, there was nothing he expected so much as that she would answer mockingly as before that his suspicions were absurd and utterly groundless. So terrible to him was what he knew that now he was ready to believe anything. But the expression of her face, scared and gloomy, did not now promise even deception.
那一刻，当一切真相大白的悬念笼罩在他的心头时，他万万没想到，她会一如既往地嘲讽地回答他的怀疑是荒谬的、毫无根据的。他所知道的事情对他来说是如此可怕，以至于现在他准备相信任何事情。但她脸上的表情既害怕又阴沉，现在连欺骗的迹象都没有。

‘Possibly I was mistaken,’ said he. ‘If so, I beg your pardon.’
“也许我错了，”他说。 “如果是这样，请原谅。”

‘No, you were not mistaken,’ she said deliberately, looking desperately into his cold face. ‘You were not mistaken. I was, and I could not help being in despair. I hear you, but I am thinking of him. I love him, I am his mistress; I can’t bear you; I’m afraid of you, and I hate you.... You can do what you like to me.’
“不，你没有看错。”她故意说道，绝望地看着他冰冷的脸。 ‘你没有看错。我是，我情不自禁地感到绝望。我听到你的声音，但我正在想他。我爱他，我是他的情妇；我无法忍受你；我害怕你，我恨你……你可以对我做你喜欢做的事。

And dropping back into the corner of the carriage, she broke into sobs, hiding her face in her hands. Alexey Alexandrovitch did not stir, and kept looking straight before him. But his whole face suddenly bore the solemn rigidity of the dead, and his expression did not change during the whole time of the drive home. On reaching the house he turned his head to her, still with the same expression.
她跌回车厢的角落里，双手捂住脸，放声抽泣。阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇一动不动，一直直视前方。但他的整张脸突然呈现出死者般的庄严僵硬，在开车回家的路上，他的表情没有任何变化。回到家后，他转过头看向她，表情还是一样。

‘Very well! But I expect a strict observance of the external forms of propriety till such time’—his voice shook—‘as I may take measures to secure my honor and communicate them to you.’
'很好！但我希望严格遵守外在的礼节，直到那时”——他的声音​​颤抖着——“这样我就可以采取措施来确保我的荣誉，并将其传达给你。”

He got out first and helped her to get out. Before the servants he pressed her hand, took his seat in the carriage, and drove back to Petersburg. Immediately afterwards a footman came from Princess Betsy and brought Anna a note.
他先下车，扶她出去。他当着仆人的面握住了她的手，坐上马车，驶回了彼得堡。紧接着，贝特西公主身边传来了一名男仆，给安娜带来了一张纸条。

‘I sent to Alexey to find out how he is, and he writes me he is quite well and unhurt, but in despair.’
“我派人去找阿列克谢，了解他的情况，他写信给我，他很好，没有受伤，但感到绝望。”

‘So he will be here,’ she thought. ‘What a good thing I told him all!’
“所以他会在这里，”她想。 “我把这一切都告诉了他，真是太好了！”

She glanced at her watch. She had still three hours to wait, and the memories of their last meeting set her blood in flame.
她看了一眼手表。她还有三个小时的等待时间，上次见面的记忆让她热血沸腾。

‘My God, how light it is! It’s dreadful, but I do love to see his face, and I do love this fantastic light.... My husband! Oh! yes.... Well, thank God! everything’s over with him.’
‘天啊，多么轻啊！这很可怕，但我确实喜欢看到他的脸，而且我确实喜欢这美妙的光线……我的丈夫！哦！是的......好吧，感谢上帝！他的一切都结束了。

Chapter 30
第30章

In the little German watering-place to which the Shtcherbatskys had betaken themselves, as in all places indeed where people are gathered together, the usual process, as it were, of the crystallization of society went on, assigning to each member of that society a definite and unalterable place. Just as the particle of water in frost, definitely and unalterably, takes the special form of the crystal of snow, so each new person that arrived at the springs was at once placed in his special place.
在谢尔巴茨基一家所在的德国小水源里，就像在所有人们聚集的地方一样，社会结晶的通常过程仍在继续，为该社会的每个成员分配了一个职位。确定的、不可改变的地方。正如霜中的水滴，绝对不可改变地呈现出雪晶的特殊形状一样，每个到达泉水的新人都会立即被安置在他的特殊位置。

Fuerst Shtcherbatsky, sammt Gemahlin und Tochter, by the apartments they took, and from their name and from the friends they made, were immediately crystallized into a definite place marked out for them.
Fuerst Shtcherbatsky、sammt Gemahlin und Tochter，通过他们所住的公寓、他们的名字和他们结交的朋友，立即被明确地定为一个为他们标记的明确的地方。

There was visiting the watering-place that year a real German Fuerstin, in consequence of which the crystallizing process went on more vigorously than ever. Princess Shtcherbatskaya wished, above everything, to present her daughter to this German princess, and the day after their arrival she duly performed this rite. Kitty made a low and graceful curtsey in the very simple, that is to say, very elegant frock that had been ordered her from Paris. The German princess said, ‘I hope the roses will soon come back to this pretty little face,’ and for the Shtcherbatskys certain definite lines of existence were at once laid down from which there was no departing. The Shtcherbatskys made the acquaintance too of the family of an English Lady Somebody, and of a German countess and her son, wounded in the last war, and of a learned Swede, and of M. Canut and his sister. But yet inevitably the Shtcherbatskys were thrown most into the society of a Moscow lady, Marya Yevgenyevna Rtishtcheva and her daughter, whom Kitty disliked, because she had fallen ill, like herself, over a love affair, and a Moscow colonel, whom Kitty had known from childhood, and always seen in uniform and epaulets, and who now, with his little eyes and his open neck and flowered cravat, was uncommonly ridiculous and tedious, because there was no getting rid of him. When all this was so firmly established, Kitty began to be very much bored, especially as the prince went away to Carlsbad and she was left alone with her mother. She took no interest in the people she knew, feeling that nothing fresh would come of them. Her chief mental interest in the watering-place consisted in watching and making theories about the people she did not know. It was characteristic of Kitty that she always imagined everything in people in the most favorable light possible, especially so in those she did not know. And now as she made surmises as to who people were, what were their relations to one another, and what they were like, Kitty endowed them with the most marvelous and noble characters, and found confirmation of her idea in her observations.
那一年，真正的德国福尔斯坦来到了浇水地，因此结晶过程比以往任何时候都更加激烈。谢尔巴茨卡娅公主最希望将自己的女儿送给这位德国公主，在他们抵达的第二天，她就如期举行了这一仪式。基蒂穿着从巴黎为她订购的那件非常简单，也就是说，非常优雅的连衣裙，低而优雅地行了屈膝礼。德国公主说：“我希望玫瑰很快就会回到这张漂亮的小脸上。”对于谢尔巴茨基一家来说，某些明确的存在路线立即就被确定下来，无法偏离。谢尔巴茨基一家还结识了一位英国贵妇人的家人、一位在上次战争中受伤的德国伯爵夫人和她的儿子、一位博学的瑞典人以及卡努特先生和他的妹妹。但不可避免的是，谢尔巴茨基一家最终陷入了莫斯科女士玛丽亚·叶夫根尼耶夫娜·里季切娃和她的女儿的社交圈子里，基蒂不喜欢她们，因为她和她一样，因为一场恋爱而生病了；还有一位莫斯科上校，基蒂认识她。从小到大，人们总是穿着制服，戴着肩章，而现在，他的小眼睛、敞开的脖子和花领带，显得异常可笑和乏味，因为无法摆脱他。当这一切都如此牢固地确立后，基蒂开始感到非常无聊，尤其是当王子去了卡尔斯巴德，留下她独自和母亲在一起时。她对她认识的人不感兴趣，觉得他们不会有什么新鲜事。她对水源地的主要兴趣在于观察那些她不认识的人并对其进行推测。 基蒂的特点是，她总是以最有利的角度来想象人们的一切，尤其是那些她不认识的人。现在，当她猜测人们是谁、他们之间的关系如何以及他们是什么样的人时，基蒂赋予他们最奇妙和最高尚的性格，并在她的观察中找到了她想法的证实。

Of these people the one that attracted her most was a Russian girl who had come to the watering-place with an invalid Russian lady, Madame Stahl, as everyone called her. Madame Stahl belonged to the highest society, but she was so ill that she could not walk, and only on exceptionally fine days made her appearance at the springs in an invalid carriage. But it was not so much from ill-health as from pride—so Princess Shtcherbatskaya interpreted it—that Madame Stahl had not made the acquaintance of anyone among the Russians there. The Russian girl looked after Madame Stahl, and besides that, she was, as Kitty observed, on friendly terms with all the invalids who were seriously ill, and there were many of them at the springs, and looked after them in the most natural way. This Russian girl was not, as Kitty gathered, related to Madame Stahl, nor was she a paid attendant. Madame Stahl called her Varenka, and other people called her ‘Mademoiselle Varenka.’ Apart from the interest Kitty took in this girl’s relations with Madame Stahl and with other unknown persons, Kitty, as often happened, felt an inexplicable attraction to Mademoiselle Varenka, and was aware when their eyes met that she too liked her.
在这些人中，最吸引她的是一位俄罗斯姑娘，她和一位体弱多病的俄罗斯女士一起来到饮水处，斯塔尔夫人，人们都这样称呼她。斯塔尔夫人属于上流社会，但她病得很重，无法行走，只有在特别晴朗的日子里，她才乘坐一辆残疾人马车出现在泉水处。但施切尔巴茨卡娅公主是这么解释的，斯塔尔夫人没有在那里结识任何俄罗斯人，与其说是因为健康不佳，不如说是因为骄傲。俄罗斯姑娘照顾斯塔尔夫人，除此之外，正如基蒂所说，她与所有重病的病人都保持着友好的关系，而且泉水里有很多病人，她以最自然的方式照顾他们。据基蒂推测，这个俄罗斯女孩与斯塔尔夫人没有亲戚关系，也不是受雇的服务员。斯塔尔夫人称她为瓦伦卡，其他人则称她为“瓦伦卡小姐”。基蒂除了对这个女孩与斯塔尔夫人以及其他不知名的人的关系感兴趣之外，还像经常发生的那样，对瓦伦卡小姐产生了一种莫名的吸引力。当他们四目相对的时候就知道她也喜欢她。

Of Mademoiselle Varenka one would not say that she had passed her first youth, but she was, as it were, a creature without youth; she might have been taken for nineteen or for thirty. If her features were criticized separately, she was handsome rather than plain, in spite of the sickly hue of her face. She would have been a good figure, too, if it had not been for her extreme thinness and the size of her head, which was too large for her medium height. But she was not likely to be attractive to men. She was like a fine flower, already past its bloom and without fragrance, though the petals were still unwithered. Moreover, she would have been unattractive to men also from the lack of just what Kitty had too much of—of the suppressed fire of vitality, and the consciousness of her own attractiveness.
瓦伦卡小姐不会说她已经度过了她的第一个青春期，但她可以说是一个没有青春的生物。她可能被认为是十九岁或三十岁。如果单独批评她的容貌的话，尽管她的脸色带有病态的色彩，但她并不相貌平庸，而是英俊潇洒。如果不是她太瘦，而且她的头对于她中等身高来说太大了，她的身材也会很好。但她不太可能对男人有吸引力。她就像一朵美丽的花，虽然花瓣尚未凋谢，但已经过了花期，没有香气。此外，她对男人也没有吸引力，因为她缺乏基蒂所拥有的太多东西——被压抑的活力之火，以及对自己吸引力的意识。

She always seemed absorbed in work about which there could be no doubt, and so it seemed she could not take interest in anything outside it. It was just this contrast with her own position that was for Kitty the great attraction of Mademoiselle Varenka. Kitty felt that in her, in her manner of life, she would find an example of what she was now so painfully seeking: interest in life, a dignity in life—apart from the worldly relations of girls with men, which so revolted Kitty, and appeared to her now as a shameful hawking about of goods in search of a purchaser. The more attentively Kitty watched her unknown friend, the more convinced she was this girl was the perfect creature she fancied her, and the more eagerly she wished to make her acquaintance.
她似乎总是专注于毫无疑问的工作，因此她似乎对工作之外的任何事情都不感兴趣。正是这种与她自己的地位形成鲜明对比，才让瓦伦卡小姐对基蒂产生了巨大的吸引力。基蒂觉得，在她身上，在她的生活方式中，她会找到她现在如此痛苦地寻找的榜样：对生活的兴趣，生活的尊严——除了让基蒂感到厌恶的女孩与男人的世俗关系之外，现在在她看来，这是一种可耻的兜售商品寻找买家的行为。基蒂越是仔细地观察她这位陌生的朋友，她就越相信这个女孩就是她心目中的完美人选，她也就越渴望结识她。

The two girls used to meet several times a day, and every time they met, Kitty’s eyes said: ‘Who are you? What are you? Are you really the exquisite creature I imagine you to be? But for goodness’ sake don’t suppose,’ her eyes added, ‘that I would force my acquaintance on you, I simply admire you and like you.’ ‘I like you too, and you’re very, very sweet. And I should like you better still, if I had time,’ answered the eyes of the unknown girl. Kitty saw indeed, that she was always busy. Either she was taking the children of a Russian family home from the springs, or fetching a shawl for a sick lady, and wrapping her up in it, or trying to interest an irritable invalid, or selecting and buying cakes for tea for someone.
两个女孩以前每天见面好几次，每次见面，凯蒂的眼神都在说：‘你是谁？你是做什么的？你真的是我想象中的精致生物吗？但看在上帝的份上，别以为我会强迫我认识你，我只是钦佩你，喜欢你。”“我也喜欢你，而且你非常非常可爱。如果我有时间的话，我会更喜欢你。”陌生女孩的眼睛回答道。基蒂确实看出她总是很忙。她要么把一个俄罗斯家庭的孩子从泉水里带回家，要么为一位生病的女士取一条披肩，把她裹在里面，要么试图引起一个易怒的病人的兴趣，要么为某人挑选和购买蛋糕来喝茶。

Soon after the arrival of the Shtcherbatskys there appeared in the morning crowd at the springs two persons who attracted universal and unfavorable attention. These were a tall man with a stooping figure, and huge hands, in an old coat too short for him, with black, simple, and yet terrible eyes, and a pockmarked, kind-looking woman, very badly and tastelessly dressed. Recognizing these persons as Russians, Kitty had already in her imagination begun constructing a delightful and touching romance about them. But the princess, having ascertained from the visitors’ list that this was Nikolay Levin and Marya Nikolaevna, explained to Kitty what a bad man this Levin was, and all her fancies about these two people vanished. Not so much from what her mother told her, as from the fact that it was Konstantin’s brother, this pair suddenly seemed to Kitty intensely unpleasant. This Levin, with his continual twitching of his head, aroused in her now an irrepressible feeling of disgust.
谢尔巴茨基夫妇抵达后不久，泉水的早晨人群中就出现了两个人，引起了普遍的、不利的关注。这是一个身材高大、弯腰驼背的男人，有一双巨大的手，穿着一件对他来说太短的旧外套，一双黑色的、简单但可怕的眼睛，还有一个麻子，看上去很友善的女人，穿着非常破烂和无品位。基蒂认出这些人是俄罗斯人，她已经在想象中开始为他们构建一段令人愉快、感人的浪漫故事。但是公主从访客名单中查明这是尼古拉·莱文和玛丽亚·尼古拉耶夫娜，向基蒂解释了这个莱文是一个多么坏的人，她对这两个人的所有幻想都消失了。与其说是她母亲告诉她的，不如说是因为这是康斯坦丁的哥哥，这一对突然让凯蒂觉得非常不愉快。这个莱文，不断地抽动着他的头，现在在她心里激起了一种难以抑制的厌恶感。

It seemed to her that his big, terrible eyes, which persistently pursued her, expressed a feeling of hatred and contempt, and she tried to avoid meeting him.
在她看来，那双可怕的大眼睛，执着地追寻着她，流露出一种仇恨和轻蔑的感觉，她极力避免与他见面。

Chapter 31
第31章

It was a wet day; it had been raining all the morning, and the invalids, with their parasols, had flocked into the arcades.
这是一个潮湿的日子；整个早上都在下雨，病人打着阳伞，涌进了拱廊。

Kitty was walking there with her mother and the Moscow colonel, smart and jaunty in his European coat, bought ready-made at Frankfort. They were walking on one side of the arcade, trying to avoid Levin, who was walking on the other side. Varenka, in her dark dress, in a black hat with a turn-down brim, was walking up and down the whole length of the arcade with a blind Frenchwoman, and, every time she met Kitty, they exchanged friendly glances.
基蒂和她的母亲以及莫斯科上校一起散步，穿着从法兰克福买来的欧洲外套，聪明又活泼。他们走在拱廊的一侧，试图避开走在另一侧的莱文。瓦伦卡穿着深色衣服，戴着一顶黑色翻边帽子，和一位盲人法国女人一起在整个拱廊上走来走去，每次她见到基蒂，她们都会友好地交换眼神。

‘Mamma, couldn’t I speak to her?’ said Kitty, watching her unknown friend, and noticing that she was going up to the spring, and that they might come there together.
“妈妈，我不能和她说话吗？”基蒂看着她不认识的朋友，说道，注意到她正往泉边走，他们可能会一起去那里。

‘Oh, if you want to so much, I’ll find out about her first and make her acquaintance myself,’ answered her mother. ‘What do you see in her out of the way? A companion, she must be. If you like, I’ll make acquaintance with Madame Stahl; I used to know her belle-soeur,’ added the princess, lifting her head haughtily.
“哦，如果你这么想的话，我会先打听她的情况，亲自去认识她。”她的母亲回答道。 ‘你在她身上看到了什么？一个同伴，她一定是。如果你愿意的话，我可以认识一下斯塔尔夫人； “我以前认识她的美女，”公主傲慢地抬起头补充道。

Kitty knew that the princess was offended that Madame Stahl had seemed to avoid making her acquaintance. Kitty did not insist.
基蒂知道斯塔尔夫人似乎避免结识公主，这让公主很生气。凯蒂没有坚持。

‘How wonderfully sweet she is!’ she said, gazing at Varenka just as she handed a glass to the Frenchwoman. ‘Look how natural and sweet it all is.’
“她真是太可爱了！”她一边说，一边把杯子递给瓦伦卡。 “看看这一切是多么自然和甜蜜。”

‘It’s so funny to see your engouements,’ said the princess. ‘No, we’d better go back,’ she added, noticing Levin coming towards them with his companion and a German doctor, to whom he was talking very noisily and angrily.
“看到你们的宴会真有趣，”公主说。 “不，我们最好回去，”她补充道，注意到莱文带着他的同伴和一位德国医生朝他们走来，莱文正大声而愤怒地跟他说话。

They turned to go back, when suddenly they heard, not noisy talk, but shouting. Levin, stopping short, was shouting at the doctor, and the doctor, too, was excited. A crowd gathered about them. The princess and Kitty beat a hasty retreat, while the colonel joined the crowd to find out what was the matter.
他们转身正要回去，突然听见不是吵闹的谈话声，而是喊叫声。莱文突然停下来，对医生大喊大叫，医生也很兴奋。一群人聚集在他们周围。公主和凯蒂匆匆撤退，而上校也加入了人群，想知道到底发生了什么事。

A few minutes later the colonel overtook them.
几分钟后，上校追上了他们。

‘What was it?’ inquired the princess.
“那是什么？”公主问道。

‘Scandalous and disgraceful!’ answered the colonel. ‘The one thing to be dreaded is meeting Russians abroad. That tall gentleman was abusing the doctor, flinging all sorts of insults at him because he wasn’t treating him quite as he liked, and he began waving his stick at him. It’s simply a scandal!’
“可耻且可耻！”上校回答道。 “令人害怕的一件事是在国外遇到俄罗斯人。那位高个子绅士正在辱骂医生，对他进行各种侮辱，因为他没有按照他喜欢的方式对待他，并且开始向他挥舞棍子。这简直就是一个丑闻！”

‘Oh, how unpleasant!’ said the princess. ‘Well, and how did it end?’
“噢，真不愉快！”公主说。 “那么，事情是怎样结束的呢？”

‘Luckily at that point that...the one in the mushroom hat... intervened. A Russian lady, I think she is,’ said the colonel.
“幸运的是，就在那时……戴蘑菇帽的那个……介入了。一位俄罗斯女士，我想她是，”上校说。

‘Mademoiselle Varenka?’ asked Kitty.
“瓦伦卡小姐？”基蒂问道。

‘Yes, yes. She came to the rescue before anyone; she took the man by the arm and led him away.’
'是的是的。她先于任何人前来救援；她抓住那个男人的手臂，把他带走了。

‘There, mamma,’ said Kitty; ‘you wonder that I’m enthusiastic about her.’
“好了，妈妈，”基蒂说。 “你想知道我对她有多热情。”

The next day, as she watched her unknown friend, Kitty noticed that Mademoiselle Varenka was already on the same terms with Levin and his companion as with her other proteges. She went up to them, entered into conversation with them, and served as interpreter for the woman, who could not speak any foreign language.
第二天，当基蒂注视着这位陌生的朋友时，她注意到瓦伦卡小姐与莱文和他的同伴的关系已经和她与其他门徒的关系一样了。她走到他们面前，与他们交谈，并为这位不会说任何外语的女士担任翻译。

Kitty began to entreat her mother still more urgently to let her make friends with Varenka. And, disagreeable as it was to the princess to seem to take the first step in wishing to make the acquaintance of Madame Stahl, who thought fit to give herself airs, she made inquiries about Varenka, and, having ascertained particulars about her tending to prove that there could be no harm though little good in the acquaintance, she herself approached Varenka and made acquaintance with her.
基蒂开始更加迫切地恳求她的母亲让她和瓦伦卡交朋友。斯塔尔夫人认为自己摆出一副架势，这对公主来说似乎是想要结识斯塔尔夫人的第一步，这让她感到不舒服，她询问了瓦伦卡的情况，并查明了她倾向于证明的细节。认识了虽然没有什么好处，但也没有坏处，因此她亲自走近瓦伦卡并结识了她。

Choosing a time when her daughter had gone to the spring, while Varenka had stopped outside the baker’s, the princess went up to her.
选了一个时间，当她的女儿去了泉水，而瓦伦卡在面包店外面停下来时，公主走到了她面前。

‘Allow me to make your acquaintance,’ she said, with her dignified smile. ‘My daughter has lost her heart to you,’ she said. ‘Possibly you do not know me. I am...’
“请允许我认识一下你，”她带着端庄的微笑说道。 “我女儿已经对你失去了兴趣，”她说。 ‘也许你不认识我。我是...'

‘That feeling is more than reciprocal, princess,’ Varenka answered hurriedly.
“公主，这种感觉不仅仅是相互的。”瓦伦卡急忙回答道。

‘What a good deed you did yesterday to our poor compatriot!’ said the princess.
“你昨天对我们可怜的同胞做了一件多么好的事啊！”公主说。

Varenka flushed a little. ‘I don’t remember. I don’t think I did anything,’ she said.
瓦伦卡脸红了一点。 ” “我不记得了。我不认为我做了什么，”她说。

‘Why, you saved that Levin from disagreeable consequences.’
“哎呀，你让莱文免于遭受不愉快的后果。”

‘Yes, sa compagne called me, and I tried to pacify him, he’s very ill, and was dissatisfied with the doctor. I’m used to looking after such invalids.’
“是的，公司给我打电话，我试图安抚他，他病得很重，对医生不满意。我已经习惯照顾这样的病人了。

‘Yes, I’ve heard you live at Mentone with your aunt—I think— Madame Stahl: I used to know her belle-soeur.’
“是的，我听说你和你的阿姨住在芒通——我想——斯塔尔夫人：我以前认识她的美女。”

‘No, she’s not my aunt. I call her mamma, but I am not related to her; I was brought up by her,’ answered Varenka, flushing a little again.
“不，她不是我姑妈。我叫她妈妈，但我和她没有血缘关系；我是她带大的。”瓦伦卡回答道，脸又红了一点。

This was so simply said, and so sweet was the truthful and candid expression of her face, that the princess saw why Kitty had taken such a fancy to Varenka.
这句话说得如此简单，她脸上的真实和坦率的表情又是如此甜蜜，公主明白了基蒂为什么这么喜欢瓦伦卡。

‘Well, and what’s this Levin going to do?’ asked the princess.
“那么，这个莱文要做什么呢？”公主问道。

‘He’s going away,’ answered Varenka.
“他要走了，”瓦伦卡回答道。

At that instant Kitty came up from the spring beaming with delight that her mother had become acquainted with her unknown friend.
就在这时，基蒂从泉水中走了出来，她高兴极了，因为她的母亲认识了她不认识的朋友。

‘Well, see, Kitty, your intense desire to make friends with Mademoiselle…’
“嗯，看吧，基蒂，你很想和小姐交朋友……”

‘Varenka,’ Varenka put in smiling, ‘that’s what everyone calls me.’
“瓦伦卡，”瓦伦卡微笑着插嘴，“大家都是这样称呼我的。”

Kitty blushed with pleasure, and slowly, without speaking, pressed her new friend’s hand, which did not respond to her pressure, but lay motionless in her hand. The hand did not respond to her pressure, but the face of Mademoiselle Varenka glowed with a soft, glad, though rather mournful smile, that showed large but handsome teeth.
基蒂高兴得满脸通红，一言不发地慢慢地按了新朋友的手，但新朋友的手没有回应她的压力，只是一动不动地躺在她手里。那只手对她的压力没有反应，但瓦伦卡小姐的脸上绽放出柔和、高兴、虽然有些悲伤的微笑，露出大而英俊的​​牙齿。

‘I have long wished for this too,’ she said.
“我也一直希望如此，”她说。

‘But you are so busy.’
“但是你太忙了。”

‘Oh, no, I’m not at all busy,’ answered Varenka, but at that moment she had to leave her new friends because two little Russian girls, children of an invalid, ran up to her.
“哦，不，我一点也不忙，”瓦伦卡回答道，但就在那时，她不得不离开她的新朋友，因为两个病人的孩子，俄罗斯小女孩，向她跑来。

‘Varenka, mamma’s calling!’ they cried.
“瓦伦卡，妈妈在叫我！”他们喊道。

And Varenka went after them.
瓦伦卡追赶他们。

Chapter 32
第32章

The particulars which the princess had learned in regard to Varenka’s past and her relations with Madame Stahl were as follows:
公主了解到的关于瓦伦卡的过去以及她与斯塔尔夫人的关系的细节如下：

Madame Stahl, of whom some people said that she had worried her husband out of his life, while others said it was he who had made her wretched by his immoral behavior, had always been a woman of weak health and enthusiastic temperament. When, after her separation from her husband, she gave birth to her only child, the child had died almost immediately, and the family of Madame Stahl, knowing her sensibility, and fearing the news would kill her, had substituted another child, a baby born the same night and in the same house in Petersburg, the daughter of the chief cook of the Imperial Household. This was Varenka. Madame Stahl learned later on that Varenka was not her own child, but she went on bringing her up, especially as very soon afterwards Varenka had not a relation of her own living. Madame Stahl had now been living more than ten years continuously abroad, in the south, never leaving her couch. And some people said that Madame Stahl had made her social position as a philanthropic, highly religious woman; other people said she really was at heart the highly ethical being, living for nothing but the good of her fellow creatures, which she represented herself to be. No one knew what her faith was—Catholic, Protestant, or Orthodox. But one fact was indubitable—she was in amicable relations with the highest dignitaries of all the churches and sects.
斯塔尔夫人，有人说是她让丈夫担心了他的生活，也有人说是他的不道德行为让她变得可怜，她一直是一个身体虚弱、性情热情的女人。当她与丈夫分居后，生下她唯一的孩子时，孩子几乎立刻就死了，斯塔尔夫人的家人知道她的感情，担心这个消息会杀死她，所以用另一个孩子代替了婴儿。同一天晚上，出生在彼得堡的同一所房子里，她是皇室首席厨师的女儿。这是瓦伦卡。斯塔尔夫人后来得知瓦伦卡不是她自己的孩子，但她继续抚养她，特别是不久之后瓦伦卡就没有了自己的生活亲戚。斯塔尔夫人现在已经在南方的国外连续生活了十多年，从未离开过她的沙发。有人说，斯塔尔夫人的社会地位是一位慈善家、高度虔诚的女性。其他人说，她本质上是一个高度道德的人，除了她自己所代表的同胞的利益之外，别无其他。没有人知道她的信仰是什么——天主教、新教还是东正教。但有一个事实是不容置疑的——她与所有教会和教派的最高权贵都保持着友好的关系。

Varenka lived with her all the while abroad, and everyone who knew Madame Stahl knew and liked Mademoiselle Varenka, as everyone called her.
瓦伦卡在国外一直和她住在一起，所有认识斯塔尔夫人的人都知道并喜欢瓦伦卡小姐，大家都这样称呼她。

Having learned all these facts, the princess found nothing to object to in her daughter’s intimacy with Varenka, more especially as Varenka’s breeding and education were of the best—she spoke French and English extremely well—and what was of the most weight, brought a message from Madame Stahl expressing her regret that she was prevented by her ill health from making the acquaintance of the princess.
了解了所有这些事实后，公主对女儿与瓦伦卡的亲密关系没有什么可反对的，尤其是瓦伦卡的教养和教育都是最好的——她法语和英语说得非常好——而最重要的是，带来了斯塔尔夫人发来的信息，表达了她因健康状况不佳而未能结识公主的遗憾。

After getting to know Varenka, Kitty became more and more fascinated by her friend, and every day she discovered new virtues in her.
认识瓦伦卡后，凯蒂对她的朋友越来越着迷，每天都在她身上发现新的优点。

The princess, hearing that Varenka had a good voice, asked her to come and sing to them in the evening.
公主听说瓦伦卡有一副好嗓子，就邀请她晚上来给他们唱歌。

‘Kitty plays, and we have a piano; not a good one, it’s true, but you will give us so much pleasure,’ said the princess with her affected smile, which Kitty disliked particularly just then, because she noticed that Varenka had no inclination to sing. Varenka came, however, in the evening and brought a roll of music with her. The princess had invited Marya Yevgenyevna and her daughter and the colonel.
“基蒂会演奏，我们有一架钢琴；确实不是一首好歌，但你会给我们带来很多快乐。”公主带着做作的微笑说道，基蒂当时特别不喜欢这种微笑，因为她注意到瓦伦卡没有唱歌的兴趣。然而，瓦伦卡晚上来了，带来了一卷乐谱。公主邀请了玛丽亚·叶夫根尼耶夫娜和她的女儿以及上校。

Varenka seemed quite unaffected by there being persons present she did not know, and she went directly to the piano. She could not accompany herself, but she could sing music at sight very well. Kitty, who played well, accompanied her.
瓦伦卡似乎并没有因为在场有她不认识的人而受到影响，她直接走向了钢琴。她不会自己伴奏，但她看音乐就能唱得很好。玩得好的Kitty陪着她。

‘You have an extraordinary talent,’ the princess said to her after Varenka had sung the first song extremely well.
“你有非凡的天赋，”瓦伦卡唱得非常好之后，公主对她说道。

Marya Yevgenyevna and her daughter expressed their thanks and admiration.
玛丽亚·叶夫根尼耶夫娜和女儿表达了感谢和钦佩。

‘Look,’ said the colonel, looking out of the window, ‘what an audience has collected to listen to you.’ There actually was quite a considerable crowd under the windows.
“看，”上校望着窗外说道，“观众聚集在一起听你讲话。”实际上，窗户下面有相当多的人群。

‘I am very glad it gives you pleasure,’ Varenka answered simply.
“我很高兴它能给你带来快乐，”瓦伦卡简单地回答道。

Kitty looked with pride at her friend. She was enchanted by her talent, and her voice, and her face, but most of all by her manner, by the way Varenka obviously thought nothing of her singing and was quite unmoved by their praises. She seemed only to be asking: ‘Am I to sing again, or is that enough?’
基蒂自豪地看着她的朋友。她被她的才华、她的声音和她的脸所迷住，但最重要的是她的举止，顺便说一句，瓦伦卡显然对她的歌声不以为然，对他们的赞美也不为所动。她似乎只是在问：“我要再唱歌吗？还是这样就够了？”

‘If it had been I,’ thought Kitty, ‘how proud I should have been! How delighted I should have been to see that crowd under the windows! But she’s utterly unmoved by it. Her only motive is to avoid refusing and to please mamma. What is there in her? What is it gives her the power to look down on everything, to be calm independently of everything? How I should like to know it and to learn it of her!’ thought Kitty, gazing into her serene face. The princess asked Varenka to sing again, and Varenka sang another song, also smoothly, distinctly, and well, standing erect at the piano and beating time on it with her thin, dark-skinned hand.
“如果是我，”基蒂想，“我该多么自豪啊！”看到窗下的人群我该多么高兴啊！但她对此完全不为所动。她唯一的动机是避免拒绝并取悦妈妈。她身上有什么？是什么让她拥有了看不起一切、独立于一切的平静的力量？我多么想知道这一点，并向她学习啊！”基蒂凝视着她平静的脸庞，想道。公主请瓦伦卡再唱一首歌，瓦伦卡又唱了一首歌，同样流畅、清晰、好听，她笔直地站在钢琴前，用她那瘦瘦、皮肤黝黑的手敲着拍子。

The next song in the book was an Italian one. Kitty played the opening bars, and looked round at Varenka.
书中的下一首歌是一首意大利歌曲。基蒂弹奏了开头小节，然后回头看着瓦伦卡。

‘Let’s skip that,’ said Varenka, flushing a little. Kitty let her eyes rest on Varenka’s face, with a look of dismay and inquiry.
“我们先不说这个了，”瓦伦卡说，脸有点红。基蒂的目光落在瓦伦卡的脸上，脸上带着沮丧和询问的表情。

‘Very well, the next one,’ she said hurriedly, turning over the pages, and at once feeling that there was something connected with the song.
“很好，下一首。”她急忙说道，翻了几页，立刻觉得这首歌有些关联。

‘No,’ answered Varenka with a smile, laying her hand on the music, ‘no, let’s have that one.’ And she sang it just as quietly, as coolly, and as well as the others.
“不，”瓦伦卡微笑着回答，把手放在乐谱上，“不，我们来一首吧。”她和其他人一样安静、冷静地唱着这首歌。

When she had finished, they all thanked her again, and went off to tea. Kitty and Varenka went out into the little garden that adjoined the house.
当她说完后，他们再次向她道谢，然后去喝茶了。基蒂和瓦伦卡走到房子旁边的小花园里。

‘Am I right, that you have some reminiscences connected with that song?’ said Kitty. ‘Don’t tell me,’ she added hastily, ‘only say if I’m right.’
“我说得对吗，你有一些与那首歌有关的回忆？”基蒂说。 “别告诉我，”她急忙补充道，“只说我是否正确。”

‘No, why not? I’ll tell you simply,’ said Varenka, and, without waiting for a reply, she went on: ‘Yes, it brings up memories, once painful ones. I cared for someone once, and I used to sing him that song.’
‘不，为什么不呢？我会简单地告诉你，”瓦伦卡说，不等回复，她继续说道：“是的，它唤起了回忆，曾经是痛苦的回忆。我曾经关心过一个人，我曾经给他唱过那首歌。

Kitty with big, wide-open eyes gazed silently, sympathetically at Varenka.
凯蒂睁着大大的眼睛，默默地、同情地注视着瓦莲卡。

‘I cared for him, and he cared for me; but his mother did not wish it, and he married another girl. He’s living now not far from us, and I see him sometimes. You didn’t think I had a love story too,’ she said, and there was a faint gleam in her handsome face of that fire which Kitty felt must once have glowed all over her.
“我关心他，他也关心我；但他的母亲不愿意，他又娶了另一个女孩。他现在住在离我们不远的地方，我有时会看到他。你以为我也没有爱情故事，”她说道，她英俊的脸上闪现出一丝微弱的光芒，基蒂觉得那火焰一定曾经在她全身发光。

‘I didn’t think so? Why, if I were a man, I could never care for anyone else after knowing you. Only I can’t understand how he could, to please his mother, forget you and make you unhappy; he had no heart.’
‘我没想到吗？为什么，如果我是个男人，认识你之后我就再也不会关心别人了。只是我不明白他怎么能为了取悦他的母亲而忘记你，让你不高兴；他没有心。

‘Oh, no, he’s a very good man, and I’m not unhappy; quite the contrary, I’m very happy. Well, so we shan’t be singing any more now,’ she added, turning towards the house.
“哦，不，他是一个非常好的人，我并不不高兴；恰恰相反，我很高兴。好吧，所以我们现在不能再唱歌了，”她转身朝房子补充道。

‘How good you are! how good you are!’ cried Kitty, and stopping her, she kissed her. ‘If I could only be even a little like you!’
‘你多好啊！ “你真棒！”基蒂叫道，停下来吻了她。 “如果我能像你一样就好了！”

‘Why should you be like anyone? You’re nice as you are,’ said Varenka, smiling her gentle, weary smile.
‘你为什么要像别人一样？你本来就很好，”瓦伦卡说，脸上带着温柔而疲惫的微笑。

‘No, I’m not nice at all. Come, tell me.... Stop a minute, let’s sit down,’ said Kitty, making her sit down again beside her. ‘Tell me, isn’t it humiliating to think that a man has disdained your love, that he hasn’t cared for it?...’
‘不，我一点也不友善。来吧，告诉我……等一下，我们坐下来，”基蒂说，让她又在自己身边坐下。 “告诉我，一个男人蔑视你的爱，不关心你的爱，这不是很丢脸吗？……”

‘But he didn’t disdain it; I believe he cared for me, but he was a dutiful son...’
“但他并没有蔑视它；我相信他很关心我，但他是一个孝子……”

‘Yes, but if it hadn’t been on account of his mother, if it had been his own doing?...’ said Kitty, feeling she was giving away her secret, and that her face, burning with the flush of shame, had betrayed her already.
“是的，但如果不是因为他母亲，如果不是他自己做的呢？……”基蒂说，感觉她正在泄露她的秘密，她的脸因羞耻而烧得通红。 ，已经背叛了她。

‘In that case he would have done wrong, and I should not have regretted him,’ answered Varenka, evidently realizing that they were now talking not of her, but of Kitty.
“如果那样的话，他就做错了，我也不应该为他后悔。”瓦伦卡回答道，她显然意识到他们现在不是在谈论她，而是在谈论基蒂。

‘But the humiliation,’ said Kitty, ‘the humiliation one can never forget, can never forget,’ she said, remembering her look at the last ball during the pause in the music.
“但是耻辱，”基蒂说，“这种耻辱是人们永远无法忘记的，永远无法忘记的，”她说，记得音乐暂停时她看着最后一个舞会的样子。

‘Where is the humiliation? Why, you did nothing wrong?’
‘哪里丢人了？为什么，你没有做错什么？

‘Worse than wrong—shameful.’
“比错误更糟糕——可耻。”

Varenka shook her head and laid her hand on Kitty’s hand.
瓦伦卡摇摇头，把手放在基蒂的手上。

‘Why, what is there shameful?’ she said. ‘You didn’t tell a man, who didn’t care for you, that you loved him, did you?’
“哎呀，有什么可耻的呢？”她说。 “你没有告诉一个不关心你的男人你爱他，不是吗？”

‘Of course not; I never said a word, but he knew it. No, no, there are looks, there are ways; I can’t forget it, if I live a hundred years.’
'当然不是;我没说过一句话，但他知道。不不，有外表，有办法；如果我活一百岁，我就不会忘记它。

‘Why so? I don’t understand. The whole point is whether you love him now or not,’ said Varenka, who called everything by its name.
'为什么这样？我不明白。关键在于你现在是否爱他，”瓦伦卡说，她用它的名字称呼一切。

‘I hate him; I can’t forgive myself.’
'我讨厌他;我无法原谅自己。

‘Why, what for?’
“为什么，为什么？”

‘The shame, the humiliation!’
“耻辱，耻辱！”

‘Oh! if everyone were as sensitive as you are!’ said Varenka. ‘There isn’t a girl who hasn’t been through the same. And it’s all so unimportant.’
'哦！ “如果每个人都像你一样敏感就好了！”瓦伦卡说。 “没有一个女孩没有经历过同样的事情。而这一切都是那么的不重要。

‘Why, what is important?’ said Kitty, looking into her face with inquisitive wonder.
“为什么，什么是重要的？”基蒂问道，带着好奇的目光看着她的脸。

‘Oh, there’s so much that’s important,’ said Varenka, smiling.
“哦，有很多事情很重要，”瓦伦卡微笑着说道。

‘Why, what?’
“为什么，什么？”

‘Oh, so much that’s more important,’ answered Varenka, not knowing what to say. But at that instant they heard the princess’s voice from the window. ‘Kitty, it’s cold! Either get a shawl, or come indoors.’
“哦，那更重要了，”瓦伦卡回答道，不知道该说什么。但就在这时，他们听到了窗外传来公主的声音。 ‘小猫，好冷啊！要么拿一条围巾，要么就进屋去。”

‘It really is time to go in!’ said Varenka, getting up. ‘I have to go on to Madame Berthe’s; she asked me to.’
“确实是该进去的时候了！”瓦伦卡站起身来说道。 “我得去贝尔特夫人家了；”她要求我这样做。

Kitty held her by the hand, and with passionate curiosity and entreaty her eyes asked her: ‘What is it, what is this of such importance that gives you such tranquillity? You know, tell me!’ But Varenka did not even know what Kitty’s eyes were asking her. She merely thought that she had to go to see Madame Berthe too that evening, and to make haste home in time for maman’s tea at twelve o’clock. She went indoors, collected her music, and saying good-bye to everyone, was about to go.
基蒂握着她的手，用充满热情的好奇和恳求的眼神问她：“什么事，什么事如此重要，让你如此平静？”你知道，告诉我！”但瓦伦卡甚至不知道基蒂的眼睛在问她什么。她只是想，那天晚上她也必须去看望贝尔特夫人，并赶在十二点钟赶回家喝妈妈的茶。她走进屋里，收好音乐，跟大家告别，准备离开。

‘Allow me to see you home,’ said the colonel.
“请允许我送你回家，”上校说道。

‘Yes, how can you go alone at night like this?’ chimed in the princess. ‘Anyway, I’ll send Parasha.’
“是啊，你怎么能这么大晚上一个人去呢？”公主插话道。 “无论如何，我会派帕拉莎来。”

Kitty saw that Varenka could hardly restrain a smile at the idea that she needed an escort.
基蒂看到瓦伦卡一想到自己需要有人护送，就忍不住笑了。

‘No, I always go about alone and nothing ever happens to me,’ she said, taking her hat. And kissing Kitty once more, without saying what was important, she stepped out courageously with the music under her arm and vanished into the twilight of the summer night, bearing away with her her secret of what was important and what gave her the calm and dignity so much to be envied.
“不，我总是一个人到处走，从来没有发生过什么事，”她一边说，一边拿着帽子。再次亲吻凯蒂，没有说出重要的事情，她腋下夹着音乐，勇敢地走了出去，消失在夏夜的暮色中，带走了她关于什么是重要的、什么给了她平静和尊严的秘密。太值得羡慕了。

Chapter 33
第33章

Kitty made the acquaintance of Madame Stahl too, and this acquaintance, together with her friendship with Varenka, did not merely exercise a great influence on her, it also comforted her in her mental distress. She found this comfort through a completely new world being opened to her by means of this acquaintance, a world having nothing in common with her past, an exalted, noble world, from the height of which she could contemplate her past calmly. It was revealed to her that besides the instinctive life to which Kitty had given herself up hitherto there was a spiritual life. This life was disclosed in religion, but a religion having nothing in common with that one which Kitty had known from childhood, and which found expression in litanies and all-night services at the Widow’s Home, where one might meet one’s friends, and in learning by heart Slavonic texts with the priest. This was a lofty, mysterious religion connected with a whole series of noble thoughts and feelings, which one could do more than merely believe because one was told to, which one could love.
基蒂也结识了斯塔尔夫人，这次相识，加上她与瓦伦卡的友谊，不仅对她产生了很大的影响，而且也安慰了她精神上的痛苦。她找到了这种安慰，因为这个熟人为她打开了一个全新的世界，一个与她的过去毫无共同之处的世界，一个崇高而高贵的世界，她可以站在这个高度平静地思考她的过去。她得知，除了基蒂迄今为止所放弃的本能生活之外，还有一种精神生活。这种生活是在宗教中揭示的，但这种宗教与基蒂从小就知道的宗教毫无共同之处，它在寡妇之家的连祷文和通宵礼拜中得到表达，在那里人们可能会见自己的朋友，并在学习中与神父背诵斯拉夫语文本。这是一种崇高、神秘的宗教，与一系列崇高的思想和情感联系在一起，人们可以做的不仅仅是因为被告知而相信，也可以热爱。

Kitty found all this out not from words. Madame Stahl talked to Kitty as to a charming child that one looks on with pleasure as on the memory of one’s youth, and only once she said in passing that in all human sorrows nothing gives comfort but love and faith, and that in the sight of Christ’s compassion for us no sorrow is trifling—and immediately talked of other things. But in every gesture of Madame Stahl, in every word, in every heavenly—as Kitty called it—look, and above all in the whole story of her life, which she heard from Varenka, Kitty recognized that something ‘that was important,’ of which, till then, she had known nothing.
凯蒂发现这一切并不是从言语中得知的。斯塔尔夫人与基蒂交谈，就像对待一个迷人的孩子一样，人们会愉快地看着她，就像回忆自己的青春一样，只有一次她顺便说，在人类的所有悲伤中，除了爱和信仰，没有什么能带来安慰，而且在人们的眼中，基督对我们的怜悯是无足轻重的——并且立即谈到了其他事情。但在斯塔尔夫人的每一个动作中，在每一个字里，在每一个天堂——正如基蒂所说的——的眼神中，尤其是在她从瓦伦卡那里听到的她一生的整个故事中，基蒂认识到一些“重要的事情”，在此之前，她对此一无所知。

Yet, elevated as Madame Stahl’s character was, touching as was her story, and exalted and moving as was her speech, Kitty could not help detecting in her some traits which perplexed her. She noticed that when questioning her about her family, Madame Stahl had smiled contemptuously, which was not in accord with Christian meekness. She noticed, too, that when she had found a Catholic priest with her, Madame Stahl had studiously kept her face in the shadow of the lamp-shade and had smiled in a peculiar way. Trivial as these two observations were, they perplexed her, and she had her doubts as to Madame Stahl. But on the other hand Varenka, alone in the world, without friends or relations, with a melancholy disappointment in the past, desiring nothing, regretting nothing, was just that perfection of which Kitty dared hardly dream. In Varenka she realized that one has but to forget oneself and love others, and one will be calm, happy, and noble. And that was what Kitty longed to be. Seeing now clearly what was the most important, Kitty was not satisfied with being enthusiastic over it; she at once gave herself up with her whole soul to the new life that was opening to her. From Varenka’s accounts of the doings of Madame Stahl and other people whom she mentioned, Kitty had already constructed the plan of her own future life. She would, like Madame Stahl’s niece, Aline, of whom Varenka had talked to her a great deal, seek out those who were in trouble, wherever she might be living, help them as far as she could, give them the Gospel, read the Gospel to the sick, to criminals, to the dying. The idea of reading the Gospel to criminals, as Aline did, particularly fascinated Kitty. But all these were secret dreams, of which Kitty did not talk either to her mother or to Varenka.
然而，尽管斯塔尔夫人的性格高尚，她的故事也感人至深，她的演讲也高尚动人，基蒂还是忍不住在她身上发现了一些令她困惑的特质。她注意到，当斯塔尔夫人询问她的家庭情况时，她轻蔑地微笑着，这与基督教的温顺不符。她还注意到，当她发现一位天主教神父和她在一起时，斯塔尔夫人刻意地将脸放在灯罩的阴影下，并以一种奇特的方式微笑。尽管这两个观察是微不足道的，但它们却让她感到困惑，她对斯塔尔夫人产生了怀疑。但另一方面，瓦伦卡孤身一人在世上，没有朋友或亲戚，对过去怀着忧郁的失望，什么都不想要，也不后悔，这正是凯蒂不敢想象的完美。在瓦伦卡身上她体会到，一个人只要忘记自己、爱别人，就会平静、快乐、高尚。这正是基蒂所渴望的。现在清楚地看到什么是最重要的，基蒂并不满足于对此的热情；她立即​​全身心地投入到向她敞开的新生活中。从瓦伦卡对斯塔尔夫人和她提到的其他人的所作所为的描述中，基蒂已经为自己的未来生活制定了计划。她会像斯塔尔夫人的侄女艾琳一样，瓦伦卡曾与她谈过很多关于她的事，无论她身在何处，她都会寻找那些陷入困境的人，尽其所能地帮助他们，给他们传福音，阅读《圣经》。给病人、罪犯、垂死者的福音。像艾琳那样向罪犯朗读福音的想法尤其让基蒂着迷。但所有这些都是秘密的梦想，基蒂没有向她的母亲或瓦伦卡谈论这些梦想。

While awaiting the time for carrying out her plans on a large scale, however, Kitty, even then at the springs, where there were so many people ill and unhappy, readily found a chance for practicing her new principles in imitation of Varenka.
然而，在等待大规模实施她的计划的时候，基蒂即使在温泉里，那里有那么多人生病和不快乐，她很容易找到机会模仿瓦伦卡实践她的新原则。

At first the princess noticed nothing but that Kitty was much under the influence of her engouement, as she called it, for Madame Stahl, and still more for Varenka. She saw that Kitty did not merely imitate Varenka in her conduct, but unconsciously imitated her in her manner of walking, of talking, of blinking her eyes. But later on the princess noticed that, apart from this adoration, some kind of serious spiritual change was taking place in her daughter.
起初，公主没有注意到什么，只注意到基蒂深受她所说的斯塔尔夫人的宴会的影响，尤其是瓦伦卡的宴会。她发现基蒂不仅模仿瓦伦卡的行为，而且不自觉地模仿她的走路方式、说话方式、眨眼方式。但后来公主注意到，除了这种崇拜之外，她女儿的精神上正在发生某种严重的变化。

The princess saw that in the evenings Kitty read a French testament that Madame Stahl had given her—a thing she had never done before; that she avoided society acquaintances and associated with the sick people who were under Varenka’s protection, and especially one poor family, that of a sick painter, Petrov. Kitty was unmistakably proud of playing the part of a sister of mercy in that family. All this was well enough, and the princess had nothing to say against it, especially as Petrov’s wife was a perfectly nice sort of woman, and that the German princess, noticing Kitty’s devotion, praised her, calling her an angel of consolation. All this would have been very well, if there had been no exaggeration. But the princess saw that her daughter was rushing into extremes, and so indeed she told her.
公主看到凯蒂晚上会读斯塔尔夫人给她的一份法国遗嘱——这是她以前从未做过的事；她避开社会上的熟人，并与瓦伦卡保护下的病人交往，尤其是一个贫穷的家庭，即生病的画家彼得罗夫的家庭。基蒂无疑为自己在这个家庭中扮演仁慈的姐妹而感到自豪。这一切都很好，公主没有什么可反对的，特别是彼得罗夫的妻子是一位非常好的女人，而德国公主注意到基蒂的忠诚，称赞她，称她为安慰天使。如果没有夸张的话，这一切本来就很美好。但公主见女儿走极端，果然告诉了她。

‘Il ne faut jamais rien outrer,’ she said to her.
“Il ne faut jamais rien outrer，”她对她说。

Her daughter made her no reply, only in her heart she thought that one could not talk about exaggeration where Christianity was concerned. What exaggeration could there be in the practice of a doctrine wherein one was bidden to turn the other cheek when one was smitten, and give one’s cloak if one’s coat were taken? But the princess disliked this exaggeration, and disliked even more the fact that she felt her daughter did not care to show her all her heart. Kitty did in fact conceal her new views and feelings from her mother. She concealed them not because she did not respect or did not love her mother, but simply because she was her mother. She would have revealed them to anyone sooner than to her mother.
女儿没有回答她，只是心里觉得基督教不能说得太过分。当一个人被击打时，要求他转过另一边脸，如果一个人的外套被拿走，则要给他的斗篷，这在实践中能有多么夸张呢？但公主不喜欢这种夸张，更不喜欢觉得女儿不愿意向她展示自己的真心。事实上，基蒂确实向母亲隐瞒了她的新观点和感受。她隐瞒这些，并不是因为她不尊重、不爱她的母亲，而只是因为她是她的母亲。她会比向她母亲更早地向任何人透露这些信息。

‘How is it Anna Pavlovna’s not been to see us for so long?’ the princess said one day of Madame Petrova. ‘I’ve asked her, but she seems put out about something.’
“安娜·帕夫洛夫娜怎么这么久没有来看我们了？”有一天，公主谈到佩特洛娃夫人时说道。 “我问过她，但她似乎对某事感到不满。”

‘No, I’ve not noticed it, maman,’ said Kitty, flushing hotly.
“不，我没有注意到，妈妈，”基蒂说，脸涨得通红。

‘Is it long since you went to see them?’
“你很久没去看他们了？”

‘We’re meaning to make an expedition to the mountains tomorrow,’ answered Kitty,
“我们打算明天去山上探险，”基蒂回答道，

‘Well, you can go,’ answered the princess, gazing at her daughter’s embarrassed face and trying to guess the cause of her embarrassment.
“好吧，你可以走了。”公主回答道，她盯着女儿尴尬的脸，试图猜测她尴尬的原因。

That day Varenka came to dinner and told them that Anna Pavlovna had changed her mind and given up the expedition for the morrow. And the princess noticed again that Kitty reddened.
那天，瓦伦卡来吃晚饭，告诉他们安娜·帕夫洛夫娜改变了主意，放弃了明天的探险。公主再次注意到凯蒂脸红了。

‘Kitty, haven’t you had some misunderstanding with the Petrovs?’ said the princess, when they were left alone. ‘Why has she given up sending the children and coming to see us?’
“基蒂，你是不是和彼得罗夫夫妇有什么误会？”当只剩下他们俩时，公主问道。 “她为什么放弃送孩子们来看我们？”

Kitty answered that nothing had happened between them, and that she could not tell why Anna Pavlovna seemed displeased with her. Kitty answered perfectly truly. She did not know the reason Anna Pavlovna had changed to her, but she guessed it. She guessed at something which she could not tell her mother, which she did not put into words to herself. It was one of those things which one knows but which one can never speak of even to oneself, so terrible and shameful would it be to be mistaken.
基蒂回答说，他们之间什么也没发生，而且她不明白为什么安娜·帕夫洛夫娜似乎对她不高兴。凯蒂回答得很完美。她不知道安娜·帕夫洛芙娜为什么会变成她，但她猜到了。她猜到了一些她无法告诉母亲的事情，她也没有对自己说出来。这是一件人们都知道的事情，但人们却永远不能对自己说起，如果犯了错误，那将是多么可怕和可耻。

Again and again she went over in her memory all her relations with the family. She remembered the simple delight expressed on the round, good-humored face of Anna Pavlovna at their meetings; she remembered their secret confabulations about the invalid, their plots to draw him away from the work which was forbidden him, and to get him out-of-doors; the devotion of the youngest boy, who used to call her ‘my Kitty,’ and would not go to bed without her. How nice it all was! Then she recalled the thin, terribly thin figure of Petrov, with his long neck, in his brown coat, his scant, curly hair, his questioning blue eyes that were so terrible to Kitty at first, and his painful attempts to seem hearty and lively in her presence. She recalled the efforts she had made at first to overcome the repugnance she felt for him, as for all consumptive people, and the pains it had cost her to think of things to say to him. She recalled the timid, softened look with which he gazed at her, and the strange feeling of compassion and awkwardness, and later of a sense of her own goodness, which she had felt at it. How nice it all was! But all that was at first. Now, a few days ago, everything was suddenly spoiled. Anna Pavlovna had met Kitty with affected cordiality, and had kept continual watch on her and on her husband.
她一次又一次地在记忆中回顾她与这个家庭的所有关系。她记得在他们见面时，安娜·帕夫洛夫娜圆圆的、幽默的脸上所流露出的简单的喜悦。她记得他们关于病人的秘密闲聊，他们密谋让他离开禁止他做的工作，并让他到户外去。最小的男孩常常称她为“我的小猫”，没有她就不会睡觉。一切多么美好啊！然后她想起彼得罗夫瘦瘦的、瘦得可怕的身材，脖子很长，穿着棕色外套，头发稀少，卷曲，充满疑问的蓝眼睛一开始让基蒂感到害怕，他痛苦地试图让自己显得热情活泼。当着她的面。她回忆起起初她为克服对他以及所有肺痨患者的反感所做的努力，以及她为想出要对他说的话而付出的痛苦。她回忆起他注视着她时那种胆怯、柔和的眼神，以及那种奇怪的同情和尴尬的感觉，后来她又感觉到了自己的善良。一切多么美好啊！但这一切都是一开始的事。现在，几天前，一切突然都被破坏了。安娜·帕夫洛夫娜以假装的热情见到了基蒂，并一直监视着她和她的丈夫。

Could that touching pleasure he showed when she came near be the cause of Anna Pavlovna’s coolness?
当她走近时，他表现出的那种令人感动的愉悦，难道就是安娜·帕夫洛夫娜表现得如此冷静的原因吗？

‘Yes,’ she mused, ‘there was something unnatural about Anna Pavlovna, and utterly unlike her good nature, when she said angrily the day before yesterday: ‘There, he will keep waiting for you; he wouldn’t drink his coffee without you, though he’s grown so dreadfully weak.’’
“是的，”她若有所思地说，“安娜·帕夫洛芙娜前天生气地说：‘在那里，他会一直等你；他会一直等你；他会一直等你；’”没有你，他就不会喝咖啡，尽管他已经变得如此虚弱。”

‘Yes, perhaps, too, she didn’t like it when I gave him the rug. It was all so simple, but he took it so awkwardly, and was so long thanking me, that I felt awkward too. And then that portrait of me he did so well. And most of all that look of confusion and tenderness! Yes, yes, that’s it!’ Kitty repeated to herself with horror. ‘No, it can’t be, it oughtn’t to be! He’s so much to be pitied!’ she said to herself directly after.
“是的，也许，当我把地毯给他时，她也不喜欢。一切都是这么简单，但他却这么尴尬地接受了，并且感谢了我这么久，我也感到尴尬。然后他给我拍的那张肖像画得很好。最重要的是那种困惑和温柔的表情！是的，是的，就是这样！”凯蒂惊恐地对自己重复道。 ‘不，这不可能，这是不应该的！他太可怜了！”事后她对自己说。

This doubt poisoned the charm of her new life.
这种怀疑毒害了她新生活的魅力。

Chapter 34
第34章

Before the end of the course of drinking the waters, Prince Shtcherbatsky, who had gone on from Carlsbad to Baden and Kissingen to Russian friends—to get a breath of Russian air, as he said—came back to his wife and daughter.
在喝完这些水之前，谢尔巴茨基王子回到了他的妻子和女儿身边，他从卡尔斯巴德前往巴登，再到基辛根去见俄罗斯朋友——正如他所说，是为了呼吸俄罗斯的空气。

The views of the prince and of the princess on life abroad were completely opposed. The princess thought everything delightful, and in spite of her established position in Russian society, she tried abroad to be like a European fashionable lady, which she was not—for the simple reason that she was a typical Russian gentlewoman; and so she was affected, which did not altogether suit her. The prince, on the contrary, thought everything foreign detestable, got sick of European life, kept to his Russian habits, and purposely tried to show himself abroad less European than he was in reality.
王子和公主对于国外生活的看法截然相反。公主认为一切都令人愉快，尽管她在俄罗斯社会中拥有既定的地位，但她在国外试图像欧洲时尚女士一样，但她没有——原因很简单，因为她是一位典型的俄罗斯淑女；所以她受到了影响，这并不完全适合她。相反，王子认为外国的一切都是可憎的，厌倦了欧洲的生活，保留了他的俄罗斯习惯，并故意在国外表现得不像现实中的欧洲人。

The prince returned thinner, with the skin hanging in loose bags on his cheeks, but in the most cheerful frame of mind. His good humor was even greater when he saw Kitty completely recovered. The news of Kitty’s friendship with Madame Stahl and Varenka, and the reports the princess gave him of some kind of change she had noticed in Kitty, troubled the prince and aroused his habitual feeling of jealousy of everything that drew his daughter away from him, and a dread that his daughter might have got out of the reach of his influence into regions inaccessible to him. But these unpleasant matters were all drowned in the sea of kindliness and good humor which was always within him, and more so than ever since his course of Carlsbad waters.
王子回来时瘦了，脸颊上的皮肤松松垮垮，但心情却很愉快。当看到凯蒂完全康复后，他的心情更加愉悦。基蒂与斯塔尔夫人和瓦伦卡的友谊的消息，以及公主向他报告的她在基蒂身上注意到的某种变化，使王子感到不安，并引起了他对一切使他的女儿远离他的事物的习惯性嫉妒感，并且担心他的女儿可能会脱离他的影响力，进入他无法进入的地区。但这些不愉快的事情都淹没在他内心始终充满的仁慈和幽默的海洋中，自从他在卡尔斯巴德海域航行以来，这种情况比以往任何时候都更加明显。

The day after his arrival the prince, in his long overcoat, with his Russian wrinkles and baggy cheeks propped up by a starched collar, set off with his daughter to the spring in the greatest good humor.
抵达后的第二天，王子穿着长大衣，带着俄罗斯式的皱纹，浆过的衣领支撑着松垮的脸颊，兴高采烈地带着女儿出发去春天。

It was a lovely morning: the bright, cheerful houses with their little gardens, the sight of the red-faced, red-armed, beer-drinking German waitresses, working away merrily, did the heart good. But the nearer they got to the springs the oftener they met sick people; and their appearance seemed more pitiable than ever among the everyday conditions of prosperous German life. Kitty was no longer struck by this contrast. The bright sun, the brilliant green of the foliage, the strains of the music were for her the natural setting of all these familiar faces, with their changes to greater emaciation or to convalescence, for which she watched. But to the prince the brightness and gaiety of the June morning, and the sound of the orchestra playing a gay waltz then in fashion, and above all, the appearance of the healthy attendants, seemed something unseemly and monstrous, in conjunction with these slowly moving, dying figures gathered together from all parts of Europe. In spite of his feeling of pride and, as it were, of the return of youth, with his favorite daughter on his arm, he felt awkward, and almost ashamed of his vigorous step and his sturdy, stout limbs. He felt almost like a man not dressed in a crowd.
这是一个美好的早晨：明亮、欢快的房子和小花园，红脸、红臂、喝着啤酒的德国女服务员愉快地工作，使心脏受益匪浅。但越靠近泉水，就越常遇到病人。在德国人富裕的日常生活中，他们的外表似乎比以往任何时候都更加可怜。基蒂不再对这种对比感到震惊。明媚的阳光、翠绿的树叶、悠扬的音乐，对她来说都是所有这些熟悉的面孔的自然背景，她注视着他们变得更加憔悴或康复。但对王子来说，六月早晨的明亮和欢乐，管弦乐队演奏着当时流行的欢快华尔兹的声音，尤其是健康侍从的外表，与这些缓慢移动的东西结合在一起，似乎有些不合时宜和可怕的。 ，来自欧洲各地的垂死人物聚集在一起。尽管他感到自豪，可以说，他的手臂上挽着他最喜欢的女儿，他感到自己又回到了青春，但他却感到很尴尬，几乎为自己有力的步伐和粗壮的四肢感到羞愧。他感觉自己就像一个不穿衣服出现在人群中的人。

‘Present me to your new friends,’ he said to his daughter, squeezing her hand with his elbow. ‘I like even your horrid Soden for making you so well again. Only it’s melancholy, very melancholy here. Who’s that?’
“把我介绍给你的新朋友，”他对女儿说，用肘部捏着她的手。 “我什至喜欢你那可怕的索登，因为他让你又恢复了健康。”只是这里很忧郁，非常忧郁。那是谁？'

Kitty mentioned the names of all the people they met, with some of whom she was acquainted and some not. At the entrance of the garden they met the blind lady, Madame Berthe, with her guide, and the prince was delighted to see the old Frenchwoman’s face light up when she heard Kitty’s voice. She at once began talking to him with French exaggerated politeness, applauding him for having such a delightful daughter, extolling Kitty to the skies before her face, and calling her a treasure, a pearl, and a consoling angel.
基蒂提到了他们遇到的所有人的名字，其中有些是她认识的，有些是不认识的。在花园入口处，他们遇到了盲人女士贝尔特夫人和她的向导，王子很高兴看到这位法国老妇人听到基蒂的声音时脸上露出了笑容。她立刻开始用法国人夸张的礼貌和他说话，称赞他有一个如此可爱的女儿，当着她的面把凯蒂捧上天，称她为宝贝、珍珠、安慰天使。

‘Well, she’s the second angel, then,’ said the prince, smiling. ‘she calls Mademoiselle Varenka angel number one.’
“那么，她就是第二位天使了，”王子微笑着说道。 “她称瓦伦卡小姐为第一天使。”

‘Oh! Mademoiselle Varenka, she’s a real angel, allez,’ Madame Berthe assented.
'哦！瓦伦卡小姐，她是一位真正的天使，好啊，”贝尔特夫人表示同意。

In the arcade they met Varenka herself. She was walking rapidly towards them carrying an elegant red bag.
在拱廊里，他们遇见了瓦伦卡本人。她提着一个优雅的红色包包，快步向他们走来。

‘Here is papa come,’ Kitty said to her.
“爸爸来了，”基蒂对她说。

Varenka made—simply and naturally as she did everything—a movement between a bow and a curtsey, and immediately began talking to the prince, without shyness, naturally, as she talked to everyone.
瓦伦卡做了一个介于鞠躬和屈膝礼之间的动作，就像她做任何事情一样简单而自然，然后立即开始与王子交谈，毫不害羞，自然，就像她对每个人交谈一样。

‘Of course I know you; I know you very well,’ the prince said to her with a smile, in which Kitty detected with joy that her father liked her friend. ‘Where are you off to in such haste?’
‘我当然认识你； “我很了解你。”王子微笑着对她说，基蒂高兴地发现父亲喜欢她的朋友。 “这么着急，你要去哪里？”

‘Maman’s here,’ she said, turning to Kitty. ‘She has not slept all night, and the doctor advised her to go out. I’m taking her her work.’
“妈妈在这里，”她转向基蒂说道。 ‘她一夜没睡，医生建议她出去。我要把她的工作交给她。

‘So that’s angel number one?’ said the prince when Varenka had gone on.
“那么，那是第一号天使？”瓦伦卡继续说下去时，王子问道。

Kitty saw that her father had meant to make fun of Varenka, but that he could not do it because he liked her.
基蒂看出父亲是想取笑瓦伦卡，但他不能这么做，因为他喜欢她。

‘Come, so we shall see all your friends,’ he went on, ‘even Madame Stahl, if she deigns to recognize me.’
“来吧，这样我们就能见到你所有的朋友了，”他继续说道，“甚至包括斯塔尔夫人，如果她能认出我的话。”

‘Why, did you know her, papa?’ Kitty asked apprehensively, catching the gleam of irony that kindled in the prince’s eyes at the mention of Madame Stahl.
“为什么，你认识她，爸爸？”基蒂忧心忡忡地问道，她注意到王子一提到斯塔尔夫人，眼中就闪烁着讽刺的光芒。

‘I used to know her husband, and her too a little, before she’d joined the Pietists.’
“在她加入敬虔派之前，我曾经认识她的丈夫，对她也有一点了解。”

‘What is a Pietist, papa?’ asked Kitty, dismayed to find that what she prized so highly in Madame Stahl had a name.
“爸爸，什么是敬虔主义者？”基蒂问道，她沮丧地发现斯塔尔夫人身上她如此珍视的东西竟然有一个名字。

‘I don’t quite know myself. I only know that she thanks God for everything, for every misfortune, and thanks God too that her husband died. And that’s rather droll, as they didn’t get on together.’
‘我不太了解自己。我只知道她感谢上帝的一切，感谢上帝的每一次不幸，也感谢上帝让她的丈夫去世了。这很滑稽，因为他们相处得不好。

‘Who’s that? What a piteous face!’ he asked, noticing a sick man of medium height sitting on a bench, wearing a brown overcoat and white trousers that fell in strange folds about his long, fleshless legs. This man lifted his straw hat, showed his scanty curly hair and high forehead, painfully reddened by the pressure of the hat.
'那是谁？多么可怜的脸啊！”他问道，注意到一个中等身材的病人坐在长凳上，穿着棕色大衣和白色裤子，奇怪的褶皱落在他长而无肉的腿上。这人掀起了草帽，露出稀疏的卷发和高高的额头，被帽子压得通红。

‘That’s Petrov, an artist,’ answered Kitty, blushing. ‘And that’s his wife,’ she added, indicating Anna Pavlovna, who, as though on purpose, at the very instant they approached walked away after a child that had run off along a path.
“那是彼得罗夫，一位艺术家。”基蒂红着脸回答道。 “那是他的妻子，”她补充道，指着安娜·帕夫洛夫娜，在他们走近的那一刻，安娜·帕夫洛夫娜似乎是故意的，跟着一个沿着小路跑掉的孩子走开了。

‘Poor fellow! and what a nice face he has!’ said the prince. ‘Why don’t you go up to him? He wanted to speak to you.’
'可怜的家伙！他的脸多漂亮啊！”王子说道。 ‘你为什么不去找他？他想和你说话。

‘Well, let us go, then,’ said Kitty, turning round resolutely. ‘How are you feeling today?’ she asked Petrov.
“好吧，那我们走吧。”基蒂坚定地转过身说道。 “你今天感觉怎么样？”她问彼得罗夫。

Petrov got up, leaning on his stick, and looked shyly at the prince.
彼得罗夫站起来，拄着拐杖，害羞地看着王子。

‘This is my daughter,’ said the prince. ‘Let me introduce myself.’
“这是我的女儿，”王子说。 '让我自我介绍一下。'

The painter bowed and smiled, showing his strangely dazzling white teeth.
画家躬身微笑，露出奇异耀眼的白牙。

‘We expected you yesterday, princess,’ he said to Kitty. He staggered as he said this, and then repeated the motion, trying to make it seem as if it had been intentional.
“我们昨天就在等你，公主，”他对基蒂说。他说这句话时摇摇晃晃，然后又重复了这个动作，试图让自己看起来像是故意的。

‘I meant to come, but Varenka said that Anna Pavlovna sent word you were not going.’
“我本来想来的，但瓦伦卡说安娜·帕夫洛夫娜送来了你不去的消息。”

‘Not going!’ said Petrov, blushing, and immediately beginning to cough, and his eyes sought his wife. ‘Anita! Anita!’ he said loudly, and the swollen veins stood out like cords on his thin white neck.
“不去！”彼得罗夫说，脸红了，立刻开始咳嗽，眼睛寻找着他的妻子。 ‘安妮塔！安妮塔！”他大声说道，细白的脖子上肿胀的血管像绳子一样突出。

Anna Pavlovna came up.
安娜·帕夫洛夫娜走了过来。

‘So you sent word to the princess that we weren’t going!’ he whispered to her angrily, losing his voice.
“所以你传话给公主说我们不会去！”他愤怒地低声对她说，声音哑了。

‘Good morning, princess,’ said Anna Pavlovna, with an assumed smile utterly unlike her former manner. ‘Very glad to make your acquaintance,’ she said to the prince. ‘You’ve long been expected, prince.’
“早上好，公主。”安娜·帕夫洛夫娜说道，脸上带着与以前完全不同的笑容。 “很高兴认识你，”她对王子说。 “人们一直在期待您的到来，王子。”

‘What did you send word to the princess that we weren’t going for?’ the artist whispered hoarsely once more, still more angrily, obviously exasperated that his voice failed him so that he could not give his words the expression he would have liked to.
“你给公主发了什么消息说我们不去？”艺术家再次沙哑地低声说道，更加愤怒，显然是因为他的声音失败了，所以他无法表达出他想要的表达方式，这让他很恼火。到。

‘Oh, mercy on us! I thought we weren’t going,’ his wife answered crossly.
‘哦，怜悯我们吧！我以为我们不会去。”他的妻子生气地回答道。

‘What, when....’ He coughed and waved his hand. The prince took off his hat and moved away with his daughter.
“什么，什么时候……”他咳嗽了一声，挥了挥手。王子摘下帽子，带着女儿离开了。

‘Ah! ah!’ he sighed deeply. ‘Oh, poor things!’
'啊！啊！”他深深地叹了口气。 “哦，可怜的东西！”

‘Yes, papa,’ answered Kitty. ‘And you must know they’ve three children, no servant, and scarcely any means. He gets something from the Academy,’ she went on briskly, trying to drown the distress that the queer change in Anna Pavlovna’s manner to her had aroused in her.
“是的，爸爸，”基蒂回答。 “你必须知道他们有三个孩子，没有仆人，几乎没有任何经济来源。他从学院得到了一些东西，”她轻快地继续说道，试图淹没安娜·帕夫洛夫娜对她态度的奇怪变化给她带来的痛苦。

‘Oh, here’s Madame Stahl,’ said Kitty, indicating an invalid carriage, where, propped on pillows, something in gray and blue was lying under a sunshade. This was Madame Stahl. Behind her stood the gloomy, healthy-looking German workman who pushed the carriage. Close by was standing a flaxen-headed Swedish count, whom Kitty knew by name. Several invalids were lingering near the low carriage, staring at the lady as though she were some curiosity.
“噢，斯塔尔夫人来了，”基蒂指着一辆伤残的马车说道，车上的遮阳伞下躺着一个灰色和蓝色的东西，靠在枕头上。这是斯塔尔夫人。她身后站着推着马车的那个面色阴沉、看上去很健康的德国工人。附近站着一位淡黄色头发的瑞典伯爵，基蒂知道他的名字。几个病人在低矮的马车附近徘徊，好奇地看着这位女士。

The prince went up to her, and Kitty detected that disconcerting gleam of irony in his eyes. He went up to Madame Stahl, and addressed her with extreme courtesy and affability in that excellent French that so few speak nowadays.
王子走到她面前，基蒂察觉到他眼中闪烁着令人不安的讽刺光芒。他走到斯塔尔夫人面前，用现在很少有人会说的流利法语，极其礼貌和和蔼地与她交谈。

‘I don’t know if you remember me, but I must recall myself to thank you for your kindness to my daughter,’ he said, taking off his hat and not putting it on again.
“我不知道你是否还记得我，但我必须回忆起自己，感谢你对我女儿的好意，”他说，摘下帽子，没有再戴上。

‘Prince Alexander Shtcherbatsky,’ said Madame Stahl, lifting upon him her heavenly eyes, in which Kitty discerned a look of annoyance. ‘Delighted! I have taken a great fancy to your daughter.’
“亚历山大·谢尔巴茨基王子。”斯塔尔夫人抬起她那双天上的眼睛看着他，基蒂在其中看出了一丝恼怒。 '高兴极了！我非常喜欢你的女儿。

‘You are still in weak health?’
“你的身体还很虚弱吗？”

‘Yes; I’m used to it,’ said Madame Stahl, and she introduced the prince to the Swedish count.
'是的; “我已经习惯了。”斯塔尔夫人说道，然后她把王子介绍给了瑞典伯爵。

‘You are scarcely changed at all,’ the prince said to her. ‘It’s ten or eleven years since I had the honor of seeing you.’
“你几乎没有任何改变，”王子对她说。 “我有幸见到你已经有十年或十一年了。”

‘Yes; God sends the cross and sends the strength to bear it. Often one wonders what is the goal of this life?... The other side!’ she said angrily to Varenka, who had rearranged the rug over her feet not to her satisfaction.
'是的;神赐下十字架，也赐下力量来背负它。人们常常想知道这一生的目标是什么？……另一边！”她愤怒地对瓦伦卡说道，瓦伦卡重新把她脚上的地毯重新布置得令她不满意。

‘To do good, probably,’ said the prince with a twinkle in his eye.
“也许是为了做好事，”王子说道，眼睛里闪烁着光芒。

‘That is not for us to judge,’ said Madame Stahl, perceiving the shade of expression on the prince’s face. ‘So you will send me that book, dear count? I’m very grateful to you,’ she said to the young Swede.
“这不是我们可以判断的，”斯塔尔夫人说道，察觉到了王子脸上的阴暗表情。 “所以你会把那本书寄给我吗，亲爱的伯爵？我非常感谢你，”她对年轻的瑞典人说。

‘Ah!’ cried the prince, catching sight of the Moscow colonel standing near, and with a bow to Madame Stahl he walked away with his daughter and the Moscow colonel, who joined them.
“啊！”王子看到站在附近的莫斯科上校，喊道，向斯塔尔夫人鞠了一躬，他带着女儿和莫斯科上校走开了，他们也加入了他们。

‘That’s our aristocracy, prince!’ the Moscow colonel said with ironical intention. He cherished a grudge against Madame Stahl for not making his acquaintance.
“这就是我们的贵族，王子！”莫斯科上校讽刺地说。他对斯塔尔夫人怀恨在心，因为他没有结识斯塔尔夫人。

‘She’s just the same,’ replied the prince.
“她还是一样，”王子回答道。

‘Did you know her before her illness, prince—that’s to say before she took to her bed?’
“您在她生病之前认识她吗，王子——也就是说，在她上床睡觉之前？”

‘Yes. She took to her bed before my eyes,’ said the prince.
'是的。她在我眼前躺在床上，”王子说道。

‘They say it’s ten years since she has stood on her feet.’
“他们说她已经十年没有站起来了。”

‘She doesn’t stand up because her legs are too short. She’s a very bad figure.’
“她没有站起来，因为她的腿太短了。她是一个非常糟糕的人物。

‘Papa, it’s not possible!’ cried Kitty.
“爸爸，这不可能！”基蒂喊道。

‘That’s what wicked tongues say, my darling. And your Varenka catches it too,’ he added. ‘Oh, these invalid ladies!’
‘这就是邪恶的舌头所说的，我亲爱的。你的瓦伦卡也抓住了它，”他补充道。 “哦，这些病弱的女士们！”

‘Oh, no, papa!’ Kitty objected warmly. ‘Varenka worships her. And then she does so much good! Ask anyone! Everyone knows her and Aline Stahl.’
“哦，不，爸爸！”基蒂热烈地反对。 “瓦伦卡崇拜她。然后她做了很多好事！问任何人！每个人都认识她和艾琳斯塔尔。

‘Perhaps so,’ said the prince, squeezing her hand with his elbow; ‘but it’s better when one does good so that you may ask everyone and no one knows.’
“也许是这样，”王子说，用肘部捏住她的手。 “但最好是一个人做好事，这样你就可以问所有人，却没有人知道。”

Kitty did not answer, not because she had nothing to say, but because she did not care to reveal her secret thoughts even to her father. But, strange to say, although she had so made up her mind not to be influenced by her father’s views, not to let him into her inmost sanctuary, she felt that the heavenly image of Madame Stahl, which she had carried for a whole month in her heart, had vanished, never to return, just as the fantastic figure made up of some clothes thrown down at random vanishes when one sees that it is only some garment lying there. All that was left was a woman with short legs, who lay down because she had a bad figure, and worried patient Varenka for not arranging her rug to her liking. And by no effort of the imagination could Kitty bring back the former Madame Stahl.
凯蒂没有回答，不是因为她无话可说，而是因为她甚至不愿意向父亲透露自己的秘密想法。但奇怪的是，尽管她已经下定决心不被父亲的观点影响，不让他进入她最内心的庇护所，但她却觉得自己怀着整整一个月的斯塔尔夫人的天堂般的形象在她心里，已经消失了，再也没有回来，就像那由随意扔下的衣服组成的梦幻人物，当你看到那只是一件衣服时，就消失了。只剩下一个腿短的女人，她因为身材不好而躺了下来，并担心病人瓦伦卡没有按照自己的喜好安排地毯。基蒂无论如何也无法带回以前的斯塔尔夫人。

Chapter 35
第35章

The prince communicated his good humor to his own family and his friends, and even to the German landlord in whose rooms the Shtcherbatskys were staying.
王子向自己的家人和朋友表达了他的幽默感，甚至向谢尔巴茨基夫妇所住房间的德国房东表达了他的幽默感。

On coming back with Kitty from the springs, the prince, who had asked the colonel, and Marya Yevgenyevna, and Varenka all to come and have coffee with them, gave orders for a table and chairs to be taken into the garden under the chestnut tree, and lunch to be laid there. The landlord and the servants, too, grew brisker under the influence of his good spirits. They knew his open-handedness; and half an hour later the invalid doctor from Hamburg, who lived on the top floor, looked enviously out of the window at the merry party of healthy Russians assembled under the chestnut tree. In the trembling circles of shadow cast by the leaves, at a table, covered with a white cloth, and set with coffeepot, bread-and-butter, cheese, and cold game, sat the princess in a high cap with lilac ribbons, distributing cups and bread-and-butter. At the other end sat the prince, eating heartily, and talking loudly and merrily. The prince had spread out near him his purchases, carved boxes, and knick-knacks, paper-knives of all sorts, of which he bought a heap at every watering-place, and bestowed them upon everyone, including Lieschen, the servant girl, and the landlord, with whom he jested in his comically bad German, assuring him that it was not the water had cured Kitty, but his splendid cookery, especially his plum soup. The princess laughed at her husband for his Russian ways, but she was more lively and good-humored than she had been all the while she had been at the waters. The colonel smiled, as he always did, at the prince’s jokes, but as far as regards Europe, of which he believed himself to be making a careful study, he took the princess’s side. The simple-hearted Marya Yevgenyevna simply roared with laughter at everything absurd the prince said, and his jokes made Varenka helpless with feeble but infectious laughter, which was something Kitty had never seen before.
带着凯蒂从泉水回来后，王子邀请上校、玛丽亚·叶夫根尼耶夫娜和瓦伦卡一起来喝咖啡，他吩咐把桌子和椅子搬到花园里的栗子树下。 ，午餐就放在那里。地主和仆人们在他的好心情的影响下也变得精神抖擞。他们知道他的慷慨。半小时后，住在顶楼的来自汉堡的病人医生羡慕地看着窗外聚集在栗树下的健康俄罗斯人的欢乐聚会。在树叶投下的一圈圈颤抖的阴影中，公主坐在一张铺着白布、摆着咖啡壶、面包黄油、奶酪和冷野味的桌子旁，戴着一顶饰有淡紫色丝带的高帽，分发着食物。杯子和面包和黄油。另一头坐着王子，他正在吃得津津有味，大声说话。王子把他买的东西摊在身边，雕花的盒子、小摆设、各种裁纸刀，他在每个饮水处都买了一堆，送给每个人，包括女仆利申，他用蹩脚的德语跟房东开玩笑，向他保证不是水治愈了基蒂，而是他出色的厨艺，尤其是他的梅子汤。公主嘲笑她丈夫的俄罗斯风格，但她比在水里时更加活泼、幽默。听到王子的笑话，上校一如既往地微笑着，但就欧洲而言，他相信自己正在仔细研究欧洲，他站在公主一边。 心地单纯的玛丽亚·叶夫根尼耶夫娜只是对王子所说的一切荒唐事哈哈大笑，他的笑话让瓦伦卡无可奈何，笑声微弱却富有感染力，这是凯蒂从未见过的。

Kitty was glad of all this, but she could not be light-hearted. She could not solve the problem her father had unconsciously set her by his goodhumored view of her friends, and of the life that had so attracted her. To this doubt there was joined the change in her relations with the Petrovs, which had been so conspicuously and unpleasantly marked that morning. Everyone was good humored, but Kitty could not feel good humored, and this increased her distress. She felt a feeling such as she had known in childhood, when she had been shut in her room as a punishment, and had heard her sisters’ merry laughter outside.
凯蒂对此很高兴，但她却不能轻松。她无法解决父亲对她的朋友以及如此吸引她的生活的幽默看法，无意识地给她带来的问题。除了这种怀疑之外，她与彼得罗夫一家的关系也发生了变化，那天早上这种关系变得如此明显和不愉快。每个人都很幽默，但凯蒂却感觉不到幽默，这增加了她的苦恼。她感受到了一种童年时的感觉，当时她被关在自己的房间里作为惩罚，听到外面姐姐们欢快的笑声。

‘Well, but what did you buy this mass of things for?’ said the princess, smiling, and handing her husband a cup of coffee.
“好吧，但是你买这么多东西干什么？”公主微笑着说道，递给丈夫一杯咖啡。

‘One goes for a walk, one looks in a shop, and they ask you to buy. ‘Erlaucht, Durchlaucht?’ Directly they say ‘Durchlaucht,’ I can’t hold out. I lose ten thalers.’
“一个人去散步，一个人去商店看看，他们会请你买东西。 “Erlaucht，Durchlaucht？”他们直接说“Durchlaucht”，我实在忍不住了。我损失了十塔勒。

‘It’s simply from boredom,’ said the princess.
“这只是因为无聊，”公主说。

‘Of course it is. Such boredom, my dear, that one doesn’t know what to do with oneself.’
'当然如此。亲爱的，无聊得让人不知道该做什么。

‘How can you be bored, prince? There’s so much that’s interesting now in Germany,’ said Marya Yevgenyevna.
‘王子，你怎么会觉得无聊呢？德国现在有很多有趣的事情，”玛丽亚·叶夫根尼耶芙娜 (Marya Yevgenyevna) 说道。

‘But I know everything that’s interesting: the plum soup I know, and the pea sausages I know. I know everything.’
“但我知道一切有趣的东西：我知道梅子汤，我知道豌豆香肠。我知道所有的东西。'

‘No, you may say what you like, prince, there’s the interest of their institutions,’ said the colonel.
“不，你想说什么都可以，王子，这是他们机构的利益，”上校说。

‘But what is there interesting about it? They’re all as pleased as brass halfpence. They’ve conquered everybody, and why am I to be pleased at that? I haven’t conquered anyone; and I’m obliged to take off my own boots, yes, and put them away too; in the morning, get up and dress at once, and go to the dining room to drink bad tea! How different it is at home! You get up in no haste, you get cross, grumble a little, and come round again. You’ve time to think things over, and no hurry.’
‘但是这有什么有趣的呢？他们都很高兴。他们已经征服了所有人，我为什么要为此感到高兴呢？我没有征服任何人；是的，我不得不脱掉自己的靴子，并将它们也收起来。早上，立刻起床穿好衣服，去餐厅喝坏茶！在家里是多么的不同啊！你不慌不忙地站起来，你生气了，抱怨了一会儿，然后又回过神来。你有时间好好考虑一下，别着急。”

‘But time’s money, you forget that,’ said the colonel.
“但是时间就是金钱，你忘了这一点，”上校说。

‘Time, indeed, that depends! Why, there’s time one would give a month of for sixpence, and time you wouldn’t give half an hour of for any money. Isn’t that so, Katinka? What is it? why are you so depressed?’
“确实，时间要看情况！为什么，有些时间人们愿意花六便士花一个月的时间，而有些时间你不会花任何钱花半个小时。不是这样吗，卡廷卡？它是什么？你为什么这么沮丧？

‘I’m not depressed.’
“我没有抑郁。”

‘Where are you off to? Stay a little longer,’ he said to Varenka.
'你要去哪里？多呆一会儿，”他对瓦伦卡说。

‘I must be going home,’ said Varenka, getting up, and again she went off into a giggle. When she had recovered, she said good-bye, and went into the house to get her hat.
“我得回家了，”瓦伦卡站起来说道，然后她又咯咯地笑了起来。当她恢复过来后，她道了再见，进屋去拿帽子。

Kitty followed her. Even Varenka struck her as different. She was not worse, but different from what she had fancied her before.
凯蒂跟着她。就连瓦伦卡也让她觉得与众不同。她并不差，只是和她想象中的她不一样。

‘Oh, dear! it’s a long while since I’ve laughed so much!’ said Varenka, gathering up her parasol and her bag. ‘How nice he is, your father!’
'哦亲爱的！ “我已经很久没有笑得这么开心了！”瓦伦卡一边说，一边收起她的阳伞和包。 “他真是太好了，你的父亲！”

Kitty did not speak.
基蒂没有说话。

‘When shall I see you again?’ asked Varenka.
“我什么时候才能再见到你？”瓦伦卡问道。

‘Mamma meant to go and see the Petrovs. Won’t you be there?’ said Kitty, to try Varenka.
“妈妈想去看看彼得罗夫一家。你不去吗？”基蒂说，想试试瓦伦卡。

‘Yes,’ answered Varenka. ‘They’re getting ready to go away, so I promised to help them pack.’
“是的，”瓦伦卡回答。 “他们正准备离开，所以我答应帮他们收拾行李。”

‘Well, I’ll come too, then.’
“好吧，那我也来吧。”

‘No, why should you?’
“不，你为什么要这么做？”

‘Why not? why not? why not?’ said Kitty, opening her eyes wide, and clutching at Varenka’s parasol, so as not to let her go. ‘No, wait a minute; why not?’
'为什么不？为什么不？ “为什么不呢？”凯蒂睁大眼睛说道，紧紧抓住瓦伦卡的阳伞，不让她走。 ‘不，等一下；为什么不？'

‘Oh, nothing; your father has come, and besides, they will feel awkward at your helping.’
‘哦，没什么；你父亲来了，而且，他们会因为你的帮助而感到尴尬。

‘No, tell me why you don’t want me to be often at the Petrovs’. You don’t want me to—why not?’
“不，告诉我为什么你不想让我经常去彼得罗夫家。”你不想让我这么做——为什么不呢？

‘I didn’t say that,’ said Varenka quietly.
“我没这么说。”瓦伦卡平静地说。

‘No, please tell me!’
“不，请告诉我！”

‘Tell you everything?’ asked Varenka.
“告诉你一切？”瓦伦卡问。

‘Everything, everything!’ Kitty assented.
“一切，一切！”基蒂附和道。

‘Well, there’s really nothing of any consequence; only that Mihail Alexeyevitch’ (that was the artist’s name) ‘had meant to leave earlier, and now he doesn’t want to go away,’ said Varenka, smiling.
“好吧，确实没有什么重要的事情；只是米哈伊尔·阿列克谢耶维奇”（这是艺术家的名字）“本来想早点离开，但现在他不想走，”瓦伦卡微笑着说道。

‘Well, well!’ Kitty urged impatiently, looking darkly at Varenka.
“好吧，好吧！”基蒂不耐烦地催促道，阴沉地看着瓦伦卡。

‘Well, and for some reason Anna Pavlovna told him that he didn’t want to go because you are here. Of course, that was nonsense; but there was a dispute over it—over you. You know how irritable these sick people are.’
“好吧，出于某种原因，安娜·帕夫洛夫娜告诉他，他不想走，因为你在这里。当然，这是无稽之谈。但关于这件事——关于你——存在争议。你知道这些病人有多烦躁。

Kitty, scowling more than ever, kept silent, and Varenka went on speaking alone, trying to soften or soothe her, and seeing a storm coming—she did not know whether of tears or of words.
基蒂的愁眉苦脸比以往任何时候都更严重，保持沉默，瓦伦卡继续独自说话，试图软化或安抚她，并看到暴风雨即将来临——她不知道是泪水还是言语。

‘So you’d better not go.... You understand; you won’t be offended?...’
‘所以你最好别去……你明白；你不会生气吧？……”

‘And it serves me right! And it serves me right!’ Kitty cried quickly, snatching the parasol out of Varenka’s hand, and looking past her friend’s face.
‘这对我来说是对的！这对我来说是对的！”基蒂迅速喊道，从瓦伦卡手中夺过阳伞，目光越过她朋友的脸。

Varenka felt inclined to smile, looking at her childish fury, but she was afraid of wounding her.
瓦伦卡看着她孩子气的愤怒，想微笑，但她害怕伤害她。

‘How does it serve you right? I don’t understand,’ she said.
‘它对你有什么好处？我不明白，”她说。

‘It serves me right, because it was all sham; because it was all done on purpose, and not from the heart. What business had I to interfere with outsiders? And so it’s come about that I’m a cause of quarrel, and that I’ve done what nobody asked me to do. Because it was all a sham! a sham! a sham!...’
“这对我来说是对的，因为这都是假的；因为这一切都是故意的，而不是发自内心的。我有什么事要干涉外人呢？所以我成了争吵的根源，而且我做了没人要求我做的事。因为这一切都是骗局！一个骗局！一个骗局！...”

‘A sham! with what object?’ said Varenka gently.
‘一个骗局！ “什么东西？”瓦伦卡温和地说。

‘Oh, it’s so idiotic! so hateful! There was no need whatever for me.... Nothing but sham!’ she said, opening and shutting the parasol.
‘噢，这真是太愚蠢了！太可恨了！对我来说没有任何必要……只不过是假的！”她一边说，一边打开又合上遮阳伞。

‘But with what object?’
“但是用什么东西呢？”

‘To seem better to people, to myself, to God; to deceive everyone. No! now I won’t descend to that. I’ll be bad; but anyway not a liar, a cheat.’
“让人们、我自己、上帝看起来更好；来欺骗所有人。不！现在我不会再谈这个了。我会变坏；但无论如何，他不是骗子，是骗子。”

‘But who is a cheat?’ said Varenka reproachfully. ‘You speak as if...’
“但是谁是骗子呢？”瓦伦卡责备地说。 “你说得好像……”

But Kitty was in one of her gusts of fury, and she would not let her finish.
但基蒂正处于一阵狂怒之中，她不肯让她说完。

‘I don’t talk about you, not about you at all. You’re perfection. Yes, yes, I know you’re all perfection; but what am I to do if I’m bad? This would never have been if I weren’t bad. So let me be what I am. I won’t be a sham. What have I to do with Anna Pavlovna? Let them go their way, and me go mine. I can’t be different.... And yet it’s not that, it’s not that.’
“我不是在谈论你，根本不是在谈论你。你是完美的。是的，是的，我知道你们都是完美的；但如果我不好怎么办？如果我不坏的话，这永远不会发生。所以让我成为我自己吧。我不会是一个骗子。我和安娜·帕夫洛芙娜有什么关系？让他们走他们的路，我走我的路。我不能有所不同……但事实并非如此，并非如此。

‘What is not that?’ asked Varenka in bewilderment.
“那不是什么呢？”瓦伦卡困惑地问道。

‘Everything. I can’t act except from the heart, and you act from principle. I liked you simply, but you most likely only wanted to save me, to improve me.’
'一切。我只能凭心而行，而你则凭原则而行。我只是喜欢你，但你很可能只是想拯救我，提高我。

‘You are unjust,’ said Varenka.
“你不公正，”瓦伦卡说。

‘But I’m not speaking of other people, I’m speaking of myself.’
“但我不是在说别人，我是在说我自己。”

‘Kitty,’ they heard her mother’s voice, ‘come here, show papa your necklace.’
“基蒂，”他们听到她母亲的声音，“过来，给爸爸看你的项链。”

Kitty, with a haughty air, without making peace with her friend, took the necklace in a little box from the table and went to her mother.
基蒂带着傲慢的神情，没有与她的朋友和解，而是从桌子上拿起装在小盒子里的项链，走向她的母亲。

‘What’s the matter? Why are you so red?’ her mother and father said to her with one voice.
'怎么了？你怎么这么红？”爸爸妈妈异口同声地对她说道。

‘Nothing,’ she answered. ‘I’ll be back directly,’ and she ran back.
“没什么，”她回答。 “我马上就回来。”说着她就跑了回去。

‘She’s still here,’ she thought. ‘What am I to say to her? Oh, dear! what have I done, what have I said? Why was I rude to her? What am I to do? What am I to say to her?’ thought Kitty, and she stopped in the doorway.
“她还在这里，”她想。 ‘我该对她说什么？哦亲爱的！我做了什么，我说过什么？我为什么对她无礼？我是什么做的？ “我该对她说什么？”基蒂想道，然后她在门口停了下来。

Varenka in her hat and with the parasol in her hands was sitting at the table examining the spring which Kitty had broken. She lifted her head.
瓦伦卡戴着帽子，手里拿着阳伞，坐在桌边检查基蒂弄断的弹簧。她抬起头。

‘Varenka, forgive me, do forgive me,’ whispered Kitty, going up to her. ‘I don’t remember what I said. I...’
“瓦伦卡，原谅我，一定要原谅我，”基蒂走到她面前低声说道。 ‘我不记得我说过什么了。我...'

‘I really didn’t mean to hurt you,’ said Varenka, smiling.
“我真的不是故意伤害你的，”瓦伦卡微笑着说道。

Peace was made. But with her father’s coming all the world in which she had been living was transformed for Kitty. She did not give up everything she had learned, but she became aware that she had deceived herself in supposing she could be what she wanted to be. Her eyes were, it seemed, opened; she felt all the difficulty of maintaining herself without hypocrisy and self-conceit on the pinnacle to which she had wished to mount. Moreover, she became aware of all the dreariness of the world of sorrow, of sick and dying people, in which she had been living. The efforts she had made to like it seemed to her intolerable, and she felt a longing to get back quickly into the fresh air, to Russia, to Ergushovo, where, as she knew from letters, her sister Dolly had already gone with her children.
和平得以实现。但随着她父亲的到来，她所生活的整个世界对于基蒂来说都发生了变化。她并没有放弃她所学到的一切，但她意识到自己欺骗了自己，以为自己可以成为自己想成为的人。她的眼睛似乎睁开了；她感到很难保持自己不虚伪和自负，登上她希望登上的顶峰。此外，她开始意识到她所生活的这个充满悲伤、生病和垂死的人的世界是多么悲惨。她为喜欢它而付出的努力在她看来似乎无法忍受，她渴望尽快回到空气新鲜的地方，回到俄罗斯，回到埃尔古绍沃，正如她从信件中得知的那样，她的妹妹多莉已经带着孩子们去了那里。

But her affection for Varenka did not wane. As she said good-bye, Kitty begged her to come to them in Russia.
但她对瓦伦卡的感情并没有减弱。当她告别时，基蒂恳求她去俄罗斯找他们。

‘I’ll come when you get married,’ said Varenka.
“你结婚时我会来，”瓦伦卡说。

‘I shall never marry.’
“我永远不会结婚。”

‘Well, then, I shall never come.’
“那么，我永远不会来了。”

‘Well, then, I shall be married simply for that. Mind now, remember your promise,’ said Kitty.
‘那么，我就为了这个而结婚。现在请注意，记住你的承诺，”基蒂说。

The doctor’s prediction was fulfilled. Kitty returned home to Russia cured. She was not so gay and thoughtless as before, but she was serene. Her Moscow troubles had become a memory to her.
医生的预言应验了。基蒂痊愈回到俄罗斯家乡。她不再像以前那样开朗、轻率，但她很平静。莫斯科的麻烦已经成为她的记忆。

PART THREE
第三部分

Chapter 1
第1章

Sergey Ivanovitch Koznishev wanted a rest from mental work, and instead of going abroad as he usually did, he came towards the end of May to stay in the country with his brother. In his judgment the best sort of life was a country life. He had come now to enjoy such a life at his brother’s. Konstantin Levin was very glad to have him, especially as he did not expect his brother Nikolay that summer. But in spite of his affection and respect for Sergey Ivanovitch, Konstantin Levin was uncomfortable with his brother in the country. It made him uncomfortable, and it positively annoyed him to see his brother’s attitude to the country. To Konstantin Levin the country was the background of life, that is of pleasures, endeavors, labor. To Sergey Ivanovitch the country meant on one hand rest from work, on the other a valuable antidote to the corrupt influences of town, which he took with satisfaction and a sense of its utility. To Konstantin Levin the country was good first because it afforded a field for labor, of the usefulness of which there could be no doubt. To Sergey Ivanovitch the country was particularly good, because there it was possible and fitting to do nothing. Moreover, Sergey Ivanovitch’s attitude to the peasants rather piqued Konstantin. Sergey Ivanovitch used to say that he knew and liked the peasantry, and he often talked to the peasants, which he knew how to do without affectation or condescension, and from every such conversation he would deduce general conclusions in favor of the peasantry and in confirmation of his knowing them. Konstantin Levin did not like such an attitude to the peasants. To Konstantin the peasant was simply the chief partner in their common labor, and in spite of all the respect and the love, almost like that of kinship, he had for the peasant— sucked in probably, as he said himself, with the milk of his peasant nurse—still as a fellow-worker with him, while sometimes enthusiastic over the vigor, gentleness, and justice of these men, he was very often, when their common labors called for other qualities, exasperated with the peasant for his carelessness, lack of method, drunkenness, and lying. If he had been asked whether he liked or didn’t like the peasants, Konstantin Levin would have been absolutely at a loss what to reply. He liked and did not like the peasants, just as he liked and did not like men in general. Of course, being a good-hearted man, he liked men rather than he disliked them, and so too with the peasants. But like or dislike ‘the people’ as something apart he could not, not only because he lived with ‘the people,’ and all his interests were bound up with theirs, but also because he regarded himself as a part of ‘the people,’ did not see any special qualities or failings distinguishing himself and ‘the people,’ and could not contrast himself with them. Moreover, although he had lived so long in the closest relations with the peasants, as farmer and arbitrator, and what was more, as adviser (the peasants trusted him, and for thirty miles round they would come to ask his advice), he had no definite views of ‘the people,’ and would have been as much at a loss to answer the question whether he knew ‘the people’ as the question whether he liked them. For him to say he knew the peasantry would have been the same as to say he knew men. He was continually watching and getting to know people of all sorts, and among them peasants, whom he regarded as good and interesting people, and he was continually observing new points in them, altering his former views of them and forming new ones. With Sergey Ivanovitch it was quite the contrary. Just as he liked and praised a country life in comparison with the life he did not like, so too he liked the peasantry in contradistinction to the class of men he did not like, and so too he knew the peasantry as something distinct from and opposed to men generally. In his methodical brain there were distinctly formulated certain aspects of peasant life, deduced partly from that life itself, but chiefly from contrast with other modes of life. He never changed his opinion of the peasantry and his sympathetic attitude towards them.
谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇·科兹尼舍夫（Sergey Ivanovitch Koznishev）想从脑力工作中得到休息，所以他没有像往常一样出国，而是在五月底来到该国与他的兄弟一起居住。在他看来，最好的生活就是乡村生活。他现在来到他哥哥那里享受这样的生活。康斯坦丁·莱文（Konstantin Levin）非常高兴能拥有他，尤其是他没想到那个夏天会有他的兄弟尼古拉（Nikolay）。尽管康斯坦丁·莱文对谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇充满感情和尊重，但他对自己在乡下的兄弟感到不舒服。这让他感到不舒服，而且看到他哥哥对国家的态度也让他非常恼火。对康斯坦丁·莱文来说，乡村是生活的背景，是快乐、努力和劳动的背景。对于谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇来说，乡村一方面意味着工作的休息，另一方面是城市腐败影响的宝贵解毒剂，他满意地接受了它，并感受到了它的实用性。对康斯坦丁·莱文来说，这个国家首先是好的，因为它提供了一个劳动场所，其用处是毫无疑问的。对于谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇来说，这个国家特别好，因为在那里什么都不做是可能的，也是合适的。此外，谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇对农民的态度也激怒了康斯坦丁。谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇曾经说过，他了解并喜欢农民，他经常与农民交谈，他知道如何在不做作或居高临下的情况下进行交谈，并且从每次这样的谈话中，他都会得出有利于农民的一般结论，并证实他了解他们。康斯坦丁·莱文不喜欢对农民的这种态度。 对康斯坦丁来说，农民只是他们共同劳动的主要伙伴，尽管他对农民充满了尊重和爱戴，几乎就像亲属关系一样——正如他自己所说，可能是吸吮了农民的牛奶。他的农民护士——仍然是他的同事，虽然有时对这些人的活力、温柔和正义充满热情，但当他们的共同劳动需要其他品质时，他常常对农民的粗心大意感到愤怒，缺乏方法、酗酒、撒谎。如果有人问他是否喜欢农民，康斯坦丁·莱文绝对不知如何回答。他喜欢和不喜欢农民，就像他喜欢和不喜欢一般男人一样。当然，作为一个好心人，他喜欢人而不是讨厌人，对农民也是如此。但他却不能把“人民”当作独立的东西来喜欢或不喜欢，不仅因为他与“人民”生活在一起，他的一切利益都与人民的利益息息相关，而且还因为他把自己视为“人民”的一部分，他没有看到自己与“人民”有任何区别的特殊品质或缺点，也无法将自己与他们进行对比。此外，虽然他作为农民和仲裁者，更重要的是作为顾问（农民信任他，方圆三十英里的范围内都会来征求他的意见），与农民保持着最密切的关系，但他他对“人民”没有明确的看法，他既无法回答他是否了解“人民”的问题，也无法回答他是否喜欢他们的问题。对他来说，说他了解农民就等于说他了解人。 他不断地观察和认识各种各样的人，其中包括农民，他认为他们是善良而有趣的人，他不断地观察他们的新观点，改变他以前对他们的看法并形成新的观点。谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇的情况则恰恰相反。正如他喜欢并赞扬乡村生活与他不喜欢的生活相比，他也喜欢农民与他不喜欢的阶级相对，同样他也知道农民是不同于并反对的东西。一般对男性来说。在他有条不紊的大脑中，清楚地表述了农民生活的某些方面，这些方面部分是从生活本身推论出来的，但主要是从与其他生活方式的对比中推论出来的。他对农民的看法和对农民的同情态度始终没有改变。

In the discussions that arose between the brothers on their views of the peasantry, Sergey Ivanovitch always got the better of his brother, precisely because Sergey Ivanovitch had definite ideas about the peasant—his character, his qualities, and his tastes. Konstantin Levin had no definite and unalterable idea on the subject, and so in their arguments Konstantin was readily convicted of contradicting himself.
在兄弟俩讨论对农民的看法时，谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇总是占上风，因为谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇对农民有明确的看法——他的性格、他的品质和他的品味。康斯坦丁·莱文在这个问题上没有明确的、不可改变的想法，因此在他们的论点中，康斯坦丁很容易被判自相矛盾。

In Sergey Ivanovitch’s eyes his younger brother was a capital fellow, with his heart in the right place (as he expressed it in French), but with a mind which, though fairly quick, was too much influenced by the impressions of the moment, and consequently filled with contradictions. With all the condescension of an elder brother he sometimes explained to him the true import of things, but he derived little satisfaction from arguing with him because he got the better of him too easily.
在谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇眼中，他的弟弟是一个资本家，他的心在正确的地方（正如他用法语表达的那样），但他的头脑虽然相当敏捷，但太容易受到当时印象的影响，并且从而充满了矛盾。有时，他会以一位大哥的居高临下的态度向他解释事物的真正重要性，但与他争论却得不到什么满足，因为他太容易胜过他了。

Konstantin Levin regarded his brother as a man of immense intellect and culture, as generous in the highest sense of the word, and possessed of a special faculty for working for the public good. But in the depths of his heart, the older he became, and the more intimately he knew his brother, the more and more frequently the thought struck him that this faculty of working for the public good, of which he felt himself utterly devoid, was possibly not so much a quality as a lack of something —not a lack of good, honest, noble desires and tastes, but a lack of vital force, of what is called heart, of that impulse which drives a man to choose someone out of the innumerable paths of life, and to care only for that one. The better he knew his brother, the more he noticed that Sergey Ivanovitch, and many other people who worked for the public welfare, were not led by an impulse of the heart to care for the public good, but reasoned from intellectual considerations that it was a right thing to take interest in public affairs, and consequently took interest in them. Levin was confirmed in this generalization by observing that his brother did not take questions affecting the public welfare or the question of the immortality of the soul a bit more to heart than he did chess problems, or the ingenious construction of a new machine.
康斯坦丁·莱文认为他的兄弟是一个具有巨大智慧和文化的人，在最高意义上是慷慨的，并且拥有为公共利益而工作的特殊能力。但在他内心深处，随着年龄的增长，对弟弟的了解越深入，他就越频繁地想到，这种为公共利益而努力的能力，而他觉得自己完全缺乏这种能力。也许与其说是一种品质，不如说是缺乏某种东西——不是缺乏良好、诚实、高尚的欲望和品味，而是缺乏生命力，缺乏所谓的心灵，缺乏驱使一个人从他人中选择某人的冲动。生命的道路有无数条，而只关心那一条。他越了解他的兄弟，就越注意到谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇和许多其他为公共福利工作的人并不是出于关心公共利益的内心冲动，而是出于理智的考虑而得出的结论：对公共事务感兴趣是正确的事情，并且因此对它们感兴趣。莱文通过观察他的兄弟并没有像对待国际象棋问题或新机器的巧妙构造那样更加关注影响公共福利或灵魂不朽的问题，证实了这一概括。

Besides this, Konstantin Levin was not at his ease with his brother, because in summer in the country Levin was continually busy with work on the land, and the long summer day was not long enough for him to get through all he had to do, while Sergey Ivanovitch was taking a holiday. But though he was taking a holiday now, that is to say, he was doing no writing, he was so used to intellectual activity that he liked to put into concise and eloquent shape the ideas that occurred to him, and liked to have someone to listen to him. His most usual and natural listener was his brother. And so in spite of the friendliness and directness of their relations, Konstantin felt an awkwardness in leaving him alone. Sergey Ivanovitch liked to stretch himself on the grass in the sun, and to lie so, basking and chatting lazily.
除此之外，康斯坦丁·莱文和他的兄弟在一起并不轻松，因为在乡下的夏天，莱文一直忙于土地上的工作，而漫长的夏日时间不足以让他完成所有他必须做的事情，当时谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇正在度假。不过，尽管他现在正在休假，也就是说，他没有写作，但他已经习惯了智力活动，所以他喜欢将他想到的想法简洁而雄辩地表达出来，并喜欢有人来表达。听他的。他最常见、最自然的倾听者是他的兄弟。因此，尽管他们的关系友好而直接，康斯坦丁却对让他独自一人感到尴尬。谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇喜欢在阳光下躺在草地上，懒洋洋地晒着太阳，闲聊。

‘You wouldn’t believe,’ he would say to his brother, ‘what a pleasure this rural laziness is to me. Not an idea in one’s brain, as empty as a drum!’
“你不会相信，”他会对他的兄弟说，“这种乡村的懒惰对我来说是多么快乐。”脑子里一点想法都没有，空如鼓！”

But Konstantin Levin found it dull sitting and listening to him, especially when he knew that while he was away they would be carting dung onto the fields not ploughed ready for it, and heaping it all up anyhow; and would not screw the shares in the ploughs, but would let them come off and then say that the new ploughs were a silly invention, and there was nothing like the old Andreevna plough, and so on.
但康斯坦丁·莱文觉得坐着听他说话很无聊，尤其是当他知道他不在的时候，他们会把粪便运到没有犁过的田地里，然后把它们堆起来；他不会把犁铧拧在犁上，而是让它们脱落，然后说新犁是一个愚蠢的发明，没有什么比旧的安德烈耶夫娜犁更好的了，等等。

‘Come, you’ve done enough trudging about in the heat,’ Sergey Ivanovitch would say to him.
“来吧，你在炎热的天气里跋涉已经够多了，”谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇会对他说。

‘No, I must just run round to the counting-house for a minute,’ Levin would answer, and he would run off to the fields.
“不，我必须跑到账房去一会儿，”莱文回答道，然后他就会跑到田里去。

Chapter 2
第2章

Early in June it happened that Agafea Mihalovna, the old nurse and housekeeper, in carrying to the cellar a jar of mushrooms she had just pickled, slipped, fell, and sprained her wrist. The district doctor, a talkative young medical student, who had just finished his studies, came to see her. He examined the wrist, said it was not broken, was delighted at a chance of talking to the celebrated Sergey Ivanovitch Koznishev, and to show his advanced views of things told him all the scandal of the district, complaining of the poor state into which the district council had fallen. Sergey Ivanovitch listened attentively, asked him questions, and, roused by a new listener, he talked fluently, uttered a few keen and weighty observations, respectfully appreciated by the young doctor, and was soon in that eager frame of mind his brother knew so well, which always, with him, followed a brilliant and eager conversation. After the departure of the doctor, he wanted to go with a fishing rod to the river. Sergey Ivanovitch was fond of angling, and was, it seemed, proud of being able to care for such a stupid occupation.
六月初，老护士兼女管家阿加菲亚·米哈伊洛夫娜（Agafea Mihalovna）在把一罐刚腌制的蘑菇搬到地窖时，滑倒了，扭伤了手腕。区医生是一位健谈的年轻医科学生，刚完成学业，来看望她。他检查了手腕，说它没有折断，很高兴有机会与著名的谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇·科兹尼舍夫交谈，并向他展示了他对事物的先进看法，告诉他该地区的所有丑闻，抱怨该地区的贫困状况。区议会垮台了。谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇聚精会神地听着，问了他一些问题，在一位新听众的激励下，他流利地说话，发表了一些敏锐而有分量的评论，受到这位年轻医生的恭敬赞赏，很快就陷入了他哥哥所熟悉的那种热切的心态。 ，与他总是伴随着一场精彩而热切的谈话。医生走后，他想拿着钓鱼竿去河边。谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇喜欢钓鱼，并且似乎为能够从事如此愚蠢的职业而感到自豪。

Konstantin Levin, whose presence was needed in the plough land and meadows, had come to take his brother in the trap.
康斯坦丁·莱文在耕地和草地上需要他的存在，他来是为了把他的兄弟带入陷阱。

It was that time of the year, the turning-point of summer, when the crops of the present year are a certainty, when one begins to think of the sowing for next year, and the mowing is at hand; when the rye is all in ear, though its ears are still light, not yet full, and it waves in gray-green billows in the wind; when the green oats, with tufts of yellow grass scattered here and there among it, droop irregularly over the late-sown fields; when the early buckwheat is already out and hiding the ground; when the fallow lands, trodden hard as stone by the cattle, are half ploughed over, with paths left untouched by the plough; when from the dry dung-heaps carted onto the fields there comes at sunset a smell of manure mixed with meadow-sweet, and on the low-lying lands the riverside meadows are a thick sea of grass waiting for the mowing, with blackened heaps of the stalks of sorrel among it.
正是一年中的这个时候，夏季的转折点，今年的庄稼收成已定，人们开始考虑明年的播种，割草也即将到来。当黑麦全部抽穗时，虽然它的穗子还很轻，但还没有饱满，在风中摇曳着灰绿色的波涛；当绿色的燕麦和一丛丛黄草散落在其中时，不规则地垂落在晚播的田野上；当早熟的荞麦已经长出来并藏在地里的时候；当休耕地被牛群踩得像石头一样坚硬时，犁过一半，而犁耕的道路却没有被犁过；日落时分，干粪堆被运到田里时，一股粪肥和草甸的气味混合在一起，河边的低洼地上是一片茂密的草海，等待着割草，黑黑的草堆堆在河边草甸上。其中有酢浆草的茎。

It was the time when there comes a brief pause in the toil of the fields before the beginning of the labors of harvest—every year recurring, every year straining every nerve of the peasants. The crop was a splendid one, and bright, hot summer days had set in with short, dewy nights.
正是在收获劳动开始之前，田地里的劳作会有短暂的停顿的时候——年复一年，年复一年，让农民的每一根神经都紧张起来。农作物丰收，明亮炎热的夏季来临，夜晚短暂而露水。

The brothers had to drive through the woods to reach the meadows. Sergey Ivanovitch was all the while admiring the beauty of the woods, which were a tangled mass of leaves, pointing out to his brother now an old lime tree on the point of flowering, dark on the shady side, and brightly spotted with yellow stipules, now the young shoots of this year’s saplings brilliant with emerald. Konstantin Levin did not like talking and hearing about the beauty of nature. Words for him took away the beauty of what he saw. He assented to what his brother said, but he could not help beginning to think of other things. When they came out of the woods, all his attention was engrossed by the view of the fallow land on the upland, in parts yellow with grass, in parts trampled and checkered with furrows, in parts dotted with ridges of dung, and in parts even ploughed. A string of carts was moving across it. Levin counted the carts, and was pleased that all that were wanted had been brought, and at the sight of the meadows his thoughts passed to the mowing. He always felt something special moving him to the quick at the hay-making. On reaching the meadow Levin stopped the horse.
兄弟俩必须开车穿过树林才能到达草地。谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇一直在欣赏树林的美丽，树林里有一堆纠缠的叶子，他向他的兄弟指出一棵即将开花的老椴树，阴暗的一面呈黑色，有明亮的黄色托叶斑点，现在，今年的树苗嫩芽翠绿欲滴。康斯坦丁·莱文不喜欢谈论和听到自然之美。对他来说，言语夺走了他所看到的美丽。他同意哥哥的话，但又忍不住开始想别的事情。当他们走出树林时，他全神贯注于高地的休耕地，有的地方长满青草，有的地方被践踏，有的沟壑纵横，有的地方布满粪土，有的地方还犁过的。一串手推车正在上面行驶。莱文数了数车子，很高兴所有想要的东西都已经运来了，一看到草地，他的思绪就转到了割草上。他总是感觉到有什么特别的东西让他在干草时迅速行动起来。到达草地后，莱文停住了马。

The morning dew was still lying on the thick undergrowth of the grass, and that he might not get his feet wet, Sergey Ivanovitch asked his brother to drive him in the trap up to the willow tree from which the carp was caught. Sorry as Konstantin Levin was to crush down his mowing grass, he drove him into the meadow. The high grass softly turned about the wheels and the horse’s legs, leaving its seeds clinging to the wet axles and spokes of the wheels. His brother seated himself under a bush, arranging his tackle, while Levin led the horse away, fastened him up, and walked into the vast gray-green sea of grass unstirred by the wind. The silky grass with its ripe seeds came almost to his waist in the dampest spots.
草丛里浓密的草丛上还沾着清晨的露珠，为了不让他的脚沾湿，谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇让他的兄弟把他装进陷阱，赶到那棵钓鲤鱼的柳树上。抱歉，康斯坦丁·莱文要压碎他正在割草的草，他把他赶到了草地上。高高的草丛轻轻地围绕着车轮和马腿转动，留下的种子粘在潮湿的车轴和车轮辐条上。他的兄弟坐在灌木丛下，整理着他的装备，而莱文牵着马走，拴好，走进了无风的灰绿色草海。在最潮湿的地方，丝滑的草和成熟的种子几乎长到了他的腰部。

Crossing the meadow, Konstantin Levin came out onto the road, and met an old man with a swollen eye, carrying a skep on his shoulder.
穿过草地，康斯坦丁·莱文来到路上，遇到了一位眼睛肿胀、肩上扛着一把小刀的老人。

‘What? taken a stray swarm, Fomitch?’ he asked.
'什么？ “福米奇，被一群迷失的人抓走了吗？”他问道。

‘No, indeed, Konstantin Dmitrich! All we can do to keep our own! This is the second swarm that has flown away.... Luckily the lads caught them. They were ploughing your field. They unyoked the horses and galloped after them.’
“不，确实如此，康斯坦丁·德米特里希！我们能做的就是保住我们自己！这是第二群飞走了……幸运的是，小伙子们抓住了它们。他们正在耕种你的田地。他们解开马匹，疾驰追赶。

‘Well, what do you say, Fomitch—start mowing or wait a bit?’
“好吧，你觉得怎么样，福米奇——开始割草还是稍等一下？”

‘Eh, well. Our way’s to wait till St. Peter’s Day. But you always mow sooner. Well, to be sure, please God, the hay’s good. There’ll be plenty for the beasts.’
‘呃，好吧。我们的办法是等到圣彼得节。但你总是会早点割草。好吧，当然，上帝保佑，干草很好。会有足够的东西供野兽使用。

‘What do you think about the weather?’
“你觉得天气怎么样？”

‘That’s in God’s hands. Maybe it will be fine.’
‘那是在上帝的手中。也许会好起来的。

Levin went up to his brother.
列文走到他哥哥跟前。

Sergey Ivanovitch had caught nothing, but he was not bored, and seemed in the most cheerful frame of mind. Levin saw that, stimulated by his conversation with the doctor, he wanted to talk. Levin, on the other hand, would have liked to get home as soon as possible to give orders about getting together the mowers for next day, and to set at rest his doubts about the mowing, which greatly absorbed him.
谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇什么也没抓到，但他并不感到无聊，而且看上去心情非常愉快。莱文看出，他受到与医生谈话的刺激，想要说话。另一方面，莱文则希望尽快回家，下达第二天将割草机集合起来的命令，并消除他对割草的疑虑，这让他全神贯注。

‘Well, let’s be going,’ he said.
“好吧，我们走吧，”他说。

‘Why be in such a hurry? Let’s stay a little. But how wet you are! Even though one catches nothing, it’s nice. That’s the best thing about every part of sport, that one has to do with nature. How exquisite this steely water is!’ said Sergey Ivanovitch. ‘These riverside banks always remind me of the riddle—do you know it? ‘The grass says to the water: we quiver and we quiver.’’
‘何必这么着急呢？让我们停留一会儿。但你有多湿啊！虽然什么也没抓到，但也挺好的。这是体育运动每一部分最好的一点，那就是与自然有关。这钢铁般的水多么美妙啊！”谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇说道。 “这些河岸总是让我想起这个谜语——你知道吗？ “草对水说：我们颤抖，我们颤抖。”

‘I don’t know the riddle,’ answered Levin wearily.
“我不知道这个谜语。”莱文疲倦地回答。

Chapter 3
第3章

‘Do you know, I’ve been thinking about you,’ said Sergey Ivanovitch. ‘It’s beyond everything what’s being done in the district, according to what this doctor tells me. He’s a very intelligent fellow. And as I’ve told you before, I tell you again: it’s not right for you not to go to the meetings, and altogether to keep out of the district business. If decent people won’t go into it, of course it’s bound to go all wrong. We pay the money, and it all goes in salaries, and there are no schools, nor district nurses, nor midwives, nor drugstores— nothing.’
“你知道吗，我一直在想你，”谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇说。 “据这位医生告诉我，这超出了该地区正在做的一切。”他是一个非常聪明的人。我以前已经告诉过你们了，我再告诉你们：你们不去聚会，完全不插手区里的事，是不对的。如果正派的人不去参与，当然就一定会出问题。我们付钱，这一切都以工资的形式进行，没有学校，没有地区护士，没有助产士，也没有药店——什么都没有。

‘Well, I did try, you know,’ Levin said slowly and unwillingly. ‘I can’t! and so there’s no help for it.’
“好吧，我确实尝试过，你知道，”莱文缓慢而不情愿地说。 ‘我不能！所以没有任何帮助。

‘But why can’t you? I must own I can’t make it out. Indifference, incapacity—I won’t admit; surely it’s not simply laziness?’
‘但是你为什么不能呢？我必须承认我无法做到这一点。冷漠、无能——我不承认；这肯定不只是懒惰吗？

‘None of those things. I’ve tried, and I see I can do nothing,’ said Levin.
“那些都不是。”我已经尝试过，但我发现我无能为力，”莱文说。

He had hardly grasped what his brother was saying. Looking towards the plough land across the river, he made out something black, but he could not distinguish whether it was a horse or the bailiff on horseback.
他几乎没听懂他哥哥在说什么。他向河对岸的耕地看去，看见了一个黑色的东西，却分不清那是一匹马，还是马背上的法警。

‘Why is it you can do nothing? You made an attempt and didn’t succeed, as you think, and you give in. How can you have so little self-respect?’
‘为什么你却无能为力？你尝试过，但没有成功，正如你所想的那样，你就屈服了。你怎么能这么没有自尊呢？

‘Self-respect!’ said Levin, stung to the quick by his brother’s words; ‘I don’t understand. If they’d told me at college that other people understood the integral calculus, and I didn’t, then pride would have come in. But in this case one wants first to be convinced that one has certain qualifications for this sort of business, and especially that all this business is of great importance.’
“自尊心！”列文说，他哥哥的话刺痛了他的心。 '我不明白。如果他们在大学时告诉我，其他人都了解积分，而我却不懂，那么我就会感到自豪。但在这种情况下，人们首先要确信自己具有从事此类业务的某些资格，尤其是所有这些业务都非常重要。”

‘What! do you mean to say it’s not of importance?’ said Sergey Ivanovitch, stung to the quick too at his brother’s considering anything of no importance that interested him, and still more at his obviously paying little attention to what he was saying.
'什么！ “你的意思是说这不重要吗？”谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇问道，他的哥哥考虑到任何他感兴趣的无关紧要的事情，而且更明显的是他显然对自己所说的话毫不在意，这也让他感到很刺痛。

‘I don’t think it important; it does not take hold of me, I can’t help it,’ answered Levin, making out that what he saw was the bailiff, and that the bailiff seemed to be letting the peasants go off the ploughed land. They were turning the plough over. ‘Can they have finished ploughing?’ he wondered.
“我认为这并不重要； “它无法控制我，我无能为力。”莱文回答道，他看出他看到的是法警，而法警似乎正在让农民离开耕地。他们正在把犁翻过来。 “他们能犁完田吗？”他想知道。

‘Come, really though,’ said the elder brother, with a frown on his handsome, clever face, ‘there’s a limit to everything. It’s very well to be original and genuine, and to dislike everything conventional—I know all about that; but really, what you’re saying either has no meaning, or it has a very wrong meaning. How can you think it a matter of no importance whether the peasant, whom you love as you assert...’
“好吧，说实话，”哥哥英俊聪明的脸上皱着眉头说道，“凡事都有个限度。”保持原创性和真诚，并且不喜欢一切传统的东西是很好的——这一点我都知道；但我知道。但实际上，你所说的要么没有意义，要么意义非常错误。你怎么能认为你所爱的那个农民是否无关紧要呢……”

‘I never did assert it,’ thought Konstantin Levin.
“我从来没有断言过，”康斯坦丁·莱文想。

‘...dies without help? The ignorant peasant-women starve the children, and the people stagnate in darkness, and are helpless in the hands of every village clerk, while you have at your disposal a means of helping them, and don’t help them because to your mind it’s of no importance.’
‘……没有帮助就死了？无知的农妇让孩子们挨饿，人民在黑暗中停滞不前，在每个村官的手里都束手无策，而你有办法帮助他们，却不帮助他们，因为你认为这是不重要。

And Sergey Ivanovitch put before him the alternative: either you are so undeveloped that you can’t see all that you can do, or you won’t sacrifice your ease, your vanity, or whatever it is, to do it.
谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇向他提出了另一种选择：要么你太不发达，看不到你能做的一切，要么你不会牺牲你的安逸、你的虚荣心或其他什么来去做这件事。

Konstantin Levin felt that there was no course open to him but to submit, or to confess to a lack of zeal for the public good. And this mortified him and hurt his feelings.
康斯坦丁·莱文觉得，除了屈服或承认对公共利益缺乏热情之外，他别无选择。这让他感到羞愧并伤害了他的感情。

‘It’s both,’ he said resolutely: ‘I don’t see that it was possible...’
“两者都是，”他坚决地说，“我不认为这是可能的……”

‘What! was it impossible, if the money were properly laid out, to provide medical aid?’
'什么！如果资金分配得当，是否不可能提供医疗援助？

‘Impossible, as it seems to me.... For the three thousand square miles of our district, what with our thaws, and the storms, and the work in the fields, I don’t see how it is possible to provide medical aid all over. And besides, I don’t believe in medicine.’
“在我看来，不可能……对于我们地区三千平方英里的地区，由于解冻、暴风雨和田间工作，我不认为如何能够提供医疗服务。”援助遍地。而且，我不相信医学。

‘Oh, well, that’s unfair...I can quote to you thousands of instances.... But the schools, anyway.’
“哦，好吧，这不公平……我可以向你引用数千个例子……但无论如何，学校。”

‘Why have schools?’
“为什么要有学校？”

‘What do you mean? Can there be two opinions of the advantage of education? If it’s a good thing for you, it’s a good thing for everyone.’
'你是什么意思？对于教育的优势能有两种看法吗？如果这对你来说是件好事，那么对每个人来说也是件好事。”

Konstantin Levin felt himself morally pinned against a wall, and so he got hot, and unconsciously blurted out the chief cause of his indifference to public business.
康斯坦丁·莱文感到自己在道德上被逼到了墙角，于是他火冒三丈，不自觉地脱口说出了他对公共事务漠不关心的主要原因。

‘Perhaps it may all be very good; but why should I worry myself about establishing dispensaries which I shall never make use of, and schools to which I shall never send my children, to which even the peasants don’t want to send their children, and to which I’ve no very firm faith that they ought to send them?’ said he.
‘也许一切都很好；但是我为什么要担心建立我永远不会使用的药房和我永远不会送孩子去的学校，甚至农民也不想送他们的孩子去那里，我也没有太多的钱去那里。 “坚信他们应该派他们来吗？”他说。

Sergey Ivanovitch was for a minute surprised at this unexpected view of the subject; but he promptly made a new plan of attack. He was silent for a little, drew out a hook, threw it in again, and turned to his brother smiling.
谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇对这个话题的这种出乎意料的看法感到惊讶了一分钟。但他很快制定了新的进攻计划。他沉默了一会儿，抽出了一个钩子，又扔了进去，然后转向他的兄弟微笑着。

‘Come, now.... In the first place, the dispensary is needed. We ourselves sent for the district doctor for Agafea Mihalovna.’
‘来吧，现在……首先，需要药房。我们亲自为阿加菲亚·米哈伊洛夫娜请了地区医生。

‘Oh, well, but I fancy her wrist will never be straight again.’
“哦，好吧，但我想她的手腕再也不会伸直了。”

‘That remains to be proved.... Next, the peasant who can read and write is as a workman of more use and value to you.’
“这还有待证明……接下来，会读写的农民对你来说是更有用和更有价值的工人。”

‘No, you can ask anyone you like,’ Konstantin Levin answered with decision, ‘the man that can read and write is much inferior as a workman. And mending the highroads is an impossibility; and as soon as they put up bridges they’re stolen.’
“不，你可以问任何你喜欢的人，”康斯坦丁·莱文斩钉截铁地回答，“会读写的人比工人低劣得多。”修复高速公路是不可能的；一旦他们架起桥梁，他们就会被偷走。

‘Still, that’s not the point,’ said Sergey Ivanovitch, frowning. He disliked contradiction, and still more, arguments that were continually skipping from one thing to another, introducing new and disconnected points, so that there was no knowing to which to reply. ‘Do you admit that education is a benefit for the people?’
“不过，这不是重点，”谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇皱着眉头说道。他不喜欢矛盾，更不喜欢不断地从一件事跳到另一件事的争论，引入新的、不连贯的观点，以至于不知道该回答哪一个。 “你承认教育是造福人民的吗？”

‘Yes, I admit it,’ said Levin without thinking, and he was conscious immediately that he had said what he did not think. He felt that if he admitted that, it would be proved that he had been talking meaningless rubbish. How it would be proved he could not tell, but he knew that this would inevitably be logically proved to him, and he awaited the proofs.
“是的，我承认。”莱文不假思索地说，他立刻意识到自己说出了自己没想到的话。他觉得，如果他承认了，就证明他一直在说毫无意义的废话。如何证明他不知道，但他知道这必然会在逻辑上向他证明，他等待着证明。

The argument turned out to be far simpler than he had expected.
事实证明，这场争论比他想象的要简单得多。

‘If you admit that it is a benefit,’ said Sergey Ivanovitch, ‘then, as an honest man, you cannot help caring about it and sympathizing with the movement, and so wishing to work for it.’
“如果你承认这是一种好处，”谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇说，“那么，作为一个诚实的人，你就会情不自禁地关心它、同情这场运动，并愿意为此而努力。”

‘But I still do not admit this movement to be just,’ said Konstantin Levin, reddening a little.
“但我仍然不承认这场运动是正义的，”康斯坦丁·莱文脸红了一点说道。

‘What! But you said just now...’
'什么！但你刚才说……”

‘That’s to say, I don’t admit it’s being either good or possible.’
“也就是说，我不承认这是好事，也不承认这是可能的。”

‘That you can’t tell without making the trial.’
“不经过审判你就无法判断。”

‘Well, supposing that’s so,’ said Levin, though he did not suppose so at all, ‘supposing that is so, still I don’t see, all the same, what I’m to worry myself about it for.’
“好吧，就算是这样，”莱文说道，尽管他根本不这么认为，“就算是这样，我还是不明白我有什么好担心的。”

‘How so?’
'为何如此？'

‘No; since we are talking, explain it to me from the philosophical point of view,’ said Levin.
'不;既然我们在说话，那就从哲学的角度给我解释一下吧。”莱文说道。

‘I can’t see where philosophy comes in,’ said Sergey Ivanovitch, in a tone, Levin fancied, as though he did not admit his brother’s right to talk about philosophy. And that irritated Levin.
“我看不出哲学在哪里，”谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇说，他的语气是莱文想象的，好像他不承认他哥哥有权谈论哲学。这激怒了莱文。

‘I’ll tell you, then,’ he said with heat, ‘I imagine the mainspring of all our actions is, after all, self-interest. Now in the local institutions I, as a nobleman, see nothing that could conduce to my prosperity, and the roads are not better and could not be better; my horses carry me well enough over bad ones. Doctors and dispensaries are no use to me. An arbitrator of disputes is no use to me. I never appeal to him, and never shall appeal to him. The schools are no good to me, but positively harmful, as I told you. For me the district institutions simply mean the liability to pay fourpence halfpenny for every three acres, to drive into the town, sleep with bugs, and listen to all sorts of idiocy and loathsomeness, and self-interest offers me no inducement.’
“那我告诉你，”他热情地说，“我想我们所有行为的主要动力毕竟是自利。”现在，在地方机构中，我作为一个贵族，看不到任何有助于我繁荣的东西，道路也好得不能再好了；我的马匹能很好地载着我，胜过坏马。医生和药房对我来说没有用。争端仲裁员对我来说没有用处。我从不向他求助，也永远不会向他求助。正如我告诉过你的，学校对我没有好处，反而有害。对我来说，地区机构仅仅意味着每三英亩土地支付四便士半便士的责任，开车进城，和虫子一起睡觉，听各种各样的白痴和令人厌恶的言论，而私利对我来说没有任何诱因。

‘Excuse me,’ Sergey Ivanovitch interposed with a smile, ‘self-interest did not induce us to work for the emancipation of the serfs, but we did work for it.’
“对不起，”谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇微笑着插话道，“我们并不是出于自身利益而为农奴的解放而努力，但我们确实为此而努力。”

‘No!’ Konstantin Levin broke in with still greater heat; ‘the emancipation of the serfs was a different matter. There self-interest did come in. One longed to throw off that yoke that crushed us, all decent people among us. But to be a town councilor and discuss how many dustmen are needed, and how chimneys shall be constructed in the town in which I don’t live—to serve on a jury and try a peasant who’s stolen a flitch of bacon, and listen for six hours at a stretch to all sorts of jabber from the counsel for the defense and the prosecution, and the president cross-examining my old half-witted Alioshka, ‘Do you admit, prisoner in the dock, the fact of the removal of the bacon?’ ‘Eh?’’
“不！”康斯坦丁·莱文语气更加激烈地插话道。 “农奴的解放则是另一回事。确实存在私利。人们渴望摆脱压迫我们的枷锁，我们当中所有正派的人都被压垮了。但要成为一名镇议员，讨论需要多少清洁工，以及如何在我不住的城镇里建造烟囱——担任陪审团成员，审判一个偷了一块培根的农民，并倾听他的意见。连续六个小时，辩方律师和检方律师喋喋不休，总统盘问我那老糊涂的阿廖什卡，‘你承认吗，被告席上的囚犯，驱逐了培根？” “呃？”

Konstantin Levin had warmed to his subject, and began mimicking the president and the half-witted Alioshka: it seemed to him that it was all to the point.
康斯坦丁·莱文对他的话题产生了兴趣，并开始模仿总统和愚蠢的阿廖什卡：在他看来，这一切都是切中要害的。

But Sergey Ivanovitch shrugged his shoulders.
但谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇耸了耸肩。

‘Well, what do you mean to say, then?’
“那么，你想说什么？”

‘I simply mean to say that those rights that touch me...my interest, I shall always defend to the best of my ability; that when they made raids on us students, and the police read our letters, I was ready to defend those rights to the utmost, to defend my rights to education and freedom. I can understand compulsory military service, which affects my children, my brothers, and myself, I am ready to deliberate on what concerns me; but deliberating on how to spend forty thousand roubles of district council money, or judging the half-witted Alioshka—I don’t understand, and I can’t do it.’
“我只是想说，那些触及我的权利……我的利益，我将永远尽我所能捍卫；当他们袭击我们学生时，当警察读到我们的信时，我准备竭尽全力捍卫这些权利，捍卫我的受教育权和自由权。我能理解义务兵役制，这会影响我的孩子、我的兄弟和我自己，我准备好考虑与我有关的事情；但思考如何花掉区议会的四万卢布的钱，或者评判愚蠢的阿廖什卡——我不明白，我也做不到。

Konstantin Levin spoke as though the floodgates of his speech had burst open. Sergey Ivanovitch smiled.
康斯坦丁·莱文的讲话就像他的演讲的闸门突然打开了一样。谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇笑了。

‘But tomorrow it’ll be your turn to be tried; would it have suited your tastes better to be tried in the old criminal tribunal?’
“但是明天就轮到你受审了；在旧的刑事法庭受审会更适合你的口味吗？

‘I’m not going to be tried. I shan’t murder anybody, and I’ve no need of it. Well, I tell you what,’ he went on, flying off again to a subject quite beside the point, ‘our district self-government and all the rest of it—it’s just like the birch branches we stick in the ground on Trinity Day, for instance, to look like a copse which has grown up of itself in Europe, and I can’t gush over these birch branches and believe in them.’
‘我不会受到审判。我不会谋杀任何人，我也不需要它。好吧，我告诉你什么，”他继续说道，又飞奔到一个完全无关紧要的话题，“我们的地区自治以及所有其他的东西——就像我们在三一日插在地上的桦树枝一样。 ，例如，看起来像欧洲自然生长的灌木丛，我无法滔滔不绝地谈论这些白桦树枝并相信它们。

Sergey Ivanovitch merely shrugged his shoulders, as though to express his wonder how the birch branches had come into their argument at that point, though he did really understand at once what his brother meant.
谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇只是耸了耸肩，似乎想表达他对桦树枝怎么会在此时介入他们的争论感到惊讶，尽管他立刻就明白了他哥哥的意思。

‘Excuse me, but you know one really can’t argue in that way,’ he observed.
“对不起，但你知道人们真的不能以这种方式争论，”他评论道。

But Konstantin Levin wanted to justify himself for the failing, of which he was conscious, of lack of zeal for the public welfare, and he went on.
但康斯坦丁·莱文想为自己的失败辩护，他意识到这一点，即对公共福利缺乏热情，他继续说下去。

‘I imagine,’ he said, ‘that no sort of activity is likely to be lasting if it is not founded on self-interest, that’s a universal principle, a philosophical principle,’ he said, repeating the word ‘philosophical’ with determination, as though wishing to show that he had as much right as any one else to talk of philosophy.
“我想，”他说，“如果不是建立在自身利益的基础上，任何活动都不可能持久，这是一条普遍原则，一条哲学原则，”他坚定地重复着“哲学”这个词。 ，好像希望表明他和其他人一样有权利谈论哲学。

Sergey Ivanovitch smiled. ‘He too has a philosophy of his own at the service of his natural tendencies,’ he thought.
谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇笑了。 “他也有自己的哲学，为他的自然倾向服务，”他想。

‘Come, you’d better let philosophy alone,’ he said. ‘The chief problem of the philosophy of all ages consists just in finding the indispensable connection which exists between individual and social interests. But that’s not to the point; what is to the point is a correction I must make in your comparison. The birches are not simply stuck in, but some are sown and some are planted, and one must deal carefully with them. It’s only those peoples that have an intuitive sense of what’s of importance and significance in their institutions, and know how to value them, that have a future before them—it’s only those peoples that one can truly call historical.’
“来吧，你最好别管哲学，”他说。 “历代哲学的主要问题在于寻找个人利益与社会利益之间存在的不可或缺的联系。但这不是重点；重点是我必须在你的比较中做出修正。桦树不是简单地插进去的，而是有的播种的，有的栽植的，一定要小心对待。只有那些对自己的机构中的重要性和意义有直观认识并知道如何评价它们的民族，他们才有未来——只有这些民族才能真正被称为历史性的。

And Sergey Ivanovitch carried the subject into the regions of philosophical history where Konstantin Levin could not follow him, and showed him all the incorrectness of his view.
谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇将这个主题带入了康斯坦丁·莱文无法追随的哲学史领域，并向他展示了他的观点的全部错误。

‘As for your dislike of it, excuse my saying so, that’s simply our Russian sloth and old serf-owner’s ways, and I’m convinced that in you it’s a temporary error and will pass.’
“至于你不喜欢它，请原谅我这么说，这只是我们俄罗斯树懒和老农奴主的方式，我相信这对你来说只是暂时的错误，会过去的。”

Konstantin was silent. He felt himself vanquished on all sides, but he felt at the same time that what he wanted to say was unintelligible to his brother. Only he could not make up his mind whether it was unintelligible because he was not capable of expressing his meaning clearly, or because his brother would not or could not understand him. But he did not pursue the speculation, and without replying, he fell to musing on a quite different and personal matter.
康斯坦丁沉默了。他感觉自己四面楚歌，但同时又觉得自己想说的话对弟弟来说是听不懂的。只是他无法判断这句话听不懂是因为他没有能力清楚地表达自己的意思，还是因为他的兄弟不会或不能理解他。但他没有追究这个猜测，也没有回答，而是开始思考一件完全不同的个人问题。

Sergey Ivanovitch wound up the last line, untied the horse, and they drove off.
谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇拉紧最后一根绳子，解开马匹，然后他们就出发了。

Chapter 4
第4章

The personal matter that absorbed Levin during his conversation with his brother was this. Once in a previous year he had gone to look at the mowing, and being made very angry by the bailiff he had recourse to his favorite means for regaining his temper,— he took a scythe from a peasant and began mowing.
莱文在与他的兄弟交谈时，最关心的就是这个个人问题。前一年有一次，他去看割草，被法警激怒了，他用了他最喜欢的方法来平复自己的脾气——他从一个农民手中接过一把镰刀，开始割草。

He liked the work so much that he had several times tried his hand at mowing since. He had cut the whole of the meadow in front of his house, and this year ever since the early spring he had cherished a plan for mowing for whole days together with the peasants. Ever since his brother’s arrival, he had been in doubt whether to mow or not. He was loath to leave his brother alone all day long, and he was afraid his brother would laugh at him about it. But as he drove into the meadow, and recalled the sensations of mowing, he came near deciding that he would go mowing. After the irritating discussion with his brother, he pondered over this intention again.
他非常喜欢这项工作，从那以后他曾多次尝试割草。他把家门前的草地都割光了，今年从早春开始，他就盘算着要和农民们一起割草一整天。自从他哥哥到来后，他一直在犹豫是否要割草。他不愿意整天丢下弟弟一个人，他害怕弟弟会因此而笑话他。但当他开车进入草地，回想起割草的感觉时，他几乎决定去割草。与哥哥进行了一番令人恼火的争论后，他再次思考了这个意图。

‘I must have physical exercise, or my temper’ll certainly be ruined,’ he thought, and he determined he would go mowing, however awkward he might feel about it with his brother or the peasants.
“我必须锻炼身体，否则我的脾气肯定会被毁掉。”他想，然后他决定去割草，不管他和他的兄弟或农民在一起会感到多么尴尬。

Towards evening Konstantin Levin went to his counting house, gave directions as to the work to be done, and sent about the village to summon the mowers for the morrow, to cut the hay in Kalinov meadow, the largest and best of his grass lands.
傍晚时分，康斯坦丁·莱文来到他的账房，指示了要做的工作，然后派人去村子里召集明天的割草机，去卡利诺夫草甸割草，那是他最大、最好的草地。

‘And send my scythe, please, to Tit, for him to set it, and bring it round tomorrow. I shall maybe do some mowing myself too,’ he said, trying not to be embarrassed.
“请把我的镰刀寄给蒂特，让他安装，明天再送来。”我也许也会自己割草，”他说道，尽量不感到尴尬。

The bailiff smiled and said: ‘Yes, sir.’
法警微笑着说：“是的，先生。”

At tea the same evening Levin said to his brother:
当天晚上喝茶时，莱文对他的兄弟说：

‘I fancy the fine weather will last. Tomorrow I shall start mowing.’
“我想好天气会持续下去。明天我就开始割草了。”

‘I’m so fond of that form of field labor,’ said Sergey Ivanovitch.
“我非常喜欢这种形式的田野劳动，”谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇说。

‘I’m awfully fond of it. I sometimes mow myself with the peasants, and tomorrow I want to try mowing the whole day.’
‘我非常喜欢它。有时我会和农民一起割草，明天我想尝试一整天割草。

Sergey Ivanovitch lifted his head, and looked with interest at his brother.
谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇抬起头，饶有兴趣地看着他的兄弟。

‘How do you mean? Just like one of the peasants, all day long?’
'你是什么意思？就像一个农民一样，整天这样吗？

‘Yes, it’s very pleasant,’ said Levin.
“是的，这非常令人愉快，”莱文说。

‘It’s splendid as exercise, only you’ll hardly be able to stand it,’ said Sergey Ivanovitch, without a shade of irony.
“作为锻炼来说，这真是太棒了，只是你几乎无法忍受。”谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇毫不讽刺地说。

‘I’ve tried it. It’s hard work at first, but you get into it. I dare say I shall manage to keep it up...’
‘我已经尝试过了。一开始很辛苦，但你就会投入其中。我敢说我会设法坚持下去……”

‘Really! what an idea! But tell me, how do the peasants look at it? I suppose they laugh in their sleeves at their master’s being such a queer fish?’
'真的吗！多好的主意啊！但你告诉我，农民们怎么看？我想他们会暗自嘲笑他们的主人是一条如此奇怪的鱼吧？

‘No, I don’t think so; but it’s so delightful, and at the same time such hard work, that one has no time to think about it.’
“不，我不这么认为；”但它是如此令人愉快，同时又如此辛苦，以至于人们没有时间去想它。”

‘But how will you do about dining with them? To send you a bottle of Lafitte and roast turkey out there would be a little awkward.’
“但是和他们一起吃饭你会怎么样呢？送你一瓶拉菲特和烤火鸡就有点尴尬了。”

‘No, I’ll simply come home at the time of their noonday rest.’
“不，我会在他们中午休息的时候回家。”

Next morning Konstantin Levin got up earlier than usual, but he was detained giving directions on the farm, and when he reached the mowing grass the mowers were already at their second row.
第二天早上，康斯坦丁·莱文比平时起得更早，但他被拘留在农场里指挥，当他到达割草处时，割草机已经在第二排了。

From the uplands he could get a view of the shaded cut part of the meadow below, with its grayish ridges of cut grass, and the black heaps of coats, taken off by the mowers at the place from which they had started cutting.
从高地他可以看到下面草甸被遮荫的割草部分，割草的灰色山脊，以及割草机在开始割草的地方脱下的黑色外套。

Gradually, as he rode towards the meadow, the peasants came into sight, some in coats, some in their shirts mowing, one behind another in a long string, swinging their scythes differently. He counted forty-two of them.
渐渐地，当他骑马向草地走去时，农民们出现在了视野中，有的穿着外套，有的穿着衬衫，一前一后地排成一长串，挥舞着不同的镰刀。他数了数，有四十二个。

They were mowing slowly over the uneven, low-lying parts of the meadow, where there had been an old dam. Levin recognized some of his own men. Here was old Yermil in a very long white smock, bending forward to swing a scythe; there was a young fellow, Vaska, who had been a coachman of Levin’s, taking every row with a wide sweep. Here, too, was Tit, Levin’s preceptor in the art of mowing, a thin little peasant. He was in front of all, and cut his wide row without bending, as though playing with the scythe.
他们正在草地上不平坦、低洼的地方缓慢地割草，那里曾经有一座旧水坝。莱文认出了一些自己的手下。老耶米尔穿着一件很长的白色罩衫，弯着腰挥舞着一把镰刀。有一个年轻人，名叫瓦斯卡，曾是莱文的马车夫，每排都横扫一切。这里还有蒂特，莱文的割草艺术导师，一个瘦弱的小农夫。他走在所有人的前面，毫不弯腰地割着宽排，就像玩镰刀一样。

Levin got off his mare, and fastening her up by the roadside went to meet Tit, who took a second scythe out of a bush and gave it to him.
莱文下了马，把她拴在路边，去见蒂特，蒂特从灌木丛中取出第二把镰刀，递给了他。

‘It’s ready, sir; it’s like a razor, cuts of itself,’ said Tit, taking off his cap with a smile and giving him the scythe.
“已经准备好了，先生；它就像一把剃刀，会自动割伤。”蒂特微笑着摘下帽子，把镰刀递给他。

Levin took the scythe, and began trying it. As they finished their rows, the mowers, hot and good-humored, came out into the road one after another, and, laughing a little, greeted the master. They all stared at him, but no one made any remark, till a tall old man, with a wrinkled, beardless face, wearing a short sheepskin jacket, came out into the road and accosted him.
莱文拿起镰刀，开始尝试。当他们完成了割草工作后，割草工们热情而幽默地陆续来到马路上，笑着向​​主人打招呼。大家都盯着他看，但没有人出声，直到一个穿着短羊皮袄、满脸皱纹、没有胡须、身材高大的老人走到路上，向他搭话。

‘Look’ee now, master, once take hold of the rope there’s no letting it go!’ he said, and Levin heard smothered laughter among the mowers.
“看，主人，一旦抓住绳子，就不会放手！”他说，莱文听到割草机中压抑的笑声。

‘I’ll try not to let it go,’ he said, taking his stand behind Tit, and waiting for the time to begin.
“我会尽力不让事情发生，”他说，站在蒂特身后，等待时间开始。

‘Mind’ee,’ repeated the old man.
“注意，”老人重复道。

Tit made room, and Levin started behind him. The grass was short close to the road, and Levin, who had not done any mowing for a long while, and was disconcerted by the eyes fastened upon him, cut badly for the first moments, though he swung his scythe vigorously. Behind him he heard voices:
蒂特让出了空间，莱文在他身后开始行动。靠近路的草很短，莱文已经很长一段时间没有割草了，他被盯着他的眼睛弄得不知所措，尽管他用力挥舞着镰刀，但刚开始的时候还是割得很厉害。他听到身后有声音：

‘It’s not set right; handle’s too high; see how he has to stoop to it,’ said one.
‘设置不正确；手柄太高；看看他如何不得不屈尊去做，”其中一位说道。

‘Press more on the heel,’ said another.
“多按一下脚跟，”另一个人说。

‘Never mind, he’ll get on all right,’ the old man resumed.
“没关系，他会过得很好的，”老人继续说道。

‘He’s made a start.... You swing it too wide, you’ll tire yourself out.... The master, sure, does his best for himself! But see the grass missed out! For such work us fellows would catch it!’
‘他已经开始了……你把球摆得太宽了，你会累死自己的……当然，主人会尽力而为！但看到草错过了！对于这样的工作，我们这些人会接受的！

The grass became softer, and Levin, listening without answering, followed Tit, trying to do the best he could. They moved a hundred paces. Tit kept moving on, without stopping, not showing the slightest weariness, but Levin was already beginning to be afraid he would not be able to keep it up: he was so tired.
草变得更软了，莱文听着，没有回答，跟着蒂特，尽力做到最好。他们移动了一百步。蒂特继续前行，没有停下来，没有表现出丝毫疲倦，但莱文已经开始担心自己无法坚持下去了：他太累了。

He felt as he swung his scythe that he was at the very end of his strength, and was making up his mind to ask Tit to stop. But at that very moment Tit stopped of his own accord, and stooping down picked up some grass, rubbed his scythe, and began whetting it. Levin straightened himself, and drawing a deep breath looked round. Behind him came a peasant, and he too was evidently tired, for he stopped at once without waiting to mow up to Levin, and began whetting his scythe. Tit sharpened his scythe and Levin’s, and they went on. The next time it was just the same. Tit moved on with sweep after sweep of his scythe, not stopping nor showing signs of weariness. Levin followed him, trying not to get left behind, and he found it harder and harder: the moment came when he felt he had no strength left, but at that very moment Tit stopped and whetted the scythes.
当他挥动镰刀时，他感到自己已经力竭了，并决定让蒂特停下来。但就在这时，蒂特自己停了下来，弯下腰捡起一些草，擦了擦镰刀，开始磨它。莱文直起身子，深吸了一口气，环顾四周。他身后跟着一个农民，显然他也累了，因为他没有等莱文割草，就立刻停下来，开始磨镰刀。蒂特和莱文磨利了镰刀，然后他们继续前行。下次还是一样。蒂特继续挥舞镰刀，没有停下来，也没有表现出疲倦的迹象。莱文跟在他后面，努力不被抛在后面，他发现事情越来越难：当他感到自己没有力气的时候，蒂特停了下来，磨起了镰刀。

So they mowed the first row. And this long row seemed particularly hard work to Levin; but when the end was reached and Tit, shouldering his scythe, began with deliberate stride returning on the tracks left by his heels in the cut grass, and Levin walked back in the same way over the space he had cut, in spite of the sweat that ran in streams over his face and fell in drops down his nose, and drenched his back as though he had been soaked in water, he felt very happy. What delighted him particularly was that now he knew he would be able to hold out.
所以他们割了第一行。对莱文来说，这一长排似乎特别辛苦。但当到达终点时，蒂特扛着镰刀，开始从容地沿着他的脚后跟在割过的草丛中留下的痕迹返回，莱文以同样的方式走回他割过的地方，尽管满头大汗溪水流过他的脸，滴落到他的鼻子里，淋湿了他的后背，就像被水浸湿了一样，他感到非常高兴。让他特别高兴的是，现在他知道自己能够坚持下去。

His pleasure was only disturbed by his row not being well cut. ‘I will swing less with my arm and more with my whole body,’ he thought, comparing Tit’s row, which looked as if it had been cut with a line, with his own unevenly and irregularly lying grass.
他的快乐只是因为他的划船没有剪好而受到干扰。 “我会少用手臂挥动，多用全身挥动，”他一边想，一边将蒂特的划船（看起来像是用线划过的）与他自己那凹凸不平、不规则的草地进行了比较。

The first row, as Levin noticed, Tit had mowed specially quickly, probably wishing to put his master to the test, and the row happened to be a long one. The next rows were easier, but still Levin had to strain every nerve not to drop behind the peasants.
莱文注意到，第一排山雀割草的速度特别快，可能是想考验一下他的主人，而这一排恰好很长。接下来的几排就容易多了，但莱文仍然必须竭尽全力不落后于农民。

He thought of nothing, wished for nothing, but not to be left behind the peasants, and to do his work as well as possible. He heard nothing but the swish of scythes, and saw before him Tit’s upright figure mowing away, the crescent-shaped curve of the cut grass, the grass and flower heads slowly and rhythmically falling before the blade of his scythe, and ahead of him the end of the row, where would come the rest.
他什么也不想，什么也不要，就是不落下农民的后尘，尽力做好自己的工作。除了镰刀的嗖嗖声，他什么也没听见，看见蒂特在他面前直立的身影正在割草，割草的新月形曲线，草和花头慢慢地有节奏地落在他的镰刀刀刃前，在他面前，行的末尾，剩下的会到哪里。

Suddenly, in the midst of his toil, without understanding what it was or whence it came, he felt a pleasant sensation of chill on his hot, moist shoulders. He glanced at the sky in the interval for whetting the scythes. A heavy, lowering storm cloud had blown up, and big raindrops were falling. Some of the peasants went to their coats and put them on; others—just like Levin himself—merely shrugged their shoulders, enjoying the pleasant coolness of it.
突然，在他的劳作中，他不知道那是什么，也不知道它从何而来，他感到灼热潮湿的肩膀上有一股令人愉悦的寒意。在磨镰刀的间隙，他看了一眼天空。一片沉重的、低沉的暴风雨云已经吹起，大颗大颗的雨点落了下来。一些农民去把外套穿上；另一些则穿上了。其他人——就像莱文本人一样——只是耸耸肩，享受着令人愉快的凉爽。

Another row, and yet another row, followed—long rows and short rows, with good grass and with poor grass. Levin lost all sense of time, and could not have told whether it was late or early now. A change began to come over his work, which gave him immense satisfaction. In the midst of his toil there were moments during which he forgot what he was doing, and it came all easy to him, and at those same moments his row was almost as smooth and well cut as Tit’s. But so soon as he recollected what he was doing, and began trying to do better, he was at once conscious of all the difficulty of his task, and the row was badly mown.
接下来又是一排，又是一排——长排和短排，有好草的，也有不好草的。莱文完全失去了时间感，分不清现在是晚了还是早了。他的工作开始发生变化，这给他带来了巨大的满足感。在他辛勤劳作的过程中，有时他会忘记自己在做什么，而这对他来说一切都很容易，在同一时刻，他的划船几乎和蒂特的划船一样光滑、整齐。但当他回想起自己正在做的事情，并开始努力做得更好时，他立刻意识到自己的任务有多困难，而这行割得很严重。

On finishing yet another row he would have gone back to the top of the meadow again to begin the next, but Tit stopped, and going up to the old man said something in a low voice to him. They both looked at the sun. ‘What are they talking about, and why doesn’t he go back?’ thought Levin, not guessing that the peasants had been mowing no less than four hours without stopping, and it was time for their lunch.
当完成另一排时，他本来会再次回到草地顶部开始下一行，但蒂特停了下来，走到老人面前低声对他说了些什么。两人都看着太阳。 “他们在说什么，他为什么不回去？”莱文想道，没想到农民们已经不间断地割草了至少四个小时，现在该吃午饭了。

‘Lunch, sir,’ said the old man.
“吃午饭了，先生。”老人说道。

‘Is it really time? That’s right; lunch, then.’
‘真的到时间了吗？这是正确的;那么吃午饭吧。

Levin gave his scythe to Tit, and together with the peasants, who were crossing the long stretch of mown grass, slightly sprinkled with rain, to get their bread from the heap of coats, he went towards his house. Only then he suddenly awoke to the fact that he had been wrong about the weather and the rain was drenching his hay.
莱文把他的镰刀交给了蒂特，他和那些正在穿过长长的割过的草地、洒着雨水的农民一起，从大衣堆里取面包，向他的家走去。直到这时，他才猛然醒悟，原来自己对天气的判断是错误的，雨水正在淋湿他的干草​​。

‘The hay will be spoiled,’ he said.
“干草会变质的，”他说。

‘Not a bit of it, sir; mow in the rain, and you’ll rake in fine weather!’ said the old man.
“一点也没有，先生；雨中割草，晴天你就能耙草！”老人说道。

Levin untied his horse and rode home to his coffee. Sergey Ivanovitch was only just getting up. When he had drunk his coffee, Levin rode back again to the mowing before Sergey Ivanovitch had had time to dress and come down to the dining room.
莱文解开马匹，骑马回家喝咖啡。谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇才刚刚起床。喝完咖啡后，列文又骑马回到割草场，谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇还没来得及穿好衣服来到餐厅。

Chapter 5
第5章

After lunch Levin was not in the same place in the string of mowers as before, but stood between the old man who had accosted him jocosely, and now invited him to be his neighbor, and a young peasant, who had only been married in the autumn, and who was mowing this summer for the first time.
午饭后，莱文不再像以前那样在割草机中的同一个地方，而是站在一个老人和一个年轻的农民之间，老人曾和他开玩笑，现在邀请他做邻居，而年轻的农民则刚刚结婚。秋天，以及今年夏天第一次割草的人。

The old man, holding himself erect, moved in front, with his feet turned out, taking long, regular strides, and with a precise and regular action which seemed to cost him no more effort than swinging one’s arms in walking, as though it were in play, he laid down the high, even row of grass. It was as though it were not he but the sharp scythe of itself swishing through the juicy grass.
老人挺直身子，走在前面，双脚向外，迈着大步，整齐划一，动作精确而有规律，似乎不比摆臂走路更费力，仿佛在走路。玩耍时，他放下那排又高又平的草。就好像那不是他，而是一把锋利的镰刀在多汁的青草中嗖嗖作响。

Behind Levin came the lad Mishka. His pretty, boyish face, with a twist of fresh grass bound round his hair, was all working with effort; but whenever anyone looked at him he smiled. He would clearly have died sooner than own it was hard work for him.
莱文身后跟着小伙子米什卡。他那张漂亮的孩子气的脸，头发上缠着一缕新鲜的青草，看上去很努力。但每当有人看他时，他都会微笑。显然，他宁愿死也不愿承认这对他来说是艰苦的工作。

Levin kept between them. In the very heat of the day the mowing did not seem such hard work to him. The perspiration with which he was drenched cooled him, while the sun, that burned his back, his head, and his arms, bare to the elbow, gave a vigor and dogged energy to his labor; and more and more often now came those moments of unconsciousness, when it was possible not to think what one was doing. The scythe cut of itself. These were happy moments. Still more delightful were the moments when they reached the stream where the rows ended, and the old man rubbed his scythe with the wet, thick grass, rinsed its blade in the fresh water of the stream, ladled out a little in a tin dipper, and offered Levin a drink.
莱文挡在他们中间。在炎热的天气里，割草对他来说似乎并不那么辛苦。汗水湿透了他，使他感到凉爽，而阳光灼烧着他的背部、头部和赤裸到肘部的手臂，给他的劳动带来了活力和顽强的能量；现在越来越多地出现无意识的时刻，此时人们可能不去想一个人在做什么。镰刀自己割断了。这些都是快乐的时刻。更令人高兴的是，当他们到达行结束的小溪时，老人用湿漉漉的厚草摩擦他的镰刀，在小溪的淡水中冲洗刀片，用锡勺舀出一点，并请莱文喝了一杯。

‘What do you say to my home-brew, eh? Good, eh?’ said he, winking.
‘你对我的自酿啤酒有什么看法，嗯？很好，嗯？”他眨着眼睛说道。

And truly Levin had never drunk any liquor so good as this warm water with green bits floating in it, and a taste of rust from the tin dipper. And immediately after this came the delicious, slow saunter, with his hand on the scythe, during which he could wipe away the streaming sweat, take deep breaths of air, and look about at the long string of mowers and at what was happening around in the forest and the country.
莱文确实从来没有喝过比这温水更好喝的酒，水里漂浮着绿色的碎片，还有锡勺的铁锈味。紧接着，他手握着镰刀，开始了愉快、缓慢的漫步，在此期间，他可以擦去流淌的汗水，深吸一口气，环顾一长串割草机，看看周围发生的事情。森林和乡村。

The longer Levin mowed, the oftener he felt the moments of unconsciousness in which it seemed not his hands that swung the scythe, but the scythe mowing of itself, a body full of life and consciousness of its own, and as though by magic, without thinking of it, the work turned out regular and well-finished of itself. These were the most blissful moments.
莱文割草的时间越长，他就越常感受到失去知觉的时刻，在这种情况下，挥动镰刀的似乎不是他的手，而是镰刀本身，一个充满生命和自身意识的身体，就像施了魔法一样，没有任何作用。想想看，这项工作自然而然地完成得很顺利。这些是最幸福的时刻。

It was only hard work when he had to break off the motion, which had become unconscious, and to think; when he had to mow round a hillock or a tuft of sorrel. The old man did this easily. When a hillock came he changed his action, and at one time with the heel, and at another with the tip of his scythe, clipped the hillock round both sides with short strokes. And while he did this he kept looking about and watching what came into his view: at one moment he picked a wild berry and ate it or offered it to Levin, then he flung away a twig with the blade of the scythe, then he looked at a quail’s nest, from which the bird flew just under the scythe, or caught a snake that crossed his path, and lifting it on the scythe as though on a fork showed it to Levin and threw it away.
当他不得不停止已经无意识的动作并思考时，这只是一项艰苦的工作。当他必须在一座小山或一丛酢浆草周围割草时。老人轻而易举地做到了这一点。当一座小丘到来时，他改变了动作，一次用脚后跟，另一次用镰刀尖，用短划将小丘的两侧修剪起来。当他这样做的时候，他不停地环顾四周，观察进入他视野的东西：有一刻，他摘了一颗野浆果，吃了它，或者把它送给了莱文，然后他用镰刀的刀片扔开了一根树枝，然后他看着鸟儿从鹌鹑巢中飞过，正好在镰刀下，或者抓住了一条横过它的路的蛇，然后用镰刀举起它，就像用叉子把它展示给莱文然后把它扔掉一样。

For both Levin and the young peasant behind him, such changes of position were difficult. Both of them, repeating over and over again the same strained movement, were in a perfect frenzy of toil, and were incapable of shifting their position and at the same time watching what was before them.
对于莱文和他身后的年轻农民来说，这种立场的转变都很困难。他们两人一遍又一遍地重复着同样的紧张动作，处于一种完美的疯狂劳作之中，无法改变自己的位置，同时观察眼前的一切。

Levin did not notice how time was passing. If he had been asked how long he had been working he would have said half an hour— and it was getting on for dinner time. As they were walking back over the cut grass, the old man called Levin’s attention to the little girls and boys who were coming from different directions, hardly visible through the long grass, and along the road towards the mowers, carrying sacks of bread dragging at their little hands and pitchers of the sour rye-beer, with cloths wrapped round them.
莱文没有注意到时间在流逝。如果有人问他工作了多长时间，他会说半个小时——而且快到晚饭时间了。当他们沿着割完的草往回走时，老人让莱文注意那些小女孩和男孩，他们从不同的方向走来，透过长长的草丛几乎看不到他们，沿着通往割草机的路，拖着一袋袋面包。他们的小手和一罐酸黑麦啤酒，上面裹着布。

‘Look’ee, the little emmets crawling!’ he said, pointing to them, and he shaded his eyes with his hand to look at the sun. They mowed two more rows; the old man stopped.
“看，小艾美特在爬行！”他指着它们说，并用手遮住眼睛看着太阳。他们又割了两行；老人停了下来。

‘Come, master, dinner time!’ he said briskly. And on reaching the stream the mowers moved off across the lines of cut grass towards their pile of coats, where the children who had brought their dinners were sitting waiting for them. The peasants gathered into groups—those further away under a cart, those nearer under a willow bush.
“来吧，主人，晚餐时间到了！”他轻快地说。到达小溪后，割草工们穿过割过的草线，朝他们的外套堆走去，带晚餐的孩子们正坐在那儿等着他们。农民们聚集成群，远的在车下，近的在柳丛下。

Levin sat down by them; he felt disinclined to go away.
列文在他们旁边坐下。他不愿意离开。

All constraint with the master had disappeared long ago. The peasants got ready for dinner. Some washed, the young lads bathed in the stream, others made a place comfortable for a rest, untied their sacks of bread, and uncovered the pitchers of rye-beer. The old man crumbled up some bread in a cup, stirred it with the handle of a spoon, poured water on it from the dipper, broke up some more bread, and having seasoned it with salt, he turned to the east to say his prayer.
所有对主人的束缚早已消失。农民们准备吃饭了。一些人洗了澡，小伙子们在溪水中沐浴，另一些人找了一个舒适的地方休息，解开了面包袋，打开了黑麦啤酒的罐子。老人把一些面包揉碎，放在杯子里，用勺柄搅动，用勺子浇上水，又弄碎一些面包，撒上盐调味，然后转向东方祈祷。 。

‘Come, master, taste my sop,’ said he, kneeling down before the cup.
“来吧，主人，尝尝我的汤吧。”他跪在杯子前说道。

The sop was so good that Levin gave up the idea of going home. He dined with the old man, and talked to him about his family affairs, taking the keenest interest in them, and told him about his own affairs and all the circumstances that could be of interest to the old man. He felt much nearer to him than to his brother, and could not help smiling at the affection he felt for this man. When the old man got up again, said his prayer, and lay down under a bush, putting some grass under his head for a pillow, Levin did the same, and in spite of the clinging flies that were so persistent in the sunshine, and the midges that tickled his hot face and body, he fell asleep at once and only waked when the sun had passed to the other side of the bush and reached him. The old man had been awake a long while, and was sitting up whetting the scythes of the younger lads.
药效太好了，莱文放弃了回家的念头。他和老人一起吃饭，饶有兴趣地和他谈论自己的家事，向他讲述自己的事情以及老人可能感兴趣的一切情况。他感觉自己和他比和他的兄弟更亲近，他对这个男人的感情不禁微笑起来。当老人再次站起来，做了他的祈祷，躺在灌木丛下，在头下放了一些草当枕头时，莱文也做了同样的事，尽管苍蝇在阳光下如此顽固地粘着，蚊子在他滚烫的脸和身体上发痒，他立刻就睡着了，直到太阳穿过灌木丛的另一边并到达他身上时才醒来。老人已经醒了很久，正坐起来给小伙子们磨镰刀。

Levin looked about him and hardly recognized the place, everything was so changed. The immense stretch of meadow had been mown and was sparkling with a peculiar fresh brilliance, with its lines of already sweet-smelling grass in the slanting rays of the evening sun. And the bushes about the river had been cut down, and the river itself, not visible before, now gleaming like steel in its bends, and the moving, ascending, peasants, and the sharp wall of grass of the unmown part of the meadow, and the hawks hovering over the stripped meadow—all was perfectly new. Raising himself, Levin began considering how much had been cut and how much more could still be done that day.
莱文环顾四周，几乎认不出这个地方了，一切都变了。大片草地已经被割过，在夕阳的斜照下，一排排已经散发着芳香的草，闪烁着一种奇特的新鲜光彩。河边的灌木丛被砍倒了，河本身以前看不见，现在在河湾里像钢铁一样闪闪发光，还有移动的、上升的农民，以及草地上未割草部分的尖锐的草墙，鹰在光秃秃的草地上空盘旋——一切都是全新的。莱文站了起来，开始考虑那天已经削减了多少，还有多少工作可以完成。

The work done was exceptionally much for forty-two men. They had cut the whole of the big meadow, which had, in the years of serf labor, taken thirty scythes two days to mow. Only the corners remained to do, where the rows were short. But Levin felt a longing to get as much mowing done that day as possible, and was vexed with the sun sinking so quickly in the sky. He felt no weariness; all he wanted was to get his work done more and more quickly and as much done as possible.
对于四十二个人来说，所做的工作异常艰巨。他们砍伐了整个大草地，在农奴劳动的岁月里，花了三十把镰刀两天才割草。只剩下角落需要处理，那里的行很短。但莱文渴望那天尽可能多地割草，并且对太阳在天空中落得如此之快感到烦恼。他并不感到疲倦；他想要的只是越来越快、尽可能多地完成他的工作。

‘Could you cut Mashkin Upland too?—what do you think?’ he said to the old man.
“你能把马什金高地也砍掉吗？——你觉得怎么样？”他对老人说。

‘As God wills, the sun’s not high. A little vodka for the lads?’
“正如上帝所愿，太阳并不高。给小伙子们喝点伏特加吗？

At the afternoon rest, when they were sitting down again, and those who smoked had lighted their pipes, the old man told the men that ‘Mashkin Upland’s to be cut—there’ll be some vodka.’
下午休息时，当他们再次坐下来时，那些抽烟的人都点燃了烟斗，老人告诉他们“马什金高地要砍伐了——会有一些伏特加。”

‘Why not cut it? Come on, Tit! We’ll look sharp! We can eat at night. Come on!’ cried voices, and eating up their bread, the mowers went back to work.
‘为什么不剪掉它？来吧，蒂特！我们会看起来很敏锐！晚上我们可以吃饭。来吧！”人们喊道，割草机吃完面包，又开始工作了。

‘Come, lads, keep it up!’ said Tit, and ran on ahead almost at a trot.
“来吧，小伙子们，坚持下去！”蒂特说着，几乎小跑着向前跑去。

‘Get along, get along!’ said the old man, hurrying after him and easily overtaking him, ‘I’ll mow you down, look out!’
“走吧，走吧！”老者连忙追了上去，轻而易举地追上了他，“我要砍倒你了，小心！”

And young and old mowed away, as though they were racing with one another. But however fast they worked, they did not spoil the grass, and the rows were laid just as neatly and exactly. The little piece left uncut in the corner was mown in five minutes. The last of the mowers were just ending their rows while the foremost snatched up their coats onto their shoulders, and crossed the road towards Mashkin Upland.
年轻人和老年人都割草离开，仿佛他们在互相赛跑。但无论他们工作得多么快，他们都没有破坏草地，而且一排排的草也铺得整齐而准确。角落里未切割的一小块在五分钟内就被割掉了。最后一批割草机刚刚结束割草工作，最前面的割草机把外套披在肩上，穿过马路朝马什金高地走去。

The sun was already sinking into the trees when they went with their jingling dippers into the wooded ravine of Mashkin Upland. The grass was up to their waists in the middle of the hollow, soft, tender, and feathery, spotted here and there among the trees with wild heart’s-ease.
当他们拿着叮当作响的北斗进入马什金高地树木繁茂的峡谷时，太阳已经落入树林中。空地中央的草长到了他们的腰部，柔软、嫩嫩、像羽毛一样，在树林中随处可见，令人心旷神怡。

After a brief consultation—whether to take the rows lengthwise or diagonally—Prohor Yermilin, also a renowned mower, a huge, black-haired peasant, went on ahead. He went up to the top, turned back again and started mowing, and they all proceeded to form in line behind him, going downhill through the hollow and uphill right up to the edge of the forest. The sun sank behind the forest. The dew was falling by now; the mowers were in the sun only on the hillside, but below, where a mist was rising, and on the opposite side, they mowed into the fresh, dewy shade. The work went rapidly. The grass cut with a juicy sound, and was at once laid in high, fragrant rows. The mowers from all sides, brought closer together in the short row, kept urging one another on to the sound of jingling dippers and clanging scythes, and the hiss of the whetstones sharpening them, and good-humored shouts.
经过简短的协商——是纵向排还是对角排——普罗霍尔·耶尔米林（Prohor Yermilin），也是一位著名的割草工，一个身材高大、黑发的农民，继续走在前面。他爬上山顶，又转回来开始割草，他们都在他身后排成一排，下坡穿过洼地，上坡一直到森林边缘。太阳落到了森林后面。露水已经落下；割草机只在山坡上沐浴在阳光下，但在山坡下，薄雾正在升腾，而在另一边，割草机则在清新、露水的树荫下割草。工作进行得很快。草被割断时发出多汁的声音，立刻排成高高的、芬芳的行。来自四面八方的割草机，在短短的一排中靠得很近，不断地互相催促，伴随着叮当作响的铲子和铿锵有力的镰刀的声音，还有磨刀石磨刀的嘶嘶声和幽默的叫喊声。

Levin still kept between the young peasant and the old man. The old man, who had put on his short sheepskin jacket, was just as good-humored, jocose, and free in his movements. Among the trees they were continually cutting with their scythes the so-called ‘birch mushrooms,’ swollen fat in the succulent grass. But the old man bent down every time he came across a mushroom, picked it up and put it in his bosom. ‘Another present for my old woman,’ he said as he did so.
莱文仍然夹在年轻农民和老人之间。老人穿着羊皮短袄，心情也很好，动作也很轻松。他们不断地用镰刀在树木中砍伐所谓的“桦木蘑菇”，即多汁的草丛中肿胀的脂肪。但老人每次遇到蘑菇都会弯下腰，捡起来放进怀里。 “这是给我老太婆的另一件礼物，”他边说边说。

Easy as it was to mow the wet, soft grass, it was hard work going up and down the steep sides of the ravine. But this did not trouble the old man. Swinging his scythe just as ever, and moving his feet in their big, plaited shoes with firm, little steps, he climbed slowly up the steep place, and though his breeches hanging out below his smock, and his whole frame trembled with effort, he did not miss one blade of grass or one mushroom on his way, and kept making jokes with the peasants and Levin. Levin walked after him and often thought he must fall, as he climbed with a scythe up a steep cliff where it would have been hard work to clamber without anything. But he climbed up and did what he had to do. He felt as though some external force were moving him.
虽然割草又湿又软的草很容易，但在峡谷陡峭的两侧上下爬行却是一项艰苦的工作。但这并没有让老人烦恼。他一如既往地挥舞着镰刀，迈着坚定的小步，迈着那双大辫子鞋，慢慢地爬上陡峭的地方，虽然他的马裤挂在罩衫下面，整个人都在用力颤抖，但他还是坚持了下来。一路上不放过一叶草，一朵蘑菇，不断地与农民和莱文开玩笑。莱文跟在他后面走，常常认为他一定会摔倒，因为他拿着镰刀爬上陡峭的悬崖，在没有任何东西的情况下爬上去是很困难的。但他爬了起来，做了他必须做的事。他感觉好像有什么外力在推动他。

Chapter 6
第6章

Mashkin Upland was mown, the last row finished, the peasants had put on their coats and were gaily trudging home. Levin got on his horse and, parting regretfully from the peasants, rode homewards. On the hillside he looked back; he could not see them in the mist that had risen from the valley; he could only hear rough, good-humored voices, laughter, and the sound of clanking scythes.
马什金高地的割草工作完成了，最后一排也完成了，农民们穿上了外套，兴高采烈地踏着回家的路。列文上了马，遗憾地与农民们告别，骑马回家。在山坡上他回头一看；在从山谷升起的雾气中，他看不到他们。他只能听到粗暴而幽默的声音、笑声和镰刀叮当作响的声音。

Sergey Ivanovitch had long ago finished dinner, and was drinking iced lemon and water in his own room, looking through the reviews and papers which he had only just received by post, when Levin rushed into the room, talking merrily, with his wet and matted hair sticking to his forehead, and his back and chest grimed and moist.
谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇早已吃完晚饭，正在自己的房间里喝着冰柠檬和水，翻阅着刚刚寄来的评论和论文，这时列文冲进房间，满身湿漉漉的，满身乱蓬蓬的，兴高采烈地交谈着。头发粘在额头上，背部和胸部又脏又湿。

‘We mowed the whole meadow! Oh, it is nice, delicious! And how have you been getting on?’ said Levin, completely forgetting the disagreeable conversation of the previous day.
“我们把整个草地都割了！哦，真不错，好吃！ “你过得怎么样？”莱文问道，完全忘记了前一天不愉快的谈话。

‘Mercy! what do you look like!’ said Sergey Ivanovitch, for the first moment looking round with some dissatisfaction. ‘And the door, do shut the door!’ he cried. ‘You must have let in a dozen at least.’
'怜悯！ “你看起来像什么！”谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇说道，他第一次有些不满地环顾四周。 “还有门，把门关上！”他喊道。 “你至少放了十几个人进来。”

Sergey Ivanovitch could not endure flies, and in his own room he never opened the window except at night, and carefully kept the door shut.
谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇无法忍受苍蝇，在自己的房间里，除了晚上以外，他从不打开窗户，并小心地把门关着。

‘Not one, on my honor. But if I have, I’ll catch them. You wouldn’t believe what a pleasure it is! How have you spent the day?’
“以我的名誉来说，没有一个。”但如果有的话，我会抓住他们。你不会相信这是多么幸福的事！你这一天过得怎么样？

‘Very well. But have you really been mowing the whole day? I expect you’re as hungry as a wolf. Kouzma has got everything ready for you.’
'很好。但你真的一整天都在割草吗？我想你一定会饿得像狼一样。库兹马已经为你准备好了一切。”

‘No, I don’t feel hungry even. I had something to eat there. But I’ll go and wash.’
“不，我什至不觉得饿。我在那里吃了点东西。但我会去洗漱。

‘Yes, go along, go along, and I’ll come to you directly,’ said Sergey Ivanovitch, shaking his head as he looked at his brother. ‘Go along, make haste,’ he added smiling, and gathering up his books, he prepared to go too. He, too, felt suddenly good-humored and disinclined to leave his brother’s side. ‘But what did you do while it was raining?’
“是的，走吧，走吧，我会直接来找你。”谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇看着他的兄弟，摇着头说道。 “走吧，快点。”他微笑着补充道，然后收起书本，准备也走。他也突然心情好起来，不愿离开哥哥的身边。 “但是下雨的时候你做了什么？”

‘Rain? Why, there was scarcely a drop. I’ll come directly. So you had a nice day too? That’s first-rate.’ And Levin went off to change his clothes.
'雨？哎呀，几乎没有一滴水。我直接来。那么你也度过了愉快的一天吗？那是一流的。”说完莱文就去换衣服了。

Five minutes later the brothers met in the dining room. Although it seemed to Levin that he was not hungry, and he sat down to dinner simply so as not to hurt Kouzma’s feelings, yet when he began to eat the dinner struck him as extraordinarily good. Sergey Ivanovitch watched him with a smile.
五分钟后，兄弟俩在餐厅见面。虽然莱文觉得自己并不饿，而且他坐下来吃晚饭只是为了不伤害库兹马的感情，但当他开始吃晚饭时，他却觉得这顿饭异常美味。谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇微笑着看着他。

‘Oh, by the way, there’s a letter for you,’ said he. ‘Kouzma, bring it down, please. And mind you shut the doors.’
“哦，顺便说一句，有一封信给你，”他说。 ‘库兹马，请把它放下来。请注意你关上门。

The letter was from Oblonsky. Levin read it aloud. Oblonsky wrote to him from Petersburg: ‘I have had a letter from Dolly; she’s at Ergushovo, and everything seems going wrong there. Do ride over and see her, please; help her with advice; you know all about it. She will be so glad to see you. She’s quite alone, poor thing. My mother-in-law and all of them are still abroad.’
这封信是奥布朗斯基寄来的。莱文大声朗读。奥布朗斯基从彼得堡写信给他：“我收到了多莉的一封信；她在埃尔古绍沃，那里似乎一切都不对劲。请骑过去看看她；帮助她提供建议；你知道这一切。她会很高兴见到你。她很孤独，可怜的东西。我的婆婆和他们所有人都还在国外。”

‘That’s capital! I will certainly ride over to her,’ said Levin. ‘Or we’ll go together. She’s such a splendid woman, isn’t she?’
‘这就是资本！我一定会骑马去找她，”莱文说。 ‘要不然我们就一起去吧。她真是一位出色的女人，不是吗？

‘They’re not far from here, then?’
“那么他们离这里不远吧？”

‘Twenty-five miles. Or perhaps it is thirty. But a capital road. Capital, we’ll drive over.’
“二十五英里。或者也许是三十岁。而是一条资本之路。资本，我们开车过去。

‘I shall be delighted,’ said Sergey Ivanovitch, still smiling. The sight of his younger brother’s appearance had immediately put him in a good humor.
“我会很高兴的，”谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇仍然微笑着说道。看到弟弟的样子，他顿时心情大好。

‘Well, you have an appetite!’ he said, looking at his dark-red, sunburnt face and neck bent over the plate.
“好吧，你有胃口了！”他说，看着自己晒黑的深红色脸和俯身在盘子上的脖子。

‘Splendid! You can’t imagine what an effectual remedy it is for every sort of foolishness. I want to enrich medicine with a new word: Arbeitskur.’
'灿烂！你无法想象它对各种愚蠢行为有多么有效的补救措施。我想用一个新词来丰富医学：Arbeitskur。

‘Well, but you don’t need it, I should fancy.’
“好吧，但你不需要它，我应该喜欢。”

‘No, but for all sorts of nervous invalids.’
“不，但适合各种神经质的病人。”

‘Yes, it ought to be tried. I had meant to come to the mowing to look at you, but it was so unbearably hot that I got no further than the forest. I sat there a little, and went on by the forest to the village, met your old nurse, and sounded her as to the peasants’ view of you. As far as I can make out, they don’t approve of this. She said: ‘It’s not a gentleman’s work.’ Altogether, I fancy that in the people’s ideas there are very clear and definite notions of certain, as they call it, ‘gentlemanly’ lines of action. And they don’t sanction the gentry’s moving outside bounds clearly laid down in their ideas.’
‘是的，应该尝试一下。我本想到割草场去看你，但天气太热了，我只能到森林里去。我在那里坐了一会儿，然后穿过森林来到了村庄，遇见了你的老保姆，向她询问了农民对你的看法。据我所知，他们不同意这一点。她说：“这不是绅士的工作。”总而言之，我认为在人们的想法中，有一些非常清晰明确的概念，他们称之为“绅士”行动路线。他们不批准绅士们超出他们的想法中明确规定的范围。

‘Maybe so; but anyway it’s a pleasure such as I have never known in my life. And there’s no harm in it, you know. Is there?’ answered Levin. ‘I can’t help it if they don’t like it. Though I do believe it’s all right. Eh?’
'也许是这样;但无论如何，这是我一生中从未体验过的乐趣。你知道，这没有什么坏处。有吗？”莱文回答。 “如果他们不喜欢，我也无能为力。虽然我相信一切都好。嗯？’

‘Altogether,’ pursued Sergey Ivanovitch, ‘you’re satisfied with your day?’
“总而言之，”谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇继续说道，“你对这一天感到满意吗？”

‘Quite satisfied. We cut the whole meadow. And such a splendid old man I made friends with there! You can’t fancy how delightful he was!’
‘很满意。我们砍掉了整个草地。我在那里交到了一位如此出色的老人！你无法想象他是多么令人愉快！

‘Well, so you’re content with your day. And so am I. First, I solved two chess problems, and one a very pretty one—a pawn opening. I’ll show it you. And then—I thought over our conversation yesterday.’
‘嗯，所以你对今天的生活很满意。我也是。首先，我解决了两个国际象棋问题，其中一个非常漂亮——开兵。我给你看看。然后——我回想起我们昨天的谈话。

‘Eh! our conversation yesterday?’ said Levin, blissfully dropping his eyelids and drawing deep breaths after finishing his dinner, and absolutely incapable of recalling what their conversation yesterday was about.
‘呃！ “我们昨天的谈话？”莱文吃完晚饭后幸福地垂下眼睑，深吸一口气，完全不记得他们昨天的谈话内容了。

‘I think you are partly right. Our difference of opinion amounts to this, that you make the mainspring self-interest, while I suppose that interest in the common weal is bound to exist in every man of a certain degree of advancement. Possibly you are right too, that action founded on material interest would be more desirable. You are altogether, as the French say, too primesautiere a nature; you must have intense, energetic action, or nothing.’
“我认为你说对了一部分。我们的意见分歧在于，你把自利作为主要发条，而我认为，每个取得一定进步的人必然存在对公共福利的兴趣。也许你也是对的，基于物质利益的行动会更可取。正如法国人所说，你的天性太“primesautiere”了。你必须有强烈、充满活力的行动，否则什么也没有。

Levin listened to his brother and did not understand a single word, and did not want to understand. He was only afraid his brother might ask him some question which would make it evident he had not heard.
莱文听着哥哥的话，一个字都听不懂，也不想听懂。他只是担心他的兄弟会问他一些问题，这会表明他没有听到。

‘So that’s what I think it is, my dear boy,’ said Sergey Ivanovitch, touching him on the shoulder.
“我就是这么想的，我亲爱的孩子，”谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇说，拍了拍他的肩膀。

‘Yes, of course. But, do you know? I won’t stand up for my view,’ answered Levin, with a guilty, childlike smile. ‘Whatever was it I was disputing about?’ he wondered. ‘Of course, I’m right, and he’s right, and it’s all first-rate. Only I must go round to the counting house and see to things.’ He got up, stretching and smiling. Sergey Ivanovitch smiled too.
'是的当然。但是，你知道吗？我不会坚持自己的观点。”莱文带着愧疚、孩子气的微笑回答道。 “我到底在争论什么？”他想。 ‘当然，我是对的，他也是对的，这都是一流的。只是我必须去会计室处理一下事情。”他站起来，伸了个懒腰，微笑着。谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇也笑了。

‘If you want to go out, let’s go together,’ he said, disinclined to be parted from his brother, who seemed positively breathing out freshness and energy. ‘Come, we’ll go to the counting house, if you have to go there.’
“如果你想出去，我们就一起去吧。”他舍不得和弟弟分开，弟弟看上去正积极地呼吸着新鲜和活力。 “来吧，如果你必须去的话，我们就去计数室。”

‘Oh, heavens!’ shouted Levin, so loudly that Sergey Ivanovitch was quite frightened.
“噢，天哪！”列文喊道，声音如此之大，以至于谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇都被吓坏了。

‘What, what is the matter?’
“怎么，怎么了？”

‘How’s Agafea Mihalovna’s hand?’ said Levin, slapping himself on the head. ‘I’d positively forgotten her even.’
“阿加菲娅·米哈伊洛夫娜的手怎么样了？”列文拍着自己的头说道。 “我什至已经忘记了她。”

‘It’s much better.’
“好多了。”

‘Well, anyway I’ll run down to her. Before you’ve time to get your hat on, I’ll be back.’
“好吧，无论如何我都会跑去找她。在你有时间戴上帽子之前，我会回来的。

And he ran downstairs, clattering with his heels like a spring-rattle.
他跑下楼，脚后跟像弹簧拨浪鼓一样嘎嘎作响。

Chapter 7
第7章

Stephan Arkadyevitch had gone to Petersburg to perform the most natural and essential official duty—so familiar to everyone in the government service, though incomprehensible to outsiders— that duty, but for which one could hardly be in government service, of reminding the ministry of his existence—and having, for the due performance of this rite, taken all the available cash from home, was gaily and agreeably spending his days at the races and in the summer villas. Meanwhile Dolly and the children had moved into the country, to cut down expenses as much as possible. She had gone to Ergushovo, the estate that had been her dowry, and the one where in spring the forest had been sold. It was nearly forty miles from Levin’s Pokrovskoe. The big, old house at Ergushovo had been pulled down long ago, and the old prince had had the lodge done up and built on to. Twenty years before, when Dolly was a child, the lodge had been roomy and comfortable, though, like all lodges, it stood sideways to the entrance avenue, and faced the south. But by now this lodge was old and dilapidated. When Stepan Arkadyevitch had gone down in the spring to sell the forest, Dolly had begged him to look over the house and order what repairs might be needed. Stepan Arkadyevitch, like all unfaithful husbands indeed, was very solicitous for his wife’s comfort, and he had himself looked over the house, and given instructions about everything that he considered necessary. What he considered necessary was to cover all the furniture with cretonne, to put up curtains, to weed the garden, to make a little bridge on the pond, and to plant flowers. But he forgot many other essential matters, the want of which greatly distressed Darya Alexandrovna later on.
斯蒂芬·阿尔卡季奇去彼得堡履行最自然、最重要的官方职责——政府部门的每个人都熟悉这一职责，尽管外人难以理解——这一职责，但一个人几乎不可能在政府部门工作，提醒政府部门他的职责。为了履行这一仪式，他从家里拿走了所有可用的现金，在赛马场和避暑别墅里快乐而愉快地度过了他的日子。与此同时，多莉和孩子们搬到了乡下，以尽可能减少开支。她去了埃尔古绍沃，那片庄园曾是她的嫁妆，也是春天出售森林的地方。距离莱文的波克罗夫斯科耶有近四十英里。埃尔古绍沃的那座又大又旧的房子很久以前就被拆掉了，老王子把小屋修好了，又在上面盖了房子。二十年前，当多莉还是个孩子的时候，小屋宽敞舒适，不过，像所有小屋一样，它位于入口大道的一侧，面向南方。但此时这间小屋已是破旧不堪。当斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇春天去卖森林时，多莉恳求他检查一下房子，并下令进行可能需要的维修。斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇确实像所有不忠的丈夫一样，非常关心妻子的舒适，他亲自巡视了整个房子，并就他认为必要的一切发出了指示。他认为有必要用印花布覆盖所有家具，挂上窗帘，给花园除草，在池塘上建一座小桥，并种植花卉。但他忘记了许多其他重要的事情，这些事情后来让达里娅·亚历山德罗芙娜非常苦恼。

In spite of Stepan Arkadyevitch’s efforts to be an attentive father and husband, he never could keep in his mind that he had a wife and children. He had bachelor tastes, and it was in accordance with them that he shaped his life. On his return to Moscow he informed his wife with pride that everything was ready, that the house would be a little paradise, and that he advised her most certainly to go. His wife’s staying away in the country was very agreeable to Stepan Arkadyevitch from every point of view: it did the children good, it decreased expenses, and it left him more at liberty. Darya Alexandrovna regarded staying in the country for the summer as essential for the children, especially for the little girl, who had not succeeded in regaining her strength after the scarlatina, and also as a means of escaping the petty humiliations, the little bills owing to the wood-merchant, the fishmonger, the shoemaker, which made her miserable. Besides this, she was pleased to go away to the country because she was dreaming of getting her sister Kitty to stay with her there. Kitty was to be back from abroad in the middle of the summer, and bathing had been prescribed for her. Kitty wrote that no prospect was so alluring as to spend the summer with Dolly at Ergushovo, full of childish associations for both of them.
尽管斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇努力成为一个细心的父亲和丈夫，但他始终无法记住自己有妻子和孩子。他有单身汉的品味，他也根据这些品味塑造了自己的生活。返回莫斯科后，他自豪地告诉妻子，一切都准备好了，房子将成为一个小天堂，他建议她一定要去。从各个角度来看，斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇都非常同意妻子留在乡下：这对孩子们有好处，减少了开支，也让他更加自由。达里娅·亚历山德罗芙娜认为，留在乡下过暑假对孩子们来说至关重要，特别是对小女孩来说，她在猩红热之后还没有成功恢复体力，同时也是逃避小羞辱和小额账单的一种手段。木商、鱼贩、鞋匠，这让她很痛苦。除此之外，她很高兴能去乡下，因为她梦想着让她的妹妹基蒂和她一起住在那里。凯蒂要在盛夏从国外回来，规定要给她洗澡。基蒂写道，没有什么比和多莉在埃尔古绍沃度过夏天更诱人的了，因为他们俩都充满了幼稚的联想。

The first days of her existence in the country were very hard for Dolly. She used to stay in the country as a child, and the impression she had retained of it was that the country was a refuge from all the unpleasantness of the town, that life there, though not luxurious—Dolly could easily make up her mind to that—was cheap and comfortable; that there was plenty of everything, everything was cheap, everything could be got, and children were happy. But now coming to the country as the head of a family, she perceived that it was all utterly unlike what she had fancied.
多莉来到这个国家的第一天过得很艰难。她小时候曾住在乡下，她对乡下的印象是，乡下是远离城镇所有不愉快的避难所，那里的生活虽然并不奢华，但多莉很容易就下定决心要离开这里。那——便宜又舒适；一切都很充足，一切都很便宜，一切都可以得到，孩子们很高兴。但现在作为一家之主来到这个国家，她发现这一切与她想象的完全不同。

The day after their arrival there was a heavy fall of rain, and in the night the water came through in the corridor and in the nursery, so that the beds had to be carried into the drawing room. There was no kitchen maid to be found; of the nine cows, it appeared from the words of the cowherd-woman that some were about to calve, others had just calved, others were old, and others again hard-uddered; there was not butter nor milk enough even for the children. There were no eggs. They could get no fowls; old, purplish, stringy cocks were all they had for roasting and boiling. Impossible to get women to scrub the floors—all were potato-hoeing. Driving was out of the question, because one of the horses was restive, and bolted in the shafts. There was no place where they could bathe; the whole of the river-bank was trampled by the cattle and open to the road; even walks were impossible, for the cattle strayed into the garden through a gap in the hedge, and there was one terrible bull, who bellowed, and therefore might be expected to gore somebody. There were no proper cupboards for their clothes; what cupboards there were either would not close at all, or burst open whenever anyone passed by them. There were no pots and pans; there was no copper in the washhouse, nor even an ironing-board in the maids’ room.
他们到达的第二天下了一场大雨，晚上走廊和育婴室里都进水了，床不得不搬到客厅里。厨房里没有女佣。九头牛，从牛郎的口中看来，有的即将产犊，有的刚刚产犊，有的已经老了，有的又是硬乳。即使是孩子们也没有足够的黄油和牛奶。没有鸡蛋。他们抓不到家禽；他们只用老的、紫色的、多筋的公鸡来烤和煮。不可能让女人们擦地板——所有人都在锄土豆。开车是不可能的，因为其中一匹马很烦躁，在马辕里狂奔。他们没有地方可以洗澡；整个河岸都被牛群践踏，通向道路。甚至连散步也是不可能的，因为牛群从树篱的缝隙误入花园，而且有一头可怕的公牛，它咆哮着，因此可能会刺伤某人。没有合适的橱柜来存放他们的衣服；那里的橱柜要么根本关不上，要么每当有人经过时就会突然打开。没有锅碗瓢盆；洗衣房里没有铜，女仆房里甚至没有熨衣板。

Finding instead of peace and rest all these, from her point of view, fearful calamities, Darya Alexandrovna was at first in despair. She exerted herself to the utmost, felt the hopelessness of the position, and was every instant suppressing the tears that started into her eyes. The bailiff, a retired quartermaster, whom Stepan Arkadyevitch had taken a fancy to and had appointed bailiff on account of his handsome and respectful appearance as a hall-porter, showed no sympathy for Darya Alexandrovna’s woes. He said respectfully, ‘nothing can be done, the peasants are such a wretched lot,’ and did nothing to help her.
达里娅·亚历山德罗芙娜一开始感到绝望，但从她的角度来看，这一切并没有带来平静和休息，而是可怕的灾难。她竭尽全力，感觉到处境的绝望，每时每刻都在压抑着眼中涌出的泪水。执行官是一位退休的军需官，斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇看中了他，并任命他为执行官，因为他是门厅看门人，外表英俊而受人尊敬，但他对达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜的不幸并没有表现出任何同情。他恭敬地说：“没有办法，农民真是可怜啊”，并没有采取任何帮助她的措施。

The position seemed hopeless. But in the Oblonskys’ household, as in all families indeed, there was one inconspicuous but most valuable and useful person, Marya Philimonovna. She soothed her mistress, assured her that everything would come round (it was her expression, and Matvey had borrowed it from her), and without fuss or hurry proceeded to set to work herself. She had immediately made friends with the bailiff’s wife, and on the very first day she drank tea with her and the bailiff under the acacias, and reviewed all the circumstances of the position. Very soon Marya Philimonovna had established her club, so to say, under the acacias, and there it was, in this club, consisting of the bailiff’s wife, the village elder, and the counting house clerk, that the difficulties of existence were gradually smoothed away, and in a week’s time everything actually had come round. The roof was mended, a kitchen maid was found—a crony of the village elder’s—hens were bought, the cows began giving milk, the garden hedge was stopped up with stakes, the carpenter made a mangle, hooks were put in the cupboards, and they ceased to burst open spontaneously, and an ironing-board covered with army cloth was placed across from the arm of a chair to the chest of drawers, and there was a smell of flatirons in the maids’ room.
这个处境似乎毫无希望。但在奥布隆斯基一家中，正如在所有家庭中一样，有一个不起眼但最有价值和最有用的人，玛丽亚·菲利莫诺夫娜。她安抚了女主人，向她保证一切都会好起来的（这是她的表达方式，马特维借用了她的表达方式），然后不慌不忙地开始自己的工作。她立刻就和法警的妻子交上了朋友，第一天就和法警的妻子在槐树下喝茶，回顾了这个职位的一切情况。很快，玛丽亚·菲利蒙诺夫娜就在金合欢树下成立了她的俱乐部，在这个俱乐部里，有法警的妻子、村里的长老和账房职员，生活的困难逐渐得到了缓解。一周后，一切都已经恢复过来。屋顶修好了，找来了厨房女仆——村长的亲信——买了母鸡，奶牛开始产奶，花园树篱用木桩堵住，木匠做了一台轧布机，橱柜里装了钩子，门不再自动爆开，一块铺着军布的烫衣板从椅子扶手到五斗橱对面，女仆房里弥漫着熨斗的味道。

‘Just see, now, and you were quite in despair,’ said Marya Philimonovna, pointing to the ironing-board. They even rigged up a bathing-shed of straw hurdles. Lily began to bathe, and Darya Alexandrovna began to realize, if only in part, her expectations, if not of a peaceful, at least of a comfortable, life in the country. Peaceful with six children Darya Alexandrovna could not be. One would fall ill, another might easily become so, a third would be without something necessary, a fourth would show symptoms of a bad disposition, and so on. Rare indeed were the brief periods of peace. But these cares and anxieties were for Darya Alexandrovna the sole happiness possible. Had it not been for them, she would have been left alone to brood over her husband who did not love her. And besides, hard though it was for the mother to bear the dread of illness, the illnesses themselves, and the grief of seeing signs of evil propensities in her children—the children themselves were even now repaying her in small joys for her sufferings. Those joys were so small that they passed unnoticed, like gold in sand, and at bad moments she could see nothing but the pain, nothing but sand; but there were good moments too when she saw nothing but the joy, nothing but gold.
“看看吧，现在你已经很绝望了，”玛丽亚·菲利蒙诺夫娜指着熨衣板说道。他们甚至用稻草栏架搭建了一个洗澡棚。莉莉开始洗澡，达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜开始实现（即使只是部分实现）她在乡村的生活的期望，即使不是平静的，至少是舒适的。达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜（Darya Alexandrovna）不可能与六个孩子过得平静。一个人会生病，另一个人很容易生病，第三个人会没有必要的东西，第四个人会表现出不良性格的症状，等等。短暂的和平时期确实很少见。但对达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜来说，这些忧虑和焦虑是唯一可能的幸福。如果没有他们，她就只能独自沉思不爱她的丈夫了。此外，虽然母亲很难承受对疾病的恐惧、疾病本身，以及看到孩子们有邪恶倾向的迹象所带来的悲伤，但孩子们现在却在用小小的欢乐来回报她的痛苦。那些快乐是如此之小，以致于它们在不经意间就过去了，就像沙子里的金子一样，在糟糕的时刻，她除了痛苦什么也看不见，除了沙子什么也看不见。但也有美好的时刻，她只看到欢乐，只看到金子。

Now in the solitude of the country, she began to be more and more frequently aware of those joys. Often, looking at them, she would make every possible effort to persuade herself that she was mistaken, that she as a mother was partial to her children. All the same, she could not help saying to herself that she had charming children, all six of them in different ways, but a set of children such as is not often to be met with, and she was happy in them, and proud of them.
现在，在乡下的孤独中，她开始越来越频繁地感受到那些快乐。很多时候，看着他们，她会尽一切努力说服自己，她错了，她作为一个母亲偏爱她的孩子们。尽管如此，她还是情不自禁地对自己说，她有迷人的孩子，六个孩子的性格各不相同，但有这样一群孩子并不常见，她为他们感到高兴，并为他们感到自豪。他们。

Chapter 8
第8章

Towards the end of May, when everything had been more or less satisfactorily arranged, she received her husband’s answer to her complaints of the disorganized state of things in the country. He wrote begging her forgiveness for not having thought of everything before, and promised to come down at the first chance. This chance did not present itself, and till the beginning of June Darya Alexandrovna stayed alone in the country.
五月底，当一切都或多或少地安排得令人满意时，她收到了丈夫对她对国家混乱状况的抱怨的答复。他写信请求她原谅之前没有考虑到所有事情，并答应一有机会就下来。这个机会并没有出现，达里娅·亚历山德罗芙娜一直独自留在乡下，直到六月初。

On the Sunday in St. Peter’s week Darya Alexandrovna drove to mass for all her children to take the sacrament. Darya Alexandrovna in her intimate, philosophical talks with her sister, her mother, and her friends very often astonished them by the freedom of her views in regard to religion. She had a strange religion of transmigration of souls all her own, in which she had firm faith, troubling herself little about the dogmas of the Church. But in her family she was strict in carrying out all that was required by the Church—and not merely in order to set an example, but with all her heart in it. The fact that the children had not been at the sacrament for nearly a year worried her extremely, and with the full approval and sympathy of Marya Philimonovna she decided that this should take place now in the summer.
圣彼得周的周日，达里娅·亚历山德罗芙娜 (Darya Alexandrovna) 开车去参加弥撒，为她所有的孩子们领受圣餐。达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜（Darya Alexandrovna）在与她的姐姐、母亲和朋友进行亲密的哲学谈话时，常常令他们惊讶于她在宗教方面的自由观点。她有一种奇怪的灵魂轮回宗教，她对此有着坚定的信仰，很少为教会的教条而烦恼。但在她的家庭中，她严格执行教会所要求的一切——不仅仅是为了树立榜样，而是全心全意地这样做。孩子们已经快一年没有参加圣餐了，这让她非常担心，在玛丽亚·菲利蒙诺夫娜的完全同意和同情下，她决定在夏天举行圣餐。

For several days before, Darya Alexandrovna was busily deliberating on how to dress all the children. Frocks were made or altered and washed, seams and flounces were let out, buttons were sewn on, and ribbons got ready. One dress, Tanya’s, which the English governess had undertaken, cost Darya Alexandrovna much loss of temper. The English governess in altering it had made the seams in the wrong place, had taken up the sleeves too much, and altogether spoilt the dress. It was so narrow on Tanya’s shoulders that it was quite painful to look at her. But Marya Philimonovna had the happy thought of putting in gussets, and adding a little shoulder-cape. The dress was set right, but there was nearly a quarrel with the English governess. On the morning, however, all was happily arranged, and towards ten o’clock—the time at which they had asked the priest to wait for them for the mass—the children in their new dresses, with beaming faces, stood on the step before the carriage waiting for their mother.
几天前，达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜一直在忙着考虑如何给所有的孩子穿衣服。连衣裙被制作、修改和清洗，接缝和荷叶边被松开，纽扣被缝上，丝带也准备好了。塔尼娅的一件衣服是由英国家庭女教师承办的，这让达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜大发雷霆。英国女家庭教师在修改这件衣服时，把接缝弄错了位置，把袖子卷得太多，完全把这件衣服弄坏了。坦尼娅的肩膀太窄了，看着她很痛苦。但玛丽亚·菲利莫诺夫娜想到了一个愉快的想法，那就是穿上角撑板，并加上一点肩披肩。衣服穿好了，却差点和英国家庭女教师发生争吵。然而到了早上，一切都安排得很愉快，快到十点的时候——也就是他们让神父等他们参加弥撒的时间——孩子们穿着新衣服，满脸笑容地站在台阶上。马车前等待着他们的母亲。

To the carriage, instead of the restive Raven, they had harnessed, thanks to the representations of Marya Philimonovna, the bailiff’s horse, Brownie, and Darya Alexandrovna, delayed by anxiety over her own attire, came out and got in, dressed in a white muslin gown.
多亏了玛丽亚·菲利蒙诺芙娜的代表，他们没有套上那匹不安分的乌鸦，而是套上了法警的马布朗尼和达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜，因为对自己的着装感到焦虑而耽搁了时间，她出来了，上了车，穿着白色的衣服。平纹细布长袍。

Darya Alexandrovna had done her hair, and dressed with care and excitement. In the old days she had dressed for her own sake to look pretty and be admired. Later on, as she got older, dress became more and more distasteful to her. She saw that she was losing her good looks. But now she began to feel pleasure and interest in dress again. Now she did not dress for her own sake, not for the sake of her own beauty, but simply that as the mother of those exquisite creatures she might not spoil the general effect. And looking at herself for the last time in the looking-glass she was satisfied with herself. She looked nice. Not nice as she would have wished to look nice in old days at a ball, but nice for the object which she now had in view.
达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜精心打扮了一番，打扮得既小心又兴奋。以前，她穿衣服是为了自己的缘故，让自己看起来漂亮，让别人欣赏。后来，随着年龄的增长，她对衣服越来越反感。她发现自己的美貌正在消失。但现在她又开始对穿衣感到愉悦和兴趣。现在她穿衣服并不是为了自己，也不是为了自己的美丽，只是为了不让自己作为那些精致生物的母亲而破坏整体效果。最后一次在镜子里看着自己，她对自己很满意。她看起来不错。不像以前她在舞会上希望看起来漂亮那样好，但对于她现在看到的物体来说却很漂亮。

In the church there was no one but the peasants, the servants and their women-folk. But Darya Alexandrovna saw, or fancied she saw, the sensation produced by her children and her. The children were not only beautiful to look at in their smart little dresses, but they were charming in the way they behaved. Aliosha, it is true, did not stand quite correctly; he kept turning round, trying to look at his little jacket from behind; but all the same he was wonderfully sweet. Tanya behaved like a grownup person, and looked after the little ones. And the smallest, Lily, was bewitching in her naive astonishment at everything, and it was difficult not to smile when, after taking the sacrament, she said in English, ‘Please, some more.’
教堂里除了农民、仆人和她们的女人们之外没有人。但达里娅·亚历山德罗芙娜看到了，或者说她自以为看到了她和她的孩子们所产生的轰动。孩子们不仅穿着漂亮的小衣服看起来很漂亮，而且他们的举止也很迷人。确实，阿廖沙的立场不太正确。他不停地转过身来，试图从后面看他的小夹克。但尽管如此，他还是非常可爱。塔尼娅表现得像个大人，照顾小孩子。最小的莉莉对一切都表现出天真的惊讶，令人着迷，当她接受圣餐后，用英语说：“请再多一点。”时，很难不微笑。

On the way home the children felt that something solemn had happened, and were very sedate.
回家的路上，孩子们感觉发生了一件严肃的事情，心情很平静。

Everything went happily at home too; but at lunch Grisha began whistling, and, what was worse, was disobedient to the English governess, and was forbidden to have any tart. Darya Alexandrovna would not have let things go so far on such a day had she been present; but she had to support the English governess’s authority, and she upheld her decision that Grisha should have no tart. This rather spoiled the general good humor. Grisha cried, declaring that Nikolinka had whistled too, and he was not punished, and that he wasn’t crying for the tart—he didn’t care—but at being unjustly treated. This was really too tragic, and Darya Alexandrovna made up her mind to persuade the English governess to forgive Grisha, and she went to speak to her. But on the way, as she passed the drawing room, she beheld a scene, filling her heart with such pleasure that the tears came into her eyes, and she forgave the delinquent herself.
家里也一切顺利。但午餐时格里沙开始吹口哨，更糟糕的是，她不服从英国家庭女教师的指示，并被禁止吃任何馅饼。如果达里娅·亚历山德罗芙娜在场的话，在这样的日子里她不会让事情发展到这一步。但她必须支持英国家庭女教师的权威，她坚持自己的决定，即格里沙不应该吃馅饼。这相当破坏了总体的良好幽默感。格里沙哭了，宣称尼科林卡也吹了口哨，他没有受到惩罚，而且他哭不是为了那个馅饼——他不在乎——而是因为受到了不公正的对待。这实在是太悲惨了，达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜下定决心要说服英国家庭女教师原谅格里沙，并去跟她说话。但在路上，经过客厅时，她看到一幕，心里高兴得热泪盈眶，自己也原谅了这个坏人。

The culprit was sitting at the window in the corner of the drawing room; beside him was standing Tanya with a plate. On the pretext of wanting to give some dinner to her dolls, she had asked the governess’s permission to take her share of tart to the nursery, and had taken it instead to her brother. While still weeping over the injustice of his punishment, he was eating the tart, and kept saying through his sobs, ‘Eat yourself; let’s eat it together...together.’
罪魁祸首坐在客厅角落的窗边；他旁边站着坦尼娅，端着一个盘子。她借口要给洋娃娃吃晚饭，征求了家庭教师的同意，把自己那一份馅饼带到了育儿室，然后拿给了她哥哥。当他还在为自己受到的不公正的惩罚而哭泣时，他一边吃着馅饼，一边抽泣着说：“你自己吃吧；你自己吃吧！”让我们一起……一起吃吧。”

Tanya had at first been under the influence of her pity for Grisha, then of a sense of her noble action, and tears were standing in her eyes too; but she did not refuse, and ate her share.
塔尼娅起初是受到了对格里莎的怜悯的影响，然后又感受到了她的高尚行为，她的眼里也充满了泪水。但她没有拒绝，吃了自己的那一份。

On catching sight of their mother they were dismayed, but, looking into her face, they saw they were not doing wrong. They burst out laughing, and, with their mouths full of tart, they began wiping their smiling lips with their hands, and smearing their radiant faces all over with tears and jam.
当他们看到母亲时，他们感到很沮丧，但是，看着她的脸，他们发现自己没有做错。他们哈哈大笑，嘴里满是酸味，开始用手擦着微笑的嘴唇，把泪水和果酱涂满了他们容光焕发的脸上。

‘Mercy! Your new white frock! Tanya! Grisha!’ said their mother, trying to save the frock, but with tears in her eyes, smiling a blissful, rapturous smile.
'怜悯！你的新白色连衣裙！塔尼娅！格里莎！”他们的母亲说道，试图挽救这件连衣裙，但眼里含着泪水，脸上挂着幸福、欣喜若狂的微笑。

The new frocks were taken off, and orders were given for the little girls to have their blouses put on, and the boys their old jackets, and the wagonette to be harnessed; with Brownie, to the bailiff’s annoyance, again in the shafts, to drive out for mushroom picking and bathing. A roar of delighted shrieks arose in the nursery, and never ceased till they had set off for the bathing-place.
新衣服被脱掉，命令小女孩们穿上衬衫，男孩们穿上旧夹克，马车上套上挽具。和布朗尼一起开车出去采蘑菇和洗澡，这让法警很恼火。育婴室里响起一阵欢快的尖叫声，一直到他们出发去洗澡的地方才停止。

They gathered a whole basketful of mushrooms; even Lily found a birch mushroom. It had always happened before that Miss Hoole found them and pointed them out to her; but this time she found a big one quite of herself, and there was a general scream of delight, ‘Lily has found a mushroom!’
他们采了整整一篮子蘑菇；就连莉莉也发现了白桦茸。以前总是有这样的事，胡尔小姐找到了它们，并把它们指给她看。但这一次她发现了一个很大的蘑菇，大家欢呼雀跃：“莉莉找到了蘑菇！”

Then they reached the river, put the horses under the birch trees, and went to the bathing-place. The coachman, Terenty, fastened the horses, who kept whisking away the flies, to a tree, and, treading down the grass, lay down in the shade of a birch and smoked his shag, while the never-ceasing shrieks of delight of the children floated across to him from the bathing-place.
然后他们到了河边，把马放在白桦树下，然后去了洗澡的地方。车夫特伦蒂把不断赶走苍蝇的马拴在一棵树上，然后踩下草地，躺在白桦树荫下，抽着他的粗毛，而马车里的马儿们则不停地发出喜悦的尖叫声。孩子们从沐浴场飘到他身边。

Though it was hard work to look after all the children and restrain their wild pranks, though it was difficult too to keep in one’s head and not mix up all the stockings, little breeches, and shoes for the different legs, and to undo and to do up again all the tapes and buttons, Darya Alexandrovna, who had always liked bathing herself, and believed it to be very good for the children, enjoyed nothing so much as bathing with all the children. To go over all those fat little legs, pulling on their stockings, to take in her arms and dip those little naked bodies, and to hear their screams of delight and alarm, to see the breathless faces with wide-open, scared, and happy eyes of all her splashing cherubs, was a great pleasure to her.
尽管照顾所有的孩子并抑制他们疯狂的恶作剧是一项艰苦的工作，尽管要牢记在心并且不混淆所有不同腿的长筒袜、小马裤和鞋子，以及解开和穿上也很困难。重新把所有的带子和纽扣都系好，达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜一直喜欢自己洗澡，并相信这对孩子们非常有好处，没有什么比和所有孩子们一起洗澡更开心的了。越过那些胖乎乎的小腿，拉着他们的长袜，拥抱她的手臂，浸入那些赤裸的小身体，听到他们喜悦和惊慌的尖叫声，看到那些气喘吁吁、张开、害怕和快乐的脸。她所有溅起水花的小天使的眼睛，对她来说是一种极大的乐趣。

When half the children had been dressed, some peasant women in holiday dress, out picking herbs, came up to the bathing-shed and stopped shyly. Marya Philimonovna called one of them and handed her a sheet and a shirt that had dropped into the water for her to dry them, and Darya Alexandrovna began to talk to the women. At first they laughed behind their hands and did not understand her questions, but soon they grew bolder and began to talk, winning Darya Alexandrovna’s heart at once by the genuine admiration of the children that they showed.
等一半的孩子都穿好了衣服，一些穿着节日盛装的农妇出去采摘香草，来到洗澡棚前，害羞地停下来。玛丽亚·菲利莫诺夫娜叫来其中一个人，递给她一张掉进水里的床单和一件衬衫，让她擦干，达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜开始和妇女们说话。起初，他们在背后偷笑，听不懂她的问题，但很快他们就变得大胆起来，开始说话，他们表现出的孩子们真诚的钦佩立即赢得了达里娅·亚历山德罗芙娜的心。

‘My, what a beauty! as white as sugar,’ said one, admiring Tanitchka, and shaking her head; ‘but thin...’
‘天哪，多么美丽啊！ “白得像糖一样。”其中一个人一边欣赏塔尼奇卡一边摇头说道。 ‘但是很瘦……’

‘Yes, she has been ill.’
“是的，她病了。”

‘And so they’ve been bathing you too,’ said another to the baby.
“所以他们也给你洗澡了，”另一个人对婴儿说道。

‘No; he’s only three months old,’ answered Darya Alexandrovna with pride.
'不; “他只有三个月大。”达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜自豪地回答道。

‘You don’t say so!’
“你不这么说！”

‘And have you any children?’
“你有孩子吗？”

‘I’ve had four; I’ve two living—a boy and a girl. I weaned her last carnival.’
“我已经有四个了；我有两个孩子——一个男孩和一个女孩。我在最后一次狂欢节上给她断了奶。

‘How old is she?’
'她年纪多大？'

‘Why, two years old.’
“为什么，两岁了。”

‘Why did you nurse her so long?’
“你为什么要照顾她这么久？”

‘It’s our custom; for three fasts...’
“这是我们的习俗；斋戒三顿……”

And the conversation became most interesting to Darya Alexandrovna. What sort of time did she have? What was the matter with the boy? Where was her husband? Did it often happen?
达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜对这次谈话变得最感兴趣。她度过了怎样的时光？那男孩怎么了？她的丈夫在哪里？经常发生吗？

Darya Alexandrovna felt disinclined to leave the peasant women, so interesting to her was their conversation, so completely identical were all their interests. What pleased her most of all was that she saw clearly what all the women admired more than anything was her having so many children, and such fine ones. The peasant women even made Darya Alexandrovna laugh, and offended the English governess, because she was the cause of the laughter she did not understand. One of the younger women kept staring at the Englishwoman, who was dressing after all the rest, and when she put on her third petticoat she could not refrain from the remark, ‘My, she keeps putting on and putting on, and she’ll never have done!’ she said, and they all went off into roars.
达里娅·亚历山德罗芙娜觉得不愿意离开农妇，她们的谈话对她来说很有趣，她们的兴趣也完全相同。最让她高兴的是，她清楚地看到，所有女人最羡慕的，就是她有这么多孩子，而且都是这么优秀的孩子。农妇们甚至逗得达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜发笑，并冒犯了英国家庭女教师，因为她就是她无法理解的笑声的原因。一位年轻的女士一直盯着那位英国女士，她在其他人之后正在穿衣服，当她穿上第三件衬裙时，她忍不住说道：“天哪，她一直在穿啊穿，她会的。”从来没有这样做过！”她说道，然后大家都大声吼叫起来。

Chapter 9
第9章

On the drive home, as Darya Alexandrovna, with all her children round her, their heads still wet from their bath, and a kerchief tied over her own head, was getting near the house, the coachman said, ‘There’s some gentleman coming: the master of Pokrovskoe, I do believe.’
在开车回家的路上，达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜带着她所有的孩子们围着她，他们的头还没有洗完澡，头巾还系在她自己的头上，快要到房子附近时，车夫说：“有一位绅士来了：波克罗夫斯科耶的主人，我相信。

Darya Alexandrovna peeped out in front, and was delighted when she recognized in the gray hat and gray coat the familiar figure of Levin walking to meet them. She was glad to see him at any time, but at this moment she was specially glad he should see her in all her glory. No one was better able to appreciate her grandeur than Levin.
达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜往前张望，当她认出戴着灰色帽子、穿着灰色外套的莱文熟悉的身影正走向他们时，她很高兴。无论什么时候见到他，她都很高兴，但此时此刻，她特别高兴他能看到她的光彩照人。没有人比莱文更能欣赏她的宏伟。

Seeing her, he found himself face to face with one of the pictures of his daydream of family life.
看到她，他发现自己面对面地看到了一张他梦想中的家庭生活的照片。

‘You’re like a hen with your chickens, Darya Alexandrovna.’
“你就像一只母鸡和你的小鸡一样，达里娅·亚历山德罗芙娜。”

‘Ah, how glad I am to see you!’ she said, holding out her hand to him.
“啊，见到你我真高兴！”她向他伸出手说道。

‘Glad to see me, but you didn’t let me know. My brother’s staying with me. I got a note from Stiva that you were here.’
“很高兴见到我，但你没有告诉我。我哥哥和我住在一起。我收到 Stiva 的便条说你在这里。

‘From Stiva?’ Darya Alexandrovna asked with surprise.
“来自斯蒂瓦？”达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜惊讶地问道。

‘Yes; he writes that you are here, and that he thinks you might allow me to be of use to you,’ said Levin, and as he said it he became suddenly embarrassed, and, stopping abruptly, he walked on in silence by the wagonette, snapping off the buds of the lime trees and nibbling them. He was embarrassed through a sense that Darya Alexandrovna would be annoyed by receiving from an outsider help that should by rights have come from her own husband. Darya Alexandrovna certainly did not like this little way of Stepan Arkadyevitch’s of foisting his domestic duties on others. And she was at once aware that Levin was aware of this. It was just for this fineness of perception, for this delicacy, that Darya Alexandrovna liked Levin.
'是的; “他写信说你在这里，他认为你可能会让我对你有用，”列文说，说着他突然感到尴尬，然后突然停了下来，默默地沿着马车走着，折断椴树的芽并啃食它们。他感到尴尬，因为他觉得达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜会因为接受外人的帮助而感到恼火，而这些帮助理应来自她自己的丈夫。达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜当然不喜欢斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇把自己的家务强加给别人的这种小伎俩。她立刻意识到莱文也意识到了这一点。达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜正是因为这种敏锐的洞察力、这种细腻的感情，才喜欢列文。

‘I know, of course,’ said Levin, ‘that that simply means that you would like to see me, and I’m exceedingly glad. Though I can fancy that, used to town housekeeping as you are, you must feel in the wilds here, and if there’s anything wanted, I’m altogether at your disposal.’
“我当然知道，”莱文说，“这只是意味着你想见我，我非常高兴。虽然我可以想象，像你一样习惯了城镇的家务，你一定会感受到这里的荒野，如果有什么需要，我完全可以为你服务。

‘Oh, no!’ said Dolly. ‘At first things were rather uncomfortable, but now we’ve settled everything capitally— thanks to my old nurse,’ she said, indicating Marya Philimonovna, who, seeing that they were speaking of her, smiled brightly and cordially to Levin. She knew him, and knew that he would be a good match for her young lady, and was very keen to see the matter settled.
“哦，不！”多莉说。 “一开始事情很不舒服，但现在我们已经把一切都解决了——多亏了我的老保姆，”她指着玛丽亚·菲利蒙诺夫娜说，玛丽亚·菲利蒙诺夫娜看到他们在谈论她，就对莱文灿烂而亲切地微笑。她认识他，也知道他会和她的小姐很般配，并且非常希望事情能得到解决。

‘Won’t you get in, sir, we’ll make room this side!’ she said to him.
“您不进去吗，先生，我们会在这边腾出空间！”她对他说。

‘No, I’ll walk. Children, who’d like to race the horses with me?’ The children knew Levin very little, and could not remember when they had seen him, but they experienced in regard to him none of that strange feeling of shyness and hostility which children so often experience towards hypocritical, grown-up people, and for which they are so often and miserably punished. Hypocrisy in anything whatever may deceive the cleverest and most penetrating man, but the least wide-awake of children recognizes it, and is revolted by it, however ingeniously it may be disguised. Whatever faults Levin had, there was not a trace of hypocrisy in him, and so the children showed him the same friendliness that they saw in their mother’s face. On his invitation, the two elder ones at once jumped out to him and ran with him as simply as they would have done with their nurse or Miss Hoole or their mother. Lily, too, began begging to go to him, and her mother handed her to him; he sat her on his shoulder and ran along with her.
‘不，我会步行。孩子们，谁愿意和我一起赛马？”孩子们对莱文知之甚少，也不记得何时见过他，但他们对他却没有感受到孩子们所特有的那种奇怪的害羞和敌意的感觉。他们经常面对虚伪的成年人，并因此经常受到悲惨的惩罚。任何事情中的虚伪都可能欺骗最聪明、最有洞察力的人，但最不清醒的孩子也会认识到它，并且会感到厌恶，无论它伪装得多么巧妙。无论莱文有什么缺点，他身上都没有一丝虚伪，因此孩子们对他表现出了他们在母亲脸上看到的同样的友善。在他的邀请下，两个年长的人立刻跳到他身边，和他一起跑，就像他们对待他们的护士或胡尔小姐或他们的母亲一样。莉莉也开始央求他去找他，她的母亲把她交给了他。他让她坐在自己的肩上，跟着她一起跑。

‘Don’t be afraid, don’t be afraid, Darya Alexandrovna!’ he said, smiling good-humoredly to the mother; ‘there’s no chance of my hurting or dropping her.’
“别害怕，别害怕，达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜！”他对母亲友善地微笑着说道。 “我不可能伤害她或让她掉落。”

And, looking at his strong, agile, assiduously careful and needlessly wary movements, the mother felt her mind at rest, and smiled gaily and approvingly as she watched him.
而看着他那有力、敏捷、刻苦小心、毫无必要的警惕的动作，母亲心里踏实了，看着他，露出了愉快而赞许的微笑。

Here, in the country, with children, and with Darya Alexandrovna, with whom he was in sympathy, Levin was in a mood not infrequent with him, of childlike light-heartedness that she particularly liked in him. As he ran with the children, he taught them gymnastic feats, set Miss Hoole laughing with his queer English accent, and talked to Darya Alexandrovna of his pursuits in the country.
在这里，在乡下，带着孩子们，还有他所同情的达里娅·亚历山德罗芙娜，列文对他的心情并不罕见，她特别喜欢他身上那种孩子般的轻松愉快的心情。当他和孩子们一起跑步时，他教他们体操技巧，他奇怪的英国口音让胡尔小姐发笑，并向达里娅·亚历山德罗芙娜讲述了他在乡下的追求。

After dinner, Darya Alexandrovna, sitting alone with him on the balcony, began to speak of Kitty.
晚饭后，达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜和他单独坐在阳台上，开始谈论基蒂。

‘You know, Kitty’s coming here, and is going to spend the summer with me.’
“你知道，基蒂要来这里，并且要和我一起度过夏天。”

‘Really,’ he said, flushing, and at once, to change the conversation, he said: ‘Then I’ll send you two cows, shall I? If you insist on a bill you shall pay me five roubles a month; but it’s really too bad of you.’
“真的，”他脸红了，为了改变话题，他立即说道：“那我送你两头牛，好吗？”如果你坚持要账单，你每月付给我五卢布；但你真的太糟糕了。

‘No, thank you. We can manage very well now.’
'不，谢谢。我们现在可以很好地应对。”

‘Oh, well, then, I’ll have a look at your cows, and if you’ll allow me, I’ll give directions about their food. Everything depends on their food.’
“哦，好吧，那么，我会看看你的奶牛，如果你允许的话，我会指导他们的食物。一切都取决于他们的食物。

And Levin, to turn the conversation, explained to Darya Alexandrovna the theory of cow-keeping, based on the principle that the cow is simply a machine for the transformation of food into milk, and so on.
莱文扭转了话题，向达里娅·亚历山德罗芙娜解释了养牛理论，该理论的基础是牛只是将食物转化为牛奶的机器，等等。

He talked of this, and passionately longed to hear more of Kitty, and, at the same time, was afraid of hearing it. He dreaded the breaking up of the inward peace he had gained with such effort.
他谈到这件事，热切地渴望听到更多关于基蒂的事，同时又害怕听到。他担心自己通过如此努力获得的内心平静会被打破。

‘Yes, but still all this has to be looked after, and who is there to look after it?’ Darya Alexandrovna responded, without interest.
“是的，但是这一切仍然需要照顾，谁来照顾呢？”达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜毫无兴趣地回答。

She had by now got her household matters so satisfactorily arranged, thanks to Marya Philimonovna, that she was disinclined to make any change in them; besides, she had no faith in Levin’s knowledge of farming. General principles, as to the cow being a machine for the production of milk, she looked on with suspicion. It seemed to her that such principles could only be a hindrance in farm management. It all seemed to her a far simpler matter: all that was needed, as Marya Philimonovna had explained, was to give Brindle and Whitebreast more food and drink, and not to let the cook carry all the kitchen slops to the laundry maid’s cow. That was clear. But general propositions as to feeding on meal and on grass were doubtful and obscure. And, what was most important, she wanted to talk about Kitty.
多亏了玛丽亚·菲利蒙诺夫娜，她现在已经把家里的事情安排得如此令人满意，以至于她不愿意做任何改变。此外，她对莱文的农耕知识并不信任。一般来说，对于牛是产奶的机器，她持怀疑态度。在她看来，这样的原则只会成为农场管理的障碍。对她来说，这一切似乎是一件简单得多的事情：正如玛丽亚·菲利蒙诺夫娜所解释的那样，所需要的只是给布林德尔和白胸更多的食物和饮料，而不是让厨师把所有的厨房泔水搬到洗衣女仆的牛身上。这很清楚。但关于以粉和草为食的一般主张是值得怀疑和模糊的。而且，最重要的是，她想谈谈基蒂。

Chapter 10
第10章

‘Kitty writes to me that there’s nothing she longs for so much as quiet and solitude,’ Dolly said after the silence that had followed.
“基蒂写信给我说，她最渴望的就是安静和独处，”多莉在沉默过后说道。

‘And how is she—better?’ Levin asked in agitation.
“她怎么样了？好些了吗？”莱文激动地问道。

‘Thank God, she’s quite well again. I never believed her lungs were affected.’
“感谢上帝，她已经康复了。我从不相信她的肺部受到了影响。

‘Oh, I’m very glad!’ said Levin, and Dolly fancied she saw something touching, helpless, in his face as he said this and looked silently into her face.
“哦，我很高兴！”莱文说，当他说这句话并默默地看着她的脸时，多莉觉得她在他的脸上看到了某种令人感动的、无助的东西。

‘Let me ask you, Konstantin Dmitrievitch,’ said Darya Alexandrovna, smiling her kindly and rather mocking smile, ‘why is it you are angry with Kitty?’
“让我问你，康斯坦丁·德米特里耶维奇，”达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜微笑着说，脸上露出友善而略带嘲讽的微笑，“你为什么对基蒂生气？”

‘I? I’m not angry with her,’ said Levin.
'我？我并不生她的气，”莱文说。

‘Yes, you are angry. Why was it you did not come to see us nor them when you were in Moscow?’
‘是的，你生气了。你在莫斯科的时候为什么没有来看我们，也没有来看他们？

‘Darya Alexandrovna,’ he said, blushing up to the roots of his hair, ‘I wonder really that with your kind heart you don’t feel this. How it is you feel no pity for me, if nothing else, when you know...’
“达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜，”他说，脸红到了发根，“我真的很奇怪，即使你心地善良，你也感受不到这一点。”当你知道……时，你怎么会不怜悯我呢？

‘What do I know?’
'我知道什么？'

‘You know I made an offer and that I was refused,’ said Levin, and all the tenderness he had been feeling for Kitty a minute before was replaced by a feeling of anger for the slight he had suffered.
“你知道我提出了一个要约，但我被拒绝了，”莱文说，一分钟前他对基蒂的所有温柔都被一种因他所遭受的轻视而感到的愤怒所取代。

‘What makes you suppose I know?’
“你凭什么认为我知道？”

‘Because everybody knows it...’
“因为大家都知道……”

‘That’s just where you are mistaken; I did not know it, though I had guessed it was so.’
‘这就是你错的地方；我不知道，虽然我猜到了。”

‘Well, now you know it.’
“好吧，现在你知道了。”

‘All I knew was that something had happened that made her dreadfully miserable, and that she begged me never to speak of it. And if she would not tell me, she would certainly not speak of it to anyone else. But what did pass between you? Tell me.’
“我只知道发生了一些事情，让她非常痛苦，而且她求我永远不要谈论这件事。如果她不告诉我，她肯定不会向其他人谈论这件事。但你们之间到底发生了什么？告诉我。'

‘I have told you.’
'我已经告诉你。'

‘When was it?’
'那是什么时候？'

‘When I was at their house the last time.’
“我上次去他们家的时候。”

‘Do you know that,’ said Darya Alexandrovna, ‘I am awfully, awfully sorry for her. You suffer only from pride....’
“你知道吗，”达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜说，“我对她感到非常非常抱歉。你只会因骄傲而受苦……”

‘Perhaps so,’ said Levin, ‘but...’
“也许是这样，”莱文说，“但是……”

She interrupted him.
她打断了他的话。

‘But she, poor girl...I am awfully, awfully sorry for her. Now I see it all.’
“但是她，可怜的女孩……我非常非常为她感到难过。现在我看到了这一切。

‘Well, Darya Alexandrovna, you must excuse me,’ he said, getting up. ‘Good-bye, Darya Alexandrovna, till we meet again.’
“好吧，达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜，请原谅我，”他站起来说道。 “再见，达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜，直到我们再次见面。”

‘No, wait a minute,’ she said, clutching him by the sleeve. ‘Wait a minute, sit down.’
“不，等一下，”她抓住他的袖子说道。 “等一下，坐下。”

‘Please, please, don’t let us talk of this,’ he said, sitting down, and at the same time feeling rise up and stir within his heart a hope he had believed to be buried.
“求你了，求你了，不要让我们谈论这个，”他坐下来说道，同时他的心中升起了一种他本以为已经被埋葬的希望。

‘If I did not like you,’ she said, and tears came into her eyes; ‘if I did not know you, as I do know you . . .’
“如果我不喜欢你，”她说，眼里涌出了泪水。 ‘如果我不认识你，就像我认识你一样。 。 .’

The feeling that had seemed dead revived more and more, rose up and took possession of Levin’s heart.
那种似乎已经死了的感觉越来越苏醒，升腾起来，占据了莱文的心。

‘Yes, I understand it all now,’ said Darya Alexandrovna. ‘You can’t understand it; for you men, who are free and make your own choice, it’s always clear whom you love. But a girl’s in a position of suspense, with all a woman’s or maiden’s modesty, a girl who sees you men from afar, who takes everything on trust,— a girl may have, and often has, such a feeling that she cannot tell what to say.’
“是的，我现在全明白了，”达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜说。 ‘你无法理解；对于你们这些自由并能做出自己选择的男人来说，你爱谁总是很清楚的。但一个女孩处于一种悬念的境地，带着女人或少女的谦虚，一个从远处看你们男人的女孩，她对一切都信任，——一个女孩可能有，而且经常有，这样一种感觉，她无法说出什么说。

‘Yes, if the heart does not speak...’
“是的，如果心不说话……”

‘No, the heart does speak; but just consider: you men have views about a girl, you come to the house, you make friends, you criticize, you wait to see if you have found what you love, and then, when you are sure you love her, you make an offer....’
‘不，心会说话；但想想看：你们男人对一个女孩有看法，你们来到家里，交朋友，批评，等着看是否找到了自己所爱的人，然后，当您确定自己爱她时，您就做出了决定。一份邀请....'

‘Well, that’s not quite it.’
“嗯，不完全是这样。”

‘Anyway you make an offer, when your love is ripe or when the balance has completely turned between the two you are choosing from. But a girl is not asked. She is expected to make her choice, and yet she cannot choose, she can only answer ‘yes’ or ‘no.’’
“无论如何，当你的爱情成熟时，或者当你所选择的两者之间的平衡完全转变时，你就会提出要约。但没有问女孩。她应该做出选择，但她无法选择，只能回答“是”或“否”。

‘Yes, to choose between me and Vronsky,’ thought Levin, and the dead thing that had come to life within him died again, and only weighed on his heart and set it aching.
“是的，在我和渥伦斯基之间做出选择，”列文想道，他体内复活的死物又死了，只压在他的心上，让他疼痛。

‘Darya Alexandrovna,’ he said, ‘that’s how one chooses a new dress or some purchase or other, not love. The choice has been made, and so much the better.... And there can be no repeating it.’
“达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜，”他说，“这就是人们选择一件新衣服或购买某样东西的方式，而不是爱情。选择已经做出，那就更好了……并且不能再重复了。

‘Ah, pride, pride!’ said Darya Alexandrovna, as though despising him for the baseness of this feeling in comparison with that other feeling which only women know. ‘At the time when you made Kitty an offer she was just in a position in which she could not answer. She was in doubt. Doubt between you and Vronsky. Him she was seeing every day, and you she had not seen for a long while. Supposing she had been older...I, for instance, in her place could have felt no doubt. I always disliked him, and so it has turned out.’
“啊，骄傲，骄傲！”达里娅·亚历山德罗芙娜说道，她似乎在鄙视他，因为与只有女人才知道的另一种感觉相比，这种感觉是多么卑鄙。 “当你向基蒂提出要约时，她正处于无法回答的境地。她很疑惑。你和渥伦斯基之间存在怀疑。他是她每天都见到的人，而你却是很久没见了。假设她年纪大一些……例如，我在她的位置上可能会感到毫无疑问。我一直不喜欢他，结果就是这样。”

Levin recalled Kitty’s answer. She had said: ‘No, that cannot be...’
莱文想起了基蒂的回答。她说：“不，那不可能……”

‘Darya Alexandrovna,’ he said dryly, ‘I appreciate your confidence in me; I believe you are making a mistake. But whether I am right or wrong, that pride you so despise makes any thought of Katerina Alexandrovna out of the question for me,— you understand, utterly out of the question.’
“达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜，”他干巴巴地说，“我很感激你对我的信任；我相信你犯了一个错误。但无论我是对还是错，你如此鄙视的那种骄傲使我不可能想到卡特琳娜·亚历山德罗夫娜——你明白，完全不可能。

‘I will only say one thing more: you know that I am speaking of my sister, whom I love as I love my own children. I don’t say she cared for you, all I meant to say is that her refusal at that moment proves nothing.’
“我只会多说一件事：你知道我说的是我的妹妹，我爱她就像爱我自己的孩子一样。我并不是说她关心你，我只是想说，她那一刻的拒绝并不能证明什么。

‘I don’t know!’ said Levin, jumping up. ‘If you only knew how you are hurting me. It’s just as if a child of yours were dead, and they were to say to you: He would have been like this and like that, and he might have lived, and how happy you would have been in him. But he’s dead, dead, dead!...’
“我不知道！”莱文跳了起来说道。 ‘如果你知道你是如何伤害我就好了。就好像你的孩子死了，他们对你说：他本来可以这样、那样，他也可以活下来，你在他身上会多么幸福。但他已经死了，死了，死了！……”

‘How absurd you are!’ said Darya Alexandrovna, looking with mournful tenderness at Levin’s excitement. ‘Yes, I see it all more and more clearly,’ she went on musingly. ‘So you won’t come to see us, then, when Kitty’s here?’
“你真是太荒唐了！”达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜说道，她带着悲伤的温柔看着列文的激动。 “是的，我看得越来越清楚了，”她若有所思地继续说道。 “那么，基蒂来的时候你就不会来看我们了？”

‘No, I shan’t come. Of course I won’t avoid meeting Katerina Alexandrovna, but as far as I can, I will try to save her the annoyance of my presence.’
‘不，我不会来。当然，我不会避免见到卡特琳娜·亚历山德罗夫娜，但我会尽我所能，尽量避免她因我的存在而感到烦恼。

‘You are very, very absurd,’ repeated Darya Alexandrovna, looking with tenderness into his face. ‘Very well then, let it be as though we had not spoken of this. What have you come for, Tanya?’ she said in French to the little girl who had come in.
“你真是非常非常荒唐。”达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜重复道，温柔地看着他的脸。 “好吧，就当我们没有谈过这件事吧。你来干什么，塔尼娅？”她用法语对进来的小女孩说。

‘Where’s my spade, mamma?’
“妈妈，我的铲子呢？”

‘I speak French, and you must too.’
“我会说法语，你也一定会说。”

The little girl tried to say it in French, but could not remember the French for spade; the mother prompted her, and then told her in French where to look for the spade. And this made a disagreeable impression on Levin.
小女孩试图用法语说出来，但记不起黑桃的法语。母亲提示她，然后用法语告诉她在哪里可以找到铁锹。这给莱文留下了不愉快的印象。

Everything in Darya Alexandrovna’s house and children struck him now as by no means so charming as a little while before. ‘And what does she talk French with the children for?’ he thought; ‘how unnatural and false it is! And the children feel it so: Learning French and unlearning sincerity,’ he thought to himself, unaware that Darya Alexandrovna had thought all that over twenty times already, and yet, even at the cost of some loss of sincerity, believed it necessary to teach her children French in that way.
达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜家里的一切和孩子们现在都让他印象深刻，一点也不像不久前那么迷人了。 “她跟孩子们说法语是为了什么？”他想。 ‘这是多么不自然和虚假啊！孩子们也这么认为：学习法语却失去了真诚，”他心里想，没有意识到达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜已经这样想了二十多次，然而，即使以失去一些真诚为代价，他仍然认为有必要教导她的孩子们就是这样的法国人。

‘But why are you going? Do stay a little.’
‘但是你为什么要去？请留下来一点。

Levin stayed to tea; but his good-humor had vanished, and he felt ill at ease.
莱文留下来喝茶。但他的好心情消失了，他感到不自在。

After tea he went out into the hall to order his horses to be put in, and, when he came back, he found Darya Alexandrovna greatly disturbed, with a troubled face, and tears in her eyes. While Levin had been outside, an incident had occurred which had utterly shattered all the happiness she had been feeling that day, and her pride in her children. Grisha and Tanya had been fighting over a ball. Darya Alexandrovna, hearing a scream in the nursery, ran in and saw a terrible sight. Tanya was pulling Grisha’s hair, while he, with a face hideous with rage, was beating her with his fists wherever he could get at her. Something snapped in Darya Alexandrovna’s heart when she saw this. It was as if darkness had swooped down upon her life; she felt that these children of hers, that she was so proud of, were not merely most ordinary, but positively bad, ill-bred children, with coarse, brutal propensities—wicked children.
喝完茶后，他到大厅去吩咐把马匹放进去，当他回来时，他发现达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜非常不安，脸上满是烦恼，眼里含着泪水。当莱文在外面时，发生了一件事情，彻底粉碎了她那天所感受到的所有幸福，以及她对孩子们的自豪感。格里沙和坦尼娅一直在为一个球打架。达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜听到育婴室里传来尖叫声，跑了进去，看到了可怕的景象。坦尼娅拉着格里莎的头发，而他则一脸愤怒地用拳头殴打她，无论他能打到她什么地方。达里娅·亚历山德罗芙娜看到这一幕，心里猛地一震。黑暗仿佛降临到了她的生活上；她觉得她引以为傲的这些孩子不仅是最普通的孩子，而且绝对是坏孩子，没有教养，有粗俗、残暴的倾向——邪恶的孩子。

She could not talk or think of anything else, and she could not speak to Levin of her misery.
她无法谈论或思考任何其他事情，也无法向莱文诉说她的痛苦。

Levin saw she was unhappy and tried to comfort her, saying that it showed nothing bad, that all children fight; but, even as he said it, he was thinking in his heart: ‘No, I won’t be artificial and talk French with my children; but my children won’t be like that. All one has to do is not spoil children, not to distort their nature, and they’ll be delightful. No, my children won’t be like that.’
莱文看出她不高兴，就试图安慰她，说这没什么不好，所有的孩子都会打架。不过，尽管嘴上这么说，他心里却在想：‘不，我不会矫揉造作地和我的孩子们说法语；但我的孩子不会那样。只要不溺爱孩子，不扭曲他们的天性，他们就会很高兴。不，我的孩子不会那样。

He said good-bye and drove away, and she did not try to keep him.
他道别后开车离开，她也没有挽留他。

Chapter 11
第11章

In the middle of July the elder of the village on Levin’s sister’s estate, about fifteen miles from Pokrovskoe, came to Levin to report on how things were going there and on the hay. The chief source of income on his sister’s estate was from the riverside meadows. In former years the hay had been bought by the peasants for twenty roubles the three acres. When Levin took over the management of the estate, he thought on examining the grasslands that they were worth more, and he fixed the price at twenty-five roubles the three acres. The peasants would not give that price, and, as Levin suspected, kept off other purchasers. Then Levin had driven over himself, and arranged to have the grass cut, partly by hired labor, partly at a payment of a certain proportion of the crop. His own peasants put every hindrance they could in the way of this new arrangement, but it was carried out, and the first year the meadows had yielded a profit almost double. The previous year—which was the third year—the peasants had maintained the same opposition to the arrangement, and the hay had been cut on the same system. This year the peasants were doing all the mowing for a third of the hay crop, and the village elder had come now to announce that the hay had been cut, and that, fearing rain, they had invited the counting-house clerk over, had divided the crop in his presence, and had raked together eleven stacks as the owner’s share. From the vague answers to his question how much hay had been cut on the principal meadow, from the hurry of the village elder who had made the division, not asking leave, from the whole tone of the peasant, Levin perceived that there was something wrong in the division of the hay, and made up his mind to drive over himself to look into the matter.
七月中旬，距离波克罗夫斯科耶约十五英里的莱文姐姐庄园里，村里的长老来到莱文报告那里和干草上的情况。他姐姐庄园的主要收入来源来自河边的草地。往年，农民每三英亩地花二十卢布买干草。当莱文接管庄园的管理权时，他在考察了草原后认为它们更值钱，于是他将价格定为每三英亩二十五卢布。农民们不会给出这个价格，并且正如莱文所怀疑的那样，他们拒绝了其他购买者。然后莱文自己开车过去，安排人去割草，一部分是雇工，一部分是支付一定比例的收成。他自己的农民为这项新安排设置了一切可能的障碍，但它最终得以实施，第一年草地的利润几乎翻了一番。前一年，也就是第三年，农民们同样反对这种安排，干草也按照同样的制度收割。今年，农民们正在割草，割了三分之一的干草，村里的长老来宣布，干草已经割完了，因为担心下雨，他们请了账房职员过来，当着他的面把庄稼分了，并把十一堆收起来，作为主人的一份。从他对主要草地上割了多少干草的问题的含糊回答，从村长的匆忙分工，没有请假，从农民的整个语气，莱文察觉到出了什么问题。在干草的划分中，他决定自己开车过去调查此事。

Arriving for dinner at the village, and leaving his horse at the cottage of an old friend of his, the husband of his brother’s wet-nurse, Levin went to see the old man in his bee-house, wanting to find out from him the truth about the hay. Parmenitch, a talkative, comely old man, gave Levin a very warm welcome, showed him all he was doing, told him everything about his bees and the swarms of that year; but gave vague and unwilling answers to Levin’s inquiries about the mowing. This confirmed Levin still more in his suspicions. He went to the hay fields and examined the stacks. The haystacks could not possibly contain fifty wagon-loads each, and to convict the peasants Levin ordered the wagons that had carried the hay to be brought up directly, to lift one stack, and carry it into the barn. There turned out to be only thirty-two loads in the stack. In spite of the village elder’s assertions about the compressibility of hay, and its having settled down in the stacks, and his swearing that everything had been done in the fear of God, Levin stuck to his point that the hay had been divided without his orders, and that, therefore, he would not accept that hay as fifty loads to a stack. After a prolonged dispute the matter was decided by the peasants taking these eleven stacks, reckoning them as fifty loads each. The arguments and the division of the haycocks lasted the whole afternoon. When the last of the hay had been divided, Levin, intrusting the superintendence of the rest to the counting-house clerk, sat down on a haycock marked off by a stake of willow, and looked admiringly at the meadow swarming with peasants.
到了村里吃晚饭，莱文把他的马留在他的一个老朋友（他兄弟奶妈的丈夫）的小屋里，莱文去他的蜂房里看望老人，想从他那里了解情况。关于干草的真相。帕梅尼奇是一位健谈、英俊的老人，他非常热烈地欢迎了列文，向他展示了自己正在做的一切，告诉了他关于当年的蜜蜂和蜂群的一切。但对于莱文关于割草的询问，他给出了含糊而不愿意的回答。这更加证实了莱文的怀疑。他来到干草田，检查了草堆。每个干草堆不可能容纳五十辆马车的货物，为了给农民定罪，列文命令将运载干草的马车直接拉上来，抬起一堆，然后将其运入谷仓。结果堆里只有三十二个货物。尽管村里的长老断言干草是可压缩的，而且干草已经堆积在一堆，而且他发誓一切都是出于敬畏上帝而做的，但莱文坚持他的观点，即干草是在没有他的命令的情况下被分开的。 ，因此，他不会接受五十担干草。经过长时间的争论，农民们拿走了这十一堆，每堆五十担。争论和干草堆的划分持续了整个下午。当最后一块干草被分配完后，莱文把剩下的干草交给了账房职员，他坐在一根柳树围成的干草堆上，钦佩地看着挤满农民的草地。

In front of him, in the bend of the river beyond the marsh, moved a bright-colored line of peasant women, and the scattered hay was being rapidly formed into gray winding rows over the pale green stubble. After the women came the men with pitchforks, and from the gray rows there were growing up broad, high, soft haycocks. To the left, carts were rumbling over the meadow that had been already cleared, and one after another the haycocks vanished, flung up in huge forkfuls, and in their place there were rising heavy cartloads of fragrant hay hanging over the horses’ hind-quarters.
在他面前，沼泽那边的河湾里，有一队色彩鲜艳的农妇在移动，散落的干草正在淡绿色的茬上迅速形成灰色的蜿蜒行列。女人们之后是拿着干草叉的男人，灰色的行里长出了又宽又高又软的干草堆。左边，马车在已经清理干净的草地上隆隆作响，干草堆一个接一个地消失了，一大堆叉子被抛起来，取而代之的是一车又一车的芳香干草，挂在马的后躯上。 。

‘What weather for haying! What hay it’ll be!’ said an old man, squatting down beside Levin. ‘It’s tea, not hay! It’s like scattering grain to the ducks, the way they pick it up!’ he added, pointing to the growing haycocks. ‘Since dinnertime they’ve carried a good half of it.’
‘什么天气最适合晒干草了！ “那是什么干草啊！”一位老人蹲在莱文身边说道。 “这是茶，不是干草！这就像把谷物撒给鸭子，它们捡起来的方式！”他指着正在生长的干草堆补充道。 “从晚餐时间开始，他们就已经搬走了一半了。”

‘The last load, eh?’ he shouted to a young peasant, who drove by, standing in the front of an empty cart, shaking the cord reins.
“最后一车，嗯？”他对一位年轻的农民喊道，这位年轻的农民开车经过，站在一辆空车前面，摇晃着缰绳。

‘The last, dad!’ the lad shouted back, pulling in the horse, and, smiling, he looked round at a bright, rosy-checked peasant girl who sat in the cart smiling too, and drove on.
“最后一个，爸爸！”小伙子喊道，拉了马，微笑着回头看了一眼坐在车里的一个容光焕发、面色红润的农家姑娘，她也微笑着，然后继续前行。

‘Who’s that? Your son?’ asked Levin.
'那是谁？你的儿子？”莱文问道。

‘My baby,’ said the old man with a tender smile.
“我的宝贝。”老人带着温柔的微笑说道。

‘What a fine fellow!’
“真是个好人啊！”

‘The lad’s all right.’
“这小伙子没事。”

‘Married already?’
“已经结婚了吗？”

‘Yes, it’s two years last St. Philip’s day.’
“是的，这是两年前的圣菲利普节。”

‘Any children?’
“有孩子吗？”

‘Children indeed! Why, for over a year he was innocent as a babe himself, and bashful too,’ answered the old man. ‘Well, the hay! It’s as fragrant as tea!’ he repeated, wishing to change the subject.
‘确实是孩子们！哎呀，一年多了，他自己都像个婴儿一样天真无邪，而且还害羞。”老人回答道。 ‘好吧，干草！就像茶一样香！”他重复道，想改变话题。

Levin looked more attentively at Ivan Parmenov and his wife. They were loading a haycock onto the cart not far from him. Ivan Parmenov was standing on the cart, taking, laying in place, and stamping down the huge bundles of hay, which his pretty young wife deftly handed up to him, at first in armfuls, and then on the pitchfork. The young wife worked easily, merrily, and dexterously. The close-packed hay did not once break away off her fork. First she gathered it together, stuck the fork into it, then with a rapid, supple movement leaned the whole weight of her body on it, and at once with a bend of her back under the red belt she drew herself up, and arching her full bosom under the white smock, with a smart turn swung the fork in her arms, and flung the bundle of hay high onto the cart. Ivan, obviously doing his best to save her every minute of unnecessary labor, made haste, opening his arms to clutch the bundle and lay it in the cart. As she raked together what was left of the hay, the young wife shook off the bits of hay that had fallen on her neck, and straightening the red kerchief that had dropped forward over her white brow, not browned like her face by the sun, she crept under the cart to tie up the load. Ivan directed her how to fasten the cord to the cross-piece, and at something she said he laughed aloud. In the expressions of both faces was to be seen vigorous, young, freshly awakened love.
莱文更加专注地看着伊万·帕尔梅诺夫和他的妻子。他们正在离他不远的地方把一块干草堆到车上。伊万·帕尔门诺夫站在车上，拿起、放好并踩踏大捆的干草，他年轻漂亮的妻子熟练地把这些干草递给他，一开始是抱起来的，后来放在干草叉上。年轻的妻子工作轻松、愉快、灵巧。紧密堆积的干草一次也没有从她的叉子上脱落。首先，她把它收集起来，把叉子插进去，然后迅速而灵活地把整个身体的重量都压在上面，然后她立即在红色腰带下弯起腰，挺直身子，弓起身子。白罩衫下丰满的胸部，灵巧地一转身，挥动了怀里的叉子，把那捆干草高高地扔到了车上。伊万显然在尽最大努力为她节省每一分钟不必要的劳动，他赶紧张开双臂抓住包裹并将其放入推车中。当她把剩下的干草耙到一起时，年轻的妻子抖掉掉在脖子上的干草碎片，拉直了垂在她白色额头上的红头巾，她的额头不像她的脸那样被太阳晒成棕色，她爬到车底下绑好货物。伊万指导她如何将绳子固定在横梁上，听到她说的话，他大声笑了起来。两人脸上的表情都充满了朝气、年轻、刚刚觉醒的爱情。

Chapter 12
第12章

The load was tied on. Ivan jumped down and took the quiet, sleek horse by the bridle. The young wife flung the rake up on the load, and with a bold step, swinging her arms, she went to join the women, who were forming a ring for the haymakers’ dance. Ivan drove off to the road and fell into line with the other loaded carts. The peasant women, with their rakes on their shoulders, gay with bright flowers, and chattering with ringing, merry voices, walked behind the hay cart. One wild untrained female voice broke into a song, and sang it alone through a verse, and then the same verse was taken up and repeated by half a hundred strong healthy voices, of all sorts, coarse and fine, singing in unison.
负载被绑住了。伊万跳下来，抓住那匹安静、光滑的马缰绳。年轻的妻子把耙子扔到了负载上，然后迈着大胆的一步，挥舞着双臂，走到妇女们身边，她们正在围成一圈，准备跳干草舞。伊万把车开到路边，与其他满载的推车排成一列。农妇们肩上扛着耙子，鲜花盛开，欢声笑语，跟在干草车后面走着。一个未经训练的狂野女声闯入一首歌，独自唱了一首诗，然后同一首诗被半百个粗细各异的强而健康的声音齐声唱着。

The women, all singing, began to come close to Levin, and he felt as though a storm were swooping down upon him with a thunder of merriment. The storm swooped down, enveloped him and the haycock on which he was lying, and the other haycocks, and the wagon-loads, and the whole meadow and distant fields all seemed to be shaking and singing to the measures of this wild merry song with its shouts and whistles and clapping. Levin felt envious of this health and mirthfulness; he longed to take part in the expression of this joy of life. But he could do nothing, and had to lie and look on and listen. When the peasants, with their singing, had vanished out of sight and hearing, a weary feeling of despondency at his own isolation, his physical inactivity, his alienation from this world, came over Levin.
女人们唱着歌，开始靠近莱文，他感觉好像有一场暴风雨带着欢乐的雷鸣般向他袭来。暴风雨猛扑下来，笼罩着他和他躺着的干草堆，还有其他的干草堆，还有货车，整个草地和远处的田野似乎都在摇晃，随着这首狂野而欢快的歌声而歌唱。它的叫喊声、口哨声和鼓掌声。莱文对这种健康和快乐感到羡慕。他渴望参与表达这种生活的乐趣。但他却无能为力，只能躺着看、听。当农民们随着歌声消失在视线和听觉之外时，列文对自己的孤立、身体的缺乏活动、与这个世界的疏远感到一种疲倦的沮丧感。

Some of the very peasants who had been most active in wrangling with him over the hay, some whom he had treated with contumely, and who had tried to cheat him, those very peasants had greeted him goodhumoredly, and evidently had not, were incapable of having any feeling of rancor against him, any regret, any recollection even of having tried to deceive him. All that was drowned in a sea of merry common labor. God gave the day, God gave the strength. And the day and the strength were consecrated to labor, and that labor was its own reward. For whom the labor? What would be its fruits? These were idle considerations— beside the point.
一些曾在干草问题上与他争吵最激烈的农民，一些曾被他侮辱过的农民，以及那些试图欺骗他的农民，那些农民曾和他友好地打过招呼，但显然没有，他们无法做到这一点。对他有任何怨恨，任何后悔，甚至有任何试图欺骗他的回忆。所有这一切都淹没在快乐的共同劳动的海洋中。上帝赐予了日子，上帝赐予了力量。白天和精力都奉献给了劳动，而劳动本身就是回报。为谁劳动？它的果实会是什么？这些都是毫无意义的考虑——不是重点。

Often Levin had admired this life, often he had a sense of envy of the men who led this life; but today for the first time, especially under the influence of what he had seen in the attitude of Ivan Parmenov to his young wife, the idea presented itself definitely to his mind that it was in his power to exchange the dreary, artificial, idle, and individualistic life he was leading for this laborious, pure, and socially delightful life.
莱文常常钦佩这种生活，他常常对那些过着这种生活的人有一种嫉妒的感觉。但今天，尤其是在他所看到的伊凡·帕尔门诺夫对他年轻妻子的态度的影响下，他第一次明确地想到，他有能力改变沉闷的、做作的、闲散的、他过着个人主义的生活，过着这种勤劳、纯洁、社交愉快的生活。

The old man who had been sitting beside him had long ago gone home; the people had all separated. Those who lived near had gone home, while those who came from far were gathered into a group for supper, and to spend the night in the meadow. Levin, unobserved by the peasants, still lay on the haycock, and still looked on and listened and mused. The peasants who remained for the night in the meadow scarcely slept all the short summer night. At first there was the sound of merry talk and laughing all together over the supper, then singing again and laughter.
坐在他身边的老人早已回家了。人们都散了。住得近的都回家了，远来的则聚在一起吃晚饭，在草地上过夜。莱文仍然躺在干草堆上，没有被农民们注意到，仍然看着、听着、沉思着。留在草地上过夜的农民在整个短暂的夏夜里几乎没有睡觉。晚餐时先是欢声笑语，接着又是歌声和笑声。

All the long day of toil had left no trace in them but lightness of heart. Before the early dawn all was hushed. Nothing was to be heard but the night sounds of the frogs that never ceased in the marsh, and the horses snorting in the mist that rose over the meadow before the morning. Rousing himself, Levin got up from the haycock, and looking at the stars, he saw that the night was over.
一整天的劳作在他们身上没有留下任何痕迹，只有轻松的心情。天亮之前，一切都寂静无声。除了沼泽地里从未停止过的青蛙夜间叫声，以及黎明前草地上空升起的薄雾中马匹的喷鼻声外，什么也听不到。列文振作起来，从干草堆上站起来，看着星星，他发现夜晚已经结束了。

‘Well, what am I going to do? How am I to set about it?’ he said to himself, trying to express to himself all the thoughts and feelings he had passed through in that brief night. All the thoughts and feelings he had passed through fell into three separate trains of thought. One was the renunciation of his old life, of his utterly useless education. This renunciation gave him satisfaction, and was easy and simple. Another series of thoughts and mental images related to the life he longed to live now. The simplicity, the purity, the sanity of this life he felt clearly, and he was convinced he would find in it the content, the peace, and the dignity, of the lack of which he was so miserably conscious. But a third series of ideas turned upon the question how to effect this transition from the old life to the new. And there nothing took clear shape for him. ‘Have a wife? Have work and the necessity of work? Leave Pokrovskoe? Buy land? Become a member of a peasant community? Marry a peasant girl? How am I to set about it?’ he asked himself again, and could not find an answer. ‘I haven’t slept all night, though, and I can’t think it out clearly,’ he said to himself. ‘I’ll work it out later. One thing’s certain, this night has decided my fate. All my old dreams of home life were absurd, not the real thing,’ he told himself. ‘It’s all ever so much simpler and better...’
‘那么，我该怎么办呢？我该如何着手呢？”他自言自语，试图向自己表达在那个短暂的夜晚所经历的所有想法和感受。他所经历的所有思绪和感受，分成了三个独立的思绪。一是放弃他过去的生活，放弃他完全无用的教育。这种放弃让他感到满足，而且轻松简单。另一系列的想法和心理图像与他现在渴望的生活有关。他清楚地感受到了这种生活的简单、纯洁和理智，他确信他会在其中找到内容、平静和尊严，而他却痛苦地意识到自己缺乏这些。但第三个系列的想法转向了如何实现从旧生活到新生活的转变的问题。对他来说，一切都没有清晰的形状。 ‘有老婆吗？有工作以及工作的必要性吗？离开波克罗夫斯科？买地？成为农民社区的一员？娶个农家女？我该如何着手呢？”他又问自己，却找不到答案。 “不过我一夜没睡，我也想不清楚。”他自言自语道。 ‘我稍后会解决这个问题。有一点是肯定的，这一夜决定了我的命运。我过去所有关于家庭生活的梦想都是荒谬的，不是真实的，”他告诉自己。 “一切都变得更加简单和美好......”

‘How beautiful!’ he thought, looking at the strange, as it were, mother-of-pearl shell of white fleecy cloudlets resting right over his head in the middle of the sky. ‘How exquisite it all is in this exquisite night! And when was there time for that cloud-shell to form? Just now I looked at the sky, and there was nothing in it—only two white streaks. Yes, and so imperceptibly too my views of life changed!’
“多么美丽啊！”他一边想，一边看着那片奇怪的、仿佛珍珠母贝壳般的白色绒毛云朵，就在他的头顶上方的天空中。 ‘在这美妙的夜晚，这一切是多么美妙啊！那云壳什么时候形成呢？刚才我看了看天空，什么也没有，只有两条白色的条纹。是的，我对生活的看法也不知不觉地改变了！”

He went out of the meadow and walked along the highroad towards the village. A slight wind arose, and the sky looked gray and sullen. The gloomy moment had come that usually precedes the dawn, the full triumph of light over darkness.
他走出草地，沿着大路朝村子走去。一阵微风吹起，天空显得灰暗阴沉。阴沉的时刻通常在黎明之前到来，即光明彻底战胜黑暗。

Shrinking from the cold, Levin walked rapidly, looking at the ground. ‘What’s that? Someone coming,’ he thought, catching the tinkle of bells, and lifting his head. Forty paces from him a carriage with four horses harnessed abreast was driving towards him along the grassy road on which he was walking. The shaft-horses were tilted against the shafts by the ruts, but the dexterous driver sitting on the box held the shaft over the ruts, so that the wheels ran on the smooth part of the road.
莱文冻得瑟瑟发抖，眼睛看着地面，快步走着。 '那是什么？有人来了，”他一边想，一边听到铃声，抬起头。距离他四十步远的地方，一辆四匹马并排的马车正沿着他行走的草地道路向他驶来。轴马因车辙而倾斜在轴上，但坐在箱子上的灵巧的司机将轴保持在车辙上方，以便车轮在平坦的道路上行驶。

This was all Levin noticed, and without wondering who it could be, he gazed absently at the coach.
这就是莱文所注意到的一切，他心不在焉地看着教练，并没有怀疑这会是谁。

In the coach was an old lady dozing in one corner, and at the window, evidently only just awake, sat a young girl holding in both hands the ribbons of a white cap. With a face full of light and thought, full of a subtle, complex inner life, that was remote from Levin, she was gazing beyond him at the glow of the sunrise.
车厢里有一位老太太在角落里打瞌睡，窗边坐着一位年轻姑娘，显然才刚醒，双手拿着一顶白色帽子的丝带。她的脸上充满了光芒和思想，充满了微妙而复杂的内心生活，这与莱文相距甚远，她凝视着他身后的日出光芒。

At the very instant when this apparition was vanishing, the truthful eyes glanced at him. She recognized him, and her face lighted up with wondering delight.
就在这道身影消失的刹那，那双真诚的目光扫向了他。她认出了他，脸上洋溢着惊奇的喜悦。

He could not be mistaken. There were no other eyes like those in the world. There was only one creature in the world that could concentrate for him all the brightness and meaning of life. It was she. It was Kitty. He understood that she was driving to Ergushovo from the railway station. And everything that had been stirring Levin during that sleepless night, all the resolutions he had made, all vanished at once. He recalled with horror his dreams of marrying a peasant girl. There only, in the carriage that had crossed over to the other side of the road, and was rapidly disappearing, there only could he find the solution of the riddle of his life, which had weighed so agonizingly upon him of late.
他不会弄错的。世界上再没有其他眼睛像这样的眼睛了。世界上只有一种生物能够为他集中生命的所有光明和意义。是她。是基蒂。他知道她正从火车站开车前往埃尔古绍沃。那个不眠之夜里，所有让莱文激动不已的事，所有他曾经下过的决心，都一下子消失了。他惊恐地回忆起自己梦见娶一个农家姑娘的情景。只有在那辆已经越过马路并迅速消失的马车里，他才能找到最近困扰他的人生之谜的答案。

She did not look out again. The sound of the carriage-springs was no longer audible, the bells could scarcely be heard. The barking of dogs showed the carriage had reached the village, and all that was left was the empty fields all round, the village in front, and he himself isolated and apart from it all, wandering lonely along the deserted highroad.
她没有再向外张望。马车弹簧的声音已经听不见了，钟声也几乎听不见了。狗叫声表明马车已经到了村子，周围只剩下空旷的田野，前面是村子，而他自己则与这一切隔绝，孤独地沿着荒凉的大路徘徊。

He glanced at the sky, expecting to find there the cloud shell he had been admiring and taking as the symbol of the ideas and feelings of that night. There was nothing in the sky in the least like a shell. There, in the remote heights above, a mysterious change had been accomplished. There was no trace of shell, and there was stretched over fully half the sky an even cover of tiny and ever tinier cloudlets. The sky had grown blue and bright; and with the same softness, but with the same remoteness, it met his questioning gaze.
他看了一眼天空，期待在那里找到他一直欣赏的、象征着当晚想法和感受的云壳。天空中没有任何东西像贝壳一样。在那里，在遥远的高处，发生了神秘的变化。没有任何贝壳的痕迹，半边天空均匀地覆盖着越来越小的云朵。天空变得又蓝又明亮。它以同样的温柔，但同样的疏远，迎接着他询问的目光。

‘No,’ he said to himself, ‘however good that life of simplicity and toil may be, I cannot go back to it. I love her.’
“不，”他对自己说，“无论简朴、辛劳的生活有多美好，我都无法再回到过去了。”我爱她。'

Chapter 13
第13章

None but those who were most intimate with Alexey Alexandrovitch knew that, while on the surface the coldest and most reasonable of men, he had one weakness quite opposed to the general trend of his character. Alexey Alexandrovitch could not hear or see a child or woman crying without being moved. The sight of tears threw him into a state of nervous agitation, and he utterly lost all power of reflection. The chief secretary of his department and his private secretary were aware of this, and used to warn women who came with petitions on no account to give way to tears, if they did not want to ruin their chances. ‘He will get angry, and will not listen to you,’ they used to say. And as a fact, in such cases the emotional disturbance set up in Alexey Alexandrovitch by the sight of tears found expression in hasty anger. ‘I can do nothing. Kindly leave the room!’ he would commonly cry in such cases.
除了那些与阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇最亲密的人之外，没有人知道，虽然表面上他是一个最冷酷、最通情达理的人，但他却有一个与他性格的总体趋势完全相反的弱点。阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇听到或看到孩子或女人的哭声都会感动不已。一看到泪水，他就陷入了紧张不安的状态，完全失去了思考的能力。他所在部门的首席秘书和他的私人秘书意识到了这一点，并经常警告那些带着请愿书前来的妇女，如果她们不想毁掉自己的机会，就决不能流泪。他们常说：“他会生气，不会听你的。”事实上，在这种情况下，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇因看到眼泪而产生的情绪紊乱，表现为仓促的愤怒。 ‘我无能为力。请离开房间！”在这种情况下他通常会哭泣。

When returning from the races Anna had informed him of her relations with Vronsky, and immediately afterwards had burst into tears, hiding her face in her hands, Alexey Alexandrovitch, for all the fury aroused in him against her, was aware at the same time of a rush of that emotional disturbance always produced in him by tears. Conscious of it, and conscious that any expression of his feelings at that minute would be out of keeping with the position, he tried to suppress every manifestation of life in himself, and so neither stirred nor looked at her. This was what had caused that strange expression of deathlike rigidity in his face which had so impressed Anna.
当安娜从赛马场回来时，告诉他她与渥伦斯基的关系，随后立即哭了起来，用手捂住脸，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇尽管对她激起了愤怒，但同时也意识到泪水总是在他身上激起一股情感上的骚动。他意识到这一点，也意识到他此刻的任何感情表达都会与现在的姿势不相称，他试图压抑自己生命中的每一个表现，所以既没有动弹，也没有看她。这就是他脸上那种死一般僵硬的奇怪表情的原因，这种表情给安娜留下了如此深刻的印象。

When they reached the house he helped her to get out of the carriage, and making an effort to master himself, took leave of her with his usual urbanity, and uttered that phrase that bound him to nothing; he said that tomorrow he would let her know his decision.
当他们到达房子时，他扶她下了马车，努力控制自己，以他一贯的礼貌向她告别，说出了那句让他毫无约束力的话；他说明天他会让她知道他的决定。

His wife’s words, confirming his worst suspicions, had sent a cruel pang to the heart of Alexey Alexandrovitch. That pang was intensified by the strange feeling of physical pity for her set up by her tears. But when he was all alone in the carriage Alexey Alexandrovitch, to his surprise and delight, felt complete relief both from this pity and from the doubts and agonies of jealousy.
他妻子的话证实了他最严重的怀疑，给阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇的心带来了残酷的痛苦。她的眼泪让她产生了一种奇怪的身体怜悯感，这种痛苦更加强烈了。但当他独自一人坐在马车上时，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇感到惊讶和高兴，他从这种怜悯、怀疑和嫉妒的痛苦中完全解脱出来。

He experienced the sensations of a man who has had a tooth out after suffering long from toothache. After a fearful agony and a sense of something huge, bigger than the head itself, being torn out of his jaw, the sufferer, hardly able to believe in his own good luck, feels all at once that what has so long poisoned his existence and enchained his attention, exists no longer, and that he can live and think again, and take interest in other things besides his tooth. This feeling Alexey Alexandrovitch was experiencing. The agony had been strange and terrible, but now it was over; he felt that he could live again and think of something other than his wife.
他体验到了长期牙痛后拔牙的感觉。在经历了可怕的痛苦和一种比头本身还大的巨大东西从他的下巴中被撕下来的感觉之后，患者几乎无法相信自己的好运气，突然感觉到是什么长期毒害了他的存在并束缚他的注意力，不再存在，他可以重新生活和思考，并对牙齿以外的其他事物感兴趣。阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇正在经历这种感觉。这种痛苦是奇怪而可怕的，但现在一切都结束了。他觉得自己可以再活一次，除了妻子之外，还能想一些别的事情。

‘No honor, no heart, no religion; a corrupt woman. I always knew it and always saw it, though I tried to deceive myself to spare her,’ he said to himself. And it actually seemed to him that he always had seen it: he recalled incidents of their past life, in which he had never seen anything wrong before—now these incidents proved clearly that she had always been a corrupt woman. ‘I made a mistake in linking my life to hers; but there was nothing wrong in my mistake, and so I cannot be unhappy. It’s not I that am to blame,’ he told himself, ‘but she. But I have nothing to do with her. She does not exist for me...’
“没有荣誉，没有心灵，没有宗教；一个腐败的女人。我一直都知道这一点，也总是看到这一点，尽管我试图欺骗自己来饶恕她，”他对自己说。而他自己却似乎一直都看到了：他回想起他们前世的事情，从来没有看出什么不对劲的地方——现在这些事情清楚地证明了她一直都是一个败坏的女人。 “我犯了一个错误，把我的生活和她的生活联系起来；但我的错误并没有什么错，所以我不能不高兴。这不是我的错，”他告诉自己，“而是她。但我和她没有任何关系。她对我而言并不存在……”

Everything relating to her and her son, towards whom his sentiments were as much changed as towards her, ceased to interest him. The only thing that interested him now was the question of in what way he could best, with most propriety and comfort for himself, and thus with most justice, extricate himself from the mud with which she had spattered him in her fall, and then proceed along his path of active, honorable, and useful existence.
他对她和她儿子的感情和对她的感情一样发生了变化，一切与她和她儿子有关的事情都不再感兴趣。现在唯一让他感兴趣的问题是，他怎样才能最好地从她摔倒时溅到他身上的泥浆中解脱出来，以最得体、最舒服的方式，从而最公正地摆脱困境，然后继续前进。沿着他积极、光荣和有用的存在之路。

‘I cannot be made unhappy by the fact that a contemptible woman has committed a crime. I have only to find the best way out of the difficult position in which she has placed me. And I shall find it,’ he said to himself, frowning more and more. ‘I’m not the first nor the last.’ And to say nothing of historical instances dating from the ‘Fair Helen’ of Menelaus, recently revived in the memory of all, a whole list of contemporary examples of husbands with unfaithful wives in the highest society rose before Alexey Alexandrovitch’s imagination. ‘Daryalov, Poltavsky, Prince Karibanov, Count Paskudin, Dram.... Yes, even Dram, such an honest, capable fellow...Semyonov, Tchagin, Sigonin,’ Alexey Alexandrovitch remembered. ‘Admitting that a certain quite irrational ridicule falls to the lot of these men, yet I never saw anything but a misfortune in it, and always felt sympathy for it,’ Alexey Alexandrovitch said to himself, though indeed this was not the fact, and he had never felt sympathy for misfortunes of that kind, but the more frequently he had heard of instances of unfaithful wives betraying their husbands, the more highly he had thought of himself. ‘It is a misfortune which may befall anyone. And this misfortune has befallen me. The only thing to be done is to make the best of the position.’
“我不能因为一个卑鄙的女人犯下罪行而感到不高兴。我只需找到最好的出路，摆脱她给我带来的困境。我会找到它的。”他对自己说，眉头皱得越来越紧。 “我不是第一个，也不是最后一个。”更不用说墨涅拉俄斯的“美丽的海伦”的历史实例了，最近又在所有人的记忆中复活了，这是当代丈夫与妻子不忠的例子的完整列表。上流社会的崛起先于阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇的想象。 “达里亚洛夫、波尔塔夫斯基、卡里巴诺夫王子、帕斯库丁伯爵、德拉姆……是的，甚至还有德拉姆，一个诚实、能干的家伙……谢苗诺夫、查金、西戈宁，”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇回忆道。 “承认这些人的命运受到了某种相当非理性的嘲笑，但我只看到了其中的不幸，并且总是对此感到同情，”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇对自己说，尽管事实上这不是事实，而且他从来不同情这种不幸，但他越常听到不忠的妻子背叛丈夫的事例，他对自己的评价就越高。 ‘这是可能降临到任何人身上的不幸。而这样的不幸就降临到了我的身上。唯一要做的就是充分利用这个位置。

And he began passing in review the methods of proceeding of men who had been in the same position that he was in.
他开始回顾那些与他处境相同的人的行事方法。

‘Daryalov fought a duel....’
“达里亚洛夫进行了一场决斗……”

The duel had particularly fascinated the thoughts of Alexey Alexandrovitch in his youth, just because he was physically a coward, and was himself well aware of the fact. Alexey Alexandrovitch could not without horror contemplate the idea of a pistol aimed at himself, and had never made use of any weapon in his life. This horror had in his youth set him pondering on dueling, and picturing himself in a position in which he would have to expose his life to danger. Having attained success and an established position in the world, he had long ago forgotten this feeling; but the habitual bent of feeling reasserted itself, and dread of his own cowardice proved even now so strong that Alexey Alexandrovitch spent a long while thinking over the question of dueling in all its aspects, and hugging the idea of a duel, though he was fully aware beforehand that he would never under any circumstances fight one.
年轻时的阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇对这场决斗特别着迷，因为他本身就是一个胆小鬼，而且他自己也清楚这一事实。阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇一想到用手枪瞄准自己就感到恐惧，他一生中从未使用过任何武器。这种恐惧让他在年轻时开始思考决斗，并想象自己处于一个必须将自己的生命置于危险之中的境地。有了功成名就，有了地位，他早就忘记了这种感觉。但是习惯性的感觉倾向再次出现，而且即使现在他对自己的怯懦的恐惧仍然如此强烈，以至于阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇花了很长时间思考决斗的各个方面的问题，并拥抱决斗的想法，尽管他完全事先意识到他在任何情况下都不会与人战斗。

‘There’s no doubt our society is still so barbarous (it’s not the same in England) that very many’—and among these were those whose opinion Alexey Alexandrovitch particularly valued—‘look favorably on the duel; but what result is attained by it? Suppose I call him out,’ Alexey Alexandrovitch went on to himself, and vividly picturing the night he would spend after the challenge, and the pistol aimed at him, he shuddered, and knew that he never would do it—‘suppose I call him out. Suppose I am taught,’ he went on musing, ‘to shoot; I press the trigger,’ he said to himself, closing his eyes, ‘and it turns out I have killed him,’ Alexey Alexandrovitch said to himself, and he shook his head as though to dispel such silly ideas. ‘What sense is there in murdering a man in order to define one’s relation to a guilty wife and son? I should still just as much have to decide what I ought to do with her. But what is more probable and what would doubtless occur—I should be killed or wounded. I, the innocent person, should be the victim—killed or wounded. It’s even more senseless. But apart from that, a challenge to fight would be an act hardly honest on my side. Don’t I know perfectly well that my friends would never allow me to fight a duel—would never allow the life of a statesman, needed by Russia, to be exposed to danger? Knowing perfectly well beforehand that the matter would never come to real danger, it would amount to my simply trying to gain a certain sham reputation by such a challenge. That would be dishonest, that would be false, that would be deceiving myself and others. A duel is quite irrational, and no one expects it of me. My aim is simply to safeguard my reputation, which is essential for the uninterrupted pursuit of my public duties.’ Official duties, which had always been of great consequence in Alexey Alexandrovitch’s eyes, seemed of special importance to his mind at this moment. Considering and rejecting the duel, Alexey Alexandrovitch turned to divorce—another solution selected by several of the husbands he remembered. Passing in mental review all the instances he knew of divorces (there were plenty of them in the very highest society with which he was very familiar), Alexey Alexandrovitch could not find a single example in which the object of divorce was that which he had in view. In all these instances the husband had practically ceded or sold his unfaithful wife, and the very party which, being in fault, had not the right to contract a fresh marriage, had formed counterfeit, pseudo-matrimonial ties with a self-styled husband. In his own case, Alexey Alexandrovitch saw that a legal divorce, that is to say, one in which only the guilty wife would be repudiated, was impossible of attainment. He saw that the complex conditions of the life they led made the coarse proofs of his wife’s guilt, required by the law, out of the question; he saw that a certain refinement in that life would not admit of such proofs being brought forward, even if he had them, and that to bring forward such proofs would damage him in the public estimation more than it would her.
“毫无疑问，我们的社会仍然如此野蛮（英国的情况不一样），以至于很多人——其中包括那些阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇特别重视的人——“对决斗抱有好感；但这样做能达到什么结果呢？假设我叫他出去，”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇继续说道，生动地想象着挑战结束后他将度过的那个夜晚，手枪瞄准了他，他颤抖着，知道他永远不会这样做——“假设我叫他出去。假设我被教导，”他继续沉思道，“射击；我扣动扳机，”他闭上眼睛对自己说，“结果是我杀了他，”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇对自己说，他摇了摇头，仿佛要打消这种愚蠢的想法。 ‘为了确定一个人与有罪的妻子和儿子的关系而谋杀一个男人有什么意义？我仍然必须决定我应该对她做什么。但更有可能发生的事情，毫无疑问会发生的事情——我应该被杀或受伤。我，无辜的人，应该是受害者——被杀或受伤。更是毫无意义。但除此之外，挑战战斗对我来说就不是诚实的行为。难道我不是很清楚，我的朋友们永远不会允许我决斗——永远不会允许俄罗斯需要的政治家的生命面临危险吗？我事先就清楚地知道这件事永远不会带来真正的危险，但这无异于我只是想通过这样的挑战来获得某种虚假的声誉。那将是不诚实的，那将是虚假的，那将是欺骗自己和他人。决斗是相当不合理的，没有人指望我会这么做。我的目标只是维护我的声誉，这对于我不间断地履行公共职责至关重要。公务在阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇眼中一直具有重要意义，此时此刻对他来说似乎特别重要。考虑并拒绝决斗后，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇转向离婚——这是他记忆中的几位丈夫选择的另一个解决方案。阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇在心里回顾了他所知道的所有离婚事例（他非常熟悉的上流社会里有很多离婚事例），但没有找到一个离婚的对象是他所拥有的离婚的例子。看法。在所有这些情况下，丈夫实际上已经放弃或出卖了他不忠的妻子，而有过错的一方无权缔结新婚姻，却与自封的丈夫建立了虚假的、伪婚姻关系。阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇在他自己的案例中发现，合法离婚，也就是说，只有有罪的妻子才会被休妻，是不可能实现的。他发现，他们生活的复杂状况使得法律要求的证明他妻子有罪的粗略证据根本不可能；他看到，生活中的某种精致程度不允许提出这样的证据，即使他有这些证据，而且提出这样的证据在公众眼中对他的损害比对她的损害更大。

An attempt at divorce could lead to nothing but a public scandal, which would be a perfect godsend to his enemies for calumny and attacks on his high position in society. His chief object, to define the position with the least amount of disturbance possible, would not be attained by divorce either. Moreover, in the event of divorce, or even of an attempt to obtain a divorce, it was obvious that the wife broke off all relations with the husband and threw in her lot with the lover. And in spite of the complete, as he supposed, contempt and indifference he now felt for his wife, at the bottom of his heart Alexey Alexandrovitch still had one feeling left in regard to her—a disinclination to see her free to throw in her lot with Vronsky, so that her crime would be to her advantage. The mere notion of this so exasperated Alexey Alexandrovitch, that directly it rose to his mind he groaned with inward agony, and got up and changed his place in the carriage, and for a long while after, he sat with scowling brows, wrapping his numbed and bony legs in the fleecy rug.
试图离婚只会导致公开丑闻，这对于诽谤和攻击他社会崇高地位的敌人来说是完美的天赐之物。他的主要目标是以尽可能少的干扰来确定地位，但离婚也无法实现。而且，一旦离婚，甚至试图离婚，妻子显然就断绝了与丈夫的一切关系，并与情人投奔了。尽管正如他所想的那样，他现在对妻子感到完全的蔑视和冷漠，但在他的心底，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇仍然对她有一种感觉——不愿意看到她自由地投身于自己的命运。和渥伦斯基在一起，这样她的犯罪行为就会对她有利。光是想到这一点，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇就恼怒不已，他内心痛苦地呻吟着，站起来，在马车上换了个位置，过了好一会儿，他皱着眉头坐着，裹着麻木的身体。和柔软的地毯上的瘦骨嶙峋的腿。

‘Apart from formal divorce, One might still do like Karibanov, Paskudin, and that good fellow Dram—that is, separate from one’s wife,’ he went on thinking, when he had regained his composure. But this step too presented the same drawback of public scandal as a divorce, and what was more, a separation, quite as much as a regular divorce, flung his wife into the arms of Vronsky. ‘No, it’s out of the question, out of the question!’ he said again, twisting his rug about him again. ‘I cannot be unhappy, but neither she nor he ought to be happy.’
“除了正式离婚之外，人们还可以像卡里巴诺夫、帕斯库丁和德拉姆那个好家伙那样——也就是说，与妻子分开，”当他恢复平静后，他继续想。但这一步也带来了与离婚一样的公共丑闻的缺点，更重要的是，分居，就像普通离婚一样，把他的妻子投入了渥伦斯基的怀抱。 “不，这是不可能的，不可能的！”他再次说道，并再次将地毯缠在身上。 “我不能不高兴，但她和他都不应该高兴。”

The feeling of jealousy, which had tortured him during the period of uncertainty, had passed away at the instant when the tooth had been with agony extracted by his wife’s words. But that feeling had been replaced by another, the desire, not merely that she should not be triumphant, but that she should get due punishment for her crime. He did not acknowledge this feeling, but at the bottom of his heart he longed for her to suffer for having destroyed his peace of mind—his honor. And going once again over the conditions inseparable from a duel, a divorce, a separation, and once again rejecting them, Alexey Alexandrovitch felt convinced that there was only one solution,—to keep her with him, concealing what had happened from the world, and using every measure in his power to break off the intrigue, and still more—though this he did not admit to himself—to punish her. ‘I must inform her of my conclusion, that thinking over the terrible position in which she has placed her family, all other solutions will be worse for both sides than an external status quo, and that such I agree to retain, on the strict condition of obedience on her part to my wishes, that is to say, cessation of all intercourse with her lover.’ When this decision had been finally adopted, another weighty consideration occurred to Alexey Alexandrovitch in support of it. ‘By such a course only shall I be acting in accordance with the dictates of religion,’ he told himself. ‘In adopting this course, I am not casting off a guilty wife, but giving her a chance of amendment; and, indeed, difficult as the task will be to me, I shall devote part of my energies to her reformation and salvation.’
那些在不确定的时期折磨着他的嫉妒感，在被妻子的话痛苦地拔掉那颗牙齿的那一刻就消失了。但这种感觉已经被另一种感觉所取代，一种渴望，不仅是她不应该得意，而且是她应该为自己的罪行得到应有的惩罚。他不承认这种感觉，但心底却渴望她因为破坏了他内心的平静——他的荣誉而受苦。再次审视与决斗、离婚、分居密不可分的条件，并再次拒绝它们，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇确信只有一个解决方案，那就是让她和他在一起，向世界隐瞒所发生的事情，他用尽一切手段来阻止阴谋，甚至——尽管他自己不承认——惩罚她。 “我必须告诉她我的结论，考虑到她让她的家人处于可怕的境地，所有其他解决方案对双方来说都比维持外部现状更糟糕，我同意在严格的条件下保留这一点当这个决定最终被通过时，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇又想到了另一个重要的考虑来支持这个决定。 “只有这样，我才能按照宗教的要求行事，”他告诉自己。 “我采取这样的做法，并不是要抛弃有罪的妻子，而是给她一个改过自新的机会；事实上，尽管这项任务对我来说很困难，但我将投入部分精力来改革和拯救她。

Though Alexey Alexandrovitch was perfectly aware that he could not exert any moral influence over his wife, that such an attempt at reformation could lead to nothing but falsity; though in passing through these difficult moments he had not once thought of seeking guidance in religion, yet now, when his conclusion corresponded, as it seemed to him, with the requirements of religion, this religious sanction to his decision gave him complete satisfaction, and to some extent restored his peace of mind. He was pleased to think that, even in such an important crisis in life, no one would be able to say that he had not acted in accordance with the principles of that religion whose banner he had always held aloft amid the general coolness and indifference. As he pondered over subsequent developments, Alexey Alexandrovitch did not see, indeed, why his relations with his wife should not remain practically the same as before. No doubt, she could never regain his esteem, but there was not, and there could not be, any sort of reason that his existence should be troubled, and that he should suffer because she was a bad and faithless wife. ‘Yes, time will pass; time, which arranges all things, and the old relations will be reestablished,’ Alexey Alexandrovitch told himself; ‘so far reestablished, that is, that I shall not be sensible of a break in the continuity of my life. She is bound to be unhappy, but I am not to blame, and so I cannot be unhappy.’
尽管阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇非常清楚他无法对他的妻子施加任何道德影响，但这种改革的尝试只会导致虚假。尽管在经历这些困难的时刻时，他从未想过寻求宗教的指导，但现在，当他的结论在他看来符合宗教的要求时，这种对他的决定的宗教认可使他完全满意，并且一定程度上恢复了他内心的平静。他很高兴地想到，即使在人生如此重要的危机中，没有人能说他没有按照宗教的原则行事，他在普遍的冷漠和冷漠中始终高举着该宗教的旗帜。当阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇思考随后的事态发展时，他确实不明白为什么他与妻子的关系实际上不应该像以前一样。毫无疑问，她永远不可能重新获得他的尊重，但是没有也不可能有任何理由让他的生活受到困扰，让他因为她是一个不忠的坏妻子而受苦。 ‘是的，时间会过去；时间会安排一切，旧的关系将会重建。”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇告诉自己。 “到目前为止，我的生活已经重新建立起来，我不会感觉到生活的连续性被中断。她一定会不高兴，但不能怪我，所以我不能不高兴。”

Chapter 14
第14章

As he neared Petersburg, Alexey Alexandrovitch not only adhered entirely to his decision, but was even composing in his head the letter he would write to his wife. Going into the porter’s room, Alexey Alexandrovitch glanced at the letters and papers brought from his office, and directed that they should be brought to him in his study.
当他接近彼得堡时，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇不仅完全坚持自己的决定，甚至还在脑子里写着他要写给妻子的信。走进看门人的房间，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇看了一眼从他办公室带来的信件和文件，并指示将它们带到他的书房里。

‘The horses can be taken out and I will see no one,’ he said in answer to the porter, with a certain pleasure, indicative of his agreeable frame of mind, emphasizing the words, ‘see no one.’
“马匹可以出去，我不会看到任何人，”他带着某种愉快的心情回答搬运工，表明他的心情愉快，并强调了“谁也看不见”这句话。

In his study Alexey Alexandrovitch walked up and down twice, and stopped at an immense writing-table, on which six candles had already been lighted by the valet who had preceded him. He cracked his knuckles and sat down, sorting out his writing appurtenances. Putting his elbows on the table, he bent his head on one side, thought a minute, and began to write, without pausing for a second. He wrote without using any form of address to her, and wrote in French, making use of the plural ‘vous,’ which has not the same note of coldness as the corresponding Russian form.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇在他的书房里来回走了两圈，最后停在一张巨大的写字台前，前面的男仆已经在上面点燃了六支蜡烛。他敲响了指关节，坐下来，整理着自己的书写用具。他把胳膊肘撑在桌子上，把头偏向一侧，想了一会儿，然后开始写，没有停顿。他在写信时没有对她使用任何形式的称呼，而是用法语写的，使用了复数“vous”，它与相应的俄语形式没有同样的冷漠气息。

‘At our last conversation, I notified you of my intention to communicate to you my decision in regard to the subject of that conversation. Having carefully considered everything, I am writing now with the object of fulfilling that promise. My decision is as follows. Whatever your conduct may have been, I do not consider myself justified in breaking the ties in which we are bound by a Higher Power. The family cannot be broken up by a whim, a caprice, or even by the sin of one of the partners in the marriage, and our life must go on as it has done in the past. This is essential for me, for you, and for our son. I am fully persuaded that you have repented and do repent of what has called forth the present letter, and that you will cooperate with me in eradicating the cause of our estrangement, and forgetting the past. In the contrary event, you can conjecture what awaits you and your son. All this I hope to discuss more in detail in a personal interview. As the season is drawing to a close, I would beg you to return to Petersburg as quickly as possible, not later than Tuesday. All necessary preparations shall be made for your arrival here. I beg you to note that I attach particular significance to compliance with this request.
‘在我们上次谈话中，我通知你我打算向你传达我对这次谈话主题的决定。经过仔细考虑，我现在写下这篇文章的目的就是为了实现这个诺言。我的决定如下。无论你的行为是什么，我认为自己没有理由打破我们受更高权力约束的纽带。家庭不能因为心血来潮、反复无常，甚至因为婚姻中一方的罪孽而破裂，我们的生活必须像过去一样继续下去。这对我、对你和我们的儿子来说都是至关重要的。我完全相信，你已经悔改了，并且确实对引起这封信的事情悔改了，并且你会与我合作，消除我们隔阂的根源，并忘记过去。相反，你可以猜测等待着你和你儿子的是什么。所有这些我希望在个人采访中更详细地讨论。由于赛季即将结束，我恳求您尽快返回圣彼得堡，不要晚于周二。为您抵达这里做好一切必要的准备。请您注意，我特别重视遵守这一要求。

A. Karenin
A·卡列宁

‘P.S.—I enclose the money which may be needed for your expenses.’
“附注——我附上您可能需要的费用。”

He read the letter through and felt pleased with it, and especially that he had remembered to enclose money: there was not a harsh word, not a reproach in it, nor was there undue indulgence. Most of all, it was a golden bridge for return. Folding the letter and smoothing it with a massive ivory knife, and putting it in an envelope with the money, he rang the bell with the gratification it always afforded him to use the well arranged appointments of his writing-table.
他把信看完了，心里很高兴，尤其是他还记得附上钱，里面没有任何刺耳的话，没有责备，也没有过分的纵容。最重要的是，这是一座回归的金桥。他把信折叠起来，用一把巨大的象牙刀把它弄平，然后把它和钱一起放进一个信封里，然后他按响了门铃，心里很满足，因为这总能让他使用写字台上精心安排的约会。

‘Give this to the courier to be delivered to Anna Arkadyevna tomorrow at the summer villa,’ he said, getting up.
“把这个交给快递员，明天送到避暑别墅给安娜·阿尔卡季耶芙娜，”他站起身来说道。

‘Certainly, your excellency; tea to be served in the study?’
“当然可以，阁下；书房里要喝茶吗？

Alexey Alexandrovitch ordered tea to be brought to the study, and playing with the massive paper-knife, he moved to his easy chair, near which there had been placed ready for him a lamp and the French work on Egyptian hieroglyphics that he had begun. Over the easy chair there hung in a gold frame an oval portrait of Anna, a fine painting by a celebrated artist. Alexey Alexandrovitch glanced at it. The unfathomable eyes gazed ironically and insolently at him. Insufferably insolent and challenging was the effect in Alexey Alexandrovitch’s eyes of the black lace about the head, admirably touched in by the painter, the black hair and handsome white hand with one finger lifted, covered with rings. After looking at the portrait for a minute, Alexey Alexandrovitch shuddered so that his lips quivered and he uttered the sound ‘brrr,’ and turned away. He made haste to sit down in his easy chair and opened the book. He tried to read, but he could not revive the very vivid interest he had felt before in Egyptian hieroglyphics. He looked at the book and thought of something else. He thought not of his wife, but of a complication that had arisen in his official life, which at the time constituted the chief interest of it. He felt that he had penetrated more deeply than ever before into this intricate affair, and that he had originated a leading idea—he could say it without self-flattery—calculated to clear up the whole business, to strengthen him in his official career, to discomfit his enemies, and thereby to be of the greatest benefit to the government. Directly the servant had set the tea and left the room, Alexey Alexandrovitch got up and went to the writing-table. Moving into the middle of the table a portfolio of papers, with a scarcely perceptible smile of self-satisfaction, he took a pencil from a rack and plunged into the perusal of a complex report relating to the present complication. The complication was of this nature: Alexey Alexandrovitch’s characteristic quality as a politician, that special individual qualification that every rising functionary possesses, the qualification that with his unflagging ambition, his reserve, his honesty, and with his self-confidence had made his career, was his contempt for red tape, his cutting down of correspondence, his direct contact, wherever possible, with the living fact, and his economy. It happened that the famous Commission of the 2nd of June had set on foot an inquiry into the irrigation of lands in the Zaraisky province, which fell under Alexey Alexandrovitch’s department, and was a glaring example of fruitless expenditure and paper reforms. Alexey Alexandrovitch was aware of the truth of this. The irrigation of these lands in the Zaraisky province had been initiated by the predecessor of Alexey Alexandrovitch’s predecessor. And vast sums of money had actually been spent and were still being spent on this business, and utterly unproductively, and the whole business could obviously lead to nothing whatever. Alexey Alexandrovitch had perceived this at once on entering office, and would have liked to lay hands on the Board of Irrigation. But at first, when he did not yet feel secure in his position, he knew it would affect too many interests, and would be injudicious. Later on he had been engrossed in other questions, and had simply forgotten the Board of Irrigation. It went of itself, like all such boards, by the mere force of inertia. (Many people gained their livelihood by the Board of Irrigation, especially one highly conscientious and musical family: all the daughters played on stringed instruments, and Alexey Alexandrovitch knew the family and had stood godfather to one of the elder daughters.) The raising of this question by a hostile department was in Alexey Alexandrovitch’s opinion a dishonorable proceeding, seeing that in every department there were things similar and worse, which no one inquired into, for well-known reasons of official etiquette. However, now that the glove had been thrown down to him, he had boldly picked it up and demanded the appointment of a special commission to investigate and verify the working of the Board of Irrigation of the lands in the Zaraisky province. But in compensation he gave no quarter to the enemy either. He demanded the appointment of another special commission to inquire into the question of the Native Tribes Organization Committee. The question of the Native Tribes had been brought up incidentally in the Commission of the 2nd of June, and had been pressed forward actively by Alexey Alexandrovitch as one admitting of no delay on account of the deplorable condition of the native tribes. In the commission this question had been a ground of contention between several departments. The department hostile to Alexey Alexandrovitch proved that the condition of the native tribes was exceedingly flourishing, that the proposed reconstruction might be the ruin of their prosperity, and that if there were anything wrong, it arose mainly from the failure on the part of Alexey Alexandrovitch’s department to carry out the measures prescribed by law. Now Alexey Alexandrovitch intended to demand: First, that a new commission should be formed which should be empowered to investigate the condition of the native tribes on the spot; secondly, if it should appear that the condition of the native tribes actually was such as it appeared to be from the official documents in the hands of the committee, that another new scientific commission should be appointed to investigate the deplorable condition of the native tribes from the—(1) political, (2) administrative, (3) economic, (4) ethnographical, (5) material, and (6) religious points of view; thirdly, that evidence should be required from the rival department of the measures that had been taken during the last ten years by that department for averting the disastrous conditions in which the native tribes were now placed; and fourthly and finally, that that department explain why it had, as appeared from the evidence before the committee, from No. 17,015 and 18,038, from December 5, 1863, and June 7, 1864, acted in direct contravention of the intent of the law T...Act 18, and the note to Act 36. A flash of eagerness suffused the face of Alexey Alexandrovitch as he rapidly wrote out a synopsis of these ideas for his own benefit. Having filled a sheet of paper, he got up, rang, and sent a note to the chief secretary of his department to look up certain necessary facts for him. Getting up and walking about the room, he glanced again at the portrait, frowned, and smiled contemptuously. After reading a little more of the book on Egyptian hieroglyphics, and renewing his interest in it, Alexey Alexandrovitch went to bed at eleven o’clock, and recollecting as he lay in bed the incident with his wife, he saw it now in by no means such a gloomy light.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇吩咐人把茶送到书房，玩弄着那把巨大的裁纸刀，他走到安乐椅上，椅子附近已经为他准备好了一盏灯，还有他已经开始的埃及象形文字的法国作品。安乐椅上方的金色镜框里挂着一幅安娜的椭圆形肖像，这是一位著名艺术家的精美画作。阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇看了一眼。那双深不可测的眼睛讽刺而傲慢地看着他。在阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇的眼中，令人难以忍受的傲慢和挑战性是头上的黑色蕾丝，画家令人钦佩地触摸，黑色的头发和英俊的白手举起一根手指，上面戴着戒指。阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇看了一会肖像，浑身发抖，嘴唇颤抖着，发出“呜呜”的声音，然后转身走开。他赶紧坐到安乐椅上，打开书。他尝试阅读，但无法恢复他以前对埃及象形文字的强烈兴趣。他看着书，想到了别的事情。他想到的不是他的妻子，而是他的官方生活中出现的复杂情况，这在当时构成了他的主要兴趣。他觉得自己对这件错综复杂的事情比以往任何时候都了解得更深，而且他已经产生了一个主导性的想法——他可以毫不自吹自擂地这么说——打算把整个事情弄清楚，以加强他的仕途，挫败敌人，从而为政府带来最大的利益。仆人刚把茶泡好，离开房间，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇就起身走到写字台前。 他把一叠文件移到桌子中央，脸上挂着几乎难以察觉的自鸣得意的微笑，从架子上拿出一支铅笔，开始仔细阅读一份与当前复杂情况有关的复杂报告。复杂性是这样的：阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇作为政治家的特有品质，每一个冉冉升起的官员都拥有的特殊个人资格，他的不懈野心、他的矜持、他的诚实和他的自信成就了他的职业生涯的资格，是他对繁文缛节的蔑视，他减少信件往来，他尽可能直接接触现实的事实，以及他的经济。碰巧的是，著名的 6 月 2 日委员会开始对扎赖斯基省的土地灌溉问题进行调查，该省属于阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇的部门，是支出和文件改革毫无结果的明显例子。阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇知道这一点的真相。扎赖斯基省这些土地的灌溉是由阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇的前任的前任发起的。事实上，大量的资金已经花在了这项业务上，并且仍在花费，而且毫无成效，整个业务显然不会有任何结果。阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇一上任就意识到了这一点，并希望对灌溉委员会下手。但一开始，当他对自己的地位还没有感到安全时，他知道这会影响太多的利益，而且是不明智的。后来他全神贯注于其他问题，干脆忘记了灌溉局。它像所有此类木板一样，仅靠惯性力自行移动。 （许多人靠灌溉委员会谋生，特别是一个高度认真和音乐的家庭：所有的女儿都演奏弦乐器，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇认识这个家庭，并且是其中一个大女儿的教父。）在阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇看来，敌对部门提出的问题是一种不光彩的行为，因为每个部门都存在类似甚至更糟糕的事情，而且出于众所周知的官方礼仪原因，没有人去调查这些事情。然而，既然手套已经扔给他，他就大胆地捡了起来，要求任命一个特别委员会来调查和核实扎赖斯基省土地灌溉委员会的工作情况。但作为补偿，他也没有向敌人宽恕。他要求任命另一个特别委员会来调查土著部落组织委员会的问题。土著部落问题是在6月2日的委员会中偶然提出的，并由阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇积极推动，他承认由于土著部落的悲惨状况，毫不拖延。在委员会中，这个问题一直是多个部门争论的焦点。对阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇怀有敌意的部门证明，当地部落的状况非常繁荣，拟议的重建可能会破坏他们的繁荣，如果有什么问题的话，主要是由于阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇的失败。部门依法采取的措施。 现在阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇打算要求：第一，成立一个新的委员会，授权其调查当地土著部落的现场状况；其次，如果土著部落的状况确实如委员会手中的官方文件所显示的那样，则应任命另一个新的科学委员会来调查土著部落的悲惨状况。 ——(1) 政治观点、(2) 行政观点、(3) 经济观点、(4) 民族志观点、(5) 物质观点和 (6) 宗教观点；第三，应要求敌对部门提供证据，证明该部门在过去十年中为避免土著部落目前所处的灾难性状况而采取的措施；第四，也是最后一点，该部门解释为什么从委员会收到的证据来看，从 1863 年 12 月 5 日到 1864 年 6 月 7 日，第 17,015 号和第 18,038 号的证据显示，该部门的行为直接违背了委员会的意图。 T 法……第 18 号法案，以及第 36 号法案的注释。阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇为了自己的利益，迅速写下了这些想法的概要，脸上闪现出一丝渴望。填完一张纸后，他起身，打电话给他所在部门的首席秘书，让他查找一些必要的事实。他起身在房间里走来走去，又看了一眼肖像，皱起眉头，轻蔑地笑了笑。阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇又读了一点关于埃及象形文字的书，并重新对它产生了兴趣，十一点钟就上床睡觉了，躺在床上回忆起与妻子发生的事情，他现在已经不记得了。意味着如此阴暗的光。

Chapter 15
第15章

Though Anna had obstinately and with exasperation contradicted Vronsky when he told her their position was impossible, at the bottom of her heart she regarded her own position as false and dishonorable, and she longed with her whole soul to change it. On the way home from the races she had told her husband the truth in a moment of excitement, and in spite of the agony she had suffered in doing so, she was glad of it. After her husband had left her, she told herself that she was glad, that now everything was made clear, and at least there would be no more lying and deception. It seemed to her beyond doubt that her position was now made clear forever. It might be bad, this new position, but it would be clear; there would be no indefiniteness or falsehood about it. The pain she had caused herself and her husband in uttering those words would be rewarded now by everything being made clear, she thought. That evening she saw Vronsky, but she did not tell him of what had passed between her and her husband, though, to make the position definite, it was necessary to tell him.
尽管当渥伦斯基告诉安娜他们的立场是不可能的时候，安娜固执地、愤怒地反驳了他，但在她内心深处，她认为自己的立场是虚假的、不光彩的，她全心全意地渴望改变它。在比赛结束回家的路上，她兴奋地告诉了丈夫真相，尽管她为此遭受了痛苦，但她还是很高兴。丈夫离开后，她告诉自己很高兴，现在一切都清楚了，至少不会再有谎言和欺骗了。在她看来，毫无疑问，她的立场现在已经永远明确了。这个新的立场可能很糟糕，但很清楚；它不会有任何不确定性或虚假性。她想，说出这些话给她自己和丈夫带来的痛苦现在会因为一切都弄清楚而得到回报。那天晚上，她见到了渥伦斯基，但她没有告诉他她和她丈夫之间发生的事情，不过，为了明确立场，有必要告诉他。

When she woke up next morning the first thing that rose to her mind was what she had said to her husband, and those words seemed to her so awful that she could not conceive now how she could have brought herself to utter those strange, coarse words, and could not imagine what would come of it. But the words were spoken, and Alexey Alexandrovitch had gone away without saying anything. ‘I saw Vronsky and did not tell him. At the very instant he was going away I would have turned him back and told him, but I changed my mind, because it was strange that I had not told him the first minute. Why was it I wanted to tell him and did not tell him?’ And in answer to this question a burning blush of shame spread over her face. She knew what had kept her from it, she knew that she had been ashamed. Her position, which had seemed to her simplified the night before, suddenly struck her now as not only not simple, but as absolutely hopeless. She felt terrified at the disgrace, of which she had not ever thought before. Directly she thought of what her husband would do, the most terrible ideas came to her mind. She had a vision of being turned out of the house, of her shame being proclaimed to all the world. She asked herself where she should go when she was turned out of the house, and she could not find an answer.
第二天早上，当她醒来时，她脑海中浮现的第一件事就是她对丈夫说的话，这些话对她来说是如此可怕，以至于她现在无法想象自己怎么能说出那些奇怪、粗俗的话。 ，无法想象会发生什么。但话一出口，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇什么也没说就走了。 “我看到了渥伦斯基，但没有告诉他。在他要走的那一刻，我本想把他转回来并告诉他，但我改变了主意，因为奇怪的是我没有在第一分钟就告诉他。为什么我想告诉他却没有告诉他？”回答这个问题时，她的脸上泛起羞愧的红晕。她知道是什么阻止了她，她知道她感到羞耻。前一天晚上，她的立场似乎变得简单了，但现在突然让她觉得不仅不简单，而且绝对没有希望。她对这种耻辱感到恐惧，这是她以前从未想到过的。她一想到丈夫会做什么，最可怕的想法就浮现在她的脑海里。她梦见自己被赶出了家门，她的耻辱被公之于众。她问自己被赶出家门后该去哪里，却找不到答案。

When she thought of Vronsky, it seemed to her that he did not love her, that he was already beginning to be tired of her, that she could not offer herself to him, and she felt bitter against him for it. It seemed to her that the words that she had spoken to her husband, and had continually repeated in her imagination, she had said to everyone, and everyone had heard them. She could not bring herself to look those of her own household in the face. She could not bring herself to call her maid, and still less go downstairs and see her son and his governess.
当她想到渥伦斯基时，她觉得他不爱她，他已经开始厌倦她，她不能把自己奉献给他，她为此对他感到痛苦。在她看来，她对丈夫说过的话，以及在她的想象中不断重复的那些话，她都对每个人说过，每个人都听到了。她无法直视自己家人的脸。她不敢叫她的女仆，更不敢下楼去见她的儿子和他的家庭教师。

The maid, who had been listening at her door for a long while, came into her room of her own accord. Anna glanced inquiringly into her face, and blushed with a scared look. The maid begged her pardon for coming in, saying that she had fancied the bell rang. She brought her clothes and a note. The note was from Betsy. Betsy reminded her that Liza Merkalova and Baroness Shtoltz were coming to play croquet with her that morning with their adorers, Kaluzhsky and old Stremov. ‘Come, if only as a study in morals. I shall expect you,’ she finished.
那个在门口听了许久的丫鬟，主动走进了自己的房间。安娜疑惑地看着她的脸，脸上露出害怕的表情。女仆请求她进来，说她以为门铃响了。她带来了衣服和一张纸条。这张纸条是贝特西寄来的。贝特西提醒她，莉莎·梅尔卡洛娃和什托尔茨男爵夫人那天早上要和她们的崇拜者卡卢日斯基和老斯特雷莫夫一起玩槌球。 “来吧，哪怕只是作为道德研究。”我会等你的，”她最后说道。

Anna read the note and heaved a deep sigh.
安娜读完纸条，深深地叹了口气。

‘Nothing, I need nothing,’ she said to Annushka, who was rearranging the bottles and brushes on the dressing table. ‘You can go. I’ll dress at once and come down. I need nothing.’
“没什么，我什么都不需要，”她对正在整理梳妆台上的瓶子和刷子的安努什卡说道。 '你可以走了。我马上穿好衣服就下来。我什么都不需要。

Annushka went out, but Anna did not begin dressing, and sat in the same position, her head and hands hanging listlessly, and every now and then she shivered all over, seemed as though she would make some gesture, utter some word, and sank back into lifelessness again. She repeated continually, ‘My God! my God!’ But neither ‘God’ nor ‘my’ had any meaning to her. The idea of seeking help in her difficulty in religion was as remote from her as seeking help from Alexey Alexandrovitch himself, although she had never had doubts of the faith in which she had been brought up. She knew that the support of religion was possible only upon condition of renouncing what made up for her the whole meaning of life. She was not simply miserable, she began to feel alarm at the new spiritual condition, never experienced before, in which she found herself. She felt as though everything were beginning to be double in her soul, just as objects sometimes appear double to over-tired eyes. She hardly knew at times what it was she feared, and what she hoped for. Whether she feared or desired what had happened, or what was going to happen, and exactly what she longed for, she could not have said.
安努舒卡出去了，安娜却没有开始穿衣，还是保持着同样的姿势，头和手无精打采地垂着，时不时浑身发抖，似乎要做出什么手势，说些什么，然后就沉了下去。再次回到死气沉沉的状态。她不断地重复着：“天哪！我的上帝！”但是“上帝”和“我的”对她来说都没有任何意义。尽管她从未怀疑过自己从小到大的信仰，但在宗教上遇到困难时寻求帮助的想法与她向阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇本人寻求帮助一样遥远。她知道，只有放弃构成她生命全部意义的东西，宗教的支持才有可能。她不仅仅是痛苦，她还开始对自己以前从未经历过的新的精神状况感到震惊。她感觉灵魂中的一切都开始变得双重起来，就像物体有时在过度疲劳的眼睛看来是双重的一样。她有时几乎不知道自己害怕什么，希望什么。无论她害怕还是渴望已经发生的事情，或者将要发生的事情，以及她到底渴望什么，她都说不出来。

‘Ah, what am I doing!’ she said to herself, feeling a sudden thrill of pain in both sides of her head. When she came to herself, she saw that she was holding her hair in both hands, each side of her temples, and pulling it. She jumped up, and began walking about.
“啊，我在做什么！”她自言自语，突然感到头部两侧一阵剧痛。当她清醒过来时，发现她双手抓着太阳穴两侧的头发，用力拉扯。她跳了起来，开始四处走动。

‘The coffee is ready, and mademoiselle and Seryozha are waiting,’ said Annushka, coming back again and finding Anna in the same position.
“咖啡已经准备好了，小姐和谢廖扎正在等待。”安努什卡说道，她又回来了，发现安娜也处于同样的位置。

‘Seryozha? What about Seryozha?’ Anna asked, with sudden eagerness, recollecting her son’s existence for the first time that morning.
‘谢廖扎？ “谢廖扎呢？”安娜突然急切地问道，那天早上她第一次回忆起儿子的存在。

‘He’s been naughty, I think,’ answered Annushka with a smile.
“我认为他很顽皮，”安努什卡微笑着回答。

‘In what way?’
“以什么方式？”

‘Some peaches were lying on the table in the corner room. I think he slipped in and ate one of them on the sly.’
“角落房间的桌子上放着一些桃子。我认为他溜进去偷偷吃了其中一个。

The recollection of her son suddenly roused Anna from the helpless condition in which she found herself. She recalled the partly sincere, though greatly exaggerated, role of the mother living for her child, which she had taken up of late years, and she felt with joy that in the plight in which she found herself she had a support, quite apart from her relation to her husband or to Vronsky. This support was her son. In whatever position she might be placed, she could not lose her son. Her husband might put her to shame and turn her out, Vronsky might grow cold to her and go on living his own life apart (she thought of him again with bitterness and reproach); she could not leave her son. She had an aim in life. And she must act; act to secure this relation to her son, so that he might not be taken from her. Quickly indeed, as quickly as possible, she must take action before he was taken from her. She must take her son and go away. Here was the one thing she had to do now. She needed consolation. She must be calm, and get out of this insufferable position. The thought of immediate action binding her to her son, of going away somewhere with him, gave her this consolation.
想起儿子，安娜突然从无助的处境中惊醒。她回忆起近年来她为孩子而活的母亲所扮演的角色，虽然有些真诚，但有些夸张，她高兴地感到，在她发现自己陷入困境时，她得到了支持，除了她与丈夫或渥伦斯基的关系。这个支持者就是她的儿子。无论她处于什么位置，她都不能失去儿子。她的丈夫可能会让她蒙羞并把她赶出去，渥伦斯基可能会对她冷淡并继续过着自己的生活（她再次想起他时会感到痛苦和责备）；她不能离开她的儿子。她有一个人生目标。她必须采取行动；采取行动确保与她儿子的关系，这样他就不会被从她身边夺走。事实上，她必须尽快采取行动，以免他被从她身边夺走。她必须带着她的儿子离开。这是她现在必须做的一件事。她需要安慰。她必须冷静，摆脱这种难以忍受的境地。一想到要立即采取行动将她与儿子联系在一起，和他一起去某个地方，她就得到了安慰。

She dressed quickly, went downstairs, and with resolute steps walked into the drawing room, where she found, as usual, waiting for her, the coffee, Seryozha, and his governess. Seryozha, all in white, with his back and head bent, was standing at a table under a looking-glass, and with an expression of intense concentration which she knew well, and in which he resembled his father, he was doing something to the flowers he carried.
她迅速穿好衣服，下楼，迈着坚定的步伐走进客厅，发现咖啡、谢廖扎和他的家庭女教师，像往常一样在等她。谢廖扎一身白衣，低着背，低着头，站在镜子下的桌子旁，脸上带着一种她很熟悉的全神贯注的表情，他的表情很像他的父亲，他正在对孩子们做某事。他带着鲜花。

The governess had a particularly severe expression. Seryozha screamed shrilly, as he often did, ‘Ah, mamma!’ and stopped, hesitating whether to go to greet his mother and put down the flowers, or to finish making the wreath and go with the flowers.
家庭教师的表情特别严肃。谢廖扎像往常一样尖叫起来，“啊，妈妈！”然后停了下来，犹豫着是去迎接他的母亲并放下鲜花，还是完成花圈并带着鲜花离开。

The governess, after saying good-morning, began a long and detailed account of Seryozha’s naughtiness, but Anna did not hear her; she was considering whether she would take her with her or not. ‘No, I won’t take her,’ she decided. ‘I’ll go alone with my child.’
家庭女教师道完早安后，开始详细地讲述谢廖扎的淘气行为，但安娜没有听见。她正在考虑要不要带她一起去。 “不，我不会带她去，”她决定。 “我一个人带着孩子去。”

‘Yes, it’s very wrong,’ said Anna, and taking her son by the shoulder she looked at him, not severely, but with a timid glance that bewildered and delighted the boy, and she kissed him. ‘Leave him to me,’ she said to the astonished governess, and not letting go of her son, she sat down at the table, where coffee was set ready for her.
“是的，这是非常错误的，”安娜说，她抓住儿子的肩膀看着他，不是严厉地，而是用一种胆怯的眼神，这让男孩既困惑又高兴，然后她吻了他。 “把他留给我吧，”她对惊讶的家庭女教师说，并没有放开她的儿子，在桌边坐下，那里已经为她准备好了咖啡。

‘Mamma! I...I...didn’t...’ he said, trying to make out from her expression what was in store for him in regard to the peaches.
'妈妈！我……我……没有……”他说，试图从她的表情中看出他对桃子的期待。

‘Seryozha,’ she said, as soon as the governess had left the room, ‘that was wrong, but you’ll never do it again, will you?... You love me?’
“谢廖扎，”家庭女教师一离开房间，她就说道，“那是错误的，但你再也不会这样做了，是吗？……你爱我吗？”

She felt that the tears were coming into her eyes. ‘Can I help loving him?’ she said to herself, looking deeply into his scared and at the same time delighted eyes. ‘And can he ever join his father in punishing me? Is it possible he will not feel for me?’ Tears were already flowing down her face, and to hide them she got up abruptly and almost ran out on to the terrace.
她感觉泪水涌进了眼眶。 “我能不爱他吗？”她自言自语，深深地看着他既害怕又高兴的眼睛。 “他能和他父亲一起惩罚我吗？”难道他不会对我有感觉吗？”泪水已经从她的脸上流了下来，为了掩饰它们，她猛地站起来，几乎跑到了露台上。

After the thunder showers of the last few days, cold, bright weather had set in. The air was cold in the bright sun that filtered through the freshly washed leaves.
前几天的雷阵雨过后，天气又冷又晴。明媚的阳光透过刚洗过的树叶照射进来，空气里很冷。

She shivered, both from the cold and from the inward horror which had clutched her with fresh force in the open air.
她浑身发抖，既因为寒冷，也因为内心的恐惧，这种恐惧在户外用新鲜的力量紧紧地抓住了她。

‘Run along, run along to Mariette,’ she said to Seryozha, who had followed her out, and she began walking up and down on the straw matting of the terrace. ‘Can it be that they won’t forgive me, won’t understand how it all couldn’t be helped?’ she said to herself.
“快跑，快跑到玛丽埃特那里去。”她对跟着她出去的谢廖扎说道，然后她开始在露台的草席上走来走去。 “难道他们不会原谅我，不会理解这一切都是无药可救的吗？”她自言自语道。

Standing still, and looking at the tops of the aspen trees waving in the wind, with their freshly washed, brightly shining leaves in the cold sunshine, she knew that they would not forgive her, that everyone and everything would be merciless to her now as was that sky, that green. And again she felt that everything was split in two in her soul. ‘I mustn’t, mustn’t think,’ she said to herself. ‘I must get ready. To go where? When? Whom to take with me? Yes, to Moscow by the evening train. Annushka and Seryozha, and only the most necessary things. But first I must write to them both.’ She went quickly indoors into her boudoir, sat down at the table, and wrote to her husband:—‘After what has happened, I cannot remain any longer in your house. I am going away, and taking my son with me. I don’t know the law, and so I don’t know with which of the parents the son should remain; but I take him with me because I cannot live without him. Be generous, leave him to me.’
静静地站着，看着白杨树梢在风中摇曳，刚洗过的叶子在寒冷的阳光下闪闪发亮，她知道他们不会原谅她，所有人、所有事都会对她无情。那是天空，那绿色。她再次感到灵魂中的一切都被一分为二。 “我不能，不能想，”她对自己说。 ‘我必须做好准备。去哪里？什么时候？我该带谁去？是的，乘晚间火车到莫斯科。安努什卡（Annushka）和谢廖扎（Seryozha），只有最必要的东西。但首先我必须给他们俩写信。”她迅速走进自己的闺房，在桌旁坐下，写信给她的丈夫：“发生了这件事之后，我不能再留在你家里了。我要走了，带着我的儿子。我不懂法律，所以我不知道儿子应该留在父母的哪一方；但我把他带在身边，因为没有他我就活不下去。慷慨点，把他留给我吧。

Up to this point she wrote rapidly and naturally, but the appeal to his generosity, a quality she did not recognize in him, and the necessity of winding up the letter with something touching, pulled her up. ‘Of my fault and my remorse I cannot speak, because...’
到目前为止，她写得又快又自然，但对他的慷慨的诉求，她在他身上没有认识到的品质，以及用一些感人的内容结束这封信的必要性，让她振作起来。 “我无法说出我的过错和悔恨，因为……”

She stopped again, finding no connection in her ideas. ‘No,’ she said to herself, ‘there’s no need of anything,’ and tearing up the letter, she wrote it again, leaving out the allusion to generosity, and sealed it up.
她再次停了下来，发现自己的想法没有任何联系。 “不，”她对自己说，“什么都不需要。”然后她把信撕了，又写了一遍，省略了慷慨的暗示，然后把它密封起来。

Another letter had to be written to Vronsky. ‘I have told my husband,’ she wrote, and she sat a long while unable to write more. It was so coarse, so unfeminine. ‘And what more am I to write to him?’ she said to herself. Again a flush of shame spread over her face; she recalled his composure, and a feeling of anger against him impelled her to tear the sheet with the phrase she had written into tiny bits. ‘No need of anything,’ she said to herself, and closing her blotting-case she went upstairs, told the governess and the servants that she was going that day to Moscow, and at once set to work to pack up her things.
还得写一封信给渥伦斯基。 “我已经告诉我丈夫了，”她写道，然后她坐了很长时间无法再写下去。它是如此粗俗，如此不女性化。 “我还要给他写什么呢？”她自言自语道。她的脸上再次泛起羞愧的红晕。她回想起他的镇静，一种对他的愤怒感促使她把写着这句话的纸撕成碎片。 “不需要任何东西，”她对自己说，然后合上吸墨盒，上楼告诉家庭女教师和仆人，她今天要去莫斯科，然后立即开始收拾东西。

Chapter 16
第16章

All the rooms of the summer villa were full of porters, gardeners, and footmen going to and fro carrying out things. Cupboards and chests were open; twice they had sent to the shop for cord; pieces of newspaper were tossing about on the floor. Two trunks, some bags and strapped-up rugs, had been carried down into the hall. The carriage and two hired cabs were waiting at the steps. Anna, forgetting her inward agitation in the work of packing, was standing at a table in her boudoir, packing her traveling bag, when Annushka called her attention to the rattle of some carriage driving up. Anna looked out of the window and saw Alexey Alexandrovitch’s courier on the steps, ringing at the front door bell.
避暑别墅的所有房间里都挤满了搬运工、园丁和男仆，来来往往地搬运着东西。橱柜和箱子都是开着的；他们两次派人去商店买绳子；报纸碎片在地板上乱扔。两个箱子、一些袋子和绑起来的地毯被搬进了大厅。马车和两辆租来的出租车已经等在台阶上了。安娜忘记了收拾行李的内心烦躁，她正站在闺房的一张桌子旁收拾旅行包，这时安努什卡提醒她注意一辆驶来的马车的嘎嘎声。安娜向窗外望去，看到阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇的信使站在台阶上，按响了前门的门铃。

‘Run and find out what it is,’ she said, and with a calm sense of being prepared for anything, she sat down in a low chair, folding her hands on her knees. A footman brought in a thick packet directed in Alexey Alexandrovitch’s hand.
“跑去看看那是什么，”她说，带着一种做好一切准备的平静感觉，她坐在一张矮椅子上，双手交叉放在膝盖上。一名男仆送来了阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇手里的一个厚厚的包裹。

‘The courier has orders to wait for an answer,’ he said.
他说：“快递员接到命令等待答复。”

‘Very well,’ she said, and as soon as he had left the room she tore open the letter with trembling fingers. A roll of unfolded notes done up in a wrapper fell out of it. She disengaged the letter and began reading it at the end. ‘Preparations shall be made for your arrival here...I attach particular significance to compliance...’ she read. She ran on, then back, read it all through, and once more read the letter all through again from the beginning. When she had finished, she felt that she was cold all over, and that a fearful calamity, such as she had not expected, had burst upon her.
“很好，”她说，他一离开房间，她就用颤抖的手指撕开了信。一卷用包装纸展开的纸币从里面掉了出来。她把信拆开，开始读最后的内容。 “将为您抵达这里做好准备……我特别重视遵守规定……”她读道。她继续跑，然后又回来，把信通读一遍，又从头把信读了一遍。说完，她只觉得浑身发冷，一场可怕的灾难，出乎她的意料，向她袭来。

In the morning she had regretted that she had spoken to her husband, and wished for nothing so much as that those words could be unspoken. And here this letter regarded them as unspoken, and gave her what she had wanted. But now this letter seemed to her more awful than anything she had been able to conceive.
早上，她后悔自己跟丈夫说过话，最希望的就是那些话能不说出来。而这封信却把他们视为无言以对，给了她想要的东西。但现在这封信对她来说似乎比她所能想象的任何事情都更可怕。

‘He’s right!’ she said; ‘of course, he’s always right; he’s a Christian, he’s generous! Yes, vile, base creature! And no one understands it except me, and no one ever will; and I can’t explain it. They say he’s so religious, so high-principled, so upright, so clever; but they don’t see what I’ve seen. They don’t know how he has crushed my life for eight years, crushed everything that was living in me—he has not once even thought that I’m a live woman who must have love. They don’t know how at every step he’s humiliated me, and been just as pleased with himself. Haven’t I striven, striven with all my strength, to find something to give meaning to my life? Haven’t I struggled to love him, to love my son when I could not love my husband? But the time came when I knew that I couldn’t cheat myself any longer, that I was alive, that I was not to blame, that God has made me so that I must love and live. And now what does he do? If he’d killed me, if he’d killed him, I could have borne anything, I could have forgiven anything; but, no, he.... How was it I didn’t guess what he would do? He’s doing just what’s characteristic of his mean character. He’ll keep himself in the right, while me, in my ruin, he’ll drive still lower to worse ruin yet...’
“他是对的！”她说。 “当然，他总是对的；他是基督徒，他很慷慨！是的，卑鄙卑鄙的生物！除了我之外，没有人能理解它，而且永远也没有人会理解；我无法解释。他们说他是那么虔诚，那么高尚，那么正直，那么聪明；但他们看不到我所看到的。他们不知道八年来他是如何碾压我的生活，碾碎我内心的一切——他甚至没有想过我是一个活生生的女人，必须有爱。他们不知道他每一步都在羞辱我，却又对自己感到满意。我难道没有竭尽全力地努力去寻找一些让我的生活有意义的东西吗？当我无法爱我的丈夫时，我难道没有努力去爱他、爱我的儿子吗？但那一刻到来了，我知道我不能再欺骗自己了，我还活着，我不应该受到责备，上帝创造了我，所以我必须去爱和生活。现在他做什么呢？如果他杀了我，如果他杀了他，我可以忍受任何事情，我可以原谅任何事情；但是，不，他……我怎么没有猜到他会做什么？他所做的正是他卑鄙性格的特征。他会保持自己在右边，而我，在我的毁灭中，他会开得更低，走向更糟糕的毁灭……”

She recalled the words from the letter. ‘You can conjecture what awaits you and your son....’ ‘That’s a threat to take away my child, and most likely by their stupid law he can. But I know very well why he says it. He doesn’t believe even in my love for my child, or he despises it (just as he always used to ridicule it). He despises that feeling in me, but he knows that I won’t abandon my child, that I can’t abandon my child, that there could be no life for me without my child, even with him whom I love; but that if I abandoned my child and ran away from him, I should be acting like the most infamous, basest of women. He knows that, and knows that I am incapable of doing that.’
她想起了信中的话。 “你可以猜测等待着你和你儿子的是什么……”“这是要带走我孩子的威胁，而且很可能根据他们愚蠢的法律，他可以这么做。”但我很清楚他为什么这么说。他甚至不相信我对我孩子的爱，或者他鄙视它（就像他总是嘲笑它一样）。他鄙视我的这种感觉，但他知道我不会抛弃我的孩子，我不能抛弃我的孩子，没有我的孩子我就无法生活，即使和我所爱的他在一起；但如果我抛弃我的孩子并逃离他，我就会像最臭名昭著、最卑鄙的女人一样。他知道这一点，也知道我没有能力做到这一点。

She recalled another sentence in the letter. ‘Our life must go on as it has done in the past....’ ‘That life was miserable enough in the old days; it has been awful of late. What will it be now? And he knows all that; he knows that I can’t repent that I breathe, that I love; he knows that it can lead to nothing but lying and deceit; but he wants to go on torturing me. I know him; I know that he’s at home and is happy in deceit, like a fish swimming in the water. No, I won’t give him that happiness. I’ll break through the spiderweb of lies in which he wants to catch me, come what may. Anything’s better than lying and deceit.
她想起了信中的另一句话。 “我们的生活必须像过去那样继续下去……”最近的情况很糟糕。现在会怎样？他知道这一切；他知道我无法后悔我的呼吸、我的爱；他知道这只会导致说谎和欺骗；但他想继续折磨我。我认识他;我知道他在家，乐于欺骗，如鱼游水。不，我不会给他那样的幸福。无论发生什么，我都会冲破他想要抓住我的谎言蜘蛛网。任何事情都比说谎和欺骗更好。

‘But how? My God! my God! Was ever a woman so miserable as I am?...’
‘但是怎么办呢？我的上帝！我的上帝！曾经有过像我这样悲惨的女人吗？

‘No; I will break through it, I will break through it!’ she cried, jumping up and keeping back her tears. And she went to the writing table to write him another letter. But at the bottom of her heart she felt that she was not strong enough to break through anything, that she was not strong enough to get out of her old position, however false and dishonorable it might be.
'不;我会突破它，我会突破它！”她哭着跳了起来，强忍着泪水。她走到写字台前又给他写了一封信。但她心底却觉得，自己还不够强大，无法突破任何事情，还不够强大，无法摆脱原来的地位，无论它多么虚假、多么不光彩。

She sat down at the writing table, but instead of writing she clasped her hands on the table, and, laying her head on them, burst into tears, with sobs and heaving breast like a child crying. She was weeping that her dream of her position being made clear and definite had been annihilated forever. She knew beforehand that everything would go on in the old way, and far worse, indeed, than in the old way. She felt that the position in the world that she enjoyed, and that had seemed to her of so little consequence in the morning, that this position was precious to her, that she would not have the strength to exchange it for the shameful position of a woman who has abandoned husband and child to join her lover; that however much she might struggle, she could not be stronger than herself. She would never know freedom in love, but would remain forever a guilty wife, with the menace of detection hanging over her at every instant; deceiving her husband for the sake of a shameful connection with a man living apart and away from her, whose life she could never share. She knew that this was how it would be, and at the same time it was so awful that she could not even conceive what it would end in. And she cried without restraint, as children cry when they are punished.
她在写字台前坐下，但没有写字，而是双手抱在桌子上，头枕在双手上，放声大哭，像孩子一样哭泣，胸脯起伏。她哭泣着，因为她的立场被明确化的梦想永远破灭了。她事先就知道一切都会按照原来的方式进行，而且确实比原来的方式更糟糕。她觉得她在这个世界上所享有的地位，早上对她来说似乎无关紧要，这个地位对她来说很珍贵，她没有力量去交换一个可耻的地位。抛弃丈夫和孩子去与情人团聚的女人；无论她如何挣扎，她都不可能比自己更强大。她永远不会在爱情中体会到自由，而永远是一个有罪的妻子，时时刻刻都面临着被发现的威胁。为了与一个与她分居、远离她的男人建立可耻的联系而欺骗她的丈夫，而她永远无法分享他的生活。她知道事情会是这样，同时又太可怕了，她甚至无法想象结果会怎样。她放声大哭，就像孩子们受到惩罚时的哭声一样。

The sound of the footman’s steps forced her to rouse herself, and, hiding her face from him, she pretended to be writing.
仆人的脚步声迫使她惊醒，她掩起脸假装在写字。

‘The courier asks if there’s an answer,’ the footman announced.
“快递员询问是否有答复，”男仆宣布。

‘An answer? Yes,’ said Anna. ‘Let him wait. I’ll ring.’
'一个答案？是的，”安娜说。 ‘让他等一下。我会按铃。

‘What can I write?’ she thought. ‘What can I decide upon alone? What do I know? What do I want? What is there I care for?’ Again she felt that her soul was beginning to be split in two. She was terrified again at this feeling, and clutched at the first pretext for doing something which might divert her thoughts from herself. ‘I ought to see Alexey’ (so she called Vronsky in her thoughts); ‘no one but he can tell me what I ought to do. I’ll go to Betsy’s, perhaps I shall see him there,’ she said to herself, completely forgetting that when she had told him the day before that she was not going to Princess Tverskaya’s, he had said that in that case he should not go either. She went up to the table, wrote to her husband, ‘I have received your letter. —A.’; and, ringing the bell, gave it to the footman.
“我能写什么？”她想。 ‘我一个人能决定什么？我知道什么？我想要什么？我在乎什么？”她再次感到自己的灵魂开始分裂成两半。她再次对这种感觉感到恐惧，并抓住第一个借口去做一些可能会转移她的注意力的事情。 “我应该去见阿列克谢”（她在心里这样称呼渥伦斯基）； ‘除了他，没有人能告诉我应该做什么。我会去贝特西家，也许我会在那里见到他，”她对自己说，完全忘记了前一天她告诉他她不去特维尔斯卡娅公主家时，他说过如果那样的话他就不应该去。要么去。她走到桌边，写信给她的丈夫：“我收到了你的信。 -A。';然后按响了门铃，把它交给了仆人。

‘We are not going,’ she said to Annushka, as she came in.
“我们不会去，”她进来时对安努什卡说。

‘Not going at all?’
“根本不去吗？”

‘No; don’t unpack till tomorrow, and let the carriage wait. I’m going to the princess’s.’
'不;明天才拆包，让马车等一下。我要去公主家。”

‘Which dress am I to get ready?’
“我要准备哪件衣服？”

Chapter 17
第17章

The croquet party to which the Princess Tverskaya had invited Anna was to consist of two ladies and their adorers. These two ladies were the chief representatives of a select new Petersburg circle, nicknamed, in imitation of some imitation, les sept merveilles du monde. These ladies belonged to a circle which, though of the highest society, was utterly hostile to that in which Anna moved. Moreover, Stremov, one of the most influential people in Petersburg, and the elderly admirer of Liza Merkalova, was Alexey Alexandrovitch’s enemy in the political world. From all these considerations Anna had not meant to go, and the hints in Princess Tverskaya’s note referred to her refusal. But now Anna was eager to go, in the hope of seeing Vronsky.
特维尔公主邀请安娜参加的槌球派对由两位女士和她们的崇拜者组成。这两位女士是圣彼得堡一个新圈子的主要代表，这个圈子模仿某种模仿的绰号，被称为“世界七月”。这些女士所属的圈子虽然属于上流社会，但对安娜所在的圈子却完全怀有敌意。此外，斯特列莫夫是彼得堡最有影响力的人物之一，也是丽莎·梅尔卡洛娃的老崇拜者，也是阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇在政界的敌人。出于所有这些考虑，安娜并不打算去，特维尔斯卡娅公主的便条中也暗示了她的拒绝。但现在安娜迫不及待地想去，希望能见到渥伦斯基。

Anna arrived at Princess Tverskaya’s earlier than the other guests.
安娜比其他客人更早到达特维尔公主的家。

At the same moment as she entered, Vronsky’s footman, with side-whiskers combed out like a Kammerjunker, went in too. He stopped at the door, and, taking off his cap, let her pass. Anna recognized him, and only then recalled that Vronsky had told her the day before that he would not come. Most likely he was sending a note to say so.
在她进来的同时，渥伦斯基的男仆也走了进去，他的鬓胡子像一个卡默军士一样梳得干干净净。他在门口停下来，摘下帽子，让她过去。安娜认出了他，这才想起渥伦斯基前一天告诉她他不会来。他很可能是发了一张便条来这么说。

As she took off her outer garment in the hall, she heard the footman, pronouncing his ‘r’s’ even like a Kammerjunker, say, ‘From the count for the princess,’ and hand the note.
当她在大厅里脱下外衣时，她听到男仆甚至像卡默军客一样发出“r”的声音，说：“来自伯爵的公主”，然后递出了纸条。

She longed to question him as to where his master was. She longed to turn back and send him a letter to come and see her, or to go herself to see him. But neither the first nor the second nor the third course was possible. Already she heard bells ringing to announce her arrival ahead of her, and Princess Tverskaya’s footman was standing at the open door waiting for her to go forward into the inner rooms.
她很想问问他，他的主人在哪里。她渴望回去给他写封信，让他来看她，或者亲自去见他。但第一门、第二门、第三门都不可能。她已经听到铃声响起，宣布她在她前面到达，特维尔斯卡娅公主的男仆站在敞开的门前，等待她进入内室。

‘The princess is in the garden; they will inform her immediately. Would you be pleased to walk into the garden?’ announced another footman in another room.
“公主在花园里；他们会立即通知她。 “您愿意走进花园吗？”另一个房间里的另一名男仆说道。

The position of uncertainty, of indecision, was still the same as at home—worse, in fact, since it was impossible to take any step, impossible to see Vronsky, and she had to remain here among outsiders, in company so uncongenial to her present mood. But she was wearing a dress that she knew suited her. She was not alone; all around was that luxurious setting of idleness that she was used to, and she felt less wretched than at home. She was not forced to think what she was to do. Everything would be done of itself. On meeting Betsy coming towards her in a white gown that struck her by its elegance, Anna smiled at her just as she always did. Princess Tverskaya was walking with Tushkevitch and a young lady, a relation, who, to the great joy of her parents in the provinces, was spending the summer with the fashionable princess.
不确定、优柔寡断的处境仍然和在家里一样——事实上，更糟糕的是，因为不可能采取任何步骤，不可能见到渥伦斯基，而她不得不留在外人中间，与她如此不合意的人在一起。目前的心情。但她穿着一件她知道适合她的衣服。她并不孤单。周围都是她所习惯的奢侈而闲散的环境，她感觉不像在家里那么悲惨。她没有被迫去思考她要做什么。一切都会自行完成。当贝特西穿着一袭优雅的白色礼服向她走来时，安娜像往常一样对她微笑。特维尔斯卡娅公主与图什克维奇和一位年轻的女士一起散步，她是一位亲戚，令她在外省的父母非常高兴，她正在与时尚的公主一起度过夏天。

There was probably something unusual about Anna, for Betsy noticed it at once.
安娜可能有什么不寻常的地方，因为贝特西立刻就注意到了。

‘I slept badly,’ answered Anna, looking intently at the footman who came to meet them, and, as she supposed, brought Vronsky’s note.
“我睡得很糟糕。”安娜回答道，她专注地看着迎面而来的男仆，正如她所想的，她带来了渥伦斯基的字条。

‘How glad I am you’ve come!’ said Betsy. ‘I’m tired, and was just longing to have some tea before they come. You might go’— she turned to Tushkevitch—‘with Masha, and try the croquet ground over there where they’ve been cutting it. We shall have time to talk a little over tea; we’ll have a cozy chat, eh?’ she said in English to Anna, with a smile, pressing the hand with which she held a parasol.
“我很高兴你能来！”贝特西说。 “我累了，只是想在他们来之前喝点茶。”你可以去”——她转向图什克维奇——“和玛莎一起去，试试他们正在切的槌球场。我们将有时间边喝茶边聊聊；我们会愉快地聊一聊，嗯？”她用英语对安娜微笑着说道，同时按住了她撑着阳伞的手。

‘Yes, especially as I can’t stay very long with you. I’m forced to go on to old Madame Vrede. I’ve been promising to go for a century,’ said Anna, to whom lying, alien as it was to her nature, had become not merely simple and natural in society, but a positive source of satisfaction. Why she said this, which she had not thought of a second before, she could not have explained. She had said it simply from the reflection that as Vronsky would not be here, she had better secure her own freedom, and try to see him somehow. But why she had spoken of old Madame Vrede, whom she had to go and see, as she had to see many other people, she could not have explained; and yet, as it afterwards turned out, had she contrived the most cunning devices to meet Vronsky, she could have thought of nothing better.
“是的，尤其是我不能和你待太久。我不得不继续去找老弗雷德夫人。我已经承诺要去一个世纪了。”安娜说，对她来说，撒谎虽然与她的天性格格不入，但在社会上不仅变得简单和自然，而且是一种积极的满足感源泉。为什么她会这么说，她之前没有想到，她也无法解释。她这么说只是出于考虑，既然渥伦斯基不会在这里，她最好确保自己的自由，并尝试以某种方式见到他。但为什么她要提到老弗雷德夫人，她必须去见她，就像她必须去见许多其他人一样，她无法解释；然而，后来的事实证明，即使她想出最狡猾的手段去见渥伦斯基，她也想不出更好的办法了。

‘No. I’m not going to let you go for anything,’ answered Betsy, looking intently into Anna’s face. ‘Really, if I were not fond of you, I should feel offended. One would think you were afraid my society would compromise you. Tea in the little dining room, please,’ she said, half closing her eyes, as she always did when addressing the footman.
'不。 “我不会放过你的。”贝特西专注地看着安娜的脸，回答道。 “真的，如果我不喜欢你，我会感到被冒犯。人们会认为你害怕我的社会会损害你。请到小餐厅喝茶，”她半闭着眼睛说道，就像她对男仆说话时总是做的那样。

Taking the note from him, she read it.
她接过他的纸条，读了一遍。

‘Alexey’s playing us false,’ she said in French; ‘he writes that he can’t come,’ she added in a tone as simple and natural as though it could never enter her head that Vronsky could mean anything more to Anna than a game of croquet. Anna knew that Betsy knew everything, but, hearing how she spoke of Vronsky before her, she almost felt persuaded for a minute that she knew nothing.
“阿列克谢在欺骗我们，”她用法语说道； “他写信说他不能来。”她用一种简单而自然的语气补充道，就好像她永远不会想到渥伦斯基对安娜来说除了一场槌球游戏之外还有什么意义。安娜知道贝特西什么都知道，但是，听到她在她面前谈论渥伦斯基时，她有那么一刻几乎觉得自己一无所知。

‘Ah!’ said Anna indifferently, as though not greatly interested in the matter, and she went on smiling: ‘How can you or your friends compromise anyone?’
“啊！”安娜淡淡地说，似乎对这件事不太感兴趣，她继续微笑：“你或你的朋友怎么能妥协任何人呢？”

This playing with words, this hiding of a secret, had a great fascination for Anna, as, indeed, it has for all women. And it was not the necessity of concealment, not the aim with which the concealment was contrived, but the process of concealment itself which attracted her.
这种文字游戏，这种隐藏秘密，对安娜来说有着极大的吸引力，事实上，对所有女人来说也是如此。吸引她的并不是隐藏的必要性，也不是隐藏的目的，而是隐藏的过程本身。

‘I can’t be more Catholic than the Pope,’ she said. ‘Stremov and Liza Merkalova, why, they’re the cream of the cream of society. Besides, they’re received everywhere, and I’—she laid special stress on the I—‘have never been strict and intolerant. It’s simply that I haven’t the time.’
“我不可能比教皇更虔诚，”她说。 “斯特列莫夫和丽莎·梅尔卡洛娃，他们是社会精英中的精英。此外，他们在任何地方都受到欢迎，而我——她特别强调了“我”——“从来都不是严格和不宽容的。只是我没有时间。

‘No; you don’t care, perhaps, to meet Stremov? Let him and Alexey Alexandrovitch tilt at each other in the committee— that’s no affair of ours. But in the world, he’s the most amiable man I know, and a devoted croquet player. You shall see. And, in spite of his absurd position as Liza’s lovesick swain at his age, you ought to see how he carries off the absurd position. He’s very nice. Sappho Shtoltz you don’t know? Oh, that’s a new type, quite new.’
'不;也许你不想见斯特列莫夫？让他和阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇在委员会里互相攻击吧——那不关我们的事。但在世界上，他是我认识的最和蔼可亲的人，也是一位忠实的槌球运动员。你将会看到。而且，尽管他在这个年纪担任莉莎的相思病情人的荒谬地位，但你应该看看他是如何实现这一荒谬地位的。他很好。萨福·施托尔茨你不认识吗？哦，这是一种新类型，相当新。

Betsy said all this, and, at the same time, from her good-humored, shrewd glance, Anna felt that she partly guessed her plight, and was hatching something for her benefit. They were in the little boudoir.
贝特西说了这一切，同时，从她幽默而精明的眼神中，安娜觉得她部分地猜到了她的困境，并且正在为她谋划一些有利的事情。他们在小闺房里。

‘I must write to Alexey though,’ and Betsy sat down to the table, scribbled a few lines, and put the note in an envelope.
“不过我必须写信给阿列克谢，”贝特西坐在桌边，潦草地写了几行字，然后把纸条放进一个信封里。

‘I’m telling him to come to dinner. I’ve one lady extra to dinner with me, and no man to take her in. Look what I’ve said, will that persuade him? Excuse me, I must leave you for a minute. Would you seal it up, please, and send it off?’ she said from the door; ‘I have to give some directions.’
“我要叫他来吃晚饭。我多了一位女士和我一起吃饭，却没有一个男人可以接待她。看看我说的，能说服他吗？对不起，我必须离开你一会儿。请你把它密封起来然后寄出去好吗？”她在门口说道。 “我必须给出一些指示。”

Without a moment’s thought, Anna sat down to the table with Betsy’s letter, and, without reading it, wrote below: ‘It’s essential for me to see you. Come to the Vrede garden. I shall be there at six o’clock.’ She sealed it up, and, Betsy coming back, in her presence handed the note to be taken.
安娜不假思索地拿着贝特西的信坐在桌边，没有阅读，就在下面写道：“我很高兴见到你。”来到Vrede花园。我六点钟会到那里。”她把信封好，贝特西回来后，当着她的面把纸条递给了我。

At tea, which was brought them on a little tea-table in the cool little drawing room, the cozy chat promised by Princess Tverskaya before the arrival of her visitors really did come off between the two women. They criticized the people they were expecting, and the conversation fell upon Liza Merkalova.
喝茶时，人们把她们放在凉爽的小客厅的小茶几上，特维尔斯卡娅公主在客人到来之前许诺的舒适聊天确实在这两个女人之间进行了。他们批评了他们所期待的人，谈话的话题落在了丽莎·梅尔卡洛娃身上。

‘She’s very sweet, and I always liked her,’ said Anna.
“她非常可爱，我一直很喜欢她，”安娜说。

‘You ought to like her. She raves about you. Yesterday she came up to me after the races and was in despair at not finding you. She says you’re a real heroine of romance, and that if she were a man she would do all sorts of mad things for your sake. Stremov says she does that as it is.’
‘你应该喜欢她。她对你赞不绝口。昨天，她在比赛结束后来找我，因为找不到你而感到绝望。她说你是真正的浪漫女主角，如果她是个男人，她会为了你做各种疯狂的事情。斯特雷莫夫说她就是这样做的。

‘But do tell me, please, I never could make it out,’ said Anna, after being silent for some time, speaking in a tone that showed she was not asking an idle question, but that what she was asking was of more importance to her than it should have been; ‘do tell me, please, what are her relations with Prince Kaluzhsky, Mishka, as he’s called? I’ve met them so little. What does it mean?’
“但是请告诉我，拜托，我永远听不懂，”安娜沉默了一段时间后说道，她说话的语气表明她不是在问一个无聊的问题，而是她问的是更重要的问题对她来说不应该是这样； “请告诉我，她和卡卢日斯基王子，米什卡（他被称为米什卡）是什么关系？”我和他们的见面太少了。这是什么意思？'

Betsy smiled with her eyes, and looked intently at Anna.
贝琪眼含微笑，专注地看着安娜。

‘It’s a new manner,’ she said. ‘They’ve all adopted that manner. They’ve flung their caps over the windmills. But there are ways and ways of flinging them.’
“这是一种新方式，”她说。 ‘他们都采用了这种方式。他们把帽子扔到了风车上。但扔它们的方法和方法还是有的。

‘Yes, but what are her relations precisely with Kaluzhsky?’
“是的，但是她和卡卢日斯基到底是什么关系呢？”

Betsy broke into unexpectedly mirthful and irrepressible laughter, a thing which rarely happened with her.
贝特西突然爆发出令人愉快且难以抑制的笑声，这在她身上很少发生。

‘You’re encroaching on Princess Myakaya’s special domain now. That’s the question of an enfant terrible,’ and Betsy obviously tried to restrain herself, but could not, and went off into peals of that infectious laughter that people laugh who do not laugh often. ‘You’d better ask them,’ she brought out, between tears of laughter.
‘你现在正在侵犯米卡娅公主的特殊领地。这是一个可怕的孩子的问题，”贝特西显然试图克制自己，但无法克制，然后爆发出一种富有感染力的笑声，那些不经常笑的人也会笑。 “你最好问问他们，”她笑着说道。

‘No; you laugh,’ said Anna, laughing too in spite of herself, ‘but I never could understand it. I can’t understand the husband’s role in it.’
'不;你笑了，”安娜说，也不由自主地笑了，“但我永远无法理解。我无法理解丈夫在其中扮演的角色。

‘The husband? Liza Merkalova’s husband carries her shawl, and is always ready to be of use. But anything more than that in reality, no one cares to inquire. You know in decent society one doesn’t talk or think even of certain details of the toilet. That’s how it is with this.’
'丈夫？丽莎·梅尔卡洛娃 (Liza Merkalova) 的丈夫拿着她的披肩，随时准备派上用场。但事实上除此之外，没有人愿意去询问。你知道，在正派的社会里，人们甚至不会谈论或思考厕所的某些细节。事情就是这样。

‘Will you be at Madame Rolandak’s fete?’ asked Anna, to change the conversation.
“你会参加罗兰达克夫人的宴会吗？”安娜问道，以改变话题。

‘I don’t think so,’ answered Betsy, and, without looking at her friend, she began filling the little transparent cups with fragrant tea. Putting a cup before Anna, she took out a cigarette, and, fitting it into a silver holder, she lighted it.
“我不这么认为，”贝特西回答道，然后她没有看她的朋友，开始往透明的小杯子里倒满香茶。她把一个杯子放在安娜面前，拿出一根香烟，把它装进银烟嘴里，点着了。

‘It’s like this, you see: I’m in a fortunate position,’ she began, quite serious now, as she took up her cup. ‘I understand you, and I understand Liza. Liza now is one of those naive natures that, like children, don’t know what’s good and what’s bad. Anyway, she didn’t comprehend it when she was very young. And now she’s aware that the lack of comprehension suits her. Now, perhaps, she doesn’t know on purpose,’ said Betsy, with a subtle smile. ‘But, anyway, it suits her. The very same thing, don’t you see, may be looked at tragically, and turned into a misery, or it may be looked at simply and even humorously. Possibly you are inclined to look at things too tragically.’
“事情是这样的，你看：我处于一个幸运的位置，”她拿起杯子说道，现在很严肃。 “我理解你，我也理解丽莎。丽莎现在是那种天真的人之一，就像孩子一样，不知道什么是好什么是坏。反正她很小的时候就不懂。现在她意识到缺乏理解适合她。现在，也许她是故意不知道的。”贝特西带着微妙的微笑说道。 “但是，无论如何，这很适合她。你不明白吗，同样的事情可能会被悲惨地看待，并变成一种痛苦，或者可能会被简单地甚至幽默地看待。也许你倾向于把事情看得太悲惨。

‘How I should like to know other people just as I know myself!’ said Anna, seriously and dreamily. ‘Am I worse than other people, or better? I think I’m worse.’
“我多么想了解别人，就像了解自己一样！”安娜严肃而梦幻般地说。 ‘我比别人差还是比别人好？我想我更糟。

‘Enfant terrible, enfant terrible!’ repeated Betsy. ‘But here they are.’
“太糟糕了，太糟糕了！”贝特西重复道。 “但他们就在这里。”

Chapter 18
第18章

They heard the sound of steps and a man’s voice, then a woman’s voice and laughter, and immediately thereafter there walked in the expected guests: Sappho Shtoltz, and a young man beaming with excess of health, the so-called Vaska. It was evident that ample supplies of beefsteak, truffles, and Burgundy never failed to reach him at the fitting hour. Vaska bowed to the two ladies, and glanced at them, but only for one second. He walked after Sappho into the drawing-room, and followed her about as though he were chained to her, keeping his sparkling eyes fixed on her as though he wanted to eat her. Sappho Shtoltz was a blonde beauty with black eyes. She walked with smart little steps in high-heeled shoes, and shook hands with the ladies vigorously like a man.
他们听到脚步声和男人的声音，然后是女人的声音和笑声，紧接着，预期的客人走了进来：萨福·施托尔茨，还有一个笑容满面的年轻人，即所谓的瓦斯卡。显然，充足的牛排、松露和勃艮第葡萄酒总是会在适当的时间送到他手中。瓦斯卡向两位女士鞠了一躬，看了她们一眼，但只看了一秒钟。他跟着萨福走进客厅，跟在她身后，仿佛被锁链拴在她身上，他那双闪闪发光的眼睛盯着她，仿佛想吃掉她。萨福·施托尔茨（Sappho Shtoltz）是一位黑眼睛的金发美女。她穿着高跟鞋迈着潇洒的小步子，像个男人一样有力地与女士们握手。

Anna had never met this new star of fashion, and was struck by her beauty, the exaggerated extreme to which her dress was carried, and the boldness of her manners. On her head there was such a superstructure of soft, golden hair—her own and false mixed—that her head was equal in size to the elegantly rounded bust, of which so much was exposed in front. The impulsive abruptness of her movements was such that at every step the lines of her knees and the upper part of her legs were distinctly marked under her dress, and the question involuntarily rose to the mind where in the undulating, piled-up mountain of material at the back the real body of the woman, so small and slender, so naked in front, and so hidden behind and below, really came to an end.
安娜从未见过这位时尚新星，她的美丽、夸张的服饰以及大胆的举止给她留下了深刻的印象。她头上有一层柔软的金色头发——她自己的头发和假发混合在一起——以至于她的头与优雅的圆形半身像一样大，而她的半身像暴露在了前面。她动作的冲动如此突然，每走一步，她的膝盖和大腿上部的线条都在她的衣服下清晰可见，不由自主地浮现在脑海中的问题是，在起伏的、堆积如山的物质中，后面那女人的真身，那么娇小纤细，前面那么赤裸，后面下面藏得那么严实，真的到了尽头。

Betsy made haste to introduce her to Anna.
贝特西赶紧把她介绍给安娜。

‘Only fancy, we all but ran over two soldiers,’ she began telling them at once, using her eyes, smiling and twitching away her tail, which she flung back at one stroke all on one side. ‘I drove here with Vaska.... Ah, to be sure, you don’t know each other.’ And mentioning his surname she introduced the young man, and reddening a little, broke into a ringing laugh at her mistake—that is, at her having called him Vaska to a stranger. Vaska bowed once more to Anna, but he said nothing to her. He addressed Sappho: ‘You’ve lost your bet. We got here first. Pay up,’ said he, smiling.
“只是想象一下，我们差点撞倒了两个士兵。”她立刻开始用眼睛告诉他们，微笑着甩开尾巴，把尾巴全部甩到一边。 “我和瓦斯卡一起开车来这里……啊，当然，你们彼此不认识。”她提到了他的姓氏，介绍了那个年轻人，脸红了一点，对她的错误突然大笑起来——是因为她对一个陌生人称呼他瓦斯卡。瓦斯卡再次向安娜鞠了一躬，但他什么也没对她说。他对萨福说：“你输了。”我们先到这里。付钱吧。”他微笑着说道。

Sappho laughed still more festively.
萨福笑得更开心了。

‘Not just now,’ said she.
“不只是现在，”她说。

‘Oh, all right, I’ll have it later.’
“哦，好吧，我稍后再拿。”

‘Very well, very well. Oh, yes.’ She turned suddenly to Princess Betsy: ‘I am a nice person...I positively forgot it... I’ve brought you a visitor. And here he comes.’ The unexpected young visitor, whom Sappho had invited, and whom she had forgotten, was, however, a personage of such consequence that, in spite of his youth, both the ladies rose on his entrance.
‘很好，很好。哦，是的。”她突然转向贝特西公主：“我是一个好人……我完全忘记了……我给你带来了一位访客。他来了。”这位意想不到的年轻访客，是萨福邀请的，但她已经忘记了，然而，他是一位如此重要的人物，尽管他很年轻，两位女士在他进来时都站了起来。

He was a new admirer of Sappho’s. He now dogged her footsteps, like Vaska.
他是萨福的新崇拜者。他现在像瓦斯卡一样追随着她的脚步。

Soon after Prince Kaluzhsky arrived, and Liza Merkalova with Stremov. Liza Merkalova was a thin brunette, with an Oriental, languid type of face, and—as everyone used to say—exquisite enigmatic eyes. The tone of her dark dress (Anna immediately observed and appreciated the fact) was in perfect harmony with her style of beauty. Liza was as soft and enervated as Sappho was smart and abrupt.
卡卢日斯基王子抵达后不久，丽莎·梅尔卡洛娃和斯特列莫夫也抵达了。丽莎·梅尔卡洛娃是个瘦削的黑发女人，有着一张东方人慵懒的脸，还有——正如大家常说的——精致而神秘的眼睛。她深色连衣裙的色调（安娜立即观察到并欣赏这一事实）与她的美丽风格完美契合。丽莎温柔而虚弱，而萨福则聪明而唐突。

But to Anna’s taste Liza was far more attractive. Betsy had said to Anna that she had adopted the pose of an innocent child, but when Anna saw her, she felt that this was not the truth. She really was both innocent and corrupt, but a sweet and passive woman. It is true that her tone was the same as Sappho’s; that like Sappho, she had two men, one young and one old, tacked onto her, and devouring her with their eyes. But there was something in her higher than what surrounded her. There was in her the glow of the real diamond among glass imitations. This glow shone out in her exquisite, truly enigmatic eyes. The weary, and at the same time passionate, glance of those eyes, encircled by dark rings, impressed one by its perfect sincerity. Everyone looking into those eyes fancied he knew her wholly, and knowing her, could not but love her. At the sight of Anna, her whole face lighted up at once with a smile of delight.
但按照安娜的口味，丽莎更具吸引力。贝特西曾对安娜说过，她摆出了一副天真无邪的孩子的姿态，但当安娜看到她时，她觉得这不是事实。她确实是一个既天真又腐败，却又甜蜜又被动的女人。确实，她的语气和萨福是一样的。就像萨福一样，她有两个男人，一少一老，紧逼着她，用目光吞噬着她。但她内心有某种东西比她周围的东西更高。她身上散发着玻璃仿制品中真钻石的光芒。她那双精致而神秘的眼睛里闪烁着这种光芒。那双黑眼圈环绕的眼睛里充满了疲倦，同时又充满了热情，其完美的真诚给人留下了深刻的印象。每个看着那双眼睛的人都觉得他完全了解她，了解她，就无法不爱她。看到安娜，她整个脸上顿时绽放出欣喜的笑容。

‘Ah, how glad I am to see you!’ she said, going up to her. ‘Yesterday at the races all I wanted was to get to you, but you’d gone away. I did so want to see you, yesterday especially. Wasn’t it awful?’ she said, looking at Anna with eyes that seemed to lay bare all her soul.
“啊，见到你我真高兴！”她走到她面前说道。 “昨天在比赛时，我只想去找你，但你却走了。我真的很想见你，尤其是昨天。这不是很糟糕吗？”她看着安娜，眼神仿佛暴露了她的全部灵魂。

‘Yes; I had no idea it would be so thrilling,’ said Anna, blushing.
'是的; “我没想到会这么刺激。”安娜红着脸说道。

The company got up at this moment to go into the garden.
一行人这时候起身要往花园里走去。

‘I’m not going,’ said Liza, smiling and settling herself close to Anna. ‘You won’t go either, will you? Who wants to play croquet?’
“我不会去。”丽莎微笑着说道，靠近安娜坐了下来。 ‘你也不去，是吗？谁想玩槌球？

‘Oh, I like it,’ said Anna.
“哦，我喜欢它，”安娜说。

‘There, how do you manage never to be bored by things? It’s delightful to look at you. You’re alive, but I’m bored.’
‘那么，你是如何做到永远不会对事物感到无聊的呢？看着你真是令人高兴。你还活着，但我很无聊。

‘How can you be bored? Why, you live in the liveliest set in Petersburg,’ said Anna.
‘你怎么会无聊呢？哎呀，你住在彼得堡最热闹的地方，”安娜说。

‘Possibly the people who are not of our set are even more bored; but we—I certainly—are not happy, but awfully, awfully bored.’
“可能那些不属于我们圈子的人更无聊；但我们——我当然——并不高兴，而是非常非常无聊。

Sappho smoking a cigarette went off into the garden with the two young men. Betsy and Stremov remained at the tea-table.
萨福抽着烟和两个年轻人一起走进花园。贝特西和斯特列莫夫留在茶桌旁。

‘What, bored!’ said Betsy. ‘Sappho says they did enjoy themselves tremendously at your house last night.’
“什么，无聊！”贝特西说。 “萨福说他们昨晚在你家玩得很开心。”

‘Ah, how dreary it all was!’ said Liza Merkalova. ‘We all drove back to my place after the races. And always the same people, always the same. Always the same thing. We lounged about on sofas all the evening. What is there to enjoy in that? No; do tell me how you manage never to be bored?’ she said, addressing Anna again. ‘One has but to look at you and one sees, here’s a woman who may be happy or unhappy, but isn’t bored. Tell me how you do it?’
“啊，这一切是多么沉闷啊！”丽莎·梅尔卡洛娃说道。 “比赛结束后我们都开车回到我的住处。总是同样的人，总是一样的。总是同样的事情。我们整个晚上都在沙发上闲逛。这其中有什么可享受的呢？不;请告诉我你是如何做到永远不感到无聊的？”她再次对安娜说道。 “只要看着你，你就会发现，这是一个可能快乐或不快乐的女人，但她并不感到无聊。告诉我你是怎么做到的？

‘I do nothing,’ answered Anna, blushing at these searching questions.
“我什么也没做。”安娜回答道，面对这些尖锐的问题，脸红了。

‘That’s the best way,’ Stremov put in. Stremov was a man of fifty, partly gray, but still vigorous-looking, very ugly, but with a characteristic and intelligent face. Liza Merkalova was his wife’s niece, and he spent all his leisure hours with her. On meeting Anna Karenina, as he was Alexey Alexandrovitch’s enemy in the government, he tried, like a shrewd man and a man of the world, to be particularly cordial with her, the wife of his enemy.
“这是最好的办法，”斯特列莫夫插话道。斯特列莫夫是个五十岁的男人，头发有些灰白，但看上去仍然精力充沛，非常丑陋，但有一张独特而聪明的脸。丽莎·梅尔卡洛娃是他妻子的侄女，他所有的闲暇时间都和她一起度过。在见到安娜·卡列尼娜时，由于他是阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇在政府中的敌人，他像一个精明的人和一个世俗的人一样，试图对她这个敌人的妻子特别友善。

‘‘Nothing,’’ he put in with a subtle smile, ‘that’s the very best way. I told you long ago,’ he said, turning to Liza Merkalova, ‘that if you don’t want to be bored, you mustn’t think you’re going to be bored. It’s just as you mustn’t be afraid of not being able to fall asleep, if you’re afraid of sleeplessness. That’s just what Anna Arkadyevna has just said.’
“没什么，”他微笑着说道，“这是最好的办法。”我很久以前就告诉过你，”他转向丽莎·梅尔卡洛娃说道，“如果你不想感到无聊，你就不能认为自己会感到无聊。就像你害怕失眠就不必害怕睡不着一样。这正是安娜·阿尔卡季耶夫娜刚才所说的。

‘I should be very glad if I had said it, for it’s not only clever but true,’ said Anna, smiling.
“如果我这么说的话，我会很高兴，因为这不仅很聪明，而且很真实，”安娜微笑着说。

‘No, do tell me why it is one can’t go to sleep, and one can’t help being bored?’
“不，你告诉我为什么会睡不着，而且会忍不住感到无聊？”

‘To sleep well one ought to work, and to enjoy oneself one ought to work too.’
“要想睡得好，就应该工作；要想享受生活，就应该工作。”

‘What am I to work for when my work is no use to anybody? And I can’t and won’t knowingly make a pretense about it.’
‘当我的工作对任何人都没有用处时，我还要工作做什么？我不能也不会故意假装这一点。

‘You’re incorrigible,’ said Stremov, not looking at her, and he spoke again to Anna. As he rarely met Anna, he could say nothing but commonplaces to her, but he said those commonplaces as to when she was returning to Petersburg, and how fond Countess Lidia Ivanovna was of her, with an expression which suggested that he longed with his whole soul to please her and show his regard for her and even more than that.
“你已经无可救药了，”斯特列莫夫说，没有看她，然后他又对安娜说话。由于他很少见到安娜，所以他只能对她说一些平常的话，但他说了一些平常的话，比如她什么时候回到彼得堡，以及莉迪亚·伊万诺芙娜伯爵夫人对她的喜爱程度，他的表情表明他渴望与他的整个人在一起。灵魂取悦她并表达他对她的尊重，甚至更多。

Tushkevitch came in, announcing that the party were awaiting the other players to begin croquet.
图什克维奇进来了，宣布大家正在等待其他选手开始槌球比赛。

‘No, don’t go away, please don’t,’ pleaded Liza Merkalova, hearing that Anna was going. Stremov joined in her entreaties.
“不，不要走，请不要走，”丽莎·梅尔卡洛娃听到安娜要走后恳求道。斯特列莫夫也加入了她的恳求。

‘It’s too violent a transition,’ he said, ‘to go from such company to old Madame Vrede. And besides, you will only give her a chance for talking scandal, while here you arouse none but such different feelings of the highest and most opposite kind,’ he said to her.
“从这样的公司到老弗雷德夫人，这种转变太剧烈了，”他说。而且，你只会给她一个谈论丑闻的机会，而在这里你只会激起这种最高和最相反的不同感觉，”他对她说。

Anna pondered for an instant in uncertainty. This shrewd man’s flattering words, the naive, childlike affection shown her by Liza Merkalova, and all the social atmosphere she was used to,— it was all so easy, and what was in store for her was so difficult, that she was for a minute in uncertainty whether to remain, whether to put off a little longer the painful moment of explanation. But remembering what was in store for her alone at home, if she did not come to some decision, remembering that gesture—terrible even in memory—when she had clutched her hair in both hands—she said good-bye and went away.
安娜疑惑地沉思了片刻。这个精明男人的谄媚之言，莉莎·梅尔卡洛娃对她表现出的天真童心，还有她所习惯的一切社交氛围——这一切都是那么的容易，而等待她的却是那么的艰难，以至于她不确定是否要留下来，是否要推迟解释的痛苦时刻。但想起她一个人在家里等待着的是什么，如果她没有做出某种决定，想起她双手抓着头发时的那个姿势——即使在记忆中也很可怕——她说了再见就走了。

Chapter 19
第19章

In spite of Vronsky’s apparently frivolous life in society, he was a man who hated irregularity. In early youth in the Corps of Pages, he had experienced the humiliation of a refusal, when he had tried, being in difficulties, to borrow money, and since then he had never once put himself in the same position again.
尽管渥伦斯基的社会生活看似轻浮，但他却是一个痛恨不正规的人。年轻时，他在侍从军团中，曾在困难中尝试借钱，却遭到拒绝，这让他感到羞辱，从那以后，他再也没有陷入同样的​​境地。

In order to keep his affairs in some sort of order, he used about five times a year (more or less frequently, according to circumstances) to shut himself up alone and put all his affairs into definite shape. This he used to call his day of reckoning or faire la lessive.
为了让自己的事务保持某种秩序，他每年大约有五次（根据情况或多或少）将自己单独封闭起来，将所有事务都安排妥当。他常常将这一天称为“清算日”或“faire la lessive”。

On waking up the day after the races, Vronsky put on a white linen coat, and without shaving or taking his bath, he distributed about the table moneys, bills, and letters, and set to work. Petritsky, who knew he was ill-tempered on such occasions, on waking up and seeing his comrade at the writing-table, quietly dressed and went out without getting in his way.
赛后第二天醒来，渥伦斯基穿上一件白色亚麻外套，没有刮胡子，也没有洗澡，他把钱、账单和信件分发到桌子上，然后开始工作。佩特里茨基知道自己在这种情况下脾气暴躁，一觉醒来，看到他的战友坐在写字台前，他就安静地穿好衣服，出去了，没有妨碍他。

Every man who knows to the minutest details all the complexity of the conditions surrounding him, cannot help imagining that the complexity of these conditions, and the difficulty of making them clear, is something exceptional and personal, peculiar to himself, and never supposes that others are surrounded by just as complicated an array of personal affairs as he is. So indeed it seemed to Vronsky. And not without inward pride, and not without reason, he thought that any other man would long ago have been in difficulties, would have been forced to some dishonorable course, if he had found himself in such a difficult position. But Vronsky felt that now especially it was essential for him to clear up and define his position if he were to avoid getting into difficulties.
每一个对周围环境的复杂性了如指掌的人，都会情不自禁地想象，这些环境的复杂性，以及使它们变得清晰的困难，是一种特殊的、个人的、独特的东西，并且从不认为其他人也能做到这一点。和他一样被一系列复杂的个人事务所包围。在渥伦斯基看来确实如此。他并非没有内心的骄傲，也不是没有理由，他认为，如果其他人发现自己处于如此困难的境地，那么他早就陷入了困境，会被迫采取一些不光彩的做法。但渥伦斯基觉得，如果他想避免陷入困境，现在特别有必要澄清和明确自己的立场。

What Vronsky attacked first as being the easiest was his pecuniary position. Writing out on note paper in his minute hand all that he owed, he added up the amount and found that his debts amounted to seventeen thousand and some odd hundreds, which he left out for the sake of clearness. Reckoning up his money and his bank book, he found that he had left one thousand eight hundred roubles, and nothing coming in before the New Year. Reckoning over again his list of debts, Vronsky copied it, dividing it into three classes. In the first class he put the debts which he would have to pay at once, or for which he must in any case have the money ready so that on demand for payment there could not be a moment’s delay in paying. Such debts amounted to about four thousand: one thousand five hundred for a horse, and two thousand five hundred as surety for a young comrade, Venovsky, who had lost that sum to a cardsharper in Vronsky’s presence. Vronsky had wanted to pay the money at the time (he had that amount then), but Venovsky and Yashvin had insisted that they would pay and not Vronsky, who had not played. That was so far well, but Vronsky knew that in this dirty business, though his only share in it was undertaking by word of mouth to be surety for Venovsky, it was absolutely necessary for him to have the two thousand five hundred roubles so as to be able to fling it at the swindler, and have no more words with him. And so for this first and most important division he must have four thousand roubles. The second class—eight thousand roubles—consisted of less important debts. These were principally accounts owing in connection with his race horses, to the purveyor of oats and hay, the English saddler, and so on. He would have to pay some two thousand roubles on these debts too, in order to be quite free from anxiety. The last class of debts—to shops, to hotels, to his tailor—were such as need not be considered. So that he needed at least six thousand roubles for current expenses, and he only had one thousand eight hundred. For a man with one hundred thousand roubles of revenue, which was what everyone fixed as Vronsky’s income, such debts, one would suppose, could hardly be embarrassing; but the fact was that he was far from having one hundred thousand. His father’s immense property, which alone yielded a yearly income of two hundred thousand, was left undivided between the brothers. At the time when the elder brother, with a mass of debts, married Princess Varya Tchirkova, the daughter of a Decembrist without any fortune whatever, Alexey had given up to his elder brother almost the whole income from his father’s estate, reserving for himself only twenty-five thousand a year from it. Alexey had said at the time to his brother that that sum would be sufficient for him until he married, which he probably never would do. And his brother, who was in command of one of the most expensive regiments, and was only just married, could not decline the gift. His mother, who had her own separate property, had allowed Alexey every year twenty thousand in addition to the twenty-five thousand he had reserved, and Alexey had spent it all. Of late his mother, incensed with him on account of his love affair and his leaving Moscow, had given up sending him the money. And in consequence of this, Vronsky, who had been in the habit of living on the scale of forty-five thousand a year, having only received twenty thousand that year, found himself now in difficulties. To get out of these difficulties, he could not apply to his mother for money. Her last letter, which he had received the day before, had particularly exasperated him by the hints in it that she was quite ready to help him to succeed in the world and in the army, but not to lead a life which was a scandal to all good society. His mother’s attempt to buy him stung him to the quick and made him feel colder than ever to her. But he could not draw back from the generous word when it was once uttered, even though he felt now, vaguely foreseeing certain eventualities in his intrigue with Madame Karenina, that this generous word had been spoken thoughtlessly, and that even though he were not married he might need all the hundred thousand of income. But it was impossible to draw back. He had only to recall his brother’s wife, to remember how that sweet, delightful Varya sought, at every convenient opportunity, to remind him that she remembered his generosity and appreciated it, to grasp the impossibility of taking back his gift. It was as impossible as beating a woman, stealing, or lying. One thing only could and ought to be done, and Vronsky determined upon it without an instant’s hesitation: to borrow money from a money-lender, ten thousand roubles, a proceeding which presented no difficulty, to cut down his expenses generally, and to sell his race horses. Resolving on this, he promptly wrote a note to Rolandak, who had more than once sent to him with offers to buy horses from him. Then he sent for the Englishman and the money-lender, and divided what money he had according to the accounts he intended to pay. Having finished this business, he wrote a cold and cutting answer to his mother. Then he took out of his notebook three notes of Anna’s, read them again, burned them, and remembering their conversation on the previous day, he sank into meditation.
渥伦斯基首先攻击的最容易的就是他的金钱状况。他用分针在便条纸上写下自己所欠的一切，加起来，发现自己的债务有一万七千多百，为了清楚起见，他把这些数字省略了。他清点了一下自己的钱和银行存折，发现自己还剩下一千八百卢布，而且在新年之前什么也没有进账。渥伦斯基重新算了一下自己的债务清单，将其抄了下来，并将其分为三类。在第一类中，他把必须立即偿还的债务，或者在任何情况下都必须准备好钱的债务，以便在要求付款时，不能有片刻的拖延。这些债务大约有四千：一千五百是一匹马的债务，两千五百是年轻同志维诺夫斯基的担保人，他在渥伦斯基面前把这笔钱输给了一个玩牌的人。渥伦斯基当时想支付这笔钱（当时他有这笔钱），但维诺夫斯基和亚什文坚持认为他们会付钱，而不是没有参加比赛的渥伦斯基。到目前为止还不错，但是渥伦斯基知道，在这个肮脏的生意中，虽然他唯一的参与是通过口口相传为维诺夫斯基做担保，但他绝对有必要拥有两千五百卢布，以便可以把它扔给骗子，然后不再和他说话。因此，对于这第一个也是最重要的部分，他必须有四千卢布。第二类——八千卢布——包括不太重要的债务。这些记录主要与他的赛马、燕麦和干草的供应商、英国马具商等有关。 他还必须偿还这些债务大约两千卢布，才能完全摆脱焦虑。最后一类债务——欠商店、旅馆、裁缝的债务——无需考虑。这样一来，他的日常开支至少需要六千卢布，而他只有一千八百卢布。对于一个拥有十万卢布收入的人来说，这就是每个人都认为渥伦斯基的收入，人们会认为，这样的债务几乎不会令人尴尬；但事实是，他距离十万还差得很远。他父亲的巨额财产，仅此一项，每年就带来二十万的收入，没有被兄弟俩瓜分。当负债累累的哥哥娶了一位身无分文的十二月党人的女儿瓦里娅·奇尔科娃公主时，阿列克谢把他父亲的遗产几乎全部收入都交给了哥哥，只为自己保留。每年两万五千美元。阿列克谢当时对他的兄弟说，这笔钱足够他结婚为止，但他可能永远不会这样做。而他的哥哥指挥着最昂贵的军团之一，而且刚刚结婚，无法拒绝这份礼物。他的母亲有自己的财产，除了他保留的两万五千美元之外，每年还给阿列克谢两万美元，而阿列克谢已经花光了。最近，他的母亲因他的恋情和他离开莫斯科而对他感到愤怒，放弃了给他寄钱。结果，习惯了每年四万五千的生活的渥伦斯基，那一年只收到了两万，现在发现自己陷入了困境。 为了摆脱这些困难，他无法向母亲要钱。她前一天收到的最后一封信让他特别恼火，信中暗示她已经准备好帮助他在世界上和军队中取得成功，但不会过一种对他来说是丑闻的生活。一切美好社会。他母亲想要收买他的企图刺痛了他的心，让他对她感到前所未有的冷漠。但是，一旦说出这句慷慨的话，他就无法收回，尽管他现在隐约预见到了他与卡列尼娜夫人的阴谋中的某些可能性，这句慷慨的话是轻率地说出来的，尽管他还没有结婚。他可能需要全部的十万收入。但已经不可能退缩了。他只需要回忆起他兄弟的妻子，记住那个甜蜜、令人愉快的瓦里娅如何在每一个方便的机会提醒他，她记得他的慷慨并感激他，明白收回他的礼物是不可能的。这就像打女人、偷窃或撒谎一样不可能。只有一件事可以而且应该做，渥伦斯基毫不犹豫地决定了：向放债人借钱一万卢布，这一行动并不困难，总体上减少开支，并出售他的赛马。考虑到这一点，他立即给罗兰达克写了一张便条，罗兰达克不止一次向他发出了从他那里购买马匹的提议。然后他派人去叫来英国人和放债人，并根据他打算支付的账户分配他所拥有的钱。完成这件事后，他给母亲写了一封冷酷尖刻的回信。 然后他从笔记本里拿出安娜的三张笔记，又看了一遍，烧掉了，想起前一天他们的对话，他陷入了沉思。

Chapter 20
第20章

Vronsky’s life was particularly happy in that he had a code of principles, which defined with unfailing certitude what he ought and what he ought not to do. This code of principles covered only a very small circle of contingencies, but then the principles were never doubtful, and Vronsky, as he never went outside that circle, had never had a moment’s hesitation about doing what he ought to do. These principles laid down as invariable rules: that one must pay a cardsharper, but need not pay a tailor; that one must never tell a lie to a man, but one may to a woman; that one must never cheat anyone, but one may a husband; that one must never pardon an insult, but one may give one and so on. These principles were possibly not reasonable and not good, but they were of unfailing certainty, and so long as he adhered to them, Vronsky felt that his heart was at peace and he could hold his head up. Only quite lately in regard to his relations with Anna, Vronsky had begun to feel that his code of principles did not fully cover all possible contingencies, and to foresee in the future difficulties and perplexities for which he could find no guiding clue.
渥伦斯基的生活特别幸福，因为他有一套原则准则，明确规定了他应该做什么和不应该做什么。这套原则只涵盖了很小的一个范围，但原则却是不容置疑的，而渥伦斯基从来没有走出过这个范围，所以他在做他应该做的事情时从未有过片刻的犹豫。这些原则被定为不变的规则：必须付钱给打牌人，但不需要付钱给裁缝；绝对不能对男人说谎，但可以对女人说谎；一个人绝不能欺骗任何人，但一个人可以欺骗一个丈夫；一个人决不能原谅一种侮辱，但一个人可以给予一种侮辱，等等。这些原则也许不太合理，也不太好，但是却是绝对确定的，只要坚持下去，渥伦斯基就觉得心里踏实，可以昂首挺胸。直到最近，关于他与安娜的关系，渥伦斯基才开始感到他的原则准则并没有完全涵盖所有可能发生的意外情况，并预见到他无法找到指导线索的未来困难和困惑。

His present relation to Anna and to her husband was to his mind clear and simple. It was clearly and precisely defined in the code of principles by which he was guided.
在他看来，他目前与安娜和她丈夫的关系是清晰而简单的。它在他所遵循的原则准则中得到了明确而准确的定义。

She was an honorable woman who had bestowed her love upon him, and he loved her, and therefore she was in his eyes a woman who had a right to the same, or even more, respect than a lawful wife. He would have had his hand chopped off before he would have allowed himself by a word, by a hint, to humiliate her, or even to fall short of the fullest respect a woman could look for.
她是一个值得尊敬的女人，为他付出了爱，而他也爱她，因此她在他眼中是一个有权利得到与合法妻子同等甚至更多尊重的女人。在他允许自己通过一句话、一个暗示来羞辱她，甚至达不到一个女人所能寻求的最充分的尊重之前，他会被砍掉自己的手。

His attitude to society, too, was clear. Everyone might know, might suspect it, but no one might dare to speak of it. If any did so, he was ready to force all who might speak to be silent and to respect the non-existent honor of the woman he loved.
他对社会的态度也很明确。每个人都可能知道，可能怀疑，但可能没有人敢说。如果有人这样做，他准备迫使所有可能说话的人保持沉默，并尊重他所爱的女人不存在的荣誉。

His attitude to the husband was the clearest of all. From the moment that Anna loved Vronsky, he had regarded his own right over her as the one thing unassailable. Her husband was simply a superfluous and tiresome person. No doubt he was in a pitiable position, but how could that be helped? The one thing the husband had a right to was to demand satisfaction with a weapon in his hand, and Vronsky was prepared for this at any minute.
他对丈夫的态度是最清楚的。从安娜爱上渥伦斯基的那一刻起，他就将自己对她的权利视为无可争议的一件事。她的丈夫简直就是一个多余又令人厌烦的人。毫无疑问，他的处境很可怜，但又有什么办法呢？丈夫有权要求的一件事就是要求对他手中的武器感到满意，而渥伦斯基随时都为此做好了准备。

But of late new inner relations had arisen between him and her, which frightened Vronsky by their indefiniteness. Only the day before she had told him that she was with child. And he felt that this fact and what she expected of him called for something not fully defined in that code of principles by which he had hitherto steered his course in life. And he had been indeed caught unawares, and at the first moment when she spoke to him of her position, his heart had prompted him to beg her to leave her husband. He had said that, but now thinking things over he saw clearly that it would be better to manage to avoid that; and at the same time, as he told himself so, he was afraid whether it was not wrong.
但最近他和她之间出现了新的内在关系，这让渥伦斯基对他们的不确定性感到害怕。就在前一天，她才告诉他她怀孕了。他觉得这一事实以及她对他的期望要求一些尚未在他迄今指导其人生道路的原则准则中完全定义的东西。而他确实是措手不及，当她向他说出自己的立场的第一刻，他的心就促使他求她离开她的丈夫。他是这么说的，但现在想来，他清楚地意识到，最好还是设法避免这种情况发生。与此同时，正如他这样告诉自己的那样，他又担心这是否是错误的。

‘If I told her to leave her husband, that must mean uniting her life with mine; am I prepared for that? How can I take her away now, when I have no money? Supposing I could arrange.... But how can I take her away while I’m in the service? If I say that—I ought to be prepared to do it, that is, I ought to have the money and to retire from the army.’
“如果我告诉她离开她的丈夫，那一定意味着她的生活与我的生活结合在一起；我准备好了吗？我现在没钱了，怎么能把她带走呢？假设我可以安排……但是我在服役期间怎么能把她带走呢？如果我这么说——我应该做好准备，也就是说，我应该有钱并从军队退役。

And he grew thoughtful. The question whether to retire from the service or not brought him to the other and perhaps the chief though hidden interest of his life, of which none knew but he.
他开始沉思起来。是否退役的问题让他想到了另一个问题，也许是他生活中最隐秘的兴趣，除了他自己，没有人知道。

Ambition was the old dream of his youth and childhood, a dream which he did not confess even to himself, though it was so strong that now this passion was even doing battle with his love. His first steps in the world and in the service had been successful, but two years before he had made a great mistake. Anxious to show his independence and to advance, he had refused a post that had been offered him, hoping that this refusal would heighten his value; but it turned out that he had been too bold, and he was passed over. And having, whether he liked or not, taken up for himself the position of an independent man, he carried it off with great tact and good sense, behaving as though he bore no grudge against anyone, did not regard himself as injured in any way, and cared for nothing but to be left alone since he was enjoying himself. In reality he had ceased to enjoy himself as long ago as the year before, when he went away to Moscow. He felt that this independent attitude of a man who might have done anything, but cared to do nothing, was already beginning to pall, that many people were beginning to fancy that he was not really capable of anything but being a straightforward, good-natured fellow. His connection with Madame Karenina, by creating so much sensation and attracting general attention, had given him a fresh distinction which soothed his gnawing worm of ambition for a while, but a week before that worm had been roused up again with fresh force. The friend of his childhood, a man of the same set, of the same coterie, his comrade in the Corps of Pages, Serpuhovskoy, who had left school with him and had been his rival in class, in gymnastics, in their scrapes and their dreams of glory, had come back a few days before from Central Asia, where he had gained two steps up in rank, and an order rarely bestowed upon generals so young.
野心是他年轻时和童年时的古老梦想，他甚至没有向自己承认这个梦想，尽管它如此强烈，以至于现在这种激情甚至与他的爱情发生了冲突。他在世界和服务中的第一步是成功的，但两年前他犯了一个巨大的错误。由于急于表现自己的独立性和进步，他拒绝了向他提供的职位，希望这种拒绝能够提高他的价值。但事实证明他太大胆了，他被放过了。无论他愿意与否，他都以一个独立的人的身份，以极大的机智和明智的态度实现了这一目标，表现得好像他对任何人都没有怨恨，也不认为自己受到任何伤害。 ，因为他玩得很开心，所以什么也不关心，只关心一个人呆着。事实上，早在一年前他去莫斯科时，他就已经不再享受生活了。他觉得，这种本来可以做任何事情却又什么都不关心的人的独立态度已经开始令人厌烦，很多人开始认为他除了做一个直率、善良的人之外，什么都做不了。伙计。他与卡列尼娜夫人的关系引起了如此大的轰动，引起了普遍的关注，给了他一种新的区别，这暂时安抚了他那颗不断啃咬的野心之虫，但一周前，那条虫子又被新的力量唤醒了。 他儿时的朋友，同一批人，同一个小圈子，他在侍从军团的战友谢尔普霍夫斯科伊，他和他一起离开了学校，在课堂上、在体操上、在擦伤和比赛中都是他的对手。几天前，他从中亚回来，在那里，他的军衔提升了两级，并获得了很少授予如此年轻的将军的勋章。

As soon as he arrived in Petersburg, people began to talk about him as a newly risen star of the first magnitude. A schoolfellow of Vronsky’s and of the same age, he was a general and was expecting a command, which might have influence on the course of political events; while Vronsky, independent and brilliant and beloved by a charming woman though he was, was simply a cavalry captain who was readily allowed to be as independent as ever he liked. ‘Of course I don’t envy Serpuhovskoy and never could envy him; but his advancement shows me that one has only to watch one’s opportunity, and the career of a man like me may be very rapidly made. Three years ago he was in just the same position as I am. If I retire, I burn my ships. If I remain in the army, I lose nothing. She said herself she did not wish to change her position. And with her love I cannot feel envious of Serpuhovskoy.’ And slowly twirling his mustaches, he got up from the table and walked about the room. His eyes shone particularly brightly, and he felt in that confident, calm, and happy frame of mind which always came after he had thoroughly faced his position. Everything was straight and clear, just as after former days of reckoning. He shaved, took a cold bath, dressed and went out.
他一到彼得堡，人们就开始谈论他，称他为一颗新星。他是渥伦斯基的同学，同龄，是一名将军，正在等待指挥，这可能会影响政治事件的进程；而渥伦斯基虽然独立、才华横溢，深受一位迷人女人的喜爱，但他只是一名骑兵上尉，很容易被允许随心所欲地独立。 “当然，我不羡慕谢尔普霍夫斯科伊，也永远不会羡慕他；但他的进步告诉我，只要留意机会，像我这样的人的事业可能会很快取得成功。三年前，他的处境和我一样。如果我退休了，我就会烧毁我的船。如果我留在军队，我不会有任何损失。她自己表示，她不想改变自己的立场。有了她的爱，我就不会嫉妒谢尔普霍夫斯科伊了。”他慢慢地捻着胡子，从桌子上站起来，在房间里走来走去。他的眼睛特别明亮，感受到彻底正视自己的处境之后，才会有的那种自信、平静、愉悦的心情。一切都清晰明了，就像经过前几天的清算一样。他刮了胡子，洗了个冷水澡，穿好衣服就出去了。

Chapter 21
第21章

‘We’ve come to fetch you. Your lessive lasted a good time today,’ said Petritsky. ‘Well, is it over?’
‘我们是来接你的。你的孩子今天玩得很开心，”佩特里茨基说。 “怎么样，结束了吗？”

‘It is over,’ answered Vronsky, smiling with his eyes only, and twirling the tips of his mustaches as circumspectly as though after the perfect order into which his affairs had been brought any over-bold or rapid movement might disturb it.
“一切都结束了，”渥伦斯基回答道，他只用眼睛微笑着，小心翼翼地转动着胡子尖，仿佛在他的事务已经完美有序地进行之后，任何过于大胆或快速的动作都可能会扰乱它。

‘You’re always just as if you’d come out of a bath after it,’ said Petritsky. ‘I’ve come from Gritsky’s’ (that was what they called the colonel); ‘they’re expecting you.’
“你总是就像刚洗完澡一样，”佩特里茨基说。 “我来自格里茨基”（他们就是这么称呼上校的）； “他们在等你。”

Vronsky, without answering, looked at his comrade, thinking of something else.
渥伦斯基没有回答，只是看着他的战友，心里想着别的事情。

‘Yes; is that music at his place?’ he said, listening to the familiar sounds of polkas and waltzes floating across to him. ‘What’s the fete?’
'是的; “那是他家的音乐吗？”他一边说，一边听着熟悉的波尔卡舞和华尔兹的声音飘向他。 “什么节日？”

‘Serpuhovskoy’s come.’
“谢尔普霍夫斯科伊来了。”

‘Aha!’ said Vronsky, ‘why, I didn’t know.’
“啊哈！”渥伦斯基说，“为什么，我不知道。”

The smile in his eyes gleamed more brightly than ever.
他眼中的笑容比以往更加灿烂。

Having once made up his mind that he was happy in his love, that he sacrificed his ambition to it—having anyway taken up this position, Vronsky was incapable of feeling either envious of Serpuhovskoy or hurt with him for not coming first to him when he came to the regiment. Serpuhovskoy was a good friend, and he was delighted he had come.
渥伦斯基曾经下定决心，他在爱情中是幸福的，他为此牺牲了自己的野心——无论如何，既然采取了这个立场，渥伦斯基既不会嫉妒谢尔普霍夫斯科伊，也不会因为他没有先来找他而感到受伤。来到了团里。谢尔普霍夫斯科伊是一位好朋友，他很高兴他能来。

‘Ah, I’m very glad!’
“啊，我很高兴！”

The colonel, Demin, had taken a large country house. The whole party were in the wide lower balcony. In the courtyard the first objects that met Vronsky’s eyes were a band of singers in white linen coats, standing near a barrel of vodka, and the robust, good-humored figure of the colonel surrounded by officers. He had gone out as far as the first step of the balcony and was loudly shouting across the band that played Offenbach’s quadrille, waving his arms and giving some orders to a few soldiers standing on one side. A group of soldiers, a quartermaster, and several subalterns came up to the balcony with Vronsky. The colonel returned to the table, went out again onto the steps with a tumbler in his hand, and proposed the toast, ‘To the health of our former comrade, the gallant general, Prince Serpuhovskoy. Hurrah!’
德明上校租下了一座大乡间别墅。整个聚会都在宽敞的下层阳台上进行。在院子里，渥伦斯基首先映入眼帘的是一群穿着白色亚麻大衣的歌手，站在一桶伏特加旁边，还有被军官包围的上校健壮、幽默的身影。他一直走到阳台的第一级台阶，对着演奏奥芬巴赫四舞曲的乐队大声喊叫，挥舞着手臂，向站在一边的几个士兵发号施令。一群士兵、一名军需官和几名副官与渥伦斯基一起来到阳台上。上校回到餐桌旁，再次走到台阶上，手里拿着一个玻璃杯，敬酒道：“为我们的前同志、英勇的将军谢尔普霍夫斯科伊亲王的健康干杯。”欢呼！'

The colonel was followed by Serpuhovskoy, who came out onto the steps smiling, with a glass in his hand.
谢尔普霍夫斯科伊跟在上校后面，他手里拿着一个玻璃杯，微笑着走上台阶。

‘You always get younger, Bondarenko,’ he said to the rosy-checked, smart-looking quartermaster standing just before him, still youngish looking though doing his second term of service.
“邦达连科，你总是会变得更年轻。”他对站在他面前的面色红润、看上去很聪明的军需官说道，尽管他已经在履行第二个任期，但他看上去仍然很年轻。

It was three years since Vronsky had seen Serpuhovskoy. He looked more robust, had let his whiskers grow, but was still the same graceful creature, whose face and figure were even more striking from their softness and nobility than their beauty. The only change Vronsky detected in him was that subdued, continual radiance of beaming content which settles on the faces of men who are successful and are sure of the recognition of their success by everyone. Vronsky knew that radiant air, and immediately observed it in Serpuhovskoy.
渥伦斯基与谢尔普霍夫斯科伊见面已经三年了。他看起来更加健壮，胡须也长了起来，但依然是那个优雅的生物，脸庞和身材的柔和和高贵比他们的美丽更引人注目。渥伦斯基在他身上发现的唯一变化是，那些成功的人脸上洋溢着柔和的、持续不断的喜气洋洋的光芒，这些人都确信自己的成功得到了所有人的认可。渥伦斯基知道那种辐射空气，并立即在谢尔普霍夫斯科伊观察到它。

As Serpuhovskoy came down the steps he saw Vronsky. A smile of pleasure lighted up his face. He tossed his head upwards and waved the glass in his hand, greeting Vronsky, and showing him by the gesture that he could not come to him before the quartermaster, who stood craning forward his lips ready to be kissed.
当谢尔普霍夫斯科伊走下台阶时，他看到了渥伦斯基。他的脸上洋溢着喜悦的笑容。他仰起头，挥舞着手中的酒杯，向渥伦斯基打招呼，并用这个手势告诉他，他不能在军需官面前走到他面前，而军需官站在那儿，嘴唇向前伸长，准备被亲吻。

‘Here he is!’ shouted the colonel. ‘Yashvin told me you were in one of your gloomy tempers.’
“他在这里！”上校喊道。 “亚什文告诉我你的脾气很阴郁。”

Serpuhovskoy kissed the moist, fresh lips of the gallant-looking quartermaster, and wiping his mouth with his handkerchief, went up to Vronsky.
谢尔普霍夫斯科伊吻了一下看上去英勇的军需官湿润、清新的嘴唇，用手帕擦了擦嘴，然后走到渥伦斯基身边。

‘How glad I am!’ he said, squeezing his hand and drawing him on one side.
“我多么高兴啊！”他说，握紧他的手，把他拉到一侧。

‘You look after him,’ the colonel shouted to Yashvin, pointing to Vronsky; and he went down below to the soldiers.
“你照顾他，”上校指着渥伦斯基对亚什温喊道。他下到下面的士兵那里。

‘Why weren’t you at the races yesterday? I expected to see you there,’ said Vronsky, scrutinizing Serpuhovskoy.
“你昨天为什么没有参加比赛？ “我本来希望在那里见到你。”渥伦斯基一边说，一边打量着谢尔普霍夫斯科伊。

‘I did go, but late. I beg your pardon,’ he added, and he turned to the adjutant: ‘Please have this divided from me, each man as much as it runs to.’ And he hurriedly took notes for three hundred roubles from his pocketbook, blushing a little.
“我确实去了，但是晚了。请您原谅，”他补充道，然后转向副官：“请把这个分给我，每个人能分到多少就分多少。”他急忙从皮夹里掏出三百卢布的钞票，脸有点红了。 。

‘Vronsky! Have anything to eat or drink?’ asked Yashvin. ‘Hi, something for the count to eat! Ah, here it is: have a glass!’
渥伦斯基！有什么吃的或喝的吗？”亚什文问道。 ‘嗨，给伯爵吃点东西吧！啊，在这里：喝一杯！

The fete at the colonel’s lasted a long while. There was a great deal of drinking. They tossed Serpuhovskoy in the air and caught him again several times. Then they did the same to the colonel. Then, to the accompaniment of the band, the colonel himself danced with Petritsky. Then the colonel, who began to show signs of feebleness, sat down on a bench in the courtyard and began demonstrating to Yashvin the superiority of Russia over Poland, especially in cavalry attack, and there was a lull in the revelry for a moment. Serpuhovskoy went into the house to the bathroom to wash his hands and found Vronsky there; Vronsky was drenching his head with water. He had taken off his coat and put his sunburnt, hairy neck under the tap, and was rubbing it and his head with his hands. When he had finished, Vronsky sat down by Serpuhovskoy. They both sat down in the bathroom on a lounge, and a conversation began which was very interesting to both of them.
上校家的宴会持续了很长时间。喝了很多酒。他们将谢尔普霍夫斯科伊抛向空中，并多次将他抓住。然后他们对上校做了同样的事。然后，在乐队的伴奏下，上校本人与佩特里茨基一起跳舞。然后，开始显出虚弱迹象的上校在院子里的长凳上坐下，开始向亚什温展示俄罗斯相对于波兰的优势，特别是在骑兵进攻方面，狂欢暂时平静下来。谢尔普霍夫斯科伊进屋去浴室洗手，发现渥伦斯基就在那里。渥伦斯基正在用水淋湿他的头。他脱下外套，把晒黑、毛茸茸的脖子放在水龙头下，用手揉搓脖子和头。讲完后，渥伦斯基在谢尔普霍夫斯科伊身边坐下。他们俩在休息室的浴室里坐下，开始了一段对两人来说都很有趣的谈话。

‘I’ve always been hearing about you through my wife,’ said Serpuhovskoy. ‘I’m glad you’ve been seeing her pretty often.’
“我一直通过我的妻子听说过你，”谢尔普霍夫斯科伊说。 “我很高兴你经常见到她。”

‘She’s friendly with Varya, and they’re the only women in Petersburg I care about seeing,’ answered Vronsky, smiling. He smiled because he foresaw the topic the conversation would turn on, and he was glad of it.
“她对瓦里娅很友好，她们是彼得堡唯一我愿意见到的女人，”渥伦斯基微笑着回答。他笑了，因为他预见到了谈话的话题，而且他很高兴。

‘The only ones?’ Serpuhovskoy queried, smiling.
“唯一的吗？”谢尔普霍夫斯科伊微笑着问道。

‘Yes; and I heard news of you, but not only through your wife,’ said Vronsky, checking his hint by a stern expression of face. ‘I was greatly delighted to hear of your success, but not a bit surprised. I expected even more.’
'是的; “我听说了你的消息，但不仅仅是通过你的妻子。”渥伦斯基说道，脸上表情严肃，以证实他的暗示。 “听到你的成功我非常高兴，但并不感到惊讶。我期望更多。

Serpuhovskoy smiled. Such an opinion of him was obviously agreeable to him, and he did not think it necessary to conceal it.
谢尔普霍夫斯科伊笑了。对于他的这样的看法，他显然是认同的，他认为没有必要隐瞒。

‘Well, I on the contrary expected less—I’ll own frankly. But I’m glad, very glad. I’m ambitious; that’s my weakness, and I confess to it.’
“嗯，相反，我的期望更低——坦白说，我承认。但我很高兴，非常高兴。我雄心勃勃；这是我的弱点，我承认这一点。

‘Perhaps you wouldn’t confess to it if you hadn’t been successful,’ said Vronsky.
“如果你没有成功，也许你不会承认这一点，”渥伦斯基说。

‘I don’t suppose so,’ said Serpuhovskoy, smiling again. ‘I won’t say life wouldn’t be worth living without it, but it would be dull. Of course I may be mistaken, but I fancy I have a certain capacity for the line I’ve chosen, and that power of any sort in my hands, if it is to be, will be better than in the hands of a good many people I know,’ said Serpuhovskoy, with beaming consciousness of success; ‘and so the nearer I get to it, the better pleased I am.’
“我不这么认为，”谢尔普霍夫斯科伊再次微笑着说道。 “我不会说没有它生活就不值得过，但它会很乏味。当然，我可能是错的，但我想我对我所选择的路线有一定的能力，而且我手中的任何形式的力量，如果是的话，都会比很多人手中的更好。 “我认识的人，”谢尔普霍夫斯科伊说道，脸上洋溢着成功的喜悦。 “所以我越接近它，我就越高兴。”

‘Perhaps that is true for you, but not for everyone. I used to think so too, but here I live and think life worth living not only for that.’
“也许这对你来说是真的，但不是对所有人来说。我曾经也这么认为，但我生活在这里，并认为生活的价值不仅仅在于这一点。

‘There it’s out! here it comes!’ said Serpuhovskoy, laughing. ‘Ever since I heard about you, about your refusal, I began.... Of course, I approved of what you did. But there are ways of doing everything. And I think your action was good in itself, but you didn’t do it quite in the way you ought to have done.’
‘就这样出来了！来了！”谢尔普霍夫斯科伊笑着说。 ‘自从我听说你的事，听说你的拒绝，我就开始……当然，我赞成你所做的事情。但凡事都有办法。我认为你的行为本身是好的，但你没有完全按照你应该做的方式去做。

‘What’s done can’t be undone, and you know I never go back on what I’ve done. And besides, I’m very well off.’
“已经发生的事情无法挽回，你知道我永远不会后悔我所做的事情。而且，我的生活非常富裕。

‘Very well off—for the time. But you’re not satisfied with that. I wouldn’t say this to your brother. He’s a nice child, like our host here. There he goes!’ he added, listening to the roar of ‘hurrah!’—‘and he’s happy, but that does not satisfy you.’
“目前非常富裕。”但你对此并不满意。我不会对你兄弟说这些。他是一个好孩子，就像我们这里的主人一样。他走了！”他一边补充道，一边听着“万岁！”的欢呼声——“他很高兴，但这并不能让你满意。”

‘I didn’t say it did satisfy me.’
“我并没有说它确实让我满意。”

‘Yes, but that’s not the only thing. Such men as you are wanted.’
‘是的，但这不是唯一的事情。像你这样的人是需要的。

‘By whom?’
'通过谁？'

‘By whom? By society, by Russia. Russia needs men; she needs a party, or else everything goes and will go to the dogs.’
'通过谁？社会，俄罗斯。俄罗斯需要男人；她需要一个聚会，否则一切都会失败。

‘How do you mean? Bertenev’s party against the Russian communists?’
'你是什么意思？贝尔捷涅夫的政党反对俄罗斯共产党？

‘No,’ said Serpuhovskoy, frowning with vexation at being suspected of such an absurdity. ‘Tout ca est une blague. That’s always been and always will be. There are no communists. But intriguing people have to invent a noxious, dangerous party. It’s an old trick. No, what’s wanted is a powerful party of independent men like you and me.’
“不，”谢尔普霍夫斯科伊说，他因被怀疑如此荒谬而苦恼地皱起眉头。 “这就是一场瘟疫。”过去如此，将来也永远如此。没有共产党人。但有趣的人必须发明一个有毒、危险的政党。这是一个老把戏。不，我们需要的是一个由像你我这样的独立人士组成的强大政党。

‘But why so?’ Vronsky mentioned a few men who were in power. ‘Why aren’t they independent men?’
“但是为什么会这样呢？”渥伦斯基提到了一些当权者。 “为什么他们不是独立的人？”

‘Simply because they have not, or have not had from birth, an independent fortune; they’ve not had a name, they’ve not been close to the sun and center as we have. They can be bought either by money or by favor. And they have to find a support for themselves in inventing a policy. And they bring forward some notion, some policy that they don’t believe in, that does harm; and the whole policy is really only a means to a government house and so much income. Cela n’est pas plus fin que ca, when you get a peep at their cards. I may be inferior to them, stupider perhaps, though I don’t see why I should be inferior to them. But you and I have one important advantage over them for certain, in being more difficult to buy. And such men are more needed than ever.’
“仅仅因为他们没有，或者从出生起就没有独立的财富；它们没有名字，它们不像我们那样靠近太阳和中心。它们可以通过金钱或恩惠来购买。他们必须在制定政策时为自己找到支持。他们提出了一些他们不相信的观念和政策，这确实有害；整个政策实际上只是获得政府机构和大量收入的一种手段。 Cela n'est pas plus fin que ca，当你看到他们的牌时。我可能不如他们，也许更愚蠢，尽管我不明白为什么我应该不如他们。但你我肯定比它们有一个重要的优势，那就是更难购买。现在比以往任何时候都更需要这样的人。”

Vronsky listened attentively, but he was not so much interested by the meaning of the words as by the attitude of Serpuhovskoy who was already contemplating a struggle with the existing powers, and already had his likes and dislikes in that higher world, while his own interest in the governing world did not go beyond the interests of his regiment. Vronsky felt, too, how powerful Serpuhovskoy might become through his unmistakable faculty for thinking things out and for taking things in, through his intelligence and gift of words, so rarely met with in the world in which he moved. And, ashamed as he was of the feeling, he felt envious.
渥伦斯基聚精会神地听着，但他对这些话的含义不太感兴趣，而对谢尔普霍夫斯科伊的态度更感兴趣，谢尔普霍夫斯科伊已经在考虑与现有的权力进行斗争，并且已经在那个更高的世界里有了自己的好恶，而他自己的兴趣在统治世界中并没有超出他的军团的利益。渥伦斯基也感觉到，谢尔普霍夫斯科伊凭借他那无可挑剔的思考和吸收能力，通过他的智慧和语言天赋，可能会变得多么强大，这在他所生活的世界中是很少见的。尽管他对这种感觉感到羞愧，但他还是感到嫉妒。

‘Still I haven’t the one thing of most importance for that,’ he answered; ‘I haven’t the desire for power. I had it once, but it’s gone.’
“我还没有找到最重要的一件事，”他回答道。 ‘我没有对权力的渴望。我曾经拥有过它，但它消失了。

‘Excuse me, that’s not true,’ said Serpuhovskoy, smiling.
“对不起，这不是真的，”谢尔普霍夫斯科伊微笑着说道。

‘Yes, it is true, it is true...now!’ Vronsky added, to be truthful.
“是的，这是真的，这是真的……现在！”说实话，渥伦斯基补充道。

‘Yes, it’s true now, that’s another thing; but that now won’t last forever.’
“是的，现在确实如此，那是另一回事了；”但现在这种情况不会永远持续下去。

‘Perhaps,’ answered Vronsky.
“也许吧，”渥伦斯基回答。

‘You say perhaps,’ Serpuhovskoy went on, as though guessing his thoughts, ‘but I say for certain. And that’s what I wanted to see you for. Your action was just what it should have been. I see that, but you ought not to keep it up. I only ask you to give me carte blanche. I’m not going to offer you my protection...though, indeed, why shouldn’t I protect you?— you’ve protected me often enough! I should hope our friendship rises above all that sort of thing. Yes,’ he said, smiling to him as tenderly as a woman, ‘give me carte blanche, retire from the regiment, and I’ll draw you upwards imperceptibly.’
“你说也许，”谢尔普霍夫斯科伊继续说道，仿佛猜到了他的想法，“但我说肯定。”这就是我想见你的原因。你的行为本来就是应该的。我明白了，但你不应该继续这样。我只要求你全权委托我。我不会为你提供保护……不过，事实上，我为什么不应该保护你呢？——你已经足够频繁地保护我了！我希望我们的友谊超越所有此类事情。是的，”他像女人一样温柔地对他微笑，“给我全权委托，从军团退役，我会在不知不觉中把你拉上来。”

‘But you must understand that I want nothing,’ said Vronsky, ‘except that all should be as it is.’
“但你必须明白，我什么都不想要，”渥伦斯基说，“除了一切都应该保持原样。”

Serpuhovskoy got up and stood facing him.
谢尔普霍夫斯科伊站起来，面向他站着。

‘You say that all should be as it is. I understand what that means. But listen: we’re the same age, you’ve known a greater number of women perhaps than I have.’ Serpohovskoy’s smile and gestures told Vronsky that he mustn’t be afraid, that he would be tender and careful in touching the sore place. ‘But I’m married, and believe me, in getting to know thoroughly one’s wife, if one loves her, as someone has said, one gets to know all women better than if one knew thousands of them.’
‘你说一切都应该如此。我明白这意味着什么。但是听着：我们同龄，你认识的女人可能比我还多。”谢尔波霍夫斯科伊的微笑和手势告诉渥伦斯基，他不必害怕，他会温柔而小心地触摸疼痛处。地方。 “但我已经结婚了，相信我，在彻底了解自己的妻子时，如果一个人爱她，正如有人所说，一个人可以比认识成千上万的女人更好地了解所有的女人。”

‘We’re coming directly!’ Vronsky shouted to an officer, who looked into the room and called them to the colonel.
“我们直接来！”渥伦斯基对一名军官喊道，军官向房间里看了一眼，把他们叫到了上校。

Vronsky was longing now to hear to the end and know what Serpuhovskey would say to him.
渥伦斯基现在渴望听完最后，知道谢尔普霍夫斯基会对他说些什么。

‘And here’s my opinion for you. Women are the chief stumbling block in a man’s career. It’s hard to love a woman and do anything. There’s only one way of having love conveniently without its being a hindrance—that’s marriage. How, how am I to tell you what I mean?’ said Serpuhovskoy, who liked similes. ‘Wait a minute, wait a minute! Yes, just as you can only carry a fardeau and do something with your hands, when the fardeau is tied on your back, and that’s marriage. And that’s what I felt when I was married. My hands were suddenly set free. But to drag that fardeau about with you without marriage, your hands will always be so full that you can do nothing. Look at Mazankov, at Krupov. They’ve ruined their careers for the sake of women.’
“这是我对你的看法。女人是男人事业的最大绊脚石。爱一个女人并做任何事都很难。只有一种方式可以方便地拥有爱情而不成为阻碍，那就是婚姻。 “怎么样，我该如何告诉你我的意思呢？”喜欢明喻的谢尔普霍夫斯科伊说道。 ‘等一下，等一下！是的，就像你只能背着法杜，用手做事一样，当法杜绑在你的背上时，那就是婚姻。这就是我结婚时的感受。我的双手突然被解放了。但如果不结婚就拖着那个法多，你的双手总是忙得不可开交。看看马赞科夫，看看克鲁波夫。为了女性，他们毁了自己的事业。”

‘What women!’ said Vronsky, recalling the Frenchwoman and the actress with whom the two men he had mentioned were connected.
“什么女人啊！”渥伦斯基回忆起与他提到的两个男人有联系的法国女人和女演员时说道。

‘The firmer the woman’s footing in society, the worse it is. That’s much the same as—not merely carrying the fardeau in your arms—but tearing it away from someone else.’
“女人在社会中的立足点越稳固，情况就越糟糕。这与不仅仅是将法多抱在怀里，而且把它从别人手中夺走是一样的。

‘You have never loved,’ Vronsky said softly, looking straight before him and thinking of Anna.
“你从来没有爱过，”渥伦斯基轻声说道，他直视前方，想着安娜。

‘Perhaps. But you remember what I’ve said to you. And another thing, women are all more materialistic than men. We make something immense out of love, but they are always terre-a-terre.’
'也许。但你记得我对你说过的话。另一件事是，女性比男性更物质。我们出于爱创造了巨大的东西，但它们始终是陆地。”

‘Directly, directly!’ he cried to a footman who came in. But the footman had not come to call them again, as he supposed. The footman brought Vronsky a note.
“直接，直接！”他对进来的一个男仆喊道。但正如他所想，男仆并没有再来叫他们。男仆给渥伦斯基带来了一张纸条。

‘A man brought it from Princess Tverskaya.’
“一个男人从特维尔斯卡娅公主那里带来了它。”

Vronsky opened the letter, and flushed crimson.
渥伦斯基打开信，脸涨得通红。

‘My head’s begun to ache; I’m going home,’ he said to Serpuhovskoy.
“我的头开始疼；我要回家了，”他对谢尔普霍夫斯科伊说。

‘Oh, good-bye then. You give me carte blanche!’
‘哦，那么再见了。你给我全权委托！

‘We’ll talk about it later on; I’ll look you up in Petersburg.’
“我们稍后再讨论；我会去彼得堡找你。”

Chapter 22
第22章

It was six o’clock already, and so, in order to be there quickly, and at the same time not to drive with his own horses, known to everyone, Vronsky got into Yashvin’s hired fly, and told the driver to drive as quickly as possible. It was a roomy, old-fashioned fly, with seats for four. He sat in one corner, stretched his legs out on the front seat, and sank into meditation.
已经六点钟了，所以，为了尽快赶到，同时又不想用众所周知的自己的马开车，渥伦斯基上了亚什温雇来的飞机，并告诉司机尽快开车。尽可能。这是一架宽敞的老式飞机，可容纳四个人。他坐在角落里，把腿伸到前座上，陷入沉思。

A vague sense of the order into which his affairs had been brought, a vague recollection of the friendliness and flattery of Serpuhovskoy, who had considered him a man that was needed, and most of all, the anticipation of the interview before him—all blended into a general, joyous sense of life. This feeling was so strong that he could not help smiling. He dropped his legs, crossed one leg over the other knee, and taking it in his hand, felt the springy muscle of the calf, where it had been grazed the day before by his fall, and leaning back he drew several deep breaths.
对他的事务已进入有序状态的模糊感觉，对谢尔普霍夫斯科伊的友好和奉承的模糊回忆，谢尔普霍夫斯科伊认为他是一个需要的人，最重要的是，对他面前的采访的期待——所有这些都混合在一起进入一种普遍的、快乐的生活感觉。这种感觉太强烈了，让他忍不住笑了。他放下双腿，将一条腿交叉在另一只膝盖上，将它握在手中，感受小腿上富有弹性的肌肉，前一天跌倒时擦伤的地方，向后靠去，他深吸了几口气。

‘I’m happy, very happy!’ he said to himself. He had often before had this sense of physical joy in his own body, but he had never felt so fond of himself, of his own body, as at that moment. He enjoyed the slight ache in his strong leg, he enjoyed the muscular sensation of movement in his chest as he breathed. The bright, cold August day, which had made Anna feel so hopeless, seemed to him keenly stimulating, and refreshed his face and neck that still tingled from the cold water. The scent of brilliantine on his whiskers struck him as particularly pleasant in the fresh air. Everything he saw from the carriage window, everything in that cold pure air, in the pale light of the sunset, was as fresh, and gay, and strong as he was himself: the roofs of the houses shining in the rays of the setting sun, the sharp outlines of fences and angles of buildings, the figures of passers-by, the carriages that met him now and then, the motionless green of the trees and grass, the fields with evenly drawn furrows of potatoes, and the slanting shadows that fell from the houses, and trees, and bushes, and even from the rows of potatoes—everything was bright like a pretty landscape just finished and freshly varnished.
“我很高兴，非常高兴！”他对自己说。他以前经常在自己的身体上感受到这种肉体上的愉悦感，但他从来没有像此刻这样喜欢自己，喜欢自己的身体。他享受他强壮的腿上的轻微疼痛，他享受呼吸时胸部肌肉运动的感觉。八月的明媚寒冷的一天，曾让安娜感到如此绝望，但对他来说，却显得格外刺激，让他仍然被冷水刺痛的脸和脖子感到清爽。他胡须上散发着的光亮剂的香味在新鲜空气中显得格外宜人。他从车窗里看到的一切，在那寒冷纯净的空气中，在夕阳的苍白光芒下，一切都像他本人一样新鲜、快乐、坚强：房屋的屋顶在夕阳的光芒中闪闪发光栅栏和建筑物的棱角的轮廓，路人的身影，时不时遇到的马车，一动不动的绿色树木和草地，均匀地划出犁沟的田野，还有斜斜的影子。从房屋、树木、灌木丛，甚至从成排的土豆上掉下来——一切都很明亮，就像一幅刚刚完工、刚刷过漆的美丽风景。

‘Get on, get on!’ he said to the driver, putting his head out of the window, and pulling a three-rouble note out of his pocket he handed it to the man as he looked round. The driver’s hand fumbled with something at the lamp, the whip cracked, and the carriage rolled rapidly along the smooth highroad.
“上车，上车！”他把头伸出车窗外，对司机说道，从口袋里掏出一张三卢布的钞票，递给司机，同时环顾四周。车夫的手在车灯上摸索着什么，马鞭嘎吱作响，马车沿着平坦的大路飞速滚动。

‘I want nothing, nothing but this happiness,’ he thought, staring at the bone button of the bell in the space between the windows, and picturing to himself Anna just as he had seen her last time. ‘And as I go on, I love her more and more. Here’s the garden of the Vrede Villa. Whereabouts will she be? Where? How? Why did she fix on this place to meet me, and why does she write in Betsy’s letter?’ he thought, wondering now for the first time at it. But there was now no time for wonder. He called to the driver to stop before reaching the avenue, and opening the door, jumped out of the carriage as it was moving, and went into the avenue that led up to the house. There was no one in the avenue; but looking round to the right he caught sight of her. Her face was hidden by a veil, but he drank in with glad eyes the special movement in walking, peculiar to her alone, the slope of the shoulders, and the setting of the head, and at once a sort of electric shock ran all over him. With fresh force, he felt conscious of himself from the springy motions of his legs to the movements of his lungs as he breathed, and something set his lips twitching.
“我什么都不想要，除了这种幸福，什么都不想要。”他一边想，一边盯着窗户之间的铃铛的骨头纽扣，脑海里浮现出安娜上次见到她时的样子。 “随着我的生活，我越来越爱她。这里是Vrede别墅的花园。她会在哪里？在哪里？如何？为什么她会选择这个地方来见我，为什么她要写在贝特西的信里？”他想，现在第一次想知道。但现在没有时间惊叹了。还没到大道，他就招呼车夫停车，打开车门，在行驶中的马车上跳下车，走进了通往屋子的大道。大街上空无一人。但他向右一看，看到了她。她的脸被面纱遮住了，但他用高兴的目光欣赏着她独有的走路时的特殊动作、肩膀的倾斜度和头部的位置，顿时一种触电般的感觉袭遍全身。他。带着新鲜的力量，他从双腿的弹性动作到呼吸时肺部的运动，感觉到了自己的意识，有什么东西让他的嘴唇抽搐。

Joining him, she pressed his hand tightly.
她走到他身边，紧紧握住他的手。

‘You’re not angry that I sent for you? I absolutely had to see you,’ she said; and the serious and set line of her lips, which he saw under the veil, transformed his mood at once.
“我派人来找你，你不生气吗？ “我一定要见你，”她说。他在面纱下看到她严肃而坚定的嘴唇线条，立刻改变了他的心情。

‘I angry! But how have you come, where from?’
'我生气！但你是怎么来的，从哪里来？

‘Never mind,’ she said, laying her hand on his, ‘come along, I must talk to you.’
“没关系，”她把手放在他的手上，“来吧，我必须和你谈谈。”

He saw that something had happened, and that the interview would not be a joyous one. In her presence he had no will of his own: without knowing the grounds of her distress, he already felt the same distress unconsciously passing over him.
他看出发生了一些事情，这次采访不会是一件愉快的事。在她面前，他没有自己的意志：在不知道她痛苦的原因的情况下，他已经不自觉地感觉到同样的痛苦从他身上流过。

‘What is it? what?’ he asked her, squeezing her hand with his elbow, and trying to read her thoughts in her face.
'它是什么？什么？”他问她，用肘部捏住她的手，试图从她的脸上读出她的想法。

She walked on a few steps in silence, gathering up her courage; then suddenly she stopped.
她默默地走了几步，鼓起勇气；然后她突然停了下来。

‘I did not tell you yesterday,’ she began, breathing quickly and painfully, ‘that coming home with Alexey Alexandrovitch I told him everything...told him I could not be his wife, that...and told him everything.’
“我昨天没有告诉你，”她开始呼吸急促而痛苦，“我和阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇一起回家时告诉了他一切……告诉他我不能成为他的妻子，那……并告诉了他一切。”

He heard her, unconsciously bending his whole figure down to her as though hoping in this way to soften the hardness of her position for her. But directly she had said this he suddenly drew himself up, and a proud and hard expression came over his face.
他听到了她的声音，下意识地将整个身子向她俯下，仿佛希望以此来软化她的僵硬姿势。但她话音刚落，他就猛地站了起来，脸上浮现出骄傲而强硬的表情。

‘Yes, yes, that’s better, a thousand times better! I know how painful it was,’ he said. But she was not listening to his words, she was reading his thoughts from the expression of his face. She could not guess that that expression arose from the first idea that presented itself to Vronsky—that a duel was now inevitable. The idea of a duel had never crossed her mind, and so she put a different interpretation on this passing expression of hardness.
‘是的，是的，那更好了，好一千倍！我知道那有多痛苦，”他说。但她并不是在听他说话，而是从他的表情中读出他的想法。她猜不到渥伦斯基脑海中出现的第一个想法就是这种表情——一场决斗现在不可避免。她从来没有想过决斗的念头，所以她对这短暂的强硬表情有了不同的解释。

When she got her husband’s letter, she knew then at the bottom of her heart that everything would go on in the old way, that she would not have the strength of will to forego her position, to abandon her son, and to join her lover. The morning spent at Princess Tverskaya’s had confirmed her still more in this. But this interview was still of the utmost gravity for her. She hoped that this interview would transform her position, and save her. If on hearing this news he were to say to her resolutely, passionately, without an instant’s wavering: ‘Throw up everything and come with me!’ she would give up her son and go away with him. But this news had not produced what she had expected in him; he simply seemed as though he were resenting some affront.
当她收到丈夫的信时，她心底里就知道，一切都会照旧，她不会有坚强的意志去放弃自己的地位，抛弃儿子，去和爱人在一起。 。在特维尔斯卡娅公主家度过的那个早上让她更加确信了这一点。但这次采访对她来说仍然是最重要的。她希望这次采访能够改变她的处境，拯救她。如果他听到这个消息，坚决地、热情地、没有一丝动摇地对她说：“抛开一切，跟我走吧！”她就会放弃儿子，和他一起走。但这个消息并没有让他达到她所期望的那样。他看上去只是对某种侮辱感到不满。

‘It was not in the least painful to me. It happened of itself,’ she said irritably; ‘and see...’ she pulled her husband’s letter out of her glove.
“这对我来说一点也不痛苦。它自然而然地发生了，”她烦躁地说。 “你看……”她从手套里拿出丈夫的信。

‘I understand, I understand,’ he interrupted her, taking the letter, but not reading it, and trying to soothe her. ‘The one thing I longed for, the one thing I prayed for, was to cut short this position, so as to devote my life to your happiness.’
“我明白，我明白，”他打断了她的话，接过信，但没有读它，试图安抚她。 “我所渴望的一件事，我所祈祷的一件事，就是结束这个职位，以便为你的幸福奉献我的一生。”

‘Why do you tell me that?’ she said. ‘Do you suppose I can doubt it? If I doubted...’
“你为什么告诉我这个？”她说。 ‘你认为我可以怀疑吗？如果我怀疑的话……”

‘Who’s that coming?’ said Vronsky suddenly, pointing to two ladies walking towards them. ‘Perhaps they know us!’ and he hurriedly turned off, drawing her after him into a side path.
“谁来了？”渥伦斯基突然指着朝他们走来的两位女士问道。 “也许他们认识我们！”他赶紧转身，把她拉到一条小路上。

‘Oh, I don’t care!’ she said. Her lips were quivering. And he fancied that her eyes looked with strange fury at him from under the veil. ‘I tell you that’s not the point—I can’t doubt that; but see what he writes to me. Read it.’ She stood still again.
“哦，我不在乎！”她说。她的嘴唇在颤抖。他觉得她的眼睛从面纱下面带着奇怪的愤怒看着他。 “我告诉你这不是重点——我不能怀疑这一点；但看看他写给我的内容。读一下。”她又站了起来。

Again, just as at the first moment of hearing of her rupture with her husband, Vronsky, on reading the letter, was unconsciously carried away by the natural sensation aroused in him by his own relation to the betrayed husband. Now while he held his letter in his hands, he could not help picturing the challenge, which he would most likely find at home today or tomorrow, and the duel itself, in which, with the same cold and haughty expression that his face was assuming at this moment he would await the injured husband’s shot, after having himself fired into the air. And at that instant there flashed across his mind the thought of what Serpuhovskoy had just said to him, and what he had himself been thinking in the morning—that it was better not to bind himself —and he knew that this thought he could not tell her.
再次，就像第一次听到她与丈夫决裂的那一刻一样，渥伦斯基在读完这封信后，不自觉地被自己与被背叛的丈夫的关系所引起的自然感觉所吸引。现在，当他手里拿着信时，他情不自禁地想象着今天或明天他很可能会在家里遇到的挑战，以及决斗本身，在决斗中，他的脸上呈现出同样冷漠和傲慢的表情。此时此刻，他在向空中开枪后，正在等待受伤的丈夫开枪。就在那一刻，他的脑海中闪过谢尔普霍夫斯科伊刚才对他说的话，以及他自己早上一直在想的事情——最好不要束缚自己——他知道这个想法他无法说出来。她。

Having read the letter, he raised his eyes to her, and there was no determination in them. She saw at once that he had been thinking about it before by himself. She knew that whatever he might say to her, he would not say all he thought. And she knew that her last hope had failed her. This was not what she had been reckoning on.
读完信后，他抬眼看向她，眼神中没有坚定。她立刻看出他之前一直在自己思考这个问题。她知道，无论他对她说什么，他都不会说出他所想的一切。她知道她最后的希望落空了。这不是她所指望的。

‘You see the sort of man he is,’ she said, with a shaking voice; ‘he...’
“你看他是个什么样的人，”她声音颤抖地说。 '他...'

‘Forgive me, but I rejoice at it,’ Vronsky interrupted. ‘For God’s sake, let me finish!’ he added, his eyes imploring her to give him time to explain his words. ‘I rejoice, because things cannot, cannot possibly remain as he supposes.’
“请原谅，但我对此感到高兴，”渥伦斯基打断道。 “看在上帝的份上，让我说完！”他补充道，眼神恳求她给他时间解释他的话。 “我很高兴，因为事情不能、不可能像他想象的那样。”

‘Why can’t they?’ Anna said, restraining her tears, and obviously attaching no sort of consequence to what he said. She felt that her fate was sealed.
“为什么他们不能呢？”安娜强忍着泪水说道，显然并没有对他的话承担任何后果。她觉得自己的命运已经注定了。

Vronsky meant that after the duel—inevitable, he thought— things could not go on as before, but he said something different.
渥伦斯基的意思是，在决斗之后——他认为这是不可避免的——事情不能再像以前那样继续下去，但他说了不同的话。

‘It can’t go on. I hope that now you will leave him. I hope’— he was confused, and reddened—‘that you will let me arrange and plan our life. Tomorrow...’ he was beginning.
‘这不能再继续下去了。我希望你现在就离开他。我希望”——他感到困惑，脸红了——“你能让我安排和计划我们的生活。明天……”他开始说道。

She did not let him go on.
她没有让他继续说下去。

‘But my child!’ she shrieked. ‘You see what he writes! I should have to leave him, and I can’t and won’t do that.’
“但是我的孩子！”她尖叫道。 ‘你看他写的是什么！我应该离开他，但我不能也不会这么做。

‘But, for God’s sake, which is better?—leave your child, or keep up this degrading position?’
“但是，看在上帝的份上，哪个更好？——离开你的孩子，还是继续这种有辱人格的处境？”

‘To whom is it degrading?’
“这对谁来说是一种侮辱？”

‘To all, and most of all to you.’
“对所有人，尤其是对你。”

‘You say degrading...don’t say that. Those words have no meaning for me,’ she said in a shaking voice. She did not want him now to say what was untrue. She had nothing left her but his love, and she wanted to love him. ‘Don’t you understand that from the day I loved you everything has changed for me? For me there is one thing, and one thing only—your love. If that’s mine, I feel so exalted, so strong, that nothing can be humiliating to me. I am proud of my position, because...proud of being... proud....’ She could not say what she was proud of. Tears of shame and despair choked her utterance. She stood still and sobbed.
‘你说有辱人格……别这么说。这些话对我来说毫无意义，”她声音颤抖地说。她现在不想让他说出不真实的话。除了他的爱，她一无所有，她想爱他。 ‘你难道不明白，从我爱你的那天起，我的一切都改变了吗？对我来说只有一件事，而且只有一件事——你的爱。如果那是我的，我会感到如此崇高、如此坚强，没有什么可以羞辱我。我为自己的地位感到自豪，因为……为……自豪……”她说不出她为什么感到自豪。羞耻和绝望的泪水哽住了她的话语。她站着不动，抽泣着。

He felt, too, something swelling in his throat and twitching in his nose, and for the first time in his life he felt on the point of weeping. He could not have said exactly what it was touched him so. He felt sorry for her, and he felt he could not help her, and with that he knew that he was to blame for her wretchedness, and that he had done something wrong.
他还感到喉咙里有什么东西在肿胀，鼻子里在抽搐，这是他有生以来第一次感到快要哭了。他无法确切地说出是什么让他如此感动。他为她感到难过，他觉得自己帮不了她，因此他知道她的不幸是他造成的，他做错了事。

‘Is not a divorce possible?’ he said feebly. She shook her head, not answering. ‘Couldn’t you take your son, and still leave him?’
“离婚不可能吗？”他有气无力地说。她摇摇头，没有回答。 “你就不能带走你的儿子，然后离开他吗？”

‘Yes; but it all depends on him. Now I must go to him,’ she said shortly. Her presentiment that all would again go on in the old way had not deceived her.
'是的;但这一切都取决于他。现在我必须去找他了，”她简短地说。她预感到一切都会再次以旧方式继续下去，但她并没有欺骗她。

‘On Tuesday I shall be in Petersburg, and everything can be settled.’
“周二我将到达彼得堡，一切都可以解决。”

‘Yes,’ she said. ‘But don’t let us talk any more of it.’
“是的，”她说。 “但是别让我们再谈论这件事了。”

Anna’s carriage, which she had sent away, and ordered to come back to the little gate of the Vrede garden, drove up. Anna said good-bye to Vronsky, and drove home.
安娜送走并吩咐返回弗里德花园小门的马车又开过来了。安娜告别渥伦斯基，开车回家。

Chapter 23
第23章

On Monday there was the usual sitting of the Commission of the 2nd of June. Alexey Alexandrovitch walked into the hall where the sitting was held, greeted the members and the president, as usual, and sat down in his place, putting his hand on the papers laid ready before him. Among these papers lay the necessary evidence and a rough outline of the speech he intended to make. But he did not really need these documents. He remembered every point, and did not think it necessary to go over in his memory what he would say. He knew that when the time came, and when he saw his enemy facing him, and studiously endeavoring to assume an expression of indifference, his speech would flow of itself better than he could prepare it now. He felt that the import of his speech was of such magnitude that every word of it would have weight. Meantime, as he listened to the usual report, he had the most innocent and inoffensive air. No one, looking at his white hands, with their swollen veins and long fingers, so softly stroking the edges of the white paper that lay before him, and at the air of weariness with which his head drooped on one side, would have suspected that in a few minutes a torrent of words would flow from his lips that would arouse a fearful storm, set the members shouting and attacking one another, and force the president to call for order. When the report was over, Alexey Alexandrovitch announced in his subdued, delicate voice that he had several points to bring before the meeting in regard to the Commission for the Reorganization of the Native Tribes. All attention was turned upon him. Alexey Alexandrovitch cleared his throat, and not looking at his opponent, but selecting, as he always did while he was delivering his speeches, the first person sitting opposite him, an inoffensive little old man, who never had an opinion of any sort in the Commission, began to expound his views. When he reached the point about the fundamental and radical law, his opponent jumped up and began to protest. Stremov, who was also a member of the Commission, and also stung to the quick, began defending himself, and altogether a stormy sitting followed; but Alexey Alexandrovitch triumphed, and his motion was carried, three new commissions were appointed, and the next day in a certain Petersburg circle nothing else was talked of but this sitting. Alexey Alexandrovitch’s success had been even greater than he had anticipated.
周一，委员会于 6 月 2 日举行例行会议。阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇走进举行会议的大厅，像往常一样向议员和主席致意，然后坐在自己的位置上，把手放在面前准备好的文件上。这些文件中有必要的证据和他打算发表的演讲的粗略提纲。但他并不真正需要这些文件。他记住了每一点，并且认为没有必要在他的记忆中回顾他要说的话。他知道，到了那个时候，当他看到敌人面对着他，并刻意表现出冷漠的表情时，他的演讲就会自然而然地比他现在准备得更好。他觉得他的演讲意义重大，每一个字都有分量。与此同时，他在听着平常的报告时，脸上露出了最天真无邪的神情。看着他白皙的双手，青肿的血管和修长的手指，如此轻柔地抚摸着面前白纸的边缘，看着他低垂着头的疲倦神情，没有人会怀疑几分钟之内，他的嘴里就会滔滔不绝地滔滔不绝，激起一场可怕的风暴，让成员们大喊大叫，互相攻击，并迫使总统要求维持秩序。报告结束后，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇用他柔和而微妙的声音宣布，他有几个关于土著部落重组委员会的要点要向会议提出。所有的注意力都集中在他身上。 阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇清了清嗓子，没有看他的对手，而是选择了坐在他对面的第一个人，他是一个无害的小老头，他在演讲中从来没有发表过任何意见。委员会开始阐述自己的观点。当他说到基本的、激进的法律时，他的对手跳了起来并开始抗议。斯特列莫夫也是该委员会的成员，同样受到了刺痛，他开始为自己辩护，随后，一场风暴席卷而来。但阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇获胜了，他的动议得到了通过，任命了三个新的委员会，第二天，在彼得堡的某个圈子里，除了这次会议之外，没有其他任何事情被谈论。阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇的成功甚至超出了他的预期。

Next morning, Tuesday, Alexey Alexandrovitch, on waking up, recollected with pleasure his triumph of the previous day, and he could not help smiling, though he tried to appear indifferent, when the chief secretary of his department, anxious to flatter him, informed him of the rumors that had reached him concerning what had happened in the Commission.
第二天早上，星期二，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇醒来后，高兴地回忆起前一天的胜利，当他的部门的首席秘书急于奉承他时，他忍不住微笑，尽管他试图表现得漠不关心。他向他讲述了他收到的有关委员会发生的事情的谣言。

Absorbed in business with the chief secretary, Alexey Alexandrovitch had completely forgotten that it was Tuesday, the day fixed by him for the return of Anna Arkadyevna, and he was surprised and received a shock of annoyance when a servant came in to inform him of her arrival.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇全神贯注于首席秘书的事务，完全忘记了今天是星期二，他为安娜·阿尔卡季耶夫娜回来的日子定了。当一名仆人进来通知他她的情况时，他感到惊讶和恼怒到达。

Anna had arrived in Petersburg early in the morning; the carriage had been sent to meet her in accordance with her telegram, and so Alexey Alexandrovitch might have known of her arrival. But when she arrived, he did not meet her. She was told that he had not yet gone out, but was busy with his secretary. She sent word to her husband that she had come, went to her own room, and occupied herself in sorting out her things, expecting he would come to her. But an hour passed; he did not come. She went into the dining room on the pretext of giving some directions, and spoke loudly on purpose, expecting him to come out there; but he did not come, though she heard him go to the door of his study as he parted from the chief secretary. She knew that he usually went out quickly to his office, and she wanted to see him before that, so that their attitude to one another might be defined.
安娜一早就到达了彼得堡。马车是根据她的电报派来迎接她的，因此阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇可能知道她的到来。但当她到达时，他并没有见到她。得知他还没有出去，只是忙着陪秘书。她告诉丈夫她来了，然后就回到自己的房间，忙着整理自己的东西，期待他会来找她。但一个小时过去了；他没有来。她借口指路走进餐厅，故意大声说话，等他出来；但他没有来，尽管她听见他与首席秘书告别时走向书房门口。她知道他通常很快就去办公室，她想在那之前见见他，以便明确他们对彼此的态度。

She walked across the drawing room and went resolutely to him. When she went into his study he was in official uniform, obviously ready to go out, sitting at a little table on which he rested his elbows, looking dejectedly before him. She saw him before he saw her, and she saw that he was thinking of her.
她穿过客厅，毅然决然地走向他。当她走进他的书房时，他穿着官服，显然准备出去，坐在一张小桌子旁，胳膊肘搁在上面，沮丧地看着面前。在他看到她之前，她就看到了他，她看出他正在想念她。

On seeing her, he would have risen, but changed his mind, then his face flushed hotly—a thing Anna had never seen before, and he got up quickly and went to meet her, looking not at her eyes, but above them at her forehead and hair. He went up to her, took her by the hand, and asked her to sit down.
一看到她，他就想站起来，但他改变了主意，然后他的脸涨得通红——这是安娜以前从未见过的，他迅速站起来，迎向她，没有看她的眼睛，而是在眼睛上方看着她。额头和头发。他走到她面前，拉着她的手，请她坐下。

‘I am very glad you have come,’ he said, sitting down beside her, and obviously wishing to say something, he stuttered. Several times he tried to begin to speak, but stopped. In spite of the fact that, preparing herself for meeting him, she had schooled herself to despise and reproach him, she did not know what to say to him, and she felt sorry for him. And so the silence lasted for some time. ‘Is Seryozha quite well?’ he said, and not waiting for an answer, he added: ‘I shan’t be dining at home today, and I have got to go out directly.’
“我很高兴你能来，”他说道，在她旁边坐下，显然想要说什么，但他结巴了。他好几次想开口说话，但都停了下来。尽管在准备迎接他的时候，她已经训练自己鄙视他、责备他，但她不知道该对他说什么，她为他感到难过。于是沉默持续了一段时间。 “谢廖扎还好吗？”他不等回答就补充道，“我今天不在家吃饭，得直接出去。”

‘I had thought of going to Moscow,’ she said.
“我曾想过去莫斯科，”她说。

‘No, you did quite, quite right to come,’ he said, and was silent again.
“不，你来得非常非常正确，”他说，然后又沉默了。

Seeing that he was powerless to begin the conversation, she began herself.
看到他无力开口，她就自己开始了。

‘Alexey Alexandrovitch,’ she said, looking at him and not dropping her eyes under his persistent gaze at her hair, ‘I’m a guilty woman, I’m a bad woman, but I am the same as I was, as I told you then, and I have come to tell you that I can change nothing.’
“阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇，”她看着他说道，在他执着地注视着她的头发时，她的眼睛始终没有垂下来，“我是一个有罪的女人，我是一个坏女人，但我还是和以前一样，和我一样。”那时我就​​告诉过你，而我来是为了告诉你，我无法改变任何事情。”

‘I have asked you no question about that,’ he said, all at once, resolutely and with hatred looking her straight in the face; ‘that was as I had supposed.’ Under the influence of anger he apparently regained complete possession of all his faculties. ‘But as I told you then, and have written to you,’ he said in a thin, shrill voice, ‘I repeat now, that I am not bound to know this. I ignore it. Not all wives are so kind as you, to be in such a hurry to communicate such agreeable news to their husbands.’ He laid special emphasis on the word ‘agreeable.’ ‘I shall ignore it so long as the world knows nothing of it, so long as my name is not disgraced. And so I simply inform you that our relations must be just as they have always been, and that only in the event of your compromising me I shall be obliged to take steps to secure my honor.’
“关于这一点我没有问过你任何问题，”他突然说道，语气坚决，带着仇恨，直视着她的脸。 “正如我所料。”在愤怒的影响下，他显然完全恢复了所有的能力。 “但正如我当时告诉你的，也写信给你的，”他用尖细而尖利的声音说道，“我现在再说一遍，我没有义务知道这一点。我忽略它。不是所有的妻子都像你那么善良，这么急着把这么好的消息告诉自己的丈夫。”他特别强调“好”这个词。“只要全世界都一无所知，我就会忽略它。” ，只要我的名字不被玷污。因此，我只是告诉你，我们的关系必须像以前一样，只有在你损害我的情况下，我才有义务采取措施确保我的荣誉。

‘But our relations cannot be the same as always,’ Anna began in a timid voice, looking at him with dismay.
“但我们的关系不能再像以前那样了。”安娜惊愕地看着他，用胆怯的声音说道。

When she saw once more those composed gestures, heard that shrill, childish, and sarcastic voice, her aversion for him extinguished her pity for him, and she felt only afraid, but at all costs she wanted to make clear her position.
当她再次看到那些从容的姿态，听到那尖锐、幼稚、讽刺的声音时，她对他的厌恶浇灭了对他的怜悯，她只感到害怕，但无论如何她都想表明自己的立场。

‘I cannot be your wife while I...’ she began.
“我不能成为你的妻子，因为我……”她开始说道。

He laughed a cold and malignant laugh.
他笑得冷酷而恶毒。

‘The manner of life you have chosen is reflected, I suppose, in your ideas. I have too much respect or contempt, or both...I respect your past and despise your present...that I was far from the interpretation you put on my words.’
“我想，你选择的生活方式已经反映在你的想法中了。”我有太多的尊重或蔑视，或者两者兼而有之……我尊重你的过去，鄙视你的现在……我与你对我的话的解释相去甚远。

Anna sighed and bowed her head.
安娜叹了口气，低下了头。

‘Though indeed I fail to comprehend how, with the independence you show,’ he went on, getting hot, ‘—announcing your infidelity to your husband and seeing nothing reprehensible in it, apparently—you can see anything reprehensible in performing a wife’s duties in relation to your husband.’
“虽然我确实无法理解，以你所表现出的独立性，”他继续说，变得很热，“——宣布你对你丈夫的不忠，而且显然没有发现任何应受谴责的地方——你在履行妻子的职责时也能看到任何应受谴责的地方。”与你丈夫的关系。

‘Alexey Alexandrovitch! What is it you want of me?’
“阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇！你想要我做什么？

‘I want you not to meet that man here, and to conduct yourself so that neither the world nor the servants can reproach you...not to see him. That’s not much, I think. And in return you will enjoy all the privileges of a faithful wife without fulfilling her duties. That’s all I have to say to you. Now it’s time for me to go. I’m not dining at home.’ He got up and moved towards the door.
“我希望你不要在这里遇见那个人，并且要注意自己的行为，以便世界和仆人都不能责备你……不要见到他。我想这并不多。作为回报，你将享受忠实妻子的所有特权，而无需履行她的职责。这就是我要对你说的一切。现在我该走了。我不在家吃饭。”他起身朝门口走去。

Anna got up too. Bowing in silence, he let her pass before him.
安娜也起身了。他默默鞠了一躬，让她从自己面前走过。

Chapter 24
第24章

The night spent by Levin on the haycock did not pass without result for him. The way in which he had been managing his land revolted him and had lost all attraction for him. In spite of the magnificent harvest, never had there been, or, at least, never it seemed to him, had there been so many hindrances and so many quarrels between him and the peasants as that year, and the origin of these failures and this hostility was now perfectly comprehensible to him. The delight he had experienced in the work itself, and the consequent greater intimacy with the peasants, the envy he felt of them, of their life, the desire to adopt that life, which had been to him that night not a dream but an intention, the execution of which he had thought out in detail —all this had so transformed his view of the farming of the land as he had managed it, that he could not take his former interest in it, and could not help seeing that unpleasant relation between him and the workpeople which was the foundation of it all. The herd of improved cows such as Pava, the whole land ploughed over and enriched, the nine level fields surrounded with hedges, the two hundred and forty acres heavily manured, the seed sown in drills, and all the rest of it—it was all splendid if only the work had been done for themselves, or for themselves and comrades —people in sympathy with them. But he saw clearly now (his work on a book of agriculture, in which the chief element in husbandry was to have been the laborer, greatly assisted him in this) that the sort of farming he was carrying on was nothing but a cruel and stubborn struggle between him and the laborers, in which there was on one side—his side—a continual intense effort to change everything to a pattern he considered better; on the other side, the natural order of things. And in this struggle he saw that with immense expenditure of force on his side, and with no effort or even intention on the other side, all that was attained was that the work did not go to the liking of either side, and that splendid tools, splendid cattle and land were spoiled with no good to anyone. Worst of all, the energy expended on this work was not simply wasted. He could not help feeling now, since the meaning of this system had become clear to him, that the aim of his energy was a most unworthy one. In reality, what was the struggle about? He was struggling for every farthing of his share (and he could not help it, for he had only to relax his efforts, and he would not have had the money to pay his laborers’ wages), while they were only struggling to be able to do their work easily and agreeably, that is to say, as they were used to doing it. It was for his interests that every laborer should work as hard as possible, and that while doing so he should keep his wits about him, so as to try not to break the winnowing machines, the horse rakes, the thrashing machines, that he should attend to what he was doing. What the laborer wanted was to work as pleasantly as possible, with rests, and above all, carelessly and heedlessly, without thinking. That summer Levin saw this at every step. He sent the men to mow some clover for hay, picking out the worst patches where the clover was overgrown with grass and weeds and of no use for seed; again and again they mowed the best acres of clover, justifying themselves by the pretense that the bailiff had told them to, and trying to pacify him with the assurance that it would be splendid hay; but he knew that it was owing to those acres being so much easier to mow. He sent out a hay machine for pitching the hay—it was broken at the first row because it was dull work for a peasant to sit on the seat in front with the great wings waving above him. And he was told, ‘Don’t trouble, your honor, sure, the womenfolks will pitch it quick enough.’ The ploughs were practically useless, because it never occurred to the laborer to raise the share when he turned the plough, and forcing it round, he strained the horses and tore up the ground, and Levin was begged not to mind about it. The horses were allowed to stray into the wheat because not a single laborer would consent to be night-watchman, and in spite of orders to the contrary, the laborers insisted on taking turns for night duty, and Ivan, after working all day long, fell asleep, and was very penitent for his fault, saying, ‘Do what you will to me, your honor.’
莱文在干草堆上度过的这一夜对他来说并非没有收获。他管理土地的方式让他感到厌恶，并且对他失去了所有吸引力。尽管取得了丰收，但他和农民之间从来没有像那一年那样，或者至少在他看来从来没有像那一年那样，出现过如此多的障碍和如此多的争吵，以及这些失败和这次事件的根源。现在他完全可以理解敌意了。他在工作本身中体验到的快乐，以及随之而来的与农民更加亲密的关系，他对他们和他们的生活的嫉妒，对过那种生活的渴望，那天晚上这对他来说不是一个梦想，而是一个意图，他已经详细考虑过的执行情况——所有这一切都改变了他对土地耕种的看法，因为他管理它，他无法再恢复以前对它的兴趣，并且无法避免看到那种不愉快的关系。他和工人之间的关系是这一切的基础。像帕瓦这样的改良牛群，整片土地都被犁过，变得肥沃了，九块平坦的田地周围环绕着树篱，两百四十英亩的土地施了厚重的肥料，播种机里的种子，以及所有其他的东西——这一切都是如此。如果这项工作是为了他们自己，或者为了他们自己和同志们——同情他们的人们而完成的，那就太好了。 但他现在清楚地看到（他写的一本农业书，其中农业的主要要素是劳动者，在这方面对他有很大帮助），他所从事的农业只不过是一种残酷和顽固的农业。他和工人们之间的斗争，其中一方面——他的一方面——不断地努力将一切改变为他认为更好的模式；另一方面，事物的自然秩序。在这场斗争中，他看到，自己一方耗费了巨大的武力，而另一方却毫无努力，甚至没有任何意图，所得到的只是工作没有得到任何一方的喜欢，而那些出色的工具，美丽的牲畜和土地被破坏了，对任何人都没有好处。最糟糕的是，这项工作所花费的精力并没有被简单地浪费掉。他现在不禁感到，既然这个系统的意义对他来说已经很清楚了，他的精力的目的是最不值得的。事实上，这场斗争是为了什么？他正在为自己那一份的每一分钱而奋斗（他也无能为力，因为他只要放松努力，他就没有钱支付工人的工资），而他们只是为了能够轻松愉快地完成工作，也就是说，按照他们习惯的方式完成工作。为了自己的利益，每个劳动者都应该尽可能地努力工作，并且在工作的同时要保持头脑清醒，尽量不弄坏扬场机、马耙、打谷机，他应该关注他正在做的事情。劳动者想要的是尽可能愉快地工作，休息，最重要的是，粗心、漫不经心、不加思考。那年夏天，莱文的每一步都看到了这一点。 他派人去割一些三叶草当干草，挑出最差的一片，那里的三叶草长满了青草和杂草，对种子没有用处。他们一次又一次地割掉最好的几英亩三叶草，假装法警告诉他们这样做，为自己辩护，并试图安抚他，保证这将是极好的干草。但他知道这是因为那些土地更容易割草。他派出了一台干草机来撒干草——它在第一排就坏了，因为对于一个农民来说，坐在前面的座位上、巨大的翅膀在头顶上挥舞是一项乏味的工作。有人告诉他：“别麻烦了，法官大人，当然，女人们很快就会犁地。”犁实际上毫无用处，因为劳动者在转动犁时从来没有想到要提高犁铧，并且强迫犁犁。围绕着它，他拉紧了马匹，撕裂了地面，莱文被恳求不要介意。马匹被允许误入麦田，因为没有一个工人愿意当守夜人，尽管有相反的命令，工人们坚持轮流值夜，而伊万在工作了一整天后，睡着了，他为自己的过错深感悔恨，说道：“法官大人，你想怎样待我就怎样吧。”’

They killed three of the best calves by letting them into the clover aftermath without care as to their drinking, and nothing would make the men believe that they had been blown out by the clover, but they told him, by way of consolation, that one of his neighbors had lost a hundred and twelve head of cattle in three days. All this happened, not because anyone felt ill-will to Levin or his farm; on the contrary, he knew that they liked him, thought him a simple gentleman (their highest praise); but it happened simply because all they wanted was to work merrily and carelessly, and his interests were not only remote and incomprehensible to them, but fatally opposed to their most just claims. Long before, Levin had felt dissatisfaction with his own position in regard to the land. He saw where his boat leaked, but he did not look for the leak, perhaps purposely deceiving himself. (Nothing would be left him if he lost faith in it.) But now he could deceive himself no longer. The farming of the land, as he was managing it, had become not merely unattractive but revolting to him, and he could take no further interest in it.
他们杀死了三头最好的小牛，让他们进入三叶草的余波，不顾他们的饮酒，没有什么能让这些人相信他们是被三叶草吹倒的，但他们告诉他，作为安慰，一头他的邻居在三天内损失了一百一十二头牛。这一切的发生，并不是因为有人对莱文或他的农场怀有恶意；而是因为有人对他的农场抱有恶意。相反，他知道他们喜欢他，认为他是一个简单的绅士（他们的最高评价）；但这只是因为他们只想快乐而无忧无虑地工作，而他的利益对他们来说不仅遥远和难以理解，而且与他们最公正的主张致命地相反。很久以前，莱文就对自己在这片土地上的立场感到不满。他看到了他的船漏水的地方，但他没有去寻找漏水处，也许是故意欺骗自己。 （如果他对此失去信心，他将一无所有。） 但现在他不能再欺骗自己了。当他管理土地时，土地的耕作不仅变得没有吸引力，而且让他感到厌恶，他对它不再有兴趣。

To this now was joined the presence, only twenty-five miles off, of Kitty Shtcherbatskaya, whom he longed to see and could not see. Darya Alexandrovna Oblonskaya had invited him, when he was over there, to come; to come with the object of renewing his offer to her sister, who would, so she gave him to understand, accept him now. Levin himself had felt on seeing Kitty Shtcherbatskaya that he had never ceased to love her; but he could not go over to the Oblonskys’, knowing she was there. The fact that he had made her an offer, and she had refused him, had placed an insuperable barrier between her and him. ‘I can’t ask her to be my wife merely because she can’t be the wife of the man she wanted to marry,’ he said to himself. The thought of this made him cold and hostile to her. ‘I should not be able to speak to her without a feeling of reproach; I could not look at her without resentment; and she will only hate me all the more, as she’s bound to. And besides, how can I now, after what Darya Alexandrovna told me, go to see them? Can I help showing that I know what she told me? And me to go magnanimously to forgive her, and have pity on her! Me go through a performance before her of forgiving, and deigning to bestow my love on her!... What induced Darya Alexandrovna to tell me that? By chance I might have seen her, then everything would have happened of itself; but, as it is, it’s out of the question, out of the question!’
现在，距离他只有二十五英里的基蒂·谢尔巴茨卡娅（Kitty Shtcherbatskaya）也出现在了这里，他渴望见到她，却看不见。当他在那儿时，达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜·奥布隆斯卡娅邀请他来。他来的目的是向她姐姐重申他的提议，她让他明白，她现在就会接受他。莱文本人在见到基蒂·谢尔巴茨卡娅时就感到自己从未停止过对她的爱。但他不能去奥布朗斯基家，因为他知道她在那里。他向她提出要约，而她拒绝了他，这一事实在她和他之间设置了不可逾越的障碍。 “我不能仅仅因为她不能成为她想结婚的男人的妻子而要求她成为我的妻子，”他对自己说。一想到这个，他就对她冷漠而充满敌意。 “我和她说话时不应该感到受责备；我无法不带着怨恨地看着她；她只会更加恨我，这是她注定的。此外，在达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜告诉我之后，我现在怎么才能去看他们呢？我可以帮忙表明我知道她告诉我的事情吗？而我则要大度地去原谅她，怜悯她！我在她面前表现出宽恕，并屈尊向她表达我的爱！……是什么促使达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜告诉我这些？碰巧我可能会见到她，那么一切就会自然而然地发生了；但事实上，这是不可能的，不可能的！”

Darya Alexandrovna sent him a letter, asking him for a side-saddle for Kitty’s use. ‘I’m told you have a side-saddle,’ she wrote to him; ‘I hope you will bring it over yourself.’
达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜（Darya Alexandrovna）给他写了一封信，要求他提供一个供凯蒂使用的侧鞍。 “我听说你有一个侧鞍，”她写信给他； “我希望你能自己解决这个问题。”

This was more than he could stand. How could a woman of any intelligence, of any delicacy, put her sister in such a humiliating position! He wrote ten notes, and tore them all up, and sent the saddle without any reply. To write that he would go was impossible, because he could not go; to write that he could not come because something prevented him, or that he would be away, that was still worse. He sent the saddle without an answer, and with a sense of having done something shameful; he handed over all the now revolting business of the estate to the bailiff, and set off next day to a remote district to see his friend Sviazhsky, who had splendid marshes for grouse in his neighborhood, and had lately written to ask him to keep a long-standing promise to stay with him. The grouse-marsh, in the Surovsky district, had long tempted Levin, but he had continually put off this visit on account of his work on the estate. Now he was glad to get away from the neighborhood of the Shtcherbatskys, and still more from his farm work, especially on a shooting expedition, which always in trouble served as the best consolation.
这超出了他的承受能力。一个再聪明、再温柔的女人，怎么能让自己的妹妹落到如此屈辱的地步！他写了十张纸条，然后把它们全部撕碎，寄出马鞍，没有任何答复。要写他会去是不可能的，因为他不能去。如果写他不能来是因为有事阻止他，或者他要离开，那就更糟糕了。他送来马鞍，却没有得到任何答复，还带着一种做了什么可耻之事的感觉。他把庄园里现在所有令人反感的事务都交给了法警，第二天出发去一个偏僻的地区去见他的朋友斯维亚日斯基，他的附近有一片适合松鸡的美丽沼泽，最近还写信要求他保留一个长久以来的承诺，会和他在一起。苏罗夫斯基区的松鸡沼泽长期以来一直吸引着莱文，但由于他在庄园里的工作，他一直推迟这次访问。现在他很高兴能够离开谢尔巴茨基一家的邻居，更不用说他的农活了，尤其是在一次射击探险中，总是遇到麻烦是最好的安慰。

Chapter 25
第25章

In the Surovsky district there was no railway nor service of post horses, and Levin drove there with his own horses in his big, old-fashioned carriage.
苏罗夫斯基地区没有铁路，也没有邮政马匹服务，莱文用他自己的马匹开着他的老式大马车前往那里。

He stopped halfway at a well-to-do peasant’s to feed his horses. A bald, well-preserved old man, with a broad, red beard, gray on his cheeks, opened the gate, squeezing against the gatepost to let the three horses pass. Directing the coachman to a place under the shed in the big, clean, tidy yard, with charred, old-fashioned ploughs in it, the old man asked Levin to come into the parlor. A cleanly dressed young woman, with clogs on her bare feet, was scrubbing the floor in the new outer room. She was frightened of the dog, that ran in after Levin, and uttered a shriek, but began laughing at her own fright at once when she was told the dog would not hurt her. Pointing Levin with her bare arm to the door into the parlor, she bent down again, hiding her handsome face, and went on scrubbing.
他在一个富裕农民家中途停下来喂马。一个秃顶、保养得很好、留着宽大的红胡子、脸颊灰白的老人打开了大门，挤在门柱上让三匹马通过。老人把车夫引到干净整洁的大院子里的棚子下，里面放着烧焦的老式犁，请莱文进客厅。一个衣着干净的年轻女子，光着脚踩着木屐，正在新的外屋里擦地板。她害怕追着莱文跑来的狗，发出一声尖叫，但当她被告知狗不会伤害她时，她立即开始嘲笑自己的恐惧。她用赤裸的手臂指着莱文进入客厅的门，然后又弯下腰，遮住她英俊的脸，继续擦洗。

‘Would you like the samovar?’ she asked.
“你想要茶炊吗？”她问。

‘Yes, please.’
'是的，请。'

The parlor was a big room, with a Dutch stove, and a screen dividing it into two. Under the holy pictures stood a table painted in patterns, a bench, and two chairs. Near the entrance was a dresser full of crockery. The shutters were closed, there were few flies, and it was so clean that Levin was anxious that Laska, who had been running along the road and bathing in puddles, should not muddy the floor, and ordered her to a place in the corner by the door. After looking round the parlor, Levin went out in the back yard. The good-looking young woman in clogs, swinging the empty pails on the yoke, ran on before him to the well for water.
客厅很大，有一个荷兰炉子，还有一个屏风将它分成两部分。圣像下面放着一张画有图案的桌子、一张长凳和两把椅子。入口附近有一个装满陶器的梳妆台。百叶窗关着，苍蝇很少，而且干净得让莱文担心一直在路边跑步、在水坑里洗澡的拉斯卡不要弄脏地板，并命令她到角落里的一个地方。门。莱文环顾客厅后，走到后院。那个穿着木屐的漂亮年轻女子，甩着轭上的空桶，在他前面跑到井边打水。

‘Look sharp, my girl!’ the old man shouted after her, good-humoredly, and he went up to Levin. ‘Well, sir, are you going to Nikolay Ivanovitch Sviazhsky? His honor comes to us too,’ he began, chatting, leaning his elbows on the railing of the steps. In the middle of the old man’s account of his acquaintance with Sviazhsky, the gates creaked again, and laborers came into the yard from the fields, with wooden ploughs and harrows. The horses harnessed to the ploughs and harrows were sleek and fat. The laborers were obviously of the household: two were young men in cotton shirts and caps, the two others were hired laborers in homespun shirts, one an old man, the other a young fellow. Moving off from the steps, the old man went up to the horses and began unharnessing them.
“小心点，我的姑娘！”老人在她身后幽默地喊道，然后走到莱文跟前。 “那么，先生，您要去尼古拉·伊万诺维奇·斯维亚日斯基吗？他的荣誉也降临在我们身上，”他开始聊天，手肘靠在台阶的栏杆上。老人讲述他与斯维亚日斯基的相识时，大门再次嘎吱作响，工人们拿着木犁和耙子从地里来到院子里。犁地和耙子上套着的马匹又光滑又肥硕。那些劳工显然是家里人：两个是穿着棉衫、戴着帽子的年轻人，另外两个是穿着土布衫的雇工，一个是老人，一个是年轻人。老人下了台阶，走到马跟前，开始解马具。

‘What have they been ploughing?’ asked Levin.
“他们在耕什么？”莱文问。

‘Ploughing up the potatoes. We rent a bit of land too. Fedot, don’t let out the gelding, but take it to the trough, and we’ll put the other in harness.’
‘犁土豆。我们也租了一点土地。费多，别把那匹骟马放出来，把它带到马槽里，我们会把另一匹骟马套上挽具。”

‘Oh, father, the ploughshares I ordered, has he brought them along?’ asked the big, healthy-looking fellow, obviously the old man’s son.
“哦，父亲，我订购的犁头，他带来了吗？”那个看起来很健康的大个子问道，显然是老人的儿子。

‘There...in the outer room,’ answered the old man, bundling together the harness he had taken off, and flinging it on the ground. ‘You can put them on, while they have dinner.’
“那里……在外屋里。”老人回答道，把脱下来的挽具捆在一起，扔在地上。 “你可以在他们吃晚饭的时候穿上它们。”

The good-looking young woman came into the outer room with the full pails dragging at her shoulders. More women came on the scene from somewhere, young and handsome, middle-aged, old and ugly, with children and without children.
漂亮的少妇肩上拖着满满的水桶走进外屋。不知从什么地方涌来了更多的女人，有年轻漂亮的，有中年的，有老丑的，有孩子的，没有孩子的。

The samovar was beginning to sing; the laborers and the family, having disposed of the horses, came in to dinner. Levin, getting his provisions out of his carriage, invited the old man to take tea with him.
茶炊开始唱歌；工人和家人处理完马匹后，进来吃晚饭。列文从马车上拿出食物，邀请老人一起喝茶。

‘Well, I have had some today already,’ said the old man, obviously accepting the invitation with pleasure. ‘But just a glass for company.’
“嗯，我今天已经吃了一些了。”老人说道，显然很高兴地接受了邀请。 “但只是为公司喝一杯。”

Over their tea Levin heard all about the old man’s farming. Ten years before, the old man had rented three hundred acres from the lady who owned them, and a year ago he had bought them and rented another three hundred from a neighboring landowner. A small part of the land—the worst part—he let out for rent, while a hundred acres of arable land he cultivated himself with his family and two hired laborers. The old man complained that things were doing badly. But Levin saw that he simply did so from a feeling of propriety, and that his farm was in a flourishing condition. If it had been unsuccessful he would not have bought land at thirty-five roubles the acre, he would not have married his three sons and a nephew, he would not have rebuilt twice after fires, and each time on a larger scale. In spite of the old man’s complaints, it was evident that he was proud, and justly proud, of his prosperity, proud of his sons, his nephew, his sons’ wives, his horses and his cows, and especially of the fact that he was keeping all this farming going. From his conversation with the old man, Levin thought he was not averse to new methods either. He had planted a great many potatoes, and his potatoes, as Levin had seen driving past, were already past flowering and beginning to die down, while Levin’s were only just coming into flower. He earthed up his potatoes with a modern plough borrowed from a neighboring landowner. He sowed wheat. The trifling fact that, thinning out his rye, the old man used the rye he thinned out for his horses, specially struck Levin. How many times had Levin seen this splendid fodder wasted, and tried to get it saved; but always it had turned out to be impossible. The peasant got this done, and he could not say enough in praise of it as food for the beasts.
莱文一边喝茶，一边听说了老人种田的全部情况。十年前，老人从拥有这些土地的女士那里租了三百英亩土地，一年前，他买下了这些土地，并从邻近的地主那里又租了三百英亩土地。他把一小部分土地——最糟糕的部分——出租出去，自己和家人以及两个雇工一起耕种一百英亩的耕地。老人抱怨事情进展得很糟糕。但莱文看出他这样做只是出于一种分寸感，而且他的农场正处于蓬勃发展的状态。如果不成功，他就不会以每英亩三十五卢布的价格购买土地，他就不会娶他的三个儿子和一个侄子，他就不会在火灾后进行两次重建，而且每次都规模更大。尽管老人抱怨不已，但很明显，他对自己的繁荣感到自豪，而且理所当然地感到自豪，为他的儿子、侄子、儿媳妇、马和牛感到自豪，尤其是他为自己的财富感到自豪。使所有这些农业继续进行。从与老人的谈话来看，莱文认为他也不反对新方法。他种了很多土豆，正如莱文开车经过时看到的那样，他的土豆已经过了花期，开始枯死，而莱文的土豆才刚刚开花。他用从邻近地主那里借来的现代化犁给土豆培土。他播种了小麦。老人在稀疏黑麦时，用他稀疏的黑麦来养马，这件小事特别让莱文感到震惊。莱文有多少次看到这种美妙的饲料被浪费了，并试图挽救它；但事实总是证明这是不可能的。农民完成了这件事，他对它作为野兽的食物赞不绝口。

‘What have the wenches to do? They carry it out in bundles to the roadside, and the cart brings it away.’
‘那些姑娘们要做什么？他们把它成捆地运到路边，然后用车把它运走。

‘Well, we landowners can’t manage well with our laborers,’ said Levin, handing him a glass of tea.
“好吧，我们地主不能很好地管理我们的工人，”莱文递给他一杯茶说道。

‘Thank you,’ said the old man, and he took the glass, but refused sugar, pointing to a lump he had left. ‘They’re simple destruction,’ said he. ‘Look at Sviazhsky’s, for instance. We know what the land’s like—first-rate, yet there’s not much of a crop to boast of. It’s not looked after enough—that’s all it is!’
“谢谢。”老人接过杯子，但指着他留下的一块，拒绝加糖。 “它们只是简单的破坏，”他说。 “例如，看看斯维亚日斯基的作品。我们知道这片土地的情况——一流，但没有什么值得夸耀的收成。它没有得到足够的照顾——仅此而已！

‘But you work your land with hired laborers?’
“但是你雇了雇工在你的土地上耕种吗？”

‘We’re all peasants together. We go into everything ourselves. If a man’s no use, he can go, and we can manage by ourselves.’
“我们都是农民。我们亲自参与所有事情。如果一个人没有用，他可以走，我们自己应付。

‘Father, Finogen wants some tar,’ said the young woman in the clogs, coming in.
“父亲，菲诺根想要一些焦油，”穿木屐的年轻女子走进来说道。

‘Yes, yes, that’s how it is, sir!’ said the old man, getting up, and crossing himself deliberately, he thanked Levin and went out.
“是的，是的，是这样的，先生！”老人站起来，故意在胸前画了十字，谢过莱文，然后出去了。

When Levin went into the kitchen to call his coachman he saw the whole family at dinner. The women were standing up waiting on them. The young, sturdy-looking son was telling something funny with his mouth full of pudding, and they were all laughing, the woman in the clogs, who was pouring cabbage soup into a bowl, laughing most merrily of all.
当莱文走进厨房打电话给马车夫时，他看到全家人正在吃晚饭。妇女们站起来等待他们。年轻壮实的儿子嘴里塞满了布丁，正在讲一些有趣的事情，大家都在笑，其中穿木屐的女人正在往碗里倒白菜汤，笑得最开心。

Very probably the good-looking face of the young woman in the clogs had a good deal to do with the impression of well-being this peasant household made upon Levin, but the impression was so strong that Levin could never get rid of it. And all the way from the old peasant’s to Sviazhsky’s he kept recalling this peasant farm as though there were something in this impression that demanded his special attention.
很可能，这个穿木屐的年轻女子的漂亮脸庞给莱文留下了这个农家幸福的印象，但这种印象太强烈了，莱文永远无法摆脱它。从老农民那里到斯维亚日斯基那里，他一直在回忆这个农民农场，仿佛这个印象中有什么东西需要他特别注意。

Chapter 26
第26章

Sviazhsky was the marshal of his district. He was five years older than Levin, and had long been married. His sister-in-law, a young girl Levin liked very much, lived in his house; and Levin knew that Sviazhsky and his wife would have greatly liked to marry the girl to him. He knew this with certainty, as so-called eligible young men always know it, though he could never have brought himself to speak of it to anyone; and he knew too that, although he wanted to get married, and although by every token this very attractive girl would make an excellent wife, he could no more have married her, even if he had not been in love with Kitty Shtcherbatskaya, than he could have flown up to the sky. And this knowledge poisoned the pleasure he had hoped to find in the visit to Sviazhsky.
斯维亚日斯基是他所在地区的元帅。他比莱文大五岁，而且早已结婚了。他的嫂子，一个莱文非常喜欢的年轻女孩，住在他家里。列文知道斯维亚日斯基和他的妻子非常愿意把这个女孩嫁给他。他确信这一点，正如所谓合格的年轻人总是知道的那样，尽管他永远不可能向任何人谈论这一点。他也知道，虽然他想结婚，尽管从各方面来看，这个非常迷人的女孩会成为一个优秀的妻子，但他不可能娶她，即使他没有爱上基蒂·谢尔巴茨卡娅，就像他不能娶她一样。本来可以飞上天的。这些知识毒害了他原本希望在访问斯维亚日斯基中找到的乐趣。

On getting Sviazhsky’s letter with the invitation for shooting, Levin had immediately thought of this; but in spite of it he had made up his mind that Sviazhsky’s having such views for him was simply his own groundless supposition, and so he would go, all the same. Besides, at the bottom of his heart he had a desire to try himself, put himself to the test in regard to this girl. The Sviazhskys’ home-life was exceedingly pleasant, and Sviazhsky himself, the best type of man taking part in local affairs that Levin knew, was very interesting to him.
收到斯维亚日斯基邀请拍摄的信后，莱文立刻想到了这一点；但尽管如此，他还是下定决心，斯维亚日斯基对他的这种看法只是他自己毫无根据的假设，所以他还是要去。而且，他内心深处也很想在这个女孩身上尝试一下，考验一下自己。斯维亚日斯基一家的家庭生活非常愉快，斯维亚日斯基本人也是列文认识的最善于参与当地事务的人，他对他也很感兴趣。

Sviazhsky was one of those people, always a source of wonder to Levin, whose convictions, very logical though never original, go one way by themselves, while their life, exceedingly definite and firm in its direction, goes its way quite apart and almost always in direct contradiction to their convictions. Sviazhsky was an extremely advanced man. He despised the nobility, and believed the mass of the nobility to be secretly in favor of serfdom, and only concealing their views from cowardice. He regarded Russia as a ruined country, rather after the style of Turkey, and the government of Russia as so bad that he never permitted himself to criticize its doings seriously, and yet he was a functionary of that government and a model marshal of nobility, and when he drove about he always wore the cockade of office and the cap with the red band. He considered human life only tolerable abroad, and went abroad to stay at every opportunity, and at the same time he carried on a complex and improved system of agriculture in Russia, and with extreme interest followed everything and knew everything that was being done in Russia. He considered the Russian peasant as occupying a stage of development intermediate between the ape and the man, and at the same time in the local assemblies no one was readier to shake hands with the peasants and listen to their opinion. He believed neither in God nor the devil, but was much concerned about the question of the improvement of the clergy and the maintenance of their revenues, and took special trouble to keep up the church in his village.
斯维亚日斯基就是这些人中的一员，总是让莱文感到惊奇，他的信念虽然不是原创的，但却非常合乎逻辑，它们自己走着一条路，而他们的生活，在其方向上极其明确和坚定，却完全不同，而且几乎总是走自己的路。与他们的信念直接矛盾。斯维亚日斯基是一位极其先进的人。他鄙视贵族，认为贵族群众暗中赞成农奴制，只是出于怯懦才隐瞒自己的观点。他认为俄罗斯是一个被毁坏的国家，就像土耳其的风格一样，俄罗斯政府非常糟糕，他从来不允许自己认真地批评它的行为，但他是那个政府的官员和模范贵族元帅，当他开车四处走动时，他总是戴着官帽和带有红色带子的帽子。他认为人的生命只有在国外才可以忍受，一有机会就出国定居，同时他在俄罗斯进行了复杂和改进的农业系统，并以极大的兴趣关注并了解俄罗斯发生的一切。 。他认为俄罗斯农民处于猿与人之间的中间发展阶段，同时在地方议会中没有人愿意与农民握手并听取他们的意见。他既不相信上帝，也不相信魔鬼，但非常关心神职人员的改善和收入的维持问题，并特别费力地维持村里的教堂。

On the woman question he was on the side of the extreme advocates of complete liberty for women, and especially their right to labor. But he lived with his wife on such terms that their affectionate childless home life was the admiration of everyone, and arranged his wife’s life so that she did nothing and could do nothing but share her husband’s efforts that her time should pass as happily and as agreeably as possible.
在妇女问题上，他站在妇女完全自由、特别是劳动权的极端倡导者一边。但他和妻子的生活却是这样的，他们恩爱无子的家庭生活是人人羡慕的，他把妻子的生活安排得让她什么也不做也不能做，只能分担丈夫的努力，让她的日子过得幸福、安逸。尽可能。

If it had not been a characteristic of Levin’s to put the most favorable interpretation on people, Sviazhsky’s character would have presented no doubt or difficulty to him: he would have said to himself, ‘a fool or a knave,’ and everything would have seemed clear. But he could not say ‘a fool,’ because Sviazhsky was unmistakably clever, and moreover, a highly cultivated man, who was exceptionally modest over his culture. There was not a subject he knew nothing of. But he did not display his knowledge except when he was compelled to do so. Still less could Levin say that he was a knave, as Sviazhsky was unmistakably an honest, good-hearted, sensible man, who worked good-humoredly, keenly, and perseveringly at his work; he was held in high honor by everyone about him, and certainly he had never consciously done, and was indeed incapable of doing, anything base.
如果不是列文的一个特点是对人作出最有利的解释，斯维亚日斯基的性格就会给他带来毫无疑问或困难：他会对自己说，“一个傻瓜或一个无赖”，一切都会显得如此清除。但他不能说“傻瓜”，因为斯维亚日斯基无疑是一个聪明人，而且是一个有很高教养的人，他对自己的文化非常谦虚。没有一个科目是他一无所知的。但除非迫不得已，否则他不会展示自己的知识。莱文更不能说他是个无赖，因为斯维亚日斯基无疑是一个诚实、善良、明智的人，他工作时心情愉快，热心而坚持不懈；他的工作很顺利。他周围的每个人都给予他很高的荣誉，当然他从来没有有意识地做过，也确实没有能力做任何卑鄙的事情。

Levin tried to understand him, and could not understand him, and looked at him and his life as at a living enigma.
莱文试图理解他，却无法理解他，把他和他的生活视为一个活生生的谜。

Levin and he were very friendly, and so Levin used to venture to sound Sviazhsky, to try to get at the very foundation of his view of life; but it was always in vain. Every time Levin tried to penetrate beyond the outer chambers of Sviazhsky’s mind, which were hospitably open to all, he noticed that Sviazhsky was slightly disconcerted; faint signs of alarm were visible in his eyes, as though he were afraid Levin would understand him, and he would give him a kindly, good-humored repulse.
莱文和他非常友好，因此莱文常常冒险向斯维亚日斯基探听，试图了解他的人生观的基础。但总是徒劳。每当莱文试图穿透斯维亚日斯基心智的外室（那里对所有人都热情地开放）时，他注意到斯维亚日斯基有点不知所措。他的眼里闪现出一丝惊恐的神色，仿佛生怕列文会理解他，而他会友善地、幽默地拒绝他。

Just now, since his disenchantment with farming, Levin was particularly glad to stay with Sviazhsky. Apart from the fact that the sight of this happy and affectionate couple, so pleased with themselves and everyone else, and their well-ordered home had always a cheering effect on Levin, he felt a longing, now that he was so dissatisfied with his own life, to get at that secret in Sviazhsky that gave him such clearness, definiteness, and good courage in life. Moreover, Levin knew that at Sviazhsky’s he should meet the landowners of the neighborhood, and it was particularly interesting for him just now to hear and take part in those rural conversations concerning crops, laborers’ wages, and so on, which, he was aware, are conventionally regarded as something very low, but which seemed to him just now to constitute the one subject of importance. ‘It was not, perhaps, of importance in the days of serfdom, and it may not be of importance in England. In both cases the conditions of agriculture are firmly established; but among us now, when everything has been turned upside down and is only just taking shape, the question what form these conditions will take is the one question of importance in Russia,’ thought Levin.
刚才，由于对农业不再抱有幻想，列文特别高兴能和斯维亚日斯基待在一起。除了看到这对幸福而恩爱的夫妇，对自己和其他人都如此满意，以及他们井然有序的家总是让莱文感到欢呼之外，现在他对自己的家如此不满意，他感到一种渴望。生活中，去了解斯维亚日斯基身上的那个秘密，正是这个秘密给了他生活中如此清晰、明确和勇气。而且，莱文知道，在斯维亚日斯基家，他应该会见附近的地主，而且刚才听到并参加那些关于农作物、工人工资等问题的农村谈话对他来说特别有趣，他知道这些。传统上被认为是非常低级的东西，但对他来说，这似乎构成了一个重要的主题。 “也许，这在农奴制时代并不重要，在英国也可能不重要。在这两种情况下，农业条件都已牢固确立；但现在在我们中间，当一切都被颠倒过来并且才刚刚形成时，这些条件将采取什么形式的问题是俄罗斯唯一重要的问题，”莱文认为。

The shooting turned out to be worse than Levin had expected. The marsh was dry and there were no grouse at all. He walked about the whole day and only brought back three birds, but to make up for that—he brought back, as he always did from shooting, an excellent appetite, excellent spirits, and that keen, intellectual mood which with him always accompanied violent physical exertion. And while out shooting, when he seemed to be thinking of nothing at all, suddenly the old man and his family kept coming back to his mind, and the impression of them seemed to claim not merely his attention, but the solution of some question connected with them.
枪击事件比莱文预想的还要严重。沼泽地很干，根本没有松鸡。他走了一整天，只带回了三只鸟，但为了弥补这一点，他带回来了，就像他每次打猎时所做的那样，胃口极佳，精神饱满，还有那种总是伴随着暴力的敏锐、理智的情绪。体力消耗。当他出去拍摄时，当他似乎什么都不想的时候，突然，老人和他的家人不断地出现在他的脑海里，他们的印象似乎不仅吸引了他的注意力，而且还解决了一些相关的问题。跟他们。

In the evening at tea, two landowners who had come about some business connected with a wardship were of the party, and the interesting conversation Levin had been looking forward to sprang up.
晚上喝茶的时候，有两个地主来参加与监护权有关的事务，莱文一直期待着一场有趣的谈话。

Levin was sitting beside his hostess at the tea table, and was obliged to keep up a conversation with her and her sister, who was sitting opposite him. Madame Sviazhskaya was a round-faced, fair-haired, rather short woman, all smiles and dimples. Levin tried through her to get a solution of the weighty enigma her husband presented to his mind; but he had not complete freedom of ideas, because he was in an agony of embarrassment. This agony of embarrassment was due to the fact that the sister-in-law was sitting opposite to him, in a dress, specially put on, as he fancied, for his benefit, cut particularly open, in the shape of a trapeze, on her white bosom. This quadrangular opening, in spite of the bosom’s being very white, or just because it was very white, deprived Levin of the full use of his faculties. He imagined, probably mistakenly, that this low-necked bodice had been made on his account, and felt that he had no right to look at it, and tried not to look at it; but he felt that he was to blame for the very fact of the low-necked bodice having been made. It seemed to Levin that he had deceived someone, that he ought to explain something, but that to explain it was impossible, and for that reason he was continually blushing, was ill at ease and awkward. His awkwardness infected the pretty sister-in-law too. But their hostess appeared not to observe this, and kept purposely drawing her into the conversation.
莱文坐在茶几旁的女主人旁边，不得不与她和坐在他对面的妹妹保持交谈。斯维亚日斯卡娅夫人是一位圆脸、金发、身材矮小的女人，笑容满面，脸上有酒窝。莱文试图通过她来解开她丈夫心中的一个沉重的谜团。但他没有完全的思想自由，因为他处于尴尬的痛苦之中。这种尴尬的痛苦是因为嫂子坐在他对面，穿着一件按照他的想象，为了他的利益而特意穿上的，剪得特别开，呈秋千形状的衣服，她白色的胸部。这个四边形的开口，尽管胸部很白，或者只是因为它很白，剥夺了莱文充分利用他的能力。他以为这件低领紧身上衣是为他做的，也许是错误的，他觉得自己没有权利看它，所以尽量不看它；但他觉得自己没有权利看它，所以尽量不看它。但他觉得自己应该为低领紧身胸衣的制作负责。莱文觉得他欺骗了某人，他应该解释一些事情，但解释是不可能的，因此他不断地脸红，感到不安和尴尬。他的尴尬也感染了漂亮嫂子。但女主人似乎并没有注意到这一点，还故意拉她进来。

‘You say,’ she said, pursuing the subject that had been started, ‘that my husband cannot be interested in what’s Russian. It’s quite the contrary; he is always in cheerful spirits abroad, but not as he is here. Here, he feels in his proper place. He has so much to do, and he has the faculty of interesting himself in everything. Oh, you’ve not been to see our school, have you?’
“你说，”她继续话题，“我丈夫对俄语不感兴趣。事实恰恰相反；他在国外总是心情愉快，但在这儿就不一样了。在这里，他感觉自己处于正确的位置。他有很多事情要做，而且他有能力对每件事都感兴趣。哦，你没来过我们学校吧？

‘I’ve seen it.... The little house covered with ivy, isn’t it?’
“我见过……那栋长满常春藤的小房子，不是吗？”

‘Yes; that’s Nastia’s work,’ she said, indicating her sister.
'是的;那是娜斯蒂亚的工作，”她指着她的妹妹说道。

‘You teach in it yourself?’ asked Levin, trying to look above the open neck, but feeling that wherever he looked in that direction he should see it.
“你自己教它吗？”莱文问道，试图看向敞开的脖子上方，但感觉无论他朝那个方向看，他都应该看到它。

‘Yes; I used to teach in it myself, and do teach still, but we have a first-rate schoolmistress now. And we’ve started gymnastic exercises.’
'是的;我自己曾经教过书，现在仍然教书，但我们现在有一位一流的女校长。我们已经开始做体操了。”

‘No, thank you, I won’t have any more tea,’ said Levin, and conscious of doing a rude thing, but incapable of continuing the conversation, he got up, blushing. ‘I hear a very interesting conversation,’ he added, and walked to the other end of the table, where Sviazhsky was sitting with the two gentlemen of the neighborhood. Sviazhsky was sitting sideways, with one elbow on the table, and a cup in one hand, while with the other hand he gathered up his beard, held it to his nose and let it drop again, as though he were smelling it. His brilliant black eyes were looking straight at the excited country gentleman with gray whiskers, and apparently he derived amusement from his remarks. The gentleman was complaining of the peasants. It was evident to Levin that Sviazhsky knew an answer to this gentleman’s complaints, which would at once demolish his whole contention, but that in his position he could not give utterance to this answer, and listened, not without pleasure, to the landowner’s comic speeches.
“不，谢谢，我不会再喝茶了。”莱文说，他意识到自己做了一件粗鲁的事，但无法继续谈话，他红着脸站了起来。 “我听到了一段非常有趣的谈话，”他补充道，然后走到桌子的另一端，斯维亚日斯基正和邻居的两位先生坐在一起。斯维亚日斯基侧身坐着，一只手肘撑在桌子上，一只手拿着杯子，另一只手拢起胡子，放在鼻子上，又垂下来，仿佛在闻它的味道。他那双明亮的黑眼睛直视着这位兴奋的、花白胡须的乡村绅士，显然是被他的话逗乐了。这位先生正在抱怨农民。莱文显然知道，斯维亚日斯基知道这位先生的抱怨的答案，这将立即推翻他的整个论点，但在他的位置上，他无法说出这个答案，并且不无乐趣地听着地主的滑稽演讲。 。

The gentleman with the gray whiskers was obviously an inveterate adherent of serfdom and a devoted agriculturist, who had lived all his life in the country. Levin saw proofs of this in his dress, in the old-fashioned threadbare coat, obviously not his everyday attire, in his shrewd, deep-set eyes, in his idiomatic, fluent Russian, in the imperious tone that had become habitual from long use, and in the resolute gestures of his large, red, sunburnt hands, with an old betrothal ring on the little finger.
这位留着灰色胡须的绅士显然是一位顽固的农奴制信徒，也是一位虔诚的农民，一生都生活在乡村。列文在他的衣着、那件显然不是他日常着装的老式破旧外套、他那双精明而深陷的眼睛、他惯用的、流利的俄语、他长期习惯的专横语气中都看到了这一点。 ，以及他那双被晒黑的大手的坚定姿态，小指上戴着一枚旧的订婚戒指。

Chapter 27
第27章

‘If I’d only the heart to throw up what’s been set going...such a lot of trouble wasted...I’d turn my back on the whole business, sell up, go off like Nikolay Ivanovitch...to hear La Belle Helene,’ said the landowner, a pleasant smile lighting up his shrewd old face.
“如果我愿意放弃已经安排好的事情……那么浪费了很多麻烦……我会放弃整个生意，卖掉，像尼古拉·伊万诺维奇一样离开……听听《美丽的海伦》吧。”地主说道，他那张精明的老脸上露出了愉快的微笑。

‘But you see you don’t throw it up,’ said Nikolay Ivanovitch Sviazhsky; ‘so there must be something gained.’
“但是你看你没有把它吐出来，”尼古拉·伊万诺维奇·斯维亚日斯基说。 “所以一定有所收获。”

‘The only gain is that I live in my own house, neither bought nor hired. Besides, one keeps hoping the people will learn sense. Though, instead of that, you’d never believe it—the drunkenness, the immorality! They keep chopping and changing their bits of land. Not a sight of a horse or a cow. The peasant’s dying of hunger, but just go and take him on as a laborer, he’ll do his best to do you a mischief, and then bring you up before the justice of the peace.’
‘唯一的收获是我住在自己的房子里，不是买的，也不是租的。此外，人们一直希望人们能够学会理智。然而，相反，你永远不会相信——酗酒、不道德！他们不断地砍伐和改变他们的土地。没有看到马或牛。农民快要饿死了，你去收他当苦力，他会想尽办法给你添麻烦，然后把你带到治安法官面前。”

‘But then you make complaints to the justice too,’ said Sviazhsky.
“但是你也会向司法部门投诉，”斯维亚日斯基说。

‘I lodge complaints? Not for anything in the world! Such a talking, and such a to-do, that one would have cause to regret it. At the works, for instance, they pocketed the advance-money and made off. What did the justice do? Why, acquitted them. Nothing keeps them in order but their own communal court and their village elder. He’ll flog them in the good old style! But for that there’d be nothing for it but to give it all up and run away.’
‘我投诉？不为世间任何事！这样的言论，这样的行动，让人有理由后悔。例如，在工厂，他们将预付款装进自己的口袋然后逃跑。正义做了什么？为什么，无罪释放他们。除了他们自己的公共法庭和村长之外，没有什么能让他们保持秩序。他会用老式的方式鞭打他们！但为此，除了放弃一切逃跑之外，别无他法。

Obviously the landowner was chaffing Sviazhsky, who, far from resenting it, was apparently amused by it.
显然，地主是在嘲笑斯维亚日斯基，而斯维亚日斯基不但没有反感，反而觉得好笑。

‘But you see we manage our land without such extreme measures,’ said he, smiling: ‘Levin and I and this gentleman.’
“但是你看，我们在管理我们的土地时并没有采取如此极端的措施，”他微笑着说道，“莱文、我和这位先生。”

He indicated the other landowner.
他指着另一个地主。

‘Yes, the thing’s done at Mihail Petrovitch’s, but ask him how it’s done. Do you call that a rational system?’ said the landowner, obviously rather proud of the word ‘rational.’
“是的，这件事是在米哈伊尔彼得罗维奇那里做的，但是你要问他是怎么做的。你称这为理性制度吗？”地主说道，显然对“理性”这个词相当自豪。

‘My system’s very simple,’ said Mihail Petrovitch, ‘thank God. All my management rests on getting the money ready for the autumn taxes, and the peasants come to me, ‘Father, master, help us!’ Well, the peasants are all one’s neighbors; one feels for them. So one advances them a third, but one says: ‘Remember, lads, I have helped you, and you must help me when I need it—whether it’s the sowing of the oats, or the haycutting, or the harvest’; and well, one agrees, so much for each taxpayer—though there are dishonest ones among them too, it’s true.’
“我的系统非常简单，”米哈伊尔·彼得罗维奇说，“感谢上帝。我所有的管理都是为了准备秋税的钱，农民来找我说：“父亲，主人，救救我们吧！”好吧，农民都是邻居，他们都是邻居。人们对他们有感觉。于是，一个人向他们推进了三分之一，但一个人说：“记住，小伙子们，我帮助了你们，当我需要的时候，你们必须帮助我——无论是播种燕麦，还是割草，还是收割。”好吧，人们同意，对每个纳税人来说都是如此——尽管其中也有不诚实的人，但这是事实。

Levin, who had long been familiar with these patriarchal methods, exchanged glances with Sviazhsky and interrupted Mihail Petrovitch, turning again to the gentleman with the gray whiskers.
列文早已熟悉了这些父权制的方式，他与斯维亚日斯基交换了一个眼神，打断了米哈伊尔·彼得罗维奇的话，又转向这位留着灰色胡须的绅士。

‘Then what do you think?’ he asked; ‘what system is one to adopt nowadays?’
“那你觉得怎么样？”他问道。 “现在采用什么系统？”

‘Why, manage like Mihail Petrovitch, or let the land for half the crop or for rent to the peasants; that one can do—only that’s just how the general prosperity of the country is being ruined. Where the land with serf-labor and good management gave a yield of nine to one, on the half-crop system it yields three to one. Russia has been ruined by the emancipation!’
‘哎呀，像米哈伊尔·彼得罗维奇那样管理吧，或者把土地出租给农民一半的收成，或者出租给农民；人们能做到这一点——但这正是国家的总体繁荣被毁掉的原因。农奴劳动和良好管理的土地产量为九比一，半熟制的产量为三比一。俄罗斯已经被解放毁了！”

Sviazhsky looked with smiling eyes at Levin, and even made a faint gesture of irony to him; but Levin did not think the landowner’s words absurd, he understood them better than he did Sviazhsky. A great deal more of what the gentleman with the gray whiskers said to show in what way Russia was ruined by the emancipation struck him indeed as very true, new to him, and quite incontestable. The landowner unmistakably spoke his own individual thought—a thing that very rarely happens—and a thought to which he had been brought not by a desire of finding some exercise for an idle brain, but a thought which had grown up out of the conditions of his life, which he had brooded over in the solitude of his village, and had considered in every aspect.
斯维亚日斯基用微笑的眼睛看着莱文，甚至对他做了一个微弱的讽刺的手势。但列文并不认为地主的话荒唐，他比斯维亚日斯基更理解这些话。这位留着灰胡子的绅士所说的许多话，显示了俄罗斯是如何被解放所摧毁的，这些话确实让他觉得非常真实，对他来说是新鲜的，而且是无可争议的。地主毫无疑问地说出了他自己的个人想法——这是很少发生的事情——他产生这种想法并不是因为想为闲置的大脑找到一些锻炼的欲望，而是一种在土地条件下成长起来的想法。他在村庄的孤独中沉思着他的生活，并从各个方面考虑过。

‘The point is, don’t you see, that progress of every sort is only made by the use of authority,’ he said, evidently wishing to show he was not without culture. ‘Take the reforms of Peter, of Catherine, of Alexander. Take European history. And progress in agriculture more than anything else—the potato, for instance, that was introduced among us by force. The wooden plough too wasn’t always used. It was introduced maybe in the days before the Empire, but it was probably brought in by force. Now, in our own day, we landowners in the serf times used various improvements in our husbandry: drying machines and thrashing machines, and carting manure and all the modern implements—all that we brought into use by our authority, and the peasants opposed it at first, and ended by imitating us. Now, by the abolition of serfdom we have been deprived of our authority; and so our husbandry, where it had been raised to a high level, is bound to sink to the most savage primitive condition. That’s how I see it.’
“关键是，你难道没有看到吗，任何进步都只能通过使用权威来实现，”他说，显然是想表明自己并非没有文化。 “以彼得、凯瑟琳和亚历山大的改革为例。以欧洲历史为例。农业的进步比其他任何事情都重要——例如土豆，它是通过武力引入我们的。木犁也并不总是被使用。它可能是在帝国之前的日子里引入的，但它可能是通过武力引入的。现在，在我们这个农奴时代，地主在我们的畜牧业中使用了各种改进措施：烘干机、打谷机、运粪车和一切现代农具——所有这些都是我们当局使用的，农民们反对。起初，最后却模仿我们。现在，随着农奴制的废除，我们的权力被剥夺了。因此，我们的畜牧业，虽然已经发展到了很高的水平，但也必然会沦落到最野蛮的原始状态。我就是这么看的。

‘But why so? If it’s rational, you’ll be able to keep up the same system with hired labor,’ said Sviazhsky.
‘但是为什么会这样呢？如果它是合理的，你将能够与雇佣劳动力保持相同的系统，”斯维亚日斯基说。

‘We’ve no power over them. With whom am I going to work the system, allow me to ask?’
‘我们对他们没有权力。请允许我问一下，我将与谁一起使用这个系统？

‘There it is—the labor force—the chief element in agriculture,’ thought Levin.
“这就是——劳动力——农业的主要要素，”莱文想。

‘With laborers.’
“和工人一起。”

‘The laborers won’t work well, and won’t work with good implements. Our laborer can do nothing but get drunk like a pig, and when he’s drunk he ruins everything you give him. He makes the horses ill with too much water, cuts good harness, barters the tires of the wheels for drink, drops bits of iron into the thrashing machine, so as to break it. He loathes the sight of anything that’s not after his fashion. And that’s how it is the whole level of husbandry has fallen. Lands gone out of cultivation, overgrown with weeds, or divided among the peasants, and where millions of bushels were raised you get a hundred thousand; the wealth of the country has decreased. If the same thing had been done, but with care that...’
‘劳动者不会干好活，也不会用好的工具干活。我们的工人除了喝得像头猪一样无能为力，当他喝醉时，他会毁掉你给他的一切。他喝了太多的水，让马生病了，剪断了好马具，用车轮的轮胎换取饮料，把铁块扔进打马机里，想把它弄坏。他讨厌看到任何不符合他风格的东西。整个畜牧业水平就是这样下降的。土地荒芜，杂草丛生，或者分给农民，筹集了数百万蒲式耳，你得到了十万蒲式耳；国家的财富减少了。如果同样的事情也做了，但要小心……”

And he proceeded to unfold his own scheme of emancipation by means of which these drawbacks might have been avoided.
他开始提出自己的解放计划，通过该计划可以避免这些缺点。

This did not interest Levin, but when he had finished, Levin went back to his first position, and, addressing Sviazhsky, and trying to draw him into expressing his serious opinion:—
列文对此不感兴趣，但当他说完后，列文回到了他的第一个位置，对斯维亚日斯基讲话，试图吸引他表达他的严肃意见：

‘That the standard of culture is falling, and that with our present relations to the peasants there is no possibility of farming on a rational system to yield a profit—that’s perfectly true,’ said he.
他说：“文化水平正在下降，而且就我们目前与农民的关系而言，不可能在合理的制度下进行耕种以产生利润——这是完全正确的。”

‘I don’t believe it,’ Sviazhsky replied quite seriously; ‘all I see is that we don’t know how to cultivate the land, and that our system of agriculture in the serf days was by no means too high, but too low. We have no machines, no good stock, no efficient supervision; we don’t even know how to keep accounts. Ask any landowner; he won’t be able to tell you what crop’s profitable, and what’s not.’
“我不相信。”斯维亚日斯基非常严肃地回答道。我只看到我们不懂得耕种土地，农奴时代的农业制度不是太高，而是太低。我们没有机器，没有充足的库存，没有高效的监管；我们甚至不知道如何记账。询问任何土地所有者；他无法告诉你哪些作物有利可图，哪些作物无利可图。

‘Italian bookkeeping,’ said the gentleman of the gray whiskers ironically. ‘You may keep your books as you like, but if they spoil everything for you, there won’t be any profit.’
“意大利簿记。”灰胡子绅士讽刺地说。 “你可以随心所欲地保存你的书，但如果它们破坏了你的一切，就不会有任何利润。”

‘Why do they spoil things? A poor thrashing machine, or your Russian presser, they will break, but my steam press they don’t break. A wretched Russian nag they’ll ruin, but keep good dray-horses—they won’t ruin them. And so it is all round. We must raise our farming to a higher level.’
‘他们为什么要破坏东西？一台差劲的打浆机，或者你的俄罗斯压榨机，它们会坏掉，但我的蒸汽压榨机不会坏掉。他们会毁掉一匹可怜的俄罗斯马，但保留好的拉车马——他们不会毁掉它们。一切都是如此。我们必须将农业提高到一个更高的水平。

‘Oh, if one only had the means to do it, Nikolay Ivanovitch! It’s all very well for you; but for me, with a son to keep at the university, lads to be educated at the high school—how am I going to buy these dray-horses?’
“哦，尼古拉·伊万诺维奇，如果有办法做到这一点就好了！这对你来说非常好；但对我来说，我的儿子要上大学，孩子们要上高中——我怎么去买这些拉车的马呢？

‘Well, that’s what the land banks are for.’
“嗯，这就是土地银行的用途。”

‘To get what’s left me sold by auction? No, thank you.’
‘为了把我剩下的东西拍卖掉？不，谢谢。'

‘I don’t agree that it’s necessary or possible to raise the level of agriculture still higher,’ said Levin. ‘I devote myself to it, and I have means, but I can do nothing. As to the banks, I don’t know to whom they’re any good. For my part, anyway, whatever I’ve spent money on in the way of husbandry, it has been a loss: stock—a loss, machinery—a loss.’
“我不认为有必要或可能进一步提高农业水平，”莱文说。 ‘我全身心投入，我有办法，但我无能为力。至于银行，我不知道它们对谁有好处。无论如何，就我而言，无论我在畜牧方面花了多少钱，这都是一种损失：牲畜——一种损失，机器——一种损失。

‘That’s true enough,’ the gentleman with the gray whiskers chimed in, positively laughing with satisfaction.
“确实如此。”灰胡子绅士插话道，满意地笑道。

‘And I’m not the only one,’ pursued Levin. ‘I mix with all the neighboring landowners, who are cultivating their land on a rational system; they all, with rare exceptions, are doing so at a loss. Come, tell us how does your land do—does it pay?’ said Levin, and at once in Sviazhsky’s eyes he detected that fleeting expression of alarm which he had noticed whenever he had tried to penetrate beyond the outer chambers of Sviazhsky’s mind.
“而且我不是唯一一个，”莱文继续说道。 “我和所有邻近的地主混在一起，他们按照合理的制度耕种土地；除了极少数例外，他们都在茫然地这样做。来吧，告诉我们你的土地怎么样——它能付钱吗？”列文说，他立刻在斯维亚日斯基的眼中发现了那种转瞬即逝的惊慌表情，每当他试图穿透斯维亚日斯基心灵的外层时，他都会注意到这种表情。

Moreover, this question on Levin’s part was not quite in good faith. Madame Sviazhskaya had just told him at tea that they had that summer invited a German expert in bookkeeping from Moscow, who for a consideration of five hundred roubles had investigated the management of their property, and found that it was costing them a loss of three thousand odd roubles. She did not remember the precise sum, but it appeared that the German had worked it out to the fraction of a farthing.
而且，莱文的这个问题也不太善意。斯维亚日斯卡娅夫人刚刚在喝茶时告诉他，那年夏天，他们从莫斯科请了一位德国簿记专家，花了五百卢布调查了他们财产的管理情况，发现这让他们损失了三千卢布。奇数卢布。她不记得具体的金额，但德国人似乎已经算出了一文钱的零头。

The gray-whiskered landowner smiled at the mention of the profits of Sviazhsky’s famling, obviously aware how much gain his neighbor and marshal was likely to be making.
提到斯维亚日斯基家族的利润，这位灰须地主笑了，显然他知道他的邻居和元帅可能会获得多少收益。

‘Possibly it does not pay,’ answered Sviazhsky. ‘That merely proves either that I’m a bad manager, or that I’ve sunk my capital for the increase of my rents.’
“可能没有什么回报，”斯维亚日斯基回答道。 “这只能证明我是一个糟糕的经理，或者我已经因为租金的上涨而损失了我的资本。”

‘Oh, rent!’ Levin cried with horror. ‘Rent there may be in Europe, where land has been improved by the labor put into it, but with us all the land is deteriorating from the labor put into it—in other words they’re working it out; so there’s no question of rent.’
“哦，房租！”莱文惊恐地叫道。 “在欧洲可能存在地租，那里的土地因投入的劳动力而得到改善，但对我们来说，所有的土地都因投入的劳动力而恶化——换句话说，他们正在解决问题；所以不存在租金问题。

‘How no rent? It’s a law.’
‘怎么没房租？这是一条法律。

‘Then we’re outside the law; rent explains nothing for us, but simply muddles us. No, tell me how there can be a theory of rent?...’
‘那么我们就不受法律约束了；租金对我们解释不了什么，只是让我们感到困惑。不，告诉我怎么会有租金理论？……”

‘Will you have some junket? Masha, pass us some junket or raspberries.’ He turned to his wife. ‘Extraordinarily late the raspberries are lasting this year.’
‘你愿意参加一些中介活动吗？玛莎，给我们一些中介或覆盆子。”他转向他的妻子。 “今年覆盆子持续得非常晚。”

And in the happiest frame of mind Sviazhsky got up and walked off, apparently supposing the conversation to have ended at the very point when to Levin it seemed that it was only just beginning.
斯维亚日斯基怀着最幸福的心情起身走开，显然以为谈话就在此时结束，但对莱文来说，谈话似乎才刚刚开始。

Having lost his antagonist, Levin continued the conversation with the gray-whiskered landowner, trying to prove to him that all the difficulty arises from the fact that we don’t find out the peculiarities and habits of our laborer; but the landowner, like all men who think independently and in isolation, was slow in taking in any other person’s idea, and particularly partial to his own. He stuck to it that the Russian peasant is a swine and likes swinishness, and that to get him out of his swinishness one must have authority, and there is none; one must have the stick, and we have become so liberal that we have all of a sudden replaced the stick that served us for a thousand years by lawyers and model prisons, where the worthless, stinking peasant is fed on good soup and has a fixed allowance of cubic feet of air.
失去了对手后，莱文继续与灰须地主交谈，试图向他证明，所有的困难都是由于我们没有发现我们的劳动者的特点和习惯；但是，像所有独立和孤立思考的人一样，地主在接受任何其他人的想法方面速度很慢，尤其偏爱自己的想法。他坚持认为，俄罗斯农民是一头猪，喜欢猪气，要让他摆脱猪气，就必须有权威，但实际上没有；人必须有棍子，而我们已经变得如此自由，以至于我们突然用律师和模范监狱取代了为我们服务了一千年的棍子，在那里，毫无价值、臭气熏天的农民喝着好汤，并有固定的生活。允许立方英尺的空气。

‘What makes you think,’ said Levin, trying to get back to the question, ‘that it’s impossible to find some relation to the laborer in which the labor would become productive?’
“是什么让你认为，”莱文试图回到这个问题，“不可能找到某种与劳动者的关系，使劳动变得富有生产力？”

‘That never could be so with the Russian peasantry; we’ve no power over them,’ answered the landowner.
“对于俄罗斯农民来说，情况绝不会如此；我们对他们没有权力。”地主回答道。

‘How can new conditions be found?’ said Sviazhsky. Having eaten some junket and lighted a cigarette, he came back to the discussion. ‘All possible relations to the labor force have been defined and studied,’ he said. ‘The relic of barbarism, the primitive commune with each guarantee for all, will disappear of itself; serfdom has been abolished—there remains nothing but free labor, and its forms are fixed and ready made, and must be adopted. Permanent hands, day-laborers, rammers—you can’t get out of those forms.’
“如何才能找到新的条件？”斯维亚日斯基说道。吃了点酒，点了根烟，他又回到了讨论中。 “与劳动力的所有可能关系都已被定义和研究，”他说。 “野蛮时代的遗迹，为所有人提供一切保障的原始公社，将会自行消失；农奴制已经废除了，只剩下自由劳动，其形式是固定的、现成的，必须采用。固定工人、临时工、打夯机——你无法摆脱这些形式。

‘But Europe is dissatisfied with these forms.’
“但欧洲对这些形式并不满意。”

‘Dissatisfied, and seeking new ones. And will find them, in all probability.’
'不满意，并寻求新的。并且很可能会找到他们。

‘That’s just what I was meaning,’ answered Levin. ‘Why shouldn’t we seek them for ourselves?’
“这正是我的意思。”莱文回答道。 “为什么我们不应该自己去寻找它们呢？”

‘Because it would be just like inventing afresh the means for constructing railways. They are ready, invented.’
“因为这就像重新发明修建铁路的方法一样。他们已经准备好了，已经发明了。”

‘But if they don’t do for us, if they’re stupid?’ said Levin.
“但如果他们不为我们做事，如果他们愚蠢呢？”莱文说。

And again he detected the expression of alarm in the eyes of Sviazhsky.
他再次发现了斯维亚日斯基眼中惊恐的表情。

‘Oh, yes; we’ll bury the world under our caps! We’ve found the secret Europe was seeking for! I’ve heard all that; but, excuse me, do you know all that’s been done in Europe on the question of the organization of labor?’
'哦是的;我们将把世界埋在我们的帽子下！我们找到了欧洲正在寻找的秘密！这些我都听过；但是，请问，您知道欧洲在劳工组织问题上所做的一切吗？

‘No, very little.’
“不，很少。”

‘That question is now absorbing the best minds in Europe. The Schulze-Delitsch movement.... And then all this enormous literature of the labor question, the most liberal Lassalle movement...the Mulhausen experiment? That’s a fact by now, as you’re probably aware.’
“这个问题现在吸引了欧洲最优秀的头脑。舒尔茨-德里奇运动……然后是所有关于劳工问题的大量文献，最自由的拉萨尔运动……穆尔豪森实验？正如你可能已经意识到的那样，这已经是事实了。

‘I have some idea of it, but very vague.’
“我对此有一些想法，但很模糊。”

‘No, you only say that; no doubt you know all about it as well as I do. I’m not a professor of sociology, of course, but it interested me, and really, if it interests you, you ought to study it.’
“不，你只是这么说；毫无疑问，你和我一样了解这一切。当然，我不是社会学教授，但它让我感兴趣，而且真的，如果你感兴趣，你应该研究它。

‘But what conclusion have they come to?’
“但是他们得出了什么结论呢？”

‘Excuse me...’
'打扰一下...'

The two neighbors had risen, and Sviazhsky, once more checking Levin in his inconvenient habit of peeping into what was beyond the outer chambers of his mind, went to see his guests out.
两个邻居已经起身，斯维亚日斯基再次检查了列文窥视他内心深处的不方便的习惯，然后去送他的客人出去。

Chapter 28
第28章

Levin was insufferably bored that evening with the ladies; he was stirred as he had never been before by the idea that the dissatisfaction he was feeling with his system of managing his land was not an exceptional case, but the general condition of things in Russia; that the organization of some relation of the laborers to the soil in which they would work, as with the peasant he had met half-way to the Sviazhskys’, was not a dream, but a problem which must be solved. And it seemed to him that the problem could be solved, and that he ought to try and solve it.
那天晚上，莱文和女士们在一起感到无聊得难以忍受。他对自己的土地管理制度感到不满，这并不是一个例外，而是俄罗斯的普遍状况，这一想法让他前所未有地激动。工人与他们将要工作的土地之间的某种关系的组织，就像他在去斯维亚日斯基家半路上遇到的农民那样，不是一个梦想，而是一个必须解决的问题。在他看来，这个问题是可以解决的，他应该尝试解决它。

After saying good-night to the ladies, and promising to stay the whole of the next day, so as to make an expedition on horseback with them to see an interesting ruin in the crown forest, Levin went, before going to bed, into his host’s study to get the books on the labor question that Sviazhsky had offered him. Sviazhsky’s study was a huge room, surrounded by bookcases and with two tables in it—one a massive writing table, standing in the middle of the room, and the other a round table, covered with recent numbers of reviews and journals in different languages, ranged like the rays of a star round the lamp. On the writing table was a stand of drawers marked with gold lettering, and full of papers of various sorts.
向女士们道了晚安，并答应第二天会留下来，以便和她们一起骑马探险，去皇冠森林里看看一处有趣的废墟后，莱文在睡觉前走进了他的卧室。主人的书房得到了斯维亚日斯基提供给他的有关劳工问题的书籍。斯维亚日斯基的书房是一个巨大的房间，周围都是书架，里面有两张桌子——一张是巨大的写字台，立在房间中央，另一张是圆桌，上面摆满了最新的不同语言的评论和期刊，如同星星的光芒围绕着灯。写字台上有一排抽屉，上面刻着金字，里面装满了各种文件。

Sviazhsky took out the books, and sat down in a rocking-chair.
斯维亚日斯基拿出书，坐在摇椅上。

‘What are you looking at there?’ he said to Levin, who was standing at the round table looking through the reviews.
“你在看什么？”他对站在圆桌旁浏览评论的莱文说道。

‘Oh, yes, there’s a very interesting article here,’ said Sviazhsky of the review Levin was holding in his hand. ‘It appears,’ he went on, with eager interest, ‘that Friedrich was not, after all, the person chiefly responsible for the partition of Poland. It is proved...’
“哦，是的，这里有一篇非常有趣的文章，”斯维亚日斯基谈到莱文手里拿着的评论时说道。 “看来，”他饶有兴趣地继续说道，“弗里德里希毕竟不是瓜分波兰的主要责任人。事实证明……”

And with his characteristic clearness, he summed up those new, very important, and interesting revelations. Although Levin was engrossed at the moment by his ideas about the problem of the land, he wondered, as he heard Sviazhsky: ‘What is there inside of him? And why, why is he interested in the partition of Poland?’ When Sviazhsky had finished, Levin could not help asking: ‘Well, and what then?’ But there was nothing to follow. It was simply interesting that it had been proved to be so and so. But Sviazhsky did not explain, and saw no need to explain why it was interesting to him.
他以他特有的清晰性总结了那些新的、非常重要的、有趣的启示。尽管列文此刻全神贯注于他对土地问题的想法，但当他听到斯维亚日斯基的声音时，他想知道：“他内心深处有什么？为什么，为什么他对瓜分波兰感兴趣？”斯维亚日斯基说完后，列文忍不住问道：“那么，然后呢？”但没有什么可说的。事实证明如此这般，真是有趣。但斯维亚日斯基没有解释，也认为没有必要解释为什么他对此感兴趣。

‘Yes, but I was very much interested by your irritable neighbor,’ said Levin, sighing. ‘He’s a clever fellow, and said a lot that was true.’
“是的，但我对你那个易怒的邻居很感兴趣，”莱文叹了口气说。 “他是个聪明人，说的很多都是真的。”

‘Oh, get along with you! An inveterate supporter of serfdom at heart, like all of them!’ said Sviazhsky.
‘呵呵，和你相处吧！和他们所有人一样，他本质上是农奴制的坚定支持者！”斯维亚日斯基说道。

‘Whose marshal you are.’
“你是谁的元帅。”

‘Yes, only I marshal them in the other direction,’ said Sviazhsky, laughing.
“是的，只是我把他们引向另一个方向，”斯维亚日斯基笑着说道。

‘I’ll tell you what interests me very much,’ said Levin. ‘He’s right that our system, that’s to say of rational farming, doesn’t answer, that the only thing that answers is the money-lender system, like that meek-looking gentleman’s, or else the very simplest.... Whose fault is it?’
“我会告诉你什么是我非常感兴趣的，”莱文说。 “他是对的，我们的制度，即理性农业，不能回答问题，唯一能回答问题的是放债人制度，就像那位看上去温顺的绅士的制度，或者是最简单的……谁的错是吗？'

‘Our own, of course. Besides, it’s not true that it doesn’t answer. It answers with Vassiltchikov.’
“当然是我们自己的。此外，它不回答也不是真的。它用瓦西尔奇科夫来回答。

‘A factory...’
'一个工厂...'

‘But I really don’t know what it is you are surprised at. The people are at such a low stage of rational and moral development, that it’s obvious they’re bound to oppose everything that’s strange to them. In Europe, a rational system answers because the people are educated; it follows that we must educate the people—that’s all.’
‘但我实在不知道你到底在惊讶什么。人们的理性和道德发展还处于低水平，显然他们必然会反对一切对他们来说陌生的事物。在欧洲，一个理性的制度回答了这个问题，因为人们受过教育；因此，我们必须教育人民——仅此而已。

‘But how are we to educate the people?’
“但是我们如何教育人民呢？”

‘To educate the people three things are needed: schools, and schools, and schools.
“教育人民需要三件事：学校、学校、学校。

‘But you said yourself the people are at such a low stage of material development: what help are schools for that?’
“但你自己说，人们的物质发展还处于如此低的阶段：学校对此有何帮助？”

‘Do you know, you remind me of the story of the advice given to the sick man—You should try purgative medicine. Taken: worse. Try leeches. Tried them: worse. Well, then, there’s nothing left but to pray to God. Tried it: worse. That’s just how it is with us. I say political economy; you say—worse. I say socialism: worse. Education: worse.’
‘你知道吗，你让我想起了给病人的建议的故事——你应该尝试泻药。采取：更糟。尝试水蛭。尝试过：更糟糕。那么，除了向上帝祈祷之外，别无他法。试过了：更糟。我们就是这样。我说政治经济学；你说——更糟。我说社会主义：更糟。教育：更差。

‘But how do schools help matters?’
“但是学校如何帮助解决问题呢？”

‘They give the peasant fresh wants.’
“他们给农民带来了新的需求。”

‘Well, that’s a thing I’ve never understood,’ Levin replied with heat. ‘In what way are schools going to help the people to improve their material position? You say schools, education, will give them fresh wants. So much the worse, since they won’t be capable of satisfying them. And in what way a knowledge of addition and subtraction and the catechism is going to improve their material condition, I never could make out. The day before yesterday, I met a peasant woman in the evening with a little baby, and asked her where she was going. She said she was going to the wise woman; her boy had screaming fits, so she was taking him to be doctored. I asked, ‘Why, how does the wise woman cure screaming fits?’ ‘She puts the child on the hen-roost and repeats some charm....’ ‘
“嗯，这是我一直不明白的事情，”莱文热情地回答道。 “学校将如何帮助人们改善物质状况？你说学校、教育会给他们带来新的需求。更糟糕的是，因为他们无法满足他们。加法、减法和教义问答的知识将如何改善他们的物质条件，我始终无法弄清楚。前天晚上，我遇见一个带着小婴儿的农妇，就问她要去哪里。她说她要去见智者。她的儿子突然尖叫起来，所以她带他去看医生。我问：“为什么，聪明的女人如何治疗尖叫发作？”“她把孩子放在母鸡窝上，并重复一些咒语……”

‘Well, you’re saying it yourself! What’s wanted to prevent her taking her child to the hen-roost to cure it of screaming fits is just...’ Sviazhsky said, smiling good-humoredly.
‘好吧，你自己说啊！想要阻止她把孩子带到母鸡窝里去治疗它的尖叫症，只是……”斯维亚日斯基幽默地微笑着说道。

‘Oh, no!’ said Levin with annoyance; ‘that method of doctoring I merely meant as a simile for doctoring the people with schools. The people are poor and ignorant—that we see as surely as the peasant woman sees the baby is ill because it screams. But in what way this trouble of poverty and ignorance is to be cured by schools is as incomprehensible as how the hen-roost affects the screaming. What has to be cured is what makes him poor.’
“哦，不！”列文恼怒地说。 “我所说的治疗方法只是用学校来治疗人民的比喻。人们既贫穷又无知——我们看到这一点，就像农妇看到婴儿因为尖叫而生病一样。但学校要以何种方式来治愈这种贫困和无知的麻烦，就像母鸡栖息地如何影响尖叫一样令人费解。必须治愈的是让他贫穷的原因。

‘Well, in that, at least, you’re in agreement with Spencer, whom you dislike so much. He says, too, that education may be the consequence of greater prosperity and comfort, of more frequent washing, as he says, but not of being able to read and write...’
“好吧，至少在这一点上，你同意斯宾塞的观点，你非常不喜欢他。他还说，正如他所说，教育可能是更大的繁荣和舒适、更频繁的洗涤的结果，但不是能够读写的结果……”

‘Well, then, I’m very glad—or the contrary, very sorry, that I’m in agreement with Spencer; only I’ve known it a long while. Schools can do no good; what will do good is an economic organization in which the people will become richer, will have more leisure—and then there will be schools.’
“那么，我很高兴——或者相反，很遗憾，我同意斯宾塞的观点；只有我知道很久了。学校无济于事；真正有用的是一个经济组织，在这个组织中，人民将变得更加富有，将有更多的闲暇——然后就会有学校。”

‘Still, all over Europe now schools are obligatory.’
“不过，现在整个欧洲的学校都是义务教育。”

‘And how far do you agree with Spencer yourself about it?’ asked Levin.
“你在多大程度上同意斯宾塞本人的观点？”莱文问。

But there was a gleam of alarm in Sviazhsky’s eyes, and he said smiling:
但斯维亚日斯基眼中却闪过一丝惊愕，微笑道：

‘No; that screaming story is positively capital! Did you really hear it yourself?’
'不;那个尖叫的故事绝对是资本！你自己真的听到了吗？

Levin saw that he was not to discover the connection between this man’s life and his thoughts. Obviously he did not care in the least what his reasoning led him to; all he wanted was the process of reasoning. And he did not like it when the process of reasoning brought him into a blind alley. That was the only thing he disliked, and avoided by changing the conversation to something agreeable and amusing.
莱文发现他无法发现这个人的生活和他的思想之间的联系。显然，他根本不关心他的推理会导致什么结果；他根本不在乎。他想要的只是推理的过程。他不喜欢推理过程把他带入死胡同。这是他唯一不喜欢的事情，并通过将谈话改为令人愉快和有趣的事情来避免。

All the impressions of the day, beginning with the impression made by the old peasant, which served, as it were, as the fundamental basis of all the conceptions and ideas of the day, threw Levin into violent excitement. This dear good Sviazhsky, keeping a stock of ideas simply for social purposes, and obviously having some other principles hidden from Levin, while with the crowd, whose name is legion, he guided public opinion by ideas he did not share; that irascible country gentleman, perfectly correct in the conclusions that he had been worried into by life, but wrong in his exasperation against a whole class, and that the best class in Russia; his own dissatisfaction with the work he had been doing, and the vague hope of finding a remedy for all this—all was blended in a sense of inward turmoil, and anticipation of some solution near at hand.
那天的所有印象，从老农民留下的印象开始，它可以说是当天所有观念和想法的基本基础，使列文陷入了剧烈的兴奋之中。这位亲爱的善良的斯维亚日斯基，仅仅为了社会目的而保留了一些想法，显然还对莱文隐藏了一些其他原则，而在人群中，他们的名字是军团，他用他不同意的想法引导公众舆论；这位脾气暴躁的乡村绅士，他因生活而忧心忡忡而得出的结论是完全正确的，但他对整个阶级的愤怒是错误的，而且是俄罗斯最好的阶级；他对自己所做的工作感到不满，并希望找到解决办法来解决这一切——这一切都混合在一种内心的混乱感中，以及对即将到来的解决方案的期待中。

Left alone in the room assigned him, lying on a spring mattress that yielded unexpectedly at every movement of his arm or his leg, Levin did not fall asleep for a long while. Not one conversation with Sviazhsky, though he had said a great deal that was clever, had interested Levin; but the conclusions of the irascible landowner required consideration. Levin could not help recalling every word he had said, and in imagination amending his own replies.
莱文独自留在分配给他的房间里，躺在弹簧床垫上，随着他手臂或腿的每一个动作，弹簧床垫都会出人意料地屈服，莱文很长一段时间都没有睡着。尽管斯维亚日斯基说了很多聪明的话，但列文没有一次对他的谈话感兴趣。但暴躁的地主的结论需要考虑。莱文忍不住回忆起自己说过的每一句话，并在想象中修改自己的回答。

‘Yes, I ought to have said to him: You say that our husbandry does not answer because the peasant hates improvements, and that they must be forced on him by authority. If no system of husbandry answered at all without these improvements, you would be quite right. But the only system that does answer is where laborer is working in accordance with his habits, just as on the old peasant’s land half-way here. Your and our general dissatisfaction with the system shows that either we are to blame or the laborers. We have gone our way—the European way—a long while, without asking ourselves about the qualities of our labor force. Let us try to look upon the labor force not as an abstract force, but as the Russian peasant with his instincts, and we shall arrange our system of culture in accordance with that. Imagine, I ought to have said to him, that you have the same system as the old peasant has, that you have found means of making your laborers take an interest in the success of the work, and have found the happy mean in the way of improvements which they will admit, and you will, without exhausting the soil, get twice or three times the yield you got before. Divide it in halves, give half as the share of labor, the surplus left you will be greater, and the share of labor will be greater too. And to do this one must lower the standard of husbandry and interest the laborers in its success. How to do this?—that’s a matter of detail; but undoubtedly it can be done.’
“是的，我应该对他说：你说我们的畜牧业不响应，因为农民讨厌改进，而这些改进必须由权威强加给他。如果没有这些改进，任何畜牧系统都无法解决问题，那么你是对的。但唯一能回答这个问题的系统是劳动者按照自己的习惯工作的地方，就像在半路老农民的土地上一样。你和我们对制度的普遍不满表明，要么我们应该受到责备，要么应该责怪劳动者。我们已经走自己的路——欧洲的路——很长一段时间了，没有问自己我们劳动力的素质。让我们试着不把劳动力看作一种抽象的力量，而把它看作具有本能的俄罗斯农民，我们将据此来安排我们的文化体系。想象一下，我应该对他说，你和老农民有同样的制度，你已经找到了让你的劳动者对工作的成功感兴趣的方法，并且在这个方法中找到了快乐的方法。他们会承认的改进，你将在不耗尽土壤的情况下获得以前的两倍或三倍的产量。把它分成两半，给一半作为劳动份额，剩下的剩余会更多，劳动份额也会更大。要做到这一点，就必须降低畜牧业的标准，并让劳动者对其成功感兴趣。如何做到这一点？——这是一个细节问题；但毫无疑问这是可以做到的。”

This idea threw Levin into a great excitement. He did not sleep half the night, thinking over in detail the putting of his idea into practice. He had not intended to go away next day, but he now determined to go home early in the morning. Besides, the sister-in-law with her low-necked bodice aroused in him a feeling akin to shame and remorse for some utterly base action. Most important of all—he must get back without delay: he would have to make haste to put his new project to the peasants before the sowing of the winter wheat, so that the sowing might be undertaken on a new basis. He had made up his mind to revolutionize his whole system.
这个想法让莱文非常兴奋。他半夜没睡，仔细思考着如何将自己的想法付诸实践。他本不打算第二天就走，但现在他决定一早就回家。更何况，低领紧身衣的嫂子，让他心中生出一种类似羞愧和悔恨的感觉，因为他的行为实在是太卑鄙了。最重要的是，他必须立即赶回来：他必须在冬小麦播种之前，赶紧把他的新计划交给农民，以便在新的基础上进行播种。他下定决心要彻底改变他的整个系统。

Chapter 29
第29章

The carrying out of Levin’s plan presented many difficulties; but he struggled on, doing his utmost, and attained a result which, though not what he desired, was enough to enable him, without self-deception, to believe that the attempt was worth the trouble. One of the chief difficulties was that the process of cultivating the land was in full swing, that it was impossible to stop everything and begin it all again from the beginning, and the machine had to be mended while in motion.
莱文计划的实施遇到了许多困难。但他继续奋斗，竭尽全力，得到了一个结果，虽然不是他想要的，但足以让他不自欺欺人地相信，这种尝试是值得的。其中一个主要困难是，耕种土地的过程正在如火如荼地进行，不可能停止一切并从头开始，而且机器必须在运转中进行修理。

When on the evening that he arrived home he informed the bailiff of his plans, the latter with visible pleasure agreed with what he said so long as he was pointing out that all that had been done up to that time was stupid and useless. The bailiff said that he had said so a long while ago, but no heed had been paid him. But as for the proposal made by Levin—to take a part as shareholder with his laborers in each agricultural undertaking— at this the bailiff simply expressed a profound despondency, and offered no definite opinion, but began immediately talking of the urgent necessity of carrying the remaining sheaves of rye the next day, and of sending the men out for the second ploughing, so that Levin felt that this was not the time for discussing it.
当他晚上回到家时，他将自己的计划告知了法警，法警显然很高兴地同意了他的说法，只要他指出到目前为止所做的一切都是愚蠢而无用的。法警说他早就这么说了，但没人理睬他。但对于莱文提出的——与他的工人一起入股每一项农业事业的建议——执达官对此只是表示了深深的沮丧，并没有提出明确的意见，而是立即开始谈论进行农业经营的迫切需要。第二天剩下的几捆黑麦，又派人出去第二次犁地，莱文觉得现在不是讨论这件事的时候。

On beginning to talk to the peasants about it, and making a proposition to cede them the land on new terms, he came into collision with the same great difficulty that they were so much absorbed by the current work of the day, that they had not time to consider the advantages and disadvantages of the proposed scheme.
当他开始与农民谈论这件事，并提出以新的条件割让他们土地的提议时，他遇到了同样的巨大困难，因为他们太专注于当前的工作，以至于他们没有是时候考虑所提出方案的优点和缺点了。

The simple-hearted Ivan, the cowherd, seemed completely to grasp Levin’s proposal—that he should with his family take a share of the profits of the cattle-yard—and he was in complete sympathy with the plan. But when Levin hinted at the future advantages, Ivan’s face expressed alarm and regret that he could not hear all he had to say, and he made haste to find himself some task that would admit of no delay: he either snatched up the fork to pitch the hay out of the pens, or ran to get water or to clear out the dung.
心地单纯的牛郎伊万似乎完全理解莱文的提议——他应该和家人分享牛场的利润——而且他完全赞同这个计划。但当莱文暗示未来的优势时，伊万的脸上流露出惊恐和遗憾，因为他听不到自己要说的一切，他赶紧给自己找了一些刻不容缓的任务：要么抓起叉子投掷。或跑去取水或清除粪便。

Another difficulty lay in the invincible disbelief of the peasant that a landowner’s object could be anything else than a desire to squeeze all he could out of them. They were firmly convinced that his real aim (whatever he might say to them) would always be in what he did not say to them. And they themselves, in giving their opinion, said a great deal but never said what was their real object. Moreover (Levin felt that the irascible landowner had been right) the peasants made their first and unalterable condition of any agreement whatever that they should not be forced to any new methods of tillage of any kind, nor to use new implements. They agreed that the modern plough ploughed better, that the scarifier did the work more quickly, but they found thousands of reasons that made it out of the question for them to use either of them; and though he had accepted the conviction that he would have to lower the standard of cultivation, he felt sorry to give up improved methods, the advantages of which were so obvious. But in spite of all these difficulties he got his way, and by autumn the system was working, or at least so it seemed to him.
另一个困难在于农民坚信不疑，他们认为地主的目的除了想从他们身上榨取一切之外，还可以是其他任何东西。他们坚信，他的真正目的（无论他对他们说什么）永远是他没有对他们说的。他们自己在发表意见时说了很多，但从未说出他们真正的目的是什么。此外（莱文认为暴躁的地主是对的）农民在任何协议中都提出了首要且不可改变的条件，即不得强迫他们采用任何新的耕作方法，也不得使用新的农具。他们一致认为，现代犁耕地效果更好，松土机工作速度更快，但他们发现了数千个理由，使他们不可能使用其中任何一个；尽管他已经接受了必须降低修炼标准的信念，但他还是对放弃改进的方法感到遗憾，因为改进的方法的优点是如此明显。但尽管面临所有这些困难，他还是如愿以偿，到了秋天，这个系统开始发挥作用，或者至少在他看来是这样。

At first Levin had thought of giving up the whole farming of the land just as it was to the peasants, the laborers, and the bailiff on new conditions of partnership; but he was very soon convinced that this was impossible, and determined to divide it up. The cattle-yard, the garden, hay fields, and arable land, divided into several parts, had to be made into separate lots. The simple-hearted cowherd, Ivan, who, Levin fancied, understood the matter better than any of them, collecting together a gang of workers to help him, principally of his own family, became a partner in the cattle-yard. A distant part of the estate, a tract of waste land that had lain fallow for eight years, was with the help of the clever carpenter, Fyodor Ryezunov, taken by six families of peasants on new conditions of partnership, and the peasant Shuraev took the management of all the vegetable gardens on the same terms. The remainder of the land was still worked on the old system, but these three associated partnerships were the first step to a new organization of the whole, and they completely took up Levin’s time.
起初，莱文曾想过放弃整个土地的耕种，就像在新的合伙条件下放弃农民、工人和法警一样。但他很快就确信这是不可能的，并决定将其瓜分。牛场、花园、干草场和耕地被分成几部分，必须分成不同的地块。列文认为，心地单纯的牧牛人伊万比他们任何人都更了解这件事，他召集了一群工人（主要是他自己的家人）来帮助他，成为牛场的合伙人。庄园的一个偏远地区，一片荒废了八年的荒地，在聪明的木匠费奥多尔·雷祖诺夫（Fyodor Ryezunov）的帮助下，由六个农民家庭以新的合作条件占领，农民舒拉耶夫（Shuraev）占领了这片土地。以同样的条件管理所有菜园。其余的土地仍在旧系统上工作，但这三个相关的伙伴关系是整个新组织的第一步，它们完全占用了莱文的时间。

It is true that in the cattle-yard things went no better than before, and Ivan strenuously opposed warm housing for the cows and butter made of fresh cream, affirming that cows require less food if kept cold, and that butter is more profitable made from sour cream, and he asked for wages just as under the old system, and took not the slightest interest in the fact that the money he received was not wages but an advance out of his future share in the profits.
确实，牛场里的情况并不比以前好，伊万极力反对为奶牛提供温暖的住房和用新鲜奶油制成的黄油，并断言如果保持寒冷，奶牛需要的食物就会减少，而用新鲜奶油制成的黄油更有利可图。酸奶油，他像旧制度下一样要求工资，并且对他收到的钱不是工资而是从他未来的利润份额中预支的事实没有丝毫兴趣。

It is true that Fyodor Ryezunov’s company did not plough over the ground twice before sowing, as had been agreed, justifying themselves on the plea that the time was too short. It is true that the peasants of the same company, though they had agreed to work the land on new conditions, always spoke of the land, not as held in partnership, but as rented for half the crop, and more than once the peasants and Ryezunov himself said to Levin, ‘If you would take a rent for the land, it would save you trouble, and we should be more free.’ Moreover the same peasants kept putting off, on various excuses, the building of a cattleyard and barn on the land as agreed upon, and delayed doing it till the winter.
确实，费奥多尔·雷祖诺夫的公司并没有按照约定在播种前犁地两次，以时间太短为借口辩解。诚然，同一公司的农民虽然同意在新的条件下耕种土地，但总是谈到土地，不是合伙持有的，而是以一半收成出租的，而且不止一次，农民和列祖诺夫本人对列文说：“如果你愿意收取土地租金，那就可以省去你的麻烦，我们也会更自由。”此外，这些农民还以各种借口推迟建造牛场和谷仓。按照约定在土地上耕种，并推迟到冬天。

It is true that Shuraev would have liked to let out the kitchen gardens he had undertaken in small lots to the peasants. He evidently quite misunderstood, and apparently intentionally misunderstood, the conditions upon which the land had been given to him.
确实，舒拉耶夫希望将他小块承包的菜园出租给农民。显然，他完全误解了，而且显然是故意误解了给予他土地的条件。

Often, too, talking to the peasants and explaining to them all the advantages of the plan, Levin felt that the peasants heard nothing but the sound of his voice, and were firmly resolved, whatever he might say, not to let themselves be taken in. He felt this especially when he talked to the cleverest of the peasants, Ryezunov, and detected the gleam in Ryezunov’s eyes which showed so plainly both ironical amusement at Levin, and the firm conviction that, if any one were to be taken in, it would not be he, Ryezunov. But in spite of all this Levin thought the system worked, and that by keeping accounts strictly and insisting on his own way, he would prove to them in the future the advantages of the arrangement, and then the system would go of itself.
列文也经常与农民交谈，向他们解释该计划的所有优点，他觉得农民们除了他的声音之外什么也没听到，并且坚定地决心，无论他说什么，都不会让自己上当。 ……尤其是当他与最聪明的农民雷祖诺夫交谈时，他感觉到了这一点，他发现雷祖诺夫眼中的光芒如此明显地表现出对列文的讽刺性的兴趣，以及坚定的信念，如果有人被欺骗，他就会被欺骗。不会是他，雷祖诺夫。但尽管如此，莱文认为这个制度是有效的，通过严格记账并坚持自己的方式，他会在未来向他们证明这种安排的优点，然后这个制度就会自行消失。

These matters, together with the management of the land still left on his hands, and the indoor work over his book, so engrossed Levin the whole summer that he scarcely ever went out shooting. At the end of August he heard that the Oblonskys had gone away to Moscow, from their servant who brought back the side-saddle. He felt that in not answering Darya Alexandrovna’s letter he had by his rudeness, of which he could not think without a flush of shame, burned his ships, and that he would never go and see them again. He had been just as rude with the Sviazhskys, leaving them without saying good-bye. But he would never go to see them again either. He did not care about that now. The business of reorganizing the farming of his land absorbed him as completely as though there would never be anything else in his life. He read the books lent him by Sviazhsky, and copying out what he had not got, he read both the economic and socialistic books on the subject, but, as he had anticipated, found nothing bearing on the scheme he had undertaken. In the books on political economy—in Mill, for instance, whom he studied first with great ardor, hoping every minute to find an answer to the questions that were engrossing him—he found laws deduced from the condition of land culture in Europe; but he did not see why these laws, which did not apply in Russia, must be general. He saw just the same thing in the socialistic books: either they were the beautiful but impracticable fantasies which had fascinated him when he was a student, or they were attempts at improving, rectifying the economic position in which Europe was placed, with which the system of land tenure in Russia had nothing in common. Political economy told him that the laws by which the wealth of Europe had been developed, and was developing, were universal and unvarying. Socialism told him that development along these lines leads to ruin. And neither of them gave an answer, or even a hint, in reply to the question what he, Levin, and all the Russian peasants and landowners, were to do with their millions of hands and millions of acres, to make them as productive as possible for the common weal.
这些事情，加上他手中仍剩下的土地的管理，以及他的书的室内工作，整个夏天都让莱文全神贯注，以至于他几乎没有出去拍摄。八月底，他从带回侧鞍的仆人那里听说奥布朗斯基一家已经去了莫斯科。他觉得，由于他没有回复达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜的信，他的粗鲁行为烧毁了他的船只，他一想到这种行为就会感到羞愧，他再也不会去看它们了。他对斯维亚日斯基一家也同样粗鲁，没有说再见就离开了他们。但他也永远不会再去看他们了。他现在不关心这个了。重组土地耕作的事务让他全神贯注，仿佛他的生活中再也没有其他事情了。他读了斯维亚日斯基借给他的书，并抄下了他没有得到的书，他读了有关该主题的经济和社会主义书籍，但是，正如他所预料的那样，没有发现任何与他所采取的计划有关的内容。在政治经济学书籍中——例如，他首先以极大的热情研究了穆勒，希望每一分钟都能找到他所关心的问题的答案——他发现了从欧洲土地文化状况中推导出来的规律；但他不明白为什么这些在俄罗斯不适用的法律必须具有普遍性。他在社会主义书籍中看到了同样的事情：要么是他在学生时代就着迷的美丽但不切实际的幻想，要么是试图改善和纠正欧洲所处的经济地位，该体系也是如此。俄罗斯的土地保有权没有任何共同之处。 政治经济学告诉他，欧洲财富已经发展和正在发展的规律是普遍的、不变的。社会主义告诉他，这样的发展会导致毁灭。对于他、列文和所有俄罗斯农民和地主将如何利用他们的数百万双手和数百万英亩土地，使他们的生产力达到与为共同利益而可能。

Having once taken the subject up, he read conscientiously everything bearing on it, and intended in the autumn to go abroad to study land systems on the spot, in order that he might not on this question be confronted with what so often met him on various subjects. Often, just as he was beginning to understand the idea in the mind of anyone he was talking to, and was beginning to explain his own, he would suddenly be told: ‘But Kauffmann, but Jones, but Dubois, but Michelli? You haven’t read them: they’ve thrashed that question out thoroughly.’
一旦开始研究这个课题，他就认真地阅读了与之相关的所有内容，并打算在秋天出国实地研究土地系统，这样他就不会在这个问题上遇到他经常在各种场合遇到的问题。科目。通常，当他开始理解与他交谈的人心里的想法，并开始解释自己的想法时，他会突然被告知：“但是考夫曼，但是琼斯，但是杜波依斯，但是米歇利？”你还没有读过他们：他们已经彻底解决了这个问题。

He saw now distinctly that Kauffmann and Michelli had nothing to tell him. He knew what he wanted. He saw that Russia has splendid land, splendid laborers, and that in certain cases, as at the peasant’s on the way to Sviazhsky’s, the produce raised by the laborers and the land is great—in the majority of cases when capital is applied in the European way the produce is small, and that this simply arises from the fact that the laborers want to work and work well only in their own peculiar way, and that this antagonism is not incidental but invariable, and has its roots in the national spirit. He thought that the Russian people whose task it was to colonize and cultivate vast tracts of unoccupied land, consciously adhered, till all their land was occupied, to the methods suitable to their purpose, and that their methods were by no means so bad as was generally supposed. And he wanted to prove this theoretically in his book and practically on his land.
他现在清楚地看到考夫曼和米歇利没有什么可告诉他的。他知道自己想要什么。他看到俄罗斯有肥沃的土地，有优秀的劳动者，而且在某些情况下，就像在去斯维亚日斯基家途中的农民家里一样，劳动者和土地生产的产品是巨大的——在大多数情况下，当资本用于生产时欧洲人的生产方式很少，这仅仅是因为劳动者只想以自己独特的方式工作并且工作得很好，这种对抗不是偶然的而是必然的，其根源在于民族精神。他认为，俄罗斯人民的任务是殖民和耕种大片无人居住的土地，他们有意识地坚持适合他们目的的方法，直到他们的所有土地都被占领为止，而且他们的方法绝不是那么糟糕。一般认为。他想在他的书中从理论上证明这一点，并在他的土地上实践证明这一点。

Chapter 30
第30章

At the end of September the timber had been carted for building the cattleyard on the land that had been allotted to the association of peasants, and the butter from the cows was sold and the profits divided. In practice the system worked capitally, or, at least, so it seemed to Levin. In order to work out the whole subject theoretically and to complete his book, which, in Levin’s daydreams, was not merely to effect a revolution in political economy, but to annihilate that science entirely and to lay the foundation of a new science of the relation of the people to the soil, all that was left to do was to make a tour abroad, and to study on the spot all that had been done in the same direction, and to collect conclusive evidence that all that had been done there was not what was wanted. Levin was only waiting for the delivery of his wheat to receive the money for it and go abroad. But the rains began, preventing the harvesting of the corn and potatoes left in the fields, and putting a stop to all work, even to the delivery of the wheat.
九月底，木材已经运来，用于在分配给农民协会的土地上建造牛场，牛的黄油也被出售，利润也被瓜分。在实践中，这一制度发挥了重要作用，或者至少在莱文看来是这样。为了从理论上解决整个课题并完成他的书，在莱文的白日梦中，这不仅是为了实现政治经济学的革命，而且是为了彻底消灭这门科学并为一门新的关系科学奠定基础。人到了这片土地，剩下要做的就是去国外旅行，实地研究同一个方向所做的一切，并收集确凿的证据，证明那里所做的一切都是没有的。想要什么。莱文只是在等待他的小麦交付，以便收到钱并出国。但降雨开始了，田里剩下的玉米和土豆无法收割，所有工作都停止了，甚至小麦的运送也停止了。

The mud was impassable along the roads; two mills were carried away, and the weather got worse and worse.
道路两旁泥泞不堪，无法通行。两座磨坊被卷走，天气也变得越来越糟。

On the 30th of September the sun came out in the morning, and hoping for fine weather, Levin began making final preparations for his journey. He gave orders for the wheat to be delivered, sent the bailiff to the merchant to get the money owing him, and went out himself to give some final directions on the estate before setting off.
9月30日早上，太阳出来了，莱文盼着天气好，开始为旅程做最后的准备。他下令运送小麦，派执达官去商人那里取回欠他的钱，并在出发前亲自出去对庄园做出了一些最终指示。

Having finished all his business, soaked through with the streams of water which kept running down the leather behind his neck and his gaiters, but in the keenest and most confident temper, Levin returned homewards in the evening. The weather had become worse than ever towards evening; the hail lashed the drenched mare so cruelly that she went along sideways, shaking her head and ears; but Levin was all right under his hood, and he looked cheerfully about him at the muddy streams running under the wheels, at the drops hanging on every bare twig, at the whiteness of the patch of unmelted hailstones on the planks of the bridge, at the thick layer of still juicy, fleshy leaves that lay heaped up about the stripped elm-tree. In spite of the gloominess of nature around him, he felt peculiarly eager. The talks he had been having with the peasants in the further village had shown that they were beginning to get used to their new position. The old servant to whose hut he had gone to get dry evidently approved of Levin’s plan, and of his own accord proposed to enter the partnership by the purchase of cattle.
完成了所有的事情后，莱文被水流浸透了，水流不断地流过他脖子后面的皮革和绑腿，但莱文以最敏锐和最自信的脾气，在晚上回到了家。傍晚时分，天气变得比以往任何时候都更糟糕。冰雹狠狠地打在浑身湿透的母马身上，她只能侧着身子，摇着头和耳朵。但莱文在他的兜帽下一切都很好，他高兴地环顾四周，看着车轮下流淌的泥泞溪流，看着每根光秃秃的树枝上挂着的水珠，看着桥板上未融化的冰雹的白色，剥光的榆树周围堆满了厚厚的一层仍然多汁、肉质的叶子。尽管周围的自然环境阴郁，他却感到异常渴望。他与远处村庄的农民的谈话表明，他们已经开始适应新的职位。他去茅屋晾干的老仆人显然赞同莱文的计划，并自愿提议通过购买牛来加入合伙企业。

‘I have only to go stubbornly on towards my aim, and I shall attain my end,’ thought Levin; ‘and it’s something to work and take trouble for. This is not a matter of myself individually; the question of the public welfare comes into it. The whole system of culture, the chief element in the condition of the people, must be completely transformed. Instead of poverty, general prosperity and content; instead of hostility, harmony and unity of interests. In short, a bloodless revolution, but a revolution of the greatest magnitude, beginning in the little circle of our district, then the province, then Russia, the whole world. Because a just idea cannot but be fruitful. Yes, it’s an aim worth working for. And its being me, Kostya Levin, who went to a ball in a black tie, and was refused by the Shtcherbatskaya girl, and who was intrinsically such a pitiful, worthless creature—that proves nothing; I feel sure Franklin felt just as worthless, and he too had no faith in himself, thinking of himself as a whole. That means nothing. And he too, most likely, had an Agafea Mihalovna to whom he confided his secrets.’
“我只要顽强地朝着我的目标前进，我就会达到我的目的，”列文想。 “这是一件需要付出努力、不辞辛劳的事情。这不是我个人的问题，而是我个人的问题。这就涉及到公共福利的问题。整个文化体系是人民状况的主要因素，必须彻底转变。不再是贫穷，而是普遍繁荣和满足；不是敌对，而是和谐，利益统一。简而言之，这是一场不流血的革命，但却是一场最大规模的革命，首先从我们地区的小圈子开始，然后是全省，然后是俄罗斯，乃至全世界。因为一个正义的想法必定会结出硕果。是的，这是一个值得为之努力的目标。而我，克斯特亚·莱文，穿着黑色领带去参加一个舞会，被谢尔巴茨卡娅女孩拒绝了，而且我本质上是一个可怜的、毫无价值的生物——这证明不了什么；我确信富兰克林也觉得自己毫无价值，他也对自己没有信心，认为自己是一个整体。那没什么意义。而且他很可能也有一位阿加菲娅·米哈伊洛芙娜，他向她吐露了自己的秘密。

Musing on such thoughts Levin reached home in the darkness.
想着想着，列文在黑暗中回到了家。

The bailiff, who had been to the merchant, had come back and brought part of the money for the wheat. An agreement had been made with the old servant, and on the road the bailiff had learned that everywhere the corn was still standing in the fields, so that his one hundred and sixty shocks that had not been carried were nothing in comparison with the losses of others.
去商人那里的法警回来了，带来了一部分买小麦的钱。和老仆人说好了，在路上，法警得知田野里到处都是玉米，所以他那一百六十没有运来的冲击与损失相比根本算不了什么。其他的。

After dinner Levin was sitting, as he usually did, in an easy chair with a book, and as he read he went on thinking of the journey before him in connection with his book. Today all the significance of his book rose before him with special distinctness, and whole periods ranged themselves in his mind in illustration of his theories. ‘I must write that down,’ he thought. ‘That ought to form a brief introduction, which I thought unnecessary before.’ He got up to go to his writing table, and Laska, lying at his feet, got up too, stretching and looking at him as though to inquire where to go. But he had not time to write it down, for the head peasants had come round, and Levin went out into the hall to them.
晚饭后，莱文像往常一样，坐在安乐椅上，手里拿着一本书，一边读书，一边继续思考他面前的旅程与他的书。今天，他的书的所有意义都以特别清晰的方式呈现在他面前，整个时期都在他的脑海中浮现，以阐释他的理论。 “我必须把它写下来，”他想。 “这应该是一个简短的介绍，我以前认为没有必要。”他起身走向写字台，躺在他脚边的拉斯卡也站了起来，伸了个懒腰，看着他，仿佛在询问要去哪里。 。但他没有时间把它写下来，因为农民首领已经过来了，列文走到大厅里去找他们。

After his levee, that is to say, giving directions about the labors of the next day, and seeing all the peasants who had business with him, Levin went back to his study and sat down to work.
离开大堤后，即指示第二天的劳动，并看​​到所有与他有生意往来的农民后，列文回到书房坐下来工作。

Laska lay under the table; Agafea Mihalovna settled herself in her place with her stocking.
拉斯卡躺在桌子底下。阿加菲娅·米哈伊洛夫娜拿着长袜坐定。

After writing for a little while, Levin suddenly thought with exceptional vividness of Kitty, her refusal, and their last meeting. He got up and began walking about the room.
写了一会儿之后，莱文突然异常生动地想起了基蒂、她的拒绝以及他们最后一次见面。他站起来，开始在房间里走来走去。

‘What’s the use of being dreary?’ said Agafea Mihalovna. ‘Come, why do you stay on at home? You ought to go to some warm springs, especially now you’re ready for the journey.’
“沉闷有什么用呢？”阿加菲娅·米哈伊洛夫娜说道。 ‘来吧，你为什么呆在家里？你应该去一些温暖的温泉，尤其是现在你已经准备好出发了。

‘Well, I am going away the day after tomorrow, Agafea Mihalovna; I must finish my work.’
“好吧，我后天就要走了，阿加菲娅·米哈伊洛夫娜；我必须完成我的工作。

‘There, there, your work, you say! As if you hadn’t done enough for the peasants! Why, as ‘tis, they’re saying, ‘Your master will be getting some honor from the Tsar for it.’ Indeed and it is a strange thing; why need you worry about the peasants?’
‘那儿，那儿，你的工作，你说！好像你为农民做的还不够！为什么，他们说，“你的主人会因此而从沙皇那里得到一些荣誉。”确实，这是一件奇怪的事情；你为什么需要担心农民呢？

‘I’m not worrying about them; I’m doing it for my own good.’
“我不担心他们；我不担心他们。”我这样做是为了我自己好。

Agafea Mihalovna knew every detail of Levin’s plans for his land. Levin often put his views before her in all their complexity, and not uncommonly he argued with her and did not agree with her comments. But on this occasion she entirely misinterpreted what he had said.
阿加菲娅·米哈伊洛芙娜了解列文对其土地的计划的每一个细节。莱文经常把他的观点复杂地摆在她面前，他经常与她争论并且不同意她的评论。但这一次她完全误解了他的话。

‘Of one’s soul’s salvation we all know and must think before all else,’ she said with a sigh. ‘Parfen Denisitch now, for all he was no scholar, he died a death that God grant every one of us the like,’ she said, referring to a servant who had died recently. ‘Took the sacrament and all.’
“我们都知道灵魂的救赎，并且必须首先考虑这一点，”她叹了口气说。 “帕芬·德尼西奇现在虽然不是学者，但上帝赐予我们每个人同样的死法，”她说，指的是最近去世的一名仆人。 “接受了圣餐和一切。”

‘That’s not what I mean,’ said he. ‘I mean that I’m acting for my own advantage. It’s all the better for me if the peasants do their work better.’
“我不是这个意思，”他说。 “我的意思是，我是为了自己的利益而行动。如果农民们干得更好，对我来说就更好了。”

‘Well, whatever you do, if he’s a lazy good-for-nought, everything’ll be at sixes and sevens. If he has a conscience, he’ll work, and if not, there’s no doing anything.’
“好吧，无论你做什么，如果他是个懒惰的废物，一切都会乱七八糟。如果他有良心，他就会工作，如果没有，就什么也做不了。”

‘Oh, come, you say yourself Ivan has begun looking after the cattle better.’
“哦，来吧，你自己说伊万已经开始更好地照顾牛了。”

‘All I say is,’ answered Agafea Mihalovna, evidently not speaking at random, but in strict sequence of idea, ‘that you ought to get married, that’s what I say.’
“我所说的就是，”阿加菲娅·米哈伊洛夫娜回答，显然不是随意说话，而是按照严格的顺序，“你应该结婚，这就是我所说的。”

Agafea Mihalovna’s allusion to the very subject he had only just been thinking about, hurt and stung him. Levin scowled, and without answering her, he sat down again to his work, repeating to himself all that he had been thinking of the real significance of that work. Only at intervals he listened in the stillness to the click of Agafea Mihalovna’s needles, and recollecting what he did not want to remember, he frowned again.
阿加菲娅·米哈伊洛夫娜对他刚刚思考的这个话题的暗示，伤害了他，刺痛了他。莱文皱起眉头，没有回答她，而是重新坐下来开始工作，对自己重复着他一直在思考这项工作的真正意义的一切。只是时不时地，他在寂静中听到阿加菲娅·米哈伊洛芙娜针的咔哒声，想起他不想想起的事情，他又皱起了眉头。

At nine o’clock they heard the bell and the faint vibration of a carriage over the mud.
九点钟，他们听到钟声和马车在泥地上的微弱震动。

‘Well, here’s visitors come to us, and you won’t be dull,’ said Agafea Mihalovna, getting up and going to the door. But Levin overtook her. His work was not going well now, and he was glad of a visitor, whoever it might be.
“好吧，有客人来找我们，你不会感到无聊的，”阿加菲娅·米哈伊洛夫娜说，站起身来向门口走去。但莱文追上了她。现在他的工作进展不顺利，但他很高兴有访客，不管是谁。

Chapter 31
第31章

Running halfway down the staircase, Levin caught a sound he knew, a familiar cough in the hall. But he heard it indistinctly through the sound of his own footsteps, and hoped he was mistaken. Then he caught sight of a long, bony, familiar figure, and now it seemed there was no possibility of mistake; and yet he still went on hoping that this tall man taking off his fur cloak and coughing was not his brother Nikolay.
跑下楼梯的一半，莱文听到了他熟悉的声音，大厅里传来熟悉的咳嗽声。但他从自己的脚步声中隐隐约约听到了，希望自己听错了。然后他看到了一个修长、骨瘦如柴的熟悉身影，现在看来不可能出错了。但他仍然希望这个脱下毛皮斗篷、咳嗽的高个子男人不是他的兄弟尼古拉。

Levin loved his brother, but being with him was always a torture. Just now, when Levin, under the influence of the thoughts that had come to him, and Agafea Mihalovna’s hint, was in a troubled and uncertain humor, the meeting with his brother that he had to face seemed particularly difficult. Instead of a lively, healthy visitor, some outsider who would, he hoped, cheer him up in his uncertain humor, he had to see his brother, who knew him through and through, who would call forth all the thoughts nearest his heart, would force him to show himself fully. And that he was not disposed to do.
莱文爱他的兄弟，但和他在一起总是一种折磨。刚才，当莱文在他的想法和阿加菲娅·米哈伊洛芙娜的暗示的影响下，心情变得不安和不确定时，他必须面对的与他的兄弟的会面显得特别困难。他所看到的不是一个活泼、健康的访客，而是一个局外人，他希望能用他不确定的幽默来让他高兴起来，而他必须看到他的兄弟，他彻头彻尾地了解他，他会唤起他内心深处的所有想法，迫使他充分展现自己。但他不愿意这么做。

Angry with himself for so base a feeling, Levin ran into the hall; as soon as he had seen his brother close, this feeling of selfish disappointment vanished instantly and was replaced by pity. Terrible as his brother Nikolay had been before in his emaciation and sickliness, now he looked still more emaciated, still more wasted. He was a skeleton covered with skin.
莱文对自己如此卑鄙的感觉感到愤怒，他跑进了大厅。当他近距离看到自己的兄弟时，这种自私的失望感瞬间消失，取而代之的是怜悯。他的弟弟尼古拉以前憔悴多病的样子很糟糕，现在他看起来更憔悴，更憔悴了。他是一具被皮肤覆盖的骷髅。

He stood in the hall, jerking his long thin neck, and pulling the scarf off it, and smiled a strange and pitiful smile. When he saw that smile, submissive and humble, Levin felt something clutching at his throat.
他站在大厅里，猛地一拉细长的脖子，将围巾扯下来，露出诡异而可怜的笑容。当他看到那张顺从而谦卑的微笑时，莱文感到有什么东西掐住了他的喉咙。

‘You see, I’ve come to you,’ said Nikolay in a thick voice, never for one second taking his eyes off his brother’s face. ‘I’ve been meaning to a long while, but I’ve been unwell all the time. Now I’m ever so much better,’ he said, rubbing his beard with his big thin hands.
“你看，我来找你了，”尼古拉用粗重的声音说道，他的目光一刻也没有从他哥哥的脸上移开。 “我已经想了很长一段时间了，但我一直身体不舒服。现在我好多了，”他一边说，一边用他又大又瘦的手揉着胡子。

‘Yes, yes!’ answered Levin. And he felt still more frightened when, kissing him, he felt with his lips the dryness of his brother’s skin and saw close to him his big eyes, full of a strange light.
“是的，是的！”莱文回答道。更让他感到害怕的是，在亲吻他时，他用嘴唇感觉到哥哥皮肤的干燥，并看到他的大眼睛靠近他，充满了奇怪的光芒。

A few weeks before, Konstantin Levin had written to his brother that through the sale of the small part of the property, that had remained undivided, there was a sum of about two thousand roubles to come to him as his share.
几周前，康斯坦丁·莱文写信给他的兄弟，通过出售未分割的一小部分财产，他可以得到大约两千卢布作为他的份额。

Nikolay said that he had come now to take this money and, what was more important, to stay a while in the old nest, to get in touch with the earth, so as to renew his strength like the heroes of old for the work that lay before him. In spite of his exaggerated stoop, and the emaciation that was so striking from his height, his movements were as rapid and abrupt as ever. Levin led him into his study.
尼古拉说，他现在来是为了拿这笔钱，更重要的是，要在老巢里呆上一段时间，接触一下大地，以便像古代的英雄一样，重新焕发力量，继续工作。躺在他面前。尽管他弯腰驼得夸张，而且从他的身高来看，他的憔悴十分引人注目，但他的动作却一如既往地迅速而突然。莱文领着他走进书房。

His brother dressed with particular care—a thing he never used to do—combed his scanty, lank hair, and, smiling, went upstairs.
他哥哥穿得特别仔细——这是他以前从来没有做过的——梳理了一下稀疏的平直的头发，然后微笑着上楼了。

He was in the most affectionate and good-humored mood, just as Levin often remembered him in childhood. He even referred to Sergey Ivanovitch without rancor. When he saw Agafea Mihalovna, he made jokes with her and asked after the old servants. The news of the death of Parfen Denisitch made a painful impression on him. A look of fear crossed his face, but he regained his serenity immediately.
他的心情是最亲切、最幽默的，正如莱文童年时常常记得的那样。他甚至毫无怨恨地提到谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇。当他见到阿加菲娅·米哈伊洛夫娜时，他和她开玩笑，并询问老仆人的情况。帕芬·杰尼西奇去世的消息给他留下了痛苦的印象。他的脸上闪过一丝恐惧，但很快又恢复了平静。

‘Of course he was quite old,’ he said, and changed the subject. ‘Well, I’ll spend a month or two with you, and then I’m off to Moscow. Do you know, Myakov has promised me a place there, and I’m going into the service. Now I’m going to arrange my life quite differently,’ he went on. ‘You know I got rid of that woman.’
“当然，他已经很老了，”他说，然后改变了话题。 “好吧，我会和你待一两个月，然后我就去莫斯科。你知道吗，米亚科夫已经答应我在那里有一席之地，我要去服役。现在我将以完全不同的方式安排我的生活，”他继续说道。 “你知道我已经摆脱了那个女人。”

‘Marya Nikolaevna? Why, what for?’
“玛丽亚·尼古拉耶夫娜？为什么，为什么？

‘Oh, she was a horrid woman! She caused me all sorts of worries.’ But he did not say what the annoyances were. He could not say that he had cast off Marya Nikolaevna because the tea was weak, and, above all, because she would look after him, as though he were an invalid.
‘哦，她真是个可怕的女人！她给我带来了各种各样的烦恼。”但他没有说到底是什么烦恼。他不能说他抛弃玛丽亚·尼古拉耶夫娜是因为茶太淡了，最重要的是，因为她会照顾他，就好像他是个病人一样。

‘Besides, I want to turn over a new leaf completely now. I’ve done silly things, of course, like everyone else, but money’s the last consideration; I don’t regret it. So long as there’s health, and my health, thank God, is quite restored.’
‘此外，我现在想彻底改过自新。当然，我也像其他人一样做过愚蠢的事情，但金钱是最后考虑的；我不后悔。只要身体健康，感谢上帝，我的健康已经完全恢复了。

Levin listened and racked his brains, but could think of nothing to say. Nikolay probably felt the same; he began questioning his brother about his affairs; and Levin was glad to talk about himself, because then he could speak without hypocrisy. He told his brother of his plans and his doings.
莱文听着，绞尽脑汁，却想不出什么可说的。尼古拉可能也有同样的感觉。他开始向他的兄弟询问他的事情。莱文很高兴谈论他自己，因为这样他就可以毫不虚伪地说话了。他告诉他的兄弟他的计划和他的所作所为。

His brother listened, but evidently he was not interested by it.
他哥哥听了，但显然对此不感兴趣。

These two men were so akin, so near each other, that the slightest gesture, the tone of voice, told both more than could be said in words.
这两个人如此相似，彼此如此接近，以至于最轻微的手势、语气都告诉了他们更多无法用言语表达的信息。

Both of them now had only one thought—the illness of Nikolay and the nearness of his death—which stifled all else. But neither of them dared to speak of it, and so whatever they said— not uttering the one thought that filled their minds—was all falsehood. Never had Levin been so glad when the evening was over and it was time to go to bed. Never with any outside person, never on any official visit had he been so unnatural and false as he was that evening. And the consciousness of this unnaturalness, and the remorse he felt at it, made him even more unnatural. He wanted to weep over his dying, dearly loved brother, and he had to listen and keep on talking of how he meant to live.
他们俩现在只有一个念头——尼古拉的病和他的死亡临近——这压垮了其他一切。但他们谁都不敢说出来，所以无论他们说什么——不是说出他们心中的一个想法——都是谎言。当晚上结束、该睡觉的时候，莱文从来没有这么高兴过。他从来没有像那天晚上那样对任何外人、在任何正式访问中表现得如此不自然和虚伪。而这种不自然的意识，以及他对此感到的悔恨，让他变得更加不自然。他想为他垂死的、深爱的兄弟哭泣，他必须倾听并继续谈论他打算如何生活。

As the house was damp, and only one bedroom had been kept heated, Levin put his brother to sleep in his own bedroom behind a screen.
由于房子潮湿，而且只有一间卧室有暖气，莱文让他的兄弟睡在他自己的卧室的屏风后面。

His brother got into bed, and whether he slept or did not sleep, tossed about like a sick man, coughed, and when he could not get his throat clear, mumbled something. Sometimes when his breathing was painful, he said, ‘Oh, my God!’ Sometimes when he was choking he muttered angrily, ‘Ah, the devil!’ Levin could not sleep for a long while, hearing him. His thoughts were of the most various, but the end of all his thoughts was the same— death. Death, the inevitable end of all, for the first time presented itself to him with irresistible force. And death, which was here in this loved brother, groaning half asleep and from habit calling without distinction on God and the devil, was not so remote as it had hitherto seemed to him. It was in himself too, he felt that. If not today, tomorrow, if not tomorrow, in thirty years, wasn’t it all the same! And what was this inevitable death—he did not know, had never thought about it, and what was more, had not the power, had not the courage to think about it.
他哥哥上了床，无论睡还是没睡，都像个病人一样翻来覆去，咳嗽着，喉咙无法清清时，就咕哝着什么。有时，当他呼吸困难时，他会说：“哦，我的上帝！”有时，当他窒息时，他会愤怒地低声说：“啊，魔鬼！”莱文听着他的声音，好久都无法入睡。他的想法多种多样，但他所有想法的结局都是一样的——死亡。死亡，这一切不可避免的结局，第一次以不可抗拒的力量出现在他面前。而死亡，就在这位心爱的兄弟身上，半睡半醒地呻吟着，习惯性地召唤着上帝和魔鬼，对他来说，死亡并不像迄今为止所认为的那样遥远。他自己也有这样的感觉。不是今天，是明天，不是明天，三十年后，不都一样吗！而这必然的死亡又是什么——他不知道，从来没有想过，更何况，没有权力，没有勇气去想。

‘I work, I want to do something, but I had forgotten it must all end; I had forgotten—death.’
“我工作，我想做点什么，但我忘记了这一切都必须结束；我忘记了——死亡。

He sat on his bed in the darkness, crouched up, hugging his knees, and holding his breath from the strain of thought, he pondered. But the more intensely he thought, the clearer it became to him that it was indubitably so, that in reality, looking upon life, he had forgotten one little fact—that death will come, and all ends; that nothing was even worth beginning, and that there was no helping it anyway. Yes, it was awful, but it was so.
他在黑暗中坐在床上，蹲下身子，抱住膝盖，因思绪的紧张而屏住了呼吸，他沉思着。但他想得越多，他就越清楚，毫无疑问，事实上，在看待生活时，他忘记了一个小事实——死亡将会来临，一切都会结束；没有什么值得开始的，而且无论如何也没有帮助。是的，这很糟糕，但事实就是如此。

‘But I am alive still. Now what’s to be done? what’s to be done?’ he said in despair. He lighted a candle, got up cautiously and went to the looking-glass, and began looking at his face and hair. Yes, there were gray hairs about his temples. He opened his mouth. His back teeth were beginning to decay. He bared his muscular arms. Yes, there was strength in them. But Nikolay, who lay there breathing with what was left of lungs, had had a strong, healthy body too. And suddenly he recalled how they used to go to bed together as children, and how they only waited till Fyodor Bogdanitch was out of the room to fling pillows at each other and laugh, laugh irrepressibly, so that even their awe of Fyodor Bogdanitch could not check the effervescing, overbrimming sense of life and happiness. ‘And now that bent, hollow chest...and I, not knowing what will become of me, or wherefore...’
‘但我还活着。现在该怎么办？该怎么办？”他绝望地说。他点燃一支蜡烛，小心翼翼地站起来，走到镜子前，开始观察自己的脸和头发。是的，他的太阳穴上长出了白发。他张开了嘴。他的后牙开始腐烂。他露出了肌肉发达的手臂。是的，他们身上有力量。但尼古拉躺在那里，用残存的肺呼吸，他的身体也很强壮、健康。他突然想起小时候他们是如何一起上床睡觉的，等到费奥多尔·博格达内奇走出房间，他们才互相扔枕头，然后大笑，笑得无法抑制，以至于连他们对费奥多尔·博格达内奇的敬畏也无法抑制。检查一下充满活力、洋溢的生活感和幸福感。 “现在那个弯曲、空洞的胸膛……而我，不知道我会变成什么样子，也不知道为什么……”

‘K...ha! K...ha! Damnation! Why do you keep fidgeting, why don’t you go to sleep?’ his brother’s voice called to him.
‘咳……哈！咳……哈！诅咒！你为什么一直坐立不安，为什么不去睡觉？”他哥哥的声音呼唤着他。

‘Oh, I don’t know, I’m not sleepy.’
“哦，我不知道，我不困。”

‘I have had a good sleep, I’m not in a sweat now. Just see, feel my shirt; it’s not wet, is it?’
“我睡得很好，现在没有出汗。只要看看、摸摸我的衬衫；它不湿，是吗？

Levin felt, withdrew behind the screen, and put out the candle, but for a long while he could not sleep. The question how to live had hardly begun to grow a little clearer to him, when a new, insoluble question presented itself—death.
莱文摸了摸，退到屏风后面，熄灭了蜡烛，却久久无法入睡。当他对如何生活的问题变得更加清晰时，一个新的、无法解决的问题出现了——死亡。

‘Why, he’s dying—yes, he’ll die in the spring, and how help him? What can I say to him? What do I know about it? I’d even forgotten that it was at all.’
‘为什么，他快死了——是的，他会在春天死，怎么帮助他呢？我能对他说什么？我对此了解多少？我什至忘记了它是存在的。

Chapter 32
第32章

Levin had long before made the observation that when one is uncomfortable with people from their being excessively amenable and meek, one is apt very soon after to find things intolerable from their touchiness and irritability. He felt that this was how it would be with his brother. And his brother Nikolay’s gentleness did in fact not last out for long. The very next morning he began to be irritable, and seemed doing his best to find fault with his brother, attacking him on his tenderest points.
莱文很早以前就观察到，当一个人因他人过于顺从和温顺而感到不舒服时，很快就会因他们的易怒和易怒而感到难以忍受。他觉得他的兄弟也会如此。而他弟弟尼古拉的温柔事实上并没有持续多久。第二天早上，他开始变得烦躁，似乎竭尽全力地挑剔他的兄弟，攻击他最脆弱的地方。

Levin felt himself to blame, and could not set things right. He felt that if they had both not kept up appearances, but had spoken, as it is called, from the heart—that is to say, had said only just what they were thinking and feeling—they would simply have looked into each other’s faces, and Konstantin could only have said, ‘You’re dying, you’re dying!’ and Nikolay could only have answered, ‘I know I’m dying, but I’m afraid, I’m afraid, I’m afraid!’ And they could have said nothing more, if they had said only what was in their hearts. But life like that was impossible, and so Konstantin tried to do what he had been trying to do all his life, and never could learn to do, though, as far as he could observe, many people knew so well how to do it, and without it there was no living at all. He tried to say what he was not thinking, but he felt continually that it had a ring of falsehood, that his brother detected him in it, and was exasperated at it.
莱文觉得自己有罪，无法纠正事情。他觉得，如果他们俩不刻意表现出来，而是用所谓的发自内心的方式说话——也就是说，只说出自己的想法和感受——他们就会只是看着对方的脸。 ，康斯坦丁只能说：“你快死了，你快死了！”尼古拉只能回答：“我知道我快死了，但我害怕，我害怕，我害怕！”如果他们只说出心里的话，他们就不会再说什么了。但那样的生活是不可能的，所以康斯坦丁试图做他一生都在尝试做的事情，但永远无法学会做，尽管据他观察，很多人都知道如何做，没有它，就根本没有生活。他试图说出他没有想到的事情，但他不断地感觉到这其中有一种谎言，他的兄弟发现了他的说法，并对此感到愤怒。

The third day Nikolay induced his brother to explain his plan to him again, and began not merely attacking it, but intentionally confounding it with communism.
第三天，尼古拉再次诱使他的兄弟向他解释他的计划，并开始不仅攻击它，而且故意将其与共产主义混为一谈。

‘You’ve simply borrowed an idea that’s not your own, but you’ve distorted it, and are trying to apply it where it’s not applicable.’
“你只是借用了一个不属于你自己的想法，但你扭曲了它，并试图将它应用到不适用的地方。”

‘But I tell you it’s nothing to do with it. They deny the justice of property, of capital, of inheritance, while I do not deny this chief stimulus.’ (Levin felt disgusted himself at using such expressions, but ever since he had been engrossed by his work, he had unconsciously come more and more frequently to use words not Russian.) ‘All I want is to regulate labor.’
“但我告诉你，这与此无关。他们否认财产、资本、继承的正义，而我并不否认这种主要的刺激。”（莱文对使用这样的表达方式感到厌恶，但自从他全神贯注于他的工作以来，他不自觉地变得更加和更频繁地使用非俄语单词。）“我想要的只是规范劳工。”

‘Which means, you’ve borrowed an idea, stripped it of all that gave it its force, and want to make believe that it’s something new,’ said Nikolay, angrily tugging at his necktie.
“这意味着，你借用了一个想法，剥夺了它所有的力量，并想让人相信它是新的，”尼古拉愤怒地拉着领带说道。

‘But my idea has nothing in common...’
“但我的想法没有任何共同点……”

‘That, anyway,’ said Nikolay Levin, with an ironical smile, his eyes flashing malignantly, ‘has the charm of—what’s one to call it?—geometrical symmetry, of clearness, of definiteness. It may be a Utopia. But if once one allows the possibility of making of all the past a tabula rasa—no property, no family— then labor would organize itself. But you gain nothing...’
“无论如何，”尼古拉·莱文带着讽刺的微笑说道，他的眼睛里闪烁着恶意，“具有几何对称、清晰、明确的魅力——该怎么称呼它呢？”这可能是一个乌托邦。但如果一旦人们允许将过去的一切变成一张白板——没有财产，没有家庭——那么劳动就会自行组织起来。但你什么也得不到……”

‘Why do you mix things up? I’ve never been a communist.’
‘你为什么要把事情搞混？我从来都不是共产主义者。

‘But I have, and I consider it’s premature, but rational, and it has a future, just like Christianity in its first ages.’
“但我已经这么做了，我认为这还为时过早，但却是合理的，而且它有未来，就像早期的基督教一样。”

‘All that I maintain is that the labor force ought to be investigated from the point of view of natural science; that is to say, it ought to be studied, its qualities ascertained...’
“我的主张是，应该从自然科学的角度来研究劳动力；也就是说，应该研究它，确定它的品质……”

‘But that’s utter waste of time. That force finds a certain form of activity of itself, according to the stage of its development. There have been slaves first everywhere, then metayers; and we have the half-crop system, rent, and day laborers. What are you trying to find?’
“但这完全是浪费时间。这种力量根据其发展阶段，找到了自身的某种活动形式。首先到处都有奴隶，然后是奴隶。我们有半熟制、租金和日工。你想找到什么？

Levin suddenly lost his temper at these words, because at the bottom of his heart he was afraid that it was true—true that he was trying to hold the balance even between communism and the familiar forms, and that this was hardly possible.
莱文听到这句话突然发脾气，因为他心底里害怕这是真的——真的，他甚至试图在共产主义和熟悉的形式之间保持平衡，而这几乎是不可能的。

‘I am trying to find means of working productively for myself and for the laborers. I want to organize...’ he answered hotly.
“我正在努力寻找为自己和劳动者高效工作的方法。我想组织……”他热情地回答。

‘You don’t want to organize anything; it’s simply just as you’ve been all your life, that you want to be original to pose as not exploiting the peasants simply, but with some idea in view.’
“你不想组织任何事情；就像你一生中所做的那样，你想要表现出原创性，不只是简单地剥削农民，而是有一些想法。

‘Oh, all right, that’s what you think—and let me alone!’ answered Levin, feeling the muscles of his left cheek twitching uncontrollably.
“哦，好吧，你就是这么想的——别打扰我！”莱文回答道，感觉左脸颊的肌肉不受控制地抽搐着。

‘You’ve never had, and never have, convictions; all you want is to please your vanity.’
“你从来没有、也从来没有过信念；你想要的只是满足你的虚荣心。

‘Oh, very well; then let me alone!’
'哦，很好;那么就让我一个人静一静吧！

‘And I will let you alone! and it’s high time I did, and go to the devil with you! and I’m very sorry I ever came!’
‘我会让你一个人呆着的！我是时候这么做了，和你一起见鬼去吧！我很抱歉我来了！

In spite of all Levin’s efforts to soothe his brother afterwards, Nikolay would listen to nothing he said, declaring that it was better to part, and Konstantin saw that it simply was that life was unbearable to him.
尽管事后莱文竭尽全力安抚他的兄弟，尼古拉却什么也听不进去，并宣称最好还是分手，而康斯坦丁看出，这只是生活对他来说难以忍受。

Nikolay was just getting ready to go, when Konstantin went in to him again and begged him, rather unnaturally, to forgive him if he had hurt his feelings in any way.
尼古拉正准备离开，康斯坦丁再次走进他身边，相当不自然地恳求他原谅他，如果他以任何方式伤害了他的感情。

‘Ah, generosity!’ said Nikolay, and he smiled. ‘If you want to be right, I can give you that satisfaction. You’re in the right; but I’m going all the same.’
“啊，慷慨！”尼古拉微笑着说道。 ‘如果你想是对的，我可以给你那种满足感。你是对的；但我还是要去。

It was only just at parting that Nikolay kissed him, and said, looking with sudden strangeness and seriousness at his brother:
就在临别时，尼古拉吻了他，突然用一种陌生而严肃的眼神看着他的兄弟，说道：

‘Anyway, don’t remember evil against me, Kostya!’ and his voice quivered. These were the only words that had been spoken sincerely between them. Levin knew that those words meant, ‘You see, and you know, that I’m in a bad way, and maybe we shall not see each other again.’ Levin knew this, and the tears gushed from his eyes. He kissed his brother once more, but he could not speak, and knew not what to say.
“无论如何，不​​要记住对我的邪恶，克斯特亚！”他的声音颤抖着。这是他们之间唯一真心实意说过的话。莱文知道这句话的意思是：“你看，你也知道，我的处境很糟糕，也许我们不会再见面了。”莱文知道这一点，泪水从他的眼中涌出。他再次吻了他的兄弟，但他说不出话来，也不知道该说什么。

Three days after his brother’s departure, Levin too set off for his foreign tour. Happening to meet Shtcherbatsky, Kitty’s cousin, in the railway train, Levin greatly astonished him by his depression.
哥哥离开三天后，莱文也启程出国旅行。在火车上，莱文碰巧遇见了基蒂的表弟谢尔巴茨基，他的抑郁症让他大吃一惊。

‘What’s the matter with you?’ Shtcherbatsky asked him.
“你怎么了？”谢尔巴茨基问他。

‘Oh, nothing; there’s not much happiness in life.’
‘哦，没什么；生活中没有多少幸福。

‘Not much? You come with me to Paris instead of to Mulhausen. You shall see how to be happy.’
'不多？你跟我一起去巴黎而不是米豪森。你将会看到如何快乐。

‘No, I’ve done with it all. It’s time I was dead.’
‘不，我已经把这一切都做完了。我是时候死了。

‘Well, that’s a good one!’ said Shtcherbatsky, laughing; ‘why, I’m only just getting ready to begin.’
“嗯，那是个好主意！”谢尔巴茨基笑着说道。 “为什么，我才刚刚准备好开始呢。”

‘Yes, I thought the same not long ago, but now I know I shall soon be dead.’
“是的，不久前我也是这么想的，但现在我知道我很快就会死。”

Levin said what he had genuinely been thinking of late. He saw nothing but death or the advance towards death in everything. But his cherished scheme only engrossed him the more. Life had to be got through somehow till death did come. Darkness had fallen upon everything for him; but just because of this darkness he felt that the one guiding clue in the darkness was his work, and he clutched it and clung to it with all his strength.
莱文说出了他最近一直在想的事情。他在一切事物中只看到死亡或走向死亡。但他所珍视的计划只会让他更加全神贯注。生命必须以某种方式度过，直到死亡来临。黑暗笼罩了他的一切；但正是因为这片黑暗，他觉得黑暗中唯一的指导线索就是他的工作，他紧紧抓住它，用尽全力抓住它。

PART 4
第 4 部分

Chapter 1
第1章

The Karenins, husband and wife, continued living in the same house, met every day, but were complete strangers to one another. Alexey Alexandrovitch made it a rule to see his wife every day, so that the servants might have no grounds for suppositions, but avoided dining at home. Vronsky was never at Alexey Alexandrovitch’s house, but Anna saw him away from home, and her husband was aware of it.
卡列宁夫妇继续住在同一所房子里，每天见面，但彼此却完全陌生。阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇规定每天都要去见他的妻子，这样仆人就没有猜测的理由，但避免在家吃饭。渥伦斯基从来没有去过阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇家，但安娜看到他出门在外，她的丈夫也知道这一点。

The position was one of misery for all three; and not one of them would have been equal to enduring this position for a single day, if it had not been for the expectation that it would change, that it was merely a temporary painful ordeal which would pass over. Alexey Alexandrovitch hoped that this passion would pass, as everything does pass, that everyone would forget about it, and his name would remain unsullied. Anna, on whom the position depended, and for whom it was more miserable than for anyone, endured it because she not merely hoped, but firmly believed, that it would all very soon be settled and come right. She had not the least idea what would settle the position, but she firmly believed that something would very soon turn up now. Vronsky, against his own will or wishes, followed her lead, hoped too that something, apart from his own action, would be sure to solve all difficulties.
这个职位对三人来说都是痛苦的。如果不是预期情况会发生变化，认为这只是暂时的痛苦磨难，会过去，那么他们中没有一个人能够承受这种处境一天。阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇希望这种激情会过去，就像一切都会过去一样，每个人都会忘记它，而他的名字不会受到玷污。安娜，这个地位取决于她，对她来说，这比任何人都更痛苦，她忍受了这一切，因为她不仅希望，而且坚信，这一切很快就会得到解决并得到解决。她完全不知道什么会解决这个问题，但她坚信，很快就会有事情发生。渥伦斯基违背自己的意愿或意愿，追随了她的领导，也希望除了他自己的行动之外，还有什么办法一定能解决所有困难。

In the middle of the winter Vronsky spent a very tiresome week. A foreign prince, who had come on a visit to Petersburg, was put under his charge, and he had to show him the sights worth seeing. Vronsky was of distinguished appearance; he possessed, moreover, the art of behaving with respectful dignity, and was used to having to do with such grand personages—that was how he came to be put in charge of the prince. But he felt his duties very irksome. The prince was anxious to miss nothing of which he would be asked at home, had he seen that in Russia? And on his own account he was anxious to enjoy to the utmost all Russian forms of amusement. Vronsky was obliged to be his guide in satisfying both these inclinations. The mornings they spent driving to look at places of interest; the evenings they passed enjoying the national entertainments. The prince rejoiced in health exceptional even among princes. By gymnastics and careful attention to his health he had brought himself to such a point that in spite of his excess in pleasure he looked as fresh as a big glossy green Dutch cucumber. The prince had traveled a great deal, and considered one of the chief advantages of modern facilities of communication was the accessibility of the pleasures of all nations.
隆冬时节，渥伦斯基度过了非常无聊的一周。一位来彼得堡访问的外国王子受他管辖，他必须带他参观值得一看的景点。渥伦斯基相貌出众。而且，他还具有谦恭有礼的举止艺术，习惯了与这些大人物打交道——所以他才被任命为王子的管家。但他觉得自己的职责非常令人厌烦。王子急切地不想错过任何他在家里会被问到的问题，他在俄罗斯见过吗？为了他自己的利益，他渴望最大限度地享受俄罗斯的所有娱乐形式。渥伦斯基有义务引导他满足这两种倾向。早上他们开车去参观名胜古迹；晚上他们都在享受民族娱乐活动。王子很高兴他的健康状况在王子中也是出类拔萃的。通过体操和对健康的精心关注，他使自己达到了这样的程度，尽管他享受过度的快乐，但他看起来像一根又大又亮的绿色荷兰黄瓜一样新鲜。王子游历了很多地方，他认为现代通讯设施的主要优势之一就是可以享受所有国家的乐趣。

He had been in Spain, and there had indulged in serenades and had made friends with a Spanish girl who played the mandolin. In Switzerland he had killed chamois. In England he had galloped in a red coat over hedges and killed two hundred pheasants for a bet. In Turkey he had got into a harem; in India he had hunted on an elephant, and now in Russia he wished to taste all the specially Russian forms of pleasure.
他曾去过西班牙，在那里沉迷于小夜曲，并与一位弹曼陀林的西班牙女孩交了朋友。在瑞士，他杀死了羚羊。在英国，他曾穿着红色外套驰过树篱，为了打赌杀死了两百只野鸡。在土耳其，他进入了后宫；在土耳其，他进入了后宫。在印度，他曾猎杀过大象，现在在俄罗斯，他希望品尝所有俄罗斯特有的快乐。

Vronsky, who was, as it were, chief master of the ceremonies to him, was at great pains to arrange all the Russian amusements suggested by various persons to the prince. They had race horses, and Russian pancakes and bear hunts and three-horse sledges, and gypsies and drinking feasts, with the Russian accompaniment of broken crockery. And the prince with surprising ease fell in with the Russian spirit, smashed trays full of crockery, sat with a gypsy girl on his knee, and seemed to be asking—what more, and does the whole Russian spirit consist in just this?
渥伦斯基可以说是他的首席仪式主持人，他煞费苦心地安排了各方人士向王子建议的所有俄罗斯娱乐活动。他们有赛马、俄罗斯煎饼、猎熊、三马雪橇、吉普赛人和饮酒盛宴，还有俄罗斯人用破碎的陶器伴奏。王子出人意料地轻松地融入了俄罗斯精神，打碎了装满陶器的托盘，膝盖上坐着一个吉普赛女孩，似乎在问——还有什么，整个俄罗斯精神就仅此而已吗？

In reality, of all the Russian entertainments the prince liked best French actresses and ballet dancers and white-seal champagne. Vronsky was used to princes, but, either because he had himself changed of late, or that he was in too close proximity to the prince, that week seemed fearfully wearisome to him. The whole of that week he experienced a sensation such as a man might have set in charge of a dangerous madman, afraid of the madman, and at the same time, from being with him, fearing for his own reason. Vronsky was continually conscious of the necessity of never for a second relaxing the tone of stern official respectfulness, that he might not himself be insulted. The prince’s manner of treating the very people who, to Vronsky’s surprise, were ready to descend to any depths to provide him with Russian amusements, was contemptuous. His criticisms of Russian women, whom he wished to study, more than once made Vronsky crimson with indignation. The chief reason why the prince was so particularly disagreeable to Vronsky was that he could not help seeing himself in him. And what he saw in this mirror did not gratify his self-esteem. He was a very stupid and very self-satisfied and very healthy and very well-washed man, and nothing else. He was a gentleman—that was true, and Vronsky could not deny it. He was equable and not cringing with his superiors, was free and ingratiating in his behavior with his equals, and was contemptuously indulgent with his inferiors. Vronsky was himself the same, and regarded it as a great merit to be so. But for this prince he was an inferior, and his contemptuous and indulgent attitude to him revolted him.
事实上，在所有俄罗斯娱乐活动中，王子最喜欢的是法国最好的女演员、芭蕾舞演员和白海豹香槟。渥伦斯基已经习惯了王子，但是，要么是因为他最近换了个人，要么是因为他离王子太近了，那一周对他来说似乎非常令人厌倦。整整一周，他都有一种感觉，就像一个人可能会负责一个危险的疯子一样，他害怕这个疯子，同时，由于和他在一起，他又因为自己的原因而害怕。渥伦斯基始终意识到必须一刻也不能放松官方严厉的尊敬语气，以免他自己受到侮辱。令渥伦斯基惊讶的是，王子对待那些愿意不遗余力地为他提供俄罗斯娱乐的人们的态度是轻蔑的。他对自己想研究的俄罗斯妇女的批评不止一次让渥伦斯基气得面红耳赤。渥伦斯基之所以对公爵特别反感，主要原因是他情不自禁地在他身上看到了自己。而他在镜子里看到的东西并没有满足他的自尊心。他是一个非常愚蠢、非常自满、非常健康、洗得很干净的人，除此之外什么都没有。他是一位绅士——这是事实，渥伦斯基无法否认这一点。他对上级平和而不卑鄙，对同级则自由而讨好，对下级则轻蔑地纵容。渥伦斯基本人也是如此，并认为这是一项伟大的功绩。但对于这位王子来说，他是一个低人一等的人，他对他的轻蔑和纵容的态度让他感到厌恶。

‘Brainless beef! can I be like that?’ he thought.
‘无脑牛！我可以像那样吗？”他想。

Be that as it might, when, on the seventh day, he parted from the prince, who was starting for Moscow, and received his thanks, he was happy to be rid of his uncomfortable position and the unpleasant reflection of himself. He said good-bye to him at the station on their return from a bear hunt, at which they had had a display of Russian prowess kept up all night.
不管怎样，当他在第七天与动身前往莫斯科的王子告别并接受他的感谢时，他很高兴摆脱了自己不舒服的处境和令人不快的形象。猎熊回来后，他在车站向他道别，他们在猎熊中整夜展示了俄罗斯的武力。

Chapter 2
第2章

When he got home, Vronsky found there a note from Anna. She wrote, ‘I am ill and unhappy. I cannot come out, but I cannot go on longer without seeing you. Come in this evening. Alexey Alexandrovitch goes to the council at seven and will be there till ten.’ Thinking for an instant of the strangeness of her bidding him come straight to her, in spite of her husband’s insisting on her not receiving him, he decided to go.
当他回到家时，渥伦斯基发现了安娜的一张便条。她写道：“我病了，而且不快乐。我不能出来，但我不能再看不到你了。今天晚上进来吧。阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇七点钟去议会，一直待到十点。”尽管她丈夫坚持不让她接待他，但他突然想到她命令他直接来找她的奇怪之处，他决定去。

Vronsky had that winter got his promotion, was now a colonel, had left the regimental quarters, and was living alone. After having some lunch, he lay down on the sofa immediately, and in five minutes memories of the hideous scenes he had witnessed during the last few days were confused together and joined on to a mental image of Anna and of the peasant who had played an important part in the bear hunt, and Vronsky fell asleep. He waked up in the dark, trembling with horror, and made haste to light a candle. ‘What was it? What? What was the dreadful thing I dreamed? Yes, yes; I think a little dirty man with a disheveled beard was stooping down doing something, and all of a sudden he began saying some strange words in French. Yes, there was nothing else in the dream,’ he said to himself. ‘But why was it so awful?’ He vividly recalled the peasant again and those incomprehensible French words the peasant had uttered, and a chill of horror ran down his spine.
渥伦斯基那年冬天升职了，现在是上校，离开了团部，独自生活。吃过午饭后，他立即躺在沙发上，五分钟之内，他对这几天所目睹的可怕场景的记忆就混杂在一起，并在脑海中浮现出了安娜和扮演一个农民的形象。这是猎熊行动的重要组成部分，渥伦斯基睡着了。他在黑暗中醒来，惊恐得浑身发抖，赶紧点起蜡烛。 '它以前如何？什么？我梦见的可怕的事情是什么？是的是的;我觉得一个胡子蓬乱、脏兮兮的小男人正在弯下腰做某事，突然他开始用法语说一些奇怪的词。是的，梦里没有别的东西，”他自言自语道。 “可为什么这么可怕？”他又清晰地回忆起那个农民和那个农民说的那些难以理解的法语单词，一阵恐怖的寒意从他的脊背上爬上来。

‘What nonsense!’ thought Vronsky, and glanced at his watch.
“胡说八道！”渥伦斯基心里想，同时看了一眼手表。

It was half-past eight already. He rang up his servant, dressed in haste, and went out onto the steps, completely forgetting the dream and only worried at being late. As he drove up to the Karenins’ entrance he looked at his watch and saw it was ten minutes to nine. A high, narrow carriage with a pair of grays was standing at the entrance. He recognized Anna’s carriage. ‘She is coming to me,’ thought Vronsky, ‘and better she should. I don’t like going into that house. But no matter; I can’t hide myself,’ he thought, and with that manner peculiar to him from childhood, as of a man who has nothing to be ashamed of, Vronsky got out of his sledge and went to the door. The door opened, and the hall porter with a rug on his arm called the carriage. Vronsky, though he did not usually notice details, noticed at this moment the amazed expression with which the porter glanced at him. In the very doorway Vronsky almost ran up against Alexey Alexandrovitch. The gas jet threw its full light on the bloodless, sunken face under the black hat and on the white cravat, brilliant against the beaver of the coat. Karenin’s fixed, dull eyes were fastened upon Vronsky’s face. Vronsky bowed, and Alexey Alexandrovitch, chewing his lips, lifted his hand to his hat and went on. Vronsky saw him without looking round get into the carriage, pick up the rug and the opera-glass at the window and disappear. Vronsky went into the hall. His brows were scowling, and his eyes gleamed with a proud and angry light in them.
已经八点半了。他打电话给他的仆人，他匆匆穿好衣服，走到台阶上，完全忘记了这个梦想，只担心迟到了。当他开车到卡列宁家门口时，他看了看手表，发现时间是九点差十分。一辆又高又窄的灰色马车停在门口。他认出了安娜的马车。 “她正在来找我，”渥伦斯基想，“她应该来找我。”我不喜欢进那所房子。但是不要紧;我不能隐藏自己，”他想，用他从小就特有的方式，就像一个没有什么可羞耻的人一样，渥伦斯基下了雪橇，向门口走去。车门打开，手臂上搭着地毯的门房叫来了马车。渥伦斯基虽然平时不会注意到细节，但此刻却注意到了搬运工看他的眼神中带着惊讶的表情。在门口，渥伦斯基差点撞到阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇。气体射流将全部光线投射在黑帽子下毫无血色、凹陷的脸上和白色领带上，在海狸皮外套的映衬下显得格外明亮。卡列宁那双呆滞的目光死死地盯着渥伦斯基的脸。渥伦斯基鞠了一躬，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇咬着嘴唇，举起手捂住帽子，继续往前走。渥伦斯基头也不回地看见他上了马车，拿起地毯和窗边的大玻璃镜就消失了。渥伦斯基走进大厅。他的眉头皱起，眼眸中闪烁着骄傲和愤怒的光芒。

‘What a position!’ he thought. ‘If he would fight, would stand up for his honor, I could act, could express my feelings; but this weakness or baseness.... He puts me in the position of playing false, which I never meant and never mean to do.’
“多么好的地位啊！”他想。 “如果他愿意战斗，愿意捍卫自己的荣誉，我就可以行动，可以表达我的感受；但这种弱点或卑鄙……他让我陷入了撒谎的境地，我从来没有想过也从来没有想过这样做。

Vronsky’s ideas had changed since the day of his conversation with Anna in the Vrede garden. Unconsciously yielding to the weakness of Anna—who had surrendered herself up to him utterly, and simply looked to him to decide her fate, ready to submit to anything—he had long ceased to think that their tie might end as he had thought then. His ambitious plans had retreated into the background again, and feeling that he had got out of that circle of activity in which everything was definite, he had given himself entirely to his passion, and that passion was binding him more and more closely to her.
自从他在弗里德花园与安娜交谈的那天起，渥伦斯基的想法就发生了变化。他无意识地屈服于安娜的软弱——她已经完全臣服于他，只是指望他来决定她的命运，准备屈服于任何事情——他早已不再认为他们的关系可能会像他当时想象的那样结束。他雄心勃勃的计划又退到了幕后，他感觉自己已经脱离了一切都是确定的活动圈子，他把自己完全献给了自己的激情，而这种激情正把他和她越来越紧密地结合在一起。

He was still in the hall when he caught the sound of her retreating footsteps. He knew she had been expecting him, had listened for him, and was now going back to the drawing room.
还在大厅里的时候，他听到了她远去的脚步声。他知道她一直在等他，听过他的话，现在正要回客厅。

‘No,’ she cried, on seeing him, and at the first sound of her voice the tears came into her eyes. ‘No; if things are to go on like this, the end will come much, much too soon.’
“不，”她一看到他就喊道，当她第一次发出声音时，她的眼里就涌出了泪水。 '不;如果事情像这样继续下去，结局就会来得太快了。”

‘What is it, dear one?’
“亲爱的，这是什么？”

‘What? I’ve been waiting in agony for an hour, two hours...No, I won’t...I can’t quarrel with you. Of course you couldn’t come. No, I won’t.’ She laid her two hands on his shoulders, and looked a long while at him with a profound, passionate, and at the same time searching look. She was studying his face to make up for the time she had not seen him. She was, every time she saw him, making the picture of him in her imagination (incomparably superior, impossible in reality) fit with him as he really was.
'什么？我已经痛苦地等了一个小时、两个小时了……不，我不会……我不能和你吵架。你当然不能来。不，我不会。”她把两只手放在他的肩膀上，用深邃、热情、同时又探求的目光看着他良久。她正在研究他的脸，以弥补她没有见到他的时间。她每次见到他，都会让自己想象中的他（无比优越，现实中不可能）与他真实的样子相符。

Chapter 3
第3章

‘You met him?’ she asked, when they had sat down at the table in the lamplight. ‘You’re punished, you see, for being late.’
“你见过他吗？”当他们在灯光下的桌边坐下时，她问道。 “你看，你因为迟到而受到惩罚。”

‘Yes; but how was it? Wasn’t he to be at the council?’
'是的;但怎么样呢？他不是要参加议会吗？

‘He had been and come back, and was going out somewhere again. But that’s no matter. Don’t talk about it. Where have you been? With the prince still?’
“他去过又回来，又要去某个地方。但这没关系。不要谈论它。你去哪儿了？王子还在吗？

She knew every detail of his existence. He was going to say that he had been up all night and had dropped asleep, but looking at her thrilled and rapturous face, he was ashamed. And he said he had had to go to report on the prince’s departure.
她知道他存在的每一个细节。他本想说自己一夜没睡，已经睡着了，但看着她那激动又狂喜的脸，他却羞愧难当。他说他必须去报告王子的离开。

‘But it’s over now? He is gone?’
‘可是现在已经结束了？他已经去了？'

‘Thank God it’s over! You wouldn’t believe how insufferable it’s been for me.’
‘感谢上帝，一切都结束了！你不会相信这对我来说是多么难以忍受。

‘Why so? Isn’t it the life all of you, all young men, always lead?’ she said, knitting her brows; and taking up the crochet work that was lying on the table, she began drawing the hook out of it, without looking at Vronsky.
'为什么这样？这难道不是你们所有人、所有年轻人所过的生活吗？”她皱着眉头说道。她拿起桌上的钩针，开始把钩子拔出来，看也没看渥伦斯基。

‘I gave that life up long ago,’ said he, wondering at the change in her face, and trying to divine its meaning. ‘And I confess,’ he said, with a smile, showing his thick, white teeth, ‘this week I’ve been, as it were, looking at myself in a glass, seeing that life, and I didn’t like it.’
“我很久以前就放弃了那种生活，”他说，对她脸上的变化感到好奇，并试图猜测其中的含义。 “我承认，”他微笑着说道，露出厚厚的白牙，“这周我可以说是在镜子里看着自己，看到了那种生活，但我不喜欢这样的生活。” .'

She held the work in her hands, but did not crochet, and looked at him with strange, shining, and hostile eyes.
她手里拿着作品，但没有钩针，用奇怪、闪亮、充满敌意的眼神看着他。

‘This morning Liza came to see me—they’re not afraid to call on me, in spite of the Countess Lidia Ivanovna,’ she put in—‘and she told me about your Athenian evening. How loathsome!’
“今天早上，丽莎来看我——尽管有莉迪亚·伊万诺夫娜伯爵夫人，但他们并不害怕拜访我，”她插嘴道——“她还告诉我你的雅典之夜的事。”多么令人厌恶啊！

‘I was just going to say...’
“我只是想说……”

She interrupted him. ‘It was that Therese you used to know?’
她打断了他的话。 “就是你以前认识的特蕾莎吗？”

‘I was just saying...’
“我只是说……”

‘How disgusting you are, you men! How is it you can’t understand that a woman can never forget that,’ she said, getting more and more angry, and so letting him see the cause of her irritation, ‘especially a woman who cannot know your life? What do I know? What have I ever known?’ she said, ‘what you tell me. And how do I know whether you tell me the truth?...’
‘你们这些男人真是太恶心了！你怎么就不能理解女人永远不会忘记这一点，”她说，变得越来越生气，所以让他明白了她生气的原因，“尤其是一个不了解你生活的女人？我知道什么？我知道什么？”她说，“你告诉我什么。”我怎么知道你说的是不是实话呢？……”

‘Anna, you hurt me. Don’t you trust me? Haven’t I told you that I haven’t a thought I wouldn’t lay bare to you?’
‘安娜，你伤害了我。你不相信我吗？我不是告诉过你我不想向你坦白吗？

‘Yes, yes,’ she said, evidently trying to suppress her jealous thoughts. ‘But if only you knew how wretched I am! I believe you, I believe you.... What were you saying?’
“是的，是的，”她说道，显然是在努力压抑自己的嫉妒想法。 “但如果你知道我有多可怜就好了！”我相信你，我相信你……你在说什么？

But he could not at once recall what he had been going to say. These fits of jealousy, which of late had been more and more frequent with her, horrified him, and however much he tried to disguise the fact, made him feel cold to her, although he knew the cause of her jealousy was her love for him. How often he had told himself that her love was happiness; and now she loved him as a woman can love when love has outweighed for her all the good things of life—and he was much further from happiness than when he had followed her from Moscow. Then he had thought himself unhappy, but happiness was before him; now he felt that the best happiness was already left behind. She was utterly unlike what she had been when he first saw her. Both morally and physically she had changed for the worse. She had broadened out all over, and in her face at the time when she was speaking of the actress there was an evil expression of hatred that distorted it. He looked at her as a man looks at a faded flower he has gathered, with difficulty recognizing in it the beauty for which he picked and ruined it. And in spite of this he felt that then, when his love was stronger, he could, if he had greatly wished it, have torn that love out of his heart; but now, when as at that moment it seemed to him he felt no love for her, he knew that what bound him to her could not be broken.
但他立刻想不起自己要说什么。这些嫉妒，最近在她身上越来越频繁，让他感到恐惧，无论他如何试图掩饰事实，都让他对她感到冷漠，尽管他知道她嫉妒的原因是她对他的爱。 。他多少次告诉自己，她的爱就是幸福；现在，她爱他，就像一个女人所能爱的那样，当爱对她来说已经超过了生活中所有美好的事物时，他距离幸福比他跟随她离开莫斯科时要远得多。那时他以为自己不快乐，但幸福就在眼前；现在他觉得最好的幸福已经被抛在了身后。她和他第一次见到她时完全不一样了。无论是精神上还是身体上，她都变得更糟了。她整个人都膨胀了，当她谈到女演员时，她的脸上有一种邪恶的、扭曲的仇恨表情。他看着她，就像一个男人看着他采集的一朵凋谢的花，很难辨认出他摘下并毁掉它的美丽。尽管如此，他觉得，当他的爱更加强烈时，如果他非常愿意的话，他可以将这种爱从他的心中撕下来；但现在，当他觉得自己对她不再有爱的那一刻时，他知道他和她的联系无法被打破。

‘Well, well, what was it you were going to say about the prince? I have driven away the fiend,’ she added. The fiend was the name they had given her jealousy. ‘What did you begin to tell me about the prince? Why did you find it so tiresome?’
“好吧，好吧，关于王子你想说什么？我已经赶走了恶魔。”她补充道。恶魔是他们出于嫉妒而给她起的名字。 “你开始告诉我关于王子的什么事情？你为什么觉得这么无聊？

‘Oh, it was intolerable!’ he said, trying to pick up the thread of his interrupted thought. ‘He does not improve on closer acquaintance. If you want him defined, here he is: a prime, well-fed beast such as takes medals at the cattle shows, and nothing more,’ he said, with a tone of vexation that interested her.
“哦，这真是难以忍受！”他一边说，一边试图理清自己被打断的思绪。 ‘他并没有因为更加熟悉而有所进步。如果你想给他下个定义，他就是这样的：一头顶级的、吃得饱饱的野兽，比如在牛展上获得奖牌，仅此而已。”他说，语气中的烦恼让她很感兴趣。

‘No; how so?’ she replied. ‘He’s seen a great deal, anyway; he’s cultured?’
'不;怎么会这样呢？”她回答道。 “无论如何，他见过很多东西；他有文化吗？

‘It’s an utterly different culture—their culture. He’s cultivated, one sees, simply to be able to despise culture, as they despise everything but animal pleasures.’
“这是一种完全不同的文化——他们的文化。人们看出，他有教养，只是为了能够蔑视文化，就像他们蔑视除了动物的快乐之外的一切一样。

‘But don’t you all care for these animal pleasures?’ she said, and again he noticed a dark look in her eyes that avoided him.
“但是你们不都喜欢这些动物性的快乐吗？”她说道，他再次注意到她眼中的阴暗神情在回避他。

‘How is it you’re defending him?’ he said, smiling.
“你怎么会为他辩护呢？”他微笑着说道。

‘I’m not defending him, it’s nothing to me; but I imagine, if you had not cared for those pleasures yourself, you might have got out of them. But if it affords you satisfaction to gaze at Therese in the attire of Eve...’
“我不是在为他辩护，这对我来说没什么；但我想，如果你自己不关心这些快乐，你可能已经摆脱它们了。但如果你能满意地看着穿着夏娃服装的特蕾莎……”

‘Again, the devil again,’ Vronsky said, taking the hand she had laid on the table and kissing it.
“又来了，魔鬼又来了。”渥伦斯基说着，握住她放在桌子上的手，亲吻了它。

‘Yes; but I can’t help it. You don’t know what I have suffered waiting for you. I believe I’m not jealous. I’m not jealous: I believe you when you’re here; but when you’re away somewhere leading your life, so incomprehensible to me...’
'是的;但我忍不住。你不知道我在等你的时候承受了多少痛苦。我相信我不会嫉妒。我不嫉妒：你在的时候我就相信你；但当你离开某个地方过着自己的生活时，我就无法理解……”

She turned away from him, pulled the hook at last out of the crochet work, and rapidly, with the help of her forefinger, began working loop after loop of the wool that was dazzling white in the lamplight, while the slender wrist moved swiftly, nervously in the embroidered cuff.
她转过身去，终于把钩子从钩针中拔出来，然后用食指飞快地把在灯光下白得耀眼的羊毛一圈又一圈地织起来，而纤细的手腕则快速地移动着，紧张地在绣花袖口。

‘How was it, then? Where did you meet Alexey Alexandrovitch?’ Her voice sounded in an unnatural and jarring tone.
‘那么，怎么样？你在哪里遇见阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇的？”她的声音听起来不自然、刺耳。

‘We ran up against each other in the doorway.’
“我们在门口撞到了。”

‘And he bowed to you like this?’
“他就这样向你鞠躬了吗？”

She drew a long face, and half-closing her eyes, quickly transformed her expression, folded her hands, and Vronsky suddenly saw in her beautiful face the very expression with which Alexey Alexandrovitch had bowed to him. He smiled, while she laughed gaily, with that sweet, deep laugh, which was one of her greatest charms.
她画了一张长脸，半闭上眼睛，迅速改变了她的表情，双手合十，渥伦斯基突然在她美丽的脸上看到了阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇向他鞠躬时的表情。他笑了，而她则欢快地笑，笑起来甜甜的、深沉的，这是她最大的魅力之一。

‘I don’t understand him in the least,’ said Vronsky. ‘If after your avowal to him at your country house he had broken with you, if he had called me out—but this I can’t understand. How can he put up with such a position? He feels it, that’s evident.’
“我一点也不理解他，”渥伦斯基说。 “如果你在乡间别墅向他表白后，他就和你决裂了，如果他叫我出去——但这我无法理解。他怎么能忍受这样的地位呢？他感觉到了，这是显而易见的。

‘He?’ she said sneeringly. ‘He’s perfectly satisfied.’
“他？”她冷笑道。 “他非常满意。”

‘What are we all miserable for, when everything might be so happy?’
“当一切都那么幸福的时候，我们为什么还要痛苦呢？”

‘Only not he. Don’t I know him, the falsity in which he’s utterly steeped?... Could one, with any feeling, live as he is living with me? He understands nothing, and feels nothing. Could a man of any feeling live in the same house with his unfaithful wife? Could he talk to her, call her ‘my dear’?’
‘只不过不是他。难道我不认识他，他完全沉浸在虚假之中吗？……一个人能带着任何感觉，像他和我一起生活一样吗？他什么也不懂，什么也感觉不到。一个有感情的男人能和他不忠的妻子住在同一所房子里吗？他能和她说话，叫她“亲爱的”吗？

And again she could not help mimicking him: ‘‘Anna, ma chere; Anna, dear’!’
她又情不自禁地模仿他：“安娜，我的妈妈；”安娜，亲爱的’！’

‘He’s not a man, not a human being—he’s a doll! No one knows him; but I know him. Oh, if I’d been in his place, I’d long ago have killed, have torn to pieces a wife like me. I wouldn’t have said, ‘Anna, ma chere’! He’s not a man, he’s an official machine. He doesn’t understand that I’m your wife, that he’s outside, that he’s superfluous.... Don’t let’s talk of him!...’
“他不是一个人，不是一个人——他是一个洋娃娃！”没有人认识他；但我认识他。哦，如果我处在他的位置，我早就杀了、撕碎了像我这样的妻子。我不会说：“安娜，我的妈妈”！他不是一个人，他是一个官方机器。他不明白我是你的妻子，不明白他在外面，不明白他是多余的……别再谈论他了！……”

‘You’re unfair, very unfair, dearest,’ said Vronsky, trying to soothe her. ‘But never mind, don’t let’s talk of him. Tell me what you’ve been doing? What is the matter? What has been wrong with you, and what did the doctor say?’
“你不公平，非常不公平，亲爱的，”渥伦斯基说道，试图安抚她。 “不过没关系，我们不要谈论他。”告诉我你一直在做什么？什么事？你怎么了？医生怎么说？

She looked at him with mocking amusement. Evidently she had hit on other absurd and grotesque aspects in her husband and was awaiting the moment to give expression to them.
她带着嘲弄的兴趣看着他。显然，她已经发现了丈夫身上其他荒唐怪诞的一面，正在等待时机将其表达出来。

But he went on:
但他继续说道：

‘I imagine that it’s not illness, but your condition. When will it be?’
“我想这不是疾病，而是你的状况。什么时候呢？

The ironical light died away in her eyes, but a different smile, a consciousness of something, he did not know what, and of quiet melancholy, came over her face.
她眼中讽刺的光芒消失了，但她的脸上浮现出一种不同的微笑，一种他不知道是什么的意识，还有一种安静的忧郁。

‘Soon, soon. You say that our position is miserable, that we must put an end to it. If you knew how terrible it is to me, what I would give to be able to love you freely and boldly! I should not torture myself and torture you with my jealousy.... And it will come soon, but not as we expect.’
‘很快，很快。你说我们的处境很悲惨，我们必须结束它。如果你知道这对我来说是多么可怕，我愿意付出什么才能自由大胆地爱你！我不应该用嫉妒来折磨自己和折磨你……它很快就会到来，但不会像我们期望的那样。

And at the thought of how it would come, she seemed so pitiable to herself that tears came into her eyes, and she could not go on. She laid her hand on his sleeve, dazzling and white with its rings in the lamplight.
一想到事情会怎样，她觉得自己好可怜，眼泪就流下来了，说不下去了。她把手放在他的衣袖上，在灯光下，手环显得洁白耀眼。

‘It won’t come as we suppose. I didn’t mean to say this to you, but you’ve made me. Soon, soon, all will be over, and we shall all, all be at peace, and suffer no more.’
‘它不会像我们想象的那样到来。我本来不想对你说这些，但你创造了我。很快，很快，一切都会结束，我们所有人都会平安，不再受苦。

‘I don’t understand,’ he said, understanding her.
“我不明白，”他理解她的意思。

‘You asked when? Soon. And I shan’t live through it. Don’t interrupt me!’ and she made haste to speak. ‘I know it; I know for certain. I shall die; and I’m very glad I shall die, and release myself and you.’
‘你问什么时候？很快。我不会经历这一切。别打扰我！”她急忙开口说道。 '我知道这;我肯定知道。我将死去；我很高兴我会死，并释放我自己和你。”

Tears dropped from her eyes; he bent down over her hand and began kissing it, trying to hide his emotion, which, he knew, had no sort of grounds, though he could not control it.
泪水从她的眼中流下；他弯下腰​​，开始亲吻她的手，试图掩饰自己的情绪，他知道，这种情绪毫无根据，尽管他无法控制。

‘Yes, it’s better so,’ she said, tightly gripping his hand. ‘That’s the only way, the only way left us.’
“是的，这样更好，”她说，紧紧地握住他的手。 “这是唯一的路，唯一的路离开了我们。”

He had recovered himself, and lifted his head.
他这才回过神来，抬起了头。

‘How absurd! What absurd nonsense you are talking!’
‘多么荒唐啊！你在说什么荒谬的废话！

‘No, it’s the truth.’
“不，这是事实。”

‘What, what’s the truth?’
“什么，真相是什么？”

‘That I shall die. I have had a dream.’
‘我会死。我有一个梦想。

‘A dream?’ repeated Vronsky, and instantly he recalled the peasant of his dream.
“一个梦？”渥伦斯基重复道，他立刻想起了梦中的那个农民。

‘Yes, a dream,’ she said. ‘It’s a long while since I dreamed it. I dreamed that I ran into my bedroom, that I had to get something there, to find out something; you know how it is in dreams,’ she said, her eyes wide with horror; ‘and in the bedroom, in the corner, stood something.’
“是的，一个梦，”她说。 ‘我已经很久没有做这个梦了。我梦见我跑进我的卧室，我必须去那里拿一些东西，找出一些东西；你知道梦里是怎样的。”她睁大了眼睛，充满恐惧。 “在卧室的角落里，立着一些东西。”

‘Oh, what nonsense! How can you believe...’
‘噢，胡说八道！你怎么能相信……”

But she would not let him interrupt her. What she was saying was too important to her.
但她不会让他打扰她。她说的话对她来说太重要了。

‘And the something turned round, and I saw it was a peasant with a disheveled beard, little, and dreadful looking. I wanted to run away, but he bent down over a sack, and was fumbling there with his hands...’
‘然后那个东西转过身来，我看到那是一个胡子蓬乱的农民，身材矮小，样子可怕。我想逃跑，但他弯下腰，用手在麻袋上摸索……”

She showed how he had moved his hands. There was terror in her face. And Vronsky, remembering his dream, felt the same terror filling his soul.
她展示了他如何移动双手。她的脸上露出惊恐之色。渥伦斯基想起他的梦，感到同样的恐惧充满了他的灵魂。

‘He was fumbling and kept talking quickly, quickly in French, you know: Il faut le battre, le fer, le brayer, le petrir.... And in my horror I tried to wake up, and woke up...but woke up in the dream. And I began asking myself what it meant. And Korney said to me: ‘In childbirth you’ll die, ma’am, you’ll die....’ And I woke up.’
“他支支吾吾，一直在快速地用法语说话，你知道：Il faut le battre、le fer、le brayer、le petrir……在我的恐惧中，我试图醒来，然后醒了……但是在梦中醒来。我开始问自己这意味着什么。科尼对我说：“在分娩时你会死，女士，你会死……”然后我就醒了。

‘What nonsense, what nonsense!’ said Vronsky; but he felt himself that there was no conviction in his voice.
“胡言乱语，胡言乱语！”渥伦斯基说道。但他自己觉得自己的声音里没有任何确信。

‘But don’t let’s talk of it. Ring the bell, I’ll have tea. And stay a little now; it’s not long I shall...’
‘但是我们别谈这个了。按铃，我去喝茶。现在就呆一会儿吧；不久我就会……”

But all at once she stopped. The expression of her face instantaneously changed. Horror and excitement were suddenly replaced by a look of soft, solemn, blissful attention. He could not comprehend the meaning of the change. She was listening to the stirring of the new life within her.
但她突然停了下来。她的脸色瞬间就变了。恐惧和兴奋突然被柔和、庄严、幸福的关注所取代。他无法理解这种变化的意义。她正在倾听她体内新生命的激动。

Chapter 4
第4章

Alexey Alexandrovitch, after meeting Vronsky on his own steps, drove, as he had intended, to the Italian opera. He sat through two acts there, and saw everyone he had wanted to see. On returning home, he carefully scrutinized the hat stand, and noticing that there was not a military overcoat there, he went, as usual, to his own room. But, contrary to his usual habit, he did not go to bed, he walked up and down his study till three o’clock in the morning. The feeling of furious anger with his wife, who would not observe the proprieties and keep to the one stipulation he had laid on her, not to receive her lover in her own home, gave him no peace. She had not complied with his request, and he was bound to punish her and carry out his threat—obtain a divorce and take away his son. He knew all the difficulties connected with this course, but he had said he would do it, and now he must carry out his threat. Countess Lidia Ivanovna had hinted that this was the best way out of his position, and of late the obtaining of divorces had been brought to such perfection that Alexey Alexandrovitch saw a possibility of overcoming the formal difficulties. Misfortunes never come singly, and the affairs of the reorganization of the native tribes, and of the irrigation of the lands of the Zaraisky province, had brought such official worries upon Alexey Alexandrovitch that he had been of late in a continual condition of extreme irritability.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇在自己的台阶上遇见渥伦斯基后，如他所愿，开车去了意大利歌剧院。他在那里坐了两场演出，见到了他想见的每个人。回到家，他仔细看了看帽架，发现里面没有军大衣，便像往常一样走进了自己的房间。但他却一反常态，没有睡觉，而是在书房里走来走去，直到凌晨三点。他的妻子不遵守礼节，不遵守他对她规定的一项规定，不准在自己家里接待她的情人，他对妻子感到非常愤怒，这让他不安。她没有答应他的要求，他必然要惩罚她，兑现他的威胁——离婚，带走儿子。他知道与这门课程相关的所有困难，但他说过他会做到，现在他必须兑现他的威胁。莉迪亚·伊万诺夫娜伯爵夫人暗示说，这是摆脱他的地位的最好办法，最近离婚的办理已经变得如此完美，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇看到了克服形式上的困难的可能性。不幸从来都不是单独发生的，土著部落的重组和扎赖斯基省土地的灌溉问题给阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇带来了官方的担忧，以至于他最近一直处于极度烦躁的状态。

He did not sleep the whole night, and his fury, growing in a sort of vast, arithmetical progression, reached its highest limits in the morning. He dressed in haste, and as though carrying his cup full of wrath, and fearing to spill any over, fearing to lose with his wrath the energy necessary for the interview with his wife, he went into her room directly he heard she was up.
他整夜没有睡觉，他的愤怒以一种巨大的算术级数增长，在早上达到了最高点。他匆匆穿好衣服，手里的杯子里装满了愤怒，生怕洒出来，生怕因愤怒而失去了会见妻子所需的精力，一听到她起床，他就走进了她的房间。

Anna, who had thought she knew her husband so well, was amazed at his appearance when he went in to her. His brow was lowering, and his eyes stared darkly before him, avoiding her eyes; his mouth was tightly and contemptuously shut. In his walk, in his gestures, in the sound of his voice there was a determination and firmness such as his wife had never seen in him. He went into her room, and without greeting her, walked straight up to her writing-table, and taking her keys, opened a drawer.
安娜本以为自己很了解自己的丈夫，但当他走进她的房间时，她对他的外表感到惊讶。他的眉头低垂着，目光阴沉地盯着前方，避开了她的目光。他的嘴轻蔑地紧紧闭着。他的步伐、他的手势、他的声音里都透着他妻子从未见过的决心和坚定。他走进她的房间，没有跟她打招呼，径直走到她的写字台前，拿了她的钥匙，打开了一个抽屉。

‘What do you want?’ she cried.
“你想要什么？”她喊道。

‘Your lover’s letters,’ he said.
“你情人的信，”他说。

‘They’re not here,’ she said, shutting the drawer; but from that action he saw he had guessed right, and roughly pushing away her hand, he quickly snatched a portfolio in which he knew she used to put her most important papers. She tried to pull the portfolio away, but he pushed her back.
“他们不在这里，”她说着关上了抽屉。但从那个动作来看，他发现自己猜对了，粗鲁地推开她的手，他迅速抓起一个文件夹，他知道她过去常常把最重要的文件放在里面。她试图把文件夹拿开，但他把她推了回来。

‘Sit down! I have to speak to you,’ he said, putting the portfolio under his arm, and squeezing it so tightly with his elbow that his shoulder stood up. Amazed and intimidated, she gazed at him in silence.
'坐下！我得和你谈谈。”他一边说，一边把公文包夹在腋下，用肘部紧紧地捏着它，肩膀都竖起来了。她惊讶又害怕，默默地看着他。

‘I told you that I would not allow you to receive your lover in this house.’
“我告诉过你，我不会允许你在这所房子里接待你的爱人。”

‘I had to see him to...’
“我必须见他……”

She stopped, not finding a reason.
她停了下来，没有找到理由。

‘I do not enter into the details of why a woman wants to see her lover.’
“我不会详细解释为什么女人想见她的情人。”

‘I meant, I only...’ she said, flushing hotly. This coarseness of his angered her, and gave her courage. ‘Surely you must feel how easy it is for you to insult me?’ she said.
“我的意思是，我只是……”她说，脸涨得通红。他的粗鲁激怒了她，却给了她勇气。 “你肯定觉得侮辱我是多么容易吧？”她说。

‘An honest man and an honest woman may be insulted, but to tell a thief he’s a thief is simply la constatation d’un fait.’
“一个诚实的男人和一个诚实的女人可能会受到侮辱，但告诉一个小偷他是小偷，这简直就是不成事实。”

‘This cruelty is something new I did not know in you.’
“这种残忍行为是我在你身上所不知道的。”

‘You call it cruelty for a husband to give his wife liberty, giving her the honorable protection of his name, simply on the condition of observing the proprieties: is that cruelty?’
“丈夫给予妻子自由，给予她名誉的光荣保护，而仅仅以遵守礼节为条件，你称之为残忍：这算残忍吗？”

‘It’s worse than cruel—it’s base, if you want to know!’ Anna cried, in a rush of hatred, and getting up, she was going away.
“这比残忍更糟糕——这是卑鄙的，如果你想知道的话！”安娜带着强烈的仇恨喊道，然后站了起来，准备走开。

‘No!’ he shrieked, in his shrill voice, which pitched a note higher than usual even, and his big hands clutching her by the arm so violently that red marks were left from the bracelet he was squeezing, he forcibly sat her down in her place.
“不！”他尖声叫道，声音比平时还高了几分，大手用力地抓住她的手臂，手镯被捏得都留下了红痕，强行让她坐下。她的地方。

‘Base! If you care to use that word, what is base is to forsake husband and child for a lover, while you eat your husband’s bread!’
'根据！如果你愿意用这个词的话，那么卑鄙的就是为了情人而抛弃丈夫和孩子，而你却吃着你丈夫的面包！

She bowed her head. She did not say what she had said the evening before to her lover, that he was her husband, and her husband was superfluous; she did not even think that. She felt all the justice of his words, and only said softly:
她低下了头。她没有像前一天晚上对她的情人所说的那样，说他是她的丈夫，而她的丈夫是多余的。她根本不这么认为。她觉得他的话很有道理，只是轻声说道：

‘You cannot describe my position as worse than I feel it to be myself; but what are you saying all this for?’
“你无法形容我的处境比我自己的处境更糟糕；”但你说这些是为了什么？

‘What am I saying it for? what for?’ he went on, as angrily. ‘That you may know that since you have not carried out my wishes in regard to observing outward decorum, I will take measures to put an end to this state of things.’
‘我这么说是为了什么？为了什么？”他愤怒地继续说道。 “让你知道，既然你没有实现我在遵守外表礼仪方面的愿望，我将采取措施结束这种情况。”

‘Soon, very soon, it will end, anyway,’ she said; and again, at the thought of death near at hand and now desired, tears came into her eyes.
“无论如何，很快，很快，一切都会结束，”她说。一想到死亡近在眼前，她又渴望死亡，她的眼里再次涌出泪水。

‘It will end sooner than you and your lover have planned! If you must have the satisfaction of animal passion...’
‘它会比你和你的爱人计划的更早结束！如果你必须获得动物激情的满足……”

‘Alexey Alexandrovitch! I won’t say it’s not generous, but it’s not like a gentleman to strike anyone who’s down.’
“阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇！我不会说这不慷慨，但打击任何失意的人并不像一个绅士。”

‘Yes, you only think of yourself! But the sufferings of a man who was your husband have no interest for you. You don’t care that his whole life is ruined, that he is thuff...thuff...’
‘是啊，你只想到你自己！但作为你丈夫的男人的痛苦对你来说毫无意义。你不在乎他的一生都被毁了，他是个废物……废物……”

Alexey Alexandrovitch was speaking so quickly that he stammered, and was utterly unable to articulate the word ‘suffering.’ In the end he pronounced it ‘thuffering.’ She wanted to laugh, and was immediately ashamed that anything could amuse her at such a moment. And for the first time, for an instant, she felt for him, put herself in his place, and was sorry for him. But what could she say or do? Her head sank, and she sat silent. He too was silent for some time, and then began speaking in a frigid, less shrill voice, emphasizing random words that had no special significance.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇语速太快，结结巴巴，完全无法说出“痛苦”这个词。最后他念成“颤抖”。她想笑，但立刻感到羞愧，在这种时刻有什么能让她开心的事。 。在那一瞬间，她第一次感受到了他，设身处地为他着想，为他感到难过。但她能说什么或做什么呢？她的头低了下去，静静地坐着。他也沉默了一会儿，然后开始用冰冷、不那么尖锐的声音说话，强调一些没有特殊意义的随意词语。

‘I came to tell you...’ he said.
“我来是为了告诉你……”他说。

She glanced at him. ‘No, it was my fancy,’ she thought, recalling the expression of his face when he stumbled over the word ‘suffering.’ ‘No; can a man with those dull eyes, with that self-satisfied complacency, feel anything?’
她看了他一眼。 “不，那是我的幻想，”她想道，回想起当他无意中说出“痛苦”这个词时他脸上的表情。一个眼睛呆滞、自鸣得意的人能感觉到什么吗？

‘I cannot change anything,’ she whispered.
“我无法改变任何事情，”她低声说道。

‘I have come to tell you that I am going tomorrow to Moscow, and shall not return again to this house, and you will receive notice of what I decide through the lawyer into whose hands I shall intrust the task of getting a divorce. My son is going to my sister’s,’ said Alexey Alexandrovitch, with an effort recalling what he had meant to say about his son.
“我来告诉你，我明天要去莫斯科，不会再回到这所房子，你将通过律师收到我决定的通知，我将把离婚的任务交给他。我儿子要去我姐姐家。”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇说道，他努力回忆起他本来想对儿子说的话。

‘You take Seryozha to hurt me,’ she said, looking at him from under her brows. ‘You do not love him.... Leave me Seryozha!’
“你拿谢廖扎来伤害我，”她说道，从眉毛下面看着他。 “你不爱他……离开我谢廖扎！”

‘Yes, I have lost even my affection for my son, because he is associated with the repulsion I feel for you. But still I shall take him. Goodbye!’
“是的，我什至失去了对我儿子的感情，因为他与我对你的厌恶联系在一起。但我还是要带他走。再见！'

And he was going away, but now she detained him.
他本来要走，但现在她却扣留了他。

‘Alexey Alexandrovitch, leave me Seryozha!’ she whispered once more. ‘I have nothing else to say. Leave Seryozha till my...I shall soon be confined; leave him!’
“阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇，把谢廖扎留给我吧！”她再次低声说道。 ‘我没什么可说的了。留下Seryozha直到我的……我很快就会被限制；离开他！'

Alexey Alexandrovitch flew into a rage, and, snatching his hand from her, he went out of the room without a word.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇勃然大怒，从她手里夺过手，一言不发地走出了房间。

Chapter 5
第5章

The waiting-room of the celebrated Petersburg lawyer was full when Alexey Alexandrovitch entered it. Three ladies—an old lady, a young lady, and a merchant’s wife—and three gentlemen— one a German banker with a ring on his finger, the second a merchant with a beard, and the third a wrathful-looking government clerk in official uniform, with a cross on his neck— had obviously been waiting a long while already. Two clerks were writing at tables with scratching pens. The appurtenances of the writing-tables, about which Alexey Alexandrovitch was himself very fastidious, were exceptionally good. He could not help observing this. One of the clerks, without getting up, turned wrathfully to Alexey Alexandrovitch, half closing his eyes. ‘What are you wanting?’
当阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇走进彼得堡著名律师的候诊室时，候诊室已经挤满了人。三位女士——一位老太太、一位年轻女士和一位商人的妻子——还有三位绅士——一位是手指上戴着戒指的德国银行家，第二位是留着胡子的商人，第三位是一脸愤怒的政府职员。制服，脖子上挂着十字架——显然已经等了很久了。两个职员正在桌子上用草笔写字。阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇本人对写字台的配件非常挑剔，写字台的配件非常好。他忍不住观察这一点。一名职员没有站起来，半闭着眼睛，愤怒地转向阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇。 “你想要什么？”

He replied that he had to see the lawyer on some business.
他回答说他有事要见律师。

‘He is engaged,’ the clerk responded severely, and he pointed with his pen at the persons waiting, and went on writing.
“他订婚了。”店员严肃地回答，然后用笔指着等待的人，继续写。

‘Can’t he spare time to see me?’ said Alexey Alexandrovitch.
“他就不能抽出时间来看我吗？”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇说道。

‘He has no time free; he is always busy. Kindly wait your turn.’
“他没有空闲时间；他总是很忙。请等待轮到你了。

‘Then I must trouble you to give him my card,’ Alexey Alexandrovitch said with dignity, seeing the impossibility of preserving his incognito.
“那我就麻烦你把我的名片给他了，”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇看到自己不可能隐姓埋名，尊严地说。

The clerk took the card and, obviously not approving of what he read on it, went to the door.
店员接过卡，显然不同意他上面读的内容，然后走到门口。

Alexey Alexandrovitch was in principle in favor of the publicity of legal proceedings, though for some higher official considerations he disliked the application of the principle in Russia, and disapproved of it, as far as he could disapprove of anything instituted by authority of the Emperor. His whole life had been spent in administrative work, and consequently, when he did not approve of anything, his disapproval was softened by the recognition of the inevitability of mistakes and the possibility of reform in every department. In the new public law courts he disliked the restrictions laid on the lawyers conducting cases. But till then he had had nothing to do with the law courts, and so had disapproved of their publicity simply in theory; now his disapprobation was strengthened by the unpleasant impression made on him in the lawyer’s waiting room.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇原则上赞成公开法律程序，尽管出于一些高级官员的考虑，他不喜欢在俄罗斯应用这一原则，并且不赞成它，因为他可以反对任何由皇帝权威制定的事情。他一生都在行政工作中度过，因此，当他不赞成任何事情时，他的不赞成因认识到错误的不可避免性和每个部门都有改革的可能性而软化了。在新的公法法庭中，他不喜欢对律师办案的限制。但在此之前，他与法院没有任何关系，因此仅在理论上不同意法院的公开化；现在，他在律师候诊室里留下的不愉快的印象进一步加深了他的不满。

‘Coming immediately,’ said the clerk; and two minutes later there did actually appear in the doorway the large figure of an old solicitor who had been consulting with the lawyer himself.
“马上来，”店员说。两分钟后，门口果然出现了一位老律师的高大身影，他正在亲自与律师协商。

The lawyer was a little, squat, bald man, with a dark, reddish beard, light-colored long eyebrows, and an overhanging brow. He was attired as though for a wedding, from his cravat to his double watch-chain and varnished boots. His face was clever and manly, but his dress was dandified and in bad taste.
律师是个身材矮小、矮胖、秃头的男人，留着深色的红胡子，浅色的长眉毛，眉头悬垂。从领带到双表链，再到涂漆的靴子，他的打扮就像是在参加婚礼。他的脸聪明而有男子气概，但他的衣服却很花哨，品味很差。

‘Pray walk in,’ said the lawyer, addressing Alexey Alexandrovitch; and, gloomily ushering Karenin in before him, he closed the door.
“请进来吧，”律师对阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇说道。他阴沉地把卡列宁领进自己面前，然后关上了门。

‘Won’t you sit down?’ He indicated an armchair at a writing table covered with papers. He sat down himself, and, rubbing his little hands with short fingers covered with white hairs, he bent his head on one side. But as soon as he was settled in this position a moth flew over the table. The lawyer, with a swiftness that could never have been expected of him, opened his hands, caught the moth, and resumed his former attitude.
“你不坐下吗？”他指着摆满文件的写字台旁的一把扶手椅。他自己坐下来，用长满白毛的短指搓着小手，把头偏向一侧。但他刚坐好，一只飞蛾就飞过了桌子。律师以出乎意料的速度，张开双手，抓住了飞蛾，又恢复了原来的态度。

‘Before beginning to speak of my business,’ said Alexey Alexandrovitch, following the lawyer’s movements with wondering eyes, ‘I ought to observe that the business about which I have to speak to you is to be strictly private.’
“在开始谈论我的事情之前，”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇说道，他用疑惑的目光注视着律师的动作，“我应该注意的是，我要和你谈论的事情是严格保密的。”

The lawyer’s overhanging reddish mustaches were parted in a scarcely perceptible smile.
律师的红胡子悬垂在外，露出一丝难以察觉的微笑。

‘I should not be a lawyer if I could not keep the secrets confided to me. But if you would like proof...’
“如果我不能保守秘密，我就不应该成为一名律师。但如果你想要证据……”

Alexey Alexandrovitch glanced at his face, and saw that the shrewd, gray eyes were laughing, and seemed to know all about it already.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇瞥了一眼他的脸，发现那双精明的灰色眼睛正在笑，似乎已经知道了这一切。

‘You know my name?’ Alexey Alexandrovitch resumed.
“你知道我的名字吗？”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇继续说道。

‘I know you and the good’—again he caught a moth—‘work you are doing, like every Russian,’ said the lawyer, bowing.
“我了解你和好人”——他又抓到了一只飞蛾——“你正在做的工作，就像每个俄罗斯人一样，”律师鞠躬说。

Alexey Alexandrovitch sighed, plucking up his courage. But having once made up his mind he went on in his shrill voice, without timidity—or hesitation, accentuating here and there a word.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇叹了口气，鼓起勇气。但一旦下定决心，他就用尖锐的声音继续说下去，没有胆怯——也没有犹豫，时不时地强调一个词。

‘I have the misfortune,’ Alexey Alexandrovitch began, ‘to have been deceived in my married life, and I desire to break off all relations with my wife by legal means—that is, to be divorced, but to do this so that my son may not remain with his mother.’
“我很不幸，”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇开始说道，“在婚姻生活中受到了欺骗，我希望通过合法手段与我的妻子断绝一切关系——也就是说，离婚，但这样做是为了让我的儿子可能不会和他的母亲在一起。

The lawyer’s gray eyes tried not to laugh, but they were dancing with irrepressible glee, and Alexey Alexandrovitch saw that it was not simply the delight of a man who has just got a profitable job: there was triumph and joy, there was a gleam like the malignant gleam he saw in his wife’s eyes.
律师的灰色眼睛试图不笑，但他们在抑制不住的喜悦中跳舞，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇看到这不仅仅是一个刚刚找到一份有利可图的工作的人的喜悦：有胜利和喜悦，有一种像他在妻子眼中看到了恶毒的光芒。

‘You desire my assistance in securing a divorce?’
“你需要我协助离婚吗？”

‘Yes, precisely so; but I ought to warn you that I may be wasting your time and attention. I have come simply to consult you as a preliminary step. I want a divorce, but the form in which it is possible is of great consequence to me. It is very possible that if that form does not correspond with my requirements I may give up a legal divorce.’
“是的，确实如此；但我应该警告你，我可能会浪费你的时间和注意力。我来这里只是为了向您咨询，作为一个初步的步骤。我想要离婚，但离婚的形式对我来说非常重要。如果该表格不符合我的要求，我很可能会放弃合法离婚。

‘Oh, that’s always the case,’ said the lawyer, ‘and that’s always for you to decide.’
“哦，情况总是如此，”律师说，“这总是由你决定。”

He let his eyes rest on Alexey Alexandrovitch’s feet, feeling that he might offend his client by the sight of his irrepressible amusement. He looked at a moth that flew before his nose, and moved his hands, but did not catch it from regard for Alexey Alexandrovitch’s position.
他把目光落在阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇的脚上，觉得自己可能会因为看到他抑制不住的愉悦而冒犯他的委托人。他看着一只在他鼻子前飞过的飞蛾，并移动了他的手，但由于考虑到阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇的位置，他没有抓住它。

‘Though in their general features our laws on this subject are known to me,’ pursued Alexey Alexandrovitch, ‘I should be glad to have an idea of the forms in which such things are done in practice.’
“虽然我了解我们关于这个问题的法律的一般特征，”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇继续说道，“但我应该很高兴了解这些事情在实践中进行的形式。”

‘You would be glad,’ the lawyer, without lifting his eyes, responded, adopting, with a certain satisfaction, the tone of his client’s remarks, ‘for me to lay before you all the methods by which you could secure what you desire?’
“你会很高兴，”律师没有抬起眼睛，回答道，并满意地采用了他委托人的语气，“让我向你展示所有可以让你得到你想要的东西的方法？” '

And on receiving an assuring nod from Alexey Alexandrovitch, he went on, stealing a glance now and then at Alexey Alexandrovitch’s face, which was growing red in patches.
在得到阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇肯定的点头后，他继续说下去，时不时地偷瞄一眼阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇的脸，他的脸越来越红。

‘Divorce by our laws,’ he said, with a slight shade of disapprobation of our laws, ‘is possible, as you are aware, in the following cases.... Wait a little!’ he called to a clerk who put his head in at the door, but he got up all the same, said a few words to him, and sat down again. ‘...In the following cases: physical defect in the married parties, desertion without communication for five years,’ he said, crooking a short finger covered with hair, ‘adultery’ (this word he pronounced with obvious satisfaction), ‘subdivided as follows’ (he continued to crook his fat fingers, though the three cases and their subdivisions could obviously not be classified together): ‘physical defect of the husband or of the wife, adultery of the husband or of the wife.’ As by now all his fingers were used up, he uncrooked all his fingers and went on: ‘This is the theoretical view; but I imagine you have done me the honor to apply to me in order to learn its application in practice. And therefore, guided by precedents, I must inform you that in practice cases of divorce may all be reduced to the following— there’s no physical defect, I may assume, nor desertion?...’
“按照我们的法律离婚，”他带着对我们法律的轻微不赞成的语气说，“如你所知，在下列情况下是可能的……等一下！”他对一名职员喊道，职员把他的走到门口，他还是站起来，跟他说了几句话，又坐下了。 “......在以下情况下：已婚双方的身体缺陷，五年内没有任何联系的遗弃，”他弯曲着一根长满头发的短手指，“通奸”（他显然满意地发音这个词），“细分”如下（他继续弯曲他的胖手指，尽管这三个案件及其细分显然不能归类在一起）：“丈夫或妻子的身体缺陷，丈夫或妻子的通奸。”如现在他的手指都用完了，他松开了所有的手指，继续说道：“这是理论观点；但我想你很荣幸向我提出申请，以便学习其在实践中的应用。因此，根据先例，我必须告诉你，在实践中，离婚案件都可以归结为以下几点——我可以假设，没有身体缺陷，也没有遗弃？……”

Alexey Alexandrovitch bowed his head in assent.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇低下头表示同意。

‘—May be reduced to the following: adultery of one of the married parties, and the detection in the fact of the guilty party by mutual agreement, and failing such agreement, accidental detection. It must be admitted that the latter case is rarely met with in practice,’ said the lawyer, and stealing a glance at Alexey Alexandrovitch he paused, as a man selling pistols, after enlarging on the advantages of each weapon, might await his customer’s choice. But Alexey Alexandrovitch said nothing, and therefore the lawyer went on: ‘The most usual and simple, the sensible course, I consider, is adultery by mutual consent. I should not permit myself to express it so, speaking with a man of no education,’ he said, ‘but I imagine that to you this is comprehensible.’
“——可以简化为以下内容：已婚一方通奸，并经双方同意发现有罪一方的事实，如果没有达成一致，则为意外发现。必须承认，后一种情况在实践中很少遇到，”律师说，他停了下来，偷偷看了一眼阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇，就像一个卖手枪的人，在详细介绍了每种武器的优点后，可能会等待客户的选择。但阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇什么也没说，因此律师继续说道：“我认为，最常见、最简单、最明智的做法是双方同意的通奸。我不应该允许自己在与一个没有受过教育的人交谈时这样表达，”他说，“但我想对你来说这是可以理解的。

Alexey Alexandrovitch was, however, so perturbed that he did not immediately comprehend all the good sense of adultery by mutual consent, and his eyes expressed this uncertainty; but the lawyer promptly came to his assistance.
然而，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇非常不安，以至于他没有立即理解双方同意的通奸的所有美好感觉，他的眼睛表达了这种不确定性；但律师很快就来帮助他。

‘People cannot go on living together—here you have a fact. And if both are agreed about it, the details and formalities become a matter of no importance. And at the same time this is the simplest and most certain method.’
“人们不能继续生活在一起——这是一个事实。如果双方都同意，细节和手续就变得不重要了。同时，这是最简单、最确定的方法。”

Alexey Alexandrovitch fully understood now. But he had religious scruples, which hindered the execution of such a plan.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇现在完全明白了。但他有宗教顾忌，这阻碍了这样一个计划的执行。

‘That is out of the question in the present case,’ he said. ‘Only one alternative is possible: undesigned detection, supported by letters which I have.’
“在本案中这是不可能的，”他说。 “只有一种选择是可能的：未经设计的检测，并有我拥有的信件支持。”

At the mention of letters the lawyer pursed up his lips, and gave utterance to a thin little compassionate and contemptuous sound.
一提到信件，律师就撅起嘴唇，发出微弱的同情和轻蔑的声音。

‘Kindly consider,’ he began, ‘cases of that kind are, as you are aware, under ecclesiastical jurisdiction; the reverend fathers are fond of going into the minutest details in cases of that kind,’ he said with a smile, which betrayed his sympathy with the reverend fathers’ taste. ‘Letters may, of course, be a partial confirmation; but detection in the fact there must be of the most direct kind, that is, by eyewitnesses. In fact, if you do me the honor to intrust your confidence to me, you will do well to leave me the choice of the measures to be employed. If one wants the result, one must admit the means.’
“请考虑一下，”他开始说道，“正如你们所知，此类案件属于教会管辖； “神父们喜欢在这种情况下追究最细微的细节。”他微笑着说道，这暴露了他对神父们品味的同情。 “当然，信件可能只是部分确认；但事实证明必须是最直接的方式，即通过目击者。事实上，如果您有幸将您的信任托付给我，那么您最好让我选择要采取的措施。如果想要结果，就必须承认手段。”

‘If it is so...’ Alexey Alexandrovitch began, suddenly turning white; but at that moment the lawyer rose and again went to the door to speak to the intruding clerk.
“如果是这样的话……”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇开口说道，脸色突然变得苍白。但就在这时，律师站了起来，再次走到门口与闯入的职员说话。

‘Tell her we don’t haggle over fees!’ he said, and returned to Alexey Alexandrovitch.
“告诉她我们不要在费用问题上讨价还价！”他说完就回到阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇身边。

On his way back he caught unobserved another moth. ‘Nice state my rep curtains will be in by the summer!’ he thought, frowning.
在回来的路上，他又发现了一只飞蛾。 “太好了，我的代表窗帘到夏天就能恢复正常了！”他皱着眉头想道。

‘And so you were saying?...’ he said.
“你是说？……”他说。

‘I will communicate my decision to you by letter,’ said Alexey Alexandrovitch, getting up, and he clutched at the table. After standing a moment in silence, he said: ‘From your words I may consequently conclude that a divorce may be obtained? I would ask you to let me know what are your terms.’
“我会写信告诉你我的决定，”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇站起来说道，他抓住了桌子。沉默片刻后，他说道：“从你的话来看，我可以断定，可以离婚吗？”我想请你告诉我你的条件是什么。

‘It may be obtained if you give me complete liberty of action,’ said the lawyer, not answering his question. ‘When can I reckon on receiving information from you?’ he asked, moving towards the door, his eyes and his varnished boots shining.
“如果你给我完全的行动自由，就可以得到它，”律师说道，没有回答他的问题。 “我什么时候可以收到你的消息？”他一边问，一边朝门口走去，他的眼睛和漆过的靴子闪闪发光。

‘In a week’s time. Your answer as to whether you will undertake to conduct the case, and on what terms, you will be so good as to communicate to me.’
'在一个星期的时间内。关于您是否愿意处理此案以及以何种条件处理此案，请您回答并与我沟通。

‘Very good.’
'非常好。'

The lawyer bowed respectfully, let his client out of the door, and, left alone, gave himself up to his sense of amusement. He felt so mirthful that, contrary to his rules, he made a reduction in his terms to the haggling lady, and gave up catching moths, finally deciding that next winter he must have the furniture covered with velvet, like Sigonin’s.
律师恭敬地鞠了一躬，让他的委托人出了门，然后独自一人，沉浸在自己的娱乐之中。他高兴极了，违背了自己的规矩，对讨价还价的女士降低了条件，也不再去捉飞蛾，最后决定明年冬天他必须让家具像西戈宁的那样铺上天鹅绒。

Chapter 6
第6章

Alexey Alexandrovitch had gained a brilliant victory at the sitting of the Commission of the 17th of August, but in the sequel this victory cut the ground from under his feet. The new commission for the inquiry into the condition of the native tribes in all its branches had been formed and despatched to its destination with an unusual speed and energy inspired by Alexey Alexandrovitch. Within three months a report was presented. The condition of the native tribes was investigated in its political, administrative, economic, ethnographic, material, and religious aspects. To all these questions there were answers admirably stated, and answers admitting no shade of doubt, since they were not a product of human thought, always liable to error, but were all the product of official activity. The answers were all based on official data furnished by governors and heads of churches, and founded on the reports of district magistrates and ecclesiastical superintendents, founded in their turn on the reports of parochial overseers and parish priests; and so all of these answers were unhesitating and certain. All such questions as, for instance, of the cause of failure of crops, of the adherence of certain tribes to their ancient beliefs, etc.— questions which, but for the convenient intervention of the official machine, are not, and cannot be solved for ages— received full, unhesitating solution. And this solution was in favor of Alexey Alexandrovitch’s contention. But Stremov, who had felt stung to the quick at the last sitting, had, on the reception of the commission’s report, resorted to tactics which Alexey Alexandrovitch had not anticipated. Stremov, carrying with him several members, went over to Alexey Alexandrovitch’s side, and not contenting himself with warmly defending the measure proposed by Karenin, proposed other more extreme measures in the same direction. These measures, still further exaggerated in opposition to what was Alexey Alexandrovitch’s fundamental idea, were passed by the commission, and then the aim of Stremov’s tactics became apparent. Carried to an extreme, the measures seemed at once to be so absurd that the highest authorities, and public opinion, and intellectual ladies, and the newspapers, all at the same time fell foul of them, expressing their indignation both with the measures and their nominal father, Alexey Alexandrovitch. Stremov drew back, affecting to have blindly followed Karenin, and to be astounded and distressed at what had been done. This meant the defeat of Alexey Alexandrovitch. But in spite of failing health, in spite of his domestic griefs, he did not give in. There was a split in the commission. Some members, with Stremov at their head, justified their mistake on the ground that they had put faith in the commission of revision, instituted by Alexey Alexandrovitch, and maintained that the report of the commission was rubbish, and simply so much waste paper. Alexey Alexandrovitch, with a following of those who saw the danger of so revolutionary an attitude to official documents, persisted in upholding the statements obtained by the revising commission. In consequence of this, in the higher spheres, and even in society, all was chaos, and although everyone was interested, no one could tell whether the native tribes really were becoming impoverished and ruined, or whether they were in a flourishing condition. The position of Alexey Alexandrovitch, owing to this, and partly owing to the contempt lavished on him for his wife’s infidelity, became very precarious. And in this position he took an important resolution. To the astonishment of the commission, he announced that he should ask permission to go himself to investigate the question on the spot. And having obtained permission, Alexey Alexandrovitch prepared to set off to these remote provinces.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇在 8 月 17 日的委员会会议上取得了辉煌的胜利，但在接下来的这场胜利中，他的立场却被打破了。在阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇的启发下，负责调查所有分支的土著部落状况的新委员会已经成立，并以不同寻常的速度和精力派往目的地。三个月内提交了一份报告。对土著部落的状况进行了政治、行政、经济、民族志、物质和宗教方面的调查。对于所有这些问题，都有令人钦佩的答案，而且答案不容置疑，因为它们不是人类思想的产物，总是容易出错，而是所有官方活动的产物。答案全部基于州长和教会领袖提供的官方数据，并建立在地区治安法官和教会负责人的报告之上，进而建立在教区监督和教区神父的报告之上；所以所有这些答案都是毫不犹豫和确定的。所有这些问题，例如庄稼歉收的原因、某些部落对他们古老信仰的坚持等等——如果没有官方机器的方便干预，这些问题都不会也无法得到解决多年来——得到了完整、毫不犹豫的解决方案。这个解决方案有利于阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇的论点。但斯特列莫夫在最后一次会议上感到被刺痛，在收到委员会的报告后，采取了阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇没有预料到的策略。 斯特列莫夫带着几名成员走到阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇一边，他并不满足于热烈捍卫卡列宁提出的措施，还提出了同一方向的其他更极端的措施。这些措施进一步夸大了阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇的基本思想，并获得了委员会的通过，然后斯特列莫夫策略的目标就变得显而易见了。推到极端，这些措施一下子就显得荒唐至极，以至于最高当局、舆论、知识分子、报纸都同时发声，对这些措施和他们的做法表示愤慨。名义上的父亲，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇。斯特列莫夫退后一步，假装盲目地跟随了卡列宁，并对所做的事情感到震惊和痛苦。这意味着阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇的失败。但尽管健康状况每况愈下，尽管他的家庭充满悲伤，但他并没有屈服。委员会中出现了分歧。以斯特列莫夫为首的一些成员为自己的错误辩护，理由是他们相信阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇设立的修订委员会，并坚称该委员会的报告是垃圾，简直就是废纸。阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇（Alexey Alexandrovitch）和他的追随者看到了对官方文件采取如此革命性态度的危险，因此坚持维护修订委员会获得的声明。如此一来，高层乃至社会上，一片混乱，虽然大家都感兴趣，但谁也说不清，土著部落到底是在走向贫困、走向灭亡，还是在走向繁荣。 由于这一点，部分是由于他妻子的不忠而对他的蔑视，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇的地位变得非常不稳定。在这个职位上，他做出了一项重要的决定。令委员会惊讶的是，他宣布他应该请求允许亲自去现场调查这个问题。获得许可后，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇准备出发前往这些偏远的省份。

Alexey Alexandrovitch’s departure made a great sensation, the more so as just before he started he officially returned the posting-fares allowed him for twelve horses, to drive to his destination.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇的离开引起了巨大的轰动，更重要的是，就在他出发之前，他正式归还了允许他乘坐十二匹马前往目的地的邮资。

‘I think it very noble,’ Betsy said about this to the Princess Myakaya. ‘Why take money for posting-horses when everyone knows that there are railways everywhere now?’
“我认为这非常高尚，”贝特西对米卡亚公主谈到这件事时说道。 “既然大家都知道现在到处都有铁路，为什么还要花钱寄马呢？”

But Princess Myakaya did not agree, and the Princess Tverskaya’s opinion annoyed her indeed.
但米卡娅公主并不同意，而特维尔斯卡娅公主的意见确实让她很恼火。

‘It’s all very well for you to talk,’ said she, ‘when you have I don’t know how many millions; but I am very glad when my husband goes on a revising tour in the summer. It’s very good for him and pleasant traveling about, and it’s a settled arrangement for me to keep a carriage and coachman on the money.’
“你能说话就很好了，”她说，“等你有几百万的时候，我不知道；但我很高兴我的丈夫在夏天进行巡演。这对他来说非常好，旅行也很愉快，而且我用钱养一辆马车和车夫也是一种既定的安排。

On his way to the remote provinces Alexey Alexandrovitch stopped for three days at Moscow.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇在前往偏远省份的途中在莫斯科停留了三天。

The day after his arrival he was driving back from calling on the governor-general. At the crossroads by Gazetoy Place, where there are always crowds of carriages and sledges, Alexey Alexandrovitch suddenly heard his name called out in such a loud and cheerful voice that he could not help looking round. At the corner of the pavement, in a short, stylish overcoat and a low-crowned fashionable hat, jauntily askew, with a smile that showed a gleam of white teeth and red lips, stood Stepan Arkadyevitch, radiant, young, and beaming. He called him vigorously and urgently, and insisted on his stopping. He had one arm on the window of a carriage that was stopping at the corner, and out of the window were thrust the heads of a lady in a velvet hat, and two children. Stepan Arkadyevitch was smiling and beckoning to his brother-in-law. The lady smiled a kindly smile too, and she too waved her hand to Alexey Alexandrovitch. It was Dolly with her children.
到达后的第二天，他拜访了总督，开车回来。在盖兹托伊广场的十字路口，那里总是挤满了马车和雪橇，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇突然听到他的名字如此响亮而欢快地叫着，他不禁环顾四周。人行道的拐角处站着斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇，他穿着一件时髦的短大衣，戴着一顶时髦的低冠帽子，得意地歪着，微笑着露出洁白的牙齿和红润的嘴唇，斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇容光焕发，年轻而喜气洋洋。他用力又急切地叫住他，坚持要他停下来。他的一只手臂搭在停在街角的一辆马车的车窗上，车窗外探出一位戴着天鹅绒帽子的女士和两个孩子的头。斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇微笑着向他的姐夫招手。那位女士也露出了友善的微笑，她也向阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇挥了挥手。那是多莉和她的孩子们。

Alexey Alexandrovitch did not want to see anyone in Moscow, and least of all his wife’s brother. He raised his hat and would have driven on, but Stepan Arkadyevitch told his coachman to stop, and ran across the snow to him.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇不想见莫斯科的任何人，尤其是他妻子的兄弟。他举起帽子准备继续前行，但斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇让车夫停下来，然后穿过雪地跑向他。

‘Well, what a shame not to have let us know! Been here long? I was at Dussot’s yesterday and saw ‘Karenin’ on the visitors’ list, but it never entered my head that it was you,’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch, sticking his head in at the window of the carriage, ‘or I should have looked you up. I am glad to see you!’ he said, knocking one foot against the other to shake the snow off. ‘What a shame of you not to let us know!’ he repeated.
‘好吧，没有让我们知道真是太遗憾了！来这里很久了？昨天我在杜索那里，在访客名单上看到了‘卡列宁’，但我从来没有想到是你，”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇把头伸进车厢的窗户说，“否则我应该看看你。向上。我很高兴见到你！”他一边说，一边用一只脚敲打另一只脚，把雪抖掉。 “你不让我们知道真是太遗憾了！”他重复道。

‘I had no time; I am very busy,’ Alexey Alexandrovitch responded dryly.
“我没有时间；我很忙。”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇干巴巴地回答道。

‘Come to my wife, she does so want to see you.’
“到我妻子那里来，她很想见你。”

Alexey Alexandrovitch unfolded the rug in which his frozen feet were wrapped, and getting out of his carriage made his way over the snow to Darya Alexandrovna.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇展开裹着冻脚的地毯，下了马车，踏着雪朝达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜走去。

‘Why, Alexey Alexandrovitch, what are you cutting us like this for?’ said Dolly, smiling.
“怎么了，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇，你为什么要把我们剪成这样？”多莉微笑着说道。

‘I was very busy. Delighted to see you!’ he said in a tone clearly indicating that he was annoyed by it. ‘How are you?’
'我很忙。很高兴见到你！”他的语气显然表明他对此很恼火。 '你好吗？'

‘Tell me, how is my darling Anna?’
“告诉我，我亲爱的安娜怎么样？”

Alexey Alexandrovitch mumbled something and would have gone on. But Stepan Arkadyevitch stopped him.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇咕哝了几句，就想继续说下去。但斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇阻止了他。

‘I tell you what we’ll do tomorrow. Dolly, ask him to dinner. We’ll ask Koznishev and Pestsov, so as to entertain him with our Moscow celebrities.’
“我告诉你我们明天要做什么。多莉，请他吃饭。我们会请科兹尼舍夫和佩斯佐夫，以便与我们莫斯科的名人一起招待他。”

‘Yes, please, do come,’ said Dolly; ‘we will expect you at five, or six o’clock, if you like. How is my darling Anna? How long...’
“是的，请一定来吧，”多莉说。 “如果您愿意的话，我们会在五点或六点等您。”我亲爱的安娜怎么样了？多久...'

‘She is quite well,’ Alexey Alexandrovitch mumbled, frowning. ‘Delighted!’ and he moved away towards his carriage.
“她很好，”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇皱着眉头咕哝道。 “很高兴！”然后他朝他的马车走去。

‘You will come?’ Dolly called after him.
“你会来吗？”多莉在他身后喊道。

Alexey Alexandrovitch said something which Dolly could not catch in the noise of the moving carriages.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇说了些什么，多莉在车厢行驶的噪音中听不清。

‘I shall come round tomorrow!’ Stepan Arkadyevitch shouted to him.
“我明天就来！”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇对他喊道。

Alexey Alexandrovitch got into his carriage, and buried himself in it so as neither to see nor be seen.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇钻进马车，把自己埋在车里，既不看见也不被看见。

‘Queer fish!’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch to his wife, and glancing at his watch, he made a motion of his hand before his face, indicating a caress to his wife and children, and walked jauntily along the pavement.
“奇怪的鱼！”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇对他的妻子说，他看了一眼手表，用手在脸前做了个动作，示意爱抚他的妻子和孩子，然后兴高采烈地沿着人行道走去。

‘Stiva! Stiva!’ Dolly called, reddening.
‘斯蒂瓦！斯蒂瓦！”多莉红着脸喊道。

He turned round.
他转过身来。

‘I must get coats, you know, for Grisha and Tanya. Give me the money.’
“你知道，我必须给格里沙和坦尼娅买外套。给我钱。

‘Never mind; you tell them I’ll pay the bill!’ and he vanished, nodding genially to an acquaintance who drove by.
'没关系;你告诉他们我来付帐！”然后他就消失了，对开车经过的一个熟人和蔼地点点头。

Chapter 7
第7章

The next day was Sunday. Stepan Arkadyevitch went to the Grand Theater to a rehearsal of the ballet, and gave Masha Tchibisova, a pretty dancing-girl whom he had just taken under his protection, the coral necklace he had promised her the evening before, and behind the scenes in the dim daylight of the theater, managed to kiss her pretty little face, radiant over her present. Besides the gift of the necklace he wanted to arrange with her about meeting after the ballet. After explaining that he could not come at the beginning of the ballet, he promised he would come for the last act and take her to supper. From the theater Stepan Arkadyevitch drove to Ohotny Row, selected himself the fish and asparagus for dinner, and by twelve o’clock was at Dussot’s, where he had to see three people, luckily all staying at the same hotel: Levin, who had recently come back from abroad and was staying there; the new head of his department, who had just been promoted to that position, and had come on a tour of revision to Moscow; and his brother-in-law, Karenin, whom he must see, so as to be sure of bringing him to dinner.
第二天是星期日。斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇去大剧院排练芭蕾舞，并把前一天晚上许诺给她的珊瑚项链送给了他刚刚保护的漂亮舞女玛莎·奇比索娃，以及幕后花絮。剧院昏暗的日光下，我成功地亲吻了她美丽的小脸，在她的礼物上容光焕发。除了项链礼物外，他还想和她安排芭蕾舞结束后的见面。在解释了他不能在芭蕾舞剧开始时出现后，他承诺他会在最后一幕来，并带她去吃晚饭。斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇从剧院开车到奥霍特尼街，给自己选了鱼和芦笋作为晚餐，十二点钟就到了杜索，在那里他见到了三个人，幸运的是他们都住在同一家旅馆：莱文，他最近从国外回来并住在那里；他的部门的新任主管刚刚升任该职位，并前往莫斯科进行了视察；还有他的姐夫卡列宁，他必须去见他，以便确保带他去吃晚饭。

Stepan Arkadyevitch liked dining, but still better he liked to give a dinner, small, but very choice, both as regards the food and drink and as regards the selection of guests. He particularly liked the program of that day’s dinner. There would be fresh perch, asparagus, and la piece de resistance— first-rate, but quite plain, roast beef, and wines to suit: so much for the eating and drinking. Kitty and Levin would be of the party, and that this might not be obtrusively evident, there would be a girl cousin too, and young Shtcherbatsky, and la piece de resistance among the guests—Sergey Koznishev and Alexey Alexandrovitch. Sergey Ivanovitch was a Moscow man, and a philosopher; Alexey Alexandrovitch a Petersburger, and a practical politician. He was asking, too, the well-known eccentric enthusiast, Pestsov, a liberal, a great talker, a musician, an historian, and the most delightfully youthful person of fifty, who would be a sauce or garnish for Koznishev and Karenin. He would provoke them and set them off.
斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇喜欢用餐，但他更喜欢举办晚宴，规模虽小，但选择非常多，无论是在食物和饮料方面，还是在选择客人方面。他特别喜欢那天晚餐的节目。会有新鲜的鲈鱼、芦笋和拉片——一流的，但相当普通的烤牛肉，还有与之相配的葡萄酒：吃喝就这么多了。基蒂和莱文会参加聚会，这可能不会太明显，还会有一个表妹，还有年轻的谢尔巴茨基，以及客人中的抵抗者谢尔盖·科兹尼舍夫和阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇。谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇是莫斯科人，也是一位哲学家。阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇是彼得堡人，也是一位务实的政治家。他也在问著名的古怪狂热分子佩斯佐夫，他是一位自由主义者、一位健谈者、一位音乐家、一位历史学家，也是一位五十岁最令人愉快的年轻人，他将成为科兹尼舍夫和卡列宁的调味品或配菜。他会激怒他们，引爆他们。

The second installment for the forest had been received from the merchant and was not yet exhausted; Dolly had been very amiable and goodhumored of late, and the idea of the dinner pleased Stepan Arkadyevitch from every point of view. He was in the most light-hearted mood. There were two circumstances a little unpleasant, but these two circumstances were drowned in the sea of good-humored gaiety which flooded the soul of Stepan Arkadyevitch. These two circumstances were: first, that on meeting Alexey Alexandrovitch the day before in the street he had noticed that he was cold and reserved with him, and putting the expression of Alexey Alexandrovitch’s face and the fact that he had not come to see them or let them know of his arrival with the rumors he had heard about Anna and Vronsky, Stepan Arkadyevitch guessed that something was wrong between the husband and wife.
商人的第二笔森林付款已经收到，而且还没有用完；多莉最近表现得非常和蔼可亲，心情也很好，从各个角度来看，晚餐的想法都让斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇感到高兴。他的心情是最轻松的。有两种情况有点不愉快，但这两种情况都淹没在淹没了斯捷潘·阿尔卡季维奇灵魂的愉快的欢乐海洋中。这两种情况是：第一，前一天在街上遇见阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇时，他注意到他对他态度冷淡和矜持，并把阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇的表情和他没有来看他们的事实放在一起。斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇（Stepan Arkadyevitch）告诉他们他的到来以及他听说过的有关安娜和渥伦斯基（Vronsky）的谣言，他猜测这对夫妻之间出了问题。

That was one disagreeable thing. The other slightly disagreeable fact was that the new head of his department, like all new heads, had the reputation already of a terrible person, who got up at six o’clock in the morning, worked like a horse, and insisted on his subordinates working in the same way. Moreover, this new head had the further reputation of being a bear in his manners, and was, according to all reports, a man of a class in all respects the opposite of that to which his predecessor had belonged, and to which Stepan Arkadyevitch had hitherto belonged himself. On the previous day Stepan Arkadyevitch had appeared at the office in a uniform, and the new chief had been very affable and had talked to him as to an acquaintance. Consequently Stepan Arkadyevitch deemed it his duty to call upon him in his non-official dress. The thought that the new chief might not tender him a warm reception was the other unpleasant thing. But Stepan Arkadyevitch instinctively felt that everything would come round all right. ‘They’re all people, all men, like us poor sinners; why be nasty and quarrelsome?’ he thought as he went into the hotel.
这是一件令人不愉快的事情。另一个有点令人不快的事实是，他所在部门的新领导和所有新领导一样，已经有了一个可怕的人的名声，他早上六点起床，像马一样工作，对下属坚持要求。以同样的方式工作。此外，这位新领导还因举止粗暴而闻名，据所有报道称，他在各方面都是一个与他的前任、斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇所属于的阶级相反的人。迄今为止属于他自己。前一天，斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇穿着制服出现在办公室，新上任的主管非常和蔼可亲，像熟人一样与他交谈。因此，斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇认为他有责任穿着非正式服装拜访他。想到新任酋长可能不会热情接待他，这是另一件令人不快的事情。但斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇本能地觉得一切都会好起来的。 “他们都是人，都是男人，就像我们这些可怜的罪人一样； “为什么要变得肮脏和争吵呢？”他一边走进酒店一边想。

‘Good-day, Vassily,’ he said, walking into the corridor with his hat cocked on one side, and addressing a footman he knew; ‘why, you’ve let your whiskers grow! Levin, number seven, eh? Take me up, please. And find out whether Count Anitchkin’ (this was the new head) ‘is receiving.’
“再见，瓦西里，”他走进走廊，帽子歪在一边，对一位他认识的男仆说。 ‘哎呀，你的胡须都长起来了！莱文，七号，是吗？请带我上去。并查明阿尼奇金伯爵（这是新任首领）是否正在接收。

‘Yes, sir,’ Vassily responded, smiling. ‘You’ve not been to see us for a long while.’
“是的，先生，”瓦西里微笑着回答。 “你已经很久没有来看我们了。”

‘I was here yesterday, but at the other entrance. Is this number seven?’
“我昨天来过这里，但是在另一个入口。这是七号吗？

Levin was standing with a peasant from Tver in the middle of the room, measuring a fresh bearskin, when Stepan Arkadyevitch went in.
当斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇走进来时，列文正和一位来自特维尔的农民站在房间中央，量着一张新鲜的熊皮。

‘What! you killed him?’ cried Stepan Arkadyevitch. ‘Well done! A she-bear? How are you, Arhip!’
'什么！ “你杀了他？”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇喊道。 '做得好！母熊？你好吗，阿尔希普！

He shook hands with the peasant and sat down on the edge of a chair, without taking off his coat and hat.
他和农民握了握手，然后坐在椅子边上，没有脱掉外套和帽子。

‘Come, take off your coat and stay a little,’ said Levin, taking his hat.
“来吧，脱掉外套，呆一会儿，”莱文说着，拿起帽子。

‘No, I haven’t time; I’ve only looked in for a tiny second,’ answered Stepan Arkadyevitch. He threw open his coat, but afterwards did take it off, and sat on for a whole hour, talking to Levin about hunting and the most intimate subjects.
“不，我没有时间；”我只看了一小会儿，”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇回答道。他打开外套，但后来又把它脱下来，坐了整整一个小时，和莱文谈论狩猎和最亲密的话题。

‘Come, tell me, please, what you did abroad? Where have you been?’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch, when the peasant had gone.
“来吧，请告诉我，你在国外做了什么？ “你去哪儿了？”农民走后，斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇说道。

‘Oh, I stayed in Germany, in Prussia, in France, and in England— not in the capitals, but in the manufacturing towns, and saw a great deal that was new to me. And I’m glad I went.’
“哦，我留在了德国、普鲁士、法国和英国——不是在首都，而是在制造业城镇，看到了很多对我来说是新的东西。我很高兴我去了。

‘Yes, I knew your idea of the solution of the labor question.’
“是的，我知道你对解决劳工问题的想法。”

‘Not a bit: in Russia there can be no labor question. In Russia the question is that of the relation of the working people to the land; though the question exists there too—but there it’s a matter of repairing what’s been ruined, while with us...’
“一点也不：在俄罗斯不存在劳工问题。在俄罗斯，问题是劳动人民与土地的关系。尽管问题也存在于此——但问题是修复被毁坏的东西，而我们……”

Stepan Arkadyevitch listened attentively to Levin.
斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇聚精会神地听列文讲话。

‘Yes, yes!’ he said, ‘it’s very possible you’re right. But I’m glad you’re in good spirits, and are hunting bears, and working, and interested. Shtcherbatsky told me another story—he met you—that you were in such a depressed state, talking of nothing but death....’
“是的，是的！”他说，“你很可能是对的。”但我很高兴你精神饱满，对猎熊、工作、感兴趣。谢尔巴茨基给我讲了另一个故事——他遇见了你——你处于如此沮丧的状态，除了死亡什么也不说……”

‘Well, what of it? I’ve not given up thinking of death,’ said Levin. ‘It’s true that it’s high time I was dead; and that all this is nonsense. It’s the truth I’m telling you. I do value my idea and my work awfully; but in reality only consider this: all this world of ours is nothing but a speck of mildew, which has grown up on a tiny planet. And for us to suppose we can have something great—ideas, work—it’s all dust and ashes.’
‘嗯，那又怎么样？我还没有放弃对死亡的思考，”莱文说。 “确实，现在是我死的时候了；”而这一切都是无稽之谈。我告诉你的是事实。我确实非常重视我的想法和工作；但实际上只要想一想：我们这个世界只不过是一颗小小的霉菌，生长在一个小小的星球上。对于我们来说，假设我们可以拥有一些伟大的东西——想法、工作——那都是尘土和灰烬。

‘But all that’s as old as the hills, my boy!’
“但是这一切都和山一样古老，我的孩子！”

‘It is old; but do you know, when you grasp this fully, then somehow everything becomes of no consequence. When you understand that you will die tomorrow, if not today, and nothing will be left, then everything is so unimportant! And I consider my idea very important, but it turns out really to be as unimportant too, even if it were carried out, as doing for that bear. So one goes on living, amusing oneself with hunting, with work—anything so as not to think of death!’
'它是旧的;但你知道吗，当你完全掌握了这一点，那么一切都会变得毫无意义。当你明白，如果不是今天，明天你就会死，什么也不会留下，那么一切都变得那么不重要了！我认为我的想法非常重要，但事实证明，即使它被实施了，它也真的和为那只熊所做的一样不重要。因此，人们要继续生活，以打猎、工作自娱自乐——任何事情都不要想到死亡！”

Stepan Arkadyevitch smiled a subtle affectionate smile as he listened to Levin.
斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇听着列文的话，露出一丝微妙而深情的微笑。

‘Well, of course! Here you’ve come round to my point. Do you remember you attacked me for seeking enjoyment in life? Don’t be so severe, O moralist!’
'嗯，当然！说到这里，你终于明白我的观点了。你还记得你因为我寻求生活乐趣而攻击我吗？别那么严厉，道德家啊！”

‘No; all the same, what’s fine in life is...’ Levin hesitated— ‘oh, I don’t know. All I know is that we shall soon be dead.’
'不;尽管如此，生活中美好的事情是……”莱文犹豫着——“哦，我不知道。我只知道我们很快就会死去。

‘Why so soon?’
“为什么这么快？”

‘And do you know, there’s less charm in life, when one thinks of death, but there’s more peace.’
“你知道吗，当一个人想到死亡时，生活的魅力就会减少，但会多一些平静。”

‘On the contrary, the finish is always the best. But I must be going,’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch, getting up for the tenth time.
“相反，最终的结果总是最好的。但我必须走了，”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季维奇第十次站起来说道。

‘Oh, no, stay a bit!’ said Levin, keeping him. ‘Now, when shall we see each other again? I’m going tomorrow.’
“哦，不，再呆一会儿！”莱文留住了他。 ‘现在，我们什么时候才能再次见面？我明天就去。

‘I’m a nice person! Why, that’s just what I came for! You simply must come to dinner with us today. Your brother’s coming, and Karenin, my brother-in-law.’
‘我是一个好人！为什么，这就是我来的目的！你今天一定要来和我们一起吃晚饭。你哥哥来了，还有我姐夫卡列宁。”

‘You don’t mean to say he’s here?’ said Levin, and he wanted to inquire about Kitty. He had heard at the beginning of the winter that she was at Petersburg with her sister, the wife of the diplomat, and he did not know whether she had come back or not; but he changed his mind and did not ask. ‘Whether she’s coming or not, I don’t care,’ he said to himself.
“你不是说他在这里吗？”莱文说道，他想打听一下基蒂的情况。初冬时他就听说她和她的妹妹、外交官的妻子在彼得堡，不知道她是否回来了；但他改变了主意，没有再问。 “不管她来不来，我都不在乎，”他对自己说。

‘So you’ll come?’
“那么你会来吗？”

‘Of course.’
'当然。'

‘At five o’clock, then, and not evening dress.’
“那么，五点钟，不要穿晚礼服。”

And Stepan Arkadyevitch got up and went down below to the new head of his department. Instinct had not misled Stepan Arkadyevitch. The terrible new head turned out to be an extremely amenable person, and Stepan Arkadyevitch lunched with him and stayed on, so that it was four o’clock before he got to Alexey Alexandrovitch.
斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇起身，下楼去见他部门的新任主管。本能并没有误导斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇。事实证明，这个可怕的新领导是一个非常顺从的人，斯捷潘·阿尔卡季维奇和他共进午餐并留下来，所以在他到达阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇之前已经是四点了。

Chapter 8
第8章

Alexey Alexandrovitch, on coming back from church service, had spent the whole morning indoors. He had two pieces of business before him that morning; first, to receive and send on a deputation from the native tribes which was on its way to Petersburg, and now at Moscow; secondly, to write the promised letter to the lawyer. The deputation, though it had been summoned at Alexey Alexandrovitch’s instigation, was not without its discomforting and even dangerous aspect, and he was glad he had found it in Moscow. The members of this deputation had not the slightest conception of their duty and the part they were to play. They naively believed that it was their business to lay before the commission their needs and the actual condition of things, and to ask assistance of the government, and utterly failed to grasp that some of their statements and requests supported the contention of the enemy’s side, and so spoiled the whole business. Alexey Alexandrovitch was busily engaged with them for a long while, drew up a program for them from which they were not to depart, and on dismissing them wrote a letter to Petersburg for the guidance of the deputation. He had his chief support in this affair in the Countess Lidia Ivanovna. She was a specialist in the matter of deputations, and no one knew better than she how to manage them, and put them in the way they should go. Having completed this task, Alexey Alexandrovitch wrote the letter to the lawyer. Without the slightest hesitation he gave him permission to act as he might judge best. In the letter he enclosed three of Vronsky’s notes to Anna, which were in the portfolio he had taken away.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇从教堂礼拜回来后，整个早上都在室内度过。那天早上他有两件事要做：首先，接待和派出一个来自当地部落的代表团，该代表团正在前往彼得堡的途中，现在正在莫斯科；其次，给律师写承诺信。尽管代表团是在阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇的怂恿下召集的，但也并非没有令人不安甚至危险的一面，他很高兴在莫斯科找到了代表团。这个代表团的成员对他们的职责和他们要扮演的角色没有丝毫概念。他们天真地认为，他们应该向委员会提出自己的需要和实际情况，并请求政府的援助，却完全没有意识到他们的一些言论和要求支持了敌方的论点，就这样破坏了整个生意。阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇忙于与他们接触了很长一段时间，为他们制定了一个他们不会离开的计划，并在解散他们后写了一封信给彼得堡，请求代表团的指导。在这件事上，他得到了莉迪亚·伊万诺夫娜伯爵夫人的主要支持。她是代表团事务方面的专家，没有人比她更懂得如何管理代表团，如何让他们走上应有的道路。完成这项任务后，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇给律师写了这封信。他毫不犹豫地允许他按照他认为最好的方式行事。他在信中附上了渥伦斯基写给安娜的三张笔记，这些笔记都在他拿走的文件夹里。

Since Alexey Alexandrovitch had left home with the intention of not returning to his family again, and since he had been at the lawyer’s and had spoken, though only to one man, of his intention, since especially he had translated the matter from the world of real life to the world of ink and paper, he had grown more and more used to his own intention, and by now distinctly perceived the feasibility of its execution.
自从阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇离开家，打算不再回到家人身边，自从他去了律师那里，尽管只对一个人说了他的意图，尤其是因为他从世界上翻译了这件事，现实生活中的水墨世界，他已经越来越习惯了自己的意图，也清晰地意识到了执行的可行性。

He was sealing the envelope to the lawyer, when he heard the loud tones of Stepan Arkadyevitch’s voice. Stepan Arkadyevitch was disputing with Alexey Alexandrovitch’s servant, and insisting on being announced.
他正在给律师封好信封，这时他听到了斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇大声的声音。斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇正在与阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇的仆人发生争执，并坚持要宣布此事。

‘No matter,’ thought Alexey Alexandrovitch, ‘so much the better. I will inform him at once of my position in regard to his sister, and explain why it is I can’t dine with him.’
“没关系，”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇想，“这样就更好了。”我会立即告诉他我对他妹妹的立场，并解释为什么我不能和他一起吃饭。

‘Come in!’ he said aloud, collecting his papers, and putting them in the blotting-paper.
“进来！”他大声说道，收起自己的论文，把它们放在吸墨纸上。

‘There, you see, you’re talking nonsense, and he’s at home!’ responded Stepan Arkadyevitch’s voice, addressing the servant, who had refused to let him in, and taking off his coat as he went, Oblonsky walked into the room. ‘Well, I’m awfully glad I’ve found you! So I hope...’ Stepan Arkadyevitch began cheerfully.
“你看，你在胡说八道，而他在家里！”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇的声音对拒绝让他进来的仆人回答道，奥勃朗斯基边走边脱掉外套，走进了房间。 ‘嗯，我很高兴找到你！所以我希望……”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇高兴地说道。

‘I cannot come,’ Alexey Alexandrovitch said coldly, standing and not asking his visitor to sit down.
“我不能来，”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇冷冷地说，他站着，没有请客人坐下。

Alexey Alexandrovitch had thought to pass at once into those frigid relations in which he ought to stand with the brother of a wife against whom he was beginning a suit for divorce. But he had not taken into account the ocean of kindliness brimming over in the heart of Stepan Arkadyevitch.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇想立即进入那种冷淡的关系，在这种关系中，他应该与他正在向他提起离婚诉讼的妻子的兄弟站在一起。但他没有考虑到斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇心中洋溢着仁慈的海洋。

Stepan Arkadyevitch opened wide his clear, shining eyes.
斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇睁大了他那双清澈明亮的眼睛。

‘Why can’t you? What do you mean?’ he asked in perplexity, speaking in French. ‘Oh, but it’s a promise. And we’re all counting on you.’
‘为什么你不能？你是什​​么意思？”他用法语困惑地问道。 ‘哦，但这是一个承诺。我们都指望你。

‘I want to tell you that I can’t dine at your house, because the terms of relationship which have existed between us must cease.’
“我想告诉你，我不能在你家吃饭，因为我们之间存在的关系条款必须终止。”

‘How? How do you mean? What for?’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch with a smile.
'如何？你是什​​么意思？干什么？”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇微笑着说道。

‘Because I am beginning an action for divorce against your sister, my wife. I ought to have...’
“因为我要开始与你的妹妹，我的妻子离婚。我应该……”

But, before Alexey Alexandrovitch had time to finish his sentence, Stepan Arkadyevitch was behaving not at all as he had expected. He groaned and sank into an armchair.
但是，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇还没来得及把话说完，斯捷潘·阿尔卡季维奇的表现就完全不像他预想的那样了。他呻吟了一声，坐进扶手椅里。

‘No, Alexey Alexandrovitch! What are you saying?’ cried Oblonsky, and his suffering was apparent in his face.
“不，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇！ “你在说什么？”奥布朗斯基大声喊道，脸上的痛苦显而易见。

‘It is so.’
“是这样的。”

‘Excuse me, I can’t, I can’t believe it!’
“对不起，我不能，我不敢相信！”

Alexey Alexandrovitch sat down, feeling that his words had not had the effect he anticipated, and that it would be unavoidable for him to explain his position, and that, whatever explanations he might make, his relations with his brother-in-law would remain unchanged.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇坐下来，觉得他的话没有达到他预期的效果，他不可避免地要解释他的立场，而且无论他做出什么解释，他与姐夫的关系都将保持不变。不变。

‘Yes, I am brought to the painful necessity of seeking a divorce,’ he said.
“是的，我不得不痛苦地寻求离婚，”他说。

‘I will say one thing, Alexey Alexandrovitch. I know you for an excellent, upright man; I know Anna—excuse me, I can’t change my opinion of her—for a good, an excellent woman; and so, excuse me, I cannot believe it. There is some misunderstanding,’ said he.
“我要说一件事，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇。我认识你是一个优秀、正直的人；我了解安娜——对不起，我无法改变我对她的看法——她是一个善良、优秀的女人；所以，对不起，我无法相信。这其中存在一些误会，”他说。

‘Oh, if it were merely a misunderstanding!...’
“哦，如果这只是一场误会就好了！……”

‘Pardon, I understand,’ interposed Stepan Arkadyevitch. ‘But of course.... One thing: you must not act in haste. You must not, you must not act in haste!’
“请原谅，我明白，”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇插话道。 “但是当然……有一件事：你不能仓促行事。你不能、你不能仓促行动！

‘I am not acting in haste,’ Alexey Alexandrovitch said coldly, ‘but one cannot ask advice of anyone in such a matter. I have quite made up my mind.’
“我并不仓促行事，”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇冷冷地说，“但在这种事情上，人们不能征求任何人的意见。我已经下定决心了。

‘This is awful!’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch. ‘I would do one thing, Alexey Alexandrovitch. I beseech you, do it!’ he said. ‘No action has yet been taken, if I understand rightly. Before you take advice, see my wife, talk to her. She loves Anna like a sister, she loves you, and she’s a wonderful woman. For God’s sake, talk to her! Do me that favor, I beseech you!’
“这太糟糕了！”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇说。 “我会做一件事，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇。我恳求你，做吧！”他说。 “如果我没理解错的话，目前还没有采取任何行动。在你接受建议之前，先见见我的妻子，和她谈谈。她像姐姐一样爱安娜，她爱你，她是一个很棒的女人。看在上帝的份上，跟她谈谈吧！请帮我一个忙，我恳求你！

Alexey Alexandrovitch pondered, and Stepan Arkadyevitch looked at him sympathetically, without interrupting his silence.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇沉思着，斯捷潘·阿尔卡季维奇同情地看着他，但没有打断他的沉默。

‘You will go to see her?’
“你会去看她吗？”

‘I don’t know. That was just why I have not been to see you. I imagine our relations must change.’
'我不知道。这就是我没有去看你的原因。我想我们的关系必须改变。

‘Why so? I don’t see that. Allow me to believe that apart from our connection you have for me, at least in part, the same friendly feeling I have always had for you...and sincere esteem,’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch, pressing his hand. ‘Even if your worst suppositions were correct, I don’t—and never would—take on myself to judge either side, and I see no reason why our relations should be affected. But now, do this, come and see my wife.’
'为什么这样？我不这么认为。请允许我相信，除了我们之间的联系之外，至少在某种程度上，你对我也有同样的友好感情……以及真诚的尊重。”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇握着他的手说道。 “即使你最坏的假设是正确的，我也不会——也永远不会——去评判任何一方，而且我认为我们的关系没有理由受到影响。但现在，就这样做，来看看我的妻子。”

‘Well, we look at the matter differently,’ said Alexey Alexandrovitch coldly. ‘However, we won’t discuss it.’
“好吧，我们对这件事的看法不同，”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇冷冷地说。 “但是，我们不会讨论它。”

‘No; why shouldn’t you come today to dine, anyway? My wife’s expecting you. Please, do come. And, above all, talk it over with her. She’s a wonderful woman. For God’s sake, on my knees, I implore you!’
'不;无论如何，你今天为什么不来吃饭呢？我妻子正在等你。请一定来吧。最重要的是，和她讨论一下。她是一个很棒的女人。看在上帝的份上，我跪下来恳求你！”

‘If you so much wish it, I will come,’ said Alexey Alexandrovitch, sighing.
“如果你这么希望的话，我会来的，”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇叹了口气说道。

And, anxious to change the conversation, he inquired about what interested them both—the new head of Stepan Arkadyevitch’s department, a man not yet old, who had suddenly been promoted to so high a position.
他急于改变话题，询问了他们俩都感兴趣的事情——斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇部门的新领导，一个还没有老的人，突然被提升到如此高的职位。

Alexey Alexandrovitch had previously felt no liking for Count Anitchkin, and had always differed from him in his opinions. But now, from a feeling readily comprehensible to officials—that hatred felt by one who has suffered a defeat in the service for one who has received a promotion, he could not endure him.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇以前并不喜欢阿尼奇金伯爵，而且一直与他意见不同。但现在，从一种官员们很容易理解的感觉——那种为官失利而升职的人所怀的仇恨，让他无法忍受。

‘Well, have you seen him?’ said Alexey Alexandrovitch with a malignant smile.
“那么，你见过他吗？”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇恶狠狠地笑着说道。

‘Of course; he was at our sitting yesterday. He seems to know his work capitally, and to be very energetic.’
'当然;昨天他出席了我们的会议。他似乎对自己的工作了如指掌，而且非常有活力。”

‘Yes, but what is his energy directed to?’ said Alexey Alexandrovitch. ‘Is he aiming at doing anything, or simply undoing what’s been done? It’s the great misfortune of our government—this paper administration, of which he’s a worthy representative.’
“是的，但是他的能量指向什么？”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇说。 ‘他的目的是做任何事，还是只是想毁掉已经做过的事？这是我们政府——这个纸质政府的巨大不幸，他是其中的一个值得代表。

‘Really, I don’t know what fault one could find with him. His policy I don’t know, but one thing—he’s a very nice fellow,’ answered Stepan Arkadyevitch. ‘I’ve just been seeing him, and he’s really a capital fellow. We lunched together, and I taught him how to make, you know that drink, wine and oranges. It’s so cooling. And it’s a wonder he didn’t know it. He liked it awfully. No, really he’s a capital fellow.’
“说实话，我不知道人们能从他身上找出什么毛病。我不知道他的政策，但有一件事——他是一个非常好的人。”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇回答道。 “我刚刚见过他，他确实是一个很棒的家伙。我们一起吃午饭，我教他如何制作，你知道的饮料，葡萄酒和橙子。太酷了。他不知道这真是个奇迹。他非常喜欢它。不，他确实是个资本家。

Stepan Arkadyevitch glanced at his watch.
斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇看了一眼手表。

‘Why, good heavens, it’s four already, and I’ve still to go to Dolgovushin’s! So please come round to dinner. You can’t imagine how you will grieve my wife and me.’
“哎呀，天啊，已经四点了，我还得去多尔戈武辛那儿！”所以请过来吃晚饭。你无法想象你会让我和我的妻子多么悲伤。”

The way in which Alexey Alexandrovitch saw his brother-in-law out was very different from the manner in which he had met him.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇送别姐夫的方式与他见到他的方式截然不同。

‘I’ve promised, and I’ll come,’ he answered wearily.
“我已经答应了，我会来的。”他疲倦地回答。

‘Believe me, I appreciate it, and I hope you won’t regret it,’ answered Stepan Arkadyevitch, smiling.
“相信我，我很感激，我希望你不会后悔，”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇微笑着回答。

And, putting on his coat as he went, he patted the footman on the head, chuckled, and went out.
说完，他边走边穿上外套，拍了拍仆人的头，咯咯地笑了一声，就出去了。

‘At five o’clock, and not evening dress, please,’ he shouted once more, turning at the door.
“五点钟，请不要穿晚礼服。”他转身向门口再次喊道。

Chapter 9
第9章

It was past five, and several guests had already arrived, before the host himself got home. He went in together with Sergey Ivanovitch Koznishev and Pestsov, who had reached the street door at the same moment. These were the two leading representatives of the Moscow intellectuals, as Oblonsky had called them. Both were men respected for their character and their intelligence. They respected each other, but were in complete and hopeless disagreement upon almost every subject, not because they belonged to opposite parties, but precisely because they were of the same party (their enemies refused to see any distinction between their views); but, in that party, each had his own special shade of opinion. And since no difference is less easily overcome than the difference of opinion about semi-abstract questions, they never agreed in any opinion, and had long, indeed, been accustomed to jeer without anger, each at the other’s incorrigible aberrations.
时间已经五点多了，还没等主人回到家，已经有好几位客人到了。他和谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇·科兹尼舍夫和佩斯佐夫一起进去，他们同时到达了临街门口。正如奥布隆斯基所说，他们是莫斯科知识分子的两位主要代表。两人都是因其品格和智慧而受到尊重的人。他们互相尊重，但几乎在每个问题上都存在完全的、无可救药的分歧，这不是因为他们属于对立的党派，而是因为他们属于同一党派（他们的敌人拒绝看到他们的观点有任何区别）；但是，在那个聚会上，每个人都有自己独特的意见。由于没有什么分歧比对半抽象问题的意见分歧更容易克服，所以他们在任何意见上都从来没有达成一致，而且事实上，长期以来，他们已经习惯于嘲笑对方的无可救药的失常行为，而不是愤怒。

They were just going in at the door, talking of the weather, when Stepan Arkadyevitch overtook them. In the drawing room there were already sitting Prince Alexander Dmitrievitch Shtcherbatsky, young Shtcherbatsky, Turovtsin, Kitty, and Karenin.
他们正要进门，谈论天气，斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇追上了他们。客厅里已经坐着亚历山大·德米特里耶维奇·谢尔巴茨基亲王、年轻的谢尔巴茨基、图罗夫钦、基蒂和卡列宁。

Stepan Arkadyevitch saw immediately that things were not going well in the drawing-room without him. Darya Alexandrovna, in her best gray silk gown, obviously worried about the children, who were to have their dinner by themselves in the nursery, and by her husband’s absence, was not equal to the task of making the party mix without him. All were sitting like so many priests’ wives on a visit (so the old prince expressed it), obviously wondering why they were there, and pumping up remarks simply to avoid being silent. Turovtsin—good, simple man—felt unmistakably a fish out of water, and the smile with which his thick lips greeted Stepan Arkadyevitch said, as plainly as words: ‘Well, old boy, you have popped me down in a learned set! A drinking party now, or the Chateau des Fleurs, would be more in my line!’ The old prince sat in silence, his bright little eyes watching Karenin from one side, and Stepan Arkadyevitch saw that he had already formed a phrase to sum up that politician of whom guests were invited to partake as though he were a sturgeon. Kitty was looking at the door, calling up all her energies to keep her from blushing at the entrance of Konstantin Levin. Young Shtcherbatsky, who had not been introduced to Karenin, was trying to look as though he were not in the least conscious of it. Karenin himself had followed the Petersburg fashion for a dinner with ladies and was wearing evening dress and a white tie. Stepan Arkadyevitch saw by his face that he had come simply to keep his promise, and was performing a disagreeable duty in being present at this gathering. He was indeed the person chiefly responsible for the chill benumbing all the guests before Stepan Arkadyevitch came in.
斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇立即看出，没有他，客厅里的事情就不顺利。达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜穿着她最好的灰色丝绸礼服，显然很担心孩子们，他们要自己在托儿所里吃晚饭，而她丈夫不在，她无法在没有他的情况下让聚会混在一起。所有人都像许多来访的牧师妻子一样坐着（老王子是这样表达的），显然想知道他们为什么在那里，并大肆议论只是为了避免保持沉默。图罗夫钦——一个善良、单纯的人——毫无疑问地感到如鱼得水，他厚厚的嘴唇向斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇打招呼时露出微笑，就像话一样清楚地说：“好吧，老伙计，你以一种博学的方式把我打倒了！”现在来一场酒会，或者花宫，更合我的胃口！”老王子默默地坐着，他那双明亮的小眼睛从一侧看着卡列宁，斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇看到他已经形成了一个总结性的短语。那位政客像一条鲟鱼一样被邀请来参加。凯蒂看着门口，用尽全身的力气才不至于在康斯坦丁·莱文的门口脸红。年轻的谢尔巴茨基没有被介绍给卡列宁，他试图表现得好像他根本没有意识到这一点。卡列宁本人也遵循彼得堡的时尚与女士们共进晚餐，穿着晚礼服，打着白色领带。斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇从他的表情看出，他只是为了履行诺言而来，出席这次聚会是在履行令人不快的职责。他确实是斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇进来之前所有客人都感到寒冷的罪魁祸首。

On entering the drawing room Stepan Arkadyevitch apologized, explaining that he had been detained by that prince, who was always the scapegoat for all his absences and unpunctualities, and in one moment he had made all the guests acquainted with each other, and, bringing together Alexey Alexandrovitch and Sergey Koznishev, started them on a discussion of the Russification of Poland, into which they immediately plunged with Pestsov. Slapping Turovtsin on the shoulder, he whispered something comic in his ear, and set him down by his wife and the old prince. Then he told Kitty she was looking very pretty that evening, and presented Shtcherbatsky to Karenin. In a moment he had so kneaded together the social dough that the drawing room became very lively, and there was a merry buzz of voices. Konstantin Levin was the only person who had not arrived. But this was so much the better, as going into the dining room, Stepan Arkadyevitch found to his horror that the port and sherry had been procured from Depre, and not from Levy, and, directing that the coachman should be sent off as speedily as possible to Levy’s, he was going back to the drawing room.
一进客厅，斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇就道歉了，解释说他被那位王子扣留了，这位王子总是为他缺席和不准时的行为承担责任，他一下子就让所有的客人都互相认识了，并且把他们聚集在一起。阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇和谢尔盖·科兹尼舍夫让他们开始讨论波兰的俄罗斯化，他们立即与佩斯佐夫一起投入其中。他拍拍图罗夫钦的肩膀，在他耳边低声说了些滑稽的话，然后把他放在妻子和老王子身边。然后他告诉基蒂那天晚上她看起来很漂亮，并向卡列宁介绍了谢尔巴茨基。刹那间，他把社交面团揉成了团团圆圆的样子，客厅里变得热闹起来，人声鼎沸。康斯坦丁·莱文是唯一没有到达的人。但这好多了，因为走进餐厅，斯捷潘·阿尔卡季维奇惊恐地发现，波特酒和雪利酒是从德普雷采购的，而不是从利维采购的，并且指示马车夫应该尽快被送走。可能是去利维家，他要回客厅。

In the dining room he was met by Konstantin Levin.
在餐厅里，康斯坦丁·莱文遇见了他。

‘I’m not late?’
“我没有迟到吗？”

‘You can never help being late!’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch, taking his arm.
“你总是忍不住要迟到的！”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇挽着他的胳膊说道。

‘Have you a lot of people? Who’s here?’ asked Levin, unable to help blushing, as he knocked the snow off his cap with his glove.
‘你们人很多吗？谁在这里？”莱文一边用手套拍掉帽子上的积雪，一边问道，不禁脸红了。

‘All our own set. Kitty’s here. Come along, I’ll introduce you to Karenin.’
‘都是我们自己的一套。基蒂来了。来吧，我给你介绍一下卡列宁。”

Stepan Arkadyevitch, for all his liberal views, was well aware that to meet Karenin was sure to be felt a flattering distinction, and so treated his best friends to this honor. But at that instant Konstantin Levin was not in a condition to feel all the gratification of making such an acquaintance. He had not seen Kitty since that memorable evening when he met Vronsky, not counting, that is, the moment when he had had a glimpse of her on the highroad. He had known at the bottom of his heart that he would see her here today. But to keep his thoughts free, he had tried to persuade himself that he did not know it. Now when he heard that she was here, he was suddenly conscious of such delight, and at the same time of such dread, that his breath failed him and he could not utter what he wanted to say.
斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇虽然持自由主义观点，但他很清楚，见到卡列宁肯定会让人感到一种受宠若惊的感觉，因此他也以此荣幸地对待他最好的朋友。但在那一刻，康斯坦丁·莱文还没有感受到结识这样一个人所带来的所有满足感。自从他遇见渥伦斯基那个令人难忘的夜晚之后，他就没有见过基蒂了，更不用说，也就是他在大路上瞥见她的那一刻了。他心里就知道今天会在这里见到她。但为了让自己的思绪保持自由，他试图说服自己，他并不知道这一点。现在，当他听到她在这里时，他突然感到如此高兴，同时又如此恐惧，他呼吸困难，无法说出自己想说的话。

‘What is she like, what is she like? Like what she used to be, or like what she was in the carriage? What if Darya Alexandrovna told the truth? Why shouldn’t it be the truth?’ he thought.
‘她是什么样子，她是什么样子？就像她以前的样子，还是像她在车厢里的样子？如果达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜说的是实话怎么办？为什么这不应该是事实呢？”他想。

‘Oh, please, introduce me to Karenin,’ he brought out with an effort, and with a desperately determined step he walked into the drawing room and beheld her.
“哦，拜托，把我介绍给卡列宁吧。”他费力地说道，然后迈着极其坚定的步伐走进客厅，看到了她。

She was not the same as she used to be, nor was she as she had been in the carriage; she was quite different.
她不再是原来的她，也不再是马车里的她了。她很不一样。

She was scared, shy, shame-faced, and still more charming from it. She saw him the very instant he walked into the room. She had been expecting him. She was delighted, and so confused at her own delight that there was a moment, the moment when he went up to her sister and glanced again at her, when she, and he, and Dolly, who saw it all, thought she would break down and would begin to cry. She crimsoned, turned white, crimsoned again, and grew faint, waiting with quivering lips for him to come to her. He went up to her, bowed, and held out his hand without speaking. Except for the slight quiver of her lips and the moisture in her eyes that made them brighter, her smile was almost calm as she said:
她害怕、害羞、羞愧，却更显得迷人。他一走进房间，她就看到了他。她一直在等他。她很高兴，但又对自己的高兴感到困惑，以至于有那么一刻，当他走向她姐姐并再次看了她一眼的那一刻，当她、他和看到这一切的多莉都以为她会崩溃的时候。下来并开始哭泣。她的脸涨得通红，变白，又涨红，然后变得昏厥，颤抖着嘴唇等待着他来到她身边。他走到她面前，鞠了一躬，伸出手，没有说话。除了嘴唇微微颤抖，眼眸中的水润让它们更加明亮，她的笑容几乎是平静的说道：

‘How long it is since we’ve seen each other!’ and with desperate determination she pressed his hand with her cold hand.
“我们多久没见面了！”她绝望地用冰冷的手握住了他的手。

‘You’ve not seen me, but I’ve seen you,’ said Levin, with a radiant smile of happiness. ‘I saw you when you were driving from the railway station to Ergushovo.’
“你没见过我，但我见过你。”莱文带着幸福的笑容说道。 “当你从火车站开车前往埃尔古绍沃时，我看到了你。”

‘When?’ she asked, wondering.
“什么时候？”她疑惑地问道。

‘You were driving to Ergushovo,’ said Levin, feeling as if he would sob with the rapture that was flooding his heart. ‘And how dared I associate a thought of anything not innocent with this touching creature? And, yes, I do believe it’s true what Darya Alexandrovna told me,’ he thought.
“你正开车去埃尔古绍沃，”莱文说，他感觉自己好像要因心中的狂喜而哭泣。 “我怎么敢把任何不无辜的想法与这个感人的生物联系起来呢？”而且，是的，我确实相信达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜告诉我的是真的，”他想。

Stepan Arkadyevitch took him by the arm and led him away to Karenin.
斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇挽着他的胳膊，把他带到卡列宁身边。

‘Let me introduce you.’ He mentioned their names.
“让我介绍一下你们。”他提到了他们的名字。

‘Very glad to meet you again,’ said Alexey Alexandrovitch coldly, shaking hands with Levin.
“很高兴再次见到你，”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇冷冷地说，与莱文握手。

‘You are acquainted?’ Stepan Arkadyevitch asked in surprise.
“你们认识？”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇惊讶地问道。

‘We spent three hours together in the train,’ said Levin smiling, ‘but got out, just as in a masquerade, quite mystified—at least I was.’
“我们在火车上一起度过了三个小时，”莱文微笑着说，“但下了车，就像在一场化装舞会上一样，我很困惑——至少我是这样。”

‘Nonsense! Come along, please,’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch, pointing in the direction of the dining room.
'废话！请过来吧。”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇指着餐厅的方向说道。

The men went into the dining-room and went up to a table, laid with six sorts of spirits and as many kinds of cheese, some with little silver spades and some without, caviar, herrings, preserves of various kinds, and plates with slices of French bread.
男人们走进餐厅，走到一张桌子前，桌子上摆着六种烈酒和多种奶酪，有的有小银铲，有的没有，还有鱼子酱、鲱鱼、各种蜜饯和切片盘子。法国面包。

The men stood round the strong-smelling spirits and salt delicacies, and the discussion of the Russification of Poland between Koznishev, Karenin, and Pestsov died down in anticipation of dinner.
男人们围坐在气味浓烈的烈酒和咸味佳肴周围，科兹尼舍夫、卡列宁和佩斯佐夫之间关于波兰俄罗斯化的讨论在晚餐的期待中逐渐平息。

Sergey Ivanovitch was unequaled in his skill in winding up the most heated and serious argument by some unexpected pinch of Attic salt that changed the disposition of his opponent. He did this now.
谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇（Sergey Ivanovitch）的技巧是无与伦比的，他用一些意想不到的阁楼盐来结束最激烈和最严重的争论，改变了对手的性格。他现在就这么做了。

Alexey Alexandrovitch had been maintaining that the Russification of Poland could only be accomplished as a result of larger measures which ought to be introduced by the Russian government.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇一直坚持认为，波兰的俄罗斯化只能通过俄罗斯政府应采取的更大规模措施来实现。

Pestsov insisted that one country can only absorb another when it is the more densely populated.
佩佐夫坚持认为，一个国家只有在人口更稠密的情况下才能吸收另一个国家。

Koznishev admitted both points, but with limitations. As they were going out of the drawing room to conclude the argument, Koznishev said, smiling:
科兹尼舍夫承认这两点，但也有局限性。当他们走出客厅结束争论时，科兹尼舍夫微笑着说道：

‘So, then, for the Russification of our foreign populations there is but one method—to bring up as many children as one can. My brother and I are terribly in fault, I see. You married men, especially you, Stepan Arkadyevitch, are the real patriots: what number have you reached?’ he said, smiling genially at their host and holding out a tiny wine glass to him.
“那么，为了让我们的外国人俄罗斯化，只有一种方法——抚养尽可能多的孩子。我明白了，我和我的兄弟都犯了严重的错误。你们这些已婚男人，尤其是你们，斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇，才是真正的爱国者：你们达到了多少？”他一边说，一边对主人和蔼地微笑着，递给他一个小酒杯。

Everyone laughed, and Stepan Arkadyevitch with particular good humor.
大家都笑了，斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇的幽默感尤其好。

‘Oh, yes, that’s the best method!’ he said, munching cheese and filling the wine-glass with a special sort of spirit. The conversation dropped at the jest.
“哦，是的，这是最好的方法！”他一边说，一边嚼着奶酪，并在酒杯里倒满了一种特殊的烈酒。谈话就这样结束了。

‘This cheese is not bad. Shall I give you some?’ said the master of the house. ‘Why, have you been going in for gymnastics again?’ he asked Levin, pinching his muscle with his left hand. Levin smiled, bent his arm, and under Stepan Arkadyevitch’s fingers the muscles swelled up like a sound cheese, hard as a knob of iron, through the fine cloth of the coat.
‘这奶酪还不错。要不要我给你一些？”房子的主人说。 “怎么，你又开始练习体操了吗？”他用左手捏着肌肉问道。列文微笑着，弯曲他的手臂，在斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇的手指下，肌肉像一块完好的奶酪一样膨胀起来，像铁旋钮一样坚硬，穿过大衣的细布。

‘What biceps! A perfect Samson!’
‘什么二头肌啊！一个完美的参孙！’

‘I imagine great strength is needed for hunting bears,’ observed Alexey Alexandrovitch, who had the mistiest notions about the chase. He cut off and spread with cheese a wafer of bread fine as a spider-web.
“我想狩猎熊需要很大的力量，”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇说道，他对这场追逐的想法最模糊。他切下一片薄如蜘蛛网的面包，并在上面涂上奶酪。

Levin smiled.
莱文笑了。

‘Not at all. Quite the contrary; a child can kill a bear,’ he said, with a slight bow moving aside for the ladies, who were approaching the table.
'一点也不。恰恰相反; “孩子可以杀死一头熊。”他一边说，一边向走近餐桌的女士们微微鞠了一躬。

‘You have killed a bear, I’ve been told!’ said Kitty, trying assiduously to catch with her fork a perverse mushroom that would slip away, and setting the lace quivering over her white arm. ‘Are there bears on your place?’ she added, turning her charming little head to him and smiling.
“有人告诉我，你杀了一只熊！”基蒂一边说，一边努力地用叉子抓住一只会溜走的乖僻蘑菇，把花边放在她白皙的手臂上颤抖。 “你家有熊吗？”她补充道，把迷人的小脑袋转向他，微笑着。

There was apparently nothing extraordinary in what she said, but what unutterable meaning there was for him in every sound, in every turn of her lips, her eyes, her hand as she said it! There was entreaty for forgiveness, and trust in him, and tenderness— soft, timid tenderness—and promise and hope and love for him, which he could not but believe in and which choked him with happiness.
她说的话显然并没有什么特别之处，但是她说话时的每一个声音、每一个嘴唇、她的眼睛、她的手对他来说都意味着什么难以言喻的意义！他恳求宽恕，信任他，还有温柔——温柔、胆怯的温柔——还有对他的承诺、希望和爱，他不得不相信这些，幸福让他窒息。

‘No, we’ve been hunting in the Tver province. It was coming back from there that I met your beaufrere in the train, or your beaufrere’s brother-in-law,’ he said with a smile. ‘It was an amusing meeting.’
“不，我们一直在特维尔省打猎。就是从那里回来的时候，我在火车上遇见了你的男友，或者是你男友的妹夫。”他笑着说道。 “这是一次有趣的会议。”

And he began telling with droll good-humor how, after not sleeping all night, he had, wearing an old fur-lined, full-skirted coat, got into Alexey Alexandrovitch’s compartment.
他开始用滑稽的幽默讲述他整晚没睡之后，如何穿着一件旧的毛皮衬里长裙外套，走进阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇的隔间。

‘The conductor, forgetting the proverb, would have chucked me out on account of my attire; but thereupon I began expressing my feelings in elevated language, and...you, too,’ he said, addressing Karenin and forgetting his name, ‘at first would have ejected me on the ground of the old coat, but afterwards you took my part, for which I am extremely grateful.’
“售票员忘记了这句谚语，可能会因为我的着装而把我赶出去；但从那时起，我开始用高尚的语言表达我的感受，而……你也一样，”他对卡列宁说道，忘记了他的名字，“一开始会把我扔到旧外套的地上，但后来你把我的衣服拿走了。部分，对此我非常感激。

‘The rights of passengers generally to choose their seats are too ill-defined,’ said Alexey Alexandrovitch, rubbing the tips of his fingers on his handkerchief.
“一般来说，乘客选择座位的权利太不明确了，”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇用手帕擦着指尖说道。

‘I saw you were in uncertainty about me,’ said Levin, smiling good-naturedly, ‘but I made haste to plunge into intellectual conversation to smooth over the defects of my attire.’ Sergey Ivanovitch, while he kept up a conversation with their hostess, had one ear for his brother, and he glanced askance at him. ‘What is the matter with him today? Why such a conquering hero?’ he thought. He did not know that Levin was feeling as though he had grown wings. Levin knew she was listening to his words and that she was glad to listen to him. And this was the only thing that interested him. Not in that room only, but in the whole world, there existed for him only himself, with enormously increased importance and dignity in his own eyes, and she. He felt himself on a pinnacle that made him giddy, and far away down below were all those nice excellent Karenins, Oblonskys, and all the world.
“我发现你对我的态度很不确定，”列文和蔼地微笑着说，“但我赶紧投入到知识分子的谈话中，以弥补我着装上的缺陷。”谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇一边继续与他们的谈话，女主人，一只耳朵听着他的兄弟，斜眼看了他一眼。 ‘他今天怎么了？为什么要有这样一个征服英雄？”他想。他不知道莱文感觉自己好像长出了翅膀。莱文知道她正在听他的话，而且她很高兴听他说话。这是他唯一感兴趣的事情。不仅在那个房间里，而且在整个世界上，对他来说，只有他自己，在他眼里，他的重要性和尊严大大增加了，还有她。他感觉自己正处于一个令他头晕的顶峰，而在下面很远的地方，都是那些优秀的卡列宁、奥布朗斯基和整个世界。

Quite without attracting notice, without glancing at them, as though there were no other places left, Stepan Arkadyevitch put Levin and Kitty side by side.
斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇毫不引人注目，连看都不看他们一眼，仿佛已经没有其他地方了，就把列文和基蒂并排放在一起。

‘Oh, you may as well sit there,’ he said to Levin.
“哦，你不妨坐在那里，”他对莱文说。

The dinner was as choice as the china, in which Stepan Arkadyevitch was a connoisseur. The soupe Marie-Louise was a splendid success; the tiny pies eaten with it melted in the mouth and were irreproachable. The two footmen and Matvey, in white cravats, did their duty with the dishes and wines unobtrusively, quietly, and swiftly. On the material side the dinner was a success; it was no less so on the immaterial. The conversation, at times general and at times between individuals, never paused, and towards the end the company was so lively that the men rose from the table, without stopping speaking, and even Alexey Alexandrovitch thawed.
晚餐和瓷器一样精致，斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇是瓷器鉴赏家。玛丽·路易斯汤取得了巨大的成功。和它一起吃的小馅饼入口即化，无可挑剔。两个男仆和玛特威都系着白色领带，端着菜品和酒，不引人注意，安静而迅速地履行着自己的职责。从物质方面来说，晚宴很成功。在非物质方面也是如此。谈话有时是一般性的，有时是个人之间的，从来没有停顿过，到最后，大家都非常活跃，人们从桌子上站起来，不停地说话，甚至阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇也解冻了。

Chapter 10
第10章

Pestsov liked thrashing an argument out to the end, and was not satisfied with Sergey Ivanovitch’s words, especially as he felt the injustice of his view.
佩斯佐夫喜欢把争论进行到底，对谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇的话并不满意，尤其是当他觉得自己的观点不公正时。

‘I did not mean,’ he said over the soup, addressing Alexey Alexandrovitch, ‘mere density of population alone, but in conjunction with fundamental ideas, and not by means of principles.’
“我的意思不是，”他一边喝汤一边对阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇说道，“仅仅是人口密度，而是与基本思想相结合，而不是通过原则。”

‘It seems to me,’ Alexey Alexandrovitch said languidly, and with no haste, ‘that that’s the same thing. In my opinion, influence over another people is only possible to the people which has the higher development, which...’
“在我看来，”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇懒洋洋地、不慌不忙地说，“那是同一回事。”在我看来，只有发展程度较高的人才能对他人产生影响，这……”

‘But that’s just the question,’ Pestsov broke in in his bass.
“但这就是问题所在，”佩佐夫用贝斯打断道。

He was always in a hurry to speak, and seemed always to put his whole soul into what he was saying. ‘In what are we to make higher development consist? The English, the French, the Germans, which is at the highest stage of development? Which of them will nationalize the other? We see the Rhine provinces have been turned French, but the Germans are not at a lower stage!’ he shouted. ‘There is another law at work there.’
他说话总是很匆忙，似乎总是全身心地投入到他所说的事情中。 ‘我们要实现更高的发展包括什么？英国人、法国人、德国人，哪个处于发展的最高阶段？他们中的哪一个会将另一个国有化？我们看到莱茵省已被法国占领，但德国人并没有处于较低的阶段！”他喊道。 “还有另一条法律在起作用。”

‘I fancy that the greater influence is always on the side of true civilization,’ said Alexey Alexandrovitch, slightly lifting his eyebrows.
“我认为真正的文明总是有更大的影响力，”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇微微扬起眉毛说道。

‘But what are we to lay down as the outward signs of true civilization?’ said Pestsov.
“但是我们应该把什么作为真正文明的外在标志呢？”佩斯佐夫说。

‘I imagine such signs are generally very well known,’ said Alexey Alexandrovitch.
“我想这些标志通常是众所周知的，”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇说。

‘But are they fully known?’ Sergey Ivanovitch put in with a subtle smile. ‘It is the accepted view now that real culture must be purely classical; but we see most intense disputes on each side of the question, and there is no denying that the opposite camp has strong points in its favor.’
“但是他们完全了解吗？”谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇带着微妙的微笑插话道。 “现在公认的观点是，真正的文化必须是纯粹的古典文化；但我们看到问题双方的争论最为激烈，不可否认的是，对方阵营也有自己的优势。”

‘You are for classics, Sergey Ivanovitch. Will you take red wine?’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch.
“你喜欢经典，谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇。 “你要喝红酒吗？”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇说道。

‘I am not expressing my own opinion of either form of culture,’ Sergey Ivanovitch said, holding out his glass with a smile of condescension, as to a child. ‘I only say that both sides have strong arguments to support them,’ he went on, addressing Alexey Alexandrovitch. ‘My sympathies are classical from education, but in this discussion I am personally unable to arrive at a conclusion. I see no distinct grounds for classical studies being given a preeminence over scientific studies.’
“我并不是在表达我自己对这两种文化形式的看法，”谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇说道，他带着居高临下的微笑递出杯子，就像对待一个孩子一样。 “我只是说双方都有强有力的论据来支持他们，”他对阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇继续说道。 “我的同情心是来自教育的经典，但在这次讨论中我个人无法得出结论。我认为古典研究没有明显的理由优于科学研究。

‘The natural sciences have just as great an educational value,’ put in Pestsov. ‘Take astronomy, take botany, or zoology with its system of general principles.’
“自然科学也具有同样巨大的教育价值，”佩斯佐夫说道。 “以天文学、植物学或动物学为例，及其一般原理体系。”

‘I cannot quite agree with that,’ responded Alexey Alexandrovitch ‘It seems to me that one must admit that the very process of studying the forms of language has a peculiarly favorable influence on intellectual development. Moreover, it cannot be denied that the influence of the classical authors is in the highest degree moral, while, unfortunately, with the study of the natural sciences are associated the false and noxious doctrines which are the curse of our day.’
“我不太同意这一点，”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇回答道，“在我看来，人们必须承认，研究语言形式的过程本身对智力发展有着特别有利的影响。此外，不可否认的是，古典作家的影响是最高程度的道德影响，而不幸的是，自然科学研究与虚假和有害的学说联系在一起，这些学说是我们这个时代的祸根。

Sergey Ivanovitch would have said something, but Pestsov interrupted him in his rich bass. He began warmly contesting the justice of this view. Sergey Ivanovitch waited serenely to speak, obviously with a convincing reply ready.
谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇本来想说什么，但佩斯佐夫用浑厚的低音打断了他。他开始热烈地质疑这种观点的正确性。谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇静静地等待着说话，显然已经准备好了令人信服的答复。

‘But,’ said Sergey Ivanovitch, smiling subtly, and addressing Karenin, ‘One must allow that to weigh all the advantages and disadvantages of classical and scientific studies is a difficult task, and the question which form of education was to be preferred would not have been so quickly and conclusively decided if there had not been in favor of classical education, as you expressed it just now, its moral—disons le mot—anti-nihilist influence.’
“但是，”谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇巧妙地微笑着，对卡列宁说道，“我们必须承认，权衡古典研究和科学研究的所有优点和缺点是一项艰巨的任务，而选择哪种形式的教育的问题不会如果没有像你刚才所说的那样支持古典教育，它的道德——disons le mot——反虚无主义的影响，那么我们就已经如此迅速和最终地决定了。

‘Undoubtedly.’
'无疑。'

‘If it had not been for the distinctive property of anti-nihilistic influence on the side of classical studies, we should have considered the subject more, have weighed the arguments on both sides,’ said Sergey Ivanovitch with a subtle smile, ‘we should have given elbow-room to both tendencies. But now we know that these little pills of classical learning possess the medicinal property of anti-nihilism, and we boldly prescribe them to our patients.... But what if they had no such medicinal property?’ he wound up humorously.
“如果不是因为古典研究具有反虚无主义影响的独特性质，我们应该更多地考虑这个问题，权衡双方的论点，”谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇带着微妙的微笑说道，“我们应该都为这两种倾向提供了活动空间。但现在我们知道这些经学小药丸具有反虚无主义的药用价值，我们就大胆地给病人开药……但如果它们没有这种药用价值呢？”他幽默地总结道。

At Sergey Ivanovitch’s little pills, everyone laughed; Turovtsin in especial roared loudly and jovially, glad at last to have found something to laugh at, all he ever looked for in listening to conversation.
听到谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇的小药片，大家都笑了。尤其是图罗夫钦，他高兴地大声吼叫，很高兴终于找到了可笑的东西，这就是他在听谈话时所寻找的一切。

Stepan Arkadyevitch had not made a mistake in inviting Pestsov. With Pestsov intellectual conversation never flagged for an instant. Directly Sergey Ivanovitch had concluded the conversation with his jest, Pestsov promptly started a new one.
斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇邀请佩斯佐夫并没有犯错误。与佩佐夫的学术对话一刻也没有停顿过。谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇刚刚结束了他的笑话，佩斯佐夫立即开始了新的谈话。

‘I can’t agree even,’ said he, ‘that the government had that aim. The government obviously is guided by abstract considerations, and remains indifferent to the influence its measures may exercise. The education of women, for instance, would naturally be regarded as likely to be harmful, but the government opens schools and universities for women.’
他说：“我什至不同意政府有这个目标。”政府显然是出于抽象考虑，对其措施可能产生的影响漠不关心。例如，女性的教育自然会被认为可能是有害的，但政府为女性开设了学校和大学。

And the conversation at once passed to the new subject of the education of women.
谈话立刻转到了妇女教育这个新话题。

Alexey Alexandrovitch expressed the idea that the education of women is apt to be confounded with the emancipation of women, and that it is only so that it can be considered dangerous.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇表示，妇女的教育很容易与妇女的解放混为一谈，只有这样才可以被认为是危险的。

‘I consider, on the contrary, that the two questions are inseparably connected together,’ said Pestsov; ‘it is a vicious circle. Woman is deprived of rights from lack of education, and the lack of education results from the absence of rights. We must not forget that the subjection of women is so complete, and dates from such ages back that we are often unwilling to recognize the gulf that separates them from us,’ said he.
“相反，我认为这两个问题是密不可分地联系在一起的，”佩斯佐夫说。 ‘这是一个恶性循环。妇女因缺乏教育而被剥夺权利，而缺乏教育又因权利的缺失而被剥夺。我们绝不能忘记，妇女的服从是如此彻底，并且可以追溯到很久以前，以至于我们常常不愿意承认她们与我们之间的鸿沟，”他说。

‘You said rights,’ said Sergey Ivanovitch, waiting till Pestsov had finished, ‘meaning the right of sitting on juries, of voting, of presiding at official meetings, the right of entering the civil service, of sitting in parliament...’
“你说的是权利，”谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇等佩斯索夫说完后说道，“意思是参加陪审团的权利、投票的权利、主持正式会议的权利、进入公务员队伍的权利、参加议会的权利……”

‘Undoubtedly.’
'无疑。'

‘But if women, as a rare exception, can occupy such positions, it seems to me you are wrong in using the expression ‘rights.’ It would be more correct to say duties. Every man will agree that in doing the duty of a juryman, a witness, a telegraph clerk, we feel we are performing duties. And therefore it would be correct to say that women are seeking duties, and quite legitimately. And one can but sympathize with this desire to assist in the general labor of man.’
“但是，如果女性作为一种罕见的例外能够占据这样的职位，那么在我看来，你使用‘权利’这个词就是错误的。用‘义务’这个词会更正确。”每个人都会同意，在履行陪审员、证人、电报员的职责时，我们感觉自己正在履行职责。因此，可以说女性正在寻求责任，而且是相当合法的。人们只能同情这种协助人类一般劳动的愿望。

‘Quite so,’ Alexey Alexandrovitch assented. ‘The question, I imagine, is simply whether they are fitted for such duties.’
“确实如此，”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇同意道。 “我想，问题很简单，就是他们是否适合承担这样的职责。”

‘They will most likely be perfectly fitted,’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch, ‘when education has become general among them. We see this...’
“当教育在他们中间变得普遍时，他们很可能会完全适应，”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季维奇说。我们看到这个……”

‘How about the proverb?’ said the prince, who had a long while been intent on the conversation, his little comical eyes twinkling. ‘I can say it before my daughter: her hair is long, because her wit is...’
“那句谚语怎么样？”王子问道，他已经专注于谈话了很长时间，他那双滑稽的小眼睛闪闪发光。 “我可以在我女儿面前说：她的头发很长，因为她的智慧......”

‘Just what they thought of the negroes before their emancipation!’ said Pestsov angrily.
“这就是他们对解放前的黑人的看法！”佩佐夫愤怒地说。

‘What seems strange to me is that women should seek fresh duties,’ said Sergey Ivanovitch, ‘while we see, unhappily, that men usually try to avoid them.’
“我觉得奇怪的是，女性应该寻求新的职责，”谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇说，“而我们不幸地看到，男性通常试图回避这些职责。”

‘Duties are bound up with rights—power, money, honor; those are what women are seeking,’ said Pestsov.
“义务与权利紧密相连——权力、金钱、荣誉；这些就是女性所追求的，”佩斯佐夫说。

‘Just as though I should seek the right to be a wet-nurse and feel injured because women are paid for the work, while no one will take me,’ said the old prince.
老王子说：“就像我应该寻求成为奶妈的权利一样，我会感到受伤，因为女人做这份工作是有报酬的，但没有人愿意接受我。”

Turovtsin exploded in a loud roar of laughter and Sergey Ivanovitch regretted that he had not made this comparison. Even Alexey Alexandrovitch smiled.
图罗夫钦爆发出一阵大笑，谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇后悔自己没有进行这种比较。就连阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇也笑了。

‘Yes, but a man can’t nurse a baby,’ said Pestsov, ‘while a woman...’
“是的，但是男人不能给婴儿喂奶，”佩斯佐夫说，“而女人……”

‘No, there was an Englishman who did suckle his baby on board ship,’ said the old prince, feeling this freedom in conversation permissible before his own daughters.
“不，确实有一个英国人在船上给他的孩子喂奶，”老王子说道，他觉得在自己的女儿们面前这种自由的谈话是允许的。

‘There are as many such Englishmen as there would be women officials,’ said Sergey Ivanovitch.
“这样的英国男人和女官员一样多，”谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇说。

‘Yes, but what is a girl to do who has no family?’ put in Stepan Arkadyevitch, thinking of Masha Tchibisova, whom he had had in his mind all along, in sympathizing with Pestsov and supporting him.
“是的，但是一个没有家庭的女孩该怎么办呢？”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇问道，他想起了玛莎·奇比索娃，他一直在心里同情佩斯佐夫并支持他。

‘If the story of such a girl were thoroughly sifted, you would find she had abandoned a family—her own or a sister’s, where she might have found a woman’s duties,’ Darya Alexandrovna broke in unexpectedly in a tone of exasperation, probably suspecting what sort of girl Stepan Arkadyevitch was thinking of.
“如果对这样一个女孩的故事进行彻底的筛选，你会发现她抛弃了一个家庭——她自己的家庭或姐妹的家庭，在那里她可能找到了女人的职责，”达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜出人意料地用一种愤怒的语气插话道，可能是在怀疑斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇在想什么样的女孩？

‘But we take our stand on principle as the ideal,’ replied Pestsov in his mellow bass. ‘Woman desires to have rights, to be independent, educated. She is oppressed, humiliated by the consciousness of her disabilities.’
“但我们把我们的原则立场视为理想，”佩佐夫用柔和的低音回答道。 “女人渴望拥有权利、独立、受教育。她因意识到自己的残疾而感到压抑和羞辱。

‘And I’m oppressed and humiliated that they won’t engage me at the Foundling,’ the old prince said again, to the huge delight of Turovtsin, who in his mirth dropped his asparagus with the thick end in the sauce.
“他们不肯在弃儿院与我交战，让我感到压抑和羞辱。”老王子又说了一遍，这让图罗夫钦非常高兴，他笑着把芦笋的粗头掉进了酱汁里。

Chapter 11
第11章

Everyone took part in the conversation except Kitty and Levin. At first, when they were talking of the influence that one people has on another, there rose to Levin’s mind what he had to say on the subject. But these ideas, once of such importance in his eyes, seemed to come into his brain as in a dream, and had now not the slightest interest for him. It even struck him as strange that they should be so eager to talk of what was of no use to anyone. Kitty, too, should, one would have supposed, have been interested in what they were saying of the rights and education of women. How often she had mused on the subject, thinking of her friend abroad, Varenka, of her painful state of dependence, how often she had wondered about herself what would become of her if she did not marry, and how often she had argued with her sister about it! But it did not interest her at all. She and Levin had a conversation of their own, yet not a conversation, but some sort of mysterious communication, which brought them every moment nearer, and stirred in both a sense of glad terror before the unknown into which they were entering.
除了基蒂和莱文之外，所有人都参与了谈话。起初，当他们谈论一个民族对另一个民族的影响时，莱文脑海中浮现出他在这个问题上要说的话。但这些曾经在他眼中如此重要的想法，现在却像在梦中一样进入他的大脑，现在对他没有丝毫的兴趣。甚至让他感到奇怪的是，他们竟然如此热衷于谈论对任何人都没有用的事情。有人认为，基蒂也应该对他们所说的妇女权利和教育感兴趣。她有多少次沉思这个话题，想起她在国外的朋友瓦伦卡，想起她痛苦的依赖状态；她有多少次想知道，如果她不结婚的话，自己会变成什么样子；她有多少次与她争吵。姐姐一下吧！但她对此完全不感兴趣。她和莱文有自己的谈话，但不是谈话，而是某种神秘的交流，这让他们每时每刻都更加接近，并在他们即将进入的未知世界面前激起一种愉快的恐惧感。

At first Levin, in answer to Kitty’s question how he could have seen her last year in the carriage, told her how he had been coming home from the mowing along the highroad and had met her.
起初，莱文在回答基蒂的问题时，告诉她他去年在马车上怎么会见到她，并告诉她他是如何沿着公路割草回家并遇见她的。

‘It was very, very early in the morning. You were probably only just awake. Your mother was asleep in the corner. It was an exquisite morning. I was walking along wondering who it could be in a four-in-hand? It was a splendid set of four horses with bells, and in a second you flashed by, and I saw you at the window—you were sitting like this, holding the strings of your cap in both hands, and thinking awfully deeply about something,’ he said, smiling. ‘How I should like to know what you were thinking about then! Something important?’
‘当时是凌晨非常非常早。你可能才刚刚醒来。你妈妈在角落里睡着了。这是一个美妙的早晨。我一边走一边想知道四手联弹的会是谁？那是一组漂亮的四匹带铃铛的马，一瞬间你就闪过，我看到你在窗边——你就这样坐着，双手握着帽子的绳子，沉思着什么，他微笑着说道。 ‘我多么想知道你当时在想什么啊！有什么重要的事情吗？

‘Wasn’t I dreadfully untidy?’ she wondered, but seeing the smile of ecstasy these reminiscences called up, she felt that the impression she had made had been very good. She blushed and laughed with delight; ‘Really I don’t remember.’
“我不是太邋遢了吗？”她想道，但看到这些回忆唤起的狂喜的笑容，她觉得自己给人留下的印象很好。她脸红了，高兴地笑了。 “我真的不记得了。”

‘How nicely Turovtsin laughs!’ said Levin, admiring his moist eyes and shaking chest.
“图罗夫钦笑得多好看啊！”莱文说道，欣赏着他湿润的眼睛和颤抖的胸膛。

‘Have you known him long?’ asked Kitty.
“你认识他很久了吗？”基蒂问。

‘Oh, everyone knows him!’
“哦，每个人都认识他！”

‘And I see you think he’s a horrid man?’
“我看你认为他是个可怕的人？”

‘Not horrid, but nothing in him.’
“不可怕，但他身上什么也没有。”

‘Oh, you’re wrong! And you must give up thinking so directly!’ said Kitty. ‘I used to have a very poor opinion of him too, but he, he’s an awfully nice and wonderfully good-hearted man. He has a heart of gold.’
‘噢，你错了！你必须放弃这么直接的思考！”基蒂说。 “我以前对他的评价也很差，但他是一个非常好的人，而且心地非常好。他有一颗金子般的心。

‘How could you find out what sort of heart he has?’
“你怎么知道他有什么样的心呢？”

‘We are great friends. I know him very well. Last winter, soon after...you came to see us,’ she said, with a guilty and at the same time confiding smile, ‘all Dolly’s children had scarlet fever, and he happened to come and see her. And only fancy,’ she said in a whisper, ‘he felt so sorry for her that he stayed and began to help her look after the children. Yes, and for three weeks he stopped with them, and looked after the children like a nurse.’
“我们是好朋友。我很了解他。去年冬天，不久之后……你来看我们，”她带着愧疚而又信任的微笑说道，“多莉的所有孩子都得了猩红热，而他碰巧来看望她。只是想象，”她低声说道，“他为她感到难过，所以留下来帮助她照顾孩子。是的，他和他们呆在一起三个星期，像护士一样照顾孩子们。

‘I am telling Konstantin Dmitrievitch about Turovtsin in the scarlet fever,’ she said, bending over to her sister.
“我正在向康斯坦丁·德米特里耶维奇讲述图罗夫钦染上猩红热的事，”她弯下腰对妹妹说道。

‘Yes, it was wonderful, noble!’ said Dolly, glancing towards Turovtsin, who had become aware they were talking of him, and smiling gently to him. Levin glanced once more at Turovtsin, and wondered how it was he had not realized all this man’s goodness before.
“是的，这太棒了，高贵！”多莉说，看了一眼图罗夫钦，图罗夫钦已经意识到他们在谈论他，并对他温柔地微笑。列文又看了一眼图罗夫钦，心想自己以前怎么没有意识到这个人的善良。

‘I’m sorry, I’m sorry, and I’ll never think ill of people again!’ he said gaily, genuinely expressing what he felt at the moment.
“对不起，对不起，我再也不会想人坏事了！”他高兴地说，真诚地表达了他此刻的感受。

Chapter 12
第12章

Connected with the conversation that had sprung up on the rights of women there were certain questions as to the inequality of rights in marriage improper to discuss before the ladies. Pestsov had several times during dinner touched upon these questions, but Sergey Ivanovitch and Stepan Arkadyevitch carefully drew him off them.
与关于妇女权利的讨论相关，存在一些关于婚姻中权利不平等的问题，不适合在女士们面前讨论。佩佐夫在晚餐时曾多次谈到这些问题，但谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇和斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇小心翼翼地让他回避这些问题。

When they rose from the table and the ladies had gone out, Pestsov did not follow them, but addressing Alexey Alexandrovitch, began to expound the chief ground of inequality. The inequality in marriage, in his opinion, lay in the fact that the infidelity of the wife and the infidelity of the husband are punished unequally, both by the law and by public opinion. Stepan Arkadyevitch went hurriedly up to Alexey Alexandrovitch and offered him a cigar.
当他们从餐桌上起身，女士们都出去后，佩斯佐夫没有跟着他们，而是对阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇开始阐述不平等的主要原因。在他看来，婚姻中的不平等在于，妻子的不忠和丈夫的不忠受到的法律和舆论的惩罚是不平等的。斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇急忙走到阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇面前，递给他一支雪茄。

‘No, I don’t smoke,’ Alexey Alexandrovitch answered calmly, and as though purposely wishing to show that he was not afraid of the subject, he turned to Pestsov with a chilly smile.
“不，我不抽烟。”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇平静地回答，似乎是故意要表明他并不害怕这个话题，他转向佩斯佐夫，冷冷一笑。

‘I imagine that such a view has a foundation in the very nature of things,’ he said, and would have gone on to the drawing room. But at this point Turovtsin broke suddenly and unexpectedly into the conversation, addressing Alexey Alexandrovitch.
“我想这种观点是有事物本质的基础的，”他说道，然后就走进了客厅。但就在这时，图罗夫钦突然出人意料地打断了谈话，对阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇说道。

‘You heard, perhaps, about Pryatchnikov?’ said Turovtsin, warmed up by the champagne he had drunk, and long waiting for an opportunity to break the silence that had weighed on him. ‘Vasya Pryatchnikov,’ he said, with a good-natured smile on his damp, red lips, addressing himself principally to the most important guest, Alexey Alexandrovitch, ‘they told me today he fought a duel with Kvitsky at Tver, and has killed him.’
“也许你听说过普里亚奇尼科夫的事？”图罗夫钦喝了香槟，浑身暖和起来，他一直在等待一个机会来打破一直压在他心头的沉默。 “瓦夏·普里亚奇尼科夫，”他湿红的嘴唇上带着善意的微笑，主要是对最重要的客人阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇说，“他们今天告诉我，他在特维尔与科维茨基决斗，并杀死了他。”他。'

Just as it always seems that one bruises oneself on a sore place, so Stepan Arkadyevitch felt now that the conversation would by ill luck fall every moment on Alexey Alexandrovitch’s sore spot. He would again have got his brother-in-law away, but Alexey Alexandrovitch himself inquired, with curiosity:
就像人们总是在痛处碰伤一样，斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇现在觉得，不幸的是，谈话每时每刻都会落在阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇的痛处上。他本想再次把他的姐夫带走，但阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇本人好奇地问道：

‘What did Pryatchnikov fight about?’
“普里亚奇尼科夫因为什么而吵架？”

‘His wife. Acted like a man, he did! Called him out and shot him!’
'他的老婆。他表现得像个男人，他做到了！把他叫出来并开枪打死他！

‘Ah!’ said Alexey Alexandrovitch indifferently, and lifting his eyebrows, he went into the drawing room.
“啊！”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇冷漠地说，扬起眉毛，走进客厅。

‘How glad I am you have come,’ Dolly said with a frightened smile, meeting him in the outer drawing room. ‘I must talk to you. Let’s sit here.’
“我很高兴你能来，”多莉在外客厅见到他，脸上带着惊恐的微笑。 ‘我必须和你谈谈。我们坐在这里吧。

Alexey Alexandrovitch, with the same expression of indifference, given him by his lifted eyebrows, sat down beside Darya Alexandrovna, and smiled affectedly.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇也带着同样冷漠的表情，扬起眉毛，坐在达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜身边，故作微笑。

‘It’s fortunate,’ said he, ‘especially as I was meaning to ask you to excuse me, and to be taking leave. I have to start tomorrow.’
“这很幸运，”他说，“尤其是我正想请你原谅我，并且要请假。”我明天必须开始。

Darya Alexandrovna was firmly convinced of Anna’s innocence, and she felt herself growing pale and her lips quivering with anger at this frigid, unfeeling man, who was so calmly intending to ruin her innocent friend.
达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜坚信安娜是清白的，她觉得自己脸色变得苍白，嘴唇因愤怒而颤抖，因为这个冷酷无情的男人如此平静地打算毁掉她无辜的朋友。

‘Alexey Alexandrovitch,’ she said, with desperate resolution looking him in the face, ‘I asked you about Anna, you made me no answer. How is she?’
“阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇，”她绝望地看着他的脸，说道，“我问过你关于安娜的事，你没有回答我。她怎么样？'

‘She is, I believe, quite well, Darya Alexandrovna,’ replied Alexey Alexandrovitch, not looking at her.
“我相信，她很好，达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜，”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇回答道，没有看她。

‘Alexey Alexandrovitch, forgive me, I have no right...but I love Anna as a sister, and esteem her; I beg, I beseech you to tell me what is wrong between you? what fault do you find with her?’
“阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇，请原谅我，我没有权利……但我爱安娜，就像我的妹妹一样，尊重她；我求求你告诉我你们之间到底出了什么问题？你觉得她有什么毛病吗？

Alexey Alexandrovitch frowned, and almost closing his eyes, dropped his head.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇皱起了眉头，几乎闭上了眼睛，低下了头。

‘I presume that your husband has told you the grounds on which I consider it necessary to change my attitude to Anna Arkadyevna?’ he said, not looking her in the face, but eyeing with displeasure Shtcherbatsky, who was walking across the drawing room.
“我想你的丈夫已经告诉过你我认为有必要改变对安娜·阿尔卡季耶夫娜的态度的理由了？”他说，没有看她的脸，而是不满地看着走过客厅的谢尔巴茨基。

‘I don’t believe it, I don’t believe it, I can’t believe it!’ Dolly said, clasping her bony hands before her with a vigorous gesture. She rose quickly, and laid her hand on Alexey Alexandrovitch’s sleeve. ‘We shall be disturbed here. Come this way, please.’
“我不相信，我不相信，我简直不敢相信！”多莉一边说，一边用力地握着瘦骨嶙峋的双手。她迅速站起来，把手放在阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇的袖子上。 ‘我们在这里会受到打扰。请这边走。

Dolly’s agitation had an effect on Alexey Alexandrovitch. He got up and submissively followed her to the schoolroom. They sat down to a table covered with an oilcloth cut in slits by penknives.
多莉的激动对阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇产生了影响。他起身，顺从地跟着她去了教室。他们坐在一张桌子旁，桌子上铺着用小刀划出的缝隙的油布。

‘I don’t, I don’t believe it!’ Dolly said, trying to catch his glance that avoided her.
“我不，我不相信！”多莉说，试图捕捉他避开她的目光。

‘One cannot disbelieve facts, Darya Alexandrovna,’ said he, with an emphasis on the word ‘facts.’
“人们不能不相信事实，达里娅·亚历山德罗芙娜，”他说道，并强调了“事实”这个词。

‘But what has she done?’ said Darya Alexandrovna. ‘What precisely has she done?’
“但是她做了什么？”达里娅·亚历山德罗芙娜问道。 “她到底做了什么？”

‘She has forsaken her duty, and deceived her husband. That’s what she has done,’ said he.
‘她背弃了自己的职责，欺骗了她的丈夫。这就是她所做的，”他说。

‘No, no, it can’t be! No, for God’s sake, you are mistaken,’ said Dolly, putting her hands to her temples and closing her eyes.
‘不，不，这不可能！不，看在上帝的份上，你错了。”多莉说着，双手放在太阳穴上，闭上了眼睛。

Alexey Alexandrovitch smiled coldly, with his lips alone, meaning to signify to her and to himself the firmness of his conviction; but this warm defense, though it could not shake him, reopened his wound. He began to speak with greater heat.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇冷冷地微笑着，只用嘴唇，意在向她和他自己表示他坚定的信念。但这种温暖的防御，虽然无法动摇他，但却重新撕开了他的伤口。他开始更加激烈地说话。

‘It is extremely difficult to be mistaken when a wife herself informs her husband of the fact—informs him that eight years of her life, and a son, all that’s a mistake, and that she wants to begin life again,’ he said angrily, with a snort.
他愤怒地说：“当妻子亲自告诉丈夫这个事实——告诉他她已经度过了八年的生活，还有一个儿子，这一切都是一个错误，她想重新开始生活时，这是极难犯错的。” ，哼了一声。

‘Anna and sin—I cannot connect them, I cannot believe it!’
“安娜和罪恶——我无法将它们联系起来，我简直不敢相信！”

‘Darya Alexandrovna,’ he said, now looking straight into Dolly’s kindly, troubled face, and feeling that his tongue was being loosened in spite of himself, ‘I would give a great deal for doubt to be still possible. When I doubted, I was miserable, but it was better than now. When I doubted, I had hope; but now there is no hope, and still I doubt of everything. I am in such doubt of everything that I even hate my son, and sometimes do not believe he is my son. I am very unhappy.’
“达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜，”他说，现在直视着多莉那张慈祥而忧心忡忡的脸，感觉自己的舌头不由自主地放松了，“我愿意付出很大的努力，让怀疑仍然存在。”当我怀疑的时候，我很痛苦，但比现在好多了。当我怀疑时，我就有希望；当我怀疑时，我就有希望；但现在已经没有希望了，我仍然怀疑一切。我对一切都抱有怀疑，甚至讨厌我的儿子，有时甚至不相信他是我的儿子。我很不高兴。

He had no need to say that. Darya Alexandrovna had seen that as soon as he glanced into her face; and she felt sorry for him, and her faith in the innocence of her friend began to totter.
他没有必要这么说。当他看到达里娅·亚历山德罗芙娜的脸时，她就看出了这一点。她为他感到难过，她对朋友清白的信心开始动摇。

‘Oh, this is awful, awful! But can it be true that you are resolved on a divorce?’
‘噢，这太可怕了，太可怕了！但你真的决心离婚吗？

‘I am resolved on extreme measures. There is nothing else for me to do.’
“我决心采取极端措施。我没有别的事可做。

‘Nothing else to do, nothing else to do...’ she replied, with tears in her eyes. ‘Oh no, don’t say nothing else to do!’ she said.
“没什么可做的，没什么可做的……”她回答道，眼里含着泪水。 “哦，不，别说别的事可做！”她说。

‘What is horrible in a trouble of this kind is that one cannot, as in any other—in loss, in death—bear one’s trouble in peace, but that one must act,’ said he, as though guessing her thought. ‘One must get out of the humiliating position in which one is placed; one can’t live a trois.’
“在这种麻烦中，可怕的是，一个人不能像在任何其他麻烦中一样——在失去、死亡中——平静地忍受自己的麻烦，但必须采取行动，”他说，仿佛猜到了她的想法。 ‘一个人必须摆脱自己所处的屈辱地位；一个人不能过三人生活。

‘I understand, I quite understand that,’ said Dolly, and her head sank. She was silent for a little, thinking of herself, of her own grief in her family, and all at once, with an impulsive movement, she raised her head and clasped her hands with an imploring gesture. ‘But wait a little! You are a Christian. Think of her! What will become of her, if you cast her off?’
“我明白，我非常明白，”多莉说，她的头低了下来。她沉默了一会儿，想到了自己，想到了自己对家人的悲痛，突然，她冲动地抬起头，双手合十，做出恳求的姿势。 ‘但是等一下！你是基督徒。想想她吧！如果你抛弃她，她会怎么样？

‘I have thought, Darya Alexandrovna, I have thought a great deal,’ said Alexey Alexandrovitch. His face turned red in patches, and his dim eyes looked straight before him. Darya Alexandrovna at that moment pitied him with all her heart. ‘That was what I did indeed when she herself made known to me my humiliation; I left everything as of old. I gave her a chance to reform, I tried to save her. And with what result? She would not regard the slightest request—that she should observe decorum,’ he said, getting heated. ‘One may save anyone who does not want to be ruined; but if the whole nature is so corrupt, so depraved, that ruin itself seems to be her salvation, what’s to be done?’
“我想了，达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜，我想了很多。”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇说。他的脸涨得通红，暗淡的眸子直视着前方。达里娅·亚历山德罗芙娜此刻全心全意地同情他。 “当她亲自让我知道我所受的屈辱时，我确实就是这么做的；我把一切都留下了。我给了她改过自新的机会，我试图拯救她。结果如何？她不会接受哪怕是最轻微的要求——她应该遵守礼仪。”他说，语气变得很激动。 ‘不想被毁灭的人，可以拯救；不想被毁灭的人，可以拯救；不想毁灭的人，可以拯救。但如果整个本性如此腐败、如此堕落，毁灭本身似乎就是她的救赎，那该怎么办呢？

‘Anything, only not divorce!’ answered Darya Alexandrovna
“什么都可以，只是不能离婚！”达里娅·亚历山德罗芙娜回答道。

‘But what is anything?’
“但是什么是东西呢？”

‘No, it is awful! She will be no one’s wife, she will be lost!’
‘不，这太可怕了！她不会成为任何人的妻子，她会迷失的！

‘What can I do?’ said Alexey Alexandrovitch, raising his shoulders and his eyebrows. The recollection of his wife’s last act had so incensed him that he had become frigid, as at the beginning of the conversation. ‘I am very grateful for your sympathy, but I must be going,’ he said, getting up.
“我能做什么？”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇抬起肩膀，扬起了眉毛。回忆起妻子最后的举动，他感到非常愤怒，以至于他变得冷漠，就像谈话开始时一样。 “我非常感谢你的同情，但我必须走了，”他站起来说道。

‘No, wait a minute. You must not ruin her. Wait a little; I will tell you about myself. I was married, and my husband deceived me; in anger and jealousy, I would have thrown up everything, I would myself.... But I came to myself again; and who did it? Anna saved me. And here I am living on. The children are growing up, my husband has come back to his family, and feels his fault, is growing purer, better, and I live on.... I have forgiven it, and you ought to forgive!’
‘不，等一下。你一定不能毁了她。等一下;我会告诉你我自己。我已经结婚了，我的丈夫欺骗了我；在愤怒和嫉妒中，我会抛弃一切，我自己也会……但我又醒悟了；谁干的？安娜救了我。我就住在这里。孩子们长大了，我的丈夫回到了他的家庭，并认识到了自己的错误，变得更加纯洁，更加美好，我还活着……我已经原谅了，你也应该原谅！

Alexey Alexandrovitch heard her, but her words had no effect on him now. All the hatred of that day when he had resolved on a divorce had sprung up again in his soul. He shook himself, and said in a shrill, loud voice:—
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇听到了她的话，但她的话现在对他没有任何影响。那天他决定离婚时的所有仇恨，又在他的灵魂中涌现。他抖了抖身子，用尖厉的声音说道：

‘Forgive I cannot, and do not wish to, and I regard it as wrong. I have done everything for this woman, and she has trodden it all in the mud to which she is akin. I am not a spiteful man, I have never hated anyone, but I hate her with my whole soul, and I cannot even forgive her, because I hate her too much for all the wrong she has done me!’ he said, with tones of hatred in his voice.
“原谅我不能，也不愿意，我认为这是错误的。我为这个女人做了一切，而她却把这一切都踩在了她所熟悉的泥沼里。我不是一个恶毒的人，我从来没有恨过任何人，但我全心全意地恨她，我什至无法原谅她，因为我太恨她了，因为她对我做了那么多错事！”他用语气说道。他的声音里充满了仇恨。

‘Love those that hate you....’ Darya Alexandrovna whispered timorously.
“爱那些恨你的人……”达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜胆怯地低声说道。

Alexey Alexandrovitch smiled contemptuously. That he knew long ago, but it could not be applied to his case.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇轻蔑地笑了笑。这些他很早就知道了，但是却不适用于他的情况。

‘Love those that hate you, but to love those one hates is impossible. Forgive me for having troubled you. Everyone has enough to bear in his own grief!’ And regaining his self-possession, Alexey Alexandrovitch quietly took leave and went away.
‘爱那些恨你的人，但爱那些恨你的人是不可能的。请原谅我给你添麻烦了。每个人都足以承受自己的悲伤！” 阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇恢复了冷静，悄悄告辞离开了。

Chapter 13
第13章

When they rose from table, Levin would have liked to follow Kitty into the drawing room; but he was afraid she might dislike this, as too obviously paying her attention. He remained in the little ring of men, taking part in the general conversation, and without looking at Kitty, he was aware of her movements, her looks, and the place where she was in the drawing room.
当他们从餐桌上站起来时，莱文很想跟着基蒂走进客厅。但他担心她会不喜欢这样，因为她显然太在意了。他留在一小群男人中，参与一般性的谈话，不用看凯蒂，他也知道她的动作、她的表情，以及她在客厅里的位置。

He did at once, and without the smallest effort, keep the promise he had made her—always to think well of all men, and to like everyone always. The conversation fell on the village commune, in which Pestsov saw a sort of special principle, called by him the choral principle. Levin did not agree with Pestsov, nor with his brother, who had a special attitude of his own, both admitting and not admitting the significance of the Russian commune. But he talked to them, simply trying to reconcile and soften their differences. He was not in the least interested in what he said himself, and even less so in what they said; all he wanted was that they and everyone should be happy and contented. He knew now the one thing of importance; and that one thing was at first there, in the drawing room, and then began moving across and came to a standstill at the door. Without turning round he felt the eyes fixed on him, and the smile, and he could not help turning round. She was standing in the doorway with Shtcherbatsky, looking at him.
他立刻就做到了，毫不费力地兑现了他对她的承诺——永远为所有男人着想，永远喜欢每个人。谈话落在了乡村公社上，佩斯佐夫在其中看到了一种特殊的原则，他称之为合唱原则。列文不同意佩斯佐夫的观点，也不同意他的兄弟的观点，后者有自己特殊的态度，既承认又不承认俄罗斯公社的重要性。但他与他们交谈，只是试图调和并缓和他们的分歧。他对自己所说的话一点也不感兴趣，更对他们所说的话更不感兴趣。他所希望的只是他们和每个人都应该幸福和满足。他现在知道了一件重要的事情：那东西一开始还在客厅里，然后开始移动，停在门口。没有转身，他就感觉到一双眼睛注视着他，还有那微笑，他情不自禁地转过身来。她和谢尔巴茨基一起站在门口，看着他。

‘I thought you were going towards the piano,’ said he, going up to her. ‘That’s something I miss in the country—music.’
“我以为你要走向钢琴，”他走到她面前说道。 “这就是我在乡下怀念的东西——音乐。”

‘No; we only came to fetch you and thank you,’ she said, rewarding him with a smile that was like a gift, ‘for coming. What do they want to argue for? No one ever convinces anyone, you know.’
'不;我们只是来接你并感谢你，”她说，用一个像礼物一样的微笑奖励他，“感谢你的到来。他们想争论什么？你知道，没有人能够说服任何人。

‘Yes; that’s true,’ said Levin; ‘it generally happens that one argues warmly simply because one can’t make out what one’s opponent wants to prove.’
'是的;是的，”莱文说。 “通常情况下，一个人激烈争论只是因为无法弄清楚对手想要证明什么。”

Levin had often noticed in discussions between the most intelligent people that after enormous efforts, and an enormous expenditure of logical subtleties and words, the disputants finally arrived at being aware that what they had so long been struggling to prove to one another had long ago, from the beginning of the argument, been known to both, but that they liked different things, and would not define what they liked for fear of its being attacked. He had often had the experience of suddenly in a discussion grasping what it was his opponent liked and at once liking it too, and immediately he found himself agreeing, and then all arguments fell away as useless. Sometimes, too, he had experienced the opposite, expressing at last what he liked himself, which he was devising arguments to defend, and, chancing to express it well and genuinely, he had found his opponent at once agreeing and ceasing to dispute his position. He tried to say this.
莱文经常注意到，在最聪明的人之间的讨论中，经过巨大的努力，以及逻辑上的微妙和言语的巨大消耗，争论者最终意识到，他们长期以来一直在努力向对方证明的东西很久以前就已经存在了，从争论一开始，双方就都知道，但他们喜欢的东西不同，而且不会定义自己喜欢什么，以免受到攻击。他经常有这样的经历：在讨论中突然明白了对手喜欢什么，立刻也喜欢上了，然后他立刻就同意了，然后所有的争论都变得毫无用处。有时，他也经历了相反的情况，最终表达了他自己喜欢的东西，他正在设计论据来捍卫它，并且，有机会将其表达得好而真诚，他发现他的对手立即同意并不再争论他的立场。他试图说出这句话。

She knitted her brow, trying to understand. But directly he began to illustrate his meaning, she understood at once.
她皱起眉头，试图理解。但当他一开始说明他的意思时，她立刻就明白了。

‘I know: one must find out what he is arguing for, what is precious to him, then one can...’
“我知道：必须弄清楚他在争论什么，什么对他来说是宝贵的，然后才能……”

She had completely guessed and expressed his badly expressed idea. Levin smiled joyfully; he was struck by this transition from the confused, verbose discussion with Pestsov and his brother to this laconic, clear, almost wordless communication of the most complex ideas.
她完全猜到了他表达得很糟糕的想法，也表达了出来。莱文高兴地笑了。从与佩斯佐夫及其兄弟的混乱、冗长的讨论到这种简洁、清晰、几乎无言的最复杂思想的交流的转变，他感到震惊。

Shtcherbatsky moved away from them, and Kitty, going up to a card table, sat down, and, taking up the chalk, began drawing diverging circles over the new green cloth.
谢尔巴茨基从他们身边走开，基蒂走到一张牌桌前坐下，拿起粉笔，开始在新的绿布上画不同的圆圈。

They began again on the subject that had been started at dinner— the liberty and occupations of women. Levin was of the opinion of Darya Alexandrovna that a girl who did not marry should find a woman’s duties in a family. He supported this view by the fact that no family can get on without women to help; that in every family, poor or rich, there are and must be nurses, either relations or hired.
他们又开始讨论晚餐时开始的话题——妇女的自由和职业。莱文赞同达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜的观点，即未结婚的女孩应该在家庭中找到女性的职责。他支持这一观点，因为没有女人的帮助，任何家庭都无法相处。每个家庭，无论贫穷还是富有，都必须有护士，无论是亲戚还是雇来的。

‘No,’ said Kitty, blushing, but looking at him all the more boldly with her truthful eyes; ‘a girl may be so circumstanced that she cannot live in the family without humiliation, while she herself...’
“不，”基蒂红着脸说道，但用她真诚的眼睛看着他，眼神更加大胆。 “一个女孩的处境可能如此，以至于她无法在家庭中不受到羞辱地生活，而她自己……”

At the hint he understood her.
听了她的暗示，他明白了。

‘Oh, yes,’ he said. ‘Yes, yes, yes—you’re right; you’re right!’
“哦，是的，”他说。 ‘是的，是的，是的——你说得对；你说得对！'

And he saw all that Pestsov had been maintaining at dinner of the liberty of woman, simply from getting a glimpse of the terror of an old maid’s existence and its humiliation in Kitty’s heart; and loving her, he felt that terror and humiliation, and at once gave up his arguments.
他看到了佩斯索夫在晚宴上一直坚持的关于妇女自由的一切，仅仅是因为瞥见了一个老处女的存在的恐怖和基蒂心中的耻辱；爱着她，他感到恐惧和羞辱，并立即放弃了他的争论。

A silence followed. She was still drawing with the chalk on the table. Her eyes were shining with a soft light. Under the influence of her mood he felt in all his being a continually growing tension of happiness.
接下来是一阵沉默。她还在用桌上的粉笔画画。她的眼睛闪烁着柔和的光芒。在她情绪的影响下，他全身心都感到一种幸福的紧张感在不断增强。

‘Ah! I’ve scribbled all over the table!’ she said, and, laying down the chalk, she made a movement as though to get up.
'啊！我在桌子上乱写乱画了！”她说着，放下粉笔，做了一个好像要站起来的动作。

‘What! shall I be left alone—without her?’ he thought with horror, and he took the chalk. ‘Wait a minute,’ he said, sitting down to the table. ‘I’ve long wanted to ask you one thing.’
'什么！ “我会孤身一人——没有她吗？”他惊恐地想，然后拿起粉笔。 “等一下，”他坐到桌边说道。 “我一直想问你一件事。”

He looked straight into her caressing, though frightened eyes.
他直视着她充满爱抚但又充满恐惧的眼睛。

‘Please, ask it.’
“拜托，问吧。”

‘Here,’ he said; and he wrote the initial letters, w, y, t, m, i, c, n, b, d, t, m, n, o, t. These letters meant, ‘When you told me it could never be, did that mean never, or then?’ There seemed no likelihood that she could make out this complicated sentence; but he looked at her as though his life depended on her understanding the words. She glanced at him seriously, then leaned her puckered brow on her hands and began to read. Once or twice she stole a look at him, as though asking him, ‘Is it what I think?’
“在这里，”他说。他写下了首字母w、y、t、m、i、c、n、b、d、t、m、n、o、t。这些信的意思是，“当你告诉我这永远不可能时，这是否意味着永远不会，或者然后？”她似乎不可能听懂这个复杂的句子；但他看着她，仿佛他的生命取决于她能否理解这些话。她认真地看了他一眼，然后皱起眉头，用手撑着，开始读起来。有一两次她偷偷地看了他一眼，好像在问他：“是我想的那样吗？”

‘I understand,’ she said, flushing a little.
“我明白，”她说，脸有点红。

‘What is this word?’ he said, pointing to the n that stood for never.
“这个词是什么？”他指着代表“从不”的 n 说道。

‘It means never,’ she said; ‘but that’s not true!’
“这意味着永远不会，”她说。 “但事实并非如此！”

He quickly rubbed out what he had written, gave her the chalk, and stood up. She wrote, t, i, c, n, a, d.
他飞快地擦掉了写下的东西，把粉笔递给她，然后站了起来。她写了t、i、c、n、a、d。

Dolly was completely comforted in the depression caused by her conversation with Alexey Alexandrovitch when she caught sight of the two figures: Kitty with the chalk in her hand, with a shy and happy smile looking upwards at Levin, and his handsome figure bending over the table with glowing eyes fastened one minute on the table and the next on her. He was suddenly radiant: he had understood. It meant, ‘Then I could not answer differently.’
当多莉看到两个人影时，她因与阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇谈话而产生的沮丧彻底得到了安慰：手里拿着粉笔的基蒂，带着害羞而幸福的微笑抬头看着莱文，而他英俊的身影弯腰在桌子上眼睛闪闪发亮，这一分钟盯着桌子，下一分钟就盯着她。他突然容光焕发：他明白了。这意味着，“那么我就无法做出不同的回答。”

He glanced at her questioningly, timidly.
他疑惑地、胆怯地看了她一眼。

‘Only then?’
“只有那时？”

‘Yes,’ her smile answered.
“是的，”她微笑着回答。

‘And n...and now?’ he asked.
“然后……现在呢？”他问道。

‘Well, read this. I’ll tell you what I should like—should like so much!’ she wrote the initial letters, i, y, c, f, a, f, w, h. This meant, ‘If you could forget and forgive what happened.’
‘好吧，读一下这个。我会告诉你我应该喜欢什么——非常喜欢！”她写下了最初的字母，i、y、c、f、a、f、w、h。这意味着，“如果你能忘记并原谅所发生的事情就好了。”

He snatched the chalk with nervous, trembling fingers, and breaking it, wrote the initial letters of the following phrase, ‘I have nothing to forget and to forgive; I have never ceased to love you.’
他用紧张、颤抖的手指抓起粉笔，把它折断，写下了下面这句话的首字母：“我没有什么可以忘记和原谅的；我没有什么可以忘记的，也没有什么可以原谅的。”我从未停止过爱你。

She glanced at him with a smile that did not waver.
她瞥了他一眼，笑容没有丝毫动摇。

‘I understand,’ she said in a whisper.
“我明白，”她低声说道。

He sat down and wrote a long phrase. She understood it all, and without asking him, ‘Is it this?’ took the chalk and at once answered.
他坐下来写了一个长句。她全都明白了，也没有问他“是这个吗？”拿起粉笔，立刻回答道。

For a long while he could not understand what she had written, and often looked into her eyes. He was stupefied with happiness. He could not supply the word she had meant; but in her charming eyes, beaming with happiness, he saw all he needed to know. And he wrote three letters. But he had hardly finished writing when she read them over her arm, and herself finished and wrote the answer, ‘Yes.’
有很长一段时间，他看不懂她写的东西，常常看着她的眼睛。他幸福得发呆。他无法说出她的意思。但在她迷人的眼睛里，闪烁着幸福的光芒，他看到了他需要知道的一切。他写了三封信。但他刚写完，她就在手臂上读完了这些内容，而她自己也写完了，写下了答案：“是的。”

‘You’re playing secretaire?’ said the old prince. ‘But we must really be getting along if you want to be in time at the theater.’
“你在扮演秘书吗？”老王子问道。 “但如果你想及时赶到剧院，我们就必须相处融洽。”

Levin got up and escorted Kitty to the door.
莱文起身，护送凯蒂到门口。

In their conversation everything had been said; it had been said that she loved him, and that she would tell her father and mother that he would come tomorrow morning.
在他们的谈话中，一切都已经说完了；据说她爱他，她会告诉她的父母，他明天早上会来。

Chapter 14
第14章

When Kitty had gone and Levin was left alone, he felt such uneasiness without her, and such an impatient longing to get as quickly, as quickly as possible, to tomorrow morning, when he would see her again and be plighted to her forever, that he felt afraid, as though of death, of those fourteen hours that he had to get through without her. It was essential for him to be with someone to talk to, so as not to be left alone, to kill time. Stepan Arkadyevitch would have been the companion most congenial to him, but he was going out, he said, to a soiree, in reality to the ballet. Levin only had time to tell him he was happy, and that he loved him, and would never, never forget what he had done for him. The eyes and the smile of Stepan Arkadyevitch showed Levin that he comprehended that feeling fittingly.
当基蒂走了，只剩下莱文一个人时，没有她，他感到如此不安，并且如此不耐烦地渴望尽快，尽可能快地到达明天早上，那时他会再次见到她并永远为她感到难过，以至于他感到害怕，就像害怕死亡一样，害怕自己必须在没有她的情况下度过这十四个小时。对他来说，有一个人可以说话是很重要的，这样他就不会一个人呆着，消磨时间。斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇本来是最适合他的同伴，但他说，他要出去参加晚会，实际上是去看芭蕾舞。莱文只来得及告诉他他很幸福，他爱他，永远不会忘记他为他所做的一切。斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇的眼睛和微笑表明，列文完全理解这种感觉。

‘Oh, so it’s not time to die yet?’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch, pressing Levin’s hand with emotion.
“哦，这么说还没有到死的时候吗？”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇激动地握着列文的手说道。

‘N-n-no!’ said Levin.
“不——不——不！”莱文说。

Darya Alexandrovna too, as she said good-bye to him, gave him a sort of congratulation, saying, ‘How glad I am you have met Kitty again! One must value old friends.’ Levin did not like these words of Darya Alexandrovna’s. She could not understand how lofty and beyond her it all was, and she ought not to have dared to allude to it. Levin said good-bye to them, but, not to be left alone, he attached himself to his brother.
达里娅·亚历山德罗芙娜在向他告别时，也向他表示祝贺，说道：“我很高兴你再次见到了基蒂！”一个人必须珍惜老朋友。”列文不喜欢达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜的这句话。她无法理解这一切是多么崇高和超出她的范围，她不应该敢提及它。莱文向他们道别，但为了不让他们孤单，他依偎在他的兄弟身边。

‘Where are you going?’
'你要去哪里？'

‘I’m going to a meeting.’
“我要去开会。”

‘Well, I’ll come with you. May I?’
‘好吧，我跟你一起去。我可以？'

‘What for? Yes, come along,’ said Sergey Ivanovitch, smiling. ‘What is the matter with you today?’
'做什么的？是的，一起来吧，”谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇微笑着说道。 “你今天怎么了？”

‘With me? Happiness is the matter with me!’ said Levin, letting down the window of the carriage they were driving in. ‘You don’t mind?—it’s so stifling. It’s happiness is the matter with me! Why is it you have never married?’
'与我一起？幸福就是我的事！”列文一边说着，一边摇下他们所乘坐的马车的车窗。“你不介意吗？——太令人窒息了。幸福是我的事！你为什么从未结婚？

Sergey Ivanovitch smiled.
谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇笑了。

‘I am very glad, she seems a nice gi...’ Sergey Ivanovitch was beginning.
“我很高兴，她看起来是个不错的士兵……”谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇开始说道。

‘Don’t say it! don’t say it!’ shouted Levin, clutching at the collar of his fur coat with both hands, and muffling him up in it. ‘She’s a nice girl’ were such simple, humble words, so out of harmony with his feeling.
‘别说了！别这么说！”列文喊道，双手抓住皮大衣的领子，把他裹在里面。 “她是个好女孩”，这句话是如此简单、谦虚，与他的感觉如此不协调。

Sergey Ivanovitch laughed outright a merry laugh, which was rare with him. ‘Well, anyway, I may say that I’m very glad of it.’
谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇爽朗地大笑起来，这对他来说是很少见的。 “好吧，无论如何，我可以说我对此感到非常高兴。”

‘That you may do tomorrow, tomorrow and nothing more! Nothing, nothing, silence,’ said Levin, and muffling him once more in his fur coat, he added: ‘I do like you so! Well, is it possible for me to be present at the meeting?’
‘你可以明天做，明天做，仅此而已！没什么，没什么，沉默，”列文说着，又用毛皮大衣捂住了他的嘴，补充道：“我真的很喜欢你！那么，我可以参加会议吗？

‘Of course it is.’
'当然如此。'

‘What is your discussion about today?’ asked Levin, never ceasing smiling.
“你们今天讨论什么？”莱文不停地微笑着问道。

They arrived at the meeting. Levin heard the secretary hesitatingly read the minutes which he obviously did not himself understand; but Levin saw from this secretary’s face what a good, nice, kind-hearted person he was. This was evident from his confusion and embarrassment in reading the minutes. Then the discussion began. They were disputing about the misappropriation of certain sums and the laying of certain pipes, and Sergey Ivanovitch was very cutting to two members, and said something at great length with an air of triumph; and another member, scribbling something on a bit of paper, began timidly at first, but afterwards answered him very viciously and delightfully. And then Sviazhsky (he was there too) said something too, very handsomely and nobly. Levin listened to them, and saw clearly that these missing sums and these pipes were not anything real, and that they were not at all angry, but were all the nicest, kindest people, and everything was as happy and charming as possible among them. They did no harm to anyone, and were all enjoying it. What struck Levin was that he could see through them all today, and from little, almost imperceptible signs knew the soul of each, and saw distinctly that they were all good at heart. And Levin himself in particular they were all extremely fond of that day. That was evident from the way they spoke to him, from the friendly, affectionate way even those he did not know looked at him.
他们到达了会议现场。莱文听到秘书犹豫地读着会议记录，显然他自己也听不懂；但莱文从这位秘书的脸上看出他是一个多么善良、善良的人。从他在阅读会议纪要时的困惑和尴尬就可以看出这一点。然后讨论开始了。他们正在就挪用某些款项和铺设某些管道的问题争论不休，谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇对两名成员非常尖刻，带着胜利的神气说了很多话。另一位成员则在一张纸上写着什么，一开始还很胆怯，但后来却非常恶毒而愉快地回答了他。然后斯维亚日斯基（他也在场）也说了些什么，非常英俊而高贵。莱文听着他们的话，清楚地看到这些缺失的金额和这些烟斗并不是什么真实的东西，他们一点也不生气，而是都是最友善、最善良的人，他们之间的一切都尽可能快乐和迷人。他们没有伤害任何人，而且都乐在其中。令莱文震惊的是，他今天能看穿他们所有人，从微小的、几乎难以察觉的迹象中知道每个人的灵魂，并清楚地看到他们都是心地善良的。尤其是莱文本人，他们都非常喜欢这一天。从他们对他说话的方式，从即使是他不认识的人也用友好、深情的目光看他的方式可以明显看出这一点。

‘Well, did you like it?’ Sergey Ivanovitch asked him.
“嗯，你喜欢吗？”谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇问他。

‘Very much. I never supposed it was so interesting! Capital! Splendid!’
'非常。我没想到这这么有趣！首都！灿烂！'

Sviazhsky went up to Levin and invited him to come round to tea with him. Levin was utterly at a loss to comprehend or recall what it was he had disliked in Sviazhsky, what he had failed to find in him. He was a clever and wonderfully good-hearted man.
斯维亚日斯基走到列文面前，邀请他过来和他一起喝茶。列文完全无法理解或回忆起他不喜欢斯维亚日斯基的什么，他在斯维亚日斯基身上找不到什么。他是一个聪明又非常善良的人。

‘Most delighted,’ he said, and asked after his wife and sister-in-law. And from a queer association of ideas, because in his imagination the idea of Sviazhsky’s sister-in-law was connected with marriage, it occurred to him that there was no one to whom he could more suitably speak of his happiness, and he was very glad to go and see them.
“非常高兴，”他说，并询问了他的妻子和嫂子的情况。出于一种奇怪的联想，因为在他的想象中，斯维亚日斯基的嫂子的想法与婚姻有关，他突然想到，没有人比他更适合谈论他的幸福，他非常高兴。很高兴去看他们。

Sviazhsky questioned him about his improvements on his estate, presupposing, as he always did, that there was no possibility of doing anything not done already in Europe, and now this did not in the least annoy Levin. On the contrary, he felt that Sviazhsky was right, that the whole business was of little value, and he saw the wonderful softness and consideration with which Sviazhsky avoided fully expressing his correct view. The ladies of the Sviazhsky household were particularly delightful. It seemed to Levin that they knew all about it already and sympathized with him, saying nothing merely from delicacy. He stayed with them one hour, two, three, talking of all sorts of subjects but the one thing that filled his heart, and did not observe that he was boring them dreadfully, and that it was long past their bedtime.
斯维亚日斯基向他询问了他对自己庄园的改善情况，他一如既往地假设，欧洲没有做过的事情是不可能做的，现在这并没有惹恼莱文。相反，他觉得斯维亚日斯基是对的，整个事情没有什么价值，他看到了斯维亚日斯基避免完全表达他的正确观点时表现出的美妙的温柔和考虑。斯维亚日斯基家的女士们尤其令人愉快。在莱文看来，他们已经知道了这一切，并且同情他，只是出于体贴才什么也没说。他和他们待了一个小时、两个小时、三个小时，谈论各种各样的话题，但只有一件事充满了他的心，并没有注意到他让他们感到无聊透顶，而且已经过了他们的就寝时间了。

Sviazhsky went with him into the hall, yawning and wondering at the strange humor his friend was in. It was past one o’clock. Levin went back to his hotel, and was dismayed at the thought that all alone now with his impatience he had ten hours still left to get through. The servant, whose turn it was to be up all night, lighted his candles, and would have gone away, but Levin stopped him. This servant, Yegor, whom Levin had noticed before, struck him as a very intelligent, excellent, and, above all, good-hearted man.
斯维亚日斯基和他一起走进大厅，打着哈欠，对他朋友的奇怪幽默感到好奇。当时已经一点点多了。莱文回到旅馆，一想到现在只剩下十个小时了，加上他的不耐烦，他感到很沮丧。轮到他彻夜不眠的仆人点燃了蜡烛，想要走开，但莱文阻止了他。这位仆人，名叫叶戈尔，列文以前就注意到了，他觉得他是一个非常聪明、优秀、最重要的是心地善良的人。

‘Well, Yegor, it’s hard work not sleeping, isn’t it?’
“嗯，叶戈尔，不睡觉很辛苦，不是吗？”

‘One’s got to put up with it! It’s part of our work, you see. In a gentleman’s house it’s easier; but then here one makes more.’
‘一个人必须忍受它！你看，这是我们工作的一部分。在绅士家里，这比较容易；但在这里，人们赚得更多。”

It appeared that Yegor had a family, three boys and a daughter, a sempstress, whom he wanted to marry to a cashier in a saddler’s shop.
叶戈尔似乎有一个家庭，三个男孩和一个女儿，还有一名女裁缝，他想把她嫁给一家马具店的收银员。

Levin, on hearing this, informed Yegor that, in his opinion, in marriage the great thing was love, and that with love one would always be happy, for happiness rests only on oneself. Yegor listened attentively, and obviously quite took in Levin’s idea, but by way of assent to it he enunciated, greatly to Levin’s surprise, the observation that when he had lived with good masters he had always been satisfied with his masters, and now was perfectly satisfied with his employer, though he was a Frenchman.
莱文听后告诉叶戈尔，在他看来，婚姻中最伟大的是爱情，有了爱情，一个人就会永远幸福，因为幸福只取决于自己。叶戈尔聚精会神地听着，显然完全接受了列文的想法，但他在表示同意的同时，还阐明了这一点，令列文大吃一惊的是，他观察到，当他和好主人一起生活时，他总是对他的主人感到满意，而现在他完全满意了。尽管他是法国人，但他对雇主很满意。

‘Wonderfully good-hearted fellow!’ thought Levin.
“真是个心地善良的家伙！”莱文想。

‘Well, but you yourself, Yegor, when you got married, did you love your wife?’
“好吧，但是你自己，叶戈尔，当你结婚时，你爱你的妻子吗？”

‘Ay! and why not?’ responded Yegor.
‘哎呀！为什么不呢？”叶戈尔回答道。

And Levin saw that Yegor too was in an excited state and intending to express all his most heartfelt emotions.
而莱文则看到叶戈尔也处于激动的状态，想要将自己最衷心的情感都表达出来。

‘My life, too, has been a wonderful one. From a child up...’ he was beginning with flashing eyes, apparently catching Levin’s enthusiasm, just as people catch yawning.
“我的生活也很精彩。从孩子起……”他开始时眼睛闪闪发亮，显然捕捉到了莱文的热情，就像人们捕捉到打哈欠一样。

But at that moment a ring was heard. Yegor departed, and Levin was left alone. He had eaten scarcely anything at dinner, had refused tea and supper at Sviazhsky’s, but he was incapable of thinking of supper. He had not slept the previous night, but was incapable of thinking of sleep either. His room was cold, but he was oppressed by heat. He opened both the movable panes in his window and sat down to the table opposite the open panes. Over the snow-covered roofs could be seen a decorated cross with chains, and above it the rising triangle of Charles’s Wain with the yellowish light of Capella. He gazed at the cross, then at the stars, drank in the fresh freezing air that flowed evenly into the room, and followed as though in a dream the images and memories that rose in his imagination. At four o’clock he heard steps in the passage and peeped out at the door. It was the gambler Myaskin, whom he knew, coming from the club. He walked gloomily, frowning and coughing. ‘Poor, unlucky fellow!’ thought Levin, and tears came into his eyes from love and pity for this man. He would have talked with him, and tried to comfort him, but remembering that he had nothing but his shirt on, he changed his mind and sat down again at the open pane to bathe in the cold air and gaze at the exquisite lines of the cross, silent, but full of meaning for him, and the mounting lurid yellow star. At seven o’clock there was a noise of people polishing the floors, and bells ringing in some servants’ department, and Levin felt that he was beginning to get frozen. He closed the pane, washed, dressed, and went out into the street.
但就在这时，响起了铃声。叶戈尔走了，只剩下莱文一个人。晚餐时他几乎没吃任何东西，拒绝在斯维亚日斯基家喝茶和吃晚饭，但他无法想到晚饭。前一天晚上他没有睡觉，但也无法思考睡觉的事。他的房间很冷，但他却被炎热所压迫。他打开了窗户上的两块可移动的玻璃，然后坐在打开的玻璃对面的桌子旁。在白雪覆盖的屋顶上，可以看到一个装饰着链子的十字架，上面是查尔斯车的上升三角形，上面有卡佩拉的黄色光芒。他凝视着十字架，然后凝视着星星，呼吸着均匀地流入房间的新鲜冰冷的空气，仿佛在梦中一样追随着他想象中升起的图像和记忆。四点钟的时候，他听到过道里有脚步声，就向门口望去。那是他认识的来自俱乐部的赌徒米亚斯金。他闷闷不乐地走着，皱着眉头，咳嗽着。 “可怜的、不幸的家伙！”列文心想，由于对这个人的爱和怜悯，他的眼里涌出了泪水。他本来想和他谈谈，试图安慰他，但想起自己除了衬衫什么也没穿，他改变了主意，又在敞开的窗子前坐下来，沐浴着冰冷的空气，凝视着窗外精美的线条。十字架，沉默，但对他来说充满意义，还有那颗越来越亮的黄色星星。七点钟，传来人们擦地板的声音，一些仆人的房间里响起了铃声，莱文感觉自己开始冻僵了。他关上窗玻璃，洗漱、穿好衣服，然后走到街上。

Chapter 15
第15章

The streets were still empty. Levin went to the house of the Shtcherbatskys. The visitors’ doors were closed and everything was asleep. He walked back, went into his room again, and asked for coffee. The day servant, not Yegor this time, brought it to him. Levin would have entered into conversation with him, but a bell rang for the servant, and he went out. Levin tried to drink coffee and put some roll in his mouth, but his mouth was quite at a loss what to do with the roll. Levin, rejecting the roll, put on his coat and went out again for a walk. It was nine o’clock when he reached the Shtcherbatskys’ steps the second time. In the house they were only just up, and the cook came out to go marketing. He had to get through at least two hours more.
街道上依然空无一人。莱文去了谢尔巴茨基一家。来访者的门紧闭，一切都在沉睡。他走回来，再次走进自己的房间，要了咖啡。是白天的仆人，这次不是叶戈尔，把它交给了他。莱文本想和他交谈，但仆人的铃声响起，他就出去了。莱文试着喝咖啡，并把一些面包卷放进嘴里，但他的嘴却完全不知道该拿面包卷做什么。莱文拒绝了这卷面包，穿上外套，又出去散步了。当他第二次到达谢尔巴茨基家的台阶时，已经是九点钟了。屋里他们才刚起床，厨师就出来推销了。他至少还得熬过两个小时。

All that night and morning Levin lived perfectly unconsciously, and felt perfectly lifted out of the conditions of material life. He had eaten nothing for a whole day, he had not slept for two nights, had spent several hours undressed in the frozen air, and felt not simply fresher and stronger than ever, but felt utterly independent of his body; he moved without muscular effort, and felt as if he could do anything. He was convinced he could fly upwards or lift the corner of the house, if need be. He spent the remainder of the time in the street, incessantly looking at his watch and gazing about him.
整个晚上和早上，莱文完全无意识地生活着，感觉完全脱离了物质生活的条件。他一整天没有吃任何东西，两个晚上没有睡觉，在冰冷的空气中脱了衣服好几个小时，不仅感觉比以前更清新、更强壮，而且感觉完全独立于自己的身体；他的动作毫不费力，感觉好像他能做任何事。他确信如果需要的话，他可以向上飞，或者抬起房子的一角。剩下的时间他都在街上度过，不停地看表，环顾四周。

And what he saw then, he never saw again after. The children especially going to school, the bluish doves flying down from the roofs to the pavement, and the little loaves covered with flour, thrust out by an unseen hand, touched him. Those loaves, those doves, and those two boys were not earthly creatures. It all happened at the same time: a boy ran towards a dove and glanced smiling at Levin; the dove, with a whir of her wings, darted away, flashing in the sun, amid grains of snow that quivered in the air, while from a little window there came a smell of fresh-baked bread, and the loaves were put out. All of this together was so extraordinarily nice that Levin laughed and cried with delight. Going a long way round by Gazetny Place and Kislovka, he went back again to the hotel, and putting his watch before him, he sat down to wait for twelve o’clock. In the next room they were talking about some sort of machines, and swindling, and coughing their morning coughs. They did not realize that the hand was near twelve. The hand reached it. Levin went out onto the steps. The sledge-drivers clearly knew all about it. They crowded round Levin with happy faces, quarreling among themselves, and offering their services. Trying not to offend the other sledge drivers, and promising to drive with them too, Levin took one and told him to drive to the Shtcherbatskys’. The sledge-driver was splendid in a white shirt-collar sticking out over his overcoat and into his strong, full-blooded red neck. The sledge was high and comfortable, and altogether such a one as Levin never drove in after, and the horse was a good one, and tried to gallop but didn’t seem to move. The driver knew the Shtcherbatskys’ house, and drew up at the entrance with a curve of his arm and a ‘Wo!’ especially indicative of respect for his fare. The Shtcherbatskys’ hall-porter certainly knew all about it. This was evident from the smile in his eyes and the way he said:
而他当时所看到的，此后他再也没有看到过。孩子们特别去上学，蓝色的鸽子从屋顶飞到人行道上，覆盖着面粉的小面包被一只看不见的手推出来，触摸着他。那些面包、那些鸽子和那两个男孩都不是地球上的生物。这一切都同时发生：一个男孩跑向一只鸽子，微笑地看了莱文一眼；鸽子一扇翅膀，飞走了，在阳光下闪闪发光，在空气中颤抖的雪粒中，同时从一个小窗户里传来了新鲜出炉的面包的气味，面包被拿出来了。所有这一切加在一起真是太美好了，莱文高兴得又笑又哭。绕过公报广场和基斯洛夫卡，他又回到旅馆，把表放在面前，坐下来等待十二点。在隔壁房间里，他们正在谈论某种机器、诈骗，并咳嗽着早晨的咳嗽声。他们没有意识到手已经接近十二点了。手伸到了那里。莱文走到台阶上。雪橇车夫显然知道这一切。他们满脸幸福地围在莱文周围，互相争吵，并提供服务。为了不冒犯其他雪橇司机，并答应也和他们一起开车，莱文拿了一辆，让他开车去谢尔巴茨基家。雪橇车夫穿着一件白色的衬衫领子，衬衫领子从大衣外面伸出来，一直延伸到他强壮的、鲜红的脖子上，非常漂亮。雪橇又高又舒服，莱文从来没有驾过这样的雪橇，而且那匹马是一匹好马，它试图驰骋，但似乎一动不动。司机认识谢尔巴茨基家的房子，在入口处停下来，手臂一弯，“哇！”’特别表明了对他的票价的尊重。谢尔巴茨基一家的门房当然知道这一切。 从他眼中的笑容和他说话的方式就可以看出这一点：

‘Well, it’s a long while since you’ve been to see us, Konstantin Demitrievitch!’
“好吧，康斯坦丁·德米特里耶维奇，你已经很久没有来看我们了！”

Not only he knew all about it, but he was unmistakably delighted and making efforts to conceal his joy. Looking into his kindly old eyes, Levin realized even something new in his happiness.
他不仅知道这一切，而且明显很高兴，并努力掩饰自己的喜悦。看着他那双慈祥的老眼睛，莱文甚至在他的幸福中发现了一些新的东西。

‘Are they up?’
“他们起来了吗？”

‘Pray walk in! Leave it here,’ said he, smiling, as Levin would have come back to take his hat. That meant something.
‘请进来吧！把它留在这里，”他微笑着说，因为莱文会回来拿他的帽子。这意味着什么。

‘To whom shall I announce your honor?’ asked the footman.
“我该向谁宣布您的荣誉呢？”仆人问道。

The footman, though a young man, and one of the new school of footmen, a dandy, was a very kind-hearted, good fellow, and he too knew all about it.
男仆虽然是个年轻人，而且是新派男仆中的一员，是个花花公子，但他却是一个心地善良的好人，他也知道这一点。

‘The princess...the prince...the young princess...’ said Levin.
“公主……王子……年轻的公主……”莱文说。

The first person he saw was Mademoiselle Linon. She walked across the room, and her ringlets and her face were beaming. He had only just spoken to her, when suddenly he heard the rustle of a skirt at the door, and Mademoiselle Linon vanished from Levin’s eyes, and a joyful terror came over him at the nearness of his happiness. Mademoiselle Linon was in great haste, and leaving him, went out at the other door. Directly she had gone out, swift, swift light steps sounded on the parquet, and his bliss, his life, himself—what was best in himself, what he had so long sought and longed for—was quickly, so quickly approaching him. She did not walk, but seemed, by some unseen force, to float to him. He saw nothing but her clear, truthful eyes, frightened by the same bliss of love that flooded his heart. Those eyes were shining nearer and nearer, blinding him with their light of love. She stopped still close to him, touching him. Her hands rose and dropped onto his shoulders.
他见到的第一个人是利农小姐。她走过房间，她的卷发和脸上都洋溢着笑容。他刚刚跟她说话，突然听到门口传来裙子的窸窸窣窣的声音，利农小姐从列文的眼前消失了，他的幸福临近了，一种喜悦的恐惧袭上心头。利农小姐急忙离开他，从另一扇门出去了。她刚一出门，地板上就响起了轻快的脚步声，他的幸福，他的生活，他自己——他自己最好的东西，他长久以来所寻求和渴望的东西——正在快速、快速地向他逼近。她没有走，但似乎通过某种看不见的力量飘到了他身边。他只看到她清澈、真实的眼睛，他的心被同样的爱的幸福所惊吓。那双眼睛越来越近，闪烁着爱意的光芒，让他目眩。她停了下来，仍然靠近他，抚摸着他。她的双手抬起，落在他的肩膀上。

She had done all she could—she had run up to him and given herself up entirely, shy and happy. He put his arms round her and pressed his lips to her mouth that sought his kiss.
她已经做了她能做的一切——她跑向他，完全放弃了自己，害羞而快乐。他用双臂搂住她，将嘴唇压在她寻求他亲吻的嘴上。

She too had not slept all night, and had been expecting him all the morning.
她也一夜没睡，整个早上都在等他。

Her mother and father had consented without demur, and were happy in her happiness. She had been waiting for him. She wanted to be the first to tell him her happiness and his. She had got ready to see him alone, and had been delighted at the idea, and had been shy and ashamed, and did not know herself what she was doing. She had heard his steps and voice, and had waited at the door for Mademoiselle Linon to go. Mademoiselle Linon had gone away. Without thinking, without asking herself how and what, she had gone up to him, and did as she was doing.
父母二人二话不说就答应了，也为她的幸福感到高兴。她一直在等他。她想成为第一个告诉他她和他的幸福的人。她已经准备好单独见他了，对这个想法感到很高兴，但又害羞又羞愧，不知道自己在做什么。她听到了他的脚步声和声音，就在门口等着利农小姐走。利农小姐已经走了。她没有多想，也没有问自己如何、做什么，就走到了他面前，照她现在做的那样做了。

‘Let us go to mamma!’ she said, taking him by the hand. For a long while he could say nothing, not so much because he was afraid of desecrating the loftiness of his emotion by a word, as that every time he tried to say something, instead of words he felt that tears of happiness were welling up. He took her hand and kissed it.
“我们去找妈妈吧！”她拉着他的手说道。有很长一段时间他什么话也说不出来，倒不是因为害怕一句话亵渎了自己崇高的情感，而是每次他想说些什么的时候，他都感到幸福的泪水而不是言语。他握住她的手并亲吻它。

‘Can it be true?’ he said at last in a choked voice. ‘I can’t believe you love me, dear!’
“这是真的吗？”他最后用哽咽的声音说道。 “我不敢相信你爱我，亲爱的！”

She smiled at that ‘dear,’ and at the timidity with which he glanced at her.
她对那个“亲爱的”微笑，对他看她时胆怯的眼神微笑。

‘Yes!’ she said significantly, deliberately. ‘I am so happy!’
“是的！”她意味深长、故意地说。 '我太高兴了！'

Not letting go his hands, she went into the drawing room. The princess, seeing them, breathed quickly, and immediately began to cry and then immediately began to laugh, and with a vigorous step Levin had not expected, ran up to him, and hugging his head, kissed him, wetting his cheeks with her tears.
她没有放开他的手，走进了客厅。公主看到他们，呼吸急促，立刻哭了起来，然后又大笑起来，迈着列文意想不到的有力步伐，跑到他身边，抱住他的头，吻了他，用泪水沾湿了他的脸颊。 。

‘So it is all settled! I am glad. Love her. I am glad.... Kitty!’
‘这么说来，一切都已经解决了！我很高兴。爱她。我很高兴……基蒂！

‘You’ve not been long settling things,’ said the old prince, trying to seem unmoved; but Levin noticed that his eyes were wet when he turned to him.
“你解决事情的时间不长，”老王子说道，试图表现出不为所动的样子。但莱文发现当他转向他时，他的眼睛湿润了。

‘I’ve long, always wished for this!’ said the prince, taking Levin by the arm and drawing him towards himself. ‘Even when this little feather-head fancied...’
“我一直以来都希望如此！”王子说道，抓住了莱文的手臂，把他拉向自己。 “即使这个小羽头幻想……”

‘Papa!’ shrieked Kitty, and shut his mouth with her hands.
“爸爸！”凯蒂尖叫着，用手捂住了他的嘴。

‘Well, I won’t!’ he said. ‘I’m very, very ...plea ...Oh, what a fool I am...’
“好吧，我不会！”他说。 “我非常非常……求求……哦，我真是个傻瓜……”

He embraced Kitty, kissed her face, her hand, her face again, and made the sign of the cross over her.
他拥抱凯蒂，再次亲吻她的脸、她的手、她的脸，并在她身上画了十字。

And there came over Levin a new feeling of love for this man, till then so little known to him, when he saw how slowly and tenderly Kitty kissed his muscular hand.
当莱文看到基蒂缓慢而温柔地亲吻他肌肉发达的手时，他对这个男人产生了一种新的爱的感觉，直到那时他才意识到。

Chapter 16
第16章

The princess sat in her armchair, silent and smiling; the prince sat down beside her. Kitty stood by her father’s chair, still holding his hand. All were silent.
公主坐在扶手椅上，沉默而微笑。王子在她身边坐下。基蒂站在她父亲的椅子旁，仍然握着他的手。所有人都沉默了。

The princess was the first to put everything into words, and to translate all thoughts and feelings into practical questions. And all equally felt this strange and painful for the first minute.
公主第一个把一切都用语言表达出来，并将所有的想法和感受转化为实际的问题。在第一分钟，所有人都同样感到这种奇怪和痛苦。

‘When is it to be? We must have the benediction and announcement. And when’s the wedding to be? What do you think, Alexander?’
‘什么时候呢？我们必须有祝福和宣告。婚礼什么时候举行？你觉得怎么样，亚历山大？

‘Here he is,’ said the old prince, pointing to Levin—‘he’s the principal person in the matter.’
“他来了，”老公爵指着莱文说道，“他是这件事的主要人物。”

‘When?’ said Levin blushing. ‘Tomorrow; If you ask me, I should say, the benediction today and the wedding tomorrow.’
“什么时候？”莱文红着脸说道。 '明天;如果你问我，我会说，今天的祝福，明天的婚礼。

‘Come, mon cher, that’s nonsense!’
“得了吧，亲爱的，那是胡说八道！”

‘Well, in a week.’
“嗯，一周后。”

‘He’s quite mad.’
“他很生气。”

‘No, why so?’
“不，为什么会这样呢？”

‘Well, upon my word!’ said the mother, smiling, delighted at this haste. ‘How about the trousseau?’
“好吧，我保证！”母亲微笑着说，对这种匆忙感到高兴。 “嫁妆怎么样？”

‘Will there really be a trousseau and all that?’ Levin thought with horror. ‘But can the trousseau and the benediction and all that—can it spoil my happiness? Nothing can spoil it!’ He glanced at Kitty, and noticed that she was not in the least, not in the very least, disturbed by the idea of the trousseau. ‘Then it must be all right,’ he thought.
“真的会有嫁妆之类的东西吗？”莱文惊恐地想。 “但是嫁妆、祝福之类的东西——会破坏我的幸福吗？”没有什么可以破坏它！”他看了凯蒂一眼，发现她一点儿也没有因为嫁妆的想法而感到不安。 “那么一定没问题了，”他想。

‘Oh, I know nothing about it; I only said what I should like,’ he said apologetically.
‘噢，我对此一无所知；我只说了我应该喜欢的话，”他抱歉地说。

‘We’ll talk it over, then. The benediction and announcement can take place now. That’s very well.’
‘那么我们再商量一下。祝福和宣布现在就可以进行。那就太好了。

The princess went up to her husband, kissed him, and would have gone away, but he kept her, embraced her, and, tenderly as a young lover, kissed her several times, smiling. The old people were obviously muddled for a moment, and did not quite know whether it was they who were in love again or their daughter. When the prince and the princess had gone, Levin went up to his betrothed and took her hand. He was self-possessed now and could speak, and he had a great deal he wanted to tell her. But he said not at all what he had to say.
公主走向她的丈夫，吻了他，然后就走开了，但他留住了她，拥抱了她，并且像年轻情人一样温柔地吻了她好几次，微笑着。老人们显然一时糊涂了，不太知道重新恋爱的到底是他们自己，还是他们的女儿。王子和公主走后，列文走向他的未婚夫，握住她的手。他现在很镇定，可以说话了，而且他有很多话想告诉她。但他根本没有说出他要说的话。

‘How I knew it would be so! I never hoped for it; and yet in my heart I was always sure,’ he said. ‘I believe that it was ordained.’
‘我怎么知道会这样！我从来没有希望过；但我心里一直很确定，”他说。 “我相信这是注定的。”

‘And I!’ she said. ‘Even when....’ She stopped and went on again, looking at him resolutely with her truthful eyes, ‘Even when I thrust from me my happiness. I always loved you alone, but I was carried away. I ought to tell you.... Can you forgive that?’
“还有我！”她说。 “即使……”她停了下来，又继续说下去，用她真诚的眼睛坚定地看着他，“即使我把幸福从自己身边推开。”我一直只爱你一个人，但我却失魂落魄。我应该告诉你……你能原谅吗？

‘Perhaps it was for the best. You will have to forgive me so much. I ought to tell you...’
'也许这是最好的结果。你一定要原谅我。我应该告诉你……”

This was one of the things he had meant to speak about. He had resolved from the first to tell her two things—that he was not chaste as she was, and that he was not a believer. It was agonizing, but he considered he ought to tell her both these facts.
这是他想要谈论的事情之一。他从一开始就决定告诉她两件事——他不像她那样贞洁，而且他不是信徒。这很痛苦，但他认为他应该告诉她这两个事实。

‘No, not now, later!’ he said.
“不，不是现在，是以后！”他说。

‘Very well, later, but you must certainly tell me. I’m not afraid of anything. I want to know everything. Now it is settled.’
“很好，稍后再说，但你一定要告诉我。我什么都不怕。我想知道一切。现在事情已经解决了。”

He added: ‘Settled that you’ll take me whatever I may be—you won’t give me up? Yes?’
他补充道：“你决定不管我是什么样的人，你都会接受我——你不会放弃我吗？”是的？'

‘Yes, yes.’
'是的是的。'

Their conversation was interrupted by Mademoiselle Linon, who with an affected but tender smile came to congratulate her favorite pupil. Before she had gone, the servants came in with their congratulations. Then relations arrived, and there began that state of blissful absurdity from which Levin did not emerge till the day after his wedding. Levin was in a continual state of awkwardness and discomfort, but the intensity of his happiness went on all the while increasing. He felt continually that a great deal was being expected of him—what, he did not know; and he did everything he was told, and it all gave him happiness. He had thought his engagement would have nothing about it like others, that the ordinary conditions of engaged couples would spoil his special happiness; but it ended in his doing exactly as other people did, and his happiness being only increased thereby and becoming more and more special, more and more unlike anything that had ever happened.
他们的谈话被利农小姐打断了，她带着做作但温柔的微笑过来祝贺她最喜欢的学生。她还没走，仆人就进来祝贺。然后亲戚们来了，一种幸福的荒谬状态开始了，莱文直到结婚后的第二天才摆脱这种状态。莱文一直处于一种尴尬和不舒服的状态，但他的幸福感却在不断增强。他不断地感觉到人们对他寄予了很大的期望——什么，他不知道；什么？他按照吩咐去做了一切，这一切都给他带来了快乐。他原以为他的订婚不会像其他人那样有什么意义，订婚夫妇的普通条件会破坏他特殊的幸福；但最终他的所作所为与其他人一模一样，他的幸福感也因此而增加，变得越来越特别，越来越不像以前发生过的任何事情。

‘Now we shall have sweetmeats to eat,’ said Mademoiselle Linon— and Levin drove off to buy sweetmeats.
“现在我们可以吃甜食了，”利农小姐说道。然后莱文就开车去买甜食了。

‘Well, I’m very glad,’ said Sviazhsky. ‘I advise you to get the bouquets from Fomin’s.’
“嗯，我很高兴，”斯维亚日斯基说。 “我建议你去福明家拿花束。”

‘Oh, are they wanted?’ And he drove to Fomin’s.
“哦，有人想要他们吗？”然后他开车去了福明家。

His brother offered to lend him money, as he would have so many expenses, presents to give....
他的哥哥提出借钱给他，因为他要花很多钱，要送很多礼物……

‘Oh, are presents wanted?’ And he galloped to Foulde’s.
“哦，需要礼物吗？”他飞奔到福尔德家。

And at the confectioner’s, and at Fomin’s, and at Foulde’s he saw that he was expected; that they were pleased to see him, and prided themselves on his happiness, just as every one whom he had to do with during those days. What was extraordinary was that everyone not only liked him, but even people previously unsympathetic, cold, and callous, were enthusiastic over him, gave way to him in everything, treated his feeling with tenderness and delicacy, and shared his conviction that he was the happiest man in the world because his betrothed was beyond perfection. Kitty too felt the same thing. When Countess Nordston ventured to hint that she had hoped for something better, Kitty was so angry and proved so conclusively that nothing in the world could be better than Levin, that Countess Nordston had to admit it, and in Kitty’s presence never met Levin without a smile of ecstatic admiration.
在糖果店、福明店和富尔德店，他发现有人在等他。他们很高兴见到他，并为他的幸福感到自豪，就像那些日子里与他打过交道的每个人一样。了不起的是，大家不但喜欢他，就连以前冷酷无情的人，也对他热情起来，凡事都让着他，温柔细腻地对待他的感情，和他一样坚信自己是世界上最好的人。世界上最幸福的人，因为他的未婚夫是完美的。基蒂也有同样的感觉。当诺德斯顿伯爵夫人大胆暗示她希望有更好的东西时，基蒂非常生气，并如此明确地证明世界上没有什么比莱文更好的了，诺德斯顿伯爵夫人不得不承认这一点，在基蒂面前，每次见到莱文都会有一种不愉快的感觉。欣喜若狂的钦佩微笑。

The confession he had promised was the one painful incident of this time. He consulted the old prince, and with his sanction gave Kitty his diary, in which there was written the confession that tortured him. He had written this diary at the time with a view to his future wife. Two things caused him anguish: his lack of purity and his lack of faith. His confession of unbelief passed unnoticed. She was religious, had never doubted the truths of religion, but his external unbelief did not affect her in the least. Through love she knew all his soul, and in his soul she saw what she wanted, and that such a state of soul should be called unbelieving was to her a matter of no account. The other confession set her weeping bitterly.
他所承诺的坦白是这一次最痛苦的一件事。他咨询了老王子，并在他的同意下给了基蒂他的日记，其中写着他遭受酷刑的供词。他当时写这本日记是为了他未来的妻子。有两件事让他痛苦：他缺乏纯洁，他缺乏信仰。他对不信的承认没有引起注意。她信教，从来没有怀疑过宗教的真理，但他表面上的不信对她没有丝毫影响。通过爱，她了解他的全部灵魂，在他的灵魂中，她看到了她想要的东西，这种灵魂状态应该被称为不信，对她来说是无关紧要的。另一次的坦白让她痛哭流涕。

Levin, not without an inner struggle, handed her his diary. He knew that between him and her there could not be, and should not be, secrets, and so he had decided that so it must be. But he had not realized what an effect it would have on her, he had not put himself in her place. It was only when the same evening he came to their house before the theater, went into her room and saw her tear-stained, pitiful, sweet face, miserable with suffering he had caused and nothing could undo, he felt the abyss that separated his shameful past from her dovelike purity, and was appalled at what he had done.
莱文内心不乏挣扎，把他的日记递给了她。他知道他和她之间不可能也不应该有秘密，所以他决定必须如此。但他没有意识到这会对她产生多大的影响，他没有设身处地为她着想。直到那天晚上，他来到戏院前的家，走进她的房间，看到她那张泪痕斑斑、可怜又可爱的脸，因他所造成的痛苦而无可挽回的痛苦时，他才感到与他之间的鸿沟。她对自己鸽子般纯洁的耻辱过去感到震惊，并对他的所作所为感到震惊。

‘Take them, take these dreadful books!’ she said, pushing away the notebooks lying before her on the table. ‘Why did you give them me? No, it was better anyway,’ she added, touched by his despairing face. ‘But it’s awful, awful!’
“拿走它们，拿走这些可怕的书！”她一边说，一边推开面前桌子上的笔记本。 ‘你为什么把它们给我？不，无论如何，这样更好。”她补充道，被他绝望的脸感动了。 “但这太糟糕了，太糟糕了！”

His head sank, and he was silent. He could say nothing.
他的头沉了下去，沉默了。他什么也说不出来。

‘You can’t forgive me,’ he whispered.
“你不能原谅我，”他低声说道。

‘Yes, I forgive you; but it’s terrible!’
‘是的，我原谅你；但这太可怕了！

But his happiness was so immense that this confession did not shatter it, it only added another shade to it. She forgave him; but from that time more than ever he considered himself unworthy of her, morally bowed down lower than ever before her, and prized more highly than ever his undeserved happiness.
但他的幸福是如此巨大，以至于这个坦白并没有粉碎他的幸福，反而给他增添了一层阴影。她原谅了他；但从那时起，他比以往任何时候都更加认为自己配不上她，在道德上比以往任何时候都更加屈服于她，并且比以往任何时候都更加珍视自己不应得的幸福。

Chapter 17
第17章

Unconsciously going over in his memory the conversations that had taken place during and after dinner, Alexey Alexandrovitch returned to his solitary room. Darya Alexandrovna’s words about forgiveness had aroused in him nothing but annoyance. The applicability or non-applicability of the Christian precept to his own case was too difficult a question to be discussed lightly, and this question had long ago been answered by Alexey Alexandrovitch in the negative. Of all that had been said, what stuck most in his memory was the phrase of stupid, good-natured Turovtsin—‘Acted like a man, he did! Called him out and shot him!’ Everyone had apparently shared this feeling, though from politeness they had not expressed it.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇无意识地回忆起晚饭期间和晚饭后发生的谈话，然后回到了他单独的房间。达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜关于宽恕的话只让他感到恼火。基督教的戒律是否适用于他自己的情况，是一个很难轻易讨论的问题，而这个问题早已被阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇否定了。在所有这些话中，他记忆最深的是愚蠢而善良的图罗夫钦的那句话：“他表现得像个男人，他做到了！”把他叫出来，开枪打死他！”每个人显然都有这样的感觉，但出于礼貌他们没有表达出来。

‘But the matter is settled, it’s useless thinking about it,’ Alexey Alexandrovitch told himself. And thinking of nothing but the journey before him, and the revision work he had to do, he went into his room and asked the porter who escorted him where his man was. The porter said that the man had only just gone out. Alexey Alexandrovitch ordered tea to be sent him, sat down to the table, and taking the guidebook, began considering the route of his journey.
“但是事情已经解决了，想这些是没有用的，”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇告诉自己。他脑子里只想着眼前的旅程和必须要做的复习工作，于是走进自己的房间，询问护送他的搬运工，他的人在哪里。门房说，该男子刚刚出去。阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇吩咐给他送茶，坐在桌边，拿起旅游指南，开始考虑自己的旅程路线。

‘Two telegrams,’ said his manservant, coming into the room. ‘I beg your pardon, your excellency; I’d only just that minute gone out.’
“两封电报，”他的男仆走进房间说道。 “请您原谅，阁下；我只出去了一分钟。

Alexey Alexandrovitch took the telegrams and opened them. The first telegram was the announcement of Stremov’s appointment to the very post Karenin had coveted. Alexey Alexandrovitch flung the telegram down, and flushing a little, got up and began to pace up and down the room. ‘Quos vult perdere dementat,’ he said, meaning by quos the persons responsible for this appointment. He was not so much annoyed that he had not received the post, that he had been conspicuously passed over; but it was incomprehensible, amazing to him that they did not see that the wordy phrase-monger Stremov was the last man fit for it. How could they fail to see how they were ruining themselves, lowering their prestige by this appointment?
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇接过电报并打开。第一份电报宣布斯特列莫夫被任命为卡列宁梦寐以求的职位。阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇把电报扔了下来，脸红了一点，站起来，开始在房间里来回踱步。他说：“Quos vult perdere dementat”，意思是负责这项任命的人。他并没有因为没有收到这个职位而感到恼火，而是因为他被明显地忽视了。但令人费解的是，令他惊讶的是，他们竟然没有发现爱说空话的斯特列莫夫是最不适合做这件事的人。他们怎么可能看不到，这次任命是在毁掉自己，降低自己的威望呢？

‘Something else in the same line,’ he said to himself bitterly, opening the second telegram. The telegram was from his wife. Her name, written in blue pencil, ‘Anna,’ was the first thing that caught his eye. ‘I am dying; I beg, I implore you to come. I shall die easier with your forgiveness,’ he read. He smiled contemptuously, and flung down the telegram. That this was a trick and a fraud, of that, he thought for the first minute, there could be no doubt.
“还有同样的事情，”他痛苦地对自己说，打开了第二封电报。电报是他妻子发来的。她的名字是用蓝色铅笔写的，“安娜”，这是引起他注意的第一件事。 '我快死了;我求求你，我恳求你来。有了你的宽恕，我会死得更轻松。”他读道。他轻蔑地笑了笑，把电报扔了下来。他第一分钟就想，这是一个诡计和骗局，这是毫无疑问的。

‘There is no deceit she would stick at. She was near her confinement. Perhaps it is the confinement. But what can be their aim? To legitimize the child, to compromise me, and prevent a divorce,’ he thought. ‘But something was said in it: I am dying....’ He read the telegram again, and suddenly the plain meaning of what was said in it struck him.
“她不会坚持任何欺骗。”她已经快要被监禁了。也许这就是禁闭吧。但他们的目标是什么？为了使孩子合法化，为了妥协我，并防止离婚，”他想。 “但是电报中说了些什么：我快死了……”他又读了一遍电报，突然间他明白了电报中所说内容的简单含义。

‘And if it is true?’ he said to himself. ‘If it is true that in the moment of agony and nearness to death she is genuinely penitent, and I, taking it for a trick, refuse to go? That would not only be cruel, and everyone would blame me, but it would be stupid on my part.’
“如果这是真的呢？”他自言自语道。 “如果她真的在痛苦和濒临死亡的时刻真心忏悔，而我却把它当成戏法，拒绝去呢？”这不仅是残酷的，每个人都会责怪我，而且对我来说这也是愚蠢的。

‘Piotr, call a coach; I am going to Petersburg,’ he said to his servant.
‘皮奥特，叫个教练来；我要去彼得堡，”他对仆人说。

Alexey Alexandrovitch decided that he would go to Petersburg and see his wife. If her illness was a trick, he would say nothing and go away again. If she was really in danger, and wished to see him before her death, he would forgive her if he found her alive, and pay her the last duties if he came too late.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇决定去彼得堡看望他的妻子。如果她的病是个诡计，他就什么也不说，再走开。如果她真的处于危险之中，并且希望在死前见到他，那么如果他发现她还活着，他就会原谅她；如果他来得太晚，他就会向她支付最后的义务。

All the way he thought no more of what he ought to do.
一路上他没有再去想自己应该做什么。

With a sense of weariness and uncleanness from the night spent in the train, in the early fog of Petersburg Alexey Alexandrovitch drove through the deserted Nevsky and stared straight before him, not thinking of what was awaiting him. He could not think about it, because in picturing what would happen, he could not drive away the reflection that her death would at once remove all the difficulty of his position. Bakers, closed shops, night-cabmen, porters sweeping the pavements flashed past his eyes, and he watched it all, trying to smother the thought of what was awaiting him, and what he dared not hope for, and yet was hoping for. He drove up to the steps. A sledge and a carriage with the coachman asleep stood at the entrance. As he went into the entry, Alexey Alexandrovitch, as it were, got out his resolution from the remotest corner of his brain, and mastered it thoroughly. Its meaning ran: ‘If it’s a trick, then calm contempt and departure. If truth, do what is proper.’
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇带着在火车上度过的一夜带来的疲倦和不洁感，在彼得堡的晨雾中开车穿过荒凉的涅瓦大街，直视前方，没有想到等待着他的是什么。他无法思考这个问题，因为在想象将会发生的事情时，他无法摆脱这样的想法：她的死将立即消除他处境中的所有困难。面包店、关门的商店、夜间出租车司机、清扫人行道的搬运工在他眼前一闪而过，他注视着这一切，试图压制住等待着他的事情的想法，以及他不敢希望但又希望的事情。他把车开到台阶上。门口停着一辆雪橇和一辆马车，车夫睡着了。当他走进入口时，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇可以说是从他大脑最遥远的角落里拿出了他的决心，并彻底掌握了它。它的意思是：“如果这是一个诡计，那就冷静地蔑视并离开。”如果是真的，就做正确的事。”

The porter opened the door before Alexey Alexandrovitch rang. The porter, Kapitonitch, looked queer in an old coat, without a tie, and in slippers.
在阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇按铃之前，门房打开了门。搬运工卡皮托内奇穿着一件旧外套，没有系领带，脚上穿着拖鞋，看上去很奇怪。

‘How is your mistress?’
“你的女主人怎么样？”

‘A successful confinement yesterday.’
“昨天的坐月子很成功。”

Alexey Alexandrovitch stopped short and turned white. He felt distinctly now how intensely he had longed for her death.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇突然停了下来，脸色煞白。他现在清楚地感觉到自己是多么渴望她的死。

‘And how is she?’
“她怎么样？”

Korney in his morning apron ran downstairs.
穿着晨间围裙的科尼跑下楼。

‘Very ill,’ he answered. ‘There was a consultation yesterday, and the doctor’s here now.’
“病得很重，”他回答道。 “昨天有一次会诊，现在医生来了。”

‘Take my things,’ said Alexey Alexandrovitch, and feeling some relief at the news that there was still hope of her death, he went into the hall.
“拿走我的东西，”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇说，听到她仍有死亡希望的消息，他感到稍稍松了口气，走进了大厅。

On the hatstand there was a military overcoat. Alexey Alexandrovitch noticed it and asked:
帽架上放着一件军大衣。阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇注意到了这一点，问道：

‘Who is here?’
'谁在这儿？'

‘The doctor, the midwife, and Count Vronsky.’
“医生、助产士和渥伦斯基伯爵。”

Alexey Alexandrovitch went into the inner rooms.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇走进内室。

In the drawing room there was no one; at the sound of his steps there came out of her boudoir the midwife in a cap with lilac ribbons.
客厅里空无一人。他的脚步声一响，助产士就从她的闺房里走了出来，她戴着一顶饰有淡紫色丝带的帽子。

She went up to Alexey Alexandrovitch, and with the familiarity given by the approach of death took him by the arm and drew him towards the bedroom.
她走向阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇，用死亡临近时的熟悉感抓住他的手臂，把他拉向卧室。

‘Thank God you’ve come! She keeps on about you and nothing but you,’ she said.
‘感谢上帝你来了！她一直在谈论你，除了你什么都没有，”她说。

‘Make haste with the ice!’ the doctor’s peremptory voice said from the bedroom.
“赶紧用冰块！”卧室里传来医生专横的声音。

Alexey Alexandrovitch went into her boudoir.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇走进她的闺房。

At the table, sitting sideways in a low chair, was Vronsky, his face hidden in his hands, weeping. He jumped up at the doctor’s voice, took his hands from his face, and saw Alexey Alexandrovitch. Seeing the husband, he was so overwhelmed that he sat down again, drawing his head down to his shoulders, as if he wanted to disappear; but he made an effort over himself, got up and said:
渥伦斯基侧身坐在桌边一把矮椅子上，双手捂着脸，哭泣着。听到医生的声音，他跳了起来，把手从脸上拿开，看到了阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇。看到丈夫，他不知所措，又坐下来，把头低到肩膀上，仿佛想消失一样。但他还是努力克制自己，站起来说道：

‘She is dying. The doctors say there is no hope. I am entirely in your power, only let me be here...though I am at your disposal. I...’
‘她快死了。医生说没有希望了。我完全在你的掌控之中，只要让我在这里……尽管我听从你的指挥。我...'

Alexey Alexandrovitch, seeing Vronsky’s tears, felt a rush of that nervous emotion always produced in him by the sight of other people’s suffering, and turning away his face, he moved hurriedly to the door, without hearing the rest of his words. From the bedroom came the sound of Anna’s voice saying something. Her voice was lively, eager, with exceedingly distinct intonations. Alexey Alexandrovitch went into the bedroom, and went up to the bed. She was lying turned with her face towards him. Her cheeks were flushed crimson, her eyes glittered, her little white hands thrust out from the sleeves of her dressing gown were playing with the quilt, twisting it about. It seemed as though she were not only well and blooming, but in the happiest frame of mind. She was talking rapidly, musically, and with exceptionally correct articulation and expressive intonation.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇看到渥伦斯基的眼泪，感到一种紧张的情绪涌上心头，这种紧张情绪总是因看到别人的痛苦而在他身上产生，他转过脸，匆匆走向门口，没有听到他剩下的话。卧室里传来安娜说话的声音。她的声音活泼、急切，语调极其鲜明。阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇走进卧室，走到床边。她转身躺着，脸朝向他。她脸颊绯红，眼睛闪闪发亮，白皙的小手从晨衣袖子里探出来，把玩着被子，把它扭来扭去。看起来她不仅身体健康、容光焕发，而且心情非常幸福。她说话很快，很有音乐感，发音清晰，语调富有表现力。

‘For Alexey—I am speaking of Alexey Alexandrovitch (what a strange and awful thing that both are Alexey, isn’t it?)—Alexey would not refuse me. I should forget, he would forgive.... But why doesn’t he come? He’s so good he doesn’t know himself how good he is. Ah, my God, what agony! Give me some water, quick! Oh, that will be bad for her, my little girl! Oh, very well then, give her to a nurse. Yes, I agree, it’s better in fact. He’ll be coming; it will hurt him to see her. Give her to the nurse.’
“对于阿列克谢——我说的是阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇（两人都是阿列克谢，这是多么奇怪和可怕的事情，不是吗？）——阿列克谢不会拒绝我。我应该忘记，他会原谅……但他为什么不来？他太优秀了，他自己都不知道自己有多优秀。啊，天哪，多么痛苦啊！给我点水，快点！哦，这对她来说会很糟糕，我的小女孩！哦，那好吧，把她交给护士吧。是的，我同意，事实上更好。他会来的；看到她他会很伤心。把她交给护士。

‘Anna Arkadyevna, he has come. Here he is!’ said the midwife, trying to attract her attention to Alexey Alexandrovitch.
“安娜·阿尔卡季耶芙娜，他来了。”他在这里！”助产士说道，试图将她的注意力吸引到阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇身上。

‘Oh, what nonsense!’ Anna went on, not seeing her husband. ‘No, give her to me; give me my little one! He has not come yet. You say he won’t forgive me, because you don’t know him. No one knows him. I’m the only one, and it was hard for me even. His eyes I ought to know—Seryozha has just the same eyes—and I can’t bear to see them because of it. Has Seryozha had his dinner? I know everyone will forget him. He would not forget. Seryozha must be moved into the corner room, and Mariette must be asked to sleep with him.’
“哦，真是胡说八道！”安娜继续说道，没有看到她的丈夫。 ‘不，把她给我；把我的小宝贝给我吧！他还没来。你说他不会原谅我，因为你不认识他。没有人认识他。我是唯一的一个，这对我来说也很难。我应该认识他的眼睛——谢廖扎也有同样的眼睛——因此我不忍心看它们。谢廖扎吃过晚饭了吗？我知道每个人都会忘记他。他不会忘记。谢廖扎必须被搬到角落的房间里，玛丽埃特必须被要求和他一起睡觉。

All of a sudden she shrank back, was silent; and in terror, as though expecting a blow, as though to defend herself, she raised her hands to her face. She had seen her husband.
突然，她退缩了，沉默了。她惊恐地举起双手捂住脸，仿佛期待着挨打，又像是为了自卫。她见过她的丈夫。

‘No, no!’ she began. ‘I am not afraid of him; I am afraid of death. Alexey, come here. I am in a hurry, because I’ve no time, I’ve not long left to live; the fever will begin directly and I shall understand nothing more. Now I understand, I understand it all, I see it all!’
“不，不！”她开始说道。 ‘我不怕他；我害怕死亡。阿列克谢，过来。我很着急，因为我没有时间，我的生命已经不多了；马上就开始发烧，我就什么也听不懂了。现在我明白了，我明白了这一切，我明白了这一切！”

Alexey Alexandrovitch’s wrinkled face wore an expression of agony; he took her by the hand and tried to say something, but he could not utter it; his lower lip quivered, but he still went on struggling with his emotion, and only now and then glanced at her. And each time he glanced at her, he saw her eyes gazing at him with such passionate and triumphant tenderness as he had never seen in them.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇布满皱纹的脸上流露出痛苦的表情。他拉着她的手，想说什么，但说不出来。他的下唇颤抖着，但仍然在与自己的情绪作斗争，只是时不时地看她一眼。每次他看向她时，他都看到她的眼睛注视着他，眼神里充满了他从未见过的热情和胜利的温柔。

‘Wait a minute, you don’t know...stay a little, stay!...’ She stopped, as though collecting her ideas. ‘Yes,’ she began; ‘yes, yes, yes. This is what I wanted to say. Don’t be surprised at me. I’m still the same.... But there is another woman in me, I’m afraid of her: she loved that man, and I tried to hate you, and could not forget about her that used to be. I’m not that woman. Now I’m my real self, all myself. I’m dying now, I know I shall die, ask him. Even now I feel—see here, the weights on my feet, on my hands, on my fingers. My fingers—see how huge they are! But this will soon all be over.... Only one thing I want: forgive me, forgive me quite. I’m terrible, but my nurse used to tell me; the holy martyr—what was her name? She was worse. And I’ll go to Rome; there’s a wilderness, and there I shall be no trouble to any one, only I’ll take Seryozha and the little one.... No, you can’t forgive me! I know, it can’t be forgiven! No, no, go away, you’re too good!’ She held his hand in one burning hand, while she pushed him away with the other.
“等一下，你不知道……稍等一下，稍等一下！……”她停了下来，好像在整理自己的想法。 “是的，”她开始说道。 '对对对。这就是我想说的。不要对我感到惊讶。我还是一样……但我心里有另一个女人，我害怕她：她爱那个男人，而我试图恨你，无法忘记曾经的她。我不是那个女人。现在我是真正的我，完全是我自己。我现在快死了，我知道我会死，问他。即使是现在，我仍然感觉——看这里，我的脚上、我的手上、我的手指上的重量。我的手指——看看它们有多大！但这一切很快就会结束……我只想一件事：原谅我，完全原谅我。我很糟糕，但我的护士曾经告诉我；这位神圣的殉道者——她叫什么名字？她更糟。我要去罗马；那里是一片荒野，在那里我不会给任何人带来麻烦，只是我会带着谢廖扎和小家伙……不，你不能原谅我！我知道，这不能原谅！不，不，走开，你太棒了！”她一只手握住他的手，另一只手把他推开。

The nervous agitation of Alexey Alexandrovitch kept increasing, and had by now reached such a point that he ceased to struggle with it. He suddenly felt that what he had regarded as nervous agitation was on the contrary a blissful spiritual condition that gave him all at once a new happiness he had never known. He did not think that the Christian law that he had been all his life trying to follow, enjoined on him to forgive and love his enemies; but a glad feeling of love and forgiveness for his enemies filled his heart. He knelt down, and laying his head in the curve of her arm, which burned him as with fire through the sleeve, he sobbed like a little child. She put her arm around his head, moved towards him, and with defiant pride lifted up her eyes.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇的紧张不安不断加剧，现在已经达到了他不再挣扎的地步。他突然觉得，他所认为的神经躁动，恰恰相反，是一种幸福的精神状态，一下子给了他一种从未有过的新幸福。他不认为他一生都在努力遵守的基督教律法要求他宽恕和爱他的敌人；相反，他认为基督教的律法并没有要求他宽恕和爱他的敌人。但他的心中充满了对敌人的爱和宽恕的快乐感觉。他跪下来，把头埋在她手臂的曲线里，她的手臂像火一样灼烧着他，他像个小孩子一样抽泣着。她用手臂搂住他的头，走向他，带着挑衅的骄傲抬起眼睛。

‘That is he. I knew him! Now, forgive me, everyone, forgive me!... They’ve come again; why don’t they go away?... Oh, take these cloaks off me!’
‘就是他。我认识他！现在，原谅我，大家，原谅我！……他们又来了；他们为什么不走开？……哦，把这些斗篷从我身上脱下来！

The doctor unloosed her hands, carefully laying her on the pillow, and covered her up to the shoulders. She lay back submissively, and looked before her with beaming eyes.
医生松开她的双手，小心翼翼地将她放在枕头上，盖住她的肩膀。她顺从地躺了回去，眼睛闪闪发亮地看着前方。

‘Remember one thing, that I needed nothing but forgiveness, and I want nothing more.... Why doesn’t he come?’ she said, turning to the door towards Vronsky. ‘Do come, do come! Give him your hand.’
“记住一件事，我只需要宽恕，我不需要更多……他为什么不来？”她说，转向渥伦斯基。 ‘你来吧，你来吧！把你的手给他。

Vronsky came to the side of the bed, and seeing Anna, again hid his face in his hands.
渥伦斯基来到床边，看到安娜，又用手捂住脸。

‘Uncover your face—look at him! He’s a saint,’ she said. ‘Oh! uncover your face, do uncover it!’ she said angrily. ‘Alexey Alexandrovitch, do uncover his face! I want to see him.’
‘揭开你的脸——看看他！他是一位圣人，”她说。 '哦！揭开你的脸，一定要揭开它！”她愤怒地说。 “阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇，揭开他的脸！”我想见他。'

Alexey Alexandrovitch took Vronsky’s hands and drew them away from his face, which was awful with the expression of agony and shame upon it.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇握住渥伦斯基的手，将它们从他的脸上移开，脸上带着痛苦和羞愧的表情，令人感到可怕。

‘Give him your hand. Forgive him.’
‘把手给他。原谅他。'

Alexey Alexandrovitch gave him his hand, not attempting to restrain the tears that streamed from his eyes.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇向他伸出了手，没有试图克制住从眼中涌出的泪水。

‘Thank God, thank God!’ she said, ‘now everything is ready. Only to stretch my legs a little. There, that’s capital. How badly these flowers are done—not a bit like a violet,’ she said, pointing to the hangings. ‘My God, my God! when will it end? Give me some morphine. Doctor, give me some morphine! Oh, my God, my God!’
“感谢上帝，感谢上帝！”她说，“现在一切都准备好了。”只是为了稍微伸展一下我的腿。在那里，这就是资本。这些花做得多么糟糕——一点也不像紫罗兰，”她指着帷幔说道。 ‘我的上帝，我的上帝！什么时候结束？给我一些吗啡。医生，给我吗啡吧！哦，我的上帝，我的上帝！

And she tossed about on the bed.
然后她就在床上翻来覆去。

The doctors said that it was puerperal fever, and that it was ninety-nine chances in a hundred it would end in death. The whole day long there was fever, delirium, and unconsciousness. At midnight the patient lay without consciousness, and almost without pulse.
医生说这是产褥热，百分之九十九的几率会导致死亡。一整天都发烧、神志不清、神志不清。半夜，病人躺着失去知觉，几乎没有脉搏。

The end was expected every minute.
每一分钟都在期待着结局。

Vronsky had gone home, but in the morning he came to inquire, and Alexey Alexandrovitch meeting him in the hall, said: ‘Better stay, she might ask for you,’ and himself led him to his wife’s boudoir. Towards morning, there was a return again of excitement, rapid thought and talk, and again it ended in unconsciousness. On the third day it was the same thing, and the doctors said there was hope. That day Alexey Alexandrovitch went into the boudoir where Vronsky was sitting, and closing the door sat down opposite him.
渥伦斯基已经回家了，但早上他来询问，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇在大厅里迎接他，说：“最好留下来，她可能会要求你，”他亲自把他带到了他妻子的闺房。到了早晨，兴奋、快速的思考和谈话再次回归，但又再次陷入昏迷。第三天还是同样的情况，医生说还有希望。那天，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇走进渥伦斯基坐的闺房，关上门，在他对面坐下。

‘Alexey Alexandrovitch,’ said Vronsky, feeling that a statement of the position was coming, ‘I can’t speak, I can’t understand. Spare me! However hard it is for you, believe me, it is more terrible for me.’
“阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇，”渥伦斯基说，他感觉即将发表立场声明，“我不能说话，我听不懂。饶了我吧！不管这对你来说有多困难，相信我，对我来说更可怕。

He would have risen; but Alexey Alexandrovitch took him by the hand and said:
他本来会站起来的；但阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇握住他的手说道：

‘I beg you to hear me out; it is necessary. I must explain my feelings, the feelings that have guided me and will guide me, so that you may not be in error regarding me. You know I had resolved on a divorce, and had even begun to take proceedings. I won’t conceal from you that in beginning this I was in uncertainty, I was in misery; I will confess that I was pursued by a desire to revenge myself on you and on her. When I got the telegram, I came here with the same feelings; I will say more, I longed for her death. But....’ He paused, pondering whether to disclose or not to disclose his feeling to him. ‘But I saw her and forgave her. And the happiness of forgiveness has revealed to me my duty. I forgive completely. I would offer the other cheek, I would give my cloak if my coat be taken. I pray to God only not to take from me the bliss of forgiveness!’
“我请求你听我说完；有必要。我必须解释我的感受，那些曾经引导我并将引导我的感受，这样你就不会误认为我。你知道我已经决定离婚，甚至已经开始提起诉讼。我不会向你隐瞒，一开始我很不确定，我很痛苦。我承认，我一直渴望向你和她报仇。当我收到电报时，我也怀着同样的心情来到这里；我还要说，我渴望她死。但是……”他顿了顿，思考着要不要向他表露自己的感受。 “但我看到了她并原谅了她。宽恕的幸福向我揭示了我的责任。我完全原谅。如果我的外套被拿走，我会提供另一张脸，我会提供我的斗篷。我只祈求上帝不要夺走我宽恕的幸福！”

Tears stood in his eyes, and the luminous, serene look in them impressed Vronsky.
他的眼里噙着泪水，眼中明亮而平静的神情给渥伦斯基留下了深刻的印象。

‘This is my position: you can trample me in the mud, make me the laughing-stock of the world, I will not abandon her, and I will never utter a word of reproach to you,’ Alexey Alexandrovitch went on. ‘My duty is clearly marked for me; I ought to be with her, and I will be. If she wishes to see you, I will let you know, but now I suppose it would be better for you to go away.’
“这就是我的立场：你可以把我踩在泥里，让我成为全世界的笑柄，我不会抛弃她，我也永远不会对你说一句责备的话，”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇继续说道。 “我的职责是明确的；我应该和她在一起，我也会的。如果她想见你，我会告诉你，但现在我想你最好离开。

He got up, and sobs cut short his words. Vronsky too was getting up, and in a stooping, not yet erect posture, looked up at him from under his brows. He did not understand Alexey Alexandrovitch’s feeling, but he felt that it was something higher and even unattainable for him with his view of life.
他站了起来，抽泣打断了他的话。渥伦斯基也站了起来，以一种尚未直立的弯腰姿势，从眉毛下抬头看着他。他不明白阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇的感受，但他觉得这对于他的人生观来说是更高的，甚至是遥不可及的。

Chapter 18
第18章

After the conversation with Alexey Alexandrovitch, Vronsky went out onto the steps of the Karenins’ house and stood still, with difficulty remembering where he was, and where he ought to walk or drive. He felt disgraced, humiliated, guilty, and deprived of all possibility of washing away his humiliation. He felt thrust out of the beaten track along which he had so proudly and lightly walked till then. All the habits and rules of his life that had seemed so firm, had turned out suddenly false and inapplicable. The betrayed husband, who had figured till that time as a pitiful creature, an incidental and somewhat ludicrous obstacle to his happiness, had suddenly been summoned by her herself, elevated to an awe-inspiring pinnacle, and on the pinnacle that husband had shown himself, not malignant, not false, not ludicrous, but kind and straightforward and large. Vronsky could not but feel this, and the parts were suddenly reversed. Vronsky felt his elevation and his own abasement, his truth and his own falsehood. He felt that the husband was magnanimous even in his sorrow, while he had been base and petty in his deceit. But this sense of his own humiliation before the man he had unjustly despised made up only a small part of his misery. He felt unutterably wretched now, for his passion for Anna, which had seemed to him of late to be growing cooler, now that he knew he had lost her forever, was stronger than ever it had been. He had seen all of her in her illness, had come to know her very soul, and it seemed to him that he had never loved her till then. And now when he had learned to know her, to love her as she should be loved, he had been humiliated before her, and had lost her forever, leaving with her nothing of himself but a shameful memory. Most terrible of all had been his ludicrous, shameful position when Alexey Alexandrovitch had pulled his hands away from his humiliated face. He stood on the steps of the Karenins’ house like one distraught, and did not know what to do.
与阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇谈话后，渥伦斯基走到卡列宁家的台阶上，一动不动地站着，很难记住他在哪里，以及他应该步行或开车去哪里。他感到耻辱、羞辱、愧疚，并被剥夺了洗刷耻辱的一切可能。他感到自己被推离了他之前一直自豪地、轻松地走着的老路。他生活中所有看似坚定的习惯和规则突然变得错误且不适用。那个被背叛的丈夫，一直被视为一个可怜的生物，一个对他的幸福来说偶然的、有点可笑的障碍，突然被她亲自召唤，提升到令人敬畏的顶峰，站在丈夫所展现的顶峰上。 ，不恶毒、不虚伪、不荒唐，而是善良、率直、大度。渥伦斯基不禁感觉到了这一点，零件突然颠倒了过来。渥伦斯基感受到了他的崇高和他自己的卑微，他的真实和他自己的虚假。他觉得丈夫即使在悲伤中也很宽宏，而他在欺骗中却卑鄙小气。但这种在他无理鄙视的人面前所感受到的羞辱感，只占了他痛苦的一小部分。他现在感到无比悲惨，因为他对安娜的热情近来似乎变得越来越冷淡，现在他知道自己永远失去了她，但比以往任何时候都更加强烈。他在她生病时看到了她的全部，了解了她的灵魂，他觉得在那之前他从未爱过她。而现在，当他学会了了解她，学会了爱她，正如她应该被爱的那样，他却在她面前受到了羞辱，永远失去了她，只给她留下了一段可耻的记忆，除了他自己，什么也没有。 最可怕的是，当阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇把手从他那张受辱的脸上抽开时，他的姿势可笑又可耻。他像一个心烦意乱的人一样站在卡列宁家的台阶上，不知道该怎么办。

‘A sledge, sir?’ asked the porter.
“长官，有雪橇吗？”搬运工问。

‘Yes, a sledge.’
“是的，雪橇。”

On getting home, after three sleepless nights, Vronsky, without undressing, lay down flat on the sofa, clasping his hands and laying his head on them. His head was heavy. Images, memories, and ideas of the strangest description followed one another with extraordinary rapidity and vividness. First it was the medicine he had poured out for the patient and spilt over the spoon, then the midwife’s white hands, then the queer posture of Alexey Alexandrovitch on the floor beside the bed.
经过三个不眠之夜后，渥伦斯基回到家，没有脱衣服，就平躺在沙发上，双手合十，头枕在双手上。他的头很沉。最奇怪的描述的图像、记忆和想法以惊人的速度和生动性相继出现。首先是他为病人倒出的药洒在勺子上，然后是助产士白皙的双手，然后是床边地板上阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇的奇怪姿势。

‘To sleep! To forget!’ he said to himself with the serene confidence of a healthy man that if he is tired and sleepy, he will go to sleep at once. And the same instant his head did begin to feel drowsy and he began to drop off into forgetfulness. The waves of the sea of unconsciousness had begun to meet over his head, when all at once—it was as though a violent shock of electricity had passed over him. He started so that he leaped up on the springs of the sofa, and leaning on his arms got in a panic onto his knees. His eyes were wide open as though he had never been asleep. The heaviness in his head and the weariness in his limbs that he had felt a minute before had suddenly gone.
'睡觉！忘记吧！”他带着健康人平静的自信对自己说，如果他累了、困了，他会立刻去睡觉。就在同一瞬间，他的头确实开始感到昏昏欲睡，他开始陷入健忘状态。意识之海的波浪开始在他头顶上交汇，突然间——就好像一股猛烈的电击从他身上掠过。他吓了一跳，跳到了沙发的弹簧上，惊慌地靠着双臂跪倒在地。他的眼睛睁得大大的，好像从来没有睡过一样。一分钟前他头脑中的沉重和四肢的疲倦突然消失了。

‘You may trample me in the mud,’ he heard Alexey Alexandrovitch’s words and saw him standing before him, and saw Anna’s face with its burning flush and glittering eyes, gazing with love and tenderness not at him but at Alexey Alexandrovitch; he saw his own, as he fancied, foolish and ludicrous figure when Alexey Alexandrovitch took his hands away from his face. He stretched out his legs again and flung himself on the sofa in the same position and shut his eyes.
“你可以把我踩在泥里，”他听到阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇的话，看到他站在他面前，看到安娜的脸涨得通红，眼睛闪闪发光，充满爱意和温柔地凝视着阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇，而不是他。当阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇把手从脸上移开时，他看到了自己想象中的愚蠢而可笑的身影。他再次伸直双腿，以同样的姿势倒在沙发上，闭上了眼睛。

‘To sleep! To forget!’ he repeated to himself. But with his eyes shut he saw more distinctly than ever Anna’s face as it had been on the memorable evening before the races.
'睡觉！忘记！”他对自己重复道。但闭上眼睛，他比以往任何时候都更清楚地看到安娜的脸，就像赛前那个令人难忘的夜晚一样。

‘That is not and will not be, and she wants to wipe it out of her memory. But I cannot live without it. How can we be reconciled? how can we be reconciled?’ he said aloud, and unconsciously began to repeat these words. This repetition checked the rising up of fresh images and memories, which he felt were thronging in his brain. But repeating words did not check his imagination for long. Again in extraordinarily rapid succession his best moments rose before his mind, and then his recent humiliation. ‘Take away his hands,’ Anna’s voice says. He takes away his hands and feels the shamestruck and idiotic expression of his face.
“那不是，也不会是，她想把它从记忆中抹去。”但没有它我就活不下去。我们怎样才能和好呢？我们怎样才能和好呢？”他大声说道，并无意识地开始重复这句话。这种重复检查了新的图像和记忆的出现，他觉得这些图像和记忆挤满了他的大脑。但重复的话并没有长久地抑制他的想象力。他的脑海中再次以极快的速度连续浮现出他最美好的时刻，然后是他最近的耻辱。 “拿开他的手，”安娜的声音说道。他把手拿开，感觉到自己脸上羞愧而愚蠢的表情。

He still lay down, trying to sleep, though he felt there was not the smallest hope of it, and kept repeating stray words from some chain of thought, trying by this to check the rising flood of fresh images. He listened, and heard in a strange, mad whisper words repeated: ‘I did not appreciate it, did not make enough of it. I did not appreciate it, did not make enough of it.’
他仍然躺着，想睡觉，尽管他觉得已经没有一丝希望了，他不断地重复着一些思绪中的零散话语，试图以此来抑制不断涌现的新鲜图像。他听着，听见奇怪而疯狂的低语声中重复着这样的话：“我不欣赏它，没有充分享受它。”我不欣赏它，没有充分利用它。

‘What’s this? Am I going out of my mind?’ he said to himself. ‘Perhaps. What makes men go out of their minds; what makes men shoot themselves?’ he answered himself, and opening his eyes, he saw with wonder an embroidered cushion beside him, worked by Varya, his brother’s wife. He touched the tassel of the cushion, and tried to think of Varya, of when he had seen her last. But to think of anything extraneous was an agonizing effort. ‘No, I must sleep!’ He moved the cushion up, and pressed his head into it, but he had to make an effort to keep his eyes shut. He jumped up and sat down. ‘That’s all over for me,’ he said to himself. ‘I must think what to do. What is left?’ His mind rapidly ran through his life apart from his love of Anna.
'这是什么？我是不是疯了？”他自言自语道。 '也许。是什么让男人失去理智；是什么让人们开枪自杀？”他自己回答道，睁开眼睛，他惊奇地看到身旁有一个绣花垫子，是他兄弟的妻子瓦里亚（Varya）制作的。他摸了摸垫子的流苏，努力回想起瓦莉亚，回想起他最后一次见到她的时候。但想到任何无关紧要的事情都是一件痛苦的事。 “不，我必须睡觉！”他把垫子移上去，把头按在上面，但他必须努力闭上眼睛。他跳起来坐下。 “我的一切都结束了，”他对自己说。 ‘我必须想一想该怎么做。还剩下什么？”除了对安娜的爱之外，他的思绪飞速地掠过他的一生。

‘Ambition? Serpuhovskoy? Society? The court?’ He could not come to a pause anywhere. All of it had had meaning before, but now there was no reality in it. He got up from the sofa, took off his coat, undid his belt, and uncovering his hairy chest to breathe more freely, walked up and down the room. ‘This is how people go mad,’ he repeated, ‘and how they shoot themselves...to escape humiliation,’ he added slowly.
'志向？谢尔普霍夫斯科伊？社会？法庭？”他无法在任何地方停顿。以前这一切都是有意义的，但现在却没有了现实。他从沙发上站起来，脱掉外套，解开腰带，露出毛茸茸的胸膛，让呼吸更顺畅，在房间里走来走去。 “这就是人们发疯的方式，”他重复道，“以及他们如何开枪自杀……以逃避羞辱，”他慢慢地补充道。

He went to the door and closed it, then with fixed eyes and clenched teeth he went up to the table, took a revolver, looked round him, turned it to a loaded barrel, and sank into thought. For two minutes, his head bent forward with an expression of an intense effort of thought, he stood with the revolver in his hand, motionless, thinking.
他走到门口，关上门，然后他目光坚定，咬紧牙关，走到桌前，拿起一把左轮手枪，环顾四周，把它变成一个装满子弹的枪管，陷入沉思。他一动不动地站着，手里拿着左轮手枪，一动不动地思考着，整整两分钟，他的头向前倾，脸上露出一种强烈思考的表情。

‘Of course,’ he said to himself, as though a logical, continuous, and clear chain of reasoning had brought him to an indubitable conclusion. In reality this ‘of course,’ that seemed convincing to him, was simply the result of exactly the same circle of memories and images through which he had passed ten times already during the last hour—memories of happiness lost forever. There was the same conception of the senselessness of everything to come in life, the same consciousness of humiliation. Even the sequence of these images and emotions was the same.
“当然，”他对自己说，仿佛一连串合乎逻辑的、连续的、清晰的推理链让他得出了一个不容置疑的结论。事实上，这个对他来说似乎令人信服的“当然”，只不过是他在过去一个小时里已经走过十次的完全相同的记忆和图像循环的结果——永远失去的幸福记忆。他们对生活中即将发生的一切都毫无意义，也有同样的羞辱意识。甚至这些图像和情感的顺序都是相同的。

‘Of course,’ he repeated, when for the third time his thought passed again round the same spellbound circle of memories and images, and pulling the revolver to the left side of his chest, and clutching it vigorously with his whole hand, as it were, squeezing it in his fist, he pulled the trigger. He did not hear the sound of the shot, but a violent blow on his chest sent him reeling. He tried to clutch at the edge of the table, dropped the revolver, staggered, and sat down on the ground, looking about him in astonishment. He did not recognize his room, looking up from the ground, at the bent legs of the table, at the wastepaper basket, and the tiger-skin rug. The hurried, creaking steps of his servant coming through the drawing room brought him to his senses. He made an effort at thought, and was aware that he was on the floor; and seeing blood on the tiger-skin rug and on his arm, he knew he had shot himself.
“当然，”他重复道，当他的思绪第三次再次绕过记忆和图像的同一个令人着迷的圆圈时，他把左轮手枪拉到胸前的左侧，并用整只手用力抓住它，因为它他把它握在拳头里，扣动了扳机。他没有听到枪声，但胸口上的猛烈一击让他浑身颤抖。他试图抓住桌子的边缘，但左轮手枪掉了下来，摇摇晃晃地坐在地上，惊讶地环顾四周。他不认识自己的房间，从地上抬起头，看着弯曲的桌腿、纸篓和虎皮地毯。仆人嘎吱嘎吱地匆匆走过客厅的脚步声让他回过神来。他努力思考，意识到自己正躺在地板上。当他看到虎皮地毯上和手臂上有血迹时，他知道自己开枪自杀了。

‘Idiotic! Missed!’ he said, fumbling after the revolver. The revolver was close beside him—he sought further off. Still feeling for it, he stretched out to the other side, and not being strong enough to keep his balance, fell over, streaming with blood.
‘白痴！打偏了！”他边说边摸索着左轮手枪。左轮手枪就在他身边——他向更远的地方寻找。他还在摸索着，向另一边伸了个懒腰，但由于没有力气保持平衡，摔倒了，鲜血直流。

The elegant, whiskered manservant, who used to be continually complaining to his acquaintances of the delicacy of his nerves, was so panic-stricken on seeing his master lying on the floor, that he left him losing blood while he ran for assistance. An hour later Varya, his brother’s wife, had arrived, and with the assistance of three doctors, whom she had sent for in all directions, and who all appeared at the same moment, she got the wounded man to bed, and remained to nurse him.
那个优雅的留着胡须的男仆，以前总是向熟人抱怨他的神经脆弱，现在看到他的主人躺在地板上，惊慌失措，让他一边流血一边跑去寻求帮助。一小时后，他兄弟的妻子瓦里娅到达了，在她从四面八方请来的三名医生的帮助下，他们都同时出现，她让受伤的人躺在床上，并留下来护理他。

Chapter 19
第19章

The mistake made by Alexey Alexandrovitch in that, when preparing for seeing his wife, he had overlooked the possibility that her repentance might be sincere, and he might forgive her, and she might not die—this mistake was two months after his return from Moscow brought home to him in all its significance. But the mistake made by him had arisen not simply from his having overlooked that contingency, but also from the fact that until that day of his interview with his dying wife, he had not known his own heart. At his sick wife’s bedside he had for the first time in his life given way to that feeling of sympathetic suffering always roused in him by the sufferings of others, and hitherto looked on by him with shame as a harmful weakness. And pity for her, and remorse for having desired her death, and most of all, the joy of forgiveness, made him at once conscious, not simply of the relief of his own sufferings, but of a spiritual peace he had never experienced before. He suddenly felt that the very thing that was the source of his sufferings had become the source of his spiritual joy; that what had seemed insoluble while he was judging, blaming, and hating, had become clear and simple when he forgave and loved.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇犯下的错误是，在准备见妻子时，他忽略了她的悔改可能是真诚的，他可能会原谅她，而她可能不会死的可能性——这个错误是在他从莫斯科回来两个月后发生的。让他明白了它的全部意义。但他所犯的错误不仅是因为他忽视了这种偶然性，而且还因为直到他与垂死的妻子会面的那一天之前，他还没有了解自己的内心。在他生病的妻子的床边，他有生以来第一次感受到了一种同情痛苦的感觉，这种感觉总是因他人的痛苦而在他内心激起，迄今为止，他一直羞愧地认为这是一种有害的弱点。对她的怜悯，对希望她死的悔恨，最重要的是，宽恕的喜悦，使他立刻意识到，不仅是他自己的痛苦得到了缓解，而且是他以前从未经历过的精神平安。他突然觉得，原来他痛苦的根源，现在变成了他精神上快乐的源泉；当他评判、责备和仇恨时，那些看似无法解决的事情，在他宽恕和爱的时候，就变得清晰和简单了。

He forgave his wife and pitied her for her sufferings and her remorse. He forgave Vronsky, and pitied him, especially after reports reached him of his despairing action. He felt more for his son than before. And he blamed himself now for having taken too little interest in him. But for the little newborn baby he felt a quite peculiar sentiment, not of pity, only, but of tenderness. At first, from a feeling of compassion alone, he had been interested in the delicate little creature, who was not his child, and who was cast on one side during her mother’s illness, and would certainly have died if he had not troubled about her, and he did not himself observe how fond he became of her. He would go into the nursery several times a day, and sit there for a long while, so that the nurses, who were at first afraid of him, got quite used to his presence. Sometimes for half an hour at a stretch he would sit silently gazing at the saffron-red, downy, wrinkled face of the sleeping baby, watching the movements of the frowning brows, and the fat little hands, with clenched fingers, that rubbed the little eyes and nose. At such moments particularly, Alexey Alexandrovitch had a sense of perfect peace and inward harmony, and saw nothing extraordinary in his position, nothing that ought to be changed.
他原谅了妻子，并同情她所受的痛苦和悔恨。他原谅了渥伦斯基，并同情他，尤其是在他得知渥伦斯基绝望的行为之后。他对儿子的感情比以前更深了。他现在责怪自己对他太不感兴趣了。但对于刚出生的小婴儿，他却有一种很奇特的感觉，不仅仅是怜悯，还有温柔。起初，他只是出于同情心，对这个娇弱的小生物感兴趣，她不是他的孩子，在她母亲生病期间被抛在一边，如果他不关心她，她肯定会死。 ，他自己也没有注意到自己变得多么喜欢她。他一天会进育婴室好几次，并在那里坐上很长一段时间，让原本还害怕他的护士们，渐渐习惯了他的存在。有时，他会一连半个小时，静静地坐着，凝视着熟睡中的婴儿那张红红的、柔软的、布满皱纹的脸，看着皱着眉头的动作，还有那双胖胖的小手，手指紧握，抚摸着小宝宝的小脸。眼睛和鼻子。尤其是在这样的时刻，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇有一种完美的平静和内心和谐的感觉，他认为自己的立场没有什么特别的，没有什么值得改变的。

But as time went on, he saw more and more distinctly that however natural the position now seemed to him, he would not long be allowed to remain in it. He felt that besides the blessed spiritual force controlling his soul, there was another, a brutal force, as powerful, or more powerful, which controlled his life, and that this force would not allow him that humble peace he longed for. He felt that everyone was looking at him with inquiring wonder, that he was not understood, and that something was expected of him. Above all, he felt the instability and unnaturalness of his relations with his wife.
但随着时间的推移，他越来越清楚地看到，无论现在这个职位对他来说多么自然，他都不会被允许长期留在这个职位上。他觉得，除了那受祝福的精神力量控制着他的灵魂之外，还有另外一种，一种同样强大，或者更强大的残酷力量，控制着他的生命，而这股力量不会让他得到他所渴望的卑微的平静。他觉得每个人都用好奇的目光看着他，不理解他，对他有所期待。最重要的是，他感到自己与妻子的关系不稳定且不自然。

When the softening effect of the near approach of death had passed away, Alexey Alexandrovitch began to notice that Anna was afraid of him, ill at ease with him, and could not look him straight in the face. She seemed to be wanting, and not daring, to tell him something; and as though foreseeing their present relations could not continue, she seemed to be expecting something from him.
当死亡临近的软化效果消失后，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇开始注意到安娜害怕他，对他感到不安，无法直视他的脸。她似乎想告诉他什么，但又不敢告诉他。仿佛预见到他们现在的关系无法继续下去，她似乎在期待着他的什么。

Towards the end of February it happened that Anna’s baby daughter, who had been named Anna too, fell ill. Alexey Alexandrovitch was in the nursery in the morning, and leaving orders for the doctor to be sent for, he went to his office. On finishing his work, he returned home at four. Going into the hall he saw a handsome groom, in a braided livery and a bear fur cape, holding a white fur cloak.
二月底，安娜的小女儿（也叫安娜）生病了。阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇早上在育婴室，留下命令叫医生来，然后就去了他的办公室。完成工作后，他四点钟回到家。走进大厅，他看到一位英俊的新郎，穿着辫子制服，披着熊皮斗篷，拿着一件白色的毛皮斗篷。

‘Who is here?’ asked Alexey Alexandrovitch.
“谁在这里？”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇问道。

‘Princess Elizaveta Federovna Tverskaya,’ the groom answered, and it seemed to Alexey Alexandrovitch that he grinned.
“伊丽莎白公主伊丽莎白·费德罗芙娜·特维尔斯卡娅。”新郎回答道，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇觉得他笑了。

During all this difficult time Alexey Alexandrovitch had noticed that his worldly acquaintances, especially women, took a peculiar interest in him and his wife. All these acquaintances he observed with difficulty concealing their mirth at something; the same mirth that he had perceived in the lawyer’s eyes, and just now in the eyes of this groom. Everyone seemed, somehow, hugely delighted, as though they had just been at a wedding. When they met him, with ill-disguised enjoyment they inquired after his wife’s health. The presence of Princess Tverskaya was unpleasant to Alexey Alexandrovitch from the memories associated with her, and also because he disliked her, and he went straight to the nursery. In the day nursery Seryozha, leaning on the table with his legs on a chair, was drawing and chatting away merrily. The English governess, who had during Anna’s illness replaced the French one, was sitting near the boy knitting a shawl. She hurriedly got up, curtseyed, and pulled Seryozha.
在这一切困难时期，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇注意到他的世俗熟人，尤其是女人，对他和他的妻子产生了特殊的兴趣。他观察到所有这些熟人都很难掩饰他们对某事的喜悦。他在律师的眼中以及刚才在新郎的眼中看到了同样的欢乐。不知何故，每个人似乎都非常高兴，就好像他们刚刚参加了一场婚礼。当他们见到他时，他们带着掩饰不住的高兴询问他妻子的健康状况。特维尔斯卡娅公主的出现让阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇感到不愉快，因为他对她有记忆，也因为他不喜欢她，所以他直接去了育婴室。日间托儿所里，谢廖扎靠在桌子上，双腿搭在椅子上，愉快地画画、聊天。安娜生病期间，英国家庭女教师接替了法国家庭女教师，她正坐在男孩旁边编织披肩。她赶紧站起来，行屈膝礼，拉起谢廖扎。

Alexey Alexandrovitch stroked his son’s hair, answered the governess’s inquiries about his wife, and asked what the doctor had said of the baby.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇抚摸着儿子的头发，回答了家庭女教师关于他妻子的询问，并询问医生对孩子的评价。

‘The doctor said it was nothing serious, and he ordered a bath, sir.’
“医生说没什么严重的，他吩咐洗澡，先生。”

‘But she is still in pain,’ said Alexey Alexandrovitch, listening to the baby’s screaming in the next room.
“但她仍然很痛苦，”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇说道，同时听到隔壁房间里婴儿的尖叫声。

‘I think it’s the wet-nurse, sir,’ the Englishwoman said firmly.
“我想是奶妈，先生，”英国女人坚定地说。

‘What makes you think so?’ he asked, stopping short.
“是什么让你这么想？”他突然停了下来问道。

‘It’s just as it was at Countess Paul’s, sir. They gave the baby medicine, and it turned out that the baby was simply hungry: the nurse had no milk, sir.’
“就像在保罗伯爵夫人家一样，先生。他们给婴儿吃药，结果发现婴儿只是饿了：护士没有牛奶，先生。”

Alexey Alexandrovitch pondered, and after standing still a few seconds he went in at the other door. The baby was lying with its head thrown back, stiffening itself in the nurse’s arms, and would not take the plump breast offered it; and it never ceased screaming in spite of the double hushing of the wet-nurse and the other nurse, who was bending over her.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇想了想，站了几秒钟后，他从另一扇门走了进去。婴儿仰着头躺着，在护士的怀里僵硬着，不肯接受丰满的乳房。尽管奶妈和另一个俯身在她身上的护士双双嘘声，它却从未停止过尖叫。

‘Still no better?’ said Alexey Alexandrovitch.
“还是没有好转吗？”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇说。

‘She’s very restless,’ answered the nurse in a whisper.
“她很不安。”护士低声回答。

‘Miss Edwarde says that perhaps the wet-nurse has no milk,’ he said.
“爱德华德小姐说，也许奶妈没有牛奶，”他说。

‘I think so too, Alexey Alexandrovitch.’
“我也这么认为，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇。”

‘Then why didn’t you say so?’
“那你为什么不这么说呢？”

‘Who’s one to say it to? Anna Arkadyevna still ill...’ said the nurse discontentedly.
‘这句话该对谁说呢？安娜·阿尔卡季耶夫娜还病着……”护士不满地说。

The nurse was an old servant of the family. And in her simple words there seemed to Alexey Alexandrovitch an allusion to his position.
护士是家里的一位老仆人。在阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇看来，她简单的话似乎暗示了他的立场。

The baby screamed louder than ever, struggling and sobbing. The nurse, with a gesture of despair, went to it, took it from the wet-nurse’s arms, and began walking up and down, rocking it.
婴儿的尖叫声比以往任何时候都更大，挣扎和抽泣。护士做出绝望的表情，走过去，从奶妈的怀里接过它，开始上下走动，摇晃它。

‘You must ask the doctor to examine the wet-nurse,’ said Alexey Alexandrovitch. The smartly dressed and healthy-looking nurse, frightened at the idea of losing her place, muttered something to herself, and covering her bosom, smiled contemptuously at the idea of doubts being cast on her abundance of milk. In that smile, too, Alexey Alexandrovitch saw a sneer at his position.
“你必须请医生给奶妈做检查，”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇说。衣着光鲜、看上去很健康的护士，一想到要失去自己的位置，就感到害怕，自言自语了些什么，捂着胸口，一想到有人怀疑她丰沛的奶水，就轻蔑地笑了笑。阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇在那笑容中也看到了对自己立场的冷笑。

‘Luckless child!’ said the nurse, hushing the baby, and still walking up and down with it.
“不幸的孩子！”护士一边说，一边让婴儿安静下来，仍然抱着他走来走去。

Alexey Alexandrovitch sat down, and with a despondent and suffering face watched the nurse walking to and fro.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇坐下来，一脸沮丧和痛苦地看着护士来来往往。

When the child at last was still, and had been put in a deep bed, and the nurse, after smoothing the little pillow, had left her, Alexey Alexandrovitch got up, and walking awkwardly on tiptoe, approached the baby. For a minute he was still, and with the same despondent face gazed at the baby; but all at once a smile, that moved his hair and the skin of his forehead, came out on his face, and he went as softly out of the room.
当孩子终于安静下来，被放到一张很深的床上，保姆抚平小枕头后离开她时，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇站了起来，笨拙地踮起脚尖，走近孩子。他一动不动，用同样沮丧的表情凝视着婴儿。但突然间，他的脸上露出了微笑，感动了他的头发和额头的皮肤，然后他轻手轻脚地走出了房间。

In the dining room he rang the bell, and told the servant who came in to send again for the doctor. He felt vexed with his wife for not being anxious about this exquisite baby, and in this vexed humor he had no wish to go to her; he had no wish, either, to see Princess Betsy. But his wife might wonder why he did not go to her as usual; and so, overcoming his disinclination, he went towards the bedroom. As he walked over the soft rug towards the door, he could not help overhearing a conversation he did not want to hear.
到了餐厅，他按响了门铃，吩咐进来的仆人再去请医生。他对妻子不为这个精致的婴儿担心而感到恼火，在这种恼怒的心情下，他不想去找她；因为他不想去见她。他也不想见到贝特西公主。但他的妻子可能会奇怪，为什么他没有像往常一样去找她？于是，他克服了心中的厌恶，向卧室走去。当他踏着柔软的地毯走向门口时，他忍不住听到了一段他不想听到的谈话。

‘If he hadn’t been going away, I could have understood your answer and his too. But your husband ought to be above that,’ Betsy was saying.
“如果他没有走开，我就能理解你的回答，也能理解他的回答。但你的丈夫应该高于这个，”贝特西说。

‘It’s not for my husband; for myself I don’t wish it. Don’t say that!’ answered Anna’s excited voice.
“这不是给我丈夫的，而是给我丈夫的。”对于我自己来说，我不希望这样。别这么说！”安娜兴奋的声音回答道。

‘Yes, but you must care to say good-bye to a man who has shot himself on your account....’
“是的，但你必须向一个因为你的缘故而开枪自杀的人说再见……”

‘That’s just why I don’t want to.’
“这就是我不想这么做的原因。”

With a dismayed and guilty expression, Alexey Alexandrovitch stopped and would have gone back unobserved. But reflecting that this would be undignified, he turned back again, and clearing his throat, he went up to the bedroom. The voices were silent, and he went in.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇脸上带着沮丧和内疚的表情，停了下来，本想在不被发现的情况下回去的。但想到这样做有失尊严，他又转过身来，清了清嗓子，上楼去了卧室。众人沉默了，他走了进去。

Anna, in a gray dressing gown, with a crop of short clustering black curls on her round head, was sitting on a settee. The eagerness died out of her face, as it always did, at the sight of her husband; she dropped her head and looked round uneasily at Betsy. Betsy, dressed in the height of the latest fashion, in a hat that towered somewhere over her head like a shade on a lamp, in a blue dress with violet crossway stripes slanting one way on the bodice and the other way on the skirt, was sitting beside Anna, her tall flat figure held erect. Bowing her head, she greeted Alexey Alexandrovitch with an ironical smile.
安娜穿着灰色晨衣，圆圆的头上留着一簇黑色的短卷发，坐在长沙发上。一看到她的丈夫，她脸上的渴望就消失了，就像往常一样。她低下头，不安地看着贝特西。贝特西穿着最流行的衣服，戴着一顶高高地高过头顶的帽子，就像灯罩上的灯罩一样，穿着一件蓝色连衣裙，紫色的十字条纹在紧身胸衣上向一侧倾斜，在裙子上向另一侧倾斜。坐在安娜身边，她高高的扁平身材挺得笔直。她低下头，带着讽刺的微笑向阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇打招呼。

‘Ah!’ she said, as though surprised. ‘I’m very glad you’re at home. You never put in an appearance anywhere, and I haven’t seen you ever since Anna has been ill. I have heard all about it—your anxiety. Yes, you’re a wonderful husband!’ she said, with a meaning and affable air, as though she were bestowing an order of magnanimity on him for his conduct to his wife.
“啊！”她说道，似乎很惊讶。 ‘我很高兴你在家。你从来没有在任何地方露面过，自从安娜生病后我就再也没有见过你。我已经听说过这一切——你的焦虑。是的，你是一个很棒的丈夫！”她语气中带着深意和和蔼可亲，仿佛她是在为他对妻子的行为授予宽宏勋章。

Alexey Alexandrovitch bowed frigidly, and kissing his wife’s hand, asked how she was.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇冷冷地鞠了一躬，亲吻妻子的手，问她怎么样。

‘Better, I think,’ she said, avoiding his eyes.
“我想好多了，”她说，避开了他的目光。

‘But you’ve rather a feverish-looking color,’ he said, laying stress on the word ‘feverish.’
“但你的颜色看起来相当发烧，”他说，强调了“发烧”这个词。

‘We’ve been talking too much,’ said Betsy. ‘I feel it’s selfishness on my part, and I am going away.’
“我们聊得太多了，”贝特西说。 “我觉得这是我的自私，我要离开。”

She got up, but Anna, suddenly flushing, quickly caught at her hand.
她站了起来，但安娜突然涨红了脸，赶紧抓住了她的手。

‘No, wait a minute, please. I must tell you...no, you.’ she turned to Alexey Alexandrovitch, and her neck and brow were suffused with crimson. ‘I won’t and can’t keep anything secret from you,’ she said.
‘不，请等一下。我必须告诉你……不，是你。”她转向阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇，脖子和额头上都泛着猩红。 “我不会也不能对你隐瞒任何事情，”她说。

Alexey Alexandrovitch cracked his fingers and bowed his head.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇打响了手指，低下了头。

‘Betsy’s been telling me that Count Vronsky wants to come here to say good-bye before his departure for Tashkend.’ She did not look at her husband, and was evidently in haste to have everything out, however hard it might be for her. ‘I told her I could not receive him.’
“贝特西一直告诉我，渥伦斯基伯爵在动身前往塔什干之前想来这里道别。”她没有看她的丈夫，显然是急于把一切都收拾好，无论这对她来说有多困难。 “我告诉她我不能接待他。”

‘You said, my dear, that it would depend on Alexey Alexandrovitch,’ Betsy corrected her.
“你说过，亲爱的，这取决于阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇，”贝特西纠正她。

‘Oh, no, I can’t receive him; and what object would there....’ She stopped suddenly, and glanced inquiringly at her husband (he did not look at her). ‘In short, I don’t wish it....’
“哦，不，我不能接待他；那里会是什么东西……”她突然停了下来，询问地看了一眼她的丈夫（他没有看她）。 「总之，我不希望这样……」

Alexey Alexandrovitch advanced and would have taken her hand.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇走上前来，想要握住她的手。

Her first impulse was to jerk back her hand from the damp hand with big swollen veins that sought hers, but with an obvious effort to control herself she pressed his hand.
她的第一反应是把手从那只湿漉漉的、青肿的血管正在寻找她的手上抽回来，但显然她努力控制住自己，并按下了他的手。

‘I am very grateful to you for your confidence, but...’ he said, feeling with confusion and annoyance that what he could decide easily and clearly by himself, he could not discuss before Princess Tverskaya, who to him stood for the incarnation of that brute force which would inevitably control him in the life he led in the eyes of the world, and hinder him from giving way to his feeling of love and forgiveness. He stopped short, looking at Princess Tverskaya.
“我非常感谢你的信任，但是……”他说，感到困惑和烦恼，因为他可以自己轻松而清楚地决定的事情，他无法在特维尔斯卡娅公主面前讨论，对他来说，特维尔斯卡娅公主代表着转世。那种野蛮的力量不可避免地会控制他在世人眼中所过的生活，并阻碍他屈服于爱和宽恕的感觉。他突然停了下来，看着特维尔斯卡娅公主。

‘Well, good-bye, my darling,’ said Betsy, getting up. She kissed Anna, and went out. Alexey Alexandrovitch escorted her out.
“好吧，再见，亲爱的，”贝特西站起身来说道。她吻了安娜，然后出去了。阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇护送她出去。

‘Alexey Alexandrovitch! I know you are a truly magnanimous man,’ said Betsy, stopping in the little drawing-room, and with special warmth shaking hands with him once more. ‘I am an outsider, but I so love her and respect you that I venture to advise. Receive him. Alexey Vronsky is the soul of honor, and he is going away to Tashkend.’
“阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇！我知道你是一个真正宽宏大量的人。”贝特西在小客厅里停下来说道，并再次以特别的热情与他握手。 “我是一个局外人，但我非常爱她并尊重你，所以我敢于向你提供建议。接待他。阿列克谢·渥伦斯基是荣誉之魂，他要去塔什干。

‘Thank you, princess, for your sympathy and advice. But the question of whether my wife can or cannot see anyone she must decide herself.’
“公主，谢谢您的同情和建议。但我的妻子是否可以见任何人的问题必须由她自己决定。

He said this from habit, lifting his brows with dignity, and reflected immediately that whatever his words might be, there could be no dignity in his position. And he saw this by the suppressed, malicious, and ironical smile with which Betsy glanced at him after this phrase.
他出于习惯说这句话，威严地扬起眉毛，随即意识到，无论他说什么，他的立场都毫无尊严可言。他从贝特西听完这句话后望向他的脸上露出的压抑的、恶毒的、讽刺的微笑中看出了这一点。

Chapter 20
第20章

Alexey Alexandrovitch took leave of Betsy in the drawing room, and went to his wife. She was lying down, but hearing his steps she sat up hastily in her former attitude, and looked in a scared way at him. He saw she had been crying.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇在客厅里告别贝特西，走向他的妻子。她本是躺着的，但听到他的脚步声，她又恢复了原来的姿势，急忙坐了起来，惊恐地看着他。他看到她一直在哭。

‘I am very grateful for your confidence in me.’ He repeated gently in Russian the phrase he had said in Betsy’s presence in French, and sat down beside her. When he spoke to her in Russian, using the Russian ‘thou’ of intimacy and affection, it was insufferably irritating to Anna. ‘And I am very grateful for your decision. I, too, imagine that since he is going away, there is no sort of necessity for Count Vronsky to come here. However, if...’
“我非常感谢你对我的信任。”他用俄语轻轻地重复了他在贝特西面前用法语说过的话，然后在她旁边坐下。当他用俄语对她说话时，用的是表示亲密和感情的俄语“你”，这让安娜感到难以忍受的恼怒。 “我非常感谢你的决定。我也想，既然他要走了，渥伦斯基伯爵就没有必要来这里了。不过，如果……’

‘But I’ve said so already, so why repeat it?’ Anna suddenly interrupted him with an irritation she could not succeed in repressing. ‘No sort of necessity,’ she thought, ‘for a man to come and say good-bye to the woman he loves, for whom he was ready to ruin himself, and has ruined himself, and who cannot live without him. No sort of necessity!’ she compressed her lips, and dropped her burning eyes to his hands with their swollen veins. They were rubbing each other.
“但我已经说过了，那为什么还要重复呢？”安娜突然打断了他的话，她的怒火无法抑制。 “一个男人没有必要来和他所爱的女人道别，”她想，“他已经准备好为了这个女人毁掉自己，而且已经毁掉了自己，而女人没有他就活不下去。”没必要！”她抿紧嘴唇，将灼热的目光落在他青肿的双手上。他们互相摩擦。

‘Let us never speak of it,’ she added more calmly.
“我们永远不要谈论这件事，”她平静地补充道。

‘I have left this question to you to decide, and I am very glad to see...’ Alexey Alexandrovitch was beginning.
“我把这个问题留给你来决定，我很高兴看到……”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇开始说道。

‘That my wish coincides with your own,’ she finished quickly, exasperated at his talking so slowly while she knew beforehand all he would say.
“我的愿望和你的愿望一致。”她很快就结束了，她对他说话如此缓慢感到恼火，而她事先就知道他会说的一切。

‘Yes,’ he assented; ‘and Princess Tverskaya’s interference in the most difficult private affairs is utterly uncalled for. She especially...’
“是的，”他同意道。 “而特维尔斯卡娅公主对最困难的私人事务的干涉是完全没有必要的。她尤其……”

‘I don’t believe a word of what’s said about her,’ said Anna quickly. ‘I know she really cares for me.’
“我对她的说法一个字都不相信。”安娜很快说道。 “我知道她真的很关心我。”

Alexey Alexandrovitch sighed and said nothing. She played nervously with the tassel of her dressing-gown, glancing at him with that torturing sensation of physical repulsion for which she blamed herself, though she could not control it. Her only desire now was to be rid of his oppressive presence.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇叹了口气，什么也没说。她紧张地摆弄着晨衣的流苏，用一种令人痛苦的身体排斥感看着他，她责备自己，尽管她无法控制它。她现在唯一的愿望就是摆脱他的压迫。

‘I have just sent for the doctor,’ said Alexey Alexandrovitch.
“我刚刚派人去请医生了，”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇说道。

‘I am very well; what do I want the doctor for?’
'我很好;我要找医生做什么？

‘No, the little one cries, and they say the nurse hasn’t enough milk.’
“不，小家伙哭了，他们说护士没有足够的牛奶。”

‘Why didn’t you let me nurse her, when I begged to? Anyway’ (Alexey Alexandrovitch knew what was meant by that ‘anyway’), ‘she’s a baby, and they’re killing her.’ She rang the bell and ordered the baby to be brought her. ‘I begged to nurse her, I wasn’t allowed to, and now I’m blamed for it.’
“我恳求你给她喂奶时，你为什么不让我给她喂奶呢？”无论如何”（阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇知道“无论如何”是什么意思），“她是个婴儿，他们要杀了她。”她按响了门铃，命令把婴儿带给她。 “我请求照顾她，但没有被允许，现在我因此受到指责。”

‘I don’t blame...’
“我不怪……”

‘Yes, you do blame me! My God! why didn’t I die!’ And she broke into sobs. ‘Forgive me, I’m nervous, I’m unjust,’ she said, controlling herself, ‘but do go away...’
‘是啊，你确实怪我！我的上帝！我为什么没有死！”她突然抽泣起来。 “请原谅我，我很紧张，我不公正，”她控制住自己说道，“但请走开……”

‘No, it can’t go on like this,’ Alexey Alexandrovitch said to himself decidedly as he left his wife’s room.
“不，不能再这样下去了，”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇离开妻子的房间时，坚决地对自己说。

Never had the impossibility of his position in the world’s eyes, and his wife’s hatred of him, and altogether the might of that mysterious brutal force that guided his life against his spiritual inclinations, and exacted conformity with its decrees and change in his attitude to his wife, been presented to him with such distinctness as that day. He saw clearly that all the world and his wife expected of him something, but what exactly, he could not make out. He felt that this was rousing in his soul a feeling of anger destructive of his peace of mind and of all the good of his achievement. He believed that for Anna herself it would be better to break off all relations with Vronsky; but if they all thought this out of the question, he was even ready to allow these relations to be renewed, so long as the children were not disgraced, and he was not deprived of them nor forced to change his position. Bad as this might be, it was anyway better than a rupture, which would put her in a hopeless and shameful position, and deprive him of everything he cared for. But he felt helpless; he knew beforehand that every one was against him, and that he would not be allowed to do what seemed to him now so natural and right, but would be forced to do what was wrong, though it seemed the proper thing to them.
他在世人眼中的地位从来都不是不可能的，他的妻子对他的仇恨，以及总而言之，那股神秘的残酷力量的力量引导着他的生活，违背了他的精神倾向，要求他遵守它的法令，改变了他对自己的态度。妻子，像那天一样清晰地呈现在他面前。他清楚地看到全世界和他的妻子都对他有所期待，但具体是什么，他却说不出来。他觉得这在他的灵魂中激起了一种愤怒的感觉，破坏了他内心的平静和他所取得的所有美好成就。他认为，对于安娜本人来说，最好与渥伦斯基断绝一切关系。但如果他们都认为这是不可能的，他甚至愿意允许恢复这些关系，只要孩子们不蒙羞，他不被剥夺孩子们的权利，也不被迫改变自己的立场。尽管这可能很糟糕，但无论如何，这总比破裂要好，因为破裂会让她陷入绝望和羞耻的境地，并剥夺他所关心的一切。但他却感到无助；他事先就知道每个人都反对他，他不会被允许做他现在看来如此自然和正确的事情，而是会被迫做错误的事情，尽管这对他们来说似乎是正确的事情。

Chapter 21
第21章

Before Betsy had time to walk out of the drawing-room, she was met in the doorway by Stepan Arkadyevitch, who had just come from Yeliseev’s, where a consignment of fresh oysters had been received.
贝特西还没来得及走出客厅，斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇就在门口迎接了她，他刚刚从耶利谢耶夫那里收到了一批新鲜牡蛎。

‘Ah! princess! what a delightful meeting!’ he began. ‘I’ve been to see you.’
'啊！公主！ “真是一次令人愉快的会面！”他开始说道。 “我去看过你。”

‘A meeting for one minute, for I’m going,’ said Betsy, smiling and putting on her glove.
“会议一分钟，我要走了，”贝特西微笑着戴上手套说道。

‘Don’t put on your glove yet, princess; let me kiss your hand. There’s nothing I’m so thankful to the revival of the old fashions for as the kissing the hand.’ He kissed Betsy’s hand. ‘When shall we see each other?’
“公主，先别戴上手套；让我亲吻你的手。对于旧时尚的复兴，没有什么比亲吻手更让我感激的了。”他吻了贝特西的手。 “我们什么时候见面？”

‘You don’t deserve it,’ answered Betsy, smiling.
“你不值得，”贝特西微笑着回答。

‘Oh, yes, I deserve a great deal, for I’ve become a most serious person. I don’t only manage my own affairs, but other people’s too,’ he said, with a significant expression.
‘哦，是的，我值得很多，因为我已经成为一个最认真的人。我不仅管自己的事，还管别人的事。”他表情意味深长地说。

‘Oh, I’m so glad!’ answered Betsy, at once understanding that he was speaking of Anna. And going back into the drawing room, they stood in a corner. ‘He’s killing her,’ said Betsy in a whisper full of meaning. ‘It’s impossible, impossible...’
“哦，我太高兴了！”贝特西回答道，她立刻明白他说的是安娜。回到客厅，他们站在一个角落里。 “他正在杀了她。”贝特西低声说道，意味深长。 ‘这不可能，不可能……’

‘I’m so glad you think so,’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch, shaking his head with a serious and sympathetically distressed expression, ‘that’s what I’ve come to Petersburg for.’
“我很高兴你这么想，”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇摇摇头，表情严肃而充满同情心，“这就是我来彼得堡的目的。”

‘The whole town’s talking of it,’ she said. ‘It’s an impossible position. She pines and pines away. He doesn’t understand that she’s one of those women who can’t trifle with their feelings. One of two things: either let him take her away, act with energy, or give her a divorce. This is stifling her.’
“全镇的人都在谈论这件事，”她说。 ‘这是一个不可能的位置。她日渐憔悴。他不明白她是那种不能玩弄感情的女人之一。两种选择之一：要么让他带她走，表现得有活力，要么就跟她离婚。这让她窒息。

‘Yes, yes...just so...’ Oblonsky said, sighing. ‘That’s what I’ve come for. At least not solely for that...I’ve been made a Kammerherr; of course, one has to say thank you. But the chief thing was having to settle this.’
“是的，是的……就是这样……”奥布朗斯基叹了口气说。 ‘这就是我来这里的目的。至少不仅仅是为了这个……我被任命为 Kammerherr；当然，还是要说声谢谢。但最重要的是必须解决这个问题。”

‘Well, God help you!’ said Betsy.
“好吧，上帝保佑你！”贝特西说。

After accompanying Betsy to the outside hall, once more kissing her hand above the glove, at the point where the pulse beats, and murmuring to her such unseemly nonsense that she did not know whether to laugh or be angry, Stepan Arkadyevitch went to his sister. He found her in tears.
陪着贝特西到外面的大厅，再次在脉搏跳动的地方亲吻她戴着手套的手，并对她低声说了一些不合时宜的废话，让她不知道是笑还是生气，斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇走到他妹妹身边。 。他发现她正在流泪。

Although he happened to be bubbling over with good spirits, Stepan Arkadyevitch immediately and quite naturally fell into the sympathetic, poetically emotional tone which harmonized with her mood. He asked her how she was, and how she had spent the morning.
尽管斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇碰巧兴高采烈，但他立即很自然地陷入了同情的、诗意的情感语气中，这与她的心情相协调。他问她怎么样，早上过得怎么样。

‘Very, very miserably. Today and this morning and all past days and days to come,’ she said.
‘非常非常悲惨。今天、今天早上、过去的日子和未来的日子，”她说。

‘I think you’re giving way to pessimism. You must rouse yourself, you must look life in the face. I know it’s hard, but...’
“我认为你正在屈服于悲观主义。你必须唤醒自己，你必须正视生活。我知道这很难，但是……”

‘I have heard it said that women love men even for their vices,’ Anna began suddenly, ‘but I hate him for his virtues. I can’t live with him. Do you understand? the sight of him has a physical effect on me, it makes me beside myself. I can’t, I can’t live with him. What am I to do? I have been unhappy, and used to think one couldn’t be more unhappy, but the awful state of things I am going through now, I could never have conceived. Would you believe it, that knowing he’s a good man, a splendid man, that I’m not worth his little finger, still I hate him. I hate him for his generosity. And there’s nothing left for me but...’
“我听说女人爱男人，即使是因为他们的恶习，”安娜突然说道，“但我却因为他的美德而恨他。我不能和他住在一起。你明白吗？一看到他就对我产生身体上的影响，让我发狂。我不能，我不能和他一起生活。我是什么做的？我一直不快乐，曾经以为自己再不快乐了，但我现在所经历的可怕的事情是我无法想象的。你相信吗，明知道他是一个好人，一个出色的人，我配不上他的小指头，但我仍然恨他。我恨他的慷慨。我已经一无所有了，除了……”

She would have said death, but Stepan Arkadyevitch would not let her finish.
她本想说死，但斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇不让她说完。

‘You are ill and overwrought,’ he said; ‘believe me, you’re exaggerating dreadfully. There’s nothing so terrible in it.’
“你病了，而且过度劳累，”他说。 ‘相信我，你太夸张了。这里面没有什么可怕的。

And Stepan Arkadyevitch smiled. No one else in Stepan Arkadyevitch’s place, having to do with such despair, would have ventured to smile (the smile would have seemed brutal); but in his smile there was so much of sweetness and almost feminine tenderness that his smile did not wound, but softened and soothed. His gentle, soothing words and smiles were as soothing and softening as almond oil. And Anna soon felt this.
斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇笑了。没有人在斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇的位置上，面对如此绝望的处境，会敢于微笑（这种微笑似乎很残酷）。但他的笑容充满了甜蜜和近乎女性般的温柔，他的笑容并没有伤害人，而是变得柔和和舒缓。他温柔、舒缓的言语和微笑就像杏仁油一样舒缓和柔软。安娜很快就感受到了这一点。

‘No, Stiva,’ she said, ‘I’m lost, lost! worse than lost! I can’t say yet that all is over; on the contrary, I feel that it’s not over. I’m an overstrained string that must snap. But it’s not ended yet...and it will have a fearful end.’
“不，斯蒂瓦，”她说，“我迷路了，迷路了！”比失去更糟糕！我还不能说一切都结束了；相反，我觉得事情还没有结束。我是一根过度拉紧的绳子，一定会折断。但这还没有结束……而且将会有一个可怕的结局。”

‘No matter, we must let the string be loosened, little by little. There’s no position from which there is no way of escape.’
‘不管怎样，我们必须一点一点地松开绳子。没有任何位置是无法逃脱的。”

‘I have thought, and thought. Only one...’
‘我想过，也想过。只有一个...'

Again he knew from her terrified eyes that this one way of escape in her thought was death, and he would not let her say it.
他再次从她惊恐的眼神中知道，她心中的这种逃避方式就是死亡，而他不会让她说出来。

‘Not at all,’ he said. ‘Listen to me. You can’t see your own position as I can. Let me tell you candidly my opinion.’ Again he smiled discreetly his almond-oil smile. ‘I’ll begin from the beginning. You married a man twenty years older than yourself. You married him without love and not knowing what love was. It was a mistake, let’s admit.’
“一点也不，”他说。 '听我说。你无法像我一样看到自己的立场。让我坦白地告诉你我的看法。”他再次谨慎地微笑着，露出杏仁油般的微笑。 ‘我将从头开始。你嫁给了一个比你大二十岁的男人。你嫁给了他，但没有爱，也不知道什么是爱。这是一个错误，我们承认吧。

‘A fearful mistake!’ said Anna.
“一个可怕的错误！”安娜说。

‘But I repeat, it’s an accomplished fact. Then you had, let us say, the misfortune to love a man not your husband. That was a misfortune; but that, too, is an accomplished fact. And your husband knew it and forgave it.’ He stopped at each sentence, waiting for her to object, but she made no answer. ‘That’s so. Now the question is: can you go on living with your husband? Do you wish it? Does he wish it?’
“但我再说一遍，这是既成事实。那么，比方说，你就不幸地爱了一个男人而不是你的丈夫。那真是不幸。但这也是既成事实。你的丈夫知道这一点并原谅了它。”他每说一句话就停顿一下，等待她反对，但她没有回答。 ‘是这样的。现在的问题是：你能和你的丈夫继续生活吗？你愿意吗？他愿意吗？

‘I know nothing, nothing.’
“我什么都不知道，什么都不知道。”

‘But you said yourself that you can’t endure him.’
“但你自己也说过你无法忍受他。”

‘No, I didn’t say so. I deny it. I can’t tell, I don’t know anything about it.’
‘不，我没这么说。我否认。我不知道，我对此一无所知。

‘Yes, but let...’
“是的，但是让……”

‘You can’t understand. I feel I’m lying head downwards in a sort of pit, but I ought not to save myself. And I can’t …’
‘你无法理解。我觉得我头朝下躺在一个坑里，但我不应该自救。而我不能……”

‘Never mind, we’ll slip something under and pull you out. I understand you: I understand that you can’t take it on yourself to express your wishes, your feelings.’
“没关系，我们会把东西塞到下面把你拉出来。”我理解你：我理解你不能自己表达你的愿望和感受。

‘There’s nothing, nothing I wish...except for it to be all over.’
“没有什么，我什么都不希望……除了一切都结束。”

‘But he sees this and knows it. And do you suppose it weighs on him any less than on you? You’re wretched, he’s wretched, and what good can come of it? while divorce would solve the difficulty completely.’ With some effort Stepan Arkadyevitch brought out his central idea, and looked significantly at her.
“但他看到了这一点并且知道这一点。你认为这对他的影响比对你的影响小吗？你可怜，他也可怜，这样能有什么好处呢？ ” 斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇费了好大劲才说出他的中心思想，并意味深长地看着她。

She said nothing, and shook her cropped head in dissent. But from the look in her face, that suddenly brightened into its old beauty, he saw that if she did not desire this, it was simply because it seemed to her unattainable happiness.
她什么也没说，摇了摇头表示不同意。但从她脸上突然焕发昔日美丽的神情中，他看出，如果她不渴望这一点，那只是因为这对她来说似乎是遥不可及的幸福。

‘I’m awfully sorry for you! And how happy I should be if I could arrange things!’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch, smiling more boldly. ‘Don’t speak, don’t say a word! God grant only that I may speak as I feel. I’m going to him.’
‘我真是太对不起你了！如果我能安排好事情，我该多高兴啊！”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇笑得更大胆了。 ‘别说话，别说话！愿上帝保佑我能按自己的感受说话。我要去他那儿。

Anna looked at him with dreamy, shining eyes, and said nothing.
安娜用梦幻般、闪闪发光的眼睛看着他，什么也没说。

Chapter 22
第22章

Stepan Arkadyevitch, with the same somewhat solemn expression with which he used to take his presidential chair at his board, walked into Alexey Alexandrovitch’s room. Alexey Alexandrovitch was walking about his room with his hands behind his back, thinking of just what Stepan Arkadyevitch had been discussing with his wife.
斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇走进阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇的房间，脸上带着他过去担任董事会主席时的那种庄重表情。阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇背着双手在房间里走来走去，想着斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇一直在和他妻子讨论的事情。

‘I’m not interrupting you?’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch, on the sight of his brother-in-law becoming suddenly aware of a sense of embarrassment unusual with him. To conceal this embarrassment he took out a cigarette case he had just bought that opened in a new way, and sniffing the leather, took a cigarette out of it.
“我没有打扰你吗？”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇看到他的姐夫突然感到一种对他来说不寻常的尴尬，他说道。为了掩饰尴尬，他拿出一个刚买的新打开的烟盒，嗅了嗅皮革，从里面取出了一根烟。

‘No. Do you want anything?’ Alexey Alexandrovitch asked without eagerness.
'不。你想要什么吗？”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇不急切地问道。

‘Yes, I wished...I wanted...yes, I wanted to talk to you,’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch, with surprise aware of an unaccustomed timidity.
“是的，我希望……我想……是的，我想和你谈谈。”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇说道，他惊讶地发现自己表现出了一种不寻常的胆怯。

This feeling was so unexpected and so strange that he did not believe it was the voice of conscience telling him that what he was meaning to do was wrong.
这种感觉是那么的出乎意料，那么的陌生，他不相信这是良心的声音在告诉他，他想做的事情是错误的。

Stepan Arkadyevitch made an effort and struggled with the timidity that had come over him.
斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇做出了努力，并与笼罩在他身上的胆怯作斗争。

‘I hope you believe in my love for my sister and my sincere affection and respect for you,’ he said, reddening.
“我希望你相信我对我妹妹的爱，以及我对你的真诚的感情和尊重，”他脸红了说道。

Alexey Alexandrovitch stood still and said nothing, but his face struck Stepan Arkadyevitch by its expression of an unresisting sacrifice.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇一动不动地站着，一言不发，但他脸上那种不屈不挠的牺牲表情让斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇印象深刻。

‘I intended...I wanted to have a little talk with you about my sister and your mutual position,’ he said, still struggling with an unaccustomed constraint.
“我打算……我想和你谈谈我的妹妹和你们共同的立场，”他说，仍然在与不习惯的束缚作斗争。

Alexey Alexandrovitch smiled mournfully, looked at his brother-in-law, and without answering went up to the table, took from it an unfinished letter, and handed it to his brother-in-law.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇悲伤地微笑着，看着他的姐夫，没有回答，走到桌前，从里面取出一封未写完的信，递给了他的姐夫。

‘I think unceasingly of the same thing. And here is what I had begun writing, thinking I could say it better by letter, and that my presence irritates her,’ he said, as he gave him the letter.
“我不断地思考同一件事。这就是我开始写的内容，我想我可以通过信更好地表达出来，而我的存在激怒了她，”他一边说，一边把信交给了他。

Stepan Arkadyevitch took the letter, looked with incredulous surprise at the lusterless eyes fixed so immovably on him, and began to read.
斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇接过信，难以置信地惊讶地看着那双毫无光泽的眼睛一动不动地盯着他，然后开始读起来。

‘I see that my presence is irksome to you. Painful as it is to me to believe it, I see that it is so, and cannot be otherwise. I don’t blame you, and God is my witness that on seeing you at the time of your illness I resolved with my whole heart to forget all that had passed between us and to begin a new life. I do not regret, and shall never regret, what I have done; but I have desired one thing—your good, the good of your soul—and now I see I have not attained that. Tell me yourself what will give you true happiness and peace to your soul. I put myself entirely in your hands, and trust to your feeling of what’s right.’
“我发现我的存在让你感到厌烦。尽管相信这一点对我来说是痛苦的，但我看到事实就是如此，而且不可能不是这样。我不怪你，上帝为我作证，在你生病时看到你，我全心全意地决定忘记我们之间发生的一切，开始新的生活。我不后悔，也永远不会后悔我所做的事；但我一直渴望一件事——你的利益，你灵魂的利益——但现在我发现我还没有实现这一点。告诉我你自己什么会给你的灵魂带来真正的幸福与平安。我把自己完全交给你，相信你的感觉，什么是正确的。

Stepan Arkadyevitch handed back the letter, and with the same surprise continued looking at his brother-in-law, not knowing what to say. This silence was so awkward for both of them that Stepan Arkadyevitch’s lips began twitching nervously, while he still gazed without speaking at Karenin’s face.
斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇把信还了回去，同样惊讶地继续看着他的姐夫，不知道该说什么。这种沉默让他们俩都感到很尴尬，斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇的嘴唇开始紧张地抽动着，但他仍然盯着卡列宁的脸，没有说话。

‘That’s what I wanted to say to her,’ said Alexey Alexandrovitch, turning away.
“这就是我想对她说的话，”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇说，转过身去。

‘Yes, yes...’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch, not able to answer for the tears that were choking him.
“是的，是的……”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇说，泪水噎住了他，他无法回答。

‘Yes, yes, I understand you,’ he brought out at last.
“是的，是的，我理解你，”他最后说道。

‘I want to know what she would like,’ said Alexey Alexandrovitch.
“我想知道她想要什么，”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇说。

‘I am afraid she does not understand her own position. She is not a judge,’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch, recovering himself. ‘She is crushed, simply crushed by your generosity. If she were to read this letter, she would be incapable of saying anything, she would only hang her head lower than ever.’
‘恐怕她不明白自己的立场。她不是法官。”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇恢复了平静说道。 “她被你的慷慨击垮了，简直被你的慷慨击垮了。”如果她看到这封信，她会说不出话来，只会把头垂得更低。

‘Yes, but what’s to be done in that case? how explain, how find out her wishes?’
‘是啊，但是这种情况下该怎么办呢？怎么解释，怎么知道她的意愿？

‘If you will allow me to give my opinion, I think that it lies with you to point out directly the steps you consider necessary to end the position.’
“如果您允许我发表意见，我认为您有责任直接指出您认为结束该职位所需的步骤。”

‘So you consider it must be ended?’ Alexey Alexandrovitch interrupted him. ‘But how?’ he added, with a gesture of his hands before his eyes not usual with him. ‘I see no possible way out of it.’
“所以你认为这件事必须结束？”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇打断了他。 “但是怎么做呢？”他补充道，双手放在眼前，这对他来说并不常见。 “我看不出有什么办法可以摆脱它。”

‘There is some way of getting out of every position,’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch, standing up and becoming more cheerful. ‘There was a time when you thought of breaking off.... If you are convinced now that you cannot make each other happy...’
“每个位置都有办法摆脱，”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇站起来，变得更加高兴了。 “曾经有一段时间你想过分手……如果你现在确信你们不能让彼此幸福……”

‘Happiness may be variously understood. But suppose that I agree to everything, that I want nothing: what way is there of getting out of our position?’
“幸福可以有不同的理解。但假设我同意一切，我什么都不想要：有什么方法可以摆脱我们的立场呢？

‘If you care to know my opinion,’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch with the same smile of softening, almond-oil tenderness with which he had been talking to Anna. His kindly smile was so winning that Alexey Alexandrovitch, feeling his own weakness and unconsciously swayed by it, was ready to believe what Stepan Arkadyevitch was saying.
“如果你想知道我的意见的话，”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇说道，脸上带着他和安娜说话时同样温和的、杏仁油般的温柔微笑。他和善的笑容是如此迷人，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇感觉到了自己的弱点，并不知不觉地被它所动摇，准备相信斯捷潘·阿尔卡季维奇所说的话。

‘She will never speak out about it. But one thing is possible, one thing she might desire,’ he went on, ‘that is the cessation of your relations and all memories associated with them. To my thinking, in your position what’s essential is the formation of a new attitude to one another. And that can only rest on a basis of freedom on both sides.’
“她永远不会说出来。但有一件事是可能的，她可能希望的一件事，”他继续说道，“那就是你们的关系以及与他们相关的所有记忆的终止。我认为，在你的立场上，最重要的是形成一种新的彼此态度。这只能建立在双方自由的基础上。”

‘Divorce,’ Alexey Alexandrovitch interrupted, in a tone of aversion.
“离婚，”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇用厌恶的语气打断道。

‘Yes, I imagine that divorce—yes, divorce,’ Stepan Arkadyevitch repeated, reddening. ‘That is from every point of view the most rational course for married people who find themselves in the position you are in. What can be done if married people find that life is impossible for them together? That may always happen.’
“是的，我想象着离婚——是的，离婚。”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇红着脸重复道。 “从各个角度来看，对于处于你现在处境的已婚人士来说，这都是最理性的做法。如果已婚人士发现他们无法共同生活，该怎么办？这可能总是会发生。

Alexey Alexandrovitch sighed heavily and closed his eyes.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇重重地叹了口气，闭上了眼睛。

‘There’s only one point to be considered: is either of the parties desirous of forming new ties? If not, it is very simple,’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch, feeling more and more free from constraint.
“只有一点需要考虑：双方是否愿意建立新的关系？如果没有，那就很简单了。”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇说道，他感觉自己越来越不受约束了。

Alexey Alexandrovitch, scowling with emotion, muttered something to himself, and made no answer. All that seemed so simple to Stepan Arkadyevitch, Alexey Alexandrovitch had thought over thousands of times. And, so far from being simple, it all seemed to him utterly impossible. Divorce, the details of which he knew by this time, seemed to him now out of the question, because the sense of his own dignity and respect for religion forbade his taking upon himself a fictitious charge of adultery, and still more suffering his wife, pardoned and beloved by him, to be caught in the fact and put to public shame. Divorce appeared to him impossible also on other still more weighty grounds.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇激动地皱起了眉头，自言自语了些什么，但没有回答。这一切对斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇来说似乎都很简单，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇已经思考了数千次。而且，这一切对他来说绝非简单，而是完全不可能的。离婚，他此时已经知道了细节，现在对他来说似乎是不可能的，因为他自己的尊严感和对宗教的尊重禁止他对自己提出通奸的虚假指控，并让他的妻子更加痛苦，受到他的宽恕和爱戴，却被揭露并受到公众的羞辱。在他看来，离婚在其他更重要的理由上也是不可能的。

What would become of his son in case of a divorce? To leave him with his mother was out of the question. The divorced mother would have her own illegitimate family, in which his position as a stepson and his education would not be good. Keep him with him? He knew that would be an act of vengeance on his part, and that he did not want. But apart from this, what more than all made divorce seem impossible to Alexey Alexandrovitch was, that by consenting to a divorce he would be completely ruining Anna. The saying of Darya Alexandrovna at Moscow, that in deciding on a divorce he was thinking of himself, and not considering that by this he would be ruining her irrevocably, had sunk into his heart. And connecting this saying with his forgiveness of her, with his devotion to the children, he understood it now in his own way. To consent to a divorce, to give her her freedom, meant in his thoughts to take from himself the last tie that bound him to life—the children whom he loved; and to take from her the last prop that stayed her on the path of right, to thrust her down to her ruin. If she were divorced, he knew she would join her life to Vronsky’s, and their tie would be an illegitimate and criminal one, since a wife, by the interpretation of the ecclesiastical law, could not marry while her husband was living. ‘She will join him, and in a year or two he will throw her over, or she will form a new tie,’ thought Alexey Alexandrovitch. ‘And I, by agreeing to an unlawful divorce, shall be to blame for her ruin.’ He had thought it all over hundreds of times, and was convinced that a divorce was not at all simple, as Stepan Arkadyevitch had said, but was utterly impossible. He did not believe a single word Stepan Arkadyevitch said to him; to every word he had a thousand objections to make, but he listened to him, feeling that his words were the expression of that mighty brutal force which controlled his life and to which he would have to submit.
如果离婚，儿子会怎样？把他留给他母亲是不可能的。离婚的母亲会有自己的私生子家庭，他作为继子的地位和教育都不会很好。把他留在身边吗？他知道这对他来说是一种报复行为，而他不想这样做。但除此之外，最让阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇觉得离婚不可能的原因是，如果他同意离婚，他就会彻底毁了安娜。达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜在莫斯科说过的话，他在决定离婚时是为自己着想，没有考虑到这样做会不可挽回地毁掉她，这句话已经深深地印在了他的心里。将这句话与他对她的宽恕，与他对孩子们的奉献联系起来，他现在以自己的方式理解它。同意离婚，给她自由，在他看来，就意味着从他自己身上夺走了束缚他生命的最后一条纽带——他所爱的孩子；夺走她走在正确道路上的最后一根支柱，把她推向毁灭。如果她离婚，他知道她将与渥伦斯基的生活结合起来，他们的关系将是非法的和犯罪的，因为根据教会法的解释，妻子在丈夫活着的时候不能结婚。 “她会加入他，一两年后他就会把她扔掉，或者她会形成新的关系，”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇想。 “而我，同意非法离婚，应该为她的毁灭负责。”他已经想了数百次，并确信离婚根本不像斯捷潘·阿尔卡季维奇所说的那么简单，而是完全不可能。 他不相信斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇对他说的任何一句话。他对每一个字都有一千种反对意见，但他听着他的话，觉得他的话是控制他生活、他必须屈服的强大残酷力量的表达。

‘The only question is on what terms you agree to give her a divorce. She does not want anything, does not dare ask you for anything, she leaves it all to your generosity.’
“唯一的问题是你同意以什么条件与她离婚。她什么都不要，也不敢向你要什么，全靠你的慷慨。”

‘My God, my God! what for?’ thought Alexey Alexandrovitch, remembering the details of divorce proceedings in which the husband took the blame on himself, and with just the same gesture with which Vronsky had done the same, he hid his face for shame in his hands.
‘我的上帝，我的上帝！ “为什么？”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇想道，他想起了离婚诉讼的细节，丈夫将责任归咎于自己，他以与渥伦斯基相同的姿势，用双手捂住了脸，感到羞愧。

‘You are distressed, I understand that. But if you think it over...’
‘你很难过，我理解。但如果你仔细想想……”

‘Whosoever shall smite thee on thy right cheek, turn to him the other also; and if any man take away thy coat, let him have thy cloak also,’ thought Alexey Alexandrovitch.
‘谁打你的右脸，连左脸也转过来由他打；如果有人拿走了你的外套，就让他也拿走你的斗篷吧。”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇想。

‘Yes, yes!’ he cried in a shrill voice. ‘I will take the disgrace on myself, I will give up even my son, but...but wouldn’t it be better to let it alone? Still you may do as you like...’
“是的，是的！”他尖声喊道。 ‘我会自己承担耻辱，连我的儿子我都会放弃，但是……但是，不去管它不是更好吗？不过你可以随心所欲地做……”

And turning away so that his brother-in-law could not see him, he sat down on a chair at the window. There was bitterness, there was shame in his heart, but with bitterness and shame he felt joy and emotion at the height of his own meekness.
他转过身，不让姐夫看到他，然后在窗边的椅子上坐下。他的心里有苦涩，有羞耻，但在苦涩和羞耻中，他在自己的温柔中感受到了喜悦和情感。

Stepan Arkadyevitch was touched. He was silent for a space.
斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇很感动。他沉默了一会儿。

‘Alexey Alexandrovitch, believe me, she appreciates your generosity,’ he said. ‘But it seems it was the will of God,’ he added, and as he said it felt how foolish a remark it was, and with difficulty repressed a smile at his own foolishness.
“阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇，相信我，她很感激你的慷慨，”他说。 “但这似乎是上帝的旨意，”他补充道，当他说这句话的时候，他感觉这是多么愚蠢的一句话，他很难抑制住对自己愚蠢的微笑。

Alexey Alexandrovitch would have made some reply, but tears stopped him.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇本想回答一下，但泪水阻止了他。

‘This is an unhappy fatality, and one must accept it as such. I accept the calamity as an accomplished fact, and am doing my best to help both her and you,’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch.
“这是一种不幸的命运，人们必须接受它。我接受这场灾难作为既成事实，并尽全力帮助她和你。”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇说道。

When he went out of his brother-in-law’s room he was touched, but that did not prevent him from being glad he had successfully brought the matter to a conclusion, for he felt certain Alexey Alexandrovitch would not go back on his words. To this satisfaction was added the fact that an idea had just struck him for a riddle turning on his successful achievement, that when the affair was over he would ask his wife and most intimate friends. He put this riddle into two or three different ways. ‘But I’ll work it out better than that,’ he said to himself with a smile.
当他走出姐夫的房间时，他很感动，但这并不妨碍他很高兴自己成功地解决了这件事，因为他确信阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇不会食言。令他感到满意的是，他刚刚想到了一个想法，可以解开他成功成就的谜语，当这件事结束后，他会问他的妻子和最亲密的朋友。他把这个谜语分成两三种不同的方式。 “但我会做得更好，”他微笑着对自己说。

Chapter 23
第23章

Vronsky’s wound had been a dangerous one, though it did not touch the heart, and for several days he had lain between life and death. The first time he was able to speak, Varya, his brother’s wife, was alone in the room.
渥伦斯基的伤口虽然没有触及心脏，但很危险，几天来他一直处于生死攸关的境地。当他第一次说话时，他哥哥的妻子瓦里亚（Varya）独自一人在房间里。

‘Varya,’ he said, looking sternly at her, ‘I shot myself by accident. And please never speak of it, and tell everyone so. Or else it’s too ridiculous.’
“瓦莉亚，”他严厉地看着她，“我不小心开枪自杀了。”请永远不要谈论它，并告诉所有人。不然就太可笑了。”

Without answering his words, Varya bent over him, and with a delighted smile gazed into his face. His eyes were clear, not feverish; but their expression was stern.
瓦莉亚没有回答他的话，而是弯下身子，带着喜悦的微笑凝视着他的脸。他的眼睛清澈，没有发烧；但他们的表情却很严肃。

‘Thank God!’ she said. ‘You’re not in pain?’
“感谢上帝！”她说。 “你不疼吗？”

‘A little here.’ He pointed to his breast.
“这里一点。”他指着自己的胸部。

‘Then let me change your bandages.’
“那我给你换绷带吧。”

In silence, stiffening his broad jaws, he looked at her while she bandaged him up. When she had finished he said:
当她给他包扎时，他默默地绷着宽大的下巴，看着她。当她说完后，他说：

‘I’m not delirious. Please manage that there may be no talk of my having shot myself on purpose.’
‘我没有神志不清。请注意不要让人们谈论我故意开枪自杀。

‘No one does say so. Only I hope you won’t shoot yourself by accident any more,’ she said, with a questioning smile.
‘没有人这么说。只是我希望你不要再意外开枪自杀了。”她带着疑问的微笑说道。

‘Of course I won’t, but it would have been better...’
“我当然不会，但那样会更好……”

And he smiled gloomily.
而他却阴郁地笑了笑。

In spite of these words and this smile, which so frightened Varya, when the inflammation was over and he began to recover, he felt that he was completely free from one part of his misery. By his action he had, as it were, washed away the shame and humiliation he had felt before. He could now think calmly of Alexey Alexandrovitch. He recognized all his magnanimity, but he did not now feel himself humiliated by it. Besides, he got back again into the beaten track of his life. He saw the possibility of looking men in the face again without shame, and he could live in accordance with his own habits. One thing he could not pluck out of his heart, though he never ceased struggling with it, was the regret, amounting to despair, that he had lost her forever. That now, having expiated his sin against the husband, he was bound to renounce her, and never in future to stand between her with her repentance and her husband, he had firmly decided in his heart; but he could not tear out of his heart his regret at the loss of her love, he could not erase from his memory those moments of happiness that he had so little prized at the time, and that haunted him in all their charm.
尽管这些话和这个微笑让瓦里娅如此害怕，但当炎症结束并且他开始康复时，他感到自己完全摆脱了痛苦的一部分。他的行动，可以说洗刷了他之前所感受到的耻辱和屈辱。他现在可以平静地想起阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇了。他承认他的宽宏大量，但现在他并不觉得自己因此而受到羞辱。此外，他又回到了原来的生活轨道。他看到了再次毫无羞耻地正视男人的可能性，他可以按照自己的习惯生活。尽管他从未停止过挣扎，但他无法从心中拔出一件事，那就是他永远失去了她，这几乎是绝望。现在，他已经赎清了对丈夫的罪孽，他一定要与她断绝关系，以后再也不会站在她悔改的她和她丈夫之间了，他心里已经下定决心了。但他无法从内心深处抹去失去她的爱所带来的遗憾，他无法从记忆中抹去那些他当时很少珍惜的幸福时刻，它们的魅力一直困扰着他。

Serpuhovskoy had planned his appointment at Tashkend, and Vronsky agreed to the proposition without the slightest hesitation. But the nearer the time of departure came, the bitterer was the sacrifice he was making to what he thought his duty.
谢尔普霍夫斯科伊计划了他在塔什干的任命，渥伦斯基毫不犹豫地同意了这个提议。但离开的时间越临近，他为自己认为的职责所做的牺牲就越痛苦。

His wound had healed, and he was driving about making preparations for his departure for Tashkend.
他的伤口已经痊愈，他正在开车准备前往塔什干。

‘To see her once and then to bury myself, to die,’ he thought, and as he was paying farewell visits, he uttered this thought to Betsy. Charged with this commission, Betsy had gone to Anna, and brought him back a negative reply.
“见她一次，然后埋葬自己，死去，”他想，当他告别拜访时，他向贝特西说出了这个想法。贝特西负责这项任务，她去找安娜，但给他带来了否定的答复。

‘So much the better,’ thought Vronsky, when he received the news. ‘It was a weakness, which would have shattered what strength I have left.’
当渥伦斯基收到这个消息时，他想：“那就更好了。” “这是一个弱点，它会粉碎我仅存的力量。”

Next day Betsy herself came to him in the morning, and announced that she had heard through Oblonsky as a positive fact that Alexey Alexandrovitch had agreed to a divorce, and that therefore Vronsky could see Anna.
第二天早上，贝特西亲自来找他，并宣布她通过奥布隆斯基得知阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇已同意离婚，因此她可以见到安娜。

Without even troubling himself to see Betsy out of his flat, forgetting all his resolutions, without asking when he could see her, where her husband was, Vronsky drove straight to the Karenins’. He ran up the stairs seeing no one and nothing, and with a rapid step, almost breaking into a run, he went into her room. And without considering, without noticing whether there was anyone in the room or not, he flung his arms round her, and began to cover her face, her hands, her neck with kisses.
渥伦斯基甚至没有费力送贝特西离开他的公寓，忘记了他所有的决心，也没有问什么时候可以见到她，她的丈夫在哪里，就直接开车去了卡列宁家。他跑上楼梯，看不到任何人，什么也没有，然后他迈着快步，几乎是小跑，走进了她的房间。他没有考虑，也没有注意到房间里是否有人，他用双臂搂住了她，开始亲吻她的脸、手和脖子。

Anna had been preparing herself for this meeting, had thought what she would say to him, but she did not succeed in saying anything of it; his passion mastered her. She tried to calm him, to calm herself, but it was too late. His feeling infected her. Her lips trembled so that for a long while she could say nothing.
安娜一直在为这次会面做准备，想过她要对他说些什么，但她没有成功地说出任何话。他的热情征服了她。她试图让他平静下来，也想让自己平静下来，但已经太晚了。他的感觉感染了她。她的嘴唇颤抖着，好半天说不出话来。

‘Yes, you have conquered me, and I am yours,’ she said at last, pressing his hands to her bosom.
“是的，你征服了我，我是你的了，”她最后说道，把他的手按在她的怀里。

‘So it had to be,’ he said. ‘So long as we live, it must be so. I know it now.’
“所以一定是这样，”他说。 ‘只要我们还活着，就必须如此。我现在知道了。

‘That’s true,’ she said, getting whiter and whiter, and embracing his head. ‘Still there is something terrible in it after all that has happened.’
“确实如此，”她说，脸色越来越白，抱住了他的头。 “在发生了这一切之后，里面仍然有一些可怕的东西。”

‘It will all pass, it will all pass; we shall be so happy. Our love, if it could be stronger, will be strengthened by there being something terrible in it,’ he said, lifting his head and parting his strong teeth in a smile.
‘一切都会过去，一切都会过去；我们会很高兴的。我们的爱，如果可以更强烈的话，会因为里面有一些可怕的东西而变得更加坚强。”他抬起头，微笑着分开坚固的牙齿。

And she could not but respond with a smile—not to his words, but to the love in his eyes. She took his hand and stroked her chilled cheeks and cropped head with it.
她情不自禁地报以微笑——不是对他的话，而是对他眼中的爱。她握住他的手，抚摸着她冰冷的脸颊，并用它低着头。

‘I don’t know you with this short hair. You’ve grown so pretty. A boy. But how pale you are!’
“我不认识你这个短发。”你已经长得这么漂亮了。一个男孩。但你的脸色多么苍白啊！

‘Yes, I’m very weak,’ she said, smiling. And her lips began trembling again.
“是的，我很虚弱，”她微笑着说。她的嘴唇又开始颤抖。

‘We’ll go to Italy; you will get strong,’ he said.
“我们要去意大利；你会变得坚强，”他说。

‘Can it be possible we could be like husband and wife, alone, your family with you?’ she said, looking close into his eyes.
“我们有没有可能像夫妻一样，独自一人，你的家人和你在一起？”她说，近距离地看着他的眼睛。

‘It only seems strange to me that it can ever have been otherwise.’
“我觉得很奇怪，事情本来可以是别的样子。”

‘Stiva says that he has agreed to everything, but I can’t accept his generosity,’ she said, looking dreamily past Vronsky’s face. ‘I don’t want a divorce; it’s all the same to me now. Only I don’t know what he will decide about Seryozha.’
“斯蒂瓦说他已经同意了一切，但我不能接受他的慷慨，”她说道，目光越过渥伦斯基的脸。 “我不想离婚；现在对我来说都一样了。只是我不知道他会对谢廖扎做出什么决定。

He could not conceive how at this moment of their meeting she could remember and think of her son, of divorce. What did it all matter?
他无法想象，在他们见面的这一刻，她怎么会想起并想起她的儿子，想起离婚。这一切有什么关系呢？

‘Don’t speak of that, don’t think of it,’ he said, turning her hand in his, and trying to draw her attention to him; but still she did not look at him.
“别说这个，别想这个，”他说着，把她的手交到他手里，试图把她的注意力吸引到他身上。但她仍然没有看他。

‘Oh, why didn’t I die! it would have been better,’ she said, and silent tears flowed down both her cheeks; but she tried to smile, so as not to wound him.
‘唉，我怎么没死啊！ “那就更好了。”她说，泪水无声地顺着她的脸颊流了下来。但她努力微笑，以免伤害他。

To decline the flattering and dangerous appointment at Tashkend would have been, Vronsky had till then considered, disgraceful and impossible. But now, without an instant’s consideration, he declined it, and observing dissatisfaction in the most exalted quarters at this step, he immediately retired from the army.
渥伦斯基在此之前一直认为，拒绝塔什干这一令人奉承且危险的任命是可耻的，也是不可能的。但现在，他不假思索地拒绝了，看到最高层对此的不满，他立即退出了军队。

A month later Alexey Alexandrovitch was left alone with his son in his house at Petersburg, while Anna and Vronsky had gone abroad, not having obtained a divorce, but having absolutely declined all idea of one.
一个月后，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇和他的儿子独自留在彼得堡的家里，而安娜和渥伦斯基则出国了，没有离婚，但完全拒绝了离婚的想法。

PART 5
第5部分

Chapter 1
第1章

Princess Shtcherbatskaya considered that it was out of the question for the wedding to take place before Lent, just five weeks off, since not half the trousseau could possibly be ready by that time. But she could not but agree with Levin that to fix it for after Lent would be putting it off too late, as an old aunt of Prince Shtcherbatsky’s was seriously ill and might die, and then the mourning would delay the wedding still longer. And therefore, deciding to divide the trousseau into two parts—a larger and smaller trousseau—the princess consented to have the wedding before Lent. She determined that she would get the smaller part of the trousseau all ready now, and the larger part should be made later, and she was much vexed with Levin because he was incapable of giving her a serious answer to the question whether he agreed to this arrangement or not. The arrangement was the more suitable as, immediately after the wedding, the young people were to go to the country, where the more important part of the trousseau would not be wanted.
谢尔巴茨卡娅公主认为，婚礼不可能在四旬斋前举行，距四旬斋只有五个星期的假期，因为到那时，嫁妆可能还没有准备好一半。但她不得不同意莱文的观点，即把婚礼推迟到四旬斋之后就太晚了，因为谢尔巴茨基王子的一位老姑妈病得很重，可能会死，然后哀悼会使婚礼推迟得更久。因此，公主决定将嫁妆分成两部分——一个较大的嫁妆和一个较小的嫁妆——同意在四旬斋前举行婚礼。她决定现在就把嫁妆的较小部分准备好，较大的部分应该稍后制作，她对莱文很恼火，因为他无法认真回答她是否同意这个问题安排与否。这样的安排比较合适，因为婚礼结束后，年轻人就要去乡下，那里不需要嫁妆中更重要的部分。

Levin still continued in the same delirious condition in which it seemed to him that he and his happiness constituted the chief and sole aim of all existence, and that he need not now think or care about anything, that everything was being done and would be done for him by others. He had not even plans and aims for the future, he left its arrangement to others, knowing that everything would be delightful. His brother Sergey Ivanovitch, Stepan Arkadyevitch, and the princess guided him in doing what he had to do. All he did was to agree entirely with everything suggested to him. His brother raised money for him, the princess advised him to leave Moscow after the wedding. Stepan Arkadyevitch advised him to go abroad. He agreed to everything. ‘Do what you choose, if it amuses you. I’m happy, and my happiness can be no greater and no less for anything you do,’ he thought. When he told Kitty of Stepan Arkadyevitch’s advice that they should go abroad, he was much surprised that she did not agree to this, and had some definite requirements of her own in regard to their future. She knew Levin had work he loved in the country. She did not, as he saw, understand this work, she did not even care to understand it. But that did not prevent her from regarding it as a matter of great importance. And then she knew their home would be in the country, and she wanted to go, not abroad where she was not going to live, but to the place where their home would be. This definitely expressed purpose astonished Levin. But since he did not care either way, he immediately asked Stepan Arkadyevitch, as though it were his duty, to go down to the country and to arrange everything there to the best of his ability with the taste of which he had so much.
莱文仍然继续处于同样的神志不清的状态，在这种状态下，他觉得他和他的幸福构成了一切存在的主要和唯一的目标，他现在不需要思考或关心任何事情，一切都正在发生并且将会发生别人为他。他对未来连计划和目标都没有，把安排交给别人，知道一切都会很美好。他的兄弟谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇、斯捷潘·阿尔卡季维奇和公主指导他做他必须做的事情。他所做的只是完全同意向他提出的一切建议。他的哥哥为他筹集了资金，公主建议他在婚礼后离开莫斯科。斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇建议他出国。他同意了一切。 ‘做你选择的事，如果它让你开心的话。我很高兴，无论你做什么，我的幸福都不会更大也不会更小，”他想。当他把斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇关于他们应该出国的建议告诉基蒂时，他很惊讶她不同意，并对他们的未来提出了一些明确的要求。她知道莱文在乡下有他喜欢的工作。正如他所见，她并不理解这项工作，她甚至不想理解它。但这并不妨碍她将这件事视为一件非常重要的事情。然后她知道他们的家将在乡下，她想去的不是她不打算居住的国外，而是他们的家所在的地方。这种明确表达的目的让莱文感到惊讶。但既然他不在乎，他立即要求斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇去乡下，按照他的职责，按照他的品味，尽力安排那里的一切。

‘But I say,’ Stepan Arkadyevitch said to him one day after he had come back from the country, where he had got everything ready for the young people’s arrival, ‘have you a certificate of having been at confession?’
“但是我要说，”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇从乡下回来后对他说，他已经为年轻人的到来做好了一切准备，“你有认罪证明吗？”

‘No. But what of it?’
'不。但那又怎样呢？

‘You can’t be married without it.’
“没有它你就不能结婚。”

‘Aie, aie, aie!’ cried Levin. ‘Why, I believe it’s nine years since I’ve taken the sacrament! I never thought of it.’
“哎呀，哎呀，哎呀！”莱文喊道。 ‘哎呀，我相信自从我领受圣餐以来已经九年了！我从来没有想过。

‘You’re a pretty fellow!’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch laughing, ‘and you call me a Nihilist! But this won’t do, you know. You must take the sacrament.’
“你是个漂亮小伙子！”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇笑着说，“你却称我为虚无主义者！”但这是不行的，你知道。你必须接受圣餐。

‘When? There are four days left now.’
'什么时候？现在还剩下四天。

Stepan Arkadyevitch arranged this also, and Levin had to go to confession. To Levin, as to any unbeliever who respects the beliefs of others, it was exceedingly disagreeable to be present at and take part in church ceremonies. At this moment, in his present softened state of feeling, sensitive to everything, this inevitable act of hypocrisy was not merely painful to Levin, it seemed to him utterly impossible. Now, in the heyday of his highest glory, his fullest flower, he would have to be a liar or a scoffer. He felt incapable of being either. But though he repeatedly plied Stepan Arkadyevitch with questions as to the possibility of obtaining a certificate without actually communicating, Stepan Arkadyevitch maintained that it was out of the question.
斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇也安排了这件事，列文不得不去忏悔。对于莱文来说，对于任何尊重他人信仰的非信徒来说，出席和参加教堂仪式是极其不愉快的。此刻，在他目前的感情软化状态，对一切都很敏感的情况下，这种不可避免的虚伪行为对莱文来说不仅是痛苦的，而且对他来说似乎是完全不可能的。现在，在他的最高荣耀、最盛放的全盛时期，他将不得不成为一个骗子或一个嘲笑者。他觉得两者都无能为力。但是，尽管他一再向斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇询问是否有可能在没有实际沟通的情况下获得证书，但斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇坚持认为这是不可能的。

‘Besides, what is it to you—two days? And he’s an awfully nice clever old fellow. He’ll pull the tooth out for you so gently, you won’t notice it.’
“再说了，两天对你来说又算什么呢？”他是一个非常友善、聪明的老家伙。他会轻轻地为你拔牙，你不会注意到。

Standing at the first litany, Levin attempted to revive in himself his youthful recollections of the intense religious emotion he had passed through between the ages of sixteen and seventeen.
站在第一段祷文中，莱文试图在自己的内心中唤起他年轻时的回忆，即他在十六岁到十七岁之间所经历的强烈的宗教情感。

But he was at once convinced that it was utterly impossible to him. He attempted to look at it all as an empty custom, having no sort of meaning, like the custom of paying calls. But he felt that he could not do that either. Levin found himself, like the majority of his contemporaries, in the vaguest position in regard to religion. Believe he could not, and at the same time he had no firm conviction that it was all wrong. And consequently, not being able to believe in the significance of what he was doing nor to regard it with indifference as an empty formality, during the whole period of preparing for the sacrament he was conscious of a feeling of discomfort and shame at doing what he did not himself understand, and what, as an inner voice told him, was therefore false and wrong.
但他立刻确信这对他来说是完全不可能的。他试图将这一切视为一种空洞的习俗，没有任何意义，就像打电话的习俗一样。但他觉得自己也做不到。莱文发现自己像大多数同时代人一样，在宗教问题上处于最模糊的立场。相信他不能，同时他也没有坚定地相信这一切都是错的。因此，在准备圣礼的整个过程中，他既无法相信自己所做的事情的意义，也无法冷漠地将其视为空洞的形式，他对自己所做的事情感到一种不舒服和羞愧的感觉。他自己并不明白，而正如内心的声音告诉他的那样，那是虚假和错误的。

During the service he would first listen to the prayers, trying to attach some meaning to them not discordant with his own views; then feeling that he could not understand and must condemn them, he tried not to listen to them, but to attend to the thoughts, observations, and memories which floated through his brain with extreme vividness during this idle time of standing in church.
在礼拜过程中，他首先会聆听祈祷文，试图赋予它们一些不与他自己的观点不一致的含义；然后，他觉得自己无法理解，必须谴责他们，于是他尽量不去听他们的说法，而是去关注那些站在教堂闲暇时间里极其生动地浮现在他脑海中的想法、观察和记忆。

He had stood through the litany, the evening service and the midnight service, and the next day he got up earlier than usual, and without having tea went at eight o’clock in the morning to the church for the morning service and the confession.
他坚持听完连祷文、晚间礼拜和半夜礼拜，第二天他比平时起得更早，早上八点没喝茶就去教堂参加晨祷和忏悔。

There was no one in the church but a beggar soldier, two old women, and the church officials. A young deacon, whose long back showed in two distinct halves through his thin undercassock, met him, and at once going to a little table at the wall read the exhortation. During the reading, especially at the frequent and rapid repetition of the same words, ‘Lord, have mercy on us!’ which resounded with an echo, Levin felt that thought was shut and sealed up, and that it must not be touched or stirred now or confusion would be the result; and so standing behind the deacon he went on thinking of his own affairs, neither listening nor examining what was said. ‘It’s wonderful what expression there is in her hand,’ he thought, remembering how they had been sitting the day before at a corner table. They had nothing to talk about, as was almost always the case at this time, and laying her hand on the table she kept opening and shutting it, and laughed herself as she watched her action. He remembered how he had kissed it and then had examined the lines on the pink palm. ‘Have mercy on us again!’ thought Levin, crossing himself, bowing, and looking at the supple spring of the deacon’s back bowing before him. ‘She took my hand then and examined the lines ‘You’ve got a splendid hand,’ she said.’ And he looked at his own hand and the short hand of the deacon. ‘Yes, now it will soon be over,’ he thought. ‘No, it seems to be beginning again,’ he thought, listening to the prayers. ‘No, it’s just ending: there he is bowing down to the ground. That’s always at the end.’
教堂里除了一名乞丐士兵、两个老妇人和教堂官员外，空无一人。一位年轻的执事遇见了他，他的长背透过薄薄的袈裟显露出来，分成两半，立刻走到靠墙的一张小桌子旁宣读了劝告。在阅读过程中，尤其是在回响中频繁而快速地重复“主啊，怜悯我们！”的同一句话时，莱文感到思想被关闭和封闭，不能被触及或搅动。现在否则就会造成混乱；于是，他站在执事身后，继续想着自己的事情，既不听也不去审视他所说的话。 “她手里的表情真是太棒了，”他想道，想起前一天他们坐在角落桌子旁的情景。他们无话可说，此时几乎总是这样，她把手放在桌子上，不断地打开和关闭它，看着她的动作，她自己也笑了。他记得自己是如何亲吻它，然后检查粉红色手掌上的线条的。 “再次怜悯我们吧！”列文一边想，一边在胸前画着十字，鞠躬，看着在他面前鞠躬的执事那柔软的背脊。 “然后她握住我的手，检查了下面的诗句：‘你有一只出色的手，’她说。”他看着自己的手和执事的短手。 “是的，现在一切很快就会结束了，”他想。 “不，似乎又开始了，”他边听着祈祷边想。 “不，这才刚刚结束：他跪倒在地。”那总是在最后。

The deacon’s hand in a plush cuff accepted a three-rouble note unobtrusively, and the deacon said he would put it down in the register, and his new boots creaking jauntily over the flagstones of the empty church, he went to the altar. A moment later he peeped out thence and beckoned to Levin. Thought, till then locked up, began to stir in Levin’s head, but he made haste to drive it away. ‘It will come right somehow,’ he thought, and went towards the altar-rails. He went up the steps, and turning to the right saw the priest. The priest, a little old man with a scanty grizzled beard and weary, good-natured eyes, was standing at the altar-rails, turning over the pages of a missal. With a slight bow to Levin he began immediately reading prayers in the official voice. When he had finished them he bowed down to the ground and turned, facing Levin.
执事戴着毛绒袖口的手毫不引人注目地接过一张三卢布的钞票，执事说他会把它放在收银机里，他的新靴子在空荡荡的教堂的石板路上欢快地吱吱作响，他走向祭坛。过了一会儿，他从那里向外张望，向莱文招手。此前一直被锁住的想法开始在列文的脑海中搅动，但他赶紧把它赶走。 “不知怎的，一切都会好起来的，”他想道，然后走向祭坛栏杆。他走上台阶，向右转，看到了牧师。神父是个身材矮小的老人，胡子稀疏，灰白的胡须，一双疲惫而善良的眼睛，站在祭坛栏杆旁，翻着一本弥撒书。他向莱文微微鞠了一躬，立即开始用正式的声音朗读祈祷文。说完后，他跪倒在地，转身面向莱文。

‘Christ is present here unseen, receiving your confession,’ he said, pointing to the crucifix. ‘Do you believe in all the doctrines of the Holy Apostolic Church?’ the priest went on, turning his eyes away from Levin’s face and folding his hands under his stole.
“基督就在这里，看不见，接受你的忏悔，”他指着十字架说道。 “你相信圣使徒教会的所有教义吗？”神父继续说道，他的目光从莱文的脸上移开，双手交叉在圣带下面。

‘I have doubted, I doubt everything,’ said Levin in a voice that jarred on himself, and he ceased speaking.
“我怀疑过，我怀疑一切。”列文用一种让自己感到不舒服的声音说道，然后就不再说话了。

The priest waited a few seconds to see if he would not say more, and closing his eyes he said quickly, with a broad, Vladimirsky accent:
神父等了几秒钟，看他是否不再再说下去，然后闭上眼睛，用浓重的弗拉基米尔斯基口音快速说道：

‘Doubt is natural to the weakness of mankind, but we must pray that God in His mercy will strengthen us. What are your special sins?’ he added, without the slightest interval, as though anxious not to waste time.
“怀疑是人类的弱点，但我们必须祈祷上帝以他的仁慈来增强我们的力量。你有什么特别的罪过？”他没有丝毫停顿地补充道，仿佛不想浪费时间。

‘My chief sin is doubt. I have doubts of everything, and for the most part I am in doubt.’
“我的罪孽就是怀疑。我对一切都持怀疑态度，而且在大多数情况下我都持怀疑态度。

‘Doubt is natural to the weakness of mankind,’ the priest repeated the same words. ‘What do you doubt about principally?’
“怀疑是人类的弱点，这是很自然的，”神父重复了同样的话。 “你主要怀疑什么？”

‘I doubt of everything. I sometimes even have doubts of the existence of God,’ Levin could not help saying, and he was horrified at the impropriety of what he was saying. But Levin’s words did not, it seemed, make much impression on the priest.
‘我对一切都怀疑。有时我什至怀疑上帝的存在。”莱文忍不住说道，同时他也为自己的不当言论感到震惊。但莱文的话似乎并没有给神父留下太多印象。

‘What sort of doubt can there be of the existence of God?’ he said hurriedly, with a just perceptible smile.
“对上帝的存在还有什么疑问呢？”他急忙说道，脸上带着一丝明显的微笑。

Levin did not speak.
莱文没有说话。

‘What doubt can you have of the Creator when you behold His creation?’ the priest went on in the rapid customary jargon. ‘Who has decked the heavenly firmament with its lights? Who has clothed the earth in its beauty? How explain it without the Creator?’ he said, looking inquiringly at Levin.
“当你看到造物主的创造物时，你对他还有什么疑问呢？”神父用快速的惯用行话继续说道。 ‘谁用光芒装饰了天穹？谁给大地披上了美丽的外衣？没有造物主怎么解释呢？”他询问地看着莱文。

Levin felt that it would be improper to enter upon a metaphysical discussion with the priest, and so he said in reply merely what was a direct answer to the question.
莱文觉得与神父进行形而上学的讨论是不合适的，所以他只回答了问题的直接答案。

‘I don’t know,’ he said.
“我不知道，”他说。

‘You don’t know! Then how can you doubt that God created all?’ the priest said, with good-humored perplexity.
‘你不知道！那么你怎么能怀疑上帝创造了一切呢？”神父幽默地困惑地说。

‘I don’t understand it at all,’ said Levin, blushing, and feeling that his words were stupid, and that they could not be anything but stupid in such a position.
“我根本不明白，”莱文红着脸说道，他觉得自己的话很愚蠢，而且在这种情况下，它们只能是愚蠢的。

‘Pray to God and beseech Him. Even the holy fathers had doubts, and prayed to God to strengthen their faith. The devil has great power, and we must resist him. Pray to God, beseech Him. Pray to God,’ he repeated hurriedly.
‘向上帝祈祷并恳求他。就连圣教父们也心存疑虑，祈求上帝加强他们的信仰。魔鬼的力量很大，我们必须抵挡他。向上帝祈祷，恳求他。向上帝祈祷吧。”他急忙重复道。

The priest paused for some time, as though meditating.
神父停顿了一会儿，仿佛在冥想。

‘You’re about, I hear, to marry the daughter of my parishioner and son in the spirit, Prince Shtcherbatsky?’ he resumed, with a smile. ‘An excellent young lady.’
“我听说，你要娶我教区居民的女儿和精神上的儿子谢尔巴茨基王子？”他微笑着继续说道。 “一位优秀的年轻女士。”

‘Yes,’ answered Levin, blushing for the priest. ‘What does he want to ask me about this at confession for?’ he thought.
“是的，”列文回答道，他为神父脸红了。 “他在忏悔时问我这件事干什么？”他想。

And, as though answering his thought, the priest said to him:
神父仿佛在回答他的想法，对他说道：

‘You are about to enter into holy matrimony, and God may bless you with offspring. Well, what sort of bringing-up can you give your babes if you do not overcome the temptation of the devil, enticing you to infidelity?’ he said, with gentle reproachfulness. ‘If you love your child as a good father, you will not desire only wealth, luxury, honor for your infant; you will be anxious for his salvation, his spiritual enlightenment with the light of truth. Eh? What answer will you make him when the innocent babe asks you: ‘Papa! who made all that enchants me in this world—the earth, the waters, the sun, the flowers, the grass?’ Can you say to him: ‘I don’t know’? You cannot but know, since the Lord God in His infinite mercy has revealed it to us. Or your child will ask you: ‘What awaits me in the life beyond the tomb?’ What will you say to him when you know nothing? How will you answer him? Will you leave him to the allurements of the world and the devil? That’s not right,’ he said, and he stopped, putting his head on one side and looking at Levin with his kindly, gentle eyes.
‘你们即将步入神圣的婚姻，上帝会保佑你们生儿育女。好吧，如果你不能克服引诱你不忠的魔鬼的诱惑，你能以什么样的方式抚养你的孩子呢？”他带着温和的责备说道。 “如果你像一个好父亲一样爱你的孩子，你就不会只为你的孩子渴望财富、奢华、荣誉；你会渴望他的救赎，渴望他在真理之光下的精神启蒙。呃？当天真的婴儿问你：‘爸爸！谁创造了这个世界上令我着迷的一切——大地、水、太阳、花、草？’你能对他说：‘我不知道’吗？你不能不知道，因为主神以其无限的怜悯向我们启示了这一点。或者你的孩子会问你：“在坟墓之外的生活中等待着我的是什么？”当你一无所知时，你会对他说什么？你会怎样回答他？你会让他接受世界和魔鬼的诱惑吗？这是不对的，”他说，然后停了下来，把头偏向一侧，用他和蔼、温柔的眼睛看着莱文。

Levin made no answer this time, not because he did not want to enter upon a discussion with the priest, but because, so far, no one had ever asked him such questions, and when his babes did ask him those questions, it would be time enough to think about answering them.
莱文这次没有回答，并不是因为他不想和神父讨论，而是因为到目前为止，还没有人问过他这样的问题，而当他的宝贝们问他这些问题时，有足够的时间考虑回答他们。

‘You are entering upon a time of life,’ pursued the priest, ‘when you must choose your path and keep to it. Pray to God that He may in His mercy aid you and have mercy on you!’ he concluded. ‘Our Lord and God, Jesus Christ, in the abundance and riches of His lovingkindness, forgives this child...’ and, finishing the prayer of absolution, the priest blessed him and dismissed him.
“你正在进入人生的一个阶段，”神父继续说道，“你必须选择自己的道路并坚持下去。”向上帝祈祷，愿他怜悯你，帮助你！”他总结道。 “我们的主和上帝耶稣基督，以他丰盛和丰富的慈爱宽恕了这个孩子……”在完成赦免祈祷后，神父祝福了他，然后让他离开了。

On getting home that day, Levin had a delightful sense of relief at the awkward position being over and having been got through without his having to tell a lie. Apart from this, there remained a vague memory that what the kind, nice old fellow had said had not been at all so stupid as he had fancied at first, and that there was something in it that must be cleared up.
那天回到家后，莱文有一种令人愉快的解脱感，因为尴尬的处境已经结束，不需要说谎就可以解决。除此之外，还有一个模糊的记忆，那个善良的老家伙说的话根本没有他一开始想象的那么愚蠢，其中有一些东西必须澄清。

‘Of course, not now,’ thought Levin, ‘but some day later on.’ Levin felt more than ever now that there was something not clear and not clean in his soul, and that, in regard to religion, he was in the same position which he perceived so clearly and disliked in others, and for which he blamed his friend Sviazhsky.
“当然，不是现在，”莱文想，“而是以后的某一天。”莱文现在比以往任何时候都更觉得他的灵魂里有一些不清晰、不干净的东西，而且，就宗教而言，他处于他很清楚地看到了同样的立场，并且不喜欢其他人的立场，并为此指责他的朋友斯维亚日斯基。

Levin spent that evening with his betrothed at Dolly’s, and was in very high spirits. To explain to Stepan Arkadyevitch the state of excitement in which he found himself, he said that he was happy like a dog being trained to jump through a hoop, who, having at last caught the idea, and done what was required of him, whines and wags its tail, and jumps up to the table and the windows in its delight.
那天晚上，莱文和他的未婚夫一起在多莉家度过，心情非常高涨。为了向斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇解释他发现自己所处的兴奋状态，他说他很高兴，就像一只被训练去跳圈的狗，它终于明白了这个想法，并做了要求他做的事情，哀嚎着它摇着尾巴，高兴地跳到桌子和窗户上。

Chapter 2
第2章

On the day of the wedding, according to the Russian custom (the princess and Darya Alexandrovna insisted on strictly keeping all the customs), Levin did not see his betrothed, and dined at his hotel with three bachelor friends, casually brought together at his rooms. These were Sergey Ivanovitch, Katavasov, a university friend, now professor of natural science, whom Levin had met in the street and insisted on taking home with him, and Tchirikov, his best man, a Moscow conciliation-board judge, Levin’s companion in his bear-hunts. The dinner was a very merry one: Sergey Ivanovitch was in his happiest mood, and was much amused by Katavasov’s originality. Katavasov, feeling his originality was appreciated and understood, made the most of it. Tchirikov always gave a lively and good-humored support to conversation of any sort.
婚礼当天，按照俄罗斯习俗（公主和达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜坚持严格遵守所有习俗），列文没有见到他的未婚夫，而是在他的酒店与三位单身朋友一起在他的房间里随意聚餐。 。他们是谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇、卡塔瓦索夫（他是大学朋友，现在是自然科学教授），列文在街上遇见了他，并坚持带他一起回家；还有奇里科夫，他的伴郎，莫斯科调解委员会法官，列文在他的法庭上的同伴。猎熊。晚餐非常愉快：谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇心情最愉快，对卡塔瓦索夫的独创性感到很有趣。卡塔瓦索夫感到自己的原创性受到赞赏和理解，因此充分利用了这一点。奇里科夫总是对任何类型的谈话都给予活泼和幽默的支持。

‘See, now,’ said Katavasov, drawling his words from a habit acquired in the lecture-room, ‘what a capable fellow was our friend Konstantin Dmitrievitch. I’m not speaking of present company, for he’s absent. At the time he left the university he was fond of science, took an interest in humanity; now one-half of his abilities is devoted to deceiving himself, and the other to justifying the deceit.’
“现在看，”卡塔瓦索夫说，他的声音拖长了，这是在教室里养成的习惯，“我们的朋友康斯坦丁·德米特里耶维奇是一个多么能干的人啊。我说的不是现在的陪伴，因为他不在。离开大学时，他热爱科学，对人文感兴趣；现在他一半的能力用于欺骗自己，另一半则用于为欺骗辩护。

‘A more determined enemy of matrimony than you I never saw,’ said Sergey Ivanovitch.
“我从未见过比你更坚定的婚姻敌人，”谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇说。

‘Oh, no, I’m not an enemy of matrimony. I’m in favor of division of labor. People who can do nothing else ought to rear people while the rest work for their happiness and enlightenment. That’s how I look at it. To muddle up two trades is the error of the amateur; I’m not one of their number.’
“哦，不，我不是婚姻的敌人。我赞成分工。那些无能为力的人应该养育他人，而其他人则为他们的幸福和开悟而工作。我就是这么看的。混淆两种交易是业余爱好者的错误；我不是他们中的一员。

‘How happy I shall be when I hear that you’re in love!’ said Levin. ‘Please invite me to the wedding.’
“当我听说你恋爱了，我会多么高兴啊！”莱文说。 “请邀请我参加婚礼。”

‘I’m in love now.’
'我恋爱了，现在。'

‘Yes, with a cuttlefish! You know,’ Levin turned to his brother, ‘Mihail Semyonovitch is writing a work on the digestive organs of the...’
“是的，还有墨鱼！”你知道，”列文转向他的兄弟，“米哈伊尔·谢苗诺维奇正在写一本关于……消化器官的著作。”

‘Now, make a muddle of it! It doesn’t matter what about. And the fact is, I certainly do love cuttlefish.’
‘现在，把事情搞得一团糟！没关系。事实上，我确实很喜欢墨鱼。

‘But that’s no hindrance to your loving your wife.’
“但这并不妨碍你爱你的妻子。”

‘The cuttlefish is no hindrance. The wife is the hindrance.’
‘墨鱼不是障碍。妻子是障碍。

‘Why so?’
'为什么这样？'

‘Oh, you’ll see! You care about farming, hunting,—well, you’d better look out!’
‘哦，你会看到的！你关心农耕、狩猎——好吧，你最好小心点！

‘Arhip was here today; he said there were a lot of elks in Prudno, and two bears,’ said Tchirikov.
‘阿尔希普今天在这里； “他说普鲁德诺有很多麋鹿，还有两只熊，”奇里科夫说。

‘Well, you must go and get them without me.’
“好吧，你必须在没有我的情况下去拿它们。”

‘Ah, that’s the truth,’ said Sergey Ivanovitch. ‘And you may say good-bye to bear-hunting for the future—your wife won’t allow it!’
“啊，这是事实，”谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇说。 “你可以为未来告别猎熊——你的妻子不会允许的！”

Levin smiled. The picture of his wife not letting him go was so pleasant that he was ready to renounce the delights of looking upon bears forever.
莱文笑了。妻子不让他走的画面是如此令人愉快，以至于他准备永远放弃看熊的乐趣。

‘Still, it’s a pity they should get those two bears without you. Do you remember last time at Hapilovo? That was a delightful hunt!’ said Tchirikov.
“不过，遗憾的是他们在没有你的情况下得到了那两只熊。你还记得上次在哈皮洛沃吗？这是一次令人愉快的狩猎！”奇里科夫说道。

Levin had not the heart to disillusion him of the notion that there could be something delightful apart from her, and so said nothing.
列文不忍心让他相信，除了她之外，还能有什么令人愉快的事情，所以什么也没说。

‘There’s some sense in this custom of saying good-bye to bachelor life,’ said Sergey Ivanovitch. ‘However happy you may be, you must regret your freedom.’
“这种告别单身生活的习俗是有一定道理的，”谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇说。 “无论你多么幸福，你一定会为你的自由感到遗憾。”

‘And confess there is a feeling that you want to jump out of the window, like Gogol’s bridegroom?’
“并承认你有一种想要跳出窗外的感觉，就像果戈理的新郎一样？”

‘Of course there is, but it isn’t confessed,’ said Katavasov, and he broke into loud laughter.
“当然有，但没有被承认。”卡塔瓦索夫说着，突然大笑起来。

‘Oh, well, the window’s open. Let’s start off this instant to Tver! There’s a big she-bear; one can go right up to the lair. Seriously, let’s go by the five o’clock! And here let them do what they like,’ said Tchirikov, smiling.
“哦，好吧，窗户是开着的。让我们立即出发前往特维尔吧！有一只大母熊；人们可以直接到达巢穴。说真的，我们五点钟就出发吧！奇里科夫微笑着说，让他们做他们喜欢做的事吧。

‘Well, now, on my honor,’ said Levin, smiling, ‘I can’t find in my heart that feeling of regret for my freedom.’
“好吧，现在，以我的名誉担保，”莱文微笑着说道，“我心里找不到对我的自由感到遗憾的感觉。”

‘Yes, there’s such a chaos in your heart just now that you can’t find anything there,’ said Katavasov. ‘Wait a bit, when you set it to rights a little, you’ll find it!’
“是的，刚才你心里一片混乱，什么都找不到。”卡塔瓦索夫说道。 “等一下，稍微调整一下就可以找到了！”

‘No; if so, I should have felt a little, apart from my feeling’ (he could not say love before them) ‘and happiness, a certain regret at losing my freedom.... On the contrary, I am glad at the very loss of my freedom.’
'不;如果是这样的话，除了我的感觉（他不能在他们面前说爱）和幸福之外，我应该感觉到一点，对失去自由的某种遗憾……相反，我为失去自由而感到高兴。我的自由。

‘Awful! It’s a hopeless case!’ said Katavasov. ‘Well, let’s drink to his recovery, or wish that a hundredth part of his dreams may be realized—and that would be happiness such as never has been seen on earth!’
'可怕！这是一个绝望的案例！”卡塔瓦索夫说。 “好吧，让我们为他的康复干杯，或者祝愿他百分之一的梦想能够实现——那将是地球上从未见过的幸福！”

Soon after dinner the guests went away to be in time to be dressed for the wedding.
晚餐后不久，客人们就离开了，以便及时穿好衣服参加婚礼。

When he was left alone, and recalled the conversation of these bachelor friends, Levin asked himself: had he in his heart that regret for his freedom of which they had spoken? He smiled at the question. ‘Freedom! What is freedom for? Happiness is only in loving and wishing her wishes, thinking her thoughts, that is to say, not freedom at all—that’s happiness!’
当只剩下他一个人的时候，莱文回想起这些单身朋友的谈话，问自己：他心里是否对他们所说的自由感到遗憾？他对这个问题微笑着。 '自由！自由是为了什么？幸福只是爱她，许她所愿，想她所想，也就是说，根本不是自由——这就是幸福！

‘But do I know her ideas, her wishes, her feelings?’ some voice suddenly whispered to him. The smile died away from his face, and he grew thoughtful. And suddenly a strange feeling came upon him. There came over him a dread and doubt—doubt of everything.
“但是我知道她的想法、她的愿望、她的感受吗？”突然有一个声音对他低声说道。他脸上的笑容消失了，他陷入沉思。突然，一种奇怪的感觉涌上心头。一种恐惧和怀疑笼罩着他——对一切的怀疑。

‘What if she does not love me? What if she’s marrying me simply to be married? What if she doesn’t see herself what she’s doing?’ he asked himself. ‘She may come to her senses, and only when she is being married realize that she does not and cannot love me.’ And strange, most evil thoughts of her began to come to him. He was jealous of Vronsky, as he had been a year ago, as though the evening he had seen her with Vronsky had been yesterday. He suspected she had not told him everything.
‘如果她不爱我怎么办？如果她嫁给我只是为了结婚怎么办？如果她看不到自己在做什么怎么办？”他问自己。 “她可能会醒悟过来，只有当她结婚时才会意识到她不爱我，也不可能爱我。”他开始想到她的奇怪的、最邪恶的想法。他嫉妒渥伦斯基，就像一年前一样，仿佛他看到她和渥伦斯基在一起的那个晚上就发生在昨天。他怀疑她没有告诉他一切。

He jumped up quickly. ‘No, this can’t go on!’ he said to himself in despair. ‘I’ll go to her; I’ll ask her; I’ll say for the last time: we are free, and hadn’t we better stay so? Anything’s better than endless misery, disgrace, unfaithfulness!’ With despair in his heart and bitter anger against all men, against himself, against her, he went out of the hotel and drove to her house.
他迅速跳了起来。 “不，不能再这样下去了！”他绝望地对自己说。 ‘我去她那儿；我会问她；我最后一次说：我们是自由的，我们最好保持这样吗？一切都比无尽的痛苦、耻辱和不忠要好！”他心中充满绝望，对所有人、对自己、对她都怀着强烈的愤怒，走出旅馆，开车去她家。

He found her in one of the back rooms. She was sitting on a chest and making some arrangements with her maid, sorting over heaps of dresses of different colors, spread on the backs of chairs and on the floor.
他在一间后面的房间里找到了她。她坐在箱子上，和女仆一起做着一些事情，整理着堆在椅背和地板上的不同颜色的衣服。

‘Ah!’ she cried, seeing him, and beaming with delight. ‘Kostya! Konstantin Dmitrievitch!’ (These latter days she used these names almost alternately.) ‘I didn’t expect you! I’m going through my wardrobe to see what’s for whom...’
“啊！”她看到他，脸上露出喜悦的笑容，叫道。 ‘克斯特亚！康斯坦丁·德米特里耶维奇！”（最近她几乎交替使用这些名字。）“我没想到你！我正在检查我的衣柜，看看什么适合谁……”

‘Oh! that’s very nice!’ he said gloomily, looking at the maid.
'哦！太好了！”他看着女仆，阴郁地说。

‘You can go, Dunyasha, I’ll call you presently,’ said Kitty. ‘Kostya, what’s the matter?’ she asked, definitely adopting this familiar name as soon as the maid had gone out. She noticed his strange face, agitated and gloomy, and a panic came over her.
“你可以走了，杜尼亚莎，我马上给你打电话，”基蒂说。 “克斯特亚，怎么了？”女仆一出去，她就肯定地用了这个熟悉的名字。她注意到他那张陌生的脸，焦躁而阴郁，她心中涌上一丝惊慌。

‘Kitty! I’m in torture. I can’t suffer alone,’ he said with despair in his voice, standing before her and looking imploringly into her eyes. He saw already from her loving, truthful face, that nothing could come of what he had meant to say, but yet he wanted her to reassure him herself. ‘I’ve come to say that there’s still time. This can all be stopped and set right.’
'猫咪！我正在受折磨。我不能独自承受痛苦。”他站在她面前，恳求地看着她的眼睛，声音里充满了绝望。他已经从她充满爱意、诚实的脸上看出，他想说的话不可能有任何结果，但他仍然希望她亲自向他保证。 “我来是想说还有时间。这一切都可以停止并纠正。

‘What? I don’t understand. What is the matter?’
'什么？我不明白。什么事？'

‘What I have said a thousand times over, and can’t help thinking ...that I’m not worthy of you. You couldn’t consent to marry me. Think a little. You’ve made a mistake. Think it over thoroughly. You can’t love me.... If...better say so,’ he said, not looking at her. ‘I shall be wretched. Let people say what they like; anything’s better than misery.... Far better now while there’s still time....’
‘我已经说过一千遍了，并且忍不住想……我配不上你。你不可能同意嫁给我。想一下。你犯了一个错误。仔细考虑一下。你不能爱我……如果……最好这么说，”他说，没有看她。 ‘我会很可怜。让人们说他们喜欢说的话；任何事情都比痛苦好……现在好多了，趁还有时间……”

‘I don’t understand,’ she answered, panic-stricken; ‘you mean you want to give it up...don’t want it?’
“我不明白，”她惊慌失措地回答道。 “你的意思是你想放弃它……不想要它？”

‘Yes, if you don’t love me.’
“是的，如果你不爱我的话。”

‘You’re out of your mind!’ she cried, turning crimson with vexation. But his face was so piteous, that she restrained her vexation, and flinging some clothes off an arm-chair, she sat down beside him. ‘What are you thinking? tell me all.’
“你疯了！”她气得满脸通红，喊道。但他的脸色实在是太可怜了，她强忍着心中的恼怒，从扶手椅上扔下一些衣服，在他身边坐下。 '你在想什么？告诉我一切。

‘I am thinking you can’t love me. What can you love me for?’
‘我想你不可能爱我。你能因为什么而爱我？

‘My God! what can I do?...’ she said, and burst into tears.
'我的上帝！我能做什么？……”她说着，泪流满面。

‘Oh! what have I done?’ he cried, and kneeling before her, he fell to kissing her hands.
'哦！我做了什么？”他喊道，跪在她面前，亲吻了她的手。

When the princess came into the room five minutes later, she found them completely reconciled. Kitty had not simply assured him that she loved him, but had gone so far—in answer to his question, what she loved him for—as to explain what for. She told him that she loved him because she understood him completely, because she knew what he would like, and because everything he liked was good. And this seemed to him perfectly clear. When the princess came to them, they were sitting side by side on the chest, sorting the dresses and disputing over Kitty’s wanting to give Dunyasha the brown dress she had been wearing when Levin proposed to her, while he insisted that that dress must never be given away, but Dunyasha must have the blue one.
五分钟后，当公主走进房间时，她发现他们完全和解了。基蒂不仅向他保证她爱他，而且在回答他的问题——她爱他的原因时——甚至解释了为什么。她告诉他，她爱他，因为她完全理解他，因为她知道他想要什么，因为他喜欢的一切都是好的。这对他来说似乎是非常清楚的。当公主来到他们身边时，他们并排坐在柜子上，整理衣服，争论凯蒂是否想把莱文向她求婚时穿的那件棕色衣服送给杜尼亚莎，而他坚持认为那件衣服永远不能被送给杜尼亚莎。送人了，但杜尼亚莎一定有蓝色的。

‘How is it you don’t see? She’s a brunette, and it won’t suit her.... I’ve worked it all out.’
‘你怎么没看见？她是个黑发女人，这不适合她……我已经全部解决了。

Hearing why he had come, the princess was half humorously, half seriously angry with him, and sent him home to dress and not to hinder Kitty’s hair-dressing, as Charles the hair-dresser was just coming.
听到他来的原因，公主半幽默半严肃地生他的气，让他回家穿衣服，不要妨碍基蒂的理发，因为理发师查尔斯刚刚来。

‘As it is, she’s been eating nothing lately and is losing her looks, and then you must come and upset her with your nonsense,’ she said to him. ‘Get along with you, my dear!’
“事实上，她最近没怎么吃东西，脸色也越来越差，那么你一定要来用你的胡言乱语来惹恼她，”她对他说。 “和你相处吧，亲爱的！”

Levin, guilty and shamefaced, but pacified, went back to his hotel. His brother, Darya Alexandrovna, and Stepan Arkadyevitch, all in full dress, were waiting for him to bless him with the holy picture. There was no time to lose. Darya Alexandrovna had to drive home again to fetch her curled and pomaded son, who was to carry the holy pictures after the bride. Then a carriage had to be sent for the best man, and another that would take Sergey Ivanovitch away would have to be sent back.... Altogether there were a great many most complicated matters to be considered and arranged. One thing was unmistakable, that there must be no delay, as it was already half-past six.
莱文感到内疚和羞愧，但平静下来后回到了旅馆。他的弟弟达里娅·亚历山德罗芙娜和斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇都盛装打扮，正等着他用圣像祝福他。没有时间可以浪费了。达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜不得不再次开车回家去接她卷发、涂着润发油的儿子，他将在新娘后面携带圣像。然后，必须派一辆马车去接伴郎，又得派另一辆马车送谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇离开……总共有很多最复杂的事情需要考虑和安排。有一点是不容置疑的，那就是不能耽搁，因为已经六点半了。

Nothing special happened at the ceremony of benediction with the holy picture. Stepan Arkadyevitch stood in a comically solemn pose beside his wife, took the holy picture, and telling Levin to bow down to the ground, he blessed him with his kindly, ironical smile, and kissed him three times; Darya Alexandrovna did the same, and immediately was in a hurry to get off, and again plunged into the intricate question of the destinations of the various carriages.
在圣像祝福仪式上并没有发生什么特别的事情。斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇以一种滑稽而庄严的姿势站在他妻子旁边，拍下了这张神圣的照片，并让列文跪倒在地，他用友善而讽刺的微笑祝福他，并吻了他三下；达里娅·亚历山德罗芙娜也这么做了，立即急忙下车，又陷入了各种车厢目的地的错综复杂的问题中。

‘Come, I’ll tell you how we’ll manage: you drive in our carriage to fetch him, and Sergey Ivanovitch, if he’ll be so good, will drive there and then send his carriage.’
“来吧，我来告诉你我们该怎么办：你开着我们的马车去接他，谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇如果他愿意的话，他会开车去那里，然后送他的马车。”

‘Of course; I shall be delighted.’
'当然;我会很高兴的。

‘We’ll come on directly with him. Are your things sent off?’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch.
“我们会直接和他一起上场。 “你的东西送走了吗？”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇问道。

‘Yes,’ answered Levin, and he told Kouzma to put out his clothes for him to dress.
“是的，”莱文回答道，然后他让库兹马把衣服拿出来让他穿。

Chapter 3
第3章

A crowd of people, principally women, was thronging round the church lighted up for the wedding. Those who had not succeeded in getting into the main entrance were crowding about the windows, pushing, wrangling, and peeping through the gratings.
一群人，主要是妇女，聚集在教堂周围，教堂灯火通明，准备举行婚礼。那些没能进入正门的人都挤在窗户周围，推搡着，扭打着，透过栅栏往里看。

More than twenty carriages had already been drawn up in ranks along the street by the police. A police officer, regardless of the frost, stood at the entrance, gorgeous in his uniform. More carriages were continually driving up, and ladies wearing flowers and carrying their trains, and men taking off their helmets or black hats kept walking into the church. Inside the church both lusters were already lighted, and all the candles before the holy pictures. The gilt on the red ground of the holy picture-stand, and the gilt relief on the pictures, and the silver of the lusters and candlesticks, and the stones of the floor, and the rugs, and the banners above in the choir, and the steps of the altar, and the old blackened books, and the cassocks and surplices—all were flooded with light. On the right side of the warm church, in the crowd of frock coats and white ties, uniforms and broadcloth, velvet, satin, hair and flowers, bare shoulders and arms and long gloves, there was discreet but lively conversation that echoed strangely in the high cupola. Every time there was heard the creak of the opened door the conversation in the crowd died away, and everybody looked round expecting to see the bride and bridegroom come in. But the door had opened more than ten times, and each time it was either a belated guest or guests, who joined the circle of the invited on the right, or a spectator, who had eluded or softened the police officer, and went to join the crowd of outsiders on the left. Both the guests and the outside public had by now passed through all the phases of anticipation.
二十多辆马车已经被警察沿街排成一排。一名警察不顾严寒，站在门口，制服华丽。更多的马车不断驶来，戴着鲜花拖着裾的女士们，摘下头盔或黑帽子的男士们不断地走进教堂。教堂内，两盏灯都已点燃，圣像前所有的蜡烛都已点燃。圣画架红底上的镀金，画上的镀金浮雕，光泽和烛台的银质，地板上的石头，地毯，以及唱诗班上方的横幅，祭坛的台阶、发黑的旧书、袈裟和法衣——全都被光芒淹没了。在温暖的教堂右侧，在穿着礼服和白色领带、制服和绒布、天鹅绒、缎子、头发和鲜花、裸露的肩膀和手臂和长手套的人群中，有一种谨慎而活泼的谈话，奇怪地回荡在教堂里。高圆顶。每次听到开门的声音，人群中的议论声就消失了，大家都扭头望去，期待看到新郎新娘进来。可门已经开了十多次了，每次不是迟来的客人，加入了右边受邀者的圈子，或者旁观者，躲避或软化了警察，加入了左边的外人人群。无论是嘉宾还是外界的公众，此时都已经经历了所有的期待阶段。

At first they imagined that the bride and bridegroom would arrive immediately, and attached no importance at all to their being late. Then they began to look more and more often towards the door, and to talk of whether anything could have happened. Then the long delay began to be positively discomforting, and relations and guests tried to look as if they were not thinking of the bridegroom but were engrossed in conversation.
起初，他们以为新郎新娘会立即到来，对自己迟到一点也不在意。然后他们开始越来越频繁地看向门口，谈论是否发生了什么事。然后，长时间的拖延开始让人感到非常不舒服，亲戚和客人都试图表现得好像他们没有想到新郎，而是全神贯注地交谈。

The head deacon, as though to remind them of the value of his time, coughed impatiently, making the window-panes quiver in their frames. In the choir the bored choristers could be heard trying their voices and blowing their noses. The priest was continually sending first the beadle and then the deacon to find out whether the bridegroom had not come, more and more often he went himself, in a lilac vestment and an embroidered sash, to the side door, expecting to see the bridegroom. At last one of the ladies, glancing at her watch, said, ‘It really is strange, though!’ and all the guests became uneasy and began loudly expressing their wonder and dissatisfaction. One of the bridegroom’s best men went to find out what had happened. Kitty meanwhile had long ago been quite ready, and in her white dress and long veil and wreath of orange blossoms she was standing in the drawing-room of the Shtcherbatskys’ house with her sister, Madame Lvova, who was her bridal-mother. She was looking out of the window, and had been for over half an hour anxiously expecting to hear from the best man that her bridegroom was at the church.
首席执事似乎在提醒他们时间的宝贵，不耐烦地咳嗽了一声，窗框里的窗玻璃都在颤抖。在唱诗班里，可以听到无聊的唱诗班成员尝试着自己的声音，擤着鼻子。牧师不断地先派教区牧师，然后派执事去看看新郎是否还没有来，越来越多的时候，他自己穿着淡紫色的法衣，系着绣花腰带，走到侧门，期待见到新郎。最后，一位女士看了一眼手表，说道：“不过，这确实很奇怪！”所有的客人都变得不安起来，开始大声表达他们的惊奇和不满。新郎的一位伴郎前去查看发生了什么事。与此同时，基蒂早已做好了准备，她穿着白色的裙子，戴着长长的面纱，戴着橙花花环，和她的妹妹、她的新娘母亲利沃娃夫人一起站在谢尔巴茨基家的客厅里。她望着窗外，半个多小时以来一直焦急地等待伴郎说她的新郎在教堂。

Levin meanwhile, in his trousers, but without his coat and waistcoat, was walking to and fro in his room at the hotel, continually putting his head out of the door and looking up and down the corridor. But in the corridor there was no sign of the person he was looking for and he came back in despair, and frantically waving his hands addressed Stepan Arkadyevitch, who was smoking serenely.
与此同时，莱文穿着裤子，但没有穿外套和背心，在旅馆的房间里来回走动，不断地将头伸出门外，在走廊上上下打量。但走廊里并没有他要找的人的踪影，他绝望地回来了，疯狂地挥舞着双手，对正在安详地抽烟的斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇说道。

‘Was ever a man in such a fearful fool’s position?’ he said.
“曾经有人处于如此可怕的愚蠢境地吗？”他说。

‘Yes, it is stupid,’ Stepan Arkadyevitch assented, smiling soothingly. ‘But don’t worry, it’ll be brought directly.’
“是的，这很愚蠢，”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇同意道，脸上带着安慰的微笑。 “不过你放心，直接就送过来了。”

‘No, what is to be done!’ said Levin, with smothered fury. ‘And these fools of open waistcoats! Out of the question!’ he said, looking at the crumpled front of his shirt. ‘And what if the things have been taken on to the railway station!’ he roared in desperation.
“不，该怎么办！”莱文怒气冲冲地说。 ‘还有这些敞开背心的傻瓜！ “不可能！”他看着自己皱巴巴的衬衫正面说道。 “如果这些东西被运到火车站怎么办！”他绝望地咆哮道。

‘Then you must put on mine.’
“那你必须穿上我的。”

‘I ought to have done so long ago, if at all.’
“如果有的话，我早就该这么做了。”

‘It’s not nice to look ridiculous.... Wait a bit! it will come round.’
‘看起来可笑可不太好……等一下！它会回来的。

The point was that when Levin asked for his evening suit, Kouzma, his old servant, had brought him the coat, waistcoat, and everything that was wanted.
关键是，当莱文要他的晚礼服时，他的老仆人库兹马给他带来了外套、马甲和所有想要的东西。

‘But the shirt!’ cried Levin.
“但是衬衫！”莱文喊道。

‘You’ve got a shirt on,’ Kouzma answered, with a placid smile.
“你穿了一件衬衫，”库兹马平静地微笑着回答。

Kouzma had not thought of leaving out a clean shirt, and on receiving instructions to pack up everything and send it round to the Shtcherbatskys’ house, from which the young people were to set out the same evening, he had done so, packing everything but the dress suit. The shirt worn since the morning was crumpled and out of the question with the fashionable open waistcoat. It was a long way to send to the Shtcherbatskys’. They sent out to buy a shirt. The servant came back; everything was shut up—it was Sunday. They sent to Stepan Arkadyevitch’s and brought a shirt—it was impossibly wide and short. They sent finally to the Shtcherbatskys’ to unpack the things. The bridegroom was expected at the church while he was pacing up and down his room like a wild beast in a cage, peeping out into the corridor, and with horror and despair recalling what absurd things he had said to Kitty and what she might be thinking now.
库兹马没想到留下一件干净的衬衫，在接到指示收拾好所有东西并将其送到谢尔巴茨基家（年轻人当天晚上要从那里出发）时，他就这么做了，把所有东西都打包了，除了礼服套装。从早上起就穿的衬衫已经皱巴巴的了，根本配不上时髦的露背背心。送到谢尔巴茨基家还有很长的路要走。他们派人去买一件衬衫。仆人回来了。一切都被封锁了——今天是星期天。他们送到斯捷潘·阿尔卡季维奇那里，带来了一件衬衫——它又宽又短，令人难以置信。他们最后派人去谢尔巴茨基家拆箱。新郎正在教堂里等待着，他像笼中的野兽一样在房间里来回踱步，向走廊里窥视，惊恐而绝望地回忆着他对基蒂说过的荒谬的话以及她可能在想什么。现在。

At last the guilty Kouzma flew panting into the room with the shirt.
最后，愧疚的库兹马带着衬衫气喘吁吁地飞进了房间。

‘Only just in time. They were just lifting it into the van,’ said Kouzma.
‘只是恰逢其时。他们只是把它搬进货车，”库兹马说。

Three minutes later Levin ran full speed into the corridor, not looking at his watch for fear of aggravating his sufferings.
三分钟后，莱文全速跑进走廊，没有看表，生怕加重自己的痛苦。

‘You won’t help matters like this,’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch with a smile, hurrying with more deliberation after him. ‘It will come round, it will come round...I tell you.’
“这样的事情你不会帮忙的。”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇微笑着说道，一边更加慎重地跟在他身后快步走去。 “它会恢复的，它会恢复的……我告诉你。”

Chapter 4
第4章

‘They’ve come!’ ‘Here he is!’ ‘Which one?’ ‘Rather young, eh?’ ‘Why, my dear soul, she looks more dead than alive!’ were the comments in the crowd, when Levin, meeting his bride in the entrance, walked with her into the church.
“他们来了！”“他在这里！”“哪一个？”“相当年轻，是吗？”“为什么，我亲爱的灵魂，她看起来更像死人而不是活人！”当莱文，在入口处遇见了他的新娘，并与她一起走进教堂。

Stepan Arkadyevitch told his wife the cause of the delay, and the guests were whispering it with smiles to one another. Levin saw nothing and no one; he did not take his eyes off his bride.
斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇向他的妻子讲述了延误的原因，客人们面带微笑地窃窃私语。莱文什么也没看见，也没有看到任何人。他的目光始终没有离开他的新娘。

Everyone said she had lost her looks dreadfully of late, and was not nearly so pretty on her wedding day as usual; but Levin did not think so. He looked at her hair done up high, with the long white veil and white flowers and the high, stand-up, scalloped collar, that in such a maidenly fashion hid her long neck at the sides and only showed it in front, her strikingly slender figure, and it seemed to him that she looked better than ever—not because these flowers, this veil, this gown from Paris added anything to her beauty; but because, in spite of the elaborate sumptuousness of her attire, the expression of her sweet face, of her eyes, of her lips was still her own characteristic expression of guileless truthfulness.
大家都说她最近容貌大不如前，结婚那天也不像平常那​​么漂亮了。但莱文却不这么认为。他看着她的头发高高扎起，长长的白纱和白花，高高的立式扇形领子，少女般的时尚，将长长的脖子隐藏在两侧，只在前面露出来，显得格外引人注目。苗条的身材，在他看来，她看起来比以前更好了——并不是因为这些花、这面纱、这件来自巴黎的礼服给她增添了任何美丽；而是因为她的美丽。因为，尽管她的衣着极其华丽，但她甜美的脸庞、她的眼睛、她的嘴唇的表情仍然是她特有的朴实真诚的表情。

‘I was beginning to think you meant to run away,’ she said, and smiled to him.
“我开始以为你打算逃跑，”她说道，并对他微笑。

‘It’s so stupid, what happened to me, I’m ashamed to speak of it!’ he said, reddening, and he was obliged to turn to Sergey Ivanovitch, who came up to him.
“发生在我身上的事太愚蠢了，我羞于谈论这件事！”他脸红了，不得不转向向他走来的谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇。

‘This is a pretty story of yours about the shirt!’ said Sergey Ivanovitch, shaking his head and smiling.
“这是你关于这件衬衫的一个美丽的故事！”谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇笑着摇摇头说道。

‘Yes, yes!’ answered Levin, without an idea of what they were talking about.
“是的，是的！”莱文回答道，完全不知道他们在说什么。

‘Now, Kostya, you have to decide,’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch with an air of mock dismay, ‘a weighty question. You are at this moment just in the humor to appreciate all its gravity. They ask me, are they to light the candles that have been lighted before or candles that have never been lighted? It’s a matter of ten roubles,’ he added, relaxing his lips into a smile. ‘I have decided, but I was afraid you might not agree.’
“现在，克斯特亚，你必须做出决定，”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇假装沮丧地说，“这是一个重大问题。此时此刻，你正处于幽默之中，欣赏它的严肃性。他们问我，是点燃以前点燃过的蜡烛还是点燃从未点燃过的蜡烛？大约十卢布，”他补充道，放松嘴唇，露出微笑。 “我已经决定了，但我怕你不同意。”

Levin saw it was a joke, but he could not smile.
莱文看出这是个玩笑，但他笑不出来。

‘Well, how’s it to be then?—unlighted or lighted candles? that’s the question.’
“那么，那怎么样呢？——蜡烛是未点燃的还是点燃的？这就是问题所在。'

‘Yes, yes, unlighted.’
“是的，是的，没有点燃。”

‘Oh, I’m very glad. The question’s decided!’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch, smiling. ‘How silly men are, though, in this position,’ he said to Tchirikov, when Levin, after looking absently at him, had moved back to his bride.
‘哦，我很高兴。问题已经解决了！”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇微笑着说道。 “不过，在这种情况下，男人是多么愚蠢啊，”当列文心不在焉地看了他一眼，又回到他的新娘身边时，他对奇里科夫说道。

‘Kitty, mind you’re the first to step on the carpet,’ said Countess Nordston, coming up. ‘You’re a nice person!’ she said to Levin.
“基蒂，请注意，你是第一个踏上地毯的人，”诺德斯顿伯爵夫人走过来说道。 “你是一个好人！”她对莱文说。

‘Aren’t you frightened, eh?’ said Marya Dmitrievna, an old aunt.
“你不害怕吗？”老阿姨玛丽亚·德米特里耶芙娜说道。

‘Are you cold? You’re pale. Stop a minute, stoop down,’ said Kitty’s sister, Madame Lvova, and with her plump, handsome arms she smilingly set straight the flowers on her head.
'你冷吗？你脸色苍白。停下来，弯下腰。”基蒂的妹妹利沃娃夫人说道，她用她那丰满、英俊的手臂微笑着把头上的花扶正。

Dolly came up, tried to say something, but could not speak, cried, and then laughed unnaturally.
多莉走过来，想说什么，但说不出来，哭了，然后不自然地笑了。

Kitty looked at all of them with the same absent eyes as Levin.
基蒂用和莱文一样心不在焉的眼神看着他们所有人。

Meanwhile the officiating clergy had got into their vestments, and the priest and deacon came out to the lectern, which stood in the forepart of the church. The priest turned to Levin saying something. Levin did not hear what the priest said.
与此同时，主持仪式的神职人员已经穿上了他们的法衣，神父和执事来到了教堂前面的讲台前。神父转向莱文说了些什么。莱文没有听到神父说什么。

‘Take the bride’s hand and lead her up,’ the best man said to Levin.
“牵着新娘的手，领她上去。”伴郎对莱文说道。

It was a long while before Levin could make out what was expected of him. For a long time they tried to set him right and made him begin again—because he kept taking Kitty by the wrong arm or with the wrong arm—till he understood at last that what he had to do was, without changing his position, to take her right hand in his right hand. When at last he had taken the bride’s hand in the correct way, the priest walked a few paces in front of them and stopped at the lectern. The crowd of friends and relations moved after them, with a buzz of talk and a rustle of skirts. Someone stooped down and pulled out the bride’s train. The church became so still that the drops of wax could be heard falling from the candles.
过了很长一段时间，莱文才明白对他的期望。很长一段时间，他们试图纠正他，让他重新开始——因为他总是用错误的手臂或错误的手臂抓住基蒂——直到他最后明白，他必须做的是，在不改变立场的情况下，将她的右手握在他的右手里。当神父最终以正确的方式握住新娘的手时，他在他们前面走了几步，在讲台前停了下来。一群朋友和亲戚跟在他们后面，议论纷纷，裙子沙沙作响。有人弯下腰，把新娘的裙裾拉了出来。教堂里变得如此安静，甚至可以听到蜡烛上滴下的蜡的声音。

The little old priest in his ecclesiastical cap, with his long silvery-gray locks of hair parted behind his ears, was fumbling with something at the lectern, putting out his little old hands from under the heavy silver vestment with the gold cross on the back of it.
头戴教士帽、银灰色长发披在耳后的小个子老神父，正在讲台前摸索着什么东西，从厚重的背着金十字架的银色法衣下伸出了他那双苍老的小手。它的。

Stepan Arkadyevitch approached him cautiously, whispered something, and making a sign to Levin, walked back again.
斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇小心翼翼地走近他，低声说了些什么，向列文做了个手势，然后又往回走。

The priest lighted two candles, wreathed with flowers, and holding them sideways so that the wax dropped slowly from them he turned, facing the bridal pair. The priest was the same old man that had confessed Levin. He looked with weary and melancholy eyes at the bride and bridegroom, sighed, and putting his right hand out from his vestment, blessed the bridegroom with it, and also with a shade of solicitous tenderness laid the crossed fingers on the bowed head of Kitty. Then he gave them the candles, and taking the censer, moved slowly away from them.
牧师点燃了两根蜡烛，上面挂着鲜花，他侧身握住蜡烛，让蜡慢慢从蜡烛上掉下来，然后他转身面向新婚夫妇。神父就是当年向莱文告白的那位老人。他用疲倦而忧郁的眼神看着新娘和新郎，叹了口气，从法衣中伸出右手，为新郎祝福，还带着一丝关切的温柔，将交叉的手指放在基蒂低下的头上。然后他给了他们蜡烛，拿着香炉，慢慢地从他们身边走开。

‘Can it be true?’ thought Levin, and he looked round at his bride. Looking down at her he saw her face in profile, and from the scarcely perceptible quiver of her lips and eyelashes he knew she was aware of his eyes upon her. She did not look round, but the high scalloped collar, that reached her little pink ear, trembled faintly. He saw that a sigh was held back in her throat, and the little hand in the long glove shook as it held the candle.
“这是真的吗？”莱文想道，他转头看着他的新娘。他低头看着她，看到了她的侧脸，从她嘴唇和睫毛几乎察觉不到的颤动中，他知道她知道他的眼睛在看着她。她没有回头看，只是一直垂到粉红色小耳朵的高高的扇形领子在微微颤抖。他看到她喉咙里憋着一声叹息，戴着长手套的小手拿着蜡烛时颤抖着。

All the fuss of the shirt, of being late, all the talk of friends and relations, their annoyance, his ludicrous position—all suddenly passed away and he was filled with joy and dread.
所有关于衬衫的大惊小怪、迟到、所有朋友和亲戚的谈话、他们的烦恼、他可笑的立场——所有这些都突然消失了，他充满了喜悦和恐惧。

The handsome, stately head-deacon wearing a silver robe and his curly locks standing out at each side of his head, stepped smartly forward, and lifting his stole on two fingers, stood opposite the priest.
那位英俊威严、穿着银色长袍、鬈发在头两侧突出的英俊威严的主执事，潇洒地向前迈了一步，用两根手指提起圣带，站在神父对面。

‘Blessed be the name of the Lord,’ the solemn syllables rang out slowly one after another, setting the air quivering with waves of sound.
“主的名是应当称颂的”，庄严的音节一个接一个地缓缓响起，空气中都颤动着阵阵音浪。

‘Blessed is the name of our God, from the beginning, is now, and ever shall be,’ the little old priest answered in a submissive, piping voice, still fingering something at the lectern. And the full chorus of the unseen choir rose up, filling the whole church, from the windows to the vaulted roof, with broad waves of melody. It grew stronger, rested for an instant, and slowly died away.
“我们上帝的名是受称颂的，从一开始，现在是，直到永远，”小个子老牧师用顺从的、尖利的声音回答，手指仍然在讲台上指着什么东西。看不见的唱诗班的全体合唱声响起，整个教堂从窗户到拱形屋顶都充满了宽广的旋律。它变得更强，休息了一会儿，然后慢慢消失。

They prayed, as they always do, for peace from on high and for salvation, for the Holy Synod, and for the Tsar; they prayed, too, for the servants of God, Konstantin and Ekaterina, now plighting their troth.
他们一如既往地祈求上天的和平、救赎、神圣主教会议和沙皇；他们也为上帝的仆人康斯坦丁和叶卡捷琳娜祈祷，现在他们正在宣誓。

‘Vouchsafe to them love made perfect, peace and help, O Lord, we beseech Thee,’ the whole church seemed to breathe with the voice of the head deacon.
“主啊，我们恳求您，赐予他们完美的爱、和平与帮助，”整个教堂似乎都在呼吸着执事长的声音。

Levin heard the words, and they impressed him. ‘How did they guess that it is help, just help that one wants?’ he thought, recalling all his fears and doubts of late. ‘What do I know? what can I do in this fearful business,’ he thought, ‘without help? Yes, it is help I want now.’
莱文听到这些话，给他留下了深刻的印象。 “他们怎么猜到这是帮助，只是一个人想要的帮助？”他想道，回想起他最近所有的恐惧和疑虑。 '我知道什么？ “在这个可怕的行业里，如果没有帮助，我能做什么呢？”他想。是的，我现在想要的就是帮助。

When the deacon had finished the prayer for the Imperial family, the priest turned to the bridal pair with a book: ‘Eternal God, that joinest together in love them that were separate,’ he read in a gentle, piping voice: ‘who hast ordained the union of holy wedlock that cannot be set asunder, Thou who didst bless Isaac and Rebecca and their descendants, according to Thy Holy Covenant; bless Thy servants, Konstantin and Ekaterina, leading them in the path of all good works. For gracious and merciful art Thou, our Lord, and glory be to Thee, the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost, now and ever shall be.’
当执事完成为皇室的祈祷后，神父拿着一本书转向这对新娘：“永恒的上帝，将分离的人们团结在一起，”他用温柔、尖利的声音读道：“谁拥有这本书？”祢根据祢的圣约，祝福了以撒和丽贝卡以及他们的后裔，并命定了不可分割的神圣婚姻。祝福您的仆人康斯坦丁和叶卡捷琳娜，引导他们走上一切善行的道路。因为你是仁慈仁慈的，我们的主，荣耀归于你，圣父，圣子，圣灵，从现在到永远。

‘Amen!’ the unseen choir sent rolling again upon the air.
“阿门！”看不见的唱诗班再次在空中滚动。

‘‘Joinest together in love them that were separate.’ What deep meaning in those words, and how they correspond with what one feels at this moment,’ thought Levin. ‘Is she feeling the same as I?’
“用爱将分离的人结合在一起。”这句话的含义多么深刻，以及它们如何与一个人此时此刻的感受相呼应，”莱文想。 “她的感觉和我一样吗？”

And looking round, he met her eyes, and from their expression he concluded that she was understanding it just as he was. But this was a mistake; she almost completely missed the meaning of the words of the service; she had not heard them, in fact. She could not listen to them and take them in, so strong was the one feeling that filled her breast and grew stronger and stronger. That feeling was joy at the completion of the process that for the last month and a half had been going on in her soul, and had during those six weeks been a joy and a torture to her. On the day when in the drawing room of the house in Arbaty Street she had gone up to him in her brown dress, and given herself to him without a word—on that day, at that hour, there took place in her heart a complete severance from all her old life, and a quite different, new, utterly strange life had begun for her, while the old life was actually going on as before. Those six weeks had for her been a time of the utmost bliss and the utmost misery. All her life, all her desires and hopes were concentrated on this one man, still uncomprehended by her, to whom she was bound by a feeling of alternate attraction and repulsion, even less comprehended than the man himself, and all the while she was going on living in the outward conditions of her old life. Living the old life, she was horrified at herself, at her utter insurmountable callousness to all her own past, to things, to habits, to the people she had loved, who loved her—to her mother, who was wounded by her indifference, to her kind, tender father, till then dearer than all the world. At one moment she was horrified at this indifference, at another she rejoiced at what had brought her to this indifference. She could not frame a thought, not a wish apart from life with this man; but this new life was not yet, and she could not even picture it clearly to herself. There was only anticipation, the dread and joy of the new and the unknown. And now behold—anticipation and uncertainty and remorse at the abandonment of the old life—all was ending, and the new was beginning. This new life could not but have terrors for her inexperience; but, terrible or not, the change had been wrought six weeks before in her soul, and this was merely the final sanction of what had long been completed in her heart.
他环顾四周，与她的目光相遇，从他们的表情中，他断定她和他一样明白这一点。但这是一个错误。她几乎完全听不懂服务的意思。事实上，她没有听到他们的声音。她无法倾听他们的诉说，无法理解他们，因为一种感觉是如此强烈，充满了她的胸膛，并且变得越来越强烈。那种感觉是一种喜悦，一种在过去一个半月里一直在她灵魂中进行的过程完成的喜悦，而在那六个星期里，对她来说既是一种喜悦，也是一种折磨。那天，在阿尔巴蒂街那栋房子的客厅里，她穿着棕色衣服走到他面前，一言不发地把自己交给了他——那天，那个时刻，她的心里发生了一次彻底的转变。她与一切旧的生活断绝了，一种完全不同的、新的、完全陌生的生活开始了，而旧的生活实际上还在继续。这六个星期对她来说是最幸福也是最痛苦的时光。她一生，所有的欲望和希望都集中在这个男人身上，而她仍然不理解这个男人，她被一种交替吸引和排斥的感觉所束缚，甚至比这个男人本身更不被理解，而她一直在走向这个男人。生活在她旧生活的外在条件中。过着过去的生活，她对自己感到震惊，对自己的过去、对事物、对习惯、对她所爱的人、对她的母亲——对因她的冷漠而受伤的母亲——的极度冷漠感到震惊，献给她善良、温柔的父亲，直到那时，他比全世界都更亲爱。一会儿她对这种冷漠感到惊恐，一会儿又为是什么让她变得如此冷漠而庆幸。 除了和这个男人一起生活之外，她无法构想任何想法或愿望。但新的生活还没有到来，她自己都无法清楚地想象出来。只有期待、对新事物和未知事物的恐惧和喜悦。现在看吧——对放弃旧生活的期待、不确定和悔恨——一切都结束了，新的生活正在开始。这个新生活不能不为她的缺乏经验而感到恐惧。但是，无论可怕与否，这种变化在六​​周前就已经在她的灵魂中发生了，而这只是她心中早已完成的事情的最后认可。

Turning again to the lectern, the priest with some difficulty took Kitty’s little ring, and asking Levin for his hand, put it on the first joint of his finger. ‘The servant of God, Konstantin, plights his troth to the servant of God, Ekaterina.’ And putting his big ring on Kitty’s touchingly weak, pink little finger, the priest said the same thing.
神父又转向讲台，有些困难地接过基蒂的小戒指，请莱文伸出手，把它戴在他手指的第一个关节上。 “上帝的仆人康斯坦丁向上帝的仆人叶卡捷琳娜许诺。”神父把大戒指戴在基蒂那柔弱得动人的粉红色小指上，说了同样的话。

And the bridal pair tried several times to understand what they had to do, and each time made some mistake and were corrected by the priest in a whisper. At last, having duly performed the ceremony, having signed the rings with the cross, the priest handed Kitty the big ring, and Levin the little one. Again they were puzzled, and passed the rings from hand to hand, still without doing what was expected.
新婚夫妇多次尝试了解自己必须做什么，但每次都犯了一些错误，并被神父低声纠正。最后，正式举行了仪式，在戒指上画了十字，牧师把大戒指递给基蒂，把小戒指递给莱文。他们再次感到困惑，并把戒指从一只手传递到另一只手，但仍然没有按照预期做。

Dolly, Tchirikov, and Stepan Arkadyevitch stepped forward to set them right. There was an interval of hesitation, whispering, and smiles; but the expression of solemn emotion on the faces of the betrothed pair did not change: on the contrary, in their perplexity over their hands they looked more grave and deeply moved than before, and the smile with which Stepan Arkadyevitch whispered to them that now they would each put on their own ring died away on his lips. He had a feeling that any smile would jar on them.
多莉、奇里科夫和斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇上前去纠正他们。中间有一阵犹豫，一阵窃窃私语，一阵微笑。但是，这对未婚夫脸上庄重的表情并没有改变：相反，他们对自己的手感到困惑，看上去比以前更加严肃，更加感动，斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇低声对他们说，现在他们的笑容更加严肃。每个人都会戴上自己的戒指，然后在他的嘴唇上消失。他有一种感觉，任何微笑都会刺痛他们。

‘Thou who didst from the beginning create male and female,’ the priest read after the exchange of rings, ‘from Thee woman was given to man to be a helpmeet to him, and for the procreation of children. O Lord, our God, who hast poured down the blessings of Thy Truth according to Thy Holy Covenant upon Thy chosen servants, our fathers, from generation to generation, bless Thy servants Konstantin and Ekaterina, and make their troth fast in faith, and union of hearts, and truth, and love....’
“你从一开始就创造了男性和女性，”牧师在交换戒指后念道，“从你那里，女人被赋予男人，作为他的帮助者，并生育孩子。”主啊，我们的上帝，您根据您的圣约，将您的真理的祝福倾注在您所选择的仆人，我们的祖先，世世代代，祝福您的仆人康斯坦丁和叶卡捷琳娜，并在信仰和团结中发誓心灵、真理和爱……”

Levin felt more and more that all his ideas of marriage, all his dreams of how he would order his life, were mere childishness, and that it was something he had not understood hitherto, and now understood less than ever, though it was being performed upon him. The lump in his throat rose higher and higher, tears that would not be checked came into his eyes.
莱文越来越觉得，他所有关于婚姻的想法，所有关于如何安排自己生活的梦想，都只是幼稚，这是他迄今为止不理解的事情，现在比以往任何时候都更了解，尽管它正在实施在他身上。他喉咙里的肿块越来越高，泪水止不住地涌入眼眶。

Chapter 5
第5章

In the church there was all Moscow, all the friends and relations; and during the ceremony of plighting troth, in the brilliantly lighted church, there was an incessant flow of discreetly subdued talk in the circle of gaily dressed women and girls, and men in white ties, frockcoats, and uniforms. The talk was principally kept up by the men, while the women were absorbed in watching every detail of the ceremony, which always means so much to them.
教堂里聚集了整个莫斯科，所有的朋友和亲戚。在宣誓仪式期间，在灯火辉煌的教堂里，衣着华丽的妇女和女孩以及系着白领带、穿着燕尾服和制服的男人们不断地在谨慎地低声交谈。谈话主要由男人们继续进行，而女人们则全神贯注地观看仪式的每一个细节，这对她们来说总是意义重大。

In the little group nearest to the bride were her two sisters: Dolly, and the other one, the self-possessed beauty, Madame Lvova, who had just arrived from abroad.
离新娘最近的一小群人里有她的两个姐妹：多莉，还有一个是刚从国外回来的端庄美丽的利沃娃夫人。

‘Why is it Marie’s in lilac, as bad as black, at a wedding?’ said Madame Korsunskaya.
“为什么玛丽在婚礼上穿淡紫色，和黑色一样难看？”科尔孙斯卡娅夫人问道。

‘With her complexion, it’s the one salvation,’ responded Madame Trubetskaya. ‘I wonder why they had the wedding in the evening? It’s like shop-people...’
“凭借她的肤色，这是唯一的救赎，”特鲁别茨卡娅夫人回答道。 “我想知道他们为什么在晚上举行婚礼？就像商店里的人一样……”

‘So much prettier. I was married in the evening too...’ answered Madame Korsunskaya, and she sighed, remembering how charming she had been that day, and how absurdly in love her husband was, and how different it all was now.
‘真是漂亮多了。我也是在晚上结婚的……”科尔孙斯卡娅夫人回答道，她叹了口气，想起那天自己是多么迷人，她的丈夫是多么荒唐地相爱，而现在这一切是多么不同。

‘They say if anyone’s best man more than ten times, he’ll never be married. I wanted to be for the tenth time, but the post was taken,’ said Count Siniavin to the pretty Princess Tcharskaya, who had designs on him.
“他们说，如果一个人当伴郎超过十次，他就永远不会结婚。我第十次想成为这样的人，但这个职位被占据了。”西尼亚文伯爵对漂亮的查斯卡娅公主说道，她对他有企图。

Princess Tcharskaya only answered with a smile. She looked at Kitty, thinking how and when she would stand with Count Siniavin in Kitty’s place, and how she would remind him then of his joke today.
查斯卡娅公主只是微笑着回答。她看着基蒂，想着她将如何以及何时代替基蒂与西尼亚文伯爵站在一起，以及她将如何提醒他今天的笑话。

Shtcherbatsky told the old maid of honor, Madame Nikolaeva, that he meant to put the crown on Kitty’s chignon for luck.
谢尔巴茨基告诉老伴娘尼古拉耶娃夫人，他打算把王冠戴在凯蒂的发髻上以求好运。

‘She ought not to have worn a chignon,’ answered Madame Nikolaeva, who had long ago made up her mind that if the elderly widower she was angling for married her, the wedding should be of the simplest. ‘I don’t like such grandeur.’
“她不应该梳发髻。”尼古拉耶娃夫人回答道，她早就下定决心，如果她要找的老鳏夫娶了她，婚礼就应该是最简单的。 “我不喜欢这么宏伟。”

Sergey Ivanovitch was talking to Darya Dmitrievna, jestingly assuring her that the custom of going away after the wedding was becoming common because newly married people always felt a little ashamed of themselves.
谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇正在与达里娅·德米特里耶夫娜交谈，开玩笑地向她保证，婚礼后离开的习俗已经变得很普遍，因为新婚的人总是感到有点羞耻。

‘Your brother may feel proud of himself. She’s a marvel of sweetness. I believe you’re envious.’
“你的兄弟可能会为自己感到骄傲。她是一个甜蜜的奇迹。我相信你很嫉妒。

‘Oh, I’ve got over that, Darya Dmitrievna,’ he answered, and a melancholy and serious expression suddenly came over his face.
“哦，我已经克服了，达里娅·德米特里耶夫娜，”他回答道，脸上突然露出忧郁而严肃的表情。

Stepan Arkadyevitch was telling his sister-in-law his joke about divorce.
斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇正在给他的嫂子讲他关于离婚的笑话。

‘The wreath wants setting straight,’ she answered, not hearing him.
“花环需要伸直，”她回答道，没有听到他的声音。

‘What a pity she’s lost her looks so,’ Countess Nordston said to Madame Lvova. ‘Still he’s not worth her little finger, is he?’
“真可惜，她已经失去了容貌，”诺德斯顿伯爵夫人对利沃娃夫人说道。 “但他还是配不上她的小指头，不是吗？”

‘Oh, I like him so—not because he’s my future beau-frere,’ answered Madame Lvova. ‘And how well he’s behaving! It’s so difficult, too, to look well in such a position, not to be ridiculous. And he’s not ridiculous, and not affected; one can see he’s moved.’
“哦，我这么喜欢他——并不是因为他是我未来的情人，”利沃娃夫人回答道。 ‘他的表现多好啊！在这样的位置上，要保持良好的形象，而不是显得可笑，也是非常困难的。他并不荒唐，也不做作；人们可以看到他已经感动了。

‘You expected it, I suppose?’
“我想你早就预料到了？”

‘Almost. She always cared for him.’
'几乎。她总是关心他。

‘Well, we shall see which of them will step on the rug first. I warned Kitty.’
“好吧，我们看看他们中谁会先踏上地毯。我警告过基蒂。

‘It will make no difference,’ said Madame Lvova; ‘we’re all obedient wives; it’s in our family.’
“这没什么区别，”利沃娃夫人说。 ‘我们都是听话的妻子；这是我们家的。”

‘Oh, I stepped on the rug before Vassily on purpose. And you, Dolly?’
“哦，我是故意踩到瓦西里前面的地毯的。”你呢，多莉？

Dolly stood beside them; she heard them, but she did not answer. She was deeply moved. The tears stood in her eyes, and she could not have spoken without crying. She was rejoicing over Kitty and Levin; going back in thought to her own wedding, she glanced at the radiant figure of Stepan Arkadyevitch, forgot all the present, and remembered only her own innocent love. She recalled not herself only, but all her women-friends and acquaintances. She thought of them on the one day of their triumph, when they had stood like Kitty under the wedding crown, with love and hope and dread in their hearts, renouncing the past, and stepping forward into the mysterious future. Among the brides that came back to her memory, she thought too of her darling Anna, of whose proposed divorce she had just been hearing. And she had stood just as innocent in orange flowers and bridal veil. And now? ‘It’s terribly strange,’ she said to herself. It was not merely the sisters, the women-friends and female relations of the bride who were following every detail of the ceremony. Women who were quite strangers, mere spectators, were watching it excitedly, holding their breath, in fear of losing a single movement or expression of the bride and bridegroom, and angrily not answering, often not hearing, the remarks of the callous men, who kept making joking or irrelevant observations.
多莉站在他们旁边。她听到了他们的声音，但没有回答。她深受感动。她的眼里噙着泪水，说不出话来，不哭不出来。她为基蒂和莱文感到高兴。她回想起自己的婚礼，瞥了一眼斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇容光焕发的身影，忘记了眼前的一切，只记得自己天真的爱情。她不仅想起了自己，还想起了所有的女性朋友和熟人。她想起他们凯旋的那一天，当时他们像凯蒂一样站在结婚王冠下，心中充满爱、希望和恐惧，放弃过去，迈向神秘的未来。在她回想起的新娘中，她也想起了她亲爱的安娜，她刚刚听说她要离婚。她也同样天真地站在橙色的鲜花和新娘面纱中。现在？ “这太奇怪了，”她对自己说。关注仪式每一个细节的不仅仅是新娘的姐妹们、女性朋友和女性亲属。那些完全陌生的女人们，仅仅是旁观者，兴奋地看着这一切，屏住呼吸，生怕失去新娘和新郎的任何一个动作或表情，并愤怒地不回答，常常不听那些冷酷无情的男人们的言论。不断开玩笑或发表不相关的言论。

‘Why has she been crying? Is she being married against her will?’
‘她为什么哭？她是否违背自己的意愿结婚了？

‘Against her will to a fine fellow like that? A prince, isn’t he?’
“违背她的意愿去对待这样一个好人？一位王子，不是吗？

‘Is that her sister in the white satin? Just listen how the deacon booms out, ‘And fearing her husband.’’
“那是她穿白缎子的妹妹吗？听听执事如何大声说道：“并且害怕她的丈夫。”

‘Are the choristers from Tchudovo?’
“唱诗班成员是来自楚多沃吗？”

‘No, from the Synod.’
“不，来自主教会议。”

‘I asked the footman. He says he’s going to take her home to his country place at once. Awfully rich, they say. That’s why she’s being married to him.’
“我问男仆。他说他要立刻带她回到他乡下的家。他们说，非常富有。这就是她嫁给他的原因。

‘No, they’re a well-matched pair.’
“不，他们是天生一对。”

‘I say, Marya Vassilievna, you were making out those fly-away crinolines were not being worn. Just look at her in the puce dress—an ambassador’s wife they say she is—how her skirt bounces out from side to side!’
“我说，玛丽亚·瓦西里耶夫娜，你发现那些飘逸的裙衬没有被穿着。只要看看她穿着深褐色连衣裙——他们说她是大使的妻子——她的裙子是如何从一边跳到另一边的！

‘What a pretty dear the bride is—like a lamb decked with flowers! Well, say what you will, we women feel for our sister.’
“新娘真是个可爱的人，就像一只鲜花装饰的羔羊！”好吧，随你怎么说，我们女人对我们的妹妹有感觉。

Such were the comments in the crowd of gazing women who had succeeded in slipping in at the church doors.
这是成功溜进教堂门口的围观妇女们的评论。

Chapter 6
第6章

When the ceremony of plighting troth was over, the beadle spread before the lectern in the middle of the church a piece of pink silken stuff, the choir sang a complicated and elaborate psalm, in which the bass and tenor sang responses to one another, and the priest turning round pointed the bridal pair to the pink silk rug. Though both had often heard a great deal about the saying that the one who steps first on the rug will be the head of the house, neither Levin nor Kitty were capable of recollecting it, as they took the few steps towards it. They did not hear the loud remarks and disputes that followed, some maintaining he had stepped on first, and others that both had stepped on together.
许愿仪式结束后，执事在教堂中央的讲台前铺上了一块粉红色的丝质东西，唱诗班唱起了一首复杂而精致的圣歌，其中男低音和男高音互相回应，神父转过身来，将这对新人指向粉红色的丝绸地毯。尽管两人都经常听到这样一句话：第一个踏上地毯的人将成为一家之主，但莱文和基蒂都无法回忆起这句话，因为他们朝着这句话迈出了几步。他们没有听到随之而来的大声议论和争执，有的认为是他先踩的，有的则认为是两人一起踩的。

After the customary questions, whether they desired to enter upon matrimony, and whether they were pledged to anyone else, and their answers, which sounded strange to themselves, a new ceremony began. Kitty listened to the words of the prayer, trying to make out their meaning, but she could not. The feeling of triumph and radiant happiness flooded her soul more and more as the ceremony went on, and deprived her of all power of attention.
在问了他们是否愿意结婚、是否向其他人发誓等例行问题以及他们自己听起来很奇怪的答案之后，一个新的仪式开始了。基蒂听着祈祷词，试图理解其中的含义，但她无法理解。随着仪式的进行，胜利和幸福的感觉越来越淹没她的灵魂，并剥夺了她所有的注意力。

They prayed: ‘Endow them with continence and fruitfulness, and vouchsafe that their hearts may rejoice looking upon their sons and daughters.’ They alluded to God’s creation of a wife from Adam’s rib ‘and for this cause a man shall leave father and mother, and cleave unto his wife, and they two shall be one flesh,’ and that ‘this is a great mystery”; they prayed that God would make them fruitful and bless them, like Isaac and Rebecca, Joseph, Moses and Zipporah, and that they might look upon their children’s children. ‘That’s all splendid,’ thought Kitty, catching the words, ‘all that’s just as it should be,’ and a smile of happiness, unconsciously reflected in everyone who looked at her, beamed on her radiant face.
他们祈祷：“赐予他们节制和多结果子，让他们看着自己的儿女，心里会感到高兴。”他们暗指上帝用亚当的肋骨创造了一个妻子，“为此，男人要离开父母，并与他的妻子结合，他们两个将成为一体，”并且“这是一个巨大的谜”；他们祈求上帝使他们生养众多，赐福给他们，就像以撒和利百加、约瑟、摩西和西坡拉一样，并祈求他们能看到自己子子孙孙。 “这一切都太棒了，”基蒂听到这句话后想，“一切都是理所应当的。”每个看着她的人都会不自觉地反射出幸福的微笑，她容光焕发的脸上绽放着光芒。

‘Put it on quite,’ voices were heard urging when the priest had put on the wedding crowns and Shtcherbatsky, his hand shaking in its three-button glove, held the crown high above her head.
当神父戴上结婚王冠时，有人催促道：“戴上吧。”谢尔巴茨基戴上三扣手套的手在颤抖，他将王冠高高举过她的头顶。

‘Put it on!’ she whispered, smiling.
“穿上它！”她微笑着低声说道。

Levin looked round at her, and was struck by the joyful radiance on her face, and unconsciously her feeling infected him. He too, like her felt glad and happy.
莱文回头看了她一眼，被她脸上喜悦的光芒所震撼，这种感觉不知不觉地感染了他。他也和她一样感到高兴和幸福。

They enjoyed hearing the epistle read, and the roll of the head deacon’s voice at the last verse, awaited with such impatience by the outside public. They enjoyed drinking out of the shallow cup of warm red wine and water, and they were still more pleased when the priest, flinging back his stole and taking both their hands in his, led them round the lectern to the accompaniment of bass voices chanting ‘Glory to God.’
他们很高兴听到这封信的朗读，以及最后一节主执事的声音，外面的公众如此不耐烦地等待着。他们喜欢喝那浅杯温热的红酒和水，当神父甩开他的披肩，握住他们的双手，在低音的伴奏下带领他们绕过讲台时，他们更加高兴了。荣耀归于上帝。

Shtcherbatsky and Tchirikov, supporting the crowns and stumbling over the bride’s train, smiling too and seeming delighted at something, were at one moment left behind, at the next treading on the bridal pair as the priest came to a halt. The spark of joy kindled in Kitty seemed to have infected everyone in the church. It seemed to Levin that the priest and the deacon too wanted to smile just as he did.
谢尔巴茨基和奇里科夫扶着王冠，绊倒新娘的拖尾，也微笑着，似乎对什么感到高兴，他们一会儿被落在后面，一会儿踩在新娘身上，神父停了下来。基蒂身上燃起的喜悦火花似乎感染了教堂里的每一个人。莱文觉得神父和执事也想像他一样微笑。

Taking the crowns off their heads the priest read the last prayer and congratulated the young people. Levin looked at Kitty, and he had never before seen her look as she did. She was charming with the new radiance of happiness in her face. Levin longed to say something to her, but he did not know whether it was all over. The priest got him out of his difficulty. He smiled his kindly smile and said gently, ‘Kiss your wife, and you kiss your husband,’ and took the candles out of their hands.
神父摘下他们头上的王冠，宣读了最后的祈祷文，并向年轻人表示祝贺。莱文看着基蒂，他以前从未见过她这样的表情。她的脸上洋溢着幸福的新光芒，非常迷人。莱文很想对她说点什么，但他不知道一切是否都结束了。神父把他从困境中解救出来。他露出慈祥的微笑，温柔地说：“亲吻你的妻子，你也亲吻你的丈夫。”然后从他们手中拿走了蜡烛。

Levin kissed her smiling lips with timid care, gave her his arm, and with a new strange sense of closeness, walked out of the church. He did not believe, he could not believe, that it was true. It was only when their wondering and timid eyes met that he believed in it, because he felt that they were one.
莱文小心翼翼地吻了一下她微笑的嘴唇，伸出手臂，带着一种新奇的亲近感走出了教堂。他不相信，他无法相信这是真的。当他们疑惑而胆怯的目光相遇时，他才相信了这一点，因为他觉得他们是一体的。

After supper, the same night, the young people left for the country.
晚饭后，当晚，年轻人就动身前往乡下。

Chapter 7
第7章

Vronsky and Anna had been traveling for three months together in Europe. They had visited Venice, Rome, and Naples, and had just arrived at a small Italian town where they meant to stay some time. A handsome head waiter, with thick pomaded hair parted from the neck upwards, an evening coat, a broad white cambric shirt front, and a bunch of trinkets hanging above his rounded stomach, stood with his hands in the full curve of his pockets, looking contemptuously from under his eyelids while he gave some frigid reply to a gentleman who had stopped him. Catching the sound of footsteps coming from the other side of the entry towards the staircase, the head waiter turned round, and seeing the Russian count, who had taken their best rooms, he took his hands out of his pockets deferentially, and with a bow informed him that a courier had been, and that the business about the palazzo had been arranged. The steward was prepared to sign the agreement.
渥伦斯基和安娜一起在欧洲旅行了三个月。他们参观了威尼斯、罗马和那不勒斯，刚刚抵达意大利的一个小镇，打算在那里停留一段时间。一位英俊的侍者领班，浓密的头发从脖子以上分开，穿着晚礼服，前面穿着宽大的白色麻布衬衫，圆圆的肚子上挂着一堆小饰品，他站在那里，双手插在口袋里，看上去他眼皮底下轻蔑地说道，同时他对阻止他的一位绅士做出了冷酷的回答。听到从入口另一侧向楼梯方向传来的脚步声，领班转过身来，看到俄罗斯伯爵已经占据了他们最好的房间，他恭敬地从口袋里抽出双手，鞠了一躬。通知他已经有信使来了，有关宫殿的事务已经安排好了。管家准备在协议上签字。

‘Ah! I’m glad to hear it,’ said Vronsky. ‘Is madame at home or not?’
'啊！我很高兴听到这个消息，”渥伦斯基说道。 “夫人在家吗？”

‘Madame has been out for a walk but has returned now,’ answered the waiter.
“夫人出去散步了，现在回来了。”服务员回答道。

Vronsky took off his soft, wide-brimmed hat and passed his handkerchief over his heated brow and hair, which had grown half over his ears, and was brushed back covering the bald patch on his head. And glancing casually at the gentleman, who still stood there gazing intently at him, he would have gone on.
渥伦斯基摘下柔软的宽边帽子，用手帕捂住滚烫的额头和头发，头发已经长到一半盖过耳朵，又被向后梳，盖住了头上的秃顶。他若无其事地看了一眼那位仍然站在那里专心致志地看着他的绅士，他就继续说下去。

‘This gentleman is a Russian, and was inquiring after you,’ said the head waiter.
“这位先生是俄罗斯人，他来打听你的情况。”领班说道。

With mingled feelings of annoyance at never being able to get away from acquaintances anywhere, and longing to find some sort of diversion from the monotony of his life, Vronsky looked once more at the gentleman, who had retreated and stood still again, and at the same moment a light came into the eyes of both.
渥伦斯基怀着复杂的心情，因为在任何地方都无法摆脱熟人，并渴望找到某种方式来摆脱单调的生活，渥伦斯基再次看了看那位退后又站着的绅士，又看了看那位先生。同一时间，两人眼中都闪现出光芒。

‘Golenishtchev!’
“戈列尼切夫！”

‘Vronsky!’
“渥伦斯基！”

It really was Golenishtchev, a comrade of Vronsky’s in the Corps of Pages. In the corps Golenishtchev had belonged to the liberal party; he left the corps without entering the army, and had never taken office under the government. Vronsky and he had gone completely different ways on leaving the corps, and had only met once since.
确实是戈列尼什切夫，渥伦斯基在侍从军团的一位战友。在部队中，戈列尼切夫属于自由党。他没有入伍就离开了部队，也从未在政府任职。离开军团后，渥伦斯基和他走上了完全不同的道路，此后只见过一次面。

At that meeting Vronsky perceived that Golenishtchev had taken up a sort of lofty, intellectually liberal line, and was consequently disposed to look down upon Vronsky’s interests and calling in life. Hence Vronsky had met him with the chilling and haughty manner he so well knew how to assume, the meaning of which was: ‘You may like or dislike my way of life, that’s a matter of the most perfect indifference to me; you will have to treat me with respect if you want to know me.’ Golenishtchev had been contemptuously indifferent to the tone taken by Vronsky. This second meeting might have been expected, one would have supposed, to estrange them still more. But now they beamed and exclaimed with delight on recognizing one another. Vronsky would never have expected to be so pleased to see Golenishtchev, but probably he was not himself aware how bored he was. He forgot the disagreeable impression of their last meeting, and with a face of frank delight held out his hand to his old comrade. The same expression of delight replaced the look of uneasiness on Golenishtchev’s face.
在那次会面中，渥伦斯基发现戈列尼切夫采取了一种崇高的、思想上自由的路线，因此倾向于看不起渥伦斯基的兴趣和生活使命。因此，渥伦斯基以他非常熟悉的冷漠和傲慢的态度来迎接他，其含义是：“你可以喜欢或不喜欢我的生活方式，那是对我最完美的漠不关心的问题;”如果你想了解我，就必须尊重我。”戈列尼切夫对渥伦斯基的语气表现出轻蔑的漠不关心。人们可能会认为，第二次会面会让他们更加疏远。但现在，他们因认出了彼此而露出笑容并高兴地惊呼起来。渥伦斯基从来没想到见到戈列尼切夫会如此高兴，但他自己可能并没有意识到自己有多无聊。他忘记了上次见面时的不愉快印象，一脸坦率的高兴向他的老战友伸出了手。戈列尼切夫脸上同样的喜悦表情取代了不安的表情。

‘How glad I am to meet you!’ said Vronsky, showing his strong white teeth in a friendly smile.
“我很高兴见到你！”渥伦斯基说道，友好地微笑着，露出一口洁白的牙齿。

‘I heard the name Vronsky, but I didn’t know which one. I’m very, very glad!’
“我听说过渥伦斯基这个名字，但不知道是哪一个。我非常非常高兴！

‘Let’s go in. Come, tell me what you’re doing.’
“我们进去吧。来吧，告诉我你在做什么。”

‘I’ve been living here for two years. I’m working.’
‘我已经在这里住了两年了。我在工作。'

‘Ah!’ said Vronsky, with sympathy; ‘let’s go in.’ And with the habit common with Russians, instead of saying in Russian what he wanted to keep from the servants, he began to speak in French.
“啊！”渥伦斯基同情地说。 “我们进去吧。”按照俄罗斯人的习惯，他没有用俄语说他不想让仆人知道的话，而是开始用法语说话。

‘Do you know Madame Karenina? We are traveling together. I am going to see her now,’ he said in French, carefully scrutinizing Golenishtchev’s face.
“你认识卡列尼娜夫人吗？我们一起旅行。我现在就要去见她，”他用法语说道，同时仔细端详着戈列尼切夫的脸。

‘Ah! I did not know’ (though he did know), Golenishtchev answered carelessly. ‘Have you been here long?’ he added.
'啊！我不知道”（尽管他确实知道），戈列尼切夫漫不经心地回答。 “你来这里很久了吗？”他补充道。

‘Four days,’ Vronsky answered, once more scrutinizing his friend’s face intently.
“四天，”渥伦斯基回答道，再次聚精会神地审视他朋友的脸。

‘Yes, he’s a decent fellow, and will look at the thing properly,’ Vronsky said to himself, catching the significance of Golenishtchev’s face and the change of subject. ‘I can introduce him to Anna, he looks at it properly.’
“是的，他是一个正派的人，会正确地看待这件事，”渥伦斯基自言自语道，意识到了戈列尼切夫表情和话题转变的意义。 “我可以把他介绍给安娜，他看得很清楚。”

During those three months that Vronsky had spent abroad with Anna, he had always on meeting new people asked himself how the new person would look at his relations with Anna, and for the most part, in men, he had met with the ‘proper’ way of looking at it. But if he had been asked, and those who looked at it ‘properly’ had been asked, exactly how they did look at it, both he and they would have been greatly puzzled to answer.
渥伦斯基与安娜一起在国外度过的三个月里，他总是在结识新朋友时问自己，这个新人会如何看待他与安娜的关系，而在大多数情况下，在男人中，他遇到了“合适的”人。看待它的方式。但如果问他，以及那些“正确”看待它的人，他们到底是如何看待它的，他和他们都会非常困惑地回答。

In reality, those who in Vronsky’s opinion had the ‘proper’ view had no sort of view at all, but behaved in general as well-bred persons do behave in regard to all the complex and insoluble problems with which life is encompassed on all sides; they behaved with propriety, avoiding allusions and unpleasant questions. They assumed an air of fully comprehending the import and force of the situation, of accepting and even approving of it, but of considering it superfluous and uncalled for to put all this into words.
事实上，在渥伦斯基看来，那些持有“正确”观点的人根本没有任何观点，但总体上表现得像有教养的人在对待生活中各方面所涉及的所有复杂且无法解决的问题时的表现一样。 ;他们举止得体，避免暗示和令人不快的问题。他们表现出一种完全理解这种情况的重要性和力量、接受甚至赞同的神情，但又认为把这一切都说出来是多余的、没有必要的。

Vronsky at once divined that Golenishtchev was of this class, and therefore was doubly pleased to see him. And in fact, Golenishtchev’s manner to Madame Karenina, when he was taken to call on her, was all that Vronsky could have desired. Obviously without the slightest effort he steered clear of all subjects which might lead to embarrassment.
渥伦斯基立刻猜出戈列尼切夫属于这一类，因此非常高兴见到他。事实上，当戈列尼切夫被带去拜访卡列尼娜夫人时，他对她的态度正是渥伦斯基所希望的。显然，他毫不费力地避开了所有可能导致尴尬的话题。

He had never met Anna before, and was struck by her beauty, and still more by the frankness with which she accepted her position. She blushed when Vronsky brought in Golenishtchev, and he was extremely charmed by this childish blush overspreading her candid and handsome face. But what he liked particularly was the way in which at once, as though on purpose that there might be no misunderstanding with an outsider, she called Vronsky simply Alexey, and said they were moving into a house they had just taken, what was here called a palazzo. Golenishtchev liked this direct and simple attitude to her own position. Looking at Anna’s manner of simple-hearted, spirited gaiety, and knowing Alexey Alexandrovitch and Vronsky, Golenishtchev fancied that he understood her perfectly. He fancied that he understood what she was utterly unable to understand: how it was that, having made her husband wretched, having abandoned him and her son and lost her good name, she yet felt full of spirits, gaiety, and happiness.
他以前从未见过安娜，被她的美丽所震惊，更被她接受自己立场的坦率所震惊。当渥伦斯基把戈列尼切夫带进来时，她脸红了，他被她坦率而英俊的脸庞上的这种孩子气的红晕迷住了。但他特别喜欢的是，她立即称呼渥伦斯基为阿列克谢，仿佛是故意不让外人误会，并说他们要搬进他们刚刚租下的一所房子，这里叫什么一座宫殿。戈列尼什切夫喜欢这种直接而简单的态度来对待自己的立场。看着安娜心地单纯、精神愉快的举止，再加上认识阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇和渥伦斯基，戈列尼什切夫觉得他完全理解她。他自以为理解了她完全无法理解的事情：让她的丈夫变得可怜，抛弃了他和她的儿子，失去了她的好名声，她却感到精神抖擞、欢快、幸福。

‘It’s in the guide-book,’ said Golenishtchev, referring to the palazzo Vronsky had taken. ‘There’s a first-rate Tintoretto there. One of his latest period.’
“旅游指南上有，”戈列尼什切夫说，他指的是渥伦斯基占领的宫殿。 “那里有一流的丁托列托。他最近的时期之一。

‘I tell you what: it’s a lovely day, let’s go and have another look at it,’ said Vronsky, addressing Anna.
“我告诉你：今天是美好的一天，我们去再看看吧，”渥伦斯基对安娜说道。

‘I shall be very glad to; I’ll go and put on my hat. Would you say it’s hot?’ she said, stopping short in the doorway and looking inquiringly at Vronsky. And again a vivid flush overspread her face.
“我将非常高兴；我去戴上帽子。你说天气热吗？”她在门口停下来，询问地看着渥伦斯基。她的脸上再次泛起红晕。

Vronsky saw from her eyes that she did not know on what terms he cared to be with Golenishtchev, and so was afraid of not behaving as he would wish.
渥伦斯基从她的眼神中看出，她不知道他愿意与戈列尼切夫以什么条件相处，因此害怕不按他的意愿行事。

He looked a long, tender look at her.
他长久地、温柔地看着她。

‘No, not very,’ he said.
“不，不是很，”他说。

And it seemed to her that she understood everything, most of all, that he was pleased with her; and smiling to him, she walked with her rapid step out at the door.
在她看来，她明白一切，最重要的是，他对她很满意。她对他微笑着，迈着快步向门口走去。

The friends glanced at one another, and a look of hesitation came into both faces, as though Golenishtchev, unmistakably admiring her, would have liked to say something about her, and could not find the right thing to say, while Vronsky desired and dreaded his doing so.
朋友们互相看了一眼，两人脸上都露出了犹豫的表情，仿佛戈列尼切夫显然很欣赏她，想对她说些什么，却找不到合适的话说，而渥伦斯基则渴望又害怕他的说法。这样做。

‘Well then,’ Vronsky began to start a conversation of some sort; ‘so you’re settled here? You’re still at the same work, then?’ he went on, recalling that he had been told Golenishtchev was writing something.
“那么，”渥伦斯基开始进行某种对话。 ‘这么说你就定居在这里了？那么你还在做同样的工作吗？”他继续说道，回忆起他被告知戈列尼切夫正在写一些东西。

‘Yes, I’m writing the second part of the Two Elements,’ said Golenishtchev, coloring with pleasure at the question—‘that is, to be exact, I am not writing it yet; I am preparing, collecting materials. It will be of far wider scope, and will touch on almost all questions. We in Russia refuse to see that we are the heirs of Byzantium,’ and he launched into a long and heated explanation of his views.
“是的，我正在写《双元素》的第二部分，”戈列尼什切夫说，他对这个问题感到高​​兴，“也就是说，准确地说，我还没有写它；我现在还没有写它。”我正在准备、收集材料。它将涉及更广泛的范围，并将涉及几乎所有问题。我们俄罗斯人拒绝承认自己是拜占庭的继承人。”他对自己的观点进行了冗长而激烈的解释。

Vronsky at the first moment felt embarrassed at not even knowing of the first part of the Two Elements, of which the author spoke as something well known. But as Golenishtchev began to lay down his opinions and Vronsky was able to follow them even without knowing the Two Elements, he listened to him with some interest, for Golenishtchev spoke well. But Vronsky was startled and annoyed by the nervous irascibility with which Golenishtchev talked of the subject that engrossed him. As he went on talking, his eyes glittered more and more angrily; he was more and more hurried in his replies to imaginary opponents, and his face grew more and more excited and worried. Remembering Golenishtchev, a thin, lively, good-natured and well-bred boy, always at the head of the class, Vronsky could not make out the reason of his irritability, and he did not like it. What he particularly disliked was that Golenishtchev, a man belonging to a good set, should put himself on a level with some scribbling fellows, with whom he was irritated and angry. Was it worth it? Vronsky disliked it, yet he felt that Golenishtchev was unhappy, and was sorry for him. Unhappiness, almost mental derangement, was visible on his mobile, rather handsome face, while without even noticing Anna’s coming in, he went on hurriedly and hotly expressing his views.
渥伦斯基一开始感到很尴尬，因为他甚至不知道《两元素》的第一部分，而作者所说的这一部分是众所周知的。但是，当戈列尼切夫开始提出他的观点，而渥伦斯基即使不知道两个元素也能遵循这些观点时，他饶有兴趣地听他讲话，因为戈列​​尼切夫说得很好。但戈列尼切夫在谈论他全神贯注的话题时所表现出的神经质和愤怒让渥伦斯基感到震惊和恼火。说着说着，他的眼里闪烁着越来越愤怒的光芒。他对假想对手的回复越来越匆忙，脸上的表情也越来越激动和担忧。渥伦斯基想起戈列尼切夫这个瘦削、活泼、心地善良、教养良好的男孩，总是在班上名列前茅，他不明白他烦躁的原因，而且他不喜欢这样。他特别不喜欢的是，戈列尼切夫这个好人，竟然把自己和一些乱写乱画的家伙放在同一水平上，他对此感到恼火和愤怒。它值得吗？渥伦斯基不喜欢这样，但他觉得戈列尼切夫不高兴，并且为他感到难过。他那张颇为英俊的脸庞上流露出不快，甚至近乎精神错乱，甚至没有注意到安娜的进来，他就急急忙忙地发表着自己的看法。

When Anna came in in her hat and cape, and her lovely hand rapidly swinging her parasol, and stood beside him, it was with a feeling of relief that Vronsky broke away from the plaintive eyes of Golenishtchev which fastened persistently upon him, and with a fresh rush of love looked at his charming companion, full of life and happiness. Golenishtchev recovered himself with an effort, and at first was dejected and gloomy, but Anna, disposed to feel friendly with everyone as she was at that time, soon revived his spirits by her direct and lively manner. After trying various subjects of conversation, she got him upon painting, of which he talked very well, and she listened to him attentively. They walked to the house they had taken, and looked over it.
当安娜戴着帽子、披着斗篷走进来，她那可爱的手飞快地挥舞着阳伞，站在他身边时，渥伦斯基从戈列尼切夫那双哀怨的目光中挣脱开来，这双眼睛一直牢牢地盯着他，他感到一种如释重负的感觉。新鲜的爱情看着他迷人的伴侣，充满生机和幸福。戈列尼切夫费了好大劲才恢复过来，一开始心情沮丧、阴郁，但安娜像当时那样对每个人都表现得很友好，很快就以她直接而活泼的态度使他精神振奋。在尝试了各种谈话话题后，她聊到了他的绘画，他谈得很好，她也聚精会神地听他说话。他们走到他们占领的房子前，仔细查看了一下。

‘I am very glad of one thing,’ said Anna to Golenishtchev when they were on their way back, ‘Alexey will have a capital atelier. You must certainly take that room,’ she said to Vronsky in Russian, using the affectionately familiar form as though she saw that Golenishtchev would become intimate with them in their isolation, and that there was no need of reserve before him.
“我很高兴有一件事，”在回来的路上，安娜对戈列尼切夫说，“阿列克谢将拥有一个资本工作室。”你一定要占据那个房间，”她用俄语对渥伦斯基说，用的是亲切而熟悉的形式，仿佛她看到戈列尼切夫会在他们孤立的情况下与他们变得亲密，并且在他面前不需要保留。

‘Do you paint?’ said Golenishtchev, turning round quickly to Vronsky.
“你画画吗？”戈列尼切夫迅速转向渥伦斯基问道。

‘Yes, I used to study long ago, and now I have begun to do a little,’ said Vronsky, reddening.
“是的，我很久以前就学过，现在我开始学一点了。”渥伦斯基脸红了，说道。

‘He has great talent,’ said Anna with a delighted smile. ‘I’m no judge, of course. But good judges have said the same.’
“他很有天赋。”安娜高兴地微笑着说道。 “当然，我不是法官。但优秀的法官也说过同样的话。”

Chapter 8
第8章

Anna, in that first period of her emancipation and rapid return to health, felt herself unpardonably happy and full of the joy of life. The thought of her husband’s unhappiness did not poison her happiness. On one side that memory was too awful to be thought of. On the other side her husband’s unhappiness had given her too much happiness to be regretted. The memory of all that had happened after her illness: her reconciliation with her husband, its breakdown, the news of Vronsky’s wound, his visit, the preparations for divorce, the departure from her husband’s house, the parting from her son—all that seemed to her like a delirious dream, from which she had waked up alone with Vronsky abroad. The thought of the harm caused to her husband aroused in her a feeling like repulsion, and akin to what a drowning man might feel who has shaken off another man clinging to him. That man did drown. It was an evil action, of course, but it was the sole means of escape, and better not to brood over these fearful facts.
安娜在获得解放并迅速恢复健康的最初阶段，感到无比幸福，充满了生活的乐趣。想到丈夫的不幸并没有损害她的幸福。一方面，那段记忆太可怕了，难以想象。另一方面，丈夫的不幸给了她太多的幸福，不值得后悔。病后发生的一切的记忆：她与丈夫的和解、关系的破裂、渥伦斯基受伤的消息、他的来访、离婚的准备、离开丈夫的家、与儿子的分离——所有这些似乎对她来说就像一场疯狂的梦，醒来时她和渥伦斯基独自一人在国外。一想到丈夫受到的伤害，她心里就升起了一种厌恶感，就像一个溺水的人摆脱了另一个紧紧抓住他的人时的感觉一样。那人确实淹死了。当然，这是一种邪恶的行为，但这是唯一的逃避手段，最好不要沉思这些可怕的事实。

One consolatory reflection upon her conduct had occurred to her at the first moment of the final rupture, and when now she recalled all the past, she remembered that one reflection. ‘I have inevitably made that man wretched,’ she thought; ‘but I don’t want to profit by his misery. I too am suffering, and shall suffer; I am losing what I prized above everything—I am losing my good name and my son. I have done wrong, and so I don’t want happiness, I don’t want a divorce, and shall suffer from my shame and the separation from my child.’ But, however sincerely Anna had meant to suffer, she was not suffering. Shame there was not. With the tact of which both had such a large share, they had succeeded in avoiding Russian ladies abroad, and so had never placed themselves in a false position, and everywhere they had met people who pretended that they perfectly understood their position, far better indeed than they did themselves. Separation from the son she loved—even that did not cause her anguish in these early days. The baby girl—his child—was so sweet, and had so won Anna’s heart, since she was all that was left her, that Anna rarely thought of her son.
在最终决裂的第一时刻，她对自己的行为产生了一种安慰性的反思，现在当她回忆起过去的一切时，她想起了这一反思。 “我不可避免地让那个男人变得可怜，”她想。 “但我不想从他的痛苦中获利。我也正在受苦，并将受苦；我正在失去我最珍视的东西——我正在失去我的好名声和我的儿子。我做错了，所以我不想幸福，我不想离婚，我会承受我的耻辱和与孩子的分离。”但是，无论安娜多么真诚地想要受苦，她并没有受苦。 。可惜没有。凭借两人都拥有的机智，他们成功地避开了国外的俄罗斯女士，因此从未将自己置于错误的境地，而且他们到处都遇到假装完全了解自己处境的人，而且确实更好比他们自己做的还要多。与她所爱的儿子分离——即便如此，这并没有给她带来早期的痛苦。这个女婴——他的孩子——是如此可爱，赢得了安娜的心，因为她只剩下她了，所以安娜很少想起她的儿子。

The desire for life, waxing stronger with recovered health, was so intense, and the conditions of life were so new and pleasant, that Anna felt unpardonably happy. The more she got to know Vronsky, the more she loved him. She loved him for himself, and for his love for her. Her complete ownership of him was a continual joy to her. His presence was always sweet to her. All the traits of his character, which she learned to know better and better, were unutterably dear to her. His appearance, changed by his civilian dress, was as fascinating to her as though she were some young girl in love. In everything he said, thought, and did, she saw something particularly noble and elevated. Her adoration of him alarmed her indeed; she sought and could not find in him anything not fine. She dared not show him her sense of her own insignificance beside him. It seemed to her that, knowing this, he might sooner cease to love her; and she dreaded nothing now so much as losing his love, though she had no grounds for fearing it. But she could not help being grateful to him for his attitude to her, and showing that she appreciated it. He, who had in her opinion such a marked aptitude for a political career, in which he would have been certain to play a leading part—he had sacrificed his ambition for her sake, and never betrayed the slightest regret. He was more lovingly respectful to her than ever, and the constant care that she should not feel the awkwardness of her position never deserted him for a single instant. He, so manly a man, never opposed her, had indeed, with her, no will of his own, and was anxious, it seemed, for nothing but to anticipate her wishes. And she could not but appreciate this, even though the very intensity of his solicitude for her, the atmosphere of care with which he surrounded her, sometimes weighed upon her.
随着健康的恢复，对生活的渴望变得如此强烈，生活条件如此新鲜和愉快，安娜感到无比的幸福。她越了解渥伦斯基，就越爱他。她爱他，因为他自己，也因为他对她的爱。对他的完全拥有让她感到持续的快乐。他的存在对她来说总是甜蜜的。她越来越了解他性格中的所有特征，对她来说，这是无以言表的珍视。他那一身平民装扮的外貌让她着迷，仿佛她是一个恋爱中的少女。在他所说、所想、所做的一切中，她看到了特别崇高和崇高的东西。她对他的崇拜确实让她感到震惊。她寻找，但在他身上找不到任何不好的地方。她不敢让他知道自己在他身边的渺小。她觉得，知道了这一点，他可能很快就会不再爱她了。现在她最害怕的就是失去他的爱，尽管她没有理由害怕。但她情不自禁地感谢他对她的态度，并表示她对此表示赞赏。在她看来，他在政治生涯中具有如此显着的天赋，他肯定会在其中发挥主导作用——他为了她而牺牲了自己的野心，从未流露出丝毫的遗憾。他对她比以往任何时候都更加充满爱意和尊重，并且始终不渝地关心她不应该感到自己处境的尴尬，他一刻也没有放弃过。他，一个如此有男子气概的男人，从不反对她，事实上，对她来说，他没有自己的意愿，而且似乎只是为了预见她的愿望而着急。 她不能不欣赏这一点，尽管他对她的强烈关心，他围绕着她的关心气氛有时让她感到沉重。

Vronsky, meanwhile, in spite of the complete realization of what he had so long desired, was not perfectly happy. He soon felt that the realization of his desires gave him no more than a grain of sand out of the mountain of happiness he had expected. It showed him the mistake men make in picturing to themselves happiness as the realization of their desires. For a time after joining his life to hers, and putting on civilian dress, he had felt all the delight of freedom in general of which he had known nothing before, and of freedom in his love,—and he was content, but not for long. He was soon aware that there was springing up in his heart a desire for desires—ennui. Without conscious intention he began to clutch at every passing caprice, taking it for a desire and an object. Sixteen hours of the day must be occupied in some way, since they were living abroad in complete freedom, outside the conditions of social life which filled up time in Petersburg. As for the amusements of bachelor existence, which had provided Vronsky with entertainment on previous tours abroad, they could not be thought of, since the sole attempt of the sort had led to a sudden attack of depression in Anna, quite out of proportion with the cause—a late supper with bachelor friends. Relations with the society of the place—foreign and Russian—were equally out of the question owing to the irregularity of their position. The inspection of objects of interest, apart from the fact that everything had been seen already, had not for Vronsky, a Russian and a sensible man, the immense significance Englishmen are able to attach to that pursuit.
与此同时，渥伦斯基尽管完全实现了他长久以来的愿望，但并不完全幸福。很快他就觉得自己的愿望的实现只不过是他所期待的幸福之山中的一粒沙而已。它向他展示了人们在将幸福想象为实现自己的愿望时所犯的错误。在将自己的生活融入到她的生活中，穿上便装后，他有一段时间感受到了他以前一无所知的自由的所有快乐，以及他的爱情中的自由——他很满足，但不满足于长的。他很快就发现，自己的心里涌起了一股欲求的欲望——倦怠。他开始无意识地抓住每一个一闪而过的任性想法，把它当作一种欲望和一个目标。一天中的十六个小时必须以某种方式占据，因为他们完全自由地生活在国外，脱离了彼得堡的社会生活条件。至于单身生活的娱乐，这在以前的国外旅行中为渥伦斯基提供了娱乐，他们无法想到，因为这种唯一的尝试导致安娜的抑郁症突然发作，与她的抑郁症完全不成比例。原因——与单身朋友共进晚餐。由于他们的立场不正常，与当地社会（外国社会和俄罗斯社会）的关系同样不可能。对感兴趣的物体的检查，除了一切都已经被看到的事实之外，对于渥伦斯基这个俄罗斯人和明智的人来说，并没有像英国人那样对这种追求赋予巨大的意义。

And just as the hungry stomach eagerly accepts every object it can get, hoping to find nourishment in it, Vronsky quite unconsciously clutched first at politics, then at new books, and then at pictures.
正如饥饿的胃急切地接受它能得到的每一样东西，希望从中找到营养一样，渥伦斯基也无意识地首先抓住了政治，然后抓住了新书，然后抓住了图片。

As he had from a child a taste for painting, and as, not knowing what to spend his money on, he had begun collecting engravings, he came to a stop at painting, began to take interest in it, and concentrated upon it the unoccupied mass of desires which demanded satisfaction.
由于他从小就喜欢绘画，又因为不知道花什么钱而开始收集版画，所以他在绘画上停下来，开始感兴趣，并专注于空闲的部分。大量需要满足的欲望。

He had a ready appreciation of art, and probably, with a taste for imitating art, he supposed himself to have the real thing essential for an artist, and after hesitating for some time which style of painting to select—religious, historical, realistic, or genre painting—he set to work to paint. He appreciated all kinds, and could have felt inspired by any one of them; but he had no conception of the possibility of knowing nothing at all of any school of painting, and of being inspired directly by what is within the soul, without caring whether what is painted will belong to any recognized school. Since he knew nothing of this, and drew his inspiration, not directly from life, but indirectly from life embodied in art, his inspiration came very quickly and easily, and as quickly and easily came his success in painting something very similar to the sort of painting he was trying to imitate.
他对艺术有很好的鉴赏力，而且很可能有模仿艺术的品味，他认为自己拥有艺术家所必需的真正东西，在犹豫了一段时间后选择哪种绘画风格——宗教的、历史的、现实的、或者风俗画——他开始绘画。他欣赏各种各样的事物，并且可能受到其中任何一种事物的启发。但他不认为有可能对任何绘画流派一无所知，并直接受到灵魂内部的启发，而不关心所画的东西是否属于任何公认的流派。由于他对此一无所知，并且不是直接从生活中汲取灵感，而是间接地从艺术所体现的生活中汲取灵感，所以他的灵感来得非常迅速和容易，而且他也很快和容易地成功地画出了与这种非常相似的东西。他试图模仿的画作。

More than any other style he liked the French—graceful and effective—and in that style he began to paint Anna’s portrait in Italian costume, and the portrait seemed to him, and to everyone who saw it, extremely successful.
与其他任何风格相比，他更喜欢法国风格——优雅而有效——他开始用这种风格画穿着意大利服装的安娜肖像，这幅肖像在他和每个看到它的人看来都非常成功。

Chapter 9
第9章

The old neglected palazzo, with its lofty carved ceilings and frescoes on the walls, with its floors of mosaic, with its heavy yellow stuff curtains on the windows, with its vases on pedestals, and its open fireplaces, its carved doors and gloomy reception rooms, hung with pictures—this palazzo did much, by its very appearance after they had moved into it, to confirm in Vronsky the agreeable illusion that he was not so much a Russian country gentleman, a retired army officer, as an enlightened amateur and patron of the arts, himself a modest artist who had renounced the world, his connections, and his ambition for the sake of the woman he loved.
这座被忽视的古老宫殿，有高高的雕花天花板和墙上的壁画，有马赛克地板，窗户上挂着厚重的黄色窗帘，底座上有花瓶，还有开放式壁炉，雕花门和阴暗的接待室，挂满了画——这座宫殿在他们搬进去后，从它的外观来看，在很大程度上证实了渥伦斯基的一种令人愉快的幻想，即他与其说是一位俄罗斯乡村绅士、一位退役军官，不如说是一位开明的业余爱好者和赞助人他本人是一位谦虚的艺术家，为了他所爱的女人，他放弃了世界、他的人际关系和他的野心。

The pose chosen by Vronsky with their removal into the palazzo was completely successful, and having, through Golenishtchev, made acquaintance with a few interesting people, for a time he was satisfied. He painted studies from nature under the guidance of an Italian professor of painting, and studied mediaeval Italian life. Mediaeval Italian life so fascinated Vronsky that he even wore a hat and flung a cloak over his shoulder in the mediaeval style, which, indeed, was extremely becoming to him.
渥伦斯基选择的进入宫殿的姿势非常成功，并且通过戈列尼切夫结识了一些有趣的人，他一度感到满意。他在一位意大利绘画教授的指导下进行了对自然的研究，并研究了中世纪的意大利生活。中世纪的意大利生活让渥伦斯基着迷，他甚至戴着中世纪风格的帽子，把斗篷披在肩上，这确实非常适合他。

‘Here we live, and know nothing of what’s going on,’ Vronsky said to Golenishtchev as he came to see him one morning. ‘Have you seen Mihailov’s picture?’ he said, handing him a Russian gazette he had received that morning, and pointing to an article on a Russian artist, living in the very same town, and just finishing a picture which had long been talked about, and had been bought beforehand. The article reproached the government and the academy for letting so remarkable an artist be left without encouragement and support.
“我们住在这里，对发生的事情一无所知，”一天早上，渥伦斯基来看戈列尼切夫时对他说。 “你看过米哈伊洛夫的画吗？”他一边说，一边递给他早上收到的一份俄罗斯公报，并指着一篇关于一位俄罗斯艺术家的文章，他住在同一个城镇，刚刚完成了一幅人们谈论已久的画作。 ，并且是提前购买的。文章指责政府和学院让如此杰出的艺术家得不到鼓励和支持。

‘I’ve seen it,’ answered Golenishtchev. ‘Of course, he’s not without talent, but it’s all in a wrong direction. It’s all the Ivanov-Strauss-Renan attitude to Christ and to religious painting.’
“我已经看到了，”戈列尼切夫回答道。 ‘当然，他并不是没有天赋，但一切都朝着错误的方向发展。这都是伊万诺夫-施特劳斯-雷南对基督和宗教绘画的态度。

‘What is the subject of the picture?’ asked Anna.
“这幅画的主题是什么？”安娜问。

‘Christ before Pilate. Christ is represented as a Jew with all the realism of the new school.’
‘基督在彼拉多面前。基督被描绘成一个犹太人，具有新学派的所有现实主义色彩。

And the question of the subject of the picture having brought him to one of his favorite theories, Golenishtchev launched forth into a disquisition on it.
这幅画的主题问题让他想到了他最喜欢的理论之一，戈列尼切夫对此展开了一篇论文。

‘I can’t understand how they can fall into such a gross mistake. Christ always has His definite embodiment in the art of the great masters. And therefore, if they want to depict, not God, but a revolutionist or a sage, let them take from history a Socrates, a Franklin, a Charlotte Corday, but not Christ. They take the very figure which cannot be taken for their art, and then...’
“我不明白他们怎么会犯下如此严重的错误。基督在伟大大师的艺术中总是有他明确的体现。因此，如果他们想描绘的不是上帝，而是革命者或圣人，那就让他们从历史中选取苏格拉底、富兰克林、夏洛特·科黛，而不是基督。他们采用了那些不能用于他们的艺术的人物，然后……”

‘And is it true that this Mihailov is in such poverty?’ asked Vronsky, thinking that, as a Russian Maecenas, it was his duty to assist the artist regardless of whether the picture were good or bad.
“这个米哈伊洛夫真的这么穷吗？”渥伦斯基问道，他认为，作为一个俄罗斯梅塞纳斯，无论画作好坏，帮助艺术家都是他的责任。

‘I should say not. He’s a remarkable portrait-painter. Have you ever seen his portrait of Madame Vassiltchikova? But I believe he doesn’t care about painting any more portraits, and so very likely he is in want. I maintain that...’
‘我应该说不是。他是一位杰出的肖像画家。你见过他为瓦西尔奇科娃夫人创作的肖像吗？但我相信他不再关心画肖像了，所以他很可能是缺的。我坚持认为……”

‘Couldn’t we ask him to paint a portrait of Anna Arkadyevna?’ said Vronsky.
“我们不能请他画一幅安娜·阿尔卡季耶夫娜的肖像吗？”渥伦斯基说。

‘Why mine?’ said Anna. ‘After yours I don’t want another portrait. Better have one of Annie’ (so she called her baby girl). ‘Here she is,’ she added, looking out of the window at the handsome Italian nurse, who was carrying the child out into the garden, and immediately glancing unnoticed at Vronsky. The handsome nurse, from whom Vronsky was painting a head for his picture, was the one hidden grief in Anna’s life. He painted with her as his model, admired her beauty and mediaevalism, and Anna dared not confess to herself that she was afraid of becoming jealous of this nurse, and was for that reason particularly gracious and condescending both to her and her little son. Vronsky, too, glanced out of the window and into Anna’s eyes, and, turning at once to Golenishtchev, he said:
“为什么是我的？”安娜说。 “在你的肖像之后，我不再想要另一幅肖像。最好有一个“安妮”（她这样称呼她的宝贝女儿）。 “她在这里，”她补充道，看着窗外英俊的意大利护士，她正把孩子抱到花园里，然后立即不经意地瞥了渥伦斯基一眼。渥伦斯基正在为自己的画画头像的那位英俊的护士，是安娜生活中隐藏的悲伤之一。他以她为模特作画，欣赏她的美丽和中世纪风格，而安娜不敢向自己承认，她害怕嫉妒这位护士，因此对她和她的小儿子都特别仁慈和居高临下。渥伦斯基也朝窗外看了一眼，看着安娜的眼睛，然后立即转向戈列尼切夫，说道：

‘Do you know this Mihailov?’
“你认识这个米哈伊洛夫吗？”

‘I have met him. But he’s a queer fish, and quite without breeding. You know, one of those uncouth new people one’s so often coming across nowadays, one of those free-thinkers you know, who are reared d’emblee in theories of atheism, scepticism, and materialism. In former days,’ said Golenishtchev, not observing, or not willing to observe, that both Anna and Vronsky wanted to speak, ‘in former days the free-thinker was a man who had been brought up in ideas of religion, law, and morality, and only through conflict and struggle came to free-thought; but now there has sprung up a new type of born free-thinkers who grow up without even having heard of principles of morality or of religion, of the existence of authorities, who grow up directly in ideas of negation in everything, that is to say, savages. Well, he’s of that class. He’s the son, it appears, of some Moscow butler, and has never had any sort of bringing-up. When he got into the academy and made his reputation he tried, as he’s no fool, to educate himself. And he turned to what seemed to him the very source of culture—the magazines. In old times, you see, a man who wanted to educate himself—a Frenchman, for instance—would have set to work to study all the classics and theologians and tragedians and historiaris and philosophers, and, you know, all the intellectual work that came in his way. But in our day he goes straight for the literature of negation, very quickly assimilates all the extracts of the science of negation, and he’s ready. And that’s not all—twenty years ago he would have found in that literature traces of conflict with authorities, with the creeds of the ages; he would have perceived from this conflict that there was something else; but now he comes at once upon a literature in which the old creeds do not even furnish matter for discussion, but it is stated baldly that there is nothing else—evolution, natural selection, struggle for existence—and that’s all. In my article I’ve...’
‘我见过他。但他是一条奇怪的鱼，而且完全没有繁殖。你知道，你现在经常遇到的那些粗鲁的新人之一，你认识的那些自由思想家之一，他们是在无神论、怀疑论和唯物主义理论中长大的。过去，”戈列尼什切夫说，没有注意到，或者说不愿意注意到安娜和渥伦斯基都想说话，“过去，自由思想家是在宗教、法律和宗教观念中长大的人。”道德，只有通过冲突和斗争才能获得自由思想；但现在出现了一种新型的天生的自由思想家，他们在成长过程中甚至没有听说过道德原则或宗教原则，也没有听说过权威的存在，他们直接在否定一切的观念中长大，也就是说，野蛮人。嗯，他属于那个阶层。他似乎是莫斯科某位管家的儿子，从未受过任何教育。当他进入学院并赢得声誉后，他尝试自学，因为他并不傻。他转向了他认为文化的源泉——杂志。你看，在过去，一个想要自学的人——例如一个法国人——会开始学习所有的经典著作、神学家、悲剧家、历史学家和哲学家，以及你知道的所有智力著作。挡住了他的路。但在我们这个时代，他直接走向否定的文献，很快就吸收了否定科学的所有精华，他已经准备好了。 这还不是全部——二十年前，他会在那些文学作品中发现与权威、与时代信条冲突的痕迹；他会从这场冲突中察觉到还有别的事情。但现在他立刻发现了一种文学，其中古老的信条甚至没有提供讨论的内容，但它直截了当地说没有别的东西——进化、自然选择、生存斗争——仅此而已。在我的文章中我...’

‘I tell you what,’ said Anna, who had for a long while been exchanging wary glances with Vronsky, and knew that he was not in the least interested in the education of this artist, but was simply absorbed by the idea of assisting him, and ordering a portrait of him; ‘I tell you what,’ she said, resolutely interrupting Golenishtchev, who was still talking away, ‘let’s go and see him!’
“我告诉你，”安娜说，她很长一段时间都在与渥伦斯基交换警惕的眼神，她知道他对这位艺术家的教育一点也不感兴趣，而只是一心想帮助他。 ，并订购了他的肖像； “我告诉你，”她坚决打断仍在喋喋不休的戈列尼切夫，“我们去看看他吧！”

Golenishtchev recovered his self-possession and readily agreed. But as the artist lived in a remote suburb, it was decided to take the carriage.
戈列尼切夫恢复了冷静，爽快地答应了。但由于艺术家住在偏远郊区，所以决定乘坐马车。

An hour later Anna, with Golenishtchev by her side and Vronsky on the front seat of the carriage, facing them, drove up to a new ugly house in the remote suburb. On learning from the porter’s wife, who came out to them, that Mihailov saw visitors at his studio, but that at that moment he was in his lodging only a couple of steps off, they sent her to him with their cards, asking permission to see his picture.
一个小时后，安娜和戈列尼切夫在她身边，渥伦斯基坐在马车前座，面朝他们，驶向偏远郊区的一栋丑陋的新房子。门房的妻子向他们走来，从她那里得知米哈伊洛夫在他的工作室看到了访客，但当时他正在他的住所里，离他只有几步之遥，他们把她带着卡片送给他，请求允许看他的照片。

Chapter 10
第10章

The artist Mihailov was, as always, at work when the cards of Count Vronsky and Golenishtchev were brought to him. In the morning he had been working in his studio at his big picture. On getting home he flew into a rage with his wife for not having managed to put off the landlady, who had been asking for money.
当渥伦斯基伯爵和戈列尼切夫伯爵的卡片被送到艺术家米哈伊洛夫面前时，他一如既往地在工作。早上他一直在工作室里创作他的大片。回到家后，他对妻子大发雷霆，因为他没能说服一直要钱的女房东。

‘I’ve said it to you twenty times, don’t enter into details. You’re fool enough at all times, and when you start explaining things in Italian you’re a fool three times as foolish,’ he said after a long dispute.
“我已经跟你说了二十遍了，不用细说。”你在任何时候都够傻的了，当你开始用意大利语解释事情时，你就变得三倍傻了。”在长时间的争论后，他说道。

‘Don’t let it run so long; it’s not my fault. If I had the money...’
‘别让它跑这么久；这不是我的错。如果我有钱的话……”

‘Leave me in peace, for God’s sake!’ Mihailov shrieked, with tears in his voice, and, stopping his ears, he went off into his working room, the other side of a partition wall, and closed the door after him. ‘Idiotic woman!’ he said to himself, sat down to the table, and, opening a portfolio, he set to work at once with peculiar fervor at a sketch he had begun.
“看在上帝份上，让我安静点吧！”米哈伊洛夫尖叫道，声音里含着泪水，然后他捂住耳朵，走进隔墙另一侧的工作室，关上了门。 “白痴女人！”他自言自语，坐到桌边，打开一个文件夹，立即开始以奇特的热情开始画他已经开始的素描。

Never did he work with such fervor and success as when things went ill with him, and especially when he quarreled with his wife. ‘Oh! damn them all!’ he thought as he went on working. He was making a sketch for the figure of a man in a violent rage. A sketch had been made before, but he was dissatisfied with it. ‘No, that one was better...where is it?’ He went back to his wife, and scowling, and not looking at her, asked his eldest little girl, where was that piece of paper he had given them? The paper with the discarded sketch on it was found, but it was dirty, and spotted with candle-grease. Still, he took the sketch, laid it on his table, and, moving a little away, screwing up his eyes, he fell to gazing at it. All at once he smiled and gesticulated gleefully.
当他遇到困难时，特别是当他与妻子争吵时，他从来没有像现在这样充满热情和成功地工作。 '哦！都该死！”他边干活边想。他正在画一个愤怒的男人的素描。之前画过一张草图，但他不满意。 “不，那个更好……它在哪里？”他回到妻子身边，皱起眉头，没有看她，问他的大女儿，他给他们的那张纸在哪里？上面有废弃草图的纸被发现了，但它很脏，并且沾满了蜡烛油污。尽管如此，他还是拿起了草图，把它放在桌子上，然后稍微移开一点，眯起眼睛，开始凝视它。突然，他微笑着，高兴地打着手势。

‘That’s it! that’s it!’ he said, and, at once picking up the pencil, he began rapidly drawing. The spot of tallow had given the man a new pose.
'就是这样！就是这样！”他说，然后立即拿起铅笔，开始快速画画。那块牛脂给这个人带来了新的姿势。

He had sketched this new pose, when all at once he recalled the face of a shopkeeper of whom he had bought cigars, a vigorous face with a prominent chin, and he sketched this very face, this chin on to the figure of the man. He laughed aloud with delight. The figure from a lifeless imagined thing had become living, and such that it could never be changed. That figure lived, and was clearly and unmistakably defined. The sketch might be corrected in accordance with the requirements of the figure, the legs, indeed, could and must be put differently, and the position of the left hand must be quite altered; the hair too might be thrown back. But in making these corrections he was not altering the figure but simply getting rid of what concealed the figure. He was, as it were, stripping off the wrappings which hindered it from being distinctly seen. Each new feature only brought out the whole figure in all its force and vigor, as it had suddenly come to him from the spot of tallow. He was carefully finishing the figure when the cards were brought him.
他画了这个新姿势，突然想起他买过雪茄的店主的脸，一张充满活力的脸，下巴突出，他画了这张脸，这个下巴画在那个人的身上。他高兴地放声大笑。原本没有生命的想象物的形象变得有生命，而且永远无法改变。这个人物是活生生的，并且被明确无误地定义了。草图可能会根据人物的要求进行修正，腿确实可以而且必须以不同的方式放置，左手的位置也必须发生很大的改变；头发也可能被向后甩。但在进行这些修正时，他并没有改变数字，而只是去掉了隐藏数字的东西。可以说，他正在剥掉那些妨碍人们清楚地看到它的包裹物。每一个新的特征都只是将整个人物的力量和活力展现出来，就像它突然从牛脂那里来到他身边一样。当卡片递给他时，他正在仔细地完成这个人物。

‘Coming, coming!’
“来了，来了！”

He went in to his wife.
他走进他的妻子身边。

‘Come, Sasha, don’t be cross!’ he said, smiling timidly and affectionately at her. ‘You were to blame. I was to blame. I’ll make it all right.’ And having made peace with his wife he put on an olive-green overcoat with a velvet collar and a hat, and went towards his studio. The successful figure he had already forgotten. Now he was delighted and excited at the visit of these people of consequence, Russians, who had come in their carriage.
“来吧，萨莎，别生气！”他一边说，一边胆怯而亲切地对她微笑。 ‘你应该受到责备。我应该受到责备。我会解决的。”与妻子和解后，他穿上一件橄榄绿天鹅绒领大衣，戴上帽子，走向他的工作室。那个成功的人物他已经忘记了。现在，他对乘坐马车而来的这些重要的俄罗斯人的到来感到高兴和兴奋。

Of his picture, the one that stood now on his easel, he had at the bottom of his heart one conviction—that no one had ever painted a picture like it. He did not believe that his picture was better than all the pictures of Raphael, but he knew that what he tried to convey in that picture, no one ever had conveyed. This he knew positively, and had known a long while, ever since he had begun to paint it. But other people’s criticisms, whatever they might be, had yet immense consequence in his eyes, and they agitated him to the depths of his soul. Any remark, the most insignificant, that showed that the critic saw even the tiniest part of what he saw in the picture, agitated him to the depths of his soul. He always attributed to his critics a more profound comprehension than he had himself, and always expected from them something he did not himself see in the picture. And often in their criticisms he fancied that he had found this.
对于现在放在画架上的那幅画，他心底里有一个信念——从来没有人画过这样的画。他不相信他的画比拉斐尔的所有画都好，但他知道他试图在那幅画中传达的东西，从来没有人传达过。自从他开始画这幅画以来，他确实知道这一点，而且已经知道很长时间了。但其他人的批评，不管是什么，在他眼里却产生了巨大的影响，让他内心深处激动不已。任何一句话，即使是最微不足道的，只要表明评论家看到了他在画中看到的哪怕是最微小的部分，都会让他的灵魂深处激动不已。他总是认为他的批评者比他自己有更深刻的理解，并且总是期望从他们那里得到一些他自己在画中没有看到的东西。他常常在他们的批评中幻想自己已经找到了这一点。

He walked rapidly to the door of his studio, and in spite of his excitement he was struck by the soft light on Anna’s figure as she stood in the shade of the entrance listening to Golenishtchev, who was eagerly telling her something, while she evidently wanted to look round at the artist. He was himself unconscious how, as he approached them, he seized on this impression and absorbed it, as he had the chin of the shopkeeper who had sold him the cigars, and put it away somewhere to be brought out when he wanted it. The visitors, not agreeably impressed beforehand by Golenishtchev’s account of the artist, were still less so by his personal appearance. Thick-set and of middle height, with nimble movements, with his brown hat, olive-green coat and narrow trousers—though wide trousers had been a long while in fashion,—most of all, with the ordinariness of his broad face, and the combined expression of timidity and anxiety to keep up his dignity, Mihailov made an unpleasant impression.
他快步走到工作室门口，尽管他很兴奋，但他还是被安娜身上柔和的光线所震撼，因为她站在入口的阴影里，听戈列尼切夫说话，戈列尼切夫急切地告诉她一些事情，而她显然想要环视艺术家。他自己也没有意识到，当他走近他们时，他抓住了这种印象并吸收了它，因为他拥有卖给他雪茄的店主的下巴，并将其存放在某个地方，以便在他需要时拿出来。参观者事先对戈列尼切夫对这位艺术家的描述并不满意，对他的个人外表更不满意。身材粗壮，中等身材，动作敏捷，棕色帽子，橄榄绿外套，窄裤——虽然宽裤已经流行很长时间了——最重要的是，他那张平凡的宽脸，米哈伊洛夫表现出胆怯和为了维护尊严而焦虑的表情，给人留下了不愉快的印象。

‘Please step in,’ he said, trying to look indifferent, and going into the passage he took a key out of his pocket and opened the door.
“请进。”他努力装出一副漠不关心的样子，走进通道，从口袋里掏出一把钥匙，打开了门。

Chapter 11
第11章

On entering the studio, Mihailov once more scanned his visitors and noted down in his imagination Vronsky’s expression too, and especially his jaws. Although his artistic sense was unceasingly at work collecting materials, although he felt a continually increasing excitement as the moment of criticizing his work drew nearer, he rapidly and subtly formed, from imperceptible signs, a mental image of these three persons.
进入工作室后，米哈伊洛夫再次扫视了他的访客，并在想象中记下了渥伦斯基的表情，尤其是他的下巴。尽管他的艺术感不断地在收集素材，尽管随着批评作品的时刻越来越近，他的兴奋感也不断增强，但他却迅速而微妙地从难以察觉的迹象中，在脑海中形成了这三个人的形象。

That fellow (Golenishtchev) was a Russian living here. Mihailov did not remember his surname nor where he had met him, nor what he had said to him. He only remembered his face as he remembered all the faces he had ever seen; but he remembered, too, that it was one of the faces laid by in his memory in the immense class of the falsely consequential and poor in expression. The abundant hair and very open forehead gave an appearance of consequence to the face, which had only one expression—a petty, childish, peevish expression, concentrated just above the bridge of the narrow nose. Vronsky and Madame Karenina must be, Mihailov supposed, distinguished and wealthy Russians, knowing nothing about art, like all those wealthy Russians, but posing as amateurs and connoisseurs. ‘Most likely they’ve already looked at all the antiques, and now they’re making the round of the studios of the new people, the German humbug, and the cracked Pre-Raphaelite English fellow, and have only come to me to make the point of view complete,’ he thought. He was well acquainted with the way dilettanti have (the cleverer they were the worse he found them) of looking at the works of contemporary artists with the sole object of being in a position to say that art is a thing of the past, and that the more one sees of the new men the more one sees how inimitable the works of the great old masters have remained. He expected all this; he saw it all in their faces, he saw it in the careless indifference with which they talked among themselves, stared at the lay figures and busts, and walked about in leisurely fashion, waiting for him to uncover his picture. But in spite of this, while he was turning over his studies, pulling up the blinds and taking off the sheet, he was in intense excitement, especially as, in spite of his conviction that all distinguished and wealthy Russians were certain to be beasts and fools, he liked Vronsky, and still more Anna.
那家伙（Golenishtchev）是住在这里的俄罗斯人。米哈伊洛夫不记得他的姓氏，也不记得他在哪里见过他，也不记得他对他说了些什么。他只记得自己的脸，就像他记得所有他见过的面孔一样；他只记得自己的脸。但他也记得，那是他记忆中的一张面孔，属于一大批错误重要、表情贫乏的面孔。浓密的头发和敞开的前额给这张脸带来了一种重要的感觉，这张脸只有一种表情——一种小气、孩子气、脾气暴躁的表情，集中在狭窄的鼻梁上方。米哈伊洛夫猜想，渥伦斯基和卡列尼娜夫人肯定是杰出而富有的俄罗斯人，他们像所有那些富有的俄罗斯人一样，对艺术一无所知，但却冒充业余爱好者和鉴赏家。 “很可能他们已经看过所有的古董了，现在他们正在新人、德国骗子和破解的拉斐尔前派英国人的工作室里转悠，来找我只是为了制作“这个观点已经完成了，”他想。他非常熟悉业余爱好者（他们越聪明，他发现他们越糟糕）看待当代艺术家作品的方式，其唯一目的是能够说艺术已经成为过去，并且人们越了解新人，就越能看到伟大的古代大师的作品仍然是多么难以模仿。这一切他都预料到了；他从他们的脸上看到了这一切，从他们彼此交谈时的漫不经心的冷漠中看到了这一点，他们凝视着平庸的人物和半身像，悠闲地走来走去，等待着他揭开他的画。 但尽管如此，当他翻过身子，拉上百叶窗，揭下床单时，他还是感到非常兴奋，尤其是尽管他坚信所有杰出而富有的俄罗斯人都一定是野兽，傻瓜们，他喜欢渥伦斯基，更喜欢安娜。

‘Here, if you please,’ he said, moving on one side with his nimble gait and pointing to his picture, ‘it’s the exhortation to Pilate. Matthew, chapter xxvii,’ he said, feeling his lips were beginning to tremble with emotion. He moved away and stood behind them.
“如果您愿意的话，”他迈着敏捷的步态走到一侧，指着自己的照片，“这是对彼拉多的劝告。马太福音第二十七章，”他说道，感觉自己的嘴唇开始因激动而颤抖。他走开，站在他们身后。

For the few seconds during which the visitors were gazing at the picture in silence Mihailov too gazed at it with the indifferent eye of an outsider. For those few seconds he was sure in anticipation that a higher, juster criticism would be uttered by them, by those very visitors whom he had been so despising a moment before. He forgot all he had thought about his picture before during the three years he had been painting it; he forgot all its qualities which had been absolutely certain to him—he saw the picture with their indifferent, new, outside eyes, and saw nothing good in it. He saw in the foreground Pilate’s irritated face and the serene face of Christ, and in the background the figures of Pilate’s retinue and the face of John watching what was happening. Every face that, with such agony, such blunders and corrections had grown up within him with its special character, every face that had given him such torments and such raptures, and all these faces so many times transposed for the sake of the harmony of the whole, all the shades of color and tones that he had attained with such labor—all of this together seemed to him now, looking at it with their eyes, the merest vulgarity, something that had been done a thousand times over. The face dearest to him, the face of Christ, the center of the picture, which had given him such ecstasy as it unfolded itself to him, was utterly lost to him when he glanced at the picture with their eyes. He saw a well-painted (no, not even that—he distinctly saw now a mass of defects) repetition of those endless Christs of Titian, Raphael, Rubens, and the same soldiers and Pilate. It was all common, poor, and stale, and positively badly painted—weak and unequal. They would be justified in repeating hypocritically civil speeches in the presence of the painter, and pitying him and laughing at him when they were alone again.
在参观者静静地凝视这幅画的几秒钟里，米哈伊洛夫也以局外人的冷漠目光凝视着它。在那几秒钟里，他确信他们会提出更高、更公正的批评，正是那些他刚才还鄙视的来访者。他忘记了在他画这幅画的三年里他对这幅画的所有想法；他忘记了它对他来说绝对确定的所有品质——他用他们冷漠的、新的、外在的眼光来看待这幅画，并没有发现其中有什么好处。他在前景中看到了彼拉多恼怒的脸和基督平静的脸，在背景中看到了彼拉多的随从和约翰的脸，他正在观看正在发生的事情。每一张面孔，在如此痛苦、如此错误和纠正中，都在他内心成长起来，并具有其特殊的性格，每一张面孔都给了他如此折磨和如此狂喜，所有这些面孔为了世界的和谐而多次变换。整个，他通过如此辛苦的努力获得的所有颜色和色调——所有这一切现在在他看来，用他们的眼睛来看，是最粗俗的，已经做过上千次的事情了。他最亲爱的脸，基督的脸，这幅画的中心，当它展现在他面前时曾给他带来如此狂喜，当他用他们的眼睛扫视这幅画时，他完全迷失了。他看到了提香、拉斐尔、鲁本斯以及同样的士兵和彼拉多的那些无尽的基督的精心描绘（不，甚至不是这样——他现在清楚地看到了一大堆缺陷）。一切都是普通的、简陋的、陈旧的，而且画得非常糟糕——软弱和不平等。 他们有理由在画家面前重复虚伪的礼貌演讲，而当他们再次独处时，他们会同情他并嘲笑他。

The silence (though it lasted no more than a minute) became too intolerable to him. To break it, and to show he was not agitated, he made an effort and addressed Golenishtchev.
这种沉默（虽然只持续了不到一分钟）让他难以忍受。为了打破这种局面，并表明他并不激动，他努力向戈列尼切夫讲话。

‘I think I’ve had the pleasure of meeting you,’ he said, looking uneasily first at Anna, then at Vronsky, in fear of losing any shade of their expression.
“我想我很高兴见到你，”他说，先是不安地看看安娜，然后看看渥伦斯基，生怕失去他们表情的任何阴影。

‘To be sure! We met at Rossi’s, do you remember, at that soiree when that Italian lady recited—the new Rachel?’ Golenishtchev answered easily, removing his eyes without the slightest regret from the picture and turning to the artist.
'为了确定！我们是在罗西家见面的，你还记得吗，在那场晚会上，那位意大利女士朗诵了《新的雷切尔》？”戈列尼什切夫轻松地回答道，他的目光毫无遗憾地从画面上移开，转向艺术家。

Noticing, however, that Mihailov was expecting a criticism of the picture, he said:
然而，注意到米哈伊洛夫预计这张照片会受到批评，他说：

‘Your picture has got on a great deal since I saw it last time; and what strikes me particularly now, as it did then, is the figure of Pilate. One so knows the man: a good-natured, capital fellow, but an official through and through, who does not know what it is he’s doing. But I fancy...’
“自从我上次看到你的照片以来，它已经引起了很大的关注；现在特别让我印象深刻的，就像当时一样，是彼拉多的形象。人们对这个人是这样认识的：一个心地善良、资本充足的家伙，但却是一个彻头彻尾的官员，他不知道自己在做什么。但我想……”

All Mihailov’s mobile face beamed at once; his eyes sparkled. He tried to say something, but he could not speak for excitement, and pretended to be coughing. Low as was his opinion of Golenishtchev’s capacity for understanding art, trifling as was the true remark upon the fidelity of the expression of Pilate as an official, and offensive as might have seemed the utterance of so unimportant an observation while nothing was said of more serious points, Mihailov was in an ecstasy of delight at this observation. He had himself thought about Pilate’s figure just what Golenishtchev said. The fact that this reflection was but one of millions of reflections, which as Mihailov knew for certain would be true, did not diminish for him the significance of Golenishtchev’s remark. His heart warmed to Golenishtchev for this remark, and from a state of depression he suddenly passed to ecstasy. At once the whole of his picture lived before him in all the indescribable complexity of everything living. Mihailov again tried to say that that was how he understood Pilate, but his lips quivered intractably, and he could not pronounce the words. Vronsky and Anna too said something in that subdued voice in which, partly to avoid hurting the artist’s feelings and partly to avoid saying out loud something silly—so easily said when talking of art—people usually speak at exhibitions of pictures. Mihailov fancied that the picture had made an impression on them too. He went up to them.
米哈伊洛夫那张灵活的脸上立刻露出笑容。他的眼睛闪闪发光。他想说什么，但激动得说不出话来，只好假装咳嗽。他对戈列尼切夫理解艺术的能力的评价很低，对彼拉多作为一名官员的表达的忠诚度的真实评价也微不足道，而且在没有提及更严肃的事情的情况下，说出如此不重要的观察结果可能看起来令人反感。米哈伊洛夫看到这一发现欣喜若狂。他自己也按照戈列尼切夫所说的那样思考了彼拉多的身材。事实上，这一反思只是数以百万计的反思之一，米哈伊洛夫确信这将是真实的，但这并没有削弱戈列尼切夫言论的重要性。戈列尼切夫的这句话让他心里一暖，从沮丧的状态一下子变成了狂喜。他的整个画面立刻就呈现在他面前，一切生物的复杂性难以形容。米哈伊洛夫再次试图说这就是他对彼拉多的理解，但他的嘴唇顽固地颤抖着，他无法发音。渥伦斯基和安娜也用那种柔和的声音说了些什么，部分是为了避免伤害艺术家的感情，部分是为了避免大声说出一些愚蠢的事情——在谈论艺术时很容易说出来——人们通常在图片展览上说话。米哈伊洛夫认为这张照片也给他们留下了深刻的印象。他走向他们。

‘How marvelous Christ’s expression is!’ said Anna. Of all she saw she liked that expression most of all, and she felt that it was the center of the picture, and so praise of it would be pleasant to the artist. ‘One can see that He is pitying Pilate.’
“基督的表情多么奇妙啊！”安娜说。在她所看到的一切之中，她最喜欢那个表情，她觉得它是画面的中心，所以对它的赞扬会让艺术家感到高兴。 “可见他是在怜悯彼拉多。”

This again was one of the million true reflections that could be found in his picture and in the figure of Christ. She said that He was pitying Pilate. In Christ’s expression there ought to be indeed an expression of pity, since there is an expression of love, of heavenly peace, of readiness for death, and a sense of the vanity of words. Of course there is the expression of an official in Pilate and of pity in Christ, seeing that one is the incarnation of the fleshly and the other of the spiritual life. All this and much more flashed into Mihailov’s thoughts.
这又是在他的照片和基督的形象中可以找到的数百万个真实反映之一。她说耶稣可怜彼拉多。在基督的表达中，确实应该有怜悯的表达，因为有爱的表达，天上的平安，准备死亡的表达，以及言语虚空的感觉。当然，彼拉多有官员的表现，基督有怜悯的表现，因为一个是肉体的化身，另一个是属灵生命的化身。所有这些以及更多的事情都闪现在米哈伊洛夫的脑海中。

‘Yes, and how that figure is done—what atmosphere! One can walk round it,’ said Golenishtchev, unmistakably betraying by this remark that he did not approve of the meaning and idea of the figure.
‘是的，那个人物是怎么做的——多么有气氛啊！人们可以绕着它走一圈，”戈列尼什切夫说，这句话明确地暴露了他不赞成这个人物的含义和想法。

‘Yes, there’s a wonderful mastery!’ said Vronsky. ‘How those figures in the background stand out! There you have technique,’ he said, addressing Golenishtchev, alluding to a conversation between them about Vronsky’s despair of attaining this technique.
“是的，这是一种美妙的掌握！”渥伦斯基说。 ‘背景中的那些人物多么引人注目啊！这就是技术，”他对戈列尼切夫说道，暗指他们之间关于渥伦斯基对获得这项技术感到绝望的谈话。

‘Yes, yes, marvelous!’ Golenishtchev and Anna assented. In spite of the excited condition in which he was, the sentence about technique had sent a pang to Mihailov’s heart, and looking angrily at Vronsky he suddenly scowled. He had often heard this word technique, and was utterly unable to understand what was understood by it. He knew that by this term was understood a mechanical facility for painting or drawing, entirely apart from its subject. He had noticed often that even in actual praise technique was opposed to essential quality, as though one could paint well something that was bad. He knew that a great deal of attention and care was necessary in taking off the coverings, to avoid injuring the creation itself, and to take off all the coverings; but there was no art of painting—no technique of any sort—about it. If to a little child or to his cook were revealed what he saw, it or she would have been able to peel the wrappings off what was seen. And the most experienced and adroit painter could not by mere mechanical facility paint anything if the lines of the subject were not revealed to him first. Besides, he saw that if it came to talking about technique, it was impossible to praise him for it. In all he had painted and repainted he saw faults that hurt his eyes, coming from want of care in taking off the wrappings—faults he could not correct now without spoiling the whole. And in almost all the figures and faces he saw, too, remnants of the wrappings not perfectly removed that spoiled the picture.
“是的，是的，太棒了！”戈列尼切夫和安娜表示同意。尽管他的心情很激动，但关于技术的这句话却让米哈伊洛夫心里一阵剧痛，他愤怒地看着渥伦斯基，突然皱起了眉头。他经常听到术这个词，完全无法理解其中的含义。他知道这个术语被理解为绘画或绘图的机械设施，完全脱离其主题。他经常注意到，即使在实际的赞美中，技巧也与基本品质相反，就好像一个人可以把不好的东西画好一样。他知道在取下覆盖物时需要非常注意和小心，以避免伤害造物本身，并取下所有覆盖物；但它并没有绘画艺术——没有任何形式的技巧。如果向一个小孩子或他的厨师透露他所看到的东西，他或她将能够剥掉所看到的东西的包装纸。如果没有先向他揭示主题的线条，即使是最有经验和最熟练的画家也无法仅靠机械设施来绘制任何东西。况且他也看到，如果说到技术的话，那是不可能夸奖他的。在他画了又重新画的所有画中，他看到了一些刺痛他眼睛的错误，这些错误是由于在撕下包装纸时不小心造成的——他现在无法在不破坏整体的情况下纠正这些错误。在他看到的几乎所有人物和面孔中，也有未完全去除的包装残留物，破坏了这幅画。

‘One thing might be said, if you will allow me to make the remark...’ observed Golenishtchev.
“如果你允许我说的话，可以说一件事……”戈列尼什切夫观察道。

‘Oh, I shall be delighted, I beg you,’ said Mihailov with a forced smile.
“噢，我会很高兴的，求求你了。”米哈伊洛夫苦笑着说道。

‘That is, that you make Him the man-god, and not the God-man. But I know that was what you meant to do.’
‘也就是说，你把他当作人神，而不是神人。但我知道这就是你的意思。

‘I cannot paint a Christ that is not in my heart,’ said Mihailov gloomily.
“我无法画出一个不在我心里的基督，”米哈伊洛夫阴沉地说。

‘Yes; but in that case, if you will allow me to say what I think.... Your picture is so fine that my observation cannot detract from it, and, besides, it is only my personal opinion. With you it is different. Your very motive is different. But let us take Ivanov. I imagine that if Christ is brought down to the level of an historical character, it would have been better for Ivanov to select some other historical subject, fresh, untouched.’
'是的;但在这种情况下，如果你允许我说出我的想法……你的照片太棒了，我的观察不能影响它，而且，这只是我个人的意见。有了你，情况就不同了。你的动机是不同的。但让我们以伊万诺夫为例。我想，如果基督被降低到历史人物的水平，伊万诺夫最好选择其他一些新鲜的、未受影响的历史主题。

‘But if this is the greatest subject presented to art?’
“但这是否是艺术中最伟大的主题呢？”

‘If one looked one would find others. But the point is that art cannot suffer doubt and discussion. And before the picture of Ivanov the question arises for the believer and the unbeliever alike, ‘Is it God, or is it not God?’ and the unity of the impression is destroyed.’
‘如果一个人看的话，就会发现其他人。但重点是艺术不能承受质疑和讨论。在伊万诺夫的照片面前，信徒和非信徒都会提出这样的问题：“这是上帝，还是不是上帝？”而印象的统一性就被破坏了。

‘Why so? I think that for educated people,’ said Mihailov, ‘the question cannot exist.’
'为什么这样？我认为对于受过教育的人来说，”米哈伊洛夫说，“这个问题不可能存在。”

Golenishtchev did not agree with this, and confounded Mihailov by his support of his first idea of the unity of the impression being essential to art.
戈列尼什切夫不同意这一点，并因为支持米哈伊洛夫的第一个想法（即印象的统一对于艺术至关重要）而感到困惑。

Mihailov was greatly perturbed, but he could say nothing in defense of his own idea.
米哈伊洛夫非常不安，但他无法为自己的想法辩护。

Chapter 12
第12章

Anna and Vronsky had long been exchanging glances, regretting their friend’s flow of cleverness. At last Vronsky, without waiting for the artist, walked away to another small picture.
安娜和渥伦斯基长期以来一直交换着眼神，对朋友的聪明才智感到遗憾。最后渥伦斯基没有等艺术家，就走到了另一幅小画前。

‘Oh, how exquisite! What a lovely thing! A gem! How exquisite!’ they cried with one voice.
‘哦，多么精致啊！多么可爱的事情啊！一颗宝石！多么精美啊！”他们异口同声地喊道。

‘What is it they’re so pleased with?’ thought Mihailov. He had positively forgotten that picture he had painted three years ago. He had forgotten all the agonies and the ecstasies he had lived through with that picture when for several months it had been the one thought haunting him day and night. He had forgotten, as he always forgot, the pictures he had finished. He did not even like to look at it, and had only brought it out because he was expecting an Englishman who wanted to buy it.
“他们对什么如此满意？”米哈伊洛夫想。他完全忘记了三年前画的那幅画。他已经忘记了他因那幅画而经历的所有痛苦和狂喜，因为几个月来，它一直是他日夜萦绕的一个念头。他忘记了，正如他总是忘记的那样，他已经完成了那些画。他连看都不愿意看，只是因为他在等一个英国人想买它，所以才把它拿出来。

‘Oh, that’s only an old study,’ he said.
“哦，那只是一项古老的研究，”他说。

‘How fine!’ said Golenishtchev, he too, with unmistakable sincerity, falling under the spell of the picture.
“多好啊！”戈列尼什切夫说道，他也被这幅画迷住了，他的真诚是毫无疑问的。

Two boys were angling in the shade of a willow-tree. The elder had just dropped in the hook, and was carefully pulling the float from behind a bush, entirely absorbed in what he was doing. The other, a little younger, was lying in the grass leaning on his elbows, with his tangled, flaxen head in his hands, staring at the water with his dreamy blue eyes. What was he thinking of?
两个男孩正在柳树荫下钓鱼。老者刚刚落入鱼钩，正小心翼翼地将浮标从灌木丛后面拉出来，全神贯注于他正在做的事情。另一个年纪稍小一些，躺在草地上，胳膊肘撑着，双手抱着纠结的亚麻色脑袋，用梦幻般的蓝眼睛盯着水面。他在想什么？

The enthusiasm over this picture stirred some of the old feeling for it in Mihailov, but he feared and disliked this waste of feeling for things past, and so, even though this praise was grateful to him, he tried to draw his visitors away to a third picture.
对这幅画的热情激起了米哈伊洛夫对它的一些旧感觉，但他害怕也不喜欢这种对过去事物的感觉的浪费，因此，尽管他很感激这种赞扬，但他试图将他的访客吸引到一个第三张图片。

But Vronsky asked whether the picture was for sale. To Mihailov at that moment, excited by visitors, it was extremely distasteful to speak of money matters.
但渥伦斯基询问这幅画是否出售。对于当时因访客而兴奋的米哈伊洛夫来说，谈论金钱问题是极其令人厌恶的。

‘It is put up there to be sold,’ he answered, scowling gloomily.
“它放在那里是为了出售，”他阴沉地皱着眉头回答道。

When the visitors had gone, Mihailov sat down opposite the picture of Pilate and Christ, and in his mind went over what had been said, and what, though not said, had been implied by those visitors. And, strange to say, what had had such weight with him, while they were there and while he mentally put himself at their point of view, suddenly lost all importance for him. He began to look at his picture with all his own full artist vision, and was soon in that mood of conviction of the perfectibility, and so of the significance, of his picture—a conviction essential to the most intense fervor, excluding all other interests—in which alone he could work.
客人走后，米哈伊洛夫在彼拉多和基督的画像对面坐下，心里默念着那些客人所说的话，以及那些客人虽然没有说出来，却暗含的意思。而且，奇怪的是，当他们在场，当他在心里站在他们的角度考虑时，对他来说如此重要的东西突然对他失去了所有重要性。他开始用自己完整的艺术家视野来审视自己的画作，很快就陷入了对自己画作的完美性和意义的信念——这种信念对于最强烈的热情至关重要，排除了所有其他兴趣。 ——只有这样他才能工作。

Christ’s foreshortened leg was not right, though. He took his palette and began to work. As he corrected the leg he looked continually at the figure of John in the background, which his visitors had not even noticed, but which he knew was beyond perfection. When he had finished the leg he wanted to touch that figure, but he felt too much excited for it. He was equally unable to work when he was cold and when he was too much affected and saw everything too much. There was only one stage in the transition from coldness to inspiration, at which work was possible. Today he was too much agitated. He would have covered the picture, but he stopped, holding the cloth in his hand, and, smiling blissfully, gazed a long while at the figure of John. At last, as it were regretfully tearing himself away, he dropped the cloth, and, exhausted but happy, went home.
然而，基督缩短的腿并不正确。他拿起调色板开始工作。当他矫正腿时，他不断地看着背景中约翰的身影，他的访客甚至没有注意到这一点，但他知道这已经超出了完美。当他完成腿时，他想触碰那个人影，但他感到太兴奋了。当他感到寒冷时，当他受到太多影响并且对一切看得太多时，他同样无法工作。从冷漠到灵感的转变只有一个阶段，在这个阶段里，工作是可能的。今天他实在太激动了。他本想盖住照片，但他停了下来，手里拿着布，幸福地微笑着，久久地凝视着约翰的身影。最后，当它遗憾地撕开自己时，他扔掉了布，疲惫但高兴地回家了。

Vronsky, Anna, and Golenishtchev, on their way home, were particularly lively and cheerful. They talked of Mihailov and his pictures. The word talent, by which they meant an inborn, almost physical, aptitude apart from brain and heart, and in which they tried to find an expression for all the artist had gained from life, recurred particularly often in their talk, as though it were necessary for them to sum up what they had no conception of, though they wanted to talk of it. They said that there was no denying his talent, but that his talent could not develop for want of education—the common defect of our Russian artists. But the picture of the boys had imprinted itself on their memories, and they were continually coming back to it. ‘What an exquisite thing! How he has succeeded in it, and how simply! He doesn’t even comprehend how good it is. Yes, I mustn’t let it slip; I must buy it,’ said Vronsky.
渥伦斯基、安娜和戈列尼切夫在回家的路上显得格外活泼开朗。他们谈论米哈伊洛夫和他的画作。 “天赋”这个词在他们的谈话中特别频繁地出现，他们指的是一种与生俱来的、几乎是身体上的、除了大脑和心灵之外的能力，他们试图为艺术家从生活中获得的一切找到一种表达方式。他们有必要总结出他们没有概念的东西，尽管他们想谈论它。他们说，不可否认他的才华，但由于缺乏教育，他的才华无法发挥，这是我们俄罗斯艺术家的通病。但男孩们的照片已经深深印在了他们的记忆中，他们不断地想起它。 ‘多么精致的东西啊！他是多么成功，又多么简单！他甚至不明白这有多好。是的，我不能让它溜走；我必须买它，”渥伦斯基说。

Chapter 13
第13章

Mihailov sold Vronsky his picture, and agreed to paint a portrait of Anna. On the day fixed he came and began the work.
米哈伊洛夫把他的画卖给渥伦斯基，并同意为安娜画一幅肖像。固定的日子他来了并开始工作。

From the fifth sitting the portrait impressed everyone, especially Vronsky, not only by its resemblance, but by its characteristic beauty. It was strange how Mihailov could have discovered just her characteristic beauty. ‘One needs to know and love her as I have loved her to discover the very sweetest expression of her soul,’ Vronsky thought, though it was only from this portrait that he had himself learned this sweetest expression of her soul. But the expression was so true that he, and others too, fancied they had long known it.
从第五次坐起，这幅肖像给每个人留下了深刻的印象，尤其是渥伦斯基，不仅因为它的相似性，而且因为它特有的美丽。奇怪的是米哈伊洛夫怎么会发现她特有的美丽。 “人们需要像我爱她一样了解和爱她，才能发现她灵魂中最甜蜜的表达，”渥伦斯基想，尽管只有从这幅肖像中，他自己才了解到她灵魂中最甜蜜的表达。但这种表情是如此真实，以至于他和其他人都以为他们早就知道了。

‘I have been struggling on for ever so long without doing anything,’ he said of his own portrait of her, ‘and he just looked and painted it. That’s where technique comes in.’
“我已经奋斗了这么久，却什么也没做，”他在谈到自己为她画的肖像时说道，“而他只是看着并画了它。”这就是技术发挥作用的地方。

‘That will come,’ was the consoling reassurance given him by Golenishtchev, in whose view Vronsky had both talent, and what was most important, culture, giving him a wider outlook on art. Golenishtchev’s faith in Vronsky’s talent was propped up by his own need of Vronsky’s sympathy and approval for his own articles and ideas, and he felt that the praise and support must be mutual.
“那会到来的”是戈列尼什切夫给他的安慰保证，他认为渥伦斯基既有才华，最重要的是，有文化，这让他对艺术有了更广阔的视野。戈列尼切夫对渥伦斯基才华的信心是因为他需要渥伦斯基对他自己的文章和想法的同情和认可，他觉得赞扬和支持必须是相互的。

In another man’s house, and especially in Vronsky’s palazzo, Mihailov was quite a different man from what he was in his studio. He behaved with hostile courtesy, as though he were afraid of coming closer to people he did not respect. He called Vronsky ‘your excellency,’ and notwithstanding Anna’s and Vronsky’s invitations, he would never stay to dinner, nor come except for the sittings. Anna was even more friendly to him than to other people, and was very grateful for her portrait. Vronsky was more than cordial with him, and was obviously interested to know the artist’s opinion of his picture. Golenishtchev never let slip an opportunity of instilling sound ideas about art into Mihailov. But Mihailov remained equally chilly to all of them. Anna was aware from his eyes that he liked looking at her, but he avoided conversation with her. Vronsky’s talk about his painting he met with stubborn silence, and he was as stubbornly silent when he was shown Vronsky’s picture. He was unmistakably bored by Golenishtchev’s conversation, and he did not attempt to oppose him.
在另一个人的家里，尤其是在渥伦斯基的宫殿里，米哈伊洛夫与他在工作室里的人截然不同。他表现出敌意的礼貌，好像他害怕接近他不尊重的人。他称渥伦斯基为“阁下”，尽管安娜和渥伦斯基发出了邀请，但他绝不会留下来吃晚饭，除非是开会，否则他不会来。安娜对他甚至比对其他人还要友善，并且非常感谢自己的肖像。渥伦斯基对他非常热情，而且显然很想知道艺术家对他的画作的看法。戈列尼什切夫从不放过向米哈伊洛夫灌输正确的艺术理念的机会。但米哈伊洛夫对他们所有人都同样冷漠。安娜从他的眼神中知道他喜欢看她，但他避免与她交谈。当渥伦斯基谈论他的画作时，他遭到了顽固的沉默，当他看到渥伦斯基的照片时，他也同样顽固地沉默。毫无疑问，他对戈列尼切夫的谈话感到厌烦，而且他并没有试图反对他。

Altogether Mihailov, with his reserved and disagreeable, as it were, hostile attitude, was quite disliked by them as they got to know him better; and they were glad when the sittings were over, and they were left with a magnificent portrait in their possession, and he gave up coming. Golenishtchev was the first to give expression to an idea that had occurred to all of them, which was that Mihailov was simply jealous of Vronsky.
总而言之，随着他们对米哈伊洛夫的了解越来越多，他们很不喜欢米哈伊洛夫，因为他的态度矜持、令人讨厌，可以说是敌对态度。会议结束后，他们很高兴，留下了一幅宏伟的肖像，他放弃了来。戈列尼切夫第一个表达了他们所有人都想到的一个想法，那就是米哈伊洛夫只是嫉妒渥伦斯基。

‘Not envious, let us say, since he has talent; but it annoys him that a wealthy man of the highest society, and a count, too (you know they all detest a title), can, without any particular trouble, do as well, if not better, than he who has devoted all his life to it. And more than all, it’s a question of culture, which he is without.’
“我们可以说，不嫉妒，因为他有才华；但让他恼火的是，一个上流社会的富人，还有一个伯爵（你知道他们都讨厌头衔），可以毫不费力地做同样的事情，甚至更好，比那些奉献了自己全部的人更好。生命给它。最重要的是，这是一个文化问题，而他却没有文化。”

Vronsky defended Mihailov, but at the bottom of his heart he believed it, because in his view a man of a different, lower world would be sure to be envious.
渥伦斯基为米哈伊洛夫辩护，但他内心深处相信这一点，因为在他看来，一个来自不同下层世界的人肯定会嫉妒。

Anna’s portrait—the same subject painted from nature both by him and by Mihailov—ought to have shown Vronsky the difference between him and Mihailov; but he did not see it. Only after Mihailov’s portrait was painted he left off painting his portrait of Anna, deciding that it was now not needed. His picture of mediaeval life he went on with. And he himself, and Golenishtchev, and still more Anna, thought it very good, because it was far more like the celebrated pictures they knew than Mihailov’s picture.
安娜的肖像——他和米哈伊洛夫从大自然中画出的同一主题——应该让渥伦斯基看出他和米哈伊洛夫之间的区别；但他没有看到。直到米哈伊洛夫的肖像画完成后，他才停止画安娜的肖像，认为现在不需要了。他继续描绘着他对中世纪生活的描绘。他本人、戈列尼切夫，还有安娜，都认为这很好，因为这更像是他们所知道的著名照片，而不是米哈伊洛夫的照片。

Mihailov meanwhile, although Anna’s portrait greatly fascinated him, was even more glad than they were when the sittings were over, and he had no longer to listen to Golenishtchev’s disquisitions upon art, and could forget about Vronsky’s painting. He knew that Vronsky could not be prevented from amusing himself with painting; he knew that he and all dilettanti had a perfect right to paint what they liked, but it was distasteful to him. A man could not be prevented from making himself a big wax doll, and kissing it. But if the man were to come with the doll and sit before a man in love, and begin caressing his doll as the lover caressed the woman he loved, it would be distasteful to the lover. Just such a distasteful sensation was what Mihailov felt at the sight of Vronsky’s painting: he felt it both ludicrous and irritating, both pitiable and offensive.
与此同时，米哈伊洛夫虽然对安娜的肖像非常着迷，但比他们在会议结束时更高兴，他不必再听戈列尼切夫的艺术论文，可以忘记渥伦斯基的画。他知道渥伦斯基无法阻止他以绘画为乐。他知道他和所有业余爱好者都完全有权利画自己喜欢的东西，但这对他来说是令人厌恶的。一个男人无法阻止自己给自己做一个大蜡娃娃，然后亲吻它。但如果男人带着洋娃娃坐在一个恋爱中的男人面前，并像情人抚摸他所爱的女人一样开始抚摸他的洋娃娃，这会让情人感到厌恶。米哈伊洛夫看到渥伦斯基的画时，就产生了这样一种令人厌恶的感觉：他觉得这幅画既可笑又令人恼火，既可怜又令人反感。

Vronsky’s interest in painting and the Middle Ages did not last long. He had enough taste for painting to be unable to finish his picture. The picture came to a standstill. He was vaguely aware that its defects, inconspicuous at first, would be glaring if he were to go on with it. The same experience befell him as Golenishtchev, who felt that he had nothing to say, and continually deceived himself with the theory that his idea was not yet mature, that he was working it out and collecting materials. This exasperated and tortured Golenishtchev, but Vronsky was incapable of deceiving and torturing himself, and even more incapable of exasperation. With his characteristic decision, without explanation or apology, he simply ceased working at painting.
渥伦斯基对绘画和中世纪的兴趣并没有持续多久。他有足够的绘画品味，无法完成他的画。画面戛然而止。他隐约意识到，它的缺陷一开始并不明显，如果继续下去，就会变得很明显。戈列尼切夫也有同样的经历，他觉得自己无话可说，并不断地用自己的想法尚未成熟、正在研究和收集材料的理论来欺骗自己。这让戈列尼切夫感到愤怒和折磨，但渥伦斯基无法欺骗和折磨自己，更无法愤怒。根据他特有的决定，他没有任何解释或道歉，就干脆停止了绘画工作。

But without this occupation, the life of Vronsky and of Anna, who wondered at his loss of interest in it, struck them as intolerably tedious in an Italian town. The palazzo suddenly seemed so obtrusively old and dirty, the spots on the curtains, the cracks in the floors, the broken plaster on the cornices became so disagreeably obvious, and the everlasting sameness of Golenishtchev, and the Italian professor and the German traveler became so wearisome, that they had to make some change. They resolved to go to Russia, to the country. In Petersburg Vronsky intended to arrange a partition of the land with his brother, while Anna meant to see her son. The summer they intended to spend on Vronsky’s great family estate.
但如果没有这份工作，渥伦斯基和安娜在意大利小镇上的生活就会变得乏味得令人难以忍受。安娜对他对此失去了兴趣感到惊讶。这座宫殿突然显得如此陈旧和肮脏，窗帘上的斑点、地板上的裂缝、飞檐上破损的灰泥都变得如此明显，令人不快，而戈列尼切夫、意大利教授和德国旅行者永远的千篇一律也变得如此明显。令人厌烦的是，他们必须做出一些改变。他们决定去俄罗斯，去乡下。在彼得堡，渥伦斯基打算与他的兄弟安排一块土地的分割，而安娜则打算去见她的儿子。他们打算在渥伦斯基家族的大庄园里度过这个夏天。

Chapter 14
第14章

Levin had been married three months. He was happy, but not at all in the way he had expected to be. At every step he found his former dreams disappointed, and new, unexpected surprises of happiness. He was happy; but on entering upon family life he saw at every step that it was utterly different from what he had imagined. At every step he experienced what a man would experience who, after admiring the smooth, happy course of a little boat on a lake, should get himself into that little boat. He saw that it was not all sitting still, floating smoothly; that one had to think too, not for an instant to forget where one was floating; and that there was water under one, and that one must row; and that his unaccustomed hands would be sore; and that it was only to look at it that was easy; but that doing it, though very delightful, was very difficult.
莱文结婚三个月了。他很高兴，但完全不像他想象的那样。每走一步，他都会发现以前的梦想落空，而新的、意想不到的幸福惊喜。他很高兴;但进入家庭生活后，他发现每一步都与他想象的完全不同。每走一步，他都体验到一个人在欣赏完湖上小船平稳、快乐的航向后，应该登上那条小船的经历。他发现它并不是一动不动地静止不动，而是平稳地漂浮着。人也必须思考，一刻都不能忘记自己漂浮在哪里；船底下有水，必须划船；他不习惯的手会酸痛；而且只要看看它就很容易；但这样做虽然非常令人愉快，但却非常困难。

As a bachelor, when he had watched other people’s married life, seen the petty cares, the squabbles, the jealousy, he had only smiled contemptuously in his heart. In his future married life there could be, he was convinced, nothing of that sort; even the external forms, indeed, he fancied, must be utterly unlike the life of others in everything. And all of a sudden, instead of his life with his wife being made on an individual pattern, it was, on the contrary, entirely made up of the pettiest details, which he had so despised before, but which now, by no will of his own, had gained an extraordinary importance that it was useless to contend against. And Levin saw that the organization of all these details was by no means so easy as he had fancied before. Although Levin believed himself to have the most exact conceptions of domestic life, unconsciously, like all men, he pictured domestic life as the happiest enjoyment of love, with nothing to hinder and no petty cares to distract. He ought, as he conceived the position, to do his work, and to find repose from it in the happiness of love. She ought to be beloved, and nothing more. But, like all men, he forgot that she too would want work. And he was surprised that she, his poetic, exquisite Kitty, could, not merely in the first weeks, but even in the first days of their married life, think, remember, and busy herself about tablecloths, and furniture, about mattresses for visitors, about a tray, about the cook, and the dinner, and so on. While they were still engaged, he had been struck by the definiteness with which she had declined the tour abroad and decided to go into the country, as though she knew of something she wanted, and could still think of something outside her love. This had jarred upon him then, and now her trivial cares and anxieties jarred upon him several times. But he saw that this was essential for her. And, loving her as he did, though he did not understand the reason of them, and jeered at these domestic pursuits, he could not help admiring them. He jeered at the way in which she arranged the furniture they had brought from Moscow; rearranged their room; hung up curtains; prepared rooms for visitors; a room for Dolly; saw after an abode for her new maid; ordered dinner of the old cook; came into collision with Agafea Mihalovna, taking from her the charge of the stores. He saw how the old cook smiled, admiring her, and listening to her inexperienced, impossible orders, how mournfully and tenderly Agafea Mihalovna shook her head over the young mistress’s new arrangements. He saw that Kitty was extraordinarily sweet when, laughing and crying, she came to tell him that her maid, Masha, was used to looking upon her as her young lady, and so no one obeyed her. It seemed to him sweet, but strange, and he thought it would have been better without this.
作为一个单身汉，当他看到别人的婚姻生活，看到别人的琐事、争吵、嫉妒时，他心里也只是轻蔑地一笑。他确信，在他未来的婚姻生活中，不可能有这样的事情。事实上，他认为，即使是外在形式，也一定在所有方面都与其他人的生活完全不同。突然间，他和​​妻子的生活不再是按照个人模式构建的，相反，完全是由最琐碎的细节组成的，他以前曾如此鄙视这些细节，但现在，他不再愿意了。他自己的，已经获得了非凡的重要性，任何对抗都是毫无用处的。莱文发现所有这些细节的组织绝非他之前想象的那么容易。尽管莱文相信自己对家庭生活有最准确的概念，但他无意识地像所有男人一样，将家庭生活描绘成爱的最幸福的享受，没有任何阻碍，也没有琐碎的事情分散注意力。正如他设想的那样，他应该做好自己的工作，并在爱的幸福中找到休息。她应该被爱，仅此而已。但是，像所有男人一样，他忘记了她也想要工作。他感到惊讶的是，她，他诗意的、精致的凯蒂，不仅在最初几周，甚至在他们结婚的最初几天，都能思考、记住，并忙于桌布、家具、为访客准备的床垫。 ，关于托盘，关于厨师，关于晚餐，等等。当他们还订婚的时候，他对她拒绝出国旅行并决定去乡下的坚决感到震惊，就好像她知道自己想要什么，并且仍然可以想到她所爱之外的事情。 这件事当时让他感到不舒服，现在她的琐事和焦虑又好几次让他感到不舒服。但他看到这对她来说至关重要。而且，尽管他不明白其中的原因，并嘲笑这些家庭追求，但他仍然爱着她，但他还是忍不住钦佩它们。他嘲笑她摆放从莫斯科带来的家具的方式。重新布置了他们的房间；挂上窗帘；为访客准备房间；多莉的房间；为她的新女仆寻找住处；点了老厨师的晚餐；与阿加菲娅·米哈伊洛芙娜发生碰撞，夺走了她对商店的管理权。他看到老厨师微笑着，欣赏她，听着她缺乏经验的、不可能的命令，阿加菲娅·米哈伊洛夫娜对年轻情妇的新安排是多么悲伤而温柔地摇着头。他见凯蒂哭笑不得地跑来告诉他，她的女仆玛莎习惯了把她当作自己的小姐，所以没有人听她的。他觉得这很甜蜜，但很奇怪，他想如果没有这个会更好。

He did not know how great a sense of change she was experiencing; she, who at home had sometimes wanted some favorite dish, or sweets, without the possibility of getting either, now could order what she liked, buy pounds of sweets, spend as much money as she liked, and order any puddings she pleased.
他不知道她正在经历着多大的变化。她在家里有时想要一些最喜欢的菜肴或糖果，但都没有可能得到，现在她可以点她喜欢的东西，买几磅糖果，想花多少钱就花多少钱，点她喜欢的任何布丁。

She was dreaming with delight now of Dolly’s coming to them with her children, especially because she would order for the children their favorite puddings and Dolly would appreciate all her new housekeeping. She did not know herself why and wherefore, but the arranging of her house had an irresistible attraction for her. Instinctively feeling the approach of spring, and knowing that there would be days of rough weather too, she built her nest as best she could, and was in haste at the same time to build it and to learn how to do it.
她现在高兴地梦想着多莉带着她的孩子们来到他们身边，特别是因为她会为孩子们点他们最喜欢的布丁，而多莉会感激她所有的新家政服务。她自己也不知道为什么，但家里的布置对她有一种不可抗拒的吸引力。她本能地感受到了春天的来临，也知道还会有恶劣天气的日子，她尽其所能地筑起自己的巢，同时又急于建造并学习如何建造。

This care for domestic details in Kitty, so opposed to Levin’s ideal of exalted happiness, was at first one of the disappointments; and this sweet care of her household, the aim of which he did not understand, but could not help loving, was one of the new happy surprises.
基蒂对家庭细节的关心，与莱文崇高幸福的理想背道而驰，一开始是令人失望的地方之一。对她家庭的这种甜蜜的照顾，他不明白其目的，但却情不自禁地喜爱，这是新的惊喜之一。

Another disappointment and happy surprise came in their quarrels. Levin could never have conceived that between him and his wife any relations could arise other than tender, respectful and loving, and all at once in the very early days they quarreled, so that she said he did not care for her, that he cared for no one but himself, burst into tears, and wrung her arms.
另一个令人失望和惊喜的事情是他们的争吵。莱文从来没有想到他和他的妻子之间除了温柔、尊重和爱之外还能产生任何关系，而且在很早的时候他们突然吵架，所以她说他不关心她，他关心她。除了他自己，没有人放声大哭，扭动她的双臂。

This first quarrel arose from Levin’s having gone out to a new farmhouse and having been away half an hour too long, because he had tried to get home by a short cut and had lost his way. He drove home thinking of nothing but her, of her love, of his own happiness, and the nearer he drew to home, the warmer was his tenderness for her. He ran into the room with the same feeling, with an even stronger feeling than he had had when he reached the Shtcherbatskys’ house to make his offer. And suddenly he was met by a lowering expression he had never seen in her. He would have kissed her; she pushed him away.
第一次争吵起因是莱文出去一所新农舍，离开了半个小时，因为他想抄近路回家，结果迷了路。他开车回家时只想着她，想着她的爱，想着他自己的幸福，离家越近，他对她的温柔就越温暖。他带着同样的感觉跑进房间，这种感觉比他到谢尔巴茨基家提出要约时的感觉还要强烈。突然，他看到了她从未见过的低沉表情。他会吻她的；她把他推开。

‘What is it?’
'它是什么？'

‘You’ve been enjoying yourself,’ she began, trying to be calm and spiteful. But as soon as she opened her mouth, a stream of reproach, of senseless jealousy, of all that had been torturing her during that half hour which she had spent sitting motionless at the window, burst from her. It was only then, for the first time, that he clearly understood what he had not understood when he led her out of the church after the wedding. He felt now that he was not simply close to her, but that he did not know where he ended and she began. He felt this from the agonizing sensation of division that he experienced at that instant. He was offended for the first instant, but the very same second he felt that he could not be offended by her, that she was himself. He felt for the first moment as a man feels when, having suddenly received a violent blow from behind, he turns round, angry and eager to avenge himself, to look for his antagonist, and finds that it is he himself who has accidentally struck himself, that there is no one to be angry with, and that he must put up with and try to soothe the pain.
“你玩得很开心，”她开始说，试图保持冷静和恶意。但她一开口，一股责备、毫无意义的嫉妒，以及她坐在窗前一动不动的半个小时里折磨她的一切，就从她的心里涌了出来。直到这时，他才第一次清楚地明白了婚礼结束后他领着她走出教堂时所不明白的事情。他现在觉得他不仅离她很近，而且他不知道他在哪里结束，她在哪里开始。他从那一瞬间所经历的痛苦的分裂感中感受到了这一点。第一瞬间他感到被冒犯了，但就在同一时刻，他觉得他不能被她冒犯，因为她就是他自己。他第一次感受到了男人突然受到背后猛烈一击的感觉，他愤怒地转过身来，想要为自己报仇，寻找对手，却发现不小心打到自己的是自己。 ，没有人可以生气，他必须忍受并尽力缓解痛苦。

Never afterwards did he feel it with such intensity, but this first time he could not for a long while get over it. His natural feeling urged him to defend himself, to prove to her she was wrong; but to prove her wrong would mean irritating her still more and making the rupture greater that was the cause of all his suffering. One habitual feeling impelled him to get rid of the blame and to pass it on to her. Another feeling, even stronger, impelled him as quickly as possible to smooth over the rupture without letting it grow greater. To remain under such undeserved reproach was wretched, but to make her suffer by justifying himself was worse still. Like a man half-awake in an agony of pain, he wanted to tear out, to fling away the aching place, and coming to his senses, he felt that the aching place was himself. He could do nothing but try to help the aching place to bear it, and this he tried to do.
此后他从未有过如此强烈的感受，但这一次他很长一段时间都无法平静。他本能的感觉促使他为自己辩护，向她证明她错了。但要证明她错了，就意味着更加激怒她，让裂痕变得更大，而这正是他所有痛苦的根源。一种习惯性的感觉促使他甩掉责任，转嫁到她身上。另一种感觉，甚至更强烈，促使他尽快抚平裂痕，不让它变得更大。继续受到这种不应有的责备固然可悲，但为自己辩解而让她受苦就更糟糕了。就像一个在痛苦中半醒的人，他想要撕扯，想要甩掉那个疼痛的地方，而回过神来，他觉得那个疼痛的地方就是自己。他无能为力，只能尽力帮助疼痛的地方承受它，而他也尝试这样做。

They made peace. She, recognizing that she was wrong, though she did not say so, became tenderer to him, and they experienced new, redoubled happiness in their love. But that did not prevent such quarrels from happening again, and exceedingly often too, on the most unexpected and trivial grounds. These quarrels frequently arose from the fact that they did not yet know what was of importance to each other and that all this early period they were both often in a bad temper. When one was in a good temper, and the other in a bad temper, the peace was not broken; but when both happened to be in an ill-humor, quarrels sprang up from such incomprehensibly trifling causes, that they could never remember afterwards what they had quarreled about. It is true that when they were both in a good temper their enjoyment of life was redoubled. But still this first period of their married life was a difficult time for them.
他们实现了和平。她认识到自己错了，尽管她没有说出来，但她对他变得更加温柔，他们在爱情中体验到了新的、加倍的幸福。但这并没有阻止此类争吵再次发生，而且经常是因为最意想不到、最微不足道的理由而发生。这些争吵常常是由于他们还不知道什么对彼此来说是重要的，而且在早期他们都经常脾气不好。当一个人脾气好，另一个人脾气坏时，和平并没有被打破；但当两人心情不好时，就会因为一些难以理解的琐事而发生争吵，以至于事后他们都记不起争吵的内容。确实，当两人心情好的时候，生活的乐趣就会加倍。但婚姻生活的第一阶段对他们来说仍然是一段艰难的时期。

During all this early time they had a peculiarly vivid sense of tension, as it were, a tugging in opposite directions of the chain by which they were bound. Altogether their honeymoon—that is to say, the month after their wedding—from which from tradition Levin expected so much, was not merely not a time of sweetness, but remained in the memories of both as the bitterest and most humiliating period in their lives. They both alike tried in later life to blot out from their memories all the monstrous, shameful incidents of that morbid period, when both were rarely in a normal frame of mind, both were rarely quite themselves.
在这么早的时间里，他们有一种特别生动的紧张感，就像束缚他们的链条向相反的方向拉扯一样。总而言之，他们的蜜月——也就是说，他们结婚后的一个月——按照传统莱文对蜜月寄予了很大的期望，但蜜月不仅不是一段甜蜜的时光，而且在他们的记忆中仍然是他们一生中最痛苦和最屈辱的时期。 。他们都在后来的生活中都试图从记忆中抹去那个病态时期所有可怕的、可耻的事件，当时两人的心境都很少处于正常状态，两人都很少恢复正常。

It was only in the third month of their married life, after their return from Moscow, where they had been staying for a month, that their life began to go more smoothly.
直到结婚后的第三个月，他们从在莫斯科待了一个月的人回来后，生活才开始变得更加顺利。

Chapter 15
第15章

They had just come back from Moscow, and were glad to be alone. He was sitting at the writing table in his study, writing. She, wearing the dark lilac dress she had worn during the first days of their married life, and put on again today, a dress particularly remembered and loved by him, was sitting on the sofa, the same old-fashioned leather sofa which had always stood in the study in Levin’s father’s and grandfather’s days. She was sewing at broderie anglaise. He thought and wrote, never losing the happy consciousness of her presence. His work, both on the land and on the book, in which the principles of the new land system were to be laid down, had not been abandoned; but just as formerly these pursuits and ideas had seemed to him petty and trivial in comparison with the darkness that overspread all life, now they seemed as unimportant and petty in comparison with the life that lay before him suffused with the brilliant light of happiness. He went on with his work, but he felt now that the center of gravity of his attention had passed to something else, and that consequently he looked at his work quite differently and more clearly. Formerly this work had been for him an escape from life. Formerly he had felt that without this work his life would be too gloomy. Now these pursuits were necessary for him that life might not be too uniformly bright. Taking up his manuscript, reading through what he had written, he found with pleasure that the work was worth his working at. Many of his old ideas seemed to him superfluous and extreme, but many blanks became distinct to him when he reviewed the whole thing in his memory. He was writing now a new chapter on the causes of the present disastrous condition of agriculture in Russia. He maintained that the poverty of Russia arises not merely from the anomalous distribution of landed property and misdirected reforms, but that what had contributed of late years to this result was the civilization from without abnormally grafted upon Russia, especially facilities of communication, as railways, leading to centralization in towns, the development of luxury, and the consequent development of manufactures, credit and its accompaniment of speculation—all to the detriment of agriculture. It seemed to him that in a normal development of wealth in a state all these phenomena would arise only when a considerable amount of labor had been put into agriculture, when it had come under regular, or at least definite, conditions; that the wealth of a country ought to increase proportionally, and especially in such a way that other sources of wealth should not outstrip agriculture; that in harmony with a certain stage of agriculture there should be means of communication corresponding to it, and that in our unsettled condition of the land, railways, called into being by political and not by economic needs, were premature, and instead of promoting agriculture, as was expected of them, they were competing with agriculture and promoting the development of manufactures and credit, and so arresting its progress; and that just as the one-sided and premature development of one organ in an animal would hinder its general development, so in the general development of wealth in Russia, credit, facilities of communication, manufacturing activity, indubitably necessary in Europe, where they had arisen in their proper time, had with us only done harm, by throwing into the background the chief question calling for settlement—the question of the organization of agriculture.
他们刚从莫斯科回来，很高兴独自一人。他正坐在书房的写字台前写字。她穿着新婚之初穿过的深紫丁香色连衣裙，今天又穿上了，一件他特别记得和喜爱的衣服，坐在沙发上，还是一如既往的老式皮沙发。站在莱文父亲和祖父时代的书房里。她在英国刺绣厂缝纫。他思考、写作，永远不会失去她存在的快乐意识。他在土地和书籍方面的工作并没有被放弃，其中规定了新土地制度的原则。但正如以前这些追求和想法在他看来，与遍布整个生活的黑暗相比，显得微不足道、微不足道，现在，与他面前洋溢着幸福光芒的生活相比，它们也显得微不足道、微不足道。他继续他的工作，但现在他觉得他的注意力的重心转移到了别的事情上，因此他对自己的工作的看法完全不同，也更加清晰。以前，这份工作对他来说是一种逃避生活的方式。以前他觉得如果没有这份工作，他的生活就太灰暗了。现在，这些追求对他来说是必要的，这样生活就不会太一帆风顺。他拿起手稿，通读一遍，欣喜地发现这部作品值得他去努力。以前的很多想法在他看来都是多余和极端的，但当他回顾整个记忆时，许多空白却清晰可见。他现在正在撰写关于俄罗斯农业目前灾难性状况的原因的新篇章。 他认为，俄罗斯的贫困不仅源于土地财产的不正常分配和错误的改革，而且近年来造成这一结果的原因是俄罗斯不正常嫁接的文明，特别是交通设施，如铁路、导致城镇集中化、奢侈品的发展以及随之而来的制造业、信贷及其伴随的投机的发展——所有这些都损害了农业。在他看来，在一个国家的财富的正常发展中，只有当大量的劳动力投入到农业中，当农业处于正常的、或者至少是确定的条件下时，所有这些现象才会出现。一个国家的财富应该按比例增加，特别是其他财富来源不应超过农业；与农业的某一阶段相协调，应该有与之相适应的交通手段，而在我们土地条件不稳定的情况下，出于政治而不是经济需要而建立的铁路是不成熟的，并且不能促进农业正如人们所期望的那样，他们与农业竞争，促进制造业和信贷的发展，从而阻碍了农业的进步；正如动物某一器官的片面和过早发育会阻碍其总体发展一样，在俄罗斯财富的总体发展中，信贷、通讯设施、制造业活动无疑是欧洲所必需的，因为在欧洲，他们拥有在适当的时候出现的，对我们来说只会造成伤害，因为它把需要解决的主要问题——农业组织问题抛到了幕后。

While he was writing his ideas she was thinking how unnaturally cordial her husband had been to young Prince Tcharsky, who had, with great want of tact, flirted with her the day before they left Moscow. ‘He’s jealous,’ she thought. ‘Goodness! how sweet and silly he is! He’s jealous of me! If he knew that I think no more of them than of Piotr the cook,’ she thought, looking at his head and red neck with a feeling of possession strange to herself. ‘Though it’s a pity to take him from his work (but he has plenty of time!), I must look at his face; will he feel I’m looking at him? I wish he’d turn round...I’ll will him to!’ and she opened her eyes wide, as though to intensify the influence of her gaze.
当他写下自己的想法时，她在想，她的丈夫对年轻的查尔斯基王子表现得多么不自然，在他们离开莫斯科的前一天，查尔斯基王子非常不机智地与她调情。 “他嫉妒了，”她想。 ‘天啊！他是多么可爱又愚蠢啊！他嫉妒我！如果他知道我对他们的看法不亚于对厨子皮奥特的看法，”她一边想，一边看着他的头和红红的脖子，心里有一种对自己来说很奇怪的占有感。 “虽然让他离开工作很遗憾（但他有足够的时间！），但我必须看看他的脸；他会觉得我在看他吗？我希望他能转过身来……我会让他转过来的！”她睁大了眼睛，仿佛要加强她目光的影响力。

‘Yes, they draw away all the sap and give a false appearance of prosperity,’ he muttered, stopping to write, and, feeling that she was looking at him and smiling, he looked round.
“是的，它们吸走了所有的活力，给人一种繁荣的假象，”他嘀咕着，停下来写，感觉到她正在看着他微笑，他环顾四周。

‘Well?’ he queried, smiling, and getting up.
“怎么样？”他微笑着问道，然后站了起来。

‘He looked round,’ she thought.
“他环顾四周，”她想。

‘It’s nothing; I wanted you to look round,’ she said, watching him, and trying to guess whether he was vexed at being interrupted or not.
'没什么;我想让你环顾四周，”她说，看着他，试图猜测他是否因为被打扰而烦恼。

‘How happy we are alone together!—I am, that is,’ he said, going up to her with a radiant smile of happiness.
“我们单独在一起是多么幸福啊！——我就是这样，”他一边说着，一边向她走去，脸上带着灿烂的幸福微笑。

‘I’m just as happy. I’ll never go anywhere, especially not to Moscow.’
'我也同样高兴。我永远不会去任何地方，尤其是莫斯科。”

‘And what were you thinking about?’
“你在想什么？”

‘I? I was thinking.... No, no, go along, go on writing; don’t break off,’ she said, pursing up her lips, ‘and I must cut out these little holes now, do you see?’
'我？我在想……不，不，继续，继续写；不要折断，”她撅起嘴唇说道，“我现在必须把这些小洞切掉，你明白吗？”

She took up her scissors and began cutting them out.
她拿起剪刀，开始把它们剪下来。

‘No; tell me, what was it?’ he said, sitting down beside her and watching the tiny scissors moving round.
'不;告诉我，那是什么？”他一边说，一边坐在她旁边，看着那把小剪刀四处移动。

‘Oh! what was I thinking about? I was thinking about Moscow, about the back of your head.’
'哦！我在想什么？我在想莫斯科，在想你的后脑勺。”

‘Why should I, of all people, have such happiness! It’s unnatural, too good,’ he said, kissing her hand.
‘为什么我，在所有人中，应该有这样的幸福！这太不自然了，太好了。”他一边说，一边亲吻她的手。

‘I feel quite the opposite; the better things are, the more natural it seems to me.’
“我的感觉恰恰相反；事情越好，对我来说就越自然。”

‘And you’ve got a little curl loose,’ he said, carefully turning her head round.
“你的卷发有点松了，”他说，小心地转过她的头。

‘A little curl, oh yes. No, no, we are busy at our work!’
“有点卷曲，哦，是的。不，不，我们工作很忙！

Work did not progress further, and they darted apart from one another like culprits when Kouzma came in to announce that tea was ready.
工作没有进一步进展，当库兹马进来宣布茶准备好了时，他们像罪魁祸首一样迅速分开。

‘Have they come from the town?’ Levin asked Kouzma.
“他们是从镇上来的吗？”莱文问库兹马。

‘They’ve just come; they’re unpacking the things.’
‘他们刚刚来；他们正在打开东西。

‘Come quickly,’ she said to him as she went out of the study, ‘or else I shall read your letters without you.’
“快来吧，”她走出书房时对他说，“不然我就在没有你的情况下读你的信了。”

Left alone, after putting his manuscripts together in the new portfolio bought by her, he washed his hands at the new washstand with the elegant fittings, that had all made their appearance with her. Levin smiled at his own thoughts, and shook his head disapprovingly at those thoughts; a feeling akin to remorse fretted him. There was something shameful, effeminate, Capuan, as he called it to himself, in his present mode of life. ‘It’s not right to go on like this,’ he thought. ‘It’ll soon be three months, and I’m doing next to nothing. Today, almost for the first time, I set to work seriously, and what happened? I did nothing but begin and throw it aside. Even my ordinary pursuits I have almost given up. On the land I scarcely walk or drive about at all to look after things. Either I am loath to leave her, or I see she’s dull alone. And I used to think that, before marriage, life was nothing much, somehow didn’t count, but that after marriage, life began in earnest. And here almost three months have passed, and I have spent my time so idly and unprofitably. No, this won’t do; I must begin. Of course, it’s not her fault. She’s not to blame in any way. I ought myself to be firmer, to maintain my masculine independence of action; or else I shall get into such ways, and she’ll get used to them too.... Of course she’s not to blame,’ he told himself.
他独自一人，将自己的手稿整理到她买的新作品集里，然后在新盥洗台前洗手，盥洗台上的优雅配件都是和她一起出现的。莱文对自己的想法笑了笑，又不以为然地摇了摇头。一种类似于悔恨的感觉让他心烦意乱。在他目前的生活方式中，有一种可耻的、女性化的东西，卡普安这样称呼自己。 “再这样下去是不对的，”他想。 “很快就三个月了，我几乎什么也没做。今天，几乎是第一次，我开始认真工作，结果发生了什么？我什么也没做，只是开始把它扔到一边。就连我平凡的追求我也几乎放弃了。在陆地上，我几乎不走路或开车去照顾东西。要么是我不愿意离开她，要么是我发现她一个人很无聊。我曾经以为，结婚前，生活没什么大不了的，不知何故不算数，但结婚后，生活才真正开始。在这里已经快三个月过去了，我的时间就这么无所事事、毫无收获地度过了。不，这不行；我必须开始了。当然，这不是她的错。无论如何，她都不应受到责备。我自己应该更加坚定，保持男性的行动独立性；不然我就会陷入这样的境地，而她也会习惯的……当然这不能怪她，”他告诉自己。

But it is hard for anyone who is dissatisfied not to blame someone else, and especially the person nearest of all to him, for the ground of his dissatisfaction. And it vaguely came into Levin’s mind that she herself was not to blame (she could not be to blame for anything), but what was to blame was her education, too superficial and frivolous. (“That fool Tcharsky: she wanted, I know, to stop him, but didn’t know how to.’) ‘Yes, apart from her interest in the house (that she has), apart from dress and broderie anglaise, she has no serious interests. No interest in her work, in the estate, in the peasants, nor in music, though she’s rather good at it, nor in reading. She does nothing, and is perfectly satisfied.’ Levin, in his heart, censured this, and did not as yet understand that she was preparing for that period of activity which was to come for her when she would at once be the wife of her husband and mistress of the house, and would bear, and nurse, and bring up children. He knew not that she was instinctively aware of this, and preparing herself for this time of terrible toil, did not reproach herself for the moments of carelessness and happiness in her love that she enjoyed now while gaily building her nest for the future.
但任何不满意的人都很难不将不满归咎于别人，尤其是与他最亲近的人。莱文隐隐约约地想到，这不怪她自己（她不能为任何事情负责），而是她所受的教育太肤浅和轻浮了。 （“那个傻瓜查斯基：我知道，她想阻止他，但不知道该怎么做。”）“是的，除了她对房子（她拥有的）的兴趣，除了衣服和英式刺绣之外，她没有重大利益。对她的工作、庄园、农民、音乐（尽管她相当擅长）不感兴趣，也不喜欢阅读。她什么也没做，就很满意了。”列文心里对此表示谴责，还不明白她正在为即将成为她的妻子的那段活动做准备。家庭的丈夫和女主人，会生育、护理和抚养孩子。他不知道她本能地意识到了这一点，并为这段可怕的辛劳做好了准备，并没有责备自己现在享受着爱情中的粗心和幸福的时刻，同时又为未来快乐地筑巢。

Chapter 16
第16章

When Levin went upstairs, his wife was sitting near the new silver samovar behind the new tea service, and, having settled old Agafea Mihalovna at a little table with a full cup of tea, was reading a letter from Dolly, with whom they were in continual and frequent correspondence.
当列文上楼时，他的妻子正坐在新茶具后面的新银茶炊旁边，她把老阿加菲亚·米哈伊洛芙娜端着一杯茶安置在一张小桌子旁，正在读多莉的一封信，他们和她一起住在一起​​。持续且频繁的通信。

‘You see, your good lady’s settled me here, told me to sit a bit with her,’ said Agafea Mihalovna, smiling affectionately at Kitty.
“你看，你的好夫人把我安置在这儿，让我和她一起坐一会儿，”阿加菲娅·米哈伊洛夫娜说道，对基蒂深情地微笑着。

In these words of Agafea Mihalovna, Levin read the final act of the drama which had been enacted of late between her and Kitty. He saw that, in spite of Agafea Mihalovna’s feelings being hurt by a new mistress taking the reins of government out of her hands, Kitty had yet conquered her and made her love her.
列文用阿加菲娅·米哈伊洛夫娜的话朗读了她和基蒂最近上演的戏剧的最后一幕。他看到，尽管阿加菲娅·米哈伊洛芙娜的感情因为新情妇夺走了政府的控制权而受到伤害，但基蒂仍然征服了她，让她爱她。

‘Here, I opened your letter too,’ said Kitty, handing him an illiterate letter. ‘It’s from that woman, I think, your brother’s...’ she said. ‘I did not read it through. This is from my people and from Dolly. Fancy! Dolly took Tanya and Grisha to a children’s ball at the Sarmatskys’: Tanya was a French marquise.’
“喏，我也打开了你的信。”基蒂递给他一封不识字的信，说道。 “我想，是那个女人给你哥哥的……”她说。 ‘我没有读完。这是来自我的人民和多莉的。想要！多莉带坦尼娅和格里沙去参加萨尔马茨基家族的儿童舞会：坦尼娅是一位法国侯爵夫人。

But Levin did not hear her. Flushing, he took the letter from Marya Nikolaevna, his brother’s former mistress, and began to read it. This was the second letter he had received from Marya Nikolaevna. In the first letter, Marya Nikolaevna wrote that his brother had sent her away for no fault of hers, and, with touching simplicity, added that though she was in want again, she asked for nothing, and wished for nothing, but was only tormented by the thought that Nikolay Dmitrievitch would come to grief without her, owing to the weak state of his health, and begged his brother to look after him. Now she wrote quite differently. She had found Nikolay Dmitrievitch, had again made it up with him in Moscow, and had moved with him to a provincial town, where he had received a post in the government service. But that he had quarreled with the head official, and was on his way back to Moscow, only he had been taken so ill on the road that it was doubtful if he would ever leave his bed again, she wrote. ‘It’s always of you he has talked, and, besides, he has no more money left.’
但莱文没有听到她的声音。他涨红了脸，接过他哥哥的前情妇玛丽亚·尼古拉耶芙娜的信，开始读起来。这是他收到玛丽亚·尼古拉耶夫娜的第二封信。在第一封信中，玛丽亚·尼古拉耶夫娜写道，他的兄弟把她送走并不是因为她的过错，并以令人感动的简单性补充说，虽然她再次陷入贫困，但她什么也没要求，什么也没有希望，但只是受到折磨想到尼古拉·德米特里耶维奇由于身体虚弱，如果没有她，他会感到悲伤，于是请求他的兄弟照顾他。现在她写得完全不同了。她找到了尼古拉·德米特里耶维奇，在莫斯科再次和他重归于好，并和他一起搬到了一个外省城镇，他在那里得到了政府部门的一个职位。但她写道，他与首席官员发生了争吵，当时正在返回莫斯科的路上，只是他在路上病得很重，以至于怀疑他是否会再次下床。 “他总是谈论你，而且，他已经没有钱了。”

‘Read this; Dolly writes about you,’ Kitty was beginning, with a smile; but she stopped suddenly, noticing the changed expression on her husband’s face.
'读这个;多莉写到了你。”基蒂微笑着开始说道。但她突然停了下来，注意到丈夫脸上的表情发生了变化。

‘What is it? What’s the matter?’
'它是什么？怎么了？'

‘She writes to me that Nikolay, my brother, is at death’s door. I shall go to him.’
“她写信给我说，我的兄弟尼古拉已经濒临死亡。我要去见他。

Kitty’s face changed at once. Thoughts of Tanya as a marquise, of Dolly, all had vanished.
凯蒂的脸色顿时变了。坦尼娅作为侯爵夫人的想法、多莉的想法都消失了。

‘When are you going?’ she said.
“你什么时候走？”她说。

‘Tomorrow.’
'明天。'

‘And I will go with you, can I?’ she said.
“我和你一起去，可以吗？”她说。

‘Kitty! What are you thinking of?’ he said reproachfully.
'猫咪！你在想什么？”他责备地说。

‘How do you mean?’ offended that he should seem to take her suggestion unwillingly and with vexation. ‘Why shouldn’t I go? I shan’t be in your way. I...’
“你这是什么意思？”他似乎不情愿且恼怒地接受了她的建议，这让他很生气。 ‘我为什么不应该去？我不会妨碍你的。我...'

‘I’m going because my brother is dying,’ said Levin. ‘Why should you...’
“我要去是因为我哥哥快要死了，”莱文说。 '你为什么要...'

‘Why? For the same reason as you.’
'为什么？和你出于同样的原因。

‘And, at a moment of such gravity for me, she only thinks of her being dull by herself,’ thought Levin. And this lack of candor in a matter of such gravity infuriated him.
“而且，在对我来说如此重要的时刻，她只觉得自己一个人很无聊，”莱文想。在如此严重的问题上缺乏坦诚激怒了他。

‘It’s out of the question,’ he said sternly.
“这是不可能的，”他严厉地说。

Agafea Mihalovna, seeing that it was coming to a quarrel, gently put down her cup and withdrew. Kitty did not even notice her. The tone in which her husband had said the last words wounded her, especially because he evidently did not believe what she had said.
阿加菲娅·米哈伊洛夫娜见有人吵起来，轻轻地放下杯子退了出去。基蒂甚至没有注意到她。她丈夫说最后一句话的语气伤害了她，特别是因为他显然不相信她说的话。

‘I tell you, that if you go, I shall come with you; I shall certainly come,’ she said hastily and wrathfully. ‘Why out of the question? Why do you say it’s out of the question?’
‘我告诉你，如果你走，我就跟你一起去；我一定会来的。”她急忙而愤怒地说。 ‘为什么不可能呢？你为什么说这是不可能的？

‘Because it’ll be going God knows where, by all sorts of roads and to all sorts of hotels. You would be a hindrance to me,’ said Levin, trying to be cool.
“因为天知道它会开往哪里，经过各种道路，开往各种酒店。你会成为我的障碍。”莱文说，努力保持冷静。

‘Not at all. I don’t want anything. Where you can go, I can....’
'一点也不。我什么都不想要。你能去的地方，我也能……”

‘Well, for one thing then, because this woman’s there whom you can’t meet.’
“好吧，一方面，因为这个女人就在那里，但你却见不到。”

‘I don’t know and don’t care to know who’s there and what. I know that my husband’s brother is dying and my husband is going to him, and I go with my husband too....’
“我不知道也不想知道谁在那儿、发生了什么。我知道我丈夫的兄弟快要死了，我丈夫要去他那里，我也跟着我丈夫去……”

‘Kitty! Don’t get angry. But just think a little: this is a matter of such importance that I can’t bear to think that you should bring in a feeling of weakness, of dislike to being left alone. Come, you’ll be dull alone, so go and stay at Moscow a little.’
'猫咪！别生气。但想一想：这是一件如此重要的事情，以至于我不忍心认为你应该带来一种软弱的感觉，一种不喜欢独自一人的感觉。来吧，你一个人会无聊的，所以去莫斯科呆一会儿吧。

‘There, you always ascribe base, vile motives to me,’ she said with tears of wounded pride and fury. ‘I didn’t mean, it wasn’t weakness, it wasn’t...I feel that it’s my duty to be with my husband when he’s in trouble, but you try on purpose to hurt me, you try on purpose not to understand....’
“你们总是把卑鄙、邪恶的动机归咎于我，”她带着受伤的骄傲和愤怒的泪水说道。 “我不是说，这不是软弱，不是……我觉得当我的丈夫遇到麻烦时，我有责任陪伴他，但你故意伤害我，你不是故意的去理解……”

‘No; this is awful! To be such a slave!’ cried Levin, getting up, and unable to restrain his anger any longer. But at the same second he felt that he was beating himself.
'不;这太糟糕了！竟成了这样的奴隶！”列文站了起来，再也无法抑制自己的愤怒，大声喊道。但就在同一时刻，他感觉自己在打败自己。

‘Then why did you marry? You could have been free. Why did you, if you regret it?’ she said, getting up and running away into the drawing room.
‘那你为什么结婚？你本来可以自由的。如果你后悔的话，你为什么要这么做呢？”她说着，站起身来，跑进了客厅。

When he went to her, she was sobbing.
当他走向她时，她正在抽泣。

He began to speak, trying to find words not to dissuade but simply to soothe her. But she did not heed him, and would not agree to anything. He bent down to her and took her hand, which resisted him. He kissed her hand, kissed her hair, kissed her hand again—still she was silent. But when he took her face in both his hands and said ‘Kitty!’ she suddenly recovered herself, and began to cry, and they were reconciled.
他开始说话，试图找到不是劝阻而是只是安抚她的话。但她没有理会他，也不会同意任何事情。他向她弯下腰，握住她的手，但她的手抗拒着他。他吻了她的手，吻了她的头发，又吻了她的手——她还是一言不发。但当他双手捧住她的脸并喊出“基蒂！”时，她突然恢复了平静，开始哭泣，于是他们和解了。

It was decided that they should go together the next day. Levin told his wife that he believed she wanted to go simply in order to be of use, agreed that Marya Nikolaevna’s being with his brother did not make her going improper, but he set off at the bottom of his heart dissatisfied both with her and with himself. He was dissatisfied with her for being unable to make up her mind to let him go when it was necessary (and how strange it was for him to think that he, so lately hardly daring to believe in such happiness as that she could love him—now was unhappy because she loved him too much!), and he was dissatisfied with himself for not showing more strength of will. Even greater was the feeling of disagreement at the bottom of his heart as to her not needing to consider the woman who was with his brother, and he thought with horror of all the contingencies they might meet with. The mere idea of his wife, his Kitty, being in the same room with a common wench, set him shuddering with horror and loathing.
决定第二天一起去。列文告诉他的妻子，他相信她想去只是为了有用，同意玛丽亚·尼古拉耶芙娜和他哥哥在一起并没有让她变得不合适，但他从心底出发，对她和他的兄弟都不满意。他自己。他对她不满，因为她在必要时却无法下定决心放开他（而他想到他最近几乎不敢相信她能爱他这样的幸福，这是多么奇怪——现在不高兴是因为她太爱他了！），他对自己没有表现出更多的意志力感到不满。更强烈的是，他内心深处的不同意感是，她不需要考虑和他哥哥在一起的女人，他惊恐地想到他们可能会遇到的各种意外情况。一想到他的妻子，他的凯蒂，和一个普通的妓女在同一个房间，他就因恐惧和厌恶而颤抖。

Chapter 17
第17章

The hotel of the provincial town where Nikolay Levin was lying ill was one of those provincial hotels which are constructed on the newest model of modern improvements, with the best intentions of cleanliness, comfort, and even elegance, but owing to the public that patronizes them, are with astounding rapidity transformed into filthy taverns with a pretension of modern improvement that only makes them worse than the old-fashioned, honestly filthy hotels. This hotel had already reached that stage, and the soldier in a filthy uniform smoking in the entry, supposed to stand for a hall-porter, and the cast-iron, slippery, dark, and disagreeable staircase, and the free and easy waiter in a filthy frock coat, and the common dining room with a dusty bouquet of wax flowers adorning the table, and filth, dust, and disorder everywhere, and at the same time the sort of modern up-to-date self-complacent railway uneasiness of this hotel, aroused a most painful feeling in Levin after their fresh young life, especially because the impression of falsity made by the hotel was so out of keeping with what awaited them.
尼古拉·莱文（Nikolay Levin）生病所在的省级城镇的酒店是那些采用最新的现代改进模式建造的省级酒店之一，其初衷是清洁、舒适甚至优雅，但由于光顾它们的公众，以惊人的速度转变为肮脏的小酒馆，假装现代化的改进，这只会让它们比老式的、真正肮脏的酒店更糟糕。这家酒店已经到了这个地步，入口处穿着脏兮兮的制服抽烟的士兵，应该是门房，铸铁的、湿滑的、阴暗的、令人不舒服的楼梯，还有里面洒脱的侍者。肮脏的长袍，公共餐厅的桌子上装饰着一束落满灰尘的蜡花，到处都是污秽、灰尘和混乱，同时还有现代现代铁路上那种自满的不安感。这家旅馆给莱文带来了一种最痛苦的感觉，因为他们刚刚度过了年轻的生活，特别是因为这家旅馆给人的虚假印象与等待着他们的东西是如此不相符。

As is invariably the case, after they had been asked at what price they wanted rooms, it appeared that there was not one decent room for them; one decent room had been taken by the inspector of railroads, another by a lawyer from Moscow, a third by Princess Astafieva from the country. There remained only one filthy room, next to which they promised that another should be empty by the evening. Feeling angry with his wife because what he had expected had come to pass, which was that at the moment of arrival, when his heart throbbed with emotion and anxiety to know how his brother was getting on, he should have to be seeing after her, instead of rushing straight to his brother, Levin conducted her to the room assigned them.
与往常一样，当他们被问到想要什么价格的房间后，似乎没有一间像样的房间适合他们；一间像样的房间被铁路检查员占用了，另一间被莫斯科的律师占用了，第三间被来自该国的阿斯塔菲耶娃公主占用了。只剩下一间肮脏的房间，他们承诺到晚上另一间房间就会空出来。对他的妻子感到生气，因为他所期望的事情已经发生了，那就是在到达的那一刻，当他的心因激动和焦虑而跳动，想知道他的兄弟过得怎么样时，他应该照顾她，莱文没有直接冲向他的兄弟，而是将她带到了分配给他们的房间。

‘Go, do go!’ she said, looking at him with timid and guilty eyes.
“走吧，一定要走！”她用胆怯而内疚的眼神看着他。

He went out of the door without a word, and at once stumbled over Marya Nikolaevna, who had heard of his arrival and had not dared to go in to see him. She was just the same as when he saw her in Moscow; the same woolen gown, and bare arms and neck, and the same good-naturedly stupid, pockmarked face, only a little plumper.
他一言不发地出了门，立刻被玛丽亚·尼古拉耶夫娜绊倒，她听说他来了，却不敢进去见他。她和他在莫斯科见到她时一模一样；同样的羊毛长袍，裸露的手臂和脖子，还有同样善良、愚蠢、麻子的脸，只是胖了一点。

‘Well, how is he? how is he?’
‘嗯，他怎么样？他怎么样？'

‘Very bad. He can’t get up. He has kept expecting you. He.... Are you...with your wife?’
'很坏。他起不来。他一直在期待着你。他……你……和你的妻子在一起吗？

Levin did not for the first moment understand what it was confused her, but she immediately enlightened him.
莱文一开始不明白她的困惑是什么，但她立即启发了他。

‘I’ll go away. I’ll go down to the kitchen,’ she brought out. ‘Nikolay Dmitrievitch will be delighted. He heard about it, and knows your lady, and remembers her abroad.’
‘我这就走。我要去厨房，”她说道。 “尼古拉·德米特里耶维奇会很高兴的。他听说了这件事，认识你的女士，还记得她在国外。”

Levin realized that she meant his wife, and did not know what answer to make.
莱文意识到她指的是他的妻子，不知道该作何回答。

‘Come along, come along to him!’ he said.
“来吧，到他那里去！”他说。

But as soon as he moved, the door of his room opened and Kitty peeped out. Levin crimsoned both from shame and anger with his wife, who had put herself and him in such a difficult position; but Marya Nikolaevna crimsoned still more. She positively shrank together and flushed to the point of tears, and clutching the ends of her apron in both hands, twisted them in her red fingers without knowing what to say and what to do.
但他刚一动身，他的房间门就打开了，凯蒂探出头来。莱文对他的妻子感到既羞愧又愤怒，因为她把自己和他置于如此困难的境地。但玛丽亚·尼古拉耶芙娜的脸更红了。她浑身瑟瑟发抖，满脸通红，泪流满面，双手抓着围裙的末端，用红红的手指绞着，不知道该说什么，该做什么。

For the first instant Levin saw an expression of eager curiosity in the eyes with which Kitty looked at this awful woman, so incomprehensible to her; but it lasted only a single instant.
莱文第一次看到基蒂看着这个可怕的女人的眼睛里流露出强烈的好奇心，她是那么难以理解。但这只持续了一瞬间。

‘Well! how is he?’ she turned to her husband and then to her.
'出色地！他怎么样？”她转向她的丈夫，然后转向她。

‘But one can’t go on talking in the passage like this!’ Levin said, looking angrily at a gentleman who walked jauntily at that instant across the corridor, as though about his affairs.
“但是一个人不能再这样在过道里说话了！”莱文愤怒地看着一位绅士，此刻他正得意洋洋地穿过走廊，好像在谈论他的事情。

‘Well then, come in,’ said Kitty, turning to Marya Nikolaevna, who had recovered herself, but noticing her husband’s face of dismay, ‘or go on; go, and then come for me,’ she said, and went back into the room.
“那么，进来吧，”基蒂转向玛丽亚·尼古拉耶夫娜说道，玛丽亚·尼古拉耶夫娜已经恢复了平静，但她注意到她丈夫一脸沮丧，“或者继续吧；因为她已经恢复了。”走吧，然后来找我。”她说着就回到了房间。

Levin went to his brother’s room. He had not in the least expected what he saw and felt in his brother’s room. He had expected to find him in the same state of self-deception which he had heard was so frequent with the consumptive, and which had struck him so much during his brother’s visit in the autumn. He had expected to find the physical signs of the approach of death more marked—greater weakness, greater emaciation, but still almost the same condition of things. He had expected himself to feel the same distress at the loss of the brother he loved and the same horror in face of death as he had felt then, only in a greater degree. And he had prepared himself for this; but he found something utterly different.
莱文去了他哥哥的房间。他完全没有预料到自己在哥哥房间里看到的、感受到的一切。他原以为他会陷入同样的​​自欺欺人的状态，这种自欺欺人的状态在他听说的痨病患者中很常见，在他哥哥秋天来访时，这种自欺欺人的状态给他留下了深刻的印象。他原以为死亡临近的身体迹​​象会更加明显——更加虚弱，更加憔悴，但情况仍然几乎相同。他原以为自己会像当时一样因失去所爱的兄弟而感到痛苦，面对死亡时也会感到同样的恐惧，只是程度更大。他已经为此做好了准备；但他发现了一些完全不同的东西。

In a little dirty room with the painted panels of its walls filthy with spittle, and conversation audible through the thin partition from the next room, in a stifling atmosphere saturated with impurities, on a bedstead moved away from the wall, there lay covered with a quilt, a body. One arm of this body was above the quilt, and the wrist, huge as a rake-handle, was attached, inconceivably it seemed, to the thin, long bone of the arm smooth from the beginning to the middle. The head lay sideways on the pillow. Levin could see the scanty locks wet with sweat on the temples and tense, transparent-looking forehead.
一间脏兮兮的小房间里，墙上的油漆板沾满了唾沫，隔着薄薄的隔板，隔壁房间里传来谈话声，空气中弥漫着杂质，令人窒息，一张从墙上移开的床架上，铺着一张床。被子，身体。这具身体的一只手臂在被子之上，粗如耙柄的手腕不可思议地附着在手臂细长的骨头上，从头到尾都光滑。头侧靠在枕头上。莱文可以看到太阳穴上被汗水浸湿的稀少的头发和紧张而透明的额头。

‘It cannot be that that fearful body was my brother Nikolay?’ thought Levin. But he went closer, saw the face, and doubt became impossible. In spite of the terrible change in the face, Levin had only to glance at those eager eyes raised at his approach, only to catch the faint movement of the mouth under the sticky mustache, to realize the terrible truth that this death-like body was his living brother.
“那具可怕的尸体不可能是我弟弟尼古拉吧？”列文想道。但他走近了，看到了那张脸，怀疑就变得不可能了。尽管脸色发生了可怕的变化，莱文只要看了一眼那双因他走近而抬起的热切的眼睛，只看到粘糊糊的小胡子下嘴角微弱的动作，就意识到这个可怕的事实：这具死亡般的身体是他活着的兄弟。

The glittering eyes looked sternly and reproachfully at his brother as he drew near. And immediately this glance established a living relationship between living men. Levin immediately felt the reproach in the eyes fixed on him, and felt remorse at his own happiness.
当他走近时，那双闪闪发光的眼睛严厉而责备地看着他的兄弟。这一瞥立刻就在活着的人之间建立了一种生动的关系。莱文顿时感觉到责备的目光注视着自己，同时也为自己的幸福感到懊悔。

When Konstantin took him by the hand, Nikolay smiled. The smile was faint, scarcely perceptible, and in spite of the smile the stern expression of the eyes was unchanged.
当康斯坦丁握住他的手时，尼古拉笑了。笑容很淡，几乎难以察觉，虽然笑容可掬，但眼神中的严厉却没有丝毫改变。

‘You did not expect to find me like this,’ he articulated with effort.
“你没想到会以这样的方式找到我。”他努力地说道。

‘Yes...no,’ said Levin, hesitating over his words. ‘How was it you didn’t let me know before, that is, at the time of my wedding? I made inquiries in all directions.’
“是……不是，”莱文犹豫着要说什么。 “你之前怎么没让我知道，也就是说，在我结婚的时候？”我向各个方向进行了询问。

He had to talk so as not to be silent, and he did not know what to say, especially as his brother made no reply, and simply stared without dropping his eyes, and evidently penetrated to the inner meaning of each word. Levin told his brother that his wife had come with him. Nikolay expressed pleasure, but said he was afraid of frightening her by his condition. A silence followed. Suddenly Nikolay stirred, and began to say something. Levin expected something of peculiar gravity and importance from the expression of his face, but Nikolay began speaking of his health. He found fault with the doctor, regretting he had not a celebrated Moscow doctor. Levin saw that he still hoped.
他必须要说话才能不沉默，而他又不知道该说什么，尤其是他的哥哥没有回答，只是目不转睛地盯着，显然已经洞悉了每一个字的内在含义。莱文告诉他的兄弟，他的妻子和他一起来了。尼古拉表示很高兴，但他说他担心自己的状况吓到她。接下来是一阵沉默。突然尼古拉动了动，开始说些什么。莱文预计他脸上的表情会显得特别严肃和重要，但尼古拉开始谈论他的健康状况。他对医生吹毛求疵，遗憾自己没有一位莫斯科著名的医生。莱文看出他仍然抱有希望。

Seizing the first moment of silence, Levin got up, anxious to escape, if only for an instant, from his agonizing emotion, and said that he would go and fetch his wife.
抓住这片刻的沉默，莱文站了起来，急于摆脱痛苦的情绪，哪怕只是一瞬间，他说他要去接他的妻子。

‘Very well, and I’ll tell her to tidy up here. It’s dirty and stinking here, I expect. Marya! clear up the room,’ the sick man said with effort. ‘Oh, and when you’ve cleared up, go away yourself,’ he added, looking inquiringly at his brother.
“很好，我会告诉她把这里收拾干净。”我想这里又脏又臭。玛丽亚！清理一下房间。”病人努力地说。 “哦，等你收拾好了，你自己走吧，”他补充道，询问地看着他的兄弟。

Levin made no answer. Going out into the corridor, he stopped short. He had said he would fetch his wife, but now, taking stock of the emotion he was feeling, he decided that he would try on the contrary to persuade her not to go in to the sick man. ‘Why should she suffer as I am suffering?’ he thought.
莱文没有回答。走到走廊里，他突然停了下来。他曾说过他会去接他的妻子，但现在，考虑到自己的情绪，他决定相反地尝试劝说她不要去看病人。 “为什么她要像我一样受苦呢？”他想。

‘Well, how is he?’ Kitty asked with a frightened face.
“那么，他怎么样了？”基蒂一脸惊恐地问道。

‘Oh, it’s awful, it’s awful! What did you come for?’ said Levin.
‘啊，太可怕了，太可怕了！ “你来干什么？”莱文说。

Kitty was silent for a few seconds, looking timidly and ruefully at her husband; then she went up and took him by the elbow with both hands.
基蒂沉默了几秒钟，胆怯而悲伤地看着她的丈夫。然后她走上前去，用双手抓住他的肘部。

‘Kostya! take me to him; it will be easier for us to bear it together. You only take me, take me to him, please, and go away,’ she said. ‘You must understand that for me to see you, and not to see him, is far more painful. There I might be a help to you and to him. Please, let me!’ she besought her husband, as though the happiness of her life depended on it.
‘克斯特亚！带我去见他；我们会更容易共同承受。你只需带我，带我去找他，然后走开，”她说。 ‘你必须明白，对我来说，见到你，而不是见到他，要痛苦得多。在那里我可能会对你和他有所帮助。求你了，让我来吧！”她恳求她的丈夫，仿佛她一生的幸福都取决于此。

Levin was obliged to agree, and regaining his composure, and completely forgetting about Marya Nikolaevna by now, he went again in to his brother with Kitty.
列文不得不同意，恢复了镇静，现在完全忘记了玛丽亚·尼古拉耶芙娜，他又带着基蒂到他哥哥那里去。

Stepping lightly, and continually glancing at her husband, showing him a valorous and sympathetic face, Kitty went into the sick-room, and, turning without haste, noiselessly closed the door. With inaudible steps she went quickly to the sick man’s bedside, and going up so that he had not to turn his head, she immediately clasped in her fresh young hand the skeleton of his huge hand, pressed it, and began speaking with that soft eagerness, sympathetic and not jarring, which is peculiar to women.
基蒂迈着轻快的步伐，不断地扫视丈夫，露出英勇而同情的表情，走进病房，不慌不忙地转身，无声无息地关上了门。她迈着听不见的脚步快步走到病人的床边，走上前去，这样他就不用转头了，她立即用她年轻的小手抓住了他大手的骨架，按了按，开始用那种温柔的热切说话。 ，同情而不刺耳，这是女性所特有的。

‘We have met, though we were not acquainted, at Soden,’ she said. ‘You never thought I was to be your sister?’
“我们在索登见过面，尽管我们并不熟悉，”她说。 “你从来没有想过我会成为你的妹妹吗？”

‘You would not have recognized me?’ he said, with a radiant smile at her entrance.
“你不会认出我吧？”他在她进来时带着灿烂的微笑说道。

‘Yes, I should. What a good thing you let us know! Not a day has passed that Kostya has not mentioned you, and been anxious.’
是的，我应该这样做。你让我们知道真是太好了！克斯特亚没有一天没有提到你，而且很焦虑。

But the sick man’s interest did not last long.
但病人的兴趣并没有持续多久。

Before she had finished speaking, there had come back into his face the stern, reproachful expression of the dying man’s envy of the living.
她的话还没说完，他的脸上又出现了临终者对生者的嫉妒的严厉、责备的表情。

‘I am afraid you are not quite comfortable here,’ she said, turning away from his fixed stare, and looking about the room. ‘We must ask about another room,’ she said to her husband, ‘so that we might be nearer.’
“恐怕你在这里不太舒服，”她说，从他固定的目光中转开，环顾房间。 “我们必须询问另一个房间，”她对丈夫说，“这样我们就可以离得近一些。”

Chapter 18
第18章

Levin could not look calmly at his brother; he could not himself be natural and calm in his presence. When he went in to the sick man, his eyes and his attention were unconsciously dimmed, and he did not see and did not distinguish the details of his brother’s position. He smelt the awful odor, saw the dirt, disorder, and miserable condition, and heard the groans, and felt that nothing could be done to help. It never entered his head to analyze the details of the sick man’s situation, to consider how that body was lying under the quilt, how those emaciated legs and thighs and spine were lying huddled up, and whether they could not be made more comfortable, whether anything could not be done to make things, if not better, at least less bad. It made his blood run cold when he began to think of all these details. He was absolutely convinced that nothing could be done to prolong his brother’s life or to relieve his suffering. But a sense of his regarding all aid as out of the question was felt by the sick man, and exasperated him. And this made it still more painful for Levin. To be in the sick-room was agony to him, not to be there still worse. And he was continually, on various pretexts, going out of the room, and coming in again, because he was unable to remain alone.
莱文无法平静地看着他的兄弟；在他面前，他自己无法表现得自然而平静。当他走进病人身边时，他的目光和注意力都不知不觉地变暗了，没有看到也没有分辨出弟弟所在位置的细节。他闻到了难闻的气味，看到了肮脏、混乱和悲惨的状况，听到了呻吟声，感到无能为力。他从来没有想到去分析病人的具体情况，考虑那具尸体是如何躺在被子下的，那些瘦弱的腿、大腿和脊椎是如何蜷缩起来的，以及是否不能让它们变得更舒服，是否可以。没有什么办法可以让事情变得更好，至少也不会那么糟糕。当他开始思考这些细节时，他的血液都变冷了。他坚信，无论做什么都无法延长他兄弟的生命或减轻他的痛苦。但病人感觉到他认为所有的援助都是不可能的，这让他很恼火。这让莱文更加痛苦。待在病房里对他来说是痛苦的，不待在那里更痛苦。他不断地以各种借口走出房间，然后又进来，因为他无法一个人呆着。

But Kitty thought, and felt, and acted quite differently. On seeing the sick man, she pitied him. And pity in her womanly heart did not arouse at all that feeling of horror and loathing that it aroused in her husband, but a desire to act, to find out all the details of his state, and to remedy them. And since she had not the slightest doubt that it was her duty to help him, she had no doubt either that it was possible, and immediately set to work. The very details, the mere thought of which reduced her husband to terror, immediately engaged her attention. She sent for the doctor, sent to the chemist’s, set the maid who had come with her and Marya Nikolaevna to sweep and dust and scrub; she herself washed up something, washed out something else, laid something under the quilt. Something was by her directions brought into the sick-room, something else was carried out. She herself went several times to her room, regardless of the men she met in the corridor, got out and brought in sheets, pillow cases, towels, and shirts.
但基蒂的想法、感受和行为却截然不同。当她看到这个病人时，她很同情他。她女人心中的怜悯并没有像她丈夫那样引起恐惧和厌恶，而是渴望采取行动，查明他的处境的所有细节，并加以补救。因为她毫不怀疑帮助他是她的责任，所以她也毫不怀疑这是可能的，并立即开始工作。这些细节，一想到就让她的丈夫感到恐惧，立刻引起了她的注意。她派人去请医生，去药店，让随她而来的女仆和玛丽亚·尼古拉耶芙娜打扫房间，掸去灰尘，擦洗干净。她自己洗了一些东西，又洗了一些东西，又在被子下面放了一些东西。根据她的指示，有些东西被带进了病房，有些东西也被运走了。她自己也多次进自己的房间，不顾走廊里遇到的男人，下车拿来床单、枕套、毛巾和衬衫。

The waiter, who was busy with a party of engineers dining in the dining hall, came several times with an irate countenance in answer to her summons, and could not avoid carrying out her orders, as she gave them with such gracious insistence that there was no evading her. Levin did not approve of all this; he did not believe it would be of any good to the patient. Above all, he feared the patient would be angry at it. But the sick man, though he seemed and was indifferent about it, was not angry, but only abashed, and on the whole as it were interested in what she was doing with him. Coming back from the doctor to whom Kitty had sent him, Levin, on opening the door, came upon the sick man at the instant when, by Kitty’s directions, they were changing his linen. The long white ridge of his spine, with the huge, prominent shoulder blades and jutting ribs and vertebrae, was bare, and Marya Nikolaevna and the waiter were struggling with the sleeve of the night shirt, and could not get the long, limp arm into it. Kitty, hurriedly closing the door after Levin, was not looking that way; but the sick man groaned, and she moved rapidly towards him.
餐厅里正忙着招待一帮工程师就餐的服务员，好几次都带着愤怒的表情来应她的召唤，并且无法避免执行她的命令，因为她如此客气地坚持要求他们有没有躲避她。莱文并不赞同这一切。他不相信这对病人有任何好处。最重要的是，他担心病人会对此生气。但病人虽然看起来并对此漠不关心，但他并没有生气，只是感到羞愧，总的来说，它对她和他一起做的事情很感兴趣。莱文从基蒂派他去见的医生那里回来后，一打开门，就看到了病人，当时他们按照基蒂的指示，正在给他换床单。他的脊椎长长的白色脊骨，巨大而突出的肩胛骨，突出的肋骨和椎骨，都裸露着，玛丽亚·尼古拉耶夫娜和侍者正在努力拉睡衣的袖子，无法将又长又软的手臂伸进去。它。基蒂在莱文身后匆匆关上门，但她并没有朝那个方向看。但病人呻吟了一声，她迅速朝他走去。

‘Make haste,’ she said.
“快点，”她说。

‘Oh, don’t you come,’ said the sick man angrily. ‘I’ll do it my myself....’
“哦，你别来，”病人生气地说。 「我自己来做吧……」

‘What say?’ queried Marya Nikolaevna. But Kitty heard and saw he was ashamed and uncomfortable at being naked before her.
“说什么？”玛丽亚·尼古拉耶夫娜问道。但基蒂听到并看到他因在她面前赤身裸体而感到羞愧和不舒服。

‘I’m not looking, I’m not looking!’ she said, putting the arm in. ‘Marya Nikolaevna, you come this side, you do it,’ she added.
“我没看，我没看！”她一边说，一边把手伸了进去。“玛丽亚·尼古拉耶夫娜，你到这边来，你就这么做，”她补充道。

‘Please go for me, there’s a little bottle in my small bag,’ she said, turning to her husband, ‘you know, in the side pocket; bring it, please, and meanwhile they’ll finish clearing up here.’
“请帮我吧，我的小包里有一个小瓶子，”她转向她的丈夫说，“你知道，在侧袋里；”请把它带来，同时他们会完成这里的清理工作。”

Returning with the bottle, Levin found the sick man settled comfortably and everything about him completely changed. The heavy smell was replaced by the smell of aromatic vinegar, which Kitty with pouting lips and puffed-out, rosy cheeks was squirting through a little pipe. There was no dust visible anywhere, a rug was laid by the bedside. On the table stood medicine bottles and decanters tidily arranged, and the linen needed was folded up there, and Kitty’s broderie anglaise. On the other table by the patient’s bed there were candles and drink and powders. The sick man himself, washed and combed, lay in clean sheets on high raised pillows, in a clean night-shirt with a white collar about his astoundingly thin neck, and with a new expression of hope looked fixedly at Kitty.
莱文带着瓶子回来，发现病人舒服地安顿下来，他的一切都完全改变了。浓重的气味被芳香的醋味所取代，基蒂撅起嘴唇，红润的脸颊从一根小管子里喷出来。到处都看不到灰尘，床边铺着地毯。桌子上整齐地摆放着药瓶和醒酒器，所需的亚麻布折叠在那里，还有基蒂的英国刺绣。病人床边的另一张桌子上有蜡烛、饮料和粉末。病人本人已经洗漱、梳理过，躺在干净的床单上，垫在高高的枕头上，穿着干净的睡衣，瘦得惊人的脖子上挂着白领子，带着一种新的希望的表情盯着基蒂。

The doctor brought by Levin, and found by him at the club, was not the one who had been attending Nikolay Levin, as the patient was dissatisfied with him. The new doctor took up a stethoscope and sounded the patient, shook his head, prescribed medicine, and with extreme minuteness explained first how to take the medicine and then what diet was to be kept to. He advised eggs, raw or hardly cooked, and seltzer water, with warm milk at a certain temperature. When the doctor had gone away the sick man said something to his brother, of which Levin could distinguish only the last words: ‘Your Katya.’ By the expression with which he gazed at her, Levin saw that he was praising her. He called indeed to Katya, as he called her.
莱文带来的、他在俱乐部找到的医生并不是尼古拉·莱文的主治医生，因为病人对他不满意。新医生拿起听诊器给病人听诊，摇摇头，开了药，极其细致地先说明了如何服药，然后又说明了饮食要注意什么。他建议生鸡蛋或半熟鸡蛋、苏打水和一定温度的温牛奶。医生走后，病人对他的兄弟说了些什么，列文只能听出最后几个字：“你的卡蒂亚。”从他凝视她的表情，列文看出他在称赞她。他确实在呼唤卡蒂亚，就像他这样称呼她一样。

‘I’m much better already,’ he said. ‘Why, with you I should have got well long ago. How nice it is!’ he took her hand and drew it towards his lips, but as though afraid she would dislike it he changed his mind, let it go, and only stroked it. Kitty took his hand in both hers and pressed it.
“我已经好多了，”他说。 ‘哎呀，有你在，我早就该好起来了。多好呀！”他拉起她的手，将它拉向自己的唇边，但仿佛生怕她不喜欢，他又改变了主意，放开了它，只是抚摸着它。基蒂握住他的手并按了按。

‘Now turn me over on the left side and go to bed,’ he said.
“现在把我翻到左边去睡觉，”他说。

No one could make out what he said but Kitty; she alone understood. She understood because she was all the while mentally keeping watch on what he needed.
除了基蒂之外，没有人能听懂他说的话。只有她一个人明白。她理解，因为她一直在精神上关注着他的需要。

‘On the other side,’ she said to her husband, ‘he always sleeps on that side. Turn him over, it’s so disagreeable calling the servants. I’m not strong enough. Can you?’ she said to Marya Nikolaevna.
“在另一边，”她对丈夫说，“他总是睡在那一边。”把他翻过来，叫仆人真是太不爽了。我还不够坚强。你可以吗？”她对玛丽亚·尼古拉耶夫娜说。

‘I’m afraid not,’ answered Marya Nikolaevna.
“恐怕不是，”玛丽亚·尼古拉耶夫娜回答。

Terrible as it was to Levin to put his arms round that terrible body, to take hold of that under the quilt, of which he preferred to know nothing, under his wife’s influence he made his resolute face that she knew so well, and putting his arms into the bed took hold of the body, but in spite of his own strength he was struck by the strange heaviness of those powerless limbs. While he was turning him over, conscious of the huge emaciated arm about his neck, Kitty swiftly and noiselessly turned the pillow, beat it up and settled in it the sick man’s head, smoothing back his hair, which was sticking again to his moist brow.
尽管莱文用双臂搂住那可怕的身体，抓住被子下的那具可怕的东西，他宁愿对它一无所知，但在妻子的影响下，他做出了她熟悉的坚决的表情，并把他的手臂伸进床上，抓住了身体，但尽管他自己有力量，他还是被那些无力的四肢所产生的奇怪的沉重感震惊了。当他把他翻过来的时候，基蒂意识到那条巨大的瘦弱手臂搂着他的脖子，她迅速而无声地转动枕头，把它敲打起来，把病人的头放在里面，抚平他的头发，头发又粘在他潮湿的额头上。 。

The sick man kept his brother’s hand in his own. Levin felt that he meant to do something with his hand and was pulling it somewhere. Levin yielded with a sinking heart: yes, he drew it to his mouth and kissed it. Levin, shaking with sobs and unable to articulate a word, went out of the room.
病人握住他兄弟的手。莱文觉得他打算用手做点什么，然后把它拉到某个地方。莱文心一沉，屈服了：是的，他把它拉到嘴边吻了吻。莱文抽泣着，浑身发抖，说不出话来，走出了房间。

Chapter 19
第19章

‘Thou hast hid these things from the wise and prudent, and hast revealed them unto babes.’ So Levin thought about his wife as he talked to her that evening.
“你把这些事向聪明人和通达者隐藏起来，却向婴儿显露出来。”那天晚上，莱文在与妻子交谈时，想起了她。

Levin thought of the text, not because he considered himself ‘wise and prudent.’ He did not so consider himself, but he could not help knowing that he had more intellect than his wife and Agafea Mihalovna, and he could not help knowing that when he thought of death, he thought with all the force of his intellect. He knew too that the brains of many great men, whose thoughts he had read, had brooded over death and yet knew not a hundredth part of what his wife and Agafea Mihalovna knew about it. Different as those two women were, Agafea Mihalovna and Katya, as his brother Nikolay had called her, and as Levin particularly liked to call her now, they were quite alike in this. Both knew, without a shade of doubt, what sort of thing life was and what was death, and though neither of them could have answered, and would even not have understood the questions that presented themselves to Levin, both had no doubt of the significance of this event, and were precisely alike in their way of looking at it, which they shared with millions of people. The proof that they knew for a certainty the nature of death lay in the fact that they knew without a second of hesitation how to deal with the dying, and were not frightened of them. Levin and other men like him, though they could have said a great deal about death, obviously did not know this since they were afraid of death, and were absolutely at a loss what to do when people were dying. If Levin had been alone now with his brother Nikolay, he would have looked at him with terror, and with still greater terror waited, and would not have known what else to do.
列文想到这段文字，并不是因为他认为自己“明智而谨慎”。他并不这么认为，但他不禁知道自己比他的妻子和阿加菲娅·米哈伊洛芙娜更有智慧，而且他不禁知道，当他想到了死亡，他用尽全力思考。他还知道，他读过许多伟人的思想，他们的大脑都在思考死亡，但他对死亡的了解还不及他的妻子和阿加菲娅·米哈伊洛芙娜的百分之一。阿加菲娅·米哈伊洛夫娜和卡佳（他的兄弟尼古拉这样称呼她，莱文现在特别喜欢这样称呼她）虽然这两个女人不同，但她们在这一点上却很相似。毫无疑问，两人都知道生命是什么，死亡是什么，虽然他们都无法回答，甚至无法理解向莱文提出的问题，但两人都毫不怀疑其意义他们对这一事件的看法非常相似，并且与数百万人分享了这一点。他们确信死亡的本质的证据在于，他们毫不犹豫地知道如何对待临终者，并且不害怕他们。莱文和其他像他一样的人，虽然可以对死亡说很多，但显然不知道这一点，因为他们害怕死亡，当人们濒临死亡时，他们完全不知所措。如果列文现在单独和他的兄弟尼古拉在一起，他一定会惊恐地看着他，然后更加惊恐地等待着，不知道还能做什么。

More than that, he did not know what to say, how to look, how to move. To talk of outside things seemed to him shocking, impossible, to talk of death and depressing subjects—also impossible. To be silent, also impossible. ‘If I look at him he will think I am studying him, I am afraid; if I don’t look at him, he’ll think I’m thinking of other things. If I walk on tiptoe, he will be vexed; to tread firmly, I’m ashamed.’ Kitty evidently did not think of herself, and had no time to think about herself: she was thinking about him because she knew something, and all went well. She told him about herself even and about her wedding, and smiled and sympathized with him and petted him, and talked of cases of recovery and all went well; so then she must know. The proof that her behavior and Agafea Mihalovna’s was not instinctive, animal, irrational, was that apart from the physical treatment, the relief of suffering, both Agafea Mihalovna and Kitty required for the dying man something else more important than the physical treatment, and something which had nothing in common with physical conditions. Agafea Mihalovna, speaking of the man just dead, had said: ‘Well, thank God, he took the sacrament and received absolution; God grant each one of us such a death.’ Katya in just the same way, besides all her care about linen, bedsores, drink, found time the very first day to persuade the sick man of the necessity of taking the sacrament and receiving absolution.
更重要的是，他不知道该说什么、如何看、如何移动。在他看来，谈论外面的事情是令人震惊的、不可能的，谈论死亡和令人沮丧的话题——也是不可能的。保持沉默，也是不​​可能的。 “如果我看着他，恐怕他会认为我在研究他；如果我不看他，他就会认为我在想别的事情。如果我踮着脚尖走路，他会生气；基蒂显然没有考虑自己，也没有时间考虑自己：她考虑他是因为她知道一些事情，一切都很顺利。她甚至向他讲述了她自己和她的婚礼，微笑着同情他，抚摸着他，谈论了康复的情况，一切都很顺利；那么她一定知道。证明她的行为和阿加菲娅·米哈伊洛芙娜的行为不是本能的、动物性的、非理性的，是除了物理治疗、减轻痛苦之外，阿加菲娅·米哈伊洛芙娜和基蒂都需要为垂死的人做一些比物理治疗更重要的事情，以及一些东西。这与身体状况没有任何共同之处。阿加菲娅·米哈伊洛芙娜在谈到刚刚去世的那个人时说道：“好吧，感谢上帝，他接受了圣餐并获得了赦免；”上帝赐予我们每个人这样的死亡。”卡蒂亚以同样的方式，除了关心床单、褥疮、饮料之外，第一天就抽出时间说服病人接受圣餐和获得赦免的必要性。

On getting back from the sick-room to their own two rooms for the night, Levin sat with hanging head not knowing what to do. Not to speak of supper, of preparing for bed, of considering what they were going to do, he could not even talk to his wife; he was ashamed to. Kitty, on the contrary, was more active than usual. She was even livelier than usual. She ordered supper to be brought, herself unpacked their things, and herself helped to make the beds, and did not even forget to sprinkle them with Persian powder. She showed that alertness, that swiftness of reflection comes out in men before a battle, in conflict, in the dangerous and decisive moments of life—those moments when a man shows once and for all his value, and that all his past has not been wasted but has been a preparation for these moments.
从病房回到自己的两个房间过夜后，莱文低着头坐在那儿，不知道该怎么办。更不用说吃晚饭了，别说准备睡觉了，别说考虑他们要做什么，他甚至不能和他的妻子说话。他感到羞愧。相反，基蒂比平时更加​​活跃。她甚至比平时还要活泼。她吩咐人送晚饭来，自己打开行李，自己帮忙铺床，甚至还不忘撒上波斯粉末。她展示了男人在战斗前、冲突中、生命中危险而决定性的时刻所表现出的警觉性和敏捷性——在这些时刻，一个人一劳永逸地展示了他的全部价值，而他的所有过去都没有被遗忘。浪费了，但已经为这些时刻做好了准备。

Everything went rapidly in her hands, and before it was twelve o’clock all their things were arranged cleanly and tidily in her rooms, in such a way that the hotel rooms seemed like home: the beds were made, brushes, combs, looking-glasses were put out, table napkins were spread.
一切都在她的手中进行得很快，不到十二点，所有的东西都在她的房间里布置得干净整洁，这样酒店房间就像在家里一样：床铺好了，刷子、梳子，看起来——眼镜被拿出来，餐巾被铺开。

Levin felt that it was unpardonable to eat, to sleep, to talk even now, and it seemed to him that every movement he made was unseemly. She arranged the brushes, but she did it all so that there was nothing shocking in it.
莱文觉得即使现在吃饭、睡觉、说话都是不可原谅的，他觉得自己的每一个动作都是不体面的。她把刷子摆好，但她所做的一切都是为了让其中没有任何令人震惊的地方。

They could neither of them eat, however, and for a long while they could not sleep, and did not even go to bed.
但两人都吃不下东西，好久都睡不着，甚至没有上床睡觉。

‘I am very glad I persuaded him to receive extreme unction tomorrow,’ she said, sitting in her dressing jacket before her folding looking glass, combing her soft, fragrant hair with a fine comb. ‘I have never seen it, but I know, mamma has told me, there are prayers said for recovery.’
“我很高兴说服他明天接受临终涂油礼，”她穿着睡衣坐在折叠式镜子前，用细梳子梳理着柔软芬芳的头发。 “我从来没有见过它，但我知道，妈妈告诉我，有人在祈祷康复。”

‘Do you suppose he can possibly recover?’ said Levin, watching a slender tress at the back of her round little head that was continually hidden when she passed the comb through the front.
“你觉得他能康复吗？”莱文一边说，一边看着她圆圆的小脑袋后面的一缕细长的头发，当她把梳子从前面梳过时，那缕头发一直隐藏着。

‘I asked the doctor; he said he couldn’t live more than three days. But can they be sure? I’m very glad, anyway, that I persuaded him,’ she said, looking askance at her husband through her hair. ‘Anything is possible,’ she added with that peculiar, rather sly expression that was always in her face when she spoke of religion.
“我问过医生；他说他活不过三天。但他们能确定吗？不管怎样，我很高兴我说服了他，”她说，透过头发斜视着她的丈夫。 “一切皆有可能，”她补充道，脸上带着一种奇特而狡猾的表情，当她谈到宗教时，脸上总是带着这种表情。

Since their conversation about religion when they were engaged neither of them had ever started a discussion of the subject, but she performed all the ceremonies of going to church, saying her prayers, and so on, always with the unvarying conviction that this ought to be so. In spite of his assertion to the contrary, she was firmly persuaded that he was as much a Christian as she, and indeed a far better one; and all that he said about it was simply one of his absurd masculine freaks, just as he would say about her broderie anglaise that good people patch holes, but that she cut them on purpose, and so on.
自从他们订婚时谈论宗教以来，他们都没有开始讨论这个话题，但她主持了所有去教堂的仪式，祈祷等等，始终坚信这应该是所以。尽管他的说法与此相反，但她坚信他和她一样是一名基督徒，而且确实比她好得多。他所说的一切都只是他荒谬的男性怪胎之一，就像他会说她的英国刺绣，好人修补漏洞，但她故意剪掉它们，等等。

‘Yes, you see this woman, Marya Nikolaevna, did not know how to manage all this,’ said Levin. ‘And...I must own I’m very, very glad you came. You are such purity that....’ He took her hand and did not kiss it (to kiss her hand in such closeness to death seemed to him improper); he merely squeezed it with a penitent air, looking at her brightening eyes.
“是的，你看这个女人，玛丽亚·尼古拉耶夫娜，不知道如何处理这一切，”莱文说。 “而且……我必须承认，我非常非常高兴你来了。你是如此纯洁，以至于……’他握住她的手，但没有亲吻它（如此接近死亡地亲吻她的手，在他看来是不合适的）；他只是带着忏悔的神情捏了捏它，看着她明亮的眼睛。

‘It would have been miserable for you to be alone,’ she said, and lifting her hands which hid her cheeks flushing with pleasure, twisted her coil of hair on the nape of her neck and pinned it there. ‘No,’ she went on, ‘she did not know how.... Luckily, I learned a lot at Soden.’
“你一个人呆着会很痛苦，”她说着，抬起双手，遮住因喜悦而泛红的脸颊，把一卷头发盘在颈背上，别在了那里。 “不，”她继续说道，“她不知道如何……幸运的是，我在索登学到了很多东西。”

‘Surely there are not people there so ill?’
“那里肯定没有人病得那么严重吧？”

‘Worse.’
'更差。'

‘What’s so awful to me is that I can’t see him as he was when he was young. You would not believe how charming he was as a youth, but I did not understand him then.’
“对我来说最可怕的是我看不到他年轻时的样子。你不会相信他年轻时有多么迷人，但那时我并不理解他。

‘I can quite, quite believe it. How I feel that we might have been friends!’ she said; and, distressed at what she had said, she looked round at her husband, and tears came into her eyes.
“我非常非常相信这一点。我多么觉得我们可能是朋友啊！”她说；她对自己所说的话感到苦恼，转头看着她的丈夫，眼里涌出了泪水。

‘Yes, might have been,’ he said mournfully. ‘He’s just one of those people of whom they say they’re not for this world.’
“是的，可能是，”他悲伤地说。 “他只是那些被认为不适合这个世界的人之一。”

‘But we have many days before us; we must go to bed,’ said Kitty, glancing at her tiny watch.
“但是我们还有很多天；我们必须去睡觉了，”基蒂说着，看了一眼她的小手表。

Chapter 20
第20章

The next day the sick man received the sacrament and extreme unction. During the ceremony Nikolay Levin prayed fervently. His great eyes, fastened on the holy image that was set out on a card table covered with a colored napkin, expressed such passionate prayer and hope that it was awful to Levin to see it. Levin knew that this passionate prayer and hope would only make him feel more bitterly parting from the life he so loved. Levin knew his brother and the workings of his intellect: he knew that his unbelief came not from life being easier for him without faith, but had grown up because step by step the contemporary scientific interpretation of natural phenomena crushed out the possibility of faith; and so he knew that his present return was not a legitimate one, brought about by way of the same working of his intellect, but simply a temporary, interested return to faith in a desperate hope of recovery. Levin knew too that Kitty had strengthened his hope by accounts of the marvelous recoveries she had heard of. Levin knew all this; and it was agonizingly painful to him to behold the supplicating, hopeful eyes and the emaciated wrist, lifted with difficulty, making the sign of the cross on the tense brow, and the prominent shoulders and hollow, gasping chest, which one could not feel consistent with the life the sick man was praying for. During the sacrament Levin did what he, an unbeliever, had done a thousand times. He said, addressing God, ‘If Thou dost exist, make this man to recover’ (of course this same thing has been repeated many times), ‘and Thou wilt save him and me.’
第二天，病人接受了圣餐和临终涂油。在仪式上尼古拉·莱文热切地祈祷。他那双大眼睛，紧紧地盯着一张铺着彩色餐巾的牌桌上的圣像，表达了如此热情的祈祷和希望，莱文看到它感到很可怕。莱文知道，这种热情的祈祷和希望只会让他在与他如此热爱的生活分离时感到更加痛苦。莱文了解他的兄弟和他的智力运作方式：他知道他的不信仰不是因为没有信仰而生活变得更容易，而是因为当代对自然现象的科学解释一步一步地压垮了信仰的可能性；因此，他知道他现在的回归并不是合法的，也不是通过他的智力的同样的运作方式实现的，而只是一种暂时的、有兴趣的回归信仰，绝望地希望康复。莱文也知道基蒂听说了她的康复情况，增强了他的希望。莱文知道这一切。看到那双恳求的、充满希望的眼睛，艰难地举起瘦弱的手腕，在紧绷的额头上画出十字，还有突出的肩膀和空洞、喘气的胸膛，这一切都让人感觉不协调，这让他感到极其痛苦。与病人所祈祷的生命。在圣礼期间，莱文做了他作为一个不信者已经做过一千次的事情。他对上帝说：“如果你存在，请让这个人康复”（当然，同样的事情已经重复了很多次），“你就会拯救他和我。”

After extreme unction the sick man became suddenly much better. He did not cough once in the course of an hour, smiled, kissed Kitty’s hand, thanking her with tears, and said he was comfortable, free from pain, and that he felt strong and had an appetite. He even raised himself when his soup was brought, and asked for a cutlet as well. Hopelessly ill as he was, obvious as it was at the first glance that he could not recover, Levin and Kitty were for that hour both in the same state of excitement, happy, though fearful of being mistaken.
涂完圣油后，病人突然好多了。一个小时内他没有咳嗽一次，微笑着亲吻基蒂的手，流着泪感谢她，并说他很舒服，没有疼痛，感觉很强壮，有胃口。当汤端上来时，他甚至站了起来，还要了一份炸肉排。尽管他病得无可救药，乍一看显然无法康复，但莱文和基蒂在那一刻都处于同样的兴奋、快乐状态，尽管担心被误会。

‘Is he better?’
“他好些了吗？”

‘Yes, much.’
“是的，很多。”

‘It’s wonderful.’
“太棒了。”

‘There’s nothing wonderful in it.’
“这没什么了不起的。”

‘Anyway, he’s better,’ they said in a whisper, smiling to one another.
“不管怎样，他好多了。”他们互相微笑，低声说道。

This self-deception was not of long duration. The sick man fell into a quiet sleep, but he was waked up half an hour later by his cough. And all at once every hope vanished in those about him and in himself. The reality of his suffering crushed all hopes in Levin and Kitty and in the sick man himself, leaving no doubt, no memory even of past hopes.
这种自欺欺人并没有持续太久。病人安静地睡着了，半个小时后就被咳嗽声吵醒了。突然之间，他周围的人和他自己的所有希望都消失了。他所受的痛苦的现实粉碎了莱文和基蒂以及病人本人的所有希望，毫无疑问，甚至对过去的希望也没有任何记忆。

Without referring to what he had believed in half an hour before, as though ashamed even to recall it, he asked for iodine to inhale in a bottle covered with perforated paper. Levin gave him the bottle, and the same look of passionate hope with which he had taken the sacrament was now fastened on his brother, demanding from him the confirmation of the doctor’s words that inhaling iodine worked wonders.
他没有提及半小时前他所相信的事情，仿佛连回忆起来都感到羞愧，他要求吸入一个装在穿孔纸上的瓶子里的碘。莱文把瓶子给了他，他接受圣餐时同样充满热情希望的表情现在又集中在他的兄弟身上，要求他证实医生的话，即吸入碘会产生奇迹。

‘Is Katya not here?’ he gasped, looking round while Levin reluctantly assented to the doctor’s words. ‘No; so I can say it.... It was for her sake I went through that farce. She’s so sweet; but you and I can’t deceive ourselves. This is what I believe in,’ he said, and, squeezing the bottle in his bony hand, he began breathing over it.
“卡佳不在这儿吗？”他喘着气，环顾四周，而莱文不情愿地同意了医生的话。 '不;所以我可以这么说……我就是为了她才经历了那场闹剧。她是那么可爱；但你我都无法欺骗自己。这就是我所相信的，”他说，然后用他瘦骨嶙峋的手里捏着瓶子，开始呼吸。

At eight o’clock in the evening Levin and his wife were drinking tea in their room when Marya Nikolaevna ran in to them breathlessly. She was pale, and her lips were quivering. ‘He is dying!’ she whispered. ‘I’m afraid will die this minute.’
晚上八点，莱文和他的妻子正在房间里喝茶，玛丽亚·尼古拉耶夫娜气喘吁吁地跑到他们身边。她脸色苍白，嘴唇颤抖。 “他快死了！”她低声说道。 “我恐怕这一分钟就会死。”

Both of them ran to him. He was sitting raised up with one elbow on the bed, his long back bent, and his head hanging low.
两人都跑向他。他坐在床上，一只手肘撑在床上，长长的背弯着，头低垂着。

‘How do you feel?’ Levin asked in a whisper, after a silence.
“你感觉怎么样？”沉默过后，莱文低声问道。

‘I feel I’m setting off,’ Nikolay said with difficulty, but with extreme distinctness, screwing the words out of himself. He did not raise his head, but simply turned his eyes upwards, without their reaching his brother’s face. ‘Katya, go away!’ he added.
“我觉得我要出发了。”尼古拉艰难地说道，但语气极其清晰，他是从自己嘴里挤出这句话的。他没有抬起头，只是将目光往上看，没有看向哥哥的脸。 “卡蒂亚，走开！”他补充道。

Levin jumped up, and with a peremptory whisper made her go out.
莱文跳了起来，用不容置疑的低语让她出去。

‘I’m setting off,’ he said again.
“我要出发了。”他又说道。

‘Why do you think so?’ said Levin, so as to say something.
“你为什么这么认为？”莱文问道，想说什么。

‘Because I’m setting off,’ he repeated, as though he had a liking for the phrase. ‘It’s the end.’
“因为我要出发了，”他重复道，好像他很喜欢这句话。 “结束了。”

Marya Nikolaevna went up to him.
玛丽亚·尼古拉耶芙娜走到他跟前。

‘You had better lie down; you’d be easier,’ she said.
“你最好躺下；你会更容易，”她说。

‘I shall lie down soon enough,’ he pronounced slowly, ‘when I’m dead,’ he said sarcastically, wrathfully. ‘Well, you can lay me down if you like.’
“我很快就会躺下，”他慢慢地说道，“等我死了，”他讽刺而愤怒地说。 “好吧，如果你愿意的话，可以让我躺下。”

Levin laid his brother on his back, sat down beside him, and gazed at his face, holding his breath. The dying man lay with closed eyes, but the muscles twitched from time to time on his forehead, as with one thinking deeply and intensely. Levin involuntarily thought with him of what it was that was happening to him now, but in spite of all his mental efforts to go along with him he saw by the expression of that calm, stern face that for the dying man all was growing clearer and clearer that was still as dark as ever for Levin.
莱文让他的兄弟仰面躺着，在他身边坐下，屏住呼吸，凝视着他的脸。垂死之人闭着眼睛躺着，但额头上的肌肉不时抽动，似乎在深思熟虑。莱文不由自主地和他一起思考现在发生在他身上的事情，但尽管他竭尽全力去配合他，但他从那张平静、严厉的脸上的表情看出，对于垂死的人来说，一切都变得越来越清晰和清晰。更清楚的是，莱文仍然像以前一样黑暗。

‘Yes, yes, so,’ the dying man articulated slowly at intervals. ‘Wait a little.’ He was silent. ‘Right!’ he pronounced all at once reassuringly, as though all were solved for him. ‘O Lord!’ he murmured, and sighed deeply.
“是的，是的，所以，”垂死的人时不时地缓慢地说。 “等一下。”他沉默了。 “好吧！”他一下子放心地说，仿佛一切都为他解决了。 “主啊！”他低声说道，并深深地叹了口气。

Marya Nikolaevna felt his feet. ‘They’re getting cold,’ she whispered.
玛丽亚·尼古拉耶夫娜摸了摸他的脚。 “他们变冷了，”她低声说道。

For a long while, a very long while it seemed to Levin, the sick man lay motionless. But he was still alive, and from time to time he sighed. Levin by now was exhausted from mental strain. He felt that, with no mental effort, could he understand what it was that was right. He could not even think of the problem of death itself, but with no will of his own thoughts kept coming to him of what he had to do next; closing the dead man’s eyes, dressing him, ordering the coffin. And, strange to say, he felt utterly cold, and was not conscious of sorrow nor of loss, less still of pity for his brother. If he had any feeling for his brother at that moment, it was envy for the knowledge the dying man had now that he could not have.
病人一动不动地躺了很长一段时间，莱文觉得已经很长一段时间了。但他还活着，时不时地叹息一声。莱文此时已经因精神紧张而疲惫不堪。他觉得，不用动脑子，他就能明白什么是正确的。他甚至无法思考死亡本身的问题，但他不自觉地想到了下一步该做什么。闭上死者的眼睛，给他穿衣服，安排棺材。而且，奇怪的是，他感到全身冰冷，没有意识到悲伤或失落，更没有意识到对他兄弟的怜悯。如果他当时对他的兄弟有任何感情的话，那就是嫉妒这个垂死的人现在拥有的知识，而他现在无法拥有。

A long time more he sat over him so, continually expecting the end. But the end did not come. The door opened and Kitty appeared. Levin got up to stop her. But at the moment he was getting up, he caught the sound of the dying man stirring.
他又坐在他身边很长一段时间，不断地等待着结局。但末日并没有到来。门开了，凯蒂出现了。莱文起身阻止她。但就在他起身的瞬间，他听到了垂死之人的动静。

‘Don’t go away,’ said Nikolay and held out his hand. Levin gave him his, and angrily waved to his wife to go away.
“别走开，”尼古拉伸出手说道。莱文把自己的递给了他，愤怒地挥手示意妻子走开。

With the dying man’s hand in his hand, he sat for half an hour, an hour, another hour. He did not think of death at all now. He wondered what Kitty was doing; who lived in the next room; whether the doctor lived in a house of his own. He longed for food and for sleep. He cautiously drew away his hand and felt the feet. The feet were cold, but the sick man was still breathing. Levin tried again to move away on tiptoe, but the sick man stirred again and said: ‘Don’t go.’
他握着垂死者的手，坐了半个小时，一个小时，又一个小时。他现在根本没有想到死亡。他想知道基蒂在做什么；谁住在隔壁房间；医生是否住在自己的房子里。他渴望食物和睡眠。他小心翼翼地抽回手，摸着脚。脚很冷，但病人仍有呼吸。莱文又想踮起脚尖走开，但病人又动了动，说：“别走。”

*****

The dawn came; the sick man’s condition was unchanged. Levin stealthily withdrew his hand, and without looking at the dying man, went off to his own room and went to sleep. When he woke up, instead of news of his brother’s death which he expected, he learned that the sick man had returned to his earlier condition. He had begun sitting up again, coughing, had begun eating again, talking again, and again had ceased to talk of death, again had begun to express hope of his recovery, and had become more irritable and more gloomy than ever. No one, neither his brother nor Kitty, could soothe him. He was angry with everyone, and said nasty things to everyone, reproached everyone for his sufferings, and insisted that they should get him a celebrated doctor from Moscow. To all inquiries made him as to how he felt, he made the same answer with an expression of vindictive reproachfulness, ‘I’m suffering horribly, intolerably!’
黎明来临了；病人的病情没有变化。莱文悄悄地收回了手，看也不看垂死的人，就回自己的房间去睡觉了。当他醒来时，并没有听到他所期待的哥哥去世的消息，而是得知病人已经恢复了之前的状态。他又开始坐起来，咳嗽，又开始吃东西，又说话，又不再谈论死亡，又开始表达康复的希望，而且变得比以前更烦躁、更阴郁。没有人，无论是他的兄弟还是凯蒂，都无法安抚他。他对每个人都很生气，对每个人都说难听的话，责备每个人所受的痛苦，并坚持要求他们从莫斯科给他找一位著名的医生。对于所有询问他感受如何的人，他都做出了同样的回答，表情充满报复和责备：“我正在遭受可怕的、难以忍受的痛苦！”

The sick man was suffering more and more, especially from bedsores, which it was impossible now to remedy, and grew more and more angry with everyone about him, blaming them for everything, and especially for not having brought him a doctor from Moscow. Kitty tried in every possible way to relieve him, to soothe him; but it was all in vain, and Levin saw that she herself was exhausted both physically and morally, though she would not admit it. The sense of death, which had been evoked in all by his taking leave of life on the night when he had sent for his brother, was broken up. Everyone knew that he must inevitably die soon, that he was half dead already. Everyone wished for nothing but that he should die as soon as possible, and everyone, concealing this, gave him medicines, tried to find remedies and doctors, and deceived him and themselves and each other. All this was falsehood, disgusting, irreverent deceit. And owing to the bent of his character, and because he loved the dying man more than anyone else did, Levin was most painfully conscious of this deceit.
病人的痛苦越来越大，尤其是褥疮，现在已经无法治愈，他对周围的每个人都越来越生气，将一切归咎于他们，尤其是没有从莫斯科给他带来医生。基蒂想尽各种办法来缓解他、安抚他。但这一切都是徒劳的，莱文看到她自己在身体上和精神上都已经疲惫不堪，尽管她不承认。当他派人去接弟弟的那天晚上，他告别生命所引发的死亡感被打破了。所有人都知道，他必死无疑，已经是半死不活了。每个人都别无他求，只求他尽快死去，每个人都隐瞒这一点，给他吃药，寻找药方和医生，欺骗他、欺骗自己、欺骗彼此。这一切都是谎言、令人厌恶、不敬的欺骗。由于他的性格倾向，也因为他比任何人都更爱这个垂死的人，莱文对这种欺骗感到非常痛苦。

Levin, who had long been possessed by the idea of reconciling his brothers, at least in face of death, had written to his brother, Sergey Ivanovitch, and having received an answer from him, he read this letter to the sick man. Sergey Ivanovitch wrote that he could not come himself, and in touching terms he begged his brother’s forgiveness.
列文长期以来一直想与他的兄弟和解，至少在死亡面前，他写信给他的兄弟谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇，收到他的答复后，他把这封信读给病人听。谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇写道，他自己不能来，并用感人的语言请求他哥哥的原谅。

The sick man said nothing.
病人什么也没说。

‘What am I to write to him?’ said Levin. ‘I hope you are not angry with him?’
“我该给他写些什么呢？”列文说。 “我希望你没有生他的气吗？”

‘No, not the least!’ Nikolay answered, vexed at the question. ‘Tell him to send me a doctor.’
“不，一点也不！”尼古拉回答道，对这个问题很恼火。 “让他给我派一名医生。”

Three more days of agony followed; the sick man was still in the same condition. The sense of longing for his death was felt by everyone now at the mere sight of him, by the waiters and the hotel-keeper and all the people staying in the hotel, and the doctor and Marya Nikolaevna and Levin and Kitty. The sick man alone did not express this feeling, but on the contrary was furious at their not getting him doctors, and went on taking medicine and talking of life. Only at rare moments, when the opium gave him an instant’s relief from the never-ceasing pain, he would sometimes, half asleep, utter what was ever more intense in his heart than in all the others: ‘Oh, if it were only the end!’ or: ‘When will it be over?’
接下来又是三天的痛苦。病人仍处于同样的状况。现在，每个人只要一看到他，就都感受到了对他死亡的渴望，包括服务员、旅馆老板和所有住在旅馆里的人，还有医生、玛丽亚·尼古拉耶芙娜、莱文和基蒂。唯独病人没有表达出这种感觉，反而对他们没有给他找医生感到愤怒，继续吃药，谈论人生。只有在极少数的时刻，当鸦片使他从永无休止的痛苦中得到片刻缓解时，他有时会在半睡半醒中说出他心中比其他人更强烈的话：“哦，如果只是这样就好了。”结束！”或者：“什么时候结束？”

His sufferings, steadily growing more intense, did their work and prepared him for death. There was no position in which he was not in pain, there was not a minute in which he was unconscious of it, not a limb, not a part of his body that did not ache and cause him agony. Even the memories, the impressions, the thoughts of this body awakened in him now the same aversion as the body itself. The sight of other people, their remarks, his own reminiscences, everything was for him a source of agony. Those about him felt this, and instinctively did not allow themselves to move freely, to talk, to express their wishes before him. All his life was merged in the one feeling of suffering and desire to be rid of it.
他的痛苦逐渐变得更加强烈，并为他的死亡做好了准备。没有一个姿势他不感到疼痛，没有一分钟他没有意识到这一点，他的肢体、身体的每一部分都在疼痛，给他带来痛苦。甚至连关于这个身体的记忆、印象、思想现在都在他心中唤醒了与身体本身同样的厌恶。别人的目光、别人的言论、自己的回忆，一切都让他痛苦不已。他周围的人也感受到了这一点，本能地不允许自己在他面前自由行动、说话、表达自己的愿望。他的一生都融入了一种痛苦的感觉和摆脱痛苦的渴望之中。

There was evidently coming over him that revulsion that would make him look upon death as the goal of his desires, as happiness. Hitherto each individual desire, aroused by suffering or privation, such as hunger, fatigue, thirst, had been satisfied by some bodily function giving pleasure. But now no physical craving or suffering received relief, and the effort to relieve them only caused fresh suffering. And so all desires were merged in one—the desire to be rid of all his sufferings and their source, the body. But he had no words to express this desire of deliverance, and so he did not speak of it, and from habit asked for the satisfaction of desires which could not now be satisfied. ‘Turn me over on the other side,’ he would say, and immediately after he would ask to be turned back again as before. ‘Give me some broth. Take away the broth. Talk of something: why are you silent?’ And directly they began to talk he would close his eyes, and would show weariness, indifference, and loathing.
显然，他感到一种厌恶，使他将死亡视为他欲望的目标，视为幸福。迄今为止，每个人的欲望，由痛苦或匮乏（例如饥​​饿、疲劳、口渴）引起的，都是通过某种带来快乐的身体机能来满足的。但现在，肉体的渴求或痛苦并没有得到缓解，而且为缓解它们而付出的努力只会带来新的痛苦。于是，所有的欲望都融合为一——摆脱所有痛苦及其根源——身体的欲望。但他没有言语来表达这种解脱的愿望，所以他没有说出它，而是出于习惯要求满足现在无法满足的愿望。 “把我翻到另一边，”他会说，然后他会立即要求像以前一样再转回来。 ‘给我点汤吧。把肉汤拿走。谈论一些事情：你为什么沉默？”当他们开始说话时，他就会闭上眼睛，并表现出疲倦、冷漠和厌恶。

On the tenth day from their arrival at the town, Kitty was unwell. She suffered from headache and sickness, and she could not get up all the morning.
他们到达小镇的第十天，基蒂就感觉不舒服。她头痛欲裂，整个早上都起不来。

The doctor opined that the indisposition arose from fatigue and excitement, and prescribed rest.
医生认为是由于劳累、兴奋引起的不适，建议休息。

After dinner, however, Kitty got up and went as usual with her work to the sick man. He looked at her sternly when she came in, and smiled contemptuously when she said she had been unwell. That day he was continually blowing his nose, and groaning piteously.
然而，晚饭后，基蒂起身，像往常一样去为病人做事。当她进来时，他严厉地看着她，当她说她身体不舒服时，他轻蔑地笑了笑。那天他不停地擤鼻涕，可怜兮兮地呻吟着。

‘How do you feel?’ she asked him.
“你感觉怎么样？”她问他。

‘Worse,’ he articulated with difficulty. ‘In pain!’
“更糟，”他艰难地说道。 '在疼痛！'

‘In pain, where?’
“哪里痛？”

‘Everywhere.’
'到处。'

‘It will be over today, you will see,’ said Marya Nikolaevna. Though it was said in a whisper, the sick man, whose hearing Levin had noticed was very keen, must have heard. Levin said hush to her, and looked round at the sick man. Nikolay had heard; but these words produced no effect on him. His eyes had still the same intense, reproachful look.
“今天就会结束，你会看到的，”玛丽亚·尼古拉耶夫娜说。虽然是小声说的，但莱文注意到病人的听力非常敏锐，他一定听到了。莱文对她说了一声“安静”，然后环视病人。尼古拉听到了；但这些话对他没有产生任何作用。他的眼神依然是那样的强烈、责备。

‘Why do you think so?’ Levin asked her, when she had followed him into the corridor.
“你为什么这么想？”当她跟着他走进走廊时，莱文问她。

‘He has begun picking at himself,’ said Marya Nikolaevna.
“他已经开始挑剔自己了，”玛丽亚·尼古拉耶夫娜说。

‘How do you mean?’
'你是什么意思？'

‘Like this,’ she said, tugging at the folds of her woolen skirt. Levin noticed, indeed, that all that day the patient pulled at himself, as it were, trying to snatch something away.
“就像这样，”她说，拉扯羊毛裙子的褶皱。事实上，莱文注意到，病人一整天都在拉扯自己，试图抢走什么东西。

Marya Nikolaevna’s prediction came true. Towards night the sick man was not able to lift his hands, and could only gaze before him with the same intensely concentrated expression in his eyes. Even when his brother or Kitty bent over him, so that he could see them, he looked just the same. Kitty sent for the priest to read the prayer for the dying.
玛丽亚·尼古拉耶芙娜的预言成真了。夜幕降临时，病人双手举不起来，只能凝视着前方，眼神同样专注。即使当他的兄弟或凯蒂弯下腰让他看到他们时，他看起来还是一样。基蒂派人请牧师为临终者宣读祈祷文。

While the priest was reading it, the dying man did not show any sign of life; his eyes were closed. Levin, Kitty, and Marya Nikolaevna stood at the bedside. The priest had not quite finished reading the prayer when the dying man stretched, sighed, and opened his eyes. The priest, on finishing the prayer, put the cross to the cold forehead, then slowly returned it to the stand, and after standing for two minutes more in silence, he touched the huge, bloodless hand that was turning cold.
当神父正在读这封信的时候，垂死的人已经没有任何生命迹象了。他的眼睛闭着。莱文、基蒂和玛丽亚·尼古拉耶芙娜站在床边。当神父还没读完祈祷文时，垂死的人伸了个懒腰，叹了口气，睁开了眼睛。神父做完祈祷，将十字架放在冰冷的额头上，然后缓缓放回架子上，默默地站了两分钟后，触碰了那只毫无血色、冰冷的巨手。

‘He is gone,’ said the priest, and would have moved away; but suddenly there was a faint stir in the mustaches of the dead man that seemed glued together, and quite distinctly in the hush they heard from the bottom of the chest the sharply defined sounds:
“他走了，”神父说，并想走开。但突然间，死者的胡须似乎粘在一起了，一阵微弱的骚动，在一片寂静中，他们清楚地听到从箱子底部传来尖锐的声音：

‘Not quite...soon.’
“不太……很快。”

And a minute later the face brightened, a smile came out under the mustaches, and the women who had gathered round began carefully laying out the corpse.
一分钟后，她的脸变得明亮起来，胡须下露出了笑容，聚集在周围的妇女们开始小心地安放尸体。

The sight of his brother, and the nearness of death, revived in Levin that sense of horror in face of the insoluble enigma, together with the nearness and inevitability of death, that had come upon him that autumn evening when his brother had come to him. This feeling was now even stronger than before; even less than before did he feel capable of apprehending the meaning of death, and its inevitability rose up before him more terrible than ever. But now, thanks to his wife’s presence, that feeling did not reduce him to despair. In spite of death, he felt the need of life and love. He felt that love saved him from despair, and that this love, under the menace of despair, had become still stronger and purer. The one mystery of death, still unsolved, had scarcely passed before his eyes, when another mystery had arisen, as insoluble, urging him to love and to life.
看到他的兄弟，以及死亡的临近，莱文在面对无法解决的谜团时的恐惧感，以及死亡的临近和不可避免，在那个秋天的晚上，当他的兄弟来到他身边时，他又恢复了这种恐惧感。 。这种感觉现在比之前还要强烈。他比以前更感觉自己无法理解死亡的意义，死亡的必然性在他面前比以往任何时候都更加可怕。但现在，多亏了妻子的存在，这种感觉并没有让他陷入绝望。尽管死亡，他仍然感到需要生命和爱。他觉得是爱将他从绝望中拯救了出来，而且这种爱在绝望的威胁下变得更加强烈和纯洁。死亡的一个谜团还没有解开，他刚刚从他眼前经过，另一个同样无法解开的谜团就出现了，催促他去爱和生活。

The doctor confirmed his suppositions in regard to Kitty. Her indisposition was a symptom that she was with child.
医生证实了他对基蒂的猜测。她的身体不适是她怀孕的征兆。

Chapter 21
第21章

From the moment when Alexey Alexandrovitch understood from his interviews with Betsy and with Stepan Arkadyevitch that all that was expected of him was to leave his wife in peace, without burdening her with his presence, and that his wife herself desired this, he felt so distraught that he could come to no decision of himself; he did not know himself what he wanted now, and putting himself in the hands of those who were so pleased to interest themselves in his affairs, he met everything with unqualified assent. It was only when Anna had left his house, and the English governess sent to ask him whether she should dine with him or separately, that for the first time he clearly comprehended his position, and was appalled by it. Most difficult of all in this position was the fact that he could not in any way connect and reconcile his past with what was now. It was not the past when he had lived happily with his wife that troubled him. The transition from that past to a knowledge of his wife’s unfaithfulness he had lived through miserably already; that state was painful, but he could understand it. If his wife had then, on declaring to him her unfaithfulness, left him, he would have been wounded, unhappy, but he would not have been in the hopeless position—incomprehensible to himself—in which he felt himself now. He could not now reconcile his immediate past, his tenderness, his love for his sick wife, and for the other man’s child with what was now the case, that is with the fact that, as it were, in return for all this he now found himself alone, put to shame, a laughing-stock, needed by no one, and despised by everyone.
当阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇从贝特西和斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇的采访中了解到，人们对他的期望就是让他的妻子平静地生活，而不让他的存在给她带来负担，而他的妻子本人也希望如此，从那一刻起，他感到非常心烦意乱。他自己无法做出决定；他不知道自己现在想要什么，而把自己交给那些乐于关心他的事情的人，他对一切都表示无条件的同意。直到安娜离开他的家，英国家庭女教师派人来问他是应该和他一起吃饭还是单独吃饭时，他才第一次清楚地理解了自己的立场，并为此感到震惊。在这个位置上最困难的是他无法以任何方式将过去与现在联系起来并调和起来。让他烦恼的并不是过去与妻子幸福的生活。从过去的经历到了解妻子的不忠，他已经痛苦地经历了这一转变。那种状态很痛苦，但他能理解。如果他的妻子当时向他宣布了她的不忠，就离开了他，他会受伤、不快乐，但他也不会处于他现在感到的那种绝望的境地——他自己也无法理解。他现在无法将他的过去、他的温柔、他对生病的妻子和另一个男人的孩子的爱与现在的情况调和起来，也就是说，作为对这一切的回报，他现在发现自己孤身一人，蒙羞受辱，成为笑柄，无人需要，人人鄙视。

For the first two days after his wife’s departure Alexey Alexandrovitch received applicants for assistance and his chief secretary, drove to the committee, and went down to dinner in the dining room as usual. Without giving himself a reason for what he was doing, he strained every nerve of his being for those two days, simply to preserve an appearance of composure, and even of indifference. Answering inquiries about the disposition of Anna Arkadyevna’s rooms and belongings, he had exercised immense self-control to appear like a man in whose eyes what had occurred was not unforeseen nor out of the ordinary course of events, and he attained his aim: no one could have detected in him signs of despair. But on the second day after her departure, when Korney gave him a bill from a fashionable draper’s shop, which Anna had forgotten to pay, and announced that the clerk from the shop was waiting, Alexey Alexandrovitch told him to show the clerk up.
在他妻子离开后的头两天，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇接待了援助申请者和他的首席秘书，开车去委员会，然后像往常一样去餐厅吃晚饭。他没有给自己解释这样做的理由，这两天他竭尽全力，只是为了保持一副镇定甚至冷漠的样子。在回答有关安娜·阿尔卡季耶夫娜的房间和财物的处置问题的询问时，他表现出极大的自制力，表现得像一个在他眼中所发生的事情并非不可预见或不寻常的人，他达到了他的目的：没有人可能在他身上发现了绝望的迹象。但在她离开后的第二天，当科尼给了他一张时尚布店的账单（安娜忘记付钱）并宣布店里的店员正在等待时，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇让他带店员来。

‘Excuse me, your excellency, for venturing to trouble you. But if you direct us to apply to her excellency, would you graciously oblige us with her address?’
“对不起，阁下，冒昧打扰您了。但如果您指示我们向她阁下提出申请，您会慷慨地向我们提供她的地址吗？

Alexey Alexandrovitch pondered, as it seemed to the clerk, and all at once, turning round, he sat down at the table. Letting his head sink into his hands, he sat for a long while in that position, several times attempted to speak and stopped short. Korney, perceiving his master’s emotion, asked the clerk to call another time. Left alone, Alexey Alexandrovitch recognized that he had not the strength to keep up the line of firmness and composure any longer. He gave orders for the carriage that was awaiting him to be taken back, and for no one to be admitted, and he did not go down to dinner.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇沉思着，正如店员所认为的那样，他突然转过身，在桌边坐下。他双手捂着头，在这个姿势上坐了好久，好几次想要说话，却又戛然而止。科尼察觉到了主人的情绪，请店员下次再打电话。只剩下阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇一个人，他意识到自己已经没有力气再保持坚定和镇定的态度了。他吩咐把等待他的马车收回，不让任何人进入，他也没有下楼去吃晚饭。

He felt that he could not endure the weight of universal contempt and exasperation, which he had distinctly seen in the face of the clerk and of Korney, and of everyone, without exception, whom he had met during those two days. He felt that he could not turn aside from himself the hatred of men, because that hatred did not come from his being bad (in that case he could have tried to be better), but from his being shamefully and repulsively unhappy. He knew that for this, for the very fact that his heart was torn with grief, they would be merciless to him. He felt that men would crush him as dogs strangle a torn dog yelping with pain. He knew that his sole means of security against people was to hide his wounds from them, and instinctively he tried to do this for two days, but now he felt incapable of keeping up the unequal struggle.
他觉得自己无法忍受普遍的轻蔑和愤怒，他在职员和科尼以及他这两天遇到的每个人的脸上都清楚地看到了这种轻蔑和愤怒。他觉得自己无法摆脱对人的仇恨，因为这种仇恨并非来自于他的坏（如果是这样的话，他本可以努力变得更好），而是来自于他可耻且令人厌恶的不快乐。他知道，为了这个，为了他心如刀绞的事实，他们就会对他毫不留情。他觉得男人会压垮他，就像狗勒死一只痛苦地嚎叫的撕裂的狗一样。他知道他对抗他人的唯一安全手段就是向他们隐藏自己的伤口，他本能地尝试这样做了两天，但现在他感到无法继续这种不平等的斗争。

His despair was even intensified by the consciousness that he was utterly alone in his sorrow. In all Petersburg there was not a human being to whom he could express what he was feeling, who would feel for him, not as a high official, not as a member of society, but simply as a suffering man; indeed he had not such a one in the whole world.
当他意识到自己独自一人在悲伤中时，他的绝望更加强烈。在整个彼得堡，没有一个人可以向他表达自己的感受，没有一个人会同情他，不是作为一个高级官员，不是作为一个社会成员，而只是作为一个受苦受难的人；确实，全世界他都没有这样的人。

Alexey Alexandrovitch grew up an orphan. There were two brothers. They did not remember their father, and their mother died when Alexey Alexandrovitch was ten years old. The property was a small one. Their uncle, Karenin, a government official of high standing, at one time a favorite of the late Tsar, had brought them up.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇是个孤儿。有两个兄弟。他们不记得他们的父亲，他们的母亲在阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇十岁时就去世了。房子很小。他们的叔叔卡列宁是一位地位很高的政府官员，曾一度受到已故沙皇的宠爱，将他们抚养长大。

On completing his high school and university courses with medals, Alexey Alexandrovitch had, with his uncle’s aid, immediately started in a prominent position in the service, and from that time forward he had devoted himself exclusively to political ambition. In the high school and the university, and afterwards in the service, Alexey Alexandrovitch had never formed a close friendship with anyone. His brother had been the person nearest to his heart, but he had a post in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and was always abroad, where he had died shortly after Alexey Alexandrovitch’s marriage.
在以奖牌完成高中和大学课程后，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇在叔叔的帮助下，立即开始在军队中担任要职，从那时起，他就完全致力于政治野心。在高中和大学，以及后来的服役中，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇从未与任何人建立过亲密的友谊。他的兄弟是他最亲近的人，但他在外交部任职，而且总是在国外，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇结婚后不久，他就去世了。

While he was governor of a province, Anna’s aunt, a wealthy provincial lady, had thrown him—middle-aged as he was, though young for a governor—with her niece, and had succeeded in putting him in such a position that he had either to declare himself or to leave the town. Alexey Alexandrovitch was not long in hesitation. There were at the time as many reasons for the step as against it, and there was no overbalancing consideration to outweigh his invariable rule of abstaining when in doubt. But Anna’s aunt had through a common acquaintance insinuated that he had already compromised the girl, and that he was in honor bound to make her an offer. He made the offer, and concentrated on his betrothed and his wife all the feeling of which he was capable.
当他担任一个省长时，安娜的姨妈，一位富有的省级女士，把他——尽管他已是中年，但对于省长来说还很年轻——把他和她的侄女扔到了一起，并成功地将他置于这样一个位置：要么宣布自己的身份，要么离开这座城镇。阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇并没有犹豫太久。当时，采取这一措施的理由与反对采取这一措施的理由一样多，而且没有任何过度平衡的考虑可以压倒他在有疑问时投弃权票的不变规则。但安娜的姨妈通过一位熟人暗示他已经妥协了这个女孩，并且他有义务向她提出要约。他提出了请求，并把所有的感情都集中在他的未婚夫和他的妻子身上。

The attachment he felt to Anna precluded in his heart every need of intimate relations with others. And now among all his acquaintances he had not one friend. He had plenty of so-called connections, but no friendships. Alexey Alexandrovitch had plenty of people whom he could invite to dinner, to whose sympathy he could appeal in any public affair he was concerned about, whose interest he could reckon upon for anyone he wished to help, with whom he could candidly discuss other people’s business and affairs of state. But his relations with these people were confined to one clearly defined channel, and had a certain routine from which it was impossible to depart. There was one man, a comrade of his at the university, with whom he had made friends later, and with whom he could have spoken of a personal sorrow; but this friend had a post in the Department of Education in a remote part of Russia. Of the people in Petersburg the most intimate and most possible were his chief secretary and his doctor.
他对安娜的依恋使他内心排除了与他人建立亲密关系的一切需要。现在，在他所有的熟人中，他没有一个朋友。他有很多所谓的关系，但没有友谊。阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇有很多人可以邀请他共进晚餐，他可以在他关心的任何公共事务中博取他们的同情，他可以考虑他们对他想要帮助的任何人的兴趣，他可以与他们坦诚地讨论其他人的事情和国家大事。但他与这些人的关系却局限于一个明确的渠道，并且有一定的惯例，无法脱离。有一个人，他在大学时的一位同志，后来与他成为了朋友，他可以与他谈论个人的悲伤；但他却没有。但这位朋友在俄罗斯偏远地区的教育部任职。在彼得堡的人中，最亲密、最可能的就是他的首席秘书和他的医生。

Mihail Vassilievitch Sludin, the chief secretary, was a straightforward, intelligent, good-hearted, and conscientious man, and Alexey Alexandrovitch was aware of his personal goodwill. But their five years of official work together seemed to have put a barrier between them that cut off warmer relations.
首席秘书米哈伊尔·瓦西里耶维奇·斯鲁丁是一个直率、聪明、心地善良、尽职尽责的人，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇也知道他的个人善意。但他们五年的正式合作似乎在他们之间设置了障碍，切断了温暖的关系。

After signing the papers brought him, Alexey Alexandrovitch had sat for a long while in silence, glancing at Mihail Vassilievitch, and several times he attempted to speak, but could not. He had already prepared the phrase: ‘You have heard of my trouble?’ But he ended by saying, as usual: ‘So you’ll get this ready for me?’ and with that dismissed him.
在签署了给他带来的文件后，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇沉默地坐了很长一段时间，看了一眼米哈伊尔·瓦西里耶维奇，好几次试图说话，但说不出来。他已经准备好了这句话：“你听说过我的麻烦了？”但最后他像往常一样说：“那么你会为我准备这个吗？”然后就打发走了他。

The other person was the doctor, who had also a kindly feeling for him; but there had long existed a taciturn understanding between them that both were weighed down by work, and always in a hurry.
另一个人是医生，对他也有好感。但他们之间早已存在着一种沉默的默契，两人都忙于工作，总是匆匆忙忙。

Of his women friends, foremost amongst them Countess Lidia Ivanovna, Alexey Alexandrovitch never thought. All women, simply as women, were terrible and distasteful to him.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇从未想到过他的女性朋友，其中最重要的是莉迪亚·伊万诺芙娜伯爵夫人。所有的女人，就像女人一样，对他来说都是可怕的和令人厌恶的。

Chapter 22
第22章

Alexey Alexandrovitch had forgotten the Countess Lidia Ivanovna, but she had not forgotten him. At the bitterest moment of his lonely despair she came to him, and without waiting to be announced, walked straight into his study. She found him as he was sitting with his head in both hands.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇忘记了莉迪亚·伊万诺芙娜伯爵夫人，但她并没有忘记他。在他最孤独绝望的时刻，她来到了他的身边，不等宣布，径直走进了他的书房。她发现他时，他双手抱头坐着。

‘J’ai force la consigne,’ she said, walking in with rapid steps and breathing hard with excitement and rapid exercise. ‘I have heard all! Alexey Alexandrovitch! Dear friend!’ she went on, warmly squeezing his hand in both of hers and gazing with her fine pensive eyes into his.
“J’ai force la consigne，”她说着，迈着快步走进来，因兴奋和快速运动而呼吸急促。 ‘我都听到了！阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇！亲爱的朋友！”她继续说道，用双手温暖地握着他的手，用她沉思的双眸凝视着他。

Alexey Alexandrovitch, frowning, got up, and disengaging his hand, moved her a chair.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇皱着眉头站起来，松开手，给她搬了一张椅子。

‘Won’t you sit down, countess? I’m seeing no one because I’m unwell, countess,’ he said, and his lips twitched.
“您不坐下吗，伯爵夫人？我没有见任何人，因为我身体不舒服，伯爵夫人。”他说道，嘴唇抽动着。

‘Dear friend!’ repeated Countess Lidia Ivanovna, never taking her eyes off his, and suddenly her eyebrows rose at the inner corners, describing a triangle on her forehead, her ugly yellow face became still uglier, but Alexey Alexandrovitch felt that she was sorry for him and was preparing to cry. And he too was softened; he snatched her plump hand and proceeded to kiss it.
“亲爱的朋友！”莉迪亚·伊万诺夫娜伯爵夫人重复道，眼睛始终没有离开过他的眼睛，突然，她的眉毛从内角升起，在额头上画出一个三角形，她丑陋的黄脸变得更加丑陋，但阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇觉得她很抱歉为了他，准备哭泣。他也软化了；他抓住她胖乎乎的手，开始亲吻。

‘Dear friend!’ she said in a voice breaking with emotion. ‘You ought not to give way to grief. Your sorrow is a great one, but you ought to find consolation.’
“亲爱的朋友！”她声音激动地说。 ‘你不应该屈服于悲伤。你的悲伤是巨大的，但你应该找到安慰。

‘I am crushed, I am annihilated, I am no longer a man!’ said Alexey Alexandrovitch, letting go her hand, but still gazing into her brimming eyes. ‘My position is so awful because I can find nowhere, I cannot find within me strength to support me.’
“我被压垮了，我被消灭了，我不再是一个男人了！”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇说，松开了手，但仍然凝视着她那双泛着泪光的眼睛。 “我的处境非常糟糕，因为我无处可去，我找不到内心的力量来支持我。”

‘You will find support; seek it—not in me, though I beseech you to believe in my friendship,’ she said, with a sigh. ‘Our support is love, that love that He has vouchsafed us. His burden is light,’ she said, with the look of ecstasy Alexey Alexandrovitch knew so well. ‘He will be your support and your succor.’
‘你会找到支持；寻求它——不是在我身上，尽管我恳求你相信我的友谊，”她叹了口气说。 ‘我们的支持是爱，是他赐予我们的爱。他的负担很轻。”她说道，脸上带着阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇熟悉的狂喜神情。 “他将成为你的支持和帮助。”

Although there was in these words a flavor of that sentimental emotion at her own lofty feelings, and that new mystical fervor which had lately gained ground in Petersburg, and which seemed to Alexey Alexandrovitch disproportionate, still it was pleasant to him to hear this now.
虽然这些话里有她自己的崇高感情的感伤情绪，还有最近在彼得堡流行起来的新的神秘热情，这在阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇看来是不相称的，但现在听到这些对他来说仍然很愉快。

‘I am weak. I am crushed. I foresaw nothing, and now I understand nothing.’
'我没有力气。我心碎了。我什么也没预见到，现在我什么也不明白。”

‘Dear friend,’ repeated Lidia Ivanovna.
“亲爱的朋友，”莉迪亚·伊万诺夫娜重复道。

‘It’s not the loss of what I have not now, it’s not that!’ pursued Alexey Alexandrovitch. ‘I do not grieve for that. But I cannot help feeling humiliated before other people for the position I am placed in. It is wrong, but I can’t help it, I can’t help it.’
“这不是失去我现在所没有的东西，不是那个！”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇继续说道。 “我并不为此感到悲伤。但我不禁因为自己所处的位置而在其他人面前感到羞辱。这是错误的，但我无法控制，我无法控制。

‘Not you it was performed that noble act of forgiveness, at which I was moved to ecstasy, and everyone else too, but He, working within your heart,’ said Countess Lidia Ivanovna, raising her eyes rapturously, ‘and so you cannot be ashamed of your act.’
“不是你，而是他，在你的心里工作，”莉迪亚·伊万诺芙娜伯爵夫人兴奋地抬起眼睛，“所以你不能对你的行为感到羞耻。

Alexey Alexandrovitch knitted his brows, and crooking his hands, he cracked his fingers.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇皱起眉头，弯曲双手，打响了手指。

‘One must know all the facts,’ he said in his thin voice. ‘A man’s strength has its limits, countess, and I have reached my limits. The whole day I have had to be making arrangements, arrangements about household matters arising’ (he emphasized the word arising) ‘from my new, solitary position. The servants, the governess, the accounts.... These pinpricks have stabbed me to the heart, and I have not the strength to bear it. At dinner... yesterday, I was almost getting up from the dinner table. I could not bear the way my son looked at me. He did not ask me the meaning of it all, but he wanted to ask, and I could not bear the look in his eyes. He was afraid to look at me, but that is not all....’ Alexey Alexandrovitch would have referred to the bill that had been brought him, but his voice shook, and he stopped. That bill on blue paper, for a hat and ribbons, he could not recall without a rush of self-pity.
“一个人必须知道所有的事实，”他用微弱的声音说道。 “一个人的力量是有极限的，伯爵夫人，而我已经达到了极限。一整天我都必须做出安排，安排有关家庭事务的安排，这些事情是从我新的、孤独的位置上发生的（他强调了“发生”这个词）。仆人、家庭教师、账目……这些针刺都刺痛了我的心，我没有力气承受。昨天吃晚饭的时候……我差点就从餐桌上站了起来。我无法忍受儿子看我的眼神。他没有问我这一切的意义，但他想问，我无法忍受他的眼神。他不敢看我，但这还不是全部……”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇本想提到给他带来的账单，但他的声音颤抖着，他停了下来。蓝纸上的那张帽子和丝带的账单，他一想起就感到一阵自怜。

‘I understand, dear friend,’ said Lidia Ivanovna. ‘I understand it all. Succor and comfort you will find not in me, though I have come only to aid you if I can. If I could take from off you all these petty, humiliating cares...I understand that a woman’s word, a woman’s superintendence is needed. You will intrust it to me?’
“我明白，亲爱的朋友，”莉迪亚·伊万诺夫娜说。 ‘我全都明白了。你不会在我身上找到帮助和安慰，尽管我来这里只是为了在可能的情况下帮助你。如果我能摆脱你所有这些琐碎的、羞辱性的关心……我明白需要一个女人的话语，一个女人的监督。你会把它托付给我吗？

Silently and gratefully Alexey Alexandrovitch pressed her hand.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇默默地、感激地握住了她的手。

‘Together we will take care of Seryozha. Practical affairs are not my strong point. But I will set to work. I will be your housekeeper. Don’t thank me. I do it not from myself...’
“我们将一起照顾谢廖扎。实际事务不是我的强项。但我会开始工作。我将成为你的管家。别谢我。我不是自己做的……”

‘I cannot help thanking you.’
“我忍不住要感谢你。”

‘But, dear friend, do not give way to the feeling of which you spoke—being ashamed of what is the Christian’s highest glory: he who humbles himself shall be exalted. And you cannot thank me. You must thank Him, and pray to Him for succor. In Him alone we find peace, consolation, salvation, and love,’ she said, and turning her eyes heavenwards, she began praying, as Alexey Alexandrovitch gathered from her silence.
‘但是，亲爱的朋友，不要屈服于你所说的感觉——为基督徒的最高荣耀感到羞耻：谦卑自己的人将被高举。你不能感谢我。你必须感谢他，并祈求他的帮助。唯有在他身上，我们才能找到平安、安慰、救赎和爱。”她说着，将目光转向天空，开始祈祷，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇从沉默中恢复过来。

Alexey Alexandrovitch listened to her now, and those expressions which had seemed to him, if not distasteful, at least exaggerated, now seemed to him natural and consolatory. Alexey Alexandrovitch had disliked this new enthusiastic fervor. He was a believer, who was interested in religion primarily in its political aspect, and the new doctrine which ventured upon several new interpretations, just because it paved the way to discussion and analysis, was in principle disagreeable to him. He had hitherto taken up a cold and even antagonistic attitude to this new doctrine, and with Countess Lidia Ivanovna, who had been carried away by it, he had never argued, but by silence had assiduously parried her attempts to provoke him into argument. Now for the first time he heard her words with pleasure, and did not inwardly oppose them.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇现在听着她说话，那些在他看来即使不是令人反感，至少是夸张的表情，现在对他来说似乎是自然而令人安慰的。阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇不喜欢这种新的热情。他是一名信徒，对宗教的兴趣主要在于其政治方面，而新教义冒险提出几种新的解释，只是因为它为讨论和分析铺平了道路，原则上他是不同意的。迄今为止，他对这一新学说一直采取冷漠甚至敌对的态度，对于被新学说迷惑的莉迪亚·伊万诺夫娜伯爵夫人，他从未争论过，但通过沉默，刻意地阻止了她挑衅他争论的企图。现在他第一次听到她的话感到高兴，并没有内心反对。

‘I am very, very grateful to you, both for your deeds and for your words,’ he said, when she had finished praying.
当她祈祷完毕后，他说：“我非常非常感谢你，无论是你的行为还是你的言语。”

Countess Lidia Ivanovna once more pressed both her friend’s hands.
莉迪亚·伊万诺夫娜伯爵夫人再次握住了她朋友的双手。

‘Now I will enter upon my duties,’ she said with a smile after a pause, as she wiped away the traces of tears. ‘I am going to Seryozha. Only in the last extremity shall I apply to you.’ And she got up and went out.
“现在我要开始履行我的职责了。”停顿了一下，她擦去泪痕，微笑着说道。 “我要去谢廖扎。只有在最后的绝境中，我才会向你求助。”说完，她起身走了出去。

Countess Lidia Ivanovna went into Seryozha’s part of the house, and dropping tears on the scared child’s cheeks, she told him that his father was a saint and his mother was dead.
莉迪亚·伊万诺夫娜伯爵夫人走进谢廖扎的房子，泪水滴在了受惊的孩子的脸颊上，她告诉他，他的父亲是一位圣人，而他的母亲已经去世了。

Countess Lidia Ivanovna kept her promise. She did actually take upon herself the care of the organization and management of Alexey Alexandrovitch’s household. But she had not overstated the case when saying that practical affairs were not her strong point. All her arrangements had to be modified because they could not be carried out, and they were modified by Korney, Alexey Alexandrovitch’s valet, who, though no one was aware of the fact, now managed Karenin’s household, and quietly and discreetly reported to his master while he was dressing all it was necessary for him to know. But Lidia Ivanovna’s help was none the less real; she gave Alexey Alexandrovitch moral support in the consciousness of her love and respect for him, and still more, as it was soothing to her to believe, in that she almost turned him to Christianity—that is, from an indifferent and apathetic believer she turned him into an ardent and steadfast adherent of the new interpretation of Christian doctrine, which had been gaining ground of late in Petersburg. It was easy for Alexey Alexandrovitch to believe in this teaching. Alexey Alexandrovitch, like Lidia Ivanovna indeed, and others who shared their views, was completely devoid of vividness of imagination, that spiritual faculty in virtue of which the conceptions evoked by the imagination become so vivid that they must needs be in harmony with other conceptions, and with actual fact. He saw nothing impossible and inconceivable in the idea that death, though existing for unbelievers, did not exist for him, and that, as he was possessed of the most perfect faith, of the measure of which he was himself the judge, therefore there was no sin in his soul, and he was experiencing complete salvation here on earth.
莉迪亚·伊万诺夫娜伯爵夫人信守了她的诺言。她实际上承担了阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇家庭的组织和管理责任。但她说实际事务不是她的强项，这并没有夸大其词。她的所有安排都必须修改，因为它们无法执行，而这些安排是由阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇的男仆科尔尼修改的，虽然没有人知道这一事实，但他现在管理着卡列宁的家庭，并悄悄地、谨慎地向他的主人报告。当他穿衣服时，他需要知道的一切。但莉迪亚·伊万诺夫娜的帮助仍然是真实的。她给了阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇道义上的支持，因为她意识到她对他的爱和尊重，更重要的是，她相信她几乎让他皈依了基督教——也就是说，她从一个冷漠和冷漠的信徒变成了基督教徒。他成为基督教教义新解释的热心而坚定的追随者，这种解释最近在彼得堡逐渐流行。阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇很容易相信这一教导。阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇，确实像莉迪亚·伊万诺夫娜和其他分享他们观点的人一样，完全缺乏生动的想象力，凭借这种精神能力，想象所引发的概念变得如此生动，以至于它们必须与其他概念相协调，并以事实为依据。他认为，死亡虽然存在于非信徒身上，但对他来说并不存在，而且，由于他拥有最完美的信仰，他自己对信仰的程度有自己的判断，因此死亡对于他来说并不存在，这并不是什么不可能和不可思议的事情。他的灵魂中没有罪，他在地球上经历了完全的拯救。

It is true that the erroneousness and shallowness of this conception of his faith was dimly perceptible to Alexey Alexandrovitch, and he knew that when, without the slightest idea that his forgiveness was the action of a higher power, he had surrendered directly to the feeling of forgiveness, he had felt more happiness than now when he was thinking every instant that Christ was in his heart, and that in signing official papers he was doing His will. But for Alexey Alexandrovitch it was a necessity to think in that way; it was such a necessity for him in his humiliation to have some elevated standpoint, however imaginary, from which, looked down upon by all, he could look down on others, that he clung, as to his one salvation, to his delusion of salvation.
确实，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇隐隐约约地感觉到他的这种信仰观念的错误和肤浅，他知道，当他没有丝毫意识到他的宽恕是更高权力的行为时，他直接屈服于一种感觉当他每时每刻想到基督在他心里，在签署正式文件时，他正在遵行他的旨意时，他比现在感到更加幸福。但对于阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇来说，有必要以这种方式思考。他在屈辱中必须有某种崇高的立场，无论多么虚幻，在所有人都瞧不起的情况下，他可以从这个立场上看别人，因此他坚持认为自己只有一个救赎，坚持自己对救赎的幻想。 。

Chapter 23
第23章

The Countess Lidia Ivanovna had, as a very young and sentimental girl, been married to a wealthy man of high rank, an extremely good-natured, jovial, and extremely dissipated rake. Two months after marriage her husband abandoned her, and her impassioned protestations of affection he met with a sarcasm and even hostility that people knowing the count’s good heart, and seeing no defects in the sentimental Lidia, were at a loss to explain. Though they were divorced and lived apart, yet whenever the husband met the wife, he invariably behaved to her with the same malignant irony, the cause of which was incomprehensible.
莉迪亚·伊万诺芙娜伯爵夫人是个非常年轻、多愁善感的女孩，嫁给了一个地位很高的富翁，一个脾气非常好、快活、极其放荡的浪荡子。结婚两个月后，她的丈夫抛弃了她，而她慷慨激昂的爱意表达却遭到了讽刺甚至敌意，人们知道伯爵的善良心肠，也看不出多愁善感的莉迪亚身上没有任何缺陷，因此无法解释。虽然他们离婚分居，但丈夫每次见到妻子时，总是用同样恶毒的讽刺态度对待她，其原因令人费解。

Countess Lidia Ivanovna had long given up being in love with her husband, but from that time she had never given up being in love with someone. She was in love with several people at once, both men and women; she had been in love with almost everyone who had been particularly distinguished in any way. She was in love with all the new princes and princesses who married into the imperial family; she had been in love with a high dignitary of the Church, a vicar, and a parish priest; she had been in love with a journalist, three Slavophiles, with Komissarov, with a minister, a doctor, an English missionary and Karenin. All these passions constantly waning or growing more ardent, did not prevent her from keeping up the most extended and complicated relations with the court and fashionable society. But from the time that after Karenin’s trouble she took him under her special protection, from the time that she set to work in Karenin’s household looking after his welfare, she felt that all her other attachments were not the real thing, and that she was now genuinely in love, and with no one but Karenin. The feeling she now experienced for him seemed to her stronger than any of her former feelings. Analyzing her feeling, and comparing it with former passions, she distinctly perceived that she would not have been in love with Komissarov if he had not saved the life of the Tsar, that she would not have been in love with Ristitch-Kudzhitsky if there had been no Slavonic question, but that she loved Karenin for himself, for his lofty, uncomprehended soul, for the sweet—to her—high notes of his voice, for his drawling intonation, his weary eyes, his character, and his soft white hands with their swollen veins. She was not simply overjoyed at meeting him, but she sought in his face signs of the impression she was making on him. She tried to please him, not by her words only, but in her whole person. For his sake it was that she now lavished more care on her dress than before. She caught herself in reveries on what might have been, if she had not been married and he had been free. She blushed with emotion when he came into the room, she could not repress a smile of rapture when he said anything amiable to her.
莉迪亚·伊万诺夫娜伯爵夫人早已放弃了对丈夫的爱，但从那时起，她就从未放弃过爱一个人。她同时爱上了好几个人，有男人也有女人。她几乎爱上了所有在任何方面都特别杰出的人。她爱上了所有嫁入皇室的新王子和公主；她曾爱上一位教会高官、一位牧师和一位教区牧师。她爱上了一名记者、三个斯拉夫主义者、科米萨罗夫、一名牧师、一名医生、一名英国传教士和卡列宁。所有这些热情不断减弱或变得更加热烈，并没有阻止她与宫廷和上流社会保持着最广泛和最复杂的关系。但自从卡列宁出事之后，她把他置于自己的特殊保护之下，从她开始在卡列宁家里工作，照顾他的福利开始，她就觉得她所有的其他执着都不是真的，她现在是真心相爱，除了卡列宁以外谁也不爱。她现在对他的感觉似乎比她以前的任何感觉都强烈。通过分析自己的感受，并与以前的激情进行比较，她清楚地意识到，如果科米萨罗夫没有救沙皇的命，她就不会爱上他；如果有，她也不会爱上里斯蒂奇-库吉茨基。这不是斯拉夫式的问题，而是她爱卡列宁，因为他自己，因为他崇高而不被理解的灵魂，因为他甜美的高音调，因为他慢吞吞的语调，他疲倦的眼睛，他的性格，还有他柔软白皙的双手。和他们肿胀的静脉。 她不仅因为见到他而欣喜若狂，而且还从他的脸上寻找她给他留下的印象的迹象。她试图取悦他，不仅仅是用言语，而是用她的整个人。为了他，她现在对自己的衣着比以前更加用心了。她陷入了遐想，如果她没有结婚，而他没有自由的话，会发生什么。当他走进房间时，她激动得满脸通红，当他对她说些亲切的话时，她无法抑制住欣喜若狂的微笑。

For several days now Countess Lidia Ivanovna had been in a state of intense excitement. She had learned that Anna and Vronsky were in Petersburg. Alexey Alexandrovitch must be saved from seeing her, he must be saved even from the torturing knowledge that that awful woman was in the same town with him, and that he might meet her any minute.
几天来，莉迪亚·伊万诺夫娜伯爵夫人一直处于极度兴奋的状态。她得知安娜和渥伦斯基在彼得堡。必须避免阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇见到她，甚至必须避免让他知道那个可怕的女人和他在同一个城镇，而且他随时都可能见到她。

Lidia Ivanovna made inquiries through her friends as to what those infamous people, as she called Anna and Vronsky, intended doing, and she endeavored so to guide every movement of her friend during those days that he could not come across them. The young adjutant, an acquaintance of Vronsky, through whom she obtained her information, and who hoped through Countess Lidia Ivanovna to obtain a concession, told her that they had finished their business and were going away next day. Lidia Ivanovna had already begun to calm down, when the next morning a note was brought her, the handwriting of which she recognized with horror. It was the handwriting of Anna Karenina. The envelope was of paper as thick as bark; on the oblong yellow paper there was a huge monogram, and the letter smelt of agreeable scent.
莉迪亚·伊万诺夫娜通过她的朋友询问那些臭名昭著的人，她称之为安娜和渥伦斯基，打算做什么，并且她努力引导她的朋友在那些日子里的一举一动，以免他遇到他们。这位年轻的副官是渥伦斯基的熟人，她通过他获得了情报，并希望通过莉迪亚·伊万诺夫娜伯爵夫人获得让步，告诉她他们已经完成了任务，第二天就要离开。第二天早上，莉迪亚·伊万诺夫娜收到一张纸条，她已经开始平静下来，上面的笔迹让她惊恐万状。这是安娜·卡列尼娜的笔迹。信封是用像树皮一样厚的纸制成的。长方形的黄纸上有一个巨大的字母组合，信上散发着宜人的香味。

‘Who brought it?’
“谁带来的？”

‘A commissionaire from the hotel.’
“酒店的一名门卫。”

It was some time before Countess Lidia Ivanovna could sit down to read the letter. Her excitement brought on an attack of asthma, to which she was subject. When she had recovered her composure, she read the following letter in French:
过了一段时间，莉迪亚·伊万诺夫娜伯爵夫人才坐下来读这封信。她的兴奋导致了哮喘发作，她也因此患上了哮喘。当她恢复平静后，她读了下面的法语信：

‘Madame la Comtesse,
“伯爵夫人，

‘The Christian feelings with which your heart is filled give me the, I feel, unpardonable boldness to write to you. I am miserable at being separated from my son. I entreat permission to see him once before my departure. Forgive me for recalling myself to your memory. I apply to you and not to Alexey Alexandrovitch, simply because I do not wish to cause that generous man to suffer in remembering me. Knowing your friendship for him, I know you will understand me. Could you send Seryozha to me, or should I come to the house at some fixed hour, or will you let me know when and where I could see him away from home? I do not anticipate a refusal, knowing the magnanimity of him with whom it rests. You cannot conceive the craving I have to see him, and so cannot conceive the gratitude your help will arouse in me.
“我觉得，你内心充满的基督徒情感给了我不可原谅的勇气给你写信。我因与儿子分离而感到痛苦。我恳求他允许我在出发前见他一次。请原谅我让我想起了你的记忆。我向你提出请求，而不是向阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇提出请求，只是因为我不想让那个慷慨的人在记住我时遭受痛苦。知道你对他的友谊，我知道你会理解我。你能否派谢廖扎来见我，或者我应该在某个固定时间到你家来，或者你能让我知道何时何地我可以在外地见到他吗？我不认为他会拒绝，因为我知道他的宽宏大量。你无法想象我有多么渴望见到他，因此也无法想象你的帮助会激起我的感激之情。

Anna”
安娜”

Everything in this letter exasperated Countess Lidia Ivanovna: its contents and the allusion to magnanimity, and especially its free and easy—as she considered—tone.
这封信中的一切都激怒了莉迪亚·伊万诺夫娜伯爵夫人：它的内容和对宽宏大量的暗示，尤其是它自由和轻松的语气——正如她认为的那样。

‘Say that there is no answer,’ said Countess Lidia Ivanovna, and immediately opening her blotting-book, she wrote to Alexey Alexandrovitch that she hoped to see him at one o’clock at the levee.
“说没有答案，”莉迪亚·伊万诺夫娜伯爵夫人说，立即打开她的记事本，她写信给阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇，说她希望一点钟在堤坝见到他。

‘I must talk with you of a grave and painful subject. There we will arrange where to meet. Best of all at my house, where I will order tea as you like it. Urgent. He lays the cross, but He gives the strength to bear it,’ she added, so as to give him some slight preparation. Countess Lidia Ivanovna usually wrote some two or three letters a day to Alexey Alexandrovitch. She enjoyed that form of communication, which gave opportunity for a refinement and air of mystery not afforded by their personal interviews.
“我必须和你谈谈一个严肃而痛苦的话题。在那里我们将安排见面地点。最棒的是在我家，我会根据你的喜好点茶。紧迫的。他放下十字架，但他赐予力量来背负它，”她补充道，以便给他一些轻微的准备。莉迪亚·伊万诺夫娜伯爵夫人通常每天给阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇写两三封信。她喜欢这种交流方式，这种交流方式让她有机会感受到个人采访所没有的精致和神秘气氛。

Chapter 24
第24章

The levee was drawing to a close. People met as they were going away, and gossiped of the latest news, of the newly bestowed honors and the changes in the positions of the higher functionaries.
堤坝即将关闭。人们在离开时相聚，谈论最新的消息、新授予的荣誉和高级官员职位的变动。

‘If only Countess Marya Borissovna were Minister of War, and Princess Vatkovskaya were Commander-in-Chief,’ said a gray-headed, little old man in a gold-embroidered uniform, addressing a tall, handsome maid of honor who had questioned him about the new appointments.
“要是玛丽亚·鲍里索夫娜伯爵夫人当战争部长，瓦特科夫斯卡娅公主当总司令就好了。”一位身穿金绣制服、头发花白的小老头对一位高大英俊的伴娘说道。关于新的任命。

‘And me among the adjutants,’ said the maid of honor, smiling.
“我也在副官之中，”伴娘微笑着说道。

‘You have an appointment already. You’re over the ecclesiastical department. And your assistant’s Karenin.’
‘你已经有预约了。你是在教会部门。你的助手是卡列宁。

‘Good-day, prince!’ said the little old man to a man who came up to him.
“再见，王子！”小老头对一个向他走来的人说道。

‘What were you saying of Karenin?’ said the prince.
“你对卡列宁说了什么？”王子问道。

‘He and Putyatov have received the Alexander Nevsky.’
“他和普佳托夫收到了亚历山大·涅夫斯基号。”

‘I thought he had it already.’
“我以为他已经有了。”

‘No. Just look at him,’ said the little old man, pointing with his embroidered hat to Karenin in a court uniform with the new red ribbon across his shoulders, standing in the doorway of the hall with an influential member of the Imperial Council. ‘Pleased and happy as a brass farthing,’ he added, stopping to shake hands with a handsome gentleman of the bedchamber of colossal proportions.
'不。看看他，”小老头用绣花帽子指着穿着宫廷制服、肩上系着新红丝带的卡列宁说，卡列宁和一位帝国议会中颇有影响力的成员站在大厅门口。 “高兴极了，”他补充道，停下来与卧室里一位身材魁梧的英俊绅士握手。

‘No; he’s looking older,’ said the gentleman of the bedchamber.
'不; “他看上去老了。”寝室的绅士说道。

‘From overwork. He’s always drawing up projects nowadays. He won’t let a poor devil go nowadays till he’s explained it all to him under heads.’
‘由于过度劳累。他现在总是在制定项目。如今他不会放过一个可怜的家伙，除非他在头下向他解释清楚这一切。”

‘Looking older, did you say? Il fait des passions. I believe Countess Lidia Ivanovna’s jealous now of his wife.’
‘你说看起来更老了？ Il fait des 激情。我相信莉迪亚·伊万诺夫娜伯爵夫人现在嫉妒他的妻子。

‘Oh, come now, please don’t say any harm of Countess Lidia Ivanovna.’
“噢，得了吧，请不要说莉迪亚·伊万诺芙娜伯爵夫人的坏话。”

‘Why, is there any harm in her being in love with Karenin?’
“为什么，她爱上卡列宁有什么坏处吗？”

‘But is it true Madame Karenina’s here?’
“但是卡列尼娜夫人真的在这里吗？”

‘Well, not here in the palace, but in Petersburg. I met her yesterday with Alexey Vronsky, bras dessous, bras dessous, in the Morsky.’
“嗯，不是在皇宫，而是在彼得堡。昨天我和阿列克谢·渥伦斯基（Alexey Vronsky）在莫斯基（Morsky）见过她。

‘C’est un homme qui n’a pas...’ the gentleman of the bedchamber was beginning, but he stopped to make room, bowing, for a member of the Imperial family to pass.
“C'est un homme qui n'a pas...”这位寝宫绅士刚开始说，但他停下来，鞠躬，让出空间，让一位皇室成员通过。

Thus people talked incessantly of Alexey Alexandrovitch, finding fault with him and laughing at him, while he, blocking up the way of the member of the Imperial Council he had captured, was explaining to him point by point his new financial project, never interrupting his discourse for an instant for fear he should escape.
因此，人们不断地谈论阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇，找他的毛病，嘲笑他，而他却挡住了他抓获的帝国议会成员的去路，向他逐条解释他的新金融计划，从不打断他的谈话。谈话片刻，生怕他会逃跑。

Almost at the same time that his wife left Alexey Alexandrovitch there had come to him that bitterest moment in the life of an official—the moment when his upward career comes to a full stop. This full stop had arrived and everyone perceived it, but Alexey Alexandrovitch himself was not yet aware that his career was over. Whether it was due to his feud with Stremov, or his misfortune with his wife, or simply that Alexey Alexandrovitch had reached his destined limits, it had become evident to everyone in the course of that year that his career was at an end. He still filled a position of consequence, he sat on many commissions and committees, but he was a man whose day was over, and from whom nothing was expected. Whatever he said, whatever he proposed, was heard as though it were something long familiar, and the very thing that was not needed. But Alexey Alexandrovitch was not aware of this, and, on the contrary, being cut off from direct participation in governmental activity, he saw more clearly than ever the errors and defects in the action of others, and thought it his duty to point out means for their correction. Shortly after his separation from his wife, he began writing his first note on the new judicial procedure, the first of the endless series of notes he was destined to write in the future.
几乎在他的妻子离开阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇的同时，他也迎来了官员生涯中最痛苦的时刻——他的上升生涯完全停止的时刻。这个句号已经到来，每个人都意识到了这一点，但阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇本人还没有意识到他的职业生涯已经结束。无论是因为他与斯特列莫夫的不和，还是他与妻子的不幸，或者仅仅是阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇已经达到了他注定的极限，在那一年里，每个人都清楚地意识到他的职业生涯已经结束了。他仍然担任着重要的职务，担任过许多委员会的职务，但他的日子已经结束了，人们对他没有任何期望。无论他说什么，无论他提出什么建议，人们听上去都像是早已熟悉的事情，而且根本不需要。但阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇并没有意识到这一点，相反，由于无法直接参与政府活动，他比以往任何时候都更清楚地看到其他人行为中的错误和缺陷，并认为他有责任指出方法供他们纠正。与妻子分居后不久，他开始写关于新司法程序的第一篇笔记，这是他将来注定要写的无数笔记中的第一篇。

Alexey Alexandrovitch did not merely fail to observe his hopeless position in the official world, he was not merely free from anxiety on this head, he was positively more satisfied than ever with his own activity.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇不仅没有看到他在官方世界中的绝望处境，他不仅没有在这方面的焦虑，而且他对自己的活动比以往任何时候都更加满意。

‘He that is unmarried careth for the things that belong to the Lord, how he may please the Lord: But he that is married careth for the things that are of the world, how he may please his wife,’ says the Apostle Paul, and Alexey Alexandrovitch, who was now guided in every action by Scripture, often recalled this text. It seemed to him that ever since he had been left without a wife, he had in these very projects of reform been serving the Lord more zealously than before.
使徒保罗说：“未婚的，思虑主的事，如何叫主喜悦；已婚的，思虑属世的事，如何叫妻子喜悦。”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇现在的每一个行动都以圣经为指导，经常回忆起这段经文。在他看来，自从他失去妻子以来，他在这些改革计划中似乎比以前更加热心地侍奉主。

The unmistakable impatience of the member of the Council trying to get away from him did not trouble Alexey Alexandrovitch; he gave up his exposition only when the member of the Council, seizing his chance when one of the Imperial family was passing, slipped away from him.
委员会成员试图摆脱他的明显不耐烦并没有困扰阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇；直到一名枢密院成员趁一位皇室成员经过时趁机从他身边溜走时，他才放弃了阐述。

Left alone, Alexey Alexandrovitch looked down, collecting his thoughts, then looked casually about him and walked towards the door, where he hoped to meet Countess Lidia Ivanovna.
只剩下阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇低下头，整理思绪，然后漫不经心地环视四周，朝门口走去，他希望在那里见到莉迪亚·伊万诺芙娜伯爵夫人。

‘And how strong they all are, how sound physically,’ thought Alexey Alexandrovitch, looking at the powerfully built gentleman of the bedchamber with his well-combed, perfumed whiskers, and at the red neck of the prince, pinched by his tight uniform. He had to pass them on his way. ‘Truly is it said that all the world is evil,’ he thought, with another sidelong glance at the calves of the gentleman of the bedchamber.
“他们都多么强壮，身体多么健康啊，”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇一边想，一边看着这位身材魁梧、留着精心梳理、散发着香味的胡须的寝室绅士，又看着王子被紧身制服掐着的红脖子。他必须在路上经过他们。 “确实是说，全世界都是邪恶的。”他一边想，一边又斜眼看了一眼寝宫绅士的小腿。

Moving forward deliberately, Alexey Alexandrovitch bowed with his customary air of weariness and dignity to the gentleman who had been talking about him, and looking towards the door, his eyes sought Countess Lidia Ivanovna.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇小心翼翼地向前走去，以他一贯的疲倦和尊严的神情向那位正在谈论他的绅士鞠了一躬，他的目光望向门口，目光寻找着莉迪亚·伊万诺夫娜伯爵夫人。

‘Ah! Alexey Alexandrovitch!’ said the little old man, with a malicious light in his eyes, at the moment when Karenin was on a level with them, and was nodding with a frigid gesture, ‘I haven’t congratulated you yet,’ said the old man, pointing to his newly received ribbon.
'啊！阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇！”正当卡列宁和他们平起平坐，冷冷地点头的时候，小老头说道，眼里闪着恶意的光芒，“我还没有向你表示祝贺呢，”老人指着他新收到的丝带。

‘Thank you,’ answered Alexey Alexandrovitch. ‘What an exquisite day to-day,’ he added, laying emphasis in his peculiar way on the word exquisite.
“谢谢你，”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇回答。 “今天真是美好的一天，”他补充道，并以他独特的方式强调了“精致”这个词。

That they laughed at him he was well aware, but he did not expect anything but hostility from them; he was used to that by now.
他很清楚他们在嘲笑他，但他没想到他们除了敌意之外还有别的什么。他现在已经习惯了。

Catching sight of the yellow shoulders of Lidia Ivanovna jutting out above her corset, and her fine pensive eyes bidding him to her, Alexey Alexandrovitch smiled, revealing untarnished white teeth, and went towards her.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇看到莉迪亚·伊万诺夫娜黄色的肩膀从她的紧身胸衣上突出来，她那双沉思的漂亮眼睛向她招呼着他，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇微笑着，露出洁白的牙齿，朝她走去。

Lidia Ivanovna’s dress had cost her great pains, as indeed all her dresses had done of late. Her aim in dress was now quite the reverse of that she had pursued thirty years before. Then her desire had been to adorn herself with something, and the more adorned the better. Now, on the contrary, she was perforce decked out in a way so inconsistent with her age and her figure, that her one anxiety was to contrive that the contrast between these adornments and her own exterior should not be too appalling. And as far as Alexey Alexandrovitch was concerned she succeeded, and was in his eyes attractive. For him she was the one island not only of goodwill to him, but of love in the midst of the sea of hostility and jeering that surrounded him.
莉迪亚·伊万诺夫娜的这件衣服让她付出了巨大的努力，事实上她最近所有的衣服都是如此。她现在的着装目标与她三十年前所追求的目标完全相反。然后她的愿望就是用一些东西来装饰自己，而且装饰得越多越好。现在，相反，她的打扮被迫与她的年龄和身材如此不相称，以至于她唯一的焦虑就是设法使这些装饰与她自己的外表之间的对比不至于太令人震惊。就阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇而言，她成功了，并且在他眼中很有吸引力。对他来说，她不仅是对他善意的一座岛屿，而且是在他周围的敌意和嘲笑的海洋中唯一的一座爱之岛。

Passing through rows of ironical eyes, he was drawn as naturally to her loving glance as a plant to the sun.
穿过一排排讽刺的眼睛，他自然地被她充满爱意的目光吸引，就像植物被阳光吸引一样。

‘I congratulate you,’ she said to him, her eyes on his ribbon.
“我祝贺你，”她对他说，眼睛盯着他的丝带。

Suppressing a smile of pleasure, he shrugged his shoulders, closing his eyes, as though to say that that could not be a source of joy to him. Countess Lidia Ivanovna was very well aware that it was one of his chief sources of satisfaction, though he never admitted it.
他强忍住一抹愉悦的微笑，耸了耸肩，闭上了眼睛，仿佛在说这不能成为他快乐的源泉。莉迪亚·伊万诺夫娜伯爵夫人非常清楚，这是他满足的主要来源之一，尽管他从未承认这一点。

‘How is our angel?’ said Countess Lidia Ivanovna, meaning Seryozha.
“我们的天使怎么样？”莉迪亚·伊万诺夫娜伯爵夫人说，指的是谢廖扎。

‘I can’t say I was quite pleased with him,’ said Alexey Alexandrovitch, raising his eyebrows and opening his eyes. ‘And Sitnikov is not satisfied with him.’ (Sitnikov was the tutor to whom Seryozha’s secular education had been intrusted.) ‘As I have mentioned to you, there’s a sort of coldness in him towards the most important questions which ought to touch the heart of every man and every child....’ Alexey Alexandrovitch began expounding his views on the sole question that interested him besides the service—the education of his son.
“我不能说我对他很满意，”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇扬起眉毛，睁开眼睛说道。 “西特尼科夫对他并不满意。”（西特尼科夫是谢廖扎的世俗教育的导师。）“正如我向你提到的，他对最重要的问题有一种冷漠，这些问题应该触及到每个男人和每个孩子的心……”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇开始阐述他对除了服务之外唯一让他感兴趣的问题的看法——他儿子的教育。

When Alexey Alexandrovitch with Lidia Ivanovna’s help had been brought back anew to life and activity, he felt it his duty to undertake the education of the son left on his hands. Having never before taken any interest in educational questions, Alexey Alexandrovitch devoted some time to the theoretical study of the subject. After reading several books on anthropology, education, and didactics, Alexey Alexandrovitch drew up a plan of education, and engaging the best tutor in Petersburg to superintend it, he set to work, and the subject continually absorbed him.
当阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇在莉迪亚·伊万诺夫娜的帮助下重新恢复生机和活动时，他觉得自己有责任承担起教育他手上儿子的责任。阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇以前从未对教育问题感兴趣，但他花了一些时间对该主题进行理​​论研究。在阅读了几本关于人类学、教育学和教学法的书籍后，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇制定了一个教育计划，并聘请了彼得堡最好的导师来监督该计划，他开始工作，这个主题不断地吸引着他。

‘Yes, but the heart. I see in him his father’s heart, and with such a heart a child cannot go far wrong,’ said Lidia Ivanovna with enthusiasm.
‘是的，但是心。我在他身上看到了他父亲的心，有了这样的心，孩子就不会走得太远。”莉迪亚·伊万诺夫娜热情地说。

‘Yes, perhaps.... As for me, I do my duty. It’s all I can do.’
“是的，也许……至于我，我尽我的职责。”这就是我所能做的。

‘You’re coming to me,’ said Countess Lidia Ivanovna, after a pause; ‘we have to speak of a subject painful for you. I would give anything to have spared you certain memories, but others are not of the same mind. I have received a letter from her. She is here in Petersburg.’
“你来找我了，”莉迪亚·伊万诺夫娜伯爵夫人停顿了一下后说道。 “我们必须谈论一个让你痛苦的话题。我愿意付出一切来让你免受某些记忆的困扰，但其他人却并不这么想。我收到了她的来信。她在彼得堡。”

Alexey Alexandrovitch shuddered at the allusion to his wife, but immediately his face assumed the deathlike rigidity which expressed utter helplessness in the matter.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇一提到他的妻子，就浑身发抖，但他的脸立刻呈现出死一般的僵硬，表明他对这件事完全无能为力。

‘I was expecting it,’ he said.
“我早就料到了，”他说。

Countess Lidia Ivanovna looked at him ecstatically, and tears of rapture at the greatness of his soul came into her eyes.
莉迪亚·伊万诺夫娜伯爵夫人欣喜若狂地看着他，眼中流下了因他灵魂的伟大而欣喜若狂的泪水。

Chapter 25
第25章

When Alexey Alexandrovitch came into the Countess Lidia Ivanovna’s snug little boudoir, decorated with old china and hung with portraits, the lady herself had not yet made her appearance.
当阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇走进莉迪亚·伊万诺夫娜伯爵夫人舒适的小闺房时，她的闺房里装饰着旧瓷器，挂着肖像，而这位女士本人还没有出现。

She was changing her dress.
她正在换衣服。

A cloth was laid on a round table, and on it stood a china tea service and a silver spirit-lamp and tea kettle. Alexey Alexandrovitch looked idly about at the endless familiar portraits which adorned the room, and sitting down to the table, he opened a New Testament lying upon it. The rustle of the countess’s silk skirt drew his attention off.
圆桌上铺着一块布，上面放着瓷制茶具、银制酒精灯和茶壶。阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇漫不经心地看着装饰房间的无数熟悉的肖像，然后坐在桌边，打开了放在上面的一本新约圣经。伯爵夫人丝绸裙子的沙沙声转移了他的注意力。

‘Well now, we can sit quietly,’ said Countess Lidia Ivanovna, slipping hurriedly with an agitated smile between the table and the sofa, ‘and talk over our tea.’
“好了，现在我们可以安静地坐着了，”莉迪亚·伊万诺芙娜伯爵夫人带着焦躁的微笑匆匆溜进桌子和沙发之间，“一边喝茶一边聊天。”

After some words of preparation, Countess Lidia Ivanovna, breathing hard and flushing crimson, gave into Alexey Alexandrovitch’s hands the letter she had received.
一番准备之后，莉迪亚·伊万诺芙娜伯爵夫人气喘吁吁，脸色涨得通红，把她收到的信交给了阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇。

After reading the letter, he sat a long while in silence.
读完信后，他沉默地坐了良久。

‘I don’t think I have the right to refuse her,’ he said, timidly lifting his eyes.
“我认为我没有权利拒绝她，”他胆怯地抬起眼睛说道。

‘Dear friend, you never see evil in anyone!’
“亲爱的朋友，你永远看不到任何人的邪恶！”

‘On the contrary, I see that all is evil. But whether it is just...’
‘相反，我看到一切都是邪恶的。但是否只是……”

His face showed irresolution, and a seeking for counsel, support, and guidance in a matter he did not understand.
他的脸上表现出优柔寡断，并在他不理解的事情上寻求建议、支持和指导。

‘No,’ Countess Lidia Ivanovna interrupted him; ‘there are limits to everything. I can understand immorality,’ she said, not quite truthfully, since she never could understand that which leads women to immorality; ‘but I don’t understand cruelty: to whom? to you! How can she stay in the town where you are? No, the longer one lives the more one learns. And I’m learning to understand your loftiness and her baseness.’
“不，”莉迪亚·伊万诺芙娜伯爵夫人打断了他。 ‘凡事都有限度。我可以理解不道德，”她说，但并不完全真实，因为她永远无法理解是什么导致了女人不道德。 “但我不明白残酷：对谁？给你！她怎么能留在你所在的小镇呢？不，人活得越久，学到的东西就越多。我正在学习理解你的崇高和她的卑鄙。

‘Who is to throw a stone?’ said Alexey Alexandrovitch, unmistakably pleased with the part he had to play. ‘I have forgiven all, and so I cannot deprive her of what is exacted by love in her—by her love for her son....’
“谁来扔石头？”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇说道，他对自己所扮演的角色显然很满意。 “我已经原谅了一切，所以我不能剥夺她因爱而付出的一切——她对儿子的爱……”

‘But is that love, my friend? Is it sincere? Admitting that you have forgiven—that you forgive—have we the right to work on the feelings of that angel? He looks on her as dead. He prays for her, and beseeches God to have mercy on her sins. And it is better so. But now what will he think?’
“但这就是爱吗，我的朋友？是真诚的吗？承认你已经宽恕了——你宽恕了——我们有权利去影响那个天使的感受吗？他看她就像死了一样。他为她祈祷，恳求上帝怜悯她的罪孽。这样做更好。但现在他会怎么想？

‘I had not thought of that,’ said Alexey Alexandrovitch, evidently agreeing.
“我没想到这一点，”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇说道，显然同意这一点。

Countess Lidia Ivanovna hid her face in her hands and was silent. she was praying.
莉迪亚·伊万诺夫娜伯爵夫人用手捂住脸，一声不吭。她正在祈祷。

‘If you ask my advice,’ she said, having finished her prayer and uncovered her face, ‘I do not advise you to do this. Do you suppose I don’t see how you are suffering, how this has torn open your wounds? But supposing that, as always, you don’t think of yourself, what can it lead to?—to fresh suffering for you, to torture for the child. If there were a trace of humanity left in her, she ought not to wish for it herself. No, I have no hesitation in saying I advise not, and if you will intrust it to me, I will write to her.’
“如果你征求我的建议，”她完成祈祷并揭开脸说道，“我不建议你这样做。”你以为我没有看到你正在受苦，这如何撕开你的伤口吗？但假设你一如既往地不考虑自己，这会导致什么？——给你带来新的痛苦，给孩子带来折磨。如果她身上还有一丝人性的话，她自己也不应该希望有。不，我会毫不犹豫地说我不建议，如果你愿意把这件事交给我，我会写信给她。

And Alexey Alexandrovitch consented, and Countess Lidia Ivanovna sent the following letter in French:
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇同意了，莉迪亚·伊万诺芙娜伯爵夫人用法语寄出了以下信：

‘Dear Madame,
'亲爱的夫人，

‘To be reminded of you might have results for your son in leading to questions on his part which could not be answered without implanting in the child’s soul a spirit of censure towards what should be for him sacred, and therefore I beg you to interpret your husband’s refusal in the spirit of Christian love. I pray to Almighty God to have mercy on you. Countess Lidia”
“提醒你可能会给你的儿子带来一些结果，导致他提出一些问题，如果不在孩子的灵魂中植入一种对他来说神圣的事物的谴责精神，这些问题就无法得到回答，因此我请求你解释一下你的想法。”丈夫本着基督教之爱的精神拒绝了。我祈求全能的上帝怜悯你。莉迪亚伯爵夫人”

This letter attained the secret object which Countess Lidia Ivanovna had concealed from herself. It wounded Anna to the quick.
这封信达到了莉迪亚·伊万诺夫娜伯爵夫人向自己隐瞒的秘密目的。安娜受了重伤。

For his part, Alexey Alexandrovitch, on returning home from Lidia Ivanovna’s, could not all that day concentrate himself on his usual pursuits, and find that spiritual peace of one saved and believing which he had felt of late.
就阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇而言，从莉迪亚·伊万诺芙娜家回家后，一整天他都无法集中精力于他平常的追求，也无法找到他最近感受到的得救和相信的精神平安。

The thought of his wife, who had so greatly sinned against him, and towards whom he had been so saintly, as Countess Lidia Ivanovna had so justly told him, ought not to have troubled him; but he was not easy; he could not understand the book he was reading; he could not drive away harassing recollections of his relations with her, of the mistake which, as it now seemed, he had made in regard to her. The memory of how he had received her confession of infidelity on their way home from the races (especially that he had insisted only on the observance of external decorum, and had not sent a challenge) tortured him like a remorse. He was tortured too by the thought of the letter he had written her; and most of all, his forgiveness, which nobody wanted, and his care of the other man’s child made his heart burn with shame and remorse.
他的妻子对他犯下了如此大的罪，而他对她又是那么圣洁，正如莉迪亚·伊万诺夫娜伯爵夫人公正地告诉他的那样，一想到她，他不应该感到困扰；因为她对他犯下了如此大的罪，而他对她又是那么圣洁，正如莉迪亚·伊万诺夫娜伯爵夫人公正地告诉他的那样。但他并不容易；他无法理解他正在读的书；他无法驱散对他与她的关系以及他对她犯下的错误的痛苦回忆。回想起在比赛结束回家的路上，他如何收到她对不忠的坦白（尤其是他坚持只遵守外在礼仪，并没有发出挑战），就像悔恨一样折磨着他。想到自己写给她的那封信，他也感到很痛苦。最重要的是，他的宽恕（没人想要），以及他对对方孩子的照顾，让他的心因羞愧和悔恨而燃烧。

And just the same feeling of shame and regret he felt now, as he reviewed all his past with her, recalling the awkward words in which, after long wavering, he had made her an offer.
当他回顾与她的所有过去，回想起他在长期犹豫之后向她提出要约时的尴尬话语时，他现在也感到同样的羞耻和遗憾。

‘But how have I been to blame?’ he said to himself. And this question always excited another question in him—whether they felt differently, did their loving and marrying differently, these Vronskys and Oblonskys...these gentlemen of the bedchamber, with their fine calves. And there passed before his mind a whole series of these mettlesome, vigorous, selfconfident men, who always and everywhere drew his inquisitive attention in spite of himself. He tried to dispel these thoughts, he tried to persuade himself that he was not living for this transient life, but for the life of eternity, and that there was peace and love in his heart.
“但是我该受什么责备呢？”他自言自语道。这个问题总是在他心中激起另一个问题——他们的感受是否不同，他们的爱情和婚姻是否不同，这些渥伦斯基和奥布隆斯基……这些卧室里的绅士，有着他们漂亮的小腿。他的脑海中浮现出一系列勇敢、充满活力、自信的人，他们时时处处不由自主地吸引着他好奇的注意力。他试图驱散这些念头，他试图说服自己，他活着不是为了这短暂的生命，而是为了永恒的生命，他的心中有平安和爱。

But the fact that he had in this transient, trivial life made, as it seemed to him, a few trivial mistakes tortured him as though the eternal salvation in which he believed had no existence. But this temptation did not last long, and soon there was reestablished once more in Alexey Alexandrovitch’s soul the peace and the elevation by virtue of which he could forget what he did not want to remember.
但在他看来，在这短暂而琐碎的生活中，他犯了一些微不足道的错误，这一事实折磨着他，仿佛他所相信的永恒救赎并不存在。但这种诱惑并没有持续多久，不久，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇的灵魂中再次恢复了平静和崇高，凭借这种平静和提升，他可以忘记他不想记住的事情。

Chapter 26
第26章

‘Well, Kapitonitch?’ said Seryozha, coming back rosy and goodhumored from his walk the day before his birthday, and giving his overcoat to the tall old hall porter, who smiled down at the little person from the height of his long figure. ‘Well, has the bandaged clerk been here today? Did papa see him?’
“怎么样，卡皮托内奇？”谢廖扎说，他从生日前一天散步回来，脸色红润，心情愉快，他把大衣递给高个子的老门房，门房从高高的身材上朝这个小个子微笑。 “嗯，今天那个缠着绷带的店员来过吗？爸爸看到他了吗？

‘He saw him. The minute the chief secretary came out, I announced him,’ said the hall porter with a good-humored wink. ‘Here, I’ll take it off.’
‘他看见了他。首席秘书一出来，我就宣布了他的到来。”大厅搬运工幽默地眨了眨眼说道。 “给，我把它脱下来。”

‘Seryozha!’ said the tutor, stopping in the doorway leading to the inner rooms. ‘Take it off yourself.’ But Seryozha, though he heard his tutor’s feeble voice, did not pay attention to it. He stood keeping hold of the hall porter’s belt, and gazing into his face.
“谢廖扎！”导师停在通往内室的门口说道。 “你自己把它摘下来。”但是谢廖扎虽然听到了导师微弱的声音，却没有在意。他站在那里，抓住门房的腰带，凝视着他的脸。

‘Well, and did papa do what he wanted for him?’
“嗯，爸爸为他做了他想要的事吗？”

The hall porter nodded his head affirmatively. The clerk with his face tied up, who had already been seven times to ask some favor of Alexey Alexandrovitch, interested both Seryozha and the hall porter. Seryozha had come upon him in the hall, and had heard him plaintively beg the hall porter to announce him, saying that he and his children had death staring them in the face.
门房肯定地点点头。那个绑着脸的店员已经七次向阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇求救了，他引起了谢廖扎和门房的兴趣。谢廖扎在大厅里遇见了他，听到他哀怨地请求大厅看门人通知他，说他和他的孩子们正面临着死亡。

Since then Seryozha, having met him a second time in the hall, took great interest in him.
从那时起，谢廖扎在大厅里第二次见到他，就对他产生了极大的兴趣。

‘Well, was he very glad?’ he asked.
“嗯，他很高兴吗？”他问道。

‘Glad? I should think so! Almost dancing as he walked away.’
'高兴的？我应该这么想吧！他走开时几乎跳舞。

‘And has anything been left?’ asked Seryozha, after a pause.
“还剩下什么吗？”停顿了一下，谢廖扎问道。

‘Come, sir,’ said the hall-porter; then with a shake of his head he whispered, ‘Something from the countess.’
“来吧，先生。”门房说道。然后他摇了摇头，低声说道：“伯爵夫人的事。”

Seryozha understood at once that what the hall porter was speaking of was a present from Countess Lidia Ivanovna for his birthday.
谢廖扎立刻明白，门房所说的是莉迪亚·伊万诺夫娜伯爵夫人送给他的生日礼物。

‘What do you say? Where?’
'你怎么说？在哪里？'

‘Korney took it to your papa. A fine plaything it must be too!’
“科尼把它拿给你爸爸了。它一定也是一个很好的玩具！

‘How big? Like this?’
'多大？像这样？'

‘Rather small, but a fine thing.’
“虽然很小，但很好。”

‘A book.’
'一本书。'

‘No, a thing. Run along, run along, Vassily Lukitch is calling you,’ said the porter, hearing the tutor’s steps approaching, and carefully taking away from his belt the little hand in the glove half pulled off, he signed with his head towards the tutor.
‘不，是一件事。快跑，快跑，瓦西里·卢基奇在叫你。”门房听到导师的脚步声走近，小心翼翼地把戴着手套的小手从腰带上拿开，头朝导师打了个手势。

‘Vassily Lukitch, in a tiny minute!’ answered Seryozha with that gay and loving smile which always won over the conscientious Vassily Lukitch.
“瓦西里·卢基奇，一会儿就到！”谢廖扎回答道，脸上带着愉快而充满爱意的微笑，这总是赢得了认真负责的瓦西里·卢基奇的青睐。

Seryozha was too happy, everything was too delightful for him to be able to help sharing with his friend the porter the family good fortune of which he had heard during his walk in the public gardens from Lidia Ivanovna’s niece. This piece of good news seemed to him particularly important from its coming at the same time with the gladness of the bandaged clerk and his own gladness at toys having come for him. It seemed to Seryozha that this was a day on which everyone ought to be glad and happy.
谢廖扎太高兴了，一切都太令人愉快了，他无法帮助他的看门人朋友分享他在公共花园散步时从莉迪亚·伊万诺夫娜的侄女那里听到的家庭幸福。这个好消息对他来说显得特别重要，因为它的到来与缠着绷带的店员的高兴和他自己对玩具送来的高兴同时到来。在谢廖扎看来，这是每个人都应该感到高兴和幸福的一天。

‘You know papa’s received the Alexander Nevsky today?’
“你知道爸爸今天收到了亚历山大涅夫斯基号吗？”

‘To be sure I do! People have been already to congratulate him.’
“我当然愿意！”人们已经向他表示祝贺。

‘And is he glad?’
“他高兴吗？”

‘Glad at the Tsar’s gracious favor! I should think so! It’s a proof he’s deserved it,’ said the porter severely and seriously.
“很高兴得到沙皇的恩惠！我应该这么想吧！这是他应得的证明。”搬运工严肃认真地说道。

Seryozha fell to dreaming, gazing up at the face of the porter, which he had thoroughly studied in every detail, especially the chin that hung down between the gray whiskers, never seen by anyone but Seryozha, who saw him only from below.
谢廖扎陷入了梦乡，抬头凝视着搬运工的脸，他对这张脸的每一个细节都进行了彻底的研究，尤其是灰色胡须之间垂下的下巴，除了谢廖扎之外，其他人都没有见过，谢廖扎只能从下面看到他。

‘Well, and has your daughter been to see you lately?’
“嗯，你女儿最近来看过你吗？”

The porter’s daughter was a ballet dancer.
搬运工的女儿是一名芭蕾舞演员。

‘When is she to come on week-days? They’ve their lessons to learn too. And you’ve your lesson, sir; run along.’
“她工作日什么时候来？他们也有自己的教训要学习。先生，你已经得到教训了；一起跑。

On coming into the room, Seryozha, instead of sitting down to his lessons, told his tutor of his supposition that what had been brought him must be a machine. ‘What do you think?’ he inquired.
进入房间后，谢廖扎没有坐下来听课，而是告诉他的导师，他的假设是给他带来的一定是一台机器。 “你觉得怎么样？”他问道。

But Vassily Lukitch was thinking of nothing but the necessity of learning the grammar lesson for the teacher, who was coming at two.
但瓦西里·卢基奇只想着为两点就要来的老师学习语法课的必要性。

‘No, do just tell me, Vassily Lukitch,’ he asked suddenly, when he was seated at their work table with the book in his hands, ‘what is greater than the Alexander Nevsky? You know papa’s received the Alexander Nevsky?’
“不，瓦西里·卢基奇，请告诉我，”当他坐在他们的工作桌旁，手里拿着书时，他突然问道，“还有什么比《亚历山大·涅夫斯基》更伟大的呢？”你知道爸爸收到了亚历山大·涅夫斯基号吗？

Vassily Lukitch replied that the Vladimir was greater than the Alexander Nevsky.
瓦西里·卢基奇回答说，弗拉基米尔号比亚历山大·涅夫斯基号更伟大。

‘And higher still?’
“还有更高的吗？”

‘Well, highest of all is the Andrey Pervozvanny.’
“嗯，其中最高的是安德烈·佩尔沃兹瓦尼。”

‘And higher than the Andrey?’
“比安德烈号还高？”

‘I don’t know.’
'我不知道。'

‘What, you don’t know?’ and Seryozha, leaning on his elbows, sank into deep meditation.
“什么，你不知道？”谢廖扎用手肘撑着，陷入了沉思。

His meditations were of the most complex and diverse character. He imagined his father’s having suddenly been presented with both the Vladimir and the Andrey today, and in consequence being much better tempered at his lesson, and dreamed how, when he was grown up, he would himself receive all the orders, and what they might invent higher than the Andrey. Directly any higher order were invented, he would win it. They would make a higher one still, and he would immediately win that too.
他的冥想具有最复杂和多样的特征。他想象着他的父亲今天突然遇到了弗拉基米尔和安德烈，因此在他的教训中脾气好多了，并梦想着当他长大后，他将如何亲自接受所有命令，以及他们可能会做什么发明比安德烈更高。一旦发明了任何更高的秩序，他就会赢得它。他们还会做出更高的分数，而他也会立即获胜。

The time passed in such meditations, and when the teacher came, the lesson about the adverbs of place and time and manner of action was not ready, and the teacher was not only displeased, but hurt. This touched Seryozha. He felt he was not to blame for not having learned the lesson; however much he tried, he was utterly unable to do that. As long as the teacher was explaining to him, he believed him and seemed to comprehend, but as soon as he was left alone, he was positively unable to recollect and to understand that the short and familiar word ‘suddenly’ is an adverb of manner of action. Still he was sorry that he had disappointed the teacher.
时间就这样沉思过去，老师来的时候，关于地点、时间副词和动作方式的课还没有准备好，老师不仅不高兴，而且很受伤。这触动了谢廖扎。他觉得自己没有吸取教训并不应该受到责备。无论他如何努力，他都完全无法做到这一点。只要老师给他讲解，他就相信，似乎听懂了，但一离开他，他就完全想不起来，无法理解“突然”这个简短而熟悉的词是一个方式副词。的行动。但他还是很抱歉让老师失望了。

He chose a moment when the teacher was looking in silence at the book.
他选择了老师静静地看书的时刻。

‘Mihail Ivanitch, when is your birthday?’ he asked all, of a sudden.
“米哈伊尔·伊万内奇，你的生日是什么时候？”他突然问道。

‘You’d much better be thinking about your work. Birthdays are of no importance to a rational being. It’s a day like any other on which one has to do one’s work.’
“你最好考虑一下你的工作。生日对于理性的人来说并不重要。这一天就像其他任何一天一样，人们必须完成自己的工作。

Seryozha looked intently at the teacher, at his scanty beard, at his spectacles, which had slipped down below the ridge on his nose, and fell into so deep a reverie that he heard nothing of what the teacher was explaining to him. He knew that the teacher did not think what he said; he felt it from the tone in which it was said. ‘But why have they all agreed to speak just in the same manner always the dreariest and most useless stuff? Why does he keep me off; why doesn’t he love me?’ he asked himself mournfully, and could not think of an answer.
谢廖扎全神贯注地看着老师，看着他稀疏的胡须，看着他的眼镜，眼镜已经滑落到鼻梁以下，他陷入了深深的沉思，以至于他没有听到老师向他解释什么。他知道老师并没有想到他所说的话；他从说话的语气中感觉到了这一点。 “但是为什么他们都同意以同样的方式谈论最沉闷和最无用的东西？他为什么不让我靠近？他为什么不爱我？”他悲伤地问自己，却想不出答案。

Chapter 27
第27章

After the lesson with the grammar teacher came his father’s lesson. While waiting for his father, Seryozha sat at the table playing with a penknife, and fell to dreaming. Among Seryozha’s favorite occupations was searching for his mother during his walks. He did not believe in death generally, and in her death in particular, in spite of what Lidia Ivanovna had told him and his father had confirmed, and it was just because of that, and after he had been told she was dead, that he had begun looking for her when out for a walk. Every woman of full, graceful figure with dark hair was his mother. At the sight of such a woman such a feeling of tenderness was stirred within him that his breath failed him, and tears came into his eyes. And he was on the tiptoe of expectation that she would come up to him, would lift her veil. All her face would be visible, she would smile, she would hug him, he would sniff her fragrance, feel the softness of her arms, and cry with happiness, just as he had one evening lain on her lap while she tickled him, and he laughed and bit her white, ring-covered fingers. Later, when he accidentally learned from his old nurse that his mother was not dead, and his father and Lidia Ivanovna had explained to him that she was dead to him because she was wicked (which he could not possibly believe, because he loved her), he went on seeking her and expecting her in the same way. That day in the public gardens there had been a lady in a lilac veil, whom he had watched with a throbbing heart, believing it to be she as she came towards them along the path. The lady had not come up to them, but had disappeared somewhere. That day, more intensely than ever, Seryozha felt a rush of love for her, and now, waiting for his father, he forgot everything, and cut all round the edge of the table with his penknife, staring straight before him with sparkling eyes and dreaming of her.
语法老师的课结束后，是他父亲的课。在等待父亲的时候，谢廖扎坐在桌边玩着小刀，陷入了梦乡。谢廖扎最喜欢的事情之一就是在散步时寻找他的母亲。他一般不相信死亡，特别是她的死，尽管莉迪亚·伊万诺夫娜告诉过他，他的父亲也证实了这一点，也正是因为如此，在他被告知她死了之后，他出去散步时开始寻找她。每一个身材丰满、优美、黑发的女人都是他的母亲。看到这样的女人，他心中涌起一股温柔的感觉，他呼吸困难，泪水涌上眼眶。他踮着脚尖期待着她会走到他身边，揭开面纱。她的整张脸都清晰可见，她会微笑，她会拥抱他，他会闻她的芬芳，感受她手臂的柔软，幸福地哭泣，就像有一天晚上，他躺在她的腿上，她给他挠痒痒，他笑着咬了咬她戴着戒指的白手指。后来，当他无意中从老护士那里得知他的母亲没有死，而他的父亲和莉迪亚·伊万诺夫娜向他解释说，她对他来说已经死了，因为她很邪恶（他不可能相信，因为他爱她） ，他继续寻找她，并以同样的方式期待着她。那天，在公共花园里，有一位戴着淡紫色面纱的女士，当她沿着小路向他们走来时，他的心在跳动，他相信那就是她。那位女士并没有走到他们面前，而是消失在了某处。 那天，谢廖扎对她的爱比以往任​​何时候都更加强烈，现在，在等待他的父亲，他忘记了一切，用他的小刀在桌子的边缘上划了一圈，眼睛直直地盯着他，眼睛闪闪发亮。梦见她。

‘Here is your papa!’ said Vassily Lukitch, rousing him.
“这是你的爸爸！”瓦西里·卢基奇叫醒了他。

Seryozha jumped up and went up to his father, and kissing his hand, looked at him intently, trying to discover signs of his joy at receiving the Alexander Nevsky.
谢廖扎跳起来，走到他父亲面前，亲吻他的手，专注地看着他，试图找出他收到亚历山大·涅夫斯基奖章时的喜悦迹象。

‘Did you have a nice walk?’ said Alexey Alexandrovitch, sitting down in his easy chair, pulling the volume of the Old Testament to him and opening it. Although Alexey Alexandrovitch had more than once told Seryozha that every Christian ought to know Scripture history thoroughly, he often referred to the Bible himself during the lesson, and Seryozha observed this.
“你散步愉快吗？”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇说道，他坐在安乐椅上，把《旧约全书》拉到面前打开。尽管阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇不止一次告诉谢廖扎，每个基督徒都应该彻底了解圣经历史，但他在课上经常提到圣经，谢廖扎也注意到了这一点。

‘Yes, it was very nice indeed, papa,’ said Seryozha, sitting sideways on his chair and rocking it, which was forbidden. ‘I saw Nadinka’ (Nadinka was a niece of Lidia Ivanovna’s who was being brought up in her house). ‘She told me you’d been given a new star. Are you glad, papa?’
“是的，这确实非常好，爸爸，”谢廖扎说，一边坐在椅子上，一边摇晃椅子，但这是被禁止的。 “我看到了纳丁卡”（纳丁卡是莉迪亚·伊万诺夫娜的侄女，在她家里长大）。 “她告诉我你被授予了一颗新星。爸爸，你高兴吗？

‘First of all, don’t rock your chair, please,’ said Alexey Alexandrovitch. ‘And secondly, it’s not the reward that’s precious, but the work itself. And I could have wished you understood that. If you now are going to work, to study in order to win a reward, then the work will seem hard to you; but when you work’ (Alexey Alexandrovitch, as he spoke, thought of how he had been sustained by a sense of duty through the wearisome labor of the morning, consisting of signing one hundred and eighty papers), ‘loving your work, you will find your reward in it.’
“首先，请不要摇动你的椅子，”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇说。 “其次，珍贵的不是报酬，而是工作本身。我真希望你能理解这一点。如果你现在去工作、学习是为了获得报酬，那么工作对你来说会显得很辛苦；但是，当你工作时”（阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇在讲话时想到，他是如何通过一上午的繁重劳动（包括签署一百八十份文件）而被一种责任感支撑着的），“热爱你的工作，你就会从中找到你的奖励。

Seryozha’s eyes, that had been shining with gaiety and tenderness, grew dull and dropped before his father’s gaze. This was the same long-familiar tone his father always took with him, and Seryozha had learned by now to fall in with it. His father always talked to him—so Seryozha felt—as though he were addressing some boy of his own imagination, one of those boys that exist in books, utterly unlike himself. And Seryozha always tried with his father to act being the story-book boy.
谢廖扎原本闪烁着欢乐和温柔的眼睛变得暗淡，在父亲的注视下垂了下来。这是他父亲长期以来所熟悉的语气，而谢廖扎现在已经学会了融入这种语气。他的父亲总是对他说话——谢廖扎觉得——就好像他在对自己想象中的某个男孩说话，一个存在于书中的男孩，与他自己完全不同。谢廖扎总是试图和他的父亲一起扮演故事书男孩的角色。

‘You understand that, I hope?’ said his father.
“我希望你明白这一点吗？”他的父亲说道。

‘Yes, papa,’ answered Seryozha, acting the part of the imaginary boy.
“是的，爸爸，”谢廖扎回答道，扮演着想象中的男孩的角色。

The lesson consisted of learning by heart several verses out of the Gospel and the repetition of the beginning of the Old Testament. The verses from the Gospel Seryozha knew fairly well, but at the moment when he was saying them he became so absorbed in watching the sharply protruding, bony knobbiness of his father’s forehead, that he lost the thread, and he transposed the end of one verse and the beginning of another. So it was evident to Alexey Alexandrovitch that he did not understand what he was saying, and that irritated him.
该课程包括背诵福音书中的几节经文以及重复旧约的开头部分。谢廖扎对《福音书》中的诗句了如指掌，但当他说这些诗句的时候，他全神贯注地注视着他父亲额头上突出的骨节，以至于失去了线索，他把一节经文的结尾调换了位置。以及另一个的开始。因此，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇显然不明白自己在说什么，这让他很恼火。

He frowned, and began explaining what Seryozha had heard many times before and never could remember, because he understood it too well, just as that ‘suddenly’ is an adverb of manner of action. Seryozha looked with scared eyes at his father, and could think of nothing but whether his father would make him repeat what he had said, as he sometimes did. And this thought so alarmed Seryozha that he now understood nothing. But his father did not make him repeat it, and passed on to the lesson out of the Old Testament. Seryozha recounted the events themselves well enough, but when he had to answer questions as to what certain events prefigured, he knew nothing, though he had already been punished over this lesson. The passage at which he was utterly unable to say anything, and began fidgeting and cutting the table and swinging his chair, was where he had to repeat the patriarchs before the Flood. He did not know one of them, except Enoch, who had been taken up alive to heaven. Last time he had remembered their names, but now he had forgotten them utterly, chiefly because Enoch was the personage he liked best in the whole of the Old Testament, and Enoch’s translation to heaven was connected in his mind with a whole long train of thought, in which he became absorbed now while he gazed with fascinated eyes at his father’s watch-chain and a half-unbuttoned button on his waistcoat.
他皱起眉头，开始解释谢廖扎以前听过很多次却始终记不起来的话，因为他太了解了，就像“突然”是行为方式的副词一样。谢廖扎用惊恐的眼神看着父亲，脑子里只想着父亲是否会让他重复说过的话，就像他有时做的那样。这个念头让谢廖扎大吃一惊，现在他什么也不明白了。但他的父亲并没有让他重复，而是继续从旧约圣经中吸取教训。谢廖扎把这些事件本身叙述得足够清楚，但当他必须回答有关某些事件预示什么的问题时，他什么也不知道，尽管他已经因为这堂课而受到了惩罚。在这段话中，他完全说不出话来，开始坐立不安，砍桌子，摇椅子，这就是他不得不重复洪水前的族​​长的地方。除了被活着提到天上的以诺以外，他不认识其中任何一个人。上次他还记得他们的名字，现在却完全忘记了，主要是因为以诺是整部旧约中他最喜欢的人物，而以诺升天的事在他的脑海里连着一长串的思绪。他全神贯注地看着父亲的表链和背心上一颗半解开的纽扣。

In death, of which they talked to him so often, Seryozha disbelieved entirely. He did not believe that those he loved could die, above all that he himself would die. That was to him something utterly inconceivable and impossible. But he had been told that all men die; he had asked people, indeed, whom he trusted, and they too, had confirmed it; his old nurse, too, said the same, though reluctantly. But Enoch had not died, and so it followed that everyone did not die. ‘And why cannot anyone else so serve God and be taken alive to heaven?’ thought Seryozha. Bad people, that is those Seryozha did not like, they might die, but the good might all be like Enoch.
他们经常跟谢廖扎谈论死亡，但他完全不相信死亡。他不相信他所爱的人会死，尤其是他自己会死。这对于他来说，是完全不可思议、不可能的事情。但有人告诉他，所有人都会死；事实上，他曾询问过他信任的人，他们也证实了这一点。他的老保姆也说了同样的话，尽管很不情愿。但以诺并没有死，因此每个人都没有死。 “为什么其他人不能如此侍奉上帝并被活着带到天堂呢？”谢廖扎想。坏人，就是谢廖扎不喜欢的人，他们可能会死，但好人可能都像以诺一样。

‘Well, what are the names of the patriarchs?’
“那么，族长的名字是什么？”

‘Enoch, Enos—‘
“以诺，以诺斯——”

‘But you have said that already. This is bad, Seryozha, very bad. If you don’t try to learn what is more necessary than anything for a Christian,’ said his father, getting up, ‘whatever can interest you? I am displeased with you, and Piotr Ignatitch’ (this was the most important of his teachers) ‘is displeased with you.... I shall have to punish you.’
‘但你已经说过了。这很糟糕，谢廖扎，非常糟糕。如果你不努力学习对基督徒来说最重要的事情，”他的父亲站起来说道，“那么你对什么感兴趣呢？我对你感到不满，彼得·伊格纳蒂奇（这是他最重要的老师）“对你感到不满……我将不得不惩罚你。”

His father and his teacher were both displeased with Seryozha, and he certainly did learn his lessons very badly. But still it could not be said he was a stupid boy. On the contrary, he was far cleverer than the boys his teacher held up as examples to Seryozha. In his father’s opinion, he did not want to learn what he was taught. In reality he could not learn that. He could not, because the claims of his own soul were more binding on him than those claims his father and his teacher made upon him. Those claims were in opposition, and he was in direct conflict with his education. He was nine years old; he was a child; but he knew his own soul, it was precious to him, he guarded it as the eyelid guards the eye, and without the key of love he let no one into his soul. His teachers complained that he would not learn, while his soul was brimming over with thirst for knowledge. And he learned from Kapitonitch, from his nurse, from Nadinka, from Vassily Lukitch, but not from his teachers. The spring his father and his teachers reckoned upon to turn their mill-wheels had long dried up at the source, but its waters did their work in another channel.
他的父亲和老师都对谢廖扎感到不满，而且他的功课确实学得非常糟糕。但也不能说他是个傻孩子。相反，他比他的老师为谢廖扎树立的榜样的男孩们聪明得多。在他父亲看来，他不想学习别人教给他的东西。事实上他无法学到这一点。他不能，因为他自己灵魂的要求比他父亲和老师对他的要求更有约束力。这些主张是对立的，他与他所受的教育有直接冲突。那年他九岁；他还是个孩子；但他了解自己的灵魂，它对他来说很珍贵，他保护它就像眼皮保护眼睛一样，没有爱的钥匙，他不让任何人进入他的灵魂。他的老师抱怨他不肯学习，而他的灵魂却充满了求知欲。他向卡皮托内奇、他的护士、纳丁卡、瓦西里·卢基奇学习，但不是从他的老师那里学习。他的父亲和他的老师们指望用来转动水车的泉水早已在源头干涸了，但它的水却在另一个渠道中发挥了作用。

His father punished Seryozha by not letting him go to see Nadinka, Lidia Ivanovna’s niece; but this punishment turned out happily for Seryozha. Vassily Lukitch was in a good humor, and showed him how to make windmills. The whole evening passed over this work and in dreaming how to make a windmill on which he could turn himself—clutching at the sails or tying himself on and whirling round. Of his mother Seryozha did not think all the evening, but when he had gone to bed, he suddenly remembered her, and prayed in his own words that his mother tomorrow for his birthday might leave off hiding herself and come to him.
他的父亲惩罚谢廖扎，不让他去见莉迪亚·伊万诺夫娜的侄女纳丁卡。但这个惩罚对谢廖扎来说却是幸福的。瓦西里·卢基奇心情很好，向他展示了如何制作风车。整个晚上都在思考这项工作，梦想着如何制作一个风车，他可以在风车上转动——抓着船帆，或者把自己绑在上面旋转。谢廖沙整个晚上都没有想到他的母亲，但当他上床睡觉时，他突然想起了她，并用自己的话祈祷，希望他的母亲明天在他生日时不要躲藏起来，来到他身边。

‘Vassily Lukitch, do you know what I prayed for tonight extra besides the regular things?’
“瓦西里·卢基奇，你知道我今晚除了常规的事情之外还额外祈祷了什么吗？”

‘That you might learn your lessons better?’
“这样你就能更好地吸取教训？”

‘No.’
'不。'

‘Toys?’
'玩具？'

‘No. You’ll never guess. A splendid thing; but it’s a secret! When it comes to pass I’ll tell you. Can’t you guess!’
'不。你永远猜不到。一件了不起的事；但这是一个秘密！当事情发生时我会告诉你。你猜不出来吗！

‘No, I can’t guess. You tell me,’ said Vassily Lukitch with a smile, which was rare with him. ‘Come, lie down, I’m putting out the candle.’
‘不，我猜不出来。你告诉我吧，”瓦西里·卢基奇微笑着说道，这对他来说是罕见的。 “来吧，躺下，我正在熄灭蜡烛。”

‘Without the candle I can see better what I see and what I prayed for. There! I was almost telling the secret!’ said Seryozha, laughing gaily.
“没有蜡烛，我可以更好地看到我所看到的和我祈祷的东西。那里！我差点就要说出这个秘密了！”谢廖扎高兴地笑着说道。

When the candle was taken away, Seryozha heard and felt his mother. She stood over him, and with loving eyes caressed him. But then came windmills, a knife, everything began to be mixed up, and he fell asleep.
当蜡烛被拿走时，谢廖扎听到并感觉到了他的母亲。她站在他身边，用充满爱意的目光爱抚着他。但后来风车、刀子来了，一切开始变得混乱，他睡着了。

Chapter 28
第28章

On arriving in Petersburg, Vronsky and Anna stayed at one of the best hotels; Vronsky apart in a lower story, Anna above with her child, its nurse, and her maid, in a large suite of four rooms.
抵达彼得堡后，渥伦斯基和安娜住在最好的酒店之一；渥伦斯基住在楼下，安娜和她的孩子、护士和女仆住在楼上的一间有四个房间的大套房里。

On the day of his arrival Vronsky went to his brother’s. There he found his mother, who had come from Moscow on business. His mother and sister-in-law greeted him as usual: they asked him about his stay abroad, and talked of their common acquaintances, but did not let drop a single word in allusion to his connection with Anna. His brother came the next morning to see Vronsky, and of his own accord asked him about her, and Alexey Vronsky told him directly that he looked upon his connection with Madame Karenina as marriage; that he hoped to arrange a divorce, and then to marry her, and until then he considered her as much a wife as any other wife, and he begged him to tell their mother and his wife so.
抵达当天，渥伦斯基去了他哥哥家。在那里，他找到了从莫斯科出差而来的母亲。他的母亲和嫂子像往常一样向他打招呼，询问他在国外的情况，谈论他们共同的熟人，但没有提及他与安娜的关系。第二天早上，他的兄弟来看望渥伦斯基，并主动向他询问了她的情况，阿列克谢·渥伦斯基直接告诉他，他将与卡列尼娜夫人的联系视为婚姻；他希望安排离婚，然后娶她，在那之前他认为她和其他妻子一样是妻子，他恳求他把这一点告诉他们的母亲和他的妻子。

‘If the world disapproves, I don’t care,’ said Vronsky; ‘but if my relations want to be on terms of relationship with me, they will have to be on the same terms with my wife.’
“如果世界不赞成，我不在乎，”渥伦斯基说； “但如果我的亲戚想与我建立良好的关系，他们就必须与我的妻子建立同样的关系。”

The elder brother, who had always a respect for his younger brother’s judgment, could not well tell whether he was right or not till the world had decided the question; for his part he had nothing against it, and with Alexey he went up to see Anna.
哥哥一向尊重弟弟的判断，直到全世界都决定了这个问题之后，他才能清楚地判断自己的判断是否正确。就他而言，他并不反对，他和阿列克谢一起去见安娜。

Before his brother, as before everyone, Vronsky addressed Anna with a certain formality, treating her as he might a very intimate friend, but it was understood that his brother knew their real relations, and they talked about Anna’s going to Vronsky’s estate.
在他的兄弟面前，就像在所有人面前一样，渥伦斯基以某种正式的方式称呼安娜，将她视为非常亲密的朋友，但据了解，他的兄弟知道他们真正的关系，他们谈论了安娜要去渥伦斯基庄园的事情。

In spite of all his social experience Vronsky was, in consequence of the new position in which he was placed, laboring under a strange misapprehension. One would have thought he must have understood that society was closed for him and Anna; but now some vague ideas had sprung up in his brain that this was only the case in old-fashioned days, and that now with the rapidity of modern progress (he had unconsciously become by now a partisan of every sort of progress) the views of society had changed, and that the question whether they would be received in society was not a foregone conclusion. ‘Of course,’ he thought, ‘she would not be received at court, but intimate friends can and must look at it in the proper light.’ One may sit for several hours at a stretch with one’s legs crossed in the same position, if one knows that there’s nothing to prevent one’s changing one’s position; but if a man knows that he must remain sitting so with crossed legs, then cramps come on, the legs begin to twitch and to strain towards the spot to which one would like to draw them. This was what Vronsky was experiencing in regard to the world. Though at the bottom of his heart he knew that the world was shut on them, he put it to the test whether the world had not changed by now and would not receive them. But he very quickly perceived that though the world was open for him personally, it was closed for Anna. Just as in the game of cat and mouse, the hands raised for him were dropped to bar the way for Anna.
尽管渥伦斯基拥有丰富的社会经验，但由于他所处的新职位，他仍处于一种奇怪的误解之中。人们可能会认为他一定明白社会对他和安娜来说是封闭的；但事实上，他并没有意识到社会对他和安娜来说是封闭的。但现在他的脑子里突然出现了一些模糊的想法，认为这只是在老式时代的情况，而现在随着现代进步的迅速发展（他已经不知不觉地成为了各种进步的拥护者），过去的观点已经不再是过去的观点了。社会已经发生了变化，他们是否会被社会接受的问题并不是已成定局。 “当然，”他想，“她不会在法庭上受到接待，但亲密的朋友可以而且必须以适当的眼光看待它。”一个人可能会以同样的姿势盘腿一坐几个小时，如果一个人知道没有什么可以阻止他改变自己的立场；但是，如果一个人知道他必须保持双腿交叉的姿势，那么就会出现抽筋，双腿开始抽搐，并向人们想要将其拉到的地方用力。这就是渥伦斯基对于世界的体验。虽然他内心深处知道这个世界对他们关闭了，但他还是在考验这个世界是否已经改变，不会接受他们。但他很快意识到，虽然世界对他个人来说是开放的，但对安娜来说却是关闭的。就像猫捉老鼠的游戏一样，为他举起的手又垂了下来，挡住了安娜的路。

One of the first ladies of Petersburg society whom Vronsky saw was his cousin Betsy.
渥伦斯基见到的彼得堡上流社会的第一夫人之一是他的表妹贝齐。

‘At last!’ she greeted him joyfully. ‘And Anna? How glad I am! Where are you stopping? I can fancy after your delightful travels you must find our poor Petersburg horrid. I can fancy your honeymoon in Rome. How about the divorce? Is that all over?’
“终于！”她高兴地向他打招呼。 ‘安娜呢？我多么高兴啊！你在哪里停下来？我想，在您愉快的旅行之后，您一定会发现我们可怜的彼得堡很可怕。我很喜欢你在罗马度蜜月。离婚又怎样？一切都结束了吗？

Vronsky noticed that Betsy’s enthusiasm waned when she learned that no divorce had as yet taken place.
渥伦斯基注意到，当贝特西得知还没有离婚时，她的热情就减退了。

‘People will throw stones at me, I know,’ she said, ‘but I shall come and see Anna; yes, I shall certainly come. You won’t be here long, I suppose?’
“我知道人们会向我扔石头，”她说，“但我会来看安娜；是的，我一定会来。我想你不会在这里呆太久吧？

And she did certainly come to see Anna the same day, but her tone was not at all the same as in former days. She unmistakably prided herself on her courage, and wished Anna to appreciate the fidelity of her friendship. She only stayed ten minutes, talking of society gossip, and on leaving she said:
而她当天确实是来看安娜的，但语气却与往日完全不一样。她毫无疑问地为自己的勇气感到自豪，并希望安娜能够欣赏她友谊的忠诚。她只待了十分钟，谈论社会八卦，离开时她说：

‘You’ve never told me when the divorce is to be? Supposing I’m ready to fling my cap over the mill, other starchy people will give you the cold shoulder until you’re married. And that’s so simple nowadays. Ca se fait. So you’re going on Friday? Sorry we shan’t see each other again.’
“你从来没有告诉过我什么时候离婚吗？”假设我准备好把我的帽子扔到工厂里，其他顽固的人会冷落你，直到你结婚。如今这太简单了。事实如此。那你星期五去吗？抱歉，我们再也见不到对方了。”

From Betsy’s tone Vronsky might have grasped what he had to expect from the world; but he made another effort in his own family. His mother he did not reckon upon. He knew that his mother, who had been so enthusiastic over Anna at their first acquaintance, would have no mercy on her now for having ruined her son’s career. But he had more hope of Varya, his brother’s wife. He fancied she would not throw stones, and would go simply and directly to see Anna, and would receive her in her own house.
从贝特西的语气中，渥伦斯基也许已经明白了他对这个世界的期望。但他在自己的家庭中又做出了努力。他没有想到他的母亲。他知道，他的母亲在他们第一次相识时就对安娜如此热情，现在不会因为她毁了儿子的事业而对她有任何怜悯。但他对他兄长的妻子瓦莉亚（Varya）抱有更多的希望。他以为她不会扔石头，会简单直接地去见安娜，并在自己家里接待她。

The day after his arrival Vronsky went to her, and finding her alone, expressed his wishes directly.
到达的第二天，渥伦斯基去找她，发现她独自一人，就直接表达了他的愿望。

‘You know, Alexey,’ she said after hearing him, ‘how fond I am of you, and how ready I am to do anything for you; but I have not spoken, because I knew I could be of no use to you and to Anna Arkadyevna,’ she said, articulating the name ‘Anna Arkadyevna’ with particular care. ‘Don’t suppose, please, that I judge her. Never; perhaps in her place I should have done the same. I don’t and can’t enter into that,’ she said, glancing timidly at his gloomy face. ‘But one must call things by their names. You want me to go and see her, to ask her here, and to rehabilitate her in society; but do understand that I cannot do so. I have daughters growing up, and I must live in the world for my husband’s sake. Well, I’m ready to come and see Anna Arkadyevna: she will understand that I can’t ask her here, or I should have to do so in such a way that she would not meet people who look at things differently; that would offend her. I can’t raise her...’
“你知道，阿列克谢，”她听完他的话后说道，“我多么喜欢你，我多么愿意为你做任何事；但我没有说话，因为我知道我对你和安娜·阿尔卡季耶夫娜没有任何用处，”她说，特别小心地说出“安娜·阿尔卡季耶夫娜”这个名字。 “请不要以为我会评判她。绝不;也许如果我处在她的位置，也应该这样做。我不会也不能参与其中，”她说道，胆怯地看着他阴沉的脸。 “但人们必须直呼其名。你要我去看看她，请她​​到这里来，让她重新回到社会上来；但请明白我不能这样做。我有女儿长大，我必须为了丈夫而活在世上。好吧，我准备好去见安娜·阿尔卡季耶夫娜了：她会明白我不能在这里问她，否则我就得这样做，这样她就不会遇到对事物有不同看法的人；那会冒犯她。我养不起她……”

‘Oh, I don’t regard her as fallen more than hundreds of women you do receive!’ Vronsky interrupted her still more gloomily, and he got up in silence, understanding that his sister-in-law’s decision was not to be shaken.
“哦，我不认为她比你接待的数百个女人更堕落！”渥伦斯基更加沮丧地打断了她的话，然后他默默地站了起来，明白他嫂子的决定不能动摇。

‘Alexey! don’t be angry with me. Please understand that I’m not to blame,’ began Varya, looking at him with a timid smile.
‘阿列克谢！别生我的气。请理解，我不应该受到责备。”瓦里亚开始说道，带着胆怯的微笑看着他。

‘I’m not angry with you,’ he said still as gloomily; ‘but I’m sorry in two ways. I’m sorry, too, that this means breaking up our friendship—if not breaking up, at least weakening it. You will understand that for me, too, it cannot be otherwise.’
“我没有生你的气，”他仍然阴郁地说。 “但我从两方面感到抱歉。我也很抱歉，这意味着我们的友谊会破裂——如果不是破裂，至少会削弱它。你会明白，对我来说，情况也是如此。

And with that he left her.
说完他就离开了她。

Vronsky knew that further efforts were useless, and that he had to spend these few days in Petersburg as though in a strange town, avoiding every sort of relation with his own old circle in order not to be exposed to the annoyances and humiliations which were so intolerable to him. One of the most unpleasant features of his position in Petersburg was that Alexey Alexandrovitch and his name seemed to meet him everywhere. He could not begin to talk of anything without the conversation turning on Alexey Alexandrovitch; he could not go anywhere without risk of meeting him. So at least it seemed to Vronsky, just as it seems to a man with a sore finger that he is continually, as though on purpose, grazing his sore finger on everything.
渥伦斯基知道再多的努力都是无用的，他必须在彼得堡度过这几天，就像在一个陌生的小镇一样，避免与自己的老圈子发生任何关系，以免遭受到如此多的烦恼和羞辱。让他无法忍受。他在彼得堡的地位最令人不快的特点之一是阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇和他的名字似乎到处都能见到他。如果话题不转向阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇，他就无法开始谈论任何事情。他去任何地方都不可能遇到他。至少在渥伦斯基看来，就像一个手指酸痛的人似乎是故意的，他不断地用酸痛的手指擦过一切。

Their stay in Petersburg was the more painful to Vronsky that he perceived all the time a sort of new mood that he could not understand in Anna. At one time she would seem in love with him, and then she would become cold, irritable, and impenetrable. She was worrying over something, and keeping something back from him, and did not seem to notice the humiliations which poisoned his existence, and for her, with her delicate intuition, must have been still more unbearable.
他们在彼得堡的逗留对渥伦斯基来说更加痛苦，因为他一直在安娜身上感受到一种他无法理解的新情绪。有一段时间她似乎很爱他，然后她就会变得冷漠、易怒、难以捉摸。她正在为某事担心，对他有所隐瞒，似乎没有注意到那些毒害他存在的羞辱，而对于她来说，以她敏锐的直觉，一定更难以忍受。

Chapter 29
第29章

One of Anna’s objects in coming back to Russia had been to see her son. From the day she left Italy the thought of it had never ceased to agitate her. And as she got nearer to Petersburg, the delight and importance of this meeting grew ever greater in her imagination. She did not even put to herself the question how to arrange it. It seemed to her natural and simple to see her son when she should be in the same town with him. But on her arrival in Petersburg she was suddenly made distinctly aware of her present position in society, and she grasped the fact that to arrange this meeting was no easy matter.
安娜返回俄罗斯的目的之一就是看望她的儿子。从她离开意大利的那天起，这个想法就一直让她心烦意乱。随着距离彼得堡越来越近，这次会面的乐趣和重要性在她的想象中越来越强烈。她甚至没有向自己提出如何安排的问题。在她看来，当她应该和儿子在同一个城镇时，见到他似乎是很自然和简单的事。但到达彼得堡后，她突然清楚地意识到自己目前的社会地位，她意识到安排这次会面并不是一件容易的事。

She had now been two days in Petersburg. The thought of her son never left her for a single instant, but she had not yet seen him. To go straight to the house, where she might meet Alexey Alexandrovitch, that she felt she had no right to do. She might be refused admittance and insulted. To write and so enter into relations with her husband—that it made her miserable to think of doing; she could only be at peace when she did not think of her husband. To get a glimpse of her son out walking, finding out where and when he went out, was not enough for her; she had so looked forward to this meeting, she had so much she must say to him, she so longed to embrace him, to kiss him. Seryozha’s old nurse might be a help to her and show her what to do. But the nurse was not now living in Alexey Alexandrovitch’s house. In this uncertainty, and in efforts to find the nurse, two days had slipped by.
她已经在彼得堡呆了两天了。对儿子的思念一刻也没有离开过她，但她还没有见到他。直接去她可能会见阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇的房子，她觉得自己没有权利这样做。她可能会被拒绝入场并受到侮辱。写信并与她的丈夫建立关系——这让她一想到这样做就感到痛苦；只有当她不去想她的丈夫时，她才能感到平静。对她来说，仅仅瞥见儿子外出散步的样子，了解他外出的地点和时间，还不够。她是如此期待这次会面，她有太多话要对他说，她如此渴望拥抱他，亲吻他。谢廖扎的老护士可能会帮助她并告诉她该怎么做。但护士现在并不住在阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇的家里。在这种不确定性中，在努力寻找护士的过程中，两天的时间就这样过去了。

Hearing of the close intimacy between Alexey Alexandrovitch and Countess Lidia Ivanovna, Anna decided on the third day to write to her a letter, which cost her great pains, and in which she intentionally said that permission to see her son must depend on her husband’s generosity. She knew that if the letter were shown to her husband, he would keep up his character of magnanimity, and would not refuse her request.
听说阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇和莉迪亚·伊万诺芙娜伯爵夫人关系亲密，安娜决定在第三天给她写一封信，这封信费了她很大的力气，她在信中故意说，要允许她见儿子，必须取决于她丈夫的慷慨。 。她知道，如果这封信拿给她丈夫看，他一定会保持大度的性格，不会拒绝她的请求。

The commissionaire who took the letter had brought her back the most cruel and unexpected answer, that there was no answer. She had never felt so humiliated as at the moment when, sending for the commissionaire, she heard from him the exact account of how he had waited, and how afterwards he had been told there was no answer. Anna felt humiliated, insulted, but she saw that from her point of view Countess Lidia Ivanovna was right. Her suffering was the more poignant that she had to bear it in solitude. She could not and would not share it with Vronsky. She knew that to him, although he was the primary cause of her distress, the question of her seeing her son would seem a matter of very little consequence. She knew that he would never be capable of understanding all the depth of her suffering, that for his cool tone at any allusion to it she would begin to hate him. And she dreaded that more than anything in the world, and so she hid from him everything that related to her son. Spending the whole day at home she considered ways of seeing her son, and had reached a decision to write to her husband. She was just composing this letter when she was handed the letter from Lidia Ivanovna. The countess’s silence had subdued and depressed her, but the letter, all that she read between the lines in it, so exasperated her, this malice was so revolting beside her passionate, legitimate tenderness for her son, that she turned against other people and left off blaming herself.
接过信的看门人给她带回了最残酷、最出乎意料的答案：没有任何答复。当她派人去找看门人时，她从他那里听到了他如何等待的确切描述，以及后来他如何被告知没有答复的那一刻，她从未感到如此屈辱。安娜感到羞辱、侮辱，但她看到，从她的角度来看，莉迪亚·伊万诺夫娜伯爵夫人是对的。她的痛苦更加令人心酸，她必须独自承受。她不能也不会与渥伦斯基分享。她知道，对他来说，虽然他是她痛苦的主要原因，但她见儿子的问题似乎无关紧要。她知道他永远无法理解她所受的痛苦的全部深度，因为他在任何暗示时都表现出冷静的语气，她会开始恨他。她最害怕的是这个，所以她向他隐瞒了与她儿子有关的一切。她在家里待了一整天，考虑如何见到儿子，并决定给丈夫写信。她刚写完这封信，就收到了莉迪亚·伊万诺芙娜的信。伯爵夫人的沉默使她感到压抑和沮丧，但这封信，以及她从字里行间读到的一切，让她非常恼怒，这种恶意与她对儿子的热情、合理的温柔相比，是如此令人反感，以至于她转而反对其他人并离开了。不再责备自己。

‘This coldness—this pretense of feeling!’ she said to herself. ‘They must needs insult me and torture the child, and I am to submit to it! Not on any consideration! She is worse than I am. I don’t lie, anyway.’ And she decided on the spot that next day, Seryozha’s birthday, she would go straight to her husband’s house, bribe or deceive the servants, but at any cost see her son and overturn the hideous deception with which they were encompassing the unhappy child.
“这种冷漠——这种假装的感觉！”她对自己说。 ‘他们一定需要侮辱我，折磨孩子，我就只能屈服！没有任何考虑！她比我还糟糕。无论如何，我不会撒谎。”她当场决定，第二天，即谢廖扎的生日，她将直接前往她丈夫的家，贿赂或欺骗仆人，但不惜一切代价见到她的儿子，并推翻这个可怕的欺骗。他们正在包围那个不幸的孩子。

She went to a toy shop, bought toys and thought over a plan of action. She would go early in the morning at eight o’clock, when Alexey Alexandrovitch would be certain not to be up. She would have money in her hand to give the hall porter and the footman, so that they should let her in, and not raising her veil, she would say that she had come from Seryozha’s godfather to congratulate him, and that she had been charged to leave the toys at his bedside. She had prepared everything but the words she should say to her son. Often as she had dreamed of it, she could never think of anything.
她去了一家玩具店，买了玩具，并考虑了一个行动计划。她会在早上八点钟去，那时阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇肯定不会起床。她手里有钱，可以给门房和男仆，让他们让她进去，而不是揭开面纱，她会说，她是谢廖扎教父来祝贺他的，她是被指控的。把玩具留在他的床边。她已经准备好了一切，除了要对儿子说的话。很多时候，尽管她梦想着，但她却什么也想不起来。

The next day, at eight o’clock in the morning, Anna got out of a hired sledge and rang at the front entrance of her former home.
第二天早上八点，安娜下了一辆租来的雪橇，按响了她以前家的前门。

‘Run and see what’s wanted. Some lady,’ said Kapitonitch, who, not yet dressed, in his overcoat and galoshes, had peeped out of the window and seen a lady in a veil standing close up to the door. His assistant, a lad Anna did not know, had no sooner opened the door to her than she came in, and pulling a three-rouble note out of her muff put it hurriedly into his hand.
‘跑去看看有什么需要。 “有位女士，”卡皮托内奇说，他还没有穿好大衣和套鞋，就向窗外望去，看到一位戴着面纱的女士站在靠近门的地方。他的助手，一个安娜不认识的小伙子，刚给她开门，她就进来了，从手筒里掏出一张三卢布的钞票，急忙塞到他手里。

‘Seryozha—Sergey Alexeitch,’ she said, and was going on. Scrutinizing the note, the porter’s assistant stopped her at the second glass door.
“谢廖扎——谢尔盖·阿列克谢伊奇，”她说道，然后继续说下去。搬运工的助手仔细查看了纸条，在第二扇玻璃门前拦住了她。

‘Whom do you want?’ he asked.
“你想要谁？”他问道。

She did not hear his words and made no answer.
她没有听到他的话，也没有回答。

Noticing the embarrassment of the unknown lady, Kapitonitch went out to her, opened the second door for her, and asked her what she was pleased to want.
卡皮托内奇注意到这位陌生女士的尴尬，便走到她面前，为她打开第二扇门，问她想要什么。

‘From Prince Skorodumov for Sergey Alexeitch,’ she said.
“斯科罗杜莫夫王子为谢尔盖·阿列克谢伊奇写的，”她说。

‘His honor’s not up yet,’ said the porter, looking at her attentively.
“他的名誉还没有到。”门房专注地看着她说道。

Anna had not anticipated that the absolutely unchanged hall of the house where she had lived for nine years would so greatly affect her. Memories sweet and painful rose one after another in her heart, and for a moment she forgot what she was here for.
安娜没想到，她住了九年的房子，一成不变的大厅会对她产生如此大的影响。甜蜜与痛苦的记忆在她心头接连升起，一时间她忘记了自己来这里的目的。

‘Would you kindly wait?’ said Kapitonitch, taking off her fur cloak.
“请稍等一下好吗？”卡皮托内奇脱下毛皮斗篷说道。

As he took off the cloak, Kapitonitch glanced at her face, recognized her, and made her a low bow in silence.
当卡皮托内奇脱下斗篷时，他瞥了一眼她的脸，认出了她，默默地向她深深鞠了一躬。

‘Please walk in, your excellency,’ he said to her.
“请进，阁下，”他对她说。

She tried to say something, but her voice refused to utter any sound; with a guilty and imploring glance at the old man she went with light, swift steps up the stairs. Bent double, and his galoshes catching in the steps, Kapitonitch ran after her, trying to overtake her.
她想说什么，但她的声音却发不出声音；她愧疚而恳求地看了老人一眼，迈着轻快的步伐走上楼梯。卡皮托内奇弯着腰，胶鞋踩住了脚步，追赶着她，想要追上她。

‘The tutor’s there; maybe he’s not dressed. I’ll let him know.’
‘导师在那儿；也许他没穿衣服。我会让他知道的。

Anna still mounted the familiar staircase, not understanding what the old man was saying.
安娜依然走上熟悉的楼梯，不明白老人在说什么。

‘This way, to the left, if you please. Excuse its not being tidy. His honor’s in the old parlor now,’ the hall porter said, panting. ‘Excuse me, wait a little, your excellency; I’ll just see,’ he said, and overtaking her, he opened the high door and disappeared behind it. Anna stood still waiting. ‘He’s only just awake,’ said the hall porter, coming out. And at the very instant the porter said this, Anna caught the sound of a childish yawn. From the sound of this yawn alone she knew her son and seemed to see him living before her eyes.
“请这边走，往左边走。”原谅它不整洁。现在他的荣誉在旧客厅里，”门房气喘吁吁地说。 “对不起，请稍等一下，阁下；我去看看，”他说，然后超越了她，打开了高门，消失在门后。安娜静静地站着等待。 “他才刚刚醒。”门房走出来说道。而就在门房说这句话的同时，安娜听到了孩子气的哈欠声。仅凭这个哈欠的声音，她就认出了她的儿子，似乎看到他就活在她的眼前。

‘Let me in; go away!’ she said, and went in through the high doorway. On the right of the door stood a bed, and sitting up in the bed was the boy. His little body bent forward with his nightshirt unbuttoned, he was stretching and still yawning. The instant his lips came together they curved into a blissfully sleepy smile, and with that smile he slowly and deliciously rolled back again.
'让我进去;走开！”她说着，就从高高的门口走了进去。门的右边放着一张床，床上坐着的是男孩。他小小的身子向前倾着，睡衣扣子解开，伸了个懒腰，还在打哈欠。他的嘴唇一合上，就弯成了一个幸福的睡意微笑，带着这个微笑，他又慢慢地、美味地卷了回来。

‘Seryozha!’ she whispered, going noiselessly up to him.
“谢廖扎！”她低声说道，悄无声息地走到他面前。

When she was parted from him, and all this latter time when she had been feeling a fresh rush of love for him, she had pictured him as he was at four years old, when she had loved him most of all. Now he was not even the same as when she had left him; he was still further from the four-year-old baby, more grown and thinner. How thin his face was, how short his hair was! What long hands! How he had changed since she left him! But it was he with his head, his lips, his soft neck and broad little shoulders.
当她与他分开时，当她对他感到一股新的爱的冲动时，她想象着他四岁时的样子，那时她最爱他。现在他已经和她离开时不一样了。他离四岁的婴儿还很远，更长大了，也更瘦了。他的脸多瘦，头发多短！手多长啊！自从她离开他之后，他发生了多么大的变化啊！但这是他的头、嘴唇、柔软的脖子和宽阔的小肩膀。

‘Seryozha!’ she repeated just in the child’s ear.
“谢廖扎！”她在孩子耳边重复道。

He raised himself again on his elbow, turned his tangled head from side to side as though looking for something, and opened his eyes. Slowly and inquiringly he looked for several seconds at his mother standing motionless before him, then all at once he smiled a blissful smile, and shutting his eyes, rolled not backwards but towards her into her arms.
他再次用肘部撑起身子，把纠结的头从一边转到另一边，好像在寻找什么，然后睁开了眼睛。他慢慢地、好奇地看了几秒钟，一动不动地站在他面前的母亲，然后突然露出幸福的微笑，闭上眼睛，不是向后滚动，而是朝她的怀里滚去。

‘Seryozha! my darling boy!’ she said, breathing hard and putting her arms round his plump little body. ‘Mother!’ he said, wriggling about in her arms so as to touch her hands with different parts of him.
‘谢廖扎！我亲爱的孩子！”她喘着粗气，用双臂搂住他丰满的小身体。 “妈妈！”他一边说，一边在她怀里扭动着，用自己身体的不同部位触碰她的手。

Smiling sleepily still with closed eyes, he flung fat little arms round her shoulders, rolled towards her, with the delicious sleepy warmth and fragrance that is only found in children, and began rubbing his face against her neck and shoulders.
他闭着眼睛，睡眼惺忪地微笑着，用肥胖的小手臂搂住她的肩膀，向她滚动，带着只有孩子才能找到的美味的睡意温暖和香味，然后开始用脸在她的脖子和肩膀上摩擦。

‘I know,’ he said, opening his eyes; ‘it’s my birthday today. I knew you’d come. I’ll get up directly.’
“我知道，”他睁开眼睛说。 '今天​​是我的生日。我就知道你会来。我会直接起床。

And saying that he dropped asleep.
并说着就睡着了。

Anna looked at him hungrily; she saw how he had grown and changed in her absence. She knew, and did not know, the bare legs so long now, that were thrust out below the quilt, those short-cropped curls on his neck in which she had so often kissed him. She touched all this and could say nothing; tears choked her.
安娜饥渴地看着他。她看到他在她不在的时候如何成长和改变。她知道，又不知道，那双裸露的腿现在那么长，伸到被子下面，脖子上那些她经常亲吻他的短卷发。她摸着这一切，却什么也说不出来；泪水噎住了她。

‘What are you crying for, mother?’ he said, waking completely up. ‘Mother, what are you crying for?’ he cried in a tearful voice.
“你哭什么，妈妈？”他完全醒了过来，问道。 “妈妈，你哭什么？”他泪流满面地喊道。

‘I won’t cry...I’m crying for joy. It’s so long since I’ve seen you. I won’t, I won’t,’ she said, gulping down her tears and turning away. ‘Come, it’s time for you to dress now,’ she added, after a pause, and, never letting go his hands, she sat down by his bedside on the chair, where his clothes were put ready for him.
“我不会哭……我是因为高兴而哭。”我已经很久没有见到你了。我不会，我不会。”她说着，咽下泪水，转身走开。 “来吧，现在你该穿衣服了。”停顿了一下，她补充道，并没有放开他的手，她在他床边的椅子上坐下，那里已经为他准备好了衣服。

‘How do you dress without me? How...’ she tried to begin talking simply and cheerfully, but she could not, and again she turned away.
‘没有我你怎么穿？怎么……”她试图简单而愉快地说话，但她做不到，于是她再次转过身去。

‘I don’t have a cold bath, papa didn’t order it. And you’ve not seen Vassily Lukitch? He’ll come in soon. Why, you’re sitting on my clothes!’
“我没有洗冷水澡，爸爸没有吩咐。”你还没见过瓦西里·卢基奇吗？他很快就会进来。为什么，你坐在我的衣服上！

And Seryozha went off into a peal of laughter. She looked at him and smiled.
谢廖扎哈哈大笑起来。她看着他，微笑着。

‘Mother, darling, sweet one!’ he shouted, flinging himself on her again and hugging her. It was as though only now, on seeing her smile, he fully grasped what had happened.
“妈妈，亲爱的，亲爱的！”他喊道，再次扑向她并拥抱她。仿佛直到现在，看到她的笑容，他才完全明白发生了什么事。

‘I don’t want that on,’ he said, taking off her hat. And as it were, seeing her afresh without her hat, he fell to kissing her again.
“我不想戴上它，”他说着，摘下了她的帽子。就好像，当他再次看到她没戴帽子时，他又开始亲吻她了。

‘But what did you think about me? You didn’t think I was dead?’
‘但是你觉得我怎么样？你以为我没死吗？

‘I never believed it.’
“我从来不相信。”

‘You didn’t believe it, my sweet?’
“你不相信吗，亲爱的？”

‘I knew, I knew!’ he repeated his favorite phrase, and snatching the hand that was stroking his hair, he pressed the open palm to his mouth and kissed it.
“我知道，我知道！”他重复着他最喜欢的一句话，然后抓住抚摸着他头发的手，将张开的手掌按在嘴上，吻了吻它。

Chapter 30
第30章

Meanwhile Vassily Lukitch had not at first understood who this lady was, and had learned from their conversation that it was no other person than the mother who had left her husband, and whom he had not seen, as he had entered the house after her departure. He was in doubt whether to go in or not, or whether to communicate with Alexey Alexandrovitch. Reflecting finally that his duty was to get Seryozha up at the hour fixed, and that it was therefore not his business to consider who was there, the mother or anyone else, but simply to do his duty, he finished dressing, went to the door and opened it.
与此同时，瓦西里·卢基奇一开始并不明白这位女士是谁，从他们的谈话中得知，不是别人，正是离开她丈夫的母亲，而他在她离开后进入了房子，所以他没有见过她。 。他犹豫着是否要进去，或者是否要与阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇沟通。最后，他想到自己的职责是在规定的时间叫谢廖扎起床，因此，他不需要考虑谁在场，是母亲还是其他任何人，而只是履行自己的职责，他穿好衣服，走到门口。并打开它。

But the embraces of the mother and child, the sound of their voices, and what they were saying, made him change his mind.
但母子俩的拥抱、他们的声音、他们的谈话，让他改变了主意。

He shook his head, and with a sigh he closed the door. ‘I’ll wait another ten minutes,’ he said to himself, clearing his throat and wiping away tears.
他摇摇头，叹了一口气，关上了门。 “我再等十分钟，”他自言自语道，清了清嗓子，擦去了眼泪。

Among the servants of the household there was intense excitement all this time. All had heard that their mistress had come, and that Kapitonitch had let her in, and that she was even now in the nursery, and that their master always went in person to the nursery at nine o’clock, and every one fully comprehended that it was impossible for the husband and wife to meet, and that they must prevent it. Korney, the valet, going down to the hall porter’s room, asked who had let her in, and how it was he had done so, and ascertaining that Kapitonitch had admitted her and shown her up, he gave the old man a talking-to. The hall porter was doggedly silent, but when Korney told him he ought to be sent away, Kapitonitch darted up to him, and waving his hands in Korney’s face, began:
家里的仆人们心中一直充满着强烈的兴奋。大家都听说他们的女主人来了，卡皮托内奇让她进来了，而且她现在还在育婴室里，而且他们的主人总是在九点钟亲自去育婴室，每个人都充分理解了这一点。夫妻俩不可能见面，必须阻止。仆人科尔尼走到门房的房间，问谁让她进来的，他是怎么做到的，并确定卡皮托内奇已经接纳了她并带她进来，他对老人进行了交谈。 。门房顽固地保持沉默，但是当科尼告诉他应该被送走时，卡皮托内奇冲到他面前，在科尼脸上挥舞着双手，开始说道：

‘Oh yes, to be sure you’d not have let her in! After ten years’ service, and never a word but of kindness, and there you’d up and say, ‘Be off, go along, get away with you!’ Oh yes, you’re a shrewd one at politics, I dare say! You don’t need to be taught how to swindle the master, and to filch fur coats!’
‘哦，是的，你肯定不会让她进来的！经过十年的服务，除了善意之外，从来没有说过一句话，然后你会站起来说：“走吧，走吧，走开！”哦，是的，你在政治上是个精明的人，我敢说说！不用教你怎么骗主子，怎么偷皮大衣！

‘Soldier!’ said Korney contemptuously, and he turned to the nurse who was coming in. ‘Here, what do you think, Marya Efimovna: he let her in without a word to anyone,’ Korney said addressing her. ‘Alexey Alexandrovitch will be down immediately—and go into the nursery!’
“士兵！”科尼轻蔑地说，然后转向进来的护士。“看，你觉得怎么样，玛丽亚·埃菲莫夫娜：他没有对任何人说一句话就让她进来了，”科尼对她说道。 “阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇马上就下来——去育婴室！”

‘A pretty business, a pretty business!’ said the nurse. ‘You, Korney Vassilievitch, you’d best keep him some way or other, the master, while I’ll run and get her away somehow. A pretty business!’
“真是一桩好事，一桩好事！”护士说。 “你，科尔尼·瓦西里耶维奇，你最好以某种方式留住他，主人，而我会跑去想办法把她带走。生意不错！

When the nurse went into the nursery, Seryozha was telling his mother how he and Nadinka had had a fall in sledging downhill, and had turned over three times. She was listening to the sound of his voice, watching his face and the play of expression on it, touching his hand, but she did not follow what he was saying. She must go, she must leave him,—this was the only thing she was thinking and feeling. She heard the steps of Vassily Lukitch coming up to the door and coughing; she heard, too, the steps of the nurse as she came near; but she sat like one turned to stone, incapable of beginning to speak or to get up.
当护士走进育婴室时，谢廖扎正在告诉他的母亲，他和纳丁卡在下坡雪橇时摔倒了，翻了三次。她听着他的声音，看着他的脸和脸上的表情，抚摸着他的手，但她没有听懂他在说什么。她必须走，她必须离开他——这是她唯一的想法和感受。她听到瓦西里·卢基奇走到门口咳嗽的脚步声。当护士走近时，她也听到了脚步声。但她像石化一样坐着，无法说话，也无法起身。

‘Mistress, darling!’ began the nurse, going up to Anna and kissing her hands and shoulders. ‘God has brought joy indeed to our boy on his birthday. You aren’t changed one bit.’
“女主人，亲爱的！”护士走到安娜面前，亲吻她的手和肩膀。 “上帝确实在我们儿子的生日那天给他带来了欢乐。你一点也没有改变。

‘Oh, nurse dear, I didn’t know you were in the house,’ said Anna, rousing herself for a moment.
“噢，亲爱的护士，我不知道你在屋子里。”安娜一下子清醒过来说道。

‘I’m not living here, I’m living with my daughter. I came for the birthday, Anna Arkadyevna, darling!’
“我不住在这里，我和我女儿住在一起。我是来过生日的，安娜·阿尔卡季耶夫娜，亲爱的！

The nurse suddenly burst into tears, and began kissing her hand again.
护士突然泪流满面，又开始亲吻她的手。

Seryozha, with radiant eyes and smiles, holding his mother by one hand and his nurse by the other, pattered on the rug with his fat little bare feet. The tenderness shown by his beloved nurse to his mother threw him into an ecstasy.
谢廖扎眼睛闪闪发亮，笑容满面，一只手牵着母亲，另一只手牵着保姆，肥肥的小赤脚在地毯上啪嗒啪嗒地走着。他心爱的护士对母亲表现出的温柔让他欣喜若狂。

‘Mother! She often comes to see me, and when she comes...’ he was beginning, but he stopped, noticing that the nurse was saying something in a whisper to his mother, and that in his mother’s face there was a look of dread and something like shame, which was so strangely unbecoming to her.
'母亲！她经常来看我，当她来的时候……”他正要开口，但他停了下来，注意到护士正在小声地对他母亲说着什么，而他母亲的脸上露出了恐惧和恐惧的表情。像是羞耻之类的东西，这对她来说是多么奇怪的不合适。

She went up to him.
她走到他身边。

‘My sweet!’ she said.
“我的宝贝！”她说。

She could not say good-bye, but the expression on her face said it, and he understood. ‘Darling, darling Kootik!’ she used the name by which she had called him when he was little, ‘you won’t forget me? You...’ but she could not say more.
她无法说再见，但她脸上的表情已经说明了这一点，他明白了。 “亲爱的，亲爱的库提克！”她用了他小时候的名字，“你不会忘记我吧？你……”但她无法再说更多。

How often afterwards she thought of words she might have said. But now she did not know how to say it, and could say nothing. But Seryozha knew all she wanted to say to him. He understood that she was unhappy and loved him. He understood even what the nurse had whispered. He had caught the words ‘always at nine o’clock,’ and he knew that this was said of his father, and that his father and mother could not meet. That he understood, but one thing he could not understand—why there should be a look of dread and shame in her face?... She was not in fault, but she was afraid of him and ashamed of something. He would have liked to put a question that would have set at rest this doubt, but he did not dare; he saw that she was miserable, and he felt for her. Silently he pressed close to her and whispered, ‘Don’t go yet. He won’t come just yet.’
事后她常常想起自己可能说过的话。但现在她不知道该怎么说，什么也说不出来。但谢廖扎知道她想对他说的一切。他明白她不快乐，也爱他。他甚至听懂了护士低声说的话。他听出了‘总是九点钟’这几个字，他知道这是对他父亲说的，而且他的父亲和母亲不能见面。他明白，但有一件事他无法理解——为什么她的脸上要露出恐惧和羞愧的表情？他本想提出一个问题来消除这个疑虑，但他不敢；他看到她很痛苦，他为她感到难过。他默默地贴近她，低声道：“你别走。”他还不会来。

The mother held him away from her to see what he was thinking, what to say to him, and in his frightened face she read not only that he was speaking of his father, but, as it were, asking her what he ought to think about his father.
母亲把他拉开，看看他在想什么，对他说什么，从他惊恐的脸上，她不仅看出他在谈论他的父亲，而且可以说是在问她他应该怎么想。关于他的父亲。

‘Seryozha, my darling,’ she said, ‘love him; he’s better and kinder than I am, and I have done him wrong. When you grow up you will judge.’
“谢廖扎，亲爱的，”她说，“爱他；他比我更好、更友善，但我错待了他。等你长大了，你就会做出判断。”

‘There’s no one better than you!...’ he cried in despair through his tears, and, clutching her by the shoulders, he began squeezing her with all his force to him, his arms trembling with the strain.
“没有人比你更好了！……”他泪流满面，绝望地喊道，然后抓住她的肩膀，开始用尽全力挤压她，双臂因用力而颤抖。

‘My sweet, my little one!’ said Anna, and she cried as weakly and childishly as he.
“我的宝贝，我的小宝贝！”安娜说道，她的哭声和他一样虚弱而幼稚。

At that moment the door opened. Vassily Lukitch came in.
就在这时，门开了。瓦西里·卢基奇进来了。

At the other door there was the sound of steps, and the nurse in a scared whisper said, ‘He’s coming,’ and gave Anna her hat.
另一扇门传来脚步声，护士惊恐地低声说道：“他来了。”然后把帽子递给了安娜。

Seryozha sank onto the bed and sobbed, hiding his face in his hands. Anna removed his hands, once more kissed his wet face, and with rapid steps went to the door. Alexey Alexandrovitch walked in, meeting her. Seeing her, he stopped short and bowed his head.
谢廖扎倒在床上抽泣，双手捂住脸。安娜松开手，再次吻了一下他湿漉漉的脸，快步向门口走去。阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇走进来迎接她。看到她，他突然停了下来，低下了头。

Although she had just said he was better and kinder than she, in the rapid glance she flung at him, taking in his whole figure in all its details, feelings of repulsion and hatred for him and jealousy over her son took possession of her. With a swift gesture she put down her veil, and, quickening her pace, almost ran out of the room.
虽然她刚刚还说他比她优秀、善良，但是当她快速地扫了他一眼，将他的整个身形、细节都看清的时候，一种对他的厌恶和仇恨以及对儿子的嫉妒占据了她的心。她飞快地放下了面纱，加快了脚步，几乎是跑出了房间。

She had not time to undo, and so carried back with her, the parcel of toys she had chosen the day before in a toy shop with such love and sorrow.
她来不及拆开，于是带着她前一天在玩具店里带着如此爱和悲伤挑选的那包玩具回来了。

Chapter 31
第31章

As intensely as Anna had longed to see her son, and long as she had been thinking of it and preparing herself for it, she had not in the least expected that seeing him would affect her so deeply. On getting back to her lonely rooms in the hotel she could not for a long while understand why she was there. ‘Yes, it’s all over, and I am again alone,’ she said to herself, and without taking off her hat she sat down in a low chair by the hearth. Fixing her eyes on a bronze clock standing on a table between the windows, she tried to think.
尽管安娜非常渴望见到她的儿子，尽管她一直在思考并为此做好准备，但她丝毫没有想到见到他会对她产生如此深远的影响。回到旅馆里她孤独的房间后，她很长一段时间都不明白自己为什么会在那里。 “是的，一切都结束了，我又孤身一人了。”她自言自语道，然后没有摘下帽子，就在炉边的一张矮椅子上坐了下来。她盯着窗户之间桌子上的青铜钟，试图思考。

The French maid brought from abroad came in to suggest she should dress. She gazed at her wonderingly and said, ‘Presently.’ A footman offered her coffee. ‘Later on,’ she said.
从国外带来的法国女佣进来建议她穿好衣服。她疑惑地看着她，说道：“现在。”一名男仆给她递了咖啡。 “稍后再说吧，”她说。

The Italian nurse, after having taken the baby out in her best, came in with her, and brought her to Anna. The plump, well-fed little baby, on seeing her mother, as she always did, held out her fat little hands, and with a smile on her toothless mouth, began, like a fish with a float, bobbing her fingers up and down the starched folds of her embroidered skirt, making them rustle. It was impossible not to smile, not to kiss the baby, impossible not to hold out a finger for her to clutch, crowing and prancing all over; impossible not to offer her a lip which she sucked into her little mouth by way of a kiss. And all this Anna did, and took her in her arms and made her dance, and kissed her fresh little cheek and bare little elbows; but at the sight of this child it was plainer than ever to her that the feeling she had for her could not be called love in comparison with what she felt for Seryozha. Everything in this baby was charming, but for some reason all this did not go deep to her heart. On her first child, though the child of an unloved father, had been concentrated all the love that had never found satisfaction. Her baby girl had been born in the most painful circumstances and had not had a hundredth part of the care and thought which had been concentrated on her first child. Besides, in the little girl everything was still in the future, while Seryozha was by now almost a personality, and a personality dearly loved. In him there was a conflict of thought and feeling; he understood her, he loved her, he judged her, she thought, recalling his words and his eyes. And she was forever—not physically only but spiritually—divided from him, and it was impossible to set this right.
意大利护士在尽力把婴儿抱出来后，陪着她进来，把她带到了安娜身边。那个吃得饱饱的胖乎乎的小宝贝，一看到妈妈，一如既往地伸出胖胖的小手，没牙的嘴上带着微笑，开始像一条浮在水面上的鱼一样，手指上下摆动。绣花裙子浆过的褶皱发出沙沙声。不可能不微笑，不亲吻婴儿，不可能不伸出一根手指让她抓着，浑身啼叫，腾跃；不可能不给她一个嘴唇，她以吻的方式把它吸进她的小嘴里。安娜做了这一切，把她抱在怀里，让她跳舞，亲吻她新鲜的小脸颊和裸露的小肘部；但一看到这个孩子，她就比以往更加清楚地意识到，与她对谢廖扎的感情相比，她对她的感情不能称为爱。这个婴儿的一切都是迷人的，但不知为何这一切并没有深入她的内心。她的第一个孩子，虽然是一个不被爱的父亲的孩子，但却集中了所有从未得到满足的爱。她的女婴是在最痛苦的情况下出生的，没有得到她第一个孩子百分之一的关心和思考。此外，对于这个小女孩来说，一切都还停留在未来，而谢廖扎现在几乎已经是一个有个性的人了，而且是一个深受喜爱的人。他的思想和感情之间存在着冲突。他理解她，他爱她，他评判她，她想，回想起他的话语和眼睛。她永远地——不仅是身体上的，而且是精神上的——与他分离，而且不可能纠正这种情况。

She gave the baby back to the nurse, let her go, and opened the locket in which there was Seryozha’s portrait when he was almost of the same age as the girl. She got up, and, taking off her hat, took up from a little table an album in which there were photographs of her son at different ages. She wanted to compare them, and began taking them out of the album. She took them all out except one, the latest and best photograph. In it he was in a white smock, sitting astride a chair, with frowning eyes and smiling lips. It was his best, most characteristic expression. With her little supple hands, her white, delicate fingers, that moved with a peculiar intensity today, she pulled at a corner of the photograph, but the photograph had caught somewhere, and she could not get it out. There was no paper knife on the table, and so, pulling out the photograph that was next to her son’s (it was a photograph of Vronsky taken at Rome in a round hat and with long hair), she used it to push out her son’s photograph. ‘Oh, here is he!’ she said, glancing at the portrait of Vronsky, and she suddenly recalled that he was the cause of her present misery. She had not once thought of him all the morning. But now, coming all at once upon that manly, noble face, so familiar and so dear to her, she felt a sudden rush of love for him.
她把孩子还给护士，让她走，然后打开挂坠盒，里面有谢廖扎的肖像，当时他几乎和女孩同龄。她站起来，摘下帽子，从小桌子上拿起一本相册，里面有她儿子不同年龄段的照片。她想对它们进行比较，并开始将它们从相册中取出。她把所有照片都拿出来，只留下一张，最新最好的照片。照片中，他穿着一件白色罩衫，跨坐在椅子上，眉头紧锁，嘴唇微笑。这是他最好的、最有特色的表情。她用她那双柔软的小手，她白皙细腻的手指，今天以一种奇特的力度，拉着照片的一角，但照片卡在了某个地方，她拿不出来。桌子上没有裁纸刀，于是，她拿出儿子旁边的照片（这是一张渥伦斯基在罗马拍摄的照片，戴着圆帽，留着长发），用它推出了儿子的照片。照片。 “哦，他在这里！”她说，看了一眼渥伦斯基的肖像，她突然想起他是她目前痛苦的根源。整个上午她都没有想起过他。但现在，当她突然看到那张充满男子气概、高贵的脸庞时，她是如此熟悉，如此亲切，她突然对他产生了一股爱意。

‘But where is he? How is it he leaves me alone in my misery?’ she thought all at once with a feeling of reproach, forgetting she had herself kept from him everything concerning her son. She sent to ask him to come to her immediately; with a throbbing heart she awaited him, rehearsing to herself the words in which she would tell him all, and the expressions of love with which he would console her. The messenger returned with the answer that he had a visitor with him, but that he would come immediately, and that he asked whether she would let him bring with him Prince Yashvin, who had just arrived in Petersburg. ‘He’s not coming alone, and since dinner yesterday he has not seen me,’ she thought; ‘he’s not coming so that I could tell him everything, but coming with Yashvin.’ And all at once a strange idea came to her: what if he had ceased to love her?
‘可是他在哪儿呢？他怎么把我一个人留在痛苦之中呢？”她立刻带着一种责备的心情想道，忘记了她自己向他隐瞒了有关她儿子的一切。她派人请他立即来找她。她怀着一颗悸动的心等待着他，心里默念着要告诉他一切的话，以及他要安慰她的爱的表达。信使回来后回答说，他有一位访客，但他会立即赶来，并询问她是否允许他带上刚刚抵达彼得堡的亚什温王子。 “他不是一个人来的，自从昨天吃晚饭后，他就没有见过我了，”她想。 “他来不是为了让我告诉他一切，而是和亚什文一起来。”突然，她想到了一个奇怪的想法：如果他不再爱她了怎么办？

And going over the events of the last few days, it seemed to her that she saw in everything a confirmation of this terrible idea. The fact that he had not dined at home yesterday, and the fact that he had insisted on their taking separate sets of rooms in Petersburg, and that even now he was not coming to her alone, as though he were trying to avoid meeting her face to face.
回顾过去几天发生的事情，她觉得一切都证实了这个可怕的想法。事实上他昨天没有在家吃饭，事实上他坚持要他们在彼得堡分房，而且即使现在他也没有单独来找她，就好像他在努力避免见到她的脸一样。面对。

‘But he ought to tell me so. I must know that it is so. If I knew it, then I know what I should do,’ she said to herself, utterly unable to picture to herself the position she would be in if she were convinced of his not caring for her. She thought he had ceased to love her, she felt close upon despair, and consequently she felt exceptionally alert. She rang for her maid and went to her dressing room. As she dressed, she took more care over her appearance than she had done all those days, as though he might, if he had grown cold to her, fall in love with her again because she had dressed and arranged her hair in the way most becoming to her.
“但他应该这样告诉我。我必须知道确实如此。如果我知道这一点，那么我就知道我应该做什么，”她对自己说，完全无法想象如果她确信他不关心她，她会处于什么境地。她以为他已经不再爱她了，她感到濒临绝望，因而感到格外警觉。她按铃叫来女仆，然后去了更衣室。当她穿衣服时，她比这些天更加注意自己的外表，仿佛如果他对她冷淡了，他可能会再次爱上她，因为她把自己的穿着和头发打理得最漂亮。成为她。

She heard the bell ring before she was ready. When she went into the drawing room it was not he, but Yashvin, who met her eyes. Vronsky was looking through the photographs of her son, which she had forgotten on the table, and he made no haste to look round at her.
还没等她准备好，她就听到铃声响起。当她走进客厅时，映入眼帘的不是他，而是亚什文。渥伦斯基正在翻阅她儿子的照片，她把照片忘在桌子上了，他并没有急着回头看她。

‘We have met already,’ she said, putting her little hand into the huge hand of Yashvin, whose bashfulness was so queerly out of keeping with his immense frame and coarse face. ‘We met last year at the races. Give them to me,’ she said, with a rapid movement snatching from Vronsky the photographs of her son, and glancing significantly at him with flashing eyes. ‘Were the races good this year? Instead of them I saw the races in the Corso in Rome. But you don’t care for life abroad,’ she said with a cordial smile. ‘I know you and all your tastes, though I have seen so little of you.’
“我们已经见过面了，”她说着，把小手放进了亚什文的大手里，亚什文的羞涩与他巨大的身躯和粗糙的脸格格不入。 “我们去年在比赛中见过面。把它们给我，”她说，动作迅速地从渥伦斯基手中夺过她儿子的照片，并用闪烁的眼睛意味深长地看了他一眼。 “今年的比赛顺利吗？我没有看到他们，而是在罗马的科尔索看到了比赛。但你不关心国外的生活。”她亲切地微笑着说道。 “我了解你和你所有的品味，尽管我很少见到你。”

‘I’m awfully sorry for that, for my tastes are mostly bad,’ said Yashvin, gnawing at his left mustache.
“我对此感到非常抱歉，因为我的品味大多很差，”亚什文咬着左胡子说道。

Having talked a little while, and noticing that Vronsky glanced at the clock, Yashvin asked her whether she would be staying much longer in Petersburg, and unbending his huge figure reached after his cap.
聊了一会儿，亚什温注意到渥伦斯基看了一眼时钟，就问她是否会在彼得堡待得更久，然后挺直了他巨大的身躯，伸手去够帽子。

‘Not long, I think,’ she said hesitatingly, glancing at Vronsky.
“我想不会太久，”她犹豫地说，看了一眼渥伦斯基。

‘So then we shan’t meet again?’
“那么我们就不会再见面了？”

‘Come and dine with me,’ said Anna resolutely, angry it seemed with herself for her embarrassment, but flushing as she always did when she defined her position before a fresh person. ‘The dinner here is not good, but at least you will see him. There is no one of his old friends in the regiment Alexey cares for as he does for you.’
“来和我一起吃饭吧，”安娜坚决地说，她似乎因为自己的尴尬而生气，但她脸红了，就像她在一个陌生的人面前明确自己的立场时一样。 ‘这里的晚餐不好，但至少你会见到他。阿列克谢在团里没有一个老朋友像他对你那样关心。

‘Delighted,’ said Yashvin with a smile, from which Vronsky could see that he liked Anna very much.
“很高兴。”亚什文微笑着说道，从渥伦斯基的表情中可以看出他非常喜欢安娜。

Yashvin said good-bye and went away; Vronsky stayed behind.
亚什温说了再见就走了。渥伦斯基留在后面。

‘Are you going too?’ she said to him.
“你也去吗？”她对他说。

‘I’m late already,’ he answered. ‘Run along! I’ll catch you up in a moment,’ he called to Yashvin.
“我已经迟到了，”他回答道。 ‘快跑吧！我一会儿就来接你，”他对亚什文喊道。

She took him by the hand, and without taking her eyes off him, gazed at him while she ransacked her mind for the words to say that would keep him.
她握住他的手，目光没有离开他，凝视着他，同时在脑海中搜寻着能留住他的话。

‘Wait a minute, there’s something I want to say to you,’ and taking his broad hand she pressed it on her neck. ‘Oh, was it right my asking him to dinner?’
“等一下，我有件事想对你说，”她握住他宽阔的手，按在自己的脖子上。 “哦，我请他吃饭对吗？”

‘You did quite right,’ he said with a serene smile that showed his even teeth, and he kissed her hand.
“你做得很对，”他带着平静的微笑说，露出整齐的牙齿，然后吻了吻她的手。

‘Alexey, you have not changed to me?’ she said, pressing his hand in both of hers. ‘Alexey, I am miserable here. When are we going away?’
“阿列克谢，你对我没有改变吗？”她说，把他的手按在她的两只手上。 “阿列克谢，我在这里很痛苦。我们什么时候走？

‘Soon, soon. You wouldn’t believe how disagreeable our way of living here is to me too,’ he said, and he drew away his hand.
‘很快，很快。你不会相信我们在这里的生活方式对我来说也是多么不舒服。”他说着，把手抽开了。

‘Well, go, go!’ she said in a tone of offense, and she walked quickly away from him.
“好吧，走吧，走吧！”她用一种冒犯的语气说，然后快步从他身边走开。

Chapter 32
第32章

When Vronsky returned home, Anna was not yet home. Soon after he had left, some lady, so they told him, had come to see her, and she had gone out with her. That she had gone out without leaving word where she was going, that she had not yet come back, and that all the morning she had been going about somewhere without a word to him—all this, together with the strange look of excitement in her face in the morning, and the recollection of the hostile tone with which she had before Yashvin almost snatched her son’s photographs out of his hands, made him serious. He decided he absolutely must speak openly with her. And he waited for her in her drawing room. But Anna did not return alone, but brought with her her old unmarried aunt, Princess Oblonskaya. This was the lady who had come in the morning, and with whom Anna had gone out shopping. Anna appeared not to notice Vronsky’s worried and inquiring expression, and began a lively account of her morning’s shopping. He saw that there was something working within her; in her flashing eyes, when they rested for a moment on him, there was an intense concentration, and in her words and movements there was that nervous rapidity and grace which, during the early period of their intimacy, had so fascinated him, but which now so disturbed and alarmed him.
当渥伦斯基回到家时，安娜还没有回家。他们告诉他，他离开后不久，一位女士来看她，她也跟着出去了。她出去了，没有留下任何消息，她还没有回来，整个早上她都在某个地方走来走去，没有跟他说一句话——这一切，再加上她脸上那种奇怪的兴奋表情。亚什温差点从他手中抢走她儿子的照片时，她的敌意语气让他严肃起来。他决定绝对必须与她开诚布公地交谈。他在她的客厅里等她。但安娜并不是独自一人回来，而是带着她未婚的老姨妈奥布隆斯卡娅公主。这是早上来的那位女士，安娜和她一起出去购物。安娜似乎没有注意到渥伦斯基担忧和询问的表情，并开始生动地讲述她早上的购物。他看到她体内有某种东西在起作用；当他们在他身上停留片刻时，在她闪烁的眼睛里，有一种强烈的专注，在她的言语和动作中，有一种神经质的快速和优雅，在他们亲密关系的早期，这让他如此着迷，但现在他感到如此不安和惊慌。

The dinner was laid for four. All were gathered together and about to go into the little dining room when Tushkevitch made his appearance with a message from Princess Betsy. Princess Betsy begged her to excuse her not having come to say good-bye; she had been indisposed, but begged Anna to come to her between half-past six and nine o’clock. Vronsky glanced at Anna at the precise limit of time, so suggestive of steps having been taken that she should meet no one; but Anna appeared not to notice it.
晚餐是四人份的。所有人都聚集在一起，正要进入小餐厅时，图什克维奇带着贝特西公主的口信出现了。贝特西公主恳求她原谅她没有来告别。她身体不太舒服，但恳求安娜在六点半到九点之间来找她。渥伦斯基在精确的时间限制上看了安娜一眼，暗示她已经采取了措施，不应该遇到任何人。但安娜似乎没有注意到这一点。

‘Very sorry that I can’t come just between half-past six and nine,’ she said with a faint smile.
“非常抱歉，我不能在六点半到九点之间来，”她微笑着说道。

‘The princess will be very sorry.’
“公主会非常抱歉的。”

‘And so am I.’
'我也是。'

‘You’re going, no doubt, to hear Patti?’ said Tushkevitch.
“毫无疑问，你要去听帕蒂的演讲？”图什克维奇说。

‘Patti? You suggest the idea to me. I would go if it were possible to get a box.’
‘帕蒂？你向我提出这个想法。如果可以的话我会去的。

‘I can get one,’ Tushkevitch offered his services.
“我可以得到一个，”图什克维奇提供了他的服务。

‘I should be very, very grateful to you,’ said Anna. ‘But won’t you dine with us?’
“我应该非常非常感谢你，”安娜说。 “但是你不和我们一起吃饭吗？”

Vronsky gave a hardly perceptible shrug. He was at a complete loss to understand what Anna was about. What had she brought the old Princess Oblonskaya home for, what had she made Tushkevitch stay to dinner for, and, most amazing of all, why was she sending him for a box? Could she possibly think in her position of going to Patti’s benefit, where all the circle of her acquaintances would be? He looked at her with serious eyes, but she responded with that defiant, half-mirthful, half-desperate look, the meaning of which he could not comprehend. At dinner Anna was in aggressively high spirits—she almost flirted both with Tushkevitch and with Yashvin. When they got up from dinner and Tushkevitch had gone to get a box at the opera, Yashvin went to smoke, and Vronsky went down with him to his own rooms. After sitting there for some time he ran upstairs. Anna was already dressed in a low-necked gown of light silk and velvet that she had had made in Paris, and with costly white lace on her head, framing her face, and particularly becoming, showing up her dazzling beauty.
渥伦斯基几乎不可察觉地耸耸肩。他完全不明白安娜的意思。她带老公主奥布隆斯卡娅回家干什么，她让图什克维奇留下来吃晚饭干什么，最令人惊奇的是，她为什么要派他去拿一个盒子？她可能会站在她的立场去考虑帕蒂的利益，她所有的熟人都在哪里？他用严肃的眼神看着她，但她却用一种挑衅、半欣喜、半绝望的眼神回应，他无法理解其中的含义。晚餐时，安娜情绪非常高涨——她几乎同时和图什克维奇和亚什文调情。当他们吃完晚饭起床时，图什克维奇已经去歌剧院买包厢了，亚什文去抽烟了，渥伦斯基和他一起下楼回了自己的房间。坐了一会儿，他就跑上楼了。安娜已经穿上了一件她在巴黎做的轻丝绒低领礼服，头上戴着昂贵的白色蕾丝，将她的脸庞衬托得格外合身，将她那耀眼的美丽展现得淋漓尽致。

‘Are you really going to the theater?’ he said, trying not to look at her.
“你真的要去剧院吗？”他说，尽量不看她。

‘Why do you ask with such alarm?’ she said, wounded again at his not looking at her. ‘Why shouldn’t I go?’
“你为什么这么惊慌地问？”她说，因为他没有看她，她再次受伤。 “我为什么不应该去？”

She appeared not to understand the motive of his words.
她似乎不明白他这句话的动机。

‘Oh, of course, there’s no reason whatever,’ he said, frowning.
“哦，当然，没有任何理由，”他皱着眉头说道。

‘That’s just what I say,’ she said, willfully refusing to see the irony of his tone, and quietly turning back her long, perfumed glove.
“我就是这么说的，”她说，故意不肯看出他语气中的讽刺，并悄悄地把长长的、散发着香味的手套转回去。

‘Anna, for God’s sake! what is the matter with you?’ he said, appealing to her exactly as once her husband had done.
‘安娜，看在上帝的份上！你怎么了？”他问道，就像她丈夫以前那样向她求助。

‘I don’t understand what you are asking.’
“我不明白你在问什么。”

‘You know that it’s out of the question to go.’
“你知道去是不可能的。”

‘Why so? I’m not going alone. Princess Varvara has gone to dress, she is going with me.’
'为什么这样？我不会一个人去。瓦尔瓦拉公主已经穿好衣服了，她要和我一起去。

He shrugged his shoulders with an air of perplexity and despair.
他耸了耸肩，神情中充满了困惑和绝望。

‘But do you mean to say you don’t know?...’ he began.
“但是你的意思是说你不知道吗？……”他开始说道。

‘But I don’t care to know!’ she almost shrieked. ‘I don’t care to. Do I regret what I have done? No, no, no! If it were all to do again from the beginning, it would be the same. For us, for you and for me, there is only one thing that matters, whether we love each other. Other people we need not consider. Why are we living here apart and not seeing each other? Why can’t I go? I love you, and I don’t care for anything,’ she said in Russian, glancing at him with a peculiar gleam in her eyes that he could not understand. ‘If you have not changed to me, why don’t you look at me?’
“但我不想知道！”她几乎尖叫起来。 ‘我不在乎。我后悔我所做的事吗？不不不！如果一切从头再来一次，结果还是一样。对于我们，对于你，对于我，只有一件事是重要的，那就是我们是否彼此相爱。其他人我们不需要考虑。为什么我们分居在这里却见不到面？为什么我不能去？我爱你，我什么都不关心。”她用俄语说道，眼睛里闪烁着他无法理解的奇特光芒。 “如果你对我没有改变，为什么不看看我呢？”

He looked at her. He saw all the beauty of her face and full dress, always so becoming to her. But now her beauty and elegance were just what irritated him.
他看着她。他看到她美丽的脸庞和盛装，总是那么适合她。但现在她的美丽和优雅却让他恼火。

‘My feeling cannot change, you know, but I beg you, I entreat you,’ he said again in French, with a note of tender supplication in his voice, but with coldness in his eyes.
“你知道，我的感觉不会改变，但我请求你，我恳求你，”他又用法语说道，声音里带着温柔的恳求，但眼神却冰冷。

She did not hear his words, but she saw the coldness of his eyes, and answered with irritation:
她没有听到他的话，却看到了他眼中的冰冷，恼怒地回答道：

‘And I beg you to explain why I should not go.’
“我请求你解释一下为什么我不应该去。”

‘Because it might cause you...’ he hesitated.
“因为这可能会导致你……”他犹豫道。

‘I don’t understand. Yashvin n’est pas compromettant, and Princess Varvara is no worse than others. Oh, here she is!’
'我不明白。亚什文并不比其他人差，而瓦尔瓦拉公主也不比其他人差。哦，她在这里！

Chapter 33
第33章

Vronsky for the first time experienced a feeling of anger against Anna, almost a hatred for her willfully refusing to understand her own position. This feeling was aggravated by his being unable to tell her plainly the cause of his anger. If he had told her directly what he was thinking, he would have said:
渥伦斯基第一次对安娜产生了愤怒的感觉，几乎是对她故意拒绝理解自己的立场的仇恨。由于他无法清楚地告诉她他愤怒的原因，这种感觉更加强烈。如果他直接告诉她自己的想法，他会说：

‘In that dress, with a princess only too well known to everyone, to show yourself at the theater is equivalent not merely to acknowledging your position as a fallen woman, but is flinging down a challenge to society, that is to say, cutting yourself off from it forever.’
“穿着那件裙子，以一位众所周知的公主的身份出现在剧院，不仅等于承认自己作为一个堕落女人的地位，而且是向社会发起挑战，也就是说，割伤自己永远远离它。

He could not say that to her. ‘But how can she fail to see it, and what is going on in her?’ he said to himself. He felt at the same time that his respect for her was diminished while his sense of her beauty was intensified.
他不能对她说这些。 “但她怎么可能看不到这一点，她身上发生了什么？”他自言自语道。他同时感到自己对她的尊重减少了，而对她美貌的感觉却增强了。

He went back scowling to his rooms, and sitting down beside Yashvin, who, with his long legs stretched out on a chair, was drinking brandy and seltzer water, he ordered a glass of the same for himself.
他皱起眉头回到自己的房间，坐在亚什文旁边，亚什文把长腿伸在椅子上，喝着白兰地和苏打水，他给自己点了一杯同样的酒。

‘You were talking of Lankovsky’s Powerful. That’s a fine horse, and I would advise you to buy him,’ said Yashvin, glancing at his comrade’s gloomy face. ‘His hind-quarters aren’t quite first-rate, but the legs and head—one couldn’t wish for anything better.’
“你刚才谈论的是兰科夫斯基的《Powerful》。那是一匹好马，我建议你买它。”亚什文看着他战友阴沉的脸说道。 “他的后躯不是一流的，但腿和头——没有比这更好的了。”

‘I think I will take him,’ answered Vronsky.
“我想我会带他去，”渥伦斯基回答道。

Their conversation about horses interested him, but he did not for an instant forget Anna, and could not help listening to the sound of steps in the corridor and looking at the clock on the chimney piece.
他们关于马的谈话让他很感兴趣，但他一刻也没有忘记安娜，忍不住听着走廊里的脚步声，看着烟囱上的时钟。

‘Anna Arkadyevna gave orders to announce that she has gone to the theater.’
“安娜·阿尔卡季耶夫娜下令宣布她去了剧院。”

Yashvin, tipping another glass of brandy into the bubbling water, drank it and got up, buttoning his coat.
亚什文又倒了一杯白兰地到冒泡的水中，喝了它，然后站起来，扣上外套的扣子。

‘Well, let’s go,’ he said, faintly smiling under his mustache, and showing by this smile that he knew the cause of Vronsky’s gloominess, and did not attach any significance to it.
“好吧，我们走吧，”他说，胡子下微微一笑，这笑容表明他知道渥伦斯基心情郁闷的原因，而且并不认为它有任何意义。

‘I’m not going,’ Vronsky answered gloomily.
“我不去。”渥伦斯基阴郁地回答。

‘Well, I must, I promised to. Good-bye, then. If you do, come to the stalls; you can take Kruzin’s stall,’ added Yashvin as he went out.
“好吧，我必须，我答应过。那么再见。如果你这样做，就到摊位来； “你可以占领克鲁津的摊位。”亚什文出去时补充道。

‘No, I’m busy.’
'不能，我现在很忙。'

‘A wife is a care, but it’s worse when she’s not a wife,’ thought Yashvin, as he walked out of the hotel.
“妻子是一种关怀，但当她不是妻子时，情况会更糟，”亚什文走出酒店时想。

Vronsky, left alone, got up from his chair and began pacing up and down the room.
渥伦斯基独自一人从椅子上站起来，开始在房间里来回踱步。

‘And what’s today? The fourth night.... Yegor and his wife are there, and my mother, most likely. Of course all Petersburg’s there. Now she’s gone in, taken off her cloak and come into the light. Tushkevitch, Yashvin, Princess Varvara,’ he pictured them to himself.... ‘What about me? Either that I’m frightened or have given up to Tushkevitch the right to protect her? From every point of view—stupid, stupid!... And why is she putting me in such a position?’ he said with a gesture of despair.
‘今天是什么日子？第四天晚上……叶戈尔和他的妻子都在那里，我的母亲也很可能在那里。当然，整个彼得堡都在那里。现在她进去了，脱掉斗篷，来到光亮之中。图什克维奇、亚什文、瓦尔瓦拉公主，”他心里想象着他们……“那我呢？要么是我害怕了，要么是我放弃了图什克维奇保护她的权利？从各个角度来看——愚蠢，愚蠢！……她为什么要把我置于这样的境地？”他带着绝望的表情说道。

With that gesture he knocked against the table, on which there was standing the seltzer water and the decanter of brandy, and almost upset it. He tried to catch it, let it slip, and angrily kicked the table over and rang.
就这样，他撞到了桌子上，桌子上放着苏打水和白兰地酒瓶，差点把桌子打翻。他试图抓住它，但它却滑落了，然后愤怒地踢翻了桌子并按响了门铃。

‘If you care to be in my service,’ he said to the valet who came in, ‘you had better remember your duties. This shouldn’t be here. You ought to have cleared away.’
“如果你愿意为我服务，”他对进来的男仆说，“你最好记住你的职责。这不应该在这里。你应该走开的。

The valet, conscious of his own innocence, would have defended himself, but glancing at his master, he saw from his face that the only thing to do was to be silent, and hurriedly threading his way in and out, dropped down on the carpet and began gathering up the whole and broken glasses and bottles.
男仆自知清白，本想为自己辩解，但看了一眼主人，从他的表情中看出，只能保持沉默，连忙进进出出，倒在地毯上。并开始收集整个和破碎的玻璃杯和瓶子。

‘That’s not your duty; send the waiter to clear away, and get my dress coat out.’
‘那不是你的职责；让服务员走开，把我的礼服拿出来。

Vronsky went into the theater at half-past eight. The performance was in full swing. The little old box-keeper, recognizing Vronsky as he helped him off with his fur coat, called him ‘Your Excellency,’ and suggested he should not take a number but should simply call Fyodor. In the brightly lighted corridor there was no one but the box-opener and two attendants with fur cloaks on their arms listening at the doors. Through the closed doors came the sounds of the discreet staccato accompaniment of the orchestra, and a single female voice rendering distinctly a musical phrase. The door opened to let the box-opener slip through, and the phrase drawing to the end reached Vronsky’s hearing clearly. But the doors were closed again at once, and Vronsky did not hear the end of the phrase and the cadence of the accompaniment, though he knew from the thunder of applause that it was over. When he entered the hall, brilliantly lighted with chandeliers and gas jets, the noise was still going on. On the stage the singer, bowing and smiling, with bare shoulders flashing with diamonds, was, with the help of the tenor who had given her his arm, gathering up the bouquets that were flying awkwardly over the footlights. Then she went up to a gentleman with glossy pomaded hair parted down the center, who was stretching across the footlights holding out something to her, and all the public in the stalls as well as in the boxes was in excitement, craning forward, shouting and clapping. The conductor in his high chair assisted in passing the offering, and straightened his white tie. Vronsky walked into the middle of the stalls, and, standing still, began looking about him. That day less than ever was his attention turned upon the familiar, habitual surroundings, the stage, the noise, all the familiar, uninteresting, particolored herd of spectators in the packed theater.
渥伦斯基八点半走进剧院。演出进行得如火如荼。当渥伦斯基帮他脱下皮大衣时，小个子的老箱子看门人认出了他，称他为“阁下”，并建议他不要拿电话号码，而应该直接给费奥多尔打电话。灯火通明的走廊里，除了开箱的人和两个胳膊上披着毛皮斗篷的侍从在门口听着外，没有人。紧闭的门外传来管弦乐队谨慎的断奏伴奏声，以及一个清晰地演绎出乐句的女声。门打开，开箱器溜了进来，渥伦斯基清楚地听到了最后那句话。但门立刻又关上了，渥伦斯基没有听到乐句的结束和伴奏的节奏，尽管他从雷鸣般的掌声中知道一切都结束了。当他走进吊灯和煤气喷嘴灯火辉煌的大厅时，喧闹声仍在继续。舞台上，歌手微笑着鞠躬，裸露的肩膀上闪烁着钻石，在挽着她手臂的男高音的帮助下，收集着笨拙地飞过脚灯的花束。然后她走到一位头发油光发亮、头发中分的绅士面前，他正伸着懒腰，跨过脚灯，向她递出一样东西，摊位上和包厢里的所有公众都兴奋不已，伸长脖子，大喊大叫。鼓掌。坐在高脚椅上的售票员协助传递祭品，并拉直了他的白领带。渥伦斯基走进摊位中间，站着不动，开始环顾四周。 那天，他的注意力比以往任何时候都少，集中在熟悉的、习惯的环境、舞台、噪音、拥挤的剧院里所有熟悉的、无趣的、色彩斑斓的观众群上。

There were, as always, the same ladies of some sort with officers of some sort in the back of the boxes; the same gaily dressed women—God knows who—and uniforms and black coats; the same dirty crowd in the upper gallery; and among the crowd, in the boxes and in the front rows, were some forty of the real people. And to those oases Vronsky at once directed his attention, and with them he entered at once into relation.
一如既往，包厢后面坐着同样的女士和军官。同样是穿着华丽的女人——天知道是谁——以及制服和黑色外套；上层画廊里同样肮脏的人群；在人群中，包厢里和前排，大约有四十个真正的人。渥伦斯基立即将注意力转向那些绿洲，并立即与它们建立了联系。

The act was over when he went in, and so he did not go straight to his brother’s box, but going up to the first row of stalls stopped at the footlights with Serpuhovskoy, who, standing with one knee raised and his heel on the footlights, caught sight of him in the distance and beckoned to him, smiling.
当他进去时，演出已经结束了，所以他没有直接走向他兄弟的包厢，而是走到第一排摊位，​​谢尔普霍夫斯科伊在脚灯处停了下来，谢尔普霍夫斯科伊单膝抬起，脚后跟踩在脚灯上。远远地看见了他，微笑着向他招手。

Vronsky had not yet seen Anna. He purposely avoided looking in her direction. But he knew by the direction of people’s eyes where she was. He looked round discreetly, but he was not seeking her; expecting the worst, his eyes sought for Alexey Alexandrovitch. To his relief Alexey Alexandrovitch was not in the theater that evening.
渥伦斯基还没有见过安娜。他故意不看她的方向。但他通过人们目光的方向知道她在哪里。他小心翼翼地环顾四周，但并不是在寻找她。他做好了最坏的打算，目光投向阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇。令他松了口气的是，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇那天晚上没有在剧院。

‘How little of the military man there is left in you!’ Serpuhovskoy was saying to him. ‘A diplomat, an artist, something of that sort, one would say.’
“你身上只剩下多少军人气概了！”谢尔普霍夫斯科伊对他说。 “有人会说，他是一名外交官，一名艺术家，诸如此类的人。”

‘Yes, it was like going back home when I put on a black coat,’ answered Vronsky, smiling and slowly taking out his opera glass.
“是的，当我穿上黑色外套时，就像回到家一样，”渥伦斯基微笑着回答，慢慢地拿出他的望远镜。

‘Well, I’ll own I envy you there. When I come back from abroad and put on this,’ he touched his epaulets, ‘I regret my freedom.’
‘好吧，我承认我很羡慕你。当我从国外回来并穿上这件衣服时，”他摸了摸自己的肩章，“我对自己的自由感到后悔。”

Serpuhovskoy had long given up all hope of Vronsky’s career, but he liked him as before, and was now particularly cordial to him.
谢尔普霍夫斯科伊早已对渥伦斯基的事业失去了一切希望，但他还是一如既往地喜欢他，现在对他特别亲切。

‘What a pity you were not in time for the first act!’
“可惜你没能及时观看第一幕！”

Vronsky, listening with one ear, moved his opera glass from the stalls and scanned the boxes. Near a lady in a turban and a bald old man, who seemed to wave angrily in the moving opera glass, Vronsky suddenly caught sight of Anna’s head, proud, strikingly beautiful, and smiling in the frame of lace. She was in the fifth box, twenty paces from him. She was sitting in front, and slightly turning, was saying something to Yashvin. The setting of her head on her handsome, broad shoulders, and the restrained excitement and brilliance of her eyes and her whole face reminded him of her just as he had seen her at the ball in Moscow. But he felt utterly different towards her beauty now. In his feeling for her now there was no element of mystery, and so her beauty, though it attracted him even more intensely than before, gave him now a sense of injury. She was not looking in his direction, but Vronsky felt that she had seen him already.
渥伦斯基用一只耳朵听着，从隔间上移开望远镜，扫视着盒子。靠近一位戴头巾的女士和一位秃头老人，他们似乎在移动的歌剧玻璃中愤怒地挥手，渥伦斯基突然看到了安娜的头，她骄傲，美丽得惊人，在蕾丝框里微笑。她在第五个包厢里，距离他二十步。她坐在前面，微微转身，正在对亚什文说着什么。她的头靠在她英俊、宽阔的肩膀上，她的眼睛和整张脸都克制着兴奋和光彩，这让他想起了她，就像他在莫斯科的舞会上见过她一样。但现在他对她的美貌有了截然不同的感觉。他现在对她的感情已经没有了神秘的成分，所以她的美貌虽然比以前更吸引他，但现在却给了他一种受伤的感觉。她没有看向他的方向，但渥伦斯基觉得她已经看到了他。

When Vronsky turned the opera glass again in that direction, he noticed that Princess Varvara was particularly red, and kept laughing unnaturally and looking round at the next box. Anna, folding her fan and tapping it on the red velvet, was gazing away and did not see, and obviously did not wish to see, what was taking place in the next box. Yashvin’s face wore the expression which was common when he was losing at cards. Scowling, he sucked the left end of his mustache further and further into his mouth, and cast sidelong glances at the next box.
当渥伦斯基再次将望远镜转向那个方向时，他发现瓦尔瓦拉公主脸色特别红，不停地不自然地笑，并环视着旁边的包厢。安娜折起扇子，敲打着红色天鹅绒，她凝视着别处，没有看到，而且显然也不想看到，下一个盒子里发生了什么。亚什文脸上的表情是他输牌时常见的表情。他皱着眉头，把胡子的左端深深地吸进嘴里，斜眼看了一眼旁边的盒子。

In that box on the left were the Kartasovs. Vronsky knew them, and knew that Anna was acquainted with them. Madame Kartasova, a thin little woman, was standing up in her box, and, her back turned upon Anna, she was putting on a mantle that her husband was holding for her. Her face was pale and angry, and she was talking excitedly. Kartasov, a fat, bald man, was continually looking round at Anna, while he attempted to soothe his wife. When the wife had gone out, the husband lingered a long while, and tried to catch Anna’s eye, obviously anxious to bow to her. But Anna, with unmistakable intention, avoided noticing him, and talked to Yashvin, whose cropped head was bent down to her. Kartasov went out without making his salutation, and the box was left empty.
左边的包厢里住的是卡尔塔索夫一家。渥伦斯基认识他们，也知道安娜也认识他们。卡塔索娃夫人是个瘦小的女人，她站在包厢里，背对着安娜，穿上她丈夫为她拿着的斗篷。她脸色苍白，气愤不已，说起话来激动不已。卡尔塔索夫是个胖秃顶的男人，他一边试图安抚妻子，一边不停地看着安娜。妻子出去后，丈夫逗留了好一会儿，试图吸引安娜的目光，显然急于向她鞠躬。但安娜显然有意避免注意到他，而是与亚什文交谈，而亚什文的短头正向她低下。卡尔塔索夫没有行礼就出去了，箱子里空空如也。

Vronsky could not understand exactly what had passed between the Kartasovs and Anna, but he saw that something humiliating for Anna had happened. He knew this both from what he had seen, and most of all from the face of Anna, who, he could see, was taxing every nerve to carry through the part she had taken up. And in maintaining this attitude of external composure she was completely successful. Anyone who did not know her and her circle, who had not heard all the utterances of the women expressive of commiseration, indignation, and amazement, that she should show herself in society, and show herself so conspicuously with her lace and her beauty, would have admired the serenity and loveliness of this woman without a suspicion that she was undergoing the sensations of a man in the stocks.
渥伦斯基无法理解卡尔塔索夫一家和安娜之间究竟发生了什么，但他看到发生了令安娜羞辱的事情。他从所见所闻，尤其是从安娜的脸上知道了这一点，他可以看到，安娜正竭尽全力地完成她所承担的角色。在保持这种外在镇定的态度方面，她完全成功了。任何不了解她和她的圈子的人，没有听过女人们对她在社会上展示自己，用她的蕾丝和美丽如此引人注目地展示自己的妇女们表达同情、愤慨和惊讶的所有言论，都会我钦佩这个女人的宁静和可爱，而不怀疑她正在经历一个男人的感觉。

Knowing that something had happened, but not knowing precisely what, Vronsky felt a thrill of agonizing anxiety, and hoping to find out something, he went towards his brother’s box. Purposely choosing the way round furthest from Anna’s box, he jostled as he came out against the colonel of his old regiment talking to two acquaintances. Vronsky heard the name of Madame Karenina, and noticed how the colonel hastened to address Vronsky loudly by name, with a meaning glance at his companions.
渥伦斯基知道发生了什么事，但不知道到底发生了什么，他感到一阵痛苦的焦虑，他希望能查出什么情况，于是他走向哥哥的包厢。他特意选择了距离安娜包厢最远的路线，当他出来时，他撞到了正在与两个熟人交谈的老团的上校。渥伦斯基听到了卡列尼娜夫人的名字，注意到上校赶紧大声喊出渥伦斯基的名字，并意味深长地看了他的同伴一眼。

‘Ah, Vronsky! When are you coming to the regiment? We can’t let you off without a supper. You’re one of the old set,’ said the colonel of his regiment.
‘啊，渥伦斯基！你什么时候来部队？我们不能让你不吃晚饭就走。你是老一辈人，”他所在团的上校说。

‘I can’t stop, awfully sorry, another time,’ said Vronsky, and he ran upstairs towards his brother’s box.
“我无法停下来，非常抱歉，下次吧。”渥伦斯基说道，然后他跑上楼，朝他哥哥的包厢走去。

The old countess, Vronsky’s mother, with her steel-gray curls, was in his brother’s box. Varya with the young Princess Sorokina met him in the corridor.
老伯爵夫人，渥伦斯基的母亲，有着钢灰色的卷发，就在他哥哥的包厢里。瓦莉亚和年轻的索罗基娜公主在走廊里遇见了他。

Leaving the Princess Sorokina with her mother, Varya held out her hand to her brother-in-law, and began immediately to speak of what interested him. She was more excited than he had ever seen her.
瓦里娅把索罗基娜公主留给了她的母亲，她向她的姐夫伸出了手，并立即开始谈论他感兴趣的事情。她比他见过的任何时候都更加兴奋。

‘I think it’s mean and hateful, and Madame Kartasova had no right to do it. Madame Karenina...’ she began.
“我认为这是卑鄙和可恨的，卡尔塔索娃夫人没有权利这样做。卡列尼娜夫人……”她开始说道。

‘But what is it? I don’t know.’
‘但是那是什么？我不知道。'

‘What? you’ve not heard?’
'什么？你没听说过吗？

‘You know I should be the last person to hear of it.’
“你知道我应该是最后一个听到这件事的人。”

‘There isn’t a more spiteful creature than that Madame Kartasova!’
“没有比卡尔塔索娃夫人更恶毒的生物了！”

‘But what did she do?’
“但是她做了什么？”

‘My husband told me.... She has insulted Madame Karenina. Her husband began talking to her across the box, and Madame Kartasova made a scene. She said something aloud, he says, something insulting, and went away.’
“我丈夫告诉我……她侮辱了卡列尼娜夫人。她的丈夫开始在包厢对面和她说话，卡尔塔索娃夫人大吵了一架。他说，她大声说了一些侮辱性的话，然后就走了。

‘Count, your maman is asking for you,’ said the young Princess Sorokina, peeping out of the door of the box.
“伯爵，你的妈妈正在找你。”年轻的索罗基娜公主从包厢门里向外张望说道。

‘I’ve been expecting you all the while,’ said his mother, smiling sarcastically. ‘You were nowhere to be seen.’
“我一直在等你。”他的母亲讽刺地微笑着说道。 “你无处可见。”

Her son saw that she could not suppress a smile of delight.
儿子看到她，忍不住露出欣喜的笑容。

‘Good evening, maman. I have come to you,’ he said coldly.
‘晚上好，妈妈。我来找你了。”他冷冷地说。

‘Why aren’t you going to faire la cour a Madame Karenina?’ she went on, when Princess Sorokina had moved away. ‘Elle fait sensation. On oublie la Patti pour elle.’
“你为什么不去招待卡列尼娜夫人呢？”当索罗基娜公主走开时，她继续说道。 ‘Elle fait 感觉。 On oublie la Patti pour elle。

‘Maman, I have asked you not to say anything to me of that,’ he answered, scowling.
“妈妈，我已经请你不要对我说这件事了，”他皱着眉头回答道。

‘I’m only saying what everyone’s saying.’
“我只是说大家都在说的话。”

Vronsky made no reply, and saying a few words to Princess Sorokina, he went away. At the door he met his brother.
渥伦斯基没有回答，只是跟索罗基娜公主说了几句话，就走了。在门口他遇见了他的兄弟。

‘Ah, Alexey!’ said his brother. ‘How disgusting! Idiot of a woman, nothing else.... I wanted to go straight to her. Let’s go together.’
“啊，阿列克谢！”他的兄弟说。 '真恶心！一个白痴女人，仅此而已……我想直接去找她。咱们一起去吧。'

Vronsky did not hear him. With rapid steps he went downstairs; he felt that he must do something, but he did not know what. Anger with her for having put herself and him in such a false position, together with pity for her suffering, filled his heart. He went down, and made straight for Anna’s box. At her box stood Stremov, talking to her.
渥伦斯基没有听见他的话。他迈着快步下了楼。他觉得他必须做点什么，但他不知道做什么。他心中充满了对她把自己和他置于如此错误的境地的愤怒，以及对她所受痛苦的怜悯。他下去，径直走向安娜的包厢。斯特雷莫夫站在她的包厢旁，正在和她说话。

‘There are no more tenors. Le moule en est brise!’
‘不再有男高音了。 Le moule en est brise！’

Vronsky bowed to her and stopped to greet Stremov.
渥伦斯基向她鞠了一躬，并停下来迎接斯特列莫夫。

‘You came in late, I think, and have missed the best song,’ Anna said to Vronsky, glancing ironically, he thought, at him.
“我想你来晚了，错过了最好的歌曲，”安娜对渥伦斯基说道，他想，她讽刺地看了他一眼。

‘I am a poor judge of music,’ he said, looking sternly at her.
“我对音乐的判断能力很差，”他严厉地看着她说道。

‘Like Prince Yashvin,’ she said smiling, ‘who considers that Patti sings too loud.’
“就像亚什文王子一样，”她微笑着说，“他认为帕蒂唱歌太大声了。”

‘Thank you,’ she said, her little hand in its long glove taking the playbill Vronsky picked up, and suddenly at that instant her lovely face quivered. She got up and went into the interior of the box.
“谢谢你，”她说，她戴着长手套的小手接过渥伦斯基捡起的节目单，在那一刻，她可爱的脸突然颤抖起来。她起身，走进包厢内部。

Noticing in the next act that her box was empty, Vronsky, rousing indignant ‘hushes’ in the silent audience, went out in the middle of a solo and drove home.
在下一幕中，渥伦斯基注意到她的包厢是空的，引起了沉默的观众愤怒的“嘘声”，她在独奏中出去开车回家。

Anna was already at home. When Vronsky went up to her, she was in the same dress as she had worn at the theater. She was sitting in the first armchair against the wall, looking straight before her. She looked at him, and at once resumed her former position.
安娜已经在家了。当渥伦斯基走到她面前时，她穿着和在剧院时穿的一样的衣服。她坐在第一张靠墙的扶手椅上，直视前方。她看了他一眼，立刻又恢复了原来的姿势。

‘Anna,’ he said.
“安娜，”他说。

‘You, you are to blame for everything!’ she cried, with tears of despair and hatred in her voice, getting up.
“你，一切都要怪罪你！”她站了起来，声音里充满了绝望和仇恨的泪水。

‘I begged, I implored you not to go, I knew it would be unpleasant....’
“我恳求过，我恳求你不要去，我知道那会很不愉快……”

‘Unpleasant!’ she cried—‘hideous! As long as I live I shall never forget it. She said it was a disgrace to sit beside me.’
“令人不快！”她喊道，“太可怕了！只要我活着，我就永远不会忘记它。她说坐在我旁边是一种耻辱。

‘A silly woman’s chatter,’ he said: ‘but why risk it, why provoke?...’
“一个愚蠢女人的喋喋不休，”他说：“但为什么要冒这个险，为什么要挑衅呢？……”

‘I hate your calm. You ought not to have brought me to this. If you had loved me...’
‘我讨厌你的冷静。你不应该把我带到这个地步。如果你爱过我的话……”

‘Anna! How does the question of my love come in?’
‘安娜！我的爱情问题是怎么来的？

‘Oh, if you loved me, as I love, if you were tortured as I am!...’ she said, looking at him with an expression of terror.
“哦，如果你像我一样爱我，如果你像我一样受到折磨！……”她说道，一脸恐惧地看着他。

He was sorry for her, and angry notwithstanding. He assured her of his love because he saw that this was the only means of soothing her, and he did not reproach her in words, but in his heart he reproached her.
他为她感到难过，尽管如此，他还是很生气。他向她保证他的爱，因为他看到这是抚慰她的唯一方法，他没有在言语上责备她，但在心里却在责备她。

And the asseverations of his love, which seemed to him so vulgar that he was ashamed to utter them, she drank in eagerly, and gradually became calmer. The next day, completely reconciled, they left for the country.
而他对爱情的表白，在他看来是那么粗俗，以至于羞于说出口，她却热切地听着，渐渐地变得平静了。第二天，他们完全和解了，启程回国了。

PART 6
第 6 部分

Chapter 1
第1章

Darya Alexandrovna spent the summer with her children at Pokrovskoe, at her sister Kitty Levin’s. The house on her own estate was quite in ruins, and Levin and his wife had persuaded her to spend the summer with them. Stepan Arkadyevitch greatly approved of the arrangement. He said he was very sorry his official duties prevented him from spending the summer in the country with his family, which would have been the greatest happiness for him; and remaining in Moscow, he came down to the country from time to time for a day or two. Besides the Oblonskys, with all their children and their governess, the old princess too came to stay that summer with the Levins, as she considered it her duty to watch over her inexperienced daughter in her interesting condition. Moreover, Varenka, Kitty’s friend abroad, kept her promise to come to Kitty when she was married, and stayed with her friend. All of these were friends or relations of Levin’s wife. And though he liked them all, he rather regretted his own Levin world and ways, which was smothered by this influx of the ‘Shtcherbatsky element,’ as he called it to himself. Of his own relations there stayed with him only Sergey Ivanovitch, but he too was a man of the Koznishev and not the Levin stamp, so that the Levin spirit was utterly obliterated.
达里娅·亚历山德罗芙娜 (Darya Alexandrovna) 和孩子们在波克罗夫斯科 (Pokrovskoe) 她姐姐基蒂·莱文 (Kitty Levin) 家度过了夏天。她自己庄园里的房子已经成了废墟，莱文和他的妻子说服她和他们一起度过夏天。斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇非常赞同这个安排。他说，他非常遗憾自己的公务使他无法与家人一起去乡下度过夏天，这对他来说是最大的幸福；他留在莫斯科，时不时地到乡下去住一两天。那年夏天，除了奥布朗斯基夫妇、他们的孩子和家庭教师之外，老公主也来到了莱文夫妇家里，因为她认为照顾她缺乏经验的女儿的有趣状况是她的责任。而且，基蒂在国外的朋友瓦伦卡也兑现了她结婚时来到基蒂身边的承诺，和她的朋友住在一起。所有这些都是莱文妻子的朋友或亲戚。尽管他喜欢所有这些，但他对自己的莱文世界和方式感到相当遗憾，因为他自称是“谢尔巴茨基元素”的涌入，他的世界和方式被窒息了。在他自己的亲戚中，只有谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇留在他身边，但他也是科兹尼舍夫的人，而不是列文的印记，因此列文精神被彻底抹杀了。

In the Levins’ house, so long deserted, there were now so many people that almost all the rooms were occupied, and almost every day it happened that the old princess, sitting down to table, counted them all over, and put the thirteenth grandson or granddaughter at a separate table. And Kitty, with her careful housekeeping, had no little trouble to get all the chickens, turkeys, and geese, of which so many were needed to satisfy the summer appetites of the visitors and children.
莱文家已经荒废了许久，现在人太多了，几乎所有的房间都被占满了，几乎每天都会发生这样的事：老公主坐在桌前，清点人数，把十三孙子放进去。或孙女在单独的桌子上。基蒂在她细心的家务管理下，不费吹灰之力就得到了所有的鸡、火鸡和鹅，这些鸡、火鸡和鹅需要很多来满足游客和孩子们夏天的胃口。

The whole family were sitting at dinner. Dolly’s children, with their governess and Varenka, were making plans for going to look for mushrooms. Sergey Ivanovitch, who was looked up to by all the party for his intellect and learning, with a respect that almost amounted to awe, surprised everyone by joining in the conversation about mushrooms.
全家人坐在一起吃晚饭。多莉的孩子们和他们的家庭教师以及瓦伦卡正在计划去寻找蘑菇。谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇（Sergey Ivanovitch）因其才智和学识而受到全党人士的尊敬，他的尊敬近乎敬畏，但他加入有关蘑菇的谈话，令所有人感到惊讶。

‘Take me with you. I am very fond of picking mushrooms,’ he said, looking at Varenka; ‘I think it’s a very nice occupation.’
'带我一起走。我非常喜欢采蘑菇，”他看着瓦伦卡说道。 “我认为这是一个非常好的职业。”

‘Oh, we shall be delighted,’ answered Varenka, coloring a little. Kitty exchanged meaningful glances with Dolly. The proposal of the learned and intellectual Sergey Ivanovitch to go looking for mushrooms with Varenka confirmed certain theories of Kitty’s with which her mind had been very busy of late. She made haste to address some remark to her mother, so that her look should not be noticed. After dinner Sergey Ivanovitch sat with his cup of coffee at the drawing-room window, and while he took part in a conversation he had begun with his brother, he watched the door through which the children would start on the mushroom-picking expedition. Levin was sitting in the window near his brother.
“哦，我们会很高兴的，”瓦伦卡回答道，脸色有点红。基蒂和多莉交换了一个意味深长的眼神。博学多才的谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇提议和瓦伦卡一起去寻找蘑菇，这证实了基蒂最近一直在思考的某些理论。她赶紧跟母亲说了几句话，免得别人注意到她的样子。晚饭后，谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇端着咖啡坐在客厅的窗前，一边参加他和弟弟开始的谈话，一边看着那扇门，孩子们将通过这扇门开始采蘑菇之旅。莱文坐在他哥哥旁边的窗边。

Kitty stood beside her husband, evidently awaiting the end of a conversation that had no interest for her, in order to tell him something.
基蒂站在她丈夫身边，显然是在等待一场她不感兴趣的谈话结束，以便告诉他一些事情。

‘You have changed in many respects since your marriage, and for the better,’ said Sergey Ivanovitch, smiling to Kitty, and obviously little interested in the conversation, ‘but you have remained true to your passion for defending the most paradoxical theories.’
“自从结婚以来，你在很多方面都发生了变化，而且变得更好了，”谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇对基蒂微笑着说，显然对谈话不感兴趣，“但你仍然忠于捍卫最自相矛盾的理论的热情。”

‘Katya, it’s not good for you to stand,’ her husband said to her, putting a chair for her and looking significantly at her.
“卡蒂亚，你站着不好。”她的丈夫一边给她放了一把椅子，一边意味深长地看着她。

‘Oh, and there’s no time either,’ added Sergey Ivanovitch, seeing the children running out.
“哦，也没有时间了，”谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇补充道，看到孩子们已经跑完了。

At the head of them all Tanya galloped sideways, in her tightlydrawn stockings, and waving a basket and Sergey Ivanovitch’s hat, she ran straight up to him.
塔尼娅在他们的最前头，侧身疾驰，穿着紧紧拉紧的长袜，挥舞着篮子和谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇的帽子，径直跑向他。

Boldly running up to Sergey Ivanovitch with shining eyes, so like her father’s fine eyes, she handed him his hat and made as though she would put it on for him, softening her freedom by a shy and friendly smile.
她勇敢地跑到谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇面前，眼睛闪闪发亮，就像她父亲那双漂亮的眼睛一样，她把帽子递给他，做出一副要替他戴上的样子，害羞而友好的微笑软化了她的自由。

‘Varenka’s waiting,’ she said, carefully putting his hat on, seeing from Sergey Ivanovitch’s smile that she might do so.
“瓦伦卡正在等着。”她小心翼翼地给他戴上帽子，从谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇的微笑中看出她可能会这么做。

Varenka was standing at the door, dressed in a yellow print gown, with a white kerchief on her head.
瓦伦卡站在门口，穿着黄色印花长袍，头上戴着白色头巾。

‘I’m coming, I’m coming, Varvara Andreevna,’ said Sergey Ivanovitch, finishing his cup of coffee, and putting into their separate pockets his handkerchief and cigar-case.
“我来了，我来了，瓦尔瓦拉·安德烈耶夫娜。”谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇喝完咖啡，把手帕和雪茄盒分别放进各自的口袋里。

‘And how sweet my Varenka is! eh?’ said Kitty to her husband, as soon as Sergey Ivanovitch rose. She spoke so that Sergey Ivanovitch could hear, and it was clear that she meant him to do so. ‘And how good-looking she is—such a refined beauty! Varenka!’ Kitty shouted. ‘Shall you be in the mill copse? We’ll come out to you.’
‘我的瓦莲卡多么可爱啊！嗯？”谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇一站起来，基蒂就对她的丈夫说道。她说话的方式是让谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇听得见，显然她是想让他这么做。 ‘而且她长得多么漂亮啊——多么精致的美人啊！瓦伦卡！”基蒂喊道。 “你要去磨坊树林里吗？我们会来找你的。

‘You certainly forget your condition, Kitty,’ said the old princess, hurriedly coming out at the door. ‘You mustn’t shout like that.’
“你肯定忘记了自己的处境，基蒂。”老公主说着，急匆匆地从门口走了出来。 “你不可以那样喊叫。”

Varenka, hearing Kitty’s voice and her mother’s reprimand, went with light, rapid steps up to Kitty. The rapidity of her movement, her flushed and eager face, everything betrayed that something out of the common was going on in her. Kitty knew what this was, and had been watching her intently. She called Varenka at that moment merely in order mentally to give her a blessing for the important event which, as Kitty fancied, was bound to come to pass that day after dinner in the wood.
瓦莲卡听到凯蒂的声音和母亲的训斥，迈着轻快的步伐走到凯蒂面前。她的动作之快，她的脸色通红而热切，一切都表明她身上正在发生一些不寻常的事情。凯蒂知道这是什么，一直专注地看着她。她当时打电话给瓦伦卡只是为了在心里为她的重要事件祝福，正如基蒂想象的那样，那天在树林里吃完晚饭后，这件事注定会发生。

‘Varenka, I should be very happy if a certain something were to happen,’ she whispered as she kissed her.
“瓦伦卡，如果发生某件事，我会很高兴，”她在亲吻她时低声说道。

‘And are you coming with us?’ Varenka said to Levin in confusion, pretending not to have heard what had been said.
“你要和我们一起去吗？”瓦伦卡困惑地对莱文说，假装没有听到他们所说的话。

‘I am coming, but only as far as the threshing-floor, and there I shall stop.’
“我来了，但只到了打谷场，我就停在那里。”

‘Why, what do you want there?’ said Kitty.
“为什么，你想在那里做什么？”基蒂说。

‘I must go to have a look at the new wagons, and to check the invoice,’ said Levin; ‘and where will you be?’
“我必须去看看新货车，并检查发票，”莱文说。 “你会在哪里？”

‘On the terrace.’
“在露台上。”

Chapter 2
第2章

On the terrace were assembled all the ladies of the party. They always liked sitting there after dinner, and that day they had work to do there too. Besides the sewing and knitting of baby clothes, with which all of them were busy, that afternoon jam was being made on the terrace by a method new to Agafea Mihalovna, without the addition of water. Kitty had introduced this new method, which had been in use in her home. Agafea Mihalovna, to whom the task of jam-making had always been intrusted, considering that what had been done in the Levin household could not be amiss, had nevertheless put water with the strawberries, maintaining that the jam could not be made without it. She had been caught in the act, and was now making jam before everyone, and it was to be proved to her conclusively that jam could be very well made without water.
参加聚会的所有女士都聚集在露台上。他们总是喜欢晚饭后坐在那里，那天他们也有工作要做。除了缝制和编织婴儿衣服（大家都很忙）外，下午还在露台上用阿加菲娅·米哈伊洛夫娜（Agafea Mihalovna）新的方法制作果酱，不加水。凯蒂介绍了这种新方法，她家一直在使用这种方法。阿加菲娅·米哈伊洛夫娜一直把制作果酱的任务交给她，考虑到莱文家里所做的事情不可能有错，但她还是把水和草莓一起放了，坚持认为没有水就无法制作果酱。她当场被抓了，现在正在大家面前做果酱，这将向她证明，不用水也能做好果酱。

Agafea Mihalovna, her face heated and angry, her hair untidy, and her thin arms bare to the elbows, was turning the preserving-pan over the charcoal stove, looking darkly at the raspberries and devoutly hoping they would stick and not cook properly. The princess, conscious that Agafea Mihalovna’s wrath must be chiefly directed against her, as the person responsible for the raspberry jam-making, tried to appear to be absorbed in other things and not interested in the jam, talked of other matters, but cast stealthy glances in the direction of the stove.
阿加菲娅·米哈伊洛芙娜的脸色火热而愤怒，头发凌乱，瘦弱的手臂裸露在肘部，她正在木炭炉上转动保鲜锅，阴沉地看着覆盆子，虔诚地希望它们会粘在一起，煮不好。公主意识到阿加菲娅·米哈伊洛夫娜的愤怒主要是针对她，因为她是负责制作覆盆子果酱的人，她试图表现出专注于其他事情，对果酱不感兴趣，谈论其他事情，但隐秘地表现出来朝炉子的方向看了一眼。

‘I always buy my maids’ dresses myself, of some cheap material,’ the princess said, continuing the previous conversation. ‘Isn’t it time to skim it, my dear?’ she added, addressing Agafea Mihalovna. ‘There’s not the slightest need for you to do it, and it’s hot for you,’ she said, stopping Kitty.
“我总是自己给女仆买一些廉价材质的衣服，”公主继续之前的谈话说道。 “亲爱的，现在不该浏览一下吗？”她对阿加菲娅·米哈伊洛夫娜补充道。 “你根本不需要这么做，而且这对你来说很热，”她说道，阻止了基蒂。

‘I’ll do it,’ said Dolly, and getting up, she carefully passed the spoon over the frothing sugar, and from time to time shook off the clinging jam from the spoon by knocking it on a plate that was covered with yellow-red scum and blood-colored syrup. ‘How they’ll enjoy this at tea-time!’ she thought of her children, remembering how she herself as a child had wondered how it was the grown-up people did not eat what was best of all—the scum of the jam.
“我会做的，”多莉站起来，小心翼翼地把勺子放在起泡的糖上，时不时地把勺子上粘着的果酱敲到铺着黄色的盘子上，把勺子上的果酱敲掉。红色的浮渣和血色的糖浆。 “他们在喝茶的时候会多么享受这个！”她想到了她的孩子们，还记得她自己小时候曾想知道为什么成年人不吃最好的东西——果酱渣。

‘Stiva says it’s much better to give money.’ Dolly took up meanwhile the weighty subject under discussion, what presents should be made to servants. ‘But...’
“斯蒂瓦说给钱比较好。”多莉同时开始讨论这个重要的话题，应该给仆人送什么礼物。 '但...'

‘Money’s out of the question!’ the princess and Kitty exclaimed with one voice. ‘They appreciate a present...’
“钱是不可能的！”公主和凯蒂异口同声地喊道。 “他们很感激一份礼物……”

‘Well, last year, for instance, I bought our Matrona Semyenovna, not a poplin, but something of that sort,’ said the princess.
“嗯，例如去年，我买了我们的Matrona Semyenovna，不是府绸，而是类似的东西，”公主说。

‘I remember she was wearing it on your nameday.’
“我记得她在你命名日那天就戴着它。”

‘A charming pattern—so simple and refined,—I should have liked it myself, if she hadn’t had it. Something like Varenka’s. So pretty and inexpensive.’
“一个迷人的图案——如此简单和精致——如果她没有的话，我自己也会喜欢它的。”有点像瓦伦卡的。如此漂亮且便宜。

‘Well, now I think it’s done,’ said Dolly, dropping the syrup from the spoon.
“好吧，现在我想已经完成了，”多莉说着，把勺子里的糖浆掉了下来。

‘When it sets as it drops, it’s ready. Cook it a little longer, Agafea Mihalovna.’
‘当它落下时，它就准备好了。煮久一点，阿加菲娅·米哈伊洛芙娜。”

‘The flies!’ said Agafea Mihalovna angrily. ‘It’ll be just the same,’ she added.
“苍蝇！”阿加菲娅·米哈伊洛芙娜生气地说。 “一切都会一样，”她补充道。

‘Ah! how sweet it is! don’t frighten it!’ Kitty said suddenly, looking at a sparrow that had settled on the step and was pecking at the center of a raspberry.
'啊！多么甜蜜啊！别吓唬它！”基蒂突然说道，她看着一只停在台阶上、正在啄食覆盆子中心的麻雀。

‘Yes, but you keep a little further from the stove,’ said her mother.
“是的，但是你离火炉远一点，”她妈妈说。

‘A propos de Varenka,’ said Kitty, speaking in French, as they had been doing all the while, so that Agafea Mihalovna should not understand them, ‘you know, mamma, I somehow expect things to be settled today. You know what I mean. How splendid it would be!’
“瓦伦卡的提议，”基蒂用法语说道，就像他们一直在做的那样，以免阿加菲娅·米哈伊洛芙娜听懂他们的话，“你知道，妈妈，我不知何故希望事情今天就能解决。你知道我的意思。那将是多么美妙啊！

‘But what a famous matchmaker she is!’ said Dolly. ‘How carefully and cleverly she throws them together!...’
“可她真是一位著名的媒人啊！”多莉说。 “她把它们拼凑得多么仔细、多么巧妙啊！……”

‘No; tell me, mamma, what do you think?’
'不;告诉我，妈妈，你觉得怎么样？

‘Why, what is one to think? He’ (he meant Sergey Ivanovitch) ‘might at any time have been a match for anyone in Russia; now, of course, he’s not quite a young man, still I know ever so many girls would be glad to marry him even now.... She’s a very nice girl, but he might...’
‘为什么，人们该想什么呢？他”（他指的是谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇）“在任何时候都可能是俄罗斯任何人的对手；现在，当然，他已经不那么年轻了，但我仍然知道，即使是现在，还是有那么多女孩会很高兴嫁给他……她是一个非常好的女孩，但他可能……”

‘Oh, no, mamma, do understand why, for him and for her too, nothing better could be imagined. In the first place, she’s charming!’ said Kitty, crooking one of her fingers.
“哦，不，妈妈，你一定要明白为什么，对于他和她来说，没有比这更好的事情了。首先，她很迷人！”凯蒂弯曲着一根手指说道。

‘He thinks her very attractive, that’s certain,’ assented Dolly.
“他认为她非常有吸引力，这是肯定的，”多莉同意道。

‘Then he occupies such a position in society that he has no need to look for either fortune or position in his wife. All he needs is a good, sweet wife—a restful one.’
“那么，他在社会中占据了这样的地位，他就不需要在妻子身上寻找财富或地位了。”他所需要的只是一位善良、可爱的妻子——一位安宁的妻子。

‘Well, with her he would certainly be restful,’ Dolly assented.
“嗯，有她在，他一定会很平静。”多莉同意道。

‘Thirdly, that she should love him. And so it is...that is, it would be so splendid!...I look forward to seeing them coming out of the forest—and everything settled. I shall see at once by their eyes. I should be so delighted! What do you think, Dolly?’
第三，她应该爱他。原来如此……那就太好了！……我期待着看到他们走出森林——然后一切就都解决了。我马上就能通过他们的眼睛看到。我应该很高兴才对！你觉得怎么样，多莉？

‘But don’t excite yourself. It’s not at all the thing for you to be excited,’ said her mother.
‘但是别让自己兴奋。 “这根本不值得你兴奋，”她母亲说。

‘Oh, I’m not excited, mamma. I fancy he will make her an offer today.’
“哦，我不兴奋，妈妈。我想他今天会向她提出要约。

‘Ah, that’s so strange, how and when a man makes an offer!... There is a sort of barrier, and all at once it’s broken down,’ said Dolly, smiling pensively and recalling her past with Stepan Arkadyevitch.
“啊，这太奇怪了，一个男人是如何以及何时提出要约的！……有一种障碍，突然间它就被打破了。”多莉若有所思地微笑着，回忆起她和斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇的过去。

‘Mamma, how did papa make you an offer?’ Kitty asked suddenly.
“妈妈，爸爸是怎么向你提出要求的？”凯蒂突然问道。

‘There was nothing out of the way, it was very simple,’ answered the princess, but her face beamed all over at the recollection.
“没有什么困难，很简单。”公主回答道，但回忆起来，她的脸上露出了笑容。

‘Oh, but how was it? You loved him, anyway, before you were allowed to speak?’
哦，但是怎么样？不管怎样，在你被允许说话之前你就爱过他吗？

Kitty felt a peculiar pleasure in being able now to talk to her mother on equal terms about those questions of such paramount interest in a woman’s life.
基蒂感到一种特别的高兴，因为现在能够与她的母亲平等地谈论那些对女性生活至关重要的问题。

‘Of course I did; he had come to stay with us in the country.’
'我当然做了;他来乡下和我们住在一起。

‘But how was it settled between you, mamma?’
“但是你们之间的事情是怎么解决的呢，妈妈？”

‘You imagine, I dare say, that you invented something quite new? It’s always just the same: it was settled by the eyes, by smiles...’
“我敢说，你想象你发明了一些全新的东西？总是一样的：都是通过眼睛、微笑来解决的……”

‘How nicely you said that, mamma! It’s just by the eyes, by smiles that it’s done,’ Dolly assented.
‘妈妈，你说得真好！只要用眼睛、用微笑就可以了。”多莉同意道。

‘But what words did he say?’
“但是他说了什么话呢？”

‘What did Kostya say to you?’
“克斯特亚对你说什么了？”

‘He wrote it in chalk. It was wonderful.... How long ago it seems!’ she said.
‘他用粉笔写的。太棒了……看起来是多久以前的事了！”她说。

And the three women all fell to musing on the same thing. Kitty was the first to break the silence. She remembered all that last winter before her marriage, and her passion for Vronsky.
三个女人都陷入了沉思。凯蒂率先打破了沉默。她记得结婚前去年冬天的一切，以及她对渥伦斯基的热情。

‘There’s one thing ...that old love affair of Varenka’s,’ she said, a natural chain of ideas bringing her to this point. ‘I should have liked to say something to Sergey Ivanovitch, to prepare him. They’re all—all men, I mean,’ she added, ‘awfully jealous over our past.’
“有一件事……瓦伦卡的旧恋情，”她说，一系列自然的想法把她带到了这一点。 “我本来想对谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇说点什么，让他做好准备。他们都是——我的意思是，他们都是男人，”她补充道，“对我们的过去非常嫉妒。”

‘Not all,’ said Dolly. ‘You judge by your own husband. It makes him miserable even now to remember Vronsky. Eh? that’s true, isn’t it?’
“不是全部，”多莉说。 ‘你根据你自己的丈夫来判断。即使现在想起渥伦斯基，他仍感到痛苦。呃？确实如此，不是吗？

‘Yes,’ Kitty answered, a pensive smile in her eyes.
“是的，”基蒂回答道，眼里带着沉思的微笑。

‘But I really don’t know,’ the mother put in in defense of her motherly care of her daughter, ‘what there was in your past that could worry him? That Vronsky paid you attentions—that happens to every girl.’
“但我真的不知道，”这位母亲为她对女儿的母性关怀辩护道，“你的过去有什么会让他担心的吗？渥伦斯基对你的关注——这发生在每个女孩身上。

‘Oh, yes, but we didn’t mean that,’ Kitty said, flushing a little.
“哦，是的，但我们不是那个意思，”基蒂说，脸有点红。

‘No, let me speak,’ her mother went on, ‘why, you yourself would not let me have a talk to Vronsky. Don’t you remember?’
“不，让我说话，”她母亲继续说道，“为什么，你自己不让我和渥伦斯基说话。你不记得了吗？

‘Oh, mamma!’ said Kitty, with an expression of suffering.
“哦，妈妈！”基蒂说道，表情痛苦。

‘There’s no keeping you young people in check nowadays.... Your friendship could not have gone beyond what was suitable. I should myself have called upon him to explain himself. But, my darling, it’s not right for you to be agitated. Please remember that, and calm yourself.’
“现在已经没有办法阻止你们这些年轻人了……你们的友谊不可能超出合适的范围。我本应该亲自请他来解释自己的情况。但是，亲爱的，你激动是不对的。请记住这一点，并冷静下来。”

‘I’m perfectly calm, maman.’
“我非常平静，妈妈。”

‘How happy it was for Kitty that Anna came then,’ said Dolly, ‘and how unhappy for her. It turned out quite the opposite,’ she said, struck by her own ideas. ‘Then Anna was so happy, and Kitty thought herself unhappy. Now it is just the opposite. I often think of her.’
“安娜来了，对基蒂来说是多么高兴啊，”多莉说，“对她来说又是多么不高兴。”结果恰恰相反，”她说，对自己的想法感到震惊。 “然后安娜很高兴，而基蒂则认为自己不高兴。现在却恰恰相反。我经常想起她。

‘A nice person to think about! Horrid, repulsive woman—no heart,’ said her mother, who could not forget that Kitty had married not Vronsky, but Levin.
‘一个值得思考的好人！可怕的、令人厌恶的女人——没有心。”她母亲说道，她无法忘记基蒂嫁给的不是渥伦斯基，而是莱文。

‘What do you want to talk of it for?’ Kitty said with annoyance. ‘I never think about it, and I don’t want to think of it.... And I don’t want to think of it,’ she said, catching the sound of her husband’s well-known step on the steps of the terrace.
“你想谈这个干什么？”凯蒂恼怒地说。 “我从来没有想过这件事，我也不想去想它……我也不想去想它，”她说，听到她丈夫踩在楼梯上那熟悉的脚步声。露台。

‘What’s that you don’t want to think about?’ inquired Levin, coming onto the terrace.
“你不想想什么？”莱文走到露台上问道。

But no one answered him, and he did not repeat the question.
但没有人回答他，他也没有重复这个问题。

‘I’m sorry I’ve broken in on your feminine parliament,’ he said, looking round on every one discontentedly, and perceiving that they had been talking of something which they would not talk about before him.
“对不起，我闯入了你们的女性议会。”他不满地环顾四周，发现她们正在谈论一些在他面前不会谈论的事情。

For a second he felt that he was sharing the feeling of Agafea Mihalovna, vexation at their making jam without water, and altogether at the outside Shtcherbatsky element. He smiled, however, and went up to Kitty.
有那么一瞬间，他觉得自己和阿加菲娅·米哈伊洛夫娜有同样的感觉，对他们没有水做果酱感到烦恼，而且完全对外面的谢尔巴茨基元素感到烦恼。然而他微笑着走到基蒂身边。

‘Well, how are you?’ he asked her, looking at her with the expression with which everyone looked at her now.
“嗯，你怎么样？”他问她，用现在每个人看她的表情看着她。

‘Oh, very well,’ said Kitty, smiling, ‘and how have things gone with you?’
“哦，很好，”基蒂微笑着说，“你最近怎么样？”

‘The wagons held three times as much as the old carts did. Well, are we going for the children? I’ve ordered the horses to be put in.’
“这些马车的载重量是旧马车的三倍。嗯，我们是为了孩子们去吗？我已经下令把马匹放进去。

‘What! you want to take Kitty in the wagonette?’ her mother said reproachfully.
'什么！ “你想把凯蒂带上马车吗？”她妈妈责备地说。

‘Yes, at a walking pace, princess.’
“是的，以步行的速度，公主。”

Levin never called the princess ‘maman’ as men often do call their mothers-in-law, and the princess disliked his not doing so. But though he liked and respected the princess, Levin could not call her so without a sense of profaning his feeling for his dead mother.
莱文从来没有像男人经常称呼他们的婆婆那样称呼公主为“妈妈”，公主不喜欢他不这样做。尽管莱文喜欢并尊重这位公主，但他这样称呼她，却有一种亵渎他对死去母亲的感情的感觉。

‘Come with us, maman,’ said Kitty.
“跟我们一起来吧，妈妈，”基蒂说。

‘I don’t like to see such imprudence.’
“我不喜欢看到如此轻率的行为。”

‘Well, I’ll walk then, I’m so well.’ Kitty got up and went to her husband and took his hand.
“好吧，那我就走路了，我很好。”基蒂站起来，走到她丈夫身边，握住了他的手。

‘You may be well, but everything in moderation,’ said the princess.
“你可能很好，但一切都要适度，”公主说。

‘Well, Agafea Mihalovna, is the jam done?’ said Levin, smiling to Agafea Mihalovna, and trying to cheer her up. ‘Is it all right in the new way?’
“好了，阿加菲娅·米哈伊洛芙娜，果酱做好了吗？”列文微笑着对阿加菲娅·米哈伊洛芙娜说道，试图让她高兴起来。 “新方式可以吗？”

‘I suppose it’s all right. For our notions it’s boiled too long.’
‘我想这没什么问题。对于我们来说，它煮得太久了。

‘It’ll be all the better, Agafea Mihalovna, it won’t mildew, even though our ice has begun to thaw already, so that we’ve no cool cellar to store it,’ said Kitty, at once divining her husband’s motive, and addressing the old housekeeper with the same feeling; ‘but your pickle’s so good, that mamma says she never tasted any like it,’ she added, smiling, and putting her kerchief straight.
“这样就更好了，阿加菲娅·米哈伊洛夫娜，即使我们的冰已经开始融化，我们也没有阴凉的地窖来储存它，但它不会发霉，”基蒂说，立刻猜出了她丈夫的动机。 ，也带着同样的心情对老管家说话； “但是你的泡菜太好吃了，妈妈说她从来没有尝过这样的味道，”她微笑着补充道，把头巾整理好。

Agafea Mihalovna looked angrily at Kitty.
阿加菲娅·米哈伊洛夫娜愤怒地看着基蒂。

‘You needn’t try to console me, mistress. I need only to look at you with him, and I feel happy,’ she said, and something in the rough familiarity of that with him touched Kitty.
“你不必试图安慰我，女主人。我只要看着你和他在一起，我就感到幸福。”她说，与他之间那种粗略的熟悉感触动了基蒂。

‘Come along with us to look for mushrooms, you will show us the best places.’ Agafea Mihalovna smiled and shook her head, as though to say: ‘I should like to be angry with you too, but I can’t.’
“跟我们一起去寻找蘑菇吧，你会告诉我们最好的地方。”阿加菲娅·米哈伊洛夫娜微笑着摇了摇头，仿佛在说：“我也想生你的气，但我不能。”

‘Do it, please, by my receipt,’ said the princess; ‘put some paper over the jam, and moisten it with a little rum, and without even ice, it will never go mildewy.’
“请照我的收据去做，”公主说。 “在果酱上放一张纸，并用一点朗姆酒润湿，即使不加冰，它也永远不会发霉。”

Chapter 3
第3章

Kitty was particularly glad of a chance of being alone with her husband, for she had noticed the shade of mortification that had passed over his face—always so quick to reflect every feeling—at the moment when he had come onto the terrace and asked what they were talking of, and had got no answer.
基蒂特别高兴有机会单独和她的丈夫在一起，因为当他来到露台上问什么时，她注意到他脸上掠过一丝羞愧的阴影——总是那么快地反映出每一种感觉。他们正在谈论，但没有得到答案。

When they had set off on foot ahead of the others, and had come out of sight of the house onto the beaten dusty road, marked with rusty wheels and sprinkled with grains of corn, she clung faster to his arm and pressed it closer to her. He had quite forgotten the momentary unpleasant impression, and alone with her he felt, now that the thought of her approaching motherhood was never for a moment absent from his mind, a new and delicious bliss, quite pure from all alloy of sense, in the being near to the woman he loved. There was no need of speech, yet he longed to hear the sound of her voice, which like her eyes had changed since she had been with child. In her voice, as in her eyes, there was that softness and gravity which is found in people continually concentrated on some cherished pursuit.
当他们先于其他人步行出发，走出房子的视野，踏上尘土飞扬、车轮生锈、撒满玉米粒的道路时，她紧紧地抓住他的手臂，将它贴得更紧。 。他已经完全忘记了短暂的不愉快的印象，和她在一起，他感觉到，现在她即将成为母亲的想法一刻也没有从他的脑海中消失，一种新的、美味的幸福，从所有感官的混合中变得非常纯粹，在离他所爱的女人很近。不需要说话，但他却渴望听到她的声音，就像她怀孕后的眼睛一样。她的声音就像她的眼睛一样，充满了人们持续专注于某种珍视追求的温柔和严肃。

‘So you’re not tired? Lean more on me,’ said he.
‘那你不累吗？多依靠我吧，”他说。

‘No, I’m so glad of a chance of being alone with you, and I must own, though I’m happy with them, I do regret our winter evenings alone.’
“不，我很高兴有机会和你单独在一起，我必须承认，虽然我和他们在一起很开心，但我确实对我们独自度过的冬夜感到遗憾。”

‘That was good, but this is even better. Both are better,’ he said, squeezing her hand.
‘那很好，但这更好。两者都更好，”他握着她的手说道。

‘Do you know what we were talking about when you came in?’
“你知道你进来时我们在说什么吗？”

‘About jam?’
“关于果酱？”

‘Oh, yes, about jam too; but afterwards, about how men make offers.’
“哦，是的，还有果酱；但后来，关于男人如何提出报价。

‘Ah!’ said Levin, listening more to the sound of her voice than to the words she was saying, and all the while paying attention to the road, which passed now through the forest, and avoiding places where she might make a false step.
“啊！”列文说，更多的是听她的声音而不是她说的话，同时始终注意穿过森林的那条路，避开她可能失足的地方。

‘And about Sergey Ivanovitch and Varenka. You’ve noticed?... I’m very anxious for it,’ she went on. ‘What do you think about it?’ And she peeped into his face.
“还有关于谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇和瓦伦卡。你注意到了吗？……我对此非常着急，”她继续说道。 “你觉得怎么样？”她凝视着他的脸。

‘I don’t know what to think,’ Levin answered, smiling. ‘Sergey seems very strange to me in that way. I told you, you know...’
“我不知道该怎么想，”莱文微笑着回答。 “从这方面来说，谢尔盖对我来说很奇怪。我告诉过你，你知道……”

‘Yes, that he was in love with that girl who died....’
“是的，他爱上了那个死去的女孩……”

‘That was when I was a child; I know about it from hearsay and tradition. I remember him then. He was wonderfully sweet. But I’ve watched him since with women; he is friendly, some of them he likes, but one feels that to him they’re simply people, not women.’
“那是我小时候；我是从道听途说和传统中得知的。那时我就​​记住了他。他非常可爱。但从那以后我就观察过他和女人在一起。他很友善，其中一些他喜欢，但人们觉得对他来说他们只是人，而不是女人。

‘Yes, but now with Varenka...I fancy there’s something...’
“是的，但现在和瓦伦卡在一起……我想有一些东西……”

‘Perhaps there is.... But one has to know him.... He’s a peculiar, wonderful person. He lives a spiritual life only. He’s too pure, too exalted a nature.’
“也许有……但人们必须认识他……他是一个奇特而美妙的人。他只过精神生活。他太纯洁、太崇高了。

‘Why? Would this lower him, then?’
'为什么？那么这会降低他的地位吗？

‘No, but he’s so used to a spiritual life that he can’t reconcile himself with actual fact, and Varenka is after all fact.’
“不，但他已经习惯了精神生活，无法接受现实，而瓦伦卡毕竟是事实。”

Levin had grown used by now to uttering his thought boldly, without taking the trouble of clothing it in exact language. He knew that his wife, in such moments of loving tenderness as now, would understand what he meant to say from a hint, and she did understand him.
莱文现在已经习惯于大胆地表达自己的想法，而无需费力地用精确的语言表达出来。他知道，在现在这样充满爱意的温柔时刻，他的妻子会从暗示中明白他的意思，而且她也确实明白了他的意思。

‘Yes, but there’s not so much of that actual fact about her as about me. I can see that he would never have cared for me. She is altogether spiritual.’
“是的，但关于她的真实事实并不像关于我的那样多。我看得出他永远不会关心我。她是完全有灵性的。

‘Oh, no, he is so fond of you, and I am always so glad when my people like you....’
“哦，不，他非常喜欢你，当我的人民喜欢你时，我总是很高兴……”

‘Yes, he’s very nice to me; but...’
‘是的，他对我很好；但...'

‘It’s not as it was with poor Nikolay...you really cared for each other,’ Levin finished. ‘Why not speak of him?’ he added. ‘I sometimes blame myself for not; it ends in one’s forgetting. Ah, how terrible and dear he was!... Yes, what were we talking about?’ Levin said, after a pause.
“这和可怜的尼古拉不一样……你们真的很关心彼此，”莱文最后说道。 “为什么不谈谈他呢？”他补充道。 “有时我会责怪自己没有这么做；它以一个人的遗忘而告终。啊，他是多么可怕和可爱！……是的，我们在谈论什么？”莱文停顿了一下后说道。

‘You think he can’t fall in love,’ said Kitty, translating into her own language.
“你认为他不能坠入爱河，”基蒂翻译成她自己的语言说道。

‘It’s not so much that he can’t fall in love,’ Levin said, smiling, ‘but he has not the weakness necessary.... I’ve always envied him, and even now, when I’m so happy, I still envy him.’
“并不是说他不能坠入爱河，”莱文微笑着说道，“但他没有必要的弱点……我一直羡慕他，甚至现在，当我如此幸福时，我还是很羡慕他。

‘You envy him for not being able to fall in love?’
“你羡慕他不能谈恋爱吗？”

‘I envy him for being better than I,’ said Levin. ‘He does not live for himself. His whole life is subordinated to his duty. And that’s why he can be calm and contented.’
“我羡慕他比我优秀，”莱文说。 ‘他不是为自己而活。他的一生都服从于他的职责。这就是为什么他可以平静和满足。

‘And you?’ Kitty asked, with an ironical and loving smile.
“那你呢？”基蒂问道，带着讽刺而充满爱意的微笑。

She could never have explained the chain of thought that made her smile; but the last link in it was that her husband, in exalting his brother and abasing himself, was not quite sincere. Kitty knew that this insincerity came from his love for his brother, from his sense of shame at being too happy, and above all from his unflagging craving to be better—she loved it in him, and so she smiled.
她永远无法解释让她微笑的一连串想法。但最后一个环节是，她丈夫抬高弟弟、贬低自己的行为并不真诚。基蒂知道，这种不真诚来自于他对哥哥的爱，来自于他因太幸福而感到羞耻，最重要的是来自于他对变得更好的不懈渴望——她喜欢他的这一点，所以她笑了。

‘And you? What are you dissatisfied with?’ she asked, with the same smile.
'你呢？你有什么不满意的吗？”她带着同样的微笑问道。

Her disbelief in his self-dissatisfaction delighted him, and unconsciously he tried to draw her into giving utterance to the grounds of her disbelief.
她对他的自我不满的不相信让他很高兴，他无意识地试图吸引她说出她不相信的理由。

‘I am happy, but dissatisfied with myself...’ he said.
“我很高兴，但对自己不满意……”他说。

‘Why, how can you be dissatisfied with yourself if you are happy?’
“怎么，既然你幸福了，怎么会对自己不满意呢？”

‘Well, how shall I say?... In my heart I really care for nothing whatever but that you should not stumble—see? Oh, but really you mustn’t skip about like that!’ he cried, breaking off to scold her for too agile a movement in stepping over a branch that lay in the path. ‘But when I think about myself, and compare myself with others, especially with my brother, I feel I’m a poor creature.’
“好吧，我该怎么说呢？……在我心里，我真的什么都不关心，只关心你不应该绊倒——明白吗？”哦，但你真的不可以这样蹦蹦跳跳！”他喊道，停下来责备她跨过路上的一根树枝的动作太敏捷了。 “但当我想到自己，并将自己与他人进行比较，尤其是与我的兄弟相比时，我觉得自己是一个可怜的人。”

‘But in what way?’ Kitty pursued with the same smile. ‘Don’t you too work for others? What about your co-operative settlement, and your work on the estate, and your book?...’
“但是以什么方式呢？”基蒂同样微笑着追问。 ‘你不也给别人打工吗？你的合作定居点、你在庄园的工作以及你的书呢？……”

‘Oh, but I feel, and particularly just now—it’s your fault,’ he said, pressing her hand—‘that all that doesn’t count. I do it in a way halfheartedly. If I could care for all that as I care for you!... Instead of that, I do it in these days like a task that is set me.’
“哦，但我觉得，尤其是现在——这是你的错，”他握着她的手说——“这一切都不算数。”我半心半意地这样做。如果我能像关心你一样关心这一切就好了！……相反，这些天我会像安排给我的任务一样做这件事。

‘Well, what would you say about papa?’ asked Kitty. ‘Is he a poor creature then, as he does nothing for the public good?’
“那么，你觉得爸爸怎么样？”基蒂问。 “那么他是不是一个可怜的人，因为他没有为公众利益做任何事情？”

‘He?—no! But then one must have the simplicity, the straightforwardness, the goodness of your father: and I haven’t got that. I do nothing, and I fret about it. It’s all your doing. Before there was you—and this too,’ he added with a glance towards her waist that she understood—‘I put all my energies into work; now I can’t, and I’m ashamed; I do it just as though it were a task set me, I’m pretending....’
‘他？——不！但是，一个人必须拥有你父亲的单纯、直率和善良：而我却没有。我什么都不做，我为此烦恼。这都是你做的。在你出现之前——还有这件事，”他看了一眼她的腰部，她明白了——“我把所有的精力都投入到了工作中；我把所有的精力都投入到了工作中。现在我不能了，我感到羞愧；我这样做就好像这是一项给我的任务一样，我假装……”

‘Well, but would you like to change this minute with Sergey Ivanovitch?’ said Kitty. ‘Would you like to do this work for the general good, and to love the task set you, as he does, and nothing else?’
“好吧，但是你想和谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇换个时间吗？”基蒂说。 “你愿意为了公众的利益而从事这项工作，并像他一样热爱这项给你的任务，而不是别的吗？”

‘Of course not,’ said Levin. ‘But I’m so happy that I don’t understand anything. So you think he’ll make her an offer today?’ he added after a brief silence.
“当然不是，”莱文说。 ‘但我太高兴了，我什么都不懂。那么你认为他今天会向她提出要约吗？”短暂的沉默后他补充道。

‘I think so, and I don’t think so. Only, I’m awfully anxious for it. Here, wait a minute.’ She stooped down and picked a wild camomile at the edge of the path. ‘Come, count: he does propose, he doesn’t,’ she said, giving him the flower.
‘我这么认为，又不这么认为。只是，我对此非常着急。在这里，等一下。”她弯下腰，在路边摘了一朵野甘菊。 “来吧，伯爵：他确实求婚了，但他没有，”她说着，把花递给了他。

‘He does, he doesn’t,’ said Levin, tearing off the white petals.
“他有，他没有。”莱文一边说，一边撕下白色的花瓣。

‘No, no!’ Kitty, snatching at his hand, stopped him. She had been watching his fingers with interest. ‘You picked off two.’
“不，不！”凯蒂抓住他的手，阻止了他。她一直饶有兴趣地看着他的手指。 “你选了两个。”

‘Oh, but see, this little one shan’t count to make up,’ said Levin, tearing off a little half-grown petal. ‘Here’s the wagonette overtaking us.’
“哦，但是你看，这个小家伙算不上和好，”莱文一边说，一边扯下一小片半生的花瓣。 “这是一辆超越我们的马车。”

‘Aren’t you tired, Kitty?’ called the princess.
“你不累吗，基蒂？”公主喊道。

‘Not in the least.’
“一点也不。”

‘If you are you can get in, as the horses are quiet and walking.’
“如果你是的话，你可以进去，因为马儿很安静，正在行走。”

But it was not worth while to get in, they were quite near the place, and all walked on together.
不过不值得进去，离地方很近，大家一起走。

Chapter 4
第4章

Varenka, with her white kerchief on her black hair, surrounded by the children, gaily and good-humoredly looking after them, and at the same time visibly excited at the possibility of receiving a declaration from the man she cared for, was very attractive. Sergey Ivanovitch walked beside her, and never left off admiring her. Looking at her, he recalled all the delightful things he had heard from her lips, all the good he knew about her, and became more and more conscious that the feeling he had for her was something special that he had felt long, long ago, and only once, in his early youth. The feeling of happiness in being near her continually grew, and at last reached such a point that, as he put a huge, slender-stalked agaric fungus in her basket, he looked straight into her face, and noticing the flush of glad and alarmed excitement that overspread her face, he was confused himself, and smiled to her in silence a smile that said too much.
瓦伦卡黑发上戴着白头巾，周围都是孩子们，兴致勃勃地照顾着他们，同时明显因为有可能收到她所关心的男人的声明而感到兴奋，她非常有吸引力。谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇走在她身边，不停地欣赏着她。看着她，他想起了从她嘴里听到的所有美好的事情，想起了他所知道的关于她的所有美好，并且越来越意识到，他对她的感觉是一种很特别的感觉，他很久很久以前就感受到了，而且只有一次，是在他年轻时。靠近她的幸福感不断增强，最后达到了这样的程度，当他把一株硕大细长的木耳放入她的篮子里时，他直视着她的脸，看到她脸上泛起欣喜与惊恐的红晕。她的脸上洋溢着兴奋，而他自己却很困惑，默默地对她微笑，那笑容似乎说得太多了。

‘If so,’ he said to himself, ‘I ought to think it over and make up my mind, and not give way like a boy to the impulse of a moment.’
“如果是这样，”他自言自语道，“我应该好好考虑一下，下定决心，不要像孩子一样屈服于一时的冲动。”

‘I’m going to pick by myself apart from all the rest, or else my efforts will make no show,’ he said, and he left the edge of the forest where they were walking on low silky grass between old birch trees standing far apart, and went more into the heart of the wood, where between the white birch trunks there were gray trunks of aspen and dark bushes of hazel. Walking some forty paces away, Sergey Ivanovitch, knowing he was out of sight, stood still behind a bushy spindle-tree in full flower with its rosy red catkins. It was perfectly still all round him. Only overhead in the birches under which he stood, the flies, like a swarm of bees, buzzed unceasingly, and from time to time the children’s voices were floated across to him. All at once he heard, not far from the edge of the wood, the sound of Varenka’s contralto voice, calling Grisha, and a smile of delight passed over Sergey Ivanovitch’s face. Conscious of this smile, he shook his head disapprovingly at his own condition, and taking out a cigar, he began lighting it. For a long while he could not get a match to light against the trunk of a birch tree. The soft scales of the white bark rubbed off the phosphorus, and the light went out. At last one of the matches burned, and the fragrant cigar smoke, hovering uncertainly in flat, wide coils, stretched away forwards and upwards over a bush under the overhanging branches of a birch tree. Watching the streak of smoke, Sergey Ivanovitch walked gently on, deliberating on his position.
“我要自己从其他人中挑选出来，否则我的努力就会白费，”他说，然后他离开了森林边缘，他们正在远处矗立着的老桦树之间低矮的柔滑草地上行走。分开，更深入树林的中心，白色的桦树干之间有灰色的白杨树干和深色的榛树丛。走了四十步远，谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇知道自己已经看不见了，便一动不动地站在一棵茂密的纺锤树后面，树上盛开着玫瑰红色的柳絮。他周围一片寂静。唯有他头顶上的白桦树上，苍蝇像一群蜜蜂一样嗡嗡地叫个不停，孩子们的声音时不时地飘到他的耳边。突然，他听到离树林边缘不远的地方传来瓦伦卡的女低音呼唤格里沙的声音，谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇的脸上掠过一丝喜悦的微笑。意识到这个笑容，他对自己的状况不以为然地摇了摇头，拿出一根雪茄，开始点燃。很长一段时间，他都无法在白桦树干上点燃火柴。白色树皮的柔软鳞片擦掉了磷，灯就灭了。最后，一根火柴烧着了，芬芳的雪茄烟雾，以扁平、宽大的线圈不确定地盘旋，向前和向上延伸到一棵白桦树悬垂的树枝下的灌木丛中。看着那道浓烟，谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇轻轻地向前走去，思考着自己的位置。

‘Why not?’ he thought. ‘If it were only a passing fancy or a passion, if it were only this attraction—this mutual attraction (I can call it a mutual attraction), but if I felt that it was in contradiction with the whole bent of my life—if I felt that in giving way to this attraction I should be false to my vocation and my duty...but it’s not so. The only thing I can say against it is that, when I lost Marie, I said to myself that I would remain faithful to her memory. That’s the only thing I can say against my feeling.... That’s a great thing,’ Sergey Ivanovitch said to himself, feeling at the same time that this consideration had not the slightest importance for him personally, but would only perhaps detract from his romantic character in the eyes of others. ‘But apart from that, however much I searched, I should never find anything to say against my feeling. If I were choosing by considerations of suitability alone, I could not have found anything better.’
“为什么不呢？”他想。 “如果这只是一时的幻想或激情，如果这只是这种吸引——这种相互吸引（我可以称之为相互吸引），但如果我觉得它与我的整个生活倾向相矛盾——如果我觉得在屈服于这种吸引力时，我应该辜负我的职业和责任……但事实并非如此。我唯一可以反对的是，当我失去玛丽时，我对自己说，我将继续忠实于她的记忆。这是我唯一能反对我的感觉的话……这是一件伟大的事情，”谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇自言自语道，同时感觉这种考虑对他个人来说没有丝毫重要性，但也许只会减损他的别人眼中浪漫的性格。 “但除此之外，无论我如何寻找，我都不应该找到任何反对我的感觉的东西。如果我仅考虑适合性来选择，我不可能找到更好的选择。

However many women and girls he thought of whom he knew, he could not think of a girl who united to such a degree all, positively all, the qualities he would wish to see in his wife. She had all the charm and freshness of youth, but she was not a child; and if she loved him, she loved him consciously as a woman ought to love; that was one thing. Another point: she was not only far from being worldly, but had an unmistakable distaste for worldly society, and at the same time she knew the world, and had all the ways of a woman of the best society, which were absolutely essential to Sergey Ivanovitch’s conception of the woman who was to share his life. Thirdly: she was religious, and not like a child, unconsciously religious and good, as Kitty, for example, was, but her life was founded on religious principles. Even in trifling matters, Sergey Ivanovitch found in her all that he wanted in his wife: she was poor and alone in the world, so she would not bring with her a mass of relations and their influence into her husband’s house, as he saw now in Kitty’s case. She would owe everything to her husband, which was what he had always desired too for his future family life. And this girl, who united all these qualities, loved him. He was a modest man, but he could not help seeing it. And he loved her. There was one consideration against it—his age. But he came of a long-lived family, he had not a single gray hair, no one would have taken him for forty, and he remembered Varenka’s saying that it was only in Russia that men of fifty thought themselves old, and that in France a man of fifty considers himself dans la force de l’age, while a man of forty is un jeune homme. But what did the mere reckoning of years matter when he felt as young in heart as he had been twenty years ago? Was it not youth to feel as he felt now, when coming from the other side to the edge of the wood he saw in the glowing light of the slanting sunbeams the gracious figure of Varenka in her yellow gown with her basket, walking lightly by the trunk of an old birch tree, and when this impression of the sight of Varenka blended so harmoniously with the beauty of the view, of the yellow oatfield lying bathed in the slanting sunshine, and beyond it the distant ancient forest flecked with yellow and melting into the blue of the distance? His heart throbbed joyously. A softened feeling came over him. He felt that he had made up his mind. Varenka, who had just crouched down to pick a mushroom, rose with a supple movement and looked round. Flinging away the cigar, Sergey Ivanovitch advanced with resolute steps towards her.
无论他想到了多少他认识的女人和女孩，他都想不出有一个女孩能够如此程度地融合了他希望在妻子身上看到的所有品质。她拥有青春的所有魅力和新鲜感，但她不是一个孩子；她是个孩子。如果她爱他，她就会有意识地爱他，就像一个女人应该爱的那样。这是一回事。还有一点：她不仅远离世俗，而且对世俗社会有着明显的厌恶，同时她了解这个世界，并且拥有上流社会女人的一切风范，这对谢尔盖来说绝对是必不可少的。伊万诺维奇对与他共度一生的女人的构想。第三：她是有宗教信仰的，而不是像一个孩子那样，无意识地虔诚和善良，就像基蒂那样，但她的生活是建立在宗教原则之上的。即使在琐事上，谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇也能在她身上找到他想要的妻子的一切：她贫穷而孤独，所以她不会像他现在看到的那样，把一大群亲戚和他们的影响带进她丈夫的家里。就基蒂的情况而言。她将把一切都归功于她的丈夫，这也是他对未来家庭生活一直以来的渴望。这个集所有这些品质于一身的女孩爱着他。他是一个谦虚的人，但他无法不看到这一点。他爱她。有一个考虑因素反对它——他的年龄。但他来自一个长寿的家庭，他没有一根白发，没有人会认为他是四十岁的人，他记得瓦伦卡说过，只有在俄罗斯，五十岁的男人才认为自己老了，而在法国五十岁的男人认为自己是“时代的力量”，而四十岁的男人则认为自己是“年轻人”。但当他感觉自己的心还像二十年前一样年轻时，仅仅计算岁月又有什么意义呢？ 当他从另一边走到树林边缘时，在斜射的阳光下，他看到瓦伦卡优雅的身影，身穿黄色长袍，提着篮子，轻轻地走过树林，这难道不是他现在的感受吗？一棵老桦树的树干，当瓦伦卡的景象与沐浴在倾斜的阳光下的黄色燕麦田的美景如此和谐地融为一体时，远处古老的森林点缀着黄色，融化在距离的蓝色？他的心欢快地跳动着。一种柔和的感觉涌上心头。他觉得自己已经下定决心了。刚刚蹲下来采蘑菇的瓦伦卡，动作灵活地站了起来，环顾四周。谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇扔掉雪茄，迈着坚定的步伐朝她走来。

Chapter 5
第5章

‘Varvara Andreevna, when I was very young, I set before myself the ideal of the woman I loved and should be happy to call my wife. I have lived through a long life, and now for the first time I have met what I sought—in you. I love you, and offer you my hand.’
“瓦尔瓦拉·安德烈耶夫娜，当我很小的时候，我就为自己设定了一个我所爱的女人的理想，并且应该高兴地称呼我为妻子。我已经度过了漫长的一生，现在我第一次在你身上找到了我所寻求的东西。我爱你，并向你伸出我的手。

Sergey Ivanovitch was saying this to himself while he was ten paces from Varvara. Kneeling down, with her hands over the mushrooms to guard them from Grisha, she was calling little Masha.
谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇在距瓦尔瓦拉十步远的地方自言自语道。她跪下来，双手捂住蘑菇，防止它们受到格里莎的伤害，她呼唤着小玛莎。

‘Come here, little ones! There are so many!’ she was saying in her sweet, deep voice.
‘到这里来，小家伙们！太多了！”她用甜美而低沉的声音说道。

Seeing Sergey Ivanovitch approaching, she did not get up and did not change her position, but everything told him that she felt his presence and was glad of it.
看到谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇走近，她没有站起来，也没有改变姿势，但一切都告诉他，她感觉到了他的存在，并为此感到高兴。

‘Well, did you find some?’ she asked from under the white kerchief, turning her handsome, gently smiling face to him.
“嗯，你找到一些了吗？”她从白头巾下面问道，把她英俊、温柔的微笑脸转向他。

‘Not one,’ said Sergey Ivanovitch. ‘Did you?’
“没有一个，”谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇说。 '你是否？'

She did not answer, busy with the children who thronged about her.
她没有回答，忙着照顾围在她身边的孩子们。

‘That one too, near the twig,’ she pointed out to little Masha a little fungus, split in half across its rosy cap by the dry grass from under which it thrust itself. Varenka got up while Masha picked the fungus, breaking it into two white halves. ‘This brings back my childhood,’ she added, moving apart from the children beside Sergey Ivanovitch.
“那也是，靠近树枝的地方。”她向小玛莎指着一种小真菌，它的玫瑰色菌盖被干草劈成两半，它从下面伸出来。瓦伦卡站了起来，玛莎摘下了真菌，把它分成了两半。 “这让我想起了童年，”她补充道，离开了谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇身边的孩子们。

They walked on for some steps in silence. Varenka saw that he wanted to speak; she guessed of what, and felt faint with joy and panic. They had walked so far away that no one could hear them now, but still he did not begin to speak. It would have been better for Varenka to be silent. After a silence it would have been easier for them to say what they wanted to say than after talking about mushrooms. But against her own will, as it were accidentally, Varenka said:
他们默默地走了几步。瓦莲卡看出他想说话。她猜到了什么，心中既喜悦又惊慌。他们已经走了很远，现在已经没有人能听到他们的声音了，但他仍然没有开始说话。瓦伦卡最好保持沉默。沉默之后，他们说出自己想说的话，比谈论蘑菇之后更容易。但瓦伦卡违背自己的意愿，就像偶然一样，说道：

‘So you found nothing? In the middle of the wood there are always fewer, though.’ Sergey Ivanovitch sighed and made no answer. He was annoyed that she had spoken about the mushrooms. He wanted to bring her back to the first words she had uttered about her childhood; but after a pause of some length, as though against his own will, he made an observation in response to her last words.
‘所以你什么也没发现？不过，在树林中央，人总是少一些。”谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇叹了口气，没有回答。他对她谈论蘑菇感到恼火。他想让她回忆起她对童年说的第一句话；但停顿了一段时间后，仿佛违背了自己的意愿，他对她的最后一句话作出了回应。

‘I have heard that the white edible funguses are found principally at the edge of the wood, though I can’t tell them apart.’
“我听说白色食用菌主要出现在树林的边缘，但我无法区分它们。”

Some minutes more passed, they moved still further away from the children, and were quite alone. Varenka’s heart throbbed so that she heard it beating, and felt that she was turning red and pale and red again.
又过了几分钟，他们离孩子们又远了，只剩下他们一个人了。瓦莲卡的心剧烈地跳动着，她听到了它的跳动声，感觉自己的脸色开始变得通红、苍白、又红了。

To be the wife of a man like Koznishev, after her position with Madame Stahl, was to her imagination the height of happiness. Besides, she was almost certain that she was in love with him. And this moment it would have to be decided. She felt frightened. She dreaded both his speaking and his not speaking.
在她的想象中，在与斯塔尔夫人的关系之后，成为像科兹尼舍夫这样的男人的妻子是最幸福的事情。而且，她几乎可以肯定，她爱上了他。这一刻必须做出决定。她感到害怕。她既害怕他说话，又害怕他不说话。

Now or never it must be said—that Sergey Ivanovitch felt too. Everything in the expression, the flushed cheeks and the downcast eyes of Varenka betrayed a painful suspense. Sergey Ivanovitch saw it and felt sorry for her. He felt even that to say nothing now would be a slight to her. Rapidly in his own mind he ran over all the arguments in support of his decision. He even said over to himself the words in which he meant to put his offer, but instead of those words, some utterly unexpected reflection that occurred to him made him ask:
现在或永远都必须说出来——谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇也有这种感觉。瓦伦卡的表情、通红的脸颊和低垂的眼睛都流露出一种痛苦的悬念。谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇看到了，为她感到难过。他甚至觉得现在什么都不说也会对她造成轻视。他很快地在心里思索了所有支持他决定的论据。他甚至对自己说了自己想要提出的建议，但他并没有说出这些话，而是想到了一些完全出乎意料的想法，让他问道：

‘What is the difference between the ‘birch’ mushroom and the ‘white’ mushroom?’
“‘桦木’蘑菇和‘白’蘑菇有什么区别？”

Varenka’s lips quivered with emotion as she answered:
瓦莲卡的嘴唇因激动而颤抖着回答道：

‘In the top part there is scarcely any difference, it’s in the stalk.’
“顶部几乎没有任何区别，只是在茎上。”

And as soon as these words were uttered, both he and she felt that it was over, that what was to have been said would not be said; and their emotion, which had up to then been continually growing more intense, began to subside.
这句话一出口，他和她都觉得完了，该说的又不说了；他们之前一直愈发强烈的情绪也开始平息下来。

‘The birch mushroom’s stalk suggests a dark man’s chin after two days without shaving,’ said Sergey Ivanovitch, speaking quite calmly now.
谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇现在非常平静地说道：“桦树蘑菇的茎就像两天没有刮胡子的黑人下巴。”

‘Yes, that’s true,’ answered Varenka smiling, and unconsciously the direction of their walk changed. They began to turn towards the children. Varenka felt both sore and ashamed; at the same time she had a sense of relief.
“是的，确实如此。”瓦伦卡微笑着回答，不知不觉间他们的行走方向就改变了。他们开始转向孩子们。瓦伦卡感到既痛苦又羞愧。与此同时，她有一种如释重负的感觉。

When he had got home again and went over the whole subject, Sergey Ivanovitch thought his previous decision had been a mistaken one. He could not be false to the memory of Marie.
当谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇再次回到家，回顾了整个话题后，他认为自己之前的决定是错误的。他不可能对玛丽的记忆有误。

‘Gently, children, gently!’ Levin shouted quite angrily to the children, standing before his wife to protect her when the crowd of children flew with shrieks of delight to meet them.
“轻点，孩子们，轻点！”莱文非常愤怒地对孩子们喊道，当一群孩子高兴地尖叫着迎接他们时，他站在妻子面前保护她。

Behind the children Sergey Ivanovitch and Varenka walked out of the wood. Kitty had no need to ask Varenka; she saw from the calm and somewhat crestfallen faces of both that her plans had not come off.
谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇和瓦伦卡在孩子们身后走出了树林。基蒂不需要问瓦伦卡；她已经知道了。她从两人平静而有些垂头丧气的脸上看出，她的计划没有实现。

‘Well?’ her husband questioned her as they were going home again.
“怎么样？”当他们再次回家时，她丈夫问她。

‘It doesn’t bite,’ said Kitty, her smile and manner of speaking recalling her father, a likeness Levin often noticed with pleasure.
“它不咬人，”基蒂说，她的微笑和说话方式让人想起她的父亲，莱文经常高兴地注意到这一点。

‘How doesn’t bite?’
“怎么不咬人？”

‘I’ll show you,’ she said, taking her husband’s hand, lifting it to her mouth, and just faintly brushing it with closed lips. ‘Like a kiss on a priest’s hand.’
“我会告诉你，”她说，握住丈夫的手，举到嘴边，闭上嘴唇轻轻地拂过它。 “就像在牧师的手上亲吻一样。”

‘Which didn’t it bite with?’ he said, laughing.
“它没有咬哪一个？”他笑着说。

‘Both. But it should have been like this...’
'两个都。但本来应该是这样的……”

‘There are some peasants coming...’
“有一些农民来了……”

‘Oh, they didn’t see.’
“哦，他们没有看到。”

Chapter 6
第6章

During the time of the children’s tea the grown-up people sat in the balcony and talked as though nothing had happened, though they all, especially Sergey Ivanovitch and Varenka, were very well aware that there had happened an event which, though negative, was of very great importance. They both had the same feeling, rather like that of a schoolboy after an examination, which has left him in the same class or shut him out of the school forever. Everyone present, feeling too that something had happened, talked eagerly about extraneous subjects. Levin and Kitty were particularly happy and conscious of their love that evening. And their happiness in their love seemed to imply a disagreeable slur on those who would have liked to feel the same and could not—and they felt a prick of conscience.
孩子们喝茶的时候，大人们坐在阳台上聊天，好像什么也没发生过一样，尽管他们所有人，尤其是谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇和瓦伦卡，都非常清楚发生了一件虽然是消极的事情，但却是一件好事。非常重要。他们都有同样的感觉，就像一个小学生考试结束后，要么被留在同一个班级，要么永远被学校拒之门外。在场的所有人也都感觉发生了什么事，纷纷议论着一些无关紧要的话题。那天晚上，莱文和基蒂特别高兴，也意识到了他们的爱情。他们在爱情中的幸福似乎意味着对那些想要有同样感觉却不能的人来说是一种令人不快的侮辱——他们感到良心受到刺痛。

‘Mark my words, Alexander will not come,’ said the old princess.
“记住我的话，亚历山大不会来，”老公主说。

That evening they were expecting Stepan Arkadyevitch to come down by train, and the old prince had written that possibly he might come too.
那天晚上，他们期待着斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇乘火车下来，老公爵写信说他可能也会来。

‘And I know why,’ the princess went on; ‘he says that young people ought to be left alone for a while at first.’
“我知道为什么，”公主继续说道。 “他说年轻人首先应该独处一段时间。”

‘But papa has left us alone. We’ve never seen him,’ said Kitty. ‘Besides, we’re not young people!—we’re old, married people by now.’
“但是爸爸却让我们独自一人。我们从来没有见过他，”基蒂说。 “而且，我们已经不是年轻人了！我们现在已经是已婚的老人了。”

‘Only if he doesn’t come, I shall say good-bye to you children,’ said the princess, sighing mournfully.
“除非他不来，我才会向你们孩子们告别。”公主悲伤地叹了口气说道。

‘What nonsense, mamma!’ both the daughters fell upon her at once.
“真是胡说八道，妈妈！”两个女儿立刻扑向她。

‘How do you suppose he is feeling? Why, now...’
‘你猜他感觉如何？为什么现在...'

And suddenly there was an unexpected quiver in the princess’s voice. Her daughters were silent, and looked at one another. ‘Maman always finds something to be miserable about,’ they said in that glance. They did not know that happy as the princess was in her daughter’s house, and useful as she felt herself to be there, she had been extremely miserable, both on her own account and her husband’s, ever since they had married their last and favorite daughter, and the old home had been left empty.
突然，公主的声音里出现了意想不到的颤抖。女儿们沉默不语，面面相觑。 “妈妈总是发现一些令人痛苦的事情，”他们用那眼神说道。他们不知道，尽管公主在她女儿的家里很幸福，而且她觉得自己在那里很有用，但自从他们娶了他们最后一个也是最喜欢的女儿以来，她一直非常痛苦，无论是为了她自己还是她丈夫。 ，而老房子已经空了。

‘What is it, Agafea Mihalovna?’ Kitty asked suddenly of Agafea Mihalovna, who was standing with a mysterious air, and a face full of meaning.
“什么事，阿加菲娅·米哈伊洛芙娜？”基蒂突然向站着的阿加菲娅·米哈伊洛夫娜问道，她神态神秘，一脸意味深长。

‘About supper.’
“关于晚餐。”

‘Well, that’s right,’ said Dolly; ‘you go and arrange about it, and I’ll go and hear Grisha repeat his lesson, or else he will have nothing done all day.’
“嗯，没错，”多莉说。 “你去安排一下，我去听格里沙重复他的课，否则他一整天都会无所事事。”

‘That’s my lesson! No, Dolly, I’m going,’ said Levin, jumping up.
‘这就是我的教训！不，多莉，我要走了。”莱文跳了起来说道。

Grisha, who was by now at a high school, had to go over the lessons of the term in the summer holidays. Darya Alexandrovna, who had been studying Latin with her son in Moscow before, had made it a rule on coming to the Levins’ to go over with him, at least once a day, the most difficult lessons of Latin and arithmetic. Levin had offered to take her place, but the mother, having once overheard Levin’s lesson, and noticing that it was not given exactly as the teacher in Moscow had given it, said resolutely, though with much embarrassment and anxiety not to mortify Levin, that they must keep strictly to the book as the teacher had done, and that she had better undertake it again herself. Levin was amazed both at Stepan Arkadyevitch, who, by neglecting his duty, threw upon the mother the supervision of studies of which she had no comprehension, and at the teachers for teaching the children so badly. But he promised his sister-in-law to give the lessons exactly as she wished. And he went on teaching Grisha, not in his own way, but by the book, and so took little interest in it, and often forgot the hour of the lesson. So it had been today.
格里沙已经上高中了，暑假里必须温习本学期的课程。达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜以前一直在莫斯科和她的儿子一起学习拉丁语，她规定每天至少一次到莱文家和他一起复习最难的拉丁语和算术课。莱文提出要代替她，但是母亲有一次无意中听到了莱文的课，并注意到它与莫斯科老师所讲的不完全一样，她坚决地说，虽然很尴尬和焦虑，以免让莱文难堪。他们必须像老师那样严格遵守书本，而且她最好自己再做一次。列文既对斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇感到惊讶，因为他玩忽职守，把监督她不理解的学习的事情推给了母亲，又对老师们教孩子们的教学方式如此糟糕感到惊讶。但他答应嫂子一定会按照她的意愿上课。他继续教格里沙，不是用他自己的方式，而是用书本，因此他对此没什么兴趣，而且经常忘记上课的时间。今天也是如此。

‘No, I’m going, Dolly, you sit still,’ he said. ‘We’ll do it all properly, like the book. Only when Stiva comes, and we go out shooting, then we shall have to miss it.’
“不，我要走了，多莉，你别动，”他说。 “我们会像这本书一样，把一切都做好。”只有当斯蒂瓦来了，我们出去拍摄时，我们才不得不错过它。

And Levin went to Grisha.
莱文去找格里沙。

Varenka was saying the same thing to Kitty. Even in the happy, well-ordered household of the Levins Varenka had succeeded in making herself useful.
瓦伦卡也对基蒂说了同样的话。即使在莱文斯一家幸福、秩序井然的家庭里，瓦伦卡也成功地让自己变得有用。

‘I’ll see to the supper, you sit still,’ she said, and got up to go to Agafea Mihalovna.
“我来准备晚饭，你别动，”她说，然后起身走向阿加菲娅·米哈伊洛夫娜。

‘Yes, yes, most likely they’ve not been able to get chickens. If so, ours...’
“是的，是的，很可能他们买不到鸡。如果是这样，我们的……”

‘Agafea Mihalovna and I will see about it,’ and Varenka vanished with her.
“阿加菲娅·米哈伊洛夫娜和我会看看这件事。”瓦伦卡和她一起消失了。

‘What a nice girl!’ said the princess.
“多好的一个女孩啊！”公主说。

‘Not nice, maman; she’s an exquisite girl; there’s no one else like her.’
“不太好，妈妈；她是一个精致的女孩；没有人像她一样。

‘So you are expecting Stepan Arkadyevitch today?’ said Sergey Ivanovitch, evidently not disposed to pursue the conversation about Varenka. ‘It would be difficult to find two sons-in-law more unlike than yours,’ he said with a subtle smile. ‘One all movement, only living in society, like a fish in water; the other our Kostya, lively, alert, quick in everything, but as soon as he is in society, he either sinks into apathy, or struggles helplessly like a fish on land.’
“这么说，您今天在等斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇？”谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇说道，显然不愿意继续谈论瓦伦卡的事。 “很难找到两个女婿比你的女婿更不像了，”他微笑着说道。 ‘一身一切运动，唯居社会，如鱼得水；另一个是我们的克斯特亚，活泼、警觉，做什么事都敏捷，但一旦进入社会，他要么陷入冷漠，要么像陆地上的鱼一样无助地挣扎。

‘Yes, he’s very heedless,’ said the princess, addressing Sergey Ivanovitch. ‘I’ve been meaning, indeed, to ask you to tell him that it’s out of the question for her’ (she indicated Kitty) ‘to stay here; that she positively must come to Moscow. He talks of getting a doctor down...’
“是的，他非常粗心。”公主对谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇说道。 “事实上，我一直想请你告诉他，她不可能留在这里”（她指着基蒂）她一定要来莫斯科。他说要让医生下来……”

‘Maman, he’ll do everything; he has agreed to everything,’ Kitty said, angry with her mother for appealing to Sergey Ivanovitch to judge in such a matter.
‘妈妈，他会做一切； “他已经同意了一切。”基蒂说，她对母亲呼吁谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇对这样的事情做出判断感到愤怒。

In the middle of their conversation they heard the snorting of horses and the sound of wheels on the gravel. Dolly had not time to get up to go and meet her husband, when from the window of the room below, where Grisha was having his lesson, Levin leaped out and helped Grisha out after him.
说话间，他们听见马匹的鼻息声和车轮踩在碎石路上的声音。多莉还没来得及起身去见她的丈夫，这时格里沙正在上课的楼下房间的窗户里，莱文跳了出来，扶着格里沙跟着他出去了。

‘It’s Stiva!’ Levin shouted from under the balcony. ‘We’ve finished, Dolly, don’t be afraid!’ he added, and started running like a boy to meet the carriage.
“是斯蒂瓦！”莱文在阳台下喊道。 “我们已经完成了，多莉，别害怕！”他补充道，然后像个男孩一样跑去迎接马车。

‘Is ea id, ejus, ejus, ejus!’ shouted Grisha, skipping along the avenue.
“是 ea id，ejus，ejus，ejus！”格里沙沿着大道蹦蹦跳跳地喊道。

‘And some one else too! Papa, of course!’ cried Levin, stopping at the entrance of the avenue. ‘Kitty, don’t come down the steep staircase, go round.’
‘还有其他人呢！ “当然是爸爸！”莱文停在大道入口处喊道。 “基蒂，不要从陡峭的楼梯下来，绕过去。”

But Levin had been mistaken in taking the person sitting in the carriage for the old prince. As he got nearer to the carriage he saw beside Stepan Arkadyevitch not the prince but a handsome, stout young man in a Scotch cap, with long ends of ribbon behind. This was Vassenka Veslovsky, a distant cousin of the Shtcherbatskys, a brilliant young gentleman in Petersburg and Moscow society. ‘A capital fellow, and a keen sportsman,’ as Stepan Arkadyevitch said, introducing him.
但列文却误把马车里坐着的人当成老王子了。当他走近马车时，他看到斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇身边不是王子，而是一个英俊、粗壮的年轻人，戴着一顶苏格兰帽，后面系着长长的丝带。这是瓦森卡·韦斯洛夫斯基，谢尔巴茨基家族的远房表弟，彼得堡和莫斯科上流社会的一位才华横溢的年轻绅士。正如斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇介绍他时所说，“他是一位资本家，一位热衷于运动的人”。

Not a whit abashed by the disappointment caused by his having come in place of the old prince, Veslovsky greeted Levin gaily, claiming acquaintance with him in the past, and snatching up Grisha into the carriage, lifted him over the pointer that Stepan Arkadyevitch had brought with him.
韦斯洛夫斯基丝毫没有因为自己取代了老王子而感到失望，高兴地向列文打招呼，声称以前就认识他，然后把格里沙拉进了马车，把他举到了斯捷潘·阿尔卡季维奇带来的教鞭上。和他一起。

Levin did not get into the carriage, but walked behind. He was rather vexed at the non-arrival of the old prince, whom he liked more and more the more he saw of him, and also at the arrival of this Vassenka Veslovsky, a quite uncongenial and superfluous person. He seemed to him still more uncongenial and superfluous when, on approaching the steps where the whole party, children and grown-up, were gathered together in much excitement, Levin saw Vassenka Veslovsky, with a particularly warm and gallant air, kissing Kitty’s hand.
莱文没有上马车，而是走在后面。他对老王子没有到来感​​到相当恼火，他越看越喜欢他，而且对瓦森卡·韦斯洛夫斯基的到来感到相当恼火，这个人是一个非常不友善和多余的人。在他看来，他显得更加格格不入和多余，当他走近台阶时，整个聚会，孩子们和大人都兴奋地聚集在一起，列文看到瓦森卡·韦斯洛夫斯基，带着一种特别温暖和英勇的神情，亲吻基蒂的手。

‘Your wife and I are cousins and very old friends,’ said Vassenka Veslovsky, once more shaking Levin’s hand with great warmth.
“你的妻子和我是表兄弟，也是老朋友了，”瓦森卡·韦斯洛夫斯基说道，再次热情地握着莱文的手。

‘Well, are there plenty of birds?’ Stepan Arkadyevitch said to Levin, hardly leaving time for everyone to utter their greetings. ‘We’ve come with the most savage intentions. Why, maman, they’ve not been in Moscow since! Look, Tanya, here’s something for you! Get it, please, it’s in the carriage, behind!’ he talked in all directions. ‘How pretty you’ve grown, Dolly,’ he said to his wife, once more kissing her hand, holding it in one of his, and patting it with the other.
“嗯，鸟儿多吗？”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇对列文说道，几乎没有时间让大家打招呼。 “我们带着最野蛮的意图而来。为什么，妈妈，从那以后他们就没有去过莫斯科了！看，塔尼娅，这是给你的东西！请把它拿起来，它在车厢后面！”他朝四面八方说道。 “你长得多漂亮啊，多莉，”他对妻子说道，再次亲吻她的手，用一只手握住她的手，用另一只手拍拍它。

Levin, who a minute before had been in the happiest frame of mind, now looked darkly at everyone, and everything displeased him.
莱文一分钟前还心情愉快，现在却阴沉地看着每个人，一切都让他不高兴。

‘Who was it he kissed yesterday with those lips?’ he thought, looking at Stepan Arkadyevitch’s tender demonstrations to his wife. He looked at Dolly, and he did not like her either.
“他昨天用那双嘴唇吻的是谁？”他一边想，一边看着斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇对妻子温柔的表现。他看着多莉，他也不喜欢她。

‘She doesn’t believe in his love. So what is she so pleased about? Revolting!’ thought Levin.
‘她不相信他的爱。那么她到底在高兴什么？令人作呕！”莱文想。

He looked at the princess, who had been so dear to him a minute before, and he did not like the manner in which she welcomed this Vassenka, with his ribbons, just as though she were in her own house.
他看着公主，一分钟前她还对他如此亲爱，他不喜欢她用丝带欢迎这个瓦森卡的方式，就像她在自己的家里一样。

Even Sergey Ivanovitch, who had come out too onto the steps, seemed to him unpleasant with the show of cordiality with which he met Stepan Arkadyevitch, though Levin knew that his brother neither liked nor respected Oblonsky.
就连也走上台阶的谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇，在他看来，对他与斯捷潘·阿尔卡季维奇见面时表现出的热情感到不高兴，尽管列文知道他的兄弟既不喜欢也不尊重奥布朗斯基。

And Varenka, even she seemed hateful, with her air sainte nitouche making the acquaintance of this gentleman, while all the while she was thinking of nothing but getting married.
而瓦伦卡，就连她也显得很可恨，她以圣人般的姿态结识了这位绅士，而她一直只想着结婚。

And more hateful than anyone was Kitty for falling in with the tone of gaiety with which this gentleman regarded his visit in the country, as though it were a holiday for himself and everyone else. And, above all, unpleasant was that particular smile with which she responded to his smile.
基蒂比任何人都更可恨，因为她陷入了这位绅士看待他的乡村之行的欢乐语气中，就好像这是他自己和其他人的假期一样。最令人不快的是，她回应他的微笑时所露出的特殊微笑。

Noisily talking, they all went into the house; but as soon as they were all seated, Levin turned and went out.
他们吵吵闹闹地走进了屋子。但他们一坐下，莱文就转身出去了。

Kitty saw something was wrong with her husband. She tried to seize a moment to speak to him alone, but he made haste to get away from her, saying he was wanted at the counting-house. It was long since his own work on the estate had seemed to him so important as at that moment. ‘It’s all holiday for them,’ he thought; ‘but these are no holiday matters, they won’t wait, and there’s no living without them.’
基蒂看出她丈夫有些不对劲。她试图抓紧时间单独和他说话，但他急忙离开她，说会计室正在通缉他。对他来说，自己在庄园里的工作已经很久没有像此刻这样重要了。 “这对他们来说就是假期，”他想。 “但这些都不是假期的事情，它们不会等待，没有它们就无法生活。”

Chapter 7
第7章

Levin came back to the house only when they sent to summon him to supper. On the stairs were standing Kitty and Agafea Mihalovna, consulting about wines for supper.
直到他们派人叫他吃晚饭时，莱文才回到家。楼梯上站着基蒂和阿加菲娅·米哈伊洛芙娜，正在商量晚餐用什么酒。

‘But why are you making all this fuss? Have what we usually do.’
‘但是你为什么要大惊小怪呢？做我们通常做的事情。

‘No, Stiva doesn’t drink...Kostya, stop, what’s the matter?’ Kitty began, hurrying after him, but he strode ruthlessly away to the dining room without waiting for her, and at once joined in the lively general conversation which was being maintained there by Vassenka Veslovsky and Stepan Arkadyevitch.
“不，斯蒂瓦不喝酒……克斯特亚，停下来，怎么了？”基蒂开始追赶他，但他没有等她，就大步走向餐厅，立即加入了热闹的一般谈话。该系统由 Vassenka Veslovsky 和 ​​Stepan Arkadyevitch 维护。

‘Well, what do you say, are we going shooting tomorrow?’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch.
“好吧，你说怎么样，我们明天去拍摄吗？”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇说。

‘Please, do let’s go,’ said Veslovsky, moving to another chair, where he sat down sideways, with one fat leg crossed under him.
“拜托，我们走吧，”韦斯洛夫斯基说道，走到另一把椅子上，侧身坐下，一条胖腿交叉在身下。

‘I shall be delighted, we will go. And have you had any shooting yet this year?’ said Levin to Veslovsky, looking intently at his leg, but speaking with that forced amiability that Kitty knew so well in him, and that was so out of keeping with him. ‘I can’t answer for our finding grouse, but there are plenty of snipe. Only we ought to start early. You’re not tired? Aren’t you tired, Stiva?’
‘我会很高兴，我们会去的。今年你们还开过枪吗？”列文对韦斯洛夫斯基说道，他专注地看着自己的腿，但说话时却带着基蒂非常熟悉的那种强迫性的和蔼可亲，而这与他格格不入。 “我无法回答我们发现松鸡的问题，但有很多鹬。只是我们应该早点开始。你不累吗？你不累吗，斯蒂瓦？

‘Me tired? I’ve never been tired yet. Suppose we stay up all night. Let’s go for a walk!’
‘我累了吗？我还从来没有厌倦过。假设我们整夜不睡觉。让我们出去走走！'

‘Yes, really, let’s not go to bed at all! Capital!’ Veslovsky chimed in.
“是的，真的，我们根本不去睡觉！首都！”韦斯洛夫斯基插话道。

‘Oh, we all know you can do without sleep, and keep other people up too,’ Dolly said to her husband, with that faint note of irony in her voice which she almost always had now with her husband. ‘But to my thinking, it’s time for bed now.... I’m going, I don’t want supper.’
“哦，我们都知道你可以不睡觉，也能让其他人保持清醒，”多莉对她的丈夫说，她的声音里带着淡淡的讽刺意味，这是她现在和丈夫在一起时几乎总是有的。 “但在我看来，现在该睡觉了……我要走了，我不想吃晚饭。”

‘No, do stay a little, Dolly,’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch, going round to her side behind the table where they were having supper. ‘I’ve so much still to tell you.’
“不，多莉，请稍等一下，”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇一边说，一边绕到他们正在吃晚饭的桌子后面。 “我还有很多话要告诉你。”

‘Nothing really, I suppose.’
“我想确实没什么。”

‘Do you know Veslovsky has been at Anna’s, and he’s going to them again? You know they’re hardly fifty miles from you, and I too must certainly go over there. Veslovsky, come here!’
“你知道韦斯洛夫斯基去过安娜家，而且他还会再去那里吗？”你知道他们离你不到五十英里，我也一定要去那里。韦斯洛夫斯基，过来！”

Vassenka crossed over to the ladies, and sat down beside Kitty.
瓦森卡走到女士们身边，在基蒂身边坐下。

‘Ah, do tell me, please; you have stayed with her? How was she?’ Darya Alexandrovna appealed to him.
‘啊，请告诉我吧；你和她呆在一起了吗？她怎么样？”达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜向他求助。

Levin was left at the other end of the table, and though never pausing in his conversation with the princess and Varenka, he saw that there was an eager and mysterious conversation going on between Stepan Arkadyevitch, Dolly, Kitty, and Veslovsky. And that was not all. He saw on his wife’s face an expression of real feeling as she gazed with fixed eyes on the handsome face of Vassenka, who was telling them something with great animation.
列文留在桌子的另一端，尽管他与公主和瓦伦卡的谈话从未停下来，但他看到斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇、多莉、基蒂和韦斯洛夫斯基之间正在进行一场热切而神秘的谈话。这还不是全部。他在妻子的脸上看到了一种真挚的感情，她的目光定定地注视着瓦森卡英俊的脸庞，而瓦森卡正兴致勃勃地向他们讲述着什么。

‘It’s exceedingly nice at their place,’ Veslovsky was telling them about Vronsky and Anna. ‘I can’t, of course, take it upon myself to judge, but in their house you feel the real feeling of home.’
“他们的地方非常好，”韦斯洛夫斯基向他们讲述渥伦斯基和安娜。 “当然，我不能自行做出判断，但在他们的房子里，你会感受到真正的家的感觉。”

‘What do they intend doing?’
“他们想做什么？”

‘I believe they think of going to Moscow.’
“我相信他们会考虑去莫斯科。”

‘How jolly it would be for us all to go over to them together! When are you going there?’ Stepan Arkadyevitch asked Vassenka.
‘如果我们大家一起去见他们那该多高兴啊！ “你什么时候去那儿？”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇问瓦森卡。

‘I’m spending July there.’
“我要在那里度过七月。”

‘Will you go?’ Stepan Arkadyevitch said to his wife.
“你愿意去吗？”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇对他的妻子说。

‘I’ve been wanting to a long while; I shall certainly go,’ said Dolly. ‘I am sorry for her, and I know her. She’s a splendid woman. I will go alone, when you go back, and then I shall be in no one’s way. And it will be better indeed without you.’
“我已经想要很久了；我一定会去的，”多莉说。 “我为她感到难过，我了解她。她是一位出色的女人。当你回去的时候，我会一个人去，然后我就不会妨碍任何人了。没有你，一切都会更好。”

‘To be sure,’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch. ‘And you, Kitty?’
“当然，”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇说。 “你呢，基蒂？”

‘I? Why should I go?’ Kitty said, flushing all over, and she glanced round at her husband.
'我？ “我为什么要去？”凯蒂满脸通红地说，她回头看了一眼她的丈夫。

‘Do you know Anna Arkadyevna, then?’ Veslovsky asked her. ‘She’s a very fascinating woman.’
“那么你认识安娜·阿尔卡季耶芙娜吗？”韦斯洛夫斯基问她。 “她是一个非常迷人的女人。”

‘Yes,’ she answered Veslovsky, crimsoning still more. She got up and walked across to her husband.
“是的，”韦斯洛夫斯基回答道，脸更红了。她站起来，走到她丈夫身边。

‘Are you going shooting, then, tomorrow?’ she said.
“那么明天你要去拍摄吗？”她说。

His jealousy had in these few moments, especially at the flush that had overspread her cheeks while she was talking to Veslovsky, gone far indeed. Now as he heard her words, he construed them in his own fashion. Strange as it was to him afterwards to recall it, it seemed to him at the moment clear that in asking whether he was going shooting, all she cared to know was whether he would give that pleasure to Vassenka Veslovsky, with whom, as he fancied, she was in love.
在这几分钟里，尤其是当她与韦斯洛夫斯基交谈时，她的脸颊泛起红晕时，他的嫉妒确实已经过分了。现在，当他听到她的话时，他以自己的方式解释了它们。尽管事后回想起这件事对他来说很奇怪，但此刻他似乎很清楚，在问他是否要去射击时，她只想知道他是否会给瓦森卡·韦斯洛夫斯基带来这种乐趣，正如他所想象的那样，她恋爱了。

‘Yes, I’m going,’ he answered her in an unnatural voice, disagreeable to himself.
“是的，我要去。”他用一种不自然的声音回答她，他自己也觉得不舒服。

‘No, better spend the day here tomorrow, or Dolly won’t see anything of her husband, and set off the day after,’ said Kitty.
“不，最好明天在这里度过一天，否则多莉就看不到她丈夫的任何东西，第二天就出发了，”基蒂说。

The motive of Kitty’s words was interpreted by Levin thus: ‘Don’t separate me from him. I don’t care about your going, but do let me enjoy the society of this delightful young man.’
莱文这样解释基蒂的话的动机：“不要把我和他分开。”我不在乎你的去向，但请让我享受与这个令人愉快的年轻人的交往。

‘Oh, if you wish, we’ll stay here tomorrow,’ Levin answered, with peculiar amiability.
“哦，如果你愿意的话，我们明天就留在这里，”莱文以一种特别和蔼的态度回答道。

Vassenka meanwhile, utterly unsuspecting the misery his presence had occasioned, got up from the table after Kitty, and watching her with smiling and admiring eyes, he followed her.
与此同时，瓦森卡完全没有意识到他的出现给她带来了痛苦，他跟着凯蒂从桌子上站起来，用微笑和钦佩的眼神看着她，然后跟着她。

Levin saw that look. He turned white, and for a minute he could hardly breathe. ‘How dare he look at my wife like that!’ was the feeling that boiled within him.
莱文看到了那种表情。他脸色惨白，一时间几乎无法呼吸。 “他怎么敢这样看着我的妻子！”他内心沸腾着。

‘Tomorrow, then? Do, please, let us go,’ said Vassenka, sitting down on a chair, and again crossing his leg as his habit was.
‘那么明天呢？拜托，让我们走吧，”瓦森卡说着，坐在椅子上，再次按照他的习惯翘起了二郎腿。

Levin’s jealousy went further still. Already he saw himself a deceived husband, looked upon by his wife and her lover as simply necessary to provide them with the conveniences and pleasures of life.... But in spite of that he made polite and hospitable inquiries of Vassenka about his shooting, his gun, and his boots, and agreed to go shooting next day.
莱文的嫉妒更进一步了。他已经看到自己是一个被欺骗的丈夫，被他的妻子和她的情人视为为他们提供生活便利和乐趣所必需的……但尽管如此，他还是礼貌而热情地向瓦森卡询问了他的枪击事件，他的枪和靴子，并同意第二天去射击。

Happily for Levin, the old princess cut short his agonies by getting up herself and advising Kitty to go to bed. But even at this point Levin could not escape another agony. As he said good-night to his hostess, Vassenka would again have kissed her hand, but Kitty, reddening, drew back her hand and said with a naive bluntness, for which the old princess scolded her afterwards:
令莱文高兴的是，老公主自己站起来并建议基蒂上床睡觉，从而缩短了他的痛苦。但即使在这一点上，莱文也无法逃脱另一场痛苦。当他向女主人道晚安时，瓦森卡又想亲吻她的手，但基蒂涨红了脸，缩回手，天真地直率地说，老公主为此责备了她：

‘We don’t like that fashion.’
“我们不喜欢那种时尚。”

In Levin’s eyes she was to blame for having allowed such relations to arise, and still more to blame for showing so awkwardly that she did not like them.
在莱文看来，她应该为允许这种关系的发生而受到责备，更应该责怪她笨拙地表现出她不喜欢它们。

‘Why, how can one want to go to bed!’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch, who, after drinking several glasses of wine at supper, was now in his most charming and sentimental humor. ‘Look, Kitty,’ he said, pointing to the moon, which had just risen behind the lime trees —‘how exquisite! Veslovsky, this is the time for a serenade. You know, he has a splendid voice; we practiced songs together along the road. He has brought some lovely songs with him, two new ones. Varvara Andreevna and he must sing some duets.’
“哎呀，一个人怎么会想去睡觉呢！”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇说道，他在晚餐时喝了几杯酒后，现在正处于他最迷人、最感伤的幽默状态。 “看，基蒂，”他指着刚刚从椴树后面升起的月亮说道，“多美呀！韦斯洛夫斯基，现在是小夜曲的时间。你知道，他有一副美妙的嗓音；我们一路上一起练习歌曲。他带来了一些可爱的歌曲，两首新歌。瓦尔瓦拉·安德烈耶夫娜和他必须唱一些二重唱。

When the party had broken up, Stepan Arkadyevitch walked a long while about the avenue with Veslovsky; their voices could be heard singing one of the new songs.
聚会散去后，斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇和韦斯洛夫斯基在大街上走了很长一段时间。可以听到他们的声音在唱一首新歌。

Levin hearing these voices sat scowling in an easy-chair in his wife’s bedroom, and maintained an obstinate silence when she asked him what was wrong. But when at last with a timid glance she hazarded the question: ‘Was there perhaps something you disliked about Veslovsky?’—it all burst out, and he told her all. He was humiliated himself at what he was saying, and that exasperated him all the more.
莱文听到这些声音，坐在妻子卧室的安乐椅上，皱着眉头，当她问他出了什么事时，他保持着固执的沉默。但最后，她胆怯地看了一眼，大胆地问：“韦斯洛夫斯基也许有什么地方让你不喜欢吗？”——一切都爆发了，他把一切都告诉了她。他自己因为自己所说的话而感到羞辱，这让他更加恼怒。

He stood facing her with his eyes glittering menacingly under his scowling brows, and he squeezed his strong arms across his chest, as though he were straining every nerve to hold himself in. The expression of his face would have been grim, and even cruel, if it had not at the same time had a look of suffering which touched her. His jaws were twitching, and his voice kept breaking.
他正对着她站着，皱起的眉头下，双眸闪烁着凶狠的光芒，有力的双臂紧紧抱在胸前，仿佛竭尽全力地克制着自己。他脸上的表情是严峻的，甚至是残忍的，如果不是同时有一种让她感动的痛苦表情的话。他的下巴抽搐着，声音不断沙哑。

‘You must understand that I’m not jealous, that’s a nasty word. I can’t be jealous, and believe that.... I can’t say what I feel, but this is awful.... I’m not jealous, but I’m wounded, humiliated that anybody dare think, that anybody dare look at you with eyes like that.’
‘你必须明白，我不是嫉妒，这是一个令人讨厌的词。我不能嫉妒，也相信……我不能说出我的感受，但这太可怕了……我不嫉妒，但我受伤了，被羞辱了，因为有人敢这么想，谁都敢用那样的眼神看你。”

‘Eyes like what?’ said Kitty, trying as conscientiously as possible to recall every word and gesture of that evening and every shade implied in them.
“眼睛像什么？”基蒂问道，尽可能认真地回忆那天晚上的每一句话、每一个动作，以及其中暗示的每一个阴影。

At the very bottom of her heart she did think there had been something precisely at the moment when he had crossed over after her to the other end of the table; but she dared not own it even to herself, and would have been even more unable to bring herself to say so to him, and so increase his suffering.
她内心深处确实认为，当他跟着她走到桌子的另一端的那一刻，一定有什么事情发生。但她连自己都不敢承认，更不敢对他说出来，徒增他的痛苦。

‘And what can there possibly be attractive about me as I am now?...’
“那么现在的我还有什么吸引力呢？……”

‘Ah!’ he cried, clutching at his head, ‘you shouldn’t say that!... If you had been attractive then...’
“啊！”他捂着头叫道，“你不应该这么说！……如果你当时很有吸引力的话……”

‘Oh, no, Kostya, oh, wait a minute, oh, do listen!’ she said, looking at him with an expression of pained commiseration. ‘Why, what can you be thinking about! When for me there’s no one in the world, no one, no one!... Would you like me never to see anyone?’
“哦，不，克斯特亚，哦，等一下，哦，听着！”她说道，脸上带着痛苦和同情的表情。 ‘怎么，你在想什么啊！对我来说，世界上没有人，没有人，没有人！……你希望我永远见不到任何人吗？

For the first minute she had been offended at his jealousy; she was angry that the slightest amusement, even the most innocent, should be forbidden her; but now she would readily have sacrificed, not merely such trifles, but everything, for his peace of mind, to save him from the agony he was suffering.
起初，她因他的嫉妒而感到生气。她很生气，因为禁止她做任何最轻微的娱乐活动，即使是最天真无邪的娱乐活动。但现在她愿意牺牲，不仅仅是这些小事，而是一切，为了他内心的平静，把他从痛苦中解救出来。

‘You must understand the horror and comedy of my position,’ he went on in a desperate whisper; ‘that he’s in my house, that he’s done nothing improper positively except his free and easy airs and the way he sits on his legs. He thinks it’s the best possible form, and so I’m obliged to be civil to him.’
“你一定明白我的处境既恐怖又搞笑，”他绝望地低声说道。 “他在我家里，除了他自由自在的神态和他腿上坐着的方式之外，他没有做过任何不正当的事情。”他认为这是最好的形式，所以我有义务对他保持礼貌。

‘But, Kostya, you’re exaggerating,’ said Kitty, at the bottom of her heart rejoicing at the depth of his love for her, shown now in his jealousy.
“但是，克斯特亚，你太夸张了，”基蒂说，她在心底为他对她的爱之深而感到高兴，现在他的嫉妒表现在了这一点上。

‘The most awful part of it all is that you’re just as you always are, and especially now when to me you’re something sacred, and we’re so happy, so particularly happy—and all of a sudden a little wretch.... He’s not a little wretch; why should I abuse him? I have nothing to do with him. But why should my, and your, happiness...’
“这一切中最可怕的部分是，你还是一如既往，尤其是现在，对我来说，你是神圣的东西，我们是如此幸福，如此特别幸福——突然之间，你变得有点可怜了。” ……他可不是个小可怜虫；他是个可怜虫。我为什么要虐待他？我和他没有任何关系。但为什么我的、你的幸福……”

‘Do you know, I understand now what it’s all come from,’ Kitty was beginning.
“你知道吗，我现在明白这一切是怎么来的了，”基蒂开始说道。

‘Well, what? what?’
‘嗯，什么？什么？'

‘I saw how you looked while we were talking at supper.’
“我们吃饭时聊天的时候我看到了你的样子。”

‘Well, well!’ Levin said in dismay.
“好吧，好吧！”莱文沮丧地说。

She told him what they had been talking about. And as she told him, she was breathless with emotion. Levin was silent for a space, then he scanned her pale and distressed face, and suddenly he clutched at his head.
她告诉他他们正在谈论的事情。正如她告诉他的那样，她激动得喘不过气来。莱文沉默了一会儿，然后扫视着她苍白而痛苦的脸，突然捂住了自己的头。

‘Katya, I’ve been worrying you! Darling, forgive me! It’s madness! Katya, I’m a criminal. And how could you be so distressed at such idiocy?’
“卡蒂亚，我一直在担心你！亲爱的，原谅我吧！这太疯狂了！卡蒂亚，我是一个罪犯。你怎么会对这样的白痴感到如此痛苦呢？

‘Oh, I was sorry for you.’
“哦，我为你感到难过。”

‘For me? for me? How mad I am!... But why make you miserable? It’s awful to think that any outsider can shatter our happiness.’
'为我？为我？我多么生气啊！...但是为什么要让你痛苦呢？想到任何外人都可以破坏我们的幸福，真是太可怕了。”

‘It’s humiliating too, of course.’
“当然，这也很丢脸。”

‘Oh, then I’ll keep him here all the summer, and will overwhelm him with civility,’ said Levin, kissing her hands. ‘You shall see. Tomorrow.... Oh, yes, we are going tomorrow.’
“哦，那我就让他整个夏天留在这里，并用礼貌待他，”莱文一边说，一边亲吻她的手。 ‘你将会看到。明天……哦，是的，我们明天就去。”

Chapter 8
第8章

Next day, before the ladies were up, the wagonette and a trap for the shooting party were at the door, and Laska, aware since early morning that they were going shooting, after much whining and darting to and fro, had sat herself down in the wagonette beside the coachman, and, disapproving of the delay, was excitedly watching the door from which the sportsmen still did not come out. The first to come out was Vassenka Veslovsky, in new high boots that reached half-way up his thick thighs, in a green blouse, with a new Russian leather cartridge-belt, and in his Scotch cap with ribbons, with a brand-new English gun without a sling. Laska flew up to him, welcomed him, and jumping up, asked him in her own way whether the others were coming soon, but getting no answer from him, she returned to her post of observation and sank into repose again, her head on one side, and one ear pricked up to listen. At last the door opened with a creak, and Stepan Arkadyevitch’s spot-and-tan pointer Krak flew out, running round and round and turning over in the air. Stepan Arkadyevitch himself followed with a gun in his hand and a cigar in his mouth.
第二天，在女士们起床之前，射击队的马车和陷阱就在门口，拉斯卡一早就意识到他们要去射击，在抱怨了好一会儿，来回飞奔之后，她坐在了车里。马车在车夫旁边，他不赞成耽误时间，兴奋地看着门口，运动员们仍然没有出来。第一个出来的是瓦森卡·韦斯洛夫斯基，穿着新的高筒靴，靴子长到粗壮的大腿的一半，穿着一件绿色的衬衫，系着一条新的俄罗斯皮带，头戴一顶饰有丝带的苏格兰帽，戴着崭新的帽子。没有背带的英国枪。拉斯卡飞到他面前，欢迎他，然后跳起来，以她自己的方式问他其他人是否很快就会来，但没有得到他的回答，她回到了观察的位置，再次陷入了休息，她的头靠在一根绳子上。一边，一只耳朵竖起来听。最后，门吱呀一声打开了，斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇那只棕褐色的指针克拉克飞了出来，在空中跑来跑去，翻来覆去。斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇本人也跟在后面，手里拿着枪，嘴里叼着雪茄。

‘Good dog, good dog, Krak!’ he cried encouragingly to the dog, who put his paws up on his chest, catching at his game bag. Stepan Arkadyevitch was dressed in rough leggings and spats, in torn trousers and a short coat. On his head there was a wreck of a hat of indefinite form, but his gun of a new patent was a perfect gem, and his game bag and cartridge belt, though worn, were of the very best quality.
“好狗，好狗，克拉克！”他鼓励狗喊道，狗把爪子放在他的胸前，抓住了他的游戏包。斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇穿着粗糙的打底裤和长筒靴，裤子破烂，外套短外套。他的头上有一顶形状不定的帽子残骸，但他的新专利枪是完美的宝石，他的游戏包和弹带虽然破旧，但质量非常好。

Vassenka Veslovsky had had no notion before that it was truly chic for a sportsman to be in tatters, but to have his shooting outfit of the best quality. He saw it now as he looked at Stepan Arkadyevitch, radiant in his rags, graceful, well-fed, and joyous, a typical Russian nobleman. And he made up his mind that next time he went shooting he would certainly adopt the same get-up.
瓦森卡·韦斯洛夫斯基之前并不知道，对于一名运动员来说，衣衫褴褛才是真正的时尚，但拥有最好质量的射击服装。现在，当他看着斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇时，他就明白了这一点。他衣衫褴褛，容光焕发，举止优雅，吃得饱饱的，快乐，是一位典型的俄罗斯贵族。他暗下决心，下次去拍摄时，一定要穿同样的装束。

‘Well, and what about our host?’ he asked.
“那么，我们的主人呢？”他问道。

‘A young wife,’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch, smiling.
“一位年轻的妻子，”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇微笑着说道。

‘Yes, and such a charming one!’
“是的，而且非常迷人！”

‘He came down dressed. No doubt he’s run up to her again.’
‘他穿着衣服下来了。毫无疑问，他又跑向她了。

Stepan Arkadyevitch guessed right. Levin had run up again to his wife to ask her once more if she forgave him for his idiocy yesterday, and, moreover, to beg her for Christ’s sake to be more careful. The great thing was for her to keep away from the children—they might any minute push against her. Then he had once more to hear her declare that she was not angry with him for going away for two days, and to beg her to be sure to send him a note next morning by a servant on horseback, to write him, if it were but two words only, to let him know that all was well with her.
斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇猜对了。莱文又跑到他妻子面前，再次问她是否原谅了他昨天的愚蠢行为，并且求她看在老天爷的份上多加小心。对她来说最重要的是远离孩子们——他们随时可能推挤她。然后他又得听到她说，她并没有因为他离开两天而生他的气，并恳求她一定要在第二天早上让一个骑马的仆人给他寄一张纸条，写信给他，如果是的话。但只有两个字，让他知道她一切都好。

Kitty was distressed, as she always was, at parting for a couple of days from her husband, but when she saw his eager figure, looking big and strong in his shooting-boots and his white blouse, and a sort of sportsman elation and excitement incomprehensible to her, she forgot her own chagrin for the sake of his pleasure, and said good-bye to him cheerfully.
凯蒂像往常一样，因与丈夫分离几天而感到痛苦，但当她看到他热切的身影，穿着射击靴和白衬衫，看起来又大又壮，还有一种运动员的兴高采烈和兴奋时她无法理解，为了他的高兴，她忘记了自己的懊恼，高高兴兴地向他告别。

‘Pardon, gentlemen!’ he said, running out onto the steps. ‘Have you put the lunch in? Why is the chestnut on the right? Well, it doesn’t matter. Laska, down; go and lie down!’
“请原谅，先生们！”他一边说，一边跑到台阶上。 ‘你把午饭放进去了吗？为什么栗子在右边？好吧，没关系。拉斯卡，下来；去躺下吧！

‘Put it with the herd of oxen,’ he said to the herdsman, who was waiting for him at the steps with some question. ‘Excuse me, here comes another villain.’
“把它和牛群放在一起，”他对在台阶上等他的牧人说，带着一些疑问。 “对不起，又来了一个坏人。”

Levin jumped out of the wagonette, in which he had already taken his seat, to meet the carpenter, who came towards the steps with a rule in his hand.
列文从已经坐好的马车上跳下来，去见木匠，木匠手里拿着一把尺子朝台阶走来。

‘You didn’t come to the counting house yesterday, and now you’re detaining me. Well, what is it?’
‘你昨天没有来账房，现在又拘留我了。嗯，那是什么？

‘Would your honor let me make another turning? It’s only three steps to add. And we make it just fit at the same time. It will be much more convenient.’
“法官大人可以让我再转一次吗？”只需三步即可添加。我们同时使其恰到好处。这会方便得多。

‘You should have listened to me,’ Levin answered with annoyance. ‘I said: Put the lines and then fit in the steps. Now there’s no setting it right. Do as I told you, and make a new staircase.’
“你应该听我的，”莱文恼怒地回答。 “我说：放好线，然后装进台阶。”现在没有办法正确设置。按照我告诉你的去做，制作一个新楼梯。

The point was that in the lodge that was being built the carpenter had spoiled the staircase, fitting it together without calculating the space it was to fill, so that the steps were all sloping when it was put in place. Now the carpenter wanted, keeping the same staircase, to add three steps.
问题在于，在正在建造的小屋中，木匠损坏了楼梯，在没有计算其要填充的空间的情况下将其组装在一起，因此当楼梯安装到位时，台阶都是倾斜的。现在木匠想在保留原来的楼梯的情况下增加三个台阶。

‘It will be much better.’
“会好很多。”

‘But where’s your staircase coming out with its three steps?’
“但是你的三级楼梯在哪里呢？”

‘Why, upon my word, sir,’ the carpenter said with a contemptuous smile. ‘It comes out right at the very spot. It starts, so to speak,’ he said, with a persuasive gesture; ‘it comes down, and comes down, and comes out.’
“哎呀，说实话，先生，”木匠轻蔑地微笑着说道。 ‘它就在那个地方出现了。可以这么说，一切都开始了，”他用一种有说服力的姿态说道。 “它下来了，下来了，然后出来了。”

‘But three steps will add to the length too...where is it to come out?’
“但是三步也会增加长度……它从哪里出来呢？”

‘Why, to be sure, it’ll start from the bottom and go up and go up, and come out so,’ the carpenter said obstinately and convincingly.
“当然，它会从底部开始，一直上升，上升，最后出来，”木匠固执而令人信服地说。

‘It’ll reach the ceiling and the wall.’
“它会到达天花板和墙壁。”

‘Upon my word! Why, it’ll go up, and up, and come out like this.’
‘我保证！为什么，它会上升，上升，然后像这样出来。

Levin took out a ramrod and began sketching him the staircase in the dust.
莱文拿出一根推弹杆，开始在灰尘中画出楼梯的草图。

‘There, do you see?’
“那儿，你看到了吗？”

‘As your honor likes,’ said the carpenter, with a sudden gleam in his eyes, obviously understanding the thing at last. ‘It seems it’ll be best to make a new one.’
“如阁下所愿，”木匠说道，他的眼睛里突然闪过一丝光芒，显然终于明白了事情的意思。 “看来最好还是做一个新的。”

‘Well, then, do it as you’re told,’ Levin shouted, seating himself in the wagonette. ‘Down! Hold the dogs, Philip!’
“好吧，那就按照吩咐去做吧，”莱文一边喊道，一边坐在马车上。 '向下！抓住狗，菲利普！

Levin felt now at leaving behind all his family and household cares such an eager sense of joy in life and expectation that he was not disposed to talk. Besides that, he had that feeling of concentrated excitement that every sportsman experiences as he approaches the scene of action. If he had anything on his mind at that moment, it was only the doubt whether they would start anything in the Kolpensky marsh, whether Laska would show to advantage in comparison with Krak, and whether he would shoot well that day himself. Not to disgrace himself before a new spectator—not to be outdone by Oblonsky—that too was a thought that crossed his brain.
莱文现在感觉抛开了所有的家庭和家务，对生活和期望充满了强烈的喜悦感，以至于他不想说话。除此之外，他还有一种每个运动员在接近比赛现场时都会经历的那种高度集中的兴奋感。如果他当时有什么想法的话，那就只是怀疑他们是否会在科尔彭斯基沼泽中开始任何事情，拉斯卡与克拉克相比是否会表现出优势，以及他自己那天能否射得好。不要在新观众面前丢脸——不要被奥布隆斯基超越——这也是他脑子里闪过的一个念头。

Oblonsky was feeling the same, and he too was not talkative. Vassenka Veslovsky kept up alone a ceaseless flow of cheerful chatter. As he listened to him now, Levin felt ashamed to think how unfair he had been to him the day before. Vassenka was really a nice fellow, simple, good-hearted, and very good-humored. If Levin had met him before he was married, he would have made friends with him. Levin rather disliked his holiday attitude to life and a sort of free and easy assumption of elegance. It was as though he assumed a high degree of importance in himself that could not be disputed, because he had long nails and a stylish cap, and everything else to correspond; but this could be forgiven for the sake of his good nature and good breeding. Levin liked him for his good education, for speaking French and English with such an excellent accent, and for being a man of his world.
奥布朗斯基也有同样的感觉，但他也不说话。瓦森卡·韦斯洛夫斯基独自一人不停地欢快地闲聊。现在听着他的话，莱文一想到前一天他对自己有多么不公平，就感到羞愧。瓦森卡确实是一个很好的人，简单，心地善良，而且很有幽默感。如果莱文在结婚前认识他，他一定会和他成为朋友的。莱文相当不喜欢他的度假生活态度和一种洒脱的优雅态度。就好像他对自己有着无可争议的高度重视，因为他留着长指甲，戴着一顶时髦的帽子，其他一切都与之相配；但考虑到他的善良本性和良好教养，这是可以原谅的。莱文喜欢他，因为他受过良好的教育，讲法语和英语时口音非常好，而且他是一个活在自己世界里的人。

Vassenka was extremely delighted with the left horse, a horse of the Don Steppes. He kept praising him enthusiastically. ‘How fine it must be galloping over the steppes on a steppe horse! Eh? isn’t it?’ he said. He had imagined riding on a steppe horse as something wild and romantic, and it turned out nothing of the sort. But his simplicity, particularly in conjunction with his good looks, his amiable smile, and the grace of his movements, was very attractive. Either because his nature was sympathetic to Levin, or because Levin was trying to atone for his sins of the previous evening by seeing nothing but what was good in him, anyway he liked his society.
瓦森卡对左边的马非常满意，这是一匹来自顿河大草原的马。他不断地热情地称赞他。 ‘骑着草原马在草原上驰骋该多好啊！呃？不是吗？”他说。他本以为骑着草原马是一件狂野而浪漫的事情，但事实并非如此。但他的单纯，特别是与他英俊的相貌、和蔼可亲的笑容以及优雅的动作相结合，非常吸引人。要么是因为他的本性同情莱文，要么是因为莱文试图通过只看到他身上的优点来弥补前一天晚上的罪过，无论如何他喜欢他的社会。

After they had driven over two miles from home, Veslovsky all at once felt for a cigar and his pocketbook, and did not know whether he had lost them or left them on the table. In the pocketbook there were thirty-seven pounds, and so the matter could not be left in uncertainty.
他们开车离开家两英里后，韦斯洛夫斯基突然摸到了一根雪茄和他的钱包，不知道是丢了还是落在桌子上了。钱包里有三十七英镑，所以这件事不能悬而未决。

‘Do you know what, Levin, I’ll gallop home on that left trace-horse. That will be splendid. Eh?’ he said, preparing to get out.
“你知道吗，莱文，我会骑着那匹左边的追踪马飞奔回家。那将是美妙的。嗯？”他说，准备出去。

‘No, why should you?’ answered Levin, calculating that Vassenka could hardly weigh less than seventeen stone. ‘I’ll send the coachman.’
“不，你为什么要这么做呢？”莱文回答道，他计算出瓦森卡的重量不可能低于十七英石。 “我会派车夫来。”

The coachman rode back on the trace-horse, and Levin himself drove the remaining pair.
车夫骑着追踪马返回，莱文亲自驾驶剩下的两匹马。

Chapter 9
第9章

‘Well, now what’s our plan of campaign? Tell us all about it,’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch.
“那么，现在我们的竞选计划是什么？告诉我们一切吧，”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇说道。

‘Our plan is this. Now we’re driving to Gvozdyov. In Gvozdyov there’s a grouse marsh on this side, and beyond Gvozdyov come some magnificent snipe marshes where there are grouse too. It’s hot now, and we’ll get there—it’s fifteen miles or so—towards evening and have some evening shooting; we’ll spend the night there and go on tomorrow to the bigger moors.’
‘我们的计划是这样的。现在我们正开车前往格沃兹迪奥夫。格沃兹迪奥夫的这一边有一片松鸡沼泽，格沃兹迪奥夫的另一边是一些壮丽的鹬沼泽，那里也有松鸡。现在天气很热，我们会在傍晚时分到达那里——距离大约十五英里——并进行一些夜间拍摄；我们将在那里过夜，明天继续前往更大的荒原。

‘And is there nothing on the way?’
“路上没有什么东西吗？”

‘Yes; but we’ll reserve ourselves; besides it’s hot. There are two nice little places, but I doubt there being anything to shoot.’
'是的;但我们会保留自己；除此之外，它很热。有两个不错的小地方，但我怀疑没有什么可以拍摄的。”

Levin would himself have liked to go into these little places, but they were near home; he could shoot them over any time, and they were only little places—there would hardly be room for three to shoot. And so, with some insincerity, he said that he doubted there being anything to shoot. When they reached a little marsh Levin would have driven by, but Stepan Arkadyevitch, with the experienced eye of a sportsman, at once detected reeds visible from the road.
莱文本人也想去这些小地方，但它们离家很近。他随时都可以向他们射击，而且这些地方很小——几乎没有空间容纳三个人射击。因此，他有些不真诚地表示，他怀疑是否有什么东西可以拍摄。当他们到达一片小沼泽地时，列文本来会驾车经过，但斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇凭借运动员经验丰富的眼睛，立即发现了路上可见的芦苇。

‘Shan’t we try that?’ he said, pointing to the little marsh.
“我们不试试吗？”他指着小沼泽说。

‘Levin, do, please! how delightful!’ Vassenka Veslovsky began begging, and Levin could but consent.
“莱文，请这样做！多么令人愉快啊！”瓦森卡·韦斯洛夫斯基开始恳求，莱文只能同意。

Before they had time to stop, the dogs had flown one before the other into the marsh.
他们还没来得及停下来，狗就一前一后地飞进了沼泽地。

‘Krak! Laska!...’
‘克拉克！拉斯卡！……”

The dogs came back.
狗们回来了。

‘There won’t be room for three. I’ll stay here,’ said Levin, hoping they would find nothing but peewits, who had been startled by the dogs, and turning over in their flight, were plaintively wailing over the marsh.
“没有足够的空间容纳三个人。我会留在这里，”莱文说，希望除了被狗吓到的皮威特人之外什么也找不到，他们在逃跑时翻了个身，在沼泽地上哀怨地哀嚎。

‘No! Come along, Levin, let’s go together!’ Veslovsky called.
'不！来吧，莱文，我们一起去！”韦斯洛夫斯基喊道。

‘Really, there’s not room. Laska, back, Laska! You won’t want another dog, will you?’
‘真的，没有空间了。拉斯卡，回来，拉斯卡！你不会再想要另一只狗了，是吗？

Levin remained with the wagonette, and looked enviously at the sportsmen. They walked right across the marsh. Except little birds and peewits, of which Vassenka killed one, there was nothing in the marsh.
莱文留在马车旁，羡慕地看着运动员们。他们径直穿过沼泽地。除了瓦森卡杀死了一只小鸟和小皮鹬之外，沼泽里什么也没有。

‘Come, you see now that it was not that I grudged the marsh,’ said Levin, ‘only it’s wasting time.’
“得了吧，你现在明白了，我并不是怨恨这片沼泽，”莱文说，“只是它在浪费时间。”

‘Oh, no, it was jolly all the same. Did you see us?’ said Vassenka Veslovsky, clambering awkwardly into the wagonette with his gun and his peewit in his hands. ‘How splendidly I shot this bird! Didn’t I? Well, shall we soon be getting to the real place?’
“哦，不，还是很高兴。 “你看到我们了吗？”瓦森卡·韦斯洛夫斯基一边说，一边笨拙地爬上马车，手里拿着枪和皮特威特。 “我把这只鸟射得多么出色啊！我没有吗？好吧，我们很快就能到达真正的地方了吗？

The horses started off suddenly, Levin knocked his head against the stock of someone’s gun, and there was the report of a shot. The gun did actually go off first, but that was how it seemed to Levin. It appeared that Vassenka Veslovsky had pulled only one trigger, and had left the other hammer still cocked. The charge flew into the ground without doing harm to anyone. Stepan Arkadyevitch shook his head and laughed reprovingly at Veslovsky. But Levin had not the heart to reprove him. In the first place, any reproach would have seemed to be called forth by the danger he had incurred and the bump that had come up on Levin’s forehead. And besides, Veslovsky was at first so naively distressed, and then laughed so good-humoredly and infectiously at their general dismay, that one could not but laugh with him.
马匹突然出发，莱文的头撞到了某人的枪托上，然后传来一声枪响。枪确实先响了，但在莱文看来就是这样。瓦森卡·韦斯洛夫斯基似乎只扣动了一个扳机，而另一把击锤仍处于待击状态。炸药飞入地面，没有造成任何人伤害。斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇摇摇头，对韦斯洛夫斯基责备地笑了笑。但列文不忍心责备他。首先，任何责备似乎都是由他所遭受的危险和莱文额头上出现的肿块引起的。此外，韦斯洛夫斯基一开始只是天真地感到苦恼，然后对他们普遍的沮丧而笑得如此幽默和富有感染力，以至于人们不得不和他一起笑。

When they reached the second marsh, which was fairly large, and would inevitably take some time to shoot over, Levin tried to persuade them to pass it by. But Veslovsky again overpersuaded him. Again, as the marsh was narrow, Levin, like a good host, remained with the carriage.
当他们到达第二个沼泽地时，这片沼泽相当大，不可避免地需要一些时间才能过去，莱文试图说服他们过去。但韦斯洛夫斯基再次说服了他。由于沼泽地很窄，莱文像一位好主人一样，留在了马车旁。

Krak made straight for some clumps of sedge. Vassenka Veslovsky was the first to run after the dog. Before Stepan Arkadyevitch had time to come up, a grouse flew out. Veslovsky missed it and it flew into an unmown meadow. This grouse was left for Veslovsky to follow up. Krak found it again and pointed, and Veslovsky shot it and went back to the carriage. ‘Now you go and I’ll stay with the horses,’ he said.
克拉克直奔几丛莎草而去。瓦森卡·韦斯洛夫斯基（Vassenka Veslovsky）第一个追赶狗。斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇还没来得及上来，一只松鸡就飞了出来。维斯洛夫斯基没有注意到它，它飞进了一片未修剪的草地上。这只松鸡留给韦斯洛夫斯基去跟进。克拉克再次发现了它并指出，韦斯洛夫斯基射击了它并回到了马车上。 “现在你走吧，我留下来照顾马，”他说。

Levin had begun to feel the pangs of a sportsman’s envy. He handed the reins to Veslovsky and walked into the marsh.
莱文开始感受到运动员嫉妒的痛苦。他把缰绳交给维斯洛夫斯基，走进了沼泽地。

Laska, who had been plaintively whining and fretting against the injustice of her treatment, flew straight ahead to a hopeful place that Levin knew well, and that Krak had not yet come upon.
拉斯卡一直在哀怨地抱怨着，为自己受到的不公正待遇而烦恼，她径直飞向莱文熟悉的一个充满希望的地方，而克拉克还没有到达过。

‘Why don’t you stop her?’ shouted Stepan Arkadyevitch.
“你为什么不阻止她？”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇喊道。

‘She won’t scare them,’ answered Levin, sympathizing with his bitch’s pleasure and hurrying after her.
“她不会吓到他们的，”莱文回答道，他对他的母狗的快乐表示同情，并急忙追上她。

As she came nearer and nearer to the familiar breeding places there was more and more earnestness in Laska’s exploration. A little marsh bird did not divert her attention for more than an instant. She made one circuit round the clump of reeds, was beginning a second, and suddenly quivered with excitement and became motionless.
随着距离熟悉的繁殖地越来越近，拉斯卡的探索也越来越认真。一只沼泽小鸟一刻也没有转移她的注意力。她绕着芦苇丛转了一圈，正要开始一秒钟，突然激动得浑身发抖，一动不动。

‘Come, come, Stiva!’ shouted Levin, feeling his heart beginning to beat more violently; and all of a sudden, as though some sort of shutter had been drawn back from his straining ears, all sounds, confused but loud, began to beat on his hearing, losing all sense of distance. He heard the steps of Stepan Arkadyevitch, mistaking them for the tramp of the horses in the distance; he heard the brittle sound of the twigs on which he had trodden, taking this sound for the flying of a grouse. He heard too, not far behind him, a splashing in the water, which he could not explain to himself.
“来吧，来吧，斯蒂瓦！”莱文喊道，感觉自己的心脏开始跳得更猛烈了。突然间，仿佛有某种百叶窗从他紧张的耳朵里拉开了，所有混乱而响亮的声音开始敲击他的耳朵，失去了所有的距离感。他听到了斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇的脚步声，误以为是远处马匹的蹄声。他听到自己踩过的树枝发出脆脆的声音，以为这是松鸡飞翔的声音。他还听到身后不远处传来水花溅起的声音，但他自己却无法解释。

Picking his steps, he moved up to the dog.
他加快脚步，走到狗跟前。

‘Fetch it!’
“把它拿来！”

Not a grouse but a snipe flew up from beside the dog. Levin had lifted his gun, but at the very instant when he was taking aim, the sound of splashing grew louder, came closer, and was joined with the sound of Veslovsky’s voice, shouting something with strange loudness. Levin saw he had his gun pointed behind the snipe, but still he fired.
从狗旁边飞起来的不是松鸡，而是一只鹬。列文举起了枪，但就在他瞄准的瞬间，溅水的声音越来越大，越来越近，并与韦斯洛夫斯基的声音混合在一起，以奇怪的响度喊叫着什么。莱文看到他的枪指着狙击手的后面，但他还是开枪了。

When he had made sure he had missed, Levin looked round and saw the horses and the wagonette not on the road but in the marsh.
确定自己没打中之后，莱文环顾四周，发现马匹和马车不在路上，而是在沼泽地里。

Veslovsky, eager to see the shooting, had driven into the marsh, and got the horses stuck in the mud.
韦斯洛夫斯基急切地想要看到枪击事件，他把车开进了沼泽，结果马匹陷入了泥里。

‘Damn the fellow!’ Levin said to himself, as he went back to the carriage that had sunk in the mire. ‘What did you drive in for?’ he said to him dryly, and calling the coachman, he began pulling the horses out.
“该死的家伙！”列文一边自言自语，一边回到陷入泥沼的马车。 “你开车进来做什么？”他干巴巴地对他说，然后叫了车夫，开始把马匹拉出来。

Levin was vexed both at being hindered from shooting and at his horses getting stuck in the mud, and still more at the fact that neither Stepan Arkadyevitch nor Veslovsky helped him and the coachman to unharness the horses and get them out, since neither of them had the slightest notion of harnessing. Without vouchsafing a syllable in reply to Vassenka’s protestations that it had been quite dry there, Levin worked in silence with the coachman at extricating the horses. But then, as he got warm at the work and saw how assiduously Veslovsky was tugging at the wagonette by one of the mud-guards, so that he broke it indeed, Levin blamed himself for having under the influence of yesterday’s feelings been too cold to Veslovsky, and tried to be particularly genial so as to smooth over his chilliness. When everything had been put right, and the carriage had been brought back to the road, Levin had the lunch served.
列文既因为射击受到阻碍，又因为他的马陷入泥里而感到烦恼，更重要的是，斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇和韦斯洛夫斯基都没有帮助他和车夫解开马具并把它们救出来，因为他们都没有一点点利用的想法。瓦森卡声称那里非常干燥，莱文没有给出一个音节的回应，而是默默地和车夫一起把马匹救出来。但后来，当他干起活儿来了，看到韦斯洛夫斯基正被一名挡泥板用力地拉着马车，结果他确实把马车弄坏了，列文责怪自己在昨天的感情影响下，太冷了，无法忍受。维斯洛夫斯基，并试图表现得特别和蔼可亲，以平息他的冷漠。当一切都安排妥当，马车又回到路上时，莱文就让人准备午餐了。

‘Bon appetit—bonne conscience! Ce poulet va tomber jusqu’au fond de mes bottes,’ Vassenka, who had recovered his spirits, quoted the French saying as he finished his second chicken. ‘Well, now our troubles are over, now everything’s going to go well. Only, to atone for my sins, I’m bound to sit on the box. That’s so? eh? No, no! I’ll be your Automedon. You shall see how I’ll get you along,’ he answered, not letting go the rein, when Levin begged him to let the coachman drive. ‘No, I must atone for my sins, and I’m very comfortable on the box.’ And he drove.
‘祝你胃口好，良心好！恢复了精神的瓦森卡在吃完第二只鸡时引用了这句法国谚语。 ‘好吧，现在我们的麻烦已经过去了，现在一切都会顺利。只是，为了赎罪，我必须坐在箱子上。是这样吗？嗯？不，不！我会成为你的奥托墨冬。你会看到我会如何带你走，”当莱文恳求他让车夫开车时，他回答道，没有松开缰绳。 “不，我必须赎罪，而且我在箱子里很舒服。”然后他开车了。

Levin was a little afraid he would exhaust the horses, especially the chestnut, whom he did not know how to hold in; but unconsciously he fell under the influence of his gaiety and listened to the songs he sang all the way on the box, or the descriptions and representations he gave of driving in the English fashion, four-in-hand; and it was in the very best of spirits that after lunch they drove to the Gvozdyov marsh.
列文有点担心他会让马筋疲力尽，尤其是栗子，他不知道如何控制住它们。但不知不觉中，他受到了他的快乐的影响，听着他在包厢里一路唱的歌曲，或者他对英国时尚四人手驾驶的描述和描述；午饭后，他们兴高采烈地驱车前往格沃兹迪奥夫沼泽。

Chapter 10
第10章

Vassenka drove the horses so smartly that they reached the marsh too early, while it was still hot.
瓦森卡驾驭马匹的技巧非常娴熟，以至于他们很早就到达了沼泽地，当时天气还很热。

As they drew near this more important marsh, the chief aim of their expedition, Levin could not help considering how he could get rid of Vassenka and be free in his movements. Stepan Arkadyevitch evidently had the same desire, and on his face Levin saw the look of anxiety always present in a true sportsman when beginning shooting, together with a certain good-humored slyness peculiar to him.
当他们接近这片更重要的沼泽时，这是他们探险的主要目标，莱文忍不住考虑如何摆脱瓦森卡并自由活动。斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇显然也有同样的愿望，列文在他的脸上看到了真正的运动员在开始射击时总是表现出的焦虑表情，以及他特有的某种幽默的狡猾。

‘How shall we go? It’s a splendid marsh, I see, and there are hawks,’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch, pointing to two great birds hovering over the reeds. ‘Where there are hawks, there is sure to be game.’
‘我们怎么走？我看，这是一片美丽的沼泽，而且还有鹰。”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇指着芦苇上空盘旋的两只大鸟说道。 “哪里有鹰，哪里就有猎物。”

‘Now, gentlemen,’ said Levin, pulling up his boots and examining the lock of his gun with rather a gloomy expression, ‘do you see those reeds?’ He pointed to an oasis of blackish green in the huge half-mown wet meadow that stretched along the right bank of the river. ‘The marsh begins here, straight in front of us, do you see—where it is greener? From here it runs to the right where the horses are; there are breeding places there, and grouse, and all round those reeds as far as that alder, and right up to the mill. Over there, do you see, where the pools are? That’s the best place. There I once shot seventeen snipe. We’ll separate with the dogs and go in different directions, and then meet over there at the mill.’
“现在，先生们，”莱文一边说，一边拉起靴子，神情阴郁地检查着枪的锁，“你们看到那些芦苇了吗？”他指着半割过的湿草地上的一片墨绿色绿洲。沿着河的右岸延伸。 “沼泽从这里开始，就在我们面前，你看到了吗——哪里更绿？从这里开始，它跑到马所在的右边；那里有松鸡的繁殖地，周围都是芦苇，一直到那棵桤木，一直到磨坊。那边，你看到泳池在哪里了吗？那是最好的地方。我曾在那里射过十七只鹬。我们会和狗分开，朝不同的方向走，然后在磨坊那边见面。”

‘Well, which shall go to left and which to right?’ asked Stepan Arkadyevitch. ‘It’s wider to the right; you two go that way and I’ll take the left,’ he said with apparent carelessness.
“那么，哪个应该向左，哪个应该向右？”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇问道。 “右边更宽；你们两个走那条路，我走左边。”他明显漫不经心地说。

‘Capital! we’ll make the bigger bag! Yes, come along, come along!’ Vassenka exclaimed.
'首都！我们会做更大的包！是的，来吧，来吧！”瓦森卡喊道。

Levin could do nothing but agree, and they divided.
莱文只能同意，于是他们分开了。

As soon as they entered the marsh, the two dogs began hunting about together and made towards the green, slime-covered pool. Levin knew Laska’s method, wary and indefinite; he knew the place too and expected a whole covey of snipe.
一进入沼泽地，两只狗就开始一起狩猎，并向着绿色的、粘满粘液的水池走去。莱文了解拉斯卡的方法，谨慎而不确定。他也熟悉这个地方，预计会有一大群鹬。

‘Veslovsky, beside me, walk beside me!’ he said in a faint voice to his companion splashing in the water behind him. Levin could not help feeling an interest in the direction his gun was pointed, after that casual shot near the Kolpensky marsh.
“韦斯洛夫斯基，在我身边，走在我身边！”他用微弱的声音对身后在水中嬉戏的同伴说道。在科尔彭斯基沼泽附近那次随意的射击之后，莱文忍不住对他的枪所指的方向产生了兴趣。

‘Oh, I won’t get in your way, don’t trouble about me.’
“哦，我不会妨碍你的，别为我烦恼。”

But Levin could not help troubling, and recalled Kitty’s words at parting: ‘Mind you don’t shoot one another.’ The dogs came nearer and nearer, passed each other, each pursuing its own scent. The expectation of snipe was so intense that to Levin the squelching sound of his own heel, as he drew it up out of the mire, seemed to be the call of a snipe, and he clutched and pressed the lock of his gun.
但莱文忍不住感到不安，并想起基蒂临别时说的话：“注意，不要互相开枪。”狗越来越近，互相擦肩而过，每只狗都在追逐自己的气味。莱文对鹬的期待是如此强烈，以至于当他把脚后跟从泥沼中拔出来时，他自己的脚后跟发出的嘎吱声似乎是鹬的叫声，他抓住并按下了枪的锁。

‘Bang! bang!’ sounded almost in his ear. Vassenka had fired at a flock of ducks which was hovering over the marsh and flying at that moment towards the sportsmen, far out of range. Before Levin had time to look round, there was the whir of one snipe, another, a third, and some eight more rose one after another.
'砰！砰！”的声音几乎就在他耳边响起。瓦森卡向一群鸭子开枪，鸭子在沼泽上空盘旋，当时它们飞向运动员，远远超出了射程。莱文还没来得及环顾四周，就听见一只鹬的呼呼声，一只，一只，第三只，还有大约八只鹬接连升起。

Stepan Arkadyevitch hit one at the very moment when it was beginning its zigzag movements, and the snipe fell in a heap into the mud. Oblonsky aimed deliberately at another, still flying low in the reeds, and together with the report of the shot, that snipe too fell, and it could be seen fluttering out where the sedge had been cut, its unhurt wing showing white beneath.
斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇在一只鹬开始锯齿形移动的那一刻击中了它，鹬就成一堆地掉进了泥里。奥布朗斯基故意瞄准了另一只，仍在芦苇丛中低飞，随着射击的报告，那只鹬也落了下来，可以看到它在莎草被砍断的地方振翅飞翔，它未受伤的翅膀下面露出白色。

Levin was not so lucky: he aimed at his first bird too low, and missed; he aimed at it again, just as it was rising, but at that instant another snipe flew up at his very feet, distracting him so that he missed again.
莱文就没那么幸运了：他瞄准第一只鸟的位置太低，结果没有命中。正当它升起的时候，他又瞄准了它，但就在这时，另一只鹬飞到了他的脚边，分散了他的注意力，结果又失手了。

While they were loading their guns, another snipe rose, and Veslovsky, who had had time to load again, sent two charges of small-shot into the water. Stepan Arkadyevitch picked up his snipe, and with sparkling eyes looked at Levin.
当他们正在装弹时，另一支狙击枪升起，有时间再次装弹的韦斯洛夫斯基向水中发射了两枚小弹。斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇拿起狙击枪，用闪闪发光的眼睛看着列文。

‘Well, now let us separate,’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch, and limping on his left foot, holding his gun in readiness and whistling to his dog, he walked off in one direction. Levin and Veslovsky walked in the other.
“好吧，现在我们分开吧，”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇说，他一瘸一拐地迈出左脚，握着枪，向他的狗吹了一声口哨，朝一个方向走去。莱文和韦斯洛夫斯基走在另一边。

It always happened with Levin that when his first shots were a failure he got hot and out of temper, and shot badly the whole day. So it was that day. The snipe showed themselves in numbers. They kept flying up from just under the dogs, from under the sportsmen’s legs, and Levin might have retrieved his ill luck. But the more he shot, the more he felt disgraced in the eyes of Veslovsky, who kept popping away merrily and indiscriminately, killing nothing, and not in the slightest abashed by his ill success. Levin, in feverish haste, could not restrain himself, got more and more out of temper, and ended by shooting almost without a hope of hitting. Laska, indeed, seemed to understand this. She began looking more languidly, and gazed back at the sportsmen, as it were, with perplexity or reproach in her eyes. Shots followed shots in rapid succession. The smoke of the powder hung about the sportsmen, while in the great roomy net of the game bag there were only three light little snipe. And of these one had been killed by Veslovsky alone, and one by both of them together. Meanwhile from the other side of the marsh came the sound of Stepan Arkadyevitch’s shots, not frequent, but, as Levin fancied, well-directed, for almost after each they heard ‘Krak, Krak, apporte!’
莱文总是会遇到这样的情况：当他的第一次投篮失败时，他就会变得脾气暴躁，一整天的投篮都很糟糕。所以就是那一天。鹬数量众多。它们不断地从狗的下面、运动员的腿下飞起来，莱文可能又恢复了他的厄运。但他射得越多，他在韦斯洛夫斯基眼中就越感到丢脸，韦斯洛夫斯基不停地快乐地、不分青红皂白地走开，没有杀死任何人，而且丝毫没有因为他的失败而感到羞愧。莱文在狂热的匆忙中无法克制自己，脾气越来越暴躁，最后开枪，几乎没有击中的希望。拉斯卡似乎确实明白这一点。她的眼神开始变得更加慵懒，回望着运动员们，眼中似乎带着困惑或责备。枪声接连不断。火药的烟雾缭绕在运动员们的周围，而在游戏包那张宽大的网里，只有三只轻薄的小鹬。其中一人是韦斯洛夫斯基一人杀死的，另一人是他们两人一起杀死的。与此同时，沼泽的另一边传来了斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇的枪声，枪声并不频繁，但正如列文想象的那样，方向良好，因为几乎每次射击后，他们都听到“克拉克，克拉克，开枪！”

This excited Levin still more. The snipe were floating continually in the air over the reeds. Their whirring wings close to the earth, and their harsh cries high in the air, could be heard on all sides; the snipe that had risen first and flown up into the air, settled again before the sportsmen. Instead of two hawks there were now dozens of them hovering with shrill cries over the marsh.
这让莱文更加兴奋了。鹬在芦苇丛上空不断地飘浮。它们的翅膀贴近地面，呼呼作响，高空发出刺耳的叫声，四面八方都能听到。最先起身飞向空中的鹬，又停在了运动员面前。现在不再是两只鹰，而是数十只鹰在沼泽上空盘旋，发出尖锐的叫声。

After walking through the larger half of the marsh, Levin and Veslovsky reached the place where the peasants’ mowing-grass was divided into long strips reaching to the reeds, marked off in one place by the trampled grass, in another by a path mown through it. Half of these strips had already been mown.
穿过大半个沼泽地后，莱文和韦斯洛夫斯基到达了一个地方，农民割草的地方被分成长条状，一直延伸到芦苇，一处被践踏的草划定了界限，另一处则被一条穿过的小路划定了界限。它。这些条带的一半已经被割掉了。

Though there was not so much hope of finding birds in the uncut part as the cut part, Levin had promised Stepan Arkadyevitch to meet him, and so he walked on with his companion through the cut and uncut patches.
虽然在未砍伐的部分中找到鸟儿的希望不如在砍伐的部分那么大，列文已经答应斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇会见他，所以他和他的同伴一起穿过砍伐和未砍伐的地方。

‘Hi, sportsmen!’ shouted one of a group of peasants, sitting on an unharnessed cart; ‘come and have some lunch with us! Have a drop of wine!’
“嗨，运动员们！”一群农民中的一个坐在一辆没有挽具的马车上喊道。 ‘来和我们一起吃午饭吧！喝一滴酒吧！

Levin looked round.
莱文环顾四周。

‘Come along, it’s all right!’ shouted a good-humored-looking bearded peasant with a red face, showing his white teeth in a grin, and holding up a greenish bottle that flashed in the sunlight.
“走吧，没关系！”一个满脸胡须的农民，红着一张脸，露出洁白的牙齿，笑容满面，手里举着一个在阳光下闪闪发亮的绿色瓶子，喊道。

‘Qu’est-ce qu’ils disent?’ asked Veslovsky.
“有什么异议吗？”韦斯洛夫斯基问道。

‘They invite you to have some vodka. Most likely they’ve been dividing the meadow into lots. I should have some,’ said Levin, not without some guile, hoping Veslovsky would be tempted by the vodka, and would go away to them.
“他们邀请你喝点伏特加。他们很可能已经把草地分成了很多块。我应该喝一些，”列文不无狡猾地说，希望韦斯洛夫斯基会受到伏特加的诱惑，然后去他们那儿。

‘Why do they offer it?’
“他们为什么提供它？”

‘Oh, they’re merry-making. Really, you should join them. You would be interested.’
‘哦，他们正在寻欢作乐。真的，你应该加入他们。你会感兴趣的。

‘Allons, c’est curieux.’
“阿隆斯，这就是好东西。”

‘You go, you go, you’ll find the way to the mill!’ cried Levin, and looking round he perceived with satisfaction that Veslovsky, bent and stumbling with weariness, holding his gun out at arm’s length, was making his way out of the marsh towards the peasants.
“你走，你走，你会找到去磨坊的路的！”列文喊道，他环顾四周，满意地发现韦斯洛夫斯基疲惫不堪，弯着腰，跌跌撞撞，举着枪，与他保持一臂距离，正在走出去。沼泽地向农民倾斜。

‘You come too!’ the peasants shouted to Levin. ‘Never fear! You taste our cake!’
“你也来吧！”农民们对莱文喊道。 '从不畏惧！你尝尝我们的蛋糕吧！

Levin felt a strong inclination to drink a little vodka and to eat some bread. He was exhausted, and felt it a great effort to drag his staggering legs out of the mire, and for a minute he hesitated. But Laska was setting. And immediately all his weariness vanished, and he walked lightly through the swamp towards the dog. A snipe flew up at his feet; he fired and killed it. Laska still pointed.—‘Fetch it!’ Another bird flew up close to the dog. Levin fired. But it was an unlucky day for him; he missed it, and when he went to look for the one he had shot, he could not find that either. He wandered all about the reeds, but Laska did not believe he had shot it, and when he sent her to find it, she pretended to hunt for it, but did not really. And in the absence of Vassenka, on whom Levin threw the blame of his failure, things went no better. There were plenty of snipe still, but Levin made one miss after another.
莱文很想喝一点伏特加，吃点面包。他已经筋疲力尽了，觉得要把自己摇摇晃晃的双腿从泥沼中拖出来是费了很大的力气，他犹豫了一会儿。但拉斯卡正在设定。顿时，他所有的疲倦都消失了，他轻快地穿过沼泽，朝狗走去。一只鹬飞到他脚边。他开枪杀死了它。拉斯卡仍然指着。——“把它拿来！”另一只鸟飞到狗附近。莱文开枪了。但这对他来说是不幸的一天。他错过了，当他去找他射中的那个时，他也找不到。他在芦苇丛中徘徊，但拉斯卡不相信他射中了它，当他派她去找它时，她假装在寻找它，但实际上并没有。在瓦森卡缺席的情况下，列文将自己的失败归咎于瓦森卡，事情并没有好转。仍然有很多狙击，但莱文一次又一次地错过了。

The slanting rays of the sun were still hot; his clothes, soaked through with perspiration, stuck to his body; his left boot full of water weighed heavily on his leg and squeaked at every step; the sweat ran in drops down his powder-grimed face, his mouth was full of the bitter taste, his nose of the smell of powder and stagnant water, his ears were ringing with the incessant whir of the snipe; he could not touch the stock of his gun, it was so hot; his heart beat with short, rapid throbs; his hands shook with excitement, and his weary legs stumbled and staggered over the hillocks and in the swamp, but still he walked on and still he shot. At last, after a disgraceful miss, he flung his gun and his hat on the ground.
斜射的阳光仍然很热；衣服被汗水浸透，粘在身上。他的左脚靴子里装满了水，沉重地压在他的腿上，每走一步都吱吱作响。汗水从沾满粉末的脸上淌下来，嘴里充满了苦涩的味道，鼻子里充满了粉末和死水的味道，耳朵里嗡嗡地响着鹬的叫声。他无法触摸枪托，因为枪托太热了。他的心跳得短促而急促。他的双手激动得发抖，疲惫的双腿在山岗和沼泽中跌跌撞撞地走着，但他仍然继续前行，仍然开枪射击。最后，在一次可耻的失误之后，他把枪和帽子扔到了地上。

‘No, I must control myself,’ he said to himself. Picking up his gun and his hat, he called Laska, and went out of the swamp. When he got on to dry ground he sat down, pulled off his boot and emptied it, then walked to the marsh, drank some stagnant-tasting water, moistened his burning hot gun, and washed his face and hands. Feeling refreshed, he went back to the spot where a snipe had settled, firmly resolved to keep cool.
“不，我必须控制自己，”他对自己说。他拿起枪和帽子，呼唤拉斯卡，走出了沼泽。当他走到干燥的地面上时，他坐下来，脱下靴子，把里面的水倒掉，然后走到沼泽地，喝了一些死水，润湿了烧热的枪，洗了脸和手。他感到神清气爽，又回到了鹬鸟栖息的地方，决心保持冷静。

He tried to be calm, but it was the same again. His finger pressed the cock before he had taken a good aim at the bird. It got worse and worse.
他试图保持冷静，但还是一样。在他瞄准那只鸟之前，他的手指压住了鸡鸡。情况变得越来越糟。

He had only five birds in his game-bag when he walked out of the marsh towards the alders where he was to rejoin Stepan Arkadyevitch.
当他走出沼泽，走向桤木丛时，他的猎物袋里只有五只鸟，他要在那里与斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇会合。

Before he caught sight of Stepan Arkadyevitch he saw his dog. Krak darted out from behind the twisted root of an alder, black all over with the stinking mire of the marsh, and with the air of a conqueror sniffed at Laska. Behind Krak there came into view in the shade of the alder tree the shapely figure of Stepan Arkadyevitch. He came to meet him, red and perspiring, with unbuttoned neckband, still limping in the same way.
在他看到斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇之前，他看到了他的狗。克拉克从一棵桤木扭曲的树根后面冲了出来，浑身漆黑，沾满了沼泽的恶臭泥沼，带着征服者的气息嗅着拉斯卡。克拉克身后的桤木树荫下，斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇的优美身影映入眼帘。他来迎接他，脸色通红，大汗淋漓，领口的扣子没有扣上，仍然一瘸一拐地走着。

‘Well? You have been popping away!’ he said, smiling good-humoredly.
'出色地？你一直在走开！”他幽默地微笑着说道。

‘How have you got on?’ queried Levin. But there was no need to ask, for he had already seen the full game bag.
“你过得怎么样？”莱文问道。不过也没必要问，因为他已经看过完整的游戏包了。

‘Oh, pretty fair.’
“哦，很公平。”

He had fourteen birds.
他有十四只鸟。

‘A splendid marsh! I’ve no doubt Veslovsky got in your way. It’s awkward too, shooting with one dog,’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch, to soften his triumph.
‘一片美丽的沼泽！我毫不怀疑韦斯洛夫斯基妨碍了你。用一只狗射击也很尴尬，”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季维奇说道，以缓和他的胜利。

Chapter 11
第11章

When Levin and Stepan Arkadyevitch reached the peasant’s hut where Levin always used to stay, Veslovsky was already there. He was sitting in the middle of the hut, clinging with both hands to the bench from which he was being pulled by a soldier, the brother of the peasant’s wife, who was helping him off with his miry boots. Veslovsky was laughing his infectious, good-humored laugh.
当列文和斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇到达列文常住的农民小屋时，维斯洛夫斯基已经在那里了。他坐在小屋中间，双手紧紧抓住长凳，一名士兵将他从长凳上拉了出来，这名士兵是农民妻子的兄弟，正在帮他脱掉沾满泥浆的靴子。维斯洛夫斯基笑得很有感染力，幽默感十足。

‘I’ve only just come. Ils ont ete charmants. Just fancy, they gave me drink, fed me! Such bread, it was exquisite! Delicieux! And the vodka, I never tasted any better. And they would not take a penny for anything. And they kept saying: ‘Excuse our homely ways.’’
‘我才刚刚来。 Ils ont ete charmants。只是想象一下，他们给我喝的，给我吃的！这样的面包，真是太棒了！美味极了！还有伏特加，我从来没有尝过更好的味道。他们不会为了任何事情而收一分钱。他们一直说：“请原谅我们的朴素生活方式。”

‘What should they take anything for? They were entertaining you, to be sure. Do you suppose they keep vodka for sale?’ said the soldier, succeeding at last in pulling the soaked boot off the blackened stocking.
‘他们拿什么东西来做什么？可以肯定的是，他们是在逗你开心。你认为他们会出售伏特加吗？”士兵说道，最后成功地将湿透的靴子从发黑的长袜上拉了下来。

In spite of the dirtiness of the hut, which was all muddied by their boots and the filthy dogs licking themselves clean, and the smell of marsh mud and powder that filled the room, and the absence of knives and forks, the party drank their tea and ate their supper with a relish only known to sportsmen. Washed and clean, they went into a hay-barn swept ready for them, where the coachman had been making up beds for the gentlemen.
尽管小屋很脏，靴子沾满了泥，肮脏的狗把自己舔干净，房间里充满了沼泽泥土和粉末的气味，而且没有刀叉，但一行人还是喝了茶。他们以只有运动员才知道的津津有味地吃晚饭。他们洗漱干净后，走进一个为他们打扫干净的干草仓，马车夫正在那里为先生们铺床。

Though it was dusk, not one of them wanted to go to sleep.
虽然已是黄昏，但他们谁也不想睡觉。

After wavering among reminiscences and anecdotes of guns, of dogs, and of former shooting parties, the conversation rested on a topic that interested all of them. After Vassenka had several times over expressed his appreciation of this delightful sleeping place among the fragrant hay, this delightful broken cart (he supposed it to be broken because the shafts had been taken out), of the good nature of the peasants that had treated him to vodka, of the dogs who lay at the feet of their respective masters, Oblonsky began telling them of a delightful shooting party at Malthus’s, where he had stayed the previous summer.
在枪支、狗和以前的射击队的回忆和轶事中犹豫不决后，谈话转向了一个他们都感兴趣的话题。瓦森卡多次表达了他对这个在芳香干草中令人愉快的睡眠场所、这辆令人愉快的破车（他认为它是坏的，因为车轴已被取出）、对对待他的农民的善良本性的赞赏。喝着伏特加，奥布朗斯基开始向它们讲述在各自主人脚下的狗们在马尔萨斯家举办的一场令人愉快的射击聚会，去年夏天他曾在那里住过。

Malthus was a well-known capitalist, who had made his money by speculation in railway shares. Stepan Arkadyevitch described what grouse moors this Malthus had bought in the Tver province, and how they were preserved, and of the carriages and dogcarts in which the shooting party had been driven, and the luncheon pavilion that had been rigged up at the marsh.
马尔萨斯是一位著名的资本家，他通过投机铁路股票发了财。斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇描述了马尔萨斯在特维尔省购买的松鸡停泊地，以及它们是如何保存的，以及驾驶射击队的马车和狗车，以及在沼泽地搭建的午餐亭。

‘I don’t understand you,’ said Levin, sitting up in the hay; ‘how is it such people don’t disgust you? I can understand a lunch with Lafitte is all very pleasant, but don’t you dislike just that very sumptuousness? All these people, just like our spirit monopolists in old days, get their money in a way that gains them the contempt of everyone. They don’t care for their contempt, and then they use their dishonest gains to buy off the contempt they have deserved.’
“我不明白你的意思，”列文在干草堆上坐起来说道。 ‘这样的人怎么不令你厌恶呢？我可以理解和拉菲特共进午餐是非常愉快的，但是你不喜欢这种奢侈吗？所有这些人，就像我们过去的精神垄断者一样，以一种让所有人鄙视的方式来获取他们的钱。他们不在乎自己受到的蔑视，然后他们用不诚实的收益来收买他们应得的蔑视。

‘Perfectly true!’ chimed in Vassenka Veslovsky. ‘Perfectly! Oblonsky, of course, goes out of bonhomie, but other people say: ‘Well, Oblonsky stays with them.’...’
“完全正确！”瓦森卡·韦斯洛夫斯基附和道。 '完美！当然，奥布朗斯基出于友善而离开，但其他人说：“好吧，奥布朗斯基和他们在一起。”……”

‘Not a bit of it.’ Levin could hear that Oblonsky was smiling as he spoke. ‘I simply don’t consider him more dishonest than any other wealthy merchant or nobleman. They’ve all made their money alike—by their work and their intelligence.’
“一点也没有。”莱文听得出奥布朗斯基说话时微笑着。 “我只是不认为他比任何其他富商或贵族更不诚实。他们都通过自己的工作和智慧赚到了钱。”

‘Oh, by what work? Do you call it work to get hold of concessions and speculate with them?’
‘噢，靠什么工作？你认为获得让步并与他们进行投机是工作吗？

‘Of course it’s work. Work in this sense, that if it were not for him and others like him, there would have been no railways.’
‘当然是工作。从这个意义上说，如果没有他和像他这样的人，就不会有铁路。

‘But that’s not work, like the work of a peasant or a learned profession.’
“但这不是工作，不像农民的工作或有学问的职业。”

‘Granted, but it’s work in the sense that his activity produces a result—the railways. But of course you think the railways useless.’
“当然，但从某种意义上说，这是工作，因为他的活动产生了结果——铁路。”但你当然认为铁路毫无用处。

‘No, that’s another question; I am prepared to admit that they’re useful. But all profit that is out of proportion to the labor expended is dishonest.’
“不，那是另一个问题；”我准备承认它们很有用。但所有与所付出的劳动不成比例的利润都是不诚实的。”

‘But who is to define what is proportionate?’
“但是谁来定义什么是相称的呢？”

‘Making profit by dishonest means, by trickery,’ said Levin, conscious that he could not draw a distinct line between honesty and dishonesty. ‘Such as banking, for instance,’ he went on. ‘It’s an evil—the amassing of huge fortunes without labor, just the same thing as with the spirit monopolies, it’s only the form that’s changed. Le roi est mort, vive le roi. No sooner were the spirit monopolies abolished than the railways came up, and banking companies; that, too, is profit without work.’
“通过不诚实的手段、通过欺骗来获取利润，”莱文说道，他意识到自己无法在诚实和不诚实之间划清界限。 “比如银行业，”他继续说道。 ‘这是一种罪恶，不劳而获的巨额财富，和精神垄断是一样的，只是形式改变了。国王已死，国王万岁。精神垄断一被废除，铁路和银行就出现了。这也是不劳而获的利润。”

‘Yes, that may all be very true and clever.... Lie down, Krak!’ Stepan Arkadyevitch called to his dog, who was scratching and turning over all the hay. He was obviously convinced of the correctness of his position, and so talked serenely and without haste. ‘But you have not drawn the line between honest and dishonest work. That I receive a bigger salary than my chief clerk, though he knows more about the work than I do—that’s dishonest, I suppose?’
“是的，这可能是非常真实和聪明的……躺下，克拉克！”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇对他的狗喊道，它正在抓挠并翻动所有的干草。他显然确信自己的立场是正确的，所以说话平静而不急躁。 “但你并没有区分诚实和不诚实的工作。我的薪水比首席文员高，尽管他对工作的了解比我多——我想这是不诚实的吧？

‘I can’t say.’
“我不能说。”

‘Well, but I can tell you: your receiving some five thousand, let’s say, for your work on the land, while our host, the peasant here, however hard he works, can never get more than fifty roubles, is just as dishonest as my earning more than my chief clerk, and Malthus getting more than a station-master. No, quite the contrary; I see that society takes up a sort of antagonistic attitude to these people, which is utterly baseless, and I fancy there’s envy at the bottom of it....’
“好吧，但我可以告诉你：比方说，你在土地上干活能得到大约五千卢布，而我们的主人，这里的农民，无论他多么努力工作，永远不会得到超过五十卢布的钱，这也是不诚实的。”因为我的收入比我的首席职员还要多，而马尔萨斯的收入比一个站长还要多。不，恰恰相反；我看到社会对这些人采取了一种敌对态度，这是毫无根据的，我想这背后隐藏着嫉妒……”

‘No, that’s unfair,’ said Veslovsky; ‘how could envy come in? There is something not nice about that sort of business.’
“不，这不公平，”韦斯洛夫斯基说。 ‘嫉妒怎么会进来呢？这类生意有一些不好的地方。

‘You say,’ Levin went on, ‘that it’s unjust for me to receive five thousand, while the peasant has fifty; that’s true. It is unfair, and I feel it, but...’
“你说，”列文继续说道，“我收五千块钱，而农民却收五十块钱，这是不公平的；这是真的。这是不公平的，我也感觉到了，但是……”

‘It really is. Why is it we spend our time riding, drinking, shooting, doing nothing, while they are forever at work?’ said Vassenka Veslovsky, obviously for the first time in his life reflecting on the question, and consequently considering it with perfect sincerity.
‘确实如此。为什么我们把时间花在骑马、喝酒、射击、无所事事上，而他们却永远在工作？”瓦森卡·韦斯洛夫斯基说道，这显然是他一生中第一次思考这个问题，并因此以完美的诚意考虑它。

‘Yes, you feel it, but you don’t give him your property,’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch, intentionally, as it seemed, provoking Levin.
“是的，你感觉到了，但你没有把你的财产交给他，”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇说道，他似乎是故意激怒列文的。

There had arisen of late something like a secret antagonism between the two brothers-in-law; as though, since they had married sisters, a kind of rivalry had sprung up between them as to which was ordering his life best, and now this hostility showed itself in the conversation, as it began to take a personal note.
最近，两个姐夫之间出现了某种秘密的对抗。就好像，自从他们有了已婚的姐妹，他们之间就出现了一种竞争，谁最能安排他的生活，现在这种敌意在谈话中显现出来，因为它开始带有个人色彩。

‘I don’t give it away, because no one demands that from me, and if I wanted to, I could not give it away,’ answered Levin, ‘and have no one to give it to.’
“我不会把它送给别人，因为没有人向我提出这样的要求，即使我愿意，我也不能把它送给别人，”列文回答道，“也没有人可以送给我。”

‘Give it to this peasant, he would not refuse it.’
“给这个农民吧，他不会拒绝的。”

‘Yes, but how am I to give it up? Am I to go to him and make a deed of conveyance?’
‘是的，但是我该如何放弃呢？我要去找他做一份财产转让契约吗？

‘I don’t know; but if you are convinced that you have no right...’
'我不知道;但如果你确信你没有权利……”

‘I’m not at all convinced. On the contrary, I feel I have no right to give it up, that I have duties both to the land and to my family.’
“我一点也不相信。相反，我觉得我没有权利放弃它，我对土地和我的家庭都有责任。”

‘No, excuse me, but if you consider this inequality is unjust, why is it you don’t act accordingly?...’
“不，对不起，但如果你认为这种不平等是不公正的，为什么你不采取相应的行动呢？……”

‘Well, I do act negatively on that idea, so far as not trying to increase the difference of position existing between him and me.’
“好吧，我确实对这个想法持消极态度，只要不试图扩大他和我之间存在的立场差异即可。”

‘No, excuse me, that’s a paradox.’
“不，对不起，这是一个悖论。”

‘Yes, there’s something of a sophistry about that,’ Veslovsky agreed. ‘Ah! our host; so you’re not asleep yet?’ he said to the peasant who came into the barn, opening the creaking door. ‘How is it you’re not asleep?’
“是的，这有点诡辩，”韦斯洛夫斯基表示同意。 '啊！我们的主人； “这么说你还没睡？”他打开嘎吱作响的门，对走进谷仓的农民说道。 “你怎么还没睡？”

‘No, how’s one to sleep! I thought our gentlemen would be asleep, but I heard them chattering. I want to get a hook from here. She won’t bite?’ he added, stepping cautiously with his bare feet.
‘不，怎么睡啊！我以为我们的先生们已经睡着了，但我听到他们在喋喋不休。我想从这里得到一个钩子。她不会咬人吗？”他补充道，光着脚小心翼翼地走着。

‘And where are you going to sleep?’
“那你要睡哪儿？”

‘We are going out for the night with the beasts.’
“我们要和野兽一起出去过夜。”

‘Ah, what a night!’ said Veslovsky, looking out at the edge of the hut and the unharnessed wagonette that could be seen in the faint light of the evening glow in the great frame of the open doors. ‘But listen, there are women’s voices singing, and, on my word, not badly too. Who’s that singing, my friend?’
“啊，多么美好的夜晚啊！”韦斯洛夫斯基一边说，一边望着小屋的边缘，在敞开的大门的大框里，在晚霞的微弱光芒下，可以看到那辆没有挽具的马车。 “但是听着，有女人的声音在唱歌，而且，据我所知，唱得也不错。”是谁在唱歌，我的朋友？

‘That’s the maids from hard by here.’
“那是这里的女仆。”

‘Let’s go, let’s have a walk! We shan’t go to sleep, you know. Oblonsky, come along!’
‘走吧，我们去散步吧！我们不会去睡觉，你知道的。奥布朗斯基，来吧！

‘If one could only do both, lie here and go,’ answered Oblonsky, stretching. ‘It’s capital lying here.’
“如果一个人能做到这两点，那就躺在这里然后走吧，”奥布朗斯基伸了个懒腰回答道。 “这里就是资本。”

‘Well, I shall go by myself,’ said Veslovsky, getting up eagerly, and putting on his shoes and stockings. ‘Good-bye, gentlemen. If it’s fun, I’ll fetch you. You’ve treated me to some good sport, and I won’t forget you.’
“好吧，我自己去吧，”韦斯洛夫斯基说，急切地站起来，穿上鞋子和袜子。再见，先生们。如果好玩的话我就去接你。你让我享受了一些很好的运动，我不会忘记你。

‘He really is a capital fellow, isn’t he?’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch, when Veslovsky had gone out and the peasant had closed the door after him.
“他真是个大人物，不是吗？”韦斯洛夫斯基出去后，农民关上了门，斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇说道。

‘Yes, capital,’ answered Levin, still thinking of the subject of their conversation just before. It seemed to him that he had clearly expressed his thoughts and feelings to the best of his capacity, and yet both of them, straightforward men and not fools, had said with one voice that he was comforting himself with sophistries. This disconcerted him.
“是的，资本。”莱文回答道，心里仍然想着他们刚才谈话的话题。在他看来，他已经尽其所能地清楚地表达了自己的想法和感受，而他们两个都是直人，不是傻子，却异口同声地说，他是在用诡辩来安慰自己。这让他感到不安。

‘It’s just this, my dear boy. One must do one of two things: either admit that the existing order of society is just, and then stick up for one’s rights in it; or acknowledge that you are enjoying unjust privileges, as I do, and then enjoy them and be satisfied.’
‘就是这样，我亲爱的孩子。一个人必须做两件事之一：要么承认现有的社会秩序是正义的，然后坚持自己在其中的权利；要么或者像我一样承认你正在享受不公正的特权，然后享受它们并感到满足。

‘No, if it were unjust, you could not enjoy these advantages and be satisfied—at least I could not. The great thing for me is to feel that I’m not to blame.’
‘不，如果不公平，你就无法享受这些优势并感到满足——至少我不能。对我来说最棒的事情就是感觉自己不应该受到责备。

‘What do you say, why not go after all?’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch, evidently weary of the strain of thought. ‘We shan’t go to sleep, you know. Come, let’s go!’
“你说呢，为什么不去呢？”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇说道，显然他已经厌倦了思绪的紧张。 “我们不会去睡觉，你知道的。来吧，我们走吧！

Levin did not answer. What they had said in the conversation, that he acted justly only in a negative sense, absorbed his thoughts. ‘Can it be that it’s only possible to be just negatively?’ he was asking himself.
莱文没有回答。他们在谈话中所说的，他的行为只是在消极意义上是正义的，这引起了他的思考。 “难道只能是消极的吗？”他问自己。

‘How strong the smell of the fresh hay is, though,’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch, getting up. ‘There’s not a chance of sleeping. Vassenka has been getting up some fun there. Do you hear the laughing and his voice? Hadn’t we better go? Come along!’
“不过，新鲜干草的气味多么浓烈啊，”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇站起来说道。 ‘没有机会睡觉。瓦森卡在那里玩得很开心。你听到他的笑声和声音了吗？我们不是最好走吗？一起来！'

‘No, I’m not coming,’ answered Levin.
“不，我不会来，”莱文回答道。

‘Surely that’s not a matter of principle too,’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch, smiling, as he felt about in the dark for his cap.
“当然，这也不是一个原则问题。”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇微笑着说道，同时在黑暗中摸索着帽子。

‘It’s not a matter of principle, but why should I go?’
“这不是原则问题，但我为什么要去呢？”

‘But do you know you are preparing trouble for yourself,’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch, finding his cap and getting up.
“但是你知道吗，你正在给自己找麻烦，”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇说着，找到了帽子，站了起来。

‘How so?’
'为何如此？'

‘Do you suppose I don’t see the line you’ve taken up with your wife? I heard how it’s a question of the greatest consequence, whether or not you’re to be away for a couple of days’ shooting. That’s all very well as an idyllic episode, but for your whole life that won’t answer. A man must be independent; he has his masculine interests. A man has to be manly,’ said Oblonsky, opening the door.
“你以为我没看到你和你妻子之间的台词吗？我听说这是一个关系重大的问题，无论你是否要离开几天进行拍摄。作为一个田园诗般的插曲，这一切都很好，但对于你的一生来说，这不会有答案。男人必须独立；他有他的男性兴趣。男人就得有男子气概，”奥布朗斯基一边说，一边打开门。

‘In what way? To go running after servant girls?’ said Levin.
‘以什么方式？去追女仆吗？”莱文说。

‘Why not, if it amuses him? Ca ne tire pas a consequence. It won’t do my wife any harm, and it’ll amuse me. The great thing is to respect the sanctity of the home. There should be nothing in the home. But don’t tie your own hands.’
‘如果这能让他开心的话，为什么不呢？可能会产生后果。这不会对我的妻子造成任何伤害，而且会让我觉得有趣。最重要的是尊重家庭的神圣性。家里应该什么都没有。但不要束缚自己的双手。”

‘Perhaps so,’ said Levin dryly, and he turned on his side. ‘Tomorrow, early, I want to go shooting, and I won’t wake anyone, and shall set off at daybreak.’
“也许是这样，”列文干巴巴地说，然后转过身去。 “明天一早，我要去打猎，我不会吵醒任何人，天一亮就出发。”

‘Messieurs, venez vite!’ they heard the voice of Veslovsky coming back. ‘Charmante! I’ve made such a discovery. Charmante! a perfect Gretchen, and I’ve already made friends with her. Really, exceedingly pretty,’ he declared in a tone of approval, as though she had been made pretty entirely on his account, and he was expressing his satisfaction with the entertainment that had been provided for him.
“先生们，venez vite！”他们听到韦斯洛夫斯基的声音回来了。 ‘查曼特！我有这样的发现。魅力！一个完美的格雷琴，我已经和她成了朋友。真的，非常漂亮。”他用赞许的语气宣称，就好像她完全是因为他而生的，他在表达他对为他提供的娱乐感到满意。

Levin pretended to be asleep, while Oblonsky, putting on his slippers, and lighting a cigar, walked out of the barn, and soon their voices were lost.
列文假装睡着了，奥布朗斯基则穿上拖鞋，点着雪茄，走出谷仓，很快他们的声音就消失了。

For a long while Levin could not get to sleep. He heard the horses munching hay, then he heard the peasant and his elder boy getting ready for the night, and going off for the night watch with the beasts, then he heard the soldier arranging his bed on the other side of the barn, with his nephew, the younger son of their peasant host. He heard the boy in his shrill little voice telling his uncle what he thought about the dogs, who seemed to him huge and terrible creatures, and asking what the dogs were going to hunt next day, and the soldier in a husky, sleepy voice, telling him the sportsmen were going in the morning to the marsh, and would shoot with their guns; and then, to check the boy’s questions, he said, ‘Go to sleep, Vaska; go to sleep, or you’ll catch it,’ and soon after he began snoring himself, and everything was still. He could only hear the snort of the horses, and the guttural cry of a snipe.
莱文很长一段时间都无法入睡。他听到马匹在嚼干草，然后他听到农民和他的大男孩准备过夜，和野兽一起去守夜，然后他听到士兵在谷仓的另一边整理他的床，他的侄子，他们农民主人的小儿子。他听到男孩用尖细的声音告诉叔叔他对狗的看法，在他看来，狗是巨大而可怕的生物，并询问狗第二天要捕猎什么，士兵用沙哑、睡眼惺忪的声音，告诉他运动员们早上要去沼泽地，并会用枪射击；然后，为了检查男孩的问题，他说：“去睡觉吧，瓦斯卡；”快去睡觉吧，不然你会感染它的。”不久之后，他自己也开始打鼾，一切都静止了。他只能听到马匹的鼻息声和鹬的喉鸣声。

‘Is it really only negative?’ he repeated to himself. ‘Well, what of it? It’s not my fault.’ And he began thinking about the next day.
“这真的只是消极的吗？”他对自己重复道。 ‘嗯，那又怎么样？这不是我的错。”然后他开始思考第二天的事情。

‘Tomorrow I’ll go out early, and I’ll make a point of keeping cool. There are lots of snipe; and there are grouse too. When I come back there’ll be the note from Kitty. Yes, Stiva may be right, I’m not manly with her, I’m tied to her apron-strings.... Well, it can’t be helped! Negative again....’
“明天我会早点出去，我会注意保持冷静。有很多鹬；还有松鸡。当我回来时，就会收到凯蒂的便条。是的，斯蒂瓦也许是对的，我对她没有男子气概，我被她的围裙带绑住了……好吧，这也是没办法的事！又是阴性……”

Half asleep, he heard the laughter and mirthful talk of Veslovsky and Stepan Arkadyevitch. For an instant he opened his eyes: the moon was up, and in the open doorway, brightly lighted up by the moonlight, they were standing talking. Stepan Arkadyevitch was saying something of the freshness of one girl, comparing her to a freshly peeled nut, and Veslovsky with his infectious laugh was repeating some words, probably said to him by a peasant: ‘Ah, you do your best to get round her!’ Levin, half asleep, said:
半梦半醒间，他听到韦斯洛夫斯基和斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇的笑声和愉快的谈话。刹那间，他睁开了眼睛：月亮升起来了，在敞开的门口，月光照亮了他们，他们正站着说话。斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇正在谈论一个女孩的新鲜感，把她比作一颗刚剥过皮的坚果，维斯洛夫斯基带着富有感染力的笑声重复着一些话，可能是一个农民对他说的：“啊，你尽力绕过她莱文半梦半醒地说：

‘Gentlemen, tomorrow before daylight!’ and fell asleep.
“先生们，明天天亮之前！”然后就睡着了。

Chapter 12
第12章

Waking up at earliest dawn, Levin tried to wake his companions. Vassenka, lying on his stomach, with one leg in a stocking thrust out, was sleeping so soundly that he could elicit no response. Oblonsky, half asleep, declined to get up so early. Even Laska, who was asleep, curled up in the hay, got up unwillingly, and lazily stretched out and straightened her hind legs one after the other. Getting on his boots and stockings, taking his gun, and carefully opening the creaking door of the barn, Levin went out into the road. The coachmen were sleeping in their carriages, the horses were dozing. Only one was lazily eating oats, dipping its nose into the manger. It was still gray out-of-doors.
黎明时分，莱文就醒来了，他试图叫醒他的同伴。瓦森卡趴在地上，一只穿着长袜的腿伸出来，睡得很熟，他无法引起任何反应。奥布朗斯基半睡半醒，拒绝这么早起床。就连睡着了的拉斯卡，也蜷缩在干草里，不情愿地起身，懒洋洋地伸了个懒腰，一条条后腿伸直。列文穿上靴子和袜子，拿起枪，小心地打开谷仓嘎吱作响的门，走到路上。马车夫在马车上睡觉，马儿也在打瞌睡。只有一只正在懒洋洋地吃燕麦，把鼻子伸进马槽里。室外还是灰蒙蒙的。

‘Why are you up so early, my dear?’ the old woman, their hostess, said, coming out of the hut and addressing him affectionately as an old friend.
“亲爱的，你为什么起这么早？”他们的女主人老妇人从小屋里走出来，像老朋友一样亲切地称呼他。

‘Going shooting, granny. Do I go this way to the marsh?’
“去射击了，奶奶。”我要走这条路去沼泽吗？

‘Straight out at the back; by our threshing floor, my dear, and hemp patches; there’s a little footpath.’ Stepping carefully with her sunburnt, bare feet, the old woman conducted Levin, and moved back the fence for him by the threshing floor.
“直接在后面；亲爱的，在我们的打谷场和麻地边；老妇人赤着晒黑的脚，小心翼翼地走着，领着莱文，替他移开了打谷场旁的栅栏。

‘Straight on and you’ll come to the marsh. Our lads drove the cattle there yesterday evening.’
“一直走，你就会来到沼泽地。”昨天晚上我们的小伙子们把牛赶到了那里。

Laska ran eagerly forward along the little path. Levin followed her with a light, rapid step, continually looking at the sky. He hoped the sun would not be up before he reached the marsh. But the sun did not delay. The moon, which had been bright when he went out, by now shone only like a crescent of quicksilver. The pink flush of dawn, which one could not help seeing before, now had to be sought to be discerned at all. What were before undefined, vague blurs in the distant countryside could now be distinctly seen. They were sheaves of rye. The dew, not visible till the sun was up, wetted Levin’s legs and his blouse above his belt in the high growing, fragrant hemp patch, from which the pollen had already fallen out. In the transparent stillness of morning the smallest sounds were audible. A bee flew by Levin’s ear with the whizzing sound of a bullet. He looked carefully, and saw a second and a third. They were all flying from the beehives behind the hedge, and they disappeared over the hemp patch in the direction of the marsh. The path led straight to the marsh. The marsh could be recognized by the mist which rose from it, thicker in one place and thinner in another, so that the reeds and willow bushes swayed like islands in this mist. At the edge of the marsh and the road, peasant boys and men, who had been herding for the night, were lying, and in the dawn all were asleep under their coats. Not far from them were three hobbled horses. One of them clanked a chain. Laska walked beside her master, pressing a little forward and looking round. Passing the sleeping peasants and reaching the first reeds, Levin examined his pistols and let his dog off. One of the horses, a sleek, dark-brown three-year-old, seeing the dog, started away, switched its tail and snorted. The other horses too were frightened, and splashing through the water with their hobbled legs, and drawing their hoofs out of the thick mud with a squelching sound, they bounded out of the marsh. Laska stopped, looking ironically at the horses and inquiringly at Levin. Levin patted Laska, and whistled as a sign that she might begin.
拉斯卡沿着小路急切地向前跑。莱文迈着轻快的步伐跟在她身后，不断地看着天空。他希望在到达沼泽之前太阳还没有升起。但太阳并没有耽搁。他出去时月亮还很明亮，现在只剩下月牙般的水银了。黎明的粉红色红晕，以前人们无法不看到，现在却必须努力才能辨别出来。远处乡村之前模糊不清的东西现在可以清晰地看到。它们是一捆黑麦。直到太阳升起之前，露水才显现出来，在高高生长、芳香四溢的麻地里，沾湿了莱文的双腿和腰带上方的衬衫，花粉已经从麻地里掉下来了。在早晨透明的寂静中，最微小的声音都听得见。一只蜜蜂伴随着子弹的呼啸声从莱文耳边飞过。他仔细一看，看到了第二个、第三个。它们都是从树篱后面的蜂箱里飞出来的，消失在麻地上方，向着沼泽地的方向消失了。这条小路直通沼泽地。沼泽地里升起的雾气，一处浓，一处稀，芦苇柳树在这雾气中摇曳得像一座座岛屿。沼泽和道路的边缘，躺着过夜的农家男孩和男人，黎明时分，所有人都在外套下睡着了。离他们不远的是三匹跛着的马。其中一人敲响了一根链条。拉斯卡走在她主人身边，稍微向前倾，环顾四周。穿过熟睡的农民，到达第一片芦苇丛，莱文检查了他的手枪，然后放走了他的狗。其中一匹马是一匹光滑的、深棕色的三岁马，看到那只狗，惊慌失措地跑开，摇动尾巴，喷着鼻息。 其他的马也都吓坏了，跛着腿踩着水，蹄子从厚厚的泥浆里拔出来，发出“吱吱”的声音，跳出了沼泽。拉斯卡停了下来，讽刺地看着马匹，询问地看着莱文。莱文拍了拍拉斯卡，吹了声口哨示意她可以开始了。

Laska ran joyfully and anxiously through the slush that swayed under her.
拉斯卡在脚下晃动的泥浆中快乐而又焦急地奔跑着。

Running into the marsh among the familiar scents of roots, marsh plants, and slime, and the extraneous smell of horse dung, Laska detected at once a smell that pervaded the whole marsh, the scent of that strong-smelling bird that always excited her more than any other. Here and there among the moss and marsh plants this scent was very strong, but it was impossible to determine in which direction it grew stronger or fainter. To find the direction, she had to go farther away from the wind. Not feeling the motion of her legs, Laska bounded with a stiff gallop, so that at each bound she could stop short, to the right, away from the wind that blew from the east before sunrise, and turned facing the wind. Sniffing in the air with dilated nostrils, she felt at once that not their tracks only but they themselves were here before her, and not one, but many. Laska slackened her speed. They were here, but where precisely she could not yet determine. To find the very spot, she began to make a circle, when suddenly her master’s voice drew her off. ‘Laska! here?’ he asked, pointing her to a different direction. She stopped, asking him if she had better not go on doing as she had begun. But he repeated his command in an angry voice, pointing to a spot covered with water, where there could not be anything. She obeyed him, pretending she was looking, so as to please him, went round it, and went back to her former position, and was at once aware of the scent again. Now when he was not hindering her, she knew what to do, and without looking at what was under her feet, and to her vexation stumbling over a high stump into the water, but righting herself with her strong, supple legs, she began making the circle which was to make all clear to her. The scent of them reached her, stronger and stronger, and more and more defined, and all at once it became perfectly clear to her that one of them was here, behind this tuft of reeds, five paces in front of her; she stopped, and her whole body was still and rigid. On her short legs she could see nothing in front of her, but by the scent she knew it was sitting not more than five paces off. She stood still, feeling more and more conscious of it, and enjoying it in anticipation. Her tail was stretched straight and tense, and only wagging at the extreme end. Her mouth was slightly open, her ears raised. One ear had been turned wrong side out as she ran up, and she breathed heavily but warily, and still more warily looked round, but more with her eyes than her head, to her master. He was coming along with the face she knew so well, though the eyes were always terrible to her. He stumbled over the stump as he came, and moved, as she thought, extraordinarily slowly. She thought he came slowly, but he was running.
跑进沼泽地，在熟悉的树根、沼泽植物、粘液的气味和马粪的异味中，拉斯卡立刻闻到了弥漫在整个沼泽地里的气味，那是那只让她更兴奋的臭鸟的气味。比任何其他人。苔藓和沼泽植物中，到处都有这种气味，很浓烈，但无法确定它是向哪个方向变浓或变淡。为了找到方向，她必须离风远一点。拉斯卡感觉不到双腿的运动，她僵硬地奔跑着跳跃，这样，她每跳跃一次，就可以在日出前向右停下来，避开日出前从东边吹来的风，然后转身迎风。她张大鼻孔，嗅着空气，立刻感觉到，不仅是他们的足迹，还有他们自己就在她面前，而且不是一个，而是很多。拉斯卡放慢了速度。他们就在这里，但她还不能确定到底在哪里。为了找到那个地方，她开始绕圈，突然主人的声音把她拉开了。 ‘拉斯卡！在这里？”他问道，并给她指出了另一个方向。她停了下来，问他是否最好不要再继续做她已经开始的事情了。但他用愤怒的声音重复了一遍命令，指着一个被水覆盖的地方，那里不可能有任何东西。她听从了他的吩咐，假装自己正在看，以便取悦他，绕过它，回到原来的位置，立刻又闻到了那股气味。现在，当他不妨碍她时，她知道该怎么做，她没有看脚下的东西，也没有看她从高高的树桩上跌跌撞撞掉进水里的烦恼，而是用她强壮而柔软的双腿站直身子，开始做这个圆圈是为了让她明白一切。 它们的气味传到了她的身上，越来越浓，越来越清晰，她一下子就清楚地意识到，其中有一个就在这里，在这丛芦苇后面，在她面前五步远的地方。她停了下来，整个身体一动不动，僵硬。她的腿很短，她看不到前面的任何东西，但根据气味，她知道它就在距离她不超过五步的地方。她静静地站着，越来越意识到这一点，并在期待中享受它。她的尾巴伸得笔直、绷紧，只在最末端摇晃。她的嘴微微张开，耳朵竖起。当她跑起来时，一只耳朵已经翻到了外面，她呼吸粗重，但很谨慎，更加谨慎地环顾四周，但更多的是用眼睛而不是头，看着她的主人。他带着她熟悉的面孔走来，尽管那双眼睛总是让她感到可怕。他来的时候被树桩绊倒了，而且正如她所想，他的移动速度异常缓慢。她以为他来得很慢，但他却在跑。

Noticing Laska’s special attitude as she crouched on the ground, as it were, scratching big prints with her hind paws, and with her mouth slightly open, Levin knew she was pointing at grouse, and with an inward prayer for luck, especially with the first bird, he ran up to her. Coming quite close up to her, he could from his height look beyond her, and he saw with his eyes what she was seeing with her nose. In a space between two little thickets, at a couple of yards’ distance, he could see a grouse. Turning its head, it was listening. Then lightly preening and folding its wings, it disappeared round a corner with a clumsy wag of its tail.
注意到拉斯卡的特殊态度，她蹲在地上，用后爪抓着大脚印，嘴巴微微张开，莱文知道她指着松鸡，内心祈祷着好运，尤其是第一个。鸟儿，他跑向她。离她很近，他可以从他的高度看向她以外的地方，他用眼睛看到了她用鼻子看到的东西。在两片小灌木丛之间几码远的地方，他看到一只松鸡。它转过头，在倾听。然后，它轻轻梳理了一下翅膀，折叠起来，笨拙地摇着尾巴，消失在拐角处。

‘Fetch it, fetch it!’ shouted Levin, giving Laska a shove from behind.
“拿来，拿来！”莱文喊道，从后面推了拉斯卡一把。

‘But I can’t go,’ thought Laska. ‘Where am I to go? From here I feel them, but if I move forward I shall know nothing of where they are or who they are.’ But then he shoved her with his knee, and in an excited whisper said, ‘Fetch it, Laska.’
“但我不能去，”拉斯卡想。 ‘我该去哪里？从这里我感觉到他们，但如果我向前走，我将不知道他们在哪里，也不知道他们是谁。”但随后他用膝盖推了推她，兴奋地低声说道：“拿来，拉斯卡。”

‘Well, if that’s what he wishes, I’ll do it, but I can’t answer for myself now,’ she thought, and darted forward as fast as her legs would carry her between the thick bushes. She scented nothing now; she could only see and hear, without understanding anything.
“好吧，如果他愿意的话，我会这么做，但我现在不能为自己负责，”她想，然后用双腿以最快的速度向前冲去，穿过茂密的灌木丛。现在她已经闻不到任何气味了。她只能看到和听到，什么也听不懂。

Ten paces from her former place a grouse rose with a guttural cry and the peculiar round sound of its wings. And immediately after the shot it splashed heavily with its white breast on the wet mire. Another bird did not linger, but rose behind Levin without the dog. When Levin turned towards it, it was already some way off. But his shot caught it. Flying twenty paces further, the second grouse rose upwards, and whirling round like a ball, dropped heavily on a dry place.
距离她原来的地方十步远，一只松鸡升起，发出喉咙般的叫声和翅膀拍打时发出的奇特的圆形声音。射击之后，它立即用白色的胸脯重重地摔在潮湿的泥沼上。另一只鸟没有逗留，而是在没有狗的情况下从莱文身后升起。当莱文转向它时，它已经离开了一段距离。但他的射门抓住了它。再飞出二十步，第二只松鸡升起，像球一样旋转着，重重地落在干燥的地方。

‘Come, this is going to be some good!’ thought Levin, packing the warm and fat grouse into his game bag. ‘Eh, Laska, will it be good?’
“来吧，这会很好吃的！”莱文一边想，一边把温暖而肥硕的松鸡装进他的猎物包里。 “呃，拉斯卡，会好吗？”

When Levin, after loading his gun, moved on, the sun had fully risen, though unseen behind the storm-clouds. The moon had lost all of its luster, and was like a white cloud in the sky. Not a single star could be seen. The sedge, silvery with dew before, now shone like gold. The stagnant pools were all like amber. The blue of the grass had changed to yellow-green. The marsh birds twittered and swarmed about the brook and upon the bushes that glittered with dew and cast long shadows. A hawk woke up and settled on a haycock, turning its head from side to side and looking discontentedly at the marsh. Crows were flying about the field, and a bare-legged boy was driving the horses to an old man, who had got up from under his long coat and was combing his hair. The smoke from the gun was white as milk over the green of the grass.
当莱文装好枪继续前行时，太阳已经完全升起，尽管在暴风云后面看不见。月亮失去了所有的光泽，就像天空中的一朵白云。连一颗星星都看不见。莎草原本沾满露水，银白色，现在却金光闪闪。那些死水潭都像琥珀一样。草地的蓝色变成了黄绿色。沼泽里的鸟儿叽叽喳喳地叫着，成群结队地飞过小溪和灌木丛，灌木上露珠闪闪发光，投下长长的影子。一只鹰醒来，落在干草堆上，头左右转动，不满地看着沼泽地。乌鸦在田野里飞来飞去，一个光着腿的男孩正赶着马走向一位老人，老人从长外套下站起来，正在梳理头发。枪口冒出的烟雾像牛奶一样洁白，笼罩在绿色的草地上。

One of the boys ran up to Levin.
其中一个男孩跑向莱文。

‘Uncle, there were ducks here yesterday!’ he shouted to him, and he walked a little way off behind him.
“叔叔，昨天这里有鸭子！”他对他喊道，然后他就走到了他身后不远的地方。

And Levin was doubly pleased, in sight of the boy, who expressed his approval, at killing three snipe, one after another, straight off.
莱文看到这个男孩，他表示赞同，立刻就一只接一只地杀死了三只鹬，莱文感到加倍高兴。

Chapter 13
第13章

The sportsman’s saying, that if the first beast or the first bird is not missed, the day will be lucky, turned out correct.
运动员说，如果没有错过第一只野兽或第一只鸟，这一天就会很幸运，事实证明是正确的。

At ten o’clock Levin, weary, hungry, and happy after a tramp of twenty miles, returned to his night’s lodging with nineteen head of fine game and one duck, which he tied to his belt, as it would not go into the game bag. His companions had long been awake, and had had time to get hungry and have breakfast.
十点钟，莱文又累又饿，又高兴地走了二十英里，带着十九头优质猎物和一只鸭子回到了晚上的住处，他把它们系在腰带上，因为它不会参加比赛。包。同伴们早就醒了，有时间挨饿吃早饭。

‘Wait a bit, wait a bit, I know there are nineteen,’ said Levin, counting a second time over the grouse and snipe, that looked so much less important now, bent and dry and bloodstained, with heads crooked aside, than they did when they were flying.
“等一下，等一下，我知道有十九只，”莱文说，第二次数了数松鸡和鹬，它们现在看起来不那么重要了，它们弯腰、干燥、沾满血迹，头歪向一边，比它们重要得多。他们飞行时做的。

The number was verified, and Stepan Arkadyevitch’s envy pleased Levin. He was pleased too on returning to find the man sent by Kitty with a note was already there.
这个数字得到了证实，斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇的嫉妒让列文很高兴。当他回来时发现凯蒂派来的带着便条的人已经在那里，他也很高兴。

‘I am perfectly well and happy. If you were uneasy about me, you can feel easier than ever. I’ve a new bodyguard, Marya Vlasyevna,’—this was the midwife, a new and important personage in Levin’s domestic life. ‘She has come to have a look at me. She found me perfectly well, and we have kept her till you are back. All are happy and well, and please, don’t be in a hurry to come back, but, if the sport is good, stay another day.’
“我身体很好，很高兴。如果你对我感到不安，你会感觉比以前更轻松。我有一个新保镖，玛丽亚·弗拉西耶夫娜，”——这是助产士，莱文家庭生活中的一个新的重要人物。 ‘她是来看我的。她发现我很好，我们一直留着她直到你回来。所有人都很高兴，一切都很好，请不要急于回来，但是，如果这项运动很好，请再呆一天。”

These two pleasures, his lucky shooting and the letter from his wife, were so great that two slightly disagreeable incidents passed lightly over Levin. One was that the chestnut trace horse, who had been unmistakably overworked on the previous day, was off his feed and out of sorts. The coachman said he was ‘Overdriven yesterday, Konstantin Dmitrievitch. Yes, indeed! driven ten miles with no sense!’
他的幸运射击和妻子的来信这两种快乐是如此巨大，以至于两件稍微不愉快的事情都在莱文的身上轻松地过去了。其中之一是，前一天明显劳累过度的栗踪马已经断食，状态不佳。车夫说他昨天开得太快了，康斯坦丁·德米特里耶维奇。确实是的！毫无意义地开了十英里！”

The other unpleasant incident, which for the first minute destroyed his good humor, though later he laughed at it a great deal, was to find that of all the provisions Kitty had provided in such abundance that one would have thought there was enough for a week, nothing was left. On his way back, tired and hungry from shooting, Levin had so distinct a vision of meat-pies that as he approached the hut he seemed to smell and taste them, as Laska had smelt the game, and he immediately told Philip to give him some. It appeared that there were no pies left, nor even any chicken.
另一件不愉快的事情，在第一分钟破坏了他的好心情，尽管后来他嘲笑了很多，是发现基蒂提供的所有食物如此丰富，以至于人们会认为足够一周了，什么也没有留下。回来的路上，射击又累又饿，莱文清晰地看到了肉馅饼，当他走近小屋时，他似乎闻到了肉馅饼的味道，就像拉斯卡闻到了野味一样，他立即告诉菲利普把肉馅饼给他一些。看来馅饼已经没有了，连鸡肉也没有了。

‘Well, this fellow’s appetite!’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch, laughing and pointing at Vassenka Veslovsky. ‘I never suffer from loss of appetite, but he’s really marvelous!...’
“好吧，这家伙的胃口！”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季维奇指着瓦森卡·维斯洛夫斯基说道。 “我从来没有食欲不振，但他真的太棒了！……”

‘Well, it can’t be helped,’ said Levin, looking gloomily at Veslovsky. ‘Well, Philip, give me some beef, then.’
“好吧，这也是没办法的事。”莱文阴郁地看着韦斯洛夫斯基说道。 “好吧，菲利普，那就给我一些牛肉吧。”

‘The beef’s been eaten, and the bones given to the dogs,’ answered Philip.
“牛肉已经吃完了，骨头已经给狗吃了。”菲利普回答道。

Levin was so hurt that he said, in a tone of vexation, ‘You might have left me something!’ and he felt ready to cry.
莱文非常伤心，他用一种烦恼的语气说道：“你可能给我留下了一些东西！”他感觉自己快要哭了。

‘Then put away the game,’ he said in a shaking voice to Philip, trying not to look at Vassenka, ‘and cover them with some nettles. And you might at least ask for some milk for me.’
“然后把猎物收起来，”他用颤抖的声音对菲利普说，尽量不看瓦森卡，“然后用一些荨麻覆盖它们。”你至少可以给我要一些牛奶。

But when he had drunk some milk, he felt ashamed immediately at having shown his annoyance to a stranger, and he began to laugh at his hungry mortification.
但当他喝了一些牛奶后，他立即为向陌生人表现出自己的烦恼而感到羞愧，并开始嘲笑自己饥饿的屈辱。

In the evening they went shooting again, and Veslovsky had several successful shots, and in the night they drove home.
晚上他们又去射击，维斯洛夫斯基成功射击了几次，晚上他们就开车回家了。

Their homeward journey was as lively as their drive out had been. Veslovsky sang songs and related with enjoyment his adventures with the peasants, who had regaled him with vodka, and said to him, ‘Excuse our homely ways,’ and his night’s adventures with kiss-in-the-ring and the servant-girl and the peasant, who had asked him was he married, and on learning that he was not, said to him, ‘Well, mind you don’t run after other men’s wives—you’d better get one of your own.’ These words had particularly amused Veslovsky.
他们回家的路途和出发时一样热闹。维斯洛夫斯基一边唱着歌，一边兴致勃勃地讲述着他与农民们的冒险经历，农民们用伏特加招待了他，对他说：“请原谅我们的朴素生活方式。”以及他晚上与亲吻和女仆的冒险经历。那个农民问他是否结婚了，当得知他没有结婚时，他对他说：“好吧，注意你不要追别人的妻子——你最好找一个自己的妻子。”这些话让韦斯洛夫斯基特别好笑。

‘Altogether, I’ve enjoyed our outing awfully. And you, Levin?’
“总而言之，我非常享受我们的郊游。你呢，莱文？

‘I have, very much,’ Levin said quite sincerely. It was particularly delightful to him to have got rid of the hostility he had been feeling towards Vassenka Veslovsky at home, and to feel instead the most friendly disposition to him.
“我非常喜欢，”莱文非常真诚地说。让他特别高兴的是，他摆脱了家里对瓦森卡·韦斯洛夫斯基的敌意，取而代之的是对他最友好的态度。

Chapter 14
第14章

Next day at ten o’clock Levin, who had already gone his rounds, knocked at the room where Vassenka had been put for the night.
第二天十点钟，已经巡视完毕的列文敲响了瓦森卡过夜的房间。

‘Entrez!’ Veslovsky called to him. ‘Excuse me, I’ve only just finished my ablutions,’ he said, smiling, standing before him in his underclothes only.
“出发！”韦斯洛夫斯基对他喊道。 “对不起，我刚刚洗完澡，”他微笑着说，只穿着内衣站在他面前。

‘Don’t mind me, please.’ Levin sat down in the window. ‘Have you slept well?’
“请别介意我。”莱文在窗边坐下。 “你睡得好吗？”

‘Like the dead. What sort of day is it for shooting?’
‘就像死人一样。什么样的日子适合拍摄？

‘What will you take, tea or coffee?’
“你要喝什么，茶还是咖啡？”

‘Neither. I’ll wait till lunch. I’m really ashamed. I suppose the ladies are down? A walk now would be capital. You show me your horses.’
'两者都不。我会等到午餐。我真的很惭愧。我想女士们都已经落魄了？现在散步是最好的。你让我看看你的马。

After walking about the garden, visiting the stable, and even doing some gymnastic exercises together on the parallel bars, Levin returned to the house with his guest, and went with him into the drawing room.
在花园里走了一圈，参观了马厩，甚至一起在双杠上做了一些体操练习后，莱文和他的客人一起回到了房子，并和他一起走进了客厅。

‘We had splendid shooting, and so many delightful experiences!’ said Veslovsky, going up to Kitty, who was sitting at the samovar. ‘What a pity ladies are cut off from these delights!’
“我们的拍摄非常精彩，经历了很多愉快的经历！”韦斯洛夫斯基走到坐在茶炊旁的凯蒂身边说道。 “女士们与这些欢乐隔绝了，真是可惜！”

‘Well, I suppose he must say something to the lady of the house,’ Levin said to himself. Again he fancied something in the smile, in the all-conquering air with which their guest addressed Kitty....
“好吧，我想他必须对女主人说些什么，”莱文自言自语道。他再次想象出他们的客人对基蒂的微笑和无坚不摧的神态中的某些东西……

The princess, sitting on the other side of the table with Marya Vlasyevna and Stepan Arkadyevitch, called Levin to her side, and began to talk to him about moving to Moscow for Kitty’s confinement, and getting ready rooms for them. Just as Levin had disliked all the trivial preparations for his wedding, as derogatory to the grandeur of the event, now he felt still more offensive the preparations for the approaching birth, the date of which they reckoned, it seemed, on their fingers. He tried to turn a deaf ear to these discussions of the best patterns of long clothes for the coming baby; tried to turn away and avoid seeing the mysterious, endless strips of knitting, the triangles of linen, and so on, to which Dolly attached special importance. The birth of a son (he was certain it would be a son) which was promised him, but which he still could not believe in—so marvelous it seemed—presented itself to his mind, on one hand, as a happiness so immense, and therefore so incredible; on the other, as an event so mysterious, that this assumption of a definite knowledge of what would be, and consequent preparation for it, as for something ordinary that did happen to people, jarred on him as confusing and humiliating.
公主与玛丽亚·弗拉西耶夫娜和斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇坐在桌子的另一边，把列文叫到她身边，开始和他谈论搬到莫斯科去坐月子的事情，并为他们准备房间。正如莱文不喜欢为他的婚礼做所有琐碎的准备工作一样，认为这是对婚礼的隆重的贬低，现在他对即将到来的出生的准备工作感到更加无礼，他们似乎在手指上计算着出生的日期。他试图对这些关于即将出生的婴儿长衣服的最佳款式的讨论置若罔闻。试图转过身去，避免看到多莉特别重视的神秘的、无尽的针织条、亚麻三角形等等。一个儿子的诞生（他确信这将是一个儿子），这是向他许诺的，但他仍然无法相信——这似乎太奇妙了——一方面，在他的脑海中呈现出一种巨大的幸福，因此如此令人难以置信；另一方面，作为一个如此神秘的事件，这种假设对将要发生的事情有明确的了解，并为此做好准备，就像发生在人们身上的普通事情一样，这让他感到困惑和羞辱。

But the princess did not understand his feelings, and put down his reluctance to think and talk about it to carelessness and indifference, and so she gave him no peace. She had commissioned Stepan Arkadyevitch to look at a flat, and now she called Levin up.
但公主并不理解他的感受，把他不愿思考和谈论的事情归咎于粗心和冷漠，所以她让他不得安宁。她委托斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇去看一套公寓，现在她给列文打电话。

‘I know nothing about it, princess. Do as you think fit,’ he said.
“我对此一无所知，公主。做你认为合适的事，”他说。

‘You must decide when you will move.’
“你必须决定何时搬家。”

‘I really don’t know. I know millions of children are born away from Moscow, and doctors...why...’
‘我真的不知道。我知道数百万儿童在莫斯科以外的地方出生，而医生……为什么……”

‘But if so...’
“但如果是这样的话……”

‘Oh, no, as Kitty wishes.’
“哦，不，正如基蒂所希望的那样。”

‘We can’t talk to Kitty about it! Do you want me to frighten her? Why, this spring Natalia Golitzina died from having an ignorant doctor.’
“我们不能和基蒂谈论这件事！你想让我吓唬她吗？为什么，今年春天，娜塔莉亚·戈利茨纳（Natalia Golitzina）就因为一位无知的医生而去世了。”

‘I will do just what you say,’ he said gloomily.
他阴郁地说：“我会照你说的做。”

The princess began talking to him, but he did not hear her. Though the conversation with the princess had indeed jarred upon him, he was gloomy, not on account of that conversation, but from what he saw at the samovar.
公主开始跟他说话，但他没有听到。虽然与公主的谈话确实让他感到不舒服，但他却感到阴郁，不是因为那次谈话，而是因为他在茶炊里看到的东西。

‘No, it’s impossible,’ he thought, glancing now and then at Vassenka bending over Kitty, telling her something with his charming smile, and at her, flushed and disturbed.
“不，这是不可能的，”他想，时不时地看看瓦森卡俯身在基蒂身上，用他迷人的微笑告诉她一些事情，然后又看看她，脸红了，心神不安。

There was something not nice in Vassenka’s attitude, in his eyes, in his smile. Levin even saw something not nice in Kitty’s attitude and look. And again the light died away in his eyes. Again, as before, all of a sudden, without the slightest transition, he felt cast down from a pinnacle of happiness, peace, and dignity, into an abyss of despair, rage, and humiliation. Again everything and everyone had become hateful to him.
瓦森卡的态度、眼神和笑容都有些不好。莱文甚至从基蒂的态度和神情中看出了一些不好的地方。他眼中的光芒再次消失。又像以前一样，突然之间，没有丝毫的转变，他感到从幸福、平安、尊严的顶峰跌落到了绝望、愤怒、屈辱的深渊。所有的一切、每个人都再次变得令他憎恶。

‘You do just as you think best, princess,’ he said again, looking round.
“你想怎么做就怎么做，公主，”他环视四周，再次说道。

‘Heavy is the cap of Monomach,’ Stepan Arkadyevitch said playfully, hinting, evidently, not simply at the princess’s conversation, but at the cause of Levin’s agitation, which he had noticed.
“莫诺马赫的帽子很重，”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇开玩笑地说，显然，他不仅暗示了公主的谈话，还暗示了列文激动的原因，他已经注意到了这一点。

‘How late you are today, Dolly!’
“你今天多晚了啊，多莉！”

Everyone got up to greet Darya Alexandrovna. Vassenka only rose for an instant, and with the lack of courtesy to ladies characteristic of the modern young man, he scarcely bowed, and resumed his conversation again, laughing at something.
每个人都站起来迎接达里娅·亚历山德罗芙娜。瓦森卡只是站起身来，缺乏现代年轻人特有的对女士的礼貌，他几乎没有鞠躬，又继续谈话，笑了笑。

‘I’ve been worried about Masha. She did not sleep well, and is dreadfully tiresome today,’ said Dolly.
“我一直很担心玛莎。她睡得不好，今天实在是太累了。”多莉说。

The conversation Vassenka had started with Kitty was running on the same lines as on the previous evening, discussing Anna, and whether love is to be put higher than worldly considerations. Kitty disliked the conversation, and she was disturbed both by the subject and the tone in which it was conducted, and also by the knowledge of the effect it would have on her husband. But she was too simple and innocent to know how to cut short this conversation, or even to conceal the superficial pleasure afforded her by the young man’s very obvious admiration. She wanted to stop it, but she did not know what to do. Whatever she did she knew would be observed by her husband, and the worst interpretation put on it. And, in fact, when she asked Dolly what was wrong with Masha, and Vassenka, waiting till this uninteresting conversation was over, began to gaze indifferently at Dolly, the question struck Levin as an unnatural and disgusting piece of hypocrisy.
瓦森卡与基蒂开始的谈话与前一天晚上的内容相同，讨论安娜，以及爱情是否应该高于世俗的考虑。基蒂不喜欢这次谈话，她对这次谈话的主题和语气感到不安，也因为知道这会对她丈夫产生影响。但她太单纯天真了，不知道如何打断这场谈话，甚至不知道如何掩饰这个年轻人明显的钦佩给她带来的肤浅的快乐。她想要阻止，却又不知道该怎么办。她知道无论她做什么都会受到丈夫的观察，并做出最糟糕的解释。事实上，当她问多莉玛莎怎么了，而瓦森卡等到这场无趣的谈话结束后，开始冷漠地注视多莉时，莱文觉得这个问题是一种不自然、令人厌恶的虚伪。

‘What do you say, shall we go and look for mushrooms today?’ said Dolly.
“你说怎么样，我们今天去寻找蘑菇吗？”多莉说。

‘By all means, please, and I shall come too,’ said Kitty, and she blushed. She wanted from politeness to ask Vassenka whether he would come, and she did not ask him. ‘Where are you going, Kostya?’ she asked her husband with a guilty face, as he passed by her with a resolute step. This guilty air confirmed all his suspicions.
“无论如何，拜托，我也去吧，”基蒂说，她脸红了。她出于礼貌想问瓦森卡他是否会来，但她没有问他。 “克斯特亚，你要去哪里？”当丈夫迈着坚定的步伐从她身边走过时，她一脸愧疚地问他。这股愧疚的神情证实了他所有的怀疑。

‘The mechanician came when I was away; I haven’t seen him yet,’ he said, not looking at her.
“我不在的时候，机械师来了；我还没见过他。”他说，没有看她。

He went downstairs, but before he had time to leave his study he heard his wife’s familiar footsteps running with reckless speed to him.
他下了楼，还没来得及离开书房，就听到妻子熟悉的脚步声不顾一切地向他跑来。

‘What do you want?’ he said to her shortly. ‘We are busy.’
“你想要什么？”他简短地对她说道。 '我们很忙。'

‘I beg your pardon,’ she said to the German mechanician; ‘I want a few words with my husband.’
“请您原谅，”她对德国机械师说道。 “我想和我丈夫说几句话。”

The German would have left the room, but Levin said to him:
德国人本想离开房间，但莱文对他说：

‘Don’t disturb yourself.’
“别打扰自己。”

‘The train is at three?’ queried the German. ‘I mustn’t be late.’
“火车三点钟？”德国人问道。 “我不能迟到。”

Levin did not answer him, but walked out himself with his wife.
莱文没有回答他，而是带着妻子走了出去。

‘Well, what have you to say to me?’ he said to her in French.
“那么，你有什么话要对我说的？”他用法语对她说。

He did not look her in the face, and did not care to see that she in her condition was trembling all over, and had a piteous, crushed look.
他没有看她的脸，也不在乎看到她浑身颤抖，一副可怜巴巴的样子。

‘I...I want to say that we can’t go on like this; that this is misery...’ she said.
‘我……我想说，我们不能再这样下去了；这就是痛苦……”她说。

‘The servants are here at the sideboard,’ he said angrily; ‘don’t make a scene.’
“仆人们都在餐具柜旁，”他生气地说。 “别大吵大闹。”

‘Well, let’s go in here!’
“好吧，我们进去吧！”

They were standing in the passage. Kitty would have gone into the next room, but there the English governess was giving Tanya a lesson.
他们站在通道里。基蒂本来会走进隔壁房间，但英国家庭女教师正在那里给坦尼娅上课。

‘Well, come into the garden.’
“好吧，到花园里来吧。”

In the garden they came upon a peasant weeding the path. And no longer considering that the peasant could see her tear-stained and his agitated face, that they looked like people fleeing from some disaster, they went on with rapid steps, feeling that they must speak out and clear up misunderstandings, must be alone together, and so get rid of the misery they were both feeling.
在花园里，他们遇到一个正在除草的农民。也不再考虑农民看到她满脸泪痕和激动的脸，也不再考虑他们像是逃离灾难的人，他们快步向前走，觉得必须说出来，消除误会，必须单独在一起。 ，从而摆脱他们都感受到的痛苦。

‘We can’t go on like this! It’s misery! I am wretched; you are wretched. What for?’ she said, when they had at last reached a solitary garden seat at a turn in the lime tree avenue.
‘我们不能再这样下去了！这是痛苦！我很可怜；你很可怜。 “为什么？”当他们终于到达椴树大道拐角处的一个孤独的花园座位时，她问道。

‘But tell me one thing: was there in his tone anything unseemly, not nice, humiliatingly horrible?’ he said, standing before her again in the same position with his clenched fists on his chest, as he had stood before her that night.
“但是告诉我一件事：他的语气中是否有任何不体面、不友善、令人羞辱的可怕之处？”他说，再次以同样的姿势站在她面前，握紧拳头放在胸前，就像那天晚上他站在她面前一样。

‘Yes,’ she said in a shaking voice; ‘but, Kostya, surely you see I’m not to blame? All the morning I’ve been trying to take a tone...but such people ...Why did he come? How happy we were!’ she said, breathless with the sobs that shook her.
“是的，”她声音颤抖地说。 “但是，克斯特亚，你肯定明白我不应该受到责备吗？”整个早上我都在努力调整语气……但是这样的人……他为什么来？我们多么幸福啊！”她抽泣着，气喘吁吁地说。

Although nothing had been pursuing them, and there was nothing to run away from, and they could not possibly have found anything very delightful on that garden seat, the gardener saw with astonishment that they passed him on their way home with comforted and radiant faces.
虽然没有什么东西在追赶他们，也没有什么东西可以逃避，而且他们也不可能在花园的座位上找到任何令人愉快的东西，但园丁惊讶地发现，他们在回家的路上经过他身边，脸上带着安慰和容光焕发的表情。

Chapter 15
第15章

After escorting his wife upstairs, Levin went to Dolly’s part of the house. Darya Alexandrovna, for her part, was in great distress too that day. She was walking about the room, talking angrily to a little girl, who stood in the corner roaring.
护送妻子上楼后，莱文去了多莉住的地方。达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜那天也感到非常痛苦。她在房间里走来走去，愤怒地对一个站在角落里咆哮的小女孩说话。

‘And you shall stand all day in the corner, and have your dinner all alone, and not see one of your dolls, and I won’t make you a new frock,’ she said, not knowing how to punish her.
“你将整天站在角落里，独自吃晚饭，看不到你的洋娃娃，我不会给你做一件新衣服，”她说，不知道如何惩罚她。

‘Oh, she is a disgusting child!’ she turned to Levin. ‘Where does she get such wicked propensities?’
“哦，她是个令人恶心的孩子！”她转向莱文。 “她哪里来的这么邪恶的癖好？”

‘Why, what has she done?’ Levin said without much interest, for he had wanted to ask her advice, and so was annoyed that he had come at an unlucky moment.
“怎么了，她做了什么？”莱文没多大兴趣地说，因为他本来想征求她的意见，所以对自己来得不合时宜感到恼火。

‘Grisha and she went into the raspberries, and there...I can’t tell you really what she did. It’s a thousand pities Miss Elliot’s not with us. This one sees to nothing—she’s a machine.... Figurez-vous que la petite?...’
“格里莎和她走进了覆盆子，在那里……我无法告诉你她到底做了什么。艾略特小姐没有和我们在一起真是千遗憾。这个人什么也看不到——她是一台机器……Figurez-vous que la petite？……”

And Darya Alexandrovna described Masha’s crime.
达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜描述了玛莎的罪行。

‘That proves nothing; it’s not a question of evil propensities at all, it’s simply mischief,’ Levin assured her.
‘这并不能证明什么； “这根本不是邪恶倾向的问题，这只是恶作剧，”莱文向她保证。

‘But you are upset about something? What have you come for?’ asked Dolly. ‘What’s going on there?’
‘但是你因为什么事而感到不安吗？ “你来干什么？”多莉问道。 “那里发生了什么事？”

And in the tone of her question Levin heard that it would be easy for him to say what he had meant to say.
从她提问的语气中，莱文听出了他很容易说出自己想说的话。

‘I’ve not been in there, I’ve been alone in the garden with Kitty. We’ve had a quarrel for the second time since...Stiva came.’
“我没去过那里，我和基蒂独自在花园里。自从……斯蒂瓦来了之后，我们已经第二次吵架了。”

Dolly looked at him with her shrewd, comprehending eyes.
多莉用她那双精明而理解的眼睛看着他。

‘Come, tell me, honor bright, has there been...not in Kitty, but in that gentleman’s behavior, a tone which might be unpleasant— not unpleasant, but horrible, offensive to a husband?’
“来吧，请告诉我，光明正大的，有没有……不是在基蒂身上，而是在那位绅士的行为中，一种可能令人不快的语气——不是令人不快，而是可怕的，冒犯丈夫的？”

‘You mean, how shall I say.... Stay, stay in the corner!’ she said to Masha, who, detecting a faint smile in her mother’s face, had been turning round. ‘The opinion of the world would be that he is behaving as young men do behave. Il fait la cour a une jeune et jolie femme, and a husband who’s a man of the world should only be flattered by it.’
“你的意思是，我该怎么说……呆着，呆在角落里！”她对玛莎说，玛莎发现母亲脸上挂着淡淡的微笑，正转过身来。 “世人的看法是，他的行为就像年轻人的行为一样。 Il fait la cour a une jeune et jolie femme，一个见多识广的丈夫应该对此感到受宠若惊。

‘Yes, yes,’ said Levin gloomily; ‘but you noticed it?’
“是的，是的，”列文阴郁地说。 “但是你注意到了吗？”

‘Not only I, but Stiva noticed it. Just after breakfast he said to me in so many words, Je crois que Veslovsky fait un petit brin de cour a Kitty.’
‘不仅是我，斯蒂瓦也注意到了这一点。早餐后，他对我说了很多话，“Je crois que Veslovsky fait un petit brin de cour a Kitty”。

‘Well, that’s all right then; now I’m satisfied. I’ll send him away,’ said Levin.
” “好吧，那就没问题了；现在我很满意了。 “我会送他走的。”莱文说道。

‘What do you mean! Are you crazy?’ Dolly cried in horror; ‘nonsense, Kostya, only think!’ she said, laughing. ‘You can go now to Fanny,’ she said to Masha. ‘No, if you wish it, I’ll speak to Stiva. He’ll take him away. He can say you’re expecting visitors. Altogether he doesn’t fit into the house.’
'你是什么意思！ “你疯了吗？”多莉惊恐地喊道。 “胡说八道，克斯特亚，你想想吧！”她笑着说道。 “你现在可以去找范妮了，”她对玛莎说。 “不，如果你愿意的话，我会和斯蒂瓦谈谈。他会带他走。他可以说你正在等待访客。总而言之，他不适合这所房子。

‘No, no, I’ll do it myself.’
“不，不，我自己来。”

‘But you’ll quarrel with him?’
“但是你会和他吵架吗？”

‘Not a bit. I shall so enjoy it,’ Levin said, his eyes flashing with real enjoyment. ‘Come, forgive her, Dolly, she won’t do it again,’ he said of the little sinner, who had not gone to Fanny, but was standing irresolutely before her mother, waiting and looking up from under her brows to catch her mother’s eye.
” “一点也没有。我会很享受的。”莱文说道，他的眼睛里闪烁着真正的享受。 “来吧，原谅她，多莉，她不会再这样做了，”他谈到这个小罪人时说道，她没有去找范妮，而是犹豫不决地站在她母亲面前，等待着，从她的眉下抬起头来接住她。母亲的眼睛。

The mother glanced at her. The child broke into sobs, hid her face on her mother’s lap, and Dolly laid her thin, tender hand on her head.
母亲看了她一眼。孩子抽泣起来，把脸埋在母亲的腿上，多莉把她瘦弱而温柔的手放在她的头上。

‘And what is there in common between us and him?’ thought Levin, and he went off to look for Veslovsky.
“我们和他之间有什么共同点呢？”列文想道，然后他就去找维斯洛夫斯基了。

As he passed through the passage he gave orders for the carriage to be got ready to drive to the station.
当他穿过通道时，他吩咐马车准备驶往车站。

‘The spring was broken yesterday,’ said the footman.
“昨天弹簧坏了，”仆人说。

‘Well, the covered trap, then, and make haste. Where’s the visitor?’
“好吧，那么，有盖的陷阱，快点。”访客在哪里？

‘The gentleman’s gone to his room.’
“这位先生已经回房间了。”

Levin came upon Veslovsky at the moment when the latter, having unpacked his things from his trunk, and laid out some new songs, was putting on his gaiters to go out riding.
列文遇到了韦斯洛夫斯基，当时韦斯洛夫斯基已经从行李箱里取出了东西，放了一些新歌，正戴上绑腿出去骑马。

Whether there was something exceptional in Levin’s face, or that Vassenka was himself conscious that ce petit brin de cour he was making was out of place in this family, but he was somewhat (as much as a young man in society can be) disconcerted at Levin’s entrance.
莱文的脸上是否有什么异常，或者瓦森卡自己意识到他做的小牛肉在这个家庭里不合适，但他有点（就像社会上的年轻人一样）感到不安莱文的入口。

‘You ride in gaiters?’
“你骑着绑腿吗？”

‘Yes, it’s much cleaner,’ said Vassenka, putting his fat leg on a chair, fastening the bottom hook, and smiling with simple-hearted good humor.
“是的，干净多了。”瓦森卡一边说，一边把肥腿放在椅子上，扣紧底部的挂钩，脸上带着单纯的幽默微笑。

He was undoubtedly a good-natured fellow, and Levin felt sorry for him and ashamed of himself, as his host, when he saw the shy look on Vassenka’s face.
他无疑是一个心地善良的人，当莱文看到瓦森卡脸上害羞的表情时，他为他感到难过，并为自己作为主人感到羞愧。

On the table lay a piece of stick which they had broken together that morning, trying their strength. Levin took the fragment in his hands and began smashing it up, breaking bits off the stick, not knowing how to begin.
桌子上放着一根木棍，是他们那天早上折断的，尝试着用力。莱文把碎片拿在手里，开始把它砸碎，把棍子上的碎片弄碎，不知道如何开始。

‘I wanted....’ He paused, but suddenly, remembering Kitty and everything that had happened, he said, looking him resolutely in the face: ‘I have ordered the horses to be put-to for you.’
“我想要……”他停顿了一下，但突然想起基蒂和所发生的一切，他坚定地看着他的脸说道：“我已经下令为你放马了。”

‘How so?’ Vassenka began in surprise. ‘To drive where?’
“怎么会这样？”瓦森卡惊讶地说道。 “开车去哪里？”

‘For you to drive to the station,’ Levin said gloomily.
“让你开车去车站。”莱文阴郁地说。

‘Are you going away, or has something happened?’
“你要走了，还是发生了什么事情？”

‘It happens that I expect visitors,’ said Levin, his strong fingers more and more rapidly breaking off the ends of the split stick. ‘And I’m not expecting visitors, and nothing has happened, but I beg you to go away. You can explain my rudeness as you like.’
“碰巧我正在等待访客，”莱文说道，他有力的手指越来越快地折断了劈开的棍子的末端。 “我并没有期待访客，也没有发生任何事情，但我请求你离开。你可以随意解释我的无礼行为。

Vassenka drew himself up.
瓦森卡挺直了身子。

‘I beg you to explain...’ he said with dignity, understanding at last.
“我请求你解释一下……”他终于明白了，尊严地说。

‘I can’t explain,’ Levin said softly and deliberately, trying to control the trembling of his jaw; ‘and you’d better not ask.’
“我无法解释，”莱文轻声而刻意地说，试图控制下巴的颤抖。 “你最好别问。”

And as the split ends were all broken off, Levin clutched the thick ends in his finger, broke the stick in two, and carefully caught the end as it fell.
当分叉的末端全部折断时，莱文用手指抓住了粗大的末端，将棍子折成两半，小心地接住了掉落的末端。

Probably the sight of those nervous fingers, of the muscles he had proved that morning at gymnastics, of the glittering eyes, the soft voice, and quivering jaws, convinced Vassenka better than any words. He bowed, shrugging his shoulders, and smiling contemptuously.
也许是那些紧张的手指、那天早上他在体操中证明的肌肉、闪闪发光的眼睛、柔和的声音和颤抖的下巴，比任何言语都更让瓦森卡相信。他鞠了一躬，耸了耸肩，轻蔑地微笑着。

‘Can I not see Oblonsky?’
“我能见不到奥布朗斯基吗？”

The shrug and the smile did not irritate Levin.
耸肩和微笑并没有激怒莱文。

‘What else was there for him to do?’ he thought.
“他还有什么可做的呢？”他想。

‘I’ll send him to you at once.’
“我马上把他派给你。”

‘What madness is this?’ Stepan Arkadyevitch said when, after hearing from his friend that he was being turned out of the house, he found Levin in the garden, where he was walking about waiting for his guest’s departure. ‘Mais c’est ridicule! What fly has stung you? Mais c’est du dernier ridicule! What did you think, if a young man...’
“这是什么疯狂的事？”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇在听朋友说他要被赶出家门后，发现列文在花园里，他正在花园里走来走去，等待客人离开，他说道。 “这就是嘲笑！”什么苍蝇叮了你？这就是最后的嘲笑！如果一个年轻人……你会怎么想？

But the place where Levin had been stung was evidently still sore, for he turned pale again, when Stepan Arkadyevitch would have enlarged on the reason, and he himself cut him short.
但列文被蜇的地方显然还很痛，因为当斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇想进一步阐述原因时，他的脸色又变白了，他自己打断了他。

‘Please don’t go into it! I can’t help it. I feel ashamed of how I’m treating you and him. But it won’t be, I imagine, a great grief to him to go, and his presence was distasteful to me and to my wife.’
‘请不要介入其中！我情不自禁。我为自己对待你和他的方式感到羞愧。但我想，他的离开不会让他感到巨大的悲伤，而且他的出现对我和我的妻子来说都是令人厌恶的。”

‘But it’s insulting to him! Et puis c’est ridicule.’
“但这对他来说是一种侮辱！ Et puis c'est 嘲笑。

‘And to me it’s both insulting and distressing! And I’m not at fault in any way, and there’s no need for me to suffer.’
“对我来说，这既是侮辱又令人痛苦！我没有任何过错，我没有必要受苦。

‘Well, this I didn’t expect of you! On peut etre jaloux, mais a ce point, c’est du dernier ridicule!’
‘好吧，我没想到你会这样！ On peut etre jaloux, mais a ce point, c'est du dernier 嘲笑!’

Levin turned quickly, and walked away from him into the depths of the avenue, and he went on walking up and down alone. Soon he heard the rumble of the trap, and saw from behind the trees how Vassenka, sitting in the hay (unluckily there was no seat in the trap) in his Scotch cap, was driven along the avenue, jolting up and down over the ruts.
莱文迅速转身，离开他，走进大道深处，他一个人继续走来走去。很快，他就听到了陷阱的隆隆声，从树林后面看到瓦森卡戴着苏格兰帽，坐在干草上（不幸的是，陷阱里没有座位），沿着大道行驶，在车辙上上下颠簸。 。

‘What’s this?’ Levin thought, when a footman ran out of the house and stopped the trap. It was the mechanician, whom Levin had totally forgotten. The mechanician, bowing low, said something to Veslovsky, then clambered into the trap, and they drove off together.
“这是什么？”莱文心想，这时一个仆人跑出房子，拦住了陷阱。那是那位机械师，莱文已经把他完全忘记了。机械师深深鞠了一躬，对韦斯洛夫斯基说了些什么，然后爬进了陷阱，然后他们一起开车走了。

Stepan Arkadyevitch and the princess were much upset by Levin’s action. And he himself felt not only in the highest degree ridicule, but also utterly guilty and disgraced. But remembering what sufferings he and his wife had been through, when he asked himself how he should act another time, he answered that he should do just the same again.
斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇和公主对列文的行为感到非常不安。而他本人不仅感到极大的嘲笑，而且感到无比的愧疚和耻辱。但想起他和妻子所经历的痛苦，当他问自己下次应该如何做时，他回答说他应该再做同样的事情。

In spite of all this, towards the end of that day, everyone except the princess, who could not pardon Levin’s action, became extraordinarily lively and good humored, like children after a punishment or grown-up people after a dreary, ceremonious reception, so that by the evening Vassenka’s dismissal was spoken of, in the absence of the princess, as though it were some remote event. And Dolly, who had inherited her father’s gift of humorous storytelling, made Varenka helpless with laughter as she related for the third and fourth time, always with fresh humorous additions, how she had only just put on her new shoes for the benefit of the visitor, and on going into the drawing room, heard suddenly the rumble of the trap. And who should be in the trap but Vassenka himself, with his Scotch cap, and his songs and his gaiters, and all, sitting in the hay.
尽管如此，那天快结束的时候，除了无法原谅莱文行为的公主之外，其他人都变得异常活泼和幽默，就像受过惩罚的孩子或沉闷而隆重的接待后的成年人一样，所以到了晚上，公主不在场的情况下，人们谈到了瓦森卡被解雇的事，就好像这是一件遥远的事情一样。而多莉继承了她父亲幽默讲故事的天赋，她第三次、第四次讲述她刚刚穿上新鞋为来访者做事时，她总是用新鲜的幽默来讲述，这让瓦伦卡忍俊不禁。 ，正当走进客厅时，突然听到陷阱的隆隆声。除了瓦森卡本人，还有谁应该落入陷阱，他戴着苏格兰帽，唱着歌，穿着绑腿，坐在干草上。

‘If only you’d ordered out the carriage! But no! and then I hear: ‘Stop!’ Oh, I thought they’ve relented. I look out, and behold a fat German being sat down by him and driving away.... And my new shoes all for nothing!...’
“要是你叫出马车就好了！”但不是！然后我听到：“停下来！”哦，我以为他们已经软化了。我向外望去，看到一个肥胖的德国人坐在他身边，然后开车走了……而我的新鞋却白费了！……”

Chapter 16
第16章

Darya Alexandrovna carried out her intention and went to see Anna. She was sorry to annoy her sister and to do anything Levin disliked. She quite understood how right the Levins were in not wishing to have anything to do with Vronsky. But she felt she must go and see Anna, and show her that her feelings could not be changed, in spite of the change in her position. That she might be independent of the Levins in this expedition, Darya Alexandrovna sent to the village to hire horses for the drive; but Levin learning of it went to her to protest.
达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜实现了她的愿望，去见了安娜。她很抱歉惹恼了她的妹妹，也很抱歉做了莱文不喜欢的事情。她很明白莱文夫妇不想与渥伦斯基有任何关系是多么正确。但她觉得她必须去见安娜，让她知道，尽管她的立场发生了变化，但她的感情是无法改变的。为了在这次远征中她能独立于莱文一家，达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜派人到村里雇马匹来驱车。但莱文得知此事后去找她抗议。

‘What makes you suppose that I dislike your going? But, even if I did dislike it, I should still more dislike your not taking my horses,’ he said. ‘You never told me that you were going for certain. Hiring horses in the village is disagreeable to me, and, what’s of more importance, they’ll undertake the job and never get you there. I have horses. And if you don’t want to wound me, you’ll take mine.’
‘你凭什么认为我不喜欢你去？但是，即使我确实不喜欢它，我应该更不喜欢你不带走我的马。”他说。 “你从来没有告诉过我你一定会去。在村里雇马对我来说很不舒服，更重要的是，他们会承担这项工作，但永远不会带你去那里。我有马。如果你不想伤害我，你就拿走我的。”

Darya Alexandrovna had to consent, and on the day fixed Levin had ready for his sister-in-law a set of four horses and relays, getting them together from the farmand saddle-horses—not at all a smart-looking set, but capable of taking Darya Alexandrovna the whole distance in a single day. At that moment, when horses were wanted for the princess, who was going, and for the midwife, it was a difficult matter for Levin to make up the number, but the duties of hospitality would not let him allow Darya Alexandrovna to hire horses when staying in his house. Moreover, he was well aware that the twenty roubles that would be asked for the journey were a serious matter for her; Darya Alexandrovna’s pecuniary affairs, which were in a very unsatisfactory state, were taken to heart by the Levins as if they were their own.
达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜不得不同意，在固定的那天，列文为他的嫂子准备了一组四匹马和接力赛，把它们从农场和鞍马集中在一起——看起来一点也不漂亮，但很有能力一天之内带着达里娅·亚历山德罗芙娜走完全程。当时，当要去的公主和助产士需要马匹时，列文很难弥补数量，但招待的职责不允许他允许达里娅·亚历山德罗芙娜在当时雇用马匹。住在他家里。而且，他很清楚，路费二十卢布对她来说是一件大事。达里娅·亚历山德罗芙娜的财务状况非常不理想，莱文夫妇却把这件事当成自己的事一样放在心上。

Darya Alexandrovna, by Levin’s advice, started before daybreak. The road was good, the carriage comfortable, the horses trotted along merrily, and on the box, besides the coachman, sat the counting-house clerk, whom Levin was sending instead of a groom for greater security. Darya Alexandrovna dozed and waked up only on reaching the inn where the horses were to be changed.
达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜按照莱文的建议，在黎明前出发。路况良好，马车舒适，马匹欢快地奔跑着，车厢上除了马车夫之外，还坐着账房职员，莱文派他代替马夫，是为了更安全。达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜打了瞌睡，直到到达要换马的旅馆才醒来。

After drinking tea at the same well-to-do peasant’s with whom Levin had stayed on the way to Sviazhsky’s, and chatting with the women about their children, and with the old man about Count Vronsky, whom the latter praised very highly, Darya Alexandrovna, at ten o’clock, went on again. At home, looking after her children, she had no time to think. So now, after this journey of four hours, all the thoughts she had suppressed before rushed swarming into her brain, and she thought over all her life as she never had before, and from the most different points of view. Her thoughts seemed strange even to herself. At first she thought about the children, about whom she was uneasy, although the princess and Kitty (she reckoned more upon her) had promised to look after them. ‘If only Masha does not begin her naughty tricks, if Grisha isn’t kicked by a horse, and Lily’s stomach isn’t upset again!’ she thought. But these questions of the present were succeeded by questions of the immediate future. She began thinking how she had to get a new flat in Moscow for the coming winter, to renew the drawing room furniture, and to make her elder girl a cloak. Then questions of the more remote future occurred to her: how she was to place her children in the world. ‘The girls are all right,’ she thought; ‘but the boys?’
达里娅·亚历山德罗芙娜在去斯维亚日斯基家的路上，列文在同一个富裕农民家里喝了茶，与妇女们谈论了她们的孩子，又与老人谈论了渥伦斯基伯爵，后者对渥伦斯基伯爵的评价很高。十点钟，又继续。在家照顾孩子，她无暇思考。所以现在，经过这四个小时的旅程，之前压抑的所有想法都涌入了她的大脑，她以前所未有的方式、从最不同的角度思考了自己的一生。她的想法连她自己都觉得很奇怪。起初她想到了孩子们，虽然公主和基蒂（她更看重她）答应照顾他们，但她还是对他们感到不安。 “如果玛莎没有开始她的顽皮把戏，如果格里莎没有被马踢，莉莉的胃就不会再不舒服就好了！”她想。但现在的这些问题被不久的将来的问题所取代。她开始思考如何在即将到来的冬天在莫斯科买一套新公寓，更新客厅家具，并为她的大女儿做一件斗篷。然后她想到了更遥远的未来的问题：她将如何将她的孩子安置在这个世界上。 “女孩们都很好，”她想。 “但是男孩们呢？”

‘It’s very well that I’m teaching Grisha, but of course that’s only because I am free myself now, I’m not with child. Stiva, of course, there’s no counting on. And with the help of good-natured friends I can bring them up; but if there’s another baby coming?...’ And the thought struck her how untruly it was said that the curse laid on woman was that in sorrow she should bring forth children.
“我教格里沙很好，但当然那只是因为我现在自由了，我没有孩子。 Stiva，当然，没有指望。在好心朋友的帮助下我可以抚养他们；但如果还有另一个孩子出生呢？……”她突然想到，据说女人受到的诅咒是在悲伤中生孩子，这是多么不真实。

‘The birth itself, that’s nothing; but the months of carrying the child—that’s what’s so intolerable,’ she thought, picturing to herself her last pregnancy, and the death of the last baby. And she recalled the conversation she had just had with the young woman at the inn. On being asked whether she had any children, the handsome young woman had answered cheerfully:
‘出生本身，那没什么；但怀着孩子的几个月——这才是令人难以忍受的，”她想，一边想象着她最后一次怀孕，以及最后一个孩子的死亡。她又想起了刚刚在客栈里与少妇的对话。当被问及是否有孩子时，这位美丽的年轻女子高兴地回答：

‘I had a girl baby, but God set me free; I buried her last Lent.’
“我生了一个女婴，但上帝让我自由了；我埋葬了她最后的四旬斋。

‘Well, did you grieve very much for her?’ asked Darya Alexandrovna.
“那么，你为她感到非常悲伤吗？”达里娅·亚历山德罗芙娜问道。

‘Why grieve? The old man has grandchildren enough as it is. It was only a trouble. No working, nor nothing. Only a tie.’
‘为什么要悲伤？老人家已经有孙子了。这只是一个麻烦。没有工作，也没有什么。只有一条领带。

This answer had struck Darya Alexandrovna as revolting in spite of the good-natured and pleasing face of the young woman; but now she could not help recalling these words. In those cynical words there was indeed a grain of truth.
这个回答让达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜感到反感，尽管这位年轻女子的面容和蔼可亲，令人赏心悦目。可现在她却忍不住回想起这句话。这些愤世嫉俗的话确实有一定道理。

‘Yes, altogether,’ thought Darya Alexandrovna, looking back over her whole existence during those fifteen years of her married life, ‘pregnancy, sickness, mental incapacity, indifference to everything, and most of all—hideousness. Kitty, young and pretty as she is, even Kitty has lost her looks; and I when I’m with child become hideous, I know it. The birth, the agony, the hideous agonies, that last moment...then the nursing, the sleepless nights, the fearful pains....’
“是的，完全是这样，”达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜想道，她回顾了自己十五年婚姻生活中的全部经历，“怀孕、疾病、精神失常、对一切漠不关心，最重要的是——丑陋。”凯蒂虽然年轻漂亮，但连她的容貌都失去了；我知道，当我有了孩子的时候，我会变得很丑陋。出生、痛苦、可怕的痛苦、最后一刻……然后是哺乳、不眠之夜、可怕的疼痛……”

Darya Alexandrovna shuddered at the mere recollection of the pain from sore breasts which she had suffered with almost every child. ‘Then the children’s illnesses, that everlasting apprehension; then bringing them up; evil propensities’ (she thought of little Masha’s crime among the raspberries), ‘education, Latin—it’s all so incomprehensible and difficult. And on the top of it all, the death of these children.’ And there rose again before her imagination the cruel memory, that always tore her mother’s heart, of the death of her last little baby, who had died of croup; his funeral, the callous indifference of all at the little pink coffin, and her own torn heart, and her lonely anguish at the sight of the pale little brow with its projecting temples, and the open, wondering little mouth seen in the coffin at the moment when it was being covered with the little pink lid with a cross braided on it.
达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜一想起她几乎每个孩子都经历过的乳房酸痛，就浑身发抖。 “然后是孩子们的疾病，那种永远的忧虑；然后抚养他们；邪恶的倾向”（她想到了小玛莎在覆盆子中犯下的罪行），“教育，拉丁语——这一切都是如此难以理解和困难。最重要的是，这些孩子的死。”她的想象中又浮现出残酷的记忆，那总是让她母亲心碎的记忆，是她最后一个小婴儿的死，她死于哮吼；他的葬礼，所有人对粉红色小棺材的冷漠，还有她自己撕裂的心，还有她在看到棺材里那苍白的小额头和突出的鬓角以及张开的、惊奇的小嘴时感到孤独的痛苦。当它被上面有十字辫子的粉红色小盖子盖住的那一刻。

‘And all this, what’s it for? What is to come of it all? That I’m wasting my life, never having a moment’s peace, either with child, or nursing a child, forever irritable, peevish, wretched myself and worrying others, repulsive to my husband, while the children are growing up unhappy, badly educated, and penniless. Even now, if it weren’t for spending the summer at the Levins’, I don’t know how we should be managing to live. Of course Kostya and Kitty have so much tact that we don’t feel it; but it can’t go on. They’ll have children, they won’t be able to keep us; it’s a drag on them as it is. How is papa, who has hardly anything left for himself, to help us? So that I can’t even bring the children up by myself, and may find it hard with the help of other people, at the cost of humiliation. Why, even if we suppose the greatest good luck, that the children don’t die, and I bring them up somehow. At the very best they’ll simply be decent people. That’s all I can hope for. And to gain simply that—what agonies, what toil!... One’s whole life ruined!’ Again she recalled what the young peasant woman had said, and again she was revolted at the thought; but she could not help admitting that there was a grain of brutal truth in the words.
‘而这一切，到底是为了什么？这一切将会发生什么？我在浪费自己的生命，从未有过片刻的安宁，无论是带孩子还是养孩子，总是烦躁、暴躁、可怜自己、担心别人、厌恶我的丈夫，而孩子们却成长得不快乐、教育不好，并且身无分文。即使现在，如果不是在莱文家度过夏天，我也不知道我们该如何生活。当然，克斯特亚和基蒂非常机智，我们感觉不到；但它无法继续下去。他们会有孩子，但他们无法留住我们；这对他们来说是一种拖累。几乎一无所有的爸爸要如何帮助我们呢？以至于自己连孩子都养不起，只能靠别人的帮助，以受辱为代价。为什么，即使我们假设最大的运气，孩子们没有死，我以某种方式抚养他们。最好的情况下，他们只是正派的人。这就是我所能希望的一切。仅仅为了获得这个——多么痛苦，多么辛苦！……一个人的一生都毁了！”她再次想起年轻农妇所说的话，她再次对这个想法感到厌恶；但她不得不承认，这句话里有一丝残酷的事实。

‘Is it far now, Mihail?’ Darya Alexandrovna asked the counting house clerk, to turn her mind from thoughts that were frightening her.
“米哈伊尔，现在还远吗？”达里娅·亚历山德罗芙娜问账房职员，以转移她的注意力，摆脱那些让她害怕的想法。

‘From this village, they say, it’s five miles.’ The carriage drove along the village street and onto a bridge. On the bridge was a crowd of peasant women with coils of ties for the sheaves on their shoulders, gaily and noisily chattering. They stood still on the bridge, staring inquisitively at the carriage. All the faces turned to Darya Alexandrovna looked to her healthy and happy, making her envious of their enjoyment of life. ‘They’re all living, they’re all enjoying life,’ Darya Alexandrovna still mused when she had passed the peasant women and was driving uphill again at a trot, seated comfortably on the soft springs of the old carriage, ‘while I, let out, as it were from prison, from the world of worries that fret me to death, am only looking about me now for an instant. They all live; those peasant women and my sister Natalia and Varenka and Anna, whom I am going to see—all, but not I.
“他们说，距离这个村庄有五英里。”马车沿着村里的街道行驶，驶上一座桥。桥上有一群农妇，肩上挎着一圈捆捆捆的绳子，欢快而喧闹地闲聊着。他们站在桥上一动不动，好奇地看着马车。所有的脸都转向达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜，看上去她健康快乐，让她羡慕他们享受生活。 “她们都活着，她们都在享受生活，”达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜在经过农妇身边，舒适地坐在旧马车柔软的弹簧上，小跑着再次上山时，仍然沉思着，“而我，仿佛从监狱里，从让我烦恼得要死的忧虑世界中释放出来，我现在只是暂时看看自己。他们都活着；那些农妇和我的妹妹娜塔莉亚、瓦伦卡和安娜，我要去见她们——所有人，但不是我。

‘And they attack Anna. What for? am I any better? I have, anyway, a husband I love—not as I should like to love him, still I do love him, while Anna never loved hers. How is she to blame? She wants to live. God has put that in our hearts. Very likely I should have done the same. Even to this day I don’t feel sure I did right in listening to her at that terrible time when she came to me in Moscow. I ought then to have cast off my husband and have begun my life fresh. I might have loved and have been loved in reality. And is it any better as it is? I don’t respect him. He’s necessary to me,’ she thought about her husband, ‘and I put up with him. Is that any better? At that time I could still have been admired, I had beauty left me still,’ Darya Alexandrovna pursued her thoughts, and she would have liked to look at herself in the looking glass. She had a traveling looking glass in her handbag, and she wanted to take it out; but looking at the backs of the coachman and the swaying counting house clerk, she felt that she would be ashamed if either of them were to look round, and she did not take out the glass.
“他们攻击安娜。”做什么的？我好点了吗？无论如何，我有一个我爱的丈夫——虽然不是我应该爱的那样，但我仍然爱他，而安娜从来没有爱过她的丈夫。她又有何罪呢？她想活下去。神已经把它放在我们心里了。我很可能也应该这样做。直到今天，当她来莫斯科找我时，我仍然不确定在那个可怕的时刻听她说话是否正确。那时我应该抛弃我的丈夫，开始我的新生活。我可能在现实中爱过并被爱过。现状是否更好？我不尊重他。他对我来说是必要的，”她想到她的丈夫，“我忍受了他。这样好点了吗？那时我仍然可以被人欣赏，我仍然美丽，”达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜追寻着她的想法，她很想在镜子里看看自己。她的手提包里有一块旅行镜，她想把它拿出来。但看着车夫和摇摇晃晃的账房职员的背影，她觉得谁要是回头看，她都会感到羞愧，所以她没有把玻璃拿出来。

But without looking in the glass, she thought that even now it was not too late; and she thought of Sergey Ivanovitch, who was always particularly attentive to her, of Stiva’s good-hearted friend, Turovtsin, who had helped her nurse her children through the scarlatina, and was in love with her. And there was someone else, a quite young man, who—her husband had told her it as a joke—thought her more beautiful than either of her sisters. And the most passionate and impossible romances rose before Darya Alexandrovna’s imagination. ‘Anna did quite right, and certainly I shall never reproach her for it. She is happy, she makes another person happy, and she’s not broken down as I am, but most likely just as she always was, bright, clever, open to every impression,’ thought Darya Alexandrovna,—and a sly smile curved her lips, for, as she pondered on Anna’s love affair, Darya Alexandrovna constructed on parallel lines an almost identical love affair for herself, with an imaginary composite figure, the ideal man who was in love with her. She, like Anna, confessed the whole affair to her husband. And the amazement and perplexity of Stepan Arkadyevitch at this avowal made her smile.
但即使没有看镜子，她也认为现在还不算太晚；她想起了总是对她特别关心的谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇，想起了斯蒂瓦的好心朋友图罗夫钦，他在猩红热期间帮助她照顾孩子，并且爱上了她。还有另外一个人，一个相当年轻的男人，她的丈夫开玩笑地告诉她，他认为她比她的两个姐妹都漂亮。最热情、最不可能的浪漫故事在达里娅·亚历山德罗芙娜的想象中展开。 “安娜做得非常正确，我当然不会因此而责备她。她很快乐，她使另一个人快乐，而且她并没有像我一样崩溃，但很可能就像她一直那样，聪明，聪明，对任何印象都持开放态度，”达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜想道，嘴角露出狡猾的微笑。因为，当她思考安娜的爱情故事时，达里娅·亚历山德罗芙娜以平行线为自己构建了一场几乎相同的爱情故事，她有一个想象中的复合人物，一个爱她的理想男人。她和安娜一样，向她的丈夫坦白了整个事件。斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇对这个坦白表示惊讶和困惑，不禁微笑起来。

In such daydreams she reached the turning of the highroad that led to Vozdvizhenskoe.
在这样的白日梦中，她到达了通往沃兹德维任斯科耶的高速公路拐角处。

Chapter 17
第17章

The coachman pulled up his four horses and looked round to the right, to a field of rye, where some peasants were sitting on a cart. The counting house clerk was just going to jump down, but on second thoughts he shouted peremptorily to the peasants instead, and beckoned to them to come up. The wind, that seemed to blow as they drove, dropped when the carriage stood still; gadflies settled on the steaming horses that angrily shook them off. The metallic clank of a whetstone against a scythe, that came to them from the cart, ceased. One of the peasants got up and came towards the carriage.
车夫拉起四匹马，向右看了一眼，看到了一片黑麦田，车上坐着一些农民。计票员正要跳下去，转念一想，他却霸道地对着农民们喊道，示意他们上来。当他们开车时，风似乎在吹，当马车停下来时，风就停了。牛虻落在热气腾腾的马身上，马被愤怒地甩开。从马车上传来的磨刀石敲击镰刀的金属叮当声停止了。一名农民起身，朝马车走来。

‘Well, you are slow!’ the counting house clerk shouted angrily to the peasant who was stepping slowly with his bare feet over the ruts of the rough dry road. ‘Come along, do!’
“哎呀，你太慢了！”账房职员对光着脚在崎岖干燥的道路上的车辙上缓慢行走的农民愤怒地喊道。 “来吧，做吧！”

A curly-headed old man with a bit of bast tied round his hair, and his bent back dark with perspiration, came towards the carriage, quickening his steps, and took hold of the mud-guard with his sunburnt hand.
一个卷发老者，头发上扎着一根麻，弯着背，汗流浃背，加快了脚步，朝马车走来，用晒黑的手抓住了挡泥板。

‘Vozdvizhenskoe, the manor house? the count’s?’ he repeated; ‘go on to the end of this track. Then turn to the left. Straight along the avenue and you’ll come right upon it. But whom do you want? The count himself?’
“Vozdvizhenskoe，庄园别墅？ “伯爵的？”他重复道。 ‘继续走到这条路的尽头。然后向左转。沿着大道直走，您就会看到它。但你想要谁？伯爵本人？

‘Well, are they at home, my good man?’ Darya Alexandrovna said vaguely, not knowing how to ask about Anna, even of this peasant.
“那么，他们在家吗，我的好人？”达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜含糊地说，她不知道如何询问安娜的情况，甚至不知道如何询问这个农民。

‘At home for sure,’ said the peasant, shifting from one bare foot to the other, and leaving a distinct print of five toes and a heel in the dust. ‘Sure to be at home,’ he repeated, evidently eager to talk. ‘Only yesterday visitors arrived. There’s a sight of visitors come. What do you want?’ He turned round and called to a lad, who was shouting something to him from the cart. ‘Oh! They all rode by here not long since, to look at a reaping machine. They’ll be home by now. And who will you be belonging to?...’
“肯定是在家里，”农民说，从一只赤脚换到另一只，在灰尘中留下了五个脚趾和一个脚后跟的明显印记。 “肯定在家，”他重复道，显然很想说话。 “就在昨天，才有访客到来。可见有访客前来。你想要什么？”他转过身来，对一个小伙子喊道，那个小伙子正在车上对他喊着什么。 '哦！不久前，他们都骑着车路过这里，去看收割机。他们现在就到家了。而你又会属于谁呢？……”

‘We’ve come a long way,’ said the coachman, climbing onto the box. ‘So it’s not far?’
“我们已经走了很长一段路了，”车夫爬上箱子说道。 “这么说不远了？”

‘I tell you, it’s just here. As soon as you get out...’ he said, keeping hold all the while of the carriage.
‘我告诉你，它就在这里。你一出去……”他一边说，一边一直抓着马车。

A healthy-looking, broad-shouldered young fellow came up too.
一个看上去健康、肩膀宽阔的年轻人也走了过来。

‘What, is it laborers they want for the harvest?’ he asked.
“什么，他们想要的是收割庄稼的工人吗？”他问道。

‘I don’t know, my boy.’
“我不知道，我的孩子。”

‘So you keep to the left, and you’ll come right on it,’ said the peasant, unmistakably loth to let the travelers go, and eager to converse.
“所以你一直靠左边走，然后你就会从右边过来，”农民说道，他显然不愿意让旅行者走，并且渴望交谈。

The coachman started the horses, but they were only just turning off when the peasant shouted: ‘Stop! Hi, friend! Stop!’ called the two voices. The coachman stopped.
车夫催动马匹，刚要下车，农夫就喊道：“站住！”朋友你好！停下来！”两个声音喊道。车夫停了下来。

‘They’re coming! They’re yonder!’ shouted the peasant. ‘See what a turn-out!’ he said, pointing to four persons on horseback, and two in a char-a-banc, coming along the road.
'他们来了！他们在那边！”农民喊道。 “看看人数多多！”他指着沿路走来的四个骑马者和两个骑着叉车的人说道。

They were Vronsky with a jockey, Veslovsky and Anna on horseback, and Princess Varvara and Sviazhsky in the char-a-banc. They had gone out to look at the working of a new reaping machine.
他们是渥伦斯基和骑师，韦斯洛夫斯基和安娜骑在马背上，瓦尔瓦拉公主和斯维亚日斯基坐在马车上。他们出去观察一台新收割机的工作情况。

When the carriage stopped, the party on horseback were coming at a walking pace. Anna was in front beside Veslovsky. Anna, quietly walking her horse, a sturdy English cob with cropped mane and short tail, her beautiful head with her black hair straying loose under her high hat, her full shoulders, her slender waist in her black riding habit, and all the ease and grace of her deportment, impressed Dolly.
当马车停下来的时候，骑马的一行人正迈着步行的步伐走来。安娜在前面，韦斯洛夫斯基旁边。安娜静静地遛着她的马，她是一匹粗壮的英国雄马，短鬃毛和短尾巴，她美丽的头颅，黑发在高帽下散乱，她丰满的肩膀，她穿着黑色骑马服的细腰，以及所有的轻松和轻松。她优雅的举止给多莉留下了深刻的印象。

For the first minute it seemed to her unsuitable for Anna to be on horseback. The conception of riding on horseback for a lady was, in Darya Alexandrovna’s mind, associated with ideas of youthful flirtation and frivolity, which, in her opinion, was unbecoming in Anna’s position. But when she had scrutinized her, seeing her closer, she was at once reconciled to her riding. In spite of her elegance, everything was so simple, quiet, and dignified in the attitude, the dress and the movements of Anna, that nothing could have been more natural.
起初，她觉得安娜不适合骑马。在达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜看来，女士骑马的概念与年轻时的调情和轻浮有关，而在她看来，这在安娜的立场上是不合适的。但当她仔细端详她、近距离观察她时，她立刻就接受了自己的骑行。尽管她举止优雅，但安娜的态度、衣着和动作，一切都是那么简单、安静、端庄，再自然不过了。

Beside Anna, on a hot-looking gray cavalry horse, was Vassenka Veslovsky in his Scotch cap with floating ribbons, his stout legs stretched out in front, obviously pleased with his own appearance. Darya Alexandrovna could not suppress a good-humored smile as she recognized him. Behind rode Vronsky on a dark bay mare, obviously heated from galloping. He was holding her in, pulling at the reins.
安娜身边骑着一匹帅气的灰色骑兵，瓦森卡·韦斯洛夫斯基戴着一顶飘着丝带的苏格兰帽，粗壮的腿伸在前面，显然对自己的外表很满意。达里娅·亚历山德罗芙娜认出了他，忍不住露出了愉快的微笑。渥伦斯基骑在后面，骑着一匹深色的海湾母马，显然是因为奔驰而发热。他拉住她，拉着缰绳。

After him rode a little man in the dress of a jockey. Sviazhsky and Princess Varvara in a new char-a-banc with a big, raven-black trotting horse, overtook the party on horseback.
在他身后骑着一个穿着骑师服装的小个子男人。斯维亚日斯基和瓦尔瓦拉公主骑着一匹新的马车，骑着一匹乌黑的大马，骑着马超越了队伍。

Anna’s face suddenly beamed with a joyful smile at the instant when, in the little figure huddled in a corner of the old carriage, she recognized Dolly. She uttered a cry, started in the saddle, and set her horse into a gallop. On reaching the carriage she jumped off without assistance, and holding up her riding habit, she ran up to greet Dolly.
当安娜在旧马车角落里蜷缩的小身影里认出了多莉的那一刻，脸上突然绽放出喜悦的笑容。她叫了一声，跳上马鞍，策马疾驰。到达马车后，她在无人帮助的情况下跳下车，举起骑行服，跑上前去迎接多莉。

‘I thought it was you and dared not think it. How delightful! You can’t fancy how glad I am!’ she said, at one moment pressing her face against Dolly and kissing her, and at the next holding her off and examining her with a smile.
‘我以为是你，不敢想。多么令人愉快啊！你想象不到我有多高兴！”她说，一会儿把脸贴在多莉身上亲吻她，一会儿又把她推开，微笑着审视她。

‘Here’s a delightful surprise, Alexey!’ she said, looking round at Vronsky, who had dismounted, and was walking towards them.
“这是一个令人愉快的惊喜，阿列克谢！”她说着，回头看了一眼渥伦斯基，渥伦斯基已经下了马，正朝他们走来。

Vronsky, taking off his tall gray hat, went up to Dolly.
渥伦斯基摘下灰色高帽子，走到多莉面前。

‘You wouldn’t believe how glad we are to see you,’ he said, giving peculiar significance to the words, and showing his strong white teeth in a smile.
“你不会相信我们见到你有多高兴，”他说，这句话赋予了特殊的意义，并微笑着露出了他坚固的洁白牙齿。

Vassenka Veslovsky, without getting off his horse, took off his cap and greeted the visitor by gleefully waving the ribbons over his head.
瓦森卡·韦斯洛夫斯基没有下马，而是摘下了帽子，高兴地在头上挥舞着丝带迎接来访者。

‘That’s Princess Varvara,’ Anna said in reply to a glance of inquiry from Dolly as the char-a-banc drove up.
“那是瓦尔瓦拉公主，”当恰班克开过来时，安娜回答道，多莉投来询问的目光。

‘Ah!’ said Darya Alexandrovna, and unconsciously her face betrayed her dissatisfaction.
“啊！”达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜说道，她的脸上不自觉地露出了她的不满。

Princess Varvara was her husband’s aunt, and she had long known her, and did not respect her. She knew that Princess Varvara had passed her whole life toadying on her rich relations, but that she should now be sponging on Vronsky, a man who was nothing to her, mortified Dolly on account of her kinship with her husband. Anna noticed Dolly’s expression, and was disconcerted by it. She blushed, dropped her riding habit, and stumbled over it.
瓦尔瓦拉公主是她丈夫的姨妈，她早就认识她了，并不尊重她。她知道瓦尔瓦拉公主一生都在阿谀奉承她富有的亲戚，但现在她应该对渥伦斯基这个对她来说毫无意义的男人施以援手，这让多莉因为与丈夫的血缘关系而感到羞愧。安娜注意到多莉的表情，感到很不安。她脸红了，脱下骑行服，被它绊倒了。

Darya Alexandrovna went up to the char-a-banc and coldly greeted Princess Varvara. Sviazhsky too she knew. He inquired how his queer friend with the young wife was, and running his eyes over the ill-matched horses and the carriage with its patched mud-guards, proposed to the ladies that they should get into the char-a-banc.
达里娅·亚历山德罗芙娜走到餐桌前，冷冷地向瓦尔瓦拉公主打招呼。她也知道斯维亚日斯基。他询问他那位年轻妻子的古怪朋友怎么样，然后扫视了一下那些不相配的马匹和带有打补丁的挡泥板的马车，向女士们建议她们应该进入char-abanc。

‘And I’ll get into this vehicle,’ he said. ‘The horse is quiet, and the princess drives capitally.’
“我会坐进这辆车，”他说。 “马儿安静，公主驾驭。”

‘No, stay as you were,’ said Anna, coming up, ‘and we’ll go in the carriage,’ and taking Dolly’s arm, she drew her away.
“不，保持原样，”安娜走上前来，“我们坐马车去。”她拉着多莉的胳膊，把她拉走了。

Darya Alexandrovna’s eyes were fairly dazzled by the elegant carriage of a pattern she had never seen before, the splendid horses, and the elegant and gorgeous people surrounding her. But what struck her most of all was the change that had taken place in Anna, whom she knew so well and loved. Any other woman, a less close observer, not knowing Anna before, or not having thought as Darya Alexandrovna had been thinking on the road, would not have noticed anything special in Anna. But now Dolly was struck by that temporary beauty, which is only found in women during the moments of love, and which she saw now in Anna’s face. Everything in her face, the clearly marked dimples in her cheeks and chin, the line of her lips, the smile which, as it were, fluttered about her face, the brilliance of her eyes, the grace and rapidity of her movements, the fulness of the notes of her voice, even the manner in which, with a sort of angry friendliness, she answered Veslovsky when he asked permission to get on her cob, so as to teach it to gallop with the right leg foremost—it was all peculiarly fascinating, and it seemed as if she were herself aware of it, and rejoicing in it.
达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜的眼睛被她从未见过的优雅的仪态、华丽的马匹以及周围优雅而华丽的人们所迷惑。但最令她震惊的是安娜所发生的变化，她如此了解并深爱着她。任何其他女人，一个不太仔细的观察者，以前不认识安娜，或者没有像达里娅·亚历山德罗芙娜在路上所想的那样思考，不会注意到安娜有什么特别的地方。但现在多莉被那种短暂的美丽所震惊，这种美丽只有在爱情时刻才存在于女人身上，而她现在在安娜的脸上看到了这种美丽。她脸上的一切，她脸颊和下巴上明显的酒窝，她嘴唇的线条，她脸上飘扬的微笑，她眼睛的光芒，她动作的优雅和迅速，她的饱满她的声音的音符，甚至当韦斯洛夫斯基请求允许骑上她的玉米棒子时，她带着一种愤怒的友好回答的方式，以便教它以右腿在前奔跑——这一切都很奇特令人着迷，似乎她自己也意识到了这一点，并为此感到高兴。

When both the women were seated in the carriage, a sudden embarrassment came over both of them. Anna was disconcerted by the intent look of inquiry Dolly fixed upon her. Dolly was embarrassed because after Sviazhsky’s phrase about ‘this vehicle,’ she could not help feeling ashamed of the dirty old carriage in which Anna was sitting with her. The coachman Philip and the counting house clerk were experiencing the same sensation. The counting house clerk, to conceal his confusion, busied himself settling the ladies, but Philip the coachman became sullen, and was bracing himself not to be overawed in future by this external superiority. He smiled ironically, looking at the raven horse, and was already deciding in his own mind that this smart trotter in the char-a-banc was only good for promenade, and wouldn’t do thirty miles straight off in the heat.
当两女坐上马车后，两人顿时都尴尬起来。多莉用专注的询问目光注视着她，安娜感到很不安。多莉感到尴尬，因为在斯维亚日斯基说了“这辆车”之后，她不禁为安娜和她坐在那辆肮脏的旧马车上感到羞愧。车夫菲利普和会计室职员也有同样的感觉。账房职员为了掩饰自己的困惑，忙着安顿女士们，但马车夫菲利普却变得闷闷不乐，并做好准备，以免将来被这种外在的优越感吓倒。他讽刺地笑了笑，看着那匹乌鸦马，心里已经认定这匹聪明的小跑马只适合散步，在炎热的天气里不可能直接跑三十英里。

The peasants had all got up from the cart and were inquisitively and mirthfully staring at the meeting of the friends, making their comments on it.
农民们都从车上站起来，好奇而兴致勃勃地注视着朋友们的聚会，发表着自己的看法。

‘They’re pleased, too; haven’t seen each other for a long while,’ said the curly-headed old man with the bast round his hair.
“他们也很高兴； “好久不见了。”头发上缠着麻花的卷发老者说道。

‘I say, Uncle Gerasim, if we could take that raven horse now, to cart the corn, that ‘ud be quick work!’
“我说，格拉西姆叔叔，如果我们现在能骑着那匹乌鸦马去运玉米，那‘会很快的！’”

‘Look-ee! Is that a woman in breeches?’ said one of them, pointing to Vassenka Veslovsky sitting in a side saddle.
‘看——看！那是一个穿马裤的女人吗？”其中一个人指着坐在侧马鞍上的瓦森卡·韦斯洛夫斯基说道。

‘Nay, a man! See how smartly he’s going it!’
‘不，一个男人！看看他做得多么聪明！

‘Eh, lads! seems we’re not going to sleep, then?’
‘呃，小伙子们！看来我们不打算睡觉了？

‘What chance of sleep today!’ said the old man, with a sidelong look at the sun. ‘Midday’s past, look-ee! Get your hooks, and come along!’
“今天睡得真好啊！”老人斜眼看着太阳说道。 ‘中午过去了，看啊！拿起你的钩子，一起来吧！

Chapter 18
第18章

Anna looked at Dolly’s thin, care-worn face, with its wrinkles filled with dust from the road, and she was on the point of saying what she was thinking, that is, that Dolly had got thinner. But, conscious that she herself had grown handsomer, and that Dolly’s eyes were telling her so, she sighed and began to speak about herself.
安娜看着多莉那张消瘦而饱经沧桑的脸，皱纹上布满了路上的灰尘，她正要说出自己的想法，那就是，多莉变瘦了。但是，意识到自己变得更英俊了，而且多莉的眼睛也在告诉她这一点，她叹了口气，开始谈论自己。

‘You are looking at me,’ she said, ‘and wondering how I can be happy in my position? Well! it’s shameful to confess, but I... I’m inexcusably happy. Something magical has happened to me, like a dream, when you’re frightened, panic-stricken, and all of a sudden you wake up and all the horrors are no more. I have waked up. I have lived through the misery, the dread, and now for a long while past, especially since we’ve been here, I’ve been so happy!...’ she said, with a timid smile of inquiry looking at Dolly.
“你看着我，”她说，“想知道我怎样才能在我的位置上感到快乐？出色地！坦白是可耻的，但我……我实在是太高兴了。一些神奇的事情发生在我身上，就像一场梦，当你害怕、惊慌失措时，突然你醒了，所有的恐怖都消失了。我已经醒了。我经历了痛苦、恐惧，现在已经过去很长一段时间了，尤其是自从我们来到这里以来，我一直很高兴！……”她说道，带着询问的胆怯微笑看着多莉。

‘How glad I am!’ said Dolly smiling, involuntarily speaking more coldly than she wanted to. ‘I’m very glad for you. Why haven’t you written to me?’
“我真高兴！”多莉微笑着说道，语气不由自主地比她想要的更加冷淡。 ‘我为你感到非常高兴。你为什么不写信给我？

‘Why?... Because I hadn’t the courage.... You forget my position...’
“为什么？……因为我没有勇气……你忘记了我的立场……”

‘To me? Hadn’t the courage? If you knew how I...I look at...’
'大部头书？没有勇气吗？如果你知道我……我怎么看……”

Darya Alexandrovna wanted to express her thoughts of the morning, but for some reason it seemed to her now out of place to do so.
达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜想表达她早上的想法，但出于某种原因，她现在似乎不适合这样做。

‘But of that we’ll talk later. What’s this, what are all these buildings?’ she asked, wanting to change the conversation and pointing to the red and green roofs that came into view behind the green hedges of acacia and lilac. ‘Quite a little town.’
“不过这个我们稍后再谈。”这是什么，这些建筑物是什么？”她问道，想要改变话题，指着金合欢和紫丁香绿色树篱后面映入眼帘的红色和绿色屋顶。 “真是一个小镇。”

But Anna did not answer.
但安娜没有回答。

‘No, no! How do you look at my position, what do you think of it?’ she asked.
'不，不！你如何看待我的立场？你觉得怎么样？”她问道。

‘I consider...’ Darya Alexandrovna was beginning, but at that instant Vassenka Veslovsky, having brought the cob to gallop with the right leg foremost, galloped past them, bumping heavily up and down in his short jacket on the chamois leather of the side saddle. ‘He’s doing it, Anna Arkadyevna!’ he shouted.
“我认为……”达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜正要开口，但就在这时，瓦森卡·韦斯洛夫斯基带着雄天鹅策马驰骋，右腿在前，从他们身边飞驰而过，穿着短夹克，在麂皮上重重地上下颠簸。侧鞍。 “他正在这么做，安娜·阿尔卡季耶夫娜！”他喊道。

Anna did not even glance at him; but again it seemed to Darya Alexandrovna out of place to enter upon such a long conversation in the carriage, and so she cut short her thought.
安娜连看都没看他一眼；但达里娅·亚历山德罗芙娜又觉得在马车上进行这么长的谈话不太合适，于是她打断了自己的想法。

‘I don’t think anything,’ she said, ‘but I always loved you, and if one loves anyone, one loves the whole person, just as they are and not as one would like them to be....’
“我不认为有什么，”她说，“但我一直爱你，如果一个人爱任何人，那么他就会爱整个人，就像他们本来的样子，而不是人们希望的那样……”

Anna, taking her eyes off her friend’s face and dropping her eyelids (this was a new habit Dolly had not seen in her before), pondered, trying to penetrate the full significance of the words. And obviously interpreting them as she would have wished, she glanced at Dolly.
安娜把目光从朋友的脸上移开，垂下眼睑（这是多莉以前从未在她身上见过的新习惯），沉思着，试图理解这句话的全部含义。显然，她按照自己的意愿解释了它们，她看了多莉一眼。

‘If you had any sins,’ she said, ‘they would all be forgiven you for your coming to see me and these words.’
“如果你有任何罪过，”她说，“你来看我和说这些话，他们都会得到宽恕。”

And Dolly saw that tears stood in her eyes. She pressed Anna’s hand in silence.
多莉看到她的眼里充满了泪水。她默默地握住安娜的手。

‘Well, what are these buildings? How many there are of them!’ After a moment’s silence she repeated her question.
“那么，这些建筑物是什么？他们有多少人！”沉默了一会儿，她又重复了一遍她的问题。

‘These are the servants’ houses, barns, and stables,’ answered Anna. ‘And there the park begins. It had all gone to ruin, but Alexey had everything renewed. He is very fond of this place, and, what I never expected, he has become intensely interested in looking after it. But his is such a rich nature! Whatever he takes up, he does splendidly. So far from being bored by it, he works with passionate interest. He—with his temperament as I know it—he has become careful and businesslike, a first-rate manager, he positively reckons every penny in his management of the land. But only in that. When it’s a question of tens of thousands, he doesn’t think of money.’ She spoke with that gleefully sly smile with which women often talk of the secret characteristics only known to them—of those they love. ‘Do you see that big building? that’s the new hospital. I believe it will cost over a hundred thousand; that’s his hobby just now. And do you know how it all came about? The peasants asked him for some meadowland, I think it was, at a cheaper rate, and he refused, and I accused him of being miserly. Of course it was not really because of that, but everything together, he began this hospital to prove, do you see, that he was not miserly about money. C’est une petitesse, if you like, but I love him all the more for it. And now you’ll see the house in a moment. It was his grandfather’s house, and he has had nothing changed outside.’
“这些是仆人的房子、谷仓和马厩，”安娜回答道。 “公园就从这里开始了。一切都毁了，但阿列克谢却让一切焕然一新。他非常喜欢这个地方，而且，令我没想到的是，他对照顾这个地方产生了浓厚的兴趣。但他的本性却是如此丰富！无论他从事什么工作，他都做得非常出色。到目前为止，他并没有对此感到无聊，而是充满热情地工作。他——以我所知道的他的气质——变得谨慎而务实，是一位一流的经理，他在管理土地时积极地计算每一分钱。但仅限于此。当涉及到数以万计的问题时，他不会想到金钱。”她带着一种愉快而狡猾的微笑说话，就像女人在谈论只有她们自己——她们所爱的人——才知道的秘密特征时所用的那样。 ‘你看到那座大建筑了吗？那是新医院。我相信要花费十万以上；那是他现在的爱好。你知道这一切是如何发生的吗？农民们向他索要一些草地，我想是的，价格更便宜，但他拒绝了，我指责他吝啬。当然，并不是真的因为这个，而是所有事情加在一起，他创办这家医院是为了证明，你看，他并不吝啬钱。如果你愿意的话，这是小事，但我因此更加爱他。现在你很快就会看到房子。那是他祖父的房子，外面没有任何变化。”

‘How beautiful!’ said Dolly, looking with involuntary admiration at the handsome house with columns, standing out among the different-colored greens of the old trees in the garden.
“多漂亮啊！”多莉不由自主地钦佩地看着这座漂亮的柱子房子，房子矗立在花园里不同颜色的老树丛中。

‘Isn’t it fine? And from the house, from the top, the view is wonderful.’
‘这不是很好吗？从房子的顶部看，景色很美。”

They drove into a courtyard strewn with gravel and bright with flowers, in which two laborers were at work putting an edging of stones round the light mould of a flower bed, and drew up in a covered entry.
他们开车进了一个铺满碎石、开满鲜花的庭院，里面有两个工人正在把石头镶在花坛的浅模上，然后停在一个有顶棚的入口处。

‘Ah, they’re here already!’ said Anna, looking at the saddle horses, which were just being led away from the steps. ‘It is a nice horse, isn’t it? It’s my cob; my favorite. Lead him here and bring me some sugar. Where is the count?’ she inquired of two smart footmen who darted out. ‘Ah, there he is!’ she said, seeing Vronsky coming to meet her with Veslovsky.
“啊，他们已经来了！”安娜看着刚从台阶上牵走的马匹说道。 ‘这是一匹好马，不是吗？这是我的玉米棒子；我最喜欢的。带他来这里，给我带点糖来。伯爵在哪儿？”她向两个冲出来的聪明的仆人问道。 “啊，他来了！”她看到渥伦斯基和韦斯洛夫斯基一起来迎接她，说道。

‘Where are you going to put the princess?’ said Vronsky in French, addressing Anna, and without waiting for a reply, he once more greeted Darya Alexandrovna, and this time he kissed her hand. ‘I think the big balcony room.’
“你要把公主安置在哪里？”渥伦斯基用法语对安娜说道，不等安娜回答，他再次向达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜打招呼，这次他吻了她的手。 “我觉得是大阳台房。”

‘Oh, no, that’s too far off! Better in the corner room, we shall see each other more. Come, let’s go up,’ said Anna, as she gave her favorite horse the sugar the footman had brought her.
‘哦，不，那太遥远了！最好还是在角落的房间里，这样我们就能更频繁地见面。来吧，我们上去吧。”安娜边说边把仆人给她带来的糖递给她最喜欢的马。

‘Et vous oubliez votre devoir,’ she said to Veslovsky, who came out too on the steps.
“Et vous oubliez votre devoir，”她对韦斯洛夫斯基说，韦斯洛夫斯基也走上台阶。

‘Pardon, j’en ai tout plein les poches,’ he answered, smiling, putting his fingers in his waistcoat pocket.
“请原谅，我爱你，”他微笑着回答，把手指插进背心口袋里。

‘Mais vous venez trop tard,’ she said, rubbing her handkerchief on her hand, which the horse had made wet in taking the sugar.
“Mais vous venez trop tard，”她一边说，一边用手帕擦手，马在吃糖时把手帕弄湿了。

Anna turned to Dolly. ‘You can stay some time? For one day only? That’s impossible!’
安娜转向多莉。 ‘你可以停留一段时间吗？只限一天吗？这不可能！'

‘I promised to be back, and the children...’ said Dolly, feeling embarrassed both because she had to get her bag out of the carriage, and because she knew her face must be covered with dust.
“我答应会回来的，还有孩子们……”多莉说，她感到很尴尬，因为她必须把包从车厢里拿出来，而且她知道自己的脸上肯定沾满了灰尘。

‘No, Dolly, darling!... Well, we’ll see. Come along, come along!’ and Anna led Dolly to her room.
“不，多莉，亲爱的！……好吧，我们拭目以待。”来吧，来吧！”安娜领着多莉去了她的房间。

That room was not the smart guest chamber Vronsky had suggested, but the one of which Anna had said that Dolly would excuse it. And this room, for which excuse was needed, was more full of luxury than any in which Dolly had ever stayed, a luxury that reminded her of the best hotels abroad.
那个房间不是渥伦斯基建议的漂亮客房，而是安娜说多莉会原谅的那个房间。而这个需要借口的房间比多莉住过的任何房间都更加奢华，这种奢华让她想起国外最好的旅馆。

‘Well, darling, how happy I am!’ Anna said, sitting down in her riding habit for a moment beside Dolly. ‘Tell me about all of you. Stiva I had only a glimpse of, and he cannot tell one about the children. How is my favorite, Tanya? Quite a big girl, I expect?’
“好吧，亲爱的，我多么高兴啊！”安娜穿着骑行服在多莉身边坐了一会儿，说道。 ‘告诉我关于你们所有人的事。我只见过斯蒂瓦一眼，他无法告诉任何人关于孩子们的事情。我最喜欢的怎么样，塔尼娅？我想她是个大姑娘了？

‘Yes, she’s very tall,’ Darya Alexandrovna answered shortly, surprised herself that she should respond so coolly about her children. ‘We are having a delightful stay at the Levins’,’ she added.
“是的，她很高。”达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜简短地回答道，她自己都惊讶于自己竟然对自己的孩子反应如此冷淡。 “我们在莱文斯酒店度过了愉快的时光”，她补充道。

‘Oh, if I had known,’ said Anna, ‘that you do not despise me!... You might have all come to us. Stiva’s an old friend and a great friend of Alexey’s, you know,’ she added, and suddenly she blushed.
“哦，如果我早知道，”安娜说，“你不会鄙视我！……你们可能都会来找我们了。”你知道，斯蒂瓦是阿列克谢的老朋友和好朋友，”她补充道，突然脸红了。

‘Yes, but we are all...’ Dolly answered in confusion.
“是的，但我们都是……”多莉困惑地回答。

‘But in my delight I’m talking nonsense. The one thing, darling, is that I am so glad to have you!’ said Anna, kissing her again. ‘You haven’t told me yet how and what you think about me, and I keep wanting to know. But I’m glad you will see me as I am. The chief thing I shouldn’t like would be for people to imagine I want to prove anything. I don’t want to prove anything; I merely want to live, to do no one harm but myself. I have the right to do that, haven’t I? But it is a big subject, and we’ll talk over everything properly later. Now I’ll go and dress and send a maid to you.’
‘但我很高兴我在胡说八道。 “一件事，亲爱的，我很高兴有你！”安娜说着，再次亲吻了她。 “你还没有告诉我你对我的看法和看法，我一直想知道。但我很高兴你能看到真实的我。我最不喜欢的就是人们认为我想证明什么。我不想证明什么；我只想活下去，除了我自己，不伤害任何人。我有权这样做，不是吗？但这是一个大话题，我们稍后再详细讨论。现在我去穿好衣服，派个女仆去见你。”

Chapter 19
第19章

Left alone, Darya Alexandrovna, with a good housewife’s eye, scanned her room. All she had seen in entering the house and walking through it, and all she saw now in her room, gave her an impression of wealth and sumptuousness and of that modern European luxury of which she had only read in English novels, but had never seen in Russia and in the country. Everything was new from the new French hangings on the walls to the carpet which covered the whole floor. The bed had a spring mattress, and a special sort of bolster and silk pillowcases on the little pillows. The marble washstand, the dressing table, the little sofa, the tables, the bronze clock on the chimney piece, the window curtains, and the portieres were all new and expensive.
达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜独自一人，以家庭主妇的眼光扫视着她的房间。她进入房子、走过房子时所看到的一切，以及现在在房间里所看到的一切，都给她一种财富和奢华的印象，以及她只在英国小说中读过但从未见过的现代欧洲奢华的印象。在俄罗斯和国内。从墙上新的法式挂饰到覆盖整个地板的地毯，一切都是新的。床上有一个弹簧床垫，小枕头上有一种特殊的长垫和丝绸枕套。大理石盥洗台、梳妆台、小沙发、桌子、烟囱上的青铜钟、窗帘和门帘都是新的，而且价格昂贵。

The smart maid, who came in to offer her services, with her hair done up high, and a gown more fashionable than Dolly’s, was as new and expensive as the whole room. Darya Alexandrovna liked her neatness, her deferential and obliging manners, but she felt ill at ease with her. She felt ashamed of her seeing the patched dressing jacket that had unluckily been packed by mistake for her. She was ashamed of the very patches and darned places of which she had been so proud at home. At home it had been so clear that for six dressing jackets there would be needed twenty-four yards of nainsook at sixteen pence the yard, which was a matter of thirty shillings besides the cutting-out and making, and these thirty shillings had been saved. But before the maid she felt, if not exactly ashamed, at least uncomfortable.
进来提供服务的聪明女仆，头发盘得高高的，穿着比多莉更时尚的礼服，和整个房间一样新、昂贵。达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜喜欢她的整洁、她恭敬而殷勤的举止，但她对她感到不自在。看到那件不幸被误给她打包的打补丁的睡衣，她感到羞愧。她对那些她在家里引以为豪的斑块和肮脏的地方感到羞愧。在家里，很明显，六件晨衣需要二十四码的奈苏克，每码十六便士，除了剪裁和制作之外，这相当于三十先令，而这三十先令已经节省下来了。 。但在女仆面前，她即使不感到羞耻，至少也感到不舒服。

Darya Alexandrovna had a great sense of relief when Annushka, whom she had known for years, walked in. The smart maid was sent for to go to her mistress, and Annushka remained with Darya Alexandrovna.
当达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜认识多年的安努什卡走进来时，她感到如释重负。这位聪明的女仆被派去见她的女主人，安努什卡留在了达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜身边。

Annushka was obviously much pleased at that lady’s arrival, and began to chatter away without a pause. Dolly observed that she was longing to express her opinion in regard to her mistress’s position, especially as to the love and devotion of the count to Anna Arkadyevna, but Dolly carefully interrupted her whenever she began to speak about this.
安努什卡显然对这位女士的到来感到非常高兴，并开始不停地喋喋不休。多莉观察到，她很想表达自己对女主人地位的看法，尤其是伯爵对安娜·阿尔卡季耶夫娜的爱和忠诚，但每当她开始谈论这个问题时，多莉就小心翼翼地打断她。

‘I grew up with Anna Arkadyevna; my lady’s dearer to me than anything. Well, it’s not for us to judge. And, to be sure, there seems so much love...’
“我和安娜·阿尔卡季耶芙娜一起长大；我的夫人对我来说比什么都重要。好吧，这不是由我们来判断的。而且，可以肯定的是，似乎有如此多的爱……”

‘Kindly pour out the water for me to wash now, please,’ Darya Alexandrovna cut her short.
“现在请把水倒出来让我洗，”达里娅·亚历山德罗芙娜打断了她的话。

‘Certainly. We’ve two women kept specially for washing small things, but most of the linen’s done by machinery. The count goes into everything himself. Ah, what a husband!...’
'当然。我们有两个专门洗小东西的女人，但大部分亚麻布都是用机器洗的。伯爵亲自处理所有事情。啊，真是个丈夫啊！……”

Dolly was glad when Anna came in, and by her entrance put a stop to Annushka’s gossip.
安娜进来时，多莉很高兴，她一进来就制止了安努舒卡的八卦。

Anna had put on a very simple batiste gown. Dolly scrutinized that simple gown attentively. She knew what it meant, and the price at which such simplicity was obtained.
安娜穿上了一件非常简单的麻布长袍。多莉仔细地审视着那件简单的礼服。她知道这意味着什么，也知道获得这种简单性所付出的代价。

‘An old friend,’ said Anna of Annushka.
“一位老朋友，”安努什卡的安娜说道。

Anna was not embarrassed now. She was perfectly composed and at ease. Dolly saw that she had now completely recovered from the impression her arrival had made on her, and had assumed that superficial, careless tone which, as it were, closed the door on that compartment in which her deeper feelings and ideas were kept.
安娜现在并不感到尴尬。她表现得非常镇静、轻松。多莉发现她现在已经完全从她的到来给她留下的印象中恢复过来，并采取了肤浅、漫不经心的语气，这似乎关闭了她存放更深层感情和想法的隔间的门。

‘Well, Anna, and how is your little girl?’ asked Dolly.
“嗯，安娜，你的小女儿怎么样了？”多莉问道。

‘Annie?’ (This was what she called her little daughter Anna.) ‘Very well. She has got on wonderfully. Would you like to see her? Come, I’ll show her to you. We had a terrible bother,’ she began telling her, ‘over nurses. We had an Italian wet-nurse. A good creature, but so stupid! We wanted to get rid of her, but the baby is so used to her that we’ve gone on keeping her still.’
“安妮？”（她这样称呼她的小女儿安娜。）“很好。”她相处得很好。你想见她吗？来吧，我带她给你看看。她开始告诉她，“因为护士，我们遇到了很大的麻烦。”我们有一位意大利奶妈。是个好人，但是太蠢了！我们想摆脱她，但婴儿已经习惯了她，所以我们继续让她保持静止。

‘But how have you managed?...’ Dolly was beginning a question as to what name the little girl would have; but noticing a sudden frown on Anna’s face, she changed the drift of her question.
“但是你是怎么做到的呢？……”多莉开始问这个小女孩该叫什么名字；但注意到安娜脸上突然皱起眉头，她改变了问题的主旨。

‘How did you manage? have you weaned her yet?’
‘你是怎么做到的？你给她断奶了吗？

But Anna had understood.
但安娜已经明白了。

‘You didn’t mean to ask that? You meant to ask about her surname. Yes? That worries Alexey. She has no name—that is, she’s a Karenina,’ said Anna, dropping her eyelids till nothing could be seen but the eyelashes meeting. ‘But we’ll talk about all that later,’ her face suddenly brightening. ‘Come, I’ll show you her. Elle est tres gentille. She crawls now.’
「你不是故意问这个的吧？你是想问她姓什么。是的？这让阿列克谢很担心。她没有名字——也就是说，她是卡列尼娜。”安娜说着，垂下了眼睑，直到除了睫毛交汇之外什么也看不见。 “但我们稍后再讨论这一切，”她的脸突然变得明亮起来。 ‘来吧，我带你去看看她。 Elle est tres gentille。她现在会爬了。

In the nursery the luxury which had impressed Dolly in the whole house struck her still more. There were little go-carts ordered from England, and appliances for learning to walk, and a sofa after the fashion of a billiard table, purposely constructed for crawling, and swings and baths, all of special pattern, and modern. They were all English, solid, and of good make, and obviously very expensive. The room was large, and very light and lofty.
托儿所里的奢华让多莉在整个房子里留下了深刻的印象，这让她更加震惊。里面有从英国订购的小卡丁车、学走路的器具、专为爬行而设计的台球桌式沙发、秋千和浴缸，所有这些都具有特殊的图案和现代感。它们都是英国货，坚固，做工精良，而且显然非常昂贵。房间很大，非常明亮，而且很高。

When they went in, the baby, with nothing on but her little smock, was sitting in a little elbow chair at the table, having her dinner of broth, which she was spilling all over her little chest. The baby was being fed, and the Russian nursery maid was evidently sharing her meal. Neither the wet-nurse nor the head nurse were there; they were in the next room, from which came the sound of their conversation in the queer French which was their only means of communication.
当他们进去时，婴儿除了她的小罩衫外什么也没穿，正坐在桌边的一把小肘椅上，吃着晚餐的肉汤，肉汤洒满了她的小胸口。婴儿正在被喂食，俄罗斯保姆显然正在分享她的食物。奶妈和护士长都不在。他们在隔壁房间，从那里传来他们用奇怪的法语交谈的声音，这是他们唯一的交流方式。

Hearing Anna’s voice, a smart, tall, English nurse with a disagreeable face and a dissolute expression walked in at the door, hurriedly shaking her fair curls, and immediately began to defend herself though Anna had not found fault with her. At every word Anna said, the English nurse said hurriedly several times, ‘Yes, my lady.’
听到安娜的声音，一位精明高挑的英国护士，一脸不善，神色放荡地从门口走了进来，连忙甩了甩自己白皙的卷发，立刻开始为自己辩解，尽管安娜并没有找她的茬。安娜每说一个字，英国护士就连忙说好几次：“是的，女士。”

The rosy baby with her black eyebrows and hair, her sturdy red little body with tight goose-flesh skin, delighted Darya Alexandrovna in spite of the cross expression with which she stared at the stranger. She positively envied the baby’s healthy appearance. She was delighted, too, at the baby’s crawling. Not one of her own children had crawled like that. When the baby was put on the carpet and its little dress tucked up behind, it was wonderfully charming. Looking round like some little wild animal at the grown-up big people with her bright black eyes, she smiled, unmistakably pleased at their admiring her, and holding her legs sideways, she pressed vigorously on her arms, and rapidly drew her whole back up after, and then made another step forward with her little arms.
玫瑰色的婴儿有着黑色的眉毛和头发，她那健壮的红色小身体和紧致的鸡皮肉般的皮肤，尽管达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜用一种恼怒的表情盯着这个陌生人，但她还是很高兴。她非常羡慕孩子健康的外表。她也对婴儿的爬行感到高兴。她自己的孩子中没有一个像这样爬过。当婴儿被放在地毯上，小裙子被塞到后面时，显得非常迷人。她像小野兽一样，用明亮的黑眼睛环视着那些长大的大人们，微笑着，显然对他们的欣赏感到高兴，她侧着双腿，用力压着手臂，迅速将整个后背拉了起来。说完，她的小手臂又向前迈出了一步。

But the whole atmosphere of the nursery, and especially the English nurse, Darya Alexandrovna did not like at all. It was only on the supposition that no good nurse would have entered so irregular a household as Anna’s that Darya Alexandrovna could explain to herself how Anna with her insight into people could take such an unprepossessing, disreputable-looking woman as nurse to her child.
但托儿所的整个气氛，尤其是英国护士达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜根本不喜欢。只有假设没有一个好护士会进入像安娜这样不正规的家庭，达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜才能向自己解释，安娜凭借她对人的洞察力，如何能把这样一个不讨人喜欢、相貌不光彩的女人当作她孩子的护士。

Besides, from a few words that were dropped, Darya Alexandrovna saw at once that Anna, the two nurses, and the child had no common existence, and that the mother’s visit was something exceptional. Anna wanted to get the baby her plaything, and could not find it.
此外，从落下的几句话中，达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜立刻看出安娜、两个护士和孩子并不存在共同的存在，母亲的来访是一件特殊的事情。安娜想要给孩子拿她的玩具，但找不到。

Most amazing of all was the fact that on being asked how many teeth the baby had, Anna answered wrong, and knew nothing about the two last teeth.
最令人惊奇的是，当被问及婴儿有多少颗牙齿时，安娜回答错误，并且对最后两颗牙齿一无所知。

‘I sometimes feel sorry I’m so superfluous here,’ said Anna, going out of the nursery and holding up her skirt so as to escape the plaything standing in the doorway. ‘It was very different with my first child.’
“有时我会感到抱歉，我在这里太多余了。”安娜一边说，一边走出育婴室，撩起裙子，以躲避站在门口的玩具。 “我的第一个孩子的情况非常不同。”

‘I expected it to be the other way,’ said Darya Alexandrovna shyly.
“我预计情况会是相反的，”达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜害羞地说。

‘Oh, no! By the way, do you know I saw Seryozha?’ said Anna, screwing up her eyes, as though looking at something far away. ‘But we’ll talk about that later. You wouldn’t believe it, I’m like a hungry beggar woman when a full dinner is set before her, and she does not know what to begin on first. The dinner is you, and the talks I have before me with you, which I could never have with anyone else; and I don’t know which subject to begin upon first. Mais je ne vous ferai grace de rien. I must have everything out with you.’
'不好了！对了，你知道我看见了谢廖扎吗？”安娜眯起眼睛说道，仿佛在看远处的什么东西。 “但我们稍后再讨论这个。你可能不会相信，我就像一个饥饿的乞丐，当丰盛的晚餐摆在她面前时，她不知道该先开始做什么。晚餐就是你，我和你进行的谈话是我和其他人永远不可能进行的；我不知道该先从哪个主题开始。 Mais je ne vous ferai Grace de rien。我必须和你一起解决所有问题。

‘Oh, I ought to give you a sketch of the company you will meet with us,’ she went on. ‘I’ll begin with the ladies. Princess Varvara—you know her, and I know your opinion and Stiva’s about her. Stiva says the whole aim of her existence is to prove her superiority over Auntie Katerina Pavlovna: that’s all true; but she’s a good-natured woman, and I am so grateful to her. In Petersburg there was a moment when a chaperon was absolutely essential for me. Then she turned up. But really she is goodnatured. She did a great deal to alleviate my position. I see you don’t understand all the difficulty of my position...there in Petersburg,’ she added. ‘Here I’m perfectly at ease and happy. Well, of that later on, though. Then Sviazhsky—he’s the marshal of the district, and he’s a very good sort of a man, but he wants to get something out of Alexey. You understand, with his property, now that we are settled in the country, Alexey can exercise great influence. Then there’s Tushkevitch—you have seen him, you know—Betsy’s admirer. Now he’s been thrown over and he’s come to see us. As Alexey says, he’s one of those people who are very pleasant if one accepts them for what they try to appear to be, et puis il est comme il faut, as Princess Varvara says. Then Veslovsky...you know him. A very nice boy,’ she said, and a sly smile curved her lips. ‘What’s this wild story about him and the Levins? Veslovsky told Alexey about it, and we don’t believe it. Il est tres gentil et naif,’ she said again with the same smile. ‘Men need occupation, and Alexey needs a circle, so I value all these people. We have to have the house lively and gay, so that Alexey may not long for any novelty. Then you’ll see the steward—a German, a very good fellow, and he understands his work. Alexey has a very high opinion of him. Then the doctor, a young man, not quite a Nihilist perhaps, but you know, eats with his knife...but a very good doctor. Then the architect.... Une petite cour!’
“哦，我应该给你一份你将与我们会面的公司的草图，”她继续说道。 “我将从女士们开始。瓦尔瓦拉公主——你认识她，我也知道你和斯蒂瓦对她的看法。斯蒂瓦说，她存在的全部目的就是证明她比卡特琳娜·帕夫洛夫娜姨妈优越：这都是事实；但事实并非如此。但她是一个心地善良的女人，我很感激她。在彼得堡，有一段时间，监护人对我来说是绝对必要的。然后她出现了。但其实她脾气很好。她为减轻我的处境做了很多事情。我发现你不理解我在彼得堡的处境的所有困难，”她补充道。 “在这里我感到非常轻松和快乐。好吧，不过稍后再说。然后是斯维亚日斯基——他是该地区的元帅，他是一个非常好的人，但他想从阿列克谢那里得到一些东西。你知道，有了他的财产，现在我们在乡下定居了，阿列克谢可以发挥很大的影响力。然后是图什克维奇——你见过他，你知道——贝特西的崇拜者。现在他被抛弃了，他来看我们了。正如阿列克谢所说，他是那些非常令人愉快的人之一，如果人们接受他们试图表现出来的样子，et puis il est comme il faut，正如瓦尔瓦拉公主所说。那么维斯洛夫斯基……你认识他。一个非常好的男孩，”她说道，嘴角露出一丝狡猾的微笑。 “关于他和莱文一家的疯狂故事是什么？维斯洛夫斯基告诉阿列克谢这件事，但我们不相信。 “Il est tres gentil et naif”，她带着同样的微笑又说道。 “男人需要职业，阿列克谢需要一个圈子，所以我重视所有这些人。我们必须让房子充满活力和欢乐，这样阿列克谢就不会渴望任何新奇事物。然后你会看到管家——一个德国人，一个非常好的小伙子，他了解他的工作。 阿列克谢对他评价很高。然后医生，一个年轻人，也许不完全是一个虚无主义者，但你知道，用刀吃饭……但是一个非常好的医生。然后建筑师...... Une petite cour！’

Chapter 20
第20章

‘Here’s Dolly for you, princess, you were so anxious to see her,’ said Anna, coming out with Darya Alexandrovna onto the stone terrace where Princess Varvara was sitting in the shade at an embroidery frame, working at a cover for Count Alexey Kirillovitch’s easy chair. ‘She says she doesn’t want anything before dinner, but please order some lunch for her, and I’ll go and look for Alexey and bring them all in.’
“这是多莉给你的，公主，你太想见到她了，”安娜说着，和达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜一起来到石头露台上，瓦尔瓦拉公主正坐在刺绣架前的树荫下，为阿列克谢·基里洛维奇伯爵的作品做封面。安乐椅。 “她说晚饭前她不想吃任何东西，但请为她订一些午餐，我会去找阿列克谢，把他们都带进来。”

Princess Varvara gave Dolly a cordial and rather patronizing reception, and began at once explaining to her that she was living with Anna because she had always cared more for her than her sister Katerina Pavlovna, the aunt that had brought Anna up, and that now, when every one had abandoned Anna, she thought it her duty to help her in this most difficult period of transition.
瓦尔瓦拉公主对多莉进行了热情而颇为居高临下的接待，并立即开始向她解释说，她之所以和安娜住在一起，是因为她一直比抚养安娜长大的姐姐卡特琳娜·帕夫洛芙娜更关心她，而现在，当所有人都抛弃安娜时，她认为帮助她度过这个最困难的过渡时期是她的责任。

‘Her husband will give her a divorce, and then I shall go back to my solitude; but now I can be of use, and I am doing my duty, however difficult it may be for me—not like some other people. And how sweet it is of you, how right of you to have come! They live like the best of married couples; it’s for God to judge them, not for us. And didn’t Biryuzovsky and Madame Avenieva...and Sam Nikandrov, and Vassiliev and Madame Mamonova, and Liza Neptunova... Did no one say anything about them? And it has ended by their being received by everyone. And then, c’est un interieur si joli, si comme il faut. Tout-a-fait a l’anglaise. On se reunit le matin au breakfast, et puis on se separe. Everyone does as he pleases till dinnertime. Dinner at seven o’clock. Stiva did very rightly to send you. He needs their support. You know that through his mother and brother he can do anything. And then they do so much good. He didn’t tell you about his hospital? Ce sera admirable—everything from Paris.’
‘她的丈夫会跟她离婚，然后我就回去孤独；但现在我可以派上用场，我正在尽我的职责，无论这对我来说有多困难——不像其他人。你的到来是多么的甜蜜，你的到来是多么的正确！他们像最好的已婚夫妇一样生活；审判他们的是神，而不是我们。难道 Biryuzovsky 和 ​​Avenieva 夫人……还有 Sam Nikandrov、Vassiliev 和 Mamonova 夫人、Liza Neptunova……没有人说过他们吗？最终他们受到了所有人的欢迎。然后，c’est un interieur si joli, si comme il faut。 Tout-a-fait a l’anglaise。早上一起吃早餐，然后分开。每个人都随心所欲地做事，直到晚餐时间。七点钟吃晚饭。 Stiva 派你来是非常正确的。他需要他们的支持。你知道，通过他的母亲和兄弟，他可以做任何事情。然后他们做了很多好事。他没告诉你他的医院吗？真是令人钦佩——一切都来自巴黎。”

Their conversation was interrupted by Anna, who had found the men of the party in the billiard room, and returned with them to the terrace. There was still a long time before the dinner-hour, it was exquisite weather, and so several different methods of spending the next two hours were proposed. There were very many methods of passing the time at Vozdvizhenskoe, and these were all unlike those in use at Pokrovskoe.
他们的谈话被安娜打断了，她在台球室里找到了一行人，然后和他们一起回到了露台。距离晚餐时间还有很长一段时间，天气很好，因此提出了几种不同的度过接下来两个小时的方法。在沃兹德维真斯科耶有很多打发时间的方法，而这些都与波克罗夫斯科耶使用的方法不同。

‘Une partie de lawn-tennis,’ Veslovsky proposed, with his handsome smile. ‘We’ll be partners again, Anna Arkadyevna.’
“草地网球派对，”维斯洛夫斯基带着英俊的微笑提议道。 “我们将再次成为合作伙伴，安娜·阿尔卡季耶芙娜。”

‘No, it’s too hot; better stroll about the garden and have a row in the boat, show Darya Alexandrovna the river banks.’ Vronsky proposed.
“不，太热了；” “最好在花园里散步，在船上划船，带达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜去看看河岸。”渥伦斯基提议道。

‘I agree to anything,’ said Sviazhsky.
“我什么都同意，”斯维亚日斯基说。

‘I imagine that what Dolly would like best would be a stroll— wouldn’t you? And then the boat, perhaps,’ said Anna.
“我想多莉最喜欢的就是散步——你不是吗？然后也许是船，”安娜说。

So it was decided. Veslovsky and Tushkevitch went off to the bathing place, promising to get the boat ready and to wait there for them.
于是就决定了。韦斯洛夫斯基和图什克维奇去了洗澡的地方，答应把船准备好并在那里等他们。

They walked along the path in two couples, Anna with Sviazhsky, and Dolly with Vronsky. Dolly was a little embarrassed and anxious in the new surroundings in which she found herself. Abstractly, theoretically, she did not merely justify, she positively approved of Anna’s conduct. As is indeed not unfrequent with women of unimpeachable virtue, weary of the monotony of respectable existence, at a distance she not only excused illicit love, she positively envied it. Besides, she loved Anna with all her heart. But seeing Anna in actual life among these strangers, with this fashionable tone that was so new to Darya Alexandrovna, she felt ill at ease. What she disliked particularly was seeing Princess Varvara ready to overlook everything for the sake of the comforts she enjoyed.
他们两对沿着小路走，安娜和斯维亚日斯基，多莉和渥伦斯基。多莉在新环境中感到有点尴尬和焦虑。抽象地、理论上来说，她不仅为安娜的行为辩解，而且积极赞同。确实，美德无可挑剔的女性厌倦了受人尊敬的单调生活，在远处，她不仅为不正当的爱情辩解，而且积极地羡慕它，这确实是常见的情况。而且，她全心全意地爱着安娜。但看到现实生活中的安娜置身于这些陌生人中间，用达里娅·亚历山德罗芙娜从未见过的时尚语气，她感到很不自在。她特别不喜欢的是看到瓦尔瓦拉公主为了她所享受的舒适而忽视一切。

As a general principle, abstractly, Dolly approved of Anna’s action; but to see the man for whose sake her action had been taken was disagreeable to her. Moreover, she had never liked Vronsky. She thought him very proud, and saw nothing in him of which he could be proud except his wealth. But against her own will, here in his own house, he overawed her more than ever, and she could not be at ease with him. She felt with him the same feeling she had had with the maid about her dressing jacket. Just as with the maid she had felt not exactly ashamed, but embarrassed at her darns, so she felt with him not exactly ashamed, but embarrassed at herself.
作为一般原则，抽象地说，多莉赞同安娜的行动；但她认为，安娜的行为是正确的。但看到她为之而采取行动的那个男人，她却感到不舒服。而且，她从来就不喜欢渥伦斯基。她认为他非常骄傲，除了财富之外，在他身上看不到任何值得骄傲的地方。但违背她的意愿，在他自己的家里，他比以往任何时候都更令她敬畏，她和他在一起时感到不自在。她对他的感觉就像她对女仆对她的晨衣的感觉一样。就像对待女仆一样，她并不感到羞耻，而是对自己的行为感到尴尬，同样，她对他也并不感到羞耻，而是对自己感到尴尬。

Dolly was ill at ease, and tried to find a subject of conversation. Even though she supposed that, through his pride, praise of his house and garden would be sure to be disagreeable to him, she did all the same tell him how much she liked his house.
多莉有些局促不安，试图寻找话题。尽管她认为，出于他的骄傲，对他的房子和花园的赞扬肯定会让他不愉快，但她仍然告诉他她有多么喜欢他的房子。

‘Yes, it’s a very fine building, and in the good old-fashioned style,’ he said.
“是的，这是一栋非常精美的建筑，而且具有良好的老式风格，”他说。

‘I like so much the court in front of the steps. Was that always so?’
“我非常喜欢台阶前面的球场。一直都是这样吗？

‘Oh, no!’ he said, and his face beamed with pleasure. ‘If you could only have seen that court last spring!’
“哦，不！”他说道，脸上洋溢着喜悦的光芒。 “如果你能在去年春天看到那个球场就好了！”

And he began, at first rather diffidently, but more and more carried away by the subject as he went on, to draw her attention to the various details of the decoration of his house and garden. It was evident that, having devoted a great deal of trouble to improve and beautify his home, Vronsky felt a need to show off the improvements to a new person, and was genuinely delighted at Darya Alexandrovna’s praise.
他开始，起初相当胆怯，但随着他的继续，他越来越被这个话题所吸引，吸引她注意他的房子和花园装饰的各种细节。显然，弗龙斯基费了很大的功夫来改善和美化他的家，他觉得有必要向一个新人炫耀一下这些改进，并对达里娅·亚历山德罗芙娜的称赞感到由衷的高兴。

‘If you would care to look at the hospital, and are not tired, indeed, it’s not far. Shall we go?’ he said, glancing into her face to convince himself that she was not bored. ‘Are you coming, Anna?’ he turned to her.
“如果你愿意去医院看看，而且不累，那确实不远。我们可以走了吗？”他一边说，一边看着她的脸，让自己相信她并不无聊。 “你要来吗，安娜？”他转向她。

‘We will come, won’t we?’ she said, addressing Sviazhsky. ‘Mais il ne faut pas laisser le pauvre Veslovsky et Tushkevitch se morfondre la dans le bateau. We must send and tell them.’
“我们会来，不是吗？”她对斯维亚日斯基说道。但维斯洛夫斯基和图什克维奇却无法在小船中度过。我们必须派人去告诉他们。

‘Yes, this is a monument he is setting up here,’ said Anna, turning to Dolly with that sly smile of comprehension with which she had previously talked about the hospital.
“是的，这是他在这里建立的一座纪念碑，”安娜说，转向多莉，带着她之前谈论医院时那种狡猾的理解微笑。

‘Oh, it’s a work of real importance!’ said Sviazhsky. But to show he was not trying to ingratiate himself with Vronsky, he promptly added some slightly critical remarks.
“哦，这是一件非常重要的工作！”斯维亚日斯基说道。但为了表明他并不是想讨好渥伦斯基，他立即添加了一些略显批评的言论。

‘I wonder, though, count,’ he said, ‘that while you do so much for the health of the peasants, you take so little interest in the schools.’
“不过，我想知道，”他说，“虽然你们为农民的健康做了这么多，但你们对学校却很少感兴趣。”

‘C’est devenu tellement commun les ecoles,’ said Vronsky. ‘You understand it’s not on that account, but it just happens so, my interest has been diverted elsewhere. This way then to the hospital,’ he said to Darya Alexandrovna, pointing to a turning out of the avenue.
“这就是学校的共同发展，”渥伦斯基说。 “你知道这不是因为这个，但事情就是这样，我的兴趣已经转移到其他地方了。”这条路就到医院了，”他指着大街的一个拐角对达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜说道。

The ladies put up their parasols and turned into the side path. After going down several turnings, and going through a little gate, Darya Alexandrovna saw standing on rising ground before her a large pretentious-looking red building, almost finished. The iron roof, which was not yet painted, shone with dazzling brightness in the sunshine. Beside the finished building another had been begun, surrounded by scaffolding. Workmen in aprons, standing on scaffolds, were laying bricks, pouring mortar out of vats, and smoothing it with trowels.
女士们撑起遮阳伞，拐进小路。转了几个弯，穿过一扇小门后，达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜看到她面前的高地上矗立着一座看上去很自命不凡的红色大建筑，快要竣工了。尚未粉刷的铁皮屋顶在阳光的照耀下闪烁着耀眼的光芒。在已完工的建筑旁边，另一栋建筑也已开始动工，周围环绕着脚手架。穿着围裙的工人们站在脚手架上，正在砌砖，从桶里倒灰浆，用泥刀抹平。

‘How quickly work gets done with you!’ said Sviazhsky. ‘When I was here last time the roof was not on.’
“你的工作完成得多快啊！”斯维亚日斯基说。 “我上次来的时候，屋顶还没有打开。”

‘By the autumn it will all be ready. Inside almost everything is done,’ said Anna.
‘到秋天，一切都会准备就绪。里面几乎一切都完成了，”安娜说。

‘And what’s this new building?’
“这座新建筑是什么？”

‘That’s the house for the doctor and the dispensary,’ answered Vronsky, seeing the architect in a short jacket coming towards him; and excusing himself to the ladies, he went to meet him.
“那是医生和药房的房子，”渥伦斯基回答道，他看到穿着短夹克的建筑师朝他走来。他向女士们道歉，然后去迎接他。

Going round a hole where the workmen were slaking lime, he stood still with the architect and began talking rather warmly.
绕过工人们正在消石灰的一个洞，他和建筑师站在一起，开始相当热情地交谈。

‘The front is still too low,’ he said to Anna, who had asked what was the matter.
“前面还是太低了，”他对安娜说，安娜问出了什么事。

‘I said the foundation ought to be raised,’ said Anna.
“我说应该把地基打高，”安娜说。

‘Yes, of course it would have been much better, Anna Arkadyevna,’ said the architect, ‘but now it’s too late.’
“是的，当然会好得多，安娜·阿尔卡季耶夫娜，”建筑师说，“但现在已经太晚了。”

‘Yes, I take a great interest in it,’ Anna answered Sviazhsky, who was expressing his surprise at her knowledge of architecture. ‘This new building ought to have been in harmony with the hospital. It was an afterthought, and was begun without a plan.’
“是的，我对此非常感兴趣。”斯维亚日斯基回答道，安娜对她的建筑知识表示惊讶。 “这座新建筑应该与医院和谐相处。这是事后才想到的，而且是在没有计划的情况下开始的。”

Vronsky, having finished his talk with the architect, joined the ladies, and led them inside the hospital.
渥伦斯基结束了与建筑师的谈话，加入了女士们的行列，带领她们走进了医院。

Although they were still at work on the cornices outside and were painting on the ground floor, upstairs almost all the rooms were finished. Going up the broad cast-iron staircase to the landing, they walked into the first large room. The walls were stuccoed to look like marble, the huge plate-glass windows were already in, only the parquet floor was not yet finished, and the carpenters, who were planing a block of it, left their work, taking off the bands that fastened their hair, to greet the gentry.
虽然外面的飞檐还在工作，一楼正在粉刷，但楼上几乎所有的房间都已经完工了。沿着宽阔的铸铁楼梯登上平台，他们走进了第一个大房间。墙壁被粉刷成大理石的样子，巨大的平板玻璃窗已经装好，只有镶木地板还没有完工，木匠们正在刨一块地板，他们放下了工作，取下了固定的带子。他们的头发，以迎接绅士。

‘This is the reception room,’ said Vronsky. ‘Here there will be a desk, tables, and benches, and nothing more.’
“这是接待室，”渥伦斯基说。 “这里只有一张桌子、桌子和长凳，仅此而已。”

‘This way; let us go in here. Don’t go near the window,’ said Anna, trying the paint to see if it were dry. ‘Alexey, the paint’s dry already,’ she added.
'这边走;让我们进去吧。不要靠近窗户。”安娜一边说，一边试了试油漆是否干了。 “阿列克谢，油漆已经干了，”她补充道。

From the reception room they went into the corridor. Here Vronsky showed them the mechanism for ventilation on a novel system. Then he showed them marble baths, and beds with extraordinary springs. Then he showed them the wards one after another, the storeroom, the linen room, then the heating stove of a new pattern, then the trolleys, which would make no noise as they carried everything needed along the corridors, and many other things. Sviazhsky, as a connoisseur in the latest mechanical improvements, appreciated everything fully. Dolly simply wondered at all she had not seen before, and, anxious to understand it all, made minute inquiries about everything, which gave Vronsky great satisfaction.
他们从接待室走进走廊。渥伦斯基在这里向他们展示了一种新颖系统的通风机制。然后他向他们展示了大理石浴室和带有非凡弹簧的床。然后他带他们参观了一个又一个病房，储藏室，布草室，然后是一种新型的取暖炉，然后是推车，推车在走廊里运着所有需要的东西，不会发出任何噪音，还有许多其他东西。斯维亚日斯基作为最新机械改进的鉴赏家，对一切都非常欣赏。多莉只是对她以前从未见过的一切感到好奇，并且急于了解这一切，对一切都进行了细致的询问，这让渥伦斯基非常满意。

‘Yes, I imagine that this will be the solitary example of a properly fitted hospital in Russia,’ said Sviazhsky.
“是的，我想这将是俄罗斯设施齐全的医院的唯一例子，”斯维亚日斯基说。

‘And won’t you have a lying-in ward?’ asked Dolly. ‘That’s so much needed in the country. I have often...’
“你们没有产房吗？”多莉问。 “这个国家非常需要这个。我经常……”

In spite of his usual courtesy, Vronsky interrupted her.
尽管渥伦斯基一向彬彬有礼，但他还是打断了她。

‘This is not a lying-in home, but a hospital for the sick, and is intended for all diseases, except infectious complaints,’ he said. ‘Ah! look at this,’ and he rolled up to Darya Alexandrovna an invalid chair that had just been ordered for the convalescents. ‘Look.’ He sat down in the chair and began moving it. ‘The patient can’t walk—still too weak, perhaps, or something wrong with his legs, but he must have air, and he moves, rolls himself along....’
他说，这不是产妇之家，而是病人的医院，旨在治疗除传染病之外的所有疾病。 '啊！看看这个，”他把一张刚为康复者订购的病椅卷到达里娅·亚历山德罗芙娜面前。 “看。”他坐在椅子上，开始移动它。 “病人无法行走——也许还是太虚弱了，或者他的腿出了问题，但他必须有空气，他才能移动，滚动自己……”

Darya Alexandrovna was interested by everything. She liked everything very much, but most of all she liked Vronsky himself with his natural, simple-hearted eagerness. ‘Yes, he’s a very nice, good man,’ she thought several times, not hearing what he said, but looking at him and penetrating into his expression, while she mentally put herself in Anna’s place. She liked him so much just now with his eager interest that she saw how Anna could be in love with him.
达里娅·亚历山德罗芙娜对一切都感兴趣。她非常喜欢一切，但最喜欢的是渥伦斯基本人，他有着自然而单纯的渴望。 “是的，他是一个非常好的、很好的男人，”她想了好几次，没有听到他说的话，而是看着他，洞察他的表情，同时她在心里设身处地为安娜着想。她刚才是那么喜欢他的热切，让她看到了安娜是如何爱上他的。

Chapter 21
第21章

‘No, I think the princess is tired, and horses don’t interest her,’ Vronsky said to Anna, who wanted to go on to the stables, where Sviazhsky wished to see the new stallion. ‘You go on, while I escort the princess home, and we’ll have a little talk,’ he said, ‘if you would like that?’ he added, turning to her.
“不，我认为公主累了，她对马不感兴趣，”渥伦斯基对安娜说，安娜想去马厩，斯维亚日斯基希望在那里看到新种马。 “你继续吧，我护送公主回家，我们会谈谈，”他说，“如果你愿意的话？”他转向她补充道。

‘I know nothing about horses, and I shall be delighted,’ answered Darya Alexandrovna, rather astonished.
“我对马一无所知，但我会很高兴，”达里娅·亚历山德罗芙娜相当惊讶地回答。

She saw by Vronsky’s face that he wanted something from her. She was not mistaken. As soon as they had passed through the little gate back into the garden, he looked in the direction Anna had taken, and having made sure that she could neither hear nor see them, he began:
她从渥伦斯基的脸上看出他想从她身上得到什么。她没有看错。他们一穿过小门回到花园，他就朝安娜走的方向看去，确定她既听不到也看不到他们，然后他开始说道：

‘You guess that I have something I want to say to you,’ he said, looking at her with laughing eyes. ‘I am not wrong in believing you to be a friend of Anna’s.’ He took off his hat, and taking out his handkerchief, wiped his head, which was growing bald.
“你猜我有话想对你说，”他笑着看着她说道。 “我相信你是安娜的朋友，这没有错。”他摘下帽子，拿出手帕擦了擦自己已经秃了的头。

Darya Alexandrovna made no answer, and merely stared at him with dismay. When she was left alone with him, she suddenly felt afraid; his laughing eyes and stern expression scared her.
达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜没有回答，只是沮丧地看着他。当只剩下她和他单独在一起时，她突然感到害怕；他那笑眯眯的眼睛和严厉的表情让她害怕。

The most diverse suppositions as to what he was about to speak of to her flashed into her brain. ‘He is going to beg me to come to stay with them with the children, and I shall have to refuse; or to create a set that will receive Anna in Moscow.... Or isn’t it Vassenka Veslovsky and his relations with Anna? Or perhaps about Kitty, that he feels he was to blame?’ All her conjectures were unpleasant, but she did not guess what he really wanted to talk about to her.
关于他要对她说的话，她的脑海里闪现出各种各样的猜测。 “他会求我跟他们和孩子们一起住，但我不得不拒绝；或者创造一个在莫斯科接待安娜的布景……或者不是瓦森卡·韦斯洛夫斯基和他与安娜的关系？或者也许是关于基蒂，他觉得自己应该受到责备？”她所有的猜测都令人不快，但她猜不透他真正想和她谈论什么。

‘You have so much influence with Anna, she is so fond of you,’ he said; ‘do help me.’
“你对安娜影响很大，她很喜欢你，”他说； “帮帮我吧。”

Darya Alexandrovna looked with timid inquiry into his energetic face, which under the lime-trees was continually being lighted up in patches by the sunshine, and then passing into complete shadow again. She waited for him to say more, but he walked in silence beside her, scratching with his cane in the gravel.
达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜胆怯地询问着他充满活力的脸，在椴树下，阳光不断地照亮着斑驳的斑点，然后又消失在完全的阴影中。她等着他再说更多，但他默默地走在她身边，用手杖在碎石上刮擦。

‘You have come to see us, you, the only woman of Anna’s former friends—I don’t count Princess Varvara—but I know that you have done this not because you regard our position as normal, but because, understanding all the difficulty of the position, you still love her and want to be a help to her. Have I understood you rightly?’ he asked, looking round at her.
“你来看我们，你，安娜以前朋友中唯一的女人——我不算瓦尔瓦拉公主——但我知道你这样做并不是因为你认为我们的处境很正常，而是因为，理解所有的困难在这个职位上，你仍然爱她并想为她提供帮助。 “我理解你的意思了吗？”他转头看着她问道。

‘Oh, yes,’ answered Darya Alexandrovna, putting down her sunshade, ‘but...’
“哦，是的，”达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜放下遮阳伞回答，“但是……”

‘No,’ he broke in, and unconsciously, oblivious of the awkward position into which he was putting his companion, he stopped abruptly, so that she had to stop short too. ‘No one feels more deeply and intensely than I do all the difficulty of Anna’s position; and that you may well understand, if you do me the honor of supposing I have any heart. I am to blame for that position, and that is why I feel it.’
“不，”他插嘴道，无意识地，他没有意识到他正在把他的同伴置于尴尬的境地，他突然停了下来，所以她也不得不停下来。 “没有人比我更深刻、更强烈地感受到安娜处境的所有困难；如果你荣幸地假设我有一颗心，你就会很好地理解。我应该为这个立场负责，这就是我有这种感觉的原因。

‘I understand,’ said Darya Alexandrovna, involuntarily admiring the sincerity and firmness with which he said this. ‘But just because you feel yourself responsible, you exaggerate it, I am afraid,’ she said. ‘Her position in the world is difficult, I can well understand.’
“我明白，”达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜说道，不由自主地钦佩他说这句话时的真诚和坚定。 “但恐怕只是因为你觉得自己有责任，你就夸大了它，”她说。 “她在世界上的地位很艰难，我很理解。”

‘In the world it is hell!’ he brought out quickly, frowning darkly. ‘You can’t imagine moral sufferings greater than what she went through in Petersburg in that fortnight...and I beg you to believe it.’
“人间就是地狱！”他皱起眉头，迅速说道。 “你无法想象比她在彼得堡那两周所经历的精神痛苦更大的……我恳求你相信这一点。”

‘Yes, but here, so long as neither Anna...nor you miss society...’
“是的，但是在这里，只要安娜……和你都不怀念社会……”

‘Society!’ he said contemptuously, ‘how could I miss society?’
“社会！”他轻蔑地说，“我怎么能想念社会呢？”

‘So far—and it may be so always—you are happy and at peace. I see in Anna that she is happy, perfectly happy, she has had time to tell me so much already,’ said Darya Alexandrovna, smiling; and involuntarily, as she said this, at the same moment a doubt entered her mind whether Anna really were happy.
“到目前为止——而且可能永远都是这样——你很快乐、很平静。我在安娜身上看到她很幸福，非常幸福，她已经有时间告诉我很多了。”达里娅·亚历山德罗芙娜微笑着说道。说这话的同时，她不由自主地怀疑安娜是否真的幸福。

But Vronsky, it appeared, had no doubts on that score.
但渥伦斯基似乎对此毫不怀疑。

‘Yes, yes,’ he said, ‘I know that she has revived after all her sufferings; she is happy. She is happy in the present. But I?... I am afraid of what is before us...I beg your pardon, you would like to walk on?’
“是的，是的，”他说，“我知道她在经历了所有的痛苦之后已经复活了；她很开心。她现在很幸福。但我？...我害怕我们面前的一切...请原谅，您想继续走吗？

‘No, I don’t mind.’
“不，我不介意。”

‘Well, then, let us sit here.’
“那么，我们就坐在这里吧。”

Darya Alexandrovna sat down on a garden seat in a corner of the avenue. He stood up facing her.
达里娅·亚历山德罗芙娜在大道一角的花园座位上坐下。他面向她站起来。

‘I see that she is happy,’ he repeated, and the doubt whether she were happy sank more deeply into Darya Alexandrovna’s mind. ‘But can it last? Whether we have acted rightly or wrongly is another question, but the die is cast,’ he said, passing from Russian to French, ‘and we are bound together for life. We are united by all the ties of love that we hold most sacred. We have a child, we may have other children. But the law and all the conditions of our position are such that thousands of complications arise which she does not see and does not want to see. And that one can well understand. But I can’t help seeing them. My daughter is by law not my daughter, but Karenin’s. I cannot bear this falsity!’ he said, with a vigorous gesture of refusal, and he looked with gloomy inquiry towards Darya Alexandrovna.
“我看到她很幸福。”他重复道，达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜心中更加怀疑她是否幸福。 ‘但是这能持续吗？我们的行为是对是错是另一个问题，但木已成舟，”他从俄语转为法语，“我们终生捆绑在一起。我们通过所有我们认为最神圣的爱的纽带将我们联系在一起。我们有一个孩子，我们可能还有其他孩子。但法律和我们立场的所有条件都导致了她看不到也不想看到的数以千计的复杂情况。这一点很容易理解。但我忍不住要去看他们。从法律上来说，我的女儿不是我的女儿，而是卡列宁的女儿。我无法忍受这种谎言！”他做出强烈拒绝的姿态说道，同时用阴郁的询问目光看着达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜。

She made no answer, but simply gazed at him. He went on:
她没有回答，只是看着他。他接着说：

‘One day a son may be born, my son, and he will be legally a Karenin; he will not be the heir of my name nor of my property, and however happy we may be in our home life and however many children we may have, there will be no real tie between us. They will be Karenins. You can understand the bitterness and horror of this position! I have tried to speak of this to Anna. It irritates her. She does not understand, and to her I cannot speak plainly of all this. Now look at another side. I am happy, happy in her love, but I must have occupation. I have found occupation, and am proud of what I am doing and consider it nobler than the pursuits of my former companions at court and in the army. And most certainly I would not change the work I am doing for theirs. I am working here, settled in my own place, and I am happy and contented, and we need nothing more to make us happy. I love my work here. Ce n’est pas un pis-aller, on the contrary...’
“有一天，一个儿子可能会出生，我的儿子，他将在法律上成为卡列宁人；他不会成为我名字和财产的继承人，无论我们的家庭生活多么幸福，无论我们有多少孩子，我们之间都不会有真正的联系。他们将是卡列宁派。你能体会到这个职位的辛酸和恐怖！我试图向安娜谈论这件事。这让她很恼火。她不明白，我也无法向她坦白地讲述这一切。现在看看另一面。我很幸福，在她的爱中幸福，但我必须有职业。我找到了工作，并对自己所做的事情感到自豪，并认为它比我以前在宫廷和军队中的同伴的追求更高尚。我当然不会改变我为他们所做的工作。我在这里工作，安顿在自己的地方，我很快乐，很满足，不需要更多的东西来让我们快乐。我喜欢我在这里的工作。相反，Ce n'est pas un pis-aller......”

Darya Alexandrovna noticed that at this point in his explanation he grew confused, and she did not quite understand this digression, but she felt that having once begun to speak of matters near his heart, of which he could not speak to Anna, he was now making a clean breast of everything, and that the question of his pursuits in the country fell into the same category of matters near his heart, as the question of his relations with Anna.
达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜注意到，在他的解释中，他变得困惑了，她不太明白这种离题，但她觉得，一旦开始谈论他内心深处的事情，而他不能向安娜谈论这些事情，他现在就他把一切都坦白说出来，他在乡下的追求问题与他与安娜的关系问题属于同一类他所关心的问题。

‘Well, I will go on,’ he said, collecting himself. ‘The great thing is that as I work I want to have a conviction that what I am doing will not die with me, that I shall have heirs to come after me,—and this I have not. Conceive the position of a man who knows that his children, the children of the woman he loves, will not be his, but will belong to someone who hates them and cares nothing about them! It is awful!’
“好吧，我会继续说下去，”他镇定下来说道。 “最重要的是，当我工作时，我希望有一个信念，即我所做的事情不会与我一起消亡，我将有继承人来追随我，但我没有。”想象一下，一个男人的处境，他知道他的孩子，他所爱的女人的孩子，不会属于他，而是属于一个讨厌他们并且根本不关心他们的人！太糟糕了！'

He paused, evidently much moved.
他停了下来，显然很感动。

‘Yes, indeed, I see that. But what can Anna do?’ queried Darya Alexandrovna.
“是的，确实如此，我明白了。但安娜能做什么呢？”达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜问道。

‘Yes, that brings me to the object of my conversation,’ he said, calming himself with an effort. ‘Anna can, it depends on her.... Even to petition the Tsar for legitimization, a divorce is essential. And that depends on Anna. Her husband agreed to a divorce—at that time your husband had arranged it completely. And now, I know, he would not refuse it. It is only a matter of writing to him. He said plainly at that time that if she expressed the desire, he would not refuse. Of course,’ he said gloomily, ‘it is one of those Pharisaical cruelties of which only such heartless men are capable. He knows what agony any recollection of him must give her, and knowing her, he must have a letter from her. I can understand that it is agony to her. But the matter is of such importance, that one must passer pardessus toutes ces finesses de sentiment. Il y va du bonheur et de l’existence d’Anne et de ses enfants. I won’t speak of myself, though it’s hard for me, very hard,’ he said, with an expression as though he were threatening someone for its being hard for him. ‘And so it is, princess, that I am shamelessly clutching at you as an anchor of salvation. Help me to persuade her to write to him and ask for a divorce.’
“是的，这让我明白了谈话的目的，”他努力让自己平静下来说道。 ‘安娜可以，这取决于她……即使是向沙皇请求合法化，离婚也是必不可少的。这取决于安娜。她丈夫同意离婚了，当时你丈夫就已经安排好了。现在，我知道，他不会拒绝。这只是写信给他的问题。他当时就明确表示，如果她表达了愿望，他不会拒绝。当然，”他阴郁地说，“这是法利赛人的残忍行径之一，只有这样无情的人才能干出这种事。他知道任何关于他的回忆都会给她带来多么痛苦，而且了解她，他一定收到她的一封信。我能理解这对她来说是一种痛苦。但这件事是如此重要，以至于人们必须通过Pardessus toute ces cesces de情感。 Il y va du bonheur et de l’existence d’Anne et de ses enfants。我不会谈论我自己，尽管这对我来说很难，非常难，”他说道，表情就好像他在威胁某人，因为这对他来说很难。 ‘所以，公主，我无耻地抓住你作为救赎的锚。帮我说服她写信给他要求离婚。”

‘Yes, of course,’ Darya Alexandrovna said dreamily, as she vividly recalled her last interview with Alexey Alexandrovitch. ‘Yes, of course,’ she repeated with decision, thinking of Anna.
“是的，当然，”达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜如梦似幻地说，她生动地回忆起她最后一次与阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇的会面。 “是的，当然。”她想起了安娜，坚定地重复道。

‘Use your influence with her, make her write. I don’t like—I’m almost unable to speak about this to her.’
“利用你对她的影响力，让她写作。我不喜欢——我几乎无法和她谈论这件事。

‘Very well, I will talk to her. But how is it she does not think of it herself?’ said Darya Alexandrovna, and for some reason she suddenly at that point recalled Anna’s strange new habit of half-closing her eyes. And she remembered that Anna drooped her eyelids just when the deeper questions of life were touched upon. ‘Just as though she half-shut her eyes to her own life, so as not to see everything,’ thought Dolly. ‘Yes, indeed, for my own sake and for hers I will talk to her,’ Dolly said in reply to his look of gratitude.
‘很好，我会和她谈谈。但她自己怎么想不到呢？”达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜说，不知为什么，她突然想起安娜半闭着眼睛的奇怪新习惯。她还记得，当触及生活的更深层次问题时，安娜垂下了眼睑。 “就像她对自己的生活半闭上眼睛，以免看到一切一样，”多莉想。 “是的，确实如此，为了我自己，也为了她，我会和她谈谈，”多莉回答说，他一脸感激。

They got up and walked to the house.
他们起身朝屋里走去。

Chapter 22
第22章

When Anna found Dolly at home before her, she looked intently in her eyes, as though questioning her about the talk she had had with Vronsky, but she made no inquiry in words.
当安娜发现多莉在她面前的家中时，她专注地看着她的眼睛，仿佛在询问她与渥伦斯基的谈话，但她没有用言语询问。

‘I believe it’s dinner time,’ she said. ‘We’ve not seen each other at all yet. I am reckoning on the evening. Now I want to go and dress. I expect you do too; we all got splashed at the buildings.’
“我想现在是晚餐时间了，”她说。 ‘我们还没有见过对方。我估计是晚上。现在我想去穿衣服。我希望你也这么做；我们都被建筑物溅湿了。”

Dolly went to her room and she felt amused. To change her dress was impossible, for she had already put on her best dress. But in order to signify in some way her preparation for dinner, she asked the maid to brush her dress, changed her cuffs and tie, and put some lace on her head.
多莉走进自己的房间，觉得很有趣。换衣服是不可能的，因为她已经穿上了她最好的衣服。但为了以某种方式表明她正在准备晚餐，她让女仆帮她刷衣服，换了袖口和领带，还在头上戴了一些花边。

‘This is all I can do,’ she said with a smile to Anna, who came in to her in a third dress, again of extreme simplicity.
“我能做的就是这些了，”她微笑着对安娜说，安娜穿着第三件衣服走进来，同样是极其简单的。

‘Yes, we are too formal here,’ she said, as it were apologizing for her magnificence. ‘Alexey is delighted at your visit, as he rarely is at anything. He has completely lost his heart to you,’ she added. ‘You’re not tired?’
“是的，我们这里太正式了，”她说，因为这是在为她的华丽道歉。 “阿列克谢对你的来访感到很高兴，因为他很少做任何事情。他已经完全失去了对你的心，”她补充道。 “你不累吗？”

There was no time for talking about anything before dinner. Going into the drawing room they found Princess Varvara already there, and the gentlemen of the party in black frock-coats. The architect wore a swallow-tail coat. Vronsky presented the doctor and the steward to his guest. The architect he had already introduced to her at the hospital.
晚餐前没有时间谈论任何事情。走进客厅，他们发现瓦尔瓦拉公主已经在那里，而参加聚会的绅士们都穿着黑色礼服。建筑师穿着一件燕尾服。渥伦斯基将医生和管家介绍给他的客人。他已经在医院给她介绍了建筑师。

A stout butler, resplendent with a smoothly shaven round chin and a starched white cravat, announced that dinner was ready, and the ladies got up. Vronsky asked Sviazhsky to take in Anna Arkadyevna, and himself offered his arm to Dolly. Veslovsky was before Tushkevitch in offering his arm to Princess Varvara, so that Tushkevitch with the steward and the doctor walked in alone.
一位身材矮胖的管家宣布晚餐准备好了，女士们起身，圆下巴剃得很光滑，系着浆过的白色领带。渥伦斯基请求斯维亚日斯基收留安娜·阿尔卡季耶夫娜，而他自己则向多莉伸出了手臂。维斯洛夫斯基先于图什克维奇向瓦尔瓦拉公主伸出手臂，这样图什克维奇就带着管家和医生独自走了进来。

The dinner, the dining room, the service, the waiting at table, the wine, and the food, were not simply in keeping with the general tone of modern luxury throughout all the house, but seemed even more sumptuous and modern. Darya Alexandrovna watched this luxury which was novel to her, and as a good housekeeper used to managing a household—although she never dreamed of adapting anything she saw to her own household, as it was all in a style of luxury far above her own manner of living—she could not help scrutinizing every detail, and wondering how and by whom it was all done. Vassenka Veslovsky, her husband, and even Sviazhsky, and many other people she knew, would never have considered this question, and would have readily believed what every well-bred host tries to make his guests feel, that is, that all that is well-ordered in his house has cost him, the host, no trouble whatever, but comes of itself. Darya Alexandrovna was well aware that even porridge for the children’s breakfast does not come of itself, and that therefore, where so complicated and magnificent a style of luxury was maintained, someone must give earnest attention to its organization. And from the glance with which Alexey Kirillovitch scanned the table, from the way he nodded to the butler, and offered Darya Alexandrovna her choice between cold soup and hot soup, she saw that it was all organized and maintained by the care of the master of the house himself. It was evident that it all rested no more upon Anna than upon Veslovsky. She, Sviazhsky, the princess, and Veslovsky, were equally guests, with light hearts enjoying what had been arranged for them.
晚餐、餐厅、服务、侍候、酒水、食物，不仅符合整个房子现代奢华的总体基调，而且显得更加奢华和现代。达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜（Darya Alexandrovna）目睹了这种奢华，这对她来说是新奇的，作为一个习惯于管理家庭的好管家，尽管她从未梦想过将她所看到的任何东西改编成自己的家庭，因为这一切都是一种远远超出她自己风格的奢华风格她情不自禁地审视每一个细节，想知道这一切是如何以及由谁完成的。瓦森卡·韦斯洛夫斯基、她的丈夫，甚至斯维亚日斯基，以及她认识的许多其他人，都永远不会考虑这个问题，并且很容易相信每一位有教养的主人都试图让他的客人感到一切都很好。 -在他家里订购并没有给他，主人带来任何麻烦，而是自然而然的。达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜很清楚，即使是孩子们早餐的粥也不是自然而然的，因此，在保持如此复杂和宏伟的奢华风格的地方，必须有人认真关注其组织。从阿列克谢·基里洛维奇扫视桌子的眼神，从他向管家点头的方式，以及向达里娅·亚历山德罗芙娜提供冷汤和热汤的选择的方式，她看到这一切都是由主人精心组织和维护的。房子自己。显然，这一切都取决于安娜，正如韦斯洛夫斯基一样。她、斯维亚日斯基、公主和韦斯洛夫斯基都是同样的客人，心情轻松地享受着为他们安排的一切。

Anna was the hostess only in conducting the conversation. The conversation was a difficult one for the lady of the house at a small table with persons present, like the steward and the architect, belonging to a completely different world, struggling not to be overawed by an elegance to which they were unaccustomed, and unable to sustain a large share in the general conversation. But this difficult conversation Anna directed with her usual tact and naturalness, and indeed she did so with actual enjoyment, as Darya Alexandrovna observed. The conversation began about the row Tushkevitch and Veslovsky had taken alone together in the boat, and Tushkevitch began describing the last boat races in Petersburg at the Yacht Club. But Anna, seizing the first pause, at once turned to the architect to draw him out of his silence.
安娜只是主持谈话的女主人。对于坐在一张小桌子旁的女主人来说，这场谈话是一场困难的谈话，在场的人，比如管家和建筑师，属于一个完全不同的世界，努力不被他们不习惯的优雅所吓倒，也无法做到这一点。在一般谈话中维持很大份额。但安娜以她一贯的机智和自然的方式进行了这场艰难的谈话，而且正如达里娅·亚历山德罗芙娜所观察到的那样，她实际上是带着真正的享受来进行的。谈话开始于图什克维奇和韦斯洛夫斯基单独在船上划船，图什克维奇开始描述在彼得堡游艇俱乐部举行的最后一场划船比赛。但安娜抓住了第一个停顿，立即转向建筑师，把他从沉默中拉了出来。

‘Nikolay Ivanitch was struck,’ she said, meaning Sviazhsky, ‘at the progress the new building had made since he was here last; but I am there every day, and every day I wonder at the rate at which it grows.’
“尼古拉·伊万内奇很震惊，”她说，指的是斯维亚日斯基，“自从他上次来这里以来，新大楼所取得的进展；但我每天都在那里，每天我都想知道它增长的速度。”

‘It’s first-rate working with his excellency,’ said the architect with a smile (he was respectful and composed, though with a sense of his own dignity). ‘It’s a very different matter to have to do with the district authorities. Where one would have to write out sheaves of papers, here I call upon the count, and in three words we settle the business.’
“与阁下合作是一流的，”建筑师微笑着说道（他很尊重人，很沉着，但也有自己的尊严感）。 “与地区当局有关的是一个非常不同的问题。人们必须写出一叠文件，在这里我请伯爵来，用三个字我们就解决了这个问题。

‘The American way of doing business,’ said Sviazhsky, with a smile.
“美国的做生意方式，”斯维亚日斯基微笑着说道。

‘Yes, there they build in a rational fashion...’
“是的，他们以理性的方式建造……”

The conversation passed to the misuse of political power in the United States, but Anna quickly brought it round to another topic, so as to draw the steward into talk.
话题转到了美国滥用政治权力的问题上，但安娜很快就把话题转到了另一个话题上，想把管家拉进来。

‘Have you ever seen a reaping machine?’ she said, addressing Darya Alexandrovna. ‘We had just ridden over to look at one when we met. It’s the first time I ever saw one.’
“你见过收割机吗？”她对达里娅·亚历山德罗芙娜说道。 “我们见面时刚刚骑马去看了一个。这是我第一次见到。

‘How do they work?’ asked Dolly.
“它们是如何工作的？”多莉问。

‘Exactly like little scissors. A plank and a lot of little scissors. Like this.’
‘就像小剪刀一样。一块木板和很多小剪刀。像这样。'

Anna took a knife and fork in her beautiful white hands covered with rings, and began showing how the machine worked. It was clear that she saw nothing would be understood from her explanation; but aware that her talk was pleasant and her hands beautiful she went on explaining.
安娜戴着戒指的漂亮白手拿着刀叉，开始展示机器的工作原理。很明显，她认为从她的解释中无法理解什么。但意识到她的谈话很愉快，她的手很漂亮，她继续解释。

‘More like little penknives,’ Veslovsky said playfully, never taking his eyes off her.
“更像是小刀，”维斯洛夫斯基开玩笑地说，眼睛始终没有离开过她。

Anna gave a just perceptible smile, but made no answer. ‘Isn’t it true, Karl Fedoritch, that it’s just like little scissors?’ she said to the steward.
安娜微微一笑，但没有回答。 “卡尔·费多里奇，它就像一把小剪刀，不是真的吗？”她对管家说。

‘Oh, ja,’ answered the German. ‘Es it ein ganz einfaches Ding,’ and he began to explain the construction of the machine.
“哦，哈，”德国人回答道。 “Es it ein ganz einfaches Ding”，他开始解释机器的构造。

‘It’s a pity it doesn’t bind too. I saw one at the Vienna exhibition, which binds with a wire,’ said Sviazhsky. ‘They would be more profitable in use.’
‘可惜它也没有绑定。我在维也纳展览上看到了一个，它是用电线绑起来的，”斯维亚日斯基说。 “使用它们会更有利可图。”

‘Es kommt drauf an.... Der Preis vom Draht muss ausgerechnet werden.’ And the German, roused from his taciturnity, turned to Vronsky. ‘Das laesst sich ausrechnen, Erlaucht.’ The German was just feeling in the pocket where were his pencil and the notebook he always wrote in, but recollecting that he was at a dinner, and observing Vronsky’s chilly glance, he checked himself. ‘Zu compliziert, macht zu viel Klopot,’ he concluded.
“Es kommt drauf an.... Der Preis vom Draht muss ausgerechnet werden。”德国人从沉默中醒来，转向渥伦斯基。 “Das laesst sich ausrechnen，Erlaucht。”德国人只是在口袋里摸索着他的铅笔和他总是写字的笔记本，但想起他正在吃晚饭，并观察了渥伦斯基冷冷的目光，他检查了自己。 “Zu compliziert, macht zu viel Klopot，”他总结道。

‘Wuenscht man Dochots, so hat man auch Klopots,’ said Vassenka Veslovsky, mimicking the German. ‘J’adore l’allemand,’ he addressed Anna again with the same smile.
“文施特人多霍茨，所以帽子人奥赫克洛波特，”瓦森卡·韦斯洛夫斯基模仿德国人说道。 “我爱阿勒曼，”他再次以同样的微笑对安娜说道。

‘Cessez,’ she said with playful severity.
“塞塞斯，”她顽皮地严肃地说。

‘We expected to find you in the fields, Vassily Semyonitch,’ she said to the doctor, a sickly-looking man; ‘have you been there?’
“我们预计会在田野里找到你，瓦西里·谢苗内奇，”她对看上去病恹恹的医生说。 '你到过那里吗？'

‘I went there, but I had taken flight,’ the doctor answered with gloomy jocoseness.
“我去了那里，但我已经飞走了。”医生阴郁而幽默地回答道。

‘Then you’ve taken a good constitutional?’
“那你已经学好宪法了吗？”

‘Splendid!’
'灿烂！'

‘Well, and how was the old woman? I hope it’s not typhus?’
‘那么，那个老太婆怎么样了？我希望这不是斑疹伤寒？

‘Typhus it is not, but it’s taking a bad turn.’
“它不是斑疹伤寒，但情况正在恶化。”

‘What a pity!’ said Anna, and having thus paid the dues of civility to her domestic circle, she turned to her own friends.
“真遗憾！”安娜说，在向她的家庭圈子表达了礼貌之后，她转向她自己的朋友。

‘It would be a hard task, though, to construct a machine from your description, Anna Arkadyevna,’ Sviazhsky said jestingly.
“不过，安娜·阿尔卡季耶夫娜，按照你的描述建造一台机器是一项艰巨的任务，”斯维亚日斯基开玩笑地说。

‘Oh, no, why so?’ said Anna with a smile that betrayed that she knew there was something charming in her disquisitions upon the machine that had been noticed by Sviazhsky. This new trait of girlish coquettishness made an unpleasant impression on Dolly.
“哦，不，为什么会这样呢？”安娜微笑着说道，这表明她知道她关于机器的论文中有些迷人的东西已经被斯维亚日斯基注意到了。这种少女风骚的新特征给多莉留下了不愉快的印象。

‘But Anna Arkadyevna’s knowledge of architecture is marvelous,’ said Tushkevitch.
“但是安娜·阿尔卡季耶夫娜的建筑知识非常出色，”图什克维奇说。

‘To be sure, I heard Anna Arkadyevna talking yesterday about plinths and damp-courses,’ said Veslovsky. ‘Have I got it right?’
“可以肯定的是，我昨天听到安娜·阿尔卡季耶夫娜谈论了底座和湿道，”韦斯洛夫斯基说。 “我做对了吗？”

‘There’s nothing marvelous about it, when one sees and hears so much of it,’ said Anna. ‘But, I dare say, you don’t even know what houses are made of?’
“当人们看到和听到这么多的时候，这并没有什么了不起的，”安娜说。 “但是，我敢说，你甚至不知道房子是用什么建造的？”

Darya Alexandrovna saw that Anna disliked the tone of raillery that existed between her and Veslovsky, but fell in with it against her will.
达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜看出安娜不喜欢她和韦斯洛夫斯基之间存在的嘲讽语气，但她还是违背自己的意愿接受了这种说法。

Vronsky acted in this matter quite differently from Levin. He obviously attached no significance to Veslovsky’s chattering; on the contrary, he encouraged his jests.
渥伦斯基在这件事上的做法与莱文截然不同。显然，他对韦斯洛夫斯基的喋喋不休不以为意。相反，他鼓励他开玩笑。

‘Come now, tell us, Veslovsky, how are the stones held together?’
“韦斯洛夫斯基，请告诉我们，这些石头是如何固定在一起的？”

‘By cement, of course.’
“当然是用水泥。”

‘Bravo! And what is cement?’
‘太棒了！什么是水泥？

‘Oh, some sort of paste...no, putty,’ said Veslovsky, raising a general laugh.
“哦，某种糊状物……不，油灰，”韦斯洛夫斯基说，引起了大家的笑声。

The company at dinner, with the exception of the doctor, the architect, and the steward, who remained plunged in gloomy silence, kept up a conversation that never paused, glancing off one subject, fastening on another, and at times stinging one or the other to the quick. Once Darya Alexandrovna felt wounded to the quick, and got so hot that she positively flushed and wondered afterwards whether she had said anything extreme or unpleasant. Sviazhsky began talking of Levin, describing his strange view that machinery is simply pernicious in its effects on Russian agriculture.
晚餐时，除了医生、建筑师和管家，他们仍然陷入阴沉的沉默中，其他人都在不停地交谈，浏览一个话题，紧接着另一个话题，有时刺痛一个或另一个话题。其他要快。有一次，达里娅·亚历山德罗芙娜感觉受到了刺痛，浑身热得满脸通红，事后想知道自己是否说了一些过激的话或令人不快的话。斯维亚日斯基开始谈论莱文，描述了他的奇怪观点，即机械对俄罗斯农业的影响简直是有害的。

‘I have not the pleasure of knowing this M. Levin,’ Vronsky said, smiling, ‘but most likely he has never seen the machines he condemns; or if he has seen and tried any, it must have been after a queer fashion, some Russian imitation, not a machine from abroad. What sort of views can anyone have on such a subject?’
“我不高兴认识这位莱文先生，”渥伦斯基微笑着说，“但他很可能从未见过他所谴责的机器；或者，如果他见过并尝试过任何机器，那一定是一种奇怪的时尚，某种俄罗斯仿制品，而不是来自国外的机器。对于这样的话题，大家能有什么看法呢？

‘Turkish views, in general,’ Veslovsky said, turning to Anna with a smile.
“总的来说，土耳其的观点，”韦斯洛夫斯基微笑着转向安娜说道。

‘I can’t defend his opinions,’ Darya Alexandrovna said, firing up; ‘but I can say that he’s a highly cultivated man, and if he were here he would know very well how to answer you, though I am not capable of doing so.’
“我无法捍卫他的观点，”达里娅·亚历山德罗芙娜激动地说。 “但我可以说，他是一个很有教养的人，如果他在这里，他会很清楚如何回答你，尽管我没有能力这样做。”

‘I like him extremely, and we are great friends,’ Sviazhsky said, smiling good-naturedly. ‘Mais pardon, il est un petit peu toque; he maintains, for instance, that district councils and arbitration boards are all of no use, and he is unwilling to take part in anything.’
“我非常喜欢他，我们是好朋友，”斯维亚日斯基善意地微笑着说道。 “请原谅，il est un petit peu toque；例如，他坚称区议会和仲裁委员会都没用，他不愿意参与任何事情。

‘It’s our Russian apathy,’ said Vronsky, pouring water from an iced decanter into a delicate glass on a high stem; ‘we’ve no sense of the duties our privileges impose upon us, and so we refuse to recognize these duties.’
“这是我们俄罗斯人的冷漠，”渥伦斯基一边说，一边把冰镇醒酒器中的水倒入高脚精致的玻璃杯中。 “我们没有意识到我们的特权强加给我们的责任，因此我们拒绝承认这些责任。”

‘I know no man more strict in the performance of his duties,’ said Darya Alexandrovna, irritated by Vronsky’s tone of superiority.
“我不知道有谁比他更严格地履行自己的职责，”达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜说道，她对渥伦斯基的优越语气感到恼火。

‘For my part,’ pursued Vronsky, who was evidently for some reason or other keenly affected by this conversation, ‘such as I am, I am, on the contrary, extremely grateful for the honor they have done me, thanks to Nikolay Ivanitch’ (he indicated Sviazhsky), ‘in electing me a justice of the peace. I consider that for me the duty of being present at the session, of judging some peasants’ quarrel about a horse, is as important as anything I can do. And I shall regard it as an honor if they elect me for the district council. It’s only in that way I can pay for the advantages I enjoy as a landowner. Unluckily they don’t understand the weight that the big landowners ought to have in the state.’
“就我而言，”渥伦斯基继续说道，显然出于某种原因，他受到了这次谈话的强烈影响，“相反，我非常感谢他们给予我的荣誉，这要感谢尼古拉·伊万内奇。” ”（他指的是斯维亚日斯基），“选举我为太平绅士。我认为对我来说，出席会议、评判一些农民关于马的争吵，与我能做的任何事情一样重要。如果他们选我为区议会议员，我将感到荣幸。只有这样我才能享受作为土地所有者所享有的优势。不幸的是，他们不了解大地主在该州应该拥有的分量。

It was strange to Darya Alexandrovna to hear how serenely confident he was of being right at his own table. She thought how Levin, who believed the opposite, was just as positive in his opinions at his own table. But she loved Levin, and so she was on his side.
达里娅·亚历山德罗芙娜听到他如此平静地确信自己就坐在自己的桌子旁，感到很奇怪。她认为莱文虽然持有相反的看法，但在自己的餐桌上却同样持积极的观点。但她爱莱文，所以她站在他一边。

‘So we can reckon upon you, count, for the coming elections?’ said Sviazhsky. ‘But you must come a little beforehand, so as to be on the spot by the eighth. If you would do me the honor to stop with me.’
“那么伯爵，我们可以指望你来参加即将到来的选举吗？”斯维亚日斯基说道。 “但是你必须提前一点来，以便在八点钟之前到达现场。”如果你愿意和我一起停下来的话，我很荣幸。

‘I rather agree with your beau-frere,’ said Anna, ‘though not quite on the same ground as he,’ she added with a smile. ‘I’m afraid that we have too many of these public duties in these latter days. Just as in old days there were so many government functionaries that one had to call in a functionary for every single thing, so now everyone’s doing some sort of public duty. Alexey has been here now six months, and he’s a member, I do believe, of five or six different public bodies. Du train que cela va, the whole time will be wasted on it. And I’m afraid that with such a multiplicity of these bodies, they’ll end in being a mere form. How many are you a member of, Nikolay Ivanitch?’ she turned to Sviazhsky—‘over twenty, I fancy.’
“我相当同意你的男友的观点，”安娜说，“尽管与他的立场不太一样，”她微笑着补充道。 “我担心近来我们有太多的公共职责。就像过去政府工作人员太多，什么事都得请一个工作人员一样，现在每个人都在履行某种公共职责。阿列克谢已经来这里六个月了，我相信他是五六个不同公共机构的成员。 Du train que cela va, 整个时间都会浪费在上面。而且我担心，如此多的身体，最终会成为一种形式。 “尼古拉·伊万内奇，你是多少人的成员？”她转向斯维亚日斯基——“我想超过二十人了。”

Anna spoke lightly, but irritation could be discerned in her tone. Darya Alexandrovna, watching Anna and Vronsky attentively, detected it instantly. She noticed, too, that as she spoke Vronsky’s face had immediately taken a serious and obstinate expression. Noticing this, and that Princess Varvara at once made haste to change the conversation by talking of Petersburg acquaintances, and remembering what Vronsky had without apparent connection said in the garden of his work in the country, Dolly surmised that this question of public activity was connected with some deep private disagreement between Anna and Vronsky.
安娜说话的语气很轻，但语气中却听出了不耐烦。达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜仔细地看着安娜和渥伦斯基，立刻就发现了这一点。她还注意到，她说话的时候，渥伦斯基的脸上立即露出了严肃而固执的表情。注意到这一点，瓦尔瓦拉公主立即急忙改变话题，谈论彼得堡的熟人，并想起渥伦斯基在他在乡下工作的花园里说过的话，但没有明显的联系，多莉推测这个公共活动的问题是有联系的。安娜和渥伦斯基之间存在一些深刻的私人分歧。

The dinner, the wine, the decoration of the table were all very good; but it was all like what Darya Alexandrovna had seen at formal dinners and balls which of late years had become quite unfamiliar to her; it all had the same impersonal and constrained character, and so on an ordinary day and in a little circle of friends it made a disagreeable impression on her.
晚餐、酒水、餐桌的布置都非常好；但这一切都像达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜在正式晚宴和舞会上看到的那样，近年来，她对这些已经变得相当陌生了。这一切都具有同样的客观性和局限性，因此在一个平常的日子里，在一个小朋友圈子里，这给她留下了不愉快的印象。

After dinner they sat on the terrace, then they proceeded to play lawn tennis. The players, divided into two parties, stood on opposite sides of a tightly drawn net with gilt poles on the carefully leveled and rolled croquet-ground. Darya Alexandrovna made an attempt to play, but it was a long time before she could understand the game, and by the time she did understand it, she was so tired that she sat down with Princess Varvara and simply looked on at the players. Her partner, Tushkevitch, gave up playing too, but the others kept the game up for a long time. Sviazhsky and Vronsky both played very well and seriously. They kept a sharp lookout on the balls served to them, and without haste or getting in each other’s way, they ran adroitly up to them, waited for the rebound, and neatly and accurately returned them over the net. Veslovsky played worse than the others. He was too eager, but he kept the players lively with his high spirits. His laughter and outcries never paused. Like the other men of the party, with the ladies’ permission, he took off his coat, and his solid, comely figure in his white shirt-sleeves, with his red perspiring face and his impulsive movements, made a picture that imprinted itself vividly on the memory.
晚餐后，他们坐在露台上，然后开始打草地网球。球员们分成两队，站在一张拉得很紧的网的两侧，网上有镀金的杆子，网球场上经过精心平整和碾压。达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜尝试玩游戏，但过了很长时间她才能够理解游戏，当她真正理解时，她已经太累了，于是她坐在瓦尔瓦拉公主身边，只是看着玩家。她的搭档图什克维奇也放弃了比赛，但其他人却坚持了很长时间。斯维亚日斯基和渥伦斯基都打得非常好，也很认真。他们对发来的球保持着敏锐的警惕，不慌不忙，也不妨碍对方，而是熟练地跑到球前，等待篮板球，然后干净利落、准确地将球回过网。维斯洛夫斯基的表现比其他人差。他太急躁了，但他的斗志却让队员们保持着活跃的气氛。他的笑声和叫喊声从未停歇。他和队伍中的其他男人一样，在女士们的允许下，脱掉了外套，白色衬衫袖子里的坚实俊美的身材，红着汗的脸和冲动的动作，构成了一幅栩栩如生的画面。在记忆上。

When Darya Alexandrovna lay in bed that night, as soon as she closed her eyes, she saw Vassenka Veslovsky flying about the croquet ground.
那天晚上，达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜躺在床上，一闭上眼睛，就看到瓦森卡·韦斯洛夫斯基在槌球场上飞来飞去。

During the game Darya Alexandrovna was not enjoying herself. She did not like the light tone of raillery that was kept up all the time between Vassenka Veslovsky and Anna, and the unnaturalness altogether of grown-up people, all alone without children, playing at a child’s game. But to avoid breaking up the party and to get through the time somehow, after a rest she joined the game again, and pretended to be enjoying it. All that day it seemed to her as though she were acting in a theater with actors cleverer than she, and that her bad acting was spoiling the whole performance. She had come with the intention of staying two days, if all went well. But in the evening, during the game, she made up her mind that she would go home next day. The maternal cares and worries, which she had so hated on the way, now, after a day spent without them, struck her in quite another light, and tempted her back to them.
达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜在比赛中并不开心。她不喜欢瓦森卡·韦斯洛夫斯基和安娜之间一直保持的轻松调侃的语气，也不喜欢成年人在没有孩子的情况下独自玩儿童游戏的不自然。但为了避免破坏聚会，也为了打发时间，休息了一会，她又加入了游戏，假装很享受。那一整天，她都觉得自己好像在一个剧院里，演员们都比她聪明，她的糟糕表演毁了整场演出。如果一切顺利的话，她本来打算在这里待两天。但到了晚上，比赛的时候，她就下定决心，明天就回家。路上她非常讨厌的母性关怀和忧虑，现在，在没有它们的一天之后，以完全不同的眼光打动了她，并诱惑她回到它们。

When, after evening tea and a row by night in the boat, Darya Alexandrovna went alone to her room, took off her dress, and began arranging her thin hair for the night, she had a great sense of relief.
喝过晚茶，晚上在船上吵架后，达里娅·亚历山德罗芙娜独自回到自己的房间，脱下衣服，开始整理稀疏的头发，准备过夜，她感到如释重负。

It was positively disagreeable to her to think that Anna was coming to see her immediately. She longed to be alone with her own thoughts.
一想到安娜马上就要来看她，她就感到非常不舒服。她渴望独自一人思考。

Chapter 23
第23章

Dolly was wanting to go to bed when Anna came in to see her, attired for the night. In the course of the day Anna had several times begun to speak of matters near her heart, and every time after a few words she had stopped: ‘Afterwards, by ourselves, we’ll talk about everything. I’ve got so much I want to tell you,’ she said.
多莉正想睡觉，安娜穿着过夜的衣服进来见她。一天中，安娜有好几次开始谈论她的心事，但每次说了几句话后，她就停下来：“然后，我们自己谈谈一切。”我有很多话想告诉你，”她说。

Now they were by themselves, and Anna did not know what to talk about. She sat in the window looking at Dolly, and going over in her own mind all the stores of intimate talk which had seemed so inexhaustible beforehand, and she found nothing. At that moment it seemed to her that everything had been said already.
现在只剩下他们两个人了，安娜不知道该说什么。她坐在窗前，看着多莉，在自己的脑海里回顾了之前似乎无穷无尽的亲密谈话，但她什么也没发现。那一刻，她觉得一切都已经说完了。

‘Well, what of Kitty?’ she said with a heavy sigh, looking penitently at Dolly. ‘Tell me the truth, Dolly: isn’t she angry with me?’
“那么，基蒂呢？”她重重地叹了口气，悔恨地看着多莉。 “告诉我实话，多莉：她没有生我的气吗？”

‘Angry? Oh, no!’ said Darya Alexandrovna, smiling.
'生气的？哦，不！”达里娅·亚历山德罗芙娜微笑着说道。

‘But she hates me, despises me?’
“但她恨我，鄙视我？”

‘Oh, no! But you know that sort of thing isn’t forgiven.’
'不好了！但你知道这种事情是不会被原谅的。”

‘Yes, yes,’ said Anna, turning away and looking out of the open window. ‘But I was not to blame. And who is to blame? What’s the meaning of being to blame? Could it have been otherwise? What do you think? Could it possibly have happened that you didn’t become the wife of Stiva?’
“是的，是的，”安娜说着，转过身去，看着开着的窗户外面。 '但我不应该受到责备。谁应该受到责备？被指责的意义是什么？会不会是另外一种情况呢？你怎么认为？难道你没有成为斯蒂瓦的妻子吗？

‘Really, I don’t know. But this is what I want you to tell me...’
‘真的，我不知道。但这就是我想让你告诉我的……”

‘Yes, yes, but we’ve not finished about Kitty. Is she happy? He’s a very nice man, they say.’
“是的，是的，但我们还没讲完基蒂的事。她快乐吗？他们说，他是一个非常好的人。

‘He’s much more than very nice. I don’t know a better man.’
“他不仅仅是非常友善。我不知道有比他更好的人了。

‘Ah, how glad I am! I’m so glad! Much more than very nice,’ she repeated.
‘啊，我多么高兴啊！我很高兴！不仅仅是非常好，”她重复道。

Dolly smiled.
多莉笑了。

‘But tell me about yourself. We’ve a great deal to talk about. And I’ve had a talk with...’ Dolly did not know what to call him. She felt it awkward to call him either the count or Alexey Kirillovitch.
“但是请告诉我关于你自己的事。我们有很多话要谈。我已经和……谈过了。”多莉不知道该称呼他什么。她觉得称呼他为伯爵或阿列克谢·基里洛维奇都很尴尬。

‘With Alexey,’ said Anna, ‘I know what you talked about. But I wanted to ask you directly what you think of me, of my life?’
“和阿列克谢，”安娜说，“我知道你在说什么。但我想直接问你对我、我的生活有何看法？

‘How am I to say like that straight off? I really don’t know.’
‘我怎么能直接这么说呢？我真的不知道。

‘No, tell me all the same.... You see my life. But you mustn’t forget that you’re seeing us in the summer, when you have come to us and we are not alone.... But we came here early in the spring, lived quite alone, and shall be alone again, and I desire nothing better. But imagine me living alone without him, alone, and that will be...I see by everything that it will often be repeated, that he will be half the time away from home,’ she said, getting up and sitting down close by Dolly.
“不，尽管如此，请告诉我……你看到了我的生活。但你一定不要忘记，你是在夏天见到我们的，当你来到我们身边时，我们并不孤单……但我们在春天早些时候来到这里，生活得很孤独，而且还会再次孤独，我没有什么比这更好的了。但想象一下，我独自生活，没有他，独自一人，那将是……我从一切事情中看到，这种情况会经常重演，他将有一半的时间不在家，”她说着站起来，在附近坐下。多莉。

‘Of course,’ she interrupted Dolly, who would have answered, ‘of course I won’t try to keep him by force. I don’t keep him indeed. The races are just coming, his horses are running, he will go. I’m very glad. But think of me, fancy my position.... But what’s the use of talking about it?’ She smiled. ‘Well, what did he talk about with you?’
“当然，”她打断了多莉的话，多莉会回答，“我当然不会试图用武力留住他。我确实不留他了。比赛即将来临，他的马正在奔跑，他要去。我很高兴。但想想我，想象一下我的立场……但是谈论这些有什么用呢？”她微笑着。 “那么，他和你聊了什么？”

‘He spoke of what I want to speak about of myself, and it’s easy for me to be his advocate; of whether there is not a possibility ...whether you could not...’ (Darya Alexandrovna hesitated) ‘correct, improve your position.... You know how I look at it.... But all the same, if possible, you should get married....’
“他谈到了我想说的关于我自己的事情，我很容易成为他的支持者；是否有可能……是否不能……”（达里娅·亚历山德罗芙娜犹豫了）“纠正，改善你的立场……你知道我是如何看待它的……但无论如何，如果有可能的话，你应该结婚……”

‘Divorce, you mean?’ said Anna. ‘Do you know, the only woman who came to see me in Petersburg was Betsy Tverskaya? You know her, of course? Au fond, c’est la femme la plus depravee qui existe. She had an intrigue with Tushkevitch, deceiving her husband in the basest way. And she told me that she did not care to know me so long as my position was irregular. Don’t imagine I would compare...I know you, darling. But I could not help remembering.... Well, so what did he say to you?’ she repeated.
“你是说离婚吗？”安娜说。 “你知道吗，贝齐·特维尔斯卡娅是唯一来彼得堡来看我的女人吗？你当然认识她吗？我喜欢，这就是存在的女人。她与图什克维奇勾心斗角，用最卑鄙的方式欺骗​​了她的丈夫。她告诉我，只要我的职位不正常，她就不想认识我。别以为我会比较……我了解你，亲爱的。但我忍不住想起……那么，他对你说了什么？”她重复道。

‘He said that he was unhappy on your account and his own. Perhaps you will say that it’s egoism, but what a legitimate and noble egoism. He wants first of all to legitimize his daughter, and to be your husband, to have a legal right to you.’
“他说他对你和他自己的事情感到不高兴。也许你会说这是利己主义，但这是多么合法、高尚的利己主义啊。他首先想让他的女儿合法化，成为你的丈夫，对你拥有合法的权利。

‘What wife, what slave can be so utterly a slave as I, in my position?’ she put in gloomily.
“在我的位置上，哪个妻子、哪个奴隶能像我一样彻底成为奴隶？”她阴沉地插话道。

‘The chief thing he desires...he desires that you should not suffer.’
“他最想要的事情……他希望你不应该受苦。”

‘That’s impossible. Well?’
'这不可能。出色地？'

‘Well, and the most legitimate desire—he wishes that your children should have a name.’
“好吧，最合理的愿望是——他希望你的孩子应该有一个名字。”

‘What children?’ Anna said, not looking at Dolly, and half closing her eyes.
“什么孩子？”安娜说，没有看多莉，半闭着眼睛。

‘Annie and those to come...’
“安妮和那些即将到来的人……”

‘He need not trouble on that score; I shall have no more children.’
“他不需要在这一点上麻烦；我不会再有孩子了。

‘How can you tell that you won’t?’
“你怎么知道你不会？”

‘I shall not, because I don’t wish it.’ And, in spite of all her emotion, Anna smiled, as she caught the naive expression of curiosity, wonder, and horror on Dolly’s face.
“我不会，因为我不希望这样。”尽管安娜情绪激动，但当她看到多莉脸上带着好奇、惊奇和恐惧的天真表情时，她还是笑了。

‘The doctor told me after my illness...’
“我生病后医生告诉我……”

‘Impossible!’ said Dolly, opening her eyes wide.
“不可能！”多莉睁大眼睛说道。

For her this was one of those discoveries the consequences and deductions from which are so immense that all that one feels for the first instant is that it is impossible to take it all in, and that one will have to reflect a great, great deal upon it.
对她来说，这是一个发现，其后果和推论是如此巨大，以至于人们在第一瞬间感觉到的是不可能全部接受，并且人们必须反思很多很多事情。它。

This discovery, suddenly throwing light on all those families of one or two children, which had hitherto been so incomprehensible to her, aroused so many ideas, reflections, and contradictory emotions, that she had nothing to say, and simply gazed with wide-open eyes of wonder at Anna. This was the very thing she had been dreaming of, but now learning that it was possible, she was horrified. She felt that it was too simple a solution of too complicated a problem.
这一发现，一下子让她明白了那些一直以来难以理解的一两个孩子的家庭，引发了太多的想法、反思和矛盾的情绪，让她无话可说，只是睁大眼睛看着。惊奇的目光看着安娜。这正是她一直梦想的事情，但现在得知这是可能的，她感到震惊。她觉得解决太复杂的问题太简单了。

‘N’est-ce pas immoral?’ was all she said, after a brief pause.
“这不道德吗？”短暂的停顿后，她只说了这么一句话。

‘Why so? Think, I have a choice between two alternatives: either to be with child, that is an invalid, or to be the friend and companion of my husband—practically my husband,’ Anna said in a tone intentionally superficial and frivolous.
'为什么这样？想想看，我有两个选择：要么带着孩子，那是个病人，要么成为我丈夫的朋友和伴侣——实际上是我的丈夫。”安娜故意用一种肤浅而轻浮的语气说道。

‘Yes, yes,’ said Darya Alexandrovna, hearing the very arguments she had used to herself, and not finding the same force in them as before.
“是的，是的，”达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜说，她听到了她自己曾经用过的论点，但发现它们不再像以前那样具有力量。

‘For you, for other people,’ said Anna, as though divining her thoughts, ‘there may be reason to hesitate; but for me.... You must consider, I am not his wife; he loves me as long as he loves me. And how am I to keep his love? Not like this!’
“对于你，对于其他人，”安娜说道，仿佛猜透了自己的想法，“可能有理由犹豫；但是，你可能有理由犹豫。”但对我来说……你必须考虑一下，我不是他的妻子；只要他爱我，他就爱我。而我该如何留住他的爱呢？不是这样的！

She moved her white hands in a curve before her waist with extraordinary rapidity, as happens during moments of excitement; ideas and memories rushed into Darya Alexandrovna’s head. ‘I,’ she thought, ‘did not keep my attraction for Stiva; he left me for others, and the first woman for whom he betrayed me did not keep him by being always pretty and lively. He deserted her and took another. And can Anna attract and keep Count Vronsky in that way? If that is what he looks for, he will find dresses and manners still more attractive and charming. And however white and beautiful her bare arms are, however beautiful her full figure and her eager face under her black curls, he will find something better still, just as my disgusting, pitiful, and charming husband does.’
她以惊人的速度将白皙的双手在腰前划出一道弧线，就像在兴奋的时刻一样。各种想法和记忆涌入达里娅·亚历山德罗芙娜的脑海。 “我，”她想，“没有保持对斯蒂瓦的吸引力；他为了别人而离开了我，而他背叛我的第一个女人并没有因为总是漂亮和活泼而留住他。他抛弃了她，另娶了她。安娜能以这种方式吸引并留住渥伦斯基伯爵吗？如果这就是他所寻找的，他会发现服装和举止更加有吸引力和迷人。无论她裸露的手臂多么洁白美丽，无论她丰满的身材和黑色卷发下那张热切的脸多么美丽，他都会找到更好的东西，就像我令人厌恶、可怜而迷人的丈夫一样。

Dolly made no answer, she merely sighed. Anna noticed this sigh, indicating dissent, and she went on. In her armory she had other arguments so strong that no answer could be made to them.
多莉没有回答，只是叹了口气。安娜注意到了这表明不同意的叹息，然后她继续说道。在她的军械库里，她还有其他一些强有力的论据，以至于无法对它们做出答复。

‘Do you say that it’s not right? But you must consider,’ she went on; ‘you forget my position. How can I desire children? I’m not speaking of the suffering, I’m not afraid of that. Think only, what are my children to be? Ill-fated children, who will have to bear a stranger’s name. For the very fact of their birth they will be forced to be ashamed of their mother, their father, their birth.’
‘你说这不对吗？但你必须考虑一下，”她继续说道。 ‘你忘记了我的立场。我怎么能渴望孩子呢？我不是在谈论痛苦，我并不害怕。想想看，我的孩子会成为什么样的人？命运多舛的孩子们，将不得不承受陌生人的名字。因为他们出生的事实，他们将被迫为他们的母亲、他们的父亲、他们的出生感到羞耻。

‘But that is just why a divorce is necessary.’ But Anna did not hear her. She longed to give utterance to all the arguments with which she had so many times convinced herself.
“但这就是为什么离婚是必要的。”但安娜没有听到她的声音。她渴望说出她多次说服自己的所有论点。

‘What is reason given me for, if I am not to use it to avoid bringing unhappy beings into the world!’ She looked at Dolly, but without waiting for a reply she went on:
“如果我不是用它来避免给这个世界带来不幸的众生，那我有什么理由呢！”她看着多莉，但不等她回答，她继续说道：

‘I should always feel I had wronged these unhappy children,’ she said. ‘If they are not, at any rate they are not unhappy; while if they are unhappy, I alone should be to blame for it.’
“我应该一直觉得我冤枉了这些不幸的孩子，”她说。 “如果他们不高兴，无论如何他们也不会不高兴；如果他们不高兴，我就应该承担责任。”

These were the very arguments Darya Alexandrovna had used in her own reflections; but she heard them without understanding them. ‘How can one wrong creatures that don’t exist?’ she thought. And all at once the idea struck her: could it possibly, under any circumstances, have been better for her favorite Grisha if he had never existed? And this seemed to her so wild, so strange, that she shook her head to drive away this tangle of whirling, mad ideas.
这些正是达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜在她自己的反思中所使用的论点。但她听到了他们的声音，但并不理解他们的意思。 “一个不存在的生物怎么可能是错误的呢？”她想。突然间，她突然想到：在任何情况下，如果她最喜欢的格里沙从未存在过，对他来说可能会更好吗？这对她来说是如此疯狂、如此奇怪，以至于她摇了摇头，赶走了这团乱七八糟、疯狂的想法。

‘No, I don’t know; it’s not right,’ was all she said, with an expression of disgust on her face.
“不，我不知道；”这是不对的。”她只这么说道，脸上带着厌恶的表情。

‘Yes, but you mustn’t forget that you and I.... And besides that,’ added Anna, in spite of the wealth of her arguments and the poverty of Dolly’s objections, seeming still to admit that it was not right, ‘don’t forget the chief point, that I am not now in the same position as you. For you the question is: do you desire not to have any more children; while for me it is: do I desire to have them? And that’s a great difference. You must see that I can’t desire it in my position.’
“是的，但你不能忘记，你和我……除此之外，”安娜补充道，尽管她的论点很丰富，多莉的反对意见也很贫乏，但她似乎仍然承认这是不对的， “别忘了最重要的一点，我现在的处境和你不一样。”对你来说，问题是：你是否不想再要孩子了？而对我来说则是：我渴望拥有它们吗？这是一个很大的区别。你必须明白，以我的立场，我不能希望这样。”

Darya Alexandrovna made no reply. She suddenly felt that she had got far away from Anna; that there lay between them a barrier of questions on which they could never agree, and about which it was better not to speak.
达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜没有回答。她突然觉得自己已经离安娜越来越远了；他们之间存在着一道他们永远无法达成一致的问题的障碍，最好不要谈论这些问题。

Chapter 24
第24章

‘Then there is all the more reason for you to legalize your position, if possible,’ said Dolly.
“如果可能的话，你更有理由使你的职位合法化，”多莉说。

‘Yes, if possible,’ said Anna, speaking all at once in an utterly different tone, subdued and mournful.
“是的，如果可能的话。”安娜同时用一种完全不同的语气说道，语气柔和而悲伤。

‘Surely you don’t mean a divorce is impossible? I was told your husband had consented to it.’
“你的意思肯定是离婚是不可能的吧？我听说你丈夫已经同意了。

‘Dolly, I don’t want to talk about that.’
“多莉，我不想谈论这个。”

‘Oh, we won’t then,’ Darya Alexandrovna hastened to say, noticing the expression of suffering on Anna’s face. ‘All I see is that you take too gloomy a view of things.’
“噢，那我们就不去了。”达里娅·亚历山德罗芙娜注意到安娜脸上痛苦的表情，急忙说道。 “我只看到你对事情的看法太悲观了。”

‘I? Not at all! I’m always bright and happy. You see, je fais des passions. Veslovsky...’
'我？一点也不！我总是明亮而快乐。你看，我是激情。维斯洛夫斯基……”

‘Yes, to tell the truth, I don’t like Veslovsky’s tone,’ said Darya Alexandrovna, anxious to change the subject.
“是的，说实话，我不喜欢韦斯洛夫斯基的语气，”达里娅·亚历山德罗芙娜急于改变话题说道。

‘Oh, that’s nonsense! It amuses Alexey, and that’s all; but he’s a boy, and quite under my control. You know, I turn him as I please. It’s just as it might be with your Grisha.... Dolly!’— she suddenly changed the subject—‘you say I take too gloomy a view of things. You can’t understand. It’s too awful! I try not to take any view of it at all.’
‘噢，那是胡说八道！这让阿列克谢觉得好笑，仅此而已。但他是个男孩，而且完全在我的控制之下。你知道，我随心所欲地转动他。就像你的格里沙……多莉一样！”——她突然改变了话题——“你说我对事物的看法太悲观了。你无法理解。太可怕了！我尽量不去看待它。

‘But I think you ought to. You ought to do all you can.’
“但我认为你应该这样做。你应该尽力而为。

‘But what can I do? Nothing. You tell me to marry Alexey, and say I don’t think about it. I don’t think about it!’ she repeated, and a flush rose into her face. She got up, straightening her chest, and sighed heavily. With her light step she began pacing up and down the room, stopping now and then. ‘I don’t think of it? Not a day, not an hour passes that I don’t think of it, and blame myself for thinking of it...because thinking of that may drive me mad. Drive me mad!’ she repeated. ‘When I think of it, I can’t sleep without morphine. But never mind. Let us talk quietly. They tell me, divorce. In the first place, he won’t give me a divorce. He’s under the influence of Countess Lidia Ivanovna now.’
'但我能做什么呢？没有什么。你告诉我要嫁给阿列克谢，却说我没有考虑过。我不想这个！”她重复道，脸上泛起红晕。她站起身来，挺直胸口，重重地叹了口气。她迈着轻快的步伐在房间里来回踱步，时不时地停下来。 ‘我没想到吗？没有一天，没有一个小时我不想起这件事，并责怪自己想起这件事……因为想起这件事可能会让我发疯。让我发疯！”她重复道。 “一想到这一点，没有吗啡我就睡不着。但是不要紧。让我们静静地谈谈吧。他们告诉我，离婚。首先，他不会和我离婚。他现在受到莉迪亚·伊万诺夫娜伯爵夫人的影响。

Darya Alexandrovna, sitting erect on a chair, turned her head, following Anna with a face of sympathetic suffering.
达里娅·亚历山德罗芙娜笔直地坐在椅子上，转过头，一脸同情地跟着安娜。

‘You ought to make the attempt,’ she said softly.
“你应该尝试一下，”她轻声说道。

‘Suppose I make the attempt. What does it mean?’ she said, evidently giving utterance to a thought, a thousand times thought over and learned by heart. ‘It means that I, hating him, but still recognizing that I have wronged him—and I consider him magnanimous—that I humiliate myself to write to him.... Well, suppose I make the effort; I do it. Either I receive a humiliating refusal or consent.... Well, I have received his consent, say...’ Anna was at that moment at the furthest end of the room, and she stopped there, doing something to the curtain at the window. ‘I receive his consent, but my...my son? They won’t give him up to me. He will grow up despising me, with his father, whom I’ve abandoned. Do you see, I love... equally, I think, but both more than myself—two creatures, Seryozha and Alexey.’
‘假设我尝试一下。这是什么意思？”她说，显然是在表达一个想法，经过千百遍的思考和熟记。 “这意味着我恨他，但仍然认识到我冤枉了他——而且我认为他很宽宏大量——我羞辱自己写信给他……好吧，假设我付出了努力；我认为他很宽宏大量。”我做。要么我遭到羞辱性的拒绝，要么他同意……好吧，我已经得到了他的同意，比如说……”安娜此时正站在房间的最远端，她停在那里，正在对最边的窗帘做点什么。窗户。 “我得到了他的同意，但是我的……我的儿子？他们不会把他交给我。他长大后会鄙视我，还有他的父亲，我已经抛弃了他。你看到了吗，我想……同等地爱，但比我自己更爱——谢廖扎和阿列克谢这两个生物。

She came out into the middle of the room and stood facing Dolly, with her arms pressed tightly across her chest. In her white dressing gown her figure seemed more than usually grand and broad. She bent her head, and with shining, wet eyes looked from under her brows at Dolly, a thin little pitiful figure in her patched dressing jacket and nightcap, shaking all over with emotion.
她走到房间中央，面向多莉站着，双臂紧紧地抱在胸前。穿着白色睡衣，她的身材显得比平常更加宏伟和宽阔。她低下头，用湿漉漉的眼睛从眉下看着多莉，她穿着打着补丁的晨衣，戴着睡帽，瘦弱可怜，激动得浑身发抖。

‘It is only those two creatures that I love, and one excludes the other. I can’t have them together, and that’s the only thing I want. And since I can’t have that, I don’t care about the rest. I don’t care about anything, anything. And it will end one way or another, and so I can’t, I don’t like to talk of it. So don’t blame me, don’t judge me for anything. You can’t with your pure heart understand all that I’m suffering.’ She went up, sat down beside Dolly, and with a guilty look, peeped into her face and took her hand.
“我只爱这两种生物，其中一种排斥另一种。我不能让他们在一起，这是我唯一想要的。既然我不能拥有这个，我就不关心其余的了。我什么都不关心，什么都不关心。它会以这样或那样的方式结束，所以我不能，我不喜欢谈论它。所以不要责怪我，不要因为任何事情来评判我。你不可能以你纯洁的心理解我所受的一切。”她走上前去，在多莉身边坐下，一脸愧疚地看着她的脸，握住了她的手。

‘What are you thinking? What are you thinking about me? Don’t despise me. I don’t deserve contempt. I’m simply unhappy. If anyone is unhappy, I am,’ she articulated, and turning away, she burst into tears.
'你在想什么？你在想我什么？别瞧不起我。我不值得被蔑视。我只是不高兴。如果有人不高兴，那就是我。”她说道，然后转身走开，泪流满面。

Left alone, Darya Alexandrovna said her prayers and went to bed. She had felt for Anna with all her heart while she was speaking to her, but now she could not force herself to think of her. The memories of home and of her children rose up in her imagination with a peculiar charm quite new to her, with a sort of new brilliance. That world of her own seemed to her now so sweet and precious that she would not on any account spend an extra day outside it, and she made up her mind that she would certainly go back next day.
达里娅·亚历山德罗芙娜独自一人做了祈祷，然后就上床睡觉了。当她和安娜说话时，她全心全意地同情她，但现在她无法强迫自己去想她。对家和孩子们的记忆在她的想象中浮现，带着一种对她来说全新的奇特魅力，带着一种新的光彩。那个属于她自己的世界现在对她来说是如此的甜蜜和珍贵，她无论如何都不会在外面多呆一天，她决定第二天一定要回去。

Anna meantime went back to her boudoir, took a wine glass and dropped into it several drops of a medicine, of which the principal ingredient was morphine. After drinking it off and sitting still a little while, she went into her bedroom in a soothed and more cheerful frame of mind.
与此同时，安娜回到了自己的闺房，拿起一个酒杯，往里面滴了几滴药物，这种药物的主要成分是吗啡。喝完之后，静静地坐了一会儿，她心情舒畅、心情愉悦地走进了自己的卧室。

When she went into the bedroom, Vronsky looked intently at her. He was looking for traces of the conversation which he knew that, staying so long in Dolly’s room, she must have had with her. But in her expression of restrained excitement, and of a sort of reserve, he could find nothing but the beauty that always bewitched him afresh though he was used to it, the consciousness of it, and the desire that it should affect him. He did not want to ask her what they had been talking of, but he hoped that she would tell him something of her own accord. But she only said:
当她走进卧室时，渥伦斯基专注地看着她。他正在寻找谈话的痕迹，他知道，在多莉的房间里待了这么久，她一定和她有过谈话。但在她克制的兴奋和某种矜持的表情中，他什么也找不到，除了那种总是让他重新着迷的美，尽管他已经习惯了它，它的意识，以及它应该影响他的愿望。他不想问她到底聊了什么，但他希望她能主动告诉他一些事情。但她只说：

‘I am so glad you like Dolly. You do, don’t you?’
“我很高兴你喜欢多莉。你知道，不是吗？

‘Oh, I’ve known her a long while, you know. She’s very good-hearted, I suppose, mais excessivement terre-a-terre. Still, I’m very glad to see her.’
“哦，你知道，我认识她很久了。我想，她心地很好，只是过度了。尽管如此，我还是很高兴见到她。

He took Anna’s hand and looked inquiringly into her eyes.
他握住安娜的手，询问地看着她的眼睛。

Misinterpreting the look, she smiled to him. Next morning, in spite of the protests of her hosts, Darya Alexandrovna prepared for her homeward journey. Levin’s coachman, in his by no means new coat and shabby hat, with his ill-matched horses and his coach with the patched mud-guards, drove with gloomy determination into the covered gravel approach.
她误解了他的表情，对他微笑。第二天早上，达里娅·亚历山德罗芙娜不顾东道主的反对，准备踏上归途。莱文的车夫穿着绝不是新的外套，戴着破旧的帽子，带着不相称的马匹和带有打补丁的挡泥板的马车，带着忧郁的决心驶入覆盖着碎石的道路。

Darya Alexandrovna disliked taking leave of Princess Varvara and the gentlemen of the party. After a day spent together, both she and her hosts were distinctly aware that they did not get on together, and that it was better for them not to meet. Only Anna was sad. She knew that now, from Dolly’s departure, no one again would stir up within her soul the feelings that had been roused by their conversation. It hurt her to stir up these feelings, but yet she knew that that was the best part of her soul, and that that part of her soul would quickly be smothered in the life she was leading.
达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜不喜欢与瓦尔瓦拉公主和一行人告别。经过一天的相处，她和主人都清楚地意识到，彼此不合，还是不要见面为好。只有安娜感到悲伤。她知道，自从多莉离开后，再也没有人会激起她灵魂中因他们的谈话而激起的感情了。激起这些感情让她很受伤，但她知道那是她灵魂中最好的部分，而她灵魂的那部分很快就会在她所过的生活中被窒息。

As she drove out into the open country, Darya Alexandrovna had a delightful sense of relief, and she felt tempted to ask the two men how they had liked being at Vronsky’s, when suddenly the coachman, Philip, expressed himself unasked:
当达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜开车驶入空旷的乡村时，她有一种令人愉快的解脱感，她很想问这两个人在渥伦斯基家的感觉如何，这时车夫菲利普突然表示自己没有被问到：

‘Rolling in wealth they may be, but three pots of oats was all they gave us. Everything cleared up till there wasn’t a grain left by cockcrow. What are three pots? A mere mouthful! And oats now down to forty-five kopecks. At our place, no fear, all comers may have as much as they can eat.’
“他们可能很富有，但他们给我们的只是三罐燕麦。一切都清理干净了，直到鸡鸣所留下的一粒谷子都没有了。什么是三锅？简直就是一口！燕麦现在降到了四十五戈比。在我们这里，不用担心，所有来的人都可以吃多少。

‘The master’s a screw,’ put in the counting house clerk.
“主人是个螺丝钉，”会计室的职员插话道。

‘Well, did you like their horses?’ asked Dolly.
“嗯，你喜欢他们的马吗？”多莉问。

‘The horses!—there’s no two opinions about them. And the food was good. But it seemed to me sort of dreary there, Darya Alexandrovna. I don’t know what you thought,’ he said, turning his handsome, good-natured face to her.
“马！——关于它们没有两种看法。食物很好吃。但达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜，我觉得那里有点沉闷。我不知道你怎么想，”他说着，把那张英俊、和蔼的脸转向她。

‘I thought so too. Well, shall we get home by evening?’
'我也是这么想。好吧，我们晚上回家好吗？

‘Eh, we must!’
“嗯，我们必须！”

On reaching home and finding everyone entirely satisfactory and particularly charming, Darya Alexandrovna began with great liveliness telling them how she had arrived, how warmly they had received her, of the luxury and good taste in which the Vronskys lived, and of their recreations, and she would not allow a word to be said against them.
回到家后，达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜发现每个人都完全满意，而且特别迷人，她开始以极大的活力告诉他们她是如何到达的，他们是多么热情地接待她，渥伦斯基一家的奢华和高雅的生活，以及他们的娱乐活动，以及她不允许有人对他们说任何反对的话。

‘One has to know Anna and Vronsky—I have got to know him better now—to see how nice they are, and how touching,’ she said, speaking now with perfect sincerity, and forgetting the vague feeling of dissatisfaction and awkwardness she had experienced there.
“人们必须了解安娜和渥伦斯基——我现在必须更了解他——才能看到他们有多好，有多感人，”她说，现在说话非常真诚，忘记了她之前那种模糊的不满和尴尬的感觉。在那里经历过。

Chapter 25
第25章

Vronsky and Anna spent the whole summer and part of the winter in the country, living in just the same condition, and still taking no steps to obtain a divorce. It was an understood thing between them that they should not go away anywhere; but both felt, the longer they lived alone, especially in the autumn, without guests in the house, that they could not stand this existence, and that they would have to alter it.
渥伦斯基和安娜在乡下度过了整个夏天和部分冬天，生活条件和以前一样，但仍然没有采取任何离婚措施。他们不应该离开任何地方，这是他们之间的共识。但两人都觉得，他们独自生活的时间越长，尤其是在秋天，家里没有客人，他们就无法忍受这种存在，他们必须改变它。

Their life was apparently such that nothing better could be desired. They had the fullest abundance of everything; they had a child, and both had occupation. Anna devoted just as much care to her appearance when they had no visitors, and she did a great deal of reading, both of novels and of what serious literature was in fashion. She ordered all the books that were praised in the foreign papers and reviews she received, and read them with that concentrated attention which is only given to what is read in seclusion. Moreover, every subject that was of interest to Vronsky, she studied in books and special journals, so that he often went straight to her with questions relating to agriculture or architecture, sometimes even with questions relating to horse-breeding or sport. He was amazed at her knowledge, her memory, and at first was disposed to doubt it, to ask for confirmation of her facts; and she would find what he asked for in some book, and show it to him.
他们的生活显然是再好不过了。他们拥有最丰富的一切；他们有一个孩子，而且都有工作。当没有访客时，安娜也同样注重自己的外表，她读了大量的书，包括小说和流行的严肃文学。她订购了所有她收到的外国报纸和评论中称赞的书籍，并以一种只有在隐居时才会阅读的专注力阅读它们。此外，渥伦斯基感兴趣的每一个科目，她都会在书籍和专门期刊中学习，因此他经常直接向她提出有关农业或建筑的问题，有时甚至提出有关马匹饲养或体育的问题。他对她的知识和记忆力感到惊讶，一开始他还对她的知识和记忆力表示怀疑，想请她证实事实；但后来他发现，她的知识和记忆力让他感到惊讶。她会在某本书中找到他想要的东西，然后拿给他看。

The building of the hospital, too, interested her. She did not merely assist, but planned and suggested a great deal herself. But her chief thought was still of herself—how far she was dear to Vronsky, how far she could make up to him for all he had given up. Vronsky appreciated this desire not only to please, but to serve him, which had become the sole aim of her existence, but at the same time he wearied of the loving snares in which she tried to hold him fast. As time went on, and he saw himself more and more often held fast in these snares, he had an ever growing desire, not so much to escape from them, as to try whether they hindered his freedom. Had it not been for this growing desire to be free, not to have scenes every time he wanted to go to the town to a meeting or a race, Vronsky would have been perfectly satisfied with his life. The role he had taken up, the role of a wealthy landowner, one of that class which ought to be the very heart of the Russian aristocracy, was entirely to his taste; and now, after spending six months in that character, he derived even greater satisfaction from it. And his management of his estate, which occupied and absorbed him more and more, was most successful. In spite of the immense sums cost him by the hospital, by machinery, by cows ordered from Switzerland, and many other things, he was convinced that he was not wasting, but increasing his substance. In all matters affecting income, the sales of timber, wheat, and wool, the letting of lands, Vronsky was hard as a rock, and knew well how to keep up prices. In all operations on a large scale on this and his other estates, he kept to the simplest methods involving no risk, and in trifling details he was careful and exacting to an extreme degree. In spite of all the cunning and ingenuity of the German steward, who would try to tempt him into purchases by making his original estimate always far larger than really required, and then representing to Vronsky that he might get the thing cheaper, and so make a profit, Vronsky did not give in. He listened to his steward, cross-examined him, and only agreed to his suggestions when the implement to be ordered or constructed was the very newest, not yet known in Russia, and likely to excite wonder. Apart from such exceptions, he resolved upon an increased outlay only where there was a surplus, and in making such an outlay he went into the minutest details, and insisted on getting the very best for his money; so that by the method on which he managed his affairs, it was clear that he was not wasting, but increasing his substance.
医院的建筑也引起了她的兴趣。她不仅提供帮助，还亲自计划并提出很多建议。但她主要的想法仍然是她自己——她对渥伦斯基有多亲爱，她能在多大程度上弥补他所放弃的一切。渥伦斯基欣赏这种不仅取悦他而且为他服务的愿望，这已成为她存在的唯一目标，但与此同时，他厌倦了她试图紧紧抓住他的爱的陷阱。随着时间的推移，他发现自己越来越频繁地陷入这些网罗之中，他的欲望也越来越强烈，与其说是想要逃离它们，不如说是想看看它们是否妨碍了他的自由。如果不是对自由的渴望日益强烈，不是每次去城里参加会议或比赛时都没有场面，渥伦斯基会对自己的生活感到非常满意。他所扮演的角色，一个富有的地主的角色，这个阶级应该是俄罗斯贵族的核心阶级之一，完全符合他的口味。现在，在扮演这个角色六个月后，他从中获得了更大的满足感。他对自己的财产的管理也非常成功，他的财产越来越占据并吸引了他。尽管他在医院、机器、从瑞士订购的奶牛以及许多其他事情上花费了巨额费用，但他确信他没有浪费，而是增加了他的物质。在所有影响收入的事务上，木材、小麦和羊毛的销售，土地的出租，渥伦斯基都坚如磐石，并且深知如何维持价格。在这座庄园和他的其他庄园的所有大规模行动中，他都采用最简单的方法，没有风险，在琐碎的细节上他也极其小心和严格。 尽管德国管家非常狡猾和聪明，但他还是会试图通过让他最初的估计远远大于实际需要来诱惑他购买，然后向渥伦斯基表示他可能会更便宜地买到东西，因此做出了一个决定。但渥伦斯基并没有屈服。他听取了管家的意见，盘问了他，只有当要订购或建造的设备是最新的、俄罗斯尚未知晓的、可能会引起惊奇的时候，他才同意他的建议。除了这些例外，他决定只在有盈余的情况下增加支出，在进行这种支出时，他考虑到最细微的细节，并坚持让他的钱得到最好的结果。因此，从他处理事务的方法来看，显然他并没有浪费，而是增加了自己的物质财富。

In October there were the provincial elections in the Kashinsky province, where were the estates of Vronsky, Sviazhsky, Koznishev, Oblonsky, and a small part of Levin’s land.
十月，卡申斯基省举行省级选举，该省有渥伦斯基、斯维亚日斯基、科兹尼舍夫、奥布隆斯基的庄园以及莱文的一小部分土地。

These elections were attracting public attention from several circumstances connected with them, and also from the people taking part in them. There had been a great deal of talk about them, and great preparations were being made for them. Persons who never attended the elections were coming from Moscow, from Petersburg, and from abroad to attend these. Vronsky had long before promised Sviazhsky to go to them. Before the elections Sviazhsky, who often visited Vozdvizhenskoe, drove over to fetch Vronsky. On the day before there had been almost a quarrel between Vronsky and Anna over this proposed expedition. It was the very dullest autumn weather, which is so dreary in the country, and so, preparing himself for a struggle, Vronsky, with a hard and cold expression, informed Anna of his departure as he had never spoken to her before. But, to his surprise, Anna accepted the information with great composure, and merely asked when he would be back. He looked intently at her, at a loss to explain this composure. She smiled at his look. He knew that way she had of withdrawing into herself, and knew that it only happened when she had determined upon something without letting him know her plans. He was afraid of this; but he was so anxious to avoid a scene that he kept up appearances, and half sincerely believed in what he longed to believe in—her reasonableness.
这些选举由于与其相关的一些情况以及参加选举的人们而引起了公众的关注。人们对它们进行了很多讨论，并为它们做了很多准备。从未参加过选举的人来自莫斯科、彼得堡和国外。渥伦斯基早就答应斯维亚日斯基去见他们。选举前，斯维亚日斯基经常去沃兹德维任斯科耶，他开车来接渥伦斯基。前一天，渥伦斯基和安娜就这次提议的探险几乎发生了争吵。那是最阴沉的秋天，乡间的天气如此沉闷，因此，渥伦斯基做好了斗争的准备，表情冷酷无情，告诉安娜他要离开了，因为他以前从未和她说过话。但出乎他意料的是，安娜却很平静地接受了这个信息，只是问了问他什么时候回来。他专注地看着她，不知道如何解释她的镇定。她看着他的样子笑了。他知道她就是这样退缩的，也知道只有当她决定做某件事而不让他知道她的计划时，才会发生这种情况。他害怕这个；他害怕这个。但他太急于避免场面，所以他一直保持着外表，半真诚地相信他渴望相信的东西——她的通情达理。

‘I hope you won’t be dull?’
“我希望你不会感到无聊？”

‘I hope not,’ said Anna. ‘I got a box of books yesterday from Gautier’s. No, I shan’t be dull.’
“我希望不会，”安娜说。 “我昨天从戈蒂埃书店买了一盒书。不，我不会迟钝的。

‘She’s trying to take that tone, and so much the better,’ he thought, ‘or else it would be the same thing over and over again.’
“她试图采取这种语气，那就更好了，”他想，“否则就会一遍又一遍地重复同样的事情。”

And he set off for the elections without appealing to her for a candid explanation. It was the first time since the beginning of their intimacy that he had parted from her without a full explanation. From one point of view this troubled him, but on the other side he felt that it was better so. ‘At first there will be, as this time, something undefined kept back, and then she will get used to it. In any case I can give up anything for her, but not my masculine independence,’ he thought.
他出发去参加选举，但没有向她请求坦诚的解释。自他们开始亲密关系以来，这是他第一次在没有充分解释的情况下与她分开。一方面这让他很困扰，但另一方面他又觉得这样更好。 “一开始，就像这一次一样，一些不确定的东西被保留下来，然后她就会习惯它。无论如何，我可以为了她放弃任何东西，但不能放弃我男性的独立，”他想。

Chapter 26
第26章

In September Levin moved to Moscow for Kitty’s confinement. He had spent a whole month in Moscow with nothing to do, when Sergey Ivanovitch, who had property in the Kashinsky province, and took great interest in the question of the approaching elections, made ready to set off to the elections. He invited his brother, who had a vote in the Seleznevsky district, to come with him. Levin had, moreover, to transact in Kashin some extremely important business relating to the wardship of land and to the receiving of certain redemption money for his sister, who was abroad.
九月，莱文搬到莫斯科照顾基蒂。他在莫斯科无所事事地度过了整整一个月，这时谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇在卡申斯基省拥有财产，对即将到来的选举问题非常感兴趣，准备出发去参加选举。他邀请他在谢列兹涅夫斯基区有投票权的兄弟一起去。此外，莱文还必须在卡申办理一些极其重要的事务，涉及土地的监护权以及为他在国外的妹妹收取一定的赎金。

Levin still hesitated, but Kitty, who saw that he was bored in Moscow, and urged him to go, on her own authority ordered him the proper nobleman’s uniform, costing seven pounds. And that seven pounds paid for the uniform was the chief cause that finally decided Levin to go. He went to Kashin....
莱文还在犹豫，但基蒂看到他在莫斯科很无聊，就催促他去，自己给他订了一套合适的贵族制服，花了七英镑。购买制服的七英镑是莱文最终决定离开的主要原因。他去了卡申……

Levin had been six days in Kashin, visiting the assembly each day, and busily engaged about his sister’s business, which still dragged on. The district marshals of nobility were all occupied with the elections, and it was impossible to get the simplest thing done that depended upon the court of wardship. The other matter, the payment of the sums due, was met too by difficulties. After long negotiations over the legal details, the money was at last ready to be paid; but the notary, a most obliging person, could not hand over the order, because it must have the signature of the president, and the president, though he had not given over his duties to a deputy, was at the elections. All these worrying negotiations, this endless going from place to place, and talking with pleasant and excellent people, who quite saw the unpleasantness of the petitioner’s position, but were powerless to assist him—all these efforts that yielded no result, led to a feeling of misery in Levin akin to the mortifying helplessness one experiences in dreams when one tries to use physical force. He felt this frequently as he talked to his most good-natured solicitor. This solicitor did, it seemed, everything possible, and strained every nerve to get him out of his difficulties. ‘I tell you what you might try,’ he said more than once; ‘go to so-and-so and so-and-so,’ and the solicitor drew up a regular plan for getting round the fatal point that hindered everything. But he would add immediately, ‘It’ll mean some delay, anyway, but you might try it.’ And Levin did try, and did go. Everyone was kind and civil, but the point evaded seemed to crop up again in the end, and again to bar the way. What was particularly trying, was that Levin could not make out with whom he was struggling, to whose interest it was that his business should not be done. That no one seemed to know; the solicitor certainly did not know. If Levin could have understood why, just as he saw why one can only approach the booking office of a railway station in single file, it would not have been so vexatious and tiresome to him. But with the hindrances that confronted him in his business, no one could explain why they existed.
莱文在卡欣待了六天，每天都去集会，忙着处理他妹妹的事，但事情仍然拖延着。贵族的地区元帅们都忙着选举，根本不可能把最简单的事情交给监护法院来做。另一件事，即应付款项的支付，也遇到了困难。经过对法律细节的长时间谈判，这笔钱终于准备好支付了。但是，公证人是最乐于助人的人，却无法将命令交给他，因为它必须有总统的签名，而总统虽然没有将职责交给议员，但他却参加了选举。所有这些令人担忧的谈判，无休止的从一个地方到另一个地方，与愉快而优秀的人交谈，他们完全看到了请愿者的处境的不愉快，但却无力帮助他——所有这些努力都没有结果，导致了一种感觉莱文的痛苦类似于一个人在梦中试图使用体力时所经历的令人屈辱的无助。当他与他最友善的律师交谈时，他经常有这种感觉。这位律师似乎做了一切可能的事，并竭尽全力帮助他摆脱困境。 “我告诉你你可以尝试什么，”他不止一次地说。 “去某某，某某”，律师制定了一个常规计划，以避开阻碍一切的致命点。但他会立即补充道，“无论如何，这意味着一些延迟，但你可以尝试一下。”莱文确实尝试了，也确实去了。每个人都很友善和文明，但最后似乎又出现了回避的问题，并再次挡住了道路。 尤其令人烦恼的是，莱文无法弄清楚他在与谁斗争，不应该为了谁的利益而做他的事。似乎没有人知道；律师当然不知道。如果莱文能够理解其中的原因，就像他看到为什么人们只能排成一队去火车站售票处一样，他就不会那么烦恼和厌烦了。但由于他在事业上遇到了障碍，没有人能解释它们为何存在。

But Levin had changed a good deal since his marriage; he was patient, and if he could not see why it was all arranged like this, he told himself that he could not judge without knowing all about it, and that most likely it must be so, and he tried not to fret.
但自从结婚以来，莱文发生了很大的变化。他很有耐心，如果他不明白为什么事情会这样安排，他告诉自己，在不了解全部情况的情况下，他无法做出判断，而且很可能就是这样，他尽量不去烦恼。

In attending the elections, too, and taking part in them, he tried now not to judge, not to fall foul of them, but to comprehend as fully as he could the question which was so earnestly and ardently absorbing honest and excellent men whom he respected. Since his marriage there had been revealed to Levin so many new and serious aspects of life that had previously, through his frivolous attitude to them, seemed of no importance, that in the question of the elections too he assumed and tried to find some serious significance.
在出席选举和参加选举时，他现在试图不去评判，不去与选举发生冲突，而是尽可能全面地理解这个问题，这个问题是如此真诚和热情地吸引着他所关心的诚实而优秀的人。受到尊重。自从结婚以来，莱文发现了生活中许多新的、严肃的方面，而以前，由于他对这些方面的轻浮态度，这些方面似乎并不重要，因此在选举问题上，他也假定并试图找到一些严肃的意义。 。

Sergey Ivanovitch explained to him the meaning and object of the proposed revolution at the elections. The marshal of the province in whose hands the law had placed the control of so many important public functions—the guardianship of wards (the very department which was giving Levin so much trouble just now), the disposal of large sums subscribed by the nobility of the province, the high schools, female, male, and military, and popular instruction on the new model, and finally, the district council—the marshal of the province, Snetkov, was a nobleman of the old school,—dissipating an immense fortune, a good-hearted man, honest after his own fashion, but utterly without any comprehension of the needs of modern days. He always took, in every question, the side of the nobility; he was positively antagonistic to the spread of popular education, and he succeeded in giving a purely party character to the district council which ought by rights to be of such an immense importance. What was needed was to put in his place a fresh, capable, perfectly modern man, of contemporary ideas, and to frame their policy so as from the rights conferred upon the nobles, not as the nobility, but as an element of the district council, to extract all the powers of self-government that could possibly be derived from them. In the wealthy Kashinsky province, which always took the lead of other provinces in everything, there was now such a preponderance of forces that this policy, once carried through properly there, might serve as a model for other provinces for all Russia. And hence the whole question was of the greatest importance. It was proposed to elect as marshal in place of Snetkov either Sviazhsky, or, better still, Nevyedovsky, a former university professor, a man of remarkable intelligence and a great friend of Sergey Ivanovitch.
谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇向他解释了选举中提议的革命的意义和目的。法律规定，许多重要的公共职能都掌握在这位省元帅的手中——监护权（正是这个部门刚才给莱文带来了很多麻烦），处理贵族们认购的大笔款项。省、高中、女子、男子和军队，以及新模式的大众教育，最后，区议会——该省元帅斯涅特科夫是一位旧派贵族——挥霍了巨额财产，一个心地善良的人，按照自己的方式诚实，但完全不了解现代的需要。在每一个问题上，他总是站在贵族一边。他积极反对普及教育，并成功地赋予了区议会纯粹的政党性质，而区议会理应具有如此巨大的重要性。需要的是在他的位置上安置一个新鲜的、有能力的、完全现代的、具有当代思想的人，并根据赋予贵族的权利来制定他们的政策，而不是作为贵族，而是作为地区议会的一个成员，以获取可能从他们那里获得的所有自治权力。在富裕的卡申斯基省，凡事总是领先于其他省份，现在势力如此强大，这一政策一旦在那里得到妥善执行，可能会成为全俄罗斯其他省份的典范。因此整个问题是最重要的。 有人建议选举斯维亚日斯基（Sviazhsky）或涅维耶多夫斯基（Nevyedovsky）代替斯涅茨科夫元帅。涅维耶多夫斯基是一位前大学教授，具有非凡的智慧，也是谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇（Sergey Ivanovitch）的好朋友。

The meeting was opened by the governor, who made a speech to the nobles, urging them to elect the public functionaries, not from regard for persons, but for the service and welfare of their fatherland, and hoping that the honorable nobility of the Kashinsky province would, as at all former elections, hold their duty as sacred, and vindicate the exalted confidence of the monarch.
会议由州长宣布开幕，他向贵族们发表讲话，敦促他们选举公职人员，不是出于个人考虑，而是为了祖国的服务和福祉，并希望卡申斯基省的尊贵贵族与以前的所有选举一样，他们将把自己的职责视为神圣，并维护君主的崇高信任。

When he had finished with his speech, the governor walked out of the hall, and the noblemen noisily and eagerly—some even enthusiastically—followed him and thronged round him while he put on his fur coat and conversed amicably with the marshal of the province. Levin, anxious to see into everything and not to miss anything, stood there too in the crowd, and heard the governor say: ‘Please tell Marya Ivanovna my wife is very sorry she couldn’t come to the Home.’ And thereupon the nobles in high good-humor sorted out their fur coats and all drove off to the cathedral.
当他演讲完毕后，总督走出大厅，贵族们喧闹而热切地——有的甚至是热情地——跟在他后面，簇拥在他周围，而他则穿上皮大衣，与省元帅友好地交谈。列文急于想看清一切，不想错过任何事情，他也站在人群中，听到总督说：“请告诉玛丽亚·伊万诺夫娜，我的妻子很抱歉她不能来家里。”于是贵族们就来了。大家兴高采烈地整理好皮大衣，然后开车前往大教堂。

In the cathedral Levin, lifting his hand like the rest and repeating the words of the archdeacon, swore with most terrible oaths to do all the governor had hoped they would do. Church services always affected Levin, and as he uttered the words ‘I kiss the cross,’ and glanced round at the crowd of young and old men repeating the same, he felt touched.
在大教堂里，莱文像其他人一样举起手，重复着副主教的话，发誓要做总督希望他们做的一切。教堂的仪式总是影响着莱文，当他说出“我亲吻十字架”这句话时，他环顾四周重复着同样话语的年轻人和老人，他感到很感动。

On the second and third days there was business relating to the finances of the nobility and the female high school, of no importance whatever, as Sergey Ivanovitch explained, and Levin, busy seeing after his own affairs, did not attend the meetings. On the fourth day the auditing of the marshal’s accounts took place at the high table of the marshal of the province. And then there occurred the first skirmish between the new party and the old. The committee who had been deputed to verify the accounts reported to the meeting that all was in order. The marshal of the province got up, thanked the nobility for their confidence, and shed tears. The nobles gave him a loud welcome, and shook hands with him. But at that instant a nobleman of Sergey Ivanovitch’s party said that he had heard that the committee had not verified the accounts, considering such a verification an insult to the marshal of the province. One of the members of the committee incautiously admitted this. Then a small gentleman, very young-looking but very malignant, began to say that it would probably be agreeable to the marshal of the province to give an account of his expenditures of the public moneys, and that the misplaced delicacy of the members of the committee was depriving him of this moral satisfaction. Then the members of the committee tried to withdraw their admission, and Sergey Ivanovitch began to prove that they must logically admit either that they had verified the accounts or that they had not, and he developed this dilemma in detail. Sergey Ivanovitch was answered by the spokesman of the opposite party. Then Sviazhsky spoke, and then the malignant gentleman again. The discussion lasted a long time and ended in nothing. Levin was surprised that they should dispute upon this subject so long, especially as, when he asked Sergey Ivanovitch whether he supposed that money had been misappropriated, Sergey Ivanovitch answered:
第二天和第三天，有一些与贵族和女子高中的财务有关的事务，正如谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇解释的那样，这些事务并不重要，而列文忙于处理自己的事务，没有参加会议。第四天，省元帅的高层会议上对元帅的账目进行了审计。然后新党和旧党之间发生了第一次冲突。负责核实账目的委员会向会议报告称一切正常。省元帅起身，感谢贵族们的信任，流下了眼泪。贵族们热烈欢迎他，并与他握手。但就在那时，谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇党派的一位贵族说，他听说委员会尚未核实这些账目，认为这种核实是对该省元帅的侮辱。委员会的一位成员不小心承认了这一点。然后，一位看起来很年轻但很恶毒的小绅士开始说，该省的元帅可能会同意他对公共资金的支出进行说明，并且该省成员的错误的美味佳肴委员会剥夺了他的这种道德满足感。然后委员会成员试图撤回他们的承认，谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇开始证明他们必须从逻辑上承认他们要么已经核实了账目，要么没有核实过，他详细地阐述了这个困境。谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇得到了对方发言人的答复。然后斯维亚日斯基说话了，然后那位恶毒的绅士又说话了。讨论持续了很长时间，最终没有结果。列文很惊讶他们竟然在这个问题上争论这么久，尤其是当他问谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇是否认为钱被挪用时，谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇回答说：

‘Oh, no! He’s an honest man. But those old-fashioned methods of paternal family arrangements in the management of provincial affairs must be broken down.’
'不好了！他是一个诚实的人。但那些由父系家庭安排来管理省级事务的老式方法必须被打破。”

On the fifth day came the elections of the district marshals. It was rather a stormy day in several districts. In the Seleznevsky district Sviazhsky was elected unanimously without a ballot, and he gave a dinner that evening.
第五天进行了地区元帅的选举。对于几个地区来说，这是一个暴风雨的日子。在谢列兹涅夫斯基区，斯维亚日斯基未经投票一致当选，并于当晚举办了晚宴。

Chapter 27
第27章

The sixth day was fixed for the election of the marshal of the province.
第六天定为省元帅选举。

The rooms, large and small, were full of noblemen in all sorts of uniforms. Many had come only for that day. Men who had not seen each other for years, some from the Crimea, some from Petersburg, some from abroad, met in the rooms of the Hall of Nobility. There was much discussion around the governor’s table under the portrait of the Tsar.
大大小小的房间里，挤满了穿着各种制服的贵族。许多人只是为了那一天而来。多年未见的人们，有的来自克里米亚，有的来自彼得堡，有的来自国外，在贵族厅的房间里见面。在沙皇肖像下的州长餐桌周围，人们进行了很多讨论。

The nobles, both in the larger and the smaller rooms, grouped themselves in camps, and from their hostile and suspicious glances, from the silence that fell upon them when outsiders approached a group, and from the way that some, whispering together, retreated to the farther corridor, it was evident that each side had secrets from the other. In appearance the noblemen were sharply divided into two classes: the old and the new. The old were for the most part either in old uniforms of the nobility, buttoned up closely, with spurs and hats, or in their own special naval, cavalry, infantry, or official uniforms. The uniforms of the older men were embroidered in the old-fashioned way with epaulets on their shoulders; they were unmistakably tight and short in the waist, as though their wearers had grown out of them. The younger men wore the uniform of the nobility with long waists and broad shoulders, unbuttoned over white waistcoats, or uniforms with black collars and with the embroidered badges of justices of the peace. To the younger men belonged the court uniforms that here and there brightened up the crowd.
贵族们，无论是在大房间还是小房间里，都聚集成营地，从他们充满敌意和怀疑的目光，从当外人接近一群人时落在他们身上的沉默，从一些人在一起窃窃私语，撤退的方式。更远的走廊里，显然双方都有对方的秘密。从表面上看，贵族们被严格地分为两个阶级：旧的和新的。老人们大多要么穿着贵族的旧制服，扣紧扣子，戴着马刺，戴着帽子，要么穿着他们自己特殊的海军、骑兵、步兵或官方制服。年长者的制服上有老式刺绣，肩上有肩章。毫无疑问，它们的腰部又紧又短，就好像穿着它们的人已经长大了一样。年轻男子则穿长腰宽肩的贵族制服，解开扣子外搭白马甲，或穿黑领制服，绣有太平绅士徽章。宫廷制服属于年轻人，时不时地让人群变得明亮起来。

But the division into young and old did not correspond with the division of parties. Some of the young men, as Levin observed, belonged to the old party; and some of the very oldest noblemen, on the contrary, were whispering with Sviazhsky, and were evidently ardent partisans of the new party.
但年轻人和老年人的划分与政党的划分并不相符。正如莱文所观察到的，有些年轻人属于旧党；有些则属于旧党。相反，一些最古老的贵族正在与斯维亚日斯基窃窃私语，他们显然是新政党的热心拥护者。

Levin stood in the smaller room, where they were smoking and taking light refreshments, close to his own friends, and listening to what they were saying, he conscientiously exerted all his intelligence trying to understand what was said. Sergey Ivanovitch was the center round which the others grouped themselves. He was listening at that moment to Sviazhsky and Hliustov, the marshal of another district, who belonged to their party. Hliustov would not agree to go with his district to ask Snetkov to stand, while Sviazhsky was persuading him to do so, and Sergey Ivanovitch was approving of the plan. Levin could not make out why the opposition was to ask the marshal to stand whom they wanted to supersede.
莱文站在较小的房间里，他们在那里抽烟、吃点心，靠近他自己的朋友，听着他们在说什么，他认真地发挥自己所有的聪明才智，试图理解他们所说的内容。谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇处于中心位置，其他人都聚集在一起。此刻他正在听斯维亚日斯基和属于他们党的另一区元帅赫柳斯托夫的讲话。赫留斯托夫不同意与他的选区一起要求斯涅特科夫参选，而斯维亚日斯基则说服他这样做，而谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇则批准了该计划。莱文不明白为什么反对派要要求元帅上台，以取代他们想要取代的人。

Stepan Arkadyevitch, who had just been drinking and taking some lunch, came up to them in his uniform of a gentleman of the bedchamber, wiping his lips with a perfumed handkerchief of bordered batiste.
斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇刚刚喝完酒，吃过午饭，穿着寝宫绅士的制服向他们走来，用一条镶边麻布的芳香手帕擦着嘴唇。

‘We are placing our forces,’ he said, pulling out his whiskers, ‘Sergey Ivanovitch!’
“我们正在部署我们的部队，”他拔掉胡须说道，“谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇！”

And listening to the conversation, he supported Sviazhsky’s contention.
听了谈话，他支持斯维亚日斯基的论点。

‘One district’s enough, and Sviazhsky’s obviously of the opposition,’ he said, words evidently intelligible to all except Levin.
“一个选区就足够了，而斯维亚日斯基显然是反对派，”他说，这句话显然除了莱文之外所有人都能听懂。

‘Why, Kostya, you here too! I suppose you’re converted, eh?’ he added, turning to Levin and drawing his arm through his. Levin would have been glad indeed to be converted, but could not make out what the point was, and retreating a few steps from the speakers, he explained to Stepan Arkadyevitch his inability to understand why the marshal of the province should be asked to stand.
‘为什么，克斯特亚，你也在这里！我想你已经皈依了，是吗？”他补充道，转向莱文，挽住自己的手臂。列文确实很高兴能皈依基督教，但不明白这是什么意思，他从演讲者身边退了几步，向斯捷潘·阿尔卡季维奇解释说，他无法理解为什么应该要求该省的元帅起立。

‘O sancta simplicitas!’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch, and briefly and clearly he explained it to Levin. If, as at previous elections, all the districts asked the marshal of the province to stand, then he would be elected without a ballot. That must not be. Now eight districts had agreed to call upon him: if two refused to do so, Snetkov might decline to stand at all; and then the old party might choose another of their party, which would throw them completely out in their reckoning. But if only one district, Sviazhsky’s, did not call upon him to stand, Snetkov would let himself be balloted for. They were even, some of them, going to vote for him, and purposely to let him get a good many votes, so that the enemy might be thrown off the scent, and when a candidate of the other side was put up, they too might give him some votes. Levin understood to some extent, but not fully, and would have put a few more questions, when suddenly everyone began talking and making a noise and they moved towards the big room.
“啊，神圣的简单！”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇说道，他向列文简单而清楚地解释了这一点。如果像以前的选举一样，所有地区都要求省元帅参选，那么他将不经投票当选。一定不是这样的。现在有八个地区同意邀请他参加：如果有两个地区拒绝这样做，斯涅特科夫可能根本不会参选；然后旧党可能会选择他们党中的另一个人，这将把他们完全排除在他们的计算之外。但如果只有一个选区，即斯维亚日斯基选区，没有要求他参选，斯涅特科夫就会让自己参加投票。他们甚至有的人要投票给他，故意让他得到很多票，让敌人失去踪迹，而当对方的候选人被提出时，他们也可能会给他一些选票。莱文多少明白了一些，但又不完全明白，本来还想再问几个问题，突然大家开始议论纷纷，纷纷向大房间走去。

‘What is it? eh? whom?’ ‘No guarantee? whose? what?’ ‘They won’t pass him?’ ‘No guarantee?’ ‘They won’t let Flerov in?’ ‘Eh, because of the charge against him?’ ‘Why, at this rate, they won’t admit anyone. It’s a swindle!’ ‘The law!’ Levin heard exclamations on all sides, and he moved into the big room together with the others, all hurrying somewhere and afraid of missing something. Squeezed by the crowding noblemen, he drew near the high table where the marshal of the province, Sviazhsky, and the other leaders were hotly disputing about something.
'它是什么？嗯？谁？” “不能保证？谁的？什么？” “他们不会放过他？” “不能保证？” “他们不会让弗列罗夫进来？” “呃，因为对他的指控？” “为什么，按照这个速度，他们不会承认任何人。 “法律！”莱文听到四面八方都惊呼起来，他和其他人一起走进了大房间，大家都在赶路，生怕错过了什么。在拥挤的贵族们的挤压下，他来到了高桌旁，省元帅斯维亚日斯基和其他领导人正在那里激烈地争论着什么。

Chapter 28
第28章

Levin was standing rather far off. A nobleman breathing heavily and hoarsely at his side, and another whose thick boots were creaking, prevented him from hearing distinctly. He could only hear the soft voice of the marshal faintly, then the shrill voice of the malignant gentleman, and then the voice of Sviazhsky. They were disputing, as far as he could make out, as to the interpretation to be put on the act and the exact meaning of the words: ‘liable to be called up for trial.’
莱文站在相当远的地方。旁边有一个贵族喘着粗气，声音嘶哑，还有一个厚靴子吱吱作响，让他听不清楚。他只能隐约听到元帅轻柔的声音，然后是恶毒绅士的尖锐声音，然后是斯维亚日斯基的声音。据他所知，他们正在争论对该法案的解释以及“有责任被传唤接受审判”这句话的确切含义。

The crowd parted to make way for Sergey Ivanovitch approaching the table. Sergey Ivanovitch, waiting till the malignant gentleman had finished speaking, said that he thought the best solution would be to refer to the act itself, and asked the secretary to find the act. The act said that in case of difference of opinion, there must be a ballot.
人群分开，为谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇走近桌子让路。谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇等到这位恶毒的绅士说完后，他说他认为最好的解决办法是参考该法案本身，并要求秘书找到该法案。该法案规定，如果有不同意见，必须进行投票。

Sergey Ivanovitch read the act and began to explain its meaning, but at that point a tall, stout, round-shouldered landowner, with dyed whiskers, in a tight uniform that cut the back of his neck, interrupted him. He went up to the table, and striking it with his finger ring, he shouted loudly: ‘A ballot! Put it to the vote! No need for more talking!’ Then several voices began to talk all at once, and the tall nobleman with the ring, getting more and more exasperated, shouted more and more loudly. But it was impossible to make out what he said.
谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇读了这个法案，并开始解释它的含义，但就在这时，一个身材高大、粗壮、圆肩、留着胡须、身穿紧身制服、割破脖子的地主打断了他。他走到桌子前，用指环敲击桌子，大声喊道：“选票！”将其付诸投票！不用再说了！”然后几个声音同时开始说话，那名戴着戒指的高大贵族越来越恼火，喊得越来越大声。但无法听清他说的话。

He was shouting for the very course Sergey Ivanovitch had proposed; but it was evident that he hated him and all his party, and this feeling of hatred spread through the whole party and roused in opposition to it the same vindictiveness, though in a more seemly form, on the other side. Shouts were raised, and for a moment all was confusion, so that the marshal of the province had to call for order.
他大声疾呼谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇所提议的路线；但很明显，他憎恨他和他的全体党员，这种仇恨情绪在整个党派中蔓延，并在另一方激起同样的报复性，尽管形式更为适当。喊声一片，一时混乱，省元帅只得下令维持秩序。

‘A ballot! A ballot! Every nobleman sees it! We shed our blood for our country!... The confidence of the monarch.... No checking the accounts of the marshal; he’s not a cashier.... But that’s not the point.... Votes, please! Beastly!...’ shouted furious and violent voices on all sides. Looks and faces were even more violent and furious than their words. They expressed the most implacable hatred. Levin did not in the least understand what was the matter, and he marveled at the passion with which it was disputed whether or not the decision about Flerov should be put to the vote. He forgot, as Sergey Ivanovitch explained to him afterwards, this syllogism: that it was necessary for the public good to get rid of the marshal of the province; that to get rid of the marshal it was necessary to have a majority of votes; that to get a majority of votes it was necessary to secure Flerov’s right to vote; that to secure the recognition of Flerov’s right to vote they must decide on the interpretation to be put on the act.
‘投票！一张选票！每个贵族都看到了！我们为国家流血！……君主的信任……不查元帅的账目；他不是收银员……但这不是重点……请投票！畜生！……”四面八方传来愤怒而暴力的叫喊声。眼神和表情比他们的言语还要暴力和愤怒。他们表达了最无法平息的仇恨。莱文根本不明白发生了什么事，他对是否应该将有关弗莱罗夫的决定付诸表决的激烈争论感到惊讶。正如谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇后来向他解释的那样，他忘记了这个三段论：为了公共利益，有必要摆脱省元帅；要罢免元帅，必须获得多数票；为了获得多数选票，必须确保弗莱罗夫的投票权；为了确保弗莱罗夫的投票权得到承认，他们必须决定对该法案的解释。

‘And one vote may decide the whole question, and one must be serious and consecutive, if one wants to be of use in public life,’ concluded Sergey Ivanovitch. But Levin forgot all that, and it was painful to him to see all these excellent persons, for whom he had a respect, in such an unpleasant and vicious state of excitement. To escape from this painful feeling he went away into the other room where there was nobody except the waiters at the refreshment bar. Seeing the waiters busy over washing up the crockery and setting in order their plates and wine glasses, seeing their calm and cheerful faces, Levin felt an unexpected sense of relief as though he had come out of a stuffy room into the fresh air. He began walking up and down, looking with pleasure at the waiters. He particularly liked the way one gray-whiskered waiter, who showed his scorn for the other younger ones and was jeered at by them, was teaching them how to fold up napkins properly. Levin was just about to enter into conversation with the old waiter, when the secretary of the court of wardship, a little old man whose specialty it was to know all the noblemen of the province by name and patronymic, drew him away.
谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇总结道：“一票可能决定整个问题，如果想在公共生活中发挥作用，那么一票就必须是认真的、连续的。”但列文忘记了这一切，看到所有这些他尊敬的优秀人士都处于如此不愉快和恶毒的兴奋状态，他感到很痛苦。为了摆脱这种痛苦的感觉，他走进了另一个房间，那里除了茶点吧的服务员之外没有人。看着侍者们忙着清洗餐具，摆好盘子和酒杯，看着他们平静而愉快的脸庞，莱文突然有一种轻松的感觉，仿佛从闷热的房间里出来，呼吸到了新鲜的空气。他开始走来走去，高兴地看着侍者。他特别喜欢一位白胡子服务员教他们如何正确折叠餐巾，他对其他年轻人表现出蔑视，并受到他们的嘲笑。莱文正要和老侍者交谈，监护法院的秘书，一个小老头，专长是知道全省所有贵族的名字和父名，把他拉走了。

‘Please come, Konstantin Dmitrievitch,’ he said, ‘your brother’s looking for you. They are voting on the legal point.’
“请过来，康斯坦丁·德米特里耶维奇，”他说，“你哥哥正在找你。”他们正在就法律问题进行投票。

Levin walked into the room, received a white ball, and followed his brother, Sergey Ivanovitch, to the table where Sviazhsky was standing with a significant and ironical face, holding his beard in his fist and sniffing at it. Sergey Ivanovitch put his hand into the box, put the ball somewhere, and making room for Levin, stopped. Levin advanced, but utterly forgetting what he was to do, and much embarrassed, he turned to Sergey Ivanovitch with the question, ‘Where am I to put it?’ He asked this softly, at a moment when there was talking going on near, so that he had hoped his question would not be overheard. But the persons speaking paused, and his improper question was overheard. Sergey Ivanovitch frowned.
列文走进房间，收到一个白色的球，然后跟着他的兄弟谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇来到桌子旁，斯维亚日斯基站在那儿，一脸严肃而讽刺，手里攥着胡子，嗅着。谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇把手伸进禁区，把球放在某个地方，为莱文腾出空间，停了下来。列文向前走去，但完全忘记了自己要做什么，而且非常尴尬，他转向谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇问道：“我该把它放在哪里？”正当附近有人说话的时候，他轻声问道，因此他希望他的问题不会被无意中听到。但说话的人却顿住了，他不恰当的问题被无意中听到了。谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇皱起了眉头。

‘That is a matter for each man’s own decision,’ he said severely.
“这是每个人自己决定的事情，”他严肃地说。

Several people smiled. Levin crimsoned, hurriedly thrust his hand under the cloth, and put the ball to the right as it was in his right hand. Having put it in, he recollected that he ought to have thrust his left hand too, and so he thrust it in though too late, and, still more overcome with confusion, he beat a hasty retreat into the background.
几个人都笑了。莱文涨红了脸，连忙把手伸到布底下，把球按在右手里一样放到了右边。放进去后，他想起自己也应该把左手也伸进去，于是他就伸了进去，尽管为时已晚，而且，他更加困惑了，匆忙退到了后面。

‘A hundred and twenty-six for admission! Ninety-eight against!’ sang out the voice of the secretary, who could not pronounce the letter r. Then there was a laugh; a button and two nuts were found in the box. The nobleman was allowed the right to vote, and the new party had conquered.
‘入场费一百二十六！九十八反对！”秘书的声音大声说道，他无法发音字母r。然后传来一阵笑声。盒子里发现了一个按钮和两个螺母。贵族获得了投票权，新政党取得了胜利。

But the old party did not consider themselves conquered. Levin heard that they were asking Snetkov to stand, and he saw that a crowd of noblemen was surrounding the marshal, who was saying something. Levin went nearer. In reply Snetkov spoke of the trust the noblemen of the province had placed in him, the affection they had shown him, which he did not deserve, as his only merit had been his attachment to the nobility, to whom he had devoted twelve years of service. Several times he repeated the words: ‘I have served to the best of my powers with truth and good faith, I value your goodness and thank you,’ and suddenly he stopped short from the tears that choked him, and went out of the room. Whether these tears came from a sense of the injustice being done him, from his love for the nobility, or from the strain of the position he was placed in, feeling himself surrounded by enemies, his emotion infected the assembly, the majority were touched, and Levin felt a tenderness for Snetkov.
但旧党并不认为自己被征服了。列文听到他们要求斯涅特科夫起立，他看到一群贵族围着元帅，元帅正在说话。莱文走近了一些。斯涅特科夫在答复中谈到了该省贵族对他的信任，他们对他的感情，但他不值得，因为他唯一的优点是他对贵族的依恋，他为贵族奉献了十二年。服务。他好几次重复这句话：“我已尽我所能，以真理和善意服务，我珍视你的善良并感谢你。”突然，他因哽咽的泪水而停了下来，走出了房间。 。无论是因为自己受到不公正的对待，还是因为对贵族的热爱，或者是因为处境的紧张，感觉自己被敌人包围，他的情感感染了在场的人，大多数人都被感动了，列文对斯涅特科夫充满了温柔。

In the doorway the marshal of the province jostled against Levin.
在门口，省元帅与莱文推搡着。

‘Beg pardon, excuse me, please,’ he said as to a stranger, but recognizing Levin, he smiled timidly. It seemed to Levin that he would have liked to say something, but could not speak for emotion. His face and his whole figure in his uniform with the crosses, and white trousers striped with braid, as he moved hurriedly along, reminded Levin of some hunted beast who sees that he is in evil case. This expression in the marshal’s face was particularly touching to Levin, because, only the day before, he had been at his house about his trustee business and had seen him in all his grandeur, a kind-hearted, fatherly man. The big house with the old family furniture; the rather dirty, far from stylish, but respectful footmen, unmistakably old house serfs who had stuck to their master; the stout, good-natured wife in a cap with lace and a Turkish shawl, petting her pretty grandchild, her daughter’s daughter; the young son, a sixth form high school boy, coming home from school, and greeting his father, kissing his big hand; the genuine, cordial words and gestures of the old man—all this had the day before roused an instinctive feeling of respect and sympathy in Levin. This old man was a touching and pathetic figure to Levin now, and he longed to say something pleasant to him.
“请原谅，请原谅，”他对一个陌生人说道，但认出莱文后，他胆怯地笑了笑。莱文似乎想说点什么，但又无法表达情感。当他匆匆走动时，他的脸和他穿着带有十字架的制服和带有辫子条纹的白色裤子的整个身材，让列文想起了一些被猎杀的野兽，看到他处于邪恶的境地。元帅脸上的这种表情让莱文特别感动，因为就在前一天，他还在他家里处理他的受托事务，并看到了他的威严，一个善良的、慈父般的人。大房子里有旧的家庭家具；相当脏，远不时尚，但很受人尊敬的男仆，毫无疑问是老农奴，他们一直忠于他们的主人；粗壮、善良的妻子戴着蕾丝帽子，披着土耳其披肩，抚摸着她漂亮的孙子，也就是她女儿的女儿；年幼的儿子，一名六年级高中生，放学回家，向父亲打招呼，亲吻他的大手；老人的真诚、亲切的言语和举止——这一切在前一天都激起了莱文本能的尊敬和同情。这个老人现在对莱文来说是一个令人感动又可怜的人物，他渴望对他说一些愉快的话。

‘So you’re sure to be our marshal again,’ he said.
“所以你肯定会再次成为我们的元帅，”他说。

‘It’s not likely,’ said the marshal, looking round with a scared expression. ‘I’m worn out, I’m old. If there are men younger and more deserving than I, let them serve.’
“这不太可能。”元帅环顾四周说道，脸上露出惊恐的表情。 ‘我累了，我老了。如果有比我更年轻、更值得的人，就让他们去服役吧。”

And the marshal disappeared through a side door.
元帅从侧门消失了。

The most solemn moment was at hand. They were to proceed immediately to the election. The leaders of both parties were reckoning white and black on their fingers.
最庄严的时刻即将到来。他们将立即进行选举。两党领导人都在手指上盘算着白与黑。

The discussion upon Flerov had given the new party not only Flerov’s vote, but had also gained time for them, so that they could send to fetch three noblemen who had been rendered unable to take part in the elections by the wiles of the other party. Two noble gentlemen, who had a weakness for strong drink, had been made drunk by the partisans of Snetkov, and a third had been robbed of his uniform.
关于弗列罗夫的讨论，不仅给新党派带来了弗列罗夫的选票，也为他们赢得了时间，以便他们可以派人去接三名因对方的诡计而无法参加选举的贵族。两位贵族绅士嗜酒如命，被斯涅特科夫的游击队灌醉，第三位绅士的制服被抢走。

On learning this, the new party had made haste, during the dispute about Flerov, to send some of their men in a sledge to clothe the stripped gentleman, and to bring along one of the intoxicated to the meeting.
得知这一消息后，新党在关于弗列罗夫的争论中急忙派出一些人乘雪橇给这位脱光衣服的绅士穿衣服，并带一名醉酒的人来参加会议。

‘I’ve brought one, drenched him with water,’ said the landowner, who had gone on this errand, to Sviazhsky. ‘He’s all right? he’ll do.’
“我带来了一个，用水把他淋湿了，”出差的地主对斯维亚日斯基说道。 ‘他还好吗？他会做的。

‘Not too drunk, he won’t fall down?’ said Sviazhsky, shaking his head.
“喝得不太醉，不会摔倒吧？”斯维亚日斯基摇着头说道。

‘No, he’s first-rate. If only they don’t give him any more here.... I’ve told the waiter not to give him anything on any account.’
‘不，他是一流的。如果他们不再给他这里的东西就好了……我已经告诉服务员无论如何都不要给他任何东西。

Chapter 29
第29章

The narrow room, in which they were smoking and taking refreshments, was full of noblemen. The excitement grew more intense, and every face betrayed some uneasiness. The excitement was specially keen for the leaders of each party, who knew every detail, and had reckoned up every vote. They were the generals organizing the approaching battle. The rest, like the rank and file before an engagement, though they were getting ready for the fight, sought for other distractions in the interval. Some were lunching, standing at the bar, or sitting at the table; others were walking up and down the long room, smoking cigarettes, and talking with friends whom they had not seen for a long while.
狭窄的房间里挤满了贵族，他们在里面抽烟、吃茶点。兴奋之情愈加强烈，每个人的脸上都流露出了几分不安。各党领导人都特别兴奋，他们了解每一个细节，也计算过每一张选票。他们是组织即将到来的战斗的将军。其余的人，就像交战前的普通士兵一样，尽管他们正在为战斗做好准备，但在中场休息时却寻找其他的消遣。有些人正在吃午饭，站在吧台前，或者坐在餐桌旁；有些人则站在吧台前。其他人则在长长的房间里走来走去，一边抽烟，一边和许久未见的朋友聊天。

Levin did not care to eat, and he was not smoking; he did not want to join his own friends, that is Sergey Ivanovitch, Stepan Arkadyevitch, Sviazhsky and the rest, because Vronsky in his equerry’s uniform was standing with them in eager conversation. Levin had seen him already at the meeting on the previous day, and he had studiously avoided him, not caring to greet him. He went to the window and sat down, scanning the groups, and listening to what was being said around him. He felt depressed, especially because everyone else was, as he saw, eager, anxious, and interested, and he alone, with an old, toothless little man with mumbling lips wearing a naval uniform, sitting beside him, had no interest in it and nothing to do.
莱文不想吃饭，也不抽烟。他不想加入自己的朋友，即谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇、斯捷潘·阿尔卡季维奇、斯维亚日斯基等人，因为身着侍从制服的渥伦斯基正与他们站在一起热切地交谈。莱文在前一天的会议上就已经见过他了，他刻意避开他，也懒得打招呼。他走到窗边坐下，扫视着人群，听着周围的议论。他感到沮丧，特别是因为正如他所看到的，其他人都渴望、焦虑和感兴趣，而他独自一人，坐在他旁边，还有一个穿着海军制服、嘴唇嘟哝的老小个子男人，对这件事毫无兴趣，而且没事做。

‘He’s such a blackguard! I have told him so, but it makes no difference. Only think of it! He couldn’t collect it in three years!’ he heard vigorously uttered by a round-shouldered, short, country gentleman, who had pomaded hair hanging on his embroidered collar, and new boots obviously put on for the occasion, with heels that tapped energetically as he spoke. Casting a displeased glance at Levin, this gentleman sharply turned his back.
‘他真是个无赖！我已经告诉过他了，但这没有什么区别。只是想想而已！三年内都收不到！”他听到一位圆肩矮个子乡村绅士用充满活力的语气说道，他的绣花领子上挂着发蜡的头发，显然是为了这个场合穿上了新靴子，鞋跟轻敲着。他说话时充满活力。这位绅士不悦地看了莱文一眼，猛地转过身去。

‘Yes, it’s a dirty business, there’s no denying,’ a small gentleman assented in a high voice.
“是的，这是一件肮脏的事，无可否认，”一位小个子绅士高声同意道。

Next, a whole crowd of country gentlemen, surrounding a stout general, hurriedly came near Levin. These persons were unmistakably seeking a place where they could talk without being overheard.
接下来，一大群乡村绅士，围着一位身材魁梧的将军，急忙来到了莱文身边。毫无疑问，这些人正在寻找一个可以说话而不被偷听的地方。

‘How dare he say I had his breeches stolen! Pawned them for drink, I expect. Damn the fellow, prince indeed! He’d better not say it, the beast!’
“他怎么敢说我把他的马裤偷了！”我想，是把它们当了酒的。该死的家伙，确实是王子！他最好别说出来，野兽！”

‘But excuse me! They take their stand on the act,’ was being said in another group; ‘the wife must be registered as noble.’
'但是请原谅！他们对这一行为采取了自己的立场。”另一个群体中有人这样说道。 “妻子必须登记为贵族。”

‘Oh, damn your acts! I speak from my heart. We’re all gentlemen, aren’t we? Above suspicion.’
‘哦，该死的你的行为！我发自内心地说。我们都是绅士，不是吗？无可怀疑。

‘Shall we go on, your excellency, fine champagne?’
“我们继续吧，阁下，上等香槟吗？”

Another group was following a nobleman, who was shouting something in a loud voice; it was one of the three intoxicated gentlemen.
另一群人跟踪着一位贵族，他大声喊着什么。那是三位醉酒先生之一。

‘I always advised Marya Semyonovna to let for a fair rent, for she can never save a profit,’ he heard a pleasant voice say. The speaker was a country gentleman with gray whiskers, wearing the regimental uniform of an old general staff-officer. It was the very landowner Levin had met at Sviazhsky’s. He knew him at once. The landowner too stared at Levin, and they exchanged greetings.
“我总是建议玛丽亚·谢苗诺夫娜以公平的租金出租，因为她永远无法节省利润，”他听到一个愉快的声音说道。说话的人是一位留着灰色胡须的乡村绅士，穿着一位老总参谋长的团服。这就是列文在斯维亚日斯基家遇见的那位地主。他立刻就认出了他。地主也盯着莱文，两人寒暄了几声。

‘Very glad to see you! To be sure! I remember you very well. Last year at our district marshal, Nikolay Ivanovitch’s.’
‘很高兴见到你！为了确定！我记得你很清楚。去年在我们的地区元帅尼古拉·伊万诺维奇那里。

‘Well, and how is your land doing?’ asked Levin.
“那么，你的土地怎么样了？”莱文问道。

‘Oh, still just the same, always at a loss,’ the landowner answered with a resigned smile, but with an expression of serenity and conviction that so it must be. ‘And how do you come to be in our province?’ he asked. ‘Come to take part in our coup d’etat?’ he said, confidently pronouncing the French words with a bad accent. ‘All Russia’s here—gentlemen of the bedchamber, and everything short of the ministry.’ He pointed to the imposing figure of Stepan Arkadyevitch in white trousers and his court uniform, walking by with a general.
“噢，还是一样，总是不知所措。”地主带着无奈的微笑回答道，但脸上却带着平静和确信，事情一定是这样的。 “你怎么会来到我们省？”他问道。 “来参加我们的政变吗？”他说道，自信地用糟糕的口音发音着法语单词。 “整个俄罗斯都在这儿——内室的先生们，还有除了内阁以外的一切人。”他指着身穿白裤子和宫廷制服的斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇威风凛凛的身影，正和一位将军走过。

‘I ought to own that I don’t very well understand the drift of the provincial elections,’ said Levin.
“我应该承认，我不太了解省级选举的走向，”莱文说。

The landowner looked at him.
地主看着他。

‘Why, what is there to understand? There’s no meaning in it at all. It’s a decaying institution that goes on running only by the force of inertia. Just look, the very uniforms tell you that it’s an assembly of justices of the peace, permanent members of the court, and so on, but not of noblemen.’
‘为什么，有什么好理解的？这根本没有任何意义。这是一个腐朽的机构，仅靠惯性力继续运转。只要看，制服就告诉你，这是一个由太平绅士、法院常任成员等组成的集会，但不是贵族的集会。

‘Then why do you come?’ asked Levin.
“那你为什么来？”莱文问道。

‘From habit, nothing else. Then, too, one must keep up connections. It’s a moral obligation of a sort. And then, to tell the truth, there’s one’s own interests. My son-in-law wants to stand as a permanent member; they’re not rich people, and he must be brought forward. These gentlemen, now, what do they come for?’ he said, pointing to the malignant gentleman, who was talking at the high table.
‘出于习惯，没有别的。然后，人们还必须保持联系。这是某种道德义务。然后，说实话，还有自己的利益。我的女婿想成为常任理事国；他们不是富人，他必须被提拔。现在，这些先生们来干什么？”他指着在高桌旁说话的那位恶毒的先生说道。

‘That’s the new generation of nobility.’
“那是新一代的贵族。”

‘New it may be, but nobility it isn’t. They’re proprietors of a sort, but we’re the landowners. As noblemen, they’re cutting their own throats.’
“它可能是新的，但它不是高贵的。他们是某种业主，但我们是土地所有者。作为贵族，他们正在割断自己的喉咙。

‘But you say it’s an institution that’s served its time.’
“但你说这是一个已经过时的机构了。”

‘That it may be, but still it ought to be treated a little more respectfully. Snetkov, now...We may be of use, or we may not, but we’re the growth of a thousand years. If we’re laying out a garden, planning one before the house, you know, and there you’ve a tree that’s stood for centuries in the very spot.... Old and gnarled it may be, and yet you don’t cut down the old fellow to make room for the flowerbeds, but lay out your beds so as to take advantage of the tree. You won’t grow him again in a year,’ he said cautiously, and he immediately changed the conversation. ‘Well, and how is your land doing?’
“也许是这样，但仍然应该受到更尊重的对待。斯涅特科夫，现在……我们可能有用，也可能没用，但我们是一千年的成长。如果我们正在布置一个花园，在房子之前规划一个花园，你知道，那里有一棵树已经在原地矗立了几个世纪了……它可能又老又粗糙，但你却没有砍倒老家伙，为花坛腾出空间，但布置你的花坛，以便充分利用这棵树。一年之内你就不会再让他长大了。”他小心翼翼地说，然后他立即改变了话题。 “那么，你的土地怎么样了？”

‘Oh, not very well. I make five per cent.’
‘哦，不太好。我赚百分之五。

‘Yes, but you don’t reckon your own work. Aren’t you worth something too? I’ll tell you my own case. Before I took to seeing after the land, I had a salary of three hundred pounds from the service. Now I do more work than I did in the service, and like you I get five per cent. on the land, and thank God for that. But one’s work is thrown in for nothing.’
‘是的，但你不计算你自己的工作。你不也有价值吗？我给你讲一下我自己的案例。在我开始照管土地之前，我从这项服务中获得了三百英镑的工资。现在我做的工作比在军队里做的还要多，而且和你一样，我的工资是百分之五。在这片土地上，并为此感谢上帝。但一个人的工作却白费了。”

‘Then why do you do it, if it’s a clear loss?’
“那你为什么要这样做，如果这是明显的损失呢？”

‘Oh, well, one does it! What would you have? It’s habit, and one knows it’s how it should be. And what’s more,’ the landowner went on, leaning his elbows on the window and chatting on, ‘my son, I must tell you, has no taste for it. There’s no doubt he’ll be a scientific man. So there’ll be no one to keep it up. And yet one does it. Here this year I’ve planted an orchard.’
‘哦，好吧，有人做到了！你想要什么？这是一种习惯，人们知道它应该是这样的。更重要的是，”地主继续说，把胳膊肘靠在窗户上，继续聊天，“我必须告诉你，我的儿子不喜欢它。毫无疑问，他将成为一名科学家。所以不会有人坚持下去。然而有人做到了。今年我在这里种植了一个果园。

‘Yes, yes,’ said Levin, ‘that’s perfectly true. I always feel there’s no real balance of gain in my work on the land, and yet one does it.... It’s a sort of duty one feels to the land.’
“是的，是的，”莱文说，“完全正确。我总觉得我在这片土地上的工作没有真正的收益平衡，但人们还是这么做了……这是一种人们对土地的责任。

‘But I tell you what,’ the landowner pursued; ‘a neighbor of mine, a merchant, was at my place. We walked about the fields and the garden. ‘No,’ said he, ‘Stepan Vassilievitch, everything’s well looked after, but your garden’s neglected.’ But, as a fact, it’s well kept up. ‘To my thinking, I’d cut down that lime-tree. Here you’ve thousands of limes, and each would make two good bundles of bark. And nowadays that bark’s worth something. I’d cut down the lot.’’
“但我告诉你什么，”地主继续说道。 “我的一个邻居，一个商人，在我家。我们在田野和花园里散步。 “不，”他说，“斯捷潘·瓦西里耶维奇，一切都照顾得很好，但你的花园却被忽视了。”但是，事实上，它维护得很好。 “按照我的想法，我会砍掉那棵椴树。这里有数千个酸橙，每个酸橙都可以制成两捆上等的树皮。如今，那树皮还是有价值的。我会砍掉很多。”

‘And with what he made he’d increase his stock, or buy some land for a trifle, and let it out in lots to the peasants,’ Levin added, smiling. He had evidently more than once come across those commercial calculations. ‘And he’d make his fortune. But you and I must thank God if we keep what we’ve got and leave it to our children.’
“用他赚到的钱，他会增加库存，或者花一点钱买一些土地，然后分批分给农民，”莱文微笑着补充道。这些商业算计他显然不止一次遇到过。 “他会发财的。”但如果我们保留我们所拥有的并将其留给我们的孩子，你和我必须感谢上帝。”

‘You’re married, I’ve heard?’ said the landowner.
“我听说你结婚了？”地主问道。

‘Yes,’ Levin answered, with proud satisfaction. ‘Yes, it’s rather strange,’ he went on. ‘So we live without making anything, as though we were ancient vestals set to keep in a fire.’
“是的，”莱文满意地回答。 “是的，这很奇怪，”他继续说道。 “所以我们生活中不制造任何东西，就好像我们是被放在火里的古代贞女一样。”

The landowner chuckled under his white mustaches.
地主在白胡子下咯咯笑。

‘There are some among us, too, like our friend Nikolay Ivanovitch, or Count Vronsky, that’s settled here lately, who try to carry on their husbandry as though it were a factory; but so far it leads to nothing but making away with capital on it.’
“我们当中也有一些人，比如我们的朋友尼古拉·伊万诺维奇，或者最近定居在这里的渥伦斯基伯爵，他们试图像工厂一样继续他们的畜牧业；但到目前为止，除了掠夺资本之外，什么也没有。”

‘But why is it we don’t do like the merchants? Why don’t we cut down our parks for timber?’ said Levin, returning to a thought that had struck him.
“但是为什么我们不像商人那样呢？我们为什么不砍伐我们的公园来获取木材呢？”莱文说道，回到了他突然想到的一个想法。

‘Why, as you said, to keep the fire in. Besides that’s not work for a nobleman. And our work as noblemen isn’t done here at the elections, but yonder, each in our corner. There’s a class instinct, too, of what one ought and oughtn’t to do. There’s the peasants, too, I wonder at them sometimes; any good peasant tries to take all the land he can. However bad the land is, he’ll work it. Without a return too. At a simple loss.’
“为什么，正如你所说，要把火关起来。而且这不是贵族的工作。”作为贵族，我们的工作不是在选举中完成的，而是在远处，在我们每个角落里完成的。还有一种阶级本能，即人们应该做什么和不应该做什么。还有农民，我有时对他们感到奇怪；任何一个好农民都会尽力夺取所有他能拥有的土地。无论土地多么糟糕，他都会耕种。亦无回报。简单的损失。

‘Just as we do,’ said Levin. ‘Very, very glad to have met you,’ he added, seeing Sviazhsky approaching him.
“就像我们一样，”莱文说。 “非常非常高兴见到你，”他补充道，看到斯维亚日斯基向他走来。

‘And here we’ve met for the first time since we met at your place,’ said the landowner to Sviazhsky, ‘and we’ve had a good talk too.’
“自从我们在你家见面以来，这是我们第一次见面，”地主对斯维亚日斯基说，“我们也聊得很开心。”

‘Well, have you been attacking the new order of things?’ said Sviazhsky with a smile.
“嗯，你一直在攻击新秩序吗？”斯维亚日斯基微笑着说道。

‘That we’re bound to do.’
“这是我们必须做的。”

‘You’ve relieved your feelings?’
“你的心情缓解了吗？”

Chapter 30
第30章

Sviazhsky took Levin’s arm, and went with him to his own friends. This time there was no avoiding Vronsky. He was standing with Stepan Arkadyevitch and Sergey Ivanovitch, and looking straight at Levin as he drew near.
斯维亚日斯基挽着列文的手臂，和他一起去见他自己的朋友们。这一次，渥伦斯基无法回避。他和斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇和谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇站在一起，当列文走近时，他直视着他。

‘Delighted! I believe I’ve had the pleasure of meeting you...at Princess Shtcherbatskaya’s,’ he said, giving Levin his hand.
'高兴极了！我想我很高兴在谢尔巴茨卡娅公主家里见到你。”他一边说，一边向莱文伸出了手。

‘Yes, I quite remember our meeting,’ said Levin, and blushing crimson, he turned away immediately, and began talking to his brother.
“是的，我清楚地记得我们的会面，”莱文脸红了，立即转过身去，开始和他的兄弟说话。

With a slight smile Vronsky went on talking to Sviazhsky, obviously without the slightest inclination to enter into conversation with Levin. But Levin, as he talked to his brother, was continually looking round at Vronsky, trying to think of something to say to him to gloss over his rudeness.
渥伦斯基微微一笑，继续和斯维亚日斯基说话，显然没有丝毫想和列文交谈的意思。但列文在与他的兄弟交谈时，不断地看着渥伦斯基，试图想出一些话来对他说些什么，以掩饰他的粗鲁。

‘What are we waiting for now?’ asked Levin, looking at Sviazhsky and Vronsky.
“我们现在还等什么？”列文看着斯维亚日斯基和渥伦斯基问道。

‘For Snetkov. He has to refuse or to consent to stand,’ answered Sviazhsky.
“为了斯涅特科夫。”他必须拒绝或同意起立，”斯维亚日斯基回答道。

‘Well, and what has he done, consented or not?’
“那么，他做了什么，同意与否？”

‘That’s the point, that he’s done neither,’ said Vronsky.
“这就是重点，他两者都没有做到，”渥伦斯基说。

‘And if he refuses, who will stand then?’ asked Levin, looking at Vronsky.
“如果他拒绝，那么谁会站出来呢？”列文看着渥伦斯基问道。

‘Whoever chooses to,’ said Sviazhsky.
“无论谁选择，”斯维亚日斯基说。

‘Shall you?’ asked Levin.
“你愿意吗？”莱文问道。

‘Certainly not I,’ said Sviazhsky, looking confused, and turning an alarmed glance at the malignant gentleman, who was standing beside Sergey Ivanovitch.
“当然不是我，”斯维亚日斯基说道，他一脸困惑，转过头警惕地看了一眼站在谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇旁边的恶毒的绅士。

‘Who then? Nevyedovsky?’ said Levin, feeling he was putting his foot into it.
‘那是谁呢？涅维耶多夫斯基？”列文说道，感觉自己正在踏入其中。

But this was worse still. Nevyedovsky and Sviazhsky were the two candidates.
但这更糟。涅维耶多夫斯基和斯维亚日斯基是两名候选人。

‘I certainly shall not, under any circumstances,’ answered the malignant gentleman.
“无论如何，我当然不会，”恶毒的绅士回答道。

This was Nevyedovsky himself. Sviazhsky introduced him to Levin.
这就是涅维耶多夫斯基本人。斯维亚日斯基把他介绍给莱文。

‘Well, you find it exciting too?’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch, winking at Vronsky. ‘It’s something like a race. One might bet on it.’
“嗯，你也觉得这很令人兴奋吗？”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇对渥伦斯基挤挤眼，说道。 ‘这就像一场比赛。人们可能会打赌。

‘Yes, it is keenly exciting,’ said Vronsky. ‘And once taking the thing up, one’s eager to see it through. It’s a fight!’ he said, scowling and setting his powerful jaws.
“是的，这非常令人兴奋，”渥伦斯基说。 “一旦接手这件事，人们就会渴望把它看完。”这是一场战斗！”他皱起眉头，咬紧牙关说道。

‘What a capable fellow Sviazhsky is! Sees it all so clearly.’
‘斯维亚日斯基真是个能干的家伙！一切都看得如此清楚。

‘Oh, yes!’ Vronsky assented indifferently.
“哦，是的！”渥伦斯基漠然地答应道。

A silence followed, during which Vronsky—since he had to look at something—looked at Levin, at his feet, at his uniform, then at his face, and noticing his gloomy eyes fixed upon him, he said, in order to say something:
接下来是一阵沉默，在此期间渥伦斯基——因为他必须看什么东西——看看莱文，看看他的脚，看看他的制服，然后看看他的脸，注意到他阴沉的眼睛盯着他，他说，为了说些什么：

‘How is it that you, living constantly in the country, are not a justice of the peace? You are not in the uniform of one.’
‘你常年生活在乡下，怎么就不是治安法官呢？你不穿制服。

‘It’s because I consider that the justice of the peace is a silly institution,’ Levin answered gloomily. He had been all the time looking for an opportunity to enter into conversation with Vronsky, so as to smooth over his rudeness at their first meeting.
“因为我认为治安法官是一个愚蠢的机构，”莱文阴沉地回答道。他一直在寻找机会与渥伦斯基交谈，以平息第一次见面时的无礼行为。

‘I don’t think so, quite the contrary,’ Vronsky said, with quiet surprise.
“我不这么认为，恰恰相反，”渥伦斯基带着平静的惊讶说道。

‘It’s a plaything,’ Levin cut him short. ‘We don’t want justices of the peace. I’ve never had a single thing to do with them during eight years. And what I have had was decided wrongly by them. The justice of the peace is over thirty miles from me. For some matter of two roubles I should have to send a lawyer, who costs me fifteen.’
“这是一个玩具，”莱文打断他的话。 “我们不需要太平绅士。八年来我从来没有和他们做过任何事。而我所拥有的一切都是他们错误的决定。治安法官距离我有三十多英里。为了两卢布的事情，我必须派一名律师，花费我十五卢布。

And he related how a peasant had stolen some flour from the miller, and when the miller told him of it, had lodged a complaint for slander. All this was utterly uncalled for and stupid, and Levin felt it himself as he said it.
他还讲述了一个农民如何从磨坊主那里偷了一些面粉，当磨坊主告诉他这件事时，他提出了诽谤投诉。这一切都是毫无道理和愚蠢的，莱文说这话时自己也感觉到了。

‘Oh, this is such an original fellow!’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch with his most soothing, almond-oil smile. ‘But come along; I think they’re voting....’
“哦，这真是一个很有创意的家伙！”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇带着他最令人安心的杏仁油微笑说道。 “但是来吧；我认为他们正在投票……”

And they separated.
他们分开了。

‘I can’t understand,’ said Sergey Ivanovitch, who had observed his brother’s clumsiness, ‘I can’t understand how anyone can be so absolutely devoid of political tact. That’s where we Russians are so deficient. The marshal of the province is our opponent, and with him you’re ami cochon, and you beg him to stand. Count Vronsky, now ...I’m not making a friend of him; he’s asked me to dinner, and I’m not going; but he’s one of our side—why make an enemy of him? Then you ask Nevyedovsky if he’s going to stand. That’s not a thing to do.’
“我无法理解，”谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇（Sergey Ivanovitch）观察到了他哥哥的笨拙，说道，“我无法理解一个人怎么会如此缺乏政治机智。”这就是我们俄罗斯人的不足之处。省元帅是我们的对手，和他在一起你就是阿米科琼，你求他站起来。渥伦斯基伯爵，现在……我不是要和他交朋友；我不是要和他交朋友。他请我吃饭，我不去；但他是我们这边的一员——为什么要与他为敌呢？然后你问涅维耶多夫斯基他是否会站起来。这不是一件该做的事。

‘Oh, I don’t understand it at all! And it’s all such nonsense,’ Levin answered gloomily.
‘哎呀，我根本不明白！这都是胡说八道。”莱文阴沉地回答道。

‘You say it’s all such nonsense, but as soon as you have anything to do with it, you make a muddle.’
“你说这些都是废话，但一扯上关系，你就糊涂了。”

Levin did not answer, and they walked together into the big room.
莱文没有回答，两人一起走进了大房间。

The marshal of the province, though he was vaguely conscious in the air of some trap being prepared for him, and though he had not been called upon by all to stand, had still made up his mind to stand. All was silence in the room. The secretary announced in a loud voice that the captain of the guards, Mihail Stepanovitch Snetkov, would now be balloted for as marshal of the province.
省元帅虽然隐隐约约感觉到有人在为他准备陷阱，虽然没有人叫他站起来，但他还是决定站起来。房间里一片寂静。秘书大声宣布，卫队队长米哈伊尔·斯捷潘诺维奇·斯涅特科夫现在将被选为该省元帅。

The district marshals walked carrying plates, on which were balls, from their tables to the high table, and the election began.
地区执法官们端着盘子，上面放着球，从他们的桌子走到高桌，选举开始了。

‘Put it in the right side,’ whispered Stepan Arkadyevitch, as with his brother Levin followed the marshal of his district to the table. But Levin had forgotten by now the calculations that had been explained to him, and was afraid Stepan Arkadyevitch might be mistaken in saying ‘the right side.’ Surely Snetkov was the enemy. As he went up, he held the ball in his right hand, but thinking he was wrong, just at the box he changed to the left hand, and undoubtedly put the ball to the left. An adept in the business, standing at the box and seeing by the mere action of the elbow where each put his ball, scowled with annoyance. It was no good for him to use his insight.
“把它放在右边，”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇低声说道，他和他的兄弟列文一起跟随他所在地区的元帅来到桌子旁。但列文现在已经忘记了向他解释过的计算，并且担心斯捷潘·阿尔卡季维奇可能会错误地说“右侧”。斯涅特科夫肯定是敌人。当他上前时，他右手拿球，但他以为自己错了，刚到禁区他就换成了左手，毫无疑问把球推到了左边。一个行家，站在包厢前，仅仅通过肘部的动作就能看到每个人把球放在哪里，恼怒地皱起眉头。运用他的洞察力对他来说是没有好处的。

Everything was still, and the counting of the balls was heard. Then a single voice rose and proclaimed the numbers for and against. The marshal had been voted for by a considerable majority. All was noise and eager movement towards the doors. Snetkov came in, and the nobles thronged round him, congratulating him.
一切都很安静，数球的声音也能听见。然后一个声音响起，宣布支持和反对的人数。这位元帅是由绝大多数人投票选出的。一切都是噪音和急切的走向门口的动作。斯涅特科夫进来了，贵族们簇拥在他周围，向他表示祝贺。

‘Well, now is it over?’ Levin asked Sergey Ivanovitch.
“好了，现在结束了吗？”列文问谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇。

‘It’s only just beginning,’ Sviazhsky said, replying for Sergey Ivanovitch with a smile. ‘Some other candidate may receive more votes than the marshal.’
“这才刚刚开始，”斯维亚日斯基笑着回答谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇。 “其他一些候选人可能会比元帅获得更多的选票。”

Levin had quite forgotten about that. Now he could only remember that there was some sort of trickery in it, but he was too bored to think what it was exactly. He felt depressed, and longed to get out of the crowd.
莱文已经完全忘记了这一点。现在他只记得其中有某种诡计，但他太无聊了，无法思考到底是什么。他感到沮丧，渴望离开人群。

As no one was paying any attention to him, and no one apparently needed him, he quietly slipped away into the little room where the refreshments were, and again had a great sense of comfort when he saw the waiters. The little old waiter pressed him to have something, and Levin agreed. After eating a cutlet with beans and talking to the waiters of their former masters, Levin, not wishing to go back to the hall, where it was all so distasteful to him, proceeded to walk through the galleries. The galleries were full of fashionably dressed ladies, leaning over the balustrade and trying not to lose a single word of what was being said below. With the ladies were sitting and standing smart lawyers, high school teachers in spectacles, and officers. Everywhere they were talking of the election, and of how worried the marshal was, and how splendid the discussions had been. In one group Levin heard his brother’s praises. One lady was telling a lawyer:
由于没有人理睬他，显然也没有人需要他，他就悄悄溜进了放茶点的小房间里，看到服务员的时候，再次感到一种莫大的安慰。小个子老服务员催促他要点东西，莱文答应了。吃完一份豆子炸肉排并与前任主人的侍者交谈后，莱文不想再回到大厅，因为那里的一切对他来说都是如此令人厌恶，于是他开始穿过画廊。画廊里挤满了衣着时尚的女士，她们靠在栏杆上，努力不漏掉下面所说的话。女士们坐着或站着，有聪明的律师、戴眼镜的高中老师和官员。他们到处都在谈论选举，谈论元帅是多么担心，以及讨论是多么精彩。在一群人中，莱文听到了他哥哥的赞扬。一位女士告诉律师：

‘How glad I am I heard Koznishev! It’s worth losing one’s dinner. He’s exquisite! So clear and distinct all of it! There’s not one of you in the law courts that speaks like that. The only one is Meidel, and he’s not so eloquent by a long way.’
“我很高兴听到科兹尼舍夫的声音！失去晚餐是值得的。他很精致！一切都那么清晰明了！法庭上没有人会这样说话。唯一的一个就是梅德尔，而且他远没有那么能言善道。

Finding a free place, Levin leaned over the balustrade and began looking and listening.
莱文找到一个空闲的地方，靠在栏杆上，开始观察和倾听。

All the noblemen were sitting railed off behind barriers according to their districts. In the middle of the room stood a man in a uniform, who shouted in a loud, high voice:
所有的贵族都根据自己的地区坐在栅栏后面。房间中央站着一名穿着制服的男子，他大声喊道：

‘As a candidate for the marshalship of the nobility of the province we call upon staff-captain Yevgeney Ivanovitch Apuhtin!’ A dead silence followed, and then a weak old voice was heard: ‘Declined!’
“作为该省贵族元帅的候选人，我们请参谋上尉叶夫根尼·伊万诺维奇·阿普金！”接着是死一般的寂静，然后听到一个微弱而苍老的声音：“拒绝！”

‘We call upon the privy councilor Pyotr Petrovitch Bol,’ the voice began again.
“我们请枢密院议员彼得·彼得罗维奇·波尔来，”那个声音又开始了。

‘Declined!’ a high boyish voice replied.
“拒绝！”一个高亢的孩子气的声音回答道。

Again it began, and again ‘Declined.’ And so it went on for about an hour. Levin, with his elbows on the balustrade, looked and listened. At first he wondered and wanted to know what it meant; then feeling sure that he could not make it out he began to be bored. Then recalling all the excitement and vindictiveness he had seen on all the faces, he felt sad; he made up his mind to go, and went downstairs. As he passed through the entry to the galleries he met a dejected high school boy walking up and down with tired-looking eyes. On the stairs he met a couple—a lady running quickly on her high heels and the jaunty deputy prosecutor.
又开始了，又是“拒绝”。就这样持续了大约一个小时。莱文把胳膊肘撑在栏杆上，一边看一边听。起初他很想知道这意味着什么。然后他确信自己听不懂，他开始感到无聊。然后想起他在每个人脸上看到的兴奋和斗气，他感到悲伤；他打定主意要走，便下了楼。当他穿过画廊的入口时，他遇到了一个沮丧的高中男孩，带着疲倦的眼神来回走动。在楼梯上，他遇到了一对情侣——一位踩着高跟鞋飞快奔跑的女士和一位神气十足的副检察官。

‘I told you you weren’t late,’ the deputy prosecutor was saying at the moment when Levin moved aside to let the lady pass.
“我告诉过你，你没有迟到。”当莱文闪到一边让那位女士通过时，副检察官正在说。

Levin was on the stairs to the way out, and was just feeling in his waistcoat pocket for the number of his overcoat, when the secretary overtook him.
莱文正在通向出口的楼梯上，正要在背心口袋里摸索大衣的号码，这时秘书追上了他。

‘This way, please, Konstantin Dmitrievitch; they are voting.’
“请这边走，康斯坦丁·德米特里耶维奇；他们正在投票。

The candidate who was being voted on was Nevyedovsky, who had so stoutly denied all idea of standing. Levin went up to the door of the room; it was locked. The secretary knocked, the door opened, and Levin was met by two red-faced gentlemen, who darted out.
接受投票的候选人是涅维耶多夫斯基，他坚决否认任何参选的想法。莱文走到房间门口。它被锁了。秘书敲了敲门，门开了，莱文遇到了两位红脸先生，他们冲了出去。

‘I can’t stand any more of it,’ said one red-faced gentleman.
“我再也受不了了，”一位红脸先生说道。

After them the face of the marshal of the province was poked out. His face was dreadful-looking from exhaustion and dismay.
在他们身后，省元帅的脸被探了出来。他的脸色因疲惫和沮丧而显得可怕。

‘I told you not to let any one out!’ he cried to the doorkeeper.
“我告诉过你不要放任何人出去！”他对门卫喊道。

‘I let someone in, your excellency!’
“我让人进来了，阁下！”

‘Mercy on us!’ and with a heavy sigh the marshal of the province walked with downcast head to the high table in the middle of the room, his legs staggering in his white trousers.
“可怜我们吧！”省元帅重重地叹了口气，低着头走向房间中央的高桌，双腿在白色长裤中踉踉跄跄地走去。

Nevyedovsky had scored a higher majority, as they had planned, and he was the new marshal of the province. Many people were amused, many were pleased and happy, many were in ecstasies, many were disgusted and unhappy. The former marshal of the province was in a state of despair, which he could not conceal. When Nevyedovsky went out of the room, the crowd thronged round him and followed him enthusiastically, just as they had followed the governor who had opened the meetings, and just as they had followed Snetkov when he was elected.
正如他们计划的那样，涅维耶多夫斯基获得了更高的多数票，他成为了该省的新元帅。许多人被逗乐了，许多人高兴、高兴，许多人狂喜，许多人厌恶、不高兴。这位前省元帅的心情是无法掩饰的绝望。当涅维耶多夫斯基走出房间时，人群簇拥在他周围，热情地跟随他，就像他们跟随宣布会议开幕的州长，就像他们跟随斯涅特科夫当选时一样。

Chapter 31
第31章

The newly elected marshal and many of the successful party dined that day with Vronsky.
当天，新当选的元帅和许多成功人士与渥伦斯基共进晚餐。

Vronsky had come to the elections partly because he was bored in the country and wanted to show Anna his right to independence, and also to repay Sviazhsky by his support at the election for all the trouble he had taken for Vronsky at the district council election, but chiefly in order strictly to perform all those duties of a nobleman and landowner which he had taken upon himself. But he had not in the least expected that the election would so interest him, so keenly excite him, and that he would be so good at this kind of thing. He was quite a new man in the circle of the nobility of the province, but his success was unmistakable, and he was not wrong in supposing that he had already obtained a certain influence. This influence was due to his wealth and reputation, the capital house in the town lent him by his old friend Shirkov, who had a post in the department of finances and was director of a flourishing bank in Kashin; the excellent cook Vronsky had brought from the country, and his friendship with the governor, who was a schoolfellow of Vronsky’s—a schoolfellow he had patronized and protected indeed. But what contributed more than all to his success was his direct, equable manner with everyone, which very quickly made the majority of the noblemen reverse the current opinion of his supposed haughtiness. He was himself conscious that, except that whimsical gentleman married to Kitty Shtcherbatskaya, who had a propos de bottes poured out a stream of irrelevant absurdities with such spiteful fury, every nobleman with whom he had made acquaintance had become his adherent. He saw clearly, and other people recognized it, too, that he had done a great deal to secure the success of Nevyedovsky. And now at his own table, celebrating Nevyedovsky’s election, he was experiencing an agreeable sense of triumph over the success of his candidate. The election itself had so fascinated him that, if he could succeed in getting married during the next three years, he began to think of standing himself—much as after winning a race ridden by a jockey, he had longed to ride a race himself.
渥伦斯基参加选举的部分原因是他在乡下感到无聊，想向安娜展示他的独立权利，同时也通过他在选举中的支持来报答斯维亚日斯基在区议会选举中给渥伦斯基带来的麻烦，但主要是为了严格履行他自己承担的贵族和地主的所有职责。但他丝毫没有想到，这次选举会让他如此感兴趣，如此激动，如此擅长这种事情。他在省里的贵族圈子里还是个新人，但他的成功却是毋庸置疑的，他认为自己已经获得了一定的影响力也没有错。这种影响力来自于他的财富和声誉，镇上的首府大宅是他的老朋友希尔科夫借给他的，希尔科夫在财务部门任职，是卡申一家生意兴隆的银行的董事；渥伦斯基从乡下带来的优秀厨师，以及他与州长的友谊，州长是渥伦斯基的同学——他确实资助和保护了一位同学。但对他的成功最重要的是他对每个人的直接、平等的态度，这很快就使大多数贵族改变了目前对他所谓的傲慢的看法。他自己也意识到，除了那位与基蒂·谢尔巴茨卡娅结婚的异想天开的绅士，他的提案充满恶意地狂吐出一连串无关紧要的荒唐话之外，他所认识的每一个贵族都成了他的追随者。他清楚地看到，其他人也认识到，他为确保涅维多夫斯基的成功做了很多事情。 现在，他在自己的餐桌上庆祝涅维耶多夫斯基的当选，他对自己的候选人的成功感到一种愉快的胜利感。选举本身让他如此着迷，以至于如果他能在未来三年内成功结婚，他就开始考虑自己站起来——就像在赢得一场由骑师骑马的比赛后，他渴望自己参加一场比赛一样。

Today he was celebrating the success of his jockey. Vronsky sat at the head of the table, on his right hand sat the young governor, a general of high rank. To all the rest he was the chief man in the province, who had solemnly opened the elections with his speech, and aroused a feeling of respect and even of awe in many people, as Vronsky saw; to Vronsky he was little Katka Maslov—that had been his nickname in the Pages’ Corps—whom he felt to be shy and tried to mettre a son aise. On the left hand sat Nevyedovsky with his youthful, stubborn, and malignant face. With him Vronsky was simple and deferential.
今天他正在庆祝他的骑师的成功。渥伦斯基坐在桌子的一头，他的右手边坐着年轻的总督，一位高级将军。对于其他人来说，他是该省的主要人物，他以演讲庄严地拉开了选举的序幕，并引起了许多人的尊重甚至敬畏，正如渥伦斯基所见；对渥伦斯基来说，他是小卡卡·马斯洛夫——这是他在佩吉军团中的绰号——他觉得她很害羞，并试图结识一个儿子艾斯。左手边坐着涅维耶多夫斯基，他的脸年轻、顽固、恶毒。渥伦斯基对他态度简单而恭敬。

Sviazhsky took his failure very light-heartedly. It was indeed no failure in his eyes, as he said himself, turning, glass in hand, to Nevyedovsky; they could not have found a better representative of the new movement, which the nobility ought to follow. And so every honest person, as he said, was on the side of today’s success and was rejoicing over it.
斯维亚日斯基对自己的失败表现得很轻松。正如他自己所说，在他眼里这确实不是失败，他手里拿着玻璃，转向涅维耶多夫斯基。他们不可能找到新运动的更好代表，贵族们应该追随这一运动。因此，正如他所说，每个诚实的人都站在今天的成功一边，并为此感到高兴。

Stepan Arkadyevitch was glad, too, that he was having a good time, and that everyone was pleased. The episode of the elections served as a good occasion for a capital dinner. Sviazhsky comically imitated the tearful discourse of the marshal, and observed, addressing Nevyedovsky, that his excellency would have to select another more complicated method of auditing the accounts than tears. Another nobleman jocosely described how footmen in stockings had been ordered for the marshal’s ball, and how now they would have to be sent back unless the new marshal would give a ball with footmen in stockings.
斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇也很高兴，因为他玩得很开心，每个人都很高兴。选举期间是举行首都晚宴的好时机。斯维亚日斯基滑稽地模仿了元帅含泪的话语，并对涅维耶多夫斯基说，大人必须选择另一种比眼泪更复杂的审计账目方法。另一位贵族开玩笑地描述了如何命令穿着长袜的男仆参加元帅的舞会，以及现在他们将不得不被送回去，除非新任元帅愿意与穿长袜的男仆一起举办舞会。

Continually during dinner they said of Nevyedovsky: ‘our marshal,’ and ‘your excellency.’
晚餐时，他们不断地提到涅维多夫斯基：“我们的元帅”和“阁下”。

This was said with the same pleasure with which a bride is called ‘Madame’ and her husband’s name. Nevyedovsky affected to be not merely indifferent but scornful of this appellation, but it was obvious that he was highly delighted, and had to keep a curb on himself not to betray the triumph which was unsuitable to their new liberal tone.
说这句话的时候，就像称呼新娘为“夫人”和称呼她丈夫的名字一样。涅维耶多夫斯基假装对这个称谓不仅漠不关心，而且蔑视，但显然他非常高兴，并且必须克制自己，不要暴露胜利，这与他们新的自由主义语气不相称。

After dinner several telegrams were sent to people interested in the result of the election. And Stepan Arkadyevitch, who was in high good humor, sent Darya Alexandrovna a telegram: ‘Nevyedovsky elected by twenty votes. Congratulations. Tell people.’ He dictated it aloud, saying: ‘We must let them share our rejoicing.’ Darya Alexandrovna, getting the message, simply sighed over the rouble wasted on it, and understood that it was an after-dinner affair. She knew Stiva had a weakness after dining for faire jouer le telegraphe.
晚餐后，几封电报被发送给对选举结果感兴趣的人们。心情很好的斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇给达里娅·亚历山德罗芙娜发了一封电报：“涅维耶多夫斯基以二十票当选。”恭喜。告诉人们。”他大声口述道：“我们必须让他们分享我们的喜悦。” 达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜明白了这一点，只是为浪费的卢布叹了口气，并明白这是晚饭后的事情。在为《faire jouer le telegraphe》用餐后，她知道斯蒂瓦有一个弱点。

Everything, together with the excellent dinner and the wine, not from Russian merchants, but imported direct from abroad, was extremely dignified, simple, and enjoyable. The party—some twenty—had been selected by Sviazhsky from among the more active new liberals, all of the same way of thinking, who were at the same time clever and well bred. They drank, also half in jest, to the health of the new marshal of the province, of the governor, of the bank director, and of ‘our amiable host.’
一切，加上精美的晚餐和美酒，不是来自俄罗斯商人，而是从国外直接进口的，非常端庄、简单、令人愉快。该党约有二十人，是斯维亚日斯基从较为活跃的新自由主义者中挑选出来的，他们都具有相同的思维方式，同时又聪明又受过良好的教养。他们半开玩笑地为该省新任元帅、省长、银行董事和“我们可爱的东道主”的健康干杯。

Vronsky was satisfied. He had never expected to find so pleasant a tone in the provinces.
渥伦斯基很满意。他没想到在外省会发现如此愉快的语气。

Towards the end of dinner it was still more lively. The governor asked Vronsky to come to a concert for the benefit of the Servians which his wife, who was anxious to make his acquaintance, had been getting up.
晚饭快结束时，气氛更加热闹。总督邀请渥伦斯基来参加一场为塞尔维亚人举办的音乐会，他的妻子急于结识他，已经起床了。

‘There’ll be a ball, and you’ll see the belle of the province. Worth seeing, really.’
“会有一个舞会，你会见到这个省的美女。真的值得一看。

‘Not in my line,’ Vronsky answered. He liked that English phrase. But he smiled, and promised to come.
“不符合我的路线，”渥伦斯基回答道。他喜欢那个英语短语。但他微笑着，答应会来。

Before they rose from the table, when all of them were smoking, Vronsky’s valet went up to him with a letter on a tray.
在他们从桌子上站起来之前，当他们都在抽烟时，渥伦斯基的男仆走到他面前，托盘上放着一封信。

‘From Vozdvizhenskoe by special messenger,’ he said with a significant expression.
“特使从沃兹德维任斯科派来的，”他表情意味深长地说。

‘Astonishing! how like he is to the deputy prosecutor Sventitsky,’ said one of the guests in French of the valet, while Vronsky, frowning, read the letter.
'惊人！ “他对副检察官斯文提茨基有多像。”一位客人用法语对贴身男仆说道，而渥伦斯基则皱着眉头读着这封信。

The letter was from Anna. Before he read the letter, he knew its contents. Expecting the elections to be over in five days, he had promised to be back on Friday. Today was Saturday, and he knew that the letter contained reproaches for not being back at the time fixed. The letter he had sent the previous evening had probably not reached her yet.
这封信是安娜寄来的。在读信之前，他就知道信的内容了。他预计选举将在五天内结束，因此承诺周五回来。今天是星期六，他知道信中包含着对没有按时回来的责备。他前一天晚上寄出的信可能还没有到达她的手中。

The letter was what he had expected, but the form of it was unexpected, and particularly disagreeable to him. ‘Annie is very ill, the doctor says it may be inflammation. I am losing my head all alone. Princess Varvara is no help, but a hindrance. I expected you the day before yesterday, and yesterday, and now I am sending to find out where you are and what you are doing. I wanted to come myself, but thought better of it, knowing you would dislike it. Send some answer, that I may know what to do.’
这封信是他所预料的，但它的形式却出乎他的意料，而且让他特别不舒服。 ‘安妮病得很重，医生说可能是炎症。我独自一人失去了理智。瓦尔瓦拉公主不但没有帮助，反而是一个障碍。我前天和昨天都在等你，现在我派人去看看你在哪里、在做什么。我本来想自己来，但又考虑了一下，因为我知道你会不喜欢它。请发送一些答案，以便我知道该怎么做。

The child ill, yet she had thought of coming herself. Their daughter ill, and this hostile tone.
孩子病了，她却想自己来。他们的女儿生病了，而且语气充满敌意。

The innocent festivities over the election, and this gloomy, burdensome love to which he had to return struck Vronsky by their contrast. But he had to go, and by the first train that night he set off home.
选举期间天真无邪的庆祝活动和他不得不回归的这种阴郁、沉重的爱情形成了鲜明的对比，这让渥伦斯基感到震惊。但他必须走，当晚他就乘第一班火车回家了。

Chapter 32
第32章

Before Vronsky’s departure for the elections, Anna had reflected that the scenes constantly repeated between them each time he left home, might only make him cold to her instead of attaching him to her, and resolved to do all she could to control herself so as to bear the parting with composure. But the cold, severe glance with which he had looked at her when he came to tell her he was going had wounded her, and before he had started her peace of mind was destroyed.
在渥伦斯基出发去参加选举之前，安娜就想到，每次他离家时，她们之间不断重复的场景，可能只会让他对她冷淡，而不是依恋他，并决心尽一切努力控制自己，以便平静地承受离别。但当他来告诉她他要走时，他用冷酷、严厉的眼神伤害了她，在他开始之前，她内心的平静就被破坏了。

In solitude afterwards, thinking over that glance which had expressed his right to freedom, she came, as she always did, to the same point—the sense of her own humiliation. ‘He has the right to go away when and where he chooses. Not simply to go away, but to leave me. He has every right, and I have none. But knowing that, he ought not to do it. What has he done, though?... He looked at me with a cold, severe expression. Of course that is something indefinable, impalpable, but it has never been so before, and that glance means a great deal,’ she thought. ‘That glance shows the beginning of indifference.’
后来在孤独中，回想起那一瞥，那眼神表达了他的自由权利，她像往常一样，想到了同样的一点——她自己的屈辱感。 “他有权选择何时何地离开。不仅仅是离开，而是离开我。他有一切权利，而我却没有。但既然知道这一点，他就不应该这么做。但他做了什么？……他用冷酷严厉的表情看着我。当然，那是一种难以定义、难以捉摸的东西，但以前从未如此，而那一瞥意义重大，”她想。 “那眼神表明了冷漠的开始。”

And though she felt sure that a coldness was beginning, there was nothing she could do, she could not in any way alter her relations to him. Just as before, only by love and by charm could she keep him. And so, just as before, only by occupation in the day, by morphine at night, could she stifle the fearful thought of what would be if he ceased to love her. It is true there was still one means; not to keep him—for that she wanted nothing more than his love—but to be nearer to him, to be in such a position that he would not leave her. That means was divorce and marriage. And she began to long for that, and made up her mind to agree to it the first time he or Stiva approached her on the subject.
尽管她确信冷漠正在开始，但她无能为力，她无法以任何方式改变她与他的关系。和以前一样，只有爱情和魅力，她才能留住他。因此，就像以前一样，只有白天的忙碌，晚上的吗啡，她才能抑制住对如果他不再爱她将会发生的可怕想法。确实，还有一种办法，那就是：不是为了留住他——因为她想要的只是他的爱——而是为了离他更近，让他不会离开她。这意味着离婚和结婚。她开始渴望这一点，并在他或斯蒂瓦第一次就这个话题与她接触时就决定同意。

Absorbed in such thoughts, she passed five days without him, the five days that he was to be at the elections.
她全神贯注于这样的想法，在没有他的情况下度过了五天，这五天是他参加选举的五天。

Walks, conversation with Princess Varvara, visits to the hospital, and, most of all, reading—reading of one book after another—filled up her time. But on the sixth day, when the coachman came back without him, she felt that now she was utterly incapable of stifling the thought of him and of what he was doing there, just at that time her little girl was taken ill. Anna began to look after her, but even that did not distract her mind, especially as the illness was not serious. However hard she tried, she could not love this little child, and to feign love was beyond her powers. Towards the evening of that day, still alone, Anna was in such a panic about him that she decided to start for the town, but on second thoughts wrote him the contradictory letter that Vronsky received, and without reading it through, sent it off by a special messenger. The next morning she received his letter and regretted her own. She dreaded a repetition of the severe look he had flung at her at parting, especially when he knew that the baby was not dangerously ill. But still she was glad she had written to him. At this moment Anna was positively admitting to herself that she was a burden to him, that he would relinquish his freedom regretfully to return to her, and in spite of that she was glad he was coming. Let him weary of her, but he would be here with her, so that she would see him, would know of every action he took.
散步、与瓦尔瓦拉公主交谈、拜访医院，以及最重要的是，阅读——一本又一本地阅读——占据了她的时间。但第六天，当车夫回来时，他却没有带回来，她觉得现在她完全无法抑制对他和他在那里所做的事情的思考，就在那时，她的小女儿病了。安娜开始照顾她，但即便如此，她也没有分心，尤其是她的病并不严重。无论她如何努力，她都无法爱这个小孩子，假装爱也超出了她的能力。那天晚上，安娜仍然独自一人，对他感到如此恐慌，以至于她决定出发去城里，但转念一想，她给他写了一封渥伦斯基收到的矛盾的信，没有读完，就寄给了他。一个特殊的使者。第二天早上，她收到了他的信，并对自己的信感到后悔。她害怕再次看到他临别时向她投来的严厉目光，尤其是当他知道孩子并没有病得很严重时。但她仍然很高兴给他写信。此时安娜正在积极地向自己承认她是他的负担，他会遗憾地放弃自由回到她身边，尽管如此，她还是很高兴他能来。让他厌倦她吧，但他会在她身边，这样她就能看到他，知道他所做的每一个举动。

She was sitting in the drawing room near a lamp, with a new volume of Taine, and as she read, listening to the sound of the wind outside, and every minute expecting the carriage to arrive. Several times she had fancied she heard the sound of wheels, but she had been mistaken. At last she heard not the sound of wheels, but the coachman’s shout and the dull rumble in the covered entry. Even Princess Varvara, playing patience, confirmed this, and Anna, flushing hotly, got up; but instead of going down, as she had done twice before, she stood still. She suddenly felt ashamed of her duplicity, but even more she dreaded how he might meet her. All feeling of wounded pride had passed now; she was only afraid of the expression of his displeasure. She remembered that her child had been perfectly well again for the last two days. She felt positively vexed with her for getting better from the very moment her letter was sent off. Then she thought of him, that he was here, all of him, with his hands, his eyes. She heard his voice. And forgetting everything, she ran joyfully to meet him.
她坐在客厅里，靠近一盏灯，手里拿着泰纳的新卷，一边读，一边听着外面的风声，每一分钟都在等待着马车的到来。有好几次她以为自己听到了车轮的声音，但她错了。最后，她听到的不是车轮的声音，而是车夫的喊叫声和有顶棚的入口处沉闷的隆隆声。就连装着耐心的瓦尔瓦拉公主也证实了这一点，安娜满脸通红地站了起来。但她并没有像以前两次那样倒下，而是站着不动。她突然为自己的口是心非感到羞愧，但更害怕他会以什么样的方式遇见她。所有受伤的自尊心现在都已经过去了；她只是害怕他流露出不悦的表情。她记得过去两天她的孩子已经完全康复了。从信寄出的那一刻起，她就对她的病情好转感到非常恼火。然后她想到了他，他就在这里，他的整个人，他的手，他的眼睛。她听到了他的声音。她忘记了一切，高兴地跑去迎接他。

‘Well, how is Annie?’ he said timidly from below, looking up to Anna as she ran down to him.
“嗯，安妮怎么样？”他在下面胆怯地说，当安娜跑向他时，他抬头看着她。

He was sitting on a chair, and a footman was pulling off his warm over-boot.
他坐在椅子上，一名男仆正在脱掉他温暖的大统靴。

‘Oh, she is better.’
“哦，她好多了。”

‘And you?’ he said, shaking himself.
“那你呢？”他摇晃着身子说道。

She took his hand in both of hers, and drew it to her waist, never taking her eyes off him.
她用双手握住他的手，将它拉到腰间，目光始终没有离开过他。

‘Well, I’m glad,’ he said, coldly scanning her, her hair, her dress, which he knew she had put on for him. All was charming, but how many times it had charmed him! And the stern, stony expression that she so dreaded settled upon his face.
“嗯，我很高兴，”他说道，冷冷地扫视着她、她的头发、她的衣服，他知道这是她为他穿上的。一切都很迷人，但这多少次让他着迷！她所害怕的严厉、冷酷的表情出现在他脸上。

‘Well, I’m glad. And are you well?’ he said, wiping his damp beard with his handkerchief and kissing her hand.
‘嗯，我很高兴。你还好吗？”他一边说，一边用手帕擦着湿漉漉的胡须，亲吻了她的手。

‘Never mind,’ she thought, ‘only let him be here, and so long as he’s here he cannot, he dare not, cease to love me.’
“没关系，”她想，“只要让他在这里，只要他在这里，他就不能、他不敢停止爱我。”

The evening was spent happily and gaily in the presence of Princess Varvara, who complained to him that Anna had been taking morphine in his absence.
瓦尔瓦拉公主在场，大家度过了愉快而愉快的夜晚，瓦尔瓦拉公主向他抱怨安娜在他不在的时候服用吗啡。

‘What am I to do? I couldn’t sleep.... My thoughts prevented me. When he’s here I never take it—hardly ever.’
'我是什么做的？我无法入睡……我的思绪阻止了我。当他在这里时，我从不接受——几乎从来不接受。

He told her about the election, and Anna knew how by adroit questions to bring him to what gave him most pleasure—his own success. She told him of everything that interested him at home; and all that she told him was of the most cheerful description.
他告诉她选举的事，安娜知道如何通过巧妙的问题让他了解最让他高兴的事情——他自己的成功。她告诉他家里所有他感兴趣的事情。她告诉他的一切都是最令人愉快的描述。

But late in the evening, when they were alone, Anna, seeing that she had regained complete possession of him, wanted to erase the painful impression of the glance he had given her for her letter. She said:
但到了深夜，当他们独处时，安娜发现自己已经完全占据了他，想要抹去他在写信时向她投来的目光所留下的痛苦印象。她说：

‘Tell me frankly, you were vexed at getting my letter, and you didn’t believe me?’
“坦白告诉我，你收到我的信很烦恼，而且不相信我？”

As soon as she had said it, she felt that however warm his feelings were to her, he had not forgiven her for that.
话一出口，她就觉得，不管他对她的感情有多热烈，他都没有原谅她。

‘Yes,’ he said, ‘the letter was so strange. First, Annie ill, and then you thought of coming yourself.’
“是的，”他说，“这封信太奇怪了。首先，安妮病了，然后你想到自己来。

‘It was all the truth.’
“这都是事实。”

‘Oh, I don’t doubt it.’
“哦，我毫不怀疑。”

‘Yes, you do doubt it. You are vexed, I see.’
‘是的，你确实怀疑这一点。我明白，你很烦恼。

‘Not for one moment. I’m only vexed, that’s true, that you seem somehow unwilling to admit that there are duties...’
” “一刻也没有。我只是生气，确实如此，你似乎不愿意承认有职责……”

‘The duty of going to a concert...’
“去听音乐会的义务……”

‘But we won’t talk about it,’ he said.
“但我们不会谈论它，”他说。

‘Why not talk about it?’ she said.
“为什么不谈谈呢？”她说。

‘I only meant to say that matters of real importance may turn up. Now, for instance, I shall have to go to Moscow to arrange about the house.... Oh, Anna, why are you so irritable? Don’t you know that I can’t live without you?’
“我只是想说，真正重要的事情可能会出现。比如说，现在我得去莫斯科安排房子的事情了……哦，安娜，你为什么这么烦躁？你难道不知道没有你我就活不下去吗？

‘If so,’ said Anna, her voice suddenly changing, ‘it means that you are sick of this life.... Yes, you will come for a day and go away, as men do...’
“如果是这样，”安娜的声音突然变了，“那就说明你厌倦了这种生活……是的，你会来一天然后走开，就像男人一样……”

‘Anna, that’s cruel. I am ready to give up my whole life.’
‘安娜，这太残忍了。我已经准备好放弃我的一生了。

But she did not hear him.
但她没有听到他的声音。

‘If you go to Moscow, I will go too. I will not stay here. Either we must separate or else live together.’
“如果你去莫斯科，我也会去。我不会留在这里。我们要么必须分开，要么住在一起。

‘Why, you know, that’s my one desire. But for that...’
‘为什么，你知道，这是我的唯一愿望。但为此……”

‘We must get a divorce. I will write to him. I see I cannot go on like this.... But I will come with you to Moscow.’
‘我们必须离婚。我会写信给他。我知道我不能再这样下去了……但我会和你一起去莫斯科。

‘You talk as if you were threatening me. But I desire nothing so much as never to be parted from you,’ said Vronsky, smiling.
‘你说得好像在威胁我一样。但我最渴望的就是永远不要与你分开。”渥伦斯基微笑着说道。

But as he said these words there gleamed in his eyes not merely a cold look, but the vindictive look of a man persecuted and made cruel.
但他说这句话的时候，眼中闪烁的不仅仅是冰冷的目光，还有一种被迫害、被残忍的人的怨恨眼神。

She saw the look and correctly divined its meaning.
她看到了这个表情并正确地猜出了它的含义。

‘If so, it’s a calamity!’ that glance told her. It was a moment’s impression, but she never forgot it.
“如果是这样，那就是一场灾难！”那一瞥告诉她。这是一瞬间的印象，但她永远不会忘记。

Anna wrote to her husband asking him about a divorce, and towards the end of November, taking leave of Princess Varvara, who wanted to go to Petersburg, she went with Vronsky to Moscow. Expecting every day an answer from Alexey Alexandrovitch, and after that the divorce, they now established themselves together like married people.
安娜写信给丈夫询问离婚事宜，11月底，她告别了想去彼得堡的瓦尔瓦拉公主，与渥伦斯基一起去了莫斯科。每天都期待阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇的答复，离婚后，他们现在像已婚人士一样在一起生活。

PART 7
第 7 部分

Chapter 1
第1章

The Levins had been three months in Moscow. The date had long passed on which, according to the most trustworthy calculations of people learned in such matters, Kitty should have been confined. But she was still about, and there was nothing to show that her time was any nearer than two months ago. The doctor, the monthly nurse, and Dolly and her mother, and most of all Levin, who could not think of the approaching event without terror, began to be impatient and uneasy. Kitty was the only person who felt perfectly calm and happy.
莱文夫妇在莫斯科已经三个月了。根据了解此类事情的人们最可靠的计算，基蒂应该被监禁的日期早已过去。但她仍然在，没有任何迹象表明她的时间比两个月前更近了。医生、每月的护士、多莉和她的母亲，尤其是莱文，一想到即将发生的事情就感到恐惧，开始不耐烦和不安。凯蒂是唯一感到完全平静和快乐的人。

She was distinctly conscious now of the birth of a new feeling of love for the future child, for her to some extent actually existing already, and she brooded blissfully over this feeling. He was not by now altogether a part of herself, but sometimes lived his own life independently of her. Often this separate being gave her pain, but at the same time she wanted to laugh with a strange new joy.
她现在清楚地意识到，对未来的孩子产生了一种新的爱的感觉，因为她在某种程度上实际上已经存在了，她幸福地沉思着这种感觉。他现在已经不完全是她的一部分了，但有时却独立于她而过着自己的生活。这种分离的存在常常给她带来痛苦，但同时她又想带着一种奇怪的新快乐大笑。

All the people she loved were with her, and all were so good to her, so attentively caring for her, so entirely pleasant was everything presented to her, that if she had not known and felt that it must all soon be over, she could not have wished for a better and pleasanter life. The only thing that spoiled the charm of this manner of life was that her husband was not here as she loved him to be, and as he was in the country.
所有她爱的人都和她在一起，所有人都对她那么好，那么用心地照顾她，呈现在她面前的一切都是那么令人愉快，如果她不知道并觉得这一切很快就会结束，她可以不希望过上更好、更愉快的生活。唯一破坏这种生活方式的魅力的是，她的丈夫并不像她所爱的那样在这里，也不像他在乡下一样。

She liked his serene, friendly, and hospitable manner in the country. In the town he seemed continually uneasy and on his guard, as though he were afraid someone would be rude to him, and still more to her. At home in the country, knowing himself distinctly to be in his right place, he was never in haste to be off elsewhere. He was never unoccupied. Here in town he was in a continual hurry, as though afraid of missing something, and yet he had nothing to do. And she felt sorry for him. To others, she knew, he did not appear an object of pity. On the contrary, when Kitty looked at him in society, as one sometimes looks at those one loves, trying to see him as if he were a stranger, so as to catch the impression he must make on others, she saw with a panic even of jealous fear that he was far indeed from being a pitiable figure, that he was very attractive with his fine breeding, his rather old-fashioned, reserved courtesy with women, his powerful figure, and striking, as she thought, and expressive face. But she saw him not from without, but from within; she saw that here he was not himself; that was the only way she could define his condition to herself. Sometimes she inwardly reproached him for his inability to live in the town; sometimes she recognized that it was really hard for him to order his life here so that he could be satisfied with it.
她喜欢他在乡下的平静、友善和好客的态度。在城里，他似乎总是感到不安和警惕，好像他害怕有人对他无礼，对她更是如此。在乡下的家里，他清楚地知道自己处于正确的位置，因此从不急于前往其他地方。他从来都没有闲着。在城里，他总是匆匆忙忙，好像生怕错过什么，但又无事可做。她为他感到难过。她知道，对于其他人来说，他并不是一个值得怜悯的对象。相反，当基蒂在社会上看着他时，就像人们有时看着自己所爱的人一样，试图把他当作一个陌生人来看待，以便抓住他必须给别人留下的印象，她甚至看到了一种惊慌的感觉。嫉妒的恐惧，他远非一个可怜的人物，他的优良教养，他对女性相当老式的、保守的礼貌，他强大的身材，以及她所认为的引人注目的和富有表情的脸，非常有吸引力。但她不是从外面看到他，而是从里面看到他。她看出他已经不再是他自己了。这是她可以自己定义他的状况的唯一方式。有时她会在心里责备他无法在城里生活。有时她意识到，他很难在这里安排自己的生活，让自己满意。

What had he to do, indeed? He did not care for cards; he did not go to a club. Spending the time with jovial gentlemen of Oblonsky’s type—she knew now what that meant...it meant drinking and going somewhere after drinking. She could not think without horror of where men went on such occasions. Was he to go into society? But she knew he could only find satisfaction in that if he took pleasure in the society of young women, and that she could not wish for. Should he stay at home with her, her mother and her sisters? But much as she liked and enjoyed their conversations forever on the same subjects—‘Aline-Nadine,’ as the old prince called the sisters’ talks—she knew it must bore him. What was there left for him to do? To go on writing at his book he had indeed attempted, and at first he used to go to the library and make extracts and look up references for his book. But, as he told her, the more he did nothing, the less time he had to do anything. And besides, he complained that he had talked too much about his book here, and that consequently all his ideas about it were muddled and had lost their interest for him.
事实上，他必须做什么？他不喜欢纸牌。他没有去俱乐部。和奥布隆斯基这种快活的绅士们一起度过时光——她现在知道这意味着什么……这意味着喝酒，酒后去某个地方。她一想到男人在这种场合去哪里就感到恐惧。他要走向社会吗？但她知道，只有当他在年轻女子的交往中感到快乐时，他才能从中找到满足，而这是她所不希望的。他应该留在家里和她、她的母亲和她的姐妹们在一起吗？但尽管她很喜欢并享受她们永远就同一主题进行的谈话——老王子把姐妹俩的谈话称为“艾琳-纳丁”——但她知道这一定会让他感到厌烦。他还有什么可做的呢？为了继续写他的书，他确实尝试过，一开始他常常去图书馆为他的书摘录并查找参考资料。但是，正如他告诉她的那样，他越什么都不做，他做任何事情的时间就越少。此外，他还抱怨自己在这里谈论了太多关于他的书的事情，结果他对这本书的所有想法都变得混乱，失去了兴趣。

One advantage in this town life was that quarrels hardly ever happened between them here in town. Whether it was that their conditions were different, or that they had both become more careful and sensible in that respect, they had no quarrels in Moscow from jealousy, which they had so dreaded when they moved from the country.
小镇生活的一个优点是，他们之间在镇上几乎不发生争吵。无论是他们的条件不同，还是他们在这方面都变得更加谨慎和明智，他们在莫斯科并没有因为嫉妒而发生争吵，这是他们从国外搬来时所害怕的。

One event, an event of great importance to both from that point of view, did indeed happen—that was Kitty’s meeting with Vronsky.
有一件事情确实发生了，从这个角度来看，这件事对双方来说都非常重要——那就是基蒂与渥伦斯基的会面。

The old Princess Marya Borissovna, Kitty’s godmother, who had always been very fond of her, had insisted on seeing her. Kitty, though she did not go into society at all on account of her condition, went with her father to see the venerable old lady, and there met Vronsky.
基蒂的教母老公主玛丽亚·鲍里索夫娜一直很喜欢她，坚持要见她。基蒂虽然因为身体原因根本没有踏入社会，但她还是和父亲一起去见了那位德高望重的老太太，在那里遇见了渥伦斯基。

The only thing Kitty could reproach herself for at this meeting was that at the instant when she recognized in his civilian dress the features once so familiar to her, her breath failed her, the blood rushed to her heart, and a vivid blush—she felt it— overspread her face. But this lasted only a few seconds. Before her father, who purposely began talking in a loud voice to Vronsky, had finished, she was perfectly ready to look at Vronsky, to speak to him, if necessary, exactly as she spoke to Princess Marya Borissovna, and more than that, to do so in such a way that everything to the faintest intonation and smile would have been approved by her husband, whose unseen presence she seemed to feel about her at that instant.
在这次见面中，基蒂唯一可以责备自己的就是，当她认出他穿着便服的那一刻，她曾经那么熟悉的容貌，她呼吸困难，血液涌上心头，脸红了——她感到它——覆盖了她的脸。但这只持续了几秒钟。在她父亲故意开始大声跟渥伦斯基说话之前，她完全准备好看着渥伦斯基，如果有必要的话，就跟他说话，就像她对玛丽亚·鲍里索夫娜公主说话一样，不仅如此，这样做的方式是，一切，哪怕是最微弱的语调和微笑，都会得到她丈夫的认可，在那一刻，她似乎感觉到了他看不见的存在。

She said a few words to him, even smiled serenely at his joke about the elections, which he called ‘our parliament.’ (She had to smile to show she saw the joke.) But she turned away immediately to Princess Marya Borissovna, and did not once glance at him till he got up to go; then she looked at him, but evidently only because it would be uncivil not to look at a man when he is saying good-bye.
她对他说了几句话，甚至对他关于选举的笑话平静地微笑着，他称之为“我们的议会”。（她必须微笑以表明她看到了这个笑话。）但她立即转向玛丽亚·鲍里索夫娜公主，然后直到他起身要走时，他才看他一眼。然后她看着他，但显然只是因为当一个男人说再见时不看他是不礼貌的。

She was grateful to her father for saying nothing to her about their meeting Vronsky, but she saw by his special warmth to her after the visit during their usual walk that he was pleased with her. She was pleased with herself. She had not expected she would have had the power, while keeping somewhere in the bottom of her heart all the memories of her old feeling for Vronsky, not only to seem but to be perfectly indifferent and composed with him.
她很感激她的父亲没有对她提及他们会见渥伦斯基的事，但在他们平常散步时，她从父亲对她特别的热情中看出，他对她很满意。她对自己很满意。她没想到自己竟然拥有这样的力量，同时在心底的某个地方保留着她对渥伦斯基旧日感情的所有记忆，不仅表现出对他漠不关心，而且表现得很镇定。

Levin flushed a great deal more than she when she told him she had met Vronsky at Princess Marya Borissovna’s. It was very hard for her to tell him this, but still harder to go on speaking of the details of the meeting, as he did not question her, but simply gazed at her with a frown.
当她告诉莱文她在玛丽亚·鲍里索夫娜公主家遇见了渥伦斯基时，莱文脸红得比她更厉害。她很难告诉他这些，但更难继续说起见面的细节，因为他没有追问她，只是皱着眉头看着她。

‘I am very sorry you weren’t there,’ she said. ‘Not that you weren’t in the room...I couldn’t have been so natural in your presence...I am blushing now much more, much, much more,’ she said, blushing till the tears came into her eyes. ‘But that you couldn’t see through a crack.’
“我很遗憾你不在场，”她说。 “并不是说你不在房间里……我不可能在你面前表现得如此自然……我现在脸红得更红了，更红了，”她说着，脸红得泪流满面。眼睛。 “但你无法透过裂缝看到。”

The truthful eyes told Levin that she was satisfied with herself, and in spite of her blushing he was quickly reassured and began questioning her, which was all she wanted. When he had heard everything, even to the detail that for the first second she could not help flushing, but that afterwards she was just as direct and as much at her ease as with any chance acquaintance, Levin was quite happy again and said he was glad of it, and would not now behave as stupidly as he had done at the election, but would try the first time he met Vronsky to be as friendly as possible.
那双真诚的眼睛告诉莱文，她对自己很满意，尽管她脸红了，但他很快就放心了，开始质问她，这就是她想要的。当他听完所有的事情，甚至听到她在第一秒忍不住脸红，但后来她就像任何偶然的熟人一样直接和轻松的细节时，莱文又很高兴，说他是很高兴，现在不会像选举时那样愚蠢，而是会在第一次见到渥伦斯基时尽量表现得友好。

‘It’s so wretched to feel that there’s a man almost an enemy whom it’s painful to meet,’ said Levin. ‘I’m very, very glad.’
莱文说：“感觉有一个人几乎是敌人，见到他很痛苦，真是太悲惨了。” “我非常非常高兴。”

Chapter 2
第2章

‘Go, please, go then and call on the Bols,’ Kitty said to her husband, when he came in to see her at eleven o’clock before going out. ‘I know you are dining at the club; papa put down your name. But what are you going to do in the morning?’
“走吧，拜托，那就去拜访一下波尔一家吧，”当她丈夫十一点出门前来看望她时，基蒂对他说道。 “我知道你在俱乐部用餐；爸爸记下你的名字。但是你早上要做什么呢？

‘I am only going to Katavasov,’ answered Levin.
“我只是去卡塔瓦索夫，”列文回答道。

‘Why so early?’
'为什么这么早？'

‘He promised to introduce me to Metrov. I wanted to talk to him about my work. He’s a distinguished scientific man from Petersburg,’ said Levin.
“他答应把我介绍给梅特洛夫。我想和他谈谈我的工作。他是一位来自彼得堡的杰出科学家。”莱文说。

‘Yes; wasn’t it his article you were praising so? Well, and after that?’ said Kitty.
'是的;你称赞的不是他的文章吗？好吧，那之后呢？”基蒂说。

‘I shall go to the court, perhaps, about my sister’s business.’
“也许我会因为我姐姐的事去法庭。”

‘And the concert?’ she queried.
“那音乐会呢？”她问道。

‘I shan’t go there all alone.’
“我不会一个人去那里。”

‘No? do go; there are going to be some new things.... That interested you so. I should certainly go.’
'不？走吧;将会有一些新的事情......这让你很感兴趣。我当然应该去。

‘Well, anyway, I shall come home before dinner,’ he said, looking at his watch.
“好吧，无论如何，我会在晚饭前回家，”他看了看手表说道。

‘Put on your frock coat, so that you can go straight to call on Countess Bola.’
“穿上礼服大衣，你就可以直接去拜访博拉伯爵夫人了。”

‘But is it absolutely necessary?’
“但这绝对有必要吗？”

‘Oh, absolutely! He has been to see us. Come, what is it? You go in, sit down, talk for five minutes of the weather, get up and go away.’
‘噢，绝对是这样！他已经来看我们了。来吧，这是什么？你进去，坐下来，谈论五分钟的天气，然后起身离开。

‘Oh, you wouldn’t believe it! I’ve got so out of the way of all this that it makes me feel positively ashamed. It’s such a horrible thing to do! A complete outsider walks in, sits down, stays on with nothing to do, wastes their time and worries himself, and walks away!’
‘噢，你不会相信的！我已经摆脱了这一切，这让我感到非常羞愧。这是一件多么可怕的事情啊！一个完全的局外人走进来，坐下来，无所事事，浪费时间，担心自己，然后走开！

Kitty laughed.
基蒂笑了。

‘Why, I suppose you used to pay calls before you were married, didn’t you?’
“为什么，我想你在结婚前常常打电话，不是吗？”

‘Yes, I did, but I always felt ashamed, and now I’m so out of the way of it that, by Jove! I’d sooner go two days running without my dinner than pay this call! One’s so ashamed! I feel all the while that they’re annoyed, that they’re saying, ‘What has he come for?’’
“是的，我做到了，但我总是感到羞愧，现在我已经不再妨碍它了，天哪！我宁愿连续两天不吃晚饭，也不愿打这个电话！一个人真是太羞耻了！我一直觉得他们很生气，他们在说，‘他来干什么？’”

‘No, they won’t. I’ll answer for that,’ said Kitty, looking into his face with a laugh. She took his hand. ‘Well, good-bye.... Do go, please.’
‘不，他们不会。我会回答这个问题的。”基蒂笑着看着他的脸说道。她握住他的手。 “好吧，再见……请走吧。”

He was just going out after kissing his wife’s hand, when she stopped him.
他亲吻妻子的手后正要出去，她阻止了他。

‘Kostya, do you know I’ve only fifty roubles left?’
“克斯特亚，你知道我只剩下五十卢布了吗？”

‘Oh, all right, I’ll go to the bank and get some. How much?’ he said, with the expression of dissatisfaction she knew so well.
“噢，好吧，我去银行取点。” “多少钱？”他问道，脸上带着她非常熟悉的不满表情。

‘No, wait a minute.’ She held his hand. ‘Let’s talk about it, it worries me. I seem to spend nothing unnecessary, but money seems to fly away simply. We don’t manage well, somehow.’
“不，等一下。”她握着他的手。 “我们来谈谈吧，这让我很担心。我似乎没有花任何不必要的钱，但钱似乎很快就飞走了。不知何故，我们管理得不好。

‘Oh, it’s all right,’ he said with a little cough, looking at her from under his brows.
“哦，没关系，”他咳嗽了一声，从眉下看着她。

That cough she knew well. It was a sign of intense dissatisfaction, not with her, but with himself. He certainly was displeased not at so much money being spent, but at being reminded of what he, knowing something was unsatisfactory, wanted to forget.
那种咳嗽她很熟悉。这是强烈不满的表现，不是对她，而是对他自己。他当然不是因为花了这么多钱而感到不满，而是因为有人提醒他，他知道有些事情不令人满意，想要忘记什么。

‘I have told Sokolov to sell the wheat, and to borrow an advance on the mill. We shall have money enough in any case.’
“我已经告诉索科洛夫卖掉小麦，并借入磨坊的预付款。无论如何我们都会有足够的钱。

‘Yes, but I’m afraid that altogether...’
“是的，但我恐怕完全……”

‘Oh, it’s all right, all right,’ he repeated. ‘Well, good-bye, darling.’
“哦，没关系，没关系，”他重复道。 “好吧，再见，亲爱的。”

‘No, I’m really sorry sometimes that I listened to mamma. How nice it would have been in the country! As it is, I’m worrying you all, and we’re wasting our money.’
“不，有时候我真的很抱歉我听了妈妈的话。如果在乡下该多好啊！事实上，我让你们大家担心，而且我们在浪费钱。”

‘Not at all, not at all. Not once since I’ve been married have I said that things could have been better than they are....’
‘一点也不，一点也不。自从我结婚以来，我从来没有说过事情本来可以比现在更好……”

‘Truly?’ she said, looking into his eyes.
“真的吗？”她看着他的眼睛说道。

He had said it without thinking, simply to console her. But when he glanced at her and saw those sweet truthful eyes fastened questioningly on him, he repeated it with his whole heart. ‘I was positively forgetting her,’ he thought. And he remembered what was before them, so soon to come.
他不假思索地说出这句话，只是为了安慰她。但当他瞥了她一眼，看到那双甜美而真实的眼睛疑惑地盯着他时，他全心全意地重复了一遍。 “我确实忘记了她，”他想。他还记得他们即将面临的事情。

‘Will it be soon? How do you feel?’ he whispered, taking her two hands.
‘会很快吗？你感觉怎么样？”他拉着她的两只手低声说道。

‘I have so often thought so, that now I don’t think about it or know anything about it.’
“我经常这么想，但现在我不再考虑它，也不知道任何事情了。”

‘And you’re not frightened?’
“你不害怕吗？”

She smiled contemptuously.
她轻蔑地笑了笑。

‘Not the least little bit,’ she said.
“一点也不，”她说。

‘Well, if anything happens, I shall be at Katavasov’s.’
“好吧，如果发生什么事，我会去卡塔瓦索夫那里。”

‘No, nothing will happen, and don’t think about it. I’m going for a walk on the boulevard with papa. We’re going to see Dolly. I shall expect you before dinner. Oh, yes! Do you know that Dolly’s position is becoming utterly impossible? She’s in debt all round; she hasn’t a penny. We were talking yesterday with mamma and Arseny’ (this was her sister’s husband Lvov), ‘and we determined to send you with him to talk to Stiva. It’s really unbearable. One can’t speak to papa about it.... But if you and he...’
‘不，不会有什么事情发生的，你别想了。我要和爸爸一起在林荫大道上散步。我们要去见多莉。我会在晚饭前等你。哦是的！你知道多莉的地位已经变得完全不可能了吗？她负债累累；她一分钱都没有。昨天我们正在和妈妈和阿尔谢尼谈话”（这是她姐姐的丈夫利沃夫），“我们决定派你和他一起去见斯蒂瓦。实在是难以忍受。一个人不能和爸爸谈论这件事……但如果你和他……”

‘Why, what can we do?’ said Levin.
“为什么，我们能做什么呢？”莱文说。

‘You’ll be at Arseny’s, anyway; talk to him, he will tell what we decided.’
“不管怎样，你都会去阿尔森尼；”和他谈谈，他会告诉我们我们的决定。”

‘Oh, I agree to everything Arseny thinks beforehand. I’ll go and see him. By the way, if I do go to the concert, I’ll go with Natalia. Well, good-bye.’
‘哦，我同意阿尔森之前的一切想法。我去看看他。顺便说一句，如果我真的去听音乐会，我会和娜塔莉亚一起去。那再见吧;好吧再见。'

On the steps Levin was stopped by his old servant Kouzma, who had been with him before his marriage, and now looked after their household in town.
列文在台阶上被他的老仆人库兹马拦住了，库兹马在他结婚前一直和他在一起，现在在城里照顾他们的家人。

‘Beauty’ (that was the left shaft-horse brought up from the country) ‘has been badly shod and is quite lame,’ he said. ‘What does your honor wish to be done?’
他说，“美人”（那匹从乡下运来的左辕马）“蹄子很烂，而且很跛”。 “法官大人希望做什么？”

During the first part of their stay in Moscow, Levin had used his own horses brought up from the country. He had tried to arrange this part of their expenses in the best and cheapest way possible; but it appeared that their own horses came dearer than hired horses, and they still hired too.
在莫斯科逗留的第一段时间，莱文使用了他自己从乡下饲养的马匹。他试图以尽可能最好、最便宜的方式安排这部分费用；但他并没有这么做。但看来他们自己的马比租来的马更贵，而且他们也还是租的。

‘Send for the veterinary, there may be a bruise.’
“请兽医检查，可能有瘀伤。”

‘And for Katerina Alexandrovna?’ asked Kouzma.
“那么卡特琳娜·亚历山德罗芙娜呢？”库兹马问道。

Levin was not by now struck as he had been at first by the fact that to get from one end of Moscow to the other he had to have two powerful horses put into a heavy carriage, to take the carriage three miles through the snowy slush and to keep it standing there four hours, paying five roubles every time.
列文现在并没有像最初那样感到震惊，因为要从莫斯科的一端到达另一端，他必须将两匹强大的马放在一辆重型马车上，使马车在雪泥中行驶三英里，然后让它在那里呆四个小时，每次付五卢布。

Now it seemed quite natural.
现在看来很自然。

‘Hire a pair for our carriage from the jobmaster,’ said he.
“从工头那里租一辆来装我们的马车，”他说。

‘Yes, sir.’
'是的先生。'

And so, simply and easily, thanks to the facilities of town life, Levin settled a question which, in the country, would have called for so much personal trouble and exertion, and going out onto the steps, he called a sledge, sat down, and drove to Nikitsky. On the way he thought no more of money, but mused on the introduction that awaited him to the Petersburg savant, a writer on sociology, and what he would say to him about his book.
就这样，莱文凭借城镇生活的便利，简单而轻松地解决了一个在乡下需要费很大的个人功夫和精力的问题，然后他走到台阶上，叫了一辆雪橇，坐下来。 ，然后驱车前往尼基茨基。路上，他不再考虑金钱，而是沉思着等待着他认识这位彼得堡学者、一位社会学作家的介绍，以及他会对他的书说些什么。

Only during the first days of his stay in Moscow Levin had been struck by the expenditure, strange to one living in the country, unproductive but inevitable, that was expected of him on every side. But by now he had grown used to it. That had happened to him in this matter which is said to happen to drunkards—the first glass sticks in the throat, the second flies down like a hawk, but after the third they’re like tiny little birds. When Levin had changed his first hundred-rouble note to pay for liveries for his footmen and hall-porter he could not help reflecting that these liveries were of no use to anyone—but they were indubitably necessary, to judge by the amazement of the princess and Kitty when he suggested that they might do without liveries,—that these liveries would cost the wages of two laborers for the summer, that is, would pay for about three hundred working days from Easter to Ash Wednesday, and each a day of hard work from early morning to late evening—and that hundred-rouble note did stick in his throat. But the next note, changed to pay for providing a dinner for their relations, that cost twenty-eight roubles, though it did excite in Levin the reflection that twenty-eight roubles meant nine measures of oats, which men would with groans and sweat have reaped and bound and thrashed and winnowed and sifted and sown,—this next one he parted with more easily. And now the notes he changed no longer aroused such reflections, and they flew off like little birds. Whether the labor devoted to obtaining the money corresponded to the pleasure given by what was bought with it, was a consideration he had long ago dismissed. His business calculation that there was a certain price below which he could not sell certain grain was forgotten too. The rye, for the price of which he had so long held out, had been sold for fifty kopecks a measure cheaper than it had been fetching a month ago. Even the consideration that with such an expenditure he could not go on living for a year without debt, that even had no force. Only one thing was essential: to have money in the bank, without inquiring where it came from, so as to know that one had the wherewithal to buy meat for tomorrow. And this condition had hitherto been fulfilled; he had always had the money in the bank. But now the money in the bank had gone, and he could not quite tell where to get the next installment. And this it was which, at the moment when Kitty had mentioned money, had disturbed him; but he had no time to think about it. He drove off, thinking of Katavasov and the meeting with Metrov that was before him.
只是在他在莫斯科逗留的头几天里，列文才对开支感到震惊，这对住在乡下的人来说很奇怪，虽然没有什么成效，但却是不可避免的，这是各方对他的期望。但现在他已经习惯了。在这件事情上，他就遇到了这种情况，据说酒鬼也会发生这样的事——第一块玻璃卡在喉咙里，第二块像鹰一样飞下来，但第三块之后它们就像小鸟一样。当莱文兑换了他的第一张百卢布钞票来支付他的男仆和门房的制服时，他不禁想到这些制服对任何人都没有用处——但从公主的惊讶来看，它们无疑是必要的。当基蒂建议他们可以不用制服时，这些制服将花费两名工人夏季的工资，也就是说，将支付从复活节到圣灰星期三大约三百个工作日的费用，每个工作日都是辛苦的一天。从清晨工作到深夜——那张一百卢布的钞票确实卡在了他的喉咙里。但是下一张纸条却变成了为他们的亲戚提供晚餐的费用，花费了二十八卢布，尽管它确实让莱文兴奋地思考，二十八卢布意味着九份燕麦，人们会在呻吟和汗水中吃到这些燕麦。收割、捆扎、捶打、扬尘、筛分、播种，——他更容易与下一个分开。而现在他改变的音符不再引起这样的思考，它们像小鸟一样飞走了。为获得金钱而付出的劳动是否与用金钱购买的东西所带来的快乐相对应，这是他早已排除的一个考虑因素。他的商业计算也被忘记了，即有一个特定的价格，低于该价格他就无法出售某些谷物。 他一直坚持的黑麦价格现在比一个月前便宜了五十戈比。即使考虑到这样的支出他无法在没有债务的情况下生活一年，那也没有任何力量。只有一件事是必要的：银行里有钱，不用问钱从哪里来，这样就知道自己有钱买明天的肉。而这个条件目前已经满足了；他的钱一直存在银行里。但现在银行里的钱已经花光了，他也不知道该去哪里取下一期的钱。正是这一点，在基蒂提到钱的时候，让他感到不安。但他没有时间去想。他开车离开，想着卡塔瓦索夫和眼前与梅特洛夫的会面。

Chapter 3
第3章

Levin had on this visit to town seen a great deal of his old friend at the university, Professor Katavasov, whom he had not seen since his marriage. He liked in Katavasov the clearness and simplicity of his conception of life. Levin thought that the clearness of Katavasov’s conception of life was due to the poverty of his nature; Katavasov thought that the disconnectedness of Levin’s ideas was due to his lack of intellectual discipline; but Levin enjoyed Katavasov’s clearness, and Katavasov enjoyed the abundance of Levin’s untrained ideas, and they liked to meet and to discuss.
莱文在这次镇上之行中见到了很多他大学里的老朋友卡塔瓦索夫教授，自从结婚以来他就没有见过他了。他喜欢卡塔瓦索夫清晰而简单的生活观念。莱文认为，卡塔瓦索夫的人生观之所以清晰，是因为他本性的贫乏；卡塔瓦索夫认为莱文思想的脱节是由于他缺乏知识纪律造成的。但莱文喜欢卡塔瓦索夫的清晰，卡塔瓦索夫也喜欢莱文丰富的未经训练的想法，他们喜欢见面和讨论。

Levin had read Katavasov some parts of his book, and he had liked them. On the previous day Katavasov had met Levin at a public lecture and told him that the celebrated Metrov, whose article Levin had so much liked, was in Moscow, that he had been much interested by what Katavasov had told him about Levin’s work, and that he was coming to see him tomorrow at eleven, and would be very glad to make Levin’s acquaintance.
莱文读过卡塔瓦索夫书中的某些部分，并且很喜欢它们。前一天，卡塔瓦索夫在一次公开演讲中见到了列文，并告诉他，列文非常喜欢他的文章的著名梅特洛夫正在莫斯科，他对卡塔瓦索夫告诉他的有关列文作品的内容很感兴趣，而且他明天十一点要来看他，并且很高兴认识莱文。

‘You’re positively a reformed character, I’m glad to see,’ said Katavasov, meeting Levin in the little drawing room. ‘I heard the bell and thought: Impossible that it can be he at the exact time!... Well, what do you say to the Montenegrins now? They’re a race of warriors.’
“我很高兴看到你确实是一个改过自新的人，”卡塔瓦索夫在小客厅里见到莱文时说道。 “我听到钟声，心想：不可能是他在准确的时间！……好吧，你现在对黑山人说什么？他们是战士的种族。

‘Why, what’s happened?’ asked Levin.
“为什么，发生了什么事？”莱文问道。

Katavasov in a few words told him the last piece of news from the war, and going into his study, introduced Levin to a short, thick-set man of pleasant appearance. This was Metrov. The conversation touched for a brief space on politics and on how recent events were looked at in the higher spheres in Petersburg. Metrov repeated a saying that had reached him through a most trustworthy source, reported as having been uttered on this subject by the Tsar and one of the ministers. Katavasov had heard also on excellent authority that the Tsar had said something quite different. Levin tried to imagine circumstances in which both sayings might have been uttered, and the conversation on that topic dropped.
卡塔瓦索夫简短地告诉了他战争中的最后一条消息，然后走进他的书房，向列文介绍了一个身材矮小、身材粗壮、外表令人愉快的男人。这是梅特罗夫。谈话简短地涉及了政治以及彼得堡高层如何看待最近发生的事件。梅特洛夫重复了他通过最值得信赖的消息来源得知的一句话，据报道沙皇和一位大臣就这个问题说过这样的话。卡塔瓦索夫还从权威那里听说沙皇说了一些完全不同的话。莱文试图想象两种说法可能被说出的情况，然后关于这个话题的谈话就停止了。

‘Yes, here he’s written almost a book on the natural conditions of the laborer in relation to the land,’ said Katavasov; ‘I’m not a specialist, but I, as a natural science man, was pleased at his not taking mankind as something outside biological laws; but, on the contrary, seeing his dependence on his surroundings, and in that dependence seeking the laws of his development.’
“是的，他在这里几乎写了一本关于劳动者与土地的自然条件的书，”卡塔瓦索夫说。 “我不是专家，但作为一个自然科学家，我很高兴他没有把人类视为生物规律之外的东西；相反，看到他对周围环境的依赖，并在这种依赖中寻求他发展的规律。

‘That’s very interesting,’ said Metrov.
“这非常有趣，”梅特罗夫说。

‘What I began precisely was to write a book on agriculture; but studying the chief instrument of agriculture, the laborer,’ said Levin, reddening, ‘I could not help coming to quite unexpected results.’
“我一开始就是写一本关于农业的书； “但研究农业的主要工具——劳动者，”莱文红着脸说道，“我不禁得出了相当意想不到的结果。”

And Levin began carefully, as it were, feeling his ground, to expound his views. He knew Metrov had written an article against the generally accepted theory of political economy, but to what extent he could reckon on his sympathy with his own new views he did not know and could not guess from the clever and serene face of the learned man.
莱文开始小心翼翼地阐述他的观点。他知道梅特洛夫写了一篇反对普遍接受的政治经济学理论的文章，​​但他能在多大程度上相信梅特洛夫对自己的新观点的同情，他不知道，也无法从这位学者聪明而平静的脸上猜出。

‘But in what do you see the special characteristics of the Russian laborer?’ said Metrov; ‘in his biological characteristics, so to speak, or in the condition in which he is placed?’
“但是你认为俄罗斯工人有什么特点呢？”梅特罗夫说道。 “可以这么说，是根据他的生物特征，还是根据他所处的状况？”

Levin saw that there was an idea underlying this question with which he did not agree. But he went on explaining his own idea that the Russian laborer has a quite special view of the land, different from that of other people; and to support this proposition he made haste to add that in his opinion this attitude of the Russian peasant was due to the consciousness of his vocation to people vast unoccupied expanses in the East.
莱文发现这个问题背后有一个他不同意的想法。但他继续解释自己的想法，即俄罗斯工人对土地有一种与其他人不同的非常特殊的看法；为了支持这一主张，他急忙补充说，在他看来，俄罗斯农民的这种态度是由于他意识到自己的使命是为东方广阔的无人居住的地区人民服务。

‘One may easily be led into error in basing any conclusion on the general vocation of a people,’ said Metrov, interrupting Levin. ‘The condition of the laborer will always depend on his relation to the land and to capital.’
“根据一个民族的普遍使命得出任何结论时，很容易犯错误，”梅特罗夫打断了莱文的话。 “劳动者的状况始终取决于他与土地和资本的关系。”

And without letting Levin finish explaining his idea, Metrov began expounding to him the special point of his own theory.
没等莱文把自己的想法解释完，梅特洛夫就开始向他阐述自己理论的特殊之处。

In what the point of his theory lay, Levin did not understand, because he did not take the trouble to understand. He saw that Metrov, like other people, in spite of his own article, in which he had attacked the current theory of political economy, looked at the position of the Russian peasant simply from the point of view of capital, wages, and rent. He would indeed have been obliged to admit that in the eastern—much the larger—part of Russia rent was as yet nil, that for nine-tenths of the eighty millions of the Russian peasants wages took the form simply of food provided for themselves, and that capital does not so far exist except in the form of the most primitive tools. Yet it was only from that point of view that he considered every laborer, though in many points he differed from the economists and had his own theory of the wage-fund, which he expounded to Levin.
莱文不明白他的理论的要点是什么，因为他没有花功夫去理解。他看到，梅特罗夫和其他人一样，尽管他自己的文章中攻击了当前的政治经济学理论，但他只是简单地从资本、工资和地租的角度来看待俄罗斯农民的处境。他确实不得不承认，在东部——俄罗斯的大部分地区——地租还为零，八千万俄罗斯农民中的十分之九的工资仅仅表现为自给自足的食物，迄今为止，除了以最原始的工具形式存在之外，资本还不存在。然而，他只是从这个角度来考虑每一个劳动者，尽管他在许多方面与经济学家不同，并且有自己的工资基金理论，并向莱文阐述了这一理论。

Levin listened reluctantly, and at first made objections. He would have liked to interrupt Metrov, to explain his own thought, which in his opinion would have rendered further exposition of Metrov’s theories superfluous. But later on, feeling convinced that they looked at the matter so differently, that they could never understand one another, he did not even oppose his statements, but simply listened. Although what Metrov was saying was by now utterly devoid of interest for him, he yet experienced a certain satisfaction in listening to him. It flattered his vanity that such a learned man should explain his ideas to him so eagerly, with such intensity and confidence in Levin’s understanding of the subject, sometimes with a mere hint referring him to a whole aspect of the subject. He put this down to his own credit, unaware that Metrov, who had already discussed his theory over and over again with all his intimate friends, talked of it with special eagerness to every new person, and in general was eager to talk to anyone of any subject that interested him, even if still obscure to himself.
莱文不情愿地听着，起初还提出了反对意见。他本想打断梅特洛夫，解释他自己的想法，在他看来，这会使梅特洛夫的理论的进一步阐述变得多余。但后来，他确信他们对此事的看法如此不同，永远无法理解彼此，他甚至没有反对他的说法，只是听着。虽然梅特罗夫现在说的话对他来说完全没有兴趣，但听他说话还是有一定的满足感。这样一个博学的人竟然如此热切地向他解释自己的想法，对莱文对这个主题的理解如此强烈和自信，有时甚至只是暗示他要了解这个主题的整个方面，这满足了他的虚荣心。他把这归咎于自己的功劳，没有意识到梅特罗夫已经和他所有的亲密朋友一遍又一遍地讨论过他的理论，他对每个新认识的人都特别热切地谈论它，而且总的来说，他也渴望与任何人谈论它。任何他感兴趣的主题，即使对他来说仍然晦涩难懂。

‘We are late though,’ said Katavasov, looking at his watch directly Metrov had finished his discourse.
“不过我们迟到了。”卡塔瓦索夫说完，梅特罗夫刚讲完话，他就看了看手表。

‘Yes, there’s a meeting of the Society of Amateurs today in commemoration of the jubilee of Svintitch,’ said Katavasov in answer to Levin’s inquiry. ‘Pyotr Ivanovitch and I were going. I’ve promised to deliver an address on his labors in zoology. Come along with us, it’s very interesting.’
卡塔瓦索夫在回答莱文的询问时说道：“是的，业余爱好者协会今天召开了一次会议，纪念斯温蒂奇的五十周年。” “彼得·伊万诺维奇和我要去。我答应就他在动物学方面的工作发表演讲。跟我们一起来吧，这很有趣。”

‘Yes, and indeed it’s time to start,’ said Metrov. ‘Come with us, and from there, if you care to, come to my place. I should very much like to hear your work.’
“是的，确实是时候开始了，”梅特罗夫说。 “跟我们走吧，如果你愿意的话，可以从那里到我这里来。”我非常想听听你的作品。

‘Oh, no! It’s no good yet, it’s unfinished. But I shall be very glad to go to the meeting.’
'不好了！还不好，还没完。但我会很高兴参加会议。

‘I say, friends, have you heard? He has handed in the separate report,’ Katavasov called from the other room, where he was putting on his frock coat.
‘我说，朋友们，你们听到了吗？他已经提交了单独的报告。”卡塔瓦索夫在另一个房间里喊道，当时他正在房间里穿礼服。

And a conversation sprang up upon the university question, which was a very important event that winter in Moscow. Three old professors in the council had not accepted the opinion of the younger professors. The young ones had registered a separate resolution. This, in the judgment of some people, was monstrous, in the judgment of others it was the simplest and most just thing to do, and the professors were split up into two parties.
就大学问题展开了一场谈话，这是那年冬天莫斯科的一件非常重要的事情。委员会中的三位老教授并没有接受年轻教授的意见。年轻人已经注册了一项单独的决议。这在一些人看来是骇人听闻的，但在另一些人看来却是最简单、最正义的事情，教授们分成了两派。

One party, to which Katavasov belonged, saw in the opposite party a scoundrelly betrayal and treachery, while the opposite party saw in them childishness and lack of respect for the authorities. Levin, though he did not belong to the university, had several times already during his stay in Moscow heard and talked about this matter, and had his own opinion on the subject. He took part in the conversation that was continued in the street, as they all three walked to the buildings of the old university.
卡塔瓦索夫所属的一方认为对方是无耻的背叛和背叛，而另一方则认为他们幼稚且缺乏对当局的尊重。莱文虽然不属于该大学，但他在莫斯科逗留期间已经多次听到和谈论过这件事，并对这个问题有自己的看法。当他们三个一起走向旧大学的建筑时，他参加了街上继续进行的谈话。

The meeting had already begun. Round the cloth-covered table, at which Katavasov and Metrov seated themselves, there were some half-dozen persons, and one of these was bending close over a manuscript, reading something aloud. Levin sat down in one of the empty chairs that were standing round the table, and in a whisper asked a student sitting near what was being read. The student, eyeing Levin with displeasure, said:
会议已经开始了。卡塔瓦索夫和梅特洛夫坐在一张铺着布的桌子周围，周围有六个人，其中一人正俯身在一份手稿上，大声朗读着什么。莱文在桌子周围的一把空椅子上坐下，低声询问坐在旁边正在读的内容的一名学生。学生不满地看着莱文，说道：

‘Biography.’
'传。'

Though Levin was not interested in the biography, he could not help listening, and learned some new and interesting facts about the life of the distinguished man of science.
尽管莱文对传记不感兴趣，但他还是忍不住去听，并了解了有关这位杰出科学家的生活的一些新的有趣的事实。

When the reader had finished, the chairman thanked him and read some verses of the poet Ment sent him on the jubilee, and said a few words by way of thanks to the poet. Then Katavasov in his loud, ringing voice read his address on the scientific labors of the man whose jubilee was being kept.
朗读者读完后，主席向他表示感谢，并朗读了诗人门特在禧年送给他的一些诗句，并对诗人说了几句话。然后卡塔瓦索夫用他响亮而响亮的声音宣读了他的讲话，内容是关于这位被纪念的人的科学工作。

When Katavasov had finished, Levin looked at his watch, saw it was past one, and thought that there would not be time before the concert to read Metrov his book, and indeed, he did not now care to do so. During the reading he had thought over their conversation. He saw distinctly now that though Metrov’s ideas might perhaps have value, his own ideas had a value too, and their ideas could only be made clear and lead to something if each worked separately in his chosen path, and that nothing would be gained by putting their ideas together. And having made up his mind to refuse Metrov’s invitation, Levin went up to him at the end of the meeting. Metrov introduced Levin to the chairman, with whom he was talking of the political news. Metrov told the chairman what he had already told Levin, and Levin made the same remarks on his news that he had already made that morning, but for the sake of variety he expressed also a new opinion which had only just struck him. After that the conversation turned again on the university question. As Levin had already heard it all, he made haste to tell Metrov that he was sorry he could not take advantage of his invitation, took leave, and drove to Lvov’s.
卡塔瓦索夫听完后，列文看了看表，发现已经过了一点，心想音乐会前应该没有时间读梅特洛夫的书了，事实上，他现在也不想这么做。在阅读的过程中，他思考了他们的谈话。他现在清楚地看到，虽然梅特洛夫的想法也许有价值，但他自己的想法也有价值，他们的想法只有在各自选择的道路上各自努力的情况下才能变得清晰并带来一些结果，而把任何东西都放在一起的话将一事无成。他们的想法结合在一起。莱文决定拒绝梅特洛夫的邀请，并在会议结束时走到他面前。梅特罗夫向主席介绍了莱文，当时他正与主席谈论政治新闻。梅特罗夫把他已经告诉莱文的话告诉了主席，莱文在他的新闻中也发表了他那天早上已经说过的同样的话，但为了多样化，他还表达了一个刚刚让他震惊的新观点。之后话题又转到了大学问题。莱文已经听到了这一切，他赶紧告诉梅特洛夫，他很抱歉不能利用他的邀请，然后告辞，开车去了利沃夫家。

Chapter 4
第4章

Lvov, the husband of Natalia, Kitty’s sister, had spent all his life in foreign capitals, where he had been educated, and had been in the diplomatic service.
利沃夫是基蒂妹妹纳塔利娅的丈夫，他一生都在外国首都度过，在那里他接受了教育，并一直在外交部门工作。

During the previous year he had left the diplomatic service, not owing to any ‘unpleasantness’ (he never had any ‘unpleasantness’ with anyone), and was transferred to the department of the court of the palace in Moscow, in order to give his two boys the best education possible.
去年，他离开外交部门，并不是因为任何“不愉快”（他从未与任何人发生过任何“不愉快”），并被调到莫斯科宫廷部门，以便给他两个男孩尽可能接受最好的教育。

In spite of the striking contrast in their habits and views and the fact that Lvov was older than Levin, they had seen a great deal of one another that winter, and had taken a great liking to each other.
尽管他们的习惯和观点截然不同，而且利沃夫比列文年长，但那年冬天他们还是见过很多面，彼此非常喜欢对方。

Lvov was at home, and Levin went in to him unannounced.
利沃夫在家，列文未经事先通知就走进了他家。

Lvov, in a house coat with a belt and in chamois leather shoes, was sitting in an armchair, and with a pince-nez with blue glasses he was reading a book that stood on a reading desk, while in his beautiful hand he held a half-burned cigarette daintily away from him.
利沃夫穿着一件系腰带的便服，脚踩麂皮皮鞋，坐在扶手椅上，戴着夹鼻眼镜，戴着蓝色眼镜，正在阅读书桌上的一本书，漂亮的手里拿着一本优雅地将半燃的香烟从他身边拿开。

His handsome, delicate, and still youthful-looking face, to which his curly, glistening silvery hair gave a still more aristocratic air, lighted up with a smile when he saw Levin.
他英俊、精致、依然年轻的脸庞，银光闪闪的卷发更显贵族气质，一看到莱文，脸上就绽放出笑容。

‘Capital! I was meaning to send to you. How’s Kitty? Sit here, it’s more comfortable.’ He got up and pushed up a rocking chair. ‘Have you read the last circular in the Journal de St. Petersbourg? I think it’s excellent,’ he said, with a slight French accent.
'首都！我本来想发给你的。凯蒂怎么样？坐在这里比较舒服。”他起身推开一张摇椅。 “你读过《圣彼得堡日报》上的最后一份通告了吗？我认为这非常棒，”他带着轻微的法国口音说道。

Levin told him what he had heard from Katavasov was being said in Petersburg, and after talking a little about politics, he told him of his interview with Metrov, and the learned society’s meeting. To Lvov it was very interesting.
莱文告诉他他从卡塔瓦索夫那里听到的在彼得堡所说的话，在谈论了一些政治之后，他告诉了他他对梅特罗夫的采访以及学会的会议。对于利沃夫来说，这非常有趣。

‘That’s what I envy you, that you are able to mix in these interesting scientific circles,’ he said. And as he talked, he passed as usual into French, which was easier to him. ‘It’s true I haven’t the time for it. My official work and the children leave me no time; and then I’m not ashamed to own that my education has been too defective.’
“这就是我羡慕你的地方，你能够融入这些有趣的科学圈子，”他说。当他说话时，他像往常一样转入法语，这对他来说更容易。 “确实，我没有时间。”我的公务和孩子让我没有时间；然后我并不羞于承认我的教育有太多缺陷。

‘That I don’t believe,’ said Levin with a smile, feeling, as he always did, touched at Lvov’s low opinion of himself, which was not in the least put on from a desire to seem or to be modest, but was absolutely sincere.
“我不相信，”列文微笑着说道，他像往常一样，感受到了利沃夫对自己的低评价，这绝不是因为想要显得谦虚或谦虚，而是出于对自己的评价。绝对真诚。

‘Oh, yes, indeed! I feel now how badly educated I am. To educate my children I positively have to look up a great deal, and in fact simply to study myself. For it’s not enough to have teachers, there must be someone to look after them, just as on your land you want laborers and an overseer. See what I’m reading’—he pointed to Buslaev’s Grammar on the desk—‘it’s expected of Misha, and it’s so difficult.... Come, explain to me.... Here he says...’
‘哦，是的，确实如此！我现在感觉自己受的教育是多么的糟糕。为了教育我的孩子，我确实必须查阅大量资料，实际上只是为了研究自己。因为光有老师是不够的，还必须有人照顾他们，就像在你的土地上你需要工人和监工一样。看看我在读什么”——他指着桌上的巴斯拉耶夫语法书——“这是米沙的期望，而且太难了……来，给我解释一下……他在这里说……”

Levin tried to explain to him that it couldn’t be understood, but that it had to be taught; but Lvov would not agree with him.
莱文试图向他解释说，它是无法被理解的，但它必须被教导。但利沃夫不会同意他的观点。

‘Oh, you’re laughing at it!’
“哦，你在笑吧！”

‘On the contrary, you can’t imagine how, when I look at you, I’m always learning the task that lies before me, that is the education of one’s children.’
“相反，你无法想象，当我看着你时，我总是在学习摆在我面前的任务，那就是教育孩子。”

‘Well, there’s nothing for you to learn,’ said Lvov.
“好吧，你没什么可学的，”利沃夫说。

‘All I know,’ said Levin, ‘is that I have never seen better brought-up children than yours, and I wouldn’t wish for children better than yours.’
“我只知道，”莱文说，“我从来没有见过比你的孩子更好的成长环境，而且我也不希望有比你的孩子更好的孩子。”

Lvov visibly tried to restrain the expression of his delight, but he was positively radiant with smiles.
利沃夫显然极力克制住喜悦的表情，但脸上却洋溢着笑容。

‘If only they’re better than I! That’s all I desire. You don’t know yet all the work,’ he said, ‘with boys who’ve been left like mine to run wild abroad.’
‘如果他们比我更好就好了！这就是我所希望的。你还不知道所有的工作，”他说，“和像我一样被留在国外狂奔的男孩们。”

‘You’ll catch all that up. They’re such clever children. The great thing is the education of character. That’s what I learn when I look at your children.’
‘你会明白这一切的。他们是非常聪明的孩子。最伟大的是品格教育。这就是我在观察你的孩子时学到的东西。”

‘You talk of the education of character. You can’t imagine how difficult that is! You have hardly succeeded in combating one tendency when others crop up, and the struggle begins again. If one had not a support in religion—you remember we talked about that—no father could bring children up relying on his own strength alone without that help.’
“你谈到品格教育。你无法想象这有多困难！你几乎没有成功地对抗一种倾向，当其他倾向突然出现时，斗争又开始了。如果一个人没有宗教的支持——你记得我们谈到过这一点——没有宗教的帮助，没有一个父亲能够独自依靠自己的力量抚养孩子。”

This subject, which always interested Levin, was cut short by the entrance of the beauty Natalia Alexandrovna, dressed to go out.
这个话题一直让莱文很感兴趣，但被美丽的纳塔利娅·亚历山德罗夫娜的到来打断了，她盛装外出。

‘I didn’t know you were here,’ she said, unmistakably feeling no regret, but a positive pleasure, in interrupting this conversation on a topic she had heard so much of that she was by now weary of it. ‘Well, how is Kitty? I am dining with you today. I tell you what, Arseny,’ she turned to her husband, ‘you take the carriage.’
“我不知道你在这里，”她说道，打断这场​​她听得太多、现在已经厌倦的话题的谈话，毫无疑问，她没有感到后悔，而是感到非常高兴。 ‘嗯，基蒂怎么样？我今天和你一起吃饭。我告诉你，阿瑟尼，”她转向她的丈夫，“你坐马车吧。”

And the husband and wife began to discuss their arrangements for the day. As the husband had to drive to meet someone on official business, while the wife had to go to the concert and some public meeting of a committee on the Eastern Question, there was a great deal to consider and settle. Levin had to take part in their plans as one of themselves. It was settled that Levin should go with Natalia to the concert and the meeting, and that from there they should send the carriage to the office for Arseny, and he should call for her and take her to Kitty’s; or that, if he had not finished his work, he should send the carriage back and Levin would go with her.
夫妻俩开始讨论当天的安排。由于丈夫因公务要开车去见人，妻子还要去听音乐会和东方问题委员会的一些公开会议，所以需要考虑和解决的事情很多。莱文必须以自己的身份参与他们的计划。决定让莱文和娜塔莉亚一起去听音乐会和开会，然后从那里把马车送到阿瑟尼的办公室，然后他去叫她，带她去基蒂家。或者说，如果他的工作还没有完成，他就应该把马车送回去，莱文会和她一起走。

‘He’s spoiling me,’ Lvov said to his wife; ‘he assures me that our children are splendid, when I know how much that’s bad there is in them.’
“他把我宠坏了，”利沃夫对妻子说。 “当我知道我们的孩子身上有多少不好的地方时，他向我保证我们的孩子非常出色。”

‘Arseny goes to extremes, I always say,’ said his wife. ‘If you look for perfection, you will never be satisfied. And it’s true, as papa says,—that when we were brought up there was one extreme—we were kept in the basement, while our parents lived in the best rooms; now it’s just the other way—the parents are in the wash house, while the children are in the best rooms. Parents now are not expected to live at all, but to exist altogether for their children.’
“我总是说，阿森纳走极端了，”他的妻子说。 “如果你追求完美，你永远不会满足。确实，正如爸爸所说，在我们长大的时候，有一个极端：我们被关在地下室里，而我们的父母则住在最好的房间里；我们被关在地下室里。现在情况正好相反——父母在洗衣房，而孩子们在最好的房间里。现在父母根本不应该活着，而是为了孩子而存在。”

‘Well, what if they like it better?’ Lvov said, with his beautiful smile, touching her hand. ‘Anyone who didn’t know you would think you were a stepmother, not a true mother.’
“好吧，如果他们更喜欢怎么办？”利沃夫说道，脸上带着美丽的微笑，抚摸着她的手。 “任何不认识你的人都会认为你是继母，而不是真正的母亲。”

‘No, extremes are not good in anything,’ Natalia said serenely, putting his paper knife straight in its proper place on the table.
“不，走极端是没有好处的。”娜塔莉亚平静地说，将裁纸刀放在桌子上适当的位置。

‘Well, come here, you perfect children,’ Lvov said to the two handsome boys who came in, and after bowing to Levin, went up to their father, obviously wishing to ask him about something.
“好吧，过来吧，你们这些完美的孩子，”利沃夫对进来的两个英俊的男孩说道，向列文鞠了一躬后，走到了他们的父亲面前，显然是想问他一些事情。

Levin would have liked to talk to them, to hear what they would say to their father, but Natalia began talking to him, and then Lvov’s colleague in the service, Mahotin, walked in, wearing his court uniform, to go with him to meet someone, and a conversation was kept up without a break upon Herzegovina, Princess Korzinskaya, the town council, and the sudden death of Madame Apraksina.
莱文本想和他们说话，听听他们会对父亲说些什么，但娜塔莉亚开始和他说话，然后利沃夫的同事马霍廷穿着宫廷制服走了进来，和他一起去见有人不停地谈论黑塞哥维那、科尔津斯卡娅公主、市议会以及阿普拉克西娜夫人的突然去世。

Levin even forgot the commission intrusted to him. He recollected it as he was going into the hall.
莱文甚至忘记了委托给他的任务。当他走进大厅时，他想起了这件事。

‘Oh, Kitty told me to talk to you about Oblonsky,’ he said, as Lvov was standing on the stairs, seeing his wife and Levin off.
“哦，基蒂让我和你谈谈奥布朗斯基的事，”利沃夫站在楼梯上，送行他的妻子和莱文时，他说道。

‘Yes, yes, maman wants us, les beaux-freres, to attack him,’ he said, blushing. ‘But why should I?’
“是的，是的，妈妈希望我们这些美男子攻击他，”他红着脸说道。 “但我为什么要这么做呢？”

‘Well, then, I will attack him,’ said Madame Lvova, with a smile, standing in her white sheepskin cape, waiting till they had finished speaking. ‘Come, let us go.’
“好吧，那我就攻击他吧。”穿着白色羊皮斗篷的利沃娃夫人微笑着说道，等着他们说完。 “来吧，我们走吧。”

Chapter 5
第5章

At the concert in the afternoon two very interesting things were performed. One was a fantasia, King Lear; the other was a quartette dedicated to the memory of Bach. Both were new and in the new style, and Levin was eager to form an opinion of them. After escorting his sister-in-law to her stall, he stood against a column and tried to listen as attentively and conscientiously as possible. He tried not to let his attention be distracted, and not to spoil his impression by looking at the conductor in a white tie, waving his arms, which always disturbed his enjoyment of music so much, or the ladies in bonnets, with strings carefully tied over their ears, and all these people either thinking of nothing at all or thinking of all sorts of things except the music. He tried to avoid meeting musical connoisseurs or talkative acquaintances, and stood looking at the floor straight before him, listening.
下午的音乐会上表演了两件非常有趣的事情。其中一部是幻想曲《李尔王》；另一首是纪念巴赫的四重奏。两者都是新的、新的风格，莱文渴望对它们形成自己的看法。在护送嫂子到她的摊位后，他靠着一根柱子站着，尽可能专注地、认真地听。他尽量不让自己的注意力分散，也不要看着打着白领带、挥舞着手臂的指挥家，这总是妨碍他欣赏音乐，或者看着戴着帽子、小心地绑着绳子的女士们，从而破坏他的印象。在他们的耳朵里，所有这些人要么什么都不想，要么只想着除了音乐之外的各种各样的事情。他尽量避免与音乐鉴赏家或健谈的熟人见面，而是站着看着面前的地板，倾听着。

But the more he listened to the fantasia of King Lear the further he felt from forming any definite opinion of it. There was, as it were, a continual beginning, a preparation of the musical expression of some feeling, but it fell to pieces again directly, breaking into new musical motives, or simply nothing but the whims of the composer, exceedingly complex but disconnected sounds. And these fragmentary musical expressions, though sometimes beautiful, were disagreeable, because they were utterly unexpected and not led up to by anything. Gaiety and grief and despair and tenderness and triumph followed one another without any connection, like the emotions of a madman. And those emotions, like a madman’s, sprang up quite unexpectedly.
但他听《李尔王》的幻想曲越多，就越无法对它形成任何明确的看法。可以说，有一个持续不断的开始，某种情感的音乐表达的准备，但它又直接崩溃了，闯入新的音乐动机，或者只是作曲家的突发奇想，极其复杂但不连贯的声音。这些零碎的音乐表达虽然有时很美，但却令人不愉快，因为它们完全出乎意料，没有任何东西引导。欢乐、悲伤、绝望、温柔、胜利接二连三，没有任何联系，就像疯子的情绪一样。而那些情绪，就像疯子一样，出其不意地涌现。

During the whole of the performance Levin felt like a deaf man watching people dancing, and was in a state of complete bewilderment when the fantasia was over, and felt a great weariness from the fruitless strain on his attention. Loud applause resounded on all sides. Everyone got up, moved about, and began talking. Anxious to throw some light on his own perplexity from the impressions of others, Levin began to walk about, looking for connoisseurs, and was glad to see a well-known musical amateur in conversation with Pestsov, whom he knew.
在整个表演过程中，莱文感觉自己就像一个聋子在看人们跳舞，当幻想曲结束时，他处于一种完全困惑的状态，并且由于注意力的徒劳劳累而感到极大的疲倦。各方响起热烈的掌声。每个人都站起来，走动起来，开始交谈。列文急于从别人的印象中阐明自己的困惑，开始四处走动，寻找鉴赏家，并很高兴看到一位著名的音乐业余爱好者正在与他认识的佩斯佐夫交谈。

‘Marvelous!’ Pestsov was saying in his mellow bass. ‘How are you, Konstantin Dmitrievitch? Particularly sculpturesque and plastic, so to say, and richly colored is that passage where you feel Cordelia’s approach, where woman, das ewig Weibliche, enters into conflict with fate. Isn’t it?’
“太棒了！”佩佐夫用柔和的低音说道。 “你好吗，康斯坦丁·德米特里耶维奇？可以说，特别有雕塑感和可塑性，而且色彩丰富，你可以感受到科迪莉亚的接近，女人，das ewig Weibliche，与命运发生冲突。不是吗？

‘You mean...what has Cordelia to do with it?’ Levin asked timidly, forgetting that the fantasia was supposed to represent King Lear.
“你的意思是……科迪莉亚和它有什么关系？”莱文胆怯地问道，忘记了这部幻想曲应该代表李尔王。

‘Cordelia comes in...see here!’ said Pestsov, tapping his finger on the satiny surface of the program he held in his hand and passing it to Levin.
“科迪莉亚进来了……看这里！”佩斯佐夫一边说，一边用手指敲击着手里的程序的光滑表面，然后把它递给了莱文。

Only then Levin recollected the title of the fantasia, and made haste to read in the Russian translation the lines from Shakespeare that were printed on the back of the program.
这时，莱文才想起了幻想曲的标题，并匆忙阅读了节目背面印着的莎士比亚诗句的俄文译本。

‘You can’t follow it without that,’ said Pestsov, addressing Levin, as the person he had been speaking to had gone away, and he had no one to talk to.
“如果没有这个，你就无法遵循它，”佩斯佐夫对莱文说，因为与他交谈的人已经走了，他也没有人可以交谈。

In the entr’acte Levin and Pestsov fell into an argument upon the merits and defects of music of the Wagner school. Levin maintained that the mistake of Wagner and all his followers lay in their trying to take music into the sphere of another art, just as poetry goes wrong when it tries to paint a face as the art of painting ought to do, and as an instance of this mistake he cited the sculptor who carved in marble certain poetic phantasms flitting round the figure of the poet on the pedestal. ‘These phantoms were so far from being phantoms that they were positively clinging on the ladder,’ said Levin. The comparison pleased him, but he could not remember whether he had not used the same phrase before, and to Pestsov, too, and as he said it he felt confused.
在开场白中，莱文和佩斯佐夫就瓦格纳学派音乐的优缺点展开了争论。莱文坚持认为，瓦格纳和他的所有追随者的错误在于他们试图将音乐带入另一种艺术的领域，就像诗歌试图按照绘画艺术应该做的那样描绘一张脸时就会出错，并且作为一个例子关于这个错误，他引用了一位雕塑家的例子，这位雕塑家在大理石上雕刻了一些诗意的幻象，这些幻象在基座上诗人的雕像周围掠过。莱文说：“这些幻影根本不是幻影，它们确实紧贴在梯子上。”这种比较让他很高兴，但他记不起自己以前是否没有用过同样的短语，对佩斯佐夫也是如此，当他说这句话的时候，他感到困惑。

Pestsov maintained that art is one, and that it can attain its highest manifestations only by conjunction with all kinds of art.
佩斯佐夫认为艺术是一种艺术，只有与各种艺术相结合才能达到其最高的表现形式。

The second piece that was performed Levin could not hear. Pestsov, who was standing beside him, was talking to him almost all the time, condemning the music for its excessive affected assumption of simplicity, and comparing it with the simplicity of the Pre-Raphaelites in painting. As he went out Levin met many more acquaintances, with whom he talked of politics, of music, and of common acquaintances. Among others he met Count Bol, whom he had utterly forgotten to call upon.
演奏的第二首曲子莱文听不见。站在他身边的佩斯索夫几乎一直在和他说话，谴责音乐过于矫揉造作的简单性，并将其与拉斐尔前派绘画的简单性进行比较。当他出去时，列文遇到了更多的熟人，他与他们谈论政治、音乐和共同的熟人。在其他人中，他遇到了波尔伯爵，但他完全忘记去拜访他了。

‘Well, go at once then,’ Madame Lvova said, when he told her; ‘perhaps they’ll not be at home, and then you can come to the meeting to fetch me. You’ll find me still there.’
当他告诉利沃娃夫人时，她说道：“好吧，那就赶紧走吧。” ‘也许他们不在家，那你可以来开会接我。你会发现我还在那里。

Chapter 6
第6章

‘Perhaps they’re not at home?’ said Levin, as he went into the hall of Countess Bola’s house.
“也许他们不在家？”莱文走进博拉伯爵夫人家的大厅时说道。

‘At home; please walk in,’ said the porter, resolutely removing his overcoat.
'在家里;请进吧。”门房毅然脱下大衣说道。

‘How annoying!’ thought Levin with a sigh, taking off one glove and stroking his hat. ‘What did I come for? What have I to say to them?’
“真烦人！”列文叹了口气，脱下一只手套，抚摸着帽子。 ‘我来干什么？我要对他们说什么？

As he passed through the first drawing room Levin met in the doorway Countess Bola, giving some order to a servant with a care-worn and severe face. On seeing Levin she smiled, and asked him to come into the little drawing room, where he heard voices. In this room there were sitting in armchairs the two daughters of the countess, and a Moscow colonel, whom Levin knew. Levin went up, greeted them, and sat down beside the sofa with his hat on his knees.
当他穿过第一间客厅时，莱文在门口遇见了博拉伯爵夫人，她对一位满脸忧虑而严肃的仆人发出了一些命令。看到莱文，她微笑着，请他到小客厅去，他听到里面有声音。在这个房间里，伯爵夫人的两个女儿坐在扶手椅上，还有列文认识的一位莫斯科上校。莱文上前跟他们打了招呼，然后在沙发旁坐下，帽子搁在膝盖上。

‘How is your wife? Have you been at the concert? We couldn’t go. Mamma had to be at the funeral service.’
'你太太好吗？你去过演唱会吗？我们不能去。妈妈必须参加葬礼。”

‘Yes, I heard.... What a sudden death!’ said Levin.
“是的，我听说……多么突然的死亡啊！”莱文说。

The countess came in, sat down on the sofa, and she too asked after his wife and inquired about the concert.
伯爵夫人进来，在沙发上坐下，也询问了他妻子的情况，询问了音乐会的情况。

Levin answered, and repeated an inquiry about Madame Apraksina’s sudden death.
莱文接了电话，并再次询问了阿普拉克西娜夫人突然去世的情况。

‘But she was always in weak health.’
“但她的健康状况一直很虚弱。”

‘Were you at the opera yesterday?’
“你昨天去歌剧院了吗？”

‘Yes, I was.’
'是的，我是。'

‘Lucca was very good.’
“卢卡非常好。”

‘Yes, very good,’ he said, and as it was utterly of no consequence to him what they thought of him, he began repeating what they had heard a hundred times about the characteristics of the singer’s talent. Countess Bola pretended to be listening. Then, when he had said enough and paused, the colonel, who had been silent till then, began to talk. The colonel too talked of the opera, and about culture. At last, after speaking of the proposed folle journee at Turin’s, the colonel laughed, got up noisily, and went away. Levin too rose, but he saw by the face of the countess that it was not yet time for him to go. He must stay two minutes longer. He sat down.
“是的，很好，”他说，因为他们对他的看法对他来说完全不重要，所以他开始重复他们已经听了一百遍的关于这位歌手的才华特征的内容。波拉伯爵夫人假装在听。然后，等他说够了，停了下来，一直保持沉默的上校开始说话了。上校也谈到了歌剧和文化。最后，在谈到都灵的美好旅程后，上校笑了，大声地站起来，然后走开了。列文也站了起来，但从伯爵夫人的表情来看，他还不到该走的时候。他必须再多呆两分钟。他坐了下来。

But as he was thinking all the while how stupid it was, he could not find a subject for conversation, and sat silent.
但他心里一直在想这是多么愚蠢的事，所以找不到话题，就默默地坐着。

‘You are not going to the public meeting? They say it will be very interesting,’ began the countess.
‘你不去参加公开会议吗？他们说这会很有趣，”伯爵夫人开始说道。

‘No, I promised my belle-soeur to fetch her from it,’ said Levin.
“不，我答应我的美女会把她从里面接出来，”莱文说。

A silence followed. The mother once more exchanged glances with a daughter.
接下来是一阵沉默。母亲再次与女儿交换了眼神。

‘Well, now I think the time has come,’ thought Levin, and he got up. The ladies shook hands with him, and begged him to say mille choses to his wife for them.
“好吧，现在我想时机已经到了，”莱文想道，然后站了起来。女士们与他握手，并请求他替她们说出米勒对他妻子的选择。

The porter asked him, as he gave him his coat, ‘Where is your honor staying?’ and immediately wrote down his address in a big handsomely bound book.
门房一边把外套递给他，一边问他：“阁下住在哪里？”然后立即把他的地址写在一本装订精美的大本子上。

‘Of course I don’t care, but still I feel ashamed and awfully stupid,’ thought Levin, consoling himself with the reflection that everyone does it. He drove to the public meeting, where he was to find his sister-in-law, so as to drive home with her.
“我当然不在乎，但我仍然感到羞耻和非常愚蠢，”列文想，并通过每个人都这样做的反思来安慰自己。他开车去参加公开会议，去找嫂子，然后开车送她回家。

At the public meeting of the committee there were a great many people, and almost all the highest society. Levin was in time for the report which, as everyone said, was very interesting. When the reading of the report was over, people moved about, and Levin met Sviazhsky, who invited him very pressingly to come that evening to a meeting of the Society of Agriculture, where a celebrated lecture was to be delivered, and Stepan Arkadyevitch, who had only just come from the races, and many other acquaintances; and Levin heard and uttered various criticisms on the meeting, on the new fantasia, and on a public trial. But, probably from the mental fatigue he was beginning to feel, he made a blunder in speaking of the trial, and this blunder he recalled several times with vexation. Speaking of the sentence upon a foreigner who had been condemned in Russia, and of how unfair it would be to punish him by exile abroad, Levin repeated what he had heard the day before in conversation from an acquaintance.
参加委员会公开会议的人很多，几乎都是上流社会人士。莱文及时赶到了报告，正如大家所说，报告非常有趣。报告宣读结束后，人们纷纷走动，列文见到了斯维亚日斯基，斯维亚日斯基非常迫切地邀请他当天晚上参加农业协会的一次会议，会上将发表一场著名的演讲，还有斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇，他邀请他参加农业协会的一次会议。刚从比赛回来，还有很多其他熟人；莱文听到并发表了对会议、新幻想曲和公开审判的各种批评。但是，可能是由于他开始感到精神疲劳，他在谈论审判时犯了一个错误，他多次懊恼地回忆起这个错误。谈到一名在俄罗斯被定罪的外国人的判决，以及将他流放国外的惩罚是多么不公平，莱文重复了他前一天从一位熟人谈话中听到的内容。

‘I think sending him abroad is much the same as punishing a carp by putting it into the water,’ said Levin. Then he recollected that this idea, which he had heard from an acquaintance and uttered as his own, came from a fable of Krilov’s, and that the acquaintance had picked it up from a newspaper article.
“我认为把他送到国外就像把鲤鱼扔进水里惩罚它一样，”莱文说。然后他想起这个想法是他从一个熟人那里听来的，也是他自己说出来的，来自克里洛夫的一则寓言，而这个熟人是从一篇报纸文章中得到的。

After driving home with his sister-in-law, and finding Kitty in good spirits and quite well, Levin drove to the club.
莱文和嫂子开车回家后，发现基蒂精神很好，身体也很好，就开车去了俱乐部。

Chapter 7
第7章

Levin reached the club just at the right time. Members and visitors were driving up as he arrived. Levin had not been at the club for a very long while—not since he lived in Moscow, when he was leaving the university and going into society. He remembered the club, the external details of its arrangement, but he had completely forgotten the impression it had made on him in old days. But as soon as, driving into the wide semicircular court and getting out of the sledge, he mounted the steps, and the hall porter, adorned with a crossway scarf, noiselessly opened the door to him with a bow; as soon as he saw in the porter’s room the cloaks and galoshes of members who thought it less trouble to take them off downstairs; as soon as he heard the mysterious ringing bell that preceded him as he ascended the easy, carpeted staircase, and saw the statue on the landing, and the third porter at the top doors, a familiar figure grown older, in the club livery, opening the door without haste or delay, and scanning the visitors as they passed in—Levin felt the old impression of the club come back in a rush, an impression of repose, comfort, and propriety.
莱文在正确的时间到达了俱乐部。当他到达时，会员和访客正在开车过来。莱文已经有很长一段时间没有来俱乐部了——自从他住在莫斯科之后，他就离开了大学，进入了社会。他记得那个俱乐部，记得它的外部细节，但他已经完全忘记了昔日它给他留下的印象。但当他驶入宽阔的半圆形庭院，下了雪橇，登上台阶时，戴着十字围巾的门房无声无息地向他鞠了一躬，为他打开了门；当他在门房的房间里看到成员们的斗篷和套鞋时，他们认为在楼下脱掉它们会更省事；当他听到前面神秘的铃声响起时，他登上了铺着地毯的简易楼梯，看到了楼梯平台上的雕像，以及顶门上的第三个门房，一个熟悉的身影，年纪越来越大，穿着俱乐部制服，正在开门。不慌不忙地推开门，扫视着进来的客人——莱文感觉俱乐部的旧印象一下子又回来了，一种安宁、舒适和得体的印象。

‘Your hat, please,’ the porter said to Levin, who forgot the club rule to leave his hat in the porter’s room. ‘Long time since you’ve been. The prince put your name down yesterday. Prince Stepan Arkadyevitch is not here yet.’
“请给你的帽子，”门房对莱文说，莱文忘记了俱乐部的规定，把他的帽子留在门房的房间里。 ‘你已经很久没来了。王子昨天记下了你的名字。斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇王子还没来。

The porter did not only know Levin, but also all his ties and relationships, and so immediately mentioned his intimate friends.
搬运工不仅认识莱文，还认识他所有的联系和关系，所以立即提到了他的亲密朋友。

Passing through the outer hall, divided up by screens, and the room partitioned on the right, where a man sits at the fruit buffet, Levin overtook an old man walking slowly in, and entered the dining room full of noise and people.
穿过被屏风隔开的外厅，以及右边隔着一个男人坐在水果自助餐台上的房间，莱文追上了一位缓缓走进来的老人，进入了喧闹、人声鼎沸的餐厅。

He walked along the tables, almost all full, and looked at the visitors. He saw people of all sorts, old and young; some he knew a little, some intimate friends. There was not a single cross or worried-looking face. All seemed to have left their cares and anxieties in the porter’s room with their hats, and were all deliberately getting ready to enjoy the material blessings of life. Sviazhsky was here and Shtcherbatsky, Nevyedovsky and the old prince, and Vronsky and Sergey Ivanovitch.
他沿着桌子走来走去，桌子几乎都坐满了，他看着来访者。他见过各种各样的人，有年老的，也有年轻的；有些是他认识的，有些是亲密的朋友。没有一张痛苦的脸或忧心忡忡的表情。所有人似乎都把自己的烦恼和忧虑都抛在了门房的房间里，带着帽子，都在刻意准备享受生活的物质幸福。斯维亚日斯基、谢尔巴茨基、涅维耶多夫斯基和老王子、渥伦斯基和谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇都在这里。

‘Ah! why are you late?’ the prince said smiling, and giving him his hand over his own shoulder. ‘How’s Kitty?’ he added, smoothing out the napkin he had tucked in at his waistcoat buttons.
'啊！你为什么迟到了？”王子微笑着说，把手搭在自己的肩上。 “基蒂怎么样？”他补充道，同时抚平塞在背心纽扣处的餐巾。

‘All right; they are dining at home, all the three of them.’
'好的;他们三个人都在家里吃饭。”

‘Ah, ‘Aline-Nadine,’ to be sure! There’s no room with us. Go to that table, and make haste and take a seat,’ said the prince, and turning away he carefully took a plate of eel soup.
“啊，当然是‘艾琳-纳丁’！”我们没有空位了。到那桌去，赶紧坐下。”王子说着，转身小心翼翼地接了一盘鳗鱼汤。

‘Levin, this way!’ a good-natured voice shouted a little farther on. It was Turovtsin. He was sitting with a young officer, and beside them were two chairs turned upside down. Levin gladly went up to them. He had always liked the good-hearted rake, Turovtsin—he was associated in his mind with memories of his courtship—and at that moment, after the strain of intellectual conversation, the sight of Turovtsin’s good-natured face was particularly welcome.
“莱文，这边！”稍远处有一个和善的声音喊道。是图罗夫钦。他和一名年轻军官坐在一起，他们旁边有两张倒扣的椅子。列文高兴地走到他们跟前。他一直很喜欢图罗夫钦这个心地善良的浪荡子——在他的脑海里，他与求爱的记忆联系在一起——此时此刻，在紧张的智力谈话之后，看到图罗夫钦那张和善的脸特别受欢迎。

‘For you and Oblonsky. He’ll be here directly.’
“为了你和奥布朗斯基。他会直接来这里。

The young man, holding himself very erect, with eyes forever twinkling with enjoyment, was an officer from Petersburg, Gagin. Turovtsin introduced them.
那个年轻人，身体挺得笔直，眼睛里永远闪烁着享受的光芒，是一位来自彼得堡的军官，加金。图罗夫钦介绍了他们。

‘Oblonsky’s always late.’
“奥布朗斯基总是迟到。”

‘Ah, here he is!’
“啊，他在这里！”

‘Have you only just come?’ said Oblonsky, coming quickly towards them. ‘Good day. Had some vodka? Well, come along then.’
“你们才刚来吗？”奥布朗斯基快步朝他们走来，说道。 '再会。有伏特加吗？好吧，那就一起来吧。

Levin got up and went with him to the big table spread with spirits and appetizers of the most various kinds. One would have thought that out of two dozen delicacies one might find something to one’s taste, but Stepan Arkadyevitch asked for something special, and one of the liveried waiters standing by immediately brought what was required. They drank a wine glassful and returned to their table.
列文起身，陪他走到摆满烈酒和各种开胃菜的大桌子旁。人们本以为在两打美味佳肴中可能会找到一些合自己口味的东西，但斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇想要一些特别的东西，站在旁边的一位穿制服的侍者立即送来了需要的东西。他们喝了一杯酒，然后回到餐桌。

At once, while they were still at the soup, Gagin was served with champagne, and told the waiter to fill four glasses. Levin did not refuse the wine, and asked for a second bottle. He was very hungry, and ate and drank with great enjoyment, and with still greater enjoyment took part in the lively and simple conversation of his companions. Gagin, dropping his voice, told the last good story from Petersburg, and the story, though improper and stupid, was so ludicrous that Levin broke into roars of laughter so loud that those near looked round.
当他们还在喝汤的时候，加金就被端上了香槟，并让服务员倒了四杯。莱文没有拒绝这酒，又要了第二瓶。他很饿，吃得很开心，喝得也很开心，更高兴的是参加同伴们活泼简单的谈话。加金压低了声音，讲述了彼得堡的最后一个好故事，这个故事虽然不合时宜、愚蠢至极，但实在是太可笑了，莱文爆发出一阵大笑，让附近的人都转过头来。

‘That’s in the same style as, ‘that’s a thing I can’t endure!’ You know the story?’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch. ‘Ah, that’s exquisite! Another bottle,’ he said to the waiter, and he began to relate his good story.
“这和‘这是我无法忍受的事情！’的风格是一样的，你知道这个故事吗？”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇说。 「啊，真是绝妙啊！再来一瓶，”他对服务员说，然后开始讲述他的好故事。

‘Pyotr Illyitch Vinovsky invites you to drink with him,’ a little old waiter interrupted Stepan Arkadyevitch, bringing two delicate glasses of sparkling champagne, and addressing Stepan Arkadyevitch and Levin. Stepan Arkadyevitch took the glass, and looking towards a bald man with red mustaches at the other end of the table, he nodded to him, smiling.
“彼得·伊里奇·维诺夫斯基邀请你们和他一起喝酒。”一位身材矮小的老侍者打断了斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇的话，端来了两杯精致的起泡香槟，对斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇和莱文说道。斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇接过酒杯，看着桌子另一端一个留着红胡子的秃头男人，微笑着向他点点头。

‘Who’s that?’ asked Levin.
“那是谁？”莱文问道。

‘You met him once at my place, don’t you remember? A good-natured fellow.’
“你在我家见过他一次，你不记得了吗？一个心地善良的人。

Levin did the same as Stepan Arkadyevitch and took the glass.
列文和斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇一样，拿起了杯子。

Stepan Arkadyevitch’s anecdote too was very amusing. Levin told his story, and that too was successful. Then they talked of horses, of the races, of what they had been doing that day, and of how smartly Vronsky’s Atlas had won the first prize. Levin did not notice how the time passed at dinner.
斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇的轶事也很有趣。莱文讲述了他的故事，这也很成功。然后他们谈论马匹、比赛、那天所做的事情，以及渥伦斯基的阿特拉斯如何聪明地赢得了第一名。莱文没有注意到晚餐时间是怎样度过的。

‘Ah! and here they are!’ Stepan Arkadyevitch said towards the end of dinner, leaning over the back of his chair and holding out his hand to Vronsky, who came up with a tall officer of the Guards. Vronsky’s face too beamed with the look of good-humored enjoyment that was general in the club. He propped his elbow playfully on Stepan Arkadyevitch’s shoulder, whispering something to him, and he held out his hand to Levin with the same good-humored smile.
'啊！ “他们来了！”晚餐即将结束时，斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇靠在椅背上，向渥伦斯基伸出了手，后者走过来的是一位身材高大的近卫军军官。渥伦斯基的脸上也洋溢着俱乐部里常见的愉快的表情。他开玩笑地把胳膊肘撑在斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇的肩膀上，对他低声说了些什么，然后又带着同样幽默的微笑向列文伸出了手。

‘Very glad to meet you,’ he said. ‘I looked out for you at the election, but I was told you had gone away.’
“很高兴见到你，”他说。 “我在选举期间一直在寻找你，但我被告知你已经离开了。”

‘Yes, I left the same day. We’ve just been talking of your horse. I congratulate you,’ said Levin. ‘It was very rapidly run.’
“是的，我当天就离开了。我们刚刚谈到了你的马。我祝贺你，”莱文说。 “它运行得非常快。”

‘Yes; you’ve race horses too, haven’t you?’
'是的;你也赛马，不是吗？

‘No, my father had; but I remember and know something about it.’
“不，我父亲有；但我记得并且知道一些事情。”

‘Where have you dined?’ asked Stepan Arkadyevitch.
“你在哪儿吃的饭？”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇问道。

‘We were at the second table, behind the columns.’
“我们在第二张桌子，在柱子后面。”

‘We’ve been celebrating his success,’ said the tall colonel. ‘It’s his second Imperial prize. I wish I might have the luck at cards he has with horses. Well, why waste the precious time? I’m going to the ‘infernal regions,’’ added the colonel, and he walked away.
“我们一直在庆祝他的成功，”高个子上校说道。 “这是他第二次获得帝国奖。”我希望我能有幸获得他的马牌。那么，为什么要浪费宝贵的时间呢？我要去‘地狱地区’，”上校补充道，然后就走开了。

‘That’s Yashvin,’ Vronsky said in answer to Turovtsin, and he sat down in the vacated seat beside them. He drank the glass offered him, and ordered a bottle of wine. Under the influence of the club atmosphere or the wine he had drunk, Levin chatted away to Vronsky of the best breeds of cattle, and was very glad not to feel the slightest hostility to this man. He even told him, among other things, that he had heard from his wife that she had met him at Princess Marya Borissovna’s.
“那是亚什温，”渥伦斯基回答图罗夫钦，然后在他们旁边空出的座位上坐下。他喝掉了递给他的杯子，并点了一瓶酒。受俱乐部气氛或喝过的酒的影响，莱文和渥伦斯基聊起了最好的牛品种，很高兴没有对这个人产生丝毫敌意。他甚至告诉他，除其他外，他从妻子那里听说她在玛丽亚·鲍里索芙娜公主家遇见了他。

‘Ah, Princess Marya Borissovna, she’s exquisite!’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch, and he told an anecdote about her which set them all laughing. Vronsky particularly laughed with such simplehearted amusement that Levin felt quite reconciled to him.
“啊，玛丽亚·鲍里索夫娜公主，她真是太漂亮了！”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇说道，他讲了一件关于她的轶事，引得大家都笑了起来。尤其是渥伦斯基，他笑得那么单纯，让列文对他感到很心安。

‘Well, have we finished?’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch, getting up with a smile. ‘Let us go.’
“好了，我们讲完了吗？”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇微笑着站起来说道。 '让我们去。'

Chapter 8
第8章

Getting up from the table, Levin walked with Gagin through the lofty room to the billiard room, feeling his arms swing as he walked with a peculiar lightness and ease. As he crossed the big room, he came upon his father-in-law.
从桌子上站起来，莱文和加金一起穿过高高的房间，来到了台球室，感觉他的手臂在摆动，走起路来有一种奇特的轻盈和从容。当他穿过大房间时，他遇到了他的岳父。

‘Well, how do you like our Temple of Indolence?’ said the prince, taking his arm. ‘Come along, come along!’
“那么，你觉得我们的懒惰神殿怎么样？”王子挽着他的手臂说道。 “来吧，来吧！”

‘Yes, I wanted to walk about and look at everything. It’s interesting.’
“是的，我想四处走走，看看一切。这真有趣。'

‘Yes, it’s interesting for you. But its interest for me is quite different. You look at those little old men now,’ he said, pointing to a club member with bent back and projecting lip, shuffling towards them in his soft boots, ‘and imagine that they were shlupiks like that from their birth up.’
‘是的，这对你来说很有趣。但它对我的兴趣却截然不同。你现在看看那些小老头，”他指着一名向后弯着、嘴唇突出的俱乐部会员，穿着软靴拖着脚步向他们走来，“想象一下他们从出生起就是这样的什鲁皮克。”

‘How shlupiks?’
“怎么样？”

‘I see you don’t know that name. That’s our club designation. You know the game of rolling eggs: when one’s rolled a long while it becomes a shlupik. So it is with us; one goes on coming and coming to the club, and ends by becoming a shlupik. Ah, you laugh! but we look out, for fear of dropping into it ourselves. You know Prince Tchetchensky?’ inquired the prince; and Levin saw by his face that he was just going to relate something funny.
“我看你不知道这个名字。这是我们俱乐部的名称。你知道滚鸡蛋的游戏：当一个人滚动很长时间时，它就变成了一个shlupik。我们也是如此；一个人不断地来到俱乐部，最后成为一名什鲁皮克。啊，你笑了！但我们还是小心翼翼，生怕自己掉进去。 “你认识切琴斯基王子吗？”王子问道。莱文从他的表情看出他只是要讲述一些有趣的事情。

‘No, I don’t know him.’
“不，我不认识他。”

‘You don’t say so! Well, Prince Tchetchensky is a well-known figure. No matter, though. He’s always playing billiards here. Only three years ago he was not a shlupik and kept up his spirits and even used to call other people shlupiks. But one day he turns up, and our porter...you know Vassily? Why, that fat one; he’s famous for his bon mots. And so Prince Tchetchensky asks him, ‘Come, Vassily, who’s here? Any shlupiks here yet?’ And he says, ‘You’re the third.’ Yes, my dear boy, that he did!’
‘你不这么说！嗯，切琴斯基王子是一位众所周知的人物。不过没关系。他总是在这里打台球。仅在三年前，他还不是什鲁皮克，但他仍保持着精神状态，甚至习惯称其他人为什鲁皮克。但有一天他出现了，我们的搬运工……你认识瓦西里吗？哎呀，那个胖子；他以他的俏皮话而闻名。于是切琴斯基王子问他：‘来吧，瓦西里，谁在这里？这里还有什鲁皮克吗？”他说，“你是第三个。”是的，我亲爱的孩子，他做到了！”

Talking and greeting the friends they met, Levin and the prince walked through all the rooms: the great room where tables had already been set, and the usual partners were playing for small stakes; the divan room, where they were playing chess, and Sergey Ivanovitch was sitting talking to somebody; the billiard room, where, about a sofa in a recess, there was a lively party drinking champagne—Gagin was one of them. They peeped into the ‘infernal regions,’ where a good many men were crowding round one table, at which Yashvin was sitting. Trying not to make a noise, they walked into the dark reading room, where under the shaded lamps there sat a young man with a wrathful countenance, turning over one journal after another, and a bald general buried in a book. They went, too, into what the prince called the intellectual room, where three gentlemen were engaged in a heated discussion of the latest political news.
莱文和王子一边聊天，一边和他们遇到的朋友打招呼，走过所有的房间：大房间里已经摆好了桌子，平常的伙伴们正在玩小赌注；大房间里的桌子已经摆好，平常的伙伴们正在玩小赌注；还有一个房间，里面已经摆好桌子了。沙发室，他们正在下棋，谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇正坐着和某人聊天；台球室里，凹处的一张沙发周围，正在举行一场热闹的聚会，喝着香槟——加金就是其中之一。他们窥视“地狱区域”，那里有很多男人围着一张桌子，亚什文就坐在这张桌子旁。他们尽量不发出声音，走进昏暗的阅览室，昏暗的灯下，坐着一位年轻男子，一脸愤怒地翻着一本又一本的日记，还有一位光头将军埋头读书。他们还走进了王子所谓的知识室，三位先生正在那里热烈讨论最新的政治新闻。

‘Prince, please come, we’re ready,’ said one of his card party, who had come to look for him, and the prince went off. Levin sat down and listened, but recalling all the conversation of the morning he felt all of a sudden fearfully bored. He got up hurriedly, and went to look for Oblonsky and Turovtsin, with whom it had been so pleasant.
“王子，请来，我们已经准备好了。”一位来找他的纸牌党成员说道，然后王子就离开了。列文坐下来听着，但回想起早上的所有谈话，他突然感到非常无聊。他连忙起身，去找奥布隆斯基和图罗夫钦，和他们相处得很愉快。

Turovtsin was one of the circle drinking in the billiard room, and Stepan Arkadyevitch was talking with Vronsky near the door at the farther corner of the room.
图罗夫钦是台球室里喝酒的人之一，斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇正在房间另一角的门边与渥伦斯基交谈。

‘It’s not that she’s dull; but this undefined, this unsettled position,’ Levin caught, and he was hurrying away, but Stepan Arkadyevitch called to him.
“这并不是因为她迟钝；而是因为她迟钝。”但这个不确定的、这个不稳定的位置，’列文抓住了，他正匆匆走开，但斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇叫住了他。

‘Levin,’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch, and Levin noticed that his eyes were not full of tears exactly, but moist, which always happened when he had been drinking, or when he was touched. Just now it was due to both causes. ‘Levin, don’t go,’ he said, and he warmly squeezed his arm above the elbow, obviously not at all wishing to let him go.
“列文，”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇说，列文注意到他的眼睛里并不是满是泪水，而是湿漉漉的，这种情况在他喝酒或被触摸时总是会发生。刚才是两个原因造成的。 “莱文，别走。”他说道，并热情地捏住了他的胳膊肘部上方，显然根本不想让他走。

‘This is a true friend of mine—almost my greatest friend,’ he said to Vronsky. ‘You have become even closer and dearer to me. And I want you, and I know you ought, to be friends, and great friends, because you’re both splendid fellows.’
“这是我真正的朋友——几乎是我最好的朋友，”他对渥伦斯基说。 ‘你对我变得更加亲近、更加亲爱。我希望你们，而且我知道你们应该成为朋友，而且是好朋友，因为你们都是很棒的人。”

‘Well, there’s nothing for us now but to kiss and be friends,’ Vronsky said, with good-natured playfulness, holding out his hand.
“好吧，现在我们除了接吻和做朋友之外别无他法。”渥伦斯基伸出手，带着善意的玩笑说道。

Levin quickly took the offered hand, and pressed it warmly.
莱文迅速握住了伸出的手，温暖地握着。

‘I’m very, very glad,’ said Levin.
“我非常非常高兴，”莱文说。

‘Waiter, a bottle of champagne,’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch.
“服务员，来一瓶香槟。”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇说道。

‘And I’m very glad,’ said Vronsky.
“我很高兴，”渥伦斯基说。

But in spite of Stepan Arkadyevitch’s desire, and their own desire, they had nothing to talk about, and both felt it.
但是，尽管斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇有这样的愿望，也有他们自己的愿望，他们却无话可说，而且两人都感觉到了。

‘Do you know, he has never met Anna?’ Stepan Arkadyevitch said to Vronsky. ‘And I want above everything to take him to see her. Let us go, Levin!’
“你知道吗，他从来没有见过安娜？”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇对渥伦斯基说道。 “我最想带他去见她。我们走吧，莱文！”

‘Really?’ said Vronsky. ‘She will be very glad to see you. I should be going home at once,’ he added, ‘but I’m worried about Yashvin, and I want to stay on till he finishes.’
“真的吗？”渥伦斯基说。 ‘她会很高兴见到你。我应该立即回家，”他补充道，“但我担心亚什文，我想留下来直到他结束。”

‘Why, is he losing?’
“为什么，他输了？”

‘He keeps losing, and I’m the only friend that can restrain him.’
“他一直在输，而我是唯一能阻止他的朋友。”

‘Well, what do you say to pyramids? Levin, will you play? Capital!’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch. ‘Get the table ready,’ he said to the marker.
“好吧，你对金字塔有什么看法？莱文，你会玩吗？首都！”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇说道。 “准备好桌子，”他对记分员说。

‘It has been ready a long while,’ answered the marker, who had already set the balls in a triangle, and was knocking the red one about for his own diversion.
“已经准备好很长时间了，”记分员回答道，他已经把球排成了三角形，并敲打着红色的球以转移注意力。

‘Well, let us begin.’
“好吧，让我们开始吧。”

After the game Vronsky and Levin sat down at Gagin’s table, and at Stepan Arkadyevitch’s suggestion Levin took a hand in the game.
比赛结束后，渥伦斯基和莱文坐在加金的桌子旁，在斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇的建议下，莱文也参与了比赛。

Vronsky sat down at the table, surrounded by friends, who were incessantly coming up to him. Every now and then he went to the ‘infernal’ to keep an eye on Yashvin. Levin was enjoying a delightful sense of repose after the mental fatigue of the morning. He was glad that all hostility was at an end with Vronsky, and the sense of peace, decorum, and comfort never left him.
渥伦斯基在桌边坐下，周围都是不断向他走来的朋友。他时不时地去‘地狱’监视亚什文。经过一上午的精神疲劳之后，莱文正在享受一种令人愉快的休息感。他很高兴渥伦斯基的所有敌意都结束了，平静、得体和舒适的感觉从未离开过他。

When the game was over, Stepan Arkadyevitch took Levin’s arm.
比赛结束后，斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇挽住了莱文的手臂。

‘Well, let us go to Anna’s, then. At once? Eh? She is at home. I promised her long ago to bring you. Where were you meaning to spend the evening?’
“好吧，那我们去安娜家吧。立刻？呃？她在家。我早就答应她带你来了。你打算去哪里过夜？

‘Oh, nowhere specially. I promised Sviazhsky to go to the Society of Agriculture. By all means, let us go,’ said Levin.
‘噢，没有什么特别的地方。我答应斯维亚日斯基去农业协会。无论如何，我们走吧，”莱文说。

‘Very good; come along. Find out if my carriage is here,’ Stepan Arkadyevitch said to the waiter.
'非常好;一起来。看看我的马车是否在这里。”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇对侍者说道。

Levin went up to the table, paid the forty roubles he had lost; paid his bill, the amount of which was in some mysterious way ascertained by the little old waiter who stood at the counter, and swinging his arms he walked through all the rooms to the way out.
列文走到桌前，付清了他损失的四十卢布。付了帐，站在柜台前的小个子老服务员以某种神秘的方式确定了帐单的金额，他挥舞着双臂穿过所有的房间，走到出口。

Chapter 9
第9章

‘Oblonsky’s carriage!’ the porter shouted in an angry bass. The carriage drove up and both got in. It was only for the first few moments, while the carriage was driving out of the clubhouse gates, that Levin was still under the influence of the club atmosphere of repose, comfort, and unimpeachable good form. But as soon as the carriage drove out into the street, and he felt it jolting over the uneven road, heard the angry shout of a sledge driver coming towards them, saw in the uncertain light the red blind of a tavern and the shops, this impression was dissipated, and he began to think over his actions, and to wonder whether he was doing right in going to see Anna. What would Kitty say? But Stepan Arkadyevitch gave him no time for reflection, and, as though divining his doubts, he scattered them.
“奥布朗斯基的马车！”搬运工用愤怒的低音喊道。马车开过来，两人上了车。 只是在马车驶出会所大门的最初几分钟里，莱文还沉浸在俱乐部宁静、舒适、无可挑剔的良好状态的氛围中。但马车一开到街上，他就感觉到马车在凹凸不平的路面上颠簸起来，听见雪橇夫朝他们走来的愤怒的叫喊声，在朦胧的光线中看到了一家酒馆和商店的红色百叶窗，这印象消散了，他开始反思自己的行为，怀疑自己去见安娜是否正确。凯蒂会说什么？但斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇没有给他思考的时间，就像猜透了他的疑虑一样，他把它们驱散了。

‘How glad I am,’ he said, ‘that you should know her! You know Dolly has long wished for it. And Lvov’s been to see her, and often goes. Though she is my sister,’ Stepan Arkadyevitch pursued, ‘I don’t hesitate to say that she’s a remarkable woman. But you will see. Her position is very painful, especially now.’
“我多么高兴，”他说，“你认识她！”你知道多莉长期以来一直希望如此。利沃夫也经常去看她。虽然她是我的妹妹，”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇继续说道，“但我毫不犹豫地说，她是一位了不起的女人。但你会看到。她的处境非常痛苦，尤其是现在。”

‘Why especially now?’
“为什么特别是现在？”

‘We are carrying on negotiations with her husband about a divorce. And he’s agreed; but there are difficulties in regard to the son, and the business, which ought to have been arranged long ago, has been dragging on for three months past. As soon as the divorce is over, she will marry Vronsky. How stupid these old ceremonies are, that no one believes in, and which only prevent people being comfortable!’ Stepan Arkadyevitch put in. ‘Well, then their position will be as regular as mine, as yours.’
“我们正在与她丈夫就离婚事宜进行谈判。他同意了；但儿子遇到了困难，本来早就该安排好的事情，却拖了三个月了。离婚一结束，她就会嫁给渥伦斯基。这些古老的仪式是多么愚蠢啊，没人相信，而且只会让人们感到不舒服！”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇插嘴道。“那么，他们的位置就会像我的、你的一样固定。

‘What is the difficulty?’ said Levin.
“有什么困难吗？”莱文说。

‘Oh, it’s a long and tedious story! The whole business is in such an anomalous position with us. But the point is she has been for three months in Moscow, where everyone knows her, waiting for the divorce; she goes out nowhere, sees no woman except Dolly, because, do you understand, she doesn’t care to have people come as a favor. That fool Princess Varvara, even she has left her, considering this a breach of propriety. Well, you see, in such a position any other woman would not have found resources in herself. But you’ll see how she has arranged her life—how calm, how dignified she is. To the left, in the crescent opposite the church!’ shouted Stepan Arkadyevitch, leaning out of the window. ‘Phew! how hot it is!’ he said, in spite of twelve degrees of frost, flinging his open overcoat still wider open.
‘哦，这是一个又长又乏味的故事！整个行业对我们来说处于一种异常的地位。但关键是，她已经在莫斯科待了三个月了，那里的人都认识她，等待离婚。她哪儿也不去，除了多莉之外，看不到任何女人，因为，你明白吗，她不喜欢别人来帮忙。瓦尔瓦拉公主那个傻瓜，连她自己都离开了她，认为这是失礼的行为。好吧，你看，在这样的位置上，任何其他女人都不会在自己身上找到资源。但你会看到她是如何安排自己的生活的——她是多么平静、多么端庄。左边，在教堂对面的新月形地方！”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇把身子探出窗外喊道。 ‘唷！多热啊！”他不顾十二度的霜冻说道，同时把他敞开的大衣掀得更开。

‘But she has a daughter: no doubt she’s busy looking after her?’ said Levin.
“但她有一个女儿：毫无疑问她正忙着照顾她？”莱文说。

‘I believe you picture every woman simply as a female, une couveuse,’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch. ‘If she’s occupied, it must be with her children. No, she brings her up capitally, I believe, but one doesn’t hear about her. She’s busy, in the first place, with what she writes. I see you’re smiling ironically, but you’re wrong. She’s writing a children’s book, and doesn’t talk about it to anyone, but she read it to me and I gave the manuscript to Vorkuev...you know the publisher...and he’s an author himself too, I fancy. He understands those things, and he says it’s a remarkable piece of work. But are you fancying she’s an authoress?—not a bit of it. She’s a woman with a heart, before everything, but you’ll see. Now she has a little English girl with her, and a whole family she’s looking after.’
“我相信你把每个女人都简单地想象为女性，une couveuse，”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇说。 “如果她有事，一定是和孩子们在一起。不，我相信她把她养大了，但人们没有听说过她。首先，她很忙于写东西。我看到你在讽刺地微笑，但你错了。她正在写一本儿童读物，不会和任何人谈论它，但她读给我听，我把手稿交给了沃尔库耶夫……你知道出版商……我想他本人也是一位作家。他理解这些事情，他说这是一件了不起的工作。但你认为她是一名女作家吗？——一点也不。她是一个有爱心的女人，最重要的是，但你会看到的。现在她身边有一个英国小女孩，还有她照顾的整个家庭。”

‘Oh, something in a philanthropic way?’
“哦，慈善方面的事情吗？”

‘Why, you will look at everything in the worst light. It’s not from philanthropy, it’s from the heart. They—that is, Vronsky— had a trainer, an Englishman, first-rate in his own line, but a drunkard. He’s completely given up to drink—delirium tremens— and the family were cast on the world. She saw them, helped them, got more and more interested in them, and now the whole family is on her hands. But not by way of patronage, you know, helping with money; she’s herself preparing the boys in Russian for the high school, and she’s taken the little girl to live with her. But you’ll see her for yourself.’
‘为什么，你会用最坏的眼光来看待一切。这不是出于慈善，而是发自内心。他们——也就是渥伦斯基——有一个训练师，一个英国人，在他自己的行列中是一流的，但却是一个酒鬼。他完全戒酒了——震颤性谵妄——而他的家人也被抛在了世界上。她看到了他们，帮助了他们，对他们越来越感兴趣，现在整个家庭都在她的手上。但你知道，不是通过赞助、金钱方面的帮助；她自己正在用俄语为男孩们上高中做准备，她还带着小女孩和她住在一起。但你会亲眼见到她的。

The carriage drove into the courtyard, and Stepan Arkadyevitch rang loudly at the entrance where sledges were standing.
马车驶进院子，斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇在停着雪橇的入口处大声鸣响。

And without asking the servant who opened the door whether the lady were at home, Stepan Arkadyevitch walked into the hall. Levin followed him, more and more doubtful whether he was doing right or wrong.
斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇没有问开门的仆人这位女士是否在家，就走进了大厅。莱文跟着他，越来越怀疑自己这样做是对还是错。

Looking at himself in the glass, Levin noticed that he was red in the face, but he felt certain he was not drunk, and he followed Stepan Arkadyevitch up the carpeted stairs. At the top Stepan Arkadyevitch inquired of the footman, who bowed to him as to an intimate friend, who was with Anna Arkadyevna, and received the answer that it was M. Vorkuev.
列文看着镜子里的自己，发现自己脸色通红，但他确信自己没有喝醉，于是他跟着斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇上了铺着地毯的楼梯。斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇在楼上询问男仆，男仆向安娜·阿尔卡季耶芙娜身边的一位亲密朋友鞠躬，得到的答复是沃尔库耶夫先生。

‘Where are they?’
'他们在哪里？'

‘In the study.’
“在书房里。”

Passing through the dining room, a room not very large, with dark, paneled walls, Stepan Arkadyevitch and Levin walked over the soft carpet to the half-dark study, lighted up by a single lamp with a big dark shade. Another lamp with a reflector was hanging on the wall, lighting up a big full-length portrait of a woman, which Levin could not help looking at. It was the portrait of Anna, painted in Italy by Mihailov. While Stepan Arkadyevitch went behind the treillage, and the man’s voice which had been speaking paused, Levin gazed at the portrait, which stood out from the frame in the brilliant light thrown on it, and he could not tear himself away from it. He positively forgot where he was, and not even hearing what was said, he could not take his eyes off the marvelous portrait. It was not a picture, but a living, charming woman, with black curling hair, with bare arms and shoulders, with a pensive smile on the lips, covered with soft down; triumphantly and softly she looked at him with eyes that baffled him. She was not living only because she was more beautiful than a living woman can be.
穿过餐厅，房间不是很大，墙壁是深色的镶板墙，斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇和莱文走过柔软的地毯，来到半暗的书房，书房里有一盏带有大黑灯罩的灯照亮。墙上挂着另一盏带反光镜的灯，照亮了一幅巨大的女人全身肖像，莱文忍不住看了一眼。这是米哈伊洛夫在意大利画的安娜肖像。当斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇走到窗饰后面，说话的人的声音停了下来时，列文凝视着那幅肖像，在灿烂的灯光照射下，它从画框中脱颖而出，他无法将自己从它身上移开。他完全忘记了自己在哪里，甚至没有听到他们说什么，他的目光就无法从那幅精美的肖像上移开。那不是一幅画，而是一个活生生的、迷人的女人，一头黑色的卷发，裸露着手臂和肩膀，嘴角挂着若有所思的微笑，身上覆盖着柔软的绒毛；她得意地、温柔地看着他，眼神让他困惑不已。她活着并不仅仅是因为她比活着的女人更美丽。

‘I am delighted!’ He heard suddenly near him a voice, unmistakably addressing him, the voice of the very woman he had been admiring in the portrait. Anna had come from behind the treillage to meet him, and Levin saw in the dim light of the study the very woman of the portrait, in a dark blue shot gown, not in the same position nor with the same expression, but with the same perfection of beauty which the artist had caught in the portrait. She was less dazzling in reality, but, on the other hand, there was something fresh and seductive in the living woman which was not in the portrait.
“我很高兴！”他突然听到附近有一个声音，毫无疑问是在对他说话，正是肖像中他所欣赏的那个女人的声音。安娜从窗纱后面出来迎接他，莱文在书房昏暗的灯光下看到了肖像中的那个女人，穿着一件深蓝色的长袍，姿势和表情都不一样，但有着同样的表情。艺术家在肖像中捕捉到了完美的美感。现实中的她没有那么耀眼，但另一方面，活生生的女人身上却有一种肖像上没有的新鲜和诱惑。

Chapter 10
第10章

She had risen to meet him, not concealing her pleasure at seeing him; and in the quiet ease with which she held out her little vigorous hand, introduced him to Vorkuev and indicated a red-haired, pretty little girl who was sitting at work, calling her her pupil, Levin recognized and liked the manners of a woman of the great world, always self-possessed and natural.
她起身迎接他，毫不掩饰见到他的高兴。她平静而轻松地伸出她有力的小手，把他介绍给沃尔库耶夫，并指着一个正在工作的红发漂亮小女孩，称她为自己的学生，莱文认出了并喜欢一个女人的举止。大千世界，总是泰然自若，自然而然。

‘I am delighted, delighted,’ she repeated, and on her lips these simple words took for Levin’s ears a special significance. ‘I have known you and liked you for a long while, both from your friendship with Stiva and for your wife’s sake.... I knew her for a very short time, but she left on me the impression of an exquisite flower, simply a flower. And to think she will soon be a mother!’
“我很高兴，很高兴。”她重复道，这些简单的话语从她嘴里说出，对莱文来说却有着特殊的意义。 “我认识你、喜欢你很久了，既是因为你和斯蒂瓦的友谊，也是为了你妻子……我认识她的时间很短，但她给我留下的印象就像一朵精致的花，简直就是……”一朵花。想想她很快就会成为一名母亲！”

She spoke easily and without haste, looking now and then from Levin to her brother, and Levin felt that the impression he was making was good, and he felt immediately at home, simple and happy with her, as though he had known her from childhood.
她说话轻松而不匆忙，时不时地看看莱文，看看她的哥哥，莱文觉得他给人留下的印象很好，他立刻感到宾至如归，简单而快乐，就像他从小就认识她一样。

‘Ivan Petrovitch and I settled in Alexey’s study,’ she said in answer to Stepan Arkadyevitch’s question whether he might smoke, ‘just so as to be able to smoke’—and glancing at Levin, instead of asking whether he would smoke, she pulled closer a tortoise-shell cigar-case and took a cigarette.
“伊万·彼得罗维奇和我在阿列克谢的书房里安顿下来，”她在回答斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇是否可以吸烟的问题时说道，“只是为了能够吸烟”——她看了一眼列文，没有问他是否会吸烟，而是拉开了合上一个龟甲雪茄盒，抽了一支烟。

‘How are you feeling today?’ her brother asked her.
“你今天感觉怎么样？”她哥哥问她。

‘Oh, nothing. Nerves, as usual.’
哦，没什么。像往常一样紧张。

‘Yes, isn’t it extraordinarily fine?’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch, noticing that Levin was scrutinizing the picture.
“是的，这不是非常好吗？”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇注意到列文正在仔细观察那幅画，说道。

‘I have never seen a better portrait.’
“我从未见过更好的肖像。”

‘And extraordinarily like, isn’t it?’ said Vorkuev.
“非常像，不是吗？”沃尔库耶夫说。

Levin looked from the portrait to the original. A peculiar brilliance lighted up Anna’s face when she felt his eyes on her. Levin flushed, and to cover his confusion would have asked whether she had seen Darya Alexandrovna lately; but at that moment Anna spoke. ‘We were just talking, Ivan Petrovitch and I, of Vashtchenkov’s last pictures. Have you seen them?’
莱文从肖像上看向原作。当安娜感觉到他的目光注视着她时，她的脸上绽放出一种奇特的光芒。列文涨红了脸，为了掩饰自己的困惑，他会问她最近是否见过达里娅·亚历山德罗芙娜。但就在这时，安娜开口了。 “我们，伊万·彼得罗维奇和我，正在谈论瓦什琴科夫最后的照片。你见过他们吗？'

‘Yes, I have seen them,’ answered Levin.
“是的，我见过他们，”莱文回答道。

‘But, I beg your pardon, I interrupted you...you were saying?...’
“但是，请原谅，我打断了你……你是说？……”

Levin asked if she had seen Dolly lately.
莱文问她最近是否见过多莉。

‘She was here yesterday. She was very indignant with the high school people on Grisha’s account. The Latin teacher, it seems, had been unfair to him.’
'昨天她在这里。她对格里沙的高中生感到非常愤慨。拉丁语老师似乎对他不公平。

‘Yes, I have seen his pictures. I didn’t care for them very much,’ Levin went back to the subject she had started.
“是的，我看过他的照片。我不太关心他们。”莱文又回到了她开始的话题。

Levin talked now not at all with that purely businesslike attitude to the subject with which he had been talking all the morning. Every word in his conversation with her had a special significance. And talking to her was pleasant; still pleasanter it was to listen to her.
莱文现在完全不再以那种纯粹的公事态度来谈论他整个上午谈论的话题了。他和她谈话的每一句话都具有特殊的意义。和她谈话很愉快；听她说话还是比较愉快的。

Anna talked not merely naturally and cleverly, but cleverly and carelessly, attaching no value to her own ideas and giving great weight to the ideas of the person she was talking to.
安娜说话不仅自然而巧妙，而且巧妙而漫不经心，她不重视自己的想法，而非常重视与她交谈的人的想法。

The conversation turned on the new movement in art, on the new illustrations of the Bible by a French artist. Vorkuev attacked the artist for a realism carried to the point of coarseness.
谈话转向了新的艺术运动，一位法国艺术家为圣经绘制的新插图。沃尔库耶夫攻击这位艺术家的现实主义风格已经达到了粗俗的地步。

Levin said that the French had carried conventionality further than anyone, and that consequently they see a great merit in the return to realism. In the fact of not lying they see poetry.
莱文说，法国人比任何人都更遵循传统，因此他们看到了回归现实主义的巨大优点。事实上，他们不说谎，就看到了诗意。

Never had anything clever said by Levin given him so much pleasure as this remark. Anna’s face lighted up at once, as at once she appreciated the thought. She laughed.
莱文从来没有说过任何聪明的话，比这句话更让他高兴。安娜的脸立刻亮了起来，她立刻意识到了这个想法。她笑了。

‘I laugh,’ she said, ‘as one laughs when one sees a very true portrait. What you said so perfectly hits off French art now, painting and literature too, indeed—Zola, Daudet. But perhaps it is always so, that men form their conceptions from fictitious, conventional types, and then—all the combinaisons made—they are tired of the fictitious figures and begin to invent more natural, true figures.’
“我笑了，”她说，“就像人们看到一幅非常真实的肖像时笑一样。”你所说的如此完美地契合了现在的法国艺术，绘画和文学，确实如此——左拉，都德。但也许情况总是如此，人们从虚构的、传统的类型中形成他们的观念，然后——所有的组合——他们厌倦了虚构的人物，并开始发明更自然、真实的人物。

‘That’s perfectly true,’ said Vorknev.
“这完全正确，”沃克涅夫说。

‘So you’ve been at the club?’ she said to her brother.
“那么你去过俱乐部吗？”她对她哥哥说。

‘Yes, yes, this is a woman!’ Levin thought, forgetting himself and staring persistently at her lovely, mobile face, which at that moment was all at once completely transformed. Levin did not hear what she was talking of as she leaned over to her brother, but he was struck by the change of her expression. Her face—so handsome a moment before in its repose—suddenly wore a look of strange curiosity, anger, and pride. But this lasted only an instant. She dropped her eyelids, as though recollecting something.
“是的，是的，这是一个女人！”莱文心想，忘记了自己，一直盯着她那张可爱的、灵活的脸，在那一刻，她的脸一下子就完全变了。当她向哥哥倾身时，莱文没有听到她在说什么，但她表情的变化让他吃了一惊。她的脸——刚才在休息时还是那么英俊——突然间露出了一种奇怪的好奇、愤怒和骄傲的表情。但这只持续了一瞬间。她垂下眼皮，似乎想起了什么。

‘Oh, well, but that’s of no interest to anyone,’ she said, and she turned to the English girl.
“哦，好吧，但这对任何人来说都没有兴趣，”她说，然后转向英国女孩。

‘Please order the tea in the drawing room,’ she said in English.
“请到客厅点茶，”她用英语说道。

The girl got up and went out.
女孩起身就往外走。

‘Well, how did she get through her examination?’ asked Stepan Arkadyevitch.
“那么，她是怎么通过考试的呢？”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇问道。

‘Splendidly! She’s a very gifted child and a sweet character.’
‘太棒了！她是一个非常有天赋的孩子，性格也很可爱。”

‘It will end in your loving her more than your own.’
“这最终会让你爱她胜过爱你自己。”

‘There a man speaks. In love there’s no more nor less. I love my daughter with one love, and her with another.’
‘有一个人在说话。在爱情中，没有多也没有少。我用一种爱爱我的女儿，用另一种爱爱她。

‘I was just telling Anna Arkadyevna,’ said Vorkuev, ‘that if she were to put a hundredth part of the energy she devotes to this English girl to the public question of the education of Russian children, she would be doing a great and useful work.’
“我只是告诉安娜·阿尔卡季耶夫娜，”沃尔库耶夫说，“如果她能将自己为这个英国女孩投入的精力的百分之一用于解决俄罗斯儿童教育的公共问题，她将做一件伟大而有用的事情。”工作。'

‘Yes, but I can’t help it; I couldn’t do it. Count Alexey Kirillovitch urged me very much’ (as she uttered the words Count Alexey Kirillovitch she glanced with appealing timidity at Levin, and he unconsciously responded with a respectful and reassuring look); ‘he urged me to take up the school in the village. I visited it several times. The children were very nice, but I could not feel drawn to the work. You speak of energy. Energy rests upon love; and come as it will, there’s no forcing it. I took to this child—I could not myself say why.’
“是的，但我无能为力；”我做不到。阿列克谢·基里洛维奇伯爵非常催促我”（当她说出“阿列克谢·基里洛维奇伯爵”这个词时，她用一种迷人的胆怯看了一眼莱文，而他无意识地回应了一个尊重和放心的眼神）； “他催促我去村里的学校上学。我曾多次参观过它。孩子们非常友善，但我对这项工作没有兴趣。你说的是能量。能量依赖于爱；该来的就来，没有强迫的。我喜欢这个孩子——我自己也说不出为什么。

And she glanced again at Levin. And her smile and her glance— all told him that it was to him only she was addressing her words, valuing his good opinion, and at the same time sure beforehand that they understood each other.
她又看了一眼莱文。而她的微笑和目光——都告诉他，她只是对他说这句话，重视他的好意见，同时事先确信他们彼此理解。

‘I quite understand that,’ Levin answered. ‘It’s impossible to give one’s heart to a school or such institutions in general, and I believe that’s just why philanthropic institutions always give such poor results.’
“我很明白，”莱文回答道。 “一般来说，把一个人的心奉献给一所学校或这样的机构是不可能的，我相信这就是为什么慈善机构总是给出如此糟糕的结果的原因。”

She was silent for a while, then she smiled.
她沉默了一会儿，然后笑了。

‘Yes, yes,’ she agreed; ‘I never could. Je n’ai pas le coeur assez large to love a whole asylum of horrid little girls. Cela ne m’a jamais reussi. There are so many women who have made themselves une position sociale in that way. And now more than ever,’ she said with a mournful, confiding expression, ostensibly addressing her brother, but unmistakably intending her words only for Levin, ‘now when I have such need of some occupation, I cannot.’ And suddenly frowning (Levin saw that she was frowning at herself for talking about herself) she changed the subject. ‘I know about you,’ she said to Levin; ‘that you’re not a public-spirited citizen, and I have defended you to the best of my ability.’
“是的，是的，”她同意道。 “我从来都做不到。我爱整个收容所的可怕的小女孩。 Cela ne m'a jamais reussi。有很多女性以这种方式使自己失去了社会地位。现在比以往任何时候都更加，”她带着悲伤、信任的表情说道，表面上是对她的兄弟说的，但毫无疑问她只是想对莱文说这句话，“现在当我需要某种职业时，我却做不到。”然后突然皱起眉头（莱文）看到她因谈论自己而皱着眉头）她改变了话题。 “我了解你，”她对莱文说。 “你不是一个热心公益的公民，而我已尽我所能为你辩护。”

‘How have you defended me?’
“你是如何为我辩护的？”

‘Oh, according to the attacks made on you. But won’t you have some tea?’ She rose and took up a book bound in morocco.
‘哦，根据对你的攻击。但你不想喝点茶吗？”她站起来，拿起一本摩洛哥装订的书。

‘Give it to me, Anna Arkadyevna,’ said Vorkuev, indicating the book. ‘It’s well worth taking up.’
“把它给我，安娜·阿尔卡季耶夫娜，”沃尔库耶夫指着那本书说道。 “这非常值得接受。”

‘Oh, no, it’s all so sketchy.’
“哦，不，这一切都太粗略了。”

‘I told him about it,’ Stepan Arkadyevitch said to his sister, nodding at Levin.
“我把这件事告诉了他，”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇对他妹妹说道，同时向列文点点头。

‘You shouldn’t have. My writing is something after the fashion of those little baskets and carving which Liza Mertsalova used to sell me from the prisons. She had the direction of the prison department in that society,’ she turned to Levin; ‘and they were miracles of patience, the work of those poor wretches.’
‘你不应该这么做。我的写作仿效了丽莎·梅尔萨洛娃（Liza Mertsalova）从监狱里卖给我的那些小篮子和雕刻品的风格。她掌管着那个社会的监狱部门。”她转向莱文。 “它们是耐心的奇迹，是那些可怜虫的杰作。”

And Levin saw a new trait in this woman, who attracted him so extraordinarily. Besides wit, grace, and beauty, she had truth. She had no wish to hide from him all the bitterness of her position. As she said that she sighed, and her face suddenly taking a hard expression, looked as it were turned to stone. With that expression on her face she was more beautiful than ever; but the expression was new; it was utterly unlike that expression, radiant with happiness and creating happiness, which had been caught by the painter in her portrait. Levin looked more than once at the portrait and at her figure, as taking her brother’s arm she walked with him to the high doors and he felt for her a tenderness and pity at which he wondered himself.
莱文在这个女人身上看到了一种新的特质，她对他有着非凡的吸引力。除了智慧、优雅和美丽，她还有真理。她不想向他隐瞒自己处境的所有痛苦。说着，她叹了口气，脸色顿时变得凝重起来，如同石化一般。有了这样的表情，她比以前更加美丽了。但这个表达是新的；这与画家在肖像画中所捕捉到的那种洋溢着幸福、创造着幸福的表情完全不同。列文不止一次地看着这幅肖像和她的身材，当她挽着她哥哥的手臂和他一起走向高高的大门时，他对她感到一种温柔和怜悯，连他自己都感到惊讶。

She asked Levin and Vorkuev to go into the drawing room, while she stayed behind to say a few words to her brother. ‘About her divorce, about Vronsky, and what he’s doing at the club, about me?’ wondered Levin. And he was so keenly interested by the question of what she was saying to Stepan Arkadyevitch, that he scarcely heard what Vorkuev was telling him of the qualities of the story for children Anna Arkadyevna had written.
她请莱文和沃尔库耶夫到客厅去，而她留下来跟她哥哥说了几句话。 “关于她的离婚，关于渥伦斯基，还有他在俱乐部做什么，关于我？”莱文想知道。他对她对斯捷潘·阿尔卡季耶维奇说的话非常感兴趣，以至于他几乎没有听到沃尔库耶夫告诉他安娜·阿尔卡季耶夫娜写的儿童故事的特点。

At tea the same pleasant sort of talk, full of interesting matter, continued. There was not a single instant when a subject for conversation was to seek; on the contrary, it was felt that one had hardly time to say what one had to say, and eagerly held back to hear what the others were saying. And all that was said, not only by her, but by Vorkuev and Stepan Arkadyevitch—all, so it seemed to Levin, gained peculiar significance from her appreciation and her criticism. While he followed this interesting conversation, Levin was all the time admiring her— her beauty, her intelligence, her culture, and at the same time her directness and genuine depth of feeling. He listened and talked, and all the while he was thinking of her inner life, trying to divine her feelings. And though he had judged her so severely hitherto, now by some strange chain of reasoning he was justifying her and was also sorry for her, and afraid that Vronsky did not fully understand her. At eleven o’clock, when Stepan Arkadyevitch got up to go (Vorkuev had left earlier), it seemed to Levin that he had only just come. Regretfully Levin too rose.
喝茶时，同样愉快的谈话继续进行，充满了有趣的话题。没有任何一个时刻需要寻找谈话的主题；相反，人们感觉自己几乎没有时间说出自己要说的话，而急切地忍住不听别人在说什么。不仅是她所说的一切，还有沃尔库耶夫和斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇所说的一切——在列文看来，所有这些都从她的赞赏和批评中获得了特殊的意义。当莱文关注着这场有趣的谈话时，他一直钦佩她——她的美丽、她的智慧、她的文化，同时还有她的直接和真诚的情感深度。他一边听一边说话，同时思考她的内心生活，试图揣测她的感受。尽管迄今为止他对她的评判如此严厉，但现在，通过某种奇怪的推理链，他为她辩护，也为她感到难过，并担心渥伦斯基不能完全理解她。十一点钟，当斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇起身要走时（沃尔库耶夫已经离开了），列文觉得他才刚刚来。遗憾的是，莱文也站了起来。

‘Good-bye,’ she said, holding his hand and glancing into his face with a winning look. ‘I am very glad que la glace est rompue.’
“再见，”她握着他的手，用一种胜利的表情看着他的脸。 “我很高兴 que la Glace est rompue。”

She dropped his hand, and half closed her eyes.
她松开了他的手，半闭上了眼睛。

‘Tell your wife that I love her as before, and that if she cannot pardon me my position, then my wish for her is that she may never pardon it. To pardon it, one must go through what I have gone through, and may God spare her that.’
‘告诉你的妻子，我一如既往地爱她，如果她不能原谅我的立场，那么我对她的愿望就是她永远不会原谅。要原谅她，就必须经历我所经历的事情，愿上帝饶恕她。

‘Certainly, yes, I will tell her...’ Levin said, blushing.
“当然，是的，我会告诉她……”莱文红着脸说道。

Chapter 11
第11章

‘What a marvelous, sweet and unhappy woman!’ he was thinking, as he stepped out into the frosty air with Stepan Arkadyevitch.
“多么奇妙、可爱却不幸的女人啊！”当他和斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇一起走进寒冷的空气时，他心里这样想。

‘Well, didn’t I tell you?’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch, seeing that Levin had been completely won over.
“哦，我不是告诉过你了吗？”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇说道，他看到列文已经完全被说服了。

‘Yes,’ said Levin dreamily, ‘an extraordinary woman! It’s not her cleverness, but she has such wonderful depth of feeling. I’m awfully sorry for her!’
“是的，”列文若有所思地说，“一位非凡的女人！这不是她的聪明，而是她的感情是如此美妙。我对她感到非常抱歉！

‘Now, please God, everything will soon be settled. Well, well, don’t be hard on people in future,’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch, opening the carriage door. ‘Good-bye; we don’t go the same way.’
‘现在，上帝保佑，一切都会很快解决。好吧，好吧，以后别对人太苛刻了。”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇一边说，一边打开车厢门。 '再见;我们不走同一条路。

Still thinking of Anna, of everything, even the simplest phrase in their conversation with her, and recalling the minutest changes in her expression, entering more and more into her position, and feeling sympathy for her, Levin reached home.
莱文仍然想着安娜，想着一切，甚至是他们与她谈话中最简单的一句话，回忆起她表情上最微小的变化，越来越进入她的位置，并对她感到同情，莱文回到了家。

At home Kouzma told Levin that Katerina Alexandrovna was quite well, and that her sisters had not long been gone, and he handed him two letters. Levin read them at once in the hall, that he might not over look them later. One was from Sokolov, his bailiff. Sokolov wrote that the corn could not be sold, that it was fetching only five and a half roubles, and that more than that could not be got for it. The other letter was from his sister. She scolded him for her business being still unsettled.
回到家，库兹马告诉列文，卡捷琳娜·亚历山德罗夫娜身体很好，她的姐妹们也不久后离开，并递给他两封信。莱文在大厅里立刻读了一遍，以免以后再看漏掉。其中一封来自他的执达官索科洛夫。索科洛夫写道，玉米卖不出去，只能卖五卢布半，而且再也卖不出去。另一封信是他姐姐写来的。她责骂他，她的事还没有解决。

‘Well, we must sell it at five and a half if we can’t get more,’ Levin decided the first question, which had always before seemed such a weighty one, with extraordinary facility on the spot. ‘It’s extraordinary how all one’s time is taken up here,’ he thought, considering the second letter. He felt himself to blame for not having got done what his sister had asked him to do for her. ‘Today, again, I’ve not been to the court, but today I’ve certainly not had time.’ And resolving that he would not fail to do it next day, he went up to his wife. As he went in, Levin rapidly ran through mentally the day he had spent. All the events of the day were conversations, conversations he had heard and taken part in. All the conversations were upon subjects which, if he had been alone at home, he would never have taken up, but here they were very interesting. And all these conversations were right enough, only in two places there was something not quite right. One was what he had said about the carp, the other was something not ‘quite the thing’ in the tender sympathy he was feeling for Anna.
“好吧，如果我们买不到更多，我们就必须以五块半的价格卖掉它，”莱文决定了第一个问题，这个问题以前一直显得如此沉重，当场就表现得非常熟练。 “一个人的时间都花在这里，真是太不可思议了，”他一边想着第二封信，一边想。他觉得自己应该责怪自己没有完成姐姐要求他为她做的事情。 “今天，我又没有去法庭，但今天我当然没有时间。”他决定第二天一定要去，然后走到妻子身边。进去后，莱文在心里飞快地回忆了一下自己度过的这一天。当天发生的所有事情都是谈话，都是他听到和参加过的谈话。所有谈话的主题都是如果他一个人在家，他永远不会谈论的话题，但在这里，它们非常有趣。所有这些谈话都还不错，只是有两个地方不太对劲。一是他所说的关于鲤鱼的事，二是他对安娜的温柔同情“不太对劲”。

Levin found his wife low-spirited and dull. The dinner of the three sisters had gone off very well, but then they had waited and waited for him, all of them had felt dull, the sisters had departed, and she had been left alone.
莱文发现他的妻子情绪低落、迟钝。三姐妹的晚餐进行得很顺利，可等他等了又等，大家都觉得索然无味，姐妹俩都走了，只剩下她一个人。

‘Well, and what have you been doing?’ she asked him, looking straight into his eyes, which shone with rather a suspicious brightness. But that she might not prevent his telling her everything, she concealed her close scrutiny of him, and with an approving smile listened to his account of how he had spent the evening.
“那么，你最近在做什么呢？”她直视着他的眼睛，问道，他的眼睛里闪烁着令人怀疑的光芒。但为了不阻止他告诉她一切，她隐藏了对他的密切关注，并带着赞许的微笑听他讲述今晚的经历。

‘Well, I’m very glad I met Vronsky. I felt quite at ease and natural with him. You understand, I shall try not to see him, but I’m glad that this awkwardness is all over,’ he said, and remembering that by way of trying not to see him, he had immediately gone to call on Anna, he blushed. ‘We talk about the peasants drinking; I don’t know which drinks most, the peasantry or our own class; the peasants do on holidays, but...’
“嗯，我很高兴见到渥伦斯基。和他在一起我感觉很自在、很自然。你明白，我会尽量不去见他，但我很高兴这种尴尬已经结束了，”他说，想起为了不去见他，他立即去拜访了安娜，他脸红了。 “我们谈论农民喝酒；我不知道农民和我们阶级谁喝得最多；农民们在假期里也会这样做，但是……”

But Kitty took not the slightest interest in discussing the drinking habits of the peasants. She saw that he blushed, and she wanted to know why.
但基蒂对讨论农民的饮酒习惯没有丝毫兴趣。她看到他脸红了，她想知道为什么。

‘Well, and then where did you go?’
“那么，你去哪儿了？”

‘Stiva urged me awfully to go and see Anna Arkadyevna.’
“斯蒂瓦极力催促我去见安娜·阿尔卡季耶夫娜。”

And as he said this, Levin blushed even more, and his doubts as to whether he had done right in going to see Anna were settled once for all. He knew now that he ought not to have done so.
说到这里，莱文的脸更红了，他对自己去见安娜是否正确的怀疑彻底解决了。他现在知道他不应该这样做。

Kitty’s eyes opened in a curious way and gleamed at Anna’s name, but controlling herself with an effort, she concealed her emotion and deceived him.
基蒂好奇地睁开眼睛，看到安娜的名字，却闪烁着光芒，但她努力控制着自己，掩饰了自己的情绪，欺骗了他。

‘Oh!’ was all she said.
“哦！”她只说了一句话。

‘I’m sure you won’t be angry at my going. Stiva begged me to, and Dolly wished it,’ Levin went on.
“我相信你不会因为我的离开而生气。斯蒂瓦恳求我这么做，多莉也希望如此，”莱文继续说道。

‘Oh, no!’ she said, but he saw in her eyes a constraint that boded him no good.
“哦，不！”她说，但他在她眼中看到了一种对他不利的束缚。

‘She is a very sweet, very, very unhappy, good woman,’ he said, telling her about Anna, her occupations, and what she had told him to say to her.
“她是一个非常可爱、非常、非常不幸的好女人，”他说，告诉她关于安娜的事、她的职业，以及她告诉他要对她说的话。

‘Yes, of course, she is very much to be pitied,’ said Kitty, when he had finished. ‘Whom was your letter from?’
“是的，当然，她非常可怜。”等他说完后，基蒂说道。 “你的信是谁写的？”

He told her, and believing in her calm tone, he went to change his coat.
他告诉了她，并相信她平静的语气，他去换了外套。

Coming back, he found Kitty in the same easy chair. When he went up to her, she glanced at him and broke into sobs.
回来后，他发现凯蒂坐在同一张安乐椅上。当他走到她身边时，她看了他一眼，突然抽泣起来。

‘What? what is it?’ he asked, knowing beforehand what.
'什么？它是什么？”他问道，事先就知道是什么。

‘You’re in love with that hateful woman; she has bewitched you! I saw it in your eyes. Yes, yes! What can it all lead to? You were drinking at the club, drinking and gambling, and then you went...to her of all people! No, we must go away.... I shall go away tomorrow.’
‘你爱上了那个可恶的女人；她已经迷住了你！我从你的眼里看到了。是的是的！这一切会导致什么？你在俱乐部喝酒、喝酒、赌博，然后你就去了……所有人中的她！不，我们必须离开……我明天就离开。

It was a long while before Levin could soothe his wife. At last he succeeded in calming her, only by confessing that a feeling of pity, in conjunction with the wine he had drunk, had been too much for him, that he had succumbed to Anna’s artful influence, and that he would avoid her. One thing he did with more sincerity confess to was that living so long in Moscow, a life of nothing but conversation, eating and drinking, he was degenerating. They talked till three o’clock in the morning. Only at three o’clock were they sufficiently reconciled to be able to go to sleep.
过了很长一段时间，莱文才安抚他的妻子。最后，他成功地让她平静下来，只是承认，怜悯之情加上他喝下的酒，对他来说太过分了，他已经屈服于安娜巧妙的影响，他会避开她。他更真诚地承认的一件事是，在莫斯科生活了这么久，除了聊天、吃喝之外什么都没有的生活，他正在堕落。他们一直聊到凌晨三点。直到三点钟，他们才完全安定下来，可以去睡觉了。

Chapter 12
第12章

After taking leave of her guests, Anna did not sit down, but began walking up and down the room. She had unconsciously the whole evening done her utmost to arouse in Levin a feeling of love—as of late she had fallen into doing with all young men— and she knew she had attained her aim, as far as was possible in one evening, with a married and conscientious man. She liked him indeed extremely, and, in spite of the striking difference, from the masculine point of view, between Vronsky and Levin, as a woman she saw something they had in common, which had made Kitty able to love both. Yet as soon as he was out of the room, she ceased to think of him.
与客人告别后，安娜并没有坐下，而是开始在房间里走来走去。整个晚上，她不知不觉地尽了最大的努力来激起莱文的一种爱的感觉——最近她已经爱上了所有的年轻人——她知道她已经达到了她的目的，尽可能在一个晚上，与一个已婚且尽责的男人。她确实非常喜欢他，尽管从男性的角度来看，渥伦斯基和莱文之间存在着显着的差异，但作为一个女人，她看到了他们的一些共同点，这使得基蒂能够爱两人。但他一走出房间，她就不再想他了。

One thought, and one only, pursued her in different forms, and refused to be shaken off. ‘If I have so much effect on others, on this man, who loves his home and his wife, why is it he is so cold to me?...not cold exactly, he loves me, I know that! But something new is drawing us apart now. Why wasn’t he here all the evening? He told Stiva to say he could not leave Yashvin, and must watch over his play. Is Yashvin a child? But supposing it’s true. He never tells a lie. But there’s something else in it if it’s true. He is glad of an opportunity of showing me that he has other duties; I know that, I submit to that. But why prove that to me? He wants to show me that his love for me is not to interfere with his freedom. But I need no proofs, I need love. He ought to understand all the bitterness of this life for me here in Moscow. Is this life? I am not living, but waiting for an event, which is continually put off and put off. No answer again! And Stiva says he cannot go to Alexey Alexandrovitch. And I can’t write again. I can do nothing, can begin nothing, can alter nothing; I hold myself in, I wait, inventing amusements for myself—the English family, writing, reading—but it’s all nothing but a sham, it’s all the same as morphine. He ought to feel for me,’ she said, feeling tears of self-pity coming into her eyes.
一种念头，而且只有一种念头，以不同的形式追赶着她，不肯摆脱。 “如果我对别人、对这个爱他的家和他的妻子的男人有这么大的影响，为什么他对我这么冷淡？……不完全冷淡，他爱我，我知道！”但现在有一些新的事情让我们分开了。他为什么整个晚上都不在这里？他告诉斯蒂瓦他不能离开亚什文，并且必须注意他的比赛。亚什文是个孩子吗？但假设这是真的。他从不说谎。但如果这是真的的话，其中还有别的东西。他很高兴有机会向我表明他还有其他职责。我知道这一点，我服从这一点。但为什么要向我证明这一点呢？他想向我表明，他对我的爱并不是为了干涉他的自由。但我不需要证据，我需要爱。他应该理解我在莫斯科生活的所有辛酸。这就是生活吗？我不是在生活，而是在等待一件事情，而这件事却不断地一拖再拖。又没有答案！斯蒂瓦说他不能去找阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇。而且我不能再写了。我什么也做不了，什么也不能开始，什么也改变不了；我克制住自己，等待着，为自己发明一些娱乐——英国家庭、写作、阅读——但这一切都只是一个骗局，和吗啡一样。他应该同情我，”她说，眼里涌出自怜的泪水。

She heard Vronsky’s abrupt ring and hurriedly dried her tears— not only dried her tears, but sat down by a lamp and opened a book, affecting composure. She wanted to show him that she was displeased that he had not come home as he had promised— displeased only, and not on any account to let him see her distress, and least of all, her self-pity. She might pity herself, but he must not pity her. She did not want strife, she blamed him for wanting to quarrel, but unconsciously put herself into an attitude of antagonism.
她听到渥伦斯基突然的铃声，赶紧擦干眼泪——不仅擦干了眼泪，还坐在灯前，打开了一本书，故作镇定。她想向他表明，她对他没有按照承诺回家感到不高兴——只是不高兴，决不让他看到她的痛苦，尤其是她的自怜。她可以可怜自己，但他绝不能可怜她。她不想争吵，怪他想吵架，却又不自觉地让自己陷入了一种对抗的态度。

‘Well, you’ve not been dull?’ he said, eagerly and good-humoredly, going up to her. ‘What a terrible passion it is—gambling!’
“嗯，你并不迟钝吧？”他走到她面前，热切而幽默地说。 “赌博是多么可怕的爱好啊！”

‘No, I’ve not been dull; I’ve learned long ago not to be dull. Stiva has been here and Levin.’
“不，我并不迟钝；我很久以前就学会了不要沉闷。斯蒂瓦和莱文都在这里。

‘Yes, they meant to come and see you. Well, how did you like Levin?’ he said, sitting down beside her.
“是的，他们本来是想来看你的。嗯，你觉得莱文怎么样？”他一边说，一边在她旁边坐下。

‘Very much. They have not long been gone. What was Yashvin doing?’
'非常。他们离开不久。亚什文在做什么？

‘He was winning—seventeen thousand. I got him away. He had really started home, but he went back again, and now he’s losing.’
“他赢了——一万七千。”我把他带走了。他真的开始回家了，但他又回去了，现在他输了。”

‘Then what did you stay for?’ she asked, suddenly lifting her eyes to him. The expression of her face was cold and ungracious. ‘You told Stiva you were staying on to get Yashvin away. And you have left him there.’
“那你留下来做什么？”她突然抬起眼睛看着他。她脸上的表情冷酷无情。 “你告诉斯蒂瓦你要留下来带走亚什文。而你却把他留在那里了。

The same expression of cold readiness for the conflict appeared on his face too.
他的脸上也出现了同样对冲突做好准备的表情。

‘In the first place, I did not ask him to give you any message; and secondly, I never tell lies. But what’s the chief point, I wanted to stay, and I stayed,’ he said, frowning. ‘Anna, what is it for, why will you?’ he said after a moment’s silence, bending over towards her, and he opened his hand, hoping she would lay hers in it.
“首先，我并没有要求他给你任何消息；其次，我从不说谎。但最重要的是，我想留下来，而且我留下来了，”他皱着眉头说道。 “安娜，这是为什么？你为什么要这么做？”沉默了一会儿后，他向她弯下身子说道，然后张开手，希望她能把手放在手上。

She was glad of this appeal for tenderness. But some strange force of evil would not let her give herself up to her feelings, as though the rules of warfare would not permit her to surrender.
她很高兴这种对温柔的诉求。但某种奇怪的邪恶力量不允许她屈服于自己的感情，就好像战争规则不允许她投降一样。

‘Of course you wanted to stay, and you stayed. You do everything you want to. But what do you tell me that for? With what object?’ she said, getting more and more excited. ‘Does anyone contest your rights? But you want to be right, and you’re welcome to be right.’
“你当然想留下来，你也留下来了。你做你想做的一切。但你告诉我这些是为了什么？什么目的？”她说，变得越来越兴奋。 ‘有人质疑你的权利吗？但你希望自己是对的，我们也欢迎你是对的。”

His hand closed, he turned away, and his face wore a still more obstinate expression.
他的手握紧，转过身去，脸上的表情更加执拗。

‘For you it’s a matter of obstinacy,’ she said, watching him intently and suddenly finding the right word for that expression that irritated her, ‘simply obstinacy. For you it’s a question of whether you keep the upper hand of me, while for me....’ Again she felt sorry for herself, and she almost burst into tears. ‘If you knew what it is for me! When I feel as I do now that you are hostile, yes, hostile to me, if you knew what this means for me! If you knew how I feel on the brink of calamity at this instant, how afraid I am of myself!’ And she turned away, hiding her sobs.
“对你来说，这是一个固执的问题，”她说，全神贯注地看着他，突然找到了合适的词来形容那个让她恼火的表情，“就是固执。”对你来说，是你能否占据上风的问题，而对我来说……”她又为自己感到难过，几乎要哭出来了。 ‘如果你知道这对我来说意味着什么就好了！当我现在感觉你对我怀有敌意时，是的，对我怀有敌意，如果你知道这对我意味着什么！如果你知道我此刻濒临灾难的感受，我是多么害怕自己！”说完她转过身去，掩饰自己的抽泣。

‘But what are you talking about?’ he said, horrified at her expression of despair, and again bending over her, he took her hand and kissed it. ‘What is it for? Do I seek amusements outside our home? Don’t I avoid the society of women?’
“但是你在说什么？”他说，对她绝望的表情感到震惊，然后再次弯下腰，握住她的手并吻了吻它。 ‘这是做什么用的？我是否在家里寻找娱乐？难道我不回避女人的社会吗？

‘Well, yes! If that were all!’ she said.
'嗯，是！如果仅此而已！”她说。

‘Come, tell me what I ought to do to give you peace of mind? I am ready to do anything to make you happy,’ he said, touched by her expression of despair; ‘what wouldn’t I do to save you from distress of any sort, as now, Anna!’ he said.
‘来吧，告诉我该怎么做才能让你安心？我已经准备好做任何事来让你开心，”他说，被她绝望的表情感动了。 “为了让你摆脱任何形式的痛苦，我会做什么，就像现在一样，安娜！”他说。

‘It’s nothing, nothing!’ she said. ‘I don’t know myself whether it’s the solitary life, my nerves.... Come, don’t let us talk of it. What about the race? You haven’t told me!’ she inquired, trying to conceal her triumph at the victory, which had anyway been on her side.
“没什么，没什么！”她说。 ‘我自己也不知道这是否是孤独生活的原因，我的神经……得了，别让我们谈论这个了。那比赛呢？你还没告诉我！”她问道，试图掩饰自己对胜利的喜悦，无论如何，胜利是站在她这一边的。

He asked for supper, and began telling her about the races; but in his tone, in his eyes, which became more and more cold, she saw that he did not forgive her for her victory, that the feeling of obstinacy with which she had been struggling had asserted itself again in him. He was colder to her than before, as though he were regretting his surrender. And she, remembering the words that had given her the victory, ‘how I feel on the brink of calamity, how afraid I am of myself,’ saw that this weapon was a dangerous one, and that it could not be used a second time. And she felt that beside the love that bound them together there had grown up between them some evil spirit of strife, which she could not exorcise from his, and still less from her own heart.
他要了晚饭，并开始向她讲述比赛的情况。但从他的语气中，从他变得越来越冷酷的眼神中，她看出他并没有原谅她的胜利，她一直在挣扎的那种固执感又在他身上显现了出来。他对她的态度比之前更加冷漠，似乎在后悔自己的投降。而她，想起那句给她带来胜利的话语，“我在灾难的边缘感觉如何，我对自己感到多么害怕”，她意识到这把武器是危险的，而且不能再使用第二次。 。她觉得，除了将他们联系在一起的爱情之外，他们之间还滋长了某种邪恶的斗争精神，她无法将其从他身上驱除，更不用说从她自己的心里驱除了。

Chapter 13
第13章

There are no conditions to which a man cannot become used, especially if he sees that all around him are living in the same way. Levin could not have believed three months before that he could have gone quietly to sleep in the condition in which he was that day, that leading an aimless, irrational life, living too beyond his means, after drinking to excess (he could not call what happened at the club anything else), forming inappropriately friendly relations with a man with whom his wife had once been in love, and a still more inappropriate call upon a woman who could only be called a lost woman, after being fascinated by that woman and causing his wife distress—he could still go quietly to sleep. But under the influence of fatigue, a sleepless night, and the wine he had drunk, his sleep was sound and untroubled.
一个人没有什么条件是不能适应的，尤其是当他看到周围的人都以同样的方式生活时。三个月前，莱文无法相信，在他那天的状态下，他能安静地入睡，过着漫无目的、非理性的生活，生活入不敷出，在酗酒之后（他无法称之为什么）在俱乐部里发生过任何其他事情），与一个他的妻子曾经相爱的男人建立了不适当的友好关系，以及在被一个只能被称为迷失的女人的女人迷住之后，对那个女人进行了更不适当的拜访，并且让他的妻子很苦恼——他还能安静地睡觉。但在疲劳、一夜无眠和喝下的酒的影响下，他睡得安稳。

At five o’clock the creak of a door opening waked him. He jumped up and looked round. Kitty was not in bed beside him. But there was a light moving behind the screen, and he heard her steps.
五点钟，一阵开门的吱吱声把他吵醒了。他跳了起来，环顾四周。基蒂不在他身边的床上。但屏幕后面有一道光在移动，他听到了她的脚步声。

‘What is it?...what is it?’ he said, half-asleep. ‘Kitty! What is it?’
“那是什么？……那是什么？”他半睡半醒地说道。 '猫咪！它是什么？'

‘Nothing,’ she said, coming from behind the screen with a candle in her hand. ‘I felt unwell,’ she said, smiling a particularly sweet and meaning smile.
“没什么，”她手里拿着蜡烛从屏风后面走出来说道。 “我感觉不舒服，”她说道，笑容特别甜美而意味深长。

‘What? has it begun?’ he said in terror. ‘We ought to send...’ and hurriedly he reached after his clothes.
'什么？开始了吗？”他惊恐地说。 “我们应该派人……”他赶紧伸手去拿衣服。

‘No, no,’ she said, smiling and holding his hand. ‘It’s sure to be nothing. I was rather unwell, only a little. It’s all over now.’
“不，不，”她微笑着握着他的手说道。 ‘肯定没什么事。我身体不太舒服，只是一点点。现在一切都结束了。

And getting into bed, she blew out the candle, lay down and was still. Though he thought her stillness suspicious, as though she were holding her breath, and still more suspicious the expression of peculiar tenderness and excitement with which, as she came from behind the screen, she said ‘nothing,’ he was so sleepy that he fell asleep at once. Only later he remembered the stillness of her breathing, and understood all that must have been passing in her sweet, precious heart while she lay beside him, not stirring, in anticipation of the greatest event in a woman’s life. At seven o’clock he was waked by the touch of her hand on his shoulder, and a gentle whisper. She seemed struggling between regret at waking him, and the desire to talk to him.
她上了床，吹灭了蜡烛，躺了下来，一动不动。虽然他觉得她的静止很可疑，好像她屏住了呼吸，更可疑的是，当她从屏风后面走出来时，她说“什么也没说”时，她那特有的温柔和兴奋的表情，他太困了，以至于他摔倒了。立刻就睡着了。直到后来，他才想起她平静的呼吸，明白了当她躺在他身边，一动不动，等待着一个女人一生中最伟大的事件时，她甜蜜而珍贵的心里一定正在经历着一切。七点钟，他被她的手放在他肩膀上的触感和轻柔的耳语吵醒了。她似乎在后悔叫醒他和想和他说话之间挣扎。

‘Kostya, don’t be frightened. It’s all right. But I fancy.... We ought to send for Lizaveta Petrovna.’
‘克斯特亚，别害怕。没关系。但我想……我们应该派人去找莉扎韦塔·彼得罗芙娜。”

The candle was lighted again. She was sitting up in bed, holding some knitting, which she had been busy upon during the last few days.
蜡烛又被点燃了。她坐在床上，手里拿着一些针织品，这是她这几天一直在忙的事情。

‘Please, don’t be frightened, it’s all right. I’m not a bit afraid,’ she said, seeing his scared face, and she pressed his hand to her bosom and then to her lips.
「请不要害怕，没关系的。」我一点儿也不害怕，”她看着他惊恐的脸说道，然后把他的手按在自己的怀里，然后按到自己的嘴唇上。

He hurriedly jumped up, hardly awake, and kept his eyes fixed on her, as he put on his dressing gown; then he stopped, still looking at her. He had to go, but he could not tear himself from her eyes. He thought he loved her face, knew her expression, her eyes, but never had he seen it like this. How hateful and horrible he seemed to himself, thinking of the distress he had caused her yesterday. Her flushed face, fringed with soft curling hair under her night cap, was radiant with joy and courage.
他连忙跳起来，几乎没睡醒，眼睛一直盯着她，穿上睡衣；然后他停了下来，仍然看着她。他必须走，但他无法将自己从她的目光中移开。他以为他爱她的脸，了解她的表情，她的眼睛，但他从来没有见过这样的。想到昨天他给她带来的痛苦，他对自己来说是多么可恨和可怕。她的脸涨得通红，睡帽下留着柔软的卷发，脸上洋溢着喜悦和勇气。

Though there was so little that was complex or artificial in Kitty’s character in general, Levin was struck by what was revealed now, when suddenly all disguises were thrown off and the very kernel of her soul shone in her eyes. And in this simplicity and nakedness of her soul, she, the very woman he loved in her, was more manifest than ever. She looked at him, smiling; but all at once her brows twitched, she threw up her head, and going quickly up to him, clutched his hand and pressed close up to him, breathing her hot breath upon him. She was in pain and was, as it were, complaining to him of her suffering. And for the first minute, from habit, it seemed to him that he was to blame. But in her eyes there was a tenderness that told him that she was far from reproaching him, that she loved him for her sufferings. ‘If not I, who is to blame for it?’ he thought unconsciously, seeking someone responsible for this suffering for him to punish; but there was no one responsible. She was suffering, complaining, and triumphing in her sufferings, and rejoicing in them, and loving them. He saw that something sublime was being accomplished in her soul, but what? He could not make it out. It was beyond his understanding.
虽然基蒂的性格总体上没有什么复杂或做作的地方，但莱文对现在所揭露的一切感到震惊，突然间所有的伪装都被抛弃了，她灵魂的核心在她的眼睛里闪闪发光。在她灵魂的单纯和赤裸中，她，他所爱的女人，比以往任何时候都更加明显。她微笑着看着他；但突然她的眉头抽动了一下，抬起头，快步走到他面前，握住他的手，紧紧贴在他身上，将热气喷在他身上。她很痛苦，似乎在向他抱怨她的痛苦。从第一分钟开始，出于习惯，他觉得自己应该受到责备。但她眼里的温柔告诉他，她绝非责备他，而是因为他的痛苦而爱他。 “如果不是我，那该怪谁呢？”他不自觉地想，寻找一个对他造成这种痛苦负责的人来惩罚他；但没有人对此负责。她在苦难中受苦，在抱怨，在苦难中得胜，在苦难中喜乐，在苦难中爱。他看到她的灵魂中正在完成一些崇高的事情，但是什么？他听不懂。这超出了他的理解范围。

‘I have sent to mamma. You go quickly to fetch Lizaveta Petrovna ...Kostya!... Nothing, it’s over.’
‘我已经寄给妈妈了。你快点去找莉扎维塔·彼得罗芙娜……克斯特亚！……没什么，一切都结束了。”

She moved away from him and rang the bell.
她从他身边走开，按响了门铃。

‘Well, go now; Pasha’s coming. I am all right.’
‘好吧，现在就走吧；帕夏来了。我没事。

And Levin saw with astonishment that she had taken up the knitting she had brought in in the night and begun working at it again.
莱文惊讶地发现，她又拿起了晚上带来的针织品，又开始做起来了。

As Levin was going out of one door, he heard the maid-servant come in at the other. He stood at the door and heard Kitty giving exact directions to the maid, and beginning to help her move the bedstead.
列文刚要走出一扇门，就听见女仆从另一扇门进来了。他站在门口，听到凯蒂对女仆进行了明确的指示，并开始帮她搬床架。

He dressed, and while they were putting in his horses, as a hired sledge was not to be seen yet, he ran again up to the bedroom, not on tiptoe, it seemed to him, but on wings. Two maid-servants were carefully moving something in the bedroom.
他穿好衣服，当他们把马放进去的时候，因为还没有看到租来的雪橇，他又跑进卧室，在他看来，不是踮起脚尖，而是展翅飞翔。两个丫鬟正在卧室里小心翼翼地搬运着什么东西。

Kitty was walking about knitting rapidly and giving directions.
基蒂正在快速地走来走去，一边编织一边指路。

‘I’m going for the doctor. They have sent for Lizaveta Petrovna, but I’ll go on there too. Isn’t there anything wanted? Yes, shall I go to Dolly’s?’
‘我去找医生。他们已经派人去请莉扎维塔·彼得罗芙娜了，但我也要去那儿。难道没有什么想要的吗？是的，我可以去多莉家吗？

She looked at him, obviously not hearing what he was saying.
她看着他，显然没有听清他在说什么。

‘Yes, yes. Do go,’ she said quickly, frowning and waving her hand to him.
'是的是的。走吧，”她很快说道，皱着眉头向他挥手。

He had just gone into the drawing room, when suddenly a plaintive moan sounded from the bedroom, smothered instantly. He stood still, and for a long while he could not understand.
他刚走进客厅，卧室里突然传来一阵哀怨的呻吟声，瞬间就窒息了。他站在原地，半晌想不明白。

‘Yes, that is she,’ he said to himself, and clutching at his head he ran downstairs.
“是的，就是她。”他自言自语道，然后捂着头跑下楼。

‘Lord have mercy on us! pardon us! aid us!’ he repeated the words that for some reason came suddenly to his lips. And he, an unbeliever, repeated these words not with his lips only. At that instant he knew that all his doubts, even the impossibility of believing with his reason, of which he was aware in himself, did not in the least hinder his turning to God. All of that now floated out of his soul like dust. To whom was he to turn if not to Him in whose hands he felt himself, his soul, and his love?
‘愿主怜悯我们！请原谅我们！救救我们！”他重复了不知为何突然出现在他嘴边的话。而他，一个不信的人，不只是用嘴唇重复这些话。在那一刻，他知道他所有的疑虑，甚至是他自己意识到的不可能用理性去相信，都丝毫不妨碍他转向上帝。这一切现在都如尘埃一样从他的灵魂中飘散了。如果不是上帝，他能在谁的手中感受到自己、他的灵魂和他的爱呢？

The horse was not yet ready, but feeling a peculiar concentration of his physical forces and his intellect on what he had to do, he started off on foot without waiting for the horse, and told Kouzma to overtake him.
马还没有准备好，但他感到自己的体力和智力特别集中在他必须做的事情上，他没有等马就步行出发，并告诉库兹马追上他。

At the corner he met a night cabman driving hurriedly. In the little sledge, wrapped in a velvet cloak, sat Lizaveta Petrovna with a kerchief round her head. ‘Thank God! thank God!’ he said, overjoyed to recognize her little fair face which wore a peculiarly serious, even stern expression. Telling the driver not to stop, he ran along beside her.
在拐角处，他遇到了一个匆匆赶路的夜间出租车司机。小雪橇上坐着丽莎维塔·彼得罗夫娜，身上裹着一件天鹅绒斗篷，头上围着头巾。 '感谢上帝！感谢上帝！”他说，欣喜若狂地认出了她那张白皙的小脸，脸上带着一种特别严肃、甚至严厉的表情。司机让司机不要停车，他就跟在她身边跑了过去。

‘For two hours, then? Not more?’ she inquired. ‘You should let Pyotr Dmitrievitch know, but don’t hurry him. And get some opium at the chemist’s.’
“那么两个小时？不再多了吗？”她问道。 “你应该让彼得·德米特里耶维奇知道，但别催他。去药店买点鸦片。”

‘So you think that it may go on well? Lord have mercy on us and help us!’ Levin said, seeing his own horse driving out of the gate. Jumping into the sledge beside Kouzma, he told him to drive to the doctor’s.
‘那么你认为事情会顺利进行吗？愿上帝怜悯我们，帮助我们！”莱文看着自己的马驶出大门，说道。他跳上库兹马旁边的雪橇，让他开车去看医生。

Chapter 14
第14章

The doctor was not yet up, and the footman said that ‘he had been up late, and had given orders not to be waked, but would get up soon.’ The footman was cleaning the lamp-chimneys, and seemed very busy about them. This concentration of the footman upon his lamps, and his indifference to what was passing in Levin, at first astounded him, but immediately on considering the question he realized that no one knew or was bound to know his feelings, and that it was all the more necessary to act calmly, sensibly, and resolutely to get through this wall of indifference and attain his aim.
医生还没有起床，男仆说：“他起晚了，吩咐不要叫醒，不过很快就会起床。”男仆正在清理灯罩，看上去很忙。 。男仆对灯的全神贯注，以及对莱文正在发生的事情的漠不关心，起初让他感到惊讶，但在考虑这个问题时，他立即意识到没有人知道或必然知道他的感受，而这一切都是他的感受。更需要冷静、明智、坚决地行动，才能冲破这道冷漠之墙，达到目的。

‘Don’t be in a hurry or let anything slip,’ Levin said to himself, feeling a greater and greater flow of physical energy and attention to all that lay before him to do.
“别着急，也别让任何事情溜走。”莱文对自己说，他感觉自己的体力越来越大，注意力也越来越集中到摆在他面前要做的事情上。

Having ascertained that the doctor was not getting up, Levin considered various plans, and decided on the following one: that Kouzma should go for another doctor, while he himself should go to the chemist’s for opium, and if when he came back the doctor had not yet begun to get up, he would either by tipping the footman, or by force, wake the doctor at all hazards.
确定医生没有起床后，莱文考虑了各种计划，最后决定如下：库兹马应该去找另一位医生，而他自己应该去药店买鸦片，如果他回来时医生已经还没开始起身，他就会不顾一切地给男仆小费，或者用武力叫醒医生。

At the chemist’s the lank shopman sealed up a packet of powders for a coachman who stood waiting, and refused him opium with the same callousness with which the doctor’s footman had cleaned his lamp chimneys. Trying not to get flurried or out of temper, Levin mentioned the names of the doctor and midwife, and explaining what the opium was needed for, tried to persuade him. The assistant inquired in German whether he should give it, and receiving an affirmative reply from behind the partition, he took out a bottle and a funnel, deliberately poured the opium from a bigger bottle into a little one, stuck on a label, sealed it up, in spite of Levin’s request that he would not do so, and was about to wrap it up too. This was more than Levin could stand; he took the bottle firmly out of his hands, and ran to the big glass doors. The doctor was not even now getting up, and the footman, busy now in putting down the rugs, refused to wake him. Levin deliberately took out a ten rouble note, and, careful to speak slowly, though losing no time over the business, he handed him the note, and explained that Pyotr Dmitrievitch (what a great and important personage he seemed to Levin now, this Pyotr Dmitrievitch, who had been of so little consequence in his eyes before!) had promised to come at any time; that he would certainly not be angry! and that he must therefore wake him at once.
在药店里，瘦长的店主给站着等车的车夫封了一包药粉，并拒绝给他鸦片，就像医生的仆人清洁灯罩时一样冷酷无情。莱文尽量不慌张或发脾气，提到了医生和助产士的名字，并解释了鸦片的用途，试图说服他。助理用德语询问要不要给，得到隔板后面肯定的答复，他拿出一个瓶子和一个漏斗，故意把大瓶子里的鸦片倒进小瓶子里，贴上标签，密封起来。尽管莱文要求他不要这样做，但他还是站了起来，并且也准备结束这一切。这让莱文无法忍受。他用力地从手中夺过瓶子，跑向大玻璃门。医生现在还没有起床，男仆正忙着放下地毯，拒绝叫醒他。列文故意拿出一张十卢布的钞票，小心翼翼地慢慢地说，虽然不耽误时间，但他把钞票递给了他，并解释说，彼得·德米特里耶维奇（现在对列文来说，他是一个多么伟大和重要的人物，这个彼得·德米特里耶维奇）德米特里耶维奇（以前在他眼中是无足轻重的！）答应随时来。那他肯定不会生气！因此他必须立即叫醒他。

The footman agreed, and went upstairs, taking Levin into the waiting room.
男仆同意了，然后上楼，带着莱文走进候诊室。

Levin could hear through the door the doctor coughing, moving about, washing, and saying something. Three minutes passed; it seemed to Levin that more than an hour had gone by. He could not wait any longer.
莱文隔着门都能听到医生咳嗽、走动、洗澡和说话的声音。三分钟过去了；莱文觉得已经过去了一个多小时了。他不能再等了。

‘Pyotr Dmitrievitch, Pyotr Dmitrievitch!’ he said in an imploring voice at the open door. ‘For God’s sake, forgive me! See me as you are. It’s been going on more than two hours already.’
“彼得·德米特里耶维奇，彼得·德米特里耶维奇！”他在敞开的门前用恳求的声音说道。 ‘看在上帝的份上，请原谅我！看看我本来的样子。已经持续了两个多小时了。”

‘In a minute; in a minute!’ answered a voice, and to his amazement Levin heard that the doctor was smiling as he spoke.
'在一分钟内; “一会儿！”一个声音回答道，令莱文惊讶的是，医生说话时脸上带着微笑。

‘For one instant.’
“就那么一瞬间。”

‘In a minute.’
'在一分钟内。'

Two minutes more passed while the doctor was putting on his boots, and two minutes more while the doctor put on his coat and combed his hair.
又过了两分钟，医生穿上了靴子，又过了两分钟，医生穿上了外套，梳理了头发。

‘Pyotr Dmitrievitch!’ Levin was beginning again in a plaintive voice, just as the doctor came in dressed and ready. ‘These people have no conscience,’ thought Levin. ‘Combing his hair, while we’re dying!’
“彼得·德米特里耶维奇！”正当医生穿好衣服、准备好时，列文又用哀怨的声音开口说道。 “这些人没有良心，”莱文想。 “在我们快死的时候给他梳头发！”

‘Good morning!’ the doctor said to him, shaking hands, and, as it were, teasing him with his composure. ‘There’s no hurry. Well now?’
“早上好！”医生对他说，一边和他握手，一边用他的镇定来戏弄他。 ‘不着急。现在好了？'

Trying to be as accurate as possible, Levin began to tell him every unnecessary detail of his wife’s condition, interrupting his account repeatedly with entreaties that the doctor would come with him at once.
为了尽可能准确，莱文开始告诉他关于他妻子病情的每一个不必要的细节，并多次打断他的叙述，恳求医生立即和他一起去。

‘Oh, you needn’t be in any hurry. You don’t understand, you know. I’m certain I’m not wanted, still I’ve promised, and if you like, I’ll come. But there’s no hurry. Please sit down; won’t you have some coffee?’
‘噢，你不必着急。你不懂，你懂的。我确信我不受欢迎，但我还是答应了，如果你愿意，我会来。但不着急。请坐下;你不喝点咖啡吗？

Levin stared at him with eyes that asked whether he was laughing at him; but the doctor had no notion of making fun of him.
莱文盯着他，眼神仿佛在问他是不是在嘲笑他。但医生并没有取笑他的想法。

‘I know, I know,’ the doctor said, smiling; ‘I’m a married man myself; and at these moments we husbands are very much to be pitied. I’ve a patient whose husband always takes refuge in the stables on such occasions.’
“我知道，我知道，”医生微笑着说。 “我自己也是一个已婚男人；在这些时刻，我们丈夫是非常可怜的。我有一个病人，他的丈夫在这种情况下总是躲进马厩里避难。

‘But what do you think, Pyotr Dmitrievitch? Do you suppose it may go all right?’
“但是你觉得怎么样，彼得·德米特里耶维奇？你认为一切顺利吗？

‘Everything points to a favorable issue.’
“一切都指向一个有利的问题。”

‘So you’ll come immediately?’ said Levin, looking wrathfully at the servant who was bringing in the coffee.
“所以你马上就来？”莱文愤怒地看着送咖啡进来的仆人。

‘In an hour’s time.’
“一个小时后。”

‘Oh, for mercy’s sake!’
“哦，看在怜悯的份上！”

‘Well, let me drink my coffee, anyway.’
“好吧，无论如何，让我喝杯咖啡吧。”

The doctor started upon his coffee. Both were silent.
医生开始喝咖啡。两人都沉默了。

‘The Turks are really getting beaten, though. Did you read yesterday’s telegrams?’ said the doctor, munching some roll.
“不过，土耳其人确实被打败了。你读过昨天的电报了吗？”医生一边嚼着面包卷一边说道。

‘No, I can’t stand it!’ said Levin, jumping up. ‘So you’ll be with us in a quarter of an hour.’
“不，我受不了！”莱文跳起来说道。 “所以你一刻钟后就可以到我们这里了。”

‘In half an hour.’
'在半小时内。'

‘On your honor?’
“以您的名誉担保？”

When Levin got home, he drove up at the same time as the princess, and they went up to the bedroom door together. The princess had tears in her eyes, and her hands were shaking. Seeing Levin, she embraced him, and burst into tears.
莱文回到家后，和公主同时开车过来，两人一起上了卧室门口。公主眼里含着泪水，双手也在颤抖。看到莱文，她拥抱了他，泪流满面。

‘Well, my dear Lizaveta Petrovna?’ she queried, clasping the hand of the midwife, who came out to meet them with a beaming and anxious face.
“怎么样，我亲爱的莉扎维塔·彼得罗夫娜？”她握着助产士的手问道，助产士满脸笑容和焦虑地出来迎接他们。

‘She’s going on well,’ she said; ‘persuade her to lie down. She will be easier so.’
“她过得很好，”她说。 ‘劝她躺下。这样她会更容易。

From the moment when he had waked up and understood what was going on, Levin had prepared his mind to bear resolutely what was before him, and without considering or anticipating anything, to avoid upsetting his wife, and on the contrary to soothe her and keep up her courage. Without allowing himself even to think of what was to come, of how it would end, judging from his inquiries as to the usual duration of these ordeals, Levin had in his imagination braced himself to bear up and to keep a tight rein on his feelings for five hours, and it had seemed to him he could do this. But when he came back from the doctor’s and saw her sufferings again, he fell to repeating more and more frequently: ‘Lord, have mercy on us, and succor us!’ He sighed, and flung his head up, and began to feel afraid he could not bear it, that he would burst into tears or run away. Such agony it was to him. And only one hour had passed.
从醒来明白发生了什么事的那一刻起，莱文就做好了心理准备，坚决承受眼前的一切，不去考虑、不期待任何事情，以免让妻子心烦意乱，反而安抚她，让她保持平静。鼓起她的勇气。从他对这些磨难通常持续时间的询问来看，莱文甚至不让自己去思考接下来会发生什么，以及它将如何结束，他在想象中做好了承受并严格控制自己感情的准备。五个小时，他觉得自己能做到。但当他从医生那里回来，再次看到她的痛苦时，他开始越来越频繁地重复：“主啊，怜悯我们，拯救我们！”他叹了口气，猛地抬起头，开始感到害怕。他无法忍受，他会流泪或逃跑。这对他来说是多么痛苦。而仅仅过去了一个小时。

But after that hour there passed another hour, two hours, three, the full five hours he had fixed as the furthest limit of his sufferings, and the position was still unchanged; and he was still bearing it because there was nothing to be done but bear it; every instant feeling that he had reached the utmost limits of his endurance, and that his heart would break with sympathy and pain.
但过了这个小时，又过去了一个小时，两个小时，三个小时，整整五个小时，他设定为他的痛苦的最远限度，而这个姿势仍然没有改变。他仍然忍受着，因为除了忍受，别无他法。他每时每刻都感觉自己已经达到了忍耐的极限，他的心因同情和痛苦而破碎。

But still the minutes passed by and the hours, and still hours more, and his misery and horror grew and were more and more intense.
但时间一分一秒地过去，几​​个小时又过去了，他的痛苦和恐惧与日俱增，越来越强烈。

All the ordinary conditions of life, without which one can form no conception of anything, had ceased to exist for Levin. He lost all sense of time. Minutes—those minutes when she sent for him and he held her moist hand, that would squeeze his hand with extraordinary violence and then push it away—seemed to him hours, and hours seemed to him minutes. He was surprised when Lizaveta Petrovna asked him to light a candle behind a screen, and he found that it was five o’clock in the afternoon. If he had been told it was only ten o’clock in the morning, he would not have been more surprised. Where he was all this time, he knew as little as the time of anything. He saw her swollen face, sometimes bewildered and in agony, sometimes smiling and trying to reassure him. He saw the old princess too, flushed and overwrought, with her gray curls in disorder, forcing herself to gulp down her tears, biting her lips; he saw Dolly too and the doctor, smoking fat cigarettes, and Lizaveta Petrovna with a firm, resolute, reassuring face, and the old prince walking up and down the hall with a frowning face. But why they came in and went out, where they were, he did not know. The princess was with the doctor in the bedroom, then in the study, where a table set for dinner suddenly appeared; then she was not there, but Dolly was. Then Levin remembered he had been sent somewhere. Once he had been sent to move a table and sofa. He had done this eagerly, thinking it had to be done for her sake, and only later on he found it was his own bed he had been getting ready. Then he had been sent to the study to ask the doctor something. The doctor had answered and then had said something about the irregularities in the municipal council. Then he had been sent to the bedroom to help the old princess to move the holy picture in its silver and gold setting, and with the princess’s old waiting maid he had clambered on a shelf to reach it and had broken the little lamp, and the old servant had tried to reassure him about the lamp and about his wife, and he carried the holy picture and set it at Kitty’s head, carefully tucking it in behind the pillow. But where, when, and why all this had happened, he could not tell. He did not understand why the old princess took his hand, and looking compassionately at him, begged him not to worry himself, and Dolly persuaded him to eat something and led him out of the room, and even the doctor looked seriously and with commiseration at him and offered him a drop of something.
所有普通的生活条件，没有它们就无法形成任何事物的概念，对莱文来说已经不复存在了。他失去了所有时间感。几分钟——当她叫他来，他握着她湿润的手，用异常暴力地捏住他的手，然后又推开的那几分钟——对他来说似乎是几个小时，而几个小时对他来说又像是几分钟。当莉扎韦塔·彼得罗夫娜让他在屏风后面点燃一支蜡烛时，他感到很惊讶，他发现现在是下午五点钟。如果有人告诉他现在只是早上十点，他也不会感到更加惊讶。他一直在哪里，对任何事情的时间都一无所知。他看到她肿胀的脸，时而困惑、痛苦，时而微笑着试图让他放心。他也看到了老公主，她满脸通红，过度劳累，灰色的卷发乱糟糟的，咬着嘴唇，强迫自己咽下眼泪；他也看到了多莉和医生，抽着大烟，还有丽莎维塔·彼得罗夫娜，脸上表情坚定、果断、令人放心，老王子则皱着眉头在大厅里走来走去。但他们为何进来、为何出去、身在何处，他却一无所知。公主和医生在卧室里，然后在书房里，突然出现了一张准备晚餐的桌子。然后她不在那里，但多莉在那里。然后莱文想起他被送到某个地方了。有一次，他被派去搬一张桌子和沙发。他干得很急切，以为这是为了她而做的，后来才发现，他准备的竟然是自己的床。然后他就被派去研究室询问医生一些事情。医生接了话，然后说了一些市议会的违规行为。 然后他被派到卧室去帮助老公主搬动金银镶嵌的圣像，他和公主的老侍女一起爬上架子去拿它，打破了小灯，然后老仆人试图让他放心关于灯和他妻子的事情，他拿着圣像，把它放在凯蒂的头上，小心地把它塞到枕头后面。但这一切发生在何时、何地、为何发生，他却说不出来。他不明白老公主为什么拉着他的手，慈悲地看着他，求他不要自己担心，多莉劝他吃点东西，领着他出了房间，就连医生也一脸严肃而同情地看着他。并给了他一滴东西。

All he knew and felt was that what was happening was what had happened nearly a year before in the hotel of the country town at the deathbed of his brother Nikolay. But that had been grief— this was joy. Yet that grief and this joy were alike outside all the ordinary conditions of life; they were loop-holes, as it were, in that ordinary life through which there came glimpses of something sublime. And in the contemplation of this sublime something the soul was exalted to inconceivable heights of which it had before had no conception, while reason lagged behind, unable to keep up with it.
他所知道和感觉到的只是，所发生的事情就是近一年前在他兄弟尼古拉临终前在乡村小镇的旅馆里发生的事情。但那是悲伤——这是快乐。然而，那种悲伤和这种喜悦在所有普通的生活条件之外都是一样的。可以说，它们是平凡生活中的漏洞，通过它们可以瞥见崇高的东西。在对这种崇高事物的沉思中，灵魂被提升到了以前无法想象的不可思议的高度，而理性却落后了，无法跟上它。

‘Lord, have mercy on us, and succor us!’ he repeated to himself incessantly, feeling, in spite of his long and, as it seemed, complete alienation from religion, that he turned to God just as trustfully and simply as he had in his childhood and first youth.
“主啊，怜悯我们，拯救我们吧！”他不断地对自己重复道，尽管他似乎已经与宗教长期疏远了，但他还是感觉自己像以前一样信赖、单纯地转向了上帝。在他的童年和第一个青年时期。

All this time he had two distinct spiritual conditions. One was away from her, with the doctor, who kept smoking one fat cigarette after another and extinguishing them on the edge of a full ash tray, with Dolly, and with the old prince, where there was talk about dinner, about politics, about Marya Petrovna’s illness, and where Levin suddenly forgot for a minute what was happening, and felt as though he had waked up from sleep; the other was in her presence, at her pillow, where his heart seemed breaking and still did not break from sympathetic suffering, and he prayed to God without ceasing. And every time he was brought back from a moment of oblivion by a scream reaching him from the bedroom, he fell into the same strange terror that had come upon him the first minute. Every time he heard a shriek, he jumped up, ran to justify himself, remembered on the way that he was not to blame, and he longed to defend her, to help her. But as he looked at her, he saw again that help was impossible, and he was filled with terror and prayed: ‘Lord, have mercy on us, and help us!’ And as time went on, both these conditions became more intense; the calmer he became away from her, completely forgetting her, the more agonizing became both her sufferings and his feeling of helplessness before them. He jumped up, would have liked to run away, but ran to her.
一直以来，他都有两种截然不同的精神状态。其中一个离开了她，和医生在一起，医生不断地吸着一支又一支的大烟，然后在装满烟灰缸的边缘把它们熄灭，和多莉在一起，还有老王子在一起，在那里谈论晚餐，谈论政治，谈论事情。玛丽亚彼得罗夫娜生病了，列文突然忘记了发生了什么，感觉自己好像从睡梦中醒来；另一个则在她面前，在她的枕边，他的心似乎在破碎，但仍然没有因同情的痛苦而破碎，他不停地向上帝祈祷。每当他被从卧室传来的尖叫声从遗忘的瞬间拉回时，他就会陷入第一分钟降临到他身上的同样奇怪的恐惧之中。每次听到尖叫声，他都会跳起来，跑去为自己辩解，在路上他想起自己不应该受到责备，他渴望保护她，帮助她。但当他看着她时，他再次看到帮助是不可能的，他充满了恐惧并祈祷：“主啊，怜悯我们，帮助我们！”随着时间的推移，这两种情况变得更加严重；他越是平静地离开她，完全忘记她，她的痛苦和他在他们面前的无助感就越痛苦。他跳了起来，想要逃跑，却跑向了她。

Sometimes, when again and again she called upon him, he blamed her; but seeing her patient, smiling face, and hearing the words, ‘I am worrying you,’ he threw the blame on God; but thinking of God, at once he fell to beseeching God to forgive him and have mercy.
有时，当她一次又一次地呼唤他时，他却责怪她。但看到她耐心微笑的脸，听到“我让你担心”这句话，他就把责任归咎于上帝。但想到上帝，他立刻恳求上帝宽恕他并怜悯他。

He did not know whether it was late or early. The candles had all burned out. Dolly had just been in the study and had suggested to the doctor that he should lie down. Levin sat listening to the doctor’s stories of a quack mesmerizer and looking at the ashes of his cigarette. There had been a period of repose, and he had sunk into oblivion. He had completely forgotten what was going on now. He heard the doctor’s chat and understood it. Suddenly there came an unearthly shriek. The shriek was so awful that Levin did not even jump up, but holding his breath, gazed in terrified inquiry at the doctor. The doctor put his head on one side, listened, and smiled approvingly. Everything was so extraordinary that nothing could strike Levin as strange. ‘I suppose it must be so,’ he thought, and still sat where he was. Whose scream was this? He jumped up, ran on tiptoe to the bedroom, edged round Lizaveta Petrovna and the princess, and took up his position at Kitty’s pillow. The scream had subsided, but there was some change now. What it was he did not see and did not comprehend, and he had no wish to see or comprehend. But he saw it by the face of Lizaveta Petrovna. Lizaveta Petrovna’s face was stern and pale, and still as resolute, though her jaws were twitching, and her eyes were fixed intently on Kitty. Kitty’s swollen and agonized face, a tress of hair clinging to her moist brow, was turned to him and sought his eyes. Her lifted hands asked for his hands. Clutching his chill hands in her moist ones, she began squeezing them to her face.
他不知道是迟了还是早了。蜡烛已经全部燃尽。多莉刚刚参加了研究，并建议医生让他躺下。莱文坐着听医生讲述江湖催眠师的故事，看着他的烟灰。有一段时间的休息，他已经陷入了遗忘之中。他已经完全忘记了现在发生的事情。他听了医生的谈话，明白了。突然，传来一声怪异的尖叫声。尖叫声太可怕了，莱文甚至没有跳起来，而是屏住呼吸，惊恐地询问着医生。医生把头偏向一侧，听着，满意地笑了。一切都是如此非同寻常，没有什么能让莱文感到奇怪。 “我想一定是这样，”他想，仍然坐在原处。这是谁的尖叫声？他跳了起来，踮起脚尖跑进卧室，绕过莉扎维塔·彼得罗夫娜和公主，在基蒂的枕头边坐了下来。尖叫声已经平息了，但现在却出现了一些变化。那是什么他没有看到，也没有理解，他也不想看到或者理解。但他从莉扎维塔·彼得罗夫娜的脸上看出了这一点。莉扎维塔·彼得罗夫娜的脸色严肃而苍白，尽管她的下巴在抽搐，但仍然是坚决的，她的眼睛专注地盯着基蒂。基蒂肿胀而痛苦的脸，一缕头发紧贴在她湿润的额头上，她转向他，寻求他的目光。她举起双手请求他的手。她用湿润的双手握住他冰冷的双手，开始将它们压在脸上。

‘Don’t go, don’t go! I’m not afraid, I’m not afraid!’ she said rapidly. ‘Mamma, take my earrings. They bother me. You’re not afraid? Quick, quick, Lizaveta Petrovna...’
‘别走，别走！我不怕，我不怕！”她连忙说道。 ‘妈妈，拿走我的耳环。他们打扰我。你不害怕吗？快点，快点，莉扎维塔·彼得罗夫娜……”

She spoke quickly, very quickly, and tried to smile. But suddenly her face was drawn, she pushed him away.
她说得很快，非常快，并试图微笑。但突然她的脸色变得难看，她推开了他。

‘Oh, this is awful! I’m dying, I’m dying! Go away!’ she shrieked, and again he heard that unearthly scream.
‘哦，这太糟糕了！我要死了，我要死了！走开！”她尖叫道，他又听到了那声怪异的尖叫声。

Levin clutched at his head and ran out of the room.
莱文捂着头，跑出了房间。

‘It’s nothing, it’s nothing, it’s all right,’ Dolly called after him.
“没什么，没什么，没关系，”多莉在他身后喊道。

But they might say what they liked, he knew now that all was over. He stood in the next room, his head leaning against the door post, and heard shrieks, howls such as he had never heard before, and he knew that what had been Kitty was uttering these shrieks. He had long ago ceased to wish for the child. By now he loathed this child. He did not even wish for her life now, all he longed for was the end of this awful anguish.
但他们可以随心所欲地畅所欲言，他知道现在一切都结束了。他站在隔壁房间，头靠在门柱上，听到尖叫声，嚎叫声，他以前从未听过，他知道发出这些尖叫声的是凯蒂。他早就不再想要这个孩子了。现在他已经厌恶这个孩子了。他现在甚至不希望她活着，他所渴望的只是这可怕的痛苦的结束。

‘Doctor! What is it? What is it? By God!’ he said, snatching at the doctor’s hand as he came up.
'医生！它是什么？它是什么？天哪！”他说着，上前抓住了医生的手。

‘It’s the end,’ said the doctor. And the doctor’s face was so grave as he said it that Levin took the end as meaning her death.
“一切都结束了，”医生说。医生说这句话时脸色非常严肃，莱文认为这意味着她的死亡。

Beside himself, he ran into the bedroom. The first thing he saw was the face of Lizaveta Petrovna. It was even more frowning and stern. Kitty’s face he did not know. In the place where it had been was something that was fearful in its strained distortion and in the sounds that came from it. He fell down with his head on the wooden framework of the bed, feeling that his heart was bursting. The awful scream never paused, it became still more awful, and as though it had reached the utmost limit of terror, suddenly it ceased. Levin could not believe his ears, but there could be no doubt; the scream had ceased and he heard a subdued stir and bustle, and hurried breathing, and her voice, gasping, alive, tender, and blissful, uttered softly, ‘It’s over!’
他失控地跑进卧室。他首先看到的是莉扎维塔·彼得罗夫娜的脸。更是眉头紧锁，表情严肃。他不认识基蒂的脸。在它原来所在的地方，有一种令人恐惧的东西，它的扭曲变形和它发出的声音。他一头栽倒在床的木架上，感觉心都要碎了。可怕的尖叫声没有停息，反而变得更加可怕，仿佛已经到了恐怖的极限，突然停止了。莱文简直不敢相信自己的耳朵，但这是毫无疑问的。尖叫声停止了，他听到一阵微弱的骚动和喧闹声，还有急促的呼吸声，她的声音气喘吁吁，充满活力，温柔而幸福，轻轻地说：“结束了！”

He lifted his head. With her hands hanging exhausted on the quilt, looking extraordinarily lovely and serene, she looked at him in silence and tried to smile, and could not.
他抬起头。她双手疲惫地垂在被子上，显得格外可爱安详，默默地看着他，想笑，却笑不出来。

And suddenly, from the mysterious and awful far-away world in which he had been living for the last twenty-two hours, Levin felt himself all in an instant borne back to the old every-day world, glorified though now, by such a radiance of happiness that he could not bear it. The strained chords snapped, sobs and tears of joy which he had never foreseen rose up with such violence that his whole body shook, that for long they prevented him from speaking.
突然间，从过去二十二小时里他一直生活在其中的神秘而可怕的遥远世界中，莱文感觉自己瞬间回到了过去的日常生活世界，尽管现在，这样的一个世界让他感到荣耀。幸福的光芒让他无法承受。紧张的和弦突然断断续续，他从未预见到的抽泣和喜悦的泪水猛烈地涌上来，以至于他的整个身体都在颤抖，以至于他很长时间都无法说话。

Falling on his knees before the bed, he held his wife’s hand before his lips and kissed it, and the hand, with a weak movement of the fingers, responded to his kiss. And meanwhile, there at the foot of the bed, in the deft hands of Lizaveta Petrovna, like a flickering light in a lamp, lay the life of a human creature, which had never existed before, and which would now with the same right, with the same importance to itself, live and create in its own image.
他跪在床前，将妻子的手放在唇边亲吻，那只手以微弱的手指动作回应了他的亲吻。与此同时，在床脚处，在莉扎维塔·彼得罗夫娜灵巧的手中，就像一盏闪烁的灯，躺着一个人类的生命，它以前从未存在过，现在也将拥有同样的权利，对自己同样重要，以自己的形象生活和创造。

‘Alive! alive! And a boy too! Set your mind at rest!’ Levin heard Lizaveta Petrovna saying, as she slapped the baby’s back with a shaking hand.
'活！活！还有一个男孩！放心吧！”莱文听到丽莎维塔·彼得罗夫娜说道，她用颤抖的手拍着婴儿的背。

‘Mamma, is it true?’ said Kitty’s voice.
“妈妈，这是真的吗？”基蒂的声音说道。

The princess’s sobs were all the answers she could make. And in the midst of the silence there came in unmistakable reply to the mother’s question, a voice quite unlike the subdued voices speaking in the room. It was the bold, clamorous, self-assertive squall of the new human being, who had so incomprehensibly appeared.
公主的抽泣就是她唯一的答案。在一片寂静中，传来了对母亲问题的明确答复，那声音与房间里低沉的声音截然不同。这是新人类的大胆、吵闹、自信的咆哮，他的出现是如此令人费解。

If Levin had been told before that Kitty was dead, and that he had died with her, and that their children were angels, and that God was standing before him, he would have been surprised at nothing. But now, coming back to the world of reality, he had to make great mental efforts to take in that she was alive and well, and that the creature squalling so desperately was his son. Kitty was alive, her agony was over. And he was unutterably happy. That he understood; he was completely happy in it. But the baby? Whence, why, who was he?... He could not get used to the idea. It seemed to him something extraneous, superfluous, to which he could not accustom himself.
如果列文之前被告知基蒂死了，他和她一起死了，他们的孩子是天使，上帝就站在他面前，他不会感到惊讶。但现在，回到现实世界，他必须付出巨大的精神努力才能接受她还活着并且安然无恙，而那个拼命尖叫的生物就是他的儿子。凯蒂还活着，她的痛苦已经结束了。而他心里却是说不出的高兴。他明白；他对此感到非常高兴。但宝宝呢？从哪里来，为什么，他是谁？……他无法习惯这个想法。在他看来，这似乎是一种无关紧要、多余的东西，他无法习惯。

Chapter 16
第16章

At ten o’clock the old prince, Sergey Ivanovitch, and Stepan Arkadyevitch were sitting at Levin’s. Having inquired after Kitty, they had dropped into conversation upon other subjects. Levin heard them, and unconsciously, as they talked, going over the past, over what had been up to that morning, he thought of himself as he had been yesterday till that point. It was as though a hundred years had passed since then. He felt himself exalted to unattainable heights, from which he studiously lowered himself so as not to wound the people he was talking to. He talked, and was all the time thinking of his wife, of her condition now, of his son, in whose existence he tried to school himself into believing. The whole world of woman, which had taken for him since his marriage a new value he had never suspected before, was now so exalted that he could not take it in in his imagination. He heard them talk of yesterday’s dinner at the club, and thought: ‘What is happening with her now? Is she asleep? How is she? What is she thinking of? Is he crying, my son Dmitri?’ And in the middle of the conversation, in the middle of a sentence, he jumped up and went out of the room.
十点钟，老公爵、谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇和斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇坐在列文家里。询问完凯蒂的情况后，他们就开始谈论其他话题。莱文听着他们的谈话，无意识地，当他们谈话时，他回想起过去，回想起那天早上发生的事情，他想起了自己昨天到现在的样子。从那时起，仿佛已经过去了一百年。他觉得自己被抬高到了难以企及的高度，于是他刻意降低自己的高度，以免伤害与他交谈的人。他说话时，一直想着他的妻子，想着她现在的状况，想着他的儿子，他试图教育自己相信他的存在。自从他结婚以来，整个女人的世界给他带来了一种他以前从未怀疑过的新价值，现在却如此崇高，以至于他无法在自己的想象中接受它。他听到他们谈论昨天在俱乐部的晚餐，心想：“她现在怎么样了？”她睡着了吗？她怎么样？她在想什么？他在哭吗，我的儿子德米特里？”就在谈话进行到一半的时候，他跳了起来，走出了房间。

‘Send me word if I can see her,’ said the prince.
“如果我能见到她，请告诉我。”王子说道。

‘Very well, in a minute,’ answered Levin, and without stopping, he went to her room.
“很好，一会儿。”莱文回答道，然后没有停留，就朝她的房间走去。

She was not asleep, she was talking gently with her mother, making plans about the christening.
她没有睡着，正在和母亲温柔地交谈，计划着洗礼的事情。

Carefully set to rights, with hair well-brushed, in a smart little cap with some blue in it, her arms out on the quilt, she was lying on her back. Meeting his eyes, her eyes drew him to her. Her face, bright before, brightened still more as he drew near her. There was the same change in it from earthly to unearthly that is seen in the face of the dead. But then it means farewell, here it meant welcome. Again a rush of emotion, such as he had felt at the moment of the child’s birth, flooded his heart. She took his hand and asked him if he had slept. He could not answer, and turned away, struggling with his weakness.
她小心翼翼地整理好，头发梳得整整齐齐，戴着一顶漂亮的蓝色小帽子，双臂伸在被子上，仰面躺着。与他的目光相遇，她的目光将他吸引到了她的身边。当他靠近她时，她原本明亮的脸变得更加明亮。从尘世到非尘世的变化与死者脸上的变化是一样的。但那时是告别的意思，这里是欢迎的意思。一股激动的情绪再次涌上心头，就像孩子出生那一刻一样。她握住他的手，问他睡了吗？他无法回答，转身走开，与自己的虚弱作斗争。

‘I have had a nap, Kostya!’ she said to him; ‘and I am so comfortable now.’
“我已经睡过了，克斯特亚！”她对他说。 “我现在很舒服。”

She looked at him, but suddenly her expression changed.
她看着他，但突然脸色一变。

‘Give him to me,’ she said, hearing the baby’s cry. ‘Give him to me, Lizaveta Petrovna, and he shall look at him.’
“把他交给我吧，”她听到婴儿的哭声说道。 “把他交给我，丽莎维塔·彼得罗芙娜，他就会看着他。”

‘To be sure, his papa shall look at him,’ said Lizaveta Petrovna, getting up and bringing something red, and queer, and wriggling. ‘Wait a minute, we’ll make him tidy first,’ and Lizaveta Petrovna laid the red wobbling thing on the bed, began untrussing and trussing up the baby, lifting it up and turning it over with one finger and powdering it with something.
“当然，他的爸爸会看着他的。”莉扎维塔·彼得罗夫娜说着，站起身来，拿来了一个红色的、奇怪的、蠕动着的东西。 “等一下，我们先把他收拾干净。”莉扎维塔·彼得罗芙娜把那个红色的摇摇晃晃的东西放在床上，开始把婴儿的束缚解开又束缚起来，把它举起来，用一根手指把它翻过来，然后在上面撒上一些粉。

Levin, looking at the tiny, pitiful creature, made strenuous efforts to discover in his heart some traces of fatherly feeling for it. He felt nothing towards it but disgust. But when it was undressed and he caught a glimpse of wee, wee, little hands, little feet, saffron-colored, with little toes, too, and positively with a little big toe different from the rest, and when he saw Lizaveta Petrovna closing the wide-open little hands, as though they were soft springs, and putting them into linen garments, such pity for the little creature came upon him, and such terror that she would hurt it, that he held her hand back.
莱文看着这个可怜的小生物，费尽心机地在心中寻找一丝父爱的痕迹。他对此没有任何感觉，只有厌恶。但当它脱掉衣服时，他瞥见了小手，小脚，藏红花色，还有小脚趾，而且肯定还有一个与其他人不同的小大脚趾，当他看到莉扎维塔·彼得罗夫娜关闭时他张开小手，仿佛柔软的弹簧，把它们放进亚麻衣服里，他对这个小生物充满了怜悯，又害怕她会伤害它，于是他收回了她的手。

Lizaveta Petrovna laughed.
莉扎维塔·彼得罗芙娜笑了。

‘Don’t be frightened, don’t be frightened!’
“别害怕，别害怕！”

When the baby had been put to rights and transformed into a firm doll, Lizaveta Petrovna dandled it as though proud of her handiwork, and stood a little away so that Levin might see his son in all his glory.
当婴儿被纠正并变成一个坚固的洋娃娃时，莉扎韦塔·彼得罗芙娜摆弄着它，仿佛为自己的手工作品感到自豪，并站在远处，以便列文可以看到他儿子的所有荣耀。

Kitty looked sideways in the same direction, never taking her eyes off the baby. ‘Give him to me! give him to me!’ she said, and even made as though she would sit up.
凯蒂侧头看向同一个方向，目光始终没有离开婴儿。 ‘把他给我！ “把他给我吧！”她说，甚至做出要坐起来的样子。

‘What are you thinking of, Katerina Alexandrovna, you mustn’t move like that! Wait a minute. I’ll give him to you. Here we’re showing papa what a fine fellow we are!’
“你在想什么，卡捷琳娜·亚历山德罗夫娜，你不可以那样做！等一下。我把他给你。在这里，我们要向爸爸展示我们是多么好的一个人！”

And Lizaveta Petrovna, with one hand supporting the wobbling head, lifted up on the other arm the strange, limp, red creature, whose head was lost in its swaddling clothes. But it had a nose, too, and slanting eyes and smacking lips.
莉扎韦塔·彼得罗夫娜用一只手支撑着摇摇欲坠的头，另一只手则抬起了这个奇怪的、软弱的、红色的生物，它的头埋在襁褓里。但它也有鼻子、倾斜的眼睛和咂嘴的嘴唇。

‘A splendid baby!’ said Lizaveta Petrovna.
“真是个好孩子！”莉扎韦塔·彼得罗芙娜说道。

Levin sighed with mortification. This splendid baby excited in him no feeling but disgust and compassion. It was not at all the feeling he had looked forward to.
莱文羞愧地叹了口气。这个出色的婴儿让他兴奋不已，除了厌恶和同情之外，没有任何感觉。这根本不是他所期待的感觉。

He turned away while Lizaveta Petrovna put the baby to the unaccustomed breast.
他转过身去，莉扎维塔·彼得罗夫娜把孩子放在不习惯的怀里。

Suddenly laughter made him look round. The baby had taken the breast.
突然，笑声让他环顾四周。婴儿已经吃掉了乳房。

‘Come, that’s enough, that’s enough!’ said Lizaveta Petrovna, but Kitty would not let the baby go. He fell asleep in her arms.
“来吧，够了，够了！”莉扎维塔·彼得罗芙娜说道，但基蒂不肯放开孩子。他在她怀里睡着了。

‘Look, now,’ said Kitty, turning the baby so that he could see it. The aged-looking little face suddenly puckered up still more and the baby sneezed.
“现在看，”基蒂说着，把婴儿转过来，以便他能看到。那张苍老的小脸突然皱得更厉害了，婴儿打了个喷嚏。

Smiling, hardly able to restrain his tears, Levin kissed his wife and went out of the dark room. What he felt towards this little creature was utterly unlike what he had expected. There was nothing cheerful and joyous in the feeling; on the contrary, it was a new torture of apprehension. It was the consciousness of a new sphere of liability to pain. And this sense was so painful at first, the apprehension lest this helpless creature should suffer was so intense, that it prevented him from noticing the strange thrill of senseless joy and even pride that he had felt when the baby sneezed.
莱文微笑着，难以抑制泪水，吻了吻妻子，走出了黑暗的房间。他对这个小生物的感觉和他想象的完全不一样。这种感觉并没有什么令人愉快和快乐的。相反，这是一种新的恐惧折磨。这是对痛苦的新领域的意识。这种感觉一开始是如此痛苦，担心这个无助的生物会受苦如此强烈，以至于他没有注意到婴儿打喷嚏时他所感受到的那种毫无意义的喜悦甚至自豪的奇怪兴奋。

Chapter 17
第17章

Stepan Arkadyevitch’s affairs were in a very bad way.
斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇的处境非常糟糕。

The money for two-thirds of the forest had all been spent already, and he had borrowed from the merchant in advance at ten per cent discount, almost all the remaining third. The merchant would not give more, especially as Darya Alexandrovna, for the first time that winter insisting on her right to her own property, had refused to sign the receipt for the payment of the last third of the forest. All his salary went on household expenses and in payment of petty debts that could not be put off. There was positively no money.
买三分之二森林的钱已经花光了，剩下的三分之一，他已经提前向商人打了百分之十的折扣借了。商人不愿再多付钱，尤其是达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜在那年冬天第一次坚持她对自己财产的权利，拒绝在最后三分之一森林的付款收据上签字。他所有的薪水都用来支付家庭开支和偿还无法推迟的小额债务。确实没有钱。

This was unpleasant and awkward, and in Stepan Arkadyevitch’s opinion things could not go on like this. The explanation of the position was, in his view, to be found in the fact that his salary was too small. The post he filled had been unmistakably very good five years ago, but it was so no longer.
这是不愉快和尴尬的，在斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇看来，事情不能再这样下去了。在他看来，这个职位的原因在于他的薪水太低了。五年前，他所担任的职位无疑非常出色，但现在却不再如此了。

Petrov, the bank director, had twelve thousand; Sventitsky, a company director, had seventeen thousand; Mitin, who had founded a bank, received fifty thousand.
银行董事彼得罗夫有一万二千；公司董事斯文提茨基（Sventitsky）拥有一万七千美元；米廷创办了一家银行，收到了五万美元。

‘Clearly I’ve been napping, and they’ve overlooked me,’ Stepan Arkadyevitch thought about himself. And he began keeping his eyes and ears open, and towards the end of the winter he had discovered a very good berth and had formed a plan of attack upon it, at first from Moscow through aunts, uncles, and friends, and then, when the matter was well advanced, in the spring, he went himself to Petersburg. It was one of those snug, lucrative berths of which there are so many more nowadays than there used to be, with incomes ranging from one thousand to fifty thousand roubles. It was the post of secretary of the committee of the amalgamated agency of the southern railways, and of certain banking companies. This position, like all such appointments, called for such immense energy and such varied qualifications, that it was difficult for them to be found united in any one man. And since a man combining all the qualifications was not to be found, it was at least better that the post be filled by an honest than by a dishonest man. And Stepan Arkadyevitch was not merely an honest man—unemphatically—in the common acceptation of the words, he was an honest man—emphatically—in that special sense which the word has in Moscow, when they talk of an ‘honest’ politician, an ‘honest’ writer, an ‘honest’ newspaper, an ‘honest’ institution, an ‘honest’ tendency, meaning not simply that the man or the institution is not dishonest, but that they are capable on occasion of taking a line of their own in opposition to the authorities.
“显然我一直在打瞌睡，而他们却忽略了我。”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇想到了自己。他开始睁大眼睛，竖起耳朵，到了冬天快结束的时候，他发现了一个非常好的泊位，并制定了一个进攻计划，首先从莫斯科出发，通过阿姨、叔叔和朋友，然后，当事情进展顺利，春天，他亲自去了彼得堡。这是那些舒适、有利可图的泊位之一，如今这样的泊位比以前多得多，收入从一千到五万卢布不等。其职位是南方铁路联合机构和某些银行公司的委员会秘书。这一职位，就像所有此类任命一样，需要巨大的精力和如此多样化的资格，以至于很难找到任何一个人将他们团结在一起。既然找不到一个兼具所有资格的人，那么这个职位由一个诚实的人来填补至少比由一个不诚实的人来填补要好。斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇不仅是一个诚实的人——不强调地——就人们普遍接受的词而言，他是一个诚实的人——强调地——就这个词在莫斯科所具有的特殊意义而言，当他们谈论“诚实的”政治家时，他是一个诚实的人。 “诚实”的作家、一份“诚实”的报纸、一个“诚实”的机构、一种“诚实”的倾向，不仅意味着这个人或机构不诚实，而且意味着他们有时有能力采取自己的路线反对当局。

Stepan Arkadyevitch moved in those circles in Moscow in which that expression had come into use, was regarded there as an honest man, and so had more right to this appointment than others.
斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇在莫斯科那些使用这种说法的圈子里活动，被认为是一个诚实的人，因此比其他人更有权利获得这一任命。

The appointment yielded an income of from seven to ten thousand a year, and Oblonsky could fill it without giving up his government position. It was in the hands of two ministers, one lady, and two Jews, and all these people, though the way had been paved already with them, Stepan Arkadyevitch had to see in Petersburg. Besides this business, Stepan Arkadyevitch had promised his sister Anna to obtain from Karenin a definite answer on the question of divorce. And begging fifty roubles from Dolly, he set off for Petersburg.
这项任命每年带来七到一万的收入，奥布朗斯基可以在不放弃政府职位的情况下填补这一空缺。它掌握在两位部长、一位女士和两位犹太人的手中，所有这些人，尽管已经铺好了道路，但斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇必须去彼得堡看看。除了这件事之外，斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇还答应他的妹妹安娜在离婚问题上从卡列宁那里得到一个明确的答复。他向多莉乞讨了五十卢布，然后出发前往彼得堡。

Stepan Arkadyevitch sat in Karenin’s study listening to his report on the causes of the unsatisfactory position of Russian finance, and only waiting for the moment when he would finish to speak about his own business or about Anna.
斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇坐在卡列宁的书房里，听着他关于俄罗斯金融状况不佳的原因的报告，只等他说完自己的事或安娜的事。

‘Yes, that’s very true,’ he said, when Alexey Alexandrovitch took off the pince-nez, without which he could not read now, and looked inquiringly at his former brother-in-law, ‘that’s very true in particular cases, but still the principle of our day is freedom.’
“是的，这是千真万确的，”当阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇摘下夹鼻眼镜（没有戴上他现在就无法读书）并询问地看着他的前姐夫时，他说道，“在特殊情况下确实如此，但是我们这个时代的原则仍然是自由。

‘Yes, but I lay down another principle, embracing the principle of freedom,’ said Alexey Alexandrovitch, with emphasis on the word ‘embracing,’ and he put on his pince-nez again, so as to read the passage in which this statement was made. And turning over the beautifully written, wide-margined manuscript, Alexey Alexandrovitch read aloud over again the conclusive passage.
“是的，但是我制定了另一个原则，拥抱自由的原则，”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇说，强调了“拥抱”这个词，然后他又戴上了夹鼻眼镜，以便读到这一声明的段落。被制作了。阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇翻开那本写得很漂亮、页边距很宽的手稿，又大声朗读了结论性的段落。

‘I don’t advocate protection for the sake of private interests, but for the public weal, and for the lower and upper classes equally,’ he said, looking over his pince-nez at Oblonsky. ‘But they cannot grasp that, they are taken up now with personal interests, and carried away by phrases.’
“我主张保护不是为了私人利益，而是为了公共利益，平等地保护下层阶级和上层阶级，”他一边说，一边透过夹鼻眼镜看着奥布朗斯基。 “但他们无法理解这一点，他们现在被个人利益所占据，并被短语所迷惑。”

Stepan Arkadyevitch knew that when Karenin began to talk of what they were doing and thinking, the persons who would not accept his report and were the cause of everything wrong in Russia, that it was coming near the end. And so now he eagerly abandoned the principle of free-trade, and fully agreed. Alexey Alexandrovitch paused, thoughtfully turning over the pages of his manuscript.
斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇知道，当卡列宁开始谈论他们的所作所为和所思所想，那些不接受他的报告并造成俄罗斯一切问题的人时，事情就快结束了。所以现在他急切地放弃了自由贸易原则，并且完全同意了。阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇停了下来，若有所思地翻着手稿。

‘Oh, by the way,’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch, ‘I wanted to ask you, some time when you see Pomorsky, to drop him a hint that I should be very glad to get that new appointment of secretary of the committee of the amalgamated agency of the southern railways and banking companies.’ Stepan Arkadyevitch was familiar by now with the title of the post he coveted, and he brought it out rapidly without mistake.
“哦，顺便说一句，”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇说，“我想请你在你见到波莫尔斯基的时候，向他暗示一下，我会很高兴得到合并委员会秘书的新任命。 “南方铁路和银行公司的代理机构。”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇现在已经熟悉了他梦寐以求的职位名称，他很快就准确无误地说出了这个名称。

Alexey Alexandrovitch questioned him as to the duties of this new committee, and pondered. He was considering whether the new committee would not be acting in some way contrary to the views he had been advocating. But as the influence of the new committee was of a very complex nature, and his views were of very wide application, he could not decide this straight off, and taking off his pince-nez, he said:
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇向他询问了这个新委员会的职责，并进行了沉思。他正在考虑新委员会的行为是否会在某些方面与他一直倡导的观点相悖。但由于新委员会的影响非常复杂，而且他的观点适用面也非常广泛，所以他不能立即决定，摘下夹鼻眼镜说道：

‘Of course, I can mention it to him; but what is your reason precisely for wishing to obtain the appointment?’
“当然，我可以向他提及；但您希望获得任命的具体原因是什么？

‘It’s a good salary, rising to nine thousand, and my means...’
“工资不错，涨到九千，我的钱……”

‘Nine thousand!’ repeated Alexey Alexandrovitch, and he frowned. The high figure of the salary made him reflect that on that side Stepan Arkadyevitch’s proposed position ran counter to the main tendency of his own projects of reform, which always leaned towards economy.
“九千！”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇重复道，他皱起了眉头。高额的工资使他意识到，斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇提出的立场与他自己的改革计划的主要趋势背道而驰，而他自己的改革计划总是倾向于经济。

‘I consider, and I have embodied my views in a note on the subject, that in our day these immense salaries are evidence of the unsound economic assiette of our finances.’
“我认为，并且我已在有关该主题的说明中体现了我的观点，即在我们这个时代，这些巨额工资证明了我们财政状况不健全的经济状况。”

‘But what’s to be done?’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch. ‘Suppose a bank director gets ten thousand—well, he’s worth it; or an engineer gets twenty thousand—after all, it’s a growing thing, you know!’
“但是该怎么办呢？”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇问道。 “假设一位银行董事得到一万——好吧，他是值得的；或者工程师拿两万——毕竟，这是一个不断增长的事情，你知道！”

‘I assume that a salary is the price paid for a commodity, and it ought to conform with the law of supply and demand. If the salary is fixed without any regard for that law, as, for instance, when I see two engineers leaving college together, both equally well trained and efficient, and one getting forty thousand while the other is satisfied with two; or when I see lawyers and hussars, having no special qualifications, appointed directors of banking companies with immense salaries, I conclude that the salary is not fixed in accordance with the law of supply and demand, but simply through personal interest. And this is an abuse of great gravity in itself, and one that reacts injuriously on the government service. I consider...’
“我认为工资是购买某种商品的价格，它应该符合供求规律。如果工资是固定的，不考虑这条法律，例如，当我看到两个工程师一起离开大学时，他们都同样受过良好的训练和效率，其中一个得到四万，而另一个则满足于两个;或者当我看到没有特殊资格的律师和骠骑兵以巨额薪水任命银行公司董事时，我得出的结论是，薪水不是根据供求规律确定的，而只是通过个人利益确定的。这本身就是一种严重的滥用行为，并且对政府服务产生有害反应。我认为...'

Stepan Arkadyevitch made haste to interrupt his brother-in-law.
斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇急忙打断他的姐夫。

‘Yes; but you must agree that it’s a new institution of undoubted utility that’s being started. After all, you know, it’s a growing thing! What they lay particular stress on is the thing being carried on honestly,’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch with emphasis.
'是的;但你必须同意，这是一个正在启动的毫无疑问有用的新机构。毕竟，你知道，这是一个成长的事情！他们特别强调的是诚实地进行事情。”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇强调道。

But the Moscow significance of the word ‘honest’ was lost on Alexey Alexandrovitch.
但阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇却忽略了“诚实”这个词在莫斯科的意义。

‘Honesty is only a negative qualification,’ he said.
“诚实只是一种消极的资格，”他说。

‘Well, you’ll do me a great service, anyway,’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch, ‘by putting in a word to Pomorsky—just in the way of conversation....’
“好吧，不管怎样，你给波莫斯基说句话，无论如何，”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇说，“只是以谈话的方式……”

‘But I fancy it’s more in Volgarinov’s hands,’ said Alexey Alexandrovitch.
“但我认为它更多地掌握在沃尔加里诺夫手中，”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇说。

‘Volgarinov has fully assented, as far as he’s concerned,’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch, turning red. Stepan Arkadyevitch reddened at the mention of that name, because he had been that morning at the Jew Volgarinov’s, and the visit had left an unpleasant recollection.
“就沃尔加里诺夫而言，他完全同意了。”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇红着脸说道。斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇一提到这个名字，脸就红了，因为那天早上他去过犹太人沃尔加里诺夫家，这次拜访给他留下了一段不愉快的回忆。

Stepan Arkadyevitch believed most positively that the committee in which he was trying to get an appointment was a new, genuine, and honest public body, but that morning when Volgarinov had— intentionally, beyond a doubt—kept him two hours waiting with other petitioners in his waiting room, he had suddenly felt uneasy.
斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇非常肯定地认为，他试图获得任命的委员会是一个新的、真正的、诚实的公共机构，但那天早上，沃尔加里诺夫——毫无疑问是故意的——让他和其他请愿者一起等待了两个小时。候诊室里，他突然感到不安。

Whether he was uncomfortable that he, a descendant of Rurik, Prince Oblonsky, had been kept for two hours waiting to see a Jew, or that for the first time in his life he was not following the example of his ancestors in serving the government, but was turning off into a new career, anyway he was very uncomfortable. During those two hours in Volgarinov’s waiting room Stepan Arkadyevitch, stepping jauntily about the room, pulling his whiskers, entering into conversation with the other petitioners, and inventing an epigram on his position, assiduously concealed from others, and even from himself, the feeling he was experiencing.
无论他是因为自己，奥布隆斯基王子留里克的后裔，为了见到一个犹太人而被等了两个小时，还是因为他有生以来第一次没有效仿他祖先的榜样为政府服务，这让他感到不舒服，但他即将转向新的职业，无论如何他都感到非常不舒服。在沃尔加里诺夫的候诊室里的那两个小时里，斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇在房间里快活地走来走去，拉着胡须，与其他请愿者交谈，并就自己的立场发明了一句警句，刻意向别人，甚至他自己隐瞒了他的感觉。正在经历。

But all the time he was uncomfortable and angry, he could not have said why—whether because he could not get his epigram just right, or from some other reason. When at last Volgarinov had received him with exaggerated politeness and unmistakable triumph at his humiliation, and had all but refused the favor asked of him, Stepan Arkadyevitch had made haste to forget it all as soon as possible. And now, at the mere recollection, he blushed.
但他一直感到不舒服和生气，他却说不出为什么——无论是因为他无法正确理解他的警句，还是因为其他原因。当伏尔加里诺夫最后以夸张的礼貌和明显的胜利来迎接他的屈辱时，几乎拒绝了他的请求，斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇急忙尽快忘记这一切。现在，一想起，他就脸红了。

Chapter 18
第18章

‘Now there is something I want to talk about, and you know what it is. About Anna,’ Stepan Arkadyevitch said, pausing for a brief space, and shaking off the unpleasant impression.
“现在我想谈一件事，你知道那是什么。关于安娜，”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇停顿了一下，摆脱了不愉快的印象。

As soon as Oblonsky uttered Anna’s name, the face of Alexey Alexandrovitch was completely transformed; all the life was gone out of it, and it looked weary and dead.
奥布隆斯基一说出安娜的名字，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇的脸就彻底变了。它所有的生命都消失了，看起来疲惫而死气沉沉。

‘What is it exactly that you want from me?’ he said, moving in his chair and snapping his pince-nez.
“你究竟想从我这里得到什么？”他说，一边在椅子上移动，一边折断了夹鼻眼镜。

‘A definite settlement, Alexey Alexandrovitch, some settlement of the position. I’m appealing to you’ (“not as an injured husband,’ Stepan Arkadyevitch was going to say, but afraid of wrecking his negotiation by this, he changed the words) ‘not as a statesman’ (which did not sound a propos), ‘but simply as a man, and a good-hearted man and a Christian. You must have pity on her,’ he said.
“一个明确的解决方案，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇，这个位置的某种解决方案。我向你发出呼吁”（“不是作为一个受伤的丈夫，”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇本来想说，但由于担心这会破坏他的谈判，他改变了措辞）“不是作为一个政治家”（这听起来不是什么建议） ），'但只是作为一个人，一个好心的人和一个基督徒。你一定可怜她，”他说。

‘That is, in what way precisely?’ Karenin said softly.
“也就是说，具体以什么方式？”卡列宁轻声说道。

‘Yes, pity on her. If you had seen her as I have!—I have been spending all the winter with her—you would have pity on her. Her position is awful, simply awful!’
‘是的，可怜她。如果你像我一样看待她！——我整个冬天都和她在一起——你会怜悯她的。她的处境很糟糕，简直太糟糕了！”

‘I had imagined,’ answered Alexey Alexandrovitch in a higher, almost shrill voice, ‘that Anna Arkadyevna had everything she had desired for herself.’
“我原以为，”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇用更高的、近乎尖锐的声音回答，“安娜·阿尔卡季耶夫娜已经拥有了她想要的一切。”

‘Oh, Alexey Alexandrovitch, for heaven’s sake, don’t let us indulge in recriminations! What is past is past, and you know what she wants and is waiting for—divorce.’
“哦，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇，看在上帝的份上，别让我们沉迷于相互指责！过去的就过去了，你知道她想要什么，正在等待什么——离婚。”

‘But I believe Anna Arkadyevna refuses a divorce, if I make it a condition to leave me my son. I replied in that sense, and supposed that the matter was ended. I consider it at an end,’ shrieked Alexey Alexandrovitch.
“但我相信，如果我把儿子留给我作为条件，安娜·阿尔卡季耶芙娜会拒绝离婚。”我就这样回答，并认为事情已经结束了。我认为一切都结束了，”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇尖叫道。

‘But, for heaven’s sake, don’t get hot!’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch, touching his brother-in-law’s knee. ‘The matter is not ended. If you will allow me to recapitulate, it was like this: when you parted, you were as magnanimous as could possibly be; you were ready to give her everything—freedom, divorce even. She appreciated that. No, don’t think that. She did appreciate it—to such a degree that at the first moment, feeling how she had wronged you, she did not consider and could not consider everything. She gave up everything. But experience, time, have shown that her position is unbearable, impossible.’
“但是，看在上帝的份上，别太热了！”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇摸着他姐夫的膝盖说道。 ‘事情还没有结束。如果允许我概括一下的话，是这样的：分手时，你是最大程度的宽宏；你已经准备好给她一切——自由，甚至离婚。她对此表示赞赏。不，别这么想。她确实很感激，以至于在第一时间感受到自己多么冤枉你的时候，她没有考虑也无法考虑一切。她放弃了一切。但经验、时间已经表明，她的处境是难以忍受的、不可能的。”

‘The life of Anna Arkadyevna can have no interest for me,’ Alexey Alexandrovitch put in, lifting his eyebrows.
“我对安娜·阿尔卡季耶夫娜的生活没有兴趣，”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇扬起眉毛插话道。

‘Allow me to disbelieve that,’ Stepan Arkadyevitch replied gently. ‘Her position is intolerable for her, and of no benefit to anyone whatever. She has deserved it, you will say. She knows that and asks you for nothing; she says plainly that she dare not ask you. But I, all of us, her relatives, all who love her, beg you, entreat you. Why should she suffer? Who is any the better for it?’
“请允许我不相信这一点，”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇温和地回答道。 “她的处境对她来说是无法忍受的，对任何人都没有任何好处。你会说，这是她应得的。她知道这一点，并且不会向你索取任何东西；她直言不讳地说她不敢问你。但我，我们所有人，她的亲人，所有爱她的人，恳求你，恳求你。为什么她要受苦？谁更适合这样做？

‘Excuse me, you seem to put me in the position of the guilty party,’ observed Alexey Alexandrovitch.
“对不起，你似乎把我置于有罪一方的位置，”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇说道。

‘Oh, no, oh, no, not at all! please understand me,’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch, touching his hand again, as though feeling sure this physical contact would soften his brother-in-law. ‘All I say is this: her position is intolerable, and it might be alleviated by you, and you will lose nothing by it. I will arrange it all for you, so that you’ll not notice it. You did promise it, you know.’
‘噢，不，噢，不，一点也不！请理解我，”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇再次碰触他的手，仿佛确信这种身体接触会软化他的姐夫。 ‘我想说的是：她的处境令人难以忍受，你也许可以缓解这种情况，但你不会因此而受到任何损失。我会为你安排好一切，不让你察觉。你确实答应过，你知道的。

‘The promise was given before. And I had supposed that the question of my son had settled the matter. Besides, I had hoped that Anna Arkadyevna had enough generosity...’ Alexey Alexandrovitch articulated with difficulty, his lips twitching and his face white.
‘之前就已经答应过。我以为我儿子的问题已经解决了这个问题。而且，我本来希望安娜·阿尔卡季耶夫娜足够慷慨……”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇艰难地说道，他的嘴唇抽动着，脸色苍白。

‘She leaves it all to your generosity. She begs, she implores one thing of you—to extricate her from the impossible position in which she is placed. She does not ask for her son now. Alexey Alexandrovitch, you are a good man. Put yourself in her position for a minute. The question of divorce for her in her position is a question of life and death. If you had not promised it once, she would have reconciled herself to her position, she would have gone on living in the country. But you promised it, and she wrote to you, and moved to Moscow. And here she’s been for six months in Moscow, where every chance meeting cuts her to the heart, every day expecting an answer. Why, it’s like keeping a condemned criminal for six months with the rope round his neck, promising him perhaps death, perhaps mercy. Have pity on her, and I will undertake to arrange everything. Vos scrupules...’
“她把这一切都交给了你的慷慨。她恳求，她恳求你做一件事——将她从她所处的不可能的境地中解救出来。她现在不要求儿子了。阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇，你是个好人。将自己置于她的位置一分钟。离婚问题对于她这个位置来说，就是生死攸关的问题。如果你没有答应过一次，她就会甘心接受自己的处境，继续住在乡下。但你答应了，她写信给你，然后搬到了莫斯科。她在莫斯科已经呆了六个月了，每一次偶遇都让她心痛不已，每天都在等待答案。这就像用绳子套住一个被判死刑的罪犯六个月，许诺他也许会被处死，也许会被怜悯。可怜她吧，我会安排好一切。沃斯担心……”

‘I am not talking about that, about that...’ Alexey Alexandrovitch interrupted with disgust. ‘But, perhaps, I promised what I had no right to promise.’
“我不是在谈论那个，关于那个……”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇厌恶地打断道。 “但是，也许我承诺了我无权承诺的事情。”

‘So you go back from your promise?’
“所以你就食言了？”

‘I have never refused to do all that is possible, but I want time to consider how much of what I promised is possible.’
“我从来没有拒绝做所有可能的事情，但我需要时间考虑一下我所承诺的事情有多少是可能的。”

‘No, Alexey Alexandrovitch!’ cried Oblonsky, jumping up, ‘I won’t believe that! She’s unhappy as only an unhappy woman can be, and you cannot refuse in such...’
“不，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇！”奥布朗斯基跳起来喊道，“我不相信！她很不快乐，只有一个不快乐的女人才会这样，你不能拒绝……”

‘As much of what I promised as is possible. Vous professez d’etre libre penseur. But I as a believer cannot, in a matter of such gravity, act in opposition to the Christian law.’
‘尽可能多地履行我所承诺的。你自称自由思考者。但作为一名信徒，我不能在如此严重的问题上做出违反基督教法律的行为。”

‘But in Christian societies and among us, as far as I’m aware, divorce is allowed,’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch. ‘Divorce is sanctioned even by our church. And we see...’
“但据我所知，在基督教社会和我们中间，离婚是允许的，”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇说。 “甚至我们的教会也批准离婚。我们看到……”

‘It is allowed, but not in the sense...’
“这是允许的，但不是在这个意义上……”

‘Alexey Alexandrovitch, you are not like yourself,’ said Oblonsky, after a brief pause. ‘Wasn’t it you (and didn’t we all appreciate it in you?) who forgave everything, and moved simply by Christian feeling was ready to make any sacrifice? You said yourself: if a man take thy coat, give him thy cloak also, and now...’
“阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇，你不像你自己，”奥布朗斯基短暂停顿后说道。 ‘难道不是你（我们不都欣赏你吗？）宽恕了一切，并且仅仅被基督徒的感觉所感动，准备做出任何牺牲？你自己说过：如果一个人拿走了你的外套，就把你的斗篷也给他，现在……”

‘I beg,’ said Alexey Alexandrovitch shrilly, getting suddenly onto his feet, his face white and his jaws twitching, ‘I beg you to drop this...to drop...this subject!’
“我求求你，”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇突然站了起来，脸色苍白，下巴抽搐，尖声说道，“我求求你放弃这个……放弃……这个话题！”

‘Oh, no! Oh, forgive me, forgive me if I have wounded you,’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch, holding out his hand with a smile of embarrassment; ‘but like a messenger I have simply performed the commission given me.’
'不好了！噢，请原谅我，如果我伤害了你，请原谅我。”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇尴尬地微笑着伸出手来。 “但就像一个信使一样，我只是履行了赋予我的使命。”

Alexey Alexandrovitch gave him his hand, pondered a little, and said:
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇向他伸出了手，沉吟了一下，说道：

‘I must think it over and seek for guidance. The day after tomorrow I will give you a final answer,’ he said, after considering a moment.
“我必须仔细考虑并寻求指导。后天我会给你最终的答复。”他考虑了一下后说道。

Chapter 19
第19章

Stepan Arkadyevitch was about to go away when Korney came in to announce:
斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇正要离开，科尼进来宣布：

‘Sergey Alexyevitch!’
“谢尔盖·阿列克谢耶维奇！”

‘Who’s Sergey Alexyevitch?’ Stepan Arkadyevitch was beginning, but he remembered immediately.
“谢尔盖·阿列克谢耶维奇是谁？”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季耶维奇刚刚开口，但他立刻就想起来了。

‘Ah, Seryozha!’ he said aloud. ‘Sergey Alexyevitch! I thought it was the director of a department. Anna asked me to see him too,’ he thought.
“啊，谢廖扎！”他大声说道。 “谢尔盖·阿列克谢耶维奇！我以为是一个部门的主任。安娜也叫我去见他，”他想。

And he recalled the timid, piteous expression with which Anna had said to him at parting: ‘Anyway, you will see him. Find out exactly where he is, who is looking after him. And Stiva...if it were possible! Could it be possible?’ Stepan Arkadyevitch knew what was meant by that ‘if it were possible,’—if it were possible to arrange the divorce so as to let her have her son.... Stepan Arkadyevitch saw now that it was no good to dream of that, but still he was glad to see his nephew.
他还记得临别时安娜对他说的那副胆怯、可怜的表情：“无论如何，你会见到他的。”查明他到底在哪里，谁在照顾他。还有斯蒂瓦……如果可能的话！这可能吗？” 斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇知道“如果可能的话”是什么意思——如果有可能安排离婚，以便让她生下儿子……斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇现在明白了，这是不可能的。这是一个很好的梦想，但他仍然很高兴见到他的侄子。

Alexey Alexandrovitch reminded his brother-in-law that they never spoke to the boy of his mother, and he begged him not to mention a single word about her.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇提醒他的姐夫，他们从来没有和他母亲的儿子说过话，并恳求他不要提及关于她的任何一个字。

‘He was very ill after that interview with his mother, which we had not foreseen,’ said Alexey Alexandrovitch. ‘Indeed, we feared for his life. But with rational treatment, and sea-bathing in the summer, he regained his strength, and now, by the doctor’s advice, I have let him go to school. And certainly the companionship of school has had a good effect on him, and he is perfectly well, and making good progress.’
“在与他母亲会面后，他病得很重，这是我们没有预见到的，”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇说。 “确实，我们担心他的生命安全。但经过合理治疗，加上夏天的海水浴，他恢复了体力，现在在医生的建议下，我已经让他去上学了。当然，学校的陪伴对他产生了良好的影响，他非常好，并且取得了良好的进步。

‘What a fine fellow he’s grown! He’s not Seryozha now, but quite full-fledged Sergey Alexyevitch!’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch, smiling, as he looked at the handsome, broad-shouldered lad in blue coat and long trousers, who walked in alertly and confidently. The boy looked healthy and good-humored. He bowed to his uncle as to a stranger, but recognizing him, he blushed and turned hurriedly away from him, as though offended and irritated at something. The boy went up to his father and handed him a note of the marks he had gained in school.
‘他已经成长为一个多好的小伙子了！他现在不是谢廖扎，而是成熟的谢尔盖·阿列克谢耶维奇！”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季维奇微笑着说道，他看着这个穿着蓝色外套和长裤的英俊宽肩小伙子，他警觉而自信地走进来。这个男孩看起来很健康，心情也很好。他像向陌生人一样向叔叔鞠躬，但认出了他，脸红了，赶紧转过身去，好像对什么事情感到冒犯和恼怒。男孩走向他的父亲，递给他一张他在学校获得的分数的纸条。

‘Well, that’s very fair,’ said his father, ‘you can go.’
“嗯，这很公平，”他的父亲说，“你可以走了。”

‘He’s thinner and taller, and has grown out of being a child into a boy; I like that,’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch. ‘Do you remember me?’
‘他更瘦了，更高了，已经从一个孩子长成了一个男孩；我喜欢这样，”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇说道。 '你还记得我吗？'

The boy looked back quickly at his uncle.
男孩迅速回头看向他的叔叔。

‘Yes, mon oncle,’ he answered, glancing at his father, and again he looked downcast.
“是的，我的叔叔，”他回答道，看了一眼父亲，神情再次变得沮丧。

His uncle called him to him, and took his hand.
他的叔叔把他叫到身边，握住他的手。

‘Well, and how are you getting on?’ he said, wanting to talk to him, and not knowing what to say.
“嗯，你过得怎么样？”他想和他说话，却不知道该说什么。

The boy, blushing and making no answer, cautiously drew his hand away. As soon as Stepan Arkadyevitch let go his hand, he glanced doubtfully at his father, and like a bird set free, he darted out of the room.
男孩脸红了，没有回答，小心翼翼地抽回了手。斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇一松开手，就疑惑地看了父亲一眼，然后像一只被释放的小鸟一样，冲出了房间。

A year had passed since the last time Seryozha had seen his mother. Since then he had heard nothing more of her. And in the course of that year he had gone to school, and made friends among his schoolfellows. The dreams and memories of his mother, which had made him ill after seeing her, did not occupy his thoughts now. When they came back to him, he studiously drove them away, regarding them as shameful and girlish, below the dignity of a boy and a schoolboy. He knew that his father and mother were separated by some quarrel, he knew that he had to remain with his father, and he tried to get used to that idea.
谢廖扎上次见到母亲已经过去一年了。从那以后，他再也没有听到过她的消息。那一年他上学了，并在同学中交了朋友。他母亲的梦境和记忆曾让他在见到她后感到不舒服，但现在已经不再占据他的心思了。当他们回到他身边时，他故意将他们赶走，认为他们是可耻的、少女般的，有损男孩和学生的尊严。他知道他的父亲和母亲因一些争吵而分开，他知道他必须和父亲在一起，他试图习惯这个想法。

He disliked seeing his uncle, so like his mother, for it called up those memories of which he was ashamed. He disliked it all the more as from some words he had caught as he waited at the study door, and still more from the faces of his father and uncle, he guessed that they must have been talking of his mother. And to avoid condemning the father with whom he lived and on whom he was dependent, and, above all, to avoid giving way to sentimentality, which he considered so degrading, Seryozha tried not to look at his uncle who had come to disturb his peace of mind, and not to think of what he recalled to him.
他不喜欢见到他的叔叔，就像他的母亲一样，因为这会唤起他感到羞耻的回忆。他更不喜欢这个，因为从他在书房门口等候时听到的一些话，再加上父亲和叔叔的表情，他猜想他们一定是在谈论他的母亲。为了避免谴责与他一起生活并依赖他的父亲，最重要的是，为了避免让位于他认为有辱人格的多愁善感，谢廖扎尽量不看他的叔叔，因为他的叔叔来扰乱了他的平静。头脑，而不是去想他回忆起的事情。

But when Stepan Arkadyevitch, going out after him, saw him on the stairs, and calling to him, asked him how he spent his playtime at school, Seryozha talked more freely to him away from his father’s presence.
但是，当斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇跟着他出去，在楼梯上看到他，并叫住他，问他在学校的玩耍时间时，谢廖扎在父亲不在场的情况下更自由地与他交谈。

‘We have a railway now,’ he said in answer to his uncle’s question. ‘It’s like this, do you see: two sit on a bench— they’re the passengers; and one stands up straight on the bench. And all are harnessed to it by their arms or by their belts, and they run through all the rooms—the doors are left open beforehand. Well, and it’s pretty hard work being the conductor!’
“我们现在有一条铁路了，”他在回答叔叔的问题时说道。 “就像这样，你看到了吗：两个人坐在长凳上——他们是乘客；一个人在长凳上站直了。所有的人都用手臂或皮带绑在上面，然后跑过所有的房间——门事先是开着的。嗯，当指挥真是太辛苦了！”

‘That’s the one that stands?’ Stepan Arkadyevitch inquired, smiling.
“就是那个站着的吗？”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇微笑着问道。

‘Yes, you want pluck for it, and cleverness too, especially when they stop all of a sudden, or someone falls down.’
“是的，你需要勇气，也需要聪明，尤其是当他们突然停下来，或者有人摔倒的时候。”

‘Yes, that must be a serious matter,’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch, watching with mournful interest the eager eyes, like his mother’s; not childish now—no longer fully innocent. And though he had promised Alexey Alexandrovitch not to speak of Anna, he could not restrain himself.
“是的，这一定是一件严重的事情，”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇说道，他带着悲伤的兴趣注视着那双热切的眼睛，就像他母亲的那样。现在不再幼稚——不再完全天真。尽管他答应阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇不要谈论安娜，但他还是无法克制自己。

‘Do you remember your mother?’ he asked suddenly.
“你还记得你妈妈吗？”他突然问道。

‘No, I don’t,’ Seryozha said quickly. He blushed crimson, and his face clouded over. And his uncle could get nothing more out of him. His tutor found his pupil on the staircase half an hour later, and for a long while he could not make out whether he was ill-tempered or crying.
“不，我不知道，”谢廖扎很快说道。他脸色涨得通红，脸色阴沉下来。他的叔叔无法从他身上得到更多的信息。半个小时后，他的导师在楼梯上发现了他的学生，他好半天都分不清他是在发脾气还是在哭。

‘What is it? I expect you hurt yourself when you fell down?’ said the tutor. ‘I told you it was a dangerous game. And we shall have to speak to the director.’
'它是什么？我想你摔倒的时候会受伤吧？”导师说道。 “我告诉过你这是一场危险的比赛。我们必须和导演谈谈。

‘If I had hurt myself, nobody should have found it out, that’s certain.’
“如果我伤害了自己，没有人会发现，这是肯定的。”

‘Well, what is it, then?’
“那么，那是什么？”

‘Leave me alone! If I remember, or if I don’t remember?...what business is it of his? Why should I remember? Leave me in peace!’ he said, addressing not his tutor, but the whole world.
'请别打扰我！我记不记得？……关他什么事？我为什么要记住？让我安静吧！”他说的不是他的导师，而是全世界。

Chapter 20
第20章

Stepan Arkadyevitch, as usual, did not waste his time in Petersburg. In Petersburg, besides business, his sister’s divorce, and his coveted appointment, he wanted, as he always did, to freshen himself up, as he said, after the mustiness of Moscow.
斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇一如既往地没有在彼得堡浪费时间。在彼得堡，除了生意、妹妹的离婚和他梦寐以求的任命之外，正如他所说，在经历了莫斯科的霉味之后，他还想像往常一样让自己焕然一新。

In spite of its cafes chantants and its omnibuses, Moscow was yet a stagnant bog. Stepan Arkadyevitch always felt it. After living for some time in Moscow, especially in close relations with his family, he was conscious of a depression of spirits. After being a long time in Moscow without a change, he reached a point when he positively began to be worrying himself over his wife’s ill-humor and reproaches, over his children’s health and education, and the petty details of his official work; even the fact of being in debt worried him. But he had only to go and stay a little while in Petersburg, in the circle there in which he moved, where people lived—really lived—instead of vegetating as in Moscow, and all such ideas vanished and melted away at once, like wax before the fire. His wife?... Only that day he had been talking to Prince Tchetchensky. Prince Tchetchensky had a wife and family, grown-up pages in the corps,...and he had another illegitimate family of children also. Though the first family was very nice too, Prince Tchetchensky felt happier in his second family; and he used to take his eldest son with him to his second family, and told Stepan Arkadyevitch that he thought it good for his son, enlarging his ideas. What would have been said to that in Moscow?
尽管有咖啡馆和公共汽车，莫斯科仍然是一片死气沉沉的沼泽。斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇总是有这种感觉。在莫斯科生活了一段时间后，特别是与家人关系密切后，他感到精神沮丧。在莫斯科呆了很长一段时间没有改变之后，他开始真正地开始担心自己妻子的坏脾气和责备，担心孩子的健康和教育，以及他公务工作的琐碎细节；甚至负债这一事实也让他感到担忧。但他只要去彼得堡呆一会儿，在他搬家的圈子里，那里的人们生活着——真正生活着——而不是像在莫斯科那样过着单调的生活，所有这些想法立刻就消失了，像蜡一样融化了。火灾发生前。他的妻子？……就在那天，他一直在和切琴斯基王子说话。切琴斯基王子有妻子和家庭，还有军队里的成年侍从……他还有另一个私生子家庭。虽然第一家庭也很好，但切琴斯基王子在第二家庭感到更快乐。他常常带着他的大儿子去他的第二个家庭，并告诉斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇，他认为这对他的儿子有好处，扩大了他的想法。如果在莫斯科的话会怎么说呢？

His children? In Petersburg children did not prevent their parents from enjoying life. The children were brought up in schools, and there was no trace of the wild idea that prevailed in Moscow, in Lvov’s household, for instance, that all the luxuries of life were for the children, while the parents have nothing but work and anxiety. Here people understood that a man is in duty bound to live for himself, as every man of culture should live.
他的孩子们？在彼得堡，孩子们并没有妨碍父母享受生活。孩子们是在学校长大的，没有一丝在莫斯科盛行的疯狂想法，例如在利沃夫的家里，即所有奢侈的生活都是孩子们的，而父母除了工作和焦虑之外一无所有。在这里，人们明白，一个人有责任为自己而活，就像每个有文化的人都应该生活的那样。

His official duties? Official work here was not the stiff, hopeless drudgery that it was in Moscow. Here there was some interest in official life. A chance meeting, a service rendered, a happy phrase, a knack of facetious mimicry, and a man’s career might be made in a trice. So it had been with Bryantsev, whom Stepan Arkadyevitch had met the previous day, and who was one of the highest functionaries in government now. There was some interest in official work like that.
他的公务？这里的官方工作并不像莫斯科那样僵硬、无望的苦差事。这里有一些对官方生活的兴趣。一次偶然的相遇、一次服务、一句快乐的话语、一门滑稽的模仿技巧，一个人的事业也许会在一瞬间就成就。斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇前一天见过的布良采夫也是如此，他现在是政府最高官员之一。人们对这样的官方工作有一些兴趣。

The Petersburg attitude on pecuniary matters had an especially soothing effect on Stepan Arkadyevitch. Bartnyansky, who must spend at least fifty thousand to judge by the style he lived in, had made an interesting comment the day before on that subject.
圣彼得堡对金钱问题的态度对斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇产生了特别舒缓的影响。巴特尼亚斯基（Bartnyansky）必须花费至少五万美元才能判断他的生活方式，前一天他就这个问题发表了有趣的评论。

As they were talking before dinner, Stepan Arkadyevitch said to Bartnyansky:
当他们在晚餐前交谈时，斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇对巴特尼扬斯基说：

‘You’re friendly, I fancy, with Mordvinsky; you might do me a favor: say a word to him, please, for me. There’s an appointment I should like to get—secretary of the agency...’
“我想你对莫德文斯基很友好；你可以帮我一个忙：请替我对他说句话。我想要得到一个任命——该机构的秘书……”

‘Oh, I shan’t remember all that, if you tell it to me.... But what possesses you to have to do with railways and Jews?... Take it as you will, it’s a low business.’
“哦，如果你告诉我的话，我不会记得这一切……但是你怎么会和铁路和犹太人有关系呢？……随你便吧，这是一件低俗的事情。”

Stepan Arkadyevitch did not say to Bartnyansky that it was a ‘growing thing’—Bartnyansky would not have understood that.
斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇并没有对巴特尼扬斯基说这是一个“正在成长的东西”——巴特尼扬斯基不会明白这一点。

‘I want the money, I’ve nothing to live on.’
“我想要钱，但我没有什么可以生活的。”

‘You’re living, aren’t you?’
“你还活着，不是吗？”

‘Yes, but in debt.’
“是的，但是欠债了。”

‘Are you, though? Heavily?’ said Bartnyansky sympathetically.
‘你是吗？很重吗？”巴特尼扬斯基同情地说。

‘Very heavily: twenty thousand.’
“非常重：两万。”

Bartnyansky broke into good-humored laughter.
巴特尼扬斯基突然笑了起来。

‘Oh, lucky fellow!’ said he. ‘My debts mount up to a million and a half, and I’ve nothing, and still I can live, as you see!’
“哦，幸运的家伙！”他说。 “我的债务已达一百万半，我一无所有，但我仍然可以活下去，如你所见！”

And Stepan Arkadyevitch saw the correctness of this view not in words only but in actual fact. Zhivahov owed three hundred thousand, and hadn’t a farthing to bless himself with, and he lived, and in style too! Count Krivtsov was considered a hopeless case by everyone, and yet he kept two mistresses. Petrovsky had run through five millions, and still lived in just the same style, and was even a manager in the financial department with a salary of twenty thousand. But besides this, Petersburg had physically an agreeable effect on Stepan Arkadyevitch. It made him younger. In Moscow he sometimes found a gray hair in his head, dropped asleep after dinner, stretched, walked slowly upstairs, breathing heavily, was bored by the society of young women, and did not dance at balls. In Petersburg he always felt ten years younger.
斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇不仅在口头上而且在事实上也看到了这种观点的正确性。日瓦霍夫欠了三十万，却没有一分钱可以祝福自己，但他却活了下来，而且还过得很潇洒！克里夫佐夫伯爵被所有人认为是一个无可救药的人，但他却有两个情妇。彼得罗夫斯基已经挣了五百万了，依然过着同样的生活，甚至还当了财务部的经理，工资两万。但除此之外，彼得堡对斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇的身体也产生了令人愉快的影响。这让他更年轻了。在莫斯科，他有时会发现自己的头发花白了，晚饭后就睡着了，伸伸懒腰，慢慢地走上楼，喘着粗气，对年轻女性的社交感到厌倦，也不在舞会上跳舞。在彼得堡，他总是感觉自己年轻了十岁。

His experience in Petersburg was exactly what had been described to him on the previous day by Prince Pyotr Oblonsky, a man of sixty, who had just come back from abroad:
他在彼得堡的经历正如前一天刚从国外回来的六十岁的彼得·奥布隆斯基亲王向他描述的那样：

‘We don’t know the way to live here,’ said Pyotr Oblonsky. ‘I spent the summer in Baden, and you wouldn’t believe it, I felt quite a young man. At a glimpse of a pretty woman, my thoughts.... One dines and drinks a glass of wine, and feels strong and ready for anything. I came home to Russia—had to see my wife, and, what’s more, go to my country place; and there, you’d hardly believe it, in a fortnight I’d got into a dressing gown and given up dressing for dinner. Needn’t say I had no thoughts left for pretty women. I became quite an old gentleman. There was nothing left for me but to think of my eternal salvation. I went off to Paris—I was as right as could be at once.’
“我们不知道如何在这里生活，”彼得·奥布隆斯基说。 “我在巴登度过了夏天，你不会相信，我感觉自己很年轻。瞥见一位漂亮女人，我的想法……一个人吃饭，喝一杯酒，感觉坚强，准备好应对任何事情。我回到俄罗斯的家——必须去看我的妻子，而且，更重要的是，去我的乡村；在那里，你简直不敢相信，两周后我就穿上睡衣，不再穿衣服去吃晚饭了。不用说我对漂亮女人没有任何想法。我成了一位老绅士。除了想到我永恒的救赎之外，我别无选择。我去了巴黎——我立刻就说对了。

Stepan Arkadyevitch felt exactly the difference that Pyotr Oblonsky described. In Moscow he degenerated so much that if he had had to be there for long together, he might in good earnest have come to considering his salvation; in Petersburg he felt himself a man of the world again.
斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇准确地感受到了彼得·奥布隆斯基所描述的差异。在莫斯科，他堕落得如此严重，如果他必须在那里呆很长时间，他可能会认真考虑自己的救赎；在圣彼得堡，他再次感到自己是一个见多识广的人。

Between Princess Betsy Tverskaya and Stepan Arkadyevitch there had long existed rather curious relations. Stepan Arkadyevitch always flirted with her in jest, and used to say to her, also in jest, the most unseemly things, knowing that nothing delighted her so much. The day after his conversation with Karenin, Stepan Arkadyevitch went to see her, and felt so youthful that in this jesting flirtation and nonsense he recklessly went so far that he did not know how to extricate himself, as unluckily he was so far from being attracted by her that he thought her positively disagreeable. What made it hard to change the conversation was the fact that he was very attractive to her. So that he was considerably relieved at the arrival of Princess Myakaya, which cut short their tete-a-tete.
贝齐·特维尔斯卡娅公主和斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇之间长期以来一直存在着相当奇怪的关系。斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇总是开玩笑地和她调情，并且经常用开玩笑的方式对她说一些最不体面的话，因为他知道没有什么比这更让她高兴的了。与卡列宁谈话后的第二天，斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇就去看她，他觉得自己很年轻，在这种戏谑的调情和胡言乱语中，他鲁莽地走得太远，以至于他不知道如何自拔，不幸的是，他根本没有被吸引。他认为她非常令人讨厌。使谈话难以改变的是他对她非常有吸引力。因此，米卡娅公主的到来让他松了口气，缩短了他们的亲密接触。

‘Ah, so you’re here!’ said she when she saw him. ‘Well, and what news of your poor sister? You needn’t look at me like that,’ she added. ‘Ever since they’ve all turned against her, all those who’re a thousand times worse than she, I’ve thought she did a very fine thing. I can’t forgive Vronsky for not letting me know when she was in Petersburg. I’d have gone to see her and gone about with her everywhere. Please give her my love. Come, tell me about her.’
“啊，原来你在这里！”她一看到他就说道。 “那么，你可怜的妹妹有什么消息吗？你不必这样看着我，”她补充道。 ‘自从他们都反对她，所有那些比她差一千倍的人，我就认为她做了一件非常好的事情。我无法原谅渥伦斯基没有让我知道她在彼得堡的时间。我会去看她，并和她一起到处走走。请给她我的爱。来吧，告诉我关于她的事。

‘Yes, her position is very difficult; she...’ began Stepan Arkadyevitch, in the simplicity of his heart accepting as sterling coin Princess Myakaya’s words ‘tell me about her.’ Princess Myakaya interrupted him immediately, as she always did, and began talking herself.
“是的，她的处境非常困难；她……”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇开口说道，他的心单纯地接受了米卡娅公主的话，“告诉我关于她的事。”米卡娅公主像往常一样立即打断了他，开始自言自语。

‘She’s done what they all do, except me—only they hide it. But she wouldn’t be deceitful, and she did a fine thing. And she did better still in throwing up that crazy brother-in-law of yours. You must excuse me. Everybody used to say he was so clever, so very clever; I was the only one that said he was a fool. Now that he’s so thick with Lidia Ivanovna and Landau, they all say he’s crazy, and I should prefer not to agree with everybody, but this time I can’t help it.’
“她做了他们所有人都做的事，除了我——只是他们隐藏了它。但她不会欺骗人，而且她做了一件好事。她还把你那个疯狂的姐夫吐了出来，效果更好。你必须原谅我。大家都说他很聪明，非常聪明。我是唯一一个说他是傻瓜的人。现在他和莉迪亚·伊万诺夫娜和兰道关系这么密切，他们都说他疯了，我宁愿不同意所有人的观点，但这一次我忍不住了。

‘Oh, do please explain,’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch; ‘what does it mean? Yesterday I was seeing him on my sister’s behalf, and I asked him to give me a final answer. He gave me no answer, and said he would think it over. But this morning, instead of an answer, I received an invitation from Countess Lidia Ivanovna for this evening.’
“哦，请解释一下，”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇说。 '这是什么意思？昨天我代表姐姐去见他，请他给我一个最终答复。他没有回答我，说他会考虑一下。但今天早上，我没有得到答复，而是收到了莉迪亚·伊万诺芙娜伯爵夫人今晚的邀请。”

‘Ah, so that’s it, that’s it!’ said Princess Myakaya gleefully, ‘they’re going to ask Landau what he’s to say.’
“啊，原来如此，原来如此！”米卡娅公主高兴地说，“他们要问兰多要说什么。”

‘Ask Landau? What for? Who or what’s Landau?’
‘问兰道？做什么的？兰道是谁或是什么？

‘What! you don’t know Jules Landau, le fameux Jules Landau, le clairvoyant? He’s crazy too, but on him your sister’s fate depends. See what comes of living in the provinces—you know nothing about anything. Landau, do you see, was a commis in a shop in Paris, and he went to a doctor’s; and in the doctor’s waiting room he fell asleep, and in his sleep he began giving advice to all the patients. And wonderful advice it was! Then the wife of Yury Meledinsky—you know, the invalid?—heard of this Landau, and had him to see her husband. And he cured her husband, though I can’t say that I see he did him much good, for he’s just as feeble a creature as ever he was, but they believed in him, and took him along with them and brought him to Russia. Here there’s been a general rush to him, and he’s begun doctoring everyone. He cured Countess Bezzubova, and she took such a fancy to him that she adopted him.’
'什么！你不知道朱尔斯·兰道（Jules Landau），著名的朱尔斯·兰道（Jules Landau），透视者？他也疯了，但你妹妹的命运取决于他。看看在外省生活会发生什么——你对任何事情都一无所知。兰道，你知道吗，是巴黎一家商店的专员，他去看了医生。在医生的候诊室里，他睡着了，在睡梦中他开始给所有的病人提供建议。这是很棒的建议！然后尤里·梅勒丁斯基（Yury Meledinsky）的妻子——你知道，病人吗？——听说了这个兰道，并让他去见她的丈夫。他治愈了她的丈夫，虽然我不能说我看到他对他有多大好处，因为他还是一个像以前一样虚弱的人，但他们相信他，把他带到了俄罗斯。人们纷纷涌向他，他开始为每个人治疗。他治愈了贝祖博娃伯爵夫人，她非常喜欢他，所以收养了他。

‘Adopted him?’
“收养了他？”

‘Yes, as her son. He’s not Landau any more now, but Count Bezzubov. That’s neither here nor there, though; but Lidia—I’m very fond of her, but she has a screw loose somewhere—has lost her heart to this Landau now, and nothing is settled now in her house or Alexey Alexandrovitch’s without him, and so your sister’s fate is now in the hands of Landau, alias Count Bezzubov.’
“是的，作为她的儿子。他现在不再是兰道，而是别祖博夫伯爵。不过，这既不存在，也不存在。但是莉迪亚——我很喜欢她，但她有些地方出了问题——现在已经对这个兰道失去了心，没有他，她的房子或阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇的房子现在什么都解决不了，所以你姐姐的命运现在就在兰道（又名别祖博夫伯爵）之手。

Chapter 21
第21章

After a capital dinner and a great deal of cognac drunk at Bartnyansky’s, Stepan Arkadyevitch, only a little later than the appointed time, went in to Countess Lidia Ivanovna’s.
在巴特尼​​亚斯基家吃了一顿盛大的晚餐，喝了很多白兰地之后，斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇只比约定的时间晚了一点，就走进了莉迪亚·伊万诺芙娜伯爵夫人家。

‘Who else is with the countess?—a Frenchman?’ Stepan Arkadyevitch asked the hall porter, as he glanced at the familiar overcoat of Alexey Alexandrovitch and a queer, rather artless-looking overcoat with clasps.
“伯爵夫人身边还有谁？——一个法国人？”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇问大厅看门人，他瞥了一眼阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇熟悉的大衣和一件奇怪的、看起来很朴素的带扣大衣。

‘Alexey Alexandrovitch Karenin and Count Bezzubov,’ the porter answered severely.
“阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇·卡列宁和别祖波夫伯爵。”门房严厉地回答。

‘Princess Myakaya guessed right,’ thought Stepan Arkadyevitch, as he went upstairs. ‘Curious! It would be quite as well, though, to get on friendly terms with her. She has immense influence. If she would say a word to Pomorsky, the thing would be a certainty.’
“米卡娅公主猜对了，”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇一边上楼一边想。 '好奇的！不过，如果能和她搞好关系就好了。她有着巨大的影响力。如果她愿意对波莫斯基说一句话，事情就确定了。

It was still quite light out-of-doors, but in Countess Lidia Ivanovna’s little drawing room the blinds were drawn and the lamps lighted. At a round table under a lamp sat the countess and Alexey Alexandrovitch, talking softly. A short, thinnish man, very pale and handsome, with feminine hips and knock-kneed legs, with fine brilliant eyes and long hair lying on the collar of his coat, was standing at the end of the room gazing at the portraits on the wall. After greeting the lady of the house and Alexey Alexandrovitch, Stepan Arkadyevitch could not resist glancing once more at the unknown man.
外面的天还很亮，但莉迪亚·伊万诺芙娜伯爵夫人的小客厅里，百叶窗拉着，灯亮着。伯爵夫人和阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇坐在灯下的圆桌旁，轻声交谈。一个身材矮小、瘦削的男人，面色苍白，英俊潇洒，有着女性化的臀部和内八字腿，一双明亮的眼睛，长发披在衣领上，他站在房间的尽头，凝视着墙上的肖像。 。向女主人和阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇打招呼后，斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇忍不住又看了一眼这个陌生的男人。

‘Monsieur Landau!’ the countess addressed him with a softness and caution that impressed Oblonsky. And she introduced them.
“朗道先生！”伯爵夫人用温柔而谨慎的语气称呼他，这给奥布朗斯基留下了深刻的印象。她介绍了他们。

Landau looked round hurriedly, came up, and smiling, laid his moist, lifeless hand in Stepan Arkadyevitch’s outstretched hand and immediately walked away and fell to gazing at the portraits again. The countess and Alexey Alexandrovitch looked at each other significantly.
兰多急忙环顾四周，走上前来，微笑着，把他那双潮湿、毫无生气的手放在斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇伸出的手上，然后立即走开，又开始凝视着那些肖像。伯爵夫人和阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇面面相觑。

‘I am very glad to see you, particularly today,’ said Countess Lidia Ivanovna, pointing Stepan Arkadyevitch to a seat beside Karenin.
“我很高兴见到你，特别是今天，”莉迪亚·伊万诺芙娜伯爵夫人指着斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇坐在卡列宁旁边的座位上说道。

‘I introduced you to him as Landau,’ she said in a soft voice, glancing at the Frenchman and again immediately after at Alexey Alexandrovitch, ‘but he is really Count Bezzubov, as you’re probably aware. Only he does not like the title.’
“我向你介绍他时叫兰道，”她轻声说道，看了一眼法国人，又看了一眼阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇，“但你可能知道，他实际上是别祖波夫伯爵。”只是他不喜欢这个头衔。

‘Yes, I heard so,’ answered Stepan Arkadyevitch; ‘they say he completely cured Countess Bezzubova.’
“是的，我听说了，”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇回答道。 “他们说他彻底治愈了贝祖博娃伯爵夫人。”

‘She was here today, poor thing!’ the countess said, turning to Alexey Alexandrovitch. ‘This separation is awful for her. It’s such a blow to her!’
“她今天在这里，可怜的东西！”伯爵夫人转向阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇说道。 “这种分离对她来说是可怕的。这对她来说真是一个打击！

‘And he positively is going?’ queried Alexey Alexandrovitch.
“他肯定要去吗？”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇问道。

‘Yes, he’s going to Paris. He heard a voice yesterday,’ said Countess Lidia Ivanovna, looking at Stepan Arkadyevitch.
“是的，他要去巴黎。 “他昨天听到了一个声音。”莉迪亚·伊万诺芙娜伯爵夫人看着斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇说道。

‘Ah, a voice!’ repeated Oblonsky, feeling that he must be as circumspect as he possibly could in this society, where something peculiar was going on, or was to go on, to which he had not the key.
“啊，有声音！”奥布朗斯基重复道，他觉得在这个社会里他必须尽可能小心谨慎，因为这里正在发生一些奇怪的事情，或者将要继续发生，而他却没有钥匙。

A moment’s silence followed, after which Countess Lidia Ivanovna, as though approaching the main topic of conversation, said with a fine smile to Oblonsky:
片刻的沉默之后，莉迪亚·伊万诺夫娜伯爵夫人似乎已经接近了话题，对奥布朗斯基微笑着说道：

‘I’ve known you for a long while, and am very glad to make a closer acquaintance with you. Les amis de nos amis sont nos amis. But to be a true friend, one must enter into the spiritual state of one’s friend, and I fear that you are not doing so in the case of Alexey Alexandrovitch. You understand what I mean?’ she said, lifting her fine pensive eyes.
“我认识你很久了，很高兴能进一步认识你。 Les amis de nos amis sont nos amis。但要成为一个真正的朋友，一个人必须进入朋友的精神状态，我担心你在阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇的情况下没有这样做。你明白我的意思吗？”她抬起她那双若有所思的漂亮眼睛说道。

‘In part, countess, I understand the position of Alexey Alexandrovitch...’ said Oblonsky. Having no clear idea what they were talking about, he wanted to confine himself to generalities.
“伯爵夫人，我在某种程度上理解阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇的立场……”奥布隆斯基说道。由于不清楚他们在说什么，他只想笼统地说。

‘The change is not in his external position,’ Countess Lidia Ivanovna said sternly, following with eyes of love the figure of Alexey Alexandrovitch as he got up and crossed over to Landau; ‘his heart is changed, a new heart has been vouchsafed him, and I fear you don’t fully apprehend the change that has taken place in him.’
“变化并不在于他的外表，”伯爵夫人莉迪亚·伊万诺夫娜严厉地说，当阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇起身走向兰道时，她用充满爱意的目光注视着他。 “他的心变了，一颗新的心被赋予了他，我担心你没有完全理解他身上发生的变化。”

‘Oh, well, in general outlines I can conceive the change. We have always been friendly, and now...’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch, responding with a sympathetic glance to the expression of the countess, and mentally balancing the question with which of the two ministers she was most intimate, so as to know about which to ask her to speak for him.
“哦，好吧，大体上我可以设想这种改变。我们一直都很友好，现在……”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇说，用同情的目光回应伯爵夫人的表情，并在心里权衡着她与两位大臣中哪一位最亲密的问题，以便知道哪一位是最亲密的。请她为他说话。

‘The change that has taken place in him cannot lessen his love for his neighbors; on the contrary, that change can only intensify love in his heart. But I am afraid you do not understand me. Won’t you have some tea?’ she said, with her eyes indicating the footman, who was handing round tea on a tray.
“他身上发生的变化并不能减少他对邻居的爱；相反，这种改变只会让他心中的爱更加强烈。但我担心你不理解我。你不喝点茶吗？”她说，眼睛指着正在用托盘递茶的男仆。

‘Not quite, countess. Of course, his misfortune...’
“不完全是，伯爵夫人。当然，他的不幸……”

‘Yes, a misfortune which has proved the highest happiness, when his heart was made new, was filled full of it,’ she said, gazing with eyes full of love at Stepan Arkadyevitch.
“是的，当他的心焕然一新时，不幸已被证明是最高的幸福，”她说，用充满爱意的眼睛凝视着斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇。

‘I do believe I might ask her to speak to both of them,’ thought Stepan Arkadyevitch.
“我确实相信我可以请她跟他们俩谈谈，”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇想。

‘Oh, of course, countess,’ he said; ‘but I imagine such changes are a matter so private that no one, even the most intimate friend, would care to speak of them.’
“哦，当然，伯爵夫人，”他说。 “但我认为这些变化是一件非常私密的事情，没有人，即使是最亲密的朋友，也不会愿意谈论它们。”

‘On the contrary! We ought to speak freely and help one another.’
'相反！我们应该畅所欲言并互相帮助。”

‘Yes, undoubtedly so, but there is such a difference of convictions, and besides...’ said Oblonsky with a soft smile.
“是的，毫无疑问是这样，但是信念上有很大差异，而且……”奥布朗斯基温柔地微笑着说道。

‘There can be no difference where it is a question of holy truth.’
“在涉及神圣真理的问题上，没有什么区别。”

‘Oh, no, of course; but...’ and Stepan Arkadyevitch paused in confusion. He understood at last that they were talking of religion.
“哦，不，当然；但是……”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇困惑地停了下来。他终于明白他们在谈论宗教。

‘I fancy he will fall asleep immediately,’ said Alexey Alexandrovitch in a whisper full of meaning, going up to Lidia Ivanovna.
“我想他会立刻睡着，”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇走到莉迪亚·伊万诺夫娜身边，低声说道，意味深长。

Stepan Arkadyevitch looked round. Landau was sitting at the window, leaning on his elbow and the back of his chair, his head drooping. Noticing that all eyes were turned on him he raised his head and smiled a smile of childlike artlessness.
斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇环顾四周。兰多坐在窗边，肘部靠在椅背上，低着头。注意到所有人的目光都集中在他身上，他抬起头，露出了孩子般天真的笑容。

‘Don’t take any notice,’ said Lidia Ivanovna, and she lightly moved a chair up for Alexey Alexandrovitch. ‘I have observed...’ she was beginning, when a footman came into the room with a letter. Lidia Ivanovna rapidly ran her eyes over the note, and excusing herself, wrote an answer with extraordinary rapidity, handed it to the man, and came back to the table. ‘I have observed,’ she went on, ‘that Moscow people, especially the men, are more indifferent to religion than anyone.’
“别在意，”莉迪亚·伊万诺夫娜说道，她轻轻地为阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇搬了一把椅子。 “我观察到……”她正要开口，一名男仆带着一封信走进房间。莉迪亚·伊万诺夫娜迅速扫过那张纸条，道了歉，以惊人的速度写下了答案，递给了那个男人，然后回到了桌子旁。 “我观察到，”她接着说，“莫斯科人，尤其是男人，对宗教比任何人都更加冷漠。”

‘Oh, no, countess, I thought Moscow people had the reputation of being the firmest in the faith,’ answered Stepan Arkadyevitch.
“哦，不，伯爵夫人，我以为莫斯科人享有信仰最坚定的名声，”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇回答道。

‘But as far as I can make out, you are unfortunately one of the indifferent ones,’ said Alexey Alexandrovitch, turning to him with a weary smile.
“但据我所知，不幸的是，你是冷漠的人之一，”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇说，转向他，带着疲倦的微笑。

‘How anyone can be indifferent!’ said Lidia Ivanovna.
“怎么会有人冷漠呢！”莉迪亚·伊万诺夫娜说道。

‘I am not so much indifferent on that subject as I am waiting in suspense,’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch, with his most deprecating smile. ‘I hardly think that the time for such questions has come yet for me.’
“与其说我对这个问题漠不关心，不如说我是在悬念中等待。”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇带着最不以为然的微笑说道。 “我认为我现在还没有到提出这些问题的时候。”

Alexey Alexandrovitch and Lidia Ivanovna looked at each other.
阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇和莉迪亚·伊万诺芙娜互相看了一眼。

‘We can never tell whether the time has come for us or not,’ said Alexey Alexandrovitch severely. ‘We ought not to think whether we are ready or not ready. God’s grace is not guided by human considerations: sometimes it comes not to those that strive for it, and comes to those that are unprepared, like Saul.’
“我们永远无法判断我们的时机是否已经到来，”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇严厉地说。 ‘我们不应该考虑我们是否准备好。神的恩典不以人的考虑为导向：有时它不会临到那些努力争取的人，而是临到那些没有准备好的人，比如扫罗。

‘No, I believe it won’t be just yet,’ said Lidia Ivanovna, who had been meanwhile watching the movements of the Frenchman. Landau got up and came to them.
“不，我相信还不会，”莉迪亚·伊万诺芙娜说道，她一直在观察法国人的一举一动。兰多站起身来向他们走来。

‘Do you allow me to listen?’ he asked.
“你能让我听听吗？”他问道。

‘Oh, yes; I did not want to disturb you,’ said Lidia Ivanovna, gazing tenderly at him; ‘sit here with us.’
'哦是的; “我不想打扰你。”莉迪亚·伊万诺夫娜温柔地看着他说道。 “和我们一起坐在这里。”

‘One has only not to close one’s eyes to shut out the light,’ Alexey Alexandrovitch went on.
“只要不闭上眼睛就可以阻挡光线，”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇继续说道。

‘Ah, if you knew the happiness we know, feeling His presence ever in our hearts!’ said Countess Lidia Ivanovna with a rapturous smile.
“啊，如果你能体会到我们所知道的幸福，感受到他永远存在于我们心中就好了！”莉迪亚·伊万诺夫娜伯爵夫人带着欣喜若狂的微笑说道。

‘But a man may feel himself unworthy sometimes to rise to that height,’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch, conscious of hypocrisy in admitting this religious height, but at the same time unable to bring himself to acknowledge his free-thinking views before a person who, by a single word to Pomorsky, might procure him the coveted appointment.
“但一个人有时可能会觉得自己不配达到那个高度，”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季维奇说，他意识到承认这种宗教高度的虚伪，但同时又无法让自己在一个人面前承认他的自由思想观点，只要对波莫斯基说一句话，就可能让他获得梦寐以求的任命。

‘That is, you mean that sin keeps him back?’ said Lidia Ivanovna. ‘But that is a false idea. There is no sin for believers, their sin has been atoned for. Pardon,’ she added, looking at the footman, who came in again with another letter. She read it and gave a verbal answer: ‘Tomorrow at the Grand Duchess’s, say.’ ‘For the believer sin is not,’ she went on.
“也就是说，你的意思是罪孽让他回来了？”莉迪亚·伊万诺夫娜说。 “但这是一个错误的想法。信徒没有罪，他们的罪已经被赎了。请原谅，”她补充道，看着男仆，男仆又带着另一封信进来了。她读完后口头回答：“明天在大公夫人家吧。”“对于信徒来说，罪不是罪，”她继续说道。

‘Yes, but faith without works is dead,’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch, recalling the phrase from the catechism, and only by his smile clinging to his independence.
“是的，但是没有行为的信仰是死的，”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇回忆起教理问答中的这句话，只是通过微笑坚持他的独立性。

‘There you have it—from the epistle of St. James,’ said Alexey Alexandrovitch, addressing Lidia Ivanovna, with a certain reproachfulness in his tone. It was unmistakably a subject they had discussed more than once before. ‘What harm has been done by the false interpretation of that passage! Nothing holds men back from belief like that misinterpretation. ‘I have not works, so I cannot believe,’ though all the while that is not said. But the very opposite is said.’
“这就是圣詹姆斯书信中的内容。”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇对莉迪亚·伊万诺夫娜说道，语气中带着某种责备。毫无疑问，这是他们之前不止一次讨论过的话题。 ‘对那段经文的错误解释造成了多大的伤害啊！没有什么比这种误解更能让人们放弃信仰了。 “我没有行为，所以我无法相信”，尽管这句话一直没有说出来。但说法恰恰相反。

‘Striving for God, saving the soul by fasting,’ said Countess Lidia Ivanovna, with disgusted contempt, ‘those are the crude ideas of our monks.... Yet that is nowhere said. It is far simpler and easier,’ she added, looking at Oblonsky with the same encouraging smile with which at court she encouraged youthful maids of honor, disconcerted by the new surroundings of the court.
“为上帝而奋斗，通过禁食来拯救灵魂，”莉迪亚·伊万诺芙娜伯爵夫人带着厌恶的轻蔑说道，“这些都是我们僧侣们的粗俗想法……然而，这却没有任何地方被提及。它更简单、更容易。”她补充道，看着奥布朗斯基，脸上带着鼓励的微笑，就像她在宫廷里鼓励年轻的伴娘一样，她们对宫廷的新环境感到不安。

‘We are saved by Christ who suffered for us. We are saved by faith,’ Alexey Alexandrovitch chimed in, with a glance of approval at her words.
‘我们被为我们受苦的基督所拯救。我们因信仰而得救，”阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇插话道，对她的话露出赞赏的目光。

‘Vous comprenez l’anglais?’ asked Lidia Ivanovna, and receiving a reply in the affirmative, she got up and began looking through a shelf of books.
“你懂英语吗？”莉迪亚·伊万诺夫娜问道，得到肯定的答复后，她站了起来，开始翻阅书架。

‘I want to read him ‘Safe and Happy,’ or ‘Under the Wing,’’ she said, looking inquiringly at Karenin. And finding the book, and sitting down again in her place, she opened it. ‘It’s very short. In it is described the way by which faith can be reached, and the happiness, above all earthly bliss, with which it fills the soul. The believer cannot be unhappy because he is not alone. But you will see.’ She was just settling herself to read when the footman came in again. ‘Madame Borozdina? Tell her, tomorrow at two o’clock. Yes,’ she said, putting her finger in the place in the book, and gazing before her with her fine pensive eyes, ‘that is how true faith acts. You know Marie Sanina? You know about her trouble? She lost her only child. She was in despair. And what happened? She found this comforter, and she thanks God now for the death of her child. Such is the happiness faith brings!’
“我想读他的《安全快乐》或者《在翅膀之下》，”她问道，询问地看着卡列宁。她找到了那本书，又在自己的位置上坐下，打开了它。 ‘这很短。其中描述了达到信仰的方式，以及它充满灵魂的幸福，尤其是尘世的幸福。信徒不可能不快乐，因为他并不孤单。但你会看到的。”她正准备读书，男仆又进来了。 “博罗兹迪娜夫人？告诉她，明天两点。是的，”她说，把手指放在书上的地方，用那双沉思的漂亮眼睛凝视着前方，“这就是真正的信仰的作用。你认识玛丽·萨尼娜吗？你知道她的麻烦吗？她失去了唯一的孩子。她很绝望。发生什么了？她找到了这个安慰者，现在她感谢上帝让她的孩子死去。这就是信仰带来的幸福！

‘Oh, yes, that is most...’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch, glad they were going to read, and let him have a chance to collect his faculties. ‘No, I see I’d better not ask her about anything today,’ he thought. ‘If only I can get out of this without putting my foot in it!’
“哦，是的，这就是最……”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇说，很高兴他们要读书，让他有机会恢复自己的才能。 “不，我明白今天最好不要问她任何事情，”他想。 “如果我能摆脱困境而不用脚踏入就好了！”

‘It will be dull for you,’ said Countess Lidia Ivanovna, addressing Landau; ‘you don’t know English, but it’s short.’
“这对你来说会很无聊，”莉迪亚·伊万诺芙娜伯爵夫人对兰道说道。 “你不懂英语，但它很短。”

‘Oh, I shall understand,’ said Landau, with the same smile, and he closed his eyes. Alexey Alexandrovitch and Lidia Ivanovna exchanged meaningful glances, and the reading began.
“哦，我会明白的，”兰多带着同样的微笑说道，然后闭上了眼睛。阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇和莉迪亚·伊万诺夫娜意味深长地交换了一个眼神，朗诵开始了。

Chapter 22
第22章

Stepan Arkadyevitch felt completely nonplussed by the strange talk which he was hearing for the first time. The complexity of Petersburg, as a rule, had a stimulating effect on him, rousing him out of his Moscow stagnation. But he liked these complications, and understood them only in the circles he knew and was at home in. In these unfamiliar surroundings he was puzzled and disconcerted, and could not get his bearings. As he listened to Countess Lidia Ivanovna, aware of the beautiful, artless—or perhaps artful, he could not decide which—eyes of Landau fixed upon him, Stepan Arkadyevitch began to be conscious of a peculiar heaviness in his head.
斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇第一次听到这种奇怪的谈话，感到完全不知所措。一般来说，彼得堡的复杂性对他产生了刺激作用，使他摆脱了莫斯科的停滞。但他喜欢这些复杂的东西，只有在他熟悉的、熟悉的圈子里才能理解它们。在这些陌生的环境中，他感到困惑和不知所措，迷失了方向。当他听着莉迪亚·伊万诺芙娜伯爵夫人说话时，意识到兰道那双美丽的、天真的——也许是狡猾的，他无法决定是哪一种——眼睛注视着他，斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇开始意识到他的头脑里有一种特殊的沉重。

The most incongruous ideas were in confusion in his head. ‘Marie Sanina is glad her child’s dead.... How good a smoke would be now!... To be saved, one need only believe, and the monks don’t know how the thing’s to be done, but Countess Lidia Ivanovna does know.... And why is my head so heavy? Is it the cognac, or all this being so queer? Anyway, I fancy I’ve done nothing unsuitable so far. But anyway, it won’t do to ask her now. They say they make one say one’s prayers. I only hope they won’t make me! That’ll be too imbecile. And what stuff it is she’s reading! but she has a good accent. Landau—Bezzubov— what’s he Bezzubov for?’ All at once Stepan Arkadyevitch became aware that his lower jaw was uncontrollably forming a yawn. He pulled his whiskers to cover the yawn, and shook himself together. But soon after he became aware that he was dropping asleep and on the very point of snoring. He recovered himself at the very moment when the voice of Countess Lidia Ivanovna was saying ‘he’s asleep.’ Stepan Arkadyevitch started with dismay, feeling guilty and caught. But he was reassured at once by seeing that the words ‘he’s asleep’ referred not to him, but to Landau. The Frenchman was asleep as well as Stepan Arkadyevitch. But Stepan Arkadyevitch’s being asleep would have offended them, as he thought (though even this, he thought, might not be so, as everything seemed so queer), while Landau’s being asleep delighted them extremely, especially Countess Lidia Ivanovna.
最不协调的想法在他脑子里一片混乱。 “玛丽·萨尼娜很高兴她的孩子死了……现在一支烟该多好啊！……要得救，只需要相信，僧侣们不知道该怎么做，但莉迪亚·伊万诺芙娜伯爵夫人知道……为什么我的头这么重？是干邑白兰地的原因，还是这一切太奇怪了？无论如何，我想到目前为止我没有做过任何不合适的事情。但无论如何，现在问她是不行的。他们说他们让人祈祷。我只希望他们不要逼迫我！这未免太低能了。她正在读什么东西！但她的口音很好。兰道——别祖博夫——他是别祖博夫干什么？” 斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇突然意识到他的下颌不受控制地打了一个哈欠。他拉起胡须遮住哈欠，摇了摇头。但不久他就意识到自己快要睡着了，而且快要打鼾了。就在莉迪亚·伊万诺芙娜伯爵夫人的声音说“他睡着了”的时候，他才回过神来。斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇惊愕地开口，感到内疚和被抓住。但当他看到“他睡着了”这句话不是指他，而是指兰道时，他立刻就放心了。法国人和斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇都睡着了。但斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇睡着了，这会冒犯他们，他想（尽管他认为，即使是这样，也可能不是这样，因为一切看起来都很奇怪），而兰道睡着了，让他们非常高兴，尤其是莉迪亚·伊万诺芙娜伯爵夫人。

‘Mon ami,’ said Lidia Ivanovna, carefully holding the folds of her silk gown so as not to rustle, and in her excitement calling Karenin not Alexey Alexandrovitch, but ‘mon ami,’ ‘donnez-lui la main. Vous voyez? Sh!’ she hissed at the footman as he came in again. ‘Not at home.’
“我的朋友，”莉迪亚·伊万诺芙娜小心翼翼地抓着丝质长袍的褶皱，以免发出沙沙声，兴奋地叫卡列宁不是阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇，而是“我的朋友”，“donnez-lui la main”。你好么？嘘！”当仆人再次进来时，她对他发出嘶嘶声。 '不在家。'

The Frenchman was asleep, or pretending to be asleep, with his head on the back of his chair, and his moist hand, as it lay on his knee, made faint movements, as though trying to catch something. Alexey Alexandrovitch got up, tried to move carefully, but stumbled against the table, went up and laid his hand in the Frenchman’s hand. Stepan Arkadyevitch got up too, and opening his eyes wide, trying to wake himself up if he were asleep, he looked first at one and then at the other. It was all real. Stepan Arkadyevitch felt that his head was getting worse and worse.
法国人睡着了，或者假装睡着了，他的头靠在椅背上，湿漉漉的手放在膝盖上，做出微弱的动作，好像想抓住什么东西。阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇站起来，试图小心地移动，但被桌子绊倒了，他站起来，把手放在法国人的手里。斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇也站了起来，睁大了眼睛，试图在睡着时叫醒自己，他先看了一个，然后又看了另一个。这一切都是真实的。斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇感觉自己的头越来越糟。

‘Que la personne qui est arrivee la derniere, celle qui demande, qu’elle sorte! Qu’elle sorte!’ articulated the Frenchman, without opening his eyes.
‘Que la personne qui est comese la derniere, celle quidemande, qu'elle sorte! “Qu'elle sorte！”法国人没有睁开眼睛，清晰地说道。

‘Vous m’excuserez, mais vous voyez.... Revenez vers dix heures, encore mieux demain.’
“对不起，请原谅……Revenez vers dix heures，encore mieux demain。”

‘Qu’elle sorte!’ repeated the Frenchman impatiently.
“Qu'elle sorte！”法国人不耐烦地重复道。

‘C’est moi, n’est-ce pas?’ And receiving an answer in the affirmative, Stepan Arkadyevitch, forgetting the favor he had meant to ask of Lidia Ivanovna, and forgetting his sister’s affairs, caring for nothing, but filled with the sole desire to get away as soon as possible, went out on tiptoe and ran out into the street as though from a plague-stricken house. For a long while he chatted and joked with his cab-driver, trying to recover his spirits.
“这就是我，不是吗？”得到肯定的回答后，斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇忘记了他本想向莉迪亚·伊万诺芙娜请求的帮助，也忘记了他妹妹的事，他什么也不关心，却满心欢喜。唯一的愿望是尽快离开，他踮起脚尖，跑到街上，就像从一个遭受瘟疫袭击的房子里跑出来一样。他和出租车司机聊了很长时间，开玩笑，试图恢复精神。

At the French theater where he arrived for the last act, and afterwards at the Tatar restaurant after his champagne, Stepan Arkadyevitch felt a little refreshed in the atmosphere he was used to. But still he felt quite unlike himself all that evening.
在他到达最后一幕的法国剧院，以及喝完香槟后在鞑靼餐厅，斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇在他习惯的气氛中感到一丝清爽。但整个晚上他仍然感觉很不像自己。

On getting home to Pyotr Oblonsky’s, where he was staying, Stepan Arkadyevitch found a note from Betsy. She wrote to him that she was very anxious to finish their interrupted conversation, and begged him to come next day. He had scarcely read this note, and frowned at its contents, when he heard below the ponderous tramp of the servants, carrying something heavy.
回到彼得·奥布隆斯基住的家后，斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇发现了贝特西的一张纸条。她写信给他说，她非常渴望结束他们被打断的谈话，并恳求他第二天再来。他刚读完这张纸条，皱着眉头看着上面的内容，就听到下面传来仆人们沉重的脚步声，他们搬着一件很重的东西。

Stepan Arkadyevitch went out to look. It was the rejuvenated Pyotr Oblonsky. He was so drunk that he could not walk upstairs; but he told them to set him on his legs when he saw Stepan Arkadyevitch, and clinging to him, walked with him into his room and there began telling him how he had spent the evening, and fell asleep doing so.
斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇出去查看。这是恢复活力的彼得·奥布隆斯基。他喝得太醉了，无法上楼；但他让他们在看到斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇时把他放在腿上，然后紧紧地抱住他，陪他走进自己的房间，开始告诉他今晚是怎么度过的，然后就睡着了。

Stepan Arkadyevitch was in very low spirits, which happened rarely with him, and for a long while he could not go to sleep. Everything he could recall to his mind, everything was disgusting; but most disgusting of all, as if it were something shameful, was the memory of the evening he had spent at Countess Lidia Ivanovna’s.
斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇的情绪非常低落，这种情况在他身上很少发生，他很长一段时间都无法入睡。他所能回忆起的一切，一切都是令人厌恶的；一切都是令人作呕的。但最令人作呕的，似乎是一件可耻的事情，是他在莉迪亚·伊万诺夫娜伯爵夫人家度过的那个晚上的记忆。

Next day he received from Alexey Alexandrovitch a final answer, refusing to grant Anna’s divorce, and he understood that this decision was based on what the Frenchman had said in his real or pretended trance.
第二天，他收到了阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇的最终答复，拒绝批准安娜离婚，他明白这个决定是基于法国人在真实或假装的恍惚状态下所说的话。

Chapter 23
第23章

In order to carry through any undertaking in family life, there must necessarily be either complete division between the husband and wife, or loving agreement. When the relations of a couple are vacillating and neither one thing nor the other, no sort of enterprise can be undertaken.
为了完成家庭生活中的任何事业，夫妻之间必须要么完全分开，要么恩爱一致。当一对夫妇的关系摇摆不定，一事无成时，任何事业都无法开展。

Many families remain for years in the same place, though both husband and wife are sick of it, simply because there is neither complete division nor agreement between them.
许多家庭在同一个地方呆了很多年，尽管丈夫和妻子都厌倦了，仅仅是因为他们之间既没有完全的分歧，也没有达成一致。

Both Vronsky and Anna felt life in Moscow insupportable in the heat and dust, when the spring sunshine was followed by the glare of summer, and all the trees in the boulevards had long since been in full leaf, and the leaves were covered with dust. But they did not go back to Vozdvizhenskoe, as they had arranged to do long before; they went on staying in Moscow, though they both loathed it, because of late there had been no agreement between them.
渥伦斯基和安娜都觉得莫斯科的生活在炎热和灰尘中难以忍受，春天的阳光过后就是夏天的刺眼，林荫大道上的所有树木早已长满了叶子，叶子上布满了灰尘。但他们并没有像很久以前就安排好的那样返回沃兹德维任斯科。他们继续留在莫斯科，尽管他们都讨厌它，因为最近他们之间没有达成协议。

The irritability that kept them apart had no external cause, and all efforts to come to an understanding intensified it, instead of removing it. It was an inner irritation, grounded in her mind on the conviction that his love had grown less; in his, on regret that he had put himself for her sake in a difficult position, which she, instead of lightening, made still more difficult. Neither of them gave full utterance to their sense of grievance, but they considered each other in the wrong, and tried on every pretext to prove this to one another.
让他们分开的烦躁情绪没有任何外部原因，所有为达成谅解所做的努力都加剧了这种烦躁情绪，而不是消除它。这是一种内心的恼怒，因为她坚信他的爱已经变少了。他后悔自己为了她而让自己陷入了困境，而她非但没有减轻困境，反而让处境变得更加困难。两人都没有充分表达自己的不满，但都认为对方有错，并想方设法向对方证明这一点。

In her eyes the whole of him, with all his habits, ideas, desires, with all his spiritual and physical temperament, was one thing—love for women, and that love, she felt, ought to be entirely concentrated on her alone. That love was less; consequently, as she reasoned, he must have transferred part of his love to other women or to another woman—and she was jealous. She was jealous not of any particular woman but of the decrease of his love. Not having got an object for her jealousy, she was on the lookout for it. At the slightest hint she transferred her jealousy from one object to another. At one time she was jealous of those low women with whom he might so easily renew his old bachelor ties; then she was jealous of the society women he might meet; then she was jealous of the imaginary girl whom he might want to marry, for whose sake he would break with her. And this last form of jealousy tortured her most of all, especially as he had unwarily told her, in a moment of frankness, that his mother knew him so little that she had had the audacity to try and persuade him to marry the young Princess Sorokina.
在她眼里，他的全部，包括他所有的习惯、想法、欲望，以及他所有的精神和身体气质，都是一回事——对女人的爱，而她觉得，这种爱应该完全集中在她身上。那种爱少了；因此，正如她推断的那样，他一定把他的部分爱转移给了其他女人或另一个女人——而她很嫉妒。她嫉妒的不是某个特定的女人，而是他的爱的减少。由于没有找到嫉妒的对象，她一直在寻找它。只要有最轻微的暗示，她就把嫉妒从一个物体转移到另一个物体上。有一段时间，她嫉妒那些低贱的女人，他可以很容易地与她们恢复旧的单身关系。然后她嫉妒他可能遇到的社交女性；然后她嫉妒他可能想娶的想象中的女孩，为了她他会和她分手。而这最后一种嫉妒对她的折磨最为严重，尤其是当他一时坦白地不经意地告诉她，他的母亲对他知之甚少，以至于她竟然厚颜无耻地试图说服他娶年轻的索罗基娜公主。 。

And being jealous of him, Anna was indignant against him and found grounds for indignation in everything. For everything that was difficult in her position she blamed him. The agonizing condition of suspense she had passed in Moscow, the tardiness and indecision of Alexey Alexandrovitch, her solitude—she put it all down to him. If he had loved her he would have seen all the bitterness of her position, and would have rescued her from it. For her being in Moscow and not in the country, he was to blame too. He could not live buried in the country as she would have liked to do. He must have society, and he had put her in this awful position, the bitterness of which he would not see. And again, it was his fault that she was forever separated from her son.
安娜嫉妒他，对他感到愤怒，并在一切事情上找到愤怒的理由。对于她处境中遇到的一切困难，她都归咎于他。她在莫斯科经历的悬而未决的痛苦状态，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇的迟到和优柔寡断，她的孤独——她把这一切都归咎于他。如果他爱她，他就会看到她处境的所有痛苦，并将把她从困境中拯救出来。她在莫斯科而不是在国内，他也有责任。他不能像她希望的那样埋葬在乡下。他必须社交，而他却把她置于如此可怕的境地，而他却看不到其中的痛苦。再说一次，她与儿子永远分离都是他的错。

Even the rare moments of tenderness that came from time to time did not soothe her; in his tenderness now she saw a shade of complacency, of self-confidence, which had not been of old, and which exasperated her.
即使是时不时出现的罕见的温柔时刻也无法让她平静下来。现在，在他的温柔中，她看到了一丝自满和自信，这在以前是不存在的，这让她很恼火。

It was dusk. Anna was alone, and waiting for him to come back from a bachelor dinner. She walked up and down in his study (the room where the noise from the street was least heard), and thought over every detail of their yesterday’s quarrel. Going back from the well-remembered, offensive words of the quarrel to what had been the ground of it, she arrived at last at its origin. For a long while she could hardly believe that their dissension had arisen from a conversation so inoffensive, of so little moment to either. But so it actually had been. It all arose from his laughing at the girls’ high schools, declaring they were useless, while she defended them. He had spoken slightingly of women’s education in general, and had said that Hannah, Anna’s English protegee, had not the slightest need to know anything of physics.
当时已是黄昏。安娜独自一人，等待他从单身晚宴回来。她在他的书房（最听不到街上噪音的房间）里走来走去，思考着昨天争吵的每一个细节。她从那次争吵中那句记忆犹新、冒犯性的话语回到争吵的理由，终于找到了争吵的根源。有很长一段时间，她简直不敢相信他们的争吵是由于一场如此无伤大雅、对双方来说都不重要的谈话而引起的。但事实确实如此。这一切都源于他嘲笑女子高中，宣称她们毫无用处，而她则为她们辩护。他总体上对女性教育持轻蔑态度，并表示安娜的英国门生汉娜根本不需要了解任何物理知识。

This irritated Anna. She saw in this a contemptuous reference to her occupations. And she bethought her of a phrase to pay him back for the pain he had given her. ‘I don’t expect you to understand me, my feelings, as anyone who loved me might, but simple delicacy I did expect,’ she said.
这激怒了安娜。她从中看到了对她职业的轻蔑提及。她想到了一句话来报答他给她带来的痛苦。 “我不指望你能像任何爱我的人那样理解我、我的感受，但我确实期望简单的温柔，”她说。

And he had actually flushed with vexation, and had said something unpleasant. She could not recall her answer, but at that point, with an unmistakable desire to wound her too, he had said:
而且他居然气得满脸通红，还说了一些难听的话。她记不起自己的回答，但就在那时，带着明显也想伤害她的愿望，他说道：

‘I feel no interest in your infatuation over this girl, that’s true, because I see it’s unnatural.’
“我对你对这个女孩的迷恋不感兴趣，这是事实，因为我认为这是不自然的。”

The cruelty with which he shattered the world she had built up for herself so laboriously to enable her to endure her hard life, the injustice with which he had accused her of affectation, of artificiality, aroused her.
他用残酷的手段粉碎了她辛辛苦苦为自己建立起来的世界，使她能够忍受艰苦的生活，他用不公正的手段指责她矫情、做作，这些都激起了她的警觉。

‘I am very sorry that nothing but what’s coarse and material is comprehensible and natural to you,’ she said and walked out of the room.
“我很抱歉，除了粗俗和物质的东西之外，没有什么东西对你来说是可以理解和自然的，”她说着走出了房间。

When he had come in to her yesterday evening, they had not referred to the quarrel, but both felt that the quarrel had been smoothed over, but was not at an end.
昨天晚上他来找她时，他们并没有提到这场争吵，但两人都觉得争吵已经平息，但还没有结束。

Today he had not been at home all day, and she felt so lonely and wretched in being on bad terms with him that she wanted to forget it all, to forgive him, and be reconciled with him; she wanted to throw the blame on herself and to justify him.
今天他一整天都不在家，与他关系不好，她感到孤独和凄凉，她想忘记这一切，原谅他，与他和好；她想把责任推到自己身上，为他辩解。

‘I am myself to blame. I’m irritable, I’m insanely jealous. I will make it up with him, and we’ll go away to the country; there I shall be more at peace.’
‘这都怪我自己。我很烦躁，我嫉妒得发疯。我会和他和好，我们一起去乡下；在那里我会更加平静。

‘Unnatural!’ She suddenly recalled the word that had stung her most of all, not so much the word itself as the intent to wound her with which it was said. ‘I know what he meant; he meant— unnatural, not loving my own daughter, to love another person’s child. What does he know of love for children, of my love for Seryozha, whom I’ve sacrificed for him? But that wish to wound me! No, he loves another woman, it must be so.’
“不自然！”她突然想起最刺痛她的那个词，与其说是这个词本身，不如说这句话的意图是要伤害她。 “我知道他的意思；他的意思是——不自然，不爱自己的女儿，却去爱别人的孩子。他对孩子们的爱，对我为他牺牲的谢廖扎的爱了解多少？但那个愿望却伤害了我！不，他爱着另一个女人，一定是这样。”

And perceiving that, while trying to regain her peace of mind, she had gone round the same circle that she had been round so often before, and had come back to her former state of exasperation, she was horrified at herself. ‘Can it be impossible? Can it be beyond me to control myself?’ she said to herself, and began again from the beginning. ‘He’s truthful, he’s honest, he loves me. I love him, and in a few days the divorce will come. What more do I want? I want peace of mind and trust, and I will take the blame on myself. Yes, now when he comes in, I will tell him I was wrong, though I was not wrong, and we will go away tomorrow.’
当她意识到自己在努力恢复内心平静的同时，却又重复了以前经常绕着的圈子，又回到了以前的愤怒状态，她对自己感到震惊。 ‘这不可能吗？难道我无法控制自己吗？”她自言自语道，然后又从头开始。 “他很诚实，他很诚实，他爱我。我爱他，过几天就要离婚了。我还想要什么？我想要内心的平静和信任，我会把责任揽在自己身上。是的，现在当他进来时，我会告诉他我错了，尽管我没有错，然后我们明天就走。

And to escape thinking any more, and being overcome by irritability, she rang, and ordered the boxes to be brought up for packing their things for the country.
为了不再多想，也不再烦躁，她打了电话，命令把箱子搬上来，为国家收拾行李。

At ten o’clock Vronsky came in.
十点钟渥伦斯基进来了。

Chapter 24
第24章

‘Well, was it nice?’ she asked, coming out to meet him with a penitent and meek expression.
“嗯，这样好吗？”她问，带着悔罪和温顺的表情出来迎接他。

‘Just as usual,’ he answered, seeing at a glance that she was in one of her good moods. He was used by now to these transitions, and he was particularly glad to see it today, as he was in a specially good humor himself.
“和平常一样。”他回答道，一眼就看出她心情很好。他现在已经习惯了这些转变，今天看到这一点他特别高兴，因为他自己的心情也特别好。

‘What do I see? Come, that’s good!’ he said, pointing to the boxes in the passage.
‘我看到了什么？来吧，那太好了！”他指着过道里的盒子说道。

‘Yes, we must go. I went out for a drive, and it was so fine I longed to be in the country. There’s nothing to keep you, is there?’
‘是的，我们必须走了。我开车出去兜风，天气太好了，我渴望去乡下。没有什么可以留住你，不是吗？

‘It’s the one thing I desire. I’ll be back directly, and we’ll talk it over; I only want to change my coat. Order some tea.’
‘这是我所渴望的一件事。我会直接回来，我们再商量；我只想换件外套。点些茶。

And he went into his room.
然后他走进了自己的房间。

There was something mortifying in the way he had said ‘Come, that’s good,’ as one says to a child when it leaves off being naughty, and still more mortifying was the contrast between her penitent and his self-confident tone; and for one instant she felt the lust of strife rising up in her again, but making an effort she conquered it, and met Vronsky as good-humoredly as before.
他说“来吧，这很好”的方式有些令人羞愧，就像一个孩子停止顽皮时对他说的那样，更令人羞愧的是她的忏悔和他自信的语气之间的对比；有一刹那，她感到内心再次升起了争斗的欲望，但她努力克服了它，并像以前一样幽默地见到了渥伦斯基。

When he came in she told him, partly repeating phrases she had prepared beforehand, how she had spent the day, and her plans for going away.
当他进来时，她告诉他，部分重复了她事先准备好的短语，她是如何度过这一天的，以及她离开的计划。

‘You know it came to me almost like an inspiration,’ she said. ‘Why wait here for the divorce? Won’t it be just the same in the country? I can’t wait any longer! I don’t want to go on hoping, I don’t want to hear anything about the divorce. I have made up my mind it shall not have any more influence on my life. Do you agree?’
“你知道这对我来说几乎就像一种灵感，”她说。 ‘为什么要在这里等离婚？国内不也一样吗？我不能再等了！我不想继续希望，我不想听到任何关于离婚的消息。我已经下定决心，不再对我的生活产生任何影响。你同意？'

‘Oh, yes!’ he said, glancing uneasily at her excited face.
“哦，是的！”他不安地看着她兴奋的脸说道。

‘What did you do? Who was there?’ she said, after a pause.
'你做了什么？谁在那儿？”她停顿了一下后问道。

Vronsky mentioned the names of the guests. ‘The dinner was first rate, and the boat race, and it was all pleasant enough, but in Moscow they can never do anything without something ridicule. A lady of a sort appeared on the scene, teacher of swimming to the Queen of Sweden, and gave us an exhibition of her skill.’
渥伦斯基提到了客人的名字。 “晚餐是一流的，还有划船比赛，这一切都很愉快，但在莫斯科，他们做任何事都免不了受到嘲笑。现场出现了一位女士，她是瑞典女王的游泳老师，向我们展示了她的技巧。

‘How? did she swim?’ asked Anna, frowning.
'如何？她会游泳吗？”安娜皱着眉头问道。

‘In an absurd red costume de natation; she was old and hideous too. So when shall we go?’
“穿着荒唐的红色民族服装；她又老又丑。那么我们什么时候去呢？

‘What an absurd fancy! Why, did she swim in some special way, then?’ said Anna, not answering.
‘多么荒唐的幻想啊！那么，为什么她会以某种特殊的方式游泳呢？”安娜没有回答，问道。

‘There was absolutely nothing in it. That’s just what I say, it was awfully stupid. Well, then, when do you think of going?’
‘里面绝对什么也没有。我就是这么说的，这太愚蠢了。好吧，那么，你打算什么时候去？

Anna shook her head as though trying to drive away some unpleasant idea.
安娜摇摇头，似乎想要赶走某种不愉快的想法。

‘When? Why, the sooner the better! By tomorrow we shan’t be ready. The day after tomorrow.’
'什么时候？为什么，越早越好！到明天我们还没有准备好。后天。”

‘Yes...oh, no, wait a minute! The day after to-morrow’s Sunday, I have to be at maman’s,’ said Vronsky, embarrassed, because as soon as he uttered his mother’s name he was aware of her intent, suspicious eyes. His embarrassment confirmed her suspicion. She flushed hotly and drew away from him. It was now not the Queen of Sweden’s swimming-mistress who filled Anna’s imagination, but the young Princess Sorokina. She was staying in a village near Moscow with Countess Vronskaya.
‘是的……哦，不，等一下！明天的周日，我必须去妈妈家。”弗龙斯基不好意思地说，因为他一说出母亲的名字，就注意到她专注而怀疑的眼神。他的尴尬证实了她的怀疑。她满脸通红，从他身边退开。现在充满安娜想象力的不再是瑞典女王的游泳情妇，而是年轻的索罗基娜公主。她和渥伦斯卡娅伯爵夫人住在莫斯科附近的一个村庄。

‘Can’t you go tomorrow?’ she said.
“你明天不能去吗？”她说。

‘Well, no! The deeds and the money for the business I’m going there for I can’t get by tomorrow,’ he answered.
‘嗯，不！我明天就拿不到我去那里做的生意和生意的钱了，”他回答道。

‘If so, we won’t go at all.’
“如果是这样，我们根本不会去。”

‘But why so?’
“但是为什么会这样呢？”

‘I shall not go later. Monday or never!’
‘我以后就不去了。周一或永远！

‘What for?’ said Vronsky, as though in amazement. ‘Why, there’s no meaning in it!’
“为什么？”渥伦斯基问道，似乎很惊讶。 “为什么，这没有任何意义！”

‘There’s no meaning in it to you, because you care nothing for me. You don’t care to understand my life. The one thing that I cared for here was Hannah. You say it’s affectation. Why, you said yesterday that I don’t love my daughter, that I love this English girl, that it’s unnatural. I should like to know what life there is for me that could be natural!’
‘这对你来说毫无意义，因为你根本不在乎我。你不在乎了解我的生活。我在这里关心的一件事是汉娜。你说这是矫情。为什么，你昨天说我不爱我的女儿，我爱这个英国女孩，这是不自然的。我想知道对我来说什么样的生活才是自然的！

For an instant she had a clear vision of what she was doing, and was horrified at how she had fallen away from her resolution. But even though she knew it was her own ruin, she could not restrain herself, could not keep herself from proving to him that he was wrong, could not give way to him.
一瞬间，她对自己正在做的事情有了清晰的认识，并为自己背离了自己的决心而感到震惊。但尽管她知道这是自己的毁灭，但她却无法克制自己，无法阻止自己向他证明他错了，无法向他让步。

‘I never said that; I said I did not sympathize with this sudden passion.’
'我从没有说过;我说我不同情这种突然的热情。

‘How is it, though you boast of your straightforwardness, you don’t tell the truth?’
“怎么，你虽然口口声声说自己直率，但说的却不是实话？”

‘I never boast, and I never tell lies,’ he said slowly, restraining his rising anger. ‘It’s a great pity if you can’t respect...’
“我从不自吹自擂，也从不说谎。”他缓缓说道，抑制着心中升起的怒火。 “如果你不能尊重……那真是太可惜了……”

‘Respect was invented to cover the empty place where love should be. And if you don’t love me any more, it would be better and more honest to say so.’
‘尊重的发明是为了填补爱应该存在的空缺。如果你不再爱我了，最好更诚实地说出来。”

‘No, this is becoming unbearable!’ cried Vronsky, getting up from his chair; and stopping short, facing her, he said, speaking deliberately: ‘What do you try my patience for?’ looking as though he might have said much more, but was restraining himself. ‘It has limits.’
“不，这已经让人难以忍受了！”渥伦斯基从椅子上站起来喊道。他突然停下来，面向她，故意说道：“你为什么要考验我的耐心？”看起来他似乎还可以说更多，但正在克制自己。 “它有局限性。”

‘What do you mean by that?’ she cried, looking with terror at the undisguised hatred in his whole face, and especially in his cruel, menacing eyes.
“你这是什么意思？”她惊恐地看着他整张脸上毫不掩饰的仇恨，尤其是他残忍、险恶的眼睛。

‘I mean to say...’ he was beginning, but he checked himself. ‘I must ask what it is you want of me?’
“我的意思是……”他正要开口，但又克制住了自己。 “我必须问你想要我做什么？”

‘What can I want? All I can want is that you should not desert me, as you think of doing,’ she said, understanding all he had not uttered. ‘But that I don’t want; that’s secondary. I want love, and there is none. So then all is over.’
‘我能想要什么？我所想要的只是你不应该抛弃我，正如你所想的那样。”她说，理解他没有说出来的一切。 ‘但我不想要；那是次要的。我想要爱情，却没有。那么一切就都结束了。

She turned towards the door.
她转身朝门口走去。

‘Stop! sto-op!’ said Vronsky, with no change in the gloomy lines of his brows, though he held her by the hand. ‘What is it all about? I said that we must put off going for three days, and on that you told me I was lying, that I was not an honorable man.’
'停止！站住！”渥伦斯基说道，尽管他握住了她的手，但他阴沉的眉毛没有任何变化。 '这是什么一回事呢？我说我们必须推迟三天去，而你却告诉我我在撒谎，说我不是一个正直的人。

‘Yes, and I repeat that the man who reproaches me with having sacrificed everything for me,’ she said, recalling the words of a still earlier quarrel, ‘that he’s worse than a dishonorable man— he’s a heartless man.’
“是的，我再说一遍，那个指责我为我牺牲了一切的人，”她回忆起早些时候的一次争吵时说道，“他比一个不名誉的人更糟糕——他是一个无情的人。”

‘Oh, there are limits to endurance!’ he cried, and hastily let go her hand.
“哦，忍耐是有限度的！”他喊道，并急忙松开了她的手。

‘He hates me, that’s clear,’ she thought, and in silence, without looking round, she walked with faltering steps out of the room. ‘He loves another woman, that’s even clearer,’ she said to herself as she went into her own room. ‘I want love, and there is none. So, then, all is over.’ She repeated the words she had said, ‘and it must be ended.’
“他恨我，这很明显，”她想，然后默默地，没有回头看，迈着蹒跚的步子走出了房间。 “他爱着另一个女人，这一点更清楚。”当她走进自己的房间时，她自言自语道。 ‘我想要爱，但没有。那么，一切都结束了。”她重复了自己说过的话，“一切都必须结束。”

‘But how?’ she asked herself, and she sat down in a low chair before the looking glass.
“但是怎么办呢？”她问自己，然后在镜子前的一张矮椅上坐下。

Thoughts of where she would go now, whether to the aunt who had brought her up, to Dolly, or simply alone abroad, and of what he was doing now alone in his study; whether this was the final quarrel, or whether reconciliation were still possible; and of what all her old friends at Petersburg would say of her now; and of how Alexey Alexandrovitch would look at it, and many other ideas of what would happen now after this rupture, came into her head; but she did not give herself up to them with all her heart. At the bottom of her heart was some obscure idea that alone interested her, but she could not get clear sight of it. Thinking once more of Alexey Alexandrovitch, she recalled the time of her illness after her confinement, and the feeling which never left her at that time. ‘Why didn’t I die?’ and the words and the feeling of that time came back to her. And all at once she knew what was in her soul. Yes, it was that idea which alone solved all. ‘Yes, to die!... And the shame and disgrace of Alexey Alexandrovitch and of Seryozha, and my awful shame, it will all be saved by death. To die! and he will feel remorse; will be sorry; will love me; he will suffer on my account.’ With the trace of a smile of commiseration for herself she sat down in the armchair, taking off and putting on the rings on her left hand, vividly picturing from different sides his feelings after her death.
想到她现在要去哪里，无论是去抚养她长大的阿姨，多莉，还是独自一人在国外，以及他现在独自在书房里做什么；这是否是最后一次争吵，或者还有和解的可能吗？以及她在彼得堡的所有老朋友现在会如何评价她；她的脑海中浮现出阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇将如何看待这件事，以及关于这次决裂之后将会发生什么的许多其他想法。但她并没有全心全意地向他们屈服。她的心底有一些隐晦的想法，只有她感兴趣，但又看不清楚。她再次想起阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇，想起了她出院后生病的那段时间，以及当时从未离开过她的感觉。 “我为什么没有死？”她又想起了当时的话语和感觉。突然间，她知道了自己的灵魂里藏着什么。是的，正是这个想法解决了一切。 “是的，去死吧！……阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇和谢廖扎的耻辱和耻辱，以及我可怕的耻辱，都将通过死亡来拯救。去死！他会感到悔恨；会后悔；会爱我；她带着一丝怜悯的微笑坐在扶手椅上，摘下又戴上左手上的戒指，从不同的侧面生动地描绘了他在她死后的感受。

Approaching footsteps—his steps—distracted her attention. As though absorbed in the arrangement of her rings, she did not even turn to him.
接近的脚步声——他的脚步声——分散了她的注意力。仿佛全神贯注于排列戒指，她甚至没有转向他。

He went up to her, and taking her by the hand, said softly:
他走到她面前，握住她的手，轻声道：

‘Anna, we’ll go the day after tomorrow, if you like. I agree to everything.’
“安娜，如果你愿意的话，我们后天就去。”我同意一切。

She did not speak.
她没有说话。

‘What is it?’ he urged.
“那是什么？”他催促道。

‘You know,’ she said, and at the same instant, unable to restrain herself any longer, she burst into sobs.
“你知道，”她说，同时，她再也无法克制自己，突然抽泣起来。

‘Cast me off!’ she articulated between her sobs. ‘I’ll go away tomorrow...I’ll do more. What am I? An immoral woman! A stone round your neck. I don’t want to make you wretched, I don’t want to! I’ll set you free. You don’t love me; you love someone else!’
“把我扔掉！”她抽泣着说道。 “我明天就会离开……我会做更多的事情。我是什么？一个不道德的女人！脖子上挂着一块石头。我不想让你难过，我不想！我会让你自由。你不爱我；你爱别人了！

Vronsky besought her to be calm, and declared that there was no trace of foundation for her jealousy; that he had never ceased, and never would cease, to love her; that he loved her more than ever.
渥伦斯基恳求她保持冷静，并宣称她的嫉妒毫无根据。他从未停止过，也永远不会停止爱她；他比以往任何时候都更爱她。

‘Anna, why distress yourself and me so?’ he said to her, kissing her hands. There was tenderness now in his face, and she fancied she caught the sound of tears in his voice, and she felt them wet on her hand. And instantly Anna’s despairing jealousy changed to a despairing passion of tenderness. She put her arms round him, and covered with kisses his head, his neck, his hands.
“安娜，为什么让你和我如此痛苦？”他一边亲吻她的双手，一边对她说道。他的脸上现在充满了温柔，她觉得自己听出了他声音中的泪水，她感觉它们在她的手上湿漉漉的。安娜绝望的嫉妒立刻变成了绝望的温柔。她用双臂搂住他，亲吻他的头、脖子和双手。

Chapter 25
第25章

Feeling that the reconciliation was complete, Anna set eagerly to work in the morning preparing for their departure. Though it was not settled whether they should go on Monday or Tuesday, as they had each given way to the other, Anna packed busily, feeling absolutely indifferent whether they went a day earlier or later. She was standing in her room over an open box, taking things out of it, when he came in to see her earlier than usual, dressed to go out.
感觉到和解已经完成，安娜早上就急切地开始工作，为他们的出发做准备。虽然周一还是周二去还没有定下来，因为已经让路了，但安娜还是忙着收拾行李，早一天去还是晚一天去都无所谓。她正站在房间里一个打开的盒子前，从里面取出东西，这时他比平时更早地进来见她，穿好衣服准备出去。

‘I’m going off at once to see maman; she can send me the money by Yegorov. And I shall be ready to go tomorrow,’ he said.
“我马上就去见妈妈；她可以通过叶戈罗夫把钱寄给我。我明天就准备出发了，”他说。

Though she was in such a good mood, the thought of his visit to his mother’s gave her a pang.
虽然她心情很好，但一想到他要去母亲家，她就心痛不已。

‘No, I shan’t be ready by then myself,’ she said; and at once reflected, ‘so then it was possible to arrange to do as I wished.’ ‘No, do as you meant to do. Go into the dining room, I’m coming directly. It’s only to turn out those things that aren’t wanted,’ she said, putting something more on the heap of frippery that lay in Annushka’s arms.
“不，到那时我自己还没有准备好，”她说。 ”然后立刻想道，“那么就可以按照我的意愿安排了。”“不，按照你的意思去做。进餐厅吧，我直接来。只是为了把那些不想要的东西变成现实。”她说着，又往安努舒卡怀里的一堆破烂东西上放了一些东西。

Vronsky was eating his beefsteak when she came into the diningroom.
当她走进餐厅时，渥伦斯基正在吃牛排。

‘You wouldn’t believe how distasteful these rooms have become to me,’ she said, sitting down beside him to her coffee. ‘There’s nothing more awful than these chambres garnies. There’s no individuality in them, no soul. These clocks, and curtains, and, worst of all, the wallpapers—they’re a nightmare. I think of Vozdvizhenskoe as the promised land. You’re not sending the horses off yet?’
“你不会相信这些房间对我来说变得多么令人厌恶，”她一边说，一边在他旁边坐下来喝咖啡。 “没有什么比这些房间更可怕的了。他们没有个性，没有灵魂。这些时钟、窗帘，最糟糕的是壁纸——它们简直就是一场噩梦。我认为 Vozdvizhenskoe 是应许之地。你还不把马送走吗？

‘No, they will come after us. Where are you going to?’
‘不，他们会来追我们的。你去哪儿？'

‘I wanted to go to Wilson’s to take some dresses to her. So it’s really to be tomorrow?’ she said in a cheerful voice; but suddenly her face changed.
“我想去威尔逊家给她带一些衣服。那么真的是明天吗？”她用愉快的声音说道。但突然她的脸色变了。

Vronsky’s valet came in to ask him to sign a receipt for a telegram from Petersburg. There was nothing out of the way in Vronsky’s getting a telegram, but he said, as though anxious to conceal something from her, that the receipt was in his study, and he turned hurriedly to her.
渥伦斯基的贴身男仆进来请他签署一份从彼得堡发来的电报收据。渥伦斯基收到电报并没有什么困难，但他说，好像急于向她隐瞒什么，收据在他的书房里，然后他急忙转向她。

‘By tomorrow, without fail, I will finish it all.’
“到明天，我一定会完成这一切。”

‘From whom is the telegram?’ she asked, not hearing him.
“电报是谁发来的？”她问道，没有听见他的声音。

‘From Stiva,’ he answered reluctantly.
“来自斯蒂瓦，”他不情愿地回答。

‘Why didn’t you show it to me? What secret can there be between Stiva and me?’
‘你为什么不给我看？我和斯蒂瓦之间到底有什么秘密？

Vronsky called the valet back, and told him to bring the telegram.
渥伦斯基叫来了男仆，让他把电报带来。

‘I didn’t want to show it to you, because Stiva has such a passion for telegraphing: why telegraph when nothing is settled?’
“我不想给你看，因为斯蒂瓦对电报如此热衷：为什么在一切都没有解决的情况下还要电报呢？”

‘About the divorce?’
“关于离婚的事？”

‘Yes; but he says he has not been able to come at anything yet. He has promised a decisive answer in a day or two. But here it is; read it.’
'是的;但他说他还没有取得任何成果。他承诺在一两天内给出决定性答复。但它就在这里；阅读。'

With trembling hands Anna took the telegram, and read what Vronsky had told her. At the end was added: ‘Little hope; but I will do everything possible and impossible.’
安娜用颤抖的双手接过电报，读了渥伦斯基告诉她的内容。最后补充道：“希望渺茫；但我会尽一切可能和不可能的事情。”

‘I said yesterday that it’s absolutely nothing to me when I get, or whether I never get, a divorce,’ she said, flushing crimson. ‘There was not the slightest necessity to hide it from me.’ ‘So he may hide and does hide his correspondence with women from me,’ she thought.
“我昨天说过，无论我是否离婚，对我来说绝对没有什么关系，”她满脸通红地说。 “没有丝毫必要向我隐瞒。”“所以他可能并且确实向我隐瞒了他与女人的通信，”她想。

‘Yashvin meant to come this morning with Voytov,’ said Vronsky; ‘I believe he’s won from Pyevtsov all and more than he can pay, about sixty thousand.’
“亚什温打算今天早上和沃伊托夫一起来，”渥伦斯基说。 “我相信他从皮耶夫佐夫那里赢得了全部，而且超出了他所能支付的金额，大约有六万。”

‘No,’ she said, irritated by his so obviously showing by this change of subject that he was irritated, ‘why did you suppose that this news would affect me so, that you must even try to hide it? I said I don’t want to consider it, and I should have liked you to care as little about it as I do.’
“不，”她说，她对他如此明显地表现出这样的话题转变感到恼火，“为什么你认为这个消息会对我产生如此大的影响，你甚至必须试图隐瞒它？我说我不想考虑它，我希望你像我一样不关心它。

‘I care about it because I like definiteness,’ he said.
“我关心它，因为我喜欢明确性，”他说。

‘Definiteness is not in the form but the love,’ she said, more and more irritated, not by his words, but by the tone of cool composure in which he spoke. ‘What do you want it for?’
“确定性不在于形式，而在于爱。”她说，她越来越恼火，不是因为他的话，而是因为他说话时冷静镇静的语气。 “你想要它做什么？”

‘My God! love again,’ he thought, frowning.
'我的上帝！又爱了，”他皱着眉头想。

‘Oh, you know what for; for your sake and your children’s in the future.’
‘哦，你知道为什么；为了你和你孩子的未来。”

‘There won’t be children in the future.’
“以后不会有孩子了。”

‘That’s a great pity,’ he said.
“这是一个很大的遗憾，”他说。

‘You want it for the children’s sake, but you don’t think of me?’ she said, quite forgetting or not having heard that he had said, ‘for your sake and the children’s.’
“你想要它是为了孩子们，但你不想我吗？”她说，完全忘记了或者没有听到他说过，“为了你和孩子们的缘故。”

The question of the possibility of having children had long been a subject of dispute and irritation to her. His desire to have children she interpreted as a proof he did not prize her beauty.
长期以来，生孩子的问题一直是她争论和烦恼的话题。她将他想要孩子的愿望解释为他不珍惜她的美貌的证据。

‘Oh, I said: for your sake. Above all for your sake,’ he repeated, frowning as though in pain, ‘because I am certain that the greater part of your irritability comes from the indefiniteness of the position.’
‘哦，我说：为了你。最重要的是为了你，”他重复道，皱着眉头，仿佛很痛苦，“因为我确信你的烦躁大部分来自于这个职位的不确定性。”

‘Yes, now he has laid aside all pretense, and all his cold hatred for me is apparent,’ she thought, not hearing his words, but watching with terror the cold, cruel judge who looked mocking her out of his eyes.
“是的，现在他已经抛开了所有的伪装，他对我的所有冷酷的仇恨都显而易见了，”她想道，没有听到他的话，而是惊恐地看着那个冷酷无情的法官，他的眼神里满是嘲笑她的表情。

‘The cause is not that,’ she said, ‘and, indeed, I don’t see how the cause of my irritability, as you call it, can be that I am completely in your power. What indefiniteness is there in the position? on the contrary...’
“原因不是这个，”她说，“事实上，我不明白我的烦躁（正如你所说的那样）的原因怎么可能是因为我完全在你的掌控之中。这个职位有什么不确定性？相反...'

‘I am very sorry that you don’t care to understand,’ he interrupted, obstinately anxious to give utterance to his thought. ‘The indefiniteness consists in your imagining that I am free.’
“我很抱歉你不愿意理解，”他打断道，固执地渴望说出自己的想法。 “不确定性在于你想象我是自由的。”

‘On that score you can set your mind quite at rest,’ she said, and turning away from him, she began drinking her coffee.
“从这一点来看，你可以放心了，”她说，转身离开他，开始喝咖啡。

She lifted her cup, with her little finger held apart, and put it to her lips. After drinking a few sips she glanced at him, and by his expression, she saw clearly that he was repelled by her hand, and her gesture, and the sound made by her lips.
她张开小指，举起杯子，放到唇边。喝了几口，她看了他一眼，从他的表情中，她清楚地看出，他对她的手、她的手势、她的嘴唇发出的声音感到厌恶。

‘I don’t care in the least what your mother thinks, and what match she wants to make for you,’ she said, putting the cup down with a shaking hand.
“我根本不在乎你妈妈怎么想，也不在乎她想给你做什么样的搭配，”她一边说，一边用颤抖的手放下杯子。

‘But we are not talking about that.’
“但我们不是在谈论这个。”

‘Yes, that’s just what we are talking about. And let me tell you that a heartless woman, whether she’s old or not old, your mother or anyone else, is of no consequence to me, and I would not consent to know her.’
“是的，这正是我们正在谈论的。让我告诉你，一个无情的女人，无论她老不老，无论她是你母亲还是其他任何人，对我来说都没有关系，我不会同意认识她。

‘Anna, I beg you not to speak disrespectfully of my mother.’
“安娜，我请求你不要对我母亲说不敬的话。”

‘A woman whose heart does not tell her where her son’s happiness and honor lie has no heart.’
“如果一个女人的心不告诉她儿子的幸福和荣誉在哪里，她就没有心。”

‘I repeat my request that you will not speak disrespectfully of my mother, whom I respect,’ he said, raising his voice and looking sternly at her.
“我再次请求你不要对我的母亲说不敬的话，我尊敬她，”他提高了声音，严厉地看着她。

She did not answer. Looking intently at him, at his face, his hands, she recalled all the details of their reconciliation the previous day, and his passionate caresses. ‘There, just such caresses he has lavished, and will lavish, and longs to lavish on other women!’ she thought.
她没有回答。她专注地看着他，看着他的脸，他的手，想起了前一天他们和解的所有细节，还有他热情的爱抚。 “他已经、将要、并且渴望对其他女人给予如此多的爱抚！”她想。

‘You don’t love your mother. That’s all talk, and talk, and talk!’ she said, looking at him with hatred in her eyes.
‘你不爱你的母亲。这些都是空谈，空谈，空谈！”她说道，眼中充满仇恨。

‘Even if so, you must...’
「就算是这样，你也必须……」

‘Must decide, and I have decided,’ she said, and she would have gone away, but at that moment Yashvin walked into the room. Anna greeted him and remained.
“必须决定，我已经决定了，”她说，然后她就要走开，但就在那时，亚什文走进了房间。安娜向他打招呼，然后留下来。

Why, when there was a tempest in her soul, and she felt she was standing at a turning point in her life, which might have fearful consequences—why, at that minute, she had to keep up appearances before an outsider, who sooner or later must know it all—she did not know. But at once quelling the storm within her, she sat down and began talking to their guest.
为什么，当她的心灵掀起一场风暴，她觉得自己正站在人生的转折点，这可能会带来可怕的后果——为什么在那一刻，她必须在外人面前保持形象，而外人迟早会这样做。以后一定会知道这一切——她不知道。但她立即平息了内心的风暴，坐下来开始与客人交谈。

‘Well, how are you getting on? Has your debt been paid you?’ she asked Yashvin.
‘嗯，你过得怎么样？你的债还清了吗？”她问亚什文。

‘Oh, pretty fair; I fancy I shan’t get it all, but I shall get a good half. And when are you off?’ said Yashvin, looking at Vronsky, and unmistakably guessing at a quarrel.
‘哦，很公平；我想我不会得到全部，但我会得到一半。 “你什么时候出发？”亚什温看着渥伦斯基说道，显然猜测是在吵架。

‘The day after tomorrow, I think,’ said Vronsky.
“我想是后天，”渥伦斯基说。

‘You’ve been meaning to go so long, though.’
“不过，你早就想去了。”

‘But now it’s quite decided,’ said Anna, looking Vronsky straight in the face with a look which told him not to dream of the possibility of reconciliation.
“但现在一切都已经决定了，”安娜说，直视渥伦斯基的脸，她的神情告诉他不要幻想和解的可能性。

‘Don’t you feel sorry for that unlucky Pyevtsov?’ she went on, talking to Yashvin.
“你不为那个不幸的皮耶夫佐夫感到难过吗？”她继续对亚什文说道。

‘I’ve never asked myself the question, Anna Arkadyevna, whether I’m sorry for him or not. You see, all my fortune’s here’—he touched his breast pocket—‘and just now I’m a wealthy man. But today I’m going to the club, and I may come out a beggar. You see, whoever sits down to play with me—he wants to leave me without a shirt to my back, and so do I him. And so we fight it out, and that’s the pleasure of it.’
“安娜·阿尔卡季耶夫娜，我从来没有问过自己这个问题：我是否为他感到难过。你看，我所有的财产都在这里”——他摸了摸胸前的口袋——“现在我是个有钱人了。”但今天我要去俱乐部，出来时我可能会变成乞丐。你看，无论谁坐下来和我一起玩——他都想让我背后不穿衬衫，我也是他。所以我们奋力拼搏，这就是其中的乐趣。”

‘Well, but suppose you were married,’ said Anna, ‘how would it be for your wife?’
“好吧，但是假设你结婚了，”安娜说，“你的妻子会怎么样？”

Yashvin laughed.
亚什文笑了。

‘That’s why I’m not married, and never mean to be.’
“这就是为什么我没有结婚，也从来没有打算结婚。”

‘And Helsingfors?’ said Vronsky, entering into the conversation and glancing at Anna’s smiling face. Meeting his eyes, Anna’s face instantly took a coldly severe expression as though she were saying to him: ‘It’s not forgotten. It’s all the same.’
“赫尔辛福斯呢？”渥伦斯基一边说，一边加入谈话，瞥了一眼安娜的笑脸。对上他的目光，安娜的脸上顿时露出了冷峻的表情，仿佛在对他说：“没有忘记。”全部都是一样。'

‘Were you really in love?’ she said to Yashvin.
“你真的恋爱过吗？”她对亚什文说。

‘Oh heavens! ever so many times! But you see, some men can play but only so that they can always lay down their cards when the hour of a rendezvous comes, while I can take up love, but only so as not to be late for my cards in the evening. That’s how I manage things.’
‘天啊！曾经这么多次！但你看，有些男人会玩，但只是为了在约会的时刻到来时随时放下牌，而我可以拿起爱情，但只是为了晚上不迟到。这就是我处理事情的方式。

‘No, I didn’t mean that, but the real thing.’ She would have said Helsingfors, but would not repeat the word used by Vronsky.
“不，我不是那个意思，而是真实的意思。”她会说赫尔辛福斯，但不会重复渥伦斯基用过的词。

Voytov, who was buying the horse, came in. Anna got up and went out of the room.
正在买马的沃伊托夫进来了。安娜起身走出了房间。

Before leaving the house, Vronsky went into her room. She would have pretended to be looking for something on the table, but ashamed of making a pretense, she looked straight in his face with cold eyes.
离开家之前，渥伦斯基走进了她的房间。她本想假装在桌子上寻找什么东西，但又羞于假装，目光冰冷地直视着他的脸。

‘What do you want?’ she asked in French.
“你想要什么？”她用法语问道。

‘To get the guarantee for Gambetta, I’ve sold him,’ he said, in a tone which said more clearly than words, ‘I’ve no time for discussing things, and it would lead to nothing.’
“为了得到甘贝塔的保证，我把他卖了，”他用一种比言语更清楚的语气说道，“我没有时间讨论事情，而且这不会有任何结果。”

‘I’m not to blame in any way,’ he thought. ‘If she will punish herself, tant pis pour elle.’ But as he was going he fancied that she said something, and his heart suddenly ached with pity for her.
“无论如何，我都不能受到责备，”他想。 “如果她惩罚自己，那就惩罚她吧。”但当他走的时候，他以为她说了些什么，他的心突然因对她的怜悯而疼痛。

‘Eh, Anna?’ he queried.
“呃，安娜？”他问道。

‘I said nothing,’ she answered just as coldly and calmly.
“我什么也没说，”她同样冷漠而平静地回答。

‘Oh, nothing, tant pis then,’ he thought, feeling cold again, and he turned and went out. As he was going out he caught a glimpse in the looking glass of her face, white, with quivering lips. He even wanted to stop and to say some comforting word to her, but his legs carried him out of the room before he could think what to say. The whole of that day he spent away from home, and when he came in late in the evening the maid told him that Anna Arkadyevna had a headache and begged him not to go in to her.
“哦，没什么，那就这样吧，”他想，又感到寒冷，然后转身出去了。当他出去的时候，他从镜子里瞥见了她的脸，苍白，嘴唇颤抖。他甚至想停下来对她说一些安慰的话，但还没等他想好该说什么，他的双腿就把他带出了房间。那天他一整天都不在家里，当他晚上很晚才回来时，女仆告诉他安娜·阿尔卡季耶芙娜头疼，恳求他不要进去。

Chapter 26
第26章

Never before had a day been passed in quarrel. Today was the first time. And this was not a quarrel. It was the open acknowledgment of complete coldness. Was it possible to glance at her as he had glanced when he came into the room for the guarantee?—to look at her, see her heart was breaking with despair, and go out without a word with that face of callous composure? He was not merely cold to her, he hated her because he loved another woman—that was clear.
以前从来没有一天是在争吵中度过的。今天是第一次。这并不是一场争吵。这是对完全冷漠的公开承认。是否可以像他进房间寻求保证时那样看她一眼？——看着她，看到她的心因绝望而破碎，然后一言不发地走出去，脸上冷酷镇定？他不仅对她冷淡，他恨她，因为他爱着另一个女人——这是显而易见的。

And remembering all the cruel words he had said, Anna supplied, too, the words that he had unmistakably wished to say and could have said to her, and she grew more and more exasperated.
想起他说过的所有残酷的话，安娜也说出了他显然想对她说的话，而且她本来可以对她说的话，她变得越来越恼怒。

‘I won’t prevent you,’ he might say. ‘You can go where you like. You were unwilling to be divorced from your husband, no doubt so that you might go back to him. Go back to him. If you want money, I’ll give it to you. How many roubles do you want?’
“我不会阻止你，”他可能会说。 ‘你可以去你喜欢的地方。你不愿意与你的丈夫离婚，毫无疑问是为了回到他身边。回到他身边吧。如果你想要钱，我就给你。你想要多少卢布？

All the most cruel words that a brutal man could say, he said to her in her imagination, and she could not forgive him for them, as though he had actually said them.
一个残酷的男人所能说出的所有最残酷的话，都是他在她的想象中对她说的，而她却无法原谅他，就好像他真的说过这些话一样。

‘But didn’t he only yesterday swear he loved me, he, a truthful and sincere man? Haven’t I despaired for nothing many times already?’ she said to herself afterwards.
“但他不是昨天才发誓爱我吗？他是一个诚实而真诚的人？”我不是已经绝望过很多次了吗？”事后她自言自语道。

All that day, except for the visit to Wilson’s, which occupied two hours, Anna spent in doubts whether everything were over or whether there were still hope of reconciliation, whether she should go away at once or see him once more. She was expecting him the whole day, and in the evening, as she went to her own room, leaving a message for him that her head ached, she said to herself, ‘If he comes in spite of what the maid says, it means that he loves me still. If not, it means that all is over, and then I will decide what I’m to do!...’
这一整天，除了去威尔逊家拜访了两个小时之外，安娜都在怀疑一切是否已经结束，是否还有和解的希望，是否应该立即离开，还是再次见到他。她一整天都在等他，晚上，当她回到自己的房间，给他留言时，她头疼，她对自己说：“如果他不顾女仆的话来，那就意味着他仍然爱我。如果没有，那就意味着一切都结束了，然后我再决定我要做什么！……”

In the evening she heard the rumbling of his carriage stop at the entrance, his ring, his steps and his conversation with the servant; he believed what was told him, did not care to find out more, and went to his own room. So then everything was over.
晚上，她听到他的马车停在入口处的隆隆声、他的铃声、他的脚步声以及他与仆人的谈话；他相信了他所说的话，也懒得去了解更多，就走进了自己的房间。那么一切就都结束了。

And death rose clearly and vividly before her mind as the sole means of bringing back love for her in his heart, of punishing him and of gaining the victory in that strife which the evil spirit in possession of her heart was waging with him.
死亡清晰而生动地出现在她的脑海中，这是唯一的手段，可以使他心中对她的爱重新回来，惩罚他，并在占据她内心的邪灵与他进行的斗争中取得胜利。

Now nothing mattered: going or not going to Vozdvizhenskoe, getting or not getting a divorce from her husband—all that did not matter. The one thing that mattered was punishing him. When she poured herself out her usual dose of opium, and thought that she had only to drink off the whole bottle to die, it seemed to her so simple and easy, that she began musing with enjoyment on how he would suffer, and repent and love her memory when it would be too late. She lay in bed with open eyes, by the light of a single burned-down candle, gazing at the carved cornice of the ceiling and at the shadow of the screen that covered part of it, while she vividly pictured to herself how he would feel when she would be no more, when she would be only a memory to him. ‘How could I say such cruel things to her?’ he would say. ‘How could I go out of the room without saying anything to her? But now she is no more. She has gone away from us forever. She is....’ Suddenly the shadow of the screen wavered, pounced on the whole cornice, the whole ceiling; other shadows from the other side swooped to meet it, for an instant the shadows flitted back, but then with fresh swiftness they darted forward, wavered, commingled, and all was darkness. ‘Death!’ she thought. And such horror came upon her that for a long while she could not realize where she was, and for a long while her trembling hands could not find the matches and light another candle, instead of the one that had burned down and gone out. ‘No, anything—only to live! Why, I love him! Why, he loves me! This has been before and will pass,’ she said, feeling that tears of joy at the return to life were trickling down her cheeks. And to escape from her panic she went hurriedly to his room.
现在一切都不再重要了：去或不去沃兹德维任斯科耶、是否与丈夫离婚——所有这些都不重要了。重要的一件事是惩罚他。当她给自己倒出平常服用的鸦片剂量，并以为只要喝完整瓶鸦片就会死去，这对她来说似乎是那么简单和容易，她开始愉快地思考他将如何受苦、悔改和爱她的记忆，当一切都为时已晚。她躺在床上，睁着眼睛，借着一根燃尽的蜡烛的光，凝视着天花板上雕刻的飞檐和遮住部分飞檐的屏风的影子，同时她生动地想象着他的感受。当她不再存在的时候，当她对他来说只是一个回忆的时候。 “我怎么能对她说这么残酷的话呢？”他会说。 ‘我怎么能不跟她说什么就走出房间呢？但现在她已经不复存在了。她已经永远离开了我们。她是……”突然，屏风的影子摇晃起来，扑向整个檐口，整个天花板；另一边的其他影子也俯冲过来，一瞬间，影子向后飞去，但随后又以新的速度向前冲去，摇摆不定，混合在一起，一切都陷入了黑暗。 “死亡！”她想。她感到如此恐惧，很长一段时间她不知道自己在哪里，很长一段时间她颤抖的双手找不到火柴，无法点燃另一根蜡烛，而不是那根已经燃尽并熄灭的蜡烛。 “不，什么都行——只要活着！为什么，我爱他！为什么，他爱我！这种事以前发生过，也会过去的。”她说，感觉重获新生的喜悦泪水从脸颊上流下来。为了避免惊慌，她赶紧去了他的房间。

He was asleep there, and sleeping soundly. She went up to him, and holding the light above his face, she gazed a long while at him. Now when he was asleep, she loved him so that at the sight of him she could not keep back tears of tenderness. But she knew that if he waked up he would look at her with cold eyes, convinced that he was right, and that before telling him of her love, she would have to prove to him that he had been wrong in his treatment of her. Without waking him, she went back, and after a second dose of opium she fell towards morning into a heavy, incomplete sleep, during which she never quite lost consciousness.
他就在那里睡着了，而且睡得很香。她走到他面前，把灯举到他脸上，凝视了他良久。现在，当他睡着的时候，她爱他，一看到他就忍不住流下温柔的泪水。但她知道，如果他醒来，他会用冷漠的眼神看着她，确信自己是对的，而在告诉他她的爱之前，她必须向他证明，他对待她的方式是错误的。她没有叫醒他，就回去了，在服用第二剂鸦片后，她在黎明前陷入了沉沉的、不完整的睡眠中，在此期间她从未完全失去知觉。

In the morning she was waked by a horrible nightmare, which had recurred several times in her dreams, even before her connection with Vronsky. A little old man with unkempt beard was doing something bent down over some iron, muttering meaningless French words, and she, as she always did in this nightmare (it was what made the horror of it), felt that this peasant was taking no notice of her, but was doing something horrible with the iron— over her. And she waked up in a cold sweat.
早上，她被一场可怕的噩梦惊醒，这种噩梦在她与渥伦斯基交往之前就已经在梦中反复出现过好几次了。一个胡须蓬乱的小老头正弯下腰在铁板上做着什么，嘴里嘟囔着毫无意义的法语单词，而她，就像她在这场噩梦中总是做的那样（这就是它的恐怖之处），觉得这个农民没有注意到却在用熨斗做一些可怕的事情——在她身上。她惊醒了，一身冷汗。

When she got up, the previous day came back to her as though veiled in mist.
当她起床时，昨天的情景仿佛笼罩在薄雾中，又回到了她的脑海中。

‘There was a quarrel. Just what has happened several times. I said I had a headache, and he did not come in to see me. Tomorrow we’re going away; I must see him and get ready for the journey,’ she said to herself. And learning that he was in his study, she went down to him. As she passed through the drawing room she heard a carriage stop at the entrance, and looking out of the window she saw the carriage, from which a young girl in a lilac hat was leaning out giving some direction to the footman ringing the bell. After a parley in the hall, someone came upstairs, and Vronsky’s steps could be heard passing the drawing room. He went rapidly downstairs. Anna went again to the window. She saw him come out onto the steps without his hat and go up to the carriage. The young girl in the lilac hat handed him a parcel. Vronsky, smiling, said something to her. The carriage drove away, he ran rapidly upstairs again.
‘发生了一场争吵。只是这样的事已经发生过好几次了。我说我头疼，他就没有来看我。明天我们就要离开；我必须见到他并为旅程做好准备，”她对自己说。得知他在书房里，她便下楼去找他。穿过客厅的时候，她听到一辆马车停在门口，她向窗外望去，看到马车上，一个戴着淡紫色帽子的年轻女孩探出身子，给按门铃的男仆指路。大厅里谈判结束后，有人上楼，客厅里传来渥伦斯基的脚步声。他快步下了楼。安娜又走到窗前。她看见他没有戴帽子，走上台阶，朝马车走去。戴淡紫色帽子的少女递给他一个包裹。渥伦斯基微笑着对她说了些什么。马车开走了，他又飞快地跑上楼。

The mists that had shrouded everything in her soul parted suddenly. The feelings of yesterday pierced the sick heart with a fresh pang. She could not understand now how she could have lowered herself by spending a whole day with him in his house. She went into his room to announce her determination.
笼罩着她灵魂一切的迷雾骤然散开。昨天的感受让那颗病痛的心感到一阵新鲜的刺痛。她现在不明白，自己在他家里跟他待了一整天，怎么会降低自己的地位。她走进他的房间宣布她的决定。

‘That was Madame Sorokina and her daughter. They came and brought me the money and the deeds from maman. I couldn’t get them yesterday. How is your head, better?’ he said quietly, not wishing to see and to understand the gloomy and solemn expression of her face.
“那是索罗金娜夫人和她的女儿。他们来给我带来了妈妈的钱和房产证。我昨天没能拿到它们。你的头怎么样了，好点了吗？”他轻声说道，不想看到也不想理解她脸上阴沉而严肃的表情。

She looked silently, intently at him, standing in the middle of the room. He glanced at her, frowned for a moment, and went on reading a letter. She turned, and went deliberately out of the room. He still might have turned her back, but she had reached the door, he was still silent, and the only sound audible was the rustling of the note paper as he turned it.
她站在房间中央，静静地、专注地看着他。他看了她一眼，皱起眉头，继续读着一封信。她转身，故意走出房间。他或许还想转身背对她，但她已经到了门口，他依然一声不吭，唯一能听见的声音就是他翻动信纸时发出的沙沙声。

‘Oh, by the way,’ he said at the very moment she was in the doorway, ‘we’re going tomorrow for certain, aren’t we?’
“哦，顺便说一下，”她一到门口，他就说道，“我们明天肯定就去，不是吗？”

‘You, but not I,’ she said, turning round to him.
“你，但不是我，”她转身对他说。

‘Anna, we can’t go on like this...’
“安娜，我们不能再这样下去了……”

‘You, but not I,’ she repeated.
“你，但不是我，”她重复道。

‘This is getting unbearable!’
“这让人难以忍受！”

‘You...you will be sorry for this,’ she said, and went out.
“你……你会为此感到抱歉的，”她说完就出去了。

Frightened by the desperate expression with which these words were uttered, he jumped up and would have run after her, but on second thoughts he sat down and scowled, setting his teeth. This vulgar—as he thought it—threat of something vague exasperated him. ‘I’ve tried everything,’ he thought; ‘the only thing left is not to pay attention,’ and he began to get ready to drive into town, and again to his mother’s to get her signature to the deeds.
他被这句话中绝望的表情吓到了，他跳起来想要追她，但转念一想，他又坐下来，皱起眉头，咬紧牙关。这种粗俗的——正如他所认为的——含糊不清的威胁激怒了他。 “我已经尝试了一切，”他想。 “唯一剩下的就是不去注意，”他开始准备开车进城，然后再次去他母亲家让她在房产证上签名。

She heard the sound of his steps about the study and the dining room. At the drawing room he stood still. But he did not turn in to see her, he merely gave an order that the horse should be given to Voytov if he came while he was away. Then she heard the carriage brought round, the door opened, and he came out again. But he went back into the porch again, and someone was running upstairs. It was the valet running up for his gloves that had been forgotten. She went to the window and saw him take the gloves without looking, and touching the coachman on the back he said something to him. Then without looking up at the window he settled himself in his usual attitude in the carriage, with his legs crossed, and drawing on his gloves he vanished round the corner.
她听见他的脚步声绕过书房和餐厅。在客厅里，他一动不动地站着。但他并没有去看她，只是下令说，如果沃伊托夫不在的时候来的话，就把这匹马送给他。然后她听到马车转过来，车门打开，他又出来了。但他又回到门廊，发现有人正在往楼上跑。是那个男仆跑过来拿他被遗忘的手套。她走到窗前，看见他看也没看就接过手套，摸了摸车夫的背，对他说了些什么。然后他没有抬头看窗子，以平常的姿势坐在马车里，盘着双腿，戴上手套，消失在拐角处。

Chapter 27
第27章

‘He has gone! It is over!’ Anna said to herself, standing at the window; and in answer to this statement the impression of the darkness when the candle had flickered out, and of her fearful dream mingling into one, filled her heart with cold terror.
'他走了！一切都结束了！”安娜站在窗前自言自语道。作为对这句话的回应，蜡烛闪烁时的黑暗印象和她可怕的梦境交织在一起，使她的心充满了寒冷的恐惧。

‘No, that cannot be!’ she cried, and crossing the room she rang the bell. She was so afraid now of being alone, that without waiting for the servant to come in, she went out to meet him.
“不，不可能！”她喊道，穿过房间按响了门铃。她现在很害怕一个人呆着，所以没等仆人进来，她就出去迎接他了。

‘Inquire where the count has gone,’ she said. The servant answered that the count had gone to the stable.
“询问伯爵去哪儿了，”她说。仆人回答说伯爵已经去了马厩了。

‘His honor left word that if you cared to drive out, the carriage would be back immediately.’
“大人留下话，只要你愿意开车出去，马车马上就回来。”

‘Very good. Wait a minute. I’ll write a note at once. Send Mihail with the note to the stables. Make haste.’
'非常好。等一下。我马上写个便条。把米哈伊尔带着纸条送到马厩。赶快。'

She sat down and wrote:
她坐下来写道：

‘I was wrong. Come back home; I must explain. For God’s sake come! I’m afraid.’
'我错了。回到家；我必须解释一下。看在上帝的份上，来吧！我耽心。'

She sealed it up and gave it to the servant.
她将它密封起来，交给了仆人。

She was afraid of being left alone now; she followed the servant out of the room, and went to the nursery.
她现在害怕独自一人。她跟着佣人出了房间，往育婴室走去。

‘Why, this isn’t it, this isn’t he! Where are his blue eyes, his sweet, shy smile?’ was her first thought when she saw her chubby, rosy little girl with her black, curly hair instead of Seryozha, whom in the tangle of her ideas she had expected to see in the nursery. The little girl sitting at the table was obstinately and violently battering on it with a cork, and staring aimlessly at her mother with her pitch-black eyes. Answering the English nurse that she was quite well, and that she was going to the country tomorrow, Anna sat down by the little girl and began spinning the cork to show her. But the child’s loud, ringing laugh, and the motion of her eyebrows, recalled Vronsky so vividly that she got up hurriedly, restraining her sobs, and went away. ‘Can it be all over? No, it cannot be!’ she thought. ‘He will come back. But how can he explain that smile, that excitement after he had been talking to her? But even if he doesn’t explain, I will believe. If I don’t believe, there’s only one thing left for me, and I can’t.’
‘为什么，这不是他，这不是他！他的蓝眼睛，他甜美害羞的笑容在哪里？”当她看到她那胖乎乎的、红润的、一头黑色卷发的小女孩而不是谢廖扎时，她的第一个念头就是，在她混乱的想法中，她本以为会在书中看到谢廖扎。苗圃。坐在桌边的小女孩执拗地用木塞猛烈地敲打着桌子，漆黑的眼睛漫无目的地看着妈妈。安娜回答英国护士她身体很好，明天要去乡下，然后在小女孩旁边坐下，开始旋转软木塞给她看。但孩子响亮的笑声和眉毛的动作却让渥伦斯基记忆犹新，她赶紧站起来，忍住抽泣，走开了。 ‘一切都可以结束了吗？不，不可能！”她想。 '他会回来的。但他该如何解释他与她交谈后的笑容和兴奋呢？但即使他不解释，我也会相信。如果我不相信，我就只剩下一件事了，而且我不能。”

She looked at her watch. Twenty minutes had passed. ‘By now he has received the note and is coming back. Not long, ten minutes more.... But what if he doesn’t come? No, that cannot be. He mustn’t see me with tear-stained eyes. I’ll go and wash. Yes, yes; did I do my hair or not?’ she asked herself. And she could not remember. She felt her head with her hand. ‘Yes, my hair has been done, but when I did it I can’t in the least remember.’ She could not believe the evidence of her hand, and went up to the pier glass to see whether she really had done her hair. She certainly had, but she could not think when she had done it. ‘Who’s that?’ she thought, looking in the looking glass at the swollen face with strangely glittering eyes, that looked in a scared way at her. ‘Why, it’s I!’ she suddenly understood, and looking round, she seemed all at once to feel his kisses on her, and twitched her shoulders, shuddering. Then she lifted her hand to her lips and kissed it.
她看了看手表。二十分钟过去了。 “现在他已经收到了纸条，正在回来。时间不长，十分钟就到了……但是如果他不来怎么办？不，那不可能。他不能用泪眼汪汪的眼神看着我。我去洗漱。是的是的;我到底有没有做头发？”她问自己。她不记得了。她用手摸了摸自己的头。 “是的，我的头发已经做过了，但是我根本不记得我是什么时候做的。”她不敢相信自己手上的证据，走到穿衣镜前看看自己是否真的做过头发。 。她确实做到了，但她想不起来自己是什么时候做到的。 “那是谁？”她心里想，一边看着镜子里那张肿胀的脸，眼睛里闪烁着奇怪的光芒，眼神充满恐惧地看着她。 “唷，是我！”她突然明白了，环顾四周，似乎一下子就感觉到了他的吻，肩膀抽动了一下，浑身颤抖。然后她把手举到唇边吻了吻。

‘What is it? Why, I’m going out of my mind!’ and she went into her bedroom, where Annushka was tidying the room.
'它是什么？哎呀，我疯了！”然后她走进自己的卧室，安努什卡正在收拾房间。

‘Annushka,’ she said, coming to a standstill before her, and she stared at the maid, not knowing what to say to her.
“安努什卡，”她说着，在身前站住了，她盯着女仆，不知道该对她说什么。

‘You meant to go and see Darya Alexandrovna,’ said the girl, as though she understood.
“你想去见达里娅·亚历山德罗芙娜。”女孩说道，好像她听懂了似的。

‘Darya Alexandrovna? Yes, I’ll go.’
“达里娅·亚历山德罗芙娜？是的，我会去。

‘Fifteen minutes there, fifteen minutes back. He’s coming, he’ll be here soon.’ She took out her watch and looked at it. ‘But how could he go away, leaving me in such a state? How can he live, without making it up with me?’ She went to the window and began looking into the street. Judging by the time, he might be back now. But her calculations might be wrong, and she began once more to recall when he had started and to count the minutes.
“那里十五分钟，回来十五分钟。”他来了，很快就到了。”她拿出手表看了看。 “可是他怎么能走开，留下我这样的样子呢？”不跟我和解，他怎么活下去？”她走到窗前，开始朝街上看。从时间来看，他现在可能回来了。但她的计算可能是错误的，她再次开始回忆他什么时候开始的，并数着时间。

At the moment when she had moved away to the big clock to compare it with her watch, someone drove up. Glancing out of the window, she saw his carriage. But no one came upstairs, and voices could be heard below. It was the messenger who had come back in the carriage. She went down to him.
就在她走到大钟跟前对比手表的时候，有人开车过来了。向窗外望去，看到了他的马车。但楼上并没有人上来，楼下也传来说话声。正是乘马车回来的使者。她走到他身边。

‘We didn’t catch the count. The count had driven off on the lower city road.’
“我们没听清计数。伯爵已经开车沿着较低的城市道路离开了。

‘What do you say? What!...’ she said to the rosy, good-humored Mihail, as he handed her back her note.
'你怎么说？什么！……”当米哈伊尔把纸条还给她时，她对面色红润、幽默的米哈伊尔说道。

‘Why, then, he has never received it!’ she thought.
“那么，为什么他从来没有收到过呢！”她想。

‘Go with this note to Countess Vronskaya’s place, you know? and bring an answer back immediately,’ she said to the messenger.
“带着这张纸条去渥伦斯卡娅伯爵夫人那里，你知道吗？”并立即带回答复。”她对使者说道。

‘And I, what am I going to do?’ she thought. ‘Yes, I’m going to Dolly’s, that’s true or else I shall go out of my mind. Yes, and I can telegraph, too.’ And she wrote a telegram. ‘I absolutely must talk to you; come at once.’ After sending off the telegram, she went to dress. When she was dressed and in her hat, she glanced again into the eyes of the plump, comfortable-looking Annushka. There was unmistakable sympathy in those good-natured little gray eyes.
“那我该怎么办呢？”她想。 “是的，我要去多莉家，这是事实，否则我会发疯的。”是的，我也会打电报。”然后她写了一封电报。 “我绝对必须和你谈谈；发完电报后，她就去穿衣服了。当她穿好衣服戴上帽子后，她又看了一眼丰满、看上去很舒服的安努什卡的眼睛。那双善良的灰色小眼睛里流露出明显的同情心。

‘Annushka, dear, what am I to do?’ said Anna, sobbing and sinking helplessly into a chair.
“安努什卡，亲爱的，我该怎么办？”安娜抽泣着，无助地坐到椅子上说道。

‘Why fret yourself so, Anna Arkadyevna? Why, there’s nothing out of the way. You drive out a little, and it’ll cheer you up,’ said the maid.
“安娜·阿尔卡季耶芙娜，何必这么烦恼呢？嗯，没有什么不可以的。你开车出去一点，你就会高兴起来。”女仆说道。

‘Yes, I’m going,’ said Anna, rousing herself and getting up. ‘And if there’s a telegram while I’m away, send it on to Darya Alexandrovna’s...but no, I shall be back myself.’
“是的，我要去。”安娜说着，振作起来，站了起来。 “如果我不在时有电报，请将其发送到达里娅·亚历山德罗芙娜那里……但是不，我会自己回来。”

‘Yes, I mustn’t think, I must do something, drive somewhere, and most of all, get out of this house,’ she said, feeling with terror the strange turmoil going on in her own heart, and she made haste to go out and get into the carriage.
“是的，我不能想，我必须做点什么，开车去某个地方，最重要的是，离开这所房子，”她说，恐惧地感受到自己内心正在发生的奇怪的骚动，她赶紧跑了出去。出去，上了马车。

‘Where to?’ asked Pyotr before getting onto the box.
“去哪里？”彼得在登上包厢前问道。

‘To Znamenka, the Oblonskys’.’
“致兹纳缅卡，奥布朗斯基夫妇。”

Chapter 28
第28章

It was bright and sunny. A fine rain had been falling all the morning, and now it had not long cleared up. The iron roofs, the flags of the roads, the flints of the pavements, the wheels and leather, the brass and the tinplate of the carriages—all glistened brightly in the May sunshine. It was three o’clock, and the very liveliest time in the streets.
天气晴朗。一场倾盆大雨下了一个上午，现在天还没有放晴。铁皮屋顶、路上的旗帜、人行道上的燧石、车轮和皮革、马车的黄铜和马口铁——所有这些都在五月的阳光下闪闪发光。时间是下午三点，正是街上最热闹的时候。

As she sat in a corner of the comfortable carriage, that hardly swayed on its supple springs, while the grays trotted swiftly, in the midst of the unceasing rattle of wheels and the changing impressions in the pure air, Anna ran over the events of the last days, and she saw her position quite differently from how it had seemed at home. Now the thought of death seemed no longer so terrible and so clear to her, and death itself no longer seemed so inevitable. Now she blamed herself for the humiliation to which she had lowered herself. ‘I entreat him to forgive me. I have given in to him. I have owned myself in fault. What for? Can’t I live without him?’ And leaving unanswered the question how she was going to live without him, she fell to reading the signs on the shops. ‘Office and warehouse. Dental surgeon. Yes, I’ll tell Dolly all about it. She doesn’t like Vronsky. I shall be sick and ashamed, but I’ll tell her. She loves me, and I’ll follow her advice. I won’t give in to him; I won’t let him train me as he pleases. Filippov, bun shop. They say they send their dough to Petersburg. The Moscow water is so good for it. Ah, the springs at Mitishtchen, and the pancakes!’
当她坐在舒适的马车的一角时，马车在柔软的弹簧的作用下几乎不摇晃，而灰色的人则迅速小跑，在车轮不断发出的嘎嘎声和纯净空气中不断变化的印象中，安娜回顾了当年发生的事情。最近几天，她对自己的处境的看法与在家中的看法截然不同。现在，死亡的念头对她来说不再那么可怕、那么清晰，死亡本身也不再那么不可避免。现在她为自己所遭受的屈辱而自责。 ‘我恳求他原谅我。我已经向他屈服了。我承认自己有错。做什么的？没有他我就不能生活吗？”没有回答没有他她将如何生活的问题，她开始阅读商店上的招牌。 ‘办公室和仓库。牙科医生。是的，我会把这一切都告诉多莉。她不喜欢渥伦斯基。我会感到恶心和羞愧，但我会告诉她。她爱我，我会听从她的建议。我不会向他屈服；我不会让他随心所欲地训练我。菲利波夫，包子店。他们说他们把面团送到了彼得堡。莫斯科的水非常适合它。啊，Mitishtchen 的泉水，还有煎饼！”

And she remembered how, long, long ago, when she was a girl of seventeen, she had gone with her aunt to Troitsa. ‘Riding, too. Was that really me, with red hands? How much that seemed to me then splendid and out of reach has become worthless, while what I had then has gone out of my reach forever! Could I ever have believed then that I could come to such humiliation? How conceited and self-satisfied he will be when he gets my note! But I will show him.... How horrid that paint smells! Why is it they’re always painting and building? Modes et robes,’ she read. A man bowed to her. It was Annushka’s husband. ‘Our parasites”; she remembered how Vronsky had said that. ‘Our? Why our? What’s so awful is that one can’t tear up the past by its roots. One can’t tear it out, but one can hide one’s memory of it. And I’ll hide it.’ And then she thought of her past with Alexey Alexandrovitch, of how she had blotted the memory of it out of her life. ‘Dolly will think I’m leaving my second husband, and so I certainly must be in the wrong. As if I cared to be right! I can’t help it!’ she said, and she wanted to cry. But at once she fell to wondering what those two girls could be smiling about. ‘Love, most likely. They don’t know how dreary it is, how low.... The boulevard and the children. Three boys running, playing at horses. Seryozha! And I’m losing everything and not getting him back. Yes, I’m losing everything, if he doesn’t return. Perhaps he was late for the train and has come back by now. Longing for humiliation again!’ she said to herself. ‘No, I’ll go to Dolly, and say straight out to her, I’m unhappy, I deserve this, I’m to blame, but still I’m unhappy, help me. These horses, this carriage—how loathsome I am to myself in this carriage—all his; but I won’t see them again.’
她还记得很久很久以前，当她还是个十七岁的女孩时，她和姨妈一起去了特罗伊察。 ‘还有骑马。那真的是我，双手红红的吗？那些在我看来多么美好而遥不可及的东西现在已经变得一文不值了，而我曾经拥有的一切却永远是我无法企及的了！那时我能相信我会遭受这样的羞辱吗？当他收到我的纸条时，他会多么自负和洋洋自得啊！但我会告诉他……那油漆的味道多么难闻！为什么他们总是在绘画和建造？ “时尚与长袍，”她读道。一个男人向她鞠躬。那是安努什卡的丈夫。 “我们的寄生虫”；她记得渥伦斯基是怎么说的。 '我们的？为什么是我们的？可怕的是，我们无法将过去连根拔起。一个人无法撕掉它，但可以隐藏自己对它的记忆。我会把它藏起来。”然后她想起了她和阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇的过去，想起了她是如何把这段记忆从她的生活中抹去的。 “多莉会认为我要离开我的第二任丈夫，所以我肯定是错了。好像我很想是对的！我无能为力！”她说，她想哭。但她立刻开始好奇这两个女孩在笑什么。 ‘很可能是爱。他们不知道那是多么沉闷、多么低矮……林荫大道和孩子们。三个男孩奔跑、玩马。谢廖扎！我正在失去一切，却无法让他回来。是的，如果他不回来，我就会失去一切。也许他火车迟到了，现在已经回来了。渴望再次受到羞辱！”她对自己说。 “不，我会去找多莉，直接对她说，我不快乐，这是我应得的，我有责任，但我仍然不快乐，请帮助我。”这些马，这辆马车——坐在这辆马车里的我是多么厌恶自己——全都是他的；但我不会再见到他们了。

Thinking over the words in which she would tell Dolly, and mentally working her heart up to great bitterness, Anna went upstairs.
安娜心里想着要对多莉说的话，内心感到无比的痛苦，然后上楼了。

‘Is there anyone with her?’ she asked in the hall.
“有人和她一起吗？”她在大厅里问道。

‘Katerina Alexandrovna Levin,’ answered the footman.
“卡捷琳娜·亚历山德罗芙娜·莱文，”仆人回答。

‘Kitty! Kitty, whom Vronsky was in love with!’ thought Anna, ‘the girl he thinks of with love. He’s sorry he didn’t marry her. But me he thinks of with hatred, and is sorry he had anything to do with me.’
'猫咪！基蒂，渥伦斯基爱上了她！”安娜想，“他满怀爱意地想到了这个女孩。他很遗憾没有娶她。但他对我充满仇恨，并且很抱歉他与我有任何关系。

The sisters were having a consultation about nursing when Anna called. Dolly went down alone to see the visitor who had interrupted their conversation.
当安娜打来电话时，姐妹俩正在咨询有关护理的问题。多莉独自下去见打断他们谈话的访客。

‘Well, so you’ve not gone away yet? I meant to have come to you,’ she said; ‘I had a letter from Stiva today.’
「呃，那你还没走吗？」我本来是想来找你的，”她说。 “我今天收到了 Stiva 的一封信。”

‘We had a telegram too,’ answered Anna, looking round for Kitty.
“我们也收到了一份电报。”安娜一边回答，一边环顾四周寻找基蒂。

‘He writes that he can’t make out quite what Alexey Alexandrovitch wants, but he won’t go away without a decisive answer.’
“他写道，他不太明白阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇想要什么，但如果没有明确的答案，他不会离开。”

‘I thought you had someone with you. Can I see the letter?’
‘我以为你有人陪着你呢。我可以看看这封信吗？

‘Yes; Kitty,’ said Dolly, embarrassed. ‘She stayed in the nursery. She has been very ill.’
'是的;基蒂，”多莉不好意思地说。 “她住在托儿所里。她病得很重。

‘So I heard. May I see the letter?’
‘所以我听说了。我可以看看这封信吗？

‘I’ll get it directly. But he doesn’t refuse; on the contrary, Stiva has hopes,’ said Dolly, stopping in the doorway.
‘我直接去拿。但他并不拒绝； “相反，斯蒂瓦有希望。”多莉在门口停下来说道。

‘I haven’t, and indeed I don’t wish it,’ said Anna.
“我没有，事实上我也不希望这样，”安娜说。

‘What’s this? Does Kitty consider it degrading to meet me?’ thought Anna when she was alone. ‘Perhaps she’s right, too. But it’s not for her, the girl who was in love with Vronsky, it’s not for her to show me that, even if it is true. I know that in my position I can’t be received by any decent woman. I knew that from the first moment I sacrificed everything to him. And this is my reward! Oh, how I hate him! And what did I come here for? I’m worse here, more miserable.’ She heard from the next room the sisters’ voices in consultation. ‘And what am I going to say to Dolly now? Amuse Kitty by the sight of my wretchedness, submit to her patronizing? No; and besides, Dolly wouldn’t understand. And it would be no good my telling her. It would only be interesting to see Kitty, to show her how I despise everyone and everything, how nothing matters to me now.’
'这是什么？凯蒂认为见到我是有辱人格的吗？”安娜独自一人时想。 ‘也许她也是对的。但这不是为了她，那个爱上渥伦斯基的女孩，不是为了她向我展示这一点，即使这是真的。我知道以我的地位，任何正派的女人都不会接待我。我知道从第一刻起我就为他牺牲了一切。这就是我的奖励！噢，我多么恨他啊！而我来这里是为了什么？我在这里更糟糕，更痛苦。”她听到隔壁房间里传来姐妹们商量的声音。 “那我现在要对多莉说什么呢？让凯蒂看到我的不幸，就接受她的居高临下吗？不;而且，多莉也听不懂。我告诉她也没用。见到基蒂只会很有趣，让她看看我是如何鄙视所有人和一切，现在什么对我来说都不重要了。

Dolly came in with the letter. Anna read it and handed it back in silence.
多莉拿着信进来了。安娜读了一遍，默默地递还给她。

‘I knew all that,’ she said, ‘and it doesn’t interest me in the least.’
“这些我都知道，”她说，“但我对此一点也不感兴趣。”

‘Oh, why so? On the contrary, I have hopes,’ said Dolly, looking inquisitively at Anna. She had never seen her in such a strangely irritable condition. ‘When are you going away?’ she asked.
‘噢，为什么会这样呢？相反，我有希望。”多莉好奇地看着安娜说道。她从来没有见过她如此异常烦躁的状态。 “你什么时候走？”她问。

Anna, half-closing her eyes, looked straight before her and did not answer.
安娜半闭着眼睛，直视着前方，没有回答。

‘Why does Kitty shrink from me?’ she said, looking at the door and flushing red.
“为什么凯蒂躲着我？”她看着门，脸涨得通红。

‘Oh, what nonsense! She’s nursing, and things aren’t going right with her, and I’ve been advising her.... She’s delighted. She’ll be here in a minute,’ said Dolly awkwardly, not clever at lying. ‘Yes, here she is.’
‘噢，胡说八道！她正在哺乳，事情不太顺利，我一直在给她提供建议……她很高兴。她一会儿就到了。”多莉笨拙地说，她不擅长撒谎。 “是的，她在这里。”

Hearing that Anna had called, Kitty had wanted not to appear, but Dolly persuaded her. Rallying her forces, Kitty went in, walked up to her, blushing, and shook hands.
听到安娜打来电话，基蒂本来不想出现，但被多莉说服了。凯蒂鼓起勇气走了进去，红着脸走到她跟前，与她握手。

‘I am so glad to see you,’ she said with a trembling voice.
“我很高兴见到你，”她声音颤抖地说。

Kitty had been thrown into confusion by the inward conflict between her antagonism to this bad woman and her desire to be nice to her. But as soon as she saw Anna’s lovely and attractive face, all feeling of antagonism disappeared.
基蒂对这个坏女人的敌意和对她好的愿望之间的内心冲突让她陷入了困惑。但当她看到安娜那张可爱又迷人的脸时，所有的抵触感都消失了。

‘I should not have been surprised if you had not cared to meet me. I’m used to everything. You have been ill? Yes, you are changed,’ said Anna.
“如果你不想见我，我不会感到惊讶。我已经习惯了一切。你生病了吗？是的，你变了。”安娜说。

Kitty felt that Anna was looking at her with hostile eyes. She ascribed this hostility to the awkward position in which Anna, who had once patronized her, must feel with her now, and she felt sorry for her.
凯蒂感觉到安娜正在用充满敌意的眼神看着她。她把这种敌意归咎于曾经光顾过她的安娜现在一定对她感到同情，她为她感到难过。

They talked of Kitty’s illness, of the baby, of Stiva, but it was obvious that nothing interested Anna.
他们谈论基蒂的病、婴儿、斯蒂瓦，但显然安娜对任何事情都不感兴趣。

‘I came to say good-bye to you,’ she said, getting up.
“我是来跟你告别的。”她站起身来说道。

‘Oh, when are you going?’
“哦，你什么时候去？”

But again not answering, Anna turned to Kitty.
但安娜再次没有回答，而是转向基蒂。

‘Yes, I am very glad to have seen you,’ she said with a smile. ‘I have heard so much of you from everyone, even from your husband. He came to see me, and I liked him exceedingly,’ she said, unmistakably with malicious intent. ‘Where is he?’
“是的，我很高兴见到你，”她微笑着说道。 “我从每个人那里都听说过你，甚至从你丈夫那里也听说过你。他来看我，我非常喜欢他。”她说道，语气中明显带着恶意。 '他在哪里？'

‘He has gone back to the country,’ said Kitty, blushing.
“他回国了。”基蒂红着脸说道。

‘Remember me to him, be sure you do.’
“请记住我，一定要记住。”

‘I’ll be sure to!’ Kitty said naively, looking compassionately into her eyes.
“我一定会的！”凯蒂天真地说，充满同情地看着她的眼睛。

‘So good-bye, Dolly.’ And kissing Dolly and shaking hands with Kitty, Anna went out hurriedly.
“再见，多莉。” 安娜亲吻了多莉，与基蒂握手，然后匆匆出去了。

‘She’s just the same and just as charming! She’s very lovely!’ said Kitty, when she was alone with her sister. ‘But there’s something piteous about her. Awfully piteous!’
‘她还是一样，一样迷人！她非常可爱！”当凯蒂独自和姐姐在一起时，她说道。 ‘但她身上有一些可怜之处。真是可怜啊！

‘Yes, there’s something unusual about her today,’ said Dolly. ‘When I went with her into the hall, I fancied she was almost crying.’
“是的，她今天有些不寻常，”多莉说。 “当我和她一起走进大厅时，我觉得她几乎哭了。”

Chapter 29
第29章

Anna got into the carriage again in an even worse frame of mind than when she set out from home. To her previous tortures was added now that sense of mortification and of being an outcast which she had felt so distinctly on meeting Kitty.
安娜再次坐上马车，心情比出门时还要糟糕。除了之前的折磨之外，现在又增加了一种屈辱感和被抛弃的感觉，这是她在见到基蒂时明显感受到的。

‘Where to? Home?’ asked Pyotr.
'去哪儿？回家了吗？”彼得问。

‘Yes, home,’ she said, not even thinking now where she was going.
“是的，回家。”她说，现在甚至没有想到自己要去哪里。

‘How they looked at me as something dreadful, incomprehensible, and curious! What can he be telling the other with such warmth?’ she thought, staring at two men who walked by. ‘Can one ever tell anyone what one is feeling? I meant to tell Dolly, and it’s a good thing I didn’t tell her. How pleased she would have been at my misery! She would have concealed it, but her chief feeling would have been delight at my being punished for the happiness she envied me for. Kitty, she would have been even more pleased. How I can see through her! She knows I was more than usually sweet to her husband. And she’s jealous and hates me. And she despises me. In her eyes I’m an immoral woman. If I were an immoral woman I could have made her husband fall in love with me ...if I’d cared to. And, indeed, I did care to. There’s someone who’s pleased with himself,’ she thought, as she saw a fat, rubicund gentleman coming towards her. He took her for an acquaintance, and lifted his glossy hat above his bald, glossy head, and then perceived his mistake. ‘He thought he knew me. Well, he knows me as well as anyone in the world knows me. I don’t know myself. I know my appetites, as the French say. They want that dirty ice cream, that they do know for certain,’ she thought, looking at two boys stopping an ice cream seller, who took a barrel off his head and began wiping his perspiring face with a towel. ‘We all want what is sweet and nice. If not sweetmeats, then a dirty ice. And Kitty’s the same—if not Vronsky, then Levin. And she envies me, and hates me. And we all hate each other. I Kitty, Kitty me. Yes, that’s the truth. ‘Tiutkin, coiffeur.’ Je me fais coiffer par Tiutkin.... I’ll tell him that when he comes,’ she thought and smiled. But the same instant she remembered that she had no one now to tell anything amusing to. ‘And there’s nothing amusing, nothing mirthful, really. It’s all hateful. They’re singing for vespers, and how carefully that merchant crosses himself! as if he were afraid of missing something. Why these churches and this singing and this humbug? Simply to conceal that we all hate each other like these cab drivers who are abusing each other so angrily. Yashvin says, ‘He wants to strip me of my shirt, and I him of his.’ Yes, that’s the truth!’
‘他们把我看作是一个可怕的、不可理解的、好奇的东西！他能如此热情地告诉对方什么？”她盯着走过的两个男人想。 ‘一个人能告诉别人自己的感受吗？我本想告诉多莉，幸好我没有告诉她。她要是看到我的痛苦该多高兴啊！她本来会隐瞒这一点，但她的主要感受是高兴我因为她嫉妒我的幸福而受到惩罚。凯蒂，她会更高兴的。我怎么能看透她！她知道我对她丈夫比平时更加​​贴心。她嫉妒我、恨我。而且她还鄙视我。在她眼里我就是一个没有道德的女人。如果我是一个不道德的女人，我本可以让她的丈夫爱上我……如果我愿意的话。事实上，我确实很关心。有人对自己很满意。”当她看到一位肥胖、红润的绅士向她走来时，她想。他把她当成熟人，把他光亮的帽子举过光秃秃的脑袋，然后意识到自己的错误。 ‘他以为他认识我。嗯，他了解我，就像世界上任何人都了解我一样。我不认识自己。正如法国人所说，我知道自己的胃口。他们想要那个肮脏的冰淇淋，他们确实知道这一点。”她一边想，一边看着两个男孩拦住了一个冰淇淋小贩，小贩从头上取下了一个桶，开始用毛巾擦着满是汗的脸。 “我们都想要甜蜜美好的东西。如果不是甜食，那就是脏冰。基蒂也是一样——如果不是渥伦斯基，那就是莱文。而她又嫉妒我，又恨我。我们都互相憎恨。我是基蒂，基蒂是我。是的，这就是事实。 “Tiutkin，理发师。”Je me fais coiffer par Tiutkin……等他来的时候我会告诉他，”她微笑着想道。 但就在同一瞬间，她想起现在没有人可以告诉她任何有趣的事情了。 “真的，没有什么有趣的，没有什么令人高兴的。”都是可恨的。他们在唱晚祷，那个商人在胸前画十字是多么小心啊！就好像他害怕错过什么一样。为什么有这些教堂、这样的歌声和这样的骗局？只是为了掩盖我们都像这些出租车司机一样互相憎恨，他们如此愤怒地互相辱骂。亚什文说：“他想脱掉我的衬衫，我也想脱掉他的衬衫。”是的，这就是事实！’

She was plunged in these thoughts, which so engrossed her that she left off thinking of her own position, when the carriage drew up at the steps of her house. It was only when she saw the porter running out to meet her that she remembered she had sent the note and the telegram.
她全神贯注地沉浸在这些想法中，当马车停在她家的台阶上时，她就不再去想自己的处境了。直到看到搬运工跑出来迎接她时，她才想起自己已经把纸条和电报寄出去了。

‘Is there an answer?’ she inquired.
“有答案吗？”她问道。

‘I’ll see this minute,’ answered the porter, and glancing into his room, he took out and gave her the thin square envelope of a telegram. ‘I can’t come before ten o’clock.—Vronsky,’ she read.
“我马上就看。”门房回答道，朝自己的房间看了一眼，拿出一个薄薄的方形电报信封递给了她。 “十点钟之前我不能来。——渥伦斯基，”她念道。

‘And hasn’t the messenger come back?’
“那使者还没有回来吗？”

‘No,’ answered the porter.
“不，”搬运工回答。

‘Then, since it’s so, I know what I must do,’ she said, and feeling a vague fury and craving for revenge rising up within her, she ran upstairs. ‘I’ll go to him myself. Before going away forever, I’ll tell him all. Never have I hated anyone as I hate that man!’ she thought. Seeing his hat on the rack, she shuddered with aversion. She did not consider that his telegram was an answer to her telegram and that he had not yet received her note. She pictured him to herself as talking calmly to his mother and Princess Sorokina and rejoicing at her sufferings. ‘Yes, I must go quickly,’ she said, not knowing yet where she was going. She longed to get away as quickly as possible from the feelings she had gone through in that awful house. The servants, the walls, the things in that house—all aroused repulsion and hatred in her and lay like a weight upon her.
“那么，既然如此，我知道我必须做什么了，”她说，感到心中升起一股隐约的愤怒和复仇的渴望，她跑上楼。 ‘我亲自去见他。在永远离开之前，我会告诉他一切。我从来没有像恨那个人那样恨过任何人！”她想。看到架子上他的帽子，她厌恶得浑身发抖。她并不认为他的电报是对她电报的答复，而且他还没有收到她的照会。她想象着他正在平静地与他的母亲和索罗基娜公主交谈，并为她的痛苦感到高兴。 “是的，我必须快点走，”她说，还不知道自己要去哪里。她渴望尽快摆脱在那座可怕的房子里所经历的感情。仆人、墙壁、屋里的东西——这一切都引起了她的厌恶和憎恨，像沉重的负担一样压在她的身上。

‘Yes, I must go to the railway station, and if he’s not there, then go there and catch him.’ Anna looked at the railway timetable in the newspapers. An evening train went at two minutes past eight. ‘Yes, I shall be in time.’ She gave orders for the other horses to be put in the carriage, and packed in a traveling-bag the things needed for a few days. She knew she would never come back here again.
“是的，我必须去火车站，如果他不在，就去那里抓他。”安娜看着报纸上的火车时刻表。一趟晚班火车八点两分出发。 “是的，我会及时赶到的。”她吩咐把其他马匹都放进马车里，并把几天所需的东西装进旅行袋里。她知道她再也不会回到这里了。

Among the plans that came into her head she vaguely determined that after what would happen at the station or at the countess’s house, she would go as far as the first town on the Nizhni road and stop there.
在她脑海中浮现的计划中，她模糊地确定，在车站或伯爵夫人家里发生了什么事之后，她会一直走到下尼日路上的第一个城镇并在那里停下来。

Dinner was on the table; she went up, but the smell of the bread and cheese was enough to make her feel that all food was disgusting. She ordered the carriage and went out. The house threw a shadow now right across the street, but it was a bright evening and still warm in the sunshine. Annushka, who came down with her things, and Pyotr, who put the things in the carriage, and the coachman, evidently out of humor, were all hateful to her, and irritated her by their words and actions.
晚餐已经上桌了；她上去，但面包和奶酪的味道足以让她觉得所有的食物都很恶心。她吩咐了马车就出去了。房子现在在街对面投下了阴影，但那是一个明亮的夜晚，阳光下仍然温暖。带着东西下来的安努什卡，把东西放进马车的彼得，还有显然心情不好的车夫，都对她充满仇恨，他们的言行激怒了她。

‘I don’t want you, Pyotr.’
“我不需要你，彼得。”

‘But how about the ticket?’
“但是票怎么样？”

‘Well, as you like, it doesn’t matter,’ she said crossly.
“好吧，随你的便，没关系，”她生气地说。

Pyotr jumped on the box, and putting his arms akimbo, told the coachman to drive to the booking-office.
彼得跳上箱子，双手叉腰，告诉车夫把车开到售票处。

Chapter 30
第30章

‘Here it is again! Again I understand it all!’ Anna said to herself, as soon as the carriage had started and swaying lightly, rumbled over the tiny cobbles of the paved road, and again one impression followed rapidly upon another.
‘又来了！我又全明白了！”安娜自言自语道，马车一发动，轻轻摇晃，隆隆地驶过铺好的小鹅卵石路，一种印象又迅速接踵而至。

‘Yes; what was the last thing I thought of so clearly?’ she tried to recall it. ‘’Tiutkin, coiffeur?’—no, not that. Yes, of what Yashvin says, the struggle for existence and hatred is the one thing that holds men together. No, it’s a useless journey you’re making,’ she said, mentally addressing a party in a coach and four, evidently going for an excursion into the country. ‘And the dog you’re taking with you will be no help to you. You can’t get away from yourselves.’ Turning her eyes in the direction Pyotr had turned to look, she saw a factory hand almost dead drunk, with hanging head, being led away by a policeman. ‘Come, he’s found a quicker way,’ she thought. ‘Count Vronsky and I did not find that happiness either, though we expected so much from it.’ And now for the first time Anna turned that glaring light in which she was seeing everything on to her relations with him, which she had hitherto avoided thinking about. ‘What was it he sought in me? Not love so much as the satisfaction of vanity.’ She remembered his words, the expression of his face, that recalled an abject setter-dog, in the early days of their connection. And everything now confirmed this. ‘Yes, there was the triumph of success in him. Of course there was love too, but the chief element was the pride of success. He boasted of me. Now that’s over. There’s nothing to be proud of. Not to be proud of, but to be ashamed of. He has taken from me all he could, and now I am no use to him. He is weary of me and is trying not to be dishonorable in his behavior to me. He let that out yesterday—he wants divorce and marriage so as to burn his ships. He loves me, but how? The zest is gone, as the English say. That fellow wants everyone to admire him and is very much pleased with himself,’ she thought, looking at a red-faced clerk, riding on a riding school horse. ‘Yes, there’s not the same flavor about me for him now. If I go away from him, at the bottom of his heart he will be glad.’
'是的;我最后想得这么清楚的一件事是什么？”她试图回忆起来。 “蒂特金，理发师？”——不，不是那个。是的，正如亚什文所说，生存斗争和仇恨是让人们团结在一起的唯一因素。不，你正在做的这趟旅程毫无意义。”她一边说，一边在心里对一辆四人客车上的聚会说，显然是要去乡下短途旅行。 “而你带着的狗对你没有任何帮助。你无法摆脱自己。”她把目光转向彼得转过的方向，看到一名工厂工人喝得烂醉，低着头，被警察带走了。 “得了吧，他找到了更快的方法，”她想。 “渥伦斯基伯爵和我也没有找到那种幸福，尽管我们对它抱有很大的期望。”现在，安娜第一次将她所看到的一切的耀眼光芒转向了她与他的关系，这是她迄今为止一直回避的。思考。 ‘他在我身上寻找什么？与其说是爱，不如说是虚荣心的满足。”她记得他的话语，他脸上的表情，让人想起他们交往初期的一只卑鄙的塞特狗。现在一切都证实了这一点。 “是的，他身上充满了成功的喜悦。当然也有爱，但最主要的因素是成功的骄傲。他夸我。现在一切都结束了。没有什么值得骄傲的。不是值得骄傲，而是感到羞耻。他已经从我身上夺走了他能夺走的一切，现在我对他毫无用处了。他厌倦了我，并试图不让自己的行为对我来说是不光彩的。他昨天就说过了——他要离婚和结婚，以毁掉他的船。他爱我，但如何爱我？正如英国人所说，热情消失了。 那家伙想让所有人都佩服他，而且对自己很满意。”她看着骑着一匹骑术马的红脸店员，心里想。 “是的，现在我对他来说已经不一样了。”如果我离开他，他内心深处会很高兴。’

This was not mere supposition, she saw it distinctly in the piercing light, which revealed to her now the meaning of life and human relations.
这不仅仅是假设，她在刺眼的光芒中清楚地看到了这一点，这向她揭示了生命和人际关系的意义。

‘My love keeps growing more passionate and egoistic, while his is waning and waning, and that’s why we’re drifting apart.’ She went on musing. ‘And there’s no help for it. He is everything for me, and I want him more and more to give himself up to me entirely. And he wants more and more to get away from me. We walked to meet each other up to the time of our love, and then we have been irresistibly drifting in different directions. And there’s no altering that. He tells me I’m insanely jealous, and I have told myself that I am insanely jealous; but it’s not true. I’m not jealous, but I’m unsatisfied. But...’ she opened her lips, and shifted her place in the carriage in the excitement, aroused by the thought that suddenly struck her. ‘If I could be anything but a mistress, passionately caring for nothing but his caresses; but I can’t and I don’t care to be anything else. And by that desire I rouse aversion in him, and he rouses fury in me, and it cannot be different. Don’t I know that he wouldn’t deceive me, that he has no schemes about Princess Sorokina, that he’s not in love with Kitty, that he won’t desert me! I know all that, but it makes it no better for me. If without loving me, from duty he’ll be good and kind to me, without what I want, that’s a thousand times worse than unkindness! That’s—hell! And that’s just how it is. For a long while now he hasn’t loved me. And where love ends, hate begins. I don’t know these streets at all. Hills it seems, and still houses, and houses .... And in the houses always people and people.... How many of them, no end, and all hating each other! Come, let me try and think what I want, to make me happy. Well? Suppose I am divorced, and Alexey Alexandrovitch lets me have Seryozha, and I marry Vronsky.’ Thinking of Alexey Alexandrovitch, she at once pictured him with extraordinary vividness as though he were alive before her, with his mild, lifeless, dull eyes, the blue veins in his white hands, his intonations and the cracking of his fingers, and remembering the feeling which had existed between them, and which was also called love, she shuddered with loathing. ‘Well, I’m divorced, and become Vronsky’s wife. Well, will Kitty cease looking at me as she looked at me today? No. And will Seryozha leave off asking and wondering about my two husbands? And is there any new feeling I can awaken between Vronsky and me? Is there possible, if not happiness, some sort of ease from misery? No, no!’ she answered now without the slightest hesitation. ‘Impossible! We are drawn apart by life, and I make his unhappiness, and he mine, and there’s no altering him or me. Every attempt has been made, the screw has come unscrewed. Oh, a beggar woman with a baby. She thinks I’m sorry for her. Aren’t we all flung into the world only to hate each other, and so to torture ourselves and each other? Schoolboys coming—laughing Seryozha?’ she thought. ‘I thought, too, that I loved him, and used to be touched by my own tenderness. But I have lived without him, I gave him up for another love, and did not regret the exchange till that love was satisfied.’ And with loathing she thought of what she meant by that love. And the clearness with which she saw life now, her own and all men’s, was a pleasure to her. ‘It’s so with me and Pyotr, and the coachman, Fyodor, and that merchant, and all the people living along the Volga, where those placards invite one to go, and everywhere and always,’ she thought when she had driven under the low-pitched roof of the Nizhigorod station, and the porters ran to meet her.
“我的爱越来越热情、越来越自私，而他的爱却越来越少，这就是我们渐行渐远的原因。”她继续沉思。 ‘而且没有任何帮助。他对我来说就是一切，我越来越希望他完全把自己交给我。他越来越想远离我。我们一直走到相爱的时候，然后就不可抗拒地漂向不同的方向。这是无法改变的。他告诉我我嫉妒得发疯，我也告诉自己我嫉妒得发疯；但这不是真的。我不嫉妒，但我不满足。但是……”她张开嘴唇，兴奋地在马车上换了个位置，突然想到了这个念头。 “如果我除了做一个情妇以外什么都可以，除了他的爱抚之外什么都不热情地关心；但我不能也不想成为其他人。通过这种欲望，我激起了他的厌恶，他激起了我的愤怒，这不可能有什么不同。难道我不知道他不会欺骗我，他对索罗基娜公主没有任何阴谋，他不爱凯蒂，他不会抛弃我！我知道这一切，但这对我来说并没有什么好处。如果他不爱我，出于义务，对我好，对我好，却得不到我想要的，那比不仁慈还要恶劣千百倍！那是——见鬼！事情就是这样。他已经很久没有爱过我了。爱结束的地方，仇恨就开始了。我根本不认识这些街道。看起来是山，还有房子，房子……房子里总是人和人……有多少人，没有尽头，而且都互相憎恨！来吧，让我尝试思考我想要什么，让我快乐。出色地？假设我离婚了，阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇让我生了谢廖扎，然后我嫁给了渥伦斯基。”想到阿列克谢·亚历山德罗维奇，她立即异常生动地想象他就好像他还活着在她面前一样，他温和、毫无生气、呆滞的眼睛，他白皙的手上的青筋，他的语调和他手指的响声，并记得他们之间存在的那种感情，也被称为爱情，她厌恶得浑身发抖。 “好吧，我离婚了，成为渥伦斯基的妻子。好吧，基蒂会不再像今天那样看着我吗？不。谢廖扎会不再询问和疑惑我的两个丈夫吗？我和渥伦斯基之间有什么新的感觉可以唤醒吗？如果没有幸福的话，是否有可能从痛苦中得到某种缓解呢？不，不！”她毫不犹豫地回答。 '不可能的！我们被生活分开，我让他不快乐，他也让我不快乐，而我和他都无法改变。尽了一切努力，螺丝还是被拧开了。哦，一个带着婴儿的乞丐妇女。她认为我对不起她。我们来到这个世界不就是为了彼此憎恨，从而折磨自己和彼此吗？男生们来了——笑着谢廖扎？”她想。 “我也以为我爱他，并且曾经被自己的温柔所感动。但我已经没有他了，我为了另一种爱而放弃了他，在这份爱得到满足之前，我并不后悔这次交换。’她带着厌恶的心情想到了她所说的那种爱的含义。她现在能清晰地看待生活，无论是她自己的生活还是所有男人的生活，这对她来说是一种快乐。 “我和彼得，还有车夫费奥多尔，还有那个商人，还有所有生活在伏尔加河沿岸的人，那些标语牌邀请人们去那里，无论何时何地，都是如此，”当她在低洼处行驶时，她想道。 - 下尼日哥罗德车站的倾斜屋顶，搬运工跑去迎接她。

‘A ticket to Obiralovka?’ said Pyotr.
“去奥维拉洛夫卡的机票？”彼得问。

She had utterly forgotten where and why she was going, and only by a great effort she understood the question.
她完全忘记了自己要去哪里，为什么要去，费了好大劲才明白了这个问题。

‘Yes,’ she said, handing him her purse, and taking a little red bag in her hand, she got out of the carriage.
“是的。”她说着，把钱包递给他，手里拿着一个红色的小包，下了马车。

Making her way through the crowd to the first-class waiting-room, she gradually recollected all the details of her position, and the plans between which she was hesitating. And again at the old sore places, hope and then despair poisoned the wounds of her tortured, fearfully throbbing heart. As she sat on the star-shaped sofa waiting for the train, she gazed with aversion at the people coming and going (they were all hateful to her), and thought how she would arrive at the station, would write him a note, and what she would write to him, and how he was at this moment complaining to his mother of his position, not understanding her sufferings, and how she would go into the room, and what she would say to him. Then she thought that life might still be happy, and how miserably she loved and hated him, and how fearfully her heart was beating.
穿过人群，来到头等舱候机室，她逐渐回想起自己所处位置的所有细节，以及自己正在犹豫的计划。再次，在那些旧痛处，希望和绝望毒害了她那颗饱受折磨、可怕搏动的心的伤口。她坐在星形沙发上等车，厌恶地看着来来往往的人（他们都对她充满仇恨），想着她要如何到达车站，给他写一张纸条，然后她会写什么给他，他此刻如何向母亲抱怨自己的处境，不理解她的痛苦，以及她将如何走进房间，以及她会对他说些什么。然后她想，生活也许还是幸福的，她是多么痛苦地爱着他，恨着他，她的心跳得多么可怕。

Chapter 31
第31章

A bell rang, some young men, ugly and impudent, and at the same time careful of the impression they were making, hurried by. Pyotr, too, crossed the room in his livery and top-boots, with his dull, animal face, and came up to her to take her to the train. Some noisy men were quiet as she passed them on the platform, and one whispered something about her to another— something vile, no doubt. She stepped up on the high step, and sat down in a carriage by herself on a dirty seat that had been white. Her bag lay beside her, shaken up and down by the springiness of the seat. With a foolish smile Pyotr raised his hat, with its colored band, at the window, in token of farewell; an impudent conductor slammed the door and the latch. A grotesque-looking lady wearing a bustle (Anna mentally undressed the woman, and was appalled at her hideousness), and a little girl laughing affectedly ran down the platform.
铃声响起，一些丑陋无礼的年轻人匆匆走过。彼得也穿着制服和高统靴穿过房间，脸上表情呆滞，像动物一样，走到她面前带她去火车。当她在站台上经过时，一些吵闹的男人很安静，其中一个人对另一个人低声谈论了她的事情——毫无疑问，这是一些卑鄙的事情。她走上高高的台阶，一个人坐在马车里一张脏兮兮、本来是白色的座位上。她的包放在她身边，因座椅的弹性而上下摇晃。彼得带着傻乎乎的微笑，举起窗边戴着彩色饰带的帽子，以示告别。一个无礼的售票员砰地关上了门和插销。一位穿着裙子的奇形怪状的女士（安娜在心里脱掉了这位女士的衣服，并对她的丑陋感到震惊），一个小女孩假装笑着跑下站台。

‘Katerina Andreevna, she’s got them all, ma tante!’ cried the girl.
“卡捷琳娜·安德烈耶夫娜，她已经拥有了所有这些，ma tante！”女孩喊道。

‘Even the child’s hideous and affected,’ thought Anna. To avoid seeing anyone, she got up quickly and seated herself at the opposite window of the empty carriage. A misshapen-looking peasant covered with dirt, in a cap from which his tangled hair stuck out all round, passed by that window, stooping down to the carriage wheels. ‘There’s something familiar about that hideous peasant,’ thought Anna. And remembering her dream, she moved away to the opposite door, shaking with terror. The conductor opened the door and let in a man and his wife.
“就连那孩子也丑陋而做作，”安娜想。为了避免见到任何人，她连忙起身，坐在了空荡荡的车厢对面的窗户处。一个长相奇形怪状的农夫，满身泥土，戴着帽子，头发乱七八糟地从窗外走过，弯腰走到马车车轮旁。 “那个丑陋的农民身上有一些熟悉的东西，”安娜想。想起她的梦，她向对面的门走去，恐惧得浑身发抖。售票员打开门，让一对夫妇进来。

‘Do you wish to get out?’
“你想出去吗？”

Anna made no answer. The conductor and her two fellow-passengers did not notice under her veil her panic-stricken face. She went back to her corner and sat down. The couple seated themselves on the opposite side, and intently but surreptitiously scrutinized her clothes. Both husband and wife seemed repulsive to Anna. The husband asked, would she allow him to smoke, obviously not with a view to smoking but to getting into conversation with her. Receiving her assent, he said to his wife in French something about caring less to smoke than to talk. They made inane and affected remarks to one another, entirely for her benefit. Anna saw clearly that they were sick of each other, and hated each other. And no one could have helped hating such miserable monstrosities.
安娜没有回答。售票员和她的两名乘客没有注意到她面纱下那张惊慌失措的脸。她回到自己的角落坐下。夫妻俩坐在对面，专注而又偷偷地打量着她的衣着。夫妻俩似乎都对安娜感到厌恶。丈夫问，她能允许他抽烟吗，显然不是为了抽烟，而是为了和她攀谈。得到她的同意后，他用法语对妻子说了一些“少抽烟多聊天”的话。他们互相发表愚蠢而做作的言论，完全是为了她的利益。安娜清楚地看到他们互相厌倦，互相憎恨。没有人会对这种可悲的怪物产生厌恶之情。

A second bell sounded, and was followed by moving of luggage, noise, shouting and laughter. It was so clear to Anna that there was nothing for anyone to be glad of, that this laughter irritated her agonizingly, and she would have liked to stop up her ears not to hear it. At last the third bell rang, there was a whistle and a hiss of steam, and a clank of chains, and the man in her carriage crossed himself. ‘It would be interesting to ask him what meaning he attaches to that,’ thought Anna, looking angrily at him. She looked past the lady out of the window at the people who seemed whirling by as they ran beside the train or stood on the platform. The train, jerking at regular intervals at the junctions of the rails, rolled by the platform, past a stone wall, a signal-box, past other trains; the wheels, moving more smoothly and evenly, resounded with a slight clang on the rails. The window was lighted up by the bright evening sun, and a slight breeze fluttered the curtain. Anna forgot her fellow passengers, and to the light swaying of the train she fell to thinking again, as she breathed the fresh air.
第二声铃声响起，随之而来的是行李搬运、噪音、喊叫和笑声。安娜很清楚，没有什么值得任何人高兴的，这笑声让她痛苦不已，她宁愿堵住耳朵不听。最后，第三声铃声响起，伴随着汽笛声和蒸汽的嘶嘶声，还有铁链的叮当声，马车里的男人在胸前画了十字。 “问他这件事有何意义，一定很有趣。”安娜愤怒地看着他，心想。她的目光越过那位女士，望向窗外那些似乎在火车旁边或站在站台上旋转而过的人们。火车在铁轨的交汇处每隔一定时间猛烈地颠簸，滚过站台，经过一堵石墙、一个信号箱，经过其他火车；车轮移动得更加平稳、平稳，在铁轨上发出轻微的叮当声。傍晚的阳光照亮了窗子，微风吹动着窗帘。安娜忘记了其他乘客，呼吸着新鲜空气，在火车摇曳的灯光下，她再次开始思考。

‘Yes, what did I stop at? That I couldn’t conceive a position in which life would not be a misery, that we are all created to be miserable, and that we all know it, and all invent means of deceiving each other. And when one sees the truth, what is one to do?’
‘是啊，我停在什么地方了？我无法想象生活不会是痛苦的，我们生来就是痛苦的，我们都知道这一点，并且都发明了互相欺骗的手段。当一个人看到真相时，该做什么呢？

‘That’s what reason is given man for, to escape from what worries him,’ said the lady in French, lisping affectedly, and obviously pleased with her phrase.
“这就是男人被赋予的理由，逃避他所担心的事情，”那位女士用法语说道，口齿不清，显然对她的这句话很满意。

The words seemed an answer to Anna’s thoughts.
这句话似乎是对安娜的想法的回答。

‘To escape from what worries him,’ repeated Anna. And glancing at the red-cheeked husband and the thin wife, she saw that the sickly wife considered herself misunderstood, and the husband deceived her and encouraged her in that idea of herself. Anna seemed to see all their history and all the crannies of their souls, as it were turning a light upon them. But there was nothing interesting in them, and she pursued her thought.
“为了逃避让他担心的事情，”安娜重复道。她又看了一眼脸颊通红的丈夫和瘦弱的妻子，发现体弱多病的妻子认为自己被误解了，丈夫欺骗了她，鼓励了她的这种想法。安娜似乎看到了他们所有的历史和他们灵魂的所有缝隙，就像它们照亮了他们一样。但它们并没有什么有趣的地方，她继续自己的想法。

‘Yes, I’m very much worried, and that’s what reason was given me for, to escape; so then one must escape: why not put out the light when there’s nothing more to look at, when it’s sickening to look at it all? But how? Why did the conductor run along the footboard, why are they shrieking, those young men in that train? why are they talking, why are they laughing? It’s all falsehood, all lying, all humbug, all cruelty!...’
“是的，我非常担心，这就是给我逃跑的理由；因此，人们必须逃避：当没有什么可看的时候，当看到这一切都令人作呕时，为什么不把灯关掉呢？但如何呢？为什么列车员沿着踏板奔跑，为什么火车上的那些年轻人尖叫？他们为什么说话，为什么笑？这都是谎言，都是谎言，都是骗局，都是残忍！……”

When the train came into the station, Anna got out into the crowd of passengers, and moving apart from them as if they were lepers, she stood on the platform, trying to think what she had come here for, and what she meant to do. Everything that had seemed to her possible before was now so difficult to consider, especially in this noisy crowd of hideous people who would not leave her alone. One moment porters ran up to her proffering their services, then young men, clacking their heels on the planks of the platform and talking loudly, stared at her; people meeting her dodged past on the wrong side. Remembering that she had meant to go on further if there were no answer, she stopped a porter and asked if her coachman were not here with a note from Count Vronsky.
当火车进站时，安娜走进了乘客群中，像麻风病人一样与他们分开，她站在站台上，试图思考她来这里的目的，以及她打算做什么。以前在她看来一切可能的事情现在都变得如此难以考虑，尤其是在这群吵闹的、可怕的人中间，他们不肯让她一个人呆着。一会儿，搬运工跑到她面前主动提出服务，然后年轻的男人们用脚后跟踩着站台的木板，大声说话，盯着她看。遇见她的人都从错误的一边躲过去。她想起如果没有人回答，她就打算继续往前走，于是她拦住了一个搬运工，问她的车夫是否在这里，并带着渥伦斯基伯爵的纸条。

‘Count Vronsky? They sent up here from the Vronskys just this minute, to meet Princess Sorokina and her daughter. And what is the coachman like?’
“渥伦斯基伯爵？他们就在此时从渥伦斯基家派人到这里来会见索罗基娜公主和她的女儿。车夫是什么样的人？

Just as she was talking to the porter, the coachman Mihail, red and cheerful in his smart blue coat and chain, evidently proud of having so successfully performed his commission, came up to her and gave her a letter. She broke it open, and her heart ached before she had read it.
就在她和搬运工说话的时候，车夫米哈伊尔走到她面前，递给她一封信，他穿着漂亮的蓝色外套，戴着链子，脸色通红，心情愉快，显然为自己如此成功地完成了自己的任务感到自豪。她打开它，还没读完，她的心就痛了。

‘I am very sorry your note did not reach me. I will be home at ten,’ Vronsky had written carelessly....
“我很抱歉你的留言没有到达我手中。 “我十点钟到家。”渥伦斯基漫不经心地写道……

‘Yes, that’s what I expected!’ she said to herself with an evil smile.
“是的，这正是我所期望的！”她邪恶地笑着自言自语道。

‘Very good, you can go home then,’ she said softly, addressing Mihail. She spoke softly because the rapidity of her heart’s beating hindered her breathing. ‘No, I won’t let you make me miserable,’ she thought menacingly, addressing not him, not herself, but the power that made her suffer, and she walked along the platform.
“很好，那么你可以回家了。”她对米哈伊尔轻声说道。她说话的声音很轻，因为心跳的加快阻碍了她的呼吸。 “不，我不会让你让我痛苦，”她威胁地想，不是对他，不是对她自己，而是对让她受苦的力量，然后她沿着平台走去。

Two maidservants walking along the platform turned their heads, staring at her and making some remarks about her dress. ‘Real,’ they said of the lace she was wearing. The young men would not leave her in peace. Again they passed by, peering into her face, and with a laugh shouting something in an unnatural voice. The station-master coming up asked her whether she was going by train. A boy selling kvas never took his eyes off her. ‘My God! where am I to go?’ she thought, going farther and farther along the platform. At the end she stopped. Some ladies and children, who had come to meet a gentleman in spectacles, paused in their loud laughter and talking, and stared at her as she reached them. She quickened her pace and walked away from them to the edge of the platform. A luggage train was coming in. The platform began to sway, and she fancied she was in the train again.
两个走在月台上的丫鬟回头，盯着她，对她的着装议论纷纷。 “真的，”他们谈到她所穿的蕾丝时说道。年轻人不会让她安静。他们再次经过，凝视着她的脸，笑着用不自然的声音喊着什么。站长走过来问她是否坐火车去。卖格瓦斯的男孩始终目不转睛地盯着她。 '我的上帝！我该去哪里？”她一边想，一边沿着站台越走越远。最后她停了下来。一些前来迎接一位戴眼镜的绅士的女士和孩子们在她走近时停下了大声的笑声和谈话，盯着她看。她加快了脚步，离开了他们，走到了站台边缘。一列行李列车驶来。月台开始摇晃，她感觉自己又回到了火车里。

And all at once she thought of the man crushed by the train the day she had first met Vronsky, and she knew what she had to do. With a rapid, light step she went down the steps that led from the tank to the rails and stopped quite near the approaching train.
她突然想起了她第一次见到渥伦斯基那天被火车压死的那个人，她知道自己必须做什么。她迈着轻快的步伐走下从坦克到铁轨的台阶，停在靠近驶来的火车的地方。

She looked at the lower part of the carriages, at the screws and chains and the tall cast-iron wheel of the first carriage slowly moving up, and trying to measure the middle between the front and back wheels, and the very minute when that middle point would be opposite her.
她看着车厢的下部，看着螺丝和链条，还有第一节车厢缓缓向上移动的高高的铸铁轮，并试图测量前轮和后轮之间的中间，以及那个中间的那一刻。点将在她对面。

‘There,’ she said to herself, looking into the shadow of the carriage, at the sand and coal dust which covered the sleepers— ‘there, in the very middle, and I will punish him and escape from everyone and from myself.’
“就在那里，”她看着马车的影子，看着铺在枕木上的沙子和煤尘，自言自语道，“就在那里，就在中间，我要惩罚他，逃离所有人和我自己。”

She tried to fling herself below the wheels of the first carriage as it reached her; but the red bag which she tried to drop out of her hand delayed her, and she was too late; she missed the moment. She had to wait for the next carriage. A feeling such as she had known when about to take the first plunge in bathing came upon her, and she crossed herself. That familiar gesture brought back into her soul a whole series of girlish and childish memories, and suddenly the darkness that had covered everything for her was torn apart, and life rose up before her for an instant with all its bright past joys. But she did not take her eyes from the wheels of the second carriage. And exactly at the moment when the space between the wheels came opposite her, she dropped the red bag, and drawing her head back into her shoulders, fell on her hands under the carriage, and lightly, as though she would rise again at once, dropped on to her knees. And at the same instant she was terror-stricken at what she was doing. ‘Where am I? What am I doing? What for?’ She tried to get up, to drop backwards; but something huge and merciless struck her on the head and rolled her on her back. ‘Lord, forgive me all!’ she said, feeling it impossible to struggle. A peasant muttering something was working at the iron above her. And the light by which she had read the book filled with troubles, falsehoods, sorrow, and evil, flared up more brightly than ever before, lighted up for her all that had been in darkness, flickered, began to grow dim, and was quenched forever.
当第一辆马车驶近她时，她试图跳到它的轮子下面。但她试图把红色的袋子从她手中扔掉，却耽误了她，但她已经来不及了。她错过了这一刻。她必须等待下一趟马车。一种她在第一次洗澡时就有的感觉涌上心头，她在胸前画了一个十字。那熟悉的动作，让她的灵魂中回想起一连串少女般的童年记忆，突然间，笼罩着她一切的黑暗被撕裂，生活瞬间浮现在她的面前，带着往日明亮的欢乐。但她的目光始终没有离开第二辆马车的车轮。就在车轮之间的空间来到她对面的那一刻，她放下了红色的袋子，把头缩回到肩膀上，双手伏在马车下面，轻轻地，好像她会立即再次站起来一样，跪倒在地。与此同时，她对自己所做的事情感到恐惧。 '我在哪里？我在做什么？为什么？”她试图站起来，向后倒去。但有一个巨大而无情的东西击中了她的头部，并把她滚到了地上。 “主啊，请宽恕我一切！”她说道，感觉无法挣扎。一个农民正在她上方的熨斗上工作，嘀咕着什么。她读到的这本书充满了烦恼、谎言、悲伤和邪恶，所发出的光芒比以往任何时候都更加明亮，为她照亮了黑暗中的一切，忽隐忽现，开始变得暗淡，最后熄灭了。永远。

PART 8
第 8 部分

Chapter 1
第1章

Almost two months had passed. The hot summer was half over, but Sergey Ivanovitch was only just preparing to leave Moscow.
快两个月过去了。炎热的夏天已经过去了一半，但谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇才刚刚准备离开莫斯科。

Sergey Ivanovitch’s life had not been uneventful during this time. A year ago he had finished his book, the fruit of six years’ labor, ‘Sketch of a Survey of the Principles and Forms of Government in Europe and Russia.’ Several sections of this book and its introduction had appeared in periodical publications, and other parts had been read by Sergey Ivanovitch to persons of his circle, so that the leading ideas of the work could not be completely novel to the public. But still Sergey Ivanovitch had expected that on its appearance his book would be sure to make a serious impression on society, and if it did not cause a revolution in social science it would, at any rate, make a great stir in the scientific world.
谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇这段时间的生活并不平静。一年前，他完成了他的书，这是六年劳动的成果，《欧洲和俄罗斯政府原则和形式的调查草图》。这本书的几个部分及其介绍已经出现在期刊出版物上，并且谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇向他的圈子里的人朗读了其他部分，因此该书的主要思想对公众来说不可能是完全新颖的。但谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇仍然预计，他的书一经问世，一定会给社会留下深刻的印象，即使它没有引起社会科学的革命，至少也会在科学界引起轰动。

After the most conscientious revision the book had last year been published, and had been distributed among the booksellers.
经过最认真的修改，这本书已于去年出版，并在书商中分发。

Though he asked no one about it, reluctantly and with feigned indifference answered his friends’ inquiries as to how the book was going, and did not even inquire of the booksellers how the book was selling, Sergey Ivanovitch was all on the alert, with strained attention, watching for the first impression his book would make in the world and in literature.
尽管他没有向任何人询问这件事，只是勉强地、假装漠不关心地回答了朋友们关于这本书进展如何的询问，甚至没有询问书商这本书的销售情况，但谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇却始终保持着警惕，紧张不已。注意力，观察他的书给世界和文学留下的第一印象。

But a week passed, a second, a third, and in society no impression whatever could be detected. His friends who were specialists and savants, occasionally—unmistakably from politeness—alluded to it. The rest of his acquaintances, not interested in a book on a learned subject, did not talk of it at all. And society generally—just now especially absorbed in other things—was absolutely indifferent. In the press, too, for a whole month there was not a word about his book.
但一周过去了，第二个、第三个，在社会上却找不到任何印象。他的朋友们都是专家和学者，偶尔——毫无疑问是出于礼貌——会提到这一点。他的其他熟人对一本有关学术主题的书不感兴趣，根本没有谈论它。而整个社会——尤其是现在，全神贯注于其他事情——绝对是漠不关心的。媒体上也整整一个月没有提及他的书。

Sergey Ivanovitch had calculated to a nicety the time necessary for writing a review, but a month passed, and a second, and still there was silence.
谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇精确地计算出了撰写评论所需的时间，但是一个月过去了，一秒钟过去了，仍然一片寂静。

Only in the Northern Beetle, in a comic article on the singer Drabanti, who had lost his voice, there was a contemptuous allusion to Koznishev’s book, suggesting that the book had been long ago seen through by everyone, and was a subject of general ridicule.
只有《北方甲壳虫》在一篇关于失声歌手德拉班蒂的漫画文章中，轻蔑地提到了科兹尼舍夫的书，暗示这本书早已被大家看穿，成为普遍嘲笑的对象。 。

At last in the third month a critical article appeared in a serious review. Sergey Ivanovitch knew the author of the article. He had met him once at Golubtsov’s.
最后，在第三个月，一篇严肃的评论中出现了一篇批评文章。谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇认识这篇文章的作者。他在戈卢布佐夫家见过他一次。

The author of the article was a young man, an invalid, very bold as a writer, but extremely deficient in breeding and shy in personal relations.
这篇文章的作者是一个年轻人，一个病人，作为一个作家非常大胆，但在教养上却极其缺乏，在人际关系上害羞。

In spite of his absolute contempt for the author, it was with complete respect that Sergey Ivanovitch set about reading the article. The article was awful.
尽管谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇对作者表示绝对的蔑视，但他还是怀着完全的敬意开始阅读这篇文章。这篇文章太糟糕了。

The critic had undoubtedly put an interpretation upon the book which could not possibly be put on it. But he had selected quotations so adroitly that for people who had not read the book (and obviously scarcely anyone had read it) it seemed absolutely clear that the whole book was nothing but a medley of high-flown phrases, not even—as suggested by marks of interrogation—used appropriately, and that the author of the book was a person absolutely without knowledge of the subject. And all this was so wittily done that Sergey Ivanovitch would not have disowned such wit himself. But that was just what was so awful.
毫无疑问，批评家对这本书做出了不可能的解释。但他如此巧妙地选择了引文，以至于对于没有读过这本书的人（显然几乎没有人读过它）来说，似乎绝对清楚整本书只不过是一些华丽短语的混合体，甚至不是——正如审讯的痕迹——使用得当，而且这本书的作者是一个完全不了解这个主题的人。所有这一切都做得如此机智，谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇本人不会否认这种机智。但这正是可怕的地方。

In spite of the scrupulous conscientiousness with which Sergey Ivanovitch verified the correctness of the critic’s arguments, he did not for a minute stop to ponder over the faults and mistakes which were ridiculed; but unconsciously he began immediately trying to recall every detail of his meeting and conversation with the author of the article.
尽管谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇非常认真地验证了批评者论点的正确性，但他一刻也没有停下来思考那些被嘲笑的过错和错误；但他无意识地立即开始回忆他与文章作者会面和谈话的每一个细节。

‘Didn’t I offend him in some way?’ Sergey Ivanovitch wondered.
“我是不是在某些方面冒犯了他？”谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇想道。

And remembering that when they met he had corrected the young man about something he had said that betrayed ignorance, Sergey Ivanovitch found the clue to explain the article.
谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇想起当他们见面时，他纠正了年轻人所说的一些暴露无知的话，谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇找到了解释这篇文章的线索。

This article was followed by a deadly silence about the book both in the press and in conversation, and Sergey Ivanovitch saw that his six years’ task, toiled at with such love and labor, had gone, leaving no trace.
这篇文章发表后，媒体和谈话中都对这本书陷入了死一般的沉默，谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇发现，他六年来辛勤付出的工作已经消失，没有留下任何痕迹。

Sergey Ivanovitch’s position was still more difficult from the fact that, since he had finished his book, he had had no more literary work to do, such as had hitherto occupied the greater part of his time.
谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇的处境更加困难，因为自从他写完书后，他就没有更多的文学工作要做，而迄今为止，这些工作占据了他大部分的时间。

Sergey Ivanovitch was clever, cultivated, healthy, and energetic, and he did not know what use to make of his energy. Conversations in drawing rooms, in meetings, assemblies, and committees—everywhere where talk was possible—took up part of his time. But being used for years to town life, he did not waste all his energies in talk, as his less experienced younger brother did, when he was in Moscow. He had a great deal of leisure and intellectual energy still to dispose of.
谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇很聪明，有教养，身体健康，精力充沛，但他不知道自己的精力有什么用。在客厅、会议、集会和委员会中的谈话——任何可以谈话的地方——占据了他的部分时间。但由于多年来习惯了城市生活，他并没有像他经验不足的弟弟在莫斯科时那样，把所有的精力都浪费在谈话上。他还有大量的闲暇和智力精力需要支配。

Fortunately for him, at this period so difficult for him from the failure of his book, the various public questions of the dissenting sects, of the American alliance, of the Samara famine, of exhibitions, and of spiritualism, were definitely replaced in public interest by the Slavonic question, which had hitherto rather languidly interested society, and Sergey Ivanovitch, who had been one of the first to raise this subject, threw himself into it heart and soul.
对他来说幸运的是，在他的书的失败对他来说如此困难的时期，持不同政见的教派、美国联盟、萨马拉饥荒、展览和招魂术的各种公共问题肯定被公共利益所取代。迄今为止，社会对斯拉夫问题兴趣不大，谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇是最早提出这个问题的人之一，他全心全意地投入其中。

In the circle to which Sergey Ivanovitch belonged, nothing was talked of or written about just now but the Servian War. Everything that the idle crowd usually does to kill time was done now for the benefit of the Slavonic States. Balls, concerts, dinners, matchboxes, ladies’ dresses, beer, restaurants— everything testified to sympathy with the Slavonic peoples.
在谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇所属的圈子里，除了塞尔维亚战争之外，现在没有任何人谈论或写过任何事情。游手好闲的人们通常用来消磨时间的一切现在都是为了斯拉夫国家的利益而做的。舞会、音乐会、晚宴、火柴盒、女装、啤酒、餐馆——一切都证明了对斯拉夫人民的同情。

From much of what was spoken and written on the subject, Sergey Ivanovitch differed on various points. He saw that the Slavonic question had become one of those fashionable distractions which succeed one another in providing society with an object and an occupation. He saw, too, that a great many people were taking up the subject from motives of self-interest and self-advertisement. He recognized that the newspapers published a great deal that was superfluous and exaggerated, with the sole aim of attracting attention and outbidding one another. He saw that in this general movement those who thrust themselves most forward and shouted the loudest were men who had failed and were smarting under a sense of injury—generals without armies, ministers not in the ministry, journalists not on any paper, party leaders without followers. He saw that there was a great deal in it that was frivolous and absurd. But he saw and recognized an unmistakable growing enthusiasm, uniting all classes, with which it was impossible not to sympathize. The massacre of men who were fellow Christians, and of the same Slavonic race, excited sympathy for the sufferers and indignation against the oppressors. And the heroism of the Servians and Montenegrins struggling for a great cause begot in the whole people a longing to help their brothers not in word but in deed.
从有关该主题的大部分口头和书面内容来看，谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇在多个观点上存在不同意见。他看到斯拉夫问题已经成为一种时尚的消遣，它们相继为社会提供了一种目标和一种职业。他还看到，很多人出于自身利益和自我宣传的动机而讨论这个话题。他认识到，报纸发表了大量多余和夸大的文章，其唯一目的是吸引注意力和竞价。他看到，在这场总运动中，最前卫、喊得最响亮的，是失败者，是那些在受伤的感觉中痛苦的人——没有军队的将军，不在部里的部长，不在报纸上的记者，不在报纸上的党的领导人。追随者。他发现其中有很多内容是轻率和荒谬的。但他看到并认识到一种明显增长的热情，将所有阶级团结在一起，对此不可能不表示同情。对同一斯拉夫种族的基督徒同胞的屠杀激起了人们对受害者的同情和对压迫者的愤慨。塞尔维亚人和黑山人为伟大事业而奋斗的英雄主义使全体人民渴望帮助他们的兄弟，不是在口头上，而是在行动上。

But in this there was another aspect that rejoiced Sergey Ivanovitch. That was the manifestation of public opinion. The public had definitely expressed its desire. The soul of the people had, as Sergey Ivanovitch said, found expression. And the more he worked in this cause, the more incontestable it seemed to him that it was a cause destined to assume vast dimensions, to create an epoch.
但谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇还有另一个方面感到高兴。这就是舆论的体现。公众明确表达了这一愿望。正如谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇所说，人民的灵魂得到了表达。他在这项事业上付出的努力越多，他就越觉得这是一项无可争议的事业，注定会具有广阔的规模，注定要创造一个时代。

He threw himself heart and soul into the service of this great cause, and forgot to think about his book. His whole time now was engrossed by it, so that he could scarcely manage to answer all the letters and appeals addressed to him. He worked the whole spring and part of the summer, and it was only in July that he prepared to go away to his brother’s in the country.
他全身心地投入到这项伟大事业中，却忘记了思考他的书。现在他的全部时间都被这件事占据了，以至于他几乎无法回复所有发给他的信件和呼吁。他整个春天和夏天的一部分时间都在工作，直到七月他才准备去乡下的哥哥那里。

He was going both to rest for a fortnight, and in the very heart of the people, in the farthest wilds of the country, to enjoy the sight of that uplifting of the spirit of the people, of which, like all residents in the capital and big towns, he was fully persuaded. Katavasov had long been meaning to carry out his promise to stay with Levin, and so he was going with him.
他要去休息两周，在人民的中心，在这个国家最遥远的荒野，欣赏人民精神振奋的景象，就像首都的所有居民一样和大城镇，他完全被说服了。卡塔瓦索夫早就想履行与莱文在一起的诺言，所以他要和他一起去。

Chapter 2
第2章

Sergey Ivanovitch and Katavasov had only just reached the station of the Kursk line, which was particularly busy and full of people that day, when, looking round for the groom who was following with their things, they saw a party of volunteers driving up in four cabs. Ladies met them with bouquets of flowers, and followed by the rushing crowd they went into the station.
谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇和卡塔瓦索夫刚刚到达库尔斯克线车站，那天车站特别繁忙，人满为患，当他们环顾四周寻找带着东西跟在后面的新郎时，看到一队志愿者开着四辆汽车过来。出租车。女士们手捧鲜花迎接他们，然后在熙熙攘攘的人群中走进车站。

One of the ladies, who had met the volunteers, came out of the hall and addressed Sergey Ivanovitch.
一位见过志愿者的女士走出大厅，向谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇讲话。

‘You too come to see them off?’ she asked in French.
“你也来送行吗？”她用法语问道。

‘No, I’m going away myself, princess. To my brother’s for a holiday. Do you always see them off?’ said Sergey Ivanovitch with a hardly perceptible smile.
“不，我要亲自离开，公主。去我哥哥家度假。你总是送他们吗？”谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇带着难以察觉的微笑说道。

‘Oh, that would be impossible!’ answered the princess. ‘Is it true that eight hundred have been sent from us already? Malvinsky wouldn’t believe me.’
“哦，那是不可能的！”公主回答道。 ‘我们真的已经派出了八百人吗？马尔文斯基不会相信我。

‘More than eight hundred. If you reckon those who have been sent not directly from Moscow, over a thousand,’ answered Sergey Ivanovitch.
‘八百多个。如果你算一下那些不是直接从莫斯科派来的人，有一千多人。”谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇回答道。

‘There! That’s just what I said!’ exclaimed the lady. ‘And it’s true too, I suppose, that more than a million has been subscribed?’
'那里！我就是这么说的！”那位女士惊呼道。 “我想，订阅人数也超过了一百万，这也是真的吗？”

‘Yes, princess.’
“是的，公主。”

‘What do you say to today’s telegram? Beaten the Turks again.’
“你对今天的电报有何看法？再次击败土耳其人。

‘Yes, so I saw,’ answered Sergey Ivanovitch. They were speaking of the last telegram stating that the Turks had been for three days in succession beaten at all points and put to flight, and that tomorrow a decisive engagement was expected.
“是的，我是这么看的，”谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇回答道。他们正在谈论最后一封电报，电报称土耳其人已连续三天在所有地点被击败并被赶走，预计明天将发生决定性的交战。

‘Ah, by the way, a splendid young fellow has asked leave to go, and they’ve made some difficulty, I don’t know why. I meant to ask you; I know him; please write a note about his case. He’s being sent by Countess Lidia Ivanovna.’
‘啊，对了，一个出色的年轻人请假走了，他们遇到了一些困难，我不知道为什么。我本来想问你；我认识他;请写下关于他的案例的说明。他是莉迪亚·伊万诺夫娜伯爵夫人派来的。

Sergey Ivanovitch asked for all the details the princess knew about the young man, and going into the first-class waiting-room, wrote a note to the person on whom the granting of leave of absence depended, and handed it to the princess.
谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇询问了公主所知道的关于这个年轻人的所有细节，然后走进头等舱候诊室，给请假的人写了一张纸条，然后交给了​​公主。

‘You know Count Vronsky, the notorious one...is going by this train?’ said the princess with a smile full of triumph and meaning, when he found her again and gave her the letter.
“你知道臭名昭著的渥伦斯基伯爵……要坐这列火车吗？”当他再次找到她并把信交给她时，公主带着充满胜利和意味深长的微笑说道。

‘I had heard he was going, but I did not know when. By this train?’
“我听说他要走，但不知道什么时候。坐这趟火车吗？

‘I’ve seen him. He’s here: there’s only his mother seeing him off. It’s the best thing, anyway, that he could do.’
‘我见过他。他在这里：只有他的母亲送行。无论如何，这是他能做的最好的事情。

‘Oh, yes, of course.’
'哦，是的，当然。'

While they were talking the crowd streamed by them into the dining room. They went forward too, and heard a gentleman with a glass in his hand delivering a loud discourse to the volunteers. ‘In the service of religion, humanity, and our brothers,’ the gentleman said, his voice growing louder and louder; ‘to this great cause mother Moscow dedicates you with her blessing. Jivio!’ he concluded, loudly and tearfully.
当他们说话的时候，人群从他们身边涌入餐厅。他们也往前走，就听见一位端着酒杯的绅士正在大声地向志愿者们讲话。 “为宗教、人类和我们的兄弟服务，”这位绅士说道，他的声音越来越大。 “为了这一伟大事业，莫斯科母亲将她的祝福奉献给你。 “吉维奥！”他大声地、含泪地总结道。

Everyone shouted Jivio! and a fresh crowd dashed into the hall, almost carrying the princess off her legs.
大家都喊着吉维奥！一群新的人群冲进大厅，差点把公主从腿上抱下来。

‘Ah, princess! that was something like!’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch, suddenly appearing in the middle of the crowd and beaming upon them with a delighted smile. ‘Capitally, warmly said, wasn’t it? Bravo! And Sergey Ivanovitch! Why, you ought to have said something—just a few words, you know, to encourage them; you do that so well,’ he added with a soft, respectful, and discreet smile, moving Sergey Ivanovitch forward a little by the arm.
‘啊，公主！ “就像是这样！”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇突然出现在人群中间，对着他们露出高兴的微笑。 ‘大体上，热情地说，不是吗？太棒了！还有谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇！哎呀，你应该说点什么——只是几句话，你知道，鼓励他们； “你做得很好，”他带着柔和、尊重和谨慎的微笑补充道，并拉着谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇的手臂向前挪了一点。

‘No, I’m just off.’
“不用了，我刚刚出去。”

‘Where to?’
'去哪儿？'

‘To the country, to my brother’s,’ answered Sergey Ivanovitch.
“到乡村，到我兄弟的国家，”谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇回答。

‘Then you’ll see my wife. I’ve written to her, but you’ll see her first. Please tell her that they’ve seen me and that it’s ‘all right,’ as the English say. She’ll understand. Oh, and be so good as to tell her I’m appointed secretary of the committee.... But she’ll understand! You know, les petites miseres de la vie humaine,’ he said, as it were apologizing to the princess. ‘And Princess Myakaya—not Liza, but Bibish—is sending a thousand guns and twelve nurses. Did I tell you?’
‘然后你就会见到我的妻子。我已经写信给她了，但你会先见到她。请告诉她他们已经看到我了，正如英国人所说，“没关系”。她会明白的。哦，请好心告诉她我被任命为委员会秘书……但她会理解的！你知道，人类生活中的小可怜，”他一边说，一边向公主道歉。 “米卡娅公主——不是丽莎，而是比比什——正在派出一千支枪和十二名护士。我告诉你了吗？'

‘Yes, I heard so,’ answered Koznishev indifferently.
“是的，我听说了。”科兹尼舍夫冷漠地回答。

‘It’s a pity you’re going away,’ said Stepan Arkadyevitch. ‘Tomorrow we’re giving a dinner to two who’re setting off— Dimer-Bartnyansky from Petersburg and our Veslovsky, Grisha. They’re both going. Veslovsky’s only lately married. There’s a fine fellow for you! Eh, princess?’ he turned to the lady.
“很遗憾你要走了，”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇说。 “明天我们要招待两位即将出发的人——来自彼得堡的迪默-巴特尼亚斯基和我们的韦斯洛夫斯基格里沙。他们都要去。韦斯洛夫斯基最近才结婚。有一个好人适合你！呃，公主？”他转向那位女士。

The princess looked at Koznishev without replying. But the fact that Sergey Ivanovitch and the princess seemed anxious to get rid of him did not in the least disconcert Stepan Arkadyevitch. Smiling, he stared at the feather in the princess’s hat, and then about him as though he were going to pick something up. Seeing a lady approaching with a collecting box, he beckoned her up and put in a five-rouble note.
公主看着科兹尼舍夫，没有回答。但谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇和公主似乎急于除掉他这一事实并没有让斯捷潘·阿尔卡季维奇感到不安。他微笑着，盯着公主帽子上的羽毛，然后环顾四周，仿佛要捡起什么东西。看到一位女士拿着一个收集箱走过来，他招呼她过来，投入了一张五卢布的钞票。

‘I can never see these collecting boxes unmoved while I’ve money in my pocket,’ he said. ‘And how about today’s telegram? Fine chaps those Montenegrins!’
他说：“当我口袋里有钱时，我永远不会看到这些收集箱不动。” “那么今天的电报怎么样？那些黑山人好样的！”

‘You don’t say so!’ he cried, when the princess told him that Vronsky was going by this train. For an instant Stepan Arkadyevitch’s face looked sad, but a minute later, when, stroking his mustaches and swinging as he walked, he went into the hall where Vronsky was, he had completely forgotten his own despairing sobs over his sister’s corpse, and he saw in Vronsky only a hero and an old friend.
“你别这么说！”当公主告诉他渥伦斯基要乘这列火车时，他喊道。一瞬间，斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇的脸色显得悲伤，但一分钟后，当他抚着胡须、摇摇晃晃地走进渥伦斯基所在的大厅时，他完全忘记了自己对着妹妹的尸体绝望的哭泣，他看到了在渥伦斯基，只有英雄和老朋友。

‘With all his faults one can’t refuse to do him justice,’ said the princess to Sergey Ivanovitch as soon as Stepan Arkadyevitch had left them. ‘What a typically Russian, Slav nature! Only, I’m afraid it won’t be pleasant for Vronsky to see him. Say what you will, I’m touched by that man’s fate. Do talk to him a little on the way,’ said the princess.
“尽管他有这么多的缺点，但我们不能拒绝公正地对待他。”斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇一离开他们，公主就对谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇说道。 “多么典型的俄罗斯斯拉夫性格啊！只是，恐怕渥伦斯基见到他会不太高兴。不管你怎么说，我都被那个人的命运所感动。路上一定要和他聊聊。”公主说道。

‘Yes, perhaps, if it happens so.’
“是的，也许吧，如果真的发生的话。”

‘I never liked him. But this atones for a great deal. He’s not merely going himself, he’s taking a squadron at his own expense.’
‘我从来不喜欢他。但这弥补了很多。他不仅要自己去，还要自费带一个中队去。”

‘Yes, so I heard.’
“是的，我听说了。”

A bell sounded. Everyone crowded to the doors. ‘Here he is!’ said the princess, indicating Vronsky, who with his mother on his arm walked by, wearing a long overcoat and wide-brimmed black hat. Oblonsky was walking beside him, talking eagerly of something.
铃声响起。大家都挤到门口。 “他在这里！”公主指着渥伦斯基说道，渥伦斯基挽着他的母亲走过，穿着长大衣，戴着宽边黑帽子。奥布朗斯基走在他身边，热切地谈论着什么。

Vronsky was frowning and looking straight before him, as though he did not hear what Stepan Arkadyevitch was saying.
渥伦斯基皱着眉头，直视前方，仿佛没有听到斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇在说什么。

Probably on Oblonsky’s pointing them out, he looked round in the direction where the princess and Sergey Ivanovitch were standing, and without speaking lifted his hat. His face, aged and worn by suffering, looked stony.
大概是在奥布朗斯基的指点下，他环顾了一下公主和谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇站着的方向，没有说话就举起了帽子。他的脸因痛苦而苍老、憔悴，看起来冷酷无情。

Going onto the platform, Vronsky left his mother and disappeared into a compartment.
渥伦斯基走上站台，离开了母亲，消失在车厢里。

On the platform there rang out ‘God save the Tsar,’ then shouts of ‘hurrah!’ and ‘jivio!’ One of the volunteers, a tall, very young man with a hollow chest, was particularly conspicuous, bowing and waving his felt hat and a nosegay over his head. Then two officers emerged, bowing too, and a stout man with a big beard, wearing a greasy forage cap.
站台上响起了“上帝保佑沙皇”的呼声，然后是“万岁！”和“吉维奥！”的呼喊声，其中一名志愿者，身材高大，非常年轻，胸膛凹陷，鞠躬并挥舞着毛毡，显得格外引人注目。头上戴着帽子和花束。然后出现了两名军官，也鞠了个躬，还有一个留着大胡子、戴着一顶油腻的草帽的粗壮男人。

Chapter 3
第3章

Saying good-bye to the princess, Sergey Ivanovitch was joined by Katavasov; together they got into a carriage full to overflowing, and the train started.
谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇与公主告别后，卡塔瓦索夫也加入了进来。他们一起上了一辆满载而满的车厢，火车开动了。

At Tsaritsino station the train was met by a chorus of young men singing ‘Hail to Thee!’ Again the volunteers bowed and poked their heads out, but Sergey Ivanovitch paid no attention to them. He had had so much to do with the volunteers that the type was familiar to him and did not interest him. Katavasov, whose scientific work had prevented his having a chance of observing them hitherto, was very much interested in them and questioned Sergey Ivanovitch.
在察里津诺车站，一群年轻人合唱着“向你致敬！”迎接火车，志愿者们再次鞠躬并探出头来，但谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇没有理会他们。他和志愿者们打交道太多了，所以他对这类人很熟悉，但并不感兴趣。卡塔瓦索夫的科学工作迄今为止使他没有机会观察它们，但他对它们非常感兴趣，并向谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇提出了质疑。

Sergey Ivanovitch advised him to go into the second-class and talk to them himself. At the next station Katavasov acted on this suggestion.
谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇建议他去二等舱亲自跟他们谈谈。在下一站，卡塔瓦索夫按照这个建议采取了行动。

At the first stop he moved into the second-class and made the acquaintance of the volunteers. They were sitting in a corner of the carriage, talking loudly and obviously aware that the attention of the passengers and Katavasov as he got in was concentrated upon them. More loudly than all talked the tall, hollow-chested young man. He was unmistakably tipsy, and was relating some story that had occurred at his school. Facing him sat a middle-aged officer in the Austrian military jacket of the Guards uniform. He was listening with a smile to the hollowchested youth, and occasionally pulling him up. The third, in an artillery uniform, was sitting on a box beside them. A fourth was asleep.
第一站，他就坐进二等车厢，结识了志愿者。他们坐在车厢的一角，大声说话，显然意识到上车后乘客和卡塔瓦索夫的注意力都集中在他们身上。这个高个子、胸膛凹陷的年轻人说话的声音比所有人都大声。他显然喝醉了，正在讲述发生在学校的一些故事。他对面坐着一位身穿奥地利近卫军军装夹克的中年军官。他微笑着听着胸膛凹陷的青年说话，时不时地把他拉起来。第三个人穿着炮兵制服，坐在他们旁边的一个盒子上。第四个正在睡觉。

Entering into conversation with the youth, Katavasov learned that he was a wealthy Moscow merchant who had run through a large fortune before he was two-and-twenty. Katavasov did not like him, because he was unmanly and effeminate and sickly. He was obviously convinced, especially now after drinking, that he was performing a heroic action, and he bragged of it in the most unpleasant way.
在与年轻人的交谈中，卡塔瓦索夫得知他是一位莫斯科富商，在两岁二十岁之前就已经拥有了一大笔财产。卡塔瓦索夫不喜欢他，因为他缺乏男子气概、女性化且体弱多病。他显然确信，尤其是现在喝了酒之后，他正在执行一项英雄行为，并且他以最令人不快的方式吹嘘它。

The second, the retired officer, made an unpleasant impression too upon Katavasov. He was, it seemed, a man who had tried everything. He had been on a railway, had been a land-steward, and had started factories, and he talked, quite without necessity, of all he had done, and used learned expressions quite inappropriately.
第二个，这位退休军官，也给卡塔瓦索夫留下了不愉快的印象。看来他是一个尝试过一切的人。他曾在铁路上工作过，当过土地管理员，开办过工厂，他毫无必要地谈论他所做的一切，并且使用了非常不恰当的博学表达方式。

The third, the artilleryman, on the contrary, struck Katavasov very favorably. He was a quiet, modest fellow, unmistakably impressed by the knowledge of the officer and the heroic self-sacrifice of the merchant and saying nothing about himself. When Katavasov asked him what had impelled him to go to Servia, he answered modestly:
相反，第三个炮兵对卡塔瓦索夫非常有利。他是一个安静、谦虚的人，军官的知识和商人的英勇自我牺牲无疑给他留下了深刻的印象，但他对自己只字不提。当卡塔瓦索夫问他是什么促使他去塞尔维亚时，他谦虚地回答：

‘Oh, well, everyone’s going. The Servians want help, too. I’m sorry for them.’
‘哦，好吧，大家都去吧。 Servians也需要帮助。我为他们感到抱歉。

‘Yes, you artillerymen especially are scarce there,’ said Katavasov.
“是的，你们炮兵在那里尤其稀少，”卡塔瓦索夫说。

‘Oh, I wasn’t long in the artillery, maybe they’ll put me into the infantry or the cavalry.’
“哦，我在炮兵服役的时间不长，也许他们会把我编进步兵或骑兵。”

‘Into the infantry when they need artillery more than anything?’ said Katavasov, fancying from the artilleryman’s apparent age that he must have reached a fairly high grade.
“当步兵比什么都需要火炮的时候，就加入步兵？”卡塔瓦索夫说道，从炮兵的明显年龄推测他一定已经达到了相当高的等级。

‘I wasn’t long in the artillery; I’m a cadet retired,’ he said, and he began to explain how he had failed in his examination.
“我在炮兵服役的时间不长；我是一名退役学员。”他说道，然后开始解释自己为何考试不及格。

All of this together made a disagreeable impression on Katavasov, and when the volunteers got out at a station for a drink, Katavasov would have liked to compare his unfavorable impression in conversation with someone. There was an old man in the carriage, wearing a military overcoat, who had been listening all the while to Katavasov’s conversation with the volunteers. When they were left alone, Katavasov addressed him.
所有这些都给卡塔瓦索夫留下了不愉快的印象，当志愿者下车到车站喝一杯时，卡塔瓦索夫很想在与某人交谈时比较他的不良印象。车厢里有一位穿着军大衣的老人，一直在听卡塔瓦索夫与志愿者们的谈话。当只剩下他们俩时，卡塔瓦索夫向他讲话。

‘What different positions they come from, all those fellows who are going off there,’ Katavasov said vaguely, not wishing to express his own opinion, and at the same time anxious to find out the old man’s views.
“他们来自多么不同的立场，所有那些要离开那里的家伙，”卡塔瓦索夫含糊地说，不想表达自己的意见，同时又急于了解老人的看法。

The old man was an officer who had served on two campaigns. He knew what makes a soldier, and judging by the appearance and the talk of those persons, by the swagger with which they had recourse to the bottle on the journey, he considered them poor soldiers. Moreover, he lived in a district town, and he was longing to tell how one soldier had volunteered from his town, a drunkard and a thief whom no one would employ as a laborer. But knowing by experience that in the present condition of the public temper it was dangerous to express an opinion opposed to the general one, and especially to criticize the volunteers unfavorably, he too watched Katavasov without committing himself.
这位老人是一名军官，曾参加过两次战役。他知道什么是士兵，从那些人的外表和谈话，以及他们在旅途中求助于瓶子的神气来判断，他认为他们是可怜的士兵。此外，他住在一个地区城镇，他很想讲述一名士兵如何从他的城镇自愿来到这里，一个酒鬼和一个小偷，没有人愿意雇用他作为劳工。但根据经验，他知道在目前的公众情绪下，表达与一般意见相反的意见，特别是对志愿者进行不利的批评是危险的，因此他也观察了卡塔瓦索夫，但没有做出任何承诺。

‘Well, men are wanted there,’ he said, laughing with his eyes. And they fell to talking of the last war news, and each concealed from the other his perplexity as to the engagement expected next day, since the Turks had been beaten, according to the latest news, at all points. And so they parted, neither giving expression to his opinion.
“嗯，那里需要男人，”他笑着说道。他们开始谈论最后的战争消息，每个人都向对方隐瞒了他对第二天预计交战的困惑，因为根据最新消息，土耳其人在所有方面都被击败了。于是他们就分开了，没有表达他的意见。

Katavasov went back to his own carriage, and with reluctant hypocrisy reported to Sergey Ivanovitch his observations of the volunteers, from which it would appear that they were capital fellows.
卡塔瓦索夫回到自己的马车上，不情愿地虚伪地向谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇报告了他对志愿者的观察，从中看出他们是资本家。

At a big station at a town the volunteers were again greeted with shouts and singing, again men and women with collecting boxes appeared, and provincial ladies brought bouquets to the volunteers and followed them into the refreshment room; but all this was on a much smaller and feebler scale than in Moscow.
在小镇的一个大车站，志愿者们再次受到喊声和歌声的欢迎，带着募捐箱的男男女女再次出现，外省的女士们给志愿者们带来了花束，并跟随他们进入了茶点室；但这一切的规模都比莫斯科小得多、规模也小得多。

Chapter 4
第4章

While the train was stopping at the provincial town, Sergey Ivanovitch did not go to the refreshment room, but walked up and down the platform.
当火车停在省城时，谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇没有去茶点室，而是在站台上走来走去。

The first time he passed Vronsky’s compartment he noticed that the curtain was drawn over the window; but as he passed it the second time he saw the old countess at the window. She beckoned to Koznishev.
当他第一次经过渥伦斯基的包厢时，他注意到窗户上的窗帘拉着。但当他第二次经过它时，他在窗前看到了老伯爵夫人。她向科兹尼舍夫招手。

‘I’m going, you see, taking him as far as Kursk,’ she said.
“我要去，你看，带他一直到库尔斯克，”她说。

‘Yes, so I heard,’ said Sergey Ivanovitch, standing at her window and peeping in. ‘What a noble act on his part!’ he added, noticing that Vronsky was not in the compartment.
“是的，我是这么听说的，”谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇站在她的窗前向里窥视，说道。“他的行为多么高尚啊！”他注意到渥伦斯基不在包厢里，又补充道。

‘Yes, after his misfortune, what was there for him to do?’
“是的，在他遭遇不幸之后，他能做什么呢？”

‘What a terrible thing it was!’ said Sergey Ivanovitch.
“这是多么可怕的事情啊！”谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇说。

‘Ah, what I have been through! But do get in.... Ah, what I have been through!’ she repeated, when Sergey Ivanovitch had got in and sat down beside her. ‘You can’t conceive it! For six weeks he did not speak to anyone, and would not touch food except when I implored him. And not for one minute could we leave him alone. We took away everything he could have used against himself. We lived on the ground floor, but there was no reckoning on anything. You know, of course, that he had shot himself once already on her account,’ she said, and the old lady’s eyelashes twitched at the recollection. ‘Yes, hers was the fitting end for such a woman. Even the death she chose was low and vulgar.’
‘啊，我经历了什么！但请进来……啊，我经历了什么！”当谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇进来并坐在她旁边时，她重复道。 ‘你无法想象！六个星期以来，他没有和任何人说话，除非我恳求他，否则他不会碰食物。我们一分钟都不能丢下他不管。我们拿走了他可以用来对付自己的一切。我们住在一楼，但什么也没有算。你当然知道，他为了她已经开枪自杀过一次了。”她说，老太太一想起这件事，睫毛就抽搐了。 “是的，对于这样一个女人来说，她的结局是合适的。”就连她选择的死亡也是低俗而庸俗的。

‘It’s not for us to judge, countess,’ said Sergey Ivanovitch; ‘but I can understand that it has been very hard for you.’
“这不是由我们来判断的，伯爵夫人，”谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇说。 “但我可以理解，这对你来说非常困难。”

‘Ah, don’t speak of it! I was staying on my estate, and he was with me. A note was brought him. He wrote an answer and sent it off. We hadn’t an idea that she was close by at the station. In the evening I had only just gone to my room, when my Mary told me a lady had thrown herself under the train. Something seemed to strike me at once. I knew it was she. The first thing I said was, he was not to be told. But they’d told him already. His coachman was there and saw it all. When I ran into his room, he was beside himself—it was fearful to see him. He didn’t say a word, but galloped off there. I don’t know to this day what happened there, but he was brought back at death’s door. I shouldn’t have known him. Prostration complete, the doctor said. And that was followed almost by madness. Oh, why talk of it!’ said the countess with a wave of her hand. ‘It was an awful time! No, say what you will, she was a bad woman. Why, what is the meaning of such desperate passions? It was all to show herself something out of the way. Well, and that she did do. She brought herself to ruin and two good men—her husband and my unhappy son.’
‘啊，别说了！我住在我的庄园里，他和我在一起。有人给他带来了一张纸条。他写了一个答案并寄出。我们不知道她就在车站附近。晚上，我刚回到房间，玛丽就告诉我，一位女士跳进了火车底下。似乎有什么东西立刻触动了我。我知道是她。我说的第一件事是，不要告诉他。但他们已经告诉他了。他的车夫就在那里，目睹了这一切。当我跑进他的房间时，他已经疯了——看到他我很害怕。他没有再说什么，而是飞奔而去。我至今不知道那里发生了什么，但他在死亡之门被拉了回来。我不应该认识他。医生说，拜倒完成了。接下来几乎是疯狂。噢，何必谈论这个呢！”伯爵夫人摆摆手说道。 “那真是一段糟糕的时光！不，不管你怎么说，她都是个坏女人。为什么，如此绝望的激情有何意义？这一切都是为了向自己展示一些不碍事的东西。好吧，她确实做到了。她毁掉了自己和两个好男人——她的丈夫和我不幸的儿子。

‘And what did her husband do?’ asked Sergey Ivanovitch.
“她丈夫做了什么？”谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇问。

‘He has taken her daughter. Alexey was ready to agree to anything at first. Now it worries him terribly that he should have given his own child away to another man. But he can’t take back his word. Karenin came to the funeral. But we tried to prevent his meeting Alexey. For him, for her husband, it was easier, anyway. She had set him free. But my poor son was utterly given up to her. He had thrown up everything, his career, me, and even then she had no mercy on him, but of set purpose she made his ruin complete. No, say what you will, her very death was the death of a vile woman, of no religious feeling. God forgive me, but I can’t help hating the memory of her, when I look at my son’s misery!’
‘他带走了她的女儿。阿列克谢一开始就准备好同意任何事情。现在他非常担心他应该把自己的孩子送给另一个男人。但他不能收回自己的诺言。卡列宁来参加葬礼。但我们试图阻止他会见阿列克谢。无论如何，对于他，对于她的丈夫来说，这更容易。她让他自由了。但我可怜的儿子完全屈服于她。他抛弃了一切，他的事业，我，即便如此，她也没有怜悯他，但出于既定的目的，她彻底毁了他。不，不管你怎么说，她的死都是一个卑鄙女人的死，没有任何宗教感情。上帝原谅我，但当我看到我儿子的痛苦时，我情不自禁地讨厌她的记忆！

‘But how is he now?’
“但是他现在怎么样了？”

‘It was a blessing from Providence for us—this Servian war. I’m old, and I don’t understand the rights and wrongs of it, but it’s come as a providential blessing to him. Of course for me, as his mother, it’s terrible; and what’s worse, they say, ce n’est pas tres bien vu a Petersbourg. But it can’t be helped! It was the one thing that could rouse him. Yashvin—a friend of his—he had lost all he had at cards and he was going to Servia. He came to see him and persuaded him to go. Now it’s an interest for him. Do please talk to him a little. I want to distract his mind. He’s so low-spirited. And as bad luck would have it, he has toothache too. But he’ll be delighted to see you. Please do talk to him; he’s walking up and down on that side.’
“这场塞尔维亚战争是上天对我们的祝福。我老了，不明白这是非曲直，但这对他来说是天赐之福。当然，对我来说，作为他的母亲，这很糟糕；更糟糕的是，他们说，这不是彼得堡的事。但这也是没办法的事！这是唯一能够唤醒他的事情。亚什文——他的一个朋友——他已经输掉了所有的牌，他要去塞尔维亚。他来看他并劝他走。现在这对他来说是一种兴趣。请和他谈谈。我想分散他的注意力。他真是太没精神了。不幸的是，他还牙痛。但他会很高兴见到你。请一定要和他谈谈；他在那边走来走去。

Sergey Ivanovitch said he would be very glad to, and crossed over to the other side of the station.
谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇说他很乐意这么做，然后就走到了车站的另一边。

Chapter 5
第5章

In the slanting evening shadows cast by the baggage piled up on the platform, Vronsky in his long overcoat and slouch hat, with his hands in his pockets, strode up and down, like a wild beast in a cage, turning sharply after twenty paces. Sergey Ivanovitch fancied, as he approached him, that Vronsky saw him but was pretending not to see. This did not affect Sergey Ivanovitch in the slightest. He was above all personal considerations with Vronsky.
站台上堆放的行李投下斜斜的暮色，渥伦斯基穿着长大衣，戴着宽边软帽，双手插在口袋里，大步走来走去，像一头关在笼子里的野兽，二十步后就急转。当谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇走近他时，他觉得渥伦斯基看见了他，但假装没有看见。这丝毫没有影响谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇。他对渥伦斯基的考虑首先是个人考虑。

At that moment Sergey Ivanovitch looked upon Vronsky as a man taking an important part in a great cause, and Koznishev thought it his duty to encourage him and express his approval. He went up to him.
在那一刻，谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇将渥伦斯基视为在一项伟大事业中发挥重要作用的人，科兹尼舍夫认为他有责任鼓励他并表达他的认可。他走到他身边。

Vronsky stood still, looked intently at him, recognized him, and going a few steps forward to meet him, shook hands with him very warmly.
渥伦斯基一动不动地站着，专注地看着他，认出了他，向前走了几步迎接他，非常热情地与他握手。

‘Possibly you didn’t wish to see me,’ said Sergey Ivanovitch, ‘but couldn’t I be of use to you?’
“也许你不想见我，”谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇说，“但我不能对你有用吗？”

‘There’s no one I should less dislike seeing than you,’ said Vronsky. ‘Excuse me; and there’s nothing in life for me to like.’
“我最不喜欢见到的人莫过于你了，”渥伦斯基说道。 '打扰一下;生活中没有什么让我喜欢的。”

‘I quite understand, and I merely meant to offer you my services,’ said Sergey Ivanovitch, scanning Vronsky’s face, full of unmistakable suffering. ‘Wouldn’t it be of use to you to have a letter to Ristitch—to Milan?’
“我完全明白，我只是想为您提供服务，”谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇说道，扫视着渥伦斯基的脸，脸上充满了明显的痛苦。 “给里斯蒂奇——给米兰写一封信对你来说不是很有用吗？”

‘Oh, no!’ Vronsky said, seeming to understand him with difficulty. ‘If you don’t mind, let’s walk on. It’s so stuffy among the carriages. A letter? No, thank you; to meet death one needs no letters of introduction. Nor for the Turks...’ he said, with a smile that was merely of the lips. His eyes still kept their look of angry suffering.
“哦，不！”渥伦斯基说道，似乎很难理解他的意思。 ‘如果你不介意的话，我们继续走吧。车厢里很闷。一封信？不，谢谢;面对死亡，不需要介绍信。对土耳其人来说也不是……”他说，脸上带着微笑。他的眼神依然带着愤怒痛苦的神情。

‘Yes; but you might find it easier to get into relations, which are after all essential, with anyone prepared to see you. But that’s as you like. I was very glad to hear of your intention. There have been so many attacks made on the volunteers, and a man like you raises them in public estimation.’
'是的;但你可能会发现与准备好见你的人建立关系更容易，这毕竟是必要的。但这就是你喜欢的。我很高兴听到你的意图。对志愿者的攻击如此之多，而像你这样的人却在公众的评价中提出了这些攻击。”

‘My use as a man,’ said Vronsky, ‘is that life’s worth nothing to me. And that I’ve enough bodily energy to cut my way into their ranks, and to trample on them or fall—I know that. I’m glad there’s something to give my life for, for it’s not simply useless but loathsome to me. Anyone’s welcome to it.’ And his jaw twitched impatiently from the incessant gnawing toothache, that prevented him from even speaking with a natural expression.
“我作为一个男人的用处，”渥伦斯基说，“生命对我来说毫无价值。”我有足够的体力冲进他们的行列，践踏他们或摔倒——我知道这一点。我很高兴有东西可以为之献出生命，因为它不仅无用，而且对我来说令人厌恶。任何人都欢迎。”他的下巴因为持续不断的牙痛而不耐烦地抽动着，这让他甚至无法用自然的表情说话。

‘You will become another man, I predict,’ said Sergey Ivanovitch, feeling touched. ‘To deliver one’s brother-men from bondage is an aim worth death and life. God grant you success outwardly—and inwardly peace,’ he added, and he held out his hand. Vronsky warmly pressed his outstretched hand.
“我预测你会变成另一个人，”谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇感动地说。 “将自己的兄弟从束缚中解救出来是一个生死攸关的目标。愿上帝赐予你外在的成功和内心的平安，”他补充道，然后伸出了手。渥伦斯基热情地握住了他伸出的手。

‘Yes, as a weapon I may be of some use. But as a man, I’m a wreck,’ he jerked out.
“是的，作为武器我可能会有一些用处。但作为一个男人，我是个废人。”他突然说道。

He could hardly speak for the throbbing ache in his strong teeth, that were like rows of ivory in his mouth. He was silent, and his eyes rested on the wheels of the tender, slowly and smoothly rolling along the rails.
他几乎说不出话来，因​​为他的牙齿像嘴里的一排排象牙一样，一阵阵疼痛。他沉默不语，目光落在小船的轮子上，沿着铁轨缓慢而平稳地滚动。

And all at once a different pain, not an ache, but an inner trouble, that set his whole being in anguish, made him for an instant forget his toothache. As he glanced at the tender and the rails, under the influence of the conversation with a friend he had not met since his misfortune, he suddenly recalled her—that is, what was left of her when he had run like one distraught into the cloak room of the railway station—on the table, shamelessly sprawling out among strangers, the bloodstained body so lately full of life; the head unhurt dropping back with its weight of hair, and the curling tresses about the temples, and the exquisite face, with red, half-opened mouth, the strange, fixed expression, piteous on the lips and awful in the still open eyes, that seemed to utter that fearful phrase—that he would be sorry for it—that she had said when they were quarreling.
突然，一种不同的疼痛，不是疼痛，而是内心的烦恼，让他整个人都陷入痛苦之中，让他瞬间忘记了牙痛。当他看了一眼补给船和栏杆时，在与一位自不幸之后未曾谋面的朋友谈话的影响下，他突然想起了她——也就是，当他像一个心烦意乱地跑进斗篷时，她所剩下的东西。火车站的房间里——桌子上，无耻地摊开在陌生人中间，血迹斑斑的尸体刚刚充满了生机；没有受伤的头，头发的重量向后垂去，鬓边卷曲的头发，精致的脸，红红的，半开的嘴，奇怪的，固定的表情，嘴唇上可怜兮兮，仍然睁着的眼睛可怕，这似乎说出了他们吵架时她说过的那句可怕的话——他会为此感到抱歉。

And he tried to think of her as she was when he met her the first time, at a railway station too, mysterious, exquisite, loving, seeking and giving happiness, and not cruelly revengeful as he remembered her on that last moment. He tried to recall his best moments with her, but those moments were poisoned forever. He could only think of her as triumphant, successful in her menace of a wholly useless remorse never to be effaced. He lost all consciousness of toothache, and his face worked with sobs.
他试着把她想象成他第一次见到她时的样子，也是在火车站，神秘、精致、充满爱、寻求并给予幸福，而不是像他记忆中最后一刻那样残酷地报复。他试图回忆起和她在一起的最美好的时光，但那些时刻被永远毒害了。他只能认为她得意洋洋，成功地威胁要进行完全无用的悔恨，永远不会被抹去。他完全失去了牙痛的知觉，脸上抽泣着。

Passing twice up and down beside the baggage in silence and regaining his self-possession, he addressed Sergey Ivanovitch calmly:
他默默地在行李旁边来回走了两圈，恢复了镇定，平静地对谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇说道：

‘You have had no telegrams since yesterday’s? Yes, driven back for a third time, but a decisive engagement expected for tomorrow.’
“从昨天起你就没收到过电报吗？”是的，第三次被击退，但预计明天将进行决定性的交战。

And after talking a little more of King Milan’s proclamation, and the immense effect it might have, they parted, going to their carriages on hearing the second bell.
在又谈了一些米兰国王的公告以及它可能产生的巨大影响后，他们在听到第二声钟声后分手，走向马车。

Chapter 6
第6章

Sergey Ivanovitch had not telegraphed to his brother to send to meet him, as he did not know when he should be able to leave Moscow. Levin was not at home when Katavasov and Sergey Ivanovitch in a fly hired at the station drove up to the steps of the Pokrovskoe house, as black as Moors from the dust of the road. Kitty, sitting on the balcony with her father and sister, recognized her brother-in-law, and ran down to meet him.
谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇没有给他的兄弟发电报派人去接他，因为他不知道他什么时候能够离开莫斯科。当卡塔瓦索夫和谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇乘坐在车站租来的一辆飞机驶向波克罗夫斯科房子的台阶时，莱文不在家，路上的灰尘像摩尔人一样漆黑。凯蒂和父亲和妹妹坐在阳台上，认出了她的姐夫，就跑下来迎接他。

‘What a shame not to have let us know,’ she said, giving her hand to Sergey Ivanovitch, and putting her forehead up for him to kiss.
“没有让我们知道真是太遗憾了，”她一边说，一边把手伸给谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇，抬起额头让他亲吻。

‘We drove here capitally, and have not put you out,’ answered Sergey Ivanovitch. ‘I’m so dirty. I’m afraid to touch you. I’ve been so busy, I didn’t know when I should be able to tear myself away. And so you’re still as ever enjoying your peaceful, quiet happiness,’ he said, smiling, ‘out of the reach of the current in your peaceful backwater. Here’s our friend Fyodor Vassilievitch who has succeeded in getting here at last.’
“我们开得很厉害，并没有把你赶出去。”谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇回答道。 ‘我太脏了。我害怕碰你。太忙了，不知道什么时候才能抽身。所以你仍然一如既往地享受着平静、安静的幸福，”他微笑着说，“在你平静的死水里，远离了水流的影响。”这是我们的朋友费奥多尔·瓦西里耶维奇，他终于成功到达这里了。

‘But I’m not a negro, I shall look like a human being when I wash,’ said Katavasov in his jesting fashion, and he shook hands and smiled, his teeth flashing white in his black face.
“但我不是黑人，我洗澡时会看起来像一个人，”卡塔瓦索夫用他的开玩笑的方式说道，他握着双手微笑着，黑色的脸上露出洁白的牙齿。

‘Kostya will be delighted. He has gone to his settlement. It’s time he should be home.’
‘克斯特亚会很高兴的。他已经回到自己的定居点了。他该回家了。

‘Busy as ever with his farming. It really is a peaceful backwater,’ said Katavasov; ‘while we in town think of nothing but the Servian war. Well, how does our friend look at it? He’s sure not to think like other people.’
‘一如既往地忙于农事。卡塔瓦索夫说：“这里确实是一片宁静的死水。” “而我们在城里只想着塞尔维亚战争。那么，我们的朋友怎么看呢？他肯定不会像其他人那样思考。

‘Oh, I don’t know, like everybody else,’ Kitty answered, a little embarrassed, looking round at Sergey Ivanovitch. ‘I’ll send to fetch him. Papa’s staying with us. He’s only just come home from abroad.’
“哦，我不知道，就像其他人一样，”基蒂回答道，有点尴尬，她环顾四周看着谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇。 ‘我会派人去接他。爸爸和我们住在一起。他刚刚从国外回来。

And making arrangements to send for Levin and for the guests to wash, one in his room and the other in what had been Dolly’s, and giving orders for their luncheon, Kitty ran out onto the balcony, enjoying the freedom, and rapidity of movement, of which she had been deprived during the months of her pregnancy.
安排好派人去接莱文，让客人们洗澡，一个在他的房间，另一个在多莉的房间，并为他们的午餐下达命令，基蒂跑到阳台上，享受自由和快速的行动，她在怀孕的几个月里就被剥夺了这些权利。

‘It’s Sergey Ivanovitch and Katavasov, a professor,’ she said.
“这是谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇和卡塔瓦索夫，一位教授，”她说。

‘Oh, that’s a bore in this heat,’ said the prince.
“噢，这么热的天气真是令人厌烦。”王子说道。

‘No, papa, he’s very nice, and Kostya’s very fond of him,’ Kitty said, with a deprecating smile, noticing the irony on her father’s face.
“不，爸爸，他很好，克斯特亚也很喜欢他，”基蒂注意到父亲脸上的讽刺，脸上带着不屑的微笑。

‘Oh, I didn’t say anything.’
“哦，我什么也没说。”

‘You go to them, darling,’ said Kitty to her sister, ‘and entertain them. They saw Stiva at the station; he was quite well. And I must run to Mitya. As ill-luck would have it, I haven’t fed him since tea. He’s awake now, and sure to be screaming.’ And feeling a rush of milk, she hurried to the nursery.
“亲爱的，你去找他们吧，”基蒂对她妹妹说，“招待他们。”他们在车站看到了斯蒂瓦；他很好。我必须跑到米蒂亚去。不幸的是，从喝茶后我就没给他喂过饭。他现在醒了，肯定会尖叫。”她感觉到一股乳汁涌出，赶紧跑到育婴室。

This was not a mere guess; her connection with the child was still so close, that she could gauge by the flow of her milk his need of food, and knew for certain he was hungry.
这不仅仅是猜测；而是。她与孩子的联系仍然如此密切，以至于她可以通过乳汁的流量来判断他对食物的需求，并确定他饿了。

She knew he was crying before she reached the nursery. And he was indeed crying. She heard him and hastened. But the faster she went, the louder he screamed. It was a fine healthy scream, hungry and impatient.
在她到达托儿所之前，她就知道他在哭。而他确实在哭。她听到他的话，连忙加快脚步。但她走得越快，他的尖叫声就越大。这是一声健康的尖叫，饥肠辘辘，不耐烦。

‘Has he been screaming long, nurse, very long?’ said Kitty hurriedly, seating herself on a chair, and preparing to give the baby the breast. ‘But give me him quickly. Oh, nurse, how tiresome you are! There, tie the cap afterwards, do!’
“奶妈，他尖叫很久了吗？”凯蒂​​急忙说道，一边坐在椅子上，准备给婴儿喂奶。 “但是快点把他给我。”噢，护士，你真累啊！在那里，然后系上帽子，开始吧！

The baby’s greedy scream was passing into sobs.
婴儿贪婪的尖叫声渐渐变成了抽泣。

‘But you can’t manage so, ma’am,’ said Agafea Mihalovna, who was almost always to be found in the nursery. ‘He must be put straight. A-oo! a-oo!’ she chanted over him, paying no attention to the mother.
“但是你不能这么做，女士，”阿加菲亚·米哈伊洛夫娜说，她几乎总是出现在育婴室里。 ‘必须纠正他。啊哦！啊——哦！”她对着他喊道，没有注意母亲。

The nurse brought the baby to his mother. Agafea Mihalovna followed him with a face dissolving with tenderness.
护士把孩子带到了他母亲身边。阿加菲娅·米哈伊洛夫娜跟在他身后，脸上充满了温柔。

‘He knows me, he knows me. In God’s faith, Katerina Alexandrovna, ma’am, he knew me!’ Agafea Mihalovna cried above the baby’s screams.
‘他认识我，他认识我。以上帝的信仰，卡捷琳娜·亚历山德罗芙娜，女士，他认识我！”阿加菲娅·米哈伊洛芙娜的哭声压过了婴儿的尖叫声。

But Kitty did not hear her words. Her impatience kept growing, like the baby’s.
但凯蒂没有听到她的话。她的不耐烦不断增长，就像婴儿一样。

Their impatience hindered things for a while. The baby could not get hold of the breast right, and was furious.
他们的不耐烦一度阻碍了事情的进展。宝宝无法正确地握住乳房，并且很生气。

At last, after despairing, breathless screaming, and vain sucking, things went right, and mother and child felt simultaneously soothed, and both subsided into calm.
终于，在经历了绝望、气喘吁吁的尖叫和徒劳的吮吸之后，一切都好起来了，母子俩同时感到舒缓，都归于平静。

‘But poor darling, he’s all in perspiration!’ said Kitty in a whisper, touching the baby.
“但是可怜的宝贝，他浑身都是汗！”基蒂摸着婴儿，低声说道。

‘What makes you think he knows you?’ she added, with a sidelong glance at the baby’s eyes, that peered roguishly, as she fancied, from under his cap, at his rhythmically puffing cheeks, and the little red-palmed hand he was waving.
“你凭什么认为他认识你？”她补充道，斜眼看了一眼婴儿的眼睛，正如她想象的那样，那双眼睛从他的帽子下面顽皮地凝视着他有节奏地鼓起的脸颊，还有他那只红润的小手。挥手。

‘Impossible! If he knew anyone, he would have known me,’ said Kitty, in response to Agafea Mihalovna’s statement, and she smiled.
'不可能的！如果他认识任何人，他就会认识我。”基蒂在回应阿加菲娅·米哈伊洛夫娜的声明时说道，她微笑着。

She smiled because, though she said he could not know her, in her heart she was sure that he knew not merely Agafea Mihalovna, but that he knew and understood everything, and knew and understood a great deal too that no one else knew, and that she, his mother, had learned and come to understand only through him. To Agafea Mihalovna, to the nurse, to his grandfather, to his father even, Mitya was a living being, requiring only material care, but for his mother he had long been a mortal being, with whom there had been a whole series of spiritual relations already.
她笑了，因为虽然她说他不认识她，但她心里确信他不仅认识阿加菲娅·米哈伊洛夫娜，而且知道和理解一切，而且还知道和理解很多别人不知道的事情。她，他的母亲，只有通过他才学会并理解。对于阿加菲娅·米哈伊洛夫娜、护士、祖父、甚至父亲来说，米佳是一个活生生的人，只需要物质上的照顾，但对于他的母亲来说，他长期以来一直是一个凡人，与她有一系列的精神生活。关系已经。

‘When he wakes up, please God, you shall see for yourself. Then when I do like this, he simply beams on me, the darling! Simply beams like a sunny day!’ said Agafea Mihalovna.
‘当他醒来时，请上帝保佑，你会亲眼看到的。然后当我这样做时，他只是对我微笑，亲爱的！就像阳光灿烂的日子一样灿烂！”阿加菲亚·米哈洛夫娜说道。

‘Well, well; then we shall see,’ whispered Kitty. ‘But now go away, he’s going to sleep.’
'好吧;那我们就看看吧，”基蒂低声说道。 “但是现在走开吧，他要睡觉了。”

Chapter 7
第7章

Agafea Mihalovna went out on tiptoe; the nurse let down the blind, chased a fly out from under the muslin canopy of the crib, and a bumblebee struggling on the window-frame, and sat down waving a faded branch of birch over the mother and the baby.
阿加菲娅·米哈伊洛夫娜踮着脚尖走了出去。护士放下百叶窗，把一只苍蝇从婴儿床的棉布天篷下赶了出来，还有一只在窗框上挣扎的大黄蜂，然后坐下来，在母亲和婴儿身上挥舞着一根褪色的桦树枝。

‘How hot it is! if God would send a drop of rain,’ she said.
‘多热呀！如果上帝能降下一滴雨就好了。”她说。

‘Yes, yes, sh—sh—sh—‘ was all Kitty answered, rocking a little, and tenderly squeezing the plump little arm, with rolls of fat at the wrist, which Mitya still waved feebly as he opened and shut his eyes. That hand worried Kitty; she longed to kiss the little hand, but was afraid to for fear of waking the baby. At last the little hand ceased waving, and the eyes closed. Only from time to time, as he went on sucking, the baby raised his long, curly eyelashes and peeped at his mother with wet eyes, that looked black in the twilight. The nurse had left off fanning, and was dozing. From above came the peals of the old prince’s voice, and the chuckle of Katavasov.
“是的，是的，嘘——嘘——嘘——”凯蒂只回答道，她轻轻摇晃了一下，温柔地捏着手腕上长着一圈圈脂肪的胖乎乎的小手臂，米蒂亚在睁开眼睛和闭上眼睛时，仍然有气无力地挥舞着。那只手让基蒂很担心；她很想亲吻那只小手，但又不敢亲吻，生怕吵醒了孩子。最后，小手不再挥动，眼睛也闭上了。只是宝宝一边吸奶，一边时不时地扬起长而卷曲的睫毛，用湿漉漉的眼睛偷看妈妈，那双眼睛在暮色中显得漆黑一片。护士不再扇扇子，正在打瞌睡。上面传来老王子的洪亮嗓音和卡塔瓦索夫的咯咯笑声。

‘They have got into talk without me,’ thought Kitty, ‘but still it’s vexing that Kostya’s out. He’s sure to have gone to the bee house again. Though it’s a pity he’s there so often, still I’m glad. It distracts his mind. He’s become altogether happier and better now than in the spring. He used to be so gloomy and worried that I felt frightened for him. And how absurd he is!’ she whispered, smiling.
“他们在没有我的情况下进行了交谈，”基蒂想，“但克斯特亚不在，这仍然令人烦恼。他肯定又去了蜂屋。虽然很遗憾他经常出现，但我还是很高兴。这会分散他的注意力。他现在比春天更快乐、更好了。他以前总是那么忧郁、担心，让我为他感到害怕。他是多么荒唐啊！”她微笑着低声说道。

She knew what worried her husband. It was his unbelief. Although, if she had been asked whether she supposed that in the future life, if he did not believe, he would be damned, she would have had to admit that he would be damned, his unbelief did not cause her unhappiness. And she, confessing that for an unbeliever there can be no salvation, and loving her husband’s soul more than anything in the world, thought with a smile of his unbelief, and told herself that he was absurd.
她知道丈夫担心什么。这是他的不信。虽然，如果问她是否认为在来世，如果他不信，他就会被诅咒，她就不得不承认他会被诅咒，但他的不信并没有导致她的不快乐。而她，承认对于一个不信的人来说是没有救赎的，并且比世界上的任何东西都更爱她丈夫的灵魂，微笑着想到他的不信，并告诉自己他是荒谬的。

‘What does he keep reading philosophy of some sort for all this year?’ she wondered. ‘If it’s all written in those books, he can understand them. If it’s all wrong, why does he read them? He says himself that he would like to believe. Then why is it he doesn’t believe? Surely from his thinking so much? And he thinks so much from being solitary. He’s always alone, alone. He can’t talk about it all to us. I fancy he’ll be glad of these visitors, especially Katavasov. He likes discussions with them,’ she thought, and passed instantly to the consideration of where it would be more convenient to put Katavasov, to sleep alone or to share Sergey Ivanovitch’s room. And then an idea suddenly struck her, which made her shudder and even disturb Mitya, who glanced severely at her. ‘I do believe the laundress hasn’t sent the washing yet, and all the best sheets are in use. If I don’t see to it, Agafea Mihalovna will give Sergey Ivanovitch the wrong sheets,’ and at the very idea of this the blood rushed to Kitty’s face.
“他这一年都在读某种哲学，到底是为了什么？”她想知道。 ‘如果那些书上都写了，他就能理解。如果全错了，他为什么要读它们？他自己说他愿意相信。那他为什么不信呢？肯定是他想那么多吧？他因为孤独而想了很多。他总是孤身一人，孤独一人。他不能向我们谈论这一切。我想他会对这些访客感到高兴，尤其是卡塔瓦索夫。他喜欢和他们讨论，”她想，然后立即考虑把卡塔瓦索夫放在哪里更方便，单独睡觉还是与谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇共用房间。然后她突然想到了一个想法，这让她浑身颤抖，甚至惊扰了米嘉，米嘉严厉地看了她一眼。 “我相信洗衣女工还没有把洗好的衣服送来，所有最好的床单都在使用中。如果我不注意的话，阿加菲娅·米哈伊洛芙娜就会给谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇送错床单。”一想到这个，基蒂的脸就红了。

‘Yes, I will arrange it,’ she decided, and going back to her former thoughts, she remembered that some spiritual question of importance had been interrupted, and she began to recall what. ‘Yes, Kostya, an unbeliever,’ she thought again with a smile.
“是的，我会安排的。”她决定道，然后回到之前的思绪，她想起一些重要的精神问题被打断了，她开始回忆起什么。 “是的，克斯特亚，一个不信教的人，”她微笑着再次想道。

‘Well, an unbeliever then! Better let him always be one than like Madame Stahl, or what I tried to be in those days abroad. No, he won’t ever sham anything.’
‘那么，一个不信者！最好让他永远成为这样的人，而不是像斯塔尔夫人，或者我在国外那些日子里试图成为的人。不，他永远不会欺骗任何事情。

And a recent instance of his goodness rose vividly to her mind. A fortnight ago a penitent letter had come from Stepan Arkadyevitch to Dolly. He besought her to save his honor, to sell her estate to pay his debts. Dolly was in despair, she detested her husband, despised him, pitied him, resolved on a separation, resolved to refuse, but ended by agreeing to sell part of her property. After that, with an irrepressible smile of tenderness, Kitty recalled her husband’s shamefaced embarrassment, his repeated awkward efforts to approach the subject, and how at last, having thought of the one means of helping Dolly without wounding her pride, he had suggested to Kitty—what had not occurred to her before—that she should give up her share of the property.
她最近想起了他的善良。两周前，斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇给多莉写了一封悔罪信。他恳求她挽救他的名誉，卖掉她的财产来偿还他的债务。多莉绝望了，她厌恶丈夫，鄙视他，可怜他，决心分居，决心拒绝，最后却同意卖掉部分财产。之后，基蒂带着难以抑制的温柔微笑，回忆起她丈夫羞愧难堪的样子，他一再笨拙地试图接近这个话题，以及最后，在想到了帮助多莉而又不伤害她自尊的唯一方法之后，他向基蒂提出了建议。 ——她以前没有想到过——她应该放弃自己那份财产。

‘He an unbeliever indeed! With his heart, his dread of offending anyone, even a child! Everything for others, nothing for himself. Sergey Ivanovitch simply considers it as Kostya’s duty to be his steward. And it’s the same with his sister. Now Dolly and her children are under his guardianship; all these peasants who come to him every day, as though he were bound to be at their service.’
‘他确实是一个不信道者！他的心，他害怕得罪任何人，哪怕是一个孩子！一切都是为了别人，什么都不是为了自己。谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇只是认为克斯特亚有责任成为他的管家。他的妹妹也是如此。现在多莉和她的孩子们都在他的监护之下；所有这些每天都来找他的农民，就好像他必须为他们服务一样。

‘Yes, only be like your father, only like him,’ she said, handing Mitya over to the nurse, and putting her lips to his cheek.
“是的，就像你的父亲一样，就像他一样，”她说，把米蒂亚交给护士，把嘴唇贴在他的脸颊上。

Chapter 8
第8章

Ever since, by his beloved brother’s deathbed, Levin had first glanced into the questions of life and death in the light of these new convictions, as he called them, which had during the period from his twentieth to his thirty-fourth year imperceptibly replaced his childish and youthful beliefs—he had been stricken with horror, not so much of death, as of life, without any knowledge of whence, and why, and how, and what it was. The physical organization, its decay, the indestructibility of matter, the law of the conservation of energy, evolution, were the words which usurped the place of his old belief. These words and the ideas associated with them were very well for intellectual purposes. But for life they yielded nothing, and Levin felt suddenly like a man who has changed his warm fur cloak for a muslin garment, and going for the first time into the frost is immediately convinced, not by reason, but by his whole nature that he is as good as naked, and that he must infallibly perish miserably.
从那时起，在他心爱的兄弟临终前，列文第一次根据这些新的信念（他称之为新信念）审视了生与死的问题，这些新信念在他二十岁到三十四岁期间不知不觉地取代了他的信念。幼稚而年轻的信念——他被恐惧所袭击，与其说是死亡，不如说是生命，但他不知道它从何而来、为什么、如何以及是什么。物理组织、它的衰变、物质的坚不可摧、能量守恒定律、进化论，这些词取代了他旧有的信仰。这些词以及与之相关的想法非常适合智力目的。但对于生活来说，他们一无所获，莱文突然感觉自己像一个把温暖的毛皮斗篷换成了平纹细布衣服的人，第一次走进严寒的地方，立刻就确信，不是因为理性，而是因为他的整个本性，他就等于赤身露体，他必定会悲惨地灭亡。

From that moment, though he did not distinctly face it, and still went on living as before, Levin had never lost this sense of terror at his lack of knowledge.
从那一刻起，尽管莱文没有明确地面对这一点，仍然像以前一样生活，但他从未失去过这种对自己缺乏知识的恐惧感。

He vaguely felt, too, that what he called his new convictions were not merely lack of knowledge, but that they were part of a whole order of ideas, in which no knowledge of what he needed was possible.
他还隐隐约约地感觉到，他所谓的新信念不仅仅是知识的缺乏，而且它们是整个观念体系的一部分，在这个观念体系中，不可能知道他需要什么。

At first, marriage, with the new joys and duties bound up with it, had completely crowded out these thoughts. But of late, while he was staying in Moscow after his wife’s confinement, with nothing to do, the question that clamored for solution had more and more often, more and more insistently, haunted Levin’s mind.
起初，婚姻以及随之而来的新的欢乐和责任完全排除了这些想法。但最近，当他在妻子被监禁后待在莫斯科，无事可做时，这个迫切需要解决的问题越来越频繁地、越来越强烈地萦绕在列文的脑海中。

The question was summed up for him thus: ‘If I do not accept the answers Christianity gives to the problems of my life, what answers do I accept?’ And in the whole arsenal of his convictions, so far from finding any satisfactory answers, he was utterly unable to find anything at all like an answer.
他的问题是这样总结的：“如果我不接受基督教对我生活问题的答案，我该接受什么答案？”在他的全部信念中，到目前为止还没有找到任何令人满意的答案，他根本找不到任何答案。

He was in the position of a man seeking food in toy shops and tool shops.
他的处境就像一个在玩具店和工具店寻找食物的人。

Instinctively, unconsciously, with every book, with every conversation, with every man he met, he was on the lookout for light on these questions and their solution.
本能地、无意识地，他在每一本书中、每一次谈话中、与他遇到的每一个人中，都在寻找这些问题及其解决方案的线索。

What puzzled and distracted him above everything was that the majority of men of his age and circle had, like him, exchanged their old beliefs for the same new convictions, and yet saw nothing to lament in this, and were perfectly satisfied and serene. So that, apart from the principal question, Levin was tortured by other questions too. Were these people sincere? he asked himself, or were they playing a part? or was it that they understood the answers science gave to these problems in some different, clearer sense than he did? And he assiduously studied both these men’s opinions and the books which treated of these scientific explanations.
最让他困惑和心烦意乱的是，大多数与他同龄、同圈子的人都像他一样，把旧的信仰换成了同样的新信念，但对此却没有什么可悲哀的，而且感到非常满足和平静。于是，除了主要问题之外，莱文还被其他问题折磨着。这些人是真诚的吗？他问自己，还是他们在扮演一个角色？还是他们对科学对这些问题给出的答案的理解与他不同，更清晰？他孜孜不倦地研究这些人的观点以及处理这些科学解释的书籍。

One fact he had found out since these questions had engrossed his mind, was that he had been quite wrong in supposing from the recollections of the circle of his young days at college, that religion had outlived its day, and that it was now practically non-existent. All the people nearest to him who were good in their lives were believers. The old prince, and Lvov, whom he liked so much, and Sergey Ivanovitch, and all the women believed, and his wife believed as simply as he had believed in his earliest childhood, and ninety-nine hundredths of the Russian people, all the working people for whose life he felt the deepest respect, believed.
自从这些问题全神贯注后，他发现了一个事实，那就是，根据他年轻时大学时代的回忆，他认为宗教已经过时了，而且现在几乎不再存在，这是完全错误的。 -存在。所有与他关系最近、生活中行善的人都是信徒。老公爵，还有他非常喜欢的利沃夫，还有谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇，还有所有相信的女人，还有他的妻子，他们的信念就像他小时候所相信的那样，还有百分之九十九的俄罗斯人民，所有的俄罗斯人。他相信，他对劳动人民的生活怀有最深切的敬意。

Another fact of which he became convinced, after reading many scientific books, was that the men who shared his views had no other construction to put on them, and that they gave no explanation of the questions which he felt he could not live without answering, but simply ignored their existence and attempted to explain other questions of no possible interest to him, such as the evolution of organisms, the materialistic theory of consciousness, and so forth.
在阅读了许多科学书籍后，他确信的另一个事实是，那些与他观点相同的人没有其他解释可以解释，而且他们没有对他认为不回答就无法生存的问题做出解释，但根本忽略了它们的存在，并试图解释其他他可能不感兴趣的问题，例如有机体的进化、唯物主义的意识理论等等。

Moreover, during his wife’s confinement, something had happened that seemed extraordinary to him. He, an unbeliever, had fallen into praying, and at the moment he prayed, he believed. But that moment had passed, and he could not make his state of mind at that moment fit into the rest of his life.
而且，在他妻子坐月子期间，发生了一件对他来说似乎非同寻常的事情。他，一个不信的人，陷入了祷告，在他祷告的那一刻，他就相信了。但那一刻已经过去了，他无法让那一刻的心境融入他的余生。

He could not admit that at that moment he knew the truth, and that now he was wrong; for as soon as he began thinking calmly about it, it all fell to pieces. He could not admit that he was mistaken then, for his spiritual condition then was precious to him, and to admit that it was a proof of weakness would have been to desecrate those moments. He was miserably divided against himself, and strained all his spiritual forces to the utmost to escape from this condition.
他不能承认在那一刻他知道了真相，而现在他错了；因为一旦他开始冷静地思考这件事，一切就都崩溃了。他不能承认当时自己错了，因为当时他的精神状况对他来说很宝贵，而承认这是软弱的证明就等于亵渎了那些时刻。他内心极度分裂，竭尽全力想要摆脱这种状况。

Chapter 9
第9章

These doubts fretted and harassed him, growing weaker or stronger from time to time, but never leaving him. He read and thought, and the more he read and the more he thought, the further he felt from the aim he was pursuing.
这些疑虑让他烦恼、困扰，时而减弱，时而强烈，但从未离开过他。他读书、思考，读得越多，思考得越多，他感觉离他所追求的目标就越远。

Of late in Moscow and in the country, since he had become convinced that he would find no solution in the materialists, he had read and re-read thoroughly Plato, Spinoza, Kant, Schelling, Hegel, and Schopenhauer, the philosophers who gave a non-materialistic explanation of life.
最近在莫斯科和国内，由于他确信自己无法在唯物主义者那里找到解决办法，他彻底阅读并重读了柏拉图、斯宾诺莎、康德、谢林、黑格尔和叔本华，这些哲学家给了对生命的非物质主义解释。

Their ideas seemed to him fruitful when he was reading or was himself seeking arguments to refute other theories, especially those of the materialists; but as soon as he began to read or sought for himself a solution of problems, the same thing always happened. As long as he followed the fixed definition of obscure words such as spirit, will, freedom, essence, purposely letting himself go into the snare of words the philosophers set for him, he seemed to comprehend something. But he had only to forget the artificial train of reasoning, and to turn from life itself to what had satisfied him while thinking in accordance with the fixed definitions, and all this artificial edifice fell to pieces at once like a house of cards, and it became clear that the edifice had been built up out of those transposed words, apart from anything in life more important than reason.
当他在阅读或自己寻找论据来反驳其他理论时，尤其是唯物主义者的理论时，他们的想法在他看来是富有成效的。但一旦他开始阅读或为自己寻找问题的解决方案，同样的事情总是发生。只要他遵循着精神、意志、自由、本质等晦涩词汇的固定定义，故意让自己陷入哲学家为他设下的词汇陷阱，他似乎就领悟到了一些东西。但只要他忘记了人为的推理过程，从生活本身转向自己满意的事物，按照固定的定义进行思考，所有这些人为的大厦就会像纸牌屋一样立刻土崩瓦解。很明显，这座大厦是用这些换位的词语建造起来的，除了生活中比理性更重要的东西之外。

At one time, reading Schopenhauer, he put in place of his will the word love, and for a couple of days this new philosophy charmed him, till he removed a little away from it. But then, when he turned from life itself to glance at it again, it fell away too, and proved to be the same muslin garment with no warmth in it.
有一次，在读叔本华的著作时，他用爱这个词代替了自己的意志，这一新哲学让他着迷了几天，直到他稍微远离它。但随后，当他从生活本身转向再次看它时，它也掉了下来，证明是同样的平纹细布衣服，里面没有温暖。

His brother Sergey Ivanovitch advised him to read the theological works of Homiakov. Levin read the second volume of Homiakov’s works, and in spite of the elegant, epigrammatic, argumentative style which at first repelled him, he was impressed by the doctrine of the church he found in them. He was struck at first by the idea that the apprehension of divine truths had not been vouchsafed to man, but to a corporation of men bound together by love—to the church. What delighted him was the thought how much easier it was to believe in a still existing living church, embracing all the beliefs of men, and having God at its head, and therefore holy and infallible, and from it to accept the faith in God, in the creation, the fall, the redemption, than to begin with God, a mysterious, far-away God, the creation, etc. But afterwards, on reading a Catholic writer’s history of the church, and then a Greek orthodox writer’s history of the church, and seeing that the two churches, in their very conception infallible, each deny the authority of the other, Homiakov’s doctrine of the church lost all its charm for him, and this edifice crumbled into dust like the philosophers’ edifices.
他的兄弟谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇建议他阅读霍米亚科夫的神学著作。列文读了霍米亚科夫作品的第二卷，尽管一开始他对优雅、警句、辩论的风格感到厌恶，但他在书中发现的教会教义给他留下了深刻的印象。起初，他被这样的想法所震惊：对神圣真理的理解并不是赋予人类的，而是赋予了一群被爱联系在一起的人——教会。令他高兴的是，相信一个仍然存在的活着的教会，拥抱人类所有的信仰，并以上帝为首，因此是神圣的和无误的，并从中接受对上帝的信仰是多么容易，但后来，读了一位天主教作家的教会史，然后又读了一位希腊东正教作家的教会史。霍米亚科夫的教会学说对他来说失去了所有的魅力，这座大厦像哲学家的大厦一样崩溃了。

All that spring he was not himself, and went through fearful moments of horror.
整个春天他都精神不正常，经历了可怕的恐怖时刻。

‘Without knowing what I am and why I am here, life’s impossible; and that I can’t know, and so I can’t live,’ Levin said to himself.
“如果不知道我是什么以及我为什么在这里，生活就不可能；我不知道，所以我无法活下去，”莱文对自己说。

‘In infinite time, in infinite matter, in infinite space, is formed a bubble-organism, and that bubble lasts a while and bursts, and that bubble is Me.’
“在无限的时间、无限的物质、无限的空间中，形成了一个气泡有机体，这个气泡持续一段时间就会破裂，那个气泡就是我。”

It was an agonizing error, but it was the sole logical result of ages of human thought in that direction.
这是一个令人痛苦的错误，但它是人类多年来朝这个方向思考的唯一合乎逻辑的结果。

This was the ultimate belief on which all the systems elaborated by human thought in almost all their ramifications rested. It was the prevalent conviction, and of all other explanations Levin had unconsciously, not knowing when or how, chosen it, as anyway the clearest, and made it his own.
这是人类思想所阐述的所有系统及其几乎所有分支所依赖的终极信念。这是普遍的信念，在所有其他解释中，莱文不知何时或如何无意识地选择了它，因为无论如何它是最明确的，并将其变成了他自己的。

But it was not merely a falsehood, it was the cruel jeer of some wicked power, some evil, hateful power, to whom one could not submit.
但这不仅仅是谎言，这是某种邪恶力量、某种邪恶、可憎的力量的残酷嘲笑，人们无法屈服于它。

He must escape from this power. And the means of escape every man had in his own hands. He had but to cut short this dependence on evil. And there was one means—death.
他必须逃离这个力量。而逃生的方法，每个人都掌握在自己的手中。他必须切断这种对邪恶的依赖。而手段只有一种——死亡。

And Levin, a happy father and husband, in perfect health, was several times so near suicide that he hid the cord that he might not be tempted to hang himself, and was afraid to go out with his gun for fear of shooting himself.
莱文是一位快乐的父亲和丈夫，身体健康，有好几次差点自杀，他把绳子藏了起来，以免想上吊自杀，也不敢带着枪出去，生怕开枪自杀。

But Levin did not shoot himself, and did not hang himself; he went on living.
但莱文并没有开枪自杀，也没有上吊自杀。他继续生活。

Chapter 10
第10章

When Levin thought what he was and what he was living for, he could find no answer to the questions and was reduced to despair, but he left off questioning himself about it. It seemed as though he knew both what he was and for what he was living, for he acted and lived resolutely and without hesitation. Indeed, in these latter days he was far more decided and unhesitating in life than he had ever been.
当莱文思考自己是什么、为了什么而活时，他找不到问题的答案，陷入绝望，但他不再追问自己。似乎他既知道自己是什么，也知道自己为了什么而活，因为他的行动和生活坚定而毫不犹豫。事实上，在最近的日子里，他在生活中比以往任何时候都更加坚定和毫不犹豫。

When he went back to the country at the beginning of June, he went back also to his usual pursuits. The management of the estate, his relations with the peasants and the neighbors, the care of his household, the management of his sister’s and brother’s property, of which he had the direction, his relations with his wife and kindred, the care of his child, and the new bee-keeping hobby he had taken up that spring, filled all his time.
当他六月初回国时，他也回到了他平常的追求中。庄园的管理，他与农民和邻居的关系，照顾他的家庭，管理他所指导的兄弟姐妹的财产，他与妻子和亲戚的关系，照顾他的孩子那年春天他开始养成的新养蜂爱好占据了他所有的时间。

These things occupied him now, not because he justified them to himself by any sort of general principles, as he had done in former days; on the contrary, disappointed by the failure of his former efforts for the general welfare, and too much occupied with his own thought and the mass of business with which he was burdened from all sides, he had completely given up thinking of the general good, and he busied himself with all this work simply because it seemed to him that he must do what he was doing—that he could not do otherwise. In former days—almost from childhood, and increasingly up to full manhood—when he had tried to do anything that would be good for all, for humanity, for Russia, for the whole village, he had noticed that the idea of it had been pleasant, but the work itself had always been incoherent, that then he had never had a full conviction of its absolute necessity, and that the work that had begun by seeming so great, had grown less and less, till it vanished into nothing. But now, since his marriage, when he had begun to confine himself more and more to living for himself, though he experienced no delight at all at the thought of the work he was doing, he felt a complete conviction of its necessity, saw that it succeeded far better than in old days, and that it kept on growing more and more.
这些事情现在占据了他的心，并不是因为他像以前那样，用任何一般原则来为自己辩护这些事情；而是因为他现在正在考虑这些事情。相反，他对自己以前为公众福利所做的努力失败感到失望，并且过于专注于自己的思想和来自各方的事务，他完全放弃了对公众利益的思考，他忙于所有这些工作，只是因为在他看来，他必须做他正在做的事情，否则他就不能做。以前——几乎从童年开始，逐渐长大成人——当他试图做任何对所有人、对人类、对俄罗斯、对整个村庄有益的事情时，他注意到这个想法一直是令人愉快，但工作本身总是语无伦次，那时他从未完全相信它的绝对必要性，而且开始时看起来如此伟大的工作变得越来越小，直到消失殆尽。但现在，自从结婚以来，当他开始越来越多地限制自己为自己而活时，尽管他对自己正在做的工作没有感到任何快乐，但他完全相信它的必要性，看到了它比以前取得了更大的成功，并且规模不断扩大。

Now, involuntarily it seemed, he cut more and more deeply into the soil like a plough, so that he could not be drawn out without turning aside the furrow.
现在，他似乎不由自主地像犁一样深深地切入土壤，这样，如果不翻开犁沟，他就无法被拉出来。

To live the same family life as his father and forefathers—that is, in the same condition of culture—and to bring up his children in the same, was incontestably necessary. It was as necessary as dining when one was hungry. And to do this, just as it was necessary to cook dinner, it was necessary to keep the mechanism of agriculture at Pokrovskoe going so as to yield an income. Just as incontestably as it was necessary to repay a debt was it necessary to keep the property in such a condition that his son, when he received it as a heritage, would say ‘thank you’ to his father as Levin had said ‘thank you’ to his grandfather for all he built and planted. And to do this it was necessary to look after the land himself, not to let it, and to breed cattle, manure the fields, and plant timber.
与他的父亲和祖先过同样的家庭生活，即在同样的文化条件下，并在同样的文化条件下抚养他的孩子，毫无疑问是必要的。这就像饿了就吃饭一样必要。为此，就像必须做饭一样，有必要保持波克罗夫斯科耶的农业机制运转以产生收入。正如必须偿还债务一样，有必要将财产保持在这样一种状态，即当他的儿子收到它作为遗产时，他会对他的父亲说“谢谢”，就像莱文说的“谢谢”一样。 ’感谢他的祖父所建造和种植的一切。要做到这一点，就必须亲自看管土地，而不是出租土地，并饲养牲畜、施肥、种植木材。

It was impossible not to look after the affairs of Sergey Ivanovitch, of his sister, of the peasants who came to him for advice and were accustomed to do so—as impossible as to fling down a child one is carrying in one’s arms. It was necessary to look after the comfort of his sister-in-law and her children, and of his wife and baby, and it was impossible not to spend with them at least a short time each day.
不关心谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇的事务、关心他的妹妹的事务、关心那些向他寻求建议并习惯于这样做的农民的事务是不可能的——就像扔掉怀里抱着的孩子一样不可能。照顾嫂子、孩子、妻子和孩子的舒适是必要的，每天至少有一小段时间和他们在一起是不可能的。

And all this, together with shooting and his new bee-keeping, filled up the whole of Levin’s life, which had no meaning at all for him, when he began to think.
而这一切，加上射击和新养蜂，填满了莱文的整个生活，当他开始思考时，这对他来说毫无意义。

But besides knowing thoroughly what he had to do, Levin knew in just the same way how he had to do it all, and what was more important than the rest.
但是，除了彻底知道他必须做什么之外，莱文也以同样的方式知道他必须如何做这一切，以及什么比其他事情更重要。

He knew he must hire laborers as cheaply as possible; but to hire men under bond, paying them in advance at less than the current rate of wages, was what he must not do, even though it was very profitable. Selling straw to the peasants in times of scarcity of provender was what he might do, even though he felt sorry for them; but the tavern and the pothouse must be put down, though they were a source of income. Felling timber must be punished as severely as possible, but he could not exact forfeits for cattle being driven onto his fields; and though it annoyed the keeper and made the peasants not afraid to graze their cattle on his land, he could not keep their cattle as a punishment.
他知道他必须尽可能便宜地雇用工人；但是，他绝不能以低于现行工资水平的价格雇用保释人员，尽管这很有利可图。在粮草匮乏的时候，他可能会做的就是向农民出售稻草，尽管他为他们感到难过；但酒馆和酒馆必须废除，尽管它们是收入来源。砍伐木材必须受到尽可能严厉的惩罚，但他不能对赶到他田地里的牛进行没收；尽管这惹恼了饲养员，并使农民不再害怕在他的土地上放牧，但他不能保留他们的牛作为惩罚。

To Pyotr, who was paying a money-lender 10 per cent. a month, he must lend a sum of money to set him free. But he could not let off peasants who did not pay their rent, nor let them fall into arrears. It was impossible to overlook the bailiff’s not having mown the meadows and letting the hay spoil; and it was equally impossible to mow those acres where a young copse had been planted. It was impossible to excuse a laborer who had gone home in the busy season because his father was dying, however sorry he might feel for him, and he must subtract from his pay those costly months of idleness. But it was impossible not to allow monthly rations to the old servants who were of no use for anything.
彼得向放债人支付了 10% 的利息。每个月，他必须借一笔钱才能让他重获自由。但他不能放过那些拖欠租金的农民，也不能让他们陷入欠租的境地。法警没有修剪草地，任由干草腐烂，这是不可能忽视的。同样不可能修剪那些种植了年轻灌木丛的土地。一个工人在农忙季节因父亲病危而回家，无论他对他感到多么难过，都是不可能原谅的，而且他必须从他的工资中扣除那几个月代价高昂的无所事事。但不可能不给那些没什么用的老仆人每月的口粮。

Levin knew that when he got home he must first of all go to his wife, who was unwell, and that the peasants who had been waiting for three hours to see him could wait a little longer. He knew too that, regardless of all the pleasure he felt in taking a swarm, he must forego that pleasure, and leave the old man to see to the bees alone, while he talked to the peasants who had come after him to the bee-house.
莱文知道，回到家后，他必须首先去看望身体不适的妻子，而那些已经等了三个小时才能见到他的农民可以再等一会儿。他也知道，不管他在捕捉蜂群时感到多么快乐，他都必须放弃这种快乐，让老人独自照顾蜜蜂，而他则与跟随他来照顾蜜蜂的农民交谈——房子。

Whether he were acting rightly or wrongly he did not know, and far from trying to prove that he was, nowadays he avoided all thought or talk about it.
他不知道自己的行为是对还是错，而且现在他根本不试图证明自己是对的，而是回避所有的想法或谈论它。

Reasoning had brought him to doubt, and prevented him from seeing what he ought to do and what he ought not. When he did not think, but simply lived, he was continually aware of the presence of an infallible judge in his soul, determining which of two possible courses of action was the better and which was the worse, and as soon as he did not act rightly, he was at once aware of it.
推理使他产生了怀疑，使他看不到自己应该做什么、不应该做什么。当他不思考而只是生活时，他不断地意识到他的灵魂中有一位绝对正确的法官，判断两种可能的行动方针中哪一个更好，哪一个更坏，一旦他不采取行动没错，他立刻就意识到了这一点。

So he lived, not knowing and not seeing any chance of knowing what he was and what he was living for, and harassed at this lack of knowledge to such a point that he was afraid of suicide, and yet firmly laying down his own individual definite path in life.
他就这样生活着，不知道，也看不到任何机会知道自己是什么，为了什么而活，并因这种缺乏知识而感到困扰，以至于他害怕自杀，但坚定地奠定了自己个人的明确目标。人生道路。

Chapter 11
第11章

The day on which Sergey Ivanovitch came to Pokrovskoe was one of Levin’s most painful days. It was the very busiest working time, when all the peasantry show an extraordinary intensity of self-sacrifice in labor, such as is never shown in any other conditions of life, and would be highly esteemed if the men who showed these qualities themselves thought highly of them, and if it were not repeated every year, and if the results of this intense labor were not so simple.
谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇来到波克罗夫斯科耶的那天是莱文最痛苦的日子之一。这是最繁忙的工作时间，所有农民都表现出异常强烈的劳动自我牺牲精神，这是在其他生活条件下从未表现出的，如果表现出这些品质的人自己受到高度评价，他们就会受到高度尊重。如果不是每年都重复，如果这种紧张劳动的结果不是那么简单的话。

To reap and bind the rye and oats and to carry it, to mow the meadows, turn over the fallows, thrash the seed and sow the winter corn—all this seems so simple and ordinary; but to succeed in getting through it all everyone in the village, from the old man to the young child, must toil incessantly for three or four weeks, three times as hard as usual, living on rye-beer, onions, and black bread, thrashing and carrying the sheaves at night, and not giving more than two or three hours in the twenty-four to sleep. And every year this is done all over Russia.
收割黑麦和燕麦，捆扎起来，搬运起来，割草，翻耕休耕地，打碎种子，播种冬玉米——这一切看起来都是那么简单和平常；但为了成功地度过这一切，村里的每个人，从老人到小孩，都必须连续三四个星期辛苦劳作，比平时辛苦三倍，靠黑麦啤酒、洋葱和黑面包为生，晚上打捆、搬运禾捆，二十四小时睡觉的时间不超过两三个小时。每年俄罗斯各地都会这样做。

Having lived the greater part of his life in the country and in the closest relations with the peasants, Levin always felt in this busy time that he was infected by this general quickening of energy in the people.
莱文一生的大部分时间都在乡村度过，与农民有着最密切的关系，在这个忙碌的时期，他总是感到自己被人民普遍活跃的活力所感染。

In the early morning he rode over to the first sowing of the rye, and to the oats, which were being carried to the stacks, and returning home at the time his wife and sister-in-law were getting up, he drank coffee with them and walked to the farm, where a new thrashing machine was to be set working to get ready the seed-corn.
清晨，他骑马去黑麦和燕麦的第一播场，燕麦正被运到堆垛处，回到家时，妻子和嫂子起床了，他一边喝着咖啡，一边喝着咖啡。他们步行到农场，那里将安装一台新的打谷机，准备玉米种子。

He was standing in the cool granary, still fragrant with the leaves of the hazel branches interlaced on the freshly peeled aspen beams of the new thatch roof. He gazed through the open door in which the dry bitter dust of the thrashing whirled and played, at the grass of the thrashing floor in the sunlight and the fresh straw that had been brought in from the barn, then at the speckly-headed, white-breasted swallows that flew chirping in under the roof and, fluttering their wings, settled in the crevices of the doorway, then at the peasants bustling in the dark, dusty barn, and he thought strange thoughts.
他站在凉爽的粮仓里，榛树枝叶交错在新茅草屋顶上刚剥过皮的白杨梁上，仍然散发着芳香。他透过敞开的门，凝视着鞭打时干燥而苦涩的灰尘在里面旋转和嬉戏，看着阳光下鞭打场上的青草和从谷仓运来的新鲜稻草，然后看着那些头上有斑点的白色小草。胸脯的燕子在屋顶下叽叽喳喳地飞来，拍打着翅膀，停在门口的缝隙里，然后飞向在黑暗、尘土飞扬的谷仓里忙碌的农民，他想到了奇怪的想法。

‘Why is it all being done?’ he thought. ‘Why am I standing here, making them work? What are they all so busy for, trying to show their zeal before me? What is that old Matrona, my old friend, toiling for? (I doctored her, when the beam fell on her in the fire)’ he thought, looking at a thin old woman who was raking up the grain, moving painfully with her bare, sun-blackened feet over the uneven, rough floor. ‘Then she recovered, but today or tomorrow or in ten years she won’t; they’ll bury her, and nothing will be left either of her or of that smart girl in the red jacket, who with that skillful, soft action shakes the ears out of their husks. They’ll bury her and this piebald horse, and very soon too,’ he thought, gazing at the heavily moving, panting horse that kept walking up the wheel that turned under him. ‘And they will bury her and Fyodor the thrasher with his curly beard full of chaff and his shirt torn on his white shoulders—they will bury him. He’s untying the sheaves, and giving orders, and shouting to the women, and quickly setting straight the strap on the moving wheel. And what’s more, it’s not them alone—me they’ll bury too, and nothing will be left. What for?’
“为什么要做这一切？”他想。 ‘为什么我要站在这里，让他们工作？他们这么忙到底是为了什么，在我面前表现出他们的热情？我的老朋友，那个老马特罗纳，到底在为了什么而辛苦劳作呢？ （当梁落在火中时，我给她做了手术）”他一边想，一边看着一位瘦弱的老妇人，她正在耙起谷物，赤裸的、被太阳晒黑的脚在凹凸不平、粗糙的地板上痛苦地移动。 “然后她就康复了，但是今天、明天或者十年后她都不会；他们会埋葬她，无论是她还是那个穿红夹克的聪明女孩都不会留下任何东西，她用巧妙而柔和的动作将耳朵从外壳中摇出来。他们会埋葬她和这匹花斑马，而且很快就会埋葬，”他一边想，一边凝视着那匹气喘吁吁、沉重地移动着的马，它一直在他脚下转动的轮子上行走。 “他们会埋葬她和鸨鹬费奥多尔，他的卷发胡须上满是糠秕，衬衫在白色的肩膀上撕破了——他们会埋葬他。他正在解开滑轮，向女人们发出命令，大喊大叫，并迅速将移动轮上的带子拉直。更重要的是，不仅仅是他们，他们也会埋葬我，什么也不会留下。做什么的？'

He thought this, and at the same time looked at his watch to reckon how much they thrashed in an hour. He wanted to know this so as to judge by it the task to set for the day.
他这样想着，同时看了看手表，计算着他们一个小时内扭动了多少次。他想知道这一点，以便据此判断当天的任务。

‘It’ll soon be one, and they’re only beginning the third sheaf,’ thought Levin. He went up to the man that was feeding the machine, and shouting over the roar of the machine he told him to put it in more slowly. ‘You put in too much at a time, Fyodor. Do you see—it gets choked, that’s why it isn’t getting on. Do it evenly.’
“很快就会成为一捆，而他们才刚刚开始第三捆，”莱文想。他走向正在给机器喂食的人，在机器的轰鸣声中大喊大叫，告诉他放慢点。 “你一次投入太多了，费奥多尔。你看到了吗——它被噎住了，这就是它无法继续前进的原因。均匀地进行。

Fyodor, black with the dust that clung to his moist face, shouted something in response, but still went on doing it as Levin did not want him to.
费奥多尔湿润的脸上沾满了灰尘，脸色黝黑，他喊了些什么作为回应，但仍然继续这样做，因为莱文不希望他这么做。

Levin, going up to the machine, moved Fyodor aside, and began feeding the corn in himself. Working on till the peasants’ dinner hour, which was not long in coming, he went out of the barn with Fyodor and fell into talk with him, stopping beside a neat yellow sheaf of rye laid on the thrashing floor for seed.
莱文走到机器前，把费奥多尔移到一边，开始自己喂玉米。一直工作到农民的晚餐时间，不久之后，他就和费奥多尔一起走出谷仓，与他交谈起来，停在打谷场上放着的一捆整齐的黄色黑麦种子旁。

Fyodor came from a village at some distance from the one in which Levin had once allotted land to his cooperative association. Now it had been let to a former house porter.
费奥多尔来自一个距离莱文曾经向他的合作社分配土地的村庄有一段距离的村庄。现在它已经租给了一位前门房。

Levin talked to Fyodor about this land and asked whether Platon, a well-to-do peasant of good character belonging to the same village, would not take the land for the coming year.
莱文与费奥多尔谈论了这块土地，并询问同村的一位品行良好的富裕农民柏拉图来年是否不会占用这块土地。

‘It’s a high rent; it wouldn’t pay Platon, Konstantin Dmitrievitch,’ answered the peasant, picking the ears off his sweat-drenched shirt.
“租金很高； “柏拉图，康斯坦丁·德米特里耶维奇，这付不了钱。”农民一边回答，一边从汗湿的衬衫上摘下耳朵。

‘But how does Kirillov make it pay?’
“但是基里洛夫如何让它付出代价呢？”

‘Mituh!’ (so the peasant called the house porter, in a tone of contempt), ‘you may be sure he’ll make it pay, Konstantin Dmitrievitch! He’ll get his share, however he has to squeeze to get it! He’s no mercy on a Christian. But Uncle Fokanitch’ (so he called the old peasant Platon), ‘do you suppose he’d flay the skin off a man? Where there’s debt, he’ll let anyone off. And he’ll not wring the last penny out. He’s a man too.’
“米图！”（农夫用轻蔑的语气称呼看门人），“你可以确信他会付出代价的，康斯坦丁·德米特里耶维奇！他会得到属于他的那一份，但他必须竭尽全力才能得到！他对基督徒没有怜悯。但是福卡内奇叔叔”（他这样称呼老农民柏拉图），“你认为他会剥掉一个人的皮吗？只要有债务，他就会放过任何人。他不会榨干最后一分钱。他也是个男人。

‘But why will he let anyone off?’
“但是他为什么会放过任何人呢？”

‘Oh, well, of course, folks are different. One man lives for his own wants and nothing else, like Mituh, he only thinks of filling his belly, but Fokanitch is a righteous man. He lives for his soul. He does not forget God.’
“哦，好吧，当然，人与人之间是不同的。一个人活着只是为了自己的需要，而不是别的，就像米图一样，他只想填饱肚子，但福卡内奇是一个正义的人。他为自己的灵魂而活。他没有忘记上帝。

‘How thinks of God? How does he live for his soul?’ Levin almost shouted.
‘上帝怎么想？他如何为自己的灵魂而活？”莱文几乎喊道。

‘Why, to be sure, in truth, in God’s way. Folks are different. Take you now, you wouldn’t wrong a man....’
‘当然，确实是按照上帝的方式。人与人不同。现在就拿你来说吧，你不会冤枉一个男人的……”

‘Yes, yes, good-bye!’ said Levin, breathless with excitement, and turning round he took his stick and walked quickly away towards home. At the peasant’s words that Fokanitch lived for his soul, in truth, in God’s way, undefined but significant ideas seemed to burst out as though they had been locked up, and all striving towards one goal, they thronged whirling through his head, blinding him with their light.
“是的，是的，再见！”莱文激动得喘不过气来，转身拿起手杖快步朝家走去。农民说福卡内奇是为自己的灵魂而活，事实上，是按照上帝的方式而活，一些不明确但意义重大的想法似乎突然爆发出来，就像它们被锁起来一样，所有的努力都朝着同一个目标，它们在他的脑海里盘旋，让他盲目。用他们的光。

Chapter 12
第12章

Levin strode along the highroad, absorbed not so much in his thoughts (he could not yet disentangle them) as in his spiritual condition, unlike anything he had experienced before.
莱文沿着大路大步走着，与其说他全神贯注于他的思绪（他还无法理清它们），不如说他全神贯注于他的精神状况，这与他以前经历过的任何事情都不一样。

The words uttered by the peasant had acted on his soul like an electric shock, suddenly transforming and combining into a single whole the whole swarm of disjointed, impotent, separate thoughts that incessantly occupied his mind. These thoughts had unconsciously been in his mind even when he was talking about the land.
农民说出的这句话，如同触电般触动了他的灵魂，让他脑子里不断出现的那些杂乱无章的、无力的、各自为政的思绪突然化为一个整体。甚至在他谈论土地的时候，这些想法就已经不自觉地出现在他的脑海里了。

He was aware of something new in his soul, and joyfully tested this new thing, not yet knowing what it was.
他意识到自己的灵魂中有一些新的东西，并高兴地测试了这个新东西，但还不知道它是什么。

‘Not living for his own wants, but for God? For what God? And could one say anything more senseless than what he said? He said that one must not live for one’s own wants, that is, that one must not live for what we understand, what we are attracted by, what we desire, but must live for something incomprehensible, for God, whom no one can understand nor even define. What of it? Didn’t I understand those senseless words of Fyodor’s? And understanding them, did I doubt of their truth? Did I think them stupid, obscure, inexact? No, I understood him, and exactly as he understands the words. I understood them more fully and clearly than I understand anything in life, and never in my life have I doubted nor can I doubt about it. And not only I, but everyone, the whole world understands nothing fully but this, and about this only they have no doubt and are always agreed.
‘不是为自己的需要而活，而是为上帝而活？为了什么神？还有比他说的话更无意义的话吗？他说，人不能为自己的需要而活，也就是说，人不能为我们所理解的、我们所吸引的、我们所渴望的而活，而必须为一些不可理解的东西而活，为无人能理解的上帝而活。甚至也没有定义。那又怎样呢？难道我没听懂费奥多尔那些无意义的话吗？了解它们后，我是否怀疑它们的真实性？我是否认为它们愚蠢、晦涩、不准确？不，我理解他，而且正如他理解的那样。我对它们的理解比我对生活中任何事情的理解都更全面、更清楚，我一生中从未怀疑过，也不能怀疑这一点。不仅是我，每个人、整个世界都完全明白这一点，而且只有这一点他们才没有怀疑，而且总是一致同意。

‘And I looked out for miracles, complained that I did not see a miracle which would convince me. A material miracle would have persuaded me. And here is a miracle, the sole miracle possible, continually existing, surrounding me on all sides, and I never noticed it!
“我期待着奇迹，抱怨说我没有看到能让我信服的奇迹。一个物质奇迹就会说服我。这是一个奇迹，唯一可能的奇迹，持续存在，从四面八方包围着我，而我却从未注意到它！

‘Fyodor says that Kirillov lives for his belly. That’s comprehensible and rational. All of us as rational beings can’t do anything else but live for our belly. And all of a sudden the same Fyodor says that one mustn’t live for one’s belly, but must live for truth, for God, and at a hint I understand him! And I and millions of men, men who lived ages ago and men living now— peasants, the poor in spirit and the learned, who have thought and written about it, in their obscure words saying the same thing—we are all agreed about this one thing: what we must live for and what is good. I and all men have only one firm, incontestable, clear knowledge, and that knowledge cannot be explained by the reason—it is outside it, and has no causes and can have no effects.
费奥多尔说基里洛夫是为了肚子而活。这是可以理解和合理的。作为理性的人，我们除了为自己的肚子而活，别无他法。突然间，同一个费奥多尔说，一个人不能为自己的肚子而活，而必须为真理、为上帝而活，我突然明白了他的意思！我和数以百万计的人，无论是生活在很久以前的人，还是生活在现在的人——农民、精神上的穷人和有学问的人，他们思考过这个问题，也写过这个问题，用他们晦涩难懂的语言说着同样的话——我们都同意这一点。一件事：我们必须为了什么而活，什么是好的。我和所有人都只有一种坚定的、无可争议的、明确的知识，而这种知识不能用理性来解释——它在理性之外，没有原因，也没有结果。

‘If goodness has causes, it is not goodness; if it has effects, a reward, it is not goodness either. So goodness is outside the chain of cause and effect.
‘若善有因，则非善；若有因，则非善；如果它有效果、有奖赏，那也不是善。所以善是在因果链之外的。

‘And yet I know it, and we all know it.
“但我知道这一点，我们都知道这一点。

‘What could be a greater miracle than that?
‘还有什么比这更伟大的奇迹呢？

‘Can I have found the solution of it all? can my sufferings be over?’ thought Levin, striding along the dusty road, not noticing the heat nor his weariness, and experiencing a sense of relief from prolonged suffering. This feeling was so delicious that it seemed to him incredible. He was breathless with emotion and incapable of going farther; he turned off the road into the forest and lay down in the shade of an aspen on the uncut grass. He took his hat off his hot head and lay propped on his elbow in the lush, feathery, woodland grass.
‘我能找到解决这一切的办法吗？我的痛苦可以结束了吗？”列文一边想，一边大步走在尘土飞扬的路上，没有注意到炎热，也没有注意到自己的疲倦，感受到了一种从长期痛苦中解脱出来的感觉。这种感觉实在是太美妙了，让他觉得不可思议。他激动得喘不过气来，无力再走下去。他离开公路进入森林，躺在未修剪的草地上的白杨树荫下。他把帽子从炎热的头上摘下来，用肘部支撑在茂密的、羽毛状的林地草地上。

‘Yes, I must make it clear to myself and understand,’ he thought, looking intently at the untrampled grass before him, and following the movements of a green beetle, advancing along a blade of couch-grass and lifting up in its progress a leaf of goat-weed. ‘What have I discovered?’ he asked himself, bending aside the leaf of goat-weed out of the beetle’s way and twisting another blade of grass above for the beetle to cross over onto it. ‘What is it makes me glad? What have I discovered?
“是的，我必须让自己弄清楚并理解，”他想道，全神贯注地看着面前那片未被践踏的草地，跟随一只绿色甲虫的动作，沿着一片沙发草叶前进，并在前进过程中举起一个山羊杂草的叶子。 “我发现了什么？”他问自己，一边把山羊草的叶子弯到一边，让甲虫挡住路，又扭转上面的另一片草叶，让甲虫跨过去。 ‘什么让我高兴？我发现了什么？

‘I have discovered nothing. I have only found out what I knew. I understand the force that in the past gave me life, and now too gives me life. I have been set free from falsity, I have found the Master.
‘我什么也没发现。我只发现了我所知道的。我了解过去赋予我生命的力量，现在也赋予我生命。我已经从虚假中解脱出来，我找到了明师。

‘Of old I used to say that in my body, that in the body of this grass and of this beetle (there, she didn’t care for the grass, she’s opened her wings and flown away), there was going on a transformation of matter in accordance with physical, chemical, and physiological laws. And in all of us, as well as in the aspens and the clouds and the misty patches, there was a process of evolution. Evolution from what? into what?—Eternal evolution and struggle.... As though there could be any sort of tendency and struggle in the eternal! And I was astonished that in spite of the utmost effort of thought along that road I could not discover the meaning of life, the meaning of my impulses and yearnings. Now I say that I know the meaning of my life: ‘To live for God, for my soul.’ And this meaning, in spite of its clearness, is mysterious and marvelous. Such, indeed, is the meaning of everything existing. Yes, pride,’ he said to himself, turning over on his stomach and beginning to tie a noose of blades of grass, trying not to break them.
“以前我常说，在我的身体里，在这草和这只甲虫的身体里（在那里，她不关心草，她张开翅膀飞走了），正在发生转变物质按照物理、化学和生理规律进行排列。在我们所有人身上，以及在白杨、云彩和薄雾中，都有一个进化的过程。从什么进化而来？进入什么？——永恒的进化和斗争……仿佛永恒中可能存在任何形式的倾向和斗争！令我惊讶的是，尽管我沿着这条路尽了最大的努力思考，但我却无法发现生命的意义，我的冲动和渴望的意义。现在我说我知道了我生命的意义：“为上帝而活，为我的灵魂而活。”这个意义尽管清晰，却是神秘而奇妙的。这确实是一切存在的意义。是的，骄傲。”他对自己说，翻身开始用草叶套索，尽量不弄断它们。

‘And not merely pride of intellect, but dulness of intellect. And most of all, the deceitfulness; yes, the deceitfulness of intellect. The cheating knavishness of intellect, that’s it,’ he said to himself.
‘不仅是智力上的骄傲，而且是智力上的迟钝。最重要的是，欺骗；是的，智力的欺骗性。智力的欺骗性狡猾，就是这样，”他对自己说。

And he briefly went through, mentally, the whole course of his ideas during the last two years, the beginning of which was the clear confronting of death at the sight of his dear brother hopelessly ill.
他在心里简单地回顾了过去两年里他的整个想法，而这一切的开始就是在看到他亲爱的兄弟病入膏肓时，明确地面对死亡。

Then, for the first time, grasping that for every man, and himself too, there was nothing in store but suffering, death, and forgetfulness, he had made up his mind that life was impossible like that, and that he must either interpret life so that it would not present itself to him as the evil jest of some devil, or shoot himself.
然后，他第一次意识到，对于每个人，也包括他自己来说，除了痛苦、死亡和遗忘之外，别无他物，他下定决心，生活不可能像那样，他必须要么解释生活，要么解释生活。这样他就不会认为这是某个魔鬼的邪恶玩笑，或者开枪自杀。

But he had not done either, but had gone on living, thinking, and feeling, and had even at that very time married, and had had many joys and had been happy, when he was not thinking of the meaning of his life.
但他两者都没有做，而是继续生活、思考和感受，甚至在那时就结婚了，当他不思考自己生命的意义时，他享受了许多欢乐和幸福。

What did this mean? It meant that he had been living rightly, but thinking wrongly.
这是什么意思？这意味着他一直在正确地生活，但思考错误。

He had lived (without being aware of it) on those spiritual truths that he had sucked in with his mother’s milk, but he had thought, not merely without recognition of these truths, but studiously ignoring them.
他（在没有意识到的情况下）靠着用母乳吸吮的那些精神真理而生活，但他认为，不仅没有认识到这些真理，而且故意忽视它们。

Now it was clear to him that he could only live by virtue of the beliefs in which he had been brought up.
现在他很清楚，他只能凭借从小养成的信念而生活。

‘What should I have been, and how should I have spent my life, if I had not had these beliefs, if I had not known that I must live for God and not for my own desires? I should have robbed and lied and killed. Nothing of what makes the chief happiness of my life would have existed for me.’ And with the utmost stretch of imagination he could not conceive the brutal creature he would have been himself, if he had not known what he was living for.
“如果我没有这些信念，如果我不知道我必须为上帝而不是为自己的欲望而活，我应该是什么样子，我应该如何度过我的一生？我应该抢劫、撒谎、杀人。对我来说，构成我生命中最大幸福的一切都不会存在。”即使他有最大的想象力，他也无法想象，如果他不知道自己为什么而活，他自己会是一个残酷的生物。

‘I looked for an answer to my question. And thought could not give an answer to my question—it is incommensurable with my question. The answer has been given me by life itself, in my knowledge of what is right and what is wrong. And that knowledge I did not arrive at in any way, it was given to me as to all men, given, because I could not have got it from anywhere.
“我寻找问题的答案。而思想无法回答我的问题——它与我的问题不可通约。生活本身已经给了我答案，我知道什么是对的，什么是错的。我没有以任何方式获得这种知识，它是给我的，就像所有人一样，给我的，因为我无法从任何地方得到它。

‘Where could I have got it? By reason could I have arrived at knowing that I must love my neighbor and not oppress him? I was told that in my childhood, and I believed it gladly, for they told me what was already in my soul. But who discovered it? Not reason. Reason discovered the struggle for existence, and the law that requires us to oppress all who hinder the satisfaction of our desires. That is the deduction of reason. But loving one’s neighbor reason could never discover, because it’s irrational.’
‘我从哪里能得到它？我能凭理性知道我必须爱我的邻居而不是压迫他吗？我在童年时就被告知了这一点，我很高兴地相信了这一点，因为他们告诉了我已经存在于我灵魂中的东西。但是谁发现的呢？不是理由。理性发现了生存斗争，以及要求我们压迫所有阻碍我们欲望满足的人的法律。这就是理性的推论。但爱邻舍的理性永远无法发现，因为它是非理性的。

Chapter 13
第13章

And Levin remembered a scene he had lately witnessed between Dolly and her children. The children, left to themselves, had begun cooking raspberries over the candles and squirting milk into each other’s mouths with a syringe. Their mother, catching them at these pranks, began reminding them in Levin’s presence of the trouble their mischief gave to the grown-up people, and that this trouble was all for their sake, and that if they smashed the cups they would have nothing to drink their tea out of, and that if they wasted the milk, they would have nothing to eat, and die of hunger.
莱文想起了他最近在多莉和她的孩子们之间目睹的一幕。孩子们独自一人，开始在蜡烛上煮覆盆子，并用注射器将牛奶喷到彼此的嘴里。他们的母亲发现了他们的恶作剧，开始当着莱文的面提醒他们，他们的恶作剧给成年人带来了麻烦，而这些麻烦都是为了他们，如果他们打碎了杯子，他们就没有什么可做的了。他们喝茶，如果浪费了牛奶，他们就会没有东西吃，就会饿死。

And Levin had been struck by the passive, weary incredulity with which the children heard what their mother said to them. They were simply annoyed that their amusing play had been interrupted, and did not believe a word of what their mother was saying. They could not believe it indeed, for they could not take in the immensity of all they habitually enjoyed, and so could not conceive that what they were destroying was the very thing they lived by.
莱文对孩子们听到母亲对他们说的话时表现出的消极、疲倦的怀疑感到震惊。他们只是因为有趣的游戏被打断而感到恼火，并且不相信母亲所说的话。他们确实无法相信这一点，因为他们无法理解他们习惯性享受的一切的巨大性，因此无法想象他们正在摧毁的正是他们赖以生存的东西。

‘That all comes of itself,’ they thought, ‘and there’s nothing interesting or important about it because it has always been so, and always will be so. And it’s all always the same. We’ve no need to think about that, it’s all ready. But we want to invent something of our own, and new. So we thought of putting raspberries in a cup, and cooking them over a candle, and squirting milk straight into each other’s mouths. That’s fun, and something new, and not a bit worse than drinking out of cups.’
“这一切都是自然而然的，”他们想，“这没有什么有趣或重要的，因为它一直如此，而且永远如此。”而且一切总是一样的。我们不需要考虑这个，一切都准备好了。但我们想发明一些我们自己的、新的东西。所以我们想到将覆盆子放入杯子中，然后在蜡烛上烹饪，然后将牛奶直接喷入对方的嘴里。这很有趣，而且是新事物，而且比用杯子喝水差不了一点。”

‘Isn’t it just the same that we do, that I did, searching by the aid of reason for the significance of the forces of nature and the meaning of the life of man?’ he thought.
“这不正是我们所做的，我所做的，借助理性来寻找自然力量的意义和人类生命的意义吗？”他想。

‘And don’t all the theories of philosophy do the same, trying by the path of thought, which is strange and not natural to man, to bring him to a knowledge of what he has known long ago, and knows so certainly that he could not live at all without it? Isn’t it distinctly to be seen in the development of each philosopher’s theory, that he knows what is the chief significance of life beforehand, just as positively as the peasant Fyodor, and not a bit more clearly than he, and is simply trying by a dubious intellectual path to come back to what everyone knows?
“所有的哲学理论不都在做同样的事，试图通过对人来说陌生且不自然的思维路径，使人获得他很久以前就知道的知识，并且非常肯定地知道，他没有它就根本活不下去吗？在每个哲学家的理论的发展中，难道不是可以清楚地看到，他事先就知道生命的主要意义是什么，就像农民费奥多尔一样积极，但并不比他更清楚，并且只是试图通过回到大家都知道的事情的可疑的智力路径？

‘Now then, leave the children to themselves to get things alone and make their crockery, get the milk from the cows, and so on. Would they be naughty then? Why, they’d die of hunger! Well, then, leave us with our passions and thoughts, without any idea of the one God, of the Creator, or without any idea of what is right, without any idea of moral evil.
“那么，现在就让孩子们自己去拿东西，制作陶器，从奶牛那里取牛奶，等等。那时他们会淘气吗？为什么，他们会饿死的！好吧，那么，让我们留下我们的激情和思想，对独一的上帝、造物主没有任何想法，或者对什么是正确的没有任何想法，对道德邪恶没有任何想法。

‘Just try and build up anything without those ideas!
“尝试在没有这些想法的情况下构建任何东西！”

‘We only try to destroy them, because we’re spiritually provided for. Exactly like the children!
“我们只是试图摧毁它们，因为我们在精神上得到了满足。和孩子们一模一样！

‘Whence have I that joyful knowledge, shared with the peasant, that alone gives peace to my soul? Whence did I get it?
“我与农民分享的快乐知识从何而来，唯有它才能给我的灵魂带来平安？我从哪里得到它？

‘Brought up with an idea of God, a Christian, my whole life filled with the spiritual blessings Christianity has given me, full of them, and living on those blessings, like the children I did not understand them, and destroy, that is try to destroy, what I live by. And as soon as an important moment of life comes, like the children when they are cold and hungry, I turn to Him, and even less than the children when their mother scolds them for their childish mischief, do I feel that my childish efforts at wanton madness are reckoned against me.
“作为一名基督徒，我在上帝的观念下长大，我的一生充满了基督教给予我的精神祝福，充满了它们，并依靠这些祝福生活，就像我不理解它们的孩子一样，并摧毁了它们，那就是尝试摧毁我赖以生存的东西。当生命的重要时刻到来时，就像孩子们在寒冷和饥饿时，我转向他，甚至不像孩子们在母亲责骂他们幼稚的恶作剧时，我是否感到我幼稚的努力肆意的疯狂都被认为是对我不利的。

‘Yes, what I know, I know not by reason, but it has been given to me, revealed to me, and I know it with my heart, by faith in the chief thing taught by the church.
‘是的，我所知道的，我不是通过理性知道的，而是它被赐予我，启示给我的，而且我凭着对教会所教导的主要事物的信仰，用我的心知道它。

‘The church! the church!’ Levin repeated to himself. He turned over on the other side, and leaning on his elbow, fell to gazing into the distance at a herd of cattle crossing over to the river.
'教堂！教堂！”莱文对自己重复道。他翻到对岸，用手肘撑着，凝视着远处河边的牛群。

‘But can I believe in all the church teaches?’ he thought, trying himself, and thinking of everything that could destroy his present peace of mind. Intentionally he recalled all those doctrines of the church which had always seemed most strange and had always been a stumbling block to him.
“但是我可以相信教会的所有教义吗？”他想，一边尝试着，一边想着一切可能破坏他目前内心平静的事情。他有意地回忆起那些一直以来让他觉得最陌生、一直是他的绊脚石的教会教义。

‘The Creation? But how did I explain existence? By existence? By nothing? The devil and sin. But how do I explain evil?... The atonement?...
'创作？但我如何解释存在呢？靠存在？凭什么？魔鬼与罪恶。但我该如何解释邪恶呢？……赎罪？……

‘But I know nothing, nothing, and I can know nothing but what has been told to me and all men.’
“但我一无所知，一无所知，除了别人告诉我和所有人的事情之外，我什么也不知道。”

And it seemed to him that there was not a single article of faith of the church which could destroy the chief thing—faith in God, in goodness, as the one goal of man’s destiny.
在他看来，教会的任何一条信仰条款都不能摧毁最重要的东西——对上帝、对良善的信仰，作为人类命运的唯一目标。

Under every article of faith of the church could be put the faith in the service of truth instead of one’s desires. And each doctrine did not simply leave that faith unshaken, each doctrine seemed essential to complete that great miracle, continually manifest upon earth, that made it possible for each man and millions of different sorts of men, wise men and imbeciles, old men and children—all men, peasants, Lvov, Kitty, beggars and kings to understand perfectly the same one thing, and to build up thereby that life of the soul which alone is worth living, and which alone is precious to us.
教会的每一条信仰都可以把信仰放在为真理服务而不是为个人欲望服务。每一个教义并不仅仅让信仰保持不动摇，每一个教义似乎对于完成那个伟大的奇迹至关重要，这个奇迹不断地在地球上显现，使每个人和数以百万计的不同类型的人，智者和愚人，老人和孩子成为可能——所有的人，农民，利沃夫，基蒂，乞丐和国王，要完全理解同一件事，并由此建立一种灵魂的生活，只有这种生活才值得过，而且只有这种生活对我们来说才是宝贵的。

Lying on his back, he gazed up now into the high, cloudless sky. ‘Do I not know that that is infinite space, and that it is not a round arch? But, however I screw up my eyes and strain my sight, I cannot see it not round and not bounded, and in spite of my knowing about infinite space, I am incontestably right when I see a solid blue dome, and more right than when I strain my eyes to see beyond it.’
他仰面躺着，抬头凝视着高高无云的天空。 ‘难道我不知道那是无限的空间，而且不是圆拱门吗？但是，无论我如何眯起眼睛，用力观察，我都看不到它不是圆形的、没有边界的，尽管我知道无限的空间，但当我看到一个坚实的蓝色圆顶时，我毫无疑问是正确的，而且比看到一个蓝色圆顶时更正确。我睁大眼睛想看到更远的地方。

Levin ceased thinking, and only, as it were, listened to mysterious voices that seemed talking joyfully and earnestly within him.
莱文停止了思考，只是聆听着他内心那些似乎在快乐而真诚地交谈的神秘声音。

‘Can this be faith?’ he thought, afraid to believe in his happiness. ‘My God, I thank Thee!’ he said, gulping down his sobs, and with both hands brushing away the tears that filled his eyes.
“这就是信仰吗？”他想，不敢相信自己的幸福。 “我的上帝，我感谢你！”他吞咽着抽泣，双手擦去眼中的泪水。

Chapter 14
第14章

Levin looked before him and saw a herd of cattle, then he caught sight of his trap with Raven in the shafts, and the coachman, who, driving up to the herd, said something to the herdsman. Then he heard the rattle of the wheels and the snort of the sleek horse close by him. But he was so buried in his thoughts that he did not even wonder why the coachman had come for him.
莱文向前看去，看到了一群牛，然后他看到了他的陷阱，乌鸦在竖井里，还有车夫，他把车开到牛群前，对牧人说了些什么。然后他听到车轮的嘎嘎声和附近那匹光滑马的鼻息声。但他沉浸在自己的思绪中，根本不知道车夫为何来找他。

He only thought of that when the coachman had driven quite up to him and shouted to him. ‘The mistress sent me. Your brother has come, and some gentleman with him.’
当车夫开到他跟前并对他大喊大叫时，他才想到这一点。 ‘是女主人派我来的。你的兄弟来了，还有一位绅士和他一起来。

Levin got into the trap and took the reins. As though just roused out of sleep, for a long while Levin could not collect his faculties. He stared at the sleek horse flecked with lather between his haunches and on his neck, where the harness rubbed, stared at Ivan the coachman sitting beside him, and remembered that he was expecting his brother, thought that his wife was most likely uneasy at his long absence, and tried to guess who was the visitor who had come with his brother. And his brother and his wife and the unknown guest seemed to him now quite different from before. He fancied that now his relations with all men would be different.
莱文掉入了陷阱并接管了缰绳。莱文就像刚刚从睡梦中醒来一样，很长一段时间都无法恢复理智。他盯着那匹光滑的马，腰间和脖子上都沾满了泡沫，马具摩擦的地方，盯着坐在他旁边的车夫伊凡，想起他正在等他的兄弟，认为他的妻子很可能对他的哥哥感到不安。好久不见，他试着猜猜和他哥哥一起来的客人是谁。而他的兄弟、他的妻子以及那位不知名的客人现在对他来说似乎与以前大不相同了。他觉得现在他与所有人的关系都会有所不同。

‘With my brother there will be none of that aloofness there always used to be between us, there will be no disputes; with Kitty there shall never be quarrels; with the visitor, whoever he may be, I will be friendly and nice; with the servants, with Ivan, it will all be different.’
“和我的兄弟在一起，我们之间不会再有那种冷漠，不会有争执；和凯蒂永远不会发生争吵；对待访客，无论他是谁，我都会友好而友善；有了仆人，有了伊万，一切都会不同。

Pulling the stiff rein and holding in the good horse that snorted with impatience and seemed begging to be let go, Levin looked round at Ivan sitting beside him, not knowing what to do with his unoccupied hand, continually pressing down his shirt as it puffed out, and he tried to find something to start a conversation about with him. He would have said that Ivan had pulled the saddle-girth up too high, but that was like blame, and he longed for friendly, warm talk. Nothing else occurred to him.
拉紧僵硬的缰绳，牵住那匹不耐烦地哼着鼻子、似乎在乞求放开的好马，莱文回头看了一眼坐在他身边的伊万，他那只空着的手不知道该怎么办，不断地压着他那鼓鼓的衬衫。 ，他试图找一些话题来与他交谈。他会说伊万把马鞍带拉得太高了，但这就像责怪，他渴望友好、热情的谈话。他什么也没想到。

‘Your honor must keep to the right and mind that stump,’ said the coachman, pulling the rein Levin held.
“阁下必须靠右行驶，注意那个树桩。”马车夫一边说，一边拉着莱文握着的缰绳。

‘Please don’t touch and don’t teach me!’ said Levin, angered by this interference. Now, as always, interference made him angry, and he felt sorrowfully at once how mistaken had been his supposition that his spiritual condition could immediately change him in contact with reality.
“请不要碰我，也不要教我！”莱文对这种干扰感到愤怒地说。现在，一如既往，干扰让他生气，他立刻感到悲伤，他认为自己的精神状况在接触现实时会立即改变他的想法是多么错误。

He was not a quarter of a mile from home when he saw Grisha and Tanya running to meet him.
当他看到格里沙和坦尼娅跑来迎接他时，距离家还不到四分之一英里。

‘Uncle Kostya! mamma’s coming, and grandfather, and Sergey Ivanovitch, and someone else,’ they said, clambering up into the trap.
“克斯特亚叔叔！妈妈来了，还有祖父、谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇，还有其他人，”他们一边说，一边爬进陷阱。

‘Who is he?’
'他是谁？'

‘An awfully terrible person! And he does like this with his arms,’ said Tanya, getting up in the trap and mimicking Katavasov.
‘一个非常可怕的人！他确实喜欢用手臂这样做，”坦尼娅一边说，一边在陷阱中站起来，模仿卡塔瓦索夫。

‘Old or young?’ asked Levin, laughing, reminded of someone, he did not know whom, by Tanya’s performance.
“老还是年轻？”莱文笑着问道，塔尼娅的表演让他想起了一个人，但他不知道是谁。

‘Oh, I hope it’s not a tiresome person!’ thought Levin.
“哦，我希望这不是一个让人厌烦的人！”莱文想。

As soon as he turned, at a bend in the road, and saw the party coming, Levin recognized Katavasov in a straw hat, walking along swinging his arms just as Tanya had shown him. Katavasov was very fond of discussing metaphysics, having derived his notions from natural science writers who had never studied metaphysics, and in Moscow Levin had had many arguments with him of late.
莱文一转身，在路的拐角处，看到队伍过来了，他认出了戴着草帽的卡塔瓦索夫，他正像坦尼娅向他展示的那样，挥舞着双臂走着。卡塔瓦索夫非常喜欢讨论形而上学，他的观念来自于从未研究过形而上学的自然科学作家，列文最近在莫斯科与他进行了多次争论。

And one of these arguments, in which Katavasov had obviously considered that he came off victorious, was the first thing Levin thought of as he recognized him.
其中一个论点，卡塔瓦索夫显然认为他取得了胜利，这是列文认出他时想到的第一件事。

‘No, whatever I do, I won’t argue and give utterance to my ideas lightly,’ he thought.
“不，无论我做什么，我都不会轻易争论和表达我的想法，”他想。

Getting out of the trap and greeting his brother and Katavasov, Levin asked about his wife.
莱文走出陷阱，向他的兄弟和卡塔瓦索夫打招呼，询问了他妻子的情况。

‘She has taken Mitya to Kolok’ (a copse near the house). ‘She meant to have him out there because it’s so hot indoors,’ said Dolly. Levin had always advised his wife not to take the baby to the wood, thinking it unsafe, and he was not pleased to hear this.
“她带米蒂亚去了科洛克（Kolok）（房子附近的一片树林）。 “她想让他出去，因为室内太热了，”多莉说。莱文一直建议他的妻子不要带孩子去树林里，认为这不安全，听到这个他很不高兴。

‘She rushes about from place to place with him,’ said the prince, smiling. ‘I advised her to try putting him in the ice cellar.’
“她和他一起从一个地方奔波到另一个地方，”王子微笑着说道。 “我建议她尝试把他放进冰窖里。”

‘She meant to come to the bee house. She thought you would be there. We are going there,’ said Dolly.
‘她本来是想来蜂屋的。她以为你会在那儿。我们要去那里，”多莉说。

‘Well, and what are you doing?’ said Sergey Ivanovitch, falling back from the rest and walking beside him.
“那么，你在做什么呢？”谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇说，从休息中退了一步，走在他身边。

‘Oh, nothing special. Busy as usual with the land,’ answered Levin. ‘Well, and what about you? Come for long? We have been expecting you for such a long time.’
‘哦，没什么特别的。像往常一样忙于土地。”莱文回答道。 ‘那么，你呢？来久了？我们等你很久了。”

‘Only for a fortnight. I’ve a great deal to do in Moscow.’
“只有两周。”我在莫斯科有很多事情要做。”

At these words the brothers’ eyes met, and Levin, in spite of the desire he always had, stronger than ever just now, to be on affectionate and still more open terms with his brother, felt an awkwardness in looking at him. He dropped his eyes and did not know what to say.
听到这些话，兄弟俩的目光相遇了，尽管莱文一直渴望与他的兄弟保持亲密和更加开放的关系，而且现在比以往任何时候都更强烈，但看着他却感到一种尴尬。他垂下眼睛，不知道该说什么。

Casting over the subjects of conversation that would be pleasant to Sergey Ivanovitch, and would keep him off the subject of the Servian war and the Slavonic question, at which he had hinted by the allusion to what he had to do in Moscow, Levin began to talk of Sergey Ivanovitch’s book.
列文选择了谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇喜欢的谈话主题，并让他远离塞尔维亚战争和斯拉夫问题的话题，他曾暗示他在莫斯科要做的事情，列文开始说：谈论谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇的书。

‘Well, have there been reviews of your book?’ he asked.
“嗯，你的书有评论吗？”他问道。

Sergey Ivanovitch smiled at the intentional character of the question.
谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇对这个问题的故意性质笑了。

‘No one is interested in that now, and I less than anyone,’ he said. ‘Just look, Darya Alexandrovna, we shall have a shower,’ he added, pointing with a sunshade at the white rain clouds that showed above the aspen tree-tops.
“现在没有人对此感兴趣，我比任何人都不感兴趣，”他说。 “达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜，你看，我们要洗个澡了，”他补充道，一边用遮阳伞指着白杨树顶上方的白色雨云。

And these words were enough to re-establish again between the brothers that tone—hardly hostile, but chilly—which Levin had been so longing to avoid.
这些话足以在兄弟之间重新建立起莱文一直渴望避免的语气——几乎没有敌意，而是冷漠。

Levin went up to Katavasov.
列文走向卡塔瓦索夫。

‘It was jolly of you to make up your mind to come,’ he said to him.
“你决定来真是高兴，”他对他说。

‘I’ve been meaning to a long while. Now we shall have some discussion, we’ll see to that. Have you been reading Spencer?’
‘我已经想了很长一段时间了。现在我们将进行一些讨论，我们会注意这一点。你读过斯宾塞的书吗？

‘No, I’ve not finished reading him,’ said Levin. ‘But I don’t need him now.’
“不，我还没读完他的书，”莱文说。 “但我现在不需要他。”

‘How’s that? that’s interesting. Why so?’
'怎么样？那很有意思。为什么这样？'

‘I mean that I’m fully convinced that the solution of the problems that interest me I shall never find in him and his like. Now...’
“我的意思是，我完全相信，我永远无法在他和他的同类身上找到我感兴趣的问题的解决方案。现在...'

But Katavasov’s serene and good-humored expression suddenly struck him, and he felt such tenderness for his own happy mood, which he was unmistakably disturbing by this conversation, that he remembered his resolution and stopped short.
但卡塔瓦索夫的平静和幽默的表情突然打动了他，他对自己的快乐心情感到如此温柔，这次谈话无疑使他感到不安，因此他想起了自己的决心并突然停了下来。

‘But we’ll talk later on,’ he added. ‘If we’re going to the bee house, it’s this way, along this little path,’ he said, addressing them all.
“但我们稍后再谈，”他补充道。 “如果我们要去蜂屋，就沿着这条小路，走这边，”他对大家说道。

Going along the narrow path to a little uncut meadow covered on one side with thick clumps of brilliant heart’s-ease among which stood up here and there tall, dark green tufts of hellebore, Levin settled his guests in the dense, cool shade of the young aspens on a bench and some stumps purposely put there for visitors to the bee house who might be afraid of the bees, and he went off himself to the hut to get bread, cucumbers, and fresh honey, to regale them with.
沿着狭窄的小路，来到一片未开垦的小草地，草地的一侧长满了茂密的郁郁葱葱的灌木丛，其中到处矗立着高大的深绿色的藜芦丛，莱文让他的客人们坐在浓密凉爽的年轻树荫下。长凳上放着白杨，还有一些树桩，是特意放在那里的，是为了那些可能害怕蜜蜂的来蜂屋的游客，他自己去小屋拿面包、黄瓜和新鲜的蜂蜜来招待他们。

Trying to make his movements as deliberate as possible, and listening to the bees that buzzed more and more frequently past him, he walked along the little path to the hut. In the very entry one bee hummed angrily, caught in his beard, but he carefully extricated it. Going into the shady outer room, he took down from the wall his veil, that hung on a peg, and putting it on, and thrusting his hands into his pockets, he went into the fenced-in bee-garden, where there stood in the midst of a closely mown space in regular rows, fastened with bast on posts, all the hives he knew so well, the old stocks, each with its own history, and along the fences the younger swarms hived that year. In front of the openings of the hives, it made his eyes giddy to watch the bees and drones whirling round and round about the same spot, while among them the working bees flew in and out with spoils or in search of them, always in the same direction into the wood to the flowering lime trees and back to the hives.
他努力让自己的动作尽可能从容，一边听着越来越频繁地从他身边飞过的蜜蜂的嗡嗡声，他沿着小路朝小屋走去。就在入口处，一只蜜蜂被他的胡须夹住，愤怒地嗡嗡作响，但他小心翼翼地把它救了出来。他走进阴凉的外屋，从墙上取下挂在钉子上的面纱，戴上，双手插进口袋，走进了用栅栏围起来的蜂园，那里站着在一片整齐排列、用韧皮固定在柱子上的、修剪整齐的空间中央，所有的蜂巢都是他熟悉的，老蜂群，每个都有自己的历史，沿着栅栏，那年年轻的蜂群蜂拥而至。在蜂箱的开口前，他眼花缭乱地看着蜜蜂和雄蜂在同一个地方转来转去，而其中的工蜂则带着战利品飞进飞出，或寻找它们，总是在以相同的方向进入树林，到达开花的椴树，然后返回蜂巢。

His ears were filled with the incessant hum in various notes, now the busy hum of the working bee flying quickly off, then the blaring of the lazy drone, and the excited buzz of the bees on guard protecting their property from the enemy and preparing to sting. On the farther side of the fence the old bee-keeper was shaving a hoop for a tub, and he did not see Levin. Levin stood still in the midst of the beehives and did not call him.
他的耳朵里充满了各种音符不断的嗡嗡声，时而是快速飞走的工作蜜蜂忙碌的嗡嗡声，然后是懒惰的雄蜂的轰鸣声，以及守卫自己的财产免受敌人侵害并准备采取行动的蜜蜂兴奋的嗡嗡声。刺。在栅栏的另一边，老养蜂人正在为浴缸修剪圆环，他没有看到莱文。莱文静静地站在蜂箱中央，没有叫他。

He was glad of a chance to be alone to recover from the influence of ordinary actual life, which had already depressed his happy mood. He thought that he had already had time to lose his temper with Ivan, to show coolness to his brother, and to talk flippantly with Katavasov.
他很高兴有机会独处，从平淡的现实生活的影响中恢复过来，这已经压低了他愉快的心情。他以为自己已经有时间向伊万发脾气、向弟弟表现冷静、向卡塔瓦索夫轻率地说话了。

‘Can it have been only a momentary mood, and will it pass and leave no trace?’ he thought. But the same instant, going back to his mood, he felt with delight that something new and important had happened to him. Real life had only for a time overcast the spiritual peace he had found, but it was still untouched within him.
“难道这只是一时的情绪，会不会过去而不留下任何痕迹？”他想。但就在同一瞬间，他回到自己的情绪中，高兴地感觉到一些新的、重要的事情发生在他身上。现实生活只是暂时笼罩了他所找到的精神平静，但他内心的平静仍然没有受到影响。

Just as the bees, whirling round him, now menacing him and distracting his attention, prevented him from enjoying complete physical peace, forced him to restrain his movements to avoid them, so had the petty cares that had swarmed about him from the moment he got into the trap restricted his spiritual freedom; but that lasted only so long as he was among them. Just as his bodily strength was still unaffected, in spite of the bees, so too was the spiritual strength that he had just become aware of.
正如蜜蜂在他周围盘旋，现在威胁着他，分散了他的注意力，使他无法享受完全的身体平静，迫使他限制自己的动作来躲避它们，同样，从他得到帮助的那一刻起，那些琐碎的忧虑就涌向了他。陷入了限制他精神自由的陷阱；但这种情况只持续到他在他们中间的时候。就像他的肉身力量在蜜蜂的袭击下依然没有受到影响一样，他刚刚察觉到的精神力量也同样受到了影响。

Chapter 15
第15章

‘Do you know, Kostya, with whom Sergey Ivanovitch traveled on his way here?’ said Dolly, doling out cucumbers and honey to the children; ‘with Vronsky! He’s going to Servia.’
“克斯特亚，你知道谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇和谁一起来这里吗？”多莉边说边给孩子们分发黄瓜和蜂蜜。 ‘和渥伦斯基一起！他要去塞尔维亚。

‘And not alone; he’s taking a squadron out with him at his own expense,’ said Katavasov.
‘而且并不孤单；卡塔瓦索夫说：“他自费带一个中队出去。”

‘That’s the right thing for him,’ said Levin. ‘Are volunteers still going out then?’ he added, glancing at Sergey Ivanovitch.
“这对他来说是正确的，”莱文说。 “那么志愿者们还出去吗？”他补充道，看了一眼谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇。

Sergey Ivanovitch did not answer. He was carefully with a blunt knife getting a live bee covered with sticky honey out of a cup full of white honeycomb.
谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇没有回答。他小心翼翼地用一把钝刀从装满白色蜂窝的杯子里取出一只沾满粘稠蜂蜜的活蜂。

‘I should think so! You should have seen what was going on at the station yesterday!’ said Katavasov, biting with a juicy sound into a cucumber.
‘我应该这么想吧！你应该看看昨天车站里发生了什么！”卡塔瓦索夫一边说，一边咬着一根黄瓜，发出多汁的声音。

‘Well, what is one to make of it? For mercy’s sake, do explain to me, Sergey Ivanovitch, where are all those volunteers going, whom are they fighting with?’ asked the old prince, unmistakably taking up a conversation that had sprung up in Levin’s absence.
‘那么，我们可以用它来做什么呢？看在怜悯的份上，请向我解释一下，谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇，那些志愿者都去哪儿了，他们在和谁作战？”老公爵问道，毫无疑问地接起了莱文不在时突然出现的谈话。

‘With the Turks,’ Sergey Ivanovitch answered, smiling serenely, as he extricated the bee, dark with honey and helplessly kicking, and put it with the knife on a stout aspen leaf.
“和土耳其人一起。”谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇平静地微笑着回答，同时把那只沾满蜂蜜、无助地踢着的蜜蜂救了出来，用刀把它放在了一片粗壮的白杨树叶上。

‘But who has declared war on the Turks?—Ivan Ivanovitch Ragozov and Countess Lidia Ivanovna, assisted by Madame Stahl?’
“但是是谁向土耳其人宣战呢？——伊万·伊万诺维奇·拉戈佐夫和莉迪亚·伊万诺夫娜伯爵夫人，在斯塔尔夫人的协助下？”

‘No one has declared war, but people sympathize with their neighbors’ sufferings and are eager to help them,’ said Sergey Ivanovitch.
谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇说：“没有人宣战，但人们同情邻居的苦难，并渴望帮助他们。”

‘But the prince is not speaking of help,’ said Levin, coming to the assistance of his father-in-law, ‘but of war. The prince says that private persons cannot take part in war without the permission of the government.’
“但是，王子所说的不是帮助，”列文走到岳父身边，说道，“而是战争。”王子表示，未经政府许可，私人不得参与战争。”

‘Kostya, mind, that’s a bee! Really, they’ll sting us!’ said Dolly, waving away a wasp.
‘克斯特亚，注意，那是一只蜜蜂！真的，它们会蜇我们的！”多莉一边说，一边挥手赶走了一只黄蜂。

‘But that’s not a bee, it’s a wasp,’ said Levin.
“但这不是蜜蜂，而是黄蜂，”莱文说。

‘Well now, well, what’s your own theory?’ Katavasov said to Levin with a smile, distinctly challenging him to a discussion. ‘Why have not private persons the right to do so?’
“好吧，好吧，你自己的理论是什么？”卡塔瓦索夫微笑着对莱文说，显然是在挑战他进行讨论。 “为什么私人没有权利这样做？”

‘Oh, my theory’s this: war is on one side such a beastly, cruel, and awful thing, that no one man, not to speak of a Christian, can individually take upon himself the responsibility of beginning wars; that can only be done by a government, which is called upon to do this, and is driven inevitably into war. On the other hand, both political science and common sense teach us that in matters of state, and especially in the matter of war, private citizens must forego their personal individual will.’
“哦，我的理论是这样的：一方面，战争是一件野兽般的、残酷的、可怕的事情，没有一个人，更不用说基督徒，能够独自承担起发动战争的责任；这只能由政府来完成，政府被要求这样做，但不可避免地被迫卷入战争。另一方面，政治学和常识都告诉我们，在国家事务中，特别是在战争事务中，公民必须放弃个人的个人意志。

Sergey Ivanovitch and Katavasov had their replies ready, and both began speaking at the same time.
谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇和卡塔瓦索夫已经准备好了答复，两人同时开始发言。

‘But the point is, my dear fellow, that there may be cases when the government does not carry out the will of the citizens and then the public asserts its will,’ said Katavasov.
卡塔瓦索夫说：“但亲爱的朋友，重点是，在某些情况下，政府可能不执行公民的意愿，然后公众却坚持其意愿。”

But evidently Sergey Ivanovitch did not approve of this answer. His brows contracted at Katavasov’s words and he said something else.
但显然谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇并不赞同这个答案。卡塔瓦索夫的话让他皱起了眉头，又说了些什么。

‘You don’t put the matter in its true light. There is no question here of a declaration of war, but simply the expression of a human Christian feeling. Our brothers, one with us in religion and in race, are being massacred. Even supposing they were not our brothers nor fellow-Christians, but simply children, women, old people, feeling is aroused and Russians go eagerly to help in stopping these atrocities. Fancy, if you were going along the street and saw drunken men beating a woman or a child—I imagine you would not stop to inquire whether war had been declared on the men, but would throw yourself on them, and protect the victim.’
‘你没有把事情的真相看清楚。这里不存在宣战的问题，而只是人类基督教感情的表达。我们的兄弟，在宗教和种族上与我们同为一，正在遭到屠杀。即使假设他们不是我们的兄弟或基督徒，而只是儿童、妇女、老人，俄罗斯人也会热切地帮助制止这些暴行。想想看，如果你在街上看到醉酒的男人殴打女人或孩子，我想你不会停下来询问是否对这些男人宣战，而是会扑向他们，保护受害者。

‘But I should not kill them,’ said Levin.
“但我不应该杀他们，”莱文说。

‘Yes, you would kill them.’
“是的，你会杀了他们。”

‘I don’t know. If I saw that, I might give way to my impulse of the moment, but I can’t say beforehand. And such a momentary impulse there is not, and there cannot be, in the case of the oppression of the Slavonic peoples.’
'我不知道。如果我看到了，我可能会屈服于一时的冲动，但我不能事先说。在斯拉夫人民受压迫的情况下，不存在也不可能存在这种短暂的冲动。

‘Possibly for you there is not; but for others there is,’ said Sergey Ivanovitch, frowning with displeasure. ‘There are traditions still extant among the people of Slavs of the true faith suffering under the yoke of the ‘unclean sons of Hagar.’ The people have heard of the sufferings of their brethren and have spoken.’
“对你来说可能没有； “但对其他人来说却是这样。”谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇不满地皱着眉头说道。 “在真正信仰的斯拉夫人民中，仍然存在着在‘夏甲不洁之子’的枷锁下受苦受难的传统。人民听说了他们的弟兄所受的苦难，并发表了讲话。”

‘Perhaps so,’ said Levin evasively; ‘but I don’t see it. I’m one of the people myself, and I don’t feel it.’
“也许是这样，”莱文闪烁其词地说。 '但我没有看到。我自己也是其中一员，但我没有感觉到。

‘Here am I too,’ said the old prince. ‘I’ve been staying abroad and reading the papers, and I must own, up to the time of the Bulgarian atrocities, I couldn’t make out why it was all the Russians were all of a sudden so fond of their Slavonic brethren, while I didn’t feel the slightest affection for them. I was very much upset, thought I was a monster, or that it was the influence of Carlsbad on me. But since I have been here, my mind’s been set at rest. I see that there are people besides me who’re only interested in Russia, and not in their Slavonic brethren. Here’s Konstantin too.’
“我也在这里。”老王子说道。 “我一直呆在国外读报纸，我必须承认，直到保加利亚暴行发生之前，我无法理解为什么所有的俄罗斯人突然如此喜欢他们的斯拉夫兄弟，而我对他们却没有丝毫的感情。我非常沮丧，认为我是一个怪物，或者认为这是卡尔斯巴德对我的影响。但自从我来到这里，我的心就平静了。我发现除了我之外还有人只对俄罗斯感兴趣，而不是他们的斯拉夫同胞。康斯坦丁也在这儿。

‘Personal opinions mean nothing in such a case,’ said Sergey Ivanovitch; ‘it’s not a matter of personal opinions when all Russia—the whole people—has expressed its will.’
“在这种情况下，个人意见毫无意义，”谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇说。 “当整个俄罗斯——全体人民——表达了自己的意愿时，这不是个人意见的问题。”

‘But excuse me, I don’t see that. The people don’t know anything about it, if you come to that,’ said the old prince.
“但是请原谅，我不这么认为。老王子说：“如果你真的这么做的话，人们对此一无所知。”

‘Oh, papa!...how can you say that? And last Sunday in church?’ said Dolly, listening to the conversation. ‘Please give me a cloth,’ she said to the old man, who was looking at the children with a smile. ‘Why, it’s not possible that all...’
‘哦，爸爸！……你怎么能这么说呢？上周日在教堂吗？”多莉听着谈话说道。 “请给我一块布，”她对老人说，老人微笑着看着孩子们。 “为什么，不可能全部……”

‘But what was it in church on Sunday? The priest had been told to read that. He read it. They didn’t understand a word of it. Then they were told that there was to be a collection for a pious object in church; well, they pulled out their halfpence and gave them, but what for they couldn’t say.’
“但是周日教堂里发生了什么？牧师被告知要读这篇文章。他读了它。他们一个字也听不懂。然后他们被告知，教堂里要收藏一件虔诚的物品；好吧，他们拿出半便士给了他们，但他们说不上来是为了什么。

‘The people cannot help knowing; the sense of their own destinies is always in the people, and at such moments as the present that sense finds utterance,’ said Sergey Ivanovitch with conviction, glancing at the old bee-keeper.
‘人民不能不知道； “人们总是对自己的命运有感觉，而在当前这样的时刻，这种感觉就会得到表达。”谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇看了一眼老养蜂人，坚定地说。

The handsome old man, with black grizzled beard and thick silvery hair, stood motionless, holding a cup of honey, looking down from the height of his tall figure with friendly serenity at the gentlefolk, obviously understanding nothing of their conversation and not caring to understand it.
黑须花白、银发浓密的英俊老者，端着一杯蜂蜜，一动不动地站着，高大的身躯居高临下，友善而平静地看着这群绅士，显然对他们的谈话一无所知，也不在乎去理解。它。

‘That’s so, no doubt,’ he said, with a significant shake of his head at Sergey Ivanovitch’s words.
“毫无疑问，确实如此，”他说，听到谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇的话，他摇了摇头。

‘Here, then, ask him. He knows nothing about it and thinks nothing,’ said Levin. ‘Have you heard about the war, Mihalitch?’ he said, turning to him. ‘What they read in the church? What do you think about it? Ought we to fight for the Christians?’
‘那么，就问他吧。他对此一无所知，也没有思考，”莱文说。 “米哈利奇，你听说过战争吗？”他转向他说道。 ‘他们在教堂读什么？你怎么看待这件事？我们应该为基督徒而战吗？

‘What should we think? Alexander Nikolaevitch our Emperor has thought for us; he thinks for us indeed in all things. It’s clearer for him to see. Shall I bring a bit more bread? Give the little lad some more?’ he said addressing Darya Alexandrovna and pointing to Grisha, who had finished his crust.
‘我们应该怎么想？我们的皇帝亚历山大·尼古拉耶维奇为我们着想；他确实凡事为我们着想。他看得更清楚。我要不要再带点面包来？再给这个小伙子一些吗？”他对达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜说道，并指着已经吃完面包皮的格里沙。

‘I don’t need to ask,’ said Sergey Ivanovitch, ‘we have seen and are seeing hundreds and hundreds of people who give up everything to serve a just cause, come from every part of Russia, and directly and clearly express their thought and aim. They bring their halfpence or go themselves and say directly what for. What does it mean?’
“我不需要问，”谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇说，“我们已经看到并且正在看到成百上千的人为了正义事业放弃一切，他们来自俄罗斯各地，直接而明确地表达他们的想法和目标。他们会带上半便士，或者自己去直接说明用途。这是什么意思？'

‘It means, to my thinking,’ said Levin, who was beginning to get warm, ‘that among eighty millions of people there can always be found not hundreds, as now, but tens of thousands of people who have lost caste, ne’er-do-wells, who are always ready to go anywhere—to Pogatchev’s bands, to Khiva, to Serbia...’
“在我看来，这意味着，”莱文开始变得热情起来，“在八千万人中，总能发现不是像现在这样的数百人，而是数以万计的人失去了种姓，ne” er-do-wells，他们总是准备好去任何地方——波加切夫的乐队、希瓦、塞尔维亚……”

‘I tell you that it’s not a case of hundreds or of ne’er-do-wells, but the best representatives of the people!’ said Sergey Ivanovitch, with as much irritation as if he were defending the last penny of his fortune. ‘And what of the subscriptions? In this case it is a whole people directly expressing their will.’
“我告诉你，这不是数百人或游手好闲的人的问题，而是人民最好的代表！”谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇说道，语气如此恼怒，仿佛他正在捍卫自己财产的最后一分钱。 ‘那么订阅呢？在这种情况下，这是全体人民直接表达自己的意愿。”

‘That word ‘people’ is so vague,’ said Levin. ‘Parish clerks, teachers, and one in a thousand of the peasants, maybe, know what it’s all about. The rest of the eighty millions, like Mihalitch, far from expressing their will, haven’t the faintest idea what there is for them to express their will about. What right have we to say that this is the people’s will?’
“‘人民’这个词太模糊了，”莱文说。 “教区职员、教师，也许还有千分之一的农民，都知道这是什么意思。其余的八千万人，像米哈利奇一样，根本没有表达自己的意愿，根本不知道自己要表达自己的意愿在什么方面。我们有什么权利说这是人民的意志？

Chapter 16
第16章

Sergey Ivanovitch, being practiced in argument, did not reply, but at once turned the conversation to another aspect of the subject.
谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇正在练习辩论，没有回答，而是立刻把话题转到了另一个方面。

‘Oh, if you want to learn the spirit of the people by arithmetical computation, of course it’s very difficult to arrive at it. And voting has not been introduced among us and cannot be introduced, for it does not express the will of the people; but there are other ways of reaching that. It is felt in the air, it is felt by the heart. I won’t speak of those deep currents which are astir in the still ocean of the people, and which are evident to every unprejudiced man; let us look at society in the narrow sense. All the most diverse sections of the educated public, hostile before, are merged in one. Every division is at an end, all the public organs say the same thing over and over again, all feel the mighty torrent that has overtaken them and is carrying them in one direction.’
‘哦，如果你想通过算术计算来了解人们的精神，当然是很难达到的。我们中间还没有实行投票，也不可能实行，因为它不表达人民的意愿；但还有其他方法可以实现这一目标。它是在空气中感受到的，是由心感受到的。我不会谈论那些在平静的人民海洋中激起的深流，这对每个不带偏见的人来说都是显而易见的。让我们从狭义的角度来看待社会。所有受过教育的公众中最多样化的部分，以前充满敌意，现在都合并为一。每一次分裂都结束了，所有的公共机关都一遍又一遍地说着同样的话，所有人都感觉到一股巨大的洪流已经淹没了他们，正将他们带向一个方向。

‘Yes, all the newspapers do say the same thing,’ said the prince. ‘That’s true. But so it is the same thing that all the frogs croak before a storm. One can hear nothing for them.’
“是的，所有的报纸都说同样的事情，”王子说。 '这是真的。但暴风雨前所有的青蛙都在呱呱叫，这也是同样的事情。人们听不到他们的声音。

‘Frogs or no frogs, I’m not the editor of a paper and I don’t want to defend them; but I am speaking of the unanimity in the intellectual world,’ said Sergey Ivanovitch, addressing his brother. Levin would have answered, but the old prince interrupted him.
“无论有没有青蛙，我都不是报纸的编辑，我也不想为他们辩护； “但我指的是知识界的一致意见。”谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇对他的兄弟说道。莱文本想回答，但老王子打断了他。

‘Well, about that unanimity, that’s another thing, one may say,’ said the prince. ‘There’s my son-in-law, Stepan Arkadyevitch, you know him. He’s got a place now on the committee of a commission and something or other, I don’t remember. Only there’s nothing to do in it—why, Dolly, it’s no secret!—and a salary of eight thousand. You try asking him whether his post is of use, he’ll prove to you that it’s most necessary. And he’s a truthful man too, but there’s no refusing to believe in the utility of eight thousand roubles.’
“好吧，关于一致意见，人们可能会说这是另一回事，”王子说。 “这是我的女婿，斯捷潘·阿尔卡季奇，你认识他。他现在在一个委员会的委员会中占有一席之地，我不记得了。只是没什么可做的——为什么，多莉，这不是什么秘密！——而且工资是八千。你试着问他他的帖子是否有用，他会向你证明这是最有必要的。他也是个诚实的人，但没人会拒绝相信八千卢布的用处。

‘Yes, he asked me to give a message to Darya Alexandrovna about the post,’ said Sergey Ivanovitch reluctantly, feeling the prince’s remark to be ill-timed.
“是的，他让我向达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜转达关于这个职位的消息，”谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇不情愿地说，他觉得王子的话不合时宜。

‘So it is with the unanimity of the press. That’s been explained to me: as soon as there’s war their incomes are doubled. How can they help believing in the destinies of the people and the Slavonic races...and all that?’
“媒体的一致意见也是如此。有人向我解释过：一旦发生战争，他们的收入就会翻倍。他们怎么能不相信人民和斯拉夫种族的命运……以及所有这些呢？

‘I don’t care for many of the papers, but that’s unjust,’ said Sergey Ivanovitch.
“我不关心很多报纸，但这是不公平的，”谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇说。

‘I would only make one condition,’ pursued the old prince. ‘Alphonse Karr said a capital thing before the war with Prussia: ‘You consider war to be inevitable? Very good. Let everyone who advocates war be enrolled in a special regiment of advance-guards, for the front of every storm, of every attack, to lead them all!’’
“我只提一个条件。”老王子继续说道。 “阿尔方斯·卡尔在与普鲁士开战前说了一句重要的话：‘你认为战争是不可避免的吗？非常好。让每一个主张战争的人都加入一支特殊的先遣团，在每一次风暴、每一次进攻的前线，领导他们！”

‘A nice lot the editors would make!’ said Katavasov, with a loud roar, as he pictured the editors he knew in this picked legion.
“编辑们会赚很多钱！”卡塔瓦索夫一边大声吼叫一边想象着他在这支精挑细选的军团中认识的编辑们。

‘But they’d run,’ said Dolly, ‘they’d only be in the way.’
“但他们会逃跑，”多莉说，“他们只会碍事。”

‘Oh, if they ran away, then we’d have grape-shot or Cossacks with whips behind them,’ said the prince.
“哦，如果他们逃跑了，那么我们身后就会有霰弹枪或拿着鞭子的哥萨克，”王子说。

‘But that’s a joke, and a poor one too, if you’ll excuse my saying so, prince,’ said Sergey Ivanovitch.
“不过，这只是个玩笑，而且是一个糟糕的玩笑，请原谅我这么说，王子。”谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇说。

‘I don’t see that it was a joke, that...’ Levin was beginning, but Sergey Ivanovitch interrupted him.
“我不认为这是一个笑话，那……”列文正要开口，但谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇打断了他。

‘Every member of society is called upon to do his own special work,’ said he. ‘And men of thought are doing their work when they express public opinion. And the single-hearted and full expression of public opinion is the service of the press and a phenomenon to rejoice us at the same time. Twenty years ago we should have been silent, but now we have heard the voice of the Russian people, which is ready to rise as one man and ready to sacrifice itself for its oppressed brethren; that is a great step and a proof of strength.’
他说：“社会的每个成员都被要求做好自己的特殊工作。” “有思想的人在表达公众意见时就是在做他们的工作。而一心一意、充分表达民意，既是新闻界的服务，也是值得我们庆幸的现象。二十年前我们应该保持沉默，但现在我们听到了俄罗斯人民的声音，俄罗斯人民准备团结起来，准备为受压迫的兄弟牺牲自己；这是伟大的一步，也是力量的证明。”

‘But it’s not only making a sacrifice, but killing Turks,’ said Levin timidly. ‘The people make sacrifices and are ready to make sacrifices for their soul, but not for murder,’ he added, instinctively connecting the conversation with the ideas that had been absorbing his mind.
“但这不仅是做出牺牲，而且是杀死土耳其人。”莱文胆怯地说。 “人们做出牺牲，并准备好为他们的灵魂做出牺牲，但不是为了谋杀，”他补充道，本能地将谈话与他一直在思考的想法联系起来。

‘For their soul? That’s a most puzzling expression for a natural science man, do you understand? What sort of thing is the soul?’ said Katavasov, smiling.
‘为了他们的灵魂？这对一个自然科学家来说是最令人费解的表达方式，你明白吗？灵魂是什么样的东西？”卡塔瓦索夫微笑着说道。

‘Oh, you know!’
“哦，你知道！”

‘No, by God, I haven’t the faintest idea!’ said Katavasov with a loud roar of laughter.
“不，上帝作证，我一点也不知道！”卡塔瓦索夫大声笑道。

‘‘I bring not peace, but a sword,’ says Christ,’ Sergey Ivanovitch rejoined for his part, quoting as simply as though it were the easiest thing to understand the very passage that had always puzzled Levin most.
“基督说，我带来的不是和平，而是一把剑。”谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇反驳道，他的引述非常简单，仿佛这是最容易理解那段一直让列文最困惑的段落。

‘That’s so, no doubt,’ the old man repeated again. He was standing near them and responded to a chance glance turned in his direction.
“确实如此，毫无疑问。”老人又重复了一遍。他站在他们附近，对偶然转向他的方向的目光做出了回应。

‘Ah, my dear fellow, you’re defeated, utterly defeated!’ cried Katavasov good-humoredly.
“啊，我亲爱的朋友，你失败了，彻底失败了！”卡塔瓦索夫幽默地喊道。

Levin reddened with vexation, not at being defeated, but at having failed to control himself and being drawn into argument.
莱文气得满脸通红，不是因为失败，而是因为自己没能控制住自己，卷入了争论。

‘No, I can’t argue with them,’ he thought; ‘they wear impenetrable armor, while I’m naked.’
“不，我不能和他们争论，”他想。 “他们穿着坚不可摧的盔甲，而我却赤身裸体。”

He saw that it was impossible to convince his brother and Katavasov, and he saw even less possibility of himself agreeing with them. What they advocated was the very pride of intellect that had almost been his ruin. He could not admit that some dozens of men, among them his brother, had the right, on the ground of what they were told by some hundreds of glib volunteers swarming to the capital, to say that they and the newspapers were expressing the will and feeling of the people, and a feeling which was expressed in vengeance and murder. He could not admit this, because he neither saw the expression of such feelings in the people among whom he was living, nor found them in himself (and he could not but consider himself one of the persons making up the Russian people), and most of all because he, like the people, did not know and could not know what is for the general good, though he knew beyond a doubt that this general good could be attained only by the strict observance of that law of right and wrong which has been revealed to every man, and therefore he could not wish for war or advocate war for any general objects whatever. He said as Mihalitch did and the people, who had expressed their feeling in the traditional invitations of the Varyagi: ‘Be princes and rule over us. Gladly we promise complete submission. All the labor, all humiliations, all sacrifices we take upon ourselves; but we will not judge and decide.’ And now, according to Sergey Ivanovitch’s account, the people had foregone this privilege they had bought at such a costly price.
他发现说服他的兄弟和卡塔瓦索夫是不可能的，他认为自己同意他们的可能性更小。他们所提倡的是对知识的骄傲，而这几乎毁掉了他的智慧。他不能承认，包括他兄弟在内的几十个人，有权利根据数百名蜂拥而至首都的油嘴滑舌的志愿者告诉他们的情况，说他们和报纸正在表达他们的意愿和意愿。人民的感情，这种感情以复仇和谋杀的形式表达出来。他不能承认这一点，因为他既没有在他所生活的人民身上看到这种感情的表达，也没有在他自己身上发现这种感情（他不得不认为自己是构成俄罗斯人民的人之一），而且大多数人都认为自己是俄罗斯人民的组成部分。这一切都是因为他和人民一样，不知道也不可能知道什么是为了公共利益，尽管他毫无疑问地知道，这种公共利益只有通过严格遵守是非法则才能实现。战争已经向每个人揭示，因此他不可能为了任何一般目标而希望战争或主张战争。正如米哈利奇和人民在瓦里亚吉的传统邀请中表达的感受一样，他说：“成为王子并统治我们。”很高兴我们承诺完整提交。所有的劳动、所有的屈辱、所有的牺牲都是我们自己承担的；但我们不会判断和决定。”现在，根据谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇的说法，人们已经放弃了他们以如此昂贵的价格购买的特权。

He wanted to say too that if public opinion were an infallible guide, then why were not revolutions and the commune as lawful as the movement in favor of the Slavonic peoples? But these were merely thoughts that could settle nothing. One thing could be seen beyond doubt—that was that at the actual moment the discussion was irritating Sergey Ivanovitch, and so it was wrong to continue it. And Levin ceased speaking and then called the attention of his guests to the fact that the storm clouds were gathering, and that they had better be going home before it rained.
他还想说，如果公众舆论是绝对正确的指南，那么为什么革命和公社不像有利于斯拉夫人民的运动那样合法呢？但这些只是想法，并不能解决任何问题。有一点是不容置疑的——那就是，此时此刻，这种讨论激怒了谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇，所以继续下去是错误的。莱文不再说话，然后提醒客人注意，暴风云正在聚集，他们最好在下雨之前回家。

Chapter 17
第17章

The old prince and Sergey Ivanovitch got into the trap and drove off; the rest of the party hastened homewards on foot.
老王子和谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇钻进了陷阱，开车走了。其余的人都步行赶回家。

But the storm-clouds, turning white and then black, moved down so quickly that they had to quicken their pace to get home before the rain. The foremost clouds, lowering and black as soot-laden smoke, rushed with extraordinary swiftness over the sky. They were still two hundred paces from home and a gust of wind had already blown up, and every second the downpour might be looked for.
但乌云先白后黑，移动得如此之快，他们不得不加快步伐，以便在下雨之前回家。最前面的云朵低垂下来，像充满煤灰的烟雾一样漆黑，以惊人的速度冲过天空。距离家还有两百步，一阵风已经刮起来，每一秒都可能下倾盆大雨。

The children ran ahead with frightened and gleeful shrieks. Darya Alexandrovna, struggling painfully with her skirts that clung round her legs, was not walking, but running, her eyes fixed on the children. The men of the party, holding their hats on, strode with long steps beside her. They were just at the steps when a big drop fell splashing on the edge of the iron guttering. The children and their elders after them ran into the shelter of the house, talking merrily.
孩子们一边惊恐一边高兴地尖叫着跑在前面。达里娅·亚历山德罗夫娜痛苦地挣扎着，裙子紧贴着腿，她不是在走，而是在跑，眼睛盯着孩子们。一行人都戴着帽子，大步走在她身边。他们刚走到台阶上，一大滴水落下来，溅落在铁制排水沟的边缘。孩子们和大人们跟在他们后面，跑进房子的避难所，愉快地交谈着。

‘Katerina Alexandrovna?’ Levin asked of Agafea Mihalovna, who met them with kerchiefs and rugs in the hall.
“卡捷琳娜·亚历山德罗夫娜？”列文问阿加菲娅·米哈伊洛芙娜，她在大厅里拿着头巾和地毯迎接了他们。

‘We thought she was with you,’ she said.
“我们以为她和你在一起，”她说。

‘And Mitya?’
“米佳呢？”

‘In the copse, he must be, and the nurse with him.’
“他一定在树林里，护士也和他在一起。”

Levin snatched up the rugs and ran towards the copse.
莱文抓起地毯，跑向树林。

In that brief interval of time the storm clouds had moved on, covering the sun so completely that it was dark as an eclipse. Stubbornly, as though insisting on its rights, the wind stopped Levin, and tearing the leaves and flowers off the lime trees and stripping the white birch branches into strange unseemly nakedness, it twisted everything on one side—acacias, flowers, burdocks, long grass, and tall tree-tops. The peasant girls working in the garden ran shrieking into shelter in the servants’ quarters. The streaming rain had already flung its white veil over all the distant forest and half the fields close by, and was rapidly swooping down upon the copse. The wet of the rain spurting up in tiny drops could be smelt in the air.
在那短暂的时间里，暴风云不断移动，完全遮住了太阳，天色漆黑如日食。风顽固地，仿佛坚持自己的权利，阻止了莱文，撕下了椴树上的叶子和花朵，把白桦树枝剥落成奇怪的、不合时宜的赤裸，它扭曲了一侧的一切——金合欢、花朵、牛蒡、长草和高大的树顶。在花园里干活的农家女们尖叫着跑进仆人宿舍的避难所。淅淅沥沥的雨已经给远处的森林和近处的一半田野蒙上了一层白色的面纱，并迅速地倾泻到了小树林上。空气中都能闻到雨滴的湿气，以细小的水滴喷出。

Holding his head bent down before him, and struggling with the wind that strove to tear the wraps away from him, Levin was moving up to the copse and had just caught sight of something white behind the oak tree, when there was a sudden flash, the whole earth seemed on fire, and the vault of heaven seemed crashing overhead. Opening his blinded eyes, Levin gazed through the thick veil of rain that separated him now from the copse, and to his horror the first thing he saw was the green crest of the familiar oak-tree in the middle of the copse uncannily changing its position. ‘Can it have been struck?’ Levin hardly had time to think when, moving more and more rapidly, the oak tree vanished behind the other trees, and he heard the crash of the great tree falling upon the others.
莱文低着头，与试图将包裹从他身上撕下来的风作斗争，莱文正朝树林走去，刚刚看到橡树后面有一个白色的东西，突然一道闪光，整个大地似乎着火了，天空的穹顶似乎在头顶上崩塌。莱文睁开失明的眼睛，透过厚厚的雨幕凝视着他，雨幕将他与树林隔开，令他惊恐的是，他首先看到的是树林中央那棵熟悉的橡树的绿色树冠，不可思议地改变了它的位置。 。 “它会被击中吗？”莱文几乎没有时间思考，那棵橡树移动得越来越快，消失在其他树后面，他听到这棵大树倒在其他树上的撞击声。

The flash of lightning, the crash of thunder, and the instantaneous chill that ran through him were all merged for Levin in one sense of terror.
电光闪过，雷霆轰鸣，还有瞬间席卷全身的寒意，都让莱文融入了一种恐怖的感觉。

‘My God! my God! not on them!’ he said.
'我的上帝！我的上帝！ “不是他们！”他说。

And though he thought at once how senseless was his prayer that they should not have been killed by the oak which had fallen now, he repeated it, knowing that he could do nothing better than utter this senseless prayer.
尽管他立刻想到他祈祷他们不应该被现在倒下的橡树杀死是多么毫无意义，但他又重复了一遍，因为他知道除了说出这个毫无意义的祈祷之外，他无能为力。

Running up to the place where they usually went, he did not find them there.
跑到他们常去的地方，却没有发现他们。

They were at the other end of the copse under an old lime-tree; they were calling him. Two figures in dark dresses (they had been light summer dresses when they started out) were standing bending over something. It was Kitty with the nurse. The rain was already ceasing, and it was beginning to get light when Levin reached them. The nurse was not wet on the lower part of her dress, but Kitty was drenched through, and her soaked clothes clung to her. Though the rain was over, they still stood in the same position in which they had been standing when the storm broke. Both stood bending over a perambulator with a green umbrella.
他们在树林的另一端，在一棵老椴树下。他们在呼唤他。两个穿着深色衣服的人影（刚开始时是浅色夏装）正弯着腰站在什么东西上。是凯蒂和护士在一起。当莱文到达他们身边时，雨已经停了，天也开始亮了。护士的衣服下半部分没有湿，但基蒂却湿透了，湿透的衣服贴在她身上。虽然雨已经停了，但他们仍然站在暴风雨来时的位置上。两人弯腰站在一辆撑着绿色雨伞的婴儿车前。

‘Alive? Unhurt? Thank God!’ he said, splashing with his soaked boots through the standing water and running up to them.
'活？没受伤吗？感谢上帝！”他一边说，一边用湿漉漉的靴子踏过积水，跑向他们。

Kitty’s rosy wet face was turned towards him, and she smiled timidly under her shapeless sopped hat.
基蒂红润的湿脸转向他，在湿漉漉的、形状不定的帽子下怯怯地微笑着。

‘Aren’t you ashamed of yourself? I can’t think how you can be so reckless!’ he said angrily to his wife.
‘你不为自己感到羞耻吗？我想不出你怎么可以如此鲁莽！”他愤怒地对妻子说道。

‘It wasn’t my fault, really. We were just meaning to go, when he made such a to-do that we had to change him. We were just...’ Kitty began defending herself.
“这不是我的错，真的。我们正想走，他却做了这么一件事情，我们不得不改变他。我们只是……”凯蒂开始为自己辩护。

Mitya was unharmed, dry, and still fast asleep.
米蒂亚没有受伤，身体干燥，还在熟睡中。

‘Well, thank God! I don’t know what I’m saying!’
‘好吧，感谢上帝！我不知道我在说什么！

They gathered up the baby’s wet belongings; the nurse picked up the baby and carried it. Levin walked beside his wife, and, penitent for having been angry, he squeezed her hand when the nurse was not looking.
他们收拾了婴儿湿漉漉的东西；护士抱起婴儿并抱着它。莱文走在妻子身边，为自己的愤怒而懊悔，他趁护士不注意时握紧了她的手。

Chapter 18
第18章

During the whole of that day, in the extremely different conversations in which he took part, only as it were with the top layer of his mind, in spite of the disappointment of not finding the change he expected in himself, Levin had been all the while joyfully conscious of the fulness of his heart.
那天一整天，在他参加的各种极其不同的谈话中，尽管莱文没有发现他所期望的改变而感到失望，但只是在他头脑的顶层进行的谈话中，他一直表现得很好。同时高兴地意识到他的内心充实。

After the rain it was too wet to go for a walk; besides, the storm clouds still hung about the horizon, and gathered here and there, black and thundery, on the rim of the sky. The whole party spent the rest of the day in the house.
雨后天气太湿，无法散步；此外，暴风云仍然悬在地平线上，在天空的边缘四处聚集，乌云密布，雷鸣般。当天剩下的时间，一行人都在屋子里度过。

No more discussions sprang up; on the contrary, after dinner every one was in the most amiable frame of mind.
没有更多的讨论发生；相反，晚饭后大家的心情都非常和蔼可亲。

At first Katavasov amused the ladies by his original jokes, which always pleased people on their first acquaintance with him. Then Sergey Ivanovitch induced him to tell them about the very interesting observations he had made on the habits and characteristics of common houseflies, and their life. Sergey Ivanovitch, too, was in good spirits, and at tea his brother drew him on to explain his views of the future of the Eastern question, and he spoke so simply and so well, that everyone listened eagerly.
起初，卡塔瓦索夫用他独创的笑话逗乐了女士们，这总是让初次认识他的人们感到高兴。然后谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇引导他告诉他们他对普通家蝇的习性、特征以及它们的生活所做的非常有趣的观察。谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇的心情也很好，喝茶的时候，他哥哥请他解释一下自己对东方问题未来的看法，他讲得那么简单，那么好，大家都听得津津有味。

Kitty was the only one who did not hear it all—she was summoned to give Mitya his bath.
凯蒂是唯一一个没有听到这一切的人——她被叫去给米蒂亚洗澡。

A few minutes after Kitty had left the room she sent for Levin to come to the nursery.
凯蒂离开房间几分钟后，她派人叫莱文来托儿所。

Leaving his tea, and regretfully interrupting the interesting conversation, and at the same time uneasily wondering why he had been sent for, as this only happened on important occasions, Levin went to the nursery.
放下茶水，遗憾地打断了这场有趣的谈话，同时又不安地想知道自己为什么被叫来，因为这种事只有在重要场合才会发生，莱文去了育婴室。

Although he had been much interested by Sergey Ivanovitch’s views of the new epoch in history that would be created by the emancipation of forty millions of men of Slavonic race acting with Russia, a conception quite new to him, and although he was disturbed by uneasy wonder at being sent for by Kitty, as soon as he came out of the drawing room and was alone, his mind reverted at once to the thoughts of the morning. And all the theories of the significance of the Slav element in the history of the world seemed to him so trivial compared with what was passing in his own soul, that he instantly forgot it all and dropped back into the same frame of mind that he had been in that morning.
尽管他对谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇关于历史新纪元的看法很感兴趣，这个新纪元将由与俄罗斯合作的四千万斯拉夫族人的解放而创造，但这对他来说是一个全新的概念，尽管他对不安的惊奇感到不安被基蒂叫来后，他一走出客厅，只剩下一个人，他的思绪立刻又回到了早上的事情上。在他看来，所有关于斯拉夫因素在世界历史上的重要性的理论与他自己灵魂中正在发生的事情相比都是那么微不足道，以至于他立即忘记了这一切，又回到了原来的心态。那天早上。

He did not, as he had done at other times, recall the whole train of thought—that he did not need. He fell back at once into the feeling which had guided him, which was connected with those thoughts, and he found that feeling in his soul even stronger and more definite than before. He did not, as he had had to do with previous attempts to find comforting arguments, need to revive a whole chain of thought to find the feeling. Now, on the contrary, the feeling of joy and peace was keener than ever, and thought could not keep pace with feeling.
他没有像其他时候那样回忆起整个思路——他不需要。他立刻又回到了引导他的感觉中，这种感觉与那些想法有关，他发现他灵魂中的感觉比以前更加强烈和明确。他不需要像以前试图寻找令人安慰的论据那样，需要重新启动整个思想链来找到这种感觉。现在，相反，喜悦与平安的感觉比以往任何时候都更加强烈，思想跟不上感觉的步伐。

He walked across the terrace and looked at two stars that had come out in the darkening sky, and suddenly he remembered. ‘Yes, looking at the sky, I thought that the dome that I see is not a deception, and then I thought something, I shirked facing something,’ he mused. ‘But whatever it was, there can be no disproving it! I have but to think, and all will come clear!’
他走过露台，看着昏暗的天空中出现的两颗星星，突然想起来了。 “是的，看着天空，我认为我看到的圆顶不是骗人的，然后我想到了什么，我逃避面对什么，”他若有所思地说。 “但无论是什么，都无法反驳！”我只要想一想，一切都会清楚的！

Just as he was going into the nursery he remembered what it was he had shirked facing. It was that if the chief proof of the Divinity was His revelation of what is right, how is it this revelation is confined to the Christian church alone? What relation to this revelation have the beliefs of the Buddhists, Mohammedans, who preached and did good too?
正当他要走进育婴室时，他想起了他所回避面对的是什么。如果神性的主要证据是他对正确事物的启示，那么这种启示为何仅限于基督教会呢？佛教徒、伊斯兰教徒也宣扬行善，他们的信仰与这一启示有什么关系呢？

It seemed to him that he had an answer to this question; but he had not time to formulate it to himself before he went into the nursery.
他觉得这个问题他已经有了答案。但在他走进育婴室之前，他没有时间自己想办法。

Kitty was standing with her sleeves tucked up over the baby in the bath. Hearing her husband’s footstep, she turned towards him, summoning him to her with her smile. With one hand she was supporting the fat baby that lay floating and sprawling on its back, while with the other she squeezed the sponge over him.
凯蒂站在浴缸里，袖子挽起，盖住婴儿。听到丈夫的脚步声，她转向他，微笑着把他召唤到自己身边。她用一只手支撑着仰面躺着、漂浮着的胖婴儿，另一只手则将海绵挤在他身上。

‘Come, look, look!’ she said, when her husband came up to her. ‘Agafea Mihalovna’s right. He knows us!’
“来，看，看！”当她丈夫走到她面前时，她说道。 “阿加菲娅·米哈伊洛芙娜说得对。他认识我们！

Mitya had on that day given unmistakable, incontestable signs of recognizing all his friends.
那天，米蒂亚明显地、无可争议地表示认出了他所有的朋友。

As soon as Levin approached the bath, the experiment was tried, and it was completely successful. The cook, sent for with this object, bent over the baby. He frowned and shook his head disapprovingly. Kitty bent down to him, he gave her a beaming smile, propped his little hands on the sponge and chirruped, making such a queer little contented sound with his lips, that Kitty and the nurse were not alone in their admiration. Levin, too, was surprised and delighted.
莱文一走近浴池就尝试了实验，结果完全成功了。厨师带着这个东西被叫来，弯下腰看着婴儿。他皱起眉头，不以为然地摇摇头。基蒂向他弯下腰，他给了她一个灿烂的微笑，小手撑在海绵上，叽叽喳喳地叫着，嘴唇发出一种奇怪的、满足的声音，让基蒂和护士感到钦佩的并不孤单。莱文也感到惊讶和高兴。

The baby was taken out of the bath, drenched with water, wrapped in towels, dried, and after a piercing scream, handed to his mother.
婴儿被从浴缸里抱出来，用水淋湿，用毛巾包裹起来，擦干，在一声撕心裂肺的尖叫后，交给了母亲。

‘Well, I am glad you are beginning to love him,’ said Kitty to her husband, when she had settled herself comfortably in her usual place, with the baby at her breast. ‘I am so glad! It had begun to distress me. You said you had no feeling for him.’
“好吧，我很高兴你开始爱他了，”基蒂对她的丈夫说，当她舒适地坐在平常的位置上，把婴儿抱在胸前时。 '我很高兴！这开始让我感到苦恼。你说你对他没有感觉。”

‘No; did I say that? I only said I was disappointed.’
'不;我说过吗？我只是说我很失望。

‘What! disappointed in him?’
'什么！对他失望吗？

‘Not disappointed in him, but in my own feeling; I had expected more. I had expected a rush of new delightful emotion to come as a surprise. And then instead of that—disgust, pity...’
‘不是对他失望，而是对我自己的感觉失望；我本来期待更多。我原以为会突然出现一股新的令人愉悦的情绪，令人惊讶。然后取而代之的是——厌恶、怜悯……”

She listened attentively, looking at him over the baby, while she put back on her slender fingers the rings she had taken off while giving Mitya his bath.
她专注地听着，越过婴儿看着他，同时把给米蒂亚洗澡时摘下的戒指戴回纤细的手指上。

‘And most of all, at there being far more apprehension and pity than pleasure. Today, after that fright during the storm, I understand how I love him.’
“最重要的是，忧虑和怜悯远多于快乐。今天，在经历了暴风雨期间的恐惧之后，我明白了我是多么爱他。

Kitty’s smile was radiant.
凯蒂的笑容灿烂。

‘Were you very much frightened?’ she said. ‘So was I too, but I feel it more now that it’s over. I’m going to look at the oak. How nice Katavasov is! And what a happy day we’ve had altogether. And you’re so nice with Sergey Ivanovitch, when you care to be.... Well, go back to them. It’s always so hot and steamy here after the bath.’
“你非常害怕吗？”她说。 “我也是，但现在一切都结束了，我的感受更加强烈。我要去看看橡树。卡塔瓦索夫多好啊！我们度过了多么快乐的一天啊。当你愿意的时候，你对谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇非常友善……好吧，回到他们身边吧。洗完澡后这里总是又热又热气腾腾。”

Chapter 19
第19章

Going out of the nursery and being again alone, Levin went back at once to the thought, in which there was something not clear.
走出育婴室，再次独自一人，莱文立刻又陷入了沉思，其中有一些不清楚的地方。

Instead of going into the drawing room, where he heard voices, he stopped on the terrace, and leaning his elbows on the parapet, he gazed up at the sky.
他没有走进客厅，听见有人说话，而是在露台上停下来，把胳膊肘靠在栏杆上，抬头望着天空。

It was quite dark now, and in the south, where he was looking, there were no clouds. The storm had drifted on to the opposite side of the sky, and there were flashes of lightning and distant thunder from that quarter. Levin listened to the monotonous drip from the lime trees in the garden, and looked at the triangle of stars he knew so well, and the Milky Way with its branches that ran through its midst. At each flash of lightning the Milky Way, and even the bright stars, vanished, but as soon as the lightning died away, they reappeared in their places as though some hand had flung them back with careful aim.
现在天已经黑了，他所望的南方，没有一丝云彩。暴风雨已经飘到了天空的另一边，那边传来闪电和远处的雷声。莱文听着花园里椴树单调的滴水声，看着他熟悉的三角形星星，还有银河系，银河系的分支从银河系中间穿过。每一道闪电，银河系，甚至明亮的星星都会消失，但一旦闪电消失，它们又重新出现在原来的位置，就好像有一只手小心翼翼地把它们扔了回来。

‘Well, what is it perplexes me?’ Levin said to himself, feeling beforehand that the solution of his difficulties was ready in his soul, though he did not know it yet. ‘Yes, the one unmistakable, incontestable manifestation of the Divinity is the law of right and wrong, which has come into the world by revelation, and which I feel in myself, and in the recognition of which—I don’t make myself, but whether I will or not—I am made one with other men in one body of believers, which is called the church. Well, but the Jews, the Mohammedans, the Confucians, the Buddhists—what of them?’ he put to himself the question he had feared to face. ‘Can these hundreds of millions of men be deprived of that highest blessing without which life has no meaning?’ He pondered a moment, but immediately corrected himself. ‘But what am I questioning?’ he said to himself. ‘I am questioning the relation to Divinity of all the different religions of all mankind. I am questioning the universal manifestation of God to all the world with all those misty blurs. What am I about? To me individually, to my heart has been revealed a knowledge beyond all doubt, and unattainable by reason, and here I am obstinately trying to express that knowledge in reason and words.
“那么，到底是什么让我困惑呢？”列文自言自语道，他预感解决困难的方法已经在他的灵魂中准备好了，尽管他还不知道。 “是的，神性的唯一明确无误、无可争议的表现就是正确与错误的法则，它通过启示来到这个世界，我在自己身上感受到它，并在认识到它时——我不让自己，但无论我是否愿意，我都与其他人合而为一，成为一个信徒团体，这个团体被称为教会。好吧，但是犹太人、伊斯兰教徒、儒家、佛教徒——他们又是什么呢？”他向自己提出了他一直害怕面对的问题。 “这亿万人民能被剥夺这种最高的祝福吗？没有这种祝福，生命就没有意义了？”他沉思了一会儿，但立即纠正了自己。 “但我在质疑什么呢？”他自言自语道。 “我质疑全人类所有不同宗教与神性的关系。我质疑上帝对全世界的普遍显现，带着那些模糊的模糊。我是关于什么的？对我个人来说，我的内心已经得到了一种毫无疑问的、理性无法获得的知识，而在这里，我固执地试图用理性和语言来表达这种知识。

‘Don’t I know that the stars don’t move?’ he asked himself, gazing at the bright planet which had shifted its position up to the topmost twig of the birch-tree. ‘But looking at the movements of the stars, I can’t picture to myself the rotation of the earth, and I’m right in saying that the stars move.
“难道我不知道星星是不动的吗？”他一边问自己，一边凝视着那颗明亮的行星，它的位置已经转移到了白桦树最顶端的树枝上。 “但是看着星星的运动，我无法想象地球的自转，而且我说星星在移动是对的。

‘And could the astronomers have understood and calculated anything, if they had taken into account all the complicated and varied motions of the earth? All the marvelous conclusions they have reached about the distances, weights, movements, and deflections of the heavenly bodies are only founded on the apparent motions of the heavenly bodies about a stationary earth, on that very motion I see before me now, which has been so for millions of men during long ages, and was and will be always alike, and can always be trusted. And just as the conclusions of the astronomers would have been vain and uncertain if not founded on observations of the seen heavens, in relation to a single meridian and a single horizon, so would my conclusions be vain and uncertain if not founded on that conception of right, which has been and will be always alike for all men, which has been revealed to me as a Christian, and which can always be trusted in my soul. The question of other religions and their relations to Divinity I have no right to decide, and no possibility of deciding.’
如果天文学家考虑到了地球所有复杂多变的运动，他们还能理解和计算出任何东西吗？他们得出的关于天体的距离、重量、运动和偏转的所有奇妙结论都只是建立在天体绕静止地球的视运动的基础上，即我现在所看到的运动之上，它已经被对于千百万人来说，在漫长的岁月里，过去和将来都是一样的，并且永远可以信赖。正如天文学家的结论如果不是建立在对与单一子午线和单一地平线相关的所见天空的观察的基础上的话，就会是徒劳和不确定的，同样，如果不是建立在这种概念的基础上，我的结论也会是徒劳和不确定的。正确的，这对于所有人来说都是一样的，并且将永远是一样的，它已经向我作为一个基督徒揭示了，并且在我的灵魂中永远可以信任。其他宗教的问题及其与神性的关系，我无权决定，也没有可能做出决定。

‘Oh, you haven’t gone in then?’ he heard Kitty’s voice all at once, as she came by the same way to the drawing-room.
“哦，那你还没有进去吗？”他突然听到基蒂的声音，她从原路来到客厅。

‘What is it? you’re not worried about anything?’ she said, looking intently at his face in the starlight.
'它是什么？你不担心任何事情吗？”她说，在星光下专注地看着他的脸。

But she could not have seen his face if a flash of lightning had not hidden the stars and revealed it. In that flash she saw his face distinctly, and seeing him calm and happy, she smiled at him.
但如果不是一道闪电遮住了星星并显露出来，她就看不到他的脸。在那一瞬间，她清楚地看到了他的脸，看到他平静而快乐，她对他微笑。

‘She understands,’ he thought; ‘she knows what I’m thinking about. Shall I tell her or not? Yes, I’ll tell her.’ But at the moment he was about to speak, she began speaking.
“她明白，”他想。 ‘她知道我在想什么。我该告诉她还是不告诉她？是的，我会告诉她的。”但就在他要说话的时候，她却开始说话了。

‘Kostya! do something for me,’ she said; ‘go into the corner room and see if they’ve made it all right for Sergey Ivanovitch. I can’t very well. See if they’ve put the new wash stand in it.’
‘克斯特亚！为我做点事，”她说； “到角落里的房间去看看他们是否为谢尔盖·伊万诺维奇做好了一切。”我不太好。看看他们是否已经把新的盥洗台放进去了。

‘Very well, I’ll go directly,’ said Levin, standing up and kissing her.
“很好，我直接过去。”莱文站起来吻了她。

‘No, I’d better not speak of it,’ he thought, when she had gone in before him. ‘It is a secret for me alone, of vital importance for me, and not to be put into words.
“不，我最好别说这件事，”当她先他走进去时，他想。 “这对我来说是一个秘密，对我来说至关重要，而且无法用言语表达。”

‘This new feeling has not changed me, has not made me happy and enlightened all of a sudden, as I had dreamed, just like the feeling for my child. There was no surprise in this either. Faith—or not faith—I don’t know what it is—but this feeling has come just as imperceptibly through suffering, and has taken firm root in my soul.
“这种新的感觉并没有改变我，没有像我梦想的那样让我突然快乐和开悟，就像对我孩子的感觉一样。这也不足为奇。信仰——或者不是信仰——我不知道它是什么——但这种感觉同样是在痛苦中不知不觉地产生的，并在我的灵魂中扎下了根。

‘I shall go on in the same way, losing my temper with Ivan the coachman, falling into angry discussions, expressing my opinions tactlessly; there will be still the same wall between the holy of holies of my soul and other people, even my wife; I shall still go on scolding her for my own terror, and being remorseful for it; I shall still be as unable to understand with my reason why I pray, and I shall still go on praying; but my life now, my whole life apart from anything that can happen to me, every minute of it is no more meaningless, as it was before, but it has the positive meaning of goodness, which I have the power to put into it.’
“我会继续这样下去，对车夫伊凡发脾气，愤怒地讨论，不圆滑地表达我的意见；在我灵魂的至圣所和其他人之间，甚至是我的妻子之间，仍然存在着同样的墙壁；我仍会继续因为我自己的恐惧而责备她，并为此感到悔恨。我仍然无法理解我为什么祈祷，但我仍然会继续祈祷；但我现在的生活，我的整个生活，除了可能发生在我身上的任何事情之外，它的每一分钟都不再像以前那样毫无意义，而是具有善良的积极意义，我有能力将其投入其中。 '