
Little Women
小女人

By Louisa May Alcott
路易莎·梅·奥尔科特

CHAPTER ONE
第一章

‘Christmas won’t be Christmas without any presents,’ grumbled Jo, lying on the rug.
“没有礼物的圣诞节就不是圣诞节了。”乔躺在地毯上抱怨道。

‘It’s so dreadful to be poor!’ sighed Meg, looking down at her old dress.
“贫穷真是太可怕了！”梅格低头看着自己的旧衣服，叹了口气。

‘I don’t think it’s fair for some girls to have plenty of pretty things, and other girls nothing at all,’ added little Amy, with an injured sniff.
“我觉得有些女孩拥有很多漂亮的东西，而另一些女孩却什么都没有，这是不公平的。”小艾米带着受伤的鼻子补充道。

‘We’ve got Father and Mother, and each other,’ said Beth contentedly from her corner.
“我们有爸爸和妈妈，还有彼此，”贝丝在她的角落里满意地说。

The four young faces on which the firelight shone brightened at the cheerful words, but darkened again as Jo said sadly, ‘We haven’t got Father, and shall not have him for a long time.’ She didn’t say ‘perhaps never,’ but each silently added it, thinking of Father far away, where the fighting was.
火光照耀下的四张年轻的脸庞因这些欢快的话语而变得明亮起来，但当乔悲伤地说：“我们没有父亲，并且很长一段时间内不会有他。”她没有说“也许永远不会”时，他们又变得阴沉起来。 ，”但每个人都默默地补充道，想着远方的父亲，那里正在打仗。

Nobody spoke for a minute; then Meg said in an altered tone, ‘You know the reason Mother proposed not having any presents this Christmas was because it is going to be a hard winter for everyone; and she thinks we ought not to spend money for pleasure, when our men are suffering so in the army. We can’t do much, but we can make our little sacrifices, and ought to do it gladly. But I am afraid I don’t.’ And Meg shook her head, as she thought regretfully of all the pretty things she wanted.
一时间没有人说话。然后梅格换了一种语气说：“你知道妈妈之所以提议今年圣诞节不送礼物，是因为这对每个人来说都将是一个艰难的冬天；她认为我们不应该为了享乐而花钱，因为我们的男人在军队里如此受苦。我们能做的不多，但我们可以做出小小的牺牲，而且应该高兴地这样做。但恐怕我不喜欢。”梅格摇了摇头，遗憾地想到她想要的所有漂亮东西。

‘But I don’t think the little we should spend would do any good. We’ve each got a dollar, and the army wouldn’t be much helped by our giving that. I agree not to expect anything from Mother or you, but I do want to buy UNDINE AND SINTRAM for myself. I’ve wanted it so long,’ said Jo, who was a bookworm.
“但我认为我们花的那点钱不会有任何好处。我们每人有一美元，而我们的捐献对军队并没有多大帮助。我同意不对妈妈或你抱有任何期望，但我确实想为自己购买 UNDINE 和 SINTRAM。 “我想要它很久了。”乔说，她是个书虫。

‘I planned to spend mine in new music,’ said Beth, with a little sigh, which no one heard but the hearth brush and kettle holder.
“我打算把我的时间花在新音乐上，”贝丝轻轻叹了口气，除了炉刷和水壶架之外没有人听到。

‘I shall get a nice box of Faber’s drawing pencils. I really need them,’ said Amy decidedly.
“我要买一盒漂亮的费伯绘图铅笔。我真的需要它们。”艾米斩钉截铁地说。

‘Mother didn’t say anything about our money, and she won’t wish us to give up everything. Let’s each buy what we want, and have a little fun. I’m sure we work hard enough to earn it,’ cried Jo, examining the heels of her shoes in a gentlemanly manner.
“妈妈没有说任何关于我们钱的事，她也不希望我们放弃一切。让我们每个人都买自己想要的东西，并享受一点乐趣。我确信我们努力工作才能赢得它，”乔喊道，以绅士的方式检查她的鞋跟。

‘I know I do—teaching those tiresome children nearly all day, when I’m longing to enjoy myself at home,’ began Meg, in the complaining tone again.
“我知道我是这么做的——几乎整天都在教那些烦人的孩子，而我却渴望在家里玩得开心，”梅格又用抱怨的语气开始说道。

‘You don’t have half such a hard time as I do,’ said Jo. ‘How would you like to be shut up for hours with a nervous, fussy old lady, who keeps you trotting, is never satisfied, and worries you till you you’re ready to fly out the window or cry?’
“你的困难没有我一半多，”乔说。 “你愿意和一个紧张、挑剔的老太太关上几个小时吗？她让你不停地小跑，永远不会满足，还担心你，直到你准备飞出窗外或哭泣？”

‘It’s naughty to fret, but I do think washing dishes and keeping things tidy is the worst work in the world. It makes me cross, and my hands get so stiff, I can’t practice well at all.’ And Beth looked at her rough hands with a sigh that any one could hear that time.
“担心是很顽皮的，但我确实认为洗碗和保持东西整洁是世界上最糟糕的工作。这让我很生气，我的手变得很僵硬，根本无法练习。”贝丝看着她粗糙的双手，叹了口气，当时任何人都能听到。

‘I don’t believe any of you suffer as I do,’ cried Amy, ‘for you don’t have to go to school with impertinent girls, who plague you if you don’t know your lessons, and laugh at your dresses, and label your father if he isn’t rich, and insult you when your nose isn’t nice.’
“我不相信你们中有人像我一样受苦，”艾米喊道，“因为你们不必和无礼的女孩一起上学，如果你不知道功课，她们就会困扰你，并嘲笑你的衣服如果你的父亲不富有，就给他贴上标签；如果你的鼻子不好看，就侮辱你。

‘If you mean libel, I’d say so, and not talk about labels, as if Papa was a pickle bottle,’ advised Jo, laughing.
“如果你指的是诽谤，我会这么说，而不是谈论标签，就好像爸爸是一个泡菜瓶一样，”乔笑着建议道。

‘I know what I mean, and you needn’t be statirical about it. It’s proper to use good words, and improve your vocabilary,’ returned Amy, with dignity.
“我知道我的意思，你不必对此进行统计。说得好听一点，提高一下词汇量是应该的。”艾米尊严地回答道。

‘Don’t peck at one another, children. Don’t you wish we had the money Papa lost when we were little, Jo? Dear me! How happy and good we’d be, if we had no worries!’ said Meg, who could remember better times.
‘孩子们，不要互相啄食。乔，你难道不希望我们拥有爸爸小时候丢掉的钱吗？亲爱的我！ “如果我们没有忧虑的话，我们会多么幸福多么美好啊！”梅格说道，她还记得美好的时光。

‘You said the other day you thought we were a deal happier than the King children, for they were fighting and fretting all the time, in spite of their money.’
“有一天你说你认为我们比国王的孩子们幸福得多，因为尽管他们有钱，但他们总是在争吵和烦恼。”

‘So I did, Beth. Well, I think we are. For though we do have to work, we make fun of ourselves, and are a pretty jolly set, as Jo would say.’
“我就是这么做的，贝丝。嗯，我想我们是。因为尽管我们确实必须工作，但我们会取笑自己，正如乔所说，我们是一群非常快乐的人。

‘Jo does use such slang words!’ observed Amy, with a reproving look at the long figure stretched on the rug.
“乔确实会用这种俚语！”艾米用责备的目光看着地毯上伸展的长长的身影。

Jo immediately sat up, put her hands in her pockets, and began to whistle.
乔立即坐起来，双手插进口袋，开始吹口哨。

‘Don’t, Jo. It’s so boyish!’
“别这样，乔。这太孩子气了！

‘That’s why I do it.’
“这就是我这样做的原因。”

‘I detest rude, unladylike girls!’
“我讨厌粗鲁、不淑女的女孩！”

‘I hate affected, niminy-piminy chits!’
“我讨厌做作的、胆怯的小东西！”

‘Birds in their little nests agree,’ sang Beth, the peacemaker, with such a funny face that both sharp voices softened to a laugh, and the ‘pecking’ ended for that time.
“小巢里的鸟儿都同意。”和事佬贝丝唱道，她的表情如此滑稽，以至于两个尖锐的声音都柔和成了笑声，“啄食”这一次就结束了。

‘Really, girls, you are both to be blamed,’ said Meg, beginning to lecture in her elder-sisterly fashion.’You are old enough to leave off boyish tricks, and to behave better, Josephine. It didn’t matter so much when you were a little girl, but now you are so tall, and turn up your hair, you should remember that you are a young lady.’
“真的，女孩们，你们俩都有罪，”梅格说，开始以姐姐的方式讲课。“你已经长大了，可以不再做孩子气的把戏了，应该表现得更好，约瑟芬。当你还是个小女孩的时候，这并不重要，但现在你已经这么高了，把头发盘起来，你应该记住你是一个年轻的女士。”

‘I’m not! And if turning up my hair makes me one, I’ll wear it in two tails till I’m twenty,’ cried Jo, pulling off her net, and shaking down a chestnut mane. ‘I hate to think I’ve got to grow up, and be Miss March, and wear long gowns, and look as prim as a China Aster! It’s bad enough to be a girl, anyway, when I like boy’s games and work and manners! I can’t get over my disappointment in not being a boy. And it’s worse than ever now, for I’m dying to go and fight with Papa. And I can only stay home and knit, like a poky old woman!’
'我不是！如果把我的头发盘起来就可以成为一个人，我会把它分成两条尾巴，直到我二十岁。”乔喊道，一边扯下她的网，一边抖落一头栗色的鬃毛。 “我讨厌想到我必须长大，成为马奇小姐，穿着长袍，看起来像紫菀一样拘谨！不管怎样，当我喜欢男孩的游戏、工作和举止时，作为一个女孩就已经够糟糕了！我无法克服自己不是男孩的失望。现在的情况比以往任何时候都更糟糕，因为我非常想和爸爸一起战斗。我只能呆在家里织毛衣，就像个瘦弱的老太婆！

And Jo shook the blue army sock till the needles rattled like castanets, and her ball bounded across the room.
乔摇晃蓝色的军袜，直到针头像响板一样嘎嘎作响，她的球弹跳着穿过房间。

‘Poor Jo! It’s too bad, but it can’t be helped. So you must try to be contented with making your name boyish, and playing brother to us girls,’ said Beth, stroking the rough head with a hand that all the dish washing and dusting in the world could not make ungentle in its touch.
可怜的乔！这太糟糕了，但也没有办法。所以你必须满足于让你的名字变得孩子气，并在我们女孩面前扮演兄弟，”贝丝说，用一只手抚摸着粗糙的头，世界上所有的洗碗和除尘都不会使它变得不温柔。

‘As for you, Amy,’ continued Meg, ‘you are altogether to particular and prim. Your airs are funny now, but you’ll grow up an affected little goose, if you don’t take care. I I like your nice manners and refined ways of speaking, when you don’t try to be elegant. But your absurd words are as bad as Jo’s slang.’
“至于你，艾米，”梅格继续说道，“你实在是太讲究和拘谨了。你现在的神态很有趣，但如果你不小心，你就会长大成为一只受影响的小鹅。我喜欢你优雅的举止和优雅的说话方式，尽管你不刻意表现得优雅。但你的荒唐言论和乔的俚语一样糟糕。”

‘If Jo is a tomboy and Amy a goose, what am I, please?’ asked Beth, ready to share the lecture.
“如果乔是个假小子，艾米是一只鹅，那么我是什么？”贝丝问道，准备分享讲座。

‘You’re a dear, and nothing else,’ answered Meg warmly, and no one contradicted her, for the ‘Mouse’ was the pet of the family.
“你是亲爱的，仅此而已。”梅格热情地回答，没有人反驳她，因为“老鼠”是家里的宠物。

As young readers like to know ‘how people look’, we will take this moment to give them a little sketch of the four sisters, who sat knitting away in the twilight, while the December snow fell quietly without, and the fire crackled cheerfully within. It was a comfortable room, though the carpet was faded and the furniture very plain, for a good picture or two hung on the walls, books filled the recesses, chrysanthemums and Christmas roses bloomed in the windows, and a pleasant atmosphere of home peace pervaded it.
由于年轻读者喜欢了解“人的样子”，我们将借此机会为他们描绘一下四姐妹的小素描，她们坐在暮色中编织，十二月的雪在外面静静地飘落，火在里面欢快地噼啪作响。 。这是一个舒适的房间，虽然地毯已经褪色，家具也很朴素，但墙上挂着一两幅好画，凹处摆满了书，窗子里盛开着菊花和圣诞玫瑰，弥漫着一种温馨祥和的家庭氛围。它。

Margaret, the eldest of the four, was sixteen, and very pretty, being plump and fair, with large eyes, plenty of soft brown hair, a sweet mouth, and white hands, of which she was rather vain. Fifteenyear-old Jo was very tall, thin, and brown, and reminded one of a colt, for she never seemed to know what to do with her long limbs, which were very much in her way. She had a decided mouth, a comical nose, and sharp, gray eyes, which appeared to see everything, and were by turns fierce, funny, or thoughtful. Her long, thick hair was her one beauty, but it was usually bundled into a net, to be out of her way. Round shoulders had Jo, big hands and feet, a flyaway look to her clothes, and the uncomfortable appearance of a girl who was rapidly shooting up into a woman and didn’t like it. Elizabeth, or Beth, as everyone called her, was a rosy, smoothhaired, bright-eyed girl of thirteen, with a shy manner, a timid voice, and a ;peaceful expression which was seldom disturbed. Her father called her ‘Little Miss Tranquility’, and the name suited her excellently, for she seemed to live in a happy world of her own, only venturing out to meet the few whom she trusted and loved. Amy, though the youngest, was a most important person, in her own opinion at least. A regular snow maiden, with blue eyes, and yellow hair curling on her shoulders, pale and slender, and always carrying herself like a young lady mindful of her manners. What the characters of the four sisters were we will leave to be found out.
玛格丽特是四个人中最大的一个，十六岁，非常漂亮，丰满，皮肤白皙，有一双大眼睛，一头柔软的棕色头发，一张甜美的嘴巴，还有一双白皙的手，她对此感到相当自负。十五岁的乔很高，很瘦，皮肤呈棕色，让人想起一匹小马驹，因为她似乎永远不知道如何处理她的长四肢，这非常妨碍她。她有一张坚定的嘴巴，一个滑稽的鼻子，一双锐利的灰色眼睛，似乎能看到一切，时而凶猛，时而滑稽，时而深思熟虑。她长而浓密的头发是她的一大美丽，但通常会被扎成网状，以免妨碍她。圆肩的乔，大手大脚，衣服看起来很飘逸，还有一种不舒服的感觉，就像一个女孩迅速向女人发起进攻，而且不喜欢这样。伊丽莎白，或者大家都这样称呼她的贝丝，是一个红润、头发光滑、眼睛明亮的十三岁女孩，举止害羞，声音胆怯，表情平静，很少受到干扰。她的父亲称她为“宁静小小姐”，这个名字非常适合她，因为她似乎生活在自己的幸福世界里，只是冒险出去见见她信任和爱的少数人。艾米虽然是最小的一个，但却是一个最重要的人，至少在她自己看来是这样。一个普通的雪女，蓝色的眼睛，黄色的头发卷曲在肩上，苍白而纤细，总是表现得像一位十分注重礼仪的小姐。四姐妹的性格究竟如何，我们拭目以待。

The clock struck six and, having swept up the hearth, Beth put a pair of slippers down to warm. Somehow the sight of the old shoes had a good effect upon the girls, for Mother was coming, and everyone brightened to welcome her. Meg stopped lecturing, and lighted the lamp, Amy got out of the easy chair without being asked, and Jo forgot how tired she was as she sat up to hold the slippers nearer to the blaze.
时钟敲响了六点，贝丝打扫完壁炉后，放下一双拖鞋取暖。不知何故，看到那双旧鞋子对女孩们产生了很好的影响，因为母亲要来了，每个人都高兴地欢迎她。梅格停止了讲课，点亮了灯，艾米没有被要求就从安乐椅上站起来，乔坐起来把拖鞋靠近火边，忘记了自己有多累。

‘They are quite worn out. Marmee must have a new pair.’
‘他们已经很疲惫了。妈妈必须买一双新的。

‘I thought I’d get her some with my dollar,’ said Beth.
“我想用我的钱给她买一些，”贝丝说。

‘No, I shall!’ cried Amy.
“不，我会的！”艾米喊道。

‘I’m the oldest,’ began Meg, but Jo cut in with a decided, ‘I’m the man of the family now Papa is away, and I shall provide the slippers, for he told me to take special care of Mother while he was gone.’
“我是最大的，”梅格开始说道，但乔坚决地插嘴道，“现在爸爸不在了，我是家里的男主了，我会提供拖鞋，因为他告诉我要特别照顾妈妈当他离开的时候。

‘I’ll tell you what we’ll do,’ said Beth, ‘let’s each get her something for Christmas, land not get anything for ourselves.’
“我来告诉你我们要做什么，”贝丝说，“让我们每个人都给她买点礼物，别给我们自己买东西。”

‘That’s like you, dear! What will we get?’ exclaimed Jo.
‘这就像你一样，亲爱的！我们会得到什么？”乔惊呼道。

Everyone thought soberly for a minute, then Meg announced, as if the idea was suggested by the sight of her own pretty hands, ‘I shall give her a nice pair of gloves.’
每个人都冷静地想了一会儿，然后梅格宣布，仿佛这个想法是由她自己漂亮的双手所暗示的，“我要给她一双漂亮的手套。”

‘Army shoes, best to be had,’ cried Jo.
“最好穿军鞋，”乔喊道。

‘Some handkerchiefs, all hemmed,’ said Beth.
“一些手帕，都是镶边的，”贝丝说。

‘I’ll get a little bottle of cologne. She likes it, and it won’t cost much, so I’ll have some left to buy my pencils,’ added Amy.
“我去买一小瓶古龙水。她喜欢它，而且不会花太多钱，所以我还剩下一些来买铅笔。”艾米补充道。

‘How will we give the things?’ asked Meg.
“我们怎么送东西呢？”梅格问道。

‘Put them on the table, and bring her in and see her open the bundles. Don’t you remember how we used to do on our birthdays?’ answered Jo.
“把它们放在桌子上，带她进来，看她打开包裹。你不记得我们以前过生日的时候是怎么过的吗？”乔回答道。

‘I used to be so frightened when it was my turn to sit in the chair with the crown on, and see you all come marching round to give the presents, with a kiss. I liked the things and the kisses, but it was dreadful to have you sit looking at me while I opened the bundles,’ said Beth, who was toasting her face and the bread for tea at the same time.
“当轮到我戴着王冠坐在椅子上，看到你们大步走过来送礼物，并亲吻我时，我感到非常害怕。我喜欢这些东西和亲吻，但当我打开包裹时，你坐着看着我，这太可怕了。”贝丝一边说着，一边烤着自己的脸和面包当茶。

‘Let Marmee think we are getting things for ourselves, and then surprise her. We must go shopping tomorrow afternoon, Meg. There is so much to do about the play for Christmas night,’ said Jo, marching up and down, with her hands behind her back, and her nose in the air.
“让妈妈以为我们是为自己谋取利益，然后给她一个惊喜。梅格，我们明天下午必须去购物。圣诞夜的戏剧有很多事情要做。”乔双手背在身后，鼻子高高地高高举起，一边说着，一边走来走去。

‘I don’t mean to act any more after this time. I’m getting too old for such things,’ observed Meg, who was as much a child as ever about ‘dressing-up’ frolics.
‘这次之后我不想再行动了。 “我已经太老了，不能再做这些事了。”梅格说，她对“打扮”嬉戏还是个孩子。

‘You won’t stop, I know, as long as you can trail round in a white gown with your hair down, and wear gold-paper jewelry. You are the best actress we’ve got, and there’ll be an end of everything if you quit the boards,’ said Jo. ‘We ought to rehearse tonight. Come here, Amy, and do the fainting scene, for you are as stiff as a poker in that.’
“我知道，只要你能披着头发、穿着白袍、戴着金纸首饰到处走，你就不会停下来。”你是我们最好的女演员，如果你退出董事会，一切都会结束，”乔说。 “今晚我们应该排练。艾米，过来，拍一下晕倒的场景，因为你在那场戏里僵硬得像一根拨火棍。

‘I can’t help it. I never saw anyone faint, and I don’t choose to make myself all black and blue, tumbling flat as you do. If I can go down easily, I’ll drop. If I can’t, I shall fall into a chair and be graceful. I don’t care if Hugo does come at me with a pistol,’ returned Amy, who was not gifted with dramatic power, but was chosen because she was small enough to be borne out shrieking by the villain of the piece.
“我忍不住。”我从来没见过有人晕倒，我也不会像你一样让自己遍体鳞伤，摔倒在地。如果我能轻松倒下，我就会倒下。如果我做不到，我会优雅地坐在椅子上。我不在乎雨果是否会拿着手枪向我袭来。”艾米回答道，她并没有戏剧性的天赋，但被选中是因为她个子很小，可以通过剧中反派的尖叫声来证明。

‘Do it this way. Clasp your hands so, and stagger across the room, crying frantically, ‘Roderigo Save me! Save me!’ and away went Jo, with a melodramatic scream which was truly thrilling.
‘就这样吧。双手紧握，摇摇晃晃地穿过房间，疯狂地喊道：“罗德里戈救救我！”救救我！”说着乔就走了，伴随着一声戏剧性的尖叫，这真是令人惊心动魄。

Amy followed, but she poked her hands out stiffly before her, and jerked herself along as if she went by machinery, and her ‘Ow!’ was more suggestive of pins being run into her than of fear and anguish. Jo gave a despairing groan, and Meg laughed outright, while Beth let her bread burn as she watched the fun with interest. ‘It’s no use! Do the best you can when the time comes, and if the audience laughs, don’t blame me. Come on, Meg.’
艾米跟在后面，但她僵硬地伸出双手，猛地向前走，就像是在机械中行走一样，她的“噢！”更像是针扎到了她身上，而不是恐惧和痛苦。乔绝望地呻吟了一声，梅格哈哈大笑，而贝丝则饶有兴致地看着面包燃烧着。 '这是没有用的！到时候就尽力而为吧，如果观众笑了，别怪我。来吧，梅格。”

‘Then things went smoothly, for Don Pedro defied the world in a speech of two pages without a single break. Hagar, the witch, chanted an awful incantation over her kettleful of simmering toads, with weird effect. Roderigo rent his chains asunder manfully, and Hugo died in agonies of remorse and arsenic, with a wild, ‘Ha! Ha!’
“然后事情进展顺利，因为唐·佩德罗在长达两页的演讲中不间断地挑战了世界。女巫夏甲对着她那一壶正在煮的蟾蜍念出了可怕的咒语，产生了奇怪的效果。罗德里戈英勇地挣断了他的锁链，雨果则在悔恨和砒霜的痛苦中死去，并狂野地喊道：“哈！”哈！'

‘It’s the best we’ve had yet,’ said Meg, as the dead villain sat up and rubbed his elbows.
“这是我们迄今为止经历过的最好的一次，”梅格说，死去的恶棍坐了起来，揉着胳膊肘。

‘I don’t see how you can write and act such splendid things, Jo. You’re a regular Shakespeare!’ exclaimed Beth, who firmly believed that her sisters were gifted with wonderful genius in all things.
“我不明白你怎么能写出和表演出如此出色的作品，乔。你就是一个普通的莎士比亚！”贝丝惊呼道，她坚信她的姐妹们在所有事情上都具有非凡的天赋。

‘Not quite,’ replied Jo modestly. ‘I do think THE WITCHES CURSE, an Operatic Tragedy is rather a nice thing, but I’d like to try McBETH, if we only had a trapdoor for Banquo. I always wanted to do the killing part. ‘Is that a dagger that I see before me?’ muttered Jo, rolling her eyes and clutching at the air, as she had seen a famous tragedian do.
“不完全是，”乔谦虚地回答道。 “我确实认为《女巫的诅咒》这部歌剧悲剧相当不错，但我想尝试一下《麦克白》，如果我们只有班柯的活板门的话。我一直想演杀人的部分。 “我眼前看到的是一把匕首吗？”乔翻着白眼，抓着空气，嘟哝道，就像她见过一位著名悲剧演员所做的那样。

‘No, it’s the toasting fork, with Mother’s shoe on it instead of the bread. Beth’s stage-struck!’ cried Meg, and the rehearsal ended in a general burst of laughter.
“不，这是烤叉，上面放的是妈妈的鞋子，而不是面包。贝丝被舞台迷住了！”梅格喊道，排练在一片笑声中结束。

‘Glad to find you so merry, my girls,’ said a cheery voice at the door, and actors and audience turned to welcome a tall, motherly lady with a ‘can I help you’ look about her which was truly delightful. She was not elegantly dressed, but a noble-looking woman, and the girls thought the gray cloak and unfashionable bonnet covered the most splendid mother in the world.
“很高兴看到你们这么快乐，我的女儿们。”门口传来一个欢快的声音，演员和观众转过身来欢迎一位身材高大、慈母般的女士，她的表情是“我可以帮你吗”，这真是令人愉快。她的衣着并不华丽，但却是一位相貌高贵的女人，女孩们认为灰色的斗篷和不合时宜的帽子掩盖了世界上最辉煌的母亲。

‘Well, dearies, how have you got on today? There was so much to do, getting the boxes ready to go tomorrow, that I didn’t come home to dinner. Has anyone called, Beth? How is your cold, Meg? Jo, you look tired to death. Come and kiss me, baby.’
‘好吧，亲爱的，你们今天过得怎么样？有太多事情要做，准备明天的箱子，所以我没有回家吃晚饭。贝丝，有人打电话来吗？梅格，你感冒怎么样？乔，你看起来累得要死。来吻我吧，宝贝。

While making these maternal inquiries Mrs. March got her wet things off, her warm slippers on, and sitting down in the easy chair, drew Amy to her lap, preparing to enjoy the happiest hour of her busy day. The girls flew about, trying to make things comfortable, each in her own way. Meg arranged the tea table, Jo brought wood and set chairs, dropping, over-turning, and clattering everything she touched. Beth trotted to and fro between parlor kitchen, quiet and busy, while Amy gave directions to everyone, as she sat with her hands folded.
马奇夫人一边做着这些母亲般的询问，一边脱掉湿漉漉的衣服，穿上温暖的拖鞋，坐在安乐椅上，把艾米拉到腿上，准备享受忙碌一天中最快乐的时光。女孩们飞来飞去，试图以自己的方式让一切变得舒适。梅格摆好茶几，乔拿来木头和椅子，她碰过的所有东西都掉落、翻倒、叮当作响。贝丝在客厅厨房之间小跑着，安静而忙碌，而艾米则双手交叉坐着，给每个人指路。

As they gathered about the table, Mrs. March said, with a particularly happy face, ‘I’ve got a treat for you after supper.’
当他们聚集在桌子旁时，马奇夫人脸上带着特别高兴的表情说：“晚饭后我给你们准备了一份请客。”

A quick, bright smile went round like a streak of sunshine. Beth clapped her hands, regardless of the biscuit she held, and Jo tossed up her napkin, crying, ‘A letter! A letter! Three cheers for Father!’
脸上迅速绽放出灿烂的笑容，就像一道阳光。贝丝拍了拍手，不管她手里拿着什么饼干，乔扔起餐巾，哭道：“一封信！”一封信！为父亲欢呼三声！

‘Yes, a nice long letter. He is well, and thinks he shall get through the cold season better than we feared. He sends all sorts of loving wishes for Christmas, and an especial message to you girls,’ said Mrs. March, patting her pocket as if she had got a treasure there.
“是的，一封很好的长信。他很好，并且认为他会比我们担心的更好地度过寒冷的季节。他向你们送去了各种充满爱意的圣诞节祝福，并向你们女孩们传达了一条特别的信息。”马奇夫人一边说，一边拍着口袋，仿佛里面有宝藏一样。

‘Hurry and get done! Don’t stop to quirk your little finger and simper over your plate, Amy,’ cried Jo, choking on her tea and dropping her bread, butter side down, on the carpet in her haste to get at the treat.
‘快点完成吧！别停下来扭动你的小指，在你的盘子上傻笑，艾米，”乔喊道，她被茶噎住了，她匆忙去拿食物，把面包掉在地毯上，黄油面朝下。

Beth ate no more, but crept away to sit in her shadowy corner and brood over the delight to come, till the others were ready.
贝丝不再吃东西，而是悄悄走开，坐在她阴暗的角落里，沉思着即将到来的喜悦，直到其他人准备好。

‘I think it was so splendid in Father to go as chaplain when he was too old to be drafted, and not strong enough for a soldier,’ said Meg warmly.
“我觉得父亲年纪太大了，不能应征入伍，身体也不足以当兵，但他能去当牧师，真是太棒了，”梅格热情地说。

‘Don’t I wish I could go as a drummer, a vivan—what’s its name? Or a nurse, so I could be near him and help him,’ exclaimed Jo, with a groan.
“难道我不希望我能成为一名鼓手，一名 vivan——它叫什么名字？或者是一名护士，这样我就可以靠近他并帮助他，”乔呻吟着喊道。

‘It must be very disagreeable to sleep in a tent, and eat all sorts of bad-tasting things, and drink out of a tin mug,’ sighed Amy.
“睡在帐篷里，吃各种难吃的东西，用锡杯喝水，一定很不舒服。”艾米叹了口气。

‘When will he come home, Marmee? asked Beth, with a little quiver in her voice.
“他什么时候回家，妈咪？贝丝问道，声音里有些颤抖。

‘Not for many months, dear, unless he is sick. He will stay and do his work faithfully as long as he can, and we won’t ask for him back a minute sooner than he can be spared. Now come and hear the letter.’
“不会好几个月了，亲爱的，除非他病了。”只要他能做到，他就会留下来忠实地完成他的工作，我们不会要求他早一分钟回来。现在来听听这封信。

They all drew to the fire, Mother in the big chair with Beth at her feet, Meg and Amy perched on either arm of the chair, and Jo leaning on the back, where no one would see any sign of emotion if the letter should happen to be touching. Very few letters were written in those hard times that were not touching, especially those which fathers sent home. In this one little was said of the hardships endured, the dangers faced, or the homesickness conquered. It was a cheerful, hopeful letter, full of lively descriptions of camp life, marches, and military news, and only at the end did the writer’s heart over-flow with fatherly love and longing for the little girls at home.
他们都聚集到火边，母亲坐在大椅子上，贝丝坐在她脚边，梅格和艾米坐在椅子的两边扶手上，乔靠在椅背上，如果这封信发生的话，没有人会看到任何情绪的迹象。令人感动。在那些艰难时期写下的信很少是不感人的，尤其是那些父亲们寄回家的信。在这一章中，我们很少谈到所经历的艰辛、面临的危险或克服的思乡之情。这是一封欢快、充满希望的信，充满了对集中营生活、行军、军事新闻的生动描述，直到最后，作者的内心才洋溢着父爱和对家里小女孩的思念。

‘Give them all of my dear love and a kiss. Tell them I think of them by day, pray for them by night, and find my best comfort in their affection at all times. A year seems very long to wait before I see them, but remind them that while we wait we may all work, so that these hard days need not be wasted. I know they will remember all I said to them, that they will be loving children to you, will do their duty faithfully, fight their bosom enemies bravely, and conquer themselves so beautifully that when I come back to them I may be fonder and prouder than ever of my little women.’ Everybody sniffed when they came to that part. Jo wasn’t ashamed of the great tear that dropped off the end of her nose, and Amy never minded the rumpling of her curls as she hid her face on her mother’s shoulder and sobbed out, ‘I am a selfish girl! But I’ll truly try to be better, so he mayn’t be disappointed in me by-and-by.’
“给他们我所有的爱和一个吻。告诉他们我白天思念他们，晚上为他们祈祷，并在任何时候从他们的爱中找到我最好的安慰。一年的等待似乎很漫长，但要提醒他们，在等待的同时，我们都可以工作，这样辛苦的日子就不会被浪费了。我知道他们会记住我对他们说过的一切，他们会是你们心爱的孩子，会忠实地履行自己的职责，勇敢地与他们的心敌作战，并如此美丽地征服自己，以便当我回到他们身边时，我可能会更加喜爱和自豪“比我的小女人们还要多。”说到这里，每个人都嗤之以鼻。乔并不为从鼻尖流下的大滴泪水感到羞耻，艾米也不介意卷曲的卷发，她把脸埋在母亲的肩膀上，抽泣着说：“我是一个自私的女孩！”但我真的会努力变得更好，这样他很快就不会对我失望了。”

We all will,’ cried Meg. ‘I think too much of my looks and hate to work, but won’t any more, if I can help it.’
我们都会的，”梅格喊道。 “我太看重自己的外表，讨厌工作，但如果我能控制的话，我就不会再工作了。”

‘I’ll try and be what he loves to call me, ‘a little woman’ and not be rough and wild, but do my duty here instead of wanting to be somewhere else,’ said Jo, thinking that keeping her temper at home was a much harder task than facing a rebel or two down South.
“我会努力成为他喜欢叫我的人，‘一个小女人’，不要粗鲁和狂野，而是在这里履行我的职责，而不是想去其他地方，”乔说，她认为在家里控制脾气这比在南方面对一两个叛军要困难得多。

Beth said nothing, but wiped away her tears with the blue army sock and began to knit with all her might, losing no time in doing the duty that lay nearest her, while she resolved in her quiet little soul to be all that Father hoped to find her when the year brought round the happy coming home.
贝丝什么也没说，只是用蓝色军袜擦干眼泪，开始用尽全力编织，不失时机地完成离她最近的职责，同时她在她安静的小灵魂里下定决心要成为父亲所希望的一切。当新年快乐回家时找到她。

Mrs. March broke the silence that followed Jo’s words, by saying in her cheery voice, ‘Do you remember how you used to play Pilgrims Progress when you were little things? Nothing delighted you more than to have me tie my piece bags on your backs for burdens, give you hats and sticks and rolls of paper, and let you travel through the house from the cellar, which was the City of Destruction, up, up, to the housetop, where you had all the lovely things you could collect to make a Celestial City.’
马奇夫人打破了乔的话后的沉默，她用欢快的声音说道：“你还记得小时候是怎么玩《天路历程》的吗？”没有什么比让我把我的行李袋绑在你们背上作为负担更让你们高兴的了，给你们帽子、棍棒和纸卷，让你们从地窖穿过房子，那是毁灭之城，向上，向上，到屋顶，在那里你可以收集所有可爱的东西来建造一座天国。

‘What fun it was, especially going by the lions, fighting Apollyon, and passing through the valley where the hob-goblins were,’ said Jo.
“这真是太有趣了，尤其是经过狮子，与魔王战斗，并穿过大妖精所在的山谷，”乔说。

‘I liked the place where the bundles fell off and tumbled downstairs,’ said Meg.
“我喜欢包袱掉下来滚下楼的地方，”梅格说。

‘I don’t remember much about it, except that I was afraid of the cellar and the dark entry, and always liked the cake and milk we had up at the top. If I wasn’t too old for such things, I’d rather like to play it over again,’ said Amy, who began to talk of renouncing childish things at the mature age of twelve.
“我不太记得了，除了我害怕地窖和黑暗的入口，而且总是喜欢我们在顶部的蛋糕和牛奶。如果我年纪还不算太大，我宁愿再玩一遍。”艾米说，她在十二岁那年就开始谈论放弃幼稚的事情。

‘We never are too old for this, my dear, because it is a play we are playing all the time in one way or another. Out burdens are here, our road is before us, and the longing for goodness and happiness is the guide that leads us through many troubles and mistakes to the peace which is a true Celestial City. Now, my little pilgrims, suppose you begin again, not in play, but in earnest, and see how far on you can get before Father comes home.’
“亲爱的，我们永远不会太老，因为这是我们一直在以这样或那样的方式玩的一出戏。重担已经卸下，道路就在我们面前，对美好和幸福的向往是引​​导我们度过许多烦恼和错误，到达真正的天国平安的道路。现在，我的小朝圣者们，假设你们重新开始，不是玩耍，而是认真，看看在父亲回家之前你们能走多远。

‘Really, Mother? Where are our bundles?’ asked Amy, who was a very literal young lady.
‘真的吗，妈妈？我们的包裹在哪里？”艾米问道，她是一位非常实际的年轻女士。

‘Each of you told what your burden was just now, except Beth. I rather think she hasn’t got any,’ said her mother.
“除了贝丝之外，你们每个人都讲述了刚才你们的负担是什么。我宁愿认为她没有，”她的母亲说。

‘Yes, I have. Mine is dishes and dusters, and envying girls with nice pianos, and being afraid of people.’
'是的，我有。我的爱好是盘子和掸子，羡慕拥有漂亮钢琴的女孩，但又害怕别人。”

Beth’s bundle was such a funny one that everybody wanted to laugh, but nobody did, for it would have hurt her feelings very much.
贝丝的包裹非常有趣，每个人都想笑，但没有人笑，因为这会非常伤害她的感情。

‘Let us do it,’ said Meg thoughtfully. ‘It is only another name for trying to be good, and the story may help us, for though we do want to be good, it’s hard work and we forget, and don’t do our best.’
“让我们开始吧，”梅格若有所思地说。 “这只是努力做好人的另一个名字，这个故事可能对我们有帮助，因为尽管我们确实想做好人，但这是一项艰苦的工作，我们会忘记，也不会尽力而为。”

‘We were in the Slough of Despond tonight, and Mother came and pulled us out as Help did in the book. We ought to have our roll of directions, like Christian. What shall we do about that?’ asked Jo, delighted with the fancy which lent a little romance to the very dull task of doing her duty.
“今晚我们陷入了绝望的深渊，母亲来了，把我们拉了出来，就像书中帮助的那样。我们应该像克里斯蒂安一样有自己的方向。 “我们该怎么办呢？”乔问道，她很高兴这种幻想给枯燥的履行职责的任务增添了一点浪漫色彩。

‘Look under your pillows christmas morning, and you will find your guidebook,’ replied Mrs. March.
“圣诞节早上看看你的枕头底下，你会找到你的旅游指南，”马奇太太回答道。

They talked over the new plan while old Hannah cleared the table, then out came the four little work baskets, and the needles flew as the girls made sheets for Aunt March. It was uninteresting sewing, but tonight no one grumbled. They adopted Jo’s plan of dividing the long seams into four parts, and calling the quarters Europe, Asia, Africa, and America, and in that way got on capitally, especially when they talked about the different countries as they stitched their way through them.
他们讨论了新计划，老汉娜清理了桌子，然后拿出了四个小工作篮，当女孩们为马奇姨妈做床单时，针飞了起来。这是一件无趣的​​缝纫活，但今晚没有人抱怨。他们采用了乔的计划，将长缝线分成四部分，并将这些区域称为欧洲、亚洲、非洲和美洲，这样就相处得很融洽，尤其是当他们在缝制过程中谈论不同的国家时。

At nine they stopped work, and sang, as usual, before they went to bed. No one but Beth could get much music out of the old piano, but she had a way of softly touching the yellow keys and making a pleasant accompaniment to the simple songs they sang. Meg had a voice like a flute, and she and herr mother led the little choir. Amy chirped like a cricket, and Jo wandered through the airs at her own sweet will, always coming out at the wrong place with a croak or a quaver that spoiled the most pensive tune. They had always done this from the time they could lisp...
九点钟，他们停止工作，像往常一样，在睡觉前唱歌。除了贝丝之外，没有人能从这架旧钢琴中演奏出很多音乐，但她有一种方法，可以轻轻地触摸黄色的琴键，为他们唱的简单歌曲做出愉快的伴奏。梅格的声音像长笛一样，她和她的母亲带领着这个小合唱团。艾米像蟋蟀一样叽叽喳喳，乔则按照自己甜蜜的意愿在空中漫步，总是在错误的地方出现，发出嘎嘎声或颤抖声，破坏了最沉思的曲调。从他们会口齿不清的时候起，他们就一直这样做……

Crinkle, crinkle, ‘ittle ‘tar,
皱纹，皱纹，“小焦油”，

and it had become a household custom, for the mother was a born singer. The first sound in the morning was her voice as she went about the house singing like a lark, and the last sound at night was the same cheery sound, for the girls never grew too old for that familiar lullaby.
这已经成为一种家庭习俗，因为母亲是天生的歌手。早上的第一声声音是她在房子里走来走去，像百灵鸟一样唱歌的声音，晚上的最后一次声音也是同样欢快的声音，因为女孩们永远不会太老而无法听懂那熟悉的摇篮曲。

CHAPTER TWO
第二章

Jo was the first to wake in the gray dawn of Christmas morning. No stockings hung at the fireplace, and for a moment she felt as much disappointed as she did long ago, when her little sock fell down because it was crammed so full of goodies. Then she remembered her mother’s promise and, slipping her hand under her pillow, drew out a little crimson-covered book. She knew it very well, for it was that beautiful old story of the best life ever lived, and Jo felt that it was a true guidebook for any pilgrim going on a long journey. She woke Meg with a ‘Merry Christmas,’ and bade her see what was under her pillow. A greencovered book appeared, with the same picture inside, and a few words written by their mother, which made their one present very precious in their eyes. Presently Beth and Amy woke to rummage and find their little books also, one dove-colored, the other blue, and all sat looking at and talking about them, while the east grew rosy with the coming day.
乔是第一个在圣诞节早晨灰蒙蒙的黎明中醒来的人。壁炉旁没有挂袜子，有那么一会儿，她感到像很久以前一样失望，当时她的小袜子掉了下来，因为里面塞满了好吃的东西。然后她想起了母亲的承诺，把手伸到枕头底下，拿出一本深红色封面的小书。她非常了解它，因为这是一个美丽的古老故事，讲述了有史以来最好的生活，乔觉得这对于任何长途旅行的朝圣者来说都是一本真正的指南。她用“圣诞快乐”叫醒了梅格，并让她看看枕头下有什么。一本绿色封面的书出现了，里面是同样的图片，还有母亲写的几句话，这让他们觉得这份礼物非常珍贵。不久，贝丝和艾米醒来，翻箱倒柜，发现了他们的小书，一本是鸽子色，另一本是蓝色的，所有人都坐在那儿看着并谈论着它们，而东方随着即将到来的一天变得玫瑰色。

In spite of her small vanities, Margaret had a sweet and pious nature, which unconsciously influenced her sisters, especially Jo, who loved her very tenderly, and obeyed her because her advice was so gently given.
尽管玛格丽特有小小的虚荣心，但她的天性甜美而虔诚，这在不知不觉中影响了她的姐妹们，尤其是乔，她非常温柔地爱着她，并服从她，因为她的建议是如此温柔地提出。

‘Girls,’ said Meg seriously, looking from the tumbled head beside her to the two little night-capped ones in the room beyond, ‘Mother wants us to read and love and mind these books, and we must begin at once. We used to be faithful about it, but since Father went away and all this war trouble unsettled us, we have neglected many things. You can do as you please, but I shall keep my book on the table here and read a little every morning as soon as I wake, for I know it will do me good and help me through the day.’
“孩子们，”梅格严肃地说，目光从身旁那颗低垂的脑袋转向远处房间里两个戴着睡帽的小脑袋，“妈妈希望我们阅读、热爱和关注这些书，我们必须立即开始。我们曾经对此很忠实，但自从父亲离开后，所有这些战争麻烦都让我们不安，我们忽略了很多事情。你可以做你想做的事，但我会把我的书放在桌子上，每天早上醒来后就读一点，因为我知道这对我有好处，可以帮助我度过这一天。

Then she opened her new book and began to read. Jo put her arm round her and, leaning cheek to cheek, read also, with the quiet expression so seldom seen on her restless face.
然后她打开新书开始读。乔用手臂搂住她，脸贴着脸也读着，她不安的脸上带着罕见的平静表情。

‘How good Meg is! Come, Amy, let’s do as they do. I’ll help you with the hard words, and they’’ explain things if we don’t understand,’ whispered Beth, very much impressed by the pretty books and her sisters, example.
‘梅格多好啊！来吧，艾米，让我们像他们一样做。我会帮助你理解难懂的单词，如果我们听不懂，它们会解释，”贝丝低声说道，这些漂亮的书和她的姐妹们的例子给她留下了深刻的印象。

‘I’m glad mine is blue,’ said Amy. and then the rooms were very still while the pages were softly turned, and the winter sunshine crept in to touch the bright heads and serious faces with a Christmas greeting.
“我很高兴我的是蓝色的，”艾米说。然后房间里一片寂静，书页被轻柔地翻动，冬日的阳光悄悄地照进来，照在每个人明亮的脑袋和严肃的脸上，传递着圣诞的问候。

‘Where is Mother?’ asked Meg, as she and Jo ran down to thank her for their gifts, half an hour later.
“妈妈在哪儿？”半小时后，梅格和乔跑下来感谢她送的礼物，问道。

‘Goodness only knows. some poor creeter came a-beggin’, and your ma went straight off to see what was needed. There never was such a woman for givin’ away vittles and drink, clothes and firin’,’ replied Hannah, who had lived with the family since Meg was born, and was considered by them all more as a friend than a servant.
‘只有善良才知道。一些可怜的小家伙过来乞讨，你妈妈就直接出去看看需要什么。从来没有这样一个女人会赠送食物、饮料、衣服和食物，”汉娜回答道。自从梅格出生以来，她就和家人住在一起，被他们视为朋友而不是仆人。

‘She will be back soon, I think, so fry your cakes, and have everything ready,’ said Meg, looking over the presents which were collected in a basket and kept under the sofa, ready to be produced at the proper time. ‘why, where is Amy’s bottle of cologne?’ she added, as the little flask did not appear.
“我想她很快就会回来，所以煎蛋糕吧，把一切都准备好，”梅格一边说，一边看着放在篮子里、放在沙发下的礼物，准备在适当的时候制作。 “为什么，艾米的那瓶古龙水在哪里？”她补充道，因为小瓶子没有出现。

‘She took it out a minute ago, and went off with it to put a ribbon on it, or some such notion,’ replied Jo, dancing about the room to take the first stiffness off the new army slippers.
“她一分钟前就把它拿出来了，然后就走了，想在上面系上一条丝带，或者类似的想法，”乔回答道，一边在房间里跳来跳去，以消除新军用拖鞋的第一个僵硬感。

‘How nice my handkerchiefs look, don’t they? Hannah washed and ironed them for me, and I marked them all myself,’ said Beth, looking proudly at the somewhat uneven letters which had cost her such labor.
“我的手帕看起来多漂亮，不是吗？汉娜帮我清洗和熨烫了它们，我自己在它们上做了标记，”贝丝自豪地看着那些有些不均匀的字母，这些字母让她付出了巨大的努力。

‘Bless the child! She’s gone and put ‘Mother’ on them instead of ‘M. March’. How funny!’ cried Jo, taking one up.
‘祝福孩子！她走了，把“M”换成了“Mother”。行进'。多有趣啊！”乔拿起一张，大声说道。

‘Isn’t that right? I thought it was better to do it so, because Meg’s initials are M.M., and I don’t want anyone to use these but Marmee,’ said Beth;, looking troubled.
‘是吗？我认为这样做更好，因为梅格的名字缩写是 M.M.，我不想让除了妈妈以外的任何人使用这些，”贝丝说道，看上去很困惑。

‘It’s all right, dear, and a very pretty idea, quite sensible too, for no one can ever mistake now. It will please her very much, I know,’ said Meg, with a frown for Jo and a smile for Beth.
“没关系，亲爱的，这是一个非常漂亮的主意，也非常明智，因为现在没有人会犯错。我知道，这会让她非常高兴。”梅格说，对乔皱着眉头，对贝丝微笑。

‘There’s Mother. Hide the basket, quick!’ cried Jo, as a door slammed and steps sounded in the hall.
‘那儿有妈妈。 “把篮子藏起来，快点！”乔喊道，门关上，走廊里响起了脚步声。

Amy came in hastily, and looked rather abashed when she saw her sisters all waiting for her.
艾米匆匆进来，看到姐姐们都在等她，显得有些尴尬。

‘Where have you been, and what are you hiding behind you?’ asked Meg, surprised to see, by her hood and cloak, that lazy Amy had been out so early.
“你去哪儿了？你在背后藏着什么？”梅格问道，她惊讶地发现，从她的兜帽和斗篷中，那个懒惰的艾米这么早就出门了。

‘Don’t laugh at me, Jo! I didn’t mean anyone should know till the time came. I only meant to change the little bottle for a big one, and I gave all my money to get it, and I’m truly trying not to be selfish any more.’
“别笑我，乔！我并不是说在时机到来之前任何人都应该知道。我只是想把小瓶子换成大瓶子，我花了我所有的钱才得到它，我真的努力不再自私了。”

As she spoke, Amy showed the handsome flask which replaced the cheap one, and looked so earnest and humble in her little effort to forget herself that Meg hugged her on the spot, and Jo pronounced her ‘a trump’, while Beth ran to the window, and picked her finest rose to ornament the stately bottle.
说话的时候，艾米展示了那个漂亮的烧瓶，取代了廉价的烧瓶，看上去如此认真和谦虚，几乎不费吹灰之力就忘记了自己，梅格当场拥抱了她，乔宣布她是“王牌”，而贝丝则跑向了房间。窗外，摘了她最好的玫瑰来装饰庄严的瓶子。

‘You see I felt ashamed of my present, after reading and talking about being good this morning, so I ran round the corner and changed it the minute I was up, and I’m so glad, for mine is the handsomest now.’
“你看，今天早上读完并谈论了‘好’之后，我对自己的礼物感到羞愧，所以我起床后就跑到街角去换了它，我很高兴，因为我的礼物现在是最漂亮的。”

Another bang of the street door sent the basket under the sofa, and the girls to the table, eager for breakfast.
临街的门又一声巨响，篮子被送到了沙发下，女孩们来到餐桌前，迫不及待地想吃早餐。

‘Merry Christmas, Marmee! Many of them! Thank you for our books. We read some, and mean to every day,’ they all cried in chorus. ‘Merry Christmas, little daughters! I’m glad you began at once, and hope you will keep on. But I want to say one word before we sit down. Not far away from here lies a poor woman with a little newborn baby. Six children are huddled into one bed to keep from freezing, for they have no fire. There is nothing to eat over there, and the oldest boy came to tell me they were suffering hunger and cold. My girls, will you give them your breakfast as a Christmas present?’
‘圣诞快乐，妈妈！许多人！谢谢您给我们的书。我们读了一些，并且每天都读，”他们异口同声地喊道。 ‘圣诞快乐，小女儿们！我很高兴你立即开始，并希望你能坚持下去。但在我们坐下之前我想说一句话。离这里不远的地方躺着一位带着刚出生的小婴儿的贫穷妇女。六个孩子挤在一张床上，以免被冻住，因为他们没有生火。那边没有东西吃，最大的男孩过来告诉我他们又饿又冷。我的女儿们，你会把早餐作为圣诞礼物送给她们吗？

They were all unusually hungry, having waited nearly an hour, and for a minute no one spoke, only a minute, for Jo exclaimed impetuously, ‘I’m so glad you came before we began!’
他们都异常饥饿，等了将近一个小时，有一分钟没有人说话，只有一分钟，因为乔急躁地喊道：“我很高兴你在我们开始之前就来了！”

‘May I go and help carry the things to the poor little children?’ asked Beth eagerly.
“我可以去帮那些可怜的小孩子们搬东西吗？”贝丝急切地问道。

‘I shall take the cream and the muffings,’ added Amy, heroically giving up the article she most liked.
“我要奶油和松饼，”艾米补充道，英勇地放弃了她最喜欢的文章。

Meg was already covering the buckwheats, and piling the bread into one big plate.
梅格已经把荞麦盖好，把面包堆进一个大盘子里。

‘I thought you’d do it,’ said Mrs. March, smiling as if satisfied. ‘You shall all go and help me, and when we come back we will have bread and milk for breakfast, and make it up at dinnertime.’
“我以为你会这么做，”马奇太太微笑着说道，似乎很满意。 “你们都去帮帮我，回来后我们早餐吃面包和牛奶，晚餐补上。”

They were soon ready, and the procession set out. Fortunately it was early, and they went through back streets, so few people saw them, and no one laughed at the queer party.
他们很快就准备好了，游行队伍出发了。幸好时间还早，又走的是小巷，所以很少有人看见他们，也没有人嘲笑这群奇怪的人。

A poor, bare, miserable room it was, with broken windows, no fire, ragged bedclothes, a sick mother, wailing baby, and a group of pale, hungry children cuddled under one old quilt, trying to keep warm.
那是一间简陋、空荡、悲惨的房间，窗户破了，没有火，破烂的床单，生病的母亲，哭泣的婴儿，一群面色苍白、饥饿的孩子蜷缩在一张旧被子下，试图取暖。

How the big eyes stared and the blue lips smiled as the girls went in.
当女孩们走进去时，一双大眼睛凝视着，蓝色的嘴唇微笑着。

‘Ach, mein Gott! It is good angels come to us!’ said the poor woman, crying for joy.
‘啊，我的哥特！好心的天使降临到我们身边了！”可怜的女人高兴得哭了起来。

‘Funny angels in hoods and mittens,’ said Jo, and set them to laughing.
“戴着兜帽和手套的滑稽天使，”乔说，让他们笑了起来。

In a few minutes it really did seem as if kind spirits had been at work there. Hannah, who had carried wood, made a fire, and stopped up the broken panes with old hats and her own cloak. Mrs. March gave the mother tea and gruel, and comforted her with promises of help, while she dressed the little baby as tenderly as if it had been her own. The girls meantime spread the table, set the children round the fire, and fed them like so many hungry birds, laughing, talking, and trying to understand the funny broken English.
几分钟后，看起来确实有好心人在那里工作。汉娜搬来了木头，生了火，用旧帽子和自己的斗篷堵住了破碎的窗玻璃。马奇太太给这位母亲倒了茶和粥，并承诺会帮助她安慰她，同时她还给小婴儿穿得像她自己的孩子一样温柔。与此同时，女孩们铺好桌子，把孩子们围在火边，像饥饿的小鸟一样喂他们，一边笑着，一边说话，试图理解有趣的蹩脚英语。

‘Das ist gut!’ ‘Die Engel-kinder!’ cried the poor things as they ate and warmed their purple hands at the comfortable blaze. The girls had never been called angel children before, and thought it very agreeable, especially Jo, who had been considered a ‘Sancho’ ever since she was born. That was a very happy breakfast, though they didn’t get any of it. And when they went away, leaving comfort behind, I think there were not in all the city four merrier people than the hungry little girls who gave away their breakfasts and contented themselves with bread and milk on Christmas morning.
“Das ist gut！”“Die Engel-kinder！”这些可怜的东西边吃边喊道，并在舒适的火焰中温暖着紫色的手。女孩们以前从来没有被称为天使孩子，觉得很舒服，尤其是乔，从出生起就被认为是“桑乔”。那是一顿非常幸福的早餐，虽然他们什么也没吃。当他们离开时，留下安慰，我想整个城市里没有四个人比那些在圣诞节早晨赠送早餐并满足于面包和牛奶的饥饿小女孩更快乐的了。

‘That’s loving our neighbor better than ourselves, and I like it,’ said Meg, as they set out their presents while their mother was upstairs collecting clothes for the poor Hummels.
“这就是爱我们的邻居胜过爱我们自己，我喜欢这样，”当他们的母亲在楼上为可怜的胡梅尔斯收集衣服时，梅格说道。

Not a very splendid show, but there was a great deal of love done up in the few little bundles, and the tall vase of red roses, white chrysanthemums, and trailing vines, which stood in the middle, gave quite an elegant air to the table.
表演虽不华丽，但那几小束却蕴含着浓浓的爱意，中间那高高的花瓶里插着红玫瑰、白菊花和蔓生藤蔓，给整个房间增添了一份优雅的气息。桌子。

‘She’s coming! Strike up, Beth! Open the door, Amy! Three cheers for Marmee!’ cried Jo, prancing about while Meg went to conduct Mother to the seat of honor.
'她来了！出击吧，贝丝！开门吧，艾米！为妈妈欢呼三声！”乔蹦蹦跳跳地喊道，而梅格则把母亲领到了主座上。

Beth played her gayest march, amy threw open the door, and Meg enacted escort with great dignity. Mrs. March was both surprised and touched, and smiled with her eyes full as she examined her presents and read the little notes which accompanied them. The slippers went on at once, a new handkerchief was slipped into her pocket, well scented with Amy’s cologne, the rose was fastened in her bosom, and the nice gloves were pronounced a perfect fit.
贝丝演奏了她最欢快的进行曲，艾米打开了门，梅格则以极大的尊严进行护送。马奇夫人既惊讶又感动，当她检查她的礼物并阅读随附的小纸条时，她满眼微笑。拖鞋立刻就开始了，一块新手帕被塞进了她的口袋，手帕上有艾米的古龙水的香味，玫瑰被系在她的怀里，漂亮的手套也被认为是完美的合身。

There was a good deal of laughing and kissing and explaining, in the simple, loving fashion which makes these home festivals so pleasant at the time, so sweet to remember long afterward, and then all fell to work.
有很多欢笑、亲吻和解释，以简单、充满爱的方式，这使得这些家庭节日在当时如此愉快，在事后很长一段时间里记忆起来如此甜蜜，然后一切都开始工作了。

The morning charities and ceremonies took so much time that the rest of the day was devoted to preparations for the evening festivities. Being still too young to go often to the theater, and not rich enough to afford any great outlay for private performances, the girls put their wits to work, and necessity being the mother of invention, made whatever they needed. Very clever were some of their productions, pasteboard guitars, antique lamps made of old-fashioned butter boats covered with silver paper, gorgeous robes of old cotton, glittering with tin spangles from a pickle factory, and armor covered with the same useful diamond shaped bits left inn sheets when the lids of preserve pots were cut out. The big chamber was the scene of many innocent revels.
早上的慈善活动和仪式花了很多时间，所以当天剩下的时间都用来准备晚上的庆祝活动。她们还太年轻，不能经常去剧院，也没有足够的钱来支付私人表演的大笔费用，她们把她们的智慧投入到工作中，需要是发明之母，她们创造了她们需要的一切。他们的一些作品非常聪明，纸板吉他，用老式黄油船制成的古董灯，上面覆盖着银纸，华丽的旧棉长袍，闪闪发光的泡菜工厂的锡亮片，以及覆盖着同样有用的菱形碎片的盔甲当保存罐的盖子被切开时，留下了旅馆床单。这座大房间是许多无辜狂欢的场所。

No gentleman were admitted, so Jo played male parts to her heart’s content and took immense satisfaction in a pair of russet leather boots given her by a friend, who knew a lady who knew an actor. These boots, an old foil, and a slashed doublet once used by an artist for some picture, were Jo’s chief treasures and appeared on all occasions. The smallness of the company made it necessary for the two principal actors to take several parts apiece, and they certainly deserved some credit for the hard work they did in learning three or four different parts, whisking in and out of various costumes, and managing the stage besides. It was excellent drill for their memories, a harmless amusement, and employed many hours which otherwise would have been idle, lonely, or spent in less profitable society.
没有绅士入场，所以乔尽情地扮演男性角色，并对一位朋友送给她的一双黄褐色皮靴感到非常满意，这位朋友认识一位认识演员的女士。这些靴子、一块旧箔纸和一件曾被一位艺术家用来拍摄照片的开叉紧身上衣，是乔的主要珍宝，出现在所有场合。公司规模较小，两位主要演员有必要分别扮演多个角色，他们在学习三四个不同的角色、快速进出各种服装以及管理舞台之外。这是对他们记忆力的极好的训练，是一种无害的娱乐，并且占用了许多时间，否则这些时间本来会是闲散、孤独或在利润较低的社会中度过的。

On christmas night, a dozen girls piled onto the bed which was the dress circle, and sat before the blue and yellow chintz curtains in a most flattering state of expectancy. There was a good deal of rustling and whispering behind the curtain, a trifle of lamp smoke, and an occasional giggle from Amy, who was apt to get hysterical in the excitement of the moment. Presently a bell sounded, the curtains flew apart, and the OPERATIC TRAGEDY began.
圣诞节之夜，十几个女孩挤在作为礼服圈的床上，坐在蓝色和黄色的印花棉布窗帘前，一副最讨人喜欢的期待状态。窗帘后面有很多沙沙声和窃窃私语声，还有一点点灯烟，艾米偶尔会咯咯地笑一声，她在这一刻的兴奋中很容易歇斯底里。不久钟声响起，幕布飞开，歌剧悲剧开始了。

‘A gloomy wood,’ according to the one playbill, was represented by a few shrubs in pots, green baize on the floor, and a cave in the distance. This cave was made with a clothes horse for a roof, bureaus for walls, and in it was a small furnace in full blast, with a black pot on it and an old witch bending over it. The stage was dark and the glow of the furnace had a fine effect, especially as real steam issued from the kettle when the witch took off the cover. A moment was allowed for the first thrill to subside, then Hugo, the villain, stalked in with a clanking sword at his side, a slouching hat, black beard, mysterious cloak, and the boots. After pacing to and fro in much agitation, he struck his forehead, and burst out in a wild strain, singing of his hatred to Roderigo, his love for Zara, and his pleasing resolution to kill the one and win the other. The gruff tones of Hugo’s voice, with an occasional shout when his feelings overcame him, were very impressive, and the audience applauded the moment he paused for breath. bowing with the air of one accustomed to public praise, he stole to the cavern and ordered Hagar to come forth with a commanding, ‘What ho, minion! I need thee!’
根据一份剧单，“一片阴暗的树林”由盆中的几株灌木、地板上的绿色粗呢布和远处的一个山洞来代表。这个山洞的屋顶是晒衣架，墙壁是柜子，里面有一个正在燃烧的小炉子，炉子上放着一个黑锅，一个老巫婆俯身在​​炉子上。舞台很暗，炉子的光辉效果很好，尤其是当女巫揭开盖子时，水壶里冒出真正的蒸汽。过了一会儿，最初的兴奋才平息下来，然后恶棍雨果大步走了进来，他身边挂着一把叮当作响的剑，戴着一顶低垂的帽子，留着黑胡子，穿着神秘的斗篷和靴子。激动地来回踱步后，他敲了敲额头，疯狂地爆发出来，唱出他对罗德里戈的仇恨，他对扎拉的爱，以及他杀死一个赢得另一个的令人愉快的决心。雨果的声音粗哑，情绪激动时偶尔会发出一声喊叫，令人印象深刻，当他停下来喘口气时，观众们鼓掌叫好。他以一种惯于接受公众赞扬的态度鞠了一躬，然后偷偷溜进山洞，命令夏甲出来，命令道：“嗬，奴才！”我需要你！

Out came Meg, with gray horsehair hanging about her face, a red and black robe, a staff, and cabalistic signs upon her cloak. Hugo demanded a potion to make Zara adore him, and one destroy Roderigo. Hagar, in a fine dramatic melody, promised both, and proceeded to call up the spirit who would bring the love philter.
梅格走了出来，灰色的马毛垂在脸上，穿着红黑相间的长袍，拿着一根手杖，斗篷上有神秘的标志。雨果需要一剂药剂来让扎拉崇拜他，而一剂可以摧毁罗德里戈。夏甲用优美的戏剧旋律答应了这两件事，并开始召唤带来爱情灵药的精灵。

Hither, hither, from thy home,
这里，这里，从你的家，

Airy sprite, I bid thee come!
空气精灵，我请你来！

Born of roses, fed on dew,
由玫瑰而生，以露水为食，

Charms and potions canst thou brew?
你能酿造咒语和药剂吗？

Bring me here, with elfin speed,
以精灵般的速度带我来这里，

The fragrant philter which I need.
我需要的芬芳的仙药。

Make it sweet and swift and strong,
让它变得甜美、迅速、有力，

Spirit, answer now my song!
精灵，现在回答我的歌吧！

A soft strain of music sounded, and then at the back of the cave appeared a little figure in cloudy white, with glittering wings, golden hair, and a garland of roses on its head. Waving a wand, it sang...
一阵轻柔的乐曲响起，随后山洞深处出现了一个浑身白色的小身影，翅膀闪闪发亮，金色的头发，头上戴着玫瑰花环。挥舞着魔杖，歌声响起……

Hither I come,
我来了，

From my airy home,
从我通风的家里，

Afar in the silver moon.
远方银月。

Take the magic spell,
采取魔法咒语，

And use it well,
并且用得好，

Or its power will vanish soon!
不然它的力量很快就会消失！

And dropping a small, gilded bottle at the witch’s feet, the spirit vanished. Another chant from Hagar produced another apparition, not a lovely one, for with a bang an ugly black imp appeared and, having croaked a reply, tossed a dark bottle at Hugo and disappeared with a mocking laugh. Having warbled his thanks and put the potions in his boots, Hugo departed, and Hagar informed the audience that as he had killed a few of her friends in times past, she had cursed him, and intends to thwart his plans, and be revenged on him. Then the curtain fell, and the audience reposed and ate candy while discussing the merits of the play.
然后把一个镀金的小瓶子扔到女巫脚边，幽灵就消失了。夏甲的另一声吟唱又出现了一个幽灵，但不是一个可爱的幽灵，因为一声巨响，一个丑陋的黑色小鬼出现了，用沙哑的声音回答后，向雨果扔了一个黑色的瓶子，然后带着嘲讽的笑声消失了。雨果道谢后，把药水放进靴子里，离开了，夏甲告诉观众，由于他过去杀了她的几个朋友，她诅咒了他，打算挫败他的计划，并向他报仇。他。随后大幕落下，观众们边休息边吃糖，讨论着这部剧的优点。

A good deal of hammering went on before the curtain rose again, but when it became evident what a masterpiece of stage carpentery had been got up, no one murmured at the delay. It was truly superb. A tower rose to the ceiling, halfway up appeared a window with a lamp burning in it, and behind the white curtain appeared Zara in a lovely blue and silver dress, waiting for Roderigo. He came in gorgeous array, with plumed cap, red cloak, chestnut lovelocks, a guitar, and the boots, of course. Kneeling at the foot of the tower, he sang a serenade in melting tones. Zara replied and, after a musical dialogue, consented to fly. Then came the grand effect of the play. Roderigo produced a rope ladder, with five steps to it, threw up one end, and invited Zara to descend. Timidly she crept from her lattice, put her hand on Roderigo’s shoulder, and was about to leap gracfully down when ‘Alas! Alas for Zara!’ she forgot her train. It caught in the window, the tower tottered, leaned forward, fell with a crash, and buried the unhappy lovers in the ruins.
在幕布再次升起之前，进行了大量的敲击工作，但是当人们清楚地看到舞台木工的杰作已经升起时，没有人对延误表示不满。真是太棒了。一座塔楼直达天花板，半空中出现了一扇窗户，里面燃着一盏灯，白色的窗帘后面出现了身穿蓝色和银色可爱连衣裙的扎拉，等待着罗德利哥。他穿着华丽的服装，戴着羽毛帽、红色斗篷、栗色爱情锁、一把吉他，当然还有靴子。他跪在塔脚下，用柔和的音调唱起了小夜曲。扎拉回复了我，并在一段音乐对话后同意乘坐飞机。接下来就是该剧的宏大效果了。罗德里戈拿出一个有五级台阶的绳梯，把一端抛起来，邀请扎拉下来。她胆怯地从格子里爬出来，把手搭在罗德利哥的肩膀上，正要优雅地跳下来，这时“唉！”唉，扎拉！”她忘记了她的火车。它卡在窗户上，塔摇摇欲坠，向前倾斜，轰然倒下，把不幸的恋人埋在废墟中。

A universal shriek arose as the russet boots waved wildly from the wreck and a golden head emerged, exclaiming, ‘I told you so! I told you so!’ With wonderful presence of mind, Don Pedro, the cruel sire, rushed in, dragged out his daughter, with a hasty aside...
黄褐色的靴子从残骸中疯狂地摆动，一个金色的头出现了，大声喊道：“我告诉过你了！”我早就告诉过你了！”残酷的父亲唐·佩德罗镇定自若地冲了进来，把他的女儿拖了出来，并急忙躲到一边……

‘Don’t laugh! Act as if it was all right!’ and, ordering Roderigo up, banished him form the kingdom with wrath and scorn. Though decidedly shaken by the fall from the tower upon him, Roderigo defied the old gentleman and refused to stir. This dauntless example fired Zara. She also defied her sire, and he ordered them both to the deepest dungeons of the castle. A stout little retainer came in with chains and led them away, looking very much frightened and evidently forgetting the speech he ought to have made.
‘别笑！表现得好像这没什么问题一样！”然后命令罗德利哥起来，带着愤怒和蔑视将他驱逐出王国。尽管从塔上摔下来压在身上，罗德利哥明显受到了震动，但他还是违抗了老绅士的命令，拒绝动弹。这个无畏的榜样解雇了扎拉。她也反抗了她的父亲，他命令他们俩去城堡最深处的地牢。一个粗壮的小家丁带着铁链进来，把他们带走了，看上去非常害怕，显然忘记了他应该说的话。

Act third was the castle hall, and here Hagar appeared, having come to free the lovers and finish Hugo. She hears him coming and hides, sees him put the potions into two cups of wine and bid the the timid little servant, ‘Bear them to the captives in their cells, and tell them I shall come anon.’ The servant takes Hugo aside to tell him something, and Hagar changes the cups for two others which are harmless. Ferdinando, the ‘minion’, carries them away, and Hagar puts back the cup which holds the poison meant for Roderigo. Hugo, getting thirsty after a long warble, drinks it, loses his wits, and after a good deal of clutching and stamping, falls flat and dies, while Hagar informs him what she has done in a song of exquisite power and melody.
第三幕是城堡大厅，夏甲出现在这里，她来解救这对恋人并杀死雨果。她听到他来了，就躲了起来，看到他把魔药放进两杯酒里，对胆怯的小仆人说：“把它们带到牢房里的俘虏那里，告诉他们我马上就来。”仆人把雨果拉到一边去。告诉他一些事，夏甲就换了另外两个无害的杯子。 “奴才”费迪南多把它们带走，夏甲把盛着罗德里戈毒药的杯子放回原处。雨果在长时间的吟唱后感到口渴，喝了它，失去了理智，经过多次抓握和跺脚后，倒地而死，而夏甲则用一首充满力量和旋律的歌曲告诉他她做了什么。

This was a truly thrilling scene, though some persons might have thought that the sudden tumbling down of a quantity of long red hair rather marred the effect of the villain’s death. He was called before the curtain, and with great propriety appeared, leading Hagar, whose singing was considered more wonderful than all the rest of the performance put together.
这确实是一个惊心动魄的场面，不过有些人可能会觉得，一头红色的长发突然掉落下来，反而影响了反派之死的效果。他被叫到幕前，并以非常恰当的方式出现，领衔的是夏甲，夏甲的歌声被认为比所有其他表演加起来还要美妙。

Act fourth displayed the despairing Roderigo on the point of stabbing himself because he has been told that Zara has deserted him. Just as the dagger is at his heart, a lovely song is sung under his window, informing him that Zara is true but in danger, and he can save her if he will. A key is thrown in, which unlocks the door, and in a spasm of rapture he tears off his chains and rushes away to find and rescue his lady love.
第四幕展示了绝望的罗德里戈差点刺伤自己，因为他被告知扎拉已经抛弃了他。正当匕首刺入他的心脏时，他的窗下响起了一首可爱的歌曲，告诉他扎拉是真实的，但正处于危险之中，如果他愿意，他可以救她。一把钥匙被扔进去，打开了门，在一阵狂喜中，他扯下锁链，冲出去寻找并营救他的爱人。

Act fifth opened with a stormy scene between Zara and Don Pedro. He wishes her to go into a convent, but she won’t hear of it, and after a touching appeal, is about to faint when Roderigo dashes in and demands her hand. Don Pedro refuses, because he is not rich. They shout and gesticulate tremendously but cannot agree, and Rodrigo is about to bear away the exhausted Zara, when the timid servant enters with a letter and a bag from Hagar, who has mysteriously disappeared. The latter informs the party that she bequeths untold wealth to the young pair and an awful doom to Don Pedro, if he doesn’t make them happy. The bag is opened, and several quarts of tin money shower down upon the stage till it is quite glorified with the glitter. This entirely softens the stern sire. He consents without a murmur, all join in a joyful chorus, and the curtain falls upon the lovers kneeling to receive Don Pedro’s blessing in attitudes of the most romantic grace.
第五幕以扎拉和唐·佩德罗之间的暴风雨场景开始。他希望她能去修道院，但她不肯听，在一次感人的恳求之后，罗德里戈快要晕倒了，罗德里戈冲了进来，向她伸出了手。唐·佩德罗拒绝了，因为他并不富有。他们大喊大叫，打着手势，但无法达成一致，罗德里戈正要带走疲惫不堪的扎拉，这时胆小的仆人带着夏甲的一封信和一个袋子进来，而夏甲却神秘失踪了。后者告诉大家，她给这对年轻夫妇留下了无数的财富，如果唐·佩德罗不能让他们幸福，他就会遭受可怕的厄运。袋子被打开，几夸脱的锡钱洒落在舞台上，直到舞台闪闪发光。这完全软化了严厉的陛下。他一声不吭地同意了，所有人都加入了欢乐的合唱，帷幕落下，情侣们跪下，以最浪漫优雅的态度接受唐·佩德罗的祝福。

Tumultuous applause followed but received an unexpected check, for the cot bed, on which the dress circle was built, suddenly shut up and extinguished the enthusiastic audience. Roderigo and Don Pedro flew to the rescue, and all were taken out unhurt, though many were speechless with laughter. the excitement had hardly subsided when Hannah appeared, with ‘Mrs. March’s compliments, and would the ladies walk down to supper.’
热烈的掌声随之而来，却意外地受到了抑制，因为搭建礼服圈的婴儿床突然闭嘴，浇灭了观众的热情。罗德里戈和唐·佩德罗飞去营救，所有人都安然无恙地被救了出来，尽管许多人笑得说不出话来。当汉娜带着“夫人”出现时，兴奋还没有平息。马奇的致意，请女士们下去吃晚饭。”

This was a surprise even to the actors, and when they saw the table, they looked at one another in rapturous amazement. It was like Marmee to get up a little treat for them, but anything so fine as this was unheard of since the departed days of plenty. There was ice cream, actually two dishes of it, pink and white, and cake and fruit and distracting french bonbons and, in the middle of the table, four great bouquets of hot house flowers.
这连演员们都感到惊讶，当他们看到桌子的时候，一个个面面相觑，目瞪口呆。妈妈为他们准备了一点款待，这就像妈妈一样，但自从丰裕的日子过去以来，像这样好的事情是闻所未闻的。有冰淇淋，实际上是两盘，粉红色和白色的，还有蛋糕、水果和令人分心的法式糖果，桌子中间还有四束温室鲜花。

It quite took their breath away, and they stared first at the table and then at their mother, who looked as if she enjoyed it immensely.
这让他们屏住了呼吸，他们先是盯着桌子，然后又看看他们的母亲，她看起来好像非常享受这一切。

‘Is it fairies?’ asked Amy.
“是仙女吗？”艾米问。

‘Santa Claus,’ said Beth.
“圣诞老人，”贝丝说。

‘Mother did it.’ And Meg smiled her sweetest, in spite of her gray beard and white eyebrows.
“是妈妈做的。”梅格露出了最甜美的笑容，尽管她的胡须灰白，眉毛也白了。

‘Aunt March had a good fit and sent the supper,’ cried Jo, with a sudden inspiration.
“马奇姨妈身体很好，送来了晚饭。”乔突然灵机一动，喊道。

‘All wrong. Old Mr. Laurence sent it,’ replied Mrs. March.
‘全错了。老劳伦斯先生寄来的，”马奇太太回答道。

‘The Laurence boy’s grandfather! What in the world put such a thing into his head? We don’t know him!’ exclaimed Meg.
“劳伦斯男孩的祖父！”到底是什么东西把这样的东西放进了他的脑子里？我们不认识他！”梅格惊呼道。

‘Hannah told one of his servants about your breakfast party. He is an odd old gentleman, but that pleased him. He knew my father years ago, and he sent me a polite note this afternoon, saying he hoped I would allow him to express his friendly feeling toward my children by sending them a few trifles in honor of the day. I could not refuse, and so you have a little feast at night to make up for the bread-and-milk breakfast.’
“汉娜向他的一位仆人讲述了你的早餐聚会。他是一位奇怪的老绅士，但这让他很高兴。他多年前就认识我的父亲，今天下午他给我发了一张礼貌的便条，说他希望我允许他送一些小东西来纪念这一天，以表达他对我的孩子们的友好之情。我无法拒绝，所以晚上你吃点小餐来弥补早餐的面包和牛奶。

‘That boy; put it into his head, I know he did! He’s a capital fellow, and I wish we could get acquainted. He looks as if he’d like to know us but he’s bashful, and Meg is so prim she won’t let me speak to him when we pass,’ said Jo, as the plates went round, and the ice began to melt out of sight, with ohs and ahs of satisfaction.
'那个男孩;把它放进他的脑子里，我知道他做到了！他是个很棒的人，我希望我们能认识一下。 “他看起来好像想认识我们，但他很害羞，而梅格又很拘谨，我们经过时她不让我和他说话。”乔说道，盘子转动着，冰开始融化。看到了，心满意足。

‘You mean the people who live in the big house next door, don’t you?’ asked one of the girls. ‘My mother knows old Mr. Laurence, but says he’s very proud and doesn’t like to mix with his neighbors. He keeps his grandson shut up, when he isn’t riding or walking with his tutor, and makes him study very hard. We invited him to our party, but he didn’t come. Mother says he’s very nice, though he never speaks to us girls.’
“你是指住在隔壁大房子里的人，不是吗？”其中一个女孩问道。 “我妈妈认识老劳伦斯先生，但说他很骄傲，不喜欢和邻居混在一起。当孙子不和导师一起骑马或散步时，他会让他闭嘴，并让他努力学习。我们邀请他参加我们的聚会，但他没有来。妈妈说他很好，尽管他从不跟我们女孩说话。”

‘Our cat ran away once, and he brought her back, and we talked over the fence, and were getting on capitally, all about cricket, and so on, when he saw Meg coming, and walked off. I mean to know him some day, for he needs fun, I’m sure he does,’ said Jo decidedly.
“我们的猫有一次逃跑了，他把她带了回来，我们隔着栅栏聊天，聊得很开心，都是关于板球之类的，当他看到梅格过来时，就走开了。我打算有一天认识他，因为他需要乐趣，我确信他需要乐趣。”乔斩钉截铁地说。

‘I like his manners, and he looks like a little gentleman, so I’ve no objection to your knowing him, if a proper opportunity comes. He brought the flowers himself, and I should have asked him in, if I had been sure what was going on upstairs. He looked so wistful as he went away, hearing the frolic and evidently having none of his own.’
‘我喜欢他的举止，而且他看起来像个小绅士，所以如果有合适的机会，我不反对你认识他。他亲自带来了花，如果我确定楼上发生了什么，我应该邀请他进来。当他离开时，他看起来非常渴望，听到嬉戏声，但显然没有他自己的。

‘It’s a mercy you didn’t , Mother!’ laughed Jo, looking at her boots. ‘But we’ll have another play sometime that he can see. Perhaps he’ll help act. Wouldn’t that be jolly?’
“幸好你没有这么做，妈妈！”乔看着她的靴子，笑着说。 “但我们会在某个时候他能看到另一场比赛。也许他会帮忙行动。那不是很高兴吗？

‘I never had such a fine bouquet before! How pretty it is!’ And Meg examined her flowers with great interest.
“我从来没有收到过这么好的花束！”多漂亮啊！”梅格饶有兴趣地审视着她的花。

‘They are lovely. But Beth’s roses are sweeter to me,’ said Mrs. March, smelling the half-dead posy in her belt.
‘他们很可爱。但贝丝的玫瑰对我来说更甜。”马奇太太一边说，一边闻着腰带上半死的花束。

Beth nestled up to her, and whispered softly, ‘I wish I could send my bunch to Father. I’m afraid he isn’t having such a merry Christmas as we are.’
贝丝依偎在她身边，轻声说道：“我希望我能把我的一堆东西送给父亲。”我担心他没有像我们一样度过一个快乐的圣诞节。

CHAPTER THREE
第三章

‘Jo! Jo! Where are you?’ cried Meg at the foot of the garret stairs.
‘乔！乔！ “你在哪儿？”梅格在阁楼楼梯脚下喊道。

‘Here!’ answered a husky voice from above, and, running up, Meg found her sister eating apples and crying over the Heir of Redclyffe, wrapped up in a comforter on an old three-legged sofa by the sunny window. This was Jo’s favorite refuge, and here she loved to retire with half a dozen russets and a nice book, to enjoy the quiet and the society of a pet rat who lived near by and didn’t mind her a particle. As Meg appeared, Scrabble whisked into his hole. Jo shook the tears off her cheeks and waited to hear the news.
“在这里！”一个沙哑的声音从上面传来，梅格跑上来，发现她的妹妹正在吃着苹果，为雷德克利夫的继承人哭泣，她裹着被子，躺在阳光明媚的窗边一张旧三腿沙发上。这是乔最喜欢的避难所，她喜欢在这里带着六件黄褐色衣服和一本好书退休，享受安静和与住在附近的宠物鼠的交往，它对她一点也不介意。当梅格出现时，拼字游戏迅速钻进了他的洞里。乔擦掉脸颊上的泪水，等待着消息。

‘Such fun! Only see! A regular note of invitation from Mrs. Gardiner for tomorrow night!’ cried Meg, waving the precious paper and then proceeding to read it with girlish delight.
'好好玩！只见！加德纳夫人定期发出邀请明晚的邀请函！”梅格挥舞着那张珍贵的纸喊道，然后带着少女般的喜悦读了起来。

‘Mrs. Gardiner would be happy to see Miss March and Miss Josephine at a little dance on New Year’s Eve.’ Marmee is willing we should go, now what shall we wear?’
'太太。加德纳很高兴在除夕夜的一场小型舞会上见到马奇小姐和约瑟芬小姐。“妈妈愿意我们去，现在我们该穿什么衣服呢？”

‘What’s the use of asking that, when you know we shall wear our poplins, because we haven’t got anything else?’ answered Jo with her mouth full.
“当你知道我们会穿府绸，因为我们没有别的东西时，问这个有什么用？”乔满嘴回答。

‘If I only had a silk!’ sighed Meg. ‘Mother says I may when I’m eighteen perhaps, but two years is an everlasting time to wait.’
“要是我有一条丝绸就好了！”梅格叹息道。 “妈妈说我也许十八岁的时候就可以，但是两年是一段永恒的等待时间。”

‘I’m sure our pops look like silk, and they are nice enough for us. Yours is as good as new, but I forgot the burn and the tear in mine. Whatever shall I do? The burn shows badly, and I can’t take any out.’
“我确信我们的持久性有机污染物看起来像丝绸，而且它们对我们来说已经足够好了。你的就像新的一样，但我忘记了我的烧伤和撕裂。我该怎么办？烧伤的情况很严重，我无法取出任何东西。”

‘You must sit still all you can and keep your back out of sight. The front is all right. I shall have a new ribbon for my hair, and Marmee will lend me her little pearl pin, and my new slippers are lovely, and my gloves will do, though they aren’t as nice as I’d like.’
‘你必须尽可能安静地坐着，不要让你的背部被人看见。前面一切都好。我会给我的头发配一条新丝带，妈妈会把她的小珍珠别针借给我，我的新拖鞋很可爱，我的手套也可以，尽管它们没有我想要的那么好。

‘Mine are spoiled with lemonade, and I can’t get any new ones, so I shall have to go without,’ said Jo, who never troubled herself much about dress.
“我的柠檬水都坏了，我买不到新的，所以我只能不用了，”乔说，她从不为着装烦恼。

‘You must have gloves, or I won’t go,’ cried Meg decidedly. ‘Gloves are more important than anything else. You can’t dance without them, and if you don’t I should be so mortified.’ ‘Then I’ll stay still. I don’t care much for company dancing. It’s no fun to go sailing round. I like to fly about and cut capers.’
“你必须戴上手套，否则我不会去，”梅格坚决地喊道。 “手套比什么都重要。没有它们你就不能跳舞，如果你不跳舞我会感到非常羞愧。”“那我就呆着不动。我不太喜欢公司跳舞。四处航行一点也不好玩。我喜欢飞来飞去，砍刺山柑。

‘You can’t ask Mother for new ones, they are so expensive, and you are so careless. She said when you spoiled the others that she shouldn’t get you any more this winter. Can’t you make them do?’
‘你不能向妈妈要新的，它们太贵了，而且你太粗心了。她说，当你把别人宠坏了之后，她这个冬天就不应该再得到你了。你不能让他们这么做吗？

‘I can hold them crumpled up in my hand, so no one will know how stained they are. That’s all I can do. No! I’ll tell you how we can manage, each wear one good one and carry a bad one. Don’t you see?’
“我可以把它们揉成一团放在手里，这样就没有人知道它们有多脏了。”我能做的就是这些。不！我会告诉你我们如何处理，每个人穿一件好衣服，携带一件坏衣服。你没看到吗？

‘Your hands are bigger than mine, and you will stretch my glove dreadfully,’ began Meg, whose gloves were a tender point with her.
“你的手比我的大，你会把我的手套拉得很厉害，”梅格开始说道，她的手套是她的痛处。

‘Then I’ll go without. I don’t care what people say!’ cried Jo, taking up her book.
‘那我就不用了。我不在乎别人怎么说！”乔拿起书喊道。

‘You may have it, you may! Only don’t stain it, and do behave nicely. Don’t put your hands behind you, or stare, or say ‘Christopher Columbus!’ will you?’
‘你可能会得到它，你可能会得到它！只是不要弄脏它，并且表现得很好。不要把手放在身后，或者盯着看，或者说‘克里斯托弗·哥伦布！’好吗？”

‘Don’t worry about me. I’ll be as prim ad I can and not get into any scrapes, if I can help it. Now go and answer your note, and let me finish this splendid story.’
‘别担心我。如果我能控制的话，我会尽可能保持正经，不会惹上任何麻烦。现在去回复你的留言，让我完成这个精彩的故事。

So Meg went away to ‘accept with thanks’, look over her dress, and sing blithely as she did up her one real lace frill, while Jo finished her story, her four apples, and had a game of romps with Scrabble.
于是，梅格走开，“带着谢意接受”，检查了一下她的裙子，一边快乐地唱歌，一边缝好一条真正的蕾丝褶边，而乔则讲完了她的故事，讲完了她的四个苹果，并玩了一场拼字游戏。

On New Year’s Eve the parlor was deserted, for the two younger girls played dressing maids and the two elder were absorbed in the all-important business of ‘getting ready for the party’. Simple as the toilets were, there was a great deal of running up and down, laughing and talking, and at one time a strong smell of burned hair pervaded the house. Meg wanted a few curls about her face, and Jo undertook to pinch the papered locks with a pair of hot tongs.
除夕夜，客厅里空无一人，两个小女孩扮演着穿衣女仆的角色，而两个大女孩则专注于“为聚会做准备”这一最重要的事情。尽管厕所很简单，但人们却经常跑来跑去，说说笑笑，屋子里一度弥漫着一股浓烈的头发烧焦的味道。梅格想要在脸上留一些卷发，乔则用一把热钳子夹住纸质的头发。

‘Ought they to smoke like that?’ asked Beth from her perch on the bed.
“他们应该这样抽烟吗？”贝丝坐在床上问道。

‘It’s the dampness drying,’ replied Jo.
“这是湿气干燥的原因，”乔回答道。

‘What a queer smell! It’s like burned feathers,’ observed Amy, smoothing her own pretty curls with a superior air.
‘多么奇怪的气味啊！就像烧焦的羽毛一样。”艾米说道，同时用一种优越的神态抚平自己漂亮的卷发。

‘There, now I’ll take off the papers and you’ll see a cloud of little ringlets,’ said Jo, putting down the tongs.
“好了，现在我把纸拿掉，你就会看到一团小卷发，”乔说着，放下了钳子。

She did take off the papers, but no cloud of ringlets appeared, for the hair came with the papers, and the horrified hairdresser laid a row of little scorched bundles on the bureau before her victim.
她确实把报纸拿下来了，但没有出现一团团卷发，因为头发和报纸一起来了，惊恐的理发师在受害者面前的梳妆台上放了一排烧焦的小捆。

‘Oh, oh, oh! What have you done? I’m spoiled! I can’t go! My hair, oh, my hair!’ wailed Meg, looking with despair at the uneven frizzle on her forehead.
'哦哦哦！你做了什么？我被宠坏了！我不能去！我的头发，哦，我的头发！”梅格哀嚎着，绝望地看着额头上参差不齐的卷发。

‘Just my luck! You shouldn’t have asked me to do it. I always spoil everything. I’m so sorry, but the tongs were too hot, and so I’ve made a mess,’ groaned poor Jo, regarding the little black pancakes with tears of regret.
'只是我的运气！你不应该要求我这么做。我总是破坏一切。我很抱歉，但是夹子太热了，所以我把事情弄得一团糟。”可怜的乔呻吟着，看着小黑煎饼，泪流满面。

‘It isn’t spoiled. Just frizzle it, and tie your ribbon so the ends come on your forehead a bit, and it will look like the last fashion. I’ve seen many girls do it so,’ said Amy consolingly.
‘它没有被损坏。只要把它卷起来，然后系上丝带，让丝带末端稍微贴在额头上，它就会看起来像最后的时尚。我见过很多女孩都这么做。”艾米安慰道。

‘Serves me right for trying to be fine. I wish I’d let my hair alone,’ cried Meg petulantly.
“我努力表现得很好，这对我来说是正确的。 “我真希望我的头发别乱动。”梅格脾气暴躁地喊道。

‘So do I, it was so smooth and pretty. But it will soon grow out again,’ said Beth, coming to kiss and comfort the shorn sheep.
“我也是，它是如此光滑和美丽。但它很快就会重新长出来。”贝丝说道，一边走过来亲吻并安慰被剪了毛的羊。

After various lesser mishaps, Meg was finished at last, and by the united exertions of the entire family Jo’s hair was got up and her dress on. They looked very well in their simple suits, Meg’s in silvery drab, with a blue velvet snood, lace frills, and the pearl pin. Jo in maroon, with a stiff, gentlemanly linen collar, and a white chrysanthemum or two for her only ornament. Each put on one nice light glove, and carried one soiled one, and all pronounced the effect ‘quite easy and fine”. Meg’s high-heeled slippers were very tight and hurt her, though she would not own it, and Jo’s nineteen hairpins all seemed stuck straight into her head, which was not exactly comfortable, but, dear me, let us be elegant or die.
经历了各种小事之后，梅格终于完成了，在全家人的共同努力下，乔的头发也竖起来了，衣服也穿好了。他们穿着简单的西装，看起来非常漂亮，梅格穿着银色的土褐色，戴着蓝色天鹅绒围脖、蕾丝褶边和珍珠别针。乔穿着栗色衣服，有着硬挺、绅士风度的亚麻衣领，一两朵白菊花是她唯一的装饰品。每个人都戴上一只漂亮的轻便手套，并携带一只脏兮兮的手套，所有人都宣称效果“非常简单又好”。梅格的高跟鞋很紧，很疼，虽然她不肯承认，而乔的十九个发夹似乎都直插在她的头上，这不太舒服，但是，亲爱的我，让我们优雅起来，否则就死了。

‘Have a good time, dearies!’ said Mrs. March, as the sisters went daintily down the walk. ‘Don’t eat much supper, and come away at eleven when I send Hannah for you.’ As the gate clashed behind them, a voice cried from a window...
“祝你玩得开心，亲爱的！”当姐妹们优雅地走在人行道上时，马奇太太说道。 “晚饭别吃太多，十一点就走，我派汉娜来接你。”当大门在他们身后撞上时，一个声音从窗户里传来……

‘Girls, girls! Have you you both got nice pocket handkerchiefs?’
‘姑娘们，姑娘们！你们都有漂亮的口袋手帕吗？

‘Yes, yes, spandy nice, and Meg has cologne on hers,’ cried Jo, adding with a laugh as they went on, ‘I do believe Marmee would ask that if we were all running away from an earthquake.
“是的，是的，斯潘迪很好，梅格身上还喷了古龙水，”乔喊道，一边笑着补充道，“我相信如果我们都在躲避地震的话，妈妈会问这个问题的。”

‘It is one of her aristocratic tastes, and quite proper, for a real lady is always known by neat boots, gloves, and handkerchief,’ replied Meg, who had a good many little ‘aristocratic tastes’ of her own.
“这是她的贵族品味之一，而且非常恰当，因为真正的女士总是以整洁的靴子、手套和手帕为人所知，”梅格回答道，她自己也有很多小小的“贵族品味”。

‘Now don’t forget to keep the bad breadth out of sight, Jo. Is my sash right? And does my hair look very bad?’ said Meg, as she turned from the glass in Mrs. Gardiner’s dressing room after a prolonged prink.
“现在，别忘了把坏宽度保持在看不见的地方，乔。我的腰带对吗？ “我的头发看起来很糟糕吗？”梅格在长时间的恶作剧之后从加德纳夫人更衣室的玻璃边转过身来说道。

‘I know I shall forget. If you see me doing anything wrong, just remind me by a wink, will you?’ returned Jo, giving her collar a twitch and her head a hasty brush.
‘我知道我会忘记。如果你看到我做错了什么，就眨眨眼提醒我，好吗？”乔回答道，她的衣领抽动了一下，她的头飞快地拂过。

‘No, winking isn’t ladylike. I’ll lift my eyebrows if any thing is wrong, and nod if you are all right. Now hold your shoulder straight, and take short steps, and don’t shake hands if you are introduced to anyone. It isn’t the thing.’
“不，眨眼不是淑女的表现。如果有什么问题我会扬起眉毛，如果你没事我会点头。现在挺直肩膀，小步走，如果有人把你介绍给任何人，不要握手。这不是问题。

‘How do you learn all the proper ways? I never can. Isn’t that music gay?’
‘你如何学习所有正确的方法？我永远不能。那音乐不是同性恋吗？

Down they went, feeling a trifle timid, for they seldom went to parties, and informal as this little gathering was, it was an event to them. Mrs. Gardiner, a stately old lady, greeted them kindly and handed them over to the eldest of her six daughters. Meg knew Sallie and was at her ease very soon, but Jo, who didn’t care much for girls or girlish gossip, stood about, with her back carefully against the wall, and felt as much out of place as a colt in a flower garden. Half a dozen jovial lads were talking about skates in another part of the room, and she longed to go and join them, for skating was one of the joys of her life. She telegraphed her wish to Meg, but the eyebrows went up so alarmingly that she dared not stir. No one came to talk to her, and one by one the group dwindled away till she was left alone. She could not roam about and amuse herself, for the burned breadth would show, so she stared at people rather forlornly till the dancing began. Meg was asked at once, and the tight slippers tripped about so briskly that none would have guessed the pain their wearer suffered smilingly. Jo saw a big red headed youth approaching her corner, and fearing he meant to engage her, she slipped into a curtained recess, intending to peep and enjoy herself in peace. Unfortunately, another bashful person had chosen the same refuge, for, as the curtain fell behind her, she found herself face to face with the ‘Laurence boy’.
他们下了楼，感到有点胆怯，因为他们很少参加聚会，尽管这个小聚会很非正式，但这对他们来说却是一件大事。加德纳夫人是一位庄严的老太太，她亲切地迎接了他们，并将他们交给了她六个女儿中的长女。梅格认识莎莉，很快就适应了她，但乔不太关心女孩或女孩子的八卦，她站在一旁，背小心地靠在墙上，感觉就像花中的小马驹一样格格不入。花园。房间的另一部分有六个快活的小伙子正在谈论滑冰，她渴望去加入他们，因为滑冰是她生活的乐趣之一。她向梅格表达了自己的愿望，但梅格的眉毛惊人地扬起，她不敢动弹。没有人过来和她说话，人群一一渐行渐远，只剩下她一个人。她无法四处闲逛自娱自乐，因为烧焦的宽度会显露出来，所以她相当凄凉地盯着人们，直到舞蹈开始。梅格立刻被问到，紧身拖鞋绊倒得如此轻快，没有人能猜到穿着者微笑着所承受的痛苦。乔看见一个红发大个子正朝她的角落走来，她担心他有意要和她交战，于是她溜进一个挂着帘子的凹处，打算偷看一下，安静地享受一下。不幸的是，另一个害羞的人也选择了同样的避难所，因为当幕布在她身后落下时，她发现自己与“劳伦斯男孩”面对面。

‘Dear me, I didn’t know anyone was here!’ stammered Jo, preparing to back out as speedily as she had bounced in.
“天哪，我不知道有人在这里！”乔结结巴巴地说，准备像她跳进来一样迅速退出。

But the boy laughed and said pleasantly, though he looked a little startled, ‘Don’t mind me, stay if you like.’
但男孩却笑了，虽然看上去有些吃惊，但还是愉快地说道：“别介意我，你愿意就留下来吧。”

‘Shan’t I disturb you?’
“我能不打扰你吗？”

‘Not a bit. I only came here because I don’t know many people and felt rather strange at first, you know.’
” “一点也没有。我来这里只是因为我认识的人不多，一开始感觉很奇怪，你知道。”

‘So did I. Don’t go away, please, unless you’d rather.’
“我也是。请不要走开，除非你愿意。”

The boy sat down again and looked at his pumps, till Jo said, trying to be polite and easy, ‘I think I’ve had the pleasure of seeing you before. You live near us, don’t you?’
男孩又坐下来，看着他的高跟鞋，直到乔尽量表现得礼貌而轻松地说，“我想我以前很高兴见到你。”你住在我们附近，不是吗？

‘Next door.’ And he looked up and laughed outright, for Jo’s prim manner was rather funny when he remembered how they had chatted about cricket when he brought the cat home.
“隔壁。”他抬起头，大笑起来，因为当他想起当他把猫带回家时他们如何谈论板球时，乔拘谨的态度相当有趣。

That put Jo at her ease and she laughed too, as she said, in her heartiest way, ‘We did have such a good time over your nice Christmas present.’
这让乔放松下来，她也笑了，她以最真诚的方式说道：“我们确实在你精美的圣诞礼物上度过了一段美好的时光。”

‘Grandpa sent it.’
“爷爷送来的。”

‘But you put it into his head, didn’t you, now?’
“但你现在已经把它放进了他的脑子里，不是吗？”

‘How is your cat, Miss March?’ asked the boy, trying to look sober while his black eyes shone with fun.
“你的猫怎么样了，马奇小姐？”男孩问道，试图让自己看起来很清醒，而他的黑眼睛却闪烁着有趣的光芒。

‘Nicely, thank you, Mr. Laurence. But I am not Miss March, I’m only Jo,’ returned the young lady.
“很好，谢谢你，劳伦斯先生。但我不是马奇小姐，我只是乔，”年轻女士回答道。

‘I’m not Mr. Laurence, I’m only Laurie.’
“我不是劳伦斯先生，我只是劳里。”

‘Laurie Laurence, what an odd name.’
“劳里·劳伦斯，多么奇怪的名字啊。”

‘My first name is theodore, but I don’t like it, for the fellows called me Dora, so I made the say Laurie instead.’
“我的名字是西奥多，但我不喜欢这个名字，因为大家都叫我多拉，所以我改叫劳里。”

‘I hate my name, too, so sentimental! I wish every one would say Jo instead of Josephine. How did you make the boys stop calling you Dora?’
“我也讨厌我的名字，太感伤了！”我希望每个人都说乔而不是约瑟芬。你是怎么让男孩们不再叫你朵拉的？

‘I thrashed ‘em.’
“我打败了他们。”

‘I can’t thrash Aunt March, so I suppose I shall have to bear it.’ And Jo resigned herself with a sigh.
“我不能打败马奇姨妈，所以我想我只能忍受了。”乔叹了口气，认命了。

‘Don’t you like to dance, Miss Jo?’ asked Laurie, looking as if he thought the name suited her.
“乔小姐，你不喜欢跳舞吗？”劳里问道，看上去好像觉得这个名字很适合她。

‘I like it well enough if there is plenty of room, and everyone is lively. In a place like this I’m sure to upset something, tread on people’s toes, or do something dreadful, so I keep out of mischief and let Meg sail about. Don’t you dance?’
“如果有足够的空间，而且每个人都很活跃，我就很喜欢它。在这样的地方，我肯定会惹恼什么，踩到别人的脚趾，或者做一些可怕的事情，所以我尽量避免恶作剧，让梅格到处走走。你不跳舞吗？

‘Sometimes. You see I’ve been abroad a good many years, and haven’t been into company enough yet to know how you do things here.’
'有时。你看，我已经在国外呆了很多年了，但还没有足够深入地了解公司在这里是如何做事的。

‘Abroad!.’ cried Jo. ‘Oh, tell me about it! I love dearly to hear people describe their travels.’
“在国外！”乔喊道。 ‘噢，告诉我吧！我非常喜欢听到人们描述他们的旅行。

Laurie didn’t seem to know where to begin, but Jo’s eager questions soon set him going, and he told her how he had been at school in Vevay, where the boys never wore hats and had a fleet of boats on the lake, and for holiday fun went on walking trips about Switzerland with their teachers.
劳里似乎不知道从哪里开始，但乔急切的问题很快就让他开始了，他告诉她他是如何在韦韦上学的，那里的男孩们从不戴帽子，湖上有一支船队，为了假期的乐趣，他们和老师一起徒步游览瑞士。

‘Don’t I wish I’d been there!’ cried Jo. ‘Did you go to Paris?’
“我不希望我也在场吗！”乔喊道。 “你去巴黎了吗？”

‘We spent last winter there.’
“去年冬天我们在那里度过的。”

‘Can you talk French?’
“你会说法语吗？”

‘We were not allowed to speak anything else at Vevay.’
“我们不被允许在韦韦说任何其他话。”

‘Do say some! I can read it, but can’t pronounce.’
‘你说一些吧！我能读懂，但不会发音。”

‘Quel nom a cetter jeune demoiselle en les pantoulles jolis?’
“Quel nom a cetter jeune demoiselle en les pantoulles jolis?”

‘How nicely you do it! Let me see...you said, ‘Who is the young lady in the pretty slippers’, didn’t you?’
‘你做得多么好啊！让我想想……你说‘那个穿漂亮拖鞋的年轻女士是谁’，是吗？”

‘Oui, mademoiselle.’
“哎呀，小姐。”

‘It’s my sister Margaret, and you knew it was! Do you think she is pretty?’
“这是我妹妹玛格丽特，你知道的！”你觉得她漂亮吗？

‘Yes, she makes me think of the German girls, she looks so fresh and quiet, and dances like a lady.’
“是的，她让我想起了德国女孩，她看起来那么清新、安静，跳舞就像一位女士。”

Jo quite glowed with pleasure at this boyish praise of her sister, and stored it up to repeat to Meg. Both peeped and critisized and chatted till they felt like old acquaintances. Laurie’s bashfulness soon wore off, for Jo’s gentlemanly demeanor amused and set him at his ease, and Jo was her merry self again, because her dress was forgotten and nobody lifted their eyebrows at her. She liked the ‘Laurence boy’ better than ever and took several good looks at him, so that she might describe him to the girls, for they had no brothers, very few male cousins, and boys were almost unknown creatures to them.
乔对她妹妹的这种孩子气的赞美感到非常高兴，并把这句话储存起来向梅格重复。两人一边偷看、一边批评、一边聊天，直到感觉像老熟人一样。劳里的羞涩很快就消失了，因为乔的绅士风度让他感到有趣，让他感到轻松，而乔又恢复了快乐的自我，因为她的衣服被遗忘了，没有人对她扬起眉毛。她比以往任何时候都更喜欢这个“劳伦斯男孩”，并仔细地看了他好几眼，以便她可以向女孩们描述他，因为她们没有兄弟，表兄弟也很少，男孩对她们来说几乎是陌生的生物。

‘Curly black hair, brown skin, big black eyes, handsome nose, fine teeth, small hands and feet, taller than I am, very polite, for a boy, and altogether jolly. Wonder how old he is?’
“黑色的卷发，棕色的皮肤，黑色的大眼睛，漂亮的鼻子，漂亮的牙齿，小手小脚，比我高，非常有礼貌，对于一个男孩来说，而且非常快乐。想知道他多大了？

It was on the tip of Jo’s tongue to ask, but she checked herself in time and, with unusual tact, tried to find out in a round-about way.
乔的问题就在嘴边，但她及时克制住了自己，并以不同寻常的机智试图以迂回的方式找出答案。

‘I suppose you are going to college soon? I see you pegging away at your books, no, I mean studying hard.’ And Jo blushed at the dreadful ‘pegging’ which had escaped her.
“我猜你很快就要上大学了？我看到你盯着书本，不，我是说努力学习。”乔因为没有意识到那可怕的“盯着”而脸红了。

Laurie smiled but didn’t seem shocked, and answered with a shrug. ‘Not for a year or two. I won’t go before seventeen, anyway.’
劳里微笑着，但似乎并不惊讶，耸耸肩回答道。 “一两年都不会。无论如何，我十七岁之前不会去。

‘Aren’t you but fifteen?’ asked Jo, looking at the tall lad, whom she had imagined seventeen already.
“你不是才十五岁吗？”乔看着那个高个子小伙子问道，她想象中的他已经十七岁了。

‘Sixteen, next month.’
“下个月，十六岁。”

‘How I wish I was going to college! You don’t look as if you liked it.’
‘我多么希望能上大学啊！你看起来并不喜欢它。

‘I hate it! Nothing but grinding or skylarking. And I don’t like the way fellows do either, in this country.’ ‘What do you like?’
'我恨它！除了磨磨或嬉戏之外什么也没有。 “我也不喜欢这个国家的人们的做法。”“你喜欢什么？”

‘To live in Italy, and to enjoy myself in my own way.’
“住在意大利，以我自己的方式享受生活。”

Jo wanted very much to ask what his own way was, but his black brows looked rather threatening as he knit them, so she changed the subject by saying, as her foot kept time, ‘That’s a splendid polka! Why don’t you go and try it?’
乔很想问他自己的方式是什么，但他编织的黑眉毛看起来颇具威胁性，于是她转移话题，一边用脚跟好，一边说：“那是一首美妙的波尔卡舞！”你为什么不去尝试一下呢？

‘If you will come too,’ he answered, with a gallant little bow.
“如果你也来的话，”他回答道，并礼貌地微微鞠了一躬。

‘I can’t, for I told meg I wouldn’t, because...’ There Jo stopped, and looked undecided whether to tell or to laugh.
“我不能，因为我告诉过梅格我不会，因为……”乔停了下来，看上去犹豫不决是该说还是笑。

‘Because, what?’
'因为什么？'

‘You won’t tell?’
“你不肯说吗？”

‘Never!’
'绝不！'

‘Well, I have a bad trick of standing before the fire, and so I burn my frocks, and I scorched this one, and though it’s nicely mended, it shows, and Meg told me to keep still so no one would see it. You may laugh, if you want to. It is funny, I know.’
“好吧，我有一个糟糕的技巧，就是站在火前，所以我烧了我的连衣裙，我烧焦了这一件，虽然它修补得很好，但它还是显示出来了，梅格告诉我保持不动，这样没人会看到它。如果你愿意的话，你可以笑。我知道这很有趣。

But Laurie didn’t laugh. He only looked dawn a minute, and the expression of his face puzzled Jo when he said very gently, ‘Never mind that. I’ll tell you how we can manage. There’s a long hall out there, and we can dance grandly, and no one will see us. Please come.’
但劳里没有笑。他只看了一会儿黎明，当他非常温柔地说：“别介意这个”时，他脸上的表情让乔感到困惑。我会告诉你我们如何应对。外面有一个长长的大厅，我们可以华丽地跳舞，没有人会看到我们。请过来。'

Jo thanked him and gladly went, wishing she had two neat gloves when she saw the nice, pearl-colored ones her partner wore. The hall was empty, and they had a grand polka, for Laurie danced well, and taught her the German step, which delighted Jo, being full of swing and spring. When the music stopped, they sat down on the stairs to get their breath, and Laurie was in the midst of an account of a students’ festival at Heidelberg when Meg appeared in search of her sister. She beckoned, and Jo reluctantly followed her into a side room, where she found her on a sofa, holding her foot, and looking pale.
乔感谢了他，高兴地走了，当她看到她的伴侣戴着漂亮的珍珠色手套时，她希望自己有两只干净的手套。大厅里空无一人，他们跳了一首盛大的波尔卡舞，因为劳里跳得很好，还教她德国舞步，这让乔很高兴，充满了摇摆和春天。音乐停止后，他们坐在楼梯上喘口气，劳里正在记录海德堡的学生节，这时梅格出现寻找她的妹妹。她招手，乔不情愿地跟着她走进一间侧屋，发现她坐在沙发上，捂着脚，脸色苍白。

‘I’ve sprained my ankle. That stupid high heel turned and gave me a sad wrench. It aches so, I can hardly stand, and I don’t know how I’m ever going to get home,’ she said, rocking to and fro in pain.
‘我扭伤了脚踝。那愚蠢的高跟鞋一转，给了我一个悲伤的扳手。太疼了，我几乎无法站立，而且我不知道如何才能回家。”她痛苦地摇晃着身体说道。

‘I knew you’d hurt your feet with those silly shoes. I’m sorry. But I don’t see what you can do, except get a carriage, or stay here all night,’ answered Jo, softly rubbing the poor ankle as she spoke.
“我知道你穿那些愚蠢的鞋子会伤到你的脚。对不起。但我不知道你能做什么，除了买辆马车，或者整夜留在这里，”乔回答道，一边说话一边轻轻地揉着可怜的脚踝。

‘I can’t have a carriage without its costing ever so much. I dare say I can’t get one at all, for most people come in their own, and it’s a long way to the stable, and no one to send.’ ‘I’ll go.’
“如果不花那么多钱，我就买不到一辆马车。我敢说我根本买不到，因为大多数人都是自己来的，而且距离马厩还有很远的路，而且没有人可以派。”“我去。

‘No, indeed! It’s past nine, and dark as Egypt. I can’t stop here, for the house is full. Sallie has some girls staying with her. I’ll rest till Hannah comes, and then do the best I can.’
‘不，确实如此！已经九点多了，天色黑得像埃及一样。我不能在这里停留，因为房子已经满了。莎莉有一些女孩和她住在一起。我会休息直到汉娜来，然后尽我所能。

‘I’ll ask Laurie. He will go,’ said Jo,’ looking relieved as the idea occurred to her.
“我去问问劳里。他会走的，”乔说，“当她想到这个主意时，她看上去松了口气。

‘Mercy, no! Don’t ask or tell anyone. Get me my rubbers, and put these slippers with our things. I can’t dance anymore, but as soon as supper is over, watch for Hannah and tell me the minute she comes.’
‘慈悲，不！不要询问或告诉任何人。给我拿我的橡胶鞋，把这些拖鞋和我们的东西放在一起。我不能再跳舞了，但晚饭一结束，你就留意汉娜，她一来就告诉我。”

‘They are going out to supper now. I’ll stay with you. I’d rather.’
‘他们现在要出去吃晚饭。我会和你在一起。我宁愿。'

‘No, dear, run along, and bring me some coffee. I’m so tired I can’t stir.’
“不，亲爱的，快跑吧，给我拿点咖啡来。”我太累了，动弹不得。

So Meg reclined, with rubbers well hidden, and Jo went blundering away to the dining room, which she found after going into a china closet, and opening the door of a room where old Mr. Gardiner was taking a little private refreshment. Making a dart at the table, she secured the coffee, which she immediately spilled, thereby making the front of her dress as bad as the back.
于是梅格躺了下来，把橡胶藏得很好，乔跌跌撞撞地走进了餐厅，她走进一个瓷器壁橱后发现了餐厅，打开了一个房间的门，老加德纳先生正在那里吃点私人茶点。她冲向桌子，抢到了咖啡，但咖啡立刻洒了出来，导致她衣服的正面和背面一样糟糕。

‘Oh, dear, what a blunderbuss I am!’ exclaimed Jo, finishing Meg’s glove by scrubbing her gown with it.
“哦，天哪，我真是个大笨蛋！”乔一边喊道，一边用它擦洗梅格的礼服，擦完她的手套。

‘Can I help you?’ said a friendly voice. And there was Laurie, with a full cup in one hand and a plate of ice in the other.
“我可以帮你吗？”一个友好的声音说道。劳里也在那儿，一手端着满满的杯子，另一只手端着一盘冰。

‘I was trying to get something for Meg, who is very tired, and someone shook me, and here I am in a nice state,’ answered Jo, glancing dismally from the stained skirt to the coffee-colored glove.
“我正想给梅格买点东西，她很累了，有人摇晃了我，现在我的状态很好，”乔回答道，沮丧地从污迹斑斑的裙子到咖啡色的手套。

‘Too bad! I was looking for someone to give this to. May I take it to your sister?’
'太糟糕了！我正在找人把这个交给我。我可以把它送给你姐姐吗？

‘Oh, thank you! I’ll show you where she is. I don’t offer to take it myself, for I should only get into another scrape if I did.’
'哦谢谢！我会告诉你她在哪里。我不会主动提出自己去接受，因为如果我这样做的话，我只会陷入另一场困境。

Jo led the way, and as if used to waiting on ladies, Laurie drew up a little table, brought a second installment of coffee and ice for Jo, and was so obliging that even particular Meg pronounced him a ‘nice boy’. They had a merry time over the bonbons and mottoes, and were in the midst of a quiet game of BUZZ, with two or three other young people who had strayed in, when Hannah appeared. Meg forgot her foot and rose so quickly that she was forced to catch hold of Jo, with an exclamation of pain.
乔在前面带路，劳里仿佛习惯了侍候女士，他摆了一张小桌子，为乔送来了第二份咖啡和冰块，而且非常殷勤，甚至连梅格都称赞他是一个“好男孩”。他们一边吃着糖果，一边吃着座右铭，玩得很开心，正和另外两三个误入歧途的年轻人一起安静地玩“嗡嗡”游戏，这时汉娜出现了。梅格忘记了她的脚，站得如此之快，以至于她不得不抓住乔，痛苦地喊了一声。

‘Hush! Don’t say anything,’ she whispered, adding aloud, ‘It’s nothing. I turned my foot a little, that’s all,’ and limped upstairs to put her things on. Hannah scolded, Meg cried, and Jo was at her wits’ end, till se decided to take things into her own hands. Slipping out, she ran down and, finding a servant, asked if he could get her a carriage. It happened to be a hired waiter who knew nothing about the neighborhood and Jo was looking round for help when Laurie, who had heard what she said, came up and offered his grandfather’s carriage, which had just come for him, he said.
‘嘘！什么都别说，”她低声说道，然后大声补充道，“没什么。我稍微转动了一下脚，仅此而已。”然后一瘸一拐地上楼给她穿上衣服。汉娜责骂，梅格哭泣，乔束手无策，直到她决定亲自处理事情。她溜出去，跑下来找到一个仆人，问他是否可以给她一辆马车。乔说，碰巧是一名雇来的服务员，对附近的情况一无所知，乔正在四处寻找帮助，这时劳里听到了她的话，走过来并提供了他祖父刚刚来接他的马车，他说。

‘It’s so early! You can’t mean to go yet?’ began Jo. looking relieved but hesitating to accept the offer.
‘这么早啊！你还不想走吗？”乔开始说道。看起来松了口气，但犹豫着是否接受这个提议。

‘I always go early, I do, truly! Please let me take you home. It’s all on my way, you know, and it rains, they say.’
“我总是早点去，真的，真的！请让我带你回家。你知道，一切都在我的路上，而且下雨了，他们说。

That settled it, and telling him of Meg’s mishap, Jo gratefully accepted and rushed up to bring down the rest of the party. Hannah hated rain as much as a cat does so she made no trouble, and they rolled away in the luxurious close carriage, feeling very festive and elegant. Laurie went on the box so Meg could keep her foot up, and the girls talked over their party in freedom.
事情就这样解决了，乔告诉了他梅格的不幸遭遇，乔感激地接受了，并冲上去打倒了队伍的其他人。汉娜像猫一样讨厌下雨，所以她没有闹，他们在豪华的密车厢里滚滚而去，感觉非常喜庆和优雅。劳里走到包厢里，这样梅格就可以站起来，女孩们自由地谈论她们的聚会。

‘I had a capital time. Did you?’ asked Jo, rumpling up her hair, and making herself comfortable.
“我度过了一段美好的时光。你是吗？”乔问道，一边揉乱头发，让自己舒服一些。

‘Yes, till I hurt myself. Sallie’s friend, Annie Moffat, took a fancy to me, and asked me to come and spend a week with her when Sallie does. She is going in the spring when the opera comes, and it will be perfectly splendid, if Mother only lets me go,’ answered Meg, cheering up at the thought.
“是的，直到我伤害了自己。莎莉的朋友安妮·莫法特看中了我，并邀请我在莎莉来的时候去和她一起度过一个星期。她会在春天歌剧演出的时候去，如果妈妈让我走的话，那就太棒了。”梅格回答道，一想到这个，她就高兴起来。

‘I saw you dancing with the red headed man I ran away from. Was he nice?’
“我看到你和我逃离的那个红发男人跳舞。他很好吗？

‘Oh. very! His hair is auburn, not red, and he was very polite, and I had a delicious redowa with him.’
'哦。非常！他的头发是赤褐色的，不是红色的，他很有礼貌，我和他一起吃了一顿美味的雷多瓦酒。

‘He looked like a grasshopper in a fit when he did the new step. Laurie and I couldn’t help laughing. Did you hear us?’
“当他迈出新的一步时，他看起来就像一只突然发作的蚱蜢。劳里和我忍不住笑了。你听到我们说话了吗？

‘No, but it was very rude. What were you about all that time, hidden away there?’
“不，但是这太粗鲁了。你那段时间躲在那里到底想干什么？

Jo told her adventures, and by the time she had finished they were at home. With many thanks, they said good night and crept in, hoping to disturb no one, but the instant their door creaked, two little nightcaps bobbed up, and two sleepy but eager voices cried out...
乔讲述了她的冒险经历，当她讲完时，他们已经到家了。千恩万谢后，他们道了晚安，蹑手蹑脚地走了进去，希望不要打扰任何人，但就在他们的门吱吱作响的那一刻，两颗小睡帽跳了起来，两个睡眼惺忪却热切的声音喊了起来……

‘Tell about the party! Tell about the party!’
‘说说聚会的事吧！说说聚会的事吧！

With what Meg called ‘a great want of manners’ Jo had saved some bonbons for the little girls, and they soon subsided, after hearing the most thrilling events of the evening.
乔用梅格所说的“非常缺乏礼貌”为小女孩们留了一些糖果，在听到当晚最激动人心的事件后，她们很快就平静下来了。

‘I declare, it really seems like being a fine young lady, to come home from the party in a carriage and sit in my dressing gown wit a maid to wait on me,’ said Meg, as Jo bound up her foot with arnica and brushed her hair.
“我敢说，从派对上乘马车回家，穿着晨衣，有女仆伺候我，这真的就像是一位优秀的年轻女士，”梅格说，乔用山金车包扎了她的脚，梳理她的头发。

‘I don’t believe fine young ladies enjoy themselves a bit more than we do, in spite of our burned hair, old gowns, one glove apiece and tight slippers that sprain our ankles when we are silly enough to wear them,’ And I think Jo was quite right.
“我不相信漂亮的年轻女士比我们更享受，尽管我们烧焦的头发，旧礼服，每人一只手套，当我们愚蠢地穿紧身拖鞋时，会扭伤我们的脚踝，”我认为乔说得很对。

Chapter 4
第4章

‘Oh, dear, how hard it does seem to take up our packs and go on,’ sighed Meg the morning after the party, for now the holidays were over, the week of merrymaking did not fit her for going on easily with the task she never liked.
“哦，亲爱的，背起行囊继续前行似乎是多么困难啊，”派对结束后的第二天早上，梅格叹了口气，因为现在假期已经结束了，欢乐的一周并不适合她轻松地完成这项任务。她从来不喜欢。

‘I wish it was Christmas or New Year’s all the time. Wouldn’t it be fun?’ answered Jo, yawning dismally.
“我希望一直都是圣诞节或新年。这不是很有趣吗？”乔沮丧地打着哈欠回答道。

‘We shouldn’t enjoy ourselves half so much as we do now. But it does seem so nice to have little suppers and bouquets, and go to parties, and drive home, and read and rest, and not work. It’s like other people, you know, and I always envy girls who do such things, I’m so fond of luxury,’ said Meg, trying to decide which of two shabby gowns was the least shabby.
‘我们不应该像现在一样享受生活。但吃点晚餐和花束，参加聚会，开车回家，读书和休息，而不是工作，似乎确实很美好。就像其他人一样，你知道，我总是羡慕做这种事的女孩，我太喜欢奢侈了，”梅格说，试图决定两件破旧的礼服中哪一件最不破旧。

‘Well, we can’t have it, so don’t let us grumble but shoulder our bundles and trudge along as cheerfully as Marmee does. I’m sure Aunt March is a regular Old Man of the Sea to me, but I suppose when I’ve learned to carry her without complaining, she will tumble off, or get so light that I shan’t mind her.’
“好吧，我们不能拥有它，所以不要让我们抱怨，而是像妈妈一样高高兴兴地扛起我们的包袱，艰难地前行。我确信马奇阿姨对我来说是一个普通的海洋老人，但我想当我学会毫无怨言地抱着她时，她会摔下来，或者变得很轻，我不会介意她。

This idea tickled Jo’s fancy and put her in good spirits, but Meg didn’t brighten, for her burden, consisting of four spoiled children, seemed heavier than ever. She had not heart enough even to make herself pretty as usual by putting on a blue neck ribbon and dressing her hair in the most becoming way.
这个想法激发了乔的兴趣，让她心情愉悦，但梅格却没有高兴起来，因为四个被宠坏的孩子的负担似乎比以往任何时候都更重。她甚至没有心思像往常一样把自己打扮得漂漂亮亮，系上一条蓝色的领带，把头发梳得最得体。

‘Where’s the use of looking nice, when no one sees me but those cross midgets, and no one cares whether I’m pretty or not?’ she muttered, shutting her drawer with a jerk. ‘I shall have to toil and moil all my days, with only little bits of fun now and then, and get old and ugly and sour, because I’m poor and can’t enjoy my life as other girls do. It’s a shame!’
“除了那些脾气暴躁的侏儒之外，没有人看到我，也没有人在乎我漂亮不漂亮，我看起来漂亮又有什么用呢？”她嘟哝着，猛地关上了抽屉。 “我将不得不终日辛苦劳作，时不时地享受一点乐趣，然后变得又老又丑又酸，因为我很穷，无法像其他女孩那样享受生活。”这是一个耻辱！'

So Meg went down, wearing an injured look, and wasn’t at all agreeable at breakfast time. Everyone seemed rather out of sorts and inclined to croak.
于是梅格就倒下了，一脸受伤的样子，吃早餐的时候一点也不舒服。每个人看上去都心情不太好，总是发出嘎嘎声。

Beth had a headache and lay on the sofa, trying to comfort herself with the cat and three kittens. Amy was fretting because her lessons were not learned, and she couldn’t find her rubbers. Jo would whistle and make a great racket getting ready.
贝丝头疼，躺在沙发上，试图用那只猫和三只小猫来安慰自己。艾米很烦恼，因为她没有吸取教训，而且她找不到橡皮。乔会吹口哨，大声喧哗，做好准备。

Mrs. March was very busy trying to finish a letter, which must go at once, and Hannah had the grumps, for being up late didn’t suit her.
马奇太太正忙着写完一封必须立即寄出的信，而汉娜则脾气暴躁，因为熬夜不适合她。

‘There never was such a cross family!’ cried Jo, losing her temper when she had upset an inkstand, broken both boot lacings, and sat down upon her hat.
“从来没有这样一个脾气暴躁的家庭！”乔打翻了一个墨水瓶，弄断了两条靴子带子，然后坐在帽子上，她大发脾气。

‘You’re the crossest person in it!’ returned Amy, washing out the sum that was all wrong with the tears that had fallen on her slate.
“你是这里面最生气的人！”艾米回答道，用滴在石板上的泪水洗掉了所有错误的金额。

‘Beth, if you don’t keep these horrid cats down cellar I’ll have them drowned,’ exclaimed Meg angrily as she tried to get rid of the kitten which had scrambled up her back and stuck like a burr just out of reach.
“贝丝，如果你不把这些可怕的猫放在地窖里，我就把它们淹死。”梅格愤怒地喊道，她试图摆脱那只爬上她背的小猫，它像毛刺一样卡在够不着的地方。

Jo laughed, Meg scolded, Beth implored, and Amy wailed because she couldn’t remember how much nine times twelve was.
乔笑了，梅格责骂了，贝丝哀求了，艾米哭了，因为她不记得九乘以十二有多少。

‘Girls, girls, do be quiet one minute! I must get this off by the early mail, and you drive me distracted with your worry,’ cried Mrs. March, crossing out the third spoiled sentence in her letter.
‘女孩们，女孩们，请安静一分钟！ “我必须尽快把这封信寄出去，你的担心让我心烦意乱，”马奇太太喊道，划掉了信中第三句被破坏的句子。

There was a momentary lull, broken by Hannah, who stalked in, laid two hot turnovers on the table, and stalked out again. These turnovers were an institution, and the girls called them ‘muffs’, for they had no others and found the hot pies very comforting to their hands on cold mornings.
汉娜打破了短暂的平静，她大步走进来，在桌子上放了两个热门失误，然后又大步走出去。这些翻转是一种制度，女孩们称它们为“muffs”，因为她们没有其他的，而且发现在寒冷的早晨，热馅饼对她们的手来说非常舒适。

Hannah never forgot to make them, no matter how busy or grumpy she might be, for the walk was long and bleak. The poor things got no other lunch and were seldom home before two.
汉娜永远不会忘记做它们，无论她多么忙碌或脾气暴躁，因为步行是漫长而凄凉的。这些可怜的东西没有其他午餐，而且很少在两点之前回家。

‘Cuddle your cats and get over your headache, Bethy. Goodbye, Marmee. We are a set of rascals this morning, but we’ll come home regular angels. Now then, Meg!’ And Jo tramped away, feeling that the pilgrims were not setting out as they ought to do.
“贝西，抱抱你的猫，克服你的头痛。”再见，妈妈。今天早上我们是一群无赖，但回家后我们会像普通天使一样。现在，梅格！”乔大步走开，觉得朝圣者们没有按照他们应该做的那样出发。

They always looked back before turning the corner, for their mother was always at the window to nod and smile, and wave her hand to them. Somehow it seemed as if they couldn’t have got through the day without that, for whatever their mood might be, the last glimpse of that motherly face was sure to affect them like sunshine.
他们在拐过街角之前总是回头看一眼，因为他们的母亲总是在窗边点头微笑，并向他们挥手。不知怎的，如果没有这张脸，他们似乎就无法度过这一天，因为无论他们的心情如何，最后一眼看到那张母亲的脸肯定会像阳光一样影响他们。

‘If Marmee shook her fist instead of kissing her hand to us, it would serve us right, for more ungrateful wretches than we are were never seen,’ cried Jo, taking a remorseful satisfaction in the snowy walk and bitter wind. ‘Don’t use such dreadful expressions,’ replied Meg from the depths of the veil in which she had shrouded herself like a nun sick of the world.
“如果妈妈向我们握拳而不是亲吻她的手，那我们就活该了，因为从来没有见过比我们更忘恩负义的可怜虫。”乔喊道，在雪天行走和凛冽的寒风中感到一种悔恨的满足。 “别用这么可怕的表情，”梅格从面纱深处回答道，她像一个厌倦了这个世界的修女一样把自己裹在面纱里。

‘I like good strong words that mean something,’ replied Jo, catching her hat as it took a leap off her head preparatory to flying away altogether.
“我喜欢有意义的、有力的话语，”乔回答道，当帽子从她头上跳下来准备完全飞走时，她接住了帽子。

‘Call yourself any names you like, but I am neither a rascal nor a wretch and I don’t choose to be called so.’
“你喜欢怎么称呼自己就怎么称呼自己，但我既不是流氓也不是坏蛋，我也不愿意别人这样称呼我。”

‘You’re a blighted being, and decidedly cross today because you can’t sit in the lap of luxury all the time. Poor dear, just wait till I make my fortune, and you shall revel in carriages and ice cream and high-heeled slippers, and posies, and red-headed boys to dance with.’
“你是一个不幸的人，今天肯定会生气，因为你不能一直坐在奢华的怀里。可怜的亲爱的，等我发财了，你就会陶醉于马车、冰淇淋、高跟鞋、花束、和红发男孩一起跳舞。

‘How ridiculous you are, Jo!’ But Meg laughed at the nonsense and felt better in spite of herself.
“你真可笑，乔！”但梅格对这些胡言乱语大笑起来，不由自主地感觉好多了。

‘Lucky for you I am, for if I put on crushed airs and tried to be dismal, as you do, we should be in a nice state. Thank goodness, I can always find something funny to keep me up. Don’t croak any more, but come home jolly, there’s a dear.’
“我对你来说很幸运，因为如果我像你一样表现出沮丧的样子并试图表现出沮丧，我们应该处于一个很好的状态。谢天谢地，我总能找到一些有趣的事情来让我继续下去。别再发牢骚了，快快乐乐地回家吧，亲爱的。”

Jo gave her sister an encouraging pat on the shoulder as they parted for the day, each going a different way, each hugging her little warm turnover, and each trying to be cheerful in spite of wintry weather, hard work, and the unsatisfied desires of pleasure-loving youth.
当他们告别这一天时，乔拍了拍姐姐的肩膀，鼓励她，两人走着不同的路，拥抱着她温暖的小翻身，尽管寒冷的天气、辛苦的工作和未满足的欲望，但每个人都试图保持快乐。爱好享乐的青年。

When Mr. March lost his property in trying to help an unfortunate friend, the two oldest girls begged to be allowed to do something toward their own support, at least. Believing that they could not begin too early to cultivate energy, industry, and independence, their parents consented, and both fell to work with the hearty good will which in spite of all obstacles is sure to succeed at last.
当马奇先生因试图帮助一位不幸的朋友而失去财产时，两个年龄最大的女孩请求允许至少为她们自己做点什么。他们的父母相信他们不能太早开始培养精力、勤奋和独立，因此同意了，并且两人都怀着热忱的善意投入到工作中，尽管有种种障碍，最终一定会成功。

Margaret found a place as nursery governess and felt rich with her small salary. As she said, she was ‘fond of luxury’, and her chief trouble was poverty. She found it harder to bear than the others because she could remember a time when home was beautiful, life full of ease and pleasure, and want of any kind unknown. She tried not to be envious or discontented, but it was very natural that the young girl should long for pretty things, gay friends, accomplishments, and a happy life. At the Kings’ she daily saw all she wanted, for the children’s older sisters were just out, and Meg caught frequent glimpses of dainty ball dresses and bouquets, heard lively gossip about theaters, concerts, sleighing parties, and merrymakings of all kinds, and saw money lavished on trifles which would have been so precious to her. Poor Meg seldom complained, but a sense of injustice made her feel bitter toward everyone sometimes, for she had not yet learned to know how rich she was in the blessings which alone can make life happy.
玛格丽特找到了一份托儿所家庭教师的工作，并以微薄的薪水感到自己很富有。正如她所说，她“喜欢奢侈”，而她的主要烦恼是贫穷。她觉得比其他人更难以忍受，因为她记得曾经的家是美丽的，生活充满安逸和快乐，却缺乏任何未知的东西。她尽量不去嫉妒或不满，但年轻女孩自然会渴望美丽的事物、同性恋朋友、成就和幸福的生活。在国王家里，她每天都能看到她想要的一切，因为孩子们的姐姐们刚刚出去，梅格经常瞥见精致的舞会礼服和花束，听到有关剧院、音乐会、雪橇派对和各种欢乐活动的热闹八卦，看到金钱被浪费在对她来说如此珍贵的小事上。可怜的梅格很少抱怨，但一种不公正的感觉有时让她对每个人都感到痛苦，因为她还没有学会知道自己拥有多么丰富的祝福，而只有这些祝福才能使生活幸福。

Jo happened to suit Aunt March, who was lame and needed an active person to wait upon her. The childless old lady had offered to adopt one of the girls when the troubles came, and was much offended because her offer was declined. Other friends told the Marches that they had lost all chance of being remembered in the rich old lady’s will, but the unworldly Marches only said...
乔恰好适合马奇姨妈，她是个瘸子，需要一个活跃的人来伺候她。当麻烦来临时，这位没有孩子的老太太提出收养其中一个女孩，但由于她的提议被拒绝，她感到非常生气。其他朋友告诉马奇夫妇，他们已经失去了在富有的老太太的遗嘱中被记住的所有机会，但不谙世事的马奇夫妇只说……

‘We can’t give up our girls for a dozen fortunes. Rich or poor, we will keep together and be happy in one another.’
“我们不能为了十几块钱而放弃我们的女儿。无论贫穷还是富有，我们都会在一起并彼此快乐。”

The old lady wouldn’t speak to them for a time, but happening to meet Jo at at a friend’s, something in her comical face and blunt manners struck the old lady’s fancy, and she proposed to take her for a companion. This did not suit Jo at all, but she accepted the place since nothing better appeared and, to every one’s surprise, got on remarkably well with her irascible relative. There was an occasional tempest, and once Jo marched home, declaring she couldn’t bear it longer, but Aunt March always cleared up quickly, and sent for her to come back again with such urgency that she could not refuse, for in her heart she rather liked the peppery old lady.
老太太一时不肯跟他们说话，但碰巧在朋友家遇见了乔，她滑稽的表情和直率的举止让老太太看中了，提出带她做伴。这根本不适合乔，但她接受了这个地方，因为没有更好的出现，而且令所有人惊讶的是，她和她脾气暴躁的亲戚相处得非常好。偶尔会发生一场暴风雨，有一次乔大步回家，声称她再也忍受不了了，但马奇姨妈总是很快就平静下来，并急切地派人叫她回来，她无法拒绝，因为在她心里她倒是很喜欢那个辣辣的老太太。

I suspect that the real attraction was a large library of fine books, which was left to dust and spiders since Uncle March died. Jo remembered the kind old gentleman, who used to let her build railroads and bridges with his big dictionaries, tell her stories about queer pictures in his Latin books, and buy her cards of gingerbread whenever he met her in the street. The dim, dusty room, with the busts staring down from the tall bookcases, the cozy chairs, the globes, and best of all, the wilderness of books in which she could wander where she liked, made the library a region of bliss to her.
我怀疑真正的吸引力是一个藏有精美书籍的大型图书馆，自从马奇叔叔去世后，它就被遗弃在灰尘和蜘蛛中。乔记得那位善良的老绅士，他曾经让她用他的大字典建造铁路和桥梁，给她讲他的拉丁书中关于酷儿图片的故事，每当他在街上遇见她时，他都会给她买姜饼卡片。昏暗、布满灰尘的房间，高高的书架上俯视着半身像，舒适的椅子，地球仪，最重要的是，她可以在其中随心所欲地漫步的书籍荒野，使图书馆成为她的幸福之地。

The moment Aunt March took her nap, or was busy with company, Jo hurried to this quiet place, and curling herself up in the easy chair, devoured poetry, romance, history, travels, and pictures like a regular bookworm. But, like all happiness, it did not last long, for as sure as she had just reached the heart of the story, the sweetest verse of a song, or the most perilous adventure of her traveler, a shrill voice called, ‘Josy-phine! Josy-phine! and she had to leave her paradise to wind yarn, wash the poodle, or read Belsham’s Essays by the hour together.
马奇姨妈一睡着，或者忙着陪伴，乔就匆匆来到这个安静的地方，蜷缩在安乐椅上，像一个普通的书呆子一样，吞噬着诗歌、浪漫、历史、旅行和图画。但是，就像所有的幸福一样，它并没有持续多久，因为她刚刚到达故事的核心，一首歌中最甜蜜的诗句，或者她的旅行者最危险的冒险，一个尖锐的声音叫道：“乔西——噗！乔西芬！她不得不离开自己的天堂，去缠绕纱线、给贵宾犬洗澡，或者一起按小时阅读贝尔沙姆的《散文集》。

Jo’s ambition was to do something very splendid. What it was, she had no idea as yet, but left it for time to tell her, and meanwhile, found her greatest affliction in the fact that she couldn’t read, run, and ride as much as she liked. A quick temper, sharp tongue, and restless spirit were always getting her into scrapes, and her life was a series of ups and downs, which were both comic and pathetic. But the training she received at Aunt March’s was just what she needed, and the thought that she was doing something to support herself made her happy in spite of the perpetual ‘Josy-phine!’
乔的野心是要做一些非常出色的事情。她还不知道那是什么，但留着时间告诉她，同时，她发现她最大的痛苦是她不能随心所欲地阅读、跑步和骑行。急躁的脾气、尖刻的舌头、不安分的精神总是让她陷入困境，她的人生跌宕起伏，既可笑又可悲。但她在马奇姨妈家接受的培训正是她所需要的，尽管不断有“乔西芬！”的声音，但想到她正在做一些事情来养活自己，她就感到很高兴。

Beth was too bashful to go to school.It had been tried, but she suffered so much that it was given up, and she did her lessons at home with her father. Even when he went away, and her mother was called to devote her skill and energy to Soldiers’ Aid Societies, Beth went faithfully on by herself and did the best she could. She was a housewifely little creature, and helped Hannah keep home neat and comfortable for the workers, never thinking of any reward but to be loved. Long, quiet days she spent, not lonely nor idle, for her little world was peopled with imaginary friends, and she was by nature a busy bee. There were six dolls to be taken up and dressed every morning, for Beth was a child still and and loved her pets as well as ever. Not one whole or handsome one among them, all were outcasts till Beth took them in, for when her sisters outgrew these idols, they passed to her because Amy would have nothing old or ugly. Beth cherished them all the more tenderly for that very reason, and set up a hospital for infirm dolls. No pins were ever stuck into their cotton vitals, no harsh words or blows were ever given them, no neglect ever saddened the heart or the most repulsive, but all were fed and clothed, nursed and caressed with an affection which never failed. One forlorn fragment of dollanity had belonged to Jo and, having led a tempestuous life, was left a wreck in the rag bag, from which dreary poorhouse it was rescued by Beth and taken to her refuge. Having no top to its head, she tied on a neat little cap, and as both arms and legs were gone, she hid these deficiencies by folding it in a blanket and devoting her best bed to this chronic invalid. If anyone had known the care lavished on that dolly, I think it would have touched their hearts, even while they laughed. She brought it bits of bouquets, she read to it, took it out to breathe fresh air, hidden under her coat, she sang it lullabies and never went to be without kissing its dirty face and whispering tenderly, ‘I hope you’ll have a good night, my poor dear.’
贝丝太害羞了，不敢去上学。曾经尝试过，但她受了太多的苦，所以放弃了，她在家里和父亲一起上课。即使当他离开后，她的母亲被要求将她的技能和精力奉献给士兵援助协会，贝丝仍然忠实地独自一人，并尽力而为。她是一个家庭主妇的小人物，帮助汉娜把家打扫得干干净净，让工人们感到舒适，除了被爱之外，从不考虑任何回报。她度过了漫长而安静的日子，不孤独也不闲着，因为她的小世界里充满了想象中的朋友，而她本质上是一只忙碌的蜜蜂。每天早上都有六个娃娃需要被抱起来并穿上衣服，因为贝丝还是个孩子，并且一如既往地爱着她的宠物。他们之中没有一个完整或英俊的，在贝丝收留他们之前，所有人都被抛弃了，因为当她的姐妹们长大了，不再需要这些偶像时，他们就传给了她，因为艾米不喜欢任何旧的或丑陋的东西。贝丝因此更加珍惜它们，并为体弱多病的娃娃建立了一家医院。没有别针扎进他们棉花的要害，没有对他们进行严厉的言语或打击，没有疏忽让他们伤心或最令人厌恶，但所有人都得到了食物和衣服，护理和爱抚，从未消失过。一件被遗弃的玩偶碎片属于乔，在经历了一场暴风雨的生活后，被留在了破布袋里，贝丝从这间沉闷的济贫院里救出了它，并带到了她的避难所。由于它的头没有顶，她给它戴上一顶整洁的小帽子，由于双臂和双腿都消失了，她把它折叠在毯子里，把她最好的床铺给这个慢性病患者，以此来掩盖这些缺陷。如果有人知道那个洋娃娃所受到的关怀，我想即使他们在笑，也会感动他们的心。 她给它带来一些花束，给它读书，带它出去呼吸新鲜空气，把它藏在外套下，她给它唱摇篮曲，每次去都会亲吻它脏兮兮的脸，温柔地低声说：“我希望你能晚安，我可怜的亲爱的。’

Beth had her troubles as well as the others, and not being an angel but a very human little girl, she often ‘wept a little weep’ as Jo said, because she couldn’t take music lessons and have a fine piano. She loved music so dearly, tried so hard to learn, and practiced away so patiently at the jingling old instrument, that it did seem as if someone (not to hint Aunt March) ought to help her. Nobody did, however, and nobody saw Beth wipe the tears off the yellow keys, that wouldn’t keep in tune, when she was all alone. She sang like a little lark about her work, never was too tired for Marmee and the girls, and day after day said hopefully to herself,’ I know I’ll get my music some time, if I’m good.’
贝丝和其他人一样有自己的烦恼，她不是天使，而是一个非常人性化的小女孩，正如乔所说，她经常“哭得有点哭”，因为她不能上音乐课，也不能拥有一架好钢琴。她如此热爱音乐，如此努力地学习，并如此耐心地练习那叮当作响的旧乐器，似乎确实有人（不是暗示马奇姨妈）应该帮助她。然而，没有人这样做，也没有人看到贝丝擦去黄键上的泪水，当她独自一人时，这不会协调一致。她像个小百灵鸟一样唱着她的工作，对妈妈和女孩们来说永远不会太累，日复一日地满怀希望地对自己说：“我知道如果我做得好的话，有一天我会得到我的音乐。”

There are many Beths in the world, shy and quiet, sitting in corners till needed, and living for others so cheerfully that no one sees the sacrifices till the little cricket on the hearth stops chirping, and the sweet, sunshiny presence vanishes, leaving silence and shadow behind.
世界上有许多贝丝，害羞而安静，坐在角落里直到需要时，快乐地为他人生活，以至于没有人看到牺牲，直到炉边的小蟋蟀停止鸣叫，甜蜜、阳光明媚的存在消失，只剩下沉默和身后的影子。

If anybody had asked Amy what the greatest trial of her life was, she would have answered at once, ‘My nose.’ When she was a baby, Jo had accidently dropped her into the coal hod, and Amy insisted that the fall had ruined her nose forever. It was not big nor red, like poor ‘Petrea’s’, it was only rather flat, and all the pinching in the world could not give it an aristocratic point. No one minded it but herself, and it was doing its best to grow, but Amy felt deeply the want of a Grecian nose, and drew whole sheets of handsome ones to console herself.
如果有人问艾米，她一生中最大的考验是什么，她会立即回答：“我的鼻子。”当她还是个婴儿的时候，乔不小心把她掉进了煤炉里，艾米坚持说，那次摔毁了她的生活。她的鼻子永远。它不像可怜的“佩特雷亚”那样大，也不红，只是相当平坦，世界上所有的捏造都无法给它带来贵族气息。除了她自己，没有人介意它，它正在尽最大努力成长，但艾米深深地感到自己想要一个希腊鼻子，画了一整张漂亮的鼻子来安慰自己。

‘Little Raphael,’ as her sisters called her, had a decided talent for drawing, and was never so happy as when copying flowers, designing fairies, or illustrating stories with queer specimens of art. Her teachers complained that instead of doing her sums she covered her slate with animals, the blank pages of her atlas were used to copy maps on, and caricatures of the most ludicrous description came fluttering out of all her books at unlucky moments. She got through her lessons as well as she could, and managed to escape reprimands by being a model of deportment. She was a great favorite with her mates, being good-tempered and possessing the happy art of pleasing without effort. Her little airs and graces were much admired, so were her accomplishments, for besides her drawing, she could play twelve tunes, crochet, and read French without mispronouncing more than two-thirds of the words. She had a plaintive way of saying, ‘When Papa was rich we did so-and-so,’ which was very touching, and her long words were considered ‘perfectly elegant’ by the girls.
她的姐妹们称她为“小拉斐尔”，她有着明显的绘画天赋，在临摹花朵、设计仙女或用奇怪的艺术标本描绘故事时，她感到无比快乐。她的老师抱怨说，她没有做算术题，而是在石板上画满了动物，地图集的空白页被用来复制地图，在不幸的时刻，最可笑的描述的漫画会从她的所有书中飘扬出来。她尽其所能地完成了学业，并通过成为行为举止的典范而逃脱了谴责。她很受朋友们的喜爱，脾气很好，并且拥有毫不费力地取悦他人的快乐艺术。她的小神态和优雅备受赞赏，她的成就也很受人钦佩，因为除了绘画之外，她还能弹十二首曲子、钩针编织，还能读法语，而且不会读错三分之二以上的单词。她用一种哀怨的语气说：“爸爸有钱的时候我们做了某事”，非常感人，她的长话被女孩们认为“非常优雅”。

Amy was in a fair way to be spoiled, for everyone petted her, and her small vanities and selfishnesses were growing nicely. One thing, however, rather quenched the vanities. She had to wear her cousin’s clothes. Now Florence’s mama hadn’t a particle of taste, and Amy suffered deeply at having to wear a red instead of a blue bonnet, unbecoming gowns, and fussy aprons that did not fit. Everything was good, well made, and little worn, but Amy’s artistic eyes were much afflicted, especially this winter, when her school dress was a dull purple with yellow dots and no trimming.
艾米确实是被宠坏了，因为每个人都宠爱她，她小小的虚荣心和自私心也随之滋长。然而，有一件事却浇灭了人们的虚荣心。她必须穿她表弟的衣服。现在，弗洛伦斯的妈妈一点品味都没有了，而艾米则因不得不戴红色而不是蓝色的帽子、不合时宜的礼服和不合身的挑剔围裙而深受痛苦。一切都很好，做工精良，几乎没有磨损，但艾米的艺术眼睛很受折磨，尤其是今年冬天，她的校服是暗紫色，有黄点，没有任何修饰。

‘My only comfort,’ she said to Meg, with tears in her eyes, ‘is that Mother doesn’t take tucks in my dresses whenever I’m naughty, as Maria Parks’s mother does. My dear, it’s really dreadful, for sometimes she is so bad her frock is up to her knees, and she can’t come to school. When I think of this deggerredation, I fell that I can bear even my flat nose and purple gown with yellow skyrockets on it.’
“我唯一的安慰，”她眼里含着泪水对梅格说，“只要我顽皮，妈妈就不会像玛丽亚·帕克斯的妈妈那样，把我的衣服掖进去。”亲爱的，这真的很可怕，因为有时她很糟糕，她的衣服都长到膝盖了，她不能来学校。当我想到这种解构时，我觉得我什至可以忍受我的扁平鼻子和紫色长袍，上面有黄色的火箭。

Meg was Amy’s confidante and monitor, and by some strange attraction of opposites Jo was gentle Beth’s. To Jo alone did the shy child tell her thoughts, and over her big harum-scarum sister Beth unconsciously exercised more influence than anyone in the family. The two older girls were a great deal to one another, but each took one of the younger sisters into her keeping and watched over her in her own way, ‘playing mother’ they called it, and put their sisters in the places of discarded dolls with the maternal instinct of litte women.
梅格是艾米的红颜知己和班长，而由于某种奇怪的异性吸引力，乔成了温柔的贝丝的红颜知己和班长。这个害羞的孩子只对乔诉说了她的想法，而贝丝则不知不觉地对她鲁莽的大姐姐施加了比家里任何人都大的影响力。两个年长的女孩彼此关系很好，但她们各自把其中一个妹妹收起来，用自己的方式照顾她，她们称之为“扮演母亲”，把她们的姐妹放在被丢弃的洋娃娃的位置上。带着小女人的母性本能。

‘Has anybody got anything to tell? It’s been such a dismal day I’m really dying for some amusement,’ said Meg, as they sat sewing together that evening.
‘有人有什么要说的吗？这真是令人沮丧的一天，我真的很想找点乐子。”那天晚上，当他们坐在一起做针线活时，梅格说道。

‘I had a queer time with Aunt today, and, as I got the best of it, I’ll tell you about it,’ began Jo, who dearly loved to tell stories. ‘I was reading that everlasting Belsham, and droning away as I always do, for Aunt soon drops off, and then I take out some nice book, and read like fury till she wakes up. I actually made myself sleepy, and before she began to nod, I gave such a gape that she asked me what I meant by opening my mouth wide enough to take the whole book in at once.
“今天我和阿姨度过了一段奇怪的时光，等我度过了最好的时光，我会告诉你这件事，”乔开始说，她非常喜欢讲故事。 “我正在读那本永恒的《贝尔沙姆》，像往常一样单调乏味，因为姨妈很快就走了，然后我拿出一本好书，愤怒地读着，直到她醒来。事实上，我让自己昏昏欲睡，在她开始点头之前，我张大了嘴，她问我张大嘴，一下子把整本书都吞进去是什么意思。

‘I wish I could, and be done with it,’ said I, trying not to be saucy.
“我希望我能做到，并且结束了，”我说道，尽量不显得俏皮。

‘Then she gave me a long lecture on my sins, and told me to sit and think them over while she just ‘lost’ herself for a moment. She never finds herself very soon, so the minute her cap began to bob like a top-heavy dahlia, I whipped the VICAR OF WAKEFIELD out of my pocket, and read away, with one eye on him and one on Aunt. I’d just got to where they all tumbled into the water when I forgot and laughed out loud. Aunt woke up and, being more good-natured after her nap, told me to read a bit and show what frivolous work I preferred to the worthy and instructive Belsham. I did my very best, and she liked it, though she only said...
“然后她对我的罪孽进行了长篇大论，并让我坐下来好好思考一下，而她则‘迷失’了一会儿。她从来没有很快找到自己，所以当她的帽子开始像一朵头重脚轻的大丽花一样摆动的那一刻，我从口袋里掏出韦克菲尔德牧师，一只眼睛看着他，一只眼睛看着姨妈。我刚到他们都掉进水里的地方，我就忘记了，大声笑了起来。姨妈醒了，午睡后脾气变得更好了，让我读一点书，看看我更喜欢那些无聊的工作，而不是有价值和有启发性的贝尔沙姆。我已经尽力了，她也喜欢，尽管她只是说……

‘I don’t understand what it’s all about. Go back and begin it, child.’
‘我不明白这到底是怎么回事。回去开始吧，孩子。

‘Back I went, and made the Primroses as interesting as ever I could. Once I was wicked enough to stop in a thrilling place, and say meekly, ‘I’m afraid it tires you, ma’am. Shan’t I stop now?’
“我回去了，尽我所能让报春花变得有趣。有一次我很邪恶，在一个令人兴奋的地方停下来，温顺地说：“我担心这会让你感到疲倦，女士。”我现在不能停下来吗？

‘She caught up her knitting, which had dropped out of her hands, gave me a sharp look through her specs, and said, in her short way, ‘Finish the chapter, and don’t be impertinent, miss’.’
“她捡起了从她手里掉下来的编织物，透过她的眼镜锐利地看了我一眼，然后简短地说，‘完成这一章，别无礼，小姐。’”

‘Did she own she liked it?’ asked Meg.
“她承认她喜欢它吗？”梅格问。

‘Oh, bless you, no! But she let old Belsham rest, and when I ran back after my gloves this afternoon, there she was, so hard at the Vicar that she didn’t hear me laugh as I danced a jig in the hall because of the good time coming. What a pleasant life she might have if only she chose! I don’t envy her much, in spite of her money, for after all rich people have about as many worries as poor ones, I think,’ added Jo.
‘哦，祝福你，不！但她让老贝尔沙姆休息了，当我今天下午跑回来拿手套时，她就在那里，对牧师如此严厉，以至于她没有听到我在大厅里跳吉格舞时的笑声，因为美好的时光即将到来。只要她选择，她的生活将会是多么美好啊！尽管她很有钱，但我并不怎么羡慕她，因为我认为，毕竟富人的烦恼和穷人一样多，”乔补充道。

‘That reminds me,’ said Meg, ‘that I’ve got something to tell. It isn’t funny, like Jo’s story, but I thought about it a good deal as I came home. At the Kings’ today I found everybody in a flurry, and one of the children said that her oldest brother had done something dreadful, and Papa had sent him away. I heard Mrs. King crying and Mr. King talking very loud, and Grace and Ellen turned away their faces when they passed me, so I shouldn’t see how red and swollen their eyes were. I didn’t ask any questions, of course, but I felt so sorry for them and was rather glad I hadn’t any wild brothers to do wicked things and disgrace the family.’
“这提醒我，”梅格说，“我有话要说。”这并不好笑，就像乔的故事一样，但我回家后想了很多。今天在国王队，我发现每个人都很慌乱，其中一个孩子说她的大哥做了一件可怕的事情，爸爸把他送走了。我听到金夫人在哭，金先生大声说话，格蕾丝和艾伦经过我身边时把脸转开，所以我不应该看到他们的眼睛有多么红肿。当然，我没有问任何问题，但我为他们感到难过，也很庆幸我没有野兄弟做坏事，让家人蒙羞。

‘I think being disgraced in school is a great deal tryinger than anything bad boys can do,’ said Amy, shaking her head, as if her experience of life had been a deep one. ‘Susie Perkins came to school today with a lovely red carnelian ring. I wanted it dreadfully, and wished I was her with all my might. Well, she drew a picture of Mr. Davis, with a monstrous nose and a hump, and the words, ‘Young ladies, my eye is upon you!’ coming out of his mouth in a balloon thing. We were laughing over it when all of a sudden his eye was on us, and he ordered Susie to bring up her slate. She was parrylized with fright, but she went, and oh, what do you think he did? He took her by the ear—the ear! Just fancy how horrid!—and led her to the recitation platform, and made her stand there half and hour, holding the slate so everyone could see.’
“我认为在学校里丢脸比坏男孩做的任何事情都要痛苦得多，”艾米摇着头说道，仿佛她的生活经历是深刻的。 “苏西·帕金斯今天带着一枚可爱的红色红玉髓戒指来到学校。我非常想要它，并希望我全力以赴地成为她。好吧，她画了一张戴维斯先生的照片，他有一个巨大的鼻子和一个驼峰，还有一句话，“年轻女士们，我的目光在你们身上！”从他嘴里的气球状东西中出来。我们正在大笑，突然他的目光落在我们身上，他命令苏西拿出她的石板。她吓得不敢动，但还是走了，哦，你认为他做了什么？他抓住了她的耳朵——耳朵！想象一下多么可怕！——并把她带到了诵经台上，让她在那里站了半个小时，拿着石板，这样每个人都能看到。

‘Didn’t the girls laugh at the picture?’ asked Jo, who relished the scrape.
“女孩们没有因为这张照片而笑吗？”乔问道，她很享受这种刮擦的感觉。

‘Laugh? Not one! They sat still as mice, and Susie cried quarts, I know she did. I didn’t envy her then, for I felt that millions of carnelian rings wouldn’t have made me happy after that. I never, never should have got over such a agonizing mortification.’ And Amy went on with her work, in the proud consciousness of virtue and the successful utterance of two long words in a breath.
'笑？不是一个！他们像老鼠一样静静地坐着，苏西哭了夸脱，我知道她哭了。那时我并不羡慕她，因为我觉得在那之后，数以百万计的红玉髓戒指不会让我快乐。我永远、永远不应该克服如此痛苦的屈辱。”艾米继续她的工作，带着自豪的美德意识，成功地一口气说出了两个长词。

‘I saw something I liked this morning, and I meant to tell it at dinner, but I forgot,’ said Beth, putting Jo’s topsy-turvy basket in order as she talked. ‘When I went to get some oysters for Hannah, Mr. Laurence was in the fish shop, but he didn’t see me, for I kept behind the fish barrel, and he was busy with Mr. Cutter the fishman. A poor woman came in with a pail a mop, and asked Mr. Cutter if he would let her do some scrubbing for a bit of fish, because she hadn’t any dinner for her children, and had been disappointed of a day’s work. Mr. Cutter was in a hurry and said ‘No’, rather crossly, so she was going away, looking hungry and sorry, when Mr. Laurence hooked up a big fish with the crooked end of his cane and held it out to her. She was so glad and surprised she took it right into her arms, and thanked him over and over. He told her to ‘go along and cook it’, and she hurried off, so happy! Wasn’t it good of him? Oh, she did look so funny, hugging the big, slippery fish, and hoping Mr. Laurence’s bed in heaven would be ‘aisy’.’
“今天早上我看到了一些我喜欢的东西，本来想在晚餐时讲出来，但我忘了，”贝丝边说边把乔乱七八糟的篮子整理好。 “当我去给汉娜买一些牡蛎时，劳伦斯先生在鱼店里，但他没有看到我，因为我一直在鱼桶后面，而他正忙着照顾渔夫卡特先生。一位贫穷的妇女提着一桶拖把进来，问卡特先生是否可以让她擦洗一点鱼，因为她没有给孩子们吃晚饭，而且对一天的工作感到失望。卡特先生很着急，相当生气地说“不”，所以她正要走开，看上去又饿又抱歉，这时劳伦斯先生用拐杖弯曲的一端钓到了一条大鱼，递给她。她感到非常高兴和惊讶，她把它抱进怀里，一遍又一遍地感谢他。他让她“一起去煮吧”，她高兴极了，赶紧走了！他这不是好事吗？哦，她看起来确实很有趣，抱着那条又大又滑的鱼，并希望劳伦斯先生在天堂的床会“很舒服”。

When they had laughed at Beth’s story, they asked their mother for one, and after a moments thought, she said soberly, ‘As I sat cutting out blue flannel jackets today at the rooms, I felt very anxious about Father, and thought how lonely and helpless we should be , if anything happened to him. It was not a wise thing to do, but I kept on worrying till an old man came in with an order for some clothes. He sat down near me, and I began to talk to him, for he looked poor and tired and anxious.
当他们听完贝丝的故事后，他们向母亲要了一件，想了想，她清醒地说：“今天，当我坐在房间里剪蓝色法兰绒夹克时，我对父亲感到非常焦虑，想着父亲是多么孤独。”如果他出了什么事，我们也应该束手无策。这不是明智之举，但我一直担心，直到一位老人进来订购一些衣服。他在我旁边坐下，我开始和他说话，因为他看起来很穷、疲倦和焦虑。

‘Have you sons in the army?’ I asked, for the note he brought was not to me. ‘Yes, ma’am. I had four, but two were killed, one is a prisoner, and I’m going to the other, who is very sick in a Washington hospital.’ he answered quietly.
“你有儿子在军队吗？”我问道，因为他带来的纸条不是给我的。 '是的女士。我有四个人，但两个人被杀了，一个是囚犯，我要去另一个，他在华盛顿的一家医院里病得很重。”他平静地回答。

‘You have done a great deal for your country, sir, ‘ I said, feeling respect now, instead of pity.
“你为你的国家做了很多事情，先生，”我说，现在我感到尊重，而不是怜悯。

‘Not a mite more than I ought, ma’am. I’d go myself, if I was any use. As I ain’t, I give my boys, and give ‘em free.’
“一点也不比我应该的多，女士。如果有什么用的话，我会自己去。但我不是，我给了我的孩子们，给了他们自由。

‘He spoke so cheerfully, looked so sincere, and seemed so glad to give his all, that I was ashamed of myself. I’d given one man and thought it too much, while he gave four without grudging them. I had all my girls to comfort me at home, and his last son was waiting, miles away, to say good-by to him, perhaps! I felt so rich, so happy thinking of my blessings, that I made him a nice bundle, gave him some money, and thanked him heartily for the lesson he had taught me.’
“他说话那么高兴，看起来那么真诚，似乎很高兴付出自己的一切，我都为自己感到羞愧。”我给了一个人，却觉得太过分了，而他却给了四个人，却毫不吝惜。我所有的女儿们都在家里安慰我，而他的最后一个儿子正在几英里外等待着，也许是要向他道别！想到我的祝福，我感到非常富有，非常高兴，我给他做了一个漂亮的包裹，给了他一些钱，并衷心感谢他教给我的教训。

‘Tell another story, Mother, one with a moral to it, like this. I like to think about them afterward, if they are real and not too preachy,’ said Jo, after a minute’s silence.
“妈妈，再讲一个有寓意的故事，就像这样。” “我喜欢事后想想它们，看看它们是否真实，而且不太说教。”乔沉默了一分钟后说道。

Mrs. March smiled and began at once, for she had told stories to this little audience for many years, and knew how to please them.
马奇夫人微笑着立刻开始讲故事，因为她已经给这群小观众讲故事很多年了，知道如何取悦他们。

‘Once upon a time, there were four girls, who had enough to eat and drink and wear, a good many comforts and pleasures, kind friends and parents who loved them dearly, and yet they were not contented.’ (Here the listeners stole sly looks at one another, and began to sew diligently.) ‘These girls were anxious to be good and made many excellent resolutions, but they did not keep them very well, and were constantly saying, ‘If only we had this, ‘ or ‘If we could only do that, ‘ quite forgetting how much they already had, and how many things they actually could do. So they asked an old woman what spell they could use to make them happy, and she said, ‘When you feel discontented, think over your blessings, and be grateful.’’ (Here Jo looked up quickly, as if about to speak, but changed her mind, seeing that the story was not done yet.)
“从前，有四个女孩，她们吃饱喝足，有很多舒适和快乐，有善良的朋友和深爱她们的父母，但她们并不满足。”（此处听众偷窃）狡猾地互相看了一眼，然后开始勤奋地缝衣服。）“这些女孩渴望成为好人，并制定了许多出色的决心，但她们并没有很好地遵守它们，并且不断地说，‘如果我们有这个就好了’，或者“如果我们能做到这一点就好了”，完全忘记了他们已经拥有了多少，以及他们实际上可以做多少事情。于是他们问一位老妇人，可以用什么咒语让他们快乐，她说：“当你感到不满时，想想你的祝福，并心存感激。”（说到这里，乔迅速抬起头，好像要说话，但看到故事还没有结束，她改变了主意。）

‘Being sensible girls, they decided to try her advice, and soon were surprised to see how well off they were. One discovered that money couldn’t keep shame and sorrow out of rich people’s houses, another that, though she was poor, she was a great deal happier, with her youth, health, and good spirits, than a certain fretful, feeble old lady who couldn’t enjoy her comforts, a third that, disagreeable as it was to help get dinner, it was harder still to go begging for it and the fourth, that even carnelian rings were not so valuable as good behavior. So they agreed to stop complaining, to enjoy the blessings already possessed, and try to deserve them, lest they should be taken away entirely, instead of increased, and I believe they were never disappointed or sorry that they took the old woman’s advice.’
“作为明智的女孩，她们决定尝试她的建议，很快就惊讶地发现她们的境况如此之好。一个人发现金钱并不能消除富人家里的羞耻和悲伤，另一个人发现，尽管她很穷，但她年轻、健康、精神好，比某个烦躁、虚弱的老太太幸福得多。她无法享受她的舒适，第三，虽然帮忙准备晚餐很不愉快，但去乞讨更困难，第四，即使是红玉髓戒指也没有良好的行为那么有价值。因此，他们同意停止抱怨，享受已经拥有的祝福，并努力配得上这些祝福，以免它们被完全夺走，而不是增加，我相信他们从来没有因为接受了老妇人的建议而感到失望或遗憾。

‘Now, Marmee, that is very cunning of you to turn our own stories against us, and give us a sermon instead of a romance!’ cried Meg. ‘I like that kind of sermon. It’s the sort Father used to tell us,’ said Beth thoughtfully, putting the needles straight on Jo’s cushion.
“现在，妈咪，你真是太狡猾了，竟然用我们自己的故事来反对我们，给我们讲道而不是浪漫！”梅格喊道。 ‘我喜欢这样的布道。这是父亲以前告诉我们的那种。”贝丝若有所思地说，把针直接放在乔的坐垫上。

‘I don’t complain near as much as the others do, and I shall be more careful than ever now, for I’ve had warning from Susies’s downfall,’ said Amy morally.
“我不像其他人那样抱怨，而且我现在会比以往任何时候都更加小心，因为我已经从苏西的垮台中得到了警告，”艾米道德地说。

‘We needed that lesson, and we won’t forget it. If we do so, you just say to us, as old Chloe did in UNCLE TOM, ‘Tink ob yer marcies, chillen! ‘Tink ob yer marcies!’’ added Jo, who could not, for the life of her, help getting a morsel of fun out of the little sermon, though she took it to heart as much as any of them.
“我们需要这个教训，我们不会忘记它。如果我们这样做，你只需对我们说，就像老克洛伊在《汤姆叔叔》中所做的那样，‘听听马西斯的话，冷静！ “听听马西斯的话！”乔补充道，尽管她和其他人一样把这件事牢记在心，但她无论如何也无法从这场小小的布道中获得一丝乐趣。

CHAPTER FIVE
第五章

‘What in the world are you going to do now, Jo.’ asked Meg one snowy afternoon, as her sister came tramping through the hall, in rubber boots, old sack, and hood, with a broom in one hand and a shovel in the other.
“你现在到底要做什么，乔。”一个下雪的下午，梅格问道，当时她的姐姐穿着橡胶靴，戴着旧麻袋，戴着兜帽，一手拿着扫帚，手里拿着铲子，走过大厅。另一个。

‘Going out for exercise,’ answered Jo with a mischievous twinkle in her eyes.
“出去锻炼。”乔回答道，眼里闪烁着顽皮的光芒。

‘I should think two long walks this morning would have been enough! It’s cold and dull out, and I advise you to stay warm and dry by the fire, as I do,’ said Meg with a shiver.
“我想今天早上两次长途散步就足够了！外面又冷又沉，我建议你像我一样在火边保持温暖和干燥，”梅格打着寒颤说。

‘Never take advice! Can’t keep still all day, and not being a pussycat, I don’t like to doze by the fire. I like adventures, and I’m going to find some.’
‘永远不要接受建议！整天静不下来，而且我又不是小猫咪，不喜欢在火边打瞌睡。我喜欢冒险，我会去寻找一些。”

Meg went back to toast her feet and read IVANHOE, and Jo began to dig paths with great energy. The snow was light, and with her broom she soon swept a path all round the garden, for Beth to walk in when the sun came out and the invalid dolls needed air. Now, the garden separated the Marches’ house from that of Mr. Laurence. Both stood in a suburb of the city, which was still countrylike, with groves and lawns, large gardens, and quiet streets. A low hedge parted the two estates. On one side was an old, brown house, looking rather bare and shabby, robbed of the vines that in summer covered its walls and the flowers, which then surrounded it. On the other side was a stately stone mansion, plainly betokening every sort of comfort and luxury, from the big coach house and well-kept grounds to the conservatory and the glimpses of lovely things one caught between the rich curtains.
梅格回去敬酒并读《艾凡霍》，乔开始精力充沛地挖路。雪很轻，她很快就用扫帚在花园周围扫了一条小路，以便贝丝在太阳出来、病弱的娃娃需要空气时可以进去。现在，花园将马奇夫妇的房子与劳伦斯先生的房子分开。两人都站在城市的郊区，那里仍然是乡村风格，有树林和草坪、大花园和安静的街道。一道低矮的树篱将两个庄园分开。一侧是一座古老的棕色房子，看起来相当光秃秃的，破旧的，夏天覆盖墙壁的藤蔓和周围的花朵都被夺走了。另一边是一座庄严的石头宅邸，从大马车房和维护良好的场地到温室，以及在华丽的窗帘之间瞥见的可爱事物，显然预示着各种舒适和奢华。

Yet it seemed a lonely, lifeless sort of house, for no children frolicked on the lawn, no motherly face ever smiled at the windows, and few people went in and out, except the old gentleman and his grandson.
然而，这似乎是一座孤独、死气沉沉的房子，因为没有孩子在草坪上嬉戏，没有母亲的脸对着窗户微笑，除了老先生和他的孙子之外，很少有人进出。

To Jo’s lively fancy, this fine house seemed a kind of enchanted palace, full of splendors and delights which no one enjoyed. She had long wanted to behold these hidden glories, and to know the Laurence boy, who looked as if he would like to be known, if he only knew how to begin. Since the party, she had been more eager than ever, and had planned many ways of making friends with him, but he had not been seen lately, and Jo began to think he had gone away, when she one day spied a brown face at an upper window, looking wistfully down into their garden, where Beth and Amy were snow-balling one another.
在乔的生动想象中，这座精美的房子就像一座迷人的宫殿，充满了无人享受的辉煌和欢乐。她长期以来一直想看到这些隐藏的荣耀，并了解劳伦斯男孩，他看起来好像很想被人认识，但愿他知道如何开始。自从聚会之后，她比以往任何时候都更加渴望，并计划了很多与他交朋友的方法，但最近他却不见踪影，乔开始以为他已经走了，有一天她在家里发现了一张棕色的脸。楼上的一扇窗户，若有所思地俯视着他们的花园，贝丝和艾米正在花园里互相滚雪球。

‘That boy is suffering for society and fun,’ she said to herself. ‘His grandpa does not know what’s good for him, and keeps him shut up all alone. He needs a party of jolly boys to play with, or somebody young and lively. I’ve a great mind to go over and tell the old gentleman so!’
“那个男孩正在为社会和乐趣而受苦，”她对自己说。 “他的爷爷不知道什么对他有好处，把他一个人关起来。他需要一群快乐的男孩一起玩，或者一个年轻活泼的人。我很想过去告诉老先生！”

The idea amused Jo. who liked to do daring things and was always scandalizing Meg by her queer performances. The plan of ‘going over’ was not forgotten. And when the snowy afternoon came, Jo resolved to try what could be done. She saw Mr. Lawrence drive off, and then sallied out to dig her way down to the hedge, where she paused and took a survey. All quiet, curtains down at the lower windows, servants out of sight, and nothing human visible but a curly black head leaning on a thin hand at the upper window.
这个想法让乔觉得很有趣。她喜欢做大胆的事情，总是因为她的怪异表演而让梅格感到震惊。 “过去”的计划并没有被忘记。当下雪的下午到来时，乔决定尝试一下能做的事情。她看到劳伦斯先生开车离开，然后冲出去，挖路来到树篱处，在那里她停下来进行了调查。一切都很安静，下面的窗户拉着窗帘，仆人看不见，除了上面窗户上靠在一只瘦手上的卷曲的黑色脑袋之外，看不到任何人类。

‘There he is,’ thought Jo, ‘Poor boy! All alone and sick this dismal day. It’s a shame! I’ll toss up a snowball and make him look out, and then say a kind word to him.’
“他在那儿，”乔想，“可怜的孩子！”在这个阴沉的日子里，我孤身一人，病了。这是一个耻辱！我会扔一个雪球让他向外看，然后对他说几句好话。

Up went a handful of soft snow, and the head turned at once, showing a face which lost its listless look in a minute, as the big eyes brightened and the mouth began to smile. Jo nodded and laughed, and flourished her broom as she called out...
扬起了一把软雪，脑袋一下子转了过来，一张脸瞬间失去了无精打采的样子，大眼睛亮了起来，嘴角也笑了起来。乔点点头，大笑起来，一边挥舞着扫帚，一边喊道……

‘How do you do? Are you sick?’
'你好吗？你生病了吗？'

Laurie opened the window, and croaked out as hoarsely as a raven...
劳里打开窗户，像乌鸦一样沙哑地叫了出来……

‘Better, thank you. I’ve had a bad cold, and been shut up a week.’
‘好多了，谢谢。我得了重感冒，被关了一个星期。”

‘I’m sorry. What do you amuse yourself with?’
'对不起。你有什么消遣？

‘Nothing. It’s dull as tombs up here.’
'没有什么。这里像坟墓一样沉闷。

‘Don’t you read?’
“你不读书吗？”

‘Not much. They won’t let me.’
'不多。他们不会让我这么做。

‘Can’t somebody read to you?’
“没人读给你听吗？”

‘Grandpa does sometimes, but my books don’t interest him, and I hate to ask Brooke all the time.’
“爷爷有时会这样做，但他对我的书不感兴趣，而且我讨厌一直问布鲁克。”

‘Have someone come and see you then.’
“那就让人来看你吧。”

‘There isn’t anyone I’d like to see. Boys make such a row, and my head is weak.’
‘没有人是我想见的。男孩们吵得这么厉害，我的头都软了。”

‘Isn’t there some nice girl who’d read and amuse you? Girls are quiet and like to play nurse.’
“难道没有一个好女孩会读书并逗你开心吗？女孩子很安静，喜欢扮演护士。”

‘Don’t know any.’
“一个也不知道。”

‘You know us,’ began Jo, then laughed and stopped.
“你认识我们，”乔开始说，然后笑了，停了下来。

‘So I do! Will you come, please?’ cried Laurie.
‘所以我愿意！ “劳里，你能来吗？”

‘I’m not quiet and nice, but I’ll come, if Mother will let me. I’ll go ask her. Shut the window, like a good boy, and wait till I come.’
“我不安静，也不友善，但如果妈妈允许的话，我会来的。”我去问问她。像个好孩子一样关上窗户，等我来。

With that, Jo shouldered her broom and marched into the house, wondering what they would all say to her. Laurie was in a flutter of excitement at the idea of having company, and flew about to get ready, for as Mrs. March said, he was ‘a little gentleman’. and did honor to the coming guest by brushing his curly pate, putting on a fresh color, and trying tidy up the room, which in spite of half a dozen servants, was anything but neat. Presently there came a loud ring, than a decided voice, asking for ‘Mr. laurie’, and a surprisedlooking servant came running up to announce a young lady.
说完，乔扛起扫帚大步走进屋子，想知道他们会对她说什么。劳里一想到有人陪伴，就兴奋不已，飞来飞去做好准备，因为正如马奇夫人所说，他是“一位小绅士”。为了向即将到来的客人表示敬意，他梳理了自己的卷发，穿上了新的颜色，并试图整理房间，尽管有六个仆人，但房间一点也不整洁。不久，一阵响亮的铃声响起，声音坚定，询问“先生”。劳里”，一个满脸惊讶的仆人跑过来宣布一位年轻女士。

‘All right, show her up, it’s Miss Jo, ‘said Laurie, going to the door of his little parlor to meet Jo, who appeared, looking rosy and quite at her ease, with a covered dish in one hand and Beth’s three kittens in the other.
“好吧，带她过来，是乔小姐，”劳里一边说，一边走到他的小客厅门口迎接乔，乔出现了，脸色红润，一手拿着一个盖着的盘子，还有贝丝的三只小猫。在另一个。

‘Here I am, bag and baggage,’ she said briskly. ‘Mother sent her love, and was glad if I could do anything for you. Meg wanted me to bring some of her blancmange, she makes it very nicely, and Beth thought her cats would be comforting. I knew you’d laugh at them, but I couldn’t refuse, she was so anxious to do something.’
“我在这里，带着行李，”她轻快地说。 “母亲表达了她的爱，如果我能为你做点什么，她会很高兴。梅格要我带一些她的牛奶冻，她做得非常好，贝丝认为她的猫会让人感到安慰。我知道你会嘲笑他们，但我无法拒绝，她太渴望做点什么了。

It so happened that Beth’s funny loan was just the thing, for in laughing over the kits, Laurie forgot his bashfulness, and grew sociable at once.
碰巧贝丝有趣的借来的东西正是这样，因为在对着这些工具包大笑时，劳里忘记了他的害羞，并立即变得善于交际。

‘That looks too pretty to eat,’ he said, smiling with pleasure, as Jo uncovered the dish, and showed the blancmange, surrounded by a garland of green leaves, and the scarlet flowers of Amy’s pet geranium.
“那看起来太漂亮了，舍不得吃。”当乔打开盘子，展示牛奶冻时，他高兴地微笑着说，周围环绕着绿叶花环，还有艾米宠物天竺葵的猩红色花朵。

‘It isn’t anything, only they all felt kindly and wanted to show it. Tell the girl to put it away for your tea. It’s so simple you can eat it, and being soft, it will slip down without hurting your sore throat. What a cozy room this is!’
‘这没什么，只是他们都感到友善并想表现出来。告诉女孩把它收起来，用来泡茶。很简单，你可以吃它，而且它很软，它会滑下来，不会伤害你的喉咙。这是多么舒适的房间啊！

‘It might be it it was kept nice, but the maids are lazy, and I don’t know how to make them mind. It worries me though.’
“也许是保养得很好，但女仆们都很懒，我不知道如何让她们介意。”但这让我很担心。

‘I’ll right it up in two minutes, for it only needs to have the hearth brushed, so—and the things made straight on the mantelpiece, so—and the books put here, and the bottles there, and your sofa turned from the light, and the pillows plumped up a bit. Now then, you’re fixed.’
“我会在两分钟内把它修好，因为它只需要刷一下壁炉，所以——壁炉架上的东西都是直接做的，所以——书放在这里，瓶子放在那里，你的沙发从灯光亮了，枕头也鼓起来了一些。那么现在，你就解决了。

And so he was, for, as she laughed and talked, Jo had whisked things into place and given quite a different air to the room. Laurie watched her in respectful silence, and when she beckoned him to his sofa, he sat down with a sigh of satisfaction, saying gratefully...
他确实如此，因为当她笑着说话的时候，乔已经把一切都安排好了，给房间带来了一种完全不同的气氛。劳里恭敬地沉默地看着她，当她招呼他到沙发上时，他满意地叹了一口气，坐了下来，感激地说……

‘How kind you are! Yes, that’s what it wanted. Now please take the big chair and let me do something to amuse my company.’
‘你真是好心啊！是的，这就是它想要的。现在请坐在大椅子上，让我做一些有趣的事情来逗乐我的公司。

‘No, I came to amuse you. Shall I read aloud?’ and Jo looked affectionately toward some inviting books near by.
‘不，我是来逗你玩的。我可以大声朗读吗？”乔深情地看着附近一些诱人的书籍。

‘Thank you! I’ve read all those, and if you don’t mind, I’d rather talk,’ answered Laurie.
'谢谢你！我已经读过所有这些，如果你不介意的话，我宁愿谈谈，”劳里回答道。

‘Not a bit. I’ll talk all day if you’ll only set me going. Beth says I never know when to stop.’
” “一点也没有。如果你愿意的话我会说一整天。贝丝说我永远不知道什么时候该停下来。

‘Is Beth the rosy one, who stays at home good deal and sometimes goes out with a little basket?’ asked Laurie with interest.
“贝丝是个面色红润的人吗？她待在家里很好，有时还带着一个小篮子出去？”劳里饶有兴趣地问道。

‘Yes, that’s Beth. She’s my girl, and a regular good one she is, too.’
“是的，那是贝丝。她是我的女孩，也是一个普通的好女孩。

‘The pretty one is Meg, and the curly-haired one is Amy, I believe?’
“我相信那个漂亮的是梅格，那个卷发的是艾米吧？”

Laurie colored up, but answered frankly, ‘Why, you see I often hear you calling to one another, and when I’m alone up here, I can’t help looking over at your house, you always seem to be having such good times. I beg your pardon for being so rude, but sometimes you forget to put down the curtain at the window where the flowers are. And when the lamps are lighted, it’s like looking at a picture to see the fire, and you all around the table with your mother. Her face is right opposite, and it looks so sweet behind the flowers, I can’t help watching it. I haven’t got any mother, you know.’ And Laurie poked the fire to hide a little twitching of the lips that he could not control.
劳里脸色涨红，但还是很坦白地回答道：“怎么，你看我经常听到你互相呼唤，当我一个人在这儿的时候，我会情不自禁地朝你的房子看一眼，你似乎总是过得很好。”次。请原谅我这么无礼，但有时你会忘记放下开着鲜花的窗户的窗帘。当灯亮起来的时候，就像看一幅画看到火一样，你和妈妈围坐在桌子旁。她的脸就在对面，在花后面看起来很甜美，我忍不住要看。你知道，我没有母亲。”劳里拨开火，以掩饰他无法控制的嘴唇的轻微抽搐。

The solitary, hungry look in his eyes went straight to Jo’s warm heart. she had been so simply taught that there was no nonsense in her head, and at fifteen she was as innocent and frank as any child. Laurie was sick and lonely, and feeling how rich she was in home and happiness, she gladly tried to share it with him. Her face was very friendly and her sharp voice unusually gentle as she said...
他眼中孤独、饥饿的神情直击乔温暖的心。她受到的教育是如此简单，以至于她脑子里没有任何废话，十五岁的她像任何孩子一样天真和坦率。劳里病了，孤独了，她感到自己有多么丰富的家庭和幸福，她很乐意与他分享。她的表情十分友善，尖利的声音异常温柔地说……

‘We’ll never draw that curtain any more, and I give you leave to look as much as you like. I just wish, though, instead of peeping, you’d come over and see us. Mother is so splendid, she’d do you heaps of good, and Beth would sing to you if I begged her to, and Amy would dance. Meg and I would make you laugh over our funny stage properties, and we’d have jolly times. Wouldn’t your grandpa let you?’
“我们再也不会拉上窗帘了，我允许你想看多少就看多少。”不过，我只是希望你不要偷看，而是过来看看我们。妈妈真是太棒了，她会给你带来很多好处，如果我请求贝丝，她会唱歌给你听，艾米会跳舞。梅格和我会让你因我们有趣的舞台表演而发笑，我们会度过愉快的时光。你爷爷不让你这么做吗？

‘I think he would, if your mother asked him. He’s very kind, though he does not look so, and he lets me do what I like, pretty much, only he’s afraid I might be a bother to strangers,’ began Laurie, brightening more and more.
“如果你妈妈问他的话，我想他会的。他很友善，尽管他看起来并不那么友善，而且他几乎让我做我喜欢做的事，只是他担心我可能会打扰陌生人。”劳里开始说道，脸上的笑容越来越明亮。

‘We are not strangers, we are neighbors, and you needn’t think you’d be a bother. We want to know you, and I’ve been trying to do it this ever so long. We haven’t been here a great while, you know, but we have got acquainted with all our neighbors but you.’
“我们不是陌生人，我们是邻居，你不必认为你会打扰。我们想了解你，长期以来我一直在努力做到这一点。你知道，我们来这里的时间不长，但除了你之外，我们已经熟悉了所有的邻居。

‘You see, Grandpa lives among his books, and doesn’t mind much what happens outside. Mr. Brooke, my tutor, doesn’t stay here, you know, and I have no one to go about with me, so I just stop at home and get on as I can.’
‘你看，爷爷生活在书本中，不太关心外面发生的事情。你知道，我的家庭教师布鲁克先生不住在这里，而且我也没有人陪我，所以我就留在家里，尽我所能。

‘That’s bad. You ought to make an effort and go visiting everywhere you are asked, then you’ll have plenty of friends, and pleasant places to go to. Never mind being bashful. It won’t last long if you keep going.’
'那很糟。你应该努力去拜访任何你被邀请的地方，这样你就会有很多朋友，还有愉快的地方可以去。别介意害羞。如果你继续下去，它不会持续太久。

Laurie turned red again, but wasn’t offended at being accused of bashfulness, for there was so much good will in Jo it was impossible not to take her blunt speeches as kindly as they were meant.
劳里的脸又红了，但并没有因为被指责害羞而生气，因为乔的善意如此之多，不可能不以善意的态度对待她直率的演讲。

‘Do you like your school?’ asked the boy, changing the subject, after a little pause, during which he stared at the fire and Jo looked about her, well pleased.
“你喜欢你的学校吗？”男孩停顿了一下，问道，他盯着炉火，乔环顾四周，很高兴。

‘Don’t go to school, I’m a businessman—girl, I mean. I go to wait on my great-aunt, and a dear, cross old soul she is, too,’ answered Jo.
“别去上学，我是个商人——女孩，我是说。我去侍候我的姨婆，她也是个可爱、脾气暴躁的老灵魂。”乔回答道。

Laurie opened his mouth to ask another question, but remembering just in time that it wasn’t manners to make too many inquiries into people’s affairs, he shut it again, and looked uncomfortable.
劳里又张了张嘴，想再问一个问题，但他及时想起过多打听别人的事情是不礼貌的，于是他又闭上了嘴，看上去很不舒服。

Jo liked his good breeding, and didn’t mind having a laugh at Aunt March, so she gave him a lively description of the fidgety old lady, her fat poodle, the parrot that talked Spanish, and the library where she reveled.
乔喜欢他良好的教养，也不介意嘲笑马奇姨妈，所以她生动地描述了那位烦躁的老太太、她那只肥胖的狮子狗、会说西班牙语的鹦鹉，以及她狂欢的图书馆。

Laurie enjoyed that immensely, and when she told about the prim old gentleman who came once to woo Aunt March, and in the middle of a fine speech, how Poll had tweaked his wig off to his great dismay, the boy lay back and laughed till the tears ran down his cheeks, and a maid popped her head in to see what was the matter.
劳里非常享受这一点，当她讲述有一次来向马奇姨妈求爱的一本正经的老绅士，以及在一场精彩的演讲中，波尔如何把他的假发扭断，让他非常沮丧时，男孩躺下来笑了，直到泪水顺着他的脸颊流下来，一个女仆探出头来看看发生了什么事。

‘Oh! That does me no end of good. Tell on, please,’ he said, taking his face out of the sofa cushion, red and shining with merriment.
'哦！这对我有无穷的好处。请继续讲下去，”他说着，把脸从沙发垫上抬起来，脸红得通红，闪烁着欢乐的光芒。

Much elated with her success, Jo did ‘tell on’, all about their plays and plans, their hopes and fears for Father, and the most interesting events of the little world in which the sisters lived. Then they got to talking about books, and to Jo’s delight, she found that Laurie loved them as well as she did, and had read even more than herself.
乔对自己的成功感到非常高兴，她“讲述”了她们的所有戏剧和计划，她们对父亲的希望和恐惧，以及姐妹俩生活的小世界中最有趣的事件。然后他们开始谈论书籍，令乔高兴的是，她发现劳里和她一样喜欢书籍，而且读的书甚至比她自己还多。

‘If you like them so much, come down and see ours. Grandfather is out, so you needn’t be afraid,’ said Laurie, getting up.
‘如果你这么喜欢它们，就下来看看我们的。祖父出去了，所以你不用害怕。”劳里站起来说道。

‘I’m not afraid of anything,’ returned Jo, with a toss of the head.
“我什么都不怕，”乔摇摇头回答道。

‘I don’t believe you are!’ exclaimed the boy, looking at her with much admiration, though he privately thought she would have good reason to be a trifle afraid of the old gentleman, if she met hem in some of his moods.
“我不相信你是这样的！”男孩大声说道，用非常钦佩的目光看着她，尽管他私下里认为，如果她遇到了处于某种情绪中的下摆，她就有充分的理由对这位老先生感到有点害怕。

The atmosphere of the whole house being summerlike, Laurie led the way from room to room, letting Jo stop to examine whatever struck her fancy. And so, at last they came to the library, where she clapped her hands and pranced, as she always did when especially delighted. It was lined with books, and there were pictures and statues, and distracting little cabinets full of coins and curiosities, and Sleepy Hollow chairs, and queer tables, and bronzes, and best of all, a great open fireplace with quaint tiles all round it.
整个房子的气氛就像夏天一样，劳里领着我们从一个房间走到另一个房间，让乔停下来检查她喜欢的东西。就这样，他们终于来到了图书馆，她在那里拍着手，欢腾雀跃，就像她在特别高兴的时候总是做的那样。里面摆满了书籍，还有图片和雕像，还有装满硬币和好奇心的令人分心的小柜子，还有断头谷椅子、奇怪的桌子和青铜器，最重要的是，一个巨大的开放式壁炉，周围铺着古色古香的瓷砖。 。

‘What richness!’ sighed Jo, sinking into the depth of a velour chair and gazing about her with an air of intense satisfaction. ‘Theodore Laurence, you ought to be the happiest boy in the world,’ she added impressively.
“多么丰富啊！”乔叹了口气，坐进天鹅绒椅子的深处，带着强烈满足的神情环顾四周。 “西奥多·劳伦斯，你应该是世界上最幸福的男孩，”她令人印象深刻地补充道。

‘A fellow can’t live on books,’ said Laurie, shaking his head as he perched on a table opposite.
“一个人不能靠书本生活，”劳里坐在对面的桌子上摇着头说道。

Before he could more, a bell rang, and Jo flew up, exclaiming with alarm, ‘Mercy me! It’s your grandpa!’
还没等他说完，铃声就响了，乔飞了起来，惊恐地喊道：“可怜我吧！”这是你的爷爷！

‘Well, what if it is? You are not afraid of anything, you know,’ returned the boy, looking wicked.
‘好吧，如果是的话怎么办？你知道，你什么都不怕。”男孩回答道，看上去很邪恶。

‘I think I am a little bit afraid of him, but I don’t know why I should be. Marmee said I might come, and I don’t think you’re any the worse for it,’ said Jo, composing herself, though she kept her eyes on the door.
“我想我有点害怕他，但我不知道为什么我应该害怕。妈妈说我可能会来，而且我认为你不会因此而变得更糟。”乔镇静下来说道，但她的眼睛一直盯着门。

‘I’m a great deal better for it, and ever so much obliged. I’m only afraid you are very tired of talking to me. It was so pleasant, I couldn’t bear to stop,’ said Laurie gratefully.
“我因此而受益匪浅，而且非常感激。我只是担心你厌倦了跟我说话。太愉快了，我不忍心停下来。”劳里感激地说。

‘The doctor to see you, sir,’ and the maid beckoned as she spoke.
“先生，医生来看您。”女仆边说边招手。

‘Would you mind if I left you for a minute? I suppose I must see him,’ said Laurie.
‘你介意我离开你一会儿吗？我想我必须见见他，”劳里说。

‘Don’t mind me. I’m happy as a cricket here,’ answered Jo.
‘别介意我。我在这里高兴得像只蟋蟀。”乔回答道。

Laurie went away, and his guest amused herself in her own way. She was standing before a fine portrait of the old gentleman when the door opened again, and without turning, she said decidedly, ‘I’m sure now that I shouldn’t be afraid of him, for he’s got kind eyes, though his mouth is grim, and he looks as if he had a tremendous will of his own. He isn’t as handsome as my grandfather, but I like him.’
劳里走了，他的客人以自己的方式自娱自乐。当门再次打开时，她正站在老绅士的精美肖像前，她没有转身，坚定地说：“我现在确信我不应该害怕他，因为他有一双善良的眼睛，虽然他的嘴面色冷酷，看上去有着巨大的自己的意志。他不像我祖父那么英俊，但我喜欢他。”

‘Thank you, ma’am,’ said a gruff voice behind her, and there, to her great dismay, stood old Mr. Laurence.
“谢谢您，女士，”她身后传来一个粗哑的声音，让她非常沮丧的是，老劳伦斯先生就站在那里。

Poor Jo blushed till she couldn’t blush any redder, and her heart began to beat uncomfortably fast as she thought what she had said. For a minute a wild desire to run away possessed her, but that was cowardly, and the girls would laugh at her, so she resolved to stay and get out of the scrape as she could. A second look showed her that the living eyes, under the bushy eyebrows, were kinder even than the painted ones, and there was a sly twinkle in them, which lessened her fear a good deal. The gruff voice was gruffer than ever, as the old gentleman said abruptly, after the dreadful pause, ‘So you’re not afraid of me, hey?’
可怜的乔脸红得不能再红了，当她想到自己所说的话时，她的心开始剧烈地跳动，令人不舒服。有一瞬间，她强烈地想要逃跑，但那是一种懦弱的行为，女孩们会嘲笑她，所以她决定留下来，尽可能摆脱困境。再看一眼，浓密的眉毛下那双活生生的眼睛甚至比画出来的还要和蔼，里面闪烁着狡黠的光芒，这让她的恐惧减轻了很多。粗哑的声音比以往任何时候都粗哑，在可怕的停顿之后，老绅士突然说道：“所以你不怕我，嘿？”

‘Not much, sir.’
“不多，先生。”

‘And you don’t think me as handsome as your grandfather?’
“你觉得我没有你祖父那么英俊吗？”

‘Not quite, sir.’
“不完全是，先生。”

‘And I’ve got a tremendous will, have I?’
“我有坚强的意志，不是吗？”

‘I only said I thought so.’
“我只是说我是这么想的。”

‘But you like me in spite of it?’
“但尽管如此，你还是喜欢我吗？”

‘Yes, I do, sir.’
“是的，我愿意，先生。”

That answer pleased the old gentleman. He gave a short laugh, shook hands with her, and, putting his finger under her chin, turned up her face, examined it gravely, and let it go, saying with a nod, ‘You’ve got your grandfather’s spirit, if you haven’t his face. He was a fine man, my dear, but what is better, he was a brave and an honest one, and I was proud to be his friend.’
这个回答让老先生很高兴。他短促地笑了一声，与她握手，然后用手指托住她的下巴，抬起她的脸，严肃地端详着她的脸，然后放手，点点头说：“你继承了你祖父的精神，如果你没有他的脸。他是一个好人，亲爱的，但更好的是，他是一个勇敢而诚实的人，我很自豪能成为他的朋友。

‘Thank you, sir,’ And Jo was quite comfortable after that, for it suited her exactly.
“谢谢您，先生。”之后乔就很舒服了，因为这完全适合她。

‘What have you been doing to this boy of mine, hey?’ was the next question, sharply put.
“你对我的这个男孩做了什么，嘿？”是下一个尖锐的问题。

‘Only trying to be neighborly, sir.’ And Jo to how her visit came about.
“只是想表现得友善一点，先生。”乔则讲述了她的来访是如何发生的。

‘You think he needs cheering up a bit, do you?’
“你认为他需要振作起来，是吗？”

‘Yes, sir, he seems a little lonely, and young folks would do him good perhaps. We are only girls, but we should be glad to help if we could, for we don’t forget the splendid Christmas present you sent us,’ said Jo eagerly.
“是的，先生，他看起来有点孤独，年轻人也许会对他有好处。我们只是女孩，但如果可以的话，我们应该很乐意帮忙，因为我们不会忘记你送给我们的精美圣诞礼物。”乔热切地说。

‘Tut, tut, tut! That was the boy’s affair. How is the poor woman?’
‘啧，啧，啧！那是男孩的事。那个可怜的女人怎么样了？

‘Doing nicely, sir.’ And off went Jo, talking very fast, as she told all about the Hummels, in whom her mother had interested richer friends than they were.
“做得很好，先生。”乔就走了，语速很快，她讲述了所有关于胡梅尔斯的事情，她母亲对他们有比他们更富有的朋友感兴趣。

‘Just her father’s way of doing good. I shall come and see your mother some fine day. Tell her so. There’s the tea bell, we have it early on the boy’s account. Come down and go on being neighborly.’
“这只是她父亲行善的方式。天气好的时候我会去看你妈妈。这么告诉她吧。这是茶铃，我们很早就记在了男孩的账上。下来继续睦邻友好。

‘If you’d like to have me, sir.’
“如果您愿意接受我的话，先生。”

‘Shouldn’t ask you, if I didn’t.’ And Mr. Laurence offered her his arm with old-fashioned courtesy.
“如果我不问的话，就不应该问你。”劳伦斯先生以老式的礼貌向她伸出了手臂。

‘What would Meg say to this?’ thought Jo, as she was marched away, while her eyes danced with fun as she imagined herself telling the story at home.
“梅格对此会怎么说？”当乔被带走时，乔想道，当她想象自己在家里讲述这个故事时，她的眼睛充满乐趣。

‘Hey! Why, what the dickens has come to the fellow?’ said the old gentleman, as Laurie came running downstairs and brought up with a start of surprise at the astounding sight of Jo arm in arm with his redoubtable grandfather.
'嘿！哎呀，狄更斯这个家伙怎么了？”劳里跑下楼时，老绅士问道，看到乔和他令人敬畏的祖父手挽手的惊人景象，他大吃一惊。

‘I didn’t know you’d come, sir,’ he began, as Jo gave him a triumphant little glance.
“我不知道你会来，先生，”他开口说道，乔得意地看了他一眼。

‘That’s evident, by the way you racket downstairs. Come to your tea, sir, and behave like a gentleman.’ And having pulled the boy’s hair by way of a caress, Mr. Laurence walked on, while Laurie went through a series of comic evolutions behind their backs, which nearly produced an explosion of laughter from Jo.
“从你在楼下吵闹的样子就可以看出这一点。来喝茶吧，先生，表现得像个绅士。”劳伦斯先生以爱抚的方式拉着男孩的头发，继续往前走，而劳里则在他们背后经历了一系列滑稽的演变，差点引发爆炸。乔的笑声。

The old gentleman did not say much as he drank his four cups of tea, but he watched the young people, who soon chatted away like old friends, and the change in his grandson did not escape him. There was color, light, and life in the boy’s face now, vivacity in his manner, and genuine merriment in his laugh.
老先生喝了四杯茶，没有多说什么，只是看着年轻人，很快他们就像老朋友一样聊了起来，他也没有忽视孙子的变化。现在男孩的脸上充满了色彩、光芒和活力，他的举止充满活力，他的笑声中充满了真正的快乐。

‘She’s right, the lad is lonely. I’ll see what these little girls can do for him,’ thought Mr. Laurence, as he looked and listened. He liked Jo, for her odd, blunt ways suited him, and she seemed to understand the boy almost as well as if she had been one herself.
‘她是对的，这小伙子很孤独。我会看看这些小女孩能为他做些什么，劳伦斯先生边看边听边想。他喜欢乔，因为她奇怪、直率的方式很适合他，而且她似乎理解这个男孩，就像她自己一样。

If the Laurences had been what Jo called ‘prim and poky’, she would not have got on at all, for such people always made her shy and awkward. But finding them free and easy, she was so herself, and made a good impression. When they rose she proposed to go, but Laurie said he had something more to show her, and took her away to the conservatory, which had been lighted for her benefit. It seemed quite fairylike to Jo, as she went up and down the walks, enjoying the blooming walls on either side, the soft light, the damp sweet air, and the wonderful vines and trees that hung about her, while her new friend cut the finest flowers till his hands were full. Then he tied them up, saying, with the happy look Jo liked to see, ‘Please give these to your mother, and tell her I like the medicine she sent me very much.’
如果劳伦斯一家是乔所说的“拘谨而狭隘”的人，她就根本无法相处，因为这样的人总是让她害羞和尴尬。但发现他们自由自在，她就是这样，给人留下了很好的印象。当他们起身时，她提出要走，但劳里说他还有更多东西要给她看，然后带她去了温室，温室已经为她点亮了。乔在人行道上走来走去，享受着两边盛开的墙壁、柔和的光线、潮湿甜美的空气，以及挂在她周围的美妙的藤蔓和树木，而她的新朋友则在修剪树木，这对乔来说似乎很童话。最好的鲜花，直到他的双手都满了。然后他把它们绑起来，用乔喜欢看到的幸福表情说：“请把这些给你妈妈，告诉她我非常喜欢她送我的药。”

They found Mr. Laurence standing before the fire in the great drawing room, by Jo’s attention was entirely absorbed by a grand piano, which stood open.
他们发现劳伦斯先生站在大客厅的火炉前，乔的注意力完全被一架敞开的三角钢琴吸引了。

‘Do you play?’ she asked, turning to Laurie with a respectful expression.
“你会玩吗？”她转向劳里，一脸恭敬地问道。

‘Sometimes,’ he answered modestly.
“有时候，”他谦虚地回答。

‘Please do now. I want to hear it, so I can tell Beth.’
‘请现在就做。我想听听，这样我就可以告诉贝丝。”

‘Won’t you first?’
“你不先吗？”

‘Don’t know how. Too stupid to learn, but I love music dearly.’
‘不知道怎么办。太笨了，学不会，但我非常喜欢音乐。”

So Laurie played and Jo listened, with her nose luxuriously buried in heliotrope and tea roses. Her respect and regard for the ‘Laurence’ boy increased very much, for he played remarkably well and didn’t put on any airs. She wished Beth could hear him, but she did not say so, only praised him till he was quite abashed, and his grandfather came to his rescue.
于是劳里演奏，乔聆听，她的鼻子奢侈地埋在天芥菜和茶玫瑰中。她对这个“劳伦斯”男孩的尊敬和尊重增加了很多，因为他打得非常好，而且没有任何架子。她希望贝丝能听到他的声音，但她没有说出来，只是称赞他，直到他羞愧难当，他的祖父才救了他。

‘That will do, that will do, young lady. too many sugarplums are not good for him. His music isn’t bad, but I hope he will do as well in more important things. Going? well, I’m much obliged to you, and I hope you’ll come again. My respects to your mother. Good night, Doctor Jo.’
‘这样就可以了，这样就可以了，年轻的女士。太多的糖李子对他不好。他的音乐还不错，但我希望他在更重要的事情上也能做得更好。去？嗯，我非常感谢你，希望你能再来。我向你母亲致以敬意。晚安，乔医生。”

He shook hands kindly, but looked as if something did not please him. When they got into the hall, Jo asked Laurie if she had said something amiss. He shook his head.
他友好地握了握手，但看上去好像有什么不高兴的样子。当他们走进大厅时，乔问劳里是否说错了什么。他摇摇头。

‘No, it was me. He doesn’t like to hear me play.’
‘不，是我。他不喜欢听我演奏。

‘Why not?’
'为什么不？'

‘I’ll tell you some day. John is going home with you, as I can’t.’ ‘No need of that. I am not a young lady, and it’s only a step. Take care of yourself, won’t you?’
‘有一天我会告诉你。约翰要和你一起回家，我不能。”我不是小姐，也只是一步而已。照顾好自己，好吗？

‘Yes, but you will come again, I hope?’
“是的，但我希望你会再来吗？”

‘If you promise to come and see us after you are well.’
“如果你答应康复后来看我们的话。”

‘I will.’
'我会。'

‘Good night, Laurie!’ ‘Good night, Jo, good night!’
“晚安，劳里！”“晚安，乔，晚安！”

When all the afternoon’s adventures had been told, the family felt inclined to go visiting in a body, for each found something very attractive in the big house on the other side of the hedge. Mrs. March wanted to talk of her father with the old man who had not forgotten him, Meg longed to walk in the conservatory, Beth sighed for the grand piano. and Amy was eager to see the fine pictures and statues.
当整个下午的冒险经历都讲完后，一家人决定一起去参观，因为每个人都在树篱另一边的大房子里发现了一些非常有吸引力的东西。马奇太太想和那位没有忘记他的老人谈论她的父亲，梅格渴望在温室里散步，贝丝叹息着要弹钢琴。艾米渴望看到精美的图画和雕像。

‘Mother, why didn’t Mr. Laurence like to have Laurie play?’ asked Jo, who was of an inquiring disposition.
“妈妈，为什么劳伦斯先生不喜欢让劳里玩？”乔问道，她的性格很好奇。

‘I am not sure, but I think it was because his son, Laurie’s father, married an Italian lady, a musician, which displeased the old man, who is very proud. The lady was good and lovely and accomplished, but he did not like her, and never saw his son after he married. They both died when Laurie was a little child, and then his grandfather took him home. I fancy the boy, who was born in Italy, is not very strong, and the old man is afraid of losing him, which makes him so careful. Laurie comes naturally by his love of music, for he is like his mother, and I dare say his grandfather fears that he may want to be a musician. At any rate, his skill reminds him of the woman he did not like, and so he ‘glowered’ as Jo said.’
“我不确定，但我认为这是因为他的儿子，劳里的父亲，娶了一位意大利女士，一位音乐家，这让老人很不高兴，他非常自豪。这位女士善良、可爱、多才多艺，但他不喜欢她，结婚后就再也没有见过他的儿子。当劳里还是个小孩子的时候，他们就双双去世了，然后他的祖父把他带回家。我看中这个出生在意大利的男孩，身体不是很强壮，而且老人害怕失去他，这让他如此小心。劳里天生热爱音乐，因为他就像他的母亲，我敢说他的祖父担心他可能想成为一名音乐家。无论如何，他的技巧让他想起了那个他不喜欢的女人，所以他像乔说的那样“怒目而视”。

‘Dear me, how romantic!’ exclaimed Meg.
“天哪，多浪漫啊！”梅格惊呼道。

‘How silly!’ said Jo. ‘Let him be a musician if he wants to, and not plague his life out sending him to college, when he hates to go.’
“真傻！”乔说。 “如果他愿意的话，就让他成为一名音乐家吧，而不是在他不愿意上大学的时候送他上大学，从而困扰他的生活。”

‘That’s why he has such handsome black eyes and pretty manners, I suppose. Italians are always nice,’ said Meg, who was a little sentimental.
“我想这就是为什么他有如此英俊的黑眼睛和漂亮的举止。”意大利人总是很友善。”梅格有点感伤地说。

‘What do you know about his eyes and his manners? You never spoke to him, hardly,’ cried Jo, who was not sentimental.
“你对他的眼睛和举止了解多少？你从来没有跟他说过话，几乎没有。”乔喊道，她并不多愁善感。

‘I saw him at the party, and what you tell shows that he knows how to behave. That was a nice little speech about the medicine Mother sent him.’
“我在聚会上见过他，你所说的表明他知道如何表现。这是关于母亲给他送的药的一个很好的小演讲。

‘He meant the blanc mange, I suppose.’ ‘How stupid you are, child! He meant you, of course.’
“我想他指的是白疥癣。”“你真傻，孩子！当然，他指的是你。

‘Did he?’ And Jo opened her eyes as if it had never occurred to her before.
“是吗？”乔睁开了眼睛，仿佛她以前从未想到过这一点。

‘I never saw such a girl! You don’t know a compliment when you get it,’ said Meg, with the air of a young lady who knew all about the matter.
‘我从来没有见过这样的女孩！ “当你得到赞美时，你不知道这是赞美。”梅格说道，语气就像一位对这件事了如指掌的年轻女士。

‘I think they are great nonsense, and I’ll thank you not to be silly and spoil my fun. Laurie’s a nice boy and I like him, and I won’t have any sentimental stuff about compliments and such rubbish. We’ll all be good to him because he hasn’t got any mother, and he may come over and see us, mayn’t he, Marmee?’
“我认为这些都是胡说八道，我会感谢你不要犯傻，破坏我的乐趣。劳里是个好男孩，我喜欢他，我不会有任何关于赞美之类的伤感的东西和这样的垃圾。我们都会对他好，因为他没有母亲，他可能会来看我们，不是吗，妈咪？

‘Yes, Jo, your little friend is very welcome, and I hope Meg will remember that children should be children as long as they can.’
“是的，乔，非常欢迎你的小朋友，我希望梅格会记住，孩子们应该尽可能地成为孩子。”

‘I don’t call myself a child, and I’m not in my teens yet,’ observed Amy. ‘What do you say, Beth?’
“我不称自己为孩子，而且我还不到十几岁，”艾米说。 “你说什么，贝丝？”

‘I was thinking about our ‘PILGRIM’S PROGRESS’,’ answered Beth, who had not heard a word. ‘How we got out of the Slough and through the Wicket Gate by resolving to be good, and up the steep hill by trying, and that maybe the house over there, full of splendid things, is going to be our Palace Beautiful.’
“我在想我们的‘天路历程’，”贝丝回答道，她什么也没听到。 “我们如何走出斯劳，通过检票门，下定决心做个好人，并通过努力爬上陡峭的山坡，也许那边的房子，充满了辉煌的东西，将成为我们美丽的宫殿。”

‘We have got to get by the lions first,’ said Jo, as if she rather liked the prospect.
“我们必须先摆脱狮子，”乔说道，好像她很喜欢这个前景。

CHAPTER SIX
第六章

The big house did prove a Palace Beautiful, though it took some time for all to get in, and Beth found it very hard to pass the lions. Old Mr. Laurence was the biggest one, but after he had called, said something funny or kind to each one of the girls, and talked over old times with their mother, nobody felt much afraid of him, except timid Beth. The other lion was the fact that they were poor and Laurie rich, for this made them shy of accepting favors which they could not return. But, after a while, they found that he considered them the benefactors, and could not do enough to show how grateful he was for Mrs. March’s motherly welcome, their cheerful society, and the comfort he took in that humble home of theirs. So they soon forgot their pride and interchanged kindnesses without stopping to think which was the greater.
这座大房子确实是一座美丽的宫殿，尽管所有人都花了一些时间才能进去，贝丝发现很难通过狮子。老劳伦斯先生是最大的一个，但是当他打电话给每个女孩，对每个女孩说了一些有趣或友善的话，并与她们的母亲谈论过去的时光后，除了胆怯的贝丝之外，没有人感到很害怕他。另一件事是他们很穷，而劳里很富有，因为这使他们羞于接受无法回报的恩惠。但是，过了一段时间，他们发现他把他们视为恩人，并且不遗余力地表达他对马奇夫人慈母般的欢迎、他们愉快的交往以及他在他们简陋的家里所得到的安慰的感激之情。于是，他们很快就忘记了骄傲，互相友善，没有停下来思考哪个更大。

All sorts of pleasant things happened about that time, for the new friendship flourished like grass in spring. Every one liked Laurie, and he privately informed his tutor that ‘the Marches were regularly splendid girls.’ With the delightful enthusiasm of youth, they took the solitary boy into their midst and made much of him, and he found something very charming in the innocent companionship of these simple-hearted girls. Never having known mother or sisters, he was quick to feel the influences they brought about him, and their busy, lively ways made him ashamed of the indolent life he led. He was tired of books, and found people so interesting now that Mr. Brooke was obliged to make very unsatisfactory reports, for Laurie was always playing truant and running over to the Marches’.
那段时间发生了各种令人愉快的事情，新的友谊像春天的小草一样蓬勃发展。每个人都喜欢劳里，他私下告诉他的导师，“马奇一家通常都是非常出色的女孩。”带着青春的令人愉快的热情，他们把这个孤独的男孩纳入他们之中，并很重视他，他在这个男孩身上发现了一些非常迷人的东西。这些心地单纯的女孩的天真陪伴。他从未认识过母亲和姐妹，很快就感受到了她们对他的影响，她们忙碌、活泼的生活方式让他为自己懒惰的生活感到羞愧。他厌倦了书本，现在发现人们如此有趣，以至于布鲁克先生不得不做出非常不满意的报告，因为劳里总是逃学并跑到马奇斯那里。

‘Never mind, let him take a holiday, and make it up afterward,’ said the old gentleman. ‘The good lady next door says he is studying too hard and needs young society, amusement, and exercise. I suspect she is right, and that I’ve been coddling the fellow as if I’d been his grandmother. Let him do what he likes, as long as he is happy. He can’t get into mischief in that little nunnery over there, and Mrs. March is doing more for him than we can.’
老先生道：“没关系，让他先放个假，然后再补吧。” “隔壁那位好心的女士说他学习太努力了，需要年轻的社会、娱乐和锻炼。”我怀疑她是对的，而且我一直在溺爱这个家伙，就像我是他的祖母一样。让他做他喜欢的事吧，只要他开心就好。他不能在那边的小修道院里胡闹，马奇太太为他做的事情比我们多。

What good times they had, to be sure. Such plays and tableaux, such sleigh rides and skating frolics, such pleasant evenings in the old parlor, and now and then such gay little parties at the great house. Meg could walk in the conservatory whenever she liked and revel in bouquets, Jo browsed over the new library voraciously, and convulsed the old gentleman with her criticisms, Amy copied pictures and enjoyed beauty to her heart’s content, and Laurie played ‘lord of the manor’ in the most delightful style.
可以肯定的是，他们度过了多么美好的时光。这样的戏剧和场景，这样的雪橇和滑冰嬉戏，在老客厅里度过的愉快的夜晚，以及时不时在大房子里举行的欢乐的小聚会。梅格可以随心所欲地在温室里散步，陶醉在花束中；乔如饥似渴地浏览新图书馆，批评得老绅士心惊肉跳；艾米临摹图画，尽情享受美；劳里扮演“庄园主”。以最令人愉快的方式。

But Beth, though yearning for the grand piano, could not pluck up courage to go to the ‘Mansion of Bliss’, as Meg called it. She went once with Jo, but the old gentleman, not being aware of her infirmity, stared at her so hard from under his heavy eyebrows, and said ‘Hey!’ so loud, that he frightened her so much her ‘feet chattered on the floor’, she never told her mother, and she ran away, declaring she would never go there any more, not even for the dear piano. No persuasions or enticements could overcome her fear, till, the fact coming to Mr. Laurence’s ear in some mysterious way, he set about mending matters. During one of the brief calls he made, he artfully led the conversation to music, and talked away about great singers whom he had seen, fine organs he had heard, and told such charming anecdotes that Beth found it impossible to stay in her distant corner, but crept nearer and nearer, as if fascinated. At the back of his chair she stopped and stood listening, with her great eyes wide open and her cheeks red with excitement of this unusual performance. Taking no more notice of her than if she had been a fly, Mr. Laurence talked on about Laurie’s lessons and teachers. And presently, as if the idea had just occurred to him, he said to Mrs. March...
但贝丝虽然渴望拥有一架三角钢琴，却无法鼓起勇气前往梅格所说的“极乐大厦”。她和乔一起去过一次，但是那位老先生没有意识到她的虚弱，从他浓密的眉毛下紧紧地盯着她，大声说“嘿！”，他把她吓坏了，她的“脚在地上打颤”。她从来没有告诉过她的母亲，然后她就逃跑了，并宣称她再也不会去那里了，即使是为了那架亲爱的钢琴。任何说服或诱惑都无法克服她的恐惧，直到这个事实以某种神秘的方式传到劳伦斯先生耳中，他开始着手解决问题。在他打的一次简短的电话中，他巧妙地把谈话引向音乐，谈论他见过的伟大歌手、他听过的好管风琴，并讲述了如此迷人的轶事，让贝丝发现不可能留在她遥远的角落，却越爬越近，仿佛着了迷。她在他的椅背上停下来，站着听，睁大着大眼睛，脸颊因为这次不寻常的表演而兴奋得通红。劳伦斯先生对她的关注就像对一只苍蝇一样，只是谈论了劳里的课程和老师。不久，他对马奇太太说……

‘The boy neglects his music now, and I’m glad of it, for he was getting too fond of it. But the piano suffers for want of use. Wouldn’t some of your girls like to run over, and practice on it now and then, just to keep it in tune, you know, ma‘am?’
“这个男孩现在忽视了他的音乐，我很高兴，因为他太喜欢音乐了。但钢琴因缺乏使用而受到影响。难道你的一些女孩不想跑过去，时不时地练习一下，只是为了保持节奏，你知道吗，女士？

Beth took a step forward, and pressed her hands tightly together to keep from clapping them, for this was an irresistible temptation, and the thought of practicing on that splendid instrument quite took her breath away. Before Mrs. March could reply, Mr. Laurence went on with an odd little nod and smile...
贝丝向前迈了一步，双手紧紧地握在一起，不让自己拍手，因为这是一种不可抗拒的诱惑，一想到要在这件精美的乐器上练习，她就屏住了呼吸。马奇夫人还没来得及回答，劳伦斯先生就继续奇怪地点点头，微笑着……

‘They needn’t see or speak to anyone, but run in at any time. For I’m shut up in my study at the other end of the house, Laurie is out a great deal, and the servants are never near the drawing room after nine o’clock.’
“他们不需要见任何人，也不需要和任何人说话，而是随时跑进来。因为我把自己关在房子另一端的书房里，劳里经常外出，而且仆人们九点钟以后从来不会靠近客厅。”

Here he rose, as if going, and Beth made up her mind to speak, for that last arrangement left nothing to be desired. ‘Please, tell the young ladies what I say, and if they don’t care to come, why, never mind.’ Here a little hand slipped into his, and Beth looked up at him with a face full of gratitude, as she said, in her earnest yet timid way...
他站了起来，仿佛要走，贝丝决定说话，因为最后的安排没有什么不满意的地方。 “请告诉年轻的女士们我说的话，如果她们不愿意来，为什么，没关系。” 这时，一只小手滑进了他的手中，贝丝抬头看着他，脸上充满了感激之情。她语气诚恳而又胆怯地说道……

‘Oh sir, they do care, very very much!’ ‘Are you the musical girl?’ he asked, without any startling ‘Hey!’ as he looked down at her very kindly.
“哦，先生，他们确实很关心，非常非常！”“你是那个音乐女孩吗？”他问道，没有任何令人惊讶的“嘿！”，他非常友善地低头看着她。

‘I’m Beth. I love it dearly, and I’ll come, if you are quite sure nobody will hear me, and be disturbed,’ she added, fearing to be rude, and trembling at her own boldness as she spoke.
“我是贝丝。我非常喜欢它，如果你确信没有人会听到我的声音，也不会被打扰，我就会来。”她补充道，她害怕自己变得粗鲁，说话时也为​​自己的大胆而颤抖。

‘Not a soul, my dear. The house is empty half the day, so come and drum away as much as you like, and I shall be obliged to you.’
“没有一个灵魂，亲爱的。房子半天都空着，你想怎么走就怎么来吧，我就谢谢你了。”

‘How kind you are, sir!’
“您真好，先生！”

Beth blushed like a rose under the friendly look he wore, but she was not frightened now, and gave the hand a grateful squeeze because she had no words to thank him for the precious gift he had given her. The old gentleman softly stroked the hair off her forehead, and, stooping down, he kissed herr, saying, in a tone few people ever heard...
在他友好的表情下，贝丝脸红得像玫瑰花一样，但她现在并不害怕，感激地握紧了他的手，因为她无话可说，感谢他送给她的珍贵礼物。老先生轻轻地抚摸着她额前的头发，弯下腰吻住了她，用很少有人听过的语气说道……

‘I had a little girl once, with eyes like these. God bless you, my dear! Good day. madam.’ And away he went, in a great hurry.
“我曾经有过一个小女孩，她的眼睛就是这样。上帝保佑你，亲爱的！再会。夫人。”说完他就匆匆离去了。

Beth had a rapture with her mother, and then rushed up to impart the glorious news to her family of invalids, as the girls were not home. How blithely she sang that evening, and how they all laughed at her because she woke Amy in the night by playing the piano on her face in her sleep. Next day, having seen both the old and young gentleman out of the house, Beth, after two or three retreats, fairly got in at the side door, and made her way as noiselessly as any mouse to the drawing room where her idol stood. Quite by accident, of course, some pretty, easy music lay on the piano, and with trembling fingers and frequent stops to listen and look about, Beth at last touched the great instrument, and straightway forgot her fear, herself, and everything else but the unspeakable delight which the music gave her, for it was like the voice of a beloved friend.
贝丝对她的母亲欣喜若狂，然后冲上去向她的病人家属传达这个好消息，因为女孩们不在家。那天晚上她唱得多么愉快，他们都嘲笑她，因为她在睡觉时在艾米脸上弹钢琴，吵醒了她。第二天，贝丝目送老先生和年轻先生走出家门，退了两三次之后，终于从侧门钻了进去，像老鼠一样悄无声息地走到了她的偶像所在的客厅。当然，很偶然的是，钢琴上放着一些优美、轻松的音乐，贝丝颤抖着手指，时不时地停下来听、看看，终于触摸到了这件伟大的乐器，立刻忘记了她的恐惧、她自己和其他一切，除了音乐给她带来了难以言表的喜悦，因为它就像一位挚友的声音。

She stayed till Hannah came to take her home to dinner, but she had no appetite, and could only sit and smile upon everyone in a general state of beatitude.
她一直待到汉娜来接她回家吃晚饭，但她没有胃口，只能坐着，以一种幸福的状态对每个人微笑。

After that, the little brown hood slipped through the hedge nearly every day, and the great drawing room was haunted by a tuneful spirit that came and went unseen. She never knew that Mr. Laurence opened his study door to hear the old-fashioned airs he liked. She never saw Laurie mount guard in the hall to warn the servants away. She never suspected that the exercise books and new songs which she found in the rack were put there for her especial benefit, and when he talked to her about music at home, she only thought how kind he was to tell things that helped her so much. So she enjoyed herself heartily, and found, what isn’t always the case, that her granted wish was all she had hoped. Perhaps it was because she was so grateful for this blessing that a greater was given her. At any rate she deserved both. ‘Mother, I’m going to work Mr. Laurence a pair of slippers. He is so kind to me, I must thank him, and I don’t know any other way. Can I do it?’ asked Beth, a few weeks after that eventful call of his.
从那以后，棕色的小兜帽几乎每天都会从树篱中滑过，大客厅里就被一种不知来去去去的优美旋律所困扰。她从来不知道劳伦斯先生打开书房门是为了听他喜欢的老式曲调。她从未见过劳里在大厅里站岗警告仆人离开。她从来没有想到，她在架子上找到的练习册和新歌是为了她特别的利益而放在那里的，而当他在家里和她谈论音乐时，她只觉得他是多么善良，告诉了那些对她有很大帮助的事情。 。于是，她尽情享受，却发现，情况并非总是如此，她所希望的一切都如愿以偿。也许是因为她非常感激这份祝福，所以才给了她更大的祝福。无论如何，她都应得的。 “妈妈，我要去给劳伦斯先生做一双拖鞋。”他对我这么好，我必须感谢他，我不知道还有什么办法。 “我能做到吗？”贝丝在他打来电话的几周后问道。

‘Yes, dear. It will please him very much, and be a nice way of thanking him. The girls will help you about them, and I will pay for the making up,’ replied Mrs. March, who took peculiar pleasure in granting Beth’s requests because she so seldom asked anything for herself.
'是的亲爱的。这会让他非常高兴，也是感谢他的好方法。女孩们会帮你做这些事，我会付化妆费。”马奇太太回答道，她特别高兴地答应了贝丝的请求，因为她很少为自己提出任何要求。

After many serious discussions with Meg and Jo, the pattern was chosen, the materials bought, and the slippers begun. A cluster of grave yet cheerful pansies on a deeper purple ground was pronounced very appropriate and pretty, and beth worked away early and late, with occasional lifts over hard parts. She was a nimble little needlewoman, and they were finished before anyone got tired of them. Then she wrote a short, simple note, and with Laurie’s help, got them smuggled onto the study table one morning before the old gentleman was up.
经过与梅格和乔的多次认真讨论，选择了图案，购买了材料，然后开始制作拖鞋。深紫色的地面上有一簇庄严而欢快的三色堇，被认为非常合适和漂亮，贝丝早晚都在工作，偶尔会在坚硬的部分上举起东西。她是个敏捷的小女裁缝，在有人厌倦之前就完成了。然后她写了一张简短的便条，并在劳里的帮助下，在老先生起床前的一天早上把它们偷偷放在了学习桌上。

When this excitement was over, Beth waited to see what would happen. All day passed a a part of the next before any acknowledgement arrived, and she was beginning to fear she had offended her crochety friend. On the afternoon of the second day, she went out to do an errand, and give poor Joanna, the invalid doll, her daily exercise. As she came up the street, on her return, she saw three, yes, four heads popping in and out of the parlor windows, and the moment they saw her, several hands were waved, and several joyful voices screamed...
当这种兴奋结束后，贝丝等着看会发生什么。一整天过去了，直到收到任何确认信息，她开始担心自己冒犯了她的钩针朋友。第二天下午，她出去办事，给可怜的乔安娜这个残疾娃娃做日常锻炼。当她沿着街道走来时，回来时，她看到三个，是的，四个头从客厅的窗户里探进探出，他们一看到她，就有几只手挥舞着，几个欢快的声音尖叫起来……

‘Here’s a letter from the old gentleman! Come quick, and read it!’
“这是老先生的一封信！快来读吧！

‘Oh, Beth, he’s sent you...’ began Amy, gesticulating with unseemly energy, but she got no further, for Jo quenched her by slamming down the window.
“哦，贝丝，他派你来了……”艾米开始说，用力地打着手势，但她没有再说下去，因为乔关上窗户让她安静下来。

Beth hurried on in a flutter of suspense. At the door her sisters seized and bore her to the parlor in a triumphal procession, all pointing and all saying at once, ‘Look there! Look there!’ Beth did look, and turned pale with delight and surprise, for there stood a little cabinet piano, with a letter lying on the glossy lid, directed like a sign board to ‘Miss Elizabeth March.’
贝丝心中忐忑不安，赶紧继续前行。在门口，她的姐妹们抓住她，以胜利的行列将她带到客厅，所有人都指着她，同时说道：“看那里！贝丝确实看了，她的脸色因喜悦和惊讶而变得苍白，因为那里放着一架小柜式钢琴，光滑的盖子上放着一封信，就像一块写着“伊丽莎白·马奇小姐”的标牌。

‘For me?’ gasped Beth, holding onto Jo and feeling as if she should tumble down, it was such an overwhelming thing altogether.
“为了我？”贝丝喘着气说，她抓住了乔，感觉自己好像要摔倒了，这实在是一件令人难以承受的事情。

‘Yes, all for you, my precious! Isn’t it splendid of him? Don’t you think he’s the dearest old man in the world? Here’s the key in the letter. We didn’t open it, but we are dying to know what he says,’ cried Jo, hugging her sister and offering the note.
‘是的，一切都是为了你，我的宝贝！他不是很出色吗？你不认为他是世界上最亲爱的老人吗？这是信中的关键。我们没有打开它，但我们很想知道他说了什么，”乔哭着拥抱她的妹妹，递上纸条。

‘You read it! I can’t, I feel so queer! Oh, it is too lovely!’ and Beth hid her face in Jo’s apron, quite upset by her present.
‘你读了它！我不能，我感觉自己很奇怪！哦，太可爱了！”贝丝把脸埋在乔的围裙里，对她的礼物感到非常不安。

Jo opened the paper and began to laugh, for the first worked she saw were...
乔打开报纸，开始大笑，因为她看到的第一个作品是……

‘Miss March: ‘Dear Madam—‘ ‘How nice it sounds! I wish someone would write to me so!’ said Amy, who thought the old-fashioned address very elegant.
“马奇小姐：‘亲爱的女士——’‘听起来多好啊！我希望有人能这样写信给我！”艾米说，她觉得这个老式的地址很优雅。

‘I have had many pairs of slippers in my life, but I never had any that suited me so well as yours, ‘’ continues Jo. ‘Heartsease is my favorite flower, and these will always remind me of the gentle giver. I like to pay my debts, so I know you will allow ‘the old gentleman’ to send you something which once belonged to the little grand daughter he lost. With hearty thanks and best wishes, I remain ‘Your grateful friend and humble servant, ‘JAMES LAURENCE’
“我一生中穿过很多双拖鞋，但从来没有一双比你的更适合我的，”乔继续说道。 “心色是我最喜欢的花，这些花总是让我想起温柔的给予者。我喜欢还债，所以我知道你会允许‘老先生’送你一些曾经属于他失去的小孙女的东西。怀着衷心的感谢和最美好的祝愿，我仍然是“您感激的朋友和谦卑的仆人，‘詹姆斯·劳伦斯’”

‘There, Beth, that’s an honor to be proud of, I’m sure! Laurie told me how fond Mr.Laurence used to be of the child who died, and how he kept all her little things carefully. Just think, he’s given you her piano. That comes of having big blue eyes and loving music,’ said Jo, trying to soothe Beth, who trembled and looked more excited than she had ever been before.
“贝丝，我确信这是一种值得骄傲的荣幸！劳里告诉我，劳伦斯先生曾经多么喜爱死去的孩子，以及他如何小心翼翼地保管着她所有的小东西。想想看，他给了你她的钢琴。这是因为她有一双蓝色的大眼睛和热爱音乐。”乔试图安抚贝丝，她浑身颤抖，看上去比以前更加兴奋。

‘See the cunning brackets to hold candles, and the nice green sild, puckered up, with a gold rose in the middle, and the pretty rack and stool, all complete,’ added Meg, opening the instrument and displaying its beauties.
“看看那些用来固定蜡烛的巧妙的支架，还有漂亮的绿色泥土，褶皱起来，中间有一朵金色的玫瑰，还有漂亮的架子和凳子，一切都完成了，”梅格补充道，打开了乐器，展示了它的美丽。

‘Your humble servant, James Laurence’. Only think of his writing that to you. I’ll tell the girls. They’ll think it’s splendid,’ said Amy, much impressed by the note.
“您卑微的仆人，詹姆斯·劳伦斯”。想想他写给你的那句话。我会告诉女孩们。他们会认为这太棒了，”艾米说，这张纸条给她留下了深刻的印象。

‘Try it, honey. Let’s hear the sound of the baby pianny,’ said Hannah, who always took a share in the family joys and sorrows.
‘试试吧，亲爱的。让我们听听婴儿钢琴的声音吧。”汉娜说，她总是分享家庭的欢乐和悲伤。

So Beth tried it, and everyone pronounced it the most remarkable piano ever heard. It had evidently been newly tuned and put in applepie order, but, perfect as it was, I think the real charm lay in the happiest of all happy faces which leaned over it, as Beth lovingly touched the beautiful black and white keys and pressed the bright pedals.
于是贝丝尝试了它，每个人都称赞它是有史以来最出色的钢琴。它显然是经过新调音并按苹果派顺序排列的，但是，尽管它很完美，我认为真正的魅力在于俯身在它上面的所有幸福的面孔中最幸福的，当贝丝深情地触摸着美丽的黑白琴键并按下了明亮的踏板。

‘You’ll have to go and thank him,’ said Jo, by way of a joke, for the idea of the child’s really going never entered her head.
“你得去感谢他，”乔开玩笑地说，因为她从来没有想过孩子真的会去。

‘Yes, I mean to. I guess I’ll go no, before I get frightened thinking about it.’ And, to the utter amazement of the assembled family, Beth walked deliberately down the garden, through the hedge, and in at the Laurences’ door.
” “是的，我的意思是。我想我会拒绝，否则我会因为想到这件事而感到害怕。”而且，令聚集在一起的家人完全惊讶的是，贝丝故意沿着花园走去，穿过树篱，来到劳伦斯家的门口。

‘Well, I wish I may die if it ain’t the queerest thing I ever see! The pianny has turned her head! She’d never have gone in her right mind,’ cried Hannah, staring after her, while the girls were rendered quite speechless by the miracle.
“好吧，如果这不是我见过的最奇怪的事情的话，我希望我可以死掉！”皮妮已经转过头来了！ “她永远不会神志清醒。”汉娜盯着她的身后喊道，而女孩们则被这个奇迹弄得说不出话来。

They would have been still more amazed if they had seen what Beth did afterward. If you will believe me, she went and knocked at the study door before she gave herself time to think, and when a gruff voice called out, ‘come in!’ she did go in, right up to Mr. Laurence, who looked quite taken aback, and held out her hand, saying, with only a small quaver in her voice, ‘I came to thank you, sir, for...’ But she didn’t finish, for he looked so friendly that she forgot her speech and, only remembering that he had lost the little girl he loved, she put both arms round his neck and kissed him.
如果他们看到贝丝后来所做的事情，一定会更加惊讶。如果你相信我的话，她还没来得及思考，就去敲了书房的门，当一个粗鲁的声音喊道：“进来！”时，她确实进去了，一直走到劳伦斯先生面前，他看起来很平静。她吃了一惊，伸出手，声音里只有一点点颤抖，“我是来感谢您的，先生，因为……”但她没有说完，因为他看起来很友善，以至于她忘记了她。她只记得他失去了他所爱的小女孩，便用双臂搂住他的脖子，吻了他。

If the roof of the house had suddenly flown off, the old gentleman wouldn’t have been more astonished. But he liked it. Oh, dear, yes, he liked it amazingly! And was so touched and pleased by that confiding little kiss that all his crustiness vanished, and he just set her on his knee, and laid his wrinkled cheek against her rosy one, feeling as if he had got his own little grand daughter back again. Beth ceased to fear him from that moment, and sat there talking to him as cozily as if she had known him all her life, for love casts out fear, and gratitude can conquer pride. When she went home, he walked with her to her own gate, shook hands cordially, and touched his hat as he marched back again, looking very stately and erect, like a handsome, soldierly old gentleman, as he was.
如果房子的屋顶突然飞走，老先生也不会更加惊讶。但他喜欢它。哦，天哪，是的，他非常喜欢它！这个信任的小吻让他如此感动和高兴，他所有的暴躁都消失了，他只是把她放在膝盖上，把布满皱纹的脸颊贴在她红润的脸颊上，感觉好像他又找回了自己的小孙女。从那一刻起，贝丝不再害怕他，而是坐在那里与他亲切地交谈，仿佛她已经认识他一辈子了，因为爱可以驱除恐惧，感恩可以战胜骄傲。当她回家时，他陪她走到自家门口，亲切地握手，摸了摸帽子，然后又大步走回来，看上去十分威严挺拔，就像一位英俊的、军人般的老绅士。

When the girls saw that performance, Jo began to dance a jig, by way of expressing her satisfaction, Amy nearly fell out of the window in her surprise, and Meg exclaimed, with up-lifted hands, ‘Well, I do believe the world is coming to an end.
当女孩们看到表演时，乔开始跳吉格舞，以表达她的满意，艾米惊讶得差点从窗外掉下来，梅格举起双手惊呼，“好吧，我确实相信这个世界”即将结束。

CHAPTER SEVEN
第七章

‘That boy is a perfect cyclops, isn’t he?’ said Amy one day, as Laurie clattered by on horseback, with a flourish of his whip as he passed.
“那个男孩是个完美的独眼巨人，不是吗？”有一天，劳里骑在马背上，挥舞着鞭子，叮叮当当地经过，艾米说道。

‘How dare you say so, when he’s got both his eyes? And very handsome ones they are, too,’ cried Jo, who resented any slighting remarks about her friend.
‘当他有双眼的时候，你怎么敢这么说？而且它们也非常英俊。”乔喊道，她讨厌任何对她朋友的轻蔑评论。

‘I didn’t day anything about his eyes, and I don’t see why you need fire up when I admire his riding.’
“我对他的眼睛没有任何兴趣，我不明白为什么当我欣赏他的骑术时你需要兴奋。”

‘Oh, my goodness! That little goose means a centaur, and she called him a Cyclops,’ exclaimed Jo, with a burst of laughter. ‘You needn’t be so rude, it’s only a ‘lapse of lingy’, as Mr. Davis says,’ retorted Amy, finishing Jo with her Latin. ‘I just wish I had a little of the money Laurie spends on that horse,’ she added, as if to herself, yet hoping her sisters would hear.
'哦，我的天啊！那只小鹅的意思是半人马，她称他为独眼巨人。”乔大笑起来。 “你不必这么粗鲁，正如戴维斯先生所说，这只是‘失误’，”艾米反驳道，用拉丁语给乔讲完。 “我只是希望我能分得一点劳里花在那匹马上的钱，”她补充道，仿佛自言自语，但她希望她的姐妹们能听到。

‘Why?’ asked Meg kindly, for Jo had gone off in another laugh at Amy’s second blunder.
“为什么？”梅格和蔼地问道，因为乔又因为艾米的第二个错误而大笑起来。

‘I need it so much. I’m dreadfully in debt, and it won’t be my turn to have the rag money for a month.’
‘我非常需要它。我负债累累，一个月的零花钱都轮不到我。”

‘In debt, Amy? What do you mean?’ And Meg looked sober.
‘艾米，欠债了吗？你是什​​么意思？”梅格看起来很清醒。

‘Why, I owe at least a dozen pickled limes, and I can’t pay them, you know, till I have money, for Marmee forbade my having anything charged at the shop.’
“哎呀，我至少欠了一打腌酸橙，你知道，除非我有钱，否则我无法还清它们，因为妈妈禁止我在店里收取任何费用。”

‘Tell me all about it. Are limes the fashion now? It used to be pricking bits of rubber to make balls.’ And Meg tried to keep her countenance, Amy looked so grave and important.
‘告诉我一切。现在酸橙流行吗？以前是用刺破橡胶块来制作球的。”梅格努力保持着自己的表情，艾米看起来那么严肃而重要。

‘Why, you see, the girls are always buying them, and unless you want to be thought mean, you must do it too. It’s nothing but limes now, for everyone is sucking them in their desks in schooltime, and trading them off for pencils, bead rings, paper dolls, or something else, at recess. If one girl likes another, she gives her a lime. If she’s mad with her, she eats one before her face, and doesn’t offer even a suck. They treat by turns, and I’ve had ever so many but haven’t returned them, and I ought for they are debts of honor, you know.’
‘为什么，你看，女孩们总是买它们，除非你想被认为是卑鄙的，否则你也必须这么做。现在只剩下酸橙了，因为上学时每个人都把它们吸进课桌上，课间休息时用它们换铅笔、珠圈、纸娃娃或其他东西。如果一个女孩喜欢另一个女孩，她就会给她一颗酸橙。如果她生她的气，她就会当面吃掉一个，甚至不吸一口。他们轮流招待，我曾经有过这么多，但还没有归还，我应该归还，因为它们是荣誉债，你知道。

‘How much will pay them off and restore your credit?’ asked Meg, taking out her purse.’
“多少钱才能还清他们并恢复你的信用？”梅格拿出钱包问道。

‘A quarter would more than do it, and leave a few cents over for a treat for you. Don’t you like limes?’
“四分之一的钱就足够了，还可以留几美分给你请客。”你不喜欢酸橙吗？

‘Not much. You may have my share. Here’s the money. Make it last as long as you can, for it isn’t very plenty, you know.’
'不多。你可能有我的一份。这是钱。让它持续尽可能长的时间，因为它不是很多，你知道。

‘Oh, thank you! It must be so nice to have pocket money! I’ll have a grand feast, for I haven’t tasted a lime this week. I felt delicate about taking any, as I couldn’t return them, and I’m actually suffering for one.’
'哦谢谢！有零用钱一定很幸福吧！我要吃一顿丰盛的盛宴，因为这周我还没尝过酸橙。我对拿走任何东西都感到很微妙，因为我无法归还它们，而且我实际上正在为一件东西而受苦。

Next day Amy was rather late at school, but could not resist the temptation of displaying, with pardonable pride, a moist brown-paper parcel, before she consigned it to the inmost recesses of her desk. During the next few minutes the rumor that Amy March had got twentyfour delicious limes (she ate one on the way) and was going to treat circulated through her ‘set’, and the attentions of her friends became quite overwhelming. Katy Brown invited her to her next party on the spot. Mary Kinglsey insisted on lending her her watch till recess, and Jenny Snow, a satirical young lady, who had basely twitted Amy upon her limeless state, promptly buried the hatchet and offered to furnish answers to certain appalling sums. But Amy had not forgotten Miss Snow’s cutting remarks about ‘some persons whose noses were not too flat to smell other people’s limes, and stuck-up people who were not too proud to ask for them’, and she instantly crushed ‘that Snow girl’s’ hopes by the withering telegram, ‘You needn’t be so polite all of a sudden, for you won’t get any.’
第二天，艾米上学迟到了，但她无法抗拒诱惑，带着可以原谅的骄傲，展示了一个潮湿的牛皮纸包裹，然后把它放进了桌子最深处。在接下来的几分钟里，关于艾米·马奇得到了二十四个美味酸橙（她在路上吃了一个）并且要请客的谣言在她的“圈子”中流传开来，她的朋友们的关注变得势不可挡。凯蒂·布朗当场邀请她参加下一场聚会。玛丽·金赛坚持把手表借给她直到课间休息，而珍妮·斯诺，一位讽刺的年轻女士，曾卑鄙地嘲笑艾米的无知状态，很快就和解了，并提出对某些令人震惊的金额提供答案。但艾米没有忘记斯诺小姐的尖酸刻薄的言论，“有些人的鼻子不太平，不能闻别人的酸橙味，还有一些自大的人，不太骄傲，不能要求他们”，她立即粉碎了“那个雪姑娘” ”通过那封令人沮丧的电报希望，“你不必突然这么有礼貌，因为你不会得到任何东西。

A distinguished personage happened to visit the school that morning, and Amy’s beautifully drawn maps received praise, which honor to her foe rankled in the soul of Miss Snow, and caused Miss March to assume the airs of a studious young peacock. But, alas, alas! Pride goes before a fall, and the revengeful Snow turned the tables with disastrous success. No sooner had the guest paid the usual stale compliments and bowed himself out, than Jenny, under pretense of asking an important question, informed Mr. Davis, the teacher, that Amy March had pickled limes in her desk.
那天早上，学校里碰巧有一位杰出人士来访，艾米绘制的精美地图受到了赞扬，这种对敌人的荣誉刺痛了斯诺小姐的灵魂，让马奇小姐摆出一副好学的小孔雀的样子。但是，唉，唉！骄傲先于失败，复仇心切的斯诺以灾难性的成功扭转了局面。客人一如往常地表示了陈词滥调的恭维，然后退出了，珍妮就假装要问一个重要问题，告诉老师戴维斯先生，艾米·马奇在她的桌子上腌了酸橙。

Now Mr. Davis had declared limes a contraband article, and solemnly vowed to publicly ferrule the first person who was found breaking the law. This much-enduring man had succeeded in banishing chewing gum after a long and stormy war, had made a bonfire of the confiscated novels and newspapers, had suppressed a private post office, had forbidden distortions of the face, nicknames, and caricatures, and done all that one man could do to keep half a hundred rebellious girls in order. Boys are trying enough to human patience, goodness knows, but girls are infinitely more so, especially to nervous gentlemen with tyrannical tempers and no more talent for teaching than Dr. Blimber. Mr. Davis knew any quantity of Greek, Latin, algebra, and ologies of all sorts so he was called a fine teacher, and manners, morals, feelings, and examples were not considered of any particular importance. It was a most unfortunate moment for denouncing Amy, and Jenny knew it. Mr. Davis had evidently taken his coffee too strong that morning, there was an east wind, which always affected his neuralgia, and his pupils had not done him the credit which he felt he deserved. Therefore, to use the expressive, if not elegant, language of a schoolgirl, ‘He was as nervous as a witch and as cross as a bear”. The word ‘limes’ was like fire to powder, his yellow face flushed, and he rapped on his desk with an energy which made Jenny skip to her seat with unusual rapidity.
现在，戴维斯先生宣布酸橙为违禁品，并郑重发誓要公开逮捕第一个被发现违法的人。这位忍耐力强的人在经历了一场漫长而暴风雨的战争后，成功地禁止了口香糖，把没收的小说和报纸点燃了篝火，镇压了一家私人邮局，禁止扭曲面孔、绰号和漫画，并做到了这一点。一个男人能做的就是让半百个叛逆的女孩保持秩序。天知道，男孩们已经尽了最大的努力去培养人类的耐心，但女孩们更是如此，尤其是对于那些脾气暴躁、没有比布林伯博士更有教学天赋的神经质绅士。戴维斯先生精通希腊语、拉丁语、代数和各种学问，因此他被称为一位优秀的老师，而礼仪、道德、情感和例子并不被认为有任何特别的重要性。这是谴责艾米的最不幸的时刻，珍妮知道这一点。戴维斯先生那天早上显然喝得太浓了，还有东风，这总是影响他的神经痛，而他的学生并没有给他带来他认为应得的荣誉。因此，用女学生富有表现力的（即使不是优雅的）语言来说，“他像女巫一样紧张，像熊一样生气”。 “酸橙”这个词就像火烧成粉末，他的黄脸涨得通红，他用力地敲着桌子，让珍妮异常迅速地跳到座位上。

‘Young ladies, attention, if you please!’
“年轻女士们，请注意！”

At the stern order the buzz ceased, and fifty pairs of blue, black, gray, and brown eyes were obediently fixed upon his awful countenance.
随着严厉的命令，嗡嗡声停止了，五十双蓝色、黑色、灰色和棕色的眼睛乖乖地盯着他那张可怕的脸。

‘Miss March, come to the desk.’
“马奇小姐，到服务台来。”

Amy rose to comply with outward composure, but a secret fear oppressed her, for the limes weighed upon her conscience.
艾米站起身来，表面上表现得很镇定，但内心深处的恐惧却压迫着她，因为她的良心沉重地压着。

‘Bring with you the limes you have in your desk,’ was the unexpected command which arrested her before she got out of her seat.
“把你桌子上的酸橙带过来。”在她离开座位之前，这出人意料的命令让她停下来。

‘Don’t take all.’ whispered her neighbor, a young lady of great presence of mind.
“不要全部拿走。”她的邻居低声说道，她是一位头脑冷静的年轻女士。

Amy hastily shook out half a dozen and laid the rest down before Mr. Davis, feeling that any man possessing a human heart would relent when that delicious perfume met his nose. Unfortunately, Mr. Davis particularly detested the odor of the fashionable pickle, and disgust added to his wrath.
艾米急忙拿出六打，把剩下的放在戴维斯先生面前，她觉得任何一个拥有一颗人心的男人，当那股美味的香水闻到他的鼻子时，都会心软。不幸的是，戴维斯先生特别厌恶这种流行泡菜的气味，而厌恶又增加了他的愤怒。

‘Is that all?’
'这就是全部？'

‘Not quite,’ stammered Amy.
“不完全是，”艾米结结巴巴地说。

‘Bring the rest immediately.’
“立即把剩下的人带来。”

With a despairing glance at her set, she obeyed.
她绝望地看了一眼自己的队伍，服从了。

‘You are sure there are no more?’
“你确定没有更多的了吗？”

‘I never lie, sir.’
“我从不说谎，先生。”

‘So I see. Now take these disgusting things two by two, and throw them out of the window.’
‘所以我明白了。现在把这些恶心的东西两个两个地拿出来，扔出窗外。”

There was a simultaneous sigh, which created quite a little gust, as the last hope fled, and the treat was ravished from their longing lips. Scarlet with shame and anger, Amy went to and fro six dreadful times, and as each doomed couple, looking oh, so plump and juicy, fell from her reluctant hands, a shout from the street completed the anguish of the girls, for it told them that their feast was being exulted over by the little Irish children, who were their sworn foes. This—this was too much. All flashed indignant or appealing glances at the inexorable Davis, and one passionate lime lover burst into tears.
同时一声叹息，产生了一阵阵阵阵阵阵阵阵阵阵阵阵阵一阵阵阵阵一阵阵阵阵阵一阵阵一阵阵一阵阵阵阵一阵阵一阵阵一阵阵一阵阵一阵阵一阵阵一阵阵一阵阵一阵阵一阵阵一阵阵一阵阵阵阵阵阵阵阵阵阵阵阵阵阵阵阵风风的狂风）的风”的叹息声，最后一丝希望也破灭了，而美食也被从他们渴望的嘴唇上夺走了。艾米因羞愧和愤怒而脸色猩红，来来回回了六次可怕的事情，当每一对注定要失败的夫妇从她不情愿的手中跌落时，从街上传来的一声喊叫结束了女孩们的痛苦，因为它告诉我们他们知道爱尔兰小孩子们正在庆祝他们的盛宴，他们是他们的不共戴天的敌人。这——这太过分了。所有人都向冷酷无情的戴维斯投来愤怒或恳求的目光，一位热情的酸橙爱好者泪流满面。

As Amy returned from her last trip, Mr. Davis gave a portentous ‘Hem!’ and said, in his most impressive manner...
当艾米从上次旅行回来时，戴维斯先生不祥地“哼！”并以他最令人印象深刻的方式说道……

‘Young ladies, you remember what I said to you a week ago. I am sorry this has happened, but I never allow my rules to be infringed, and I never break my word. Miss March, hold out your hand.’
“年轻女士们，你们还记得我一周前对你们说的话吗？我很抱歉发生这样的事，但我绝不允许有人违反我的规则，我也绝不食言。马奇小姐，伸出你的手。

Amy started, and put both hands behind her, turning on him an imploring look which pleaded for her better than the words she could not utter. She was rather a favorite with ‘old Davis’, as, of course, he was called, and it’s my private belief that he would have broken his word if the indignation of one irrepressible young lady had not found vent in a hiss. That hiss, faint as it was, irritated the irascible gentleman, and sealed the culprit’s fate.
艾米吃了一惊，双手放在身后，用恳求的眼神看着他，这比她无法说出的话更能恳求她。她很受“老戴维斯”的喜爱，当然，他就是这样被称呼的，而且我个人认为，如果一位无法抑制的年轻女士的愤怒没有在嘶嘶声中得到发泄，他就会食言。那嘶嘶声虽然微弱，但却激怒了这位暴躁的绅士，并决定了罪魁祸首的命运。

‘Your hand, Miss March!’ was the only answer her mute appeal received, and too proud to cry or beseech, Amy set her teeth, threw bach her head defiantly, and bore without flinching several tingling blows on her little palm. They were neither many nor heavy, but that made no difference to her. For the first time in her life she had been struck, and the disgrace, in her eyes, was as deep as if he had knocked her down.
“你的手，马奇小姐！”这是她无声的哀求得到的唯一答案，艾米太骄傲了，无法哭泣或恳求，她咬紧牙关，挑衅地摇摇头，毫不退缩地在她的小手掌上承受了几下刺痛的打击。它们不多也不重，但这对她来说没有什么区别。她生平第一次被人打，眼里的耻辱深沉得就像是他把她打倒了一样。

‘You will now stand on the platform till recess,’ said Mr. Davis, resolved to do the thing thoroughly, since he had begun.
“你们现在要站在讲台上直到下课，”戴维斯先生说，既然他已经开始了，他就决心彻底地完成这件事。

That was dreadful. It would have been bad enough to go to her seat, and see the pitying faces of her friends, or the satisfied ones of her few enemies, but to face the whole school, with that shame fresh upon her, seemed impossible, and for a second she felt as if she could only drop down where she stood, and break her heart with crying. A bitter sense of wrong and the thought of Jenny Snow helped her to bear it, and, taking the ignominious place, she fixed her eyes on the stove funnel above what now seemed a sea of faces, and stood there, so motionless and white that the girls found it hard to study with that pathetic figure before them.
那太可怕了。坐在她的座位上，看到她的朋友们怜悯的面孔，或者她为数不多的敌人满意的面孔，这已经够糟糕的了，但面对整个学校，带着新鲜的耻辱，似乎是不可能的，而且对于一个人来说，这是不可能的。第二次，她觉得自己只能倒在原地，痛哭流涕，心碎了。一种痛苦的错误感和对珍妮·斯诺的思念帮助她忍受了这种感觉，然后，她站在了那个不光彩的地方，眼睛盯着炉子漏斗，上面的人像海洋一样​​，站在那里，一动不动，脸色苍白，面对眼前这个可悲的人物，女孩们很难学习。

During the fifteen minutes that followed, the proud and sensitive little girl suffered a shame and pain which she never forgot. To others it might seem a ludicrous or trivial affair, but to her it was a hard experience, for during the twelve years of her life she had been governed by love alone, and a blow of that sort had never touched her before. The smart of her hand and the ache of her heart were forgotten in the sting of the thought, ‘I shall have to tell at home, and they will be so disappointed in me!’
接下来的十五分钟里，这个骄傲而敏感的小女孩承受着一种令她永生难忘的耻辱和痛苦。在别人看来，这可能是一件可笑或微不足道的事情，但对她来说，这是一次痛苦的经历，因为在她生命的十二年里，她一直被爱情所支配，这样的打击从来没有触及过她。一想到“我必须在家里告诉他们，他们会对我非常失望！”，她就忘记了手上的刺痛和心上的疼痛。

The fifteen minutes seemed an hour, but they came to an end at last, and the word ‘Recess!’ had never seemed so welcome to her before.
十五分钟仿佛一个小时，但终于结束了，“下课！”这个词对她来说从未如此受欢迎。

‘You can go, Miss March,’ said Mr. Davis, looking, as he felt, uncomfortable.
“你可以走了，马奇小姐，”戴维斯先生说，他看上去看上去很不自在。

He did not soon forget the reproachful glance Amy gave him, as she went, without a word to anyone, straight into the anteroom, snatched her things, and left the place ‘forever,’ as she passionately declared to herself. She was in a sad state when she got home, and when the older girls arrived, some time later, an indignation meeting was held at once. Mrs. March did not say much but looked disturbed, and comforted her afflicted little daughter in her tenderest manner. Meg bathed the insulted hand with glycerine and tears, Beth felt that even her beloved kittens would fail as a balm for griefs like this, Jo wrathfully proposed that Mr. Davis be arrested without delay, and Hannah shook her fist at the ‘villain’ and pounded potatoes for dinner as if she had him under her pestle.
他并没有忘记艾米投给他的责备的眼神，当时她没有对任何人说一句话，径直走进前厅，抓起她的东西，“永远”离开了这个地方，正如她热情地对自己宣称的那样。当她回到家时，她的心情很悲伤，过了一段时间，当年龄较大的女孩们到达时，立即召开了一次愤慨会。马奇夫人没有多说什么，但看上去很不安，并以最温柔的方式安慰她受苦的小女儿。梅格用甘油和泪水清洗那只受侮辱的手，贝丝觉得即使是她心爱的小猫也无法治愈这样的悲伤，乔愤怒地提议立即逮捕戴维斯先生，汉娜向这个“恶棍”挥舞着拳头，晚餐时捣土豆，就好像她把他放在杵下一样。

No notice was taken of Amy’s flight, except by her mates, but the sharp-eyed demoiselles discovered that Mr. Davis was quite benignant in the afternoon, also unusually nervous. Just before school closed, Jo appeared, wearing a grim expression as she stalked up to the desk, and delivered a letter from her mother, then collected Amy’s property, and departed, carefully scraping the mud from her boots on the door mat, as if she shook that dust of the place off her feet.
除了她的伙伴们之外，没有人注意到艾米的逃跑，但是目光敏锐的蓑羽们发现戴维斯先生下午非常和蔼可亲，而且还异常紧张。就在放学前夕，乔出现了，面色严峻，大步走到课桌前，递了一封母亲的信，然后收起艾米的东西，离开了，在门垫上小心翼翼地刮去靴子上的泥土，仿佛她抖掉了脚上的灰尘。

‘Yes, you can have a vacation from school, but I want you to study a little every day with Beth,’ said Mrs. March that evening. ‘I don’t approve of corporal punishment, especially for girls. I dislike Mr. Davis’s manner of teaching and don’t think the girls you associate with are doing you any good, so I shall ask your father’s advice before I send you anywhere else.’
“是的，你可以放假，但我希望你每天和贝丝一起学习一点，”那天晚上马奇太太说。 “我不赞成体罚，尤其是对女孩。我不喜欢戴维斯先生的教学方式，也不认为与你交往的女孩对你有任何好处，所以在送你去其他地方之前，我会征求你父亲的意见。

‘That’s good! I wish all the girls would leave, and spoil his old school. It’s perfectly maddening to think of those lovely limes,’ sighed Amy, with the air of a martyr.
'那挺好的！我希望所有的女孩都离开，毁了他原来的学校。想到那些可爱的酸橙真是令人抓狂。”艾米叹了口气，语气像个烈士。

‘I am not sorry you lost them, for you broke the rules, and deserved some punishment for disobedience,’ was the severe reply, which rather disappointed the young lady, who expected nothing but sympathy.
“我并不为你丢了它们而感到遗憾，因为你违反了规矩，因不服从而应受一些惩罚。”严厉的回答让那位年轻女士相当失望，她只期望得到同情。

‘Do you mean you are glad I was disgraced before the whole school?’ cried Amy.
“你的意思是你很高兴我在全校面前丢脸了？”艾米喊道。

‘I should not have chosen that way of mending a fault,’ replied her mother, ‘but I’m not sure that it won’t do you more good than a molder method. You are getting to be rather conceited, my dear, and it is quite time you set about correcting it. You have a good many little gifts and virtues, but there is no need of parading them, for conceit spoils the finest genius. There is not much danger that real talent or goodness will be overlooked long, even if it is, the consciousness of possessing and using it well should satisfy one, and the great charm of all power is modesty.’
“我不应该选择这种方式来弥补错误，”她的母亲回答道，“但我不确定这不会比模塑方法对你更好。”亲爱的，你变得相当自负了，现在是你着手改正的时候了。你有很多小天赋和美德，但没有必要炫耀它们，因为自负会毁掉最优秀的天才。真正的才能或善良被长期忽视的危险并不大，即使是这样，拥有和充分利用它的意识应该令人满意，而所有权力的最大魅力就是谦虚。

‘So it is!’ cried Laurie, who was playing chess in a corner with Jo. ‘I knew a girl once, who had a really remarkable talent for music, and she didn’t know it, never guessed what sweet little things she composed when she was alone, and wouldn’t have believed it if anyone had told her.’
“原来如此！”正在角落里和乔下棋的劳里喊道。 “我曾经认识一个女孩，她在音乐方面有着非凡的天赋，但她自己并不知道，从来没有猜到她独自一人时会创作出哪些甜蜜的小东西，如果有人告诉她，她也不会相信。 '

‘I wish I’d known that nice girl. Maybe she would have helped me, I’m so stupid,’ said Beth, who stood beside him, listening eagerly.
“我希望我认识那个好女孩。也许她会帮助我，我太蠢了，”贝丝说道，她站在他旁边，热切地听着。

‘You do know her, and she helps you better than anyone else could,’ answered Laurie, looking at her with such mischievous meaning in his merry black eyes that Beth suddenly turned very red, and hid her face in the sofa cushion, quite overcome by such an unexpected discovery.
“你确实认识她，她比任何人都更能帮助你，”劳里回答道，他那双快乐的黑眼睛里充满了调皮的意味，贝丝突然脸红了，把脸埋在沙发垫里，完全受不了了。通过这样一个意想不到的发现。

Jo let Laurie win the game to pay for that praise of her Beth, who could not be prevailed upon to play for them after her compliment. So Laurie did his best, and sang delightfully, being in a particularly lively humor, for to the Marches he seldom showed the moody side of his character. When he was gone, amy, who had been pensive all evening, said suddenly, as if busy over some new idea, ‘Is Laurie an accomplished boy?’
乔让劳里赢得了比赛，以补偿她对贝丝的赞扬，但在她的称赞之后，贝丝却无法说服他们为他们打球。于是劳里尽了最大的努力，唱得非常愉快，特别活泼幽默，因为在游行中他很少表现出性格中喜怒无常的一面。他走后，整个晚上都在沉思的艾米突然问道，好像忙着思考什么新想法：“劳里是一个多才多艺的男孩吗？”

‘Yes, he has had an excellent education, and has much talent. He will make a fine man, if not spoiled by petting,’ replied her mother.
“是的，他受过良好的教育，而且很有才华。如果没有被宠坏的话，他会成为一个好男人。”她的母亲回答道。

‘And he isn’t conceited, is he?’ asked Amy.
“他并不自负，是吗？”艾米问道。

‘Not in the least. That is why he is so charming and we all like him so much.’ ‘I see. It’s nice to have accomplishments and be elegant, but not to show off or get perked up,’ said Amy thoughtfully.
” “一点也不。这就是为什么他如此迷人，我们都这么喜欢他。” “我明白了。有成就、举止优雅固然很好，但不是为了炫耀或振作起来。”艾米若有所思地说。

‘These things are always seen and felt in a person’s manner and conversations, if modestly used, but it is not necessary to display them,’ said Mrs. March.
马奇夫人说：“如果使用得当，这些东西总是可以从一个人的举止和谈话中看到和感受到，但没有必要展示它们。”

‘Any more than it’s proper to wear all your bonnets and gowns and ribbons at once, that folks may know you’ve got them,’ added Jo, and the lecture ended in a laugh.
乔补充道：“一次戴上所有帽子、礼服和丝带是正确的做法，这样人们就会知道你已经拥有它们了。”讲座在笑声中结束。

CHAPTER EIGHT
第八章

‘Girls, where are you going?’ asked Amy, coming into their room one Saturday afternoon, and finding them getting ready to go out with an air of secrecy which excited her curiosity.
“女孩们，你们要去哪里？”一个周六下午，艾米走进她们的房间，发现她们正准备出去，神态神秘，这激起了她的好奇心。

‘Never mind. Little girls shouldn’t ask questions,’ returned Jo sharply.
'没关系。小女孩不应该问问题。”乔尖锐地回答道。

Now if there is anything mortifying to out feelings when we are young, it is to be told that, and to be bidden to ‘run away, dear’ is still more trying to us. Amy bridled up at this insult, and determined to find out the secret, if she teased for an hour. Turning to Meg, who never refused her anything very long, she said coaxingly, ‘Do tell me! I should think you might let me go, too, for Beth is fussing over her piano, and I haven’t got anything to do, and am so lonely.’
如果说年轻时有什么事情是让我们发泄感情的，那就是被告知，以及被命令“逃走，亲爱的”对我们来说仍然更难受。艾米对这种侮辱感到愤怒，并决心找出这个秘密，如果她取笑一个小时的话。她转向从未拒绝过她任何事情的梅格，哄骗地说：“告诉我吧！”我想你也可以让我走，因为贝丝正在忙着弹钢琴，而我却无事可做，而且很孤独。

‘I can’t, dear, because you aren’t invited,’ began Meg, but Jo broke in impatiently, ‘Now, Meg, be quiet or you will spoil it all. You can’t go, Amy, so don’t be a baby and whine about it.’
“我不能，亲爱的，因为你没有被邀请，”梅格开始说道，但乔不耐烦地插嘴道，“现在，梅格，安静点，否则你会破坏这一切。”你不能走，艾米，所以不要像个孩子一样抱怨这件事。

‘You are going somewhere with Laurie, I know you are. You were whispering and laughing together on the sofa last night, and you stopped when I came in. Aren’t you going with him?’
“你要和劳里一起去某个地方，我知道你会的。昨晚你们在沙发上窃窃私语、大笑起来，当我进来时你们就停了下来。你不和他一起去吗？

‘Yes, we are. Now do be still, and stop bothering.’
'是的我们是。现在请保持安静，别再打扰了。”

Amy held her tongue, but used her eyes, and saw Meg slip a fan into her pocket.
艾米闭嘴，但用眼睛看到梅格把一把扇子塞进口袋里。

‘I know! I know! You’re going to the theater to see the SEVEN CASTLES!’ she cried, adding resolutely, ‘and I shall go, for Mother said I might see it, and I’ve got my rag money, and it was mean not to tell me in time.’
'我知道！我知道！你要去剧院看《七座城堡》！”她大声喊道，坚定地补充道，“我会去的，因为妈妈说我可能会去看，而且我已经有了我的破布钱，不告诉就太卑鄙了我及时了。

‘Just listen to me a minute, and be a good child,’ said Meg soothingly. ‘Mother doesn’t wish you to go this week, because your eyes are not well enough yet to bear the light of this fairy piece. Next week you can go with Beth and Hannah, and have a nice time.’
“听我一分钟，做一个好孩子，”梅格安慰道。 ‘妈妈不希望你这周去，因为你的眼睛还不够好，无法承受这件童话作品的光芒。下周你可以和贝丝和汉娜一起去，玩得很开心。”

‘I don’t like that half as well as going with you and Laurie. Please let me. I’ve been sick with this cold so long, and shut up, I’m dying for some fun. Do, Meg! I’ll be ever so good,’ pleaded Amy, looking as pathetic as she could.
“我不喜欢和你和劳里一起去。请让我。我已经患感冒这么久了，闭嘴，我非常想找点乐子。做吧，梅格！我会一直表现得很好。”艾米恳求道，她看上去尽可能可怜。

‘Suppose we take her. I don’t believe Mother would mind, if we bundle her up well,’ began Meg.
‘假设我们带走她。如果我们把她裹得严严实实的话，我相信妈妈不会介意的。”梅格说道。

‘If she goes I shan’t, and if I don’t, Laurie won’t like it, and it will be very rude, after he invited only us, to go and drag in Amy. I should think she’d hate to poke herself where she isn’t wanted,’ said Jo crossly, for she disliked the trouble of overseeing a fidgety child when she wanted to enjoy herself.
“如果她去，我就不去，如果我不去，劳里也不会喜欢，而且他只邀请我们去把艾米拉进来，这会很不礼貌。” “我想她应该不愿意在不需要的地方戳自己，”乔生气地说，因为她不喜欢当她想要享受自己的时候照顾一个烦躁的孩子。

Her tone and manner angered Amy, who began to put her boots on, saying, in her most aggravating way, ‘I shall go. Meg says I may, and if I pay for myself, Laurie hasn’t anything to do with it.’
她的语气和态度激怒了艾米，她开始穿上靴子，用她最恼人的方式说：“我要走了。”梅格说我可以，如果我自己付钱，劳里就与此无关。

‘You can’t sit with us, for our seats are reserved, and you mustn’t sit alone, so Laurie will give you his place, and that will spoil our pleasure. Or he’ll get another seat for you, and that isn’t proper when you weren’t asked. You shan’t stir a step, so you may just stay where you are,’ scolded Jo, crosser than ever, having just pricked her finger in her hurry.
“你不能和我们坐在一起，因为我们的座位已经被预订了，而且你不能单独坐着，所以劳里会给你他的位置，这会破坏我们的乐趣。或者他会为你安排另一个座位，而在没有询问你的情况下，这是不合适的。你不能动一步，所以你只能呆在原地，”乔斥责道，她比以前更生气了，她刚刚在匆忙中扎破了手指。

Sitting on the floor with one boot on, Amy began to cry and Meg to reason with her, when Laurie called from below, and the two girls hurried down, leaving their sister wailing. For now and then she forgot her grown-up ways and acted like a spoiled child. Just as the party was setting out, Amy called over the banisters in a threatening tone, ‘You’ll be sorry for this, Jo March, see if you ain’t.’
艾米穿着一只靴子坐在地板上，开始哭泣，梅格开始跟她讲道理，这时劳里从下面喊道，两个女孩赶紧跑下来，留下她们的妹妹在哭泣。她时不时地忘记了自己大人的样子，表现得像个被宠坏的孩子。正当队伍出发时，艾米在栏杆上用威胁的语气喊道：“你会为此感到抱歉的，乔·马奇，看看你是否不会。”

‘Fiddlesticks!’ returned Jo, slamming the door.
“胡闹！”乔回答道，关上门。

They had a charming time, for THE SEVEN CASTLES OF THE DIAMOND LAKE was as brilliant and wonderful as heart could wish. But in spite of the comical red imps, sparkling elves, and the gorgeous princes and princesses, Jo’s pleasure had a drop of bitterness in it. The fairy queen’s yellow curls reminded her of Amy, and between the acts she amused herself with wondering what her sister would do to make her ‘sorry for it’. She and Amy had had many lively skirmishes in the course of their lives, for both had quick tempers and were apt to be violent when fairly roused. Amy teased Jo, and Jo irritated Amy, and semioccasional explosions occurred, of which both were much ashamed afterward. Although the oldest, Jo had the least self-control, and had hard times trying to curb the fiery spirit which was continually getting her into trouble. Her anger never lasted long, and having humbly confessed her fault, she sincerely repented and tried to do better. Her sisters used to say that they rather liked to get Jo into a fury because she was such an angel afterward. Poor Jo tried desperately to be good, but her bosom enemy was always ready to flame up and defeat her, and it took years of patient effort to subdue it.
他们度过了一段愉快的时光，因为《钻石湖七堡》真是如心所愿地辉煌灿烂。但尽管有滑稽的红色小鬼、闪闪发光的精灵、华丽的王子和公主，乔的快乐中却夹杂着一丝苦涩。仙女女王的黄色卷发让她想起了艾米，在表演之间，她自娱自乐地想知道她的妹妹会做什么让她“为此感到抱歉”。她和艾米一生中发生过很多激烈的小冲突，因为两人都脾气暴躁，在相当激动的时候很容易变得暴力。艾米取笑乔，乔激怒了艾米，偶尔会发生一些爆炸，事后两人都感到非常羞愧。尽管乔是年纪最大的，但她的自制力却是最差的，她很难抑制住不断给她带来麻烦的火热情绪。她的愤怒并没有持续太久，她谦虚地承认了自己的错误，并真诚地悔罪并努力做得更好。她的姐妹们常说，她们更喜欢让乔生气，因为她后来就变成了天使。可怜的乔拼命地想做好人，但她的密敌总是随时准备着发怒并击败她，她需要多年的耐心努力才能制服它。

When they got home, they found amy reading in the parlor. She assumed an injured air as they came in, never lifted her eyes from her book, or asked a single question. Perhaps curiosity might have conquered resentment, if Beth had not been there to inquire and receive a glowing description of the play. On going up to put away her best hat, Jo’s first look was toward the bureau, for in their last quarrel Amy had soothed her feelings by turning Jo’s top drawer upside down on the floor. Everything was in its place, however, and after a hasty glance into her various closets, bags, and boxes, Jo decided that Amy had forgiven and forgotten her wrongs.
当他们回到家时，他们发现艾米正在客厅里读书。他们进来时，她一副受伤的样子，眼睛始终没有离开书本，也没有问任何问题。如果贝丝没有在那里询问并收到对该剧的热情描述，也许好奇心可能会战胜怨恨。在上楼收起她最好的帽子时，乔的第一眼看向了梳妆台，因为在他们上次争吵时，艾米把乔最上面的抽屉翻过来放在地板上，以此安抚她的情绪。然而，一切都已就位，在匆匆浏览了她的各种壁橱、包和盒子后，乔认定艾米已经原谅并忘记了她的错误。

There Jo was mistaken, for next day she made a discovery which produced a tempest. Meg, Beth, and Amy were sitting together, late in the afternoon, when Jo burst into the room, looking excited and demanding breathlessly, ‘Has anyone taken my book?’
乔错了，因为第二天她的一个发现引发了一场暴风雨。下午晚些时候，梅格、贝丝和艾米坐在一起，乔冲进房间，看上去很兴奋，气喘吁吁地问道：“有人拿走了我的书吗？”

Meg and Beth said, ‘No.’ at once, and looked surprised. Amy poked the fire and said nothing. Jo saw her color rise and was down upon her in a minute.
梅格和贝丝立即说：“不。”并且看上去很惊讶。艾米拨开火，什么也没说。乔看到她脸色涨红，立刻向她扑来。

‘Amy, you’ve got it!’
“艾米，你做到了！”

‘No, I haven’t.’
“不，我没有。”

‘You know where it is, then!’
“那么你知道它在哪里！”

‘No, I don’t.’
“不，我不。”

‘That’s a fib!’ cried Jo, taking her by the shoulders, and looking fierce enough to frighten a much braver child than Amy.
“这是个谎言！”乔抓住她的肩膀喊道，他的表情凶狠得足以吓到一个比艾米勇敢得多的孩子。

‘It isn’t. I haven’t got it, don’t know where it is now, and don’t care.’
‘不是的。我没拿到，不知道它现在在哪里，也不关心。”

‘You know something about it, and you’d better tell at once, or I’ll make you.’ And Jo gave her a slight shake.
“你对此有所了解，你最好立即告诉，否则我就逼你了。”乔轻轻摇晃了她一下。

‘Scold as much as you like, you’ll never see your silly old book again,’ cried Amy, getting excited in her turn.
“你想骂多少就骂多少，你再也见不到那本愚蠢的旧书了。”艾米喊道，她也兴奋起来。

‘why not?’
'为什么不？'

‘I burned it up.’
“我把它烧了。”

‘What! My little book I was so fond of, and worked over, and meant to finish before Father got home? Have you really burned it?’ said Jo, turning very pale, while her eyes kindled and her hands clutched Amy nervously.
'什么！我非常喜欢的那本小书，我一直在努力，打算在父亲回家之前完成？你真的烧了它吗？”乔的脸色变得非常苍白，眼睛发亮，双手紧张地抓着艾米。

‘Yes, I did! I told you I’d make you pay for being so cross yesterday, and I have, so...’
‘是的，我做到了！我告诉过你我会让你为昨天的愤怒付出代价，所以我……”

Amy got no farther, for Jo’s hot temper mastered her, and she shook Amy till her teeth chattered in her head, crying in a passion of grief and anger...
艾米没有再说下去，因为乔的火爆脾气控制了她，她摇晃着艾米，直到她的牙齿在脑海里打颤，在悲伤和愤怒的激情中哭泣......

‘You wicked, wicked girl! I never can write it again, and I’ll never forgive you as long as I live.’
‘你这个坏女人，坏女人！我再也不能写它了，只要我活着，我就永远不会原谅你。

Meg flew to rescue Amy, and Beth to pacify Jo, but Jo was quite beside herself, and with a parting box on her sister’s ear, she rushed out of the room up to the old sofa in the garret, and finished her fight alone.
梅格飞去营救艾米，贝丝则去安抚乔，但乔却完全发疯了，她在姐姐耳边贴着临别盒，冲出房间，跑到阁楼的旧沙发上，独自结束了战斗。

The storm cleared up below, for Mrs. March came home, and, having heard the story, soon brought Amy to a sense of the wrong she had done her sister. Jo’s book was the pride of her heart, and was regarded by her family as a literary sprout of great promise. It was only half a dozen little fairy tales, but Jo had worked over them patiently, putting her whole heart into her work, hoping to make something good enough to print. She had just copied them with great care, and had destroyed the old manuscript, so that Amy’s bonfire had consumed the loving work of several years. It seemed a small loss to others, but to Jo it was a dreadful calamity, and she felt that it never could be made up to her. Beth mourned as for a departed kitten, and Meg refused to defend her pet. Mrs. March looked grave and grieved, and Amy felt that no one would love her till she had asked pardon for the act which she now regretted more than any of them.
下面暴风雨消散了，马奇太太回家了，听了这个故事，艾米很快就意识到自己对妹妹做了错事。乔的书是她心中的骄傲，被她的家人视为前途无量的文学萌芽。虽然只有六个小童话故事，但乔却耐心地完成了它们，全心全意地投入到作品中，希望能写出足够好的作品来出版。她刚刚小心翼翼地抄写下来，又把旧手稿毁掉了，让艾米的篝火烧掉了几年的心血。这对别人来说似乎是一个小小的损失，但对乔来说，这是一场可怕的灾难，她觉得这对她来说是永远无法弥补的。贝丝哀悼一只死去的小猫，而梅格拒绝保护她的宠物。马奇太太显得严肃而悲伤，艾米觉得，除非她为自己的行为请求原谅，否则没有人会爱她，现在她比他们中的任何人都更后悔这一行为。

When the tea bell rang, Jo appeared, looking so grim and unapproachable that it took all Amy’s courage to say meekly...
当茶水铃声响起时，乔出现了，表情冷酷而难以接近，艾米鼓足了全部勇气才温顺地说……

‘Please forgive me, Jo. I’m very, very sorry.’
‘请原谅我，乔。我非常非常抱歉。

‘I never shall forgive you,’ was Jo’s stern answer, and from that moment she ignored Amy entirely.
“我永远不会原谅你。”乔严厉地回答，从那一刻起，她完全无视了艾米。

No one spoke of the great trouble, not even Mrs. March, for all had learned by experience that when Jo was in that mood words were wasted, and the wisest course was to wait till some little accident, or her own generous nature, softened Jo’s resentment and healed the breach. It was not a happy evening, for though they sewed as usual, while their mother read aloud from Bremer, Scott, or Edgeworth, something was wanting, and the sweet home peace was disturbed. They felt this most when singing time came, for Beth could only play, Jo stood dumb as a stone, and Amy broke down, so Meg and Mother sang alone. But in spite of their efforts to be as cheery as larks, the flutelike voices did not seem to chord as well as usual, and all felt out of tune.
没有人谈论这个大麻烦，甚至马奇夫人也没有，因为所有人都从经验中得知，当乔心情不好时，言语都是浪费的，最明智的做法是等待一些小意外，或者她自己慷慨的本性软化。乔的怨恨弥合了裂痕。这不是一个快乐的夜晚，因为尽管他们像往常一样缝纫，而当他们的母亲大声朗读布雷默、斯科特或埃奇沃斯的作品时，有些东西还不够，甜蜜的家庭平静被打破了。当唱歌的时候，他们感受最深，因为贝丝只能弹奏，乔像石头一样呆呆地站着，艾米崩溃了，所以梅格和妈妈独自唱歌。但尽管他们努力表现得像百灵鸟一样欢快，但笛子般的声音似乎并不像平常那​​样和弦，一切都感觉走调。

As Jo received her good-night kiss, Mrs. March whispered gently, ‘My dear, don’t let the sun go down upon your anger. Forgive each other, help each other, and begin again tomorrow.’
当乔接受她的晚安吻时，马奇夫人温柔地低声说道：“亲爱的，不要让太阳因你的愤怒而落下。”互相原谅，互相帮助，明天重新开始。”

Jo wanted to lay her head down on that motherly bosom, and cry her grief and anger all away, but tears were an unmanly weakness, and she felt so deeply injured that she really couldn’t quite forgive yet. So she winked hard, shook her head, and said gruffly because Amy was listening, ‘It was an abominable thing, and she doesn’t deserve to be forgiven.’
乔想把头埋在母亲的怀抱里，把悲伤和愤怒都哭出来，但眼泪是一种没有男子气概的弱点，她感到受伤太深，还无法完全原谅。于是她用力眨了眨眼睛，摇了摇头，因为艾米在听，所以粗声粗气地说：“这是一件令人憎恶的事情，她不值得被原谅。”

With that she marched off to bed, and there was no merry or confidential gossip that night.
说完，她就上床睡觉了，那天晚上没有任何欢乐或秘密的八卦。

Amy was much offended that her overtures of peace had been repulsed, and began to wish she had not humbled herself, to feel more injured than ever, and to plume herself on her superior virtue in a way which was particularly exasperating. Jo still looked like a thunder cloud, and nothing went well all day. It was bitter cold in the morning, she dropped her precious turnover in the gutter, Aunt March had an attack of the fidgets, Meg was sensitive, Beth would look grieved and wistful when she got home, and Amy kept making remarks about people who were always talking about being good and yet wouldn’t even try when other people set them a virtuous example. ‘Everybody is so hateful, I’ll ask Laurie to go skating. He is always kind and jolly, and will put me to rights, I know,’ said Jo to herself, and off she went.
艾米对她的和平提议遭到拒绝感到非常生气，并开始希望自己没有谦卑自己，感觉比以前更受伤，并以一种特别令人恼火的方式自夸自己优越的美德。乔依然一副雷云密布的样子，一整天都不顺心。早上寒冷刺骨，她把宝贵的营业额扔进了阴沟里，马奇阿姨坐立不安，梅格很敏感，贝丝回到家时会显得悲伤和渴望，艾米不断地谈论那些被人欺负的人。总是口口声声说要做好人，但当别人为他们树立了良好的榜样时，他们却不愿意去尝试。 “大家都这么可恨，我就请劳里去滑冰吧。”他总是很友善，很快乐，我知道，他会让我恢复正常。”乔自言自语道，然后她就走了。

Amy heard the clash of skates, and looked out with an impatient exclamation.
艾米听到了溜冰鞋的撞击声，不耐烦地向外张望。

‘There! She promised I should go next time, for this is the last ice we shall have. But it’s no use to ask such a crosspatch to take me.’
'那里！她答应我下次应该去，因为这是我们最后的冰块了。但请这样的十字路口来带我是没有用的。

‘Don’t say that. You were very naughty, and it is hard to forgive the loss of her precious little book, but I think she might do it now, and I guess she will, if you try her at the right minute,’ said Meg. ‘Go after them. Don’t say anything till Jo has got good-natured with Laurie, than take a quiet minute and just kiss her, or do some kind thing, and I’m sure she’ll be friends again with all her heart.’
‘别这么说。你非常顽皮，很难原谅失去了她珍贵的小书，但我想她现在可能会这样做，而且我想她会的，如果你在正确的时刻尝试她的话，”梅格说。 ‘去追他们吧。在乔对劳里变得友善之前，不要说什么，而是安静地吻她一下，或者做一些善意的事情，我相信她会再次全心全意地成为朋友。

‘I’ll try,’ said Amy, for the advice suited her, and after a flurry to get ready, she ran after the friends, who were just disappearing over the hill.
“我会尽力的，”艾米说，因为这个建议适合她，经过一番准备后，她追上了朋友们，他们刚刚消失在山上。

It was not far to the river, but both were ready before Amy reached them. Jo saw her coming, and turned her back. Laurie did not see, for he was carefully skating along the shore, sounding the ice, for a warm spell had preceded the cold snap.
距离河边不远，但在艾米到达之前，两人都已经准备好了。乔看见她过来，就转过身去。劳里没有看到，因为他正小心翼翼地沿着海岸滑冰，探查冰面的声音，因为寒流之前曾有一段温暖的时期。

‘I’ll go on to the first bend, and see if it’s all right before we begin to race,’ Amy heard him say, as he shot away, looking like a young Russian in his fur-trimmed coat and cap.
“我会继续到第一个弯道，在我们开始比赛之前看看是否可以，”艾米听到他说，他飞快地离开了，看起来像一个穿着毛皮镶边外套和帽子的年轻俄罗斯人。

Jo heard Amy panting after her run, stamping her feet and blowing on her fingers as she tried to put her skates on, but Jo never turned and went slowly zigzagging down the river, taking a bitter, unhappy sort of satisfaction in her sister’s troubles. She had cherished her anger till it grew strong and took possession of her, as evil thoughts and feelings always do unless cast out at once. As Laurie turned the bend, he shouted back...
乔听到艾米跑步后气喘吁吁，试图穿上溜冰鞋时，她跺着脚，吹着手指，但乔没有转身，慢慢地曲折地顺着河走，从姐姐的麻烦中得到了一种苦涩、不快乐的满足。她一直怀着愤怒，直到它变得越来越强烈并占据了她，就像邪恶的思想和感情总是这样，除非立即驱除。当劳里转弯时，他大声喊道……

‘Keep near the shore. It isn’t safe in the middle.’ Jo heard, but Amy was struggling to her feet and did not catch a word. Jo glanced over her shoulder, and the little demon she was harboring said in her ear...
‘靠近海岸。中间不安全。”乔听到了，但艾米挣扎着站起来，没有听到任何声音。乔回头看了一眼，她怀里的小恶魔在她耳边说道……

‘No matter whether she heard or not, let her take care of herself.’
“不管她听没听，让她照顾好自己。”

Laurie had vanished round the bend, Jo was just at the turn, and Amy, far behind, striking out toward the the smoother ice in the middle of the river. For a minute Jo stood still with a strange feeling in her heart, then she resolved to go on, but something held and turned her round, just in time to see Amy throw up her hands and go down, with a sudden crash of rotten ice, the splash of water, and a cry that made Jo’s heart stand still with fear. She tried to call Laurie, but her voice was gone. She tried to rush forward, but her feet seemed to have no strength in them, and for a second, she could only stand motionless, staring with a terror-stricken face at the little blue hood above the black water. Something rushed swiftly by her, and Laurie’s voice cried out...
劳里（Laurie）在拐弯处消失了，乔（Jo）正好在转弯处，艾米（Amy）远远落后，正向河中央更光滑的冰面猛冲过去。乔一动不动地站了一会儿，心中有一种奇怪的感觉，然后她决定继续前进，但有什么东西抓住了她，让她转过身来，正好看到艾米举起双手倒下，突然传来一阵腐烂的冰块撞击声。 、溅起的水花、还有叫声，让乔的心惊恐得停了下来。她试图给劳里打电话，但她的声音消失了。她试图向前冲去，但双脚似乎没有了力气，一时之间，她只能一动不动地站着，一脸惊恐地盯着黑色水面上的蓝色小兜帽。有什么东西迅速从她身边冲过，劳里的声音大叫起来……

‘Bring a rail. Quick, quick!’
‘拿一根铁轨来。快点，快点！

How she did it, she never knew, but for the next few minutes she worked as if possessed, blindly obeying Laurie, who was quite self-possessed, and lying flat, held Amy up by his arm and hockey stick till Jo dragged a rail from the fence, and together they got the child out, more frightened than hurt.
她永远不知道她是怎么做到的，但在接下来的几分钟里，她就像着魔了一样，盲目地服从劳里，而劳里非常镇定，平躺着，用手臂和曲棍球杆举起艾米，直到乔拖着栏杆。他们一起把孩子从栅栏里救了出来，与其说是受伤，不如说是害怕。

‘Now then, we must walk her home as fast as we can. Pile our things on her, while I get off these confounded skates,’ cried Laurie, wrapping his coat round Amy, and tugging away at the straps which never seemed so intricate before.
“那么，我们必须尽快送她回家。”把我们的东西堆在她身上，我就脱下这些破烂的溜冰鞋。”劳里喊道，一边把外套裹在艾米身上，一边拉着以前从未如此复杂的带子。

Shivering, dripping, and crying, they got Amy home, and after an exciting time of it, she fell asleep, rolled in blankets before a hot fire. During the bustle Jo had scarcely spoken but flown about, looking pale and wild, with her things half off, her dress torn, and her hands cut and bruised by ice and rails and refractory buckles. When Amy was comfortably asleep, the house quiet, and Mrs. March sitting by the bed, she called Jo to her and began to bind up the hurt hands.
他们浑身颤抖、浑身湿淋淋、哭泣着，把艾米送回家，经过一段激动人心的时光后，她在滚烫的炉火前裹着毯子睡着了。在喧闹中，乔几乎没有说话，只是飞来飞去，看上去苍白而狂野，她的东西已经脱了一半，她的衣服被撕破了，她的手被冰、栏杆和耐火带扣割伤和擦伤。当艾米舒舒服服地睡着了，房子里很安静，马奇太太坐在床边时，她把乔叫到身边，开始包扎受伤的手。

‘Are you sure she is safe?’ whispered Jo, looking remorsefully at the golden head, which might have been swept away from her sight forever under the treacherous ice.
“你确定她安全吗？”乔低声说道，悔恨地看着金色的头颅，在危险的冰层下，它可能已经永远从她的视线中消失了。

‘Quite safe, dear. she is not hurt, and won’t even take cold, I think, you were so sensible in covering and getting her home quickly,’ replied her mother cheerfully.
“很安全，亲爱的。她没有受伤，也不会感冒，我想，你真是明智地掩护她，让她很快回家。”母亲高兴地回答道。

‘Laurie did it all. I only let her go. Mother, if she should die, it would be my fault.’ And Jo dropped down beside the bed in a passion of penitent tears, telling all that had happened, bitterly condemning her hardness of heart, and sobbing out her gratitude for being spared the heavy punishment which might have come upon her. ‘It’s my dreadful temper! I try to cure it, I think I have, and then it breaks out worse than ever. OH, Mother, what shall I do? What shall I do?’ cried poor Jo, in despair.
劳里做到了这一切。我只让她走了。妈妈，如果她死了，那是我的错。”乔在床边痛哭流涕，讲述了所发生的一切，痛苦地谴责她的铁石心肠，哭泣着表达她对自己幸免于难的感激之情。严厉的惩罚可能会降临在她身上。 ‘这就是我的脾气！我试图治愈它，我想我已经做到了，然后它变得比以前更糟。哦，妈妈，我该怎么办？我该怎么办？”可怜的乔绝望地喊道。

‘Watch and pray, dear, never get tired of trying, and never think it is impossible to conquer your fault,’ said Mrs. March, drawing the blowzy head to her shoulder and kissing the wet cheek so tenderly that Jo cried even harder.
“注意并祈祷，亲爱的，永远不要厌倦尝试，永远不要认为克服你的错误是不可能的，”马奇太太说，把那蓬乱的头拉到肩膀上，温柔地吻着湿润的脸颊，让乔哭得更厉害了。

‘You don’t know, you can’t guess how bad it is! It seems as if I could do anything when I’m in a passion. I get so savage, I could hurt anyone and enjoy it. I’m afraid I shall do something dreadful some day, and spoil my life, and make everybody hate me. Oh, Mother, help me, do help me!’
‘你不知道，你猜不到事情有多糟糕！当我充满激情时，似乎我可以做任何事情。我变得如此野蛮，我可以伤害任何人并以此为乐。我担心有一天我会做出一些可怕的事情，毁掉我的生活，让每个人都恨我。哦，妈妈，帮帮我，一定帮帮我！”

‘I will, my child, I will. Don’t cry so bitterly, but remember this day, and resolve with all your soul that you will never know another like it. Jo, dear, we all have our temptations, some far greater than yours, and it often takes us all our lives to conquer them. You think your temper is the worst in the world, but mine used to be just like it.’
‘我会的，我的孩子，我会的。不要哭得那么伤心，但要记住这一天，并全心全意地下定决心，你将永远不会再遇到类似的日子。乔，亲爱的，我们都有自己的诱惑，有些比你的诱惑大得多，而且常常需要我们一生才能克服它们。你以为你的脾气是世界上最坏的，但我以前也是这样。”

‘Yours, Mother? Why, you are never angry!’ And for the moment Jo forgot remorse in surprise.
“你的，妈妈？为什么，你从不生气！”乔惊讶地忘记了悔恨。

‘I’ve been trying to cure it for forty years, and have only succeeded in controlling it. I am angry nearly every day of my life, Jo, but I have learned not to show it, and I still hope to learn not to feel it, though it may take me another forty years to do so.’
“四十年来我一直在尝试治愈它，但最终只成功地控制了它。乔，我一生中几乎每天都在生气，但我已经学会了不表现出来，我仍然希望学会不去感受它，尽管我可能还需要四十年才能做到这一点。

The patience and the humility of the face she loved so well was a better lesson to Jo than the wisest lecture, the sharpest reproof. She felt comforted at once by the sympathy and confidence given her. The knowledge that her mother had a fault like hers, and tried to mend it, made her own easier to bear and strengthened her resolution to cure it, though forty years seemed rather a long time to watch and pray to a girl of fifteen.
她深爱的那张脸的耐心和谦逊对乔来说是比最明智的训诫、最尖锐的责备更好的教训。给予她的同情和信任让她立刻感到安慰。知道母亲也有和她一样的毛病，并试图改正它，这让她自己更容易忍受，也坚定了她治愈毛病的决心，尽管对一个十五岁的女孩来说，四十年的守望和祈祷似乎相当漫长。

‘Mother, are you angry when you fold your lips tight together and go out of the room sometimes, when Aunt March scolds or people worry you?’ asked Jo, feeling nearer and dearer to her mother than ever before.
“妈妈，当马奇婶婶责骂你，或者别人担心你时，你有时会紧闭双唇走出房间，你会生气吗？”乔问道，感觉自己比以前更亲近、更亲爱了。

‘Yes, I’ve learned to check the hasty words that rise to my lips, and when I feel that they mean to break out against my will, I just go away for a minute, and give myself a little shake for being so weak and wicked,’ answered Mrs. March with a sigh and a smile, as she smoothed and fastened up Jo’s disheveled hair.
“是的，我已经学会了克制自己说出的话，当我觉得它们有意违背我的意愿时，我就会离开一会儿，并为自己如此软弱而感到一点震动。”马奇太太一边叹了口气，一边微笑着回答，一边把乔蓬乱的头发抚平并扎好。

‘How did you learn to keep still? That is what troubles me, for the sharp words fly out before I know what I’m about, and the more I say the worse I get, till it’s a pleasure to hurt people’s feelings and say dreadful things. Tell me how you do it, Marmee dear.’ ‘My good mother used to help me...’
‘你是怎么学会保持静止的？这就是让我烦恼的地方，因为在我还没有意识到自己在说什么之前，尖刻的话语就飞了出去，而且我说得越多，我的处境就越糟，直到我以伤害别人的感情和说出可怕的话为乐。告诉我你是怎么做到的，亲爱的妈妈。”“我的好妈妈曾经帮助过我……”

‘As you do us...’ interrupted Jo, with a grateful kiss.
“就像你对我们一样……”乔打断道，感激地吻了一下。

‘But I lost her when I was a little older than you are, and for years had to struggle on alone, for I was too proud to confess my weakness to anyone else. I had a hard time, Jo, and shed a good many bitter tears over my failures, for in spite of my efforts I never seemed to get on. Then your father came, and I was so happy that i found it easy to be good. But by-and-by, when I had four little daughters round me and we were poor, then the old trouble began again, for I am not patient by nature, and it tried me very much to see my children wanting anything.’
“但是当我比你大一点的时候，我就失去了她，多年来我不得不独自奋斗，因为我太骄傲了，不愿意向任何人承认我的弱点。乔，我度过了一段艰难的时光，并为自己的失败流下了很多苦涩的泪水，因为尽管我付出了努力，但我似乎从未取得进展。然后你父亲来了，我很高兴，发现做好事很容易。但渐渐地，当我身边有四个小女儿，而且我们很穷时，老麻烦又开始了，因为我生性没有耐心，看到我的孩子们想要什么，这让我非常痛苦。

‘Poor Mother! What helped you then?’
‘可怜的母亲！那么什么对你有帮助呢？

‘Your father, Jo. He never loses patience, never doubts or complains, but always hopes, and works and waits so cheerfully that one is ashamed to do otherwise before him. He helped and comforted me, and showed me that I must try to practice all the virtues I would have my little girls possess, for I was their example. It was easier to try for your sakes than for my own. A startled or surprised look from one of you when I spoke sharply rebuked me more than any words could have done, and the love, respect, and confidence of my children was the sweetest reward I could receive for my efforts to be the woman I would have them copy.’
“你的父亲，乔。他从不失去耐心，从不怀疑或抱怨，而是永远充满希望、工作和等待，如此快乐，以至于在他面前不这样做都感到羞愧。他帮助和安慰我，并向我表明我必须努力实践我希望我的小女儿们拥有的所有美德，因为我是她们的榜样。为了你而尝试比为了我自己而尝试要容易得多。当我尖锐地说话时，你们中的一个人惊讶或惊讶的表情比任何言语都更能责备我，而我孩子们的爱、尊重和信任是我为成为我想要的女人而付出的努力所能得到的最甜蜜的回报。让他们复印。

‘Oh, Mother, if I’m ever half as good as you, I shall be satisfied,’ cried Jo, much touched.
“噢，妈妈，如果我有你一半的水平，我就心满意足了。”乔感动极了，大声说道。

‘I hope you will be a great deal better, dear, but you must keep watch over your ‘bosom enemy’, as father calls it, or it may sadden, if not spoil your life. You have had a warning. Remember it, and try with heart and soul to master this quick temper, before it brings you greater sorrow and regret than you have known today.’
“我希望你会好很多，亲爱的，但你必须警惕你的‘挚敌’，就像父亲所说的那样，否则它即使不会毁掉你的生活，也会让你感到悲伤。”您已收到警告。记住这一点，并全心全意地努力控制这种急躁的脾气，以免它给你带来比你今天所知道的更大的悲伤和遗憾。

‘I will try, Mother, I truly will. But you must help me, remind me, and keep me from flying out. I used to see Father sometimes put his finger on his lips, and look at you with a very kind but sober face, and you always folded your lips tight and went away. Was he reminding you then?’ asked Jo softly.
“我会努力的，妈妈，我真的会的。但你一定要帮助我，提醒我，不让我飞出去。我常常看到父亲有时将手指放在嘴唇上，用一种非常慈祥却又清醒的表情看着你，而你总是紧闭嘴唇走开。他当时有提醒你吗？”乔轻声问道。

‘Yes. I asked him to help me so, and he never forgot it, but saved me from many a sharp word by that little gesture and kind look.’
'是的。我请求他帮助我，他永远不会忘记这一点，但通过那个小小的手势和友善的眼神，让我免遭许多尖刻的言语。

Jo saw that her mother’s eyes filled and her lips trembled as she spoke, and fearing that she had said too much, she whispered anxiously, ‘Was it wrong to watch you and to speak of it? I didn’t mean to be rude, but it’s so comfortable to say all I think to you, and feel so safe and happy here.’
乔见母亲说话时眼睛里充满了泪水，嘴唇在颤抖，生怕她说得太多，她焦急地小声说道：“看着你说起来是不是错了？”我并不是有意无礼，但向你说出我的所有想法真是太舒服了，而且在这里感到如此安全和快乐。

‘Mu Jo, you may say anything to your mother, for it is my greatest happiness and pride to feel that my girls confide in me and know how much I love them.’
“Mu Jo，你可以对你的母亲说任何话，因为我最大的幸福和骄傲是感觉到我的女儿们向我倾诉并知道我有多么爱她们。”

‘I thought I’d grieved you.’
“我以为我让你伤心了。”

‘No, dear, but speaking of Father reminded me how much I miss him, how much I owe him, and how faithfully I should watch and work to keep his little daughters safe and good for him.’
“不，亲爱的，但说到父亲，我想起了我是多么想念他，我欠他多少，以及我应该多么忠实地守护和努力，以确保他的小女儿们的安全，为他带来好处。”

‘Yet you told him to go, Mother, and didn’t cry when he went, and never complain now, or seem as if you needed any help,’ said Jo, wondering.
“可是你叫他走，妈妈，他走的时候你没有哭，现在也不再抱怨，或者看起来你需要任何帮助，”乔疑惑地说。

‘I gave my best to the country I love, and kept my tears till he was gone. Why should I complain, when we both have merely done our duty and will surely be the happier for it in the end? If I don’t seem to need help, it is because I have a better friend, even than Father, to comfort and sustain me. My child, the troubles and temptations of your life are beginning and may be many, but you can overcome and outlive them all if you learn to feel the strength and tenderness of your Heavenly Father as you do that of your earthly one. The more you love and trust Him, and the less you will depend on human power and wisdom. His love and care never tire or change, can never be taken from you, but my become the source of lifelong peace, happiness, and strength. Believe this heartily, and go to God with all your little cares, and hopes, and sins, and sorrows, as freely and confidingly as you come to your mother.’
“我把最好的献给了我所爱的国家，并一直流着泪，直到他离开。当我们都只是尽了自己的职责并且最终肯定会因此而更加快乐时，我为什么要抱怨呢？如果我看起来不需要帮助，那是因为我有一个比父亲更好的朋友来安慰和支持我。我的孩子，你生命中的麻烦和诱惑正在开始，而且可能会很多，但如果你学会像感受尘世之父那样感受天父的力量和温柔，你就能克服并战胜它们。你越爱他、越信靠他，你就越少依赖人的力量和智慧。他的爱和关怀永远不会厌倦或改变，永远不会从你身上夺走，但他成为我一生平安、幸福和力量的源泉。衷心地相信这一点，带着你所有的小忧虑、希望、罪恶和悲伤来到上帝面前，就像你来到你母亲面前一样自由和信任。

Jo’s only answer was to hold her mother close, and in the silence which followed the sincerest prayer she had ever prayed left her heart without words. For in that sad yet happy hour, she had learned not only the bitterness of remorse and despair, but the sweetness of self-denial and self-control, and led by her mother’s hand, she had drawn nearer to the Friend who always welcomes every child with a love stronger than that of any father, tenderer than that of any mother.
乔唯一的回答就是紧紧地抱住她的母亲，在她最真诚的祈祷之后的沉默中，她的心无言以对。因为在那个悲伤而又幸福的时刻，她不仅学会了悔恨和绝望的苦涩，也学会了克己和自制的甜蜜，并在母亲的手的带领下，更加接近了永远欢迎每一位朋友的朋友。孩子的爱比任何父亲的爱更强烈，比任何母亲的爱更温柔。

Amy stirred and sighed in her sleep, and as if eager to begin at once to mend her fault, l Jo looked up with an expression on her face which it had never worn before.
艾米在睡梦中动了动，叹了口气，乔抬起头，脸上露出了以前从未有过的表情，仿佛急于立即开始弥补自己的过错。

‘I let the sun go down on my anger. I wouldn’t forgive her, and today, if it hadn’t been for Laurie, it might have been too late! How could I be so wicked?’ said Jo, half aloud, as she leaned over her sister softly stroking the wet hair scattered on the pillow.
‘我让太阳在我的愤怒中落下。我不会原谅她，今天，如果没有劳里，可能就太晚了！ “我怎么能这么邪恶？”乔低声说道，同时俯身在姐姐身上，轻轻地抚摸着散落在枕头上的湿头发。

As if she heard, Amy opened her eyes, and held out her arms, with a smile that went straight to Jo’s heart. Neither said a word, but they hugged one another close, in spite of the blankets, and everything was forgiven and forgotten in one hearty kiss.
艾米仿佛听到了一样，睁开了眼睛，伸出双臂，笑容直入乔的心里。两人谁也没说一句话，但尽管盖着毯子，他们还是紧紧地拥抱在一起，一切都在一个热烈的吻中被原谅和忘记。

CHAPTER NINE
第九章

‘I do think it was the most fortunate thing in the world that those children should have the measles just now,’ said Meg, one April day, as she stood packing the ‘go abroady’ trunk in her room, surrounded by her sisters.
四月的一天，梅格站在房间里收拾“出国”行李箱，周围都是姐妹们，她说：“我确实认为，这些孩子现在就得了麻疹，真是世界上最幸运的事情。”

‘And so nice of Annie Moffat not to forget her promise. A whole fortnight of fun will be regularly splendid,’ replied Jo, looking like a windmill as she folded skirts with her long arms.
“安妮·莫法特真好，没有忘记她的诺言。整整两周的乐趣一定会很精彩。”乔回答道，她用长臂折叠裙子，看起来像风车。

‘And such lovely weather, I’m so glad of that,’ added Beth, tidily sorting neck and hair ribbons in her best box, lent for the great occasion.
“天气如此宜人，我对此感到非常高兴，”贝丝补充道，她把脖子和发带整齐地整理在她最好的盒子里，这是为这个伟大的场合借来的。

‘I wish I was going to have a fine time and wear all these nice things,’ said Amy with her mouth full of pins, as she artistically replenished her sister’s cushion.
“我希望我能度过一段愉快的时光，穿上所有这些漂亮的东西，”艾米嘴里塞满了别针，一边艺术地给姐姐的坐垫补充着东西。

‘I wish you were all going, but as you can’t, I shall keep my adventures to tell you when I come back. I’m sure it’s the least I can do when you have been so kind, lending me things and helping me get ready,’ said Meg, glancing round the room at the very simple outfit, which seemed nearly perfect in their eyes.
“我希望你们都走，但既然你们不能，我会在回来时把我的冒险经历告诉你们。” “我确信这是我能做的最起码的事情，因为你们如此友善，借给我东西并帮助我做好准备。”梅格说，环顾房间，看看这套非常简单的衣服，在他们眼中这看起来几乎是完美的。

‘What did Mother give you out of the treasure box?’ asked Amy, who had not been present at the opening of a certain cedar chest in which Mrs. March kept a few relics of past splendor, as gifts for her girls when the proper time came.
“母亲从宝箱里给了你什么？”艾米问，她没有出席某个雪松箱子的打开仪式，马奇夫人在箱子里保存了一些过去辉煌的遗物，作为适当时候送给女儿们的礼物。时间到了。

‘A pair of silk stockings, that pretty carved fan, and a lovely blue sash. I wanted the violet silk, but there isn’t time to make it over, so I must be contented with my old tarlatan.’
“一双丝袜，那把漂亮的雕花扇子，还有一条可爱的蓝色腰带。我想要紫罗兰色的丝绸，但没有时间重新制作，所以我必须对我的旧塔拉坦感到满意。

‘It will look nice over my new muslin skirt, and the sash will set it off beautifully. I wish I hadn’t smashed my coral bracelet, for you might have had it,’ said Jo, who loved to give and lend, but whose possessions were usually too dilapidated to be of much use.
“它搭配我的新平纹细布裙子会很漂亮，腰带也会把它衬托得很漂亮。”我希望我没有打碎我的珊瑚手镯，因为你可能已经拥有它了，”乔说。她喜欢给予和借出，但她的财产通常太破旧，没有多大用处。

‘There is a lovely old-fashioned pearl set in the treasure chest, but Mother said real flowers were the prettiest ornament for a young girl, and Laurie promised to send me all I want,’ replied Meg. ‘Now, let me see, there’s my new gray walking suit, just curl up the feather in my hat, Beth, then my poplin for Sunday and the small party, it looks heavy for spring, doesn’t it? The violet silk would be so nice. Oh, dear!’
“宝箱里有一颗可爱的老式珍珠，但妈妈说真正的鲜花是年轻女孩最漂亮的装饰品，劳里答应给我送我想要的一切，”梅格回答道。 “现在，让我看看，这是我的新灰色步行服，只需将帽子上的羽毛卷起来，贝丝，然后是周日和小型聚会的府绸，它看起来很适合春天，不是吗？紫罗兰色的丝绸会很好看。哦亲爱的！'

‘Never mind, you’ve got the tarlatan for the big party, and you always look like an angel in white,’ said Amy, brooding over the little store of finery in which her soul delighted.
“没关系，你已经为大型聚会准备了塔拉坦呢，而且你看起来总是像白衣天使，”艾米说道，一边沉思着她灵魂所喜爱的那件小服饰。

‘It isn’t low-necked, and it doesn’t sweep enough, but it will have to do. My blue housedress looks so well, turned and freshly trimmed, that I feel as if I’d got a new one. My silk sacque isn’t a bit the fashion, and my bonnet doesn’t look like Sallie’s. I didn’t like to say anything, but I was sadly disappointed in my umbrella. I told Mother black with a white handle, but she forgot and bought a green one with a yellowish handle. It’s strong and neat, so I ought not to complain, but I know I shall feel ashamed of it beside Annie’s silk one with a gold top,’ sighed Meg, surveying the little umbrella with great disfavor.
“它领口不够低，扫地也不够，但也只能这样了。”我的蓝色家居服看起来非常漂亮，经过翻修和新修剪，我感觉就像换了一件新衣服一样。我的丝绸囊不太时尚，我的帽子看起来也不像莎莉的。我不想说什么，但我对我的雨伞感到非常失望。我告诉妈妈黑色的，白色的手柄，但她忘了，买了一个绿色的，淡黄色的手柄。它又坚固又整洁，所以我不应该抱怨，但我知道，把它放在安妮那把金色顶部的丝绸伞旁边，我会感到羞愧。”梅格叹了口气，非常不喜欢地打量着这把小伞。

‘Change it,’ advised Jo.
“改变它，”乔建议道。

‘I won’t be so silly, or hurt Marmee’s feelings, when she took so much pains to get my things. It’s a nonsensical notion of mine, and I’m not going to give up to it. My silk stockings and two pairs of new gloves are my comfort. You are a dear to lend me yours, Jo. I feel so rich and sort of elegant, with two new pairs, and the old ones cleaned up for common.’ And Meg took a refreshing peep at her glove box. ‘Annie Moffat has blue and pink bows on her nightcaps. Would you put some on mine?’ she asked, as Beth brought up a pile of snowy muslins, fresh from Hannah’s hands.
“我不会那么傻，也不会伤害妈妈的感情，因为她费尽心机才得到我的东西。这是我的一个荒谬的想法，我不会放弃它。我的丝袜和两双新手套让我感到安慰。乔，你把你的借给我真是太好了。我感觉自己很富有，也很优雅，有两双新鞋，旧鞋也被清理干净了。”梅格看了一眼她的手套箱，心情焕然一新。 “安妮·莫法特的睡帽上有蓝色和粉色的蝴蝶结。你能在我的身上穿上一些吗？”当贝丝端出一堆刚从汉娜手里拿来的雪白平纹细布时，她问道。

‘No, I wouldn’t, for the smart caps won’t match the plain gowns without any trimming on them. Poor folks shouldn’t rig,’ said Jo decidedly.
“不，我不会，因为智能帽子与没有任何装饰的素色礼服不相配。穷人不应该操纵。”乔斩钉截铁地说。

‘I wonder if I shall ever be happy enough to have real lace on my clothes and bows on my caps?’ said Meg impatiently.
“我不知道我是否会幸福到衣服上有真正的蕾丝，帽子上有蝴蝶结？”梅格不耐烦地说。

‘You said the other day that you’d be perfectly happy if you could only go to Annie Moffat’s,’ observed Beth in her quiet way.
“你有一天说过，如果你能去安妮·莫法特家，你会非常高兴。”贝丝平静地说道。

‘So I did! Well, I am happy, and I won’t fret, but it does seem as if the more one gets the more one wants, doesn’t it? There now, the trays are ready, and everything in but my ball dress, which I shall leave for Mother to pack,’ said Meg, cheering up, as she glanced from the half-filled trunk to the many times pressed and mended white tarlatan, which she called her ‘ball dress’ with an important air.
'所以我做了！嗯，我很高兴，我不会担心，但似乎得到的越多，想要的就越多，不是吗？现在，托盘已经准备好了，除了我的舞会礼服之外，所有的东西都已经准备好了，我要把它留给妈妈收拾。”梅格高兴地说，她的目光从装满一半的箱子转向经过多次熨烫和修补的白色塔拉坦呢。 ，她带着重要的神气称她为“舞会礼服”。

The next day was fine, and Meg departed in style for a fortnight of novelty and pleasure. Mrs. March had consented to the visit rather reluctantly, fearing that Margaret would come back more discontented than she went. But she begged so hard, and Sallie had promised to take good care of her, and a little pleasure seemed so delightful after a winter of irksome work that the mother yielded, and the daughter went to take her first taste of fashionable life.
第二天天气晴朗，梅格潇洒地离开了，度过了两周的新奇和快乐。马奇夫人相当不情愿地同意了这次访问，担心玛格丽特回来后会比去时更加不满。但她苦苦哀求，莎莉也答应好好照顾她，经过一个冬天的烦人工作后，一点点快乐似乎是那么令人愉快，母亲屈服了，女儿去第一次尝到了时尚生活的滋味。

The Moffats were very fashionable, and simple Meg was rather daunted, at first, by the splendor of the house and the elegance of its occupants. But they were kindly people, in spite of the frivolous life they led, and soon put their guest at her ease. Perhaps Meg felt, without understanding why, that they were not particularly cultivated or intelligent people, and that all their gilding could not quite conceal the ordinary material of which they were made. It certainly was agreeable to fare sumptuously, drive in a fine carriage, wear her best frock every day, and do nothing but enjoy herself. It suited her exactly, and soon she began to imitate the manners and conversation of those about her, to put on little airs and graces, use French phrases, crimp her hair, take in her dresses, and talk about the fashions as well as she could. The more she saw of Annie Moffat’s pretty things, the more she envied her and sighed to be rich. Home now looked bare and dismal as she thought of it, work grew harder than ever, and she felt that she was a very destitute and much-injured girl, in spite of the new gloves and silk stockings.
莫法特一家非常时尚，朴素的梅格一开始被这座房子的辉煌和居住者的优雅所吓倒。尽管他们过着轻浮的生活，但他们都是善良的人，很快就让他们的客人感到轻松自在。也许梅格觉得，不明白为什么，他们不是特别有教养或聪明的人，他们所有的镀金都不能完全掩盖他们的普通材料。吃得很丰盛，开着一辆漂亮的马车，每天穿着她最好的衣服，除了享受自己什么也不做，这当然是令人愉快的。这完全适合她，很快她就开始模仿周围人的举止和谈吐，摆出小架子和优雅的样子，说法语短语，卷曲她的头发，穿上她的衣服，谈论时尚以及她的时尚。可以。她越看安妮莫法特的漂亮东西，就越羡慕她，感叹自己很有钱。现在回想起来，家显得空荡荡、凄凉，工作比以往任何时候都更加辛苦，尽管有新手套和丝袜，她还是觉得自己是一个非常贫困、受过重伤的女孩。

She had not much time for repining, however, for the three young girls were busily employed in ‘having a good time’. They shopped, walked, rode, and called all day, went to theaters and operas or frolicked at home in the evening, for Annie had many friends and knew how to entertain them. Her older sisters were very fine young ladies, and one was engaged, which was extremely interesting and romantic, Meg thought. Mr. Moffat was a fat, jolly old gentleman, who knew her father, and Mrs. Moffat, a fat, jolly old lady, who took as great a fancy to Meg as her daughter had done. Everyone petted her, and ‘Daisey’, as they called her, was in a fair way to have her head turned.
不过，她也没有太多的时间去抱怨，因为三个少女正忙着‘玩得开心’。他们整天购物、散步、骑马、打电话，晚上去剧院、听歌剧院或在家嬉闹，因为安妮有很多朋友，知道如何招待他们。她的姐姐们都是非常优秀的年轻女士，其中一个已经订婚了，这非常有趣和浪漫，梅格想。莫法特先生是一位肥胖、快乐的老绅士，他认识她的父亲；莫法特太太是一位肥胖、快乐的老太太，她像她女儿一样非常喜欢梅格。每个人都爱抚她，而“黛西”（他们这样称呼她）很自然地让她转过头来。

When the evening for the small party came, she found that the poplin wouldn’t do at all, for the other girls were putting on thin dresses and making themselves very fine indeed. So out came the tarlatan, looking older, limper, and shabbier than ever beside Sallie’s crisp new one. Meg saw the girls glance at it and then at one another, and her cheeks began to burn, for with all her gentleness she was very proud. No one said a word about it, but Sallie offered to dress her hair, and Annie to tie her sash, and Belle, the engaged sister, praised her white arms. But in their kindness Meg saw only pity for her poverty, and her heart felt very heavy as she stood by herself, while the others laughed, chattered, and flew about like gauzy butterflies. The hard, bitter feeling was getting pretty bad, when the maid brought in a box of flowers. Before she could speak, Annie had the cover off, and all were exclaiming at the lovely roses, heath, and fern within.
当小型聚会的晚上到来时，她发现府绸根本不适合，因为其他女孩都穿上了单薄的衣服，把自己打扮得非常漂亮。塔拉坦布就这样出来了，与萨莉那件清爽的新塔拉坦布相比，它看起来比以往任何时候都更老、更软、更破旧。梅格看到女孩们看了一眼，然后又互相看了一眼，她的脸颊开始发热，尽管她很温柔，但她却很自豪。没有人对此说一句话，但莎莉主动帮她梳理头发，安妮帮她系腰带，而订婚的妹妹贝拉则称赞她白皙的手臂。但在他们的善意中，梅格只看到了对她贫穷的怜悯，她一个人站着，心情很沉重，而其他人则笑着，喋喋不休，像轻纱蝴蝶一样飞来飞去。当女仆送来一盒花时，那种苦涩的感觉越来越难受。安妮还没来得及说话，就把盖子打开了，所有人都对里面可爱的玫瑰、石南和蕨类植物惊叹不已。

‘It’s for Belle, of course, George always sends her some, but these are altogether ravishing,’ cried Annie, with a great sniff.
“当然，这是给贝儿的，乔治总是送她一些，但这些都非常令人着迷。”安妮吸了吸鼻子，大声说道。

‘They are for Miss March, the man said. And here’s a note,’ put in the maid, holding it to Meg.
“这是给马奇小姐的，”那人说。这是一张纸条，”女仆递过来，递给梅格。

‘What fun! Who are they from? Didn’t know you had a lover,’ cried the girls, fluttering about Meg in a high state of curiosity and surprise.
‘多有趣啊！他们来自谁？不知道你有情人了，”女孩们喊道，带着高度的好奇和惊讶，在梅格周围飘来飘去。

‘The note is from Mother, and the flowers from Laurie,’ said Meg simply, yet much gratified that he had not forgotten her.
“这封信是母亲寄来的，鲜花是劳里寄来的。”梅格简单地说，但很高兴他没有忘记她。

‘Oh, indeed!’ said Annie with a funny look, as Meg slipped the note into her pocket as a sort of talisman against envy, vanity, and false pride, for the few loving words had done her good, and the flowers cheered her up by their beauty.
“哦，确实如此！”安妮一脸滑稽地说，梅格把这张纸条塞进口袋，当作对抗嫉妒、虚荣和虚假骄傲的护身符，因为几句充满爱意的话语对她有好处，鲜花也让她高兴起来。被她们的美丽所吸引。

Feeling almost happy again, she laid by a few ferns and roses for herself, and quickly made up the rest in dainty bouquets for the breasts, hair, or skirts of her friends, offering them so prettily that Clara, the elder sister, told her she was ‘the sweetest little thing she ever saw’, and they looked quite charmed with her small attention. Somehow the kind act finished her despondency, and when all the rest went to show themselves to Mrs. Moffat, she saw a happy, bright-eyed face in the mirror, as she laid her ferns against her rippling hair and fastened the roses in the dress that didn’t strike her as so very shabby now.
她几乎又感到幸福了，她为自己准备了一些蕨类植物和玫瑰，然后迅速将剩下的做成精美的花束，送给朋友们的胸部、头发或裙子，把它们送给姐姐克拉拉，她告诉她，它们非常漂亮。她是“她见过的最可爱的小东西”，他们看起来对她的小关注很着迷。不知怎的，这个善意的举动消除了她的沮丧，当其他人都去见莫法特太太时，她在镜子里看到了一张快乐、明亮的脸，她把蕨类植物放在她飘逸的头发上，把玫瑰花固定在镜子上。现在她并不觉得这件衣服那么破旧。

She enjoyed herself very much that evening, for she danced to her heart’s content. Everyone was very kind, and she had three compliments. Annie made her sing, and some one said she had a remarkably fine voice. Major Lincoln asked who ‘the fresh little girl with the beautiful eyes’ was, and Mr. Moffat insisted on dancing with her because she ‘didn’t dawdle, but had some spring in her’, as he gracefully expressed it. So altogether she had a very nice time, till she overheard a bit of conversation, which disturbed her extremely. She was sitting just inside the conservatory, waiting for her partner to bring her an ice, when she heard a voice ask on the other side of the flowery wall...
那天晚上她玩得很开心，因为她尽情地跳舞。每个人都非常友善，她得到了三个赞美。安妮让她唱歌，有人说她的声音非常好听。林肯少校问“那个有着美丽眼睛的清新小女孩”是谁，莫法特先生坚持要和她跳舞，因为正如他优雅地表达的那样，她“没有磨磨蹭蹭，而是充满了活力”。总而言之，她玩得很开心，直到她无意中听到了一些谈话，这让她感到非常不安。她正坐在温室里，等待伴侣给她送来冰块，这时她听到花墙的另一边有一个声音问道……

‘How old is he?’
'他几岁了？'

‘Sixteen or seventeen, I should say,’ replied another voice.
“我应该说是十六或十七。”另一个声音回答道。

‘It would be a grand thing for one of those girls, wouldn’t it? Sallie says they are very intimate now, and the old man quite dotes on them.’
“对于其中一个女孩来说，这将是一件伟大的事情，不是吗？萨莉说他们现在很亲密，老人也很宠他们。

‘Mrs. M. has made her plans, I dare say, and will play her cards well, early as it is. The girl evidently doesn’t think of it yet,’ said Mrs. Moffat.
'太太。我敢说，M.已经制定了她的计划，并且会尽早打好她的牌。 “这个女孩显然还没有想到这一点，”莫法特夫人说道。

‘She told that fib about her momma, as if she did know, and colored up when the flowers came quite prettily. Poor thing! She’d be so nice if she was only got up in style. Do you think she’d be offended if we offered to lend her a dress for Thursday?’ asked another voice.
“她说了关于她妈妈的谎言，就好像她确实知道一样，当花开得非常漂亮时，她的脸色就红了。”可怜的东西！如果她打扮得时尚一点，那就太好了。你认为如果我们周四借给她一件衣服，她会生气吗？”另一个声音问道。

‘She’s proud, but I don’t believe she’d mind, for that dowdy tarlatan is all she has got. She may tear it tonight, and that will be a good excuse for offering a decent one.’
“她很自豪，但我相信她不会介意，因为那件破旧的塔拉坦布就是她的全部了。”她今晚可能会把它撕掉，这将是一个提供像样的东西的好借口。

Here Meg’s partner appeared, to find her looking much flushed and rather agitated. She was proud, and her pride was useful just then, for it helped her hide her mortification, anger, and disgust at what she had just heard. For, innocent and unsuspicious as she was, she could not help understanding the gossip of her friends. She tried to forget it, but could not, and kept repeating to herself, ‘Mrs. M. has made her plans,’ ‘that fib about her mamma,’ and ‘dowdy tarlatan,’ till she was ready to cry and rush home to tell her troubles and ask for advice. As that was impossible, she did her best to seem gay, and being rather excited, she succeeded so well that no one dreamed what an effort she was making. She was very glad when it was all over and she was quiet in her bed, where she could think and wonder and fume till her head ached and her hot cheeks were cooled by a few natural tears. Those foolish, yet well meant words, had opened a new world to Meg, and much disturbed the peace of the old one in which till now she had lived as happily as a child. Her innocent friendship with Laurie was spoiled by the silly speeches she had overheard. Her faith in her mother was a little shaken by the worldly plans attributed to her by Mrs. Moffat, who judged others by herself, and the sensible resolution to be contented with the simple wardrobe which suited a poor man’s daughter was weakened by the unnecessary pity of girls who thought a shabby dress one of the greatest calamities under heaven.
梅格的伴侣出现了，发现她脸色涨红，而且相当焦躁。她很骄傲，而她的骄傲此时很有用，因为它帮助她隐藏了对刚刚听到的事情的屈辱、愤怒和厌恶。因为，尽管她天真无邪，毫无疑心，她还是无法不理解朋友们的闲言碎语。她试图忘记这件事，但做不到，她不断地对自己重复道：“夫人。” M.已经制定了她的计划，“关于她妈妈的谎言”和“邋遢的塔拉坦”，直到她准备好哭泣并冲回家诉说她的烦恼并寻求建议。由于这是不可能的，她尽最大努力让自己看起来很同性恋，而且相当兴奋，她成功得如此之好，以至于没有人梦想她付出了多大的努力。当这一切都结束时，她非常高兴，她安静地躺在床上，在那里她可以思考、惊奇和发烟，直到她的头疼痛，她滚烫的脸颊被几滴自然的泪水冷却。这些愚蠢而善意的话，为梅格打开了一个新世界，极大地扰乱了旧世界的平静，直到现在，她还像个孩子一样快乐地生活在其中。她与劳里的纯真友谊被她无意中听到的愚蠢言论破坏了。她对母亲的信心因莫法特夫人对她的世俗计划而动摇，莫法特夫人以自己的眼光来评判他人，而满足于适合穷人女儿的简单服装的明智决心也因不必要的怜悯而被削弱。那些认为破旧的衣服是天底下最大的灾难之一的女孩们。

Poor Meg had a restless night, and got up heavy-eyed, unhappy, half resentful toward her friends, and half ashamed of herself for not speaking out frankly and setting everything right. Everybody dawdled that morning, and it was noon before the girls found energy enough even to take up their worsted work. Something in the manner of her friends struck Meg at once. They treated her with more respect, she thought, took quite a tender interest in what she said, and looked at her with eyes that plainly betrayed curiosity. All this surprised and flattered her, though she did not understand it till Miss Belle looked up from her writing, and said, with a sentimental air...
可怜的梅格度过了一个不安宁的夜晚，起床时眼神沉重，不高兴，一半是对她的朋友怨恨，一半是为自己没有坦白说出来并把一切都摆正而感到羞愧。那天早上，每个人都在磨磨蹭蹭，直到中午，女孩们才找到足够的精力去从事她们的精纺工作。梅格立即对她朋友们的态度感到震惊。她想，他们对她更加尊重，对她所说的话表现出浓厚的兴趣，用明显流露出好奇的眼神看着她。这一切让她感到惊讶和受宠若惊，尽管她一直不明白，直到贝儿小姐从写着的书上抬起头来，带着感伤的神情说道……

‘Daisy, dear, I’ve sent an invitation to your friend, Mr. Laurence, for Thursday. We should like to know him, and it’s only a proper compliment to you.’
“黛西，亲爱的，我已经向你的朋友劳伦斯先生发出了周四的邀请。我们很想认识他，这只是对你的适当赞美。

Meg colored, but a mischievous fancy to tease the girls made her reply demurely, ‘You are very kind, but I’m afraid he won’t come.’
梅格脸色红了，但她想恶作剧地逗弄女孩们，所以她故作严肃地回答道：“你很好心，但我担心他不会来。”

‘Why not, Cherie?’ asked Miss Belle.
“为什么不呢，切丽？”贝尔小姐问道。

‘He’s too old.’
“他太老了。”

‘My child, what do you mean? What is his age, I beg to know!’ cried Miss Clara.
‘我的孩子，你这是什么意思？ “我想知道他的年龄！”克拉拉小姐喊道。

‘Nearly seventy, I believe,’ answered Meg, counting stitches to hide the merriment in her eyes.
“我想，快七十了。”梅格一边回答，一边数着针数，以掩饰眼中的喜悦。

‘You sly creature! Of course we meant the young man,’ exclaimed Miss Belle, laughing.
‘你这个狡猾的生物！当然，我们指的是那个年轻人。”贝尔小姐笑着说道。

‘There isn’t any, Laurie is only a little boy.’ And Meg laughed also at the queer look which the sisters exchanged as she thus described her supposed lover. ‘About you age,’ Nan said.
“没有，劳里只是一个小男孩。”当梅格描述她所谓的情人时，姐妹们交换了奇怪的眼神，梅格也笑了。 “和你年纪差不多，”南说。

‘Nearer my sister Jo’s, I am seventeen in August,’ returned Meg, tossing her head.
“八月份我十七岁了，离我姐姐乔家更近了。”梅格摇摇头回答道。

‘It’s very nice of him to send you flowers, isn’t it?’ said Annie, looking wise about nothing.
“他送你花真是太好了，不是吗？”安妮说道，看上去似乎什么也不知道。

‘Yes, he often does, to all of us, for their house is full, and we are so fond of them. My mother and old Mr. Laurence are friends, you know, so it is quite natural that we children should play together.’ And Meg hoped they would say no more.
“是的，他经常对我们所有人这样做，因为他们的房子已经满了，而且我们非常喜欢他们。你知道，我的母亲和老劳伦斯先生是朋友，所以我们这些孩子一起玩是很自然的。”梅格希望他们不要再说了。

‘It’s evident Daisy isn’t out yet,’ said Miss Clara to Belle with a nod.
“显然黛西还没有出来，”克拉拉小姐点点头对贝儿说道。

‘Quite a pastoral state of innocence all round,’ returned Miss Belle with a shrug.
“到处都是田园诗般的天真无邪，”贝尔小姐耸耸肩回答道。

‘I’m going out to get some little matters for my girls. Can I do anything for you, young ladies?’ asked Mrs. Moffat, lumbering in like an elephant in silk and lace.
“我要出去为我的女儿们处理一些小事。 “小姐们，我能为你们做点什么吗？”莫法特太太问道，她像一头穿着丝绸和蕾丝的大象一样缓慢地走了进来。

‘No, thank you, ma’am,’ replied Sallie. ‘I’ve got my new pink silk for Thursday and don’t want a thing.’
“不，谢谢你，女士，”萨莉回答道。 “我周四买了一件新的粉红色丝绸，什么都不想要。”

‘Nor I...’ began Meg, but stopped because it occurred to her that she did want several things and could not have them.
“我也不……”梅格开口说道，但又停了下来，因为她突然想到，她确实想要一些东西，但却无法拥有。

‘What shall you wear?’ asked Sallie.
“你穿什么？”莎莉问。

‘My old white one again, if I can mend it fit to be seen, it got sadly torn last night,’ said Meg, trying to speak quite easily, but feeling very uncomfortable.
“又是我那件旧的白色的，如果我能把它修好，让大家看到的话，它昨晚就被撕破了，”梅格说，试图轻松地说出来，但感觉很不舒服。

‘Why don’t you send home for another?’ said Sallie, who was not an observing young lady.
“你为什么不回家再找一个呢？”莎莉说道，她不是一个善于观察的年轻女士。

‘I haven’t got any other.’ It cost Meg an effort to say that, but Sallie did not see it and exclaimed in amiable surprise, ‘Only that?’ How funny...’ She did not finish her speech, for Belle shook her head at her and broke in, saying kindly...
“我没有其他的了。”梅格费了好大劲才说出这句话，但莎莉没有看到，她和蔼可亲地惊讶地喊道，“只有这个？”真有趣……”她没有把话说完，因为贝儿对她摇了摇头，插话道，善意地说……

‘Not at all. Where is the use of having a lot of dresses when she isn’t out yet? There’s no need of sending home, Daisy, even if you had a dozen, for I’ve got a sweet blue silk laid away, which I’ve outgrown, and you shall wear it to please me, won’t you, dear?’
'一点也不。还没出门，穿那么多衣服有什么用呢？黛西，即使你有一打，也没有必要送回家，因为我已经准备好了一条甜美的蓝色丝绸，我已经穿不下了，你应该穿着它来取悦我，不是吗，亲爱的？ '

‘You are very kind, but I don’t mind my old dress if you don’t, it does well enough for a little girl like me,’ said Meg.
“你非常友善，但如果你不介意的话，我也不介意我的旧衣服，对于像我这样的小女孩来说，它已经足够好了，”梅格说。

‘Now do let me please myself by dressing you up in style. I admire to do it, and you’d be a regular little beauty with a touch here and there. I shan’t let anyone see you till you are done, and then we’ll burst upon them like Cinderella and her godmother going to the ball,’ said Belle in her persuasive tone.
“现在就让我把你打扮得漂漂亮亮吧，让我自己高兴一下。”我很高兴这样做，你会成为一个普通的小美女，到处都有一点点。在你完成之前我不会让任何人看到你，然后我们就会像灰姑娘和她的教母去参加舞会一样冲向他们。”贝儿用她有说服力的语气说道。

Meg couldn’t refuse the offer so kindly made, for a desire to see if she would be ‘a little beauty’ after touching up caused her to accept and forget all her former uncomfortable feelings toward the Moffats.
梅格无法拒绝如此善意的提议，因为她想看看自己修饰后是否会变得“小美人”，这让她接受并忘记了以前对莫法特夫妇的所有不舒服的感觉。

On the Thursday evening, Belle shut herself up with her maid, and between them they turned Meg into a fine lady. They crimped and curled her hair, they polished her neck and arms with some fragrant powder, touched her lips with coralline salve to make them redder, and Hortense would have added ‘a soupcon of rouge’, if Meg had not rebelled. They laced her into a sky-blue dress, which was so tight she could hardly breathe and so low in the neck that modest Meg blushed at herself in the mirror. A set of silver filagree was added, bracelets, necklace, brooch, and even earrings, for Hortense tied them on with a bit of pink silk which did not show. A cluster of tea-rose buds at the bosom and a ruche, reconciled Meg to the display of her pretty, white shoulders, and a pair of high-heeled silk boots satisfied the last wish of her heart. A lace handkerchief, a plumy fan, and a bouquet in a shoulder holder finished her off, and Miss Belle surveyed her with the satisfaction of a little girl with a newly dressed doll.
星期四晚上，贝拉和她的女仆把自己关起来，她们把梅格变成了一位优雅的女士。他们把她的头发卷曲、卷曲，用一些香粉擦亮她的脖子和手臂，用珊瑚药膏擦她的嘴唇，让它们变得更红，如果梅格没有反抗的话，霍滕斯会加“一碗胭脂汤”。他们给她穿上了一件天蓝色的裙子，这条裙子太紧了，她几乎无法呼吸，而且脖子太低，谦虚的梅格对镜中的自己脸红了。添加了一套银丝，手镯，项链，胸针，甚至耳环，因为霍滕斯用一点粉红色的丝绸将它们绑在了一起，但没有露出来。胸前的一簇茶玫瑰花蕾和褶皱，让梅格调和了自己漂亮白皙的肩膀，一双高跟丝靴满足了她心中最后的愿望。一条花边手帕、一把羽毛扇子和肩托上的一束花就完成了她的收尾工作，贝拉小姐满意地打量着她，就像一个小女孩拿着新穿的洋娃娃一样。

‘Mademoiselle is chatmante, tres jolie, is she not?’ cried Hortense, clasping her hands in an affected rapture.
“小姐是个查曼特，特雷斯·朱莉，不是吗？”霍顿斯喊道，双手紧握，假装狂喜。

‘Come and show yourself,’ said Miss Belle, leading the way to the room where the others were waiting.
“来吧，展示一下自己。”贝尔小姐一边说着，一边领着大家走向其他人正在等待的房间。

As Meg went rustling after, with her long skirts trailing, her earrings tinkling, her curls waving, and her heart beating, she felt as if her fun had really begun at last, for the mirror had plainly told her that she was ‘a little beauty’. Her friends repeated the pleasing phrase enthusiastically, and for several minutes she stood, like a jackdaw in the fable, enjoying her borrowed plumes, while the rest chattered like a party of magpies.
当梅格窸窸窣窣地跟在后面，她的长裙拖着，耳环叮当作响，卷发飘扬，心在跳动，她觉得她的乐趣终于真正开始了，因为镜子清楚地告诉她，她“有点美丽'。她的朋友们热情地重复着这句令人愉悦的短语，她站了几分钟，就像寓言中的寒鸦，享受着借来的羽毛，而其他人则像一群喜鹊一样叽叽喳喳。

‘While I dress, do you drill her, Nan, in the management of her skirt and those French heels, or she will trip herself up. Take your silver butterfly, and catch up that long curl on the left side of her head, Clara, and don’t any of you disturb the charming work of my hands,’ said Belle, as she hurried away, looking well pleased with her success.
“南，当我穿衣服的时候，你会训练她如何管理裙子和法式高跟鞋，否则她会绊倒的。”带上你的银色蝴蝶，抓住她左边头的长卷发，克拉拉，你们谁都别打扰我那迷人的双手，”贝儿一边说，一边匆匆离去，看上去对她很满意。成功。

‘You don’t look a bit like yourself, but you are very nice. I’m nowhere beside you, for Belle has heaps of taste, and you’re quite French, I assure you. Let your flowers hang, don’t be so careful of them, and be sure you don’t trip,’ returned Sallie, trying not to care that Meg was prettier than herself.
‘虽然你看起来不太像你自己，但你人很好。我不在你身边，因为贝尔很有品味，而且你很法国人，我向你保证。让你的花挂起来吧，别太小心它们，确保你不会绊倒。”萨莉回答道，尽量不去在意梅格比她自己漂亮。

Keeping that warning carefully in mind, Margaret got safely downstairs and sailed into the drawing rooms where the Moffats and a few early guests were assembled. She very soon discovered that there is a charm about fine clothes which attracts a certain class of people and secures their respect. Several young ladies, who had taken no notice of her before, were very affectionate all of a sudden. Several young gentlemen, who had only stared at her at the other party, now not only stared, but asked to be introduced, and said all manner of foolish but agreeable things to her, and several old ladies, who sat on the sofas, and criticized the rest of the party, inquired who she was with an air of interest. She heard Mrs. Moffat reply to one of them...
玛格丽特牢记这一警告，安全地下楼，走进莫法夫妇和一些早期客人聚集的客厅。她很快就发现，精美的衣服有一种魅力，可以吸引特定阶层的人并赢得他们的尊重。几个原本没放在心上的小姐，一下子变得十分亲热。刚才对方只盯着她看的几个年轻绅士，现在不但盯着她看，还主动要求介绍，对她说了各种傻话，还说些好听的话，还有几个坐在沙发上的老太太，批评了其他人，饶有兴趣地询问她是谁。她听到莫法特夫人对其中一封的回复……

‘Daisy March—father a colonel in the army—one of our first families, but reverses of fortune, you know; intimate friends of the Laurences; sweet creature, I assure you; my Ned is quite wild about her.’
“黛西·马奇——父亲是陆军上校——我们的第一个家庭，但你知道，时运不济；劳伦斯夫妇的亲密朋友；可爱的生物，我向你保证；我的内德对她非常着迷。

‘Dear me!’ said the old lady, putting up her glass for another observation of Meg, who tried to look as if she had not heard and been rather shocked at Mrs. Moffat’s fibs. The ‘queer feeling’ did not pass away, but she imagined herself acting the new part of fine lady and so got on pretty well, though the tight dress gave her a side-ache, the train kept getting under her feet, and she was in constant fear lest her earrings should fly off and get lost or broken. She was flirting her fan and laughing at the feeble jokes of a young gentleman who tried to be witty, when she suddenly stopped laughing and looked confused, for just opposite, she saw Laurie. He was staring at her with undisguised surprise, and disapproval also, she thought, for though he bowed and smiled, yet something in his honest eyes made her blush and wish she had her old dress on. To complete her confusion, she saw Belle nudge Annie, and both glance from her to Laurie, who, she was happy to see, looked unusually boyish and shy.
“天哪！”老太太说，举起杯子再次观察梅格，梅格试图装出一副没有听到的样子，而且对莫法特太太的谎言感到相当震惊。 “奇怪的感觉”并没有消失，但她想象自己扮演了新的淑女角色，所以相处得很好，尽管紧身连衣裙让她感到侧痛，火车总是从她脚下踩下来，她一直担心她的耳环会飞走、丢失或损坏。她正一边调弄着扇子，一边听着一位年轻绅士故作机智的无力笑话，突然笑不出来，一脸困惑，因为就在对面，她看到了劳里。她想，他正用毫不掩饰的惊讶和不以为然的眼神看着她，因为尽管他鞠躬微笑，但他诚实的眼神中的某些东西让她脸红，希望她能穿上旧衣服。更让她困惑的是，她看到贝儿推了安妮一下，两人的目光都从她身上转向劳里，她很高兴看到劳里看起来异常孩子气和害羞。

‘Silly creatures, to put such thoughts into my head. I won’t care for it, or let it change me a bit,’ thought Meg, and rustled across the room to shake hands with her friend.
‘愚蠢的生物，竟然把这样的想法塞进我的脑子里。我不会在意它，或者让它改变我一点，”梅格想，然后沙沙地穿过房间与她的朋友握手。

‘I’m glad you came, I was afraid you wouldn’t.’ she said, with her most grown-up air.
“我很高兴你来了，我担心你不会来。”她带着最成熟的神气说道。

‘Jo wanted me to come, and tell her how you looked, so I did,’ answered Laurie, without turning his eyes upon her, though he half smiled at her maternal tone.
“乔想让我过去，告诉她你的样子，所以我就这么做了。”劳里回答道，眼睛没有转向她，但对她母亲般的语气微微一笑。

‘What shall you tell her?’ asked Meg, full of curiosity to know his opinion of her, yet feeling ill at ease with him for the first time.
“你要告诉她什么？”梅格问道，她充满好奇地想知道他对她的看法，但第一次对他感到不自在。

‘I shall say I didn’t know you, for you look so grown-up and unlike yourself, I’m quite afraid of you,’ he said, fumbling at his glove button.
“我得说我不认识你，因为你看起来那么大人，不像你自己，我很害怕你，”他一边说，一边摸索着手套上的纽扣。

‘How absurd of you! The girls dressed me up for fun, and I rather like it. Wouldn’t Jo stare if she saw me?’ said Meg, bent on making him say whether he thought her improved or not. ‘Yes, I think she would,’ returned Laurie gravely.
‘你真荒唐！女孩们给我打扮得很有趣，我很喜欢。如果乔看到我，她不会盯着我看吗？”梅格说道，一心想让他说出他是否认为她有所进步。 “是的，我想她会的，”劳里严肃地回答道。

‘Don’t you like me so?’ asked Meg.
“你不那么喜欢我吗？”梅格问。

‘No, I don’t,’ was the blunt reply.
“不，我不，”他直率地回答。

‘Why not?’ in an anxious tone.
“为什么不呢？”语气焦急。

He glanced at her frizzled head, bare shoulders, and fantastically trimmed dress with an expression that abashed her more than his answer, which had not particle of his usual politeness in it.
他瞥了一眼她的卷发头、裸露的肩膀和剪裁精美的裙子，他的表情比他的回答更令她羞愧，他的回答完全没有他平时的礼貌。

‘I don’t like fuss and feathers.’
“我不喜欢大惊小怪和羽毛。”

That was altogether too much from a lad younger than herself, and Meg walked away, saying petulantly, ‘You are the rudest boy I ever saw.’
对于一个比她年轻的小伙子来说，这实在是太过分了，梅格走开了，脾气暴躁地说，“你是我见过的最粗鲁的男孩。”

Feeling very much ruffled, she went and stood at a quiet window to cool her cheeks, for the tight dress gave her an uncomfortably brilliant color. As she stood there, Major Lincoln passed by, and a minute after she heard him saying to his mother...
她感到非常烦躁，走到一扇安静的窗前站着凉凉脸颊，因为紧身连衣裙给她带来了一种令人不舒服的艳丽色彩。当她站在那里时，林肯少校经过，一分钟后她听到他对他的母亲说……

‘They are making a fool of that little girl. I wanted you to see her, but they have spoiled her entirely. She’s nothing but a doll tonight.’
‘他们在愚弄那个小女孩。我想让你见见她，但他们已经把她彻底宠坏了。今晚她只不过是一个洋娃娃。”

‘Oh, dear!’ sighed Meg. ‘I wish I’d been sensible and worn my own things, then I should not have disgusted other people, or felt so uncomfortable and ashamed of myself.’
“哦，天哪！”梅格叹了口气。 “我希望我当时是明智的，穿自己的东西，那么我就不应该让其他人感到厌恶，或者对自己感到如此不舒服和羞耻。”

She leaned her forehead on the cool pane, and stood half hidden by the curtains, never minding that her favorite waltz had begun, till some one touched her, and turning, she saw Laurie, looking penitent, as he said, with his very best bow and his hand out...
她把额头靠在凉爽的窗玻璃上，站在半遮着窗帘的地方，全然不顾她最喜欢的华尔兹已经开始，直到有人碰了碰她，转过身来，她看到劳里，正如他所说，一脸忏悔，带着他最好的样子。鞠躬，伸出手……

‘Please forgive my rudeness, and come and dance with me.’
“请原谅我的无礼，来和我跳舞吧。”

‘I’m afraid it will be to disagreeable to you,’ said Meg, trying to look offended and failing entirely.
“我担心这会让你不舒服，”梅格说，试图表现出被冒犯的样子，但完全失败了。

‘Not a bit of it, I’m dying to do it. Come, I’ll be good. I don’t like your gown, but I do think you are just splendid.’ And he waved his hands, as if words failed to express his admiration.
‘一点也不，我很想这么做。来吧，我会很好的。我不喜欢你的礼服，但我确实觉得你很漂亮。”他挥了挥手，仿佛言语无法表达他的钦佩。

Meg smiled and relented, and whispered as they stood waiting to catch the time, ‘Take care my skirt doesn’t trip you up. It’s the plague of my life and I was a goose to wear it.’
梅格微笑着，态度软化了，在他们站着等待时机时低声说道：“小心我的裙子别绊倒你。”这是我一生的瘟疫，而我戴上它真是太蠢了。”

‘Pin it round your neck, and then it will be useful,’ said Laurie, looking down at the little blue boots, which he evidently approved of. Away they went fleetly and gracefully, for having practiced at home, they were well matched, and the blithe young couple were a pleasant sight to see, as they twirled merrily round and round, feeling more friendly than ever after their small tiff.
“把它别在你脖子上，这样就会有用了，”劳里低头看着那双蓝色小靴子说道，显然他很喜欢这双靴子。他们走得轻快而优雅，因为在家里练习过，他们很般配，这对快乐的年轻夫妇令人赏心悦目，他们欢快地转了一圈又一圈，小争执之后感觉比以往任何时候都友好。

‘Laurie, I want you to do me a favor, will you?’ said Meg, as he stood fanning her when her breath gave out, which it did very soon though she would not own why.
“劳里，我想让你帮我一个忙，可以吗？”梅格说，当她喘不过气来时，他站在那里给她扇风，很快就喘不过气来了，尽管她不知道为什么。

‘Won’t I!’ said Laurie, with alacrity.
“我不会！”劳里高兴地说。

‘Please don’t tell them at home about my dress tonight. They won’t understand the joke, and it will worry Mother.’
“请不要在家里告诉他们我今晚穿的衣服。他们听不懂这个笑话，这会让妈妈担心。”

‘Then why did you do it?’ said Laurie’s eyes, so plainly that Meg hastily added...
“那你为什么要这么做？”劳里的眼神如此直白，梅格赶紧补充道……

‘I shall tell them myself all about it, and ‘fess’ to Mother how silly I’ve been. But I’d rather do it myself. So you’ll not tell, will you?’
“我会亲自告诉他们这一切，并向母亲‘承认’我是多么愚蠢。但我宁愿自己做。所以你不会说出来，是吗？

‘I give you my word I won’t, only what shall I say when they ask me?’
“我向你保证我不会，只是当他们问我时我该怎么说？”

‘Just say I looked pretty well and was having a good time.’
“只是说我看起来很好而且玩得很开心。”

‘I’ll say the first with all my heart, but how about the other? You don’t look as if you were having a good time. Are you?’ And Laurie looked at her with an expression which made her answer in a whisper...
“我会全心全意地说第一个，但是另一个呢？你看起来好像过得不太开心。你是吗？”劳里看着她，她的表情让她低声回答……

‘No, not just now. Don’t think I’m horrid. I only wanted a little fun, but this sort doesn’t pay, I find, and I’m getting tired of it.’
‘不，不只是现在。别以为我很可怕。我只想找点乐子，但我发现这种做法并没有什么回报，而且我已经厌倦了。”

‘Here comes Ned Moffat. What does he want?’ said Laurie, knitting his black brows as if he did not regard his young host in the light of a pleasant addition to the party.
“内德·莫法特来了。 “他想要什么？”劳里皱着眉头说道，好像他并没有把这位年轻的主人视为聚会中的一个令人愉快的成员。

‘He put his name down for three dances, and I suppose he’s coming for them. What a bore!’ said Meg, assuming a languid air which amused Laurie immensely.
“他为三场舞会写下了自己的名字，我想他一定会来参加的。真是无聊啊！”梅格一副无精打采的样子说道，这让劳里觉得好笑。

He did not speak to her again till suppertime, when he saw her drinking champagne with Ned and his friend Fisher, who were behaving ‘like a pair of fools’, as Laurie said to himself, for he felt a brotherly sort of right to watch over the Marches and fight their battles whenever a defender was needed.
直到晚饭时间，他才再次和她说话，当时他看到她和奈德以及他的朋友费舍尔一起喝香槟，正如劳里对自己说的那样，他们的行为“就像一对傻瓜”，因为他觉得有一种兄弟般的权利来观看。在行军上空，并在需要防守者时进行战斗。

‘You’ll have a splitting headache tomorrow, if you drink much of that. I wouldn’t, Meg, your mother doesn’t like it, you know,’ he whispered, leaning over her chair, as Ned turned to refill her glass and Fisher stooped to pick up her fan.
“如果你喝太多的话，明天你会头痛欲裂。”我不会，梅格，你知道，你妈妈不喜欢这样，”他靠在她的椅子上低声说道，这时内德转身给她倒酒，费舍尔弯腰拿起她的扇子。

‘I’m not Meg tonight, I’m ‘a doll’ who does all sorts of crazy things. Tomorrow I shall put away my ‘fuss and feathers’ and be desperately good again,’ se answered with an affected little laugh.
“今晚我不是梅格，我是一个做各种疯狂事情的​​‘洋娃娃’。明天我就会收起我的‘大惊小怪’，再次表现得非常好。”瑟假装笑道。

‘Wish tomorrow was here, then,’ muttered Laurie, walking off, ill-pleased at the change he saw in her.
“那么，希望明天就在这里。”劳里低声说道，走开，对他在她身上看到的变化感到不满。

Meg danced and flirted, chattered and giggled, as the other girls did. After supper she undertook the German, and blundered through it, nearly upsetting her partner with her long skirt, and romping in a way that scandalized Laurie, who looked on and meditated a lecture. But he got no chance to deliver it, for Meg kept away from him till he came to say good night.
梅格和其他女孩一样跳舞、调情、喋喋不休、咯咯笑。晚饭后，她开始学德语，结果跌跌撞撞，她的长裙差点惹恼了她的搭档，而且嬉戏的方式让劳里感到震惊，劳里在一旁观看并沉思着一场讲座。但他没有机会把它送出去，因为梅格一直远离他，直到他过来道晚安。

‘Remember!’ she said, trying to smile, for the splitting headache had already begun.
“记住！”她努力微笑着说道，因为头痛已经开始了。

‘Silence a‘ la mort,’ replied Laurie, with a melodramatic flourish, as he went away.
“死时保持沉默，”劳里在离开时用夸张的夸张语气回答道。

This little bit of byplay excited Annie’s curiosity, but Meg was too tired for gossip and went to bed, feeling as if she had been to a masquerade and hadn’t enjoyed herself as much as she expected. She was sick all the next day, and on Saturday went home, quite used up with her fortnight’s fun and feeling that she had ‘sat in the lap of luxury’ long enough.
这个小插曲激起了安妮的好奇心，但梅格太累了，不想再闲聊，就上床睡觉了，感觉自己好像参加了一场化装舞会，并没有像她想象的那样玩得开心。第二天她一整天都在生病，周六回家了，两周的乐趣让她精疲力尽，感觉自己“坐在奢华的腿上”已经够久了。

‘It does seem pleasant to be quiet, and not have company manners on all the time. Home is a nice place, though it isn’t splendid,’ said Meg, looking about her with a restful expression, as she sat with her mother and Jo on the Sunday evening.
“保持安静、不总是表现出公司礼仪似乎确实令人愉快。周日晚上，梅格与母亲和乔坐在一起，用一种平静的表情环顾四周，说道：“家是一个好地方，尽管并不华丽。”

‘I’m glad to hear you say so, dear, for I was afraid home would seem dull and poor to you after your fine quarters,’ replied her mother, who had given her many anxious looks that day. For motherly eyes are quick to see any change in children’s faces.
“我很高兴听到你这么说，亲爱的，因为我担心在你美好的住所之后，你的家会显得沉闷和贫穷，”她的母亲回答道，那天她向她投来了许多焦虑的目光。因为母亲的眼睛很快就能看到孩子脸上的任何变化。

Meg had told her adventures gayly and said over and over what a charming time she had had, but something still seemed to weigh upon her spirits, and when the younger girls were gone to bed, she sat thoughtfully staring at the fire, saying little and looking worried. As the clock struck nine and Jo proposed bed, Meg suddenly left her chair and, taking Beth’s stool, leaned her elbows on her mother’s knee, saying bravely...
梅格兴高采烈地讲述了她的冒险经历，一遍又一遍地说她度过了多么愉快的时光，但似乎仍然有什么东西压在她的精神上，当年轻的女孩们上床睡觉时，她若有所思地坐在那儿，盯着火，很少说话，也没有说话。看起来很担心。当时钟敲响九点，乔提议上床睡觉时，梅格突然离开椅子，拿起贝丝的凳子，把胳膊肘靠在母亲的膝盖上，勇敢地说……

‘Marmee, I want to ‘fess’.’
“妈妈，我想‘坦白’。”

‘I thought so. What is it, dear?’
'我是这么想的。亲爱的，这是什么？

‘Shall I go away?’ asked Jo discreetly.
“我要走吗？”乔小心翼翼地问道。

‘Of course not. Don’t I always tell you everything? I was ashamed to speak of it before the younger children, but I want you to know all the dreadful things I did at the Moffats’.’
'当然不是。我不是总是告诉你一切吗？我羞于在年幼的孩子们面前谈论这件事，但我想让你们知道我在莫法茨家所做的所有可怕的事情。

‘We are prepared,’ said Mrs. March, smiling but looking a little anxious.
“我们已经准备好了，”马奇夫人微笑着说，但看上去有点焦虑。

‘I told you they dressed me up, but I didn’t tell you that they powdered and squeezed and frizzled, and made me look like a fashion plate. Laurie thought I wasn’t proper. I know he did, though he didn’t say so, and one man called me ‘a doll’. I knew it was silly, but they flattered me and said I was a beauty, and quantities of nonsense, so I let them make a fool of me.’
“我告诉过你它们给我打扮得漂漂亮亮，但我没告诉过你它们给我扑粉、挤压、卷曲，让我看起来像一个时装盘。”劳里认为我不合适。我知道他做到了，尽管他没有这么说，还有一个人称我为“洋娃娃”。我知道这很傻，但他们却奉承我，说我是个美人，还废话一大堆，我就让他们愚弄我了。

‘Is that all?’ asked Jo, as Mrs. March looked silently at the downcast face of her pretty daughter, and could not find it in her heart to blame her little follies.
“就这些吗？”乔问道，马奇太太默默地看着她漂亮女儿那张沮丧的脸，心里找不到责怪她的小愚蠢行为。

‘No, I drank champagne and romped and tried to flirt, and was altogether abominable,’ said Meg self-reproachfully.
“不，我喝香槟，嬉闹，试图调情，真是令人厌恶，”梅格自责地说。

‘There is something more, I think.’ And Mrs. March smoothed the soft cheek, which suddenly grew rosy as Meg answered slowly...
“我想，还有更多的事情。”马奇太太抚平柔软的脸颊，梅格慢慢地回答，脸颊突然变得红润……

‘Yes. It’s very silly, but I want to tell it, because I hate to have people say and think such things about us and Laurie.’
'是的。这很愚蠢，但我想把它说出来，因为我讨厌人们对我们和劳里说这样的话、这样想。

Then she told the various bits of gossip she had heard at the Moffats’, and as she spoke, Jo saw her mother fold her lips tightly, as if ill pleased that such ideas should be put into Meg’s innocent mind.
然后她讲述了她在莫法茨家听到的各种八卦，当她说话时，乔看到她母亲紧紧地闭着嘴唇，似乎很高兴梅格天真的脑子里灌输了这些想法。

‘Well, if that isn’t the greatest rubbish I ever heard,’ cried Jo indignantly. ‘Why didn’t you pop out and tell them so on the spot?’
“好吧，如果这不是我听过的最糟糕的废话，”乔愤怒地喊道。 “你为什么不当场跳出来告诉他们呢？”

‘I couldn’t, it was so embarrassing for me. I couldn’t help hearing at first, and then I was so angry and ashamed, I didn’t remember that I ought to go away.’
“我不能，这对我来说太尴尬了。我一开始忍不住听了，然后我又生气又羞愧，我不记得我应该走开。

‘Just wait till I see Annie Moffat, and I’ll show you how to settle such ridiculous stuff. The idea of having ‘plans’ and being kind to Laurie because he’s rich and may marry us by-and-by! Won’t he shout when I tell him what those silly things say about us poor children?’ And Jo laughed, as if on second thoughts the thing struck her as a good joke.
“等我见到安妮·莫法特，我会告诉你如何解决这些荒谬的事情。有“计划”并善待劳里的想法，因为他很有钱，可能很快就会嫁给我们！当我告诉他那些愚蠢的事情对我们可怜的孩子的评价时，他会不会大喊大叫？”乔笑了，仿佛转念一想，这件事让她觉得这是一个很好的笑话。

‘If you tell Laurie, I’ll never forgive you! She mustn’t, must she, Mother?’ said Meg, looking distressed.
“如果你告诉劳里，我永远不会原谅你！” “妈妈，她一定不能这样吗？”梅格一脸苦恼地说。

‘No, never repeat that foolish gossip, and forget it as soon as you can,’ said Mrs. March gravely. ‘I was very unwise to let you go among people of whom I know so little, kind, I dare say, but worldly, ill-bred, and full of these vulgar ideas about young people. I am more sorry than I can express for the mischief this visit may have done you, Meg.’
“不，永远不要再重复这种愚蠢的流言蜚语，并且尽快忘记它，”马奇太太严肃地说。 “我很不明智地让你去和那些我认识甚少的人在一起，我敢说，他们很友善，但很世俗，没有教养，对年轻人充满了这些粗俗的想法。对于这次访问可能给你带来的伤害，我感到非常抱歉，梅格。

‘Don’t be sorry, I won’t let it hurt me. I’ll forget all the bad and remember only the good, for I did enjoy a great deal, and thank you very much for letting me go. I’ll not be sentimental or dissatisfied, Mother. I know I’m a silly little girl, and I’ll stay with you till I’m fit to take care of myself. But it is nice to be praised and admired, and I can’t help saying I like it,’ said Meg, looking half ashamed of the confession.
‘别抱歉，我不会让它伤害我。我会忘记所有不好的事情，只记得好的事情，因为我确实享受了很多，非常感谢你让我离开。我不会多愁善感或不满意，母亲。我知道我是一个愚蠢的小女孩，我会一直陪着你，直到我能够照顾自己。但受到赞扬和钦佩真是太好了，我情不自禁地说我喜欢这样。”梅格说道，看上去对自己的坦白感到有些羞愧。

‘That is perfectly natural, and quite harmless, if the liking does not become a passion and lead one to do foolish or unmaidenly things. Learn to know and value the praise which is worth having, and to excite the admiration of excellent people by being modest as well as pretty, Meg.’
“如果这种喜好不会变成一种激情并导致人们做出愚蠢或不成熟的事情，那是完全自然的，而且完全无害。梅格，要学会认识并珍惜值得拥有的赞美，并通过谦虚和漂亮来激发优秀人士的钦佩。

Margaret sat thinking a moment, while Jo stood with her hands behind her, looking both interested and a little perplexed, for it was a new thing to see Meg blushing and talking about admiration, lovers, and things of that sort. And Jo felt as if during that fortnight her sister had grown up amazingly, and was drifting away from her into a world where she could not follow.
玛格丽特坐在那里想了一会儿，而乔双手放在身后站着，看上去既感兴趣又有点困惑，因为看到梅格脸红着谈论钦佩、爱人之类的事情是一件新鲜事。乔觉得在那两周里，她的妹妹似乎惊人地长大了，并且正在远离她，进入一个她无法跟随的世界。

‘Mother, do you have ‘plans’, as Mrs. Moffat said?’ asked Meg bashfully.
“妈妈，你有莫法特夫人说的‘计划’吗？”梅格害羞地问。

‘Yes, my dear, I have a great many, all mothers do, but mine differ somewhat from Mrs. Moffat’s, I suspect. I will tell you some of them, for the time has come when a word may set this romantic little head and heart of yours right, on a very serious subject. You are young, Meg, but not too young to understand me, and mothers’ lips are the fittest to speak of such things to girls like you. Jo, your turn will come in time, perhaps, so listen to my ‘plans’ and help me carry them out, if they are good.’
“是的，亲爱的，我有很多，所有母亲都有，但我怀疑我的和莫法特夫人的有些不同。”我会告诉你其中的一些，因为现在已经到了，一句话就能让你这个浪漫的小头脑和心灵在一个非常严肃的话题上得到正确的认识。梅格，你很年轻，但也不算小到无法理解我，而母亲的嘴唇最适合对像你这样的女孩谈论这些事情。乔，也许很快就会轮到你了，所以听听我的‘计划’，如果计划不错的话，帮我实现它们。”

Jo went and sat on one arm of the chair, looking as if she thought they were about to join in some very solemn affair. Holding a hand of each, and watching the two young faces wistfully, Mrs. March said, in her serious yet cheery way...
乔走到椅子的一只扶手上坐下，看上去好像她认为他们即将参加一场非常庄严的活动。马奇太太握着两人的手，若有所思地看着两张年轻的脸，严肃而愉快地说道……

‘I want my daughters to be beautiful, accomplished, and good. To be admired, loved, and respected. To have a happy youth, to be well and wisely married, and to lead useful, pleasant lives, with as little care and sorrow to try them as God sees fit to send. To be loved and chosen by a good man is the best and sweetest thing which can happen to a woman, and I sincerely hope my girls may know this beautiful experience. It is natural to think of it, Meg, right to hope and wait for it, and wise to prepare for it, so that when the happy time comes, you may feel ready for the duties and worthy of the joy. My dear girls, I am ambitious for you, but not to have you make a dash in the world, marry rich men merely because they are rich, or have splendid houses, which are not homes because love is wanting. Money is a needful and precious thing, and when well used, a noble thing, but I never want you to think it is the first or only prize to strive for. I’d rather see you poor men’s wives, if you were happy, beloved, contented, than queens on thrones, without self-respect and peace.’
“我希望我的女儿们美丽、多才多艺、善良。被人钦佩、被爱戴、被尊重。拥有一个幸福的青春，拥有美好而明智的婚姻，过着有益而愉快的生活，在上帝认为合适的情况下，尽量少地关心和悲伤地尝试这些生活。被一个好男人所爱和选择是一个女人能遇到的最好、最甜蜜的事情，我真诚地希望我的女儿们能知道这种美好的经历。梅格，想到这一点是很自然的，希望和等待它是正确的，为它做好准备是明智的，这样当幸福的时刻到来时，你可能会觉得自己已经准备好承担责任，值得享受快乐。亲爱的姑娘们，我对你们有雄心壮志，但不是让你们闯天下，仅仅因为有钱就嫁给有钱人，或者拥有豪华的房子，但因为缺少爱而不是家。金钱是一种必需且珍贵的东西，如果使用得当，它是一种高贵的东西，但我绝不希望你认为它是奋斗的第一个或唯一的奖品。我宁愿看到你们是穷人的妻子，如果你们幸福、受人爱戴、心满意足，也不愿看到你们是没有自尊与平静的王位上的女王。

‘Poor girls don’t stand any chance, Belle says, unless they put themselves forward,’ sighed Meg.
“贝尔说，可怜的女孩没有任何机会，除非她们挺身而出，”梅格叹息道。

‘Then we’ll be old maids,’ said Jo stoutly. ‘right, Jo. Better be happy old maids than unhappy wives, or unmaidenly girls, running about to find husbands,’ said Mrs. March decidedly. ‘Don’t be troubled, Meg, poverty seldom daunts a sincere lover. Some of the best and most honored women I know were poor girls, but so love-worthy that they were not allowed to be old maids. Leave these things to time. Make this home happy, so that you may be fit for homes of your own, if they are offered you, and contented here if they are not. One thing remember, my girls. Mother is always ready to be your confidante, Father to be your friend, and both of hope and trust that our daughters, whether married or single, will be the pride and comfort of out lives.’
“那我们就当老处女了。”乔坚定地说。 “对了，乔。最好是做快乐的老处女，而不是做不快乐的妻子，或者是四处寻找丈夫的不成熟的女孩。”马奇夫人斩钉截铁地说。 “别担心，梅格，贫穷很少能吓倒真诚的爱人。我认识的一些最优秀、最受尊敬的女性都是贫穷的女孩，但她们非常值得爱，以至于她们不被允许当老处女。这些事情就交给时间吧。让这个家变得幸福，这样，如果有人为你提供了自己的家，你就可以适应；如果没有，你也可以在这里感到满足。记住一件事，我的女儿们。母亲随时准备成为您的红颜知己，父亲随时准备成为您的朋友，并且希望并相信我们的女儿，无论已婚还是单身，都将成为我们生活的骄傲和安慰。

‘We will, Marmee, we will!’ cried both, with all their hearts, as she bade them good night.
“我们会的，妈妈，我们会的！”当她向他们道晚安时，两人全心全意地喊道。

CHAPTER TEN
第十章

As spring came on, a new set of amusements became the fashion, and the lengthening days gave long afternoons for work and play of all sorts. The garden had to be put in order, and each sister had a quarter of the little plot to do what she liked with. Hannah used to say, ‘I’d know which each of them gardings belonged to, ef I see ‘em in Chiny,’ and so she might, for the girls’ tastes differed as much as their characters. Meg’s had roses and heliotrope, myrtle, and a little orange tree in it. Jo’s bed was never alike two seasons, for she was always trying experiments. This year it was to be a plantation of sun flowers, the seeds of which cheerful land aspiring plant were to feed Aunt Cockle-top and her family of chicks. Beth had old-fashioned fragrant flowers in her garden, sweet peas and mignonette, larkspur, pinks, pansies, and southernwood, with chickweed for the birds and catnip for the pussies. Amy had a bower in hers, rather small and earwiggy, but very pretty to look at, with honeysuckle and morning-glories hanging their colored horns and bells in graceful wreaths all over it, tall white lilies, delicate ferns, and as many brilliant, picturesque plants as would consent to blossom there.
随着春天的到来，一系列新的娱乐活动成为时尚，白天的延长为各种工作和娱乐提供了漫长的下午。花园必须整理得井井有条，每个姐妹都有四分之一的小地可以做她喜欢做的事。汉娜常常说，“如果我在中国看到它们，我就会知道它们属于哪一个，”她可能会这样，因为女孩们的品味和她们的性格一样不同。梅格的花园里有玫瑰、天芥菜、桃金娘和一棵小橙树。乔的床在两个季节里从来都不一样，因为她总是在尝试实验。今年，这里将成为一个向日葵种植园，这些向往陆地的植物的种子将用来喂养科克托普阿姨和她的小鸡一家人。贝丝的花园里种着老式的芳香花卉，有甜豌豆、木犀草、飞燕草、粉红花、三色堇和南木，还有繁缕给小鸟用，猫薄荷给小猫用。艾米的房间里有一个凉亭，相当小，耳垂，但看起来非常漂亮，金银花和牵牛花挂满了彩色的喇叭和铃铛，在优雅的花环上到处都是，高大的白色百合花，精致的蕨类植物，还有许多灿烂的，风景如画的植物愿意在那里开花。

Gardening, walks, rows on the river, and flower hunts employed the fine days, and for rainy ones, they had house diversions, some old, some new, all more or less original. One of these was the ‘P.C’, for as secret societies were the fashion, it was thought proper to have one, and as all of the girls admired Dickens, they called themselves the Pickwick Club. With a few interruptions, they had kept this up for a year, and met every Saturday evening in the big garret, on which occasions the ceremonies were as follows: Three chairs were arranged in a row before a table on which was a lamp, also four white badges, with a big ‘P.C.’ in different colors on each, and the weekly newspaper called, The Pickwick Portfolio, to which all contributed something, while Jo, who reveled in pens and ink, was the editor. At seven o’clock, the four members ascended to the clubroom, tied their badges round their heads, and took their seats with great solemnity. Meg, as the eldest, was Samuel Pickwick, Jo, being of a literary turn, Augustus Snodgrass, Beth, because she was round and rosy, Tracy Tupman, and Amy, who was always trying to do what she couldn’t, was Nathaniel Winkle. Pickwick, the president, read the paper, which was filled with original tales, poetry, local news, funny advertisements, and hints, in which they good-naturedly reminded each other of their faults and short comings. On one occasion, Mr. Pickwick put on a pair of spectacles without any glass, rapped upon the table, hemmed, and having stared hard at Mr. Snodgrass, who was tilting back in his chair, till he arranged himself properly, began to read:
天气晴朗时，他们会做园艺、散步、在河上划船、采花，而在下雨天，他们会进行一些房屋消遣，有的旧的，有的新的，或多或少都是原创的。其中之一就是“P.C”，因为秘密结社很流行，因此人们认为拥有一个是合适的，而且由于所有的女孩都崇拜狄更斯，所以她们称自己为“匹克威克俱乐部”。中间有几次中断，他们就这样维持了一年，每周六晚上都在大阁楼里聚会，每次的仪式如下：三把椅子排成一排，桌子前放着一盏灯，还有一张桌子。四个白色徽章，每个徽章上都有一个不同颜色的大“P.C”，周报名为《匹克威克组合》，所有人都对此做出了贡献，而陶醉于钢笔和墨水的乔是编辑。七点钟，四位会员登上俱乐部会议室，将徽章戴在头上，庄严地入座。梅格是长女塞缪尔·匹克威克，乔是一位文学家，奥古斯塔斯·斯诺德格拉斯，贝丝是因为她圆润而红润，特蕾西·图普曼，而艾米则是纳撒尼尔，她总是试图做她做不到的事情温克尔。总统匹克威克读了报纸，报纸上充满了原创故事、诗歌、当地新闻、有趣的广告和暗示，他们善意地互相提醒对方的缺点和缺点。有一次，匹克威克先生戴上一副没有镜片的眼镜，敲打着桌子，缝好边缘，死死地盯着靠在椅子上的斯诺德格拉斯先生，直到他调整好自己的姿势，开始读书。 :

‘THE PICKWICK PORTFOLIO&#x2019
“匹克威克组合”2019


MAY 20, 18—-
2018 年 5 月 20 日——


POET’S CORNER
诗人之角


ANNIVERSARY ODE
周年颂歌


Again we meet to celebrate
我们再次相聚庆祝

With badge and solemn rite,
带着徽章和庄严的仪式，

Our fifty-second anniversary,
我们五十二周年纪念日，

In Pickwick Hall, tonight.
今晚在匹克威克庄园。


We all are here in perfect health,
我们都健康地在这里，

None gone from our small band:
我们的小乐队没有消失：

Again we see each well-known face,
我们再次看到每一张熟悉的面孔，

And press each friendly hand.
并按下每只友好的手。


Our Pickwick, always at his post,
我们的匹克威克，永远坚守岗位，

With reverence we greet,
我们怀着崇敬的心情迎接，

As, spectacles on nose, he reads
当他鼻子上戴着眼镜时，他读到

Our well-filled weekly sheet.
我们的每周工作表填得满满的。


Although he suffers from a cold,
尽管他患有感冒，

We joy to hear him speak,
我们很高兴听到他讲话，

For words of wisdom from him fall,
因为他的智慧言语落下，

In spite of croak or squeak.
尽管有嘎嘎声或吱吱声。


Old six-foot Snodgrass looms on high,
老六英尺高的斯诺德格拉斯高高耸立，

With elephantine grace,
带着大象般的优雅，

And beams upon the company,
并照耀着公司，

With brown and jovial face.
有着棕色而快乐的脸。


Poetic fire lights up his eye,
诗意的火焰照亮了他的眼睛，

He struggles ‘gainst his lot.
他努力“争取自己的命运”。

Behold ambition on his brow,
看他额头上的野心，

And on his nose, a blot.
在他的鼻子上，有一个污点。

Next our peaceful Tupman comes,
接下来我们平静的图普曼来了，

So rosy, plump, and sweet,
那么红润、饱满、甜美，

Who chokes with laughter at the puns,
谁因双关语而笑得窒息，

And tumbles off his seat.
然后从座位上摔下来。


Prim little Winkle too is here,
古板的小温克尔也在这里，

With every hair in place,
每根头发都到位后，

A model of propriety,
礼仪之邦的典范，

Though he hates to wash his face.
虽然他讨厌洗脸。

The year is gone, we still unite
年已过去，我们依然团结

To joke and laugh and read,
开玩笑、大笑、读书，

And tread the path of literature
并踏上文学之路

That doth to glory lead.
这确实会带来荣耀。

Long may our paper prosper well,
祝我们的报纸繁荣昌盛，

Our club unbroken be,
我们的俱乐部不间断，

And coming years their blessings pour
未来的岁月里，他们的祝福倾泻而下

On the useful, gay ‘P. C.’.
关于有用的同性恋“P”。 C。'。

A. SNODGRASS
A·斯诺德格拉斯

THE MASKED MARRIAGE
假面婚姻

(A Tale Of Venice)
（威尼斯故事）

Gondola after gondola swept up to the marble steps, and left its lovely load to swell the brilliant throng that filled the stately halls of Count Adelon. Knights and ladies, elves and pages, monks and flower girls, all mingled gaily in the dance. Sweet voices and rich melody filled the air, and so with mirth and music the masquerade went on. ‘Has your Highness seen the Lady viola tonight?’ asked a gallant troubadour of the fairy queen who floated down the hall upon his arm. ‘Yes, is she not lovely, though so sad! Her dress is well chosen, too, for in a week she weds Count Antonio, whom she passionately hates.’
一艘又一艘的贡多拉驶向大理石台阶，留下可爱的货物，让阿德隆伯爵庄严的大厅里挤满了光彩夺目的人群。骑士和贵妇、精灵和侍童、僧侣和花童，所有人都欢快地参与到舞蹈中。甜美的歌声和丰富的旋律弥漫在空气中，化装舞会在欢乐和音乐中继续进行。 “殿下今晚见到维奥拉女士了吗？”一位英勇的吟游诗人问道，仙后挽着他的手臂飘过大厅。 “是的，虽然她很悲伤，但她不是很可爱吗！”她的衣服也选得很好，因为一周后她就嫁给了她非常讨厌的安东尼奥伯爵。

‘By my faith, I envy him. Yonder he comes, arrayed like a bridegroom, except the black mask. When that is off we shall see how he regards the fair maid whose heart he cannot win, though her stern father bestows her hand,’ returned the troubadour.
‘凭我的信心，我很羡慕他。他来到了那边，除了戴着黑色面具外，他的打扮就像新郎一样。当那件事结束时，我们将看看他如何看待这位美丽的少女，尽管她严厉的父亲向她伸出了援助之手，但他无法赢得她的心。”吟游诗人回答道。

‘Tis whispered that she loves the young English artist who haunts her steps, and is spurned by the old Count,’ said the lady, as they joined the dance. The revel was at its height when a priest appeared, and withdrawing the young pair to an alcove, hung with purple velvet, he motioned them to kneel. Instant silence fell on the gay throng, and not a sound, but he dash of fountains or the rustle of orange groves sleeping in the moonlight, broke the hush, as Count de Adelon spoke thus:
“有传言说，她爱上了那位萦绕在她脚下的年轻英国艺术家，却被老伯爵拒绝了。”当他们加入舞会时，这位女士说道。当一位牧师出现时，狂欢达到了高潮，他把这对年轻人带到一个挂着紫色天鹅绒的壁龛里，示意他们跪下。欢乐的人群立刻鸦雀无声，没有任何声音，但喷泉的喷水声或月光下熟睡的橘子林的沙沙声打破了寂静，阿德隆伯爵这样说道：

‘My lords and ladies, pardon the ruse by which I have gathered you here to witness the marriage of my daughter. Father, we wait your services.’ All eyes turned toward the bridal party, and a murmur of amazement went through the throng, for neither bride nor groom removed their masks. Curiosity and wonder possessed all hearts, but respect restrained all tongues till the holy rite was over. Then the eager spectators gathered round the count, demanding an explanation.
“各位大人，各位女士，请原谅我把你们聚集到这里来见证我女儿的婚礼的诡计。父亲，我们等待您的服务。”所有的目光都转向新娘队伍，人群中传出一阵惊讶的低语，因为新娘和新郎都没有摘下面具。好奇心和惊奇占据了所有人的心，但尊重抑制了所有人的舌头，直到神圣的仪式结束。然后热切的观众聚集在伯爵周围，要求作出解释。

‘Gladly would I give it if I could, but I only know that it was the whim of my timid Viola, and I yielded to it. Now, my children, let the play end. Unmask and receive my blessing.’
“如果可以的话，我很乐意给它，但我只知道这是我胆怯的维奥拉的一时兴起，我屈服了。现在，我的孩子们，让游戏结束吧。揭开面具并接受我的祝福。

But neither bent the knee, for the young bridegroom replied in a tone that startled all listeners as the mask fell, disclosing the noble face of Ferdinand Devereux, the artist lover, and leaning on the breast where now flashed the star of an English earl was the lovely Viola, radiant with joy and beauty.
但两人都没有弯曲膝盖，因为当面具落下时，年轻的新郎用一种令所有听众震惊的语气回答，露出了艺术家爱好者费迪南德·德弗罗的高贵面孔，靠在胸前，现在闪烁着英国伯爵的星星。可爱的维奥拉，容光焕发，充满欢乐和美丽。

‘My lord, you scornfully bade me claim your daughter when I could boast as high a name and vast a fortune as the Count antonio. I can do more, for even your ambitious soul cannot refuse the Earl of Devereux and De Vere, when he gives his ancient name and boundless wealth in return for the beloved hand of this fair lady, now my wife.
“大人，当我可以像安东尼奥伯爵一样拥有崇高的名声和巨大的财富时，您却轻蔑地命令我拥有您的女儿。我可以做得更多，因为即使是你雄心勃勃的灵魂也无法拒绝德弗罗伯爵和德维尔伯爵，当他献出自己古老的名字和无尽的财富来回报这位美丽女士（现在是我的妻子）的心爱之手时。

The count stood like one changed to stone, and turning to the bewildered crowd, Ferdinand added, with a gay smile of triumph, ‘To you, my gallant friends, I can only wish that your wooing may prosper as mine has done, and that you may all win as fair a bride as I have by this masked marriage.’
伯爵像变成了石头一样站着，转向困惑的人群，费迪南德带着胜利的快乐微笑补充道，“对你们，我勇敢的朋友们，我只能希望你们的追求能够像我一样成功，而且你们都可以通过这场假面婚姻赢得像我一样美丽的新娘。

S. PICKWICK
S·匹克威克

Why is the P. C. like the Tower of Babel?
为什么PC就像巴别塔？

It is full of unruly members.
它充满了不守规矩的成员。

THE HISTORY OF A SQUASH
南瓜的历史

Once upon a time a farmer planted a little seed. in his garden, and after a while it sprouted and became a vine and bore many squashes. One day in October, when they were ripe, he picked one and took it to market. A gorcerman bought and put it in his shop. That same morning, a little girl in a brown hat and blue dress, with a round face and snub nose, went and bought it for her mother. She lugged it home, cut it up, and boiled it in the big pot, mashed some of it salt and butter, for dinner. And to the rest she added a pint of milk, two eggs, four spoons of sugar, nutmeg, and some crackers, put it in a deep dish, and baked it till it was brown and nice, and next day it was eaten by a family named March.
从前，有一位农民种下了一颗小种子。在他的花园里，过了一会儿，它发芽了，变成了一棵藤蔓，结了许多南瓜。十月的一天，当它们成熟时，他摘了一棵并把它带到市场上。一个杂货店主买了它并把它放在他的店里。那天早上，一个戴着棕色帽子、穿着蓝色衣服、圆脸、塌鼻子的小女孩去给她妈妈买了它。她把它拖回家，切碎，放在大锅里煮，捣碎一些盐和黄油，作为晚餐。剩下的，她加了一品脱牛奶、两个鸡蛋、四勺糖、肉豆蔻和一些饼干，把它们放在一个深盘里，烤到它变成棕色，好看极了，第二天，它被一个人吃掉了。家庭名叫马奇。

T. TUPMAN
T·图普曼

Mr. Pickwick, Sir:I address you upon the subject of sin the sinner I mean is a man named Winkle who makes trouble in his club by laughing and sometimes won’t write his piece in this fine paper I hope you will pardon his badness and let him send a French fable because he can’t write out of his head as he has so many lessons to do and no brains in future I will try to take time by the fetlock and prepare some work which will be all commy la fo that means all right I am in haste as it is nearly school time
匹克威克先生，先生：我向您介绍的是罪孽，我指的是一个名叫温克尔的人，他在他的俱乐部里大笑，有时不肯把他的文章写在这篇精美的报纸上，我希望您能原谅他的坏行为。让他发一篇法国寓言，因为他不能凭自己的头脑写出来，因为他有很多功课要做，而且将来没有脑子。我会尽力花时间准备一些工作，这些工作都将是commy la fo这意味着好吧，我很着急，因为快到放学时间了

Yours respectably,
尊敬的您，

N. WINKLE
N·温克尔

[The above is a manly and handsome aknowledgment of past misdemeanors. If our young friend studied punctuation, it would be well.]
【以上是对过去的轻罪的男子气概和帅气的承认。如果我们的小朋友学一下标点符号就好了。]

A SAD ACCIDENT
一次悲伤的事故

On Friday last, we were startled by a violent shock in our basement, followed by cries of distress. On rushing in a body to the cellar, we discovered our beloved President prostrate upon the floor, having tripped and fallen while getting wood for domestic purposes. A perfect scene of ruin met our eyes, for in his fall Mr. Pickwick had plunged his head and shoulders into a tub of water, upset a keg of soft soap upon his manly form, and torn his garments badly. On being removed from this perilous situation, it was discovered that he had suffered no injury but several bruises, and we are happy to add, is now doing well.
上周五，我们被地下室里的剧烈震动吓了一跳，随后传来了呼救声。当我们冲进地窖时，我们发现我们敬爱的总统跪倒在地板上，他是在为家庭取木材时绊倒的。我们眼前呈现出一幅完美的毁灭景象，匹克威克先生摔倒时，他的头和肩膀浸入一盆水中，一桶软肥皂打翻了他男子气概的身体，衣服也被撕破了。当他被从这个危险的地方转移出来时，我们发现他没有受伤，只是有几处瘀伤，我们很高兴地补充说，他现在情况良好。

ED.
埃德。

THE PUBLIC BEREAVEMENT
公众的丧亲之痛

It is our painful duty to record the sudden and mysterious disappearance of our cherished friend, Mrs. Snowball Pat Paw. This lovely and beloved cat was the pet of a large circle of warm and admiring friends; for her beauty attracted all eyes, her graces and virtues endeared her to all hearts, and her loss is deeply felt by the whole community.
我们有痛苦的责任来记录我们挚爱的朋友斯诺鲍·帕特·波夫人的突然神秘失踪。这只可爱又受人喜爱的猫是一大群热情而钦佩的朋友的宠物。因为她的美丽吸引了所有人的目光，她的优雅和美德让她受到所有人的喜爱，而她的去世让整个社会深感痛心。

When last seen, she was sitting at the gate, watching the butcher’s cart, and it is feared that some villain, tempted by her charms, basely stole her. Weeks have passed, but no trace of her has been discovered, and we relinquish all hope, tie a black ribbon to her basket, set aside her dish, and weep for her as one lost to us forever.
最后一次见到时，她正坐在门口，看着屠夫的车，恐怕有小人被她的魅力所诱惑，卑鄙地偷走了她。几个星期过去了，但没有发现她的踪迹，我们放弃了所有希望，在她的篮子上系了一条黑丝带，把她的盘子放在一边，为她哭泣，就像我们永远失去了她一样。

A sympathizing friend sends the following gem:
一位富有同情心的朋友发送了以下宝石：

A LAMENT
哀叹

(FOR S. B. PAT PAW)
（致 S. B. 帕特·波）

We mourn the loss of our little pet,
我们哀悼失去我们的小宠物，

And sigh o’er her hapless fate,
并叹息她不幸的命运，

For never more by the fire she’ll sit,
她再也不会坐在火边，

Nor play by the old green gate.
也不在古老的绿色大门旁玩耍。

The little grave where her infant sleeps
她的婴儿睡觉的小坟墓

Is ‘neath the chestnut tree.
就在栗树下。

But o’er her grave we may not weep,
但在她的坟墓上我们可能不会哭泣，

We know not where it may be.
我们不知道它可能在哪里。

Her empty bed, her idle ball,
她的空床，她闲置的球，

Will never see her more;
再也见不到她了；

No gentle tap, no loving purr
没有轻柔的敲击，没有爱的呼噜声

Is heard at the parlor door.
客厅门口传来。

Another cat comes after her mice,
另一只猫追赶她的老鼠，

A cat with a dirty face,
一只脸脏兮兮的猫，

But she does not hunt as our darling did,
但她不像我们亲爱的那样打猎，

Nor play with her airy grace.
也不玩弄她那飘逸的优雅。

Her stealthy paws tread the very hall
她偷偷摸摸的爪子踏过大厅

Where Snowball used to play,
雪球以前玩的地方

But she only spits at the dogs our pet
但她只向我们的宠物狗吐口水

So gallantly drove away.
于是潇洒的开车走了。

She is useful and mild, and does her best,
她很有用，很温和，并且尽力而为，

But she is not fair to see,
但她不公平地看到，

And we cannot give her your place dear,
亲爱的，我们不能给她你的位置，

Nor worship her as we worship thee.
也不要像我们崇拜你那样崇拜她。

A.S.
作为。

ADVERTISEMENTS
广告

Miss Oranthy Bluggage, the accomplished strong-minded lecturer, will deliver her famous lecture on ‘WOMAN AND HER POSITION’ at Pickwick Hall, next Saturday Evening, after the usual performances.
奥兰西·布鲁吉小姐 (Oranthy Blugage) 是一位多才多艺、意志坚强的讲师，她将于下周六晚上在常规表演结束后在匹克威克厅发表她著名的演讲“女人和她的位置”。

A weekly meeting will be held at Kitchen place, to teach young ladies how to cook. Hannah Brown will preside, and all are invited to attend.
每周都会在厨房举行一次会议，教年轻女士如何做饭。汉娜·布朗将主持会议，并邀请所有人参加。

The DUSTPAN SOCIETY will meet on Wednesday next, and parade in the upper story of the Club House. All members to appear in uniform and shoulder their brooms at nine precisely.
DUSTPAN SOCIETY 将于下周三举行会议，并在俱乐部楼上举行游行。所有成员必须穿着制服，并在九点整时肩负扫帚。

Mrs. Beth Bouncer will open her new assortment of Doll’s Millinery next week. The latest Paris fashions have arrived, and orders are respectfully solicited.
Beth Bouncer 女士将于下周推出她的 Doll’s Millinery 新品种。最新巴黎时装已到货，敬请订购。

A new play will appear at the Barnville Theatre, in the course of a few weeks, which will surpass anything ever seen on the American stage. The Greek Slave, or Constantine the Avenger, is the name of this thrilling drama.!!!
几周后，一部新剧将在巴恩维尔剧院上演，这将超越美国舞台上所见过的任何剧目。希腊奴隶，或复仇者君士坦丁，是这部惊心动魄的戏剧的名字。！！！

HINTS
提示

If S.P. didn’t use so much soap on his hands, he wouldn’t always be late at breakfast. A.S. is requested not to whistle in the street. T.T please don’t forget Amy’s napkin. N.W. must not fret because his dress has not nine tucks.
如果 S.P. 手上没有用那么多肥皂，他吃早餐就不会总是迟到。作为。要求不要在街上吹口哨。 T.T，请不要忘记艾米的餐巾。西北不必担心，因为他的衣服没有九个褶子。

WEEKLY REPORT
每周报告

Meg—Good.
梅格——很好。

Jo—Bad.
乔——坏。

Beth—Very Good.
贝丝——非常好。

Amy—Middling.
艾米——中等。

As the President finished reading the paper (which I beg leave to assure my readers is a bona fide copy of one written by bona fide girls once upon a time), a round of applause followed, and then Mr. Snodgrass rose to make a proposition.
当主席读完这篇论文时（我请允许向我的读者保证，这篇论文是由真正的女孩们从前写的一篇文章的真实副本），随之而来的是一阵掌声，然后斯诺德格拉斯先生起身提出一项提议。

‘Mr. President and gentlemen,’ he began, assuming a parliamentary attitude and tone, ‘I wish to propose the admission of a new member—one who highly deserves the honor, would be deeply grateful for it, and would add immensely to the spirit of the club, the literary value of the paper, and be no end jolly and nice. I propose Mr. Theodore Laurence as an honorary member of the P. C. Come now, do have him.’
'先生。主席先生们，”他以议会的态度和语气开始说道，“我希望提议接纳一位新成员，他非常值得这一荣誉，他将对此深表感激，并将极大地增强我们的精神。”俱乐部，报纸的文学价值，是永无休止的欢乐和美好。我提议西奥多·劳伦斯先生担任政治委员会荣誉委员。来吧，请他吧。

Jo’s sudden change of tone made the girls laugh, but all looked rather anxious, and no one said a word as Snodgrass took his seat.
乔突然改变的语气让女孩们笑了起来，但大家都显得很焦虑，当斯诺德格拉斯落座时，没有人说一句话。

‘We’ll put it to a vote,’ said the President. ‘All in favor of this motion please to manifest it by saying, ‘Aye’.’
“我们将对其进行表决，”总统说。 “所有支持这项动议的人请表示‘同意’。”

‘Contrary-minded say, ‘No’.’
“持相反意见的人说‘不’。”

Meg and Amy were contrary-minded, and Mr. Winkle rose to say with great elegance, ‘We don’t wish any boys, they only joke and bounce about. This is a ladies’ club, and we wish to be private and proper.’
梅格和艾米的想法相反，温克尔先生起身优雅地说：“我们不希望有男孩，他们只会开玩笑和蹦蹦跳跳。”这是一个女士俱乐部，我们希望保持私密性和适当性。”

‘I’m afraid he’ll laugh at our paper, and make fun of us afterward,’ observed Pickwick, pulling the little curl on her forehead, as she always did when doubtful.
“我担心他会嘲笑我们的报纸，然后又取笑我们，”匹克威克说道，拉扯额头上的小卷发，就像她在怀疑时总是做的那样。

Up rose Snodgrass, very much in earnest. ‘Sir, I give you my word as a gentleman, Laurie won’t do anything of the sort. He likes to write, and he’ll give a tone to our contributions and keep us from being sentimental, don’t you see? We can do so little for him, and he does so much for us, I think the least we can do is to offer him a place here, and make him welcome if he comes.’
斯诺德格拉斯站了起来，语气非常认真。 “先生，作为一个绅士，我向你保证，劳里不会做这种事。他喜欢写作，他会给我们的贡献定一个基调，让我们不再感伤，你明白吗？我们能为他做的事情很少，而他为我们做了很多，我认为我们至少可以为他提供一个地方，并在他来的时候欢迎他。

This artful allusion to benefits conferred brought Tupman to his feet, looking as if he had quite made up his mind.
这种对所赋予利益的巧妙暗示让塔普曼站了起来，看起来好像他已经下定决心了。

‘Yes, we ought to do it, even if we are afraid. I say he may come, and his grandpa, too, if he likes.’
“是的，我们应该这样做，即使我们害怕。我说他可以来，如果他愿意的话，他的爷爷也可以来。

This spirited burst from Beth electrified the club, and Jo left her seat to shake hands approvingly. ‘Now then, vote again. Everybody remember it’s our Laurie, and say, ‘Aye!’’ cried Snodgrass excitedly.
贝丝的热情爆发让整个俱乐部都沸腾了，乔离开座位，赞同地握手。 「那么，现在再投票吧。」每个人都记得这是我们的劳里，并说，“是的！”斯诺德格拉斯兴奋地喊道。

‘Aye! Aye! Aye!’ replied three voices at once.
‘是啊！是啊！是啊！”三个声音同时回答。

‘Good! Bless you! Now, as there’s nothing like ‘taking time by the fetlock’, as Winkle characteristically observes, allow me to present the new member.’ And, to the dismay of the rest of the club, Jo threw open the door of the closet, and displayed Laurie sitting on a rag bag, flushed and twinkling with suppressed laughter.
'好的！祝福你！现在，正如温克尔所观察到的那样，没有什么比‘花时间抓住球节’更好的了，请允许我介绍一下新成员。”令俱乐部其他成员沮丧的是，乔打开了衣柜的门，然后照片中劳里坐在一个破布袋上，脸色通红，闪烁着压抑的笑声。

‘You rogue! You traitor! Jo, how could you?’ cried the three girls, as Snodgrass led her friend triumphantly forth, and producing both a chair and a badge, installed him in a jiffy.
‘你这个流氓！你这个叛徒！乔，你怎么能这样？”三个女孩喊道，斯诺德格拉斯得意洋洋地领着她的朋友向前走，并拿出一把椅子和一枚徽章，很快就让他安顿下来。

‘The coolness of you two rascals is amazing,’ began Mr. Pickwick, trying to get up an awful frown and only succeeding in producing an amiable smile. But the new member was equal to the occasion, and rising, with a grateful salutation to the Chair, said in the most engaging manner, ‘Mr. President and ladies—I beg pardon, gentlemen—allow me to introduce myself as Sam Weller, the very humble servant of the club.’
“你们两个无赖的冷静真是令人惊奇，”匹克威克先生开始说道，他试图皱起眉头，但最后却成功地露出了和蔼可亲的微笑。但新成员很适应这个场合，并起身向主席致以感激的敬意，并以最迷人的方式说道：“先生。”主席和女士们——请原谅，先生们——请允许我介绍自己，我是萨姆·韦勒，俱乐部非常谦虚的仆人。”

‘Good! Good!’ cried Jo, pounding with the handle of the old warming pan on which she leaned.
'好的！好极了！”乔喊道，一边用她靠着的旧暖锅的手柄敲击着。

‘My faithful friend and noble patron,’ continued Laurie with a wave of the hand, ‘who has so flatteringly presented me, is not to be blamed for the base stratagem of tonight. I planned it, and she only gave in after lots of teasing.’
“我忠实的朋友和高贵的赞助人，”劳里挥挥手继续说道，“他如此谄媚地介绍了我，今晚的卑鄙策略不应受到责备。我计划好了，但她在多次取笑后才屈服了。”

‘Come now, don’t lay it all on yourself. You know I proposed the cupboard,’ broke in Snodgrass, who was enjoying the joke amazingly.
‘来吧，别把一切都压在自己身上。你知道我提议了橱柜，”斯诺德格拉斯插话道，他非常喜欢这个笑话。

‘Never mind what she says. I’m the wretch that did it, sir,’ said the new member, with a Welleresque nod to Mr. Pickwick. ‘But on my honor, I never will do so again, and henceforth devote myself to the interest of this immortal club.’
‘别管她说什么。先生，我就是干这事的坏蛋。”新成员说道，并像韦勒式那样向匹克威克先生点了点头。 “但以我的名誉担保，我再也不会这样做了，从今以后我将全身心投入到这个不朽俱乐部的利益中。”

‘Hear! Hear!’ cried Jo, clashing the lid of the warming pan like a cymbal.
'听到！听着！”乔喊道，像铙钹一样敲打着暖锅的盖子。

‘Go on, go on!’ added Winkle and Tupman, while the President bowed benignly.
“继续，继续！”温克尔和图普曼补充道，而总统则友善地鞠了一躬。

‘I merely wish to say, that as a slight token of my gratitude for the honor done me, and as a means of promoting friendly relations between adjoining nations, I have set up a post office in the hedge in the lower corner of the garden, a fine, spacious building with padlocks on the doors and every convenience for the mails, also the females, if I may be allowed the expression. It’s the old martin house, but I’ve stopped up the door and made the roof open, so it will hold all sorts of things, and save our valuable time. Letters, manuscripts, books, and bundles can be passed in there, and as each nation has a key, it will be uncommonly nice, I fancy. Allow me to present the club key, and with many thanks for your favor, take my seat.’
“我只想说，为了表达对我所获得的荣誉的感激之情，并作为促进毗邻国家之间友好关系的一种手段，我在花园下角的树篱里设立了一个邮局这是一座精美、宽敞的建筑，门上挂着挂锁，为邮件提供了一切便利，如果允许我这么说的话，也为女性提供便利。这是老马丁的房子，但我把门堵住了，把屋顶打开了，这样它就可以容纳各种各样的东西，节省了我们宝贵的时间。信件、手稿、书籍和包裹都可以在那里传递，而且每个国家都有一把钥匙，我想这会非常好。请允许我出示俱乐部钥匙，非常感谢您的支持，请入座。

Great applause as Mr. Weller deposited a little key on the table and subsided, the warming pan clashed and waved wildly, and it was some time before order could be restored. A long discussion followed, and everyone came out surprising, for everyone did her best. So it was an unusually lively meeting, and did not adjourn till a late hour, when it broke up with three shrill cheers for the new member. No one ever regretted the admittance of Sam Weller, for a more devoted, well-behaved, and jovial member no club could have. He certainly did add ‘spirit’ to the meetings, and ‘a tone’ to the paper, for his orations convulsed his hearers and his contributions were excellent, being patriotic, classical, comical, or dramatic, but never sentimental. Jo regarded them as worthy of Bacon, Milton, or Shakespeare, and remodeled her own works with good effect, she thought.
当韦勒先生把一把小钥匙放在桌子上并平息后，热烈的掌声平息下来，暖锅剧烈地碰撞和摆动，过了一段时间才恢复秩序。接下来是长时间的讨论，每个人都感到惊讶，因为每个人都尽力了。因此，这次会议异常热闹，直到很晚才休会，在为新成员带来的三声尖锐欢呼声中结束。没有人后悔萨姆·韦勒的加入，因为他是任何俱乐部都无法拥有的一位更忠诚、更乖巧、更快乐的成员。他确实为会议增添了“精神”，为报纸增添了“基调”，因为他的演讲震撼了听众，他的贡献也很出色，爱国的、古典的、滑稽的或戏剧性的，但从不感伤。乔认为它们堪比培根、弥尔顿或莎士比亚，并改造了自己的作品，效果很好。

The P. O. was a capital little institution, and flourished wonderfully, for nearly as many queer things passed through it as through the real post office. Tragedies and cravats, poetry and pickles, garden seeds and long letters, music and gingerbread, rubbers, invitations, scoldings, and puppies. The old gentleman liked the fun, and amused himself by sending odd bundles, mysterious messages, and funny telegrams, and his gardener, who was smitten with Hannah’s charms, actually sent a love letter to Jo’s care. How they laughed when the secret came out, never dreaming how many love letters that little post office would hold in the years to come.
邮政局是一个重要的小机构，而且非常繁荣，因为几乎和真正的邮局一样，有很多奇怪的东西通过它。悲剧和领带、诗歌和泡菜、花园种子和长信、音乐和姜饼、橡皮、邀请函、责骂和小狗。老先生很喜欢这种乐趣，他通过发送奇怪的包裹、神秘的信息和有趣的电报来取乐自己，而他的园丁被汉娜的魅力迷住了，实际上给乔的照顾寄了一封情书。当这个秘密被揭晓时，他们笑得很开心，没想到在未来的岁月里，这个小邮局会容纳多少封情书。

CHAPTER ELEVEN
第十一章

‘The first of June! The Kings are off to the seashore tomorrow, and I’m free. Three months’ vacation—how I shall enjoy it!’ exclaimed Meg, coming home one warm day to find Jo laid upon the sofa in an unusual state of exhaustion, while Beth took off her dusty boots, and Amy made lemonade for the refreshment of the whole party.
‘六月一日！国王队明天要去海边，我有空。三个月的假期——我该多么享受啊！”梅格在一个温暖的日子回到家，发现乔躺在沙发上，一副异常疲惫的样子，贝丝脱掉沾满灰尘的靴子，艾米泡了柠檬水提神。整个聚会。

‘Aunt March went today, for which, oh, be joyful!’ said Jo. ‘I was mortally afraid she’d ask me to go with her. If she had, I should have felt as if I ought to do it, but Plumfield is about as gay as a churchyard, you know, and I’d rather be excused. We had a flurry getting the old lady off, and I had a fright every time she spoke to me, for I was in such a hurry to be through that I was uncommonly helpful and sweet, and feared she’d find it impossible to part from me. I quaked till she was fairly in the carriage, and had a final fright, for as it drove of, she popped out her head, saying, ‘Josyphine, won’t you—?’ I didn’t hear any more, for I basely turned and fled. I did actually run, and whisked round the corner whee I felt safe.’
“马奇姨妈今天去了，为此，哦，高兴吧！”乔说。 “我非常害怕她会邀请我和她一起去。如果她这么做了，我会觉得我应该这样做，但普拉姆菲尔德就像墓地一样快乐，你知道，我宁愿被原谅。我们匆忙地把老太太送走，每次她跟我说话时我都感到害怕，因为我是如此匆忙地完成任务，以至于我异常乐于助人且友善，并且担心她会发现无法分开从我。我一直颤抖着，直到她完全在马车里，我才感到最后的恐惧，因为当马车开走时，她探出头来，说：“乔西芬，你不会——吗？”我再也没有听到任何声音，因为我卑鄙地转身逃跑。我确实跑了，当我感到安全时，我迅速绕过了拐角。

‘Poor old Jo! She came in looking as if bears were after her,’ said Beth, as she cuddled her sister’s feet with a motherly air.
‘可怜的老乔！ “她进来时看起来就像有熊在追她一样。”贝丝一边说道，一边带着慈母般的表情拥抱着姐姐的脚。

‘Aunt March is a regular samphire, is she not?’ observed Amy, tasting her mixture critically.
“马奇婶婶是个普通的海蓬子，不是吗？”艾米评论道，一边批判地品尝着她的混合物。

‘She means vampire, not seaweed, but it doesn’t matter. It’s too warm to be particular about one’s parts of speech,’ murmured Jo.
‘她指的是吸血鬼，不是海藻，但这并不重要。 “天气太热了，不能拘泥于词性。”乔低声说道。

‘What shall you do all your vacation?’ asked Amy, changing the subject with tact.
“你整个假期都打算做什么？”艾米巧妙地转移了话题。

‘I shall lie abed late, and do nothing,’ replied Meg, from the depths of the rocking chair. ‘I’ve been routed up early all winter and had to spend my days working for other people, so now I’m going to rest and revel to my heart’s content.’
“我会躺在床上很晚，什么也不做，”梅格在摇椅深处回答道。 “整个冬天我都早早就下班了，不得不整天为别人工作，所以现在我要休息并尽情享受。”

‘No,’ said Jo, ‘that dozy way wouldn’t suit me. I’ve laid in a heap of books, and I’m going to improve my shining hours reading on my perch in the old apple tree, when I’m not having l...’
“不，”乔说，“那种昏昏欲睡的方式不适合我。”我已经躺在一堆书里了，当我没有时间的时候，我会坐在老苹果树上读书，以提高我的光辉岁月。”

‘Don’t say ‘larks!’’ implored Amy, as a return snub for the samphire’ correction.
“别说‘云雀’！”艾米恳求道，以此作为对海蓬子纠正的回击。

‘I’ll say ‘nightingales’ then, with Laurie. That’s proper and appropriate, since he’s a warbler.’
“那么我会和劳里一起说‘夜莺’。这是正确且恰当的，因为他是一只莺。

‘Don’t let us do any lessons, Beth, for a while, but play all the time and rest, as the girls mean to,’ proposed Amy.
“贝丝，暂时不要让我们上任何课，而是一直玩耍并休息，就像女孩们的意思一样，”艾米提议道。

‘Well, I will, if Mother doesn’t mind. I want to learn some new songs, and my children need fitting up for the summer. They are dreadfully out of order and really suffering for clothes.’
“好吧，如果妈妈不介意的话，我会的。”我想学一些新歌，我的孩子们需要为暑假做准备。他们的情况严重失调，而且真的很缺衣服。”

‘May we, Mother?’ asked Meg, turning to Mrs. March, who sat sewing in what they called ‘Marmee’s corner’. ‘You may try your experiment for a week and see how you like it. I think by Saturday night you will find that all play and no work is as bad as all work and no play.’
“我们可以吗，妈妈？”梅格转向马奇太太问道，马奇太太坐在他们所谓的“妈妈的角落”里做针线活。 ‘你可以尝试一周的实验，看看你是否喜欢它。我想到周六晚上你就会发现只玩不工作和只玩不玩一样糟糕。

‘Oh, dear, no! It will be delicious, I’m sure,’ said Meg complacently.
‘噢，亲爱的，不！我确信它会很美味。”梅格得意地说。

‘I now propose a toast, as my ‘friend and pardner, Sairy Gamp’, says. Fun forever, and no grubbing!’ cried Jo, rising, glass in hand, as the lemonade went round.
正如我的‘朋友兼伙伴赛里·甘普’所说，我现在提议干杯。永远充满乐趣，别再挖苦了！”当柠檬水流淌时，乔站了起来，手里拿着玻璃杯。

They all drank it merrily, and began the experiment by lounging for the rest of the day. Next morning, Meg did not appear till ten o’clock. Her solitary breakfast did not taste nice, and the room seemed lonely and untidy, for Jo had not filled the vases, Beth had not dusted, and Amy’s books lay scattered about. Nothing was neat and pleasant but ‘Marmee’s corner’, which looked as usual. And there Meg sat, to ‘rest and read’, which meant to yawn and imagine what pretty summer dresses she would get with her salary. Jo spent the morning on the river with Laurie and the afternoon reading and crying over The Wide, Wide World, up in the apple tree. Beth began by rummaging everything out of the big closet where her family resided, but getting tired before half done, she left her establishment topsy-turvy and went to her music, rejoicing that she had no dishes to wash. Amy arranged her bower, put on her best white frock, smoothed her curls, and sat down to draw under the honeysuckle, hoping someone would see and inquire who the young artist was. As no one appeared but an inquisitive daddy-longlegs, who examined her work with interest, she went to walk, got caught in a shower, and came home dripping.
他们都兴高采烈地喝了下去，然后在这一天剩下的时间里闲逛着开始了实验。第二天早上，梅格直到十点才出现。她独自吃的早餐味道不好，房间显得孤独而凌乱，因为乔没有把花瓶装满，贝丝也没有掸去灰尘，艾米的书散落在各处。除了“妈妈的角落”之外，没有什么整洁和令人愉快的，它看起来和往常一样。梅格坐在那里“休息和读书”，这意味着打哈欠并想象她用自己的薪水会得到多么漂亮的夏装。乔和劳里一起在河边度过了一个上午，下午则在苹果树上边读书边哭着读《广阔的世界》。贝丝开始从她家人居住的大壁橱里翻出所有东西，但还没完成一半就累了，她从家里乱七八糟地离开了，开始听音乐，庆幸自己没有盘子要洗。艾米布置好她的凉亭，穿上她最好的白色连衣裙，抚平卷发，然后坐下来在金银花下画画，希望有人能看到并询问这位年轻艺术家是谁。由于没有人出现，只有一位好奇的长腿爸爸饶有兴趣地审视着她的作品，她出去散步，淋了一场雨，回到家时浑身湿淋淋的。

At teatime they compared notes, and all agreed that it had been a delightful, though unusually long day. Meg, who went shopping in the afternoon and got a ‘sweet blue muslin, had discovered, after she had cut the breadths off, that it wouldn’t wash, which mishap made her slightly cross. Jo had burned the skin off her nose boating, and got a raging headache by reading too long. Beth was worried by the confusion of her closet and the difficulty of learning three or four songs at once, and Amy deeply regretted the damage done her frock, for Katy Brown’s party was to be the next day and now like Flora McFlimsey, she had ‘nothing to wear’. But these were mere trifles, and they assured their mother that the experiment was working finely. She smiled, said nothing, and with Hannah’s help did their neglected work, keeping home pleasant and the domestic machinery running smoothly. It was astonishing what a peculiar and uncomfortable state of things was produced by the ‘resting and reveling’ process. The days kept getting longer and longer, the weather was unusually variable and so were tempers, and unsettled feeling possessed everyone, and Satan found plenty of mischief for the idle hands to do. As the height of luxury, Meg put out some of her sewing, and then found time hang so heavily that she fell to snipping and spoiling her clothes in her attempts to furbish them up a‘la Moffat. Jo read till her eyes gave out and she was sick of books, got so fidgety that even good-natured Laurie had a quarrel with her, and so reduced in spirits that she desperately wished she had gone with Aunt March. Beth got on pretty well, for she was constantly forgetting that it was to be all play and no work, and fell back into her old ways now and then. But something in the air affected her, and more than once her tranquility was much disturbed, so much so that on one occasion she actually shook poor dear Joanna and told her she was a fright’. Amy fared worst of all, for her resources were small, and when her sisters left her to amuse herself, she soon found that accomplished and important little self a great burden. She didn’t like dolls, fairy tales were childish, and one couldn’t draw all the time. Tea parties didn’t amount to much neither did picnics unless very well conducted. ‘If one could have a fine house, full of nice girls, or go traveling, the summer would be delightful, but to stay at home with three selfish sisters and a grown-up boy was enough to try the patience of a Boaz,’ complained Miss Malaprop, after several days devoted to pleasure, fretting, and ennui.
下午茶时间，他们交换了意见，一致认为这是令人愉快的一天，尽管这一天异常漫长。梅格下午去购物，买了一条“甜蓝色平纹细布”，在剪掉宽度后，她发现它无法清洗，这个意外让她有点生气。乔在划船时烧伤了鼻子上的皮肤，并且由于阅读时间太长而感到剧烈头痛。贝丝担心她的衣橱混乱，而且很难同时学习三到四首歌，艾米对她的连衣裙损坏深感遗憾，因为凯蒂·布朗的派对将在第二天举行，现在像弗洛拉·麦克弗利姆西一样，她有“无衣可穿'。但这些都只是小事，他们向母亲保证实验进展顺利。她微笑着，什么也没说，在汉娜的帮助下完成了她们被忽视的工作，让家里保持愉快，家用机器运转顺利。令人惊讶的是，“休息和狂欢”的过程产生了一种奇特和不舒服的状态。日子越来越长，天气变幻莫测，脾气也变幻莫测，每个人都心神不宁，撒旦为闲着的人做了很多坏事。正当奢华之际，梅格放弃了一些缝纫工作，然后发现时间紧迫，以至于她在试图把衣服打扮得像莫法特一样时，开始剪断和弄坏自己的衣服。乔读到眼睛昏花，她厌倦了书本，变得如此烦躁，甚至好心的劳里也和她吵架，她的精神如此沮丧，以至于她非常希望自己和马奇姨妈一起去。贝丝相处得很好，因为她总是忘记这只是玩耍而不是工作，并且时不时地又回到原来的方式。 但空气中的某种东西影响了她，她的平静不止一次受到了极大的干扰，以至于有一次她真的摇晃着可怜的亲爱的乔安娜，并告诉她她是一个可怕的人。艾米的处境最糟糕，因为她的资源很少，当她的姐妹们离开她去自娱自乐时，她很快发现这个多才多艺、重要的小自我成为了巨大的负担。她不喜欢洋娃娃，童话很幼稚，也不能一直画画。茶会和野餐都没有多大意义，除非进行得很好。 “如果一个人能有一栋漂亮的房子，里面住满了漂亮的女孩，或者去旅行，夏天会很愉快，但和三个自私的姐妹和一个成年男孩呆在家里就足以考验波阿斯的耐心了。”马拉普罗普小姐抱怨道，几天后她沉浸在快乐、烦恼和倦怠之中。

No one would own that they were tired of the experiment, but by Friday night each acknowledged to herself that she was glad the week was nearly done. Hoping to impress the lesson more deeply, Mrs. March, who had a good deal of humor, resolved to finish off the trial in an appropriate manner, so she gave Hannah a holiday and let the girls enjoy the full effect of the play system.
没有人会承认他们已经厌倦了这个实验，但到了周五晚上，每个人都对自己承认，她很高兴这一周即将结束。为了让这节课留下更深刻的印象，幽默的马奇老师决定以适当的方式结束这次审判，于是她给汉娜放了个假，让女孩们充分享受游戏系统的效果。

When they got up on Saturday morning, there was no fire in the kitchen, no breakfast in the dining room, and no mother anywhere to be seen.
周六早上他们起床时，厨房里没有生火，餐厅里没有早餐，也看不到母亲的身影。

‘Mercy on us! What has happened?’ cried Jo, staring about her in dismay.
‘怜悯我们吧！发生了什么事？”乔惊愕地看着她，喊道。

Meg ran upstairs and soon came back again, looking relieved but rather bewildered, and a little ashamed.
梅格跑上楼，很快又回来了，看上去松了口气，但又有些困惑，还有点羞愧。

‘Mother isn’t sick, only very tired, and she says she is going to stay quietly in her room all day and let us do the best we can. It’s a very queer thing for her to do, she doesn’t act a bit like herself. But she says it has been a hard week for her, so we mustn’t grumble but take care of ourselves.’
“妈妈没有生病，只是很累，她说她会安静地呆在房间里一整天，让我们尽力而为。”对她来说这是一件非常奇怪的事情，她的行为一点也不像她自己。但她说这对她来说是艰难的一周，所以我们不能抱怨，要照顾好自己。”

‘That’s easy enough, and I like the idea, I’m aching for something to do, that is, some new amusement, you know,’ added Jo quickly.
“这很简单，我喜欢这个主意，我渴望找点事做，也就是说，一些新的娱乐，你知道，”乔很快补充道。

In fact it was an immense relief to them all to have a little work, and they took hold with a will, but soon realized the truth of Hannah’s saying, ‘Housekeeping ain’t no joke.’ There was plenty of food in the larder, and while Beth and Amy set the table, Meg and Jo got breakfast, wondering as they did why servants ever talked about hard work.
事实上，有一点工作对他们所有人来说都是一种巨大的解脱，他们坚定地坚持了下来，但很快就意识到汉娜所说的真理：“家政不是开玩笑。”食品储藏室里有充足的食物。当贝丝和艾米摆桌子的时候，梅格和乔吃早餐，一边想知道为什么仆人们总是谈论辛勤的工作。

‘I shall take some up to Mother, though she said we were not to think of her, for she’d take care of herself,’ said Meg, who presided and felt quite matronly behind the teapot.
“我会带一些给妈妈，尽管她说我们不要想起她，因为她会照顾自己，”梅格说，她在茶壶后面主持，感觉很有主妇的感觉。

So a tray was fitted out before anyone began, and taken up with the cook’s compliments. The boiled tea was very bitter, the omelet scorched, and the biscuits speckled with saleratus, but Mrs. March received her repast with thanks and laughed heartily over it after Jo was gone.
因此，在任何人开始之前，就已经准备好了托盘，并接受了厨师的称赞。煮的茶很苦，煎蛋卷烧焦了，饼干上撒满了小苏打粉，但马奇太太满怀感激地接受了她的晚餐，并在乔离开后开怀大笑。

‘Poor little souls, they will have a hard time, I’m afraid, but they won’t suffer, and it will do them good,’ she said, producing the more palatable viands with which she had provided herself, and disposing of the bad breakfast, so that their feelings might not be hurt, a motherly little deception for which they were grateful.
“可怜的小灵魂，我担心他们会过得很艰难，但他们不会受苦，这对他们有好处。”她一边说，一边拿出自己准备的更美味的食物，然后处理掉糟糕的早餐，这样他们的感情就不会受到伤害，这是一个母亲般的小欺骗，他们对此表示感激。

Many were the complaints below, and great the chagrin of the head cook at her failures. ‘Never mind, I’ll get the dinner and be servant, you be mistress, keep your hands nice, see company, and give orders,’ said Jo, who knew still less than Meg, about culinary affairs.
下面的抱怨很多，主厨对她的失败感到非常懊恼。 “没关系，我去拿晚饭，当仆人，你当女主人，保持双手友好，拜访同伴，下达命令，”乔说，他对烹饪的了解比梅格还少。

This obliging offer was gladly accepted, and Margaret retired to the parlor, which she hastily put in order by whisking the litter under the sofa and shutting the blinds to save the trouble of dusting. Jo, with perfect faith in her own powers and a friendly desire to make up the quarrel, immediately put a note in the office, inviting Laurie to dinner.
玛格丽特很高兴地接受了这个殷勤的提议，玛格丽特回到了客厅，她匆忙把沙发底下的垃圾清理干净，关上百叶窗，省去了除尘的麻烦。乔对自己的能力充满信心，并友好地希望弥补争吵，立即在办公室放了一张纸条，邀请劳里共进晚餐。

‘You’d better see what you have got before you think of having company,’ said Meg, when informed of the hospitable but rash act.
当梅格得知这种热情好客但鲁莽的行为时，她说：“在考虑有人陪伴之前，你最好先看看自己有什么。”

‘Oh, there’s corned beef and plenty of poatoes, and I shall get some asparagus and a lobster, ‘for a relish’, as Hannah says. We’ll have lettuce and make a salad. I don’t know how, but the book tells. I’ll have blancmange and strawberries for dessert, and coffee too, if you want to be elegant.’
“哦，有咸牛肉和大量土豆，我要买一些芦笋和龙虾，‘为了调味’，正如汉娜所说。我们要吃生菜并做沙拉。我不知道怎么做，但书上是这么说的。我要牛奶冻和草莓作为甜点，如果你想优雅的话，还有咖啡。

‘Don’t try too many messes, Jo, for you can’t make anything but gingerbread and molasses candy fit to eat. I wash my hands of the dinner party, and since you have asked Laurie on your own responsibility, you may just take care of him.’
“乔，别尝试太多乱七八糟的事情，因为除了姜饼和糖蜜糖果之外，你什么也做不了。”我不再参加晚宴了，既然你已经要求劳里承担你自己的责任，你就照顾他吧。

‘I don’t want you to do anything but be civil to him and help to the pudding. You’ll give me your advice if I get in a muddle, won’t you?’ asked Jo, rather hurt.
“我不想让你做任何事，除了对他有礼貌，帮忙做布丁。”如果我陷入困境，你会给我建议，不是吗？”乔问道，语气颇为受伤。

‘Yes, but I don’t know much, except about bread and a few trifles. You had better ask Mother’s leave before you order anything,’ returned Meg prudently.
“是的，但我知道的不多，除了面包和一些小东西。你点东西之前最好先请妈妈允许。”梅格谨慎地回答道。

‘Of course I shall. I’m not a fool.’ And Jo went off in a huff at the doubts expressed of her powers.
“我当然会的。我不是傻瓜。”乔因为对她的能力表示怀疑而生气地走了。

‘Get what you like, and don’t disturb me. I’m going out to dinner and can’t worry about things at home,’ said Mrs. March, when Jo spoke to her. ‘I never enjoyed housekeeping, and I’m going to take a vacation today, and read, write, go visiting, and amuse myself.’
“你喜欢什么就拿什么吧，别打扰我。” “我要出去吃晚饭，不用担心家里的事情。”当乔对马奇夫人说话时，她说道。 “我从来不喜欢做家务，今天我要去度假，读书、写作、参观、娱乐自己。”

The unusual spectacle of her busy mother rocking comfortably and reading early in the morning made Jo feel as if some unnatural phenomenon had occurred, for an eclipse, an earthquake, or a volcanic eruption would hardly have seemed stranger.
忙碌的母亲一大早舒适地摇晃着书本，这种不寻常的景象让乔觉得好像发生了某种不自然的现象，因为日食、地震或火山爆发并不奇怪。

‘Everything is out of sorts, somehow,’ she said to herself, going downstairs. ‘There’s Beth crying, that’s a sure sign that something is wrong in this family. If Amy is bothering, I’ll shake her.’
“不知何故，一切都不太对劲，”她一边自言自语，一边下楼。 “贝丝在哭，这是这个家庭出了问题的明确信号。如果艾米打扰了，我会摇晃她。

Feeling very much out of sorts herself, Jo hurried into the parlor to find Beth sobbing over Pip, the canary, who lay dead in the cage with his little claws pathetically extended, as if imploring the food for want of which he had died.
乔自己也感到非常不舒服，急忙走进客厅，发现贝丝正在为金丝雀皮普哭泣，皮普死在笼子里，可怜兮兮地伸出小爪子，仿佛在乞求他死去时所缺少的食物。

‘It’s all my fault, I forgot him, there isn’t a seed or a drop left. Oh, Pip! Oh, Pip! How could I be so cruel to you?’ cried Beth, taking the poor thing in her hands and trying to restore him.
‘都是我的错，我忘记了他，一粒种子、一滴水都没有留下。哦，皮普！哦，皮普！我怎么能对你这么残忍？”贝丝喊道，她把这个可怜的东西握在手里，试图把他救回来。

Jo peeped into his half-open eye, felt his little heart, and finding him stiff and cold, shook her head, and offered her domino box for a coffin.
乔窥视他半睁的眼睛，摸摸他的小心脏，发现他僵硬冰冷，摇了摇头，把她的多米诺骨牌盒子当了棺材。

‘Put him in the oven, and maybe his will get warm and revive,’ said Amy hopefully.
“把他放进烤箱，也许他会变暖并复活，”艾米满怀希望地说。

‘He’s been starved, and he shan’t be baked now he’s dead. I’ll make him a shroud, and he shall be buried in the garden, and I’ll never have another bird, never, my Pip! For I am too bad to own one,’ murmured Beth, sitting on the floor with her pet folded in her hands. ‘The funeral shall be this afternoon, and we will all go. Now, don’t cry, Bethy. It’s a pity, but nothing goes right this week, and Pip has had the worst of the experiment. Make the shroud, and lay him in my box, and after the dinner party, we’ll have a nice little funeral,’ said Jo, beginning to feel as if she had undertaken a good deal.
“他已经饿死了，现在他已经死了，不能再被烤了。”我会给他做一块裹尸布，然后把他埋在花园里，我再也不会再养一只鸟了，永远不会，我的皮普！因为我太糟糕了，不能拥有一只。”贝丝坐在地板上，手里抱着她的宠物，低声说道。 “葬礼将于今天下午举行，我们都会去。现在，别哭，贝丝。遗憾的是，但这周一切都不顺利，皮普经历了最糟糕的实验。做裹尸布，把他放在我的盒子里，晚宴结束后，我们将举行一个愉快的小型葬礼。”乔说，开始觉得自己好像做了一件好事。

Leaving the others to console Beth, she departed to the kitchen, which was in a most discouraging state of confusion. Putting on a big apron, she fell to work and got the dishes piled up ready for washing, when she discovered that the fire was out.
她留下其他人去安慰贝丝，自己去了厨房，厨房里一片混乱，令人沮丧。她系上大围裙，开始干活，把盘子堆起来准备洗，这时她发现火已经灭了。

‘Here’s a sweet prospect!’ muttered Jo, slamming the stove door open, and poking vigorously among the cinders.
“这是一个美好的前景！”乔低声说道，猛地打开炉门，用力地在煤渣中戳戳。

Having rekindled the fire, she thought she would go to market while the water heated. The walk revived her spirits, and flattering herself that she had made good bargins, she trudged home again, after buying a very young lobster, some very old asparagus, and two boxes of acid strawberries. By the time she got cleared up, the dinner arrived and the stove was red-hot. Hannah had left a pan of bread to rise, Meg had worked it up early, set it on the hearth for a second rising, and forgotten it. Meg was entertaining Sallie Gardiner in the parlor, when the door flew open and a floury, crocky, flushed, and disheveled figure appeared, demanding tartly...
重新点燃火后，她想趁水热的时候去市场。这次散步让她精神焕发，自以为讨价还价，买了一只很嫩的龙虾、一些很老的芦笋和两盒酸草莓后，她又拖着沉重的脚步回家了。等她收拾干净的时候，晚饭已经到了，炉子已经烧得通红。汉娜留下了一盘面包等待发酵，梅格很早就把它做好了，把它放在壁炉上进行第二次发酵，然后就忘记了。梅格正在客厅里招待莎莉·加德纳，这时门突然打开了，一个满身面粉、脏兮兮、满脸通红、衣衫不整的身影出现了，尖刻地要求……

‘I say, isn’t bread ‘riz’ enough when it runs over the pans?’
“我说，面包从平底锅上流下来还不够‘riz’吗？”

Sallie began to laugh, but Meg nodded and lifted her eyebrows as high as they would go, which caused the apparition to vanish and put the sour bread into the oven without further delay. Mrs. March went out, after peeping here and there to see how matters went, also saying a word of comfort to Beth, who sat making a winding sheet, while the dear departed lay in state in the domino box. A strange sense of helplessness fell upon the girls as the gray bonnet vanished round the corner, and despair seized them when a few minutes later Miss Crocker appeared, and said she’d come to dinner. Now this lady was a thin, yellow spinster, with a sharp nose and inquisitive eyes, who saw everything and gossiped about all she saw. They disliked her, but had been taught to be kind to her, simply because she was old and poor and had few friends. So Meg gave her the easy chair and tried to entertain her, while she asked questions, critsized everything, and told stories of the people whom she knew.
莎莉开始大笑，但梅格点点头，眉毛抬得最高，这使得幽灵消失了，并立即将酸面包放入烤箱。马奇夫人出去了，四处张望了一番，看看情况如何，还向贝丝说了几句安慰的话。贝丝坐在那儿做裹尸布，而亲爱的死者则安然地躺在多米诺骨牌盒子里。当灰色帽子消失在拐角处时，一种奇怪的无助感降临在女孩们身上，几分钟后，当克罗克小姐出现并说她要来吃晚饭时，绝望抓住了她们。现在这位女士是一个瘦弱的黄老处女，鼻子尖尖，眼睛好奇，她看到了一切，并八卦她所看到的一切。他们不喜欢她，但被教导要善待她，仅仅因为她又老又穷，朋友又少。于是，梅格给了她一把安乐椅，试图逗她开心，而她则提出问题，批评一切，并讲述她认识的人的故事。

Language cannot describe the anxieties, experiences, and exertions which Jo underwent that morning, and the dinner she served up became a standing joke. Fearing to ask any more advice, she did her best alone, and discovered that something more than energy and good will is necessary to make a cook. She boiled the asparagus for an hour and was grieved to find the heads cooked off and the stalks harder than ever. The bread burned black, for the salad dressing so aggravated her that she could not make it fit to ear. The lobster was a scarlet mystery to her, but she hammered and poked till it was unshelled and its meager proportions concealed in a grove of lettuce leaves. The potatoes had to be hurried, not to keep the asparagus waiting, and were not done at the last. The blancmange was lumpy, and the strawberries not as ripe as they looked, having been skilfully ‘deaconed’.
语言无法描述乔那天早上所经历的焦虑、经历和努力，她提供的晚餐成了一个老笑话。她不敢再寻求任何建议，独自尽力而为，并发现要做一名厨师，除了精力和善意之外，还需要一些东西。她把芦笋煮了一个小时，悲伤地发现芦笋头被煮熟了，茎也比以前更硬了。面包烧黑了，因为沙拉酱太让她恼火了，她无法把它放在耳朵里。龙虾对她来说是一个猩红色的谜团，但她又锤又戳，直到它被剥去壳，它那微薄的部分隐藏在一片生菜叶中。土豆得赶紧，不能让芦笋久等，最后没做好。牛奶冻是块状的，草莓也没有看起来那么成熟，只是被巧妙地“执事”了。

‘Well, they can eat beef and bread and butter, if they are hungry, only it’s mortifying to have to spend your whole morning for nothing,’ thought Jo, as she rang the bell half an hour later than usual, and stood, hot, tired, and dispirited, surveying the feast spread before Laurie, accustomed to all sorts of elegance, and Miss Crocker, whose tattling tongue would report them far and wide.
“好吧，他们可以吃牛肉、面包和黄油，如果他们饿了，只是一整个上午都白白度过，真是丢脸。”乔比平时晚了半个小时按响了门铃，站了起来，浑身热气腾腾。劳里已经习惯了各种优雅，而克罗克小姐则用喋喋不休的舌头向四面八方报告着这一切。

Poor Jo would gladly have gone under the table, as one thing after another was tasted and left, while Amy giggled, Meg looked distressed, Miss Crocker pursed her lips, and Laurie talked and laughed with all his might to give a cheerful tone to the festive scene. Jo’s one strong point was the fruit, for she had sugared it well, and had a pitcher of rich cream to eat with it. Her hot cheeks cooled a trifle, and she drew a long breath as the pretty glass plates went round, and everyone looked graciously at the little rosy islands floating in a sea of cream. Miss Crocker tasted first, made a wry face, and drank some water hastily. Jo, who refused, thinking there might not be enough, for they dwindled sadly after the picking over, glanced at Laurie, but he was eating away manfully, though there was a slight pucker about his mouth and he kept his eye fixed on his plate. Amy, who was fond of delicate fare, took a heaping spoonful, choked, hid her face in her napkin, and left the table precipitately.
可怜的乔很乐意躲到桌子底下，因为一件又一件的东西被品尝后就离开了，而艾米咯咯地笑，梅格看起来很苦恼，克罗克小姐撅起嘴唇，劳里竭尽全力地说笑，给这个房间带来愉快的语气。喜庆的场景。乔的一个强项是水果，因为她给水果加了很好的糖，并配了一罐浓郁的奶油一起吃。她滚烫的脸颊稍稍冷却了一些，当漂亮的玻璃板转动时，她长长地吸了一口气，每个人都亲切地看着漂浮在奶油色海洋中的玫瑰色小岛。克罗克小姐先尝了一口，做了个苦脸，急忙喝了点水。乔拒绝了，因为认为可能不够，因为摘完后它们可悲地减少了，她看了一眼劳里，但他正在很有男子气概地吃着，尽管他的嘴角微微皱起，眼睛一直盯着他的盘子。 。艾米喜欢吃精致的食物，她舀了一大勺，噎住了，餐巾里捂着脸，匆匆离开了餐桌。

‘Oh, what is it?’ exclaimed Jo, trembling.
“哦，这是什么？”乔颤抖着喊道。

‘Salt instead of sugar, and the cream is sour,’ replied Meg with a tragic gesture.
“用盐代替糖，奶油是酸的，”梅格用悲惨的手势回答道。

Jo uttered a groan and fell back in her chair, remembering that she had given a last hasty powdering to the berries out of one of the two boxes on the kitchen table, and had neglected to put the milk in the refrigerator. She turned scarlet and was on the verge of crying, when she met Laurie’s eyes, which would look merry in spite of his heroic efforts. The comical side of the affair suddenly struck her, and she laughed till the tears ran down her cheeks. So did everyone else, even ‘Croaker’ as the girls called the old lady, and the unfortunate dinner ended gaily, with bread and butter, olives and fun.
乔发出一声呻吟，向后靠在椅子上，想起她刚刚从厨房桌子上的两个盒子之一里匆忙给浆果撒了粉，却忘了把牛奶放进冰箱。当她看到劳里的眼睛时，她的脸涨得通红，快要哭了，尽管他做出了英勇的努力，但他的眼睛仍然看起来很快乐。这件事的滑稽一面突然袭击了她，她笑得眼泪顺着脸颊流下来。其他人也是如此，甚至包括女孩们对老太太的称呼“黄花鱼”，这顿不幸的晚餐在面包和黄油、橄榄和乐趣中愉快地结束了。

‘I haven’t strength of mind enough to clear up now, so we will sober ourselves with a funeral,’ said Jo, as they rose, and Miss Crocker made ready to go, being eager to tell the new story at another friend’s dinner table.
“我现在没有足够的精神来清理，所以我们要通过葬礼来清醒一下自己，”他们起身时乔说道，克罗克小姐准备出发，渴望在另一个朋友的晚宴上讲述这个新故事。桌子。

They did sober themselves for Beth’s sake. Laurie dug a grave under the ferns in the grove, little Pip was laid in, with many tears by his tender-hearted mistress, and covered with moss, while a wreath of violets and chickweed was hung on the stone which bore his epitaph, composed by Jo while she struggled with the dinner.
为了贝丝，他们确实清醒了。劳里在树林里的蕨类植物下挖了一个坟墓，小皮普被他温柔的女主人安葬了，上面长满了青苔，紫罗兰和繁缕的花环挂在刻有他墓志铭的石头上，组成乔在为晚餐而苦苦挣扎时。

Here lies Pip March,
这里躺着皮普·马奇，

Who died the 7th of June;
谁于 6 月 7 日去世；

Loved and lamented sore,
爱过又痛惜，

And not forgotten soon.
并且不会很快被遗忘。

At the conclusion of the ceremonies, Beth retired to her room, overcome with emotion and lobster, but there was no place of repose, for the beds were not made, and she found her grief much assuaged by beating up the pillows and putting things in order. Meg helped Jo clear away the remains of the feast, which took half the afternoon and left them so tired that they agreed to be contented with tea and toast for supper.
仪式结束后，贝丝回到了自己的房间，心情激动，吃着龙虾，但没有地方休息，因为床还没有铺好，她发现，拍打枕头，把东西放进去，悲伤就减轻了很多。命令。梅格帮助乔清理了宴会的残余物，这花了半个下午的时间，让他们太累了，所以他们同意以茶和烤面包作为晚餐就满足了。

Laurie took Amy to drive, which was a deed of charity, for the sour cream seemed to have had a bad effect upon her temper. Mrs. March came home to find the three older girls hard at work in the middle of the afternoon, and a glance at the closet gave her an idea of the success of one part of the experiment.
劳里带艾米开车，这是一种慈善行为，因为酸奶油似乎对她的脾气产生了不好的影响。下午，马奇太太回到家，发现三个大一点的女孩正在努力工作，她看了一眼衣柜，就知道实验的一部分很成功。

Before the housewives could rest, several people called, and there was a scramble to get ready to see them. Then tea must be got, errands done, and one or two necessary bits of sewing neglected until the last minute. As twilight fell, dewy and still, one by one they gathered on the porch where the June roses were budding beautifully, and each groaned or sighed as she sat down, as if tired or troubled.
家庭主妇们还没来得及休息，就有几个人打来电话，争先恐后地准备去见她们。然后必须去喝茶，完成差事，直到最后一刻才忽略一两件必要的缝纫工作。暮色降临，带着露水，寂静无声，她们一朵一朵地聚集在门廊上，那里六月玫瑰正绽放着美丽的花蕾，每个人坐下时都呻吟或叹息，仿佛疲倦或烦恼。

‘What a dreadful day this has been!’ began Jo, usually the first to speak.
“这是多么可怕的一天啊！”乔开始说道，她通常是第一个说话的。

‘It has seemed shorter than usual, but so uncomfortable,’ said Meg.
“它看起来比平常短，但很不舒服，”梅格说。

‘Not a bit like home,’ added Amy.
“一点也不像家，”艾米补充道。

‘It can’t seem so without Marmee and little Pip,’ sighed Beth, glancing with full eyes at the empty cage above her head.
“如果没有妈妈和小皮普，事情就不可能这样了。”贝丝叹了口气，睁大眼睛看着头顶上空空如也的笼子。

‘Here’s Mother, dear, and you shall have another bird tomorrow, if you want it.’
“这是妈妈，亲爱的，如果你想要的话，明天你还会再养一只鸟。”

As she spoke, Mrs. March came and took her place among them, looking as if her holiday had not been much pleasanter than theirs.
她说话的时候，马奇太太走过来，坐在他们中间，看上去她的假期并不比他们愉快多少。

‘Are you satisfied with your experiment, girls, or do you want another week of it?’ she asked, as Beth nestled up to her and the rest turned toward her with brightening faces, as flowers turn toward the sun.
“姑娘们，你们对自己的实验满意吗？还是还想再进行一周？”她问道，贝丝依偎在她身边，其他人都面带笑容地转向她，就像花朵转向太阳一样。

‘I don’t!’ cried Jo decidedly.
“我不！”乔坚决地喊道。

‘Nor I,’ echoed the others.
“我也没有，”其他人附和道。

‘You think then, that it is better to have a few duties and live a little for others, do you?’
“那么你认为，承担一些责任并为别人生活一点更好，是吗？”

‘Lounging and larking doesn’t pay,’ observed Jo, shaking her head. ‘I’m tired of it and mean to go to work at something right off.’
“闲逛和嬉闹是没有好处的，”乔摇着头说道。 “我厌倦了，打算马上去做点什么。”

‘Suppose you learn plain cooking. That’s a useful accomplishment, which no woman should be without,’ said Mrs. March, laughing inaudibly at the recollection of Jo’s dinner party, for she had met Miss Crocker and heard her account of it.
‘假设你学习简单的烹饪。这是一项有用的成就，任何女人都不应没有它。”马奇夫人回忆起乔的晚宴，无声地笑了起来，因为她见过克罗克小姐，也听过她的讲述。

‘Mother, did you go away and let everything be, just to see how we’d get on?’ cried Meg, who had had suspicions all day.
“妈妈，你离开并让一切都顺其自然，只是为了看看我们相处得怎么样吗？”一整天都心存疑虑的梅格喊道。

‘Yes, I wanted you to see how the comfort of all depends on each doing her share faithfully. While Hannah and I did your work, you got on pretty well, though I don’t think you were very happy or amiable. So I thought, as a little lesson, I would show you what happens when everyone thinks only of herself. Don’t you feel that it is pleasanter to help one another, to have daily duties which make leisure sweet when it comes, and to bear and forbear, that home may be comfortable and lovely to us all?’
“是的，我想让你看到所有人的舒适如何取决于每个人忠实地履行自己的职责。当汉娜和我做你的工作时，你相处得很好，尽管我不认为你很快乐或和蔼可亲。所以我想，作为一个小教训，我会向你们展示当每个人只考虑自己时会发生什么。难道你不觉得互相帮助、承担日常职责、让闲暇变得甜蜜、忍受和隐忍，让我们大家的家变得舒适和可爱，是更令人愉快的事吗？

‘We do, Mother we do!’ cried the girls.
“我们愿意，妈妈，我们愿意！”女孩们喊道。

‘Then let me advise you to take up your little burdens again, for though they seem heavy sometimes, they are good for us, and lighten as we learn to carry them. Work is wholesome, and there is plenty for everyone. It keeps us from ennui and mischief, is good for health and spirits, and gives us a sense of power and independence better than money or fashion.’
‘那么，让我建议你再次承担起你的小负担，因为虽然它们有时看起来很重，但它们对我们有好处，当我们学会承担它们时，它们就会减轻。工作是有益健康的，每个人都能得到很多。它让我们远离无聊和恶作剧，有益于健康和精神，比金钱或时尚更能赋予我们力量和独立感。

‘We’ll work like bees, and love it too, see if we don’t,’ said Jo. ‘I’ll learn plain cooking for my holiday task, and the dinner party I have shall be a success.’
“我们会像蜜蜂一样工作，并且也喜欢它，看看我们是否不这样做，”乔说。 “我会为我的假期任务学习简单的烹饪，我的晚宴一定会成功。”

‘I’ll make the set of shirts for father, instead of letting you do it, Marmee. I can and I will, though I’m not fond of sewing. That will be better than fussing over my own things, which are plenty nice enough as they are.’ said Meg.
“我会为父亲做一套衬衫，而不是让你来做，妈咪。我可以而且我会的，尽管我不喜欢缝纫。这比为自己的东西大惊小怪要好，因为它们本来就已经足够好了。”梅格说。

‘I’ll do my lessons every day, and not spend so much time with my music and dolls. I am a stupid thing, and ought to be studying, not playing,’ was Beth’s resolution, while Amy followed their example by heroically declaring, ‘I shall learn to make buttonholes, and attend to my parts of speech.’
“我会每天做功课，不会花太多时间听音乐和玩娃娃。我是一个愚蠢的东西，应该学习，而不是玩耍，”贝丝下定决心，而艾米则效仿他们的榜样，勇敢地宣布：“我要学习制作扣眼，并注意我的演讲部分。”

‘Very good! Then I am quite satisfied with the experiment, and fancy that we shall not have to repeat it, only don’t go to the other extreme and delve like slaves. Have regular hours for work and play, make each day both useful and pleasant, and prove that you understand the worth of time by employing it well. Then youth will be delightful, old age will bring few regrets, and life become a beautiful success, in spite of poverty.’
'非常好！然后我对这个实验很满意，我想我们不必重复它，只是不要走向另一个极端，像奴隶一样钻研。有规律的工作和娱乐时间，让每一天都变得有用和愉快，并通过充分利用时间来证明您了解时间的价值。这样，青春就会令人愉快，老年就会少有遗憾，尽管贫穷，生活也会变得美丽而成功。”

‘We’ll remember, Mother!’ And they did.
“我们会记住的，妈妈！”他们做到了。

CHAPTER TWELVE
第十二章

Beth was postmistress, for, being most at home, she could attend to it regularly, and dearly liked the daily task of unlocking the little door and distributing the mail. One July day she came in with her hands full, and went about the house leaving letters and parcels like the penny post.
贝丝是邮政局长，因为她在家里最自在，可以定期处理事务，并且非常喜欢每天打开小门和分发邮件的任务。七月的一天，她满载而归，在屋子里走来走去，留下信件和包裹，比如便士邮件。

‘Here’s your posy, Mother! Laurie never forgets that,’ she said, putting the fresh nosegay in the vase that stood in ‘Marmee’s corner’, and was kept supplied by the affectionate boy.
“这是你的花束，妈妈！劳里永远不会忘记这一点，”她一边说，一边把新鲜的花束放进“妈妈角落”的花瓶里，花瓶一直由那个深情的男孩提供。

‘Miss Meg March, one letter and a glove,’ continued Beth, delivering the articles to her sister, who sat near her mother, stitching wristbands.
“梅格·马奇小姐，一封信和一只手套，”贝丝继续说道，一边把这些物品递给坐在她母亲身边缝制腕带的姐姐。

‘Why, I left a pair over there, and here is only one,’ said Meg, looking at the gray cotton glove. ‘Didn’t you drop the other in the garden?’
“哎呀，我在那边留了一双，而这里只有一只，”梅格看着灰色的棉手套说道。 “你没有把另一个掉到花园里吗？”

‘No, I’m sure I didn’t, for there was only one in the office.’
“不，我确信我没有，因为办公室里只有一个人。”

‘I hate to have odd gloves! Never mind, the other may be found. My letter is only a translation of the German song I wanted. I think Mr. Brooke did it, for this isn’t Laurie’s writing.’
“我讨厌戴奇怪的手套！没关系，另一个可能会被发现。我的信只是我想要的德语歌曲的翻译。我认为是布鲁克先生干的，因为这不是劳里写的。

Mrs. March glanced at Meg, who was looking very pretty in her gingham morning gown, with the little curls blowing about her forehead, and very womanly, as she sat sewing at her little worktable, full of tidy white rolls, so unconscious of the thought in her mother’s mind as she sewed and sang, while her fingers flew and her thoughts were busied with girlish fancies as innocent and fresh as the pansies in her belt, that Mrs. March smiled and was satisfied.
马奇太太看了梅格一眼，她穿着格子晨礼服，看上去非常漂亮，小卷发在额头上飘扬，很有女人味，她坐在小工作台前缝纫，桌上摆满了整齐的白色面包卷，浑然不觉自己在缝纫。当她母亲一边缝纫一边唱歌时，她的手指飞舞着，她的思绪里充满了少女般的幻想，就像她腰带上的三色堇一样天真而新鲜，马奇太太微笑着并感到满意。

‘Two letters for Doctor Jo, a book, and a funny old hat, which covered the whole post office and stuck outside,’ said Beth, laughing as she went into the study where Jo sat writing.
“给乔医生的两封信，一本书，还有一顶有趣的旧帽子，它覆盖了整个邮局，一直粘在外面。”贝丝笑着走进乔坐着写字的书房，说道。

‘What a sly fellow Laurie is! I said I wished bigger hats were the fashion, because I burn my face every hot day. He said, ‘Why mind the fashion? Wear a big hat, and be comfortable!’ I said I would if I had one, and he has sent me this to try me. I’ll wear it for fun, and show him I don’t care for the fashion.’ And hanging the antique broadbrim on a bust of Plato, Jo read her letters.
‘劳里真是个狡猾的家伙！我说我希望流行更大的帽子，因为我每天都会把脸晒伤。他说：‘为什么要关注时尚？戴一顶大帽子，舒服点！”我说如果有的话我会的，他给我发了这个来试试。 “我穿它只是为了好玩，让他知道我不关心时尚。”乔把古董宽边帽挂在柏拉图的半身像上，读着她的信。

One from her mother made her cheeks glow and her eyes fill, for it said to her...
她母亲的一封信让她的脸颊容光焕发，眼睛充盈，因为它对她说……

My Dear:
亲爱的：

I write a little word to tell you with how much satisfaction I watch your efforts to control your temper. You say nothing about your trials, failures, or successes, and think, perhaps, that no one sees them but the Friend whose help you daily ask, if I may trust the well-worn cover of your guidebook. I, too, have seen them all, and heartily believe in the sincerity of your resolution, since it begins to bear fruit. Go on, dear, patiently and bravely, and always believe that no one sympathizes more tenderly with you than your loving...
我写几句话是想告诉你，我很满意地看到你努力控制自己的脾气。你对自己的考验、失败或成功只字不提，也许，除了那位每天帮助你的朋友之外，没有人看到它们，我是否可以相信你的指南的破旧封面。我也看到了这一切，并衷心相信你决心的诚意，因为它已经开始结出硕果。继续吧，亲爱的，耐心勇敢地走下去，永远相信没有人比你所爱的人更温柔地同情你……

Mother
母亲

‘That does me good! That’s worth millions of money and pecks of praise. Oh, Marmee, I do try! I will keep on trying, and not get tired, since I have you to help me.’
‘这对我有好处！这值得数百万美元和赞扬。噢，妈妈，我会努力的！我会继续努力，不会疲倦，因为有你帮助我。

Laying her head on her arms, Jo wet her little romance with a few happy tears. for she had thought that no one saw and appreciated her efforts to be good, and this assurance was doubly precious, doubly encouraging, because unexpected and from the person whose commendation she most valued. Feeling stronger than ever to meet and subdue her Apollyon, she pinned the note inside her frock, as a shield and a reminder, lest she be taken unaware, and proceeded to open her other letter, quite ready for either good or bad news. In a big, dashing hand, Laurie wrote...
乔把头枕在手臂上，用几滴幸福的泪水沾湿了她的小浪漫。因为她以为没有人看到并欣赏她为善而付出的努力，而这种保证是加倍珍贵的，加倍令人鼓舞的，因为出乎意料，而且来自她最看重的人的赞扬。她比以往任何时候都更强烈地感受到要见到并制服她的魔王，她把这张纸条别在她的连衣裙里，作为盾牌和提醒，以免她被欺骗，然后开始打开她的另一封信，做好了迎接好消息或坏消息的准备。劳里用一双潇洒的大手写下了……

Dear Jo,
亲爱的乔，

What ho!
什么嗬！

Some english girls and boys are coming to see me tomorrow and I want to have a jolly time. If it’s fine, I’m going to pitch my tent in Longmeadow, and row up the whole crew to lunch and croquet—have a fire, make messes, gypsy fashion, and all sorts of larks. They are nice people, and like such things. Brooke will go to keep us boys steady, and Kate Vaughn will play propriety for the girls. I want you all to come, can’t let Beth off at any price, and nobody shall worry her. Don’t bother about rations, I’ll see to that and everything else, only do come, there’s a good fellow!
明天一些英国女孩和男孩会来看我，我想度过一段愉快的时光。如果天气好的话，我会在朗梅多搭起帐篷，然后和全体船员一起去吃午饭、玩槌球——生火、搞乱、吉普赛时尚以及各种娱乐活动。他们都是好人，喜欢这样的事情。布鲁克会帮助我们男孩保持稳定，而凯特·沃恩则会为女孩们保持礼仪。我希望你们都来，无论如何都不能放过贝丝，没人能让她担心。别担心口粮，我会照顾这个和其他一切，只要你来，有一个好家伙！

In a tearing hurry,
急匆匆地流泪，

Yours ever, Laurie.
永远属于你，劳里。

‘Here’s richness!’ cried Jo, flying in to tell the news to Meg.
“这就是财富！”乔飞奔进来把这个消息告诉梅格，大声说道。

‘Of course we can go, Mother? It will be such a help to Laurie, for I can row, and Meg see to the lunch, and the children be useful in some way.’
“我们当然可以走了，妈妈？这对劳里来说会很有帮助，因为我可以划船，梅格负责午餐，孩子们在某种程度上也很有用。”

‘I hope the Vaughns are not fine grown-up people. Do you know anything about them, Jo?’ asked Meg.
“我希望沃恩一家不是优秀的成年人。 “乔，你了解他们吗？”梅格问。

‘Only that there are four of them. Kate is older than you, Fred and Frank (twins) about my age, and a little girl (Grace), who is nine or ten. Laurie knew them abroad, and liked the boys. I fancied, from the way he primmed up his mouth in speaking of her, that he didn’t admire Kate much.’
‘只是他们有四个人。凯特比你大，弗雷德和弗兰克（双胞胎）和我年纪相仿，还有一个小女孩（格蕾丝），九岁或十岁。劳里在国外认识他们，并且喜欢这些男孩。从他谈到她时抿嘴的样子，我猜想他不太钦佩凯特。

‘I’m so glad my French print is clean, it’s just the thing and so becoming!’ observed Meg complacently. ‘Have you anything decent, Jo?’
“我很高兴我的法式印花很干净，就是这样，而且很合适！”梅格得意地说。 “乔，你有什么像样的东西吗？”

‘Scarlet and gray boating suit, good enough for me. I shall row and tramp about, so I don’t want any starch to think of. You’ll come, Betty?’
“猩红色和灰色的划船服，对我来说已经足够了。我会划船、漫步，所以我不想再去想任何淀粉。你会来吗，贝蒂？

‘If you won’t let any boys talk to me.’
“如果你不让任何男孩跟我说话。”

‘Not a boy!’
“不是男孩！”

‘I like to please Laurie, and I’m not afraid of Mr. Brooke, he is so kind. But I don’t want to play, or sing, or say anything. I’ll work hard and not trouble anyone, and you’ll take care of me, Jo, so I’ll go.’
“我喜欢取悦劳里，而且我不怕布鲁克先生，他非常友善。”但我不想弹奏，不想唱歌，也不想说任何话。我会努力工作，不会麻烦任何人，你会照顾我，乔，所以我会去。

‘That’s my good girl. You do try to fight off your shyness, and I love you for it. Fighting faults isn’t easy, as I know, and a cheery word kind of gives a lift. Thank you, Mother,’ And Jo gave the thin cheek a grateful kiss, more precious to Mrs. March than if it had given back the rosy roundness of her youth.
‘这就是我的好姑娘。你确实在努力克服害羞，我因此爱你。据我所知，与错误作斗争并不容易，而一个愉快的词可以让人振奋。谢谢你，妈妈。”乔感激地吻了她瘦削的脸颊，对马奇太太来说，这比它让她恢复了年轻时红润圆润的脸庞还要珍贵。

‘I had a box of chocolate drops, and the picture I wanted to copy,’ said Amy, showing her mail.
“我有一盒巧克力糖，还有我想复制的照片，”艾米展示着她的邮件说道。

‘And I got a note from Mr. Laurence, asking me to come over and play to him tonight, before the lamps are lighted, and I shall go,’ added Beth, whose friendship with the old gentleman prospered finely.
“我收到了劳伦斯先生的一张纸条，要我今晚在灯亮之前过来给他演奏，我就走了。”贝丝补充道，她和这位老先生的友谊发展得很顺利。

‘Now let’s fly round, and do double duty today, so that we can play tomorrow with free minds,’ said Jo, preparing to replace her pen with a broom.
“现在让我们飞来飞去，今天做双重任务，这样明天我们就可以自由地玩耍，”乔说着，准备用扫帚代替她的笔。

When the sun peeped into the girls’ room early next morning to promise them a fine day, he saw a comical sight. Each had made such preparation for the fete as seemed necessary and proper. Meg had an extra row of little curlpapers across her forehead, Jo had copiously anointed her afflicted face with cold cream, Beth had taken Joanna to bed with her to atone for the approaching separation, and Amy had capped the climax by putting a colthespin on her nose to uplift the offending feature. It was one of the kind artists use to hold the paper on their drawing boards, therefore quite appropriate and effective for the purpose it was now being put. This funny spectacle appeared to amuse the sun, for he burst out with such radiance that Jo woke up and roused her sisters by a hearty laugh at Amy’s ornament.
第二天清晨，当阳光探入女孩们的房间，预示着她们会有美好的一天时，他看到了滑稽的景象。每个人都为这次庆祝活动做好了必要和适当的准备。梅格的额头上多了一排小卷发纸，乔在她痛苦的脸上涂满了冷霜，贝丝带着乔安娜和她一起上床，以弥补即将到来的分离，艾米在她身上放了一个胶原蛋白夹，以结束高潮。鼻子抬起有问题的特征。这是艺术家用来将纸张固定在画板上的一种类型，因此对于现在放置的目的来说非常合适且有效。这有趣的景象似乎逗乐了太阳，因为他爆发出如此的光芒，乔醒了，艾米的装饰品开怀大笑，唤醒了她的姐妹们。

Sunshine and laughter were good omens for a pleasure party, and soon a lively bustle began in both houses. Beth, who was ready first, kept reporting what went on next door, and enlivened her sisters’ toilets by frequent telegrams from the window.
阳光和欢笑是欢乐聚会的好兆头，很快两栋房子里就开始热闹起来。贝丝先做好了准备，她不停地报告隔壁发生的事情，窗外频繁传来的电报让姐妹们的厕所里热闹起来。

‘There goes the man with the tent! I see Mrs. Barker doing up the lunch in a hamper and a great basket. Now Mr. Laurence is looking up at the sky and the weathercock. I wish he would go too. There’s Laurie, looking like a sailor, nice boy! Oh, mercy me! Here’s a carriage full of people, a tall lady, a little girl, and two dreadful boys. One is lame, poor thing, he’s got a crutch. Laurie didn’t tell us that. Be quick, girls! It’s getting late. Why, there is Ned Moffat, I do declare. Meg, isn’t that the man who bowed to you one day when we were shopping?’
‘那个带着帐篷的人走了！我看到巴克夫人把午餐放在一个篮子和一个大篮子里。现在劳伦斯先生正在抬头看着天空和风向标。我希望他也去。劳里（Laurie），看起来像个水手，好孩子！哦，怜悯我吧！这是一辆满载人的马车，一个高个子女士，一个小女孩，还有两个可怕的男孩。一个是瘸子，可怜的家伙，他拄着拐杖。劳里没有告诉我们这一点。快点，女孩们！天色已晚。我确实宣布，内德·莫法特就在这儿。梅格，这不是有一天我们逛街时向你鞠躬的那个人吗？

‘So it is. How queer that he should come. I thought he was at the mountains. There is Sallie. I’m glad she got back in time. Am I all right, Jo?’ cried Meg in a flutter.
‘原来如此。他竟然来了，这真是太奇怪了。我以为他在山上。有莎莉。我很高兴她及时回来了。 “乔，我还好吗？”梅格激动地喊道。

‘A regular daisy. Hold up your dress and put your hat on straight, it looks sentimental tipped that way and will fly off at the first puff. Now then, come on!’
‘一朵普通的雏菊。举起你的裙子，把帽子戴得笔直，这样的倾斜看起来很感伤，而且会在第一口气中飞走。现在，来吧！

‘Oh, Jo, you are not going to wear that awful hat? It’s too absurd! You shall not make a guy of yourself,’ remonstrated Meg, as Jo tied down with a red ribbon the broad-brimmed, old-fashioned leghorn Laurie had sent for a joke.
‘哦，乔，你不会戴那顶可怕的帽子吗？这也太荒唐了吧！你不应该成为一个男人，”梅格抗议道，同时乔用一条红丝带系住了劳里送来的一个笑话的宽边老式来航船。

‘I just will, though, for it’s capital, so shady, light, and big. It will make fun, and I don’t mind being a guy if I’m comfortable.’ With that Jo marched straight away and the rest followed, a bright little band of sisters, all looking their best in summer suits, with happy faces under the jaunty hatbrims.
“不过，我还是会这么做，因为它是首都，如此阴凉、明亮、又大。”这会很有趣，如果我舒服的话，我不介意做个男人。”说完，乔径直走了出去，其余的人也跟着走了，一群聪明的姐妹，都穿着夏季西装，脸上挂着幸福的笑容。在活泼的帽檐下。

Laurie ran to meet and present them to his friends in the most cordial manner. The lawn was the reception room, and for several minutes a lively scene was enacted there. Meg was grateful to see that Miss Kate, though twenty, was dressed with a simplicity which American girls would do well to imitate, and who was much flattered by Mr. Ned’s assurances that he came especially to see her. Jo understood why Laurie ‘primmed up his mouth’ when speaking of Kate, for that young lady had a standoff-don’t-touch-me air, which contrasted strongly with the free and easy demeanor of the other girls. Beth took an observation of the new boys and decided that the lame one was not ‘dreadful’, but gentle and feeble, and she would be kind to him on that account. Amy found Grace a well-mannered, merry, little person, and after staring dumbly at one another for a few minutes, they suddenly became very good friends.
劳里跑去迎接，并以最亲切的方式将他们介绍给他的朋友们。草坪是会客室，几分钟内热闹非凡。梅格很高兴看到凯特小姐虽然二十岁了，但穿着朴素，美国女孩很容易模仿，而且内德先生保证他是专门来看她的，这让梅格很受宠若惊。乔明白为什么劳里一提到凯特就“板着脸”，因为这位年轻女士有一种对峙的“别碰我”的气质，这与其他女孩的洒脱气质形成鲜明对比。贝丝观察了新来的男孩，认为这个瘸子并不“可怕”，而是温柔而虚弱，因此她会善待他。艾米发现格蕾丝是一个彬彬有礼、快乐的小个子，两人呆呆地对视了几分钟后，突然成了很好的朋友。

Tents, lunch, and croquet utensils having been sent on beforehand, the party was soon embarked, and the two boats pushed off together, leaving Mr. Laurence waving his hat on the shore. Laurie and Jo rowed one boat, Mr. Brooke and Ned the other, while Fred Vaughn, the riotous twin, did his best to upset both by paddling about in a wherry like a disturbed water bug. Jo’s funny hat deserved a vote of thanks, for it was of general utility. It broke the ice in the beginning by producing a laugh, it created quite a refreshing breeze, flapping to and fro as she rowed, and would make an excellent umbrella for the whole party, if a shower came up, she said. Miss Kate decided that she was ‘odd’, but rather clever, and smiled upon her from afar.
帐篷、午餐和槌球用具都已经提前送来，一行人很快就上船了，两艘船一起出发，留下劳伦斯先生在岸上挥舞着帽子。劳里和乔划一条船，布鲁克先生和内德划另一条船，而放荡的双胞胎弗雷德·沃恩则像一只受惊的水虫一样划着小船，竭尽全力地搅扰两人。乔的滑稽帽子值得一票表示感谢，因为它具有通用性。她说，一开始它会发出笑声，打破了坚冰，在她划船时，它来回拍打着，创造出一股清新的微风，如果下雨的话，它会为整个聚会提供一把极好的雨伞。凯特小姐觉得她很“奇怪”，但却很聪明，远远地对她微笑。

Meg, in the other boat, was delightfully situated, face to face with the rowers, who both admired the prospect and feathered their oars with uncommon ‘skill and dexterity’. Mr. Brooke was a grave, silent young man, with handsome brown eyes and a pleasant voice. Meg liked his quiet manners and considered him a walking encyclopedia of useful knowledge. He never talked to her much, but he looked at her a good deal, and she felt sure that he did not regard her with aversion. Ned, being in college, of course put on all the airs which freshmen think it their bounden duty to assume. He was not very wise, but very good-natured, and altogether an excellent person to carry on a picnic. Sallie Gardiner was absorbed in keeping her white pique dress clean and chattering with the ubiquitous Fred, who kept Beth in constant terror by his pranks.
梅格坐在另一艘船上，与划手们面对面，他们都欣赏着这一前景，并以不寻常的“技巧和灵巧”来划桨。布鲁克先生是一位严肃、沉默的年轻人，有一双英俊的棕色眼睛和悦耳的声音。梅格喜欢他安静的举止，认为他是一本包含有用知识的活百科全书。他很少和她说话，但他经常看着她，她确信他并没有厌恶地看着她。内德在上大学，当然会表现出新生认为他们应有的义务。他不太聪明，但脾气很好，非常适合野餐。萨莉·加德纳（Sallie Gardiner）全神贯注地保持她的白色珠地布连衣裙干净，并与无处不在的弗雷德闲聊，而弗雷德的恶作剧让贝丝一直感到恐惧。

It was not far to Longmeadow, but the tent was pitched and the wickets down by the time they arrived. A pleasant green field, with three wide-spreading oaks in the middle and a smooth strip of turf for croquet.
离朗梅多不远，但当他们到达时，帐篷已经搭好，小门也放下了。一片宜人的绿色田野，中间长着三棵宽阔的橡树，还有一块光滑的草坪，适合打槌球。

‘Welcome to Camp Laurence!’ said the young host, as they landed with exclamations of delight.
“欢迎来到劳伦斯营！”当他们降落时，年轻的主人高兴地喊道。

‘Brooke is commander in chief, I am commissary general, the other fellows are staff officers, and you, ladies, are company. The tent is for your especial benefit and that oak is your drawing room, this is the messroom and the third is the camp kitchen. Now, let’s have a game before it gets hot, and then we’ll see about dinner.’
“布鲁克是总司令，我是军需部长，其他人是参谋，女士们，你们是连队。帐篷是为您提供特殊服务的，橡木是您的客厅，这是餐厅，第三个是营地厨房。现在，我们在天气变热之前玩一场游戏，然后我们再看看晚餐的事情。”

Frank, Beth, Amy, and Grace sat down to watch the game played by the other eight. Mr. Brooke chose Meg, Kate, and Fred. Laurie took Sallie, Jo, and Ned. The English played well, but the Americans played better, and contested every inch of the ground as strongly as if the spirit of ‘76 inspired them. Jo and Fred had several skirmishes and once narrowly escaped high words. Jo was through the last wicket and had missed the stroke, which failure ruffled her a good deal. Fred was close behind her and his turn came before hers. He gave a stroke, his ball hit the wicket, and stopped an inch on the wrong side. No one was very near, and running up to examine, he gave it a sly nudge with his toe, which put it just an inch on the right side.
弗兰克、贝丝、艾米和格蕾丝坐下来观看其他八人进行的比赛。布鲁克先生选择了梅格、凯特和弗雷德。劳里带着莎莉、乔和内德。英国队打得很好，但美国队打得更好，他们在每一寸土地上都拼尽全力，仿佛76年的精神激励着他们。乔和弗雷德发生了几次小冲突，有一次险些逃脱了恶言相向。乔穿过了最后一个三柱门，但错过了击球，这次失败让她非常恼火。弗雷德紧跟在她后面，轮到他的先于她。他击球，球击中三柱门，停在错误一侧一英寸处。附近没有人，他跑过去查看，用脚趾狡猾地推了一下它，使它离右侧只有一英寸。

‘I’m through! Now, Miss Jo, I’ll settle you, and get in first,’ cried the young gentleman, swinging his mallet for another blow.
'我完事了！现在，乔小姐，我来安置你，你先上车。”年轻的绅士喊道，挥舞着木槌再次敲击。

‘You pushed it. I saw you. It’s my turn now,’ said Jo sharply.
‘是你推的。我看见你。现在轮到我了。”乔尖锐地说。

‘Upon my word, I didn’t move it. It rolled a bit, perhaps, but that is allowed. So, stand off please, and let me have a go at the stake.’
“按照我的话，我没有动它。也许它滚动了一点，但这是允许的。所以，请站开，让我尝试一下火刑柱。”

‘We don’t cheat in America, but you can, if you choose,’ said Jo angrily.
“在美国我们不会作弊，但如果你愿意的话，你可以，”乔愤怒地说。

‘Yankees are a deal the most tricky, everybody knows. There you go!’ returned Fred, croqueting her ball far away.
“众所周知，洋基队是一笔最棘手的交易。给你！”弗雷德回答道，远远地把她的球敲碎了。

Jo opened her lips to say something rude, but checked herself in time, colored up to her forehead and stood a minute, hammering down a wicket with all her might, while Fred hit the stake and declared himself out with much exultation. She went off to get her ball, and was a long time finding it among the bushes, but she came back, looking cool and quiet, and waited her turn patiently. It took several strokes to regain the place she had lost, and when she got there, the other side had nearly won, for Kate’s ball was the last but one and lay near the stake.
乔张开嘴想说些粗鲁的话，但及时克制住了自己，她的脸色红到了额头，站了一会儿，用尽全力敲击一个三柱门，而弗雷德击中了木桩，欣喜若狂地宣布自己出局。她出去拿球，在灌木丛中花了很长时间才找到它，但她回来了，看上去冷静而安静，耐心地等待轮到她。她花了好几杆才重新夺回失去的位置，当她到达那里时，另一方几乎赢了，因为凯特的球是最后一个，而且位于木柱附近。

‘By George, it’s all up with us! Goodbye, Kate. Miss Jo owes me one, so you are finished,’ cried Fred excitedly, as they all drew near to see the finish.
‘乔治，一切都取决于我们了！再见，凯特。乔小姐欠我一个，所以你完成了，”弗雷德兴奋地喊道，他们都走近看比赛结束了。

‘Yankees have a trick of being generous to their enemies,’ said Jo, with a look that made the lad redden, ‘especially when they beat them,’ she added, as, leaving Kate’s ball untouched, she won the game by a clever stroke.
“洋基队有一个对敌人慷慨大方的伎俩，”乔说道，他的表情让小伙子脸红了，“尤其是当他们击败他们的时候，”她补充道，因为没有碰凯特的球，她以巧妙的方式赢得了比赛。中风。

Laurie threw up his hat, then remembered that it wouldn’t do to exult over the defeat of his guests, and stopped in the middle of the cheer to whisper to his friend, ‘Good for you, Jo! He did cheat, I saw him. We can’t tell him so, but he won’t do it again, take my word for it.’
劳里扔了帽子，然后想起为客人的失败而高兴是不行的，于是在欢呼声中停了下来，低声对他的朋友说：“干得好，乔！他确实作弊了，我看到了他。我们不能告诉他，但他不会再这样做了，相信我的话。”

Meg drew her aside, under pretense of pinning up a loose braid, and said approvingly, ‘It was dreadfully provoking, but you kept your temper, and I’m so glad, Jo.’
梅格把她拉到一边，假装别着一根松散的辫子，赞许地说：“这真是太刺激了，但你没发脾气，我很高兴，乔。”

‘Don’t praise me, Meg, for I could box his ears this minute. I should certainly have boiled over if I hadn’t stayed among the nettles till I got my rage under control enough to hold my tongue.. It’s simmering now, so I hope he’ll keep out of my way,’ returned Jo, biting her lips as she glowered at Fred from under her big hat.
“别夸我，梅格，我这一分钟就可以打他的耳朵。” “如果我没有一直待在荨麻丛中，直到我控制住自己的愤怒，忍住不说话，我肯定已经沸腾了。现在已经沸腾了，所以我希望他别挡我的路。”乔咬着牙回答道。她从大帽子下怒视着弗雷德，她的嘴唇。

‘Time for lunch,’ said Mr. Brooke, looking at his watch. ‘Commissary general, will you make the fire and get water, while Miss March, Miss Sallie, and I spread the table? Who can make good coffee?’
“吃午饭了。”布鲁克先生看了看手表说道。 “小卖部将军，你能生火并取水吗？马奇小姐、莎莉小姐和我把桌子铺好？”谁能煮出好咖啡？

‘Jo can,’ said Meg, glad to recommend her sister. So Jo, feeling that her late lessons in cookery were to do her honor, went to preside over the coffeepot, while the children collected dry sticks, and the boys made a fire and got water from a spring near by. Miss Kate sketched and Frank talked to Beth, who was making little mats of braided rushes to serve as plates.
“乔可以，”梅格说，很高兴推荐她的妹妹。于是，乔觉得她迟到的烹饪课是为了向她致敬，就去主持煮咖啡，而孩子们则收集干木棍，男孩们则生火并从附近的泉水里取水。凯特小姐画了草图，弗兰克和贝丝交谈，贝丝正在用灯心草编织小垫子作为盘子。

The commander in chief and his aides soon spread the tablecloth with an inviting array of eatables and drinkables, prettily decorated with green leaves. Jo announced that the coffee was ready, and everyone settled themselves to a hearty meal, for youth is seldom dyspeptic, and exercise develops wholesome appetites. A very merry lunch it was, for everything seemed fresh and funny, and frequent peals of laughter startled a venerable horse who fed near by. There was a pleasing inequality in the table, which produced many mishaps to cups and plates, acorns dropped in the milk, little black ants partook of the refreshments without being invited, and fuzzy caterpillars swung down from the tree to see what was going on. Three white-headed children peeped over the fence, and an objectionable dog barked at them from the other side of the river with all his might and main.
总司令和他的助手们很快就在桌布上铺上了一系列诱人的食物和饮料，上面装饰着漂亮的绿叶。乔宣布咖啡已经准备好了，每个人都坐下来享用丰盛的一餐，因为年轻人很少消化不良，锻炼可以培养健康的胃口。这是一顿​​非常愉快的午餐，因为一切都显得新鲜有趣，时不时传来的笑声惊动了附近吃草的一匹古老的马。桌子上有一种令人愉快的不平等，导致杯子和盘子发生许多事故，橡子掉进牛奶里，小黑蚂蚁未经邀请就分享了茶点，毛茸茸的毛毛虫从树上荡下来看看发生了什么事。三个白头发的孩子从栅栏里偷看，一只令人讨厌的狗在河对岸对他们拼命地狂吠。

‘There’s salt here,’ said Laurie, as he handed Jo a saucer of berries.
“这里有盐，”劳里一边说，一边递给乔一碟浆果。

‘Thank you, I prefer spiders,’ she replied, fishing up two unwary little ones who had gone to a creamy death. ‘How dare you remind me of that horrid dinner party, when your’s is so nice in every way?’ added Jo, as they both laughed and ate out of one plate, the china having run short.
“谢谢你，我更喜欢蜘蛛。”她回答道，一边钓起两只粗心的小蜘蛛，它们已经惨死了。 “你怎么敢让我想起那个可怕的晚宴，而你的晚宴在各方面都那么好？”乔补充道，他们俩笑着用一个盘子吃饭，瓷器已经不够了。

‘I had an uncommonly good time that day, and haven’t got over it yet. This is no credit to me, you know, I don’t do anything. It’s you and Meg and Brooke who make it all go, and I’m no end obliged to you. what shall we do when we can’t eat anymore?’ asked Laurie, feeling that his trump card had been played when lunch was over.
“那天我度过了一段非常愉快的时光，至今还没有忘记。这对我来说没有任何功劳，你知道，我什么也没做。是你、梅格和布鲁克让这一切顺利进行，我对你们感激不尽。 “我们吃不下怎么办？”劳里问道，午餐结束后，他觉得自己的王牌已经打出来了。

‘Have games till it’s cooler. I brought Authors, and I dare say Miss Kate knows something new and nice. Go and ask her. She’s company, and you ought to stay with her more.’
‘玩游戏直到天气凉爽为止。我带来了作家，我敢说凯特小姐知道一些新的好东西。去问问她吧。她是陪伴，你应该多陪陪她。

‘Aren’t you company too? I thought she’d suit Brooke, but he keeps talking to Meg, and Kate just stares at them through that ridiculous glass of hers’. I’m going, so you needn’t try to preach propriety, for you can’t do it, Jo.’
‘你们不也一起吗？我以为她会适合布鲁克，但他一直在和梅格说话，而凯特只是透过她那个可笑的玻璃盯着他们。我要走了，所以你不必试图宣扬礼节，因为你做不到，乔。

Miss Kate did know several new games, and as the girls would not, and the boys could not, eat any more, they all adjourned to the drawing room to play Rig-marole.
凯特小姐确实知道几种新游戏，由于女孩们不会，男孩们也不能再吃东西，所以他们都休会到客厅去玩《瑞格玛罗尔》。

‘One person begins a story, any nonsense you like, and tells as long as he pleases, only taking care to stop short at some exciting point, when the next takes it up and does the same. It’s very funny when well done, and makes a perfect jumble of tragical comical stuff to laugh over. Please start it, Mr. Brooke,’ said Kate, with a commanding air, which surprised Meg, who treated the tutor with as much respect as any other gentleman.
“一个人开始讲一个故事，任何你喜欢的废话，想讲多久就讲多久，只注意在某个令人兴奋的时刻停下来，当下一个人继续讲故事并做同样的事情时。如果做得好的话，它会非常有趣，并且将悲喜剧的内容完美地混在一起，让人发笑。请开始吧，布鲁克先生，”凯特带着一种居高临下的神气说道，这让梅格感到惊讶，她对待这位家庭教师和其他绅士一样尊重。

Lying on the grass at the feet of the two young ladies, Mr. Brooke obediently began the story, with the handsome brown eyes steadily fixed upon the sunshiny river.
布鲁克先生躺在两位小姐脚下的草地上，乖乖地开始讲故事，棕色的英俊眼睛定定地盯着阳光明媚的河水。

‘Once on a time, a knight went out into the world to seek his fortune, for he had nothing but his sword and his shield. He traveled a long while, nearly eight-and-twenty years, and had a hard time of it, till he came to the palace of a good old king, who had offered a reward to anyone who could tame and train a fine but unbroken colt, of which he was very fond. The knight agreed to try, and got on slowly but surely, for the colt was a gallant fellow, and soon learned to love his new master, though he was freakish and wild. Every day, when he gave his lessons to this pet of the king’s, the knight rode him through the city, and as he rode, he looked everywhere for a certain beautiful face, which he had seen many times in his dreams, but never found. One day, as he went prancing down a quiet street, he saw at the window of a ruinous castle the lovely face. He was delighted, inquired who lived in this old castle, and was told that several captive princesses were kept there by a spell, and spun all day to lay up money to buy their liberty. The knight wished intensely that he could free them, but he was poor and could only go by each day, watching for the sweet face and longing to see it out in the sunshine. At last he resolved to get into the castle and ask how he could help them. He went and knocked. The great door flew open, and he beheld . ..’
“从前，一位骑士到外面的世界去寻找他的财富，因为他除了剑和盾之外一无所有。他走了很长一段时间，将近八年二十年，过得很艰难，直到他来到一位善良的老国王的宫殿，国王悬赏任何能够驯服和训练一只优秀但完整的狗的人。小马，他非常喜欢。骑士同意尝试，并且缓慢而坚定地前进，因为这匹小马是一个勇敢的小伙子，很快就学会了爱他的新主人，尽管他古怪而狂野。每天，当他给国王的宠物上课时，骑士都会骑着他穿过城市，骑着的时候，他到处寻找一张美丽的脸，他在梦中见过很多次，但从未找到过。 。有一天，当他昂首阔步地走在一条安静的街道上时，他在一座废墟城堡的窗户上看到了一张可爱的脸。他很高兴，询问这座古老城堡里住着谁，得知有几位被俘虏的公主被咒语困在那里，整天旋转着积攒钱来赎回她们的自由。骑士迫切地希望能够释放他们，但他很穷，只能每天路过，看着那张可爱的脸，渴望在阳光下看到它。最后他决定进城堡询问如何帮助他们。他走过去敲门。大门猛地打开，他看到了。 ..’

‘A ravishingly lovely lady, who exclaimed, with a cry of rapture, ‘At last! At last!’’ continued Kate, who had read French novels, and admired the style. ‘Tis she!’ cried Count Gustave, and fell at her feet in an ecstasy of joy. ‘Oh, rise!’ she said, extending a hand of marble fairness. ‘Never! Till you tell me how I may rescue you, ‘ swore the knight, still kneeling. ‘Alas, my cruel fate condemns me to remain here till my tyrant is destroyed.’ ‘Where is the villain?’ ‘In the mauve salon. Go, brave heart, and save me from despair.’ ‘I obey, and return victorious or dead!’ With these thrilling words he rushed away, and flinging open the door of the mauve salon, was about to enter, when he received...’ ‘A stunning blow from the big Greek lexicon, which an old fellow in a black gown fired at him,’ said Ned. ‘Instantly, Sir What’s-his-name recovered himself, pitched the tyrant out of the window, and turned to join the lady, victorious, but with a bump on his brow, found the door locked, tore up the curtains, made a rope ladder, got halfway down when the ladder broke, and he went headfirst into the moat, sixty feet below. Could swim like a duck, paddled round the castle till he came to a little door guarded by two stout fellows, knocked their heads together till they cracked like a couple of nuts, then, by a trifling exertion of his prodigious strength, he smashed in the door, went up a pair of stone steps covered with dust a foot thick, toads as big as your fist, and spiders that would frighten you into hysterics, MIss March. At the top of these steps he came plump upon a sight that took his breath away and chilled his blood...’
“一位极其可爱的女士，带着狂喜的叫声惊呼道：‘终于了！终于！”凯特继续说道，她读过法国小说，很欣赏这种风格。 “就是她！”古斯塔夫伯爵喊道，欣喜若狂地跪倒在她脚边。 “哦，站起来！”她伸出一只大理石般白皙的手说道。 '绝不！直到你告诉我怎样才能救你，”仍然跪着的骑士发誓。 “唉，残酷的命运注定我要留在这里，直到我的暴君被消灭。” “坏人在哪里？” “在淡紫色的沙龙里。”去吧，勇敢的心，把我从绝望中拯救出来。”“我服从，要么胜利归来，要么死亡！”说完这些激动人心的话语，他冲了出去，猛地推开紫红色沙龙的门，正要进去，却收到了。 ……” “希腊语大词典给了他一个惊人的打击，一个穿着黑袍的老家伙向他开枪，”内德说。 “先生，他叫什么名字，立刻就回过神来，把暴君扔出窗外，转身去见那位女士，胜利了，但他的额头撞了一下，发现门锁着，撕开了窗帘，做了一根绳子。”梯子掉到一半时，梯子坏了，他一头扎进了六十英尺以下的护城河里。他能像鸭子一样游泳，绕着城堡划一圈，直到来到一扇由两个粗壮汉把守的小门前，他们把头撞在一起，直到像两颗坚果一样裂开，然后，他稍微用点力气，就撞了进去。进门，走上一段石阶，上面布满了一英尺厚的灰尘，还有拳头那么大的蟾蜍，还有会把你吓得歇斯底里的蜘蛛，马奇小姐。在这些台阶的顶端，他看到了一个令他屏住呼吸、浑身发冷的景象……”

‘A tall figure, all in white with a veil over its face and a lamp in its wasted hand,’ went on Meg. ‘It beckoned, gliding noiselessly before him down a corridor as dark and cold as any tomb. Shadowy effigies in armor stood on either side, a dead silence reigned, the lamp burned blue, and the ghostly figure ever and anon turned its face toward him, showing the glitter of awful eyes through its white veil. They reached a curtained door, behind which sounded lovely music. He sprang forward to enter, but the specter plucked him back, and waved threateningly before him a...’
“一个高大的身影，全身白色，脸上蒙着面纱，废手上拿着一盏灯，”梅格继续说道。 “它在向他招手，在他面前悄无声息地滑过一条黑暗而寒冷的走廊，就像任何坟墓一样。身着盔甲的影子雕像站在两侧，一片死寂，灯发出蓝色的光，幽灵般的身影时不时地把脸转向他，白色的面纱中露出可怕的眼睛。他们来到了一扇拉着帘子的门前，门后响起了美妙的音乐。他跳上前想进去，但幽灵把他拉了回来，并在他面前威胁地挥手……”

‘Snuffbox,’ said Jo, in a sepulchral tone, which convulsed the audience. ‘Thankee, ‘ said the knight politely, as he took a pinch and sneezed seven times so violently that his head fell off. ‘Ha! Ha!’ laughed the ghost, and having peeped through the keyhole at the princesses spinning away for dear life, the evil spirit picked up her victim and put him in a large tin box, where there were eleven other knights packed together without their heads, like sardines, who all rose and began to...’
“鼻烟盒，”乔用一种阴森的语气说道，这让观众感到震惊。 “谢谢。”骑士礼貌地说，捏了捏，打了七个喷嚏，打得头都掉下来了。 '哈！哈！”鬼魂笑道，从钥匙孔里窥视着公主们为了亲爱的生命而旋转，邪恶的灵魂把她的受害者抱起来，把他放进一个大锡盒子里，里面还有另外十一个骑士，没有头颅，挤在一起，就像沙丁鱼一样，它们都站起来并开始……”

‘Dance a hornpipe,’ cut in Fred, as Jo paused for breath, ‘and, as they danced, the rubbishy old castle turned to a man-of-war in full sail. ‘Up with the jib, reef the tops’l halliards, helm hard alee, and man the guns!’ roared the captain, as a Portuguese pirate hove in sight, with a flag black as ink flying from her foremast. ‘Go in and win, my hearties!’ says the captain, and a tremendous fight began. Of course the British beat, they always do.’
“跳一支号角舞，”乔停下来喘口气时，弗雷德插话道，“当他们跳舞时，那座破旧的城堡变成了一艘扬帆起航的战舰。 “抬起三角帆，收紧顶部帆索，用力掌舵，操纵炮！”船长咆哮道，一艘葡萄牙海盗出现在眼前，一面黑色的旗帜从她的前桅上飘扬。 “去吧，我的心肝宝贝！”队长说道，一场激烈的战斗开始了。当然，英国人击败了他们，他们总是这样做。

‘No, they don’t!’ cried Jo, aside.
“不，他们没有！”乔在一旁喊道。

‘Having taken the pirate captain prisoner, sailed slap over the schooner, whose decks were piled high with dead and whose lee scuppers ran blood, for the order had been ‘Cutlasses, and die hard!’ ‘Bosun’s mate, take a bight of the flying-jib sheet, and start this villain if he doesn’t confess his sins double quick, ‘ said the British captain. The Portuguese held his tongue like a brick, and walked the plank, while the jolly tars cheered like mad. But the sly dog dived, came up under the man-of-war, scuttled her, and down she went, with all sail set, ‘To the bottom of the sea, sea, sea’ where...’ ‘Oh, gracious! What shall I say?’ cried Sallie, as Fred ended his rigmarole, in which he had jumbled together pell-mell nautical phrases and facts out of one of his favorite books. ‘Well, they went to the bottom, and a nice mermaid welcomed them, but was much grieved on finding the box of headless knights, and kindly pickled them in brine, hoping to discover the mystery about them, for being a woman, she was curious. By-and-by a diver came down, and the mermaid said, ‘I’ll give you a box of pearls if you can take it up, ‘ for she wanted to restore the poor things to life, and couldn’t raise the heavy load herself. So the diver hoisted it up, and was much disappointed on opening it to find no pearls. He left it in a great lonely field, where it was found by a...’
“俘虏了海盗船长后，扬帆撞上了纵帆船，甲板上堆满了死者，下风排水孔里流着血，因为命令是‘弯刀，死吧！’‘水手长的大副，抓住英国船长说，如果他不尽快认罪，就开始这个恶棍。葡萄牙人像块砖头一样捂着舌头，在木板上行走，而快乐的焦油们则疯狂地欢呼。但是那只狡猾的狗潜入水中，来到战舰下面，把她凿沉，然后她就下水了，所有的帆都挂好了，“到了海底，大海，大海”，那里……”“哦，天哪！ “我该说什么呢？”弗雷德结束了他的胡言乱语，莎莉喊道，他把自己最喜欢的一本书中的航海短语和事实混杂在一起。 “好吧，他们到了海底，一个漂亮的美人鱼欢迎了他们，但她对发现无头骑士的盒子感到非常悲伤，并好心地将它们腌在盐水中，希望能发现关于他们的谜团，因为作为一个女人，她是好奇的。不久，一个潜水员下来了，美人鱼说：“如果你能把它捡起来，我就给你一盒珍珠。”因为她想让这些可怜的东西复活，却无法养活它们。自己的负担很重。于是潜水员把它举了起来，打开它却发现没有珍珠，非常失望。他把它留在了一片荒凉的田野里，在那里被一个……发现了。”

‘Little goose girl, who kept a hundred fat geese in the field,’ said Amy, when Sallie’s invention gave out. ‘The little girl was sorry for them, and asked an old woman what she should do to help them. ‘Your geese will tell you, they know everything.’ said the old woman. So she asked what she should use for new heads, since the old ones were lost, and all the geese opened their hundred mouths and screamed...’
当莎莉的发明失效时，艾米说：“小鹅女孩，她在田里养了一百只肥鹅。” “小女孩很同情他们，就问一位老妇人应该做什么来帮助他们。 “你的鹅会告诉你，它们什么都知道。”老妇人说。于是她问，既然旧的头丢了，她应该用什么来换新头，所有的鹅都张开一百张嘴尖叫……”

‘Cabbages!’’ continued Laurie promptly. ‘Just the thing, ‘ said the girl, and ran to get twelve fine ones from her garden. She put them on, the knights revived at once, thanked her, and went on their way rejoicing, never knowing the difference, for there were so many other heads like them in the world that no one thought anything of it. The knight in whom I’m interest went back to find the pretty face, and learned that the princesses had spun themselves free and all gone and married, but one. He was in a great state of mind at that, and mounting the colt, who stood by him through thick and thin, rushed to the castle to see which was left. Peeping over the hedge, he saw the queen of his affections picking flowers in her garden. ‘Will you give me a rose?’ said he. ‘You must come and get it. I can’t come to you, it isn’t proper, ‘ said she, as sweet as honey. He tried to climb over the hedge, but it seemed to grow higher and higher. Then he tried to push through, but it grew thicker and thicker, and he was in despair. So he patiently broke twig after twig till he had made a little hole through which he peeped, saying imploringly, ‘Let me in! Let me in!’ But the pretty princess did not seem to understand, for she picked her roses quietly, and left him to fight his way in. Whether he did or not, Frank will tell you.’
“卷心菜！”劳里立即继续说道。 “就是这样，”女孩说着，跑去花园里摘了十二颗漂亮的。她戴上它们，骑士们立刻苏醒过来，感谢她，然后高兴地继续赶路，从来不知道其中的区别，因为世界上还有很多像他们一样的头，所以没有人在意这件事。我感兴趣的骑士回去寻找那张漂亮的脸，得知公主们已经自由自在，全部都结婚了，只有一个。他此时心情非常好，骑上那匹与他同甘共苦的小马驹，冲向城堡，看看还剩下哪一只。他越过树篱往外看，看到他心爱的女王正在花园里摘花。 “你能给我一朵玫瑰吗？”他说。 ‘你必须来拿它。我不能来找你，这不合适，”她甜甜地说。他试图翻过树篱，但树篱似乎变得越来越高。然后他试图推过去，但它却越来越厚，他陷入了绝望。于是，他耐心地折断一根又一根的树枝，直到弄出一个小洞，他从洞里窥视，恳求地说：“让我进去吧！” “让我进去吧！”但美丽的公主似乎并不明白，因为她悄悄地摘下了玫瑰，让他自己闯进去。无论他是否进去，弗兰克都会告诉你的。

‘I can’t. I’m not playing, I never do,’ said Frank, dismayed at the sentimental predicament out of which he was to rescue the absurd couple. Beth had disappeared behind Jo, and Grace was asleep.
‘我不能。 “我不是在玩，我从不玩。”弗兰克说道，他对自己要拯救这对荒唐夫妇的情感困境感到沮丧。贝丝消失在乔身后，格蕾丝睡着了。

‘So the poor knight is to be left sticking in the hedge, is he?’ asked Mr. Brooke, still watching the river, and playing with the wild rose in his buttonhole.
“那么可怜的骑士就得被留在树篱里了，是吗？”布鲁克先生问道，他仍然注视着河水，玩弄着纽扣孔里的野玫瑰。

‘I guess the princess gave him a posy, and opened the gate after a while,’ said Laurie, smiling to himself, as he threw acorns at his tutor.
“我猜公主给了他一束花，过了一会儿就打开了大门，”劳里一边向他的导师扔橡子，一边自言自语地微笑着。

‘What a piece of nonsense we have made! With practice we might do something quite clever. Do you know Truth?’
‘我们犯了多么荒唐的事啊！通过练习，我们可能会做出一些非常聪明的事情。你知道真理吗？

‘I hope so,’ said Meg soberly.
“我希望如此，”梅格严肃地说。

‘The game, I mean?’
“我是说游戏？”

‘what is it?’ said Fred.
“那是什么？”弗雷德说。

‘Why, you pile up your hands, choose a number, and draw out in turn, and the person who draws at the number has to answer truly any question put by the rest. It’s great fun.’
‘嘿，你们把双手举起来，选择一个数字，然后依次抽奖，抽到数字的人必须真实地回答其他人提出的任何问题。很有趣。'

‘Let’s try it,’ said Jo, who liked new experiments.
“我们试试吧，”喜欢新实验的乔说。

Miss Kate and Mr. Booke, Meg, and Ned declined, but Fred, Sallie, Jo, and Laurie piled and drew, and the lot fell to Laurie.
凯特小姐、布克先生、梅格和内德拒绝了，但弗雷德、莎莉、乔和劳里不断抽牌，最后抽签落到了劳里身上。

‘Who are your heroes?’ asked Jo.
“谁是你心目中的英雄？”乔问道。

‘Grandfather and Napoleon.’
“祖父和拿破仑。”

‘Which lady here do you think prettiest?’ said Sallie.
“你认为这里哪位女士最漂亮？”莎莉说。

‘Margaret.’
'玛格丽特。'

‘Which do you like best?’ from Fred.
弗雷德问：“你最喜欢哪一个？”

‘Jo, of course.’ ‘What silly questions you ask!’ And Jo gave a disdainful shrug as the rest laughed at Laurie’s matter-of-fact tone.
“乔，当然。”“你问的问题多傻啊！”乔轻蔑地耸耸肩，其他人则嘲笑劳里实事求是的语气。

‘Try again. Truth isn’t a bad game,’ said Fred.
'再试一次。真相并不是一个糟糕的游戏，”弗雷德说。

‘It’s a very good one for you,’ retorted Jo in a low voice. Her turn came next.
“这对你来说非常好。”乔低声反驳道。接下来轮到她了。

‘What is your greatest fault?’ asked Fred, by way of testing in her the virtue he lacked himself.
“你最大的缺点是什么？”弗雷德问道，以此来测试她身上他自己所缺乏的美德。

‘A quick temper.’
“脾气急躁。”

‘What do you most wish for?’ said Laurie.
“你最想要什么？”劳里说。

‘A pair of boot lacings,’ returned Jo, guessing and defeating his purpose.
“一双靴带。”乔回答道，猜测并挫败了他的目的。

‘Not a true answer. You must say what you really do want most.’
‘这不是一个真正的答案。你必须说出你真正最想要的是什么。

‘Genius. Don’t you wish you could give it to me, Laurie?’ And she slyly smiled in his disappointed face.
'天才。你难道不想把它给我吗，劳里？”她在他失望的脸上狡猾地微笑。

‘What virtues do you most admire in a man?’ asked Sallie.
“你最欣赏男人的哪些美德？”莎莉问道。

‘Courage and honesty.’
“勇气和诚实。”

‘Now my turn,’ said Fred, as his hand came last.
“现在轮到我了，”弗雷德最后伸出手时说道。

‘Let’s give it to him,’ whispered Laurie to Jo, who nodded and asked at once...
“我们把它给他吧，”劳里对乔低声说道，乔立即点点头问道……

‘Didn’t you cheat at croquet?’
“你在槌球比赛中没有作弊吗？”

‘Well, yes, a little bit.’
“嗯，是的，有一点。”

‘Good! Didn’t you take your story out of THE SEA LION?’ said Laurie.
'好的！你的故事不是从《海狮》中摘录的吗？”劳里说。

‘Rather.’
'相当。'

‘Don’t you think the English nation perfect in every respect?’ asked Sallie.
“你不认为英国民族在各方面都是完美的吗？”萨莉问。

‘I should be ashamed of myself if I didn’t.’
“如果我不这样做，我应该为自己感到羞耻。”

‘He’s a true John Bull. Now, Miss Sallie, you shall have a chance without waiting to draw. I’ll harrrow up your feelings first by asking if you don’t think you are something of a flirt,’ said Laurie, as Jo nodded to Fred as a sign that peace was declared.
“他是真正的约翰牛。现在，莎莉小姐，你不用等待抽奖就有机会了。 “我会先问你是否认为自己是一个调情的人，以此来激怒你的情绪，”劳里说，乔向弗雷德点了点头，表示和平已经宣告结束。

‘You impertinent boy! Of course I’m not,’ exclaimed Sallie, with an air that proved the contrary.
‘你这个无礼的小子！我当然不是，”莎莉大声说道，她的神情恰恰相反。

‘What do you hate most?’ asked Fred.
“你最讨厌什么？”弗雷德问。

‘Spiders and rice pudding.’
“蜘蛛和米饭布丁。”

‘What do you like best?’ asked Jo.
“你最喜欢什么？”乔问。

‘Dancing and French gloves.’
“跳舞和法国手套。”

‘Well, I think Truth is a very silly play. Let’s have a sensible game of Authors to refresh our minds,’ proposed Jo.
“嗯，我认为《真理》是一部非常愚蠢的戏剧。让我们玩一场明智的作家游戏来刷新我们的思维吧。”乔提议道。

Ned, frank, and the little girls joined in this, and while it went on, the three elders sat apart, talking. Miss Kate took out her sketch again, and Margaret watched her, while Mr. Brooke lay on the grass with a book, which he did not read.
奈德、弗兰克和小女孩们也加入了进来，而在这一切进行的过程中，三位长辈则分开坐着聊天。凯特小姐又拿出了她的素描，玛格丽特看着她，而布鲁克先生拿着一本书躺在草地上，但他没有读。

‘How beautifully you do it! I wish I could draw,’ said Meg, with mingled admiration and regret in her voice.
‘你做得多么漂亮啊！ “我希望我会画画。”梅格的声音中夹杂着钦佩和遗憾。

‘Why don’t you learn? I should think you had taste and talent for it,’ replied Miss Kate graciously.
‘你为什么不学习？我认为你有这方面的品味和天赋。”凯特小姐和蔼地回答道。

‘I haven’t time.’
“我没时间。”

‘Your mamma prefers other accomplishments, I fancy. So did mine, but I proved to her that I had talent by taking a few lessons privately, and then she was quite willing I should go on. Can’t you do the same with your governess?’
“我想，你妈妈更喜欢其他成就。”我的也是如此，但我通过私下上几堂课向她证明了我的天赋，然后她很愿意我继续下去。你不能对你的家庭教师做同样的事情吗？

‘I have none.’
'我没有。'

‘I forgot young ladies in America go to school more than with us. Very fine schools they are, too, Papa says. You go to a private one, I suppose?’
“我忘了美国的年轻女士比我们上学的多。爸爸说，它们也是非常好的学校。我想你会去私人的吧？

‘I don’t go at all. I am a governess myself.’
‘我根本不去。我自己也是一名家庭教师。

‘Oh. indeed!’ said Miss Kate, but she might as well have said, ‘Dear me, how dreadful!’ for her tone implied it, and something in her face made Meg color, and wish she had not been so frank.
'哦。确实如此！”凯特小姐说，但她也可能会说，“天哪，太可怕了！”因为她的语气暗示了这一点，而她脸上的某种东西让梅格脸色发红，希望她没有那么坦白。

Mr. Brooke looked up and said quickly, Young ladies in America love independence as much as their ancestors did, and are admired and respected for supporting themselves.’
布鲁克先生抬起头，连忙说道：“美国的年轻女士们和她们的祖先一样热爱独立，靠自力更生而受到钦佩和尊重。”

‘Oh, yes, of course it’s very nice and proper in them to do so. We have many most respectable and worthy young women who do the same and are employed by the nobility, because, being the daughters of gentlemen, they are both well bred and accomplished, you know,’ said Miss Kate in a patronizing tone that hurt Meg’s pride, and made her work seem not only more distasteful, but degrading.
“哦，是的，他们这样做当然很好，也很恰当。我们有许多最值得尊敬和值得尊敬的年轻女性，她们也这样做，并受雇于贵族，因为，作为绅士的女儿，她们都受过良好的教养，也有成就，你知道，”凯特小姐用一种居高临下的语气说道，这伤害了梅格的心。骄傲，使她的工作不仅显得更令人厌恶，而且有辱人格。

‘Did the German song suit, Miss March?’ inquired Mr. Brooke, breaking an awkward pause.
“马奇小姐，这首德国歌曲适合吗？”布鲁克先生打破了尴尬的停顿，问道。

‘Oh, yes! It was very sweet, and I’m much obliged to whoever translated it for me.’ And Meg’s downcast face brightened as she spoke.
'哦是的！非常甜蜜，我非常感谢为我翻译的人。”说话时，梅格低沉的脸变得明亮起来。

‘Don’t you read German?’ asked Miss Kate with a look of surprise.
“你不会读德语吗？”凯特小姐一脸惊讶地问道。

‘Not very well. My father, who taught me, is away, and I don’t get on very fast alone, for I’ve no one to correct my pronunciation.’
'不是很好。教我的父亲不在，我一个人相处得不太快，因为没有人纠正我的发音。

‘Try a little now. Here is Schiller’s Mary Stuart and a tutor who loves to teach.’ And Mr. Brooke laid his book on her lap with an inviting smile.
‘现在就尝试一下吧。这是席勒笔下的玛丽·斯图尔特和一位热爱教学的家庭教师。”布鲁克先生带着诱人的微笑将书放在她的腿上。

‘It’s so hard I’m afraid to try,’ said Meg, grateful, but bashful in the presence of the accomplished young lady beside her.
“这太难了，我不敢尝试，”梅格感激地说，但面对身边这位多才多艺的年轻女士，她感到害羞。

‘I’ll read a bit to encourage you.’ And Miss Kate read one of the most beautiful passages in a perfectly correct but perfectly expressionless manner.
“我会读一点来鼓励你。”凯特小姐以一种完全正确但完全面无表情的方式读了最美丽的段落之一。

Mr. Brooke made no comment as she returned the book to Meg, who said innocently, ‘I thought it was poetry.’ ‘Some of it is. Try this passage.’
布鲁克先生把书还给梅格时没有发表任何评论，梅格天真地说道：“我以为这是诗。”试试这段话。

There was a queer smile about Mr. Brooke’s mouth as he opened at poor Mary’s lament.
当布鲁克先生因可怜的玛丽的哀叹而张开嘴时，他的嘴里挂着一丝奇怪的微笑。

Meg obediently following the long grass-blade which her new tutor used to point with, read slowly and timidly, unconsciously making poetry of the hard words by the soft intonation of her musical voice. Down the page went the green guide, and presently, forgetting her listener in the beauty of the sad scene, Meg read as if alone, giving a little touch of tragedy to the words of the unhappy queen. If she had seen the brown eyes then, she would have stopped short, but she never looked up, and the lesson was not spoiled for her.
梅格顺从地顺着新导师指着的那根长草叶，缓慢而胆怯地读着，不自觉地用她轻柔的语调将艰涩的单词变成了诗。绿色指南翻到了一页，不久，梅格在美丽的悲伤场景中忘记了她的听众，仿佛独自一人读着，给不幸的王后的话增添了一点悲剧色彩。如果她当时看到那双棕色的眼睛，她一定会停下来，但她没有抬头，这堂课并没有破坏她的心情。

‘Very well indeed!’ said Mr. Brooke, as she paused, quite ignoring her many mistakes, and looking as if he did indeed love to teach.
“确实很好！”布鲁克先生说，她停了下来，完全忽略了她的许多错误，看起来好像他确实喜欢教书。

Miss Kate put up her glass, and, having taken a survey of the little tableau before her, shut her sketch book, saying with condescension, ‘You’ve a nice accent and in time will be a clever reader. I advise you to learn, for German is a valuable accomplishment to teachers. I must look after Grace, she is romping.’ And Miss Kate strolled away, adding to herself with a shrug, ‘I didn’t come to chaperone a governess, though she is young and pretty. What odd people these Yankees are. I’m afraid Laurie will be quite spoiled among them.’
凯特小姐举起酒杯，审视了一下面前的小场景，合上素描本，居高临下地说：“你的口音很好，迟早会成为一个聪明的读者。”我建议你学习，因为德语对老师来说是一项宝贵的成就。我必须照顾格蕾丝，她正在嬉戏。”凯特小姐漫步走开，耸耸肩补充道：“我不是来陪伴家庭教师的，尽管她年轻漂亮。这些洋基队是多么奇怪的人啊。我担心劳里在他们中间会被宠坏的。

‘I forgot that English people rather turn up their noses at governesses and don’t treat them as we do,’ said Meg, looking after the retreating figure with an annoyed expression.
“我忘记了，英国人对家庭女教师很嗤之以鼻，不像我们那样对待她们，”梅格说道，带着恼怒的表情看着那个远去的身影。

‘Tutors also have rather a hard time of it there, as I know to my sorrow. There’s no place like America for us workers, Miss Margaret.’ And Mr. Brooke looked so contented and cheerful that Meg was ashamed to lament her hard lot.
“我很遗憾地知道，那里的导师们也过得很艰难。”玛格丽特小姐，对于我们这些工人来说，没有一个地方能像美国那样。”布鲁克先生看起来那么满足和快乐，梅格都羞于感叹自己的艰辛命运。

‘I’m glad I live in it then. I don’t like my work, but I get a good deal of satisfaction out of it after all, so I won’t complain. I only wished I liked teaching as you do.’
“我很高兴我住在里面。我不喜欢我的工作，但毕竟我从中得到了很大的满足，所以我不会抱怨。我只希望我能像你一样喜欢教学。

‘I think you would if you had Laurie for a pupil. I shall be very sorry to lose him next year,’ said Mr. Brooke, busily punching holes in the turf.
“我想，如果你有劳里作为学生，你就会这么做。明年我会非常遗憾失去他，”布鲁克先生一边说，一边忙着在草坪上打洞。

‘Going to college, I suppose?’ Meg’s lips asked the question, but her eyes added, ‘And what becomes of you?’
“我想是去上大学吧？”梅格的嘴唇问了这个问题，但她的眼睛补充道，“那你呢？”

‘Yes, it’s high time he went, for he is ready, and as soon as he is off, I shall turn soldier. I am needed.’
“是的，现在是他出发的时候了，因为他已经准备好了，一旦他离开，我就会当兵。”我被需要。

‘I am glad of that!’ exclaimed Meg. ‘I should think every young man would want to go, though it is hard for the mothers and sisters who stay at home,’ she added sorrowfully. ‘I have neither, and very few friends to care whether I live or die,’ said Mr. Brooke rather bitterly as he absently put the dead rose in the hole he had made and covered it up, like a little grave.
“我很高兴！”梅格喊道。 “我想每个年轻人都会想去，尽管对于留在家里的母亲和姐妹来说这很困难，”她悲伤地补充道。 “我什么都没有，也没有几个朋友关心我的生死。”布鲁克先生心不在焉地把死去的玫瑰放进自己挖的洞里，然后把它盖起来，就像一个小坟墓一样。

‘Laurie and his grandfather would care a great deal, and we should all be very sorry to have any harm happen to you,’ said Meg heartily.
“劳里和他的祖父会非常关心的，如果你受到任何伤害，我们都应该感到非常抱歉，”梅格由衷地说。

‘Thank you, that sounds pleasant,’ began Mr. Brooke, looking cheerful again, but before he could finish his speech, Ned, mounted on the old horse, came lumbering up to display his equestrian skill before the young ladies, and there was no more quiet that day.
“谢谢你，这听起来很愉快，”布鲁克先生开始说道，看上去又很高兴，但还没等他说完，内德骑着老马，笨重地走来，在年轻女士们面前展示他的马术技巧。那天不再安静。

‘Don’t you love to ride?’ asked Grace of Amy, as they stood resting after a race round the field with the others, led by Ned.
“你不喜欢骑马吗？”艾米的格蕾丝问，当时他们和内德带领的其他人一起绕场比赛后站着休息。

‘I dote upon it. My sister, Meg, used to ride when Papa was rich, but we don’t keep any horses now, except Ellen Tree,’ added Amy, laughing.
‘我很喜欢它。爸爸有钱的时候，我妹妹梅格经常骑马，但现在除了艾伦·特里之外，我们不再养马了。”艾米笑着补充道。

‘Tell me about Ellen Tree. Is it a donkey?’ asked Grace curiously.
“告诉我关于艾伦·特里的事。”是一头驴吗？”格蕾丝好奇地问道。

‘Why, you see, Jo is crazy about horses and so am I, but we’ve only got an old sidesaddle and no horse. Out in our garden is an apple tree that has a nice low branch, so Jo put the saddle on it, fixed some reins on the part that turns up, and we bounce away on Ellen Tree whenever we like.’
‘为什么，你看，乔对马很着迷，我也是，但我们只有一个旧的侧鞍，没有马。我们的花园里有一棵苹果树，有一个漂亮的低树枝，所以乔把马鞍放在上面，在出现的部分固定一些缰绳，只要我们愿意，我们就可以在艾伦树上弹跳。

‘How funny!’ laughed Grace. ‘I have a pony at home, and ride nearly every day in the park with Fred and Kate. It’s very nice, for my friends go too, and the Row is full of ladies and gentlemen.’
“多有趣啊！”格蕾丝笑道。 “我家里有一匹小马，几乎每天都和弗雷德和凯特一起在公园里骑马。这非常好，因为我的朋友们也去了，街上挤满了女士们和先生们。

‘Dear, how charming! I hope I shall go abroad some day, but I’d rather go to Rome than the row,’ said Amy, who had not the remotest idea what the Row was and wouldn’t have asked for the world.
‘亲爱的，多么迷人啊！我希望有一天我能出国，但我宁愿去罗马，也不愿去那条街。”艾米说，她根本不知道那条街是什么，也不会问全世界。

Frank, sitting just behind the little girls, heard what they were saying, and pushed his crutch away from him with an impatient gesture as he watched the active lads going through all sorts of comical gymnastics. Beth, who was collecting the scattered Author cards, looked up and said, in her shy yet friendly way, ‘I’m afraid you are tired. Can I do anything for you?’
弗兰克坐在小女孩们后面，听到了她们在说什么，当他看着活跃的小伙子们进行各种滑稽的体操时，他不耐烦地把拐杖推开。贝丝正在收集散落的作者卡，她抬起头，用她害羞又友好的方式说道：“恐怕你累了。”我能为你做点什么吗？

‘Talk to me, please. It’s dull, sitting by myself,’ answered Frank, who had evidently been used to being made much of at home.
‘请跟我说话。 “我一个人坐着很无聊。”弗兰克回答道，他显然已经习惯了在家里受人欺负。

If he asked her to deliver a Latin oration, it would not have seemed a more impossible task to bashful Beth, but there was no place to run to, no Jo to hide behind now, and the poor boy looked so wistfully at her that she bravely resolved to try.
如果他让她发表拉丁语演讲，对于害羞的贝丝来说，这似乎并不是一个更不可能的任务，但现在无处可逃，没有乔可以躲在后面，可怜的男孩如此渴望地看着她，她勇敢地决定去尝试。

‘What do you like to talk about?’ she asked, fumbling over the cards and dropping half as she tried to tie them up.
“你喜欢聊什么？”她问道，一边摸索着卡片，一边试图把它们绑起来，结果一半都掉了。

‘Well, I like to hear about cricket and boating and hunting,’ said Frank, who had not yet learned to suit his amusements to his strength.
“嗯，我喜欢听关于板球、划船和打猎的事情，”弗兰克说，他还没有学会根据自己的体力来选择适合自己的娱乐活动。

My heart! What shall I do? I don’t know anything about them, thought Beth, and forgetting the boy’s misfortune in her flurry, she said, hoping to make him talk, ‘I never saw any hunting, but I suppose you know all about it.’
我的心！我该怎么办？我对他们一无所知，贝丝心想，她在慌乱中忘记了男孩的不幸，她说，希望能让他开口说话，“我从未见过任何狩猎，但我想你都知道这一切。”

‘I did once, but I can never hunt again, for I got hurt leaping a confounded five-barred gate, so there are no more horses and hounds for me,’ said Frank with a sigh that made Beth hate herself for her innocent blunder.
“我打过一次，但我再也不能打猎了，因为我在跳过一扇令人困惑的五栅栏门时受伤了，所以我不再有马和猎犬了，”弗兰克叹了口气说，这让贝丝恨自己犯下的无辜错误。 。

‘Your deer are much prettier than our ugly buffaloes,’ she said, turning to the prairies for help and feeling glad that she had read one of the boys’ books in which Jo delighted.
“你们的鹿比我们丑陋的水牛漂亮多了，”她说，转向大草原寻求帮助，很高兴她读了一本乔喜欢的男孩写的书。

Buffaloes proved soothing and satisfactory, and in her eagerness to amuse another, Beth forgot herself, and was quite unconscious of her sisters’ surprise and delight at the unusual spectacle of Beth talking away to one of the dreadful boys, against whom she had begged protection.
事实证明，水牛可以舒缓和令人满意，贝丝急于取悦别人，她忘记了自己，完全没有意识到她的姐妹们对贝丝与一个可怕的男孩说话的不寻常景象感到惊讶和高兴，她曾请求保护他们。 。

‘Bless her heart! She pities him, so she is good to him,’ aid Jo, beaming at her from the croquet ground.
‘祝福她的心！她可怜他，所以她对他很好。”乔在槌球场上微笑着看着她。

‘I always said she was a little saint,’ added Meg, as if there could be no further doubt of it.
“我总是说她是一位小圣人，”梅格补充道，仿佛对此不再有任何疑问。

‘I haven’t heard Frank laugh so much for ever so long,’ said Grace to Amy, as they sat discussing dolls and making tea sets out of the acorn cups.
“我已经很久没有听到弗兰克笑得这么开心了，”格蕾丝对艾米说道，当时他们坐在一起讨论洋娃娃，用橡子杯制作茶具。

‘My sister Beth is a very fastidious girl, when she likes to be,’ said Amy, well pleased at Beth’s success. She meant ‘facinating’, but as Grace didn’t know the exact meaning of either word, fastidious sounded well and made a good impression.
“我的妹妹贝丝是一个非常挑剔的女孩，只要她愿意，”艾米说，对贝丝的成功感到非常高兴。她的意思是“着迷”，但格蕾丝不知道这两个词的确切含义，“挑剔”听起来不错，给人留下了很好的印象。

An impromptu circus, fox and geese, and an amicable game of croquet finished the afternoon. At sunset the tent was struck, hampers packed, wickets pulled up, boats loaded, and the whole party floated down the river, singing at the tops of their voices. Ned, getting sentimental, warbled a serenade with the pensive refrain...
一场即兴的马戏表演、狐狸和鹅的表演以及友好的槌球比赛结束了整个下午。日落时分，帐篷被敲响，礼篮收拾好，门窗拉起，船只装满，整个队伍沿着河漂流，高声歌唱。内德变得多愁善感，用沉思的副歌唱出了一首小夜曲……

Alone, alone, ah! Woe, alone,
孤独，孤独，啊！悲哀，孤独，

and at the lines...
并在线条...

We each are young, we each have a heart,
我们每个人都年轻，我们每个人都有一颗心，

Oh, why should we stand thus coldly apart?
哦，为什么我们要如此冷漠地站在一起？

He looked at Meg with such a lackadiasical expression that she laughed outright and spoiled his song.
他用一种无精打采的表情看着梅格，梅格大笑起来，破坏了他的歌。

‘How can you be so cruel to me?’ he whispered, under cover of a lively chorus. ‘You’ve kept close to that starched-up Englishwoman all day, and now you snub me.’
“你怎么能对我这么残忍？”他在欢快的合唱声中低声说道。 “你一整天都和那个严肃的英国女人关系密切，现在却冷落了我。”

‘I didn’t mean to, but you looked so funny I really couldn’t help it,’ replied Meg, passing over the first part of his reproach, for it was quite true that she had shunned him, remembering the Moffat party and the talk after it.
“我不是故意的，但你看起来太滑稽了，我实在忍不住。”梅格回答道，忽略了他责备的第一部分，因为她确实避开了他，因为她记得莫法特的聚会和之后的谈话。

Ned was offended and turned to Sallie for consolation, saying to her rather pettishly, ‘There isn’t a bit of flirt in that girl, is there?’
内德被冒犯了，转向莎莉寻求安慰，并相当小气地对她说：“那个女孩没有一点调情的意思，不是吗？”

‘Not a particle, but she’s a dear,’ returned Sallie, defending her friend even while confessing her shortcomings.
“不是微粒，但她是亲爱的，”萨莉回答道，在承认自己的缺点的同时也为她的朋友辩护。

‘She’s not a stricken deer anyway,’ said Ned, trying to be witty, and succeeding as well as very young gentlemen usually do.
“无论如何，她也不是一头受了伤的鹿。”奈德说，试图表现得诙谐，而年轻的绅士通常都会取得成功。

On the lawn where it had gathered, the little party separated with cordial good nights and good-bys, for the Vaughns were going to Canada. As the four sisters went home through the garden, Miss Kate looked after them, saying, without the patronizing tone in her voice, ‘In spite of their demonstrative manners, American girls are very nice when one knows them.’
在大家聚集的草坪上，这一小群人亲切地道了晚安，告别了，因为沃恩一家要去加拿大。当四姐妹穿过花园回家时，凯特小姐照顾她们，语气中没有居高临下的语气，“尽管美国女孩的举止很外向，但当人们认识她们时，她们还是非常友善的。”

‘I quite agree with you,’ said Mr. Brooke.
“我非常同意你的观点，”布鲁克先生说。

CHAPTER THIRTEEN
第十三章

Laurie lay luxuriously swinging to and fro in his hammock one warm September afternoon, wondering what his neighbors were about, but too lazy to go and find out. He was in one of his moods, for the day had been both unprofitable and unsatisfactory, and he was wishing he could live it over again. The hot weather made him indolent, and he had shirked his studies, tried Mr. Brooke’s patience to the utmost, displeased his grandfather by practicing half the afternoon, frightened the maidservants half out of their wits by mischievously hinting that one of his dogs was going mad, and, after high words with the stableman about some fancied neglect of his horse, he had flung himself into his hammock to fume over the stupidity of the world in general, till the peace of the lovely day quieted him in spite of himself. Staring up into the green gloom of the horse-chestnut trees above him, he dreamed dreams of all sorts, and was just imagining himself tossing on the ocean in a voyage round the world, when the sound of voices brought him ashore in a flash. Peeping through the meshes of the hammock, he saw the Marches coming out, as if bound on some expedition.
九月一个温暖的下午，劳里豪华地躺在吊床上来回摇摆，想知道他的邻居在做什么，但懒得去了解。他的心情是这样的，因为这一天既无利可图，又令人不满意，他希望自己能重新经历一遍。炎热的天气使他懒惰，他逃避学习，把布鲁克先生的耐心磨到了极限，练习了半个下午，惹恼了他的祖父，调皮地暗示他的一只狗要走，把女仆们吓得魂飞魄散。他疯了，在与马夫说了一些关于他的马被忽视的高调之后，他跳进吊床上，对这个世界的愚蠢感到愤怒，直到美好的一天的宁静让他不由自主地平静下来。他抬头凝视着头顶上郁郁葱葱的七叶树，做了各种各样的梦，正想象着自己在海上翻腾环游世界，突然有人说话的声音把他带上了岸。透过吊床的网眼，他看到游行队伍出来了，仿佛即将踏上探险之旅。

‘What in the world are those girls about now?’ thought Laurie, opening his sleepy eyes to take a good look, for there was something rather peculiar in the appearance of his neighbors. Each wore a large, flapping hat, a brown linen pouch slung over one shoulder, and carried a long staff. Meg had a cushion, Jo a book, Beth a basket, and Amy a portfolio. All walked quietly through the garden, out at the little back gate, and began to climb the hill that lay between the house and river.
“那些女孩现在到底在做什么？”劳里想道，睁开惺忪的睡眼仔细观察，因为他的邻居们的外表有些奇怪。每个人都戴着一顶飘动的大帽子，肩上挎着一个棕色亚麻布袋，手里拿着一根长杖。梅格有一个垫子，乔有一本书，贝丝有一个篮子，艾米有一个文件夹。所有人都静静地穿过花园，出了小后门，开始爬上房子和河流之间的小山。

‘Well, that’s cool,’ said Laurie to himself, ‘to have a picnic and never ask me! They can’t be going in the boat, for they haven’t got the key. Perhaps they forgot it. I’ll take it to them, and see what’s going on.’
“嗯，这很酷，”劳里自言自语道，“去野餐而不问我！他们不能上船，因为他们没有钥匙。也许他们忘记了。我会把它带给他们，看看发生了什么事。

Though possessed of half a dozen hats, it took him some time to find one, then there was a hunt for the key, which was at last discovered in his pocket, so that the girls were quite out of sight when leaped the fence and ran after them. Taking the shortest way to the boathouse, he waited for them to appear, but no one came, and he went up the hill to take an observation. A grove of pines covered one part of it, and from the heart of this green spot came a clearer sound than the soft sigh of the pines or the drowsy chirp of the crickets.
虽然拥有六顶帽子，但他花了一些时间才找到一顶，然后又开始寻找钥匙，最后在他的口袋里发现了钥匙，这样，当女孩们跳过​​栅栏逃跑时，就完全看不见了。在他们之后。他抄近路到了船库，等他们出现，却没有人来，他就上山去观察。一片松树林覆盖了其中的一部分，从这片绿地的中心传来了一种比松树轻柔的叹息或蟋蟀昏昏欲睡的鸣叫更清晰的声音。

‘Here’s a landscape!’ thought Laurie, peeping through the bushes, and looking wide-awake and good-natured already.
“这是一片风景！”劳里一边想，一边透过灌木丛往里看，看上去已经完全清醒了，脾气也很好。

It was a rather pretty little picture, for the sisters sat together in the shady nook, with sun and shadow flickering over them, the aromatic wind lifting their hair and cooling their hot cheeks, and all the little wood people going on with their affairs as if these were no strangers but old friends. Meg sat upon her cushion, sewing daintily with her white hands, and looking as fresh and sweet as a rose in her pink dress among the green. Beth was sorting the cones that lay thick under the hemlock near by, for she made pretty things with them. Amy was sketching a group of ferns, and Jo was knitting as she read aloud. A shadow passed over the boy’s face as he watched them, feeling that he ought to go away because uninvited, yet lingering because home seemed very lonely and this quiet party in the woods most attractive to his restless spirit. He stood so still that a squirrel, busy with it’s harvesting, ran dawn a pine close beside him, saw him suddenly and skipped back, scolding so shrilly that Beth looked up, espied the wistful face behind the birches, and beckoned with a reassuring smile.
这是一幅相当漂亮的小图画，姐妹俩坐在阴凉的角落里，阳光和阴影在她们身上闪烁，芳香的风吹起她们的头发，冷却她们滚烫的脸颊，所有的小木头人都在忙着自己的事情，就像如果这些不是陌生人而是老朋友该多好。梅格坐在垫子上，用她白皙的双手精致地缝着衣服，穿着粉红色裙子的梅格在绿色中看起来像玫瑰一样清新甜美。贝丝正在整理附近铁杉下厚厚的球果，因为她用它们做了一些漂亮的东西。艾米正在画一组蕨类植物，乔一边大声朗读一边编织。当男孩看着他们时，脸上掠过一丝阴影，觉得自己应该离开，因为不请自来，但又挥之不去，因为家似乎很孤独，而树林里这个安静的聚会对他不安的灵魂最有吸引力。他一动不动地站着，以至于一只正在忙着收割的松鼠跑到了他旁边的一棵松树上，突然看到了他，跳回来，尖声地责骂着，贝丝抬起头，看到了桦树后面那张渴望的脸，并以令人放心的微笑向他招手。 。

‘May I come in, please? Or shall I be a bother?’ he asked, advancing slowly.
'我可以进来吗？或者我会成为一个麻烦吗？”他问道，慢慢地走过去。

Meg lifted her eyebrows, but Jo scowled at her defiantly and said at once, ‘Of course you may. We should have asked you before, only we thought you wouldn’t care for such a girl’s game as this.’
梅格扬起眉毛，但乔挑衅地皱起眉头，立即说道：“当然可以。”我们之前应该问过你的，只是我们以为你不会喜欢这样的女孩游戏。

‘I always like your games, but if Meg doesn’t want me, I’ll go away.’
“我一直喜欢你的游戏，但如果梅格不想要我，我就会离开。”

‘I’ve no objection, if you do something. It’s against the rules to be idle here,’ replied Meg gravely but graciously.
“如果你做某事，我不反对。 “在这里闲逛是不合规矩的。”梅格严肃而亲切地回答道。

‘Much obliged. I’ll do anything if you’ll let me stop a bit, for it’s as dull as the Desert of Sahara down there. Shall I sew, read, cone, draw, or do all at once? Bring on your bears. I’m ready.’ And Laurie sat down with a submissive expression delightful to behold.
'多谢。如果你能让我停下来，我会做任何事，因为那里就像撒哈拉沙漠一样沉闷。我应该缝纫、阅读、锥体、绘画，还是同时完成所有工作？带上你的熊。我准备好了。”劳里坐下来，脸上带着令人愉悦的顺从表情。

‘Finish this story while I set my heel,’ said Jo, handing him the book.
“在我站稳脚跟的时候，把这个故事讲完。”乔一边说，一边把书递给他。

‘Yes’m.’ was the meek answer, as he began, doing his best to prove his gratitude for the favor of admission into the ‘Busy Bee Society’.
“是的，”这是他开始时温顺的回答，并尽最大努力表达他对加入“忙碌蜜蜂协会”的恩惠的感激之情。

The story was not a long one, and when it was finished, he ventured to ask a few questions as a reward of merit.
故事不长，讲完后，他斗胆问了几个问题，算是功劳。

‘Please, ma’am, could I inquire if this highly instructive and charming institution is a new one?’
“女士，请问这个极具教育意义且迷人的机构是不是一个新机构？”

‘Would you tell him?’ asked Meg of her sisters.
“你会告诉他吗？”梅格问她的姐妹们。

‘He’ll laugh,’ said Amy warningly.
“他会笑的，”艾米警告道。

‘Who cares?’ said Jo.
“谁在乎呢？”乔说。

‘I guess he’ll like it,’ added Beth.
“我想他会喜欢的，”贝丝补充道。

‘Of course I shall! I give you my word I won’t laugh. Tell away, Jo, and don’t be afraid.’
‘我当然会！我向你保证我不会笑。告诉我吧，乔，别害怕。”

‘The idea of being afraid of you! Well, you see we used to play Pilgrim’s Progress, and we have been going on with it in earnest, all winter and summer.’
‘害怕你的想法！好吧，你看，我们过去常常玩《天路历程》，而且我们整个冬天和夏天都在认真地玩它。”

‘Yes, I know,’ said Laurie, nodding wisely.
“是的，我知道，”劳里明智地点点头说道。

‘Who told you?’ demanded Jo.
“谁告诉你的？”乔问道。

‘Spirits.’
“烈酒。”

‘No, I did. I wanted to amuse him one night when you were all away, and he was rather dismal. He did like it, so don’t scold, Jo,’ said Beth meekly.
'不，我做了。有一天晚上你不在的时候我想逗他开心，但他却很沮丧。他确实喜欢它，所以不要责骂，乔，”贝丝温顺地说。

‘You can’t keep a secret. Never mind, it saves trouble now.’
‘你不能保守秘密。没关系，现在省事了。”

‘Go on, please,’ said Laurie, as Jo became absorbed in her work, looking a trifle displeased.
“请继续，”劳里说，乔全神贯注于她的工作，看上去有点不高兴。

‘Oh, didn’t she tell you about this new plan of ours? Well, we have tried not to waste our holiday, but each has had a task and worked at it with a will. The vacation is nearly over, the stints are all done, and we are ever so glad that we didn’t dawdle.’
‘哦，她没有告诉你我们的这个新计划吗？好吧，我们已经尽力不浪费假期了，但每个人都有自己的任务，并且都愿意努力完成它。假期快结束了，所有的工作都结束了，我们很高兴我们没有磨磨蹭蹭。

‘Yes, I should think so,’ and Laurie thought regretfully of his own idle days. ‘Mother likes to have us out-of-doors as much as possible, so we bring our work here and have nice times. For the fun of it we bring our things in these bags, wear the old hats, use poles to climb the hill, and play pilgrims, as we used to do years ago. We call this hill the Delectable Mountain, for we can look far away and see the country where we hope to live some time.’
“是的，我应该这么认为。”劳里遗憾地想起自己无所事事的日子。 “妈妈喜欢让我们尽可能多地到户外活动，所以我们把工作带到这里，享受美好时光。为了好玩，我们把东西装在袋子里，戴上旧帽子，用棍子爬山，扮演朝圣者的角色，就像我们几年前所做的那样。我们称这座山为“喜悦山”，因为我们可以远远望去，看到我们希望居住一段时间的国家。

Jo pointed, and Laurie sat up to examine, for through an opening in the wood one could look cross the wide, blue river, the meadows on the other side, far over the outskirts of the great city, to the green hills that rose to meet the sky. The sun was low, and the heavens glowed with the splendor of an autumn sunset. Gold and purple clouds lay on the hilltops, and rising high into the ruddy light were silvery white peaks that shone like the airy spires of some Celestial City.
乔指着，劳里坐起来查看，因为透过树林中的一个开口，人们可以看到宽阔、蓝色的河流，另一边的草地，远远越过这座大城市的郊区，看到高耸入云的绿色山丘。遇见天空。太阳已经很低了，天空闪耀着秋日落日的光辉。山顶上铺满了金色和紫色的云彩，银白色的山峰在红光中高高耸立，闪闪发光，就像某些天城的空中尖塔一样。

‘How beautiful that is!’ said Laurie softly, for he was quick to see and feel beauty of any kind.
“那真是太美了！”劳里轻声说道，因为他很快就能看到并感受到任何形式的美。

‘It’s often so, and we like to watch it, for it is never the same, but always splendid,’ replied Amy, wishing she could paint it.
“经常如此，我们喜欢看它，因为它永远不一样，但总是很精彩，”艾米回答道，希望她能把它画下来。

‘Jo talks about the country where we hope to live sometime—the real country, she means, with pigs and chickens and haymaking. It would be nice, but I wish the beautiful country up there was real, and we could ever go to it,’ said Beth musingly.
“乔谈到了我们希望有一天能生活的国家——她指的是真正的国家，有猪、鸡和干草。那就太好了，但我希望那里美丽的乡村是真实的，我们可以去那里。”贝丝若有所思地说。

‘There is a lovelier country even than that, where we shall go, by-and-by, when we are good enough,’ answered Meg with her sweetest voice.
“还有一个比那更可爱的国家，当我们足够优秀的时候，我们就会去那里，”梅格用她最甜美的声音回答道。

‘It seems so long to wait, so hard to do. I want to fly away at once, as those swallows fly, and go in at that splendid gate.’
“等待似乎很漫长，又很难做到。我想像那些燕子一样飞走，飞进那扇华丽的大门。

‘You’ll get there, Beth, sooner or later, no fear of that,’ said Jo. ‘I’m the one that will have to fight and work, and climb and wait, and maybe never get in after all.’
“你迟早会到达那里的，贝丝，不用担心，”乔说。 “我是那个必须战斗、工作、攀登和等待的人，也许最终永远也进不去。”

‘you’ll have me for company, if that’s any comfort. I shall have to do a deal of traveling before I come in sight of your Celestial City. If I arrive late, you’ll say a good word for me, won’t you, Beth?’
“有我作伴的话，如果这能让你感到安慰的话。”在我看到你们的天国之前，我还得走很多路。如果我迟到了，你会为我说几句好话，不是吗，贝丝？

Something in the boy’s face troubled his little friend, but she said cheerfully, with her quiet eyes on the changing clouds, ‘If people really want to go, and really try all their lives, I think they will get in, for I don’t believe there are any locks on that door or any guards at the gate. I always imagine it is as it is in the picture, where the shining ones stretch out their hands to welcome poor Christian as he comes up from the river.
男孩脸上的表情让他的小朋友感到不安，但她用平静的目光看着不断变化的云彩，高兴地说：“如果人们真的想去，并且真的想尽一生去尝试，我想他们会进去的，因为我不想。”我不相信那扇门上有锁，也不相信门口有守卫。我总是想象照片中的样子，当可怜的基督徒从河里上来时，闪闪发光的人伸出双手欢迎他。

‘Wouldn’t it be fun if all the castles in the air which we make could come true, and we could live in them?’ said Jo, after a little pause.
“如果我们建造的所有空中楼阁都能成真，并且我们可以住在里面，那不是很有趣吗？”乔停顿了一下后说道。

‘I’ve made such quantities it would be hard to choose which I’d have,’ said Laurie, lying flat and throwing cones at the squirrel who had betrayed him.
“我已经做了这么多，很难选择我要吃哪一个，”劳里说，平躺在地上，向背叛他的松鼠扔甜筒。

‘You’d have to take your favorite one. What is it?’ asked Meg.
‘你必须带上你最喜欢的一件。是什么？”梅格问道。

‘If I tell mine, will you tell yours?’
“如果我告诉我的，你会告诉你的吗？”

‘Yes, if the girls will too.’
“是的，如果女孩们也愿意的话。”

‘We will. Now, Laurie.’
'我们将。现在，劳里。”

‘After I’d seen as much of the world as I want to, I’d like to settle in Germany and have just as much music as I choose. I’m to be a famous musician myself, and all creation is to rush to hear me. And I’m never to be bothered about money or business, but just enjoy myself and live for what I like. That’s my favorite castle. What’s yours, Meg?’
“在我随心所欲地参观了世界之后，我想在德国定居并享受我选择的尽可能多的音乐。我自己要成为一名著名的音乐家，所有的创作都是为了聆听我的声音。我从不为金钱或生意所困扰，只是享受自己，为自己喜欢的事情而生活。那是我最喜欢的城堡。梅格，你的是什么？

Margaret seemed to find it a little hard to tell hers, and waved a brake before her face, as if to disperse imaginary gnats, while she said slowly, ‘I should like a lovely house, full of all sorts of luxurious things—nice food, pretty clothes, handsome furniture, pleasant people, and heaps of money. I am to be mistress of it, and manage it as I like, with plenty of servants, so I never need work a bit. How I should enjoy it! For I wouldn’t be idle, but do good, and make everyone love me dearly.’
玛格丽特似乎觉得有些难以启齿，她在面前挥舞着刹车，仿佛要驱散想象中的小虫子，同时她缓缓地说：“我想要一座可爱的房子，里面装满了各种奢华的东西——美味的食物。” ，漂亮的衣服，漂亮的家具，和蔼可亲的人，还有大量的金钱。我将成为它的女主人，并随心所欲地管理它，并有很多仆人，所以我永远不需要工作。我该多么享受啊！因为我不会闲着，而是做好事，让每个人都深深地爱我。

‘Wouldn’t you have a master for your castle in the air?’ asked Laurie slyly.
“你的空中楼阁难道没有主人吗？”劳里狡猾地问道。

‘I said ‘pleasant people’, you know,’ And Meg carefully tied up her shoe as she spoke, so that no one saw her face.
“我说的是‘令人愉快的人’，你知道，”梅格一边说话，一边小心翼翼地系好鞋子，这样就没有人看到她的脸了。

‘Why don’t you say you’d have a splendid, wise, good husband and some angelic little children? You know your castle wouldn’t be perfect without,’ said blunt Jo, who had no tender fancies yet, and rather scorned romance, except in books.
‘你为什么不说你会有一个出色、明智、善良的丈夫和一些天使般的孩子呢？你知道如果没有，你的城堡就不会完美。”乔直言不讳地说，她还没有温柔的幻想，而且相当蔑视浪漫，除了书本。

‘You’d have nothing but horses, inkstands, and novels in yours,’ answered Meg petulantly.
“你身上除了马、墨水瓶和小说什么都没有，”梅格脾气暴躁地回答。

‘Wouldn’t I though? I’d have a stable full of Arabian steeds, rooms piled high with books, and I’d write out of a magic inkstand, so that my works should be as famous as Laurie’s music. I want to do something splendid before I go into my castle, something heroic or wonderful that won’t be forgotten after I’m dead. I don’t know what, but I’m on the watch for it, and mean to astonish you all some day. I think I shall write books, and get rich and famous, that would suit me, so that is my favorite dream.’
‘我不会吗？我会有一个装满阿拉伯马的马厩，房间里堆满了书籍，我会用一个神奇的墨水瓶写字，这样我的作品就会像劳里的音乐一样出名。我想在进入我的城堡之前做一些辉煌的事情，一些英雄的或美妙的事情，在我死后不会被忘记。我不知道是什么，但我正在留意这一点，并打算有一天让你们所有人大吃一惊。我想我应该写书，变得富有和出名，这适合我，所以这是我最喜欢的梦想。

‘Mine is to stay at home safe with Father and Mother, and help take care of the family,’ said Beth contentedly.
“我的任务是安全地呆在家里和爸爸妈妈在一起，帮助照顾家人，”贝丝满意地说。

‘Don’t you wish for anything else?’ asked Laurie. ‘Since I had my little piano, I am perfectly satisfied. I only wish we may all keep well and be together, nothing else.’
“你不想要别的东西吗？”劳里问。 “自从有了我的小钢琴，我就非常满意了。我只希望我们都能好好地在一起，除此之外别无其他。

‘I have ever so many wishes, but the pet one is to be an artist, and go to Rome, and do fine pictures, and be the best artist in the whole world,’ was Amy’s modest desire.
“我有很多愿望，但最重要的是成为一名艺术家，去罗马，画出精美的画，成为全世界最好的艺术家，”艾米谦虚的愿望。

‘We’re an ambitious set, aren’t we? Every one of us, but Beth, wants to be rich and famous, and gorgeous in every respect. I do wonder if any of us will ever get our wishes,’ said Laurie, chewing grass like a meditative calf.
‘我们是一群雄心勃勃的人，不是吗？我们每个人，除了贝丝，都想变得富有、出名，并且在各个方面都变得华丽。我确实想知道我们中是否有人能实现我们的愿望。”劳里一边说，一边像一头沉思的小牛一样嚼着草。

‘I’ve got the key to my castle in the air, but whether I can unlock the door remains to be seen,’ observed Jo mysteriously.
“我拿到了空中楼阁的钥匙，但能否打开大门还有待观察。”乔神秘地说道。

‘I’ve got the key to mine, but I’m not allowed to try it. Hang college!’ muttered Laurie with an impatient sigh.
“我有钥匙，但我不被允许尝试。上大学吧！”劳里不耐烦地叹了口气，嘀咕道。

‘Here’s mine!’ and Amy waved her pencil.
“这是我的！”艾米挥舞着铅笔。

‘I haven’t got any,’ said Meg forlornly.
“我什么也没有。”梅格绝望地说。

‘Yes, you have,’ said Laurie at once.
“是的，你有，”劳里立刻说道。

‘Where?’
'在哪里？'

‘In your face.’
'在你的脸上。'

‘Nonsense, that’s of no use.’ ‘Wait and see if it doesn’t bring you something worth having,’ replied the boy, laughing at the thought of a charming little secret which he fancied he knew.
“废话，那是没有用的。” “等等，看看它是否能给你带来一些值得拥有的东西。”男孩回答道，一想到他自以为知道的一个迷人的小秘密，他就笑了。

Meg colored behind the brake, but asked no questions and looked across the river with the same expectant expression which Mr. Brooke had worn when he told the story of the knight.
梅格在刹车后​​脸色红了，但没有问任何问题，而是用布鲁克先生讲述骑士故事时同样期待的表情看着河对岸。

‘If we are all alive ten years hence, let’s meet, and see how many of us have got our wishes, or how much nearer we are then than now,’ said Jo, always ready with a plan.
“如果十年后我们都还活着，让我们见面，看看我们中有多少人已经实现了我们的愿望，或者我们当时比现在离我们有多近，”乔说，他总是做好计划。

‘Bless me! How old I shall be, twenty-seven!’ exclaimed Meg, who felt grown up already, having just reached seventeen.
'保佑我（宗教！ “我多大了，二十七岁了！”梅格惊呼道，她感觉自己已经长大了，刚刚十七岁。

‘You and I will be twenty-six, Teddy, Beth twenty-four, and Amy twenty-two. What a venerable party!’ said Jo.
“你和我今年二十六岁，泰迪、贝丝二十四岁，艾米二十二岁。多么令人尊敬的聚会啊！”乔说。

‘I hope I shall have done something to be proud of by that time, but I’m such a lazy dog, I’m afraid I shall dawdle, Jo.’
“我希望到时候我已经做了一些值得骄傲的事情，但我真是一只懒狗，我担心我会磨磨蹭蹭，乔。”

‘You need a motive, Mother says, and when you get it, she is sure you’ll work splendidly.’
“你需要一个动机，妈妈说，当你找到它时，她相信你会做得很好。”

‘Is she? By Jupiter, I will, if I only get the chance!’ cried Laurie, sitting up with sudden energy. ‘I ought to be satisfied to please Grandfather, and I do try, but it’s working against the grain, you see, and comes hard. He wants me to be an India merchant, as he was, and I’d rather be shot. I hate tea and sild and spices, and every sort of rubbish his old ships bring, and I don’t care how soon they go to the bottom when I own them. Going to college ought to satisfy him, for if I give him four years he ought to let me off from the business. But he’s set, and I’ve got to do just as he did, unless I break away and please myself, as my father did. If there was anyone left to stay with the old gentleman, I’d do it tomorrow.’
‘是吗？发誓，只要有机会，我一定会的！”劳里喊道，突然充满了活力坐了起来。 “我应该满足于取悦祖父，我确实尝试过，但这是违背常理的，你看，而且来得很艰难。他希望我像他一样成为一名印度商人，而我宁愿被枪杀。我讨厌茶、淤泥和香料，以及他的旧船带来的各种垃圾，我不在乎当我拥有它们时它们多久就会沉入海底。上大学应该让他满意，因为如果我给他四年的时间，他应该让我离开这个行业。但他已经决定了，我必须像他那样做，除非我像我父亲那样挣脱束缚并取悦自己。如果还有人留下来和老先生住在一起，我明天就去。

Laurie spoke excitedly, and looked ready to carry his threat into execution on the slightest provocation, for he was growing up very fast and, in spite of his indolent ways, had a young man’s hatred of subjection, a young man’s restless longing to try the world for himself.
劳里兴奋地说着，一有轻微的挑衅，他就准备将他的威胁付诸实施，因为他成长得很快，尽管他的行为懒惰，但他有年轻人对服从的仇恨，年轻人对尝试的不安的渴望。自己的世界。

‘I advise you to sail away in one of your ships, and never come home again till you have tried your own way,’ said Jo, whose imagination was fired by the thought of such a daring exploit, and whose sympathy was excited by what she called ‘Teddy’s Wrongs’.
“我建议你乘你的一艘船扬帆远航，除非你尝试过自己的方式，否则永远不要再回家，”乔说。想到如此大胆的冒险，她的想象力被激发了，她的同情心被什么激发了。她称之为“泰迪的错误”。

‘That’s not right, Jo. You mustn’t talk in that way, and Laurie mustn’t take your bad advice. You should do just what your grandfather wishes, my dear boy,’ said Meg in her most maternal tone. ‘Do your best at college, and when he sees that you try to please him, I’m sure he won’t be hard on you or unjust to you. As you say, there is no one else to stay with and love him, and you’d never forgive yourself if you left him without his permission. Don’t be dismal or fret, but do your duty and you’ll get your reward, as good Mr. Brooke has, by being respected and loved.’
‘这是不对的，乔。你不能那样说话，劳里也不能接受你的坏建议。你应该按照你祖父的意愿去做，我亲爱的孩子，”梅格用她最慈母的语气说道。 “在大学里尽力而为，当他看到你试图取悦他时，我相信他不会对你严厉或不公正。正如你所说，没有人可以陪伴他、爱他，如果你未经他的允许就离开他，你永远不会原谅自己。不要沮丧或烦恼，只要履行你的职责，你就会得到回报，就像布鲁克先生一样，受到尊重和爱戴。

‘What do you know about him?’ asked Laurie, grateful for the good advice, but objecting to the lecture, and glad to turn the conversation from himself after his unusual outbreak.
“你对他了解多少？”劳里问道，他很感激他的好建议，但他反对听讲座，并很高兴在他不寻常的爆发后将话题从自己身上转移开。

‘Only what your grandpa told us about him, how he took good care of his own mother till she died, and wouldn’t go abroad as tutor to some nice person because he wouldn’t leave her. And how he provides now for an old woman who nursed his mother, and never tells anyone, but is just as generous and patient and good as he can be.’
“只有你爷爷告诉我们的关于他的事情，他如何照顾自己的母亲直到她去世，并且不会出国给一些好人做家庭教师，因为他不会离开她。以及他现在如何供养一位照顾他母亲的老妇人，她从不告诉任何人，但尽其所能地慷慨、耐心和善良。

‘So he is, dear old fellow!’ said Laurie heartily, as Meg paused, looking flushed and earnest with her story. ‘It’s like Grandpa to find out all about him without letting him know, and to tell all his goodness to others, so that they might like him. Brooke couldn’t understand why your mother was so kind to him, asking him over with me and treating him in her beautiful friendly way. He thought she was just perfect, and talked about it for days and days, and went on about you all in flaming style. If ever I do get my wish, you see what I’ll do for Booke.’
“原来如此，亲爱的老伙计！”劳里由衷地说，梅格停了下来，她的故事看起来涨红了，很认真。 ‘就像爷爷在不让他知道的情况下发现了他的一切，把他所有的好都告诉别人，让他们喜欢他。布鲁克不明白为什么你母亲对他这么好，邀请他和我一起过来，并以她美丽友好的方式对待他。他认为她很完美，并且谈论了很多天，并以火热的风格继续谈论你们所有人。如果我真的实现了我的愿望，你会看到我会为布克做些什么。

‘Begin to do something now by not plaguing his life out,’ said Meg sharply.
“现在就开始做点什么吧，不要让他的生活陷入困境。”梅格尖锐地说。

‘How do you know I do, Miss?’ ‘I can always tell by his face when he goes away. If you have been good, he looks satisfied and walks briskly. If you have plagued him, he’s sober and walks slowly, as if he wanted to go back and do his work better.’
“你怎么知道我知道，小姐？” “当他离开时，我总是能从他的表情看出。”如果你表现得很好，他就会看起来很满意并且走路轻快。如果你困扰了他，他会很清醒，走得很慢，好像他想回去更好地完成工作。

‘Well, I like that? So you keep an account of my good and bad marks in Brooke’s face, do you? I see him bow and smile as he passes your window, but I didn’t know you’d got up a telegraph.’
‘嗯，我喜欢这样？所以你把我的好坏记在布鲁克的脸上，是吗？当他经过你的窗户时，我看到他鞠躬微笑，但我不知道你收到了一份电报。

‘We haven’t. Don’t be angry, and oh, don’t tell him I said anything! It was only to show that I cared how you get on, and what is said here is said in confidence, you know,’ cried Meg, much alarmed at the thought of what might follow from her careless speech.
‘我们没有。别生气，哦，别告诉他我说什么了！这只是为了表明我关心你过得怎么样，你知道，这里所说的都是私下里说的，”梅格喊道，一想到自己漫不经心的演讲可能会带来什么后果，她感到非常震惊。

‘I don’t tell tales,’ replied Laurie, with his ‘high and mighty’ air, as Jo called a certain expression which he occasionally wore. ‘Only if Brooke is going to be a thermometer, I must mind and have fair weather for him to report.’
“我不讲故事，”劳里回答道，他的神态“高高在上”，乔称他偶尔会有这种表情。 “只有当布鲁克要成为温度计时，我才必须介意并让他报告天气晴朗。”

‘Please don’t be offended. I didn’t meant to preach or tell tales or be silly. I only thought Jo was encouraging you in a feeling which you’d be sorry for by-and-by. You are so kind to us, we feel as if you were our brother and say just what we think. Forgive me, I meant it kindly.’ And Meg offered her hand with a gesture both affectionate and timid.
‘请不要生气。我无意说教、讲故事或犯傻。我只是以为乔是在鼓励你，但你很快就会后悔的。您对我们真好，我们感觉您就像我们的兄弟一样，说出了我们的想法。请原谅我，我是出于善意。”梅格伸出手，做出了一个既深情又胆怯的手势。

Ashamed of his momentary pique, Laurie squeezed the kind little hand, and said frankly, ‘I’m the one to be forgiven. I’m cross and have been out of sorts all day. I like to have you tell me my faults and be sisterly, so don’t mind if I am grumpy sometimes. I thank you all the same.’
劳里为自己一时的愤怒感到羞愧，握紧了那只善良的小手，坦白地说：“我是那个应该被原谅的人。”我很生气，一整天都心情不好。我喜欢你告诉我我的缺点并像姐妹一样，所以不要介意我有时脾气暴躁。我还是谢谢你们。

Bent on showing that he was not offended, he made himself as agreeable as possible, wound cotton for Meg, recited poetry to please Jo, shook down cones for Beth, and helped Amy with her ferns, proving himself a fit person to belong to the ‘Busy Bee Society’. In the midst of an animated discussion on the domestic habits of turtles (one of those amiable creatures having strolled up from the river), the faint sound of a bell warned them that Hannah had put the tea ‘to draw’, and they would just have time to get home to supper.
他一心想表现出自己没有被冒犯，所以尽可能地表现得和蔼可亲，为梅格缠绕棉花，为乔吟诵诗歌，为贝丝摇落球果，帮助艾米种植蕨类植物，证明自己是一个适合属于这个群体的人。 “忙碌的蜜蜂协会”。正当大家热烈讨论海龟（一种从河里漫步上来的可爱生物）的生活习惯时，微弱的铃声警告他们，汉娜已经把茶“泡”了，他们就有时间回家吃晚饭。

‘May I come again?’ asked Laurie.
“我可以再来吗？”劳里问。

‘Yes, if your are good, and love your book, as the boys in the primer are told to do,’ said Meg, smiling.
“是的，如果你很优秀，并且喜欢你的书，正如初级读物中的男孩们被告知要做的那样，”梅格微笑着说。

‘i’ll try.’
'我会尽力。'

‘Then you may come, and I’ll teach you to knit as the Scotchmen do. There’s a demand for socks just now,’ added Jo, waving hers like a big blue worsted banner as they parted at the gate.
“那么你可以来，我会教你像苏格兰人那样编织。现在对袜子的需求很大，”乔补充道，当他们在门口分开时，她像一面巨大的蓝色精纺横幅一样挥舞着她的袜子。

That night, when Beth played to Mr. Laurence in the twilight, Laurie, standing in the shadow of the curtain, listened to the little David, whose simple music always quieted his moody spirit, and watched the old man, who sat with his gray head on his hand, thinking tender thoughts of the dead child he had loved so much. Remembering the conversation of the afternoon, the boy said to himself, with the resolve to make the sacrifice cheerfully, ‘I’ll let my castle go, and stay with the dear old gentleman while he needs me, for I am all he has.’
那天晚上，当贝丝在暮色中为劳伦斯先生演奏时，劳里站在窗帘的阴影里，听着小大卫的演奏，他简单的音乐总能让他喜怒无常的精神平静下来，看着老人，他和他的灰色头发坐在一起。头靠在手上，温柔地思念着他深爱的死去的孩子。想起下午的谈话，男孩对自己说，决心高兴地做出牺牲，“我会离开我的城堡，在亲爱的老先生需要我的时候和他在一起，因为我是他的一切。” '

CHAPTER FOURTEEN
第十四章

Jo was very busy in the garret, for the October days began to grow chilly, and the afternoons were short. For two or three hours the sun lay warmly in the high window, showing Jo seated on the old sofa, writing busily, with her papers spread out upon a trunk before her, while Scrabble, the pet rat, promenaded the beams overhead, accompanied by his oldest son, a fine young fellow, who was evidently very proud of his whiskers. Quite absorbed in her work, Jo scribbled away till the last page was filled, when she signed her name with a flourish and threw down her pen, exclaiming...
乔在阁楼里非常忙碌，因为十月的天气开始变得寒冷，下午的时间也很短。两三个小时里，阳光温暖地照在高高的窗户上，乔坐在旧沙发上，忙着写字，她的文件摊在她面前的箱子上，而宠物鼠拼字游戏则在头顶的横梁上散步，陪伴着她。他的大儿子是个优秀的小伙子，显然对自己的胡须感到非常自豪。乔全神贯注地写着，直到写完最后一页，她才用花体签名签下自己的名字，然后扔下笔，感叹道……

‘There, I’ve done my best! If this won’t suit I shall have to wait till I can do better.’
‘嗯，我已经尽力了！如果这不适合我，我将不得不等待，直到我能做得更好。

Lying back on the sofa, she read the manuscript carefully through, making dashes here and there, and putting in many exclamation points, which looked like little balloons. Then she tied it up with a smart red ribbon, and sat a minute looking at it with a sober, wistful expression, which plainly showed how ernest her work had been. Jo’s desk up here was an old tin kitchen which hung against the wall. It it she kept her papers, and a few books, safely shut away from Scrabble, who, being likewise of a literary turn, was fond of making a circulating library of such books as were left in his way by eating the leaves. From this tin receptacle Jo produced another manuscript, and putting both in her pocket, crept quietly downstairs, leaving her friends to nibble on her pens and taste her ink.
她靠在沙发上，仔细地把稿子读了一遍，这里划了划，那里画了划线，还打了很多感叹号，看起来就像一个个小气球。然后她用一条漂亮的红丝带把它绑起来，坐了一会儿，带着一种清醒、渴望的表情看着它，这清楚地表明了她的工作是多么认真。乔在这里的桌子是一个靠墙的旧锡制厨房。因此，她把自己的文件和几本书安全地与拼字游戏隔绝开来，而拼字游戏同样具有文学倾向，喜欢用吃树叶时留下的书籍建立一个循环图书馆。乔从这个锡容器里拿出另一份手稿，把两份手稿都放进口袋里，悄悄地爬下楼，留下她的朋友们啃着她的笔，尝着她的墨水。

She put on her hat and jacket as noiselessly as possible, and going to the back entry window, got out upon the roof of a low porch, swung herself down to the grassy bank, and took a roundabout way to the road. Once there, she composed herself, hailed a passing omnibus, and rolled away to town, looking very merry and mysterious.
她尽可能悄无声息地戴上帽子和夹克，走到后门窗前，从低矮的门廊屋顶上下来，跳到长满青草的河岸上，绕道来到马路上。一到那里，她就镇定下来，招呼一辆路过的公共汽车，然后驶向城镇，看上去非常快乐和神秘。

If anyone had been watching her, he would have thought her movements decidedly peculiar, for on alighting, she went off at a great pace till she reached a certain number in a certain busy street. Having found the place with some difficulty, she went into the doorway, looked up the dirty stairs, and after standing stock still a minute, suddenly dived into the street and walked away as rapidly as she came. This maneuver she repeated several times, to the great amusement of a black-eyed young gentleman lounging in the window of a building opposite. On returning for the third time, Jo gave herself a shake, pulled her hat over her eyes, and walked up the stairs, looking as if she were going to have all her teeth out.
如果有人在看她，一定会觉得她的动作很奇怪，因为下车后，她的步伐很快，直到在某条繁忙的街道上到达了某个号码。好不容易找到了地方，她走进门口，抬头看了看脏兮兮的楼梯，原地站了一会儿，突然跳进街上，像来时那样快步走开。这个动作她重复了好几次，把一位懒洋洋地躺在对面大楼窗户上的黑眼睛的年轻绅士逗乐了。第三次回来时，乔摇了摇自己，把帽子拉到眼睛上，然后走上楼梯，看起来好像要把所有的牙齿都拔掉。

There was a dentist’s sign, among others, which adorned the entrance, and after staring a moment at the pair of artificial jaws which slowly opened and shut to draw attention to a fine set of teeth, the young gentleman put on his coat, took his hat, and went down to post himself in the opposite doorway, saying with a smile and a shiver, ‘It’s like her to come alone, but if she has a bad time she’ll need someone to help her home.’
入口处装饰着一个牙医的标志，年轻的绅士盯着那对缓慢打开和关闭以引起人们对一口漂亮牙齿的注意的人造下颌看了一会儿，然后穿上外套，拿起他的牙套。 ”然后走到对面门口，笑着说道，“她一个人来的感觉很像，但如果她心情不好，就需要有人搀扶她回家。”

In ten minutes Jo came running downstairs with a very red face and the general appearance of a person who had just passed through a trying ordeal of some sort. When she saw the young gentleman she looked anything but pleased, and passed him with a nod. But he followed, asking with an air of sympathy, ‘Did you have a bad time?’
十分钟后，乔跑下楼，脸涨得通红，看上去像是刚刚经历过某种磨难的人。当她看到这位年轻绅士时，她看上去一点也不高兴，只是点点头就从他身边走过了。但他还是跟了上去，一脸同情地问道：“你过得不好吗？”

‘Not very.’
'不是特别的。'

‘You got through quickly.’
“你很快就通过了。”

‘Yes, thank goodness!’
“是的，谢天谢地！”

‘Why did you go alone?’
“你为什么一个人去？”

‘Didn’t want anyone to know.’
“不想让任何人知道。”

‘You’re the oddest fellow I ever saw. How many did you have out?’
‘你是我见过的最奇怪的人。你出去了多少？

Jo looked at her friend as if she did not understand him, then began to laugh as if mightily amused at something.
乔看着她的朋友，好像她不明白他的意思，然后开始大笑，好像被什么事情逗乐了。

‘There are two which I want to have come out, but I must wait a week.’
“我想出版两本，但我必须等一周。”

‘What are you laughing at? You are up to some mischief, Jo,’ said Laurie, looking mystified.
'你在笑什么？你在搞恶作剧，乔，”劳里说道，看上去很困惑。

‘So are you. What were you doing, sir, up in that billiard saloon?’
'你也是。先生，你在台球厅里做什么？

‘Begging your pardon, ma’am, it wasn’t a billiard saloon, but a gymnasium, and I was taking a lesson in fencing.’
“请原谅，女士，那不是台球馆，而是体育馆，我正在上击剑课。”

‘I’m glad of that.’
“我对此很高兴。”

‘why?’
'为什么？'

‘You can teach me, and then when we play HAMLET, you can be Laertes, and we’ll make a fine thing of the fencing scene.’
“你可以教我，然后当我们玩哈姆雷特时，你可以成为莱尔提斯，我们会把击剑场景做得很好。”

‘Laurie burst out with a hearty boy’s laugh, which made several passers-by smile in spite of themselves.
劳里爆发出男孩般爽朗的笑声，引得不少路人不由自主地笑了。

‘I’ll teach you whether we play HAMLET or not. It’s grand fun and will straighten you up capitally. But I don’t believe that was your only reason for saying ‘I’m glad’ in that decided way, was it now?’
“无论我们是否玩哈姆雷特，我都会教你。这非常有趣，而且会让你重新振作起来。但我不认为这是你以那种坚定的方式说“我很高兴”的唯一原因，是现在吗？

‘No, I was glad that you were not in the saloon, because I hope you never go to such places. Do you?’
“不，我很高兴你不在酒吧里，因为我希望你永远不要去这种地方。你？'

‘Not often.’
'不经常。'

‘I wish you wouldn’t.’
“我希望你不要。”

‘It’s no harm, Jo. I have billiards at home, but it’s no fun unless you have good players, so, as I’m fond of it, I come sometimes and have a game with Ned Moffat or some of the other fellows.’
“这没什么坏处，乔。我家里有台球，但除​​非有优秀的球员，否则就没啥乐趣，所以，因为我喜欢打台球，所以有时我会来和内德·莫法特或其他一些人打一场比赛。

‘Oh, dear, I’m so sorry, for you’ll get to liking it better and better, and will waste time and money, and grow like those dreadful boys. I did hope you’d stay respectable and be a satisfaction to your friends,’ said Jo, shaking her head.
“哦，亲爱的，我很抱歉，因为你会越来越喜欢它，并且会浪费时间和金钱，并像那些可怕的男孩一样成长。我确实希望你能保持受人尊敬，让你的朋友感到满意。”乔摇摇头说道。

‘Can’t a fellow take a little innocent amusement now and then without losing his respectability?’ asked Laurie, looking nettled.
“一个人就不能时不时地享受一下天真无邪的娱乐，同时又不会失去他的尊严吗？​​”劳里问道，看上去有些恼火。

‘That depends upon how and where he takes it. I don’t like Ned and his set, and wish you’d keep out of it. Mother won’t let us have him at our house, though he wants to come. And if you grow like him she won’t be willing to have us frolic together as we do now.’ ‘Won’t she?’ asked Laurie anxiously.
“这取决于他采取的方式和地点。我不喜欢内德和他的团队，希望你不要参与其中。尽管他想来，但母亲不让他来我们家。如果你长得像他，她就不会愿意让我们像现在这样一起嬉戏。” “她不会吗？”劳里焦急地问。

‘No, she can’t bear fashionable young men, and she’d shut us all up in bandboxes rather than have us associate with them.’
“不，她无法忍受时尚的年轻人，她会把我们都关在乐队盒子里，而不是让我们和他们交往。”

‘Well, she needn’t get out her bandboxes yet. I’m not a fashionable party and don’t mean to be, but I do like harmless larks now and then, don’t you?’
“好吧，她还不需要拿出她的乐队盒。我不是一个时尚派，也无意成为时尚派，但我确实偶尔喜欢无害的百灵鸟，不是吗？

‘Yes, nobody minds them, so lark away, but don’t get wild, will you? Or there will be an end of all our good times.’
“是的，没有人介意他们，所以你可以开开心心地走开，但别发疯，好吗？”否则我们所有的美好时光都会结束。”

‘I’ll be a double distilled saint.’
“我将成为一名双蒸馏圣人。”

‘I can’t bear saints. Just be a simple, honest, respectable boy, and we’ll never desert you. I don’t know what I should do if you acted like Mr. King’s son. He had plenty of money, but didn’t know how to spend it, and got tipsy and gambled, and ran away, and forged his father’s name, I believe, and was altogether horrid.’
‘我不能容忍圣人。做一个简单、诚实、受人尊敬的男孩，我们永远不会抛弃你。如果你像金先生的儿子那样行事，我不知道该怎么办。他有很多钱，但不知道如何花掉，然后喝醉了，赌博，然后逃跑，我相信，还伪造了他父亲的名字，这真是太可怕了。”

‘You think I’m likely to do the same? Much obliged.’
‘你认为我也会做同样的事吗？多谢。'

‘No, I don’t—oh, dear, no!—but I hear people talking about money being such a temptation, and I sometimes wish you were poor. I shouldn’t worry then.’
“不，我不——哦，天哪，不！——但我听到人们谈论金钱是一种诱惑，有时我希望你是穷人。那我不应该担心。

‘Do you worry about me, Jo?’
“你担心我吗，乔？”

‘A little, when you look moody and discontented, as you sometimes do, for you’ve got such a strong will, if you once get started wrong, I’m afraid it would be hard to stop you.’
“有一点，当你看上去情绪低落、不满的时候，就像你有时那样，因为你的意志如此坚强，一旦开始就错了，恐怕就很难阻止你了。”

Laurie walked in silence a few minutes, and Jo watched him, wishing she had held her tongue, for his eyes looked angry, though his lips smiled as if at her warnings.
劳里默默地走了几分钟，乔看着他，希望她能闭嘴，因为他的眼睛看起来很生气，尽管他的嘴唇微笑着，仿佛听到了她的警告。

‘Are you going to deliver lectures all the way home?’ he asked presently.
“你要一路演讲回家吗？”不久他问道。

‘Of course not. Why?’
'当然不是。为什么？'

‘Because if you are, I’ll take a bus. If you’re not, I’d like to walk with you and tell you something very interesting.’
“因为如果你是的话，我就坐公共汽车。”如果你不喜欢，我想和你一起散步，告诉你一些非常有趣的事情。

‘I won’t preach any more, and I’d like to hear the news immensely.’
“我不会再讲道了，我非常想听到这个消息。”

‘Very well, then, come on. It’s a secret, and if I tell you, you must tell me yours.’
‘很好，那么，来吧。这是一个秘密，如果我告诉你，你也必须告诉我你的秘密。”

‘I haven’t got any,’ began Jo, but stopped suddenly, remembering that she had.
“我什么都没有，”乔开口说道，但突然停了下来，因为她想起了自己有。

‘You know you have—you can’t hide anything, so up and fess, or I won’t tell,’ cried Laurie.
“你知道你已经——你不能隐瞒任何事情，所以坦白吧，否则我不会告诉你的，”劳里喊道。

‘Is your secret a nice one?’
“你的秘密很好吗？”

‘Oh, isn’t it! All about people you know, and such fun! You ought to hear it, and I’ve been aching to tell it this long time. Come, you begin.’
‘哦，不是吗！都是关于你认识的人的，非常有趣！你应该听听，我已经很想告诉你了。来吧，你开始吧。

‘You’ll not say anything about it at home, will you?’
“你不会在家里谈论这件事，是吗？”

‘Not a word.’
“一句话也没有。”

‘And you won’t tease me in private?’
“你不会私下取笑我吗？”

‘I never tease.’
“我从来不开玩笑。”

‘Yes, you do. You get everything you want out of people. I don’t know how you do it, but you are a born wheedler.’
'是的你是。你可以从人们那里得到你想要的一切。我不知道你是怎么做到的，但你是个天生的骗子。”

‘Thank you. Fire away.’
'谢谢。开火吧。

‘Well, I’ve left two stories with a newspaperman, and he’s to give his answer next week,’ whispered Jo, in her confidant’s ear.
“好吧，我给一位新闻记者留下了两个故事，他下周就会给出答案，”乔在她知己的耳边低声说道。

‘Hurrah for Miss March, the celebrated American authoress!’ cried Laurie, throwing up his hat and catching it again, to the great delight of two ducks, four cats, five hens, and half a dozen Irish children, for they were out of the city now. ‘Hush! It won’t come to anything, I dare say, but I couldn’t rest till I had tried, and I said nothing about it because I didn’t want anyone else to be disappointed.’
“为美国著名女作家马奇小姐万岁！”劳里高喊着，一边抛起帽子，一边又接住，这让两只鸭子、四只猫、五只母鸡和六名爱尔兰孩子非常高兴，因为他们已经脱离了现在的城市。 ‘嘘！我敢说，这不会有任何结果，但在我尝试之前我无法休息，我对此什么也没说，因为我不想让其他人失望。

‘It won’t fail. Why, Jo, your stories are works of Shakespeare compared to half the rubbish that is published every day. Won’t it be fun to see them in print, and shan’t we feel proud of our authoress?’
‘它不会失败。为什么，乔，与每天出版的一半垃圾相比，你的故事是莎士比亚的作品。看到它们被印刷出来不是很有趣吗？我们难道不会为我们的女作家感到自豪吗？

Jo’s eyes sparkled, for it is always pleasant to be believed in, and a friend’s praise is always sweeter than a dozen newspaper puffs.
乔的眼睛闪闪发光，因为被相信总是令人愉快的，朋友的赞美总是比十几张报纸更甜蜜。

‘Where’s your secret? Play fair, Teddy, or I’ll never believe you again,’ she said, trying to extinguish the brilliant hopes that blazed up at a word of encouragement.
‘你的秘密在哪里？公平竞争，泰迪，否则我再也不会相信你了。”她说道，试图浇灭因一句鼓励的话而燃起的灿烂希望。

‘I may get into a scrape for telling, but I didn’t promise not to, so I will, for I never feel easy in my mind till I’ve told you any plummy bit of news I get. I know where Meg’s glove is.’
“我可能会因为告诉你而陷入困境，但我没有承诺不这样做，所以我会的，因为在我告诉你我得到的任何好消息之前，我的心里永远不会感到轻松。我知道梅格的手套在哪里。

‘Is that all? said Jo, looking disappointed, as Laurie nodded and twinkled with a face full of mysterious intelligence.
'这就是全部？乔一脸失望地说，劳里点点头，脸上闪烁着神秘的智慧。

‘It’s quite enough for the present, as you’ll agree when I tell you where it is.’
“目前来说就足够了，当我告诉你它在哪里时，你就会同意的。”

‘Tell, then.’
“那就说吧。”

Laurie bent, and whispered three words in Jo’s ear, which produced a comical change. She stood and stared at him for a minute, looking both surprised and displeased, then walked on, saying sharply, ‘How do you know?’
劳里弯下腰，在乔耳边低声说了三个字，这产生了滑稽的变化。她站着，盯着他看了一会儿，看上去既惊讶又不悦，然后继续走，尖锐地说：“你怎么知道？”

‘Saw it.’
'看到了。'

‘Where?’
'在哪里？'

‘Pocket.’
'口袋。'

‘All this time?’
'一直以来？'

‘Yes, isn’t that romantic?’
“是啊，这不是很浪漫吗？”

‘No, it’s horrid.’
“不，这太可怕了。”

‘Don’t you like it?’
“你不喜欢吗？”

‘Of course I don’t. It’s ridiculous, it won’t be allowed. My patience! What would Meg say?’
“我当然不这么认为。这是可笑的，这是不会被允许的。我的耐心！梅格会说什么？

‘You are not to tell anyone. Mind that.’
‘你不可以告诉任何人。请注意这一点。

‘I didn’t promise.’
“我没有答应。”

‘That was understood, and I trusted you.’
“这是可以理解的，我信任你。”

‘Well, I won’t for the present, anyway, but I’m disgusted, and wish you hadn’t told me.’
“好吧，无论如何，我现在不会，但我很恶心，希望你没有告诉我。”

‘I thought you’d be pleased.’
“我以为你会高兴的。”

‘At the idea of anybody coming to take Meg away? No, thank you.’
“想到有人来把梅格带走吗？不，谢谢。'

‘You’ll feel better about it when somebody comes to take you away.’
“当有人来带你走时，你会感觉好一点。”

‘I’d like to see anyone try it,’ cried Jo fiercely.
“我希望看到有人尝试一下，”乔激烈地喊道。

‘So should I!’ And Laurie chuckled at the idea.
“我也应该这么做！”劳里听到这个想法笑了。

‘I don’t think secrets agree with me, I feel rumpled up in my mind since you told me that,’ said Jo rather ungratefully.
“我觉得秘密不适合我，自从你告诉我这些以来，我的脑子里一片混乱。”乔相当忘恩负义地说。

‘Race down this hill with me, and you’ll be all right,’ suggested Laurie.
“和我一起跑下这座山，你就会没事的，”劳里建议道。

No one was in sight, the smooth road sloped invitingly before her, and finding the temptation irresistible, Jo darted away, soon leaving hat and comb behind her and scattering hairpins as she ran. Laurie reached the goal first and was quite satisfied with the success of his treatment, for his Atalanta came panting up with flying hair, bright eyes, ruddy cheeks, and no signs of dissatisfaction in her face.
看不见任何人，平坦的道路在她面前倾斜，吸引着她，乔发现诱惑无法抗拒，便飞奔而去，很快就把帽子和梳子留在了身后，发夹在奔跑时散落一地。劳里率先到达了目的地，对自己的治疗成功相当满意，因为他的亚特兰大气喘吁吁地走了过来，头发飞扬，眼睛明亮，脸颊红润，脸上没有任何不满的迹象。

‘I wish I was a horse, then I could run for miles in this splendid air, and not lose my breath. It was capital, but see what a guy it’s made me. Go, pick up my things, like a cherub, as you are,’ said Jo, dropping down under a maple tree, which was carpeting the bank with crimson leaves.
“我希望我是一匹马，这样我就可以在这灿烂的空气中奔跑数英里，而不会失去呼吸。这是资本，但看看它让我成为了一个什么样的人。去，把我的东西捡起来，像个小天使一样，就像你一样。”乔一边说着，一边在一棵枫树下蹲下来，河岸上的枫叶铺满了枫树。

Laurie leisurely departed to recover the lost property, and Jo bundled up her braids, hoping no one would pass by till she was tidy again. But someone did pass, and who should it be but Meg, looking particularly ladylike in her state and festival suit, for she had been making calls.
劳里悠闲地离开去取回丢失的财产，乔把她的辫子包起来，希望在她恢复整洁之前不会有人经过。但确实有人经过了，除了梅格之外，应该是谁呢？她穿着正式和节日的服装，看起来特别淑女，因为她一直在打电话。

‘What in the world are you doing here?’ she asked, regarding her disheveled sister with well-bred surprise.
“你到底来这里做什么？”她问道，带着有教养的惊讶看着她衣冠不整的妹妹。

‘Getting leaves,’ meekly answered Jo, sorting the rosy handful she had just swept up.
“去拿叶子。”乔温顺地回答，一边整理着她刚刚扫过的一把玫瑰色的叶子。

‘And hairpins,’ added Laurie, throwing half a dozen into Jo’s lap. ‘They grow on this road, Meg, so do combs and brown straw hats.’
“还有发夹，”劳里补充道，一边把半打发夹扔到乔的腿上。 “梅格，它们长在这条路上，梳子和棕色草帽也长在这条路上。”

‘You have been running, Jo. How could you? When will you stop such romping ways?’ said Meg reprovingly, as she settled her cuffs and smoothed her hair, with which the wind had taken liberties.
“你一直在跑步，乔。你怎么能？ “你什么时候才能停止这种嬉戏的方式？”梅格一边责备地说，一边整理好袖口，抚平被风随意摆弄的头发。

‘Never till I’m stiff and old and have to use a crutch. Don’t try to make me grow up before my time, Meg. It’s hard enough to have you change all of a sudden. Let me be a little girl as long as I can.’
“除非我身体僵硬、老了、不得不使用拐杖，否则永远不会。”别试图让我提前长大，梅格。让你突然改变已经够难的了。让我尽可能地当个小女孩吧。

As she spoke, Jo bent over the leaves to hide the trembling of her lips, for lately she had felt that Margaret was fast getting to be a woman, and Laurie’s secret made her dread the separation which must surely come some time and now seemed very near. He saw the trouble in her face and drew Meg’s attention from it by asking quickly, ‘Where have you been calling, all so fine?’
说话时，乔俯身在树叶上，掩饰嘴唇的颤抖，因为最近她觉得玛格丽特很快就变成了一个女人，而劳里的秘密让她害怕分离，这种分离肯定会在某个时候到来，现在看来非常严重。靠近。他看到了她脸上的烦恼，并迅速问道：“一切都很好，你去哪儿了？”以吸引梅格的注意力。

‘At the Gardiners’, and Sallie has been telling me all about Belle Moffat’s wedding. It was very splendid, and they have gone to spend the winter in Paris. Just think how delightful that must be!’
“在嘉丁纳”，莎莉一直在告诉我有关贝尔·莫法特婚礼的一切。天气非常好，他们去巴黎过冬了。想想看，那该是多么令人愉快啊！

‘Do you envy her, Meg?’ said Laurie.
“你羡慕她吗，梅格？”劳里说。

‘I’m afraid I do.’
“恐怕是的。”

‘I’m glad of it!’ muttered Jo, tying on her hat with a jerk.
“我很高兴！”乔嘟囔道，猛地系上帽子。

‘Why?’ asked Meg, looking surprised.
“为什么？”梅格问道，看上去很惊讶。

‘Because if you care much about riches, you will never go and marry a poor man,’ said Jo, frowning at Laurie, who was mutely warning her to mind what she said.
“因为如果你太在乎财富，你就永远不会嫁给一个穷人，”乔皱着眉头看着劳里说道，而劳里则无声地警告她要注意自己所说的话。

‘I shall never ‘go and marry’ anyone,’ observed Meg, walking on with great dignity while the others followed, laughing, whispering, skipping stones, and ‘behaving like children’, as Meg said to herself, though she might have been tempted to join them if she had not had her best dress on.
“我永远不会‘去嫁给’任何人，”梅格说，她带着极大的尊严继续前行，其他人跟在后面，笑着、窃窃私语、跳着石头，“表现得像个孩子”，正如梅格对自己说的那样，尽管她可能已经如果她没有穿上最好的衣服，她就会想加入他们。

For a week or two, Jo behaved so queerly that her sisters were quite bewildered. She rushed to the door when the postman rang, was rude to Mr. Brooke whenever they met, would sit looking at Meg with a woe-begone face, occasionally jumping up to shake and then kiss her in a very mysterious manner. Laurie and she were always making signs to one another, and talking about ‘Spread Eagles’ till the girls declared they had both lost their wits. On the second Saturday after Jo got out of the window, Meg, as she sat sewing at her window, was scandalized by the sight of Laurie chasing Jo all over the garden and finally capturing her in Amy’s bower. What went on there, Meg could not see, but shrieks of laughter were heard, followed by the murmur of voices and a great flapping of newspapers.
一两周以来，乔的行为都很奇怪，以至于她的姐妹们都感到很困惑。当邮递员按铃时，她就冲到门口，每次见面时对布鲁克先生都很粗鲁，她会坐着一脸悲伤地看着梅格，偶尔跳起来与她握手，然后以一种非常神秘的方式吻她。劳里和她总是互相打手势，谈论“展鹰”，直到女孩们宣称她们都失去了理智。乔走出窗户后的第二个星期六，梅格坐在窗前做针线活，看到劳里在花园里追着乔，最后在艾米的凉亭里抓住了她，她感到很震惊。梅格看不到那里发生了什么，但听到了尖叫声，接着是低声说话声和报纸的剧烈拍打声。

‘What shall we do with that girl? She never will behave like a young lady,’ sighed Meg, as she watched the race with a disapproving face.
‘我们该拿那个女孩怎么办？她永远不会表现得像一个年轻的女士，”梅格叹了口气，她一脸不以为然地看着比赛。

‘I hope she won’t. She is so funny and dear as she is,’ said Beth, who had never betrayed that she was a little hurt at Jo’s having secrets with anyone but her.
‘我希望她不会。她是如此有趣和可爱，”贝丝说，她从未透露过，因为乔对除了她之外的任何人都有秘密，她感到有点受伤。

‘It’s very trying, but we never can make her commy la fo,’ added Amy, who sat making some new frills for herself, with her curls tied up in a very becoming way., two agreeable things that made her feel unusually elegant and ladylike.
“这很困难，但我们永远无法让她变得像拉福（commy la fo）”，艾米补充道，她坐在那儿为自己做一些新的装饰，她的卷发扎得非常合适。 两件令人愉快的事情让她感觉异常优雅，淑女般的。

In a few minutes Jo bounced in, laid herself on the sofa, and affected to read.
几分钟后，乔跳了进来，躺在沙发上，假装看书。

‘Have you anything interesting there?’ asked Meg, with condescension.
“你们那里有什么有趣的东西吗？”梅格居高临下地问道。

‘Nothing but a story, won’t amount to much, I guess,’ returned Jo, carefully keeping the name of the paper out of sight.
“我想，只不过是一个故事，没什么意义。”乔回答道，小心翼翼地把报纸的名字藏在看不见的地方。

‘You’d better read it aloud. That will amuse us and keep you out of mischief,’ said Amy in her most grown-up tone.
‘你最好大声读出来。这会让我们开心，也能让你免于恶作剧。”艾米用她最成熟的语气说道。

‘What’s the name?’ asked Beth, wondering why Jo kept her face behind the sheet.
“叫什么名字？”贝丝问，她想知道为什么乔把脸藏在床单后面。

‘The Rival Painters.’
“画家竞争对手”。

‘That sounds well. Read it,’ said Meg.
‘听起来不错。读一下吧，”梅格说。

With a loud ‘Hem!’ and a long breath, Jo began to read very fast. The girls listened with interest, for the tale was romantic, and somewhat pathetic, as most of the characters died in the end. ‘I like that about the splendid picture,’ was Amy’s approving remark, as Jo paused.
乔大声“哼”了一声，长长地吸了一口气，开始读得很快。女孩们饶有兴趣地听着，因为这个故事很浪漫，但也有些可悲，因为大多数角色最后都死了。 “我喜欢这张精彩的照片，”乔停了下来，艾米赞许地说。

‘I prefer the lovering part. Viola and Angelo are two of our favorite names, isn’t that queer?’ said Meg, wiping her eyes, for the lovering part was tragical.
“我更喜欢充满爱的部分。维奥拉和安杰洛是我们最喜欢的两个名字，这不是很奇怪吗？”梅格擦着眼睛说道，因为爱情的部分是悲剧性的。

‘Who wrote it?’ asked Beth, who had caught a glimpse of Jo’s face.
“这是谁写的？”贝丝问道，她瞥见了乔的脸。

The reader suddenly sat up, cast away the paper, displaying a flushed countenance, and with a funny mixture of solemnity and excitement replied in a loud voice, ‘Your sister.’
读书人突然坐了起来，扔掉了报纸，脸色涨得通红，带着一种庄严又激动的滑稽声音，大声回答道：“你姐姐。”

‘You?’ cried Meg, dropping her work.
“你？”梅格放下手中的工作喊道。

‘It’s very good,’ said Amy critically.
“这很好，”艾米批评道。

‘I knew it! I knew it! Oh, my Jo, I am so proud!’ And Beth ran to hug her sister and exult over this splendid success.
'我就知道！我就知道！哦，我的乔，我太自豪了！”贝丝跑过去拥抱她的妹妹，为这一辉煌的成功而欣喜若狂。

Dear me, how delighted they all were, to be sure! How Meg wouldn’t believe it till she saw the words. ‘Miss Josephine March,’ actually printed in the paper. How graciously Amy critisized the artistic parts of the story, and offered hints for a sequel, which unfortunately couldn’t be carried out, as the hero and heroine were dead. How Beth got excited, and skipped and sang with joy. How Hannah came in to exclaim, ‘Sakes alive, well I never!’ in great astonishment at ‘that Jo’s doin’s’. How proud Mrs. March was when she knew it. How Jo laughed, with tears in her eyes, as she declared she might as well be a peacock and done with it. and how th ‘Spread Eagle’ might be said to flap his wings triumphantly over the House of March, as the paper passed from hand to hand.
亲爱的我，当然，他们都很高兴！梅格在看到这句话之前怎么也不敢相信。报纸上实际上印着“约瑟芬·马奇小姐”。艾米非常客气地批评了故事的艺术部分，并为续集提供了暗示，但不幸的是，由于男女主人公都死了，续集无法实施。贝丝多么兴奋，高兴地又蹦又唱。汉娜走进来时惊呼：“天啊，我从来没有！”对“乔的所作所为”感到非常惊讶。当马奇夫人知道这一点时，她感到多么自豪啊！乔笑得眼里含着泪水，她宣称她还不如做一只孔雀，就这样了。当报纸从一个手中传到另一个手中时，“展开的雄鹰”可以说是在三月议院上空胜利地扇动翅膀。

‘Tell us about it.’ ‘When did it come?’ ‘How much did you get for it?’ ‘What will Father say?’ ‘Won’t Laurie laugh?’ cried the family, all in one breath as they clustered about Jo, for these foolish, affectionate people mad a jubilee of every little household joy.
“告诉我们这件事吧。”“它什么时候来的？”“你买了多少钱？”“父亲会说什么？”“劳里不会笑吗？”一家人聚集在一起，齐声喊道。关于乔，这些愚蠢而深情的人们为每一个小小的家庭欢乐而疯狂。

‘Stop jabbering, girls, and I’ll tell you everything,’ said Jo, wondering if Miss Burney felt any grander over her Evilina than she did over her ‘Rival Painters’. Having told how she disposed of her tales, Jo added, ‘And when I went to get my answer, the man said he liked them both, but didn’t pay beginners, only let them print in his paper, and noticed the stories. It was good practice, he said, and when the beginners improved, anyone would pay. So I let him have the two stories, and today this was sent to me, and Laurie caught me with it and insisted on seeing it, so I let him. And he said it was good, and I shall write more, and he’s going to get the next paid for, and I am so happy, for in time I may be able to support myself and help the girls.’
“别胡言乱语了，姑娘们，我会告诉你们一切的。”乔说道，她想知道伯尼小姐对她的《伊维丽娜》的感觉是否比对她的“画家对手”的感觉更伟大。在讲述了她如何处理她的故事后，乔补充道，“当我去寻求答案时，那个人说他两个都喜欢，但没有付钱给初学者，只让他们在他的报纸上发表，并注意到这些故事。他说，这是很好的做法，当初学者进步时，任何人都会付费。所以我让他有这两个故事，今天这个被发给我了，劳里发现我拿着它并坚持要看，所以我让他了。他说这很好，我会写更多，他会得到下一篇的报酬，我很高兴，因为到时候我也许能够养活自己并帮助女孩们。

Jo’s breath gave out here, and wrapping her head in the paper, she bedewed her little story with a few natural tears, for to be independent and earn the praise of those she loved were the dearest wishes of her heart, and this seemed to be the first step toward that happy end.
乔的呼吸到了这里，她把头裹在纸里，在她的小故事上沾上几滴自然的泪水，因为独立并赢得她所爱的人的赞扬是她内心最深切的愿望，而这似乎是迈向幸福结局的第一步。

CHAPTER FIFTEEN
第十五章

‘November is the most disagreeable month in the whole year,’ said Margaret, standing at the window one dull afternoon, looking out at the frostbitten garden.
“十一月是一年中最难受的月份，”玛格丽特在一个阴沉的下午站在窗前，看着窗外冻伤的花园说道。

‘That’s the reason I was born in it,’ observed Jo pensively, quite unconscious of the blot on her nose.
“这就是我出生在这个地方的原因，”乔若有所思地说道，完全没有意识到她鼻子上的污点。

‘If something very pleasant should happen now, we should think it a delightful month,’ said Beth, who took a hopeful view of everything, even November.
“如果现在发生了一些非常令人愉快的事情，我们应该认为这是一个令人愉快的月份，”贝丝说，她对一切都抱有希望，即使是十一月。

‘I dare say, but nothing pleasant ever does happen in this family,’ said Meg, who was out of sorts. ‘We go grubbing along day after day, without a bit of change, and very little fun. We might as well be in a treadmill.’
“我敢说，但是这个家里从来没有发生过什么令人愉快的事，”心情不好的梅格说道。 “我们日复一日地苦苦挣扎，没有一点改变，也没有什么乐趣。我们还不如在跑步机上。

‘My patience, how blue we are!’ cried Jo. ‘I don’t much wonder, poor dear, for you see other girls having splendid times, while you grind, grind, year in and year out. Oh, don’t I wish I could manage things for you as I do for my heroines! You’re pretty enough and good enough already, so I’d have some rich relation leave you a fortune unexpectedly. Then you’d dash out as an heiress, scorn everyone who has slighted you, go abroad, and come home my Lady Something in a blaze of splendor and elegance.’
“我的耐心，我们多么忧郁啊！”乔喊道。 “我并不奇怪，可怜的亲爱的，因为你看到其他女孩过着美好的时光，而你却年复一年地苦苦挣扎。哦，我难道不希望我能像为我的女英雄们做事一样为你做事吗！你已经够漂亮了，够优秀了，我会有一个有钱的亲戚意外地给你留下一笔财富。然后你就会以女继承人的身份冲出去，蔑视所有轻视你的人，出国，然后带着光彩和优雅回到我的夫人。

‘People don’t have fortunes left them in that style nowadays, men have to work and women marry for money. It’s a dreadfully unjust world,’ said Meg bitterly.
“现在人们的财富不再像以前那样了，男人必须工作，女人为了钱而结婚。这是一个极其不公正的世界。”梅格痛苦地说。

‘Jo and I are going to make fortunes for you all. Just wait ten years, and see if we don’t,’ said Amy, who sat in a corner making mud pies, as Hannah called her little clay models of birds, fruit, and faces.
‘乔和我将为你们大家发财。等十年，看看我们是否不这样做，”艾米说，她坐在角落里做泥馅饼，汉娜称她为鸟类、水果和面孔的小粘土模型。

‘Can’t wait, and I’m afraid I haven’t much faith in ink and dirt, though I’m grateful for your good intentions.
‘等不及了，恐怕我对墨水和泥土不太有信心，尽管我很感激你的好意。

Meg sighed, and turned to the frostbitten garden again. Jo groaned and leaned both elbows on the table in a despondent attitude, but Amy spatted away energetically, and Beth, who sat at the other window, said, smiling, ‘Two pleasant things are going to happen right away. Marmee is coming down the street, and Laurie is tramping through the garden as if he had something nice to tell.’
梅格叹了口气，再次转向冻伤的花园。乔呻吟着，双肘撑在桌子上，一副沮丧的样子，艾米却用力地吐了口唾沫，坐在另一扇窗户的贝丝微笑着说：“马上就有两件愉快的事情发生了。”妈妈正沿着街道走来，劳里正在花园里踱着步，好像有什么好话要讲。

In they both came, Mrs. March with her usual question, ‘Any letter from Father, girls?’ and Laurie to say in his persuasive way, ‘Won’t some of you come for a drive? I’ve been working away at mathematics till my head is in a muddle, and I’m going to freshen my wits by a brisk turn. It’s a dull day, but the air isn’t bad, and I’m going to take Brooke home, so it will be gay inside, if it isn’t out. Come, Jo, you and Beth will go, won’t you?’
她们俩都来了，马奇太太用她惯常的问题问：“女儿们，有父亲来信吗？”劳里用他有说服力的方式说：“你们中的一些人不来开车兜风吗？我一直在埋头研究数学，直到我的头脑一片混乱，我要通过一个快速的转变来恢复我的智慧。今天是沉闷的一天，但空气还不错，而且我要带布鲁克回家，所以如果不出去的话，里面会很快乐。来吧，乔，你和贝丝会去，不是吗？

‘Of course we will.’
“我们当然会。”

‘Much obliged, but I’m busy.’ And Meg whisked out her workbasket, for she had agreed with her mother that it was best, for her at least, not to drive too often with the young gentleman.
“非常感谢，但我很忙。”梅格迅速拿出工作篮，因为她同意母亲的意见，最好不要经常和这位年轻绅士一起开车，至少对她来说是这样。

‘We three will be ready in a minute,’ cried Amy, running away to wash her hands.
“我们三个人马上就准备好，”艾米喊道，跑开去洗手。

‘Can I do anything for you, Madam Mother?’ asked Laurie, leaning over Mrs. March’s chair with the affectionate look and tone he always gave her.
“我能为您做点什么吗，母亲女士？”劳里靠在马奇太太的椅子上问道，脸上的表情和语气都是他一贯对她充满感情的。

‘No, thank you, except call at the office, if you’ll be so kind, dear. It’s our day for a letter, and the postman hasn’t been. Father is as regular as the sun, but there’s some delay on the way, perhaps.’
“不，谢谢你，除非你能这么好心，给办公室打电话，亲爱的。”今天是我们写信的日子，而邮递员却没有。父亲像太阳一样规律，但也许路上有些延误。”

A sharp ring interrupted her, and a minute after Hannah came in with a letter.
一声尖锐的铃声打断了她，一分钟后汉娜带着一封信进来了。

‘It’s one of them horrid telegraph things, mum,’ she said, handling it as if she was afraid it would explode and do some damage.
“这是可怕的电报装置之一，妈妈，”她一边说，一边处理着它，就好像她担心它会爆炸并造成一些损害。

At the word ‘telegraph’, Mrs. March snatched it, read the two lines it contained, and dropped back into her chair as white as if the little paper had sent a bullet to her heart. Laurie dashed downstairs for water, while Meg and Hannah supported her, and Jo read aloud, in a frightened voice...
听到“电报”这个词，马奇夫人一把抓起它，读了其中的两行内容，然后坐回椅子上，脸色苍白，仿佛这张小纸朝她的心脏发射了一颗子弹。劳里冲下楼去拿水，梅格和汉娜扶着她，乔用惊恐的声音大声朗读……

Mrs. March:
马奇夫人：

Your husband is very ill. Come at once.
你丈夫病得很重。赶紧来吧。

S. HALE
塞·黑尔

Blank Hospital, Washington.
华盛顿布兰克医院。

How still the room was as they listened breathlessly, how strangely the day darkened outside, and how suddenly the whole world seemed to change, as the girls gathered about their mother, feeling as if all the happiness and support of their lives was about to be taken from them.
她们气喘吁吁地听着，房间里多么安静，外面的天多么奇怪地暗了下来，整个世界似乎突然发生了变化，女孩们聚集在她们的母亲身边，感觉她们生命中所有的幸福和支持都即将消失。从他们那里夺走的。

Mrs. March was herself again directly, read the message over, and stretched out her arms to her daughters, saying, in a tone they never forgot, ‘I shall go at once, but it may be too late. Oh, children, children, help me to bear it!’
马奇夫人又恢复了正常，读完信息，向女儿们伸出双臂，用她们永远不会忘记的语气说：“我马上就走，但可能已经太晚了。”噢，孩子们，孩子们，帮我承受吧！”

For several minutes there was nothing but the sound of sobbing in the room, mingled with broken words of comfort, tender assurances of help, and hopeful whispers that died away in tears. Poor Hannah was the first to recover, and with unconscious wisdom she set all the rest a good example, for with her, work was panacea for most afflictions.
有好几分钟，房间里只有抽泣的声音，夹杂着断断续续的安慰话语、温柔的帮助保证，以及充满希望的低语，最后在泪水中消失。可怜的汉娜是第一个康复的人，她凭借无意识的智慧为其他人树立了一个好榜样，因为对她来说，工作是解决大多数痛苦的灵丹妙药。

‘The Lord keep the dear man! I won’t waste no time a-cryin’, but git your things ready right away, mum,’ she said heartily, as she wiped her face on her apron, gave her mistress a warm shake of the hand with her own hard one, and went away to work like three women in one.
‘愿主保佑我亲爱的人！我不会浪费时间哭，但马上把你的东西准备好，妈妈，”她衷心地说，同时用围裙擦了擦脸，用自己坚硬的手温暖地握了握女主人的手。 ，然后像三个女人合而为一地去上班。

‘She’s right, there’s no time for tears now. Be calm, girls, and let me think.’
“她是对的，现在没有时间流泪。”冷静点，女孩们，让我想想。”

They tried to be calm, poor things, as their mother sat up, looking pale but steady, and put away her grief to think and plan for them.
可怜的孩子们，他们试图保持冷静，而他们的母亲则坐了起来，脸色苍白，但很镇定，收起了悲伤，为他们思考和计划。

‘Where’s Laurie?’ she asked presently, when she had collected her thoughts and decided on the first duties to be done.
“劳里在哪里？”当她整理思绪并决定要完成的首要任务时，她问道。

‘Here, ma’am. Oh, let me do something!’ cried the boy, hurrying from the next room whither he had withdrawn, feeling that their first sorrow was too sacred for even his friendly eyes to see.
‘在这里，女士。哦，让我做点什么吧！”男孩喊道，从他退出的隔壁房间里匆匆跑出来，他觉得他们第一次的悲伤太神圣了，连他友善的眼睛都无法看到。

‘Send a telegram saying I will come at once. The next train goes early in the morning. I’ll take that.’
‘发个电报说我马上来。下一趟火车一大早就出发。我会接受的。

‘What else? The horses are ready. I can go anywhere, do anything,’ he said, looking ready to fly to the ends of the earth.
'还有什么？马匹已经准备好了。我可以去任何地方，做任何事情。”他说道，看上去已经准备好飞往天涯海角了。

‘Leave a note at Aunt March’s. Jo, give me that pen and paper.’
“在马奇姨妈家留张纸条。乔，把笔和纸给我。”

Tearing off the blank side of one of her newly copied pages, Jo drew the table before her mother, well knowing that money for the long, sad journey must be borrowed, and feeling as if she could do anything to add to a little to the sum for her father.
乔撕下新复印的一页的空白面，把桌子画在母亲面前，她清楚地知道必须借钱来支付这趟漫长而悲伤的旅程，并且觉得自己可以做任何事情来为母亲的母亲增添一些东西。给她父亲的总和。

‘Now go, dear, but don’t kill yourself driving at a desperate pace. There is no need of that.’
‘现在走吧，亲爱的，但不要拼命开车自杀。没有必要那样。

Mrs. March’s warning was evidently thrown away, for five minutes later Laurie tore by the window on his own fleet horse, riding as if for his life.
马奇夫人的警告显然被抛弃了，五分钟后，劳里骑着自己的快马，撕开窗户，骑着，仿佛是为了救命。

‘Jo, run to the rooms, and tell Mrs. King that I can’t come. On the way get these things. I’ll put them down, they’ll be needed and I must go prepared for nursing. Hospital stores are not always good. Beth, go and ask Mr. Laurence for a couple of bottles of old wine. I’m not too proud to beg for Father. He shall have the best of everything. Amy, tell Hannah to get down the black trunk, and Meg, come and help me find my things, for I’m half bewildered.’
“乔，跑到房间去，告诉金夫人我不能来。”在路上得到这些东西。我会把它们放下，它们会被需要，我必须为护理做好准备。医院商店并不总是好的。贝丝，去向劳伦斯先生要几瓶老酒。我并没有太骄傲而去乞求父亲。他将拥有最好的一切。艾米，告诉汉娜从黑色的箱子里下来，梅格，过来帮我找到我的东西，因为我有点困惑。

Writing, thinking, and directing all at once might well bewilder the poor lady, and Meg begged her to sit quietly in her room for a little while, and let them work. Everyone scattered like leaves before a gust of wind, and the quiet, happy household was broken up as suddenly as if the paper had been an evil spell.
同时写作、思考和导演可能会让这位可怜的女士感到困惑，梅格恳求她在房间里安静地坐一会儿，让他们工作。所有人都像一阵风吹过的落叶一样四散而去，原本平静幸福的家庭就像一张邪恶的符咒一样突然被打破了。

Mr. Laurence came hurrying back with Beth, bringing every comfort the kind old gentleman could think of for the invalid, and friendliest promises of protection for the girls during the mother’s absence, which comforted her very much. There was nothing he didn’t offer, from his own dressing gown to himself as escort. But the last was impossible. Mrs. March would not hear of the old gentleman’s undertaking the long journey, yet an expression of relief was visible when he spoke of it, for anxiety ill fits one for traveling. He saw the look, knit his heavy eyebrows, rubbed his hands, and marched abruptly away, saying he’d be back directly. No one had time to think of him again till, as Meg ran through the entry, with a pair of rubbers in one hand and a cup of tea in the other, she came suddenly upon Mr. Brooke.
劳伦斯先生带着贝丝急匆匆地回来了，他给病人带来了一位善良的老绅士所能想到的一切安慰，并承诺在母亲不在期间保护女儿们，这让她感到非常安慰。从他自己的晨衣到他自己作为护卫，他没有什么不提供的。但最后一个是不可能的。马奇夫人不会听说老先生要进行长途旅行，但当他谈到这件事时，脸上露出一种轻松的表情，因为焦虑不适合旅行。他见状，浓眉一皱，搓了搓手，大步走开，说是直接就回来。没人有时间再想起他，直到梅格一手拿着一双橡皮，另一只手拿着一杯茶跑进入口时，突然遇到了布鲁克先生。

‘I’m very sorry to hear of this, Miss March,’ he said, in the kind, quiet tone which sounded very pleasantly to her perturbed spirit. ‘I came to offer myself as escort to your mother. Mr. Laurence has commissions for me in Washington, and it will give me real satisfaction to be of service to her there.’
“听到这个消息我感到非常遗憾，马奇小姐，”他用温和、安静的语气说道，这对她不安的心灵来说听起来非常愉快。 “我是来护送你母亲的。”劳伦斯先生在华盛顿为我提供了佣金，能够在那里为她服务让我感到非常满意。

Down dropped the rubbers, and the tea was very near following, as Meg put out her hand, with a face so full of gratitude that Mr. Brooke would have felt repaid for a much greater sacrifice than the trifling one of time and comfort which he was about to take.
橡皮球掉了下来，茶马上就到了，梅格伸出了手，脸上充满了感激之情，布鲁克先生会觉得自己付出的牺牲比他所付出的微不足道的时间和舒适要大得多，得到了回报。正要采取。

‘How kind you all are! Mother will accept, I’m sure, and it will be such a relief to know that she has someone to take care of her. Thank you very, very much!’
‘你们真是太好了！我相信，母亲会接受的，而且知道有人照顾她，她会感到很欣慰。非常非常感谢你！'

Meg spoke earnestly, and forgot herself entirely till something in the brown eyes looking down at her made her remember the cooling tea, and lead the way into the parlor, saying she would call her mother.
梅格说得很认真，完全忘记了自己，直到那双棕色的眼睛低头看着她，让她想起了凉茶，然后带路走进客厅，说她要给妈妈打电话。

Everything was arranged by the time Laurie returned with a note from Aunt March, enclosing the desired sum, and a few lines repeating what she had often said before, that she had always told them it was absurd for March to go into the army, always predicted that no good would come of it, and she hoped they would take her advice the next time. Mrs. March put the note in the fire, the money in her purse, and went on with her preparations, with her lips folded tightly in a way which Jo would have understood if she had been there.
当劳里带着马奇姨妈的一张纸条回来时，一切都安排好了，附上所需的金额，还有几行重复她以前经常说的话，她总是告诉他们，马奇参军是荒谬的，总是她预计这样做不会有什么好处，希望他们下次能采纳她的建议。马奇太太把纸条放进火里，把钱放进钱包里，然后继续她的准备工作，她的嘴唇紧紧地闭着，乔如果在场就会明白这一点。

The short afternoon wore away. All other errands were done, and Meg and her mother busy at some necessary needlework, while Beth and Amy goth tea, and Hannah finished her ironing with what she called a ‘slap and a bang’, but still Jo did not come. They began to get anxious, and Laurie went off to find her, for no one knew what freak Jo might take into her head. He missed her, however, and she came walking in with a very queer expression of countenance, for there was a mixture of fun and fear, satisfaction and regret in it, which puzzled the family as much as did the roll of bills she laid before her mother, saying with a little choke in her voice, ‘That’s my contribution toward making Father comfortable and bringing him home!’ ‘My dear, where did you get it? Twenty-five dollars! Jo, I hope you haven’t done anything rash?’
短暂的下午很快就过去了。所有其他差事都完成了，梅格和她的母亲忙着做一些必要的针线活，而贝丝和艾米则喝着哥特茶，汉娜用她所谓的“啪嗒啪嗒”的声音完成了熨烫工作，但乔仍然没有来。他们开始变得焦虑起来，劳里去找她，因为没有人知道乔可能会在她的脑子里想到什么。然而，他想念她，而她走进来时，脸上的表情非常奇怪，因为其中夹杂着乐趣和恐惧、满足和遗憾，这让家人感到困惑，就像她面前的一卷钞票一样她的母亲声音有些哽咽地说：“这是我为让父亲感到舒适并带他回家所做的贡献！”“亲爱的，你从哪里得到的？二十五美元！乔，我希望你没有做任何鲁莽的事？

‘No, it’s mine honestly. I didn’t beg, borrow, or steal it. I earned it, and I don’t think you’ll blame me, for I only sold what was my own.’
‘不，老实说，这是我的。我没有乞讨、借用或偷窃它。这是我应得的，我想你不会责怪我，因为我只卖了我自己的东西。

As she spoke, Jo took off her bonnet, and a general outcry arose, for all her abundant hair was cut short.
当她说话时，乔摘下了帽子，引起了普遍的抗议，因为她所有的头发都被剪短了。

‘Your hair! Your beautiful hair!’ ‘Oh, Jo, how could you? Your one beauty.’ ‘My dear girl, there was no need of this.’ ‘She doesn’t look like my Jo any more, but I love her dearly for it!’
'你的头发！你美丽的头发！”“哦，乔，你怎么能这样？ “我亲爱的女孩，没有必要这样。”“她看起来不再像我的乔了，但我因此深爱着她！”

As everyone exclaimed, and Beth hugged the cropped head tenderly, Jo assumed an indifferent air, which did not deceive anyone a particle, and said, rumpling up the brown bush and trying to look as if she liked it, ‘It doesn’t affect the fate of the nation, so don’t wail, Beth. It will be good for my vanity, I getting too proud of my wig. It will do my brains good to have that mop taken off. My head feels deliciously light and cool, and the barber said I could soon have a curly crop, which will be boyish, becoming, and easy to keep in order. I’m satisfied, so please take the money and let’s have supper.’
当每个人都惊呼起来，贝丝温柔地拥抱着剪短的头时，乔摆出一副漠不关心的神情，这并没有欺骗任何人，她说，揉皱棕色的灌木丛，试图表现出她喜欢它的样子，“这不影响”国家的命运，所以不要哭泣，贝丝。这对我的虚荣心有好处，我对我的假发太自豪了。把拖把拿掉对我的大脑有好处。我的头感觉轻松又凉爽，理发师说我很快就能拥有一头卷发，它会很孩子气，很合身，而且很容易打理。我很满意了，请收下钱，我们去吃晚饭吧。”

‘Tell me all about it, Jo. I am not quite satisfied, but I can’t blame you, for I know how willingly you sacrificed your vanity, as you call it, to your love. But, my dear, it was not necessary, and I’m afraid you will regret it one of these days,’ said Mrs. March.
“告诉我一切，乔。我不太满意，但我不能责怪你，因为我知道你多么愿意为了你的爱而牺牲你的虚荣心。但是，亲爱的，没有必要，我担心有一天你会后悔的。”马奇太太说道。

‘No, I won’t!’ returned Jo stoutly, feeling much relieved that her prank was not entirely condemned.
“不，我不会！”乔坚决地回答，她的恶作剧没有受到完全谴责，这让她松了口气。

‘What made you do it?’ asked Amy, who would as soon have thought of cutting off her head as her pretty hair.
“是什么让你这么做的？”艾米问道，她立刻就想到了要剪掉自己的头和美丽的头发。

‘Well, I was wild to to something for Father,’ replied Jo, as they gathered about the table, for healthy young people can eat even in the midst of trouble. ‘I hate to borrow as much as Mother does, and I knew Aunt March would croak, she always does, if you ask for a ninepence. Meg gave all her quarterly salary toward the rent, and I only got some clothes with mine, so I felt wicked, and was bound to have some money, if I sold the nose off my face to get it.’
“好吧，我很想为父亲做点什么，”当他们围坐在餐桌旁时，乔回答道，因为健康的年轻人即使在困难中也能吃东西。 “我和妈妈一样讨厌借钱，而且我知道如果你要九便士，马奇姨妈会发牢骚，她总是这样。梅格把她所有的季度工资都用来付房租，而我只得到了一些衣服，所以我觉得自己很邪恶，如果我卖掉脸上的鼻子来得到它，肯定会有一些钱。

‘You needn’t feel wicked, my child! You had no winter things and got the simplest with your own hard earnings,’ said Mrs. March with a look that warmed Jo’s heart.
‘你不必感到邪恶，我的孩子！你没有冬天的东西，靠自己辛苦赚来的钱过得最简单。”马奇太太说道，她的眼神让乔心里暖暖的。

‘I hadn’t the least idea of selling my hair at first, but as I went along I kept thinking what I could do, and feeling as if I’d like to dive into some of the rich stores and help myself. In a barber’s window I saw tails of hair with the prices marked, and one black tail, not so thick as mine, was forty dollars. It came to me all of a sudden that I had one thing to make money out of, and without stopping to think, I walked in, asked if they bought hair, and what they would give for mine.’
“一开始我根本没想过要卖掉我的头发，但当我继续做下去时，我一直在想我能做什么，感觉好像我想进入一些富裕的商店自助。在一家理发店的橱窗里，我看到一缕缕发尾，上面标着价格，一根黑色的发尾，没有我的那么粗，售价四十美元。我突然想到我有一个可以赚钱的东西，我没有停下来思考，就走进去，问他们是否买了头发，以及他们愿意为我的头发付出什么。

‘I don’t see how you dared to do it,’ said Beth in a tone of awe.
“我不明白你怎么敢这么做，”贝丝带着敬畏的语气说道。

‘Oh, he was a little man who looked as if he merely lived to oil his hair. He rather stared at first, as if he wasn’t used to having girls bounce into his shop and ask him to buy their hair. He said he didn’t care about mine, it wasn’t the fashionable color, and he never paid much for it in the first place. The work he put it into it made it dear, and so on. It was getting late, and I was afraid if it wasn’t done right away that I shouldn’t have it done at all, and you know when I start to do a thing, I hate to give it up. So I begged him to take it, and told him why I was in such a hurry. It was silly, I dare say, but it changed his mind, for I got rather excited, and told the story in my topsy-turvy way, and his wife heard, and said so kindly, ‘Take it, Thomas, and oblige the young lady. I’d do as much for our Jimmy any day if I had a spire of hair worth selling.’
“哦，他是个小个子，看起来好像只是为了给头发上油而活着。”一开始他只是盯着看，好像他不习惯女孩们冲进他的店里请他买头发。他说他不关心我的，这不是流行的颜色，而且他一开始就没有花太多钱。他投入的工作使它变得珍贵，等等。时间已经很晚了，我担心如果不立即做的话，我根本就不应该做这件事，而且你知道，当我开始做一件事时，我讨厌放弃它。于是我恳求他收下它，并告诉他我为什么这么着急。我敢说，这很愚蠢，但这改变了他的想法，因为我变得相当兴奋，并以颠倒的方式讲述了这个故事，他的妻子听到了，并如此友善地说：“拿走它，托马斯，并答应我的要求。”年轻女子。如果我有一顶值得出售的头发，我随时都会为我们的吉米做同样的事情。

‘Who was Jimmy?’ asked Amy, who liked to have things explained as they went along.
“吉米是谁？”艾米问道，她喜欢在事情进展过程中得到解释。

‘Her son, she said, who was in the army. How friendly such things make strangers feel, don’t they? She talked away all the time the man clipped, and diverted my mind nicely.’
“她的儿子，她说，在军队里。这样的事情让陌生人感到多么友好，不是吗？那个男人剪短头发的时候，她一直在喋喋不休，很好地转移了我的注意力。

‘Didn’t you feel dreadfully when the first cut came?’ asked Meg, with a shiver.
“当第一刀来的时候，你不觉得很可怕吗？”梅格颤抖着问道。

‘I took a last look at my hair while the man got his things, and that was the end of it. I never snivel over trifles like that. I will confess, though, I felt queer when I saw the dear old hair laid out on the table, and felt only the short rough ends of my head. It almost seemed as if I’d an arm or leg off. The woman saw me look at it, and picked out a long lock for me to keep. I’ll give it to you, Marmee, just to remember past glories by, for a crop is so comfortable I don’t think I shall ever have a mane again.’
“当那个人拿到他的东西时，我最后看了一眼我的头发，事情就这样结束了。我从来不会为这样的小事而哭泣。不过，我得承认，当我看到桌上摆着可爱的旧头发，只感觉到我头顶的短而粗糙的末端时，我感到很奇怪。看起来我好像断了一条胳膊或一条腿。那女人见我在看，就挑了一把长锁给我留着。我把它送给你，妈妈，只是为了记住过去的辉煌，因为嗉囊太舒服了，我想我再也不会有鬃毛了。

Mrs. March folded the wavy chestnut lock, and laid it away with a short gray one in her desk. She only said, ‘Thank you, deary,’ but something in her face made the girls change the subject, and talk as cheerfully as they could about Mr. Brooke’s kindness, the prospect of a fine day tomorrow, and the happy times they would have when Father came home to be nursed.
马奇太太把那把栗色的波浪锁折叠起来，和一把灰色的短锁一起放在桌子上。她只说了句“谢谢你，亲爱的”，但她脸上的表情让女孩们改变了话题，尽可能愉快地谈论布鲁克先生的善良、明天美好一天的前景以及她们将要度过的快乐时光。当父亲回家接受护理时。

No one wanted to go to bed when at ten o’clock Mrs. March put by the last finished job, and said, ‘Come girls.’ Beth went to the piano and played the father’s favorite hymn. All began bravely, but broke down one by one till Beth was left alone, singing with all her heart, for to her music was always a sweet consoler.
十点钟，马奇太太把最后一份完成的工作交出来，说道：“来吧，姑娘们。”没人想睡觉。贝丝走到钢琴前，弹奏了父亲最喜欢的赞美诗。一切都勇敢地开始，但一一崩溃，直到只剩下贝丝独自一人，她全心全意地唱歌，因为音乐对她来说总是一种甜蜜的安慰。

‘Go to bed and don’t talk, for we must be up early and shall need all the sleep we can get. Good night, my darlings,’ said Mrs. March, as the hymn ended, for no one cared to try another.
“去睡觉吧，不要说话，因为我们必须早起，需要充分的睡眠。晚安，我的宝贝们，”赞美诗结束时，马奇夫人说，因为没有人愿意再尝试一首。

They kissed her quietly, and went to bed as silently as if the dear invalid lay in the next room. Beth and Amy soon fell asleep in spite of the great trouble, but Meg lay awake, thinking the most serious thoughts she had ever known in her short life. Jo lay motionless, and her sister fancied that she was asleep, till a stifled sob made her exclaim, as she touched a wet cheek...
他们静静地吻了她，然后静静地上床睡觉，就像亲爱的病人躺在隔壁房间一样。尽管遇到了很大的麻烦，贝丝和艾米很快就睡着了，但梅格却醒着，想着她在短暂的一生中所经历过的最严肃的想法。乔一动不动地躺着，她姐姐以为她睡着了，直到她摸着湿漉漉的脸颊时，一声压抑的抽泣让她惊呼起来……

‘Jo, dear, what is it? Are you crying about father?’
‘乔，亲爱的，这是什么？你在为父亲哭泣吗？

‘No, not now.’
“不，现在不行。”

‘What then?’
'然后怎样呢？'

‘My...My hair!’ burst out poor Jo, trying vainly to smother her emotion in the pillow.
“我的……我的头发！”可怜的乔大声说道，徒劳地试图把自己的情绪埋在枕头里。

It did not seem at all comical to Meg, who kissed and caressed the afflicted heroine in the tenderest manner.
对于梅格来说，这似乎一点也不滑稽，她以最温柔的方式亲吻和爱抚着这位痛苦的女主人公。

‘I’m not sorry,’ protested Jo, with a choke. ‘I’d do it again tomorrow, if I could. It’s only the vain part of me that goes and cries in this silly way. Don’t tell anyone, it’s all over now. I thought you were asleep, so I just made a little private moan for my one beauty. How came you to be awake?’
“我不抱歉，”乔哽咽地抗议道。 “如果可以的话，明天我会再做一次。只是我虚荣的部分才会以这种愚蠢的方式哭泣。不要告诉任何人，一切都结束了。我以为你睡着了，所以我只是私下里为我的一个美人发出一点小小的呻吟。你怎么醒了？

‘I can’t sleep, I’m so anxious,’ said Meg.
“我睡不着，我很焦虑，”梅格说。

‘Think about something pleasant, and you’ll soon drop off.’
“想想一些令人愉快的事情，你很快就会消失。”

‘I tried it, but felt wider awake than ever.’
“我尝试过，但感觉比以前更清醒。”

‘What did you think of?’
“你想到了什么？”

‘Handsome faces—eyes particularly,’ answered Meg, smiling to herself in the dark. ‘What color do you like best?’
“英俊的面孔——尤其是眼睛。”梅格回答道，在黑暗中自顾自地微笑着。 “你最喜欢什么颜色？”

‘Brown, that is, sometimes. Blue are lovely.’
“有时候是棕色的。”蓝色很可爱。

Jo, laughed, and Meg sharply ordered her not to talk, then amiably promised to make her hair curl, and fell asleep to dream of living in her castle in the air.
乔笑了，梅格严厉地命令她不要说话，然后和蔼可亲地答应让她卷发，然后睡着了，梦想着住在她的空中城堡里。

The clocks were striking midnight and the rooms were very still as a figure glided quietly from bed to bed, smoothing a coverlet here, settling a pillow there, and pausing to look long and tenderly at each unconscious face, to kiss each with lips that mutely blessed, and to pray the fervent prayers which only mothers utter. As she lifted the curtain to look out into the dreary night, the moon broke suddenly from behind the clouds and shone upon her like a bright, benignant face, which seemed to whisper in the silence,’ Be comforted, dear soul! There is always light behind the clouds.’
午夜的钟声敲响，房间里一片寂静，一个人影静静地从一张床滑到另一张床，这里抚平被单，那里放上枕头，停下来，长久而温柔地看着每一张昏迷不醒的脸，用无声的嘴唇亲吻每一张脸。祝福，并祈祷只有母亲才会发出的热切祈祷。当她掀开窗帘，望向沉闷的夜色时，月亮突然从云层后面破了出来，照在她身上，像一张明亮、慈祥的脸，似乎在寂静中低语：“安慰吧，亲爱的灵魂！”乌云背后总有光明。”

CHAPTER SIXTEEN
第十六章

In the cold gray dawn the sisters lit their lamp and read their chapter with an earnestness never felt before. For now the shadow of a real trouble had come, the little books were full of help and comfort, and as they dressed, they agreed to say goodbye cheerfully and hopefully, and send their mother on her anxious journey unsaddened by tears or complaints from them. Everything seemed very strange when they went down, so dim and still outside, so full of light and bustle within. Breakfast at that early hour seemed odd, and even Hannah’s familiar face looked unnatural as she flew about her kitchen with her nightcap on. The big trunk stood ready in the hall, Mother’s cloak and bonnet lay on the sofa, and Mother herself sat trying to eat, but looking so pale and worn with sleeplessness and anxiety that the girls found it very hard to keep their resolution. Meg’s eyes kept filling in spite of herself, Jo was obliged to hide her face in the kitchen roller more than once, ant the little girls wore a grave, troubled expression, as if sorrow was a new experience to them.
在寒冷的灰色黎明中，姐妹们点燃了灯，以前所未有的认真态度阅读了她们的章节。现在，真正麻烦的阴影已经来临，这些小书充满了帮助和安慰，当他们穿好衣服时，他们同意愉快而充满希望地告别，并送他们的母亲踏上她焦虑的旅程，而不是因为眼泪或抱怨而悲伤。 。当他们下去的时候，一切都显得很奇怪，外面那么昏暗、寂静，里面那么明亮、热闹。这么早吃早餐似乎很奇怪，就连汉娜戴着睡帽在厨房里飞来飞去时，她熟悉的面孔也显得不自然。大厅里已经准备好了大箱子，妈妈的斗篷和帽子放在沙发上，妈妈自己正坐着想吃东西，但她的脸色苍白，因失眠和焦虑而憔悴，女孩们发现很难坚持下去。梅格的眼睛不由自主地充满了泪水，乔不得不不止一次地把脸埋在厨房的滚筒里，而小女孩们则表情严肃、困惑，仿佛悲伤对她们来说是一种新的体验。

Nobody talked much, but as the time drew very near and they sat waiting for the carriage, Mrs. March said to the girls, who were all busied about her, one folding her shawl, another smoothing out the strings of her bonnet, a third putting on her overshoes, and a forth fastening up her travelling bag...
没有人多说话，但随着时间的临近，他们坐着等待马车，马奇太太对女孩们说，她们都在忙着她，一个叠着她的披肩，另一个理平了帽子的绳子，第三个穿上套鞋，然后扣紧旅行包……

‘Children, I leave you to Hannah’s care and Mr. Laurence’s protection. Hannah is faithfulness itself, and our good neighbor will guard you as if you were his own. I have no fears for you, yet I am anxious that you should take this trouble rightly. Don’t grieve and fret when I am gone, or think that you can be idle and comfort yourselves by being idle and trying to forget. Go on with your work as usual, for work is a blessed solace. Hope and keep busy, and whatever happens, remember that you never can be fatherless.’
“孩子们，我把你们交给汉娜照顾，劳伦斯先生保护。”汉娜本身就是忠诚，我们的好邻居会保护你，就像你是他自己的人一样。我并不担心你，但我希望你能正确地对待这个麻烦。不要因为我的离去而悲伤、烦恼，也不要以为你可以闲着，通过闲着、试图忘记来安慰自己。像往常一样继续你的工作，因为工作是一种幸福的安慰。希望并保持忙碌，无论发生什么，记住你永远不会没有父亲。

‘Yes, Mother.’
“是的，妈妈。”

‘Meg, dear, be prudent, watch over your sisters, consult Hannah, and in any perplexity, go to Mr. Laurence. Be patient, Jo, don’t get despondent or do rash things, write to me often, and be my brave girl, ready to help and cheer all. Beth, comfort yourself with your music, and be faithful to the little home duties, and You Amy, help all you can, be obedient, and keep happy safe at home.’
“梅格，亲爱的，要小心，照顾好你的姐妹们，咨询汉娜，如果有任何困惑，就去找劳伦斯先生。”要有耐心，乔，不要沮丧或做鲁莽的事情，经常给我写信，做我勇敢的女孩，准备好帮助和欢呼所有人。贝丝，用你的音乐安慰自己，忠实于小小的家庭义务，艾米，尽你所能，听话，并在家里保持快乐和安全。

‘We will, Mother! We will!’
“我们会的，妈妈！我们将！'

The rattle of an approaching carriage made them all start and listen. That was the hard minute, but the girls stood it well. No one cried, no one ran away or uttered a lamentation, though their hearts were very heavy as they sent loving messages to Father, remembering, as they spoke that it might be too late to deliver them. They kissed their mother quietly, clung about her tenderly, and tried to wave their hands cheerfully when she drove away.
一辆马车驶近的嘎嘎声让他们全都惊了起来，侧耳倾听。那是艰难的时刻，但女孩们都挺过来了。没有人哭泣，没有人逃跑或发出悲痛，尽管他们在向父亲发送爱的信息时心情非常沉重，在他们说话的时候记得可能已经太晚了。他们静静地亲吻母亲，温柔地抱住她，并在她开车离开时高兴地挥手。

Laurie and his grandfather came over to see her off, and Mr. Brooke looked so strong and sensible and kind that the girls christened him ‘Mr. Greatheart’ on the spot.
劳里和他的祖父过来送行，布鲁克先生看上去那么坚强、懂事、善良，女孩们都称他为“劳里先生”。伟大的心”在现场。

‘Goodby, my darlings! God bless and keep us all!’ whispered Mrs. March, as she kissed one dear little face after the other, and hurried into the carriage.
‘再见，我的宝贝们！ “愿上帝保佑我们大家！”马奇太太低声说道，一边亲吻着一张又一张可爱的小脸，然后匆匆走进了马车。

As she rolled away, the sun came out, and looking back, she saw it shining on the group at the gate like a good omen. They saw it also, and smiled and waved their hands, and the last thing she beheld as she turned the corner was the four bright faces, and behind them like a bodyguard, old Mr. Laurence, faithful Hannah, and devoted Laurie.
当她滚开的时候，太阳出来了，她回头一看，只见阳光照在门口的一群人身上，像是一个吉兆。他们也看到了，微笑着挥手，当她转过街角时，她看到的最后一件事是四张明亮的脸，在他们身后像保镖一样的老劳伦斯先生，忠诚的汉娜和忠诚的劳里。

‘How kind everyone is to us!’ she said, turning to find fresh proof of it in the respectful sympathy of the young man’s face.
“每个人都对我们多么友善啊！”她转过身来，从年轻人脸上充满尊敬和同情的表情中找到了新的证据。

‘I don’t see how they can help it,’ returned Mr. Brooke, laughing so infectiously that Mrs. March could not help smiling. And so the journey began with the good omens of sunshine, smiles, and cheerful words.
“我不知道他们怎么能帮得上忙。”布鲁克先生回答道，他的笑声极具感染力，马奇夫人也忍不住笑了。就这样，旅程在阳光、微笑和欢快的话语的好兆头中开始了。

‘I feel as if there had been an earthquake,’ said Jo, as their neighbors went home to breakfast, leaving them to rest and refresh themselves.
“我感觉好像发生了地震，”乔说，当时邻居们回家吃早餐，让他们休息和恢复精神。

‘It seems as if half the house was gone,’ added Meg forlornly.
“看起来好像半个房子都消失了，”梅格悲伤地补充道。

Beth opened her lips to say something, but could only point to the pile of nicely mended hose which lay on Mother’s table, showing that even in her last hurried moments she had thought and worked for them. It was a little thing, but it went straight to their hearts, and in spite of their brave resolutions, they all broke down and cried bitterly.
贝丝张了张嘴想说什么，但只能指着母亲桌子上一堆修补得很好的软管，这表明即使在她最后的匆忙时刻，她也一直在为它们思考和工作。虽然是一件小事，但却直击他们的心，尽管他们有勇敢的决心，但他们都崩溃了，痛哭流涕。

Hannah wisely allowed them to relieve their feelings, and when the shower showed signs of clearing up, she came to the rescue, armed with a coffeepot.
汉娜明智地让他们宣泄情绪，当阵雨有消散的迹象时，她拿着咖啡壶前来救援。

‘Now, ny dear young ladies, remember what your ma said, and don’t fret. Come and have a cup of coffee all round, and then let’s fall to work and be a credit to the family.’
‘现在，亲爱的年轻女士们，记住你们妈妈说的话，不要担心。来喝杯咖啡吧，然后我们就开始工作，为家人争光。”

Coffee was a treat, and Hannah showed great tact in making it that morning. No one could resist her persuasive nods, or the fragrant invitation issuing from the nose of the coffee pot. They drew up to the table, exchanged their handkerchiefs for napkins, and in ten minutes were all right again.
咖啡是一种享受，汉娜那天早上煮咖啡时表现得非常机智。没有人能抗拒她有说服力的点头，或者咖啡壶的鼻子发出的芬芳邀请。他们走到桌边，把手帕换成了餐巾，十分钟后就又好了。

‘Hope and keep busy’, that’s the motto for us, so let’s see who will remember it best. I shall go to Aunt March, as usual. Oh, won’t she lecture though!’ said Jo, as she sipped with returning spirit.
“希望并保持忙碌”，这是我们的座右铭，所以让我们看看谁最能记住这句话。我将像往常一样去马奇姨妈那里。哦，不过她不会讲课吗！”乔一边喝着酒一边说，精神又恢复了。

‘I shall go to my Kings, though I’d much rather stay at home and attend to things here,’ said Meg, wishing she hadn’t made her eyes so red.
“我要去我的国王那里，虽然我更愿意呆在家里处理这里的事情，”梅格说，希望她的眼睛没有那么红。

‘No need of that. Beth and I can keep house perfectly well,’ put in Amy, with an important air. ‘Hannah will tell us what to do, and we’ll have everything nice when you come home,’ added Beth, getting out her mop and dish tub without delay.
‘不需要那个。贝丝和我能把家打理得很好。”艾米神情严肃地说。 “汉娜会告诉我们该怎么做，当你回家时，我们会为你准备好一切，”贝丝补充道，同时立即拿出拖把和洗碗盆。

‘I think anxiety is very interesting,’ observed Amy, eating sugar pensively.
“我认为焦虑很有趣，”艾米若有所思地吃着糖说道。

The girls couldn’t help laughing, and felt better for it, though Meg shook her head at the young lady who could find consolation in a sugar bowl.
女孩们忍不住笑了起来，心里也好受一些，不过梅格对这位能在糖罐里找到安慰的年轻女士摇了摇头。

The sight of the turnovers made Jo sober again, and when the two went out to their daily tasks, they looked sorrowfully back at the window where they were accustomed to see their mother’s face. It was gone, but Beth had remembered the little household ceremony, and there she was, nodding away at them like a rosyfaced mandarin.
看到这些失误，乔又清醒了一些，当两人出去处理日常事务时，他们悲伤地回头望向窗外，他们习惯了看到母亲的脸。它已经消失了，但贝丝记得那个小小的家庭仪式，她就在那里，像红脸官吏一样向他们点头。

‘That’s so like my Beth!’ said Jo, waving her hat, with a grateful face. ‘Goodbye, Meggy, I hope the Kings won’t strain today. Don’t fret about Father, dear,’ she added, as they parted.
“这太像我的贝丝了！”乔挥舞着帽子说道，脸上满是感激。 “再见，梅吉，我希望国王队今天不会紧张。亲爱的，别为父亲担心，”他们分手时她补充道。

‘And I hope Aunt March won’t croak. Your hair is becoming, and it looks very boyish and nice,’ returned Meg, trying not to smile at the curly head, which looked comically small on her tall sister’s shoulders.
“我希望马奇姨妈不会发出嘎嘎声。你的头发很漂亮，看起来很孩子气，很漂亮。”梅格回答道，她努力不去对着那头卷发微笑，因为那头卷发在她高个子姐姐的肩膀上显得小得可笑。

‘That’s my only comfort.’ And, touching her hat a‘ la Laurie, away went Jo, feeling like a shorn sheep on a wintry day.
“这是我唯一的安慰。”然后，乔摸了摸劳里的帽子，离开了，感觉就像冬日里一只剪了毛的羊。

News from their father comforted the girls very much, for though dangerously ill, the presence of the best and tenderest of nurses had already done him good. Mr. Brooke sent a bulletin every day, and as the head of the family, Meg insisted on reading the dispatches, which grew more cheerful as the week passed. At first, everyone was eager to write, and plump envelopes were carefully poked into the letter box by one or other of the sisters, who felt rather important with their Washington correspondence. As one of these packets contained characteristic notes from the party, we will rob an imaginary mail, and read them.
父亲的消息让女儿们感到非常安慰，因为尽管病情危重，但最好、最温柔的护士的出现已经对他有好处了。布鲁克先生每天都会发一份简报，作为一家之主，梅格坚持阅读这些简报，一周过去了，气氛变得更加愉快。一开始，每个人都急于写信，一个或另一个姐妹小心翼翼地将厚厚的信封塞进信箱，她们觉得华盛顿的信件相当重要。由于其中一个数据包包含该党的特征笔记，因此我们将抢劫一封假想的邮件并阅读它们。

My dearest Mother:
我最亲爱的妈妈：

It is impossible to tell you how happy your last letter made us, for the news was so good we couldn’t help laughing and crying over it. How very kind Mr. Brooke is, and how fortunate that Mr. Laurence’s business detains him near you so long, since he is so useful to you and Father. The girls are all as good as gold. Jo helps me with the sewing, and insists on doing all sorts of hard jobs. I should be afraid she might overdo, if I didn’t know her ‘moral fit’ wouldn’t last long. Beth is as regular about her tasks as a clock, and never forgets what you told her. She grieves about Father, and looks sober except when she is at her little piano. Amy minds me nicely, and I take great care of her. She does her own hair, and I am teaching her to make buttonholes and mend her stockings. She tries very hard, and I know you will be pleased with her improvement when you come. Mr. Laurence watches over us like a motherly old hen, as Jo says, and Laurie is very kind and neighborly. He and Jo keep us merry, for we get pretty blue sometimes, and feel like orphans, with you so far away. Hannah is a perfect saint. She does not scold at all, and always calls me Miss Margaret, which is quite proper, you know, and treats me with respect. We are all well and busy, but we long, day and night, to have you back. Give my dearest love to Father, and believe me, ever your own...
无法形容你的上一封信让我们多么高兴，因为这个消息太好了，我们忍不住又笑又哭。布鲁克先生真是太好了，劳伦斯先生的生意让他在你身边呆了这么久，这是多么幸运，因为他对你和父亲如此有用。姑娘们个个都是金子般的。乔帮我缝纫，并坚持做各种艰苦的工作。如果我不知道她的“道德契合”不会持续太久，我应该担心她可能会做得太过分。贝丝像时钟一样有规律地完成她的任务，永远不会忘记你告诉她的事情。她为父亲感到悲伤，除了在她的小钢琴前之外，她看起来很清醒。艾米对我很好，我也很照顾她。她自己做头发，我教她打扣眼和补袜子。她非常努力，我知道当您来时您会对她的进步感到高兴。正如乔所说，劳伦斯先生像慈母般的老母鸡一样照顾着我们，而劳里则非常友善和睦。他和乔让我们保持快乐，因为你离我们那么远，我们有时会变得很忧郁，感觉像孤儿。汉娜是一位完美的圣人。她根本不责骂我，总是叫我玛格丽特小姐，这很恰当，你知道，而且对我很尊重。我们都很好，都很忙，但我们日以继夜地盼着你回来。将我最亲爱的爱献给父亲，并相信我，永远属于你自己......

MEG
乙二醇

This note, prettily written on scented paper, was a great contrast to the next, which was scribbled on a big sheet of thin foreign paper, ornamented with blots and all manner of flourishes and curly-tailed letters.
这张纸条漂亮地写在有香味的纸上，与下一张纸条形成了鲜明的对比，下一张纸条潦草地写在一张薄薄的外国纸上，上面装饰着墨迹、各种花体和卷尾字母。

My precious Marmee:
我亲爱的妈妈：

Three cheers for dear Father! Brooke was a trump to telegraph right off, and let us know the minute he was better. I rushed up garret when the letter came, and tried to thank god for being so good to us, but I could only cry, and say, ‘I’m glad! I’m glad!’ Didn’t that do as well as a regular prayer? For I felt a great many in my heart. We have such funny times, and now I can enjoy them, for everyone is so desperately good, it’s like living in a nest of turtledoves. You’d laugh to see Meg head the table and try to be motherish. She gets prettier every day, and I’m in love with her sometimes. The children are regular archangels, and I— well, I’m Jo, and never shall be anything else. Oh, I must tell you that I came near having a quarrel with Laurie. I freed my mind about a silly little thing, and he was offended. I was right, but didn’t speak as I ought, and he marched home, saying he wouldn’t come again till I begged pardon. I declared I wouldn’t and got mad. It lasted all day. I felt bad and wanted you very much. Laurie and I are both so proud, it’s hard to beg pardon. But I thought he’d come to it, for I was in the right. He didn’t come, and just at night I remembered what you said when Amy fell into the river. I read my little book, felt better, resolved not to let the sun set on my anger, and ran over to tell Laurie I was sorry. I met him at the gate, coming for the same thing. We both laughed, begged each other’s pardon, and felt all good and comfortable again.
为亲爱的父亲欢呼三声！布鲁克非常擅长立即发电报，并在他病情好转时通知我们。收到信后，我冲上阁楼，试图感谢上帝对我们这么好，但我只能哭着说：‘我很高兴！我很高兴！’这不是和普通的祈祷一样有效吗？因为我心里感受到了很多。我们有如此有趣的时光，现在我可以享受它们，因为每个人都非常好，就像生活在斑鸠巢中一样。看到梅格坐在餐桌前并试图表现得像母亲一样，你会笑的。她一天天变得更漂亮，有时我爱上了她。孩子们都是普通的大天使，而我——好吧，我是乔，永远不会是其他任何人。哦，我必须告诉你，我差点和劳里发生争吵。我为一件愚蠢的小事解放了思想，他很生气。我是对的，但没有按我应该说的那样说话，他大步回家，说除非我请求原谅，否则他不会再来。我宣称我不会，然后很生气。它持续了一整天。我感觉很糟糕并且非常想要你。劳里和我都很自豪，很难原谅。但我认为他会这么做，因为我是对的。他没有来，就在晚上我想起了艾米掉进河里时你说的话。我读了我的小书，感觉好多了，决定不让太阳落山我的愤怒，然后跑过去告诉劳里我很抱歉。我在门口遇见了他，也是为了同样的事情而来。我们都笑了，互相请求原谅，又感觉一切都很好、很舒服。

I made a ‘pome’ yesterday, when I was helping Hannah wash, and as Father likes my silly little things, I put it in to amuse him. Give him my lovingest hug that ever was, and kiss yourself a dozen times for your...
昨天我帮汉娜洗衣服的时候做了一个“梨子”，因为父亲喜欢我的愚蠢的小东西，所以我把它放进去逗他开心。给他我有史以来最深情的拥抱，并为你的……亲吻自己十几次。

TOPSY-TURVY JO
颠倒乔

A SONG FROM THE SUDS
来自南方的歌曲


Queen of my tub, I merrily sing,
我的浴缸女王，我欢快地歌唱，

While the white foam rises high,
当白色泡沫高高升起时，

And sturdily wash and rinse and wring,
然后用力清洗、漂洗、拧干，

And fasten the clothes to dry.
并将衣服系紧晾干。

Then out in the free fresh air they swing,
然后他们在自由的新鲜空气中荡秋千，

Under the sunny sky.
晴朗的天空下。


I wish we could wash from out hearts and souls
我希望我们能洗净我们的心灵

The stains of the week away,
一周的污渍消失了，

And let water and air by their magic make
让水和空气发挥魔力

Ourselves as pure as they.
我们自己和他们一样纯洁。

Then on the earth there would be indeed,
那么地球上就真的会有，

A glorious washing day!
美好的洗涤日！


Along the path of a useful life,
沿着有用的人生之路，

Will heartsease ever bloom.
心旷神怡会永远绽放。

The busy mind has no time to think
忙碌的头脑没有时间思考

Of sorrow or care or gloom.
悲伤或关心或忧郁。

And anxious thoughts may be swept away,
焦虑的思绪也许会一扫而空，

As we bravely wield a broom.
当我们勇敢地挥舞扫帚时。


I am glad a task to me is given,
我很高兴给我一个任务，

To labor at day by day,
日复一日地劳作，

For it brings me health and strength and hope,
因为它给我带来健康、力量和希望，

And I cheerfully learn to say,
我高兴地学着说，

‘Head, you may think, Heart, you may feel,
‘头，你可能会想，心，你可能会感觉，

But, Hand, you shall work alway!’
但是，汉德，你要一直工作！”

Dear Mother,
亲爱的妈妈，

There is only room for me to send my love, and some pressed pansies from the root I have been keeping safe in the house for Father to see. I read every morning, try to be good all day, and sing myself to sleep with Father’s tune. I can’t sing ‘LAND OF THE LEAL’ now, it makes me cry. Everyone is very kind, and we are as happy as we can be without you. Amy wants the rest of the page, so I must stop. I didn’t forget to cover the holders, and I wind the clock and air the rooms every day.
这里只有空间让我表达我的爱，还有一些我一直把根部压制的三色堇放在家里，让父亲看看。我每天早上读书，努力一整天都表现良好，然后伴着父亲的曲调唱歌入睡。我现在不能唱《LAND OF THE LEAL》，它让我哭泣。每个人都非常友善，没有你们我们也很开心。艾米想要这一页的其余部分，所以我必须停下来。我没有忘记盖上支架，每天都会给时钟上发条并给房间通风。

Kiss dear Father on the cheek he calls mine. Oh, do come soon to your loving ....
亲吻亲爱的父亲，他称之为我的脸颊。噢，快点来到你的爱人身边吧……

LITTLE BETH
小贝丝

Ma Chere Mamma,
玛切尔妈妈，

We are all well I do my lessons always and never corroberate the girls—Meg says I mean contradick so I put in both words and you can take the properest. Meg is a great comfort to me and lets me have jelly every night at tea its so good for me Jo says because it keeps me sweet tempered. Laurie is not as respeckful as he ought to be now I am almost in my teens, he calls me Chick and hurts my feelings by talking French to me very fast when I say Merci or Bon jour as Hattie King does. The sleeves of my blue dress were all worn out, and Meg put in new ones, but the full front came wrong and they are more blue than the dress. I felt bad but did not fret I bear my troubles well but I do wish Hannah would put more starch in my aprons and have buckwheats every day. Can’t she? Didn’t I make that interrigation point nice? Meg says my punchtuation and spelling are disgraceful and I am mortyfied but dear me I have so many things to do, I can’t stop. Adieu, I send heaps of love to Papa. Your affectionate daughter . ..
我们都很好，我总是上课，从不证实女孩们的观点——梅格说我的意思是矛盾，所以我把这两个词都放进去，你可以采取最合适的。梅格给了我很大的安慰，她让我每天晚上喝茶时喝果冻，这对我很有好处，乔说，因为它让我保持甜蜜的脾气。劳里（Laurie）没有像他应该的那样有礼貌，现在我快十几岁了，他叫我“小鸡”（Chick），当我像海蒂·金（Hattie King）那样说“谢谢”或“祝你好”时，他用很快的法语对我说，伤害了我的感情。我蓝色裙子的袖子都磨坏了，梅格穿上了新的，但前面的部分不对，它们比裙子更蓝。我感觉很糟糕，但并不担心，我很好地忍受了我的麻烦，但我确实希望汉娜能在我的围裙上多加点淀粉，每天吃荞麦。她不能吗？我不是把那个询问点说得很好吗？梅格说我的标点符号和拼写很可耻，我感到很羞愧，但亲爱的我，我有很多事情要做，我无法停止。再见，我向爸爸致以深深的爱。你深情的女儿。 ..

AMY CURTIS MARCH
艾米·柯蒂斯·马奇

Dear Mis March,
亲爱的马奇小姐，

I jes drop a line to say we git on fust rate. The girls is clever and fly round right smart. Miss Meg is going to make a proper good housekeeper. She hes the liking for it, and gits the hang of things surprisin quick. Jo doos beat all for goin ahead, but she don’t stop to cal’k’late fust, and you never know where she’s like to bring up. She done out a tub of clothes on Monday, but she starched ‘em afore they was wrenched, and blued a pink calico dress till I thought I should a died a laughin. Beth is the best of little creeters, and a sight of help to me, bein so forehanded and dependable. She tries to learn everything, and really goes to market beyond her years, likewise keeps accounts, with my help, quite wonderful. We have got on very economical so fur. I don’t let the girls hev coffee only once a week, accordin to your wish, and keep em on plain wholesome vittles. Amy does well without frettin, wearin her best clothes and eatin sweet stuff. Mr. Laurie is as full of didoes as usual, and turns the house upside down frequent, but he heartens the girls, so I let em hev full swing. The old gentleman send heaps of things, and is rather wearin, but means wal, and it aint my place to say nothin. My bread is riz, so no more at this time. I send my duty to Mr. March, and hope he’s seen the last of his Pewmonia.
我想写信说我们已经开始了。女孩们很聪明，而且聪明地飞来飞去。梅格小姐将会成为一名合格的好管家。她很喜欢它，并且很快就掌握了事情的窍门。乔·杜斯（Jo doos）竭尽全力继续前进，但她不会先停下来，你永远不知道她想在哪里提出。周一，她把一桶衣服洗了出来，但在拧干之前，她先把它们浆洗干净，然后把一件粉红色的印花布连衣裙弄成了蓝色，直到我觉得自己应该笑死为止。贝丝是最优秀的小爬行者，对我来说是一种帮助，她是如此的正直和可靠。她努力学习一切，并真正进入超出她年龄的市场，同样在我的帮助下记账，非常棒。我们已经得到了非常经济的毛皮。我不会按照你的意愿让女孩们每周只喝一次咖啡，并让她们吃简单的有益健康的食物。艾米表现得很好，没有烦恼，穿着她最好的衣服，吃甜食。劳里先生像往常一样充满了迪多，经常把房子翻个底朝天，但他让女孩们振奋起来，所以我让她们全力以赴。老先生送了一堆东西，很疲惫，但意思是沃尔，我不该说什么。我的面包是riz，所以现在没有了。我把我的任务交给了马奇先生，希望他已经看到了最后的皮尤莫尼亚。

Yours respectful,
尊敬的您，

Hannah Mullet
汉娜鲻鱼

Head Nurse of Ward No. 2,
2号病区护士长，

All serene on the Rappahannock, troops in fine condition, commisary department well conducted, the Home Guard under Colonel Teddy always on duty, Commander in Chief General Laurence reviews the army daily, Quartermaster Mullet keeps order in camp, and Major Lion does picket duty at night. A salute of twenty-four guns was fired on reciept of good news from Washington, and a dress parade took place at headquarters. Commander in chief sends best wishes, in which he is heartily joined by...
拉帕汉诺克河上一片平静，部队状况良好，军需部门运作良好，泰迪上校领导的国民警卫队始终值班，总司令劳伦斯将军每天检阅军队，军需官鲻鱼维持营地秩序，狮子少校在夜晚。收到来自华盛顿的好消息后，鸣放了二十四响礼炮，总部还举行了盛装游行。总司令致以最良好的祝愿，他也衷心地与...

COLONEL TEDDY
泰迪上校

Dear Madam:
尊敬的女士：

The little girls are all well. Beth and my boy report daily. Hannah is a model servant, and guards pretty Meg like a dragon. Glad the fine weather holds. Pray make Brooke useful, and draw on me for funds if expenses exceed your estimate. Don’t let your husband want anything. Thank God he is mending.
小姑娘们都还好。贝丝和我的儿子每天汇报情况。汉娜是模范仆人，像巨龙一样守护着漂亮的梅格。很高兴天气好。祈祷布鲁克能发挥作用，如果费用超出你的估计，请向我求助。不要让你的丈夫想要任何东西。感谢上帝，他正在康复。

Your sincere friend and servant,
您真诚的朋友和仆人，

JAMES LAURENCE
詹姆斯·劳伦斯

CHAPTER SEVENTEEN
第十七章

For a week the amount of virtue in the old house would have supplied the neighborhood. It was really amazing, for everyone seemed in a heavenly frame of mind, and self-denial was all the fashion. Relieved of their first anxiety about their father, girls insensibly relaxed their praiseworthy efforts a little, and began to fall back into old ways. They did not forget their motto, but hoping and keeping busy seemed to grow easier, and after such tremendous exertions, they felt that Endeavor deserved a holiday, and gave it a good many.
老房子里的德行足以供应邻里一周。真是太神奇了，每个人都心境如天堂，克己风尚。摆脱了最初对父亲的焦虑后，女孩们不知不觉地放松了值得称赞的努力，并开始回到旧的方式。他们没有忘记自己的座右铭，但希望和保持忙碌似乎变得更容易，经过如此巨大的努力，他们觉得奋进号值得休假，并给了它很多假期。

Jo caught a bad cold through neglect to cover the shorn head enough, and was ordered to stay at home till she was better, for Aunt March didn’t like to hear people read with colds in their heads. Jo liked this, and after an energetic rummage from garret to cellar, subsided on the sofa to nurse her cold with arsenicum and books. Amy found that housework and art did not go well together, and returned to her mud pies. Meg went daily to her pupils, and sewed, or thought she did, at home, but much time was spent in writing long letters to her mother, or reading the Washington dispatches over and over. Beth kept on, with only slight relapses into idleness or grieving.
乔因疏于遮盖被剪掉的头而得了重感冒，并被命令待在家里直到病情好转，因为马奇姨妈不喜欢听人们在感冒时读书。乔喜欢这个，在从阁楼到地窖一番精力充沛的翻找之后，她坐在沙发上，用砒霜和书籍来缓解感冒。艾米发现家务和艺术不能很好地结合在一起，于是又回到了她的泥馅饼上。梅格每天都去她的学生那里，做缝纫活，或者说她自认为在家做针线活，但大部分时间都花在给母亲写长信上，或者一遍又一遍地阅读华盛顿的快讯。贝丝继续坚持下去，只是轻微地陷入了懒惰或悲伤之中。

All the little duties were faithfully done each day, and many of her sisters’ also, for they were forgetful, and the house seemed like a clock whose pendulum was gone a-visiting. When her heart got heavy with longings for Mother or fears for Father, she went away into a certain closet, hid her face in the folds of a dear old gown, and made her little moan and prayed her little prayer quietly by herself. Nobody knew what cheered her up after a sober fit, but everyone felt how sweet and helpful Beth was, and fell into a way of going to her for comfort or advice in their small affairs.
每天所有的小事都忠实地完成，她的许多姐妹也都忠实地完成了，因为她们很健忘，房子就像一只钟摆走走了。当她的心因对母亲的思念或对父亲的恐惧而变得沉重时，她就会走进某个壁橱，把脸埋在一件可爱的旧礼服的褶皱里，独自发出轻微的呻吟声，静静地祈祷。没有人知道是什么让她在清醒后振作起来，但每个人都觉得贝丝是多么可爱和乐于助人，并且在他们的小事情上向她寻求安慰或建议。

All were unconscious that this experience was a test of character, and when the first excitement was over, felt that they had done well and deserved praise. So they did, but their mistake was in ceasing to do well, and they learned this lesson through much anxiety and regret.
大家都没有意识到，这次经历是对性格的考验，当第一次兴奋结束后，都觉得自己做得很好，值得表扬。他们确实这么做了，但他们的错误在于不再表现出色，他们通过巨大的焦虑和遗憾吸取了这个教训。

‘Meg, I wish you’d go and see the Hummels. You know Mother told us not to forget them.’ said Beth, ten days after Mrs. March’s departure.
“梅格，我希望你能去看看胡梅尔斯一家。你知道母亲告诉我们不要忘记它们。”马奇夫人离开十天后，贝丝说道。

‘I’m too tired to go this afternoon,’ re;lied Meg, rocking comfortably as she sewed.
“我今天下午太累了，不想去。”梅格一边缝纫一边舒服地摇晃着身体，回答道。

‘Can’t you, Jo?’ asked Beth.
“你不能吗，乔？”贝丝问。

‘Too stormy for me with my cold.’
“对于我感冒来说，暴风雨太大了。”

‘I thought it was almost well.’
“我以为已经差不多好了。”

‘It’s well enough for me to go out with Laurie, but not well enough to go to the Hummels’,’ said Jo, laughing, but looking a little ashamed of her inconsistency.
“对我来说，和劳里一起出去已经足够了，但去胡梅尔斯队就不够了，”乔笑着说，但看起来对自己的反复无常感到有点羞愧。

‘Why don’t you go yourself?’ asked Meg.
“你为什么不自己去呢？”梅格问。

‘I have been every day, but the baby is sick, and I don’t know what to do for it. Mrs. Hummel goes away to work, and Lottchen takes care of it. But it gets sicker and sicker, and I think you or Hannah ought to go.’
“我每天都在，但宝宝病了，我不知道该怎么办。胡梅尔夫人去上班了，洛钦负责照顾。但情况变得越来越糟，我认为你或汉娜应该去。”

Beth spoke earnestly, and Meg promised she would go tomorrow.
贝丝语气诚恳，梅格答应她明天就去。

‘Ask Hannah for some nice little mess, and take it round, Beth, the air will do you good,’ said Jo, adding apologetically, ‘I’d go but I want to finish my writing.’
“向汉娜要一些漂亮的小杂乱，然后把它带走，贝丝，空气对你有好处，”乔说，抱歉地补充道，“我愿意去，但我想完成我的写作。”

‘My head aches and I’m tired, so I thought maybe some of you would go,’ said Beth.
“我头疼，而且很累，所以我想也许你们中的一些人会去，”贝丝说。

‘Amy will be in presently, and she will run down for us, suggested Meg.
“艾米马上就到了，她会跑下来接我们，”梅格建议道。

So Beth lay down on the sofa, the others returned to their work, and the Hummels were forgotten. An hour passed. Amy did not come, Meg went to her room to try on a new dress, Jo was absorbed in her story, and Hannah was sound asleep before the kitchen fire, when Beth quietly put on her hood, filled her basket with odds and ends for the poor children, and went out into the chilly air with a heavy head and a grieved look in her patient eyes. It was late when she came back, and no one saw her creep upstairs and shut herself into her mother’s room. Half an hour after, Jo went to ‘Mother’s closet’ for something, and there found little Beth sitting on the medicine chest, looking very grave, with red eyes and a camphor bottle in her hand.
于是贝丝躺在沙发上，其他人又继续工作，胡梅尔斯一家被遗忘了。一个小时过去了。艾米没有来，梅格去她的房间试穿新衣服，乔全神贯注于她的故事，汉娜在厨房的炉火前熟睡，贝丝悄悄地戴上兜帽，在她的篮子里装满了零碎的东西。可怜的孩子们，她带着沉重的头和耐心的眼神，走进了寒冷的空气中。她回来的时候已经很晚了，没有人看见她爬上楼，把自己关进了母亲的房间。半小时后，乔去“妈妈的衣柜”拿东西，发现小贝丝坐在药箱上，表情很严肃，红着眼睛，手里拿着一个樟脑瓶。

‘Christopher Columbus! What’s the matter?’ cried Jo, as Beth put out her hand as if to warn her off, and asked quickly, ‘You’ve had the scarlet fever, havent’t you?’
'克里斯托弗·哥伦布！ “怎么了？”乔喊道，贝丝伸出手，好像是在警告她不要走开，乔赶紧问道，“你得了猩红热，不是吗？”

‘Years ago, when Meg did. Why?’
“几年前，当梅格这么做的时候。为什么？'

‘Then I’ll tell you. Oh, Jo, the baby’s dead!’
‘那我就告诉你吧。哦，乔，孩子死了！”

‘What baby?’
'什么宝贝？'

‘Mrs. Hummel’s. It died in my lap before she got home,’ cried Beth with a sob.
'太太。胡梅尔的。她还没回家，它就死在我腿上了。”贝丝抽泣着喊道。

‘My poor dear, how dreadful for you! I ought to have gone,’ said Jo, taking her sister in her arms as she sat down in her mother’s bit chair, with a remorseful face.
‘我可怜的亲爱的，你真是太可怕了！我应该走的。”乔说着，把姐姐抱在怀里，坐在妈妈的小椅子上，一脸悔恨。

‘It wasn’t dreadful, Jo, only so sad! I saw in a minute it was sicker, but Lottchen said her mother had gone for a doctor, so I took Baby and let Lotty rest. It seemed asleep, but all of a sudden if gave a little cry and trembled, and then lay very still. I tried to warm its feet, and Lotty gave it some milk, but it didn’t stir, and I knew it was dead.’
“乔，这并不可怕，只是太悲伤了！”我很快就发现宝宝病情加重了，但洛琴说她妈妈去看医生了，所以我带着宝宝让洛蒂休息。它似乎睡着了，但突然发出一声小叫，颤抖着，然后一动不动地躺着。我试图温暖它的脚，洛蒂给了它一些牛奶，但它没有动，我知道它死了。

‘Don’t cry, dear! What did you do?’
‘别哭，亲爱的！你做了什么？'

‘I just sat and held it softly till Mrs. Hummel came with the doctor. He said it was dead, and looked at Heinrich and Minna, who have sore throats. ‘Scarlet fever, ma’am. Ought to have called me before, ‘ he said crossly. Mrs. Hummel told him she was poor, and had tried to cure baby herself, but now it was too late, and she could only ask him to help the others and trust to charity for his pay. He smiled then, and was kinder, but it was very sad, and I cried with them till he turned round all of a sudden, and told me to go home and take belladonna right away, or I’d have the fever.’
“我只是坐下来，轻轻地握住它，直到胡梅尔夫人和医生一起来。他说它死了，然后看着喉咙痛的海因里希和明娜。 “猩红热，女士。应该提前给我打电话的，”他生气地说。胡梅尔夫人告诉他，她很穷，曾试图亲自治愈孩子，但现在为时已晚，她只能请他帮助其他人，并将报酬交给慈善机构。他当时笑了，态度比较友善，但很伤心，我和他们一起哭，直到他突然转过身，告诉我马上回家吃颠茄，不然我会发烧。

‘No, you won’t!’ cried Jo, hugging her close, with a frightened look. ‘Oh, Beth, if you should be sick I never could forgive myself! What shall we do?’
“不，你不会的！”乔喊道，紧紧地拥抱着她，一脸惊恐的表情。 “哦，贝丝，如果你生病了，我永远无法原谅自己！我们该怎么办？

‘Don’t be frightened, I guess I shan’t have it badly. I looked in Mother’s book, and saw that it begins with headache, sore throat, and queer feelings like mine, so I did take some belladonna, and I feel better,’ said Beth, laying her cold hands on her hot forehead and trying to look well.
“别害怕，我想我的情况不会太糟糕。 “我看了妈妈的书，发现它的开头是头痛、喉咙痛和像我一样的奇怪感觉，所以我确实服用了一些颠茄，我感觉好多了，”贝丝说，她把冰冷的手放在滚烫的额头上，试图摆脱这种感觉。看起来很棒。

‘If Mother was only at home!’ exclaimed Jo, seizing the book, and feeling that Washington was an immense way off. She read a page, looked at Beth, felt her head, peeped into her throat, and then said gravely, ‘You’ve been over the baby every day for more than a week, and among the others who are going to have it, so I’m afraid you are going to have it, Beth. I’ll call Hannah, she knows all about sickness.’ ‘Don’t let Amy come. She never had it, and I should hate to give it to her. Can’t you and Meg have it over again?’ asked Beth, anxiously.
“要是妈妈在家就好了！”乔抓起书大声说道，感觉华盛顿已经离我们很远了。她读了一页，看着贝丝，摸了摸她的头，窥视着她的喉咙，然后严肃地说，“一个多星期以来，你每天都在照顾孩子，而在其他即将生孩子的人中，所以我担心你会得到它，贝丝。 “我会打电话给汉娜，她对疾病了如指掌。”“别让艾米来。”她从来没有拥有过它，我不想把它给她。你和梅格不能重来一次吗？”贝丝焦急地问道。

‘I guess not. Don’t care if I do. Serve me right, selfish pig, to let you go, and stay writing rubbish myself!’ muttered Jo, as she went to consult Hannah.
'我猜不会。不管我是否这样做。活该，自私的猪，让你走，我自己继续写垃圾！”乔一边嘀咕着，一边去咨询汉娜。

The good soul was wide awake in a minute, and took the lead at once, assuring that there was no need to worry; every one had scarlet fever, and if rightly treated, nobody died, all of which Jo believed, and felt much relieved as they went up to call Meg.
善良的灵魂一瞬间就清醒了，立刻带头，保证不用担心；每个人都得了猩红热，如果治疗得当，没有人会死亡，乔相信这一切，当他们上去给梅格打电话时，他感到松了一口气。

‘Now I’ll tell you what we’ll do,’ said Hannah, when she had examined and questioned Beth, ‘we will have Dr. Bangs, just to take a look at you, dear, and see that we start right. Then we’ll send Amy off to Aunt March’s for a spell, to keep her out of harm’s way, and one of you girls can stay at home and amuse Beth for a day or two.’
“现在我来告诉你我们要做什么，”汉娜在检查并询问贝丝后说道，“我们会请邦斯医生来看看你，亲爱的，看看我们的出发点是对的。”然后我们会送艾米去马奇婶婶家待一段时间，让她免受伤害，你们中的一个女孩可以留在家里逗贝丝一两天。

‘I shall stay, of course, I’m oldest,’ began Meg, looking anxious and self-reproachful.
“当然，我会留下来，我年纪最大了，”梅格开始说道，看上去既焦虑又自责。

‘I shall, because it’s my fault she is sick. I told Mother I’d do the errands, and I haven’t,’ said Jo decidedly.
“我会的，因为她生病是我的错。我告诉妈妈我会去办事，但我没有。”乔斩钉截铁地说。

‘Which will you have, Beth? There ain’t no need of but one,’ aid Hannah.
“你想要哪个，贝丝？ “不需要，只需要一个。”汉娜帮助道。

‘Jo, please.’ And Beth leaned her head against her sister with a contented look, which effectually settled that point.
“乔，求你了。”贝丝把头靠在姐姐身上，露出满足的表情，这实际上解决了这一点。

‘I’ll go and tell Amy,’ said Meg, feeling a little hurt, yet rather relieved on the whole, for she did not like nursing, and Jo did.
“我去告诉艾米，”梅格说，感觉有点受伤，但总的来说还是松了口气，因为她不喜欢护理，而乔喜欢。

Amy rebelled outright, and passionately declared that she had rather have the fever than go to Aunt March. Meg reasoned, pleaded, and commanded, all in vain. Amy protested that she would not go, and Meg left her in despair to ask Hannah what should be done. Before she came back, Laurie walked into the parlor to find Amy sobbing, with her head in the sofa cushions. She told her story, expecting to be consoled, but Laurie only put his hands in his pockets and walked about the room, whistling softly, as he knit his brows in deep thought. Presently he sat down beside her, and said, in his most wheedlesome tone, ‘Now be a sensible little woman, and do as they say. No, don’t cry, but hear what a jolly plan I’ve got. You go to Aunt March’s, and I’ll come and take you out every day, driving or walking, and we’ll have capital times. Won’t that be better than moping here?’
艾米公然反抗，并热情地宣称她宁愿发烧也不愿去找马奇姨妈。梅格推理、恳求、命令，全都是徒劳。艾米抗议说她不会去，梅格绝望地离开她，问汉娜该怎么办。回来之前，劳里走进客厅，发现艾米正把头埋在沙发垫上抽泣。她讲述了自己的故事，希望得到安慰，但劳里只是把手插在口袋里，在房间里走来走去，轻声吹着口哨，皱着眉头陷入沉思。不久，他在她身边坐下，用最逗人喜爱的语气说：“现在做个懂事的小女人，照他们说的去做吧。”不，别哭，但听听我有一个多么快乐的计划。你去马奇阿姨家，我每天都会来带你出去，开车或步行，我们会度过愉快的时光。这不是比在这里闷闷不乐更好吗？

‘I don’t wish to be sent off as if I was in the way,’ began Amy, in an injured voice.
“我不想被罚下场，就好像我妨碍了比赛一样，”艾米用受伤的声音说道。

‘Bless your heart, child, it’s to keep you well. You don’t want to be sick, do you?’
‘孩子，保佑你的心，让你保持健康。你不想生病，是吗？

‘No, I’m sure I don’t, but I dare say I shall be, for I’ve been with Beth all the time.’
“不，我确信我不会，但我敢说我会的，因为我一直和贝丝在一起。”

‘That’s the very reason you ought to go away at once, so that you may escape it. Change of air and care will keep you well, I dare say, or if it does not entirely, you will have the fever more lightly. I advise you to be off as soon as you can, for scarlet fever is no joke, miss.’
‘这就是你应该立即离开的原因，这样你就可以逃脱它。我敢说，换换空气和护理会让你保持健康，或者如果不能完全保持健康，你的发烧也会更轻。我建议你尽快离开，因为猩红热可不是闹着玩的，小姐。”

‘But it’s dull at Aunt March’s, and she is so cross,’ said Amy, looking rather frightened.
“但是马奇姨妈家很无聊，而且她很生气，”艾米说道，看上去相当害怕。

‘It won’t be dull with me popping; in every day to tell you how Beth is, and take you out gallivanting. The old lady likes me, and I’ll be as sweet as possible to her, so she won’t peck at us, whatever we do.’
“我的流行不会让我觉得无聊；每天告诉你贝丝怎么样，带你出去撒花。老太太喜欢我，我会尽可能对她好，这样无论我们做什么，她都不会啄我们。

‘Will you take me out in the trotting wagon with Puck?’
“你能带我和帕克一起坐马车出去吗？”

‘On my honor as a gentleman.’
“以我作为一名绅士的荣誉。”

‘And come every single day?’
“每天都来吗？”

‘See if I don’t’
‘看看我不这样做’

‘And bring me back the minute Beth is well?’
“贝丝康复后就带我回来吗？”

‘The identical minute.’
“同一分钟。”

‘And go to the theater, truly?’
“然后去剧院，真的吗？”

‘A dozen theaters, if we may.’
“如果可以的话，有十几家剧院。”

‘Well—I guess I will,’ said Amy slowly.
“嗯——我想我会的，”艾米慢慢地说。

‘Good girl! Call Meg, and tell her you’ll give in,’ said Laurie, with an approving pat, which annoyed Amy more than the ‘giving in’.
‘好姑娘！给梅格打电话，告诉她你会屈服。”劳里一边说，一边表示赞同，这比“屈服”更让艾米恼火。

Meg and Jo came running down to behold the miracle which had been wrought, and Amy, feeling very precious and self-sacrificing, promised to go, if the doctor said Beth was going to be ill.
梅格和乔跑下来观看所创造的奇迹，艾米感到非常宝贵并具有自我牺牲精神，答应如果医生说贝丝要生病的话就去。

‘How is the little dear?’ asked Laurie, for Beth was his especial pet, and he felt more anxious about her than he liked to show.
“亲爱的小宝贝怎么样？”劳里问道，因为贝丝是他特别的宠物，他对她的担心比他愿意表现出来的还要多。

‘She is lying down on Mother’s bed, and feels better. The baby’s death troubled her, but I dare say she has only got cold. Hannah says she thinks so, but she looks worried, and that makes me fidgety,’ answered Meg.
“她躺在母亲的床上，感觉好多了。孩子的死让她很困扰，但我敢说她只是感冒了。汉娜说她是这么认为的，但她看起来很担心，这让我坐立不安。”梅格回答道。

‘What a trying world it is!’ said Jo, rumpling up her hair in a fretful way. ‘No sooner do we get out of one trouble than down comes another. There doesn’t seem to be anything to hold on to when Mother’s gone, so I’m all at sea.’
“这是一个多么艰难的世界啊！”乔烦躁地揉乱头发说道。 ‘我们刚摆脱一个麻烦，另一个麻烦就会来临。母亲走了后，我似乎没有什么可以抓住的，所以我感到茫然。

‘Well, don’t make a porcupine of yourself, it isn’t becoming. Settle your wig, Jo, and tell me if I shall telegraph to your mother, or do anything?’ asked Laurie, who never had been reconciled to the loss of his friend’s one beauty.
‘好吧，别把自己当成豪猪，这不合适。 “乔，把你的假发安顿好，告诉我要不要给你妈妈发个电报，或者做点什么？”劳里问道，他对失去朋友唯一的美貌始终不甘心。

‘That is what troubles me,’ said Meg. ‘I think we ought to tell her if Beth is really ill, but Hannah says we mustn’t, for Mother can’t leave Father, and it will only make them anxious. Beth won’t be sick long, and Hannah knows just what to do, and Mother said we were to mind her, so I suppose we must, but it doesn’t seem quite right to me.’
“这就是让我烦恼的地方，”梅格说。 “我认为我们应该告诉她贝丝是否真的病了，但汉娜说我们不能这样做，因为母亲不能离开父亲，这只会让他们感到焦虑。贝丝不会病太久，汉娜知道该怎么做，母亲说我们要照顾她，所以我想我们必须这样做，但这对我来说似乎不太合适。

‘Hum, well, I can’t say. Suppose you ask Grandfather after the doctor has been.’
‘嗯，好吧，我不能说。假设你在医生检查完后问祖父。

‘We will. Jo, go and get Dr. Bangs at once,’ commanded Meg. ‘We can’t decide anything till he has been.’
'我们将。乔，立刻去找邦斯医生。”梅格命令道。 “在他做出决定之前我们无法做出任何决定。”

‘Stay where you are, Jo. I’m errand boy to this establishment,’ said Laurie, taking up his cap.
“呆在原地，乔。”我是这家店的跑腿，”劳里拿起帽子说道。

‘I’m afraid you are busy,’ began Meg.
“恐怕你很忙，”梅格开始说道。

‘No, I’ve done my lessons for the day.’
“不，我已经完成了今天的功课。”

‘Do you study in vacation time?’ asked Jo.
“你在假期学习吗？”乔问。

‘I follow the good example my neighbors set me,’ was Laurie’s answer, as he swung himself out of the room.
“我遵循邻居为我树立的好榜样，”劳里一边回答，一边走出了房间。

‘I have great hopes for my boy,’ observed Jo, watching him fly over the fence with an approving smile.
“我对我的孩子抱有很大的希望，”乔说道，看着他飞过栅栏，脸上带着赞许的微笑。

‘He does very well, for a boy,’ was Meg’s somewhat ungracious answer, for the subject did not interest her.
“对于一个男孩来说，他表现得很好。”梅格有些不客气地回答，因为她对这个话题不感兴趣。

Dr. Bangs came, said Beth had symptoms of the fever, but he thought she would have it lightly, though he looked sober over the Hummel story. Amy was ordered off at once, and provided with something to ward off danger, she departed in great state, with Jo and Laurie as escort.
邦斯医生来了，说贝丝有发烧的症状，但他认为她不会发烧，尽管他在胡梅尔的故事中看起来很清醒。艾米立刻被命令出发，并给了她一些避险的东西，她在乔和劳里的护送下，神采飞扬地离开了。

Aunt March received them with her usual hospitality.
马奇姨妈一如既往地热情好客地接待了他们。

‘What do you want now?’ she asked, looking sharply over her spectacles, while the parrot, sitting on the back of her chair, called out...
“你现在想要什么？”她问道，目光锐利地越过眼镜，而鹦鹉则坐在她的椅背上，大声叫道……

‘Go away. No boys allowed here.’
'离开。男孩不允许来这里。

Laurie retired to the window, and Jo told her story.
劳里退到窗边，乔讲述了她的故事。

‘No more than I expected, if you are allowed to go poking about among poor folks. Amy can stay and make herself useful if she isn’t sick, which I’ve no doubt she will be, looks like it now. Don’t cry, child, it worries me to hear people sniff.’ Amy was on the point of crying, but Laurie slyly pulled the parrot’s tail, which caused Polly to utter an astonished croak and call out, ‘Bless my boots!’ in such a funny way, that she laughed instead.
“如果你被允许去穷人中间闲逛的话，这并不比我想象的要多。如果艾米没有生病，她就可以留下来让自己变得有用，我毫不怀疑她会生病，现在看起来是这样。别哭，孩子，听到别人吸鼻子，我很担心。”艾米快要哭了，但劳里狡猾地拉了拉鹦鹉的尾巴，波莉惊讶地发出一声呱呱叫，喊道：“上帝保佑我的靴子！”以如此有趣的方式，她反而笑了。

‘What do you hear from your mother?’ asked the old lady gruffly.
“你从你母亲那里听到了什么？”老太太粗声问道。

‘Father is much better,’ replied Jo, trying to keep sober.
“父亲好多了。”乔回答道，试图保持清醒。

‘Oh, is her? Well, that won’t last long, I fancy. March never had any stamina,’ was the cheerful reply.
哦，是她吗？好吧，我想这不会持续太久。三月从来没有任何耐力，”这是愉快的回答。

‘Ha, ha! Never say die, take a pinch of snuff, goodbye, goodbye!’ squalled Polly, dancing on her perch, and clawing at the old lady’s cap as Laurie tweaked him in the rear.
'哈哈！永远不要说死，吸一口鼻烟，再见，再见！”波莉尖叫着，在栖木上跳舞，当劳里扭捏着他的后背时，她抓着老太太的帽子。

‘Hold your tongue, you disrespectful old bird! And, Jo, you’d better go at once. It isn’t proper to be gadding about so late with a rattlepated boy like...’
‘闭嘴，你这无礼的老鸟！而且，乔，你最好马上走。这么晚了和一个像……这样的笨蛋男孩一起闲逛是不合适的。”

‘Hold your tongue, you disrespectful old bird!’ cried Polly, tumbling off the chair with a bounce, and running to peck the ‘rattlepated’ boy, who was shaking with laughter at the last speech.
“闭嘴，你这个无礼的老鸟！”波莉叫道，从椅子上一蹦一跳，跑去啄那个“嘎嘎作响”的男孩，他在最后一次演讲中笑得浑身发抖。

‘I don’t think I can bear it, but I’ll try,’ thought Amy, as she was left alone with Aunt March.
“我想我无法忍受，但我会尽力的，”艾米想，因为只剩下她和马奇婶婶在一起。

‘Get along, you fright!’ screamed Polly, and at that rude speech Amy could not restrain a sniff.
“滚开，你这个胆小鬼！”波莉尖叫道，听了这粗鲁的话，艾米忍不住吸了一口鼻子。

CHAPTER EIGHTEEN
第十八章

Beth did have the fever, and was much sicker than anyone but Hannah and the doctor suspected. The girls knew nothing about illness, and Mr. Laurence was not allowed to see her, so Hannah had everything her own way, and busy Dr. Bangs did his best, but left a good deal to the excellent nurse. Meg stayed at home, lest she should infect the Kings, and kept house, feeling very anxious and a little guilty when she wrote letters in which no mention was made of Beth’s illness. She could not think it right to deceive her mother, but she had been bidden to mind Hannah, and Hannah wouldn’t hear of ‘Mrs. March bein’ told, and worried just for sech a trifle.’
贝丝确实发烧了，而且比汉娜和医生怀疑的任何人都严重得多。女孩们对疾病一无所知，劳伦斯先生也不被允许见她，所以汉娜一切都按她自己的方式进行，忙碌的邦斯医生尽力而为，但把很多钱留给了这位优秀的护士。梅格呆在家里，以免传染给国王，她一直待在家里，当她写信时没有提到贝丝的病，她感到非常焦虑和有点内疚。她认为欺骗母亲是不对的，但她被吩咐照顾汉娜，而汉娜不会听到“汉娜太太”这个名字。马奇被告知了，只是为了一点小事而担心。

Jo devoted herself to Beth day and night, not a hard task, for Beth was very patient, and bore her pain uncomplainingly as long as she could control herself. But there came a time when during the fever fits she began to talk in a hoarse, broken voice, to play on the coverlet as if on her beloved little piano, and try to sing with a throat so swollen that there was no music left, a time when she did not know the familiar faces around her, but addressed them by wrong names, and called imploringly for her mother. Then Jo grew frightened, Meg begged to be allowed to write the truth, and even Hannah said she ‘would think of it, though there was no danger yet’. A letter from Washington added to their trouble, for Mr. March had had a relapse, and could not think of coming home for a long while.
乔日日夜夜地奉献给贝丝，这并不是一件难事，因为贝丝很有耐心，只要她能控制自己，她就毫无怨言地承受着她的痛苦。但有一段时间，在发烧期间，她开始用嘶哑、断断续续的声音说话，在被单上弹奏，就像在她心爱的小钢琴上弹奏一样，并试图用肿胀的喉咙唱歌，以至于没有音乐留下，有一段时间，她不认识周围熟悉的面孔，而是用错误的名字称呼他们，并恳求地呼唤着她的母亲。然后乔开始害怕，梅格请求允许写出真相，甚至汉娜也说她“会考虑的，尽管还没有危险”。华盛顿寄来的一封信给他们增添了麻烦，因为马奇先生旧病复发，很长一段时间都无法回家。

How dark the days seemed now, how sad and lonely the house, and how heavy were the hearts of the sisters as they worked and waited, while the shadow of death hovered over the once happy home. Then it was that Margaret, sitting alone with tears dropping often on her work, felt how rich she had been in things more precious than any luxuries money could buy—in love, protection, peace, and health, the real blessings of life. Then it was that Jo, living in the darkened room, with that suffering little sister always before her eyes and that pathetic voice sounding in her ears, learned to see the beauty and to sweetness of Beth’s nature, to feel how deep and tender a place she filled in all hearts, and to acknowledge the worth of Beth’s unselfish ambition to live for others, and make home happy by that exercise of those simple virtues which all may possess, and which all should love and value more than talent, wealth, or beauty. And Amy, in her exile, longed eagerly to be at home, that she might work for Beth, feeling now that no service would be hard or irksome, and remembering, with regretful grief, how many neglected tasks those willing hands had done for her. Laurie haunted the house like a restless ghost, and Mr. Laurence locke the grand piano, because he could not bear to be reminded of the young neighbor who used to make the twilight pleasant for him. Everyone missed Beth. The milkman, baker, grocer, and butcher inquired how she did, poor Mrs. Hummel came to beg pardon for her thoughtlessness and to get a shroud for Minna, the neighbors sent all sorts of comforts and good wishes, and even those who knew her best were surprised to find how many friends shy little Beth had made.
现在的日子是多么的黑暗，家里是多么的悲伤和孤独，姐妹俩的心情是多么的沉重，她们一边工作一边等待，而死亡的阴影笼罩着曾经幸福的家。这时，玛格丽特独自一人坐着，常常为自己的工作而流泪，她感到自己拥有比任何奢侈品都更珍贵的东西——爱、保护、和平和健康，这些都是生命中真正的祝福。就在那时，乔住在黑暗的房间里，眼前总是有那个受苦的小妹妹，耳边响起那可怜的声音，她学会了看到贝丝本性的美丽和甜蜜，学会了感受一个地方是多么深沉和温柔。她充满了所有人的心，并承认贝丝无私的雄心壮志的价值，即为他人而活，并通过运用人人都可以拥有的那些简单美德来使家庭幸福，所有人都应该热爱和重视这些美德，而不是天赋，财富或财富。美丽。而艾米，在她的流亡中，渴望回到家里，为贝丝工作，现在感觉没有任何服务会是困难或令人厌烦的，并怀着遗憾的悲伤回忆起那些自愿的双手为她完成了多少被忽视的任务。劳里像一个焦躁不安的幽灵一样在房子里出没，而劳伦斯先生则锁住了大钢琴，因为他无法忍受想起那个曾经让暮色给他带来愉快的年轻邻居。每个人都想念贝丝。送奶工、面包师、杂货商和屠夫询问她过得怎么样，可怜的胡梅尔夫人来请求原谅她的粗心，并为明娜买了一件裹尸布，邻居们送来各种安慰和良好的祝愿，甚至那些认识她的人也送来了各种安慰和良好的祝愿。最令大家惊讶的是害羞的小贝丝竟然交了这么多朋友。

Meanwhile she lay on her bed with old Joanna at her side, for even in her wanderings she did not forget her forlorn protege. She longed for her cats, but would not have them brought, lest they should get sick, and in her quiet hours she was full of anxiety about Jo. She sent loving messages to Amy, bade them tell her mother that she would write soon, and often begged for pencil and paper to try to say a word, that Father might not think she had neglected him. But soon even these intervals of consciousness ended, and she lay hour after hour, tossing to and fro, with incoherent words on her lips, or sank into a heavy sleep which brought her no refreshment. Dr. Bangs came twice a day, Hannah sat up at night, Meg kept a telegram in her desk all ready to send off at any minute, and Jo never stirred from Beth’s side.
与此同时，她躺在床上，老乔安娜在她身边，因为即使在她的徘徊中，她也没有忘记她孤独的门徒。她渴望她的猫，但不会把它们带来，以免它们生病，在安静的时间里，她对乔充满了焦虑。她给艾米发了充满爱意的信息，让他们告诉她的母亲她很快就会写信，并经常乞求铅笔和纸来尝试说一句话，这样父亲就不会认为她忽视了他。但很快，这些意识的间歇期也结束了，她躺了一个小时又一个小时，翻来覆去，嘴唇上含着语无伦次的话，或者陷入沉睡，没有给她带来任何恢复。邦斯医生每天来两次，汉娜晚上熬夜，梅格在办公桌上放着一份电报，随时准备好随时发出，而乔则从未离开过贝丝身边。

The first of December was a wintry day indeed to them, for a bitter wind blew, snow fell fast, and the year seemed getting ready for its death. When Dr. Bangs came that morning, he looked long at Beth, held the hot hand in both his own for a minute, and laid it gently down, saying, in a low voice to Hannah, ‘If Mrs. March can leave her husband she’d better be sent for.’
十二月一号对于他们来说确实是一个寒冷的日子，寒风凛冽，雪花飘落，这一年似乎已经准备好死去了。那天早上，邦斯医生来的时候，他久久地看着贝丝，用双手握住那只滚烫的手一分钟，然后轻轻地放下，低声对汉娜说：“如果马奇夫人能离开她的丈夫最好把她叫去。

Hannah nodded without speaking, for her lips twitched nervously, Meg dropped down into a chair as the strength seemed to go out of her limbs at the sound of those words, and Jo, standing with a pale face for a minute, ran to the parlor, snatched up the telegram, and throwing on her things, rushed out into the storm. She was soon back, and while noiselessly taking off her cloak, Laurie came in with a letter, saying that Mr. March was mending again. Jo read it thankfully, but the heavy weight did not seem lifted off her heart, and her face was so full of misery that Laurie asked quickly, ‘What is it? Is Beth worse?’
汉娜点点头，没有说话，因为她的嘴唇紧张地抽动着。梅格一屁股坐在椅子上，听到这句话，四肢似乎失去了力气，乔脸色苍白地站了一会儿，跑向客厅。 ，抓起电报，扔上东西，冲进了暴风雨中。她很快就回来了，劳里悄无声息地脱下斗篷，手里拿着一封信进来，说马奇先生已经康复了。乔感激地读着，但心里的沉重似乎并没有减轻，她的脸上写满了痛苦，劳里连忙问道：“这是什么？”贝丝的情况更糟吗？

‘I’ve sent for Mother,’ said Jo, tugging at her rubber boots with a tragic expression.
“我已经派人去叫妈妈了。”乔说着，一脸悲惨地拉着橡胶靴。

‘Good for you, Jo! Did you do it on your own responsibility?’ asked Laurie, as he seated her in the hall chair and took off the rebellious boots, seeing how her hands shook.
“对你有好处，乔！ “这是你自己的责任吗？”劳里一边问道，一边让她坐在大厅的椅子上，脱下那双叛逆的靴子，看着她的双手颤抖着。

‘No. The doctor told us to.’
'不。医生告诉我们要这么做。”

‘Oh, Jo, it’s not so bad as that?’ cried Laurie, with a startled face.
“哦，乔，事情没那么糟糕吧？”劳里惊呼道。

‘Yes, it is. She doesn’t know us, she doesn’t even talk about the flocks of green doves, as she calls the vine leaves on the wall. She doesn’t look like my Beth, and there’s nobody to help us bear it. Mother and father both gone, and God seems so far away I can’t find Him.’
'是的。她不认识我们，甚至不谈起成群的绿鸽子，她把它们称为墙上的藤叶。她看起来不像我的贝丝，而且没有人可以帮助我们承受。母亲和父亲都去世了，上帝似乎离我很远，我找不到他。

As the tears streamed fast down poor Jo’s cheeks, she stretched out her hand in a helpless sort of way, as if groping in the dark, and Laurie took it in his, whispering as well as he could with a lump in his throat, ‘I’m here. Hold on tome, Jo, dear!’
当泪水从可怜的乔的脸颊上快速流下时，她无助地伸出了手，仿佛在黑暗中摸索，劳里握住了手，喉咙里哽着，竭尽全力低声说：“我在这。坚持住，乔，亲爱的！

She could not speak, but she did ‘hold on’, and the warm grasp of the friendly human hand comforted her sore heart, and seemed to lead her nearer to the Divine arm which alone could uphold her in her trouble.
她不能说话，但她确实“坚持住了”，友好的人类之手温暖的握感安慰了她酸痛的心，似乎引导她更接近神圣的手臂，只有神圣的手臂才能在她的困境中支撑她。

Laurie longed to say something tender and comfortable, but no fitting words came to him, so he stood silent, gently stroking her bent head as her mother used to do. It was the best thing he could have done, far more soothing than the most eloquent words, for Jo felt the unspoken sympathy, and in the silence learned the sweet solace which affection administers to sorrow. Soon she dried the tears which had relieved her, and looked up with a grateful face.
劳里渴望说些温柔而舒适的话，但他说不出合适的话，所以他默默地站着，像她母亲以前那样轻轻地抚摸着她低下的头。这是他能做的最好的事情，比最雄辩的话语更能抚慰人心，因为乔感受到了无言的同情，并在沉默中学会了情感给悲伤带来的甜蜜安慰。很快她就擦干了松了口气的泪水，抬起头来，脸上露出感激的表情。

‘Thank you, Teddy, I’m better now. I don’t feel so forlorn, and will try to bear it if it comes.’
“谢谢你，泰迪，我现在好多了。我并不感到那么孤独，如果它来了，我会尽力承受。

‘Keep hoping for the best, that will help you, Jo. Soon your mother will be here, and then everything will be all right.’
“继续抱有最好的希望，这会对你有所帮助，乔。很快你妈妈就会来了，然后一切都会好起来的。”

‘I’m so glad Father is better. Now she won’t feel so bad about leaving him. Oh, me! It does seem as if all the troubles came in a heap, and I got the heaviest part on my shoulders,’ sighed Jo, spreading her wet handkerchief over her knees to dry.
“我很高兴父亲好多了。现在她不会因为离开他而感到那么难过了。哦，我！看来所有的麻烦都是一堆，而我肩上的担子最重。”乔叹了口气，把湿手帕铺在膝盖上晾干。

‘Doesn’t Meg pull fair?’ asked Laurie, looking indignant.
“梅格做事不公平吗？”劳里问道，看上去很愤怒。

‘Oh, yes, she tries to, but she can’t love Bethy as I do, and she won’t miss her as I shall. Beth is my conscience, and I can’t give her up. I can’t! I can’t!’
“哦，是的，她试图这样做，但她不能像我一样爱贝丝，她也不会像我一样想念她。贝丝是我的良心，我不能放弃她。我不能！我不能！

Down went Jo’s face into the wet handkerchief, and she cried despairingly, for she had kept up bravely till now and never shed a tear. Laurie drew his hand across his eyes, but could not speak till he had subdued the choky feeling in his throat and steadied his lips. It might be unmanly, but he couldn’t help it, and I am glad of it. Presently, as Jo’s sobs quieted, he said hopefully, ‘I don’t think she will die. She’s so good, and we all love her so much, I don’t believe God will take her away yet.’
乔把脸埋进湿手帕里，绝望地哭泣，因为她一直勇敢地坚持到现在，从未流过一滴眼泪。劳里用手捂住眼睛，但无法说话，直到他抑制住喉咙里的窒息感并稳定住嘴唇。这可能不太有男子气概，但他无法控制，我对此感到高兴。不久，乔的抽泣声平息下来，他满怀希望地说：“我认为她不会死。”她非常好，我们都非常爱她，我不相信上帝会把她带走。

‘The good and dear people always do die,’ groaned Jo, but she stopped crying, for her friend’s words cheered her up in spite of her own doubts and fears.
“善良而可爱的人总是会死的，”乔呻吟道，但她停止了哭泣，因为她朋友的话让她高兴起来，尽管她自己也有怀疑和恐惧。

‘Poor girl, you’re worn out. It isn’t like you to be forlorn. Stop a bit. I’ll hearten you up in a jiffy.’
‘可怜的姑娘，你累坏了。孤苦伶仃的样子不像你。停一下。我会立刻让你振奋起来。

Laurie went off two stairs at a time, and Jo laid her wearied head down on Beth’s little brown hood, which no one had thought of moving from the table where she left it. It must have possessed some magic, for the submissive spirit of its gentle owner seemed to enter into Jo, and when Laurie came running down with a glass of wine, she took it with a smile, and said bravely, ‘I drink— Health to my Beth! You are a good doctor, Teddy, and such a comfortable friend. How can I ever pay you?’ she added, as the wine refreshed her body, as the kind words had done her troubled mind.
劳里一次下了两级楼梯，乔把疲倦的头放在贝丝的棕色小兜帽上，没有人想到把它从她留下的桌子上移开。它一定具有某种魔力，因为它温柔的主人的顺从精神似乎进入了乔的内心，当劳里端着一杯酒跑过来时，她微笑着接过它，勇敢地说：“我喝——健康为了健康”。我的贝丝！泰迪，你是一位好医生，也是一位令人舒服的朋友。我该怎么付钱给你呢？”她补充道，酒让她的身体焕然一新，而这些善意的话语也抚慰了她不安的心灵。

‘I’ll send my bill, by-and-by, and tonight I’ll give you something that will warm the cockles of your heart better than quarts of wine,’ said Laurie, beaming at her with a face of suppressed satisfaction at something.
“我很快就会寄出我的账单，今晚我会给你一些比夸脱酒更能温暖你心扉的东西，”劳里说道，对着她微笑着，脸上带着压抑的满足。某物。

‘What is it?’ cried Jo, forgetting her woes for a minute in her wonder.
“这是什么？”乔叫道，她在惊奇中暂时忘记了自己的痛苦。

‘I telegraphed to your mother yesterday, and Brooke answered she’d come at once, and she’ll be here tonight, and everything will be all right. Aren’t you glad I did it?’
“我昨天给你母亲发电报，布鲁克回答说她马上就来，今晚她就会在这里，一切都会好起来的。你不高兴我这么做了吗？

Laurie spoke very fast, and turned red and excited all in a minute, for he had kept his plot a secret, for fear of disappointing the girls or harming Beth. Jo grew quite white, flew out of her chair, and the moment he stopped speaking she electrified him by throwing her arms round his neck, and crying out, with a joyful cry, ‘Oh, Laurie! Oh, Mother! I am so glad!’ She did not weep again, but laughed hysterically, and trembled and clung to her friend as if she was a little bewildered by the sudden news.
劳里说得很快，转眼间他就脸红了，兴奋不已，因为他一直保守着自己的阴谋，生怕让女孩们失望，或者伤害贝丝。乔的脸色变得煞白，从椅子上飞了起来，他一停止说话，她就用双臂搂住他的脖子，高兴地喊道：“哦，劳里！”哦，妈妈！我太高兴了！”她没有再哭，而是歇斯底里地笑了，浑身颤抖着紧紧地抱住她的朋友，仿佛对这个突如其来的消息感到有些困惑。

Laurie, though decidedly amazed, behaved with great presence of mind. He patted her back soothingly, and finding that she was recovering, followed it up by a bashful kiss or two, which brought Jo round at once. Holding on to the banisters, she put him gently away, saying breathlessly, ‘Oh, don’t! I didn’t mean to, it was dreadful of me, but you were such a dear to go and do it in spite of Hannah that I couldn’t help flying at you. Tell me all about it, and don’t give me wine again, it makes me act so.’
劳里虽然非常惊讶，但表现得非常镇定。他安慰地拍拍她的背，发现她正在康复，接着害羞地吻了一两个，乔立刻清醒了过来。她抓住栏杆，轻轻把他推开，气喘吁吁地说：“哦，不要！”我不是故意的，这让我感到害怕，但你是如此可爱，不顾汉娜的去做，我情不自禁地向你飞去。把这一切都告诉我，别再给我喝酒了，这会让我这么做的。”

‘I don’t mind,’ laughed Laurie, as he settled his tie. ‘Why, you see I got fidgety, and so did Grandpa. We thought Hannah was overdoing the authority business, and your mother ought to know. She’d never forgive us if Beth... Well, if anything happened, you know. So I got grandpa to say it was high time we did something, and off I pelted to the office yesterday, for the doctor looked sober, and Hannah most took my head off when I proposed a telegram. I never can bear to be ‘lorded over’, so that settled my mind, and I did it. Your mother will come, I know, and the late train is in at two A.M. I shall go for her, and you’ve only got to bottle up your rapture, and keep Beth quiet till that blessed lady gets here.’
“我不介意，”劳里一边笑一边整理领带。 ‘为什么，你看我很烦躁，爷爷也是如此。我们认为汉娜在权威事务上做得太过分了，你妈妈应该知道。如果贝丝……好吧，如果发生了什么事，她永远不会原谅我们，你知道的。所以我让爷爷说我们是时候做点什么了，昨天我冲向办公室，因为医生看起来很清醒，当我提议发一份电报时，汉娜让我大吃一惊。我从来不忍心被人‘欺负’，所以我就下定决心，就这么做了。我知道你妈妈会来，晚班火车凌晨两点就到了。我会去找她，你只需克制住你的狂喜，让贝丝保持安静，直到那位幸运的女士到来。

‘Laurie, you’re an angel! How shall I ever thank you?’
“劳里，你是天使！我该如何感谢你呢？

‘Fly at me again. I rather liked it,’ said Laurie, looking mischievous, a thing he had not done for a fortnight.
‘再次飞向我。 “我很喜欢它。”劳里看上去很顽皮，他已经两周没有做过这样的事了。

‘No, thank you. I’ll do it by proxy, when your grandpa comes. Don’t tease, but go home and rest, for you’ll be up half the night. Bless you, Teddy, bless you!’
'不，谢谢。等你爷爷来了，我会委托你做这件事。别逗了，回家休息吧，因为你要睡半夜。祝福你，泰迪，祝福你！

Jo had backed into a corner, and as she finished her speech, she vanished precipitately into the kitchen, where she sat down upon a dresser and told the assembled cats that she was ‘happy, oh, so happy!’ while Laurie departed, feeling that he had made a rather neat thing of it.
乔退到了一个角落里，当她结束演讲时，她突然消失在厨房里，坐在梳妆台上，告诉聚集在一起的猫，她“很高兴，哦，太高兴了！”而劳里离开时，感觉他把这件事做得相当巧妙。

‘That’s the interferingest chap I ever see, but I forgive him and do hope Mrs. March is coming right away,’ said Hannah, with an air of relief, when Jo told the good news.
“这是我见过的最爱管闲事的家伙，但我原谅他，并希望马奇夫人马上就来。”当乔告诉这个好消息时，汉娜松了口气。

Meg had a quiet rapture, and then brooded over the letter, while Jo set the sickroom in order, and Hannah ‘knocked up a couple of pies in case of company unexpected”. A breath of fresh air seemed to blow through the house, and something better than sunshine brightened the quiet rooms. Everything appeared to feel the hopeful change. Beth’s bird began to chirp again, and a half-blown rose was discovered on Amy’s bush in the window. The fires seemed to burn with unusual cheeriness, and every time the girls met, their pale faces broke into smiles as they hugged one another, whispering encouragingly, ‘Mother’s coming, dear! Mother’s coming!’ Every one rejoiced but Beth. She lay in that heavy stupor, alike unconscious of hope and joy, doubt and danger. It was a piteous sight, the once rosy face so changed and vacant, the once busy hands so weak and wasted, the once smiling lips quite dumb, and the once pretty, well-kept hair scattered rough and tangled on the pillow. All day she say so, only rousing now and then to mutter, ‘Water!’ with lips so parched they could hardly shape the word. All day Jo and Meg hovered over her, watching, waiting, hoping, and trusting in God and Mother, and all day the snow fell, the bitter wind raged, and the hours dragged slowly by. But night came at last, and every time the clock struck, the sisters, still sitting on either side of the bed, looked at each other with brightening eyes, for each hour brought help nearer. The doctor had been in to say that some change, for better or worse, would probably take place about midnight, at which time he would return.
梅格安静地欣喜若狂，然后沉思着这封信，乔则把病房收拾得井井有条，汉娜“敲了几个馅饼，以防出现意外”。一股清新的空气似乎吹进了屋子，比阳光更好的东西照亮了安静的房间。一切似乎都感受到了充满希望的变化。贝丝的鸟儿又开始叽叽喳喳地叫起来，窗外艾米的灌木丛上发现了一朵半开的玫瑰花。火苗似乎燃烧着不同寻常的欢乐，每次女孩们见面，她们苍白的脸上都会绽放出笑容，互相拥抱，轻声鼓励：“亲爱的，妈妈来了！”妈妈来了！”除了贝丝之外，每个人都很高兴。她躺在那种严重的昏迷状态中，同样没有意识到希望和喜悦，怀疑和危险。曾经红润的脸色变得如此苍白、茫然，曾经忙碌的双手变得如此虚弱无力，曾经微笑的嘴唇变得呆滞，曾经漂亮、打理得井井有条的头发散落在枕头上。她一整天都这么说，只是偶尔醒来，嘟囔道：“水！”嘴唇太干了，几乎无法说出这个词。乔和梅格一整天都在她身边徘徊，注视着，等待着，希望着，相信着上帝和母亲，一整天雪花飘落，寒风肆虐，时间过得很慢。但夜幕终于来临，每当钟声敲响，姐妹俩仍然坐在床的两侧，眼睛闪闪发亮地互相看着对方，因为每一个小时都让救援离我们越来越近。医生曾说过，无论好坏，可能会在午夜左右发生一些变化，届时他就会回来。

Hannah, quite worn out, lay down on the sofa at the bed’s foot and fell fast asleep, Mr. Laurence marched to and fro in the parlor, feeling that he would rather face a rebel battery than Mrs. March’s countenance as she entered. Laurie lay on the rug, pretending to rest, but staring into the fire with the thoughtful look which made his black eyes beautifully soft and clear.
汉娜疲惫不堪，躺在床脚的沙发上睡着了。劳伦斯先生在客厅里来回走动，觉得自己宁愿面对叛军的炮火，也不愿面对马奇太太进来时的表情。劳里躺在地毯上，假装休息，但目光若有所思地盯着炉火，黑色的眼睛显得美丽而柔和而清澈。

The girls never forgot that night, for no sleep came to them as they kept their watch, with that dreadful sense of powerlessness which comes to us in hours like those.
女孩们永远不会忘记那个夜晚，因为她们守夜时睡不着，带着那种可怕的无力感，这种感觉在我们这样的几个小时里都会出现。

‘If God spares Beth, I never will complain again,’ whispered Meg earnestly.
“如果上帝饶恕贝丝，我就再也不会抱怨了。”梅格认真地低声说道。

‘If god spares Beth, I’ll try to love and serve Him all my life,’ answered Jo, with equal fervor.
“如果上帝饶恕贝丝，我会一生努力爱他并侍奉他，”乔以同样的热情回答道。

‘I wish I had no heart, it aches so,’ sighed Meg, after a pause.
“我希望我没有心，它太痛了，”停顿了一下，梅格叹了口气。

‘If life is often as hard as this, I don’t see how we ever shall get through it,’ added her sister despondently.
“如果生活经常如此艰难，我不知道我们该如何度过它，”她的姐姐沮丧地补充道。

Here the clock struck twelve, and both forgot themselves in watching Beth, for they fancied a change passed over her wan face. The house was still as death, and nothing but the wailing of the wind broke the deep hush. Weary Hannah slept on, and no one but the sisters saw the pale shadow which seemed to fall upon the little bed. An hour went by, and nothing happened except Laurie’s quiet departure for the station. Another hour, still no one came, and anxious fears of delay in the storm, or accidents by the way, or, worst of all, a great grief at Washington, haunted the girls.
时钟敲响了十二点，两人都忘记了自己注视着贝丝，因为他们觉得她苍白的脸上发生了变化。屋子里死一般寂静，只有风的呼啸声打破了深深的寂静。疲倦的汉娜继续睡着，除了姐妹俩，没有人看到那个苍白的影子似乎落在小床上。一个小时过去了，什么也没发生，除了劳里安静地出发去车站。又过了一个小时，仍然没有人来，女孩们担心暴风雨会延误，或者顺便发生意外，或者最糟糕的是华盛顿的巨大悲伤。

It was past two, when Jo, who stood at the window thinking how dreary the world looked in its winding sheet of snow, heard a movement by the bed, and turning quickly, saw Meg kneeling before their mother’s easy chair with her face hidden. A dreadful fear passed coldly over Jo, as she thought, ‘Beth is dead, and Meg is afraid to tell me.’
两点多了，乔站在窗前，想着世界在蜿蜒的白雪中显得多么沉闷，听到床边有动静，赶紧转过身，看到梅格跪在母亲的安乐椅前，隐藏着脸。当乔想到“贝丝死了，而梅格不敢告诉我”时，一种可怕的恐惧冷冷地袭过乔的心头。

She was back at her post in an instant, and to her excited eyes a great change seemed to have taken place. The fever flush and the look of pain were gone, and the beloved little face looked so pale and peaceful in its utter repose that Jo felt no desire to weep or to lament. Leaning low over this dearest of her sisters, she kissed the damp forehead with her heart on her lips, and softly whispered, ‘Goodby, my Beth. Goodby!’
她瞬间就回到了自己的岗位上，在她激动的眼神中，似乎发生了巨大的变化。发烧的红晕和痛苦的表情都消失了，心爱的小脸在完全的休息中显得如此苍白和平静，乔不想哭泣或哀叹。她俯身在她最亲爱的姐妹们身上，用嘴唇亲吻潮湿的额头，轻轻地低声说：“再见，我的贝丝。”有效期！'

As if awaked by the stir, Hannah started out of her sleep, hurried to the bed, looked at Beth, felt her hands, listened at her lips, and then, throwing her apron over her head, sat down to rock to and fro, exclaiming, under her breath, ‘The fever’s turned, she’s sleepin’ nat’ral, her skin’s damp, and she breathes easy. Praise be given! Oh, my goodness me!’
汉娜仿佛被这股骚动惊醒了，她从睡梦中惊醒，急忙跑到床上，看看贝丝，摸摸她的双手，听听她的嘴唇，然后把围裙套在头上，坐下来摇晃着，她低声惊呼：“发烧退了，她睡得很自然，皮肤潮湿，呼吸顺畅。”给予好评！哦，我的天哪！

Before the girls could believe the happy truth, the doctor came to confirm it. He was a homely man, but they thought his face quite heavenly when he smiled and said, with a fatherly look at them, ‘Yes, my dears, I think the little girl will pull through this time. Keep the house quiet, let her sleep, and when she wakes, give her...’
还没等女孩们相信这个幸福的事实，医生就来证实了这一点。他是一个相貌平平的男人，但当他微笑着，用慈父般的眼神看着他们说：“是的，亲爱的，我想这个小女孩这次会挺过来的时候，他们觉得他的脸很神圣。”让房子保持安静，让她睡觉，当她醒来时，给她……”

What they were to give, neither heard, for both crept into the dark hall, and, sitting on the stairs, held each other close, rejoicing with hearts too full for words. When they went back to be kissed and cuddled by faithful Hannah, they found Beth lying, as she used to do, with her cheek pillowed on her hand, the dreadful pallor gone, and breathing quietly, as if just fallen asleep.
他们要给予什么，两人都没有听到，因为两人都悄悄地走进黑暗的大厅，坐在楼梯上，紧紧地拥抱着对方，心中的喜悦之情溢于言表。当他们回去接受忠实的汉娜的亲吻和拥抱时，他们发现贝丝像以前一样躺着，用手枕着脸颊，可怕的苍白消失了，呼吸平静，好像刚刚睡着了。

‘If Mother would only come now!’ said Jo, as the winter night began to wane.
“妈妈现在就来就好了！”冬夜渐渐消逝时，乔说道。

‘See,’ said Meg, coming up with a white, half-opened rose, ‘I thought this would hardly be ready to lay in Beth’s hand tomorrow if she—went away from us. But it has blossomed in the night, and now I mean to put it in my vase here, so that when the darling wakes, the first thing she sees will be the little rose, and Mother’s face.’
“瞧，”梅格说着，拿出一朵半开的白色玫瑰花，“我想，如果她——离开我们，明天这朵玫瑰花就很难放在贝丝手里了。”但它在夜间开花了，现在我打算把它放在我的花瓶里，这样当亲爱的醒来时，她首先看到的就是那朵小玫瑰和母亲的脸。”

Never had the sun risen so beautifully, and never had the world seemed so lovely as it did to the heavy eyes of Meg and Jo, as they looked out in the early morning, when their long, sad vigil was done.
清晨，漫长而悲伤的守夜结束后，梅格和乔沉重的双眼向外望去，太阳从未升起得如此美丽，世界也从未如此可爱。

‘It looks like a fairy world,’ said Meg, smiling to herself, as she stood behind the curtain, watching the dazzling sight.
“这看起来就像一个童话世界，”梅格站在窗帘后面，看着这令人眼花缭乱的景象，微笑着自言自语道。

‘Hark!’ cried Jo, starting to her feet.
“听！”乔叫道，站了起来。

Yes, there was a sound of bells at the door below, a cry from Hannah, and then Laurie’s voice saying in a joyful whisper, ‘Girls, she’s come! She’s come!’
是的，下面的门上传来一阵铃声，汉娜的一声叫喊，然后劳里的声音用快乐的低语说道：“姑娘们，她来了！”她来了！

CHAPTER NINETEEN
第十九章

While these things were happening at home, Amy was having hard times at Aunt March’s. She felt her exile deeply, and for the first time in her life, realized how much she was beloved and petted at home. Aunt March never petted any one. She did not approve of it, but she meant to be kind, for the wellbehaved little girl pleased her very much, and Aunt March had a soft place in her old heart for her nephew’s children, though she didn’t think it proper to confess it. She really did her best to make Amy happy, but, dear me, what mistakes she made. Some old people keep young at heart in spite of wrinkles and gray hairs, can sympathize with children’s little cares and joys, make them feel at home, and can hide wise lessons under pleasant plays, giving and receiving friendship in the sweetest way. But Aunt March had not this gift, and she worried Amy very much with her rules and orders, her prim ways, and long, prosy talks. Finding the child more docile and amiable than her sister, the old lady felt it her duty to try and counteract, as far as possible, the bad effects of home freedom and indulgence. So she took Amy by the hand, and taught her as she herself had been taught sixty years ago, a process which carried dismay to Amy’s soul, and made her feel like a fly in the web of a very strict spider.
当这些事情在家里发生时，艾米在马奇姨妈家过得很艰难。她深深地感受到了流亡的感觉，并且生平第一次意识到自己在家里是多么受到爱护和宠爱。马奇姨妈从来没有抚摸过任何人。她不同意，但她想表现得友善，因为这个乖巧的小女孩让她很高兴，马奇姨妈在她古老的心里对她侄子的孩子们有一个柔软的地方，尽管她认为坦白不合适。它。她确实尽了最大努力让艾米开心，但是，亲爱的我，她犯了多少错误。有的老人即使满身皱纹、白发苍苍，内心依然年轻，能体恤孩子的点点滴滴，让他们有宾至如归的感觉，能在愉快的游戏下隐藏智慧的教训，以最甜蜜的方式给予和接受友谊。但马奇婶婶没有这种天赋，她的规则和命令、拘谨的举止以及冗长乏味的谈话让艾米非常担心。老太太发现这个孩子比她姐姐更温顺、更和蔼可亲，她觉得自己有责任尽可能地抵消家庭自由和放纵带来的不良影响。于是她拉着艾米的手，像六十年前她自己所受的教育一样教导她，这个过程让艾米的灵魂感到沮丧，让她感觉自己就像一只严格蜘蛛网中的苍蝇。

She had to wash the cups every morning, and polish up the old-fashioned spoons, the fat silver teapot, and the glasses till they shone. Then she must dust the room, and what a trying job that was. Not a speck escaped Aunt March’s eye, and all the furniture had claw legs and much carving, which was never dusted to suit. Then Polly had to be fed, the lap dog combed, and a dozen trips upstairs and down to get things or deliver orders, for the old lady was very lame and seldom left her big chair. After these tiresome labors, she must do her lessons, which was a daily trial of every virtue she possessed. Then she was allowed one hour for exercise or play, and didn’t she enjoy it?
她每天早上都要洗杯子，把老式勺子、大银茶壶和玻璃杯擦得锃亮。然后她必须打扫房间，这是一项多么艰难的工作。马奇姨妈的眼睛里没有任何斑点，所有的家具都有爪形腿和大量的雕刻，但从来没有掸过灰尘以配合。然后，波莉得被喂食，哈巴狗被梳理，还要上十几趟楼去取东西或送订单，因为老太太很跛，很少离开她的大椅子。在这些繁琐的劳动之后，她必须完成功课，这是对她所拥有的每一项美德的每日考验。然后她被允许锻炼或玩耍一小时，她不喜欢吗？

Laurie came every day, and wheedled Aunt March till Amy was allowed to go out with him, when they walked and rode and had capital times. After dinner, she had to read aloud, and sit still while the old lady slept, which she usually did for an hour, as she dropped off over the first page. Then patchwork or towels appeared, and Amy sewed with outward meekness and inward rebellion till dusk, when she was allowed to amuse herself as she liked till teatime. The evenings were the worst of all, for Aunt March fell to telling long stories about her youth, which were so unutterably dull that Amy was always ready to go to be, intending to cry over her hard fate, but usually going to sleep before she had squeezed out more than a tear or two.
劳里每天都来，哄骗马奇婶婶，直到艾米被允许和他一起出去，那时他们散步、骑马，度过了愉快的时光。晚饭后，她必须大声朗读，并在老太太睡觉时静静地坐着，她通常会读一个小时，然后读完第一页。然后拼布或毛巾出现了，艾米外表温顺，内心叛逆，一直缝到黄昏，直到下午茶时间，她才可以随心所欲地自娱自乐。晚上是最糟糕的，因为马奇婶婶开始讲她年轻时的长篇故事，这些故事枯燥得无法形容，以至于艾米总是做好了准备，打算为她的悲惨命运哭泣，但通常会在她睡前睡觉。挤出了一两滴眼泪。

If it had not been for Laurie, and old Esther, the maid, she felt that she never could have got through that dreadful time. The parrot alone was enough to drive her distracted, for he soon felt that she did not admire him, and revenged himself by being as mischievous as possible. He pulled her hair whenever she came near him, upset his bread and milk to plague her when she had newly cleaned his cage, made Mop bark by pecking at him while Madam dozed, called her names before company, and behaved in all respects like an reprehensible old bird. Then she could not endure the dog, a fat, cross beast who snarled and yelped at her when she made his toilet, and who lay on his back with all his legs in the air and a most idiotic expression of countenance when he wanted something to eat, which was about a dozen times a day. The cook was bad-tempered, the old coachman was deaf, and Esther the only one who ever took any notice of the young lady.
如果没有劳里和老女仆埃丝特，她觉得自己永远无法度过那段可怕的时光。光是这只鹦鹉就足以让她心烦意乱，因为他很快就觉得她并不欣赏他，于是用尽可能调皮的方式来报复自己。每当她靠近他时，他就会拉她的头发；当她刚清理完他的笼子时，他打乱了他的面包和牛奶，让她受苦；当夫人打瞌睡时，他啄他，让拖把吠叫；在公司面前骂她，在各方面都表现得像个小孩子。应受谴责的老鸟。然后她就无法忍受那只狗了，一只肥胖的、脾气暴躁的野兽，当她给他上厕所时，它对她咆哮、叫喊，当它想要什么东西时，它仰面躺着，双腿悬在空中，脸上露出最愚蠢的表情。吃，一天大约十几次。厨师脾气暴躁，老车夫是个聋子，而埃丝特是唯一一个注意到这位年轻女士的人。

Esther was a Frenchwoman, who had lived with‘Madame’, as she called her mistress, for many years, and who rather tyrannized over the old lady, who could not get along without her. Her real name was Estelle, but Aunt March ordered her to change it, and she obeyed, on condition that she was never asked to change her religion. She took a fancy to Mademoiselle, and amused her very much with odd stories of her life in France, when Amy sat with her while she got up Madam’s laces. She also allowed her to roam about the great house, and examine the curious and pretty things stored away in the big wardrobes and the ancient chests, for Aunt March hoarded like a magpie. Amy’s chief delight was an Indian cabinet, full of queer drawers, little pigeonholes, and secret places, in which were kept all sorts of ornaments, some precious, some merely curious, all more or less antique. To examine and arrange these things gave Amy great satisfaction, especially the jewel cases, in which on velvet cushions reposed the ornaments which had adorned a belle forty years ago. There was the garnet set which Aunt March wore when she came out, the pearls her father gave her on her wedding day, her lover’s diamonds, the jet mourning rings and pins, the queer lockets, with portraits of dead friends and weeping willows made of hair inside, the baby bracelets her one little daughter had worn, Uncle March’s big watch, with the red seal so many childish hands had played with, and in a box all by itself lay Aunt March’s wedding ring, too small now for her fat finger, but put carefully away like the most precious jewel of them all.
埃丝特是一位法国女人，多年来一直与“夫人”（她这样称呼她的情妇）住在一起，对老太太相当专横，因为她没有她就无法相处。她的真名是埃斯特尔，但马奇姨妈命令她改变它，她服从了，条件是她从未被要求改变她的宗教信仰。她很喜欢小姐，当艾米坐在她旁边帮小姐系鞋带时，她就给她讲了她在法国生活的奇怪故事，逗得她很开心。她还允许她在这座大房子里闲逛，检查大衣柜和古老箱子里储存的好奇而漂亮的东西，因为马奇姨妈像喜鹊一样囤积着。艾米最喜欢的是一个印度橱柜，里面装满了奇怪的抽屉、小文件柜和秘密的地方，里面放着各种各样的装饰品，有些是珍贵的，有些只是好奇的，都或多或少是古董。检查和整理这些东西让艾米非常满意，尤其是珠宝盒，里面的天鹅绒垫子上放着四十年前一位美女的装饰品。还有马奇婶婶出门时戴的石榴石套装、她父亲在婚礼当天送给她的珍珠、她情人的钻石、黑玉哀悼戒指和别针、带有已故朋友肖像的奇怪挂坠盒和用材料制成的垂柳。里面的头发，她小女儿戴过的婴儿手镯，马奇叔叔的大手表，上面有许多孩子的手玩过的红色印章，盒子里单独放着马奇婶婶的结婚戒指，现在对她胖手指来说太小了，但要像最珍贵的珠宝一样小心地收起来。

‘Which would Mademoiselle choose if she had her will?’ asked Esther, wo always sat near to watch over and lock up the valuables.
“如果小姐愿意的话，她会选择哪一个？”艾丝特问，我们总是坐在附近看管并锁上贵重物品。

‘I like the diamonds best, but there is no necklace among them, and I’m fond of necklaces, they are so becoming. I should choose this if I might,’ replied Amy, looking with great admiration at a string of gold and ebony beads from which hung a heavy cross of the same.
“我最喜欢钻石，但其中没有项链，而我最喜欢项链，它们太合适了。”如果可以的话，我应该选择这个。”艾米回答道，她非常钦佩地看着一串金乌木珠子，珠子上挂着一个沉重的十字架。

‘I, too, covet that, but not as a necklace. Ah, no! To me it is a rosary, and as such I should use it like a good catholic,’ said Esther, eyeing the handsome thing wistfully.
“我也想要这个，但不是项链。”啊，不！对我来说，它是一串念珠，因此我应该像一个好的天主教徒一样使用它，”埃丝特说道，渴望地看着这个英俊的东西。

‘Is it meant to use as you use the string of good-smelling wooden beads hanging over your glass?’ asked Amy.
“它的用途是像你使用挂在玻璃杯上的一串香味扑鼻的木珠一样吗？”艾米问。

‘Truly, yes, to pray with. It would be pleasing to the saints if one used so fine a rosary as this, instead of wearing it as a vain bijou.’
‘确实，是的，一起祈祷。如果有人使用像这样精美的念珠，而不是把它当作徒劳的珠宝来佩戴，那将是圣徒们所喜悦的。”

‘You seem to take a great deal of comfort in your prayers, Esther, and always come down looking quiet and satisfied. I wish I could.’
“埃丝特，你似乎从祈祷中得到了很大的安慰，并且总是看起来安静而满足。我希望我能。'

‘If Mademoiselle was a Catholic, she would find true comfort, but as that is not to be, it would be well if you went apart each day to meditate and pray, as did the good mistress whom I served before Madame. She had a little chapel, and in it found solacement for much trouble.’
“如果小姐是天主教徒，她会找到真正的安慰，但事实并非如此，如果你每天分开冥想和祈祷，那就太好了，就像我在夫人面前侍奉的那位好心的女主人那样。她有一个小教堂，在里面找到了许多烦恼的安慰。

‘Would it be right for me to do so too?’ asked Amy, who in her loneliness felt the need of help of some sort, and found that she was apt to forget her little book, now that Beth was not there to remind her of it.
“我也这样做合适吗？”艾米问道，她在孤独中感到需要某种帮助，并发现她很容易忘记她的小书，因为贝丝不在身边提醒她它的。

‘It would be excellent and charming, and I shall gladly arrange the little dressing room for you if you like it. Say nothing to Madame, but when she sleeps go you and sit alone a while to think good thoughts, and pray the dear God preserve your sister.’
“这将是极好的和迷人的，如果你喜欢的话，我很乐意为你安排小更衣室。不要对夫人说任何话，但当她睡着的时候，你去独自坐一会儿，想一些好的想法，并祈祷亲爱的上帝保佑你的妹妹。

Esther was truly pious, and quite sincere in her advice, for she had an affectionate heart, and felt much for the sisters in their anxiety. Amy liked the idea, and gave her leave to arrange the light closet next her room, hoping it would do her good.
以斯帖确实很虔诚，她的劝告也很真诚，因为她有一颗慈爱的心，对姐妹们的焦虑深感同情。艾米喜欢这个主意，并允许她在房间旁边安排灯柜，希望这对她有好处。

‘I wish I knew where all these pretty things would go when Aunt March dies,’ she said, as she slowly replaced the shining rosary and shut the jewel cases one by one.
“我希望我知道当马奇姨妈去世后，所有这些漂亮的东西都会去哪里，”她一边说，一边慢慢地放回闪亮的念珠，并一一关上珠宝盒。

‘To you and your sisters. I know it, Madame confides in me. I witnessed her will, and it is to be so,’ whispered Esther smiling.
‘给你和你的姐妹们。我知道，夫人向我吐露心声。我亲眼目睹了她的意愿，事情就是这样。”埃丝特微笑着低声说道。

‘How nice! But I wish she’d let us have them now. Procrastination is not agreeable,’ observed Amy, taking a last look at the diamonds.
'多好！但我希望她现在就让我们拥有它们。拖延是不愉快的。”艾米最后看了一眼钻石后说道。

‘It is too soon yet for the young ladies to wear these things. The first one who is affianced will have the pearls, Madame has said it, and I have a fancy that the little turquoise ring will be given to you when you go, for Madame approves your good behavior and charming manners.’
“对于年轻女士来说，穿这些东西还为时过早。第一个订婚的人会得到珍珠，夫人说过，我想当您走的时候，会送给您那枚绿松石小戒指，因为夫人认可您的良好行为和迷人的举止。

‘Do you think so? Oh, I’ll be a lamb, if I can only have that lovely ring! It’s ever so much prettier than Kitty Bryant’s. I do like Aunt March after all.’ And Amy tried on the blue ring with a delighted face and a firm resolve to earn it.
‘你这么认为吗？哦，如果我能拥有那枚可爱的戒指，我愿意成为一只羔羊！它比基蒂·布莱恩特的漂亮得多。毕竟我确实喜欢马奇姨妈。”艾米试戴了蓝色戒指，脸上满是喜悦，并坚定了赢得它的决心。

From that day she was a model of obedience, and the old lady complacently admired the success of her training. Esther fitted up the closet with a little table, placed a footstool before it, and over it a picture taken from one of the shut-up rooms. She thought it was of no great value, but, being appropriate, she borrowed it, well knowing that Madame would never know it, nor care if she did. It was, however, a very valuable copy of one of the famous pictures of the world, and Amy’s beauty-loving eyes were never tired of looking up at the sweet face of the Divine Mother, while her tender thoughts of her own were busy at her heart. On the table she laid her little testament and hymnbook, kept a vase always full of the best flowers Laurie brought her, and came every day to ‘sit alone’ thinking good thoughts, and praying the dear God to preserve her sister. Esther had given her a rosary of black beads with a silver cross, but Amy hung it up and did not use it, feeling doubtful as to its fitness for Protestant prayers.
从那天起，她就是服从的典范，老太太对她训练的成功感到沾沾自喜。艾斯特在壁橱里装了一张小桌子，在它前面放了一个脚凳，上面放了一张从一间封闭的房间里拍的照片。她认为它没什么大价值，但是，为了合适，她借了它，因为她知道夫人永远不会知道，也不在乎她是否知道。然而，这是一幅非常有价值的世界著名画作的复制品，艾米热爱美丽的眼睛永远不会厌倦仰望神圣母亲的甜美脸庞，而她自己温柔的思绪则忙于思考。她的心。她把她的小遗嘱和赞美诗放在桌子上，花瓶里总是装满劳里给她带来的最好的花，每天都会来“独自坐着”思考美好的想法，并祈祷亲爱的上帝保佑她的妹妹。艾丝特给了她一串带有银色十字架的黑色珠子，但艾米把它挂起来并没有使用它，她怀疑它是否适合新教祈祷。

The little girl was very sincere in all this, for being left alone outside the safe home nest, she felt the need of some kind hand to hold by so sorely that she instinctively turned to the strong and tender Friend, whose fatherly love most closely surrounds His little children. She missed her mother’s help to understand and rule herself, but having been taught where to look, she did her best to find the way and walk in it confidingly. But Amy was a young pilgrim, and just now her burden seemed very heavy. She tried to forget herself, to keep cheerful, and be satisfied with doing right, though no one saw or praised her for it. In her first effort at being very, very good, she decided to make her will, as Aunt March had done, so that if she did fall ill and die, her possessions might be justly and generously divided. It cost her a pang even to think of giving up the little treasures which in her eyes were as precious as the old lady’s jewels.
小女孩对这一切都是非常真诚的，因为独自一人被留在安全的巢穴之外，她感到如此痛苦，需要有一只仁慈的手来握住，她本能地转向了那个坚强而温柔的朋友，他的父爱最紧密地包围着她。他的小孩子们。她怀念母亲帮助她理解和统治自己的时光，但在被教导要往哪里看之后，她尽最大努力找到道路，并自信地走在其中。但艾米是一位年轻的朝圣者，刚才她的担子似乎很重。她试图忘记自己，保持快乐，并对做正确的事感到满意，尽管没有人看到或赞扬她。在她第一次努力表现得非常非常好时，她决定像马奇姨妈那样立下遗嘱，这样，如果她真的生病去世了，她的财产就可以得到公正而慷慨的分配。连想到要放弃这些在她眼里就像老太太的珠宝一样珍贵的小宝贝，她都感到痛苦。

During one of her play hours she wrote out the important document as well as she could, with some help from Esther as to certain legal terms, and when the good-natured Frenchwoman had signed her name, Amy felt relieved and laid it by to show Laurie, whom she wanted as a second witness. As it was a rainy day, she went upstairs to amuse herself in one of the large chambers, and took Polly with her for company. In this room there was a wardrobe full of old-fashioned costumes with which Esther allowed her to play, and it was her favorite amusement to array herself in the faded brocades, and parade up and down before the long mirror, making stately curtsies, and sweeping her train about with a rustle which delighted her ears. So busy was she on this day that she did not hear Laurie’s ring nor see his face peeping in at her as she gravely promenaded to and fro, flirting her fan and tossing her head, on which she wore a great pink turban, contrasting oddly with her blue brocade dress and yellow quilted petticoat. She was obliged to walk carefully, for she had on highheeled shoes, and, as Laurie told Jo afterward, it was a comical sight to see her mince along in her gay suit, with Polly sidilng and bridling just behind her, imitating her as well as he could, and occasionally stopping to laugh or exclaim, ‘Ain’t we fine? Get along, you fright! Hold your tongue! Kiss me, dear! Ha! Ha!’
在她玩耍的一个时间里，在埃斯特的帮助下，她尽可能地写出了这份重要的文件，其中包括某些法律条款，当这位好心的法国女人签下了她的名字时，艾米感到松了一口气，并把它放在一边以示她希望劳里成为第二个证人。由于是下雨天，她就上楼去一间大房间里玩，并带着波莉一起去。这个房间里有一个衣柜，里面装满了埃丝特允许她玩耍的老式服装，她最喜欢的娱乐就是穿上褪色的锦缎，在长镜子前走来走去，行庄严的屈膝礼，她的裙裾扫过，发出一阵悦耳的沙沙声。这一天她太忙了，没有听到劳里的铃声，也没有看到他的脸在偷看她，她严肃地来回走动，调情着她的扇子，摇着头，头上戴着一条巨大的粉红色头巾，与她的脸形成奇怪的对比。她的蓝色锦缎连衣裙和黄色绗缝衬裙。她不得不小心翼翼地走路，因为她穿着高跟鞋，而且正如劳里事后告诉乔的那样，看到她穿着那套华丽的西装扭捏地走着，波莉在她身后侧着身子，也学着她的样子。他尽其所能，偶尔停下来大笑或惊呼：“我们不是很好吗？”相处吧，你吓人！管住你的舌头！吻我吧，亲爱的！哈！哈！'

Having with difficulty restrained an explosion of merriment, lest it should offend her majesty, Laurie tapped and was graciously received.
劳里好不容易才抑制住一阵欢笑，生怕冒犯了女王陛下，她敲了敲门，受到了亲切的接待。

‘Sit down and rest while I put these things away, then I want to consult you about a very serious matter,’ said Amy, when she had shown her splendor and driven Polly into a corner. ‘That bird is the trial of my life,’ she continued, removing the pink mountain from her head, while Laurie seated himself astride a chair. ‘Yesterday, when Aunt was asleep and I was trying to be as still as a mouse, Polly began to squall and flap about in his cage, so I went to let him out, and found a big spider there. I poked it out, and it ran under the bookcase. Polly marched straight after it, stooped down and peeped under the bookcase, saying, in his funny way, with a cock of his eye, ‘Come out and take a walk, my dear.’ I couldn’t help laughing, which made Poll swear, and Aunt woke up and scolded us both.’
“你先坐下来休息一下，我把这些东西收起来，然后我想向你请教一件很严肃的事情。”艾米展现出自己的风采，把波莉逼到了墙角。 “那只鸟是我一生的考验，”她继续说道，把粉红色的山从头上移开，而劳里则骑在椅子上。 “昨天，当阿姨睡着了，我正想像老鼠一样一动不动时，波利开始在笼子里嚎叫、扑腾，所以我去把他放了出来，发现那里有一只大蜘蛛。我把它拿出来，它跑到了书柜下面。波利径直跟在它后面，弯下腰，从书柜底下往外看，用他滑稽的方式，用他的一只眼睛翘起眼睛说：“亲爱的，出来散步吧。”我忍不住笑了，这让波利大笑起来。发誓，阿姨醒了，骂了我们俩。

‘Did the spider accept the old fellow’s invitation?’ asked Laurie, yawning.
“蜘蛛接受了老家伙的邀请吗？”劳里打着哈欠问道。

‘Yes, out it came, and away ran Polly, frightened to death, and scrambled up on Aunt’s chair, calling out, ‘Catch her! Catch her! Catch her!’ as I chased the spider.’
“是的，它出来了，波莉吓得魂飞魄散，爬到姨妈的椅子上，喊道：‘抓住她！抓住她！当我追赶蜘蛛时，抓住她！”

‘That’s a lie! Oh, lor!’ cried the parrot, pecking at Laurie’s toes.
'这是一个谎言！噢，天哪！”鹦鹉一边啄着劳里的脚趾一边叫道。

‘I’d wring your neck if you were mine, you old torment,’ cried Laurie, shaking his fist at the bird, who put his head on one side and gravely croaked, ‘Allyluyer! Bless your buttons, dear!’
“如果你是我的，我会扭断你的脖子，你这个老折磨人，”劳里喊道，向那只鸟挥动拳头，那只鸟把头转向一侧，严肃地嘶哑地叫道，“阿利鲁耶！祝福你的纽扣，亲爱的！

‘Now I’m ready,’ said Amy, shutting the wardrobe and taking a piece of paper out of her pocket. ‘I want you to read that, please, and tell me if it is legal and right. I felt I ought to do it, for life is uncertain and I don’t want any ill feeling over my tomb.’
“现在我准备好了，”艾米说着，关上衣柜，从口袋里掏出一张纸。 “我希望您阅读该内容，并告诉我这是否合法且正确。我觉得我应该这样做，因为生活充满不确定性，我不想对我的坟墓产生任何不好的感觉。

Laurie bit his lips, and turning a little from the pensive speaker, read the following document, with praiseworthy gravity, considering the spelling:
劳里咬着嘴唇，从沉思的演讲者身上稍稍转过身来，以值得称赞的严肃态度阅读了以下文件，并考虑了拼写：

MY LAST WILL AND TESTIMENT
我的遗嘱和遗嘱

I, Amy Curtis March, being in my sane mind, go give and bequeethe all my earthly property—viz.to wit:—namely
我，艾米·柯蒂斯·马奇，在我神志清醒的情况下，去捐赠并遗赠我所有的尘世财产——即：——即

To my father, my best pictures, sketches, maps, and works of art, including frames. Also my $100, to do what he likes with.
献给我的父亲，我最好的照片、草图、地图和艺术作品，包括画框。还有我的 100 美元，可以做他喜欢做的事。

To my mother, all my clothes, except the blue apron with pockets—also my likeness, and my medal, with much love.
致我的母亲，我所有的衣服，除了带口袋的蓝色围裙，还有我的肖像和我的奖章，充满爱。

To my dear sister Margaret, I give my turkquoise ring (if I get it), also my green box with the doves on it, also my; piece of real lace for her neck, and my sketch of her as a memorial of her ‘little girl’.
对于我亲爱的妹妹玛格丽特，我给了我的绿松石戒指（如果我得到了的话），还有我的绿色盒子，上面有鸽子，也是我的；她脖子上有一块真正的蕾丝，还有我为她画的草图，以纪念她的“小女孩”。

To Jo I leave my breastpin, the one mended with sealing wax, also my bronze inkstand—she lost the cover—and my most precious plaster rabbit, because I am sorry I burned up her story.
我把我的胸针（用封蜡修补的那个）留给乔，还有我的青铜砚台——她把盖子丢了——还有我最珍贵的石膏兔子，因为我很抱歉我烧掉了她的故事。

To Beth (if she lives after me) I give my dolls and the little bureau, my fan, my linen collars and my new slippers if she can wear them being thin when she gets well. And I herewith also leave her my regret that I ever made fun of old Joanna.
对于贝丝（如果她在我之后生活），我把我的洋娃娃、小书桌、我的扇子、我的亚麻衣领和我的新拖鞋送给她，如果她康复后能穿得瘦一些的话。我也在此向她表示遗憾，因为我曾取笑老乔安娜。

To my friend and neighbor Theodore Laurence I bequeethe my paper mashay portfolio, my clay model of a horse though he did say it hadn’t any neck. Also in return for his great kindness in the hour of affliction any one of my artistic works he likes, Noter Dame is the best.
我将我的马赛纸质作品集遗赠给我的朋友兼邻居西奥多·劳伦斯，那是我的一匹马的粘土模型，尽管他确实说它没有脖子。也为了回报他在苦难时刻的伟大善意，他喜欢我的任何一件艺术作品，《圣母院》是最好的。

To our venerable benefactor Mr. Laurence I leave my purple box with a looking glass in the cover which will be nice for his pens and remind him of the departed girl who thanks him for his favors to her family, especially Beth.
对于我们可敬的恩人劳伦斯先生，我留下了我的紫色盒子，盖子上有一面镜子，这对他的笔很好，并让他想起那个已故的女孩，她感谢他对她的家人，尤其是贝丝的恩惠。

I wish my favorite playmate Kitty Bryant to have the blue silk apron and my gold-bead ring with a kiss.
我希望我最喜欢的玩伴凯蒂·布莱恩特能亲吻我的蓝色丝绸围裙和我的金珠戒指。

To Hannah I give the bandbox she wanted and all the patchwork I leave hoping she ‘will remember me, when it you see’.
我给了汉娜她想要的乐队盒和我留下的所有拼凑作品，希望她“当你看到的时候会记得我”。

And now having disposed of my most valuable property I hope all will be satisfied and not blame the dead. I forgive everyone, and trust we may all meet when the trump shall sound. Amen.
现在我已经处理掉了我最宝贵的财产，希望所有人都能满意，不要责怪死者。我原谅所有人，并相信当特朗普吹响时我们都会见面。阿门。

To this will and testiment I set my hand and seal on this 20th day of Nov. Anni Domino 1861.
为了这份遗嘱和证明，我于 1861 年 11 月 20 日亲手盖章。

Amy Curtis March
艾米·柯蒂斯·马奇

Witnesses:
证人：

Estelle Valnor,
埃斯特尔·瓦尔诺，

Theodore Laurence.
西奥多·劳伦斯.

The last name was written in pencil, and Amy explained that he was to rewrite it in ink and seal it up for her properly.
姓氏是用铅笔写的，艾米解释说他要用墨水重写并为她妥善密封。

‘What put it into your head? Did anyone tell you about Beth’s giving away her things?’ asked Laurie soberly, as Amy laid a bit of red tape, with sealing wax, a taper, and a standish before him.
‘是什么让你想到了这个？有没有人告诉过你贝丝把她的东西送人的事？”劳里严肃地问道，艾米在他面前放了一些繁文缛节，包括密封蜡、锥度器和支架。

She explained and then asked anxiously, ‘What about Beth?’
她解释了一下，然后焦急地问：“贝丝呢？”

‘I’m sorry I spoke, but as I did, I’ll tell you. She felt so ill one day that she told Jo she wanted to give her piano to Meg, her cats to you, and the poor old doll to Jo, who would love it for her sake. She was sorry she had so little to give, and left locks of hair to the rest of us, and her best love to Grandpa. She never thought of a will.’
“我很抱歉我说话了，但正如我所做的那样，我会告诉你。有一天，她感觉很不舒服，她告诉乔，她想把钢琴送给梅格，把猫送给你，把可怜的旧娃娃送给乔，乔会因为她的缘故而喜欢它。她很遗憾自己没有什么可以给予的，她把一绺头发留给了我们其他人，把她最好的爱留给了爷爷。她从来没有想过立遗嘱。

Laurie was signing and sealing as he spoke, and did not look up till a great tear dropped on the paper. Amy’s face was full of trouble, but she only said, ‘Don’t people put sort of postscripts to their wills, sometimes?’
劳里一边说话一边签字盖章，直到一滴大泪滴在纸上才抬起头来。艾米脸上满是烦恼，但她只是说道：“人们不是有时会在遗嘱上加上某种附言吗？”

‘Yes, ‘codicils’, they call them.’
“是的，他们称之为‘附录’。”

‘Put one in mine then, that I wish all my curls cut off, and given round to my friends. I forgot it, but I want it done though it will spoil my looks.’
“那就在我的头发里放一根吧，我希望把我所有的卷发都剪掉，送给我的朋友们。”我忘了，但我想把它完成，尽管它会破坏我的容貌。”

Laurie added it, smiling at Amy’s last and greatest sacrifice. Then he amused her for an hour, and was much interested in all her trials. But when he came to go, Amy held him back to whisper with trembling lips, ‘Is there really any danger about Beth?’
劳里补充道，对艾米最后也是最大的牺牲微笑。然后他逗了她一个小时，并对她的所有考验很感兴趣。但当他要走的时候，艾米拉住了他，嘴唇颤抖着低声问道：“贝丝真的有危险吗？”

‘I’m afraid there is, but we must hope for the best, so don’t cry, dear.’ And Laurie put his arm about her with a brotherly gesture which was very comforting.
“恐怕是这样，但我们必须抱最好的希望，所以不要哭，亲爱的。”劳里用手臂搂住她，做出了兄弟般的举动，这非常令人安慰。

When he had gone, she went to her little chapel, and sitting in the twilight, prayed for Beth, with streaming tears and an aching heart, feeling that a million turquoise rings would not console her for the loss of her gentle little sister.
他走后，她去了她的小教堂，坐在暮色中，为贝丝祈祷，泪流满面，心痛不已，觉得一百万枚绿松石戒指并不能安慰她失去温柔的妹妹。

CHAPTER TWENTY
第二十章

I don’t think I have any words in which to tell the meeting of the mother and daughters. Such hours are beautiful to live, but very hard to describe, so I will leave it to the imagination of my readers, merely saying that the house was full of genuine happiness, and that Meg’s tender hope was realized, for when Beth woke from that long, healing sleep, the first objects on which her eyes fell were the little rose and Mother’s face. Too weak to wonder at anything, she only smiled and nestled close in the loving arms about her, feeling that the hungry longing was satisfied at last. Then she slept again, and the girls waited upon their mother, for she would not unclasp the thin hand which clung to hers even in sleep.
我想我没有什么话可以告诉母女俩的会面。这样的时光生活起来很美好，但很难描述，所以我把它留给读者想象，只是说房子里充满了真正的幸福，梅格温柔的希望实现了，因为当贝丝从那儿醒来时在漫长而治愈的睡眠中，她的目光首先落在那朵小玫瑰和母亲的脸上。她太虚弱了，无法思考任何事情，只是微笑着，紧紧地依偎在她充满爱意的怀抱里，感觉饥饿的渴望终于得到了满足。然后她又睡着了，女孩们侍候着她们的母亲，因为她即使在睡梦中也不愿松开那只紧握着她的瘦手。

Hannah had ‘dished up’ and astonishing breakfast for the traveler, finding it impossible to vent her excitement in any other way, and Meg and Jo fed their mother like dutiful young storks, while they listened to her whispered account of Father’s state, Mr. Brooke’s promise to stay and nurse him, the delays which the storm occasioned on the homeward journey, and the unspeakable comfort Laurie’s hopeful face had given her when she arrived, worn out with fatigue, anxiety, and cold.
汉娜为旅行者“准备好了”令人惊叹的早餐，发现无法以任何其他方式发泄她的兴奋，梅格和乔像孝顺的小鹳鸟一样喂养他们的母亲，同时听她低声讲述父亲的状况，先生。布鲁克答应留下来照顾他，暴风雨在回家途中造成的延误，以及当劳里因疲劳、焦虑和寒冷而疲惫不堪时，满怀希望的脸给她带来了难以言表的安慰。

What a strange yet pleasant day that was. So brilliant and gay without, for all the world seemed abroad to welcome the first snow. So quiet and reposeful within, for everyone slept, spent with watching, and a Sabbath stillness reigned through the house, while nodding Hannah mounted guard at the door. With a blissful sense of burdens lifted off, Meg and Jo closed their weary eyes, and lay at rest, like storm-beaten boats safe at anchor in a quiet harbor. Mrs. March would not leave Beth’s side, but rested in the big chair, waking often to look at, touch, and brood over her child, like a miser over some recovered treasure.
那是多么奇怪而又愉快的一天啊。外面是如此辉煌和欢乐，因为整个世界似乎都在国外欢迎第一场雪。屋里如此安静祥和，因为每个人都在睡觉，都在注视着，安息日的寂静笼罩着整个房子，汉娜点点头，在门口站岗。带着一种卸下重担的幸福感，梅格和乔闭上了疲惫的眼睛，休息着，就像饱受风暴摧残的小船安全地停泊在安静的港口。马奇太太不愿离开贝丝的身边，而是坐在大椅子上休息，经常醒来看看、抚摸和思念她的孩子，就像一个守财奴对一些回收的宝藏一样。

Laurie meanwhile posted off to comfort Amy, and told his story so well that Aunt March actually ‘sniffed’ herself, and never once said ‘I told you so”. Amy came out so strong on this occasion that I think the good thoughts in the little chapel really began to bear fruit. She dried her tears quickly, restrained her impatience to see her mother, and never even thought of the turquoise ring, when the old lady heartily agreed in Laurie’s opinion, that she behaved ‘like a capital little woman’. Even Polly seemed impressed, for he called her a good girl, blessed her buttons, and begged her to ‘come and take a walk, dear’, in his most affable tone. She would very gladly have gone out to enjoy the bright wintry weather, but discovering that Laurie was dropping with sleep in spite of manful efforts to conceal the fact, she persuaded him to rest on the sofa, while she wrote a note to her mother. She was a long time about it, and when she returned, he was stretched out with both arms under his head, sound asleep, while Aunt March had pulled down the curtains and sat doing nothing in an unusual fit of benignity.
与此同时，劳里（Laurie）出去安慰艾米，并把他的故事讲得如此精彩，以至于马奇姨妈实际上“嗅了嗅”自己，并且从未说过“我告诉过你”。艾米这次表现得如此坚强，我想小教堂里的好想法真的开始结出果实了。她迅速擦干眼泪，克制住想要见母亲的急躁情绪，甚至根本没有想到绿松石戒指，而老太太则由衷地同意劳里的看法，认为她表现得“像个大女人”。就连波莉似乎也印象深刻，因为他称她为好女孩，祝福她的纽扣，并用他最和蔼可亲的语气恳求她“过来散步，亲爱的”。她本来很乐意出去享受冬日明媚的天气，但发现劳里尽管极力隐瞒却睡着了，便劝他在沙发上休息，同时给母亲写了一张纸条。她想了很长时间，当她回来时，他伸开双臂，枕在头下，熟睡着，而马奇婶婶拉下窗帘，什么也不做，表现出一种不同寻常的仁慈。

After a while, they began to think he was not going to wake up till night, and I’m not sure that he would, had he not been effectually roused by Amy’s cry of joy at sight of her mother. There probably were a good many happy little girls in and about the city that day, but it is my private opinion that Amy was the happiest of all, when she sat in her mother’s lap and told her trials, receiving consolation and compensation in the shape of approving smiles and fond caresses. They were alone together in the chapel, to which her mother did not object when its purpose was explained to her.
过了一会儿，他们开始认为他要到晚上才会醒来，而且我不确定他会醒来，如果不是艾米看到母亲时高兴的叫声把他吵醒的话。那天，城里和城里可能有很多快乐的小女孩，但我个人认为，艾米是最快乐的，当她坐在母亲的腿上，讲述她的磨难，接受安慰和补偿时认可的微笑和亲切的爱抚。他们独自一人在教堂里，当她母亲向她解释教堂的用途时，她并没有反对。

‘On the contrary, I like it very much, dear,’ looking from the dusty rosary to the well-worn little book, and the lovely picture with its garland of evergreen. ‘It is an excellent plan to have some place where we can go to be quiet, when things vex or grieve us. There are a good many hard times in this life of ours, but we can always bear them if we ask help in the right way. I think my little girl is learning this.’
“相反，我非常喜欢它，亲爱的，”目光从落满灰尘的念珠转向那本破旧的小书，还有那张带着常绿花环的可爱图画。 “当事情让我们烦恼或悲伤时，有一个地方可以让我们安静下来，这是一个很棒的计划。我们这一生会遇到很多困难，但如果我们以正确的方式寻求帮助，我们总是可以承受的。我想我的小女儿正在学习这一点。

‘Yes, Mother, and when I go home I mean to have a corner in the big closet to put my books and the copy of that picture which I’ve tried to make. The woman’s face is not good, it’s too beautiful for me to draw, but the baby is done better, and I love it very much. I like to think He was a little child once, for then I don’t seem so far away, and that helps me.’
“是的，妈妈，当我回家时，我打算在大衣柜里留一个角落来放我的书和我试图制作的那张照片的副本。女人的脸不好，太漂亮了，我画不了，但是baby画得更好，我很喜欢。我喜欢认为他曾经是个小孩子，因为那时我看起来并不那么遥远，这对我很有帮助。

As Amy pointed to the smiling Christ child on his Mother’s knee, Mrs. March saw something on the lifted hand that made her smile. She said nothing, but Amy understood the look, and after a minute’s pause, she added gravely, ‘I wanted to speak to you about this, but I forgot it. Aunt gave me the ring today. She called me to her and kissed me, and put it on my finger, and said I was a credit to her, and she’d like to keep me always. She gave that funny guard to keep the turquoise on, as it’s too big. I’d like to wear them Mother, can I?’
当艾米指着母亲膝上微笑的圣婴时，马奇夫人看到举起的手上有什么东西，让她微笑起来。她什么也没说，但艾米理解了她的表情，停顿了一分钟后，她严肃地补充道，“我想和你谈谈这件事，但我忘了。”今天姨妈给了我戒指。她把我叫到她身边，吻了我，把它戴在我的手指上，说我是她的功劳，她想永远保留我。她给了那个有趣的保护来保持绿松石，因为它太大了。我想穿上它们，妈妈，可以吗？

‘They are very pretty, but I think you’re rather too young for such ornaments, Amy,’ said Mrs. March, looking at the plump little hand, with the band of sky-blue stones on the forefinger, and the quaint guard formed of two tiny golden hands clasped together.
“它们非常漂亮，但我认为你太年轻了，不适合戴这样的装饰品，艾米。”马奇太太说道，她看着那只胖乎乎的小手，食指上戴着天蓝色的宝石带，还有古色古香的护卫。由两只紧握在一起的金色小手组成。

‘I’ll try not to be vain,’ said Amy. ‘I don’t think I like it only because it’s so pretty, but I want to wear it as the girl in the story wore her bracelet, to remind me of something.’
“我会尽量不虚荣，”艾米说。 “我不认为我喜欢它只是因为它很漂亮，但我想像故事中的女孩戴着手镯一样佩戴它，让我想起一些事情。”

‘Do you mean Aunt March?’ asked her mother, laughing.
“你是说马奇姨妈吗？”她母亲笑着问。

‘No, to remind me not to be selfish.’ Amy looked so earnest and sincere about it that her mother stopped laughing, and listened respectfully to the little plan.
“不，是为了提醒我不要自私。”艾米显得那么认真和真诚，妈妈止住了笑声，恭敬地听着这个小计划。

‘I’ve thought a great deal lately about my ‘bundle of naughties’, and being selfish is the largest one in it, so I’m going to try hard to cure it, if I can. Beth isn’t selfish, and that’s the reason everyone loves her and feels so bad at the thoughts of losing her. People wouldn’t feel so bat about me if I was sick, and I don’t deserve to have them, but I’d like to be loved and missed by a great many friends, so I’m going to try and be like Beth all I can. I’m apt to forget my resolutions, but if I had something always about me to remind me, I guess I should do better. May we try this way?’
“我最近对我的‘顽皮’想了很多，而自私是其中最大的顽皮，所以如果可以的话，我会努力治愈它。贝丝并不自私，这就是每个人都爱她并为失去她而感到难过的原因。如果我生病了，人们不会对我感觉那么糟糕，我不值得拥有他们，但我希望被很多朋友爱和想念，所以我会尝试像贝丝，尽我所能。我很容易忘记自己的决心，但如果我身边总有一些事情提醒我，我想我应该做得更好。我们可以尝试这样吗？

‘Yes, but I have more faith in the corner of the big closet. Wear your ring, dear, and do your best. I think you will prosper, for the sincere wish to be good is half the battle. Now I must go back to Beth. Keep up your heart, little daughter, and we will soon have you home again.’
“是的，但我对大衣柜的角落更有信心。”亲爱的，戴上你的戒指，尽力而为。我想你会成功的，因为真诚的愿望是成功的一半。现在我必须回到贝丝身边。保持你的心，小女儿，我们很快就会让你再次回家。”

That evening while Meg was writing to her father to report the traveler’s safe arrival, Jo slipped upstairs into Beth’s room, and finding her mother in her usual place, stood a minute twisting her fingers in her hair, with a worried gesture and an undecided look.
那天晚上，当梅格写信给她父亲报告旅行者安全抵达时，乔溜上楼进入贝丝的房间，发现她母亲在她常坐的地方，站了一分钟，手指在头发里捻着，表情忧心忡忡，表情犹豫不决。 。

‘What is it, deary?’ asked Mrs. March, holding out her hand, with a face which invited confidence.
“什么事，亲爱的？”马奇太太伸出手问道，脸上充满了自信。

‘I want to tell you something, Mother.’
“我想告诉你一件事，妈妈。”

‘About Meg?’
“关于梅格？”

‘How quickly you guessed! Yes, it’s about her, and though it’s a little thing, it fidgets me.’
‘你猜得多么快啊！是的，这是关于她的，虽然这是一件小事，但它让我坐立不安。

‘Beth is asleep. Speak low, and tell me all about it. That Moffat hasn’t been here, I hope?’ asked Mrs. March rather sharply.
‘贝丝睡着了。小声点，把事情的经过全部告诉我。我希望莫法特没来过这里吧？”马奇夫人相当尖锐地问道。

‘No. I should have shut the door in his face if he had,’ said Jo, settling herself on the floor at her mother’s feet. ‘Last summer Meg left a pair of gloves over at the Laurences’ and only one was returned. We forgot about it, till Teddy told me that Mr. Brooke owned that he liked Meg but didn’t dare say so, she was so young and he so poor. Now, isn’t it a dreadful state of things?’
'不。如果他这么做的话，我真应该当着他的面关上门。”乔说着，坐在母亲脚边的地板上。 “去年夏天，梅格在劳伦斯家留下了一双手套”，但只归还了一只。我们忘记了这件事，直到泰迪告诉我，布鲁克先生承认他喜欢梅格，但不敢说出来，她那么年轻，他那么穷。现在，这不是一种可怕的情况吗？

‘Do you think Meg cares for him?’ asked Mrs. March, with an anxious look.
“你认为梅格关心他吗？”马奇太太一脸焦急地问道。

‘Mercy me! I don’t know anything about love and such nonsense!’ cried Jo, with a funny mixture of interest and contempt. ‘In novels, the girls show it by starting and blushing, fainting away, growing thin, and acting like fools. Now Meg does not do anything of the sort. She eats and drinks and sleeps like a sensible creature, she looks straight in my face when I talk about that man, and only blushes a little bit when Teddy jokes about lovers. I forbid him to do it, but he doesn’t mind me as he ought.’
‘怜悯我吧！我对爱情一无所知，居然还有这种胡言乱语！”乔喊道，语气中夹杂着兴趣和轻蔑，很有趣。 “在小说中，女孩们通过惊恐、脸红、晕倒、变瘦、表现得像个傻瓜来表现这一点。现在梅格不再做类似的事情了。她吃、喝、睡都像个懂事的动物，当我谈论那个男人时，她直视着我的脸，只有当泰迪拿情人开玩笑时，她才会脸红一点。我禁止他这样做，但他并没有像他应该的那样介意我。

‘Then you fancy that Meg is not interested in John?’
“那么你认为梅格对约翰不感兴趣？”

‘Who?’ cried Jo, staring.
“谁？”乔瞪大眼睛喊道。

‘Mr. Brooke. I call him ‘John’ now. We fell into the way of doing so at the hospital, and he likes it.’
'先生。布鲁克。我现在叫他“约翰”。我们在医院就采用了这样做的方式，他喜欢这样。”

‘Oh, dear! I know you’ll take his part. He’s been good to Father, and you won’t send him away, but let Meg marry him, if she wants to. Mean thing! To go petting Papa and helping you, just to wheedle you into liking him.’ And Jo pulled her hair again with a wrathful tweak.
'哦亲爱的！我知道你会支持他。他对父亲很好，你不会把他送走，但如果梅格愿意的话，就让她嫁给他吧。卑鄙的东西！去抚摸爸爸并帮助你，只是为了哄你喜欢他。”乔又愤怒地扭了一下她的头发。

‘My dear, don’t get angry about it, and I will tell you how it happened. John went with me at Mr. Laurence’s request, and was so devoted to poor Father that we couldn’t help getting fond of him. He was perfectly open and honorable about Meg, for he told us he loved her, but would earn a comfortable home before he asked her to marry him. He only wanted our leave to love her and work for her, and the right to make her love him if he could. He is a truly excellent young man, and we could not refuse to listen to him, but I will not consent to Meg’s engaging herself so young.’
‘亲爱的，别生气，我会告诉你这是怎么发生的。约翰应劳伦斯先生的要求和我一起去了，他对可怜的父亲如此忠诚，以至于我们情不自禁地喜欢他。他对梅格的态度非常开放和诚实，因为他告诉我们他爱她，但在向她求婚之前他会先赢得一个舒适的家。他只想要我们离开爱她并为她工作，以及如果可以的话让她爱他的权利。他是一个真正优秀的年轻人，我们不能拒绝听他的，但我不会同意梅格这么年轻就参与其中。

‘Of course not. It would be idiotic! I knew there was mischief brewing. I felt it, and now it’s worse than I imagined. I just wish I could marry Meg myself, and keep her safe in the family.’
'当然不是。这太愚蠢了！我知道有恶作剧正在酝酿。我感觉到了，现在情况比我想象的还要糟糕。我只希望我能亲自娶梅格为妻，并保证她在家里的安全。”

This odd arrangement made Mrs. March smile, but she said gravely, ‘Jo, I confide in you and don’t wish you to say anything to Meg yet. When John comes back, and I see them together, I can judge better of her feelings toward him.’
这种奇怪的安排让马奇太太笑了，但她严肃地说：“乔，我向你吐露心声，还不希望你对梅格说任何话。”当约翰回来时，我看到他们在一起，我可以更好地判断她对他的感情。

‘She’ll see those handsome eyes that she talks about, and then it will be all up with her. She’s got such a soft heart, it will melt like butter in the sun if anyone looks sentimentlly at her. She read the short reports he sent more than she did your letters, and pinched me when I spoke of it, and likes brown eyes, and doesn’t think John an ugly name, and she’ll go and fall in love, and there’s an end of peace and fun, and cozy times together. I see it all! They’ll go lovering around the house, and we shall have to dodge. Meg will be absorbed and no good to me any more. Brooke will scratch up a fortune somehow, carry her off, and make a hole in the family, and I shall break my heart, and everything will be abominably uncomfortable. Oh, dear me! Why weren’t we all boys, then there wouldn’t be any bother.’
“她会看到她所说的那双漂亮的眼睛，然后一切就都完了。”她的心是如此柔软，如果有人多愁善感地看着她，她的心就会像阳光下的黄油一样融化。她读他寄来的简短报告比读你的信还多，当我说起这件事时，她掐了我一下，她喜欢棕色的眼睛，也不认为约翰是一个丑陋的名字，她会去坠入爱河，还有和平、欢乐和舒适的在一起时光结束了。我都看到了！他们会在房子里到处乱搞，我们就得躲开。梅格会被吸收，对我来说不再有任何好处。布鲁克会以某种方式赚到一大笔钱，把她带走，在家里造成一个窟窿，而我会伤心，一切都会变得非常不舒服。噢，亲爱的我！为什么我们不都是男孩，那就不会有任何麻烦了。

Jo leaned her chin on her knees in a disconsolate attitude and shook her fist at the reprehensible John. Mrs. March sighed, and Jo looked up with an air of relief.
乔一脸沮丧地将下巴靠在膝盖上，对应受谴责的约翰挥舞着拳头。马奇太太叹了口气，乔抬起头，脸上露出如释重负的神情。

‘You don’t like it, Mother? I’m glad of it. Let’s send him about his business, and not tell Meg a word of it, but all be happy together as we always have been.’
‘你不喜欢这样吗，妈妈？我很高兴。让我们把他的事告诉他吧，不要告诉梅格一个字，但大家要像往常一样快乐地在一起。

‘I did wrong to sigh, Jo. It is natural and right you should all go to homes of your own in time, but I do want to keep my girls as long as I can, and I am sorry that this happened so soon, for Meg is only seventeen and it will be some years before John can make a home for her. Your father and I have agreed that she shall not bind herself in any way, nor be married, before twenty. If she and John love one another, they can wait, and test the love by doing so. She is conscientious, and I have no fear of her treating him unkindly. My pretty, tender hearted girl! I hope things will go happily with her.’
“我叹息是错误的，乔。你们都应该及时回到自己的家，这是很自然的事情，也是正确的，但我确实想尽可能长时间地保留我的女儿们，我很抱歉这件事发生得太快了，因为梅格只有十七岁，这将是约翰可以为她安家几年。你父亲和我商定，她在二十岁之前不得以任何方式束缚自己，也不得结婚。如果她和约翰彼此相爱，他们可以等待，并通过这样做来检验爱情。她很认真，我不怕她对他不友善。我可爱又温柔的女孩！我希望她能一切顺利。”

‘Hadn’t you rather have her marry a rich man?’ asked Jo, as her mother’s voice faltered a little over the last words.
“你不想让她嫁给一个有钱人吗？”乔问道，她母亲的声音在最后一句话中有些颤抖。

‘Money is a good and useful thing, Jo, and I hope my girls will never feel the need of it too bitterly not be tempted by too much. I should like to know that John was firmly established in some good business, which gave him an income large enough to keep free from debt and make Meg comfortable. I’m not ambitious for a splendid fortune, a fashionable position, or a great name for my girls. If rank and money come with love and virtue, also, I should accept them gratefully, and enjoy your good fortune, but I know, by experience, how much genuine happiness can be had in a plain little house, where the daily bread is earned, and some privations give sweetness to the few pleasures. I am content to see Meg begin humbly, for if I am not mistaken, she will be rich in the possession of a good man’s heart, and that is better than a fortune.’
“钱是个好东西，很有用，乔，我希望我的女儿们永远不会太强烈地需要它，不要被太多的诱惑。我想知道约翰在一些不错的生意上站稳了脚跟，这给了他足够的收入，可以免除债务，让梅格过得舒适。我并不雄心勃勃地追求巨额财富、时尚职位或为我的女儿们取个好名字。如果地位和金钱伴随着爱和美德而来，我也应该感激地接受它们，并享受你的好运，但根据经验，我知道，在一个普通的小房子里，每天的面包都是靠自己挣来的，能获得多少真正的幸福，而一些匮乏却给少数的快乐带来了甜蜜。我很高兴看到梅格谦虚地开始，因为如果我没有弄错的话，她会因拥有一颗好男人的心而变得富有，这比财富更好。

‘I understand, Mother, and quite agree, but I’m disappointed about Meg, for I’d planned to have her marry Teddy by-and-by and sit in the lap of luxury all her days. Wouldn’t it be nice?’ asked Jo, looking up with a brighter face.
“我理解，妈妈，也非常同意，但我对梅格感到失望，因为我本来打算让她早点嫁给泰迪，让她整天享受奢侈的生活。这不是很好吗？”乔问道，抬起头来，脸上的表情更加明亮。

‘He is younger than she, you know,’ began Mrs. March, but Jo broke in...
“你知道，他比她年轻，”马奇太太开始说道，但乔插嘴了……

‘Only a little, he’s old for his age, and tall, and can be quite grown-up in his manners if he likes. Then he’s rich and generous and good, and loves us all, and I say it’s a pity my plan is spoiled.’
“只有一点点，他比同龄人要老，而且个子很高，如果他愿意的话，他的举止也可以很成熟。”然后他又富有又慷慨又善良，并且爱我们所有人，我说很遗憾我的计划被破坏了。

‘I’m afraid Laurie is hardly grown-up enough for Meg, and altogether too much of a weathercock just now for anyone to depend on. Don’t make plans, Jo, but let time and their own hearts mate your friends. We can’t meddle safely in such matters, and had better not get ‘romantic rubbish’ as you call it, into our heads, lest it spoil our friendship.’
“我担心劳里对梅格来说还不够成熟，而且现在对于任何人来说都太像风向标了。乔，不要制定计划，而是让时间和他们自己的心与你的朋友交配。我们不能安全地插手这些事情，最好不要让你所说的“浪漫垃圾”进入我们的头脑，以免破坏我们的友谊。

‘Well, I won’t, but I hate to see things going all crisscross and getting snarled up, when a pull her and a snip there would straighten it out. I wish wearing flatirons on our heads would keep us from growing up. But buds will be roses, and kittens cats, more’s the pity!’
“好吧，我不会，但我讨厌看到事情变得纵横交错并变得混乱，而拉动她并剪断那里就能理顺它。我希望头上戴熨斗可以阻止我们长大。但花蕾会是玫瑰，小猫会是猫，多了可惜了！

‘What’s that about flatirons and cats?’ asked Meg, as she crept into the room with the finished letter in her hand.
“熨斗和猫是怎么回事？”梅格一边问道，一边手里拿着写完的信，蹑手蹑脚地走进房间。

‘Only one of my stupid speeches. I’m going to bed. Come, Peggy,’ said Jo, unfolding herself like an animated puzzle.
‘这只是我的一次愚蠢演讲。我去睡觉了。来吧，佩吉，”乔说着，像一个动画拼图一样展开自己。

‘Quite right, and beautifully written. Please add that I send my love to John,’ said Mrs. March, as she glanced over the letter and gave it back.
‘非常正确，而且写得很好。请补充说，我向约翰表达了我的爱。”马奇夫人一边说，一边浏览了这封信，然后将其退回。

‘Do you call him ‘John’?’ asked Meg, smiling, with her innocent eyes looking down into her mother’s.
“你叫他‘约翰’吗？”梅格微笑着问道，她天真的眼睛俯视着母亲的眼睛。

‘Yes, he has been like a son to us, and we are very fond of him,’ replied Mrs. March, returning the look with a keen one.
“是的，他对我们来说就像一个儿子，我们非常喜欢他。”马奇太太回答道，并以敏锐的目光回应了他。

‘I’m glad of that, he is so lonely. Good night, Mother, dear. It is so inexpressibly comfortable to have you here,’ was Meg’s answer.
“我对此感到高兴，他是如此孤独。晚安，妈妈，亲爱的。有你在这儿真是令人难以言表的舒服。”梅格回答道。

The kiss her mother gave her was a very tender one, and as she went away, Mrs. March said, with a mixture of satisfaction and regret, ‘She does not love John yet, but will soon learn to.
她母亲给她的吻非常温柔，当她离开时，马奇夫人带着满意和遗憾的心情说：“她还不爱约翰，但很快就会学会爱约翰。”

CHAPTER TWENTY-ONE
第二十一章

Jo’s face was a study next day, for the secret rather weighed upon her, and she found it hard not to look mysterious and important. Meg observed it, but did not trouble herself to make inquiries, for she had learned that the best way to manage Jo was by the law of contraries, so she felt sure of being told everything if she did not ask. She was rather surprised, therefore, when the silence remained unbroken, and Jo assumed a patronizing air, which decidedly aggravated Meg, who in turn assumed an air of dignified reserve and devoted herself to her mother. This left Jo to her own devices, for Mrs. March had taken her place as nurse, and bade her rest, exercise, and amuse herself after her long confinement. Amy being gone, Laurie was her only refuge, and much as she enjoyed his society, she rather dreaded him just then, for he was an incorrigible tease, and she feared he would coax the secret from her.
第二天，乔的表情变得很严肃，因为这个秘密对她来说相当沉重，她发现很难不显得神秘而重要。梅格观察到了这一点，但并没有费力去询问，因为她知道管理乔的最好方法是遵循相反的法则，所以如果她不问，她确信一切都会被告诉。因此，当沉默没有被打破时，她感到相当惊讶，乔摆出一种居高临下的态度，这显然激怒了梅格，梅格反过来又摆出一种庄严的矜持态度，把自己奉献给了她的母亲。这让乔自行其是，因为马奇太太已经接替了她担任护士，并在她长期坐月子之后嘱咐她休息、锻炼和娱乐。艾米走了，劳里是她唯一的避难所，虽然她很喜欢他的陪伴，但她当时却很害怕他，因为他是一个无可救药的戏弄者，她担心他会哄骗她这个秘密。

She was quite right, for the mischief-loving lad no sooner suspected a mystery than he set himself to find it out, and led Jo a trying life of it. He wheedled, bribed, ridiculed, threatened, and scolded; affected indifference, that he might surprise the truth from her; declared her knew, then that he didn’t care; and at last, by dint of perseverance, he satisfied himself that it concerned Meg and Mr. Brooke. Feeling indignant that he was not taken into his tutor’s confidence, he set his wits to work to devise some proper retaliation for the slight.
她说得很对，这个爱恶作剧的小伙子一旦怀疑了其中的奥秘，就立志要找出答案，并让乔过上了艰难的生活。他哄骗、贿赂、嘲笑、威胁、责骂。他假装冷漠，以便让她说出真相，让他大吃一惊。宣称她知道，然后他不在乎；最后，凭借坚持不懈的努力，他确信这与梅格和布鲁克先生有关。他对自己没有得到导师的信任感到愤慨，于是绞尽脑汁想出一些适当的报复措施来应对这种轻视。

Meg meanwhile had apparently forgotten the matter and was absorbed in preparations for her father’s return, but all of a sudden a change seemed to come over her, and, for a day or two, she was quite unlike herself. She started when spoken to, blushed when looked at, was very quiet, and sat over her sewing, with a timid, troubled look on her face. To her mother’s inquiries she answered that she was quite well, and Jo’s she silenced by begging to be let alone.
与此同时，梅格显然已经忘记了这件事，全神贯注地为父亲回来做准备，但突然之间，她似乎发生了变化，有一两天，她变得很不像自己了。她一被人说话就吓一跳，一被人看就脸红，很安静，坐在针线活上，脸上带着胆怯、不安的表情。对于母亲的询问，她回答说她很好，而乔则请求不要打扰她，让她保持沉默。

‘She feels it in the air—love, I mean—and she’s going very fast. She’s got most of the symptoms—is twittery and cross, doesn’t eat, lies awake, and mopes in corners. I caught her singing that song he gave her, and once she said ‘John’, as you do, and then turned as red as a poppy. whatever shall we do?’ said Jo, looking ready for any measures, however violent.
“她在空气中感受到了爱——我是说爱——而且她走得很快。她有大部分症状——叽叽喳喳、脾气暴躁、不吃东西、醒着躺着、在角落里闷闷不乐。我发现她唱着他给她的那首歌，有一次她像你一样说了“约翰”，然后脸红得像罂粟花一样。我们该怎么办？”乔说道，准备采取任何措施，无论多么暴力。

‘Nothing but wait. Let her alone, be kind and patient, and Father’s coming will settle everything,’ replied her mother.
‘除了等待，别无他法。让她一个人呆着，善良一点，耐心一点，爸爸来了，一切都会解决的。”妈妈回答道。

‘Here’s a note to you, Meg, all sealed up. How odd! Teddy never seals mine,’ said Jo next day, as she distributed the contents of the little post office.
“梅格，这是给你的一张纸条，全部密封起来。多么奇怪啊！泰迪从来不封我的。”第二天乔一边分发小邮局里的东西一边说道。

Mrs. March and Jo were deep in their own affairs, when a sound from Meg made them look up to see her staring at her note with a frightened face.
马奇太太和乔正沉浸在自己的事情中，这时梅格的声音让他们抬起头，看到她一脸惊恐地盯着她的纸条。

‘My child, what is it?’ cried her mother, running to her, while Jo tried to take the paper which had done the mischief.
“我的孩子，这是什么？”她的母亲跑向她，大声喊道，而乔则试图拿走那张造成恶作剧的报纸。

‘It’s all a mistake, he didn’t send it. Oh, Jo, how could you do it?’ and Meg hid her face in her hands, crying as if her heart were quite broken.
‘这都是一个错误，他没有发送。哦，乔，你怎么能这么做？”梅格用手捂住脸，哭得好像她的心都碎了。

‘Me! I’ve done nothing! What’s she talking about?’ cried Jo, bewildered.
'我！我什么也没做！ “她在说什么？”乔困惑地喊道。

Meg’s mild eyes kindled with anger as she pulled a crumpled note from her pocket and threw it at Jo, saying reproachfully, ‘You wrote it, and that bad boy helped you. How could you be so rude, so mean, and cruel to us both?’
梅格温和的眼睛里充满了愤怒，她从口袋里掏出一张皱巴巴的纸条扔给乔，责备地说：“你写的，那个坏男孩帮助了你。”你怎么能对我们俩如此粗鲁、如此刻薄、如此残忍？

Jo hardly heard her, for she and her mother were reading the note, which was written in a peculiar hand.
乔几乎没听见她说话，因为她和她母亲正在读那张用特殊字体写的字条。

‘My Dearest Margaret,
“我最亲爱的玛格丽特，

‘I can no longer restrain my passion, and must know my fate before I return. I dare not tell your parents yet, but I think they would consent if they knew that we adored one another. Mr. Laurence will help me to some good place, and then, my sweet girl, you will make me happy. I implore you to say nothing to your family yet, but to send one word of hope through Laurie to,
“我再也无法抑制我的激情，在我回来之前必须知道我的命运。”我还不敢告诉你的父母，但我想如果他们知道我们彼此相爱，他们会同意的。劳伦斯先生会带我去一些好地方，然后，我可爱的女孩，你会让我开心。我恳求你先不要对你的家人说任何话，但请通过劳里向你传达一句希望的话：

‘Your devoted John.’
“你忠诚的约翰。”

‘Oh, the little villain! That’s the way he meant to pay me for keeping my word to Mother. I’ll give him a hearty scolding and bring him over to beg pardon,’ cried Jo, burning to execute immediate justice. But her mother held her back, saying, with a look she seldom wore...
‘噢，这个小坏蛋！这就是他付给我的报酬，因为我信守了对母亲的诺言。 “我要狠狠地骂他一顿，然后带他过来请求原谅。”乔喊道，迫切地想立即执行正义。但母亲却一把拉住了她，用她很少有的表情说道……

‘Stop, Jo, you must clear yourself first. You have played so many pranks that I am afraid you have had a hand in this.’
‘停下来，乔，你必须先清理一下自己。你搞了那么多恶作剧，恐怕这件事也有你的份内。”

‘On my word, Mother, I haven’t! I never saw that note before, and don’t know anything about it, as true as I live!’ said Jo, so earnestly that they believed her. ‘If I had taken part in it I’d have done it better than this, and have written a sensible note. I should think you’d have known Mr. Brooke wouldn’t write such stuff as that,’ she added, scornfully tossing down the paper.
“我保证，妈妈，我没有！”我以前从未见过那张纸条，对此一无所知，我真的！”乔说道，语气如此真诚，以至于他们相信了她。 “如果我参与其中，我会做得比这更好，并写下明智的笔记。我想你应该知道布鲁克先生不会写这样的东西，”她补充道，轻蔑地扔掉了报纸。

‘It’s like his writing,’ faltered Meg, comparing it with the note in her hand. ‘Oh, Meg, you didn’t answer it?’ cried Mrs. March quickly.
“这就像他写的字，”梅格结结巴巴地说，将它与她手中的纸条进行比较。 “噢，梅格，你没接电话吗？”马奇太太急忙喊道。

‘Yes, I did!’ and Meg hid her face again, overcome with shame.
“是的，我做到了！”梅格再次捂住脸，羞愧难当。

‘Here’s a scrape! Do let me bring that wicked boy over to explain and be lectured. I can’t rest till I get hold of him.’ And Jo made for the door again.
‘这里有一个擦伤！请让我把那个坏小子带过来解释并教训一下。不抓住他我就不能休息。”乔又向门口走去。

‘Hush! Let me handle this, for it is worse than I thought. Margaret, tell me the whole story,’ commanded Mrs. March, sitting down by Meg, yet keeping hold of Jo, lest she should fly off.
‘嘘！让我来处理这件事，因为事情比我想象的还要糟糕。玛格丽特，告诉我整个故事，”马奇太太命令道，一边坐在梅格身边，一边紧紧抓住乔，以免她飞走。

‘I received the first letter from Laurie, who didn’t look as if he knew anything about it,’ began Meg, without looking up. ‘I was worried at first and meant to tell you, then I remembered how you liked Mr. Brooke, so I thought you wouldn’t mind if I kept my little secret for a few days. I’m so silly that I liked to think no one knew, and while I was deciding what to say, I felt like the girls in books, who have such things to do. Forgive me, Mother, I’m paid for my silliness now. I never can look him in the face again.’
“我收到了劳里的第一封信，他看起来好像对此一无所知，”梅格头也不抬地说道。 “一开始我很担心，本来想告诉你，后来我想起你有多喜欢布鲁克先生，所以我想你不会介意我把这个小秘密保守几天。我太傻了，喜欢认为没人知道，当我决定要说什么时，我觉得自己就像书里的女孩一样，有这样的事情要做。妈妈，请原谅我，我现在为我的愚蠢付出了代价。我再也不能直视他的脸了。

‘What did you say to him?’ asked Mrs. March.
“你对他说什么了？”马奇太太问。

‘I only said I was too young to do anything about it yet, that I didn’t wish to have secrets from you, and he must speak to father. I was very grateful for his kindness, and would be his friend, but nothing more, for a long while.’
“我只是说我还太年轻，还不能做任何事，我不想对你有秘密，而且他必须和父亲谈谈。我非常感谢他的好意，并且愿意成为他的朋友，但仅此而已，很长一段时间。

Mrs. March smiled, as if well pleased, and Jo clapped her hands, exclaiming, with a laugh, ‘You are almost equal to Caroline Percy, who was a pattern of prudence! Tell on, Meg. What did he say to that?’
马奇太太笑了，好像很高兴，乔拍着手，笑着喊道：“你几乎和卡罗琳·珀西一样，她是谨慎的典范！”告诉我吧，梅格。他对此说了什么？

‘He writes in a different way entirely, telling me that he never sent any love letter at all, and is very sorry that my roguish sister, Jo, should take liberties with our names. It’s very kind and respectful, but think how dreadful for me!’
“他以完全不同的方式写信，告诉我他根本没有寄过任何情书，并且对我那调皮的妹妹乔对我们名字的冒犯感到非常抱歉。”这非常友善和尊重，但想想对我来说是多么可怕！”

Meg leaned against her mother, looking the image of despair, and Jo tramped about the room, calling Laurie names. All of a sudden she stopped, caught up the two notes, and after looking at them closely, said decidedly, ‘I don’t believe Brooke ever saw either of these letters. Teddy wrote both, and keeps yours to crow over me with because I wouldn’t tell him my secret.’
梅格靠在她母亲身上，一脸绝望，乔在房间里走来走去，骂劳里。突然，她停了下来，拿起那两封信，仔细查看后，断然地说：“我不相信布鲁克曾经见过这两封信。”泰迪写了这两本，并保留了你的，以便对我大喊大叫，因为我不会告诉他我的秘密。

‘Don’t have any secrets, Jo. Tell it to Mother and keep out of trouble, as I should have done,’ said Meg warningly.
“不要有任何秘密，乔。告诉妈妈，别惹麻烦，就像我应该做的那样。”梅格警告道。

‘Bless you, child! Mother told me.’
‘祝福你，孩子！妈妈告诉我的。

‘That will do, Jo. I’ll comfort Meg while you go and get Laurie. I shall sift the matter to the bottom, and put a stop to such pranks at once.’ Away ran Jo, and Mrs. March gently told Meg Mr. Brooke’s real feelings. ‘Now, dear, what are your own? Do you love him enough to wait till her can make a home for you, or will you keep yourself quite free for the present?’
‘这样就可以了，乔。你去找劳里的时候我会安慰梅格。 “我会把事情查个水落石出，立即制止这样的恶作剧。”乔跑开了，马奇太太温柔地告诉了梅格，布鲁克先生的真实感受。 ‘现在，亲爱的，你自己的是什么？你是否足够爱他，等待她为你安家，还是让自己暂时保持自由？

‘I’ve been so scared and worried, I don’t want to have anything to do with lovers for a long while, perhaps never,’
“我一直很害怕和担心，我很长一段时间都不想和恋人有任何关系，也许永远都不想，”

answered Meg petulantly. ‘If John doesn’t know anything about this nonsense, don’t tell him, and make Jo and Laurie hold their tongues. I won’t be deceived and plagued and made a fool of. It’s a shame!’
梅格脾气暴躁地回答。 “如果约翰对这些废话一无所知，就不要告诉他，让乔和劳里闭嘴。”我不会被欺骗、困扰、被愚弄。这是一个耻辱！'

Seeing Meg’s usually gentle temper was roused and her pride hurt by this mischievous joke, Mrs. March soothed her by promises of entire silence and great discretion for the future. The instant Laurie’s step was heard in the hall, Meg fled into the study, and Mrs. March received the culprit alone. Jo had not told him why he was wanted, fearing he wouldn’t come, but he knew the minute he saw Mrs. March’s face, and stood twirling his hat with a guilty air which convicted him at once. Jo was dismissed, but chose to march up and down the hall like a sentinel, having some fear that the prisoner might bolt. The sound of voices in the parlor rose and fell for half an hour, but what happened during that interview the girls never knew.
马奇太太看到梅格一向温和的脾气被这个恶作剧激怒了，她的自尊心也受到了伤害，马奇太太答应让她完全保持沉默，并对未来保持高度谨慎，以此安抚她。大厅里一听到劳里的脚步声，梅格就逃进了书房，马奇太太独自接待了罪犯。乔没有告诉他为什么被通缉，担心他不来，但他一看到马奇太太的脸就知道了，站在那里转动帽子，脸上带着一种内疚的神情，这立刻让他确信自己有罪。乔被解雇了，但他选择像哨兵一样在大厅里走来走去，担心囚犯可能会逃跑。客厅里的说话声此起彼伏持续了半个小时，但那次采访中发生了什么，女孩们却一无所知。

When they were called in, Laurie was standing by their mother with such a penitent face that Jo forgave him on the spot, but did not think it wise to betray the fact. Meg received his humble apology, and was much comforted by the assurance that Brooke knew nothing of the joke.
当他们被叫进来时，劳里正站在他们的母亲身边，一脸悔罪，乔当场原谅了他，但认为背叛事实并不明智。梅格收到了他谦虚的道歉，并因布鲁克保证对这个笑话一无所知而感到非常安慰。

‘I’ll never tell him to my dying day, wild horses shan’t drag it out of me, so you’ll forgive me, Meg, and I’ll do anything to show how out-and-out sorry I am,’ he added, looking very much ashamed of himself.
“我永远不会告诉他，直到我死去的那一天，野马不会把它从我身上拖走，所以你会原谅我，梅格，我会做任何事情来表明我是多么彻底的抱歉， ”他补充道，看上去非常为自己感到羞愧。

‘I’ll try, but it was a very ungentlemanly thing to do, I didn’t think you could be so sly and malicious, Laurie,’ replied Meg, trying to hid her maidenly confusion under a gravely reproachful air.
“我会尽力的，但这是一件非常不绅士的事情，我没想到你会如此狡猾和恶毒，劳里，”梅格回答道，试图用一种严重责备的神情掩饰她少女般的困惑。

‘It was altogether abominable, and I don’t deserve to be spoken to for a month, but you will, though, won’t you?’ And Laurie folded his hands together with such and imploring gesture, as he spoke in his irresistibly persuasive tone, that it was impossible to frown upon him in spite of his scandalous behavior.
“这真是太可恶了，一个月之内都不值得和我说话，但你会的，不是吗？”劳里双手合十，做出恳求的姿势，用不可抗拒的语气说道。说服性的语气表明，尽管他的行为令人震惊，但不可能对他皱眉。

Meg pardoned him, and Mrs. March’s grave face relaxed, in spite of her efforts to keep sober, when she heard him declare that he would atone for his sins by all sorts of penances, and abase himself like a worm before the injured damsel.
梅格原谅了他，当马奇太太听到他宣布他将通过各种苦修来赎罪，并在受伤的少女面前像一条蠕虫一样卑躬屈膝时，尽管她努力保持清醒，但她严肃的脸放松了。

Jo stood aloof, meanwhile, trying to harden her heart against him, and succeeding only in primming up her face into an expression of entire disapprobation. Laurie looked at her once or twice, but as she showed no sign of relenting, he felt injured, and turned his back on her till the others were done with him, when he made her a low bow and walked off without a word.
与此同时，乔冷漠地站着，试图让自己的心变得更坚强，反对他，结果却成功地把脸上摆出一副完全不赞成的表情。劳里看了她一两眼，但由于她没有表现出让步的迹象，他感到很受伤，于是转过身背对着她，直到其他人都结束了他的活动，然后他向她深深鞠了一躬，一言不发地走开了。

As soon as he had gone, she wished she had been more forgiving, and when Meg and her mother went upstairs, she felt lonely and longed for Teddy. After resisting for some time, she yielded to the impulse, and armed with a book to return, went over to the big house.
他一走，她就希望自己能更宽容一点，当梅格和她妈妈上楼时，她感到孤独，渴望见到泰迪。抗拒了一段时间，她还是屈服于冲动，拎着一本书回去，向大宅走去。

‘Is Mr. Laurence in?’ asked Jo, of a housemaid, who was coming downstairs.
“劳伦斯先生在吗？”正在下楼的女佣乔问道。

‘Yes, Miss, but I don’t believe he’s seeable just yet.’
“是的，小姐，但我认为现在还看不到他。”

‘Why not? Is he ill?’
'为什么不？他病了吗？

‘La, no Miss, but he’s had a scene with Mr. Laurie, who is in one of his tantrums about something, which vexes the old gentleman, so I dursn’t go nigh him.’
“啦，不是，小姐，但他和劳里先生发生了一场戏，劳里先生正在因为某件事发脾气，这让老先生很恼火，所以我不敢靠近他。”

‘Where is Laurie?’
“劳里在哪里？”

‘Shut up in his room, and he won’t answer, though I’ve been a-tapping. I don’t know what’s to become of the dinner, for it’s ready, and there’s no one to eat it.’
“关在他的房间里，他不会回答，尽管我一直在窃听。”我不知道晚餐会怎样，因为它已经准备好了，但没有人吃。”

‘I’ll go and see what the matter is. I’m not afraid of either of them.’
‘我去看看到底是怎么回事。我不害怕他们中的任何一个。

Up went Jo, and knocked smartly on the door of Laurie’s little study.
乔起身，轻轻地敲了敲劳里小书房的门。

‘Stop that, or I’ll open the door and make you!’ called out the young gentleman in a threatening tone.
“住手，不然我就打开门把你抓走！”年轻绅士用威胁的语气喊道。

Jo immediately knocked again. The door flew open, and in she bounced before Laurie could recover from his surprise. Seeing that he really was out of temper, Jo, who knew how to manage him, assumed a contrite expression, and going artistically down upon her knees, said meekly, ‘Please forgive me for being so cross. I came to make it up, and can’t go away till I have.’
乔立即再次敲门。门突然打开了，劳里还没从惊讶中恢复过来，她就跳了进去。见他真的发脾气了，懂得驾驭他的乔脸上露出了悔恨的表情，艺术般地单膝下跪，温顺道：“请原谅我这么生气。”我是来弥补的，在弥补之前我不能离开。

‘It’s all right. Get up, and don’t be a goose, Jo,’ was the cavalier reply to her petition.
'没关系。起来吧，别做傻事，乔，”这是对她请愿书的漫不经心的答复。

‘Thank you, I will. Could I ask what’s the matter? You don’t look exactly easy in your mind.’
'谢谢你我会的。我能问一下怎么回事吗？在你看来，你并不轻松。

‘I’ve been shaken, and I won’t bear it!’ growled Laurie indignantly.
“我已经动摇了，我无法忍受！”劳里愤怒地咆哮道。

‘Who did it?’ demanded Jo.
“谁干的？”乔问道。

‘Grandfather. If it had been anyone else I’d have...’ And the injured youth finished his sentence by an energetic gesture of the right arm.
'祖父。如果是别人的话我就会……”受伤的青年用右臂有力的手势结束了这句话。

‘That’s nothing. I often shake you, and you don’t mind,’ said Jo soothingly.
'没什么。我经常摇晃你，你也不介意。”乔安慰道。

‘Pooh! You’re a girl, and it’s fun, but I’ll allow no man to shake me!’
'呸！你是个女孩，这很有趣，但我不允许任何男人动摇我！

‘I don’t think anyone would care to try it, if you looked as much like a thundercloud as you do now. Why were you treated so?’
“如果你看起来像现在一样像雷雨云，我想没有人会愿意尝试。”为什么你受到这样的对待？

‘Just because I wouldn’t say what your mother wanted me for. I’d promised not to tell, and of course I wasn’t going to break my word.’
“只是因为我不会说出你母亲要我做什么。我答应过不会说出去，当然我不会食言。

‘Couldn’t you satisfy your grandpa in any other way?’
“你就不能用其他方式让你爷爷满意吗？”

‘No, he would have the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth. I’d have told my part of the scrape, if I could without bringing Meg in. As I couldn’t, I held my tongue, and bore the scolding till the old gentleman collared me. Then I bolted, for fear I should forget myself.’
“不，他会知道真相，全部真相，除了真相什么也没有。”如果我能不把梅格带进来的话，我就会把自己的遭遇讲出来。但我做不到，我就忍住了，忍住了责骂，直到老绅士给我戴上了项圈。然后我就逃跑了，生怕忘记自己。

‘It wasn’t nice, but he’s sorry, I know, so go down and make up. I’ll help you.’
“这不太好，但他很抱歉，我知道，所以下去和好。”我会帮你。'

‘Hanged if I do! I’m not going to be lectured and pummelled by everyone, just for a bit of a frolic. I was sorry about Meg, and begged pardon like a man, but I won’t do it again, when I wasn’t in the wrong.’
‘如果我这样做的话就被绞死！我不会为了一点嬉戏而被所有人训斥和殴打。我对梅格感到抱歉，并像个男人一样请求原谅，但如果我没有错的话，我不会再这样做了。

‘He didn’t know that.’
“他不知道。”

‘He ought to trust me, and not act as if I was a baby. It’s no use, Jo, he’s got to learn that I’m able to take care of myself, and don’t need anyone’s apron string to hold on by.’ ‘What pepper pots you are! ‘ sighed Jo. ‘How do you mean to settle this affair?’
“他应该信任我，而不是把我当小孩子一样。”这是没有用的，乔，他必须知道我能够照顾自己，不需要任何人的围裙带来支撑。”“你真是个胡椒罐！ ”乔叹了口气。 “你打算如何解决这件事？”

‘Well, he ought to beg pardon, and believe me when I say I can’t tell him what the fuss’s about.’
“好吧，他应该请求原谅，相信我，我不能告诉他这是怎么回事。”

‘Bless you! He won’t do that.’
'祝福你！他不会那样做的。

‘I won’t go down till he does.’
“在他下来之前我不会下去。”

‘Now, Teddy, be sensible. Let it pass, and I’ll explain what I can. You can’t stay here, so what’s the use of being melodramatic?’
‘现在，泰迪，要理智点。让它过去吧，我会解释我能做什么。你不能留在这里，那么夸张又有什么用呢？

‘I don’t intend to stay here long, anyway. I’ll slip off and take a journey somewhere, and when Grandpa misses me he’ll come round fast enough.’ ‘I dare say, but you ought not to go and worry him.’
“反正我也不打算在这里久留。 “我敢说，但你不应该去让他担心。”

‘Don’t preach. I’ll go to Washington and see Brooke. It’s gay there, and I’ll enjoy myself after the troubles.’
‘别说教。我要去华盛顿见布鲁克。那里很快乐，在经历了麻烦之后我会很享受。”

‘What fun you’d have! I wish I could run off too,’ said Jo, forgetting her part of mentor in lively visions of martial life at the capital.
‘你会玩得多开心啊！我希望我也能逃跑。”乔说道，忘记了她在首都的生动的军事生活中扮演的导师角色。

‘Come on, then! Why not? You go and surprise your father, and I’ll stir up old Brooke. It would be a glorious joke. Let’s do it, Jo. We’ll leave a letter saying we are all right, and trot off at once. I’ve got money enough. It will do you good, and no harm, as you go to your father.’
‘那就来吧！为什么不？你去给你父亲一个惊喜，我去搅动老布鲁克。这将是一个光荣的笑话。让我们开始吧，乔。我们会留下一封信说我们没事，然后立即小跑。我有足够的钱。当你去找你父亲时，这对你有好处，没有坏处。

For a moment Jo looked as if she would agree, for wild as the plan was, it just suited her. She was tired of care and confinement, longed for change, and thoughts of her father blended temptingly with the novel charms of camps and hospitals, liberty and fun. Her eyes kindled as they turned wistfully toward the window, but they fell on the old house opposite, and she shook her head with sorrowful decision.
有那么一刻，乔看起来似乎会同意，尽管这个计划很疯狂，但这很适合她。她厌倦了照顾和监禁，渴望改变，对父亲的思念与营地和医院、自由和乐趣的新奇魅力诱人地融合在一起。她目光灼灼地望向窗外，却又落在了对面的老房子上，她悲伤地摇了摇头。

‘If I was a boy, we’d run away together, and have a capital time, but as I’m a miserable girl, I must be proper and stop at home. Don’t tempt me, Teddy, it’s a crazy plan.’
“如果我是个男孩，我们会一起逃走，度过一段美好的时光，但由于我是一个可怜的女孩，我必须得体，留在家里。别诱惑我，泰迪，这是一个疯狂的计划。”

‘That’s the fun of it,’ began Laurie, who had got a willful fit on him and was possessed to break out of bounds in some way.
“这就是乐趣所在，”劳里开始说道，她故意与他发生冲突，并且想以某种方式突破界限。

‘Hold your tongue!’ cried Jo, covering her ears. ‘Prunes and prisms’ are my doom, and I may as well make up my mind to it. I came here to moralize, not to hear things that make me skip to think of.’
“闭嘴！”乔捂住耳朵喊道。 “李子和棱镜”是我的宿命，我不妨下定决心。我来这里是为了说教，而不是为了听那些让我无法思考的事情。”

‘I know Meg would wet-blanket such a proposal, but I thought you had more spirit,’ began Laurie insinuatingly.
“我知道梅格会拒绝这样的提议，但我认为你更有精神，”劳里含沙射影地说。

‘Bad boy, be quiet! Sit down and think of your own sins, don’t go making me add to mine. If I get your grandpa to apologize for the shaking, will you give up running away?’ asked Jo seriously.
‘坏小子，安静点！坐下来想想你自己的罪孽，不要让我加在我的罪孽上。如果我让你爷爷为你的摇晃道歉，你会放弃逃跑吗？”乔严肃地问道。

‘Yes, but you won’t do it,’ answered Laurie, who wished to make up, but felt that his outraged dignity must be appeased first.
“是的，但你不会这么做，”劳里回答道，他想和好，但又觉得必须先安抚他被激怒的尊严。

‘If I can manage the young one, I can the old one,’ muttered Jo, as she walked away, leaving Laurie bent over a railroad map with his head propped up on both hands.
“如果我能照顾好小孩子，我也能照顾好老孩子。”乔一边走一边嘀咕道，留下劳里双手撑着头，弯腰看着一张铁路图。

‘Come in!’ And Mr. Laurence’s gruff voice sounded gruffer than ever, as Jo tapped at his door.
“请进！”乔敲了敲劳伦斯先生的门，劳伦斯先生粗哑的声音听起来比以前更粗哑了。

‘It’s only me, Sir, come to return a book,’ she said blandly, as she entered.
“先生，只有我来还书。”她进来时温和地说。

‘Want any more?’ asked the old gentleman, looking grim and vexed, but trying not to show it.
“还想要更多吗？”老绅士问道，他看上去表情严肃而恼怒，但尽量不表现出来。

‘Yes, please. I like old Sam so well, I think I’ll try the second volume,’ returned Jo, hoping to propitiate him by accepting a second dose of Boswell’s Johnson, as he had recommended that lively work.
'是的，请。我非常喜欢老山姆，我想我会尝试第二卷。”乔回答道，希望通过接受第二剂博斯韦尔的约翰逊来安抚他，因为他推荐了这部生动的作品。

The shaggy eyebrows unbent a little as he rolled the steps toward the shelf where the Johnsonian literature was placed. Jo skipped up, and sitting on the top step, affected to be searching for her book, but was really wondering how best to introduce the dangerous object of her visit. Mr. Laurence seemed to suspect that something was brewing in her mind, for after taking several brisk turns about the room, he faced round on her, speaking so abruptly that Rasselas tumbled face downward on the floor.
当他滚着台阶走向放置约翰逊文学的书架时，浓密的眉毛稍稍舒展了一些。乔跳起来，坐在最上面的台阶上，假装在找她的书，但实际上想知道如何最好地介绍她这次来的危险对象。劳伦斯先生似乎怀疑她脑子里正在酝酿着什么，因为在房间里轻快地转了几圈后，他转过身来面对着她，说话如此突然，拉塞拉斯脸朝下跌倒在地板上。

‘What has that boy been about? Don’t try to shield him. I know he has been in mischief by the way he acted when he came home. I can’t get a word from him, and when I threatened to shake the truth out of him he bolted upstairs and locked himself into his room.’
‘那小子到底是来干什么的？不要试图保护他。从他回家时的表现我知道他很恶作剧。我无法从他那里得到任何消息，当我威胁要向他透露真相时，他冲上楼，把自己锁在房间里。

‘He did wrong, but we forgave him, and all promised not to say a word to anyone,’ began Jo reluctantly.
“他做错了，但我们原谅了他，而且大家都答应不再对任何人说一句话，”乔不情愿地说道。

‘That won’t do. He shall not shelter himself behind a promise from you softhearted girls. If he’s done anything amiss, he shall confess, beg pardon, and be punished. Out with it, Jo. I won’t be kept in the dark.’
‘那不行。他不会用你们这些心软的姑娘们的承诺来庇护自己。如果他做错了什么，他应该承认，请求原谅，并受到惩罚。出去吧，乔。我不会被蒙在鼓里。

Mr. Laurence looked so alarming and spoke so sharply that Jo would have gladly run away, if she could, but she was perched aloft on the steps, and he stood at the foot, a lion in the path, so she had to stay and brave it out.
劳伦斯先生看起来那么令人震惊，说话也那么尖锐，如果可以的话，乔很乐意逃跑，但她高高地坐在台阶上，他站在脚下，就像路上的一头狮子，所以她不得不留下来，勇敢地走出去吧。

‘Indeed, Sir, I cannot tell. Mother forbade it. Laurie has confessed, asked pardon, and been punished quite enough. We don’t keep silence to shield him, but someone else, and it will make more trouble if you interfere. Please don’t. It was partly my fault, but it’s all right now. So let’s forget it, and talk about the RAMBLER or something pleasant.’
“确实，先生，我无法判断。母亲禁止。劳里已经认罪，请求原谅，并受到了足够的惩罚。我们沉默不是为了保护他，而是为了别人，你干涉的话会更麻烦。请不要。部分原因是我的错，但现在一切都好了。所以让我们忘记它，谈谈 RAMBLER 或一些令人愉快的事情。

‘Hang the RAMBLER! Come down and give me your word that this harum-scarum boy of mine hasn’t done anything ungrateful or impertinent. If he has, after all your kindness to him, I’ll thrash him with my own hands.’
‘把漫步者挂起来！下来向我保证，我这个鲁莽的男孩没有做过任何忘恩负义或无礼的事。如果他有的话，在你对他这么好之后，我会亲手打他。

The threat sounded awful, but did not alarm Jo, for she knew the irascible old gentleman would never lift a finger against his grandson, whatever he might say to the contrary. She obediently descended, and made as light of the prank as she could without betraying Meg or forgetting the truth.
这种威胁听起来很可怕，但乔并没有惊慌，因为她知道这位暴躁的老绅士永远不会对他的孙子动一根手指头，不管他怎么说。她顺从地下了楼，在不背叛梅格或忘记真相的情况下，尽可能地淡化这个恶作剧。

‘Hum... ha... well, if the boy held his tongue because he promised, and not from obstinacy, I’ll forgive him. He’s a stubborn fellow and hard to manage,’ said Mr. Laurence, rubbing up his hair till it looked as if he had been out in a gale, and smoothing the frown from his brow with an air of relief.
‘嗯……哈……好吧，如果这孩子因为他的承诺而闭嘴，而不是因为固执，我会原谅他。 “他是个顽固的家伙，很难管。”劳伦斯先生一边说，一边揉着自己的头发，直到头发看起来就像是在大风中被吹过一样，然后才松了口气，抚平了皱起的眉头。

‘So am I, but a kind word will govern me when all the king’s horses and all the king’s men couldn’t,’ said Jo, trying to say a kind word for her friend, who seemed to get out of one scrape only to fall into another.
“我也是，但是当国王所有的马匹和所有国王的人都做不到的时候，一句善意的话语会统治我，”乔说，试图对她的朋友说一句善意的话，她的朋友似乎只摆脱了一次擦伤落入另一个。

‘You think I’m not kind to him, hey?’ was the sharp answer.
“你认为我对他不友善，嘿？”这是尖锐的回答。

‘Oh, dear no, Sir. You are rather too kind sometimes, and then just a trifle hasty when he tries your patience. Don’t you think you are?’
“哦，亲爱的，不，先生。有时你太善良了，但当他考验你的耐心时，你却有点草率了。你不认为你是吗？

Jo was determined to have it out now, and tried to look quite placid, though she quaked a little after her bold speech. To her great relief and surprise, the old gentleman only threw his spectacles onto the table with a rattle and exclaimed frankly, ‘You’re right, girl, I am! I love the boy, but he tries my patience past bearing, and I know how it will end, if we go on so.’
乔现在决心要说出来，并试图表现得相当平静，尽管在她大胆的演讲后她有点颤抖。令她大感欣慰和惊讶的是，老先生只是把眼镜啪嗒啪嗒地扔在桌子上，坦白地说：“姑娘，你说得对，我是！”我爱这个男孩，但他让我的耐心超出了承受范围，我知道如果我们继续这样下去，结果会如何。

‘I’ll tell you, he’ll run away.’ Jo was sorry for that speech the minute it was made. She meant to warn him that Laurie would not bear much restraint, and hoped he would be more forebearing with the lad.
“我告诉你，他会逃跑。”乔在演讲一发表就感到抱歉。她的意思是警告他，劳里不会有太大的克制，并希望他对这个小伙子能更宽容一些。

Mr. Laurence’s ruddy face changed suddenly, and he sat down, with a troubled glance at the picture of a handsome man, which hung over his table. It was Laurie’s father, who had run away in his youth, and married against the imperious old man’s will. Jo fancied her remembered and regretted the past, and she wished she had held her tongue.
劳伦斯先生红润的脸色突然一变，他坐下来，不安地看了一眼挂在桌子上方的英俊男子的照片。那是劳里的父亲，他年轻时离家出走，违背这位专横的老人的意愿而结婚。乔觉得她还记得过去，并对过去感到后悔，她希望自己没有闭嘴。

‘He won’t do it unless he is very much worried, and only threatens it sometimes, when he gets tired of studying. I often think I should like to, especially since my hair was cut, so if you ever miss us, you may advertise for two boys and look among the ships bound for India.’
“除非他非常担心，否则他不会这样做，只有当他厌倦了学习时，他才会威胁这样做。我经常想我应该这样做，特别是因为我的头发被剪掉了，所以如果你想念我们，你可以登广告招聘两个男孩，然后在开往印度的船只中寻找。

She laughed as she spoke, and Mr. Laurence looked relieved, evidently taking the whole as a joke.
她边说边笑，劳伦斯先生看上去松了口气，显然把这一切当成了一个玩笑。

‘You hussy, how dare you talk in that way? Where’s your respect for me, and your proper bringing up? Bless the boys and girls! What torments they are, yet we can’t do without them,’ he said, pinching her cheeks good-humoredly. ‘Go and bring that boy down to his dinner, tell him it’s all right, and advise him not to put on tragedy airs with his grandfather. I won’t bear it.’
‘你这个贱人，怎么敢这样说话？你对我的尊重和正确的教养在哪里？祝福男孩女孩们！它们是多么的折磨，但我们又离不开它们，”他幽默地捏捏她的脸颊说道。 “去带那个男孩下来吃晚饭，告诉他没关系，并劝他不要对他的祖父摆出一副悲剧的架子。我不会忍受的。

‘He won’t come, Sir. He feels badly because you didn’t believe him when he said he couldn’t tell. I think the shaking hurt his feelings very much.’
“他不会来，先生。他感觉很糟糕，因为当他说他不知道时你不相信他。我认为震动非常伤害他的感情。

Jo tried to look pathetic but must have failed, for Mr. Laurence began to laugh, and she knew the day was won.
乔试图表现得可怜兮兮，但肯定失败了，因为劳伦斯先生开始大笑，她知道这一天胜利了。

‘I’m sorry for that, and ought to thank him for not shaking me, I suppose. What the dickens does the fellow expect?’ And the old gentleman looked a trifle ashamed of his own testiness.
“我对此感到抱歉，而且我想应该感谢他没有摇晃我。这位老先生看上去对自己的暴躁感到有点羞愧。

‘If I were you, I’d write him an apology, Sir. He says he won’t come down till he has one, and talks about Washington, and goes on in an absurd way. A formal apology will make him see how foolish he is, and bring him down quite amiable. Try it. He likes fun, and this was is better than talking. I’ll carry it up, and teach him his duty.’
“如果我是你，我会给他写一封道歉信，先生。他说，除非他有一个，否则他不会下来，并谈论华盛顿，然后以一种荒谬的方式继续下去。正式的道歉会让他看到自己有多么愚蠢，并让他变得和蔼可亲。尝试一下。他喜欢热闹，这比说话更好。我会把它扛起来，并教导他他的职责。

Mr. Laurence gave her a sharp look, and put on his spectacles, saying slowly, ‘You’re a sly puss, but I don’t mind being managed by you and Beth. Here, give me a bit of paper, and let us have done with this nonsense.’
劳伦斯先生锐利地看了她一眼，戴上眼镜，缓缓说道：“你是个狡猾的小猫，但我不介意被你和贝丝管理。”来，给我一张纸，让我们结束这些废话。”

The note was written in the terms which one gentleman would use to another after offering some deep insult. Jo dropped a kiss on the top of Mr. Laurence’s bald head, and ran up to slip the apology under Laurie’s door, advising him through the keyhole to be submissive, decorous, and a few other agreeable impossibilities. Finding the door locked again, she left the note to do its work, and was going quietly away, when the young gentleman slid down the banisters, and waited for her at the bottom, saying, with his most virtuous expression of countenance, ‘What a good fellow you are, Jo! Did you get blown up?’ he added, laughing.
这张纸条的措辞是一位绅士在对另一位绅士进行了一番严重侮辱后使用的措辞。乔在劳伦斯先生的光头顶上落下一个吻，然后跑过去把道歉信塞到劳里的门下，通过钥匙孔建议他要顺从、得体，还有一些其他令人愉快的不可能的事情。发现门又锁上了，她把纸条留下来处理，正悄悄地走开，这时年轻的绅士滑下栏杆，在楼下等她，用他最贤惠的表情说道：“什么？”乔，你是个好人！你被炸了吗？”他笑着补充道。

‘No, he was pretty mild, on the whole.’
“不，总的来说，他很温和。”

‘AH! I got it all round. Even you cast me off over there, and I felt just ready to go to the deuce,’ he began apologetically.
'啊！我都明白了。即使你把我赶到了那里，我也觉得自己已经准备好走向平局了。”他带着歉意开始说道。

‘Don’t talk that way, turn over a new leaf and begin again, Teddy, my son.’
“别那样说话，翻开新的一页，重新开始，泰迪，我的儿子。”

‘I keep turning over new leaves, and spoiling them, as I used to spoil my copybooks, and I make so many beginnings there never will be an end,’ he said dolefully.
“我不断地翻新页，并把它们弄坏，就像我以前弄坏我的习字本一样，我做了这么多的开始，但永远不会结束，”他悲伤地说。

‘Go and eat your dinner, you’ll feel better after it. Men always croak when they are hungry,’ and Jo whisked out at the front door after that.
“去吃晚饭吧，吃完之后你会感觉好多了。”男人饿了总是嘎嘎叫。”说完后，乔就冲出了前门。

‘That’s a ‘label’ on my ‘sect’,’ answered Laurie, quoting Amy, as he went to partake of humble pie dutifully with his grandfather, who was quite saintly in temper and overwhelmingly respectful in manner all the rest of the day.
“这是我的‘教派’上的‘标签’，”劳里引用艾米的话回答道，他一边尽职尽责地和祖父一起吃简陋的馅饼，祖父在这一天剩下的时间里脾气非常圣人，举止也极其恭敬。

Everyone thought the matter ended and the little cloud blown over, but the mischief was done, for though others forgot it, Meg remembered. She never alluded to a certain person, but she thought of him a good deal, dreamed dreams more than ever, and once Jo, rummaging her sister’s desk for stamps, found a bit of paper scribbled over with the words, ‘Mrs. John Brooke’, whereat she groaned tragically and cast it into the fire, feeling that Laurie’s prank had hastened the evil day for her.
每个人都以为事情结束了，小乌云散去了，但恶作剧已经完成了，因为虽然其他人忘记了，但梅格记得。她从来没有提到过某个人，但她很想念他，比以往任何时候都更爱做梦，有一次乔在姐姐的桌子上翻找邮票，发现了一张纸，上面潦草地写着“夫人”。约翰·布鲁克”，她悲惨地呻吟着，把它扔进火里，觉得劳里的恶作剧加速了她的邪恶日子。

CHAPTER TWENTY-TWO
第二十二章

Like sunshine after a storm were the peaceful weeks which followed. The invalids improved rapidly, and Mr. March began to talk or returning early in the new year. Beth was soon able to lie on the study sofa all day, amusing herself with the well-beloved cats at first, and in time with doll’s sewing, which had fallen sadly behindhand. Her once active limbs were so stiff and feeble that Jo took her for a daily airing about the house in her strong arms. Meg cheerfully blackened and burned her white hands cooking delicate messes for ‘the dear’, while Amy, a loyal slave of the ring, celebrated her return by giving away as many of her treasures as she could prevail on her sisters to accept.
接下来的几周是平静的，就像暴风雨过后的阳光一样。病人的病情迅速好转，马奇先生开始说话，或者在新年伊始就回来了。贝丝很快就可以整天躺在书房的沙发上，一开始是和那些心爱的猫一起玩耍，后来又开始做洋娃娃的缝纫工作，但不幸的是，这件事已经落后了。她曾经活跃的四肢变得如此僵硬和虚弱，乔每天都用她有力的手臂带着她在房子里散步。梅格兴高采烈地把她白皙的手涂黑、烧焦，为“亲爱的”做饭，而艾米，一个忠实的戒指奴隶，则通过尽可能多地说服姐妹们接受她的财宝来庆祝她的回归。

As Christmas approached, the usual mysteries began to haunt the house, and Jo frequently convulsed the family by proposing utterly impossible or magnificently absurd ceremonies, in honor of this unusually merry Christmas. Laurie was equally impracticable, and would have had bonfires, skyrockets, and triumphal arches, if he had had his own way. After many skirmishes and snubbings, the ambitious pair were considered effectually quenched and went about with forlorn faces, which were rather belied by explosions of laughter when the two got together.
随着圣诞节的临近，常见的谜团开始困扰着家里，乔经常提出完全不可能或极其荒谬的仪式来庆祝这个异常快乐的圣诞节，这让全家人都感到震惊。劳里同样不切实际，如果他有自己的方式，他就会有篝火、火箭和凯旋门。在经历了多次小冲突和冷落之后，这对雄心勃勃的情侣被认为实际上已经被浇灭了，他们脸上带着绝望的表情，但当两人在一起时爆发出的笑声却掩盖了这一点。

Several days of unusually mild weather fitly ushered in a splendid Christmas Day. Hannah ‘felt in her bones’ that it was going to be an unusually fine day, and she proved herself a true prophetess, for everybody and everything seemed bound to produce a grand success. To begin with, Mr. March wrote that he should soon be with them, then Beth felt uncommonly well that morning, and, being dressed in her mother’s gift, a soft crimson merino wrapper, was borne in high triumph to the window to behold the offering of Jo and Laurie. The Unquenchables had done their best to be worthy of the name, for like elves they had worked by night and conjured up a comical surprise. Out in the garden stood a stately snow maiden, crowned with holly, bearing a basket of fruit and flowers in one hand, a great roll of music in the other, a perfect rainbow of an Afghan round her chilly shoulders, and a Christmas carol issuing from her lips on a pink paper streamer.
连续几天异常温和的天气恰到好处地迎来了一个灿烂的圣诞节。汉娜“从骨子里感觉到”这将是一个异常美好的一天，她证明了自己是一位真正的女先知，因为每个人和每件事似乎都注定会取得巨大的成功。首先，马奇先生写道，他很快就会和他们在一起，然后贝丝那天早上感觉非常好，穿着她母亲的礼物，一件柔软的深红色美利奴羊毛包装纸，高高兴兴地走到窗前，观看乔和劳里的奉献。不灭者们尽了最大努力才配得上这个名字，因为他们像精灵一样在夜间工作并创造出滑稽的惊喜。花园里站着一位庄严的雪少女，头戴冬青花冠，一手提着一篮子水果和鲜花，另一只手拿着一卷美妙的音乐，一道完美的阿富汗彩虹环绕在她冰冷的肩膀上，一首圣诞颂歌响起从她的嘴唇上吐出一条粉红色的纸飘带。

THE JUNGFRAU TO BETH
少女峰到贝丝


God bless you, dear Queen Bess!
上帝保佑你，亲爱的贝丝女王！

May nothing you dismay,
愿没有什么让你沮丧，

But health and peace and happiness
但健康、平安、幸福

Be yours, this Christmas day.
成为你的，这个圣诞节。

Here’s fruit to feed our busy bee,
这是喂我们忙碌的蜜蜂的水果，

And flowers for her nose.
还有鲜花放在她的鼻子上。

Here’s music for her pianee,
这是她的钢琴音乐，

An afghan for her toes,
她的脚趾是阿富汗人的，


A portrait of Joanna, see,
乔安娜的肖像，看，

By Raphael No. 2,
拉斐尔第二号，

Who laboured with great industry
谁辛勤劳作

To make it fair and true.
使其公平、真实。


Accept a ribbon red, I beg,
接受一条红丝带，我请求，

For Madam Purrer’s tail,
对于 Purrer 女士的尾巴，

And ice cream made by lovely Peg,
还有可爱的佩格制作的冰淇淋，

A Mont Blanc in a pail.
桶中的万宝龙。


Their dearest love my makers laid
他们最亲爱的爱我的创造者

Within my breast of snow.
在我的雪的胸怀里。

Accept it, and the Alpine maid,
接受它，阿尔卑斯女仆，

From Laurie and from Jo.
来自劳里和乔。

How Beth laughed when she saw it, how Laurie ran up and down to bring in the gifts, and what ridiculous speeches Jo made as she presented them.
贝丝看到后大笑起来，劳里跑来跑去送礼物，乔在赠送礼物时发表了多么可笑的言论。

‘I’m so full of happiness, that if Father was only here, I couldn’t hold one drop more,’ said Beth, quite sighing with contentment as Jo carried her off to the study to rest after the excitement, and to refresh herself with some of the delicious grapes the ‘Jungfrau’ had sent her.
“我真是太幸福了，只要爸爸在这儿，我就再也不能再吸一滴了，”贝丝说，当乔把她带到书房去休息一下，让她在兴奋之后恢复精神时，她心满意足地叹了口气。她自己也带着“少女峰”送来的一些美味葡萄。

‘So am I,’ added Jo, slapping the pocket wherein reposed the long-desired UNDINE AND SINTRAM.
“我也是，”乔补充道，拍拍口袋，里面放着心仪已久的温迪恩和辛特拉。

‘I’m sure I am,’ echoed Amy, poring over the engraved copy of the Madonna and Child, which her mother had given her in a pretty frame.
“我确信我是这样的，”艾米重复道，同时仔细研究着《圣母与圣子》的雕刻版，这是她母亲送给她的，装在一个漂亮的画框里。

‘Of course I am!’ cried Meg, smoothing the silvery folds of her first sild dress, for Mr. Laurence had insisted on giving it. ‘How can I be otherwise?’ said Mrs. March gratefully, as her eyes went from her husband’s letter to Beth’s smiling face, and her hand carressed the brooch made of gray and golden, chestnut and dark brown hair, which the girls had just fastened on her breast.
“当然了！”梅格一边叫道，一边抚平她第一件银色连衣裙的银色褶皱，因为劳伦斯先生坚持要送它。 “我怎么能不这样呢？”马奇太太感激地说，她的目光从丈夫的信转向贝丝的笑脸，她的手抚摸着那枚由灰色、金色、栗色和深棕色头发制成的胸针，这是女孩们刚刚拥有的。固定在她的胸前。

Now and then, in this workaday world, things do happen in the delightful storybook fashion, and what a comfort it is. Half an hour after everyone had said they were so happy they could only hold one drop more, the drop came. Laurie opened the parlor door and popped his head in very quietly. He might just as well have turned a somersault and uttered an Indian war whoop, for his face was so full of suppressed excitement and his voice so treacherously joyful that everyone jumped up, though he only said, in a queer, breathless voice, ‘Here’s another Christmas present for the March family.’
有时，在这个平凡的世界里，事情确实会以令人愉快的故事书方式发生，这是多么令人安慰。就在大家都说高兴得只能多举一滴的时候，半个小时后，那一滴就来了。劳里打开客厅的门，悄悄地探进头来。他还不如翻个跟头，发出印第安人的战争呼喊声，因为他的脸上充满了压抑的兴奋，声音里充满了诡异的喜悦，让每个人都跳了起来，尽管他只是用一种奇怪的、气喘吁吁的声音说：“这是给马奇一家的又一份圣诞礼物。

Before the words were well out of his mouth, he was whisked away somehow, and in his place appeared a tall man, muffled up to the eyes, leaning on the arm of another tall man, who tried to say something and couldn’t. Of course there was a general stampede, and for several minutes everybody seemed to lose their wits, for the strangest things were done, and no one said a word.
话还没说完，他就被人突然带走了，取而代之的是一个身材高大的男人，他的头发一直遮住了眼睛，靠在另一个身材高大的男人的手臂上，后者想说什么却说不出来。当然，发生了一场普遍的踩踏事件，有几分钟，每个人似乎都失去了理智，因为最奇怪的事情发生了，没有人说一句话。

Mr. March became invisible in the embrace of four pairs of loving arms. Jo disgraced herself by nearly fainting away, and had to be doctored by Laurie in the china closet. Mr. Brooke kissed Meg entirely by mistake, as he somewhat incoherently explained. And Amy, the dignified, tumbled over a stool, and never stopping to get up, hugged and cried over her father’s boots in the most touching manner. Mrs. March was the first to recover herself, and held up her hand with a warning, ‘Hush! Remember Beth.’
马奇先生在四双充满爱意的手臂的拥抱中变得隐形了。乔差点晕过去，这让她丢脸了，不得不让劳里在瓷器柜子里给她治病。布鲁克先生完全错误地吻了梅格，他语无伦次地解释道。而堂堂的艾米，从凳子上摔倒，再也站不起来，抱住父亲的靴子痛哭流涕，令人感动。马奇夫人最先回过神来，举起手警告道：“嘘！”记住贝丝。”

But it was too late. The study door flew open, the little red wrapper appeared on the threshold, joy put strength into the feeble limbs, and Beth ran straight into her father’s arms. Never mind what happened just after that, for the full hearts overflowed, washing away the bitterness of the past and leaving only the sweetness of the present.
但为时已晚。书房的门突然打开了，红色的小包装纸出现在门槛上，喜悦给虚弱的四肢注入了力量，贝丝径直跑进了父亲的怀里。别管之后发生了什么，因为满满的心都溢出来了，洗去了过去的苦涩，只剩下现在的甜蜜。

It was not at all romantic, but a hearty laugh set everybody straight again, for Hannah was discovered behind the door, sobbing over the fat turkey, which she had forgotten to put down when she rushed up from the kitchen. As the laugh subsided, Mrs. March began to thank Mr. Brooke for his faithful care of her husband, at which Mr. Brooke suddenly remembered that Mr. March needed rest, and seizing Laurie, he precipitately retired. Then the two invalids were ordered to repose, which they did, by both sitting in one big chair and talking hard.
这一点也不浪漫，但是一阵爽朗的笑声让大家重新恢复了正常，因为汉娜被发现在门后，正在对着那只肥火鸡哭泣，当她从厨房冲上来时，她忘了把火鸡放下。笑声平息后，马奇夫人开始感谢布鲁克先生对她丈夫的忠实照顾，这时布鲁克先生突然想起马奇先生需要休息，一把抓住劳里，他就匆匆退了下去。然后，这两个病人被命令休息，他们也照做了，坐在一张大椅子上，大声说话。

Mr. March told how he had longed to surprise them, and how, when the fine weather came, he had been allowed by his doctor, to take advantage of it, how devoted Brooke had been, and how he was altogether a most estimable and upright young man. Why Mr. March paused a minute just there, and after a glance at Meg, who was violently poking the fire, looked at his wife with an inquiring lift of the eyebrows, I leave you to imagine. Also why Mrs. March gently nodded her head and asked, rather abruptly, if he wouldn’t like to have something to eat. Jo saw and understood the look, and she stalked grimly away to get wine and beef tea, muttering to herself as she slammed the door, ‘I hate estimable young men with brown eyes!’
马奇先生讲述了他多么渴望给他们一个惊喜，当好天气来临时，他的医生如何允许他利用这个机会，布鲁克是多么忠诚，以及他如何成为一个最值得尊敬和最值得尊敬的人。正直的年轻人。为什么马奇先生就在那儿停顿了一分钟，看了一眼正在猛烈地戳火的梅格，然后疑惑地扬起眉毛看了看他的妻子，我让你想象一下。这也是为什么马奇夫人轻轻地点了点头，然后相当突然地问他是否不想吃点东西。乔看到并理解了这种表情，她冷酷地大步走开，去拿酒和牛肉茶，关上门时自言自语道：“我讨厌那些长着棕色眼睛的可敬年轻人！”

There never was such a Christmas dinner as they had that day. The fat turkey was a sight to behold, when Hannah sent him up, stuffed, browned, and decorated. So was the plum pudding, which melted in one’s mouth, likewise the jellies, in which Amy reveled like a fly in a honeypot. Everything turned out well, which was a mercy, Hannah said, ‘For my mind was that flustered, Mum, that it’s a merrycle I didn’t roast the pudding, and stuff the turkey with raisins, let alone bilin’ of it in a cloth.’
他们从来没有像那天那样吃过如此丰盛的圣诞晚餐。当汉娜把火鸡送上来时，那只肥肥的火鸡已经填满了馅，变成了棕色，还装饰好了。梅子布丁也是如此，入口即化，果冻也是如此，艾米像蜜罐里的苍蝇一样陶醉其中。一切都很好，这是一种仁慈，汉娜说，“因为我的心慌了，妈妈，我没有烤布丁，也没有在火鸡里塞上葡萄干，更不用说把它装进锅里了，这真是太幸福了。”布。'

Mr. Laurence and his grandson dined with them, also Mr. Brooke, at whom Jo glowered darkly, to Laurie’s infinite amusement. Two easy chairs stood side by side at the head of the table, in which sat Beth and her father, feasting modestly on chicken and a little fruit. They drank healths, told stories, sang songs, ‘reminisced’, as the old folks say, and had a thoroughly good time. A sleigh ride had been planned, but the girls would not leave their father, so the guests departed early, and as twilight gathered, the happy family sat together round the fire.
劳伦斯先生和他的孙子和他们一起吃饭，还有布鲁克先生，乔阴沉地瞪着布鲁克先生，这让劳里觉得很有趣。桌子的一头并排放着两把安乐椅，贝丝和她的父亲坐在上面，正悠闲地享用着鸡肉和一点水果。他们喝着健康酒，讲着故事，唱着歌，用老人们的话说“怀旧”，度过了一段美好的时光。原本计划乘坐雪橇，但女孩们不愿离开她们的父亲，所以客人们提前离开了，当暮色降临时，幸福的一家人围坐在火边。

‘Just a year ago we were groaning over the dismal Christmas we expected to have. Do you remember?’ asked Jo, breaking a short pause which had followed a long conversation about many things.
“就在一年前，我们还在为我们期待的惨淡圣诞节而呻吟。你还记得吗？”乔问道，打破了一场关于很多事情的长时间谈话后的短暂停顿。

‘Rather a pleasant year on the whole!’ said Meg, smiling at the fire, and congratulating herself on having treated Mr. Brooke with dignity.
“总的来说，这是相当愉快的一年！”梅格对着炉火微笑着说道，并庆幸自己尊重了布鲁克先生。

‘I think it’s been a pretty hard one,’ observed Amy, watching the light shine on her ring with thoughtful eyes.
“我认为这是一个相当艰难的过程，”艾米说道，她用若有所思的眼睛看着灯光照在她的戒指上。

‘I’m glad it’s over, because we’ve got you back,’ whispered Beth, who sat on her father’s knee.
“我很高兴一切都结束了，因为我们把你救回来了，”坐在父亲膝盖上的贝丝低声说道。

‘Rather a rough road for you to travel, my little pilgrims, especially the latter part of it. But you have got on bravely, and I think the burdens are in a fair way to tumble off very soon,’ said Mr. March, looking with fatherly satisfaction at the four young faces gathered round him.
“我的小朝圣者们，你们要走的路相当崎岖，尤其是后半段。但你们已经勇敢地前进了，我认为负担很快就会减轻，”马奇先生说道，带着慈父般的满足感看着聚集在他周围的四张年轻的面孔。

‘How do you know? Did Mother tell you?’ asked Jo.
'你怎么知道？妈妈告诉你了吗？”乔问。

‘Not much. Straws show which way the wind blows, and I’ve made several discoveries today.’
'不多。吸管可以显示风向，今天我有了一些发现。”

‘Oh, tell us what they are!’ cried Meg, who sat beside him.
“哦，告诉我们它们是什么！”坐在他旁边的梅格喊道。

‘Here is one.’ And taking up the hand which lay on the arm of his chair, he pointed to the roughened forefinger, a burn on the back, and two or three little hard spots on the palm. ‘I remember a time when this hand was white and smooth, and your first care was to keep it so. It was very pretty then, but to me it is much prettier now, for in this seeming blemishes I read a little history. A burnt offering has been made to vanity, this hardened palm has earned something better than blisters, and I’m sure the sewing done by these pricked fingers will last a long time, so much good will went into the stitches. Meg, my dear, I value the womanly skill which keeps home happy more than white hands or fashionable accomplishments. I’m proud to shake this good, industrious little hand, and hope I shall not soon be asked to give it away.’
“这是一个。”他拿起放在椅子扶手上的手，指着粗糙的食指、背上的烧伤处和手掌上的两三个小硬点。 “我记得有一段时间，这只手洁白光滑，你首先关心的就是保持它如此。那时它非常漂亮，但对我来说现在更漂亮，因为在这些看似的瑕疵中我读到了一些历史。为虚荣心献上燔祭，这坚硬的手掌赢得了比水泡更好的东西，我相信这些被刺破的手指所做的缝纫将持续很长时间，缝线中注入了如此多的善意。梅格，亲爱的，我更看重让家庭幸福的女性技巧，而不是白皙的双手或时尚的成就。我很自豪能与这只善良、勤奋的小手握手，并希望我不会很快被要求放弃它。

If Meg had wanted a reward for hours of patient labor, she received it in the hearty pressure of her father’s hand and the approving smile he gave her.
如果梅格想要对数小时耐心劳动的奖励，她会在父亲的手的大力压力和他给她的认可微笑中得到它。

‘What about Jo? Please say something nice, for she has tried so hard and been so very, very good to me,’ said Beth in her father’s ear.
‘乔呢？请说一些好听的话，因为她已经很努力了，对我也非常非常好。”贝丝在父亲耳边说道。

He laughed and looked across at the tall girl who sat opposite, with and unusually mild expression in her face.
他笑了笑，看向对面坐着的高个子女孩，脸上的表情异常温和。

‘In spite of the curly crop, I don’t see the ‘son Jo’ whom I left a year ago,’ said Mr. March. ‘I see a young lady who pins her collar straight, laces her boots neatly, and neither whistles, talks slang, nor lies on the rug as she used to do. Her face is rather thin and pale just now, with watching and anxiety, but I like to look at it, for it has grown gentler, and her voice is lower. She doesn’t bounce, but moves quietly, and takes care of a certain little person in a motherly way which delights me. I rather miss my wild girl, but if I get a strong, helpful, tenderhearted woman in her place, I shall feel quite satisfied. I don’t know whether the shearing sobered our black sheep, but I do know that in all Washington I couldn’t find anything beautiful enough to be bought with the five-and-twenty dollars my good girl sent me.’
“尽管有一头卷发，但我没有看到我一年前离开的‘儿子乔’，”马奇先生说。 “我看到一位年轻女士，她把衣领别得很直，把靴子系得很整齐，既不吹口哨，也不说俚语，也不像以前那样躺在地毯上。刚才她的脸色有些消瘦，苍白，带着注视和焦急，但我喜欢看它，因为它变得温和了，声音也低了。她不弹跳，而是安静地移动，以慈母般的方式照顾某个小人物，这让我很高兴。我很想念我的狂野女孩，但如果我有一个坚强、乐于助人、心地善良的女人代替她，我会感到很满足。我不知道剪羊毛是否让我们的害群之马清醒过来，但我确实知道，在整个华盛顿，我找不到任何漂亮的东西可以用我的好女孩寄给我的五到二十美元购买。

Jo’s keen eyes were rather dim for a minute, and her thin face grew rosy in the firelight as she received her father’s praise, feeling that she did deserve a portion of it.
乔锐利的目光有一瞬间黯淡下来，瘦小的脸庞在火光下变得红润，接受了父亲的夸奖，觉得自己确实应该得到一份。

‘Now, Beth,’ said Amy, longing for her turn, but ready to wait.
“现在，贝丝，”艾米说，她渴望轮到她，但又做好了等待的准备。

‘There’s so little of her, I’m afraid to say much, for fear she will slip away altogether, though she is not so shy as she used to be,’ began their father cheerfully. But recollecting how nearly he had lost her, he held her close, saying tenderly, with her cheek against his own, ‘I’ve got you safe, my Beth, and I’ll keep you so, please God.’
“她的事太少了，我不敢说太多，因为担心她会完全溜走，尽管她不像以前那么害羞了，”他们的父亲高兴地说道。但回想起他差一点就失去了她，他紧紧地抱住她，用她的脸颊贴着他的脸，温柔地说：“我保证了你的安全，我的贝丝，上帝保佑，我会保护你的。”

After a minute’s silence, he looked down at Amy, who sat on the cricket at his feet, and said, with a caress of the shining hair...
沉默了一分钟后，他低头看着坐在他脚边蟋蟀上的艾米，抚摸着闪亮的头发说道……

‘I observed that Amy took drumsticks at dinner, ran errands for her mother all the afternoon, gave Meg her place tonight, and has waited on every on with patience and good humor. I also observe that she does not fret much nor look in the glass, and has not even mentioned a very pretty ring which she wears, so I conclude that she has learned to think of other people more and of herself less, and has decided to try and mold her character as carefully as she molds her little clay figures. I am glad of this, for though I should be very proud of a graceful statue made by her, I shall be infinitely prouder of a lovable daughter with a talent for making life beautiful to herself and others.’
“我观察到艾米在晚餐时拿着鸡腿，整个下午为她母亲跑腿，今晚给梅格让座，并且耐心而幽默地等待着每一件事。我还观察到，她并没有太多烦恼，也没有照镜子，甚至没有提到她戴着的一枚非常漂亮的戒指，所以我得出的结论是，她已经学会了更多地为别人着想，更少地为自己着想，并决定尝试像塑造小泥人一样仔细地塑造她的性格。我对此感到很高兴，因为虽然我应该为她制作的优雅雕像感到非常自豪，但我会为一个可爱的女儿感到无比自豪，她有让自己和他人的生活变得美丽的天赋。

‘What are you thinking of, Beth?’ asked Jo, when Amy had thanked her father and told about her ring.
“你在想什么，贝丝？”当艾米感谢她的父亲并讲述了她的戒指时，乔问道。

‘I read in PILGRIM’S PROGRESS today how, after many troubles, christian and Hopeful came to a pleasant green meadow where lilies bloomed all year round, and there they rested happily, as we do now, before they went on to their journey’s end,’ answered Beth, adding, as she slipped out of her father’s arms and went to the instrument, ‘It’s singing time now, and I want to be in my old place. I’ll try to sing the song of the shepherd boy which the Pilgrims heard. I made the music for Father, because he likes the verses.’
“我今天在《天路历程》中读到，基督徒和满怀希望的人历尽千辛万苦，来到一片宜人的绿色草地，百合花一年四季都盛开，他们在那里快乐地休息，就像我们现在一样，然后继续前往旅程的终点​​。”贝丝回答道，当她从父亲的怀抱中溜出来，走向乐器时，她补充道，“现在是唱歌的时间了，我想回到原来的地方。”我会尝试唱清教徒们听到的牧童之歌。我为父亲创作了音乐，因为他喜欢这些诗句。”

So, sitting at the dear little piano, Beth softly touched the keys, and in the sweet voice they had never thought to hear again, sang to her own accompaniment the quaint hymn, which was a singularly fitting song for her.
于是，贝丝坐在可爱的小钢琴前，轻轻地碰着琴键，用他们从未想过会再次听到的甜美声音，在自己的伴奏下唱起了那首古朴的赞美诗，这对她来说是一首非常适合的歌曲。

He that is down need fear no fall,
跌倒的人不必害怕跌倒，

He that is low no pride.
卑贱者无骄傲。

He that is humble ever shall
谦卑的人永远

Have God to be his guide.
让上帝作为他的向导。


I am content with what I have,
我对我所拥有的感到满足

Little be it, or much.
要么很少，要么很多。

And, Lord! Contentment still I crave,
还有，主啊！我仍然渴望满足，

Because Thou savest such.
因为你拯救了这样的人。


Fulness to them a burden is,
充实对他们来说是一种负担，

That go on pilgrimage.
那去朝圣吧。

Here little, and hereafter bliss,
这里的小事，以及今后的幸福，

Is best from age to age!
最好是从年龄到年龄！

CHAPTER TWENTY-THREE
第二十三章

Like bees swarming after their queen, mother and daughters hovered about Mr. March the next day, neglecting everything to look at, wait upon, and listen to the new invalid, who was in a fair way to be killed by kindness. As he sat propped up in a big chair by Beth’s sofa, with the other three close by, and Hannah popping in her head now and then ‘to peek at the dear man’, nothing seemed needed to complete their happiness. But something was needed, and the elder ones felt it, though none confessed the fact. Mr. and Mrs. March looked at one another with an anxious expression, as their eyes followed Meg. Jo had sudden fits of sobriety, and was seen to shake her fist at Mr. Brooke’s umbrella, which had been left in the hall. Meg was absent-minded, shy, and silent, started when the bell rang, and colored when John’s name was mentioned. Amy said, ‘Everyone seemed waiting for something, and couldn’t settle down, which was queer, since Father was safe at home,’ and Beth innocently wondered why their neighbors didn’t run over as usual.
第二天，母女俩就像蜂拥而至的蜂后一样，在马奇先生周围盘旋，全神贯注地观察、侍候、聆听这位新来的病人，他很可能会被仁慈杀死。当他靠在贝丝沙发旁的一张大椅子上，其他三个人就在附近时，汉娜时不时地在她的脑海里“偷看一眼亲爱的男人”，似乎没有什么可以让他们的幸福变得圆满。但有些东西是需要的，年长的人也感觉到了，尽管没有人承认这一事实。马奇夫妇一脸焦急地看着对方，目光也跟着梅格。乔突然清醒了，有人看到她对布鲁克先生留在大厅的雨伞挥舞着拳头。梅格心不在焉、害羞、沉默寡言，铃声一响，她就惊呆了，而当提到约翰的名字时，她脸色就红了。艾米说：“每个人似乎都在等待着什么，却无法安定下来，这很奇怪，因为父亲在家很安全。”贝丝天真地想知道为什么他们的邻居没有像往常一样跑过来。

Laurie went by in the afternoon, and seeing Meg at the window, seemed suddenly possessed with a melodramatic fit, for he fell down on one knee in the snow, beat his breast, tore his hair, and clasped his hands imploringly, as if begging some boon. And when Meg told him to behave himself and go away, he wrung imaginary tears out of his handkerchief, and staggered round the corner as if in utter despair.
下午劳里路过，看见梅格在窗边，他似乎突然间戏剧性地发作了，因为他单膝跪在雪地里，捶胸顿足，撕扯着头发，双手紧握，哀求着，仿佛在乞求。一些恩惠。当梅格叫他规矩点走开时，他从手帕里拧出了想象中的眼泪，摇摇晃晃地绕过拐角，仿佛完全绝望了。

‘What does the goose mean?’ said Meg, laughing and trying to look unconscious.
“那只鹅是什么意思？”梅格笑着说，试图让自己看起来没有意识。

‘He’s showing you how your John will go on by-and-by. Touchin, isn’t it?’ answered Jo scornfully.
“他正在向你展示你的约翰将如何继续下去。 “太棒了，不是吗？”乔轻蔑地回答。

‘Don’t say my John, it isn’t proper or true,’ but Meg’s voice lingered over the words as if they sounded pleasant to her. ‘Please don’t plague me, Jo, I’ve told you I don’t care much about him, and there isn’t to be anything said, but we are all to be friendly, and go on as before.’
“别说我的约翰，这既不恰当也不真实，”但梅格的声音在这句话中萦绕不去，仿佛这些话对她来说听起来很愉快。 “请不要困扰我，乔，我已经告诉过你我不太关心他，也没什么可说的，但我们都要友好，像以前一样继续下去。”

‘We can’t, for something has been said, and Laurie’s mischief has spoiled you for me. I see it, and so does Mother. You are not like your old self a bit, and seem ever so far away from me. I don’t mean to plague you and will bear it like a man, but I do wish it was all settled. I hate to wait, so if you mean ever to do it, make haste and have it over quickly,’ said Jo pettishly.
“我们不能，因为有人说过，劳里的恶作剧已经把你宠坏了。”我看到了，妈妈也看到了。你一点也不像以前的自己，似乎离我那么遥远。我无意打扰你，我会像个男人一样忍受它，但我确实希望这一切都能解决。我讨厌等待，所以如果你想这么做，就赶快行动，快点结束吧。”乔生气地说。

‘I can’t say anything till he speaks, and he won’t, because Father said I was too young,’ began Meg, bending over her work with a queer little smile, which suggested that she did not quite agree with her father on that point.
“在他开口之前我什么都不能说，他也不会说，因为父亲说我太年轻了。”梅格开始说道，一边弯下腰看着她的工作，脸上带着一丝奇怪的微笑，这表明她不太同意父亲的观点。在这一点上。

‘If he did speak, you wouldn’t know what to say, but would cry or blush, or let him have his own way, instead of giving a good, decided no.’
“如果他真的开口了，你不知道该说什么，只会哭泣或脸红，或者让他为所欲为，而不是给出一个好的、决定不的答案。”

‘I’m not so silly and weak as you think. I know just what I should say, for I’ve planned it all, so I needn’t be taken unawares. There’s no knowing what may happen, and I wished to be prepared.’
‘我并不像你想象的那么愚蠢和软弱。我知道我应该说什么，因为这一切都是我计划好的，所以我不必措手不及。不知道会发生什么，我希望做好准备。

Jo couldn’t help smiling at the important air which Meg had unconsciously assumed and which was as becoming as the pretty color varying in her cheeks.
乔忍不住对梅格无意识地表现出的重要神态微笑起来，这种神态与她脸颊上不同的漂亮颜色一样恰到好处。

‘Would you mind telling me what you’d say?’ asked Jo more respectfully.
“你介意告诉我你要说什么吗？”乔更加恭敬地问道。

‘Not at all. You are sixteen now, quite old enough to be my confidente, and my experience will be useful to you by-and-by, perhaps, in your own affairs of this sort.’
'一点也不。你现在十六岁了，已经足够大了，可以做我的知己了，我的经验也许很快就会对你有用，也许，在你自己的这类事务中。

‘Don’t mean to have any. It’s fun to watch other people philander, but I should feel like a fool doing it myself,’ said Jo, looking alarmed at the thought.
‘我并不是说要拥有任何东西。看着别人打情骂俏很有趣，但我自己这样做应该觉得自己像个傻瓜。”乔说道，一想到这个想法就显得很惊慌。

‘I think not, if you liked anyone very much, and he liked you.’ Meg spoke as if to herself, and glanced out at the lane where she had often seen lovers walking together in the summer twilight.
“我想不会，如果你非常喜欢某个人，而他也喜欢你。”梅格仿佛自言自语般说道，同时瞥了一眼窗外的小巷，那里是她经常看到夏日暮色中恋人一起散步的地方。

‘I thought you were going to tell your speech to that man,’ said Jo, rudely shortening her sister’s little reverie.
“我以为你要把你的演讲讲给那个人听，”乔粗鲁地打断了她姐姐的小遐想。

‘Oh, I should merely say, quite calmly and decidedly, ‘Thank you, Mr. Brooke, you are very kind, but I agree with Father that I am too young to enter into any engagement at present, so please say no more, but let us be friends as we were.’
“噢，我应该平静而坚决地说，‘谢谢你，布鲁克先生，你非常好心，但我同意父亲的看法，我还太年轻，目前无法订婚，所以请不要再说了，但让我们像以前一样成为朋友吧。

‘Hum, that’s stiff and cool enough! I don’t believe you’ll ever say it, and I know he won’t be satisfied if you do. If he goes on like the rejected lovers in books, you’ll give in, rather than hurt his feelings.’
‘嗯，够硬够凉的！我不相信你会说出来，而且我知道如果你说了他也不会满意。如果他继续像书中被拒绝的恋人一样，你会屈服，而不是伤害他的感情。

‘No, I won’t. I shall tell him I’ve made up my mind, and shall walk out of the room with dignity.’
‘不，我不会。我会告诉他我已经下定决心，并有尊严地走出房间。

Meg rose as she spoke, and was just going to rehearse the dignified exit, when a step in the hall made her fly into her seat and begin to sew as fast as if her life depended on finishing that particular seam in a given time. Jo smothered a laugh at the sudden change, and when someone gave a modest tap, opened the door with a grim aspect which was anything but hospitable.
梅格一边说一边站了起来，正准备排练一下庄严的退出仪式，这时大厅里的一步脚步声让她飞到了座位上，开始缝纫，速度很快，就好像她的生命取决于在给定时间内完成那条特定的缝线一样。乔因突然的变化而忍俊不禁，当有人温和地敲了敲门时，他打开了门，表情冷酷，一点也不热情。

‘Good afternoon. I came to get my umbrella, that is, to see how your father finds himself today,’ said Mr. Brooke, getting a trifle confused as his eyes went from one telltale face to the other.
'下午好。 “我是来拿伞的，就是想看看你父亲今天怎么样了。”布鲁克先生说，当他的目光从一张泄露秘密的脸转向另一张脸时，他感到有点困惑。

‘It’s very well, he’s in the rack. I’ll get him, and tell it you are here.’ And having jumbled her father and the umbrella well together in her reply, Jo slipped out of the room to give Meg a chance to make her speech and air her dignity. But the instant she vanished, Meg began to sidle toward the door, murmuring...
‘很好，他在架子上。我会去找他，告诉他你在这里。”乔在回答中将父亲和雨伞混在一起，然后溜出了房间，给梅格一个机会发表讲话并展示她的尊严。但她一消失，梅格就开始侧身向门口走去，低声说道……

‘Mother will like to see you. Pray sit down, I’ll call her.’
‘妈妈会很高兴见到你。请坐下，我会打电话给她。

‘Don’t go. Are you afraid of me, Margaret?’ And Mr. Brooke looked so hurt that Meg thought she must have done something very rude. She blushed up to the little curls on her forehead, for he had never called her Margaret before, and she was surprised to find how natural and sweet it seemed to hear him say it. Anxious to appear friendly and at her ease, she put out her hand with a confiding gesture, and said gratefully...
‘别走。你害怕我吗，玛格丽特？”布鲁克先生看起来很受伤，梅格认为她一定做了一些非常粗鲁的事情。她的脸红到了额头上的小卷发，因为他以前从未叫过她玛格丽特，她惊讶地发现听到他这么说是多么自然和甜蜜。她急于表现出友好和轻松，伸出手做出倾诉的姿势，感激地说……

‘How can I be afraid when you have been so kind to Father? I only wish I could thank you for it.’
‘你对父亲这么好，我怎么会害怕呢？我只希望能为此向你表示感谢。

‘Shall I tell you how?’ asked Mr. Brooke, holding the small hand fast in both his own, and looking down at Meg with so much love in the brown eyes that her heart began to flutter, and she both longed to run away and to stop and listen.
“要我告诉你怎么做吗？”布鲁克先生问道，他双手紧紧握着小手，低头看着梅格，棕色的眼睛里充满爱意，以至于她的心开始颤动，两人都渴望逃跑。并停下来听。

‘Oh no, please don’t, I’d rather not,’ she said, trying to withdraw her hand, and looking frightened in spite of her denial.
“哦，不，请不要，我不想，”她说，试图抽回手，尽管她否认，但她看起来很害怕。

‘I won’t trouble you. I only want to know if you care for me a little, Meg. I love you so much, dear,’ added Mr. Brooke tenderly.
‘我不会麻烦你的。我只想知道你是否有点关心我，梅格。我非常爱你，亲爱的，”布鲁克先生温柔地补充道。

This was the moment for the calm, proper speech, but Meg didn’t make it. She forgot every word of it, hung her head, and answered, ‘I don’t know,’ so softly that John had to stoop down to catch the foolish little reply.
这是冷静、得体的演讲的时刻，但梅格没有来。她忘记了其中的每一个字，低下头，回答道：“我不知道。”声音如此轻柔，以至于约翰不得不弯下腰才能听到这个愚蠢的小回答。

He seemed to think it was worth the trouble, for he smiled to himself as if quite satisfied, pressed the plump hand gratefully, and said in his most persuasive tone, ‘Will you try and find out? I want to know so much, for I can’t go to work with any heart until I learn whether I am to have my reward in the end or not.’
他似乎觉得这样的麻烦是值得的，他自顾自地笑了笑，似乎很满意，感激地握着胖胖的手，用他最有说服力的语气说道：“你愿意尝试一下吗？”我想知道很多，因为在我知道我最终是否会得到回报之前，我无法用任何心去工作。

‘I’m too young,’ faltered Meg, wondering was she was so fluttered, yet rather enjoying it.
“我太年轻了，”梅格结结巴巴地说，她想知道自己是不是太激动了，但又很享受。

‘I’ll wait, and in the meantime, you could be learning to like me. Would it be a very hard lesson, dear?’
“我会等，与此同时，你可以学着喜欢我。”亲爱的，这会是一个非常艰难的教训吗？

‘Not if I chose to learn it, but…’
“如果我选择学习的话就不会，但是……”

‘Please choose to learn, Meg. I love you to teach, and this is easier than German,’ broke in John, getting possession of the other hand, so that she had no way of hiding her face as he bent to look into it.
“请选择学习，梅格。我喜欢你教书，这比德语容易多了。”约翰插话道，同时抓住了另一只手，这样当他弯下腰去看时，她就无法遮住脸了。

His tone was properly beseeching, but stealing a shy look at him, Meg saw that his eyes were merry as well as tender, and that he wore the satisfied smile of one who had no doubt of his success. This nettled her. Annie Moffat’s foolish lessons in coquetry came into her mind, and the love of power, which sleeps in the bosoms of the best of little women, woke up all of a sudden and took possession of her. She felt excited and strange, and not knowing what else to do, followed a capricious impulse, and, withdrawing her hands, said petulantly, ‘I don’t choose. Please go away and let me be!’
他的语气恰到好处地恳求，但梅格偷偷地羞涩地看了他一眼，发现他的眼睛既快乐又温柔，他脸上挂着满足的微笑，对自己的成功毫不怀疑。这让她很恼火。安妮·莫法特愚蠢的卖弄风情的教训浮现在她的脑海里，沉睡在最优秀小女人怀里的对权力的热爱突然苏醒并占据了她。她感到兴奋又奇怪，不知道还能做什么，随心所欲地收回了双手，没好气地说：“我不选择。”请走开，让我去吧​​！

Poor Mr. Brooke looked as if his lovely castle in the air was tumbling about his ears, for he had never seen Meg in such a mood before, and it rather bewildered him.
可怜的布鲁克先生看上去就像是他可爱的空中楼阁在耳边翻滚，因为他以前从未见过梅格有这样的心情，这让他很困惑。

‘Do you really mean that?’ he asked anxiously, following her as she walked away.
“你真的是这个意思吗？”当她走开时，他焦急地问道。

‘Yes, I do. I don’t want to be worried about such things. Father says I needn’t, it’s too soon and I’d rather not.’
'是的，我愿意。我不想担心这些事情。父亲说我不需要，现在还太早，我不想。”

‘Mayn’t I hope you’ll change your mind by-and-by? I’ll wait and say nothing till you have had more time. Don’t play with me, Meg. I didn’t think that of you.’
“我难道不希望你很快就会改变主意吗？”我会等着，什么也不说，直到你有更多的时间。别跟我玩，梅格。我没想到你。

‘Don’t think of me at all. I’d rather you wouldn’t,’ said Meg, taking a naughty satisfaction in trying her lover’s patience and her own power. He was grave and pale now, and looked decidedly more like the novel heroes whom she admired, but he neither slapped his forehead nor tramped about the room as they did. He just stood looking at her so wistfully, so tenderly, that she found her heart relenting in spite of herself. What would have happened next I cannot say, if Aunt March had not come hobbling in at this interesting minute.
‘根本就别想我。 “我宁愿你不要这么做。”梅格说道，在尝试她爱人的耐心和她自己的力量时，她获得了顽皮的满足感。他现在脸色严肃，脸色苍白，看起来显然更像她所崇拜的小说英雄，但他既没有拍打额头，也没有像他们那样在房​​间里走来走去。他只是站在那里，如此渴望、如此温柔地看着她，让她发现自己的心不由自主地软化了。如果马奇姨妈没有在这个有趣的时刻一瘸一拐地进来，接下来会发生什么，我无法预测。

The old lady couldn’t resist her longing to see her nephew, for she had met Laurie as she took her airing, and hearing of Mr. March’s arrival, drove straight out to see him. The family were all busy in the back part of the house, and she had made her way quietly in, hoping to surprise them. She did surprise two of them so much that Meg started as if she had seen a ghost, and Mr. Brooke vanished into the study.
老太太无法抗拒见到侄子的渴望，因为她在播出时遇见了劳里，听说马奇先生到来，就直接开车去看他。一家人都在房子后面忙碌着，她悄悄地走进来，希望给他们一个惊喜。她确实让他们两个人大吃一惊，梅格吓了一跳，好像看到了鬼一样，布鲁克先生则消失在书房里。

‘Bless me, what’s all this?’ cried the old lady with a rap of her cane as she glanced from the pale young gentleman to the scarlet young lady.
“上帝啊，这到底是怎么回事？”老妇人一边敲着拐杖一边喊道，她的目光从苍白的年轻绅士转向猩红色的年轻女士。

‘It’s Father’s friend. I’m so surprised to see you!’ stammered Meg, feeling that she was in for a lecture now.
‘这是父亲的朋友。见到你我太惊讶了！”梅格结结巴巴地说，她觉得自己现在正在听讲座。

‘That’s evident,’ returned Aunt March, sitting down. ‘But what is Father’s friend saying to make you look like a peony? There’s mischief going on, and I insist upon knowing what it is,’ with another rap.
“这很明显，”马奇姨妈坐下来回答道。 ‘但是父亲的朋友说什么让你看起来像牡丹呢？恶作剧正在发生，我坚持要知道那是什么，”又说唱道。

‘We were only talking. Mr. Brooke came for his umbrella,’ began Meg, wishing that Mr. Brooke and the umbrella were safely out of the house.
‘我们只是在说话。 “布鲁克先生来拿雨伞了。”梅格开始说道，她希望布鲁克先生和雨伞能够安全地走出家门。

‘Brooke? That boy’s tutor? Ah! I understand now. I know all about it. Jo blundered into a wrong message in one of your Father’s letters, and I made her tell me. You haven’t gone and accepted him, child?’ cried Aunt March, looking scandalized.
‘布鲁克？那个男孩的导师？啊!我现在知道了。我知道这一切。乔在你父亲的一封信中犯了一个错误的信息，我让她告诉我。 “孩子，你还没去接受他吗？”马奇姨妈喊道，看上去很震惊。

‘Hush! He’ll hear. Shan’t I call Mother?’ said Meg, much troubled.
‘嘘！他会听到的。我不能打电话给妈妈吗？”梅格很烦恼地说。

‘Not yet. I’ve something to say to you, and I must free my mind at once. Tell me, do you mean to marry this Cook? If you do, not one penny of my money ever goes to you. Remember that, and be a sensible girl,’ said the old lady impressively.
'还没有。我有话要对你说，我必须立刻释放我的思绪。告诉我，你想嫁给这个厨师吗？如果你这样做了，我的一分钱都不会归你所有。记住这一点，做一个懂事的女孩。”老太太印象深刻地说。

Now Aunt March possessed in perfection the art of rousing the spirit of opposition in the gentlest people, and enjoyed doing it. The best of us have a spice of perversity in us, especially when we are young and in love. If Aunt March had begged Meg to accept John Brooke, she would probably have declared she couldn’t think of it, but as she was preemptorily ordered not to like him, she immediately made up her mind that she would. Inclination as well as perversity made the decision easy, and being already much excited, Meg opposed the old lady with unusual spirit. ‘I shall marry whom I please, Aunt March, and you can leave your money to anyone you like,’ she said, nodding her head with a resolute air.
现在，马奇姨妈完美地掌握了激发最温和的人的反抗精神的艺术，并且乐于这样做。我们中最优秀的人身上都有一种任性的味道，尤其是当我们年轻且恋爱的时候。如果马奇婶婶恳求梅格接受约翰·布鲁克，她可能会宣称自己想不到，但由于她被预先命令不要喜欢他，所以她立即下定决心一定要喜欢他。倾向和固执使这个决定变得很容易，梅格已经很兴奋了，她以不同寻常的精神反对老太太。 “我想嫁给谁就嫁给谁，马奇姨妈，你可以把钱留给你喜欢的任何人。”她坚定地点点头说道。

‘Highty-tighty! Is that the way you take my advice, Miss? You’ll be sorry for it by-and-by, when you’ve tried love in a cottage and found it a failure.’
‘高紧！小姐，你就是这么接受我的建议的吗？当你在小屋里尝试爱情却发现失败时，你很快就会后悔的。

‘It can’t be a worse one than some people find in big houses,’ retorted Meg.
“这不会比一些人在大房子里看到的更糟糕了，”梅格反驳道。

Aunt March put on her glasses and took a look at the girl, for she did not know her in this new mood. Meg hardly knew herself, she felt so brave and independent, so glad to defend John and assert her right to love him, if she liked. Aunt March saw that she had begun wrong, and after a little pause, made a fresh start, saying as mildly as she could, ‘Now, Meg, my dear, be reasonable and take my advice. I mean it kindly, and don’t want you to spoil your whole life by making a mistake at the beginning. You ought to marry well and help your family. It’s your duty to make a rich match and it ought to be impressed upon you.’
马奇姨妈戴上眼镜，看了看这个女孩，因为她不认识她现在的心情。梅格几乎不认识自己，她感到如此勇敢和独立，如此高兴地捍卫约翰并维护她爱他的权利，如果她愿意的话。马奇姨妈发现自己一开始就错了，停顿了一下，又重新开始，尽可能温和地说：“现在，梅格，亲爱的，讲道理，听听我的建议。”我是善意的，不希望你因为一开始就犯错误而毁掉你的一生。你应该嫁得好，帮助你的家人。安排一场丰盛的比赛是你的责任，你应该对此印象深刻。

‘Father and Mother don’t think so. They like John though he is poor.’
‘爸爸和妈妈不这么认为。他们喜欢约翰，尽管他很穷。

‘Your parents, my dear, have no more worldly wisdom than a pair of babies.’
“亲爱的，你的父母没有比一对婴儿更多的世俗智慧。”

‘I’m glad of it,’ cried Meg stoutly.
“我很高兴，”梅格大声喊道。

Aunt March took no notice, but went on with her lecture. ‘This Rook is poor and hasn’t got any rich relations, has he?’
马奇姨妈没有在意，继续讲课。 “这个鲁克很穷，没有任何富有的亲戚，是吗？”

‘No, but he has many warm friends.’
“不，但他有很多热情的朋友。”

‘You can’t live on friends, try it and see how cool they’ll grow. He hasn’t any business, has he?’
“你不能靠朋友生活，尝试一下，看看他们会变得多么酷。他没有任何事，是吗？

‘Not yet. Mr. Laurence is going to help him.’
'还没有。劳伦斯先生会帮助他的。

‘That won’t last long. James Laurence is a crotchety old fellow and not to be depended on. So you intend to marry a man without money, position, or business, and go on working harder than you do now, when you might be comfortable all your days by minding me and doing better? I thought you had more sense, Meg.’
‘这不会持续太久。詹姆斯·劳伦斯是个脾气暴躁的老家伙，不值得依赖。所以你打算嫁给一个没有钱、没有地位、没有生意的男人，然后继续比现在更加努力地工作，这样你就可以通过关心我并做得更好来过上舒适的日子了？我以为你更有理智，梅格。

‘I couldn’t do better if I waited half my life! John is good and wise, he’s got heaps of talent, he’s willing to work and sure to get on, he’s so energetic and brave. Everyone likes and respects him, and I’m proud to think he cares for me, though I’m so poor and young and silly,’ said Meg, looking prettier than ever in her earnestness.
‘就算我等半辈子也不能做得更好！约翰善良又聪明，他很有才华，他愿意工作并且一定会取得进展，他是如此充满活力和勇敢。每个人都喜欢并尊重他，我很自豪地认为他关心我，尽管我是如此贫穷、年轻和愚蠢，”梅格说道，她的真诚看起来比以往任何时候都漂亮。

‘He knows you have got rich relations, child. That’s the secret of his liking, I suspect.’
“他知道你有富有的亲戚，孩子。我怀疑这就是他喜欢的秘密。

‘Aunt March, how dare you say such a thing? John is above such meanness, and I won’t listen to you a minute if you talk so,’ cried Meg indignantly, forgetting everything but the injustice of the old lady’s suspicions. ‘My John wouldn’t marry for money, any more than I would. We are willing to work and we mean to wait. I’m not afraid of being poor, for I’ve been happy so far, and I know I shall be with him because he loves me, and I...’
‘马奇姨妈，你怎么敢说这样的话？约翰是不会这么卑鄙的，如果你这么说话，我一分钟都不会听你的。”梅格愤怒地喊道，她忘记了一切，只记得老太太的怀疑是不公正的。 “我的约翰不会为了钱而结婚，就像我一样。我们愿意工作，也愿意等待。我不怕穷，因为到目前为止我一直很幸福，我知道我会和他在一起，因为他爱我，而我……”

Meg stopped there, remembering all of a sudden that she hadn’t made up her mind, that she had told ‘her John’ to go away, and that he might be overhearing her inconsistent remarks.
梅格停了下来，突然想起自己还没有下定决心，她已经让“她的约翰”走开，而他可能会无意中听到她前后矛盾的言论。

Aunt March was very angry, for she had set her heart on having her pretty niece make a fine match, and something in the girl’s happy young face made the lonely old woman feel both sad and sour.
马奇婶婶很生气，因为她一心想让自己漂亮的侄女门当户对，而女孩那张快乐的年轻脸上的某种东西让这个孤独的老太婆感到既悲伤又酸涩。

‘Well, I wash my hands of the whole affair! You are a willful child, and you’ve lost more than you know by this piece of folly. No, I won’t stop. I’m disappointed in you, and haven’t spirits to see your father now. Don’t expect anything from me when you are married. Your Mr. Book’s friends must take care of you. I’m done with you forever.’
‘好吧，我对这整件事洗心革面！你是个任性的孩子，你的愚蠢行为给你带来的损失比你想象的还要多。不，我不会停止。我对你很失望，现在没有精神去见你的父亲。当你结婚后，不要对我抱有任何期望。你的书先生的朋友必须照顾你。我和你永远了结了。

And slamming the door in Meg’s face, Aunt March drove off in high dudgeon. She seemed to take all the girl’s courage with her, for when left alone, Meg stood for a moment, undecided whether to laugh or cry. Before she could make up her mind, she was taken possession of by Mr. Brooke, who said all in one breath, ‘I couldn’t help hearing, Meg. Thank you for defending me, and Aunt March for proving that you do care for me a little bit.’
马奇姨妈当着梅格的面关上车门，怒气冲冲地开车走了。她似乎带走了女孩所有的勇气，因为当独自一人时，梅格站了一会儿，不确定是笑还是哭。还没等她做出决定，她就被布鲁克先生占据了，他一口气说道：“我忍不住要听，梅格。”谢谢你为我辩护，也谢谢马奇阿姨证明你确实有点关心我。”

‘I didn’t know how much till she abused you,’ began Meg.
“我不知道她虐待了你多少次，”梅格开始说道。

‘And I needn’t go away, but my stay and be happy, may I, dear?’
“我不必离开，但我可以留下来并快乐，可以吗，亲爱的？”

Here was another fine chance to make the crushing speech and the stately exit, but Meg never thought of doing either, and disgraced herself forever in Jo’s eyes by meekly whispering, ‘Yes, John,’ and hiding her face on Mr. Brooke’s waistcoat.
这是另一个发表压倒性演讲和庄严退场的好机会，但梅格从未想过这样做，她温顺地低声说：“是的，约翰”，并将脸藏在布鲁克先生的背心上，这让自己在乔眼中永远丢脸。

Fifteen minutes after Aunt March’s departure, Jo came softly downstairs, paused an instant at the parlor door, and hearing no sound within, nodded and smiled with a satisfied expression, saying to herself, ‘She has seen him away as we planned, and that affair is settled. I’ll go and hear the fun, and have a good laugh over it.’
马奇姨妈走后十五分钟，乔轻手轻脚地下了楼，在客厅门口停了下来，听不见里面有任何声音，满意地点点头，微笑着，自言自语道：“她已经按照我们的计划把他送走了，而且事情已经解决了。我会去听听有趣的事情，然后开怀大笑。

But poor Jo never got her laugh, for she was transfixed upon the threshold by a spectacle which held her there, staring with her mouth nearly as wide open as her eyes. Going in to exult over a fallen enemy and to praise a strong-minded sister for the banishment of an objectionable lover, it certainly was a shock to behold the aforesaid enemy serenely sitting on the sofa, with the strongminded sister enthroned upon his knee and wearing an expression of the most abject submission. Jo gave a sort of gasp, as if a cold shower bath had suddenly fallen upon her, for such an unexpected turning of the tables actually took her breath away. At the odd sound the lovers turned and saw her. Meg jumped up, looking both proud and shy, but ‘that man’, as Jo called him, actually laughed and said coolly, as he kissed the astonished newcomer, ‘Sister Jo, congratulate us!’
但可怜的乔从来没有笑过，因为她在门槛上被眼前的景象惊呆了，她的嘴几乎和眼睛一样张得大大的。走进去为倒下的敌人而欢欣鼓舞，并赞扬一位意志坚强的姐妹驱逐了一个令人反感的情人，看到上述敌人安详地坐在沙发上，而意志坚强的姐妹坐在他的膝盖上，穿着衣服，这确实令人震惊。表达最卑鄙的顺从。乔倒吸了一口冷气，仿佛突然被洗了个冷水澡，如此意想不到的逆转，着实让她屏住了呼吸。听到奇怪的声音，这对恋人转过身来，看到了她。梅格跳了起来，看上去既骄傲又害羞，但“那个男人”（乔这样称呼他）实际上笑了，在亲吻惊讶的新人时冷静地说，“乔姐妹，祝贺我们！”

That was adding insult to injury, it was altogether too much, and making some wild demonstration with her hands, Jo vanished without a word. Rushing upstairs, she startled the invalids by exclaiming tragically as she burst into the room, ‘Oh, do somebody go down quick! John Brooke is acting dreadfully, and Meg likes it!’
这真是雪上加霜，实在是太过分了，乔用双手做了一些疯狂的示范，一言不发地消失了。她冲上楼，冲进房间时悲惨地喊道：“噢，快点下去吧！”约翰·布鲁克的表现很糟糕，而梅格喜欢这样！”

Mr. and Mrs. March left the room with speed, and casting herself upon the be, Jo cried and scolded tempestuously as she told the awful news to Beth and Amy. The little girls, however, considered it a most agreeable and interesting event, and Jo got little comfort from them, so she went up to her refuge in the garret, and confided her troubles to the rats.
马奇先生和夫人迅速离开了房间，乔扑倒在地，边哭边骂骂咧咧，把这个可怕的消息告诉了贝丝和艾米。然而，小女孩们认为这是一件最愉快、最有趣的事情，乔从她们那里得不到什么安慰，所以她走到阁楼上的避难所，向老鼠倾诉了她的烦恼。

Nobody ever knew what went on in the parlor that afternoon, but a great deal of talking was done, and quiet Mr. Brooke astonished his friends by the eloquence and spirit with which he pleaded his suit, told his plans, and persuaded them to arrange everything just as he wanted it.
没有人知道那天下午客厅里发生了什么，但是人们谈论了很多，安静的布鲁克先生的口才和精神使他的朋友们感到惊讶，他提出自己的诉求，讲述了他的计划，并说服他们安排一切都如他所愿。

The tea bell rang before he had finished describing the paradise which he meant to earn for Meg, and he proudly took her in to supper, both looking so happy that Jo hadn’t the heart to be jealous or dismal. Amy was very much impressed by John’s devotion and Meg’s dignity, Beth beamed at them from a distance, while Mr. and Mrs. March surveyed the young couple with such tender satisfaction that it was perfectly evident Aunt March was right in calling them as ‘unworldly as a pair of babies’. No one ate much, but everyone looked very happy, and the old room seemed to brighten up amazingly when the first romance of the family began there.
他还没有描述完为梅格争取的天堂，茶铃声就响了，他自豪地带她去吃晚饭，两人看起来都很幸福，乔不忍心嫉妒或沮丧。约翰的忠诚和梅格的尊严给艾米留下了深刻的印象，贝丝远远地对着他们微笑，而马奇先生和夫人则温柔地满意地打量着这对年轻夫妇，马奇姨妈称他们为“不食人间烟火”的说法是正确的。作为一对婴儿。没有人吃得太多，但每个人看起来都很高兴，当家庭的第一次浪漫开始时，旧房间似乎惊人地明亮起来。

‘You can’t say nothing pleasant ever happens now, can you, Meg?’ said Amy, trying to decide how she would group the lovers in a sketch she was planning to make. ‘No, I’m sure I can’t. How much has happened since I said that! It seems a year ago,’ answered Meg, who was in a blissful dream lifted far above such common things as bread and butter.
“你不能说现在没有发生过任何令人愉快的事情，是吗，梅格？”艾米说，试图决定如何将这对恋人分组到她计划制作的草图中。 ‘不，我确信我不能。自从我说了这句话之后，发生了多少事情啊！好像是一年前的事了。”梅格回答道，她正沉浸在幸福的梦境中，梦境远远高于面包和黄油等常见事物。

‘The joys come close upon the sorrows this time, and I rather think the changes have begun,’ said Mrs. March. ‘In most families there comes, now and then, a year full of events. This has been such a one, but it ends well, after all.’
“这一次，欢乐紧随悲伤而来，我宁愿认为变化已经开始，”马奇夫人说。 “在大多数家庭中，时不时地会有充满事件的一年。就是这样，但毕竟结局很好。

‘Hope the next will end better,’ muttered Jo, who found it very hard to see Meg absorbed in a stranger before her face, for Jo loved a few persons very dearly and dreaded to have their affection lost or lessened in any way. ‘I hope the third year from this will end better. I mean it shall, if I live to work out my plans,’ said Mr. Brooke, smiling at Meg, as if everything had become possible to him now.
“希望接下来会有更好的结局，”乔低声说道，她发现很难看到梅格在她面前全神贯注于一个陌生人，因为乔非常深爱着一些人，害怕他们的感情以任何方式失去或减少。 “我希望第三年能够有更好的结局。我的意思是，如果我能活着制定出我的计划的话，那就一定会的。”布鲁克先生对梅格微笑着说道，仿佛现在一切对他来说都变得可能了。

‘Doesn’t it seem very long to wait?’ asked Amy, who was in a hurry for the wedding.
“是不是感觉等待的时间很长？”急着参加婚礼的艾米问道。

‘I’ve got so much to learn before I shall be ready, it seems a short time to me,’ answered Meg, with a sweet gravity in her face never seen there before.
“在我准备好之前，我还有很多东西要学，这对我来说似乎是很短的时间，”梅格回答道，脸上带着前所未有的甜蜜严肃。

‘You have only to wait, I am to do the work,’ said John beginning his labors by picking up Meg’s napkin, with an expression which caused Jo to shake her head, and then say to herself with an air of relief as the front door banged, ‘Here comes Laurie. Now we shall have some sensible conversation.’
“你只需等待，我来完成工作，”约翰拿起梅格的餐巾开始了他的工作，他的表情让乔摇了摇头，然后带着如释重负的神情自言自语道。门砰地一声响了，“劳里来了。”现在我们应该进行一些明智的对话。

But Jo was mistaken, for Laurie came prancing in, overflowing with good spirits, bearing a great bridal-looking bouquet for ‘Mrs. John Brooke’, and evidently laboring under the delusion that the whole affair had been brought about by his excellent management.
但乔错了，因为劳里精神抖擞地大步走了进来，手里拿着一束看起来像新娘的大花束，送给“乔夫人”。约翰·布鲁克”，显然他误以为整个事件都是他出色的管理造成的。

‘I knew Brooke would have it all his own way, he always does, for when he makes up his mind to accomplish anything, it’s done though the sky falls,’ said Laurie, when he had presented his offering and his congratulations.
“我知道布鲁克会按照自己的方式行事，他总是这样做，因为当他下定决心要完成任何事情时，即使天塌下来，它也完成了，”劳里在献上他的奉献和祝贺时说道。

‘Much obliged for that recommendation. I take it as a good omen for the future and invite you to my wedding on the spot,’ answered Mr. Brooke, who felt at peace with all mankind, even his mischievous pupil.
“非常感谢这个建议。我认为这是对未来的好兆头，邀请你当场参加我的婚礼。”布鲁克先生回答道，他对全人类，甚至是他顽皮的学生，都感到和睦。

‘I’ll come if I’m at the ens of the earth, for the sight of Jo’s face alone on that occasion would be worth a long journey. You don’t look festive, ma’am, what’s the matter?’ asked Laurie, following her into a corner of the parlor, whither all had adjourned to greet Mr. Laurence.
“如果我在地球的尽头，我也会来的，因为那时只要看到乔的脸就值得长途跋涉。 “小姐，你看起来不太高兴，出了什么事？”劳里问道，跟着她走进客厅的一个角落，所有人都到那里迎接劳伦斯先生。

‘I don’t approve of the match, but I’ve made up my mind to bear it, and shall not say a word against it,’ said Jo solemnly. ‘You can’t know how hard it is for me to give up Meg,’ she continued with a little quiver in her voice. ‘You don’t give her up. You only go halves,’ said Laurie consolingly.
“我不赞成这门亲事，但我已下定决心要忍受，不会说任何反对的话。”乔郑重地说。 “你不可能知道放弃梅格对我来说有多难，”她继续说道，声音有点颤抖。 ‘你不放弃她。你只走了一半。”劳里安慰道。

‘It can never be the same again. I’ve lost my dearest friend,’ sighed Jo.
‘它再也不会一样了。我失去了我最亲爱的朋友。”乔叹息道。

‘You’ve got me, anyhow. I’m not good for much, I know, but I’ll stand by you, Jo, all the days of my life. Upon my word I will!’ And Laurie meant what he said.
‘无论如何，你已经得到了我。我知道，我没什么用处，但我会一生支持你，乔。我发誓我会的！”劳里说的是实话。

‘I know you will, and I’m ever so much obliged. You are always a great comfort to me, Teddy,’ returned Jo, gratefully shaking hands. ‘Well, now, don’t be dismal, there’s a good fellow. It’s all right you see. Meg is happy, Brooke will fly round and get settled immediately, Grandpa will attend to him, and it will be very jolly to see Meg in her own little house. We’ll have capital times after she is gone, for I shall be through college before long, and then we’ll go abroad on some nice trip or other. Wouldn’t that console you?’
“我知道你会的，我非常感激。泰迪，你总是给我很大的安慰。”乔回答道，感激地和我握手。 ‘好吧，现在别沮丧，有一个好人。你看就可以了。梅格很高兴，布鲁克会飞来飞去，立即安顿下来，爷爷会照顾他，看到梅格在自己的小房子里会很高兴。她走后，我们将度过一段美好的时光，因为我很快就会读完大学，然后我们就会去国外进行一些愉快的旅行或其他。这难道不会安慰你吗？

‘I rather think it would, but there’s no knowing what may happen in three years,’ said Jo thoughtfully.
“我宁愿这么认为，但不知道三年后会发生什么，”乔若有所思地说。

‘That’s true. Don’t you wish you could take a look forward and wee where we shall all be then? I do,’ returned Laurie.
'这是真的。难道你不希望你能向前看一下我们那时会在哪里吗？我愿意，”劳里回答道。

‘I think not, for I might see something sad, and everyone looks so happy now, I don’t believe they could be much improved.’ And Jo’s eyes went slowly round the room, brightening as they looked, for the prospect was a pleasant one.
“我想不会，因为我可能会看到一些悲伤的事情，而现在每个人看起来都很高兴，我不相信他们能有太大改善。”乔的眼睛慢慢地环视房间，看起来很明亮，因为前景是美好的。令人愉快的一个。

Father and Mother sat together, quietly reliving the first chapter of the romance which for them began some twenty years ago. Amy was drawing the lovers, who sat apart in a beautiful world of their own, the light of which touched their faces with a grace the little artist could not copy. Beth lay on her sofa, talking cheerily with her old friend, who held her little hand as if he felt that it possessed the power to lead him along the peaceful way she walked. Jo lounged in her favorite low seat, with the grave quiet look which best became her, and Laurie, leaning on the back of her chair, his chin on a level with her curly head, smiled with his friendliest aspect, and nodded at her in the long glass which reflected them both.
父亲和母亲坐在一起，静静地重温着他们二十多年前开始的浪漫的第一章。艾米正在画这对恋人，他们分开坐在自己的美丽世界里，世界的光芒照在他们脸上，带着一种小艺术家无法复制的优雅。贝丝躺在沙发上，和她的老朋友愉快地交谈着，老朋友握着她的小手，仿佛觉得它有力量带领他走上她平静的路。乔懒洋洋地坐在她最喜欢的低矮座位上，一脸严肃、安静的表情最适合她，而劳里靠在椅背上，下巴与她的卷发头齐平，以最友善的表情微笑着，用最友善的方式向她点点头。长玻璃映照着他们俩。

So the curtain falls upon Meg, Jo, Beth, and Amy. Whether it ever rises again, depends upon the reception given the first act of the domestic drama called LITTLE WOMEN.
这样，梅格、乔、贝丝和艾米就落下了帷幕。能否再次崛起，取决于国产剧《小妇人》第一幕的反响。

LITTLE WOMEN PART 2
小妇人第二部分

CHAPTER TWENTY-FOUR
第二十四章

In order that we may start afresh and go to Meg’s wedding with free minds, it will be well to begin with a little gossip about the Marches. And here let me premise that if any of the elders think there is too much ‘lovering’ in the story, as I fear they may (I’m not afraid the young folks will make that objection), I can only say with Mrs. March, ‘What can you expect when I have four gay girls in the house, and a dashing young neighbor over the way?’
为了让我们能够重新开始，以自由的心态去参加梅格的婚礼，最好从一些关于游行的八卦开始。在这里我假设，如果有哪个长辈认为故事里有太多“爱”，我担心他们可能会这样（我不怕年轻人会反对），我只能和夫人说。马奇，“当我家里有四个同性恋女孩，对面还有一个帅气的年轻邻居时，你还能指望什么呢？”

The three years that have passed have brought but few changes to the quiet family. The war is over, and Mr. March safely at home, busy with his books and the small parish which found in him a minister by nature as by grace, a quiet, studious man, rich in the wisdom that is better than learning, the charity which calls all mankind ‘brother’, the piety that blossoms into character, making it august and lovely.
三年过去了，这个平静的家庭并没有发生什么变化。战争结束了，马奇先生安全地回到家中，忙于他的书本和小教区，在他身上发现他是一个天生的牧师，一个安静、好学的人，富有比学习更好的智慧，慈善，称全人类为“兄弟”，虔诚，在品格中绽放，使其庄严而可爱。

These attributes, in spite of poverty and the strict integrity which shut him out from the more worldly successes, attracted to him many admirable persons, as naturally as sweet herbs draw bees, and as naturally he gave them the honey into which fifty years of hard experience had distilled no bitter drop. Earnest young men found the gray-headed scholar as young at heart as they, thoughtful or troubled women instinctively brought their doubts to him, sure of finding the gentlest sympathy, the wisest counsel. Sinners told their sins to the pure-hearted old man and were both rebuked and saved. Gifted men found a companion in him. Ambitious men caught glimpses of nobler ambitions than their own, and even worldlings confessed that his beliefs were beautiful and true, although ‘they wouldn’t pay’.
尽管贫穷和严格的正直使他无法获得更世俗的成功，但这些品质仍然吸引了许多令人钦佩的人，就像甜草自然地吸引蜜蜂一样，他自然而然地给了他们五十年辛苦劳作的蜂蜜。经验并没有蒸馏出苦涩的一滴。认真的年轻人发现这位白发学者和他们一样心地年轻，有思想或陷入困境的女人本能地向他提出疑虑，肯定会找到最温柔的同情和最明智的建议。罪人向这位纯洁的老人诉说自己的罪孽，既受到斥责，又得到拯救。有才华的人在他身上找到了伴侣。雄心勃勃的人瞥见了比他们自己更高尚的野心，甚至世俗之人也承认他的信仰是美丽而真实的，尽管“他们不会付钱”。

To outsiders the five energetic women seemed to rule the house, and so they did in many things, but the quiet scholar, sitting among his books, was still the head of the family, the household conscience, anchor, and comforter, for to him the busy, anxious women always turned in troublous times, finding him, in the truest sense of those sacred words, husband and father.
在外人看来，这五个精力充沛的女人似乎统治着这个家，她们在很多事情上都是如此，但坐在书堆里的安静学者仍然是一家之主，是家庭的良心、锚和安慰者，因为对他来说忙碌、焦虑的女人们总是在困难时期寻找他，在这些神圣词语的最真实意义上，丈夫和父亲。

The girls gave their hearts into their mother’s keeping, their souls into their father’s, and to both parents, who lived and labored so faithfully for them, they gave a love that grew with their growth and bound them tenderly together by the sweetest tie which blesses life and outlives death.
女孩们把自己的心交给了母亲，把灵魂交给了父亲，而对于那些忠实地为她们生活和劳作的父母，她们给予了随着她们的成长而增长的爱，并用最甜蜜的纽带将他们温柔地联系在一起，祝福他们。生命比死亡更长久。

Mrs. March is as brisk and cheery, though rather grayer, than when we saw her last, and just now so absorbed in Meg’s affairs that the hospitals and homes still full of wounded ‘boys’ and soldiers’ widows, decidedly miss the motherly missionary’s visits.
马奇夫人和我们上次见到她时一样活泼开朗，虽然头发灰白一些，而且刚才她全神贯注于梅格的事务，以至于医院和家里仍然挤满了受伤的“男孩”和士兵的遗孀，她显然很想念这位慈母传教士的母亲。访问。

John Brooke did his duty manfully for a year, got wounded, was sent home, and not allowed to return. He received no stars or bars, but he deserved them, for he cheerfully risked all he had, and life and love are very precious when both are in full bloom. Perfectly resigned to his discharge, he devoted himself to getting well, preparing for business, and earning a home for Meg. With the good sense and sturdy independence that characterized him, he refused Mr. Laurence’s more generous offers, and accepted the place of bookkeeper, feeling better satisfied to begin with an honestly earned salary than by running any risks with borrowed money.
约翰·布鲁克英勇地履行了一年的职责，受伤后被送回家，并且不被允许返回。他没有获得星星或酒吧，但他应得的，因为他高兴地冒着自己拥有的一切的风险，当生命和爱情都盛开时，它们是非常宝贵的。他完全接受了自己的退伍，全身心投入到康复、准备生意以及为梅格建立一个家中。凭借他所特有的良好判断力和坚定的独立性，他拒绝了劳伦斯先生更慷慨的提议，并接受了簿记员的职位，他觉得从诚实赚取的薪水开始比用借来的钱冒任何风险更满意。

Meg had spent the time in working as well as waiting, growing womanly in character, wise in housewifely arts, and prettier than ever, for love is a great beautifier. She had her girlish ambitions and hopes, and felt some disappointment at the humble way in which the new life must begin. Ned Moffat had just married Sallie Gardiner, and Meg couldn’t help contrasting their fine house and carriage, many gifts, and splendid outfit with her own, and secretly wishing she could have the same. But somehow envy and discontent soon vanished when she thought of all the patient love and labor John had put into the little home awaiting her, and when they sat together in the twilight, talking over their small plans, the future always grew so beautiful and bright that she forgot Sallie’s splendor and felt herself the richest, happiest girl in Christendom.
梅格把时间花在工作和等待上，她的性格变得越来越女性化，家庭主妇的技巧也越来越聪明，而且比以前更加漂亮，因为爱情是伟大的美化剂。她有少女般的抱负和希望，但对新生活必须以卑微的方式开始感到有些失望。内德·莫法特刚刚与莎莉·加德纳结婚，梅格忍不住将他们漂亮的房子和马车、许多礼物和华丽的服装与自己的进行对比，并暗自希望自己也能拥有同样的东西。但不知何故，当她想到约翰为等待她的这个小家付出的所有耐心的爱和劳动，当他们在暮色中坐在一起，谈论他们的小计划时，未来总是变得如此美丽和光明，嫉妒和不满很快就消失了她忘记了莎莉的辉煌，觉得自己是基督教世界最富有、最幸福的女孩。

Jo never went back to Aunt March, for the old lady took such a fancy to AMy that she bribed her with the offer of drawing lessons from one of the best teachers going, and for the sake of this advantage, Amy would have served a far harder mistress. So she gave her mornings to duty, her afternoons to pleasure, and prospered finely. Jo meantime devoted herself to literature and Beth, who remained delicate long after the fever was a thing of the past. Not an invalid exactly, but never again the rosy, healthy creature she had been, yet always hopeful, happy, and serene, and busy with the quiet duties she loved, everyone’s friend, and an angel in the house, long before those who loved her most had learned to know it.
乔再也没有回到马奇婶婶身边，因为老太太太喜欢艾米了，所以她贿赂了她，提出要向一位最好的老师学习，为了这个好处，艾米愿意在很远的地方服务。更难的女主人。于是，她把上午的时间用来工作，下午的时间用来娱乐，事业蒸蒸日上。与此同时，乔致力于文学，贝丝则在发烧过去很久之后仍然保持着脆弱的状态。确切地说，她并不是一个病人，但她再也没有像以前那样红润、健康，但她总是充满希望、快乐、平静，忙于她所爱的安静的职责，是每个人的朋友，也是家里的天使，早在那些爱她的人之前她大部分人都知道这一点。

As long as THE SPREAD EAGLE paid her a dollar a column for her ‘rubbish’, as she called it, Jo felt herself a woman of means, and spun her little romances diligently. But great plans fermented in her busy brain and ambitious mind, and the old tin kitchen in the garret held a slowly increasing pile of blotted manuscript, which was one day to place the name of March upon the roll of fame.
只要《展翅之鹰》为她的“垃圾”（她称之为“垃圾”）每专栏支付一美元，乔就觉得自己是一个有钱的女人，并勤奋地编织着她的小浪漫。但伟大的计划在她忙碌的大脑和雄心勃勃的头脑中酝酿着，阁楼上的旧锡制厨房里堆着一堆慢慢增加的污迹手稿，有一天，马奇的名字将被列入名人榜。

Laurie, having dutifully gone to college to please his grandfather, was now getting through it in the easiest possible manner to please himself. A universal favorite, thanks to money, manners, much talent, and the kindest heart that ever got its owner into scrapes by trying to get other people out of them, he stood in great danger of being spoiled, and probably would have been, like many another promising boy, if he had not possessed a talisman against evil in the memory of the kind old man who was bound up in his success, the motherly friend who watched over him as if he were her son, and last, but not least by any means, the knowledge that four innocent girls loved, admired, and believed in him with all their hearts.
劳里尽职尽责地上大学是为了取悦他的祖父，现在他正在以最简单的方式来取悦自己。由于金钱、举止、才华横溢，以及试图让其他人摆脱困境而使主人陷入困境的最善良的心，他受到普遍的喜爱，他面临着被宠坏的巨大危险，而且很可能会像这样许多其他有前途的男孩，如果他没有在记忆中拥有一个抵御邪恶的护身符，那就是那位与他的成功息息相关的善良老人，那位像母亲一样照顾他的慈母朋友，以及最后但并非最不重要的一点无论如何，我知道四个天真的女孩全心全意地爱着他、崇拜着他、相信着他。

Being only ‘a glorious human boy’, of course he frolicked and flirted, grew dandified, aquatic, sentimental, or gymnastic, as college fashions ordained, hazed and was hazed, talked slang, and more than once came perilously near suspension and expulsion. But as high spirits and the love of fun were the causes of these pranks, he always managed to save himself by frank confession, honorable atonement, or the irresistible power of persuasion which he possessed in perfection. In fact, he rather prided himself on his narrow escapes, and liked to thrill the girls with graphic accounts of his triumphs over wrathful tutors, dignified professors, and vanquished enemies. The ‘men of my class’, were heroes in the eyes of the girls, who never wearied of the exploits of ‘our fellows’, and were frequently allowed to bask in the smiles of these great creatures, when Laurie brought them home with him.
作为一个“光荣的人类男孩”，他当然会嬉闹、调情，变得花花公子、水灵灵、多愁善感，或者体操，就像大学时尚所规定的那样，被欺负和被欺负，说俚语，不止一次险些被停学和开除。但这些恶作剧的起因是兴高采烈和贪玩，所以他总是能通过坦白的忏悔、光荣的赎罪或他所拥有的完美的不可抗拒的说服力来拯救自己。事实上，他对自己的死里逃生颇为自豪，并喜欢用生动的描述来让女孩们兴奋不已，讲述他战胜了愤怒的导师、威严的教授和被击败的敌人。 “我班上的男人”是女孩们眼中的英雄，她们从不厌倦“我们同胞”的功绩，当劳里把他们带回家时，她们经常被允许沐浴在这些伟大生物的微笑中。 。

Amy especially enjoyed this high honor, and became quite a belle among them, for her ladyship early felt and learned to use the gift of fascination with which she was endowed. Meg was too much absorbed in her private and particular John to care for any other lords of creation, and Beth too shy to do more than peep at them and wonder how Amy dared to order them about so, but Jo felt quite in her own element, and found it very difficult to refrain from imitating the gentlemanly attitudes, phrases, and feats, which seemed more natural to her than the decorums prescribed for young ladies. They all liked Jo immensely, but never fell in love with her, though very few escaped without paying the tribute of a sentimental sigh or two at Amy’s shrine. And speaking of sentiment brings us very naturally to the ‘Dovecote’.
艾米尤其享有这项崇高的荣誉，并成为她们中的一位美女，因为她的女士很早就感受到并学会了利用她所赋予的迷恋天赋。梅格太专注于她私人的、特殊的约翰，无法关心任何其他造物主，而贝丝太害羞，除了偷看他们并想知道艾米怎么敢这样命令他们，但乔觉得很自在。她发现很难不模仿绅士的态度、言辞和动作，这对她来说比年轻女士规定的礼仪更自然。他们都非常喜欢乔，但从未爱上她，尽管很少有人没有在艾米的神殿里感伤地叹一两声致敬而逃脱。说到情感，我们很自然地想到了“鸽舍”。

That was the name of the little brown house Mr. Brooke had prepared for Meg’s first home. Laurie had christened it, saying it was highly appropriate to the gentle lovers who ‘went on together like a pair of turtledoves, with first a bill and then a coo’. It was a tiny house, with a little garden behind and a lawn about as big as a pocket handkerchief in the front. Here Meg meant to have a fountain, shrubbery, and a profusion of lovely flowers, though just at present the fountain was represented by a weather-beaten urn, very like a dilapidated slopbowl, the shrubbery consisted of several young larches, undecided whether to live or die, and the profusion of flowers was merely hinted by regiments of sticks to show where seeds were planted. But inside, it was altogether charming, and the happy bride saw no fault from garret to cellar. To be sure, the hall was so narrow it was fortunate that they had no piano, for one never could have been got in whole, the dining room was so small that six people were a tight fit, and the kitchen stairs seemed built for the express purpose of precipitating both servants and china pell-mell into the coalbin. But once get used to these slight blemishes and nothing could be more complete, for good sense and good taste had presided over the furnishing, and the result was highly satisfactory. There were no marble-topped tables, long mirrors, or lace curtains in the little parlor, but simple furniture, plenty of books, a fine picture or two, a stand of flowers in the bay window, and, scattered all about, the pretty gifts which came from friendly hands and were the fairer for the loving messages they brought.
这是布鲁克先生为梅格的第一个家准备的棕色小房子的名字。劳里给它起了个名字，说它非常适合温柔的恋人，“像一对斑鸠一样，先是喙，然后是咕咕声”。那是一座小房子，后面有一个小花园，前面有一块手帕那么大的草坪。梅格想要在这里有一个喷泉、灌木丛和大量可爱的花朵，尽管目前喷泉是一个饱经风霜的瓮，很像一个破旧的污水盆，灌木丛里有几棵年轻的落叶松，不确定是否要活下去。或者死亡，大量的花朵只是通过棍棒暗示，以显示种子被种植的地方。但里面却非常迷人，幸福的新娘从阁楼到地窖都看不出有什么问题。确实，大厅太窄了，幸好没有钢琴，因为根本不可能弄到完整的，餐厅太小，六个人挤不下，厨房的楼梯似乎是为吃饭而建的。明确的目的是将仆人和瓷器扔进煤仓。但一旦习惯了这些轻微的瑕疵，就没有什么比这更完整的了，因为良好的感觉和良好的品味主导了家具，结果非常令人满意。小客厅里没有大理石台面的桌子，没有长镜子，也没有花边窗帘，但有简单的家具，大量的书籍，一两张精美的画，凸窗上的一束花，还有散落在各处的漂亮的花。来自友好之手的礼物更加公平，因为它们带来了爱的信息。

I don’t think the Parian Psyche Laurie gave lost any of its beauty because John put up the bracket it stood upon, that any upholsterer could have draped the plain muslin curtains more gracefully than Amy’s artistic hand, or that any store-room was ever better provided with good wishes, merry words, and happy hopes than that in which Jo and her mother put away Meg’s few boxes, barrels, and bundles, and I am morally certain that the spandy new kitchen never could have looked so cozy and neat if Hannah had not arranged every pot and pan a dozen times over, and laid the fire all ready for lighting the minute ‘Mis. Brooke came home’. I also doubt if any young matron ever began life with so rich a supply of dusters, holders, and piece bags, for Beth made enough to last till the silver wedding came round, and invented three different kinds of dishcloths for the express service of the bridal china.
我不认为劳里送给帕里安的心灵之神失去了它的任何美丽，因为约翰把它所站立的支架搭起来了，任何室内装潢师都可以比艾米的艺术之手更优雅地悬挂普通的平纹细布窗帘，或者任何储藏室都曾经是这样的。比乔和她母亲收起梅格的几个盒子、桶和包裹时更好的祝愿、欢快的话语和幸福的希望，我在道义上确信，如果汉娜并没有把所有的锅碗瓢盆都摆好十几遍，并把火做好了点燃“小姐”的那一刻的准备。布鲁克回家了。”我也怀疑是否有哪个年轻的主妇在开始生活时拥有如此丰富的掸子、支架和碎片袋，因为贝丝制作的东西足以持续到银婚到来，并发明了三种不同类型的抹布，用于快速服务的婚纱中国.

People who hire all these things done for them never know what they lose, for the homeliest tasks get beautified if loving hands do them, and Meg found so many proofs of this that everything in her small nest, from the kitchen roller to the silver vase on her parlor table, was eloquent of home love and tender forethought.
雇用为他们做的所有这些东西的人永远不知道他们会失去什么，因为如果有爱心的双手去做，最简单的任务也会变得美丽，梅格发现了如此多的证据证明了这一点，她的小窝里的所有东西，从厨房滚筒到银花瓶在她客厅的桌子上，洋溢着家庭之爱和温柔的深思熟虑。

What happy times they had planning together, what solemn shopping excursions, what funny mistakes they made, and what shouts of laughter arose over Laurie’s ridiculous bargains. In his love of jokes, this young gentleman, though nearly through college, was a much of a boy as ever. His last whim had been to bring with him on his weekly visits some new, useful, and ingenious article for the young housekeeper. Now a bag of remarkable clothespins, next, a wonderful nutmeg grater which fell to pieces at the first trial, a knife cleaner that spoiled all the knives, or a sweeper that picked the nap neatly off the carpet and left the dirt, labor-saving soap that took the skin off one’s hands, infallible cements which stuck firmly to nothing but the fingers of the deluded buyer, and every kind of tinware, from a toy savings bank for odd pennies, to a wonderful boiler which would wash articles in its own steam with every prospect of exploding in the process.
他们一起计划了多么快乐的时光，多么严肃的购物旅行，他们犯了多么有趣的错误，以及劳里荒谬的讨价还价引起了多么大的笑声。这位年轻的绅士爱开玩笑，虽然大学快毕业了，但他仍然像以前一样像个男孩。他最后的突发奇想是在每周拜访时为年轻的管家带来一些新的、有用的、巧妙的物品。现在是一袋非凡的衣夹，接下来是一个美妙的肉豆蔻刨丝器，它在第一次尝试时就摔碎了，一个把所有刀具都弄坏了的刀具清洁器，或者一个扫地机，它可以整齐地从地毯上清除绒毛，留下污垢，节省劳力可以去除手上皮肤的肥皂，万无一失的水泥，除了被欺骗的买家的手指外，牢牢地粘在任何东西上，还有各种各样的锡器，从一个零钱的玩具储蓄罐，到一个可以自己清洗物品的奇妙锅炉在此过程中充满了爆炸的可能性。

In vain Meg begged him to stop. John laughed at him, and Jo called him ‘Mr. Toodles’. He was possessed with a mania for patronizing Yankee ingenuity, and seeing his friends fitly furnished forth. So each week beheld some fresh absurdity.
梅格恳求他停下来，但没有成功。约翰嘲笑他，乔称他为“约翰先生”。嘟嘟”。他热衷于欣赏北方佬的聪明才智，并看到他的朋友们衣冠楚楚。所以每周都会看到一些新的荒谬现象。

Everything was done at last, even to Amy’s arranging different colored soaps to match the different colored rooms, and Beth’s setting the table for the first meal.
一切终于完成了，甚至艾米准备了不同颜色的肥皂来搭配不同颜色的房间，贝丝也准备了第一顿饭的桌子。

‘Are you satisfied? Does it seem like home, and do you feel as if you should be happy here?’ asked Mrs. March, as she and her daughter went through the new kingdom arm in arm, for just then they seemed to cling together more tenderly than ever.
'你满意吗？ “这里看起来像家吗？你觉得在这里应该快乐吗？”当马奇夫人和女儿手挽手走过这个新王国时，她问道，因为就在那时，她们似乎比以往任何时候都更加温柔地依偎在一起。 。

‘Yes, Mother, perfectly satisfied, thanks to you all, and so happy that I can’t talk about it,’ with a look that was far better than words.
“是的，母亲，非常满意，谢谢大家，高兴得无法形容。”表情胜过言语。

‘If she only had a servant or two it would be all right,’ said Amy, coming out of the parlor, where she had been trying to decide whether the bronze Mercury looked best on the whatnot or the mantlepiece.
“如果她只有一两个仆人就好了，”艾米从客厅里走出来说道，她一直在考虑青铜水星在什么东西上还是在壁炉架上看起来最好。

‘Mother and I have talked that over, and I have made up my mind to try her way first. There will be so little to do that with Lotty to run my errands and help me here and there, I shall only have enough work to keep me from getting lazy or homesick,’ answered Meg tranquilly.
“我和妈妈商量过了，我决定先试试她的办法。”洛蒂帮我办事、到处帮我的事情就很少了，我的工作量只够让我不至于变得懒惰或想家。”梅格平静地回答道。

‘Sallie Moffat has four,’ began Amy.
“莎莉·莫法特有四个，”艾米开始说道。

‘If Meg had four, the house wouldn’t hold them, and master and missis would have to camp in the garden,’ broke in Jo, who, enveloped in a big blue pinafore, was giving the last polish to the door handles.
“如果梅格有四个，房子就容纳不下他们了，主人和夫人就得在花园里露营了，”乔插话道，她裹着一件蓝色的大围裙，正在给门把手做最后的抛光。

‘Sallie isn’t a poor man’s wife, and many maids are in keeping with her fine establishment. Meg and John begin humbly, but I have a feeling that there will be quite as much happiness in the little house as in the big one. It’s a great mistake for young girls like Meg to leave themselves nothing to do but dress, give orders, and gossip. When I was first married, I used to long for my new clothes to wear out or get torn, so that i might have the pleasure of mending them, for I got heartily sick of doing fancywork and tending my pocket handkerchief.’
“莎莉不是一个穷人的妻子，许多女仆都与她的优良设施保持一致。梅格和约翰一开始很谦虚，但我有一种感觉，小房子里的幸福感和大房子里的幸福感一样多。对于像梅格这样的年轻女孩来说，除了穿衣、发号施令和闲聊之外什么都不做，这是一个很大的错误。当我第一次结婚时，我常常渴望我的新衣服磨损或撕裂，这样我就可以有修补它们的乐趣，因为我厌倦了做花哨的工作和照料我的口袋手帕。

‘Why didn’t you go into the kitchen and make messes, as Sallie says she does to amuse herself, though they never turn out well and the servants laugh at her,’ said Meg.
“你为什么不去厨房把事情弄得一团糟，就像萨莉说的那样，她这样做是为了自娱自乐，尽管结果从来都不好，仆人们还嘲笑她，”梅格说。

‘I did after a while, not to ‘mess’ but to learn of Hannah how things should be done, that my servants need not laugh at me. It was play then, but there came a time when I was truly grateful that I not only possessed the will but the power to cook wholesome food for my little girls, and help myself when I could no longer afford to hire help. You begin at the other end, Meg, dear, but the lessons you learn now will be of use to you by-and-by when John is a richer man, for the mistress of a house, however splendid, should know how work ought to be done, if she wishes to be well and honestly served.’
“过了一会儿，我这样做，不是为了‘搞乱’，而是为了向汉娜学习事情应该如何做，这样我的仆人就不会嘲笑我。那时，这只是玩耍，但有一段时间，我真的很感激，因为我不仅有意愿，而且有能力为我的小女儿们烹饪有益健康的食物，并在我再也雇不起帮手时帮助自己。你从另一端开始，梅格，亲爱的，但是当约翰变得更富有时，你现在学到的教训很快就会对你有用，因为房子的女主人，无论多么华丽，都应该知道工作应该如何进行如果她希望得到良好和诚实的服务，就应该这样做。

‘Yes, Mother, I’m sure of that,’ said Meg, listening respectfully to the little lecture, for the best of women will hold forth upon the all absorbing subject of house keeping. ‘Do you know I like this room most of all in my baby house,’ added Meg, a minute after, as they went upstairs and she looked into her well-stored linen closet.
“是的，妈妈，我确信这一点，”梅格恭敬地听着这个小讲座，因为最好的女人都会滔滔不绝地谈论家务这个引人入胜的话题。 “你知道吗，我最喜欢我的婴儿屋里的这个房间，”一分钟后，当他们上楼时，梅格补充道，她看着她存放得很好的亚麻衣柜。

Beth was there, laying the snowy piles smoothly on the shelves and exulting over the goodly array. All three laughed as Meg spoke, for that linen closet was a joke. You see, having said that if Meg married ‘that Brooke’ she shouldn’t have a cent of her money, Aunt March was rather in a quandary when time had appeased her wrath and made her repent her vow. She never broke her word, and was much exercised in her mind how to get round it, and at last devised a plan whereby she could satisfy herself. Mrs. Carrol, Florence’s mamma, was ordered to buy, have made, and marked a generous supply of house and table linen, and send it as her present, all of which was faithfully done, but the secret leaked out, and was greatly enjoyed by the family, for Aunt March tried to look utterly unconscious, and insisted that she could give nothing but the old-fashioned pearls long promised to the first bride.
贝丝在那里，把雪堆平稳地放在架子上，对整齐的排列感到欣喜若狂。梅格说话时，三个人都笑了，因为那个亚麻壁橱就是个笑话。你看，虽然说过如果梅格嫁给了“那个布鲁克”，她就不应该得到一分钱，但当时间平息了她的愤怒并让她后悔自己的誓言时，马奇姨妈却陷入了进退两难的境地。她从不食言，心里苦苦思索如何绕开这个诺言，最后想出了一个能让自己满意的计划。弗洛伦斯的妈妈卡罗尔夫人奉命购买、制作并标记了大量的家居用品和餐桌布，并将其作为礼物送给她，所有这些都忠实地完成了，但秘密泄露了，人们非常高兴马奇姨妈试图让自己看起来完全失去知觉，并坚持说除了长期以来向第一任新娘许诺的老式珍珠之外，她什么也不能给。

‘That’s a housewifely taste which I am glad to see. I had a young friend who set up housekeeping with six sheets, but she had finger bowls for company and that satisfied her,’ said Mrs. March, patting the damask tablecloths, with a truly feminine appreciation of their fineness.
“这是一种家庭主妇的品味，我很高兴看到。 “我有一个年轻的朋友，她用六张床单来打理家务，但她有手指碗作伴，这让她很满意。”马奇夫人一边说，一边拍着锦缎桌布，对它们的精致表示真正的女性赞赏。

‘I haven’t a single finger bowl, but this is a setout that will last me all my days, Hannah says.’ And Meg looked quite contented, as well she might.
“我没有一个手指碗，但这是一个可以让我度过一生的套装，汉娜说。”梅格看起来很满足，她也可能会。

A tall, broad-shouldered young fellow, with a cropped head, a felt basin of a hat, and a flyaway coat, came tramping down the road at a great pace, walked over the low fence without stopping to open the gate, straight up to Mrs. March, with both hands out and a hearty . ..
一个高大、宽肩的小伙子，剪着短头，戴着一顶毡盆帽，穿着一件飘逸的外套，沿着道路大步走来，跨过低矮的栅栏，没有停下来打开大门，径直向上走去。向马奇夫人伸出双手，热情地…… ..

‘Here I am, Mother! Yes, it’s all right.’
‘我在这里，妈妈！是的，没关系。

The last words were in answer to the look the elder lady gave him, a kindly questioning look which the handsome eyes met so frankly that the little ceremony closed, as usual, with a motherly kiss.
最后一句话是对老太太投给他的眼神的回应，那是一种善意询问的目光，英俊的目光如此坦率地相遇，以至于这个小小的仪式像往常一样以慈母般的吻结束。

‘For Mrs. John Brooke, with the maker’s congratulations and compliments. Bless you, Beth! What a refreshing spectacle you are, Jo. Amy, you are getting altogether too handsome for a single lady.’
“致约翰·布鲁克夫人，谨致制造商的祝贺和赞扬。祝福你，贝丝！你真是令人耳目一新，乔。艾米，对于单身女士来说，你太帅了。”

As Laurie spoke, he delivered a brown paper parcel to Meg, pilled Beth’s hair ribbon, stared at Jo’s bib pinafore, and fell into an attitude of mock rapture before Amy, then shook hands all round, and everyone began to talk.
劳里说话的时候，他把一个牛皮纸包裹递给了梅格，拨乱了贝丝的发带，盯着乔的围兜围裙，在艾米面前假装欣喜若狂，然后与周围的人握手，每个人都开始交谈。

‘Where is John?’ asked Meg anxiously.
“约翰在哪儿？”梅格焦急地问。

‘Stopped to get the license for tomorrow, ma’am.’
“女士，停下来领取明天的驾照。”

‘Which side won the last match, Teddy?’ inquired Jo, who persisted in feeling an interest in manly sports despite her nineteen years.
“泰迪，上一场比赛哪一方赢了？”乔问道，尽管她已经十九岁了，但她仍然对男子气概的运动感兴趣。

‘Ours, of course. Wish you’d been there to see.’
“当然是我们的。”希望你能去那里看看。

‘How is the lovely Miss Randal?’ asked Amy with a significant smile.
“可爱的兰德尔小姐怎么样？”艾米意味深长地微笑着问道。

‘More cruel than ever. Don’t you see how I’m pining away?’ And Laurie gave his broad chest a sounding slap and heaved a melodramatic sigh.
‘比以往任何时候都更加残酷。你没看到我多么憔悴吗？”劳里重重地拍了拍他宽阔的胸膛，然后戏剧性地叹了口气。

‘What’s the last joke? Undo the bundle and see, Meg,’ said Beth, eying the knobby parcel with curiosity.
‘最后一个笑话是什么？梅格，打开包裹看看。”贝丝好奇地看着这个多节的包裹。

‘It’s a useful thing to have in the house in case of fire or thieves,’ observed Laurie, as a watchman’s rattle appeared, amid the laughter of the girls.
“在家里放上这个东西，以防发生火灾或小偷，这是一个有用的东西，”劳里评论道，同时在女孩们的笑声中出现了看守人的拨浪鼓。

‘Any time when John is away and you get frightened, Mrs. Meg, just swing that out of the front window, and it will rouse the neighborhood in a jiffy. Nice thing, isn’t it?’ And Laurie gave them a sample of its powers that made them cover up their ears.
“梅格太太，每当约翰不在的时候，你感到害怕时，只要把它从前窗甩出去，它就会立刻惊动邻居。好东西，不是吗？”劳里向他们展示了它的力量，让他们捂住了耳朵。

‘There’s gratitude for you! And speaking of gratitude reminds me to mention that you may thank Hannah for saving your wedding cake from destruction. I saw it going into your house as I came by, and if she hadn’t defended it manfully I’d have had a pick at it, for it looked like a remarkably plummy one.’
‘我对你有感激之情！说到感激之情，我想起你可能会感谢汉娜，让你的婚礼蛋糕免遭破坏。当我经过时，我看到它进入了你的房子，如果她没有勇敢地捍卫它，我就会把它捡起来，因为它看起来像一个非常李子的。

‘I wonder if you will ever grow up, Laurie,’ said Meg in a matronly tone.
“我不知道你是否会长大，劳里，”梅格用主妇的语气说。

‘I’m doing my best, ma’am, but can’t get much higher, I’m afraid, as six feet is about all men can do in these degenerate days,’ responded the young gentleman, whose head was about level with the little chandelier.
“我正在尽力而为，女士，但我恐怕不能再高了，因为在这个堕落的时代里，六英尺的高度几乎是男人所能做的了，”年轻的绅士回答道，他的头大约是水平的和小吊灯。

‘I suppose it would be profanation to eat anything in this spick-and-span bower, so as I’m tremendously hungry, I propose an adjournment,’ he added presently.
“我想在这个整洁的凉亭里吃任何东西都是亵渎，所以因为我非常饿，我建议休会，”他不久又补充道。

‘Mother and I are going to wait for John. There are some last things to settle,’ said Meg, bustling away.
“妈妈和我要等约翰。还有一些最后的事情需要解决。”梅格说着就匆匆走了。

‘Beth and I are going over to Kitty Bryant’s to get more flowers for tomorrow,’ added Amy, tying a picturesque hat over her picturesque curls, and enjoying the effect as much as anybody.
“贝丝和我要去基蒂·布莱恩特那里为明天买更多的花，”艾米补充道，她在她美丽的卷发上系了一顶漂亮的帽子，和其他人一样享受这种效果。

‘Come, Jo, don’t desert a fellow. I’m in such a state of exhaustion I can’t get home without help. Don’t take off your apron, whatever you do, it’s peculiarly becoming,’ said Laurie, as Jo bestowed his especial aversion in her capacious pocket and offered her arm to support his feeble steps.
‘来吧，乔，不要抛弃任何人。我已经筋疲力尽，没有帮助就无法回家。不要脱掉你的围裙，无论你做什么，这都是特别合适的。”劳里说，乔把他特别厌恶的东西放进了她宽敞的口袋里，并伸出手臂支撑着他虚弱的脚步。

‘Now, Teddy, I want to talk seriously to you about tomorrow,’ began Jo, as they strolled away together. ‘You must promise to behave well, and not cut up any pranks, and spoil our plans.’
“现在，泰迪，我想认真地和你谈谈明天的事。”他们一起漫步离开时，乔说道。 “你必须保证表现得好，不要搞恶作剧，破坏我们的计划。”

‘Not a prank.’
“不是恶作剧。”

‘And don’t say funny things when we ought to be sober.’
“当我们应该清醒的时候，不要说有趣的话。”

‘I never do. You are the one for that.’
'我从来没有做。你就是那个人。

‘And I implore you not to look at me during the ceremony. I shall certainly laugh if you do.’
“我恳求你在仪式上不要看我。如果你这样做，我一定会笑的。

‘You won’t see me, you’ll be crying so hard that the thick fog round you will obscure the prospect.’
“你不会看到我，你会哭得很厉害，周围的浓雾会遮住前景。”

‘I never cry unless for some great affliction.’
“除非遇到重大的痛苦，否则我从不哭泣。”

‘Such as fellows going to college, hey?’ cut in Laurie, with suggestive laugh.
“比如上大学的人，嘿？”劳里插话道，带着暗示性的笑声。

‘Don’t be a peacock. I only moaned a trifle to keep the girls company.’ ‘Exactly. I say, Jo, how is Grandpa this week? Pretty amiable?’
‘别做孔雀。我只是发出轻微的呻吟，以陪伴女孩们。”我说，乔，爷爷这周怎么样？很和蔼可亲吗？

‘Very. Why, have you got into a scrape and want to know how he’ll take it?’ asked Jo rather sharply.
'非常。为什么，你遇到麻烦了，想知道他会如何度过吗？”乔相当尖锐地问道。

‘Now, Jo, do you think I’d look your mother in the face and say ‘All right’, if it wasn’t?’ And Laurie stopped short, with an injured air.
“现在，乔，如果不是的话，你认为我会看着你母亲的脸说‘好吧’吗？”劳里突然停了下来，神情受伤。

‘No, I don’t.’
“不，我不。”

‘Then don’t go and be suspicious. I only want some money,’ said Laurie, walking on again, appeased by her hearty tone.
‘那就别去怀疑了。 “我只想要一些钱。”劳里一边说着，一边又继续往前走，她诚恳的语气安抚了她的情绪。

‘You spend a great deal, Teddy.’
“你花了很多钱，泰迪。”

‘Bless you, I don’t spend it, it spends itself somehow, and is gone before I know it.’
“上帝保佑你，我不会花掉它，它会以某种方式自行花掉，在我意识到之前就消失了。”

‘You are so generous and kind-hearted that you let people borrow, and can’t say ‘No’ to anyone. We heard about Henshaw and all you did for him. If you always spent money in that way, no one would blame you,’ said Jo warmly.
‘你是如此慷慨和善良，你让人借钱，不能对任何人说‘不’。我们听说了汉肖以及你为他所做的一切。如果你总是这样花钱，没有人会责怪你。”乔热情地说。

‘Oh, he made a mountain out of a molehill. You wouldn’t have me let that fine fellow work himself to death just for want of a little help, when he is worth a dozen of us lazy chaps, would you?’
‘噢，他小题大做了。你不会让我仅仅因为需要一点帮助而让那个好家伙工作到死，而他的价值却抵得上我们这些懒惰的小伙子，不是吗？

‘Of course not, but I don’t see the use of your having seventeen waistcoats, endless neckties, and a new hat every time you come home. I thought you’d got over the dandy period, but every now and then it breaks out in a new spot. Just now it’s the fashion to be hideous, to make your head look like a scrubbing brush, wear a strait jacket, orange gloves, and clumping square-toed boots. If it was cheap ugliness, I’d say nothing, but it costs as much as the other, and I don’t get any satisfaction out of it.’
“当然不是，但我看不出你每次回家时拥有十七件背心、无数条领带和一顶新帽子有什么用。我以为你已经度过了花花公子的时期，但时不时地它会在新的地方爆发。现在流行的是丑陋的，把你的头弄得像个刷子，穿紧身衣，戴橙色手套，脚踩笨重的方头靴子。如果它是廉价的丑陋，我不会说什么，但它的成本和其他一样多，而且我不能从中得到任何满足。

Laurie threw back his head, and laughed so heartily at this attack, that the felt hat fell off, and Jo walked on it, which insult only afforded him an opportunity for expatiating on the advantages of a rough-and-ready costume, as he folded up the maltreated hat, and stuffed it into his pocket.
劳里仰起头，对这次袭击哈哈大笑，毡帽掉了下来，乔在上面行走，这种侮辱只给他一个机会来阐述粗糙的现成服装的优点，因为他把那顶破烂不堪的帽子折起来，塞进口袋里。

‘Don’t lecture any more, there’s a good soul! I have enough all through the week, and like to enjoy myself when I come home. I’ll get myself up regardless of expense tomorrow and be a satisfaction to my friends.’
‘别再说教了，有个好灵魂！我这一周已经足够了，回家后我喜欢享受自己。明天我会不顾一切地起床，让我的朋友们满意。”

‘I’ll leave you in peace if you’ll only let your hair grow. I’m not aristocratic, but I do object to being seen with a person who looks like a young prize fighter,’ observed Jo severely.
“只要你让头发长起来，我就让你安心。”我不是贵族，但我确实反对被看到和一个看起来像年轻职业拳击手的人在一起。”乔严肃地说。

‘This unassuming style promotes study, that’s why we adopt it,’ returned Laurie, who certainly could not be accused of vanity, having voluntarily sacrificed a handsome curly crop to the demand for quarterinch-long stubble.
“这种谦虚的风格促进了学习，这就是我们采用它的原因，”劳里回答道，当然不能指责他虚荣，因为他自愿牺牲了漂亮的卷发来满足对四分之一英寸长胡茬的需求。

‘By the way, Jo, I think that little Parker is really getting desperate about Amy. He talks of her constantly, writes poetry, and moons about in a most suspicious manner. He’d better nip his little passion in the bud, hadn’t he?’ added Laurie, in a confidential, elder brotherly tone, after a minute’s silence.
“顺便说一句，乔，我认为小帕克真的对艾米越来越绝望了。他不断地谈论她，写诗，并以一种最可疑的方式闲逛。他最好把他的小热情扼杀在萌芽状态，不是吗？”沉默了一分钟后，劳里用一种机密的、大哥般的语气补充道。

‘Of course he had. We don’t want any more marrying in this family for years to come. Mercy on us, what are the children thinking of?’ And Jo looked as much scandalized as if Amy and little Parker were not yet in their teens.
“他当然有。未来几年，我们不想再在这个家庭里再结婚了。可怜我们吧，孩子们在想什么呢？”乔看起来很震惊，就好像艾米和小帕克还不到十几岁一样。

‘It’s a fast age, and I don’t know what we are coming to, ma’am. You are a mere infant, but you’ll go next, Jo, and we’ll be left lamenting,’ said Laurie, shaking his head over the degeneracy of the times.
“这是一个快节奏的时代，我不知道我们会面临什么，女士。你只是个婴儿，但你会走下一个，乔，我们会哀叹的，”劳里说，对时代的堕落摇着头。

‘Don’t be alarmed. I’m not one of the agreeable sort. Nobody will want me, and it’s a mercy, for there should always be one old maid in a family.’
‘别惊慌。我不是那种令人愉快的人。没有人会想要我，这是一种仁慈，因为一个家庭里应该永远有一个老姑娘。”

‘You won’t give anyone a chance,’ said Laurie, with a sidelong glance and a little more color than before in his sunburned face. ‘You won’t show the soft side of your character, and if a fellow gets a peep at it by accident and can’t help showing that he likes it, you treat him as Mrs. Gummidge did her sweetheart, throw cold water over him, and get so thorny no one dares touch or look at you.’
“你不会给任何人机会的。”劳里斜眼看了一眼，晒黑的脸上比以前多了一点血色。 “你不会表现出你性格中温柔的一面，如果一个人无意中看到了它，并且情不自禁地表现出他喜欢它，你对待他就像甘米奇夫人对待她的心上人一样，泼冷水。”他，变得如此棘手，没有人敢碰或看你。

‘I don’t like that sort of thing. I’m too busy to be worried with nonsense, and I think it’s dreadful to break up families so. Now don’t say any more about it. Meg’s wedding has turned all our heads, and we talk of nothing but lovers and such absurdities. I don’t wish to get cross, so let’s change the subject.’ And Jo looked quite ready to fling cold water on the slightest provocation.
‘我不喜欢那样的事情。我太忙了，无暇顾虑这些废话，我觉得这样拆散家庭是很可怕的。现在不要再多说了。梅格的婚礼让我们所有人都大吃一惊，我们只谈论恋人和这些荒谬的事情。我不想生气，所以我们换个话题吧。”乔看起来已经准备好在最轻微的挑衅下泼冷水了。

Whatever his feelings might have been, Laurie found a vent for them in a long low whistle and the fearful prediction as they parted at the gate, ‘Mark my words, Jo, you’ll go next.’
无论他的感受如何，劳里在一声长长的低声口哨和在门口分开时可怕的预言中找到了发泄的出口：“记住我的话，乔，你是下一个。”

CHAPTER TWENTY-FIVE
第二十五章

The June roses over the porch were awake bright and early on that morning, rejoicing with all their hearts in the cloudless sunshine, like friendly little neighbors, as they were. Quite flushed with excitement were their ruddy faces, as they swung in the wind, whispering to one another what they had seen, for some peeped in at the dining room windows where the feast was spread, some climbed up to nod and smile at the sisters as they dressed the bride, others waved a welcome to those who came and went on various errands in garden, porch, and hall, and all, from the rosiest full-blown flower to the palest baby bud, offered their tribute of beauty and fragrance to the gentle mistress who had loved and tended them so long.
门廊上的六月玫瑰在那天清晨明亮地醒来，在万里无云的阳光下全心全意地欢欣鼓舞，就像友好的小邻居一样。她们红润的脸庞兴奋得通红，在风中摇曳，低声诉说着自己的所见，有的从摆着盛宴的餐厅窗户往里偷看，有的爬上来对姐妹们点头微笑。当他们为新娘打扮时，其他人向花园、门廊和大厅里来来去去的人们挥手致意，从最玫瑰色的盛开的花朵到最苍白的婴儿花蕾，都献上了美丽和芬芳的贡品。献给那位温柔地爱护他们这么久的女主人。

Meg looked very like a rose herself, for all that was best and sweetest in heart and soul seemed to bloom into her face that day, making it fair and tender, with a charm more beautiful than beauty. Neither silk, lace, nor orange flowers would she have. ‘I don’t want a fashionable wedding, but only those about me whom I love, and to them I wish to look and be my familiar self.’
梅格本人看上去就很像一朵玫瑰，因为那天她内心和灵魂中最美好的、最甜蜜的一切似乎都在她的脸上绽放，显得白皙而温柔，有一种比美丽更美丽的魅力。她既不会拥有丝绸、蕾丝，也不会拥有橙色的花朵。 “我不想要一场时髦的婚礼，而只想要那些我所爱的人，我希望在他们面前看起来像我熟悉的自己。”

So she made her wedding gown herself, sewing into it the tender hopes and innocent romances of a girlish heart. her sisters braided up her pretty hair, and the only ornaments she wore were the lilies of the valley, which ‘her John’ liked best of all the flowers that grew.
于是，她亲手缝制了自己的婚纱，缝上了少女心的温柔希望和天真浪漫。她的姐妹们把她漂亮的头发编成辫子，她身上唯一的装饰品就是铃兰，“她的约翰”在所有的花中最喜欢铃兰。

‘You do look just like our own dear Meg, only so very sweet and lovely that I should hug you if it wouldn’t crumple your dress,’ cried Amy, surveying her with delight when all was done.
“你看起来确实像我们亲爱的梅格，只是非常甜美可爱，如果不会弄皱你的衣服，我应该拥抱你，”艾米喊道，当一切完成后，她高兴地打量着她。

‘Then I am satisfied. But please hug and kiss me, everyone, and don’t mind my dress. I want a great many crumples of this sort put into it today.’ And Meg opened her arms to her sisters, who clung about her with April faces for a minute, feeling that the new love had not changed the old.
‘那我就满足了。但请大家拥抱我、亲吻我，不要介意我的穿着。今天我想要很多这样的褶皱。”梅格向她的姐妹们张开双臂，她们用四月的脸紧紧地抱住了她一会儿，感觉新的爱情并没有改变旧的爱情。

‘Now I’m going to tie John’s cravat for him, and then to stay a few minutes with Father quietly in the study.’ And Meg ran down to perform these little ceremonies, and then to follow her mother wherever she went, conscious that in spite of the smiles on the motherly face, there was a secret sorrow hid in the motherly heart at the flight of the first bird from the nest.
“现在我要为约翰系上领带，然后在书房里安静地陪父亲几分钟。”梅格跑下来执行这些小仪式，然后无论她母亲走到哪里，她都会跟着她。尽管母亲的脸上挂着微笑，但当第一只鸟儿飞出巢穴时，母亲的心里却隐藏着一种秘密的悲伤。

As the younger girls stand together, giving the last touches to their simple toilet, it may be a good time to tell of a few changes which three years have wrought in their appearance, for all are looking their best just now.
当年轻的女孩们站在一起，对她们简单的厕所进行最后的修饰时，也许是一个讲述三年来她们外表发生的一些变化的好时机，因为所有人现在都看起来最好。

Jo’s angles are much softened, she has learned to carry herself with ease, if not grace. The curly crop has lengthened into a thick coil, more becoming to the small head atop of the tall figure. There is a fresh color in her brown cheeks, a soft shine in her eyes, and only gentle words fall from her sharp tongue today.
乔的角度变得更加柔和，她学会了轻松地表现自己，即使不是优雅。卷曲的短发已经拉长成厚厚的线圈，更适合高大身材上的小脑袋。她棕色的脸颊上有一种清新的色彩，她的眼睛里有柔和的光芒，今天她尖利的舌头里只吐出温柔的话语。

Beth has grown slender, pale, and more quiet than ever. The beautiful, kind eyes are larger, and in them lies an expression that saddens one, although it is not sad itself. It is the shadow of pain which touches the young face with such pathetic patience, but Beth seldom complains and always speaks hopefully of ‘being better soon’.
贝丝变得苗条、苍白，而且比以前更加安静。美丽而慈祥的眼睛更大，里面有一种令人悲伤的表情，尽管它本身并不悲伤。痛苦的阴影以如此可怜的耐心抚摸着年轻的脸庞，但贝丝很少抱怨，总是满怀希望地说“很快就会好起来”。

Amy is with truth considered ‘the flower of the family’, for at sixteen she has the air and bearing of a full-grown woman, not beautiful, but possessed of that indescribable charm called grace. One saw it in the lines of her figure, the make and motion of her hands, the flow of her dress, the droop of her hair, unconscious yet harmonious, and as attractive to many as beauty itself. Amy’s nose still afflicted her, for it never would grow Grecian, so did her mouth, being too wide, and having a decided chin. These offending features gave character to her whole face, but she never could see it, and consoled herself with her wonderfully fair complexion, keen blue eyes, and curls more golden and abundant than ever.
艾米确实被认为是“家里的花”，因为十六岁的她有着成熟女人的气质和举止，并不漂亮，但却拥有一种难以形容的魅力，叫做优雅。人们可以从她的身材线条、双手的动作和动作、衣着的飘逸、头发的下垂中看到这一点，无意识却和谐，就像美丽本身一样吸引许多人。艾米的鼻子仍然困扰着她，因为它永远不会变成希腊式的，她的嘴巴也是如此，太宽了，下巴也很明显。这些令人不快的特征给她的整张脸赋予了特色，但她却永远看不到这一点，她用自己极其白皙的肤色、敏锐的蓝眼睛和比以往更金色、更浓密的卷发来安慰自己。

All three wore suits of thin silver gray (their best gowns for the summer), with blush roses in hair and bosom, and all three looked just what they were, fresh-faced, happy-hearted girls, pausing a moment in their busy lives to read with wistful eyes the sweetest chapter in the romance of womanhood.
三个人都穿着薄薄的银灰色套装（他们夏天穿的最好的礼服），头发和胸前都插着绯红的玫瑰花，三个人看起来都像他们本来的样子，面容清新，心情愉快的女孩，在忙碌的生活中暂停了片刻。用渴望的目光阅读女性浪漫中最甜蜜的篇章。

There were to be no ceremonious performances, everything was to be as natural and homelike as possible, so when Aunt March arrived, she was scandalized to see the bride come running to welcome and lead her in, to find the bridegroom fastening up a garland that had fallen down, and to catch a glimpse of the paternal minister marching upstairs with a grave countenance and a wine bottle under each arm.
婚礼上不能有任何隆重的表演，一切都尽可能自然、温馨，所以当马奇姨妈到来时，她很震惊地看到新娘跑来迎接并领着她进去，发现新郎还系上了一个花环，摔倒了，瞥见父亲的大臣神情严肃，腋下各夹着一个酒瓶，大步上楼。

‘Upon my word, here’s a state of things!’ cried the old lady, taking the seat of honor prepared for her, and settling the folds of her lavender moire with a great rustle. ‘You oughtn’t to be seen till the last minute, child.’
“据我所知，事情是这样的！”老太太叫道，她坐到了为她准备的主座上，并用沙沙声把她的淡紫色云纹的褶皱整理好。 “不到最后一刻你不应该被人看见，孩子。”

‘I’m not a show, Aunty, and no one is coming to stare at me, to criticize my dress, or count the cost of my luncheon. I’m too happy to care what anyone says or thinks, and I’m going to have my little wedding just as I like it. John, dear, here’s your hammer.’ And away went Meg to help ‘that man’ in his highly improper employment.
“我不是作秀，阿姨，没有人会来看我，批评我的着装，或者计算我午餐的费用。我很高兴不在乎别人说什么或想什么，我会按照自己喜欢的方式举办我的小型婚礼。约翰，亲爱的，这是你的锤子。”说完梅格就走了，去帮助“那个人”处理他极其不当的工作。

Mr. Brooke didn’t even say, ‘Thank you,’ but as he stooped for the unromantic tool, he kissed his little bride behind the folding door, with a look that made Aunt March whisk out her pocket handkerchief with a sudden dew in her sharp old eyes.
布鲁克先生甚至没有说“谢谢”，但当他弯下腰去拿这个并不浪漫的工具时，他在折叠门后面亲吻了他的小新娘，他的表情让马奇姨妈迅速掏出口袋里的手帕，突然间，露珠渗入了她的口袋里。她那双锐利的老眼睛。

A crash, a cry, and a laugh from Laurie, accompanied by the indecorous exclamation, ‘Jupiter Ammon! Jo’s upset the cake again!’ caused a momentary flurry, which was hardly over when a flock of cousins arrived, and ‘the party came in’, as Beth used to say when a child.
劳里发出一声撞击声、一声叫喊和一声大笑，伴随着一声不雅的惊呼：“朱庇特·阿蒙！”乔又把蛋糕弄翻了！”引起了一阵短暂的骚动，但还没结束，一群表兄弟就来了，“聚会进来了”，正如贝丝小时候常说的那样。

‘Don’t let that young giant come near me, he worries me worse than mosquitoes,’ whispered the old lady to Amy, as the rooms filled and Laurie’s black head towered above the rest.
“别让那个年轻的巨人靠近我，他比蚊子还让我担心。”老妇人对艾米低声说道，房间里挤满了人，劳里的黑色脑袋高高地耸在其他人之上。

‘He has promised to be very good today, and he can be perfectly elegant if he likes,’ returned Amy, and gliding away to warn Hercules to beware of the dragon, which warning caused him to haunt the old lady with a devotion that nearly distracted her.
“他已经答应今天会表现得很好，如果他愿意的话，他可以变得非常优雅。”艾米回答道，然后滑翔着走开，警告赫拉克勒斯要小心巨龙，这一警告使他对老太太的忠诚几乎达到了近乎完美的地步。分散了她的注意力。

There was no bridal procession, but a sudden silence fell upon the room as Mr. March and the young couple took their places under the green arch. Mother and sisters gathered close, as if loath to give Meg up. The fatherly voice broke more than once, which only seemed to make the service more beautiful and solemn. The bridegroom’s hand trembled visibly, and no one heard his replies. But Meg looked straight up in her husband’s eyes, and said, ‘I will!’ with such tender trust in her own face and voice that her mother’s heart rejoiced and Aunt March sniffed audibly.
没有新娘队伍，但当马奇先生和这对年轻夫妇在绿色拱门下就座时，房间里突然鸦雀无声。母亲和姐妹们紧紧地靠在一起，似乎不愿意放弃梅格。慈父般的声音不止一次地断断续续，这只似乎让仪式变得更加优美和庄严。新郎的手明显颤抖着，没有人听到他的回答。但梅格直视着她丈夫的眼睛，说道：“我会的！”她对自己的脸和声音充满了温柔的信任，让她母亲的心欢喜起来，马奇姨妈大声吸了鼻子。

Jo did not cry, though she was very near it once, and was only saved from a demonstration by the consciousness that Laurie was staring fixedly at her, with a comical mixture of merriment and emotion in his wicked black eyes. Beth kept her face hidden on her mother’s shoulder, but Amy stood like a graceful statue, with a most becoming ray of sunshine touching her white forehead and the flower in her hair.
乔没有哭，尽管有一次她就差点哭了，只是意识到劳里正目不转睛地盯着她，他邪恶的黑眼睛里带着滑稽的欢乐和情感，才没有哭出来。贝丝把脸埋在母亲的肩膀上，而艾米却像一尊优雅的雕像一样站着，一缕阳光照在她洁白的额头和发间的花上。

It wasn’t at all the thing, I’m afraid, but the minute she was fairly married, Meg cried, ‘The first kiss for Marmee!’ and turning, gave it with her heart on her lips. During the next fifteen minutes she looked more like a rose than ever, for everyone availed themselves of their privileges to the fullest extent, from Mr. Laurence to old Hannah, who, adorned with a headdress fearfully and wonderfully made, fell upon her in the hall, crying with a sob and a chuckle, ‘Bless you, deary, a hundred times! The cake ain’t hurt a mite, and everything looks lovely.’
恐怕这根本不是问题，但是当她正式结婚的那一刻，梅格喊道：“给妈妈的初吻！”然后转身，把心放在嘴唇上。在接下来的十五分钟里，她看起来比以往任何时候都更像一朵玫瑰，因为每个人都最大限度地利用了自己的特权，从劳伦斯先生到老汉娜，老汉娜戴着可怕而制作精美的头饰，在大厅里，一边哭泣一边轻笑，“祝福你，亲爱的，一百次！”这蛋糕一点也不伤人，一切看起来都很可爱。”

Everybody cleared up after that, and said something brilliant, or tried to, which did just as well, for laughter is ready when hearts are light. There was no display of gifts, for they were already in the little house, nor was there an elaborate breakfast, but a plentiful lunch of cake and fruit, dressed with flowers. Mr. Laurence and Aunt March shrugged and smiled at one another when water, lemonade, and coffee were found to be to only sorts of nectar which the three Hebes carried around. No one said anything, till Laurie, who insisted on serving the bride, appeared before her, with a loaded salver in his hand and a puzzled expression on his face.
之后每个人都清醒了，并说了一些精彩的话，或者试图说的话，效果也很好，因为当心情轻松时，笑声就准备好了。没有展示礼物，因为他们已经在小房子里了，也没有精心准备的早餐，而是丰盛的午餐，有蛋糕和水果，还装饰着鲜花。当劳伦斯先生和马奇姨妈发现水、柠檬水和咖啡只是三个赫比随身携带的花蜜时，他们耸耸肩，互相微笑。没人说话，直到坚持为新娘服务的劳里出现在她面前，手里端着装满东西的托盘，一脸疑惑。

‘Has Jo smashed all the bottles by accident?’ he whispered, ‘or am I merely laboring under a delusion that I saw some lying about loose this morning?’
“乔是不是不小心打碎了所有瓶子？”他低声说道，“还是我只是误以为今天早上看到一些瓶子散落一地？”

‘No, your grandfather kindly offered us his best, and Aunt March actually sent some, but Father put away a little for Beth, and dispatched the rest to the Soldier’s Home. You know he thinks that wine should be used only in illness, and Mother says that neither she nor her daughters will ever offer it to any young man under her roof.’
“不，你的祖父好心地向我们提供了他最好的东西，马奇姨妈实际上送了一些，但父亲为贝丝留了一点，然后把剩下的送到了士兵之家。你知道他认为酒只能在生病时喝，而母亲说她和她的女儿们都不会向她家里的任何年轻人提供酒。

Meg spoke seriously and expected to see Laurie frown or laugh, but he did neither, for after a quick look at her, he said, in his impetuous way, ‘I like that! For I’ve seen enough harm done to wish other women would think as you do.’
梅格说话很严肃，希望看到劳里皱眉或大笑，但他两者都没有，因为他快速地看了她一眼后，用他急躁的方式说道：“我喜欢这样！”因为我已经看到了足够多的伤害，希望其他女性也能像你一样思考。”

‘You are not made wise by experience, I hope?’ And there was an anxious accent in Meg’s voice.
“我希望你不是靠经验而变得明智的吗？”梅格的声音里带着焦急的口音。

‘No. I give you my word for it. Don’t think too well of me, either, this is not one of my temptations. Being brought up where wine is as common as water and almost as harmless, I don’t care for it, but when a pretty girl offers it, one doesn’t like to refuse, you see.’
'不。我向你保证。也别把我想得太好，这不是我的诱惑之一。我是在酒像水一样常见且几乎无害的环境中长大的，我不喜欢它，但当一个漂亮女孩递上酒时，人们不喜欢拒绝，你看。

‘But you will, for the sake of others, if not for your own. Come, Laurie, promise, and give me one more reason to call this the happiest day of my life.’
“但你会的，即使不是为了你自己，也是为了别人。”来吧，劳里，答应我，再给我一个理由，称这是我一生中最快乐的一天。”

A demand so sudden and so serious made the young man hesitate a moment, for ridicule is often harder to bear than self-denial. Meg knew that if he gave the promise he would keep it at all costs, and feeling her power, used it as a woman may for her friend’s good. She did not speak, but she looked up at him with a face made very eloquent by happiness, and a smile which said, ‘No one can refuse me anything today.’
如此突然、如此严肃的要求，让年轻人犹豫了片刻，因为嘲笑往往比自我否定更难忍受。梅格知道，如果他做出承诺，他就会不惜一切代价遵守诺言，并感受到她的力量，像女人一样为了她朋友的利益而使用它。她没有说话，但抬头看着他，脸上洋溢着幸福的表情，笑容里仿佛在说：“今天没有人能拒绝我的任何事情。”

Laurie certainly could not, and with an answering smile, he gave her his hand, saying heartily, ‘I promise, Mrs. Brooke!’
劳里当然不能，他微笑着回应她，向她伸出了手，衷心地说：“我保证，布鲁克太太！”

‘I thank you, very, very much.’
“我非常非常感谢你。”

‘And I drink ‘long life to your resolution’, Teddy,’ cried Jo, baptizing him with a splash of lemonade, as she waved her glass and beamed approvingly upon him.
“我为你的决心而干杯，泰迪，”乔喊道，一边给他施洗，一边挥舞着酒杯，对他露出赞许的笑容。

So the toast was drunk, the pledge made and loyally kept in spite of many temptations, for with instinctive wisdom, the girls seized a happy moment to do their friend a service, for which he thanked them all his life.
就这样，干杯酒喝完了，尽管受到了许多诱惑，姑娘们还是恪守了诺言，因为凭着本能的智慧，姑娘们抓住了这个幸福的时刻，为她们的朋友提供了帮助，为此，他终生感谢她们。

After lunch, people strolled about, by twos and threes, through the house and garden, enjoying the sunshine without and within. Meg and John happened to be standing together in the middle of the grass plot, when Laurie was seized with an inspiration which put the finishing touch to this unfashionable wedding.
午饭后，人们三三两两地在房子和花园里散步，享受着屋内屋外的阳光。梅格和约翰碰巧一起站在草地中央，劳里灵机一动，为这场不合时宜的婚礼画上了点睛之笔。

‘All the married people take hands and dance round the new-made husband and wife, as the Germans do, while we bachelors and spinsters prance in couples outside!’ cried Laurie, promenading down the path with Amy, with such infectious spirit and skill that everyone else followed their example without a murmur. Mr. and Mrs. March, Aunt and Uncle Carrol began it, others rapidly joined in, even Sallie Moffat, after a moment’s hesitation, threw her train over her arm and whisked Ned into the ring. But the crowning joke was Mr. Laurence and Aunt March, for when the stately old gentleman chass’ed solemnly up to the old lady, she just tucked her cane under arm, and hopped briskly away to join hands with the rest and dance about the bridal pair, while the young folks pervaded the garden like butterflies on a midsummer day.
“所有已婚人士都手牵着手，围着新婚夫妇跳舞，就像德国人那样，而我们这些单身汉和老处女则在外面成对地跳舞！”劳里喊道，她带着如此富有感染力的精神和技巧，与艾米一起沿着小路漫步。其他人都以他们为榜样，毫无怨言。马奇夫妇、卡罗尔姨妈和叔叔开始了表演，其他人很快也加入了进来，就连莎莉·莫法特也犹豫了一会儿，把裙裾搭在手臂上，然后把内德带进了擂台。但最大的笑话是劳伦斯先生和马奇婶婶，因为当这位庄严的老绅士严肃地追到老太太面前时，她只是把拐杖夹在腋下，轻快地跳开，与其他人手拉手，绕着广场跳舞。一对新婚夫妇，而年轻人则像仲夏节的蝴蝶一样在花园里飞舞。

Want of breath brought the impromptu ball to a close, and then people began to go.
这场即兴舞会因喘不过气而结束，然后人们开始离去。

‘I wish you well, my dear, I heartily wish you well, but I think you’ll be sorry for it,’ said Aunt March to Meg, adding to the bridegroom, as he led her to the carriage, ‘You’ve got a treasure, young man, see that you deserve it.’
“我祝你一切顺利，亲爱的，我衷心祝愿你一切顺利，但我想你会为此感到抱歉，”马奇姨妈对梅格说，当新郎领着她走向马车时，她又对她补充道，“你已经得到了一件宝藏，年轻人，看看你应得的。”

‘That is the prettiest wedding I’ve been to for an age, Ned, and I don’t see why, for there wasn’t a bit of style about it,’ observed Mrs. Moffat to her husband, as they drove away.
“这是我多年来参加过的最漂亮的婚礼，奈德，我不明白为什么，因为它没有一点风格，”他们开车离开时，莫法特夫人对她的丈夫说道。 。

‘Laurie, my lad, if you ever want to indulge in this sort of thing, get one of those little girls to help you, and I shall be perfectly satisfied,’ said Mr. Laurence, settling himself in his easy chair to rest after the excitement of the morning.
“劳里，我的小伙子，如果你想沉迷于这种事情，请找一个小女孩来帮助你，我会非常满意的，”劳伦斯先生说，在他的安乐椅上坐下来休息。早上的兴奋。

‘I’ll do my best to gratify you, Sir,’ was Laurie’s unusually dutiful reply, as he carefully unpinned the posy Jo had put in his buttonhole.
“我会尽力让您满意，先生。”劳里异常尽职地回答道，同时小心翼翼地解开乔插在纽扣孔里的花束。

The little house was not far away, and the only bridal journey Meg had was the quiet walk with John from the old home to the new. When she came down, looking like a pretty Quakeress in her dovecolored suit and straw bonnet tied with white, they all gathered about her to say goodby, as tenderly as if she had been going to make the grand tour.
小房子就在不远处，梅格唯一的新婚之旅就是和约翰一起安静地从老家走到新家。当她下来时，穿着鸽子色的西装，戴着白色的草帽，看起来像一位漂亮的贵格会女教徒，他们都聚集在她周围向她道别，温柔得仿佛她即将进行一次盛大的旅行。

‘Don’t feel that I am separated from you, Marmee dear, or that I love you any the less for loving John so much,’ she said, clinging to her mother, with full eyes for a moment. ‘I shall come every day, Father, and expect to keep my old place in all your hearts, though I am married. Beth is going to be with me a great deal, and the other girls will drop in now and then to laugh at my housekeeping struggles. Thank you all for my happy wedding day. Goodby, goodby!’
“亲爱的妈妈，不要觉得我和你分开了，或者因为我如此爱约翰而减少了对你的爱，”她说，紧贴着她的母亲，眼睛睁得大大的。 “父亲，我每天都会来，尽管我已经结婚了，但我还是希望能在你们心中保留我原来的位置。”贝丝会经常和我在一起，其他女孩也会时不时地过来嘲笑我做家务的挣扎。谢谢大家让我婚礼快乐。再见，再见！

They stood watching her, with faces full of love and hope and tender pride as she walked away, leaning on her husband’s arm, with her hands full of flowers and the June sunshine brightening her happy face—and so Meg’s married life began.
他们站在那里看着她，脸上充满了爱、希望和温柔的自豪，她靠在丈夫的手臂上，手里捧满了鲜花，六月的阳光照亮了她幸福的脸庞——就这样，梅格的婚姻生活开始了。

CHAPTER TWENTY-SIX
第二十六章

It takes people a long time to learn the difference between talent and genius, especially ambitious young men and women. Amy was learning this distinction through much tribulation, for mistaking enthusiasm for inspiration, she attempted every branch of art with youthful audacity. For a long time there was a lull in the ‘mud-pie’ business, and she devoted herself to the finest pen-and-ink drawing, in which she showed such taste and skill that her graceful handiwork proved both pleasant and profitable. But over-strained eyes caused pen and ink to be laid aside for a bold attempt at poker sketching.
人们需要很长时间才能了解天赋和天才之间的区别，尤其是雄心勃勃的年轻男女。艾米经历了很多磨难才学会了这种区别，因为她把热情误认为是灵感，她以年轻的大胆尝试了艺术的每一个分支。很长一段时间，“泥饼”生意平静下来，她全身心投入到最精美的钢笔画中，在画中她表现出了如此的品味和技巧，以至于她优美的手工作品既令人愉快又有利可图。但由于眼睛过度疲劳，他不得不搁置笔墨，大胆尝试扑克素描。

While this attack lasted, the family lived in constant fear of a conflagration, for the odor of burning wood pervaded the house at all hours, smoke issued from attic and shed with alarming frequency, red-hot pokers lay about promiscuously, and Hannah never went to bed without a pail of water and the dinner bell at her door in case of fire. Raphael’s face was found boldly executed on the underside of the moulding board, and Bacchus on the head of a beer barrel. A chanting cherub adorned the cover of the sugar bucket, and attempts to portray Romeo and Juliet supplied kindling for some time.
在这次袭击持续期间，一家人一直生活在对发生火灾的恐惧之中，因为烧木头的气味一直弥漫在房子里，阁楼和棚子里冒出的烟雾以惊人的频率，烧红的火棍乱七八糟地散落在各处，汉娜从来没有去过。睡觉时没有一桶水，门口也没有敲响晚餐铃，以防发生火灾。拉斐尔的脸被大胆地刻在模板的底面上，巴克斯的脸被刻在啤酒桶的头上。糖桶的盖子上装饰着一个吟唱的小天使，并试图描绘罗密欧与朱丽叶有一段时间提供了火种。

From fire to oil was a natural transition for burned fingers, and Amy fell to painting with undiminished ardor. An artist friend fitted her out with his castoff palettes, brushes, and colors, and she daubed away, producing pastoral and marine views such as were never seen on land or sea. Her monstrosities in the way of cattle would have taken prizes at an agricultural fair, and the perilous pitching of her vessels would have produced seasickness in the most nautical observer, if the utter disregard to all known rules of shipbuilding and rigging had not convulsed him with laughter at the first glance. Swarthy boys and dark-eyed Madonnas, staring at you from one corner of the studio, suggested Murillo. Oily brown shadows of faces with a lurid streak in the wrong place, meant Rembrandt. Buxom ladies and dropiscal infants, Rubens, and Turner appeared in tempests of blue thunder, orange lightning, brown rain, and purple clouds, with a tomato-colored splash in the middle, which might be the sun or a bouy, a sailor’s shirt or a king’s robe, as the spectator pleased.
对于烧伤的手指来说，从火到油是一个自然的过渡，艾米以不减的热情开始绘画。一位艺术家朋友为她配备了他废弃的调色板、画笔和颜色，然后她进行涂抹，产生了陆地或海上从未见过的田园和海洋景观。如果她对所有已知的造船和索具规则的完全无视，她的牲畜怪物会在农业博览会上获奖，而她的船只危险的倾斜会让最航海的观察者感到晕船，如果她没有因为完全无视所有已知的造船和索具规则而感到震惊的话。第一眼就笑。穆里略建议说，黝黑的男孩和黑眼睛的圣母在工作室的一个角落里盯着你。脸上油腻的棕色阴影，在错误的地方有一道可怕的条纹，这就是伦勃朗。丰满的女士和垂垂的婴儿，鲁本斯和特纳出现在蓝色雷声、橙色闪电、棕色雨和紫色云的暴风雨中，中间有番茄色的斑点，可能是太阳或浮标，水手的衬衫或国王的长袍，随观众的喜好而定。

Charcoal portraits came next, and the entire family hung in a row, looking as wild and crocky as if just evoked from a coalbin. Softened into crayon sketches, they did better, for the likenesses were good, and Amy’s hair, Jo’s nose, Meg’s mouth, and Laurie’s eyes were pronounced ‘wonderfully fine’. A return to clay and plaster followed, and ghostly casts of her acquaintances haunted corners of the house, or tumbled off closet shelves onto people’s heads. Children were enticed in as models, till their incoherent accounts of her mysterious doings caused Miss Amy to be regarded in the light of a young ogress. Her efforts in this line, however, were brought to an abrupt close by an untoward accident, which quenched her ardor. Other models failing her for a time, she undertook to cast her own pretty foot, and the family were one day alarmed by an unearthly bumping and screaming and running to the rescue, found the young enthusiast hopping wildly about the shed with her foot held fast in a pan full of plaster, which had hardened with unexpected rapidity. With much difficulty and some danger she was dug out, for Jo was so overcome with laughter while she excavated that her knife went too far, cut the poor foot, and left a lasting memorial of one artistic attempt, at least.
接下来是木炭肖像，全家人排成一排，看起来狂野而粗俗，仿佛刚刚从煤箱里唤出来。软化为蜡笔草图后，它们表现得更好，因为它们非常相似，艾米的头发、乔的鼻子、梅格的嘴和劳里的眼睛都被认为“非常好”。随后，人们又回归了粘土和石膏，她熟人的幽灵模型出现在房子的角落里，或者从壁橱架上掉下来砸到人们的头上。孩子们被引诱成为模特，直到他们对艾米小姐神秘行为的语无伦次的描述导致艾米小姐被视为一个年轻的女妖。然而，一场不幸的事故让她在这方面的努力戛然而止，浇灭了她的热情。其他模特一度让她失望，她开始自己铸造漂亮的脚，有一天，一家人被一种奇怪的碰撞和尖叫声吓坏了，跑去营救，发现这位年轻的狂热爱好者在棚子里疯狂地跳来跳去，她的脚被紧紧抓住放在装满石膏的锅里，石膏以意想不到的速度硬化了。费了很大的劲，还有些危险，她才被挖出来，因为乔在挖掘时笑得很开心，以至于她的刀走得太远，割伤了可怜的脚，至少为一次艺术尝试留下了永久的纪念。

After this Amy subsided, till a mania for sketching from nature set her to haunting river, field, and wood, for picturesque studies, and sighing for ruins to copy. She caught endless colds sitting on damp grass to book ‘delicious bit’, composed of a stone, a stump, one mushroom, and a broken mullein stalk, or ‘a heavenly mass of clouds’, that looked like a choice display of featherbeds when done. She sacrificed her complexion floating on the river in the midsummer sun to study light and shade, and got a wrinkle over her nose trying after ‘points of sight’, or whatever the squint-and-string performance is called.
此后，艾米平息下来，直到对大自然写生的狂热让她走向令人难忘的河流、田野和树林，进行如画的研究，并叹息着要临摹废墟。她坐在潮湿的草地上，患上了无尽的感冒，预订了“美味的部分”，由一块石头、一个树桩、一个蘑菇和一根折断的毛蕊花茎组成，或者“一团天堂般的云彩”，看起来就像是精心挑选的羽毛床展示。完毕。她牺牲了在仲夏阳光下漂浮在河面上的肤色来研究光与影，并在尝试“视线”（或者无论什么叫斜视和弦表演）时鼻子上出现了皱纹。

If ‘genius is eternal patience’, as Michelangelo affirms, Amy had some claim to the divine attribute, for she persevered in spite of all obstacles, failures, and discouragements, firmly believing that in time she should do something worthy to be called ‘high art’.
如果像米开朗基罗所说的那样，“天才就是永恒的耐心”，那么艾米就拥有某种神圣的属性，因为她克服了所有的障碍、失败和灰心，坚持不懈，坚信迟早她应该做一些值得被称为“高尚”的事情。艺术'。

She was learning, doing, and enjoying other things, meanwhile, for she had resolved to be an attractive and accomplished woman, even if she never became a great artist. Here she succeeded better, for she was one of those happily created beings who please without effort, make friends everywhere, and take life so gracefully and easily that less fortunate souls are tempted to believe that such are born under a lucky star. Everybody liked her, for among her good gifts was tact. She had an instinctive sense of what was pleasing and proper, always said the right thing to the right person, did just what suited the time and place, and was so self-possessed that her sisters used to say, ‘If Amy went to court without any rehearsal beforehand, she’d know exactly what to do.’
与此同时，她正在学习、做事和享受其他事情，因为她决心成为一个有魅力、有成就的女人，即使她从未成为一名伟大的艺术家。在这里，她取得了更好的成功，因为她是那些幸福的人之一，不费吹灰之力就能取悦人，到处交朋友，生活得如此优雅和轻松，以至于不幸的灵魂很容易相信这样的人是在幸运星下出生的。每个人都喜欢她，因为她的天赋之一就是机智。她对什么是令人愉快和适当的事情有一种本能的感觉，总是对正确的人说正确的话，做适合时间和地点的事情，并且如此镇定，以至于她的姐妹们常常说，“如果艾米上法庭”无需事先排练，她就知道该怎么做。

One of her weaknesses was a desire to move in ‘our best society’, without being quite sure what the best really was. Money, position, fashionable accomplishments, and elegant manners were most desirable things in her eyes, and she liked to associate with those who possessed them, often mistaking the false for the true, and admiring what was not admirable. Never forgetting that by birth she was a gentlewoman, she cultivated her aristocratic tastes and feelings, so that when the opportunity came she might be ready to take the place from which poverty now excluded her.
她的弱点之一是渴望进入“我们最好的社会”，但不太确定什么是最好的社会。金钱、地位、时尚的修养、优雅的举止在她眼里是最令人向往的东西，她喜欢与拥有这些东西的人交往，常常以假乱真，欣赏不值得欣赏的东西。永远不要忘记，她生来就是一位淑女，她培养了自己的贵族品味和感情，这样当机会到来时，她就可以准备好取代现在贫困所排斥的地位。

‘My lady,’ as her friends called her, sincerely desired to be a genuine lady, and was so at heart, but had yet to learn that money cannot buy refinement of nature, that rank does not always confer nobility, and that true breeding makes itself felt in spite of external drawbacks.
她的朋友们这样称呼她“我的女士”，她真诚地渴望成为一名真正的女士，并且内心如此，但她还不知道金钱买不到优雅的气质，等级并不总是意味着高贵，而真正的教养尽管存在外部缺陷，但仍能感受到这一点。

‘I want to ask a favor of you, Mamma,’ Amy said, coming in with an important air one day.
“妈妈，我想请你帮个忙。”有一天，艾米带着一副重要的神情进来了。

‘Well, little girl, what is it?’ replied her mother, in whose eyes the stately young lady still remained ‘the baby’.
“好吧，小女孩，这是什么？”她的母亲回答道，在她的眼里，这位庄严的年轻女士仍然是“婴儿”。

‘Our drawing class breaks up next week, and before the girls separate for the summer, I want to ask them out here for a day. They are wild to see the river, sketch the broken bridge, and copy some of the things they admire in my book. They have been very kind to me in many ways, and I am grateful, for they are all rich and I know I am poor, yet they never made any difference.’
“我们的绘画课下周就放假了，在女孩们分开过暑假之前，我想邀请她们来这里玩一天。他们疯狂地想看看这条河，画下断桥，并抄写我书中的一些他们欣赏的东西。他们在很多方面对我都很好，我很感激，因为他们都很富有，我知道我很穷，但他们从来没有带来任何改变。”

‘Why should they?’ And Mrs. March put the question with what the girls called her ‘Maria Theresa air’.
“她们为什么要这样做？”马奇夫人用女孩们称之为“玛丽亚·特蕾莎空气”的方式提出了这个问题。

‘You know as well as I that it does make a difference with nearly everyone, so don’t ruffle up like a dear, motherly hen, when your chickens get pecked by smarter birds. The ugly duckling turned out a swan, you know.’ And Amy smiled without bitterness, for she possessed a happy temper and hopeful spirit.
“你和我一样知道，这确实对几乎每个人都有影响，所以当你的小鸡被更聪明的鸟啄时，不要像一只亲爱的母鸡一样发怒。丑小鸭变成了天鹅，你知道的。”艾米微笑着，没有苦涩，因为她拥有快乐的脾气和充满希望的精神。

Mrs. March laughed, and smoothed down her maternal pride as she asked, ‘Well, my swan, what is your plan?’
马奇夫人笑了，平复了她作为母亲的骄傲，问道：“好吧，我的天鹅，你有什么计划吗？”

‘I should like to ask the girls out to lunch next week, to take them for a drive to the places they want to see, a row on the river, perhaps, and make a little artistic fete for them.’
“我想请女孩们下周出去吃午饭，带她们开车去她们想去的地方，也许可以在河上划船，并为她们举办一场小小的艺术盛宴。”

‘That looks feasible. What do you want for lunch? Cake, sandwiches, fruit, and coffee will be all that is necessary, I suppose?’
'这看起来可行。你想要什么午餐？我想蛋糕、三明治、水果和咖啡就足够了？

‘Oh, dear, no! We must have cold tongue and chicken, French chocolate and ice cream, besides. The girls are used to such things, and I want my lunch to be proper and elegant, though I do work for my living.’
‘噢，亲爱的，不！除此之外，我们还必须有冷舌和鸡肉、法式巧克力和冰淇淋。女孩们已经习惯了这样的事情，我希望我的午餐既得体又优雅，尽管我为了生活而工作。

‘How many young ladies are there?’ asked her mother, beginning to look sober.
“有多少位年轻女士？”她母亲问道，看上去开始清醒了。

‘Twelve or fourteen in the class, but I dare say they won’t all come.’
“班里有十二或十四个人，但我敢说他们不会都来。”

‘Bless me, child, you will have to charter an omnibus to carry them about.’
“上帝保佑我，孩子，你得包一辆公共汽车来运他们。”

‘Why, Mother, how can you think of such a thing? Not more than six or eight will probably come, so I shall hire a beach wagon and borrow Mr. Laurence’s cherry-bounce.’ (Hannah’s pronunciation of charabanc.)
‘为什么，妈妈，你怎么会想到这种事呢？可能不会超过六到八个人，所以我要租一辆沙滩车，借用劳伦斯先生的樱桃弹跳车。”（汉娜对 charabanc 的发音。）

‘All of this will be expensive, Amy.’
“所有这些都会很昂贵，艾米。”

‘Not very. I’ve calculated the cost, and I’ll pay for it myself.’
'不是特别的。我算好了费用，我自己付。

‘Don’t you think, dear, that as these girls are used to such things, and the best we can do will be nothing new, that some simpler plan would be pleasanter to them, as a change if nothing more, and much better for us than buying or borrowing what we don’t need, and attempting a style not in keeping with our circumstances?’
“亲爱的，你难道不认为这些女孩已经习惯了这样的事情，而我们能做的最好的事情也没什么新鲜的，一些更简单的计划对她们来说会更愉快，至少作为一种改变，而且更好对我们来说，而不是购买或借用我们不需要的东西，并尝试一种不符合我们情况的风格？

‘If I can’t have it as I like, I don’t care to have it at all. I know that I can carry it out perfectly well, if you and the girls will help a little, and I don’t see why I can’t if I’m willing to pay for it,’ said Amy, with the decision which opposition was apt to change into obstinacy.
‘如果我不能随心所欲地拥有它，我就根本不想拥有它。 “我知道，如果你和女孩们愿意帮忙的话，我可以很好地完成这件事，如果我愿意为此付出代价，我不明白为什么我不能这样做。”艾米说道。反对很容易变成顽固。

Mrs. March knew that experience was an excellent teacher, and when it was possible she left her children to learn alone the lessons which she would gladly have made easier, if they had not objected to taking advice as much as they did salts and senna.
马奇夫人知道经验是一位优秀的老师，只要有可能，她就会让孩子们自己学习课程，如果他们不像盐和番泻叶那样反对接受建议，她很乐意让这些课程变得更容易。

‘Very well, Amy, if your heart is set upon it, and you see your way through without too great an outlay of money, time, and temper, I’ll say no more. Talk it over with the girls, and whichever way you decide, I’ll do my best to help you.’
“很好，艾米，如果你一心一意，而且你不用花费太多金钱、时间和脾气就能找到办法，我就不再多说了。和女孩们商量一下，无论你决定怎样，我都会尽力帮助你。”

‘Thanks, Mother, you are always so kind.’ And away went Amy to lay her plan before her sisters. Meg agreed at once, and promised to her aid, gladly offering anything she possessed, from her little house itself to her very best saltspoons. But Jo frowned upon the whole project and would have nothing to do with it at first.
“谢谢，妈妈，你总是那么仁慈。”艾米走开，把她的计划告诉了她的姐妹们。梅格立即同意了，并答应帮助她，并乐意提供她所拥有的一切，从她的小房子到她最好的盐勺。但乔对整个项目不以为然，一开始也不愿参与其中。

‘Why in the world should you spend your money, worry your family, and turn the house upside down for a parcel of girls who don’t care a sixpence for you? I thought you had too much pride and sense to truckle to any mortal woman just because she wears French boots and rides in a coupe,’ said Jo, who, being called from the tragic climax of her novel, was not in the best mood for social enterprises.
“你到底为什么要花你的钱，让你的家人担心，为了一群不关心你六便士的女孩而把房子翻个底朝天？ “我认为你有太多的骄傲和理智，不会仅仅因为任何一个穿着法国靴子、开着轿跑车的凡人女人就屈从于她，”乔说。社会企业。

‘I don’t truckle, and I hate being patronized as much as you do!’ returned Amy indignantly, for the two still jangled when such questions arose. ‘The girls do care for me, and I for them, and there’s a great deal of kindness and sense and talent among them, in spite of what you call fashionable nonsense. You don’t care to make people like you, to go into good society, and cultivate your manners and tastes. I do, and I mean to make the most of every chance that comes. You can go through the world with your elbows out and your nose in the air, and call it independence, if you like. That’s not my way.’
“我不卑躬屈膝，而且我和你一样讨厌被人居高临下！”艾米愤怒地回答道，因为当出现这样的问题时，两人仍然吵吵嚷嚷。 “女孩们确实很关心我，我也很关心她们，她们之中充满了善良、理智和才华，尽管有你们所说的时髦的废话。你不关心让人们喜欢你，不关心进入上流社会，也不关心培养你的举止和品味。我愿意，而且我打算充分利用每一个出现的机会。你可以昂首挺胸地走遍这个世界，如果你愿意的话，可以称之为独立。那不是我的方式。

When Amy had whetted her tongue and freed her mind she usually got the best of it, for she seldom failed to have common sense on her side, while Jo carried her love of liberty and hate of conventionalities to such an unlimited extent that she naturally found herself worsted in an argument. Amy’s definition of Jo’s idea of independence was such a good hit that both burst out laughing, and the discussion took a more amiable turn. Much against her will, Jo at length consented to sacrifice a day to Mrs. Grundy, and help her sister through what she regarded as ‘a nonsensical business’.
当艾米磨砺了她的舌头并解放了她的思想时，她通常会得到最好的结果，因为她很少不具备常识，而乔则将她对自由的热爱和对传统的憎恨带到了如此无限的程度，以至于她自然地发现她自己在一场争论中败下阵来。艾米对乔独立思想的定义非常受欢迎，两人都笑了起来，讨论也变得更加友好。乔最终同意为格伦迪夫人牺牲一天，并帮助她的妹妹度过她认为“无意义的事情”，这与她的意愿背道而驰。

The invitations were sent, nearly all accepted, and the following Monday was set apart for the grand event. Hannah was out of humor because her week’s work was deranged, and prophesied that ‘ef the washin’ and ironin’ warn’t done reg’lar, nothin’ would go well anywheres”. This hitch in the mainspring of the domestic machinery had a bad effect upon the whole concern, but Amy’s motto was ‘Nil desperandum’, and having made up her mind what to do, she proceeded to do it in spite of all obstacles. To begin with, Hannah’s cooking didn’t turn out well. The chicken was tough, the tongue too salt, and the chocolate wouldn’t froth properly. Then the cake and ice cost more than Amy expected, so did the wagon, and various other expenses, which seemed trifling at the outset, counted up rather alarmingly afterward. Beth got a cold and took to her bed. Meg had an unusual number of callers to keep her at home, and Jo was in such a divided state of mind that her breakages, accidents, and mistakes were uncommonly numerous, serious, and trying.
邀请函已发出，几乎全部被接受，并在接下来的周一举行了盛大的活动。汉娜很不幽默，因为她一周的工作很混乱，并预言“如果洗涤和熨烫不按规矩进行，那么任何地方都不会顺利”。家用机械主发条的故障对整个公司产生了不良影响，但艾米的座右铭是“Nil desperandum”，当她决定要做什么时，她不顾一切障碍继续去做。首先，汉娜的厨艺并不好。鸡肉很硬，舌头太咸，巧克力也打不出泡沫。然后蛋糕和冰块的价格比艾米预期的要高，马车的价格也比艾米想象的要高，还有其他各种费用，起初看起来微不足道，后来却变得相当惊人。贝丝感冒了，躺在床上。梅格接到了异常多的来电，让她待在家里，而乔的精神状态如此分裂，以至于她的破损、事故和错误异常多、严重且令人费劲。

It it was not fair on Monday, the young ladies were to come on Tuesday, and arrangement which aggravated Jo and Hannah to the last degree. On Monday morning the weather was in that undecided state which is more exasperating than a steady pour. It drizzled a little, shone a little, blew a little, and didn’t make up its mind till it was too late for anyone else to make up theirs. Amy was up at dawn, hustling people out of their beds and through their breakfasts, that the house might be got in order. The parlor struck her as looking uncommonly shabby, but without stopping to sigh for what she had not, she skillfully made the best of what she had, arranging chairs over the worn places in the carpet, covering stains on the walls with homemade statuary, which gave an artistic air to the room, as did the lovely vases of flowers Jo scattered about.
如果周一不公平，年轻女士们周二就要来，这样的安排让乔和汉娜非常恼火。周一早上，天气阴晴不定，比持续的倾盆大雨更令人恼火。天下着毛毛雨，天亮了，风吹了，直到其他人都来不及下定决心时才下定决心。艾米黎明时分就起床了，催促人们起床吃早餐，以便把房子收拾干净。客厅给她的印象是异常破旧，但她并没有停下来感叹自己没有什么，而是巧妙地利用了自己拥有的东西，在地毯上破旧的地方安排了椅子，用自制的雕像遮盖了墙上的污渍，乔散落在各处的可爱花瓶给房间增添了一种艺术气息。

The lunch looked charming, and as she surveyed it, she sincerely hoped it would taste well, and that the borrowed glass, china, and silver would get safely home again. The carriages were promised, Meg and Mother were all ready to do the honors, Beth was able to help Hannah behind the scenes, Jo had engaged to be as lively and amiable as an absent mind, and aching head, and a very decided disapproval of everybody and everything would allow, and as she wearily dressed, Amy cheered herself with anticipations of the happy moment when, lunch safely over, she should drive away with her friends for an afternoon of artistic delights, for the ‘cherry bounce’ and the broken bridge were her strong points.
午餐看起来很诱人，当她端详着它时，她真诚地希望它味道好，并且借来的玻璃杯、瓷器和银器能安全地回到家。马车已经答应了，梅格和母亲都准备好履行这一荣誉，贝丝能够在幕后帮助汉娜，乔则承诺表现得像心不在焉、头痛和坚决反对一样活泼和和蔼可亲。一切都允许，当她疲惫地穿好衣服时，艾米为自己欢呼雀跃，期待着幸福的时刻，午餐安全结束后，她应该和朋友们一起开车离开，享受一个下午的艺术乐趣，享受“樱桃弹跳”和破碎的时光。桥牌是她的强项。

Then came the hours of suspense, during which she vibrated from parlor to porch, while public opinion varied like the weathercock. A smart shower at eleven had evidently quenched the enthusiasm of the young ladies who were to arrive at twelve, for nobody came, and at two the exhausted family sat down in a blaze of sunshine to consume the perishable portions of the feast, that nothing might be lost.
接下来是充满悬念的时刻，在此期间，她从客厅走到门廊，而公众的意见就像风向标一样变化无常。十一点的一场漂亮的淋浴显然浇灭了十二点到达的年轻女士们的热情，因为没有人来，两点时，筋疲力尽的一家人坐在灿烂的阳光下吃掉盛宴上易腐烂的部分，这样就没有什么可以了。迷路了。

‘No doubt about the weather today, they will certainly come, so we must fly round and be ready for them,’ said Amy, as the sun woke her next morning. She spoke briskly, but in her secret soul she wished she had said nothing about Tuesday, for her interest like her cake was getting a little stale.
“毫无疑问今天的天气，他们肯定会来，所以我们必须飞来飞去，为他们做好准备，”艾米说，第二天早上太阳唤醒了她。她说得轻快，但在她内心深处，她希望自己对星期二什么也没说，因为她的兴趣就像她的蛋糕变得有点陈旧了。

‘I can’t get any lobsters, so you will have to do without salad today,’ said Mr. March, coming in half an hour later, with an expression of placid despair.
“我买不到龙虾，所以今天你就得不吃沙拉了，”半小时后进来的马奇先生说道，表情平静而绝望。

‘Use the chicken then, the toughness won’t matter in a salad,’ advised his wife.
“那就用鸡肉吧，沙拉里的韧性并不重要，”他的妻子建议道。

‘Hannah left it on the kitchen table a minute, and the kittens got at it. I’m very sorry, amy,’ added Beth, who was still a patroness of cats.
“汉娜把它放在厨房的桌子上一分钟，小猫们就开始吃它了。我很抱歉，艾米，”贝丝补充道，她仍然是猫的守护神。

‘Then I must have a lobster, for tongue alone won’t do,’ said Amy decidedly.
“那我一定要吃一只龙虾，因为光靠舌头是不行的。”艾米斩钉截铁地说。

‘Shall I rush into town and demand one?’ asked Jo, with the magnanimity of a martyr.
“要我冲进城去要一个吗？”乔带着烈士般的宽宏大量问道。

‘You’d come bringing it home under your arm without any paper, just to try me. I’ll go myself,’ answered Amy, whose temper was beginning to fail.
“你把它夹在腋下带回家，没有带任何纸，只是为了试试我。 “我自己去吧。”艾米回答道，她的脾气开始消退。

Shrouded in a thick veil and armed with a genteel traveling basket, she departed, feeling that a cool drive would soothe her ruffled spirit and fit her for the labors of the day. After some delay, the object of her desire was procured, likewise a bottle of dressing to prevent further loss of time at home, and off she drove again, well pleased with her own forethought.
她裹着厚厚的面纱，拎着一个优雅的旅行篮，出发了，觉得凉爽的驾驶会抚平她烦躁的精神，让她适合一天的劳作。过了一会儿，她得到了她想要的东西，同样是一瓶敷料，以免在家里进一步浪费时间，然后她又开车出发了，对自己的深谋远虑感到非常满意。

As the omnibus contained only one other passenger, a sleepy old lady, Amy pocketed her veil and beguiled the tedium of the way by trying to find out where all her money had gone to. So busy was she with her card full of refractory figures that she did not observe a newcomer, who entered without stopping the vehicle, till a masculine voice said, ‘Good morning, Miss March,’ and, looking up, she beheld one of Laurie’s most elegant college friends. Fervently hoping that he would get out before she did, Amy utterly ignored the basket at her feet, and congratulating herself that she had on her new traveling dress, returned the young man’s greeting with her usual suavity and spirit.
由于公共汽车上只有另一位乘客，一位昏昏欲睡的老太太，艾米把面纱装进口袋，试图找出她所有的钱都去哪儿了，以打发旅途的单调乏味。她忙着处理她的卡片，上面写满了难以捉摸的数字，以至于她没有注意到一个新来者，他没有停下车就进来了，直到一个阳刚的声音说：“早上好，马奇小姐。”抬头一看，她看到了劳里的一个最优雅的大学朋友。艾米热切地希望他能在她之前出去，完全不顾脚下的篮子，庆幸自己穿上了新的旅行服，用她一贯的温和和精神回应了年轻人的问候。

They got on excellently, for Amy’s chief care was soon set at rest by learning that the gentleman would leave first, and she was chatting away in a peculiarly lofty strain, when the old lady got out. In stumbling to the door, she upset the basket, and—oh horror!—the lobster, in all its vulgar size and brilliancy, was revealed to the highborn eyes of a Tudor.
他们相处得很好，因为得知这位绅士要先离开后，艾米的主要照顾很快就得到了休息，当老太太走了出来时，她正在用一种特别高调的语气聊着天。当她跌跌撞撞地走到门口时，她打翻了篮子，然后——哦，太恐怖了！——龙虾，以其粗俗的尺寸和光彩，暴露在都铎贵族的眼睛里。

‘By Jove, she’s forgotten her dinner!’ cried the unconscious youth, poking the scarlet monster into its place with his cane, and preparing to hand out the basket after the old lady.
“天哪，她忘了吃晚饭了！”失去知觉的年轻人喊道，用拐杖把猩红色的怪物按到了原来的位置，准备把篮子递给老太太。

‘Please don’t—it’s—it’s mine,’ murmured Amy, with a face nearly as red as her fish.
“请不要——这是——这是我的，”艾米低声说道，她的脸几乎和她的鱼一样红。

‘Oh, really, I beg pardon. It’s an uncommonly fine one, isn’t it?’ said Tudor, with great presence of mind, and an air of sober interest that did credit to his breeding.
‘哦，真的，请原谅。 “这真是一件非同寻常的好事，不是吗？”都铎语气沉着，神情严肃，兴趣盎然，这一切都归功于他的教养。

Amy recovered herself in a breath, set her basket boldly on the seat, and said, laughing, ‘Don’t you wish you were to have some of the salad he’s going to make, and to see the charming young ladies who are to eat it?’
艾米缓了口气，大着胆子把篮子放在座位上，笑道：“你不希望能吃到他要做的沙拉，看看正在吃东西的迷人小姐姐们吗？”它？'

Now that was tact, for two of the ruling foibles of the masculine mind were touched. The lobster was instantly surrounded by a halo of pleasing reminiscences, and curiosity about ‘the charming young ladies’ diverted his mind from the comical mishap.
现在这是机智的，因为男性思想的两个主要弱点被触动了。龙虾立刻被令人愉快的回忆所包围，对“迷人的年轻女士”的好奇心转移了他对滑稽灾难的注意力。

‘I suppose he’ll laugh and joke over it with Laurie, but I shan’t see them, that’s a comfort,’ thought Amy, as Tudor bowed and departed.
“我想他会大笑并与劳里开玩笑，但我不会看到他们，这是一种安慰，”当都铎鞠躬离开时，艾米想。

She did not mention this meeting at home (though she discovered that, thanks to the upset, her new dress was much damaged by the rivulets of dressing that meandered down the skirt), but went through with the preparations which now seemed more irksome than before, and at twelve o’clock all was ready again. feeling that the neighbors were interested in her movements, she wished to efface the memory of yesterday’s failure by a grand success today, so she ordered the ‘cherry bounce’, and drove away in state to meet and escort her guests to the banquet.
她没有在家里提到这次会议（尽管她发现，由于心烦意乱，她的新衣服被沿着裙子蜿蜒而下的衣服的小溪严重损坏了），但她还是完成了现在看来比以前更令人厌烦的准备工作。到了十二点，一切又准备好了。她感觉到邻居们对她的举动很感兴趣，她想以今天的巨大成功来抹去昨天的失败，于是她点了“樱桃弹跳”，然后堂堂正正地开车出去迎接并护送客人前往宴会。

‘There’s the rumble, they’re coming! I’ll go onto the porch and meet them. It looks hospitable, and I want the poor child to have a good time after all her trouble,’ said Mrs. March, suiting the action to the word. But after one glance, she retired, with an indescribable expression, for looking quite lost in the big carriage, sat Amy and one young lady.
‘轰隆声传来，他们来了！我会到门廊去见他们。它看起来很热情，我希望这个可怜的孩子在经历了所有的麻烦之后能玩得开心。”马奇太太言出必行。但看了一眼，她就退了下去，脸上的表情难以形容，因为大马车里坐着艾米和一位小姐，看上去很迷茫。

‘Run, Beth, and help Hannah clear half the things off the table. It will be too absurd to put a luncheon for twelve before a single girl,’ cried Jo, hurrying away to the lower regions, too excited to stop even for a laugh.
“快跑，贝丝，帮汉娜把桌子上的一半东西清理掉。” “在一个女孩面前安排十二人的午餐太荒唐了。”乔喊道，急忙向地势较低的地区走去，兴奋得连停下来笑一笑都没有。

In came Amy, quite calm and delightfully cordial to the one guest who had kept her promise. The rest of the family, being of a dramatic turn, played their parts equally well, and Miss Eliott found them a most hilarious set, for it was impossible to control entirely the merriment which possessed them. The remodeled lunch being gaily partaken of, the studio and garden visited, and art discussed with enthusiasm, Amy ordered a buggy (alas for the elegant cherry-bounce), and drove her friend quietly about the neighborhood till sunset, when ‘the party went out’.
艾米进来了，她非常平静，对一位遵守诺言的客人非常热情。家庭的其他成员，戏剧性的转变，也同样出色地扮演了他们的角色，艾略特小姐发现他们是一个最搞笑的组合，因为不可能完全控制他们的欢乐。愉快地享用了改造后的午餐，参观了工作室和花园，热情地讨论了艺术，艾米订购了一辆越野车（唉，优雅的樱桃弹跳），开车送她的朋友在附近安静地转悠，直到日落，这时“聚会开始了”。出去'。

As she came walking in, looking very tired but as composed as ever, she observed that every vestige of the unfortunate fete had disappeared, except a suspicious pucker about the corners of Jo’s mouth.
当她走进来时，看上去很疲倦，但一如既往地镇静，她发现不幸的节日的所有痕迹都消失了，除了乔嘴角可疑的皱褶。

‘You’ve had a loverly afternoon for your drive, dear,’ said her mother, as respectfully as if the whole twelve had come.
“亲爱的，你开车度过了一个愉快的下午，”她母亲恭敬地说，好像十二个人都来了一样。

‘Miss Eliott is a very sweet girl, and seemed to enjoy herself, I thought,’ observed Beth, with unusual warmth.
“艾略特小姐是个非常可爱的女孩，我想，她似乎很享受，”贝丝异常热情地说道。

‘Could you spare me some of your cake? I really need some, I have so much company, and I can’t make such delicious stuff as yours,’ asked Meg soberly.
‘你能分给我一些蛋糕吗？ “我真的需要一些，我有这么多陪伴，我做不出像你这么好吃的东西。”梅格清醒地问道。

‘Take it all. I’m the only one here who likes sweet things, and it will mold before I can dispose of it,’ answered Amy, thinking with a sigh of the generous store she had laid in for such an end as this.
‘全部拿走。 “我是这里唯一一个喜欢甜食的人，在我处理掉它之前，它就会发霉了。”艾米回答道，叹了口气，想到她为了这样的目的而投入的慷慨积蓄。

‘It’s a pity Laurie isn’t here to help us,’ began Jo, as they sat down to ice cream and salad for the second time in two days.
“很遗憾劳里没有来帮助我们，”乔开始说道，这是他们两天内第二次坐下来吃冰淇淋和沙拉。

A warning look from her mother checked any further remarks, and the whole family ate in heroic silence, till Mr. March mildly observed, ‘salad was one of the favorite dishes of the ancients, and Evelyn...’ Here a general explosion of laughter cut short the ‘history of salads’, to the great surprise of the learned gentleman.
她母亲用警告的眼神阻止了进一步的评论，全家人都在英勇的沉默中吃饭，直到马奇先生温和地说，“沙拉是古人最喜欢的菜肴之一，而伊芙琳……”笑声缩短了“沙拉的历史”，这让这位博学的绅士大吃一惊。

‘Bundle everything into a basket and send it to the Hummels. Germans like messes. I’m sick of the sight of this, and there’s no reason you should all die of a surfeit because I’ve been a fool,’ cried Amy, wiping her eyes. ‘I thought I should have died when I saw you two girls rattling about in the what-you-call-it, like two little kernels in a very big nutshell, and Mother waiting in state to receive the throng,’ sighed Jo, quite spent with laughter.
“把所有东西都装进篮子，然后寄给胡梅尔斯。德国人喜欢混乱。我已经厌倦了这种景象，而且没有理由让你们都死于暴食，因为我一直是个傻瓜。”艾米擦着眼睛喊道。 “当我看到你们两个女孩在你们所说的那个东西里叽叽喳喳地走来走去时，我以为我应该死了，就像一个大果壳里的两颗小谷粒，而母亲则在盛装等待着迎接人群，”乔叹了口气，相当伴随着欢笑度过。

‘I’m very sorry you were disappointed, dear, but we all did our best to satisfy you,’ said Mrs. March, in a tone full of motherly regret.
“我很抱歉让你失望了，亲爱的，但我们都尽力让你满意，”马奇夫人说道，语气里充满了母亲般的遗憾。

‘I am satisfied. I’ve done what I undertook, and it’s not my fault that it failed. I comfort myself with that,’ said Amy with a little quiver in her voice. ‘I thank you all very much for helping me, and I’ll thank you still more if you won’t allude to it for a month, at least.’
'我很满意。我已经做了我所承担的事情，失败并不是我的错。我以此来安慰自己。”艾米声音有些颤抖地说。 “我非常感谢你们对我的帮助，如果你们至少一个月内不再提及这件事，我会更加感谢你们。”

No one did for several months, but the word ‘fete’ always produced a general smile, and Laurie’s birthday gift to Amy was a tiny coral lobster in the shape of a charm for her watch guard.
好几个月没有人这样做了，但“节日”这个词总是会引起普遍的微笑，劳里给艾米的生日礼物是一只小珊瑚龙虾，形状像她的值班警卫的魅力。

CHAPTER TWENTY-SEVEN
第二十七章

Fortune suddenly smiled upon Jo, and dropped a good luck penny in her path. Not a golden penny, exactly, but I doubt if half a million would have given more real happiness then did the little sum that came to her in this wise.
命运突然向乔微笑，在她路上扔下了一枚好运硬币。确切地说，不是一分钱，但我怀疑五十万是否会比她以这种方式得到的那一点点钱给她带来更多真正的幸福。

Every few weeks she would shut herself up in her room, put on her scribbling suit, and ‘fall into a vortex’, as she expressed it, writing away at her novel with all her heart and soul, for till that was finished she could find no peace. Her ‘scribbling suit’ consisted of a black woolen pinafore on which she could wipe her pen at will, and a cap of the same material, adorned with a cheerful red bow, into which she bundled her hair when the decks were cleared for action. This cap was a beacon to the inquiring eyes of her family, who during these periods kept their distance, merely popping in their heads semi-occasionally to ask, with interest, ‘Does genius burn, Jo?’ They did not always venture even to ask this question, but took an observation of the cap, and judged accordingly. If this expressive article of dress was drawn low upon the forehead, it was a sign that hard work was going on, in exciting moments it was pushed rakishly askew, and when despair seized the author it was plucked wholly off, and cast upon the floor, and cast upon the floor. At such times the intruder silently withdrew, and not until the red bow was seen gaily erect upon the gifted brow, did anyone dare address Jo.
每隔几周，她就会把自己关在房间里，穿上她的涂鸦服，用她自己的话来说，“陷入漩涡”，全心全意地写她的小说，因为在完成之前，她可以不得安宁。她的“涂鸦套装”包括一件黑色羊毛围裙，她可以在上面随意擦笔，还有一顶同样材质的帽子，上面装饰着一个欢快的红色蝴蝶结，当甲板准备好行动时，她把头发束在帽子里。这顶帽子是她家人好奇的目光中的灯塔，在这些时期，他们保持着距离，只是偶尔会饶有兴趣地问：“天才会燃烧吗，乔？”他们甚至不总是冒险去问。问这个问题，但观察了帽子，并做出了相应的判断。如果这件富有表现力的衣服被拉低到前额，则表明正在进行艰苦的工作，在激动人心的时刻，它会被潇洒地推歪，当作者绝望时，它会被完全扯下来，扔在地板上，并扔在地板上。每逢这种时候，闯入者就默默地退开，直到看见那张红色蝴蝶结欢快地竖在那张才华横溢的额头上，才有人敢对乔说话。

She did not think herself a genius by any means, but when the writing fit came on, she gave herself up to it with entire abandon, and led a blissful life, unconscious of want, care, or bad weather, while she sat safe and happy in an imaginary world, full of friends almost as real and dear to her as any in the flesh. Sleep forsook her eyes, meals stood untasted, day and night were all too short to enjoy the happiness which blessed her only at such times, and made these hours worth living, even if they bore no other fruit. The devine afflatus usually lasted a week or two, and then she emerged from her ‘vortex’, hungry, sleepy, cross, or despondent.
无论如何，她并不认为自己是天才，但当写作开始时，她全心全意地投入其中，过着幸福的生活，没有意识到匮乏、忧虑或恶劣天气，同时安全地坐着在一个想象的世界里快乐，充满了对她来说几乎像现实中的朋友一样真实和亲爱的朋友。睡眠剥夺了她的眼睛，饭菜没有品尝，白天和黑夜都太短暂，无法享受只有在这种时候才祝福她的幸福，并使这些时间值得度过，即使它们没有结出其他果实。这种神圣的灵感通常会持续一两周，然后她就会从“漩涡”中走出来，饥饿、困倦、愤怒或沮丧。

She was just recovering from one of these attacks when she was prevailed upon to escort Miss Crocker to a lecture, and in return for her virtue was rewarded with a new idea. It was a People’s Course, the lecture on the Pyramids, and Jo rather wondered at the choice of such a subject for such an audience, but took it for granted that some great social evil would be remedied or some great want supplied by unfolding the glories of the Pharaohs to an audience whose thoughts were busy with the price of coal and flour, and whose lives were spent in trying to solve harder riddles than that of the Sphinx.
当她刚刚从其中一次袭击中恢复过来时，她被说服护送克罗克小姐去听讲座，作为对她美德的回报，她得到了一个新想法。这是一门人民课程，关于金字塔的讲座，乔对为这样的听众选择这样的主题感到相当惊讶，但理所当然地认为，通过展现金字塔的荣耀，某些巨大的社会罪恶将得到纠正，或者某些巨大的需求将得到解决。法老王向那些满脑子都是煤炭和面粉价格、一生都在试图解开比狮身人面像更难的谜语的观众讲述了法老王的故事。

They were early, and while Miss Crocker set the heel of her stocking, Jo amused herself by examining the faces of the people who occupied the seat with them. On her left were two matrons, with massive foreheads and bonnets to match, discussing Women’s Rights and making tatting. Beyond sat a pair of humble lovers, artlessly holding each other by the hand, a somber spinster eating peppermints out of a paper bag, and an old gentleman taking his preparatory nap behind a yellow bandanna. On her right, her only neighbor was a studious looking lad absorbed in a newspaper.
他们来得很早，当克罗克小姐把袜子后跟放好时，乔就打量着与他们同座的人的脸，以此自娱自乐。她左边是两位女士，额头很大，帽子与之相配，正在讨论妇女权利并制作纹身。远处坐着一对卑微的恋人，天真地握着对方的手，一个忧郁的老处女吃着纸袋里的薄荷糖，还有一位老绅士在黄色头巾后面准备小睡。在她的右边，她唯一的邻居是一个看上去好学的小伙子，他正在全神贯注地阅读报纸。

It was a pictorial sheet, and Jo examined the work of art nearest her, idly wondering what fortuitous concatenation of circumstances needed the melodramatic illustration of an Indian in full war costume, tumbling over a precipice with a wolf at his throat, while two infuriated young gentlemen, with unnaturally small feet and big eyes, were stabbing each other close by, and a disheveled female was flying away in the background with her mouth wide open. Pausing to turn a page, the lad saw her looking and, with boyish good nature offered half his paper, saying bluntly, ‘want to read it? That’s a first-rate story.’
那是一张画册，乔检查了离她最近的艺术品，漫不经心地想，什么样的偶然情况需要这样一个戏剧性的插图：一个穿着全套战争服装的印第安人，被一只狼咬住了喉咙，从悬崖上翻滚，而两个愤怒的年轻人那些长着不自然的小脚、大眼睛的绅士们在近处互相刺伤，而背景中一名衣衫不整的女子则张着嘴飞走了。停下来翻页，小伙子看到她的目光，带着孩子般的善良，递出了半张纸，直截了当地说：“想看吗？”这是一个一流的故事。

Jo accepted it with a smile, for she had never outgrown her liking for lads, and soon found herself involved in the usual labyrinth of love, mystery, and murder, for the story belonged to that class of light literature in which the passions have a holiday, and when the author’s invention fails, a grand catastrophe clears the stage of one half the dramatis personae, leaving the other half to exult over their downfall.
乔微笑着接受了它，因为她对小伙子的喜爱从未停止过，很快她就发现自己陷入了爱情、神秘和谋杀的常见迷宫中，因为这个故事属于轻小说，其中的激情具有强烈的情感。假期里，当作者的发明失败时，一场巨大的灾难清除了一半戏剧人物的舞台，留下另一半为他们的垮台而欢欣鼓舞。

‘Prime, isn’t it?’ asked the boy, as her eye went down the last paragraph of her portion.
“Prime，不是吗？”男孩问道，同时她的目光落在了她那部分的最后一段上。

‘I think you and I could do as well as that if we tried,’ returned Jo, amused at his admiration of the trash.
“我想，如果我们努力的话，你和我也能做到这一点。”乔回答道，他对垃圾的钦佩感到好笑。

‘I should think I was a pretty lucky chap if I could. She makes a good living out of such stories, they say.’ And he pointed to the name of Mrs. S.L.A.N.G. Northbury, under the title of the tale.
“如果可以的话，我应该认为我是一个非常幸运的人。他们说，她靠这些故事过着很好的生活。”他指着 S.L.A.N.G 夫人的名字。诺斯伯里，故事的标题。

‘Do you know her?’ asked Jo, with sudden interest.
“你认识她吗？”乔突然感兴趣地问道。

‘No, but I read all her pieces, and I know a fellow who works in the office where this paper is printed.’ ‘Do you say she makes a good living out of stories like this?’ And Jo looked more respectfully at the agitated group and thickly sprinkled exclamation points that adorned the page.
“没有，但我读过她所有的文章，而且我认识一个在印刷这篇论文的办公室工作的人。”“你说她靠这样的故事过着很好的生活吗？”乔更加尊敬地看着她。激动的群体和密密麻麻的感叹号装饰着页面。

‘Guess she does! She knows just what folks like, and gets paid well for writing it.’
‘猜猜她是这样的！她知道人们喜欢什么，并且因为写它而获得了丰厚的报酬。

Here the lecture began, but Jo heard very little of it, for while Professor Sands was prosing away about Belzoni, Cheops, scarabei, and hieroglyphics, she was covertly taking down the address of the paper, and boldly resolving to try for the hundred-dollar prize offered in its columns for a sensational story. By the time the lecture ended and the audience awoke, she had built up a splendid fortune for herself (not the first founded on paper), and was already deep in the concoction of her story, being unable to decide whether the duel should come before the elopement or after the murder.
讲座从这里开始，但乔听得很少，因为当桑兹教授滔滔不绝地谈论贝尔佐尼、基奥普斯、斯卡贝和象形文字时，她正在偷偷地记下报纸的地址，并大胆地决定尝试一百——其专栏为耸人听闻的故事提供美元奖金。等到讲座结束，观众醒来时，她已经为自己积累了一笔巨额财富（这不是纸上的第一笔财富），并且已经陷入了自己故事的编造之中，无法决定是否应该在这场决斗之前进行。私奔或谋杀后。

she said nothing of her plan at home, but fell to work next day, much to the disquiet of her mother, who always looked a little anxious when ‘genius took to burning’. Jo had never tried this style before, contenting herself with very mild romances for THE SPREAD EAGLE. Her experience and miscellaneous reading were of service now, for they gave her some idea of dramatic effect, and supplied plot, language, and costumes. Her story was as full of desperation and despair as her limited acquaintance with those uncomfortable emotions enabled her to make it, and having located it in Lisbon, she wound up with an earthquake, as a striking and appropriate denouement. The manuscript was privately dispatched, accompanied by a note, modestly saying that if the tale didn’t get the prize, which the writer hardly dared expect, she would be very glad to receive any sum it might be considered worth.
她在家里没有提及自己的计划，但第二天就去上班了，这让她的母亲很不安，当“天才燃烧”时，她总是显得有点焦虑。乔以前从未尝试过这种风格，她满足于《展翅之鹰》中非常温和的浪漫。她的经验和各种阅读现在派上用场了，因为它们让她对戏剧效果有了一些了解，并提供了情节、语言和服装。她的故事充满了绝望和绝望，因为她对这些不舒服的情绪的有限了解使她能够做到这一点，而在里斯本找到它后，她以一场地震结束，作为一个引人注目且恰当的结局。手稿是私下寄出的，并附有一张便条，谦虚地说，如果这个故事没有获奖（这是作者不敢期望的），她会很高兴收到任何可能被认为值得的金额。

Six weeks is a long time to wait, and a still longer time for a girl to keep a secret, but Jo did both, and was just beginning to give up all hope of ever seeing her manuscript again, when a letter arrived which almost took her breath away, for on opening it, a check for a hundred dollars fell into her lap. For a minute she stared at it as if it had been a snake, then she read her letter and began to cry. If the amiable gentleman who wrote that kindly note could have known what intense happiness he was giving a fellow creature, I think he would devote his leisure hours, if he has any, to that amusement, for Jo valued the letter more than the money, because it was encouraging, and after years of effort it was so pleasant to find that she had learned to do something, though it was only to write a sensation story.
六个星期的等待时间很长，对于一个女孩来说保守秘密的时间更长，但乔做到了这两件事，并且刚刚开始放弃再次看到她的手稿的所有希望，这时一封信到达了，几乎花了她屏住了呼吸，因为打开它时，一张一百美元的支票掉到了她的腿上。她盯着它看了一会儿，就好像它是一条蛇一样，然后她读了信，开始哭泣。如果写那封善意的便条的那位和蔼可亲的绅士能够知道他给同胞带来了多么强烈的幸福，我想他会把他的闲暇时间（如果有的话）投入到这种娱乐中，因为乔更看重这封信而不是金钱，因为这是令人鼓舞的，经过多年的努力，她很高兴地发现自己学会了做一些事情，尽管这只是写一个轰动的故事。

A prouder young woman was seldom seen than she, when, having composed herself, she electrified the family by appearing before them with the letter in one hand, the check in the other, announcing that she had won the prize. Of course there was a great jubilee, and when the story came everyone read and praised it, though after her father had told her that the language was good, the romance fresh and hearty, and the tragedy quite thrilling, he shook his head, and said in his unworldly way...
很少有人能比她更骄傲的年轻女子，当她镇定下来后，一手拿着信，另一只手拿着支票出现在家人面前，宣布她赢得了奖项，这让全家人都兴奋不已。当然，有一个伟大的禧年，当故事到来时，每个人都读了它并称赞它，尽管她父亲告诉她语言很好，浪漫清新爽朗，悲剧相当惊心动魄，但他摇了摇头，用他超凡脱俗的方式说道……

‘You can do better than this, Jo. Aim at the highest, and never mind the money.’
“你可以做得更好，乔。瞄准最高目标，不要在意金钱。”

‘I think the money is the best part of it. What will you do with such a fortune?’ asked Amy, regarding the magic slip of paper with a reverential eye.
“我认为金钱是其中最好的部分。 “你会用这笔钱做什么？”艾米用虔诚的目光看着这张神奇的纸条问道。

‘Send Beth and Mother to the seaside for a month or two,’ answered Jo promptly.
“送贝丝和妈妈去海边一两个月吧。”乔立即回答。

To the seaside they went, after much discussion, and though Beth didn’t come home as plump and rosy as could be desired, she was much better, while Mrs. March declared she felt ten years younger. So Jo was satisfied with the investment of her prize money, and fell to work with a cheery spirit, bent on earning more of those delightful checks. She did earn several that year, and began to feel herself a power in the house, for by the magic of a pen, her ‘rubbish’ turned into comforts for them all. The Duke’s Daughter paid the butcher’s bill, A Phantom Hand put down a new carpet, and the Curse of the Coventrys proved the blessing of the Marches in the way of groceries and gowns.
经过多次讨论后，他们去了海边，虽然贝丝回家时没有达到预期的丰满和红润，但她好多了，而马奇夫人则声称她感觉年轻了十岁。因此，乔对奖金的投资感到满意，并以愉快的心情开始工作，决心赚取更多令人愉快的支票。那一年她确实赚了几笔钱，并开始感到自己在家里有权力，因为通过一支笔的魔力，她的“垃圾”变成了他们所有人的安慰。公爵的女儿支付了屠夫的账单，幽灵之手铺上了新地毯，考文垂家族的诅咒证明了边境地区在杂货和礼服方面的祝福。

Wealth is certainly a most desirable thing, but poverty has its sunny side, and one of the sweet uses of adversity is the genuine satisfaction which comes from hearty work of head or hand, and to the inspiration of necessity, we owe half the wise, beautiful, and useful blessings of the world. Jo enjoyed a taste of this satisfaction, and ceased to envy richer girls, taking great comfort in the knowledge that she could supply her own wants, and need ask no one for a penny.
财富当然是一件最令人向往的事情，但贫穷也有其阳光的一面，逆境的甜蜜用途之一是来自勤奋工作的真正满足，而出于必要性的启发，我们欠一半的聪明人，世界上美丽而有用的祝福。乔享受着这种满足的滋味，不再嫉妒有钱的女孩，因为她知道自己可以满足自己的需要，不需要向任何人要一分钱，这让她感到极大的安慰。

Little notice was taken of her stories, but they found a market, and encouraged by this fact, she resolved to make a bold stroke for fame and fortune. Having copied her novel for the fourth time, read it to all her confidential friends, and submitted it with fear and trembling to three publishers, she at last disposed of it, on condition that she would cut it down one third, and omit all the parts which she particularly admired.
她的故事很少受到关注，但它们找到了市场，并受到这一事实的鼓舞，她决心大胆一搏，名利双收。她第四次抄写了她的小说，读给她所有的密友听，又战战兢兢地把它交给了三个出版商，最后她把它处理掉了，条件是她要把它删掉三分之一，并删去所有的内容。她特别欣赏的部分。

‘Now I must either bundle it back in to my tin kitchen to mold, pay for printing it myself, or chop it up to suit purchasers and get what I can for it. Fame is a very good thing to have in the house, but cash is more convenient, so I wish to take the sense of the meeting on this important subject,’ said Jo, calling a family council.
“现在我必须要么把它捆回我的锡制厨房里模制，自己支付打印费用，要么把它切碎以适应购买者并尽我所能。在家里有名声是一件非常好的事情，但现金更方便，所以我希望能从这次关于这个重要主题的会议中得到启发。”乔在召开家庭理事会时说道。

‘Don’t spoil your book, my girl, for there is more in it than you know, and the idea is well worked out. Let it wait and ripen,’ was her father’s advice, and he practiced what he preached, having waited patiently thirty years for fruit of his own to ripen, and being in no haste to gather it even now when it was sweet and mellow.
“别毁了你的书，我的女孩，因为里面的内容比你知道的还要多，而且这个想法写得很好。让它等待成熟，”这是她父亲的建议，他也实践了自己的主张，耐心地等待了三十年自己的果实成熟，即使现在它又甜又醇，也不急于采摘它。

‘It seems to me that Jo will profit more by taking the trial than by waiting,’ said Mrs. March. ‘Criticism is the best test of such work, for it will show her both unsuspected merits and faults, and help her to do better next time. We are too partial, but the praise and blame of outsiders will prove useful, even if she gets but little money.’
“在我看来，乔接受审判比等待更能获益，”马奇夫人说。 “批评是对这样的工作最好的考验，因为它会让她看到意想不到的优点和缺点，并帮助她下次做得更好。”我们太偏心了，但外人的赞扬和批评还是有用的，即使她得到的钱很少。

‘Yes,’ said Jo, knitting her brows, ‘that’s just it. I’ve been fussing over the thing so long, I really don’t know whether it’s good, bad, or indifferent. It will be a great help to have cool, impartial persons take a look at it, and tell me what they think of it.’
“是的，”乔皱着眉头说，“就是这样。”我纠结了这么久，真不知道是好是坏，还是无所谓。让冷静、公正的人来看看它，并告诉我他们的想法，这将是一个很大的帮助。

‘I wouldn’t leave a word out of it. You’ll spoil it if you do, for the interest of the story is more in the minds than in the actions of the people, and it will be all a muddle if you don’t explain as you go on,’ said Meg, who firmly believed that this book was the most remarkable novel ever written.
“我不会留下任何一个字。如果你这样做了，你就会破坏它，因为故事的兴趣更多地在于人们的思想而不是人们的行动，如果你不继续解释，那么一切都会变得混乱，”梅格说，他坚信这本书是有史以来最出色的小说。

‘But Mr. Allen says, ‘Leave out the explanations, make it brief and dramatic, and let the characters tell the story’,’ interrupted Jo, turning to the publisher’s note.
“但是艾伦先生说，‘不要解释，让它简短而富有戏剧性，让人物讲述故事’，”乔打断道，转向出版商的说明。

‘Do as he tells you. He knows what will sale, and we don’t. Make a good, popular book, and get as much money as you can. By-and-by, when you’ve got a name, you can afford to digress, and have philosophical and metaphysical people in your novels,’ said Amy, who took a strictly practical view of the subject.
‘照他吩咐你的去做。他知道什么会畅销，而我们不知道。制作一本好书、受欢迎的书，并获得尽可能多的钱。渐渐地，当你有了名字，你就可以离题了，在你的小说中出现哲学和形而上学的人物，”艾米说，她对这个问题采取了严格的实用观点。

‘Well,’ said Jo, laughing, ‘if my people are ‘philosophical and metaphysical’, it isn’t my fault, for I know nothing about such things, except what I hear father say;, sometimes. If I’ve got some of his wise ideas jumbled up with my romance, so much the better for me. Now, Beth, what do you say?’
“好吧，”乔笑着说，“如果我的人民是‘哲学和形而上学的’，那不是我的错，因为我对这些事情一无所知，除了我有时听到父亲说的话。如果我把他的一些明智想法与我的浪漫混在一起，对我来说就更好了。现在，贝丝，你说什么？

‘I should so like to see it printed soon,’ was all Beth said, and smiled in saying it. But there was an unconscious emphasis on the last word, and a wistful look in the eyes that never lost their childlike candor, which chilled Jo’s heart for a minute with a forboding fear, and decided her to make her little venture ‘soon’.
“我真希望看到它尽快印刷出来。”贝丝只说了这句话，并微笑着说道。但最后一个词有一种无意识的强调，眼神中流露出渴望的神情，却从未失去孩子般的坦率，这让乔的心因一种不祥的恐惧而寒冷了一分钟，并决定“尽快”开始她的小冒险。

So, with Spartan firmness, the young authoress laid her first-born on her table, and chopped it up as ruthlessly as any ogre. In the hope of pleasing everyone, she took everyone’s advice, and like the old man and his donkey in the fable suited nobody.
于是，这位年轻的女作家以斯巴达式的坚定态度，把她的长子放在桌子上，像食人魔一样无情地把它砍碎。为了取悦所有人，她听取了所有人的建议，就像寓言中的老人和他的驴子一样，没有人适合。

Her father liked the metaphysical streak which had unconsciously got into it, so that was allowed to remain though she had her doubts about it. Her mother thought that there was a trifle too much description. Out, therefore it came, and with it many necessary links in the story. Meg admired the tragedy, so Jo piled up the agony to suit her, while Amy objected to the fun, and, with the best intentions in life, Jo quenched the spritly scenes which relieved the somber character of the story. Then, to complicate the ruin, she cut it down one third, and confidingly sent the poor little romance, like a picked robin, out into the big, busy world to try its fate.
她的父亲喜欢这种无意识地融入其中的形而上的倾向，所以尽管她对此有所怀疑，但还是允许这种倾向保留下来。她母亲认为描述有点太多了。出来了，所以它就来了，随之而来的是故事中许多必要的联系。梅格欣赏这场悲剧，所以乔堆积了适合她的痛苦，而艾米则反对这种乐趣，而出于人生最美好的愿望，乔消除了那些缓解故事阴郁性格的精神场景。然后，为了使废墟变得更加复杂，她把它砍掉了三分之一，并满怀信心地把可怜的小浪漫，像一只被选中的知更鸟，送到了广阔而繁忙的世界里，去尝试它的命运。

Well, it was printed, and she got three hundred dollars for it, likewise plenty of praise and blame, both so much greater than she expected that she was thrown into a state of bewilderment from which it took her some time to recover.
好吧，它被印出来了，她得到了三百美元，同样也有很多赞美和责备，都比她想象的要多得多，让她陷入了一种困惑的状态，花了一些时间才恢复过来。

‘You said, Mother, that criticism would help me. But how can it, when it’s so contradictory that I don’t know whether I’ve written a promising book or broken all the ten commandments?’ cried poor Jo, turning over a heap of notices, the perusal of which filled her with pride and joy one minute, wrath and dismay the next. ‘This man says, ‘An exquisite book, full of truth, beauty, and earnestness.
‘妈妈，你说过批评会对我有帮助。但是，当它如此矛盾时，我不知道我是否写了一本有前途的书或违反了所有十诫，这怎么可能呢？”可怜的乔喊道，翻阅了一堆通知，细读这些通知让她充满自豪前一分钟还欢乐，下一分钟就愤怒和沮丧。 ‘这个人说：‘一本精美的书，充满了真理、美丽和真诚。

All is sweet, pure, and healthy.’’ continued the perplexed authoress. ‘The next, ‘The theory of the book is bad, full of morbid fancies, spiritualistic ideas, and unnatural characters.’ Now, as I had no theory of any kind, don’t believe in Spiritualism, and copied my characters from life, I don’t see how this critic can be right. Another says, ‘It’s one of the best American novels which has appeared for years.’ (I know better than that), and the next asserts that ‘Though it is original, and written with great force and feeling, it is a dangerous book.’ ‘Tisn’t! Some make fun of it, some overpraise, and nearly all insist that I had a deep theory to expound, when I only wrote it for the pleasure and the money. I wish I’d printed the whole or not at all, for I do hate to be so misjudged.’
一切都是甜蜜、纯净、健康的。”困惑的女作家继续说道。 “接下来，‘这本书的理论很糟糕，充满了病态的幻想、招魂术的思想和不自然的人物。’现在，因为我没有任何理论，所以不相信招魂术，并从生活中复制我的人物，我不明白这个批评家怎么可能是对的。另一个人说，“这是多年来出现的最好的美国小说之一。”（我比这更清楚），下一个人断言，“尽管它是原创的，并且写得充满力量和感情，但它是一本危险的书” “不是！有些人取笑它，有些人过度赞扬，几乎所有人都坚持认为我有一个深刻的理论需要阐述，而我只是为了乐趣和金钱而写它。我希望我能完整地打印出来，或者根本不打印，因为我确实讨厌被如此错误地判断。

Her family and friends administered comfort and commendation liberally. Yet it was a hard time for sensitive, high-spirited Jo, who meant so well and had apparently done so ill. But it did her good, for those whose opinion had real value gave her the critism which is an author’s best education, and when the first soreness was over, she could laugh at her poor little book, yet believe in it still, and feel herself the wiser and stronger for the buffeting she had received.
她的家人和朋友慷慨地给予安慰和赞扬。然而，对于敏感、斗志旺盛的乔来说，这是一段艰难的时期，她本意很好，但显然做得很糟糕。但这对她有好处，因为那些真正有价值的观点给了她批评，这是作家最好的教育，当第一次痛苦结束时，她可以嘲笑她那本可怜的小书，但仍然相信它，并感受到自己她因受到的打击而变得更加明智和坚强。

‘Not being a genius, like Keats, it won’t kill me,’ she said stoutly, ‘and I’ve got the joke on my side, after all, for the parts that were taken straight out of real life are denounced as impossible and absurd, and the scenes that I made up out of my own silly head are pronounced ‘charmingly natural, tender, and true’. So I’ll comfort myself with that, and when I’m ready, I’ll up again and take another.’
“不是像济慈那样的天才，这不会杀了我，”她坚定地说，“毕竟，我有这个笑话，因为那些直接取自现实生活的部分被谴责为不可能、荒唐，而我用自己愚蠢的头脑编造的场景却被称为“迷人的自然、温柔和真实”。所以我会以此来安慰自己，当我准备好时，我会再次站起来并接受另一个。

CHAPTER TWENTY-EIGHT
第二十八章

Like most other young matrons, Meg began her married life with the determination to be a model housekeeper. John should find home a paradise, he should always see a smiling face, should fare sumptuously every day, and never know the loss of a button. She brought so much love, energy, and cheerfulness to the work that she could not but succeed, in spite of some obstacles. Her paradise was not a tranquil one, for the little woman fussed, was over-anxious to please, and bustled about like a true Martha, cumbered with many cares. She was too tired, sometimes, even to smile, John grew dyspeptic after a course of dainty dishes and ungratefully demanded plain fare. As for buttons, she soon learned to wonder where they went, to shake her head over the carelessness of men, and to threaten to make him sew them on himself, and see if his work would stand impatient and clumsy fingers any better than hers.
和大多数其他年轻主妇一样，梅格一开始就立志成为一名模范管家。约翰应该找到一个天堂般的家，他应该永远看到一张笑脸，应该每天吃得丰盛，永远不知道丢失了一颗纽扣。她给工作带来了如此多的爱、活力和快乐，尽管存在一些障碍，但她还是成功了。她的天堂并不平静，因为这个小女人烦躁不安，急于取悦，像真正的玛莎一样忙碌，被许多忧虑所困扰。有时她太累了，甚至连笑都笑不出来，约翰在吃了一道菜精美的菜肴后变得消化不良，并且忘恩负义地要求简单的食物。至于纽扣，她很快就学会了想知道它们去了哪里，对男人的粗心大意摇头，并威胁要让他把纽扣缝在自己身上，看看他的工作是否比她的更能忍受不耐烦和笨拙的手指。

They were very happy, even after they discovered that they couldn’t live on love alone. John did not find Meg’s beauty diminished, though she beamed at him from behind the familiar coffee pot. Nor did Meg miss any of the romance from the daily parting, when her husband followed up his kiss with the tender inquiry, ‘Shall I send some veal or mutton for dinner, darling?’ The little house ceased to be a glorified bower, but it became a home, and the young couple soon felt that it was a change for the better. At first they played keep-house, and frolicked over it like children. Then John took steadily to business, feeling the cares of the head of a family upon his shoulders, and Meg laid by her cambric wrappers, put on a big apron, and fell to work, as before said, with more energy than discretion.
他们非常幸福，即使他们发现自己不能仅靠爱情生活。约翰并没有发现梅格的美丽消失了，尽管她在熟悉的咖啡壶后面微笑着看着他。梅格也没有错过每天离别时的浪漫，当她的丈夫接吻后温柔地问道：“亲爱的，我可以送一些小牛肉或羊肉作为晚餐吗？”小房子不再是一个华丽的凉亭，而是它成了一个家，这对年轻夫妇很快就觉得这是一个更好的变化。起初他们玩看家的游戏，像孩子一样在上面嬉戏。然后约翰踏踏实实地开始做生意，感受到一家之主的忧虑落在了他的肩上，而梅格则放下她的麻布包裹物，系上大围裙，开始工作，正如之前所说，精力充沛，而不是谨慎。

While the cooking mania lasted she went through Mrs. Cornelius’s Receipt Book as if it were a mathematical exercise, working out the problems with patience and care. Sometimes her family were invited in to help eat up a too bounteous feast of successes, or Lotty would be privately dispatched with a batch of failures, which were to be concealed from all eyes in the convenient stomachs of the little Hummels. An evening with John over the account books usually produced a temporary lull in the culinary enthusiasm, and a frugal fit would ensue, during which the poor man was put through a course of bread pudding, hash, and warmed-over coffee, which tried his soul, although he bore it with praiseworthy fortitude. Before the golden mean was found, however, Meg added to her domestic possessions what young couples seldom get on long without, a family jar.
在对烹饪的狂热持续期间，她像做数学练习一样浏览科尼利厄斯夫人的收据簿，耐心而细心地解决问题。有时，她的家人会被邀请来帮忙吃一顿过于丰盛的成功盛宴，或者洛蒂会被私下派去一批失败的人，这些失败将被隐藏在小胡梅尔斯方便的胃里。晚上和约翰一起看帐本通常会暂时平息他对烹饪的热情，随之而来的是节俭的发作，在此期间，这个可怜的人被安排吃面包布丁、土豆泥和热咖啡，这考验了他的能力。灵魂，尽管他以值得称赞的毅力承受着它。然而，在找到中庸之道之前，梅格在她的家庭财产中添加了一个年轻夫妇很少能长期生活的东西，那就是一个家庭罐子。

Fired a with housewifely wish to see her storeroom stocked with homemade preserves, she undertook to put up her own currant jelly. John was requested to order home a dozen or so of little pots and an extra quantity of sugar, for their own currants were ripe and were to be attended to at once. As John firmly believed that ‘my wife’ was equal to anything, and took a natural pride in her skill, he resolved that she should be gratified, and their only crop of fruit laid by in a most pleasing form for winter use. Home came four dozen delightful little pots, half a barrel of sugar, and a small boy to pick the currants for her. With her pretty hair tucked into a little cap, arms bared to the elbow, and a checked apron which had a coquettish look in spite of the bib, the young housewife fell to work, feeling no doubts about her success, for hadn’t she seen Hannah do it hundreds of times? The array of pots rather amazed her at first, but John was so fond of jelly, and the nice little jars would look so well on the top shelf, that Meg resolved to fill them all, and spend a long day picking, boiling, straining, and fussing over her jelly. She did her best, she asked advice of Mrs. Cornelius, she racked her brain to remember what Hannah did that she left undone, she reboiled, resugared, and restrained, but that dreadful stuff wouldn’t ‘jell’.
出于家庭主妇希望看到她的储藏室里堆满了自制蜜饯的愿望，她决定制作自己的醋栗果冻。约翰被要求带回家十几个小罐子和额外的糖，因为他们自己的葡萄干已经成熟了，需要立即处理。由于约翰坚信“我的妻子”无所不能，并对她的技艺感到自然的自豪，他决定让她感到满意，并以最令人愉悦的形式将他们唯一的果实留作冬季使用。她回来了四打可爱的小罐子、半桶糖，还有一个小男孩为她摘葡萄干。年轻的家庭主妇把漂亮的头发塞进小帽子里，双臂裸露到肘部，围着格子围裙，尽管戴着围脖，但仍显得风骚，年轻的家庭主妇开始工作，对自己的成功毫不怀疑，因为她不是见过汉娜这样做数百次吗？一开始，一排排的罐子让她相当惊讶，但约翰非常喜欢果冻，而且漂亮的小罐子放在最上面的架子上看起来很漂亮，梅格决定把它们全部装满，并花了一整天的时间采摘、煮沸、过滤。 ，并对她的果冻大惊小怪。她竭尽全力，向科尼利厄斯太太寻求建议，她绞尽脑汁地回忆汉娜做了哪些她没做的事，她重新沸腾，重新镇定，克制，但那些可怕的事情不会“结冰”。

She longed to run home, bib and all, and ask Mother to lend her a hand, but John and she had agreed that they would never annoy anyone with their private worries, experiments, or quarrels. They had laughed over that last word as if the idea it suggested was a most preposterous one, but they had held to their resolve, and whenever they could get on without help they did so, and no one interfered, for Mrs. March had advised the plan. So Meg wrestled alone with the refractory sweetmeats all that hot summer day, and at five o’clock sat down in her topsy-turvey kitchen, wrung her bedaubed hands, lifted up her voice and wept.
她渴望穿着围脖跑回家，请求母亲帮她一把，但约翰和她同意，他们永远不会用自己的私人忧虑、实验或争吵来惹恼任何人。他们对最后一句话大笑起来，好像它所暗示的想法是一个最荒谬的想法，但他们坚持了自己的决心，只要他们能够在没有帮助的情况下继续前进，他们就会这样做，没有人干涉，因为马奇夫人建议计划。于是，整个炎热的夏日，梅格独自一人与难吃的甜食搏斗，五点钟时，她坐在乱七八糟的厨房里，绞着涂满油污的双手，提高嗓门哭了起来。

Now, in the first flush of the new life, she had often said, ‘My husband shall always feel free to bring a friend home whenever he likes. I shall always be prepared. There shall be no flurry, no scolding, no discomfort, but a neat house, a cheerful wife, and a good dinner. John, dear, never stop to ask my leave, invite whom you please, and be sure of a welcome from me.’
现在，在新生活的最初阶段，她经常说：“我的丈夫随时可以随时带朋友回家。”我会时刻做好准备。不会有慌乱、没有责骂、没有不适，只有整洁的房子、开朗的妻子和丰盛的晚餐。约翰，亲爱的，永远不要停下来请我离开，邀请你想邀请的人，一定会受到我的欢迎。

How charming that was, to be sure! John quite glowed with pride to hear her say it, and felt what a blessed thing it was to have a superior wife. But, although they had had company from time to time, it never happened to be unexpected, and Meg had never had an opportunity to distinguish herself till now. It always happens so in this vale of tears, there is an inevitability about such things which we can only wonder at, deplore, and bear as we best can.
确实，那是多么迷人啊！约翰听到她这么说，顿时得意洋洋，觉得有一个优秀的妻子是多么幸福的事情。不过，虽然他们时不时有同伴，但从来没有发生过意外，而梅格直到现在也没有机会表现自己。在这个泪水深谷里，这种事总是会发生，这种事情是不可避免的，我们只能对此感到惊奇、哀叹和尽我们最大的努力去承受。

If John had not forgotten all about the jelly, it really would have been unpardonable in him to choose that day, of all the days in the year, to bring a friend home to dinner unexpectedly. Congratulating himself that a handsome repast had been ordered that morning, feeling sure that it would be ready to the minute, and indulging in pleasant anticipations of the charming effect it would produce, when his pretty wife came running out to meet him, he escorted his friend to his mansion, with the irrepressible satisfaction of a young host and husband.
如果约翰没有完全忘记果冻的事情，他在一年中的所有日子里选择这一天，意外地带朋友回家吃饭，实在是不可原谅的。那天早上，他为自己订了一顿丰盛的饭菜而感到庆幸，确信它会立即准备好，并沉浸在对它会产生的迷人效果的愉快期待中，当他漂亮的妻子跑出来迎接他时，他护送着他的妻子。一位年轻的主人和丈夫带着无法抑制的满足感来到了他的豪宅。

It is a world of disappointments, as John discovered when he reached the Dovecote. the front door usually stood hospitably open. Now it was not only shut, but locked, and yesterday’s mud still adorned the steps. The parlor windows were closed and curtained, no picture of the pretty wife sewing on the piazza, in white, with a distracting little bow in her hair, or a bright-eyed hostess, smiling a shy welcome as she greeted her guest. Nothing of the sort, for not a soul appeared but a sanginary-looking boy asleep under the current bushes.
正如约翰到达鸽舍时所发现的那样，这是一个充满失望的世界。前门通常热情地敞开着。现在它不仅关着，而且锁着，台阶上还沾着昨天的泥土。客厅的窗户关着，拉着窗帘，看不到广场上漂亮妻子缝纫的照片，她穿着白色衣服，头发上系着一个令人分心的小蝴蝶结，也看不到一位眼睛明亮的女主人，在迎接客人时害羞地微笑着。事实并非如此，因为除了一个看起来血气方刚的男孩睡在当前的灌木丛下外，没有一个人出现。

‘I’m afraid something has happened. Step into the garden, Scott, while I look up Mrs. Brooke,’ said John, alarmed at the silence and solitude.
‘恐怕发生了什么事。走进花园吧，斯科特，我去看看布鲁克太太。”约翰对这里的寂静和孤独感到震惊，说道。

Round the house he hurried, led by a pungent smell of burned sugar, and Mr. Scott strolled after him, with a queer look on his face. He paused discreetly at a distance when Brooke disappeared, but he could both see and hear, and being a bachelor, enjoyed the prospect mightily.
他在一股刺鼻的烧焦糖味的引导下，匆匆绕着房子转了一圈，斯科特先生在他后面漫步，脸上带着一种奇怪的表情。当布鲁克消失时，他在远处谨慎地停了下来，但他既能看到又能听到，而且作为一个单身汉，他非常享受这一前景。

In the kitchen reigned confusion and despair. One edition of jelly was trickled from pot to pot, another lay upon the floor, and a third was burning gaily on the stove. Lotty, with Teutonic phlegm, was calmly eating bread and currant wine, for the jelly was still in a hopelessly liquid state, while Mrs. Brooke, with her apron over her head, sat sobbing dismally.
厨房里充满了混乱和绝望。一份果冻从一个罐子滴到另一个罐子，另一份散落在地板上，第三份在炉子上欢快地燃烧。洛蒂带着条顿痰，平静地吃着面包和醋栗酒，因为果冻还处于无可救药的液态，而布鲁克太太则用围裙罩在头上，坐在那儿伤心地哭泣。

‘My dearest girl, what is the matter?’ cried John, rushing in, with awful visions of scalded hands, sudden news of affliction, and secret consternation at the thought of the guest in the garden.
“我最亲爱的女孩，出了什么事？”约翰冲了进来，他的脑海里浮现出双手被烫伤的可怕景象，突然传来的痛苦消息，想到花园里的客人，心里暗自惊愕。

‘Oh, John, I am so tired and hot and cross and worried! I’ve been at it till I’m all worn out. Do come and help me or I shall die!’ And the exhausted housewife cast herself upon his breast, giving him a sweet welcome in every sense of the word, for her pinafore had been baptized at the same time as the floor.
“哦，约翰，我好累、好热、好生气、好担心！我一直这样做，直到我精疲力竭。请过来帮助我，否则我就死了！”疲惫的主妇伏在他的胸前，从各个方面给予他甜蜜的欢迎，因为她的围裙和地板同时接受了洗礼。

‘What worries you dear? Has anything dreadful happened?’ asked the anxious John, tenderly kissing the crown of the little cap, which was all askew.
‘亲爱的你担心什么？有什么可怕的事情发生吗？”焦急的约翰问道，他温柔地亲吻着那顶歪歪扭扭的小帽子的帽冠。

‘Yes,’ sobbed Meg despairingly.
“是的，”梅格绝望地抽泣着。

‘Tell me quick, then. Don’t cry. I can bear anything better than that. Out with it, love.’
‘那快点告诉我吧。别哭。比这更好的事情我都能忍受。出去吧，亲爱的。

‘The...The jelly won’t jell and I don’t know what to do!’
“……果冻不结冻，我不知道该怎么办！”

John Brooke laughed then as he never dared to laugh afterward, and the derisive Scott smiled involuntarily as he heard the hearty peal, which put the finishing stroke to poor Meg’s woe.
约翰·布鲁克当时笑了，因为后来他再也不敢笑了，嘲笑的斯科特在听到那酣畅淋漓的钟声时不由自主地笑了，这给可怜的梅格的悲惨画上了最后的句号。

‘Is that all? Fling it out of the window, and don’t bother any more about it. I’ll buy you quarts if you want it, but for heaven’s sake don’t have hysterics, for I’ve brought Jack Scott home to dinner, and...’
'这就是全部？把它扔出窗外，别再理会它了。如果你想要的话，我可以给你买夸脱，但看在老天爷的份上，别歇斯底里，因为我已经带杰克·斯科特回家吃晚饭了，而且……”

John got no further, for Meg cast him off, and clasped her hands with a tragic gesture as she fell into a chair, exclaiming in a tone of mingled indignation, reproach, and dismay...
约翰没有再说下去，因为梅格甩开了他，当她跌倒在椅子上时，她以悲惨的姿势紧握双手，用一种夹杂着愤怒、责备和沮丧的语气喊道……

‘A man to dinner, and everything in a mess! John Brooke, how could you do such a thing?’
‘一个人去吃饭，一切都乱七八糟！约翰·布鲁克，你怎么能做出这样的事？

‘Hush, he’s in the garden! I forgot the confounded jelly, but it can’t be helped now,’ said John, surveying the prospect with an anxious eye.
“嘘，他在花园里！”我忘记了那个混乱的果冻，但现在已经没办法了。”约翰说道，用焦急的目光打量着眼前的景象。

‘You ought to have sent word, or told me this morning, and you ought to have remembered how busy I was,’ continued Meg petulantly, for even turtledoves will peck when ruffled.
“今天早上你应该发消息给我，或者告诉我，你应该记得我有多忙，”梅格脾气暴躁地继续说道，因为即使是斑鸠在受到惊扰时也会啄食。

‘I didn’t know it this morning, and there was no time to send word, for I met him on the way out. I never thought of asking leave, when you have always told me to do as I liked. I never tried it before, and hang me if I ever do again!’ added John, with an aggrieved air.
“今天早上我不知道，也没有时间传话，因为我在出去的路上遇见了他。当你总是让我做我喜欢做的事时，我从来没有想过请假。我以前从来没有尝试过，如果我再尝试的话，就把我吊死！”约翰一脸委屈地补充道。

‘I should hope not! Take him away at once. I can’t see him, and there isn’t any dinner.’
“我希望不会！”赶紧把他带走。我看不到他，也没有晚饭。”

‘Well, I like that! Where’s the beef and vegetables I sent home, and the pudding you promised?’ cried John, rushing to the larder. ‘I hadn’t time to cook anything. I meant to dine at Mother’s. I’m sorry, but I was so busy,’ and Meg’s tears began again.
‘嗯，我喜欢这样！我寄回家的牛肉和蔬菜，还有你答应的布丁呢？”约翰冲向食品储藏室喊道。 “我没有时间做任何东西。我本来想去妈妈家吃饭。对不起，我太忙了。”梅格又流下了眼泪。

John was a mild man, but he was human, and after a long day’s work to come home tired, hungry, and hopeful, to find a chaotic house, an empty table, and a cross wife was not exactly conductive to repose of mind or manner. He restrained himself however, and the little squall would have blown over, but for one unlucky word.
约翰是个温和的人，但他也是人，经过一整天的工作回到家，又累又饿，又满怀希望，发现一间混乱的房子，一张空桌子，还有一个脾气暴躁的妻子，这并不完全有利于心灵的休息，也没有什么好处。方式。不过他还是克制住了自己，要不是一句不吉利的话，这场小暴风雨早就平息了。

‘It’s a scrape, I acknowledge, but if you will lend a hand, we’ll pull through and have a good time yet. Don’t cry, dear, but just exert yourself a bit, and fix us up something to eat. We’re both as hungry as hunters, so we shan’t mind what it is. Give us the cold meat, and bread and cheese. We won’t ask for jelly.’
“我承认，这确实很困难，但如果你愿意伸出援手，我们就能渡过难关，享受美好时光。”亲爱的，别哭，努力一点，给我们准备点吃的。我们都像猎人一样饥饿，所以我们不会介意它是什么。给我们冷肉、面包和奶酪。我们不会要果冻。

He meant it to be a good-natured joke, but that one word sealed his fate. Meg thought it was too cruel to hint about her sad failure, and the last atom of patience vanished as he spoke.
他本想开个善意的玩笑，但这一句话却决定了他的命运。梅格觉得暗示她的悲惨失败太残酷了，当他说话时，最后一点耐心也消失了。

‘You must get yourself out of the scrape as you can. I’m too used up to ‘exert’ myself for anyone. It’s like a man to propose a bone and vulgar bread and cheese for company. I won’t have anything of the sort in my house. Take that Scott up to Mother’s, and tell him I’m away, sick, dead, anything. I won’t see him, and you two can laugh at me and my jelly as much as you like. You won’t have anything else here.’ And having delivered her defiance all on one breath, Meg cast away her pinafore and precipitately left the field to bemoan herself in her own room.
‘你必须尽你所能让自己摆脱困境。我已经习惯了为任何人“努力”自己。这就像一个男人提议吃骨头粗俗的面包和奶酪来陪伴一样。我家里不会有这样的东西。带斯科特去母亲家，告诉他我走了，生病了，死了，什么的。我不会见到他，你们两个可以尽情地嘲笑我和我的果冻。梅格一口气表达了她的蔑视，然后扔掉了她的围裙，匆匆离开了球场，在自己的房间里哀叹自己。

What those two creatures did in her absence, she never knew, but Mr. scott was not taken ‘up to Mother’s’, and when Meg descended, after they had strolled away together, she found traces of a promiscuous lunch which filled her with horror. Lotty reported that they had eaten ‘a much, and greatly laughed, and the master bid her throw away all the sweet stuff, and hide the pots.’
她不知道这两个生物在她不在的时候做了什么，但斯科特先生并没有被带到“母亲那里”，当梅格下来时，他们一起漫步离开后，她发现了一顿乱七八糟的午餐的痕迹，这让她充满了恐惧。洛蒂报告说，他们“吃了很多，笑得很开心，主人吩咐她扔掉所有甜食，把罐子藏起来。”

Meg longed to go and tell Mother, but a sense of shame at her own short comings, of loyalty to John, ‘who might be cruel, but nobody should know it,’ restrained her, and after a summary cleaning up, she dressed herself prettily, and sat down to wait for John to come and be forgiven.
梅格很想去告诉母亲，但对自己的缺点感到羞耻，对约翰“可能很残忍，但没人应该知道”的忠诚感限制了她，在简单清理后，她穿好衣服。漂亮地坐下来等待约翰的到来并获得原谅。

Unfortunately, John didn’t come, not seeing the matter in that light. He had carried it off as a good joke with Scott, excused his little wife as well as he could, and played the host so hospitably that his friend enjoyed the impromptu dinner, and promised to come again, but John was angry, though he did not show it, he felt that Meg had deserted him in his hour of need. ‘It wasn’t fair to tell a man to bring folks home any time, with perfect freedom, and when he took you at your word, to flame up and blame him, and leave him in the lurch, to be laughed at or pitied. No, by George, it wasn’t! And Meg must know it.’
不幸的是，约翰没有来，他没有从这个角度看待这件事。他把这当作是和斯科特开的一个好玩笑，尽可能地原谅了他的小妻子，并表现得非常热情好客，让他的朋友享受了即兴的晚餐，并答应再来，但约翰很生气，尽管他确实这么做了。尽管没有表现出来，他还是觉得梅格在他需要帮助的时候抛弃了他。 “告诉一个人随时带人回家，完全自由，当他相信你的话时，你就发怒并责怪他，让他陷入困境，让他被嘲笑或怜悯，这是不公平的。” 。不，乔治，不是的！梅格一定知道这一点。

He had fumed inwardly during the feast, but when the flurry was over and he strolled home after seeing Scott off, a milder mood came over him. ‘Poor little thing! It was hard upon her when she tried so heartily to please me. She was wrong, of course, but then she was young. I must be patient and teach her.’ He hoped she had not gone home—he hated gossip and interference. For a minute he was ruffled again at the mere thought of it, and then the fear that Meg would cry herself sick softened his heart, and sent him on at a quicker pace, resolving to be calm and kind, but firm, quite firm, and show her where she had failed in her duty to her spouse.
宴会期间，他心里一直在发怒，但当混乱结束，送别斯科特后，他漫步回家时，他的心情变得温和起来。 '可怜的小东西！当她如此全心全意地试图取悦我时，她感到很难过。当然，她错了，但那时她还年轻。我必须耐心地教她。”他希望她没有回家——他讨厌流言蜚语和干扰。一想到这，他就又心烦意乱，然后担心梅格会哭得恶心，软化了他的心，让他加快了步伐，决心保持冷静和友善，但坚定，非常坚定，并向她表明她在哪些方面未能履行对配偶的职责。

Meg likewise resolved to be ‘calm and kind, but firm’, and show him his duty. She longed to run to meet him, and beg pardon, and be kissed and comforted, as she was sure of being, but, of course, she did nothing of the sort, and when she saw John coming, began to hum quite naturally, as she rocked and sewed, like a lady of leisure in her best parlor.
梅格同样决心要“冷静、友善，但坚定”，并向他表明自己的职责。她渴望跑去迎接他，请求原谅，得到亲吻和安慰，正如她确信的那样，但是，当然，她没有做任何那样的事情，当她看到约翰到来时，开始很自然地哼唱，当她摇晃着缝纫时，就像一位在她最好的客厅里悠闲的女士。

John was a little disappointed not to find a tender Niobe, but feeling that his dignity demanded the first apology, he made none, only came leisurely in and laid himself upon the sofa with the singularly relevant remark, ‘We are going to have a new moon, my dear.’
约翰对没有找到温柔的尼俄伯感到有点失望，但他觉得自己的尊严需要首先道歉，所以他没有道歉，只是悠闲地走进来，躺在沙发上，说了一句特别相关的话：“我们将有一个新的道歉。”月亮，亲爱的。

‘I’ve no objection,’ was Meg’s equally soothing remark. A few other topics of general interest were introduced by Mr. Brooke and wet-blanketed by Mrs. Brooke, and conversation languished. John went to one window, unfolded his paper, and wrapped himself in it, figuratively speaking. Meg went to the other window, and sewed as if new rosettes for slippers were among the necessaries of life. Neither spoke. Both looked quite ‘calm and firm’, and both felt desperately uncomfortable.
“我不反对，”梅格同样安慰道。布鲁克先生介绍了其他一些大家普遍感兴趣的话题，布鲁克夫人则掩盖了这一点，谈话就陷入了停滞。约翰走到一扇窗户前，展开他的报纸，用比喻的方式将自己裹在里面。梅格走到另一扇窗户前，缝制着拖鞋，仿佛拖鞋的新玫瑰花结是生活的必需品。两人都没说话。两人看上去都十分‘冷静而坚定’，两人都感到非常不舒服。

‘Oh, dear,’ thought Meg, ‘married life is very trying, and does need infinite patience as well as love, as Mother says.’ The word ‘Mother’ suggested other maternal counsels given long ago, and received with unbelieving protests.
“哦，亲爱的，”梅格心想，“婚姻生活非常艰难，确实需要无限的耐心和爱，正如母亲所说。”“母亲”这个词暗示了很久以前给出的其他母亲忠告，但遭到了令人难以置信的抗议。

‘John is a good man, but he has his faults, and you must learn to see and bear with them, remembering your own. He is very decided, but never will be obstinate, if you reason kindly, not oppose impatiently. He is very accurate, and particular about the truth—a good trait, though you call him ‘fussy’. Never deceive him by look or word, Meg, and he will give you the confidence you deserve, the support you need. He has a temper, not like ours—one flash and then all over—but the white, still anger that is seldom stirred, but once kindled is hard to quench. Be careful, be very careful, not to wake his anger against yourself, for peace and happiness depend on keeping his respect. Watch yourself, be the first to ask pardon if you both err, and guard against the little piques, misunderstandings, and hasty words that often pave the way for bitter sorrow and regret.’
“约翰是个好人，但他也有缺点，你必须学会​​看到并忍受这些缺点，记住你自己的缺点。他很坚决，但绝不会固执，只要你善意地推理，而不是不耐烦地反对。他非常准确，而且注重事实——这是一个好品质，尽管你称他为“挑剔”。梅格，永远不要用外表或言语欺骗他，他会给你应得的信心和你需要的支持。他有脾气，不像我们的脾气——一闪而过——但是白色的、静止的愤怒很少被激起，但一旦点燃就很难熄灭。小心，非常小心，不要激起他对自己的愤怒，因为和平与幸福取决于保持他的尊重。小心自己，如果你们都犯了错，要第一个请求原谅，并提防小脾气、误解和仓促的言语，这些往往会为痛苦和遗憾铺平道路。

These words came back to Meg, as she sat sewing in the sunset, especially the last. This was the first serious disagreement, her own hasty speeches sounded both silly and unkind, as she recalled them, her own anger looked childish now, and thoughts of poor John coming home to such a scene quite melted her heart. She glanced at him with tears in her eyes, but he did not see them. She put down her work and got up, thinking, ‘I will be the first to say, ‘Forgive me’, but he did not seem to hear her. She went very slowly across the room, for pride was hard to swallow, and stood by him, but he did not turn his head. For a minute she felt as if she really couldn’t do it, then came the thought, This is the beginning. I’ll do my part, and have nothing to reproach myself with,’ and stooping sown, she softly kissed her husband on the forehead. Of course that settled it. The penitent kiss was better than a world of words, and John had her on his knee in a minute, saying tenderly...
当梅格坐在夕阳下做针线活时，她又想起了这些话，尤其是最后那句话。这是第一次严重的分歧，她自己的仓促言论听起来既愚蠢又不友善，据她回忆，她自己的愤怒现在看起来很幼稚，一想到可怜的约翰回家看到这样的场景，她的心就融化了。她含着泪水看着他，但他没有看到。她放下手中的工作，站起身来，心想：“我会第一个说‘原谅我’，但他似乎没有听到她的声音。”她非常缓慢地穿过房间，因为骄傲难以下咽，她站在他身边，但他没有转过头。有那么一瞬间，她觉得自己真的做不到，然后她想到，这就是开始。我会尽自己的一份力量，没有什么可责备自己的。”她弯下腰，轻轻地吻了一下丈夫的额头。当然就这样解决了。这个悔罪之吻胜过千言万语，约翰立刻将她抱在膝盖上，温柔地说……

‘It was too bad to laugh at the poor little jelly pots. Forgive me, dear. I never will again!’
“嘲笑那些可怜的小果冻罐真是太糟糕了。原谅我，亲爱的。我再也不会了！

But he did, oh bless you, yes, hundreds of times, and so did Meg, both declaring that it was the sweetest jelly they ever made, for family peace was preserved in that little family jar.
但他确实这么做了，哦，保佑你，是的，数百次，梅格也这么做了，两人都宣称这是他们做过的最甜的果冻，因为那个小罐子里保留了家庭的和平。

After this, Meg had Mr. Scott to dinner by special invitation, and served him up a pleasant feast without a cooked wife for the first course, on which occasion she was so gay and gracious, and made everything go off so charmingly, that Mr. Scott told John he was a lucky fellow, and shook his head over the hardships of bachelorhood all the way home.
此后，梅格特别邀请斯科特先生共进晚餐，并为他提供了一顿愉快的盛宴，第一道菜没有煮熟的妻子，当时她是如此快乐和亲切，让一切都如此迷人，以至于先生斯科特告诉约翰他是一个幸运的人，并在回家的路上对单身生活的艰辛摇摇头。

In the autumn, new trials and experiences came to Meg. Sallie Moffat renewed her friendship, was always running out for a dish of gossip at the little house, or inviting ‘that poor dear’ to come in and spend the day at the big house. It was pleasant, for in dull weather Meg often felt lonely. All were busy at home, John absent till night, and nothing to do but sew, or read, or potter about. So it naturally fell out that Meg got into the way of gadding and gossiping with her friend. Seeing Sallie’s pretty things made her long for such, and pity herself because she had not got them. Sallie was very kind, and often offered her the coveted trifles, but Meg declined them, knowing that John wouldn’t like it, and then this foolish little woman went and did what John disliked even worse.
秋天，梅格迎来了新的考验和经历。萨莉·莫法特重拾了友谊，总是跑去小房子里聊八卦，或者邀请“那个可怜的亲爱的”来大房子里度过一天。这很令人愉快，因为在阴沉的天气里，梅格常常感到孤独。家里所有人都很忙，约翰一直缺席到晚上，除了缝纫、读书或陶艺之外，无事可做。因此，梅格很自然地陷入了与她的朋友闲聊和闲聊的状态。看到莎莉漂亮的东西，她很向往，又可怜自己，因为她没有得到它们。萨莉非常友善，经常给她送一些令人垂涎的小东西，但梅格拒绝了，因为她知道约翰不会喜欢，然后这个愚蠢的小女人又做了约翰更不喜欢的事情。

She knew her husband’s income, and she loved to feel that he trusted her, not only with his happiness, but what some men seem to value more—his money. She knew where it was, was free to take what she liked, and all he asked was that she should keep account of every penny, pay bills once a month, and remember that she was a poor man’s wife. Till now she had done well, been prudent and exact, kept her little account books neatly, and showed them to him monthly without fear. But that autumn the serpent got into Meg’s paradise, and tempted her like many a modern Eve, not with apples, but with dress. Meg didn’t like to be pitied and made to feel poor. It irritated her, but she was ashamed to confess it, and now and then she tried to console herself by buying something pretty, so that Sallie needn’t think she had to economize. She always felt wicked after it, for the pretty things were seldom necessaries, but then they cost so little, it wasn’t worth worrying about, so the trifles increased unconsciously, and in the shopping excursions she was no longer a passive looker-on.
她知道丈夫的收入，她喜欢感觉到他信任她，不仅信任她的幸福，还信任一些男人似乎更看重的东西——他的钱。她知道它在哪里，可以随意拿走她喜欢的东西，而他只要求她记好每一分钱，每月支付一次账单，并记住她是一个穷人的妻子。到目前为止，她做得很好，谨慎而准确，把小账本保存得整整齐齐，每个月都毫无畏惧地给他看。但那年秋天，蛇进入了梅格的天堂，像许多现代夏娃一样诱惑她，不是用苹果，而是用衣服。梅格不喜欢被人怜悯，不喜欢被人感到可怜。这让她很恼火，但她又羞于承认这一点，她时不时地试图通过买一些漂亮的东西来安慰自己，这样萨莉就不必认为她必须节省开支。事后她总是觉得自己很邪恶，因为漂亮的东西很少是必需品，但价格又那么便宜，不值得操心，于是小事就不知不觉地增多了，逛街的时候她不再是一个被动的旁观者。 。

But the trifles cost more than one would imagine, and when she cast up her accounts at the end of the month the sum total rather scared her. John was busy that month and left the bills to her, the next month he was absent, but the third he had a grand quarterly settling up, and Meg never forgot it. A few days before she had done a dreadful thing, and it weighed upon her conscience. Sallie had been buying silks, and Meg longed for a new one, just a handsome light one for parties, her black silk was so common, and thin things for evening wear were only proper for girls. Aunt March usually gave the sisters a present of twenty-five dollars apiece at New Year’s. That was only a month to wait, and here was a lovely violet silk going at a bargain, and she had the money, if she only dared to take it. John always said what was his was hers, but would he think it right to spend not only the prospective five-and-twenty, but another five-and-twenty out of the household fund? That was the question. Sallie had urged her to do it, had offered to lend the money, and with the best intentions in life had tempted Meg beyond her strength. In an evil moment the shopman held up the lovely, shimmering folds, and said, ‘A bargain, I assure, you, ma’am.’ She answered, ‘I’ll take it,’ and it was cut off and paid for, and Sallie had exulted, and she had laughed as if it were a thing of no consequence, and driven away, feeling as if she had stolen something, and the police were after her.
但这些小事的花费超出了人们的想象，当她在月底算账时，总数让她相当害怕。约翰那个月很忙，把账单留给了她，下个月他缺席了，但第三个月他有一个盛大的季度结算，梅格永远不会忘记。几天前，她做了一件可怕的事情，这让她的良心感到沉重。莎莉一直在买丝绸，梅格渴望一件新的，只要是聚会时穿的一件帅气的浅色，她的黑丝绸很常见，薄薄的晚装只适合女孩子穿。马奇婶婶通常在新年时送给姐妹俩每人二十五美元的礼物。等待的时间只有一个月，一件漂亮的紫罗兰色丝绸正在打折，只要她敢买，她就有钱。约翰总是说他的就是她的，但他认为不仅花掉预期的五又二十，而且还从家庭基金中花掉另外的五又二十，这是正确的吗？这就是问题所在。莎莉催促她这么做，主动提出借钱，并怀着最美好的愿望诱惑了梅格，但她的能力超出了她的承受范围。在一个邪恶的时刻，店主举起了可爱的、闪闪发光的褶皱，说：“我向你保证，这是一笔便宜货，女士。”她回答说：“我要买它。”然后它就被剪下来并付了钱。萨莉欣喜若狂，笑得好像这无关紧要，然后开车离开，感觉好像她偷了东西，警察在追她。

When she got home, she tried to assuage the pangs of remorse by spreading forth the lovely silk, but it looked less silvery now, didn’t become her, after all, and the words ‘fifty dollars’ seemed stamped like a pattern down each breadth. She put it away, but it haunted her, not delightfully as a new dress should, but dreadfully like the ghost of a folly that was not easily laid. When John got out his books that night, Meg’s heart sank, and for the first time in her married life, she was afraid of her husband. The kind, brown eyes looked as if they could be stern, and though he was unusually merry, she fancied he had found her out, but didn’t mean to let her know it. The house bills were all paid, the books all in order. John had praised her, and was undoing the old pocketbook which they called the ‘bank’, when Meg, knowing that it was quite empty, stopped his hand, saying nervously...
当她回到家时，她试图通过展开可爱的丝绸来减轻悔恨的痛苦，但它现在看起来不那么银色了，毕竟不适合她，而且“五十美元”这个词似乎像图案一样印在每张纸上。宽度。她把它收了起来，但它却一直困扰着她，不像一件新衣服那样令人愉快，而是可怕地像一个不容易放下的愚蠢的幽灵。那天晚上，当约翰拿出书时，梅格的心沉了下去，在她的婚姻生活中，她第一次害怕她的丈夫。那双和善的棕色眼睛看起来似乎很严厉，虽然他异常快乐，但她觉得他已经发现了她，但并不想让她知道。房子的账单都付清了，书本也都整理好了。约翰称赞了她，然后正在打开他们称之为“银行”的旧钱包，这时梅格知道里面已经空了，停下了他的手，紧张地说……

‘You haven’t seen my private expense book yet.’
“你还没看过我的私人开支簿。”

John never asked to see it, but she always insisted on his doing so, and used to enjoy his masculine amazement at the queer things women wanted, and made him guess what piping was, demand fiercely the meaning of a hug-me-tight, or wonder how a little thing composed of three rosebuds, a bit of velvet, and a pair of strings, could possibly be a bonnet, and cost six dollars. That night he looked as if he would like the fun of quizzing her figures and pretending to be horrified at her extravagance, as he often did, being particularly proud of his prudent wife.
约翰从来没有要求看它，但她总是坚持让他这样做，并常常享受他对女人想要的奇怪事物的男性惊讶，并让他猜测管道是什么，强烈要求拥抱我的含义，或者想知道一个由三朵玫瑰花蕾、一点天鹅绒和一对绳子组成的小东西怎么可能是一顶帽子，而且要花费六美元。那天晚上，他看起来好像很喜欢询问她的身材，假装对她的奢侈感到震惊，就像他经常做的那样，对他谨慎的妻子感到特别自豪。

The little book was brought slowly out and laid down before him. Meg got behind his chair under pretense of smoothing the wrinkles out of his tired forehead, and standing there, she said, with her panic increasing with every word . ..
那本小书被慢慢地拿出来，放在他面前。梅格假装要抚平疲惫额头上的皱纹，走到椅子后面，站在那儿，她说，每说一个字，她的惊慌都在加剧。 ..

‘John, dear, I’m ashamed to show you my book, for I’ve really been dreadfully extravagant lately. I go about so much I must have things, you know, and Sallie advised my getting it, so I did, and my New Year’s money will partly pay for it, but I was sorry after I had done it, for I knew you’d think it wrong in me.’
“约翰，亲爱的，我很不好意思给你看我的书，因为我最近实在是太奢侈了。我到处奔走，我必须拥有一些东西，你知道，莎莉建议我去买，所以我就买了，我的压岁钱将部分支付它，但我做了之后很抱歉，因为我了解你。我认为这是错误的。

John laughed, and drew her round beside him, saying goodhumoredly, ‘Don’t go and hide. I won’t beat you if you have got a pair of killing boots. I’m rather proud of my wife’s feet, and don’t mind if she does pay eight or nine dollars for her boots, if they are good ones.’
约翰笑了，把她拉到自己身边，幽默地说：“别躲起来。”如果你有一双杀人靴，我不会打败你。我为我妻子的脚感到相当自豪，如果她的靴子质量好的话，我也不介意她花八九美元买一双靴子。

That had been one of her last ‘trifles’, and John’s eye had fallen on it as he spoke. ‘Oh, what will he say when he comes to that awful fifty dollars!’ thought Meg, with a shiver.
那是她最后的“小事”之一，约翰说话的时候目光落在了它上面。 “哦，当他拿到那可怕的五十美元时，他会说什么！”梅格想，打了个寒颤。

‘It’s worse than boots, it’s a silk dress,’ she said, with the calmness of desperation, for she wanted the worst over.
“它比靴子更糟糕，它是一件丝绸连衣裙，”她带着绝望的平静说道，因为她希望最坏的事情能够过去。

‘Well, dear, what is the ‘dem’d total’, as Mr. Mantalini says?’
“好吧，亲爱的，正如曼塔利尼先生所说，‘总数’是多少？”

That didn’t sound like John, and she knew he was looking up at her with the straightforward look that she had always been ready to meet and answer with one as frank till now. She turned the page and her head at the same time, pointing to the sum which would have been bad enough without the fifty, but which was appalling to her with that added. For a minute the room was very still, then John said slowly—but she could feel it cost him an effort to express no displeasure—…
这听起来不像约翰，她知道他正抬头看着她，眼神直截了当，直到现在，她一直准备好以坦率的眼神迎接和回答。她一边翻着书页，一边转过头，指着这个数字，如果没有五十，那数字就已经够糟糕了，但加上这个数字，她就感到震惊了。一分钟房间里非常安静，然后约翰慢慢地说——但她能感觉到他费了很大力气才表达出不悦——……

‘Well, I don’t know that fifty is much for a dress, with all the furbelows and notions you have to have to finish it off these days.’
“嗯，我不知道五十块钱对一件衣服来说算不算多，因为这些天你必须要完成它的所有毛茸茸的东西和想法。”

‘It isn’t made or trimmed,’ sighed Meg, faintly, for a sudden recollection of the cost still to be incurred quite overwhelmed her.
“它还没有制作或修剪过，”梅格微弱地叹了口气，因为突然想起仍要付出的代价让她不知所措。

‘Twenty-five yards of silk seems a good deal to cover one small woman, but I’ve no doubt my wife will look as fine as Ned Moffat’s when she gets it on,’ said John dryly.
“二十五码的丝绸对于一个小个子女人来说似乎很划算，但我毫不怀疑，当我的妻子穿上它时，她会看起来像内德·莫法特的一样漂亮，”约翰干巴巴地说。

‘I know you are angry, John, but I can’t help it. I don’t mean to waste your money, and I didn’t think those little things would count up so. I can’t resist them when I see Sallie buying all she wants, and pitying me because I don’t. I try to be contented, but it is hard, and I’m tired of being poor.’
“我知道你很生气，约翰，但我无法控制。我无意浪费你的钱，我也不认为这些小事会如此重要。当我看到莎莉买了她想要的一切，并因为我不买而可怜我时，我无法抗拒它们。我试图满足，但这很难，而且我厌倦了贫穷。”

The last words were spoken so low she thought he did not hear them, but he did, and they wounded him deeply, for he had denied himself many pleasures for Meg’s sake. She could have bitten her tongue out the minute she had said it, for John pushed the books away and got up, saying with a little quiver in his voice, ‘I was afraid of this. I do my best, Meg.’ If he had scolded her, or even shaken her, it would not have broken her heart like those few words. She ran to him and held him close, crying, with repentant tears, ‘Oh, John, my dear, kind, hard-working boy. I didn’t mean it! It was so wicked, so untrue and ungrateful, how could I say it! Oh, how could I say it!’
最后几句话说得太低了，她以为他没有听到，但他确实听到了，这深深地伤害了他，因为他为了梅格而放弃了自己的许多快乐。她一说出口，就想咬掉自己的舌头，因为约翰把书推开，站起来，声音有点颤抖，“我害怕这个。”我会尽力而为，梅格。”如果他责骂她，甚至动摇她，也不会像那几句话那样让她心碎。她跑向他，紧紧地抱住他，流着悔恨的泪水哭泣：“哦，约翰，我亲爱的、善良的、勤奋的男孩。”我不是故意的！太邪恶了，太不真实了，忘恩负义，我怎么能说呢！哦，我怎么能这么说呢！

He was very kind, forgave her readily, and did not utter one reproach, but Meg knew that she had done and said a thing which would not be forgotten soon, although he might never allude to it again. She had promised to love him for better or worse, and then she, his wife, had reproached him with his poverty, after spending his earnings recklessly. It was dreadful, and the worst of it was John went on so quietly afterward, just as if nothing had happened, except that he stayed in town later, and worked at night when she had gone to cry herself to sleep. A week or remorse nearly made Meg sick, and the discovery that John had countermanded the order for his new greatcoat reduced her to a state of despair which was pathetic to behold. He had simply said, in answer to her surprised inquiries as to the change, ‘I can’t afford it, my dear.’
他很仁慈，欣然原谅了她，没有出声责备，但梅格知道她所做的和所说的一件不会很快被忘记的事情，尽管他可能永远不会再提及它。她曾承诺无论好坏都会爱他，然后她，他的妻子，在不顾一切地花掉他的收入后，指责他贫穷。这太可怕了，最糟糕的是约翰后来继续如此安静地生活，就像什么都没发生一样，只是他稍后留在城里，晚上工作时她已经哭着入睡了。一周或悔恨几乎让梅格生病了，而约翰取消了他的新大衣的订单的发现使她陷入了绝望的状态，这看起来很可怜​​。在回答她对这一变化的惊讶询问时，他只是简单地说：“我买不起，亲爱的。”

Meg said no more, but a few minutes after he found her in the hall with her face buried in the old greatcoat, crying as if her heart would break.
梅格没有再说什么，但几分钟后，他发现她在大厅里，脸埋在旧大衣里，哭得心都要碎了。

They had a long talk that night, and Meg learned to love her husband better for his poverty, because it seemed to have made a man of him, given him the strength and courage to fight his own way, and taught him a tender patience with which to bear and comfort the natural longings and failures of those he loved.
那天晚上，他们进行了一次长谈，梅格学会了更加爱她的丈夫，因为他的贫穷，因为这似乎让他成为了一个男人，给了他力量和勇气，以自己的方式奋斗，并教会了他温柔的耐心。用来承受和安慰他所爱的人的自然渴望和失败。

Next day she put her pride in her pocket, went to Sallie, told the truth, and asked her to buy the silk as a favor. The goodnatured Mrs. Moffat willingly did so, and had the delicacy not to make her a present of it immediately afterward. Then Meg ordered home the greatcoat, and when John arrived, she put it on, and asked him how he liked her new silk gown. One can imagine what answer he made, how he received his present, and what a blissful state of things ensued. John came home early, Meg gadded no more, and that greatcoat was put on in the morning by a very happy husband, and taken off at night by a most devoted little wife. So the year rolled round, and at midsummer there came to Meg a new experience, the deepest and tenderest of a woman’s life.
第二天，她把骄傲装进了口袋，去找莎莉，说了实话，请她买丝绸作为一个人情。和蔼可亲的莫法特夫人心甘情愿地这么做了，而且很谨慎地没有立即把它当作礼物送给她。然后梅格订购了一件大衣回家，当约翰到达时，她穿上它，并问他喜欢她的新丝绸礼服。人们可以想象他会做出什么样的回答，他是如何收到礼物的，以及随之而来的一种多么幸福的状态。约翰很早就回家了，梅格也不再烦躁了，那件大衣早上被一位非常幸福的丈夫穿上，晚上又被一位最忠诚的小妻子脱下。一年又过去了，仲夏时节，梅格有了一种新的体验，这是女人一生中最深刻、最温柔的体验。

Laurie came sneaking into the kitchen of the Dovecote one Saturday, with an excited face, and was received with the clash of cymbals, for Hannah clapped her hands with a saucepan in one and the cover in the other.
一个周六，劳里一脸兴奋地偷偷溜进了鸽舍的厨房，迎接她的是钹声，汉娜拍着手，一手拿着平底锅，另一手拿着盖子。

‘How’s the little mamma? Where is everybody? Why didn’t you tell me before I came home?’ began Laurie in a loud whisper.
‘小妈妈怎么样了？大家都去哪了？ “你为什么不在我回家之前告诉我？”劳里大声低声说道。

‘Happy as a queen, the dear! Every soul of ‘em is upstairs a worshipin’. We didn’t want no hurrycanes round. Now you go into the parlor, and I’ll send ‘em down to you,’ with which somewhat involved reply Hannah vanished, chuckling ecstatically.
“像女王一样快乐，亲爱的！他们的每一个灵魂都在楼上崇拜。我们不希望周围没有芦苇。现在你走进客厅，我会把“它们送给你”，汉娜欣喜若狂地咯咯笑着，有些复杂的回答消失了。

Presently Jo appeared, proudly bearing a flannel bundle laid forth upon a large pillow. Jo’s face was very sober, but her eyes twinkled, and there was an odd sound in her voice of repressed emotion of some sort.
不久，乔出现了，自豪地拿着放在大枕头上的法兰绒包。乔的脸色很清醒，但她的眼睛却闪烁着光芒，她的声音里有一种奇怪的声音，带着某种压抑的情绪。

‘Shut your eyes and hold out your arms,’ she said invitingly.
“闭上眼睛，伸出双臂，”她邀请道。

Laurie backed precipitately into a corner, and put his hands behind him with an imploring gesture. ‘No, thank you. I’d rather not. I shall drop it or smash it, as sure as fate.’
劳里急忙退到角落里，双手放在身后，做出恳求的姿势。 '不，谢谢。我宁愿不。我要么把它扔掉，要么把它砸碎，就像命运一样。”

‘Then you shan’t see your nevvy,’ said Jo decidedly, turning as if to go.
“那你就看不到你的女佣了，”乔坚决地说，转身准备走。

‘I will, I will! Only you must be responsible for damages.’ And obeying orders, Laurie heroically shut his eyes while something was put into his arms. A peal of laughter from Jo, Amy, Mrs. March, Hannah, and John caused him to open them the next minute, to find himself invested with two babies instead of one.
‘我会的，我会的！只有你必须对损失负责。”劳里听从命令，英勇地闭上了眼睛，同时有东西放进了他的怀里。乔、艾米、马奇夫人、汉娜和约翰的一阵笑声让他下一分钟打开它们，发现自己养了两个孩子，而不是一个。

No wonder they laughed, for the expression of his face was droll enough to convulse a Quaker, as he stood and stared wildly from the unconscious innocents to the hilarious spectators with such dismay that Jo sat down on the floor and screamed.
难怪他们会笑，因为他的表情滑稽得足以让贵格会教徒抽搐，他站着，疯狂地凝视着无意识的无辜者和欢闹的观众，他沮丧得坐在地板上尖叫起来。

‘Twins, by Jupiter!’ was all he said for a minute, then turning to the women with an appealing look that was comically piteous, he added, ‘Take ‘em quick, somebody! I’m going to laugh, and I shall drop ‘em.’
“双胞胎，天哪！”他只说了一会儿话，然后转向女人们，脸上带着一种诱人的表情，但又显得滑稽可怜，他补充道，“快点带走她们，伙计们！”我会笑，然后我就会把它们扔掉。

Jo rescued his babies, and marched up and down, with one on each are, as if already initiated into the mysteries of babytending, while Laurie laughed till the tears ran down his cheeks.
乔救了他的孩子，每人都抱着一个，来回走动，仿佛已经开始接触照顾婴儿的奥秘，而劳里则笑得泪水顺着脸颊流下来。

‘It’s the best joke of the season, isn’t it? I wouldn’t have told you, for I set my heart on surprising you, and I flatter myself I’ve done it,’ said Jo, when she got her breath.
“这是本季最好的笑话，不是吗？我不会告诉你的，因为我一心想给你一个惊喜，我自以为我已经做到了。”乔缓过气来说道。

‘I never was more staggered in my life. Isn’t it fun? Are they boys? What are you going to name them? Let’s have another look. Hold me up, Jo, for upon my life it’s one too many for me,’ returned Laurie, regarding the infants with the air of a big, benevolent Newfoundland looking at a pair of infantile kittens.
“我一生中从未如此震惊过。是不是很有趣？他们是男孩吗？你要给它们起什么名字？我们再看一下。抱住我，乔，因为这对我来说实在是太多了。”劳里回答道，他看着这些婴儿，就像一只大而仁慈的纽芬兰猫看着一对小猫一样。

‘Boy and girl. Aren’t they beauties?’ said the proud papa, beaming upon the little red squirmers as if they were unfledged angels.
‘男孩和女孩。她们不是美女吗？”骄傲的爸爸说道，对着那些蠕动的红色小动物微笑着，仿佛它们是羽翼未丰的天使。

‘Most remarkable children I ever saw. Which is which?’ and Laurie bent like a well-sweep to examine the prodigies.
“我见过的最杰出的孩子们。哪个是哪个？”劳里像扫井机一样弯下腰来检查这些神童。

‘Amy put a blue ribbon on the boy and a pink on the girl, French fashion, so you can always tell. Besides, one has blue eyes and one brown. Kiss them, Uncle Teddy,’ said wicked Jo.
“艾米给男孩系了一条蓝色丝带，给女孩系了一条粉色丝带，法国时尚，所以你总能看出来。此外，一只眼睛是蓝色的，一只眼睛是棕色的。亲吻它们吧，泰迪叔叔。”邪恶的乔说道。

‘I’m afraid they mightn’t like it,’ began Laurie, with unusual timidity in such matters.
“我担心他们可能不喜欢它，”劳里开始说道，在这种事情上表现得异常胆怯。

‘Of course they will, they are used to it now. Do it this minute, sir!’ commanded Jo, fearing he might propose a proxy.
“当然会，他们现在已经习惯了。”先生，现在就做！”乔命令道，担心他会推荐一个代理人。

Laurie screwed up his face and obeyed with a gingerly peck at each little cheek that produced another laugh, and made the babies squeal.
劳里皱起脸，小心翼翼地在孩子们的小脸颊上啄了一下，又笑了起来，让婴儿们尖叫起来。

‘There, I knew they didn’t like it! That’s the boy, see him kick, he hits out with his fists like a good one. Now then, young Brooke, pitch into a man of your own size, will you?’ cried Laurie, delighted with a poke in the face from a tiny fist, flapping aimlessly about.
‘在那里，我知道他们不喜欢它！就是那个男孩，看他踢球，他用拳头打出好拳。现在，年轻的布鲁克，向一个和你一样大的人发起进攻，好吗？”劳里喊道，她很高兴用一只小拳头戳了戳脸，漫无目的地拍打着。

‘He’s to be named John Laurence, and the girl Margaret, after mother and grandmother. We shall call her Daisey, so as not to have two Megs, and I suppose the mannie will be Jack, unless we find a better name,’ said Amy, with aunt-like interest.
“他的名字是约翰·劳伦斯，女孩是玛格丽特，以母亲和祖母的名字命名。我们就叫她黛西吧，这样就不会生两个梅格了，我想曼妮应该是杰克，除非我们找到一个更好的名字。”艾米带着姨妈般的兴趣说道。

‘Name him Demijohn, and call him Demi for short,’ said Laurie
“给他起名叫德米约翰，简称德米，”劳里说道。

‘Daisy and Demi, just the thing! I knew Teddy would do it,’ cried Jo clapping her hands.
“黛西和黛米，就是这样！”我知道泰迪会做到的，”乔拍手喊道。

Teddy certainly had done it that time, for the babies were ‘Daisy’ and ‘Demi’ to the end of the chapter.
泰迪当时确实做到了，因为在本章末尾，这两个婴儿都是“黛西”和“黛米”。

CHAPTER TWENTY-NINE
第二十九章

‘Come, Jo, it’s time.’
“来吧，乔，时间到了。”

‘For what?’
'为了什么？'

‘You don’t mean to say you have forgotten that you promised to make half a dozen calls with me today?’
“你该不会是说你忘记了你答应今天要给我打六通电话吧？”

‘I’ve done a good many rash and foolish things in my life, but I don’t think I ever was mad enough to say I’d make six calls in one day, when a single one upsets me for a week.’
“我一生中做过很多鲁莽和愚蠢的事情，但我认为我从来没有疯狂到说我会在一天内打六个电话，而一个电话却让我心烦意乱一周。”

‘Yes, you did, it was a bargain between us. I was to finish the crayon of Beth for you, and you were to go properly with me, and return our neighbors’ visits.’
“是的，你做到了，这是我们之间的讨价还价。我要为你完成贝丝的蜡笔，你要和我一起好好走，回访我们的邻居。

‘If it was fair, that was in the bond, and I stand to the letter of my bond, Shylock. There is a pile of clouds in the east, it’s not fair, and I don’t go.’
“如果公平的话，那是在保证金里的，​​我遵守保证金的字面意思，夏洛克。东方有一堆云，这不公平，我不去。”

‘Now, that’s shirking. It’s a lovely day, no prospect of rain, and you pride yourself on keeping; promises, so be honorable, come and do your duty, and then be at peace for another six months.’
‘现在看来，这是在逃避。这是一个美好的一天，预计不会下雨，你为自己能坚持下来而感到自豪；诺言，所以要诚实，来履行你的职责，然后再平静六个月。”

At that minute Jo was particularly absorbed in dressmaking, for she was mantua-maker general to the family, and took especial credit to herself because she could use a needle as well as a pen. It was very provoking to be arrested in the act of a first tryingon, and ordered out to make calls in her best array on a warm July day. She hated calls of the formal sort, and never made any till Amy compelled her with a bargain, bribe, or promise. In the present instance there was no escape, and having clashed her scissors rebelliously, while protesting that she smelled thunder, she gave in, put away her work, and taking up her hat and gloves with an air of resignation, told Amy the victim was ready.
在那一刻，乔特别专注于裁缝，因为她是家里的曼图亚制造商总负责人，并且因为她会使用针和钢笔而特别相信自己。在第一次试镜时就被捕，并被命令在七月温暖的一天以最好的姿势出去打电话，这是非常令人恼火的。她讨厌正式的电话，除非艾米用讨价还价、贿赂或承诺强迫她，否则她从来不打任何电话。在目前的情况下，她无路可逃，她叛逆地用剪刀猛烈地撞击，同时抗议她闻到了雷霆的味道，她屈服了，放下手中的工作，一脸无奈地拿起帽子和手套，告诉艾米，受害者是准备好。

‘Jo March, you are perverse enough to provoke a saint! You don’t intend to make calls in that state, I hope,’ cried Amy, surveying her with amazement.
‘乔·马奇，你竟然够悖逆圣人了！我希望你不会在那种状态下打电话。”艾米惊讶地打量着她，喊道。

‘Why not? I’m neat and cool and comfortable, quite proper for a dusty walk on a warm day. If people care more for my clothes than they do for me, I don’t wish to see them. You can dress for both, and be as elegant as you please. It pays for you to be fine. It doesn’t for me, and furbelows only worry me.’
'为什么不？我穿着整洁、凉爽、舒适，很适合在温暖的日子里在尘土飞扬的天气里散步。如果人们关心我的衣服胜过关心我，我就不想看到他们。您可以穿两种风格的衣服，并随心所欲地保持优雅。让你过得好是值得的。这不适合我，毛皮只会让我担心。

‘Oh, dear!’ sighed Amy, ‘now she’s in a contrary fit, and will drive me distracted before I can get her properly ready. I’m sure it’s no pleasure to me to go today, but it’s a debt we owe society, and there’s no one to pay it but you and me. I’ll do anything for you, Jo, if you’ll only dress yourself nicely, and come and help me do the civil. You can talk so well, look so aristocratic in your best things, and behave so beautifully, if you try, that I’m proud of you. I’m afraid to go alone, do come and take care of me.’
“哦，亲爱的！”艾米叹了口气，“现在她的情况正好相反，在我让她做好准备之前，这会让我分心。”我确信今天去我并不高兴，但这是我们欠社会的一笔债，除了你和我，没有人偿还。乔，我愿意为你做任何事，只要你穿得漂漂亮亮，并来帮我办理民事手续。你可以说得那么好，在你最好的事情上看起来那么贵族，如果你尝试的话，你的举止那么漂亮，我为你感到骄傲。我害怕一个人去，你过来照顾我吧。”

‘You’re an artful little puss to flatter and wheedle your cross old sister in that way. The idea of my being aristocratic and well-bred, and your being afraid to go anywhere alone! I don’t know which is the most absurd. Well, I’ll go if I must, and do my best. You shall be commander of the expedition, and I’ll obey blindly, will that satisfy you?’ said Jo, with a sudden change from perversity to lamblike submission.
“你真是个狡猾的小猫，竟然用这种方式来奉承和哄骗你那脾气暴躁的老妹妹。我是贵族，有教养，而你却不敢一个人去任何地方！我不知道哪个是最荒谬的。好吧，如果必须的话我会去，并尽力而为。你将成为远征队的指挥官，我会盲目服从，这会让你满意吗？”乔说，突然从乖僻变成了羔羊般的屈服。

‘You’re a perfect cherub! Now put on all your best things, and I’ll tell you how to behave at each place, so that you will make a good impression. I want people to like you, and they would if you’d only try to be a little more agreeable. Do your hair the pretty way, and put the pink rose in your bonnet. It’s becoming, and you look too sober in your plain suit. Take your light gloves and the embroidered handkerchief. We’ll stop at Meg’s, and borrow her white sunshade, and then you can have my dove-colored one.’
‘你是一个完美的小天使！现在穿上你最好的衣服，我会告诉你在每个地方应该如何表现，这样你才会给人留下好印象。我希望人们喜欢你，只要你表现得更友善一点，他们就会喜欢你。把你的头发打理得漂亮一些，然后把粉红玫瑰戴在你的帽子上。这很合适，你穿着朴素的西装看起来太清醒了。带上你的轻便手套和绣花手帕。我们会在梅格那里停下来，借用她的白色遮阳伞，然后你就可以拥有我的鸽子色遮阳伞。

While Amy dressed, she issued her orders, and Jo obeyed them, not without entering her protest, however, for she sighed as she rustled into her new organdie, frowned darkly at herself as she tied her bonnet strings in an irreproachable bow, wrestled viciously with pins as she put on her collar, wrinkled up her features generally as she shook out the handkerchief, whose embroidery was as irritating to her nose as the present mission was to her feelings, and when she had squeezed her hands into tight gloves with three buttons and a tassel, as the last touch of elegance, she turned to Amy with an imbecile expression of countenance, saying meekly...
艾米穿好衣服后，她下达了命令，乔服从了命令，但她也提出了抗议，因为她在沙沙地穿上新的纱裙时叹了口气，在把帽子带子系成无可挑剔的蝴蝶结时阴暗地皱着眉头，恶狠狠地摔跤。当她别上衣领时，她的脸普遍皱起来，当她抖出手帕时，手帕上的刺绣对她的鼻子来说就像当前的任务对她的感情一样刺激，当她把双手紧紧地戴上带有三个纽扣和流苏，作为最后的优雅，她转向艾米，一脸傻气，温顺地说道……

‘I’m perfectly miserable, but if you consider me presentable, I die happy.’
“我非常痛苦，但如果你认为我体面，我会很高兴地死去。”

‘You’re highly satisfactory. turn slowly round, and let me get a careful view.’ Jo revolved, and Amy gave a touch here and there, then fell back, with her head on one side, observing graciously, ‘Yes, you’ll do. Your head is all I could ask, for that white bonnet with the rose is quite ravishing. Hold back your shoulders, and carry your hands easily, no matter if your gloves do pinch. There’s one thing you can do well, Jo, that is, wear a shawl. I can’t, but it’s very nice to see you, and I’m so glad Aunt March gave you that lovely one. It’s simple, but handsome, and those folds over the arm are really artistic. Is the point of my mantle in the middle, and have I looped my dress evenly? I like to show my boots, for my feet are pretty, though my nose isn’t.’
‘你非常满意。慢慢转过来，让我仔细看看。”乔旋转了一下，艾米到处碰了碰，然后向后倒去，头偏向一边，和蔼地观察着，“是的，你会的。我所能要求的就是你的头脑，因为那顶带有玫瑰的白色帽子非常迷人。保持肩膀向后，轻松握住双手，无论手套是否会夹伤。乔，有一件事你可以做得很好，那就是戴披肩。我不能，但很高兴见到你，我很高兴马奇阿姨送给你那个可爱的礼物。很简单，但是很帅气，手臂上的那些褶皱真的很有艺术感。我的斗篷的尖端在中间吗？我的衣服是否均匀地绕成环？我喜欢展示我的靴子，因为我的脚很漂亮，尽管我的鼻子不漂亮。”

‘You are a thing of beauty and a joy forever,’ said Jo, looking through her hand with the air of a connoisseur at the blue feather against the golden hair. ‘Am I to drag my best dress through the dust, or loop it up, please, ma’am?’
“你是一件美丽的事，永远是一件快乐的事。”乔说道，她以鉴赏家的态度透过她的手看着金色头发上的蓝色羽毛。 “女士，我应该把我最好的衣服拖进灰尘，还是把它盘起来？”

‘Hold it yup when you walk, but drop it in the house. The sweeping style suits you best, and you must learn to trail your skirts gracefully. You haven’t half buttoned one cuff, do it at once. You’ll never look finished if you are not careful about the little details, for they make yup the pleasing whole.’
“走路时拿着它，但把它扔进屋里。”扫地风格最适合你，一定要学会优雅地拖曳裙子。你的袖口扣子还没有扣一半，赶紧扣吧。如果你不注意小细节，你永远不会看起来完成，因为它们使你成为令人愉快的整体。

Jo sighed, and proceeded to burst the buttons off her glove, in doing up her cuff, but at last both were ready, and sailed away, looking as ‘pretty as picters’, Hannah said, as she hung out of the upper window to watch them.
乔叹了口气，开始解开手套上的纽扣，穿起袖口，但最后两人都准备好了，然后扬帆离开，汉娜说，她挂在上面的窗户外面，看起来“像画中的画一样漂亮”。看他们。

‘Now, Jo dear, the Chesters consider themselves very elegant people, so I want you to put on your best deportment. Don’t make any of your abrupt remarks, or do anything odd, will you? Just be calm, cool, and quiet, that’s safe and ladylike, and you can easily do it for fifteen minutes,’ said Amy, as they approached the first place, having borrowed the white parasol and been inspected by Meg, with a baby on each arm.
“现在，亲爱的乔，切斯特夫妇认为自己是非常优雅的人，所以我希望你表现出最好的举止。不要发表任何唐突的话，或者做任何奇怪的事情，好吗？只要冷静、冷静、安静，这样既安全又淑女，十五分钟就可以轻松做到。”艾米借了一把白色遮阳伞，带着婴儿在梅格的检查下，走到了第一个地方。每只手臂。

‘Let me see. ‘Calm, cool, and quiet’, yes, I think I can promise that. I’ve played the part of a prim young lady on the stage, and I’ll try it off. My powers are great, as you shall see, so be easy in your mind, my child.’
'让我看看。 “冷静、冷静、安静”，是的，我想我可以保证这一点。我在舞台上扮演过一位拘谨的小姐，我会尝试一下。正如你将会看到的，我的力量是伟大的，所以你要放轻松，我的孩子。

Amy looked relieved, but naughty Jo took her at her word, for during the first call she sat with every limb gracefully composed, every fold correctly draped, calm as a summer sea, cool as a snowbank, and as silent as the sphinx. In vain Mrs. Chester alluded to her ‘charming novel’, and the Misses Chester introduced parties, picnics, the opera, and the fashions. Each and all were answered by a smile, a bow, and a demure ‘Yes’ or ‘No’ with the chill on. In vain Amy telegraphed the word ‘talk’, tried to draw her out, and administered covert pokes with her foot. Jo sat as if blandly unconcious of it all, with deportment like Maud’s face, ‘icily regular, splendidly null’.
艾米看起来松了口气，但调皮的乔相信了她的话，因为在第一次打电话时，她坐着，四肢优雅，每条褶皱都正确地覆盖着，平静如夏日的大海，凉爽如雪堆，沉默如狮身人面像。切斯特夫人徒劳地提到了她的“迷人的小说”，切斯特小姐介绍了聚会、野餐、歌剧和时尚。每个人都以微笑、鞠躬和娴静的“是”或“否”来回答，态度冷漠。艾米徒劳地发出“谈话”这个词，试图把她拉出来，并用脚暗中戳戳。乔坐在那里，仿佛对这一切都无动于衷，举止就像莫德的脸，“冰冷的规律，极其空虚”。

‘What a haughty, uninteresting creature that oldest Miss March is!’ was the unfortunately audible remark of one of the ladies, as the door closed upon their guests. Jo laughed noiselessly all through the hall, but Amy looked disgusted at the failure of her instructions, and very naturally laid the blame upon Jo.
“这位最年长的马奇小姐是个多么傲慢、无趣的人啊！”不幸的是，当房门向客人关上时，一位女士这样说道。整个大厅里乔都无声无息地大笑，艾米却对她的指示失败一脸厌恶，很自然地将责任归咎于乔身上。

‘How could you mistake me so? I merely meant you to be properly dignified and composed, and you made yourself a perfect stock and stone. Try to be sociable at the Lamb’s’. Gossip as other girls do, and be interested in dress and flirtations and whatever nonsense comes up. They move in the best society, are valuable persons for us to know, and I wouldn’t fail to make a good impression there for anything.’
‘你怎么能这样误会我呢？我只是想让你保持适当的尊严和镇定，而你却把自己变成了一块完美的石头。尝试在羔羊家与人交往。像其他女孩一样八卦，对着装、调情和任何胡言乱语感兴趣。他们生活在最好的社会，是我们认识的有价值的人，我不会在任何事情上给他们留下好印象。

‘I’ll be agreeable. I’ll gossip and giggle, and have horrors and raptures over any trifle you like. I rather enjoy this, and now I’ll imitate what is called ‘a charming girl’. I can do it, for I have May Chester as a model, and I’ll improve upon her. See if the Lambs don’t say, ‘What a lively, nice creature that Jo March is!’
‘我会同意的。我会说闲话、咯咯笑，并对你喜欢的任何小事感到恐惧和狂喜。我倒是挺喜欢这样的，现在我就模仿一下所谓的‘魅力女孩’吧。我能做到，因为我有梅·切斯特作为模特，我会在她的基础上改进。看看羔羊们是否会说：“乔·马奇是一个多么活泼、多么好的生物啊！”

Amy felt anxious, as well she might, for when Jo turned freakish there was no knowing where she would stop. Amy’s face was a study when she saw her sister skim into the next drawing room, kiss all the young ladies with effusion, beam graciously upon the young gentlemen, and join in the chat with a spirit which amazed the beholder. Amy was taken possession of by Mrs. Lamb, with whom she was a favorite, and forced to hear a long account of Lucretia’s last attack, while three delightful young gentlemen hovered near, waiting for a pause when they might rush in and rescue her. So situated, she was powerless to check Jo, who seemed possessed by a spirit of mischief, and talked away as volubly as the lady. A knot of heads gathered about her, and Amy strained her ears to hear what was going on, for broken sentences filled her with curiosity, and frequent peals of laughter made her wild to share the fun. One may imagine her suffering on overhearing fragments of this sort of conversation.
艾米感到焦虑，她也可能感到焦虑，因为当乔变得怪异时，她不知道她会在哪里停止。当艾米看到她的妹妹快步走进隔壁的客厅，热情地亲吻所有的年轻女士，对年轻的绅士们亲切地微笑，并以一种令旁观者惊叹的精神加入聊天时，她的表情变得很严肃。艾米被兰姆夫人占据了，她是她最喜欢的人，被迫听了卢克丽霞最后一次袭击的长篇叙述，而三位令人愉快的年轻绅士则在附近盘旋，等待着暂停，以便他们冲进去救她。在这种情况下，她无力制止乔，乔似乎被恶作剧的鬼附身了，就像那位女士一样滔滔不绝地说着。一大群人围着她，艾米竖起耳朵想听听发生了什么，因为断断续续的句子让她充满了好奇，而频繁的笑声让她疯狂地分享乐趣。人们可以想象她无意中听到这种谈话片段时的痛苦。

‘She rides splendidly. who taught her?’
‘她骑得很棒。谁教她的？

‘No one. She used to practice mounting, holding the reins, and sitting straight on an old saddle in a tree. Now she rides anything, for she doesn’t know what fear is, and the stableman lets her have horses cheap because she trains them to carry ladies so well. She has such a passion for it, I often tell her if everything else fails, she can be a horsebreaker, and get her living so.’
'没有人。她过去常常练习骑马、握住缰绳，以及坐在树上的旧马鞍上。现在她骑任何东西，因为她不知道什么是恐惧，马夫让她便宜地拥有马，因为她训练它们很好地载着女士。她对此充满热情，我经常告诉她，如果其他一切都失败了，她可以成为一名马术师，并以此为生。

At this awful speech Amy contained herself with difficulty, for the impression was being given that she was rather a fast young lady, which was her especial aversion. But what could she do? For the old lady was in the middle of her story, and long before it was done, Jo was off again, make more droll revelations and committing still more fearful blunders.
听了这场可怕的演讲，艾米很难克制自己，因为给人的印象是她是一位相当快的年轻女士，这是她特别厌恶的。但她能做什么呢？因为老太太正在讲她的故事，而在故事结束之前很久，乔又离开了，揭露了更多滑稽的事情，犯下了更可怕的错误。

‘Yes, Amy was in despair that day, for all the good beasts were gone, and of three left, one was lame, one blind, and the other so balky that you had to put dirt in his mouth before he would start. Nice animal for a pleasure party, wasn’t it?’
“是的，那天艾米很绝望，因为所有的好动物都消失了，只剩下三只，一只是瘸子，一只是瞎子，另一只非常顽固，你必须在他的嘴里塞上泥土才能开始。这是一个欢乐派对的好动物，不是吗？

‘Which did she choose?’ asked one of the laughing gentlemen, who enjoyed the subject.
“她选择了哪一个？”一位喜欢这个话题的绅士笑着问道。

‘None of them. She heard of a young horse at the farm house over the river, and though a lady had never ridden him, she resolved to try, because he was handsome and spirited. Her struggles were really pathetic. There was no one to bring the horse to the saddle, so she took the saddle to the horse. My dear creature, she actually rowed it over the river, put it on her head, and marched up to the barn to the utter amazement of the old man!’
'没有一个。她听说河对岸的农舍里有一匹年轻的马，虽然从来没有一位女士骑过它，但她决定尝试一下，因为它英俊而活泼。她的挣扎实在是太可悲了。没有人把马牵到马鞍上，她就把马鞍拿到马身上。我亲爱的生物，她居然把它划过河，把它戴在头上，然后大步走向谷仓，这让老人大吃一惊！

‘Did she ride the horse?’
“她骑马了吗？”

‘Of course she did, and had a capital time. I expected to see her brought home in fragments, but she managed him perfectly, and was the life of the party.’
“她当然这么做了，并且度过了一段美好的时光。我原以为会看到她被带回家，但她完美地控制了他，成为了聚会的焦点。

‘Well, I call that plucky!’ And young Mr. Lamb turned an approving glance upon Amy, wondering what his mother could be saying to make the girl look so red and uncomfortable.
“嗯，我认为这很勇敢！”年轻的兰姆先生赞许地看了艾米一眼，想知道他的母亲到底说了些什么，让这个女孩看起来如此红润和不舒服。

She was still redder and more uncomfortable a moment after, when a sudden turn in the conversation introduced the subject of dress. One of the young ladies asked Jo where she got the pretty drab hat she wore to the picnic and stupid Jo, instead of mentioning the place where it was bought two years ago, must needs answer with unnecessary frankness, ‘Oh, Amy painted it. You can’t buy those soft shades, so we paint ours any color we like. It’s a great comfort to have an artistic sister.’
过了一会儿，当话题突然转向服装时，她的脸更红了，也更不舒服了。一位年轻女士问乔，她去野餐时戴的那顶漂亮的土褐色帽子是在哪里买的，愚蠢的乔，没有提到两年前买帽子的地方，而是必须以不必要的坦率回答，“哦，艾米画的。”你买不到那些柔和的色调，所以我们把它涂成任何我们喜欢的颜色。有一个有艺术天赋的妹妹真是太安慰了。”

‘Isn’t that an original idea?’ cried Miss Lamb, who found Jo great fun.
“这不是一个原创的想法吗？”兰姆小姐喊道，她发现乔很有趣。

‘That’s nothing compared to some of her brilliant performances. There’s nothing the child can’t do. Why, she wanted a pair of blue boots for Sallie’s party, so she just painted her soiled white ones the loveliest shade of sky blue you ever saw, and they looked exactly like satin,’ added Jo, with an air of pride in her sister’s accomplishments that exasperated Amy till she felt that it would be a relief to throw her cardcase at her.
“与她的一些精彩表演相比，这根本不算什么。没有什么是孩子做不到的。为什么，她想要一双蓝色的靴子来参加莎莉的聚会，所以她只是把她那双脏兮兮的白色靴子漆成你所见过的最可爱的天蓝色，它们看起来就像缎子一样。”乔补充道，脸上带着对姐姐的骄傲的神情。这些成就让艾米很恼火，直到她觉得把名片盒扔给她会是一种解脱。

‘We read a story of yours the other day, and enjoyed it very much,’ observed the elder Miss Lamb, wishing to compliment the literary lady, who did not look the character just then, it must be confessed.
“前几天我们读了你的一个故事，非常喜欢。”年长的兰姆小姐说道，她想称赞这位文学女士，但必须承认，她当时看上去并不像那个人物。

Any mention of her ‘works’ always had a bad effect upon Jo, who either grew rigid and looked offended, or changed the subject with a brusque remark, as now. ‘Sorry you could find nothing better to read. I write that rubbish because it sells, and ordinary people like it. Are you going to New York this winter?’
任何提及她的“作品”总是会给乔带来不好的影响，她要么变得僵硬，看起来很生气，要么像现在一样，用粗鲁的话转移话题。 “抱歉，你找不到更好的读物了。我写那些垃圾是因为它很畅销，而且老百姓喜欢它。今年冬天你要去纽约吗？

As Miss Lamb had ‘enjoyed’ the story, this speech was not exactly grateful or complimentary. The minute it was made Jo saw her mistake, but fearing to make the matter worse, suddenly remembered that it was for her to make the first move toward departure, and did so with an abruptness that left three people with halffinished sentences in their mouths.
由于兰姆小姐“喜欢”这个故事，所以这篇演讲并不完全是感激或赞美。乔一看到自己的错误，又怕事情变得更糟，突然想起是她先迈出了离开的一步，动作突然，让三个人嘴里都没有说完。

‘Amy, we must go. Good-by, dear, do come and see us. We are pining for a visit. I don’t dare to ask you, Mr. Lamb, but if you should come, I don’t think I shall have the heart to send you away.’
‘艾米，我们必须走了。再见，亲爱的，一定要来看我们。我们渴望参观。兰姆先生，我不敢问你，但如果你来了，我想我也不忍心送你走。

Jo said this with such a droll imitation of May Chester’s gushing style that Amy got out of the room as rapidly as possible, feeling a strong desire to laugh and cry at the same time.
乔说这句话时，模仿梅·切斯特滔滔不绝的语气，显得滑稽可笑，艾米赶紧离开了房间，感到既想笑又想哭。

‘Didn’t I do well?’ asked Jo, with a satisfied air as they walked away.
“我做得不是很好吗？”当他们走开时，乔带着满意的神情问道。

‘Nothing could have been worse,’ was Amy’s crushing reply. ‘What possessed you to tell those stories about my saddle, and the hats and boots, and all the rest of it?’
“没有比这更糟糕的了。”艾米的回答令人心碎。 “是什么促使你讲述那些关于我的马鞍、帽子和靴子以及所有其他东西的故事？”

‘Why, it’s funny, and amuses people. They know we are poor, so it’s no use pretending that we have grooms, buy three or four hats a season, and have things as easy and fine as they do.’
‘为什么，这很有趣，而且使人们感到高兴。他们知道我们很穷，所以假装我们有新郎，每个季节买三四顶帽子，并且拥有像他们一样简单和美好的东西是没有用的。

‘You needn’t go and tell them all our little shifts, and expose our; poverty in that perfectly unnecessary way. You haven’t a bit of proper pride, and never will learn when to hold your tongue and when to speak,’ said Amy despairingly.
“你不必去告诉他们我们所有的小举动，并揭露我们的；以那种完全不必要的方式陷入贫困。你没有一点应有的骄傲，永远也学不会什么时候该闭嘴，什么时候该说话。”艾米绝望地说。

Poor Jo looked abashed, and silently chafed the end of her nose with the stiff handkerchief, as if performing a penance for her misdemeanors.
可怜的乔一脸羞愧，默默地用僵硬的手帕擦着鼻尖，仿佛在为自己的轻罪忏悔。

‘How shall I behave here?’ she asked, as they approached the third mansion.
“我在这里该怎么表现？”当他们接近第三座宅邸时，她问道。

‘Just as you please. I wash my hands of you,’ was Amy’s short answer.
‘随你便吧。我不再对你动手了。”艾米简短地回答道。

‘Then I’ll enjoy myself. The boys are at home, and we’ll have a comfortable time. Goodness knows I need a little change, for elegance has a bad effect upon my constitution,’ returned Jo gruffly, being disturbed by her failure to suit.
‘那我就尽情享受吧。孩子们在家，我们会度过一段舒适的时光。天知道我需要一点改变，因为优雅会对我的体质产生不良影响。”乔粗声粗气地回答，她因自己不合身而感到不安。

An enthusiastic welcome from three big boys and several pretty children speedily soothed her ruffled feelings, and leaving Amy to entertain the hostess and Mr. Tudor, who happened to be calling likewise, Jo devoted herself to the young folks and found the change refreshing. She listened to college stories with deep interest, caressed pointers and poodles without a murmur, agreed heartily that ‘Tom Brown was a brick,’ regardless of the improper form of praise, and when one lad proposed a visit to his turtle tank, she went with an alacrity which caused Mamma to smile upon her, as that motherly lady settled the cap which was left in a ruinous condition by filial hugs, bearlike but affectionate, and dearer to her than the most faultless coiffure from the hands of an inspired Frenchwoman.
三个大男孩和几个漂亮孩子的热烈欢迎很快安抚了她烦躁的心情，让艾米去招待女主人和恰好也打电话来的都铎先生，乔全身心地投入到年轻人身上，发现这种变化令人耳目一新。她饶有兴趣地听着大学故事，无声地抚摸着指示犬和贵宾犬，无论赞美的形式多么不恰当，她都衷心同意“汤姆·布朗是块砖头”，当一个小伙子提议参观他的海龟缸时，她就去了当那位慈母般的女士整理好因孝顺的拥抱而弄得破烂不堪的帽子时，妈妈高兴地对她微笑，像熊一样但充满感情，对她来说比一位充满灵感的法国女人手中最完美的发型更珍贵。

Leaving her sister to her own devices, Amy proceeded to enjoy herself to her heart’s content. Mr. Tudor’s uncle had married an English lady who was third cousin to a living lord, and Amy regarded the whole family with great respect, for in spite of her American birth and breeding, she possessed that reverence for titles which haunts the best of us—that unacknowledged loyalty to the early faith in kings which set the most democratic nation under the sun in ferment at the coming of a royal yellow-haired laddie, some years ago, and which still has something to do with the love the young country bears the old, like that of a big son for an imperious little mother, who held him while she could, and let him go with a farewell scolding when he rebelled. But even the satisfaction of talking with a distant connection of the British nobility did not render Amy forgetful of time, and when the proper number of minutes had passed, she reluctantly tore herself from this aristocratic society, and looked about for Jo, fervently hoping that her incorrigible sister would not be found in any position which should bring disgrace upon the name of March.
艾米把妹妹留给自己，继续尽情享受。都铎先生的叔叔娶了一位英国女士，她是一位在世领主的第三代堂兄，艾米非常尊重整个家庭，因为尽管她在美国出生和长大，但她对头衔的尊重却困扰着我们中最优秀的人。 ——几年前，对早期国王信仰的不加承认的忠诚，在一位黄发皇家小伙子的到来时，使这个阳光下最民主的国家陷入了发酵，而这种忠诚仍然与这个年轻国家所怀有的热爱有关。老的，就像一个大儿子面对一个专横的小母亲，只要她能抱住他，当他叛逆时，她就会在告别时责骂他，让他走。但即使是与英国贵族远亲交谈的满足感也没有使艾米忘记时间，当适当的分钟过去时，她不情愿地脱离了这个贵族社会，四处寻找乔，热切地希望她那无可救药的妹妹不会出现在任何会给马奇的名誉带来耻辱的职位上。

It might have been worse, but Amy considered it bad. For Jo sat on the grass, with an encampment of boys about her, and a dirty-footed dog reposing on the skirt of her state and festival dress, as she related one of Laurie’s pranks to her admiring audience. One small child was poking turtles with Amy’s cherished parasol, a second was eating gingerbread over Jo’s best bonnet, and a third playing ball with her gloves. but all were enjoying themselves, and when Jo collected her damaged property to go, her escort accompanied her, begging her to come again, ‘It was such fun to hear about Laurie’s larks.’
情况可能更糟，但艾米认为这很糟糕。乔坐在草地上，周围是一群男孩，一只脏脚狗躺在她礼服和节日礼服的裙摆上，她正在向崇拜她的观众讲述劳里的一个恶作剧。一个小孩用艾米心爱的阳伞戳乌龟，第二个小孩在乔最好的帽子上吃姜饼，第三个小孩戴着手套玩球。但所有人都玩得很开心，当乔收拾好损坏的财产准备离开时，她的护送者陪着她，恳求她再来一次，“听到劳里的百灵鸟的事真是太有趣了。”

‘Capital boys, aren’t they? I feel quite young and brisk again after that.’ said Jo, strolling along with her hands behind her, partly from habit, partly to conceal the bespattered parasol.
‘资本男孩，不是吗？在那之后，我感觉自己又年轻了，又精神抖擞了。”乔一边说着，一边漫步着，双手背在身后，部分是出于习惯，部分是为了遮住沾满污迹的阳伞。

‘Why do you always avoid Mr. Tudor?’ asked Amy, wisely refraining from any comment upon Jo’s dilapidated appearance.
“你为什么总是避开都铎先生？”艾米问道，明智地没有对乔破旧的外表发表任何评论。

‘Don’t like him, he puts on airs, snubs his sisters, worries his father, a nd doesn’t speak respectfully of his mother. Laurie says he is fast, and I don’t consider him a desirable acquaintance, so I let him alone.’
“不喜欢他，他摆架子，冷落他的姐妹，担心他的父亲，也不尊重他的母亲。劳里说他速度很快，而且我不认为他是一个理想的熟人，所以我就让他一个人呆着。

‘You might treat him civilly, at least. You gave him a cool nod, and just now you bowed and smiled in the politest way to Tommy Chamberlain, whose father keeps a grocery store. If you had just reversed the nod and the bow, it would have been right,’ said Amy reprovingly.
“至少你可以礼貌地对待他。你冷静地点了点头，刚才你还以最礼貌的方式向汤米·张伯伦鞠躬并微笑，他的父亲经营着一家杂货店。如果你把点头和鞠躬的方向颠倒一下，那就对了。”艾米责备地说。

‘No, it wouldn’t,’ returned Jo, ‘I neither like, respect, nor admire Tudor, though his grandfather’s uncle’s nephew’s niece was a third cousin to a lord. Tommy is poor and bashful and good and very clever. I think well of him, and like to show that I do, for he is a gentleman in spite of the brown paper parcels.’
“不，不会的，”乔回答道，“我既不喜欢、不尊重、也不钦佩都铎王朝，尽管他祖父的叔叔的侄子的侄女是某位领主的第三代表弟。汤米既贫穷又害羞，但善良而且非常聪明。我对他的评价很好，并且想表明我对他的评价很好，因为尽管有牛皮纸包裹，他仍然是一位绅士。

‘It’s no use trying to argue with you,’ began Amy.
“与你争论是没有用的，”艾米开始说道。

‘Not the least, my dear,’ interrupted Jo, ‘so let us look amiable, and drop a card here, as the Kings are evidently out, for which I’m deeply grateful.’
“最重要的是，亲爱的，”乔打断道，“所以让我们表现得和蔼可亲，在这里放一张牌，因为国王队显然已经出局了，对此我深表感激。”

The family cardcase having done its duty the girls walked on, and Jo uttered another thanksgiving on reaching the fifth house, and being told that the young ladies were engaged.
家庭名片盒完成了它的职责，女孩们继续前行，乔在到达第五宫时再次表达了感恩之情，并被告知年轻的女士们已经订婚了。

‘now let us go home, and never mind Aunt March today. We can run down there any time, and it’s really a pity to trail through the dust in our best bibs and tuckers, when we are tired and cross.’
‘现在我们回家吧，别管今天马奇姨妈了。我们随时都可以跑到那里，当我们累了、生气的时候，穿着最好的围兜和裤衩在尘土中行走，真的很遗憾。

‘Speak for yourself, if you please. Aunt March likes to have us pay her the compliment of coming in style, and making a formal call. It’s a little thing to do, but it gives her pleasure, and I don’t believe it will hurt your things half so much as letting dirty dogs and clumping boys spoil them. Stoop down, and let me take the crumbs off of your bonnet.’
‘如果你愿意的话，请为自己说话。马奇阿姨喜欢让我们称赞她来得很时尚，并且打了一个正式电话。这是一件小事，但它给了她快乐，而且我不相信这对你的东西的伤害比让肮脏的狗和成群的男孩破坏它们还要多。弯下腰，让我把你帽子上的面包屑去掉。”

‘What a good girl you are, Amy!’ said Jo, with a repentant glance from her own damaged costume to that of her sister, which was fresh and spotless still. ‘I wish it was as easy for me to do little things to please people as it is for you. I think of them, but it takes too much time to do them, so I wait for a chance to confer a great favor, and let the small ones slip, but they tell best in the end, I fancy.’
“艾米，你真是个好女孩！”乔说道，她悔恨地看了看自己破损的服装，又看了看她妹妹的衣服，她的衣服仍然崭新如初，一尘不染。 “我希望我能像你一样轻松地做些小事来取悦别人。我想到了它们，但要做起来需要太多时间，所以我等待机会给予一个大恩惠，并让小事溜走，但我想它们最终会说得最好。

Amy smiled and was mollified at once, saying with a maternal air, ‘Women should learn to be agreeable, particularly poor ones, for they have no other way of repaying the kindnesses they receive. If you’d remember that, and practice it, you’d be better liked than I am, because there is more of you.’
艾米笑了笑，立刻就安息下来，带着母性的语气说道：“女人应该学会和蔼可亲，尤其是贫穷的女人，因为她们没有其他办法来报答所受的恩惠。”如果你能记住这一点，并付诸实践，你会比我更受欢迎，因为你的人数更多。

‘I’m a crotchety old thing, and always shall be, but I’m willing to own that you are right, only it’s easier for me to risk my life for a person than to be pleasant to him when I don’t feel like it. It’s a great misfortune to have such strong likes and dislikes, isn’t it?’
“我是一个脾气暴躁的老东西，而且永远都是，但我愿意承认你是对的，只是对我来说，为一个人冒生命危险比在我感觉不舒服时对他感到愉快更容易喜欢它。有如此强烈的好恶，真是太不幸了，不是吗？

‘It’s a greater not to be able to hide them. I don’t mind saying that I don’t approve of Tudor any more than you do, but I’m not called upon to tell him so. Neither are you, and there is no use in making yourself disagreeable because he is.’
‘无法隐藏它们是更伟大的事情。我不介意说我和你一样不赞成都铎，但我没有被要求告诉他这一点。你也不是，因为他是，所以让自己变得不愉快是没有用的。

‘But I think girls ought to show when they disapprove of young men, and how can they do it except by their manners? Preaching does not do any good, as I know to my sorrow, since I’ve had Teddie to manage. But there are many little ways in which I can influence him without a word, and I say we ought to do it to others if we can.’
“但我认为女孩们在不赞成年轻人时应该表现出来，除了通过举止之外，她们还能怎么做到呢？”我悲伤地知道，说教没有任何好处，因为我要照顾泰迪。但我可以通过很多小方法，一言不发地影响他，我说，如果可以的话，我们应该对其他人这样做。

‘Teddy is a remarkable boy, and can’t be taken as a sample of other boys,’ said Amy, in a tone of solemn conviction, which would have convulsed the ‘remarkable boy’ if he had heard it. ‘If we were belles, or women of wealth and position, we might do something, perhaps, but for us to frown at one set of young gentlemen because we don’t approve of them, and smile upon another set because we do, wouldn’t have a particle of effect, and we should only be considered odd and puritanical.’
“泰迪是一个了不起的男孩，不能被当作其他男孩的样本。”艾米用一种庄严的信念说道，如果这个“了不起的男孩”听到的话，他一定会感到震惊。 “如果我们是美女，或者有钱有势的女人，也许我们会做点什么，但如果我们因为不赞成某一组年轻绅士而皱眉，因为我们赞成而对另一组年轻绅士微笑，我们就不会这么做。” “没有任何影响，我们只能被视为古怪和清教徒。”

‘So we are to countenance things and people which we detest, merely because we are not belles and millionaires, are we? That’s a nice sort of morality.’
‘所以，我们应该仅仅因为我们不是美女和百万富翁而支持我们所厌恶的事物和人，不是吗？这是一种很好的道德。”

‘I can’t argue about it, I only know that it’s the way of the world, and people who set themselves against it only get laughed at for their pains. I don’t like reformers, and I hope you never try to be one.’
“我无法争论，我只知道这就是世界的规律，那些反对它的人只会因为他们的痛苦而被嘲笑。我不喜欢改革者，我希望你永远不要试图成为一名改革者。

‘I do like them, and I shall be one if I can, for in spite of the laughing the world would never get on without them. We can’t agree about that. for you belong to the old set, and I to the new. You will get on the best, but I shall have the liveliest time of it. I should rather enjoy the brickbats and hooting, I think.’
“我确实喜欢他们，如果可以的话，我也想成为他们中的一员，因为尽管有他们在欢笑，但如果没有他们，世界就永远不会运转。我们对此不能达成一致。因为你属于旧派，而我属于新派。你会过得最好，但我会度过最热闹的时光。我想，我更应该享受那些拍砖和叫喊的乐趣。

‘Well, compose yourself now, and don’t worry Aunt with your new ideas.’
“好吧，现在冷静一下，别因为你的新想法而让阿姨担心。”

‘I’ll try not to, but I’m always possessed to burst out with some particularly blunt speech or revolutionary sentiment before her. It’s my doom, and I can’t help it.’
“我会尽量不这样做，但我总是想在她面前说出一些特别直率的言论或革命情绪。这是我的宿命，我无能为力。

They found Aunt Carrol with the old lady, both absorbed in some very interesting subject, but they dropped it as the girls came in, with a conscious look which betrayed that they had been talking about their nieces. Jo was not in a good humor, and the perverse fit returned, but Amy, who had virtuously done her duty, kept her temper and pleased everybody, was in a most angelic frame of mind. This amiable spirit was felt at once, and both aunts ‘my deared’ her affectionately, looking what they afterward said emphatically, ‘That child improves every day.’
他们发现卡罗尔姨妈和老太太在一起，两人都专注于某个非常有趣的话题，但当女孩们进来时，她们就放弃了话题，神情有意识地暴露了她们一直在谈论她们的侄女。乔的心情不太好，反常的脾气又回来了，但艾米尽职尽责，控制住自己的脾气，取悦了大家，她的心境就像天使一样。这种和蔼可亲的精神一下子就被感受到了，两位阿姨都亲切地“亲爱的”她，看着她们后来强调的一句话：“那孩子一天天进步了。”

‘Are you going to help about the fair, dear?’ asked Mrs. Carrol, as Amy sat down beside her with the confiding air elderly people like so well in the young.
“亲爱的，你要帮忙做一下集市的事吗？”卡罗尔太太问道，艾米在她旁边坐下，脸上带着老人般的自信神情，就像年轻人一样。

‘Yes, Aunt. Mrs. Chester asked me if I would, and I offered to tend a table, as I have nothing but my time to give.’
‘是的，阿姨。切斯特夫人问我是否愿意，我主动提出帮忙照看一张桌子，因为我除了时间之外什么也没有。

‘I’m not,’ put in Jo decidedly. ‘I hate to be patronized, and the Chesters think it’s a great favor to allow us to help with their highly connected fair. I wonder you consented, Amy, they only want you to work.’
“我不是，”乔坚决地说。 “我讨厌被人居高临下，切斯特夫妇认为让我们帮助他们举办关系密切的博览会是一个很大的帮助。我不知道你是否同意，艾米，他们只希望你工作。

‘I am willing to work. It’s for the freedmen as well as the Chesters, and I think it very kind of them to let me share the labor and the fun. Patronage does not trouble me when it is well meant.’
‘我愿意工作。这是为了自由民和切斯特夫妇，我认为他们让我分享劳动和乐趣真是太好了。当善意的赞助不会让我烦恼。

‘Quite right and proper. I like your grateful spirit, my dear. It’s a pleasure to help people who appreciate our efforts. Some do not, and that is trying,’ observed Aunt March, looking over her spectacles at Jo, who sat apart, rocking herself, with a somewhat morose expression.
‘非常正确和恰当。我喜欢你的感恩精神，亲爱的。很高兴能够帮助那些欣赏我们努力的人。有些人不这样做，这很困难，”马奇姨妈观察道，她从眼镜上看着乔，乔坐在一边，摇晃着身体，表情有些忧郁。

If Jo had only known what a great happiness was wavering in the balance for one of them, she would have turned dove-like in a minute, but unfortunately, we don’t have windows in our breasts, and cannot see what goes on in the minds of our friends. Better for us that we cannot as a general thing, but now and then it would be such a comfort, such a saving of time and temper. By her next speech, Jo deprived herself of several years of pleasure, and received a timely lesson in the art of holding her tongue.
如果乔知道他们中的一个人的天平上有多么巨大的幸福在动摇，她立刻就会变得像鸽子一样，但不幸的是，我们的胸膛没有窗户，看不到里面发生了什么。我们朋友的心。对于我们来说，一般情况下不能这样做会更好，但偶尔这会是一种安慰，这样可以节省时间和脾气。通过她的下一次演讲，乔剥夺了自己几年来的快乐，并及时接受了关于保持沉默的艺术的一课。

‘I don’t like favors, they oppress and make me feel like a slave. I’d rather do everything for myself, and be perfectly independent.’
“我不喜欢恩惠，它们压迫我，让我感觉自己像个奴隶。我宁愿自己做所有事情，并且完全独立。”

‘Ahem!’ coughed Aunt Carrol softly, with a look at Aunt March.
“咳咳！”卡罗尔姨妈轻轻咳嗽了一声，看着马奇姨妈。

‘I told you so,’ said Aunt March, with a decided nod to Aunt Carrol.
“我早就告诉过你了，”马奇姨妈说道，同时坚定地向卡罗尔姨妈点了点头。

Mercifully unconscious of what she had done, Jo sat with her nose in the air, and a revolutionary aspect which was anything but inviting.
幸亏乔没有意识到自己做了什么，她昂着鼻子坐着，一副革命性的样子，一点也不吸引人。

‘Do you speak French, dear?’ asked Mrs. Carrol, laying a hand on Amy’s.
“亲爱的，你会说法语吗？”卡罗尔夫人将一只手放在艾米的手上问道。

‘Pretty well, thanks to Aunt March, who lets Esther talk to me as often as I like,’ replied amy, with a grateful look, which caused the old lady to smile affably.
“很好，多亏了马奇姨妈，她让埃丝特经常跟我说话。”艾米满脸感激地回答，这让老太太和蔼地笑了。

‘How are you about languages?’ asked Mrs. Carrol of JO.
“你对语言怎么样？”JO 的卡罗尔夫人问道。

‘Don’t know a word. I’m very stupid about studying anything, can’t bear French, it’s such a slippery, silly sort of language,’ was the brusque reply.
‘一个字也不认识。我对学习任何东西都很愚蠢，无法忍受法语，这是一种很狡猾、愚蠢的语言。”他粗鲁地回答道。

Another look passed between the ladies, and Aunt March said to Amy, ‘You are quite strong and well no, dear, I believe? Eyes don’t trouble you any more, do they?’
两位女士又看了一眼，马奇姨妈对艾米说：“亲爱的，我相信你很坚强，不是吗？”眼睛不再困扰你了，是吗？

‘Not at all, thank you, ma’am. I’m very well, and mean to do great things next winter, so that I may be ready for Rome, whenever that joyful time arrives.’
“一点也不，谢谢你，女士。我很好，打算明年冬天做一些伟大的事情，这样无论何时那个快乐的时刻到来，我都可以为罗马做好准备。”

‘Good girl! You deserve to go, and I’m sure you will some day,’ said Aunt March, with an approving; pat on the head, as Amy picked up her ball for her.
‘好姑娘！你应该去，我相信有一天你会去的。”马奇姨妈表示赞同。当艾米为她捡起球时，拍拍她的头。

Crosspatch, draw the latch, Sit by the fire and spin,
交叉补丁，拉上门闩，坐在火边旋转，

squalled Polly, bending down from his perch on the back of her chair to peep into Jo’s face, with such a comical air of impertinent inquiry that it was impossible to help laughing.
“波莉叫道，她从椅背上弯下来，偷看乔的脸，带着一种无礼询问的滑稽神情，让人忍不住笑起来。

‘Most observing bird,’ said the old lady.
“最善于观察的鸟，”老太太说。

‘Come and take a walk, my dear?’ cried Polly, hopping toward the china closet, with a look suggestive of a lump of sugar.
“来散步吧，亲爱的？”波莉喊道，跳向瓷器柜，她的表情让人想起一块糖。

‘Thank you, I will. Come Amy.’ And Jo brought the visit to an end, feeling more strongly than ever that calls did have a bad effect upon her constitution. She shook hands in a gentlemanly manner, but Amy kissed both the aunts, and the girls departed, leaving behind them the impression of shadow and sunshine, which impression caused Aunt March to say, as they vanished...
'谢谢你我会的。艾米来吧。”乔结束了这次访问，比以往任何时候都更加强烈地感觉到电话确实对她的体质产生了不良影响。她以绅士的方式握手，但艾米亲吻了两位阿姨，女孩们离开了，留下了阴影和阳光的印象，这种印象让马奇阿姨在消失时说道……

‘You’d better do it, Mary. I’ll supply the money. And Aunt Carrol to reply decidedly, ‘I certainly will, if her father and mother consent.’
“你最好这么做，玛丽。我会提供资金。卡罗尔姨妈斩钉截铁地回答：“如果她的父母同意，我当然会的。”

CHAPTER THIRTY
第三十章

Mrs. Chester’s fair was so very elegant and select that it was considered a great honor by the young ladies of the neighborhood to be invited to take a table, and everyone was much interest in the matter. Amy was asked, but Jo was not, which was fortunate for all parties, as her elbows were decidedly akimbo at this period of her life, and it took a good many hard knocks to teach her how to get on easily. The ‘haughty, uninteresting creature’ was let severely alone, but Amy’s talent and taste were duly complimented by the offer of the art table, and she exerted herself to prepare and secure appropriate and valuable contributions to it.
切斯特夫人的集市办得非常高雅，也非常讲究，邻居们的年轻女士们都认为能受邀就座是一种莫大的荣幸，大家都对此很感兴趣。艾米被邀请了，但乔没有，这对各方来说都是幸运的，因为在她生命的这个阶段，她的肘部显然是叉腰的，并且经过了很多次艰难的打击才教会她如何轻松相处。这个“傲慢、无趣的生物”被严重孤立，但艾米的才华和品味因艺术桌的邀请而得到了应有的称赞，她努力准备并确保对其做出适当和有价值的贡献。

Everything went on smoothly till the day before the fair opened, then there occurred one of the little skirmishes which it is almost impossible to avoid, when some five-and-twenty women, old and young, with all their private piques and prejudices, try to work together.
一切都进行得很顺利，直到博览会开幕的前一天，然后发生了一场几乎无法避免的小冲突，当时一些五岁和二十岁的妇女，无论老少，带着各自的愤怒和偏见，尝试着去尝试。一起工作。

May Chester was rather jealous of Amy because the latter was a greater favorite than herself, and just at this time several trifling circumstances occurred to increase the feeling. Amy’s dainty pen-and-ink work entirely eclipsed May’s painted vases—that was one thorn. Then the all conquering Tudor had danced four times with Amy at a late party and only once with May—that was thorn number two. But the chief grievance that rankled in her soul, and gave an excuse for her unfriendly conduct, was a rumor which some obliging gossip had whispered to her, that the March girls had made fun of her at the Lambs’. All the blame of this should have fallen upon Jo, for her naughty imitation had been too lifelike to escape detection, and the frolicsome Lambs had permitted the joke to escape. No hint of this had reached the culprits, however, and Amy’s dismay can be imagined, when, the very evening before the fair, as she was putting the last touches to her pretty table, Mrs. Chester, who, of course, resented the supposed ridicule of her daughter, said, in a bland tone, but with a cold look...
梅·切斯特对艾米颇为嫉妒，因为艾米比自己更受宠爱，而此时发生的一些小事更增加了这种感觉。艾米精美的钢笔作品完全让梅的彩绘花瓶黯然失色——这是一根刺。然后，征服一切的都铎王朝在一场晚会上与艾米共舞了四次，只与梅共舞过一次——那是第二根刺。但令她心生不满、为她的不友好行为找借口的，主要是一些乐于助人的流言蜚语向她低声传出的谣言，说马奇家的姑娘们在羔羊家取笑了她。这一切的罪责都应该归咎于乔，因为她顽皮的模仿太过逼真，无法逃脱侦查，而嬉闹的兰姆却让这个笑话逃脱了。然而，罪魁祸首并没有得到任何线索，艾米的沮丧是可以想象的，就在展会前一天晚上，当她正在对她漂亮的桌子做最后的修饰时，切斯特夫人当然对这个行为感到不满。像是在嘲笑自己的女儿，语气平淡，但眼神却是冰冷的……

‘I find, dear, that there is some feeling among the young ladies about my giving this table to anyone but my girls. As this is the most prominent, and some say the most attractive table of all, and they are the chief getters-up of the fair, it is thought best for them to take this place. I’m sorry, but I know you are too sincerely interested in the cause to mind a little personal disappointment, and you shall have another table if you like.’
“亲爱的，我发现年轻女士们对我把这张桌子给除了我的女儿们以外的任何人都有一些感觉。由于这是最显眼的，有人说是最吸引人的桌子，而且他们是展会的主要推动者，因此认为他们最适合占据这个位置。抱歉，但我知道您对这项事业非常感兴趣，不会介意一点个人失望，如果您愿意，可以再坐一张桌子。

Mrs. Chester fancied beforehand that it would be easy to deliver this little speech, but when the time came, she found it rather difficult to utter it naturally, with Amy’s unsuspicious eyes looking straight at her full of surprise and trouble.
切斯特夫人原本以为说这句话很容易，但到了真正说出来的时候，却发现很难自然地说出来，艾米那双毫无疑心的眼睛直视着她，充满了惊讶和烦恼。

‘Amy felt that there was something behind this, but would not guess what, and said quietly, feeling hurt, and showing that she did, ‘Perhaps you had rather I took no table at all?’
“艾米觉得这背后有什么东西，但猜不出来是什么，她平静地说，感到受伤，并表明她确实如此，‘也许你宁愿我根本不坐桌子？’

‘Now, my dear, don’t have any ill feeling, I beg. It’s merely a matter of expediency, you see, my girls will naturally take the lead, and this table is considered their proper place. I think it very appropriate to you, and feel very grateful for your efforts to make it so pretty, but we must give up our private wishes, of course, and I will see that you have a good place elsewhere. Wouldn’t you like the flower table? The little girls undertook it, but they are discouraged. You could make a charming thing of it, and the flower table is always attractive you know.’
“现在，亲爱的，我请求你不要有任何不舒服的感觉。这只是权宜之计，你看，我家姑娘们自然会带头，这一桌也算她们该坐的地方了。我认为它非常适合你，并且非常感谢你为使它变得如此漂亮而付出的努力，但我们必须放弃我们的私人愿望，当然，我会看到你在其他地方有一个好地方。不喜欢花桌吗？小女孩们答应了，但她们却灰心丧气。你可以把它变成一件迷人的事情，而且花桌总是很有吸引力，你知道的。

‘Especially to gentlemen,’ added May, with a look which enlightened Amy as to one cause of her sudden fall from favor. She colored angrily, but took no other notice of that girlish sarcasm, and answered with unexpected amiability...
“尤其是对先生们，”梅补充道，她的表情让艾米明白了她突然失宠的原因之一。她气得脸色涨红，但并没有在意那少女般的讽刺，出人意料地和蔼可亲地回答道……

‘It shall be as you please, Mrs. Chester. I’ll give up my place here at once, and attend to the flowers, if you like.’
“如您所愿，切斯特夫人。”如果你愿意的话，我会立即放弃这里的位置，去照顾鲜花。

‘You can put your own things on your own table, if you prefer,’ began May, feeling a little conscience-stricken, as she looked at the pretty racks, the painted shells, and quaint illuminations Amy had so carefully made and so gracefully arranged. She meant it kindly, but Amy mistook her meaning, and said quickly . ..
“如果你愿意的话，你可以把你自己的东西放在你自己的桌子上，”梅开始说，当她看着艾米精心制作、如此优雅的漂亮架子、彩绘贝壳和古朴的灯饰时，她感到有点良心不安。安排的。她的本意是善意的，但艾米误会了她的意思，连忙说道。 ..

‘Oh, certainly, if they are in your way,’ and sweeping her contributions into her apron, pell-mell, she walked off, feeling that herself and her works of art had been insulted past forgiveness.
“哦，当然，如果它们妨碍了你的话，”她把自己的作品乱七八糟地塞进围裙里，走开，觉得自己和她的艺术作品受到了无法原谅的侮辱。

‘Now she’s mad. Oh, dear, I wish I hadn’t asked you to speak, Mama,’ said May, looking disconsolately at the empty spaces on her table.
‘现在她生气了。噢，亲爱的，我希望我没有请你说话，妈妈。”梅沮丧地看着桌子上的空位说道。

‘Girls’ quarrels are soon over,’ returned her mother, feeling a trifle ashamed of her own part in this one, as well she might.
“女孩们的争吵很快就会结束，”她母亲回答道，她为自己在这场争吵中所扮演的角色感到有点羞愧，她也可能这么做。

The little girls hailed Amy and her treasures with delight, which cordial reception somewhat soothed her perturbed spirit, and she fell to work, determined to succeed florally, if she could not artistically. But everything seemed against her. It was late, and she was tired. Everyone was too busy with their own affairs to help her, and the little girls were only hindrances, for the dears fussed and chattered like so many magpies, making a great deal of confusion in their artless efforts to preserve the most perfect order. The evergreen arch wouldn’t stay firm after she got it up, but wiggled and threatened to tumble down on her head when the hanging baskets were filled. Her best tile got a splash of water, which left a sephia tear on the Cupid’s cheek. She bruised her hands with hammering, and got cold working in a draft, which last affliction filled her with apprehensions for the morrow. Any girl reader who has suffered like afflictions will sympathize with poor Amy and wish her well through her task.
小女孩们高兴地向艾米和她的宝贝们致意，这种亲切的接待在一定程度上安抚了她烦躁的精神，她开始工作，决心在艺术上取得成功，如果她不能在艺术上取得成功的话。但一切似乎都对她不利。天色已晚，她也累了。每个人都忙着自己的事情，无法帮助她，而小女孩们只是障碍，因为亲爱的们像许多喜鹊一样大惊小怪，喋喋不休，在他们天真地努力维持最完美的秩序的过程中造成了很大的混乱。当她把它举起来后，常绿的拱门不会保持牢固，但当吊篮装满时，它会摇晃并威胁要从她的头上滚下来。她最好的瓷砖溅上了水，在丘比特的脸颊上留下了一滴棕褐色的眼泪。她的手被锤子碰伤了，在风中工作时感到很冷，这最后的痛苦让她对明天充满了忧虑。任何遭受过类似苦难的女读者都会同情可怜的艾米，并祝愿她顺利完成任务。

There was great indignation at home when she told her story that evening. Her mother said it was a shame, but told her she had done right. Beth declared she wouldn’t go to the fair at all, and Jo demanded why she didn’t take all her pretty things and leave those mean people to get on without her.
那天晚上，当她讲述她的故事时，家里引起了极大的愤慨。她的母亲说这很遗憾，但告诉她她做得对。贝丝宣称她根本不会去集市，乔质问她为什么不拿走所有漂亮的东西，让那些卑鄙的人离开她继续生活。

‘Because they are mean is no reason why i should be. I hate such things, and though I think I’ve a right to be hurt, I don’t intend to show it. They will feel that more than angry speeches or huffy actions, won’t they, Marmee?’
‘因为他们很卑鄙，但这并不是我应该这样做的理由。我讨厌这样的事情，虽然我认为我有权利受到伤害，但我不想表现出来。他们会感受到的不仅仅是愤怒的言论或愤怒的行为，不是吗，妈咪？

‘That’s the right spirit, my dear. A kiss for a blow is always best, though it’s not very easy to give it sometimes,’ said her mother, with the air of one who had learned the difference between preaching and practicing.
“这就是正确的精神，亲爱的。以吻换击总是最好的，尽管有时并不容易，”她母亲说道，语气就像一个已经学会了说教和实践之间的区别的人。

In spite of various very natural temptations to resent and retaliate, Amy adhered to her resolution all the next day, bent on conquering her enemy by kindness. She began well, thanks to a silent reminder that came to her unexpectedly, but most opportunely. As she arranged her table that morning, while the little girls were in the anteroom filling the baskets, she took up her pet production, a little book, the antique cover of which her father had found among his treasures, and in which on leaves of vellum she had beautifully illuminated different texts. As she turned the pages rich in dainty devices with very pardonable pride, her eye fell upon one verse that made her stop and think. Framed in a brilliant scrollwork of scarlet, blue and gold, with little spirits of good will helping one another up and down among the thorns and flowers, were the words, ‘Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself.’
尽管有各种很自然的怨恨和报复的诱惑，艾米第二天一整天都坚持她的决心，决心以仁慈征服她的敌人。她一开始就很顺利，这要归功于她出乎意料但又恰逢其时的无声提醒。那天早上，当她安排桌子时，小女孩们在前厅里装满篮子，她拿起她的宠物作品，一本小书，她父亲在他的宝藏中发现了这本书的古董封面，里面的叶子上有她在牛皮纸上精美地装饰了不同的文字。当她怀着无可厚非的自豪感翻阅充满精巧设计的书页时，她的目光落在了一节经文上，这让她停下来思考。猩红色、蓝色和金色的绚丽涡卷框架中，有善意的小精灵在荆棘和花朵中互相帮助，上面写着这样一句话：“你要爱人如己。”

‘I ought, but I don’t,’ thought Amy, as her eye went from the bright page to May’s discontented face behind the big vases, that could not hide the vacancies her pretty work had once filled. Amy stood a minute, turning the leaves in her hand, reading on each some sweet rebuke for all heartburnings and uncharitableness of spirit. Many wise and true sermons are preached us every day by unconscious ministers in street, school, office, or home. Even a fair table may become a pulpit, if it can offer the good and helpful words which are never out of season. Amy’s conscience preached her a little sermon from that text, then and there, and she did what many of us do not always do, took the sermon to heart, and straightway put it in practice. A group of girls were standing about May’s table, admiring the pretty things, and talking over the change of saleswomen. They dropped their voices, but Amy knew they were speaking of her, hearing one side of the story and judging accordingly. It was not pleasant, but a better spirit had come over her, and presently a chance offered for proving it. She heard May say sorrowfully...
“我应该这样做，但我不这样做，”艾米想道，同时她的目光从明亮的书页转向大花瓶后面梅不满的脸，那张脸无法掩盖她漂亮的作品曾经填补过的空缺。艾米站了一会儿，手里翻着书页，在每一页上读着一些对所有心痛和不仁慈精神的甜蜜谴责。每天，街道、学校、办公室或家里，无意识的传道人都在向我们宣讲许多明智而真实的讲道。即使是公平的桌子也可能成为讲坛，如果它能提供永不过时的好话和有益的话。艾米的良心当时就对那段经文进行了一点布道，她做了我们许多人不总是做的事情，将布道牢记在心，并立即付诸实践。一群女孩站在梅的桌子旁，欣赏着漂亮的东西，谈论着女售货员的变化。他们压低了声音，但艾米知道他们正在谈论她，听到了故事的一方面并做出了相应的判断。这并不令人愉快，但她的精神焕然一新，而且现在有机会证明这一点。她听到May悲伤地说……

‘It’s too bad, for there is no time to make other things, and I don’t want to fill up with odds and ends. The table was just complete then. Now it’s spoiled.’
“太糟糕了，因为没有时间做其他东西，而且我不想用零碎的东西来填满。那时桌子刚刚完成。现在它被宠坏了。

‘I dare say she’d put them back if you asked her,’ suggested someone.
“我敢说，如果你问她，她会把它们放回去，”有人建议道。

‘How could I after all the fuss?’ began May, but she did not finish, for Amy’s voice came across the hall, saying pleasantly...
“经历了这么多大惊小怪，我怎么能呢？”梅开始说，但她没有说完，因为艾米的声音穿过大厅，愉快地说……

‘You may have them, and welcome, without asking, if you want them. I was just thinking I’d offer to put them back, for they belong to your table rather than mine. Here they are, please take them, and forgive me if I was hasty in carrying them away last night.’
“你可以拥有它们，如果你想要的话，不用问就欢迎。我只是想把它们放回去，因为它们属于你的桌子而不是我的。它们在这里，请收下它们，如果我昨晚匆忙把它们带走，请原谅我。”

As she spoke, Amy returned her contribution, with a nod and a smile, and hurried away again, feeling that it was easier to do a friendly thing than it was to stay and be thanked for it.
说话间，艾米点头微笑，回应了她的贡献，然后又匆匆离开，她觉得做一件友好的事比留下来接受感谢更容易。

‘Now, I call that lovely of her, don’t you?’ cried one girl.
“现在，我觉得她很可爱，你觉得呢？”一个女孩喊道。

May’s answer was inaudible, but another young lady, whose temper was evidently a little soured by making lemonade, added, with a disagreeable laugh, ‘Very lovely, for she knew she wouldn’t sell them at her own table.’
梅的回答听不见，但另一位年轻女士，她的脾气显然因制作柠檬水而变得有点变坏，她带着不愉快的笑声补充道，“非常可爱，因为她知道她不会在自己的餐桌上卖这些柠檬水。”

Now, that was hard. When we make little sacrifices we like to have them appreciated, at least, and for a minute Amy was sorry she had done it, feeling that virtue was not always its won reward. But it is, as she presently discovered, for her spirits began to rise, and her table to blossom under her skillful hands, the girls were very kind, and that one little act seemed to have cleared the atmosphere amazingly.
现在，这很难。当我们做出小小的牺牲时，我们至少希望得到他们的赞赏，有那么一刻，艾米为自己所做的事情感到抱歉，觉得美德并不总是它赢得的回报。但她很快就发现，她的精神开始振奋起来，桌子在她灵巧的双手下绽放，女孩们都很友善，这一小小的举动似乎神奇地净化了气氛。

It was a very long day and a hard one for Amy, as she sat behind her table, often quite alone, for the little girls deserted very soon. Few cared to buy flowers in summer, and her bouquets began to droop long before night.
这是漫长的一天，对艾米来说也是艰难的一天，因为她坐在桌子后面，常常独自一人，因为小女孩们很快就离开了。夏天很少有人愿意买花，她的花束在入夜前很久就开始垂落。

The art table was the most attractive in the room. There was a crowd about it all day long, and the tenders were constantly flying to and fro with important faces and rattling money boxes. Amy often looked wistfully across, longing to be there, where she felt at home and happy, instead of in a corner with nothing to do. It might seem no hardship to some of us, but to a pretty, blithe young girl, it was not only tedious, but very trying, and the thought of Laurie and his friends made it a real martyrdom.
艺术桌是房间里最吸引人的。那里整天都是人头攒动，标书不断地来来往往，上面都是重要的面孔，钱箱嘎嘎作响。艾米常常若有所思地看着对面，渴望在那里，让她感到宾至如归、快乐，而不是在一个角落里无所事事。对于我们中的一些人来说，这似乎并不困难，但对于一个漂亮、快乐的年轻女孩来说，这不仅乏味，而且非常艰难，劳里和他的朋友们的想法使它成为真正的殉难。

She did not go home till night, and then she looked so pale and quiet that they knew the day had been a hard one, though she made no complaint, and did not even tell what she had done. Her mother gave her an extra cordial cup of tea. Beth helped her dress, and made a charming little wreath for her hair, while Jo astonished her family by getting herself up with unusual care, and hinting darkly that the tables were about to be turned.
直到晚上她才回家，她看上去那么苍白、那么安静，他们知道这一天过得很艰难，尽管她没有抱怨，甚至没有说出她做了什么。她的母亲给了她一杯额外亲切的茶。贝丝帮她穿好衣服，为她的头发做了一个迷人的小花环，而乔异常小心地起身，并阴暗地暗示局势即将逆转，这让她的家人感到惊讶。

‘Don’t do anything rude, pray Jo. I won’t have any fuss made, so let it all pass and behave yourself,’ begged Amy, as she departed early, hoping to find a reinforcement of flowers to refresh her poor little table.
“别做任何粗鲁的事，乔，祈祷吧。”我不会大惊小怪的，所以就让这一切过去吧，乖一点。”艾米恳求道，她提前离开了，希望能找到一些鲜花来补充她可怜的小桌子。

‘I merely intend to make myself entrancingly agreeable to ever one I know, and to keep them in your corner as long as possible. Teddy and his boys will lend a hand, and we’ll have a good time yet.’ returned Jo, leaning over the gate to watch for Laurie. Presently the familiar tramp was heard in the dusk, and she ran out to meet him.
“我只是想让自己对我认识的每一个人都非常友善，并尽可能长时间地让他们留在你的角落里。”泰迪和他的孩子们会伸出援手，我们会玩得很开心的。”乔回来了，靠在大门上寻找劳里。不久，黄昏中传来熟悉的脚步声，她跑出去迎接他。

‘Is that my boy?’
“那是我的儿子吗？”

‘As sure as this is my girl!’ And Laurie tucked her hand under his arm with the air of a man whose every wish was gratified.
“这确实是我的女儿！”劳里将她的手夹在自己的腋下，一副每一个愿望都得到满足的男人的神情。

‘Oh, teddy, such doings!’ And Jo told Amy’s wrongs with sisterly zeal.
“哦，泰迪，这样的行为！”乔以姐妹般的热情告诉了艾米的错误。

‘A flock of our fellows are going to drive over by-and-by, and I’ll be hanged if I don’t make them buy every flower she’s got, and camp down before her table afterward,’ said Laurie, espousing her cause with warmth.
“我们的一群人很快就会开车过去，如果我不让他们买下她买的每一朵花，然后在她的桌子前扎营，我就会被绞死，”劳里说，支持她因有温暖。

‘The flowers are not at all nice, Amy says, and the fresh ones may not arrive in time. I don’t wish to be unjust or suspicious, but I shouldn’t wonder if they never came at all. When people do one mean thing they are very likely to do another,’ observed Jo in a disgusted tone.
“这些花一点也不好看，艾米说，新鲜的花可能无法及时到达。我不想表现得不公正或多疑，但我不应该怀疑他们是否根本就没有来过。当人们做了一件卑鄙的事情时，他们很可能会做另一件事。”乔用厌恶的语气说道。

‘Didn’t Hayes give you the best out of our gardens? I told him to.’
“海耶斯不是给了你我们花园里最好的东西吗？我告诉他的。

‘I didn’t know that, he forgot, I suppose, and, as your grandpa was poorly, I didn’t like to worry him by asking, though I did want some.’
“我不知道，我想他忘了，而且，由于你爷爷身体不好，我不想问他让他担心，尽管我确实想要一些。”

‘Now, Jo, how could you think there was any need of asking? They are just as much yours as mine. Don’t we always go halves in everything?’ began Laurie, in the tone that always made Jo turn thorny.
“现在，乔，你怎么认为还有必要问呢？它们既属于你，也属于我。我们不是总是凡事都一半吗？”劳里开口说道，语气总是让乔感到棘手。

‘Gracious, I hope not! Half of some of your things wouldn’t suit me at all. But we mustn’t stand philandering here. I’ve got to help Amy, so you go and make yourself splendid, and if you’ll be so very kind as to let Hayes take a few nice flowers up to the Hall, I’ll bless you forever.’
‘天哪，我希望不会！你的一些东西有一半根本不适合我。但我们不能容忍在这里打情骂俏。我得帮助艾米，所以你去让自己变得光彩照人，如果你能好心让海耶斯带几朵漂亮的花去大厅，我会永远祝福你。

‘Couldn’t you do it now?’ asked Laurie, so suggestively that Jo shut the gate in his face with inhospitable haste, and called through the bars, ‘Go away, Teddy, I’m busy.’
“你现在就不能做吗？”劳里问道，语气如此暗示，乔不客气地匆忙地当着他的面关上了大门，并隔着栅栏喊道，“走开，泰迪，我很忙。”

Thanks to the conspirators, the tables were turned that night, for Hayes sent up a wilderness of flowers, with a loverly basket arranged in his best manner for a centerpiece. Then the March family turned out en masse, and Jo exerted herself to some purpose, for people not only came, but stayed, laughing at her nonsense, admiring Amy’s taste, and apparently enjoying themselves very much. Laurie and his friends gallantly threw themselves into the breach, bought up the bouquets, encamped before the table, and made that corner the liveliest spot in the room. Amy was in her element now, and out of gratitude, if nothing more, was as spritely and gracious as possible, coming to the conclusion, about that time, that virtue was it’s own reward, after all.
多亏了这些阴谋家，那天晚上局势发生了逆转，海耶斯送上了一大片鲜花，并以他最好的方式布置了一个可爱的篮子作为中心装饰品。然后马奇一家人全都出来了，乔竭尽全力达到了某种目的，因为人们不仅来了，而且留下来，嘲笑她的胡言乱语，欣赏艾米的品味，显然玩得很开心。劳里和他的朋友们英勇地冲进了缺口，买好了花束，在桌子前安营扎寨，让那个角落成为房间里最热闹的地方。艾米现在正处于她的境地，出于感激，如果没有更多的话，她尽可能地精神饱满和亲切，大约在那个时候得出的结论是，美德毕竟是它自己的回报。

Jo behaved herself with exemplary propriety, and when Amy was happily surrounded by her guard of honor, Jo circulated about the hall, picking up various bits of gossip, which enlightened her upon the subject of the Chester change of base. She reproached herself for her share of the ill feeling and resolved to exonerate Amy as soon as possible. She also discovered what Amy had done about the things in the morning, and considered her a model of magnanimity. As she passed the art table, she glanced over it for her sister’s things, but saw no sign of them. ‘Tucked away out of sight, I dare say,’ thought Jo, who could forgiver her own wrongs, but hotly resented any insult offered her family.
乔的举止举止堪称典范，当艾米高兴地被她的仪仗队包围时，乔在大厅里走来走去，听到各种各样的八卦，这让她对切斯特基地变更的话题有了启发。她责备自己的不愉快情绪，并决心尽快为艾米开脱。她还发现了艾米对早上的事情做了什么，认为她是大度的典范。当她经过画桌时，她扫了一眼，寻找姐姐的东西，但没有看到它们的踪迹。 “我敢说，藏在看不见的地方，”乔想，她可以原谅自己的错误，但对家人受到的任何侮辱感到非常不满。

‘Good evening, Miss Jo. How does Amy get on?’ asked May with a conciliatory air, for she wanted to show that she also could be generous.
“晚上好，乔小姐。 “艾米过得怎么样？”梅带着和解的神情问道，因为她想表明自己也可以很慷慨。

‘She has sold everything she had that was worth selling, and now she is enjoying herself. The flower table is always attractive, you know, ‘especially to gentlemen’.’
“她已经卖掉了所有值得卖掉的东西，现在她过得很开心。”你知道，花桌总是很有吸引力，“尤其是对绅士们”。

Jo couldn’t resist giving that little slap, but May took it so meekly she regretted it a minute after, and fell to praising the great vases, which still remained unsold.
乔忍不住打了那一巴掌，但梅温顺地接受了这一掌，一分钟后她就后悔了，并开始称赞那些尚未售出的大花瓶。

‘Is Amy’s illumination anywhere about’ I took a fancy to buy that for Father,’ said Jo, very anxious to learn the fate of her sister’s work.
“艾米的彩灯在哪里吗？我想买给父亲，”乔说，她非常渴望了解她姐姐的作品的命运。

‘Everything of Amy’s sold long ago. I took care that the right people saw them, and they made a nice little sum of money for us,’ returned May, who had overcome sundry small temptations, as well as Amy had, that day.
“艾米的所有东西早就卖掉了。我小心翼翼地让合适的人看到它们，他们为我们赚了一大笔钱。”梅回答道，那天她和艾米一样克服了各种各样的小诱惑。

Much gratified, Jo rushed back to tell the good news, and Amy looked both touched and surprised by the report of May’s word and manner.
乔非常高兴地赶回来告诉这个好消息，艾米对梅的言辞和态度的报道显得既感动又惊讶。

‘Now, gentlemen, I want you to go and do your duty by the other tables as generously as you have by mine, especially the art table,’ she said, ordering out ‘Teddy’s own’, as the girls called the college friends.
“现在，先生们，我希望你们能像在我的桌子上一样慷慨地履行你们的职责，尤其是艺术桌，”她说，点了“泰迪自己的”，这是女孩们对大学朋友的称呼。

‘Charge, Chester, charge!’ is the motto for that table, but do your duty like men, and you’ll get your money’s worth of art in every sense of the word,’ said the irrepressible Jo, as the devoted phalanx prepared to take the field.
“冲锋，切斯特，冲锋！”是那张桌子的座右铭，但像男人一样履行你的职责，你就会得到真正物有所值的艺术品，”在忠诚的方阵准备时，无法抑制的乔说道。占领该领域。

‘To hear is to obey, but March is fairer far than May,’ said little Parker, making a frantic effort to be both witty and tender, and getting promptly quenched by Laurie, who said...
“听到就是服从，但是三月比五月更美丽，”小帕克说道，他疯狂地努力表现得既机智又温柔，但很快就被劳里压制住了，劳里说……

‘Very well, my son, for a small boy!’ and walked him off, with a paternal pat on the head.
“很好，我的儿子，对于一个小男孩来说！”然后带着父亲般的拍拍他的头，送他离开。

‘Buy the vases,’ whispered Amy to Laurie, as a final heaping of coals of fire on her enemy’s head.
“买花瓶，”艾米低声对劳里说道，最后一堆炭火落在了她敌人的头上。

To May’s great delight, Mr. Laurence not only bought the vases, but pervaded the hall with one under each arm. The other gentlemen speculated with equal rashness in all sorts of frail trifles, and wandered helplessly about afterward, burdened with wax flowers, painted fans, filigree portfolios, and other useful and appropriate purchases.
让梅非常高兴的是，劳伦斯先生不仅买了这些花瓶，还在大厅里每人腋下各放了一个。其他绅士也同样轻率地投机各种脆弱的小事，然后无助地四处闲逛，背负着蜡花、彩扇、金银丝组合和其他有用且合适的物品。

Aunt Carrol was there, heard the story, looked pleased, and said something to Mrs. March in a corner, which made the latter lady beam with satisfaction, and watch Amy with a face full of mingled pride and anxiety, though she did not betray the cause of her pleasure till several days later.
卡罗尔姨妈也在场，听了这个故事，看上去很高兴，对角落里的马奇太太说了些什么，马奇太太满意地笑了，看着艾米，脸上充满了骄傲和焦虑，但她并没有背叛。直到几天后，她才感到高兴。

The fair was pronounced a success, and when May bade Amy goodnight, she did not gush as usual, but gave her an affectionate kiss, and a look which said ‘forgive and forget’. That satisfied Amy, and when she got home she found the vases paraded on the parlor chimney piece with a great bouquet in each. ‘The reward of merit for a magnanimous March,’ as Laurie announced with a flourish.
博览会被宣布成功，当梅向艾米道晚安时，她没有像往常那样滔滔不绝，而是给了她一个深情的吻，并用一种​​“原谅并忘记”的眼神。这让艾米很满意，当她回到家时，她发现花瓶在客厅的烟囱上排列着，每个花瓶里都插着一束很棒的花。劳里用夸张的方式宣布，“这是对慷慨进军功绩的奖励”。

‘You’ve a deal more principle and generosity and nobleness of character than I ever gave you credit for, Amy. You’ve behaved sweetly, and I respect you with all my heart,’ said Jo warmly, as they brushed their hair together late that night.
“艾米，你比我想象的更有原则、更慷慨、更高贵。”你表现得很可爱，我全心全意地尊重你。”那天深夜，当他们一起梳理头发时，乔热情地说。

‘Yes, we all do, and love her for being so ready to forgive. It must have been dreadfully hard, after working so long and setting your heart on selling your own pretty things. I don’t believe I could have done it as kindly as you did,’ added Beth from her pillow.
“是的，我们都喜欢，并且爱她如此愿意原谅。工作了这么久，一心想卖掉自己的漂亮东西，这一定是非常艰难的。我不相信我能像你那样仁慈地做到这一点，”贝丝在枕头上补充道。

‘Why, girls, you needn’t praise me so. I only did as I’d be done by. You laugh at me when I say I want to be a lady, but I mean a true gentlewoman in mind and manners, and I try to do it as far as I know how. I can’t explain exactly, but I want to be above the little meannesses and follies and faults that spoil so many women. I’m far from it now, but I do my best, and hope in time to be what Mother is.’
‘哎呀，姑娘们，你们不必这样称赞我。我只是做了别人该做的事。当我说我想成为一名女士时，你会嘲笑我，但我的意思是在思想和举止上成为一个真正的淑女，并且我会尽力做到这一点。我无法准确地解释，但我想超越那些毁掉这么多女人的小卑鄙、愚蠢和过失。我现在离这个目标还很远，但我会尽力而为，希望有一天能成为母亲那样的人。”

Amy spoke earnestly, and Jo said, with a cordial hug, ‘I understand now what you mean, and I’ll never laugh at you again. You are getting on faster than you think, and I’ll take lessons of you in true politeness, for you’ve learned the secret, I believe. Try away, deary, you’ll get your reward some day, and no one will be more delighted than I shall.’
艾米语重心长，乔亲切地拥抱道：“我现在明白你的意思了，我再也不会嘲笑你了。”你的进步比你想象的要快，我会以真正的礼貌向你学习，因为我相信你已经学会了这个秘密。努力吧，亲爱的，总有一天你会得到回报，没有人会比我更高兴。

A week later Amy did get her reward, and poor Jo found it hard to be delighted. A letter came from Aunt Carrol, and Mrs. March’s face was illuminated to such a degree when she read it that Jo and Beth, who were with her, demanded what the glad tiding were.
一周后，艾米确实得到了奖励，可怜的乔发现很难高兴。卡罗尔姨妈寄来一封信，马奇太太读到这封信时，脸上的光彩夺目，与她在一起的乔和贝丝询问这是什么好消息。

‘Aunt Carrol is going abroad next month, and wants...’
“卡罗尔姨妈下个月要出国，她想要……”

‘Me to go with her!’ burst in Jo, flying out of her chair in an uncontrollable rapture.
“我要和她一起去！”乔突然说道，她欣喜若狂，从椅子上飞起来。

‘No, dear, not you. It’s Amy.’
‘不，亲爱的，不是你。是艾米。

‘Oh, Mother! She’s too young, it’s my turn first. I’ve wanted it so long. It would do me so much good, and be so altogether splendid. I must go!’
‘噢，妈妈！她太年轻了，先轮到我了。我想要它很久了。这对我来说非常有好处，而且非常出色。我必须去！'

‘I’m afraid it’s impossible, Jo. Aunt says Amy, decidedly, and it is not for us to dictate when she offers such a favor.’
“恐怕这是不可能的，乔。姨妈肯定地说艾米，当她提供这样的帮助时，我们不能发号施令。

‘It’s always so. Amy has all the fun and I have all the work. It isn’t fair, oh, it isn’t fair!’ cried Jo passionately.
‘总是如此。艾米有所有的乐趣，我有所有的工作。这不公平，哦，这不公平！”乔热情地喊道。

‘I’m afraid it’s partly your own fault, dear. When Aunt spoke to me the other day, she regretted your blunt manners and too independent spirit, and here she writes, as if quoting something you had said—‘I planned at first to ask Jo, but as ‘favors burden her’, and she ‘hates French’, I think I won’t venture to invite her. Amy is more docile, will make a good companion for Flo, and receive gratefully any help the trip may give her.’
“恐怕这部分是你自己的错，亲爱的。那天姨妈跟我说话时，她对你的直率态度和过于独立的精神感到遗憾，她在这里写道，仿佛引用了你说过的话——“我本来打算问乔，但因为‘恩惠给她带来了负担’，而且她“讨厌法语”，我想我不会冒险邀请她。艾米更加温顺，会成为弗洛的好伴侣，并感激地接受这次旅行可能给她的任何帮助。

‘Oh, my tongue, my abominable tongue! Why can’t I learn to keep it quiet?’ groaned Jo, remembering words which had been her undoing. When she had heard the explanation of the quoted phrases, Mrs. March said sorrowfully...
‘哦，我的舌头，我可恶的舌头！为什么我就不能学会保持安静呢？”乔呻吟着，想起那些毁了她的话。当马奇夫人听完引文的解释后，悲伤地说……

‘I wish you could have gone, but there is no hope of it this time, so try to bear it cheerfully, and don’t sadden Amy’s pleasure by reproaches or regrets.’
“我希望你能走，但这次没希望了，所以尽量愉快地忍受吧，不要因为责备或遗憾而让艾米的快乐难过。”

‘I’ll try,’ said Jo, winking hard as she knelt down to pick up the basket she had joyfully upset. ‘I’ll take a leaf out of her book, and try not only to seem glad, but to be so, and not grudge her one minute of happiness. But it won’t be easy, for it is a dreadful disappointment.’ And poor Jo bedewed the little fat pincushion she held with several very bitter tears. ‘Jo, dear, I’m very selfish, but I couldn’t spare you, and I’m glad you are not going quite yet,’ whispered Beth, embracing her, basket and all, with such a clinging touch and loving face that Jo felt comforted in spite of the sharp regret that made her want to box her own ears, and humbly beg Aunt Carrol to burden her with this favor, and see how gratefully she would bear it.
“我会尽力的，”乔说，一边跪下捡起她高兴地打翻的篮子，一边用力眨着眼睛。 “我会效仿她的做法，不仅努力让自己看起来很高兴，而且要真正做到这一点，不吝惜她一分钟的幸福。但这并不容易，因为这是一种可怕的失望。”可怜的乔在她拿着的小胖针垫上沾满了几滴非常痛苦的眼泪。 “乔，亲爱的，我很自私，但我不能放过你，我很高兴你还没有走，”贝丝低声说道，拥抱着她，连篮子和所有的东西都抱住了，脸上充满了爱意。乔感到很安慰，尽管强烈的悔恨让她想打自己的耳朵，并谦卑地恳求卡罗尔姨妈帮她负担这个忙，看看她会多么感激地接受它。

By the time Amy came in, Jo was able to take her part in the family jubilation, not quite as heartily as usual, perhaps, but without repinings at Amy’s good fortune. The young lady herself received the news as tidings of great joy, went about in a solemn sort of rapture, and began to sort her colors and pack her pencils that evening, leaving such trifles as clothes, money, and passports to those less absorbed in visions of art than herself.
艾米进来的时候，乔已经能够参加家庭的庆祝活动了，也许不像平时那么热情，但也没有抱怨艾米的好运气。这位年轻的女士本人收到了这个消息，感到非常高兴，带着一种庄严的狂喜四处走动，那天晚上开始整理她的颜色并收拾她的铅笔，把诸如衣服，金钱和护照之类的小东西留给了那些不那么专注的人。对艺术的憧憬胜过她自己。

‘It isn’t a mere pleasure trip to me, girls,’ she said impressively, as she scraped her best palette. ‘It will decide my career, for if I have any genius, I shall find it out in Rome, and will do something to prove it.’
“这对我来说不仅仅是一次快乐的旅行，女孩们，”她一边刮着她最好的调色板，一边令人印象深刻地说。 “这将决定我的职业生涯，因为如果我有任何天才，我会在罗马发现它，并会做一些事情来证明它。”

‘Suppose you haven’t?’ said Jo, sewing away, with red eyes, at the new collars which were to be handed over to Amy.
“如果你没有呢？”乔红着眼睛说，一边缝着要交给艾米的新衣领。

‘Then I shall come home and teach drawing for my living,’ replied the aspirant for fame, with philosophic composure. But she made a wry face at the prospect, and scratched away at her palette as if bent on vigorous measures before she gave up her hopes.
“那我就回家，以教画为生。”这位追求名誉的人带着哲学般的镇定回答道。但她对这个前景做了个苦脸，在放弃希望之前，她把调色板刮掉了，仿佛决心采取有力的措施。

‘No, you won’t. You hate hard work, and you’ll marry some rich man, and come home to sit in the lap of luxury all your days,’ said Jo.
‘不，你不会的。你讨厌辛苦的工作，你会嫁给一个有钱人，然后回家过上奢侈的生活。”乔说。

‘Your predictions sometimes come to pass, but I don’t believe that one will. I’m sure I wish it would, for if I can’t be an artist myself, I should like to be able to help those who are,’ said Amy, smiling, as if the part of Lady Bountiful would suit her better than that of a poor drawing teacher.
“你的预测有时会实现，但我不相信会发生。 “我确信我希望如此，因为如果我自己不能成为一名艺术家，我希望能够帮助那些成为艺术家的人，”艾米微笑着说道，好像邦蒂弗夫人的角色比扮演艺术家的角色更适合她。一个贫穷的绘画老师的经历。

‘Hum!’ said Jo, with a sigh. ‘If you wish it you’ll have it, for your wishes are always granted—mine never.’
“哼！”乔叹了口气说。 “如果你愿意，你就会得到它，因为你的愿望总是会实现，而我的愿望却永远不会实现。”

‘Would you like to go?’ asked Amy, thoughtfully patting her nose with her knife.
“你想去吗？”艾米问道，若有所思地用刀拍着鼻子。

‘Rather!’
'相当！'

‘Well, in a year or two I’ll send for you, and we’ll dig in the Forum for relics, and carry out all the plans we’ve made so many times.’
“好吧，一两年后我会派人去接你，我们会在论坛中挖掘遗迹，并执行我们多次制定的所有计划。”

‘Thank you. I’ll remind you of your promise when that joyful day comes, if it ever does,’ returned Jo, accepting the vague but magnificent offer as gratefully as she could. ‘There was not much time for preparation, and the house was in a ferment till Amy was off. Jo bore up very well till the last flutter of blue ribbon vanished, when she retired to her refuge, the garret, and cried till she couldn’t cry any more. Amy likewise bore up stoutly till the steamer sailed. Then just as the gangway was about to be withdrawn, it suddenly came over her that a whole ocean was soon to roll between her and those who loved her best, and she clung to Laurie, the last lingerer, saying with a sob...
'谢谢。当那个快乐的日子到来时，如果真的有的话，我会提醒你你的承诺。”乔回答道，她尽可能感激地接受了这个含糊但宏伟的提议。 “准备时间不多，家里一直在发酵，直到艾米离开。乔表现得很好，直到最后那条蓝丝带消失了，她才回到她的避难所——阁楼，哭到再也哭不出来。艾米同样坚强地坚持着，直到轮船起航。就在舷梯即将撤回时，她突然意识到，她和那些最爱她的人之间很快就会翻滚一片海洋，她紧紧抓住最后一个徘徊的劳里，抽泣着说……

‘Oh, take care of them for me, and if anything should happen... ‘
“哦，帮我照顾他们，万一发生什么事情……”

‘I will, dear, I will, and if anything happens, I’ll come and comfort you,’ whispered Laurie, little dreaming that he would be called upon to keep his word.
“我会的，亲爱的，我会的，如果发生什么事，我会来安慰你，”劳里低声说道，没想到他会被要求遵守诺言。

So Amy sailed away to find the Old World, which is always new and beautiful to young eyes, while her father and friend watched her from the shore, fervently hoping that none but gentle fortunes would befall the happy-hearted girl, who waved her hand to them till they could see nothing but the summer sunshine dazzling on the sea.
于是，艾米扬帆远航，去寻找旧世界，对于年轻人来说，那里总是新鲜而美丽，而她的父亲和朋友则在岸边看着她，热切地希望除了温柔的好运之外，不会降临在这个快乐的女孩身上，她向她挥了挥手。直到他们什么也看不见，除了夏日的阳光照耀在海面上。

CHAPTER THIRTY-ONE
第三十一章

London
伦敦

Dearest People, Here I really sit at a front window of the Bath Hotel, Piccadilly. It’s not a fashionable place, but Uncle stopped here years ago, and won’t go anywhere else. However, we don’t mean to stay long, so it’s no great matter. Oh, I can’t begin to tell you how I enjoy it all! I never can, so I’ll only give you bits out of my notebook, for I’ve done nothing but sketch and scribble since I started.
最亲爱的人们，我真的坐在皮卡迪利巴斯酒店的前窗前。这不是一个时尚的地方，但叔叔几年前就停在这里，不会去其他地方。不过，我们不想久留，所以也没什么大不了的。哦，我无法告诉你我是多么享受这一切！我永远做不到，所以我只能给你我笔记本上的一些内容，因为自从我开始以来，我除了素描和涂鸦之外什么也没做。

I sent a line from Halifax, when I felt pretty miserable, but after that I got on delightfully, seldom ill, on deck all day, with plenty of pleasant people to amuse me. Everyone was very kind to me, especially the officers. Don’t laugh, Jo, gentlemen really are very necessary aboard ship, to hold on to, or to wait upon one, and as they have nothing to do, it’s a mercy to make them useful, otherwise they would smoke themselves to death, I’m afraid.
当我感到非常痛苦时，我从哈利法克斯发了一条信息，但此后我过得很愉快，很少生病，一整天都在甲板上，有很多令人愉快的人来逗我。每个人都对我很好，尤其是官员。别笑，乔，先生们在船上确实非常必要，要抓住或侍候一个人，而且由于他们无所事事，所以让他们有用是一种仁慈，否则他们会抽烟死的，我耽心。

Aunt and Flo were poorly all the way, and liked to be let alone, so when I had done what I could for them, I went and enjoyed myself. Such walks on deck, such sunsets, such splendid air and waves! It was almost as exciting as riding a fast horse, when we went rushing on so grandly. I wish Beth could have come, it would have done her so much good. As for Jo, she would have gone up and sat on the maintop jib, or whatever the high thing is called, made friends with the engineers, and tooted on the captain’s speaking trumpet, she’d have been in such a state of rapture.
阿姨和弗洛一路上身体不好，喜欢独处，所以当我为她们做了我能做的事后，我就去玩得很开心了。如此在甲板上散步，如此日落，如此美妙的空气和海浪！当我们如此堂皇地冲去时，几乎就像骑着快马一样令人兴奋。我希望贝丝能够来，这会对她有很多好处。至于乔，她会上去坐在主桅三角帆上，或者不管叫什么高高在上的东西，和工程师们交朋友，吹响船长的喇叭，她会处于一种欣喜若狂的状态。

It was all heavenly, but I was glad to see the Irish coast, and found it very lovely, so green and sunny, with brown cabins here and there, ruins on some of the hills, and gentlemen’s countryseats in the valleys, with deer feeding in the parks. It was early in the morning, but I didn’t regret getting up to see it, for the bay was full of little boats, the shore so picturesque, and a rosy sky overhead. I never shall forget it.
一切就像天堂一样，但我很高兴看到爱尔兰海岸，发现它非常可爱，如此绿色和阳光明媚，到处都是棕色的小屋，一些山上的废墟，山谷里绅士的乡村别墅，有鹿在喂食在公园里。虽然是一大早，但我并不后悔起床去看，因为海湾里停满了小船，海岸如此美丽，头顶上是玫瑰色的天空。我永远不会忘记它。

At Queenstown on of my new acquaintances left us, Mr. Lennox, and when I said something about the Lakes of Killarney, he sighed and and, with a look at me...
在皇后镇，我的一位新朋友离开了我们，伦诺克斯先生，当我谈到基拉尼湖时，他叹了口气，然后看了我一眼……

‘Oh, have you e’er heard of Kate Kearney?
“哦，你听说过凯特·科尔尼吗？

She lives on the banks of Killarney;
她住在基拉尼的岸边；

From the glance of her eye,
从她的眼神里，

Shun danger and fly,
避险飞翔，

For fatal’s the glance of Kate Kearney.’
凯特·卡尼的目光是致命的。

Wasn’t that nonsensical?
这不是无稽之谈吗？

We only stopped at Liverpool a few hours. It’s a dirty, noisy place, and I was glad to leave it. Uncle rushed out and bought a pair of dogskin gloves, some ugly, thick shoes, and an umbrella, and got shaved ‘a la mutton chop, the first thing. Then he flattered himself that he looked like a true Briton, but the first time he had the mud cleaned off his shoes, the little bootblack knew that an American stood in them, and said, with a grin, ‘There yer har, sir. I’ve given ‘em the latest Yankee shine.’ It amused Uncle immensely. Oh, I must tell you what that absurd Lennox did! He got his friend Ward, who came on with us, to order a bouquet for me, and the first thing I saw in my room was a lovely one, with ‘Robert Lennox’s compliments,’ on the card. Wasn’t that fun, girls? I like traveling.
我们只在利物浦停留了几个小时。这是一个又脏又吵的地方，我很高兴离开它。叔叔冲出去买了一双狗皮手套，一双又丑又厚的鞋子，还有一把雨伞，第一件事就是剃了个羊排。然后他自以为自己看起来像个真正的英国人，但当他第一次把鞋子上的泥清理干净时，小擦鞋工就知道鞋里站着一个美国人，于是笑着说：“哈，先生。”我给了他们最新的洋基队光芒。这让叔叔非常开心。哦，我必须告诉你那个荒唐的伦诺克斯做了什么！他让和我们一起来的朋友沃德为我订了一束花，我在房间里看到的第一件事就是一束可爱的花，卡片上写着“罗伯特·伦诺克斯的赞美”。女孩们，这不是很有趣吗？我喜欢旅游。

I never shall get to London if I don’t hurry. The trip was like riding through a long picture gallery, full of lovely landscapes. The farmhouses were my delight, with thatched roofs, ivy up to the eaves, latticed windows, and stout women with rosy children at the doors. The very cattle looked more tranquil than ours, as they stood knee-deep in clover, and the hens had a contented cluck, as if they never got nervous like Yankee biddies. Such perfect color I never saw, the grass so green, sky so blue, grain so yellow, woods so dark, I was in a rapture all the way. So was Flo, and we kept bouncing from one side to the other, trying to see everything while we were whisking along at the rate of sixty miles an hour. Aunt was tired and went to sleep, but Uncle read his guidebook, and wouldn’t be astonished at anything. This is the way we went on. Amy, flying up—‘Oh, that must be Kenilworth, that gray place among the trees!’ Flo, darting to my window—‘How sweet! We must go there sometime, won’t we Papa?’ Uncle, calmly admiring his boots—‘No, my dear, not unless you want beer, that’s a brewery.’
如果我不抓紧时间，我永远也到不了伦敦。这次旅行就像骑行穿过一个长长的画廊，充满了美丽的风景。农舍是我的最爱，茅草屋顶，常春藤长满屋檐，格子窗，门口站着粗壮的妇女和红润的孩子。这些牛看起来比我们的更安静，因为它们站在齐膝深的三叶草中，母鸡发出满足的咯咯声，好像它们从来没有像北方佬那样紧张。如此完美的色彩是我从未见过的，草那么绿，天那么蓝，谷物那么黄，树林那么黑，一路上我心花怒放。弗洛也是如此，我们不断地从一侧跳到另一侧，试图在以每小时六十英里的速度快速行驶时看到一切。阿姨累了就睡了，但叔叔看了他的旅游指南，不会对任何事情感到惊讶。我们就是这样继续走下去的。艾米，飞了起来——“哦，那一定是凯尼尔沃斯，树林中那个灰色的地方！”弗洛，冲到我的窗前——“多可爱啊！爸爸，我们一定要找个时间去那里，不是吗？”叔叔平静地欣赏着他的靴子——“不，亲爱的，除非你想喝啤酒，否则不行，那是一家啤酒厂。”

A pause—then Flo cried out, ‘Bless me, there’s a gallows and a man going up.’ ‘Where, where?’ shrieks Amy, staring out at two tall posts with a crossbeam and some dangling chains. ‘A colliery,’ remarks Uncle, with a twinkle of the eye. ‘Here’s a lovely flock of lambs all lying down,’ says Amy. ‘See, Papa, aren’t they pretty?’ added Flo sentimentally. ‘Geese, young ladies,’ returns Uncle, in a tone that keeps us quiet till Flo settles down to enjoy the FLIRTATIONS OF CAPTAIN CAVENDISH, and I have the scenery all to myself.
停顿了一下，然后弗洛喊道，“上帝保佑我，有一个绞刑架，还有一个人正在上升。”“哪里，哪里？”艾米尖叫道，她盯着两根高高的柱子，上面有横梁和一些悬垂的铁链。 “一个煤矿，”叔叔眨了眨眼睛说道。 “这是一群可爱的小羊羔，都躺着，”艾米说。 “瞧，爸爸，它们漂亮吗？”弗洛感伤地补充道。 “哎呀，年轻的女士们，”叔叔回答道，他的语气让我们保持安静，直到弗洛坐下来欣赏卡文迪什船长的调情，而我则独享风景。

Of course it rained when we got to London, and there was nothing to be seen but fog and umbrellas. We rested, unpacked, and shopped a little between the showers. Aunt Mary got me some new things, for I came off in such a hurry I wasn’t half ready. A white hat and blue feather, a muslin dress to match, and the loveliest mantle you ever saw. Shopping in Regent Street is perfectly splendid. Things seem so cheap, nice ribbons only sixpence a yard. I laid in a stock, but shall get my gloves in Paris. Doesn’t that sound sort of elegant and rich?
当然，我们到达伦敦时下雨了，除了雾和雨伞什么也看不见。我们休息了一下，打开行李，在阵雨间隙买了一些东西。玛丽阿姨给我买了一些新东西，因为我走得太匆忙，还没准备好。一顶白色的帽子和蓝色的羽毛，一件相配的平纹细布连衣裙，还有你见过的最可爱的斗篷。摄政街的购物非常精彩。东西看起来很便宜，漂亮的丝带只要六便士一码。我存有库存，但要在巴黎拿到手套。这听起来是不是很优雅、很丰富？

Flo and I, for the fun of it, ordered a hansom cab, while Aunt and Uncle were out, and went for a drive, though we learned afterward that it wasn’t the thing for young ladies to ride in them alone. It was so droll! For when we were shut in by the wooden apron, the man drove so fast that Flo was frightened, and told me to stop him. but he was up outside behind somewhere, and I couldn’t get at him. He didn’t hear me call, nor see me flap my parasol in front, and there we were, quite helpless, rattling away, and whirling around corners at a breakneck pace. At last, in my despair, I saw a little door in the roof, and on poking it open, a red eye appeared, and a beery voice said...
弗洛和我为了好玩，趁姨妈和叔叔出去的时候订了一辆双轮马车，然后去兜风，不过后来我们才知道，年轻女士不适合单独乘坐。太滑稽了！因为当我们被木围裙困住时，那个人开得太快了，弗洛被吓坏了，让我阻止他。但他在外面某个地方，我无法接近他。他没有听到我的叫声，也没有看到我在前面拍打阳伞，我们就在那里，非常无助，嘎嘎作响，以惊人的速度在拐角处旋转。最后，在绝望中，我看到了屋顶上有一扇小门，一推开，出现了一只红眼睛，一个啤酒般的声音说道……

‘Now, then, mum?’
“现在，那么，妈妈？”

I gave my order as soberly as I could, and slamming down the door, with an ‘Aye, aye, mum,’ the man made his horse walk, as if going to a funeral. I poked again and said, ‘A little faster,’ then off he went, helter-skelter as before, and we resigned ourselves to our fate.
我尽可能清醒地下达了命令，然后砰地关上门，“是，是，妈妈”，那人让他的马走起来，就像去参加葬礼一样。我又戳了一下，说：“快一点。”然后他就走了，像以前一样狼狈不堪，我们听天由命了。

Today was fair, and we went to Hyde Park, close by, for we are more aristocratic than we look. The Duke of Devonshire lives near. I often see his footmen lounging at the back gate, and the Duke of Wellington’s house is not far off. Such sights as I saw, my dear! It was as good as Punch, for there were fat dowagers rolling about in their red and yellow coaches, with gorgeous Jeameses in silk stockings and velvet coats, up behind, and powdered coachmen in front. Smart maids, with the rosiest children I ever saw, handsome girls, looking half asleep, dandies in queer English hats and lavender kids lounging about, and tall soldiers, in short red jackets and muffin caps stuck on one side, looking so funny I longed to sketch them.
今天天气晴朗，我们去了附近的海德公园，因为我们比看上去更有贵族气息。德文郡公爵就住在附近。我经常看到他的仆人在后门闲逛，惠灵顿公爵的宅邸就在不远处。我亲眼所见的景象，亲爱的！这和潘趣酒一样精彩，因为胖贵妇在红黄相间的马车里滚来滚去，后面是穿着丝袜和天鹅绒大衣的华丽詹姆士，前面是抹了粉的车夫。聪明的女仆，带着我见过的最红润的孩子，英俊的女孩，看起来半睡半醒，戴着奇怪的英国帽子的花花公子和闲逛的淡紫色孩子，还有高大的士兵，穿着红色短夹克，松饼帽粘在一侧，看起来很滑稽，我渴望绘制它们的草图。

Rotten Row means ‘Route de Roi’, or the king’s way, but now it’s more like a riding school than anything else. The horses are splendid, and the men, especially the grooms, ride well, but the women are stiff, and bounce, which isn’t according to our rules. I longed to show them a tearing American gallop, for they trotted solemnly up and down, in their scant habits and high hats, looking like the women in a toy Noah’s Ark. Everyone rides—old men, stout ladies, little children— and the young folks do a deal of flirting here, I say a pair exchange rose buds, for it’s the thing to wear one in the button-hole, and I thought it rather a nice little idea.
Rotten Row 的意思是“Route de Roi”，即国王之路，但现在它更像是一所骑术学校。马匹很出色，男人们，尤其是马夫，骑得很好，但女人们却僵硬，弹跳，这不符合我们的规则。我渴望向他们展示一场催人泪下的美国驰骋，因为他们穿着简陋的衣服，戴着高高的帽子，庄严地来回小跑，看起来就像玩具诺亚方舟里的女人。每个人都骑着——老人、粗壮的女士、小孩——而年轻人在这里经常调情，我说一对交换玫瑰花蕾，因为把玫瑰花蕾戴在纽扣孔里是件好事，我认为这是一个很好的小主意。

In the P.M. to Westminster Abbey, but don’t expect me to describe it, that’s impossible, so I’ll only say it was sublime! This evening we are going to see Fechter, which will be an appropriate end to the happiest day of my life.
在下午。威斯敏斯特教堂，但别指望我描述它，那是不可能的，所以我只能说它是崇高的！今晚我们要去见费希特，这将是我一生中最快乐的一天的适当结束。

It’s very late, but I can’t let my letter go in the morning without telling you what happened last evening. Who do you think came in, as we were at tea? Laurie’s English friends, Fred and Frank Vaughn! I was so surprised, for I shouldn’t have known them but for the cards. both are tall fellows with whiskers, Fred handsome in the English style, and Frank much better, for he only limps slightly, and uses no crutches. They had heard from Laurie where we were to be, and came to ask us to their house, but Uncle won’t go, so we shall return the call, and see them as we can. They went to the theater with us, and we did have such a good time, for Frank devoted himself to Flo, and Fred and I talked over past, present, and future fun as if we had know each other all our days. Tell Beth Frank asked for her, and was sorry to hear of her ill health. Fred laughed when I spoke of Jo, and sent his ‘respectful compliments to the big hat’. Neither of them had forgotten Camp Laurence, or the fun we had there. What ages ago it seems, doesn’t it?
虽然已经很晚了，但我不能在早上把信寄出去而不告诉你昨晚发生的事情。当我们喝茶的时候，你认为谁进来了？劳里的英国朋友弗雷德和弗兰克·沃恩！我很惊讶，因为如果不是卡片，我根本不应该认识他们。两人都是高个子，留着胡须，弗雷德英式英俊，弗兰克则好得多，因为他只是稍微一瘸一拐，而且不用拐杖。他们从劳里那里听说了我们要去的地方，并来邀请我们去他们家，但叔叔不肯去，所以我们会回电话，并尽可能去见他们。他们和我们一起去看戏，我们确实玩得很开心，因为弗兰克全身心地投入到弗洛身上，而弗雷德和我谈论过去、现在和未来的乐趣，就好像我们一直以来都认识一样。告诉贝丝·弗兰克 (Tell Beth Frank) 来找她，得知她健康状况不佳，感到很遗憾。当我谈到乔时，弗雷德笑了，并向“大帽子致以崇高的敬意”。他们都没有忘记劳伦斯营，也没有忘记我们在那里度过的乐趣。看起来已经是多少年前的事了，不是吗？

Aunt is tapping on the wall for the third time, so I must stop. I really feel like a dissipated London fine lady, writing here so late, with my room full of pretty things, and my head a jumble of parks, theaters, new gowns, and gallant creatures who say ‘Ah!’ and twirl their blond mustaches with the true English lordliness. I long to see you all, and in spite of my nonsense am, as ever, your loving...
阿姨已经第三次敲墙了，我必须停下来了。我真的感觉自己像一位放荡的伦敦贵妇，这么晚了还在这儿写作，我的房间里摆满了漂亮的东西，我的脑子里堆满了公园、剧院、新礼服，还有那些说“啊！”并捻着金色小胡子的英勇生物。具有真正的英国贵族气质。我渴望见到你们大家，尽管我胡言乱语，但我还是一如既往地爱着你们……

AMY
艾米

PARIS
巴黎

Dear girls,
亲爱的女孩们，

In my last I told you about our London visit, how kind the Vaughns were, and what pleasant parties they made for us. I enjoyed the trips to Hampton Court and the Kensington Museum more than anything else, for at Hampton I saw Raphael’s cartoons, and at the Museum, rooms full of pictures by Turner, Lawrence, Reynolds, Hogarth, and the other great creatures. The day in Richmond Park was charming, for we had a regular English picnic, and I had more splendid oaks and groups of deer than I could copy, also heard a nightingale, and saw larks go up. We ‘did’ London to our heart’s content, thanks to Fred and Frank, and were sorry to go away, for though English people are slow to take you in, when they once make up their minds to do it they cannot be outdone in hospitality, I think. The Vaughns hope to meet us in Rome next winter, and I shall be dreadfully disappointed if they don’t, for Grace and I are great friends, and the boys very nice fellows, especially Fred.
在上一篇文章中，我向您讲述了我们的伦敦之行，沃恩一家是多么友善，以及他们为我们举办了多么愉快的聚会。我最喜欢去汉普顿宫和肯辛顿博物馆，因为在汉普顿我看到了拉斐尔的漫画，在博物馆，房间里摆满了特纳、劳伦斯、雷诺兹、霍加斯和其他伟大人物的画作。里士满公园的这一天很迷人，因为我们进行了常规的英式野餐，我看到了更多我无法模仿的壮丽橡树和成群的鹿，还听到了夜莺的叫声，看到了百灵鸟的飞翔。多亏了弗雷德和弗兰克，我们在伦敦“玩得很开心”，很遗憾要离开，因为尽管英国人接受你的速度很慢，但一旦他们下定决心要这么做，他们的热情好客就不甘落后。 ， 我认为。沃恩一家希望明年冬天在罗马见到我们，如果他们不这样做，我会非常失望，因为格蕾丝和我是好朋友，男孩们都是很好的朋友，尤其是弗雷德。

Well, we were hardly settled here, when he turned up again, saying he had come for a holiday, and was going to Switzerland. Aunt looked sober at first, but he was so cool about it she couldn’t say a word. And now we get on nicely, and are very glad he came, for he speaks French like a native, and I don’t know what we should do without him. Uncle doesn’t know ten words, and insists on talking English very loud, as if it would make people understand him. Aunt’s pronunciation is old-fashioned, and Flo and I, though we flattered ourselves that we knew a good deal, find we don’t, and are very grateful to have Fred do the ‘parley vooing’, as Uncle calls it.
好吧，我们刚在这里安顿下来，他又出现了，说他是来度假的，要去瑞士。姨妈一开始看上去很清醒，但他却很冷静，她一句话也说不出来。现在我们相处得很好，很高兴他来了，因为他说法语就像当地人一样，我不知道没有他我们该怎么办。叔叔不认识十个单词，却坚持说英语很大声，好像这样人们就能听懂他的话。阿姨的发音很老式，而弗洛和我，尽管我们自以为懂得很多，但发现我们并不了解，并且非常感激弗雷德做了叔叔所说的“谈判中的嘘声”。

Such delightful times as we are having! Sight-seeing from morning till night, stopping for nice lunches in the gay cafes, and meeting with all sorts of droll adventures. Rainy days I spend in the Louvre, revelling in pictures. Jo would turn up her naughty nose at some of the finest, because she has no soul for art, but I have, and I’m cultivation eye and taste as fast as I can. She would like the relics of great people better, for I’ve seen her Napoleon’s cocked hat and gray coat, his baby’s cradle and his old toothbrush, also Marie Antoinette’s little shoe, the ring of Saint Denis, Charlemagne’s sword, and many other interesting things. I’ll talk for hours about them when I come, but haven’t time to write.
我们正在经历多么愉快的时光啊！从早到晚观光，在同性恋咖啡馆停下来享用美味的午餐，并遇到各种滑稽的冒险。雨天我在卢浮宫度过，陶醉在画作中。乔会对一些最优秀的作品嗤之以鼻，因为她没有艺术灵魂，但我有，而且我正在尽快培养眼睛和品味。她更喜欢伟人的遗物，因为我见过她的拿破仑的三角帽和灰色外套，他婴儿的摇篮和他的旧牙刷，还有玛丽·安托瓦内特的小鞋子，圣但尼的戒指，查理曼的剑，还有许多其他有趣的东西事物。当我来的时候，我会花几个小时谈论它们，但没有时间写。

The Palais Royale is a heavenly place, so full of bijouterie and lovely things that I’m nearly distracted because I can’t buy them. Fred wanted to get me some, but of course I didn’t allow it. Then the Bois and Champs Elysees are tres magnifique. I’ve seen the imperial family several times, the emperor an ugly, hard-looking man, the empress pale and pretty, but dressed in bad taste, I thought—purple dress, green hat, and yellow gloves. Little Nap is a handsome boy, who sits chatting to his tutor, and kissed his hand to the people as he passes in his four-horse barouche, with postilions in red satin jackets and a mounted guard before and behind.
皇宫是一个天堂般的地方，充满了珠宝和可爱的东西，我几乎心烦意乱，因为我买不到它们。弗雷德想给我买一些，但我当然不允许。然后，森林公园和香榭丽舍大街非常壮丽。我见过皇室好几次，皇帝是个丑陋、难看的人，皇后面色苍白，漂亮，但我觉得穿得不太雅致——紫色的衣服，绿色的帽子，黄色的手套。小纳普是一个英俊的男孩，他坐在那儿和他的导师聊天，当他开着他的四马马车经过时，他向人们亲吻他的手，身后有穿着红色缎子夹克的后勤人员，前后都有骑兵卫兵。

We often walk in the Tuileries Gardens, for they are lovely, though the antique Luxembourg Gardens suit me better. Pere la Chaise is very curious, for many of the tombs are like small rooms, and looking in, one sees a table, with images or pictures of the dead, and chairs for the mourners to sit in when they come to lament. That is so Frenchy.
我们经常在杜乐丽花园散步，因为它们很漂亮，不过古色古香的卢森堡花园更适合我。谢斯神父很好奇，因为很多坟墓都像小房间一样，往里看，会看到一张桌子，上面有死者的图像或照片，还有一些椅子，供哀悼者前来哀悼时坐。那太法国味了。

Our rooms are on the Rue de Rivoli, and sitting on the balcony, we look up and down the long, brilliant street. It is so pleasant that we spend our evenings talking there when too tired with our day’s work to go out. Fred is very entertaining, and is altogether the most agreeable young man I ever knew— except Laurie, whose manners are more charming. I wish Fred was dark, for I don’t fancy light men, however, the Vaughns are very rich and come of an excellent family, so I won’t find fault with their yellow hair, as my own is yellower.
我们的房间位于里沃利街，坐在阳台上，我们上下眺望那条漫长而辉煌的街道。当我们白天的工作太累而无法出去时，我们晚上就在那里聊天，真是太愉快了。弗雷德非常有趣，是我所认识的最令人愉快的年轻人——除了劳里，他的举止更迷人。我希望弗雷德是深色的，因为我不喜欢浅色男人，然而，沃恩一家非常富有，出身优越，所以我不会挑剔他们的黄头发，因为我自己的头发更黄。

Next week we are off to Germany and Switzerland, and as we shall travel fast, I shall only be able to give you hasty letters. I keep my diary, and try to ‘remember correctly and describe clearly all that I see and admire’, as Father advised. It is good practice for me, and with my sketchbook will give you a better idea of my tour than these scribbles.
下周我们将前往德国和瑞士，由于我们的行程很快，我只能匆忙给您写信。正如父亲所建议的那样，我记日记，并尝试“正确记住并清楚地描述我所看到和欣赏的一切”。这对我来说是很好的练习，与这些涂鸦相比，我的素描本会让你更好地了解我的旅行。

Adieu, I embrace you tenderly.
再见，我温柔地拥抱你。

VOTRE AMIE
沃特阿米

HEIDELBERG
海德堡

My dear Mamma,
我亲爱的妈妈，

Having a quiet hour before we leave for Berne, I’ll try to tell you what has happened, for some of it is very important, as you will see.
在我们出发前往伯尔尼之前有一个安静的小时，我将尽力告诉您发生了什么事，因为正如您将看到的，其中一些非常重要。

The sail up the Rhine was perfect, and I just sat and enjoyed it with all my might. Get Father’s old guidebooks and read about it. I haven’t words beautiful enough to describe it. At Coblenz we had a lovely time, for some students from Bonn, with whom Fred got acquainted on the boat, gave us a serenade. It was a moonlight night, and about one o’clock Flo and I were waked by the most delicious music under our windows. We flew up, and hid behind the curtains, but sly peeps showed us Fred and the students singing away down below. It was the most romantic thing I ever saw—the river, the bridge of boats, the great fortress opposite, moonlight everywhere, and music fit to melt a heart of stone.
莱茵河上的航行非常完美，我只是坐下来尽我所能地享受它。拿到父亲的旧指南并阅读它。我没有足够美丽的词语来形容它。在科布伦茨，我们度过了一段愉快的时光，弗雷德在船上认识的一些来自波恩的学生为我们演奏了一首小夜曲。那是一个月夜，大约一点钟的时候，弗洛和我被窗下最美妙的音乐吵醒了。我们飞了起来，躲在窗帘后面，但狡猾的窥视者向我们展示了弗雷德和学生们在下面唱歌。这是我见过的最浪漫的事情——河流、船桥、对面的巨大堡垒、到处都是月光、还有足以融化铁石心肠的音乐。

When they were done we threw down some flowers, and saw them scramble for them, kiss their hands to the invisible ladies, and go laughing away, to smoke and drink beer, I suppose. Next morning Fred showed me one of the crumpled flowers in his vest pocket, and looked very sentimental. I laughed at him, and said I didn’t throw it, but Flo, which seemed to disgust him, for he tossed it out of the window, and turned sensible again. I’m afraid I’m going to have trouble with that boy, it begins to look like it.
当他们完成后，我们扔下一些花，看到他们争先恐后地去拿花，向看不见的女士亲吻他们的手，然后笑着走开，我想是抽烟喝啤酒。第二天早上，弗雷德给我看了他背心口袋里一朵皱巴巴的花，看上去非常感伤。我嘲笑他，说不是我扔的，而是弗洛，这似乎让他感到恶心，因为他把它扔出了窗外，然后又恢复理智了。我担心我会和那个男孩发生麻烦，看起来就是这样。

The baths at Nassau were very gay, so was Baden-Baden, where Fred lost some money, and I scolded him. He needs someone to look after him when Frank is not with him. Kate said once she hoped he’d marry soon, and I quite agree with her that it would be well for him. Frankfurt was delightful. I saw Goeth’s house, Schiller’s statue, and Dannecker’s famous Ariadne. It was very lovely, but I should have enjoyed it more if I had known the story better. I didn’t like to ask, as everyone knew it or pretended they did. I wish Jo would tell me all about it. I ought to have read more, for I find I don’t know anything, and it mortifies me.
拿骚的浴场很热闹，巴登巴登也很热闹，弗雷德在那里赔了一些钱，我骂了他。当弗兰克不在他身边时，他需要有人照顾他。凯特曾经说过，她希望他尽快结婚，我非常同意她的观点，这对他来说是件好事。法兰克福令人愉快。我看到了歌特的房子，席勒的雕像，还有丹内克著名的阿里阿德涅。它非常可爱，但如果我更了解这个故事，我应该会更喜欢它。我不想问，因为每个人都知道或假装知道。我希望乔能告诉我这一切。我应该读更多的书，因为我发现我什么都不知道，这让我感到羞愧。

Now comes the serious part, for it happened here, and Fred has just gone. He has been so kind and jolly that we all got quite fond of him. I never thought of anything but a traveling friendship till the serenade night. Since then I’ve begun to feel that the moonlight walks, balcony talks, and daily adventures were something more to him than fun. I haven’t flirted, Mother, truly, but remembered what you said to me, and have done my very best. I can’t help it if people like me. I don’t try to make them, and it worries me if I don’t care for them, though Jo says I haven’t got any heart. Now I know Mother will shake her head, and the girls say, ‘Oh, the mercenary little wretch!’, but I’ve made up my mind, and if Fred asks me, I shall accept him, though I’m not madly in love. I like him, and we get on comfortably together. He is handsome, young, clever enough, and very rich—ever so much richer than the Laurences. I don’t think his family would object, and I should be very happy, for they are all kind, well-bred, generous people, and they like me. Fred, as the eldest twin, will have the estate, I suppose, and such a splendid one it is! A city house in a fashionable street, not so showy as our big houses, but twice as comfortable and full of solid luxury, such as English people believe in. I like it, for it’s genuine. I’ve seen the plate, the family jewels, the old servants, and pictures of the country place, with its park, great house, lovely grounds, and fine horses. Oh, it would be all I should ask! And I’d rather have it than any title such as girls snap up so readily, and find nothing behind. I may be mercenary, but I hate poverty, and don’t mean to bear it a minute longer than I can help. One of us must marry well. Meg didn’t, Jo won’t, Beth can’t yet, so I shall, and make everything okay all round. I wouldn’t marry a man I hated or despised. You may be sure of that, and though Fred is not my model hero, he does very well, and in time I should get fond enough of him if he was very fond of me, and let me do just as I liked. So I’ve been turning the matter over in my mind the last week, for it was impossible to help seeing that Fred liked me. He said nothing, but little things showed it. He never goes with Flo, always gets on my side of the carriage, table, or promenade, looks sentimental when we are alone, and frowns at anyone else who ventures to speak tome. Yesterday at dinner, when an Austrian officer stared at us and then said something to his friend, a rakish-looking baron, about ‘ein wonderschones Blondchen’, Fred looked as fierce as a lion, and cut his meat so savagely it nearly flew off his plate. He isn’t one of the cool, stiff Englishmen, but is rather peppery, for he has Scotch blood in him, as one might guess from his bonnie blue eyes.
现在重要的部分来了，因为事情就发生在这里，而弗雷德刚刚走了。他非常友善和快乐，我们都非常喜欢他。在小夜曲之夜之前，我除了旅行友谊之外什么也没想到。从那时起，我开始觉得月光下的散步、阳台上的谈话和日常的冒险对他来说不仅仅是乐趣。妈妈，我真的没有调情，但记住了您对我说的话，并已尽力而为。如果人们喜欢我，我也无能为力。我不会尝试做它们，如果我不关心它们，我会担心，尽管乔说我没有良心。现在我知道妈妈会摇头，而女孩们会说：“哦，这个唯利是图的小坏蛋！”但我已经下定决心，如果弗雷德问我，我就会接受他，尽管我并不疯狂恋爱。我喜欢他，我们在一起相处得很舒服。他英俊、年轻、足够聪明，而且非常富有——比劳伦斯一家富有得多。我想他的家人不会反对，我应该很高兴，因为他们都是善良、有教养、慷慨的人，而且他们喜欢我。我想，作为双胞胎中最年长的弗雷德，将拥有这座庄园，而且是一处非常漂亮的庄园！时尚街道上的一栋城市住宅，不像我们的大房子那么华丽，但舒适度是英国人所信仰的两倍，充满了坚实的奢华。我喜欢它，因为它是真实的。我见过盘子、家里的珠宝、老仆人，还有乡村的照片，有公园、大房子、美丽的庭院和好马。哦，这就是我所要问的！我宁愿拥有它，也不愿拥有任何头衔，比如女孩们如此轻易地抢购一空，却一无所获。我可能是个唯利是图的人，但我讨厌贫穷，而且我不想再多忍受一分钟。我们中的一个人必须嫁得好。 梅格没有，乔不会，贝丝还不能，所以我会的，让一切都好起来。我不会嫁给一个我讨厌或鄙视的男人。你可能确信这一点，虽然弗雷德不是我的模范英雄，但他做得很好，如果他很喜欢我，到时候我就会足够喜欢他，让我做我喜欢做的事。所以上周我一直在心里反复思考这件事，因为我情不自禁地发现弗雷德喜欢我。他什么也没说，但一些小事就表明了这一点。他从不和弗洛​​一起走，总是站在我这边的马车、桌子或散步道上，当我们单独在一起时，他看起来很感伤，对任何敢于和我说话的人都会皱眉。昨天晚餐时，当一位奥地利军官盯着我们看，然后对他的朋友，一位看上去很放荡的男爵说了一些关于“ein Wonderschones Blondchen”的事情时，弗雷德看起来像一头狮子一样凶猛，他野蛮地切肉，差点飞走他的盘子。他不是那种冷静、僵硬的英国人，而是相当热情，因为他身上流淌着苏格兰血统，人们可能会从他美丽的蓝眼睛中猜到这一点。

Well, last evening we went up to the castle about sunset, at least all of us but Fred, who was to meet us there after going to the Post Restante for letters. We had a charming time poking about the ruins, the vaults where the monster tun is, and the beautiful gardens made by the elector long ago for his English wife. I liked the great terrace best, for the view was divine, so while the rest went to see the rooms inside, I sat there trying to sketch the gray stone lion’s head on the wall, with scarlet woodbine sprays hanging round it. I felt as if I’d got into a romance, sitting there, watching the Meckar rolling through the valley, listening to the music of the Austrian band below, and waiting for my lover, like a real storybook girl. I had a feeling that something was going to happen and I was ready for it. I didn’t feel blushy or quakey, but quite cool and only a little excited.
嗯，昨晚日落时分，我们去了城堡，至少我们所有人都去了，除了弗雷德，他去雷斯坦特邮局取信后要在那里接我们。我们在废墟、怪物图恩所在的拱顶以及很久以前选帝侯为他的英国妻子建造的美丽花园度过了一段愉快的时光。我最喜欢那个大露台，因为景色很美，所以当其他人去看里面的房间时，我坐在那里试图在墙上画出灰色的石狮子头，周围挂着猩红色的苦藤喷雾。我感觉自己好像陷入了浪漫，坐在那里，看着梅卡河滚过山谷，听着下面奥地利乐队的音乐，等待着我的爱人，就像一个真正的故事书女孩。我有预感，有事要发生，我已经做好了准备。我没有感到脸红或颤抖，但很酷，只是有点兴奋。

By-and-by I heard Fred’s voice, and then he came hurrying through the great arch to find me. He looked so troubled that I forgot all about myself, and asked what the matter was. He said he’d just got a letter begging him to come home, for Frank was very ill. So he was going at once on the night train and only had time to say good-by. I was very sorry for him, and disappointed for myself, but only for a minute because he said, as he shook hands, and said it in a way that I could not mistake, ‘I shall soon come back, you won’t forget me, Amy?’
不久，我听到了弗雷德的声音，然后他匆匆穿过大拱门来找我。他看起来很困扰，我忘记了自己，问发生了什么事。他说他刚刚收到一封恳求他回家的信，因为弗兰克病得很重。于是，他立即乘夜车出发，只来得及道别。我为他感到非常难过，也为自己感到失望，但这只是一分钟，因为他在握手时说，并且以一种我不会弄错的方式说，“我很快就会回来，你不会忘记”我，艾米？

I didn’t promise, but I looked at him, and he seemed satisfied, and there was no time for anything but messages and good-byes, for he was off in an hour, and we all miss him very much. I know he wanted to speak, but I think, from something he once hinted, that he had promised his father not to do anything of the sort yet a while, for is is a rash boy, and the old gentleman dreads a foreign daughter-in-law. We shall soon meet in Rome, and then, if I don’t change my mind, I’ll say ‘Yes, thank you,’ when he says ‘Will you, please?’
我没有答应，但我看着他，他似乎很满意，除了发信息和告别之外没有时间做任何事情，因为他一个小时后就走了，我们都非常想念他。我知道他想说话，但我认为，从他曾经暗示过的事情来看，他已经答应过他的父亲暂时不要做这种事，因为他是个鲁莽的男孩，而老先生害怕一个外国女儿——姻亲。我们很快就会在罗马见面，然后，如果我不改变主意，当他说“你愿意吗？”时，我会说“是的，谢谢你”。

Of course this is all very private, but I wished you to know what was going on. Don’t be anxious about me, remember I am your ‘prudent Amy’, and be sure I will do nothing rashly. Send me as much advice as you like. I’ll use it if I can. I wish I could see you for a good talk, Marmee. Love and trust me.
当然，这都是非常私密的事情，但我希望你知道发生了什么事。别为我担心，记住我是你的‘谨慎的艾米’，确保我不会轻举妄动。给我尽可能多的建议。如果可以的话我会用它。我希望能见到你好好谈谈，妈咪。爱我并信任我。

Ever your AMY
永远是你的艾米

CHAPTER THIRTY-TWO
第三十二章

‘Jo, I’m anxious about Beth.’
“乔，我很担心贝丝。”

‘Why, Mother, she has seemed unusually well since the babies came.’
“哎呀，妈妈，自从孩子们出生以来，她看上去就异常健康。”

‘It’s not her health that troubles me now, it’s her spirits. I’m sure there is something on her mind, and I want you to discover what it is.’
“现在困扰我的不是她的健康，而是她的精神。我确信她心里有事，我想让你知道那是什么。

‘What makes you think so, Mother?’
“妈妈，你为什么这么想？”

‘She sits alone a good deal, and doesn’t talk to her father as much as she used. I found her crying over the babies the other day. When she sings, the songs are always sad ones, and now and then I see a look in her face that I don’t understand. This isn’t like Beth, and it worries me.’
“她经常独自坐着，不像以前那样经常和父亲说话。前几天我发现她为孩子们哭泣。她唱歌的时候，歌曲总是悲伤的，我时不时地看到她脸上有一种我不明白的表情。这不像贝丝，这让我很担心。”

‘Have you asked her about it?’
“你问过她这件事了吗？”

‘I have tried once or twice, but she either evaded my questions or looked so distressed that I stopped. I never force my children’s confidence, and I seldom have to wait for long.’
“我尝试过一两次，但她要么回避我的问题，要么看起来很痛苦，所以我停了下来。我从不强迫孩子们相信我，而且我很少需要等待很长时间。

Mrs. March glanced at Jo as she spoke, but the face opposite seemed quite unconscious of any secret disquietude but Beth’s, and after sewing thoughtfully for a minute, Jo said, ‘I think she is growing up, and so begins to dream dreams, and have hopes and fears and fidgets, without knowing why or being able to explain them. Why, Mother, Beth’s eighteen, but we don’t realize it, and treat her like a child, forgetting she’s a woman.’
马奇太太说话时看了一眼乔，但对面的脸似乎完全没有意识到除了贝丝以外的任何秘密的不安，乔若有所思地缝纫了一分钟后说：“我认为她正在长大，因此开始做梦，并有希望、恐惧和坐立不安，但不知道为什么或无法解释它们。为什么，妈妈，贝丝已经十八岁了，但我们却没有意识到这一点，把她当作孩子一样对待，忘记了她是个女人。

‘So she is. Dear heart, how fast you do grow up,’ returned her mother with a sigh and a smile.
” “她确实是这样。亲爱的心，你长得真快啊。”母亲叹了口气，微笑着回答道。

‘Can’t be helped, Marmee, so you must resign yourself to all sorts of worries, and let your birds hop out of the nest, one by one. I promise never to hop very far, if that is any comfort to you.’
“没办法了，妈妈，所以你必须放下一切烦恼，让你的鸟儿一只一只地跳出巢穴。我保证永远不会跳得太远，如果这能让你感到安慰的话。

‘It’s a great comfort, Jo. I always feel strong when you are at home, now Meg is gone. Beth is too feeble and Amy too young to depend upon, but when the tug comes, you are always ready.’
“这是一种极大的安慰，乔。当你在家的时候我总是感觉很坚强，现在梅格走了。贝丝太虚弱，艾米太年轻，无法依靠，但当拖船来临时，你总是做好准备。

‘Why, you know I don’t mind hard jobs much, and there must always be one scrub in a family. Amy is splendid in fine works and I’m not, but I feel in my element when all the carpets are to be taken up, or half the family fall sick at once. Amy is distinguishing herself abroad, but if anything is amiss at home, I’m your man.’
‘哎呀，你知道我不太介意艰苦的工作，而且一个家庭里总得有一名护士。艾米在精美的作品上很出色，而我则不然，但当所有的地毯都被收起来，或者一半的家庭立刻生病时，我感到很自然。艾米在国外表现出色，但如果家里出了什么问题，我就是你的人。

‘I leave Beth to your hands, then, for she will open her tender little heart to her Jo sooner than to anyone else. Be very kind, and don’t let her think anyone watches or talks about; her. If she only would get quite strong and cheerful again, I shouldn’t have a wish in the world.’
“那么，我把贝丝交给你了，因为她会比其他人更快地向她的乔敞开她温柔的小心。要非常友善，不要让她认为有人在观看或谈论；她。如果她能再次变得坚强、开朗，我就不会有任何愿望了。

‘Happy woman! I’ve got heaps.’
‘幸福的女人！我有很多。

‘My dear, what are they?’
“亲爱的，它们是什么？”

‘I’ll settle Bethy’s troubles, and then I’ll tell you mine. They are not very wearing, so they’ll keep.’ And Jo stitched away, with a wise nod which set her mother’s heart at rest about her for the present at least.
“我会解决贝丝的麻烦，然后我会告诉你我的。”它们不太旧，所以可以保留下来。”乔明智地点点头，把它们缝合起来，这至少让她母亲暂时放心了。

While apparently absorbed in her own affairs, Jo watched Beth, and after many conflicting conjectures, finally settled upon one which seemed to explain the change in her. A slight incident gave Jo the clue to the mystery, she thought, and lively fancy, loving heart did the rest. She was affecting to write busily one Saturday afternoon, when she and Beth were alone together. Yet as she scribbled, she kept her eye on her sister, who seemed unusually quiet. Sitting at the window, Beth’s work often dropped into her lap, and she leaned her head upon her hand, in a dejected attitude, while her eyes rested on the dull, autumnal landscape. Suddenly some one passed below, whistling like an operatic blackbird, and a voice called out, ‘All serene! Coming in tonight.’
虽然乔显然全神贯注于自己的事情，但她观察着贝丝，经过许多相互矛盾的猜测，最终确定了一个似乎可以解释她身上的变化的想法。乔认为，一件小事给了这个谜团的线索，剩下的事情就由活泼的想象力和爱心完成了。一个星期六的下午，当她和贝丝单独在一起时，她假装在忙碌地写作。然而，她一边写着，一边注视着她的妹妹，她看起来异常安静。坐在窗前，贝丝的工作常常掉到她的腿上，她把头靠在手上，一副沮丧的样子，眼睛停留在暗淡的秋景上。突然，有人从下面走过，像歌剧中的黑鸟一样吹着口哨，一个声音喊道：“一切安静！今晚进来。

Beth started, leaned forward, smiled and nodded, watched the passer-by till his quick tramp died away, then said softly as if to herself, ‘How strong and well and happy that dear boy looks.’
贝丝吃了一惊，向前倾身，微笑着点点头，看着路人，直到他急促的脚步声消失，然后轻声说道，仿佛自言自语：“这个可爱的男孩看起来多么坚强、健康和快乐。”

‘Hum!’ said Jo, still intent upon her sister’s face, for the bright color faded as quickly as it came, the smile vanished, and presently a tear lay shining on the window ledge. Beth whisked it off, and in her half-averted face read a tender sorrow that made her own eyes fill. Fearing to betray herself, she slipped away, murmuring something about needing more paper.
“嗯！”乔说，仍然全神贯注地看着姐姐的脸，因为鲜艳的色彩来得快去得也快，笑容也消失了，不久窗台上闪着泪光。贝丝迅速把它摘下来，在她半偏向的脸上读到了一种温柔的悲伤，让她自己的眼睛充满了悲伤。由于害怕暴露自己，她溜走了，低声说需要更多纸张。

‘Mercy on me, Beth loves Laurie!’ she said, sitting down in her own room, pale with the shock of the discovery which she believed she had just made. ‘I never dreamed of such a thing. What will Mother say? I wonder if her...’ there Jo stopped and turned scarlet with a sudden thought. ‘If he shouldn’t love back again, how dreadful it would be. He must. I’ll make him!’ And she shook her head threateningly at the picture of the mischievouslooking boy laughing at her from the wall. ‘Oh dear, we are growing up with a vengeance. Here’s Meg married and a mamma, Amy flourishing away at Paris, and Beth in love. I’m the only one that has sense enough to keep out of mischief.’ Jo thought intently for a minute with her eyes fixed on the picture, then she smoothed out her wrinkled forehead and said, with a decided nod at the face opposite, ‘No thank you, sir, you’re very charming, but you’ve no more stability than a weathercock. So you needn’t write touching notes and smile in that insinuating way, for it won’t do a bit of good, and I won’t have it.’
“怜悯我，贝丝爱劳里！”她坐在自己的房间里说道，她相信自己刚刚做出的发现让她脸色苍白。 ‘我从来没有梦想过这样的事情。妈妈会说什么？我想知道她是不是……”乔停了下来，突然想到了什么，脸涨得通红。 ‘如果他不再爱回来，那该多可怕啊。他必须。我会成功的！”当看到墙上那个顽皮的男孩对她大笑的照片时，她威胁地摇了摇头。 ‘哦，天哪，我们是在复仇中长大的。梅格结婚了，当了妈妈，艾米在巴黎风光无限，贝丝陷入了爱情。我是唯一一个有足够理智避免恶作剧的人。”乔眼睛盯着照片，专心思考了一分钟，然后抚平满是皱纹的额头，对着对面的脸坚定地点了点头，说道： “不，谢谢您，先生，您非常迷人，但您的稳定性并不比风向标高。所以你不必写感人的便条，用那种含沙射影的方式微笑，因为这起不到一点好处，我也不会接受。

Then she sighed, and fell into a reverie from which she did not wake till the early twilight sent her down to take new observations, which only confirmed her suspicion. Though Laurie flirted with Amy and joked with Jo, his manner to Beth had always been peculiarly kind and gentle, but so was everybody’s. Therefore, no one thought of imagining that he cared more for her than for the others. Indeed, a general impression had prevailed in the family of late that ‘our boy’ was getting fonder than ever of Jo, who, however, wouldn’t hear a word upon the subject and scolded violently if anyone dared to suggest it. If they had known the various tender passages which had been nipped in the bud, they would have had the immense satisfaction of saying, ‘I told you so.’ But Jo hated ‘philandering’, and wouldn’t allow it, always having a joke or a smile ready at the least sign of impending danger. When Laurie first went to college, he fell in love about once a month, but these small flames were as brief as ardent, did no damage, and much amused Jo, who took great interest in the alternations of hop, despair, and resignation, which were confided to her in their weekly conferences. But there came a time when Laurie ceased to worship at many shrines, hinted darkly at one all-absorbing passion, and indulged occasionally in Byronic fits of gloom. Then he avoided the tender subject altogether, wrote philosophical notes to Jo, turned studious, and gave out that he was going to ‘dig’, intending to graduate in a blaze of glory. This suited the young lady better than twilight confidences, tender pressures of the hand, and eloquent glances of the eye, for with Jo, brain developed earlier than heart, and she preferred imaginary heroes to real ones, because when tired of them, the former could be shut up in the tin kitchen till called for, and the latter were less manageable.
然后她叹了口气，陷入了沉思，直到黎明的曙光让她下去进行新的观察，她才从沉思中醒来，这更加证实了她的怀疑。尽管劳里与艾米调情，与乔开玩笑，但他对贝丝的态度一直特别友善和温柔，但每个人也是如此。所以，谁也没有想到，他对她的关心，胜过对其他人的关心。事实上，近来家里普遍存在这样一种印象：“我们的孩子”比以往任何时候都更喜欢乔，然而乔却对这个话题只字不提，如果有人胆敢提出这个建议，他就会猛烈地斥责。如果他们知道那些被扼杀在萌芽状态的各种温柔的段落，他们会非常满意地说：“我早就告诉过你了。”但是乔讨厌“花心”，并且不允许这样做，总是有一种一旦有危险即将来临，就准备好开玩笑或微笑。劳里刚上大学时，他大约每个月坠入爱河一次，但这些小火焰就像热烈一样短暂，没有造成任何损害，这让乔感到很有趣，他对跳跃、绝望和顺从的交替非常感兴趣，这些都是在他们每周的会议上向她透露的。但有一段时间，劳里不再去许多神殿崇拜，暗暗地暗示着一种全神贯注的激情，并且偶尔沉溺于拜伦式的忧郁之中。然后他完全回避了这个温柔的话题，给乔写了哲学笔记，变得勤奋好学，并表示他要“挖掘”，打算光荣地毕业。 这比黄昏时的倾诉、温柔的手压和雄辩的眼神更适合这位年轻女士，因为对于乔来说，大脑比心脏更早发育，她更喜欢想象中的英雄而不是真实的英雄，因为当厌倦了他们时，前者可以将其关在铁皮厨房里直到需要为止，而后者则更难管理。

Things were in this state when the grand discovery was made, and Jo watched Laurie that night as she had never done before. If she had not got the new idea into her head, she would have seen nothing unusual in the fact that Beth was very quiet, and Laurie very kind to her. But having given the rein to her lively fancy, it galloped away with her at a great pace, and common sense, being rather weakened by a long course or romance writing, did not come to the rescue. As usual Beth lay on the sofa and Laurie sat in a low chair close by, amusing her with all sorts of gossip, for she depended on her weekly ‘spin’, and he never disappointed her. But that evening Jo fancied that Beth’s eyes rested on the lively, dark face beside her with peculiar pleasure, and that she listened with intense interest to an account of some exciting cricket match, though the phrases, ‘caught off a tice’, ‘stumped off his ground’’, and ‘the leg hit for three’, were as intelligible to her as Sanskrit. She also fancied, having set her heart upon seeing it, that she saw a certain increase of gentleness in Laurie’s manner, that he dropped his voice now and then, laughed less than usual, was a little absent—minded, and settled the afghan over Beth’s feet with an assiduity that was really almost tender.
当这一重大发现出现时，事情就处于这种状态，那天晚上乔以她以前从未做过的方式观察了劳里。如果她脑子里没有这个新想法，她不会觉得贝丝很安静，劳里对她很好，这并没有什么不寻常的。但在她放纵了活泼的幻想之后，它却以极快的速度飞驰而去，而常识因长期的课程或浪漫主义写作而被削弱，并没有来拯救她。像往常一样，贝丝躺在沙发上，劳里坐在附近的一张矮椅子上，用各种八卦逗她开心，因为她依赖每周的“旋转”，而他从来没有让她失望过。但那天晚上，乔觉得贝丝的眼睛带着一种特殊的愉悦落在她旁边那张活泼、黝黑的脸上，她怀着浓厚的兴趣听着一场激动人心的板球比赛的报道，尽管“抓住了机会”、“难倒了”这些短语。 “离地”和“腿击中三分”，对她来说就像梵文一样容易理解。她还觉得，一看到这件事，她就下定决心，看到劳里的举止变得更加温和了，他时不时压低声音，笑得比平时少了，有点心不在焉，把阿富汗人的事安顿下来。贝丝的脚勤劳得近乎温柔。

‘Who knows? Stranger things have happened,’ thought Jo, as she fussed about the room. ‘She will make quite an angel of him, and he will make life delightfully easy and pleasant for the dear, if they only love each other. I don’t see how he can help it, and I do believe he would if the rest of us were out of the way.’
'谁知道？发生了更奇怪的事情，”乔一边在房间里忙来忙去，一边想。 “她将使他成为一位天使，而他将使亲爱的人的生活变得轻松愉快，只要他们彼此相爱。”我不知道他能如何帮助它，而且我相信如果我们其他人不妨碍他，他会的。

As everyone was out of the way but herself, Jo began to feel that she ought to dispose of herself with all speed. But where should she go? And burning to lay herself upon the shrine of sisterly devotion, she sat down to settle that point.
由于除了她自己之外，每个人都避开了，乔开始觉得她应该尽快摆脱自己。但她该去哪里呢？她热切地想把自己放在姐妹忠诚的圣坛上，于是她坐下来解决了这个问题。

Now, the old sofa was a regular patriarch of a sofa—long, broad, well-cushioned, and low, a trifle shabby, as well it might be, for the girls had slept and sprawled on it as babies, fished over the back, rode on the arms, and had menageries under it as children, and rested tired heads, dreamed dreams, and listened to tender talk on it as young women. They all loved it, for it was a family refuge, and one corner had always been Jo’s favorite lounging place. Among the many pillows that adorned the venerable couch was one, hard, round, covered with prickly horsehair, and furnished with a knobby button at each end. This repulsive pillow was her especial property, being used as a weapon of defense, a barricade, or a stern preventive of too much slumber.
现在，这张旧沙发是沙发的典型代表——长、宽、缓冲良好，而且低矮，可能有点破旧，因为女孩们在婴儿时期就睡过，趴在上面，在背面钓鱼。 ，骑在手臂上，在它下面有动物园，就像孩子一样，休息疲惫的头，做梦，听在它上面温柔的谈话，就像年轻的女人一样。他们都很喜欢这里，因为这里是家庭的避难所，而其中一个角落一直是乔最喜欢的休息处。古老的沙发上装饰着众多枕头，其中有一个，又硬又圆，上面覆盖着带刺的马毛，两端各有一个旋钮。这个令人厌恶的枕头是她的特殊财产，被用作防御武器、路障或防止过度睡眠的严格预防措施。

Laurie knew this pillow well, and had cause to regard it with deep aversion, having been unmercifully pummeled with it in former days when romping was allowed, and now frequently debarred by it from the seat he most coveted next ot Jo in the sofa corner. If ‘the sausage’ as the called it, stood on end, it was a sign that he might approach and repose, but if it lay flat across the sofa, woe to man, woman, or child who dared disturb it! That evening Jo forgot to barricade her corner, and had not been in her seat five minutes, before a massive form appeared beside her, and with both arms spread over the sofa back, both long legs stretched out before him, Laurie exclaimed, with a sigh of satisfaction...
劳里非常熟悉这个枕头，并且有理由对它怀有深深的厌恶，因为以前在允许嬉戏的时候，他曾被它无情地敲打过，而现在，它经常被它禁止坐在沙发角落里他最渴望的乔旁边的座位上。如果所谓的“香肠”竖立起来，则表明他可以靠近并休息，但如果它平放在沙发上，那么敢于打扰它的男人、女人或孩子就有祸了！那天晚上，乔忘了在她的角落设置路障，还没到座位五分钟，一个巨大的身影就出现在她身边，双臂伸在沙发靠背上，两条长腿伸到他面前，劳里惊呼道，满足的叹息……

‘Now, this is filling at the price.’
“现在，这个价格已经足够了。”

‘No slang,’ snapped Jo, slamming down the pillow. But it was too late, there was no room for it, and coasting onto the floor, it disappeared in a most mysterious manner.
“没有俚语。”乔厉声说道，摔下枕头。但为时已晚，没有空间容纳它，它滑到地板上，以一种最神秘的方式消失了。

‘Come, Jo, don’t be thorny. After studying himself to a skeleton all the week, a fellow deserves petting and ought to get it.’
‘来吧，乔，别感到棘手。经过一周的研究之后，一个人值得被爱抚，并且应该得到它。

‘Beth will pet you. I’m busy.’
“贝丝会抚摸你。我很忙。'

‘No, she’s not to be bothered with me, but you like that sort of thing, unless you’ve suddenly lost your taste for it. Have you? Do you hate your boy, and want to fire pillows at him?’
“不，她不会打扰我，但你喜欢那种事情，除非你突然失去了兴趣。你？你恨你的儿子，想向他扔枕头吗？

Anything more wheedlesome than that touching appeal was seldom heard, but Jo quenched ‘her boy’ by turning on him with a stern query, ‘How many bouquets have you sent Miss Randal this week?’
很少听到比这感人的恳求更令人愉快的事情了，但乔通过严厉的询问来平息“她的儿子”，“这周你给兰德尔小姐送了多少束花？”

‘Not one, upon my word. She’s engaged. Now then.’
“我保证，没有一个。”她订婚了。接着。'

‘I’m glad of it, that’s one of your foolish extravagances, sending flowers and things to girls for whom you don’t care two pins,’ continued Jo reprovingly.
“我很高兴，这是你愚蠢的奢侈行为之一，给你不关心的女孩送花和东西两枚别针，”乔责备地继续说道。

‘Sensible girls for whom I do care whole papers of pins won’t let me send them ‘flowers and things’, so what can I do? My feelings need a‘ vent’.’
“我关心的懂事的女孩不会让我送她们‘鲜花和东西’，所以我能做什么呢？我的感情需要‘发泄’。”

‘Mother doesn’t approve of flirting even in fun, and you do flirt desperately, Teddy.’
“妈妈不赞成调情，即使是为了好玩，但你却拼命地调情，泰迪。”

‘I’d give anything if I could answer, ‘So do you’. As I can’t, I’ll merely say that I don’t see any harm in that pleasant little game, if all parties understand that it’s only play.’
“如果我能回答‘你也是’，我愿意付出任何代价。”因为我不能，我只能说，如果各方都明白这只是游戏，那么我认为这个令人愉快的小游戏没有任何害处。

‘Well, it does look pleasant, but I can’t learn how it’s done. I’ve tried, because one feels awkward in company not to do as everybody else id doing, but I don’t seem to get on’, said Jo, forgetting to play mentor.
“嗯，看起来确实不错，但我不知道它是怎么做的。我试过了，因为在公司里，如果不像其他人那样做，会感到很尴尬，但我似乎相处不好。”乔说道，忘记扮演导师的角色。

‘Take lessons of Amy, she has a regular talent for it.’
“向艾米学习，她有这方面的天赋。”

‘Yes, she does it very prettily, and never seems to go too far. I suppose it’s natural to some people to please without trying, and others to always say and do the wrong thing in the wrong place.’
“是的，她做得非常漂亮，而且似乎从来没有走得太远。我认为有些人不费吹灰之力就想取悦别人，而另一些人总是在错误的地方说错话、做错事，这是很自然的事。”

‘I’m glad you can’t flirt. It’s really refreshing to see a sensible, straightforward girl, who can be jolly and kind without making a fool of herself. Between ourselves, Jo, some of the girls I know really do go on at such a rate I’m ashamed of them. They don’t mean any harm, I’m sure, but if they knew how we fellows talked about them afterward, they’d mend their ways, I fancy.’
“我很高兴你不会调情。看到一个懂事、直率、开朗、善良又不出丑的女孩，真是令人耳目一新。乔，我们私下说，我认识的一些女孩确实以这样的速度发展，我为她们感到羞耻。我确信他们没有任何恶意，但如果他们知道我们这些家伙后来如何谈论他们，我想他们会改正自己的方式。

‘They do the same, and as their tongues are the sharpest, you fellows get the worst of it, for you are as silly as they, every bit. If you behaved properly, they would, but knowing you like their nonsense, they keep it up, and then you blame them.’
“他们也是这么做的，而且他们的舌头是最尖的，你们这些家伙就受到了最坏的惩罚，因为你们和他们一样愚蠢，一点一滴。”如果你行为得当，他们会的，但知道你喜欢他们的胡言乱语，他们就会继续这样做，然后你就责怪他们。

‘Much you know about it, ma’am,’ said Laurie in a superior tone. ‘We don’t like romps and flirts, though we may act as if we did sometimes. The pretty, modest girls are never talked about, except respectfully, among gentleman. Bless your innocent soul! If you could be in my place for a month you’d see things that would astonish you a trifle. Upon my word, when I see one of those harum-scarum girls, I always want to say with our friend Cock Robin...
“女士，你对此了解得很多。”劳里用一种优越的语气说道。 “我们不喜欢嬉闹和调情，尽管有时我们可能表现得好像喜欢。绅士们之间从来不谈论漂亮、谦虚的女孩，除非是出于尊敬。祝福你无辜的灵魂！如果你能在我的地方呆一个月，你会看到一些让你感到惊讶的事情。老实说，当我看到那些鲁莽的女孩时，我总是想对我们的朋友 Cock Robin 说……

‘Out upon you, fie upon you,
‘冲向你，冲向你，

Bold-faced jig!’
大胆的吉格！

It was impossible to help laughing at the funny conflict between Laurie’s chivalrous reluctance to speak ill of womankind, and his very natural dislike of the unfeminine folly of which fashionable society showed him many samples. Jo knew that ‘young Laurence’ was regarded as a most eligible parti by worldly mamas, was much smiled upon by their daughters, and flattered enough by ladies of all ages to make a coxcomb of him, so she watched him rather jealously, fearing he would be spoiled, and rejoiced more than she confessed to find that he still believed in modest girls. Returning suddenly to her admonitory tone, she said, dropping her voice, ‘If you must have a ‘went’, Teddy, go and devote yourself to one of the ‘pretty, modest girls’ whom you do respect, and not waste your time with the silly ones.’
劳里不愿说女性坏话的侠义精神和他对时尚社会向他展示的许多非女性愚蠢行为的自然厌恶之间的有趣冲突，让人忍不住发笑。乔知道“年轻的劳伦斯”被世俗的妈妈们视为最有资格的人，受到女儿们的热烈微笑，并受到各个年龄段的女士的奉承，使他成为一个花花公子，所以她相当嫉妒地看着他，担心他她会被宠坏，比她承认的更高兴的是发现他仍然相信谦虚的女孩。她突然恢复了警告的语气，压低了声音说道：“泰迪，如果你一定要‘去’，那就去把自己奉献给你尊敬的‘漂亮、谦虚的女孩’之一，不要浪费时间了。”和那些愚蠢的人在一起。

‘You really advise it?’ And Laurie looked at her with an odd mixture of anxiety and merriment in his face.
“你真的建议这样做吗？”劳里看着她，脸上带着一种奇怪的焦虑和欢乐。

‘Yes, I do, but you’d better wait till you are through college, on the whole, and be fitting yourself for the place meantime. You’re not half good enough for—well, whoever the modest girl may be.’ And Jo looked a little queer likewise, for a name had almost escaped her.
“是的，我愿意，但总的来说，你最好等到大学毕业，同时让自己适应这个地方。你还不够好——好吧，不管这个谦虚的女孩是谁。”乔看起来也同样有点奇怪，因为她几乎忘记了一个名字。

‘That I’m not!’ acquiesced Laurie, with an expression of humility quite new to him, as he dropped his eyes and absently wound Jo’s apron tassel round his finger.
“我不是！”劳里垂下眼睛，心不在焉地把乔的围裙流苏绕在手指上，脸上带着一种他从未见过的谦卑表情，默许了。

‘Mercy on us, this will never do,’ thought Jo, adding aloud, ‘Go and sing to me. I’m dying for some music, and always like yours.’
“怜悯我们，这永远不行，”乔想，大声补充道，“去给我唱歌吧。”我非常渴望一些音乐，而且总是喜欢你的。”

‘I’d rather stay here, thank you.’
“我宁愿留在这里，谢谢。”

‘Well, you can’t, there isn’t room. Go and make yourself useful, since you are too big to be ornamental. I thought you hated to be tied to a woman’s apron string?’ retorted Jo, quoting certain rebellious words of his own.
‘好吧，你不能，没有空间。去让自己变得有用吧，因为你太大了，无法成为装饰。我以为你讨厌被绑在女人的围裙带上？”乔反驳道，引用了他自己的一些叛逆的话。

‘Ah, that depends on who wears the apron!’ and Laurie gave an audacious tweak at the tassel.
“啊，这取决于谁穿围裙！”劳里大胆地扭了一下流苏。

‘Are you going?’ demanded Jo, diving for the pillow.
“你要去吗？”乔一边问道，一边伸手去抓枕头。

He fled at once, and the minute it was well, ‘Up with the bonnets of bonnie Dundee,’ she slipped away to return no more till the young gentleman departed in high dudgeon.
他立刻逃走了，天一亮，“带着漂亮邓迪的帽子，”她就溜走了，再也没有回来，直到这位年轻的绅士愤愤不平地离开。

Jo lay long awake that night, and was just dropping off when the sound of a stifled sob made her fly to Beth’s bedside, with the anxious inquiry, ‘What is it, dear?’
那天晚上，乔睡了很长时间，正当她要睡着时，一声压抑的抽泣声让她飞到贝丝的床边，焦急地询问：“亲爱的，怎么了？”

‘I thought you were asleep,’ sobbed Beth.
“我以为你睡着了，”贝丝抽泣道。

‘Is it the old pain, my precious?’
“这是旧日的痛苦吗，我的宝贝？”

‘No, it’s a new one, but I can bear it.’ And Beth tried to check her tears.
“不，这是一件新的，但我可以忍受。”贝丝试图忍住眼泪。

‘Tell me all about it, and let me cure it as I often did the other.’
“告诉我一切，让我像以前经常做的那样治愈它。”

‘You can’t, there is no cure.’ There Beth’s voice gave way, and clinging to her sister, she cried so despairingly that Jo was frightened.
“你不能，没有办法治愈。”贝丝的声音消失了，她紧紧地抱住妹妹，绝望地哭着，乔被吓坏了。

‘Where is it? Shall I call Mother?’
'它在哪里？我要打电话给妈妈吗？

‘No, no, don’t call her, don’t tell her. I shall be better soon. Lie down here and ‘poor’ my head. I’ll be quiet and go to sleep, indeed I will.’ Jo obeyed, but as her hand went softly to and fro across Beth’s hot forehead and wet eyelids, her heart was very full and she longed to speak. But young as she was, Jo had learned that hearts, like flowers, cannot be rudely handled, but must open naturally, so though she believed she knew the cause of Beth’s new pain, she only said, in her tenderest tone, ‘Does anything trouble you, deary?’
“不，不，不要给她打电话，不要告诉她。我很快就会好起来的。躺在这里，‘可怜’我的头。我会安静地睡觉，确实会的。”乔服从了，但当她的手轻轻地在贝丝滚烫的额头和湿润的眼睑上来回抚摸时，她的心里很充实，很想说话。但乔虽然年轻，但她已经知道，心就像花朵一样，不能被粗鲁地处理，而必须自然开放，因此，尽管她相信自己知道贝丝新痛苦的原因，但她只是用最温柔的语气说：“做点什么吧？”麻烦你了吗，亲爱的？

‘Yes, Jo,’ after a long pause.
“是的，乔。”长时间的停顿后。

‘Wouldn’t it comfort you to tell me what it is?’
“告诉我那是什么，你不会感到安慰吗？”

‘not now, not yet.’
“现在不行，还不行。”

‘Then I won’t ask, but remember, Bethy, that Mother and Jo are always glad to hear and help you, if they can.’
“那我就不会问了，但请记住，贝丝，妈妈和乔总是很高兴听到你的声音，如果可以的话，会为你提供帮助。”

‘I know it. I’ll tell you by-and-by.’
'我知道这。我会慢慢告诉你的。

‘Is the pain better now?’
“现在疼痛好些了吗？”

‘Oh, yes, much better, you are so comfortable, Jo.’
“哦，是的，好多了，你很舒服，乔。”

‘Go to sleep, dear. I’ll stay with you.’
‘去睡觉吧，亲爱的。我会和你在一起。

So cheek to cheek they fell asleep, and on the morrow Beth seemed quite herself again, for at eighteen neither heads nor hearts ache long, and a loving word can medicine most ills.
就这样，他们贴着脸睡着了，第二天，贝丝又恢复了平静，因为十八岁的时候，头和心都不会长时间疼痛，一句爱的话语可以治愈大多数疾病。

But Jo had made up her mind, and after pondering over a project for some days, she confided it to her mother.
但乔已经下定决心，在考虑了一个项目几天后，她向母亲吐露了这个想法。

‘You asked me the other day what my wishes were. I’ll tell you one of them, Marmee,’ she began, as they sat along together. ‘I want to go away somewhere this winter for a change.’
“有一天你问我的愿望是什么。我会告诉你其中之一，妈妈，”当他们坐在一起时，她开始说道。 “今年冬天我想去某个地方改变一下。”

‘Why, Jo?’ And her mother looked up quickly, as if the words suggested a double meaning.
“为什么，乔？”她母亲迅速抬起头，仿佛这句话有双重含义。

With her eyes on her work Jo answered soberly, ‘I want something new. I feel restless and anxious to be seeing, doing, and learning more than I am. I brood too much over my own small affairs, and need stirring up, so as I can be spared this winter, I’d like to hop a little way and try my wings.’
乔专注于自己的工作，冷静地回答：“我想要一些新东西。”我感到不安和焦虑，因为我想要看到、做、学到比我更多的东西。我对自己的小事耿耿于怀，需要搅动一下，这样我才能在这个冬天幸免于难，我想跳一段路，试试我的翅膀。

‘Where will you hop?’
“你会跳到哪里？”

‘To New York. I had a bright idea yesterday, and this is it. You know Mrs. Kirke wrote to you for some respectable young person to teach her children and sew. It’s rather hard to find just the thing, but I think I should suit if I tried.’
‘去纽约。昨天我有了一个好主意，就是这样。你知道柯克夫人写信给你是为了某个受人尊敬的年轻人教她的孩子和缝纫。找到这样的东西相当困难，但我想如果我尝试的话我应该适合。

‘My dear, go out to service in that great boarding house!’ And Mrs. March looked surprised, but not displeased.
“亲爱的，去那个很棒的寄宿处服务吧！”马奇太太看起来很惊讶，但并没有不高兴。

‘It’s not exactly going out to service, for Mrs. Kirke is your friend—the kindest soul that ever lived—and would make things pleasant for me, I know. Her family is separate from the rest, and no one knows me there. Don’t care if they do. It’s honest work, and I’m not ashamed of it.’
“这并不完全是出去服务，因为柯克夫人是你的朋友——有史以来最善良的灵魂——我知道，她会让我感到愉快。”她的家人与其他人分开，那里没有人认识我。不在乎他们是否这样做。这是诚实的工作，我并不为此感到羞耻。”

‘Nor I. But your writing?’
“我也没有。但是你的作品呢？”

‘All the better for the change. I shall see and hear new things, get new ideas, and even if I haven’t much time there, I shall bring home quantities of material for my rubbish.’
'对于改变来说一切都更好。我会看到和听到新事物，得到新想法，即使我在那里没有太多时间，我也会带回家大量的材料来处理我的垃圾。

‘I have no doubt of it, but are these your only reasons for this sudden fancy?’
“我对此毫不怀疑，但这就是你突然产生这种幻想的唯一原因吗？”

‘No, Mother.’
“不，妈妈。”

‘May I know the others?’
“我可以认识其他人吗？”

Jo looked up and Jo looked down, then said slowly, with sudden color in her cheeks. ‘It may be vain and wrong to say it, but—I’m afraid—Laurie is getting too fond of me.’
乔抬起头，乔低下头，然后慢慢地说，脸颊突然涨红。 “这么说可能是徒劳和错误的，但是——我担心——劳里太喜欢我了。”

‘Then you don’t care for him in the way it is evident he begins to care for you?’ And Mrs. March looked anxious as she put the question.
“那么你不像他开始关心你那样关心他吗？”马奇夫人问这个问题时显得很焦虑。

‘Mercy, no! I love the dear boy, as I always have, and am immensely proud of him, but as for anything more, it’s out of the question.’
‘慈悲，不！我一如既往地爱这个可爱的男孩，并为他感到无比自豪，但至于其他什么，这是不可能的。

‘I’m glad of that, Jo.’
“我很高兴，乔。”

‘Why, please?’
'告诉我为什么？'

‘Because, dear, I don’t think you suited to one another. As friends you are very happy, and your frequent quarrels soon blow over, but I fear you would both rebel if you were mated for life. You are too much alike and too fond of freedom, not to mention hot tempers and strong wills, to get on happily together, in a relation which needs infinite patience and forbearance, as well as love.’
“因为，亲爱的，我认为你们彼此不合适。作为朋友，你们很幸福，经常的争吵也很快就过去了，但如果你们是终身伴侣，我担心你们都会叛逆。你们太相似了，太喜欢自由了，更不用说脾气暴躁，意志坚强，无法幸福地在一起，在一种需要无限耐心和隐忍以及爱的关系中。

‘That’s just the feeling I had, though I couldn’t express it. I’m glad you think he is only beginning to care for me. It would trouble me sadly to make him unhappy, for I couldn’t fall in love with the dear old fellow merely out of gratitude, could I?’
“这就是我的感觉，虽然我无法表达。我很高兴你认为他才刚刚开始关心我。如果让他不高兴，我会很伤心，因为我不能仅仅出于感激而爱上这个亲爱的老家伙，不是吗？

‘You are sure of his feeling for you?’
“你确定他对你有感觉吗？”

The color deepened in Jo’s cheeks as she answered, with the look of mingled pleasure, pride, and pain which young girls wear when speaking of first lovers, ‘I’m afraid it is so, Mother. He hasn’t said anything, but he looks a great deal. I think I had better go away before it comes to anything.’
乔脸颊上的颜色加深了，她脸上的表情混合着快乐、骄傲和痛苦，就像年轻女孩在谈到初恋情人时所表现的那样：“恐怕是这样，妈妈。”他什么也没说，但看起来很了不起。我想在事情发生之前我最好离开。

‘I agree with you, and if it can be managed you shall go.’
“我同意你的看法，如果可以的话你就走。”

Jo looked relieved, and after a pause, said, smiling, ‘How Mrs. Moffat would wonder at your want of management, if she knew, and how she will rejoice that Annie may still hope.’
乔看上去松了口气，停顿了一下，微笑着说道：“如果莫法特夫人知道的话，她会多么惊讶你缺乏管理，她会多么高兴安妮仍然有希望。”

‘AH, Jo, mothers may differ in their management, but the hope is the same in all—the desire to see their children happy. Meg is so, and I am content with her success. You I leave to enjoy your liberty till you tire of it, for only then will you find that there is something sweeter. Amy is my chief care now, but her good sense will help ;her. For Beth, I indulge no hopes except that she may be well. By the way, she seems brighter this last day or two. Have you spoken to her?’
‘啊，乔，母亲们的处理方式可能有所不同，但所有人的希望都是一样的——希望看到自己的孩子快乐。梅格就是这样，我对她的成功感到满意。我让你享受你的自由，直到你厌倦为止，因为只有那时你才会发现有更甜蜜的东西。艾米现在是我的主要照顾者，但她的良好判断力会对她有所帮助。对于贝丝，我不抱任何希望，除了她可能会康复。顺便说一句，最近一两天她看起来更明亮了。你跟她说过话了吗？

‘Yes, she owned she had a trouble, and promised to tell me by-and-by. I said no more, for I think I know it,’ And Jo told her little story.
“是的，她承认自己遇到了麻烦，并答应稍后会告诉我。我没有再说什么，因为我想我知道这一点。”乔讲述了她的小故事。

Mrs. March shook her head, and did not take so romantic a view of the case, but looked grave, and repeated her opinion that for Laurie’s sake Jo should go away for a time.
马奇太太摇了摇头，并没有对这个案子采取如此浪漫的看法，而是显得很严肃，并重申了她的观点，即看在劳里的份上，乔应该离开一段时间。

‘Let us say nothing about it to him till the plan is settled, then I’ll run away before he can collect his wits and be tragic. Beth must think I’m going to please myself, as I am, for I can’t talk about Laurie to her. But she can pet and comfort him after I’m gone, and so cure him of this romantic notion. He’s been through so many little trials of the sort, he’s used to it, and will soon get over his lovelornity.’
“在计划确定之前，我们先别对他说什么，然后在他恢复理智、酿成悲剧之前我就逃跑。”贝丝一定认为我会取悦自己，因为我不能和她谈论劳里。但我走后，她可以抚摸和安慰他，从而治愈他这种浪漫的想法。他经历过很多这样的小考验，他已经习惯了，很快就会克服失恋的痛苦。”

Jo spoke hopefully, but could not rid herself of the foreboding fear that this ‘little trial’ would be harder than the others, and that Laurie would not get over his ‘lovelornity’ as easily as heretofore.
乔充满希望地说道，但无法摆脱一种不祥的恐惧，担心这次“小考验”会比其他考验更难，而且劳里不会像以前那样轻易地克服他的“失恋”。

The plan was talked over in a family council and agreed upon, for Mrs. Kirke gladly accepted Jo, and promised to make a pleasant home for her. The teaching would render her independent, and such leisure as she got might be made profitable by writing, while the new scenes and society would be both useful and agreeable. Jo liked the prospect and was eager to be gone, for the home nest was growing too narrow for her restless nature and adventurous spirit. When all was settled, with fear and trembling she told Laurie, but to her surprise he took it very quietly. He had been graver than usual of late, but very pleasant, and when jokingly accused of turning over a new leaf, he answered soberly, ‘So I am, and I mean this one shall stay turned.’
该计划在家庭委员会中进行了讨论并达成一致，因为柯克夫人很高兴地接受了乔，并承诺为她打造一个愉快的家。教学将使她变得独立，她所获得的闲暇可能会通过写作而获利，而新的场景和社会将既有用又令人愉快。乔喜欢这样的前景，渴望离开，因为对于她不安分的天性和冒险精神来说，家的巢穴变得太窄了。当一切都尘埃落定后，她带着恐惧和颤抖告诉了劳里，但令她惊讶的是，他却非常平静地接受了这一切。他最近比平时严肃，但非常和蔼可亲，当有人开玩笑地指责他改过自新时，他清醒地回答说：“我也是，我的意思是这个人会继续改过自新。”

Jo was very much relieved that one of his virtuous fits should come on just then, and made her preparations with a lightened heart, for Beth seemed more cheerful, and hoped she was doing the best for all.
乔很欣慰地发现他的良性发作就在此时，她心情轻松地做好了准备，因为贝丝似乎更高兴了，并希望她为所有人做最好的事情。

‘One thing I leave in your especial care,’ she said, the night before she left.
“有一样东西我留给你特别照顾，”她在离开的前一天晚上说道。

‘You mean your papers?’ asked Beth.
“你是说你的文件吗？”贝丝问。

‘No, my boy. Be very good to him, won’t you?’
‘不，我的孩子。对他很好，好吗？

‘Of course I will, but I can’t fill your place, and he’ll miss you sadly.’
“我当然会，但我无法填补你的空缺，他会伤心地想念你。”

‘It won’t hurt him, so remember, I leave him in your charge, to plague, pet, and keep in order.’
“这不会伤害他，所以记住，我把他交给你照顾，去折磨、抚摸和维持秩序。”

‘I’ll do my best, for your sake,’ promised Beth, wondering why Jo looked at her so queerly.
“为了你，我会尽力而为。”贝丝答应道，她想知道为什么乔用如此奇怪的眼神看着她。

When Laurie said good-by, he whispered significantly, ‘It won’t do a bit of good, Jo. My eye is on you, so mind what you do, or I’ll come and bring you home.’
当劳里告别时，他意味深长地低声说道：“这不会有任何好处，乔。”我的眼睛在看着你，所以小心你的行为，否则我会来带你回家。”

CHAPTER THIRTY-THREE
第三十三章

New York, November
纽约，十一月

Dear Marmee and Beth,
亲爱的妈妈和贝丝：

I’m going to write you a regular volume, for I’ve got heaps to tell, though I’m not a fine young lady traveling on the continent. When I lost sight of Father’s dear old face, I felt a trifle blue, and might have shed a briny drop or two, if an Irish lady with four small children, all crying more or less, hadn’t diverted my mind, for I amused myself by dropping gingerbread nuts over the seat every time they opened their mouths to roar.
我要给你写一本普通的书，因为我有很多话要讲，尽管我不是一个在非洲大陆旅行的漂亮年轻女士。当我看不到父亲那张亲爱的老脸时，我感到一阵忧郁，如果不是一位带着四个孩子的爱尔兰女士转移了我的注意力，我可能会流下一两滴咸水。每次他们张嘴咆哮时，我都会把姜饼坚果扔到座位上来取乐。

Soon the sun came out, and taking it as a good omen, I cleared up likewise and enjoyed my journey with all my heart.
不久，太阳出来了，我视之为好兆头，也放晴了，全心全意地享受旅程。

Mrs. Kirke welcomed me so kindly I felt at home at once, even in that big house full of strangers. She gave me a funny little sky parlor—all she had, but there is a stove in it, and a nice table in a sunny window, so I can sit here and write whenever I like. A fine view and a church tower opposite atone for the many stairs, and I took a fancy to my den on the spot. The nursery, where I am to teach and sew, is a pleasant room next Mrs. Kirke’s private parlor, and the two little girls are pretty children, rather spoiled, I fancy, but they took to me after telling them The Seven Bad Pigs, and I’ve no doubt I shall make a model governess.
柯克夫人非常热情地欢迎了我，即使在那座挤满了陌生人的大房子里，我也立刻感到宾至如归。她给了我一个有趣的空中小客厅——她拥有的一切，但里面有一个炉子，阳光明媚的窗户旁有一张漂亮的桌子，所以我可以坐在这儿随时写作。景色优美，对面有一座教堂塔楼，弥补了许多楼梯的不足，我当场就看上了我的书房。我要教书和缝纫的托儿所是柯克夫人的私人客厅旁边的一间舒适的房间，两个小女孩都是漂亮的孩子，我想，相当被宠坏了，但在告诉她们《七只坏猪》之后，她们喜欢上了我，我毫不怀疑我会成为一名模范家庭教师。

I am to have my meals with the children, if I prefer it to the great table, and for the present I do, for I am bashful, though no one will believe it.
我要和孩子们一起吃饭，如果我更喜欢它而不是大餐桌的话，目前我这样做，因为我很害羞，尽管没有人会相信这一点。

‘Now, my dear, make yourself at home,’ said Mrs. K. in her motherly way, ‘I’m on the drive from morning to night, as you may suppose with such a family, but a great anxiety will be off my mind if I know the children are safe with you. My rooms are always open to you, and your own shall be as comfortable as I can make it. There are some pleasant people in the house if you feel sociable, and your evenings are always free. Come to me if anything goes wrong, and be as happy as you can. There’s the tea bell, I must run and change my cap.’ And off she bustled, leaving me to settle myself in my new nest.
“现在，亲爱的，别客气了，”K 太太以她慈母般的方式说道，“我从早到晚都在开车上，正如你可能想象的那样，在这样的家庭里，但是巨大的焦虑将会消失。”如果我知道孩子们和你在一起很安全，我会很高兴。我的房间永远向您开放，您自己的房间也将尽我所能让您感到舒适。如果您觉得善于交际，家里会有一些令人愉快的人，而且您的夜晚总是自由的。如果有什么问题就来找我，并尽可能快乐。下午茶时间到了，我必须跑去换帽子。”说完她就匆忙离开，留下我在新窝里安顿下来。

As I went downstairs soon after, I saw something I liked. The flights are very long in this tall house, and as I stood waiting at the head of the third one for a little servant girl to lumber up, I saw a gentleman come along behind her, take the heavy hod of coal out of her hand, carry it all the way up, put it down at a door near by, and walk away, saying, with a kind nod and a foreign accent, ‘It goes better so. The little back is too young to haf such heaviness.’
不久我下楼时，我看到了一些我喜欢的东西。这座高大的房子里的楼梯很长，当我站在第三栋楼的前面等待一个小女仆笨手笨脚地爬上来时，我看到一位绅士从她身后走来，从她手中接过沉重的煤斗，一直拎着它，放在附近的门口，然后走开，用外国口音善意地点点头说：“这样更好。”小背还太小，没有这么重。”

Wasn’t it good of him? I like such things, for as Father says, trifles show character. When I mentioned it to Mrs. K., that evening, she laughed, and said, ‘That must have been Professor Bhaer, he’s always doing things of that sort.’
他这不是好事吗？我喜欢这样的事情，因为正如父亲所说，小事彰显品格。那天晚上，当我向 K 女士提到这件事时，她笑了，说：“那一定是巴尔教授，他总是做那种事情。”

Mrs. K. told me he was from Berlin, very learned and good, but poor as a church mouse, and gives lessons to support himself and two little orphan nephews whom he is educating here, according to the wishes of his sister, who married an American. Not a very romantic story, but it interested me, and I was glad to hear that Mrs. K. lends him her parlor for some of his scholars. There is a glass door between it and the nursery, and I mean to peep at him, and then I’ll tell you how he looks. He’s almost forty, so it’s no harm, Marmee.
K夫人告诉我，他来自柏林，非常有学问，很善良，但像教堂里的老鼠一样贫穷，根据他结婚的姐姐的意愿，他通过上课来养活自己和他在这里接受教育的两个孤儿侄子。一个美国人。这不是一个非常浪漫的故事，但它让我感兴趣，我很高兴听到 K 夫人将她的客厅借给他的一些学者。它和托儿所之间有一扇玻璃门，我想偷看一下他，然后我会告诉你他长什么样。他快四十了，所以这没什么坏处，妈咪。

After tea and a go-to-bed romp with the little girls, I attacked the big workbasket, and had a quiet evening chatting with my new friend. I shall keep a journal-letter, and send it once a week, so goodnight, and more tomorrow.
喝完茶，和小女孩们一起上床睡觉后，我拿起大工作篮，和我的新朋友聊天，度过了一个安静的夜晚。我将保留一封日记信，每周发送一次，晚安，明天再发送。

Tuesday Eve
星期二晚上

Had a lively time in my seminary this morning, for the children acted like Sancho, and at one time I really thought I should shake them all round. Some good angel inspired me to try gymnastics, and I kept it up till they were glad to sit down and keep still. After luncheon, the girl took them out for a walk, and I went to my needlework like little Mabel ‘with a willing mind’. I was thanking my stars that I’d learned to make nice buttonholes, when the parlor door opened and shut, and someone began to hum, Kennst Du Das Land, like a big bumblebee. It was dreadfully improper, I know, but I couldn’t resist the temptation, and lifting one end of the curtain before the glass door, I peeped in. Professor Bhaer was there, and while he arranged his books, I took a good look at him. A regular German—rather stout, with brown hair tumbled all over his head, a bushy beard, good nose, the kindest eyes I ever saw, and a splendid big voice that does one’s ears good, after our sharp or slipshod American gabble. His clothes were rusty, his hands were large, and he hadn’t a really handsome feature in his face, except his beautiful teeth, yet I liked him, for he had a fine head, his linen was very nice, and he looked like a gentleman, though two buttons were off his coat and there was a patch on one shoe. He looked sober in spite of his humming, till he went to the window to turn the hyacinth bulbs toward the sun, and stroke the cat, who received him like an old friend. Then he smiled, and when a tap came at the door, called out in a loud, brisk tone, ‘Herein!’
今天早上在我的神学院度过了一段热闹的时光，因为孩子们的表现就像桑乔一样，我一度真想我应该把他们摇一摇。一些善良的天使激励我尝试体操，我一直坚持下去，直到他们很高兴坐下来保持静止。午饭后，女孩带他们出去散步，我像小梅布尔一样“心甘情愿”地去做针线活。我正在感谢我的星星，让我学会了制作漂亮的扣眼，这时客厅的门打开又关上，有人开始哼唱，像一只大黄蜂，肯斯特杜达斯兰德。我知道这是非常不恰当的，但我无法抗拒诱惑，掀起玻璃门前的窗帘一端，我向里面看了一眼。巴尔教授在那里，当他整理书本时，我仔细地看了一眼。对他。一个普通的德国人——相当粗壮，棕色的头发披散在头上，浓密的胡须，漂亮的鼻子，我所见过的最友善的眼睛，以及在我们尖刻或马虎的美国语之后，一个对耳朵有益的美妙大声音。他的衣服都生锈了，他的手很大，脸上除了漂亮的牙齿外，没有什么英俊的特征，但我喜欢他，因为他有一个漂亮的脑袋，他的亚麻布非常漂亮，而且他看起来像一位绅士，尽管他的外套上掉了两颗纽扣，一只鞋子上也有一块补丁。尽管他哼着歌，但他看起来很清醒，直到他走到窗前，把风信子球茎转向阳光，抚摸猫，猫像老朋友一样接待了他。然后他微笑着，当有人敲门时，他用响亮而轻快的声音喊道：“在这里！”

I was just going to run, when I caught sight of a morsel of a child carrying a big book, and stopped, to see what was going on.
我正要跑，突然看到一个小孩拿着一本大书，我就停下来看看发生了什么事。

‘Me wants me Bhaer,’ said the mite, slamming down her book and running to meet him.
“我想要巴尔，”小虫说着，摔下书，跑去迎接他。

‘Thou shalt haf thy Bhaer. Come, then, and take a goot hug from him, my Tina,’ said the Professor, catching her up with a laugh, and holding her so high over his head that she had to stoop her little face to kiss him.
‘你将拥有你的巴尔。那么，来吧，从他那里拥抱一下，我的蒂娜，”教授笑着追上她，把她举过头顶，让她不得不弯下小脸去吻他。

‘Now me mus tuddy my lessin,’ went on the funny little thing. So he put her up at the table, opened the great dictionary she had brought, and gave her a paper and pencil, and she scribbled away, turning a leaf now and then, and passing her little fat finger down the page, as if finding a word, so soberly that I nearly betrayed myself by a laugh, while Mr. Bhaer stood stroking her pretty hair with a fatherly look that made me think she must be his own, though she looked more French than German.
“现在我必须复习功课了，”这个有趣的小东西继续说道。于是他把她放在桌子旁，打开她带来的那本大词典，给了她一张纸和一支笔，她就写下了，时不时地翻动一页，用她的小胖手指在页面上划过，好像在寻找巴尔先生站在那儿，用一种慈父般的表情抚摸着她漂亮的头发，这让我觉得她一定是他自己的，尽管她看起来更像是法国人而不是德国人。

Another knock and the appearance of two young ladies sent me back to my work, and there I virtuously remained through all the noise and gabbling that went on next door. One of the girls kept laughing affectedly, and saying, ‘Now Professor,’ in a coquettish tone, and the other pronounced her German with an accent that must have made it hard for him to keep sober.
又一声敲门声和两位年轻女士的出现让我回到了工作中，我乖乖地呆在那里，忍受着隔壁传来的所有噪音和闲聊声。其中一个女孩不停地笑着，用一种风骚的语气说：“现在是教授。”另一个女孩用德语发音，口音一定让他很难保持清醒。

Both seemed to try his patience sorely, for more than once I heard him say emphatically, ‘No, no, it is not so, you haf not attend to what I say,’ and once there was a loud rap, as if he struck the table with his book, followed by the despairing exclamation, ‘Prut! It all goes bad this day.’
两人似乎都在极大地考验他的耐心，因为我不止一次听到他强调说：“不，不，不是这样的，你没有听我说的话。”有一次，有一次大声的敲击声，好像他打了我一样。桌子上放着他的书，接着是绝望的感叹：“普鲁特！”今天一切都变糟了。

Poor man, I pitied him, and when the girls were gone, took just one more peep to see if he survived it. He seemed to have thrown himself back in his chair, tired out, and sat there with his eyes shut till the clock struck two, when he jumped up, put his books in his pocket, as if ready for another lesson, and taking little Tina who had fallen asleep on the sofa in his arms, he carried her quietly away. I fancy he has a hard life of it. Mrs. Kirke asked me if I wouldn’t go down to the five o’clock dinner, and feeling a little bit homesick, I thought I would, just to see what sort of people are under the same roof with me. So I made myself respectable and tried to slip in behind Mrs. Kirke, but as she is short and I’m tall, my efforts at concealment were rather a failure. She gave me a seat by her, and after my face cooled off, I plucked up courage and looked about me. The long table was full, and every— one intent on getting their dinner, the gentlemen especially, who seemed to be eating on time, for they bolted in every sense of the word, vanishing as soon as they were done. There was the usual assortment of young men absorbed in themselves, young couples absorbed in each other, married ladies in their babies, and old gentlemen in politics. I don’t think I shall care to have much to do with any of them, except one sweetfaced maiden lady, who looks as if she had something in her.
可怜的人，我可怜他，当女孩们走后，我又看了一眼，看看他是否幸存下来。他似乎累坏了，一屁股坐在椅子上，闭着眼睛坐在那里，直到时钟敲响两点，然后他跳起来，把书放进口袋​​，好像准备好再上一堂课，带着小蒂娜。怀里沙发上睡着了的她，被他悄悄抱走了。我想他的生活一定很艰难。柯克太太问我是否不去参加五点钟的晚餐，我觉得有点想家，我想我应该去，只是想看看和我住在同一屋檐下的都是些什么人。于是，我表现得体面一些，试图溜到柯克夫人身后，但由于她个子矮，而我个子高，我的隐藏努力相当失败。她让我在她身边坐下，等我的脸冷静下来后，我才鼓起勇气环顾四周。长桌上坐满了人，每个人都在忙着吃晚饭，尤其是那些先生们，他们似乎很准时吃饭，因为他们在各种意义上都逃跑了，一吃完就消失了。常见的有专注于自己的年轻人、专注于彼此的年轻夫妇、怀着孩子的已婚女士以及热衷于政治的老绅士。我不认为我会愿意与他们中的任何一个人有太多关系，除了一位面容甜美的少女，她看起来好像有什么东西。

Cast away at the very bottom of the table was the Professor, shouting answers to the questions of a very inquisitive, deaf old gentleman on one side, and talking philosophy with a Frenchman on the other. If Amy had been here, she’d have turned her back on him forever because, sad to relate, he had a great appetite, and shoveled in his dinner in a manner which would have horrified ‘her ladyship’. I didn’t mind, for I like ‘to see folks eat with a relish’, as Hannah says, and the poor man must have needed a deal of food after teaching idiots all day.
教授被扔在桌子的最底层，一边大声回答一位好奇的聋哑老绅士的问题，一边与一位法国人谈论哲学。如果艾米在这里，她会永远背弃他，因为，令人遗憾的是，他胃口很大，而且以一种会让“夫人”感到害怕的方式铲进晚餐。我并不介意，因为我喜欢“看到人们吃得津津有味”，正如汉娜所说，而这个可怜的人在教了白痴一天之后一定需要大量的食物。

As I went upstairs after dinner, two of the young men were settling their hats before the hall mirror, and I heard one say low to the other, ‘Who’s the new party?’
当我吃完晚饭上楼时，两个年轻人正在大厅的镜子前摆放帽子，我听到一个人低声对另一个人说：“新来的人是谁？”

‘Governess, or something of that sort.’
“家庭教师，或者类似的人。”

‘What the deuce is she at our table for?’
“她到底来我们这桌干什么？”

‘Friend of the old lady’s.’
“老太太的朋友。”

‘Handsome head, but no style.’
“头很帅，但没有风格。”

‘Not a bit of it. Give us a light and come on.’
‘一点也没有。给我们一盏灯，然后走吧。”

I felt angry at first, and then I didn’t care, for a governess is as good as a clerk, and I’ve got sense, if I haven’t style, which is more than some people have, judging from the remarks of the elegant beings who clattered away, smoking like bad chimneys. I hate ordinary people!
起初我感到很生气，然后我就不在乎了，因为家庭教师和职员一样好，而且我有理智，如果我没有风格，这比某些人更有道理，从言论来看那些优雅的人像坏烟囱一样冒着烟，嘎嘎作响地走开。我讨厌普通人！

Thursday
周四

Yesterday was a quiet day spent in teaching, sewing, and writing in my little room, which is very cozy, with a light and fire. I picked up a few bits of news and was introduced to the Professor. It seems that Tina is the child of the Frenchwoman who does the fine ironing in the laundry here. The little thing has lost her heart to Mr. Bhaer, and follows him about the house like a dog whenever he is at home, which delights him, as he is very fond of children, though a ‘bacheldore’. Kitty and Minnie Kirk likewise regard him with affection, and tell all sorts of stories about the plays he invents, the presents he brings, and the splendid tales he tells. The younger men quiz him, it seems, call him Old Fritz, Lager Beer, Ursa Major, and make all manner of jokes on his name. But he enjoys it like a boy, Mrs. Kirke says, and takes it so good-naturedly that they all like him in spite of his foreign ways.
昨天是安静的一天，我在我的小房间里教学、缝纫和写作，房间非常舒适，有灯光和火。我了解到一些新闻并被介绍给教授。蒂娜似乎是这里洗衣店里负责熨烫衣服的法国女人的孩子。这只小东西对巴尔先生失去了兴趣，只要他在家，它就会像狗一样跟着他在家里走来走去，这让他很高兴，因为他非常喜欢孩子，尽管他是个“单身汉”。基蒂和米妮·柯克同样对他充满感情，并讲述了关于他发明的戏剧、他带来的礼物以及他讲述的精彩故事的各种故事。年轻人似乎对他进行了测验，称他为“老弗里茨”、“拉格啤酒”、“大熊座”，并以他的名字开各种玩笑。但柯克夫人说，他像个男孩一样享受这一切，而且脾气很好，所以尽管他的行为方式很外国，但他们都喜欢他。

The maiden lady is a Miss Norton, rich, cultivated, and kind. She spoke to me at dinner today (for I went to table again, it’s such fun to watch people), and asked me to come and see her at her room. She has fine books and pictures, knows interesting persons, and seems friendly, so I shall make myself agreeable, for I do want to get into good society, only it isn’t the same sort that Amy likes.
这位处女是诺顿小姐，富有，有教养，善良。今天晚餐时她和我说话（因为我又去餐桌了，看人们真是太有趣了），并邀请我去她的房间看她。她有好书和图画，认识有趣的人，而且看起来很友善，所以我会让自己变得和蔼可亲，因为我确实想进入美好的社会，只是这不是艾米喜欢的类型。

I was in our parlor last evening when Mr. Bhaer came in with some newspapers for Mrs. Kirke. She wasn’t there, but Minnie, who is a little old woman, introduced me very prettily. ‘This is Mamma’s friend, Miss March.’
昨晚，我正在客厅里，巴尔先生进来给柯克太太拿了一些报纸。她不在那儿，但米妮，一个小老太婆，非常漂亮地介绍了我。 “这是妈妈的朋友，马奇小姐。”

‘Yes, and she’s jolly and we like her lots,’ added Kitty, who is and ‘enfant terrible’.
“是的，她很快乐，我们喜欢她的一切，”基蒂补充道，她“是个糟糕的孩子”。

We both bowed, and then we laughed, for the prim introduction and the blunt addition were rather a comical contrast.
我们都鞠了一躬，然后笑了，因为一本正经的介绍和直率的补充形成了相当滑稽的对比。

‘Ah, yes, I hear these naughty ones go to vex you, Mees Marsch. If so again, call at me and I come,’ he said, with a threatening frown that delighted the little wretches.
“啊，是的，我听说这些顽皮的家伙会惹恼你，米斯·马什。如果再有这样的情况，叫我一声，我就来。”他说，皱着眉头，威胁着这群小可怜虫。

I promised I would, and he departed, but it seems as if I was doomed to see a good deal of him, for today as I passed his door on my way out, by accident I knocked against it with my umbrella. It flew open, and there he stood in his dressing gown, with a big blue sock on one hand and a darning needle in the other. He didn’t seem at all ashamed of it, for when I explained and hurried on, he waved his hand, sock and all, saying in his loud, cheerful way...
我答应了，他就走了，但似乎我注定要见到他很多次，因为今天我出去经过他的门时，不小心用雨伞撞到了门。门突然打开了，他穿着晨衣站在那里，一只手拿着一只蓝色的大袜子，另一只手拿着一根补补针。他似乎一点也不为此感到羞耻，因为当我解释并匆忙继续时，他挥舞着他的手，连袜子都挥舞着，用他那响亮、愉快的方式说道……

‘You haf a fine day to make your walk. Bon voyage, Mademoiselle.’
“今天天气很好，适合散步。”一路顺风，小姐。”

I laughed all the way downstairs, but it was a little pathetic, also to think of the poor man having to mend his own clothes. The German gentlemen embroider, I know, but darning hose is another thing and not so pretty.
我一路笑着下楼，但想到这个可怜的人还得自己缝衣服，就有点可怜了。我知道德国绅士会刺绣，但补补软管是另一回事，而且不那么漂亮。

Nothing has happened to write about, except a call on Miss Norton, who has a room full of pretty things, and who was very charming, for she showed me all her treasures, and asked me if I would sometimes go with her to lectures and concerts, as her escort, if I enjoyed them. She put it as a favor, but I’m sure Mrs. Kirke has told her about us, and she does it out of kindness to me. I’m as proud as Lucifer, but such favors from such people don’t burden me, and I accepted gratefully. When I got back to the nursery there was such an uproar in the parlor that I looked in, and there was Mr. Bhaer down on his hands and knees, with Tina on his back, Kitty leading him with a jump rope, and Minnie feeding two small boys with seedcakes, as they roared and ramped in cages built of chairs.
没什么可写的，除了拜访诺顿小姐，她的房间里摆满了漂亮的东西，而且非常迷人，因为她向我展示了她所有的珍宝，并问我是否有时会和她一起去听课和听课。音乐会，作为她的伴奏，如果我喜欢的话。她说这是一种恩惠，但我确信柯克夫人已经告诉过她我们的事，她这样做是出于对我的善意。我和路西法一样骄傲，但这样的人的恩惠并不会给我带来负担，我感激地接受了。当我回到托儿所时，客厅里一片喧闹，我往里一看，巴尔先生双手双膝跪地，蒂娜背着，基蒂用跳绳牵着他，米妮在喂食。两个小男孩拿着种子蛋糕，在椅子搭建的笼子里咆哮着爬行。

‘We are playing nargerie,’ explained Kitty.
“我们正在玩纳杰里，”基蒂解释道。

‘Dis is mine effalunt!’ added Tina, holding on by the Professor’s hair.
“这都是我的恶行！”蒂娜抓着教授的头发补充道。

‘Mamma always allows us to do what we like Saturday afternoon, when Franz and Emil come, doesn’t she, Mr. Bhaer?’ said Minnie.
“周六下午弗兰茨和埃米尔来的时候，妈妈总是允许我们做我们喜欢做的事，不是吗，巴尔先生？”米妮说。

The ‘effalunt’ sat up, looking as much in earnest as any of them, and said soberly to me, ‘I gif you my wort it is so, if we make too large a noise you shall say Hush! to us, and we go more softly.’
“废物”坐了起来，看上去和他们一样认真，严肃地对我说：“我给你我的麦芽汁，是这样的，如果我们发出太大的声音，你就应该说嘘！”对我们来说，我们走得更轻柔。

I promised to do so, but left the door open and enjoyed the fun as much as they did, for a more glorious frolic I never witnessed. They played tag and soldiers, danced and sang, and when it began to grow dark they all piled onto the sofa about the Professor, while he told charming fairy stories of the storks on the chimney tops, and the little ‘koblods’, who ride the snowflakes as they fall. I wish Americans were as simple and natural as Germans, don’t you?
我答应了，但把门开着，像他们一样享受乐趣，享受我从未见过的更辉煌的嬉戏。他们玩标签和士兵，跳舞和唱歌，当天色开始变暗时，他们都挤在沙发上谈论教授，而他则讲述烟囱顶上的鹳鸟和骑着马的小“狗血人”的迷人童话故事。雪花飘落时。我希望美国人像德国人一样简单自然，不是吗？

I’m so fond of writing, I should go spinning on forever if motives of economy didn’t stop me, for though I’ve used thin paper and written fine, I tremble to think of the stamps this long letter will need. Pray forward Amy’s as soon as you can spare them. My small news will sound very flat after her splendors, but you will like them, I know. Is Teddy studying so hard that he can’t find time to write to his friends? Take good care of him for me, Beth, and tell me all about the babies, and give heaps of love to everyone. From your faithful Jo.
我太喜欢写作了，如果不是经济的动机阻止我的话，我应该永远写下去，因为虽然我用的是薄纸，写得很好，但一想到这封长信需要邮票，我就颤抖不已。一旦你能饶过他们，请尽快转发艾米的祈祷。在她辉煌之后，我的小新闻听起来会很平淡，但我知道你会喜欢它们。泰迪学习太努力，以至于没有时间给朋友写信吗？贝丝，替我照顾好他，告诉我所有关于婴儿的事情，给每个人充满爱。来自你忠实的乔。

P.S. On reading over my letter, it strikes me as rather Bhaery, but I am always interested in odd people, and I really had nothing else to write about. Bless you!
附：读完我的信后，我觉得这更像是 Bhaery，但我总是对奇怪的人感兴趣，而且我真的没有什么可写的。祝福你！

DECEMBER
十二月

My Precious Betsey,
我亲爱的贝西，

As this is to be a scribble-scrabble letter, I direct it to you, for it may amuse you, and give you some idea of my goings on, for though quiet, they are rather amusing, for which, oh, be joyful! After what Amy would call Herculaneum efforts, in the way of mental and moral agriculture, my young ideas begin to shoot and my little twigs to bend as I could wish. They are not so interesting tome as Tina and the boys, but I do my duty by them, and they are fond of me. Franz and Emil are jolly little lads, quite after my own heart, for the mixture of German and American spirit in the produces a constant state of effervescence. Saturday afternoons are riotous times, whether spent in the house or out, for on pleasant days they all go to walk, like a seminary, with the Professor and myself to keep order, and then such fun!
由于这是一封乱写乱画的信，所以我把它写给你，因为它可能会让你感到高兴，并让你对我的进展有所了解，因为虽然安静，但它们相当有趣，为此，哦，高兴吧！经过艾米所说的赫库兰尼姆努力，以精神和道德农业的方式，我年轻的想法开始萌发，我的小树枝开始按照我的意愿弯曲。他们不像蒂娜和男孩们那么有趣，但我对他们尽了我的职责，他们也喜欢我。弗朗兹和埃米尔是一群快乐的小伙子，很合我的心意，因为德国和美国精神的混合产生了一种持续的兴奋状态。周六下午是热闹的时光，无论是在家里还是在外面，因为在愉快的日子里，他们都会去散步，就像神学院一样，由教授和我自己维持秩序，然后真是太有趣了！

We are very good friends now, and I’ve begun to take lessons. I really couldn’t help it, and it all came about in such a droll way that I must tell you. To begin at the beginning, Mrs. Kirke called to me one day as I passed Mr. Bhaer’s room where she was rummaging.
我们现在是很好的朋友，我已经开始上课了。我真的无法控制，这一切都以一种滑稽的方式发生，我必须告诉你。从头开始，有一天，当我经过巴尔先生的房间时，柯克太太打电话给我，她正在那里翻找。

‘Did you ever see such a den, my dear? Just come and help me put these books to rights, for I’ve turned everything upside down, trying to discover what he has done with the six new handkerchiefs I gave him not long ago.’
“亲爱的，你见过这样的巢穴吗？来帮我把这些书整理好吧，因为我已经把一切都颠倒过来了，试图找出他对我不久前送给他的六块新手帕做了什么。

I went in, and while we worked I looked about me, for it was ‘a den’ to be sure. Books and papers everywhere, a broken meerschaum, and an old flute over the mantlepiece as if done with, a ragged bird without any tail chirped on one window seat, and a box of white mice adorned the other. Half-finished boats and bits of string lay among the manuscripts. Dirty little boots stood drying before the fire, and traces of the dearly beloved boys, for whom he makes a slave of himself, were to be seen all over the room. After a grand rummage three of the missing articles were found, one over the bird cage, one covered with ink, and a third burned brown, having been used as a holder.
我进去了，当我们工作的时候，我环顾四周，因为可以肯定的是，那是一个“巢穴”。到处都是书籍和文件，一只破损的海泡石，壁炉架上挂着一支仿佛已经废弃的旧笛子，一只没有尾巴的破烂鸟在一个靠窗的座位上叽叽喳喳地叫着，另一个座位上装饰着一盒白老鼠。手稿中堆放着半成品的船和一些绳子。肮脏的小靴子在火前晾干，房间里到处都可以看到他心爱的孩子们的痕迹，他把他们变成了自己的奴隶。经过一番彻底搜查后，发现了三件失踪的物品，一件在鸟笼上，一件上面沾满了墨水，第三件被烧成棕色，被用作支架。

‘Such a man!’ laughed good-natured Mrs. K., as she put the relics in the rag bay. ‘I suppose the others are torn up to rig ships, bandage cut fingers, or make kite tails. It’s dreadful, but I can’t scold him. He’s so absent-minded and goodnatured, he lets those boys ride over him roughshod. I agreed to do his washing and mending, but he forgets to give out his things and I forget to look them over, so he comes to a sad pass sometimes.’
“真是个男人！”和蔼可亲的 K 夫人一边笑一边把遗物放进了旧衣服存放处。 “我想其他人都被撕碎了，用来装配船只、包扎割伤的手指，或者制作风筝尾巴。这很可怕，但我不能骂他。他心不在焉，心地善良，任由那些男孩粗暴地骑在他身上。我同意帮他洗衣服、缝补衣服，但他忘记把他的东西给别人，我也忘记检查它们，所以他有时会感到悲伤。

‘Let me mend them,’ said I. ‘I don’t mind it, and he needn’t know. I’d like to, he’s so kind to me about bringing my letters and lending books.’
“让我来修理它们吧，”我说，“我不介意，而且他也不需要知道。”我很愿意，他对我很好，给我带来了信件和借书。”

So I have got his things in order, and knit heels into two pairs of the socks, for they were boggled out of shape with his queer darns. Nothing was said, and I hoped he wouldn’t find it out, but one day last week he caught me at it. Hearing the lessons he gives to others has interested and amused me so much that I took a fancy to lear, for Tina runs in and out, leaving the door open, and I can hear. I had been sitting near this door, finishing off the last sock, and trying to understand what he said to a new scholar, who is as stupid as I am. The girl had gone, and I thought he had also, it was so still, and I was busily gabbling over a verb, and rocking to and fro in a most absurd way, when a little crow made me look up, and there was Mr. Bhaer looking and laughing quietly, while he made signs to Tina not to betray him.
所以我把他的东西整理好，把鞋跟编进两双袜子里，因为它们被他那奇怪的缝补弄得变形了。什么也没说，我希望他不会发现，但上周的一天他发现了我。听他给别人讲课让我很感兴趣，也很有趣，我很想学，因为蒂娜跑进跑出，门开着，我能听到。我一直坐在这扇门附近，吃完最后一只袜子，试图理解他对一位和我一样愚蠢的新学者说的话。那个女孩走了，我以为他也走了，太安静了，我正忙着念叨一个动词，以一种最荒谬的方式来回摇晃，这时一只小乌鸦让我抬头一看，那是先生。巴尔看着蒂娜，静静地笑着，同时示意蒂娜不要背叛他。

‘So!’ he said, as I stopped and stared like a goose, ‘you peep at me, I peep at you, and this is not bad, but see, I am not pleasanting when I say, haf you a wish for German?’
“所以！”当我停下来，像一只鹅一样盯着我看时，他说，“你偷看我，我偷看你，这还不错，但是看，当我说，如果你想学德语时，我并不高兴。” ？

‘Yes, but you are too busy. I am too stupid to learn,’ I blundered out, as red as a peony.
‘是的，但是你太忙了。我太笨了，学不会。”我红得像牡丹，结结巴巴地说。

‘Prut! We will make the time, and we fail not to find the sense. At efening I shall gif a little lesson with much gladness, for look you, Mees Marsch, I haf this debt to pay.’ And he pointed to my work ‘Yes, ‘ they say to one another, these so kind ladies, ‘he is a stupid old fellow, he will see not what we do, he will never observe that his sock heels go not in holes any more, he will think his buttons grow out new when they fall, and believe that strings make theirselves.’ ‘Ah! But I haf an eye, and I see much. I haf a heart, and I feel thanks for this. Come, a little lesson then and now, or no more good fairy works for me and mine.’
‘普鲁特！我们会腾出时间，但我们却找不到意义。在埃芬，我将非常高兴地给大家上一堂课，因为你看，米斯·马什，我有这笔债要偿还。”他指着我的工作“是的，”他们互相说道，这些如此善良的女士们，“他是个愚蠢的老家伙，他不会看到我们在做什么，他永远不会注意到他的袜跟不再有洞，他会认为他的纽扣掉下来时会长出新的，并相信绳子会自己长出来。”啊!但我有一双眼睛，我看到了很多。我有一颗心，为此我感到感谢。来吧，现在和现在都给我一个教训，否则我和我的仙女就不再工作了。”

Of course I couldn’t say anything after that, and as it really is a splendid opportunity, I made the bargain, and we began. I took four lessons, and then I stuck fast in a grammatical bog. The Professor was very patient with me, but it must have been torment to him, and now and then he’d look at me with such an expression of mild despair that it was a toss-up with me whether to laugh or cry. I tried both ways, and when it came to a sniff or utter mortification and woe, he just threw the grammar on to the floor and marched out of the room. I felt myself disgraced and deserted forever, but didn’t blame him a particle, and was scrambling my papers together, meaning to rush upstairs and shake myself hard, when in he came, as brisk and beaming as if I’d covered myself in glory.
当然，在那之后我什么也说不出来，因为这确实是一个绝佳的机会，所以我讨价还价，然后我们就开始了。我上了四节课，然后就陷入了语法的泥潭。教授对我很有耐心，但这对他来说一定是一种折磨，他时不时地用一种轻微绝望的表情看着我，让我很难决定是笑还是哭。我两种方法都试过了，当他感到一阵嗅嗅或彻底的屈辱和悲伤时，他只是把语法扔到地板上，然后大步走出房间。我觉得自己永远丢脸了，被遗弃了，但并没有责怪他半点，正把我的文件乱七八糟地整理在一起，打算冲上楼，用力摇晃自己，这时他进来了，轻快而愉快，好像我把自己裹在了身上。荣耀。

‘Now we shall try a new way. You and I will read these pleasant little MARCHEN together, and dig no more in that dry book, that goes in the corner for making us trouble.’
‘现在我们要尝试一种新方法。你和我将一起阅读这些令人愉快的小三月，不再挖掘那本枯燥的书，它放在角落里给我们带来麻烦。

He spoke so kindly, and opened Hans Andersons’s fairy tales so invitingly before me, that I was more ashamed than ever, and went at my lesson in a neck-or-nothing style that seemed to amuse him immensely. I forgot my bashfulness, and pegged away (no other word will express it) with all my might, tumbling over long words, pronouncing according to inspiration of the minute, and doing my very best. When I finished reading my first page, and stopped for breath, he clapped his hands and cried out in his hearty way, ‘Das ist gut!’ Now we go well! My turn. I do him in German, gif me your ear.’ And away he went, rumbling out the words with his strong voice and a relish which was good to see as well as hear. Fortunately the story was the CONSTANT TIN SOLDIER, which is droll, you know, so I could laugh, and I did, though I didn’t understand half he read, for I couldn’t help it, he was so earnest, I so excited, and the whole thing so comical. After that we got on better, and now I read my lessons pretty well, for this way of studying suits me, and I can see that the grammar gets tucked into the tales and poetry as one gives pills in jelly. I like it very much, and he doesn’t seem tired of it yet, which is very good of him, isn’t it? I mean to give him something on Christmas, for I dare not offer money. Tell me something nice, Marmee.
他说话很和蔼，在我面前引人入胜地讲述了汉斯·安德森的童话故事，让我比以往任何时候都感到羞愧，然后以一种“要么脖子要么什么都不做”的方式上课，这似乎让他非常开心。我忘记了羞涩，竭尽全力（没有其他词可以表达），翻滚着长词，根据一时的灵感发音，尽力而为。当我读完第一页，停下来喘口气时，他拍着手，由衷地喊道：“Das ist gut！”现在我们进展顺利！轮到我了。我用德语跟他说话，把你的耳朵给我听。”然后他就走了，用他有力的声音隆隆地说出这些话，他的津津有味，既好看又听。幸运的是，这个故事是《不变的锡兵》，这很滑稽，你知道，所以我可以笑，而且我笑了，虽然我听不懂他读的一半，因为我无法控制，他是如此认真，我所以兴奋，整个事情是如此滑稽。从那以后我们相处得更好了，现在我的课读得很好，因为这种学习方式适合我，我可以看到语法融入到故事和诗歌中，就像人们给果冻里的药丸一样。我非常喜欢它，而且他似乎还没有厌倦，这对他来说很好，不是吗？我打算在圣诞节送他点东西，因为我不敢给钱。告诉我一些好听的事情吧，妈妈。

I’m glad Laurie seems so happy and busy, that he has given up smoking and lets his hair grow. You see Beth manages him better than I did. I’m not jealous, dear, do your best, only don’t make a saint of him. I’m afraid I couldn’t like him without a spice of human naughtiness. Read him bits of my letters. I haven’t time to write much, and that will do just as well. Thank Heaven Beth continues so comfortable.
我很高兴劳里看起来如此快乐和忙碌，他已经戒烟并让头发长起来了。你看贝丝比我管理得更好。我不嫉妒，亲爱的，尽力而为，只是不要让他成为圣人。如果没有人类的顽皮，我恐怕无法喜欢他。给他读一些我的信。我没有时间写太多，这样也可以。感谢上帝，贝丝仍然如此舒适。

JANUARY
一月

A Happy New Year to you all, my dearest family, which of course includes Mr. L. and a young man by the name of Teddy. I can’t tell you how much I enjoyed your Christmas bundle, for i didn’t get it till night and had given up hoping. Your letter came in the morning, but you said nothing about a parcel, meaning it for a surprise, so I was disappointed, for I’d had a ‘kind of feeling’ that you wouldn’t forget me. I felt a little low in my mind as I sat up in my room after tea, and when the big, muddy, battered-looking bundle was brought to me, I just hugged it and pranced. It was so homey and refreshing that I sat down on the floor and read and looked and ate and laughed and cried, in my usual absurd way. The things were just what I wanted, and all the better for being made instead of bought. Beth’s new ‘ink bib’ was capital, and Hannah’s box of hard gingerbread will be a treasure. I’ll be sure and wear the nice flannels you sent, Marmee, and read carefully the books Father has marked. Thank you all, heaps and heaps!
祝大家新年快乐，我最亲爱的家人，其中当然包括 L. 先生和一个名叫泰迪的年轻人。我无法告诉你我有多喜欢你的圣诞礼包，因为我直到晚上才收到它并放弃了希望。你的信是早上寄来的，但你只字不提包裹，意思是给你一个惊喜，所以我很失望，因为我有一种‘预感’你不会忘记我。喝完茶后，我在房间里坐起来，心情有些低落，当那个浑身是泥、破破烂烂的大包袱被送到我面前时，我只是抱着它，欢腾雀跃。它是如此温馨和清新，我坐在地板上，以我惯常的荒谬方式读书、观看、吃饭、笑、哭。这些东西正是我想要的，而且是自己制作的，而不是购买的。贝丝的新“墨水围脖”是资本，而汉娜的一盒硬姜饼将是一个宝藏。妈妈，我一定会穿上你送来的漂亮法兰绒衣服，并仔细阅读父亲标记的书。谢谢大家，多多多多！

Speaking of books reminds me that I’m getting rich in that line, for on New Year’s Day Mr. Bhaer gave me a fine Shakespeare. It is one he values much, and I’ve often admired it, set up in the place of honor with his German Bible, Plato, Homer, and Milton, so you may imagine how I felt when he brought it down, without its cover, and showed me my own name in it, ‘from my friend Friedrich Bhaer”.
说到书，我就想起我在这方面发了财，因为元旦那天，巴尔先生给了我一本很好的莎士比亚作品。这是他非常珍视的一本，我经常欣赏它，与他的德文《圣经》、柏拉图、荷马和弥尔顿一起放在荣誉的地方，所以你可以想象当他把它拆下来，没有封面时我的感受，并向我展示了我自己的名字，“来自我的朋友弗里德里希·巴尔”。

‘You say often you wish a library. Here I gif you one, for between these lids (he meant covers) is many books in one. Read him well, and he will help you much, for the study of character in this book will help you to read it in the world and paint it with your pen.’
“你经常说你想要一个图书馆。这里我给你一张，因为在这些盖子之间（他的意思是封面）是很多书合一的。好好读读他，对你会有很大的帮助，因为学习这本书里的人物，可以帮助你读懂世事，用笔来描绘它。

I thanked him as well as I could, and talk now about ‘my library’, as if I had a hundred books. I never knew how much there was in Shakespeare before, but then I never had a Bhaer to explain it to me. Now don’t laugh at his horrid name. It isn’t pronounced either Bear or Beer, as people will say it, but something between the two, as only Germans can give it. I’m glad you both like what I tell you about him, and hope you will know him some day. Mother would admire his warm heart, Father his wise head. I admire both, and feel rich in my new ‘friend Friedrich Bhaer’.
我尽可能地感谢他，现在谈论“我的图书馆”，就好像我有一百本书一样。我以前从来不知道莎士比亚有多少内容，但后来我从来没有巴尔向我解释过。现在不要嘲笑他可怕的名字。它不像人们所说的那样发音为“Bear”或“Beer”，而是介于两者之间的发音，因为只有德国人才能发音。我很高兴你们都喜欢我告诉你们的关于他的事情，并希望有一天你们能认识他。母亲会欣赏他温暖的心，父亲会欣赏他聪明的头脑。我很欣赏这两个人，并且对我的新“朋友弗里德里希·巴尔”感到很富有。

Not having much money, or knowing what he’d like, I got several little things, and put them about the room, where he would find them unexpectedly. They were useful, pretty, or funny, a new standish on his table, a little vase for his flower, he always has one, or a bit of green in a glass, to keep him fresh, he says, and a holder for his blower, so that he needn’t burn up what Amy calls ‘mouchoirs’. I made it like those Beth invented, a big butterfly with a fat body, and black and yellow wings, worsted feelers, and bead eyes. It took his fancy immensely, and he put it on his mantlepiece as an article of virtue, so it was rather a failure after all. Poor as he is, he didn’t forget a servant or a child in the house, and not a soul here, from the French laundrywoman to Miss Norton forgot him. I was so glad of that.
由于没有多少钱，也不知道他想要什么，我买了一些小东西，把它们放在房间里，他会在那里意外地找到它们。它们很有用，很漂亮，或者很有趣，他的桌子上有一个新的支架，一个装他的花的小花瓶，他总是有一个，或者在玻璃杯里放一点绿色，让他保持新鲜，他说，还有一个他的花架。鼓风机，这样他就不必烧毁艾米所说的“mouchoirs”。我把它做得像贝丝发明的那样，一只大蝴蝶，身体肥胖，翅膀黑黄相间，触须精纺，眼睛珠子。它非常吸引他的注意，他把它作为一件美德放在壁炉架上，所以这毕竟是一个失败。尽管他很穷，但他没有忘记家里的一个仆人或一个孩子，也没有忘记这里的一个灵魂，从法国洗衣女工到诺顿小姐都忘记了他。我对此感到非常高兴。

They got up a masquerade, and had a gay time New Year’s Eve. I didn’t mean to go down, having no dress. But at the last minute, Mrs. Kirke remembered some old brocades, and Miss Norton lent me lace and feathers. So I dressed up as Mrs. Malaprop, and sailed in with a mask on. No one knew me, for I disguised my voice, and no one dreamed of the silent, haughty Miss March (for they think I am very stiff and cool, most of them, and so I am to whippersnappers) could dance and dress, and burst out into a ‘nice derangement of epitaphs, like an allegory on the banks of the Nile’. I enjoyed it very much, and when we unmasked it was fun to see them stare at me. I heard one of the young men tell another that he knew I’d been an actress, in fact, he thought he remembered seeing me at one of the minor theaters. Meg will relish that joke. Mr. Bhaer was Nick Bottom, and Tina was Titania, a perfect little fairy in his arms. To see them dance was ‘quite a landscape’, to use a Teddyism.
他们举行了化装舞会，度过了愉快的除夕夜。我没穿衣服，不想下去。但在最后一刻，柯克夫人想起了一些旧锦缎，诺顿小姐借给了我蕾丝和羽毛。于是我打扮成马拉普罗普夫人，戴着面具乘船进去。没有人认识我，因为我掩饰了自己的声音，也没有人梦想沉默、傲慢的马奇小姐（因为他们中的大多数人都认为我很僵硬、很酷，所以我对自以为是的人来说）会跳舞和穿衣，并且突然爆发出“墓志铭的优美混乱，就像尼罗河畔的寓言”。我非常喜欢它，当我们摘下面具时，看到他们盯着我看很有趣。我听到其中一个年轻人告诉另一个年轻人，他知道我曾是一名演员，事实上，他认为他记得在一家小剧院见过我。梅格会喜欢这个笑话的。巴尔先生就是尼克·波顿，蒂娜就是泰坦妮娅，他怀里的完美小仙女。用泰迪主义的话说，看它们跳舞“真是一道风景”。

I had a very happy New Year, after all, and when I thought it over in my room, I felt as if I was getting on a little in spite of my many failures, for I’m cheerful all the time now, work with a will, and take more interest in other people than I used to, which is satisfactory. Bless you all! Ever your loving... Jo
毕竟，我度过了一个非常快乐的新年，当我在房间里回想起来时，我觉得尽管我经历了很多失败，但我还是进步了一些，因为我现在一直很高兴，与意志，并且比以前对别人更感兴趣，这是令人满意的。祝福你们！永远是你的爱人...乔

CHAPTER THIRTY-FOUR
第三十四章

Though very happy in the social atmosphere about her, and very busy with the daily work that earned her bread and made it sweeter for the effort, Jo still found time for literary labors. The purpose which now took possession of her was a natural one to a poor and ambitious girl, but the means she took to gain her end were not the best. She saw that money conferred power, therefore, she resolved to have, not to be used for herself alone, but for those whom she loved more than life.
尽管乔对周围的社交氛围感到非常高兴，而且每天的工作也很忙碌，这为她赢得了面包，让她的努力变得更加甜蜜，但乔仍然抽出时间从事文学工作。对于一个贫穷而雄心勃勃的女孩来说，她现在的目标是很自然的，但她为达到目的而采取的手段并不是最好的。她看到金钱赋予了权力，因此，她决心不只为自己使用金钱，而是为那些她所爱的人胜过生命。

The dream of filling home with comforts, giving Beth everything she wanted, from strawberries in winter to an organ in her bedroom, going abroad herself, and always having more than enough, so that she might indulge in the luxury of charity, had been for years Jo’s most cherished castle in the air.
让家里充满舒适感，给贝丝她想要的一切，从冬天的草莓到卧室里的风琴，自己出国，总是有足够的东西，这样她就可以沉迷于慈善事业的奢侈，这个梦想一直是她的梦想。多年来乔最珍视的空中楼阁。

The prize-story experience had seemed to open a way which might, after long traveling and much uphill work, lead to this delightful chateau en Espagne. But the novel disaster quenched her courage for a time, for public opinion is a giant which has frightened stouter-hearted Jacks on bigger beanstalks than hers. Like that immortal hero, she reposed awhile after the first attempt, which resulted in a tumble and the least lovely of the giant’s treasures, if I remember rightly. But the ‘up again and take another’ spirit was as strong in Jo as in Jack, so she scrambled up on the shady side this time and got more booty, but nearly left behind her what was far more precious than the moneybags.
这次获奖经历似乎开辟了一条道路，经过长途旅行和艰苦的工作后，这条道路可能通向这座令人愉快的西班牙城堡。但这场新奇的灾难一度浇灭了她的勇气，因为公众舆论是一个巨人，它吓坏了比她的豆茎更坚强的杰克。就像那位不朽的英雄一样，她在第一次尝试后休息了一会儿，结果摔倒了，如果我没记错的话，这是巨人的宝藏中最不可爱的。但乔和杰克一样有着“再次站起来，再拿下一个”的精神，所以这次她爬到了阴暗的一边，得到了更多的战利品，但几乎留下了比钱袋更珍贵的东西。

She took to writing sensation stories, for in those dark ages, even all-perfect America read rubbish. She told no one, but concocted a ‘thrilling tale’, and boldly carried it herself to Mr. Dashwood, editor of the Weekly Volcano. She had never read Sartor Resartus, but she had a womanly instinct that clothes possess an influence more powerful over many than the worth of character or the magic of manners. So she dressed herself in her best, and trying to persuade herself that she was neither excited nor nervous, bravely climbed two pairs of dark and dirty stairs to find herself in a disorderly room, a cloud of cigar smoke, and the presence of three gentlemen, sitting with their heels rather higher than their hats, which articles of dress none of them took the trouble to remove on her appearance. somewhat daunted by this reception, Jo hesitated on the threshold, murmuring in much embarrassment...
她开始写耸人听闻的故事，因为在那个黑暗时代，即使是完美的美国也会读垃圾。她没有告诉任何人，而是编造了一个“惊心动魄的故事”，并大胆地亲自向《火山周刊》的编辑达什伍德先生讲述。她从未读过《萨托·雷萨图斯》，但她有一种女性的本能，认为服装对许多人的影响比品格价值或举止魅力更强大。于是她穿上自己最好的衣服，努力说服自己既不兴奋也不紧张，勇敢地爬上两对又黑又脏的楼梯，发现自己身处在一个凌乱的房间里，烟雾缭绕，出现了三位绅士。坐着的时候，他们的脚后跟比帽子还高，但没有一个人不厌其烦地把这些衣服从她的外表上脱掉。乔被这样的接待吓到了，在门口犹豫着，尴尬地低声说道……

‘Excuse me, I was looking for the Weekly Volcano office. I wished to see Mr. Dashwood.’
“对不起，我正在寻找《火山周刊》办公室。我想见达什伍德先生。

Down went the highest pair of heels, up rose the smokiest gentleman, and carefully cherishing his cigar between his fingers, he advanced with a nod and a countenance expressive of nothing but sleep. Feeling that she must get through the matter somehow, Jo produced her manuscript and, blushing redder and redder with each sentence, blundered out fragments of the little speech carefully prepared for the occasion.
最高的一双高跟鞋落了下来，烟熏得最厉害的绅士站了起来，他小心翼翼地夹着手指间的雪茄，点点头，脸上除了睡意外别无表情。乔觉得自己必须想办法解决这件事，于是拿出了手稿，每说一句话，脸都变得更红，结结巴巴地说出了为这个场合精心准备的简短演讲的片段。

‘A friend of mine desired me to offer—a story—just as an experiment—would like your opinion—be glad to write more if this suits.’
“我的一个朋友希望我提供——一个故事——就像一个实验——想听听你的意见——如果合适的话，很高兴写更多。”

While she blushed and blundered, Mr. Dashwood had taken the manuscript, and was turning over the leaves with a pair of rather dirty fingers, and casting critical glances up and down the neat pages.
当她满脸通红、结结巴巴的时候，达什伍德先生已经接过手稿，用一双相当脏的手指翻动书页，对整齐的书页上下打量着。

‘Not a first attempt, I take it?’ observing that the pages were numbered, covered only on one side, and not tied up with a ribbon—sure sign of a novice.
“我想这不是第一次尝试吧？”观察到这些页面都已编号，仅一侧被覆盖，并且没有用丝带绑起来——这显然是新手的标志。

‘No, sir. She has had some experience, and got a prize for a tale in the BLARNEYSTONE BANNER.’
'不，先生。她有一些经验，并因《巧言石横幅》中的一个故事而获奖。

‘Oh, did she?’ And Mr. Dashwood gave JO a quick look, which seemed to take note of everything she had on, from the bow in her bonnet to the buttons on her boots. ‘Well, you can leave it, if you like. We’ve more of this sort of thing on hand than we know what to do with at present, but I’ll run my eye over it, and give you an answer next week.’
“哦，是吗？”达什伍德先生快速地看了乔一眼，似乎注意到了她穿的一切，从帽子上的蝴蝶结到靴子上的纽扣。 ‘好吧，如果你愿意的话，你可以把它留下。我们手头上的此类事情比我们目前知道的要多，但我会仔细检查，并在下周给你答案。

Now, Jo did not like to leave it, for Mr. Dashwood didn’t suit her at all, but, under the circumstances, there was nothing for her to do but bow and walk away, looking particularly tall and dignified, as she was apt to do when nettled or abashed. Just then she was both, for it was perfectly evident from the knowing glances exchanged among the gentlemen that her little fiction of ‘my friend’ was considered a good joke, and a laugh, produced by some inaudible remark of the editor, as he closed the door, completed her discomfiture. Half resolving never to return, she went home, and worked off her irritation by stitching pinafores vigorously, and in an hour or two was cool enough to laugh over the scene and long for next week.
现在，乔不愿意离开，因为达什伍德先生根本不适合她，但在这种情况下，她也没有什么办法，只能鞠躬走开，显得格外高大威严，就像她一样当恼怒或羞愧时容易这样做。就在那时，她既是，因为从先生们相互交换的会意的眼神中可以明显看出，她那篇关于“我的朋友”的小小说被认为是一个很好的笑话，当编辑结束时，她的一些听不见的评论引起了一阵笑声。门，完成了她的狼狈。她半决定再也不回来了，于是她回到家，用力缝合围裙来发泄心中的烦躁，一两个小时后，她就冷静下来，可以对这一幕大笑起来，并期待下周的到来。

When she went again, Mr. Dashwood was alone, whereat she rejoiced. Mr. Dashwood was much wider awake than before, which was agreeable and Mr. Dashwood was not too deeply absorbed in a cigar to remember his manners, so the second interview was much more comfortable than the first.
当她再次去时，达什伍德先生独自一人，她为此感到高兴。达什伍德先生比以前更加清醒，这很令人愉快，而且达什伍德先生并没有太沉迷于雪茄而记不住他的举止，所以第二次采访比第一次舒服得多。

‘We’ll take this (editors never say I), if you don’t object to a few alterations. It’s too long, but omitting the passages I’ve marked will make it just the right length,’ he said, in a businesslike tone.
“如果你不反对做一些修改，我们就会接受这个（编辑们从来不会说我）。”它太长了，但是省略我标记的段落就会使它的长度合适。”他用公事公办的语气说道。

Jo hardly knew her own MS again, so crumpled and underscored were its pages and paragraphs, but feeling as a tender patent might on being asked to cut off her baby’s legs in order that it might fit into a new cradle, she looked at the marked passages and was surprised to find that all the moral reflections—which she had carefully put in as ballast for much romance—had been stricken out.
乔几乎不认识她自己的MS了，它的页面和段落都皱巴巴的，有下划线，但感觉就像一个温柔的专利可能被要求切断她婴儿的腿，以便它可以适合一个新的摇篮，她看着标记她惊奇地发现，所有的道德反思——她小心翼翼地放入其中，作为浪漫的镇流器——都被剔除掉了。

‘But, Sir, I thought every story should have some sort of a moral, so I took care to have a few of my sinners repent.’
“但是，先生，我认为每个故事都应该有某种寓意，所以我小心翼翼地让一些罪人悔改。”

Mr. Dashwoods’s editorial gravity relaxed into a smile, for Jo had forgotten her ‘friend’, and spoken as only an author could.
达什伍兹先生的社论严肃放松成了微笑，因为乔已经忘记了她的“朋友”，并且以只有作家才能做到的方式说话。

‘People want to be amused, not preached at, you know. Morals don’t sell nowadays.’ Which was not quite a correct statement, by the way.
“你知道，人们想要的是被逗乐，而不是被说教。道德现在已经不畅销了。”顺便说一句，这并不是一个正确的说法。

‘You think it would do with these alterations, then?’
“那么你认为这些改变会起作用吗？”

‘Yes, it’s a new plot, and pretty well worked up—language good, and so on,’ was Mr. Dashwood’s affable reply.
“是的，这是一个新情节，而且制作得很好——语言也很好，等等，”达什伍德先生和蔼可亲地回答道。

‘What do you—that is, what compensation—‘ began Jo, not exactly knowing how to express herself.
“你做什么——也就是说，补偿什么——”乔开始说道，不太知道如何表达自己。

‘Oh, yes, well, we give from twenty-five to thirty for things of this sort. Pay when it comes out,’ returned Mr. Dashwood, as if that point had escaped him. Such trifles do escape the editorial mind, it is said.
“哦，是的，好吧，对于这类事情，我们给予二十五到三十美元。出来就付钱。”达什伍德先生回答道，好像他没有注意到这一点。据说，这样的琐事确实逃过了编辑的头脑。

‘Very well, you can have it,’ said Jo, handing back the story with a satisfied air, for after the dollar-a-column work, even twenty-five seemed good pay.
“很好，你可以接受它，”乔带着满意的神情把这篇文章还给你，因为在完成了一篇专栏的工作后，即使是二十五美元似乎也不错了。

‘Shall I tell my friend you will take another if she has one better than this?’ asked Jo, unconscious of her little slip of the tongue, and emboldened by her success.
“要我告诉我的朋友，如果她有比这个更好的，你会再买一个吗？”乔问，她没有意识到自己的小失言，并因她的成功而更加大胆。

‘Well, we’ll look at it. Can’t promise to take it. Tell her to make it short and spicy, and never mind the moral. What name would your friend like to put on it?’ in a careless tone.
‘好吧，我们会看看。不能答应接受。告诉她要简短而辛辣，不要介意道德。你的朋友想给它起什么名字？”语气漫不经心。

‘None at all, if you please, she doesn’t wish her name to appear and has no nom de plume,’ said Jo, blushing in spite of herself.
“一点也没有，如果你愿意的话，她不希望自己的名字出现，也没有笔名，”乔说，不由自主地脸红了。

‘Just as she likes, of course. The tale will be out next week. Will you call for the money, or shall I send it?’ asked Mr. Dashwood, who felt a natural desire to know who his new contributor might be.
“当然，随她喜欢。”这个故事将于下周出版。 “你会打电话要钱，还是我寄钱？”达什伍德先生问道，他很自然地想知道他的新捐助者可能是谁。

‘I’ll call. Good morning, Sir.’
'我会打电话。早上好先生。'

As she departed, Mr. Dashwood put up his feet, with the graceful remark, ‘Poor and proud, as usual, but she’ll do.’
当她离开时，达什伍德先生抬起脚，优雅地说：“像往常一样，贫穷而自豪，但她会的。”

Following Mr. Dashwood’s directions, and making Mrs. Northbury her model, Jo rashly took a plunge into the frothy sea of sensational literature, but thanks to the life preserver thrown her by a friend, she came up again not much the worse for her ducking.
按照达什伍德先生的指示，乔以诺斯伯里夫人为模特，鲁莽地跳进了耸人听闻的文学泡沫海洋，但多亏了朋友扔给她的救生圈，她又浮上来，并没有因为躲避而变得更糟。 。

Like most young scribblers, she went abroad for her characters and scenery, and banditti, counts, gypsies, nuns, and duchesses appeared upon her stage, and played their parts with as much accuracy and spirit as could be expected. Her readers were not particular about such trifles as grammar, punctuation, and probability, and Mr. Dashwood graciously permitted her to fill his columns at the lowest prices, not thinking it necessary to tell her that the real cause of his hospitality was the fact that one of his hacks, on being offered higher wages, had basely left him in the lurch.
像大多数年轻的涂鸦作家一样，她出国寻找她的人物和风景，强盗、伯爵、吉普赛人、修女和公爵夫人出现在她的舞台上，并以尽可能准确和精神的方式扮演他们的角色。她的读者对语法、标点符号和概率等琐事并不挑剔，达什伍德先生慷慨地允许她以最低的价格填写他的专栏，认为没有必要告诉她，他热情好客的真正原因是他的一名黑客在获得更高的工资后，卑鄙地让他陷入了困境。

She soon became interested in her work, for her emaciated purse grew stout, and the little hoard she was making to take Beth to the mountains next summer grew slowly but surely as the weeks passed. One thing disturbed her satisfaction, and that was that she did not tell them at home. She had a feeling that Father and Mother would not approve, and preferred to have her own way first, and beg pardon afterward. It was easy to keep her secret, for no name appeared with her stories. Mr. Dashwood had of course found it out very soon, but promised to be dumb, and for a wonder kept his word.
她很快就对自己的工作产生了兴趣，因为她瘦弱的钱包变得鼓鼓囊囊，而她为明年夏天带贝丝去山上而攒下的小钱，随着几周的过去，缓慢但肯定地增长了。有件事让她感到不安，那就是她没有在家里告诉他们。她总有一种父亲和母亲不会同意的感觉，她宁愿先我行我素，然后再求饶。保守她的秘密很容易，因为她的故事中没有出现名字。达什伍德先生当然很快就发现了这一点，但他答应保持沉默，令人惊奇的是他信守诺言。

She thought it would do her no harm, for she sincerely meant to write nothing of which she would be ashamed, and quieted all pricks of conscience by anticipations of the happy minute when she should show her earnings and laugh over her well-kept secret.
她认为这不会对她造成伤害，因为她真诚地不想写任何令她感到羞耻的东西，并通过期待幸福的时刻来平息所有良心的刺痛，那时她应该展示她的收入并嘲笑她保守的秘密。

But Mr. Dashwood rejected any but thrilling tales, and as thrills could not be produced except by harrowing up the souls of the readers, history and romance, land and sea, science and art, police records and lunatic asylums, had to be ransacked for the purpose. Jo soon found that her innocent experience had given her but few glimpses of the tragic world which underlies society, so regarding it in a business light, she set about supplying her deficiencies with characteristic energy. Eager to find material for stories, and bent on making them original in plot, if not masterly in execution, she searched newspapers for accidents, incidents, and crimes. She excited the suspicions of public librarians by asking for works on poisons. She studied faces in the street, and characters, good, bad, and indifferent, all about her. She delved in the dust of ancient times for facts or fictions so old that they were as good as new, and introduced herself to folly, sin, and misery, as well as her limited opportunities allowed. She thought she was prospering finely, but unconsciously she was beginning to desecrate some of the womanliest attributes of a woman’s character. She was living in bad society, and imaginary though it was, its influence affected her, for she was feeding heart and fancy on dangerous and unsubstantial food, and was fast brushing the innocent bloom from her nature by a premature acquaintance with the darker side of life, which comes soon enough to all of us.
但达什伍德先生只拒绝惊心动魄的故事，因为只有通过折磨读者的灵魂才能产生惊悚，所以必须翻遍历史和浪漫、陆地和海洋、科学和艺术、警察记录和疯人院。目的。乔很快发现，她天真的经历让她对社会底层的悲惨世界知之甚少，因此从商业角度看待它，她开始用特有的能量来弥补自己的缺陷。她热衷于寻找故事素材，并一心想让它们的情节具有原创性，即使执行得不够巧妙，她在报纸上搜索事故、事件和犯罪事件。她索取有关毒药的著作，引起了公共图书馆员的怀疑。她研究街上的面孔和人物，好人、坏人、冷漠的人，全都与她有关。她在古代的尘埃中钻研，寻找那些古老得和新的一样的事实或小说，并让自己陷入愚蠢、罪恶和痛苦，以及她所允许的有限的机会。她以为自己过得很好，但不知不觉中，她开始亵渎女性性格中最女性化的一些特质。她生活在一个糟糕的社会里，虽然这是想象中的，但它的影响影响了她，因为她用危险和虚无的食物喂养心灵和幻想，并且由于过早地认识了社会的阴暗面，很快就把天真的花朵从她的天性中抹去了。生命，对我们所有人来说都很快到来。

She was beginning to feel rather than see this, for much describing of other people’s passions and feelings set her to studying and speculating about her own. a morbid amusement in which healthy young minds do not voluntarily indulge. Wrongdoing always brings its own punishment, and when Jo most needed hers, she got it.
她开始感觉到而不是看到这一点，因为对别人的激情和感受的大量描述让她开始研究和推测自己的激情和感受。这是一种病态的娱乐，健康的年轻人不会自愿沉迷其中。做错事总是会带来惩罚，而当乔最需要惩罚时，她得到了惩罚。

I don’t know whether the study of Shakespeare helped her to read character, or the natural instinct of a woman for what was honest, brave, and strong, but while endowing her imaginary heroes with every perfection under the sun, Jo was discovering a live hero, who interested her in spite of many human imperfections. Mr. Bhaer, in one of their conversations, had advised her to study simple, true, and lovely characters, wherever she found them, as good training for a writer. Jo took him at his word, for she coolly turned round and studied him—a proceeding which would have much surprised him, had he know it, for the worthy Professor was very humble in his own conceit.
我不知道莎士比亚的研究是否帮助她解读了性格，或者是一个女人对诚实、勇敢和坚强的本能，但在赋予她想象中的英雄以完美的阳光下，乔发现了一种活生生的英雄，尽管人类有许多缺陷，但她仍然对他感兴趣。巴尔先生在他们的一次谈话中建议她研究简单、真实和可爱的角色，无论她在哪里找到它们，作为对作家的良好训练。乔相信了他的话，因为她冷静地转过身来打量着他——如果他知道的话，这一举动会让他大吃一惊，因为这位可敬的教授自以为非常谦虚。

Why everybody liked him was what puzzled Jo, at first. He was neither rich nor great, young nor handsome, in no respect what is called fascinating, imposing, or brilliant, and yet he was as attractive as a genial fire, and people seemed to gather about him as naturally as about a warm hearth. He was poor, yet always appeared to be giving something away; a stranger, yet everyone was his friend; no longer young, but as happy-hearted as a boy; plain and peculiar, yet his face looked beautiful to many, and his oddities were freely forgiven for his sake. Jo often watched him, trying to discover the charm, and at last decided that it was benevolence which worked the miracle. If he had any sorrow, ‘it sat with its head under its wing’, and he turned only his sunny side to the world. There were lines upon his forehead, but Time seemed to have touched him gently, remembering how kind he was to others. The pleasant curves about his mouth were the memorials of many friendly words and cheery laughs, his eyes were never cold or hard, and his big hand had a warm, strong grasp that was more expressive than words.
起初，乔很困惑为什么每个人都喜欢他。他既不富有，也不显赫，年轻，也不英俊，谈不上什么迷人、气势、才华横溢，但他却像一团和煦的火一样吸引人，人们似乎自然地聚集在他周围，就像聚集在温暖的炉边一样。他很穷，但似乎总是在捐献一些东西。一个陌生人，但每个人都是他的朋友；不再年轻，却像男孩一样快乐；朴素而奇特，但他的脸在许多人看来却很美丽，而且他的怪异行为也因为他的缘故而得到了宽恕。乔经常观察他，试图发现他的魅力，最后认定是仁慈创造了奇迹。如果他有任何悲伤，“它会把头藏在翅膀下”，他只把自己阳光明媚的一面转向世界。他的额头上有皱纹，但时间似乎温柔地抚摸着他，记住了他对别人的友善。他嘴角那一抹令人愉悦的弧度，是许多友善话语和欢快笑声的纪念，他的目光从不冰冷或严厉，他的大手温暖而有力，比言语更能表达。

His very clothes seemed to partake of the hospitable nature of the wearer. They looked as if they were at ease, and liked to make him comfortable. His capacious waistcoat was suggestive of a large heart underneath. His rusty coat had a social air, and the baggy pockets plainly proved that little hands often went in empty and came out full. His very boots were benevolent, and his collars never stiff and raspy like other people’s.
他的衣服似乎体现了穿着者的好客本性。他们看上去很自在，喜欢让他舒服。他宽大的背心让人联想到里面有一颗大心脏。他生锈的外套有一种社交气息，而宽松的口袋显然证明了他的小手经常进去空空的，出来时却装满了。他的靴子很仁慈，他的衣领也不像其他人那样僵硬和刺耳。

‘That’s it!’ said Jo to herself, when she at length discovered that genuine good will toward one’s fellow men could beautify and dignify even a stout German teacher, who shoveled in his dinner, darned his own socks, and was burdened with the name of Bhaer.
“就是这样！”乔对自己说，当她终于发现，对同胞的真诚善意可以使一位粗壮的德国老师变得美化和尊严时，他会铲掉自己的晚餐，自己补袜子，并背负着名字的重担。巴尔的。

Jo valued goodness highly, but she also possessed a most feminine respect for intellect, and a little discovery which she made about the Professor added much to her regard for him. He never spoke of himself, and no one ever knew that in his native city he had been a man much honored and esteemed for learning and integrity, till a countryman came to see him. He never spoke of himself, and in a conversation with Miss Norton divulged the pleasing fact. From her Jo learned it, and liked it all the better because Mr. Bhaer had never told it. She felt proud to know that he was an honored Professor in Berlin, though only a poor language-master in America, and his homely, hard-working life was much beautified by the spice of romance which this discovery gave it. Another and a better gift than intellect was shown her in a most unexpected manner. Miss Norton had the entree into most society, which Jo would have had no chance of seeing but for her. The solitary woman felt an interest in the ambitious girl, and kindly conferred many favors of this sort both on Jo and the Professor. She took them with her one night to a select symposium, held in honor of several celebrities.
乔高度重视善良，但她也对才智抱有最女性化的尊重，她对教授的一个小发现增加了她对他的尊重。他从不谈论自己，也没有人知道他在自己的家乡曾是一位因学问和正直而备受尊敬和尊敬的人，直到一位乡下人来看他。他从不谈论自己，在与诺顿小姐的谈话中透露了这个令人高兴的事实。乔从她那里得知了这一点，并且更加喜欢它，因为巴尔先生从未告诉过它。当她知道他是柏林一位受人尊敬的教授时，她感到很自豪，尽管在美国只是一位贫穷的语言大师，而他朴素而勤奋的生活因这一发现而增添了浪漫的色彩。另一种比智力更好的天赋以一种最意想不到的方式展现给了她。诺顿小姐已经进入了大多数社会，如果不是她，乔就没有机会看到这一点。这位孤独的女人对这位雄心勃勃的女孩产生了兴趣，并善意地给予乔和教授许多此类恩惠。一天晚上，她带着他们去参加一场为纪念几位名人而举办的精选研讨会。

Jo went prepared to bow down and adore the mighty ones whom she had worshiped with youthful enthusiasm afar off. But her reverence for genius received a severe shock that night, and it took her some time to recover from the discovery that the great creatures were only men and women after all. Imagine her dismay, on stealing a glance of timid admiration at the poet whose lines suggested an ethereal being fed on ‘spirit, fire, and dew’, to behold him devouring his supper with an ardor which flushed his intellectual countenance. Turning as from a fallen idol, she made other discoveries which rapidly dispelled her romantic illusions. The great novelist vibrated between two decanters with the regularity of a pendulum; the famous divine flirted openly with one of the Madame de Staels of the age, who looked daggers at another Corinne, who was amiably satirizing her, after outmaneuvering her in efforts to absorb the profound philosopher, who imbibed tea Johnsonianly and appeared to slumber, the loquacity of the lady rendering speech impossible. The scientific celebrities, forgetting their mollusks and glacial periods, gossiped about art, while devoting themselves to oysters and ices with characteristic energy; the young musician, who was charming the city like a second Orpheus, talked horses; and the specimen of the British nobility present happened to be the most ordinary man of the party.
乔准备好向那些她曾在远处用青春的热情崇拜过的强大者顶礼膜拜。但那天晚上，她对天才的崇敬之心受到了严重的打击，过了好一会儿，她才发现伟大的生物终究只是男人和女人。想象一下，当她偷偷地瞥了一眼这位诗人时，她感到沮丧，他的诗句暗示着一种以“精神、火和露水”为食的空灵，看到他以一种热情狼吞虎咽的方式吃晚饭，这让他知识分子的面容泛红。如同从堕落的偶像中走出来一样，她的其他发现迅速驱散了她的浪漫幻想。这位伟大的小说家在两个醒酒器之间以钟摆的规律振动。这位著名的神明与当时的一位德·斯塔尔夫人公开调情，这位德·斯塔尔斯夫人对另一位科琳娜目光尖刻，科琳娜在努力吸引这位深奥的哲学家之后，友善地讽刺了她，后者喝了约翰逊式的茶，似乎睡着了，这位女士的多嘴使讲话变得不可能。科学名人忘记了他们的软体动物和冰川时期，谈论艺术，而专注于具有特有能量的牡蛎和冰；这位年轻的音乐家像第二个俄耳甫斯一样迷住了这座城市，他谈论马。而在场的英国贵族的典型，恰好是聚会中最普通的一个人。

Before the evening was half over, Jo felt so completely disillusioned, that she sat down in a corner to recover herself. Mr. Bhaer soon joined her, looking rather out of his element, and presently several of the philosophers, each mounted on his hobby, came ambling up to hold an intellectual tournament in the recess. The conversations were miles beyond Jo’s comprehension, but she enjoyed it, though Kant and Hegel were unknown gods, the Subjective and Objective unintelligible terms, and the only thing ‘evolved from her inner consciousness’ was a bad headache after it was all over. It dawned upon her gradually that the world was being picked to pieces, and put together on new and, according to the talkers, on infinitely better principles than before, that religion was in a fair way to be reasoned into nothingness, and intellect was to be the only God. Jo knew nothing about philosophy or metaphysics of any sort, but a curious excitement, half pleasurable, half painful, came over her as she listened with a sense of being turned adrift into time and space, like a young balloon out on a holiday.
晚上还没过半，乔就感到彻底幻灭了，她坐在角落里让自己平静下来。巴尔先生很快就加入了她，看起来有点不合时宜，不久，几位哲学家，各自发挥自己的爱好，慢悠悠地走过来，在课间休息时举办一场智力比赛。这些谈话超出了乔的理解范围，但她很享受，尽管康德和黑格尔是未知的神，主观和客观难以理解的术语，唯一“从她的内心意识中演变而来”的东西是一切结束后的头痛。她逐渐意识到，世界正在被拆散，并按照新的、根据谈话者所说的、比以前好得多的原则拼凑起来，宗教可以合理地被推理为虚无，而智力则可以被推理为虚无。成为唯一的神。乔对任何形式的哲学或形而上学一无所知，但当她聆听时，一种奇怪的兴奋感笼罩着她，一半是快乐，一半是痛苦，她有一种在时间和空间中漂流的感觉，就像一个度假的年轻气球。

She looked round to see how the Professor liked it, and found him looking at her with the grimest expression she had ever seen him wear. He shook his head and beckoned her to come away, but she was fascinated just then by the freedom of Speculative Philosophy, and kept her seat, trying to find out what the wise gentlemen intended to rely upon after they had annihilated all the old beliefs.
她环顾四周，想看看教授是否喜欢这样，结果发现他正用一种她从未见过的最严肃的表情看着她。他摇摇头，示意她走开，但她此时却被思辨哲学的自由所吸引，留在了座位上，试图找出智者们在消灭了所有旧信仰后到底想依靠什么。

Now, Mr. Bhaer was a diffident man and slow to offer his own opinions, not because they were unsettled, but too sincere and earnest to be lightly spoken. As he glanced from Jo to several other young people, attracted by the brilliancy of the philosophic pyrotechnics, he knit his brows and longed to speak, fearing that some inflammable young soul would be led astray by the rockets, to find when the display was over that they had only an empty stick or a scorched hand.
现在，巴尔先生是个胆怯的人，他迟迟不肯提出自己的意见，不是因为意见不稳定，而是因为他太真诚、太认真了，不能轻易说出口。当他的目光从乔身上移到其他几个年轻人时，他被哲学烟火的辉煌所吸引，皱起了眉头，渴望说话，担心一些易怒的年轻人会被火箭引入歧途，等到表演结束时他们只有一根空棍子或一只烧焦的手。

He bore it as long as he could, but when he was appealed to for an opinion, he blazed up with honest indignation and defended religion with all the eloquence of truth—an eloquence which made his broken English musical and his plain face beautiful. He had a hard fight, for the wise men argued well, but he didn’t know when he was beaten and stood to his colors like a man. Somehow, as he talked, the world got right again to Jo. The old beliefs, that had lasted so long, seemed better than the new. God was not a blind force, and immortality was not a pretty fable, but a blessed fact. She felt as if she had solid ground under her feet again, and when Mr. Bhaer paused, outtalked but not one whit convinced, Jo wanted to clap her hands and thank him.
他尽可能地忍受着，但当有人征求他的意见时，他勃然大怒，用所有真理的雄辩来捍卫宗教——这种雄辩使他蹩脚的英国音乐剧和他朴素的脸变得美丽。他打了一场艰苦的仗，因为智者们争论得很好，但他不知道什么时候被打败了，像个男人一样坚持自己的立场。不知何故，当他说话时，乔的世界又恢复了正常。持续了很长时间的旧信念似乎比新信念更好。上帝不是盲目的力量，永生也不是美丽的寓言，而是一个幸福的事实。她感觉自己的脚下又踏上了坚实的土地，当巴尔先生停下来，说话超过但没有丝毫说服力时，乔想拍手感谢他。

She did neither, but she remembered the scene, and gave the Professor her heartiest respect, for she knew it cost him an effort to speak out then and there, because his conscience would not let him be silent. She began to see that character is a better possession than money, rank, intellect, or beauty, and to feel that if greatness is what a wise man has defined it to be, ‘truth, reverence, and good will’, then her friend friedrich Bhaer was not only good, but great.
她什么也没做，但她记得那一幕，并对教授表示最衷心的敬意，因为她知道他当时费了很大的力气才说出来，因为他的良心不允许他保持沉默。她开始认识到，品格比金钱、地位、才智或美貌更重要，并且觉得如果智者将伟大定义为“真理、敬畏和善意”，那么她的朋友弗里德里希·巴尔不仅优秀，而且伟大。

This belief strengthened daily. She valued his esteem, she coveted his respect, she wanted to be worthy of his friendship, and just when the wish was sincerest, she came near to losing everything. It all grew out of a cocked hat, for one evening the Professor came in to give Jo her lesson with a paper soldier cap on his head, which Tina had put there and he had forgotten to take off.
这种信念日益增强。她珍视他的尊重，她渴望他的尊重，她想配得上他的友谊，而就在这个愿望最真诚的时候，她几乎失去了一切。这一切都源于一顶三角帽，有一天晚上，教授进来给乔上课，头上戴着一顶纸制士兵帽，蒂娜把它放在那里，他忘了摘下来。

‘It’s evident he doesn’t look in his glass before coming down,’ thought Jo, with a smile, as he said ‘Goot efening,’ and sat soberly down, quite unconscious of the ludicrous contrast between his subject and his headgear, for he was going to read her the Death of Wallenstein.
“很明显，他在下来之前没有看镜子，”当他说“Goot effen”时，乔微笑着想道，然后清醒地坐下来，完全没有意识到他的拍摄对象和他的头饰之间可笑的对比。他要给她读《华伦斯坦之死》。

She said nothing at first, for she liked to hear him laugh out his big, hearty laugh when anything funny happened, so she left him to discover it for himself, and presently forgot all about it, for to hear a German read Schiller is rather an absorbing occupation. After the reading came the lesson, which was a lively one, for Jo was in a gay mood that night, and the cocked hat kept her eyes dancing with merriment. The Professor didn’t know what to make of her, and stopped at last to ask with an air of mild surprise that was irresistible ...
起初她什么也没说，因为她喜欢听他在发生任何有趣的事情时发出大而衷心的笑声，所以她让他自己去发现，很快就忘记了这一切，因为听一个德国人朗读席勒的书是相当不错的。一项引人入胜的职业读完后就开始上课了，上课很热闹，因为那天晚上乔心情愉快，三角帽让她的眼睛闪烁着欢乐的光芒。教授不知道该怎么看待她，最后停下来问道，语气中带着令人无法抗拒的轻微惊讶……

‘Mees Marsch, for what do you laugh in your master’s face? Haf you no respect for me, that you go on so bad?’
“Mees Marsch，你为什么当着你主人的面笑？如果你不尊重我，你就表现得这么糟糕吗？

‘How can I be respectful, Sir, when you forget to take your hat off?’ said Jo.
“先生，你忘了脱帽子，我怎么能尊重你呢？”乔说。

Lifting his hand to his head, the absent-minded Professor gravely felt and removed the little cocked hat, looked at it a minute, and then threw back his head and laughed like a merry bass viol.
心不在焉的教授把手举到头上，神情严肃地摸了摸，摘下那顶小三角帽，看了一会儿，然后仰起头，像一把快乐的低音提琴一样笑了起来。

‘Ah! I see him now, it is that imp Tina who makes me a fool with my cap. Well, it is nothing, but see you, if this lesson goes not well, you too shall wear him.’
'啊！我现在看到他了，就是那个用帽子让我出丑的小恶魔蒂娜。好吧，没什么，但是你看，如果这堂课学得不好，你也得穿他。

But the lesson did not go at all for a few minutes because Mr. Bhaer caught sight of a picture on the hat, and unfolding it, said with great disgust, ‘I wish these papers did not come in the house. They are not for children to see, nor young people to read. It is not well, and I haf no patience with those who make this harm.’
但是这堂课有几分钟就没有进行，因为巴尔先生看到了帽子上的一张照片，他打开它，非常厌恶地说：“我希望这些文件没有进入房子。”它们不适合儿童看，也不适合年轻人阅读。这不太好，我对那些造成这种伤害的人没有耐心。”

Jo glanced at the sheet and saw a pleasing illustration composed of a lunatic, a corpse, a villian, and a viper. She did not like it, but the impulse that made her turn it over was not one of displeasure but fear, because for a minute she fancied the paper was the Volcano. It was not, however, and her panic subsided as she remembered that even if it had been and one of her own tales in it, there would have been no name to betray her. She had betrayed herself, however, by a look and a blush, for though an absent man, the Professor saw a good deal more than people fancied. He knew that Jo wrote, and had met her down among the newspaper offices more than once, but as she never spoke of it, he asked no questions in spite of a strong desire to see her work. Now it occurred to him that she was doing what she was ashamed to own, and it troubled him. He did not say to himself, ‘It is none of my business. I’ve no right to say anything,’ as many people would have done. He only remembered that she was young and poor, a girl far away from mother’s love and father’s care, and he was moved to help her with an impulse as quick and natural as that which would prompt him to put out his hand to save a baby from a puddle. All this flashed through his mind in a minute, but not a trace of it appeared in his face, and by the time the paper was turned, and Jo’s needle threaded, he was ready to say quite naturally, but very gravely...
乔瞥了一眼那张纸，看到一幅令人赏心悦目的插图，由一个疯子、一具尸体、一个恶棍和一条毒蛇组成。她不喜欢它，但让她把它翻过来的冲动不是不悦而是恐惧，因为有一瞬间她以为这张纸是火山。然而事实并非如此，当她想起即使是这样并且其中有她自己的故事时，也不会有任何人背叛她，她的恐慌消退了。然而，她的表情和脸红却出卖了自己，因为虽然教授不在场，但他看到的东西比人们想象的要多得多。他知道乔写过文章，而且不止一次在报社见过她，但由于她从未提起过，所以尽管他很想看看她的作品，但他没有问任何问题。现在他想到她正在做她感到羞耻的事，这让他很烦恼。他没有对自己说：‘这不关我的事。我没有权利说什么，”就像很多人会做的那样。他只记得她年轻又贫穷，是​​一个远离母爱和父亲关怀的女孩，他很感动地想要帮助她，就像他伸出手去救一个婴儿一样迅速而自然的冲动。从水坑里。这一切都在一瞬间在他的脑海中闪过，但他的脸上却没有出现任何痕迹，当纸张被翻开，乔的针穿过时，他已经准备好说得很自然，但非常严肃……

‘Yes, you are right to put it from you. I do not think that good young girls should see such things. They are made pleasant to some, but I would more rather give my boys gunpowder to play with than this bad trash.’
‘是的，你把它从你身上放出来是对的。我不认为优秀的年轻女孩应该看到这样的事情。它们对某些人来说很愉快，但我宁愿给我的孩子们玩火药，也不愿给这些糟糕的垃圾。

‘All may not be bad, only silly, you know, and if there is a demand for it, I don’t see any harm in supplying it. Many very respectable people make an honest living out of what are called sensation stories,’ said Jo, scratching gathers so energetically that a row of little slits followed her pin.
“一切可能都不是坏事，只是愚蠢，你知道，如果有需求，我认为供应它没有什么坏处。许多非常受人尊敬的人靠所谓的轰动故事过着诚实的生活。”乔说，她用力地抓着褶子，以至于一排小缝顺着她的别针。

‘There is a demand for whisky, but I think you and I do not care to sell it. If the respectable people knew what harm they did, they would not feel that the living was honest. They haf no right to put poison in the sugarplum, and let the small ones eat it. No, they should think a little, and sweep mud in the street before they do this thing.’
“人们对威士忌有需求，但我想你和我都不想卖它。如果那些可敬的人知道他们做了什么伤害，他们就不会觉得生者是诚实的。他们无权在糖梅里下毒，让小孩子吃。不，他们应该想一想，在做这件事之前扫扫街上的泥土。”

Mr. Bhaer spoke warmly, and walked to the fire, crumpling the paper in his hands. Jo sat still, looking as if the fire had come to her, for her cheeks burned long after the cocked hat had turned to smoke and gone harmlessly up the chimney.
巴尔先生热情地说道，然后走到火边，手里把纸揉成一团。乔一动不动地坐着，看起来好像火已经烧到了她身上，因为在三角帽变成烟雾并无害地上升到烟囱之后很久，她的脸颊就被烧伤了。

‘I should like much to send all the rest after him,’ muttered the Professor, coming back with a relieved air.
“我真想把剩下的人都派去追他。”教授低声说道，回来时脸上露出了如释重负的神情。

Jo thought what a blaze her pile of papers upstairs would make, and her hard-earned money lay rather heavily on her conscience at that minute. Then she thought consolingly to herself, ‘Mine are not like that, they are only silly, never bad, so I won’t be worried,’ and taking up her book, she said, with a studious face, ‘Shall we go on, Sir? I’ll be very good and proper now.’
乔想，她楼上的那堆文件会引起多大的大火，而她辛苦赚来的钱在那一刻就深深地落在了她的良心上。然后她安慰自己：“我的孩子不是那样的，他们只是傻，从来不坏，所以我不会担心。”然后她拿起书，一脸好学的样子，“我们继续下去吧。” ， 先生？我现在会表现得很好。”

‘I shall hope so,’ was all he said, but he meant more than she imagined, and the grave, kind look he gave her made her feel as if the words Weekly Volcano were printed in large type on her forehead.
他只说了“希望如此”，但他的意思比她想象的要深，他给她的严肃而慈祥的眼神让她觉得《每周火山》这几个字仿佛大字印在了她的额头上。

As soon as she went to her room, she got out her papers, and carefully reread every one of her stories. Being a little shortsighted, Mr. Bhaer sometimes used eye glasses, and Jo had tried them once, smiling to see how they magnified the fine print of her book. Now she seemed to have on the Professor’s mental or moral spectacles also, for the faults of these poor stories glared at her dreadfully and filled her with dismay.
一回到自己的房间，她就拿出文件，仔细地重读了一遍自己的故事。巴尔先生有点近视，有时会戴眼镜，乔也试过一次，微笑着看它们如何放大她书上的小字。现在，她似乎也陷入了教授的精神或道德眼镜，因为这些可怜的故事的缺点可怕地瞪着她，让她充满沮丧。

‘They are trash, and will soon be worse trash if I go on, for each is more sensational than the last. I’ve gone blindly on, hurting myself and other people, for the sake of money. I know it’s so, for I can’t read this stuff in sober earnest without being horribly ashamed of it, and what should I do if they were seen at home or Mr. Bhaer got hold of them?’
“他们都是垃圾，如果我继续下去，很快就会变得更糟糕，因为每一个都比上一个更耸人听闻。”为了金钱，我盲目前行，伤害自己和他人。我知道是这样，因为我不能认真地阅读这些东西而不感到非常羞愧，如果他们在家里被看到或者巴尔先生拿到了他们，我该怎么办？

Jo turned hot at the bare idea, and stuffed the whole bundle into her stove, nearly setting the chimney afire with the blaze.
乔对这个想法很生气，把整包东西塞进了炉子里，差点把烟囱烧着了。

‘Yes, that’s the best place for such inflammable nonsense. I’d better burn the house down, I suppose, than let other people blow themselves up with my gunpowder,’ she thought as she watched the Demon of the Jura whisk away, a little black cinder with fiery eyes.
“是的，那是最适合发表这种煽动性废话的地方。我想，我最好把房子烧毁，也不要让其他人用我的火药引爆自己。”她一边想，一边看着侏罗恶魔迅速离去，那是一团黑色的小煤渣，眼睛里闪烁着火热的光芒。

But when nothing remained of all her three month’s work except a heap of ashes and the money in her lap, Jo looked sober, as she sat on the floor, wondering what she ought to do about her wages.
但是，当她三个月的工作只剩下一堆灰烬和腿上的钱时，乔看起来很清醒，她坐在地板上，想知道她应该如何处理她的工资。

‘I think I haven’t done much harm yet, and may keep this to pay for my time,’ she said, after a long meditation, adding impatiently, ‘I almost wish I hadn’t any conscience, it’s so inconvenient. If I didn’t care about doing right, and didn’t feel uncomfortable when doing wrong, I should get on capitally. I can’t help wishing sometimes, that Mother and Father hadn’t been so particular about such things.’
“我想我还没有造成太大的伤害，也许可以保留这个来支付我的时间，”她沉思了很长时间后说道，不耐烦地补充道，“我几乎希望我没有良心，这太不方便了。”如果我不关心做对了，做错了也不感到不舒服，我就应该过得很好。有时我情不自禁地希望，母亲和父亲对这些事情没有那么挑剔。

Ah, Jo, instead of wishing that, thank God that ‘Father and Mother were particular’. and pity from your heart those who have no such guardians to hedge them round with principles which may seem like prison walls to impatient youth, but which will prove sure foundations to build character upon in womanhood.
啊，乔，与其希望如此，不如感谢上帝“父亲和母亲很特别”。发自内心地怜悯那些没有这样的监护人的人，用原则来围堵他们，这些原则对于不耐烦的年轻人来说似乎是监狱的围墙，但事实证明，这些原则将成为女性塑造品格的坚实基础。

Jo wrote no more sensational stories, deciding that the money did not pay for her share of the sensation, but going to the other extreme, as is the way with people of her stamp, she took a course of Mrs. Sherwood, Miss Edgeworth, and Hannah More, and then produced a tale which might have been more properly called an essay or a sermon, so intensely moral was it. She had her doubts about it from the beginning, for her lively fancy and girlish romance felt as ill at ease in the new style as she would have done masquerading in the stiff and cumbrous costume of the last century. She sent this didactic gem to several markets, but it found no purchaser, and she was inclined to agree with Mr. Dashwood that morals didn’t sell.
乔不再写耸人听闻的故事，她认为这笔钱不足以支付她那份轰动的费用，但她走向了另一个极端，就像她这种人的做法一样，她学习了舍伍德夫人、埃奇沃斯小姐、和汉娜·莫尔，然后创作了一个故事，这个故事可能更适合称为散文或布道，因为它具有如此强烈的道德意义。她从一开始就对此心存疑虑，因为她活泼的幻想和少女般的浪漫在新风格中感到不自在，就像她在上个世纪僵硬笨重的服装中伪装一样。她把这颗具有教育意义的宝石送到了几个市场，但没有找到买家，她倾向于同意达什伍德先生的观点，即道德是卖不出去的。

Then she tried a child’s story, which she could easily have disposed of if she had not been mercenary enough to demand filthy lucre for it. The only person who offered enough to make it worth her while to try juvenile literature was a worthy gentleman who felt it his mission to convert all the world to his particular belief. But much as she liked to write for children, Jo could not consent to depict all her naughty boys as being eaten by bears or tossed by mad bulls because they did not go to a particular Sabbath school, nor all the good infants who did go as rewarded by every kind of bliss, from gilded gingerbread to escorts of angels when they departed this life with psalms or sermons on their lisping tongues. So nothing came of these trials, land Jo corked up her inkstand, and said in a fit of very wholesome humility...
然后她又尝试了一个孩子的故事，如果她不是唯利是图，索取不义之财的话，她很容易就把这个故事处理掉。唯一一个愿意让她值得尝试青少年文学的人是一位值得尊敬的绅士，他认为自己的使命是让全世界都皈依他的特殊信仰。尽管乔很喜欢为孩子们写作，但她无法同意将她所有顽皮的男孩描绘成被熊吃掉或被疯牛扔掉的样子，因为他们没有去特定的安息日学校，也不同意把所有去安息日学校的好孩子描绘成他们会得到各种幸福的奖励，从镀金的姜饼到天使在离开此生时用他们口齿不清的舌头唱着诗篇或布道时的护送。所以这些试验没有任何结果，兰德·乔用软木塞塞住了她的墨水瓶，并以一种非常健康的谦逊态度说道……

‘I don’t know anything. I’ll wait until I do before I try again, and meantime, ‘sweep mud in the street’ if I can’t do better, that’s honest, at least.’ Which decision proved that her second tumble down the beanstalk had done her some good.
‘我什么都不知道。我会等到我再次尝试之前，同时，如果我不能做得更好，“扫街上的泥巴”，至少这是诚实的。”这个决定证明了她第二次从豆茎上摔下来已经完成了她的任务一些好的。

While these internal revolutions were going on, her external life had been as busy and uneventful as usual, and if she sometimes looked serious or a little sad no one observed it but Professor Bhaer. He did it so quietly that Jo never knew he was watching to see if she would accept and profit by his reproof, but she stood the test, and he was satisfied, for though no words passed between them, he knew that she had given up writing. Not only did he guess it by the fact that the second finger of her right hand was no longer inky, but she spent her evenings downstairs now, was met no more among newspaper offices, and studied with a dogged patience, which assured him that she was bent on occupying her mind with something useful, if not pleasant.
当这些内在的革命正在进行时，她的外在生活却像平常一样忙碌而平静，如果她有时看起来很严肃或有点悲伤，除了巴尔教授之外，没有人注意到。他做得如此安静，乔从来不知道他在观察她是否会接受并从他的责备中受益，但她经受住了考验，他很满意，因为虽然他们之间没有说话，但他知道她已经放弃了写作。他不仅从她右手的第二根手指不再是墨色的事实中猜到了这一点，而且现在她在楼下度过了夜晚，不再在报社里遇见她，而是以顽强的耐心学习，这让他确信她她一心想用一些有用的事情来占据她的注意力，即使这不是令人愉快的事情。

He helped her in many ways, proving himself a true friend, and Jo was happy, for while her pen lay idle, she was learning other lessons besides German, and laying a foundation for the sensation story of her own life.
他在很多方面帮助了她，证明自己是一个真正的朋友，乔很高兴，因为当她的笔闲置时，她正在学习除了德语之外的其他课程，并为她自己的人生轰动故事奠定基础。

It was a pleasant winter and a long one, for she did not leave Mrs. Kirke till June. Everyone seemed sorry when the time came. The children were inconsolable, and Mr. Bhaer’s hair stuck straight up all over his head, for he always rumpled it wildly when disturbed in mind.
这是一个愉快的冬天，也是一个漫长的冬天，因为她直到六月才离开柯克太太。当时间到来时，每个人都显得很遗憾。孩子们伤心欲绝，巴尔先生的头发全都竖起来了，因为他一心烦意乱，总是把头发乱糟糟地弄乱。

‘Going home? Ah, you are happy that you haf a home to go in,’ he said, when she told him, and sat silently pulling his beard in the corner, while she held a little levee on that last evening.
'回家？啊，你很高兴有一个家可以住，”当她告诉他时，他说，然后默默地坐在角落里拉着胡须，而她在最后一个晚上守着一个小堤坝。

She was going early, so she bade them all goodbye overnight, and when his turn came, she said warmly, ‘Now, Sir, you won’t forget to come and see us, if you ever travel our way, will you? I’ll never forgive you if you do, for I want them all to know my friend.’
她要走得早，所以她连夜跟他们告别，轮到他时，她热情地说：“现在，先生，如果您来我们这里的话，您不会忘记来看我们的，对吗？”如果你这样做，我永远不会原谅你，因为我希望他们都认识我的朋友。

‘Do you? Shall I come?’ he asked, looking down at her with an eager expression which she did not see.
'你？我可以去吗？”他问道，低头看着她，脸上带着一种她没有看到的急切表情。

‘Yes, come next month. Laurie graduates then, and you’d enjoy commencement as something new.’
‘是的，下个月来。劳里那时就毕业了，你会喜欢毕业典礼作为一个新的东西。

‘That is your best friend, of whom you speak?’ he said in an altered tone.
“你说的那个人就是你最好的朋友？”他语气变了。

‘Yes, my boy Teddy. I’m very proud of him and should like you to see him.’
“是的，我的孩子泰迪。我为他感到非常自豪，希望你能看到他。”

Jo looked up then, quite unconscious of anything but her own pleasure in the prospect of showing them to one another. Something in Mr. Bhaer’s face suddenly recalled the fact that she might find Laurie more than a ‘best friend’, and simply because she particularly wished not to look as if anything was the matter, she involuntarily began to blush, and the more she tried not to, the redder she grew. If it had not been for Tina on her knee. She didn’t know what would have become of her. Fortunately the child was moved to hug her, so she managed to hide her face an instant, hoping the Professor did not see it. But he did, and his own changed again from that momentary anxiety to its usual expression, as he said cordially...
乔抬起头来，完全没有意识到任何事情，除了她自己对将它们互相展示的前景感到高兴之外。巴尔先生脸上的表情突然想起了这样一个事实，即她可能认为劳里不仅仅是一个“最好的朋友”，而且仅仅因为她特别不想看起来好像有什么问题，她不由自主地开始脸红，而且她越努力越好。不，她越红。如果蒂娜没有跪在她的膝盖上。她不知道自己会变成什么样子。幸好孩子被感动了，抱住了她，她赶紧把脸藏起来，希望教授没有看到。但他做到了，他的表情又从那一时的焦虑变成了平常的表情，正如他亲切地说的那样……

‘I fear I shall not make the time for that, but I wish the friend much success, and you all happiness. Gott bless you!’ And with that, he shook hands warmly, shouldered Tina, and went away.
“我担心我抽不出时间来做这件事，但我祝愿这位朋友取得成功，祝你们幸福。”祝福你！”说完，他热情地握了握手，搂住蒂娜，然后走开了。

But after the boys were abed, he sat long before his fire with the tired look on his face and the ‘heimweh’, or homesickness, lying heavy at his heart. Once, when he remembered Jo as she sat with the little child in her lap and that new softness in her face, he leaned his head on his hands a minute, and then roamed about the room, as if in search of something that he could not find.
但孩子们上床睡觉后，他在火堆前坐了很长时间，脸上带着疲惫的表情，“heimweh”（思乡之情）沉重地压在他的心头。有一次，当他想起乔坐在她腿上的小孩以及她脸上那股新的温柔时，他把头靠在双手上一会儿，然后在房间里走来走去，仿佛在寻找他能找到的东西。找不到。

‘It is not for me, I must not hope it now,’ he said to himself, with a sigh that was almost a groan. Then, as if reproaching himself for the longing that he could not repress, he went and kissed the two tousled heads upon the pillow, took down his seldom-used meerschaum, and opened his Plato.
“这不适合我，我现在不能希望它，”他自言自语地说，叹了口气，几乎是呻吟。然后，仿佛在责备自己无法抑制的渴望，他走过去亲吻了枕头上两个凌乱的头，取下了他很少使用的海泡石，打开了他的柏拉图。

He did his best and did it manfully, but I don’t think he found that a pair of rampant boys, a pipe, or even the divine Plato, were very satisfactory substitutes for wife and child at home.
他尽力了，做得很有男子气概，但我不认为他发现一对猖狂的男孩、一根烟斗，甚至神圣的柏拉图，都是家里妻子和孩子非常令人满意的替代品。

Early as it was, he was at the station next morning to see Jo off, and thanks to him, she began her solitary journey with the pleasant memory of a familiar face smiling its farewell, a bunch of violets to keep her company, and best of all, the happy thought, ‘Well, the winter’s gone, and I’ve written no books, earned no fortune, but I’ve made a friend worth having and I’ll try to keep him all my life.’
第二天一早，他就到车站为乔送行，多亏了他，她开始了她的孤独旅程，带着一张熟悉的面孔微笑着告别的美好记忆，一束紫罗兰陪伴着她，最好的最重要的是，幸福的想法是：“好吧，冬天已经过去了，我没有写过任何书，没有赚到任何财富，但我交了一个值得拥有的朋友，我会努力一生留住他。”

CHAPTER THIRTY-FIVE
第三十五章

Whatever his motive might have been, Laurie studied to some purpose that year, for he graduated with honor, and gave the Latin oration with the grace of a Phillips and the eloquence of a Demosthenes, so his friends said. They were all there, his grandfather—oh, so proud—Mr. and Mrs. March, John and Meg, Jo and Beth, and all exulted over him with the sincere admiration which boys make light of at the time, but fail to win from the world by any after-triumphs.
无论他的动机是什么，劳里那一年的学习都有了某种目的，因为他以优异的成绩毕业，并以菲利普斯的优雅和德摩斯梯尼的雄辩进行了拉丁语演讲，他的朋友们说。他们都在那里，他的祖父——哦，太自豪了——先生。马奇太太、约翰和梅格、乔和贝丝，所有人都对他欣喜若狂，怀着真诚的钦佩之情，而当时的男孩们却对此嗤之以鼻，但后来却未能以任何胜利赢得世人的青睐。

‘I’ve got to stay for this confounded supper, but I shall be home early tomorrow. You’ll come and meet me as usual, girls?’ Laurie said, as he put the sisters into the carriage after the joys of the day were over. He said ‘girls’, but he meant Jo, for she was the only one who kept up the old custom. She had not the heart to refuse her splendid, successful boy anything, and answered warmly...
“我必须留下来吃这顿令人困惑的晚餐，但明天我会早点回家。孩子们，你们会像往常一样来见我吗？”一天的欢乐结束后，劳里一边把姐妹们送上马车，一边说道。他说的是“女孩”，但他指的是乔，因为她是唯一保持旧习俗的人。她不忍心拒绝自己优秀、成功的男孩任何事，热情地回答……

‘I’ll come, Teddy, rain or shine, and march before you, playing ‘Hail the conquering hero comes’ on a jew’s-harp.’
“泰迪，无论风雨无阻，我都会来，走在你前面，用犹太竖琴演奏‘万岁，征服英雄来了’。”

Laurie thanked her with a look that made her think in a sudden panic, ‘Oh, deary me! I know he’ll say something, and then what shall I do?’
劳里感谢她的眼神让她突然惊慌失措地想：‘哦，天哪！我知道他会说什么，那我该怎么办呢？

Evening meditation and morning work somewhat allayed her fears, and having decided that she wouldn’t be vain enough to think people were going to propose when she had given them every reason to know what her answer would be, she set forth at the appointed time, hoping Teddy wouldn’t do anything to make her hurt his poor feelings. A call at Meg’s, and a refreshing sniff and sip at the Daisy and Demijohn, still further fortified her for the tete-a-tete, but when she saw a stalwart figure looming in the distance, she had a strong desire to turn about and run away.
晚上的冥想和早上的工作在一定程度上减轻了她的恐惧，她决定，当她给人们充分的理由知道她的答案时，她不会虚荣地认为人们会求婚，于是她在约定的时间出发了。 ，希望泰迪不会做任何让她伤害他可怜的感情的事情。梅格家的一声呼唤，以及黛西和黛米约翰的清爽嗅嗅和啜饮，进一步增强了她与会面的信心，但当她看到远处若隐若现的魁梧身影时，她强烈地想要转身，逃跑。

‘Where’s the jew’s-harp, Jo?’ cried Laurie, as soon as he was within speaking distance.
“乔，犹太竖琴在哪儿？”劳里一到说话的距离内就喊道。

‘I forgot it.’ And Jo took heart again, for that salutation could not be called loverlike.
“我忘了。”乔又振作起来，因为这种问候称不上是爱情。

She always used to take his arm on these occasions, now she did not, and he made no complaint, which was a bad sign, but talked on rapidly about all sorts of faraway subjects, till they turned from the road into the little path that led homeward through the grove. Then he walked more slowly, suddenly lost his fine flow of language, and now and then a dreadful pause occurred. To rescue the conversation from one of the wells of silence into which it kept falling, Jo said hastily, ‘Now you must have a good long holiday!’
这些时候她总是挽着他的手臂，现在她没有了，他也没有抱怨，这是一个坏兆头，而是快速地谈论着各种遥远的话题，直到他们从大路转向那条小路。穿过树林回家。然后他走得更慢了，突然失去了流畅的语言，时不时出现可怕的停顿。为了把谈话从不断陷入的沉默中拯救出来，乔急忙说道：“现在你必须度过一个愉快的长假了！”

‘I intend to.’
'我打算。'

Something in his resolute tone made Jo look up quickly to find him looking down at her with an expression that assured her the dreaded moment had come, and made her put out her hand with an imploring, ‘No, Teddy. Please don’t!’
他坚定的语气让乔迅速抬起头，发现他低头看着她，脸上的表情让她确信可怕的时刻已经到来，并让她伸出手恳求道：“不，泰迪。”请不要！’

‘I will, and you must hear me. It’s no use, Jo, we’ve got to have it out, and the sooner the better for both of us,’ he answered, getting flushed and excited all at once.
“我会的，你必须听我说。这是没有用的，乔，我们必须把它解决掉，越早对我们俩越好。”他回答道，脸色一下子涨红了，又兴奋起来。

‘Say what you like then. I’ll listen,’ said Jo, with a desperate sort of patience.
‘那就说你喜欢什么吧。我会听的。”乔带着绝望的耐心说道。

Laurie was a young lover, but he was in earnest, and meant to ‘have it out’, if he died in the attempt, so he plunged into the subject with characteristic impetuousity, saying in a voice that would get choky now and then, in spite of manful efforts to keep it steady . .. ‘I’ve loved you ever since I’ve known you, Jo, couldn’t help it, you’ve been so good to me. I’ve tried to show it, but you wouldn’t let me. Now I’m going to make you hear, and give me an answer, for I can’t go on so any longer.’
劳里是个年轻的情人，但他是认真的，并且打算“把它说出来”，如果他在尝试中死去的话，所以他以特有的急躁方式进入了这个话题，用一种时不时变得哽咽的声音说：尽管付出了巨大的努力来保持稳定。 .. ‘自从我认识你以来，我就爱你，乔，情不自禁，你对我太好了。我试图展示它，但你不让我。现在我要让你听到，并给我一个答案，因为我不能再这样下去了。”

‘I wanted to save you this. I thought you’d understand... began Jo, finding it a great deal harder than she expected.
‘我想救你这个。我以为你会理解的……乔开始说道，她发现这比她预想的要困难得多。

‘I know you did, but the girls are so queer you never know what they mean. They say no when they mean yes, and drive a man out of his wits just for the fun of it,’ returned Laurie, entrenching himself behind an undeniable fact.
“我知道你这么做了，但这些女孩太奇怪了，你永远不知道她们的意思。他们说“是”的时候却说“不”，并且只是为了好玩而把一个人逼疯。”劳里回答说，他用一个不可否认的事实来巩固自己。

‘I don’t. I never wanted to make you care for me so, and I went away to keep you from it if I could.’
'我不。我从来不想让你如此关心我，如果可以的话，我离开是为了让你远离它。

‘I thought so. It was like you, but it was no use. I only loved you all the more, and I worked hard to please you, and I gave up billiards and everything you didn’t like, and waited and never complained, for I hoped you’d love me, though I’m not half good enough...’ Here there was a choke that couldn’t be controlled, so he decapitated buttercups while he cleared his ‘confounded throat’.
'我是这么想的。跟你一样，不过没啥用。我只是更加爱你，我努力工作来取悦你，我放弃了台球和一切你不喜欢的东西，等待着，从不抱怨，因为我希望你会爱我，尽管我不是一半够好了……”这里有一种无法控制的窒息，所以他在清清“混乱的喉咙”的同时斩下了毛茛的头。

‘You, you are, you’re a great deal too good for me, and I’m so grateful to you, and so proud and fond of you, I don’t know why I can’t love you as you want me to. I’ve tried, but I can’t change the feeling, and it would be a lie to say I do when I don’t.’
“你，你，你对我来说太好了，我非常感激你，为你感到骄傲和喜爱，我不知道为什么我不能像你想要的那样爱你到。我试过了，但我无法改变这种感觉，如果我不这样做，就说我愿意，那就是谎言。”

‘Really, truly, Jo?’
“真的，真的吗，乔？”

He stopped short, and caught both her hands as he put his question with a look that she did not soon forget.
他突然停了下来，握住她的双手，提出问题，眼神让她久久难以忘怀。

‘Really, truly, dear.’
“真的，真的，亲爱的。”

They were in the grove now, close by the stile, and when the last words fell reluctantly from Jo’s lips, Laurie dropped her hands and turned as if to go on, but for once in his life the fence was too much for him. So he just laid his head down on the mossy post, and stood so still that Jo was frightened.
他们现在已经在小树林里了，靠近栅栏，当乔不情愿地说出最后一句话时，劳里放下手，转身好像要继续走下去，但他一生中第一次，栅栏对他来说太难了。所以他只是把头靠在长满青苔的柱子上，一动不动地站着，乔吓坏了。

‘Oh, Teddy, I’m sorry, so desperately sorry, I could kill myself if it would do any good! I wish you wouldn’t take it so hard, I can’t help it. You know it’s impossible for people to make themselves love other people if they don’t,’ cried Jo inelegantly but remorsefully, as she softly patted his shoulder, remembering the time when he had comforted her so long ago.
“哦，泰迪，我很抱歉，非常抱歉，如果有什么好处的话，我可以自杀！”我希望你不要这么难受，我无能为力。你知道，如果一个人不爱别人，就不可能让自己去爱别人。”乔轻轻拍着他的肩膀，想起很久以前他安慰她的时候，不优雅但又悔恨地喊道。

‘They do sometimes,’ said a muffled voice from the post. ‘I don’t believe it’s the right sort of love, and I’d rather not try it,’ was the decided answer.
“他们有时会这样做，”帖子里传来一个低沉的声音。 “我不认为这是正确的爱，我宁愿不尝试，”这是坚定的答案。

There was a long pause, while a blackbird sung blithely on the willow by the river, and the tall grass rustled in the wind. Presently Jo said very soberly, as she sat down on the step of the stile, ‘Laurie, I want to tell you something.’
一阵长长的停顿，一只黑鸟在河边的柳树上欢快地歌唱，高高的草丛在风中沙沙作响。不久，乔在栅栏的台阶上坐下，非常严肃地说：“劳里，我想告诉你一件事。”

He started as if he had been shot, threw up his head, and cried out in a fierce tone, ‘Don’t tell me that, Jo, I can’t bear it now!’
他像中了枪一样，猛地抬起头，用凶狠的语气喊道：“乔，别告诉我这些，我现在无法忍受！”

‘Tell what?’ she asked, wondering at his violence.
“告诉什么？”她问道，对他的暴力行为感到好奇。

‘That you love that old man.’
“你爱那个老人。”

‘What old man?’ demanded Jo, thinking he must mean his grandfather.
“什么老人？”乔问道，认为他指的是他的祖父。

‘That devilish Professor you were always writing about. If you say you love him, I know I shall do something desperate.’ And he looked as if he would keep his word, as he clenched his hands with a wrathful spark in his eyes.
“你总是写到那个邪恶的教授。如果你说你爱他，我知道我会做出不顾一切的事情。”他看上去似乎会遵守诺言，他紧握双手，眼中闪烁着愤怒的火花。

Jo wanted to laugh, but restrained herself and said warmly, for she too, was getting excited with all this, ‘Don’t swear, Teddy! He isn’t old, nor anything bad, but good and kind, and the best friend I’ve got, next to you. Pray, don’t fly into a passion. I want to be kind, but I know I shall get angry if you abuse my Professor. I haven’t the least idea of loving him or anybody else.’
乔想笑，但克制住自己，热情地说，因为她也对这一切感到兴奋，“别发誓，泰迪！”他并不老，也没有什么坏处，而是善良、善良，是我最好的朋友，就在你身边。祈祷，不要陷入激情。我想表现得友善，但我知道如果你辱骂我的教授我会生气。我根本不知道要爱他或其他人。”

‘But you will after a while, and then what will become of me?’
“但是过一段时间你就会了，那么我会变成什么样子呢？”

‘You’ll love someone else too, like a sensible boy, and forget all this trouble.’
“你也会像一个懂事的男孩一样爱别人，忘记所有这些烦恼。”

‘I can’t love anyone else, and I’ll never forget you, Jo, Never! Never!’ with a stamp to emphasize his passionate words.
“我不能爱任何人，我永远不会忘记你，乔，永远！”决不！”并贴上邮票以强调他充满激情的话语。

‘What shall I do with him?’ sighed Jo, finding that emotions were more unmanagable than she expected. ‘You haven’t heard what I wanted to tell you. Sit down and listen, for indeed I want to do right and make you happy,’ she said, hoping to soothe him with a little reason, which proved that she knew nothing about love.
“我该拿他怎么办？”乔叹了口气，发现自己的情绪比她预想的更难以控制。 ‘你还没听到我想告诉你的话。坐下来听听，因为我确实想做正确的事，让你幸福。”她说，希望用一点理由来安抚他，这证明她对爱一无所知。

Seeing a ray of hope in that last speech, Laurie threw himself down on the grass at her feet, leaned his arm on the lower step of the stile, and looked up at her with an expectant face. Now that arrangement was not conducive to calm speech or clear thought on Jo’s part, for how could she say hard things to her boy while he watched her with eyes full of love and longing, and lashes still wet with the bitter drop or two her hardness of heart had wrung from him? She gently turned his head away, saying, as she stroked the wavy hair which had been allowed to grow for her sake—how touching that was, to be sure! ‘I agree with Mother that you and I are not suited to each other, because our quick tempers and strong wills would probably make us very miserable, if we were so foolish as to...’ Jo paused a little over the last word, but Laurie uttered it with a rapturous expression.
劳里在最后一次演讲中看到了一线希望，他倒在她脚边的草地上，手臂靠在台阶的下一级台阶上，抬起头满脸期待地看着她。现在这种安排不利于乔平静的言语或清晰的思维，因为她怎么能对她的儿子说难听的话，而他的眼睛里充满了爱和渴望，睫毛还因她坚硬的一两滴苦涩而湿润。他的心已经被榨干了吗？她轻轻地转开他的头，一边抚摸着为了她而留出的卷发，一边说道——这真是令人感动啊！ “我同意妈妈的看法，你和我并不合适，因为我们的脾气暴躁，意志坚强，如果我们愚蠢到……”乔在最后一个词停顿了一下，但劳里说这句话时，脸上带着欣喜若狂的表情。

‘Marry—no we shouldn’t! If you loved me, Jo, I should be a perfect saint, for you could make me anything you like.’
‘结婚——不，我们不应该结婚！如果你爱我，乔，我应该是一个完美的圣人，因为你可以为我做任何你喜欢的事情。

‘No, I can’t. I’ve tried and failed, and I won’t risk our happiness by such a serious experiment. We don’t agree and we never shall, so we’ll be good friends all our lives, but we won’t go and do anything rash.’
不，我不能。我尝试过，但失败了，我不会拿我们的幸福去冒险进行如此严肃的实验。我们不同意，也永远不会同意，所以我们会是一辈子的好朋友，但我们不会鲁莽行事。

‘Yes, we will if we get the chance,’ muttered Laurie rebelliously.
“是的，如果有机会的话，我们会的。”劳里叛逆地嘀咕道。

‘Now do be reasonable, and take a sensible view of the case,’ implored Jo, almost at her wit’s end.
“现在一定要理智一点，理智地看待这个案子。”乔几乎无计可施地恳求道。

‘I won’t be reasonable. I don’t want to take what you call ‘a sensible view’. It won’t help me, and it only makes it harder. I don’t believe you’ve got any heart.’
‘我不会讲道理的。我不想接受你所谓的“明智的观点”。这对我没有帮助，只会让事情变得更加困难。我不相信你有良心。

‘I wish I hadn’t.’
“我希望我没有。”

There was a little quiver in Jo’s voice, and thinking it a good omen, Laurie turned round, bringing all his persuasive powers to bear as he said, in the wheedlesome tone that had never been so dangerously wheedlesome before, ‘Don’t disappoint us, dear! Everyone expects it. Grandpa has set his heart upon it, your people like it, and I can’t get on without you. Say you will, and let’s be happy. Do, do!’
乔的声音里有一点颤抖，劳里认为这是一个好兆头，于是转过身来，用他所有的说服力说道，用以前从未如此危险的俏皮语气说道：“别让我们失望。” ， 亲爱的！每个人都期待它。爷爷一心一意，你们的人喜欢它，没有你们我就活不下去。说你会的，让我们快乐吧。渡渡鸟！'

Not until months afterward did Jo understand how she had the strength of mind to hold fast to the resolution she had made when she decided that she did not love her boy, and never could. It was very hard to do, but she did it, knowing that delay was both useless and cruel.
直到几个月后，乔才明白，当她决定不爱她的儿子时，她是如何有勇气坚持自己所下的决心的，而且永远也做不到。这很难做到，但她还是这么做了，因为她知道拖延既无用又残忍。

‘I can’t say ‘yes’ truly, so I won’t say it at all. You’ll see that I’m right, by-and-by, and thank me for it...’ she began solemnly.
“我无法真正说‘是’，所以我根本不会说。”不久你就会发现我是对的，并为此感谢我……”她庄严地开始说道。

‘I’ll be hanged if I do!’ And Laurie bounced up off the grass, burning with indignation at the very idea.
“如果我这样做的话，我会被绞死的！”劳里从草地上跳了起来，一想到这个想法就义愤填膺。

‘Yes, you will!’ persisted Jo. ‘You’ll get over this after a while, and find some lovely accomplished girl, who will adore you, and make a fine mistress for your fine house. I shouldn’t. I’m homely and awkward and odd and old, and you’d be ashamed of me, and we should quarrel—we can’t help it even now, you see-and I shouldn’t like elegant society and you would, and you’d hate my scribbling, and I couldn’t get on without it, and we should be unhappy, and wish we hadn’t done it, and everything would be horrid!’
“是的，你会的！”乔坚持道。 “过一段时间你就会克服这个问题，并找到一个可爱的多才多艺的女孩，她会崇拜你，并成为你漂亮房子的漂亮女主人。我不应该。我相貌平庸、笨拙、古怪、老旧，你会为我感到羞耻，我们应该吵架——即使现在我们也无能为力，你看——我不应该喜欢优雅的社会，而你会的，而且你会讨厌我的涂鸦，没有它我就活不下去，我们应该不高兴，希望我们没有这样做，一切都会很可怕！

‘Anything more?’ asked asked Laurie, finding it hard to listen patiently to this prophetic burst.
“还有什么吗？”劳里问道，她发现自己很难耐心倾听这突然爆发的预言。

‘Nothing more, except that I don’t believe I shall ever marry. I’m happy as I am, and love my liberty too well to be in a hurry to give it up for any mortal man.’
‘仅此而已，只是我不相信我会结婚。我很幸福，我也很热爱我的自由，不会急于为了任何凡人而放弃它。

‘I know better!’ broke in Laurie. ‘You think so now, but there’ll come a time when you will care for somebody, and you’ll love him tremendously, and live and die for him. I know you will, it’s your way, and I shall have to stand by and see it.’ And the despairing lover cast his hat upon the ground with a gesture that would have seemed comical, if his face had not been so tragic.
“我更清楚！”劳里插话道。 “你现在是这么想的，但总有一天你会关心某人，你会非常爱他，为他生、为他死。我知道你会的，这是你的方式，而我必须站在一旁看着它。”绝望的情人把帽子扔在地上，如果他的脸不是那么悲惨的话，他的动作似乎很滑稽。

‘Yes, I will live and die for him, if her ever comes and makes me love him in spite of myself, and you must do the best you can!’ cried Jo, losing patience with poor Teddy. ‘I’ve done my best, but you won’t be reasonable, and it’s selfish of you to keep teasing for what I can’t give. I shall always be fond of you, very fond indeed, as a friend, but I’ll never marry you, and the sooner you believe it the better for both of us—so now!’
“是的，如果她来了，让我不由自主地爱他，我会为他而生，为他而死，你必须尽力而为！”乔喊道，对可怜的泰迪失去了耐心。 ‘我已经尽力了，但你不会讲道理，你还继续取笑我无法给予的东西，这太自私了。作为朋友，我将永远喜欢你，确实非常喜欢，但我永远不会嫁给你，你越早相信这一点对我们双方都越好——所以现在！

That speech was like gunpowder. Laurie looked at her a minute as if he did not quite know what to do with himself, then turned sharply away, saying in a desperate sort of tone, ‘You’ll be sorry some day, Jo.’
那句话就像火药一样。劳里看了她一会儿，好像不太知道自己该怎么办，然后猛地转过身去，用一种绝望的语气说：“有一天你会后悔的，乔。”

‘Oh, where are you going?’ she cried, for his face frightened her.
“哦，你要去哪里？”她喊道，因为他的脸让她害怕。

‘To the devil!’ was the consoling answer.
“见鬼去吧！”这是令人安慰的答案。

For a minute Jo’s heart stood still, as he swung himself down the bank toward the river, but it takes much folly, sin or misery to send a young man to a violent death, and Laurie was not one of the weak sort who are conquered by a single failure. He had no thought of a melodramatic plunge, but some blind instinct led him to fling hat and coat into his boat, and row away with all his might, making better time up the river than he had done in any race. Jo drew a long breath and unclasped her hands as she watched the poor fellow trying to outstrip the trouble which he carried in his heart.
有那么一分钟，当乔沿着河岸向河边荡去时，他的心静止了，但是要让一个年轻人惨死，需要很多愚蠢、罪恶或痛苦，而劳里并不是那种被征服的弱者。通过一次失败。他并没有想过要戏剧性地跳水，但某种盲目的本能促使他把帽子和外套扔进船上，然后用尽全力划船，在河上取得了比他在任何比赛中都更好的成绩。乔长长地吸了一口气，松开紧握的双手，看着这个可怜的家伙试图摆脱心中的烦恼。

‘That will do him good, and he’ll come home in such a tender, penitent state of mind, that I shan’t dare to see him.’ she said, adding, as she went slowly home, feeling as if she had murdered some innocent thing, and buried it under the leaves. ‘Now I must go and prepare Mr. Laurence to be very kind to my poor boy. I wish he’d love Beth, perhaps he may in time, but I begin to think I was mistaken about her. Oh dear! How can girls like to have lovers and refuse them? I think it’s dreadful.’ Being sure that no one could do it so well as herself, she went straight to Mr. Laurence, told the hard story bravely through, and then broke down, crying so dismally over her own insensibility that the kind old gentleman, though sorely disappointed, did not utter a reproach. He found it difficult to understand how any girl could help loving Laurie, and hoped she would change her mind, but he knew even better than Jo that love cannot be forced, so he shook his head sadly and resolved to carry his boy out of harm’s way, for Young Impetuosity’s parting words to Jo disturbed him more than he would confess.
“这对他有好处，他会以一种温柔、悔罪的心态回家，我不敢见他。”她一边说，一边慢慢地回家，感觉好像她已经杀害了一些无辜的东西，并将其埋在树叶下。 “现在我必须去让劳伦斯先生做好准备，让他对我可怜的孩子非常友善。我希望他会爱贝丝，也许他会及时做到这一点，但我开始认为我对她的看法是错误的。哦亲爱的！女孩子怎么可能喜欢有情人又拒绝呢？我觉得这太可怕了。”她确信没有人能像她自己一样做得这么好，于是她径直走向劳伦斯先生，勇敢地讲述了这个艰难的故事，然后崩溃了，为自己的麻木不仁而伤心地哭泣，那位善良的老人先生虽然非常失望，但并没有责备他。他觉得很难理解哪个女孩能不爱劳里，并希望她能改变主意，但他比乔更清楚爱是不能强迫的，所以他悲伤地摇了摇头，决心带着他的男孩脱离伤害。是这样的，因为年轻的冲动与乔的临别赠言让他感到不安，他自己也不愿意承认。

When Laurie came home, dead tired but quite composed, his grandfather met him as if he knew nothing, and kept up the delusion very successfully for an hour or two. But when they sat together in the twilight, the time they used to enjoy so much, it was hard work for the old man to ramble on as usual, and harder still for the young one to listen to praises of the last year’s success, which to him now seemed like love’s labor lost. He bore it as long as he could, then went to his piano and began to play. The window’s were open, and Jo, walking in the garden with Beth, for once understood music better than her sister, for he played the ‘SONATA PATHETIQUE’, and played it as he never did before.
当劳里回到家时，他疲惫不堪，但很镇定，他的祖父迎接了他，好像他什么都不知道，并非常成功地维持了一两个小时的错觉。但当他们在暮色中坐在一起时，他们曾经如此享受的时光，对于老人来说，像往常一样闲聊是很困难的，对于年轻人来说，聆听对去年成功的赞扬就更困难了。现在对他来说，爱情的努力似乎白费了。他尽可能地忍受下去，然后走到钢琴前开始弹奏。窗户开着，乔和贝丝在花园里散步，这一次，他比她姐姐更了解音乐，因为他演奏了《悲哀奏鸣曲》，而且是他以前从未演奏过的。

‘That’s very fine, I dare say, but it’s sad enough to make one cry. Give us something gayer, lad,’ said Mr. Laurence, whose kind old heart was full of sympathy, which he longed to show but knew not how.
“我敢说，这很好，但这足以让人哭泣。劳伦斯先生说，他善良的老心充满了同情，他渴望表达出来，但不知道如何表达。

Laurie dashed into a livelier strain, played stormily for several minutes, and would have got through bravely, if in a momentary lull Mrs. March’s voice had not been heard calling, ‘Jo, dear, come in. I want you.’
劳里突然变得更加活跃，狂暴地演奏了几分钟，如果不是在短暂的平静中听到马奇太太的声音喊道：“乔，亲爱的，请进来。我需要你。”劳里会勇敢地完成任务。

Just what Laurie longed to say, with a different meaning! As he listened, he lost his place, the music ended with a broken chord, and the musician sat silent in the dark.
这正是劳里想要说的话，却有着不同的含义！当他听的时候，他失去了自己的位置，音乐以断弦结束，音乐家坐在黑暗中一言不发。

‘I can’t stand this,’ muttered the old gentleman. Up he got, groped his way to the piano, laid a kind hand on either of the broad shoulders, and said, as gently as a woman, ‘I know, my boy, I know.’
“我受不了了，”老先生嘀咕道。他站起来，摸索着走到钢琴前，友善地把手放在他宽阔的肩膀上，像女人一样温柔地说：“我知道，我的孩子，我知道。”

No answer for an instant, then Laurie asked sharply, ‘Who told you?’
一时没有回答，然后劳里尖锐地问道：“谁告诉你的？”

‘Jo herself.’
“乔本人。”

‘Then there’s an end of it!’ And he shook off his grandfather’s hands with an impatient motion, for though grateful for the sympathy, his man’s pride could not bear a man’s pity.
“那就结束吧！”他不耐烦地甩开了祖父的手，因为尽管他很感激祖父的同情，但他男人的自尊却无法承受男人的怜悯。

‘Not quite. I want to say one thing, and then there shall be an end of it,’ returned Mr. Laurence with unusual mildness. ‘You won’t care to stay at home now, perhaps?’
'不完全的。 “我想说一件事，然后就结束了。”劳伦斯先生异常温和地回答道。 “也许你现在不想呆在家里了？”

‘I don’t intend to run away from a girl. Jo can’t prevent my seeing her, and I shall stay and do it as long as I like,’ interrupted Laurie in a defiant tone.
“我不想逃离一个女孩。乔无法阻止我见到她，我可以留下来，想待多久就待多久。”劳里用挑衅的语气打断道。

‘Not if you are the gentleman I think you. I’m disappointed, but the girl can’t help it, and the only thing left for you to do is to go away for a time. Where will you go?’
“如果你是我认为的绅士，就不会。”我很失望，但女孩也无可奈何，你唯一能做的就是离开一段时间。你要去哪？'

‘Anywhere. I don’t care what becomes of me.’ And Laurie got up with a reckless laugh that grated on his grandfather’s ear.
‘任何地方。我不在乎我会怎样。”劳里站起身来，鲁莽地大笑起来，刺痛了祖父的耳朵。

‘Take it like a man, and don’t do anything rash, for God’s sake. Why not go abroad, as you planned, and forget it?’
‘像个男人一样对待这件事，看在上帝的份上，不要做任何鲁莽的事情。为什么不按照你的计划出国，然后忘记它呢？

‘I can’t.’
“我不能。”

‘But you’ve been wild to go, and I promised you should when you got through college.’
“但你一直很想去，我答应你大学毕业后就应该去。”

‘Ah, but I didn’t mean to go alone!’ And Laurie walked fast through the room with an expression which it was well his grandfather did not see.
“啊，但我不想一个人去！”劳里快步穿过房间，脸上的表情很庆幸他的祖父没有看到。

‘I don’t ask you to go alone. There’s someone ready and glad to go with you, anywhere in the world.’
‘我不要求你一个人去。有人准备好并很乐意与您同行，无论您去世界任何地方。

‘Who, Sir?’ stopping to listen.
“谁，先生？”停下来听。

‘Myself.’
'我。'

Laurie came back as quickly as he went, and put out his hand, saying huskily, ‘I’m a selfish brute, but—you know-Grandfather—‘
劳里来得快，也来得快，伸出手，沙哑地说：“我是个自私的畜生，但是——你知道的——祖父——”

‘Lord help me, yes, I do know, for I’ve been through it all before, once in my own young days, and then with your father. Now, my dear boy, just sit quietly down and hear my plan. It’s all settled, and can be carried out at once,’ said Mr. Laurence, keeping hold of the young man, as if fearful that he would break away as his father had done before him.
“上帝帮助我，是的，我确实知道，因为我以前经历过这一切，在我年轻的时候，一次，然后是和你父亲一起经历的。现在，我亲爱的孩子，安静地坐下来听听我的计划。一切都已经解决了，可以立即进行。”劳伦斯先生一边说，一边抓住了年轻人，仿佛生怕他会像他父亲之前那样挣脱出来。

‘Well, sir, what is it?’ And Laurie sat down, without a sign of interest in face or voice.
“好吧，先生，这是什么？”劳里坐了下来，脸上和声音都没有表现出兴趣。

‘There is business in London that needs looking after. I meant you should attend to it, but I can do it better myself, and things here will get on very well with Brooke to manage them. My partners do almost everything, I’m merely holding on until you take my place, and can be off at any time.’
“伦敦有一些生意需要照顾。我的意思是你应该注意它，但我自己可以做得更好，而且这里的事情会很顺利，有布鲁克来管理它们。我的伙伴几乎做了所有的事情，我只是坚持到你取代我的位置，并且可以随时离开。

‘But you hate traveling, Sir. I can’t ask it of you at your age,’ began Laurie, who was grateful for the sacrifice, but much preferred to go alone, if he went at all. The old gentleman knew that perfectly well, and particularly desired to prevent it, for the mood in which he found his grandson assured him that it would not be wise to leave him to his own devices. So, stifling a natural regret at the thought of the home comforts he would leave behind him, he said stoutly, Bless your soul, I’m not superannuated yet. I quite enjoy the idea. It will do me good, and my old bones won’t suffer, for traveling nowadays is almost as easy as sitting in a chair.’
“但是您讨厌旅行，先生。 “在你这个年纪，我不能要求你这么做。”劳里开始说道，他对自己的牺牲很感激，但如果他真的要去的话，他更愿意一个人去。老先生非常清楚这一点，并且特别希望阻止这种情况发生，因为他发现孙子的心情让他确信，让他自行其是是不明智的。因此，一想到他将把家庭舒适抛在身后，他就抑制住自然的遗憾，坚定地说，上帝保佑你的灵魂，我还没有过时。我很喜欢这个主意。这对我有好处，我的老骨头也不会受苦，因为现在旅行几乎就像坐在椅子上一样容易。

A restless movement from Laurie suggested that his chair was not easy, or that he did not like the plan, and made the old man add hastily, ‘I don’t mean to be a marplot or a burden. I go because I think you’d feel happier than if I was left behind. I don’t intend to gad about with you, but leave you free to go where you like, while I amuse myself in my own way. I’ve friends in London and Paris, and should like to visit them. Meantime you can go to Italy, Germany, Switzerland, where you will, and enjoy pictures, music, scenery, and adventures to your heart’s content.’
劳里不安的动作表明他的椅子并不容易，或者他不喜欢这个计划，这让老人急忙补充道：“我不想成为一个马普特或一个负担。”我去是因为我认为你会比我被抛在后面更快乐。我不想和你一起闲逛，而是让你自由地去你想去的地方，而我则以我自己的方式自娱自乐。我在伦敦和巴黎有朋友，我想拜访他们。同时你可以去意大利、德国、瑞士，随心所欲地欣赏图片、音乐、风景和冒险。

Now, Laurie felt just then that his heart was entirely broken and the world a howling wilderness, but at the sound of certain words which the old gentleman artfully introduced into his closing sentence, the broken heart gave an unexpected leap, and a green oasis or two suddenly appeared in the howling wilderness. He sighed, and then said, in a spiritless tone, ‘Just as you like, Sir. It doesn’t matter where I go or what I do.’
现在，劳里此时感觉自己的心彻底破碎了，世界变成了一片嚎叫的荒野，但听到老先生在结束语中巧妙引入的某些词的声音，破碎的心意外地跳跃起来，变成了一片绿洲或一片绿洲。两人突然出现在呼啸的荒野中。他叹了口气，然后用无精打彩的语气说道：“如您所愿，先生。”我去哪里或做什么并不重要。

‘It does to me, remember that, my lad. I give you entire liberty, but I trust you to make an honest use of it. Promise me that, Laurie.’
“这对我来说确实如此，记住这一点，我的小伙子。我给你完全的自由，但我相信你会诚实地利用它。答应我，劳里。”

‘Anything you like, Sir.’
“您喜欢什么都可以，先生。”

‘Good,’ thought the old gentleman. ‘You don’t care now, but there’ll come a time when that promise will keep you out of mischief, or I’m much mistaken.’
“很好，”老先生想。 “你现在不在乎，但总有一天，这个承诺会让你不再恶作剧，否则我就大错特错了。”

Being an energetic individual, Mr. Laurence struck while the iron was hot, and before the blighted being recovered spirit enough to rebel, they were off. During the time necessary for preparation, Laurie bore himself as young gentleman usually do in such cases. He was moody, irritable, and pensive by turns, lost his appetite, neglected his dress and devoted much time to playing tempestuously on his piano, avoided Jo, but consoled himself by staring at her from his window, with a tragic face that haunted her dreams by night and oppressed her with a heavy sense of guilt by day. Unlike some sufferers, he never spoke of his unrequited passion, and would allow no one, not even Mrs. March, to attempt consolation or offer sympathy. On some accounts, this was a relief to his friends, but the weeks before his departure were very uncomfortable, and everyone rejoiced that the ‘poor, dear fellow was going away to forget his trouble, and come home happy’. Of course, he smiled darkly at their delusion, but passed it by with the sad superiority of one who knew that his fidelity like his love was unalterable.
劳伦斯先生是一个精力充沛的人，趁热打铁，在受苦的人恢复精神反抗之前，他们出发了。在必要的准备时间里，劳里表现得像年轻绅士在这种情况下通常所做的那样。他喜怒无常，易怒，时而沉思，食欲不振，不顾衣着，花很多时间在钢琴上狂暴地弹奏，避开乔，但通过窗外凝视她来安慰自己，一张悲惨的脸困扰着她晚上她会做梦，白天她会被沉重的负罪感压得喘不过气来。与一些受害者不同，他从不谈论他单相思的激情，并且不允许任何人，甚至马奇夫人，试图安慰或表示同情。从某些角度来看，这对他的朋友们来说是一种解脱，但在他出发前的几周里，他感到非常不舒服，每个人都为“这个可怜的、亲爱的小伙子要离开，忘记他的烦恼，高高兴兴地回家”而感到高兴。当然，他对他们的妄想暗暗一笑，但带着悲伤的优越感将其忽略了，因为他知道自己的忠诚就像他的爱情一样是不可改变的。

When the parting came he affected high spirits, to conceal certain inconvenient emotions which seemed inclined to assert themselves. This gaiety did not impose upon anybody, but they tried to look as if it did for his sake, and he got on very well till Mrs. March kissed him, whit a whisper full of motherly solicitude. Then feeling that he was going very fast, he hastily embraced them all round, not forgetting the afflicted Hannah, and ran downstairs as if for his life. Jo followed a minute after to wave her hand to him if he looked round. He did look round, came back, put his arms about her as she stood on the step above him, and looked up at her with a face that made his short appeal eloquent and pathetic.
临别时，他表现得情绪高涨，以掩饰某些似乎想要表现出来的不舒服的情绪。这种欢乐并没有强加给任何人，但他们试图表现得好像是为了他而这样做，他相处得很好，直到马奇夫人吻了他，低语声中充满了母亲般的关怀。然后感觉自己走得太快了，连忙把他们抱在怀里，也没有忘记痛苦的汉娜，拼命跑下楼。一分钟后，乔也跟着他，如果他回头看的话，她就会向他挥手。当她站在他上方的台阶上时，他确实环顾四周，回来了，用双臂搂住她，抬头看着她，脸上的表情使他简短的恳求显得雄辩而可怜。

‘Oh, Jo, can’t you?’
“哦，乔，你不能吗？”

‘Teddy, dear, I wish I could!’
“泰迪，亲爱的，我希望我能！”

That was all, except a little pause. Then Laurie straightened himself up, said, ‘It’s all right, never mind,’ and went away without another word. Ah, but it wasn’t all right, and Jo did mind, for while the curly head lay on her arm a minute after her hard answer, she felt as if she had stabbed her dearest friend, and when he left her without a look behind him, she knew that the boy Laurie never would come again.
仅此而已，除了短暂的停顿。然后劳里直起身子，说：“没关系，没关系。”然后二话不说就走了。啊，但这并不好，乔确实介意，因为在她强硬回答后一分钟，卷发的头就躺在她的手臂上，她感觉好像她刺伤了她最亲爱的朋友，当他看也不看她就离开时在他身后，她知道劳里这个男孩永远不会再来了。

CHAPTER THIRTY-SIX
第三十六章

When Jo came home that spring, she had been struck with the change in Beth. No one spoke of it or seemed aware of it, for it had come too gradually to startle those who saw her daily, but to eyes sharpened by absence, it was very plain and a heavy weight fell on Jo’s heart as she saw her sister’s face. It was no paler and but littler thinner than in the autumn, yet there was a strange, transparent look about it, as if the mortal was being slowly refined away, and the immortal shining through the frail flesh with an indescribably pathetic beauty. Jo saw and felt it, but said nothing at the time, and soon the first impression lost much of its power, for Beth seemed happy, no one appeared to doubt that she was better, and presently in other cares Jo fora time forgot her fear.
那年春天，当乔回家时，贝丝的变化让她震惊。没有人提起这件事，也似乎没有人意识到这一点，因为这一切来得太缓慢，以至于那些每天见到她的人都感到惊讶，但对于因缺席而变得锐利的眼睛来说，这一切非常明显，当乔看到姐姐的脸时，她的心沉重地落在了她身上。它并不比秋天时苍白，只是瘦了一些，却有一种奇异的透明感，仿佛凡人正在慢慢炼化，而仙人则透过脆弱的肉身，闪烁着一种说不出的凄美。乔看到并感觉到了这一点，但当时什么也没说，很快第一印象就失去了大部分力量，因为贝丝看起来很高兴，似乎没有人怀疑她好多了，不久之后，乔在其他事情上忘记了她的恐惧。

But when Laurie was gone, and peace prevailed again, the vague anxiety returned and haunted her. She had confessed her sins and been forgiven, but when she showed her savings and proposed a mountain trip, Beth had thanked her heartily, but begged not to go so far away from home. Another little visit to the seashore would suit her better, and as Grandma could not be prevailed upon to leave the babies, Jo took Beth down to the quiet place, where she could live much in the open air, and let the fresh sea breezes blow a little color into her pale cheeks.
但当劳里走后，平静再次降临，隐隐约约的焦虑又回来了，并困扰着她。她承认了自己的罪孽并得到了宽恕，但当她展示自己的积蓄并提议去山里旅行时，贝丝衷心感谢她，但恳求她不要离家那么远。再一次去海边玩会更适合她，由于无法说服奶奶留下孩子们，乔带着贝丝到一个安静的地方，在那里她可以在露天生活，让新鲜的海风吹过。她苍白的脸颊上有了一点颜色。

It was not a fashionable place, but even among the pleasant people there, the girls made few friends, preferring to live for one another. Beth was too shy to enjoy society, and Jo too wrapped up in her to care for anyone else. So they were all in all to each other, and came and went, quite unconscious of the interest they exited in those about them, who watched with sympathetic eyes the strong sister and the feeble one, always together, as if they felt instinctively that a long separation was not far away.
那不是一个时尚的地方，但即使在那里和蔼可亲的人们中，女孩们也很少交朋友，她们更喜欢为彼此而活。贝丝太害羞，无法享受社交，而乔也太专注于她而无法关心其他人。就这样，她们彼此心心相印，来了又走，完全没有意识到她们对周围的人表现出的兴趣，他们用同情的目光注视着坚强的姐妹和虚弱的姐妹，总是在一起，仿佛她们本能地感觉到，漫长的分离并不遥远。

They did feel it, yet neither spoke of it, for often between ourselves and those nearest and dearest to us there exists a reserve which it is very hard to overcome. Jo felt as if a veil had fallen between her heart and Beth’s, but when she put out her hand to lift it up, there seemed something sacred in the silence, and she waited for Beth to speak. She wondered, and was thankful also, that her parents did not seem to see what she saw, and during the quiet weeks when the shadows grew so plain to her, she said nothing of it to those at home, believing that it would tell itself when Beth came back no better. She wondered still more if her sister really guessed the hard truth, and what thoughts were passing through her mind during the long hours when she lay on the warm rocks with her head in Jo’s lap, while the winds blew healthfully over her and the sea made music at her feet.
他们确实感觉到了这一点，但都没有提及，因为我们和最亲近的人之间常常存在着一种很难克服的保留。乔感觉自己的心和贝丝的心之间仿佛落下了一层纱，但当她伸出手将其举起时，沉默中似乎有某种神圣的东西，她等待着贝丝说话。她想知道，也很庆幸，她的父母似乎没有看到她所看到的一切，在安静的几周里，当阴影对她来说变得如此清晰时，她对家里的人只字不提，相信它会自己告诉她。当贝丝回来时，情况并没有好转。她更想知道她的姐姐是否真的猜到了这个残酷的事实，以及当她躺在温暖的岩石上，头靠在乔的腿上，海风健康地吹过她，大海在她的身上盘旋时，她脑子里在想什么。音乐在她脚下。

One day Beth told her. Jo thought she was asleep, she lay so still, and putting down her book, sat looking at her with wistful eyes, trying to see signs of hope in the faint color on Beth’s cheeks. But she could not find enough to satisfy her, for the cheeks were very thin, and the hands seemed too feeble to hold even the rosy little shells they had been collecting. It came to her then more bitterly than ever that Beth was slowly drifting away form her, and her arms instinctively tightened their hold upon the dearest treasure she possessed. For a minute her eyes were too dim for seeing, and when they cleared, Beth was looking up at her so tenderly that there was hardly any need for her to say, ‘Jo, dear, I’m glad you know it. I’ve tried to tell you, but I couldn’t.’
有一天贝丝告诉了她。乔以为她睡着了，她一动不动地躺着，放下书，坐着，用渴望的眼睛看着她，试图从贝丝脸颊上微弱的颜色中看到希望的迹象。但她找不到足够的东西让她满意，因为脸颊很瘦，双手似乎也无力握住他们收集的玫瑰色小贝壳。她比以往任何时候都更加痛苦地意识到贝丝正在慢慢地远离她，她的手臂本能地紧紧抓住她所拥有的最珍贵的宝藏。有一瞬间，她的眼睛变得昏暗，看不清东西，当它们恢复正常时，贝丝抬头看着她，眼神如此温柔，以至于她几乎不需要说：“乔，亲爱的，我很高兴你知道这一点。”我试图告诉你，但我不能。

There was no answer except her sister’s cheek against her own, not even tears, for when most deeply moved, Jo did not cry. She was the weaker then, land Beth tried to comfort and sustain her, with her arms about her and the soothing words she whispered in her ear.
除了她姐姐的脸颊贴着自己的脸，没有任何回应，甚至没有眼泪，因为在最感动的时候，乔没有哭。那时她比较虚弱，贝丝试图用双臂搂住她，并在她耳边低声安慰她，试图安慰和支持她。

‘I’ve known it for a good while, dear, and now I’m used to it, it isn’t hard to think of or to bear. Try to see it so and don’t be troubled about me, because it’s best, indeed it is.’
“我已经知道这一点有一段时间了，亲爱的，现在我已经习惯了，这并不难想象或难以忍受。试着这样看，不要为我担心，因为这是最好的，确实如此。

‘Is this what made you so unhappy in the autumn, Beth? You did not feel it then, land keep it to yourself so long, did you?’ asked Jo, refusing to see or say that it was best, but glad to know that Laurie had no part in Beth’s trouble.
“这就是让你在秋天如此不开心的原因吗，贝丝？那时你没有感觉到，请把它藏在心里这么久，是吗？”乔问道，拒绝看到或说这是最好的，但很高兴知道劳里没有参与贝丝的麻烦。

‘Yes, I gave up hoping then, but I didn’t like to own it. I tried to think it was a sick fancy, and would not let it trouble anyone. But when I saw you all so well and strong and full of happy plans, it was hard to feel that I could never be like you, and then I was miserable, Jo.’
“是的，我当时就放弃了希望，但我不喜欢拥有它。我试图认为这是一种病态的幻想，并且不会让它困扰任何人。但当我看到你们都那么健康、坚强、充满幸福的计划时，我很难感觉到我永远不可能像你们一样，然后我很痛苦，乔。”

‘Oh, Beth, and you didn’t tell me, didn’t let me comfort and help you? How could you shut me out, bear it all alone?’
‘哦，贝丝，你没有告诉我，没有让我安慰和帮助你吗？你怎么能把我拒之门外，独自承受这一切？

Jo’s voice was full of tender reproach, and her heart ached to think of the solitary struggle that must have gone on while Beth learned to say goodbye to health, love, and live, and take up her cross so cheerfully.
乔的声音里充满了温柔的责备，一想到贝丝学会告别健康、爱情和生活，并如此愉快地背起自己的十字架时，她一定会经历孤独的挣扎，她的心就痛了。

‘Perhaps it was wrong, but I tried to do right. I wasn’t sure, no one said anything, and I hoped I was mistaken. It would have been selfish to frighten you all when Marmee was so anxious about Meg, and Amy away, and you so happy with Laurie—at least I thought so then.’
“也许这是错的，但我试图做正确的事。我不确定，没有人说什么，我希望我是错的。当妈妈为梅格担心，艾米离开，而你们对劳里如此满意时，吓唬你们就太自私了——至少我当时是这么认为的。

‘And I thought you loved him, Beth, and I went away because I couldn’t,’ cried Jo, glad to say all the truth.
“我以为你爱他，贝丝，但我离开了，因为我做不到。”乔大声说道，很高兴说出了全部真相。

Beth looked so amazed at the idea that Jo smiled in spite of her pain, and added softly, ‘Then you didn’t, dearie? I was afraid it was so, and imagined your poor little heart full of lovelornity all that while.’
贝丝对这个想法感到非常惊讶，乔不顾痛苦地微笑着，轻声补充道：“那么你没有，亲爱的？我恐怕是这样，想象着你可怜的小心脏一直充满了失恋。

‘Why, Jo, how could I, when he was so fond of you?’ asked Beth, as innocently as a child. ‘I do love him dearly. He is so good to me, how can I help It? But he could never be anything to me but my brother. I hope he truly will be, sometime.’
“为什么，乔，他那么喜欢你，我怎么能这么做呢？”贝丝问，天真得像个孩子。 ‘我真的很爱他。他对我这么好，我该怎么办呢？但他对我来说永远只能是我的兄弟。我希望有一天他真的会成为这样的人。”

‘Not through me,’ said Jo decidedly. ‘Amy is left for him, and they would suit excellently, but I have no heart for such things, now. I don’t care what becomes of anybody but you, Beth. You must get well.’
“不是通过我，”乔坚决地说。 “艾米留给了他，他们会非常适合，但我现在不想做这样的事情。我不关心除了你以外的任何人，贝丝。你一定要康复。

‘I want to, oh, so much! I try, but every day I lose a little, and feel more sure that I shall never gain it back. It’s like the tide, Jo, when it turns, it goes slowly, but it can’t be stopped..’
‘我想要，哦，非常想要！我尝试着，但每天我都会失去一点，并且更加确信我永远无法挽回它。就像潮水一样，乔，当它转动时，它会慢慢地流走，但无法停止……”

‘It shall be stopped, your tide must not turn so soon, nineteen is too young, Beth. I can’t let you go. I’ll work and pray and fight against it. I’ll keep you in spite of everything. There must be ways, it can’t be too late. God won’t be so cruel as to take you from me,’ cried poor Jo rebelliously, for her spirit was far less piously submissive than Beth’s.
“一切都该停止了，你的潮流不能这么快转变，十九岁还太小，贝丝。我不能让你走。我会努力工作、祈祷并与之抗争。无论如何我都会留下你。一定有办法，现在还不算太晚。上帝不会那么残忍，把你从我身边夺走。”可怜的乔叛逆地喊道，因为她的精神远不如贝丝那么虔诚顺从。

Simple, sincere people seldom speak much of their piety. It shows itself in acts rather than in words, and has more influence than homilies or protestations. Beth could not reason upon or explain the faith that gave her courage and patience to give up life, and cheerfully wait for death. Like a confiding child, she asked no questions, but left everything to God and nature, Father and Mother of us all, feeling sure that they, and they only, could teach and strengthen heart and spirit for this life and the life to come. She did not rebuke Jo with saintly speeches, only loved her better for her passionate affection, and clung more closely to the dear human love, from which our Father never means us to be weaned, but through which He draws us closer to Himself. She could not say, ‘I’m glad to go,’ for life was very sweet for her. She could only sob out, ‘I try to be willing,’ while she held fast to Jo, as the first bitter wave of this great sorrow broke over them together.
单纯、真诚的人很少谈论他们的虔诚。它以行动而不是言语来体现，并且比说教或抗议具有更大的影响力。贝丝无法推理或解释给她勇气和耐心放弃生命并愉快地等待死亡的信念。就像一个倾诉的孩子一样，她没有提出任何问题，而是把一切都交给上帝和大自然，我们所有人的父亲和母亲，她确信他们，也只有他们，能够教导和加强今生和来生的心灵和精神。她没有用圣洁的言语责备乔，只是因为她的热情而更加爱她，并且更加紧紧地抓住亲爱的人类之爱，我们的天父从来没有想让我们断奶，而是通过这种爱让我们更接近他自己。她不能说“我很高兴去”，因为生活对她来说非常甜蜜。当巨大的悲伤的第一波苦涩浪潮席卷他们时，她只能抽泣着说：“我试着愿意”，同时她紧紧地抱住乔。

By and by Beth said, with recovered serenity, ‘You’ll tell them this when we go home?’
渐渐地，贝丝恢复了平静，问道：“我们回家后你会告诉他们这件事吗？”

‘I think they will see it without words,’ sighed Jo, for now it seemed to her that Beth changed every day.
“我想他们不用言语就能看到这一点，”乔叹了口气，因为现在她觉得贝丝每天都在变化。

‘Perhaps not. I’ve heard that the people who love best are often blindest to such things. If they don’t see it, you will tell them for me. I don’t want any secrets, and it’s kinder to prepare them. Meg has John and the babies to comfort her, but you must stand by Father and Mother, won’t you Jo?’
'也许不是。我听说，最爱的人往往对这些事情最盲目。如果他们没有看到，你会帮我告诉他们。我不需要任何秘密，最好提前准备好。梅格有约翰和孩子们来安慰她，但你必须站在父亲和母亲一边，不是吗，乔？

‘If I can. But, Beth, I don’t give up yet. I’m going to believe that it is a sick fancy, and not let you think it’s true.’ said Jo, trying to speak cheerfully.
'如果我能。但是，贝丝，我还没有放弃。我会相信这是一种病态的幻想，而不是让你认为这是真的。”乔试图用愉快的语气说道。

Beth lay a minute thinking, and then said in her quiet way, ‘I don’t know how to express myself, and shouldn’t try to anyone but you, because I can’t speak out except to my Jo. I only mean to say that I have a feeling that it never was intended I should live long. I’m not like the rest of you. I never made any plans about what I’d do when I grew up. I never thought of being married, as you all did. I couldn’t seem to imagine myself anything but stupid little Beth, trotting about at home, of no use anywhere but there. I never wanted to go away, and the hard part now is the leaving you all. I’m not afraid, but it seems as if I should be homesick for you even in heaven.’
贝丝躺了想了一会儿，然后平静地说：“我不知道如何表达自己，除了你之外，我不应该向任何人表达自己，因为除了对我的乔，我不能说话。”我只是想说，我有一种感觉，我从来没有想过要活得长久。我和你们其他人不一样。我从来没有计划过长大后要做什么。我从来没有像你们一样想过结婚。我似乎无法想象自己除了愚蠢的小贝丝之外还有什么，在家里小跑，除了那里没有任何用处。我从来不想离开，现在最困难的是离开你们。我不害怕，但好像即使在天堂我也应该想家。

Jo could not speak, and for several minutes there was no sound but the sigh of the wind and the lapping of the tide. A white-winged gull flew by, with the flash of sunshine on its silvery breast. Beth watched it till it vanished, and her eyes were full of sadness. A little gray-coated sand bird came tripping over the beach ‘peeping’ softly to itself, as if enjoying the sun and sea. It came quite close to Beth, and looked at her with a friendly eye and sat upon a warm stone, dressing its wet feathers, quite at home. Beth smiled and felt comforted, for the tiny thing seemed to offer its small friendship and remind her that a pleasant world was still to be enjoyed.
乔说不出话来，接下来的几分钟里，除了风的叹息声和潮水的拍打声，什么声音也没有。一只白翅鸥飞过，银色的胸脯上闪烁着阳光。贝丝看着它直到它消失，她的眼里充满了悲伤。一只灰色的小沙鸟在海滩上绊倒，轻轻地“窥视”自己，好像在享受阳光和大海。它离贝丝很近，用友好的眼神看着她，然后坐在一块温暖的石头上，梳理着湿漉漉的羽毛，就像在家里一样。贝丝微笑着，感到很安慰，因为这个小东西似乎提供了它小小的友谊，并提醒她仍然可以享受一个愉快的世界。

‘Dear little bird! See, Jo, how tame it is. I like peeps better than the gulls. They are not so wild and handsome, but they seem happy, confiding little things. I used to call them my birds last summer, and Mother said they reminded her of me —busy, quaker-colored creatures, always near the shore, and always chirping that contented little song of theirs. You are the gull, Jo, strong and wild, fond of the storm and the wind, flying far out to sea, and happy all alone. Meg is the turtledove, and Amy is like the lark she write about, trying to get up among the clouds, but always dropping down into its nest again. Dear little girl! She’s so ambitious, but her heart is good and tender, and no matter how high she flies, she never will forget home. I hope I shall see her again, but she seems so far away.’
‘亲爱的小鸟！瞧，乔，它多驯服。比起海鸥，我更喜欢窥视者。他们并不那么狂野和英俊，但他们看起来很快乐，会倾诉一些小事。去年夏天我曾称它们为我的鸟儿，母亲说它们让她想起了我——忙碌的、贵格会色彩的生物，总是靠近海岸，总是叽叽喳喳地唱着他们那支满足的小歌。乔，你是海鸥，坚强而狂野，喜欢风暴和风，飞向遥远的大海，独自快乐。梅格是斑鸠，艾米就像她笔下的百灵鸟，试图在云层中升起，但总是又落入巢穴。亲爱的小女孩！她胸怀大志，但心地善良、温柔，无论飞得多高，她都不会忘记家。我希望能再次见到她，但她似乎离我们很遥远。”

‘She is coming in the spring, and I mean that you shall be all ready to see and enjoy her. I’m going to have you well and rosy by that time.’ began Jo, feeling that of all the changes in Beth, the talking change was the greatest, for it seemed to cost no effort now, and she thought aloud in a way quite unlike bashful Beth.
“她会在春天到来，我的意思是你们应该准备好去看她并享受她的乐趣。到时候我会让你身体健康、脸色红润。”乔开始说道，她觉得贝丝的所有变化中，说话的变化是最大的，因为现在似乎不需要费什么力气，她以某种方式大声地想道。与害羞的贝丝完全不同。

‘Jo, dear, don’t hope any more. It won’t do any good. I’m sure of that. We won’t be miserable, but enjoy being together while we wait. We’ll have happy times, for I don’t suffer much, and I think the tide will go out easily, if you help me.’
‘乔，亲爱的，别再抱希望了。这不会有任何好处。我确信这一点。我们不会感到痛苦，而是在等待时享受在一起的时光。我们会度过快乐的时光，因为我不会受太多的苦，而且我想，如果你帮助我，潮水就会很容易退去。

Jo leaned down to kiss the tranquil face, and with that silent kiss, she dedicated herself soul and body to Beth.
乔俯身亲吻那张平静的脸，用这个无声的吻，她将自己的灵魂和身体奉献给了贝丝。

She was right. There was no need of any words when they got home, for Father and Mother saw plainly now what they had prayed to be saved from seeing. Tired with her short journey, Beth went at once to bed, saying how glad she was to be home, and when Jo went down, she found that she would be spared the hard task of telling Beth’s secret. Her father stood leaning his head on the mantelpiece and did not turn as she came in, but her mother stretched out her arms as if for help, and Jo went to comfort her without a word.
她是对的。当他们回到家时，不需要任何言语，因为父亲和母亲现在清楚地看到了他们祈祷不要看到的东西。贝丝厌倦了短暂的旅程，立即上床睡觉，说她很高兴回到家，当乔下楼时，她发现自己可以免去告诉贝丝秘密的艰巨任务。她进来时，父亲把头靠在壁炉架上，没有转身，但母亲却伸出双臂，仿佛在寻求帮助，乔一言不发地走过去安慰她。

CHAPTER THIRTY-SEVEN
第三十七章

At three o’clock in the afternoon, all the fashionable world at Nice may be seen on the Promenade des Anglais—a charming place, for the wide walk, bordered with palms, flowers, and tropical shrubs, is bounded on one side by the sea, on the other by the grand drive, lined with hotels and villas, while beyond lie orange orchards and the hills. Many nations are represented, many languages spoken, many costumes worn, and on a sunny day the spectacle is as gay and brilliant as a carnival. Haughty English, lively French, sober Germans, handsome Spaniards, ugly Russians, meek Jews, free-and-easy Americans, all drive, sit, or saunter here, chatting over the news, and criticzing the latest celebrity who has arrived—Ristori or Dickens, Victor Emmanuel or the Queen of the Sandwich Islands. The equipages are as varied as the company and attract as much attention, especially the low basket barouches in which ladies drive themselves, with a pair of dashing ponies, gay nets to keep their voluminous flounces from overflowing the diminutive vehicles, and little grooms on the perch behind.
下午三点，英国人大道上可以看到尼斯的所有时尚世界——这是一个迷人的地方，宽阔的步行道周围种满了棕榈树、鲜花和热带灌木，一侧是大海，另一边是大车道，两旁都是酒店和别墅，远处是橘子园和山丘。许多国家都有代表，讲多种语言，穿着多种服装，在阳光明媚的日子里，场面就像狂欢节一样欢乐而辉煌。傲慢的英国人、活泼的法国人、清醒的德国人、英俊的西班牙人、丑陋的俄罗斯人、温顺的犹太人、自由自在的美国人，都开车、坐着或闲逛在这里，聊着新闻，批评着最新到来的名人——里斯托里或狄更斯、维克多·伊曼纽尔或桑威奇群岛女王。装备与公司一样多种多样，也吸引了很多关注，尤其是女士们自己驾驶的低篮马车，上面有一对潇洒的小马，欢快的网，以防止它们大量的荷叶边溢出小型车辆，还有小马夫在车上。栖息在后面。

Along this walk, on Christmas Day, a tall young man walked slowly, with his hands behind him, and a somewhat absent expression of countenance. He looked like an Italian, was dressed like an Englishman, and had the independent air of an American—a combination which caused sundry pairs of feminine eyes to look approvingly after him, and sundry dandies in black velvet suits, with rose-colored neckties, buff gloves, and orange flowers in their buttonholes, to shrug their shoulders, and then envy him his inches. There were plenty of pretty faces to admire, but the young man took little notice of them, except to glance now and then at some blonde girl in blue. Presently he strolled out of the promenade and stood a moment at the crossing, as if undecided whether to go and listen to the band in the Jardin Publique, or to wander along the beach toward Castle Hill. The quick trot of ponies feet made him look up, as one of the little carriages, containing a single young lady, came rapidly down the street. The lady was young, blonde, and dressed in blue. He stared a minute, then his whole face woke up, and, waving his hat like a boy, he hurried forward to meet her.
圣诞节那天，这条路上，一个身材高大的年轻人负着手，神情有些心不在焉地缓缓走着。他看起来像意大利人，穿得像英国人，还有美国人的独立气质——这种组合让各种各样的女性目光赞许地看着他，各种各样的花花公子穿着黑色天鹅绒西装，打着玫瑰色的领带，浅黄色的手套，扣眼里插着橙色的花朵，耸耸肩，然后羡慕他的寸头。漂亮的面孔有很多值得欣赏，但年轻人却很少注意到她们，只是时不时地看一眼某个金发蓝衣女孩。不久，他走出海滨长廊，在十字路口站了一会儿，似乎拿不定主意是去公共花园听乐队演奏，还是沿着海滩向城堡山漫步。小马蹄子的小跑声让他抬起头来，一辆小马车载着一位年轻女士，沿着街道快速驶来。这位女士很年轻，金发碧眼，穿着蓝色衣服。他凝视了一会儿，然后整个脸都清醒了，像个男孩一样挥舞着帽子，急忙上前迎接她。

‘Oh, Laurie, is it really you? I thought you’d never come!’ cried Amy, dropping the reins and holding out both hands, to the great scandalization of a French mamma, who hastened her daughter’s steps, lest she should be demoralized by beholding the free manners of these ‘mad English’.
‘哦，劳里，真的是你吗？我以为你永远不会来！”艾米丢下缰绳，伸出双手，大声喊道，这让一位法国妈妈大为震惊，她加快了女儿的脚步，以免她因看到这些“疯子”的自由举止而感到沮丧。英语'。

‘I was detained by the way, but I promised to spend Christmas with you, and here I am.’
“顺便说一句，我被拘留了，但我答应过要和你一起过圣诞节，所以我就来了。”

‘How is your grandfather? When did you come? Where are you staying?’
‘你的祖父怎么样了？你什么时候来？你住在哪里？'

‘Very well—last night—at the Chauvain. I called at your hotel, but you were out.’
“很好——昨晚——在沙文酒店。我给你的酒店打了电话，但你出去了。”

‘I have so much to say, I don’t know where to begin! Get in and we can talk at our ease. I was going for a drive and longing for company. Flo’s saving up for tonight.’
“我有很多话要说，却不知从何说起！进来我们可以轻松地交谈。我正要去兜风，渴望有人陪伴。弗洛正在为今晚存钱。”

‘What happens then, a ball?’
“那么会发生什么，一个球？”

‘A Christmas party at out hotel. There are many Americans there, and they give it in honor of the day. You’ll go with us, of course? Aunt will be charmed.’
“我们酒店的圣诞派对。那里有很多美国人，他们举办这个活动来纪念这一天。你当然会和我们一起去吗？阿姨一定会被迷住的。”

‘Thank you. Where now?’ asked Laurie, leaning back and folding his arms, a proceeding which suited Amy, who preferred to drive, for her parasol whip and blue reins over the white ponies backs afforded her infinite satisfaction.
'谢谢。 “现在在哪里？”劳里向后靠着，双臂交叉问道，这一做法很适合艾米，因为她更喜欢开车，因为她的阳伞鞭子和白色小马背上的蓝色缰绳给她带来了无限的满足。

‘I’m going to the bankers first for letters, and then to Castle Hill. The view is so lovely, and I like to feed the peacocks. Have you ever been there?’
“我先去银行家要信，然后再去城堡山。景色很美，我喜欢喂孔雀。你去过那儿吗？'

‘Often, years ago, but I don’t mind having a look at it.’
“很多年前，但我不介意看一下。”

‘Now tell me all about yourself. The last I heard of you, your grandfather wrote that he expected you from Berlin.’ ‘Yes, I spent a month there and then joined him in Paris, where he has settled for the winter. He has friends there and finds plenty to amuse him, so I go and come, and we got on capitally.’
‘现在告诉我关于你自己的一切。 “是的，我在那里待了一个月，然后到巴黎与他会合，他在那里过冬。他在那里有朋友，并找到很多可以让他开心的东西，所以我来来去去，我们相处得非常好。

‘That’s a sociable arrangement,’ said Amy, missing something in Laurie’s manner, though she couldn’t tell what.
“这是一种社交安排，”艾米说，她在劳里的举止中漏掉了一些东西，尽管她说不出来是什么。

‘Why, you see, he hates to travel, and I hate to keep still, so we each suit ourselves, and there is no trouble. I am often with him, and he enjoys my adventures, while I like to feel that someone is glad to see me when I get back from my wanderings. Dirty old hole, isn’t it?’ he added, with a look of disgust as they drove along the boulevard to the Place Napoleon in the old city.
‘哎呀，你看，他讨厌旅行，我讨厌安静，所以我们各取所需，没有什么麻烦。我经常和他在一起，他喜欢我的冒险，而我喜欢当我从流浪中回来时有人很高兴见到我。又脏又旧的洞，不是吗？”当他们沿着林荫大道开车前往老城区的拿破仑广场时，他一脸厌恶地补充道。

‘The dirt is picturesque, so I don’t mind. The river and the hills are delicious, and these glimpses of the narrow cross streets are my delight. Now we shall have to wait for that procession to pass. It’s going to the Church of St. John.’
“泥土风景如画，所以我不介意。河流和山丘都是美味的，狭窄的十字路口的一瞥也是我的乐趣。现在我们必须等待队伍过去。它要去圣约翰教堂。

While Laurie listlessly watched the procession of priests under their canopies, white-veiled nuns bearing lighted tapers, and some brotherhood in blue chanting as they walked, Amy watched him, and felt a new sort of shyness steal over her, for he was changed, and she could not find the merry-faced boy she left in the moody-looking man beside her. He was handsomer than ever and greatly improved, she thought, but now that the flush of pleasure at meeting her was over, he looked tired and spiritless—not sick, nor exactly unhappy, but older and graver than a year or two of prosperous life should have made him. She couldn’t understand it and did not venture to ask questions, so she shook her head and touched up her ponies, as the procession wound away across the arches of the Paglioni bridge and vanished in the church.
劳里无精打采地看着华盖下的牧师队伍，戴着白面纱的修女拿着点燃的蜡烛，还有一些穿着蓝色衣服的兄弟在行走时吟诵着圣歌，艾米看着他，感到一种新的羞怯悄悄笼罩着她，因为他变了，而她在身边那个喜怒无常的男人身上，却找不到她留下的那个笑脸的男孩。她想，他比以前更英俊了，进步也很大，但现在见到她时的兴奋已经过去了，他看起来疲倦而无精打采——不是生病，也不是不快乐，而是比一两年的繁荣生活更老、更严肃。应该让他。她无法理解，也不敢问问题，所以她摇了摇头，抚摸着她的小马，队伍蜿蜒穿过帕廖尼桥的拱门，消失在教堂里。

‘Que pensez-vous?’ she said, airing her French, which had improved in quantity, if not in quality, since she came abroad.
“Que pensez-vous？”她边说边用法语说，自从她出国以来，法语即使质量没有提高，在数量上也有了进步。

‘That mademoiselle has made good use of her time, and the result is charming,’ replied Laurie, bowing with his hand on his heart and an admiring look.
“那位小姐充分利用了自己的时间，结果很迷人。”劳里回答道，他把手放在胸前，一脸钦佩地鞠了一躬。

She blushed with pleasure, but somehow the compliment did not satisfy her like the blunt praises he used to give her at home, when he promenaded round her on festival occasions, and tole her she was ‘altogether jolly’, with a hearty smile and an approving pat on the head. She didn’t like the new tone, for though not blase, it sounded indifferent in spite of the look.
她高兴得脸红了，但不知何故，这种恭维并没有像他在家里对她的直言不讳的赞美那样让她满意，当他在节日场合围着她散步，告诉她她“非常快乐”，带着爽朗的微笑和拍拍头表示赞同。她不喜欢这个新的语气，因为虽然不令人厌烦，但尽管看起来很冷漠，但听起来却很冷漠。

‘If that’s the way he’s going to grow up, I wish he’s stay a boy,’ she thought, with a curious sense of disappointment and discomfort, trying meantime to seem quite easy and gay.
“如果这就是他长大的方式，我希望他一直是个男孩，”她想，带着一种奇怪的失望和不安的感觉，同时努力让自己看起来很轻松和快乐。

At Avigdor’s she found the precious home letters and, giving the reins to Laurie, read them luxuriously as they wound up the shady road between green hedges, where tea roses bloomed as freshly as in June.
在阿维格多家，她找到了珍贵的家书，把控制权交给了劳里，在绿色树篱之间的阴凉小路上悠然地读着它们，那里的茶玫瑰像六月一样新鲜地绽放着。

‘Beth is very poorly, Mother says. I often think I ought to go home, but they all say ‘stay’. So I do, for I shall never have another chance like this,’ said Amy, looking sober over one page.
“贝丝的情况非常糟糕，妈妈说。我常常想我应该回家，但他们都说“留下来”。所以我这么做了，因为我再也不会有这样的机会了。”艾米在一页纸上看起来很清醒。

‘I think you are right, there. You could do nothing at home, and it is a great comfort to them to know that you are well and happy, and enjoying so much, my dear.’
“我认为你是对的。”你在家里什么也做不了，亲爱的，知道你健康快乐，享受这么多，对他们来说是极大的安慰。”

He drew a little nearer, and looked more like his old self as he said that, and the fear that sometimes weighed on Amy’s heart was lightened, for the look, the act, the brotherly ‘my dear’, seemed to assure her that if any trouble did come, she would not be alone in a strange land. Presently she laughed and showed him a small sketch of Jo in her scribbling suit, with the bow rampantly erect upon her cap, and issuing from her mouth the words, ‘Genius burns!’.
他靠近了一些，说话时看起来更像是以前的自己了，有时压在艾米心头的恐惧也减轻了一些，因为他的眼神、动作、兄弟般的“亲爱的”似乎让她确信，如果就算遇到什么麻烦，她也不会孤身一人在异乡。不久，她大笑起来，给他看了一幅乔穿着涂鸦服的小素描，帽子上的蝴蝶结肆意地竖立着，嘴里吐出这样的话：“天才燃烧！”。

Laurie smiled, took it, put it in his vest pocket ‘to keep it from blowing away’, and listened with interest to the lively letter Amy read him.
劳里微笑着，接过它，把它放进背心口袋，“以免它被风吹走”，然后饶有兴趣地听着艾米给他读的生动的信。

‘This will be a regularly merry Christmas to me, with presents in the morning, you and letters in the afternoon, and a party at night,’ said Amy, as they alighted among the ruins of the old fort, and a flock of splendid peacocks came trooping about them, tamely waiting to be fed. While Amy stood laughing on the bank above him as she scattered crumbs to the brilliant birds, Laurie looked at her as she had looked at him, with a natural curiosity to see what changes time and absence had wrought. He found nothing to perplex or disappoint, much to admire and approve, for overlooking a few little affectations of speech and manner, she was as sprightly and graceful as ever, with the addition of that indescribable something in dress and bearing which we call elegance. Always mature for her age, she had gained a certain aplomb in both carriage and conversation, which made her seem more of a woman of the world than she was, but her old petulance now and then showed itself, her strong will still held its own, and her native frankness was unspoiled by foreign polish.
“对我来说，这将是一个例行公事的快乐圣诞节，早上有礼物，下午有你和信件，晚上有聚会，”艾米说道。孔雀在他们周围成群结队，温顺地等待着喂食。当艾米站在他头顶的河岸上大笑着，把面包屑撒给那些灿烂的鸟儿时，劳里像看着他一样看着她，带着一种天生的好奇心，想看看时间和缺席带来了什么变化。他没有发现任何令人困惑或失望的事情，反而令人钦佩和赞许，因为忽略了言语和举止中的一些小矫揉造作，她一如既往地活泼、优雅，在衣着和举止上增添了一种难以形容的东西，我们称之为优雅。相对于她的年龄来说，她总是显得成熟，无论是举止还是言谈，都显得有些沉着，这让她看起来比实际情况更像一个世故的女人，但她的旧脾气时不时地显露出来，她的坚强意志仍然不减。 ，她天生的坦率并没有被外国的修饰所破坏。

Laurie did not read all this while he watched her feed the peacocks, but he saw enough to satisfy and interest him, and carried away a pretty little picture of a bright-faced girl standing in the sunshine, which brought out the soft hue of her dress, the fresh color of her cheeks, the golden gloss of her hair, and made her a prominent figure in the pleasant scene.
劳里在看她喂孔雀的时候并没有读到所有这些，但他看到的已经足够让他满足和感兴趣了，他带走了一张漂亮的小照片，上面是一个面容明亮的女孩站在阳光下，衬托出她柔和的色调。裙子，脸颊的清新颜色，头发的金色光泽，使她在这令人愉快的场景中成为一个突出的人物。

As they came up onto the stone plateau that crowns the hill, Amy waved her hand as if welcoming him to her favorite haunt, and said, pointing here and there, ‘Do you remember the Cathedral and the Corso, the fishermen dragging their nets in the bay, and the lovely road to Villa Franca, Schubert’s Tower, just below, and best of all, that speck far out to sea which they say ils Corsica?’
当他们登上山顶的石头高原时，艾米挥了挥手，仿佛欢迎他来到她最喜欢出没的地方，并指着这里和那里说：“你还记得大教堂和科尔索吗？海湾，还有通往弗兰卡别墅的可爱道路，舒伯特塔就在下面，最重要的是，那个远离大海的斑点，他们说是科西嘉岛？

‘I remember. It’s not much changed,’ he answered without enthusiasm.
'我记得。没什么变化。”他毫无热情地回答。

‘What Jo would give for a sight of that famous speck!’ said Amy, feeling in good spirits and anxious to see him so also.
“为了看到那个著名的斑点，乔愿意付出什么代价！”艾米说，心情很好，也很想看到他。

‘Yes,’ was all he said, but he turned and strained his eyes to see the island which a greater usurper than even Napoleon now made interesting in his sight.
“是的，”他只说了一句，但他转过身来，睁大眼睛看这座岛屿，现在，这个甚至比拿破仑还要伟大的篡夺者也让他对这座岛屿产生了兴趣。

‘Take a good look at it for her sake, and then come and tell me what you have been doing with yourself all this while,’ said Amy, seating herself, ready for a good talk.
“为了她，好好看看，然后过来告诉我你这段时间都在做什么，”艾米说着，坐下来，准备好好谈谈。

But she did not get it, for though he joined her and answered all her questions freely, she could only learn that he had roved about the Continent and been to Greece. So after idling away an hour, they drove home again, and having paid his respects to Mrs. Carrol, Laurie left them, promising to return in the evening.
但她不明白，因为尽管他加入了她，并自由地回答了她所有的问题，但她只能得知他曾游历过欧洲大陆并去过希腊。于是，闲逛了一个小时后，他们又开车回家，向卡罗尔夫人致意后，劳里就离开了他们，并答应晚上回来。

It must be recorded of Amy that she deliberately prinked that night. Time and absence had done its work on both the young people. She had seen her old friend in a new light, not as ‘our boy’, but as a handsome and agreeable man, and she was conscious of a very natural desire to find favor in his sight. Amy knew her good points, and made the most of them with the taste and skill which is a fortune to a poor and pretty woman.
那天晚上艾米故意恶作剧的事肯定是有记录的。时间和缺席对两个年轻人都产生了影响。她以新的眼光看待她的老朋友，不再是“我们的男孩”，而是一个英俊而令人愉快的男人，她意识到有一种非常自然的愿望，想在他的眼中获得青睐。艾米知道自己的优点，并以品味和技巧充分利用了这些优点，这对于一个贫穷而漂亮的女人来说是一笔财富。

Tarlatan and tulle were cheap at Nice, so she enveloped herself in them on such occasions, and following the sensible English fashion of simple dress for young girls, got up charming little toilettes with fresh flowers, a few trinkets, and all manner of dainty devices, which were both inexpensive and effective. It must be confessed that the artist sometimes got possession of the woman, and indulged in antique coiffures, statuesque attitudes, and classic draperies. But, dear heart, we all have out little weaknesses, and find it easy to pardon such in the young, who satisfy our eyes with their comeliness, and keep our hearts merry with their artless vanities.
塔拉坦和薄纱在尼斯很便宜，所以在这种场合，她把自己裹在里面，并遵循年轻女孩简单着装的明智英国时尚，用鲜花、一些小饰品和各种精致的装置打造迷人的小盥洗室。 ，既便宜又有效。必须承认的是，艺术家有时会占有女人，并沉迷于古董发型、雕像般的态度和经典的窗帘。但是，亲爱的，我们都有一些小小的弱点，并且很容易原谅年轻人的这些弱点，他们用他们的美丽满足我们的眼睛，用他们纯真的虚荣让我们的心快乐。

‘I do want him to think I look well, and tell them so at home,’ said Amy to herself, as she put on Flo’s old white silk ball dress, and covered it with a cloud of fresh illusion, out of which her white shoulders and golden head emerged with a most artistic effect. Her hair she had the sense to let alone, after gathering up the thick waves and curls into a Hebe-like knot at the back of her head.
“我确实希望他认为我看起来很好，并在家里告诉他们，”艾米自言自语地说，她穿上了弗洛的旧白色丝绸舞会礼服，并用一团新鲜的幻觉覆盖它，其中她的白色肩膀和金色的脑袋浮现出来，最具艺术效果。她有一种感觉，把头发放在脑后，把浓密的波浪和卷曲收成一个像Hebe一样的结。

‘It’s not the fashion, but it’s becoming, and I can’t afford to make a fright of myself,’ she used to say, when advised to frizzle, puff, or braid, as the latest style commanded.
“这不是时尚，但它正在成为潮流，我不能让自己受到惊吓，”当有人建议她按照最新款式的要求，把头发卷成卷发、蓬松或编成辫子时，她常常这样说。

Having no ornaments fine enough for this important occasion, Amy looped her fleecy skirts with rosy clusters of azalea, and framed the white shoulders in delicate green vines. Remembering the painted boots, she surveyed her white satin slippers with girlish satisfaction, and chassed down the room, admiring her aristocratic feet all by herself.
由于没有适合这个重要场合的精美装饰品，艾米在她的羊毛裙子上挂满了玫瑰色的杜鹃花，并用精致的绿色藤蔓勾勒出白色的肩膀。想起那双彩绘靴子，她带着少女般的满足感审视着自己的白色缎子拖鞋，独自一人在房间里追着走，欣赏着自己的贵族双足。

‘My new fan just matches my flowers, my gloves fit to a charm, and the real lace on Aunt’s mouchoir gives an air to my whole dress. If I only had a classical nose and mouth I should be perfectly happy,’ she said, surveying herself with a critical eye and a candle in each hand.
“我的新扇子和我的花很相配，我的手套很合身，姨妈的毛衣上的真正蕾丝给我的整件衣服增添了一丝空气。如果我只有一个古典的鼻子和嘴巴，我会非常高兴，”她一边说，一边用挑剔的眼光打量着自己，每只手上都拿着一根蜡烛。

In spite of this affliction, she looked unusually gay and graceful as she glided away. She seldom ran—it did not suit her style, she thought, for being tall, the stately and Junoesque was more appropriate than the sportive or piquante. She walked up and down the long saloon while waiting for Laurie, and once arranged herself under the chandelier, which had a good effect upon her hair, then she thought better of it, and went away to the other end of the room, as if ashamed of the girlish desire to have the first view a propitious one. It so happened that she could not have done a better thing, for Laurie came in so quietly she did not hear him, and as she stood at the distant window, with her head half turned and one hand gathering up her dress, the slender, white figure against the red curtains was as effective as a well-placed statue.
尽管有这样的痛苦，当她走开时，她看起来异常快乐和优雅。她很少跑步——她认为这不适合她的风格，因为身材高大，庄严和朱诺式的风格比嬉戏或辛辣的风格更合适。她在长长的沙龙里来来回回地等待劳里，有一次把自己安排在枝形吊灯下，这对她的头发有很好的效果，然后她想了想，还是走到了房间的另一端，仿佛为少女般渴望第一眼看到吉祥的愿望而感到羞耻。碰巧她没有办法做得更好了，因为劳里进来的时候太安静了，她没有听到他的声音，当她站在远处的窗户前，半转过头，一只手挽起她的衣服时，那条纤细的裙子，白色的人物映衬在红色的窗帘上，就像一座摆放得当的雕像一样有效。

‘Good evening, Diana!’ said Laurie, with the look of satisfaction she liked to see in his eyes when they rested on her.
“晚上好，戴安娜！”劳里说，当他们靠在她身上时，她喜欢在他的眼睛里看到满意的表情。

‘Good evening, Apollo!’ she answered, smiling back at him, for he too looked unusually debonair, and the thought of entering the ballroom on the arm of such a personable man caused Amy to pity the four plain Misses Davis from the bottom of her heart.
“晚上好，阿波罗！”她回答道，对他微笑，因为他看起来也异常温文尔雅，一想到要挽着这样一位风度翩翩的男人的手臂进入舞厅，艾米就从心底里怜悯那四个相貌平平的戴维斯小姐。她的心。

‘Here are your flowers. I arranged them myself, remembering that you didn’t like what Hannah calls a ‘sot-bookay’, said Laurie, handing her a delicate nosegay, in a holder that she had long coveted as she daily passed it in Cardiglia’s window.
‘这是你的花。我自己安排了它们，记得你不喜欢汉娜所说的“sot-bookay”，劳里说，递给她一根精致的花束，放在她每天从卡迪利亚窗户经过时一直垂涎已久的支架里。

‘How kind you are!’ she exclaimed gratefully. ‘If I’d known you were coming I’d have had something ready for you today, though not as pretty as this, I’m afraid.’
“你真是太好了！”她感激地喊道。 “如果我知道你要来，我今天就会为你准备一些东西，尽管恐怕没有这个那么漂亮。”

‘Thank you. It isn’t what it should be, but you have improved it,’ he added, as she snapped the silver bracelet on her wrist.
'谢谢。这不是它应该的样子，但你已经改进了。”当她把银手镯扣在手腕上时，他补充道。

‘Please don’t.’
“请不要。”

‘I thought you liked that sort of thing.’
“我以为你喜欢那种东西。”

‘Not from you, it doesn’t sound natural, and I like your old bluntness better.’
“不是你说的，这听起来不自然，而且我更喜欢你以前的直率。”

‘I’m glad of it,’ he answered, with a look of relief, then buttoned her gloves for her, and asked if his tie was straight, just as he used to do when they went to parties together at home.
“我很高兴，”他一脸宽慰地回答，然后帮她扣上手套，并问他的领带是否系直，就像他们一起去家里参加聚会时他所做的那样。

The company assembled in the long salle a manger that evening was such as one sees nowhere but on the Continent. The hospitable Americans had invited every acquaintance they had in Nice, and having no prejudice against titles, secured a few to add luster to their Christmas ball.
那天晚上，公司在长厅里聚集了一个马槽，这种马槽除了在欧洲大陆之外别处都没有见过。好客的美国人邀请了他们在尼斯认识的每一位熟人，并且对头衔没有偏见，找了一些人来为他们的圣诞舞会增光添彩。

A Russian prince condescended to sit in a corner for an hour and talk with a massive lady, dressed like Hamlet’s mother in black velvet with a pearl bridle under her chin. A Polish count, aged eighteen, devoted himself to the ladies, who pronounced him, ‘a fascinating dear’, and a German Serene Something, having come to supper alone, roamed vaguely about, seeking what he might devour. Baron Rothschild’s private secretary, a largenosed Jew in tight boots, affably beamed upon the world, as if his master’s name crowned him with a golden halo. A stout Frenchman, who knew the Emperor, came to indulge his mania for dancing, and Lady de Jones, a British matron, adorned the scene with her little family of eight. Of course, there were many light-footed, shrill-voiced American girls, handsome, lifeless-looking English ditto, and a few plain but piquante French demoiselles, likewise the usual set of traveling young gentlemen who disported themselves gaily, while mammas of all nations lined the walls and smiled upon them benignly when they danced with their daughters.
一位俄罗斯王子屈尊坐在角落里与一位身材魁梧的女士交谈了一个小时，这位女士穿着像哈姆雷特的母亲一样的黑色天鹅绒，下巴下戴着珍珠缰绳。一位十八岁的波兰伯爵全心全意地为女士们服务，女士们称他为“一位令人着迷的亲爱的”，而一位德国的宁静的东西，独自来吃晚饭，茫然地四处闲逛，寻找他可以吞下的东西。罗斯柴尔德男爵的私人秘书是一位穿着紧身靴子的大鼻子犹太人，和蔼可亲地对着世界微笑，仿佛他主人的名字给他戴上了金色的光环。一位认识皇帝的胖法国人来满足他对舞蹈的狂热，英国主妇德·琼斯夫人带着她的八口之家点缀了这一场景。当然，有许多脚步轻快、声音尖锐的美国女孩，英俊而毫无生气的英国女孩，还有一些朴素但辛辣的法国少女，就像常见的一群旅行的年轻绅士，他们快乐地玩耍，而所有的妈妈当他们和自己的女儿们跳舞时，各国人民沿着城墙排列，向他们亲切地微笑。

Any young girl can imagine Amy’s state of mind when she ‘took the stage’ that night, leaning on Laurie’s arm. She knew she looked well, she loved to dance, she felt that her foot was on her native heath in a ballroom, and enjoyed the delightful sense of power which comes when young girls first discover the new and lovely kingdom they are born to rule by virtue of beauty, youth, and womanhood. She did pity the Davis girls, who were awkward, plain, and destitute of escort, except a grim papa and three grimmer maiden aunts, and she bowed to them in her friendliest manner as she passed, which was good of her, as it permitted them to see her dress, and burn with curiosity to know who her distinguished-looking friend might be. With the first burst of the band, Amy’s color rose, her eyes began to sparkle, and her feet to tap the floor impatiently, for she danced well and wanted Laurie to know it. Therefore the shock she received can better be imagined than described, when he said in a perfectly tranquil tone, ‘Do you care to dance?’
任何年轻女孩都可以想象艾米那天晚上靠着劳里的手臂“走上舞台”时的心态。她知道自己看起来很漂亮，她喜欢跳舞，她觉得自己的脚踩在舞厅里的原生石地上，享受着当年轻女孩第一次发现她们生来要统治的新而可爱的王国时所带来的令人愉悦的力量感。美丽、青春和女人味的美德。她确实可怜戴维斯家的女孩们，除了一个冷酷的爸爸和三个冷酷的未婚阿姨之外，她们笨拙、相貌平庸，没有人护送，她经过时以最友好的方式向她们鞠躬，这对她来说是件好事，因为它允许他们好奇地想看看她的衣服，想知道她那位相貌高贵的朋友可能是谁。随着乐队的第一声爆发，艾米的脸色涨红了，她的眼睛开始闪闪发光，她的脚不耐烦地敲着地板，因为她跳得很好，想让劳里知道这一点。因此，当他用完全平静的语气说：“你想跳舞吗？”时，她所受到的震惊是可以想象的，而不是描述的。

‘One usually does at a ball.’
“人们通常在舞会上这样做。”

Her amazed look and quick answer caused Laurie to repair his error as fast as possible.
她惊讶的表情和快速的回​​答使劳里尽快纠正了他的错误。

‘I meant the first dance. May I have the honor?’
“我指的是第一支舞。我可以有幸吗？

‘I can give you one if I put off the Count. He dances devinely, but he will excuse me, as you are an old friend,’ said Amy, hoping that the name would have a good effect, and show Laurie that she was not to be trifled with.
“如果我推迟伯爵的话，我可以给你一份。”他跳舞跳得非常美妙，不过他会原谅我的，因为你是我的老朋友了。”艾米说道，希望这个名字能起到很好的效果，让劳里知道她是不好惹的。

‘Nice little boy, but rather a short Pole to support . .. A daughter of the gods, Devinely tall, and most devinely fair,’
“不错的小男孩，但需要支撑一根短杆。” ..众神的女儿，极其高大，极其美丽，”

was all the satisfaction she got, however.
然而，这就是她得到的全部满足。

The set in which they found themselves was composed of English, and Amy was compelled to walk decorously through a cotillion, feeling all the while as if she could dance the tarantella with relish. Laurie resigned her to the ‘nice little boy’, and went to do his duty to Flo, without securing Amy for the joys to come, which reprehensible want of forethought was properly punished, for she immediately engaged herself till supper, meaning to relent if he then gave any signs penitence. She showed him her ball book with demure satisfaction when he strolled instead of rushed up to claim her for the next, a glorious polka redowa. But his polite regrets didn’t impose upon her, and when she galloped away with the Count, she saw Laurie sit down by her aunt with an actual expression of relief.
他们发现自己所处的场景是由英语组成的，艾米被迫优雅地走过舞会，一直感觉自己好像可以津津有味地跳塔兰泰拉舞。劳里把她交给了“好小男孩”，然后去履行他对弗洛的职责，没有确保艾米享受即将到来的欢乐，这种应受谴责的缺乏深谋远虑的行为受到了适当的惩罚，因为她立即忙到晚饭，打算放松一下，如果然后他做出了任何忏悔的迹象。当他漫步而不是冲上来要求她参加下一场光荣的波尔卡雷多瓦舞时，她带着端庄的满足向他展示了她的球册。但他礼貌的遗憾并没有强加给她，当她和伯爵一起飞奔而去时，她看到劳里坐在她姨妈旁边，脸上露出真正松了口气的表情。

That was unpardonable, and Amy took no more notice of him for a long while, except a word now and then when she came to her chaperon between the dances for a necessary pin or a moment’s rest. Her anger had a good effect, however, for she hid it under a smiling face, and seemed unusually blithe and brilliant. Laurie’s eyes followed her with pleasure, for she neither romped nor sauntered, but danced with spirit and grace, making the delightsome pastime what it should be. He very naturally fell to studying her from this new point of view, and before the evening was half over, had decided that ‘little Amy was going to make a very charming woman’.
这是不可原谅的，艾米很长一段时间都没有再理会他，除了在舞会间隙走到她的监护人那里进行必要的别针或片刻休息时，偶尔说一句话。不过，她的愤怒却起到了很好的效果，因为她把愤怒隐藏在微笑之下，显得异常的愉快和聪明。劳里的目光愉快地追随着她，因为她既不嬉戏也不闲逛，而是充满活力和优雅地跳舞，使这种令人愉悦的消遣成为本应有的样子。他很自然地开始从这个新的角度来研究她，在晚上过半之前，他决定“小艾米会成为一个非常迷人的女人”。

It was a lively scene, for soon the spirit of the social season took possession of everyone, and Christmas merriment made all faces shine, hearts happy, and heels light. The musicians fiddled, tooted, and banged as if they enjoyed it, everybody danced who could, and those who couldn’t admired their neighbors with uncommon warmth. The air was dark with Davises, and many Jones gamboled like a flock of young giraffes. The golden secretary darted through the room like a meteor with a dashing frenchwoman who carped the floor with her pink satin train. The serene Teuton found the supper table and was happy, eating steadily through the bill of fare, and dismayed the garcons by the ravages he committed. But the Emperor’s friend covered himself with glory, for he danced everything, whether he knew it or not, and introduced impromptu pirouettes when the figures bewildered him. The boyish abandon of that stout man was charming to behold, for though he ‘carried weight’, he danced like an India-rubber ball. He ran, he flew, he pranced, his face glowed, his bald head shown, his coattails waved wildly, his pumps actually twinkled in the air, and when the music stopped, he wiped the drops from his brow, and beamed upon his fellow men like a French Pickwick without glasses.
这是一个热闹的场面，很快，社交季节的气氛就笼罩了每个人，圣诞节的欢乐让每个人的脸上都焕发着光彩，心中充满了快乐，脚后跟也变得轻盈起来。音乐家们演奏着小提琴，吹着喇叭，敲着，好像他们很享受，每个能跳舞的人都跳舞，而那些不能跳舞的人则以不同寻常的热情钦佩他们的邻居。戴维斯的空气一片漆黑，许多琼斯像一群小长颈鹿一样嬉戏。金色秘书像流星一样冲过房间，身边是一位风度翩翩的法国女人，她的粉红色缎子裾裙拖地地板。平静的条顿人找到了晚饭桌，他很高兴，稳定地吃完账单，他所犯下的破坏令加尔康人感到沮丧。但皇帝的朋友却洋溢着荣耀，因为无论他是否知道，他都会跳舞，当那些人物让他感到困惑时，他就会即兴旋转。那个粗壮的男人孩子气的放纵看上去很迷人，因为尽管他“负重”，但他跳舞却像印度橡皮球一样。他跑，他飞，他腾跃，他的脸容光焕发，他的光头露出来，他的燕尾服疯狂地挥舞，他的高跟鞋实际上在空中闪烁，当音乐停止时，他擦掉额头上的水滴，微笑着看着他的同伴男人就像不戴眼镜的法国匹克威克。

Amy and her Pole distinguished themselves by equal enthusiasm but more graceful agility, and Laurie found himself involuntarily keeping time to the rhythmic rise and fall of the white slippers as they flew by as indefatigably as if winged. When little Vladimir finally relinquished her, with assurances that he was ‘desolated to leave so early’, she was ready to rest, and see how her recreant knight had borne his punishment.
艾米和她的波兰人以同样的热情和更加优雅的敏捷而著称，劳里发现自己不由自主地跟上白色拖鞋有节奏的起落，因为它们不知疲倦地飞过，就像长了翅膀一样。当小弗拉基米尔最终放弃了她，并保证他“这么早离开很伤心”时，她准备休息，看看她那个胆怯的骑士如何承受他的惩罚。

It had been successful, for at three-and-twenty, blighted affections find a balm in friendly society, and young nerves will thrill, young blood dance, and healthy young spirits rise, when subjected to the enchantment of beauty, light, music, and motion. Laurie had a waked-up look as he rose to give her his seat, and when he hurried away to bring her some supper, she said to herself, with a satisfied smile, ‘Ah, I thought that would do him good!’
它是成功的，因为在三岁和二十岁的时候，枯萎的情感在友好的社会中找到了安慰，当受到美、光、音乐、和运动。当他起身给她让座时，劳里一脸清醒，当他匆​​匆走开去给她送晚饭时，她满意地微笑着对自己说：“啊，我想这对他有好处！”

‘You look like Balzac’s ‘FEMME PEINTE PAR ELLE-NENE’,’ he said, as he fanned her with one hand and held her coffee cup in the other.
“你看起来就像巴尔扎克的《FEMME PEINTE PAR ELLE-NENE》，”他一边说，一边用一只手为她扇风，另一只手握住她的咖啡杯。

‘My rouge won’t come off.’ And Amy rubbed her brilliant cheek, and showed him her white glove with a sober simplicity that made him laugh outright.
“我的胭脂不会掉下来。”艾米揉了揉她光彩照人的脸颊，向他展示了她的白手套，朴素的表情让他哈哈大笑。

‘What do you call this stuff?’ he asked, touching a fold of her dress that had blown over his knee.
“你管这个东西叫什么？”他问道，摸着她裙子上的一处被风吹过他膝盖的褶子。

‘Illusion.’
'错觉。'

‘Good name for it. It’s very pretty—new thing, isn’t it?’
‘这个名字起得好。它非常漂亮——新事物，不是吗？

‘It’s as old as the hills. You have seen it on dozens of girls, and you never found out that it was pretty till now? Stupide!’
‘它和山一样古老。你已经在几十个女孩身上看到过它，但你到现在都没发现它漂亮吗？蠢货！’

‘I never saw it on you before, which accounts for the mistake, you see.’
“我以前从没在你身上看到过它，这就是这个错误的原因，你瞧。”

‘None of that, it is forbidden. I’d rather take coffee than compliments just now. No, don’t lounge, it makes me nervous.’
‘这都不是，这是禁止的。我现在宁愿喝咖啡也不愿接受赞美。不，别闲着，这让我紧张。”

Laurie sat bold upright, and meekly took her empty plate feeling an odd sort of pleasure in having ‘little Amy’ order him about, for she had lost her shyness now, and felt an irrestible desire to trample on him, as girls have a delightful way of doing when lords of creation show any signs of subjection.
劳里大胆地坐直了身子，温顺地接过她的空盘子，因为“小艾米”对他指手画脚，她感到一种奇怪的快乐，因为她现在已经不再害羞了，她感到一种不可抗拒的想要踩在他身上的欲望，就像女孩子们有一种令人愉快的感觉一样。当造物之主表现出任何屈服迹象时的做法。

‘Where did you learn all this sort of thing?’ he asked with a quizzical look.
“你从哪里学到这些东西的？”他一脸疑惑地问道。

‘As ‘this sort of thing’ is rather a vague expression, would you kindly explain?’ returned Amy, knowing perfectly well what he meant, but wickedly leaving him to describe what is indescribable.
“‘这种事’是一个相当模糊的表达，你能解释一下吗？”艾米回答道，她完全明白他的意思，但邪恶地让他去描述那些难以描述的事情。

‘Well—the general air, the style, the self-possession, the— the—illusion—you know’, laughed Laurie, breaking down and helping himself out of his quandary with the new word.
“嗯——整体氛围、风格、沉着、——你知道的——幻觉”，劳里笑着说，他崩溃了，用这个新词帮助自己摆脱了困境。

Amy was gratified, but of course didn’t show it, and demurely answered, ‘Foreign life polishes one in spite of one’s self. I study as well as play, and as for this’—with a little gesture toward her dress—‘why, tulle is cheap, posies to be had for nothing, and I am used to making the most of my poor little things.’
艾米心中一喜，但当然没有表现出来，故作端庄地回答道：“异国生活不顾一切磨砺人。”我一边学习一边玩耍，至于这一点——对着她的衣服做了个手势——“为什么，薄纱很便宜，花束是免费的，而我习惯于充分利用我可怜的小东西。”

Amy rather regretted that last sentence, fearing it wasn’t in good taste, but Laurie liked her better for it, and found himself both admiring and respecting the brave patience that made the most of opportunity, and the cheerful spirit that covered poverty with flowers. Amy did not know why he looked at her so kindly, now why he filled up her book with his own name, and devoted himself to her for the rest of the evening in the most delightful manner, but the impulse that wrought this agreeable change was the result of one of the new impressions which both of them were unconsciously giving and receiving.
艾米对最后一句话感到相当后悔，担心这不合时宜，但劳里因此更喜欢她，并发现自己既钦佩又尊重她充分利用机会的勇敢耐心，以及用鲜花掩盖贫困的快乐精神。 。艾米不知道他为什么如此友善地看着她，为什么他在她的书上填满了自己的名字，并以最令人愉快的方式在整个晚上把自己奉献给了她，但造成这种令人愉快的变化的冲动是这是他们两人无意识地给予和接受的一种新印象的结果。

CHAPTER THIRTY-EIGHT
第三十八章

In France the young girls have a dull time of it till they are married, when ‘Vive la liberte!’ becomes their motto. In America, as everyone knows, girls early sign the declaration of independence, and enjoy their freedom with republican zest, but the young matrons usually abdicate with the first heir to the throne and go into a seclusion almost as close as a French nunnery, though by no means as quiet. Whether they like it or not, they are virtually put upon the shelf as soon as the wedding excitement is over, and most of them might exclaim, as did a very pretty woman the other day, ‘I’m as handsome as ever, but no one takes any notice of me because I’m married.’
在法国，年轻女孩在结婚之前会度过一段无聊的时光，“自由万岁！”成为她们的座右铭。众所周知，在美国，女孩们很早就签署了独立宣言，带着共和主义的热情享受着自由，但年轻的主妇们通常会和第一任王位继承人一起退位，然后隐居到几乎像法国修道院一样的地方。绝不是那么安静。不管他们喜欢与否，一旦婚礼的兴奋一结束，他们实际上就被束之高阁了，他们中的大多数人可能会像前几天一个非常漂亮的女人那样惊呼，“我和以前一样英俊，但是没有人注意到我，因为我已经结婚了。”

Not being a belle or even a fashionable lady, Meg did not experience this affliction till her babies were a year old, for in her little world primitive customs prevailed, and she found herself more admired and beloved than ever.
梅格不是一个美女，甚至不是一个时尚女士，直到她的孩子一岁时才经历这种痛苦，因为在她的小世界里，原始习俗盛行，她发现自己比以往任何时候都更受钦佩和爱戴。

As she was a womanly little woman, the maternal instinct was very strong, and she was entirely absorbed in her children, to the utter exclusion of everything and everybody else. Day and night she brooded over them with tireless devotion and anxiety, leaving John to the tender mercies of the help, for an Irish lady now presided over the kitchen department. Being a domestic man, John decidedly missed the wifely attentions he had been accustomed to receive, but as he adored his babies, he cheerfully relinquished his comfort for a time, supposing with masculine ignorance that peace would soon be restored. But three months passed, and there was no return of repose. Meg looked worn and nervous, the babies absorbed every minute of her time, the house was neglected, and Kitty, the cook, who took life ‘aisy’, kept him on short commons. When he went out in the morning he was bewildered by small commissions for the captive mamma, if he came gaily in at night, eager to embrace his family, he was quenched by a ‘Hush! They are just asleep after worrying all day.’ If he proposed a little amusement at home, ‘No, it would disturb the babies.’ If he hinted at a lecture or a concert, he was answered with a reproachful look, and a decided ‘Leave my children for pleasure, never!’ His sleep was broken by infant wails and visions of a phantom figure pacing noiselessly to and fro in the watches of the night. His meals were interrupted by the frequent flight of the presiding genius, who deserted him, half-helped, if a muffled chirp sounded from the nest above. And when he read his paper of an evening, Demi’s colic got into the shipping list and Daisy’s fall affected the price of stocks, for Mrs. Brooke was only interested in domestic news.
由于她是一个有女人味的小女人，母性本能非常强烈，她完全专注于自己的孩子，完全排斥一切和其他人。她日以继夜地以不知疲倦的奉献和焦虑来照顾他们，让约翰得到温柔的帮助，因为现在由一位爱尔兰女士主持厨房部门。作为一个顾家的男人，约翰显然怀念他所习惯的妻子般的关注，但由于他爱他的孩子，他高兴地暂时放弃了他的舒适，以男性的无知认为和平很快就会恢复。但三个月过去了，还没有恢复平静。梅格看起来疲惫而紧张，孩子们把她的每一分钟都投入其中，房子被忽视了，基蒂，这位厨师，过着“轻松”的生活，让他的公地资源短缺。当他早上出去时，他会对被俘虏的妈妈的小任务感到困惑，如果他晚上高兴地回来，渴望拥抱他的家人，他会被一声“嘘！他们担心了一整天之后就睡着了。”如果他提议在家里搞一点娱乐活动，“不，这会打扰婴儿。”如果他暗示要举办一场讲座或一场音乐会，他得到的回答是责备的表情和坚决的态度。 “让我的孩子们去享乐吧，永远不要！”他的睡眠被婴儿的哭声和夜里无声地来回踱步的幻影所打破。他的饭菜被主持的天才的频繁飞行打断了，如果上面的鸟巢里传来一声低沉的叽叽喳喳声，他就会半途而废地抛弃他。当他读到晚上的报纸时，黛米的肠绞痛进入了发货清单，黛西的跌倒影响了股票价格，因为布鲁克夫人只对国内新闻感兴趣。

The poor man was very uncomfortable, for the children had bereft him of his wife, home was merely a nursery and the perpetual ‘hushing’ made him feel like a brutal intruder whenever he entered the sacred precincts of Babyland. He bore it very patiently for six months, and when no signs of amendment appeared, he did what other paternal exiles do—tried to get a little comfort elsewhere. Scott had married and gone to housekeeping not far off, and John fell into the way of running over for an hour or two of an evening, when his own parlor was empty, and his own wife singing lullabies that seemed to have no end. Mrs. Scott was a lively, pretty girl, with nothing to do but be agreeable, and she performed her mission most successfully. The parlor was always bright and attractive, the chessboard ready, the piano in tune, plenty of gay gossip, and a nice little supper set forth in tempting style.
这个可怜的男人感到非常不舒服，因为孩子们失去了他的妻子，家只是一个托儿所，永远的“安静”让他每次进入巴比兰的神圣区域时都感觉自己像一个残酷的入侵者。他非常耐心地忍受了六个月，当没有出现任何改变的迹象时，他做了其他父亲流亡者所做的事情——试图在别处得到一点安慰。斯科特已经结婚了，去不远的地方做家务，而约翰则陷入了每天晚上跑过来一两个小时的习惯，那时他自己的客厅空无一人，而他自己的妻子则唱着似乎没完没了的摇篮曲。斯科特夫人是一个活泼、漂亮的女孩，除了和蔼可亲之外无所事事，她非常成功地完成了她的使命。客厅总是明亮而迷人，棋盘准备好了，钢琴调准了，有很多同性恋的八卦，还有一顿诱人的小晚餐。

John would have preferred his own fireside if it had not been so lonely, but as it was he gratefully took the next best thing and enjoyed his neighbor’s society.
如果不是那么孤独的话，约翰会更喜欢自己的炉边，但事实上，他感激地接受了退而求其次的选择，并享受与邻居的交往。

Meg rather approved of the new arrangement at first, and found it a relief to know that John was having a good time instead of dozing in the parlor, or tramping about the house and waking the children. But by-and-by, when the teething worry was over and the idols went to sleep at proper hours, leaving Mamma time to rest, she began to miss John, and find her workbasket dull company, when he was not sitting opposite in his old dressing gown, comfortably scorching his slippers on the fender. She would not ask him to stay at home, but felt injured because he did not know that she wanted him without being told, entirely forgetting the many evenings he had waited for her in vain. She was nervous and worn out with watching and worry, and in that unreasonable frame of mind which the best of mothers occasionally experience when domestic cares oppress them. Want of exercise robs them of cheerfulness, and too much devotion to that idol of American women, the teapot, makes them feel as if they were all nerve and no muscle.
梅格一开始相当赞同这个新安排，当知道约翰玩得很开心，而不是在客厅里打瞌睡，或者在房子里走来走去，吵醒孩子们时，她感到很欣慰。但渐渐地，当出牙期的忧虑过去了，偶像们在适当的时间入睡，让妈妈有时间休息时，她开始想念约翰，发现她的工作篮无聊地陪伴着他，因为他没有坐在他对面的座位上。旧晨衣，拖鞋在挡泥板上舒服地烤焦。她不会要求他留在家里，但她感到很受伤，因为他不知道她在没有告诉的情况下想要他，完全忘记了他徒劳地等待她的许多个夜晚。她因注视和担心而感到紧张和疲惫，并且处于那种不合理的心态中，这是最好的母亲在家庭琐事压迫她们时偶尔会经历的。缺乏锻炼使她们失去了快乐，而过多地迷恋美国女性的偶像——茶壶，​​又让她们觉得自己神经兮兮，没有肌肉。

‘Yes,’ she would say, looking in the glass, ‘I’m getting old and ugly. John doesn’t find me interesting any longer, so he leaves his faded wife and goes to see his pretty neighbor, who has no incumbrances. Well, the babies love me, they don’t care if I am thin and pale and haven’t time to crimp my hair, they are my comfort, and some day John will see what I’ve gladly sacrificed for them, won’t he, my precious?’
“是的，”她看着镜子说，“我变老了，也变丑了。”约翰不再觉得我有趣了，所以他离开了他褪色的妻子，去看他漂亮的邻居，她没有任何负担。好吧，孩子们爱我，他们不在乎我是否又瘦又苍白，也没有时间卷曲我的头发，他们是我的安慰，有一天约翰会看到我欣然为他们牺牲的一切，不会的。是吗，我的宝贝？

To which pathetic appeal daisy would answer with a coo, or Demi with a crow, and Meg would put by her lamentations for a maternal revel, which soothed her solitude for the time being. But the pain increased as politics absorbed John, who was always running over to discuss interesting points with Scott, quite unconscious that Meg missed him. Not a word did she say, however, till her mother found her in tears one day, and insisted on knowing what the matter was, for Meg’s drooping spirits had not escaped her observation.
黛西会用咕咕声回应可怜的请求，或者黛米用乌鸦回应，而梅格会放下她的哀叹，转​​而享受母性的狂欢，这暂时缓解了她的孤独。但随着政治的介入，约翰的痛苦也随之增加，约翰总是跑过去和斯科特讨论有趣的观点，完全没有意识到梅格想念他。然而，她一言不发，直到有一天她母亲发现她在流泪，并坚持要知道发生了什么事，因为梅格低落的情绪没有逃过她的观察。

‘I wouldn’t tell anyone except you, Mother, but I really do need advice, for if John goes on much longer I might as well be widowed,’ replied Mrs. Brooke, drying her tears on Daisy’s bib with an injured air.
“除了你，我不会告诉任何人，妈妈，但我确实需要建议，因为如果约翰再这样下去，我还不如守寡呢。”布鲁克太太回答道，用黛西的围脖擦干眼泪，神情受伤。

‘Goes on how, my dear?’ asked her mother anxiously.
“怎么样了，亲爱的？”妈妈焦急地问。

‘He’s away all day, and at night when I want to see him, he is continually going over to the Scotts’. It isn’t fair that I should have the hardest work, and never any amusement. Men are very selfish, even the best of them.’
“他整天都不在家，晚上当我想见他时，他总是去找斯科特一家。”我应该从事最艰苦的工作，却没有任何娱乐，这是不公平的。男人都是非常自私的，即使是最优秀的人也是如此。”

‘So are women. Don’t blame John till you see where you are wrong yourself.’
‘女人也是如此。在你自己明白自己错在哪里之前，不要责怪约翰。

‘But it can’t be right for him to neglect me.’
“但他忽视我是不对的。”

‘Don’t you neglect him?’
“你没有忽视他吗？”

‘Why, Mother, I thought you’d take my part!’
“哎呀，妈妈，我以为你会支持我呢！”

‘So I do, as far as sympathizing goes, but I think the fault is yours, Meg.’
“就同情而言，我确实这么做，但我认为错在你，梅格。”

‘I don’t see how.’
“我不明白怎么办。”

‘Let me show you. Did John ever neglect you, as you call it, while you made it a point to give him your society of an evening, his only leisure time?’
'我来给你展示。约翰有没有忽视过你，正如你所说的那样，而你却特意给他一个晚上的陪伴，这是他唯一的休闲时间？

‘No, but I can’t do it now, with two babies to tend.’
“不，但我现在不能这么做，因为我要照顾两个孩子。”

‘I think you could, dear, and I think you ought. May I speak quite freely, and will you remember that it’s Mother who blames as well as Mother who sympathizes?’
“我认为你可以，亲爱的，而且我认为你应该这样做。我可以畅所欲言吗？你还记得吗，责怪的是母亲，同情的也是母亲？

‘Indeed I will! Speak to me as if I were little Meg again. I often feel as if I needed teaching more than ever since these babies look to me for everything.’
‘我确实会的！跟我说话，就像我又是小梅格一样。我常常觉得自己比以往任何时候都更需要教学，因为这些婴儿的一切都指望我。”

Meg drew her low chair beside her mother’s, and with a little interruption in either lap, the two women rocked and talked lovingly together, feeling that the tie of motherhood made them more one than ever.
梅格把她的矮椅子拉到她母亲的旁边，两个女人在两边的腿上稍稍休息了一下，摇晃着，亲切地交谈着，感觉母性的纽带使她们比以往任何时候都更加团结。

‘You have only made the mistake that most young wives make-forgotten your duty to your husband in your love for your children. A very natural and forgivable mistake, Meg, but one that had better be remedied before you take to different ways, for children should draw you nearer than ever, not separate you, as if they were all yours, and John had nothing to do but support them. I’ve seen it for some weeks, but have not spoken, feeling sure it would come right in time.’
“你只是犯了大多数年轻妻子常犯的错误——在爱孩子的过程中忘记了对丈夫的责任。这是一个非常自然和可以原谅的错误，梅格，但在你采取不同的方式之前最好纠正这个错误，因为孩子们应该比以往任何时候都更接近你，而不是分开你，就好像他们都是你的，而约翰无事可做，除了支持他们。我已经看到它好几个星期了，但没有说话，我确信它会及时到来。”

‘I’m afraid it won’t. If I ask him to stay, he’ll think I’m jealous, and I wouldn’t insult him by such an idea. He doesn’t see that I want him, and I don’t know how to tell him without words.’
‘恐怕不会。如果我让他留下来，他会认为我嫉妒，而我不会用这样的想法来侮辱他。他没有看出我想要他，我不知道如何不用言语告诉他。

‘Make it so pleasant he won’t want to go away. My dear, he’s longing for his little home, but it isn’t home without you, and you are always in the nursery.’
‘让一切变得如此愉快，他不想离开。亲爱的，他渴望他的小家，但没有你就不是家，而你总是在托儿所里。

‘Oughtn’t I to be there?’
“我不应该在那儿吗？”

‘Not all the time, too much confinement makes you nervous, and then you are unfitted for everything. Besides, you owe something to John as well as to the babies. Don’t neglect husband for children, don’t shut him out of the nursery, but teach him how to help in it. His place is there as well as yours, and the children need him. Let him feel that he has a part to do, and he will do it gladly and faithfully, and it will be better for you all.’
“并非总是如此，太多的限制会让你紧张，然后你就无法适应一切。此外，你还欠约翰和孩子们一些东西。不要为了孩子而忽视丈夫，不要把他拒之门外，而要教他如何帮忙。他的位置和你的一样，孩子们需要他。让他觉得他有自己的职责要做，他会高兴而忠实地去做，这对你们大家来说都会更好。

‘You really think so, Mother?’
“你真的这么认为吗，妈妈？”

‘I know it, Meg, for I’ve tried it, and I seldom give advice unless I’ve proved its practicability. When you and Jo were little, I went on just as you are, feeling as if I didn’t do my duty unless I devoted myself wholly to you. Poor Father took to his books, after I had refused all offers of help, and left me to try my experiment alone. I struggled along as well as I could, but Jo was too much for me. I nearly spoiled her by indulgence. You were poorly, and I worried about you till I fell sick myself. Then Father came to the rescue, quietly managed everything, and made himself so helpful that I saw my mistake, and never have been able to got on without him since. That is the secret of our home happiness. He does not let business wean him from the little cares and duties that affect us all, and I try not to let domestic worries destroy my interest in his pursuits. Each do our part alone in many things, but at home we work together, always.’
“我知道，梅格，因为我已经尝试过了，除非我证明了它的实用性，否则我很少提出建议。当你和乔还小的时候，我就和你们一样，觉得除非我把自己完全奉献给你们，否则我就没有尽到自己的职责。在我拒绝了所有的帮助后，可怜的父亲开始看他的书，留下我独自尝试我的实验。我尽我所能地挣扎着，但乔对我来说太难了。我的纵容几乎把她宠坏了。你身体不好，我很担心你，直到我自己也生病了。后来父亲出手相救，默默地处理着一切，他也帮了我很大的忙，让我认识到了自己的错误，从那以后，没有他我就再也活不下去了。这就是我们家庭幸福的秘诀。他并没有让生意让他放弃影响我们所有人的小事和责任，我也尽量不让家庭忧虑破坏我对他追求的兴趣。每个人在很多事情上都独自完成自己的部分，但在家里我们总是一起工作。

‘It is so, Mother, and my great wish is to be to my husband and children what you have been to yours. Show me how, I’ll do anything you say.’
“是的，母亲，我最大的愿望就是像您对待自己的丈夫和孩子一样。告诉我怎么做，我会照你说的做。

‘You were always my docile daughter. Well, dear, if I were you, I’d let John have more to do with the management of Demi, for the boy needs training, and it’s none too soon to begin. Then I’d do what I have often proposed, let Hannah come and help you. She is a capital nurse, and you may trust the precious babies to her while you do more housework. You need the exercise, Hannah would enjoy the rest, and John would find his wife again. Go out more, keep cheerful as well as busy, for you are the sunshine-maker of the family, and if you get dismal there is no fair weather. Then I’d try to take an interest in whatever John likes—talk with him, let him read to you, exchange ideas, and help each other in that way. Don’t shut yourself up in a bandbox because you are a woman, but understand what is going on, and educate yourself to take your part in the world’s work, for it all affects you and yours.’
‘你一直是我温顺的女儿。好吧，亲爱的，如果我是你，我会让约翰更多地参与黛米的管理，因为这个男孩需要训练，而且现在开始还不算太早。然后我会按照我经常建议的那样，让汉娜来帮助你。她是一名首都护士，你可以在做更多家务的同时，把宝贝宝宝托付给她。你需要锻炼，汉娜会享受休息，约翰会再次找到他的妻子。多出去走走，保持心情愉快，忙碌起来，因为你是家里的阳光制造者，心情郁闷就没有好天气。然后我会尝试对约翰喜欢的任何事情感兴趣——与他交谈，让他读书给你听，交换想法，并以这种方式互相帮助。不要因为你是一个女人而把自己关在乐队里，而是要了解正在发生的事情，并教育自己参与世界的工作，因为这一切都会影响你和你的家人。

‘John is so sensible, I’m afraid he will think I’m stupid if I ask questions about politics and things.’
“约翰很懂事，我担心如果我问政治之类的问题，他会认为我很蠢。”

‘I don’t believe he would. Love covers a multitude of sins, and of whom could you ask more freely than of him? Try it, and see if he doesn’t find your society far more agreeable than Mrs. Scott’s suppers.’
‘我不相信他会。爱能遮掩许多的罪孽，你还能向谁提出比他更自由的请求呢？试试吧，看看他是否觉得你们的交往比斯科特夫人的晚餐更令人愉快。

‘I will. Poor John! I’m afraid I have neglected him sadly, but I thought I was right, and he never said anything.’
'我会。可怜的约翰！我担心我悲伤地忽视了他，但我认为我是对的，他什么也没说。

‘He tried not to be selfish, but he has felt rather forlorn, I fancy. This is just the time, Meg, when young married people are apt to grow apart, and the very time when they ought to be most together, for the first tenderness soon wears off, unless care is taken to preserve it. And no time is so beautiful and precious to parents as the first years of the little lives given to them to train. Don’t let John be a stranger to the babies, for they will do more to keep him safe and happy in this world of trial and temptation than anything else, and through them you will learn to know and love one another as you should. Now, dear, good-by. Think over Mother’s preachment, act upon it if it seems good, and God bless you all.’
“他试图不自私，但我想他感到相当孤独。梅格，这正是年轻已婚人士容易疏远的时候，也是他们最应该在一起的时候，因为最初的温柔很快就会消失，除非小心翼翼地保存它。对于父母来说，没有什么时间比给予他们训练的小生命的最初几年更美好和珍贵了。不要让约翰对孩子们来说是一个陌生人，因为在这个充满考验和诱惑的世界里，他们会做更多的事情来让他安全和快乐，而不是其他任何事情，通过他们，你会学会按照你应该的方式去了解和爱彼此。现在，亲爱的，再见。想想母亲的说教，如果觉得不错就付诸行动，愿上帝保佑你们大家。”

Meg did think it over, found it good, and acted upon it, though the first attempt was not made exactly as she planned to have it. Of course the children tyrannized over her, and ruled the house as soon as they found out that kicking and squalling brought them whatever they wanted. Mamma was an abject slave to their caprices, but Papa was not so easily subjugated, and occasionally afflicted his tender spouse by an attempt at paternal discipline with his obstreperous son. For Demi inherited a trifle of his sire’s firmness of character, we won’t call it obstinacy, and when he made up his little to have or to do anything, all the king’s horses and all the king’s men could not change that pertinacious little mind. Mamma thought the dear too young to be taught to conquer his prejudices, but Papa believed that it never was too soon to learn obedience. So Master Demi early discovered that when he undertook to ‘wrastle’ with ‘Parpar’, he always got the worst of it, yet like the Englishman, baby respected the man who conquered him, and loved the father whose grave ‘No, no,’ was more impressive than all Mamma’s love pats. A few days after the talk with her mother, Meg resolved to try a social evening with John, so she ordered a nice supper, set the parlor in order, dressed herself prettily, and put the children to bed early, that nothing should interfere with her experiment. But unfortunately Demi’s most unconquerable prejudice was against going to bed, and that night he decided to go on a rampage. So poor Meg sang and rocked, told stories and tried every sleep-prevoking wile she could devise, but all in vain, the big eyes wouldn’t shut, and long after Daisy had gone to byelow, like the chubby little bunch of good nature she was, naughty Demi lay staring at the light, with the most discouragingly wide-awake expression of countenance.
梅格确实仔细考虑过，发现它很好，并采取了行动，尽管第一次尝试并没有完全按照她的计划进行。当然，孩子们对她很专横，当他们发现踢打和吵闹可以为他们带来他们想要的任何东西时，他们就统治了这个房子。妈妈是他们反复无常的卑鄙奴隶，但爸爸却不那么容易屈服，有时，他试图以父亲般的方式管教他顽固的儿子，这让他温柔的妻子感到痛苦。因为黛米继承了他父亲的一点坚定的性格，我们不会称之为固执，当他下定决心要拥有或做任何事情时，国王的所有马匹和所有国王的人都无法改变那个顽固的小心思。 。妈妈认为亲爱的孩子还太小，不适合被教导去克服他的偏见，但爸爸相信，学习服从永远不会太早。所以黛米大师很早就发现，当他与“帕尔帕尔”“搏斗”时，他总是得到最坏的结果，但就像英国人一样，婴儿尊重征服他的人，并爱他的父亲，他的坟墓上写着“不，不， ”比妈妈所有的爱抚更令人印象深刻。与母亲谈话几天后，梅格决定尝试与约翰一起度过一个社交晚会，所以她订了一顿丰盛的晚餐，把客厅收拾得井井有条，把自己打扮得漂漂亮亮的，并让孩子们早点上床睡觉，以免任何事情干扰。她的实验。但不幸的是，黛米最无法克服的偏见是拒绝睡觉，那天晚上他决定横冲直撞。 可怜的梅格唱歌、摇晃、讲故事，尝试了她能想出的每一种令人入睡的诡计，但一切都是徒劳，那双大眼睛就是不肯闭上，黛西已经走了很久，就像那群善良的胖乎乎的小家伙一样。她是，顽皮的黛米躺在那里，盯着灯光，脸上带着最令人沮丧的清醒表情。

‘Will Demi lie still like a good boy, while Mamma runs down and gives poor Papa his tea?’ asked Meg, as the hall door softly closed, and the well-known step went tip-toeing into the dining room.
“当妈妈跑下来给可怜的爸爸倒茶时，黛米会像个好孩子一样安静地躺着吗？”梅格问道，门厅的门轻轻地关上了，人们开始蹑手蹑脚地走进餐厅。

‘Me has tea!’ said Demi, preparing to join in the revel.
“我有茶！”黛米说道，准备加入狂欢。

‘No, but I’ll save you some little cakies for breakfast, if you’ll go bye-by like Daisy. Will you, lovey?’
“不，但如果你能像黛西一样告别的话，我会给你留一些小蛋糕当早餐。”你愿意吗，亲爱的？

‘Iss!’ and Demi shut his eyes tight, as if to catch sleep and hurry the desired day.
“是！”黛米紧紧闭上眼睛，仿佛要睡一觉，尽快迎来想要的一天。

Taking advantage of the propitious moment, Meg slipped away and ran down to greet her husband with a smiling face and the little blue bow in her hair which was his especial admiration. He saw it at once and said with pleased surprise, ‘Why, little mother, how gay we are tonight. Do you expect company?’
趁着这个吉利的时刻，梅格溜了出去，跑下来迎接她的丈夫，脸上带着微笑，头上戴着的蓝色小蝴蝶结是他特别钦佩的。他立刻看到了，惊喜地说道：“哎呀，小妈妈，我们今晚多么快乐啊。”你需要有人陪伴吗？

‘Only you, dear.’
“只有你，亲爱的。”

‘No, I’m tired of being dowdy, so I dressed up as a change. You always make yourself nice for table, no matter how tired you are, so why shouldn’t I when I have the time?’
“不，我厌倦了邋遢，所以我打扮得有些改变。不管你有多累，你总是在餐桌上让自己变得漂亮，那么当我有时间的时候为什么我不应该呢？

‘I do it out of respect for you, my dear,’ said old-fashioned John.
“我这样做是出于对你的尊重，亲爱的，”老派的约翰说。

‘Ditto, ditto, Mr. Brooke,’ laughed Meg, looking young and pretty again, as she nodded to him over the teapot.
“同上，同上，布鲁克先生，”梅格笑着说，她在茶壶上向他点点头，看起来又年轻又漂亮了。

‘Well, it’s altogether delightful, and like old times. This tastes right. I drink your health, dear.’ And John sipped his tea with an air of reposeful rapture, which was of very short duration however, for as he put down his cup, the door handle rattled mysteriously, and a little voice was heard, saying impatiently ...
“嗯，这真是太令人愉快了，就像以前一样。这个味道对了。亲爱的，我为你的健康干杯。”约翰带着一种平静而狂喜的神情喝了一口茶，然而这持续的时间很短，因为当他放下杯子时，门把手神秘地嘎嘎作响，听到一个小小的声音，说不耐烦地...

‘Opy doy. Me’s tummin!’
‘哎呀，哎呀。我很烦！

‘It’s that naughty boy. I told him to go to sleep alone, and here he is, downstairs, getting his death a-cold pattering over that canvas,’ said Meg, answering the call.
‘就是那个调皮的孩子。我让他一个人去睡觉，而他就在楼下，在画布上冷冷地拍打着他的死亡。”梅格接电话说道。

‘Mornin’ now,’ announced Demi in joyful tone as he entered, with his long nightgown gracefully festooned over his arm and every curl bobbing gayly as he pranced about the table, eyeing the ‘cakies’ with loving glances.
“早上好，”黛米进来时用快乐的语气宣布，他的长睡衣优雅地披在手臂上，每根卷发都在桌子上欢快地摆动，用充满爱意的目光看着“蛋糕”。

‘No, it isn’t morning yet. You must go to bed, and not trouble poor Mamma. Then you can have the little cake with sugar on it.’
「不，现在还没到早上呢。」你必须去睡觉，不要打扰可怜的妈妈。然后你就可以吃上面加糖的小蛋糕了。

‘Me loves Parpar,’ said the artful one, preparing to climb the paternal knee and revel in forbidden joys. But John shook his head, and said to Meg...
“我爱帕尔帕尔。”狡猾的家伙说道，准备爬上父亲的膝盖，享受禁忌的欢乐。但约翰摇了摇头，对梅格说……

‘If you told him to stay up there, and go to sleep alone, make him do it, or he will never learn to mind you.’
“如果你让他留在上面，一个人去睡觉，就让他这么做，否则他永远不会学会关心你。”

‘Yes, of course. Come, Demi.’ And Meg led her son away, feeling a strong desire to spank the little marplot who hopped beside her, laboring under the delusion that the bribe was to be administered as soon as they reached the nursery.
'是的当然。来吧，黛米。”梅格领着她的儿子走了，她强烈地想打那个在她身边跳来跳去的小马普洛特，她误以为他们一到托儿所就会受到贿赂。

Nor was he disappointed, for that shortsighted woman actually gave him a lump of sugar, tucked him into his bed, and forbade any more promenades till morning.
他也没有失望，因为那个近视的女人实际上给了他一块糖，把他塞到床上，并禁止他在早上之前再散步。

‘Iss!’ said Demi the perjured, blissfully sucking his sugar, and regarding his first attempt as eminently successful.
“是的！”作伪证的黛米说道，幸福地吮吸着糖，并认为他的第一次尝试非常成功。

Meg returned to her place, and supper was progressing pleasantly, when the little ghost walked again and exposed the maternal delinquencies by boldly demanding, ‘More sudar, Marmar.’
梅格回到了自己的位置，晚餐正在愉快地进行着，这时小鬼魂又走了过来，大胆地要求“再来点苏达尔，马尔马尔”，揭露了母亲的过失。

‘Now this won’t do,’ said John, hardening his heart against the engaging little sinner. ‘We shall never know any peace till that child learns togo to bed properly. You have made a slave of yourself long enough. Give him one lesson, and then there will be an end of it. Put him in his bed and leave him, Meg.’
“现在这样不行了，”约翰说，对这个可爱的小罪人硬起了心肠。 “除非那个孩子学会正确睡觉，否则我们永远不会有任何平安。”你已经让自己成为奴隶已经够久了。给他一个教训，事情就会结束。让他躺在床上，然后离开他，梅格。”

‘He won’t stay there, he never does unless I sit by him.’
“他不会呆在那里，除非我坐在他身边，否则他永远不会呆在那里。”

‘I’ll manage him. Demi, go upstairs, and get into your bed, as Mamma bids you.’
‘我会管理他的。黛米，按照妈妈的吩咐，上楼去床上。”

‘S’ant!’ replied the young rebel, helping himself to the coveted ‘cakie’, and beginning to eat the same with calm audacity.
“S'ant！”年轻的叛逆者回答道，一边吃着令人垂涎的“蛋糕”，一边平静而大胆地开始吃起来。

‘You must never say that to Papa. I shall carry you if you don’t go yourself.’
“你绝对不能对爸爸说这种话。如果你不自己走，我就背你去。

‘Go ‘way, me don’t love Parpar.’ And Demi retired to his mother’s skirts for protection.
“走吧，我不爱帕尔帕尔。”黛米退到他母亲的裙子里寻求保护。

But even that refuge proved unavailing, for he was delivered over to the enemy, with a ‘Be gentle with him, John,’ which struck the culprit with dismay, for when Mamma deserted him, then the judgment day was at hand. Bereft of his cake, defrauded of his frolic, and borne away by a strong hand to that detested bed, poor Demi could not restrain his wrath, but openly defied Papa, and kicked and screamed lustily all the way upstairs. The minute he was put into bed on one side, he rolled out on the other, and made for the door, only to be ignominiously caught up by the tail of his little toga and put back again, which lively performance was kept up till the young man’s strength gave out, when he devoted himself to roaring at the top of his voice. This vocal exercise usually conquered Meg, but John sat as unmoved as the post which is popularly believed to be deaf. No coaxing, no sugar, no lullaby, no story, even the light was put out and only the red glow of the fire enlivened the ‘big dark’ which Demi regarded with curiosity rather than fear. This new order of things disgusted him, and he howled dismally for ‘Marmar’, as his angry passions subsided, and recollections of his tender bondwoman returned to the captive autocrat. The plaintive wail which succeeded the passionate roar went to Meg’s heart, and she ran up to say beseechingly...
但事实证明，即使这样的避难所也无济于事，因为他被交给了敌人，一句“对他温柔点，约翰”，这让罪犯感到沮丧，因为当妈妈抛弃他时，审判日就在眼前。他的蛋糕被剥夺了，他的嬉闹被骗了，被一只强有力的手拖到了那张可恶的床上，可怜的黛米无法抑制他的愤怒，而是公然蔑视爸爸，一路踢着，尖叫着上楼。他一被放到一侧的床上，就从另一侧滚了出去，向门口走去，却被他的小托加长袍的尾巴可耻地抓住了，又被放了回去，这种热闹的表演一直持续到了晚上。当年轻人全力以赴地咆哮时，他的力气已经耗尽。这种发声练习通常会征服梅格，但约翰却一动不动地坐着，就像人们普遍认为是聋子一样。没有哄骗，没有糖，没有摇篮曲，没有故事，连灯都熄灭了，只有火的红光照亮了黛米好奇而不是恐惧的“大黑暗”。这种新的秩序让他感到厌恶，当他愤怒的激情消退时，他凄凉地呼喊着“马尔马尔”，对他温柔的女奴的回忆又回到了被俘的独裁者身上。激昂的吼叫声接续着哀怨的哭声，直达梅格的心头，她跑上前去恳求地说……

‘Let me stay with him, he’ll be good now, John.’
“让我留在他身边，他现在会好起来的，约翰。”

‘No, my dear. I’ve told him he must go to sleep, as you bid him, and he must, if I stay here all night.’
'不是，亲爱的。我已经告诉他，他必须按照你的吩咐去睡觉，如果我整晚都待在这里，他也必须去睡觉。

‘But he’ll cry himself sick,’ pleaded Meg, reproaching herself for deserting her boy.
“但他会哭得恶心。”梅格恳求道，责备自己抛弃了儿子。

‘No, he won’t, he’s so tired he will soon drop off and then the matter is settled, for he will understand that he has got to mind. Don’t interfere, I’ll manage him.’
“不，他不会，他太累了，很快就会倒下，然后事情就解决了，因为他会明白他必须介意。”你别插手，我来对付他。”

‘He’s my child, and I can’t have his spirit broken by harshness.’
“他是我的孩子，我不能让他的精神被严厉打击。”

‘He’s my child, and I won’t have his temper spoiled by indulgence. Go down, my dear, and leave the boy to me.’
“他是我的孩子，我不会让他的脾气因为纵容而坏掉。”下去吧，亲爱的，把孩子留给我。

When John spoke in that masterful tone, Meg always obeyed, and never regretted her docility.
当约翰用那种专横的语气说话时，梅格总是服从，并且从不后悔她的顺从。

‘Please let me kiss him once, John?’
“约翰，请让我吻他一次好吗？”

‘Certainly. Demi, say good night to Mamma, and let her go and rest, for she is very tired with taking care of you all day.’
'当然。黛米，跟妈妈道晚安，让她去休息吧，因为她照顾你一整天已经很累了。”

Meg always insisted upon it that the kiss won the victory, for after it was given, Demi sobbed more quietly, and lay quite still at the bottom of the bed, whither he had wriggled in his anguish of mind.
梅格总是坚持认为这个吻赢得了胜利，因为在亲吻之后，黛米抽泣得更小声了，一动不动地躺在床底，他在痛苦的心灵中蠕动着。

‘Poor little man, he’s worn out with sleep and crying. I’ll cover him up, and then go and set Meg’s heart at rest.’ thought John, creeping to the bedside, hoping to find his rebellious heir asleep.
“可怜的小男人，他因睡眠和哭泣而疲惫不堪。我会帮他盖好被子，然后去让梅格的心平静下来。”约翰一边想，一边爬到床边，希望能看到他那叛逆的继承人睡着了。

But he wasn’t, for the moment his father peeped at him, Demi’s eyes opened, his little chin began to quiver, and he put up his arms, saying with a penitent hiccough, ‘Me’s dood, now.’
但他不是，就在他父亲偷看他的那一刻，黛米的眼睛睁开了，他的小下巴开始颤抖，他举起双臂，悔恨地打嗝说：“现在我完蛋了。”

Sitting on the stairs outside Meg wondered at the long silence which followed the uproar, and after imagining all sorts of impossible accidents, she slipped into the room to set her fears at rest. Demi lay fast asleep, not in his usual spreadeagle attitude, but in a subdued bunch, cuddled close in the circle of his father’s arm and holding his father’s finger, as if he felt that justice was tempered with mercy, and had gone to sleep a sadder and wiser baby. So held, John had waited with a womanly patience till the little hand relaxed its hold, and while waiting had fallen asleep, more tired by that tussle with his son than with his whole day’s work.
梅格坐在外面的楼梯上，对喧闹之后的长时间沉默感到惊讶，在想象了各种不可能的事故后，她溜进房间，平息了自己的恐惧。黛米睡得很熟，不像平常那​​样张开双臂，而是蜷缩成一团，紧紧地依偎在父亲的手臂上，握着父亲的手指，仿佛他觉得正义被仁慈所调和，然后就睡着了。更悲伤、更聪明的宝宝。就这样，约翰以女人般的耐心等待着，直到那只小手松开了手，然后在等待的过程中睡着了，与儿子的争吵比他一整天的工作更累。

As Meg stood watching the two faces on the pillow, she smiled to herself, and then slipped away again, saying in a satisfied tone, ‘I never need fear that John will be too harsh with my babies. He does know how to manage them, and will be a great help, for Demi is getting too much for me.’
梅格站在那里看着枕头上的两张脸，她对自己笑了笑，然后又溜走了，用满意的语气说道：“我从来不需要担心约翰会对我的孩子们太严厉。”他确实知道如何管理它们，并且会提供很大的帮助，因为黛米对我来说太多了。

When John came down at last, expecting to find a pensive or reproachful wife, he was agreeably surprised to find Meg placidly trimming a bonnet, and to be greeted with the request to read something about the election, if he was not too tired. John saw in a minute that a revolution of some kind was going on, but wisely asked no questions, knowing that Meg was such a transparent little person, she couldn’t keep a secret to save her life, and therefore the clue would soon appear. He read a long debate with the most amiable readiness and then explained it in his most lucid manner, while Meg tried to look deeply interested, to ask intelligent questions, and keep her thoughts from wandering from the state of the nation to the state of her bonnet. In her secret soul, however, she decided that politics were as bad as mathematics, and the the mission of politicians seemed to be calling each other names, but she kept these feminine ideas to herself, and when John paused, shook her head and said with what she thought diplomatic ambiguity, ‘Well, I really don’t see what we are coming to.’
当约翰最后下来时，以为会找到一位忧郁或责备的妻子，他惊讶地发现梅格正在平静地修剪一顶帽子，并要求他阅读一些有关选举的内容，如果他不太累的话。约翰立刻就看到了某种革命正在发生，但他明智地没有提出任何问题，因为他知道梅格是一个如此透明的小人物，她无法保守秘密来挽救自己的生命，因此线索很快就会出现。他以最和蔼可亲的态度读了一篇长篇辩论，然后以最清晰的方式进行了解释，而梅格则试图表现出浓厚的兴趣，提出明智的问题，并避免她的思绪从国家的状态转移到她的状态。引擎盖。然而，在她秘密的灵魂里，她认为政治和数学一样糟糕，政治家的使命似乎是互相辱骂，但她把这些女性化的想法留给了自己，当约翰停顿时，她摇摇头说：她认为外交含糊不清，“好吧，我真的不明白我们会面临什么。”

John laughed, and watched her for a minute, as she poised a pretty little preparation of lace and flowers on her hand, and regarded it with the genuine interest which his harangue had failed to waken.
约翰笑了，看了她一会儿，她把一小块蕾丝和鲜花放在手上，并以他的长篇大论未能唤醒的真正兴趣注视着它。

‘She is trying to like politics for my sake, so I’ll try and like millinery for hers, that’s only fair,’ thought John the Just, adding aloud, ‘That’s very pretty. Is it what you call a breakfast cap?’
“她试图为了我而喜欢政治，所以我会尝试为她喜欢女帽，这很公平，”公正的约翰想，大声补充道，“那非常漂亮。”这就是你们所说的早餐帽吗？

‘My dear man, it’s a bonnet! My very best go-to-concert-and-theater bonnet.’
“我亲爱的朋友，这是一顶帽子！我最好的去音乐会和剧院的帽子。

‘I beg your pardon, it was so small, I naturally mistook it for one of the flyaway things you sometimes wear. How do you keep it on?’
“请原谅，它太小了，我很自然地将它误认为是你有时穿的一件飘逸的衣服。你如何保持它？

‘These bits of lace are fastened under the chin with a rosebud, so.’ And Meg illustrated by putting on the bonnet and regarding him with an air of calm satisfaction that was irresistible.
“这些花边是用玫瑰花蕾固定在下巴下面的，所以。”梅格戴上帽子，用一种令人无法抗拒的平静满足的神情看着他。

‘It’s a love of a bonnet, but I prefer the face inside, for it looks young and happy again.’ And John kissed the smiling face, to the great detriment of the rosebud under the chin.
“这是对帽子的喜爱，但我更喜欢里面的脸，因为它看起来又年轻又快乐。”约翰吻了吻那张笑脸，这极大地损害了下巴下的玫瑰花蕾。

‘I’m glad you like it, for I want you to take me to one of the new concerts some night. I really need some music to put me in tune. Will you, please?’
“我很高兴你喜欢它，因为我希望你有一天晚上带我去听一场新的音乐会。我真的需要一些音乐来调整自己的节奏。请你？'

‘Of course I will, with all my heart, or anywhere else you like. You have been shut up so long, it will do you no end of good, and I shall enjoy it, of all things. What put it into your head, little mother?’
“我当然愿意，全心全意，或者你喜欢的任何其他地方。你被关了这么久，这对你有无穷的好处，我会很享受它的。是什么让你想到了这个，小妈妈？

‘Well, I had a talk with Marmee the other day, and told her how nervous and cross and out of sorts I felt, and she said I needed change and less care, so Hannah is to help me with the children, and I’m to see to things about the house more, and now and then have a little fun, just to keep me from getting to be a fidgety, broken-down old woman before my time. It’s only an experiment, John, and I want to try it for your sake as much as for mine, because I’ve neglected you shamefully lately, and I’m going to make home what it used to be, if I can. You don’t object, I hope?’
“嗯，前几天我和妈妈谈过一次，告诉她我感到多么紧张、生气和不舒服，她说我需要改变和更少的照顾，所以汉娜要帮助我照顾孩子，而我”我要更多地关心房子的事情，时不时地享受一点乐趣，只是为了防止我在临终前变成一个烦躁、崩溃的老太婆。这只是一个实验，约翰，我想尝试一下，既是为了你，也是为了我自己，因为我最近可耻地忽视了你，如果可以的话，我会让家恢复到以前的样子。我希望你不会反对吧？

Never mind what John said, or what a very narrow escape the little bonnet had from utter ruin. All that we have any business to know is that John did not appear to object, judging from the changes which gradually took place in the house and its inmates. It was not all Paradise by any means, but everyone was better for the division of labor system. The children throve under the paternal rule, for accurate, stedfast John brought order and obedience into Babydom, while Meg recovered her spirits and composed her nerves by plenty of wholesome exercise, a little pleasure, and much confidential conversation with her sensible husband. Home grew homelike again, and John had no wish to leave it, unless he took Meg with him. The Scotts came to the Brookes’ now, and everyone found the little house a cheerful place, full of happiness, content, and family love. Even Sallie Moffatt liked to go there. ‘It is always so quiet and pleasant here, it does me good, Meg,’ she used to say, looking about her with wistful eyes, as if trying to discover the charm, that she might use it in her great house, full of splendid lonliness, for there were no riotous, sunny-faced babies there, and Ned lived in a world of lis own, where there was no place for her.
别介意约翰说了什么，也别介意这顶小帽子是多么九死一生才免于彻底毁灭。我们所知道的是，从房子和里面的人逐渐发生的变化来看，约翰似乎并没有反对。无论如何，这并不完全是天堂，但由于分工制度，每个人都变得更好。孩子们在父亲的统治下茁壮成长，因为准确而坚定的约翰给巴比王国带来了秩序和服从，而梅格则通过大量有益健康的锻炼、一点点快乐以及与她明智的丈夫的秘密交谈，恢复了精神并稳定了神经。家又变得像家了，约翰不想离开它，除非他带着梅格一起走。斯科特一家现在来到了布鲁克斯家，每个人都发现这座小房子是一个令人愉快的地方，充满了幸福、满足和家庭之爱。甚至萨莉·莫法特也喜欢去那里。 “这里总是那么安静、令人愉快，这对我有好处，梅格，”她常常这样说，用渴望的眼睛环顾四周，仿佛试图发现它的魅力，以便她可以在她那座充满了色彩的大房子里使用它。这是一种美妙的孤独，因为那里没有喧闹、阳光明媚的婴儿，而奈德生活在她自己的世界里，那里没有她的容身之地。

This household happiness did not come all at once, but John and Meg had found the key to it, and each year of Married life taught them how to use it, unlocking the treasuries of real home love and mutual helpfulness, which the poorest may possess, and the richest cannot buy. This is the sort of shelf on which young wives and mothers may consent to be laid, safe from the restless fret and fever of the world, finding loyal lovers in the little sons and daughters who cling to them, undaunted by sorrow, poverty, or age, walking side by side, through fair and stormy weather, with a faithful friend, who is, in the true sense of the good old Saxon word, the ‘house-band’, and learning, as Meg learned, that a woman’s happiest kingdom is home, her highest honor the art of ruling it not as a queen, but as a wise wife and mother.
这种家庭幸福并不是一下子就到来的，但约翰和梅格找到了它的钥匙，婚姻生活的每一年都教会他们如何使用它，打开最贫穷的人可能拥有的真正的家庭之爱和相互帮助的宝库，最有钱的人买不到。年轻的妻子和母亲可能会同意躺在这样的架子上，远离尘世的烦躁和狂热，在依附于他们的小儿子和女儿身上找到忠实的情人，不畏悲伤、贫困或恐惧。年龄，与一个忠实的朋友并肩行走，穿过晴朗和暴风雨的天气，他是撒克逊古老的好词的真正含义，“家庭乐队”，并学习，正如梅格所了解到的，一个女人最幸福的事情王国是家，她的最高荣誉不是作为女王，而是作为明智的妻子和母亲来统治国家。

CHAPTER THIRTY-NINE
第三十九章

Laurie went to Nice intending to stay a week, and remained a month. He was tired of wandering about alone, and Amy’s familiar presence seemed to give a homelike charm to the foreign scenes in which she bore a part. He rather missed the ‘petting’ he used to receive, and enjoyed a taste of it again, for no attentions, however flattering, from strangers, were half so pleasant as the sisterly adoration of the girls at home. Amy never would pet him like the others, but she was very glad to see him now, and quite clung to him, feeling that he was the representative of the dear family for whom she longed more than she would confess. They naturally took comfort in each other’s society and were much together, riding, walking, dancing, or dawdling, for at Nice no one can be very industrious during the gay season. But, while apparently amusing themselves in the most careless fashion, they were half-consciously making discoveries and forming opinions about each other. Amy rose daily in the estimation of her friend, but he sank in hers, and each felt the truth before a word was spoken. Amy tried to please, and succeeded, for she was grateful for the many pleasures he gave her, and repaid him with the little services to which womanly women know how to lend an indescribable charm. Laurie made no effort of any kind, but just let himself drift along as comfortably as possible, trying to forget, and feeling that all women owed him a kind word because one had been cold to him. It cost him no effort to be generous, and he would have given Amy all the trinkets in Nice if she would have taken them, but at the same time he felt that he could not change the opinion she was forming of him, and he rather dreaded the keen blue eyes that seemed to watch him with such half-sorrowful, half-scornful surprise.
劳里去尼斯本来打算待一周，结果待了一个月。他厌倦了独自徘徊，而艾米熟悉的存在似乎给她所扮演的异国场景增添了一种温馨的魅力。他相当怀念以前受到的“宠爱”，现在又很享受这种滋味，因为陌生人的关注，无论多么谄媚，都不如家里女孩们姐妹般的崇拜更令人愉快。艾米从来不会像其他人那样宠爱他，但她现在很高兴见到他，并且非常粘着他，觉得他是这个亲爱的家庭的代表，她对这个家庭的渴望比她承认的还要多。他们很自然地在彼此的社交中感到安慰，经常在一起，骑马、散步、跳舞或闲逛，因为在尼斯，在同性恋季节没有人能非常勤奋。但是，虽然表面上他们以最粗心的方式自娱自乐，但他们却在半自觉地发现彼此并形成对彼此的看法。艾米对她朋友的评价日益上升，但他对她的评价却下降了，每个人在开口说话之前都感受到了真相。艾米试图取悦他，并且成功了，因为她很感激他给她带来的许多快乐，并用女人知道如何赋予她难以形容的魅力的小服务来回报他。劳里没有做出任何努力，只是让自己尽可能舒服地漂流，试图忘记，并感觉所有女人都欠他一句善意的话，因为有人对他很冷淡。 他不费吹灰之力就表现得慷慨，如果艾米愿意的话，他会把尼斯的所有小饰品都给她，但同时他觉得自己无法改变她对他的看法，他宁愿他害怕那双锐利的蓝眼睛，它们似乎带着半悲伤、半轻蔑的惊讶看着他。

‘All the rest have gone to Monaco for the day. I preferred to stay at home and write letters. They are done now, and I am going to Valrosa to sketch, will you come?’ said Amy, as she joined Laurie one lovely day when he lounged in as usual about noon.
“剩下的人今天都去了摩纳哥。我更喜欢呆在家里写信。现在它们已经完成了，我要去瓦罗萨画素描，你会来吗？”艾米在一个美好的一天和劳里一起说道，当时劳里正像往常一样在中午闲逛。

‘Well, yes, but isn’t it rather warm for such a long walk?’ he answered slowly, for the shaded salon looked inviting after the glare without.
“嗯，是的，但是走这么长的路不是很热吗？”他慢慢地回答，因为在外面的刺眼的阳光照射下，阴凉的沙龙看起来很诱人。

‘I’m going to have the little carriage, and Baptiste can drive, so you’ll have nothing to do but hold your umbrella, and keep your gloves nice,’ returned Amy, with a sarcastic glance at the immaculate kids, which were a weak point with Laurie.
“我要开一辆小马车，巴蒂斯特会开车，所以你们除了撑伞、戴好手套之外什么都不用做。”艾米讽刺地看了一眼那些完美无瑕的孩子们，说道。劳里的一个弱点。

‘Then I’ll go with pleasure.’ And he put out his hand for her sketchbook. But she tucked it under her arm with a sharp...
“那我很乐意去。”他伸出手去拿她的素描本。但她用一把锋利的刀把它夹在腋下……

‘Don’t trouble yourself. It’s no exertion to me, but you don’t look equal to it.’
‘别为难自己了。对我来说这并不费力，但你看起来还不够。

Laurie lifted his eyebrows and followed at a leisurely pace as she ran downstairs, but when they got into the carriage he took the reins himself, and left little Baptiste nothing to do but fold his arms and fall asleep on his perch.
劳里扬起眉毛，悠闲地跟着她跑下楼，但当他们上了马车时，他亲自掌控了缰绳，留下小巴蒂斯特什么也不做，只是抱着双臂，在高处睡着了。

The two never quarreled. Amy was too well-bred, and just now Laurie was too lazy, so in a minute he peeped under her hatbrim with an inquiring air. She answered him with a smile, and they went on together in the most amicable manner.
两人从不吵架。艾米太有教养了，刚才劳里太懒了，所以一会儿他就带着询问的神情从她的帽檐下往外看。她微笑着回答他，然后他们就以最友好的方式一起走下去。

It was a lovely drive, along winding roads rich in the picturesque scenes that delight beauty-loving eyes. Here an ancient monastery, whence the solemn chanting of the monks came down to them. There a bare-legged shepherd, in wooden shoes, pointed hat, and rough jacket over one shoulder, sat piping on a stone while his goats skipped among the rocks or lay at his feet. Meek, mouse-colored donkeys, laden with panniers of freshly cut grass passed by, with a pretty girl in a capaline sitting between the green piles, or an old woman spinning with a distaff as she went. Brown, soft-eyed children ran out from the quaint stone hovels to offer nosegays, or bunches of oranges still on the bough. Gnarled olive trees covered the hills with their dusky foliage, fruit hung golden in the orchard, and great scarlet anemones fringed the roadside, while beyond green slopes and craggy heights, the Maritime Alps rose sharp and white against the blue Italian sky.
这是一次愉快的驾车旅行，沿着蜿蜒的道路行驶，风景如画，让爱美的人大饱眼福。这里有一座古老的修道院，僧侣们庄严的诵经声从那里传来。那里有一个光着腿的牧羊人，穿着木鞋，戴着尖顶帽子，肩膀上穿着粗糙的夹克，坐在一块石头上吹着笛子，而他的山羊则在岩石间跳跃或躺在他的脚边。温顺的、老鼠色的驴子驮着刚割下的草驮经过，绿色的草堆中间坐着一个穿着斗篷的漂亮女孩，或者一个老妇人边走边纺纱。眼睛柔和的棕色孩子们从古色古香的石屋里跑出来，献上花束，或者说还在树枝上的一串橙子。粗糙的橄榄树用暗淡的叶子覆盖了山丘，果园里挂着金色的果实，路边点缀着巨大的猩红色海葵，而在绿色的山坡和崎岖的高地之外，海上阿尔卑斯山在意大利蓝色的天空的映衬下尖锐而白色。

Valrosa well deserved its name, for in that climate of perpetual summer roses blossomed everywhere. They overhung the archway, thrust themselves between the bars of the great gate with a sweet welcome to passers-by, and lined the avenue, winding through lemon trees and feathery palms up to the villa on the hill. Every shadowy nook, where seats invited one to stop and rest, was a mass of bloom, every cool grotto had its marble nymph smiling from a veil of flowers and every fountain reflected crimson, white, or pale pink roses, leaning down to smile at their own beauty. Roses covered the walls of the house, draped the cornices, climbed the pillars, and ran riot over the balustrade of the wide terrace, whence one looked down on the sunny Mediterranean, and the white-walled city on its shore.
瓦罗萨（Valrosa）名副其实，因为在永久夏季的气候下，玫瑰到处盛开。他们悬挂在拱门上方，插入大门的铁栅之间，向路人发出甜蜜的欢迎，并沿着大道排列，蜿蜒穿过柠檬树和羽毛状的棕榈树，一直到达山上的别墅。每一个阴暗的角落，座位上都开满了鲜花，每一个凉爽的洞穴里都有大理石仙女在鲜花的面纱中微笑，每一个喷泉都反射着深红色、白色或淡粉色的玫瑰，俯下身子微笑着她们自己的美丽。玫瑰覆盖了房子的墙壁，挂满了飞檐，攀上了柱子，在宽阔露台的栏杆上肆意地绽放，从那里可以俯瞰阳光明媚的地中海和海岸上的白墙城市。

‘This is a regular honeymoon paradise, isn’t it? Did you ever see such roses?’ asked Amy, pausing on the terrace to enjoy the view, and a luxurious whiff of perfume that came wandering by.
“这就是一个普通的蜜月天堂，不是吗？”你见过这样的玫瑰吗？”艾米问道，她在露台上停下来欣赏风景，还有一股奢华的香水味飘来。

‘No, nor felt such thorns,’ returned Laurie, with his thumb in his mouth, after a vain attempt to capture a solitary scarlet flower that grew just beyond his reach.
“不，也没有感觉到这样的刺。”劳里嘴里含着拇指，试图抓住一朵孤零零的猩红色花朵，但徒劳无功。

‘Try lower down, and pick those that have no thorns,’ said Amy, gathering three of the tiny cream-colored ones that starred the wall behind her. She put them in his buttonhole as a peace offering, and he stood a minute looking down at them with a curious expression, for in the Italian part of his nature there was a touch of superstition, and he was just then in that state of half-sweet, half-bitter melancholy, when imaginative young men find significance in trifles and food for romance everywhere. He had thought of Jo in reaching after the thorny red rose, for vivid flowers became her, and she had often worn ones like that from the greenhouse at home. The pale roses Amy gave him were the sort that the Italians lay in dead hands, never in bridal wreaths, and for a moment he wondered if the omen was for Jo or for himself, but the next instant his American common sense got the better of sentimentality, and he laughed a heartier laugh than Amy had heard since he came.
“试着往下一点，挑那些没有刺的，”艾米一边说，一边收集了她身后墙上的三颗奶油色的小刺。她把它们放在他的纽扣孔里作为和平祭品，他站了一会儿，低头看着它们，表情好奇，因为在他的意大利性格中，有一丝迷信，而他当时正处于半昏半醒的状态。 -当富有想象力的年轻人在琐事中发现意义并到处寻找浪漫的食物时，甜蜜，半苦的忧郁。他想到了乔伸手去抓那朵带刺的红玫瑰，因为鲜艳的花朵很适合她，而且她经常戴家里温室里的那种花。艾米送给他的淡玫瑰是意大利人放在死人手里的那种，从来没有放在新娘花环上，有那么一会儿，他想知道这个预兆是给乔的还是给他自己的，但下一刻他的美国常识就占了上风。多愁善感，他笑得比艾米来后听过的更爽朗。

‘It’s good advice, you’d better take it and save your fingers,’ she said, thinking her speech amused him.
“这是个好建议，你最好接受它，保住你的手指，”她说，觉得她的演讲逗乐了他。

‘Thank you, I will,’ he answered in jest, and a few months later he did it in earnest.
“谢谢你，我会的。”他开玩笑地回答，几个月后，他认真地回答了。

‘Laurie, when are you going to your grandfather?’ she asked presently, as she settled herself on a rustic seat.
“劳里，你什么时候去你祖父那里？”她在一张乡村风格的椅子上坐下来问道。

‘Very soon.’
'很快。'

‘You have said that a dozen times within the last three weeks.’
“过去三周内你已经说过十几次了。”

‘I dare say, short answers save trouble.’
“我敢说，简短的回答可以省去麻烦。”

‘He expects you, and you really ought to go.’
“他在等你，你真的应该去。”

‘Hospitable creature! I know it.’
‘好客的生物！我知道这。'

‘Then why don’t you do it?’
“那你为什么不这么做呢？”

‘Natural depravity, I suppose.’
“我想，这是天生的堕落。”

‘Natural indolence, you mean. It’s really dreadful!’ And Amy looked severe.
“你的意思是，自然的懒惰。真是太可怕了！”艾米表情严肃。

‘Not so bad as it seems, for I should only plague him if I went, so I might as well stay and plague you a little longer, you can bear it better, in fact I think it agrees with you excellently.’ And Laurie composed himself for a lounge on the broad ledge of the balustrade.
“看起来还不错，因为如果我去的话我只会困扰他，所以我还不如留下来再困扰你一会儿，你可以更好地忍受，事实上我认为这非常适合你。”劳里他在栏杆宽阔的窗台上休息了一会儿。

Amy shook her head and opened her sketchbook with an air of resignation, but she had made up her mind to lecture ‘that boy’ and in a minute she began again.
艾米摇摇头，一脸无奈地打开素描本，但她已经下定决心要教训一下‘那个男孩’了，一会儿又开始了。

‘What are you doing just now?’
“你刚才在做什么？”

‘Watching lizards.’
“观察蜥蜴。”

‘No, no. I mean what do you intend and wish to do?’
'不，不。我的意思是你打算做什么？

‘Smoke a cigarette, if you’ll allow me.’
“如果你允许的话，抽支烟吧。”

‘How provoking you are! I don’t approve of cigars and I will only allow it on condition that you let me put you into my sketch. I need a figure.’
‘你真是太挑衅了！我不赞成抽雪茄，只有在你让我把你放进我的素描中的情况下我才会允许。我需要一个数字。

‘With all the pleasure in life. How will you have me, full length or three-quarters, on my head or my heels? I should respectfully suggest a recumbent posture, then put yourself in also and call it ‘Dolce far niente’.’
‘带着生活中所有的乐趣。你将如何让我，全长或四分之三，在我的头上或我的脚后跟？我应该恭敬地建议你采取卧姿，然后也把自己摆进去，称之为“Dolce far niente”。

‘Stay as you are, and go to sleep if you like. I intend to work hard,’ said Amy in her most energetic tone.
‘保持现状，如果你愿意的话就去睡觉吧。我打算努力工作。”艾米用她最有活力的语气说道。

‘What delightful enthusiasm!’ And he leaned against a tall urn with an ir of entire satisfaction.
“多么令人愉快的热情啊！”他靠在一个高高的瓮上，脸上洋溢着满足的神情。

‘What would Jo say if she saw you now?’ asked Amy impatiently, hoping to stir him up by the mention of her still more energetic sister’s name.
“如果乔现在看到你，她会说什么？”艾米不耐烦地问道，希望通过提到她更加精力充沛的妹妹的名字来激起他的兴趣。

‘As usual, ‘Go away, Teddy. I’m busy!’’ He laughed as he spoke, but the laugh was not natural, and a shade passed over his face, for the utterance of the familiar name touched the wound that was not healed yet. Both tone and shadow struck Amy, for she had seen and heard them before, and now she looked up in time to catch a new expression on Laurie’s face—a hard bitter look, full of pain, dissatisfaction, and regret. It was gone before she could study it and the listless expression back again. She watched him for a moment with artistic pleasure, thinking how like an Italian he looked, as he lay basking in the sun with uncovered head and eyes full of southern dreaminess, for he seemed to have forgotten her and fallen into a reverie.
“像往常一样，‘走开，泰迪。我很忙！”他边说边笑，但笑起来并不自然，脸上掠过一丝阴霾，因为熟悉的名字触动了尚未愈合的伤口。声音和影子都让艾米震惊，因为她以前见过、听过它们，现在她抬起头，及时发现了劳里脸上的新表情——一种严厉、痛苦的表情，充满了痛苦、不满和遗憾。她还没来得及研究它，它就消失了，无精打采的表情又回来了。她带着艺术的愉悦看了他一会儿，觉得他看起来多么像一个意大利人，躺在阳光下，裸着头，眼睛里充满了南方的梦幻，因为他似乎已经忘记了她，陷入了沉思。

‘You look like the effigy of a young knight asleep on his tomb,’ she said, carefully tracing the well-cut profile defined against the dark stone.
“你看起来就像一位睡在坟墓上的年轻骑士的雕像，”她一边说，一边仔细地描绘着黑色石头上轮廓分明的轮廓。

‘Wish I was!’
“但愿我是！”

‘That’s a foolish wish, unless you have spoiled your life. You are so changed, I sometimes think—‘ There Amy stopped, with a half-timid, half-wistful look, more significant than her unfinished speech.
‘这是一个愚蠢的愿望，除非你毁了你的生活。你变了很多，我有时想——’艾米停了下来，她的表情一半是胆怯，一半是渴望，比她未完成的演讲更重要。

Laurie saw and understood the affectionate anxiety which she hesitated to express, and looking straight into her eyes, said, just as he used to say it to her mother, ‘It’s all right, ma’am.’
劳里看到并理解了她犹豫要表达的深情焦虑，他直视着她的眼睛，就像他过去对她母亲说的那样，说道：“没关系，女士。”

That satisfied her and set at rest the doubts that had begun to worry her lately. It also touched her, and she showed that it did, by the cordial tone in which she said...
这让她很满意，也消除了最近开始让她担心的疑虑。这也触动了她，她用亲切的语气说……

‘I’m glad of that! I didn’t think you’d been a very bad boy, but I fancied you might have wasted money at that wicked Baden-Baden, lost your heart to some charming Frenchwoman with a husband, or got into some of the scrapes that young men seem to consider a necessary part of a foreign tour. Don’t stay out there in the sun, come and lie on the grass here and ‘let us be friendly’, as Jo used to say when we got in the sofa corner and told secrets.’
‘我对此很高兴！我不认为你是一个很坏的孩子，但我想你可能在那个邪恶的巴登巴登浪费了钱，对某个有丈夫的迷人法国女人失去了心，或者陷入了年轻人所面临的一些困境。似乎被认为是出国旅游的必要组成部分。不要呆在阳光下，来躺在这里的草地上，‘让我们友好一点’，就像乔在我们坐在沙发角告诉秘密时常说的那样。”

Laurie obediently threw himself down on the turf, and began to amuse himself by sticking daisies into the ribbons of Amy’s hat, that lay there.
劳里顺从地躺在草地上，开始把雏菊插到艾米帽子的丝带上取乐。

‘I’m all ready for the secrets.’ And he glanced up with a decided expression of interest in his eyes.
“我已经准备好接受秘密了。”他抬起头，眼中流露出明显的兴趣。

‘I’ve none to tell. You may begin.’
“我没什么可说的。”你可以开始了。

‘Haven’t one to bless myself with. I thought perhaps you’d had some news from home..’
‘没有人可以祝福我自己。我想也许你从家里得到了一些消息……”

‘You have heard all that has come lately. Don’t you hear often? I fancied Jo would send you volumes.’
‘你已经听到了最近发生的一切。你不是经常听到吗？我以为乔会寄给你很多卷。

‘She’s very busy. I’m roving about so, it’s impossible to be regular, you know. When do you begin your great work of art, Raphaella?’ he asked. changing the subject abruptly after another pause, in which he had been wondering if Amy knew his secret and wanted to talk about it.
‘她很忙。我到处流浪，不可能保持正常，你知道。 “拉斐拉，你什么时候开始创作你伟大的艺术作品？”他问道。又停顿了一下，他突然改变了话题，他一直在想艾米是否知道他的秘密并想谈谈它。

‘Never,’ she answered, with a despondent but decided air. ‘Rome took all the vanity out of me, for after seeing the wonders there, I felt too insignificant to live and gave up all my foolish hopes in despair.’
“从来没有。”她回答道，神情沮丧但又坚定。 “罗马夺走了我所有的虚荣心，因为在看到那里的奇迹之后，我感到自己太渺小，无法生存，并在绝望中放弃了所有愚蠢的希望。”

‘Why should you, with so much energy and talent?’
“你有这么多的精力和才华，为什么要这么做呢？”

‘That’s just why, because talent isn’t genius, and no amount of energy can make it so. I want to be great, or nothing. I won’t be a common-place dauber, so I don’t intend to try any more.’
‘这就是原因，因为天赋并不是天才，再多的精力也无法使它成为天才。我想要变得伟大，或者什么都不是。我不会做一个普通的涂抹者，所以我不打算再尝试了。

‘And what are you going to do with yourself now, if I may ask?’
“请问，你现在打算怎么办？”

‘Polish up my other talents, and be an ornament to society, if I get the chance.’
“如果有机会的话，磨练我的其他才能，成为社会的装饰品。”

It was a characteristic speech, and sounded daring, but audacity becomes young people, and Amy’s ambition had a good foundation. Laurie smiled, but he liked the spirit with which she took up a new purpose when a long-cherished one died, and spent no time lamenting.
这是一次很有特色的演讲，听起来很大胆，但大胆是年轻人的特点，艾米的野心有很好的基础。劳里微笑着，但他喜欢她在心爱的人去世后找到新目标的精神，并且没有花时间哀悼。

‘Good! And here is where Fred Vaughn comes in, I fancy.’
'好的！我想这就是弗雷德·沃恩发挥作用的地方。

Amy preserved a discreet silence, but there was a conscious look in her downcast face that made Laurie sit up and say gravely, ‘Now I’m going to play brother, and ask questions. May I?’
艾米保持着谨慎的沉默，但她低下的脸上有一种自觉的表情，这让劳里坐了起来，严肃地说：“现在我要扮演兄弟，问问题。”我可以？'

‘I don’t promise to answer.’
“我不保证回答。”

‘Your face will, if your tongue won’t. You aren’t woman of the world enough yet to hide your feelings, my dear. I heard rumors about Fred and you last year, and it’s my private opinion that if he had not been called home so suddenly and detained so long, something would have come of it, hey?’
“如果你的舌头不会，你的脸会。”亲爱的，你还不够成熟，还不足以隐藏你的感情。去年我听到了关于弗雷德和你的谣言，我个人认为，如果他没有这么突然被叫回家并被拘留这么长时间，事情会发生的，嘿？

‘That’s not for me to say,’ was Amy’s grim reply, but her lips would smile, and there was a traitorous sparkle of the eye which betrayed that she knew her power and enjoyed the knowledge.
“这不是我该说的，”艾米冷酷地回答，但她的嘴唇会微笑，眼睛里闪烁着背叛的光芒，暴露出她知道自己的力量并享受这些知识。

‘You are not engaged, I hope?’ And Laurie looked very elder-brotherly and grave all of a sudden.
“我希望你没有订婚吧？”劳里突然显得非常有哥哥气，而且很严肃。

‘No.’
'不。'

‘But you will be, if he comes back and goes properly down on his knees, won’t you?’
“但如果他回来并正确地跪下来，你就会的，不是吗？”

‘Very likely.’
'很可能。'

‘Then you are fond of old Fred?’
“那你喜欢老弗雷德吗？”

‘I could be, if I tried.’
“如果我努力的话，我可以的。”

‘But you don’t intend to try till the proper moment? Bless my soul, what unearthly prudence! He’s a good fellow, Amy, but not the man I fancied you’d like.’
“但是你不打算在适当的时候尝试吗？保佑我的灵魂，多么超凡的谨慎啊！他是个好人，艾米，但不是我想象中你会喜欢的人。”

‘He is rich, a gentleman, and has delightful manners,’ began Amy, trying to be quite cool and dignified, but feeling a little ashamed of herself, in spite of the sincerity of her intentions.
“他很有钱，是位绅士，举止令人愉快，”艾米开始说，她努力表现得冷静而有尊严，但尽管她的意图是真诚的，但她还是感到有点羞愧。

‘I understand. Queens of society can’t get on without money, so you mean to make a good match, and start in that way? Quite right and proper, as the world goes, but it sounds odd from the lips of one of your mother’s girls.’
'我明白。社会上的女王没有钱就过不下去，所以你就想撮合好，就这样开始吗？就世界而言，这是非常正确和恰当的，但从你母亲的一个女儿嘴里说出来，听起来很奇怪。”

‘True, nevertheless.’
“不过，确实如此。”

A short speech, but the quiet decision with which it was uttered contrasted curiously with the young speaker. Laurie felt this instinctively and laid himself down again, with a sense of disappointment which he could not explain. His look and silence, as well as a certain inward self-disapproval, ruffled Amy, and made her resolve to deliver her lecture without delay.
演讲很短，但其平静的决定与这位年轻的演讲者形成了奇怪的对比。劳里本能地感觉到了这一点，然后又躺了下来，带着一种他无法解释的失望感。他的表情和沉默，以及内心的某种自我否定，让艾米很恼火，并让她决心立即发表演讲。

‘I wish you’d do me the favor to rouse yourself a little,’ she said sharply.
“我希望你能帮我让自己清醒一点，”她尖锐地说。

‘Do it for me, there’s a dear girl.’
“为我做吧，有一个亲爱的女孩。”

‘I could, if I tried.’ And she looked as if she would like doing it in the most summary style.
“如果我尝试的话，我可以。”她看起来好像很想以最概括的方式来做这件事。

‘Try, then. I give you leave,’ returned Laurie, who enjoyed having someone to tease, after his long abstinence from his favorite pastime.
‘那就试试吧。我允许你离开了，”劳里回答道，在长期戒除自己最喜欢的消遣之后，他很喜欢有人来取笑。

‘You’d be angry in five minutes.’
“五分钟后你就会生气。”

‘I’m never angry with you. It takes two flints to make a fire. You are as cool and soft as snow.’
‘我从来不生你的气。生火需要两块打火石。你像雪一样凉爽、柔软。”

‘You don’t know what I can do. Snow produces a glow and a tingle, if applied rightly. Your indifference is half affectation, and a good stirring up would prove it.’
‘你不知道我能做什么。如果使用得当，雪会产生光泽和刺痛感。你的冷漠一半是矫揉造作，好好煽动一下就可以证明这一点。

‘Stir away, it won’t hurt me and it may amuse you, as the big man said when his little wife beat him. Regard me in the light of a husband or a carpet, and beat till you are tired, if that sort of exercise agrees with you.’
“滚开，这不会伤害我，而且可能会让你觉得好笑，正如大个子在他的小妻子殴打他时所说的那样。把我当作丈夫或地毯，然后打到你累了，如果这种运动适合你的话。

Being decidedly nettled herself, and longing to see him shake off the apathy that so altered him, Amy sharpened both tongue and pencil, and began.
艾米显然很恼火，也渴望看到他摆脱改变他的冷漠，于是她削尖了舌头和铅笔，开始了。

‘Flo and I have got a new name for you. It’s Lazy Laurence. How do you like it?’
“弗洛和我给你起了一个新名字。这是懒惰的劳伦斯。你喜欢吗？'

She thought it would annoy him, but he only folded his arms under his head, with an imperturbable, ‘That’s not bad. Thank you, ladies.’
她以为这会惹恼他，但他只是将双臂抱在头下，一副泰然自若的样子，“那还不错。”谢谢你们，女士们。

‘Do you want to know what I honestly think of you?’
“你想知道我对你的真实看法吗？”

‘Pining to be told.’
“渴望被告知。”

‘Well, I despise you.’ If she had even said ‘I hate you’ in a petulant or coquettish tone, he would have laughed and rather liked it, but the grave, almost sad, accent in her voice made him open his eyes, and ask quickly...
“好吧，我鄙视你。”如果她用任性或卖弄的语气说“我恨你”，他一定会笑起来，而且相当喜欢，但她声音中严肃、近乎悲伤的口音让他睁开了眼睛。 ，赶紧询问……

‘Why, if you please?’
“请问，为什么？”

‘Because, with every chance for being good, useful, and happy, you are faulty, lazy, and miserable.’
“因为，尽管你有一切机会变得善良、有用和快乐，但你却是错误的、懒惰的和痛苦的。”

‘Strong language, mademoiselle.’
“用词很重，小姐。”

‘If you like it, I’ll go on.’
“如果你喜欢，我就继续。”

‘Pray do, it’s quite interesting.’
“请这样做，这很有趣。”

‘I thought you’d find it so. Selfish people always like to talk about themselves.’
“我以为你会这么认为。自私的人总是喜欢谈论自己。

‘Am I selfish?’ The question slipped out involuntarily and in a tone of surprise, for the one virtue on which he prided himself was generosity.
“我自私吗？”这个问题不由自主地以一种惊讶的语气脱口而出，因为他引以为豪的一项美德就是慷慨。

‘Yes, very selfish,’ continued Amy, in a calm, cool voice, twice as effective just then as an angry one. ‘I’ll show you how, for I’ve studied you while we were frolicking, and I’m not at all satisfied with you. Here you have been abroad nearly six months, and done nothing but waste time and money and disappoint your friends.’
“是的，非常自私。”艾米继续说道，她的声音平静而冷静，比当时愤怒的声音有效一倍。 “我会告诉你怎么做，因为我在我们嬉戏时研究过你，而且我对你一点也不满意。你已经在国外呆了将近六个月了，除了浪费时间和金钱，让你的朋友失望之外，什么也没做。”

‘Isn’t a fellow to have any pleasure after a four-year grind?’
“一个人经过四年的磨练，难道没有一点乐趣吗？”

‘You don’t look as if you’d had much. At any rate, you are none the better for it, as far as I can see. I said when we first met that you had improved. Now I take it all back, for I don’t think you half so nice as when I left you at home. You have grown abominably lazy, you like gossip, and waste time on frivolous things, you are contented to be petted and admired by silly people, instead of being loved and respected by wise ones. With money, talent, position, health, and beauty, ah you like that old Vanity! But it’s the truth, so I can’t help saying it, with all these splendid things to use and enjoy, you can find nothing to do but dawdle, and instead of being the man you ought to be, you are only...’ There she stopped, with a look that had both pain and pity in it.
“你看上去好像拥有的不多。无论如何，在我看来，你并没有因此而变得更好。我们第一次见面的时候我就说过你进步了。现在我收回这一切，因为我觉得你已经不如我把你留在家里时那么好了。你变得极其懒惰，喜欢八卦，把时间浪费在无聊的事情上，你满足于被愚蠢的人宠爱和崇拜，而不是被聪明的人爱戴和尊重。有金钱、有才华、有地位、有健康、有美丽，啊你就像那个老虚荣！但这是事实，所以我忍不住要说，有这么多美妙的东西可以使用和享受，你却除了混日子之外无所事事，你不是成为你应该成为的人，你只是…… ”说到这里，她停了下来，脸上的神情中充满了痛苦和怜悯。

‘Saint Laurence on a gridiron,’ added Laurie, blandly finishing the sentence. But the lecture began to take effect, for there was a wide-awake sparkle in his eyes now and a half-angry, half-injured expression replaced the former indifference.
“烤架上的圣劳伦斯，”劳里补充道，温和地结束了这句话。但讲座开始生效，因为他的眼睛里现在闪烁着清醒的光芒，半生气半受伤的表情取代了之前的冷漠。

‘I supposed you’d take it so. You men tell us we are angels, and say we can make you what we will, but the instant we honestly try to do you good, you laugh at us and won’t listen, which proves how much your flattery is worth.’ Amy spoke bitterly, and turned her back on the exasperating martyr at her feet.
“我以为你会这么认为。你们这些人告诉我们我们是天使，并说我们可以让你成为我们想要的，但当我们真诚地试图为你做好事的那一刻，你嘲笑我们并且不听，这证明了你的奉承是多么值得。”艾米她痛苦地说道，然后背对着脚下令人恼火的烈士。

In a minute a hand came down over the page, so that she could not draw, and Laurie’s voice said, with a droll imitation of a penitent child, ‘I will be good, oh, I will be good!’
过了一会儿，一只手落在了纸上，她无法画画了，劳里的声音滑稽地模仿着悔罪的孩子说：“我会好的，哦，我会好的！”

But Amy did not laugh, for she was in earnest, and tapping on the outspread hand with her pencil, said soberly, ‘Aren’t you ashamed of a hand like that? It’s as soft and white as a woman’s, and looks as if it never did anything but wear Jouvin’s best gloves and pick flowers for ladies. You are not a dandy, thank Heaven, so I’m glad to see there are no diamonds or big seal rings on it, only the little old one Jo gave you so long ago. Dear soul, I wish she was here to help me!’
但艾米没有笑，她很认真，用铅笔敲着那只伸出的手，严肃地说：“你这样的手不感到羞耻吗？”它像女人的手一样柔软、洁白，看起来除了戴上茹文最好的手套、为女士们摘花之外，什么也没做。感谢老天，你不是花花公子，所以我很高兴看到上面没有钻石或大密封戒指，只有乔很久以前送给你的那个小旧戒指。亲爱的灵魂，我希望她能在这里帮助我！

‘So do I!’
'我也是！'

The hand vanished as suddenly as it came, and there was energy enough in the echo of her wish to suit even Amy. She glanced down at him with a new thought in her mind, but he was lying with his hat half over his face, as if for shade, and his mustache hid his mouth. She only saw his chest rise and fall, with a long breath that might have been a sigh, and the hand that wore the ring nestled down into the grass, as if to hide something too precious or too tender to be spoken of. All in a minute various hints and trifles assumed shape and significance in Amy’s mind, and told her what her sister never had confided to her. She remembered that Laurie never spoke voluntarily of Jo, she recalled the shadow on his face just now, the change in his character, and the wearing of the little old ring which was no ornament to a handsome hand. Girls are quick to read such signs and feel their eloquence. Amy had fancied that perhaps a love trouble was at the bottom of the alteration, and now she was sure of it. Her keen eyes filled, and when she spoke again, it was in a voice that could be beautifully soft and kind when she chose to make it so.
那只手消失得突然，来得突然，而她的愿望的回声中蕴藏着足够的能量，甚至适合艾米。她低头看了他一眼，心中有了新的想法，但他正躺着，帽子半遮着脸，仿佛是为了遮荫，小胡子遮住了他的嘴。她只看到他的胸膛起伏，长长的呼吸像是一声叹息，戴着戒指的手依偎在草丛中，仿佛隐藏着什么珍贵又温柔的东西。刹那间，各种暗示和琐事在艾米的脑海中形成了形状和意义，告诉了她姐姐从未向她吐露过的事情。她记得劳里从来没有主动提起过乔，她记得刚才他脸上的阴影，他性格的变化，还有那只在英俊的手上毫无装饰的小戒指。女孩们很快就能读懂这些标志并感受到它们的口才。艾米曾以为这种改变的根源可能是爱情问题，现在她确信了这一点。她的目光充满了锐利，当她再次说话时，她的声音可以是美丽的、柔和的、友善的，只要她选择这样做。

‘I know I have no right to talk so to you, Laurie, and if you weren’t the sweetest-tempered fellow in the world, you’d be very angry with me. But we are all so fond and proud of you, I couldn’t bear to think they should be disappointed in you at home as I have been, though, perhaps they would understand the change better than I do.’
“我知道我没有权利对你这么说，劳里，如果你不是世界上脾气最温和的人，你就会生我的气。但我们都非常喜欢你，为你感到骄傲，我不忍心认为他们会像我一样对你在家里感到失望，不过，也许他们会比我更理解这种变化。

‘I think they would,’ came from under the hat, in a grim tone, quite as touching as a broken one.
“我想他们会的，”帽子下面传来，语气冷酷，就像破碎的语气一样令人感动。

‘They ought to have told me, and not let me go blundering and scolding, when I should have been more kind and patient than ever. I never did like that Miss Randal and now I hate her!’ said artful Amy, wishing to be sure of her facts this time.
“他们应该告诉我，而不是让我犯错误和责骂，而我本应该比以往更加友善和耐心。我从来不喜欢兰德尔小姐，现在我恨她！”狡猾的艾米说道，希望这次能确定她的事实。

‘Hang Miss Randal!’ And Laurie knocked the hat off his face with a look that left no doubt of his sentiments toward that young lady.
“绞死兰德尔小姐！”劳里把帽子从脸上摘了下来，他的表情毫无疑问地表明了他对那位年轻女士的感情。

‘I beg pardon, I thought...’ And there she paused diplomatically.
“请原谅，我想……”然后她外交地停了下来。

‘No, you didn’t, you knew perfectly well I never cared for anyone but Jo,’ Laurie said that in his old, impetuous tone, and turned his face away as he spoke.
“不，你没有，你很清楚，除了乔，我从来不关心任何人，”劳里用他古老而急躁的语气说道，一边说一边把脸转开。

‘I did think so, but as they never said anything about it, and you came away, I supposed I was mistaken. And Jo wouldn’t be kind to you? Why, I was sure she loved you dearly.’
“我确实这么认为，但由于他们从未对此说过任何话，而你却离开了，我想我错了。乔不会对你友善吗？为什么，我确信她深爱着你。

‘She was kind, but not in the right way, and it’s lucky for her she didn’t love me, if I’m the good-for-nothing fellow you think me. It’s her fault though, and you may tell her so.’
“她很友善，但方式不对，如果我是你认为的没出息的人，她很幸运她不爱我。”但这是她的错，你可以这样告诉她。

The hard, bitter look came back again as he said that, and it troubled Amy, for she did not know what balm to apply.
当他说这句话的时候，那种冷酷、苦涩的表情再次出现，这让艾米很烦恼，因为她不知道该用什么药膏。

‘I was wrong, I didn’t know. I’m very sorry I was so cross, but I can’t help wishing you’d bear it better, Teddy, dear.’
‘我错了，我不知道。我很抱歉我这么生气了，但我不禁希望你能忍受得更好，泰迪，亲爱的。

‘Don’t, that’s her name for me!’ And Laurie put up his hand with a quick gesture to stop the words spoken in Jo’s half-kind, half-reproachful tone. ‘Wait till you’ve tried it yourself,’ he added in a low voice, as he pulled up the grass by the handful.
“别这样，那是她给我起的名字！”劳里迅速举起手，制止了乔用半友善、半责备的语气说的话。 “等你亲自尝试一下，”他一边低声补充道，一边一把把草拔了起来。

‘I’d take it manfully, and be respected if i couldn’t be loved,’ said Amy, with the decision of one who knew nothing about it.
“如果我不能被爱，我会勇敢地接受它，并受到尊重，”艾米说道，这是一个对此一无所知的人的决定。

Now, Laurie flattered himself that he had borne it remarkably well, making no moan, asking no sympathy, and taking his trouble away to live it down alone. Amy’s lecture put the Matter in a new light, and for the first time it did look weak and selfish to lose heart at the first failure, and shut himself up in moody indifference. He felt as if suddenly shaken out of a pensive dream and found it impossible to go to sleep again. Presently he sat up and asked slowly, ‘Do you think Jo would despise me as you do?’
现在，劳里自以为自己已经很好地忍受了这一切，没有发出任何抱怨，没有寻求同情，而是把烦恼抛在脑后，独自度过这一切。艾米的演讲让这件事有了新的视角，第一次失败就灰心丧气，把自己封闭在喜怒无常的冷漠之中，这确实显得软弱和自私。他感觉自己好像突然从沉思的梦中惊醒，再也无法入睡。过了一会儿，他坐了起来，慢慢地问道：“你认为乔会像你一样鄙视我吗？”

‘Yes, if she saw you now. She hates lazy people. Why don’t you do something splendid, and make her love you?’
“是的，如果她现在看到你的话。”她讨厌懒惰的人。你为什么不做一些出色的事情，让她爱你呢？

‘I did my best, but it was no use.’
“我已经尽力了，但没有用。”

‘Graduating well, you mean? That was no more than you ought to have done, for your grandfather’s sake. It would have been shameful to fail after spending so much time and money, when everyone knew that you could do well.’
‘你的意思是，顺利毕业？为了你祖父的缘故，这不过是你应该做的。当每个人都知道你可以做得很好时，花费了这么多时间和金钱之后却失败了，那将是可耻的。”

‘I did fail, say what you will, for Jo wouldn’t love me,’
“无论你怎么说，我确实失败了，因为乔不会爱我。”

began Laurie, leaning his head on his hand in a despondent attitude.
劳里开口说道，他把头靠在手上，一副沮丧的样子。

‘No, you didn’t, and you’ll say so in the end, for it did you good, and proved that you could do something if you tried. If you’d only set about another task of some sort, you’d soon be your hearty, happy self again, and forget your trouble.’
‘不，你没有，最后你会这么说，因为这对你有好处，并证明如果你尝试的话你可以做一些事情。如果你只着手去做另一项任务，你很快就会再次变得热情、快乐，并忘记你的烦恼。

‘That’s impossible.’
'这不可能。'

‘Try it and see. You needn’t shrug your shoulders, and think, ‘Much she knows about such things’. I don’t pretend to be wise, but I am observing, and I see a great deal more than you’d imagine. I’m interested in other people’s experiences and inconsistencies, and though I can’t explain, I remember and use them for my own benefit. Love Jo all your days, if you choose, but don’t let it spoil you, for it’s wicked to throw away so many good gifts because you can’t have the one you want. There, I won’t lecture any more, for I know you’ll wake up and be a man in spite of that hardhearted girl.’
‘试试看吧。你不必耸耸肩，想，“她对这些事情了解很多”。我并不假装聪明，但我在观察，而且我看到的东西比你想象的要多得多。我对其他人的经历和不一致之处很感兴趣，虽然我无法解释，但我会记住并利用它们来为自己谋取利益。如果你愿意的话，一生一世地爱乔，但不要让它毁了你，因为因为得不到你想要的一件而扔掉这么多好礼物是邪恶的。在那里，我不会再讲课了，因为我知道你会醒来并成为一个男人，尽管有那个铁石心肠的女孩。

Neither spoke for several minutes. Laurie sat turning the little ring on his finger, and Amy put the last touches to the hasty sketch she had been working at while she talked. Presently she put it on his knee, merely saying, ‘How do you like that?’
双方都没有说话几分钟。劳里坐在那儿转动手指上的小戒指，艾米对她一边说话一边草草写下的草图进行了最后的润色。不久，她把它放在他的膝盖上，只是说：“你觉得怎么样？”

He looked and then he smiled, as he could not well help doing, for it was capitally done, the long, lazy figure on the grass, with listless face, half-shut eyes, and one hand holding a cigar, from which came the little wreath of smoke that encircled the dreamer’s head.
他看了看，然后笑了，他情不自禁地笑了，因为这件事做得太棒了，草地上那个懒洋洋的长身影，表情无精打采，半闭着眼睛，一只手拿着一支雪茄，从雪茄中传来了做梦者的头周围环绕着一圈烟雾。

‘How well you draw!’ he said, with a genuine surprise and pleasure at her skill, adding, with a half-laugh, ‘Yes, that’s me.’
“你画得多好！”他说，对她的技巧感到由衷的惊讶和高兴，半笑着补充道，“是的，那就是我。”

‘As you are. This is as you were.’ And Amy laid another sketch beside the one he held.
'就像你一样。这就是你原来的样子。”艾米在他拿着的草图旁边放了另一张草图。

It was not nearly so well done, but there was a life and spirit in it which atoned for many faults, and it recalled the past so vividly that a sudden change swept over the young man’s face as he looked. Only a rough sketch of Laurie taming a horse. Hat and coat were off, and every line of the active figure, resolute face, and commanding attitude was full of energy and meaning. The handsome brute, just subdued, stood arching his neck under the tightly drawn rein, with one foot impatiently pawing the ground, and ears pricked up as if listening for the voice that had mastered him. In the ruffled mane. The rider’s breezy hair and erect attitude, there was a suggestion of suddenly arrested motion, of strength, courage, and youthful buoyancy that contrasted sharply with the supine grace of the ‘DOLCE FAR NIENTE’ sketch. Laurie said nothing but as his eye went from one to the other, Amy say him flush up and fold his lips together as if he read and accepted the little lesson she had given him. That satisfied her, and without waiting for him to speak, she said, in her sprightly way...
虽然做得不太好，但里面有一种生命和精神，可以弥补许多过失，而且它对过去的回忆如此生动，以至于年轻人的脸上突然发生了变化。只有劳里驯马的粗略草图。帽子和外套都脱掉了，活跃的身材、坚毅的面容、威严的姿态，每一处线条都充满了活力和意义。英俊的畜生刚刚被制服，在紧紧勒住的缰绳下拱起脖子，一只脚不耐烦地刨着地面，竖起耳朵，仿佛在倾听控制他的声音。在皱褶的鬃毛里。骑手轻柔的头发和挺拔的姿势，给人一种突然停止的动作、力量、勇气和青春活力的暗示，与“DOLCE FAR NIENTE”草图中仰卧的优雅形成鲜明对比。劳里一言不发，但当他的目光从一只移到另一只时，艾米说他脸红了，双唇合拢，好像他读到并接受了她给他的这一点教训。这让她很满意，不等他说话，她就轻快地说道……

‘Don’t you remember the day you played Rarey with Puck, and we all looked on? Meg and Beth were frightened, but Jo clapped and pranced, and I sat on the fence and drew you. I found that sketch in my portfolio the other day, touched it up, and kept it to show you.’
“你不记得那天你和帕克一起打雷里，我们都在旁边看着吗？”梅格和贝丝很害怕，但乔一边拍手一边跳跃，我则坐在栅栏上吸引你。前几天我在我的作品集中发现了那张草图，对其进行了润色，然后保留下来给你看。

‘Much obliged. You’ve improved immensely since then, and I congratulate you. May I venture to suggest in ‘ a honeymoon paradise’ that five o’clock is the dinner hour at your hotel?’
'多谢。从那时起你已经有了很大的进步，我祝贺你。我可以冒昧地建议，在“蜜月天堂”中，五点钟是您酒店的晚餐时间吗？

Laurie rose as he spoke, returned the pictures with a smile and a bow and looked at his watch, as if to remind her that even moral lectures should have an end. He tried to resume his former easy, indifferent air, but it was an affectation now, for the rousing had been more effacious than he would confess. Amy felt the shade of coldness in his manner, and said to herself . ..
劳里一边说一边站了起来，微笑着鞠躬归还照片，然后看了看手表，仿佛在提醒她，即使是道德讲座也应该结束。他试图恢复以前轻松、冷漠的神情，但现在那是一种做作，因为这种兴奋比他承认的更有效。艾米感受到了他态度中的一丝冰冷，自言自语道。 ..

‘Now, I’ve offended him. Well, if it does him good, I’m glad, if it makes him hate me, I’m sorry, but it’s true, and I can’t take back a word of it.’
‘现在，我冒犯了他。好吧，如果这对他有好处，我很高兴，如果这让他恨我，我很抱歉，但这是事实，我无法收回一句话。

They laughed and chatted all the way home, and little Baptist, up behind, thought that monsieur and madamoiselle were in charming spirits. But both felt ill at ease. The friendly frankness was disturbed, the sunshine had a shadow over it, and despite their apparent gaiety, there was a secret discontent in the heart of each.
他们一路有说有笑地回家，小巴蒂斯特在后面，觉得先生和夫人兴高采烈。但两人都感到不太自在。友好的坦诚被打扰了，阳光蒙上了一层阴影，尽管他们表面上很高兴，但每个人的内心深处都隐藏着不满。

‘Shall we see you this evening, mon frere?’ asked Amy, as they parted at her aunt’s door.
“我们今晚能见到你吗，兄弟？”当他们在姨妈家门口分开时，艾米问道。

‘Unfortunately I have an engagement. Au revoir, madamoiselle.’ And Laurie bent as if to kiss her hand, in the foreign fashion, which became him better than many men. Something in his face made Amy say quickly and warmly...
“不幸的是我有约了。再见，夫人。”劳里弯下腰，仿佛要吻她的手，以外国的方式，这使他比许多男人更好。他脸上的表情让艾米快速而热情地说……

‘No, be yourself with me, Laurie, and part in the good old way. I’d rather have a hearty English handshake than all the sentimental salutations in France.’
“不，劳里，你要和我在一起，按照老好的方式分开。”我宁愿有一个真诚的英国式握手，也不愿在法国有所有感伤的问候。

‘Goodbye, dear.’ And with these words, uttered in the tone she liked, Laurie left her, after a handshake almost painful in its heartiness.
“再见，亲爱的。”劳里用她喜欢的语气说出了这句话，在与她握手后，她真诚地几乎感到痛苦，然后离开了。

Next morning, instead of the usual call, Amy received a note which made her smile at the beginning and sigh at the end.
第二天早上，艾米没有接到平常的电话，而是收到了一张字条，让她开头微笑，结尾叹息。

My Dear Mentor,
我亲爱的导师，

Please make my adieux to your aunt, and exult within yourself, for ‘Lazy Laurence’ has gone to his grandpa, like the best of boys. A pleasant winter to you, and may the gods grant you a blissful honeymoon at Valrosa! I think Fred would be benefited by a rouser. Tell him so, with my congratulations.
请让我向你的阿姨告别，并为自己感到高兴，因为“懒惰的劳伦斯”已经像最好的男孩一样去了他的爷爷身边。祝您度过一个愉快的冬天，愿诸神赐予您在瓦尔罗萨度过一个幸福的蜜月！我认为弗雷德会对唤醒者有利。告诉他这一点，并表示我的祝贺。

Yours gratefully,
谨致谢意，

Telemachus
特勒马科斯

‘Good boy! I’m glad he’s gone,’ said Amy, with an approving smile. The next minute her face fell as she glanced about the empty room, adding, with an involuntary sigh, ‘Yes, I am glad, but how I shall miss him.’
'好孩子！我很高兴他走了。”艾米带着赞许的微笑说道。下一分钟，她环顾空荡荡的房间，脸色沉了下来，不由自主地叹了口气，补充道：“是的，我很高兴，但我会多么想念他。”

CHAPTER FORTY
第四十章

When the first bitterness was over, the family accepted the inevitable, and tried to bear it cheerfully, helping one another by the increased affection which comes to bind households tenderly together in times of trouble. They put away their grief, and each did his or her part toward making that last year a happy one.
当最初的痛苦过去后，一家人接受了不可避免的事情，并试图愉快地忍受它，通过增加彼此的感情互相帮助，这种感情使一家人在遇到困难时温柔地团结在一起。他们抛开了悲伤，每个人都尽了自己的一份力量，让去年成为快乐的一年。

The pleasantest room in the house was set apart for Beth, and in it was gathered everything that she most loved, flowers, pictures, her piano, the little worktable, and the beloved pussies. Father’s best books found their way there, Mother’s easy chair, Jo’s desk, Amy’s finest sketches, and every day Meg brought her babies on a loving pilgrimage, to make sunshine for Aunty Beth. John quietly set apart a little sum, that he might enjoy the pleasure of keeping the invalid supplied with the fruit she loved and longed for. Old Hannah never wearied of concocting dainty dishes to tempt a capricious appetite, dropping tears as she worked, and from across the sea came little gifts and cheerful letters, seeming to bring breaths of warmth and fragrance from lands that know no winter.
房子里最令人愉快的房间是为贝丝预留的，里面聚集了她最喜欢的一切：鲜花、图画、她的钢琴、小工作台和心爱的阴部。父亲最好的书、母亲的安乐椅、乔的书桌、艾米最好的草图，梅格每天都带着她的孩子们进行充满爱的朝圣，为贝丝阿姨制造阳光。约翰默默地存了一点钱，以便他可以享受为病人提供她喜爱和渴望的水果的乐趣。老汉娜不厌其烦地烹制美味佳肴来满足反复无常的胃口，一边干活一边流着眼泪，大洋彼岸送来的小礼物和欢快的信件，似乎从不知道冬天的土地上带来了温暖和芬芳的气息。

Here, cherished like a household saint in its shrine, sat Beth, tranquil and busy as ever, for nothing could change the sweet, unselfish nature, and even while preparing to leave life, she tried to make it happier for those who should remain behind. The feeble fingers were never idle, and one of her pleasures was to make little things for the school children daily passing to and fro, to drop a pair of mittens from her window for a pair of purple hands, a needlebook for some small mother of many dolls, penwipers for young penmen toiling through forests of pothooks, scrapbooks for picture-loving eyes, and all manner of pleasant devices, till the reluctant climbers of the ladder of learning found their way strewn with flowers, as it were, and came to regard the gentle giver as a sort of fairy godmother, who sat above there, and showered down gifts miraculously suited to their tastes and needs. If Beth had wanted any reward, she found it in the bright little faces always turned up to her window, with nods and smiles, and the droll little letters which came to her, full of blots and gratitude.
贝丝坐在这里，像神殿里的家庭圣人一样受到珍视，一如既往地平静而忙碌，因为没有什么可以改变甜蜜、无私的本性，即使在准备离开生命的时候，她也试图让那些应该留下来的人感到更快乐。 。虚弱的手指从不闲着，她的乐趣之一就是为每天来来往往的学童做一些小东西，从窗户上扔下一双手套换取一双紫色的手，为某个小孩子的母亲准备一本针线书。许多洋娃娃，为年轻的笔工在钩子森林中辛勤劳作的擦笔器，为热爱绘画的眼睛提供的剪贴簿，以及各种令人愉快的装置，直到学习阶梯上不情愿的攀登者发现他们的道路铺满了花朵，并来到了将温柔的送礼者视为仙女教母，她坐在上面，奇迹般地送出适合他们品味和需求的礼物。如果贝丝想要任何奖励的话，她会在那些总是转向窗前、点头和微笑的明亮小脸以及写给她的滑稽小信中找到它，这些小信充满了污点和感激之情。

The first few months were very happy ones, and Beth often used to look round, and say ‘How beautiful this is!’ as they all sat together in her sunny room, the babies kicking and crowing on the floor, mother and sisters working near, and father reading, in his pleasant voice, from the wise old books which seemed rich in good and comfortable words, as applicable now as when written centuries ago, a little chapel, where a paternal priest taught his flock the hard lessons all must learn, trying to show them that hope can comfort love, and faith make resignation possible. Simple sermons, that went straight to the souls of those who listened, for the father’s heart was in the minister’s religion, and the frequent falter in the voice gave a double eloquence to the words he spoke or read.
最初的几个月非常快乐，贝丝常常环顾四周，说“这多漂亮啊！”，因为他们一起坐在她阳光明媚的房间里，婴儿们在地板上又踢又叫，母亲和姐妹们在附近工作。 ，父亲用他愉快的声音阅读那些充满智慧和舒适的文字的古老书籍，这些书籍似乎充满了美好而舒适的文字，就像几个世纪前写的那样适用于现在，在一个小教堂里，一位父亲牧师在那里向他的羊群传授所有人都必须学习的艰难教训，试图向他们表明希望可以安慰爱情，而信仰可以让放弃成为可能。简单的布道，直击听众的灵魂，因为父亲的心全在牧师的宗教上，声音中频繁的结结巴巴使他所说或所读的话语具有双重的雄辩力。

It was well for all that this peaceful time was given them as preparation for the sad hours to come, for by-and-by, Beth said the needle was ‘so heavy’, and put it down forever. Talking wearied her, faces troubled her, pain claimed her for its own, and her tranquil spirit was sorrowfully perturbed by the ills that vexed her feeble flesh. Ah me! Such heavy days, such long, long nights, such aching hearts and imploring prayers, when those who loved her best were forced to see the thin hands stretched out to them beseechingly, to hear the bitter cry, ‘Help me, help me!’ and to feel that there was no help. A sad eclipse of the serene soul, a sharp struggle of the young life with death, but both were mercifully brief, and then the natural rebellion over, the old peace returned more beautiful than ever. With the wreck of her frail body, Beth’s soul grew strong, and though she said little, those about her felt that she was ready, saw that the first pilgrim called was likewise the fittest, and waited with her on the shore, trying to see the Shining Ones coming to receive her when she crossed the river.
对所有人来说，这平静的时光是为了为即将到来的悲伤时刻做准备，因为不久之后，贝丝说针“太重了”，并永远把它放下了。说话使她疲倦，面孔使她烦恼，痛苦夺走了她的生命，她平静的精神因折磨她虚弱肉体的疾病而悲伤地扰乱。啊我！如此沉重的日子，如此漫长、漫长的夜晚，如此痛苦的心和恳求的祈祷，当那些最爱她的人被迫看到她向他们伸出的纤细的双手恳求时，听到痛苦的呼喊，“救救我，救救我！”并感到没有任何帮助。宁静的灵魂悲伤地黯然失色，年轻的生命与死亡进行激烈的斗争，但幸运的是，两者都很短暂，然后自然的叛逆结束了，旧日的平静比以往任何时候都更加美丽。随着她脆弱的身体的崩溃，贝丝的灵魂变得坚强，虽然她话不多，但她周围的人都觉得她已经准备好了，看到第一个被召唤的朝圣者同样是最适合的，并和她一起在岸上等待，试图看到她的情况。当她过河时，光辉们来迎接她。

Jo never left her for an hour since Beth had said ‘I feel stronger when you are here.’ She slept on a couch in the room, waking often to renew the fire, to feed, lift, or wait upon the patient creature who seldom asked for anything, and ‘tried not to be a trouble’. All day she haunted the room, jealous of any other nurse, and prouder of being chosen then than of any honor her life ever brought her. Precious and helpful hours to Jo, for now her heart received the teaching that it needed. Lessons in patience were so sweetly taught her that she could not fail to learn them, charity for all, the lovely spirit that can forgive and truly forget unkindness, the loyalty to duty that makes the hardest easy, and the sincere faith that fears nothing, but trusts undoubtingly.
自从贝丝说“你在这儿我感觉更坚强”以来，乔从来没有离开过她一个小时。她睡在房间的沙发上，经常醒来去生火、喂食、扶起或侍候这个很少有耐心的生物。提出任何要求，并“尽量不成为麻烦”。她整天在房间里出没，嫉妒任何其他护士，对被选中比她一生给她带来的任何荣誉更自豪。对于乔来说，这是宝贵而有益的时光，现在她的心接受了所需的教导。耐心的教训是如此甜蜜，她不能不学习，对所有人的慈善，能够宽恕并真正忘记不友善的可爱精神，对责任的忠诚使最困难的事情变得容易，以及无所畏惧的真诚信念，但毫无疑问地信任。

Often when she woke Jo found Beth reading in her well-worn little book, heard her singing softly, to beguile the sleepless night, or saw her lean her face upon her hands, while slow tears dropped through the transparent fingers, and Jo would lie watching her with thoughts too deep for tears, feeling that Beth, in her simple, unselfish way, was trying to wean herself from the dear old life, and fit herself for the life to come, by sacred words of comfort, quiet prayers, and the music she loved so well.
通常，当她醒来时，乔发现贝丝正在看她那本破旧的小书，听到她轻声唱歌，以哄骗不眠之夜，或者看到她把脸靠在双手上，泪水慢慢地从透明的手指上流下来，乔会撒谎看着她，思绪太深，无法流泪，感觉到贝丝正以她简单、无私的方式，试图通过神圣的安慰话语、安静的祈祷和她非常喜欢的音乐。

Seeing this did more for Jo than the wisest sermons, the saintliest hymns, the most fervent prayers that any voice could utter. For with eyes made clear by many tears, and a heart softened by the tenderest sorrow, she recognized the beauty of her sister’s life—uneventful, unambitious, yet full of the genuine virtues which ‘smell sweet, and blossom in the dust’, the self-forgetfulness that makes the humblest on earth remembered soonest in heaven, the true success which is possible to all.
看到这一点对乔来说，比最明智的布道、最神圣的赞美诗、最热切的祈祷更重要。因为，她的眼睛因泪水而变得清澈，一颗心因最温柔的悲伤而变得柔软，她认识到姐姐一生的美丽——平安无事，胸无大志，但却充满了真正的美德，“闻起来香甜，在尘埃中绽放”，忘我能让地球上最卑微的人在天堂里最快地被记住，这是所有人都可能获得的真正成功。

One night when Beth looked among the books upon her table, to find something to make her forget the mortal weariness that was almost as hard to bear as pain, as she turned the leaves of her old favorite, Pilgrims’s Progress, she found a little paper, scribbled over in Jo’s hand. The name caught her eye and the blurred look of the lines made her sure that tears had fallen on it.
一天晚上，当贝丝翻阅她最喜欢的《天路历程》的书页时，她翻阅桌上的书本，想找到一些能让她忘记几乎和痛苦一样难以忍受的致命疲倦的东西，她发现了一张小纸，在乔的手里潦草地写着。这个名字引起了她的注意，模糊的线条让她确信泪水已经落在上面了。

‘Poor Jo! She’s fast asleep, so I won’t wake her to ask leave. She shows me all her things, and I don’t think she’ll mind if I look at this’, thought Beth, with a glance at her sister, who lay on the rug, with the tongs beside her, ready to wake up the minute the log fell apart.
可怜的乔！她睡得很熟，所以我不会叫醒她请假。她向我展示了她所有的东西，我想她不会介意我看这个，”贝丝想道，看了一眼她的妹妹，她躺在地毯上，夹子在她旁边，准备醒来。木头倒塌的那一刻。

MY BETH
我的贝丝


Sitting patient in the shadow
病人坐在阴影里

Till the blessed light shall come,
直到祝福之光降临，

A serene and saintly presence
宁静而神圣的存在

Sanctifies our troubled home.
圣化我们陷入困境的家园。

Earthly joys and hopes and sorrows
尘世的欢乐、希望和悲伤

Break like ripples on the strand
像绳子上的涟漪一样破裂

Of the deep and solemn river
深邃而庄严的河流

Where her willing feet now stand.
她自愿的双脚现在站立的地方。


O my sister, passing from me,
噢，我的姐妹，从我身边走过，

Out of human care and strife,
出于人性的关怀和纷争，

Leave me, as a gift, those virtues
把这些美德作为礼物留给我

Which have beautified your life.
那些美化了你的生活。

Dear, bequeath me that great patience
亲爱的，请赐予我极大的耐心

Which has power to sustain
有力量维持

A cheerful, uncomplaining spirit
开朗、无怨言的精神

In its prison-house of pain.
在痛苦的监狱里。


Give me, for I need it sorely,
给我吧，因为我非常需要它，

Of that courage, wise and sweet,
那种勇气、智慧和甜蜜，

Which has made the path of duty
这成就了责任之路

Green beneath your willing feet.
绿色在你愿意的脚下。

Give me that unselfish nature,
给我那无私的本性，

That with charity devine
慈善事业是神圣的

Can pardon wrong for love’s dear sake—
为了爱可以原谅错误——

Meek heart, forgive me mine!
温柔的心，请原谅我的心！


Thus our parting daily loseth
于是我们的离别每日都失去

Something of its bitter pain,
某种苦涩的痛苦，

And while learning this hard lesson,
在学习这个惨痛的教训的同时，

My great loss becomes my gain.
我的巨大损失变成了我的收获。

For the touch of grief will render
因为悲伤的触碰会呈现

My wild nature more serene,
我的野性更加宁静，

Give to life new aspirations,
赋予生活新的向往，

A new trust in the unseen.
对看不见的事物的新信任。


Henceforth, safe across the river,
从此，安全过河，

I shall see forever more
我将永远看到更多

A beloved, household spirit
深受喜爱的家庭精神

Waiting for me on the shore.
在岸边等我。

Hope and faith, born of my sorrow,
希望和信念，源于我的悲伤，

Guardian angels shall become,
守护天使将成为，

And the sister gone before me
姐姐先于我而去

By their hands shall lead me home.
他们的手将带我回家。

Blurred and blotted, faulty and feeble as the lines were, they brought a look of inexpressible comfort to Beth’s face, for her one regret had been that she had done so little, and this seemed to assure her that her life had not been useless, that her death would not bring the despair she feared. As she sat with the paper folded between her hands, the charred log fell asunder. Jo started up, revived the blaze, and crept to the bedside, hoping Beth slept.
尽管线条模糊、污迹斑斑、有缺陷、无力，但它们给贝丝的脸上带来了一种难以形容的安慰，因为她唯一的遗憾就是自己做得太少了，这似乎让她确信她的生活并非毫无用处，她的死不会带来她所担心的绝望。当她双手夹着纸坐着时，烧焦的木头掉了下来。乔惊醒过来，点燃了火，然后爬到床边，希望贝丝睡着了。

‘Not asleep, but so happy, dear. See, I found this and read it. I knew you wouldn’t care. Have I been all that to you, Jo?’ she asked, with wistful, humble earnestness.
“没有睡着，但很高兴，亲爱的。看，我找到了这个并阅读了它。我知道你不会在意。 “乔，我对你就是这样吗？”她带着渴望而谦虚的真诚问道。

‘OH, Beth, so much, so much!’ And Jo’s head went down upon the pillow beside her sister’s.
“哦，贝丝，太多了，太多了！”乔的头垂到了她姐姐旁边的枕头上。

‘Then I don’t feel as if I’d wasted my life. I’m not so good as you make me, but I have tried to do right. And now, when it’s too late to begin even to do better, it’s such a comfort to know that someone loves me so much, and feels as if I’d helped them.’
“那么我就不觉得自己浪费了生命。我没有你想象的那么好，但我已经尽力做正确的事。现在，当开始做得更好时已经太晚了，知道有人如此爱我，并且感觉好像我帮助了他们，真是一种安慰。”

‘More than any one in the world, Beth. I used to think I couldn’t let you go, but I’m learning to feel that I don’t lose you, that you’ll be more to me than ever, and death can’t part us, though it seems to.’
“比世界上任何人都多，贝丝。我曾经以为我不能让你走，但我正在学着感觉我不会失去你，你会比以往任何时候都更重要，死亡无法将我们分开，尽管它似乎.'

‘I know it cannot, and I don’t fear it any longer, for I’m sure I shall be your Beth still, to love and help you more than ever. You must take my place, Jo, and be everything to Father and Mother when I’m gone. They will turn to you, don’t fail them, and if it’s hard to work alone, remember that I don’t forget you, and that you’ll be happier in doing that than writing splendid books or seeing all the world, for love is the only thing that we can carry with us when we go, and it makes the go easy.’
“我知道不可能，我不再害怕，因为我确信我仍然是你的贝丝，比以往任何时候都更加爱你、帮助你。”乔，你必须取代我的位置，在我离开后成为爸爸和妈妈的一切。他们会转向你，不要让他们失望，如果独自工作很困难，请记住我不会忘记你，而且这样做比写精彩的书或环游世界更让你快乐，因为爱是我们离开时唯一可以随身携带的东西，它让我们的旅程变得轻松。”

‘I’ll try, Beth.’ And then and there Jo renounced her old ambition, pledged herself to a new and better one, acknowledging the poverty of other desires, and feeling the blessed solace of a belief in the immortality of love.
“我会努力的，贝丝。”乔就在那时放弃了她原来的抱负，发誓要立下一个新的、更好的抱负，承认其他欲望的贫乏，并感受到对爱情不朽的信仰所带来的幸福安慰。

So the spring days came and went , the sky grew clearer, the earth greener, the flowers were up fairly early, and the birds came back in time to say goodbye to Beth, who, like a tired but trustful child, clung to the hands that had led her all her life, as Father and Mother guided her tenderly through the Valley of the Shadow, and gave her up to God.
春天来了又去，天空变得更晴朗，大地更绿，花儿也早早地开放了，鸟儿及时飞回来，向贝丝告别，而贝丝就像一个疲倦但信任的孩子，紧握着双手。这引导了她一生，就像父亲和母亲温柔地引导她穿过阴影之谷，并将她交给上帝一样。

Seldom except in books do the dying utter memorable words, see visions, or depart with beatified countenances, and those who have sped many parting souls know that to most the end comes as naturally and simply as sleep. As Beth had hoped, the ‘tide went out easily’, and in the dark hour before dawn, on the bosom where she had drawn her first breath, she quietly drew her last, with no farewell but one loving look, one little sigh.
除了书本之外，临终者很少会说出令人难忘的话语，看到异象，或者带着幸福的表情离开，而那些加速了许多离别灵魂的人都知道，对大多数人来说，死亡就像睡眠一样自然而简单。正如贝丝所希望的那样，“潮水很容易就退了”，在黎明前的黑暗时刻，在她吸了第一口气的胸口上，她静静地吸了最后一口气，没有告别，只有一个充满爱意的眼神和一声轻轻的叹息。

With tears and prayers and tender hands, Mother and sisters made her ready for the long sleep that pain would never mar again, seeing with grateful eyes the beautiful serenity that soon replaced the pathetic patience that had wrung their hearts so long, and feeling with reverent joy that to their darling death was a benignant angel, not a phantom full of dread.
母亲和姐妹们用泪水、祈祷和温柔的双手，让她为长眠做好准备，让痛苦永远不会再损害他们，用感激的目光看到美丽的宁静，很快取代了长期折磨她们心灵的可悲的耐心，并怀着崇敬的心情。庆幸的是，他们亲爱的死亡是一位仁慈的天使，而不是一个充满恐惧的幽灵。

When morning came, for the first time in many months the fire was out, Jo’s place was empty, and the room was very still. But a bird sang blithely on a budding bough, close by, the snowdrops blossomed freshly at the window, and the spring sunshine streamed in like a benediction over the placid face upon the pillow, a face so full of painless peace that those who loved it best smiled through their tears, and thanked God that Beth was well at last.
早晨到来时，火几个月来第一次被扑灭，乔的住处空无一人，房间里一片寂静。但一只小鸟在发芽的树枝上欢快地歌唱，近处，雪花莲在窗前绽放，春天的阳光像祝福一样倾泻在枕头上平静的脸上，这张脸上充满了无痛的平静，让那些爱它的人贝丝含着泪水微笑着，感谢上帝贝丝终于康复了。

CHAPTER FORTY-ONE
第四十一章

Amy’s lecture did Laurie good, though, of course, he did not own it till long afterward. Men seldom do, for when women are the advisers, the lords of creation don’t take the advice till they have persuaded themselves that it is just what they intended to do. Then they act upon it, and, if it succeeds, they give the weaker vessel half the credit of it. If it fails, they generously give her the whole. Laurie went back to his grandfather, and was so dutifully devoted for several weeks that the old gentleman declared the climate of Nice had improved him wonderfully, and he had better try it again. There was nothing the young gentleman would have liked better, but elephants could not have dragged him back after the scolding he had received. Pride forbid, and whenever the longing grew very strong, he fortified his resolution by repeating the words that had made the deepest impression, ‘I despise you.’ ‘Go and do something splendid that will make her love you.’
艾米的演讲对劳里有好处，当然，他直到很久以后才承认这一点。男人很少这样做，因为当女人担任顾问时，造物之主不会接受建议，直到他们说服自己这正是他们打算做的事情。然后他们对其采取行动，如果成功，他们会将一半的功劳归给较弱的船只。如果失败了，他们会慷慨地把一切都给她。劳里回到了他的祖父身边，几周以来他尽职尽责，以至于老绅士宣称尼斯的气候使他有了极大的改善，他最好再尝试一次。没有什么比这位年轻绅士更喜欢的了，但在他受到责骂后，大象不可能把他拖回来。骄傲是不允许的，每当这种渴望变得非常强烈时，他就会通过重复给他留下最深刻印象的话来强化自己的决心：“我鄙视你。”“去做一些出色的事情，让她爱你。”

Laurie turned the matter over in his mind so often that he soon brought himself to confess that he had been selfish and lazy, but then when a man has a great sorrow, he should be indulged in all sorts of vagaries till he has lived it down. He felt that his blighted affections were quite dead now, and though he should never cease to be a faithful mourner, there was no occasion to wear his weeds ostentatiously. Jo wouldn’t love him, but he might make her respect and admire him by doing something which should prove that a girl’s no had not spoiled his life. He had always meant to do something, and Amy’s advice was quite unnecessary. He had only been waiting till the aforesaid blighted affections were decently interred. That being done, he felt that he was ready to ‘hide his stricken heart, and still toil on’.
劳里在心里反复思考这件事，很快他就承认自己很自私、懒惰，但当一个人陷入巨大的悲伤时，他应该沉迷于各种变幻莫测的事情，直到他平息下来。 。他觉得自己枯萎的感情现在已经完全消失了，尽管他永远不会停止做一个忠实的哀悼者，但没有机会炫耀地穿着他的杂草。乔不会爱他，但他可能会做一些事情来证明女孩的拒绝并没有破坏他的生活，从而让她尊重和钦佩他。他一直想做点什么，艾米的建议完全没有必要。他只是在等待，直到上述枯萎的感情得到体面的埋葬。做到这一点后，他觉得自己已经准备好“隐藏受伤的心，继续努力”。

As Goethe, when he had a joy or a grief, put it into a song, so Laurie resolved to embalm his love sorrow in music, and to compose a Requiem which should harrow up Jo’s soul and melt the heart of every hearer. Therefore the next time the old gentleman found him getting restless and moody and ordered him off, he went to Vienna, where he had musical friends, and fell to work with the firm determination to distinguish himself. But whether the sorrow was too vast to be embodied in music, or music too ethereal to uplift a mortal woe, he soon discovered that the Requiem was beyond him just at present. It was evident that his mind was not in working order yet, and his ideas needed clarifying, for often in the middle of a plaintive strain, he would find himself humming a dancing tune that vividly recalled the Christmas ball at Nice, especially the stout Frenchman, and put an effectual stop to tragic composition for the time being.
就像歌德一样，当他有欢乐或悲伤时，都会把它写成一首歌，劳里也决心用音乐来保存他的爱情悲伤，并创作一首安魂曲，让乔的灵魂痛苦，融化每一个听众的心。因此，当老先生下次发现他焦躁不安、喜怒无常并责令他离开时，他就去了他有音乐朋友的维也纳，并怀着出人头地的坚定决心投入到工作中。但无论是悲伤太大而无法在音乐中体现，还是音乐太空灵而无法解除凡人的悲痛，他很快就发现安魂曲目前超出了他的能力。显然，他的头脑还没有正常运转，他的想法需要澄清，因为经常在悲伤的压力中，他会发现自己哼着一首舞曲，生动地让人想起尼斯的圣诞舞会，尤其是那个胖胖的法国人。 ，暂时有效地制止了悲剧的创作。

Then he tried an opera, for nothing seemed impossible in the beginning, but here again unforeseen difficulties beset him. He wanted Jo for his heroine, and called upon his memory to supply him with tender recollections and romantic visions of his love. But memory turned traitor, and as if possessed by the perverse spirit of the girl, would only recall Jo’s oddities, faults, and freaks, would only show her in the most unsentimental aspects—beating mats with her head tied up in a bandana, barricading herself with the sofa pillow, or throwing cold water over his passion a la Gummidge—and an irresistable laugh spoiled the pensive picture he was endeavoring to paint. Jo wouldn’t be put into the opera at any price, and he had to give her up with a ‘Bless that girl, what a torment she is!’ and a clutch at his hair, as became a distracted composer.
然后他尝试了一部歌剧，一开始似乎没有什么不可能的，但在这里，意想不到的困难再次困扰着他。他希望乔成为他的女主角，并呼吁他的记忆为他提供对他的爱情的温柔回忆和浪漫幻想。但记忆变成了叛徒，仿佛被这个女孩的邪恶精神所附身，只会回忆起乔的古怪、过错和怪胎，只会让她看到最不带感情色彩的一面——用头巾绑着头敲打垫子，设置路障。她自己和沙发枕头在一起，或者像橡皮糖一样向他的激情泼冷水——不可抗拒的笑声破坏了他正在努力描绘的沉思的画面。乔无论如何都不会被放进歌剧中，他不得不放弃她，说了一句“上帝保佑那个女孩，她真是一个折磨！”，并抓住了他的头发，就像一个心烦意乱的作曲家一样。

When he looked about him for another and a less intractable damsel to immortalize in melody, memory produced one with the most obliging readiness. This phantom wore many faces, but it always had golden hair, was enveloped in a diaphanous cloud, and floated airily before his mind’s eye in a pleasing chaos of roses, peacocks, white ponies, and blue ribbons. He did not give the complacent wraith any name, but he took her for his heroine and grew quite fond of her, as well he might, for he gifted her with every gift and grace under the sun, and escorted her, unscathed, through trials which would have annihilated any mortal woman.
当他环顾四周，寻找另一个不那么难驾驭的少女，让他的旋律永垂不朽时，记忆就毫不犹豫地创造了一个。这个幻影有很多面孔，但它总是有一头金色的头发，被一层透明的云包裹着，在他的脑海中飘浮，周围是玫瑰、孔雀、白马和蓝色丝带的令人愉悦的混乱。他没有给这个自鸣得意的幽灵任何名字，但他把她当作他的女英雄，并且越来越喜欢她，因为他赐予了她阳光下的一切礼物和恩典，并护送她毫发无伤地度过了考验。这会消灭任何凡间的女人。

Thanks to this inspiration, he got on swimmingly for a time, but gradually the work lost its charm, and he forgot to compose, while he sat musing, pen in hand, or roamed about the gay city to get some new ideas and refresh his mind, which seemed to be in a somewhat unsettled state that winter. He did not do much, but he thought a great deal and was conscious of a change of some sort going on in spite of himself. ‘It’s genius simmering, perhaps. I’ll let it simmer, and see what comes of it,’ he said, with a secret suspicion all the while that it wasn’t genius, but something far more common. Whatever it was, it simmered to some purpose, for he grew more and more discontented with his desultory life, began to long for some real and earnest work to go at, soul and body, and finally came to the wise conclusion that everyone who loved music was not a composer. Returning from one of Mozart’s grand operas, splendidly performed at the Royal Theatre, he looked over his own, played a few of the best parts, sat staring at the busts of Mendelssohn, Beethoven, and bach, who stared benignly back again. Then suddenly he tore up his music sheets, one by one, and as the last fluttered out of his hand, he said soberly to himself...
受此启发，他一度得心应手，但渐渐地，作品失去了魅力，他忘记了作曲，要么拿着笔坐着沉思，要么在这座同性恋城市里闲逛，汲取新的想法，刷新自己的生活。那年冬天，我的心似乎有些不安。他没有做太多事情，但他想了很多，并且意识到某种变化正在不由自主地发生。 “也许，这就是天才的酝酿。”我会让它慢慢沸腾，看看会发生什么，”他说，同时暗自怀疑这不是天才，而是更常见的东西。不管是什么，它都在酝酿着某种目的，因为他对自己杂乱无章的生活越来越不满，开始渴望从事一些真正认真的工作，无论是灵魂还是身体，最后得出了明智的结论：每个爱他的人音乐不是作曲家。从皇家剧院精彩演出的莫扎特的一部大型歌剧回来后，他审视了自己的作品，演奏了一些最好的部分，坐在那儿凝视着门德尔松、贝多芬和巴赫的半身像，而后者又亲切地回望着他。然后他突然把乐谱一张一张地撕掉，当最后一张从他手中飘落时，他清醒地对自己说……

‘She is right! Talent isn’t genius, and you can’t make it so. That music has taken the vanity out of my as Rome took it out of her, and I won’t be a humbug any longer. Now what shall I do?’
'她是对的！天才不是天才，你也无法做到。那音乐夺走了我的虚荣心，就像罗马夺走了她的虚荣心一样，我将不再是一个骗子。现在我该怎么办？

That seemed a hard question to answer, and Laurie began to wish he had to work for his daily bread. Now if ever, occurred an eligible opportunity for ‘going to the devil’, as he once forcibly expressed it, for he had plenty of money and nothing to do, and Satan is proverbially fond of providing employment for full and idle hands. The poor fellow had temptations enough from without and from within, but he withstood them pretty well, for much as he valued liberty, he valued good faith and confidence more, so his promise to his grandfather, and his desire to be able to look honestly into the eyes of the women who loved him, and say ‘All’s well,’ kept him safe and steady.
这似乎是一个很难回答的问题，劳里开始希望他必须为自己的日常面包而工作。现在，如果有的话，出现了一个“走向魔鬼”的好机会，正如他曾经强行表达的那样，因为他有很多钱，却无事可做，众所周知，撒旦喜欢为忙碌而闲散的人提供就业机会。这个可怜的家伙有足够的来自外部和内部的诱惑，但他很好地抵御了这些诱惑，因为尽管他重视自由，但他更重视真诚和信心，所以他对祖父的承诺，以及他能够诚实地看待的愿望在爱他的女人眼中，说“一切都好”，让他安全稳定。

Very likely some Mrs. Grundy will observe, ‘I don’t believe it, boys will be boys, young men must sow their wild oats, and women must not expect miracles.’ I dare say you don’t, Mrs. Grundy, but it’s true nevertheless. Women work a good many miracles, and I have a persuasion that they may perform even that of raising the standard of manhood by refusing to echo such sayings. Let the boys be boys, the longer the better, and let the young men sow their wild oats if they must. But mothers, sisters, and friends may help to make the crop a small one, and keep many tares from spoiling the harvest, by believing, and showing that they believe, in the possibility of loyalty to the virtues which make men manliest in good women’s eyes. If it is a feminine delusion, leave us to enjoy it while we may, for without it half the beauty and the romance of life is lost, and sorrowful forebodings would embitter all our hopes of the brave, tenderhearted little lads, who still love their mothers better than themselves and are not ashamed to own it.
一些格伦迪夫人很可能会说：“我不相信，男孩就是男孩，年轻人必须播种野燕麦，女人不能期待奇迹。”我敢说你不相信，格伦迪夫人，但这确实是事实。女性创造了很多奇迹，我相信她们甚至可以通过拒绝附和这些说法来提高男子气概的标准。让男孩们成为男孩吧，越长越好，如果必须的话，让年轻人去播种他们的野燕麦。但是，母亲、姐妹和朋友们可以通过相信并表现出她们相信，忠于使男人在好女人中最具男子气概的美德的可能性，帮助使庄稼变小，并防止许多稗子破坏收成。眼睛。如果这是一种女性的错觉，那就让我们尽情享受吧，因为没有它，生活的美丽和浪漫就会消失一半，悲伤的预感会让我们对勇敢、温柔的小伙子们的所有希望感到痛苦，他们仍然爱着自己的孩子。母亲比自己优秀，并且不以拥有它为耻。

Laurie thought that the task of forgetting his love for Jo would absorb all his powers for years, but to his great surprise he discovered it grew easier every day. He refused to believe it at first, got angry with himself, and couldn’t understand it, but these hearts of ours are curious and contrary things, and time and nature work their will in spite of us. Laurie’s heart wouldn’t ache. The wound persisted in healing with a rapidity that astonished him, and instead of trying to forget, he found himself trying to remember. He had not foreseen this turn of affairs, and was not prepared for it. He was disgusted with himself, surprised at his own fickleness, and full of a queer mixture of disappointment and relief that he could recover from such a tremendous blow so soon. He carefully stirred up the embers of his lost love, but they refused to burst into a blaze. There was only a comfortable glow that warmed and did him good without putting him into a fever, and he was reluctantly obliged to confess that the boyish passion was slowly subbsiding into a more tranquil sentiment, very tender, a little sad and resentful still, but that was sure to pass away in time, leaving a brotherly affection which would last unbroken to the end.
劳里本以为忘记对乔的爱的任务会在数年里耗尽他所有的力量，但令他大吃一惊的是，他发现这件事每天都变得越来越容易。他一开始不相信，生自己的气，无法理解，但我们的这些心是好奇的、相反的东西，时间和自然不顾我们的意志而运转。劳里的心不会疼痛。伤口持续愈合，速度之快令他惊讶，他发现自己不再试图忘记，而是试图回忆。他没有预见到事态的发展，也没有做好准备。他对自己感到厌恶，对自己的反复无常感到惊讶，心中充满了一种奇怪的混合着失望和宽慰的感觉，因为他这么快就能从如此巨大的打击中恢复过来。他小心翼翼地搅动失去的爱情的余烬，但它们拒绝燃起熊熊的火焰。只有一种舒适的光芒，温暖了他，对他有好处，没有让他发烧，他不情愿地不得不承认，孩子气的激情正在慢慢消退，变成一种更平静的情绪，非常温柔，仍然有一点悲伤和怨恨，但是这一切肯定会随着时间的流逝而消失，留下的兄弟情谊将持续到最后。

As the word ‘brotherly’ passed through his mind in one of his reveries, he smiled, and glanced up at the picture of Mozart that was before him...
当他的脑海中浮现“兄弟”这个词时，他微笑着，抬头看了一眼面前的莫扎特照片……

‘Well, he was a great man, and when he couldn’t have one sister he took the other, and was happy.’
“嗯，他是一个伟大的人，当他没有一个妹妹时，他就娶了另一个，并且很幸福。”

Laurie did not utter the words, but he thought them, and the next instant kissed the little old ring, saying to himself, ‘No, I won’t! I haven’t forgotten, I never can. I’ll try again, and if that fails, why then...
劳里没有说出这些话，但他心里想了想，然后就亲吻了那枚小小的旧戒指，对自己说：“不，我不会！”我没有忘记，我永远也不能忘记。我会再试一次，如果失败了，为什么……

Leaving his sentence unfinished, he seized pen and paper and wrote to Jo, telling her that he could not settle to anything while there was the least hope of her changing her mind. Couldn’t she, wouldn’t she, and let him come home and be happy? While waiting for an answer he did nothing, but he did it energetically, for he was in a fever of impatience. It came at last, and settled his mind effectually on one point, for Jo decidedly couldn’t and wouldn’t. She was wrapped up in Beth, and never wished to hear the word love again. Then she begged him to be happy with somebody else, but always keep a little corner of his ghart for his loving sister Jo. In a postscript she desired him not to tell Amy that Beth was worse, she was coming home in the spring and there was no need of saddening the remainder of her stay. That would be time enough, please God, but Laurie must write to her often, and not let her feel lonely, homesick or anxious.
话还没说完，他抓起笔和纸写信给乔，告诉她，只要她改变主意的希望微乎其微，他就无法解决任何问题。难道她不能，难道不能让他回家快乐吗？在等待答案的过程中，他什么也没做，但他干得很卖力，因为他非常不耐烦。它终于来了，有效地让他的思想集中在一点上，因为乔坚决不能也不会。她被贝丝迷住了，再也不想听到爱这个词了。然后她恳求他和别人在一起幸福，但永远为他可爱的妹妹乔保留一点他的小角落。在附言中，她希望他不要告诉艾米，贝丝的情况更糟，她将于春天回家，没有必要让她剩下的逗留时间感到悲伤。上帝保佑，时间足够了，但是劳里必须经常给她写信，不要让她感到孤独、想家或焦虑。

‘So I will, at once. Poor little girl, it will be a sad going home for her, I’m afraid.’ And Laurie opened his desk, as if writing to Amy had been the proper conclusion of the sentence left unfinished some weeks before.
‘所以我马上就去。可怜的小女孩，恐怕她回家会很伤心。”劳里打开办公桌，仿佛给艾米写信是几周前未完成的句子的正确结论。

But he did not write the letter that day, for as he rummaged out his best paper, he came across something which changed his purpose. Tumbling about in one part of the desk among bills, passports, and business documents of various kinds were several of Jo’s letters, and in another compartment were three notes from Amy, carefully tied up with one of her blue ribbons and sweetly suggestive of the little dead roses put away inside. with a half-repentant, half-amused expression, Laurie gathered up all Jo’s letters, smoothed, folded, and put them neatly into a small drawer of the desk, stood a minute turning the ring thoughtfully on his finger, then slowly drew it off, laid it with the letters, locked the drawer, and went out to hear High Mass at Saint Stefan’s, feeling as if there had been a funeral, and though not overwhelmed with affliction, this seemed a more proper way to spend the rest of the day than in writing letters to charming young ladies.
但那天他没有写这封信，因为当他翻阅他最好的论文时，他发现了一些改变他目的的东西。桌子的一部分在账单、护照和各种商业文件中翻滚着，里面有乔的几封信，另一个隔间里有艾米写的三张便条，用她的一条蓝色丝带小心翼翼地系着，甜蜜地暗示着这个小孩子。死去的玫瑰收进里面。劳里带着半悔半笑的表情，把乔的所有信收了起来，抚平、折叠起来，整齐地放进桌子的一个小抽屉里，站了一会儿，若有所思地转动着手指上的戒指，然后慢慢地把它取下来。 ，把它和信件放在一起，锁上抽屉，然后出去在圣斯特凡教堂听弥撒，感觉就像参加了一场葬礼，虽然没有被痛苦压倒，但这似乎是度过余下时间的更合适的方式。比给迷人的年轻女士写信更重要。

The letter went very soon, however, and was promptly answered, for Amy was homesick, and confessed it in the most delightfully confiding manner. The correspondence flourished famously, and letters flew to and fro with unfailing regularity all through the early spring. Laurie sold his busts, made allumettes of his opera, and went back to Paris, hoping somebody would arrive before long. He wanted desperately to go to Nice, but would not till he was asked, and Amy would not ask him, for just then she was having little experiences of her own, which made her rather wish to avoid the quizzical eyes of ‘out boy’.
然而，这封信很快就寄出去了，而且很快就得到了答复，因为艾米想家了，并以最令人愉快的倾诉方式承认了这一点。信件往来十分盛行，整个早春，信件不断地来来往往。劳里卖掉了他的半身像，制作了他的歌剧的小品，然后回到了巴黎，希望很快就会有人到达。他非常想去尼斯，但直到有人邀请他才去，而艾米也不会问他，因为此时她自己的经历还很少，这让她宁愿避开“外来男孩”好奇的目光。 。

Fred Vaughn had returned, and put the question to which she had once decided to answer, ‘Yes, thank you,’ but now she said, ‘No, thank you,’ kindly but steadily, for when the time came, her courage failed her, and she found that something more than money and position was needed to satisfy the new longing that filled her heart so full of tender hopes and fears. The words, ‘Fred is a good fellow, but not at all the man I fancied you would ever like,’ and Laurie’s face when he uttered them, kept returning to her as pertinaciously as her own did when she said in look, if not in words, ‘I shall marry for money.’ It troubled her to remember that now, she wished she could take it back, it sounded so unwomanly. She didn’t want Laurie to think her a heartless, worldly creature. She didn’t care to be a queen of society now half so much as she did to be a lovable woman. She was so glad he didn’t hate her for the dreadful things she said, but took them so beautifully and was kinder than ever. His letters were such a comfort, for the home letters were very irregular and not half so satisfactory as his when they did come. It was not only a pleasure, but a duty to answer them, for the poor fellow was forlorn, and needed petting, since Jo persisted in being stonyhearted. She ought to have made an effort and tried to love him. It couldn’t be very hard, many people would be proud and glad to have such a dear boy care for them. But Jo never would act like other girls, so there was nothing to do but be very kind and treat him like a brother.
弗莱德·沃恩回来了，提出了她曾经决定回答的问题：“是的，谢谢你”，但现在她温和而坚定地说道：“不，谢谢你”，因为到了那个时候，她的勇气就消失了。她发现，要满足她内心充满温柔的希望和恐惧的新渴望，需要的不仅仅是金钱和地位。 “弗雷德是个好人，但根本不是我想象中你会喜欢的人”这句话，以及劳里说这句话时的表情，不断地浮现在她的脑海里，就像她在说“如果不是的话”时的表情一样顽固。用言语来说，“我会为了钱而结婚。”她想起现在，她希望自己能收回这句话，这让她很困扰，这听起来太不女性化了。她不想让劳里认为她是一个无情、世俗的人。她现在不再想成为社会女王，而是想成为一个可爱的女人。她很高兴他没有因为她说的那些可怕的话而恨她，而是如此美好地对待它们，并且比以往任何时候都更加友善。他的信真是令人安慰，因为家里的信非常不规则，而且还不如他收到时那么令人满意。回答他们不仅是一种乐趣，而且是一种责任，因为这个可怜的家伙很孤独，需要宠爱，因为乔坚持铁石心肠。她应该努力去爱他。这不会很难，很多人都会为有这样一个可爱的男孩照顾他们而感到自豪和高兴。但乔永远不会表现得像其他女孩一样，所以除了非常友善并像对待兄弟一样对待他之外，别无他法。

If all brothers were treated as well as Laurie was at this period, they would be a much happier race of beings than they are. Amy never lectured now. She asked his opinion on all subjects, she was interested in everything he did, made charming little presents for him, and sent him two letters a week, full of lively gossip, sisterly confidences, and captivating sketches of the lovely scenes about her. As few brothers are complimented by having their letters carried about in their sister’s pockets, read and reread diligently, cried over when short, kissed when long, and treasured carefully, we will not hint that Amy did any of these fond and foolish things. But she certainly did grow a little pale and pensive that spring, lost much of her relish for society, and went out sketching alone a good deal. She never had much to show when she came home, but was studying nature, I dare say, while she sat for hours, with her hands folded, on the terrace at Valrosa, or absently sketched any fancy that occurred to her, a stalwart knight carved on a tomb, a young man asleep in the grass, with his hat over his eyes, or a curly haired girl in gorgeous array, promenading down a ballroom on the arm of a tall gentleman, both faces being left a blur according to the last fashion in art, which was safe but not altogether satisfactory.
如果所有的兄弟都像劳里在这个时期那样受到对待，他们将会是一个比现在幸福得多的种族。艾米现在不再讲课了。她对所有话题都询问他的意见，她对他所做的一切都很感兴趣，为他制作迷人的小礼物，每周给他寄两封信，里面充满了生动的八卦、姐妹般的秘密，以及关于她的可爱场景的迷人素描。由于很少有兄弟会因为把信放在姐姐的口袋里、勤奋地读又读、短时哭泣、长时亲吻、小心珍藏而受到称赞，所以我们不会暗示艾米做过任何这些喜欢和愚蠢的事情。但那年春天，她确实变得有些苍白和忧郁，失去了对社交的大部分兴趣，并且经常独自出去写生。当她回家时，她从来没有什么可以展示的，但我敢说，她正在研究自然，而她双手交叉地坐在瓦尔罗萨的露台上几个小时，或者心不在焉地勾勒出她想到的任何幻想，一个坚定的骑士坟墓上雕刻着一个年轻人在草地上熟睡，帽子遮住了眼睛，或者是一个卷发女孩穿着华丽的衣服，挽着一位高个子绅士的手臂在舞厅里漫步，根据照片，两张脸都模糊了。艺术中的最后一种时尚，虽然安全，但并不完全令人满意。

Her aunt thought that she regretted her answer to Fred, and finding denials useless and explanations impossible, Amy left her to think what she liked, taking care that Laurie should know that Fred had gone to Egypt. That was all, but he understood it, and looked relieved, as he said to himself, with a venerable air . ..
她的姨妈认为她后悔对弗雷德的回答，艾米发现否认毫无用处，解释也不可能，于是让她随心所欲地思考，并注意让劳里知道弗雷德去了埃及。仅此而已，但他明白了，脸上露出如释重负的神色，自言自语，神态庄重。 ..

‘I was sure she would think better of it. Poor old fellow! I’ve been through it all, and I can sympathize.’
“我确信她会考虑得更好。可怜的老家伙！我经历过这一切，我可以同情。

With that he heaved a great sigh, and then, as if he had discharged his duty to the past, put his feet up on the sofa and enjoyed Amy’s letter luxuriously.
说着，他长长地叹了口气，然后，就像是对过去的事情尽了义务一样，把脚放在沙发上，悠闲地欣赏着艾米的信。

While these changes were going on abroad, trouble had come at home. But the letter telling that Beth was failing never reached Amy, and when the next found her at Vevay, for the heat had driven them from Nice in May, and they had travelled slowly to Switzerland, by way of Genoa and the Italian lakes. She bore it very well, and quietly submitted to the family decree that she should not shorten her visit, for since it was too late to say goodbye to Beth, she had better stay, and let absence soften her sorrow. But her heart was very heavy, she longed to be at home, and every day looked wistfully across the lake, waiting for Laurie to come and comfort her.
当这些变化在国外发生时，国内却出现了麻烦。但是，贝丝考试失败的信从未到达艾米手中，当第二封信在韦韦找到她时，因为五月份的炎热天气迫使他们离开了尼斯，他们慢慢地途经热那亚和意大利湖泊前往瑞士。她很好地忍受了这一点，静静地服从了家规，不应该缩短她的访问时间，因为现在要和贝丝告别已经太晚了，她最好留下来，让缺席减轻她的悲伤。但她的心情却很沉重，她渴望回家，每天都若有所思地望着湖对岸，等待劳里过来安慰她。

He did come very soon, for the same mail brought letters to them both, but he was in Germany, and it took some days to reach him. The moment he read it, he packed his knapsack, bade adieu to his fellow pedestrians, and was off to keep his promise, with a heart full of joy and sorrow, hope and suspense.
他确实很快就来了，因为同一封邮件给他们俩带来了信，但他在德国，花了几天时间才到达他那里。读完后，他收拾好背包，告别了同行的行人，出发去履行自己的诺言，心中充满了喜悦和悲伤，希望和悬念。

He knew Vevay well, and as soon as the boat touched the little quay, he hurried along the shore to La Tour, where the Carrols were living en pension. The garcon was in despair that the whole family had gone to take a promenade on the lake, but no, the blonde mademoiselle might be in the chateau garden. If monsier would give himself the pain of sitting down, a flash of time should present her. But monsieur could not wait even a ‘flash of time’, and in the middle of the speech departed to find mademoiselle himself.
他对沃韦很熟悉，船一靠上小码头，他就匆匆沿着岸边赶往拉图尔，卡罗尔夫妇就在那里养老。加尔康很绝望，因为全家人都去湖边散步了，但是不对，金发小姐可能在城堡花园里。如果蒙西尔愿意让自己坐下来感到痛苦，那么一瞬间她就会出现。但先生连“时间一闪”都等不及了，演讲到一半就离开去找小姐了。

A pleasant old garden on the borders of the lovely lake, with chestnuts rustling overhead, ivy climbing everywhere, and the black shadow of the tower falling far across the sunny water. At one corner of the wide, low wall was a seat, and here Amy often came to read or work, or console herself with the beauty all about her. She was sitting here that day, leaning her head on her hand, with a homesick heart and heavy eyes, thinking of Beth and wondering why Laurie did not come. She did not hear him cross the courtyard beyond, nor see him pause in the archway that led from the subterranean path into the garden. He stood a minute looking at her with new eyes, seeing what no one had ever seen before, the tender side of Amy’s character. Everything about her mutely suggested love and sorrow, the blotted letters in her lap, the black ribbon that tied up her hair, the womanly pain and patience in her face, even the little ebony cross at her throat seemed pathetic to Laurie, for he had given it to her, and she wore it as her only ornament. If he had any doubts about the reception she would give him, they were set at rest the minute she looked up and saw him, for dropping everything, she ran to him, exclaiming in a tone of unmistakable love and longing...
可爱的湖边有一座令人愉快的古老花园，头顶上栗子沙沙作响，常春藤到处攀爬，塔楼的黑色影子远远地落在阳光明媚的水面上。宽阔矮墙的一角有一个座位，艾米经常来这里读书或工作，或者用周围的美丽来安慰自己。那天她坐在这里，头靠在手上，怀着想家的心，眼神沉重，想着贝丝，想知道劳里为什么没有来。她没有听到他穿过远处的庭院，也没有看到他在从地下小路通向花园的拱门上停下来。他站了一会儿，用新的眼光看着她，看到了以前从未见过的艾米性格中温柔的一面。她身上的一切无声地暗示着爱与悲伤，她腿上的污迹字母，绑着头发的黑丝带，脸上女人般的痛苦和耐心，甚至她喉咙上的小乌木十字架对劳里来说似乎都很可怜，因为他把它送给她，她把它当作她唯一的装饰品。如果他对她会给他的接待有任何疑问，当她抬起头看到他的那一刻，他们就休息了，因为她放下了一切，跑向他，用明确无误的爱和渴望的语气惊呼……

‘Oh, Laurie, Laurie, I knew you’d come to me!’
“哦，劳里，劳里，我就知道你会来找我！”

I think everything was said and settled then, for as they stood together quite silent for a moment, with the dark head bent down protectingly over the light one, Amy felt that no one could comfort and sustain her so well as Laurie, and Laurie decided that Amy was the only woman in the world who could fill Jo’s place and make him happy. He did not tell her so, but she was not disappointed, for both felt the truth, were satisfied, and gladly left the rest to silence.
我想一切都已经说完了，都已经解决了，因为当他们安静地站在一起一会儿，深色的头低下保护着浅色的头时，艾米觉得没有人能像劳里那样安慰和支持她，劳里决定艾米是世界上唯一可以取代乔的位置并让他快乐的女人。他没有告诉她，但她并不失望，因为两人都感受到了真相，感到满意，并高兴地让剩下的保持沉默。

In a minute Amy went back to her place, and while she dried her tears, Laurie gathered up the scattered papers, finding in the sight of sundry well-worn letters and suggestive sketches good omens for the future. As he sat down beside her, amy felt shy again, and turned rosy red at the recollection of her impulsive greeting.
艾米立刻回到了自己的位置，一边擦干眼泪，劳里一边收拾散落的文件，在各种破旧的信件和暗示性的草图中发现了对未来的好兆头。当他在她身边坐下时，艾米又感到害羞了，一想起她那冲动的问候，脸就涨得通红。

‘I couldn’t help it, I felt so lonely and sad, and was so very glad to see you. It was such a surprise to look up and find you, just as I was beginning to fear you wouldn’t come,’ she said, trying in vain to speak quite naturally.
“我无法控制，我感到如此孤独和悲伤，但很高兴见到你。正当我开始担心你不会来的时候，抬头发现你真是太惊喜了。”她说，试图用自然的语气说话，但徒劳无功。

‘I came the minute I heard. I wish I could say something to comfort you for the loss of dear little Beth, but I can only feel, and...’ He could not get any further, for her too turned bashful all of a sudden, and did not quite know what to say. He longed to lay Amy’s head down on his shoulder, and tell her to have a good cry, but he did not dare, so took her hand instead, and gave it a sympathetic squeeze that was better than words.
‘我一听到就赶来了。我希望我能说点什么来安慰你，因为失去了亲爱的小贝丝，但我只能感觉到，而且……”他无法再说下去，因为她也突然变得害羞，而且不太清楚。说什么。他很想把艾米的头靠在自己的肩上，让她痛痛快快地哭一场，但他不敢，只能握住她的手，同情地握紧她的手，这种感觉胜过言语。

‘You needn’t say anything, this comforts me,’ she said softly. ‘Beth is well and happy, and I mustn’t wish her back, but I dread the going home, much as I long to see them all. We won’t talk about it now, for it makes me cry, and I want to enjoy you while you stay. You needn’t go right back, need you?’
“你什么都不用说，这让我很安慰。”她轻声说道。 “贝丝很好，很开心，我不希望她回来，但我害怕回家，因为我渴望见到他们所有人。我们现在不会谈论它，因为它让我哭泣，而我想在你留下来的时候享受你。你不用马上回去，是吗？

‘Not if you want me, dear.’
“亲爱的，如果你想要我就不会。”

‘I do, so much. Aunt and Flo are very kind, but you seem like one of the family, and it would be so comfortable to have you for a little while.’
“我愿意，非常愿意。阿姨和弗洛都很友善，但你看起来就像是家里的一员，有你在身边一段时间会很舒服。”

Amy spoke and looked so like a homesick child whose heart was full that Laurie forgot his bashfulness all at once, and gave her just what she wanted—the petting she was used to and the cheerful conversation she needed.
艾米说话、看起来都像一个思乡的孩子，心事重重，劳里一下子忘记了他的害羞，给了她她想要的东西——她习惯的抚摸和她需要的愉快的谈话。

‘Poor little soul, you look as if you’d grieved yourself half sick! I’m going to take care of you, so don’t cry any more, but come and walk about with me, the wind is too chilly for you to sit still,’ he said, in the half-caressing, half-commanding way that Amy liked, as he tied on her hat, drew her arm through his, and began to pace up and down the sunny walk under the new-leaved chestnuts. He felt more at ease upon his legs, and Amy found it pleasant to have a strong arm to lean upon, a familiar face to smile at her, and a kind voice to talk delightfully for her alone.
‘可怜的小灵魂，你看起来好像已经伤心得半死了！我会照顾你的，所以你别再哭了，不过来和我一起走走吧，风太冷了，你坐不住。”他用半爱抚半命令的语气说道。他以艾米喜欢的方式系上她的帽子，拉着她的手臂，开始在新叶栗树下的阳光明媚的小路上来回踱步。他感觉双腿更加自在，艾米发现有一个强有力的手臂可以依靠，有一张熟悉的脸对她微笑，有一个友善的声音为她一个人愉快地说话，这一切都是令人愉快的。

The quaint old garden had sheltered many pairs of lovers, and seemed expressly made for them, so sunny and secluded was it, with nothing but the tower to overlook them, and the wide lake to carry away the echo of their words, as it rippled by below. For an hour this new pair walked and talked, or rested on the wall, enjoying the sweet influences which gave such a charm to time and place, and when an unromantic dinner bell warned them away, Amy felt as if she left her burden of lonliness and sorrow behind her in the chateau garden.
古色古香的老花园曾庇护过多少对恋人，似乎就是为他们而生的，阳光明媚，幽静，只有塔楼可以俯瞰他们，宽阔的湖水带走了他们的话语的回声，荡漾着。由下面。在一个小时的时间里，这对新人边走边聊，或者靠在墙上休息，享受着赋予时间和地点如此魅力的甜蜜影响，当不浪漫的晚餐铃声警告他们离开时，艾米感觉好像她摆脱了孤独的负担。在她身后的城堡花园里，还有悲伤。

The moment Mrs. Carrol saw the girl’s altered face, she was illuminated with a new idea, and exclaimed to herself, ‘Now I understand it all—the child has been pining for young Laurence. Bless my heart, I never thought of such a thing!’
卡罗尔夫人一看到女孩变了样的脸，顿时灵机一动，自言自语道：“现在我全明白了——这孩子一直在思念年轻的劳伦斯。”天哪，我从来没有想过这样的事！”

With praiseworthy discretion, the good lady said nothing, and betrayed no sign of enlightenment, but cordially urged Laurie to stay and begged Amy to enjoy his society, for it would do her more good than so much solitude. Amy was a model of docility, and as her aunt was a good deal occupied with Flo, she was left to entertain her friend, and did it with more than her usual success.
这位善良的女士以值得称赞的谨慎态度，一言不发，也没有表现出任何开悟的迹象，而是真诚地敦促劳里留下来，并恳求艾米享受他的陪伴，因为这比这么多的孤独对她有更多好处。艾米是温顺的典范，由于她的姨妈忙于照顾弗洛，她就留下来招待她的朋友，而且比平时更成功。

At Nice, Laurie had lounged and Amy had scolded. At Vevay, Laurie was never idle, but always walking, riding, boating, or studying in the most energetic manner, while Amy admired everything he did and followed his example as far and as fast as she could. He said the change was owing to the climate, and she did not contradict him, being glad of a like excuse for her own recovered health and spirits.
在尼斯，劳里闲逛，艾米则责骂。在沃韦，劳里从不闲着，总是以最有活力的方式散步、骑马、划船或学习，而艾米则钦佩他所做的一切，并尽可能快地效仿他的榜样。他说这种变化是由于气候造成的，她没有反驳他，她很高兴能有一个类似的借口来恢复自己的健康和精神。

The invigorating air did them both good, and much exercise worked wholesome changes in minds as well as bodies. They seemed to get clearer views of life and duty up there among the everlasting hills. The fresh winds blew away desponding doubts, delusive fancies, and moody mists. The warm spring sunshine brought out all sorts of aspiring ideas, tender hopes, and happy thoughts. The lake seemed to wash away the troubles of the past, and the grand old mountains to look benignly down upon them saying, ‘Little children, love one another.’
清新的空气对他们俩都有好处，大量的锻炼对身心都有好处。在永恒的群山之中，他们似乎对生活和责任有了更清晰的认识。清新的风吹走了令人沮丧的怀疑、虚幻的幻想和喜怒无常的迷雾。春天温暖的阳光，带出了各种各样的憧憬、温柔的希望、幸福的思绪。湖水似乎洗去了过去的烦恼，而古老的大山则温柔地俯视着他们，说：“孩子们，彼此相爱吧。”

In spite of the new sorrow, it was a very happy time, so happy that Laurie could not bear to disturb it by a word. It took him a little while to recover from his surprise at the cure of his first, and as he had firmly believed, his last and only love. He consoled himself for the seeming disloyalty by the thought that Jo’s sister was almost the same as Jo’s self, and the conviction that it would have been impossible to love any other woman but Amy so soon and so well. His first wooing had been of the tempestuous order, and he looked back upon ;it as if through a long vista of years with a feeling of compassion blended with regret. He was not ashamed of it, but put it away as one of the bitter-sweet experiences of his life, for which he could be grateful when the pain was over. His second wooing, he resolved, should be as calm and simple as possible. There was no need of having a scene, hardly any need of telling Amy that he loved her, she knew it without words and had given him his answer long ago. It all came about so naturally that no one could complain, and he knew that everybody would be pleased, even Jo. But when our first little passion has been crushed, we are apt to be wary and slow in making a second trial, so Laurie let the days pass, enjoying every hour, and leaving to chance the utterance of the word that would put an end to the first and sweetest part of his new romance.
尽管有新的悲伤，但那是一段非常快乐的时光，快乐得劳里不忍心用一句话来打扰它。他花了一段时间才从对他的初恋、也是他坚信的最后也是唯一的爱情的治愈感到惊讶中恢复过来。他安慰自己，因为乔的妹妹几乎和乔自己一样，而且他坚信除了艾米之外，不可能这么快、这么爱其他女人。他的第一次求爱是激烈的，回想起来，他仿佛经历了漫长的岁月远景，心中充满了怜悯和遗憾。他并不为此感到羞耻，而是将其视为他一生中苦乐参半的经历之一，当痛苦结束后，他会对此心存感激。他决定，他的第二次求爱应该尽可能平静和简单。不需要大场面，几乎不需要告诉艾米他爱她，她不用言语就知道，而且早就给了他答案。这一切发生得如此自然，没有人可以抱怨，他知道每个人都会感到高兴，甚至包括乔。但是，当我们最初的小热情被粉碎时，我们在进行第二次尝试时往往会变得谨慎而缓慢，所以劳里让日子过去，享受每一个小时，并让机会说出那句将结束的词。他的新恋情的第一个也是最甜蜜的部分。

He had rather imagined that the denoument would take place in the chateau garden by moonlight, and in the most graceful and decorus manner, but it turned out exactly the reverse, for the matter was settled on the lake at noonday in a few blunt words. They had been floating about all the morning, from gloomy St. Gingolf to sunny Montreux, with the Alps of Savoy on one side, Mont St. Bernard and the Dent du Midi on the other, pretty Vevay in the valley, and Lausanne upon the hill beyond, a cloudless blue sky overhead, and the bluer lake below, dotted with the picturesque boats that look like white-winged gulls.
他本以为结局会在月光下的城堡花园里以最优雅、最端庄的方式结束，但结果却恰恰相反，因为这件事在中午的湖边几句生硬的话就解决了。他们整个上午都在漂流，从阴沉的圣金戈尔夫到阳光明媚的蒙特勒，一边是萨瓦阿尔卑斯山，一边是圣伯纳德山和南登特，山谷里是美丽的韦韦，山上是洛桑。远处的山，头顶是万里无云的蓝天，下面是更蓝的湖水，点缀着风景如画的小船，看起来像白翅鸥。

They had been talking of Bonnivard, as they glided past Chillon, and of Rousseau, as they looked up at Clarens, where he wrote his Heloise. Neither had read it, but they knew it was a love story, and each privately wondered if it was half as interesting as their own. Amy had been dabbling her hand in the water during the little pause that fell between them, and when she looked up, Laurie was leaning on his oars with an expression in his eyes that made her say hastily, merely for the sake of saying something . .
当他们滑过西庸时，他们一直在谈论博尼瓦尔；当他们抬头望向克拉伦斯时，他们一直在谈论卢梭，卢梭就是在那里写下《爱洛伊兹》的。两人都没有读过它，但他们知道这是一个爱情故事，每个人私下都想知道它是否有自己的一半有趣。在他们之间短暂的停顿期间，艾米一直在把手浸入水中，当她抬起头时，劳里正靠在桨上，他眼中的表情让她急忙说，只是为了说些什么。 。

‘You must be tired. Rest a little, and let me row. It will do me good, for since you came I have been altogether lazy and luxurious.’
'你一定很累了。休息一下，让我划船。这对我有好处，因为自从你来了之后，我变得非常懒惰和奢侈。

‘I’m not tired, but you may take an oar, if you like. There’s room enough, though I have to sit nearly in the middle, else the boat won’t trim,’ returned Laurie, as if he rather liked the arrangment.
“我不累，但如果你愿意的话，你可以划桨。”空间足够了，不过我必须几乎坐在中间，否则船就不会倾斜。”劳里回答道，好像他很喜欢这种安排。

Feeling that she had not mended matters much, Amy took the offered third of a seat, shook her hair over her face, and accepted an oar. She rowed as well as she did many other things, and though she used both hands, and Laurie but one, the oars kept time, and the boat went smoothly through the water.
艾米觉得自己的情况并没有得到多大改善，于是她坐到了三分之一的座位上，把头发甩到脸上，然后接过了桨。她划船就像她做许多其他事情一样，虽然她用双手，而劳里只用一只手，但桨保持着时间，船顺利地在水中行驶。

‘How well we pull together, don’t we?’ said Amy, who objected to silence just then.
“我们合作得多么好，不是吗？”艾米说，她当时反对沉默。

‘So well that I wish we might always pull in the same boat. Will you, Amy?’ very tenderly.
“太好了，我希望我们永远能同舟共济。”艾米，你愿意吗？”非常温柔。

‘Yes, Laurie,’ very low.
“是的，劳里，”声音很低。

Then they both stopped rowing, and unconsciously added a pretty little tableau of human love and happiness to the dissolving views reflected in the lake.
然后他们都停止了划船，不自觉地为湖水的倒影增添了一点人间的爱和幸福的美好画面。

CHAPTER FORTY-TWO
第四十二章

It was easy to promise self-abnegation when self was wrapped up in another, and heart and soul were purified by a sweet example. But when the helpful voice was silent, the daily lesson over, the beloved presence gone, and nothing remained but lonliness and grief, then Jo found her promise very hard to keep. How could she ‘comfort Father and Mother’ when her own heart ached with a ceaseless longing for her sister, how could she ‘make the house cheerful’ when all its light and warmth and beauty seemed to have deserted it when Beth left the old home for the new, and where in all the world could she ‘find some useful, happy work to do’, that would take the place of the loving service which had been its own reward? She tried in a blind, hopeless way to do her duty, secretly rebelling against it all the while, for it seemed unjust that her few joys should be lessened, her burdens made heavier, and life get harder and harder as she toiled along. Some people seemed to get all sunshine, and some all shadow. It was not fair, for she tried more than Amy to be good, but never got any reward, only disappointment, trouble and hard work.
当自我被他人所包围，心灵和灵魂被甜蜜的榜样净化时，很容易许诺自我克制。但当那个乐于助人的声音消失了，每天的课程结束了，心爱的人消失了，除了孤独和悲伤之外什么也没有剩下时，乔发现她的诺言很难兑现。当贝丝离开老家时，当她自己的心因对妹妹的不断思念而痛苦时，她如何才能“安慰父亲和母亲”？当贝丝离开旧家时，当所有的光明、温暖和美丽似乎都抛弃了它时，她如何才能“让这个房子充满欢乐”？对于新事物来说，世界上哪里可以让她“找到一些有用的、快乐的工作去做”，来取代本来就是回报的充满爱心的服务呢？她盲目地、绝望地试图尽自己的职责，却一直在暗自反抗，因为她为数不多的快乐减少了，她的负担越来越重，生活随着她的辛苦而变得越来越艰难，这似乎不公平。有些人似乎浑身都是阳光，而有些人似乎浑身都是阴影。这是不公平的，因为她比艾米更努力地做好事，却从未得到任何回报，只有失望、麻烦和努力。

Poor Jo, these were dark days to her, for something like despair came over her when she thought of spending all her life in that quiet house, devoted to humdrum cares, a few small pleasures, and the duty that never seemed to grow any easier. ‘I can’t do it. I wasn’t meant for a life like this, and I know I shall break away and do something desperate if somebody doesn’t come and help me,’ she said to herself, when her first efforts failed and she fell into the moody, miserable state of mind which often comes when strong wills have to yield to the inevitable.
可怜的乔，这对她来说是黑暗的日子，因为当她想到要在那座安静的房子里度过一生，致力于单调的关怀，一些小小的快乐，以及似乎从未变得更容易的责任时，一种类似绝望的感觉笼罩着她。 ‘我做不到。我不适合过这样的生活，我知道，如果没有人来帮助我，我就会挣脱出来，做一些绝望的事情。”当她的第一次努力失败并陷入喜怒无常时，她对自己说，当坚强的意志不得不屈服于不可避免的事情时，常常会出现悲惨的心态。

But someone did come and help her, though Jo did not recognize her good angels at once because they wore familiar shapes and used the simple spells best fitted to poor humanity. Often she started up at night, thinking Beth called her, and when the sight of the little empty bed made her cry with the bitter cry of unsubmissive sorrow, ‘Oh, Beth, come back! Come back!’ she did not stretch out her yearning arms in vain. For, as quick to hear her sobbing as she had been to hear her sister’s faintest whisper, her mother came to comfort her, not with words only, but the patient tenderness that soothes by a touch, tears that were mute reminders of a greater grief than Jo’s, and broken whispers, more eloquent than prayers, because hopeful resignation went hand-in-hand with natural sorrow. Sacred moments, when heart talked to heart in the silence of the night, turning affliction to a blessing, which chastened grief and strengthned love. Feeling this, Jo’s burden seemed easier to bear, duty grew sweeter, and life looked more endurable, seen from the safe shelter of her mother’s arms.
但确实有人来帮助她，尽管乔并没有立刻认出她的好天使，因为他们穿着熟悉的形状，使用最适合可怜人性的简单咒语。她常常在夜里惊醒，以为贝丝在呼唤她，当她看到那张空荡荡的小床时，她就会因不服从的悲伤而痛苦地哭泣：“哦，贝丝，回来吧！”回来吧！”她伸出渴望的双臂并没有白费。因为，她很快就听到了她的抽泣，就像她听到了姐姐最微弱的耳语一样，她的母亲过来安慰她，不仅仅是用言语，而是通过触摸来安慰她的耐心温柔，泪水无声地提醒着更大的悲伤。比乔的低语，断断续续的低语，比祈祷更有说服力，因为满怀希望的放弃与自然的悲伤齐头并进。神圣的时刻，在寂静的夜晚，心与心对话，化痛苦为祝福，磨炼悲伤，增强爱。感受到这一点，从母亲怀抱的安全庇护所来看，乔的负担似乎更容易承担，责任变得更甜蜜，生活看起来更能忍受。

When aching heart was a little comforted, troubled mind likewise found help, for one day she went to the study, and leaning over the good gray head lifted to welcome her with a tranquil smile, she said very humbly, ‘Father, talk to me as you did to Beth. I need it more than she did, for I’m all wrong.’
当疼痛的心得到一点安慰的时候，烦恼的心灵也得到了帮助，有一天她去了书房，靠着那颗善良的灰色脑袋，抬起来，带着平静的微笑迎接她，她非常谦虚地说：“父亲，请跟我说话”就像你对贝丝所做的那样。我比她更需要它，因为我都错了。

‘My dear, nothing can comfort me like this,’ he answered, with a falter in his voice, and both arms round her, as if he too, needed help, and did not fear to ask for it.
“亲爱的，没有什么能像这样安慰我了，”他回答道，声音有些颤抖，双臂搂住了她，仿佛他也需要帮助，而且并不害怕寻求帮助。

Then, sitting in Beth’s little chair close beside him, Jo told her troubles, the resentful sorrow for her loss, the fruitless efforts that discouraged her, the want of faith that made life look so dark, and all the sad bewilderment which we call despair. She gave him entire confidence, he gave her the help she needed, and both found consolation in the act. For the time had come when they could talk together not only as father and daughter, but as man and woman, able and glad to serve each other with mutual sympathy as well as mutual love. Happy, thoughtful times there in the old study which Jo called ‘the church of one member’, and from which she came with fresh courage, recovered cheerfulness, and a more submissive spirit. For the parents who had taught one child to meet death without fear, were trying now to teach another to accept life without despondency or distrust, and to use its beautiful opportunities with gratitude and power.
然后，乔坐在贝丝旁边靠近他的小椅子上，讲述了她的烦恼，对失去她的悲痛，徒劳的努力让她灰心丧气，缺乏信仰让生活看起来如此黑暗，以及所有我们称之为绝望的悲伤困惑。 。她给了他完全的信心，他给了她所需的帮助，两人都在这一行为中找到了安慰。时机已经到来，他们不仅可以作为父亲和女儿，而且可以作为男人和女人一起交谈，能够并乐意以相互同情和相互爱的方式互相服务。在乔称之为“一个成员的教会”的旧书房里，她度过了快乐、深思熟虑的时光，从那里她带着新的勇气、恢复了快乐和更加顺从的精神。对于那些曾经教导一个孩子无所畏惧地迎接死亡的父母来说，现在他们正试图教导另一个孩子不带沮丧或不信任地接受生活，并怀着感恩和力量利用它美好的机会。

Other helps had Jo—humble, wholesome duties and delights that would not be denied their part in serving her, and which she slowly learned to see and value. Brooms and dishcloths never could be as distasteful as they once had been, for Beth had presided over both, and something of her housewifely spirit seemed to linger around the little mop and the old brush, never thrown away. As she used them, Jo found herself humming the songs Beth used to hum, imitating Beth’s orderly ways, and giving the little touches here and there that kept everything fresh and cozy, which was the first step toward making home happy, though she didn’t know it till Hannah said with an approving squeeze of the hand...
乔还得到了其他帮助——谦卑、健康的职责和快乐，这些在为她服务时不会被否认，她慢慢地学会了看待和重视这些。扫帚和抹布再也不会像以前那样令人厌恶了，因为贝丝一直负责这两件事，她的家庭主妇精神似乎萦绕在小拖把和旧刷子周围，从未扔掉。当她使用它们时，乔发现自己哼着贝丝曾经哼过的歌曲，模仿贝丝井然有序的方式，并到处做一些小改动，让一切保持新鲜和舒适，这是让家庭幸福的第一步，尽管她没有这样做。直到汉娜赞许地握了握手才知道……

‘You thoughtful creeter, you’re determined we shan’t miss that dear lamb ef you can help it. We don’t say much, but we see it, and the Lord will bless you for’t, see ef He don’t.’
“你这个有思想的小家伙，你决心我们不会错过那只亲爱的小羊，只要你能帮得上忙。”我们话不多，但我们看到了，主会为此祝福你，看他是否不会。

As they sat sewing together, Jo discovered how much improved her sister Meg was, how well she could talk, how much she knew about good, womanly impulses, thoughts, and feelings, how happy she was in husband and children, and how much they were all doing for each other.
当他们坐在一起做针线活时，乔发现她的姐姐梅格进步了多少，她的说话能力有多好，她对善良的女性冲动、思想和感情了解了多少，她对丈夫和孩子有多幸福，以及他们对幸福有多么的了解。我们都在为彼此做事。

‘Marriage is an excellent thing, after all. I wonder if I should blossom out half as well as you have, if I tried it?’ said Jo, as she constructed a kite for Demi in the topsy-turvy nursery.
“毕竟，婚姻是一件很棒的事情。 “如果我尝试的话，我想知道我是否应该像你一样开花？”乔一边说，一边在凌乱的苗圃里为黛米制作了一只风筝。

‘It’s just what you need to bring out the tender womanly half of your nature, Jo. You are like a chestnut burr, prickly outside, but silky-soft within, and a sweet kernal, if one can only get at it. Love will make you show your heart one day, and then the rough burr will fall off.’
“这正是你需要展现出你天性中温柔的女性特质的那一半，乔。你就像一颗栗子毛刺，外面带刺，但里面却如丝般柔软，还有一颗甜甜的果仁，只要有人能得到它。爱会让你有一天表现出你的真心，然后粗糙的毛刺就会脱落。

‘Frost opens chestnut burrs, ma‘am, and it takes a good shake to bring them down. Boys go nutting, and I don’t care to be bagged by them,’ returned Jo, pasting away at the kite which no wind that blows would ever carry up, for Daisy had tied herself on as a bob.
“霜冻会打开栗子的毛刺，女士，需要好好摇晃才能把它们弄下来。男孩们都发疯了，我可不想被他们抓到。”乔回答道，一边把那只风筝贴过去，风筝是吹不起来的，因为黛西把自己绑成了鲍勃。

Meg laughed, for she was glad to see a glimmer of Jo’s old spirit, but she felt it her duty to enforce her opinion by every argument in her power, and the sisterly chats were not wasted, especially as two of Meg’s most effective arguments were the babies, whom Jo loved tenderly. Grief is the best opener of some hearts, and Jo’s was nearly ready for the bag. A little more sunshine to ripen the nut, then, not a boy’s impatient shake, but a man’s hand reached up to pick it gently from the burr, and find the kernal sound and sweet. If she suspected this, she would have shut up tight, and been more prickly than ever, fortunately she wasn’t thinking about herself, so when the time came, down she dropped.
梅格笑了，因为她很高兴看到乔旧精神的一丝光芒，但她觉得自己有责任通过她力所能及的每一个论点来强化自己的观点，姐妹间的闲聊并没有浪费，特别是梅格最有效的两个论点是孩子们，乔温柔地爱着他们。悲伤是打开一些心扉的最佳方式，而乔几乎已经准备好接受这个袋子了。再多一点阳光，让坚果成熟，不再是男孩不耐烦的摇晃，而是男人伸出手，轻轻地从毛刺中摘下坚果，发现坚果的声音和甜美。如果她怀疑到了这一点，她一定会闭嘴，而且更加刺痛，幸好她没有考虑自己，到时候就倒下了。

Now, if she had been the heroine of a moral storybook, she ought at this period of her life to have become quite saintly, renounced the world, and gone about doing good in a mortified bonnet, with tracts in her pocket. But, you see, Jo wasn’t a heroine, she was only a struggling human girl like hundreds of others, and she just acted out her nature, being sad, cross, listless, or energetic, as the mood suggested. It’s highly virtuous to say we’ll be good, but we can’t do it all at once, and it takes a long pull, a strong pull, and a pull all together before some of us even get our feet set in the right way. Jo had got so far, she was learning to do her duty, and to feel unhappy if she did not, but to do it cheerfully, ah, that was another thing! She had often said she wanted to do something splendid, no matter how hard, and now she had her wish, for what could be more beautiful than to devote her life to Father and Mother, trying to make home as happy to them as they had to her? And if difficulties were necessary to increase the splendor of the effort, what could be harder for a restless, ambitious girl than to give up her own hopes, plans, and desires, and cheerfully live for others?
现在，如果她是一本道德故事书的女主人公，那么在她生命的这个阶段，她应该变得非常圣洁，放弃尘世，戴着羞愧的帽子，口袋里揣着传单，到处行善。但是，你看，乔不是女英雄，她只是一个像其他数百个一样挣扎的人类女孩，她只是表现出她的本性，悲伤，愤怒，无精打采，或精力充沛，正如情绪所暗示的那样。说我们会做好事是非常有道德的，但我们不可能一下子做到这一切，而且需要长时间的拉动、强力的拉动和共同的拉动，我们中的一些人才能站稳脚跟。方式。乔已经做到了这一步，她正在学习尽自己的职责，如果不尽自己的职责，她会感到不高兴，但要高兴地去做，啊，那是另一回事了！她常说，无论多么艰难，她都要做一些伟大的事情，现在她实现了自己的愿望，因为还有什么比把自己的一生奉献给父亲和母亲，努力让他们的家像他们以前一样幸福更美好的呢？给她？如果困难是增加努力的辉煌所必需的，那么对于一个不安分、雄心勃勃的女孩来说，还有什么比放弃自己的希望、计划和欲望并快乐地为别人而生活更困难的呢？

Providence had taken her at her word. Here was the task, not what she had expected, but better because self had no part in it. Now, could she do it? She decided that she would try, and in her first attempt she found the helps I have suggested. Still another was given her, and she took it, not as a reward, but as a comfort, as Christian took the refreshment afforded by the little arbor where he rested, as he climbed the hill called Difficulty.
上帝相信了她的话。这就是任务，虽然不是她所期望的，但更好，因为自我没有参与其中。现在，她能做到吗？她决定尝试一下，并且在第一次尝试中她就找到了我建议的帮助。还有一个送给了她，她接受了它，不是作为奖励，而是作为一种安慰，就像克里斯蒂安在爬上名为“困难”的小山时，在他休息的小凉亭里提供的茶点一样。

‘Why don’t you write? That always used to make you happy,’ said her mother once, when the desponding fit over-shadowed Jo.
‘你为什么不写？这总是能让你快乐。”有一次，当乔的情绪低落时，她的母亲说道。

‘I’ve no heart to write, and if I had, nobody cares for my things.’
“我没有心写，即使我有，也没有人关心我的东西。”

‘We do. Write something for us, and never mind the rest of the world. Try it, dear. I’m sure it would do you good, and please us very much.’
'我们的确是。为我们写点东西，别介意世界其他地方。尝试一下，亲爱的。我相信这对你有好处，我们也非常高兴。”

‘Don’t believe I can.’ But Jo got out her desk and began to overhaul her half-finished manuscripts.
“不相信我能。”但乔走出办公桌，开始修改她半完成的手稿。

An hour afterward her mother peeped in and there she was, scratching away, with her black pinafore on, and an absorbed expression, which caused Mrs. March to smile and slip away, well pleased with the success of her suggestion. Jo never knew how it happened, but something got into that story that went straight to the hearts of those who read it, for when her family had laughed and cried over it, her father sent it, much against her will, to one of the popular magazines, and to her utter surprise, it was not only paid for, but others requested. Letters from several persons, whose praise was honor, followed the appearance of the little story, newspapers copied it, and strangers as well as friends, admired it. For a small thing it was a great success, and Jo was more astonished than when her novel was commended and condemned all at once.
一小时后，她母亲偷偷地进来，发现她正穿着黑色围裙，全神贯注地抓着东西，这让马奇太太微笑着溜走了，她对自己的建议成功感到非常满意。乔从来不知道这是怎么发生的，但是这个故事里有一些东西直击读它的人的心，因为当她的家人为此欢笑和哭泣时，她的父亲却非常违背她的意愿，把它寄给了其中一位父亲。令她大吃一惊的是，这不仅是付费的，而且还有其他人要求。这个小故事一出现，就有好几个人来信，他们的赞扬是荣誉，报纸转载了它，陌生人和朋友都对它表示赞赏。一件小事却取得了巨大的成功，乔比她的小说同时受到赞扬和谴责更感到惊讶。

‘I don’t understand it. What can there be in a simple little story like that to make people praise it so?’ she said, quite bewildered.
‘我不明白。这么简单的小故事，到底有什么能让人如此称赞呢？”她很困惑地说。

‘There is truth in it, Jo, that’s the secret. Humor and pathos make it alive, and you have found your style at last. You wrote with not thoughts of fame and money, and put your heart into it, my daughter. You have had the bitter, now comes the sweet. Do your best, and grow as happy as we are in your success.’
“这是事实，乔，这就是秘密。”幽默和悲情使它充满活力，你终于找到了自己的风格。女儿，你写的不是为了名利，而是全心全意。经历过苦涩，现在迎来甜蜜。尽你所能，并像我们一样为你的成功感到高兴。”

‘If there is anything good or true in what I write, it isn’t mine. I owe it all to you and Mother and Beth,’ said Jo, more touched by her father’s words than by any amount of praise from the world.
“如果我写的东西有什么好的或真实的，那都不是我的。我把这一切都归功于你们、母亲和贝丝。”乔说，她父亲的话比世人的任何赞美更让她感动。

So taught by love and sorrow, Jo wrote her little stories, and sent them away to make friends for themselves and her, finding it a very charitable world to such humble wanderers, for they were kindly welcomed, and sent home comfortable tokens to their mother, like dutiful children whom good fortune overtakes.
在爱和悲伤的教导下，乔写下了她的小故事，并把它们送去为自己和她交朋友，发现对于这些卑微的流浪者来说这是一个非常仁慈的世界，因为他们受到了亲切的欢迎，并给他们的母亲寄去了舒适的信物，就像幸运降临的孝顺孩子一样。

When Amy and Laurie wrote of their engagement, Mrs. March feared that Jo would find it difficult to rejoice over it, but her fears were soon set at rest, for thought Jo looked grave at first, she took it very quietly, and was full of hopes and plans for ‘the children’ before she read the letter twice. It was a sort of written duet, wherein each glorified the other in loverlike fashion, very pleasant to read and satisfactory to think of, for no one had any objection to make.
当艾米和劳里写下他们订婚的消息时，马奇夫人担心乔会觉得很难为此感到高兴，但她的恐惧很快就消除了，因为想到乔一开始看起来很严肃，她很平静地接受了这件事，并感到很满足。在她读了两遍这封信之前，她讲述了对“孩子们”的希望和计划。这是一种书面的二重唱，其中每个人都以爱情般的方式赞美对方，读起来很愉快，想想也很令人满意，因为没有人提出任何反对。

‘You like it, Mother?’ said Jo, as they laid down the closely written sheets and looked at one another.
“你喜欢吗，妈妈？”当他们放下写得很仔细的床单，互相看着对方时，乔说道。

‘Yes, I hoped it would be so, ever since Amy wrote that she had refused Fred. I felt sure then that something better than what you call the ‘mercenary spirit’ had come over her, and a hint here and there in her letters made me suspect that love and Laurie would win the day.’
“是的，自从艾米写信说她拒绝了弗雷德以来，我希望如此。那时我确信她身上有一种比你所说的‘唯利是图’更好的东西，她信中的一些暗示让我怀疑爱情和劳里会赢得胜利。”

‘How sharp you are, Marmee, and how silent! You never said a worked to me.’
“你多么敏锐，妈咪，又多么沉默！”你从来没有说过对我有用。

‘Mothers have need of sharp eyes and discreet tongues when they have girls to manage. I was half afraid to put the idea into your head, lest you should write and congratulate them before the thing was settled.’
“当母亲们要照顾女儿时，她们需要敏锐的眼睛和谨慎的舌头。我有点不敢把这个想法灌输给你，以免你在事情解决之前写信祝贺他们。

‘I’m not the scatterbrain I was. You may trust me. I’m sober and sensible enough for anyone’s confidante now.’
“我不再是以前那个头脑简单的人了。你可以相信我。我现在已经足够清醒、理智了，可以成为任何人的红颜知己了。”

‘So you are, my dear, and I should have made you mine, only I fancied it might pain you to learn that your Teddy loved someone else.’
“所以你是，亲爱的，我应该让你成为我的，只是我觉得当你知道你的泰迪爱着别人时你可能会感到痛苦。”

‘Now, Mother, did you really think I could be so silly and selfish, after I’d refused his love, when it was freshest, if not best?’
“现在，母亲，在我拒绝了他的爱之后，当我的爱是最新鲜的，如果不是最好的时候，你真的认为我会如此愚蠢和自私吗？”

‘I knew you were sincere then, Jo, but lately I have thought that if he came back, and asked again, you might perhaps, feel like giving another answer. Forgive me, dear, I can’t help seeing that you are very lonely, and sometimes there is a hungry look in your eyes that goes to my heart. So I fancied that your boy might fill the empty place if he tried now.’
“乔，我当时就知道你是真诚的，但最近我想，如果他回来再问一次，你也许会想给出另一个答案。原谅我，亲爱的，我忍不住看到你很孤独，有时你眼里有一种饥饿的眼神直击我的心。所以我想如果你的孩子现在尝试的话，他可能会填补这个空缺。”

‘No, Mother, it is better as it ia, and I’m glad Amy has learned to love him. But you are right in one thing. I am lonely, and perhaps if Teddy had tried again, I might have said ‘Yes’, not because I love him any more, but because I care more to be loved than when he went away.’
“不，妈妈，这样更好，我很高兴艾米学会了爱他。但你在一件事上是对的。我很孤独，也许如果泰迪再尝试一次，我可能会说‘是’，不是因为我不再爱他，而是因为我比他离开时更关心被爱。”

‘I’m glad of that, Jo, for it shows that you are getting on. There are plenty to love you, so try to be satisfied with Father and Mother, sisters and brothers, friends and babies, till the best lover of all comes to give you your reward.’
“我很高兴，乔，因为这表明你进展顺利。有很多人爱你，所以试着对父亲和母亲、兄弟姐妹、朋友和婴儿感到满意，直到最好的爱人来给你回报。

‘Mothers are the best lovers in the world, but I don’t mind whispering to Marmee that I’d like to try all kinds. It’s very curious, but the more I try to satisfy myself with all sorts of natural affections, the more I seem to want. I’d no idea hearts could take in so many. Mine is so elastic, it never seems full now, and I used to be quite contented with my family. I don’t understand it.’
“母亲是世界上最好的爱人，但我不介意对妈咪低声说我想尝试各种尝试。这很奇怪，但我越是试图用各种自然的情感来满足自己，我似乎就越想要。我不知道心能容纳这么多人。我的很有弹性，现在看起来从来没有饱过，而且我以前对我的家人很满意。我不明白。

‘I do.’ And Mrs. March smiled her wise smile, as Jo turned back the leaves to read what Amy said of Laurie.
“我愿意。”当乔翻开书页阅读艾米对劳里的评价时，马奇太太露出了睿智的微笑。

‘It is so beautiful to be loved as Laurie loves me. He isn’t sentimental, doesn’t say much about it, but I see and feel it in all he says and does, and it makes me so happy and so humble that I don’t seem to be the same girl I was. I never knew how good and generous and tender he was till now, for he lets me read his heart, and I find it full of noble impulses and hopes and purposes, and am so proud to know it’s mine. He says he feels as if he ‘could make a prosperous voyage now with me aboard as mate, and lots of love for ballast’. I pray he may, and try to be all he believes me, for I love my gallant captain with all my heart and soul and might, and never will desert him, while God lets us be together. Oh, Mother, I never knew how much like heaven this world could be, when two people love and live for one another!’
“像劳里爱我一样被人爱真是太美好了。他并不多愁善感，也没有说太多，但我在他的一言一行中看到并感受到了这一点，这让我如此快乐和谦虚，我似乎不再是以前的那个女孩了。直到现在我才知道他是多么善良、慷慨和温柔，因为他让我读懂了他的心，我发现它充满了崇高的冲动、希望和目的，并且很自豪知道它是我的。他说，他感觉“现在有了我作为大副，并且对压舱物充满了爱，他就可以进行一次繁荣的航行”。我祈祷他可以，并尽力做到他相信我的一切，因为我全心全意地爱我英勇的船长，永远不会抛弃他，只要上帝让我们在一起。哦，母亲，我从来不知道，当两个人彼此相爱并为彼此而生活时，这个世界会变得多么像天堂！”

‘And that’s our cool, reserved, and worldly Amy! Truly, love does work miracles. How very, very happy they must be!’ And Jo laid the rustling sheets together with a careful hand, as one might shut the covers of a lovely romance, which holds the reader fast till the end comes, and he finds himself alone in the workaday world again.
“这就是我们冷静、保守、世俗的艾米！”确实，爱确实能创造奇迹。他们一定非常非常幸福！”乔小心翼翼地把沙沙作响的床单放在一起，就像一个人可能会合上一部可爱的浪漫故事的封面一样，它紧紧抓住读者直到最后到来，而他发现自己独自一人在又是一个工作日世界。

By-and-by Jo roamed away upstairs, for it was rainy, and she could not walk. A restless spirit possessed her, and the old feeling came again, not bitter as it once was, but a sorrowfully patient wonder why one sister should have all she asked, the other nothing. It was not true, she knew that and tried to put it away, but the natural craving for affection was strong, and Amy’s happiness woke the hungry longing for someone to ‘love with heart and soul, and cling to while God let them be together’. Up in the garret, where Jo’s unquiet wanderings ended stood four little wooden chests in a row, each marked with its owners name, and each filled with relics of the childhood and girlhood ended now for all. Jo glanced into them, and when she came to her own, leaned her chin on the edge, and stared absently at the chaotic collection, till a bundle of old exercise books caught her eye. She drew them out, turned them over, and relived that pleasant winter at kind Mrs. Kirke’s. She had smiled at first, then she looked thoughtful, next sad, and when she came to a little message written in the Professor’s hand, her lips began to tremble, the books slid out of her lap, and she sat looking at the friendly words, as they took a new meaning, and touched a tender spot in her heart.
不久，乔漫步上楼，因为下雨了，她无法行走。一种不安的精神占据了她，旧的感觉又来了，不再像以前那样痛苦，而是一种悲伤而耐心的疑惑，为什么一个姐妹应该得到她所要求的一切，而另一个却什么也没有。这不是真的，她知道这一点，并试图把它收起来，但对感情的自然渴望是强烈的，艾米的幸福唤醒了对有人“全心全意地爱，并在上帝让他们在一起时紧紧抓住”的饥饿渴望。 '。阁楼上，乔不安的徘徊结束了，四个小木箱排成一排，每个都标有主人的名字，每个箱子里都装满了童年和少女时代的遗物，现在一切都结束了。乔看了一眼它们，当她回到自己的房间时，她把下巴靠在边缘上，心不在焉地盯着这些杂乱的东西，直到一捆旧练习本引起了她的注意。她把它们拿出来，翻过来，重温了在好心的柯克太太家度过的那个愉快的冬天。她一开始微笑着，然后看上去若有所思，接着又悲伤起来，当她看到教授手上写的一条小信息时，她的嘴唇开始颤抖，书从她的腿上滑落，她坐在那里看着友好的文字。 ，因为它们有了新的含义，触动了她内心的柔软之处。

‘Wait for me, my friend. I may be a little late, but I shall surely come.’
‘等我一下，我的朋友。我可能会迟到一点，但我一定会来的。

‘Oh, if he only would! So kine, so good, so patient with me always, my dear old Fritz. I didn’t value him half enough when I had him, but now how I should love to see him, for everyone seems going away from me, and I’m all alone.’
‘哦，如果他愿意就好了！我亲爱的老弗里茨，对我总是那么善良，那么善良，那么耐心。当我拥有他的时候，我对他的重视还不够，但现在我多么想见到他，因为每个人似乎都离我而去，而我却孤身一人。

And holding the little paper fast, as if it were a promise yet to be fulfilled, Jo laid her head down on a comfortable rag bag, and cried, as if in opposition to the rain pattering on the roof.
乔紧紧地握着那张小纸，仿佛这是一个尚未兑现的承诺，她把头埋在一个舒适的破布袋上，哭了起来，仿佛在对抗雨水敲打屋顶的声音。

Was it all self-pity, loneliness, or low spirits? Or was it the waking up of a sentiment which had bided its time as patiently as its inspirer? Who shall say?
是自怜、孤独还是情绪低落？或者是一种像其激发者一样耐心等待时机的情绪的苏醒？谁说呢？

CHAPTER FORTY-THREE
第四十三章

Jo was alone in the twilight, lying on the old sofa, looking at the fire, and thinking. It was her favorite way of spending the hour of dusk. No one disturbed her, and she used to lie there on Beth’s little red pillow, planning stories, dreaming dreams, or thinking tender thoughts of the sister who never seemed far away. Her face looked tired, grave, and rather sad, for tomorrow was her birthday, and she was thinking how fast the years went by, how old she was getting, and how little she seemed to have accomplished. Almost twenty-five, and nothing to show for it. Jo was mistaken in that. There was a good deal to show, and by-and-by she saw, and was grateful for it.
暮色中，乔独自一人躺在旧沙发上，望着炉火，陷入沉思。这是她最喜欢的度过黄昏时光的方式。没有人打扰她，她常常躺在贝丝的红色小枕头上，策划故事，做梦，或者思念着似乎从未远离的妹妹。她的脸看起来疲倦、严肃，还有些悲伤，因为明天就是她的生日，她在想岁月过得多快，她已经老了多少，而她似乎却取得了多么少的成就。快二十五岁了，却没什么表现。乔错了。有很多东西可以展示，渐渐地，她看到了，并对此表示感激。

‘An old maid, that’s what I’m to be. A literary spinster, with a pen for a spouse, a family of stories for children, and twenty years hence a morsel of fame, perhaps, when, like poor Johnson, I’m old and can’t enjoy it, solitary, and can’t share it, independent, and don’t need it. Well, I needn’t be a sour saint nor a selfish sinner, and, I dare say, old maids are very comfortable when they get used to it, but...’ And there Jo sighed, as if the prospect was not inviting.
‘老处女，这就是我应该做的。一个文学老处女，配偶有一支笔，孩子们有一个故事家庭，二十年后还有一点名气，也许，当我像可怜的约翰逊一样，老了，不能享受它，孤独，可以不分享，独立，也不需要。好吧，我不需要成为一个尖酸刻薄的圣人，也不需要成为一个自私的罪人，而且，我敢说，老处女习惯了之后会很自在，但是……”乔叹了口气，好像这个前景并不吸引人。 。

It seldom is, at first, and thirty seems the end of all things to five-and-twenty. But it’s not as bad as it looks, and one can get on quite happily if one has something in one’s self to fall back upon. At twenty-five, girls begin to talk about being old maids, but secretly resolve that they never will be. At thirty they say nothing about it, but quietly accept the fact, and if sensible, console themselves by remembering that they have twenty more useful, happy years, in which they may be learning to grow old gracefully. Don’t laugh at the spinsters, dear girls, for often very tender, tragic romances are hidden away in the hearts that beat so quietly under the sober gowns, and many silent sacrifices of youth, health, ambition, love itself, make the faded faces beautiful in God’s sight. Even the sad, sour sisters should be kindly dealt with, because they have missed the sweetest part of life, if for no other reason. And looking at them with compassion, not contempt, girls in their bloom should remember that they too may miss the blossom time. That rosy cheeks don’t last forever, that silver threads will come in the bonnie brown hair, and that, by-and-by, kindness and respect will be as sweet as love and admiration now.
一开始这种情况很少发生，对五岁和二十岁来说，三十岁似乎是一切的终结。但情况并不像看起来那么糟糕，如果一个人有自己可以依靠的东西，一个人就能过得很幸福。二十五岁时，女孩们开始谈论自己是老处女，但私下里却下定决心永远不会成为老处女。三十岁时，他们对此一言不发，只是静静地接受这个事实，如果明智的话，可以通过记住自己还有二十年更有用、更快乐的岁月来安慰自己，在这二十年里，他们可以学会优雅地变老。亲爱的女孩们，不要嘲笑老处女，因为在朴素的长袍下，内心深处往往隐藏着非常温柔、悲惨的浪漫，许多青春、健康、野心、爱情本身的无声牺牲，使得那些褪色的在上帝眼中美丽的面孔。即使是悲伤、酸涩的姐妹也应该被善意地对待，因为如果没有其他原因，她们已经错过了生命中最甜蜜的部分。用同情而不是轻蔑的眼光看待她们，正值花期的女孩应该记住，她们也可能会错过花期。红润的脸颊不会永远持续下去，银色的丝线将融入美丽的棕色头发，渐渐地，仁慈和尊重将像爱和钦佩一样甜蜜。

Gentlemen, which means boys, be courteous to the old maids, no matter how poor and plain and prim, for the only chivalry worth having is that which is the readiest to pay deference to the old, protect the feeble, and serve womankind, regardless of rank, age, or color. Just recollect the good aunts who have not only lectured and fussed, but nursed and petted, too often without thanks, the scrapes they have helped you out of, the tips they have given you from their small store, the stitches the patient old fingers have set for you, the steps the willing old feet have taken, and gratefully pay the dear old ladies the little attentions that women love to receive as long as they live. The bright-eyed girls are quick to see such traits, and will like you all the better for them, and if death, almost the only power that can part mother and son, should rob you of yours, you will be sure to find a tender welcome and maternal cherishing from some Aunt Priscilla, who has kept the warmest corner of her lonely old heart for ‘the best nevvy in the world’.
君子，也就是男孩子，对老处女要有礼貌，无论多么贫穷，多么朴素，多么拘谨，因为唯一值得拥有的骑士精神就是乐于尊敬老人，保护弱者，为妇女服务。等级、年龄或肤色。回想一下那些好阿姨们，她们不仅对你说教、大惊小怪，而且还常常不加感谢地护理和抚摸你，她们帮助你摆脱困境，她们在小店里给你的建议，还有耐心的老手指缝的针。为您设定那些自愿的老脚所走过的脚步，并感激地向亲爱的老太太们表示妇女们只要活着就喜欢接受的一点点关注。眼睛明亮的女孩们很快就能看到这些特质，并且会因为她们而更喜欢你，如果死亡——几乎是分离母子的唯一力量——剥夺了你的生命，你一定会找到一个来自普里西拉阿姨的温柔的欢迎和母性的珍惜，她为“世界上最好的女仆”保留了她孤独的老心最温暖的角落。

Jo must have fallen asleep (as I dare say my reader has during this little homily), for suddenly Laurie’s ghost seemed to stand before her, a substantial, lifelike ghost, leaning over her with the very look he used to wear when he felt a good deal and didn’t like to show it. But, like Jenny in the ballad...
乔一定是睡着了（我敢说我的读者在这个小小的讲道期间已经睡着了），因为突然间，劳里的鬼魂似乎站在她面前，一个实体的、栩栩如生的鬼魂，俯身在她身上，表情就像他以前感到一种恐惧时的表情一样。很好，但不喜欢展示它。但是，就像民谣中的珍妮一样……

She could not think it he,
她想不到他，

and lay staring up at him in startled silence, till he stooped and kissed her. Then she knew him, and flew up, crying joyfully . ..
她躺在床上，惊讶地沉默着，抬头看着他，直到他弯下腰吻了她。然后她认出了他，飞了起来，高兴地哭了。 ..

‘Oh my Teddy! Oh my Teddy!’
‘哦我的泰迪！哦，我的泰迪！

‘Dear Jo, you are glad to see me, then?’
“亲爱的乔，那么你很高兴见到我吗？”

‘Glad! My blessed boy, words can’t express my gladness. Where’s Amy?’ ‘Your mother has got her down at Meg’s. We stopped there by the way, and there was no getting my wife out of their clutches.’
'高兴的！我亲爱的孩子，言语无法表达我的喜悦。艾米在哪儿？” “你妈妈已经把她送到梅格家了。顺便说一句，我们就停在那里了，我的妻子无法摆脱他们的控制。

‘Your what?’ cried Jo, for Laurie uttered those two words with an unconscious pride and satisfaction which betrayed him.
“你的什么？”乔喊道，因为劳里说这两个字时，带着无意识的骄傲和满足，这背叛了他。

‘Oh, the dickens! Now I’ve done it.’ And he looked so guilty that Jo was down on him like a flash.
‘哦，狄更斯！现在我已经做到了。”他看起来很内疚，乔像闪电一样向他低头。

‘You’ve gone and got married!’
“你已经结婚了！”

‘Yes, please, but I never will again.’ And he went down upon his knees, with a penitent clasping of hands, and a face full of mischief, mirth, and triumph.
“是的，拜托，但我再也不会了。”他跪下，双手紧握，悔恨不已，脸上充满了恶作剧、欢笑和胜利。

‘Actually married?’
“真的结婚了吗？”

‘Very much so, thank you.’
“非常感谢，谢谢。”

‘Mercy on us. What dreadful thing will you do next?’ And Jo fell into her seat with a gasp.
‘怜悯我们吧。接下来你会做什么可怕的事情？”乔喘着气倒在座位上。

‘A characteristic, but not exactly complimentary, congratulation,’ returned Laurie, still in an abject attitude, but beaming with satisfaction.
“这是一种典型的恭喜，但并不完全是恭维。”劳里回答道，态度仍然卑微，但脸上洋溢着满意的笑容。

‘What can you expect, when you take one’s breath away, creeping in like a burglar, and letting cats out of bags like that? Get up, you ridiculous boy, and tell me all about it.’
“当你屏住呼吸，像窃贼一样潜入，并像那样把猫从袋子里放出来时，你还能指望什么呢？站起来，你这个可笑的孩子，告诉我这一切。”

‘Not a word, unless you let me come in my old place, and promise not to barricade.’
“什么也别说，除非你让我回到原来的地方，并保证不设置路障。”

Jo laughed at that as she had not done for many a long day, and patted the sofa invitingly, as she said in a cordial tone, ‘The old pillow is up garret, and we don’t need it now. So, come and fess, Teddy.’
乔笑了，她已经好久没有这样做了，并邀请地拍拍沙发，语气亲切地说：“旧枕头在阁楼上，我们现在不需要它了。”所以，来坦白吧，泰迪。”

‘How good it sounds to hear you say ‘Teddy’! No one ever calls me that but you.’ And Laurie sat down with an air of great content.
“听到你说‘泰迪’听起来多好啊！”除了你之外，没有人这么叫我。”劳里一脸满足地坐了下来。

‘What does Amy call you?’
“艾米怎么称呼你？”

‘My lord.’
'我的主。'

‘That’s like her. Well, you look it.’ And Jo’s eye plainly betrayed that she found her boy comelier than ever.
‘这就像她一样。好吧，你看起来就是这样。”乔的眼神明显地表明，她发现她的儿子比以前更加英俊了。

The pillow was gone, but there was a barricade, nevertheless, a natural one, raised by time absence, and change of heart. Both felt it, and for a minute looked at one another as if that invisible barrier cast a little shadow over them. It was gone directly however, for Laurie said, with a vain attempt at dignity...
枕头不见了，但还是有一道路障，尽管如此，这是一种自然的路障，因时间的不在和心意的改变而升起。两人都感觉到了，有一分钟的时间互相对视，仿佛那无形的屏障在他们身上投下了一点阴影。然而，劳里说，它直接消失了，徒劳地试图维护尊严……

‘Don’t I look like a married man and the head of a family?’ ‘Not a bit, and you never will. You’ve grown bigger and bonnier, but you are the same scapegrace as ever.’
“我看起来不像一个已婚男人和一家之主吗？” “一点也不像，而且你永远也不会。”你已经长大了，也更漂亮了，但你还是一如既往的可怜。”

‘Now really, Jo, you ought to treat me with more respect,’ began Laurie, who enjoyed it all immensely.
“现在，乔，你真的应该更加尊重我，”劳里说道，她非常享受这一切。

‘How can I, when the mere idea of you, married and settled, is so irresistibly funny that I can’t keep sober!’ answered Jo, smiling all over her face, so infectiously that they had another laugh, and then settled down for a good talk, quite in the pleasant old fashion.
“一想到你结婚了、安顿下来，我就觉得好笑得无法抗拒，让我无法保持清醒！”乔回答道，脸上挂满了笑容，笑容如此富有感染力，他们又笑了一声，然后就坐下了。以一种愉快的老式方式进行一次愉快的交谈。

‘It’s no use your going out in the cold to get Amy, for they are all coming up presently. I couldn’t wait. I wanted to be the one to tell you the grand surprise, and have ‘first skim’ as we used to say when we squabbled about the cream.’
“你冒着寒冷出去接艾米是没有用的，因为他们马上就来了。”我等不及了。我想成为那个告诉你这个巨大惊喜的人，并像我们为奶油争吵时常说的那样“先撇去”。

‘Of course you did, and spoiled your story by beginning at the wrong end. Now, start right, and tell me how it all happened. I’m pining to know.’
“你当然这么做了，而且从错误的结局开始破坏了你的故事。现在，从正确的角度开始，告诉我这一切是如何发生的。我很想知道。

‘Well, I did it to please Amy,’ began Laurie, with a twinkle that made Jo exclaim...
“好吧，我这样做是为了取悦艾米，”劳里开始说道，眼睛里闪烁着光芒，让乔惊呼道……

‘Fib number one. Amy did it to please you. Go on, and tell the truth, if you can, sir.’
‘小谎言第一。艾米这么做是为了取悦你。继续吧，如果可以的话，说实话，先生。”

‘Now she’s beginning to marm it. Isn’t it jolly to hear her?’ said Laurie to the fire, and the fire glowed and sparkled as if it quite agreed. ‘It’s all the same, you know, she and I being one. We planned to come home with the Carrols, a month or more ago, but they suddenly changed their minds, and decided to pass another winter in Paris. But Grandpa wanted to come home. He went to please me, and I couldn’t let him go along, neither could I leave Amy, and Mrs. Carrol had got English notions about chaperons and such nonsense, and wouldn’t let Amy come with us. So I just settled the difficulty by saying, ‘Let’s be married, and then we can do as we like’.’
“现在她开始修饰它了。”听到她说话不是很高兴吗？”劳里对着火说道，火闪闪发光，好像它完全同意了。 “一切都是一样的，你知道，我和她是一体的。一个月或更长时间前，我们计划和卡罗尔一家一起回家，但他们突然改变了主意，决定在巴黎再过一个冬天。但爷爷想回家。他去取悦我，我不能让他一起去，我也不能离开艾米，而卡罗尔夫人对陪伴和诸如此类的废话有英国人的观念，不让艾米和我们一起去。所以我就解决了这个困难，说：“我们结婚吧，然后我们就可以做我们想做的事了。”

‘Of course you did. You always have things to suit you.’
“你当然这么做了。你总有适合你的东西。

‘Not always.’ And something in Laurie’s voice made Jo say hastily...
“并不总是如此。”劳里声音中的某些东西让乔急忙说道……

‘How did you ever get Aunt to agree?’
“你是怎么让阿姨同意的？”

‘It was hard work, but between us, we talked her over, for we had heaps of good reasons on our side. There wasn’t time to write and ask leave, but you all liked it, had consented to it by-and-by, and it was only ‘taking time by the fetlock’, as my wife says.’
“这是一项艰苦的工作，但我们私下商量了她，因为我们有很多充分的理由。没有时间写信请假，但你们都喜欢它，很快就同意了，正如我妻子所说，这只是“慢慢来”。

‘Aren’t we proud of those two word, and don’t we like to say them?’ interrupted Jo, addressing the fire in her turn, and watching with delight the happy light it seemed to kindle in the eyes that had been so tragically gloomy when she saw them last. ‘A trifle, perhaps, she’s such a captivating little woman I can’t help being proud of her. Well, then Uncle and Aunt were there to play propriety. We were so absorbed in one another we were of no mortal use apart, and that charming arrangement would make everything easy all round, so we did it.’
“我们难道不为这两个词感到自豪吗？难道我们不喜欢说这两个词吗？”乔打断道，她轮到她对火说着，高兴地看着那双眼睛里似乎燃起了幸福的光芒。当她最后一次见到他们时，她的表情悲惨地阴郁。 “也许是一件小事，她是一个如此迷人的小女人，我情不自禁地为她感到骄傲。嗯，然后舅舅舅妈就在那里讲礼数了。我们如此专注于彼此，分开没有任何凡人的用处，而这种迷人的安排会让一切变得容易，所以我们就这么做了。

‘When, where, how?’ asked Jo, in a fever of feminine interest and curiosity, for she could not realize it a particle.
“何时、何地、如何？”乔在女性强烈的兴趣和好奇心中问道，因为她根本无法意识到这一点。

‘Six weeks ago, at the American consul’s, in Paris, a very quiet wedding of course, for even in our happiness we didn’t forget dear little Beth.’
“六周前，在巴黎的美国领事馆，当然，这是一场非常安静的婚礼，因为即使在我们幸福的时候，我们也没有忘记亲爱的小贝丝。”

Jo put her hand in his as he said that, and Laurie gently smoothed the little red pillow, which he remembered well.
当他说这句话的时候，乔把手放在他的手上，劳里轻轻地抚平了那个他记得很清楚的红色小枕头。

‘Why didn’t you let us know afterward?’ asked Jo, in a quieter tone, when they had sat quite still a minute.
“后来你为什么不通知我们？”他们安静地坐了一分钟后，乔用更平静的语气问道。

‘We wanted to surprise you. We thought we were coming directly home, at first, but the dear old gentleman, as soon as we were married, found he couldn’t be ready under a month, at least, and sent us off to spend our honeymoon wherever we liked. Amy had once called Valrosa a regular honeymoon home, so we went there, and were as happy as people are but once in their lives. My faith! Wasn’t it love among the roses!’
“我们想给你一个惊喜。起初我们以为我们会直接回家，但亲爱的老先生，我们一结婚，就发现他至少在一个月内无法准备好，然后送我们去任何我们喜欢的地方度蜜月。艾米曾经称瓦罗萨为一个常规的蜜月之家，所以我们去了那里，并且像人们一样幸福，但一生只有一次。我的信仰！这不是玫瑰花间的爱情吗！

Laurie seemed to forget Jo for a minute, and Jo was glad of it, for the fact that he told her these things so freely and so naturally assured her that he had quite forgiven and forgotten. She tried to draw away her hand, but as if he guessed the thought that prompted the half-involuntary impulse, Laurie held it fast, and said, with a manly gravity she had never seen in him before...
劳里似乎暂时忘记了乔，乔对此感到很高兴，因为他如此自由、如此自然地告诉她这些事情，让她确信他已经完全原谅并忘记了。她试图抽回自己的手，但劳里仿佛猜到了他半不由自主地冲动的想法，紧紧握着她的手，用一种她以前从未在他身上见过的男子气概的严肃说道……

‘Jo, dear, I want to say one thing, and then we’ll put it by forever. As I told you in my letter when I wrote that Amy had been so kind to me, I never shall stop loving you, but the love is altered, and I have learned to see that it is better as it is. Amy and you changed places in my heart, that’s all. I think it was meant to be so, and would have come about naturally, if I had waited, as you tried to make me, but I never could be patient, and so I got a heartache. I was a boy then, headstrong and violent, and it took a hard lesson to show me my mistake. For it was one, Jo, as you said, and I found it out, after making a fool of myself. Upon my word, I was so tumbled up in my mind, at one time, that I didn’t know which I loved best, you or Amy, and tried to love you both alike. But I couldn’t, and when I saw her in Switzerland, everything seemed to clear up all at once. You both got into your right places, and I felt sure that it was well off with the old love before it was on with the new, that I could honestly share my heart between sister Jo and wife Amy, and love them dearly. Will you believe it, and go back to the happy old times when we first knew one another?’
“乔，亲爱的，我想说一件事，然后我们就永远把它搁置起来。正如我在信中告诉你的那样，当我写艾米对我如此友善时，我永远不会停止爱你，但爱已经改变了，我已经学会看到它本来的样子更好。艾米和你在我心中交换了位置，仅此而已。我想事情本来就是这样的，如果我像你试图让我那样等待的话，事情就会自然而然地发生，但我从来没有耐心，所以我感到心痛。那时我还是个孩子，任性而暴力，我接受了惨痛的教训才明白了我的错误。因为这是一个，乔，正如你所说，我在出丑后发现了这一点。说实话，我一度陷入了混乱，以至于我不知道我最爱的是你还是艾米，但我试图以同样的方式爱你们俩。但我做不到，当我在瑞士见到她时，一切似乎一下子就变得清晰起来。你们都进入了正确的位置，我确信在与新爱开始之前，旧爱已经过得很好，我可以诚实地与姐姐乔和妻子艾米分享我的心，并深深地爱着他们。你愿意相信吗，回到我们刚认识时的快乐时光吗？

‘I’ll believe it, with all my heart, but, Teddy, we never can be boy and girl again. The happy old times can’t come back, and we mustn’t expect it. We are man and woman now, with sober work to do, for playtime is over, and we must give up frolicking. I’m sure you feel this. I see the change in you, and you’ll find it in me. I shall miss my boy, but I shall love the man as much, and admire him more, because he means to be what I hoped he would. We can’t be little playmates any longer, but we will be brother and sister, to love and help one another all our lives, won’t we, Laurie?’
“我会全心全意地相信，但是，泰迪，我们再也不能成为男孩和女孩了。过去的快乐时光一去不复返，我们也不能奢望它。我们现在是男人和女人了，有清醒的工作要做，因为娱乐时间已经结束，我们必须放弃嬉戏。我相信你也有这样的感觉。我看到了你的改变，你也会在我身上发现它。我会想念我的孩子，但我也会同样爱这个人，更加钦佩他，因为他会成为我所希望的那样。我们不能再做小玩伴了，但我们将成为兄弟姐妹，一生相爱、互相帮助，不是吗，劳里？

He did not say a word, but took the hand she offered him, and laid his face down on it for a minute, feeling that out of the grave of a boyish passion, there had risen a beautiful, strong friendship to bless them both. Presently Jo said cheerfully, for she didn’t the coming home to be a sad one, ‘I can’t make it true that you children are really married and going to set up housekeeping. Why, it seems only yesterday that I was buttoning Amy’s pinafore, and pulling your hair when you teased. Mercy me, how time does fly!’
他什么也没说，只是握住了她伸出的手，把脸埋在上面一会儿，感觉从孩子气的激情的坟墓中，升起了一种美丽而牢固的友谊，祝福他们俩。不久，乔高兴地说道，因为她回家并不感到悲伤，“我不能说你们孩子们真的结婚了，要开始做家务了。”哎呀，我扣艾米的围裙纽扣、在你取笑时拉你的头发，这一切仿佛就在昨天。怜悯我，时间过得真快！

‘As one of the children is older than yourself, you needn’t talk so like a grandma. I flatter myself I’m a ‘gentleman growed’ as Peggotty said of David, and when you see Amy, you’ll find her rather a precocious infant,’ said Laurie, looking amused at her maternal air.
“其中一个孩子比你大，你不用像奶奶那样说话。”我自以为我是一位“成长中的绅士”，就像佩戈蒂谈到大卫时所说的那样，当你看到艾米时，你会发现她是一个早熟的婴儿。

‘You may be a little older in years, but I’m ever so much older in feeling, Teddy. Women always are, and this last year has been such a hard one that I feel forty.’
“你可能年纪大了一些，但我的感觉却老了很多，泰迪。女人总是如此，去年真是艰难的一年，我感觉自己已经四十岁了。”

‘Poor Jo! We left you to bear it alone, while we went pleasuring. You are older. Here’s a line, and there’s another. Unless you smile, your eyes look sad, and when I touched the cushion, just now, I found a tear on it. You’ve had a great deal to bear, and had to bear it all alone. What a selfish beast I’ve been!’ And Laurie pulled his own hair, with a remorseful look.
可怜的乔！我们让你独自承受，而我们却去取悦。你年纪大了。这是一条线，还有另一条线。除非你微笑，否则你的眼睛看起来很悲伤，当我触摸坐垫时，刚才，我发现上面有一滴泪水。你有很多事情要承受，而且必须独自承受。我是多么自私的野兽啊！”劳里揪着自己的头发，一脸悔恨。

But Jo only turned over the traitorous pillow, and answered, in a tone which she tried to make more cheerful, ‘No, I had Father and Mother to help me, and the dear babies to comfort me, and the thought that you and Amy were safe and happy, to make the troubles here easier to bear. I am lonely, sometimes, but I dare say it’s good for me, and...’
但乔只是把那个叛逆的枕头翻过来，用她试图让语气变得更愉快的语气回答道：“不，我有爸爸和妈妈来帮助我，还有亲爱的宝宝们来安慰我，还有你和艾米。”安全快乐，让这里的烦恼变得更容易承受。有时我很孤独，但我敢说这对我有好处，而且……”

‘You never shall be again,’ broke in Laurie, putting his arm about her, as if to fence out every human ill. ‘Amy and I can’t get on without you, so you must come and teach ‘the children’ to keep house, and go halves in everything, just as we used to do, and let us pet you, and all be blissfully happy and friendly together.’
“你再也不会了。”劳里插话道，用手臂搂住她，仿佛要排除人类的所有疾病。 “艾米和我没有你就活不下去，所以你必须来教‘孩子们’持家，凡事都分担，就像我们以前做的那样，让我们​​宠着你，大家都幸福快乐并友好地在一起。

‘If I shouldn’t be in the way, it would be very pleasant. I begin to feel quite young already, for somehow all my troubles seemed to fly away when you came. You always were a comfort, Teddy.’ And Jo leaned her head on his shoulder, just as she did years ago, when Beth lay ill and Laurie told her to hold on to him.
“如果我不妨碍的话，那就非常愉快了。我开始感觉自己已经很年轻了，因为当你到来时，我所有的烦恼似乎都烟消云散了。泰迪，你一直都是我的安慰。”乔把头靠在他的肩膀上，就像多年前贝丝生病时所做的那样，劳里让她抱紧他。

He looked down at her, wondering if she remembered the time, but Jo was smiling to herself, as if in truth her troubles had all vanished at his coming.
他低头看着她，想知道她是否还记得时间，但乔正在对自己微笑，仿佛她的烦恼在他到来时就全部消失了。

‘You are the same Jo still, dropping tears about one minute, and laughing the next. You look a little wicked now. What is it, Grandma?’
“你还是原来的乔，前一分钟还在流泪，下一分钟就笑了。”你现在看起来有点邪恶。什么事，奶奶？

‘I was wondering how you and Amy get on together.’
“我想知道你和艾米相处得怎么样。”

‘Like angels!’
“像天使一样！”

‘Yes, of course, but which rules?’
“是的，当然，但是有什么规则呢？”

‘I don’t mind telling you that she does now, at least I let her think so, it pleases her, you know. By-and-by we shall take turns, for marriage, they say, halves one’s rights and doubles one’s duties.’
‘我不介意告诉你她现在确实这么做了，至少我让她这么认为，这让她高兴，你知道。不久我们就会轮流，因为他们说，婚姻使一个人的权利减半，而一个人的义务加倍。

‘You’ll go on as you begin, and Amy will rule you all the days of your life.’
“你会像开始一样继续下去，艾米将统治你一生。”

‘Well, she does it so imperceptibly that I don’t think I shall mind much. She is the sort of woman who knows how to rule well. In fact, I rather like it, for she winds one round her finger as softly and prettily as a skein of silk, and makes you feel as if she was doing you a favor all the while.’
“好吧，她做的如此不易察觉，我想我不会太介意。她是那种懂得如何做好统治的女人。事实上，我很喜欢这样，因为她用一根手指绕着一根手指，就像一束丝绸一样柔软漂亮，让你感觉好像她一直在帮你一个忙。

‘That ever I should live to see you a henpecked husband and enjoying it!’ cried Jo, with uplifted hands.
“但愿我能活着看到你是一个怕老婆的丈夫，并且享受这样的生活！”乔举起双手喊道。

It was good to see Laurie square his shoulders, and smile with masculine scorn at that insinuation, as he replied, with his ‘high and mighty’ air, ‘Amy is too well-bred for that, and I am not the sort of man to submit to it. My wife and I respect ourselves and one another too much ever to tyrannize or quarrel.’
很高兴看到劳里挺起肩膀，对这种暗示露出男性般的轻蔑微笑，他带着“高高在上”的神气回答说，“艾米太有教养了，不适合这样做，而我不是那种人”服从它。我和我的妻子非常尊重自己和彼此，不会施暴或争吵。”

Jo like that, and thought the new dignity very becoming, but the boy seemed changing very fast into the man, and regret mingled with her pleasure.
乔喜欢那样，觉得新的尊严非常合适，但男孩似乎很快就变成了男人，遗憾与她的快乐交织在一起。

‘I am sure of that. Amy and you never did quarrel as we used to. She is the sun and I the wind, in the fable, and the sun managed the man best, you remember.’
“我确信这一点。艾米和你从来没有像以前那样吵过架。在寓言中，她是太阳，我是风，你记得，太阳最能驾驭男人。

‘She can blow him up as well as shine on him,’ laughed Laurie. ‘such a lecture as I got at Nice! I give you my word it was a deal worse than any or your scoldings, a regular rouser. I’ll tell you all about it sometime, she never will, because after telling me that she despised and was ashamed of me, she lost her heart to the despicable party and married the good-for-nothing.’
“她既可以把他炸死，也可以照耀他，”劳里笑着说。 “我在尼斯听过这样的讲座！我向你保证，这比任何人的责骂都更糟糕，是一种常规的煽动者。以后我会告诉你的，她永远不会，因为在告诉我她鄙视我、以我为耻之后，她就对卑鄙的一方失去了心，嫁给了废物。

‘What baseness! Well, if she abuses you, come to me, and I’ll defend you.’
‘多么卑鄙啊！好吧，如果她虐待你，就来找我，我会保护你。

‘I look as if I needed it, don’t I?’ said Laurie, getting up and striking an attitude which suddenly changed from the imposing to the rapturous, as Amy’s voice was heard calling, ‘Where is she? Where’s my dear old Jo?’
“我看起来好像需要它，不是吗？”劳里站起来，态度突然从威严变成了欣喜若狂，这时听见艾米的声音在呼唤：“她在哪儿？”我亲爱的老乔在哪里？

In trooped the whole family, and everyone was hugged and kissed all over again, and after several vain attempts, the three wanderers were set down to be looked at and exulted over. Mr. Laurence, hale and hearty as ever, was quite as much improved as the others by his foreign tour, for the crustiness seemed to be nearly gone, and the old-fashioned courtliness had received a polish which made it kindlier than ever. It was good to see him beam at ‘my children’, as he called the young pair. It was better still to see Amy pay him the daughterly duty and affection which completely won his old heart, and best of all, to watch Laurie revolve about the two, as if never tired of enjoying the pretty picture they made.
全家人都来了，每个人都再次拥抱和亲吻，经过几次徒劳的尝试后，三个流浪者被放下来让人们观看并欣喜若狂。劳伦斯先生一如既往地精神矍铄，在出国旅行后，他的精神状态和其他人一样有了很大的改善，因为他的粗鲁似乎几乎消失了，而老式的彬彬有礼也得到了磨练，变得比以前更加和蔼可亲。很高兴看到他对着“我的孩子们”微笑，他这样称呼这对年轻的夫妇。更好的是看到艾米向他尽了女儿般的责任和感情，这完全赢得了他旧日的心，最重要的是，看着劳里围绕着这两个人，仿佛乐此不疲地欣赏他们所描绘的美丽画面。

The minute she put her eyes upon Amy, Meg became conscious that her own dress hadn’t a Parisian air, that young Mrs. Mofffat would be entirely eclipsed by young Mrs. Laurence, and that ‘her ladyship’ was altogether a most elegant and graceful woman. Jo thought, as she watched the pair, ‘How well they look together! I was right, and Laurie has found the beautiful, accomplished girl who will become his home better than clumsy old Jo, and be a pride, not a torment to him.’ Mrs. March and her husband smiled and nodded at each other with happy faces, for they saw that their youngest had done well, not only in worldly things, but the better wealth of love, confidence, and happiness.
当她的目光落在艾米身上的那一刻，梅格就意识到自己的衣服没有巴黎的气质，年轻的莫法特夫人在年轻的劳伦斯夫人面前会完全黯然失色，而“她的夫人”完全是一个最优雅和最优雅的人。优雅的女人。乔看着这一对，心想：“他们在一起看起来多么般配啊！”我是对的，劳里已经找到了这个美丽、多才多艺的女孩，她会比笨手笨脚的老乔更好地成为他的家，成为他的骄傲，而不是折磨。”马奇夫人和她的丈夫微笑着，高兴地互相点头。因为他们看到自己最小的孩子不仅在世俗的事情上做得很好，而且在爱、信心和幸福方面也拥有更好的财富。

For Amy’s face was full of the soft brightness which betokens a peaceful heart, her voice had a new tenderness in it, and the cool, prim carriage was changed to a gentle dignity, both womanly and winning. No little affectations marred it, and the cordial sweetness of her manner was more charming than the new beauty or the old grace, for it stamped her at once with the unmistakable sign of the true gentlewoman she had hoped to become.
因为艾米的脸上充满了柔和的光彩，预示着一颗平静的心，她的声音里多了一种新的温柔，冷漠拘谨的举止变成了温柔的尊严，既女人味又迷人。没有丝毫的矫揉造作破坏了她的气质，她的态度亲切而甜美，比新的美丽或旧的优雅更迷人，因为它立即给她留下了她希望成为的真正淑女的明确标志。

‘Love has done much for our little girl,’ said her mother softly.
“爱为我们的小女孩做了很多事情，”她的母亲轻声说道。

‘She has had a good example before her all her life, my dear,’ Mr. March whispered back, with a loving look at the worn face and gray head beside him.
“亲爱的，她一生都是一个好榜样，”马奇先生低声回答道，充满爱意地看着他身边那张疲惫的脸和灰白的脑袋。

Daisy found it impossible to keep her eyes off her ‘pitty aunty’, but attached herself like a lap dog to the wonderful chatelaine full of delightful charms. Demi paused to consider the new relationship before he compromised himself by the rash acceptance of a bribe, which took the tempting form of a family of wooden bears from Berne. A flank movement produced an unconditional surrender, however, for Laurie knew where to have him.
黛西无法将目光从她的“可怜的阿姨”身上移开，但她像哈巴狗一样依附在充满可爱魅力的美妙腰带上。黛米停下来考虑了新的关系，然后他草率地接受了贿赂，而贿赂的形式是来自伯尔尼的木熊家族的诱人形式。然而，侧翼运动导致了无条件投降，因为劳里知道他在哪里。

‘Young man, when I first had the honor of making your acquaintance you hit me in the face. Now I demand the satisfaction of a gentleman,’ and with that the tall uncle proceeded to toss and tousle the small nephew in a way that damaged his philosophical dignity as much as it delighted his boyish soul.
“年轻人，当我第一次有幸认识你时，你就打了我的脸。现在我要求一位绅士的满足。”说完，高个子叔叔就开始对小侄子进行折腾和弄乱，这种方式损害了他的哲学尊严，同时也让他孩子气的灵魂感到高兴。

‘Blest if she ain’t in silk from head to foot? Ain’t it a relishin’ sight to see her settin’ there as fine as a fiddle, anch a happy procession as filed away into the little dining room! Mr. March proudly escorted Mrs. Laurence. Mrs. March as proudly leaned on the arm of ‘my son’. The old gentleman took Jo, with a whispered, ‘You must be my girl now,’ and a glance at the empty corner by the fire, that made Jo whisper back, ‘I’ll try to fill her place, sir.
“要是她从头到脚不是穿着丝绸就好了？”看到她像小提琴一样优雅地坐在那里，列队列队进入小餐厅，这不是一件令人愉快的景象吗！马奇先生自豪地护送劳伦斯夫人。马奇夫人自豪地靠在“我儿子”的手臂上。老绅士拉着乔，低声说道：“你现在一定是我的女孩了。”他看了一眼火边空荡荡的角落，乔低声回应道：“我会尽力填补她的空缺，先生。”

The twins pranced behind, feeling that the millennium was at hand, for everyone was so busy with the newcomers that they were left to revel at their own sweet will, and you may be sure they made the most of the opportunity. Didn’t they steal sips of tea, stuff gingerbread ad libitum, get a hot biscuit apiece, and as a crowning trespass, didn’t they each whisk a captivating little tart into their tiny pockets, there to stick and crumble treacherously, teaching them that both human nature and a pastry are frail? Burdened with the guilty consciousness of the sequestered tarts, and fearing that Dodo’s sharp eyes would pierce the thin disguise of cambric and merino which hid their booty, the little sinners attached themselves to ‘Dranpa’, who hadn’t his spectacles on. Amy, who was handed about like refreshments, returned to the parlor on Father Laurence’s arm. The others paired off as before, and this arrangement left Jo companionless. She did not mind it at the minute, for she lingered to answer Hannah’s eager inquiry.
双胞胎在后面欢快地走着，感觉千禧年即将到来，因为每个人都忙着照顾新来的人，以至于他们只能陶醉在自己的甜蜜之中，你可以肯定他们充分利用了这个机会。他们不是偷喝了几口茶，随意塞了姜饼，每人拿了一块热饼干，作为一种最高的侵犯，他们不是每个人都把一个迷人的小馅饼放进了他们的小口袋里，在那里奸诈地粘在一起并弄碎，教他们人性和糕点都是脆弱的吗？这些小罪人背负着被隔离的妓女的负罪感，又担心多多锐利的眼睛会刺穿隐藏战利品的细麻布和美利奴羊毛薄薄的伪装，这些小罪人把自己依附在没有戴眼镜的“卓巴”身上。艾米像茶点一样被递来，挽着劳伦斯神父的胳膊回到客厅。其他人像以前一样配对，这样的安排让乔孤身一人。她当时并不介意，因为她一直在回答汉娜急切的询问。

‘Will Miss Amy ride in her coop (coupe), and use all them lovely silver dishes that’s stored away over yander?’
“艾米小姐会骑在她的笼子里（轿跑车），并使用所有存放在yander上的可爱的银盘吗？”

‘Shouldn’t wonder if she drove six white horses, ate off gold plate, and wore diamonds and point lace every day. Teddy thinks nothing too good for her,’ returned Jo with infinite satisfaction.
“不应该怀疑她是否骑着六匹白马，吃的是金盘，每天都戴着钻石和点花边。泰迪认为没有什么对她太好的了。”乔带着无限满足地回答道。

‘No more there is! Will you have hash or fishballs for breakfast?’ asked Hannah, who wisely mingled poetry and prose.
‘没有了！ “早餐吃土豆泥还是鱼丸？”汉娜问道，她明智地将诗歌和散文结合在一起。

‘I don’t care.’ And Jo shut the door, feeling that food was an uncongenial topic just then. She stood a minute looking at the party vanishing above, and as Demi’s short plaid legs toiled up the last stair, a sudden sense of lonliness came over her so strongly that she looked about her with dim eyes, as if to find something to lean upon, for even Teddy had deserted her. If she had known what birthday gift was coming every minute nearer and nearer, she would not have said to herself, ‘I’ll weep a little weep when I go to bed. It won’t do to be dismal now.’ Then she drew her hand over her eyes, for one of her boyish habits was never to know where her handkerchief was, and had just managed to call up a smile when there came a knock at the porch door.
“我不在乎。”乔关上门，觉得此时食物是一个不太合适的话题。她站了一会儿，看着队伍在头顶上消失，当黛米的格子短腿费力地走上最后一级楼梯时，一种突然的孤独感袭上她的心头，她用昏暗的眼睛环顾四周，仿佛要找到什么可以依靠的东西。 ，因为连泰迪都抛弃了她。如果她知道生日礼物越来越近，她就不会对自己说：“我上床睡觉时会哭一会儿。”现在再忧郁可不行了。”然后她用手捂住眼睛，因为她孩子气的习惯之一就是永远不知道自己的手帕在哪里，她刚刚勉强挤出一丝笑容，就有人敲门了。门廊的门。

She opened with hospitable haste, and started as if another ghost had come to surprise her, for there stood a tall bearded gentleman, beaming on her from the darkness like a midnight sun.
她热情好客地匆忙打开门，吃了一惊，仿佛另一个鬼魂来了，让她大吃一惊，因为那里站着一位高大、留着胡须的绅士，他从黑暗中向她发出午夜太阳般的光芒。

‘Oh, Mr. Bhaer, I am so glad to see you!’ cried Jo, with a clutch, as if she feared the night would swallow him up before she could get him in.
“哦，巴尔先生，我很高兴见到你！”乔紧紧地抓着他喊道，仿佛她担心在把他带进来之前，夜色会把他吞没。

‘And I to see Miss Marsch, but no, you haf a party,’ and the Professor paused as the sound of voices and the tap of dancing feet came down to them.
“我要去见马什小姐，但是不，你们要举办一个聚会。”当说话声和舞步的脚步声传到他们身边时，教授停了下来。

‘No, we haven’t, only the family. My sister and friends have just come home, and we are all very happy. Come in, and make one of us.’
“不，我们没有，只有家人。我姐姐和朋友们刚刚回家，我们都很高兴。进来吧，成为我们中的一员。

Though a very social man, I think Mr. Bhaer would have gone decorously away, and come again another day, but how could he, when Jo shut the door behind him, and bereft him of his hat? Perhaps her face had something to do with it, for she forgot to hide her joy at seeing him, and showed it with a frankness that proved irresistible to the solitary man, whose welcome far exceeded his boldest hopes.
虽然巴尔先生是一个非常善于交际的人，但我认为巴尔先生会体面地离开，改天再来，但是当乔关上他身后的门，并剥夺了他的帽子时，他怎么能呢？也许与她的脸有关，因为她忘记了隐藏见到他时的喜悦，并以一种坦率的方式表现出来，这对这个孤独的男人来说是不可抗拒的，他的欢迎远远超出了他最大胆的希望。

‘If I shall not be Monsieur de Trop, I will so gladly see them all. You haf been ill, my friend?’
“如果我不是德特罗普先生，我会很高兴见到他们所有人。你生病了吗，我的朋友？

He put the question abruptly, for, as Jo hung up his coat, the light fell on her face, and he saw a change in it.
他突然提出了这个问题，因为当乔挂起外套时，光线落在她的脸上，他看到了她的脸发生了变化。

‘Not ill, but tired and sorrowful. We have had trouble since I saw you last.’
“没有病，只是疲倦和悲伤。自从我上次见到你以来，我们就遇到了麻烦。”

‘Ah, yes, I know. My heart was sore for you when I heard that,’ And he shook hands again, with such a sympathetic face that Jo felt as if no comfort could equal the look of the kind eyes, the grasp of the big, warm hand.
‘啊，是的，我知道。当我听到这个消息时，我的心为你感到痛苦。”他再次握手，脸上充满同情，让乔觉得似乎没有什么安慰能比得上那双慈祥的眼睛的表情，以及那只温暖的大手的抓握。

‘Father, Mother, this is my friend, Professor Bhaer,’ she said, with a face and tone of such irrepressible pride and pleasure that she might as well have blown a trumpet and opened the door with a flourish.
“爸爸，妈妈，这是我的朋友，巴尔教授，”她说道，脸上的表情和语气都充满了难以抑制的骄傲和愉悦，简直就像是吹了一声小号，用华丽的动作打开了门。

If the stranger had any doubts about his reception, they were set at rest in a minute by the cordial welcome he received. Everyone greeted him kindly, for Jo’s sake at first, but very soon they liked him for his own. They could not help it, for he carried the talisman that opens all hearts, and these simple people warmed to him at once, feeling even the more friendly because he was poor. For poverty enriches those who live above it, and is a sure passport to truly hospitable spirits. Mr. Bhaer sat looking about him with the air of a traveler who knocks at a strange door, and when it opens, finds himself at home. The children went to him like bees to a honeypot, and establishing themselves on each knee, proceeded to captivate him by rifling his pockets, pulling his beard, and investigating his watch, with juvenile audacity. The women telegraphed their approval to one another, and Mr. March, feeling that he had got a kindred spirit, opened his choicest stores for his guest’s benefit, while silent John listened and enjoyed the talk, but said not a word, and Mr. Laurence found it impossible to go to sleep.
如果陌生人对他的接待有任何疑问，他们会因为他受到的热情欢迎而立即平静下来。每个人一开始都是为了乔而友好地向他打招呼，但很快他们就喜欢上了他。他们没办法，因为他带着打开所有人心扉的护身符，这些单纯的人们立刻对他产生了热情，因为他贫穷而更加友好。因为贫穷使生活在贫困之上的人们变得富有，并且是真正热情好客的通行证。巴尔先生坐在那里环顾四周，就像一个敲响一扇陌生门的旅行者，当门打开时，他发现自己回到了家。孩子们像蜜蜂接近蜜罐一样走到他身边，双膝跪地，以少年般的大胆，掏他的口袋，拉他的胡子，检查他的手表，以此来迷惑他。女人们互相表达了他们的赞同，马奇先生觉得自己志趣相投，为客人的利益开设了他最好的商店，而沉默的约翰听着并享受着谈话，但一言不发，而马奇先生则为他的客人的利益开设了他最好的商店。劳伦斯发现无法入睡。

If Jo had not been otherwise engaged, Laurie’s behavior would have amused her, for a faint twinge, not of jealousy, but something like suspicion, caused that gentleman to stand aloof at first, and observe the newcomer with brotherly circumspection. But it did not last long. He got interested in spite of himself, and before he knew it, was drawn into the circle. For Mr. Bhaer talked well in this genial atmosphere, and did himself justice. He seldom spoke to Laurie, but he looked at him often, and a shadow would pass across his face, as if regretting his own lost youth, as he watched the young man in his prime. Then his eyes would turn to Jo so wistfully that she would have surely answered the mute inquiry if she had seen it. But Jo had her own eyes to take care of, and feeling that they could not be trusted, she prudently kept them on the little sock she was knitting, like a model maiden aunt.
如果乔没有别的事，劳里的行为会让她觉得好笑，因为一丝轻微的刺痛，不是出于嫉妒，而是出于怀疑，让这位绅士一开始站在一边，以兄弟般的谨慎态度观察着这位新来者。但这种情况并没有持续多久。他不由自主地产生了兴趣，不知不觉间就被拉进了圈子里。因为巴尔先生在这种和蔼可亲的气氛中谈得很好，而且也很公正。他很少和劳里说话，但他经常看着他，看着这个风华正茂的年轻人，他的脸上会掠过一丝阴影，仿佛在为自己失去的青春而后悔。然后他的目光会转向乔，如此渴望，如果她看到了，她肯定会回答这个无声的询问。但乔有自己的眼睛要照顾，她觉得自己的眼睛不值得信任，所以她小心翼翼地把眼睛放在她正在编织的小袜子上，就像一个模特少女阿姨一样。

A stealthy glance now and then refreshed her like sips of fresh water after a dusty walk, for the sidelong peeps showed her several propitious omens. Mr. Bhaer’s face had lost the absent-minded expression, and looked all alive with interest in the present moment, actually young and handsome, she thought, forgetting to compare him with Laurie, as she usually did strange men, to their great detriment. Then he seemed quite inspired, though the burial customs of the ancients, to which the conversation had strayed, might not be considered an exhilarating topic. Jo quite glowed with triumph when Teddy got quenched in an argument, and thought to herself, as she watched her father’s absorbed face, ‘How he would enjoy having such a man as my Professor to talk with every day!’ Lastly, Mr. Bhaer was dressed in a new suit of black, which made him look more like a gentleman than ever. His bushy hair had been cut and smoothly brushed, but didn’t stay in order long, for in exciting moments, he rumpled it up in the droll way he used to do, and Jo liked it rampantly erect better than flat, because she thought it gave his fine forehead a Jove-like aspect. Poor Jo, how she did glorify that plain man, as she sat knitting away so quietly, yet letting nothing escape her, not even the fact that Mr. Bhaer actually had gold sleeve-buttons in his immaculate wristbands.
时不时地偷偷地看一眼，就像在尘土飞扬的散步后喝一口淡水一样，让她精神焕发，因为斜视向她展示了一些吉祥的预兆。巴尔先生的脸上不再是心不在焉的表情，看上去对当下充满了兴趣，实际上年轻又英俊，她想，忘记了将他与劳里进行比较，就像她通常比较陌生人一样，这对他们来说是极大的伤害。然后他似乎很受启发，尽管谈话所涉及的古人的丧葬习俗可能不被认为是一个令人兴奋的话题。当泰迪在一场争吵中平息时，乔洋溢着胜利的光芒，当她看着父亲全神贯注的脸时，她心里想：“有一个像我的教授这样的人每天和他交谈，他会多么高兴啊！”最后，巴尔先生一身新的黑色西装，让他看起来比以往更有绅士风度了。他浓密的头发被剪掉了，梳理得顺滑，但没能保持整齐，因为在激动人心的时刻，他会像以前那样滑稽地把头发弄乱，乔更喜欢直立的头发，而不是平直的头发，因为她认为这使他美丽的前额显得像天神一样。可怜的乔，当她如此安静地坐着织毛衣时，她是如何赞美那个平凡的男人的，却没有放过任何事情，甚至没有放过巴尔先生完美无瑕的腕带上实际上有金色袖扣的事实。

‘Dear old fellow! He couldn’t have got himself up with more care if he’d been going a-wooing,’ said Jo to herself, and then a sudden thought born of the words made her blush so dreadfully that she had to drop her ball, and go down after it to hide her face.
‘亲爱的老家伙！如果他是在求爱的话，他就不可能更小心地站起来了，”乔自言自语道，然后突然想到这句话，让她脸红得可怕，不得不放弃她的球，然后跟着它下去以隐藏她的脸。

The maneuver did not succeed as well as she expected, however, for though just in the act of setting fire to a funeral pyre, the Professor dropped his torch, metaphorically speaking, and made a dive after the little blue ball. Of course they bumped their heads smartly together, saw stars, and both came up flushed and laughing, without the ball, to resume their seats, wishing they had not left them.
然而，这个动作并没有像她预期的那样成功，因为尽管只是在点燃火葬柴堆的过程中，教授扔掉了火把，打个比方来说，然后向那个蓝色的小球扑去。当然，他们聪明地把头撞在一起，看到了星星，然后两人都红着脸笑着走上来，没有球，回到座位上，希望他们没有离开。

Nobody knew where the evening went to, for Hannah skillfully abstracted the babies at an early hour, nodding like two rosy poppies, and Mr. Laurence went home to rest. The others sat round the fire, talking away, utterly regardless of the lapse of time, till Meg, whose maternal was impressed with a firm conviction that Daisy had tumbled out of be, and Demi set his nightgown afire studying the structure of matches, made a move to go.
没人知道这个晚上去了哪里，因为汉娜很早就熟练地吸引了婴儿，像两朵玫瑰色的罂粟花一样点着头，劳伦斯先生回家休息了。其他人围坐在火边，聊天，完全不顾时间的流逝，直到梅格，她的母亲对黛西已经失去理智的坚定信念印象深刻，黛米点燃了他的睡衣，研究火柴的结构，一动就走。

‘We must have our sing, in the good old way, for we are all together again once more,’ said Jo, feeling that a good shout would be a safe and pleasant vent for the jubilant emotions of her soul.
“我们必须以古老的方式唱歌，因为我们又在一起了，”乔说，她觉得一声好的喊声可以安全而愉快地宣泄她灵魂中的欢乐情绪。

They were not all there. But no one found the words thougtless or untrue, for Beth still seemed among them, a peaceful presence, invisible, but dearer than ever, since death could not break the household league that love made disoluble. The little chair stood in its old place. The tidy basket, with the bit of work she left unfinished when the needle grew ‘so heavy’, was still on its accustomed shelf. The beloved instrument, seldom touched now had not been moved, and above it Beth’s face, serene and smiling, as in the early days, looked down upon them, seeming to say, ‘Be happy. I am here.’
他们并不全都在那里。但没有人觉得这句话是轻率的或不真实的，因为贝丝似乎仍然在他们中间，一个平静的存在，看不见，但比以往任何时候都更珍贵，因为死亡无法打破爱情所造成的家庭联盟。小椅子站在原来的地方。整洁的篮子仍然放在原来的架子上，里面装着她在针变得“如此沉重”时留下的一些未完成的工作。这件心爱的乐器，现在很少被碰触，没有动过，上面是贝丝的脸，平静而微笑，一如早年，俯视着他们，似乎在说：“快乐吧。”我在这里。'

‘Play something, Amy. Let them hear how much you have improved,’ said Laurie, with pardonable pride in his promising pupil.
‘玩点东西吧，艾米。让他们听听你进步了多少。”劳里说道，对他有前途的学生感到自豪。

But Amy whispered, with full eyes, as she twirled the faded stool, ‘Not tonight, dear. I can’t show off tonight.’
但艾米一边转动褪色的凳子，一边睁大眼睛小声说道：“亲爱的，今晚不行。”今晚我不能炫耀。

But she did show something better than brilliancy or skill, for she sang Beth’s songs with a tender music in her voice which the best master could not have taught, and touched the listener’s hearts with a sweeter power than any other inspiration could have given her. The room was very still, when the clear voice failed suddenly at the last line of Beth’s favorite hymn. It was hard to say...
但她确实表现出了比才华和技巧更好的东西，因为她用温柔的声音演唱了贝丝的歌曲，这是最好的大师无法教的，并以比任何其他灵感所能给予她的更甜美的力量打动听众的心。当贝丝最喜欢的赞美诗的最后一句清晰的声音突然消失时，房间里非常安静。很难说...

Earth hath no sorrow that heaven cannot heal;
人间无有天不能医的悲哀；

and Amy leaned against her husband, who stood behind her, feeling that her welcome home was not quite perfect without Beth’s kiss.
艾米靠在她身后的丈夫身上，觉得如果没有贝丝的吻，她回家的欢迎就不那么完美了。

‘Now, we must finish with Mignon’s song, for Mr. Bhaer sings that,’ said Jo, before the pause grew painful. And Mr. Bhaer cleared his throat with a gratified ‘Hem!’ as he stepped into the corner where Jo stood, saying...
“现在，我们必须以米尼翁的歌来结束，因为巴尔先生唱的是这首歌，”乔说道，在停顿变得痛苦之前。巴尔先生清了清嗓子，满意地“嗯！”走到了乔站的角落，说道……

‘You will sing with me? We go excellently well together.’
‘你愿意和我一起唱歌吗？我们合作得非常好。

A pleasing fiction, by the way, for Jo had no more idea of music than a grasshopper. But she would have consented if he had proposed to sing a whole opera, and warbled away, blissfully regardless of time and tune. It didn’t much matter, for Mr. Bhaer sang like a true German, heartily and well, and Jo soon subsided into a subdued hum, that she might listen to the mellow voice that seemed to sing for her alone.
顺便说一句，这是一部令人愉快的小说，因为乔对音乐的了解就像一只蚱蜢一样。但如果他提议唱一整部歌剧，然后不管时间和曲调，幸福地唱着歌走开，她一定会同意的。这并不重要，因为巴尔先生的歌声就像一个真正的德国人，衷心而动听，乔很快就变成了低沉的嗡嗡声，这样她就可以聆听那似乎只为她而唱的柔和声音。

Know’st thou the land where the citron blooms, used to be the Professor’s favorite line, for ‘das land’ meant Germany to him, but now he seemed to dwell, with peculiar warmth and melody, upon the words...
你知道柚子花开的地方吗？这曾经是教授最喜欢的台词，因为“das land”对他来说意味着德国，但现在他似乎以一种独特的温暖和旋律，沉浸在这句话上……

There, oh there, might I with thee,
那里，哦那里，我可以和你在一起吗？

O, my beloved, go
哦，我的爱人，走吧

and one listener was so thrilled by the tender invitation that she longed to say she did know the land, and would joyfully depart thither whenever he liked.
一位听众对这个温柔的邀请感到非常兴奋，她渴望说她确实了解这片土地，并且只要他愿意，她就会高兴地离开那里。

The song was considered a great success, and the singer retired covered with laurels. But a few minutes afterward, he forgot his manners entirely, and stared at Amy putting on her bonnet, for she had been introduced simply as ‘my sister’, and on one had called her by her new name since her came. He forgot himself still further when Laurie said, in his most gracious manner, at parting...
这首歌被认为取得了巨大成功，这位歌手也带着桂冠退休了。但几分钟后，他完全忘记了自己的礼貌，盯着艾米戴上帽子，因为她被简单地介绍为“我的妹妹”，而且自从她来后就用她的新名字称呼她。当劳里以最亲切的方式告别时，他更加忘记了自己……

‘My wife and I are very glad to meet you, sir. Please remember that there is always a welcome waiting for you over the way.’
“我和我的妻子很高兴见到您，先生。请记住，一路上总会有热情的人在等着您。”

Then the Professor thanked him so heartily, and looked so suddenly illuminated with satisfaction, that Laurie thought him the most delightfully demonstrative old fellow he ever met.
然后教授衷心地感谢他，脸上突然露出满意的表情，劳里认为他是他见过的最令人愉快、外向的老家伙。

‘I too shall go, but I shall gladly come again, if you will gif me leave, dear madame, for a little business in the city will keep me here some days.’
“我也要去，但如果您愿意让我离开，我会很高兴再来的，亲爱的夫人，因为城里的一点生意会让我留在这里几天。”

He spoke to Mrs. March, but he looked at Jo, and the mother’s voice gave as cordial an assent as did the daughter’s eyes, for Mrs. March was not so blind to her children’s interest as Mrs. Moffat supposed.
他对马奇太太说话，但他看着乔，母亲的声音像女儿的眼睛一样亲切地表示同意，因为马奇太太并不像莫法特太太想象的那样对孩子们的兴趣视而不见。

‘I suspect that is a wise man,’ remarked Mr. March, with placid satisfaction, from the hearthrug, after the last guest had gone.
“我怀疑他是个聪明人。”最后一位客人走后，马奇先生在炉边地毯上平静地满意地说。

‘I know he is a good one,’ added Mrs. March, with decided approval, as she wound up the clock.
“我知道他是个好人，”马奇夫人一边给时钟上发条，一边表示赞同。

‘I thought you’d like him,’ was all Jo said, as she slipped away to her bed.
“我以为你会喜欢他。”乔溜到床上时只说了这么一句话。

She wondered what the business was that brought Mr. Bhaer to the city, and finally decided that he had been appointed to some great honor, somewhere, but had been too modest to mention the fact. If she had seen his face when, safe in his own room, he looked at the picture of a severe and rigid young lady, with a good deal of hair, who appeared to be gazing darkly into futurity, it might have thrown some light upon the subject, especially when he turned off the gas, and kissed the picture in the dark.
她想知道巴尔先生来到这座城市到底是为了什么，最后认定他是在某个地方被任命为享有某种巨大荣誉的，但他太谦虚了，没有提及这一事实。如果她能看到他的脸，当他安全地在自己的房间里，看着照片上一位严肃而僵硬的年轻女士，头发浓密，似乎在黑暗地凝视着未来时，也许会有所启发。主题，尤其是当他关掉煤气，并在黑暗中亲吻照片时。

CHAPTER FORTY-FOUR
第四十四章

‘Please, Madam Mother, could you lend me my wife for half an hour? The luggage has come, and I’ve been making hay of Amy’s Paris finery, trying to find some things I want,’ said Laurie, coming in the next day to find Mrs. Laurence sitting in her mother’s lap, as if being made ‘the baby’ again.
“妈妈，请问您能借我妻子半个小时吗？”行李已经来了，我一直在整理艾米的巴黎服饰，试图找到一些我想要的东西，”劳里说。第二天，她回来发现劳伦斯太太坐在她母亲的腿上，就像被制造出来一样。”宝宝又来了。

‘Certainly. Go, dear, I forgot that you have any home but this.’ And Mrs. March pressed the white hand that wore the wedding ring, as if asking pardon for her maternal covetousness.
'当然。走吧，亲爱的，我忘了你除了这里还有别的家。”马奇太太按着戴着结婚戒指的白手，仿佛在请求原谅她母性的贪婪。

‘I shouldn’t have come over if I could have helped it, but I can’t get on without my little woman any more than a...’
“如果我能帮上忙的话，我就不应该过来，但没有我的小女人，我就活不下去了，就像……”

‘Weathercock can without the wind,’ suggested Jo, as he paused for a simile. Jo had grown quite her own saucy self again since Teddy came home.
“风向标可以没有风，”乔停下来打了一个比喻，建议道。自从泰迪回家后，乔又变得很俏皮了。

‘Exactly, for Amy keeps me pointing due west most of the time, with only an occasional whiffle round to the south, and I haven’t had an easterly spell since I was married. Don’t know anything about the north, but am altogether salubrious and balmy, hey, my lady?’
“没错，因为艾米大部分时间都让我指向正西，只有偶尔向南转，而自从结婚以来，我就没有遇到过东向的情况。对北方一无所知，但我完全健康和温和，嘿，我的女士？

‘Lovely weather so far. I don’t know how long it will last, but I’m not afraid of storms, for I’m learning how to sail my ship. Come home, dear, and I’ll find your bootjack. I suppose that’s what you are rummaging after among my things. Men are so helpless, Mother,’ said Amy, with a matronly air, which delighted her husband.
“到目前为止天气很好。我不知道这会持续多久，但我不怕暴风雨，因为我正在学习如何驾驶我的船。回家吧，亲爱的，我会找到你的靴子。我想这就是你在我的东西里翻找的东西。男人都是如此无助，妈妈。”艾米带着主妇的神情说道，这让她的丈夫很高兴。

‘What are you going to do with yourselves after you get settled?’ asked Jo, buttoning Amy’s cloak as she used to button her pinafores.
“安顿下来之后，你打算做什么？”乔问，一边为艾米扣上斗篷，就像她以前扣围裙一样。

‘We have our plans. We don’t mean to say much about them yet, because we are such very new brooms, but we don’t intend to be idle. I’m going into business with a devotion that shall delight Grandfather, and prove to him that I’m not spoiled. I need something of the sort to keep me steady. I’m tired of dawdling, and mean to work like a man.’
‘我们有我们的计划。我们还不想对他们说太多，因为我们是新人，但我们也不打算闲着。我将以一种让祖父高兴的奉献精神投入生意，并向他证明我没有被宠坏。我需要某种东西来让我保持稳定。我厌倦了磨磨蹭蹭，打算像个男人一样工作。

‘And Amy, what is she going to do?’ asked Mrs. March, well pleased at Laurie’s decision and the energy with which he spoke.
“艾米，她要做什么？”马奇夫人问道，她对劳里的决定和他说话时的精力非常满意。

‘After doing the civil all round, and airing our best bonnet, we shall astonish you by the elegant hospitalities of our mansion, the brilliant society we shall draw about us, and the beneficial influence we shall exert over the world at large. That’s about it, isn’t it, Madame Recamier?’ asked Laurie with a quizzical look at Amy.
“在完成了全面的民事工作并展示了我们最好的帽子之后，我们将通过我们宅邸的优雅接待、我们将在我们周围建立的辉煌社会以及我们将在整个世界上发挥的有益影响而让您感到惊讶。就是这样，不是吗，雷卡米尔夫人？”劳里疑惑地看着艾米，问道。

‘Time will show. Come away, Impertinence, and don’t shock my family by calling me names before their faces,’ answered Amy, resolving that there should be a home with a good wife in it before she set up a salon as a queen of society.
'时间会证明。走开，无礼的人，别在我的家人面前辱骂我，让他们震惊。”艾米回答道，她决心在开一家沙龙成为社会女王之前，应该有一个有好妻子的家。

‘How happy those children seem together!’ observed Mr. March, finding it difficult to become absorbed in his Aristotle after the young couple had gone.
“这些孩子在一起看起来多么幸福啊！”马奇先生观察到，在这对年轻夫妇走后，他发现自己很难再全神贯注于他的亚里士多德思想了。

‘Yes, and I think it will last,’ added Mrs. March, with the restful expression of a pilot who has brought a ship safely into port.
“是的，而且我认为这种情况会持续下去。”马奇夫人补充道，脸上带着平静的表情，就像一名将船安全驶入港口的领航员一样。

‘I know it will. Happy Amy!’ And Jo sighed, then smiled brightly as Professor Bhaer opened the gate with an impatient push.
“我知道会的。快乐的艾米！”乔叹了口气，然后当巴尔教授不耐烦地推开门时，他露出了灿烂的笑容。

Later in the evening, when his mind had been set at rest about the bootjack, Laurie said suddenly to his wife, ‘Mrs. Laurence.’
晚上晚些时候，当劳里对脱衣事件的思绪平静下来时，突然对他的妻子说：“劳里太太。”劳伦斯。”

‘My Lord!’
'我的主！'

‘That man intends to marry our Jo!’
“那个男人想娶我们的乔！”

‘I hope so, don’t you, dear?’
“我希望如此，不是吗，亲爱的？”

‘Well, my love, I consider him a trump, in the fullest sense of that expressive word, but I do wish he was a little younger and a good deal richer.’
“好吧，亲爱的，我认为他是王牌，从这个富有表现力的词的最完整意义上来说，但我确实希望他年轻一点，更富有一点。”

‘Now, Laurie, don’t be too fastidious and worldly-minded. If they love one another it doesn’t matter a particle how old they are nor how poor. Women never should marry for money...’ Amy caught herself up short as the words escaped her, and looked at her husband, who replied, with malicious gravity...
‘现在，劳里，别太挑剔和世俗了。如果他们彼此相爱，那么无论他们多大，多么贫穷，都无关紧要。女人永远不应该为了钱而结婚……”艾米突然愣住了，她看着她的丈夫，丈夫带着恶毒的严肃回答道……

‘Certainly not, though you do hear charming girls say that they intend to do it sometimes. If my memory serves me, you once thought it your duty to make a rich match. That accounts, perhaps, for your marrying a good-for-nothing like me.’
“当然不是，尽管你确实听到迷人的女孩说她们有时会这么做。如果我没记错的话，你曾经认为你有责任撮合一场丰盛的婚姻。也许这就是为什么你嫁给了像我这样的无用之人。

‘Oh, my dearest boy, don’t, don’t say that! I forgot you were rich when I said ‘Yes’. I’d have married you if you hadn’t a penny, and I sometimes wish you were poor that I might show how much I love you.’ And Amy, who was very dignified in public and very fond in private, gave convincing proofs of the truth of her words.
‘噢，我最亲爱的孩子，别、别这么说！当我说“是”时，我忘了你很有钱。如果你没有一分钱我就嫁给你了，有时我希望你很穷，这样我才能表明我有多爱你。”而公开场合非常有尊严，私下里又非常恩爱的艾米给出了令人信服的证据。她的话的真实性。

‘You don’t really think I am such a mercenary creature as I tried to be once, do you? It would break my heart if you didn’t believe that I’d gladly pull in the same boat with you, even if you had to get your living by rowing on the lake.’2
‘你不会真的认为我是一个像我曾经试图成为的那样的唯利是图的生物吧？如果你不相信我会很乐意与你同舟共济，即使你必须靠在湖上划船谋生，我也会心碎。”2

‘Am I an idiot and a brute? How could I think so, when you refused a richer man for me, and won’t let me give you half I want to now, when I have the right? Girls do it every day, poor things, and are taught to think it is their only salvation, but you had better lessons, and though I trembled for you at one time, I was not disappointed, for the daughter was true to the mother’s teaching. I told Mamma so yesterday, and she looked as glad and grateful as if I’d given her a check for a million, to be spent in charity. You are not listening to my moral remarks, Mrs. Laurence.’ And Laurie paused, for Amy’s eyes had an absent look, though fixed upon his face.
‘我是个白痴和畜生吗？当你拒绝为我找一个更富有的人，并且不让我给你我现在想要的一半时，当我有权利的时候，我怎么会这么想呢？女孩们每天都这样做，可怜的事情，并被教导认为这是她们唯一的救赎，但你有更好的教训，虽然我一度为你颤抖，但我并不失望，因为女儿忠实于母亲的教导。昨天我告诉了妈妈，她看上去既高兴又感激，就好像我给了她一张一百万张支票，用于慈善事业。你没有在听我的道德言论，劳伦斯夫人。”劳里停了下来，因为艾米的眼睛虽然盯着他的脸，但眼神却心不在焉。

‘Yes, I am, and admiring the mple in your chin at the same time. I don’t wish to make you vain, but I must confess that I’m prouder of my handsome husband than of all his money. Don’t laugh, but your nose is such a comfort to me.’ And Amy softly caressed the well-cut feature with artistic satisfaction.
“是的，我是，同时欣赏你下巴上的皱纹。我不想让你虚荣，但我必须承认，我为我英俊的丈夫感到骄傲，而不是他所有的钱。别笑，但你的鼻子对我来说真是一种安慰。”艾米带着艺术般的满足感轻轻地抚摸着那轮廓分明的鼻子。

Laurie had received many compliments in his life, but never one that suited him better, as he plainly showed though he did laugh at his wife’s peculiar taste, while she said slowly, ‘May I ask you a question, dear?’
劳里一生中收到过很多赞美，但从来没有一个更适合他，因为他清楚地表明，尽管他确实嘲笑妻子的奇特品味，而她却慢慢地说：“亲爱的，我可以问你一个问题吗？”

‘Of course, you may.’
“当然可以。”

‘Shall you care if Jo does marry Mr. Bhaer?’
“你关心乔是否嫁给了巴尔先生吗？”

‘Oh, that’s the trouble is it? I thought there was something in the dimple that didn’t quite suit you. Not being a dog in the manger, but the happiest fellow alive, I assure you I can dance at Jo’s wedding with a heart as light as my heels. Do you doubt it, my darling?’
‘噢，这就是麻烦所在吧？我觉得这个酒窝里有些东西不太适合你。我不是马槽里的狗，而是世上最幸福的人，我向你保证，我可以在乔的婚礼上跳舞，心情就像我的脚跟一样轻盈。你怀疑吗，亲爱的？

Amy looked up at him, and was satisfied. Her little jealous fear vanished forever, and she thanked him, with a face full of love and confidence.
艾米抬头看着他，心里很满意。她小小的嫉妒的恐惧永远消失了，她感谢他，脸上充满了爱和自信。

‘I wish we could do something for that capital old Professor. Couldn’t we invent a rich relation, who shall obligingly die out there in Germany, and leave him a tidy little fortune?’ said Laurie, when they began to pace up and down the long drawing room, arm in arm, as they were fond of doing, in memory of the chateau garden.
“我希望我们能为那位伟大的老教授做点什么。”我们难道不能发明一个富有的亲戚吗？他会很乐意地死在德国，并给他留下一笔可观的小财产吗？”当他们开始在长长的客厅里手挽手地踱来踱去时，劳里说。最爱做的事，是为了纪念城堡花园。

‘Jo would find us out, and spoil it all. She is very proud of him, just as he is, and said yesterday that she thought poverty was a beautiful thing.’
“乔会发现我们，然后破坏这一切。”她为他感到非常自豪，就像他一样，昨天她说她认为贫穷是一件美丽的事情。

‘Bless her dear heart! She won’t think so when she has a literary husband, and a dozen little professors and professorins to support. We won’t interfere now, but watch our chance, and do them a good turn in spite of themselves. I owe Jo for a part of my education, and she believes in people’s paying their honest debts, so I’ll get round her in that way.’
‘祝福她亲爱的心！当她有一个文学丈夫，还有十几位小教授和教授要供养时，她就不会这么想了。我们现在不会干涉，但要留意机会，不由自主地为他们做点好事。我欠乔一部分的教育，她相信人们会诚实地偿还债务，所以我会用这种方式绕过她。

‘How delightful it is to be able to help others, isn’t it? That was always one of my dreams, to have the power of giving freely, and thanks to you, the dream has come true.’
‘能够帮助别人是多么令人高兴的事，不是吗？拥有自由奉献的力量一直是我的梦想之一，感谢你，梦想成真了。

‘Ah, we’ll do quantities of good, won’t we? There’s one sort of poverty that I particularly like to help. Out-and-out beggars get taken care of, but poor gentle folks fare badly, because they won’t ask, and people don’t dare to offer charity. Yet there are a thousand ways of helping them, if one only knows how to do it so delicately that it does not offend. I must say, I like to serve a decayed gentleman better than a blarnerying beggar. I suppose it’s wrong, but I do, though it is harder.’
‘啊，我们会做很多好事，不是吗？我特别喜欢帮助一种贫困。不折不扣的乞丐得到了照顾，但可怜的绅士却过得很糟糕，因为他们不会开口请求，人们也不敢施舍。然而，有一千种方法可以帮助他们，只要你知道如何巧妙地做到这一点，以免冒犯他人。我必须说，我更喜欢侍奉一位腐朽的绅士，而不是侍奉一个喋喋不休的乞丐。我认为这是错误的，但我确实这样做，尽管这更难。

‘Because it takes a gentleman to do it,’ added the other member of the domestic admiration society.
“因为这需要绅士才能做到，”国内仰慕协会的另一位成员补充道。

‘Thank you, I’m afraid I don’t deserve that pretty compliment. But I was going to say that while I was dawdling about abroad, I saw a good many talented young fellows making all sorts of sacrifices, and enduring real hardships, that they might realize their dreams. Splendid fellows, some of them, working like heros, poor and friendless, but so full of courage, patience, and ambition that I was ashamed of myself, and longed to give them a right good lift. Those are people whom it’s a satisfaction to help, for if they’ve got genius, it’s an honor to be allowed to serve them, and not let it be lost or delayed for want of fuel to keep the pot boiling. If they haven’t, it’s a pleasure to comfort the poor souls, and keep them from despair when they find it out.’
“谢谢你，恐怕我不值得这么漂亮的赞美。但我想说的是，我在国外混日子的时候，看到很多有才华的年轻人为了实现自己的梦想，做出了各种牺牲，吃尽了苦头。他们中的一些人是出色的人，他们像英雄一样工作，贫穷而没有朋友，但充满勇气、耐心和雄心，我为自己感到羞愧，渴望为他们提供良好的帮助。帮助这些人是一种满足感，因为如果他们有天才，那么能够为他们服务就是一种荣幸，而不是因为缺乏燃料而让他们失去或延迟。如果他们没有，我们很乐意安慰这些可怜的灵魂，让他们在发现后不再绝望。”

‘Yes, indeed, and there’s another class who can’t ask, and who suffer in silence. I know something of it, for I belonged to it before you made a princess of me, as the king does the beggarmaid in the old story. Ambitious girls have a hard time, Laurie, and often have to see youth, health, and precious opportunities go by, just for want of a little help at the right minute. People have been very kind to me, and whenever I see girls struggling along, as we used to do, I want to put out my hand and help them, as I was helped.’
“是的，确实如此，还有另一类人无法提出要求，只能默默承受痛苦。我知道一些事情，因为在你把我变成公主之前我就属于它，就像古老故事中国王对待乞丐一样。劳里，雄心勃勃的女孩过得很艰难，常常不得不看到青春、健康和宝贵的机会流逝，只是因为在适当的时候需要一点帮助。人们对我非常友善，每当我看到女孩们像我们以前那样挣扎时，我就想伸出援手帮助她们，就像我得到了帮助一样。

‘And so you shall, like an angel as you are!’ cried Laurie, resolving, with a glow of philanthropic zeal, to found and endow an institution for the express benefit of young women with artistic tendencies. ‘Rich people have no right to sit down and enjoy themselves, or let their money accumulate for others to waste. It’s not half so sensible to leave legacies when one dies as it is to use the money wisely while alive, and enjoy making one’s fellow creatures happy with it. We’ll have a good time ourselves, and add an extra relish to our own pleasure by giving other people a generous taste. Will you be a little Dorcal, going about emptying a big basket of comforts, and filling it up with good deeds?’
“所以你就应该像天使一样！”劳里喊道，带着慈善热忱，决心建立并资助一个机构，专门为具有艺术倾向的年轻女性提供福利。 “富人没有权利坐下来享受生活，也没有权利让自己的钱积累起来供别人挥霍。一个人死后留下遗产，还不如在活着时明智地使用这笔钱，并享受让自己的同胞感到高兴的一半明智。我们自己会度过一段愉快的时光，并通过给予他人慷慨的品味来为自己的快乐增添额外的乐趣。你愿意做一个小多卡人，清空一大篮子的舒适，然后用善行装满它吗？

‘With all my heart, if you will be a brave St. Martin, stopping as you ride gallantly through the world to share your cloak with the beggar.’
“我衷心希望你能成为一名勇敢的圣马丁，在英勇地骑行穿过世界时停下来与乞丐分享你的斗篷。”

‘It’s a bargain, and we shall get the best of it!’
“这是一笔划算的交易，我们会充分利用它！”

So the young pair shook hands upon it, and then paced happily on again, feeling that their pleasant home was more homelike because they hoped to brighten other homes, believing that their own feet would walk more uprightly along the flowery path before them, if they smoothed rough ways for other feet, and feeling that their hearts were more closely knit together by a love which could tenderly remember those less blest than they.
于是，小伙子们在上面握了握手，然后又高兴地踱步，感觉自己温馨的家更有家的感觉，因为他们希望照亮别人的家，相信自己的脚会在前面的花路上走得更直。他们为其他人铺平了崎岖的道路，并感到他们的心被一种爱更加紧密地联系在一起，这种爱可以温柔地记住那些不如他们幸福的人。

CHAPTER FORTY-FIVE
第四十五章

I cannot feel that I have done my duty as humble historian of the March family, without devoting at least one chapter to the two most precious and important members of it. Daisy and Demi had now arrived at years of discretion, for in this fast age babies of three or four assert their rights, and get them, too, which is more than many of their elders do. If there ever were a pair of twins in danger of being utterly spoiled by adoration, it was these prattling Brookes. Of course they were the most remarkable children ever born, as will be shown when I mention that they walked at eight months, talked fluently at twelve months, and at two years they took their places at table, and behaved with a propriety which charmed all beholders. At three, Daisy demanded a ‘needler’, and actually made a bag with four stitches in it. She likewise set up housekeeping in the sideboard, and managed a microscopic cooking stove with a skill that brought tears of pride to Hannah’s eyes, while Demi learned his letters with his grandfather, who invented a new mode of teaching the alphabet by forming letters with his arms and legs, thus uniting gymnastics for head and heels. The boy early developed a mechanical genius which delighted his father and distracted his mother, for he tried to imitate every machine he saw, and kept the nursery in a chaotic condition, with his ‘sewinsheen’, a mysterious structure of string, chairs, clothespins, and spools, for wheels to go ‘wound and wound’. Also a basket hung over the back of a chair, in which he vainly tried to hoist his too confiding sister, who, with feminine devotion, allowed her little head to be bumped till rescued, when the young inventor indignantly remarked, ‘Why, Marmar, dat’s my lellywaiter, and me’s trying to pull her up.’
如果我没有用至少一章的篇幅来介绍马奇家族中最珍贵和最重要的两位成员，我就觉得自己已经履行了作为马奇家族谦虚的历史学家的职责。黛西和黛米现在已经达到了谨慎的年龄，因为在这个快速的年龄，三四岁的婴儿主张自己的权利，并且也获得这些权利，这比他们的许多长辈做得更多。如果说有一对双胞胎面临被爱慕彻底宠坏的危险，那就是这对喋喋不休的布鲁克斯。当然，他们是有史以来出生的最杰出的孩子，正如我提到的那样，他们在八个月时会走路，在十二个月时能流利地说话，两岁时就在餐桌上就座，举止得体，令所有人着迷。旁观者。三岁时，黛西要了一把“针线器”，她实际上做了一个袋子，里面缝了四针。她同样在餐具柜里布置了家务，管理着一个微型炉子，她的技能让汉娜眼中流下了骄傲的泪水，而黛米则和他的祖父一起学习字母，祖父发明了一种新的字母表教学模式，通过用他的祖父写字母来教学。手臂和腿，从而将头部和脚后跟的体操结合起来。这个男孩很早就表现出一种机械天才，这让他的父亲很高兴，也让他的母亲分心，因为他试图模仿他看到的每台机器，并用他的“sewinsheen”（一种由绳子、椅子、衣夹组成的神秘结构）使托儿所保持混乱的状态。和线轴，让轮子“不断地缠绕”。椅背上还挂着一个篮子，他徒劳地试图将他过于信任的妹妹举起来，妹妹以女性般的虔诚，任由她的小头被撞，直到获救，这时年轻的发明家愤怒地说道：“为什么，马尔玛” ，那是我的服务员，我正试图把她拉起来。

Though utterly unlike in character, the twins got on remarkably well together, and seldom quarreled more than thrice a day. Of course, Demi tyrannized over Daisy, and gallantly defended her from every other aggressor, while Daisy made a galley slave of herself, and adored her brother as the one perfect being in the world. A rosy, chubby, sunshiny little soul was Daisy, who found her way to everybody’s heart, and nestled there. One of the captivating children, who seem made to be kissed and cuddled, adorned and adored like little goddesses, and produced for general approval on all festive occasions. Her small virtues were so sweet that she would have been quite angelic if a few small naughtinesses had not kept her delightfully human. It was all fair weather in her world, and every morning she scrambled up to the window in her little nightgown to look our, and say, no matter whether it rained or shone, ‘Oh, pitty day, oh, pitty day!’ Everyone was a friend, and she offered kisses to a stranger so confidingly that the most inveterate bachelor relented, and baby-lovers became faithful worshipers.
虽然性格截然不同，但这对双胞胎相处得非常好，每天吵架的次数很少超过三次。当然，黛米对黛西施暴，英勇地保护她免受其他侵略者的侵害，而黛西却把自己变成了船上的奴隶，并崇拜她的哥哥，认为她是世界上最完美的存在。黛西是一个红润、胖乎乎、阳光明媚的小灵魂，她找到了进入每个人的心并依偎在那里的方式。其中一位迷人的孩子，似乎生来就像小女神一样被亲吻、拥抱、装饰和崇拜，在所有节日场合都受到普遍认可。她的小美德是如此甜蜜，如果不是一些小顽皮让她保持着令人愉快的人性，她简直就像天使一样。她的世界里天气晴朗，每天早上，她都会穿着小睡衣爬到窗前看着我们，不管是下雨还是晴天，她都会说：“哦，可怜的一天，哦，可怜的一天！”她是一位朋友，她如此信任地向陌生人亲吻，以至于最顽固的单身汉都心软了，爱婴儿的人也变成了忠实的崇拜者。

‘Me loves evvybody,’ she once said, opening her arms, with her spoon in one hand, and her mug in the other, as if eager to embrace and nourish the whole world.
“我爱每个人，”她曾经说道，张开双臂，一手拿着勺子，另一只手拿着杯子，仿佛渴望拥抱和滋养整个世界。

As she grew, her mother began to feel that the Dovecote would be blessed by the presence of an inmate as serene and loving as that which had helped to make the old house home, and to pray that she might be spared a loss like that which had lately taught them how long they had entertained an angel unawares. Her grandfather often called her ‘Beth’, and her grandmother watched over her with untiring devotion, as if trying to atone for some past mistake, which no eye but her own could see.
随着她的成长，她的母亲开始感到，鸽舍会因为有一个像帮助老房子成为家的人一样平静和充满爱心的囚犯而受到祝福，并祈祷她可以免受像以前那样的损失。最近告诉他们，他们不知不觉地招待了天使多久。她的祖父经常叫她“贝丝”，她的祖母则不知疲倦地注视着她，仿佛在试图弥补过去的一些错误，除了她自己的眼睛之外，没有人能看到这一点。

Demi, like a true Yankee, was of an inquiring turn, wanting to know everything, and often getting much disturbed because he could not get satisfactory answers to his perpetual ‘What for?’
黛米就像一个真正的北方佬一样，具有好奇心，想知道一切，但常常因为无法对他永远的“为什么？”问题得到满意的答案而感到不安。

He also possessed a philosophic bent, to the great delight of his grandfather, who used to hold Socratic conversations with him, in which the precocious pupil occasionally posed his teacher, to the undisguised satisfaction of the womenfolk.
他还拥有一种哲学倾向，这让他的祖父非常高兴，他经常与他进行苏格拉底式的对话，其中这个早熟的学生偶尔会摆出他的老师的姿势，这让女人们毫不掩饰地感到满意。

‘What makes my legs go, Dranpa?’ asked the young philosopher, surveying those active portions of his frame with a meditative air, while resting after a go-to-bed frolic one night.
“是什么让我的双腿能够活动，卓巴？”这位年轻的哲学家问道，他在一天晚上上床嬉戏后休息时，以一种冥想的神情审视着自己身体的活动部分。

‘It’s your little mind, Demi,’ replied the sage, stroking the yellow head respectfully.
“这是你的小心思，黛米，”圣人回答道，恭敬地抚摸着黄色的脑袋。

‘What is a little mine?’
“我的小东西是什么？”

‘It is something which makes your body move, as the spring made the wheels go in my watch when I showed it to you.’
“它能让你的身体移动，就像我向你展示它时，弹簧使我的手表中的轮子转动一样。”

‘Open me. I want to see it go wound.’
'打开我。我想看到它上链。

‘I can’t do that any more than you could open the watch. God winds you up, and you go till He stops you.’
“我不能这么做，就像你不能打开手表一样。”上帝让你上弦，你就一直走，直到他阻止你为止。

‘Does I?’ And Demi’s brown eyes grew big and bright as he took in the new thought. ‘Is I wounded up like the watch?’
“是吗？”当黛米接受了这个新想法时，他的棕色眼睛变得又大又亮。 “我也像手表一样上发条了吗？”

‘Yes, but I can’t show you how, for it is done when we don’t see.’
“是的，但我不能告诉你怎么做，因为它是在我们看不见的时候完成的。”

Demi felt his back, as if expecting to find it like that of the watch, and then gravely remarked, ‘I dess Dod does it when I’s asleep.’
黛米摸了摸他的背，仿佛期待着像手表一样找到它，然后严肃地说：“我希望多德在我睡着的时候这么做。”

A careful explanation followed, to which he listened so attentively that his anxious grandmother said, ‘My dear, do you think it wise to talk about such things to that baby? He’s getting great bumps over his eyes, and learning to ask the most unanswerable questions.’
接下来是仔细的解释，他听得如此专注，以至于他焦急的祖母说：“亲爱的，你认为和那个婴儿谈论这些事情明智吗？”他的眼睛上出现了很大的肿块，并学会了提出最无法回答的问题。

‘If he is old enough to ask the question he is old enough to receive true answers. I am not putting the thoughts into his head, but helping him unfold those already there. These children are wiser than we are, and I have no doubt the boy understands every word I have said to him. Now, Demi, tell me where you keep your mind.’
“如果他足够大，可以提出问题，那么他就足够大，可以得到真正的答案。”我不是把想法放进他的头脑里，而是帮助他展开那些已经存在的想法。这些孩子比我们聪明，我毫不怀疑这个男孩明白我对他说的每一句话。现在，黛米，告诉我你的想法在哪里。

If the boy had replied like Alcibiades, ‘By the gods, Socrates, I cannot tell,’ his grandfather would not have been surprised, but when, after standing a moment on one leg, like a meditative young stork, he answered, in a tone of calm conviction, ‘In my little belly,’ the old gentleman could only join in Grandma’s laugh, and dismiss the class in metaphysics.
如果这个男孩像亚西比德那样回答，“以众神之名，苏格拉底，我不知道”，他的祖父不会感到惊讶，但当他像一只沉思的幼鹳一样单腿站立片刻后，用一种沉思的语气回答道。老先生用平静笃定的语气，“在我的小肚子里”，只能和奶奶一起笑，把玄学课下课了。

There might have been cause for maternal anxiety, if Demi had not given convincing proofs that he was a true boy, as well as a budding philosopher, for often, after a discussion which caused Hannah to prophesy, with ominous nods, ‘That child ain’t long for this world,’ he would turn about and set her fears at rest by some of the pranks with which dear, dirty, naughty little rascals distract and delight their parent’s souls.
如果黛米没有提供令人信服的证据，证明他是一个真正的男孩，也是一个崭露头角的哲学家，那么母亲的焦虑可能是有原因的，因为在一次讨论之后，汉娜常常不祥地点头预言，“那个孩子是“不渴望这个世界”，他会转过身来，用一些恶作剧来消除她的恐惧，这些恶作剧是亲爱的、肮脏的、顽皮的小流氓们用来分散和愉悦他们父母的灵魂的。

Meg made many moral rules, and tried to keep them, but what mother was ever proof against the winning wiles, the ingenious evasions, or the tranquil audacity of the miniature men and women who so early show themselves accomplished Artful Dodgers?
梅格制定了许多道德规则，并试图遵守它们，但是哪个母亲能够抵御那些这么早就表现出熟练的狡猾道奇的微型男人和女人的获胜诡计、巧妙的逃避或平静的大胆呢？

‘No more raisins, Demi. They’ll make you sick,’ says Mamma to the young person who offers his services in the kitchen with unfailing regularity on plum-pudding day.
“不要再吃葡萄干了，黛米。它们会让你生病的。”妈妈对那个在李子布丁日总是在厨房提供服务的年轻人说道。

‘Me likes to be sick.’
“我喜欢生病。”

‘I don’t want to have you, so run away and help Daisy make patty cakes.’
“我不想拥有你，所以赶紧跑去帮黛西做馅饼吧。”

He reluctantly departs, but his wrongs weigh upon his spirit, and by-and-by when an opportunity comes to redress them, he outwits Mamma by a shrewd bargain.
他不情愿地离开，但他所犯的错却沉重地压在他的心上，渐渐地，当有机会纠正这些错误时，他以精明的讨价还价战胜了妈妈。

‘Now you have been good children, and I’ll play anything you like,’ says Meg, as she leads her assistant cooks upstairs, when the pudding is safely bouncing in the pot.
“现在你们都是好孩子了，我会玩你们喜欢的任何游戏，”当布丁在锅里安全地弹跳时，梅格一边说着，一边带领她的助理厨师上楼。

‘Truly, Marmar?’ asks Demi, with a brilliant idea in his well-powdered head.
“真的吗，马尔玛？”黛米问道，他的脑子里冒出了一个绝妙的主意。

‘Yes, truly. Anything you say,’ replies the shortsighted parent, preparing herself to sing, ‘The Three Little Kittens’ half a dozen times over, or to take her family to ‘Buy a penny bun,’ regardless of wind or limb. But Demi corners her by the cool reply...
是的，确实如此。你说什么都行，”这位目光短浅的家长回答道，她准备把《三只小猫》唱六遍，或者带她的家人去“买一个便士包”，不管刮风还是四肢。但黛米却用冷静的回答将她逼入绝境……

‘Then we’ll go and eat up all the raisins.’
“那我们就去吃掉所有的葡萄干。”

Aunt Dodo was chief playmate and confidante of both children, and the trio turned the little house topsy-turvy. Aunt Amy was as yet only a name to them, Aunt Beth soon faded into a pleasantly vague memory, but Aunt Dodo was a living reality, and they made the most of her, for which compliment she was deeply grateful. But when Mr. Bhaer came, Jo neglected her playfellows, and dismay and desolation fell upon their little souls. Daisy, who was fond of going about peddling kisses, lost her best customer and became bankrupt. Demi, with infantile penetration, soon discovered that Dodo like to play with ‘the bear-man’ better than she did him, but though hurt, he concealed his anguish, for he hadn’t the heart to insult a rival who kept a mine of chocolate drops in his waistcoat pocket, and a watch that could be taken out of its case and freely shaken by ardent admirers.
多多阿姨是两个孩子的主要玩伴和知己，三人把这个小房子搞得天翻地覆。艾米阿姨对他们来说还只是一个名字，贝丝阿姨很快就消失在令人愉快的模糊记忆中，但多多阿姨是一个活生生的现实，他们充分利用了她，对此她深表感激。但当巴尔先生到来时，乔忽视了她的玩伴，沮丧和凄凉降临在他们小小的灵魂上。喜欢兜售亲吻的黛西失去了最好的顾客并破产了。黛米以婴儿般的洞察力很快发现多多比她更喜欢和“熊人”玩耍，但尽管受伤，他还是掩饰了自己的痛苦，因为他不忍心侮辱一个拥有地雷的对手他的背心口袋里有一颗巧克力滴，还有一块手表，可以从表壳中取出，供热心的崇拜者随意摇晃。

Some persons might have considered these pleasing liberties as bribes, but Demi didn’t see it in that light, and continued to patronize the ‘the bear-man’ with pensive affability, while Daisy bestowed her small affections upon him at the third call, and considered his shoulder her throne, his arm her refuge, his gifts treasures surpassing worth.
有些人可能会认为这些令人愉快的自由是贿赂，但黛米不这么认为，并继续以沉思的和蔼可亲的态度对待“熊人”，而黛西在第三次召唤时向他表达了她的小小的感情，并认为他的肩膀是她的王座，他的手臂是她的避难所，他的礼物是价值非凡的珍宝。

Gentlemen are sometimes seized with sudden fits of admiration for the young relatives of ladies whom they honor with their regard, but this counterfeit philoprogenitiveness sits uneasily upon them, and does not deceive anybody a particle. Mr. Bhaer’s devotion was sincere, however likewise effective—for honesty is the best policy in love as in law. He was one of the men who are at home with children, and looked particularly well when little faces made a pleasant contrast with his manly one. His business, whatever it was, detained him from day to day, but evening seldom failed to bring him out to see—well, he always asked for Mr. March, so I suppose he was the attraction. The excellent papa labored under the delusion that he was, and reveled in long discussions with the kindred spirit, till a chance remark of his more observing grandson suddenly enlightened him.
绅士们有时会突然对她们所尊敬的女士们的年轻亲戚产生钦佩之情，但这种假冒的亲子关系却让他们感到不安，丝毫不会欺骗任何人。巴尔先生的奉献是真诚的，但同样有效——因为诚实是爱情和法律中的最佳政策。他是家里有孩子的男人之一，当小脸与他的男子汉脸形成令人愉快的对比时，他看起来特别好。他的生意，不管是什么，日复一日地耽搁着他，但晚上总是会带他出去看看——嗯，他总是要求见马奇先生，所以我想他是吸引人的地方。这位优秀的爸爸一直误以为自己是这样的人，并陶醉于与志同道合的人进行长时间的讨论，直到他更善于观察的孙子的偶然一句话突然启发了他。

Mr. Bhaer came in one evening to pause on the threshold of the study, astonished by the spectacle that met his eye. Prone upon the floor lay Mr. March, with his respectable legs in the air, and beside him, likewise prone, was Demi, trying to imitate the attitude with his own short, scarlet-stockinged legs, both grovelers so seriously absorbed that they were unconscious of spectators, till Mr. Bhaer laughed his sonorous laugh, and Jo cried out, with a scandalized face...
一天晚上，巴尔先生来到书房门口，他对眼前的景象感到惊讶。马奇先生趴在地板上，双腿高高举在空中，在他旁边，黛米也同样趴在地上，试图用自己穿着猩红色长筒袜的短腿模仿这种态度，两条腿都如此认真地专注着，以至于他们都被吸引住了。没有注意到观众，直到巴尔先生发出响亮的笑声，乔满脸惊愕地大喊起来……

‘Father, Father, here’s the Professor!’
“父亲，父亲，教授来了！”

Down went the black legs and up came the gray head, as the preceptor said, with undisturbed dignity, ‘Good evening, Mr. Bhaer. Excuse me for a moment. We are just finishing our lesson. Now, Demi, make the letter and tell its name.’
黑色的腿放下来，灰色的头抬起来，导师带着不受干扰的尊严说道：“晚上好，巴尔先生。”请原谅我一下。我们刚刚上完课。现在，黛米，写下这封信并说出它的名字。

‘I knows him!’ And, after a few convulsive efforts, the red legs tok the shape of a pair of compasses, and the intelligent pupil triumphantly shouted, ‘It’s a We, Dranpa, it’s a We!’
“我认识他！”经过一番剧烈的努力后，红色的腿变成了圆规的形状，聪明的学生得意地喊道：“是我们，卓巴，这是我们！”

‘He’s a born Weller,’ laughed Jo, as her parent gathered himself up, and her nephew tried to stand on his head, as the only mode of expressing his satisfaction that school was over.
“他是个天生的威勒人，”乔笑着说，她的父母站了起来，她的侄子试图倒立，这是表达他对学校结束感到满意的唯一方式。

‘What have you been at today, bubchen?’ asked Mr. Bhaer, picking up the gymnast.
“你今天干了什么，小伙子？”巴尔先生抱起体操运动员问道。

‘Me went to see little Mary.’
“我去看小玛丽了。”

‘And what did you there?’
“你在那里做了什么？”

‘I kissed her,’ began Demi, with artless frankness. ‘Prut! Thou beginnest early. What did the little Mary say to that?’ asked Mr. Bhaer, continuing to confess the young sinner, who stood upon the knee, exploring the waistcoat pocket.
“我吻了她，”黛米坦率地说道。 ‘普鲁特！你开始得很早。 “小玛丽对此说了什么？”巴尔先生问道，继续向跪在地上摸索背心口袋的年轻罪人忏悔。

‘Oh, she liked it, and she kissed me, and I liked it. Don’t little boys like little girls?’ asked Demi, with his mouth full, and an air of bland satisfaction.
“哦，她喜欢它，她吻了我，我喜欢它。小男孩不都喜欢小女孩吗？”黛米满嘴塞满了东西，脸上带着温和满足的神情问道。

‘You precious chick! Who put that into your head?’ said Jo, enjoying the innocent revelation as much as the Professor.
‘你这个宝贝小妞！谁把这个放进你脑子里的？”乔说，她和教授一样享受这个天真无邪的启示。

‘Tisn’t in mine head, it’s in mine mouf,’ answered literal Demi, putting out his tongue, with a chocolate drop on it, thinking she alluded to confectionery, not ideas.
“这不是在我的脑子里，而是在我的mouf里，”黛米直接回答道，伸出舌头，上面沾着巧克力滴，以为她指的是糖果，而不是想法。

‘Thou shouldst save some for the little friend. Sweets to the sweet, mannling.’ And Mr. Bhaer offered Jo some, with a look that made her wonder if chocolate was not the nectar drunk by the gods. Demi also saw the smile, was impressed by it, and artlessy inquired. ..
‘你应该留一些给小朋友。甜到甜，曼林。”巴尔先生递给乔一些，他的表情让她怀疑巧克力是不是众神喝下的甘露。黛米也看到了这个笑容，印象深刻，天真地询问道。 ..

‘Do great boys like great girls, to, ‘Fessor?’
“伟大的男孩喜欢伟大的女孩吗，‘Fessor？’

Like young Washington, Mr. Bhaer ‘couldn’t tell a lie’, so he gave the somewhat vague reply that he believed they did sometimes, in a tone that made Mr. March put down his clothesbrush, glance at Jo’s retiring face, and then sink into his chair, looking as if the ‘precocious chick’ had put an idea into his head that was both sweet and sour.
就像年轻的华盛顿一样，巴尔先生“不会说谎”，所以他给出了有点模糊的回答，他相信他们有时会这样做，他的语气让马奇先生放下了他的衣刷，看了一眼乔退休的脸，然后然后一屁股坐在椅子上，看上去就像是那个“早熟小妞”在他脑子里灌输了一个既甜又酸的想法。

Why Dodo, when she caught him in the china closet half an hour afterward, nearly squeezed the breath out of his little body with a tender embrace, instead of shaking him for being there, and why she followed up this novel performance by the unexpected gift of a big slice of bread and jelly, remained one of the problems over which Demi puzzled his small wits, and was forced to leave unsolved forever.
半小时后，当多多在瓷器壁橱里抓住他时，为什么她没有摇晃他，而是用温柔的拥抱差点把他的小身体压得透不过气来，为什么她在这一新颖的表演之后又送上了意想不到的礼物一大片面包和果冻，仍然是黛米困惑他的小聪明的问题之一，被迫永远悬而未决。

CHAPTER FORTY-SIX
第四十六章

While Laurie and Amy were taking conjugal strolls over velvet carpets, as they set their house in order, and planned a blissful future, Mr. Bhaer and Jo were enjoying promenades of a different sort, along muddy roads and sodden fields.
当劳里和艾米在天鹅绒地毯上漫步，整理房间并计划幸福的未来时，巴尔先生和乔正在享受不同类型的散步，沿着泥泞的道路和湿漉漉的田野。

‘I always do take a walk toward evening, and I don’t know why I should give it up, just because I happen to meet the Professor on his way out,’ said Jo to herself, after two or three encounters, for though there were two paths to Meg’s whichever one she took she was sure to meet him., either going or returning. He was always walking rapidly, and never seemed to see her until quite close, when he would look as if his short-sighted eyes had failed to recognize the approaching lady till that moment. Then, if she was going to Meg’s he always had something for the babies. If her face was turned homeward, he had merely strolled down to see the river, and was just returning, unless they were tired of his frequent calls.
“我总是在傍晚时散步，但我不知道为什么要放弃，只是因为我碰巧在教授出去的时候遇到了他，”乔自言自语地说，在遇到了两三次之后，通往梅格家的路有两条，无论她走哪一条，她都一定会遇见他，要么走，要么回来。他总是走得很快，似乎直到很近的时候才看到她，那时他看起来就好像他的近视眼直到那一刻才认出正在走近的女士。然后，如果她去梅格家，他总是为婴儿准备一些东西。如果她的脸朝家，他只是漫步去看河，然后就回来了，除非他们厌倦了他频繁的拜访。

Under the circumstances, what could Jo do but greet him civilly, and invite him in? If she was tired of his visits, she concealed her weariness with perfect skill, and took care that there should be coffee for supper, ‘as Friedrich—I mean Mr. Bhaer—doesn’t like tea.’
在这种情况下，乔除了礼貌地打招呼并邀请他进来之外还能做什么呢？如果她厌倦了他的来访，她就会以完美的技巧掩饰自己的疲倦，并注意晚饭应该有咖啡，“因为弗里德里希——我是说巴尔先生——不喜欢茶。”

By the second week, everyone knew perfectly well what was going on, yet everyone tried to look as if they were stone-blind to the changes in Jo’s face. They never asked why she sang about her work, did up her hair three times a day, and got so blooming with her evening exercise. And no one seemed to have the slightest suspicion that Professor Bhaer, while talking philosophy with the father, was giving the daughter lessons in love.
到了第二周，每个人都清楚地知道发生了什么事，但每个人都试图表现得好像对乔脸上的变化视而不见。他们从来没有问过她为什么会唱关于工作的歌，为什么一天要梳三遍头发，为什么晚上的锻炼会如此神采飞扬。似乎没有人丝毫怀疑巴尔教授在与父亲谈论哲学时正在给女儿上爱情课。

Jo couldn’t even lose her heart in a decorous manner, but sternly tried to quench her feelings, and failing to do so, led a somewhat agitated life. She was mortally afraid of being laughed at for surrendering, after her many and vehement declarations of independence. Laurie was her especial dread, but thanks to the new manager, he behaved with praiseworthy propriety, never called Mr. Bhaer ‘a capital old fellow’ in public, never alluded, in the remotest manner, to Jo’s improved appearance, or expressed the least surprise at seeing the Professor’s hat on the Marches’ table nearly every evening. But he exulted in private and longed for the time to come when he could give Jo a piece of plate, with a bear and a ragged staff on it as an appropriate coat of arms.
乔甚至无法以礼节性的方式失去自己的心，而是严厉地试图平息自己的感情，但未能做到这一点，过着有点烦躁的生活。在她多次强烈地宣布独立之后，她非常害怕因为投降而被嘲笑。劳里是她特别害怕的人，但多亏了新任经理，他的举止举止得体，值得称赞，从未在公开场合称巴尔先生为“大老头”，也从未以最冷淡的方式暗示乔的外表有所改善，也从未表达过最少的意思。几乎每天晚上都会惊讶地看到教授的帽子放在马奇家的桌子上。但他私下里却欣喜若狂，渴望有一天能送给乔一块盘子，盘子上有一只熊和一根破烂的手杖，作为合适的徽章。

For a fortnight, the Professor came and went with lover-like regularity. Then he stayed away for three whole days, and made no sign, a proceeding which caused everybody to look sober, and Jo to become pensive, at first, and then—alas for romance—very cross.
两周来，教授像恋人一样规律地来来去去。然后他整整三天没有出去，没有任何迹象，这一举动让每个人都显得清醒，乔开始陷入沉思，然后——唉，浪漫——非常生气。

‘Disgusted, I dare say, and gone home as suddenly as he came. It’s nothing tome, of course, but I should think he would have come and bid us goodbye like a gentleman,’ she said to herself, with a despairing look at the gate, as she put on her things for the customary walk one dull afternoon.
“我敢说，我很厌恶，然后就像他来时一样突然回家了。当然，这对我来说没什么，但我想他会像一位绅士一样来和我们告别，”她自言自语，绝望地看着大门，在一个沉闷的下午，她穿上衣服准备例行散步。 。

‘You’d better take the little umbrella, dear. It looks like rain,’ said her mother, observing that she had on her new bonnet, but not alluding to the fact. ‘Yes, Marmee, do you want anything in town? I’ve got to run in and get some paper,’ returned Jo, pulling out the bow under her chin before the glass as an excuse for not looking at her mother.
“亲爱的，你最好带上小伞。”看起来像要下雨了，”她母亲说，注意到她戴着新帽子，但没有提及这一事实。 “是的，妈妈，你在城里想要什么吗？我得跑进去拿些纸。”乔回答道，她在玻璃前拉出了下巴下的蝴蝶结，以此作为不看母亲的借口。

‘Yes, I want some twilled silesia, a paper of number nine needles, and two yards of narrow lavender ribbon. Have you got your thick boots on, and something warm under your cloak?’
“是的，我想要一些斜纹西里西亚，一张九号针的纸，还有两码窄的淡紫色丝带。你穿好厚靴子了吗？斗篷下面放点保暖的东西了吗？

‘I believe so,’ answered Jo absently.
“我相信是这样，”乔心不在焉地回答。

‘If you happen to meet Mr. Bhaer, bring him home to tea. I quite long to see the dear man,’ added Mrs. March.
“如果你碰巧遇到了巴尔先生，请带他回家喝茶。我很想见到这位亲爱的男人，”马奇夫人补充道。

Jo heard that, but made no answer, except to kiss her mother, and walk rapidly away, thinking with a glow of gratitude, in spite of her heartache, ‘How good she is to me! What do girls do who haven’t any mothers to help them through their troubles?’
乔听了，却没有回答，只是吻了吻母亲，然后快步走开，心痛不已，脸上洋溢着感激之情，想着：“她对我多好啊！”如果没有母亲帮助她们渡过难关，女孩们会怎么办？

The dry-goods stores were not down among the counting-houses, banks, and wholesale warerooms, where gentlemen most do congregate, but Jo found herself in that part of the city before she did a single errand, loitering along as if waiting for someone, examining engineering instruments in one window and samples of wool in another, with most unfeminine interest, tumbling over barrels, being half-smothered by descending bales, and hustled unceremoniously by busy men who looked as if they wondered ‘how the deuce she got there’. A drop of rain on her cheek recalled her thoughts from baffled hopes to ruined ribbons. For the drops continued to fall, and being a woman as well as a lover, she felt that, though it was too late to save her heart, she might her bonnet. Now she remembered the little umbrella, which she had forgotten to take in her hurry to be off, but regret was unavailing, and nothing could be done but borrow one or submit to to a drenching. She looked up at the lowering sky, down at the crimson bow already flecked with black, forward along the muddy street, then one long, lingering look behind, at a certain grimy warehouse, with ‘Hoffmann, Swartz, & Co.’ over the door, and said to herself, with a sternly reproachful air...
干货店并不在会计室、银行和批发仓库之间，那些绅士们最常聚集的地方，但乔在做一件事情之前就发现自己在城市的那个地方，闲逛着，好像在等人，以最不女性化的兴趣检查一扇窗户里的工程仪器和另一扇窗户里的羊毛样品，在桶上翻滚，被下降的包裹压得半窒息，并被忙碌的男人毫不客气地推来推去，他们看起来好像想知道“她是如何到达那里的” '。她脸颊上的一滴雨点唤起了她的思绪，从受挫的希望到毁坏的丝带。雨滴继续落下，作为一个女人，也是一个情人，她觉得，虽然已经来不及挽救她的心了，但她还是可以保住她的帽子。现在她想起了那把小伞，她在匆忙离开时忘记带了，但遗憾是无济于事的，除了借一把或接受淋雨之外，别无他法。她抬头望着低垂的天空，低头望着已经布满黑色斑点的深红色船头，沿着泥泞的街道向前走，然后长时间地、挥之不去地望着身后，看到某个肮脏的仓库，上面写着“霍夫曼·斯沃茨公司”。门外，带着严厉责备的神情自言自语道……

‘It serves me right! what business had I to put on all my best things and come philandering down here, hoping to see the Professor? Jo, I’m ashamed of you! No, you shall not go there to borrow an umbrella, or find out where he is, from his friends. You shall trudge away, and do your errands in the rain, and if you catch your death and ruin your bonnet, it’s no more than you deserve. Now then!’
‘这对我来说是对的！我有什么必要穿上我最好的衣服到这里来打情骂俏，希望能见到教授呢？乔，我为你感到羞耻！不，你不能去那里向他的朋友借雨伞，或者打听他在哪里。你将在雨中跋涉，完成你的任务，如果你死了，毁掉了你的帽子，那也是你应得的。接着！'

With that she rushed across the street so impetuously that she narrowly escaped annihilation from a passing truck, and precipitated herself into the arms of a stately old gentleman, who said, ‘I beg pardon, ma’am,’ and looked mortally offended. Somewhat daunted, Jo righted herself, spread her handkerchief over the devoted ribbons, and putting temptation behind her, hurried on, with increasing dampness about the ankles, and much clashing of umbrellas overhead. The fact that a somewhat dilapidated blue one remained stationary above the unprotected bonnet attracted her attention, and looking up, she saw Mr. Bhaer looking down.
说完，她气急败坏地冲过街道，险些被一辆路过的卡车撞死，然后扑进了一位庄严的老绅士的怀里，这位老绅士说道：“请原谅，女士。”看上去非常生气。乔有些害怕，她站直了身子，用手帕盖住了忠诚的丝带，把诱惑抛在了身后，匆匆忙忙地走着，脚踝越来越湿，头顶上的雨伞发出了很大的碰撞声。事实上，在未受保护的引擎盖上方，有一个有点破旧的蓝色静止不动，这一事实引起了她的注意，她抬起头，看到巴尔先生正在俯视。

‘I feel to know the strong-minded lady who goes so bravely under many horse noses, and so fast through much mus. What do you down here, my friend?’
“我觉得我认识这位意志坚强的女士，她在许多马鼻子下如此勇敢，又如此快速地穿过许多穆斯。我的朋友，你在这儿做什么？

‘I’m shopping.’
“我正在购物。”

Mr. Bhaer smiled, as he glanced from the pickle factory on one side to the wholesale hide and leather concern on the other, but her only said politely, ‘You haf no umbrella. May I go also, and take for you the bundles?’
巴尔先生微笑着，目光从一侧的泡菜工厂扫向另一侧的批发生皮和皮革工厂，但她只是礼貌地说：“你没有伞。”我也可以去帮你拿一下包裹吗？

‘Yes, thank you.’
'是的，谢谢。'

Jo’s cheeks were as red as her ribbon, and she wondered what he thought of her, but she didn’t care, for in a minute she found herself walking away arm in arm with her Professor, feeling as if the sun had suddenly burst out with uncommon brilliancy, that the world was all right again, and that one thoroughly happy woman was paddling through the wet that day.
乔的脸颊红得像丝带一样，她想知道他对她有何看法，但她不在乎，因为一会儿她就发现自己和教授手挽着手走开了，感觉好像太阳突然爆发了。带着不寻常的光彩，世界又恢复了正常，那天，一位非常幸福的女人正在湿漉漉的水中划船。

‘We thought you had gone,’ said Jo hastily, for she knew he was looking at her. Her bonnet wasn’t big enough to hide her face, and she feared he might think the joy it betrayed unmaidenly.
“我们以为你已经走了。”乔急忙说道，因为她知道他正在看着她。她的帽子不够大，无法遮住她的脸，她担心他会认为帽子泄露了她的快乐。

‘Did you believe that I should go with no farewell to those who haf been so heavenly kind tome?’ he asked so reproachfully that she felt as if she had insulted him by the suggestion, and answered heartily...
“你认为我应该不辞而别地离开那些对我如此仁慈的人吗？”他用责备的语气问道，她觉得自己的建议侮辱了他，于是她真诚地回答道……

‘No, I didn’t. I knew you were busy about your own affairs, but we rather missed you, Father and Mother especially.’
‘不，我没有。我知道您忙于自己的事情，但我们很想念您，尤其是父亲和母亲。

‘And you?’
'你呢？'

‘I’m always glad to see you, sir.’
“我总是很高兴见到你，先生。”

In her anxiety to keep her voice quite calm, Jo made it rather cool, and the frosty little monosyllable at the end seemed to chill the Professor, for his smile vanished, as he said gravely...
乔焦急地想让自己的声音保持平静，所以把语气说得相当冷静，而最后那个冰冷的小单音节似乎让教授感到寒冷，因为当他严肃地说时，他的笑容消失了……

‘I thank you, and come one more time before I go.’
“谢谢你，走之前再来一次。”

‘You are going, then?’
“那么你要去吗？”

‘I haf no longer any business here, it is done.’
“我在这里不再有任何事了，已经结束了。”

‘Successfully, I hope?’ said Jo, for the bitterness of disappointment was in that short reply of his.
“我希望成功吗？”乔说道，因为他简短的回答中充满了失望的苦涩。

‘I ought to think so, for I haf a way opened to me by which I can make my bread and gif my Junglings much help.’
“我应该这么认为，因为我有一条路向我敞开，我可以通过它制作面包，并为我的丛林提供很多帮助。”

‘Tell me, please! I like to know all about the—the boys,’
'请告诉我！我想了解关于——男孩们的一切，”

said Jo eagerly.
乔急切地说。

‘That is so kind, I gladly tell you. My friends find for me a place in a college, where I teach as at home, and earn enough to make the way smooth for Franz and Emil. For this I should be grateful, should I not?’
‘这真是太好了，我很高兴告诉你。我的朋友们为我在大学里找到了一个位置，我在那里教书，就像在家里一样，并赚到足够的钱让弗兰兹和埃米尔的道路顺利。为此我应该心存感激，不是吗？

‘Indeed you should. How splendid it will be to have you doing what you like, and be able to see you often, and the boys!’ cried Jo, clinging to the lads as an excuse for the satisfaction she could not help betraying.
‘确实你应该这样做。让你做你喜欢做的事，能够经常见到你和孩子们，那该多好啊！”乔喊道，紧紧抓住孩子们，以此作为她无法控制的满足感的借口。

‘Ah! But we shall not meet often, I fear, this place is at the West.’
'啊！但我担心我们不会经常见面，这个地方在西方。”

‘So far away!’ And Jo left her skirts to their fate, as if it didn’t matter now what became of her clothes or herself.
“那么遥远！”乔把裙子听天由命，仿佛现在她的衣服或她自己的下场已经不重要了。

Mr. Bhaer could read several languages, but he had not learned to read women yet. He flattered himself that he knew Jo pretty well, and was, therefore, much amazed by the contradictions of voice, face, and manner, which she showed him in rapid succession that day, for she was in half a dozen different moods in the course of half an hour. When she met him she looked surprised, though it was impossible to help suspecting that she had come for that express purpose. When he offered her his arm, she took it with a look that filled him with delight, but when he asked if she missed him, she gave such a chilly, formal reply that despair fell upon him. On learning his good fortune she almost clapped her hands. Was the joy all for the boys? Then on hearing his destination, she said, ‘So far away!’ in a tone of despair that lifted him on to a pinnacle of hope, but the next minute she tumbled him down again by observing, like one entirely absorbed in the matter...
巴尔先生能读懂多种语言，但他还没有学会读懂女性。他自以为自己很了解乔，因此对那天她迅速连续地向他展示的声音、面孔和举止的矛盾感到非常惊讶，因为她在课程中处于六种不同的情绪中。半小时。当她见到他时，她显得很惊讶，尽管我们不禁怀疑她就是为了这个明确的目的而来的。当他向她伸出手臂时，她用一种让他充满喜悦的表情抓住了它，但当他问她是否想念他时，她给出了如此冷漠、正式的回答，绝望降临在他身上。得知他的好运后，她几乎拍起了手。欢乐都是男孩们的吗？然后，当听到他的目的地时，她用一种绝望的语气说：“好远啊！”这让他升到了希望的顶峰，但下一分钟，她又像全神贯注地观察一样，把他摔倒了。 ..

‘Here’s the place for my errands. Will you come in? It won’t take long.’
‘这里是我办事的地方。你会进来吗？不会花很长时间的。

Jo rather prided herself upon her shopping capabilities, and particularly wished to impress her escort with the neatness and dispatch with which she would accomplish the business. But owing to the flutter she was in, everything went amiss. She upset the tray of needles, forgot the silesia was to be ‘twilled’ till it was cut off, gave the wrong change, and covered herself with confusion by asking for lavender ribbon at the calico counter. Mr. Bhaer stood by, watching her blush and blunder, and as he watched, his own bewilderment seemed to subside, for he was beginning to see that on some occasions, women, like dreams, go by contraries.
乔对自己的购物能力相当自豪，特别希望她完成生意时的整洁和敏捷给她的陪同人员留下深刻的印象。但由于她的心慌意乱，一切都变得不对劲。她打翻了装针的托盘，忘记了西里西亚要被“斜纹”直到被剪掉，找错了零钱，并在印花布柜台要了薰衣草丝带，让自己陷入了困惑。巴尔先生站在一旁，看着她脸红、犯错，当他看着的时候，他自己的困惑似乎消退了，因为他开始发现，在某些情况下，女人就像梦一样，会出现相反的情况。

When they came out, he put the parcel under his arm with a more cheerful aspect, and splashed through the puddles as if he rather enjoyed it on the whole.
当他们出来的时候，他把包裹夹在腋下，神情更加愉快，在水坑里泼水，好像他很享受这一切。

‘Should we no do a little what you call shopping for the babies, and haf a farewell feast tonight if I go for my last call at your so pleasant home?’ he asked, stopping before a window full of fruit and flowers.
“如果我去你如此舒适的家做最后一次拜访，我们今晚是不是应该做一点你所谓的为婴儿们购物的事情，并举​​办一场告别宴会？”他问道，停在一扇摆满水果和鲜花的窗户前。

‘What will we buy?’ asked Jo, ignoring the latter part of his speech, and sniffing the mingled odors with an affectation of delight as they went in.
“我们要买什么？”乔问，忽略了他讲话的后半部分，当他们走进去时，带着一种做作的喜悦嗅着混合在一起的气味。

‘May they haf oranges and figs?’ asked Mr. Bhaer, with a paternal air.
“他们可以吃橙子和无花果吗？”巴尔先生带着慈父般的神情问道。

‘They eat them when they can get them.’ ‘Do you care for nuts?’
“他们一有机会就会吃掉它们。”“你喜欢坚果吗？”

‘Like a squirrel.’
“像松鼠一样。”

‘Hamburg grapes. Yes, we shall drink to the Fatherland in those?’
‘汉堡葡萄。是的，我们应该为祖国干杯吗？

Jo frowned upon that piece of extravagance, and asked why he didn’t buy a frail of dated, a cask of raisins, and a bag of almonds, and be done with it? Whereat Mr. Bhaer confiscated her purse, produced his own, and finished the marketing by buying several pounds of grapes, a pot of rosy daisies, and a pretty jar of honey, to be regarded in the light of a demijohn. Then distorting his pockets with knobby bundles, and giving her the flowers to hold, he put up the old umbrella, and they traveled on again.
乔对这种奢侈行为皱起了眉头，问他为什么不买一罐枣子、一桶葡萄干和一袋杏仁，然后就结束了？于是，巴尔先生没收了她的钱包，制作了自己的钱包，并购买了几磅葡萄、一盆玫瑰色雏菊和一罐漂亮的蜂蜜，以半约翰的眼光来看待，从而完成了营销。然后他把口袋里塞满了多节的包袱，把花交给她拿着，撑起那把旧伞，他们又继续前行。

‘Miss Marsch, I haf a great favor to ask of you,’ began the Professor, after a moist promenade of half a block.
“马什小姐，我有一个很大的请求你帮个忙，”教授在走过半个街区的潮湿长廊后说道。

‘Yes, sir.’ And Jo’s heart began to beat so hard she was afraid he would hear it.
“是的，先生。”乔的心开始剧烈跳动，她担心他会听到。

‘I am bold to say it in spite of the rain, because so short a time remains to me.’
“尽管下着雨，我还是大胆地说出这句话，因为留给我的时间已经不多了。”

‘Yes, sir.’ And Jo nearly crushed the small flowerpot with the sudden squeeze she gave it.
“是的，先生。”乔突然一挤压，差点把小花盆压碎。

‘I wish to get a little dress for my Tina, and I am too stupid to go alone. Will you kindly gif me a word of taste and help?’
“我想给我的蒂娜买一件小裙子，但我太笨了，不敢一个人去。”请您给我一些品味和帮助吗？

‘Yes, sir.’ And JO felt as calm and cool all of a sudden as if she had stepped into a refrigerator.
“是的，先生。”乔突然感到平静和凉爽，就像踏进了冰箱一样。

‘Perhaps also a shawl for Tina’s mother, she is so poor and sick, and the husband is such a care. Yes, yes, a thick, warm shawl would be a friendly thing to take the little mother.’
‘也许还给蒂娜的母亲一条披肩，她又穷又病，而丈夫又如此照顾。是的，是的，给小妈妈带一条又厚又温暖的披肩会很友好。”

‘I’ll do it with pleasure, Mr. Bhaer. I’m going very fast, and he’s getting dearer every minute,’ added Jo to herself, then with a mental shake she entered into the business with an energy that was pleasant to behold. Mr. Bhaer left it all to her, so she chose a pretty gown for Tina, and then ordered out the shawls. The clerk, being a married man, condescended to take an interest in the couple, who appeared to be shopping for their family.
“我很乐意这样做，巴尔先生。我走得很快，而他每分钟都在变得更贵。”乔自言自语道，然后她精神抖擞地进入了这个行业，带着一种令人愉悦的活力。巴尔先生把这一切都交给了她，所以她为蒂娜挑选了一件漂亮的礼服，然后订购了披肩。店员是一名已婚男子，他屈尊对这对夫妇产生了兴趣，这对夫妇似乎是在为家人购物。

‘Your lady may prefer this. It’s a superior article, a most desirable color, quite chaste and genteel,’ he said, shaking out a comfortable gray shawl, and throwing it over Jo’s shoulders.
“您的女士可能更喜欢这个。这是一件上乘的物品，一种最令人向往的颜色，非常贞洁和文雅，”他一边说，一边抖出一条舒适的灰色披肩，披在乔的肩上。

‘Does this suit you, Mr. Bhaer?’ she asked, turning her back to him, and feeling deeply grateful for the chance of hiding her face. ‘Excellently well, we will haf it,’ answered the Professor, smiling to himself as he paid for it, while Jo continued to rummage the counters like a confirmed bargain-hunter.
“这适合你吗，巴尔先生？”她转身背对着他问道，并为有机会遮住自己的脸而深感感激。 “很好，我们会买的。”教授一边付钱，一边微笑着回答，而乔继续像一个坚定的讨价还价者一样在柜台上翻找。

‘Now shall we go home?’ he asked, as if the words were very pleasant to him.
“现在我们回家吧？”他问道，好像这句话让他很高兴。

‘Yes, it’s late, and I’m so tired.’ Jo’s voice was more pathetic than she knew. For now the sun seemed to have gone in as suddenly as it came out, and the world grew muddy and miserable again, and for the first time she discovered that her feet were cold, her head ached, and that her heart was colder than the former, fuller of pain than the latter. Mr. Bhaer was going away, he only cared for her as a friend, it was all a mistake, and the sooner it was over the better. With this idea in her head, she hailed an approaching omnibus with such a hasty gesture that the daisies flew out of the pot and were badly damaged.
“是的，很晚了，我太累了。”乔的声音比她想象的还要可怜。此时，太阳似乎进来又出来又突然，世界又变得浑浊而悲惨，她第一次发现自己的脚冷，头疼，心比外面还冷。前者比后者更加痛苦。巴尔先生要走了，他只把她当朋友，这都是一个错误，越早结束越好。有了这个想法，她急忙招呼一辆驶来的公共汽车，结果雏菊从花盆里飞了出来，受到了严重损坏。

‘This is not our omniboos,’ said the Professor, waving the loaded vehicle away, and stopping to pick up the poor little flowers.
“这不是我们的万能药，”教授说，挥手把满载的车辆开走，然后停下来捡起可怜的小花。

‘I beg your pardon. I didn’t see the name distinctly. Never mind, I can walk. I’m used to plodding in the mud,’ returned Jo, winking hard, because she would have died rather than openly wipe her eyes. Mr. Bhaer saw the drops on her cheeks, though she turned her head away. The sight seemed to touch him very much, for suddenly stooping down, he asked in a tone that meant a great deal, ‘Heart’s dearest, why do you cry?’
'请再说一遍。我没有清楚地看到这个名字。没关系，我可以走路。我已经习惯了在泥巴里艰难前行。”乔回答道，使劲眨着眼睛，因为如果不公开地擦眼睛，她宁愿死。尽管她转过头去，巴尔先生还是看到了她脸颊上的泪珠。这一幕似乎让他很感动，他突然弯下腰，用意味深长的语气问道：“亲爱的，你为什么哭？”

Now, if Jo had not been new to this sort of thing she would have said she wasn’t crying, had a cold in her head, or told any other feminine fib proper to the occasion. Instead of which, that undignified creature answered, with an irrepressible sob, ‘Because you are going away.’
现在，如果乔不是刚接触过这类事情，她会说她没有哭，脑子里感冒了，或者在这个场合撒了任何其他女性的小谎。相反，那个有损尊严的生物却用无法抑制的抽泣回答道：“因为你要走了。”

‘Ach, mein Gott, that is so good!’ cried Mr. Bhaer, managing to clasp his hands in spite of the umbrella and the bundles, ‘Jo, I haf nothing but much love to gif you. I came to see if you could care for it, and I waited to be sure that I was something more than a friend. Am I? Can you make a little place in your heart for old Fritz?’ he added, all in one breath.
“啊，我的天，那太好了！”巴尔先生喊道，尽管手里拿着雨伞和包裹，他还是设法握紧了双手，“乔，我除了非常爱你之外什么也没有。”我来看看你是否能照顾它，我等待着确定我不仅仅是一个朋友。我是吗？你能在心里为老弗里茨留出一点位置吗？”他一口气补充道。

‘Oh, yes!’ said Jo, and he was quite satisfied, for she folded both hands over his are, and looked up at him with an expression that plainly showed how happy she would be to walk through life beside him, even though she had no better shelter than the old umbrella, if he carried it.
“哦，是的！”乔说，他很满意，因为她双手交叉放在他的胸前，抬头看着他，脸上的表情清楚地表明她会多么高兴能和他一起度过一生，尽管她如果他带着那把旧伞，没有什么比这把伞更好的庇护所了。

It was certainly proposing under difficulties, for even if he had desired to do so, Mr. Bhaer could not go down upon his knees, on account of the mud. Neither could he offer Jo his hand, except figuratively, for both were full. Much less could he indulge in tender remonstrations in the open street, though he was near it. So the only way in which he could express his rapture was to look at her, with an expression which glorified his face to such a degree that there actually seemed to be little rainbows in the drops that sparkled on his beard. If he had not loved Jo very much, I don’t think he could have done it then, for she looked far from lovely, with her skirts in a deplorable state, her rubber boots splashed to the ankle, and her bonnet a ruin. Fortunately, Mr. Bhaer considered her the most beautiful woman living, and she found him more ‘Jove-like’ than ever, though his hatbrim was quite limp with the little rills trickling thence upon his shoulders (for he held the umbrella all over Jo), and every finger of his gloves needed mending.
这当然是在困难中求婚，因为即使巴尔先生愿意这样做，他也不能跪下，因为泥泞。他也不能向乔伸出手，除非是象征性的，因为两只手都握满了。他更不能在空旷的街道上进行温柔的抗议，尽管他离街道很近。因此，他能表达自己狂喜的唯一方式就是看着她，他的表情使他的脸变得如此美丽，以至于他胡须上闪闪发光的水滴实际上似乎有小彩虹。如果他不是很爱乔，我想他当时就不可能这么做，因为她看起来一点也不可爱，裙子破烂不堪，橡胶靴溅到了脚踝，帽子也成了废墟。幸运的是，巴尔先生认为她是世上最美丽的女人，她发现他比以往任何时候都更像“朱庇特”，尽管他的帽檐很软，小溪流淌在他的肩膀上（因为他把伞打在乔身上） ），他手套的每根手指都需要修补。

Passers-by probably thought them a pair of harmless lunatics, for they entirely forgot to hail a bus, and strolled leisurely along, oblivious of deepening dusk and fog. Little they cared what anybody thought, for they were enjoying the happy hour that seldom comes but once in any life, the magical moment which bestows youth on the old, beauty on the plain, wealth on the poor, and gives human hearts a foretaste of heaven. The Professor looked as if he had conquered a kingdom, and the world had nothing more to offer him in the way of bliss. While Jo trudged beside him, feeling as if her place had always been there, and wondering how she ever could have chosen any other lot. Of course, she was the first to speak—intelligibly, I mean, for the emotional remarks which followed her impetuous ‘Oh, yes!’ were not of a coherent or reportable character.
路人大概以为他们是一对无害的疯子，因为他们完全忘记了叫车，悠闲地走着，完全不顾暮色和雾气的浓重。他们不在乎别人怎么想，因为他们正在享受一生中难得一遇的幸福时光，这是一个神奇的时刻，它给老年人带来青春，给平原带来美丽，给穷人带来财富，让人们的心灵预尝幸福的滋味。天堂。教授看上去仿佛征服了一个王国，而世界上再也没有什么可以给他带来幸福了。乔在他身边艰难地走着，感觉好像她的位置一直在那里，并想知道她怎么可能选择其他的地段。当然，她是第一个开口说话的人——我的意思是，她的话语是可以理解的，因为在她急躁的“哦，是的！”之后的情感评论并不具有连贯性或可报道性。

‘Friedrich, why didn’t you...’
“弗里德里希，你为什么不……”

‘Ah, heaven, she gifs me the name that no one speaks since Minna died!’ cried the Professor, pausing in a puddle to regard her with grateful delight.
“啊，天哪，她给了我一个自从明娜死后就没人提过的名字！”教授喊道，在水坑里停下来，满怀感激和喜悦地看着她。

‘I always call you so to myself—I forgot, but I won’t unless you like it.’
“我总是这样称呼你——我忘了​​，但除非你喜欢，否则我不会。”

‘Like it? It is more sweet to me than I can tell. Say ‘thou’, also, and I shall say your language is almost as beautiful as mine.’
'喜欢它？这对我来说比我能说的还要甜蜜。也说“你”，我会说你的语言几乎和我的一样美丽。

‘Isn’t ‘thou’ a little sentimental?’ asked Jo, privately thinking it a lovely monosyllable.
“‘你’不是有点多愁善感吗？”乔问道，私下认为这是一个可爱的单音节词。

‘Sentimental? Yes. Thank Gott, we Germans believe in sentiment, and keep ourselves young mit it. Your English ‘you’ is so cold, say ‘thou’, heart’s dearest, it means so much to me,’ pleaded Mr. Bhaer, more like a romantic student than a grave professor.
‘感性？是的。感谢戈特，我们德国人相信情感，并以此保持年轻。你的英语“你”太冷了，说“你”，心是最亲爱的，这对我来说意义重大。”巴尔先生恳求道，他更像是一个浪漫的学生，而不是一位严肃的教授。

‘Well, then, why didn’t thou tell me all this sooner?’ asked Jo bashfully.
“那么，你为什么不早点告诉我这一切呢？”乔害羞地问。

‘Now I shall haf to show thee all my heart, and I so gladly will, because thou must take care of it hereafter. See, then, my Jo—ah, the dear, funny little name—I had a wish to tell something the day I said goodbye in New York, but I thought the handsome friend was betrothed to thee, and so I spoke not. Wouldst thou have said ‘Yes’, then, if I had spoken?’
“现在我必须向你展示我的全部心，我很乐意这样做，因为你以后必须照顾它。那么，瞧，我的乔——啊，这个亲爱的、有趣的小名字——在纽约告别的那天，我本来想告诉一些事情，但我以为这位英俊的朋友已经与你订婚了，所以我没有说话。那么，如果我开口的话，你会说‘是’吗？

‘I don’t know. I’m afraid not, for I didn’t have any heart just then.’
'我不知道。恐怕没有，因为我当时没有心。

‘Prut! That I do not believe. It was asleep till the fairy prince came through the wood, and waked it up. Ah, well, ‘Die erste Liebe ist die beste’, but that I should not expect.’
‘普鲁特！我不相信。它一直睡着，直到童话王子穿过树林，把它叫醒。啊，好吧，“Die erste Liebe ist die beste”，但我不应该期待这一点。

‘Yes, the first love is the best, but be so contented, for I never had another. Teddy was only a boy, and soon got over his little fancy,’ said Jo, anxious to correct the Professor’s mistake.
“是的，初恋是最好的，但要知足，因为我从未有过第二次。”泰迪只是个小男孩，很快就克服了他的小幻想。”乔急于纠正教授的错误说道。

‘Good! Then I shall rest happy, and be sure that thou givest me all. I haf waited so long, I am grown selfish, as thou wilt find , Professorin.’
'好的！然后我就会幸福地休息，并确信你会给予我一切。我等了这么久，我变得自私了，教授，你会发现的。

‘I like that,’ cried Jo, delighted with her new name. ‘Now tell me what brought you, at last, just when I wanted you?’
“我喜欢这个，”乔喊道，她对自己的新名字很满意。 “现在告诉我，当我需要你的时候，是什么最终把你带来了？”

‘This.’ And Mr. Bhaer took a little worn paper out of his waistcoat pocket.
“这个。”巴尔先生从背心口袋里拿出一张破旧的纸。

Jo unfolded it, and looked much abashed, for it was one of her own contributions to a paper that paid for poetry, which accounted for her sending it an occasional attempt.
乔打开它，看起来很尴尬，因为这是她自己为一份付费诗歌的报纸所做的贡献之一，这就是她偶尔尝试发送它的原因。

‘How could that bring you?’ she asked, wondering what he meant.
“那怎么会带你来？”她问道，想知道他的意思。

‘I found it by chance. I knew it by the names and the initials, and in it there was one little verse that seemed to call me. Read and find him. I will see that you go not in the wet.’
‘我偶然发现的。我通过名字和首字母认识了它，里面有一首小诗似乎在呼唤我。阅读并找到他。我会确保你不会湿身而去。

IN THE GARRET
在阁楼里


Four little chests all in a row,
四个小箱子排成一排，

Dim with dust, and worn by time,
因灰尘而黯淡，因时间而磨损，

All fashioned and filled, long ago,
很久以前，一切都已成型并充满了，

By children now in their prime.
正值青春年华的孩子们。

Four little keys hung side by side,
四把小钥匙并排挂着，

With faded ribbons, brave and gay
带着褪色的丝带，勇敢而快乐

When fastened there, with childish pride,
当带着孩子般的自豪感固定在那里时，

Long ago, on a rainy day.
很久以前，一个下雨天。

Four little names, one on each lid,
四个小名字，每个盖子上一个，

Carved out by a boyish hand,
由孩子气的双手雕刻而成，

And underneath there lieth hid
下面隐藏着

Histories of the happpy band
快乐乐队的历史

Once playing here, and pausing oft
曾经在这里玩过，经常停下来

To hear the sweet refrain,
听到甜蜜的副歌，

That came and went on the roof aloft,
它在高处的屋顶上来来去去，

In the falling summer rain.
在夏日的细雨中。


‘Meg’ on the first lid, smooth and fair.
第一个盖子上写着“Meg”，光滑、白皙。

I look in with loving eyes,
我用充满爱意的眼神看着

For folded here, with well-known care,
为了折叠在这里，以众所周知的护理，

A goodly gathering lies,
美好的聚会谎言，

The record of a peaceful life—
平静生活的记录——

Gifts to gentle child and girl,
送给温柔的孩子和女孩的礼物，

A bridal gown, lines to a wife,
一件新娘礼服，一条对妻子的台词，

A tiny shoe, a baby curl.
一只小鞋，一头婴儿卷发。

No toys in this first chest remain,
第一个箱子里没有玩具了，

For all are carried away,
因为一切都被带走了，

In their old age, to join again
到了晚年，再次相聚

In another small Meg’s play.
在另一部小梅格的剧中。

Ah, happy mother! Well I know
啊，幸福的妈妈！好吧，我知道

You hear, like a sweet refrain,
你听到，就像一首甜蜜的副歌，

Lullabies ever soft and low
摇篮曲轻柔低沉

In the falling summer rain.
在夏日的细雨中。


‘Jo’ on the next lid, scratched and worn,
下一个盖子上写着“乔”，有划痕和磨损，

And within a motley store
在一家杂货店内

Of headless, dolls, of schoolbooks torn,
无头的娃娃，撕破的教科书，

Birds and beasts that speak no more,
鸟兽不再说话，

Spoils brought home from the fairy ground
从仙境带回家的战利品

Only trod by youthful feet,
只被青春的脚踩过，

Dreams of a future never found,
未来的梦想从未找到，

Memories of a past still sweet,
过去的回忆依然甜蜜

Half-writ poems, stories wild,
半写的诗，狂野的故事，

April letters, warm and cold,
四月的信件，温暖和寒冷，

Diaries of a wilful child,
任性孩子的日记，

Hints of a woman early old,
女人早老的暗示，

A woman in a lonely home,
一个女人在一个孤独的家里，

Hearing, like a sad refrain—
听到，像悲伤的副歌——

‘Be worthy, love, and love will come,’
“值得，爱，爱就会到来”

In the falling summer rain.
在夏日的细雨中。


My Beth! the dust is always swept
我的贝丝！尘埃总被扫去

From the lid that bears your name,
从刻有你名字的盖子上，

As if by loving eyes that wept,
仿佛用慈爱的眼睛流泪，

By careful hands that often came.
常常是由小心翼翼的人来的。

Death cannonized for us one saint,
死亡为我们一位圣人而颂扬，

Ever less human than divine,
人性远不如神性，

And still we lay, with tender plaint,
我们仍然躺着，带着温柔的哀叹，

Relics in this household shrine—
这座家庭神龛里的遗物——

The silver bell, so seldom rung,
银铃很少敲响，

The little cap which last she wore,
她最后戴的那顶小帽子，

The fair, dead Catherine that hung
美丽的死去的凯瑟琳挂在墙上

By angels borne above her door.
由天使在她的门上方升起。

The songs she sang, without lament,
她唱的歌，没有哀伤，

In her prison-house of pain,
在她痛苦的监狱里，

Forever are they sweetly blent
它们永远甜蜜地混合在一起

With the falling summer rain.
随着夏雨的飘落。


Upon the last lid’s polished field—
在最后一个盖子抛光的区域上——

Legend now both fair and true
传说现在既公平又真实

A gallant knight bears on his shield,
一位英勇的骑士手持盾牌，

‘Amy’ in letters gold and blue.
金色和蓝色字母“Amy”。

Within lie snoods that bound her hair,
里面裹着她的头发，

Slippers that have danced their last,
已跳完最后一舞的拖鞋，

Faded flowers laid by with care,
凋谢的花朵被小心地放置，

Fans whose airy toils are past,
那些轻飘飘的辛劳已经成为过去的粉丝们，

Gay valentines, all ardent flames,
同性恋情人节，所有炽热的火焰，

Trifles that have borne their part
承担其责任的琐事

In girlish hopes and fears and shames,
在少女般的希望、恐惧和羞耻中，

The record of a maiden heart
少女心的记录

Now learning fairer, truer spells,
现在学习更公平、更真实的咒语，

Hearing, like a blithe refrain,
听着，像轻快的副歌，

The silver sound of bridal bells
银色的新娘铃声

In the falling summer rain.
在夏日的细雨中。


Four little chests all in a row,
四个小箱子排成一排，

Dim with dust, and worn by time,
因灰尘而黯淡，因时间而磨损，

Four women, taught by weal and woe
四个女人，患难与共

To love and labor in their prime.
在盛年时去爱和劳动。

Four sisters, parted for an hour,
四姐妹，分开一个小时，

None lost, one only gone before,
没有一个失去，只有一个之前消失了，

Made by love’s immortal power,
由爱的不朽力量所创造，

Nearest and dearest evermore.
永远最亲近、最亲爱的。

Oh, when these hidden stores of ours
哦，当我们这些隐藏的商店

Lie open to the Father’s sight,
躺在天父的眼前，

May they be rich in golden hours,
愿他们在黄金时光里富有，

Deeds that show fairer for the light,
为光明而显出更公平的行为，

Lives whose brave music long shall ring,
那些勇敢的音乐将长久响起的生命，

Like a spirit-stirring strain,
犹如一股振奋人心的曲调，

Souls that shall gladly soar and sing
那些将高兴地翱翔和歌唱的灵魂

In the long sunshine after rain.
雨后漫长的阳光下。

‘It’s very bad poetry, but I felt it when I wrote it, one day when I was very lonely, and had a good cry on a rag bag. I never thought it would go where it could tell tales,’ said Jo, tearing up the verses the Professor had treasured so long.
“这是一首非常糟糕的诗，但当我写它时，我感觉到了，有一天，当我非常孤独时，我在破布袋上痛哭了一场。我从没想过它会去到可以讲故事的地方。”乔一边说，一边撕碎了教授珍藏已久的诗句。

‘Let it go, it has done it’s duty, and I will haf a fresh one when I read all the brown book in which she keeps her little secrets,’ said Mr. Bhaer with a smile as he watched the fragments fly away on the wind. ‘Yes,’ he added earnestly, ‘I read that, and I think to myself, She has a sorrow, she is lonely, she would find comfort in true love. I haf a heart full, full for her. Shall I not go and say, ‘If this is not too poor a thing to gif for what I shall hope to receive, take it in Gott’s name?’
“随它去吧，它已经完成了它的职责，当我读完她在其中保留小秘密的所有棕色书时，我会得到一本新的，”巴尔先生笑着说，他看着碎片在空中飞走。风。 “是的，”他认真地补充道，“我读到了这篇文章，我心里想，她有悲伤，她很孤独，她会在真爱中找到安慰。”我的心充满了，充满了她。难道我不应该去说：“如果这不是一件太糟糕的事情，无法满足我希望收到的东西，请以戈特的名义接受它？”

‘And so you came to find that it was not too poor, but the one precious thing I needed,’ whispered Jo.
“所以你才发现，这里并不是太穷，而是我需要的一件珍贵的东西，”乔低声说道。

‘I had no courage to think that at first, heavenly kind as was your welcome to me. But soon I began to hope, and then I said, ‘I will haf her if I die for it,’ and so I will!’ cried Mr. Bhaer, with a defiant nod, as if the walls of mist closing round them were barriers which he was to surmount or valiantly knock down.
“一开始我没有勇气这么想，就像你对我的欢迎一样，是天堂般的善意。但很快我就开始抱有希望，然后我说，“如果我为此而死，我也会拥有她，”所以我会的！”巴尔先生大声说道，挑衅地点点头，仿佛包围他们的雾墙是他要克服或勇敢地击倒的障碍。

Jo thought that was splendid, and resolved to be worthy of her knight, though he did not come prancing on a charger in gorgeous array.
乔觉得这太棒了，并决心配得上她的骑士，尽管他并没有在华丽的队列中骑着战马腾跃而来。

‘What made you stay away so long?’ she asked presently, finding it so pleasant to ask confidential questions and get delightful answers that she could not keep silent.
“是什么让你离开这么久？”不久，她问道，发现提出秘密问题并得到令人愉快的答案是如此令人愉快，以至于她无法保持沉默。

‘It was not easy, but I could not find the heart to take you from that so happy home until I could haf a prospect of one to gif you, after much time, perhaps, and hard work. How could I ask you to gif up so much for a poor old fellow, who has no fortune but a little learning?’
“这并不容易，但我无法忍心带你离开那个如此幸福的家，直到我有一个机会可以送给你一个礼物，也许经过很多时间和努力。我怎么能要求你为一个可怜的老家伙捐出这么多礼物，他没有财产，但学识很少呢？

‘I’m glad you are poor. I couldn’t bear a rich husband,’ said Jo decidedly, adding in a softer tone, ‘Don’t fear poverty. I’ve known it long enough to lose my dread and be happy working for those I love, and don’t call yourself old—forty is the prime of life. I couldn’t help loving you if you were seventy!’
‘我很高兴你很穷。我无法忍受一个有钱的丈夫，”乔坚决地说，并用更柔和的语气补充道，“不要害怕贫穷。我早就知道要丢掉恐惧，快乐地为我爱的人工作，不要称自己老——四十岁是人生的巅峰。如果你七十岁了，我会忍不住爱你！

The Professor found that so touching that he would have been glad of his handkerchief, if he could have got at it. As her couldn’t, Jo wiped his eyes for him, and said, laughing, as she took away a bundle or two...
教授觉得这太令人感动了，如果他能拿到手帕的话，他会很高兴的。由于她做不到，乔帮他擦了擦眼睛，一边笑着说，一边拿走了一两包……

‘I may be strong-minded, but no one can say I’m out of my sphere now, for woman’s special mission is supposed to be drying tears and bearing burdens. I’m to carry my share, Friedrich, and help to earn the home. Make up your mind to that, or I’ll never go,’ she added resolutely, as he tried to reclaim his load.
“我可能意志坚强，但现在没人能说我脱离了我的范围，因为女人的特殊使命就是擦干眼泪、承担重担。”弗里德里希，我要承担我的那一份，并帮助赚钱养家。你下定决心，否则我永远不会去。”当他试图拿回他的行李时，她坚定地补充道。

‘We shall see. Haf you patience to wait a long time, Jo? I must go away and do my work alone. I must help my boys first, because, even for you, I may not break my word to Minna. Can you forgif that, and be happy while we hope and wait?’
‘我们将会看到。乔，你能耐心等待很长时间吗？我必须离开并独自完成我的工作。我必须首先帮助我的孩子们，因为即使是为了你们，我也不会违背对明娜的诺言。你能原谅这一点，并在我们希望和等待的同时感到高兴吗？

‘Yes, I know I can, for we love one another, and that makes all the rest easy to bear. I have my duty, also, and my work. I couldn’t enjoy myself if I neglected them even for you, so there’s no need of hurry or impatience. You can do your part out West, I can do mine here, and both be happy hoping for the best, and leaving the future to be as God wills.’
“是的，我知道我可以，因为我们彼此相爱，这让剩下的一切都变得容易忍受。我也有我的职责和我的工作。即使是为了你而忽视它们，我也无法享受自己，所以不必着急或不耐烦。你可以在西部尽你的一份力，我可以在这里尽我的一份力，两人都会很高兴地期待最好的结果，让未来如上帝所愿。

‘Ah! Thou gifest me such hope and courage, and I haf nothing to gif back but a full heart and these empty hands,’ cried the Professor, quite overcome.
'啊！你给了我如此的希望和勇气，而我除了一颗饱满的心和空空的双手之外什么也没有回报，”教授大声喊道，他完全被征服了。

Jo never, never would learn to be proper, for when he said that as they stood upon the steps, she just put both hands into his, whispering tenderly, ‘Not empty now,’ and stooping down, kissed her Friedrich under the umbrella. It was dreadful, but she would have done it if the flock of draggle-tailed sparrows on the hedge had been human beings, for she was very far gone indeed, and quite regardless of everything but her own happiness. Though it came in such a very simple guise, that was the crowning moment of both their lives, when, turning from the night and storm and loneliness to the household light and warmth and peace waiting to receive them, with a glad ‘Welcome home!’ Jo led her lover in, and shut the door.
乔永远、永远学不会得体，因为当他说他们站在台阶上时，她只是把手放在他的手里，温柔地低声说：“现在不空了。”然后弯下腰，在伞下吻了她的弗里德里希。这太可怕了，但如果树篱上的那群拖尾麻雀是人类的话，她也会这么做的，因为她确实已经走得很远了，除了她自己的幸福之外，她完全不顾一切。尽管它以如此简单的形式出现，但这却是他们生命中最辉煌的时刻，从黑夜、暴风雨和孤独转向家庭的光明、温暖与和平，等待着他们，带着高兴的“欢迎回家！” ”乔领着她的爱人进来，关上门。

CHAPTER FORTY-SEVEN
第四十七章

For a year Jo and her Professor worked and waited, hoped and loved, met occasionally, and wrote such voluminous letters that the rise in the price of paper was accounted for, Laurie said. The second year began rather soberly, for their prospects did not brighten, and Aunt March died suddenly. But when their first sorrow was over—for they loved the old lady in spite of her sharp tongue—they found they had cause for rejoicing, for she had left Plumfield to Jo, which made all sorts of joyful things possible.
劳格理说，一年来，乔和她的教授工作、等待、希望、爱，偶尔见面，写了大量的信件，导致纸张价格上涨。第二年开始时相当清醒，因为他们的前景并不光明，马奇姨妈突然去世了。但当他们的第一个悲伤过去时——因为尽管老太太说话尖刻，但他们还是爱她——他们发现自己有理由高兴，因为她把普拉姆菲尔德留给了乔，这使得各种快乐的事情成为可能。

‘It’s a fine old place, and will bring a handsome sum, for of course you intend to sell it,’ said Laurie, as they were all talking the matter over some weeks later.
“这是一个很好的老地方，会带来一笔可观的收入，因为你当然打算卖掉它，”劳里说，几周后他们都在谈论这件事。

‘No, I don’t,’ was Jo’s decided answer, as she petted the fat poodle, whom she had adopted, out of respect to his former mistress.
“不，我不喜欢。”乔坚定地回答道，她抚摸着这只肥胖的贵宾犬，这是她出于对他前情妇的尊重而收养的。

‘You don’t mean to live there?’
“你不想住在那里吗？”

‘Yes, I do.’
'是的，我愿意。'

‘But, my dear girl, it’s an immense house, and will take a power of money to keep it in order. The garden and orchard alone need two or three men, and farming isn’t in Bhaer’s line, I take it.’
“但是，我亲爱的女孩，这是一座巨大的房子，需要金钱的力量才能维持它的秩序。光是花园和果园就需要两三个人，而且我认为务农不符合巴尔的风格。

‘He’ll try his hand at it there, if I propose it.’
“如果我提议的话，他会在那里尝试一下。”

‘And you expect to live on the produce of the place? Well, that sounds paradisiacal, but you’ll find it desperate hard work.’
“你希望靠当地的农产品为生吗？”嗯，这听起来很天堂，但你会发现这是一项令人绝望的艰苦工作。

‘The crop we are going to raise is a profitable one,’ And Jo laughed.
“我们要种植的作物是有利可图的，”乔笑道。

‘Of what is this fine crop to consist, ma’am?’
“女士，这美好的庄稼是由什么制成的？”

‘Boys. I want to open a school for little lads—a good, happy, homelike school, with me to take care of them and Fritz to teach them.’ ‘That’s a truly Joian plan for you! Isn’t that just like her?’ cried Laurie, appealing to the family, who looked as much surprised as he.
'男孩们。我想为小伙子们开办一所学校——一所美好、快乐、像家一样的学校，由我来照顾他们，由弗里茨来教他们。” “这对你来说是一个真正的乔安计划！ “这不是像她吗？”劳里向家人喊道，他们看上去和他一样感到惊讶。

‘I like it,’ said Mrs. March decidedly.
“我喜欢它，”马奇夫人斩钉截铁地说。

‘So do I,’ added her husband, who welcomed the thought of a chance for trying the Socratic method of education on modern youth.
“我也是，”她的丈夫补充道，他很高兴有机会在现代年轻人身上尝试苏格拉底式的教育方法。

‘It will be an immense care for Jo,’ said Meg, stroking the head or her one all-absorbing son.
“这对乔来说将是一种巨大的照顾，”梅格说，抚摸着她全神贯注的儿子的头。

‘Jo can do it, and be happy in it. It’s a splendid idea. Tell us all about it,’ cried Mr. Laurence, who had been longing to lend the lovers a hand, but knew that they would refuse his help.
“乔可以做到，并且乐在其中。这是一个很棒的主意。告诉我们一切吧，”劳伦斯先生喊道，他一直渴望向这对恋人伸出援手，但知道他们会拒绝他的帮助。

‘I knew you’d stand by me, sir. Amy does too—I see it in her eyes, though she prudently waits to turn it over in her mind before she speaks. Now, my dear people,’ continued Jo earnestly, ‘just understand that this isn’t a new idea of mine, but a long cherished plan. Before my Fritz came, I used to think how, when I’d made my fortune, and no one needed me at home, I’d hire a big house, and pick up some poor, forlorn little lads who hadn’t any mothers, and take care of them, and make life jolly for them before it was too late. I see so many going to ruin for want of help at the right minute, I love so to do anything for them, I seem to feel their wants, and sympathize with their troubles, and oh, I should so like to be a mother to them!’
“我知道你会站在我这边，先生。艾米也是如此——我从她的眼睛里看到了这一点，尽管她在说话之前谨慎地等待着在脑海中翻阅它。现在，我亲爱的人们，”乔真诚地继续说道，“请明白，这不是我的一个新想法，而是一个长期珍视的计划。在我的弗里茨来之前，我常常想，当我发了财，家里没有人需要我时，我会租一栋大房子，并接一些可怜的、被遗弃的、没有母亲的小男孩。 ，照顾他们，让他们的生活变得快乐，以免为时已晚。我看到很多人因为在适当的时候缺乏帮助而走向破产，我很喜欢为他们做任何事情，我似乎能感觉到他们的需要，并同情他们的麻烦，哦，我真想成为他们的母亲他们！'

Mrs. March held out her hand to Jo, who took it, smiling, with tears in her eyes, and went on in the old enthusiastic way, which they had not seen for a long while.
马奇太太向乔伸出手，乔接过她的手，微笑着，眼里含着泪水，继续以他们已经很久没有见到的那种热情的方式继续说道。

‘I told my plan to Fritz once, and he said it was just what he would like, and agreed to try it when we got rich. Bless his dear heart, he’s been doing it all his life—helping poor boys, I mean, not getting rich, that he’ll never be. Money doesn’t stay in his pocket long enough to lay up any. But now, thanks to my good old aunt, who loved me better than I ever deserved, I’m rich, at least I feel so, and we can live at Plumfield perfectly well, if we have a flourishing school. It’s just the place for boys, the house is big, and the furniture strong and plain. There’s plenty of room for dozens inside, and splendid grounds outside. They could help in the garden and orchard. Such work is healthy, isn’t it, sir? Then Fritz could train and teach in his own way, and Father will help him. I can feed and nurse and pet and scold them, and Mother will be my stand-by. I’ve always longed for lots of boys, and never had enough, now I can fill the house full and revel in the little dears to my heart’s content. Think what luxury— Plumfield my own, and a wilderness of boys to enjoy it with me.’
“我把我的计划告诉了弗里茨一次，他说这正是他想要的，并同意等我们有钱了就尝试一下。祝福他亲爱的心，他一生都在做这件事——帮助贫穷的男孩，我的意思是，不是变得富有，他永远不会变得富有。钱在他口袋里停留的时间不够长，无法存起来。但现在，多亏了我善良的老阿姨，她比我应得的更爱我，我很富有，至少我是这么感觉的，如果我们有一所蓬勃发展的学校，我们就可以在普拉姆菲尔德生活得很好。这里只是男孩子住的地方，房子很大，家具坚固而朴素。里面有足够的空间容纳数十人，外面的场地也很漂亮。他们可以帮忙打理花园和果园。这样的工作是健康的，不是吗，先生？然后弗里茨就可以用自己的方式训练和教学，父亲也会帮助他。我可以喂它们、喂它们、抚摸它们、责骂它们，而妈妈会是我的后盾。我一直渴望有很多男孩，却从来没有满足过，现在我可以填满整个房子，尽情享受小宝贝们的陪伴。想想看，多么奢侈啊——我自己的普拉姆菲尔德，还有一大群男孩和我一起享受它。

As Jo waved her hands and gave a sigh of rapture, the family went off into a gale of merriment, and Mr. Laurence laughed till they thought he’d have an apoplectic fit.
当乔挥舞着双手，欣喜若狂地叹了口气时，一家人陷入了一阵欢乐，劳伦斯先生笑得他们以为他要中风了。

‘I don’t see anything funny,’ she said gravely, when she could be heard. ‘Nothing could be more natural and proper than for my Professor to open a school, and for me to prefer to reside in my own estate.’
“我没觉得有什么好笑的，”当她的声音被听见时，她严肃地说。 “没有什么比我的教授开设一所学校，而我更喜欢住在自己的庄园里更自然和合适的了。”

‘She is putting on airs already,’ said Laurie, who regarded the idea in the light of a capital joke. ‘But may I inquire how you intend to support the establishment? If all the pupils are little ragamuffins, I’m afraid your crop won’t be profitable in a worldly sense, Mr. Bhaer.’
“她已经在摆架子了，”劳里说，他把这个想法视为一个大笑话。 “但是我可以问一下你打算如何支持这个机构吗？”如果所有的学生都是小破烂，我担心你的庄稼在世俗意义上不会有利可图，巴尔先生。

‘Now don’t be a wet-blanket, Teddy. Of course I shall have rich pupils, also—perhaps begin with such altogether. Then, when I’ve got a start, I can take in a ragamuffin or two, just for a relish. Rich people’s children often need care and comfort, as well as poor. I’ve seen unfortunate little creatures left to servants, or backward ones pushed forward, when it’s real cruelty. Some are naughty through mismanagment or neglect, and some lose their mothers. Besides, the best have to get through the hobbledehoy age, and that’s the very time they need most patience and kindness. People laugh at them, and hustle them about, try to keep them out of sight, and expect them to turn all at once from pretty children into fine young men. They don’t complain much— plucky little souls—but they feel it. I’ve been through something of it, and I know all about it. I’ve a special interest in such young bears, and like to show them that I see the warm, honest, well-meaning boys’ hearts, in spite of the clumsy arms and legs and the topsy-turvy heads. I’ve had experience, too, for haven’t I brought up one boy to be a pride and honor to his family?’
“现在不要成为一个湿毯子，泰迪。当然，我也会有富有的学生——也许就从这些学生开始吧。然后，当我开始时，我可以吃一两块破布，只是为了津津有味。富人的孩子常常需要照顾和安慰，穷人的孩子也是如此。我见过不幸的小动物被留给仆人，或者落后的动物被推到前面，这真是残酷。有些人因管理不善或疏忽而调皮，有些人失去了母亲。此外，最优秀的人都必须度过蹒跚学步的年龄，而这正是他们最需要耐心和仁慈的时期。人们嘲笑他们，催促他们，试图让他们远离人们的视线，并期望他们一下子从漂亮的孩子变成优秀的年轻人。他们并没有太多抱怨——勇敢的小灵魂——但他们感觉到了。我经历过一些事情，我知道这一切。我对这些小熊特别感兴趣，并喜欢向它们展示我看到了温暖、诚实、善意的男孩之心，尽管它们的胳膊和腿笨拙，脑袋也乱七八糟。我也有过经验，因为我养大的男孩不是让他的家人感到骄傲和荣耀吗？

‘I’ll testify that you tried to do it,’ said Laurie with a grateful look.
“我可以证明你曾尝试过这样做，”劳里满脸感激地说。

‘And I’ve succeeded beyond my hopes, for here you are, a steady, sensible businessman, doing heaps of good with your money, and laying up the blessings of the poor, instead of dollars. But you are not merely a businessman, you love good and beautiful things, enjoy them yourself, and let others go halves, as you always did in the old times. I am proud of you, Teddy, for you get better every year, and everyone feels it, though you won’t let them say so. Yes, and when I have my flock, I’ll just point to you, and say ‘There’s your model, my lads’.’
“我的成功超出了我的希望，因为你在这里，一个稳定、明智的商人，用你的钱做了很多好事，并把金钱而不是金钱留给了穷人。”但你不仅仅是一个商人，你喜欢美好的事物，自己享受，而让别人一半，就像你以前所做的那样。我为你感到骄傲，泰迪，因为你每年都在进步，每个人都能感觉到，尽管你不让他们这么说。是的，当我有了我的羊群时，我会指着你们说：“这是你们的模特，我的小伙子们。”

Poor Laurie didn’t know where to look, for, man though he was, something of the old bashfulness came over him as this burst of praise made all faces turn approvingly upon him.
可怜的劳里不知道该往哪里看，因为，尽管他是个男人，但当这突然的赞扬让所有人都转向他时，他身上又恢复了往日的羞涩。

‘I say, Jo, that’s rather too much,’ he began, just in his old boyish way. ‘You have all done more for me than I can ever thank you for, except by doing my best not to disapoint you. You have rather cast me off lately, Jo, but I’ve had the best of help, nevertheless. So, if I’ve got on at all, you may thank these two for it.’ And he laid one hand gently on his grandfather’s head, and the other on Amy’s golden one, for the three were never far apart.
“我说，乔，这太过分了，”他开始说道，只是用他一贯的孩子气方式。 “你们为我所做的一切，超出了我对你们的感激之情，除非我尽力不让你们失望。乔，你最近有点抛弃我了，但无论如何，我还是得到了最好的帮助。所以，如果我能继续下去的话，你可以感谢这两个人。”他轻轻地将一只手放在祖父的头上，另一只手放在艾米的金色头上，因为三人离得并不远。

‘I do think that families are the most beautiful things in all the world!’ burst out Jo, who was in an unusually up-lifted frame of mind just then. ‘When I have one of my own, I hope it will be as happy as the three I know and love the best. If John and my Fritz were only here, it would be quite a little heaven on earth,’ she added more quietly. And that night when she went to her room after a blissful evening of family counsels, hopes, and plans, her heart was so full of happiness that she could only calm it by kneeling beside the empty bed always near her own, and thinking tender thoughts of Beth. It was a very astonishing year altogether, for things seemed to happen in an unusually rapid and delightful manner. Almost before she knew where she was, Jo found herself married and settled at Plumfield. Then a family of six or seven boys sprung up like mushrooms, and flourished surprisingly, poor boys as well as rich, for Mr. Laurence was continually finding some touching case of destitution, and begging the Bhaers to take pity on the child, and he would gladly pay a trifle for its support. In this way, the sly old gentleman got round proud Jo, and furnished her with the style of boy in which she most delighted.
“我确实认为家庭是世界上最美丽的事物！”乔突然说道，此时她的心情异常振奋。 “当我拥有自己的一只时，我希望它能像我认识和最爱的三个一样快乐。如果约翰和我的弗里茨只在这里，那将是一个人间天堂。”她更轻声地补充道。那天晚上，在经历了一个幸福的家庭咨询、希望和计划之后，当她回到自己的房间时，她的心充满了幸福，以至于她只能跪在靠近她自己的空床边，想着温柔的想法，才能平静下来。贝丝.总的来说，这是非常令人惊讶的一年，因为事情似乎以异常迅速和令人愉快的方式发生。几乎在她知道自己在哪里之前，乔就发现自己结婚了，并定居在普拉姆菲尔德。然后，一个有六七个男孩的家庭像雨后春笋般涌现，出人意料地蓬勃发展，有穷男孩也有富人，因为劳伦斯先生不断地发现一些感人的贫困案例，并恳求巴尔夫妇怜悯这个孩子，他很乐意为它的支持付出一点小钱。就这样，狡猾的老先生把骄傲的乔团圆了，给她布置了她最喜欢的男孩风格。

Of course it was uphill work at first, and Jo made queer mistakes, but the wise Professor steered her safely into calmer waters, and the most rampant ragamuffin was conquered in the end. How Jo did enjoy her ‘wilderness of boys’, and how poor, dear Aunt March would have lamented had she been there to see the sacred precincts of prim, well-ordered Plumfield overrun with Toms, Dicks, and Harrys! There was a sort of poetic justice about it, after all, for the old lady had been the terror of the boys for miles around, and now the exiles feasted freely on forbidden plums, kicked up the gravel with profane boots unreproved, and played cricket in the big field where the irritable ‘cow with a crumpled horn’ used to invite rash youths to come and be tossed. It became a sort of boys’ paradise, and Laurie suggested that it should be called the ‘Bhaer-garten’, as a compliment to its master and appropriate to its inhabitants.
当然，一开始这是一项艰巨的工作，乔犯了一些奇怪的错误，但明智的教授引导她安全地进入平静的水域，最终征服了最猖獗的衣衫褴褛的人。乔是多么享受她的“男孩们的荒野”，如果她在那里看到拘谨、秩序井然的普拉姆菲尔德的神圣区域挤满了汤姆、迪克和哈利，她会多么可怜、亲爱的马奇阿姨会多么哀叹！毕竟，这其中有一种诗意的正义，因为老太太一直是方圆几英里内男孩们的恐惧，现在流亡者们自由地享用禁忌的李子，用亵渎的靴子踢碎石，不受责备，并打板球在这片大田野里，那头易怒的“牛角皱巴巴的牛”曾经邀请鲁莽的年轻人过来并被抛掷。它变成了男孩的天堂，劳里建议它应该被称为“巴尔花园”，作为对它的主人的赞美，并适合它的居民。

It never was a fashionable school, and the Professor did not lay up a fortune, but it was just what Jo intended it to be— ‘a happy, homelike place for boys, who needed teaching, care, and kindness’. Every room in the big house was soon full. Every little plot in the garden soon had its owner. A regular menagerie appeared in barn and shed, for pet animals were allowed. And three times a day, Jo smiled at her Fritz from the head of a long table lined on either side with rows of happy young faces, which all turned to her with affectionate eyes, confiding words, and grateful hearts, full of love for ‘Mother Bhaer’. She had boys enough now, and did not tire of them, though they were not angels, by any means, and some of them caused both Professor and Professorin much trouble and anxiety. But her faith in the good spot which exists in the heart of the naughtiest, sauciest, most tantalizing little ragamuffin gave her patience, skill, and in time success, for no mortal boy could hold out long with Father Bhaer shining on him as benevolently as the sun, and Mother Bhaer forgiving him seventy times seven. Very precious to Jo was the friendship of the lads, their penitent sniffs and whispers after wrongdoing, their droll or touching little confidences, their pleasant enthusiasms, hopes, and plans, even their misfortunes, for they only endeared them to her all the more. There were slow boys and bashful boys, feeble boys and riotous boys, boys that lisped and boys that stuttered, one or two lame ones, and a merry little quadroon, who could not be taken in elsewhere, but who was welcome to the ‘Bhaer-garten’, though some people predicted that his admission would ruin the school.
它从来都不是一所时髦的学校，教授也没有积攒一大笔财富，但这正是乔想要的——“为需要教导、照顾和善良的男孩们提供一个快乐、像家一样的地方”。偌大的房子里的每个房间很快就挤满了人。花园里的每一块小地很快都有了它的主人。谷仓和棚屋里出现了常规的动物园，因为允许饲养宠物。乔每天三次在一张长桌的头上向她的弗里茨微笑，长桌两边排列着一排排快乐的年轻面孔，他们都用深情的眼神、倾诉的话语和感激的心转向她，充满了对“的爱”。巴尔妈妈。她现在已经有足够多的男孩了，而且并不厌倦他们，尽管他们无论如何都不是天使，其中一些给教授和教授带来了很多麻烦和焦虑。但她对最顽皮、最顽皮、最诱人的小破烂儿心中存在的好地方的信念给了她耐心、技巧和时间上的成功，因为没有一个凡人的男孩能在巴尔神父像他一样仁慈地照耀着他的情况下坚持太久。太阳和巴尔母亲原谅了他七十个七次。对于乔来说，小伙子们的友谊非常珍贵，他们在做错事后悔罪的嗤之以鼻和窃窃私语，他们滑稽或感人的小秘密，他们令人愉快的热情、希望和计划，甚至他们的不幸，因为他们只会让他们更加受她喜爱。有缓慢的男孩和害羞的男孩，虚弱的男孩和暴躁的男孩，口齿不清的男孩和结巴的男孩，一两个跛脚的男孩，还有一个快乐的小四人组，他们在其他地方无法被接纳，但欢迎来到“巴尔” -garten'，尽管有些人预测他的入学会毁掉学校。

Yes, Jo was a very happy woman there, in spite of hard work, much anxiety, and a perpetual racket. She enjoyed it heartily and found the applause of her boys more satisfying than any praise of the world, for now she told no stories except to her flock of enthusiastic believers and admirers. As the years went on, two little lads of her own came to increase her happiness—Rob, named for Grandpa, and Teddy, a happy-go-lucky baby, who seemed to have inherited his papa’s sunshiny temper as well as his mother’s lively spirit. How they ever grew up alive in that whirlpool of boys was a mystery to their grandma and aunts, but they flourished like dandelions in spring, and their rough nurses loved and served them well.
是的，乔在那里是一个非常幸福的女人，尽管工作很辛苦，充满焦虑，而且总是吵闹。她衷心地享受着这一切，发现孩子们的掌声比世界上的任何赞美都更令人满意，因为现在，除了对她的一群热情的信徒和崇拜者之外，她不再讲故事。随着岁月的流逝，两个小家伙的到来给她增添了更多的幸福——罗布（以爷爷的名字命名）和泰迪（泰迪），一个无忧无虑的婴儿，他似乎继承了爸爸阳光明媚的脾气和妈妈活泼的性格。精神。他们是如何在男孩的漩涡中活着长大的，对他们的奶奶和姑妈来说是个谜，但他们像春天的蒲公英一样茂盛，粗鲁的保姆爱护他们，照顾他们。

There were a great many holidays at Plumfield, and one of the most delightful was the yearly apple-picking. For then the Marches, Laurences, Brookes. And Bhaers turned out in full force and made a day of it. Five years after Jo’s wedding, one of these fruitful festivals occurred, a mellow October day, when the air was full of an exhilarating freshness which made the spirits rise and the blood dance healthily in the veins. The old orchard wore its holiday attire. Goldenrod and asters fringed the mossy walls. Grasshoppers skipped briskly in the sere grass, and crickets chirped like fairy pipers at a feast. Squirrels were busy with their small harvesting. Birds twittered their adieux from the alders in the lane, and every tree stood ready to send down its shower of red or yellow apples at the first shake. Everybody was there. Everybody laughed and sang, climbed up and tumbled down. Everybody declared that there never had been such a perfect day or such a jolly set to enjoy it, and everyone gave themselves up to the simple pleasures of the hour as freely as if there were no such things as care or sorrow in the world.
普拉姆菲尔德有很多假期，其中最令人愉快的就是每年的苹果采摘活动。然后是马奇、劳伦斯、布鲁克斯。巴尔斯全力以赴，度过了愉快的一天。乔结婚五年后，这些硕果累累的节日之一发生了，十月的一个柔和的日子，空气中充满了令人振奋的新鲜感，使人们精神振奋，血液在血管中健康地舞动。老果园穿上了节日盛装。长满青苔的墙壁上长满了一枝黄花和紫苑。蚱蜢在荒凉的草地上轻快地跳跃着，蟋蟀则像盛宴上的风笛仙女一样叽叽喳喳地叫着。松鼠正忙着他们的小收获。鸟儿在小巷里的桤木上叽叽喳喳地告别，每棵树都准备好在第一次摇晃时降下红色或黄色的苹果。每个人都在那里。大家有说有笑，有唱有唱，爬上爬下。每个人都宣称从未有过如此完美的一天或如此愉快的时光来享受它，每个人都尽情地享受这一刻的简单快乐，仿佛世界上没有忧虑或悲伤之类的事情。

Mr. March strolled placidly about, quoting Tusser, Cowley, and Columella to Mr. Laurence, while enjoying...
马奇先生平静地散步，向劳伦斯先生引用塔瑟、考利和科鲁梅拉的话，同时享受着……

The gentle apple’s winey juice.
温和的苹果酒汁。

The Professor charged up and down the green aisles like a stout Teutonic knight, with a pole for a lance, leading on the boys, who made a hook and ladder company of themselves, and performed wonders in the way of ground and lofty tumbling. Laurie devoted himself to the little ones, rode his small daughter in a bushel-basket, took Daisy up among the bird’s nests, and kept adventurous Rob from breaking his neck. Mrs. March and Meg sat among the apple piles like a pair of Pomonas, sorting the contributions that kept pouring in, while Amy with a beautiful motherly expression in her face sketched the various groups, and watched over one pale lad, who sat adoring her with his little crutch beside him.
教授像一位粗壮的日耳曼骑士一样，在绿色的过道上冲来冲去，以长矛为长矛，带领着男孩们，他们自己组成了钩子和梯子，在地面和高空翻滚中创造了奇迹。劳里全身心地照顾小孩子，把他的小女儿放在一个斗式篮子里骑着，把黛西带到鸟巢里，并防止爱冒险的罗布扭断脖子。马奇太太和梅格像一对波莫纳一样坐在苹果堆中间，对源源不断涌来的捐款进行分类，而艾米脸上带着美丽的母亲般的表情，勾勒出各组苹果的轮廓，并注视着一个脸色苍白的小伙子，他坐在那儿崇拜她。他的小拐杖在他身边。

Jo was in her element that day, and rushed about, with her gown pinned up, and her hat anywhere but on her head, and her baby tucked under her arm, ready for any lively adventure which might turn up. Little Teddy bore a charmed life, for nothing ever happened to him, and Jo never felt any anxiety when he was whisked up into a tree by one lad, galloped off on the back of another, or supplied with sour russets by his indulgent papa, who labored under the Germanic delusion that babies could digest anything, from pickled cabbage to buttons, nails, and their own small shoes. She knew that little Ted would turn up again in time, safe and rosy, dirty and serene, and she always received him back with a hearty welcome, for Jo loved her babies tenderly.
那天，乔如鱼得水，她的长袍别着，帽子别在头上，她的孩子夹在腋下，到处奔走，准备好迎接可能出现的任何生动的冒险。小泰迪过着令人着迷的生活，因为他什么也没发生过，当他被一个小伙子抓到一棵树上，骑在另一个小伙子的背上疾驰而去，或者被他宽容的爸爸提供酸黄褐色时，乔从来没有感到任何焦虑。他们深受日耳曼人的错觉的影响，认为婴儿可以消化任何东西，从泡菜到纽扣、钉子，再到他们自己的小鞋子。她知道小特德会及时再次出现，安全而红润，肮脏而安详，她总是以热烈的欢迎迎接他回来，因为乔温柔地爱着她的孩子们。

At four o’clock a lull took place, and baskets remained empty, while the apple pickers rested and compared rents and bruises. Then Jo and Meg, with a detachment of the bigger boys, set forth the supper on the grass, for an out-of-door tea was always the crowning joy of the day. The land literally flowed with milk and honey on such occasions, for the lads were not required to sit at table, but allowed to partake of refreshment as they liked—freedom being the sauce best beloved by the boyish soul. They availed themselves of the rare privilege to the fullest extent, for some tried the pleasing experiment of drinking mild while standing on their heads, others lent a charm to leapfrog by eating pie in the pauses of the game, cookies were sown broadcast over the field, and apple turnovers roosted in the trees like a new style of bird. The little girls had a private tea party, and Ted roved among the edibles at his own sweet will.
四点钟，一切平静下来，篮子里空空如也，苹果采摘工们则休息，比较租金和伤痕。然后乔和梅格带着一群大男孩在草地上准备晚餐，因为户外喝茶总是一天中最大的快乐。在这种场合，这片土地确实流淌着牛奶和蜂蜜，因为小伙子们不需要坐在餐桌旁，而是可以随意享用茶点——自由是孩子气的灵魂最喜爱的酱汁。他们充分利用了这一难得的特权，有些人尝试了倒立喝淡酒的令人愉快的实验，另一些人则在比赛暂停时吃馅饼来施展跳跃的魅力，饼干在球场上撒播。 ，苹果馅饼像一种新风格的鸟儿栖息在树上。小女孩们举办了一场私人茶会，特德则按照自己的甜蜜意愿在食物中徘徊。

When no one could eat any more, the Professor proposed the first regular toast, which was always drunk at such times—‘Aunt March, God bless her!’ A toast heartily given by the good man, who never forgot how much he owed her, and quietly drunk by the boys, who had been taught to keep her memory green.
当没有人再吃东西的时候，教授提出了第一顿普通的祝酒词，这种时候总是喝得醉醺醺的——“马奇阿姨，上帝保佑她！”这位好人衷心地祝酒，他永远不会忘记自己欠她多少。 ，并被男孩们悄悄喝醉，他们被教导要保持​​她的记忆绿色。

‘Now, Grandma’s sixtieth birthday! Long life to her, with three times three!’
‘现在，奶奶六十岁生日了！祝她长寿，三乘三！”

That was given with a will, as you may well believe, and the cheering once begun, it was hard to stop it. Everybody’s health was proposed, form Mr. Laurence, who was considered their special patron, to the astonished guinea pig, who had strayed from its proper sphere in search of its young master. Demi, as the oldest grandchild, then presented the queen of the day with various gifts, so numerous that they were transported to the festive scene in a wheelbarrow. Funny presents, some of them, but what would have been defects to other eyes were ornaments to Grandma’s—for the children’s gifts were all their own. Every stitch Daisy’s patient little fingers had put into the handkerchiefs she hemmed was better than embroidery to Mrs. March. Demi’s miracle of mechanical skill, though the cover wouldn’t shut, Rob’s footstool had a wiggle in its uneven legs that she declared was soothing, and no page of the costly book Amy’s child gave her was so fair as that on which appeared in tipsy capitals, the words— ‘To dear Grandma, from her little Beth.’
正如你可能相信的那样，这是有意愿的，欢呼声一旦开始，就很难停止。每个人的健康都被提议，从劳伦斯先生（他被认为是他们的特别赞助人）到惊讶的豚鼠，它为了寻找它的年轻主人而偏离了它的正确范围。作为最大的孙子，黛米随后向当天的女王赠送了各种礼物，礼物数量如此之多，以致于这些礼物都是用独轮车运到节日现场的。有些礼物很有趣，但在其他人看来可能是缺陷，但对祖母来说却是装饰品——因为孩子们的礼物都是他们自己的。对马奇太太来说，黛西耐心的小手指缝进她包边的手帕里的每一针都比刺绣还要好。黛米的机械技能奇迹，虽然盖子关不上，罗布的脚凳不平坦的腿上有一个摆动，她声称这是舒缓的，艾米的孩子给她的那本昂贵的书里没有一页比醉酒的那一页更公平。大写字母上写着——“致亲爱的奶奶，来自她的小贝丝。”

During the ceremony the boys had mysteriously disappeared, and when Mrs. March had tried to thank her children, and broken down, while Teddy wiped her eyes on his pinafore, the Professor suddenly began to sing. Then, from above him, voice after voice took up the words, and from tree to tree echoed the music of the unseen choir, as the boys sang with all their hearts the little song that Jo had written, Laurie set to music, and the Professor trained his lads to give with the best effect. This was something altogether new, and it proved a grand success, for Mrs. March couldn’t get over her surprise, and insisted on shaking hands with every one of the featherless birds, from tall Franz and Emil to the little quadroon, who had the sweetest voice of all.
在仪式期间，男孩们神秘地消失了，当马奇夫人试图感谢她的孩子们时，她崩溃了，而泰迪则用围裙擦着眼睛，教授突然开始唱歌。然后，从他的上方，一个又一个的声音传来了这些话语，从一棵树到另一棵树，都回响着看不见的唱诗班的音乐，男孩们全心全意地唱着乔写的小歌，劳里配乐，而教授训练他的小伙子们要付出最好的效果。这是全新的事情，事实证明它取得了巨大的成功，因为马奇夫人无法克服她的惊讶，并坚持与每一只没有羽毛的鸟握手，从高大的弗兰兹和埃米尔到小四足鸟，最甜美的声音。

After this, the boys dispersed for a final lark, leaving Mrs. March and her daughters under the festival tree.
此后，男孩们散去，享受最后的欢乐，把马奇夫人和她的女儿们留在节日树下。

‘I don’t think I ever ought to call myself ‘unlucky Jo’ again, when my greatest wish has been so beautifully gratified,’ said Mrs. Bhaer, taking Teddy’s little fist out of the milk pitcher, in which he was rapturously churning.
“我认为我不应该再称自己为‘不幸的乔’，因为我最大的愿望已经得到了如此美妙的满足，”巴尔夫人说着，把泰迪的小拳头从牛奶罐里拿出来，泰迪正在牛奶罐里兴高采烈地搅拌着。 。

‘And yet your life is very different from the one you pictured so long ago. Do you remember our castles in the air?’ asked Amy, smiling as she watched Laurie and John playing cricket with the boys.
“然而，你的生活与你很久以前想象的生活截然不同。你还记得我们的空中楼阁吗？”艾米看着劳里和约翰和孩子们打板球，微笑着问道。

‘Dear fellows! It does my heart good to see them forget business and frolic for a day,’ answered Jo, who now spoke in a maternal way of all mankind. ‘Yes, I remember, but the life I wanted then seems selfish, lonely, and cold to me now. I haven’t given up the hope that I may write a good book yet, but I can wait, and I’m sure it will be all the better for such experiences and illustrations as these.’ And Jo pointed from the lively lads in the distance to her father, leaning on the Professor’s arm, as they walked to and fro in the sunshine, deep in one of the conversations which both enjoyed so much, and then to her mother, sitting enthroned among her daughters, with their children in her lap and at her feet, as if all found help and happiness in the face which never could grow old to them.
‘亲爱的朋友们！看到他们忘却公事、嬉闹一天，我的心感到高兴。”乔回答道，现在她以全人类慈母般的语气说道。 “是的，我记得，但我当时想要的生活现在对我来说似乎是自私、孤独和冷漠的。”我还没有放弃写一本好书的希望，但我可以等待，我相信有这样的经历和插图会更好。”乔从活泼的小伙子们身上指出。她的父亲靠在教授的手臂上，他们在阳光下来回走动，深入地进行着一场两人都非常喜欢的谈话，然后是她的母亲，坐在女儿们中间，孩子们坐在一起。她的腿上和脚下，仿佛所有人都在她的脸上找到了帮助和幸福，而这些对他们来说永远不会变老。

‘My castle was the most nearly realized of all. I asked for splendid things, to be sure, but in my heart I knew I should be satisfied, if I had a little home, and John, and some dear children like these. I’ve got them all, thank God, and am the happiest woman in the world.’ And Meg laid her hand on her tall boy’s head, with a face full of tender and devout content.
“我的城堡是最接近实现的。当然，我要求一些美好的东西，但在我心里，我知道如果我有一个小家，有约翰，还有一些像这样的可爱的孩子，我就应该满足了。感谢上帝，我已经拥有了这一切，我是世界上最幸福的女人。”梅格把手放在她高大男孩的头上，脸上充满温柔和虔诚的满足。

‘My castle is very different from what I planned, but I would not alter it, though, like Jo, I don’t relinquish all my artistic hopes, or confine myself to helping others fulfill their dreams of beauty. I’ve begun to model a figure of baby, and Laurie says it is the best thing I’ve ever done. I think so, myself, and mean to do it in marble, so that, whatever happens, I may at least keep the image of my little angel.’
“我的城堡与我的计划有很大不同，但我不会改变它，不过，像乔一样，我不会放弃我所有的艺术希望，或仅限于帮助别人实现他们的美丽梦想。我已经开始制作婴儿的模型，劳里说这是我做过的最好的事情。我自己也是这么认为的，并且打算用大理石来做，这样，无论发生什么，我至少可以保留我的小天使的形象。

As Amy spoke, a great tear dropped on the golden hair of the sleeping child in her arms, for her one well-beloved daughter was a frail little creature and the dread of losing her was the shadow over Amy’s sunshine. This cross was doing much for both father and mother, for one love and sorrow bound them closely together. Amy’s nature was growing sweeter, deeper, and more tender. Laurie was growing more serious, strong, and firm, and both were learning that beauty, youth, good fortune, even love itself, cannot keep care and pain, loss and sorrow, from the most blessed for ...
艾米说话的时候，一滴大泪落在她怀里熟睡的孩子的金色头发上，因为她深爱的女儿是一个脆弱的小生物，失去她的恐惧给艾米的阳光蒙上了一层阴影。这个十字架为父亲和母亲做了很多事情，因为一种爱和悲伤将他们紧密地联系在一起。艾米的性格变得更加甜美、深刻、温柔。劳里变得更加严肃、坚强和坚定，两人都认识到，美丽、青春、好运，甚至爱情本身，都无法保留来自最有福的人的关心、痛苦、失落和悲伤……

Into each life some rain must fall,
每个生命中都必须有一些雨，

Some days must be dark and sad and dreary.
有些日子一定是黑暗、悲伤和沉闷的。

‘She is growing better, I am sure of it, my dear. Don’t despond, but hope and keep happy,’ said Mrs. March, as tenderhearted Daisy stooped from her knee to lay her rosy cheek against her little cousin’s pale one.
“她长得越来越好，我确信这一点，亲爱的。不要灰心丧气，而要满怀希望并保持快乐。”马奇太太说道，此时心地善良的黛西从膝盖上弯下身来，将她红润的脸颊贴在她小表弟苍白的脸颊上。

‘I never ought to, while I have you to cheer me up, Marmee, and Laurie to take more than half of every burden,’ replied Amy warmly. ‘He never lets me see his anxiety, but is so sweet and patient with me, so devoted to Beth, and such a stay and comfort to me always that I can’t love him enough. So, in spite of my one cross, I can say with Meg, ‘Thank God, I’m a happy woman.’’
“我从来不应该这样做，因为我有你们来鼓励我，妈妈，还有劳里，你们分担了一半以上的负担，”艾米热情地回答道。 “他从不让我看到他的焦虑，但他对我如此甜蜜和耐心，对贝丝如此忠诚，总是给我如此的停留和安慰，让我爱他爱得不够。”所以，尽管我心里有一个十字架，我还是可以对梅格说：“感谢上帝，我是一个幸福的女人。”

‘There’s no need for me to say it, for everyone can see that I’m far happier than I deserve,’ added Jo, glancing from her good husband to her chubby children, tumbling on the grass beside her. ‘Fritz is getting gray and stout. I’m growing as thin as a shadow, and am thirty. We never shall be rich, and Plumfield may burn up any night, for that incorrigible Tommy Bangs will smoke sweet-fern cigars under the bed-clothes, though he’s set himself afire three times already. But in spite of these unromantic facts, I have nothing to complain of, and never was so jolly in my life. Excuse the remark, but living among boys, I can’t help using their expressions now and then.’
“我不需要这么说，因为每个人都可以看到我比我应得的幸福得多，”乔补充道，她的目光从她的好丈夫到她胖乎乎的孩子们，他们在她旁边的草地上打滚。 “弗里茨的头发越来越灰白，越来越粗壮。我已经三十岁了，瘦得像影子一样。我们永远不会富有，普拉姆菲尔德任何一个晚上都可能被烧毁，因为那个不可救药的汤米·邦斯会在床单下抽甜蕨雪茄，尽管他已经自焚了三次。但尽管有这些不浪漫的事实，我没有什么可抱怨的，我的生活从来没有这么快乐过。请原谅我这么说，但生活在男孩中间，我时不时会忍不住使用他们的表情。

‘Yes, Jo, I think your harvest will be a good one,’ began Mrs. March, frightening away a big black cricket that was staring Teddy out of countenance.
“是的，乔，我想你的收成会很好。”马奇太太开始说道，吓走了一只正盯着泰迪看的黑色大蟋蟀。

‘Not half so good as yours, Mother. Here it is, and we never can thank you enough for the patient sowing and reaping you have done,’ cried Jo, with the loving impetuosity which she never would outgrow.
“还没有你的一半好，妈妈。就是这样，我们对你耐心播种和收获的感激之情无以言表。”乔喊道，带着她永远不会消失的爱的冲动。

‘I hope there will be more wheat and fewer tares every year,’ said Amy softly.
“我希望每年小麦多一些，稗子少一些。”艾米轻声说道。

‘A large sheaf, but I know there’s room in your heart for it, Marmee dear,’ added Meg’s tender voice.
“一大捆，但我知道你心里有空间，亲爱的妈妈，”梅格用温柔的声音补充道。

Touched to the heart, Mrs. March could only stretch out her arms, as if to gather children and grandchildren to herself, and say, with face and voice full of motherly love, gratitude, and humility...
马奇夫人感动不已，只能伸出双臂，仿佛要把儿孙团聚到自己身边，面容和声音都充满了母爱、感激和谦卑……

‘Oh, my girls, however long you may live, I never can wish you a greater happiness than this!’
“噢，我的女儿们，无论你们能活多久，我都无法祝愿你们比这更幸福！”

w