
Frankenstein
弗兰肯斯坦

By Mary Wollstonecraft Shelley
玛丽·沃斯通克拉夫特·雪莱

Letter 1
信1

To Mrs. Saville, England
致英国萨维尔夫人

St. Petersburgh, Dec. 11th, 17—
圣彼得堡，2017 年 12 月 11 日——

You will rejoice to hear that no disaster has accompanied the commencement of an enterprise which you have regarded with such evil forebodings. I arrived here yesterday, and my first task is to assure my dear sister of my welfare and increasing confidence in the success of my undertaking.
你会很高兴听到你怀有如此不祥预感的一项事业的开始并没有发生任何灾难。我昨天到达这里，我的首要任务是向我亲爱的妹妹保证我的幸福，并增强我事业成功的信心。

I am already far north of London, and as I walk in the streets of Petersburgh, I feel a cold northern breeze play upon my cheeks, which braces my nerves and fills me with delight. Do you understand this feeling? This breeze, which has travelled from the regions towards which I am advancing, gives me a foretaste of those icy climes. Inspirited by this wind of promise, my daydreams become more fervent and vivid. I try in vain to be persuaded that the pole is the seat of frost and desolation; it ever presents itself to my imagination as the region of beauty and delight. There, Margaret, the sun is forever visible, its broad disk just skirting the horizon and diffusing a perpetual splendour. There—for with your leave, my sister, I will put some trust in preceding navigators— there snow and frost are banished; and, sailing over a calm sea, we may be wafted to a land surpassing in wonders and in beauty every region hitherto discovered on the habitable globe. Its productions and features may be without example, as the phenomena of the heavenly bodies undoubtedly are in those undiscovered solitudes. What may not be expected in a country of eternal light? I may there discover the wondrous power which attracts the needle and may regulate a thousand celestial observations that require only this voyage to render their seeming eccentricities consistent forever. I shall satiate my ardent curiosity with the sight of a part of the world never before visited, and may tread a land never before imprinted by the foot of man. These are my enticements, and they are sufficient to conquer all fear of danger or death and to induce me to commence this labourious voyage with the joy a child feels when he embarks in a little boat, with his holiday mates, on an expedition of discovery up his native river. But supposing all these conjectures to be false, you cannot contest the inestimable benefit which I shall confer on all mankind, to the last generation, by discovering a passage near the pole to those countries, to reach which at present so many months are requisite; or by ascertaining the secret of the magnet, which, if at all possible, can only be effected by an undertaking such as mine.
我已远在伦敦以北，走在彼得堡的大街上，一股凛冽的北风拂过脸颊，使我的神经绷紧，心里充满愉悦。你明白这种感觉吗？这股微风从我即将前往的地区吹来，让我预尝到了那些冰冷的气候。在这承诺之风的鼓舞下，我的白日梦变得更加热烈和生动。我徒劳地试图说服杆子是霜冻和荒凉的所在地；它总是在我的想象中呈现出美丽和欢乐的境界。玛格丽特，在那里，太阳永远可见，它宽阔的圆盘正好位于地平线的边缘，散发出永恒的光彩。在那里——因为有了你的离开，我的姐妹，我会对前面的航海家抱有一些信任——那里的雪和霜都被消除了；当我们航行在平静的大海上时，我们可能会被漂流到一片神奇而美丽的土地，超越了迄今为止在可居住的地球上发现的每一个地区。它的产物和特征可能是无与伦比的，就像天体现象无疑存在于那些未被发现的孤独之中一样。在一个永恒之光的国家里，有什么是不可期待的呢？我可能会在那里发现吸引指针的奇妙力量，并可能调节一千个天体观测，而这些观测只需要这次航行就可以使它们看似怪异的现象永远一致。我将用看到世界上从未去过的地方的景象来满足我强烈的好奇心，并可能踏上人类从未留下过足迹的土地。 这些就是我的诱惑，它们足以克服对危险或死亡的所有恐惧，并诱使我带着孩子和他的度假伙伴登上小船进行发现探险时所感受到的快乐开始这次艰苦的航行。沿着他家乡的河流而上。但是，假设所有这些猜想都是错误的，你就无法质疑我将给全人类、直到最后一代人带来的不可估量的利益，因为我发现了一条靠近极地的通道，通往那些国家，目前需要几个月的时间才能到达这些国家。或者通过查明磁铁的秘密，如果可能的话，只能通过像我这样的事业来实现。

These reflections have dispelled the agitation with which I began my letter, and I feel my heart glow with an enthusiasm which elevates me to heaven, for nothing contributes so much to tranquillize the mind as a steady purpose—a point on which the soul may fix its intellectual eye. This expedition has been the favourite dream of my early years. I have read with ardour the accounts of the various voyages which have been made in the prospect of arriving at the North Pacific Ocean through the seas which surround the pole. You may remember that a history of all the voyages made for purposes of discovery composed the whole of our good Uncle Thomas’ library. My education was neglected, yet I was passionately fond of reading. These volumes were my study day and night, and my familiarity with them increased that regret which I had felt, as a child, on learning that my father’s dying injunction had forbidden my uncle to allow me to embark in a seafaring life.
这些思考驱散了我开始写这封信时的焦躁不安，我感到我的心洋溢着一种热情，这种热情使我升入天堂，因为没有什么比一个稳定的目标更能让心灵平静——一个灵魂可以固定的点。它的智慧之眼。这次探险是我早年最喜欢的梦想。我满怀热情地阅读了各种航行的记述，这些航行的目的是穿过极地周围的海洋到达北太平洋。您可能还记得，所有以发现为目的的航行的历史构成了我们善良的托马斯叔叔的整个图书馆。我的教育被忽视了，但我却非常喜欢读书。这些书是我夜以继日的学习，我对它们的熟悉增加了我小时候的遗憾，当我得知父亲的临终禁令禁止我的叔叔允许我开始航海生活时，我感到遗憾。

These visions faded when I perused, for the first time, those poets whose effusions entranced my soul and lifted it to heaven. I also became a poet and for one year lived in a paradise of my own creation; I imagined that I also might obtain a niche in the temple where the names of Homer and Shakespeare are consecrated. You are well acquainted with my failure and how heavily I bore the disappointment. But just at that time I inherited the fortune of my cousin, and my thoughts were turned into the channel of their earlier bent.
当我第一次细读那些诗人的诗篇时，这些幻象就消失了，他们的情感使我的灵魂着迷，并将其提升到天堂。我还成为了一名诗人，在我自己创造的天堂里生活了一年；我想象着我也可能在供奉荷马和莎士比亚名字的寺庙里获得一个壁龛。你很清楚我的失败以及我承受的失望有多大。但就在那时，我继承了表弟的财产，我的思想也转向了他们先前的倾向。

Six years have passed since I resolved on my present undertaking. I can, even now, remember the hour from which I dedicated myself to this great enterprise. I commenced by inuring my body to hardship. I accompanied the whale-fishers on several expeditions to the North Sea; I voluntarily endured cold, famine, thirst, and want of sleep; I often worked harder than the common sailors during the day and devoted my nights to the study of mathematics, the theory of medicine, and those branches of physical science from which a naval adventurer might derive the greatest practical advantage. Twice I actually hired myself as an under-mate in a Greenland whaler, and acquitted myself to admiration. I must own I felt a little proud when my captain offered me the second dignity in the vessel and entreated me to remain with the greatest earnestness, so valuable did he consider my services.
自从我决心从事目前的事业以来，已经过去了六年。即使现在，我仍然记得我为这个伟大事业奉献自己的时刻。我首先让自己的身体适应困难。我曾多次陪同捕鲸者前往北海探险。我自愿忍受寒冷、饥荒、口渴、失眠；我白天常常比普通水手更努力地工作，晚上则致力于研究数学、医学理论以及那些海军冒险家可能从中获得最大实际优势的物理科学分支。有两次，我实际上雇用了自己作为格陵兰捕鲸船上的小副手，并让自己无罪得令人钦佩。我必须承认，当我的船长向我提供船上的第二个尊严并恳求我以最大的诚意留下来时，我感到有点自豪，他认为我的服务非常有价值。

And now, dear Margaret, do I not deserve to accomplish some great purpose? My life might have been passed in ease and luxury, but I preferred glory to every enticement that wealth placed in my path. Oh, that some encouraging voice would answer in the affirmative! My courage and my resolution is firm; but my hopes fluctuate, and my spirits are often depressed. I am about to proceed on a long and difficult voyage, the emergencies of which will demand all my fortitude: I am required not only to raise the spirits of others, but sometimes to sustain my own, when theirs are failing.
现在，亲爱的玛格丽特，我难道不应该实现一些伟大的目标吗？我的一生也许过得安逸奢华，但我更喜欢荣耀，而不是财富给我带来的一切诱惑。哦，但愿有一些鼓励的声音会给出肯定的回答！我的勇气和决心是坚定的；但我的希望时常波动，精神时常消沉。我即将开始一次漫长而艰难的航行，其中的紧急情况将需要我全部的毅力：我不仅需要鼓舞他人的精神，有时还需要在他们的精神崩溃时支撑自己的精神。

This is the most favourable period for travelling in Russia. They fly quickly over the snow in their sledges; the motion is pleasant, and, in my opinion, far more agreeable than that of an English stagecoach. The cold is not excessive, if you are wrapped in furs— a dress which I have already adopted, for there is a great difference between walking the deck and remaining seated motionless for hours, when no exercise prevents the blood from actually freezing in your veins. I have no ambition to lose my life on the post-road between St. Petersburgh and Archangel.
这是俄罗斯旅游的最佳时期。他们驾着雪橇在雪地上飞快地飞翔。这个动作很令人愉快，而且在我看来，比英国驿马车的动作更令人愉快。如果你裹着毛皮——我已经穿上了这条裙子，那么寒冷并不算太冷，因为在甲板上行走和一动不动地坐着几个小时之间有很大的区别，因为没有任何运动可以阻止血液在静脉中真正冻结。 。我不想在圣彼得堡和阿尔汉格尔斯克之间的邮政公路上失去生命。

I shall depart for the latter town in a fortnight or three weeks; and my intention is to hire a ship there, which can easily be done by paying the insurance for the owner, and to engage as many sailors as I think necessary among those who are accustomed to the whale-fishing. I do not intend to sail until the month of June; and when shall I return? Ah, dear sister, how can I answer this question? If I succeed, many, many months, perhaps years, will pass before you and I may meet. If I fail, you will see me again soon, or never.
我将在两周或三周内前往后一个城镇。我的目的是在那里租一艘船，这可以很容易地通过为船主支付保险来完成，并在那些习惯于捕鲸的人中雇用我认为必要的尽可能多的水手。我不打算在六月之前启航；我什么时候回来？啊，亲爱的姐姐，这个问题我该怎么回答呢？如果我成功了，在你和我见面之前会过去很多很多个月，也许几年。如果我失败了，你很快就会再见到我，或者再也见不到我了。

Farewell, my dear, excellent Margaret. Heaven shower down blessings on you, and save me, that I may again and again testify my gratitude for all your love and kindness.
别了，我亲爱的、优秀的玛格丽特。上天赐福给你，拯救我，让我一次又一次地向你表达我对你的爱和善意的感激之情。

Your affectionate brother,
你深情的兄弟，

R. Walton
R·沃尔顿

Letter 2
信2

To Mrs. Saville, England
致英国萨维尔夫人

Archangel, 28th March, 17—
大天使，2017 年 3 月 28 日——

How slowly the time passes here, encompassed as I am by frost and snow! Yet a second step is taken towards my enterprise. I have hired a vessel and am occupied in collecting my sailors; those whom I have already engaged appear to be men on whom I can depend and are certainly possessed of dauntless courage.
在这里，时间过得多么缓慢，就像我被霜雪包围一样！然而，我的事业又迈出了第二步。我租了一艘船，正忙于召集我的水手；我已经聘用的那些人看来是我可以依靠的人，而且肯定拥有大无畏的勇气。

But I have one want which I have never yet been able to satisfy, and the absence of the object of which I now feel as a most severe evil. I have no friend, Margaret: when I am glowing with the enthusiasm of success, there will be none to participate my joy; if I am assailed by disappointment, no one will endeavour to sustain me in dejection. I shall commit my thoughts to paper, it is true; but that is a poor medium for the communication of feeling. I desire the company of a man who could sympathize with me, whose eyes would reply to mine. You may deem me romantic, my dear sister, but I bitterly feel the want of a friend. I have no one near me, gentle yet courageous, possessed of a cultivated as well as of a capacious mind, whose tastes are like my own, to approve or amend my plans. How would such a friend repair the faults of your poor brother! I am too ardent in execution and too impatient of difficulties. But it is a still greater evil to me that I am self-educated: for the first fourteen years of my life I ran wild on a common and read nothing but our Uncle Thomas’ books of voyages. At that age I became acquainted with the celebrated poets of our own country; but it was only when it had ceased to be in my power to derive its most important benefits from such a conviction that I perceived the necessity of becoming acquainted with more languages than that of my native country. Now I am twenty-eight and am in reality more illiterate than many schoolboys of fifteen. It is true that I have thought more and that my daydreams are more extended and magnificent, but they want (as the painters call it) *keeping*; and I greatly need a friend who would have sense enough not to despise me as romantic, and affection enough for me to endeavour to regulate my mind.
但我有一个我从未能够满足的愿望，而我现在觉得缺乏这个对象是一种最严重的罪恶。我没有朋友，玛格丽特：当我洋溢着成功的热情时，没有人能分享我的喜悦；如果我感到失望，没有人会尽力让我保持沮丧。我将把我的想法写在纸上，这是真的；但这对于交流感情来说是一个很糟糕的媒介。我渴望有一个能同情我、能用眼神回应我的人为伴。你可能认为我很浪漫，我亲爱的妹妹，但我痛苦地感到需要一个朋友。我身边没有一个温和而勇敢、有教养且思想宽广、品味与我相似的人来批准或修改我的计划。这样的朋友怎么能弥补你可怜兄弟的过错呢！我执行力太热心，遇到困难太不耐烦。但对我来说，更大的祸害是我自学成才：在我生命的头十四年里，我在公共场所疯狂地生活，除了托马斯叔叔的航海书籍外，我什么也不读。在那个年纪，我结识了我国的著名诗人。但只有当我不再能够从这样的信念中获得最重要的利益时，我才意识到有必要熟悉比我的祖国更多的语言。现在我二十八岁了，实际上我比许多十五岁的男学生还要文盲。确实，我想得更多，我的白日梦更广阔、更宏伟，但它们想要（正如画家所说的）“保留”；我非常需要一个有足够理智的朋友，不会因为我浪漫而鄙视我，也有足够的感情，让我努力调节自己的思想。

Well, these are useless complaints; I shall certainly find no friend on the wide ocean, nor even here in Archangel, among merchants and seamen. Yet some feelings, unallied to the dross of human nature, beat even in these rugged bosoms. My lieutenant, for instance, is a man of wonderful courage and enterprise; he is madly desirous of glory, or rather, to word my phrase more characteristically, of advancement in his profession. He is an Englishman, and in the midst of national and professional prejudices, unsoftened by cultivation, retains some of the noblest endowments of humanity. I first became acquainted with him on board a whale vessel; finding that he was unemployed in this city, I easily engaged him to assist in my enterprise.
好吧，这些都是无用的抱怨；我肯定不会在广阔的海洋上找到朋友，甚至在天使长这里的商人和海员中也找不到朋友。然而，有些情感，与人性的渣滓无关，甚至在这些崎岖的胸怀中也跳动着。例如，我的中尉是一个非常有勇气和进取心的人。他疯狂地渴望荣耀，或者更确切地说，用我更典型的说法，渴望在他的职业中取得进步。他是一个英国人，在民族和职业偏见中，没有因教养而软化，保留了一些人类最崇高的天赋。我第一次认识他是在一艘捕鲸船上。发现他在这个城市失业了，我就轻易聘请他来协助我的企业。

The master is a person of an excellent disposition and is remarkable in the ship for his gentleness and the mildness of his discipline. This circumstance, added to his well-known integrity and dauntless courage, made me very desirous to engage him. A youth passed in solitude, my best years spent under your gentle and feminine fosterage, has so refined the groundwork of my character that I cannot overcome an intense distaste to the usual brutality exercised on board ship: I have never believed it to be necessary, and when I heard of a mariner equally noted for his kindliness of heart and the respect and obedience paid to him by his crew, I felt myself peculiarly fortunate in being able to secure his services. I heard of him first in rather a romantic manner, from a lady who owes to him the happiness of her life. This, briefly, is his story. Some years ago he loved a young Russian lady of moderate fortune, and having amassed a considerable sum in prize-money, the father of the girl consented to the match. He saw his mistress once before the destined ceremony; but she was bathed in tears, and throwing herself at his feet, entreated him to spare her, confessing at the same time that she loved another, but that he was poor, and that her father would never consent to the union. My generous friend reassured the suppliant, and on being informed of the name of her lover, instantly abandoned his pursuit. He had already bought a farm with his money, on which he had designed to pass the remainder of his life; but he bestowed the whole on his rival, together with the remains of his prize-money to purchase stock, and then himself solicited the young woman’s father to consent to her marriage with her lover. But the old man decidedly refused, thinking himself bound in honour to my friend, who, when he found the father inexorable, quitted his country, nor returned until he heard that his former mistress was married according to her inclinations. ‘What a noble fellow!’ you will exclaim. He is so; but then he is wholly uneducated: he is as silent as a Turk, and a kind of ignorant carelessness attends him, which, while it renders his conduct the more astonishing, detracts from the interest and sympathy which otherwise he would command.
船长是一位性情优秀的人，在船上以他的温和和温和的纪律而著称。这种情况，再加上他众所周知的正直和无畏的勇气，使我非常想与他交往。我的青春在孤独中度过，我最美好的时光是在您温柔而女性化的养育下度过的，这使我的性格基础如此完善，以至于我无法克服对船上常见的野蛮行径的强烈厌恶：我从来不认为有必要，当我听说一位水手同样以他的善良之心以及他的船员对他的尊重和服从而闻名时，我感到自己特别幸运，能够获得他的服务。我第一次以一种相当浪漫的方式从一位女士那里听说了他，她一生的幸福归功于他。简而言之，这就是他的故事。几年前，他爱上了一位富有的俄罗斯年轻女士，在积攒了一大笔奖金后，女孩的父亲同意了这门亲事。在预定的仪式之前，他见过他的情妇一次；但她泪流满面，扑倒在他的脚下，恳求他饶恕她，同时承认她爱着另一个人，但他很穷，而且她的父亲永远不会同意他们的结合。我慷慨的朋友安抚了恳求者，并在得知她爱人的名字后，立即放弃了他的追求。他已经用自己的钱买了一座农场，打算在里面度过余生。但他把全部财产连同剩余的奖金都捐给了他的对手，用于购买股票，然后他亲自恳求这位年轻女子的父亲同意她与她的情人结婚。 但老人断然拒绝，认为自己是为了尊重我的朋友，当他发现父亲无情时，他离开了自己的国家，直到听说他的前情妇按照她的意愿结婚了才回来。 “多么高尚的人啊！”你会惊叹道。他很;但他完全没有受过教育：他像土耳其人一样沉默，他身上有一种无知的粗心，这虽然使他的行为更加令人惊讶，但却减损了他本来可以得到的兴趣和同情。

Yet do not suppose, because I complain a little or because I can conceive a consolation for my toils which I may never know, that I am wavering in my resolutions. Those are as fixed as fate, and my voyage is only now delayed until the weather shall permit my embarkation. The winter has been dreadfully severe, but the spring promises well, and it is considered as a remarkably early season, so that perhaps I may sail sooner than I expected. I shall do nothing rashly: you know me sufficiently to confide in my prudence and considerateness whenever the safety of others is committed to my care.
然而，不要因为我有一点抱怨，或者因为我能为我的辛劳找到一个我可能永远不知道的安慰，就认为我的决心动摇了。这些就像命运一样注定，我的航程现在才被推迟，直到天气允许我上船。冬天严酷得可怕，但春天却充满希望，而且这被认为是一个非常早的季节，所以也许我可以比我预期的更早起航。我不会鲁莽行事：您足够了解我，相信每当我照顾他人的安全时，我都会谨慎而体贴。

I cannot describe to you my sensations on the near prospect of my undertaking. It is impossible to communicate to you a conception of the trembling sensation, half pleasurable and half fearful, with which I am preparing to depart. I am going to unexplored regions, to ‘the land of mist and snow,’ but I shall kill no albatross; therefore do not be alarmed for my safety or if I should come back to you as worn and woeful as the ‘Ancient Mariner.’ You will smile at my allusion, but I will disclose a secret. I have often attributed my attachment to, my passionate enthusiasm for, the dangerous mysteries of ocean to that production of the most imaginative of modern poets. There is something at work in my soul which I do not understand. I am practically industrious—painstaking, a workman to execute with perseverance and labour—but besides this there is a love for the marvellous, a belief in the marvellous, intertwined in all my projects, which hurries me out of the common pathways of men, even to the wild sea and unvisited regions I am about to explore.
我无法向你描述我对我的事业的近期前景的感受。我无法向你们传达我准备离开时那种半愉悦半恐惧的颤抖感觉。我要去未开发的地方，去“雾雪之地”，但我不会杀死信天翁；因此，请不要担心我的安全，也不要担心我会像“古代水手”一样疲惫而悲伤地回到你身边。你会对我的暗示微笑，但我会透露一个秘密。我经常将我对海洋危险奥秘的依恋和热情归因于最富有想象力的现代诗人的作品。我的灵魂里有某种我不明白的东西在起作用。我实际上很勤奋——吃苦耐劳，是一个以毅力和劳动来执行的工人——但除此之外，还有一种对奇妙事物的热爱，一种对奇妙事物的信仰，这些都交织在我所有的项目中，这促使我脱离了人类的共同道路，甚至到我即将探索的狂野大海和人迹罕至的地区。

But to return to dearer considerations. Shall I meet you again, after having traversed immense seas, and returned by the most southern cape of Africa or America? I dare not expect such success, yet I cannot bear to look on the reverse of the picture. Continue for the present to write to me by every opportunity: I may receive your letters on some occasions when I need them most to support my spirits. I love you very tenderly. Remember me with affection, should you never hear from me again.
但回到更重要的考虑。跨越大海，从非洲或美洲最南端的海角归来后，我还能再次见到你吗？我不敢奢望如此成功，但我又不忍心看照片的反面。继续利用一切机会给我写信：我可能会在某些场合收到你的来信，当我最需要它们来支撑我的精神时。我非常温柔地爱你。深情地记住我，如果你再也没有收到我的消息。

Your affectionate brother,
你深情的兄弟，

Robert Walton
罗伯特·沃尔顿

Letter 3
信3

To Mrs. Saville, England
致英国萨维尔夫人

July 7th, 17—
2017 年 7 月 7 日——

My dear Sister,
亲爱的姐姐，

I write a few lines in haste to say that I am safe— and well advanced on my voyage. This letter will reach England by a merchantman now on its homeward voyage from Archangel; more fortunate than I, who may not see my native land, perhaps, for many years. I am, however, in good spirits: my men are bold and apparently firm of purpose, nor do the floating sheets of ice that continually pass us, indicating the dangers of the region towards which we are advancing, appear to dismay them. We have already reached a very high latitude; but it is the height of summer, and although not so warm as in England, the southern gales, which blow us speedily towards those shores which I so ardently desire to attain, breathe a degree of renovating warmth which I had not expected.
我匆忙写下几行文字，表示我很安全，并且在航行中进展顺利。这封信将由一艘正在从大天使岛返航的商船到达英国；比我幸运，也许很多年都见不到我的祖国了。不过，我的精神状态很好：我的士兵们很勇敢，而且意志坚定，不断从我们身边经过的浮冰表明我们正在前进的地区存在危险，似乎也没有让他们感到沮丧。我们已经到达了一个很高的纬度；但现在正值盛夏，虽然不像英国那样温暖，但南方的大风将我们迅速吹向我热切渴望到达的海岸，带来了我意想不到的令人耳目一新的温暖。

No incidents have hitherto befallen us that would make a figure in a letter. One or two stiff gales and the springing of a leak are accidents which experienced navigators scarcely remember to record, and I shall be well content if nothing worse happen to us during our voyage.
迄今为止，我们还没有遇到过能在信中留下深刻印象的事件。一两次大风和突然出现的泄漏都是经验丰富的航海家几乎不记得记录的事故，如果我们在航行期间没有发生更糟糕的事情，我会很满意。

Adieu, my dear Margaret. Be assured that for my own sake, as well as yours, I will not rashly encounter danger. I will be cool, persevering, and prudent.
再见，我亲爱的玛格丽特。请放心，为了我自己，也为了你，我不会贸然遭遇危险。我会冷静、坚持、谨慎。

But success *shall* crown my endeavours. Wherefore not? Thus far I have gone, tracing a secure way over the pathless seas, the very stars themselves being witnesses and testimonies of my triumph. Why not still proceed over the untamed yet obedient element? What can stop the determined heart and resolved will of man?
但成功*将*为我的努力加冕。为什么不呢？到目前为止，我已经在无路的海洋上找到了一条安全的道路，连星星本身就是我胜利的见证和见证。为什么不继续处理未驯服但听话的元素呢？什么能阻挡人坚定的心和坚定的意志呢？

My swelling heart involuntarily pours itself out thus. But I must finish. Heaven bless my beloved sister!
我那颗膨胀的心不由自主地就这样流露出来了。但我必须完成。愿上天保佑我亲爱的妹妹！

R.W.

Letter 4
信4

To Mrs. Saville, England
致英国萨维尔夫人

August 5th, 17—
2017 年 8 月 5 日——

So strange an accident has happened to us that I cannot forbear recording it, although it is very probable that you will see me before these papers can come into your possession.
我们发生了一场如此奇怪的事故，以至于我忍不住把它记录下来，尽管你很有可能在这些文件到达你手中之前见到我。

Last Monday (July 31st) we were nearly surrounded by ice, which closed in the ship on all sides, scarcely leaving her the sea-room in which she floated. Our situation was somewhat dangerous, especially as we were compassed round by a very thick fog. We accordingly lay to, hoping that some change would take place in the atmosphere and weather.
上周一（7 月 31 日），我们几乎被冰包围了，船的四面八方都被冰封住了，几乎没有留下她漂浮的海室。我们的处境有些危险，尤其是当我们被浓雾包围时。我们因此而躺下，希望大气和天气会发生一些变化。

About two o’clock the mist cleared away, and we beheld, stretched out in every direction, vast and irregular plains of ice, which seemed to have no end. Some of my comrades groaned, and my own mind began to grow watchful with anxious thoughts, when a strange sight suddenly attracted our attention and diverted our solicitude from our own situation. We perceived a low carriage, fixed on a sledge and drawn by dogs, pass on towards the north, at the distance of half a mile; a being which had the shape of a man, but apparently of gigantic stature, sat in the sledge and guided the dogs. We watched the rapid progress of the traveller with our telescopes until he was lost among the distant inequalities of the ice.
大约两点钟左右，雾气散去，我们看到了向四面八方延伸的广阔而不规则的冰原，似乎没有尽头。一些战友发出了呻吟声，而我自己的心也开始变得警惕起来，充满了焦虑的想法，这时，一个奇怪的景象突然引起了我们的注意，转移了我们对自己处境的关心。我们看到一辆低矮的马车，固定在雪橇上，由狗拉着，向北行驶，距离半英里；一个人形的存在，但显然身材巨大，坐在雪橇上引导着狗。我们用望远镜观察着旅行者的快速行进，直到他消失在遥远的冰层中。

This appearance excited our unqualified wonder. We were, as we believed, many hundred miles from any land; but this apparition seemed to denote that it was not, in reality, so distant as we had supposed. Shut in, however, by ice, it was impossible to follow his track, which we had observed with the greatest attention.
这个出现让我们感到无比的惊奇。正如我们所相信的，我们距离任何陆地都有数百英里。但这个幽灵似乎表明，事实上，它并不像我们想象的那么遥远。然而，由于被冰封住，我们不可能追踪他的踪迹，而我们曾非常仔细地观察过他的踪迹。

About two hours after this occurrence we heard the ground sea, and before night the ice broke and freed our ship. We, however, lay to until the morning, fearing to encounter in the dark those large loose masses which float about after the breaking up of the ice. I profited of this time to rest for a few hours.
事件发生后大约两个小时，我们听到了地面海浪的声音，在入夜前，冰层破裂并释放了我们的船。然而，我们一直睡到早上，担心在黑暗中遇到那些冰块破裂后漂浮的大块松散的物体。我利用这段时间休息了几个小时。

In the morning, however, as soon as it was light, I went upon deck and found all the sailors busy on one side of the vessel, apparently talking to someone in the sea. It was, in fact, a sledge, like that we had seen before, which had drifted towards us in the night on a large fragment of ice. Only one dog remained alive; but there was a human being within it whom the sailors were persuading to enter the vessel. He was not, as the other traveller seemed to be, a savage inhabitant of some undiscovered island, but a European. When I appeared on deck the master said, ‘Here is our captain, and he will not allow you to perish on the open sea.’
然而，早上天一亮，我就走到甲板上，发现所有的水手都在船的一侧忙碌着，显然是在和海里的某个人说话。事实上，它是一个雪橇，就像我们以前见过的那样，它在夜间在一大块冰块上向我们漂来。只有一只狗还活着；但里面有一个人，水手们正在劝说他进入船内。他并不像另一位旅行者那样，是某个未被发现的岛屿上的野蛮居民，而是一个欧洲人。当我出现在甲板上时，船长说：“这是我们的船长，他不会允许你在公海上灭亡。”

On perceiving me, the stranger addressed me in English, although with a foreign accent. ‘Before I come on board your vessel,’ said he, ‘will you have the kindness to inform me whither you are bound?’
陌生人一看到我，就用英语跟我说话，尽管带有外国口音。 “在我登上你的船之前，”他说，“能否请你告诉我你要去哪里？”

You may conceive my astonishment on hearing such a question addressed to me from a man on the brink of destruction and to whom I should have supposed that my vessel would have been a resource which he would not have exchanged for the most precious wealth the earth can afford. I replied, however, that we were on a voyage of discovery towards the northern pole.
你可能会想象，当我听到一个濒临毁灭的人向我提出这样的问题时，我会感到多么惊讶，对他来说，我本应该认为我的船只是一种资源，他不会用地球上最宝贵的财富来交换。买得起。然而，我回答说，我们正在前往北极的发现之旅中。

Upon hearing this he appeared satisfied and consented to come on board. Good God! Margaret, if you had seen the man who thus capitulated for his safety, your surprise would have been boundless. His limbs were nearly frozen, and his body dreadfully emaciated by fatigue and suffering. I never saw a man in so wretched a condition. We attempted to carry him into the cabin, but as soon as he had quitted the fresh air he fainted. We accordingly brought him back to the deck and restored him to animation by rubbing him with brandy and forcing him to swallow a small quantity. As soon as he showed signs of life we wrapped him up in blankets and placed him near the chimney of the kitchen stove. By slow degrees he recovered and ate a little soup, which restored him wonderfully.
听了这话，他显得很满意，同意上船。天哪！玛格丽特，如果你看到那个为了自己的安全而投降的人，你一定会感到无比惊讶。他的四肢几乎冻僵了，身体因疲劳和痛苦而瘦得可怕。我从未见过一个人处于如此悲惨的境地。我们试图把他抱进机舱，但他一离开新鲜空气就晕倒了。因此，我们把他带回甲板上，用白兰地擦他并强迫他吞下少量，使他恢复活力。当他出现生命迹象时，我们就用毯子把他包裹起来，把他放在厨房炉灶的烟囱附近。他慢慢地康复了，喝了一点汤，恢复得非常好。

Two days passed in this manner before he was able to speak, and I often feared that his sufferings had deprived him of understanding. When he had in some measure recovered, I removed him to my own cabin and attended on him as much as my duty would permit. I never saw a more interesting creature: his eyes have generally an expression of wildness, and even madness, but there are moments when, if anyone performs an act of kindness towards him or does him the most trifling service, his whole countenance is lighted up, as it were, with a beam of benevolence and sweetness that I never saw equalled. But he is generally melancholy and despairing, and sometimes he gnashes his teeth, as if impatient of the weight of woes that oppresses him.
就这样过了两天，他才能够说话，我常常担心他的痛苦使他失去了理解力。当他在某种程度上康复后，我把他带到我自己的小屋，并在我的职责允许的范围内照顾他。我从来没有见过比他更有趣的生物：他的眼睛通常流露出狂野，甚至疯狂的表情，但有时，如果有人对他做出善意的举动，或者为他提供最微不足道的服务，他的整个脸都会发光。可以说，带着我从未见过的仁慈和甜蜜的光芒。但他总体上是忧郁和绝望的，有时他会咬牙切齿，似乎对压在他身上的不幸的重压感到不耐烦。

When my guest was a little recovered I had great trouble to keep off the men, who wished to ask him a thousand questions; but I would not allow him to be tormented by their idle curiosity, in a state of body and mind whose restoration evidently depended upon entire repose. Once, however, the lieutenant asked why he had come so far upon the ice in so strange a vehicle.
当我的客人稍稍恢复过来时，我费了好大劲才阻止那些想问他一千个问题的人。但我不允许他受到他们无谓的好奇心的折磨，因为他的身心状态显然取决于完全的休息。然而，有一次，中尉问他为什么乘坐如此奇怪的车辆在冰面上走了这么远。

His countenance instantly assumed an aspect of the deepest gloom, and he replied, ‘To seek one who fled from me.’
他的脸色顿时变得极为阴沉，回答道：“寻找一个从我身边逃走的人。”

‘And did the man whom you pursued travel in the same fashion?’
“你追寻的那个男人也以同样的方式旅行吗？”

‘Yes.’
'是的。'

‘Then I fancy we have seen him, for the day before we picked you up we saw some dogs drawing a sledge, with a man in it, across the ice.’
“那么我想我们见过他，因为在我们接你的前一天，我们看到一些狗在冰面上拉着一个雪橇，里面有一个人。”

This aroused the stranger’s attention, and he asked a multitude of questions concerning the route which the demon, as he called him, had pursued. Soon after, when he was alone with me, he said, ‘I have, doubtless, excited your curiosity, as well as that of these good people; but you are too considerate to make inquiries.’
这引起了陌生人的注意，他问了很多关于恶魔（他这样称呼他）所走的路线的问题。不久之后，当他单独和我在一起时，他说：“毫无疑问，我激发了你以及这些好人的好奇心；但你太体贴了，没有打听。”

‘Certainly; it would indeed be very impertinent and inhuman of me to trouble you with any inquisitiveness of mine.’
'当然;如果我以任何好奇心来打扰你，那确实是非常无礼和不人道的。

‘And yet you rescued me from a strange and perilous situation; you have benevolently restored me to life.’
‘然而你却把我从奇怪而危险的境地中救了出来；你仁慈地让我复活了。”

Soon after this he inquired if I thought that the breaking up of the ice had destroyed the other sledge. I replied that I could not answer with any degree of certainty, for the ice had not broken until near midnight, and the traveller might have arrived at a place of safety before that time; but of this I could not judge.
此后不久，他问我是否认为冰的破裂已经毁坏了另一个雪橇。我回答说，我无法给出任何确定的答案，因为冰直到接近午夜才破裂，旅行者可能在那之前就到达了安全地点；但对此我无法判断。

From this time a new spirit of life animated the decaying frame of the stranger. He manifested the greatest eagerness to be upon deck to watch for the sledge which had before appeared; but I have persuaded him to remain in the cabin, for he is far too weak to sustain the rawness of the atmosphere. I have promised that someone should watch for him and give him instant notice if any new object should appear in sight.
从那时起，一种新的生命精神使这个陌生人腐烂的身体焕发了生机。他表现出极大的渴望，想要到甲板上寻找先前出现的雪橇。但我说服他留在小屋里，因为他太虚弱了，无法承受恶劣的气氛。我已经答应有人会留意他，并在看到任何新物体时立即通知他。

Such is my journal of what relates to this strange occurrence up to the present day. The stranger has gradually improved in health but is very silent and appears uneasy when anyone except myself enters his cabin. Yet his manners are so conciliating and gentle that the sailors are all interested in him, although they have had very little communication with him. For my own part, I begin to love him as a brother, and his constant and deep grief fills me with sympathy and compassion. He must have been a noble creature in his better days, being even now in wreck so attractive and amiable.
这就是我迄今为止与这一奇怪事件有关的日记。陌生人的健康状况逐渐好转，但非常沉默，当除了我之外的任何人进入他的小屋时，他都会显得不安。然而他的举止是如此的和蔼可亲和温柔，以至于水手们都对他很感兴趣，尽管他们与他的交流很少。就我而言，我开始像兄弟一样爱他，他持续而深切的悲伤让我充满同情和怜悯。在他好的日子里，他一定是一位高贵的人，即使现在处于困境，他仍然如此迷人和和蔼可亲。

I said in one of my letters, my dear Margaret, that I should find no friend on the wide ocean; yet I have found a man who, before his spirit had been broken by misery, I should have been happy to have possessed as the brother of my heart.
亲爱的玛格丽特，我在一封信中说，在广阔的海洋上我找不到朋友；然而，我发现了一个人，在他的精神被苦难击垮之前，我会很高兴能拥有他作为我的心上兄弟。

I shall continue my journal concerning the stranger at intervals, should I have any fresh incidents to record.
如果我有任何新的事件需要记录，我将不时地继续写关于陌生人的日记。

August 13th, 17—
2017 年 8 月 13 日——

My affection for my guest increases every day. He excites at once my admiration and my pity to an astonishing degree. How can I see so noble a creature destroyed by misery without feeling the most poignant grief? He is so gentle, yet so wise; his mind is so cultivated, and when he speaks, although his words are culled with the choicest art, yet they flow with rapidity and unparalleled eloquence.
我对客人的感情与日俱增。他立刻激起了我的钦佩和怜悯，达到了惊人的程度。看到如此高贵的生物被苦难摧毁，我怎能不感到最心酸的悲伤呢？他是那么温柔，却又那么睿智；他的心性如此修养，说话的时候，虽然语言精雕细琢，但行云流水，雄辩无比。

He is now much recovered from his illness and is continually on the deck, apparently watching for the sledge that preceded his own. Yet, although unhappy, he is not so utterly occupied by his own misery but that he interests himself deeply in the projects of others. He has frequently conversed with me on mine, which I have communicated to him without disguise. He entered attentively into all my arguments in favour of my eventual success and into every minute detail of the measures I had taken to secure it. I was easily led by the sympathy which he evinced to use the language of my heart, to give utterance to the burning ardour of my soul, and to say, with all the fervour that warmed me, how gladly I would sacrifice my fortune, my existence, my every hope, to the furtherance of my enterprise. One man’s life or death were but a small price to pay for the acquirement of the knowledge which I sought, for the dominion I should acquire and transmit over the elemental foes of our race. As I spoke, a dark gloom spread over my listener’s countenance. At first I perceived that he tried to suppress his emotion; he placed his hands before his eyes, and my voice quivered and failed me as I beheld tears trickle fast from between his fingers; a groan burst from his heaving breast. I paused; at length he spoke, in broken accents: ‘Unhappy man! Do you share my madness? Have you drunk also of the intoxicating draught? Hear me; let me reveal my tale, and you will dash the cup from your lips!’
现在，他的病已经痊愈很多，并且一直在甲板上，显然是在寻找先于他自己的雪橇。然而，尽管他不快乐，但他并没有完全沉浸在自己的痛苦之中，而是对他人的计划深感兴趣。他经常与我谈论我的事情，我也毫不掩饰地传达给他。他仔细地了解了我所有支持我最终成功的论点，以及我为确保成功而采取的措施的每一个细节。我很容易被他所表现出的同情所引导，用我内心的语言，表达我灵魂中燃烧的热情，并以所有温暖我的热情说，我多么乐意牺牲我的财产，我的财产。存在，是我的每一个希望，是为了我的事业的发展。为了获得我所寻求的知识，为了获得并传递对我们种族的基本敌人的统治权，一个人的生或死只是一个小小的代价。当我说话时，听者的脸上浮现出一种阴沉的表情。起初我察觉到他试图压抑自己的情绪；但他并没有这么做。他把手放在眼前，当我看到泪水从他的手指间快速流下时，我的声音颤抖着，失语了。他起伏的胸膛里发出一声呻吟。我停了下来；最后他用断断续续的口音说道：“不幸的人！”你和我一样疯狂吗？你也喝过醉人的酒吗？听我说;让我揭露我的故事，你就会把杯子从嘴上摔下来！

Such words, you may imagine, strongly excited my curiosity; but the paroxysm of grief that had seized the stranger overcame his weakened powers, and many hours of repose and tranquil conversation were necessary to restore his composure.
你可以想象，这些话强烈地激发了我的好奇心。但这位陌生人突然爆发的悲痛克服了他虚弱的力量，需要许多小时的休息和平静的谈话才能恢复他的镇静。

Having conquered the violence of his feelings, he appeared to despise himself for being the slave of passion; and quelling the dark tyranny of despair, he led me again to converse concerning myself personally. He asked me the history of my earlier years. The tale was quickly told, but it awakened various trains of reflection. I spoke of my desire of finding a friend, of my thirst for a more intimate sympathy with a fellow mind than had ever fallen to my lot, and expressed my conviction that a man could boast of little happiness who did not enjoy this blessing.
在克服了强烈的感情之后，他似乎鄙视自己是激情的奴隶。他平息了绝望的黑暗暴政，让我再次谈论我自己。他问我早年的经历。这个故事很快就被讲述了，但它却引发了一系列的反思。我谈到了我想要找到一个朋友的愿望，我渴望与同胞有比我的命运更亲密的同情，并表达了我的信念，一个人如果不享受这种祝福，就不能夸耀什么幸福。

‘I agree with you,’ replied the stranger; ‘we are unfashioned creatures, but half made up, if one wiser, better, dearer than ourselves— such a friend ought to be—do not lend his aid to perfectionate our weak and faulty natures. I once had a friend, the most noble of human creatures, and am entitled, therefore, to judge respecting friendship. You have hope, and the world before you, and have no cause for despair. But I—I have lost everything and cannot begin life anew.’
“我同意你的看法，”陌生人回答道。 “我们是不合时宜的生物，但半成品，如果有一个比我们更聪明、更好、更可爱的人——这样的朋友就应该是——不要帮助我们完善我们软弱和有缺陷的本性。我曾经有一个朋友，他是人类中最崇高的朋友，因此有权判断是否尊重友谊。你有希望，世界就在你面前，没有理由绝望。但我——我失去了一切，无法重新开始生活。

As he said this his countenance became expressive of a calm, settled grief that touched me to the heart. But he was silent and presently retired to his cabin.
当他说这句话的时候，他的表情变得平静、安定的悲伤，让我的心感动不已。但他沉默了，不久就回到了自己的小屋。

Even broken in spirit as he is, no one can feel more deeply than he does the beauties of nature. The starry sky, the sea, and every sight afforded by these wonderful regions seem still to have the power of elevating his soul from earth. Such a man has a double existence: he may suffer misery and be overwhelmed by disappointments, yet when he has retired into himself, he will be like a celestial spirit that has a halo around him, within whose circle no grief or folly ventures.
即使他精神崩溃，也没有人能比他更深刻地感受到大自然的美丽。星空、大海，这些美妙的地方所呈现的每一处景色，似乎仍然有让他的灵魂升华的力量。这样的人具有双重存在：他可能遭受苦难，被失望压垮，但当他退隐到自己的世界时，他就像一个环绕着光环的天神，在它的圆圈内没有悲伤或愚蠢的冒险。

Will you smile at the enthusiasm I express concerning this divine wanderer? You would not if you saw him. You have been tutored and refined by books and retirement from the world, and you are therefore somewhat fastidious; but this only renders you the more fit to appreciate the extraordinary merits of this wonderful man. Sometimes I have endeavoured to discover what quality it is which he possesses that elevates him so immeasurably above any other person I ever knew. I believe it to be an intuitive discernment, a quick but never-failing power of judgment, a penetration into the causes of things, unequalled for clearness and precision; add to this a facility of expression and a voice whose varied intonations are soul-subduing music.
你会对我对这位神圣流浪者表达的热情微笑吗？如果你看到他，你就不会。你受过书本的熏陶和隐逸，所以有些挑剔；但这只会让你更适合欣赏这个伟大人物的非凡优点。有时我努力去发现他所拥有的是什么品质使他远远高于我所认识的任何其他人。我相信它是一种直觉的洞察力，一种快速但永不失败的判断力，一种对事物原因的洞察力，其清晰性和精确性是无与伦比的；除此之外，还有一种表达能力和一种声音，其不同的语调是征服灵魂的音乐。

August 19, 17—
2017 年 8 月 19 日——

Yesterday the stranger said to me, ‘You may easily perceive, Captain Walton, that I have suffered great and unparalleled misfortunes. I had determined at one time that the memory of these evils should die with me, but you have won me to alter my determination. You seek for knowledge and wisdom, as I once did; and I ardently hope that the gratification of your wishes may not be a serpent to sting you, as mine has been. I do not know that the relation of my disasters will be useful to you; yet, when I reflect that you are pursuing the same course, exposing yourself to the same dangers which have rendered me what I am, I imagine that you may deduce an apt moral from my tale, one that may direct you if you succeed in your undertaking and console you in case of failure. Prepare to hear of occurrences which are usually deemed marvellous. Were we among the tamer scenes of nature I might fear to encounter your unbelief, perhaps your ridicule; but many things will appear possible in these wild and mysterious regions which would provoke the laughter of those unacquainted with the ever-varied powers of nature; nor can I doubt but that my tale conveys in its series internal evidence of the truth of the events of which it is composed.’
昨天，陌生人对我说：“沃尔顿船长，你很容易看出，我遭受了巨大的、无与伦比的不幸。我曾经一度决定，这些罪恶的记忆应该与我一起消失，但你让我改变了我的决心。你寻求知识和智慧，就像我曾经做过的那样；我热切地希望，满足你的愿望不会像我的那样成为一条毒蛇来蜇你。我不知道我所描述的灾难对你有用；然而，当我想到你正在追求同样的道路，将自己暴露在同样的危险之中，正是这些危险造就了我，我想你可能会从我的故事中演绎出一个恰当的寓意，如果你成功地实现了自己的目标，它可能会指导你。承担并在失败时安慰你。准备好听到通常被认为是奇妙的事件。如果我们置身于更温和的自然风光之中，我可能会害怕遇到你的不信，也许是你的嘲笑；但是，在这些狂野而神秘的地区，许多事情似乎都是可能的，这会引起那些不熟悉自然力量的人们的笑声；我也不能怀疑，我的故事在其系列中传达了其所组成的事件的真实性的内部证据。

You may easily imagine that I was much gratified by the offered communication, yet I could not endure that he should renew his grief by a recital of his misfortunes. I felt the greatest eagerness to hear the promised narrative, partly from curiosity and partly from a strong desire to ameliorate his fate if it were in my power. I expressed these feelings in my answer.
你可能很容易想象我对所提供的沟通感到非常满意，但我无法忍受他通过讲述他的不幸来重新表达他的悲伤。我非常渴望听到所承诺的叙述，部分是出于好奇，部分是因为如果我有能力的话，我想改善他的命运。我在回答中表达了这些感受。

‘I thank you,’ he replied, ‘for your sympathy, but it is useless; my fate is nearly fulfilled. I wait but for one event, and then I shall repose in peace. I understand your feeling,’ continued he, perceiving that I wished to interrupt him; ‘but you are mistaken, my friend, if thus you will allow me to name you; nothing can alter my destiny; listen to my history, and you will perceive how irrevocably it is determined.’
“我感谢你的同情，”他回答道，“但那是没有用的；我的命运即将实现。我只等待一件事，然后我就会安息。我理解你的感受，”他继续说道，察觉到我想打断他。 “但是，我的朋友，如果你允许我这样称呼你，你就错了；没有什么可以改变我的命运；听听我的历史，你就会明白它的决定是多么不可逆转。”

He then told me that he would commence his narrative the next day when I should be at leisure. This promise drew from me the warmest thanks. I have resolved every night, when I am not imperatively occupied by my duties, to record, as nearly as possible in his own words, what he has related during the day. If I should be engaged, I will at least make notes. This manuscript will doubtless afford you the greatest pleasure; but to me, who know him and who hear it from his own lips—with what interest and sympathy shall I read it in some future day! Even now, as I commence my task, his full-toned voice swells in my ears; his lustrous eyes dwell on me with all their melancholy sweetness; I see his thin hand raised in animation, while the lineaments of his face are irradiated by the soul within. Strange and harrowing must be his story, frightful the storm which embraced the gallant vessel on its course and wrecked it—thus!
然后他告诉我，他将在第二天我有空的时候开始他的叙述。这个承诺引起了我最热烈的感谢。我决定每天晚上，当我没有必须忙于我的职责时，尽可能用他自己的话记录他白天所讲的内容。如果我应该参与，我至少会做笔记。这份手稿无疑会给您带来最大的乐趣；但对我来说，我认识他，也是从他亲口中听到的——将来的某一天，我会怀着多大的兴趣和同情心来读这本书！即使现在，当我开始我的任务时，他浑厚的声音在我耳边回响；他那双明亮的眼睛注视着我，带着忧郁的甜蜜；我看到他瘦弱的手生动地举起，而他脸上的轮廓则被内在的灵魂所照射。他的故事一定是奇怪而悲惨的，可怕的风暴席卷了正在航行中的勇敢的船只并摧毁了它——就这样！

Chapter 1
第1章

I am by birth a Genevese, and my family is one of the most distinguished of that republic. My ancestors had been for many years counsellors and syndics, and my father had filled several public situations with honour and reputation. He was respected by all who knew him for his integrity and indefatigable attention to public business. He passed his younger days perpetually occupied by the affairs of his country; a variety of circumstances had prevented his marrying early, nor was it until the decline of life that he became a husband and the father of a family.
我出生于日内瓦，我的家族是该共和国最显赫的家族之一。我的祖先多年来一直担任顾问和警长，我的父亲曾在多个公共场合担任过荣誉和声誉的职务。他因其正直和对公共事务的不懈关注而受到所有认识他的人的尊敬。他在年轻时一直忙于国家事务。种种境遇使他无法早早结婚，直到人生的衰落，他才成为丈夫和家庭的父亲。

As the circumstances of his marriage illustrate his character, I cannot refrain from relating them. One of his most intimate friends was a merchant who, from a flourishing state, fell, through numerous mischances, into poverty. This man, whose name was Beaufort, was of a proud and unbending disposition and could not bear to live in poverty and oblivion in the same country where he had formerly been distinguished for his rank and magnificence. Having paid his debts, therefore, in the most honourable manner, he retreated with his daughter to the town of Lucerne, where he lived unknown and in wretchedness. My father loved Beaufort with the truest friendship and was deeply grieved by his retreat in these unfortunate circumstances. He bitterly deplored the false pride which led his friend to a conduct so little worthy of the affection that united them. He lost no time in endeavouring to seek him out, with the hope of persuading him to begin the world again through his credit and assistance.
由于他的婚姻状况说明了他的性格，我无法避免提及这些情况。他最亲密的朋友之一是一位商人，他从繁荣的状态开始，由于无数的不幸而陷入贫困。这个名叫博福特的人性情骄傲、不屈不挠，无法忍受在他以前因地位和辉煌而闻名的那个国家生活在贫困和遗忘中。因此，在偿还了债务之后，他以最光荣的方式带着女儿撤退到卢塞恩镇，在那里他过着默默无闻、悲惨的生活。我的父亲以最真挚的友谊爱着博福特，并对他在这种不幸的情况下退却深感悲痛。他对他的朋友的虚假骄傲感到痛心疾首，这种骄傲导致他的朋友做出了如此不值得将他们团结起来的感情的行为。他不失时机地寻找他，希望通过他的信用和帮助说服他重新开始这个世界。

Beaufort had taken effectual measures to conceal himself, and it was ten months before my father discovered his abode. Overjoyed at this discovery, he hastened to the house, which was situated in a mean street near the Reuss. But when he entered, misery and despair alone welcomed him. Beaufort had saved but a very small sum of money from the wreck of his fortunes, but it was sufficient to provide him with sustenance for some months, and in the meantime he hoped to procure some respectable employment in a merchant’s house. The interval was, consequently, spent in inaction; his grief only became more deep and rankling when he had leisure for reflection, and at length it took so fast hold of his mind that at the end of three months he lay on a bed of sickness, incapable of any exertion.
博福特采取了有效的隐藏措施，十个月后我父亲才发现他的住处。他对这一发现欣喜若狂，急忙赶到位于罗伊斯河附近一条简陋街道上的房子。但当他进来时，迎接他的只有痛苦和绝望。博福特从破产中只攒下了很少的钱，但这足以让他维持几个月的生活，同时他希望在商人家里找到一份体面的工作。结果，这段时间就无所事事地度过了。当他有时间思考时，他的悲伤只会变得更加深沉和痛苦，最终它如此迅速地占据了他的思想，以至于三个月后他躺在病床上，无法做任何努力。

His daughter attended him with the greatest tenderness, but she saw with despair that their little fund was rapidly decreasing and that there was no other prospect of support. But Caroline Beaufort possessed a mind of an uncommon mould, and her courage rose to support her in her adversity. She procured plain work; she plaited straw and by various means contrived to earn a pittance scarcely sufficient to support life.
他的女儿非常温柔地照顾他，但她绝望地看到他们的一点钱正在迅速减少，而且没有其他的支持前景。但卡罗琳·博福特有着不寻常的头脑，她在逆境中鼓起勇气支持她。她找到了一份简单的工作；她用稻草编辫子，想方设法挣点微薄的钱，勉强维持生活。

Several months passed in this manner. Her father grew worse; her time was more entirely occupied in attending him; her means of subsistence decreased; and in the tenth month her father died in her arms, leaving her an orphan and a beggar. This last blow overcame her, and she knelt by Beaufort’s coffin weeping bitterly, when my father entered the chamber. He came like a protecting spirit to the poor girl, who committed herself to his care; and after the interment of his friend he conducted her to Geneva and placed her under the protection of a relation. Two years after this event Caroline became his wife.
就这样，几个月过去了。她父亲的病情恶化了。她的时间更多地花在照顾他上。她的生活资料减少了；第十个月，她的父亲死在她怀里，留下她成为孤儿和乞丐。这最后的打击压倒了她，当我父亲走进房间时，她跪在博福特的棺材旁痛哭。他就像一个保护神一样来到这个可怜的女孩身边，让她全心全意地照顾她。在他的朋友安葬后，他将她带到了日内瓦，并将她置于一位亲戚的保护之下。此事发生两年后，卡罗琳成为了他的妻子。

There was a considerable difference between the ages of my parents, but this circumstance seemed to unite them only closer in bonds of devoted affection. There was a sense of justice in my father’s upright mind which rendered it necessary that he should approve highly to love strongly. Perhaps during former years he had suffered from the late-discovered unworthiness of one beloved and so was disposed to set a greater value on tried worth. There was a show of gratitude and worship in his attachment to my mother, differing wholly from the doting fondness of age, for it was inspired by reverence for her virtues and a desire to be the means of, in some degree, recompensing her for the sorrows she had endured, but which gave inexpressible grace to his behaviour to her. Everything was made to yield to her wishes and her convenience. He strove to shelter her, as a fair exotic is sheltered by the gardener, from every rougher wind and to surround her with all that could tend to excite pleasurable emotion in her soft and benevolent mind. Her health, and even the tranquillity of her hitherto constant spirit, had been shaken by what she had gone through. During the two years that had elapsed previous to their marriage my father had gradually relinquished all his public functions; and immediately after their union they sought the pleasant climate of Italy, and the change of scene and interest attendant on a tour through that land of wonders, as a restorative for her weakened frame.
我父母的年龄相差很大，但这种情况似乎使他们的感情纽带更加紧密。父亲正直的心灵里有一种正义感，所以他必须高度认可才能强烈地去爱。也许在过去的几年里，他因为后来发现自己所爱的人不值得而遭受痛苦，因此倾向于更加看重尝试过的价值。他对我母亲的依恋中流露出感激和崇拜，这与年老时的溺爱完全不同，因为他对母亲的美德怀有敬意，并渴望在某种程度上补偿她的付出。她忍受了悲伤，但这却给他对她的行为带来了难以言喻的恩典。一切都是为了满足她的愿望和她的方便。他努力保护她，就像园丁保护美丽的异域风情一样，让她免受狂风的侵袭，并用一切能够在她柔软仁慈的心灵中激发愉悦情绪的东西包围着她。她的健康，甚至她一直以来的平静精神，都因她所经历的事情而动摇了。在他们结婚前的两年里，我父亲逐渐放弃了所有的公共职能。他们结婚后不久，他们就寻求意大利宜人的气候，以及在这片神奇的土地上旅行所带来的场景和兴趣的变化，作为她虚弱的身体的恢复。

From Italy they visited Germany and France. I, their eldest child, was born at Naples, and as an infant accompanied them in their rambles. I remained for several years their only child. Much as they were attached to each other, they seemed to draw inexhaustible stores of affection from a very mine of love to bestow them upon me. My mother’s tender caresses and my father’s smile of benevolent pleasure while regarding me are my first recollections. I was their plaything and their idol, and something better—their child, the innocent and helpless creature bestowed on them by heaven, whom to bring up to good, and whose future lot it was in their hands to direct to happiness or misery, according as they fulfilled their duties towards me. With this deep consciousness of what they owed towards the being to which they had given life, added to the active spirit of tenderness that animated both, it may be imagined that while during every hour of my infant life I received a lesson of patience, of charity, and of self-control, I was so guided by a silken cord that all seemed but one train of enjoyment to me.
他们从意大利访问了德国和法国。我，他们的长子，出生在那不勒斯，婴儿时期就陪伴他们漫步。几年来，我一直是他们唯一的孩子。尽管他们彼此依恋，但他们似乎从爱的宝藏中汲取了无穷无尽的感情来赐给我。母亲温柔的爱抚和父亲看着我时充满慈爱和喜悦的微笑是我最初的记忆。我是他们的玩物，他们的偶像，而且是更好的东西——他们的孩子，上天赐予他们的天真无助的生物，他们要养育他们向善，而他们未来的命运则掌握在他们的手中，引导他们走向幸福或痛苦。因为他们履行了对我的职责。有了这种对他们赋予生命的存在的深刻认识，再加上激发两者活力的积极温柔精神，可以想象，在我婴儿生活的每个小时里，我都接受了耐心的教训，慈善、自我控制，我被一根丝绳所引导，对我来说，这一切似乎只是一列享受。

For a long time I was their only care. My mother had much desired to have a daughter, but I continued their single offspring. When I was about five years old, while making an excursion beyond the frontiers of Italy, they passed a week on the shores of the Lake of Como. Their benevolent disposition often made them enter the cottages of the poor. This, to my mother, was more than a duty; it was a necessity, a passion—remembering what she had suffered, and how she had been relieved—for her to act in her turn the guardian angel to the afflicted. During one of their walks a poor cot in the foldings of a vale attracted their notice as being singularly disconsolate, while the number of half-clothed children gathered about it spoke of penury in its worst shape. One day, when my father had gone by himself to Milan, my mother, accompanied by me, visited this abode. She found a peasant and his wife, hard working, bent down by care and labour, distributing a scanty meal to five hungry babes. Among these there was one which attracted my mother far above all the rest. She appeared of a different stock. The four others were dark-eyed, hardy little vagrants; this child was thin and very fair. Her hair was the brightest living gold, and despite the poverty of her clothing, seemed to set a crown of distinction on her head. Her brow was clear and ample, her blue eyes cloudless, and her lips and the moulding of her face so expressive of sensibility and sweetness that none could behold her without looking on her as of a distinct species, a being heaven-sent, and bearing a celestial stamp in all her features.
很长一段时间，我是他们唯一的照顾。我的母亲非常渴望有一个女儿，但我却继续他们的单身后代。当我大约五岁的时候，在一次跨越意大利边境的旅行中，他们在科莫湖畔度过了一周。他们的仁慈性格常常使他们走进穷人的小屋。对我母亲来说，这不仅仅是一种义务；更是一种责任。对她来说，将守护天使变成受苦者的守护天使是必要的，是一种激情——记住她所遭受的痛苦，以及她是如何得到解脱的。有一次他们散步时，山谷褶皱处的一张简陋的简易床引起了他们的注意，因为它异常令人沮丧，而聚集在它周围的许多半裸的孩子则说明了最糟糕的贫困状况。有一天，父亲独自去米兰，母亲在我的陪同下参观了这处住所。她发现一个农民和他的妻子正在辛勤地工作，在照顾和劳动中弯下腰，给五个饥饿的婴儿分发少量的食物。其中，有一件事情最吸引我的母亲。她看起来与众不同。另外四个人都是黑眼睛、坚强的小流浪汉。这孩子很瘦，而且很白皙。她的头发是最闪亮的金色，尽管她的衣服简陋，但似乎在她的头上戴了一顶尊贵的王冠。她的眉毛清晰而宽大，她的蓝眼睛清澈见底，她的嘴唇和脸型都表现出感性和甜美，任何人看到她都会觉得她是一个独特的物种，一个天赐的、有气质的人。她的所有特征都带有天国的印记。

The peasant woman, perceiving that my mother fixed eyes of wonder and admiration on this lovely girl, eagerly communicated her history. She was not her child, but the daughter of a Milanese nobleman. Her mother was a German and had died on giving her birth. The infant had been placed with these good people to nurse: they were better off then. They had not been long married, and their eldest child was but just born. The father of their charge was one of those Italians nursed in the memory of the antique glory of Italy—one among the *schiavi ognor frementi*, who exerted himself to obtain the liberty of his country. He became the victim of its weakness. Whether he had died or still lingered in the dungeons of Austria was not known. His property was confiscated; his child became an orphan and a beggar. She continued with her foster parents and bloomed in their rude abode, fairer than a garden rose among dark-leaved brambles.
农妇察觉到母亲用惊奇和钦佩的目光注视着这个可爱的女孩，就急切地讲述了她的故事。她不是她的孩子，而是一位米兰贵族的女儿。她的母亲是德国人，在生下她时去世。婴儿被安置在这些好人身边来护理：那时他们的处境更好了。他们结婚时间不长，最大的孩子刚刚出生。他们的父亲是一位怀念意大利古代辉煌的意大利人，他是*斯基亚维·奥格诺·弗雷门蒂*中的一员，他为获得国家的自由而奋斗。他成为其弱点的受害者。他是死了，还是仍在奥地利的地牢里徘徊，不得而知。他的财产被没收；他的孩子成了孤儿和乞丐。她继续和她的养父母在一起，在他们简陋的住所里绽放，比黑叶荆棘丛中的花园玫瑰还要美丽。

When my father returned from Milan, he found playing with me in the hall of our villa a child fairer than pictured cherub— a creature who seemed to shed radiance from her looks and whose form and motions were lighter than the chamois of the hills. The apparition was soon explained. With his permission my mother prevailed on her rustic guardians to yield their charge to her. They were fond of the sweet orphan. Her presence had seemed a blessing to them, but it would be unfair to her to keep her in poverty and want when Providence afforded her such powerful protection. They consulted their village priest, and the result was that Elizabeth Lavenza became the inmate of my parents’ house— my more than sister—the beautiful and adored companion of all my occupations and my pleasures.
当我父亲从米兰回来时，他发现在我们别墅的大厅里和我一起玩耍的孩子比照片上的小天使还要美丽——这种生物似乎从她的外表中散发出光芒，其体形和动作比山上的麂皮还要轻盈。这个现象很快就得到了解释。在他的允许下，我母亲说服了她乡下的监护人将他们的职责交给了她。他们很喜欢这个可爱的孤儿。她的出现对他们来说似乎是一种祝福，但当上帝为她提供如此强大的保护时，让她陷入贫困和匮乏对她来说是不公平的。他们咨询了乡村牧师，结果是伊丽莎白·拉文扎成为了我父母家里的住户——不仅仅是我的妹妹——她是我所有职业和快乐的美丽和受人爱戴的伴侣。

Everyone loved Elizabeth. The passionate and almost reverential attachment with which all regarded her became, while I shared it, my pride and my delight. On the evening previous to her being brought to my home, my mother had said playfully, ‘I have a pretty present for my Victor— tomorrow he shall have it.’ And when, on the morrow, she presented Elizabeth to me as her promised gift, I, with childish seriousness, interpreted her words literally and looked upon Elizabeth as mine—mine to protect, love, and cherish. All praises bestowed on her I received as made to a possession of my own. We called each other familiarly by the name of cousin. No word, no expression could body forth the kind of relation in which she stood to me—my more than sister, since till death she was to be mine only.
每个人都喜欢伊丽莎白。所有人对她的热情和近乎虔诚的依恋，在我分享的同时，也变成了我的骄傲和喜悦。在她被带到我家的前一天晚上，我母亲开玩笑地说：“我有一件漂亮的礼物要送给我的维克多——明天他就会收到它。”第二天，她按照她的承诺把伊丽莎白送给了我。礼物，我带着孩子般的严肃，从字面上解释了她的话，并将伊丽莎白视为我的——我的保护，爱和珍惜。我收到的所有对她的赞美都像是我自己的财产。我们亲切地称呼对方为表弟的名字。任何言语、任何表达都无法体现她与我的关系——她不仅仅是我的妹妹，因为直到死亡她都只属于我。

Chapter 2
第2章

We were brought up together; there was not quite a year difference in our ages. I need not say that we were strangers to any species of disunion or dispute. Harmony was the soul of our companionship, and the diversity and contrast that subsisted in our characters drew us nearer together. Elizabeth was of a calmer and more concentrated disposition; but, with all my ardour, I was capable of a more intense application and was more deeply smitten with the thirst for knowledge. She busied herself with following the aerial creations of the poets; and in the majestic and wondrous scenes which surrounded our Swiss home—the sublime shapes of the mountains, the changes of the seasons, tempest and calm, the silence of winter, and the life and turbulence of our Alpine summers—she found ample scope for admiration and delight. While my companion contemplated with a serious and satisfied spirit the magnificent appearances of things, I delighted in investigating their causes. The world was to me a secret which I desired to divine. Curiosity, earnest research to learn the hidden laws of nature, gladness akin to rapture, as they were unfolded to me, are among the earliest sensations I can remember.
我们是一起长大的；我们的年龄相差不大。不用说，我们对任何形式的不和或争端都是陌生的。和谐是我们友谊的灵魂，我们性格中存在的多样性和对比使我们更加亲近。伊丽莎白性格比较平静，也比较专注。但是，尽管我充满热情，但我能够更加强烈地应用，并且对知识的渴求更加强烈。她忙于追踪诗人的空中创作；在我们瑞士家乡周围雄伟而奇妙的景色中——山脉的雄伟形状、季节的变化、暴风雨和平静、冬天的寂静、阿尔卑斯山夏天的生机和动荡——她发现了充足的空间钦佩和欣喜。当我的同伴以严肃而满足的精神思考事物的壮丽外表时，我却乐于探究它们的原因。世界对我来说是一个我渴望探知的秘密。好奇心、对自然隐藏规律的认真研究、近乎狂喜的喜悦，当它们向我展开时，是我记忆中最早的感觉之一。

On the birth of a second son, my junior by seven years, my parents gave up entirely their wandering life and fixed themselves in their native country. We possessed a house in Geneva, and a campagne on Belrive, the eastern shore of the lake, at the distance of rather more than a league from the city. We resided principally in the latter, and the lives of my parents were passed in considerable seclusion. It was my temper to avoid a crowd and to attach myself fervently to a few. I was indifferent, therefore, to my school-fellows in general; but I united myself in the bonds of the closest friendship to one among them. Henry Clerval was the son of a merchant of Geneva. He was a boy of singular talent and fancy. He loved enterprise, hardship, and even danger for its own sake. He was deeply read in books of chivalry and romance. He composed heroic songs and began to write many a tale of enchantment and knightly adventure. He tried to make us act plays and to enter into masquerades, in which the characters were drawn from the heroes of Roncesvalles, of the Round Table of King Arthur, and the chivalrous train who shed their blood to redeem the holy sepulchre from the hands of the infidels.
当第二个儿子（比我小七岁）出生时，我的父母完全放弃了漂泊的生活，定居在自己的祖国。我们在日内瓦拥有一栋房子，在湖东岸贝尔里夫拥有一处乡村，距离城市超过一里格。我们主要居住在后者，我父母的生活相当隐秘。我的性格就是避开人群而热衷于少数人。因此，我对我的同学们普遍漠不关心。但我与其中一位以最亲密的友谊联系在一起。亨利·克莱瓦尔是日内瓦商人的儿子。他是一个才华横溢、想象力丰富的男孩。他热爱进取，热爱艰辛，甚至热爱冒险。他对武侠小说和言情小说都有深入的阅读。他创作了英雄歌曲，并开始撰写许多魔法和骑士冒险的故事。他试图让我们表演戏剧并参加化装舞会，其中的角色来自龙塞斯瓦莱斯的英雄，亚瑟王圆桌会议的英雄，以及为从国王手中赎回圣墓而流血的骑士队伍。异教徒。

No human being could have passed a happier childhood than myself. My parents were possessed by the very spirit of kindness and indulgence. We felt that they were not the tyrants to rule our lot according to their caprice, but the agents and creators of all the many delights which we enjoyed. When I mingled with other families I distinctly discerned how peculiarly fortunate my lot was, and gratitude assisted the development of filial love.
没有人能比我度过更快乐的童年。我的父母充满了仁慈和宽容的精神。我们觉得他们不是随心所欲地统治我们命运的暴君，而是我们享受的所有快乐的代理人和创造者。当我与其他家庭交往时，我清楚地认识到自己的命运是多么的幸运，感恩之心有助于培养孝心。

My temper was sometimes violent, and my passions vehement; but by some law in my temperature they were turned not towards childish pursuits but to an eager desire to learn, and not to learn all things indiscriminately. I confess that neither the structure of languages, nor the code of governments, nor the politics of various states possessed attractions for me. It was the secrets of heaven and earth that I desired to learn; and whether it was the outward substance of things or the inner spirit of nature and the mysterious soul of man that occupied me, still my inquiries were directed to the metaphysical, or in its highest sense, the physical secrets of the world.
我的脾气有时很暴躁，我的激情也很强烈；但根据我的体温的某种规律，他们不会转向幼稚的追求，而是转向渴望学习，而不是不加区别地学习所有东西。我承认，无论是语言的结构，还是政府的法典，还是各国的政治，都对我没有吸引力。我所欲知的是天地之奥秘；无论是事物的外在本质，还是自然的内在精神和人类神秘的灵魂，我的探究仍然是针对形而上学的，或者从最高意义上来说，是世界的物理秘密。

Meanwhile Clerval occupied himself, so to speak, with the moral relations of things. The busy stage of life, the virtues of heroes, and the actions of men were his theme; and his hope and his dream was to become one among those whose names are recorded in story as the gallant and adventurous benefactors of our species. The saintly soul of Elizabeth shone like a shrine-dedicated lamp in our peaceful home. Her sympathy was ours; her smile, her soft voice, the sweet glance of her celestial eyes, were ever there to bless and animate us. She was the living spirit of love to soften and attract; I might have become sullen in my study, through the ardour of my nature, but that she was there to subdue me to a semblance of her own gentleness. And Clerval—could aught ill entrench on the noble spirit of Clerval? Yet he might not have been so perfectly humane, so thoughtful in his generosity, so full of kindness and tenderness amidst his passion for adventurous exploit, had she not unfolded to him the real loveliness of beneficence and made the doing good the end and aim of his soaring ambition.
与此同时，可以说，克莱瓦尔全神贯注于事物的道德关系。忙碌的人生阶段、英雄的美德、男人的行为是他的主题；他的希望和梦想是成为那些名字被记录在故事中的人中的一员，成为我们人类勇敢和冒险的恩人。伊丽莎白的圣洁灵魂就像一盏神社专用的灯在我们宁静的家里闪闪发光。我们也同情她；她的微笑，她柔和的声音，她天眼的甜蜜目光，一直在祝福我们，激励我们。她是爱的活泼精灵，可以软化和吸引；由于我天性的热情，我可能会在学习中变得闷闷不乐，但她在那里是为了让我表现出她自己的温柔。还有克莱瓦尔——难道还有什么会损害克莱瓦尔的高贵精神吗？然而，如果她没有向他展示仁慈的真正可爱，并把行善作为他的目的和目的，他可能不会如此完美的人道，如此慷慨的体贴，在他对冒险事业的热情中如此充满仁慈和温柔。他那高涨的野心。

I feel exquisite pleasure in dwelling on the recollections of childhood, before misfortune had tainted my mind and changed its bright visions of extensive usefulness into gloomy and narrow reflections upon self. Besides, in drawing the picture of my early days, I also record those events which led, by insensible steps, to my after tale of misery, for when I would account to myself for the birth of that passion which afterward ruled my destiny I find it arise, like a mountain river, from ignoble and almost forgotten sources; but, swelling as it proceeded, it became the torrent which, in its course, has swept away all my hopes and joys. Natural philosophy is the genius that has regulated my fate; I desire, therefore, in this narration, to state those facts which led to my predilection for that science. When I was thirteen years of age we all went on a party of pleasure to the baths near Thonon; the inclemency of the weather obliged us to remain a day confined to the inn. In this house I chanced to find a volume of the works of Cornelius Agrippa. I opened it with apathy; the theory which he attempts to demonstrate and the wonderful facts which he relates soon changed this feeling into enthusiasm. A new light seemed to dawn upon my mind, and bounding with joy, I communicated my discovery to my father. My father looked carelessly at the title page of my book and said, ‘Ah! Cornelius Agrippa! My dear Victor, do not waste your time upon this; it is sad trash.’
在不幸玷污我的心灵，将其广泛有用的光明愿景变成对自我的阴暗和狭隘反思之前，我在沉思童年的回忆中感到无比的快乐。此外，在描绘我早年生活的过程中，我还记录了那些不知不觉中导致我后来的悲惨故事的事件，因为当我向自己解释后来主宰我命运的激情的诞生时，我发现它就像山间河流一样，源自卑鄙且几乎被遗忘的源头；但是，随着它的发展，它变成了洪流，在它的过程中，席卷了我所有的希望和欢乐。自然哲学是调节我命运的天才；因此，我希望在这篇叙述中陈述那些导致我偏爱这门科学的事实。当我十三岁的时候，我们全家去托农附近的浴场参加了一次快乐的聚会；恶劣的天气迫使我们在旅馆里待了一天。在这所房子里，我偶然发现了一卷科尼利厄斯·阿格里帕的作品。我冷漠地打开它；他试图论证的理论和他所讲述的奇妙事实很快就把这种感觉变成了热情。我的脑海中似乎出现了新的曙光，我高兴地跳了起来，把我的发现告诉了父亲。父亲漫不经心地看着我书的扉页，说：‘啊！科尼利厄斯·阿格里帕！我亲爱的维克多，不要在这上面浪费你的时间；这是可悲的垃圾。

If, instead of this remark, my father had taken the pains to explain to me that the principles of Agrippa had been entirely exploded and that a modern system of science had been introduced which possessed much greater powers than the ancient, because the powers of the latter were chimerical, while those of the former were real and practical, under such circumstances I should certainly have thrown Agrippa aside and have contented my imagination, warmed as it was, by returning with greater ardour to my former studies. It is even possible that the train of my ideas would never have received the fatal impulse that led to my ruin. But the cursory glance my father had taken of my volume by no means assured me that he was acquainted with its contents, and I continued to read with the greatest avidity. When I returned home my first care was to procure the whole works of this author, and afterwards of Paracelsus and Albertus Magnus. I read and studied the wild fancies of these writers with delight; they appeared to me treasures known to few besides myself. I have described myself as always having been imbued with a fervent longing to penetrate the secrets of nature. In spite of the intense labour and wonderful discoveries of modern philosophers, I always came from my studies discontented and unsatisfied. Sir Isaac Newton is said to have avowed that he felt like a child picking up shells beside the great and unexplored ocean of truth. Those of his successors in each branch of natural philosophy with whom I was acquainted appeared even to my boy’s apprehensions as tyros engaged in the same pursuit.
如果我父亲没有说这句话，而是煞费苦心地向我解释阿格里帕的原理已经完全被推翻，并且引入了一种现代科学体系，它拥有比古代科学体系更强大的力量，因为科学的力量后者是空想的，而前者是真实的和实际的，在这种情况下，我当然应该把阿格里帕抛在一边，并通过以更大的热情回到我以前的学习来满足我的想象力，尽管它已经温暖了。甚至有可能我的一系列想法永远不会受到导致我毁灭的致命冲动。但我父亲粗略地浏览了我的书，但这并不能让我确信他熟悉其中的内容，我继续以最大的热情阅读。当我回到家时，我首先关心的是购买这位作者的全部作品，然后是帕拉塞尔苏斯和阿尔伯特·马格努斯的作品。我欣喜地阅读和研究了这些作家的疯狂幻想。在我看来，它们就像是除了我自己之外很少有人知道的宝藏。我形容自己始终充满着探究自然秘密的强烈渴望。尽管现代哲学家付出了辛勤的劳动和奇妙的发现，但我总是对我的研究感到不满和不满足。据说艾萨克·牛顿爵士曾坦言，他感觉就像一个孩子在伟大的、未经探索的真理海洋旁捡贝壳。我所认识的他在自然哲学各个分支的继承者们甚至在我儿子看来，就像从事同样追求的新手一样。

The untaught peasant beheld the elements around him and was acquainted with their practical uses. The most learned philosopher knew little more. He had partially unveiled the face of Nature, but her immortal lineaments were still a wonder and a mystery. He might dissect, anatomize, and give names; but, not to speak of a final cause, causes in their secondary and tertiary grades were utterly unknown to him. I had gazed upon the fortifications and impediments that seemed to keep human beings from entering the citadel of nature, and rashly and ignorantly I had repined.
未受过教育的农民观察了他周围的元素并熟悉了它们的实际用途。最有学问的哲学家知道的也很少。他已经部分揭开了大自然的面容，但她不朽的面容仍然是一个奇迹和一个谜。他可以解剖、解剖并命名；但不说最终的原因，就连他们中学、大学的原因他也全然不知道。我凝视着似乎阻止人类进入自然堡垒的防御工事和障碍，我轻率而无知地抱怨起来。

But here were books, and here were men who had penetrated deeper and knew more. I took their word for all that they averred, and I became their disciple. It may appear strange that such should arise in the eighteenth century; but while I followed the routine of education in the schools of Geneva, I was, to a great degree, self-taught with regard to my favourite studies. My father was not scientific, and I was left to struggle with a child’s blindness, added to a student’s thirst for knowledge. Under the guidance of my new preceptors I entered with the greatest diligence into the search of the philosopher’s stone and the elixir of life; but the latter soon obtained my undivided attention. Wealth was an inferior object, but what glory would attend the discovery if I could banish disease from the human frame and render man invulnerable to any but a violent death! Nor were these my only visions. The raising of ghosts or devils was a promise liberally accorded by my favourite authors, the fulfillment of which I most eagerly sought; and if my incantations were always unsuccessful, I attributed the failure rather to my own inexperience and mistake than to a want of skill or fidelity in my instructors. And thus for a time I was occupied by exploded systems, mingling, like an unadept, a thousand contradictory theories and floundering desperately in a very slough of multifarious knowledge, guided by an ardent imagination and childish reasoning, till an accident again changed the current of my ideas. When I was about fifteen years old we had retired to our house near Belrive, when we witnessed a most violent and terrible thunderstorm. It advanced from behind the mountains of Jura, and the thunder burst at once with frightful loudness from various quarters of the heavens. I remained, while the storm lasted, watching its progress with curiosity and delight. As I stood at the door, on a sudden I beheld a stream of fire issue from an old and beautiful oak which stood about twenty yards from our house; and so soon as the dazzling light vanished, the oak had disappeared, and nothing remained but a blasted stump. When we visited it the next morning, we found the tree shattered in a singular manner. It was not splintered by the shock, but entirely reduced to thin ribbons of wood. I never beheld anything so utterly destroyed.
但这里有书籍，这里有更深入、了解更多的人。我相信他们所说的一切，并成为他们的门徒。这种事发生在 18 世纪，可能会显得很奇怪。虽然我在日内瓦学校接受常规教育，但在很大程度上，我最喜欢的学习是自学的。我的父亲不懂科学，而我则不得不与孩子的失明作斗争，这增加了学生对知识的渴望。在我的新导师的指导下，我以最大的努力开始寻找点金石和长生不老药。但后者很快引起了我的全神贯注。财富是一个低等的物体，但是如果我能够从人体中消除疾病，使人类除了暴力死亡之外不会受到任何伤害，那么这个发现将是多么荣耀啊！这些并不是我唯一的愿景。唤起鬼魂或魔鬼是我最喜欢的作家慷慨许下的承诺，也是我最渴望实现的。如果我的咒语总是不成功，我会将失败归咎于我自己的经验不足和错误，而不是归咎于我的导师缺乏技巧或忠诚。因此，有一段时间，我被爆炸性的系统所占据，像一个不熟练的人一样，混合着上千种相互矛盾的理论，在热情的想象力和幼稚的推理的引导下，在五花八门的知识泥沼中绝望地挣扎，直到一场意外再次改变了潮流。我的想法。当我大约十五岁时，我们退休到贝尔里夫附近的房子，当时我们目睹了一场最猛烈、最可怕的雷暴。它从汝拉山脉的后方袭来，雷霆立刻从天空的各个角落爆发出来，发出可怕的响声。 暴风雨持续期间，我留下来，怀着好奇和喜悦的心情观察着它的进展。当我站在门口时，突然我看到一股火流从距离我们房子大约二十码的一棵古老而美丽的橡树中喷出；耀眼的光芒一消失，橡树就消失了，只剩下一根枯萎的树桩。当我们第二天早上去拜访它时，我们发现这棵树以一种奇怪的方式破碎了。它并没有被冲击击碎，而是完全变成了细木条。我从来没有见过任何东西被如此彻底地摧毁。

Before this I was not unacquainted with the more obvious laws of electricity. On this occasion a man of great research in natural philosophy was with us, and excited by this catastrophe, he entered on the explanation of a theory which he had formed on the subject of electricity and galvanism, which was at once new and astonishing to me. All that he said threw greatly into the shade Cornelius Agrippa, Albertus Magnus, and Paracelsus, the lords of my imagination; but by some fatality the overthrow of these men disinclined me to pursue my accustomed studies. It seemed to me as if nothing would or could ever be known. All that had so long engaged my attention suddenly grew despicable. By one of those caprices of the mind which we are perhaps most subject to in early youth, I at once gave up my former occupations, set down natural history and all its progeny as a deformed and abortive creation, and entertained the greatest disdain for a would-be science which could never even step within the threshold of real knowledge. In this mood of mind I betook myself to the mathematics and the branches of study appertaining to that science as being built upon secure foundations, and so worthy of my consideration.
在此之前，我对更明显的电定律并不陌生。这次，一位对自然哲学有伟大研究的人和我们在一起，他对这场灾难感到兴奋，开始解释他在电和流电学主题上形成的理论，这对我来说是新的和令人惊讶的。他所说的一切都让我想象中的领主科尼利厄斯·阿格里帕、阿尔贝图斯·马格努斯和帕拉塞尔苏斯黯然失色。但不幸的是，这些人的推翻使我无法继续我惯常的研究。在我看来，似乎什么都不会或永远不可能被知道。长期以来吸引我注意力的一切突然变得卑鄙。由于我们在青年时代可能最容易受到思想反复无常的影响，我立即放弃了以前的职业，将博物学及其所有后代视为畸形和流产的创造物，并对自然历史表示最大的蔑视。未来的科学甚至永远无法迈入真正知识的门槛。在这种心态下，我开始研究数学和与该科学相关的研究分支，因为它们建立在牢固的基础上，因此值得我考虑。

Thus strangely are our souls constructed, and by such slight ligaments are we bound to prosperity or ruin. When I look back, it seems to me as if this almost miraculous change of inclination and will was the immediate suggestion of the guardian angel of my life—the last effort made by the spirit of preservation to avert the storm that was even then hanging in the stars and ready to envelop me. Her victory was announced by an unusual tranquillity and gladness of soul which followed the relinquishing of my ancient and latterly tormenting studies. It was thus that I was to be taught to associate evil with their prosecution, happiness with their disregard.
我们的灵魂就是这样奇怪地构造出来的，我们的繁荣或毁灭就由如此微小的韧带所束缚。当我回首往事时，在我看来，这种倾向和意志近乎奇迹般的变化似乎是我生命守护天使的直接暗示——保护精神为避免当时就已经悬而未决的风暴所做的最后努力。星星准备包围我。在我放弃了古老而近来折磨人的研究之后，我的灵魂出现了一种不同寻常的平静和快乐，宣告了她的胜利。正是这样，我被教导将邪恶与他们的起诉联系起来，将幸福与他们的漠视联系起来。

It was a strong effort of the spirit of good, but it was ineffectual. Destiny was too potent, and her immutable laws had decreed my utter and terrible destruction.
这是善良精神的强烈努力，但没有效果。命运太强大了，她那不可改变的法则已经注定了我彻底而可怕的毁灭。

Chapter 3
第3章

When I had attained the age of seventeen my parents resolved that I should become a student at the university of Ingolstadt. I had hitherto attended the schools of Geneva, but my father thought it necessary for the completion of my education that I should be made acquainted with other customs than those of my native country. My departure was therefore fixed at an early date, but before the day resolved upon could arrive, the first misfortune of my life occurred—an omen, as it were, of my future misery. Elizabeth had caught the scarlet fever; her illness was severe, and she was in the greatest danger. During her illness many arguments had been urged to persuade my mother to refrain from attending upon her. She had at first yielded to our entreaties, but when she heard that the life of her favourite was menaced, she could no longer control her anxiety. She attended her sickbed; her watchful attentions triumphed over the malignity of the distemper—Elizabeth was saved, but the consequences of this imprudence were fatal to her preserver. On the third day my mother sickened; her fever was accompanied by the most alarming symptoms, and the looks of her medical attendants prognosticated the worst event. On her deathbed the fortitude and benignity of this best of women did not desert her. She joined the hands of Elizabeth and myself. ‘My children,’ she said, ‘my firmest hopes of future happiness were placed on the prospect of your union. This expectation will now be the consolation of your father. Elizabeth, my love, you must supply my place to my younger children. Alas! I regret that I am taken from you; and, happy and beloved as I have been, is it not hard to quit you all? But these are not thoughts befitting me; I will endeavour to resign myself cheerfully to death and will indulge a hope of meeting you in another world.’
当我十七岁时，我的父母决定我应该成为因戈尔施塔特大学的一名学生。迄今为止，我一直在日内瓦的学校上学，但我的父亲认为，为了完成学业，我有必要熟悉祖国以外的其他习俗。因此，我的出发日期被提前定下来，但在决定的那一天到来之前，我一生中的第一个不幸发生了——这可以说是我未来痛苦的预兆。伊丽莎白染上了猩红热。她的病很重，处于最大的危险之中。在她生病期间，有人提出了许多论点，以说服我母亲不要照顾她。起初她屈服于我们的恳求，但当她听说她最爱的人的生命受到威胁时，她再也无法控制自己的焦虑。她照顾病床；她的警惕性战胜了瘟疫的恶性——伊丽莎白得救了，但这种轻率的后果对她的保护者来说却是致命的。第三天，我母亲病了。她的发烧伴随着最令人震惊的症状，而她的医护人员的表情预示着最糟糕的情况。在她临终前，这位最好的女性的坚韧和善良并没有抛弃她。她牵起伊丽莎白和我的手。 “我的孩子们，”她说，“我对未来幸福最坚定的希望寄托在你们结合的前景上。这种期望现在将成为你父亲的安慰。伊丽莎白，我的爱人，你必须把我的位置让给我年幼的孩子们。唉!我很遗憾我被从你身边带走；而且，尽管我一直很快乐，也很受人爱戴，但离开你们大家不是很难吗？ 但这些想法不适合我；我会尽力高高兴兴地听天由命，并寄希望于在另一个世界遇见你。’

She died calmly, and her countenance expressed affection even in death. I need not describe the feelings of those whose dearest ties are rent by that most irreparable evil, the void that presents itself to the soul, and the despair that is exhibited on the countenance. It is so long before the mind can persuade itself that she whom we saw every day and whose very existence appeared a part of our own can have departed forever—that the brightness of a beloved eye can have been extinguished and the sound of a voice so familiar and dear to the ear can be hushed, never more to be heard. These are the reflections of the first days; but when the lapse of time proves the reality of the evil, then the actual bitterness of grief commences. Yet from whom has not that rude hand rent away some dear connection? And why should I describe a sorrow which all have felt, and must feel? The time at length arrives when grief is rather an indulgence than a necessity; and the smile that plays upon the lips, although it may be deemed a sacrilege, is not banished. My mother was dead, but we had still duties which we ought to perform; we must continue our course with the rest and learn to think ourselves fortunate whilst one remains whom the spoiler has not seized. My departure for Ingolstadt, which had been deferred by these events, was now again determined upon. I obtained from my father a respite of some weeks. It appeared to me sacrilege so soon to leave the repose, akin to death, of the house of mourning and to rush into the thick of life. I was new to sorrow, but it did not the less alarm me. I was unwilling to quit the sight of those that remained to me, and above all, I desired to see my sweet Elizabeth in some degree consoled.
她死得很平静，死的时候脸上也流露出慈爱。我不需要描述那些最亲密的纽带被最无法挽回的邪恶撕裂的人的感受，他们的灵魂呈现出空虚，脸上流露出绝望。过了很长时间，心灵才说服自己相信我们每天见到的她，她的存在本身就是我们自己的一部分，她可能已经永远离开了——心爱的眼睛的光芒可能已经消失，声音也可能已经消失了。耳熟能详的声音可以安静下来，再也听不到。这些是第一天的反思；但当时间的流逝证明了邪恶的真实存在时，悲伤的真正痛苦就开始了。然而，那只粗鲁的手没有从谁手中夺走一些亲密的联系呢？我为什么要描述一种所有人都曾感受过、也必须感受到的悲伤？悲伤不再是一种必然，而是一种放纵的时刻终于到来了。嘴唇上的微笑虽然可能被认为是一种亵渎，但并没有消失。我的母亲去世了，但我们还有应该履行的职责；我们必须与其他人一起继续我们的路线，并学会在还有人没有被破坏者抓住的时候认为自己是幸运的。我因这些事件而推迟前往因戈尔施塔特的行程，现在又决定了。我从父亲那里获得了几周的喘息时间。在我看来，这么快就离开了哀悼之家的安宁，就像死亡一样，冲进了生活的最深处，这似乎是一种亵渎。我对悲伤还很陌生，但这并没有减轻我的惊慌。我不愿意离开那些留在我身边的人，最重要的是，我希望看到我可爱的伊丽莎白得到某种程度的安慰。

She indeed veiled her grief and strove to act the comforter to us all. She looked steadily on life and assumed its duties with courage and zeal. She devoted herself to those whom she had been taught to call her uncle and cousins. Never was she so enchanting as at this time, when she recalled the sunshine of her smiles and spent them upon us. She forgot even her own regret in her endeavours to make us forget.
她确实掩饰了她的悲伤，并努力充当我们所有人的安慰者。她坚定地看待生活，并以勇气和热情承担起自己的责任。她全身心投入到那些她被教导称她为叔叔和表兄弟的人身上。当她回忆起她灿烂的笑容并把它们洒在我们身上时，她从来没有像现在这样迷人。她努力让我们忘记，甚至忘记了自己的遗憾。

The day of my departure at length arrived. Clerval spent the last evening with us. He had endeavoured to persuade his father to permit him to accompany me and to become my fellow student, but in vain. His father was a narrow-minded trader and saw idleness and ruin in the aspirations and ambition of his son. Henry deeply felt the misfortune of being debarred from a liberal education. He said little, but when he spoke I read in his kindling eye and in his animated glance a restrained but firm resolve not to be chained to the miserable details of commerce.
我出发的日子终于到来了。克莱瓦尔和我们一起度过了最后一个晚上。他曾试图说服他的父亲允许他陪伴我并成为我的同学，但没有成功。他的父亲是一位心胸狭隘的商人，他在儿子的抱负和野心中看到了懒惰和毁灭。亨利深深地感受到了被禁止接受自由教育的不幸。他话不多，但当他说话时，我从他那双炽热的眼睛和他活泼的眼神中读到一种克制但坚定的决心，即不被商业的悲惨细节所束缚。

We sat late. We could not tear ourselves away from each other nor persuade ourselves to say the word ‘Farewell!’ It was said, and we retired under the pretence of seeking repose, each fancying that the other was deceived; but when at morning’s dawn I descended to the carriage which was to convey me away, they were all there—my father again to bless me, Clerval to press my hand once more, my Elizabeth to renew her entreaties that I would write often and to bestow the last feminine attentions on her playmate and friend.
我们坐得很晚。我们无法分开，也无法说服自己说出“再见”这个词！说完，我们就假装要休息，各自退了出去，彼此都以为对方受了欺骗；但我们却都以为对方被欺骗了。但是，当黎明时分，我下楼到要送我走的马车时，他们都在那里——我的父亲再次祝福我，克莱瓦尔再次握着我的手，我的伊丽莎白再次恳求我经常写信，并给我写信。将最后的女性关怀给予她的玩伴和朋友。

I threw myself into the chaise that was to convey me away and indulged in the most melancholy reflections. I, who had ever been surrounded by amiable companions, continually engaged in endeavouring to bestow mutual pleasure—I was now alone. In the university whither I was going I must form my own friends and be my own protector. My life had hitherto been remarkably secluded and domestic, and this had given me invincible repugnance to new countenances. I loved my brothers, Elizabeth, and Clerval; these were ‘old familiar faces,’ but I believed myself totally unfitted for the company of strangers. Such were my reflections as I commenced my journey; but as I proceeded, my spirits and hopes rose. I ardently desired the acquisition of knowledge. I had often, when at home, thought it hard to remain during my youth cooped up in one place and had longed to enter the world and take my station among other human beings. Now my desires were complied with, and it would, indeed, have been folly to repent.
我一头扎进准备送我离开的马车上，陷入了最忧郁的沉思。我，曾经被友善的同伴包围着，不断地努力给予彼此快乐——现在我孤身一人了。在我要去的大学里，我必须结交自己的朋友，成为自己的保护者。迄今为止，我的生活一直是非常与世隔绝的家庭生活，这使我对新面孔产生了无以复加的厌恶。我爱我的兄弟伊丽莎白和克莱瓦尔；这些都是“熟悉的老面孔”，但我相信自己完全不适合与陌生人为伍。这就是我开始旅程时的想法。但当我继续前行时，我的精神和希望也随之升起。我热切地渴望获得知识。当我在家的时候，常常觉得自己年轻时被关在一个地方是很困难的，所以渴望进入这个世界，在其他人中占据一席之地。现在我的愿望得到了满足，如果再悔改，那就太愚蠢了。

I had sufficient leisure for these and many other reflections during my journey to Ingolstadt, which was long and fatiguing. At length the high white steeple of the town met my eyes. I alighted and was conducted to my solitary apartment to spend the evening as I pleased.
在前往因戈尔施塔特的漫长而疲惫的旅程中，我有足够的空闲时间进行这些思考和许多其他思考。最后，小镇高高的白色尖塔映入我的眼帘。我下了车，被带到我单独的公寓，随心所欲地度过一个晚上。

The next morning I delivered my letters of introduction and paid a visit to some of the principal professors. Chance—or rather the evil influence, the Angel of Destruction, which asserted omnipotent sway over me from the moment I turned my reluctant steps from my father’s door—led me first to M. Krempe, professor of natural philosophy. He was an uncouth man, but deeply imbued in the secrets of his science. He asked me several questions concerning my progress in the different branches of science appertaining to natural philosophy. I replied carelessly, and partly in contempt, mentioned the names of my alchemists as the principal authors I had studied. The professor stared. ‘Have you,’ he said, ‘really spent your time in studying such nonsense?’
第二天早上我递交了介绍信并拜访了一些主要教授。机会——或者更确切地说，邪恶的影响力，毁灭天使，从我不情愿地走出父亲家门的那一刻起，它就对我施加了无所不能的影响——首先把我引向了自然哲学教授克伦佩先生。他是一个粗鲁的人，但深深地沉浸在他的科学秘密中。他问了我几个关于我在自然哲学相关科学不同分支方面的进展的问题。我漫不经心地回答，带着几分轻蔑，提到了我的炼金术士的名字，他们是我研究过的主要作者。教授凝视着。 “你真的花了时间研究这些废话吗？”他说。

I replied in the affirmative. ‘Every minute,’ continued M. Krempe with warmth, ‘every instant that you have wasted on those books is utterly and entirely lost. You have burdened your memory with exploded systems and useless names. Good God! In what desert land have you lived, where no one was kind enough to inform you that these fancies which you have so greedily imbibed are a thousand years old and as musty as they are ancient? I little expected, in this enlightened and scientific age, to find a disciple of Albertus Magnus and Paracelsus. My dear sir, you must begin your studies entirely anew.’
我的回答是肯定的。 “每一分钟，”克伦佩先生热情地继续说道，“你在这些书上浪费的每一刻都彻底消失了。”爆炸的系统和无用的名字给你的记忆带来了负担。天哪！你生活在什么样的沙漠土地上，没有人好心地告诉你，你如此贪婪地吸收的这些幻想已经有一千多年的历史了，而且像它们古老一样发霉了？我没想到，在这个开明的科学时代，会找到阿尔伯特·马格努斯和帕拉塞尔苏斯的弟子。我亲爱的先生，您必须重新开始学习。

So saying, he stepped aside and wrote down a list of several books treating of natural philosophy which he desired me to procure, and dismissed me after mentioning that in the beginning of the following week he intended to commence a course of lectures upon natural philosophy in its general relations, and that M. Waldman, a fellow professor, would lecture upon chemistry the alternate days that he omitted.
说着，他走到一边，写下了一份清单，列出了几本他希望我购买的有关自然哲学的书籍，并在提到下周初他打算在它的一般关系，而且沃尔德曼先生，一位教授，每隔几天他就会讲化学课。

I returned home not disappointed, for I have said that I had long considered those authors useless whom the professor reprobated; but I returned not at all the more inclined to recur to these studies in any shape. M. Krempe was a little squat man with a gruff voice and a repulsive countenance; the teacher, therefore, did not prepossess me in favour of his pursuits. In rather a too philosophical and connected a strain, perhaps, I have given an account of the conclusions I had come to concerning them in my early years. As a child I had not been content with the results promised by the modern professors of natural science. With a confusion of ideas only to be accounted for by my extreme youth and my want of a guide on such matters, I had retrod the steps of knowledge along the paths of time and exchanged the discoveries of recent inquirers for the dreams of forgotten alchemists. Besides, I had a contempt for the uses of modern natural philosophy. It was very different when the masters of the science sought immortality and power; such views, although futile, were grand; but now the scene was changed. The ambition of the inquirer seemed to limit itself to the annihilation of those visions on which my interest in science was chiefly founded. I was required to exchange chimeras of boundless grandeur for realities of little worth.
我回到家并没有失望，因为我说过，我一直认为那些被教授斥责的作家毫无用处。但我回来后并没有更倾向于以任何形式重复这些研究。克伦佩先生身材矮小，身材矮胖，声音粗哑，面容令人厌恶。因此，老师并没有让我赞成他的追求。也许，我以一种过于哲学化和相关的张力，阐述了我早年就这些问题得出的结论。当我还是个孩子的时候，我对现代自然科学教授所承诺的结果并不满意。由于我年纪轻轻，思想混乱，而且我在这些问题上缺乏指导，我沿着时间的道路回顾了知识的脚步，用最近探索者的发现换取了被遗忘的炼金术士的梦想。此外，我对现代自然哲学的运用很蔑视。当科学大师寻求永生和力量时，情况就大不相同了。这些观点虽然徒劳，但却是伟大的。但现在场景变了。探究者的野心似乎仅限于消灭我对科学的兴趣主要建立在其上的那些愿景。我被要求用毫无价值的现实来交换无限宏伟的幻想。

Such were my reflections during the first two or three days of my residence at Ingolstadt, which were chiefly spent in becoming acquainted with the localities and the principal residents in my new abode. But as the ensuing week commenced, I thought of the information which M. Krempe had given me concerning the lectures. And although I could not consent to go and hear that little conceited fellow deliver sentences out of a pulpit, I recollected what he had said of M. Waldman, whom I had never seen, as he had hitherto been out of town.
这是我在因戈尔施塔特居住的头两三天的思考，主要是为了熟悉新住所的地方和主要居民。但随着接下来的一周开始，我想起了克伦佩先生给我的有关讲座的信息。虽然我不能同意去听那个自负的小家伙在讲坛上宣讲，但我记得他对沃尔德曼先生说过的话，我从未见过他，因为他迄今为止一直在外地。

Partly from curiosity and partly from idleness, I went into the lecturing room, which M. Waldman entered shortly after. This professor was very unlike his colleague. He appeared about fifty years of age, but with an aspect expressive of the greatest benevolence; a few grey hairs covered his temples, but those at the back of his head were nearly black. His person was short but remarkably erect and his voice the sweetest I had ever heard. He began his lecture by a recapitulation of the history of chemistry and the various improvements made by different men of learning, pronouncing with fervour the names of the most distinguished discoverers. He then took a cursory view of the present state of the science and explained many of its elementary terms. After having made a few preparatory experiments, he concluded with a panegyric upon modern chemistry, the terms of which I shall never forget: ‘The ancient teachers of this science,’ said he, ‘promised impossibilities and performed nothing. The modern masters promise very little; they know that metals cannot be transmuted and that the elixir of life is a chimera but these philosophers, whose hands seem only made to dabble in dirt, and their eyes to pore over the microscope or crucible, have indeed performed miracles. They penetrate into the recesses of nature and show how she works in her hiding-places. They ascend into the heavens; they have discovered how the blood circulates, and the nature of the air we breathe. They have acquired new and almost unlimited powers; they can command the thunders of heaven, mimic the earthquake, and even mock the invisible world with its own shadows.’
部分出于好奇，部分出于闲置，我走进了讲堂，不久之后瓦尔德曼先生也进入了教室。这位教授与他的同事很不一样。他看起来大约五十岁，但脸上却流露出极大的仁慈。他的太阳穴上覆盖着几根灰白的头发，但后脑勺的头发却几乎是黑色的。他身材矮小，但非常挺拔，他的声音是我听过的最甜美的。他以重述化学史和不同学者所做的各种改进开始了他的演讲，并热情地念出了最杰出的发现者的名字。然后，他粗略地了解了科学的现状，并解释了许多基本术语。在做了一些准备性实验之后，他对现代化学进行了一番颂扬，其中的术语我永远不会忘记：“这门科学的古代老师，”他说，“承诺了不可能的事情，却什么也没做。”现代大师的承诺很少；他们知道金属无法改变，长生不老药只是一种幻想，但这些哲学家，他们的双手似乎只能涉足泥土，而他们的眼睛却只能仔细观察显微镜或坩埚，他们确实创造了奇迹。它们深入大自然的深处，展示她如何在隐藏的地方工作。他们升入诸天；他们发现了血液如何循环以及我们呼吸的空气的性质。他们获得了新的、几乎无限的权力；他们可以指挥天上的雷霆，模仿地震，甚至用自己的影子嘲笑无形的世界。

Such were the professor’s words—rather let me say such the words of the fate—enounced to destroy me. As he went on I felt as if my soul were grappling with a palpable enemy; one by one the various keys were touched which formed the mechanism of my being; chord after chord was sounded, and soon my mind was filled with one thought, one conception, one purpose. So much has been done, exclaimed the soul of Frankenstein—more, far more, will I achieve; treading in the steps already marked, I will pioneer a new way, explore unknown powers, and unfold to the world the deepest mysteries of creation.
这就是教授的话——更确切地说，是命运的话——宣告要毁灭我。当他继续说下去时，我感觉自己的灵魂正在与一个明显的敌人搏斗。各种按键被一一触动，形成了我存在的机制；一个又一个的和弦响起，很快我的脑海里就充满了一个想法，一个构想，一个目的。弗兰肯斯坦的灵魂感叹道，我们已经做了很多事情——我还会取得更多、更多的成就；踏着已经标记的脚步，我将开拓一条新的道路，探索未知的力量，向世界揭开造物最深的奥秘。

I closed not my eyes that night. My internal being was in a state of insurrection and turmoil; I felt that order would thence arise, but I had no power to produce it. By degrees, after the morning’s dawn, sleep came. I awoke, and my yesternight’s thoughts were as a dream. There only remained a resolution to return to my ancient studies and to devote myself to a science for which I believed myself to possess a natural talent. On the same day I paid M. Waldman a visit. His manners in private were even more mild and attractive than in public, for there was a certain dignity in his mien during his lecture which in his own house was replaced by the greatest affability and kindness. I gave him pretty nearly the same account of my former pursuits as I had given to his fellow professor. He heard with attention the little narration concerning my studies and smiled at the names of Cornelius Agrippa and Paracelsus, but without the contempt that M. Krempe had exhibited. He said that ‘These were men to whose indefatigable zeal modern philosophers were indebted for most of the foundations of their knowledge. They had left to us, as an easier task, to give new names and arrange in connected classifications the facts which they in a great degree had been the instruments of bringing to light. The labours of men of genius, however erroneously directed, scarcely ever fail in ultimately turning to the solid advantage of mankind.’ I listened to his statement, which was delivered without any presumption or affectation, and then added that his lecture had removed my prejudices against modern chemists; I expressed myself in measured terms, with the modesty and deference due from a youth to his instructor, without letting escape (inexperience in life would have made me ashamed) any of the enthusiasm which stimulated my intended labours. I requested his advice concerning the books I ought to procure.
那天晚上我没有闭上眼睛。我的内心处于一种叛逆和混乱的状态；我觉得秩序将会出现，但我没有能力产生它。黎明之后，渐渐地，睡眠来临了。我醒了，昨天的想法就像一场梦。我只剩下一个决心，那就是回到我古老的研究，并致力于一门我相信自己拥有天赋的科学。同一天，我拜访了沃尔德曼先生。他私下里的举止甚至比公开场合更加温和和有吸引力，因为他在演讲时的举止有一定的尊严，而在他自己的家里，这种举止却被最大的和蔼可亲和友善所取代。我向他讲述了我以前的追求，几乎与我向他的教授同事讲述的一样。他专注地听着关于我的研究的小叙述，对科尼利厄斯·阿格里帕和帕拉塞尔苏斯的名字微笑，但没有克伦佩先生表现出的蔑视。他说：“现代哲学家的大部分知识基础都归功于这些人不知疲倦的热情。他们留给我们的任务是一项更容易的任务，即赋予新的名称，并将事实进行相关的分类，而这些事实在很大程度上是他们揭露的工具。天才们的劳动，无论方向多么错误，最终都不会失败，为人类带来坚实的利益。’我听了他的发言，他的发言没有任何假设或矫揉造作，然后补充说，他的演讲消除了我对现代化学家的偏见；我以年轻人对导师应有的谦虚和尊敬的态度，谨慎地表达了自己的意思，但没有放过任何激发我预期工作的热情（生活经验不足会让我感到羞愧）。我向他请教关于我应该购买的书籍的建议。

‘I am happy,’ said M. Waldman, ‘to have gained a disciple; and if your application equals your ability, I have no doubt of your success. Chemistry is that branch of natural philosophy in which the greatest improvements have been and may be made; it is on that account that I have made it my peculiar study; but at the same time, I have not neglected the other branches of science. A man would make but a very sorry chemist if he attended to that department of human knowledge alone. If your wish is to become really a man of science and not merely a petty experimentalist, I should advise you to apply to every branch of natural philosophy, including mathematics.’ He then took me into his laboratory and explained to me the uses of his various machines, instructing me as to what I ought to procure and promising me the use of his own when I should have advanced far enough in the science not to derange their mechanism. He also gave me the list of books which I had requested, and I took my leave.
“我很高兴，”沃尔德曼先生说，“获得了一个弟子；如果你的申请与你的能力相匹配，我毫不怀疑你的成功。化学是自然哲学的一个分支，其中已经并可能取得最大的进步。正因为如此，我才将它作为我的特殊研究。但与此同时，我并没有忽视其他科学分支。如果一个人只关注人类知识的那个部门，他就会成为一个非常遗憾的化学家。如果你的愿望是成为一名真正的科学家，而不仅仅是一名小实验家，我建议你应用自然哲学的每一个分支，包括数学。”然后他带我进入他的实验室，并向我解释了他的方法的用途。各种机器，指导我应该购买什么，并承诺当我在科学上已经足够先进而不会扰乱它们的机制时，我可以使用他自己的机器。他还给了我所需的书籍清单，然后我就告辞了。

Thus ended a day memorable to me; it decided my future destiny.
令我难忘的一天就这样结束了；它决定了我未来的命运。

Chapter 4
第4章

From this day natural philosophy, and particularly chemistry, in the most comprehensive sense of the term, became nearly my sole occupation. I read with ardour those works, so full of genius and discrimination, which modern inquirers have written on these subjects. I attended the lectures and cultivated the acquaintance of the men of science of the university, and I found even in M. Krempe a great deal of sound sense and real information, combined, it is true, with a repulsive physiognomy and manners, but not on that account the less valuable. In M. Waldman I found a true friend. His gentleness was never tinged by dogmatism, and his instructions were given with an air of frankness and good nature that banished every idea of pedantry. In a thousand ways he smoothed for me the path of knowledge and made the most abstruse inquiries clear and facile to my apprehension. My application was at first fluctuating and uncertain; it gained strength as I proceeded and soon became so ardent and eager that the stars often disappeared in the light of morning whilst I was yet engaged in my laboratory.
从今天起，自然哲学，尤其是最全面意义上的化学，几乎成为我唯一的职业。我满怀热情地阅读了现代探索者关于这些主题所写的那些充满天才和洞察力的作品。我参加了讲座，并结识了大学里的科学家，我什至在克伦佩先生身上发现了大量的声音感觉和真实的信息，确实，与令人厌恶的相貌和举止结合在一起，但不是因此价值较低。在沃尔德曼先生身上，我找到了一位真正的朋友。他的温和从来没有教条主义的色彩，他的指示是带着坦率和善良的神情，消除了一切迂腐的想法。他以一千种方式为我铺平了知识之路，使最深奥的探究变得清晰易懂。我的申请一开始是波动且不确定的；当我继续前进时，它变得越来越强大，很快就变得如此热情和渴望，以至于当我还在实验室工作时，星星常常消失在晨光中。

As I applied so closely, it may be easily conceived that my progress was rapid. My ardour was indeed the astonishment of the students, and my proficiency that of the masters. Professor Krempe often asked me, with a sly smile, how Cornelius Agrippa went on, whilst M. Waldman expressed the most heartfelt exultation in my progress. Two years passed in this manner, during which I paid no visit to Geneva, but was engaged, heart and soul, in the pursuit of some discoveries which I hoped to make. None but those who have experienced them can conceive of the enticements of science. In other studies you go as far as others have gone before you, and there is nothing more to know; but in a scientific pursuit there is continual food for discovery and wonder. A mind of moderate capacity which closely pursues one study must infallibly arrive at great proficiency in that study; and I, who continually sought the attainment of one object of pursuit and was solely wrapped up in this, improved so rapidly that at the end of two years I made some discoveries in the improvement of some chemical instruments, which procured me great esteem and admiration at the university. When I had arrived at this point and had become as well acquainted with the theory and practice of natural philosophy as depended on the lessons of any of the professors at Ingolstadt, my residence there being no longer conducive to my improvements, I thought of returning to my friends and my native town, when an incident happened that protracted my stay.
由于我如此认真地申请，所以很容易想象我的进步是很快的。我的热情确实让学生们惊叹，我的熟练程度确实让老师们惊叹。克伦佩教授经常带着狡猾的微笑问我科尼利厄斯·阿格里帕进展得怎么样，而瓦尔德曼先生则对我的进步表示由衷的欣喜。两年就这样过去了，期间我没有去日内瓦，而是全心全意地追求我希望取得的一些发现。除了那些经历过的人之外，没有人能够想象科学的诱惑。在其他的研究中，你就已经达到了别人在你之前已经达到的程度，并且没有什么可知道的了；但在科学追求中，不断有发现和奇迹的源泉。一个中等能力的人，如果认真钻研一门学科，一定会在这门学科上达到非常熟练的程度。而我，不断地追求一个目标，一心一意地追求这一目标，进步如此之快，两年后，我在一些化学仪器的改进上有了一些发现，这让我非常尊重和钦佩。在大学里。当我到达这一点，并且已经像因戈尔施塔特任何一位教授的课程一样熟悉自然哲学的理论和实践时，我在那里的住所不再有利于我的进步，我想回到我的朋友和我的家乡发生了一起事件，导致我的逗留时间延长了。

One of the phenomena which had peculiarly attracted my attention was the structure of the human frame, and, indeed, any animal endued with life. Whence, I often asked myself, did the principle of life proceed? It was a bold question, and one which has ever been considered as a mystery; yet with how many things are we upon the brink of becoming acquainted, if cowardice or carelessness did not restrain our inquiries. I revolved these circumstances in my mind and determined thenceforth to apply myself more particularly to those branches of natural philosophy which relate to physiology. Unless I had been animated by an almost supernatural enthusiasm, my application to this study would have been irksome and almost intolerable. To examine the causes of life, we must first have recourse to death. I became acquainted with the science of anatomy, but this was not sufficient; I must also observe the natural decay and corruption of the human body. In my education my father had taken the greatest precautions that my mind should be impressed with no supernatural horrors. I do not ever remember to have trembled at a tale of superstition or to have feared the apparition of a spirit. Darkness had no effect upon my fancy, and a churchyard was to me merely the receptacle of bodies deprived of life, which, from being the seat of beauty and strength, had become food for the worm. Now I was led to examine the cause and progress of this decay and forced to spend days and nights in vaults and charnel-houses. My attention was fixed upon every object the most insupportable to the delicacy of the human feelings. I saw how the fine form of man was degraded and wasted; I beheld the corruption of death succeed to the blooming cheek of life; I saw how the worm inherited the wonders of the eye and brain. I paused, examining and analysing all the minutiae of causation, as exemplified in the change from life to death, and death to life, until from the midst of this darkness a sudden light broke in upon me—a light so brilliant and wondrous, yet so simple, that while I became dizzy with the immensity of the prospect which it illustrated, I was surprised that among so many men of genius who had directed their inquiries towards the same science, that I alone should be reserved to discover so astonishing a secret.
特别引起我注意的现象之一是人体的结构，事实上，任何动物都具有生命。我时常问自己，生命的法则从何而来？这是一个大胆的问题，也一直被认为是一个谜。然而，如果怯懦或粗心没有限制我们的探究，我们还有多少事情即将熟悉。我在脑海中思考了这些情况，并决定从那时起我将更加特别地致力于那些与生理​​学相关的自然哲学分支。除非我被近乎超自然的热情所激励，否则我对这项研究的申请将会令人厌烦，几乎无法忍受。要考察生命的原因，必须首先求助于死亡。我开始熟悉解剖学，但这还不够。我还必须观察人体的自然腐烂和腐败。在我的教育中，父亲采取了最大的预防措施，不让我的脑海中留下任何超自然的恐怖。我不记得曾因迷信故事而颤抖过，或害怕过幽灵的出现。黑暗对我的幻想没有影响，教堂墓地对我来说只是被剥夺生命的尸体的容器，它们不再是美丽和力量的所在地，而是成为蠕虫的食物。现在我被引导去检查这种腐烂的原因和进展，并被迫在金库和停尸房里度过日日夜夜。我的注意力集中在每一个最难以忍受人类情感脆弱的物体上。 我看到人类的美好形态是如何被退化和浪费的；我看到死亡的腐化接替了生命绽放的脸颊；我看到了蠕虫如何继承了眼睛和大脑的奇迹。我停下来，检查和分析因果关系的所有细枝末节，例如从生到死，从死到生的变化，直到在这黑暗之中，一道光突然照到了我身上——那光是如此灿烂和奇妙，但如此简单，以至于当我对它所描绘的广阔前景感到头晕目眩时，我感到惊讶的是，在这么多将他们的研究引向同一门科学的天才中，只有我一个人竟然有能力发现如此惊人的秘密。

Remember, I am not recording the vision of a madman. The sun does not more certainly shine in the heavens than that which I now affirm is true. Some miracle might have produced it, yet the stages of the discovery were distinct and probable. After days and nights of incredible labour and fatigue, I succeeded in discovering the cause of generation and life; nay, more, I became myself capable of bestowing animation upon lifeless matter.
请记住，我并不是在记录一个疯子的幻象。太阳在天空中的照耀并不比我现在所确认的更确定。它可能是某种奇迹产生的，但发现的阶段是明确且可能的。经过日日夜夜的令人难以置信的劳动和疲劳，我成功地找到了生成和生命的原因；不仅如此，我还变得能够赋予无生命的物质以活力。

The astonishment which I had at first experienced on this discovery soon gave place to delight and rapture. After so much time spent in painful labour, to arrive at once at the summit of my desires was the most gratifying consummation of my toils. But this discovery was so great and overwhelming that all the steps by which I had been progressively led to it were obliterated, and I beheld only the result. What had been the study and desire of the wisest men since the creation of the world was now within my grasp. Not that, like a magic scene, it all opened upon me at once: the information I had obtained was of a nature rather to direct my endeavours so soon as I should point them towards the object of my search than to exhibit that object already accomplished. I was like the Arabian who had been buried with the dead and found a passage to life, aided only by one glimmering and seemingly ineffectual light.
我最初对这一发现感到惊讶，很快就变成了喜悦和狂喜。在经历了这么多时间的痛苦劳动之后，立即达到我的愿望的顶峰是我辛劳中最令人欣慰的完成。但这个发现是如此伟大和压倒性，以至于我逐步引导到它的所有步骤都被抹去了，我只看到了结果。自创世以来最智者的研究和愿望现在都在我的掌握之中。并不是说，就像一个神奇的场景，一切都立即向我展开：我所获得的信息本质上是为了指导我的努力，以便我将它们指向我的搜索对象，而不是展示已经完成的目标。我就像一个与死者一起埋葬的阿拉伯人，只靠一束微弱的、看似无效的光的帮助，找到了一条通往生命的通道。

I see by your eagerness and the wonder and hope which your eyes express, my friend, that you expect to be informed of the secret with which I am acquainted; that cannot be; listen patiently until the end of my story, and you will easily perceive why I am reserved upon that subject. I will not lead you on, unguarded and ardent as I then was, to your destruction and infallible misery. Learn from me, if not by my precepts, at least by my example, how dangerous is the acquirement of knowledge and how much happier that man is who believes his native town to be the world, than he who aspires to become greater than his nature will allow.
我的朋友，从你的热切以及你眼中所流露出的惊奇和希望中，我看出你期望被告知我所知道的秘密。那不可能；耐心地听完我的故事，你就会很容易理解为什么我在这个问题上持保留态度。我不会像当时那样毫无防备、热心地带领你们走向毁灭和绝对的痛苦。向我学习，即使不是通过我的戒律，至少通过我的榜样，获取知识是多么危险，相信自己的家乡就是世界的人比那些渴望变得比他的本性更伟大的人要快乐得多会允许。

When I found so astonishing a power placed within my hands, I hesitated a long time concerning the manner in which I should employ it. Although I possessed the capacity of bestowing animation, yet to prepare a frame for the reception of it, with all its intricacies of fibres, muscles, and veins, still remained a work of inconceivable difficulty and labour. I doubted at first whether I should attempt the creation of a being like myself, or one of simpler organization; but my imagination was too much exalted by my first success to permit me to doubt of my ability to give life to an animal as complete and wonderful as man. The materials at present within my command hardly appeared adequate to so arduous an undertaking, but I doubted not that I should ultimately succeed. I prepared myself for a multitude of reverses; my operations might be incessantly baffled, and at last my work be imperfect, yet when I considered the improvement which every day takes place in science and mechanics, I was encouraged to hope my present attempts would at least lay the foundations of future success. Nor could I consider the magnitude and complexity of my plan as any argument of its impracticability. It was with these feelings that I began the creation of a human being. As the minuteness of the parts formed a great hindrance to my speed, I resolved, contrary to my first intention, to make the being of a gigantic stature, that is to say, about eight feet in height, and proportionably large. After having formed this determination and having spent some months in successfully collecting and arranging my materials, I began.
当我发现自己手中掌握着如此惊人的力量时，我犹豫了很长一段时间，不知道该如何运用它。尽管我拥有赋予动画的能力，但准备一个接受它的框架，以及它复杂的纤维、肌肉和静脉，仍然是一项难以想象的困难和劳动。一开始我怀疑是否应该尝试创造一个像我一样的存在，或者一个更简单的组织；但我的想象力因我的第一次成功而变得过于丰富，以至于我无法怀疑自己是否有能力赋予动物像人类一样完整和美妙的生命。目前我掌握的材料似乎不足以完成如此​​艰巨的任务，但我毫不怀疑我最终会成功。我做好了面对许多挫折的准备；我的操作可能会不断地受挫，最终我的工作也不完美，但当我想到科学和机械领域每天都在进步时，我受到鼓舞，希望我目前的尝试至少能为未来的成功奠定基础。我也不能将我的计划的规模和复杂性视为其不切实际的理由。正是带着这些感觉，我开始创造一个人。由于这些部件的微小对我的速度构成了很大的障碍，所以与我的最初意图相反，我决定将这个物体做成一个巨大的身材，也就是说，大约八英尺高，并且比例很大。在下了这个决心并花了几个月的时间成功收集和整理我的材料后，我开始了。

No one can conceive the variety of feelings which bore me onwards, like a hurricane, in the first enthusiasm of success. Life and death appeared to me ideal bounds, which I should first break through, and pour a torrent of light into our dark world. A new species would bless me as its creator and source; many happy and excellent natures would owe their being to me. No father could claim the gratitude of his child so completely as I should deserve theirs. Pursuing these reflections, I thought that if I could bestow animation upon lifeless matter, I might in process of time (although I now found it impossible) renew life where death had apparently devoted the body to corruption.
没有人能够想象，在第一次成功的热情中，我所感受到的各种感受，就像飓风一样。生与死对我来说似乎是理想的界限，我应该首先突破它，为我们黑暗的世界注入一股光明。一个新物种将祝福我作为它的创造者和源头；许多快乐而优秀的人的存在都归功于我。没有哪个父亲能够像我一样完全地得到孩子的感激。追寻这些思考，我想，如果我能够赋予无生命的物质以活力，我可能会在时间的过程中（尽管我现在发现这是不可能的）在死亡显然使身体腐烂的地方恢复生命。

These thoughts supported my spirits, while I pursued my undertaking with unremitting ardour. My cheek had grown pale with study, and my person had become emaciated with confinement. Sometimes, on the very brink of certainty, I failed; yet still I clung to the hope which the next day or the next hour might realize. One secret which I alone possessed was the hope to which I had dedicated myself; and the moon gazed on my midnight labours, while, with unrelaxed and breathless eagerness, I pursued nature to her hiding-places. Who shall conceive the horrors of my secret toil as I dabbled among the unhallowed damps of the grave or tortured the living animal to animate the lifeless clay? My limbs now tremble, and my eyes swim with the remembrance; but then a resistless and almost frantic impulse urged me forward; I seemed to have lost all soul or sensation but for this one pursuit. It was indeed but a passing trance, that only made me feel with renewed acuteness so soon as, the unnatural stimulus ceasing to operate, I had returned to my old habits. I collected bones from charnel-houses and disturbed, with profane fingers, the tremendous secrets of the human frame. In a solitary chamber, or rather cell, at the top of the house, and separated from all the other apartments by a gallery and staircase, I kept my workshop of filthy creation; my eyeballs were starting from their sockets in attending to the details of my employment. The dissecting room and the slaughter-house furnished many of my materials; and often did my human nature turn with loathing from my occupation, whilst, still urged on by an eagerness which perpetually increased, I brought my work near to a conclusion.
这些想法支撑着我的精神，让我以不懈的热情去追求自己的事业。我的脸因学习而变得苍白，我的人因禁闭而变得憔悴。有时，就在确定性的边缘，我却失败了；但我仍然抱有第二天或下一小时可能实现的希望。我独自拥有的一个秘密就是我为之献身的希望。月亮凝视着我午夜的劳作，而我则以不放松、气喘吁吁的渴望，追寻着大自然的藏身之处。当我在坟墓里肮脏的湿气中涉足，或者折磨活生生的动物以使无生命的泥土复活时，谁能想象我秘密辛劳的恐怖？我的四肢现在在颤抖，我的眼睛因回忆而游动；但随后一种无法抗拒的、近乎疯狂的冲动催促着我向前走。除了这一追求，我似乎失去了所有的灵魂和感觉。这确实只是短暂的恍惚，只有当不自然的刺激停止发挥作用，我又恢复了原来的习惯时，才让我感觉到新的敏锐。我从停尸房收集骨头，用亵渎的手指扰乱人体的巨大秘密。在房子顶部的一个单独的房间，或者更确切地说是牢房里，通过画廊和楼梯与所有其他公寓隔开，我保存了我的肮脏创作的工作室；我的眼球都从眼窝里跳出来，关注着我工作的细节。解剖室和屠宰场提供了我的许多材料；我的人性常常因对我的职业感到厌恶而转变，同时，在不断增长的渴望的推动下，我使我的工作接近结束。

The summer months passed while I was thus engaged, heart and soul, in one pursuit. It was a most beautiful season; never did the fields bestow a more plentiful harvest or the vines yield a more luxuriant vintage, but my eyes were insensible to the charms of nature. And the same feelings which made me neglect the scenes around me caused me also to forget those friends who were so many miles absent, and whom I had not seen for so long a time. I knew my silence disquieted them, and I well remembered the words of my father: ‘I know that while you are pleased with yourself you will think of us with affection, and we shall hear regularly from you. You must pardon me if I regard any interruption in your correspondence as a proof that your other duties are equally neglected.’
暑假的几个月过去了，我就这样全身心地投入到一项追求中。那是一个最美的季节；田野从来没有如此丰收，葡萄树从来没有如此丰沛，但我的眼睛却对大自然的魅力麻木不仁。同样的感觉让我忽视了周围的景色，也让我忘记了那些远隔千里、许久未见的朋友。我知道我的沉默让他们感到不安，我清楚地记得父亲的话：“我知道，当你对自己感到满意时，你会充满感情地想到我们，我们会定期收到你的消息。”如果我认为你的通信中的任何中断都证明你的其他职责同样被忽视，你必须原谅我。

I knew well therefore what would be my father’s feelings, but I could not tear my thoughts from my employment, loathsome in itself, but which had taken an irresistible hold of my imagination. I wished, as it were, to procrastinate all that related to my feelings of affection until the great object, which swallowed up every habit of my nature, should be completed.
因此，我很清楚父亲的感受是什么，但我无法将自己的想法从我的工作中抽离出来，它本身令人厌​​恶，但却不可抗拒地占据了我的想象力。可以说，我希望推迟所有与我的感情有关的事情，直到完成这个伟大的目标，这个目标吞噬了我本性的每一个习惯。

I then thought that my father would be unjust if he ascribed my neglect to vice or faultiness on my part, but I am now convinced that he was justified in conceiving that I should not be altogether free from blame. A human being in perfection ought always to preserve a calm and peaceful mind and never to allow passion or a transitory desire to disturb his tranquillity. I do not think that the pursuit of knowledge is an exception to this rule. If the study to which you apply yourself has a tendency to weaken your affections and to destroy your taste for those simple pleasures in which no alloy can possibly mix, then that study is certainly unlawful, that is to say, not befitting the human mind. If this rule were always observed; if no man allowed any pursuit whatsoever to interfere with the tranquillity of his domestic affections, Greece had not been enslaved, Caesar would have spared his country, America would have been discovered more gradually, and the empires of Mexico and Peru had not been destroyed.
当时我想，如果我的父亲将我的疏忽归咎于我的恶习或过错，那他就是不公正的，但现在我确信，他认为我不应该完全免受责备是有道理的。一个完美的人应该始终保持一颗平静祥和的心，决不让激情或短暂的欲望扰乱他的平静。我不认为对知识的追求是这条规则的例外。如果你自己从事的研究有削弱你的感情并破坏你对那些不可能混合的简单快乐的品味的倾向，那么这种研究肯定是非法的，也就是说，不适合人类的思想。如果始终遵守这条规则；如果没有人允许任何追求干扰他家庭感情的平静，希腊就不会被奴役，凯撒就会饶恕他的国家，美洲就会逐渐被发现，墨西哥和秘鲁帝国就不会被摧毁。

But I forget that I am moralizing in the most interesting part of my tale, and your looks remind me to proceed. My father made no reproach in his letters and only took notice of my science by inquiring into my occupations more particularly than before. Winter, spring, and summer passed away during my labours; but I did not watch the blossom or the expanding leaves—sights which before always yielded me supreme delight—so deeply was I engrossed in my occupation. The leaves of that year had withered before my work drew near to a close, and now every day showed me more plainly how well I had succeeded. But my enthusiasm was checked by my anxiety, and I appeared rather like one doomed by slavery to toil in the mines, or any other unwholesome trade than an artist occupied by his favourite employment. Every night I was oppressed by a slow fever, and I became nervous to a most painful degree; the fall of a leaf startled me, and I shunned my fellow creatures as if I had been guilty of a crime. Sometimes I grew alarmed at the wreck I perceived that I had become; the energy of my purpose alone sustained me: my labours would soon end, and I believed that exercise and amusement would then drive away incipient disease; and I promised myself both of these when my creation should be complete.
但我忘记了我在故事中最有趣的部分中进行说教，而你的表情提醒我继续前进。我父亲在信中并没有责备我，只是通过比以前更具体地询问我的职业来注意到我的科学。冬天、春天、夏天都在我的劳动中过去了；但我并没有如此全神贯注于我的工作，而是观看花朵或展开的叶子——以前总是给我带来至高无上的喜悦的景象。那一年的树叶在我的工作接近结束之前就已经枯萎了，现在每一天都更清楚地向我展示我的成功程度。但我的热情被我的焦虑所抑制，我看起来更像是一个注定要在矿井中劳作的奴隶，或者任何其他不健康的行业，而不是一个从事他最喜欢的工作的艺术家。每天晚上，我都被缓慢的发烧所困扰，我变得紧张到最痛苦的程度。一片树叶的落下让我大吃一惊，我避开了我的同类，就好像我犯了罪一样。有时我会因为自己意识到自己已经沦为废墟而感到惊慌。我的目标的能量支撑着我：我的劳动很快就会结束，我相信锻炼和娱乐就会驱走初生的疾病；当我的创作完成时，我向自己保证了这两个目标。

Chapter 5
第5章

It was on a dreary night of November that I beheld the accomplishment of my toils. With an anxiety that almost amounted to agony, I collected the instruments of life around me, that I might infuse a spark of being into the lifeless thing that lay at my feet. It was already one in the morning; the rain pattered dismally against the panes, and my candle was nearly burnt out, when, by the glimmer of the half-extinguished light, I saw the dull yellow eye of the creature open; it breathed hard, and a convulsive motion agitated its limbs.
在十一月的一个沉闷的夜晚，我看到了我的辛劳的成果。怀着一种近乎痛苦的焦虑，我收集了周围的生命工具，以便将存在的火花注入到我脚下毫无生气的东西中。已经是凌晨一点了。雨水凄惨地拍打着窗玻璃，我的蜡烛几乎快要燃尽了，这时，借着半灭的微光，我看到那生物睁开着暗黄色的眼睛。它呼吸困难，四肢痉挛。

How can I describe my emotions at this catastrophe, or how delineate the wretch whom with such infinite pains and care I had endeavoured to form? His limbs were in proportion, and I had selected his features as beautiful. Beautiful! Great God! His yellow skin scarcely covered the work of muscles and arteries beneath; his hair was of a lustrous black, and flowing; his teeth of a pearly whiteness; but these luxuriances only formed a more horrid contrast with his watery eyes, that seemed almost of the same colour as the dun-white sockets in which they were set, his shrivelled complexion and straight black lips.
我该如何描述我在这场灾难中的情绪，或者如何描述我用如此无限的痛苦和关怀努力塑造的不幸者？他的四肢比例匀称，我选他的五官很漂亮。美丽的！大神啊！他的黄色皮肤几乎覆盖不了下面的肌肉和动脉。他的头发乌黑有光泽，飘逸。他的牙齿洁白如珍珠；但这些华丽的光彩只是与他水汪汪的眼睛形成了更可怕的对比，那双眼睛的颜色几乎与它们所在的暗褐色眼窝、干瘪的肤色和笔直的黑色嘴唇形成了更可怕的对比。

The different accidents of life are not so changeable as the feelings of human nature. I had worked hard for nearly two years, for the sole purpose of infusing life into an inanimate body. For this I had deprived myself of rest and health. I had desired it with an ardour that far exceeded moderation; but now that I had finished, the beauty of the dream vanished, and breathless horror and disgust filled my heart. Unable to endure the aspect of the being I had created, I rushed out of the room and continued a long time traversing my bed-chamber, unable to compose my mind to sleep. At length lassitude succeeded to the tumult I had before endured, and I threw myself on the bed in my clothes, endeavouring to seek a few moments of forgetfulness. But it was in vain; I slept, indeed, but I was disturbed by the wildest dreams. I thought I saw Elizabeth, in the bloom of health, walking in the streets of Ingolstadt. Delighted and surprised, I embraced her, but as I imprinted the first kiss on her lips, they became livid with the hue of death; her features appeared to change, and I thought that I held the corpse of my dead mother in my arms; a shroud enveloped her form, and I saw the grave-worms crawling in the folds of the flannel. I started from my sleep with horror; a cold dew covered my forehead, my teeth chattered, and every limb became convulsed; when, by the dim and yellow light of the moon, as it forced its way through the window shutters, I beheld the wretch— the miserable monster whom I had created. He held up the curtain of the bed; and his eyes, if eyes they may be called, were fixed on me. His jaws opened, and he muttered some inarticulate sounds, while a grin wrinkled his cheeks. He might have spoken, but I did not hear; one hand was stretched out, seemingly to detain me, but I escaped and rushed downstairs. I took refuge in the courtyard belonging to the house which I inhabited, where I remained during the rest of the night, walking up and down in the greatest agitation, listening attentively, catching and fearing each sound as if it were to announce the approach of the demoniacal corpse to which I had so miserably given life.
人生的不同意外并不像人性的感情那样变幻莫测。我辛苦工作了近两年，唯一的目的就是为无生命的身体注入生命。为此我剥夺了自己的休息和健康。我对它的渴望远远超过了节制。但现在我已经完成了，梦的美丽消失了，我的心充满了令人窒息的恐惧和厌恶。我无法忍受自己所创造的存在的样子，冲出了房间，在我的卧室里走了很长一段时间，无法安心入睡。最后，我先前所忍受的骚动取代了疲倦，我穿着衣服倒在床上，试图寻求片刻的忘却。但这是徒劳的；我确实睡着了，但我却被最疯狂的梦所打扰。我想我看到了伊丽莎白，她正健康地走在因戈尔施塔特的街道上。我既高兴又惊讶地拥抱了她，但当我将初吻印在她的嘴唇上时，她的嘴唇变得苍白，呈现出死亡的色调；她的面容似乎发生了变化，我以为我怀里抱着的是我死去母亲的尸体；裹尸布包裹着她的身体，我看到坟墓里的蠕虫在法兰绒的褶皱里爬行。我惊恐地从睡梦中惊醒。冰冷的露珠沾满了我的额头，我的牙齿打战，四肢抽搐。当月光强行穿过百叶窗的时候，借着昏黄的月光，我看到了这个不幸的人——我创造的可怜的怪物。他拉起床帘；他的眼睛，如果可以称之为眼睛的话，一直盯着我。他张开下巴，嘴里咕哝着一些含糊不清的声音，脸上挂着笑容。 他可能说话了，但我没有听见；一只手伸出来，似乎要扣住我，但我逃脱了，冲下楼。我躲在我居住的房子的院子里，整个晚上我都待在那里，焦躁不安地走来走去，聚精会神地听着，捕捉着每一个声音，并害怕它，仿佛它在宣告着我的到来。我悲惨地赋予了这具恶魔般的尸体以生命。

Oh! No mortal could support the horror of that countenance. A mummy again endued with animation could not be so hideous as that wretch. I had gazed on him while unfinished; he was ugly then, but when those muscles and joints were rendered capable of motion, it became a thing such as even Dante could not have conceived.
哦！没有凡人能够忍受那张脸的恐怖。一具再次充满活力的木乃伊不可能像那个可怜虫那么丑陋。我在未完成的时候凝视着他；那时的他很丑陋，但当那些肌肉和关节变得可以运动时，就变成了连但丁都无法想象的事情。

I passed the night wretchedly. Sometimes my pulse beat so quickly and hardly that I felt the palpitation of every artery; at others, I nearly sank to the ground through languor and extreme weakness. Mingled with this horror, I felt the bitterness of disappointment; dreams that had been my food and pleasant rest for so long a space were now become a hell to me; and the change was so rapid, the overthrow so complete!
我悲惨地度过了这一夜。有时我的脉搏跳得又快又轻，我能感觉到每条动脉的跳动；有时，我因无精打采和极度虚弱而差点倒在地上。夹杂在这种恐惧之中，我感到失望的苦涩。长期以来，梦想一直是我的食物和愉快的休息，现在对我来说变成了地狱。而且变化如此迅速，颠覆如此彻底！

Morning, dismal and wet, at length dawned and discovered to my sleepless and aching eyes the church of Ingolstadt, its white steeple and clock, which indicated the sixth hour. The porter opened the gates of the court, which had that night been my asylum, and I issued into the streets, pacing them with quick steps, as if I sought to avoid the wretch whom I feared every turning of the street would present to my view. I did not dare return to the apartment which I inhabited, but felt impelled to hurry on, although drenched by the rain which poured from a black and comfortless sky.
早晨，阴沉而潮湿，终于天亮了，在我失眠而疼痛的眼睛里发现了因戈尔施塔特教堂，它的白色尖塔和时钟，指示着第六点。门房打开了那天晚上我的避难所的法庭大门，我走进街道，快步走来走去，仿佛我试图避开那个不幸的人，我担心街道的每个转弯都会出现在我的面前。看法。我不敢回到我所居住的公寓，但觉得必须快点走，尽管被从黑暗而令人不舒服的天空倾泻而下的雨淋湿了。

I continued walking in this manner for some time, endeavouring by bodily exercise to ease the load that weighed upon my mind. I traversed the streets without any clear conception of where I was or what I was doing. My heart palpitated in the sickness of fear, and I hurried on with irregular steps, not daring to look about me:
我就这样走了一段时间，努力通过锻炼身体来减轻心里的负担。我穿过街道，对自己在哪里或在做什么没有任何清晰的概念。我的心因恐惧而狂跳，脚步不稳地快步走着，不敢回头看：

Like one who, on a lonely road,
就像一个人走在孤独的路上，

Doth walk in fear and dread,
行走在恐惧和恐惧中，

And, having once turned round, walks on,
然后，转身继续​​走，

And turns no more his head;
不再转过头；

Because he knows a frightful fiend
因为他认识一个可怕的恶魔

Doth close behind him tread.
紧紧跟在他身后。

[Coleridge’s ‘Ancient Mariner.’]
[柯勒律治的《古代水手》。]

Continuing thus, I came at length opposite to the inn at which the various diligences and carriages usually stopped. Here I paused, I knew not why; but I remained some minutes with my eyes fixed on a coach that was coming towards me from the other end of the street. As it drew nearer I observed that it was the Swiss diligence; it stopped just where I was standing, and on the door being opened, I perceived Henry Clerval, who, on seeing me, instantly sprung out. ‘My dear Frankenstein,’ exclaimed he, ‘how glad I am to see you! How fortunate that you should be here at the very moment of my alighting!’
就这样继续走下去，我终于来到了客栈对面，各种客车和马车通常都停在那里。说到这里我停了下来，我不知道为什么；但我又呆了几分钟，眼睛盯着一辆从街道另一端向我驶来的马车。当它越来越近时，我发现这是瑞士人的勤奋。它就停在我站的地方，门一打开，我就看到了亨利·克莱瓦尔，他一看到我，立刻跳了出来。 “我亲爱的弗兰肯斯坦，”他喊道，“见到你我多么高兴！多么幸运，我下车的那一刻你就在这里！”

Nothing could equal my delight on seeing Clerval; his presence brought back to my thoughts my father, Elizabeth, and all those scenes of home so dear to my recollection. I grasped his hand, and in a moment forgot my horror and misfortune; I felt suddenly, and for the first time during many months, calm and serene joy. I welcomed my friend, therefore, in the most cordial manner, and we walked towards my college. Clerval continued talking for some time about our mutual friends and his own good fortune in being permitted to come to Ingolstadt. ‘You may easily believe,’ said he, ‘how great was the difficulty to persuade my father that all necessary knowledge was not comprised in the noble art of bookkeeping; and, indeed, I believe I left him incredulous to the last, for his constant answer to my unwearied entreaties was the same as that of the Dutch schoolmaster in *The Vicar of Wakefield*: ‘I have ten thousand florins a year without Greek, I eat heartily without Greek.’ But his affection for me at length overcame his dislike of learning, and he has permitted me to undertake a voyage of discovery to the land of knowledge.’
没有什么比见到克莱瓦尔更让我高兴的了。他的出现让我想起了我的父亲伊丽莎白，以及我记忆中如此珍贵的所有家乡场景。我握住他的手，瞬间忘记了我的恐惧和不幸。我突然感到平静和安宁的喜悦，这是几个月以来的第一次。因此，我以最诚挚的方式欢迎了我的朋友，然后我们就向我的大学走去。克莱瓦尔继续谈论了我们共同的朋友和他自己被允许来到因戈尔施塔特的幸运。 “你可能很容易相信，”他说，“要说服我父亲相信高贵的簿记艺术并不包含所有必要的知识，这是多么困难；事实上，我相信我直到最后都让他难以置信，因为他对我孜孜不倦的恳求的不断回答与《韦克菲尔德牧师》中荷兰校长的回答相同：“我每年有一万弗罗林，没有希腊语， “没有希腊语，我吃得很饱。”但他对我的感情最终克服了他对学习的厌恶，他允许我踏上前往知识之地的发现之旅。

‘It gives me the greatest delight to see you; but tell me how you left my father, brothers, and Elizabeth.’
“见到你让我感到非常高兴；但告诉我你是如何离开我的父亲、兄弟和伊丽莎白的。

‘Very well, and very happy, only a little uneasy that they hear from you so seldom. By the by, I mean to lecture you a little upon their account myself. But, my dear Frankenstein,’ continued he, stopping short and gazing full in my face, ‘I did not before remark how very ill you appear; so thin and pale; you look as if you had been watching for several nights.’
“很好，也很高兴，只是有点不安，因为他们很少收到你的消息。顺便说一句，我想亲自就他们的问题向你们讲授一些知识。但是，我亲爱的弗兰肯斯坦，”他突然停下来，凝视着我的脸，继续说道，“我之前并没有注意到你看起来病得很严重；如此瘦弱、苍白；你看起来好像已经看了好几个晚上了。”

‘You have guessed right; I have lately been so deeply engaged in one occupation that I have not allowed myself sufficient rest, as you see; but I hope, I sincerely hope, that all these employments are now at an end and that I am at length free.’
‘你猜对了；正如你所看到的，我最近一直专注于一项职业，以至于没有让自己得到足够的休息。但我希望，我真诚地希望，所有这些工作现在都结束了，我终于自由了。”

I trembled excessively; I could not endure to think of, and far less to allude to, the occurrences of the preceding night. I walked with a quick pace, and we soon arrived at my college. I then reflected, and the thought made me shiver, that the creature whom I had left in my apartment might still be there, alive and walking about. I dreaded to behold this monster, but I feared still more that Henry should see him. Entreating him, therefore, to remain a few minutes at the bottom of the stairs, I darted up towards my own room. My hand was already on the lock of the door before I recollected myself. I then paused, and a cold shivering came over me. I threw the door forcibly open, as children are accustomed to do when they expect a spectre to stand in waiting for them on the other side; but nothing appeared. I stepped fearfully in: the apartment was empty, and my bedroom was also freed from its hideous guest. I could hardly believe that so great a good fortune could have befallen me, but when I became assured that my enemy had indeed fled, I clapped my hands for joy and ran down to Clerval.
我颤抖得厉害；我无法忍受想起前一天晚上发生的事情，更不用说提及了。我快步走着，很快就到了我的大学。然后我想到了，这个想法让我不寒而栗，我留在公寓里的那个生物可能还在那里，还活着，还在走来走去。我害怕看到这个怪物，但我更担心亨利会看到他。因此，我恳求他在楼梯底部停留几分钟，然后冲向自己的房间。等我回过神来时，我的手已经放在了门锁上。然后我停了下来，我浑身发冷。我用力把门打开，就像孩子们习惯做的那样，当他们期待有一个幽灵在另一边等着他们时；但什么也没有出现。我恐惧地走进去：公寓里空无一人，我的卧室里也没有那个可怕的客人。我几乎不敢相信如此巨大的好运会降临到我身上，但是当我确信我的敌人确实逃跑了时，我高兴地拍着手，跑到克莱瓦尔那里。

We ascended into my room, and the servant presently brought breakfast; but I was unable to contain myself. It was not joy only that possessed me; I felt my flesh tingle with excess of sensitiveness, and my pulse beat rapidly. I was unable to remain for a single instant in the same place; I jumped over the chairs, clapped my hands, and laughed aloud. Clerval at first attributed my unusual spirits to joy on his arrival, but when he observed me more attentively, he saw a wildness in my eyes for which he could not account, and my loud, unrestrained, heartless laughter frightened and astonished him.
我们登上房间，仆人立即送来了早餐。但我无法控制自己。令我着迷的不仅仅是喜悦；还有。我感到自己的肉因过于敏感而刺痛，脉搏跳动得很快。我无法在同一个地方停留片刻。我跳过椅子，拍着手，放声大笑。克莱瓦尔起初把我异常的精神归因于他到来时的喜悦，但当他更仔细地观察我时，他在我的眼睛里看到了一种他无法解释的狂野，而我响亮、无拘无束、无情的笑声让他感到害怕和惊讶。

‘My dear Victor,’ cried he, ‘what, for God’s sake, is the matter? Do not laugh in that manner. How ill you are! What is the cause of all this?’
“我亲爱的维克多，”他喊道，“看在上帝的份上，这是怎么回事？不要以那种方式笑。你病得多严重啊！这一切的原因是什么？

‘Do not ask me,’ cried I, putting my hands before my eyes, for I thought I saw the dreaded spectre glide into the room; ‘*he* can tell. Oh, save me! Save me!’ I imagined that the monster seized me; I struggled furiously and fell down in a fit.
“别问我，”我喊道，把手放在眼前，因为我以为我看到了可怕的幽灵溜进了房间。 ‘*他*能看出来。噢，救救我吧！救救我！”我想象着怪物抓住了我；我拼命挣扎，摔倒在地。

Poor Clerval! What must have been his feelings? A meeting, which he anticipated with such joy, so strangely turned to bitterness. But I was not the witness of his grief, for I was lifeless and did not recover my senses for a long, long time.
可怜的克莱瓦尔！他的感受一定是什么？他本来满心欢喜地期待着这次会面，却奇怪地变成了痛苦。但我并不是他悲伤的见证人，因为我已经毫无生气，很长很长一段时间都没有恢复知觉。

This was the commencement of a nervous fever which confined me for several months. During all that time Henry was my only nurse. I afterwards learned that, knowing my father’s advanced age and unfitness for so long a journey, and how wretched my sickness would make Elizabeth, he spared them this grief by concealing the extent of my disorder. He knew that I could not have a more kind and attentive nurse than himself; and, firm in the hope he felt of my recovery, he did not doubt that, instead of doing harm, he performed the kindest action that he could towards them.
这是神经性发烧的开始，这种发烧使我禁锢了几个月。在那段时间里，亨利是我唯一的护士。后来我才知道，他知道我父亲年事已高，身体不适合长途旅行，也知道我的病会让伊丽莎白变得多么悲惨，所以他隐瞒了我病情的严重程度，从而免除了他们的痛苦。他知道我找不到比他更友善、更细心的护士了。他坚定地希望我能康复，他毫不怀疑，他没有对他们造成伤害，而是尽其所能地对他们做了最仁慈的事情。

But I was in reality very ill, and surely nothing but the unbounded and unremitting attentions of my friend could have restored me to life. The form of the monster on whom I had bestowed existence was forever before my eyes, and I raved incessantly concerning him. Doubtless my words surprised Henry; he at first believed them to be the wanderings of my disturbed imagination, but the pertinacity with which I continually recurred to the same subject persuaded him that my disorder indeed owed its origin to some uncommon and terrible event.
但实际上我病得很重，当然，只有我朋友无限和不懈的关注才能让我复活。我赋予其存在的怪物的形体永远在我眼前，我不停地对他赞叹不已。毫无疑问，我的话让亨利感到惊讶。起初他相信这些是我混乱的想象力的漫游，但我不断地重复同一主题的执着使他相信我的混乱确实归因于一些不寻常和可怕的事件。

By very slow degrees, and with frequent relapses that alarmed and grieved my friend, I recovered. I remember the first time I became capable of observing outward objects with any kind of pleasure, I perceived that the fallen leaves had disappeared and that the young buds were shooting forth from the trees that shaded my window. It was a divine spring, and the season contributed greatly to my convalescence. I felt also sentiments of joy and affection revive in my bosom; my gloom disappeared, and in a short time I became as cheerful as before I was attacked by the fatal passion.
我慢慢地康复了，而且病情频繁复发，这让我的朋友感到震惊和悲伤。我记得当我第一次能够以任何形式的乐趣观察外部物体时，我发现落叶已经消失，新芽正在从遮住窗户的树上抽出。那是一个神圣的春天，这个季节对我的康复有很大帮助。我也感到喜悦和感情在我的怀里复苏。我的忧郁消失了，不久我就变得像被致命的激情袭击之前一样开朗。

‘Dearest Clerval,’ exclaimed I, ‘how kind, how very good you are to me. This whole winter, instead of being spent in study, as you promised yourself, has been consumed in my sick room. How shall I ever repay you? I feel the greatest remorse for the disappointment of which I have been the occasion, but you will forgive me.’
“最亲爱的克莱瓦尔，”我惊呼道，“你对我真好，真好。”这整个冬天，并没有像你向自己承诺的那样，花在学习上，而是在我的病房里度过。我该如何报答你呢？我对自己所造成的失望感到非常悔恨，但你会原谅我的。”

‘You will repay me entirely if you do not discompose yourself, but get well as fast as you can; and since you appear in such good spirits, I may speak to you on one subject, may I not?’
“如果你不心烦意乱，而是尽快康复，你就会完全报答我；既然你看起来精神这么好，我可以和你谈谈一个话题，可以吗？

I trembled. One subject! What could it be? Could he allude to an object on whom I dared not even think?
我颤抖着。一题！会是什么呢？他会不会提到一个我根本不敢想的物体？

‘Compose yourself,’ said Clerval, who observed my change of colour, ‘I will not mention it if it agitates you; but your father and cousin would be very happy if they received a letter from you in your own handwriting. They hardly know how ill you have been and are uneasy at your long silence.’
“冷静一下，”克莱瓦尔观察到我脸色的变化，说道，“如果这件事让你感到不安，我就不会提及；因为这件事会让你感到不安。”但如果你的父亲和表弟收到你亲笔写的信，他们会很高兴。他们几乎不知道你病得有多严重，并且对你长时间的沉默感到不安。

‘Is that all, my dear Henry? How could you suppose that my first thought would not fly towards those dear, dear friends whom I love and who are so deserving of my love?’
“就这些了吗，我亲爱的亨利？你怎么能认为我的第一个念头不会飞向那些我爱的、值得我爱的亲爱的朋友呢？

‘If this is your present temper, my friend, you will perhaps be glad to see a letter that has been lying here some days for you; it is from your cousin, I believe.’
“如果这就是你现在的脾气，我的朋友，你也许会很高兴看到这几天放在这里给你的一封信；我相信是你表弟寄来的。”

Chapter 6
第6章

Clerval then put the following letter into my hands. It was from my own Elizabeth:
然后克莱瓦尔将下面的信交给了我。这是我自己的伊丽莎白写的：

My dearest Cousin,
我最亲爱的表弟，

You have been ill, very ill, and even the constant letters of dear kind Henry are not sufficient to reassure me on your account. You are forbidden to write—to hold a pen; yet one word from you, dear Victor, is necessary to calm our apprehensions. For a long time I have thought that each post would bring this line, and my persuasions have restrained my uncle from undertaking a journey to Ingolstadt. I have prevented his encountering the inconveniences and perhaps dangers of so long a journey, yet how often have I regretted not being able to perform it myself! I figure to myself that the task of attending on your sickbed has devolved on some mercenary old nurse, who could never guess your wishes nor minister to them with the care and affection of your poor cousin. Yet that is over now: Clerval writes that indeed you are getting better. I eagerly hope that you will confirm this intelligence soon in your own handwriting.
你病了，病得很重，即使是亲爱的亨利不断地写信也不足以让我对你放心。你被禁止写字——拿笔；然而，亲爱的维克多，你的一句话对于平息我们的忧虑是必要的。很长一段时间以来，我一直以为每个帖子都会带来这句话，我的劝说阻止了我叔叔前往因戈尔施塔特。我阻止了他遭遇长途旅行的不便甚至危险，但我多少次为自己无法亲自完成而感到遗憾！我心想，照顾你病床的任务已经转移到了某个唯利是图的老护士身上，她永远猜不到你的愿望，也无法像你可怜的表弟一样关心和爱护你。但现在一切都结束了：克莱瓦尔写道，你确实正在变得更好。我热切地希望您能尽快亲笔确认这一情报。

Get well—and return to us. You will find a happy, cheerful home and friends who love you dearly. Your father’s health is vigorous, and he asks but to see you, but to be assured that you are well; and not a care will ever cloud his benevolent countenance. How pleased you would be to remark the improvement of our Ernest! He is now sixteen and full of activity and spirit. He is desirous to be a true Swiss and to enter into foreign service, but we cannot part with him, at least until his elder brother return to us. My uncle is not pleased with the idea of a military career in a distant country, but Ernest never had your powers of application. He looks upon study as an odious fetter; his time is spent in the open air, climbing the hills or rowing on the lake. I fear that he will become an idler unless we yield the point and permit him to enter on the profession which he has selected.
康复并回到我们身边。你会找到一个幸福、快乐的家和深爱你的朋友。你父亲的健康状况很好，他只想见你一面，但他确信你一切都很好。任何忧虑都不会遮掩他仁慈的面容。如果您评价我们欧内斯特的进步，您会感到多么高兴！他现在十六岁了，精力充沛，精神抖擞。他渴望成为一个真正的瑞士人并进入外交部门，但我们不能与他分开，至少在他的哥哥回到我们身边之前是这样。我叔叔对在遥远的国家从事军事生涯的想法不满意，但欧内斯特从来没有像你这样申请的权力。他把学习视为可憎的枷锁；他的时间都花在户外，爬山或在湖上划船。我担心他会成为一个闲人，除非我们让步并允许他从事他所选择的职业。

Little alteration, except the growth of our dear children, has taken place since you left us. The blue lake and snow-clad mountains—they never change; and I think our placid home and our contented hearts are regulated by the same immutable laws. My trifling occupations take up my time and amuse me, and I am rewarded for any exertions by seeing none but happy, kind faces around me. Since you left us, but one change has taken place in our little household. Do you remember on what occasion Justine Moritz entered our family? Probably you do not; I will relate her history, therefore, in a few words. Madame Moritz, her mother, was a widow with four children, of whom Justine was the third. This girl had always been the favourite of her father, but through a strange perversity, her mother could not endure her, and after the death of M. Moritz, treated her very ill. My aunt observed this, and when Justine was twelve years of age, prevailed on her mother to allow her to live at our house. The republican institutions of our country have produced simpler and happier manners than those which prevail in the great monarchies that surround it. Hence there is less distinction between the several classes of its inhabitants; and the lower orders, being neither so poor nor so despised, their manners are more refined and moral. A servant in Geneva does not mean the same thing as a servant in France and England. Justine, thus received in our family, learned the duties of a servant, a condition which, in our fortunate country, does not include the idea of ignorance and a sacrifice of the dignity of a human being.
自从您离开我们以来，除了我们亲爱的孩子们的成长之外，几乎没有发生什么变化。蓝色的湖水，雪山，从未改变；我认为我们平静的家和我们满足的心都受到同样不可改变的法则的调节。我的琐事占用了我的时间并让我开心，而我的任何努力都会得到回报，因为我看到周围只有快乐、友善的面孔。自从你离开我们之后，我们这个小家却发生了一些变化。你还记得贾斯汀·莫里茨什么时候进入我们家吗？也许你不知道；因此，我将用几句话讲述她的历史。她的母亲莫里茨夫人是一位寡妇，有四个孩子，贾斯汀排行老三。这个女孩一直是她父亲的最爱，但由于一种奇怪的反常，她的母亲无法忍受她，莫里茨先生去世后，对她非常不好。我姨妈注意到了这一点，当贾斯汀十二岁的时候，她说服了她的母亲让她住在我们家。我国的共和制度比周围的伟大君主国所盛行的制度更简单、更快乐。因此，其居民的不同阶级之间的区别较小。而下层阶级，既不那么贫穷，也不那么受人轻视，他们的举止更加优雅和道德。日内瓦的仆人与法国和英国的仆人的含义不同。贾斯汀因此被接纳在我们的家庭中，学会了仆人的职责，在我们幸运的国家，这一条件不包括无知和牺牲人类尊严的观念。

Justine, you may remember, was a great favourite of yours; and I recollect you once remarked that if you were in an ill humour, one glance from Justine could dissipate it, for the same reason that Ariosto gives concerning the beauty of Angelica—she looked so frank-hearted and happy. My aunt conceived a great attachment for her, by which she was induced to give her an education superior to that which she had at first intended. This benefit was fully repaid; Justine was the most grateful little creature in the world: I do not mean that she made any professions; I never heard one pass her lips, but you could see by her eyes that she almost adored her protectress. Although her disposition was gay and in many respects inconsiderate, yet she paid the greatest attention to every gesture of my aunt. She thought her the model of all excellence and endeavoured to imitate her phraseology and manners, so that even now she often reminds me of her.
你可能还记得，贾斯汀是你最喜欢的人。我记得你曾经说过，如果你心情不好，贾斯汀的一个眼神就能驱散它，就像阿里奥斯托对安吉丽卡的美丽的评价一样——她看起来如此坦诚和快乐。我姨妈对她产生了很大的依恋，因此她被诱使给她提供比她最初想要的更好的教育。该福利已全部偿还；贾斯汀是世界上最懂得感恩的小生灵：我并不是说她从事任何职业；她只是一个人。我从来没有听到过她的嘴唇，但你可以从她的眼睛里看出她几乎崇拜她的保护者。虽然她性格开朗，在很多方面都不顾及别人的感受，但她却对姨妈的一举一动都格外留意。她认为她是一切优秀的典范，并努力模仿她的措辞和举止，所以即使现在她也经常让我想起她。

When my dearest aunt died every one was too much occupied in their own grief to notice poor Justine, who had attended her during her illness with the most anxious affection. Poor Justine was very ill; but other trials were reserved for her.
当我最亲爱的姨妈去世时，每个人都沉浸在自己的悲伤中，没有注意到可怜的贾斯汀，她在她生病期间以最焦虑的感情照顾着她。可怜的贾斯汀病得很重。但还有其他的考验是留给她的。

One by one, her brothers and sister died; and her mother, with the exception of her neglected daughter, was left childless. The conscience of the woman was troubled; she began to think that the deaths of her favourites was a judgment from heaven to chastise her partiality. She was a Roman Catholic; and I believe her confessor confirmed the idea which she had conceived. Accordingly, a few months after your departure for Ingolstadt, Justine was called home by her repentant mother. Poor girl! She wept when she quitted our house; she was much altered since the death of my aunt; grief had given softness and a winning mildness to her manners which had before been remarkable for vivacity. Nor was her residence at her mother’s house of a nature to restore her gaiety. The poor woman was very vacillating in her repentance. She sometimes begged Justine to forgive her unkindness but much oftener accused her of having caused the deaths of her brothers and sister. Perpetual fretting at length threw Madame Moritz into a decline, which at first increased her irritability, but she is now at peace for ever. She died on the first approach of cold weather, at the beginning of this last winter. Justine has returned to us, and I assure you I love her tenderly. She is very clever and gentle and extremely pretty; as I mentioned before, her mien and her expressions continually remind me of my dear aunt.
她的兄弟姐妹一一死去；她的母亲除了被忽视的女儿外，没有孩子。女人的良心不安；她开始认为，她最爱的人的死是上天对她偏心的惩罚。她是一名罗马天主教徒；我相信她的忏悔神父证实了她的想法。因此，在您前往因戈尔施塔特几个月后，贾斯汀被她悔改的母亲叫回家。可怜的姑娘！当她离开我们家时，她哭了；自从我姨妈去世后，她发生了很大的变化。悲伤给她的举止带来了温柔和迷人的温和，而这在以前是非常活泼的。她住在母亲家里也无法恢复她的快乐。这个可怜的女人在悔改方面非常犹豫不决。她有时恳求贾斯汀原谅她的不友善，但更常见的是指责她造成了她兄弟姐妹的死亡。持续不断的烦躁最终使莫里茨夫人陷入了衰弱，这使她起初更加烦躁，但现在她永远平静了。去年冬天初，她在寒冷天气第一次来临的时候去世了。贾斯汀回到了我们身边，我向你保证我温柔地爱着她。她非常聪明、温柔，而且非常漂亮；正如我之前提到的，她的举止和表情不断让我想起我亲爱的阿姨。

I must say also a few words to you, my dear cousin, of little darling William. I wish you could see him; he is very tall of his age, with sweet laughing blue eyes, dark eyelashes, and curling hair. When he smiles, two little dimples appear on each cheek, which are rosy with health. He has already had one or two little *wives*, but Louisa Biron is his favourite, a pretty little girl of five years of age.
我还必须对你说几句话，我亲爱的表弟，关于小宝贝威廉。我希望你能见到他；他的个子在同龄人中很高，有一双甜甜的、笑起来的蓝眼睛、深色的睫毛和卷曲的头发。当他微笑时，双颊上都会出现两个小酒窝，红润健康。他已经有一两个小“妻子”了，但路易莎·拜伦是他的最爱，一个五岁的漂亮小女孩。

Now, dear Victor, I dare say you wish to be indulged in a little gossip concerning the good people of Geneva. The pretty Miss Mansfield has already received the congratulatory visits on her approaching marriage with a young Englishman, John Melbourne, Esq. Her ugly sister, Manon, married M. Duvillard, the rich banker, last autumn. Your favourite schoolfellow, Louis Manoir, has suffered several misfortunes since the departure of Clerval from Geneva. But he has already recovered his spirits, and is reported to be on the point of marrying a very lively, pretty Frenchwoman, Madame Tavernier. She is a widow, and much older than Manoir, but she is very much admired and a favourite with everybody.
现在，亲爱的维克多，我敢说您希望沉迷于有关日内瓦善良人民的一些八卦。美丽的曼斯菲尔德小姐已经因与年轻的英国人约翰·墨尔本先生即将结婚而受到了祝贺。去年秋天，她丑陋的妹妹曼农 (Manon) 嫁给了富有的银行家杜维拉德先生 (M. Duvillard)。自从克莱瓦尔离开日内瓦以来，你最喜欢的同学路易斯·马努瓦遭受了几次不幸。但他已经恢复了精神，据报道即将与一位非常活泼、漂亮的法国女人塔维尼尔夫人结婚。她是一位寡妇，比马诺尔年长很多，但她深受大家的钦佩和喜爱。

I have written myself into better spirits, dear cousin; but my anxiety returns upon me as I conclude. Write, dearest Victor—one line—one word will be a blessing to us. Ten thousand thanks to Henry for his kindness, his affection, and his many letters; we are sincerely grateful. Adieu! My cousin, take care of yourself, and, I entreat you, write!
我已经把自己写得精神好多了，亲爱的表弟；但当我得出结论时，我的焦虑又回来了。写吧，最亲爱的维克多——一行——一个字将成为我们的祝福。万分感谢亨利的好意、他的感情以及他的许多来信；我们衷心感谢。再见！我的表弟，照顾好自己，我恳求你，写信！

Elizabeth Lavenza
伊丽莎白·拉文扎

Geneva, March 18th, 17—
2017 年 3 月 18 日，日内瓦——

‘Dear, dear Elizabeth!’ I exclaimed when I had read her letter. ‘I will write instantly and relieve them from the anxiety they must feel.’ I wrote, and this exertion greatly fatigued me; but my convalescence had commenced, and proceeded regularly. In another fortnight I was able to leave my chamber.
“亲爱的，亲爱的伊丽莎白！”读完她的信后，我惊呼道。 “我会立即写信，让他们摆脱他们必须感受到的焦虑。”我写道，这种努力让我感到非常疲倦。但我的康复已经开始，并且有规律地进行。又过了两周，我就可以离开我的房间了。

One of my first duties on my recovery was to introduce Clerval to the several professors of the university. In doing this, I underwent a kind of rough usage, ill befitting the wounds that my mind had sustained. Ever since the fatal night, the end of my labours, and the beginning of my misfortunes, I had conceived a violent antipathy even to the name of natural philosophy. When I was otherwise quite restored to health, the sight of a chemical instrument would renew all the agony of my nervous symptoms. Henry saw this, and had removed all my apparatus from my view. He had also changed my apartment, for he perceived that I had acquired a dislike for the room which had previously been my laboratory. But these cares of Clerval were made of no avail when I visited the professors. M. Waldman inflicted torture when he praised, with kindness and warmth, the astonishing progress I had made in the sciences. He soon perceived that I disliked the subject, but not guessing the real cause, he attributed my feelings to modesty and changed the subject from my improvement to the science itself, with a desire, as I evidently saw, of drawing me out. What could I do? He meant to please, and he tormented me. I felt as if he had placed carefully, one by one, in my view those instruments which were to be afterwards used in putting me to a slow and cruel death. I writhed under his words yet dared not exhibit the pain I felt. Clerval, whose eyes and feelings were always quick in discerning the sensations of others, declined the subject, alleging, in excuse, his total ignorance; and the conversation took a more general turn. I thanked my friend from my heart, but I did not speak. I saw plainly that he was surprised, but he never attempted to draw my secret from me; and although I loved him with a mixture of affection and reverence that knew no bounds, yet I could never persuade myself to confide to him that event which was so often present to my recollection but which I feared the detail to another would only impress more deeply.
康复后我的首要任务之一就是向大学的几位教授介绍克莱瓦尔。在这样做的过程中，我经历了一种粗暴的使用，与我心灵所受的创伤不相符。自从那个致命的夜晚，我的劳动结束，我的不幸开始以来，我什至对自然哲学的名字都产生了强烈的反感。当我的健康完全恢复时，一看到化学仪器就会让我的神经症状再次感到痛苦。亨利看到了这一点，并把我所有的仪器从我的视野中移开。他还换了我的公寓，因为他发现我已经不喜欢这个以前是我实验室的房间了。但当我拜访教授们时，克莱瓦尔的这些关心并没有起到什么作用。沃尔德曼先生善意而热情地赞扬我在科学上取得的惊人进步，这对我来说是一种折磨。他很快就意识到我不喜欢这个主题，但没有猜测真正的原因，他将我的感觉归因于谦虚，并将主题从我的进步转向科学本身，正如我显然看到的那样，他希望把我拉出来。我能做什么？他本意是为了取悦我，但他却在折磨我。我觉得他好像在我看来，小心翼翼地把那些工具一一放置在我的眼前，这些工具后来将被用来缓慢而残酷地处死我。他的话让我浑身翻腾，却又不敢表现出我的痛苦。克莱瓦尔的眼睛和感觉总是能够迅速辨别他人的感受，他拒绝了这个话题，借口说自己完全无知。谈话转向了更广泛的话题。我发自内心地感谢我的朋友，但我没有说话。 我清楚地看出他很惊讶，但他从未试图从我嘴里套出我的秘密。虽然我对他怀着无限的爱意和崇敬之情，但我永远无法说服自己向他吐露那件事，这件事经常出现在我的记忆中，但我担心细节给别人只会留下更深刻的印象。 。

M. Krempe was not equally docile; and in my condition at that time, of almost insupportable sensitiveness, his harsh, blunt encomiums gave me even more pain than the benevolent approbation of M. Waldman. ‘D—n the fellow!’ cried he. ‘Why, M. Clerval, I assure you he has outstripped us all. Ay, stare if you please; but it is nevertheless true. A youngster who, but a few years ago, believed in Cornelius Agrippa as firmly as in the Gospel, has now set himself at the head of the university; and if he is not soon pulled down, we shall all be out of countenance. Ay, ay,’ continued he, observing my face expressive of suffering, ‘M. Frankenstein is modest, an excellent quality in a young man. Young men should be diffident of themselves, you know, M. Clerval; I was myself when young; but that wears out in a very short time.’
克伦佩先生并不同样温顺。在我当时的情况下，几乎无法忍受的敏感，他严厉、直率的赞美给我带来的痛苦比沃尔德曼先生的仁慈的赞许还要多。 “该死的家伙！”他喊道。 “哎呀，克莱瓦尔先生，我向你保证他已经超越了我们所有人。哎呀，如果你愿意的话，就盯着看吧；但这确实是事实。几年前，这位年轻人还像福音书一样坚定地相信哥尼流·阿格里帕，如今却成为了大学的校长；如果不尽快把他打倒，我们都会面无表情。哎呀，哎呀，”他继续说道，观察着我脸上流露出痛苦的表情，“M。弗兰肯斯坦为人谦虚，这是年轻人身上的优秀品质。克莱瓦尔先生，你知道，年轻人应该对自己感到自信。年轻时我还是我自己；但它会在很短的时间内磨损。”

M. Krempe had now commenced a eulogy on himself, which happily turned the conversation from a subject that was so annoying to me.
克伦佩先生现在开始为自己写悼词，这很高兴地把话题从令我讨厌的话题上转移了。

Clerval had never sympathized in my tastes for natural science, and his literary pursuits differed wholly from those which had occupied me. He came to the university with the design of making himself complete master of the Oriental languages, as thus he should open a field for the plan of life he had marked out for himself. Resolved to pursue no inglorious career, he turned his eyes towards the East as affording scope for his spirit of enterprise. The Persian, Arabic, and Sanskrit languages engaged his attention, and I was easily induced to enter on the same studies. Idleness had ever been irksome to me, and now that I wished to fly from reflection and hated my former studies, I felt great relief in being the fellow pupil with my friend, and found not only instruction but consolation in the works of the Orientalists. I did not, like him, attempt a critical knowledge of their dialects, for I did not contemplate making any other use of them than temporary amusement. I read merely to understand their meaning, and they well repaid my labours. Their melancholy is soothing, and their joy elevating, to a degree I never experienced in studying the authors of any other country. When you read their writings, life appears to consist in a warm sun and a garden of roses, in the smiles and frowns of a fair enemy, and the fire that consumes your own heart. How different from the manly and heroical poetry of Greece and Rome!
克莱瓦尔从来不认同我对自然科学的兴趣，他的文学追求也与我所追求的完全不同。他来到大学，是为了让自己完全掌握东方语言，为自己制定的人生计划开辟一片天地。他决心不再追求不光彩的职业，将目光投向了东方，因为东方为他的进取精神提供了发挥的空间。波斯语、阿拉伯语和梵语吸引了他的注意力，我很容易就被吸引进入同样的研究。懒惰一直让我感到厌烦，现在我想逃避反思，讨厌以前的学习，与我的朋友成为同学让我感到极大的解脱，在东方学家的著作中不仅得到了指导，而且得到了安慰。我没有像他一样尝试对他们的方言进行批判性的了解，因为除了暂时的娱乐之外，我没有考虑将它们用于任何其他用途。我阅读只是为了理解它们的含义，它们很好地回报了我的劳动。他们的忧郁令人舒缓，他们的欢乐令人振奋，达到了我在研究任何其他国家的作家时从未体验过的程度。当你阅读他们的作品时，你会发现生活似乎包含在温暖的阳光和玫瑰花园中，存在于公平敌人的微笑和皱眉中，以及吞噬你自己内心的火焰中。与希腊、罗马的男子气概和英雄主义诗歌多么不同啊！

Summer passed away in these occupations, and my return to Geneva was fixed for the latter end of autumn; but being delayed by several accidents, winter and snow arrived, the roads were deemed impassable, and my journey was retarded until the ensuing spring. I felt this delay very bitterly, for I longed to see my native town and my beloved friends. My return had only been delayed so long from an unwillingness to leave Clerval in a strange place before he had become acquainted with any of its inhabitants. The winter, however, was spent cheerfully, and although the spring was uncommonly late, when it came its beauty compensated for its dilatoriness.
夏天就这样过去了，我回到日内瓦的时间定在秋末。但由于几次事故的耽误，冬天和雪到来，道路无法通行，我的行程被推迟到来年春天。我对这种耽搁感到非常痛苦，因为我渴望见到我的家乡和我亲爱的朋友。我的归程只被推迟了这么长时间，因为我不愿意在克莱瓦尔熟悉那里的任何居民之前将他留在一个陌生的地方。然而，冬天却是愉快地度过的，虽然春天来得异常晚，但它的美丽弥补了它的迟缓。

The month of May had already commenced, and I expected the letter daily which was to fix the date of my departure, when Henry proposed a pedestrian tour in the environs of Ingolstadt, that I might bid a personal farewell to the country I had so long inhabited. I acceded with pleasure to this proposition: I was fond of exercise, and Clerval had always been my favourite companion in the rambles of this nature that I had taken among the scenes of my native country.
五月已经开始，我每天都期待着这封信，确定我的出发日期，当时亨利提议步行游览英戈尔施塔特的郊区，这样我就可以向我长久以来的国家告别了。居住过。我高兴地接受了这个提议：我喜欢锻炼，克莱瓦尔一直是我在祖国的风景中漫步时最喜欢的同伴。

We passed a fortnight in these perambulations; my health and spirits had long been restored, and they gained additional strength from the salubrious air I breathed, the natural incidents of our progress, and the conversation of my friend. Study had before secluded me from the intercourse of my fellow creatures and rendered me unsocial, but Clerval called forth the better feelings of my heart; he again taught me to love the aspect of nature and the cheerful faces of children. Excellent friend! How sincerely did you love me and endeavour to elevate my mind until it was on a level with your own! A selfish pursuit had cramped and narrowed me until your gentleness and affection warmed and opened my senses; I became the same happy creature who, a few years ago, loved and beloved by all, had no sorrow or care. When happy, inanimate nature had the power of bestowing on me the most delightful sensations. A serene sky and verdant fields filled me with ecstasy. The present season was indeed divine; the flowers of spring bloomed in the hedges, while those of summer were already in bud. I was undisturbed by thoughts which during the preceding year had pressed upon me, notwithstanding my endeavours to throw them off, with an invincible burden.
我们在这些巡视中度过了两个星期。我的健康和精神早已恢复，并且从我呼吸的有益健康的空气、我们前进的自然事件以及我朋友的谈话中获得了额外的力量。以前，学习使我无法与同胞交流，使我变得不合群，但克莱瓦尔唤起了我内心更好的感觉；他再次教会我热爱大自然的一面和孩子们快乐的面孔。优秀的朋友！你是多么真诚地爱我，并努力提升我的思想，直到它与你的思想处于同一水平！自私的追求让我变得狭窄和狭窄，直到你的温柔和深情温暖并打开了我的感官；我又变成了几年前那个被所有人爱着、被爱着、没有悲伤、没有忧虑的快乐生物。当快乐时，无生命的大自然有能力赋予我最令人愉悦的感觉。宁静的天空和翠绿的田野让我心旷神怡。现在的季节确实是神圣的。春天的花朵在树篱中绽放，而夏天的花朵已经含苞待放。我并没有被前一年压在我身上的想法所困扰，尽管我以不可战胜的负担努力摆脱它们。

Henry rejoiced in my gaiety and sincerely sympathized in my feelings; he exerted himself to amuse me, while he expressed the sensations that filled his soul. The resources of his mind on this occasion were truly astonishing; his conversation was full of imagination, and very often, in imitation of the Persian and Arabic writers, he invented tales of wonderful fancy and passion. At other times he repeated my favourite poems or drew me out into arguments, which he supported with great ingenuity.
亨利为我的快乐感到高兴，并真诚地同情我的感受。他一边竭尽全力地逗我开心，一边表达着他灵魂深处的感受。这次他的脑力真是惊人。他的谈话充满想象力，而且常常模仿波斯和阿拉伯作家，编造出充满奇思妙想和激情的故事。其他时候，他会重复我最喜欢的诗歌，或者让我陷入争论，他以极大的独创性支持我的观点。

We returned to our college on a Sunday afternoon; the peasants were dancing, and everyone we met appeared gay and happy. My own spirits were high, and I bounded along with feelings of unbridled joy and hilarity.
周日下午我们回到了大学。农民们在跳舞，我们遇到的每个人都显得快乐而快乐。我自己的情绪很高涨，我带着无拘无束的喜悦和欢闹的感觉跳跃着。

Chapter 7
第7章

On my return, I found the following letter from my father:—
回来后，我发现了父亲写的以下信：——

‘My dear Victor,
“我亲爱的维克多，

‘You have probably waited impatiently for a letter to fix the date of your return to us; and I was at first tempted to write only a few lines, merely mentioning the day on which I should expect you. But that would be a cruel kindness, and I dare not do it. What would be your surprise, my son, when you expected a happy and glad welcome, to behold, on the contrary, tears and wretchedness? And how, Victor, can I relate our misfortune? Absence cannot have rendered you callous to our joys and griefs; and how shall I inflict pain on my long absent son? I wish to prepare you for the woeful news, but I know it is impossible; even now your eye skims over the page to seek the words which are to convey to you the horrible tidings.
“你可能已经不耐烦地等待一封信来确定你返回我们的日期；起初我只想写几行，只是提到我应该等你的那一天。但这是一种残忍的善意，我不敢这么做。我的儿子，当你期待着幸福和高兴的欢迎时，看到的却是泪水和悲伤，你会感到惊讶吗？维克多，我该如何讲述我们的不幸呢？缺席不会让你对我们的欢乐和悲伤麻木不仁；我该如何让我久违的儿子痛苦呢？我想让你对这个不幸的消息做好准备，但我知道这是不可能的；即使是现在，你的眼睛仍在页面上浏览，寻找那些向你传达可怕消息的文字。

William is dead!—that sweet child, whose smiles delighted and warmed my heart, who was so gentle, yet so gay! Victor, he is murdered! I will not attempt to console you; but will simply relate the circumstances of the transaction.
威廉死了！——那个可爱的孩子，他的笑容让我高兴，温暖了我的心，他是那么温柔，却又那么快乐！维克多，他被谋杀了！我不会试图安慰你；但只会简单地叙述交易的情况。

Last Thursday (May 7th), I, my niece, and your two brothers, went to walk in Plainpalais. The evening was warm and serene, and we prolonged our walk farther than usual. It was already dusk before we thought of returning; and then we discovered that William and Ernest, who had gone on before, were not to be found. We accordingly rested on a seat until they should return. Presently Ernest came, and enquired if we had seen his brother; he said, that he had been playing with him, that William had run away to hide himself, and that he vainly sought for him, and afterwards waited for a long time, but that he did not return.
上周四（5月7日），我、我的侄女和你的两个兄弟去Plainpalais散步。夜晚温暖而宁静，我们比平常走得更远。等我们想回去的时候，已经是黄昏了。然后我们发现先前出发的威廉和欧内斯特不见了。因此，我们在座位上休息，直到他们回来。不久，欧内斯特来了，询问我们是否见过他的兄弟。他说，他一直在和他玩耍，威廉逃跑躲藏起来，他徒劳地寻找他，后来等了很长时间，但他没有回来。

This account rather alarmed us, and we continued to search for him until night fell, when Elizabeth conjectured that he might have returned to the house. He was not there. We returned again, with torches; for I could not rest, when I thought that my sweet boy had lost himself, and was exposed to all the damps and dews of night; Elizabeth also suffered extreme anguish. About five in the morning I discovered my lovely boy, whom the night before I had seen blooming and active in health, stretched on the grass livid and motionless; the print of the murderer’s finger was on his neck.
这个说法让我们相当震惊，我们继续寻找他，直到夜幕降临，这时伊丽莎白推测他可能已经回到了房子。他不在那儿。我们带着火把又回来了；因为当我想到我可爱的孩子已经迷失了自己，并暴露在夜晚的所有潮湿和露水中时，我无法休息。伊丽莎白也遭受了极大的痛苦。早上五点左右，我发现了我可爱的孩子，前一天晚上我还看到他健康活泼地绽放着，现在他脸色铁青，一动不动地躺在草地上。凶手的手指印在他的脖子上。

He was conveyed home, and the anguish that was visible in my countenance betrayed the secret to Elizabeth. She was very earnest to see the corpse. At first I attempted to prevent her; but she persisted, and entering the room where it lay, hastily examined the neck of the victim, and clasping her hands exclaimed, ‘O God! I have murdered my darling child!’
他被送回家，我脸上明显的痛苦向伊丽莎白泄露了这个秘密。她很迫切地想看到尸体。起初我试图阻止她，但她没有这么做。但她坚持不懈，走进了尸体所在的房间，匆忙检查了受害者的脖子，并紧握双手惊呼：“上帝啊！我谋杀了我亲爱的孩子！

She fainted, and was restored with extreme difficulty. When she again lived, it was only to weep and sigh. She told me, that that same evening William had teased her to let him wear a very valuable miniature that she possessed of your mother. This picture is gone, and was doubtless the temptation which urged the murdered to the deed. We have no trace of him at present, although our exertions to discover him are unremitted; but they will not restore my beloved William!
她晕了过去，好不容易才恢复过来。当她再活过来的时候，只剩下哭泣和叹息。她告诉我，那天晚上威廉取笑她让他戴上她拥有的你母亲的一个非常珍贵的微型模型。这张照片已经消失了，无疑是促使被谋杀者采取行动的诱惑。尽管我们一直在努力寻找他，但目前我们还没有找到他的踪迹。但他们不会挽回我心爱的威廉！

Come, dearest Victor; you alone can console Elizabeth. She weeps continually, and accuses herself unjustly as the cause of his death; her words pierce my heart. We are all unhappy; but will not that be an additional motive for you, my son, to return and be our comforter? Your dear mother! Alas, Victor! I now say, Thank God she did not live to witness the cruel, miserable death of her youngest darling!
来吧，最亲爱的维克多；只有你才能安慰伊丽莎白。她不停地哭泣，并不公正地指责自己是造成他死亡的原因。她的话刺痛了我的心。我们都不快乐；但这难道不会成为你，我的儿子，回来安慰我们的额外动机吗？你亲爱的妈妈！唉，维克多！我现在要说，感谢上帝，她没有活着亲眼目睹她最小的宝贝残酷而悲惨的死亡！

Come, Victor; not brooding thoughts of vengeance against the assassin, but with feelings of peace and gentleness, that will heal, instead of festering, the wounds of our minds. Enter the house of mourning, my friend, but with kindness and affection for those who love you, and not with hatred for your enemies.
来吧，维克多；不是沉思着向刺客报仇，而是带着平静和温柔的感觉，这会治愈我们心灵的伤口，而不是使其溃烂。进入哀悼之家，我的朋友，但要带着对爱你的人的仁慈和感情，而不是对你的敌人的仇恨。

Your affectionate and afflicted father,
你深情而痛苦的父亲，

Alphonse Frankenstein.
阿尔方斯·弗兰肯斯坦。

Geneva, May 12th, 17—.
2017 年 5 月 12 日，日内瓦——。

Clerval, who had watched my countenance as I read this letter, was surprised to observe the despair that succeeded the joy I at first expressed on receiving new from my friends. I threw the letter on the table, and covered my face with my hands.
当我读这封信时，克莱瓦尔一直注视着我的表情，他惊讶地发现，我在收到朋友的来信时最初表现出的喜悦之后，又出现了绝望。我把信扔在桌子上，用手捂住脸。

‘My dear Frankenstein,’ exclaimed Henry, when he perceived me weep with bitterness, ‘are you always to be unhappy? My dear friend, what has happened?’
“我亲爱的弗兰肯斯坦，”亨利看到我痛苦地哭泣，大声说道，“你总是不快乐吗？我亲爱的朋友，发生了什么事？

I motioned him to take up the letter, while I walked up and down the room in the extremest agitation. Tears also gushed from the eyes of Clerval, as he read the account of my misfortune.
我示意他拿起这封信，而我则极其激动地在房间里走来走去。当克莱瓦尔读到我的不幸经历时，他的眼里也涌出了泪水。

‘I can offer you no consolation, my friend,’ said he; ‘your disaster is irreparable. What do you intend to do?’
“我无法给你任何安慰，我的朋友，”他说。 ‘你的灾难是无法挽回的。你打算做什么？

‘To go instantly to Geneva: come with me, Henry, to order the horses.’
“立即前往日内瓦：跟我来，亨利，去订购马匹。”

During our walk, Clerval endeavoured to say a few words of consolation; he could only express his heartfelt sympathy. ‘Poor William!’ said he, dear lovely child, he now sleeps with his angel mother! Who that had seen him bright and joyous in his young beauty, but must weep over his untimely loss! To die so miserably; to feel the murderer’s grasp! How much more a murderer that could destroy radiant innocence! Poor little fellow! one only consolation have we; his friends mourn and weep, but he is at rest. The pang is over, his sufferings are at an end for ever. A sod covers his gentle form, and he knows no pain. He can no longer be a subject for pity; we must reserve that for his miserable survivors.’
在我们散步的过程中，克莱瓦尔尽力说了几句安慰的话。他只能表示衷心的同情。 “可怜的威廉！”他说，亲爱的可爱的孩子，他现在和他天使般的母亲一起睡觉！谁见过他年轻时的美丽容光焕发，却必须为他的过早逝去而哭泣！死得这么惨；感受凶手的掌握！何况是一个能够摧毁光辉纯真的凶手！可怜的小家伙！我们唯一的安慰就是；他的朋友们哀悼哭泣，但他却安息了。痛苦结束了，他的痛苦永远结束了。草皮覆盖着他温柔的身躯，他感觉不到疼痛。他不能再成为怜悯的对象；我们必须为他悲惨的幸存者保留它。

Clerval spoke thus as we hurried through the streets; the words impressed themselves on my mind and I remembered them afterwards in solitude. But now, as soon as the horses arrived, I hurried into a cabriolet, and bade farewell to my friend.
当我们匆匆穿过街道时，克莱瓦尔这样说道。这句话深深地印在我的脑海里，后来我在孤独中想起了它们。但现在，马一到，我就赶紧钻进一辆敞篷车，向我的朋友告别。

My journey was very melancholy. At first I wished to hurry on, for I longed to console and sympathise with my loved and sorrowing friends; but when I drew near my native town, I slackened my progress. I could hardly sustain the multitude of feelings that crowded into my mind. I passed through scenes familiar to my youth, but which I had not seen for nearly six years. How altered every thing might be during that time! One sudden and desolating change had taken place; but a thousand little circumstances might have by degrees worked other alterations, which, although they were done more tranquilly, might not be the less decisive. Fear overcame me; I dared no advance, dreading a thousand nameless evils that made me tremble, although I was unable to define them.
我的旅程非常忧郁。起初我想快点走，因为我渴望安慰和同情我所爱的和悲伤的朋友；但当我接近我的家乡时，我放慢了脚步。我几乎无法承受涌入我脑海的多种感觉。我看到了我年轻时熟悉的场景，但我已经有近六年没有见过了。在那段时间里，一切都发生了多么大的变化！一场突如其来、令人悲凉的变化发生了。但是，一千个小情况可能会逐渐产生其他变化，尽管这些变化进行得更加平静，但可能不会那么具有决定性。恐惧战胜了我；我不敢前进，害怕着一千种无名的邪恶，让我颤抖，尽管我无法定义它们。

I remained two days at Lausanne, in this painful state of mind. I contemplated the lake: the waters were placid; all around was calm; and the snowy mountains, ‘the palaces of nature,’ were not changed. By degrees the calm and heavenly scene restored me, and I continued my journey towards Geneva.
我在洛桑呆了两天，心情十分痛苦。我凝视着湖面：湖水平静；周围一片平静；而雪山，“自然的宫殿”，却没有改变。平静而神圣的景象逐渐让我恢复了平静，我继续前往日内瓦。

The road ran by the side of the lake, which became narrower as I approached my native town. I discovered more distinctly the black sides of Jura, and the bright summit of Mont Blanc. I wept like a child. ‘Dear mountains! my own beautiful lake! how do you welcome your wanderer? Your summits are clear; the sky and lake are blue and placid. Is this to prognosticate peace, or to mock at my unhappiness?’
路沿着湖边延伸，越接近我的家乡，路就越窄。我更清楚地发现了侏罗山的黑色侧面和勃朗峰的明亮顶峰。我哭得像个孩子。 ‘亲爱的山啊！我自己美丽的湖！你如何欢迎你的流浪者？你的顶峰是清晰的；天空和湖水蔚蓝而平静。这是在预示和平，还是在嘲笑我的不幸？

I fear, my friend, that I shall render myself tedious by dwelling on these preliminary circumstances; but they were days of comparative happiness, and I think of them with pleasure. My country, my beloved country! who but a native can tell the delight I took in again beholding thy streams, thy mountains, and, more than all, thy lovely lake!
我的朋友，我担心我会因纠缠于这些初步情况而使自己变得乏味。但那是相对幸福的日子，我很高兴地想起它们。我的祖国，我亲爱的祖国！只有本地人才能说出我再次看到你的溪流、你的山脉，尤其是你美丽的湖泊时所感受到的喜悦！

Yet, as I drew nearer home, grief and fear again overcame me. Night also closed around; and when I could hardly see the dark mountains, I felt still more gloomily. The picture appeared a vast and dim scene of evil, and I foresaw obscurely that I was destined to become the most wretched of human beings. Alas! I prophesied truly, and failed only in one single circumstance, that in all the misery I imagined and dreaded, I did not conceive the hundredth part of the anguish I was destined to endure.
然而，当我临近家时，悲伤和恐惧再次笼罩了我。夜幕也降临了；当我几乎看不到黑暗的山脉时，我的心情更加黯淡。画面中出现了一片浩瀚而昏暗的邪恶景象，我隐隐约约地预见到，我注定会成为人类中最悲惨的人。唉!我的预言是真实的，只有一种情况是失败的：在我想象和害怕的所有痛苦中，我没有想象到我注定要忍受的痛苦的百分之一。

It was completely dark when I arrived in the environs of Geneva; the gates of the town were already shut; and I was obliged to pass the night at Secheron, a village at the distance of half a league from the city. The sky was serene; and, as I was unable to rest, I resolved to visit the spot where my poor William had been murdered. As I could not pass through the town, I was obliged to cross the lake in a boat to arrive at Plainpalais. During this short voyage I saw the lightning playing on the summit of Mont Blanc in the most beautiful figures. The storm appeared to approach rapidly, and, on landing, I ascended a low hill, that I might observe its progress. It advanced; the heavens were clouded, and I soon felt the rain coming slowly in large drops, but its violence quickly increased.
当我到达日内瓦郊区时，天已经完全黑了。城门已经关闭。我不得不在距离城市半里格的一个村庄塞什隆过夜。天空很平静；由于无法休息，我决定去看看我可怜的威廉被谋杀的地方。由于无法穿过城镇，我不得不乘船过湖到达平原宫。在这次短暂的航行中，我看到了闪电在勃朗峰顶上以最美丽的身影玩耍。风暴似乎正在迅速逼近，着陆后，我爬上了一座低矮的山丘，以便观察它的进展。它进步了；天空乌云密布，我很快就感觉到雨点慢慢地落下，但雨势很快就加大了。

I quitted my seat, and walked on, although the darkness and storm increased every minute, and the thunder burst with a terrific crash over my head. It was echoed from Saleve, the Juras, and the Alps of Savoy; vivid flashes of lightning dazzled my eyes, illuminating the lake, making it appear like a vast sheet of fire; then for an instant every thing seemed of a pitchy darkness, until the eye recovered itself from the preceding flash. The storm, as is often the case in Switzerland, appeared at once in various parts of the heavens. The most violent storm hung exactly north of the town, over the part of the lake which lies between the promontory of Belrive and the village of Copet. Another storm enlightened Jura with faint flashes; and another darkened and sometimes disclosed the Mole, a peaked mountain to the east of the lake.
我离开座位，继续前行，尽管黑暗和暴风雨每分钟都在加剧，雷声在我头顶上发出可怕的撞击声。萨莱维、侏罗山和萨沃伊阿尔卑斯山也有类似的声音。鲜明的闪电使我眼花缭乱，照亮了湖面，使它看起来像一片巨大的火。有一瞬间，一切都变得一片漆黑，直到眼睛从先前的闪光中恢复过来。这场风暴就像瑞士经常发生的那样，同时出现在天空的各个地方。最猛烈的风暴袭击了该镇的正北地区，位于贝尔里夫海角和科佩特村之间的湖区。另一场风暴照亮了汝拉地区，发出微弱的闪光。另一幅图使鼹鼠山变暗，有时甚至露出来，这是湖东边的一座尖峰山。

While I watched the tempest, so beautiful yet terrific, I wandered on with a hasty step. This noble war in the sky elevated my spirits; I clasped my hands, and exclaimed aloud, ‘William, dear angel! this is thy funeral, this thy dirge!’ As I said these words, I perceived in the gloom a figure which stole from behind a clump of trees near me; I stood fixed, gazing intently: I could not be mistaken. A flash of lightning illuminated the object, and discovered its shape plainly to me; its gigantic stature, and the deformity of its aspect, more hideous than belongs to humanity, instantly informed me that it was the wretch, the filthy daemon, to whom I had given life. What did he there? Could he be (I shuddered at the conception) the murderer of my brother? No sooner did that idea cross my imagination, than I became convinced of its truth; my teeth chattered, and I was forced to lean against a tree for support. The figure passed me quickly, and I lost it in the gloom. Nothing in human shape could have destroyed the fair child. He was the murderer! I could not doubt it. The mere presence of the idea was an irresistible proof of the fact. I thought of pursuing the devil; but it would have been in vain, for another flash discovered him to me hanging among the rocks of the nearly perpendicular ascent of Mont Saleve, a hill that bounds Plainpalais on the south. He soon reached the summit, and disappeared.
我一边看着美丽又可怕的暴风雨，一边快步走着。这场崇高的天空之战振奋了我的精神；我紧握双手，大声喊道：“威廉，亲爱的天使！”这是你的葬礼，这是你的挽歌！’当我说这些话时，我在黑暗中看到一个人影从我附近的一丛树后面偷偷地走来；我定定地站着，凝视着：我不会弄错的。一道闪电照亮了那个物体，我清楚地发现了它的形状。它巨大的身躯和畸形的外表，比人类更可怕，立即告诉我，它是我赋予生命的可怜虫，肮脏的恶魔。他在那里做什么？他会不会是（一想到这个我就不寒而栗）谋杀我兄弟的凶手？这个想法一出现在我的想象中，我就确信它是真实的。我的牙齿打颤，我被迫靠在一棵树上支撑。那个身影很快就从我身边掠过，我在黑暗中迷失了方向。任何人形都无法摧毁这个美丽的孩子。他就是凶手！我无法怀疑这一点。这个想法的存在本身就是不可抗拒的事实证明。我想到去追赶魔鬼；但这是徒劳的，因为我再次一闪，发现他挂在萨莱维山几乎垂直的山坡上的岩石中，山上是普兰帕莱南边的一座山。很快他就到达了山顶，然后就消失了。

I remained motionless. The thunder ceased; but the rain still continued, and the scene was enveloped in an impenetrable darkness. I resolved in my minds the events which I had until now sought to forget: the whole train of my progress toward the creation; the appearance of the works of my own hands at my bedside; its departure. Two years had now nearly elapsed since the night on which he first received life; and was this his first crime? Alas! I had turned loose into the world a depraved wretch, whose delight was in carnage and misery; had he not murdered my brother?
我一动不动。雷声停了；但雨依然下个不停，现场笼罩在一片无法穿透的黑暗之中。我在脑海中解决了迄今为止我一直试图忘记的事件：我走向创造的整个过程；我亲手制作的作品出现在我的床边；它的离开。自从他第一次获得生命的那晚以来，已经快两年过去了。这是他第一次犯罪吗？唉!我在这个世界上变成了一个堕落的恶棍，以屠杀和痛苦为乐。他不是谋杀了我的兄弟吗？

No one can conceive the anguish I suffered during the remainder of the night, which I spent, cold and wet, in the open air. But I did not feel the inconvenience of the weather; my imagination was busy in scenes of evil and despair. I considered the being whom I had cast among mankind, and endowed with the will and power to effect purposes of horror, such as the deed which he had now done, nearly in the light of my own vampire, my own spirit let loose from the grave, and forced to destroy all that was dear to me.
没有人能想象我在寒冷潮湿的露天度过的那一夜所遭受的痛苦。但我并没有感觉到天气的不便；我的想象力充满了邪恶和绝望的场景。我思考着我在人类中投下的那个存在，他被赋予了实现恐怖目的的意志和力量，就像他现在所做的那样，几乎是在我自己的吸血鬼的光芒下，我自己的灵魂从黑暗中释放出来。坟墓，并被迫摧毁我所珍视的一切。

Day dawned; and I directed my steps towards the town. The gates were open, and I hastened to my father’s house. My first thought was to discover what I knew of the murderer, and cause instant pursuit to be made. But I paused when I reflected on the story that I had to tell. A being whom I myself had formed, and endued with life, had met me at midnight among the precipices of an inaccessible mountain. I remembered also the nervous fever with which I had been seized just at the time that I dated my creation, and which would give an air of delirium to a tale otherwise so utterly improbable. I well knew that if any other had communicated such a relation to me, I should have looked upon it as the ravings of insanity. Besides, the strange nature of the animal would elude all pursuit, even if I were so far credited as to persuade my relatives to commence it. And then of what use would be pursuit? Who could arrest a creature capable of scaling the overhanging sides of Mont Saleve? These reflections determined me, and I resolved to remain silent.
天亮了；我朝着城镇走去。门开了，我赶紧赶到父亲家。我的第一个想法是查明我对凶手的了解，并立即展开追捕。但当我思考我必须讲述的故事时，我停了下来。一个我亲手创造并赋予生命的存在，在午夜时分在一座人迹罕至的山峰的悬崖边与我相遇。我还记得在我为我的创作定下日期时，我感到紧张的狂热，这会给一个完全不可能的故事带来一种谵妄的气氛。我很清楚，如果有其他人向我表达了这样的关系，我一定会把它视为精神错乱的胡言乱语。此外，这种动物的奇怪本性将无法追捕，即使我被认为说服了我的亲戚开始这样做。那么追求又有什么用呢？谁能逮捕能够攀爬萨利夫山悬垂山壁的生物？这些想法决定了我，我决定保持沉默。

It was about five in the morning when I entered my father’s house. I told the servants not to disturb the family, and went into the library to attend their usual hour of rising.
当我走进父亲家时，已经是凌晨五点左右了。我告诉仆人不要打扰家人，然后走进图书馆参加他们通常的起床时间。

Six years had elapsed, passed in a dream but for one indelible trace, and I stood in the same place where I had last embraced my father before my departure for Ingolstadt. Beloved and venerable parent! He still remained to me. I gazed on the picture of my mother, which stood over the mantel-piece. It was an historical subject, painted at my father’s desire, and represented Caroline Beaufort in an agony of despair, kneeling by the coffin of her dead father. Her garb was rustic, and her cheek pale; but there was an air of dignity and beauty, that hardly permitted the sentiment of pity. Below this picture was a miniature of William; and my tears flowed when I looked upon it. While I was thus engaged, Ernest entered: he had heard me arrive, and hastened to welcome me: ‘Welcome, my dearest Victor,’ said he. ‘Ah! I wish you had come three months ago, and then you would have found us all joyous and delighted. You come to us now to share a misery which nothing can alleviate; yet your presence will, I hope, revive our father, who seems sinking under his misfortune; and your persuasions will induce poor Elizabeth to cease her vain and tormenting self-accusations.—Poor William! he was our darling and our pride!’
六年过去了，在梦中流逝，却留下了不可磨灭的痕迹，我站在前往因戈尔施塔特之前最后一次拥抱父亲的地方。亲爱的、可敬的父母！他仍然留在我身边。我凝视着壁炉架上方母亲的照片。这是一个历史题材，是根据我父亲的意愿画的，描绘了卡罗琳·博福特跪在她死去父亲的棺材旁的绝望痛苦。她的衣着朴素，脸颊苍白。但有一种高贵而美丽的气质，让人几乎不产生怜悯之情。这张照片下面是威廉的缩影；当我看到它时，我的眼泪流了下来。当我正忙着的时候，欧内斯特进来了：他听到我到达了，赶紧欢迎我：“欢迎，我最亲爱的维克多，”他说。 '啊！我希望你三个月前就来，那样你就会发现我们都充满欢乐和欣喜。你现在来找我们，是为了分担任何事情都无法减轻的痛苦；然而，我希望你的出现能让我们的父亲复活，他似乎正在遭受不幸。你的劝说将使可怜的伊丽莎白停止她徒劳的、折磨人的自责。——可怜的威廉！他是我们的宠儿，我们的骄傲！”

Tears, unrestrained, fell from my brother’s eyes; a sense of mortal agony crept over my frame. Before, I had only imagined the wretchedness of my desolated home; the reality came on me as a new, and a not less terrible, disaster. I tried to calm Ernest; I enquired more minutely concerning my father, and her I named my cousin.
泪水不受控制地从哥哥的眼中滑落；一种致命的痛苦感爬上了我的全身。以前，我只是想象自己荒凉的家是多么的悲惨；现实对我来说是一场新的、同样可怕的灾难。我试图让欧内斯特平静下来；我更详细地询问了我父亲的情况，我把她命名为我的表弟。

‘She most of all,’ said Ernest, ‘requires consolation; she accused herself of having caused the death of my brother, and that made her very wretched. But since the murderer has been discovered—‘
“她最需要的，”欧内斯特说，“需要安慰；她需要安慰。”她指责自己造成了我哥哥的死亡，这让她非常难过。但既然凶手已经被发现——”

‘The murderer discovered! Good God! how can that be? who could attempt to pursue him? It is impossible; one might as well try to overtake the winds, or confine a mountain-stream with a straw. I saw him too; he was free last night!’
‘凶手发现了！天哪！怎么可能？谁能试图追捕他？是不可能的;不妨追风，或用一根稻草限制山涧。我也看到了他；他昨晚有空！”

‘I do not know what you mean,’ replied my brother, in accents of wonder, ‘but to us the discovery we have made completes our misery. No one would believe it at first; and even now Elizabeth will not be convinced, notwithstanding all the evidence. Indeed, who would credit that Justine Moritz, who was so amiable, and fond of all the family, could suddenly become so capable of so frightful, so appalling a crime?’
“我不明白你的意思，”我哥哥用惊奇的语气回答道，“但对我们来说，我们的发现结束了我们的痛苦。一开始没有人相信；即使现在，尽管有所有证据，伊丽莎白仍不会相信。事实上，谁会相信贾斯汀·莫里茨，一个如此和蔼可亲、热爱整个家庭的人，会突然变得如此有能力犯下如此可怕、如此令人震惊的罪行呢？

‘Justine Moritz! Poor, poor girl, is she the accused? But it is wrongfully; every one knows that; no one believes it, surely, Ernest?’
“贾斯汀·莫里茨！可怜的女孩，她是被告吗？但这是错误的；每个人都知道这一点；肯定没有人相信这一点，欧内斯特？

‘No one did at first; but several circumstances came out, that have almost forced conviction upon us; and her own behaviour has been so confused, as to add to the evidence of facts a weight that, I fear, leaves no hope for doubt. But she will be tried to-day, and you will then hear all.’
“一开始没人这么做；但出现了一些情况，几乎迫使我们确信无疑。而她自己的行为却如此混乱，以至于给事实证据增加了分量，我担心，没有任何怀疑的希望。但她今天将受到审判，然后你就会听到一切。”

He then related that, the morning on which the murder of poor William had been discovered, Justine had been taken ill, and confined to her bed for several days. During this interval, one of the servants, happening to examine the apparel she had worn on the night of the murder, had discovered in her pocket the picture of my mother, which had been judged to be the temptation of the murderer. The servant instantly showed it to one of the others, who, without saying a word to any of the family, went to a magistrate; and, upon their deposition, Justine was apprehended. On being charged with the fact, the poor girl confirmed the suspicion in a great measure by her extreme confusion of manner. This was a strange tale, but it did not shake my faith; and I replied earnestly, ‘You are all mistaken; I know the murderer. Justine, poor, good Justine, is innocent.’
然后他说，可怜的威廉被谋杀的那天早上，贾斯汀病了，在床上躺了好几天。在此期间，一名仆人碰巧检查了她谋杀当晚所穿的衣服，在她的口袋里发现了我母亲的照片，这被认为是凶手的诱惑。仆人立即把它拿给其中一个人看，后者没有对家里的任何人说一句话，就去找了一位地方法官。在他们作证后，贾斯汀被捕。当这个可怜的女孩被指控这一事实时，她极其混乱的举止在很大程度上证实了这一怀疑。这是一个奇怪的故事，但它并没有动摇我的信念；我郑重地回答：“你们都错了；我认识凶手。贾斯汀，可怜的善良的贾斯汀，是无辜的。

At that instant my father entered. I saw unhappiness deeply impressed on his countenance, but he endeavoured to welcome me cheerfully; and, after we had exchanged our mournful greeting, would have introduced some other topic than that of our disaster, had not Ernest exclaimed, ‘Good God, papa! Victor says that he knows who was the murderer of poor William.’
就在这时，我父亲进来了。我看到他脸上满是不快，但他努力高兴地欢迎我。在我们交换了悲伤的问候之后，如果欧内斯特没有惊呼：“天哪，爸爸！维克多说他知道谁是杀害可怜的威廉的凶手。

‘We do also, unfortunately,’ replied my father, ‘for indeed I had rather have been for ever ignorant than have discovered so much depravity and ungratitude in one I valued so highly.’
“不幸的是，我们也确实如此，”我父亲回答道，“因为事实上，我宁愿永远无知，也不愿在我如此珍视的人身上发现如此多的堕落和忘恩负义。”

‘My dear father, you are mistaken; Justine is innocent.’
‘我亲爱的父亲，你错了；贾斯汀是无辜的。

‘If she is, God forbid that she should suffer as guilty. She is to be tried to-day, and I hope, I sincerely hope, that she will be acquitted.’
“如果她是，上帝禁止她承受有罪的痛苦。她今天将接受审判，我希望，我真诚地希望，她会被无罪释放。

This speech calmed me. I was firmly convinced in my own mind that Justine, and indeed every human being, was guiltless of this murder. I had no fear, therefore, that any circumstantial evidence could be brought forward strong enough to convict her. My tale was not one to announce publicly; its astounding horror would be looked upon as madness by the vulgar. Did any one indeed exist, except I, the creator, who would believe, unless his senses convinced him, in the existence of the living monument of presumption and rash ignorance which I had let loose upon the world?
这番话让我平静下来。我内心坚信贾斯汀以及每个人都对这起谋杀案无罪。因此，我并不担心任何足够有力的间接证据都会给她定罪。我的故事不是一个可以公开宣布的故事；其令人震惊的恐怖会被普通人视为疯狂。除了我这个造物主之外，是否真的存在任何人，除非他的感官说服了他，否则他会相信我向世界释放的狂妄和鲁莽无知的活纪念碑的存在？

We were soon joined by Elizabeth. Time had altered her since I last beheld her; it had endowed her with loveliness surpassing the beauty of her childish years. There was the same candour, the same vivacity, but it was allied to an expression more full of sensibility and intellect. She welcomed me with the greatest affection. ‘Your arrival, my dear cousin,’ said she, ‘fills me with hope. You perhaps will find some means to justify my poor guiltless Justine. Alas! who is safe, if she be convicted of crime? I rely on her innocence as certainly as I do upon my own. Our misfortune is doubly hard to us; we have not only lost that lovely darling boy, but this poor girl, whom I sincerely love, is to be torn away by even a worse fate. If she is condemned, I never shall know joy more. But she will not, I am sure she will not; and then I shall be happy again, even after the sad death of my little William.’
伊丽莎白很快也加入了我们。自从我上次见到她以来，时间已经改变了她。它赋予了她超越孩童时期的美丽的可爱。同样的坦率，同样的活泼，但它的表情更加充满感性和智慧。她以最深情的欢迎我。 “你的到来，我亲爱的表弟，”她说，“让我充满了希望。”你也许会找到一些方法来为我可怜的无辜的贾斯汀辩护。唉!如果她被判有罪，谁是安全的？我信赖她的纯真，正如我信赖我自己的纯真一样。我们的不幸对我们来说是加倍的痛苦；我们不仅失去了那个可爱的宝贝男孩，而且这个我真心爱着的可怜的女孩，也将被更糟糕的命运夺走。如果她受到谴责，我将永远不会感到更多的快乐。但她不会，我确信她不会；然后我就会再次快乐，即使是在我的小威廉不幸去世之后。”

‘She is innocent, my Elizabeth,’ said I, ‘and that shall be proved; fear nothing, but let your spirits be cheered by the assurance of her acquittal.’
“她是无辜的，我的伊丽莎白，”我说，“这一点将会得到证明；不要害怕，但让你的精神因她无罪释放的保证而振奋。

‘How kind and generous you are! every one else believes in her guilt, and that made me wretched, for I knew that it was impossible: and to see every one else prejudiced in so deadly a manner rendered me hopeless and despairing.’ She wept.
‘你多么善良、多么慷慨啊！其他人都相信她有罪，这让我很痛苦，因为我知道这是不可能的：看到其他人都以如此致命的方式受到偏见，让我感到绝望和绝望。”她哭了。

‘Dearest niece,’ said my father, ‘dry your tears. If she is, as you believe, innocent, rely on the justice of our laws, and the activity with which I shall prevent the slightest shadow of partiality.’
“亲爱的侄女，”我父亲说，“擦干你的眼泪吧。”如果她如你所相信的那样是无辜的，请相信我们法律的公正性，以及我将采取的行动，防止一丝一毫的偏袒。

Chapter 8
第8章

We passed a few sad hours until eleven o’clock, when the trial was to commence. My father and the rest of the family being obliged to attend as witnesses, I accompanied them to the court. During the whole of this wretched mockery of justice I suffered living torture. It was to be decided whether the result of my curiosity and lawless devices would cause the death of two of my fellow beings: one a smiling babe full of innocence and joy, the other far more dreadfully murdered, with every aggravation of infamy that could make the murder memorable in horror. Justine also was a girl of merit and possessed qualities which promised to render her life happy; now all was to be obliterated in an ignominious grave, and I the cause! A thousand times rather would I have confessed myself guilty of the crime ascribed to Justine, but I was absent when it was committed, and such a declaration would have been considered as the ravings of a madman and would not have exculpated her who suffered through me.
我们度过了几个悲伤的小时，直到十一点，审判即将开始。由于父亲和其他家人必须出庭作证，我陪同他们来到了法庭。在这整个对正义的可悲的嘲笑中，我遭受了活生生的折磨。待决定的是，我的好奇心和不法手段的结果是否会导致我的两个同胞的死亡：一个是一个充满天真和欢乐的微笑婴儿，另一个则更加可怕地被谋杀，伴随着每一种加重的恶名，可能会使令人难忘的恐怖谋杀案。贾斯汀也是一位有才华的女孩，她所拥有的品质有望让她的生活变得幸福。现在一切都将被埋葬在可耻的坟墓里，而我就是罪魁祸首！我宁愿千百次地承认自己犯有贾斯汀所犯的罪行，但犯罪时我不在场，这样的声明会被认为是疯子的胡言乱语，不会为因我而受苦的她开脱。 。

The appearance of Justine was calm. She was dressed in mourning, and her countenance, always engaging, was rendered, by the solemnity of her feelings, exquisitely beautiful. Yet she appeared confident in innocence and did not tremble, although gazed on and execrated by thousands, for all the kindness which her beauty might otherwise have excited was obliterated in the minds of the spectators by the imagination of the enormity she was supposed to have committed. She was tranquil, yet her tranquillity was evidently constrained; and as her confusion had before been adduced as a proof of her guilt, she worked up her mind to an appearance of courage. When she entered the court she threw her eyes round it and quickly discovered where we were seated. A tear seemed to dim her eye when she saw us, but she quickly recovered herself, and a look of sorrowful affection seemed to attest her utter guiltlessness.
贾斯汀的表情很平静。她穿着丧服，她的面容总是迷人，由于她的感情庄严，显得格外美丽。然而，尽管她受到成千上万人的注视和咒骂，但她却显得对纯真充满信心，并没有颤抖，因为她的美丽原本可能激发的所有善意，都被观众心中对她应该犯下的滔天罪行的想象所抹杀。 。她很平静，但她的平静显然是压抑的；由于她的困惑之前曾被作为她有罪的证据，所以她鼓起勇气表现出勇气。当她进入法庭时，她环顾四周，很快就发现了我们坐在哪里。当她看到我们的时候，似乎有一滴泪水模糊了她的眼睛，但她很快就恢复了平静，一脸悲痛的表情似乎证明了她完全的无辜。

The trial began, and after the advocate against her had stated the charge, several witnesses were called. Several strange facts combined against her, which might have staggered anyone who had not such proof of her innocence as I had. She had been out the whole of the night on which the murder had been committed and towards morning had been perceived by a market-woman not far from the spot where the body of the murdered child had been afterwards found. The woman asked her what she did there, but she looked very strangely and only returned a confused and unintelligible answer. She returned to the house about eight o’clock, and when one inquired where she had passed the night, she replied that she had been looking for the child and demanded earnestly if anything had been heard concerning him. When shown the body, she fell into violent hysterics and kept her bed for several days. The picture was then produced which the servant had found in her pocket; and when Elizabeth, in a faltering voice, proved that it was the same which, an hour before the child had been missed, she had placed round his neck, a murmur of horror and indignation filled the court.
审判开始，在对她不利的辩护人提出指控后，传唤了几名证人。几个奇怪的事实结合起来对她不利，这可能会让任何没有像我这样能证明她清白的人感到震惊。谋杀案发生当晚，她整个晚上都在外面，到了早上，一名市场妇女发现了她，她距离后来发现被害儿童尸体的地点不远。女人问她在那里做什么，但她的表情很奇怪，只给出了一个困惑且难以理解的答案。她大约八点钟回到家，当有人问她在哪里过夜时，她回答说她一直在寻找孩子，并恳切地询问是否有关于他的任何消息。当尸体被展示时，她陷入了剧烈的歇斯底里，并在床上躺了好几天。然后仆人在她的口袋里发现了那张照片。当伊丽莎白用结结巴巴的声音证明，正是她在孩子失踪前一小时挂在他脖子上的那个东西时，法庭上充满了恐惧和愤怒的低语声。

Justine was called on for her defence. As the trial had proceeded, her countenance had altered. Surprise, horror, and misery were strongly expressed. Sometimes she struggled with her tears, but when she was desired to plead, she collected her powers and spoke in an audible although variable voice.
贾斯汀被传唤为她辩护。随着审判的进行，她的脸色发生了变化。惊讶、恐惧和痛苦都被强烈地表达出来。有时她强忍着泪水，但当需要她恳求时，她就会集中力量，用一种可听见但变化的声音说话。

‘God knows,’ she said, ‘how entirely I am innocent. But I do not pretend that my protestations should acquit me; I rest my innocence on a plain and simple explanation of the facts which have been adduced against me, and I hope the character I have always borne will incline my judges to a favourable interpretation where any circumstance appears doubtful or suspicious.’
“天知道，”她说，“我是多么无辜。”但我并不假装我的抗议就可以宣告我无罪；我的清白基于对针对我的事实的简单明了的解释，我希望我一直以来的性格将使我的法官在任何看起来可疑或可疑的情况下做出有利的解释。

She then related that, by the permission of Elizabeth, she had passed the evening of the night on which the murder had been committed at the house of an aunt at Chene, a village situated at about a league from Geneva. On her return, at about nine o’clock, she met a man who asked her if she had seen anything of the child who was lost. She was alarmed by this account and passed several hours in looking for him, when the gates of Geneva were shut, and she was forced to remain several hours of the night in a barn belonging to a cottage, being unwilling to call up the inhabitants, to whom she was well known. Most of the night she spent here watching; towards morning she believed that she slept for a few minutes; some steps disturbed her, and she awoke. It was dawn, and she quitted her asylum, that she might again endeavour to find my brother. If she had gone near the spot where his body lay, it was without her knowledge. That she had been bewildered when questioned by the market-woman was not surprising, since she had passed a sleepless night and the fate of poor William was yet uncertain. Concerning the picture she could give no account.
然后她说，在伊丽莎白的允许下，她在切内的一位阿姨家里度过了谋杀案发生的那天晚上，切内是一个距离日内瓦大约一里格的村庄。大约九点钟她回来时，遇到了一个男人，他问她是否看到了失踪的孩子。她对这个说法感到震惊，花了几个小时寻找他，当时日内瓦的大门关闭了，她被迫在一个小屋的谷仓里呆了几个小时，不愿意打电话给居民，她对他们来说是众所周知的。整个晚上她大部分时间都在这里观看。到了早上，她相信自己睡了几分钟。一些脚步声打扰了她，她醒了。天亮了，她离开了庇护所，以便再次努力寻找我的兄弟。即使她靠近了他尸体所在的地方，也是在她不知情的情况下。当女商人询问时，她感到困惑，这并不奇怪，因为她已经度过了一个不眠之夜，而可怜的威廉的命运仍然不确定。关于那张照片，她无法解释。

‘I know,’ continued the unhappy victim, ‘how heavily and fatally this one circumstance weighs against me, but I have no power of explaining it; and when I have expressed my utter ignorance, I am only left to conjecture concerning the probabilities by which it might have been placed in my pocket. But here also I am checked. I believe that I have no enemy on earth, and none surely would have been so wicked as to destroy me wantonly. Did the murderer place it there? I know of no opportunity afforded him for so doing; or, if I had, why should he have stolen the jewel, to part with it again so soon?
“我知道，”不幸的受害者继续说道，“这种情况对我来说是多么沉重和致命，但我没有能力解释它；当我表示我完全无知时，我只能猜测它可能被放入我口袋的可能性。但在这里我也受到了检查。我相信我在世上没有敌人，也不会有人邪恶到肆意毁灭我。是凶手把它放在那里的吗？据我所知，他没有机会这么做。或者，如果我有的话，他为什么要偷走这颗宝石，这么快又把它放弃呢？

‘I commit my cause to the justice of my judges, yet I see no room for hope. I beg permission to have a few witnesses examined concerning my character, and if their testimony shall not overweigh my supposed guilt, I must be condemned, although I would pledge my salvation on my innocence.’
“我将我的诉讼交给法官的正义，但我看不到希望的余地。我恳求允许让一些证人对我的品格进行审查，如果他们的证词不能压倒我所谓的罪行，我就必须被定罪，尽管我会保证我的清白得救。

Several witnesses were called who had known her for many years, and they spoke well of her; but fear and hatred of the crime of which they supposed her guilty rendered them timorous and unwilling to come forward. Elizabeth saw even this last resource, her excellent dispositions and irreproachable conduct, about to fail the accused, when, although violently agitated, she desired permission to address the court.
传唤了几位认识她多年的证人，他们都对她赞不绝口。但对他们认为她犯下的罪行的恐惧和仇恨使他们胆怯，不愿挺身而出。伊丽莎白甚至看到了这最后的资源，她出色的性格和无可挑剔的行为，即将让被告失望，尽管她非常激动，但她希望获得在法庭上发言的许可。

‘I am,’ said she, ‘the cousin of the unhappy child who was murdered, or rather his sister, for I was educated by and have lived with his parents ever since and even long before his birth. It may therefore be judged indecent in me to come forward on this occasion, but when I see a fellow creature about to perish through the cowardice of her pretended friends, I wish to be allowed to speak, that I may say what I know of her character. I am well acquainted with the accused. I have lived in the same house with her, at one time for five and at another for nearly two years. During all that period she appeared to me the most amiable and benevolent of human creatures. She nursed Madame Frankenstein, my aunt, in her last illness, with the greatest affection and care and afterwards attended her own mother during a tedious illness, in a manner that excited the admiration of all who knew her, after which she again lived in my uncle’s house, where she was beloved by all the family. She was warmly attached to the child who is now dead and acted towards him like a most affectionate mother. For my own part, I do not hesitate to say that, notwithstanding all the evidence produced against her, I believe and rely on her perfect innocence. She had no temptation for such an action; as to the bauble on which the chief proof rests, if she had earnestly desired it, I should have willingly given it to her, so much do I esteem and value her.’
“我是，”她说，“那个被谋杀的不幸孩子的表弟，或者更确切地说，是他的妹妹，因为从那时起，甚至在他出生之前很久，我就受到他父母的教育，并与他的父母住在一起。因此，在这种情况下，我站出来可能会被认为是不雅的，但当我看到一个同伴即将因她假装朋友的怯懦而灭亡时，我希望被允许发言，以便我可以说出我对她的了解。特点。我与被告很熟悉。我和她住在同一所房子里，一次住了五年，另一次住了近两年。在那段时间里，她在我看来是最和蔼可亲、最仁慈的人类。她在我的姨妈弗兰肯斯坦夫人临终时，以最大的爱和关怀照顾了她，后来在她自己的母亲生病期间，她以一种令所有认识她的人都钦佩的方式照顾她，之后她又住在我的家里。舅舅家，她受到全家人的喜爱。她对已经死去的孩子充满了热情，对待他就像一位最慈爱的母亲。就我个人而言，我毫不犹豫地说，尽管有所有针对她的证据，我相信并相信她是完全清白的。她没有兴趣做出这样的举动；她没有兴趣。至于主要证据所依赖的小玩意，如果她真心想要它，我会心甘情愿地把它给她，我非常尊重和重视她。

A murmur of approbation followed Elizabeth’s simple and powerful appeal, but it was excited by her generous interference, and not in favour of poor Justine, on whom the public indignation was turned with renewed violence, charging her with the blackest ingratitude. She herself wept as Elizabeth spoke, but she did not answer. My own agitation and anguish was extreme during the whole trial. I believed in her innocence; I knew it. Could the demon who had (I did not for a minute doubt) murdered my brother also in his hellish sport have betrayed the innocent to death and ignominy? I could not sustain the horror of my situation, and when I perceived that the popular voice and the countenances of the judges had already condemned my unhappy victim, I rushed out of the court in agony. The tortures of the accused did not equal mine; she was sustained by innocence, but the fangs of remorse tore my bosom and would not forgo their hold.
伊丽莎白简单而有力的呼吁之后，响起了一片赞同声，但她的慷慨干涉却让人们兴奋不已，而不是支持可怜的贾斯汀，公众的愤慨又转向了暴力，指责她忘恩负义。伊丽莎白说话时，她自己也哭了，但她没有回答。在整个审判过程中，我自己的焦躁和痛苦是极度的。我相信她是清白的；我就知道。那个在他的地狱般的游戏中也谋杀了我兄弟的恶魔（我一分钟都没有怀疑）是否会背叛无辜者，导致死亡和耻辱？我无法忍受自己处境的恐怖，当我意识到公众的声音和法官的表情已经谴责了我不幸的受害者时，我痛苦地冲出了法庭。被告所受的酷刑并不等同于我；她的纯真支撑着她，但悔恨的尖牙撕裂了我的胸怀，不肯放弃。

I passed a night of unmingled wretchedness. In the morning I went to the court; my lips and throat were parched. I dared not ask the fatal question, but I was known, and the officer guessed the cause of my visit. The ballots had been thrown; they were all black, and Justine was condemned.
我在极度悲惨中度过了一个夜晚。早上我去了法庭；我的嘴唇和喉咙很干。我不敢问这个致命的问题，但我是知道的，军官猜到了我来访的原因。选票已经投出；他们都是黑人，贾斯汀受到了谴责。

I cannot pretend to describe what I then felt. I had before experienced sensations of horror, and I have endeavoured to bestow upon them adequate expressions, but words cannot convey an idea of the heart-sickening despair that I then endured. The person to whom I addressed myself added that Justine had already confessed her guilt. ‘That evidence,’ he observed, ‘was hardly required in so glaring a case, but I am glad of it, and, indeed, none of our judges like to condemn a criminal upon circumstantial evidence, be it ever so decisive.’
我无法假装描述我当时的感受。我曾经经历过恐怖的感觉，我也曾尽力给予它们足够的表达，但言语无法表达我当时所承受的令人心痛的绝望。我的谈话对象补充说，贾斯汀已经承认了自己的罪行。 “在如此引人注目的案件中，几乎不需要这些证据，但我对此感到高兴，事实上，我们的法官没有一个愿意根据间接证据来定罪罪犯，无论它是如此决定性。”

This was strange and unexpected intelligence; what could it mean? Had my eyes deceived me? And was I really as mad as the whole world would believe me to be if I disclosed the object of my suspicions? I hastened to return home, and Elizabeth eagerly demanded the result.
这是奇怪且出乎意料的情报；这意味着什么？难道是我的眼睛欺骗了我？如果我透露了我的怀疑对象，我真的会像全世界相信的那样疯狂吗？我赶紧回家，伊丽莎白急切地询问结果。

‘My cousin,’ replied I, ‘it is decided as you may have expected; all judges had rather that ten innocent should suffer than that one guilty should escape. But she has confessed.’
“我的表弟，”我回答道，“这件事正如你所预料的那样；所有法官都宁愿让十个无辜者受苦，也不愿让一个有罪者逃脱。但她已经承认了。

This was a dire blow to poor Elizabeth, who had relied with firmness upon Justine’s innocence. ‘Alas!’ said she. ‘How shall I ever again believe in human goodness? Justine, whom I loved and esteemed as my sister, how could she put on those smiles of innocence only to betray? Her mild eyes seemed incapable of any severity or guile, and yet she has committed a murder.’
这对可怜的伊丽莎白来说是一个沉重的打击，她一直坚信贾斯汀的清白。 “唉！”她说。 ‘我怎样才能再次相信人类的善良呢？贾斯汀，我视如妹妹一样疼爱、尊敬的人，她怎么能装着天真无邪的笑容，却要背叛呢？她温和的眼神似乎没有任何严厉或狡诈，但她却犯了谋杀罪。

Soon after we heard that the poor victim had expressed a desire to see my cousin. My father wished her not to go but said that he left it to her own judgment and feelings to decide. ‘Yes,’ said Elizabeth, ‘I will go, although she is guilty; and you, Victor, shall accompany me; I cannot go alone.’ The idea of this visit was torture to me, yet I could not refuse.
不久后，我们听说这位可怜的受害者表达了想见见我表弟的愿望。我父亲希望她不要去，但说他让她自己的判断和感受来决定。 “是的，”伊丽莎白说，“尽管她有罪，我还是会去。”你，维克多，将陪伴我；我不能一个人去。’这次访问的想法对我来说是一种折磨，但我无法拒绝。

We entered the gloomy prison chamber and beheld Justine sitting on some straw at the farther end; her hands were manacled, and her head rested on her knees. She rose on seeing us enter; and when we were left alone with her, she threw herself at the feet of Elizabeth, weeping bitterly. My cousin wept also.
我们走进阴暗的牢房，看到贾斯汀坐在远端的稻草上。她的双手被戴上手铐，头枕在膝盖上。看到我们进来，她站了起来。当只剩下我们和她在一起时，她扑倒在伊丽莎白脚下，痛哭起来。我表弟也哭了。

‘Oh, Justine!’ said she. ‘Why did you rob me of my last consolation? I relied on your innocence, and although I was then very wretched, I was not so miserable as I am now.’
“哦，贾斯汀！”她说。 ‘你为什么要夺走我最后的安慰？我仗着你的清白，虽然当时很可怜，但也没有现在这么惨。”

‘And do you also believe that I am so very, very wicked? Do you also join with my enemies to crush me, to condemn me as a murderer?’ Her voice was suffocated with sobs.
‘你也相信我是那么非常非常邪恶吗？你也和我的敌人一起来镇压我，谴责我是杀人犯吗？”她的声音充满了抽泣。

‘Rise, my poor girl,’ said Elizabeth; ‘why do you kneel, if you are innocent? I am not one of your enemies, I believed you guiltless, notwithstanding every evidence, until I heard that you had yourself declared your guilt. That report, you say, is false; and be assured, dear Justine, that nothing can shake my confidence in you for a moment, but your own confession.’
“站起来，我可怜的女孩，”伊丽莎白说。 ‘如果你是无辜的，为什么要跪下？我不是你的敌人之一，尽管有一切证据，我仍然相信你无罪，直到我听说你自己宣布有罪。你说那份报告是假的；请放心，亲爱的贾斯汀，除了你自己的坦白，没有什么能暂时动摇我对你的信心。”

‘I did confess, but I confessed a lie. I confessed, that I might obtain absolution; but now that falsehood lies heavier at my heart than all my other sins. The God of heaven forgive me! Ever since I was condemned, my confessor has besieged me; he threatened and menaced, until I almost began to think that I was the monster that he said I was. He threatened excommunication and hell fire in my last moments if I continued obdurate. Dear lady, I had none to support me; all looked on me as a wretch doomed to ignominy and perdition. What could I do? In an evil hour I subscribed to a lie; and now only am I truly miserable.’
“我确实承认了，但我承认了一个谎言。我坦白了，这样我就可以得到赦免；但现在，谎言比我所有其他的罪孽更重地压在我心里。天上的神饶恕我吧！自从我被定罪以来，我的忏悔神父就围攻着我；他威胁又威胁，直到我几乎开始认为我就是他所说的怪物。他威胁说，如果我继续顽固不化，他就会在我生命的最后一刻将我逐出教会并施以地狱之火。亲爱的女士，我没有人支持我；所有人都认为我是一个注定要受耻辱和毁灭的可怜虫。我能做什么？在一个邪恶的时刻，我承认了一个谎言；现在我才真正感到痛苦。

She paused, weeping, and then continued, ‘I thought with horror, my sweet lady, that you should believe your Justine, whom your blessed aunt had so highly honoured, and whom you loved, was a creature capable of a crime which none but the devil himself could have perpetrated. Dear William! dearest blessed child! I soon shall see you again in heaven, where we shall all he happy; and that consoles me, going as I am to suffer ignominy and death.’
她停了下来，哭泣着，然后继续说：“我惊恐地想，我可爱的女士，你应该相信你的贾斯汀，你受祝福的姨妈如此高度尊敬，你所爱的人，是一个有能力犯罪的人，只有她才能犯罪。”魔鬼本人也可能作恶。亲爱的威廉！最亲爱的幸福的孩子！我很快就会在天堂再次见到你，在那里我们都会幸福；这让我感到安慰，因为我将承受耻辱和死亡。

‘Oh, Justine! Forgive me for having for one moment distrusted you. Why did you confess? But do not mourn, dear girl. Do not fear. I will proclaim, I will prove your innocence. I will melt the stony hearts of your enemies by my tears and prayers. You shall not die! You, my playfellow, my companion, my sister, perish on the scaffold! No! No! I never could survive so horrible a misfortune.’
哦，贾斯汀！请原谅我有一瞬间不信任你。你为什么要坦白？但不要哀悼，亲爱的女孩。不要害怕。我会宣布，我会证明你的清白。我会用我的眼泪和祈祷来融化你们敌人的铁石心肠。你不会死！你，我的玩伴，我的同伴，我的妹妹，死在断头台上吧！不！不！我永远无法从如此可怕的不幸中幸存下来。

Justine shook her head mournfully. ‘I do not fear to die,’ she said; ‘that pang is past. God raises my weakness and gives me courage to endure the worst. I leave a sad and bitter world; and if you remember me and think of me as of one unjustly condemned, I am resigned to the fate awaiting me. Learn from me, dear lady, to submit in patience to the will of heaven!’
贾斯汀悲伤地摇摇头。 “我不怕死，”她说。 ‘那种痛苦已经过去了。上帝激发了我的弱点，并给了我勇气去忍受最坏的情况。我离开悲伤苦涩的世界；如果你还记得我，并认为我是一个受到不公正谴责的人，那么我就接受了等待着我的命运。亲爱的女士，向我学习，耐心地服从上天的旨意！

During this conversation I had retired to a corner of the prison room, where I could conceal the horrid anguish that possessed me. Despair! Who dared talk of that? The poor victim, who on the morrow was to pass the awful boundary between life and death, felt not, as I did, such deep and bitter agony. I gnashed my teeth and ground them together, uttering a groan that came from my inmost soul. Justine started. When she saw who it was, she approached me and said, ‘Dear sir, you are very kind to visit me; you, I hope, do not believe that I am guilty?’
在这次谈话中，我退到了牢房的一个角落，在那里我可以掩饰我内心的可怕痛苦。绝望！谁还敢说这个？这位可怜的受害者明天就要跨过生与死之间可怕的界限，但他不像我那样感受到如此深沉而痛苦的痛苦。我咬牙切齿，发出灵魂深处的呻吟。贾斯汀开始了。当她看到是谁时，她走过来对我说：‘亲爱的先生，您能来拜访我真是太好了；我希望你不相信我有罪？

I could not answer. ‘No, Justine,’ said Elizabeth; ‘he is more convinced of your innocence than I was, for even when he heard that you had confessed, he did not credit it.’
我无法回答。 “不，贾斯汀，”伊丽莎白说。 “他比我更相信你的清白，因为即使他听说你已经认罪，他也不相信。”

‘I truly thank him. In these last moments I feel the sincerest gratitude towards those who think of me with kindness. How sweet is the affection of others to such a wretch as I am! It removes more than half my misfortune, and I feel as if I could die in peace now that my innocence is acknowledged by you, dear lady, and your cousin.’
‘我真的很感谢他。在这最后的时刻，我对那些善意地看待我的人表示最诚挚的谢意。别人对我这样一个可怜虫的感情是多么甜蜜啊！它消除了我一半以上的不幸，既然你、亲爱的女士和你的表弟承认了我的清白，我感觉自己好像可以平静地死去了。

Thus the poor sufferer tried to comfort others and herself. She indeed gained the resignation she desired. But I, the true murderer, felt the never-dying worm alive in my bosom, which allowed of no hope or consolation. Elizabeth also wept and was unhappy, but hers also was the misery of innocence, which, like a cloud that passes over the fair moon, for a while hides but cannot tarnish its brightness. Anguish and despair had penetrated into the core of my heart; I bore a hell within me which nothing could extinguish. We stayed several hours with Justine, and it was with great difficulty that Elizabeth could tear herself away. ‘I wish,’ cried she, ‘that I were to die with you; I cannot live in this world of misery.’
因此，这位可怜的病人试图安慰别人和她自己。她确实得到了她想要的辞职。但我，这个真正的凶手，却感觉到那条不死的虫子还活着，在我的怀里，这让我没有任何希望或安慰。伊丽莎白也哭了，也很伤心，但她的痛苦也是纯真的，就像月亮上空的一片云，暂时隐藏但不能玷污它的亮度。痛苦和绝望已经渗透到我的心底；我内心深处有一个无法熄灭的地狱。我们和贾斯汀待了几个小时，伊丽莎白好不容易才离开。 “我希望，”她喊道，“我希望能和你一起死；我不能生活在这个痛苦的世界里。

Justine assumed an air of cheerfulness, while she with difficulty repressed her bitter tears. She embraced Elizabeth and said in a voice of half-suppressed emotion, ‘Farewell, sweet lady, dearest Elizabeth, my beloved and only friend; may heaven, in its bounty, bless and preserve you; may this be the last misfortune that you will ever suffer! Live, and be happy, and make others so.’
贾斯汀一脸高兴，却艰难地忍住了苦涩的泪水。她拥抱了伊丽莎白，用半压抑的情绪说道：“再见了，可爱的女士，最亲爱的伊丽莎白，我心爱的、唯一的朋友；愿上天以其恩惠保佑并保护你；愿这是你遭受的最后的不幸！生活，快乐，并让别人如此。”

And on the morrow Justine died. Elizabeth’s heart-rending eloquence failed to move the judges from their settled conviction in the criminality of the saintly sufferer. My passionate and indignant appeals were lost upon them. And when I received their cold answers and heard the harsh, unfeeling reasoning of these men, my purposed avowal died away on my lips. Thus I might proclaim myself a madman, but not revoke the sentence passed upon my wretched victim. She perished on the scaffold as a murderess!
第二天贾斯汀去世了。伊丽莎白令人心碎的雄辩未能使法官们放弃对这位神圣受难者犯罪的坚定信念。我的热情和愤怒的呼吁对他们来说是无效的。当我收到他们冷酷的答复，并听到这些人严厉、无情的推理时，我有意表白的声音就消失了。因此，我可以宣称自己是个疯子，但不能撤销对我可怜的受害者的判决。她作为杀人犯死在断头台上！

From the tortures of my own heart, I turned to contemplate the deep and voiceless grief of my Elizabeth. This also was my doing! And my father’s woe, and the desolation of that late so smiling home all was the work of my thrice-accursed hands! Ye weep, unhappy ones, but these are not your last tears! Again shall you raise the funeral wail, and the sound of your lamentations shall again and again be heard! Frankenstein, your son, your kinsman, your early, much-loved friend; he who would spend each vital drop of blood for your sakes, who has no thought nor sense of joy except as it is mirrored also in your dear countenances, who would fill the air with blessings and spend his life in serving you— he bids you weep, to shed countless tears; happy beyond his hopes, if thus inexorable fate be satisfied, and if the destruction pause before the peace of the grave have succeeded to your sad torments!
从我内心的折磨中，我转而思考我的伊丽莎白深深的、无声的悲伤。这也是我干的！我父亲的不幸，以及那个已故的微笑之家的荒凉，全都是我那双该死的手造成的！你们哭泣，不幸的人们，但这不是你们最后的眼泪！你们将再次发出葬礼的哀号，你们的哀号将一次又一次地被听到！弗兰肯斯坦，你的儿子，你的亲戚，你早年深爱的朋友；他会为了你而流尽每一滴血，他不会有任何想法，也不会感到快乐，除非它也反映在你亲爱的面容上，他会让空气中充满祝福，并用一生来为你服务——他命令你哭泣，流下无数的泪水；如果这无情的命运能够得到满足，如果在坟墓的平静取代你的悲伤折磨之前毁灭停止，那么他的幸福超出了他的希望！

Thus spoke my prophetic soul, as, torn by remorse, horror, and despair, I beheld those I loved spend vain sorrow upon the graves of William and Justine, the first hapless victims to my unhallowed arts.
我的先知灵魂如此说道，当我被悔恨、恐惧和绝望撕裂时，我看到我所爱的人在威廉和贾斯汀的坟墓上度过了徒劳的悲伤，他们是我不神圣的艺术的第一批不幸的受害者。

Chapter 9
第9章

Nothing is more painful to the human mind than, after the feelings have been worked up by a quick succession of events, the dead calmness of inaction and certainty which follows and deprives the soul both of hope and fear. Justine died, she rested, and I was alive. The blood flowed freely in my veins, but a weight of despair and remorse pressed on my heart which nothing could remove. Sleep fled from my eyes; I wandered like an evil spirit, for I had committed deeds of mischief beyond description horrible, and more, much more (I persuaded myself) was yet behind. Yet my heart overflowed with kindness and the love of virtue. I had begun life with benevolent intentions and thirsted for the moment when I should put them in practice and make myself useful to my fellow beings. Now all was blasted; instead of that serenity of conscience which allowed me to look back upon the past with self-satisfaction, and from thence to gather promise of new hopes, I was seized by remorse and the sense of guilt, which hurried me away to a hell of intense tortures such as no language can describe.
对人的心灵来说，没有什么比在一系列事件迅速激起感情之后，随之而来的是无所作为和确定性的死寂平静，并剥夺了灵魂的希望和恐惧。贾斯汀死了，她休息了，而我还活着。血液在我的血管里自由地流淌，但绝望和悔恨的重压压在我的心上，任何东西都无法消除。睡意从我的眼前消失；我像一个恶魔一样徘徊，因为我犯下了难以描述的可怕恶行，而且还有更多、更多（我说服自己）还在后面。然而我的内心却充满了仁慈和对美德的热爱。我怀着仁慈的意图开始生活，并渴望将它们付诸实践，让自己对同胞有用。现在一切都被摧毁了；良心的平静让我能够自我满足地回顾过去，并从那里收集新的希望，相反，我被悔恨和内疚感所抓住，这让我匆匆忙忙地陷入了强烈的地狱。那种折磨是任何语言都无法形容的。

This state of mind preyed upon my health, which had perhaps never entirely recovered from the first shock it had sustained. I shunned the face of man; all sound of joy or complacency was torture to me; solitude was my only consolation—deep, dark, deathlike solitude.
这种心态损害了我的健康，我的健康也许从未从第一次遭受的冲击中完全恢复过来。我回避人类的面孔；所有喜悦或自满的声音对我来说都是折磨；孤独是我唯一的安慰——深沉、黑暗、死亡般的孤独。

My father observed with pain the alteration perceptible in my disposition and habits and endeavoured by arguments deduced from the feelings of his serene conscience and guiltless life to inspire me with fortitude and awaken in me the courage to dispel the dark cloud which brooded over me. ‘Do you think, Victor,’ said he, ‘that I do not suffer also? No one could love a child more than I loved your brother’—tears came into his eyes as he spoke— ‘but is it not a duty to the survivors that we should refrain from augmenting their unhappiness by an appearance of immoderate grief? It is also a duty owed to yourself, for excessive sorrow prevents improvement or enjoyment, or even the discharge of daily usefulness, without which no man is fit for society.’
父亲痛苦地观察到我的性格和习惯发生了明显的变化，并努力从他平静的良心和无罪的生活中推断出来的论据，激励我坚强，唤醒我驱散笼罩在我身上的乌云的勇气。 “你认为，维克多，”他说，“我也不会受苦吗？没有人能像我爱你的兄弟那样爱一个孩子”——他说话时眼里含着泪水——“但我们不应该表现出过度的悲伤，以免加剧他们的不幸，这难道不是对幸存者的一种责任吗？”这也是对你自己的责任，因为过度的悲伤会阻碍进步或享受，甚至阻碍日常的有用性，没有这些，任何人都不适合社会。

This advice, although good, was totally inapplicable to my case; I should have been the first to hide my grief and console my friends if remorse had not mingled its bitterness, and terror its alarm, with my other sensations. Now I could only answer my father with a look of despair and endeavour to hide myself from his view.
这个建议虽然很好，但完全不适用于我的情况；如果悔恨没有将痛苦和恐惧与我的其他感觉混合在一起，我应该是第一个隐藏我的悲伤并安慰我的朋友的人。现在我只能用绝望的眼神回答父亲，并努力隐藏自己，不让他看到。

About this time we retired to our house at Belrive. This change was particularly agreeable to me. The shutting of the gates regularly at ten o’clock and the impossibility of remaining on the lake after that hour had rendered our residence within the walls of Geneva very irksome to me. I was now free. Often, after the rest of the family had retired for the night, I took the boat and passed many hours upon the water. Sometimes, with my sails set, I was carried by the wind; and sometimes, after rowing into the middle of the lake, I left the boat to pursue its own course and gave way to my own miserable reflections. I was often tempted, when all was at peace around me, and I the only unquiet thing that wandered restless in a scene so beautiful and heavenly—if I except some bat, or the frogs, whose harsh and interrupted croaking was heard only when I approached the shore—often, I say, I was tempted to plunge into the silent lake, that the waters might close over me and my calamities forever. But I was restrained, when I thought of the heroic and suffering Elizabeth, whom I tenderly loved, and whose existence was bound up in mine. I thought also of my father and surviving brother; should I by my base desertion leave them exposed and unprotected to the malice of the fiend whom I had let loose among them?
大约在这个时候，我们退休回到贝尔里夫的家。这个改变让我特别满意。十点钟定期关门，而且过了这个时间就无法留在湖上，这让我们在日内瓦城墙内的住所变得非常令人厌烦。我现在自由了。通常，当家里其他人都休息了一晚后，我就乘船在水面上度过几个小时。有时，我扬起风帆，随风而行；有时，划到湖中央后，我就离开船去追寻自己的航向，让位于自己悲惨的倒影。当我周围一切都很平静时，我经常受到诱惑，而我是唯一不安的东西，在如此美丽和天堂般的场景中不安地徘徊——如果我除了一些蝙蝠或青蛙，它们刺耳且断断续续的呱呱叫声只有当我靠近岸边——我说，我常常想跳进寂静的湖里，这样湖水就可以永远淹没我和我的灾难。但当我想到我温柔地爱着的英勇而痛苦的伊丽莎白，她的存在与我息息相关时，我就克制住了。我还想到了我的父亲和幸存的兄弟；我是否应该因为我卑鄙的遗弃而让他们暴露在我在他们中间释放的恶魔的恶意之下并且不受保护？

At these moments I wept bitterly and wished that peace would revisit my mind only that I might afford them consolation and happiness. But that could not be. Remorse extinguished every hope. I had been the author of unalterable evils, and I lived in daily fear lest the monster whom I had created should perpetrate some new wickedness. I had an obscure feeling that all was not over and that he would still commit some signal crime, which by its enormity should almost efface the recollection of the past. There was always scope for fear so long as anything I loved remained behind. My abhorrence of this fiend cannot be conceived. When I thought of him I gnashed my teeth, my eyes became inflamed, and I ardently wished to extinguish that life which I had so thoughtlessly bestowed. When I reflected on his crimes and malice, my hatred and revenge burst all bounds of moderation. I would have made a pilgrimage to the highest peak of the Andes, could I when there have precipitated him to their base. I wished to see him again, that I might wreak the utmost extent of abhorrence on his head and avenge the deaths of William and Justine. Our house was the house of mourning. My father’s health was deeply shaken by the horror of the recent events. Elizabeth was sad and desponding; she no longer took delight in her ordinary occupations; all pleasure seemed to her sacrilege toward the dead; eternal woe and tears she then thought was the just tribute she should pay to innocence so blasted and destroyed. She was no longer that happy creature who in earlier youth wandered with me on the banks of the lake and talked with ecstasy of our future prospects. The first of those sorrows which are sent to wean us from the earth had visited her, and its dimming influence quenched her dearest smiles.
此时此刻，我痛哭流涕，希望内心能够重新平静，只为给他们带来安慰和幸福。但事实并非如此。悔恨浇灭了一切希望。我是不可改变的罪恶的始作俑者，我每天都生活在恐惧之中，唯恐我所创造的怪物会犯下一些新的邪恶。我有一种模糊的感觉，一切还没有结束，他还会犯下一些重大罪行，其严重性几乎应该抹去对过去的记忆。只要我所爱的东西还留在身后，恐惧就永远存在。我对这个恶魔的憎恶是无法想象的。一想到他，我就咬牙切齿，眼睛发炎，恨不得掐灭我轻率赐予的生命。当我反思他的罪行和恶意时，我的仇恨和报复冲破了一切节制。我本来会去安第斯山脉的最高峰朝圣，如果我能在那里把他带到他们的基地的话。我希望再次见到他，以便给他带来最大程度的憎恶，并为威廉和贾斯汀的死报仇。我们的房子是灵堂。最近发生的恐怖事件严重影响了我父亲的健康。伊丽莎白感到悲伤和沮丧。她不再对自己的日常工作感到高兴。在她看来，所有的快乐都是对死者的亵渎。她当时认为，永恒的悲痛和泪水才是她应该向如此被摧毁和毁灭的纯真的致敬。她不再是那个年轻时和我一起漫步在湖边、欣喜若狂地谈论我们未来前景的那个快乐的人了。那些让我们与尘世断绝关系的悲伤中的第一个已经降临到她身上，它的黯淡影响熄灭了她最可爱的微笑。

‘When I reflect, my dear cousin,’ said she, ‘on the miserable death of Justine Moritz, I no longer see the world and its works as they before appeared to me. Before, I looked upon the accounts of vice and injustice that I read in books or heard from others as tales of ancient days or imaginary evils; at least they were remote and more familiar to reason than to the imagination; but now misery has come home, and men appear to me as monsters thirsting for each other’s blood. Yet I am certainly unjust. Everybody believed that poor girl to be guilty; and if she could have committed the crime for which she suffered, assuredly she would have been the most depraved of human creatures. For the sake of a few jewels, to have murdered the son of her benefactor and friend, a child whom she had nursed from its birth, and appeared to love as if it had been her own! I could not consent to the death of any human being, but certainly I should have thought such a creature unfit to remain in the society of men. But she was innocent. I know, I feel she was innocent; you are of the same opinion, and that confirms me. Alas! Victor, when falsehood can look so like the truth, who can assure themselves of certain happiness? I feel as if I were walking on the edge of a precipice, towards which thousands are crowding and endeavouring to plunge me into the abyss. William and Justine were assassinated, and the murderer escapes; he walks about the world free, and perhaps respected. But even if I were condemned to suffer on the scaffold for the same crimes, I would not change places with such a wretch.’
“我亲爱的表弟，”她说，“当我反思贾斯汀·莫里茨的悲惨死亡时，我看到的世界及其作品不再像以前那样。以前，我把在书本上读到的或从别人那里听到的罪恶和不公正的故事视为古代故事或想象中的邪恶；至少他们距离遥远，并且更熟悉理性而不是想象力。但现在苦难已经降临，在我看来，人们就像是渴望彼此鲜血的怪物。但我确实不公正。每个人都相信这个可怜的女孩有罪。如果她真能犯下让她受苦的罪行，那么她肯定是人类中最堕落的人了。为了几件珠宝，竟然谋杀了她恩人和朋友的儿子，这个孩子是她从一出生就养大的，而且还像爱自己的孩子一样！我不能同意任何人的死亡，但我当然应该认为这样的生物不适合留在人类社会中。但她是无辜的。我知道，我觉得她是无辜的；你也有同样的观点，这证实了我的观点。唉!维克多，当谎言与真相如此相似时，谁能保证自己一定会幸福呢？我感觉自己正走在悬崖边上，成千上万的人蜂拥而至，想把我推入深渊。威廉和贾斯汀被暗杀，凶手逃脱；他自由地走遍世界，也许还受到尊重。但即使我因同样的罪行而被判处绞刑架，我也不会和这样一个可怜虫交换位置。”

I listened to this discourse with the extremest agony. I, not in deed, but in effect, was the true murderer. Elizabeth read my anguish in my countenance, and kindly taking my hand, said, ‘My dearest friend, you must calm yourself. These events have affected me, God knows how deeply; but I am not so wretched as you are. There is an expression of despair, and sometimes of revenge, in your countenance that makes me tremble. Dear Victor, banish these dark passions. Remember the friends around you, who centre all their hopes in you. Have we lost the power of rendering you happy? Ah! While we love, while we are true to each other, here in this land of peace and beauty, your native country, we may reap every tranquil blessing— what can disturb our peace?’
我怀着极度痛苦的心情听了这个演讲。我，不是事实上，而是实际上，才是真正的凶手。伊丽莎白从我的脸上看出了我的痛苦，温柔地握住我的手说：“我最亲爱的朋友，你必须冷静下来。”这些事件对我的影响，天知道有多深；但我并不像你那么可怜。你的脸上有一种绝望的表情，有时甚至是报复的表情，让我颤抖。亲爱的维克多，请消除这些黑暗的激情。记住你身边的朋友，他们把所有的希望都寄托在你身上。我们是否失去了让你快乐的力量？啊!当我们相爱，当我们真诚相待时，在这片和平与美丽的土地上，在你们的祖国，我们可以收获每一份宁静的祝福——还有什么能扰乱我们的平静呢？

And could not such words from her whom I fondly prized before every other gift of fortune suffice to chase away the fiend that lurked in my heart? Even as she spoke I drew near to her, as if in terror, lest at that very moment the destroyer had been near to rob me of her.
难道我最珍视的她的这番话，难道不足以驱走潜伏在我心中的恶魔吗？就在她说话的时候，我就靠近她，仿佛感到恐惧，唯恐就在那一刻，毁灭者已经逼近，要把她抢走。

Thus not the tenderness of friendship, nor the beauty of earth, nor of heaven, could redeem my soul from woe; the very accents of love were ineffectual. I was encompassed by a cloud which no beneficial influence could penetrate. The wounded deer dragging its fainting limbs to some untrodden brake, there to gaze upon the arrow which had pierced it, and to die, was but a type of me.
因此，无论是友谊的温柔，还是人间或天堂的美丽，都不能拯救我的灵魂脱离悲伤；爱的口音本身是无效的。我被一片乌云包围着，任何有益的影响都无法穿透。受伤的鹿拖着昏厥的四肢走到某个无人踩踏的刹车处，在那里凝视着射穿它的箭，然后死去，这只是我的一种类型。

Sometimes I could cope with the sullen despair that overwhelmed me, but sometimes the whirlwind passions of my soul drove me to seek, by bodily exercise and by change of place, some relief from my intolerable sensations. It was during an access of this kind that I suddenly left my home, and bending my steps towards the near Alpine valleys, sought in the magnificence, the eternity of such scenes, to forget myself and my ephemeral, because human, sorrows. My wanderings were directed towards the valley of Chamounix. I had visited it frequently during my boyhood. Six years had passed since then: I was a wreck, but nought had changed in those savage and enduring scenes.
有时我可以应对压倒我的阴郁绝望，但有时我灵魂的旋风般的激情驱使我通过身体锻炼和改变地方来寻求某种缓解，以摆脱我无法忍受的感觉。正是在这样的一次访问中，我突然离开了家，弯下脚步走向附近的阿尔卑斯山谷，寻找这样的场景的壮丽和永恒，忘记我自己和我短暂的、因为人类的悲伤。我的漫游方向是夏穆尼山谷。我小时候经常去那里。六年过去了，我已是一片废墟，但那些野蛮而持久的景象却没有任何改变。

I performed the first part of my journey on horseback. I afterwards hired a mule, as the more sure-footed and least liable to receive injury on these rugged roads. The weather was fine; it was about the middle of the month of August, nearly two months after the death of Justine, that miserable epoch from which I dated all my woe. The weight upon my spirit was sensibly lightened as I plunged yet deeper in the ravine of Arve. The immense mountains and precipices that overhung me on every side, the sound of the river raging among the rocks, and the dashing of the waterfalls around spoke of a power mighty as Omnipotence—and I ceased to fear or to bend before any being less almighty than that which had created and ruled the elements, here displayed in their most terrific guise. Still, as I ascended higher, the valley assumed a more magnificent and astonishing character. Ruined castles hanging on the precipices of piny mountains, the impetuous Arve, and cottages every here and there peeping forth from among the trees formed a scene of singular beauty. But it was augmented and rendered sublime by the mighty Alps, whose white and shining pyramids and domes towered above all, as belonging to another earth, the habitations of another race of beings.
我在马背上完成了旅程的第一部分。后来我雇了一头骡子，因为在这些崎岖的道路上，骡子走得更稳，也最不容易受伤。天气不错;那是大约八月中旬，距贾斯汀去世近两个月，我所有的悲痛都是从那个悲惨的时代开始的。当我深入阿尔夫峡谷时，我的精神负担明显减轻了。四周高耸的山脉和悬崖、河水在岩石间咆哮的声音、周围飞流直下的瀑布，都在诉说着一种无所不能的力量——在任何不那么强大的人面前，我不再害怕，也不再屈服。而不是那些创造并统治元素的东西，在这里以最可怕的面貌展现出来。然而，当我登上更高的高度时，山谷呈现出更加宏伟和令人惊叹的特征。耸立在松山悬崖上的城堡废墟，汹涌的阿尔夫，以及林间随处可见的小屋，构成了一幅奇美的景象。但雄伟的阿尔卑斯山却让它变得更加壮丽和崇高，阿尔卑斯山上白色闪亮的金字塔和圆顶高耸入云，仿佛属于另一个地球，是另一个种族的栖息地。

I passed the bridge of Pelissier, where the ravine, which the river forms, opened before me, and I began to ascend the mountain that overhangs it. Soon after, I entered the valley of Chamounix. This valley is more wonderful and sublime, but not so beautiful and picturesque as that of Servox, through which I had just passed. The high and snowy mountains were its immediate boundaries, but I saw no more ruined castles and fertile fields. Immense glaciers approached the road; I heard the rumbling thunder of the falling avalanche and marked the smoke of its passage. Mont Blanc, the supreme and magnificent Mont Blanc, raised itself from the surrounding aiguilles, and its tremendous dome overlooked the valley.
我经过佩利西尔桥，河流形成的峡谷在我面前展开，我开始登上悬在峡谷上方的山峰。不久之后，我进入了夏穆尼山谷。这个山谷更加美妙和崇高，但不如我刚刚经过的塞沃克斯山谷那么美丽和​​风景如画。高耸的雪山是它的直接边界，但我再也看不到废墟的城堡和肥沃的田野。巨大的冰川逼近了道路；我听到了雪崩落下的隆隆雷声，并注意到了雪崩经过时的烟雾。勃朗峰，至高无上、雄伟壮丽的勃朗峰，从周围的尖峰中拔地而起，其巨大的圆顶俯瞰着山谷。

A tingling long-lost sense of pleasure often came across me during this journey. Some turn in the road, some new object suddenly perceived and recognized, reminded me of days gone by, and were associated with the lighthearted gaiety of boyhood. The very winds whispered in soothing accents, and maternal Nature bade me weep no more. Then again the kindly influence ceased to act— I found myself fettered again to grief and indulging in all the misery of reflection. Then I spurred on my animal, striving so to forget the world, my fears, and more than all, myself—or, in a more desperate fashion, I alighted and threw myself on the grass, weighed down by horror and despair.
在这段旅程中，一种久违的愉悦感经常在我身上袭来。路上的一些转弯，一些突然被感知和认识的新物体，让我想起了过去的日子，并与童年的轻松愉快联系在一起。风在低语着舒缓的口音，母性的大自然命令我不要再哭泣。然后，仁慈的影响力又不再发挥作用——我发现自己再次陷入悲伤之中，沉迷于反思的痛苦之中。然后我激励我的动物，努力忘记世界、我的恐惧，最重要的是忘记我自己——或者，以一种更绝望的方式，我跳下车，扑倒在草地上，被恐惧和绝望压垮。

At length I arrived at the village of Chamounix. Exhaustion succeeded to the extreme fatigue both of body and of mind which I had endured. For a short space of time I remained at the window watching the pallid lightnings that played above Mont Blanc and listening to the rushing of the Arve, which pursued its noisy way beneath. The same lulling sounds acted as a lullaby to my too keen sensations; when I placed my head upon my pillow, sleep crept over me; I felt it as it came and blessed the giver of oblivion.
最后我到达了夏穆尼村。我所忍受的身体和精神都极度疲劳，疲惫不堪。我在窗前呆了一小会儿，看着勃朗峰上空的苍白闪电，听着阿尔沃河的奔流声，它在下面喧闹地流淌。同样的平静的声音对我过于敏锐的感觉起到了摇篮曲的作用。当我把头枕在枕头上时，睡意悄然而至。当它到来时我感受到了它并祝福遗忘的给予者。

Chapter 10
第10章

I spent the following day roaming through the valley. I stood beside the sources of the Arveiron, which take their rise in a glacier, that with slow pace is advancing down from the summit of the hills to barricade the valley. The abrupt sides of vast mountains were before me; the icy wall of the glacier overhung me; a few shattered pines were scattered around; and the solemn silence of this glorious presence-chamber of imperial nature was broken only by the brawling waves or the fall of some vast fragment, the thunder sound of the avalanche or the cracking, reverberated along the mountains, of the accumulated ice, which, through the silent working of immutable laws, was ever and anon rent and torn, as if it had been but a plaything in their hands. These sublime and magnificent scenes afforded me the greatest consolation that I was capable of receiving. They elevated me from all littleness of feeling, and although they did not remove my grief, they subdued and tranquillized it. In some degree, also, they diverted my mind from the thoughts over which it had brooded for the last month. I retired to rest at night; my slumbers, as it were, waited on and ministered to by the assemblance of grand shapes which I had contemplated during the day. They congregated round me; the unstained snowy mountaintop, the glittering pinnacle, the pine woods, and ragged bare ravine, the eagle, soaring amidst the clouds— they all gathered round me and bade me be at peace.
第二天我在山谷里漫步。我站在阿维龙河的源头旁边，这条河发源于冰川，缓慢地从山顶向下流，形成了山谷。巍峨山脉的陡峭侧面就在我面前；冰川的冰墙悬在我的上方；周围散落着几棵折断的松树。只有汹涌的海浪或某些巨大碎片的坠落、雪崩的雷鸣声或沿着山峦回响的积冰的破裂声，打破了这座辉煌的皇家殿堂的庄严寂静，通过一成不变的法律的无声运作，它时不时地被撕裂和撕裂，仿佛它只是他们手中的一个玩物。这些崇高壮丽的景象给了我最大的安慰。他们使我摆脱了一切微不足道的感觉，虽然他们没有消除我的悲伤，但他们抑制并平静了它。在某种程度上，它们也让我的思绪从上个月沉思的思绪中转移开。晚上我就去休息了；可以说，我的睡眠是由我白天所沉思的宏伟形状的集合来等待和服务的。他们聚集在我周围；洁白无瑕的雪山、闪闪发光的尖峰、松树林、崎岖光秃的峡谷、云间翱翔的雄鹰——它们都聚集在我周围，请我安息。

Where had they fled when the next morning I awoke? All of soul- inspiriting fled with sleep, and dark melancholy clouded every thought. The rain was pouring in torrents, and thick mists hid the summits of the mountains, so that I even saw not the faces of those mighty friends. Still I would penetrate their misty veil and seek them in their cloudy retreats. What were rain and storm to me? My mule was brought to the door, and I resolved to ascend to the summit of Montanvert. I remembered the effect that the view of the tremendous and ever-moving glacier had produced upon my mind when I first saw it. It had then filled me with a sublime ecstasy that gave wings to the soul and allowed it to soar from the obscure world to light and joy. The sight of the awful and majestic in nature had indeed always the effect of solemnizing my mind and causing me to forget the passing cares of life. I determined to go without a guide, for I was well acquainted with the path, and the presence of another would destroy the solitary grandeur of the scene.
当我第二天早上醒来时，他们逃到哪里去了？一切振奋人心的事物都随着睡眠而消失，黑暗的忧郁笼罩着每一个思绪。雨下得倾盆大雨，浓浓的雾气遮住了山峰，我连那些威武朋友的脸都看不到了。尽管如此，我仍会穿透它们的薄雾般的面纱，在它们阴暗的隐居处寻找它们。雨和暴风雨对我来说算什么？我的骡子被带到了门口，我决定登上蒙坦维特山顶。我记得当我第一次看到巨大且不断移动的冰川时，它给我带来的震撼。它让我充满了崇高的狂喜，为灵魂插上了翅膀，让它从晦涩的世界飞向光明和欢乐。大自然中可怕而雄伟的景象确实总是使我的心灵变得庄严，使我忘记了生活中短暂的忧虑。我决定不带向导走，因为我对那条路很熟悉，别人的出现就会破坏这景色的孤独壮丽。

The ascent is precipitous, but the path is cut into continual and short windings, which enable you to surmount the perpendicularity of the mountain. It is a scene terrifically desolate. In a thousand spots the traces of the winter avalanche may be perceived, where trees lie broken and strewed on the ground, some entirely destroyed, others bent, leaning upon the jutting rocks of the mountain or transversely upon other trees. The path, as you ascend nigher, is intersected by ravines of snow, down which stones continually roll from above; one of them is particularly dangerous, as the slightest sound, such as even speaking in a loud voice, produces a concussion of air sufficient to draw destruction upon the head of the speaker. The pines are not tall or luxuriant, but they are sombre and add an air of severity to the scene. I looked on the valley beneath; vast mists were rising from the rivers which ran through it and curling in thick wreaths around the opposite mountains, whose summits were hid in the uniform clouds, while rain poured from the dark sky and added to the melancholy impression I received from the objects around me. Alas! Why does man boast of sensibilities superior to those apparent in the brute; it only renders them more necessary beings. If our impulses were confined to hunger, thirst, and desire, we might be nearly free; but now we are moved by every wind that blows and a chance word or scene that that word may convey to us.
上坡路虽然陡峭，但道路却被切割成连续的、短小的弯道，使你能够超越山体的垂直度。场面极其荒凉。在一千个地方，可以看到冬季雪崩的痕迹，树木折断，散落在地上，有的完全被毁，有的弯曲，靠在山上突出的岩石上，或横向靠在其他树上。当你走得更近时，小路被积雪的峡谷所交叉，石头不断地从上面滚下来。其中之一特别危险，因为最轻微的声音，例如即使大声说话，也会产生足以对说话者的头部造成破坏的空气震荡。松树并不高大，也不茂盛，但却阴森森的，增添了一种肃穆的气氛。我看着下面的山谷；流经河流的河流升起了浓浓的雾气，在对面的山周围盘旋成厚厚的花环，山峰隐藏在均匀的云层中，而雨从黑暗的天空倾盆而下，给我从周围的事物中获得的忧郁印象增添了色彩。 。唉!为什么人类夸耀自己的情感比畜生的情感更胜一筹？它只会使他们成为更必要的存在。如果我们的冲动仅限于饥饿、口渴和欲望，我们可能几乎是自由的；但现在，我们会被每一次吹过的风以及这个词可能传达给我们的偶然的词或场景所感动。

We rest; a dream has power to poison sleep.
我们休息;梦有毒害睡眠的力量。

We rise; one wand’ring thought pollutes the day.
我们上升;一个魔杖环的想法会污染这一天。

We feel, conceive, or reason; laugh or weep,
我们感觉、构想或推理；笑或哭，

Embrace fond woe, or cast our cares away;
拥抱悲伤，或抛开忧虑；

It is the same: for, be it joy or sorrow,
都是一样的：无论是快乐还是悲伤，

The path of its departure still is free.
它离开的道路仍然是自由的。

Man’s yesterday may ne’er be like his morrow;
人的昨天可能与明天不同；

Nought may endure but mutability!
除了可变性之外，没有什么可以持久！

It was nearly noon when I arrived at the top of the ascent. For some time I sat upon the rock that overlooks the sea of ice. A mist covered both that and the surrounding mountains. Presently a breeze dissipated the cloud, and I descended upon the glacier. The surface is very uneven, rising like the waves of a troubled sea, descending low, and interspersed by rifts that sink deep. The field of ice is almost a league in width, but I spent nearly two hours in crossing it. The opposite mountain is a bare perpendicular rock. From the side where I now stood Montanvert was exactly opposite, at the distance of a league; and above it rose Mont Blanc, in awful majesty. I remained in a recess of the rock, gazing on this wonderful and stupendous scene. The sea, or rather the vast river of ice, wound among its dependent mountains, whose aerial summits hung over its recesses. Their icy and glittering peaks shone in the sunlight over the clouds. My heart, which was before sorrowful, now swelled with something like joy; I exclaimed, ‘Wandering spirits, if indeed ye wander, and do not rest in your narrow beds, allow me this faint happiness, or take me, as your companion, away from the joys of life.’
到达山顶时已近中午。我在俯瞰冰海的岩石上坐了一段时间。薄雾覆盖了那座山和周围的群山。不久，微风吹散了云层，我降落在冰川上。地表非常凹凸不平，有如惊涛骇浪般升起，又落得很低，并散布着深陷的裂痕。冰原几乎有一里格宽，但我花了将近两个小时才穿过它。对面的山是一块裸露的垂直岩石。从我现在站的那一边来看，蒙坦维特正好在对面，相距一里格。其上空矗立着雄伟的勃朗峰。我站在岩石的凹处，凝视着这美妙而壮观的景象。大海，或者更确切地说，是一条巨大的冰河，蜿蜒在其附属的山脉之间，山脉的空中山峰悬在其凹处。它们冰冷而闪闪发光的山峰在云层上方的阳光下闪闪发光。我的心原本是悲伤的，现在却充满了喜悦；我喊道：“流浪的灵魂，如果你们确实在流浪，不在你们狭窄的床上休息，请给我这种微弱的幸福，或者让我，作为你们的伴侣，远离生活的乐趣。”

As I said this I suddenly beheld the figure of a man, at some distance, advancing towards me with superhuman speed. He bounded over the crevices in the ice, among which I had walked with caution; his stature, also, as he approached, seemed to exceed that of man. I was troubled; a mist came over my eyes, and I felt a faintness seize me, but I was quickly restored by the cold gale of the mountains. I perceived, as the shape came nearer (sight tremendous and abhorred!) that it was the wretch whom I had created. I trembled with rage and horror, resolving to wait his approach and then close with him in mortal combat. He approached; his countenance bespoke bitter anguish, combined with disdain and malignity, while its unearthly ugliness rendered it almost too horrible for human eyes. But I scarcely observed this; rage and hatred had at first deprived me of utterance, and I recovered only to overwhelm him with words expressive of furious detestation and contempt.
正说着，我突然看到远处有一个人影，以超人的速度向我走来。他跳过冰缝，而我则小心翼翼地在其中行走。当他走近时，他的身材似乎也超过了人类。我很烦恼；我的眼睛蒙上了一层雾气，感到一阵晕眩，但很快山上的寒风就让我恢复了过来。当那个形状越来越近时（景象巨大而令人厌恶！），我意识到那是我创造的那个可怜虫。我因愤怒和恐惧而浑身发抖，决定等待他的到来，然后与他进行殊死搏斗。他走近了；他的面容显示出极度的痛苦，夹杂着蔑视和恶意，而其超凡脱俗的丑陋使得它对于人类的眼睛来说几乎太可怕了。但我几乎没有注意到这一点；起初，愤怒和仇恨使我无法说话，后来我才恢复过来，用表达强烈厌恶和蔑视的言语压倒了他。

‘Devil,’ I exclaimed, ‘do you dare approach me? And do not you fear the fierce vengeance of my arm wreaked on your miserable head? Begone, vile insect! Or rather, stay, that I may trample you to dust! And, oh! That I could, with the extinction of your miserable existence, restore those victims whom you have so diabolically murdered!’
“魔鬼，”我惊呼道，“你敢接近我吗？难道你不害怕我的手臂猛烈地报复你那可怜的脑袋吗？走开，可恶的昆虫！或者更确切地说，留下来，我会把你踩成灰尘！而且，哦！我可以随着你悲惨的存在的消失，让那些被你如此残忍地谋杀的受害者复活！

‘I expected this reception,’ said the daemon. ‘All men hate the wretched; how, then, must I be hated, who am miserable beyond all living things! Yet you, my creator, detest and spurn me, thy creature, to whom thou art bound by ties only dissoluble by the annihilation of one of us. You purpose to kill me. How dare you sport thus with life? Do your duty towards me, and I will do mine towards you and the rest of mankind. If you will comply with my conditions, I will leave them and you at peace; but if you refuse, I will glut the maw of death, until it be satiated with the blood of your remaining friends.’
“我预料到会有这样的接待，”恶魔说道。 ‘所有人都憎恨不幸的人；那么，我该是多么令人憎恨啊，我比一切众生都悲惨！然而，你，我的创造者，却厌恶并抛弃了我，你的创造物，你与我之间的纽带只有在我们中的一个人被消灭后才能解除。你故意要杀了我。你怎么敢这样对待生活？尽你对我的责任，我也会对你和其他人类尽我的责任。如果你答应我的条件，我就让他们和你都安宁；但如果你拒绝，我会吞食死亡的胃，直到它被你剩下的朋友的鲜血填满为止。

‘Abhorred monster! Fiend that thou art! The tortures of hell are too mild a vengeance for thy crimes. Wretched devil! You reproach me with your creation, come on, then, that I may extinguish the spark which I so negligently bestowed.’
‘可恶的怪物！你真是恶魔！地狱的折磨对于你的罪行来说太温和了。可恶的恶魔！你用你的创造来责备我，那么，来吧，我可以扑灭我如此疏忽所赐予的火花。

My rage was without bounds; I sprang on him, impelled by all the feelings which can arm one being against the existence of another.
我的愤怒无边无际；我向他扑去，受到所有可以武装一个人反对另一个人存在的感觉的驱使。

He easily eluded me and said—
他轻松地避开了我并说道——

‘Be calm! I entreat you to hear me before you give vent to your hatred on my devoted head. Have I not suffered enough, that you seek to increase my misery? Life, although it may only be an accumulation of anguish, is dear to me, and I will defend it. Remember, thou hast made me more powerful than thyself; my height is superior to thine, my joints more supple. But I will not be tempted to set myself in opposition to thee. I am thy creature, and I will be even mild and docile to my natural lord and king if thou wilt also perform thy part, the which thou owest me. Oh, Frankenstein, be not equitable to every other and trample upon me alone, to whom thy justice, and even thy clemency and affection, is most due. Remember that I am thy creature; I ought to be thy Adam, but I am rather the fallen angel, whom thou drivest from joy for no misdeed. Everywhere I see bliss, from which I alone am irrevocably excluded. I was benevolent and good; misery made me a fiend. Make me happy, and I shall again be virtuous.’
'淡定！我恳求你在向我忠诚的头上发泄你的仇恨之前先听我说。难道我受的苦还不够多，你还想增加我的痛苦吗？生命，虽然可能只是痛苦的积累，但对我来说是珍贵的，我会捍卫它。请记住，你让我比你自己更强大；我的身高比你优越，我的关节更柔软。但我不会试图与你对立。我是你的创造物，如果你也履行你所欠我的职责，我将对我的自然主人和国王更加温和和顺从。噢，弗兰肯斯坦，你不要一视同仁，只践踏我一个人，你的正义，甚至你的仁慈和慈爱，都是对我最应有的。记住我是你的创造物；我本应是你的亚当，但我却是堕落的天使，你无缘无故地将他从欢乐中赶走。我到处都看到幸福，唯独我被无可挽回地排除在外。我是仁慈的，善良的；苦难让我变成了恶魔。让我快乐，我就会再次变得有德行。”

‘Begone! I will not hear you. There can be no community between you and me; we are enemies. Begone, or let us try our strength in a fight, in which one must fall.’
‘走吧！我不会听你说的。你我之间不可能有共同体；我们是敌人。走吧，或者让我们在一场战斗中试试我们的力量，在这场战斗中，一个人都必须倒下。

‘How can I move thee? Will no entreaties cause thee to turn a favourable eye upon thy creature, who implores thy goodness and compassion? Believe me, Frankenstein, I was benevolent; my soul glowed with love and humanity; but am I not alone, miserably alone? You, my creator, abhor me; what hope can I gather from your fellow creatures, who owe me nothing? They spurn and hate me. The desert mountains and dreary glaciers are my refuge. I have wandered here many days; the caves of ice, which I only do not fear, are a dwelling to me, and the only one which man does not grudge. These bleak skies I hail, for they are kinder to me than your fellow beings. If the multitude of mankind knew of my existence, they would do as you do, and arm themselves for my destruction. Shall I not then hate them who abhor me? I will keep no terms with my enemies. I am miserable, and they shall share my wretchedness. Yet it is in your power to recompense me, and deliver them from an evil which it only remains for you to make so great, that not only you and your family, but thousands of others, shall be swallowed up in the whirlwinds of its rage. Let your compassion be moved, and do not disdain me. Listen to my tale; when you have heard that, abandon or commiserate me, as you shall judge that I deserve. But hear me. The guilty are allowed, by human laws, bloody as they are, to speak in their own defence before they are condemned. Listen to me, Frankenstein. You accuse me of murder, and yet you would, with a satisfied conscience, destroy your own creature. Oh, praise the eternal justice of man! Yet I ask you not to spare me; listen to me, and then, if you can, and if you will, destroy the work of your hands.’
‘我要怎样才能感动你呢？没有任何恳求会让你对你的生物投以好感，因为它恳求你的善良和同情吗？相信我，弗兰肯斯坦，我是仁慈的；我的灵魂闪耀着爱与人性；但我不是孤独一人吗？你，我的创造者，憎恶我；我能从你们的同胞那里得到什么希望，他们不欠我什么？他们鄙视我并憎恨我。沙漠山脉和沉闷的冰川是我的避难所。我在这里徘徊了很多天；冰洞，我唯一不害怕的地方，对我来说是一个住处，也是唯一一个人们不吝惜的地方。我向这些荒凉的天空欢呼，因为它们对我比你们的同胞更仁慈。如果人类大众知道我的存在，他们就会像你一样，武装起来消灭我。难道我不应该恨那些憎恶我的人吗？我不会与我的敌人讲任何条件。我很痛苦，他们也会分担我的痛苦。然而，你有能力补偿我，将他们从邪恶中解救出来，而这种邪恶只有你才能变得如此之大，不仅你和你的家人，还有成千上万的其他人，都将被其愤怒的旋风所吞噬。 。让你的慈悲被感动吧，不要轻视我。听听我的故事；当你听到这个消息时，请抛弃我或同情我，因为你会认为这是我应得的。但听我说。人类法律允许有罪的人在被定罪之前为自己辩护，尽管他们是血腥的。听我说，弗兰肯斯坦。你指控我谋杀，但你却会良心满意地毁灭你自己的生物。哦，赞美人类永恒的正义！但我请求你不要饶恕我；听我说，然后，如果可以的话，如果你愿意的话，毁掉你双手的作品。”

‘Why do you call to my remembrance,’ I rejoined, ‘circumstances of which I shudder to reflect, that I have been the miserable origin and author? Cursed be the day, abhorred devil, in which you first saw light! Cursed (although I curse myself) be the hands that formed you! You have made me wretched beyond expression. You have left me no power to consider whether I am just to you or not. Begone! Relieve me from the sight of your detested form.’
“你为什么要让我想起，”我反驳道，“那些让我不寒而栗的情景，我就是悲惨的出身和创造者？”可恶的魔鬼，你第一次看到光明的那一天是该受诅咒的！造就你的双手该被诅咒（虽然我诅咒自己）！你让我苦不堪言。你让我没有权力去考虑我对你是否公正。走开！让我不再看到你那令人厌恶的形体。

‘Thus I relieve thee, my creator,’ he said, and placed his hated hands before my eyes, which I flung from me with violence; ‘thus I take from thee a sight which you abhor. Still thou canst listen to me and grant me thy compassion. By the virtues that I once possessed, I demand this from you. Hear my tale; it is long and strange, and the temperature of this place is not fitting to your fine sensations; come to the hut upon the mountain. The sun is yet high in the heavens; before it descends to hide itself behind your snowy precipices and illuminate another world, you will have heard my story and can decide. On you it rests, whether I quit forever the neighbourhood of man and lead a harmless life, or become the scourge of your fellow creatures and the author of your own speedy ruin.’
“这样我就解救了你，我的创造者，”他说，并将他那令人厌恶的双手放在我的眼前，我用力甩开了它。 ‘因此，我从你身上夺走了你所厌恶的景象。但你仍然可以倾听我的心声并给予我你的同情心。以我曾经拥有的美德，我向你要求这一点。听听我的故事；它又长又奇怪，而且这个地方的温度不适合你的精细感觉；来到山上的小屋。太阳还高高挂在天上；在它下降到隐藏在你白雪皑皑的悬崖后面并照亮另一个世界之前，你会听过我的故事并做出决定。无论我永远离开人类的邻里并过着无害的生活，还是成为你们同胞的祸害和你们自己迅速毁灭的根源，这一切都取决于你们。

As he said this he led the way across the ice; I followed. My heart was full, and I did not answer him, but as I proceeded, I weighed the various arguments that he had used and determined at least to listen to his tale. I was partly urged by curiosity, and compassion confirmed my resolution. I had hitherto supposed him to be the murderer of my brother, and I eagerly sought a confirmation or denial of this opinion. For the first time, also, I felt what the duties of a creator towards his creature were, and that I ought to render him happy before I complained of his wickedness. These motives urged me to comply with his demand. We crossed the ice, therefore, and ascended the opposite rock. The air was cold, and the rain again began to descend; we entered the hut, the fiend with an air of exultation, I with a heavy heart and depressed spirits. But I consented to listen, and seating myself by the fire which my odious companion had lighted, he thus began his tale.
他一边说着，一边带路穿过冰面。我跟着。我心里很充实，没有回答他，但一边说，一边权衡着他所使用的各种论据，决定至少听听他的故事。我部分是出于好奇心，同情心坚定了我的决心。迄今为止，我一直认为他是谋杀我兄弟的凶手，我急切地寻求证实或否认这一观点。我也第一次感受到造物主对他的创造物的责任是什么，在我抱怨他的邪恶之前，我应该让他快乐。这些动机促使我遵守他的要求。因此，我们穿过了冰面，登上了对面的岩石。空气寒冷，又开始下雨了。我们走进小屋，恶魔眉飞色舞，我心情沉重，心情郁闷。但我同意听，并坐在我可恶的同伴点燃的火边，他就这样开始了他的故事。

Chapter 11
第11章

‘It is with considerable difficulty that I remember the original era of my being; all the events of that period appear confused and indistinct. A strange multiplicity of sensations seized me, and I saw, felt, heard, and smelt at the same time; and it was, indeed, a long time before I learned to distinguish between the operations of my various senses. By degrees, I remember, a stronger light pressed upon my nerves, so that I was obliged to shut my eyes. Darkness then came over me and troubled me, but hardly had I felt this when, by opening my eyes, as I now suppose, the light poured in upon me again. I walked and, I believe, descended, but I presently found a great alteration in my sensations. Before, dark and opaque bodies had surrounded me, impervious to my touch or sight; but I now found that I could wander on at liberty, with no obstacles which I could not either surmount or avoid. The light became more and more oppressive to me, and the heat wearying me as I walked, I sought a place where I could receive shade. This was the forest near Ingolstadt; and here I lay by the side of a brook resting from my fatigue, until I felt tormented by hunger and thirst. This roused me from my nearly dormant state, and I ate some berries which I found hanging on the trees or lying on the ground. I slaked my thirst at the brook, and then lying down, was overcome by sleep.
“我很难记起我最初存在的时代；那个时期发生的所有事件都显得混乱而模糊。一种奇怪的多重感觉抓住了我，我同时看到、感觉到、听到、闻到。事实上，我花了很长时间才学会区分各种感官的运作。我记得，越来越强的光线压迫着我的神经，我不得不闭上眼睛。黑暗笼罩着我，困扰着我，但我几乎没有感觉到这一点，当我睁开眼睛时，正如我现在所想，光明再次倾注在我身上。我走着走着，我相信，我已经下山了，但我很快就发现我的感觉发生了巨大的变化。之前，黑暗和不透明的物体包围着我，我无法触摸或看到；现在，我的身体被黑暗和不透明的物体所包围。但现在我发现我可以自由地漫步，没有任何障碍是我无法克服或避免的。光线对我来说越来越压抑，走着走着，热气让我感到疲倦，我寻找一个可以遮荫的地方。这是因戈尔施塔特附近的森林；我躺在小溪边休息，直到感到饥饿和口渴。这把我从近乎休眠的状态中唤醒，我吃了一些挂在树上或地上的浆果。我到小溪边解渴，然后躺下，睡意全无。

‘It was dark when I awoke; I felt cold also, and half frightened, as it were, instinctively, finding myself so desolate. Before I had quitted your apartment, on a sensation of cold, I had covered myself with some clothes, but these were insufficient to secure me from the dews of night. I was a poor, helpless, miserable wretch; I knew, and could distinguish, nothing; but feeling pain invade me on all sides, I sat down and wept.
“我醒来时天已经黑了；我也感到寒冷，甚至可以说是有点害怕，本能地发现自己如此荒凉。在离开你的公寓之前，我感到寒冷，我给自己盖了一些衣服，但这些不足以让我免受夜晚的露水的侵害。我是一个可怜、无助、悲惨的人；我什么都不知道，也无法辨别；但我感到四面八方的疼痛袭来，我坐下来哭泣。

‘Soon a gentle light stole over the heavens and gave me a sensation of pleasure. I started up and beheld a radiant form rise from among the trees.* [*The moon] I gazed with a kind of wonder. It moved slowly, but it enlightened my path, and I again went out in search of berries. I was still cold when under one of the trees I found a huge cloak, with which I covered myself, and sat down upon the ground. No distinct ideas occupied my mind; all was confused. I felt light, and hunger, and thirst, and darkness; innumerable sounds rang in my ears, and on all sides various scents saluted me; the only object that I could distinguish was the bright moon, and I fixed my eyes on that with pleasure.
“很快，一道柔和的光芒掠过天空，给我一种愉悦的感觉。我惊跳起来，看到一个光芒四射的身影从树林中升起。* [*月亮]我带着一种惊奇的目光凝视着。它移动得很慢，但它照亮了我的道路，我再次出去寻找浆果。当我在一棵树下发现一件巨大的斗篷时，我仍然很冷，我用它盖住自己，然后坐在地上。我的脑子里没有任何明确的想法；一切都变得混乱了。我感到光明、饥饿、干渴和黑暗；耳边响起无数的声音，四面八方都有各种气味向我致敬。我唯一能辨认出的物体就是明月，我高兴地注视着它。

‘Several changes of day and night passed, and the orb of night had greatly lessened, when I began to distinguish my sensations from each other. I gradually saw plainly the clear stream that supplied me with drink and the trees that shaded me with their foliage. I was delighted when I first discovered that a pleasant sound, which often saluted my ears, proceeded from the throats of the little winged animals who had often intercepted the light from my eyes. I began also to observe, with greater accuracy, the forms that surrounded me and to perceive the boundaries of the radiant roof of light which canopied me. Sometimes I tried to imitate the pleasant songs of the birds but was unable. Sometimes I wished to express my sensations in my own mode, but the uncouth and inarticulate sounds which broke from me frightened me into silence again.
‘白天和黑夜的变化已经过去了，黑夜的范围也大大缩小了，当我开始区分自己的感觉时。我渐渐看清了为我提供饮料的清澈小溪和为我遮荫的树木。当我第一次发现那些经常拦截我眼睛的光的小翅膀动物的喉咙里发出一种经常向我的耳朵致敬的悦耳声音时，我很高兴。我也开始更准确地观察我周围的形状，并感知覆盖我的光芒四射的屋顶的边界。有时我试图模仿鸟儿悦耳的歌声，但却做不到。有时我想用自己的方式表达我的感受，但从我嘴里传出的粗鲁、不善言辞的声音又把我吓得沉默不语。

‘The moon had disappeared from the night, and again, with a lessened form, showed itself, while I still remained in the forest. My sensations had by this time become distinct, and my mind received every day additional ideas. My eyes became accustomed to the light and to perceive objects in their right forms; I distinguished the insect from the herb, and by degrees, one herb from another. I found that the sparrow uttered none but harsh notes, whilst those of the blackbird and thrush were sweet and enticing.
“月亮从夜色中消失了，又以缩小的形状再次出现，而我仍然留在森林里。此时我的感觉已经变得清晰起来，我的大脑每天都会收到更多的想法。我的眼睛逐渐习惯了光线并以正确的形式感知物体。我区分了昆虫和药草，并逐渐区分了一种药草和另一种药草。我发现麻雀只发出刺耳的声音，而画眉鸟和画眉的声音甜美而诱人。

‘One day, when I was oppressed by cold, I found a fire which had been left by some wandering beggars, and was overcome with delight at the warmth I experienced from it. In my joy I thrust my hand into the live embers, but quickly drew it out again with a cry of pain. How strange, I thought, that the same cause should produce such opposite effects! I examined the materials of the fire, and to my joy found it to be composed of wood. I quickly collected some branches, but they were wet and would not burn. I was pained at this and sat still watching the operation of the fire. The wet wood which I had placed near the heat dried and itself became inflamed. I reflected on this, and by touching the various branches, I discovered the cause and busied myself in collecting a great quantity of wood, that I might dry it and have a plentiful supply of fire. When night came on and brought sleep with it, I was in the greatest fear lest my fire should be extinguished. I covered it carefully with dry wood and leaves and placed wet branches upon it; and then, spreading my cloak, I lay on the ground and sank into sleep.
有一天，当我被寒冷所压迫时，我发现了一些流浪乞丐留下的火，并为我从中感受到的温暖而感到高兴。我欣喜若狂，把手伸进了熊熊的余烬中，但很快又痛苦地叫了一声，又把手抽了出来。我想，多么奇怪啊，同样的原因竟然会产生如此相反的结果！我检查了火的材质，令我高兴的是，它是由木头制成的。我赶紧收集了一些树枝，但它们是湿的，不会燃烧。我对此感到很痛苦，一动不动地坐着看着火势。我放在热源附近的湿木头干了，本身就发炎了。我想了想，摸了摸各个树枝，发现了原因，便忙着收集大量的木头，以便将其晒干，以备充足的火源。当夜幕降临并带来睡眠时，我非常害怕，生怕我的火会被扑灭。我小心翼翼地用干木头和树叶覆盖它，并在上面放上湿树枝。然后，我铺开斗篷，躺在地上睡着了。

‘It was morning when I awoke, and my first care was to visit the fire. I uncovered it, and a gentle breeze quickly fanned it into a flame. I observed this also and contrived a fan of branches, which roused the embers when they were nearly extinguished. When night came again I found, with pleasure, that the fire gave light as well as heat and that the discovery of this element was useful to me in my food, for I found some of the offals that the travellers had left had been roasted, and tasted much more savoury than the berries I gathered from the trees. I tried, therefore, to dress my food in the same manner, placing it on the live embers. I found that the berries were spoiled by this operation, and the nuts and roots much improved.
“我醒来时是早上，我首先关心的是去看看火场。我揭开它，一阵微风很快就把它煽成了火焰。我也观察到了这一点，并设计了一把树枝扇，当余烬即将熄灭时，它会唤醒它们。当夜幕再次降临时，我高兴地发现火既能发光也能产生热量，这种元素的发现对我的食物很有用，因为我发现旅行者留下的一些内脏已经被烤过，尝起来比我从树上采摘的浆果美味得多。因此，我尝试以同样的方式来处理我的食物，将其放在生火上。我发现浆果因这次操作而变质了，而坚果和根类则好多了。

‘Food, however, became scarce, and I often spent the whole day searching in vain for a few acorns to assuage the pangs of hunger. When I found this, I resolved to quit the place that I had hitherto inhabited, to seek for one where the few wants I experienced would be more easily satisfied. In this emigration I exceedingly lamented the loss of the fire which I had obtained through accident and knew not how to reproduce it. I gave several hours to the serious consideration of this difficulty, but I was obliged to relinquish all attempt to supply it, and wrapping myself up in my cloak, I struck across the wood towards the setting sun. I passed three days in these rambles and at length discovered the open country. A great fall of snow had taken place the night before, and the fields were of one uniform white; the appearance was disconsolate, and I found my feet chilled by the cold damp substance that covered the ground.
“然而，食物变得稀缺，我常常一整天都徒劳地寻找一些橡子来缓解饥饿。当我发现这一点时，我决定离开我迄今为止居住的地方，去寻找一个更容易满足我所经历的少数愿望的地方。在这次移居中，我对失去偶然得到的火种感到非常悲痛，而且不知道如何重现它。我花了几个小时认真考虑这个困难，但我不得不放弃所有提供它的尝试，我把自己裹在斗篷里，穿过树林向夕阳走去。我在这些漫步中度过了三天，终于发现了这片开阔的乡村。前一天晚上下了一场大雪，田野一片洁白。看上去很沮丧，我发现我的脚被覆盖在地面上的冰冷潮湿的物质冻住了。

‘It was about seven in the morning, and I longed to obtain food and shelter; at length I perceived a small hut, on a rising ground, which had doubtless been built for the convenience of some shepherd. This was a new sight to me, and I examined the structure with great curiosity. Finding the door open, I entered. An old man sat in it, near a fire, over which he was preparing his breakfast. He turned on hearing a noise, and perceiving me, shrieked loudly, and quitting the hut, ran across the fields with a speed of which his debilitated form hardly appeared capable. His appearance, different from any I had ever before seen, and his flight somewhat surprised me. But I was enchanted by the appearance of the hut; here the snow and rain could not penetrate; the ground was dry; and it presented to me then as exquisite and divine a retreat as Pandemonium appeared to the demons of hell after their sufferings in the lake of fire. I greedily devoured the remnants of the shepherd’s breakfast, which consisted of bread, cheese, milk, and wine; the latter, however, I did not like. Then, overcome by fatigue, I lay down among some straw and fell asleep.
“当时大约是早上七点，我渴望获得食物和住所；最后，我在一块高地上看到了一座小茅屋，这无疑是为了方便某个牧羊人而建的。这对我来说是一个新的景象，我怀着极大的好奇心检查了这个结构。发现门开着，我就进去了。一位老人坐在里面，靠近火堆，正在准备早餐。他听到一声响动，发现了我，大声尖叫，离开了小屋，跑过田野，速度之快让他虚弱的身体几乎无法跑出。他的外表与我以前见过的任何人都不同，他的飞行让我有些惊讶。但小屋的外观让我着迷。这里雪雨无法渗透；地面干燥；当时，它为我提供了一个精致而神圣的避难所，就像地狱的恶魔在火湖中受苦后出现的混乱一样。我狼吞虎咽地吃掉了牧羊人剩下的早餐，里面有面包、奶酪、牛奶和酒；然而，后者我不喜欢。然后，我疲惫不堪，躺在稻草堆里睡着了。

‘It was noon when I awoke, and allured by the warmth of the sun, which shone brightly on the white ground, I determined to recommence my travels; and, depositing the remains of the peasant’s breakfast in a wallet I found, I proceeded across the fields for several hours, until at sunset I arrived at a village. How miraculous did this appear! the huts, the neater cottages, and stately houses engaged my admiration by turns. The vegetables in the gardens, the milk and cheese that I saw placed at the windows of some of the cottages, allured my appetite. One of the best of these I entered, but I had hardly placed my foot within the door before the children shrieked, and one of the women fainted. The whole village was roused; some fled, some attacked me, until, grievously bruised by stones and many other kinds of missile weapons, I escaped to the open country and fearfully took refuge in a low hovel, quite bare, and making a wretched appearance after the palaces I had beheld in the village. This hovel however, joined a cottage of a neat and pleasant appearance, but after my late dearly bought experience, I dared not enter it. My place of refuge was constructed of wood, but so low that I could with difficulty sit upright in it. No wood, however, was placed on the earth, which formed the floor, but it was dry; and although the wind entered it by innumerable chinks, I found it an agreeable asylum from the snow and rain.
“当我醒来时已是中午，被阳光照在白色大地上的温暖所吸引，我决定重新开始我的旅行；我把剩下的农民早餐放进我找到的钱包里，穿过田野几个小时，直到日落时到达一个村庄。这看起来多么神奇啊！小屋、更整洁的小屋和雄伟的房屋轮流引起我的钦佩。花园里的蔬菜，我看到一些小屋窗户上放的牛奶和奶酪，勾起了我的胃口。我进入了其中最好的一间，但我的脚刚踏进门，孩子们就尖叫起来，其中一名妇女晕倒了。整个村子都沸腾了；有些人逃跑了，有些人袭击了我，直到我被石头和许多其他类型的导弹武器严重擦伤，我才逃到空旷的乡村，害怕地躲进一间低矮的小屋里，那里空无一人，在我见过的宫殿之后显得很可怜。在村里。这间小屋却是连着一座小屋，看上去整洁宜人，但经过我迟来的重金体验，我不敢进去了。我的避难所是用木头建造的，但很低，我很难在里面坐直。然而，构成地板的泥土上并没有放置木头，但地面是干燥的。虽然风从无数的缝隙中吹进来，但我发现它是一个躲避风雪的宜人避难所。

‘Here, then, I retreated and lay down happy to have found a shelter, however miserable, from the inclemency of the season, and still more from the barbarity of man. As soon as morning dawned I crept from my kennel, that I might view the adjacent cottage and discover if I could remain in the habitation I had found. It was situated against the back of the cottage and surrounded on the sides which were exposed by a pig sty and a clear pool of water. One part was open, and by that I had crept in; but now I covered every crevice by which I might be perceived with stones and wood, yet in such a manner that I might move them on occasion to pass out; all the light I enjoyed came through the sty, and that was sufficient for me.
“然后，我在这里撤退并躺下，很高兴找到了一个庇护所，无论多么悲惨，都可以避开严酷的季节，更远离人类的野蛮行径。天一亮，我就从我的狗窝里爬出来，看看邻近的小屋，看看我是否可以留在我找到的住处。它位于小屋的后面，周围有一个猪圈和一个清澈的水池。有一部分是敞开的，我就从那里爬了进去。但现在我用石头和木头覆盖了每一个可以看到我的缝隙，但这样的方式有时我可能会移动它们，让它们昏过去。我喜欢的所有光线都来自猪圈，这对我来说就足够了。

‘Having thus arranged my dwelling and carpeted it with clean straw, I retired, for I saw the figure of a man at a distance, and I remembered too well my treatment the night before to trust myself in his power. I had first, however, provided for my sustenance for that day by a loaf of coarse bread, which I purloined, and a cup with which I could drink more conveniently than from my hand of the pure water which flowed by my retreat. The floor was a little raised, so that it was kept perfectly dry, and by its vicinity to the chimney of the cottage it was tolerably warm.
“这样安排好我的住所，并铺上干净的稻草后，我就退休了，因为我在远处看到了一个人的身影，我清楚地记得前一天晚上我受到的待遇，不敢相信他的力量。不过，我首先准备了一条偷来的粗面包来维持当天的生活，还有一只杯子，用它喝比从我手里喝我撤退时流淌的纯净水更方便。地板稍微抬高，因此保持完全干燥，而且靠近小屋的烟囱，温度还算温暖。

‘Being thus provided, I resolved to reside in this hovel until something should occur which might alter my determination. It was indeed a paradise compared to the bleak forest, my former residence, the rain-dropping branches, and dank earth. I ate my breakfast with pleasure and was about to remove a plank to procure myself a little water when I heard a step, and looking through a small chink, I beheld a young creature, with a pail on her head, passing before my hovel. The girl was young and of gentle demeanour, unlike what I have since found cottagers and farmhouse servants to be. Yet she was meanly dressed, a coarse blue petticoat and a linen jacket being her only garb; her fair hair was plaited but not adorned: she looked patient yet sad. I lost sight of her, and in about a quarter of an hour she returned bearing the pail, which was now partly filled with milk. As she walked along, seemingly incommoded by the burden, a young man met her, whose countenance expressed a deeper despondence. Uttering a few sounds with an air of melancholy, he took the pail from her head and bore it to the cottage himself. She followed, and they disappeared. Presently I saw the young man again, with some tools in his hand, cross the field behind the cottage; and the girl was also busied, sometimes in the house and sometimes in the yard.
“有了这样的安排，我决定住在这个小屋里，直到发生一些可能改变我决定的事情。与荒凉的森林、我的故居、雨滴的树枝、潮湿的大地相比，这里确实是一个世外桃源。我高兴地吃完早饭，正准备搬开木板去取点水，突然听到脚步声，透过一个小缝隙，我看到一个年轻的生物，头上顶着一个水桶，从我的小屋前经过。这个女孩很年轻，举止温柔，与我后来发现的佃农和农舍仆人不同。然而她衣着简陋，一件粗糙的蓝色衬裙和一件亚麻夹克是她唯一的服装。她金色的头发编成辫子，但没有装饰：她看上去耐心又悲伤。我看不见她了，大约一刻钟后，她带着桶回来了，桶里现在装满了部分牛奶。当她走着，似乎因重担而感到不便时，一个年轻人遇见了她，他的脸上流露出更深的沮丧。他忧郁地嘟哝了几声，从她头上接过水桶，亲自拎到了小屋里。她跟着，他们就消失了。不久，我又看到那个年轻人，手里拿着一些工具，穿过小屋后面的田野。而女孩也很忙碌，有时在屋里，有时在院子里。

‘On examining my dwelling, I found that one of the windows of the cottage had formerly occupied a part of it, but the panes had been filled up with wood. In one of these was a small and almost imperceptible chink through which the eye could just penetrate. Through this crevice a small room was visible, whitewashed and clean but very bare of furniture. In one corner, near a small fire, sat an old man, leaning his head on his hands in a disconsolate attitude. The young girl was occupied in arranging the cottage; but presently she took something out of a drawer, which employed her hands, and she sat down beside the old man, who, taking up an instrument, began to play and to produce sounds sweeter than the voice of the thrush or the nightingale. It was a lovely sight, even to me, poor wretch who had never beheld aught beautiful before. The silver hair and benevolent countenance of the aged cottager won my reverence, while the gentle manners of the girl enticed my love. He played a sweet mournful air which I perceived drew tears from the eyes of his amiable companion, of which the old man took no notice, until she sobbed audibly; he then pronounced a few sounds, and the fair creature, leaving her work, knelt at his feet. He raised her and smiled with such kindness and affection that I felt sensations of a peculiar and overpowering nature; they were a mixture of pain and pleasure, such as I had never before experienced, either from hunger or cold, warmth or food; and I withdrew from the window, unable to bear these emotions.
“在检查我的住所时，我发现小屋的一扇窗户以前占据了其中的一部分，但窗玻璃已被木头填满。其中一个有一个小而几乎难以察觉的缝隙，眼睛只能从其中透过。透过这个缝隙，可以看到一间小房间，粉刷成白色，很干净，但没有什么家具。在一个角落里，靠近一堆小火，坐着一位老人，他双手撑着头，一副忧郁的样子。年轻的女孩正忙着布置小屋。但不久她从抽屉里拿出了一些东西，用她的双手，然后她坐在老人身边，老人拿起乐器，开始演奏并发出比画眉或夜莺的声音更甜美的声音。即使对于我这个从未见过美丽事物的可怜人来说，这也是一个美丽的景象。老佃夫的银发和慈祥的面容赢得了我的敬意，而女孩的温柔举止则吸引了我的喜爱。他演奏了一种甜美而悲伤的曲子，我觉得这让他和蔼可亲的同伴眼里流下了泪水，老人没有注意到，直到她大声抽泣。然后他发出了几声声音，美丽的生物就放下手中的工作，跪在他脚边。他扶起她，微笑着，充满善意和深情，让我感到一种奇特而难以抗拒的感觉。它们是痛苦和快乐的混合体，是我以前从未经历过的，无论是饥饿还是寒冷，温暖还是食物；我无法忍受这些情绪，从窗户退了出去。

‘Soon after this the young man returned, bearing on his shoulders a load of wood. The girl met him at the door, helped to relieve him of his burden, and taking some of the fuel into the cottage, placed it on the fire; then she and the youth went apart into a nook of the cottage, and he showed her a large loaf and a piece of cheese. She seemed pleased and went into the garden for some roots and plants, which she placed in water, and then upon the fire. She afterwards continued her work, whilst the young man went into the garden and appeared busily employed in digging and pulling up roots. After he had been employed thus about an hour, the young woman joined him and they entered the cottage together.
不久之后，年轻人回来了，肩上扛着一担木头。女孩在门口迎接他，帮他减轻负担，并拿了一些燃料到小屋里，放在火上；然后她和年轻人分开，走进小屋的一个角落，他给她看了一块大面包和一块奶酪。她似乎很高兴，走进花园寻找一些树根和植物，将它们放入水中，然后放在火上。随后她继续干活，而年轻人则走进花园，忙着挖掘和拔根。在他工作了大约一个小时后，年轻女子加入了他，他们一起进入了小屋。

‘The old man had, in the meantime, been pensive, but on the appearance of his companions he assumed a more cheerful air, and they sat down to eat. The meal was quickly dispatched. The young woman was again occupied in arranging the cottage, the old man walked before the cottage in the sun for a few minutes, leaning on the arm of the youth. Nothing could exceed in beauty the contrast between these two excellent creatures. One was old, with silver hairs and a countenance beaming with benevolence and love; the younger was slight and graceful in his figure, and his features were moulded with the finest symmetry, yet his eyes and attitude expressed the utmost sadness and despondency. The old man returned to the cottage, and the youth, with tools different from those he had used in the morning, directed his steps across the fields.
'此时，老人一直在沉思，但看到同伴们的出现，他的神情变得更加愉快，他们坐下来吃饭。饭菜很快就送出去了。年轻女子又忙着布置小屋，老人在阳光下的小屋前走了几分钟，靠在年轻人的手臂上。没有什么比这两种优秀生物之间的美丽对比更美丽的了。一个年老，满头银发，面带慈爱；弟弟身材瘦长，五官匀称，但眼神和神态却透露出极度的悲伤和沮丧。老人回到小屋，年轻人带着与早上不同的工具，迈着脚步穿过田野。

‘Night quickly shut in, but to my extreme wonder, I found that the cottagers had a means of prolonging light by the use of tapers, and was delighted to find that the setting of the sun did not put an end to the pleasure I experienced in watching my human neighbours. In the evening the young girl and her companion were employed in various occupations which I did not understand; and the old man again took up the instrument which produced the divine sounds that had enchanted me in the morning. So soon as he had finished, the youth began, not to play, but to utter sounds that were monotonous, and neither resembling the harmony of the old man’s instrument nor the songs of the birds; I since found that he read aloud, but at that time I knew nothing of the science of words or letters.
“夜幕很快就降临了，但令我极其惊奇的是，我发现村民们有一种方法，可以用细蜡烛来延长光线，并且很高兴地发现，太阳的落山并没有结束我所经历的快乐观察我的人类邻居。晚上，年轻女孩和她的同伴从事各种我不理解的工作。老人又拿起了乐器，它发出了早上令我着迷的神圣声音。他一说完，年轻人就开始了，不是演奏，而是发出单调的声音，既不像老人乐器的和谐，也不像鸟儿的歌声；后来我发现他会大声朗读，但当时我对文字或字母的科学一无所知。

‘The family, after having been thus occupied for a short time, extinguished their lights and retired, as I conjectured, to rest.’
“正如我推测的那样，一家人忙了一会儿之后，就熄灭了灯，回去休息了。”

Chapter 12
第12章

‘I lay on my straw, but I could not sleep. I thought of the occurrences of the day. What chiefly struck me was the gentle manners of these people, and I longed to join them, but dared not. I remembered too well the treatment I had suffered the night before from the barbarous villagers, and resolved, whatever course of conduct I might hereafter think it right to pursue, that for the present I would remain quietly in my hovel, watching and endeavouring to discover the motives which influenced their actions.
“我躺在稻草上，但无法入睡。我想起了当天发生的事情。最让我印象深刻的是这些人的温和举止，我很想加入他们，但又不敢。我清楚地记得前一天晚上我所遭受的野蛮村民的待遇，并决定，无论我今后认为采取什么正确的行为方针，目前我都会安静地留在我的小屋里，观察并努力发现影响他们行为的动机。

‘The cottagers arose the next morning before the sun. The young woman arranged the cottage and prepared the food, and the youth departed after the first meal.
第二天早上，村民们在太阳出来之前就起床了。少妇布置了小屋，准备了食物，青年吃完第一顿饭就离开了。

‘This day was passed in the same routine as that which preceded it. The young man was constantly employed out of doors, and the girl in various laborious occupations within. The old man, whom I soon perceived to be blind, employed his leisure hours on his instrument or in contemplation. Nothing could exceed the love and respect which the younger cottagers exhibited towards their venerable companion. They performed towards him every little office of affection and duty with gentleness, and he rewarded them by his benevolent smiles.
“这一天的过法与前一天一样。年轻人经常在户外工作，而女孩则在室内从事各种繁重的工作。我很快就发现这位老人双目失明，他把闲暇时间都花在演奏乐器或沉思上。没有什么比年轻的村民们对他们可敬的同伴所表现出的爱和尊重更重要的了。他们对他温柔地履行着每一项关爱和职责，而他则以仁慈的微笑回报他们。

‘They were not entirely happy. The young man and his companion often went apart and appeared to weep. I saw no cause for their unhappiness, but I was deeply affected by it. If such lovely creatures were miserable, it was less strange that I, an imperfect and solitary being, should be wretched. Yet why were these gentle beings unhappy? They possessed a delightful house (for such it was in my eyes) and every luxury; they had a fire to warm them when chill and delicious viands when hungry; they were dressed in excellent clothes; and, still more, they enjoyed one another’s company and speech, interchanging each day looks of affection and kindness. What did their tears imply? Did they really express pain? I was at first unable to solve these questions, but perpetual attention and time explained to me many appearances which were at first enigmatic.
“他们并不完全高兴。年轻人和他的同伴经常分开，似乎在哭泣。我看不出他们有什么不高兴的原因，但我却深受其影响。如果这些可爱的生灵都是悲惨的，那么我这个不完美而孤独的人会如此悲惨也就不足为奇了。但为什么这些温柔的人却不高兴呢？他们拥有一栋令人愉快的房子（在我眼中就是这样）和一切奢侈品。天冷时，他们有火取暖；饥饿时，他们有美味的食物；他们穿着华丽的衣服；而且，更重要的是，他们喜欢彼此的陪伴和交谈，每天交换着深情和友善的眼神。他们的眼泪意味着什么？他们真的表达了痛苦吗？起初我无法解决这些问题，但持续的关注和时间向我解释了许多起初令人费解的现象。

‘A considerable period elapsed before I discovered one of the causes of the uneasiness of this amiable family: it was poverty, and they suffered that evil in a very distressing degree. Their nourishment consisted entirely of the vegetables of their garden and the milk of one cow, which gave very little during the winter, when its masters could scarcely procure food to support it. They often, I believe, suffered the pangs of hunger very poignantly, especially the two younger cottagers, for several times they placed food before the old man when they reserved none for themselves.
“过了相当长的一段时间，我才发现这个和蔼可亲的家庭不安的原因之一是：贫穷，他们遭受了非常痛苦的痛苦。他们的营养完全由花园里的蔬菜和一头奶牛的牛奶组成，而在冬天，奶牛的供给很少，因为当时它的主人几乎无法获得食物来维持它们。我相信，他们经常遭受饥饿的折磨，特别是两个年轻的村民，有好几次他们把食物放在老人面前，而他们却没有给自己保留食物。

‘This trait of kindness moved me sensibly. I had been accustomed, during the night, to steal a part of their store for my own consumption, but when I found that in doing this I inflicted pain on the cottagers, I abstained and satisfied myself with berries, nuts, and roots which I gathered from a neighbouring wood.
“这种善良的特质让我感动不已。我已经习惯了，在晚上，偷他们的一部分商店供自己消费，但当我发现这样做给村民带来了痛苦时，我就放弃了，只吃浆果、坚果和树根来满足自己。从附近的树林里采集来的。

‘I discovered also another means through which I was enabled to assist their labours. I found that the youth spent a great part of each day in collecting wood for the family fire, and during the night I often took his tools, the use of which I quickly discovered, and brought home firing sufficient for the consumption of several days.
“我还发现了另一种方式，通过这种方式我能够协助他们的工作。我发现这个年轻人每天花很大一部分时间为家里生火收集木材，晚上我经常拿走他的工具，我很快就发现了这些工具的用途，并带回家足够几天消耗的柴火。

‘I remember, the first time that I did this, the young woman, when she opened the door in the morning, appeared greatly astonished on seeing a great pile of wood on the outside. She uttered some words in a loud voice, and the youth joined her, who also expressed surprise. I observed, with pleasure, that he did not go to the forest that day, but spent it in repairing the cottage and cultivating the garden.
“我记得，我第一次这样做时，年轻女子早上打开门时，看到外面有一大堆木头，显得非常惊讶。她大声说了几句话，青年也跟着加入，青年也露出惊讶之色。我高兴地发现，他那天并没有去森林，而是把时间花在了修缮小屋和培育花园上。

‘By degrees I made a discovery of still greater moment. I found that these people possessed a method of communicating their experience and feelings to one another by articulate sounds. I perceived that the words they spoke sometimes produced pleasure or pain, smiles or sadness, in the minds and countenances of the hearers. This was indeed a godlike science, and I ardently desired to become acquainted with it. But I was baffled in every attempt I made for this purpose. Their pronunciation was quick, and the words they uttered, not having any apparent connection with visible objects, I was unable to discover any clue by which I could unravel the mystery of their reference. By great application, however, and after having remained during the space of several revolutions of the moon in my hovel, I discovered the names that were given to some of the most familiar objects of discourse; I learned and applied the words, ‘fire,’ ‘milk,’ ‘bread,’ and ‘wood.’ I learned also the names of the cottagers themselves. The youth and his companion had each of them several names, but the old man had only one, which was ‘father.’ The girl was called ‘sister’ or ‘Agatha,’ and the youth ‘Felix,’ ‘brother,’ or ‘son.’ I cannot describe the delight I felt when I learned the ideas appropriated to each of these sounds and was able to pronounce them. I distinguished several other words without being able as yet to understand or apply them, such as ‘good,’ ‘dearest,’ unhappy.
“渐渐地，我发现了更重要的时刻。我发现这些人拥有一种通过清晰的声音相互交流经验和感受的方法。我发现他们所说的话有时会在听众的心里和表情上产生快乐或痛苦、微笑或悲伤。这确实是一门神学，我非常想了解它。但我为此目的所做的每一次尝试都感到困惑。他们的发音很快，而且他们所说的单词与可见物体没有任何明显的联系，我无法发现任何线索来解开他们所指的谜团。然而，通过大量的应用，在我的小屋里呆了几次月球公转的时间后，我发现了一些最熟悉的谈话对象的名称；我学会并应用了“火”、“牛奶”、“面包”和“木头”这些词。我还学会了村民们的名字。青年和他的同伴都有好几个名字，但老人只有一个，那就是“父亲”。女孩被称为“姐姐”或“阿加莎”，青年则被称为“菲利克斯”、“兄弟”或“阿加莎”。 “儿子。”当我了解到这些声音的对应概念并能够发音时，我无法描述我所感受到的喜悦。我分辨出了其他几个词，但还无法理解或应用它们，比如“好”、“最亲爱的”、“不快乐”。

‘I spent the winter in this manner. The gentle manners and beauty of the cottagers greatly endeared them to me; when they were unhappy, I felt depressed; when they rejoiced, I sympathized in their joys. I saw few human beings besides them, and if any other happened to enter the cottage, their harsh manners and rude gait only enhanced to me the superior accomplishments of my friends. The old man, I could perceive, often endeavoured to encourage his children, as sometimes I found that he called them, to cast off their melancholy. He would talk in a cheerful accent, with an expression of goodness that bestowed pleasure even upon me. Agatha listened with respect, her eyes sometimes filled with tears, which she endeavoured to wipe away unperceived; but I generally found that her countenance and tone were more cheerful after having listened to the exhortations of her father. It was not thus with Felix. He was always the saddest of the group, and even to my unpractised senses, he appeared to have suffered more deeply than his friends. But if his countenance was more sorrowful, his voice was more cheerful than that of his sister, especially when he addressed the old man.
‘我就这样度过了冬天。村民们的温柔举止和美丽使我非常喜爱他们。当他们不高兴时，我感到沮丧；当他们不高兴时，我感到沮丧。当他们喜乐的时候，我也同情他们的喜乐。除了他们之外，我几乎没有看到其他人，如果有其他人碰巧进入小屋，他们粗鲁的举止和粗鲁的步态只会增强我朋友们的卓越成就。我看得出来，这位老人经常努力鼓励他的孩子们（有时我发现他这样称呼他们），以摆脱他们的忧郁。他说话的口音很愉快，脸上带着善良的表情，连我都感到高兴。阿加莎满怀敬意地听着，她的眼里有时充满泪水，她努力不自觉地把泪水擦掉。但我总体上发现，听了父亲的劝告后，她的脸色和语气都开朗了一些。菲利克斯的情况却并非如此。他总是这群人中最悲伤的一个，甚至在我不熟练的感觉中，他似乎比他的朋友们承受的痛苦更深。不过，虽然他的表情更加悲伤，但他的声音却比他姐姐更加欢快，尤其是当他对老人说话的时候。

‘I could mention innumerable instances which, although slight, marked the dispositions of these amiable cottagers. In the midst of poverty and want, Felix carried with pleasure to his sister the first little white flower that peeped out from beneath the snowy ground. Early in the morning, before she had risen, he cleared away the snow that obstructed her path to the milk-house, drew water from the well, and brought the wood from the outhouse, where, to his perpetual astonishment, he found his store always replenished by an invisible hand. In the day, I believe, he worked sometimes for a neighbouring farmer, because he often went forth and did not return until dinner, yet brought no wood with him. At other times he worked in the garden, but as there was little to do in the frosty season, he read to the old man and Agatha.
“我可以举出无数的例子，尽管这些例子很轻微，但却标志着这些和蔼可亲的农夫的性格。在贫困和匮乏之中，菲利克斯高兴地把第一朵从雪地下面探出头来的小白花带给了他的妹妹。一大早，在她起床之前，他清除了她去牛奶房路上的积雪，从井里打了水，从外屋带来了木材，令他永远惊讶的是，他在那里找到了他的商店。总是由一只看不见的手补充。我相信，白天他有时会为附近的一个农民干活，因为他经常出去吃晚饭才回来，但他却没有带木头。其他时候他在花园里干活，但由于霜冻季节没什么可做的，他就读书给老人和阿加莎听。

‘This reading had puzzled me extremely at first, but by degrees I discovered that he uttered many of the same sounds when he read as when he talked. I conjectured, therefore, that he found on the paper signs for speech which he understood, and I ardently longed to comprehend these also; but how was that possible when I did not even understand the sounds for which they stood as signs? I improved, however, sensibly in this science, but not sufficiently to follow up any kind of conversation, although I applied my whole mind to the endeavour, for I easily perceived that, although I eagerly longed to discover myself to the cottagers, I ought not to make the attempt until I had first become master of their language, which knowledge might enable me to make them overlook the deformity of my figure, for with this also the contrast perpetually presented to my eyes had made me acquainted.
“起初，这种阅读让我非常困惑，但渐渐地，我发现他在阅读时发出的许多声音与说话时发出的声音相同。因此，我推测他在纸上发现了他能理解的语言符号，而我也热切地渴望理解这些符号；但当我什至不理解它们作为符号所代表的声音时，这怎么可能呢？然而，我在这门科学上有了明显的进步，但还不足以进行任何类型的对话，尽管我全身心投入到这项工作中，因为我很容易意识到，尽管我热切地渴望向村民们展示自己，但我应该在我第一次掌握他们的语言之前，不要尝试这样做，这种知识可能使我能够使他们忽视我身材的畸形，因为我眼前不断呈现的对比也让我熟悉了这一点。

‘I had admired the perfect forms of my cottagers—their grace, beauty, and delicate complexions; but how was I terrified when I viewed myself in a transparent pool! At first I started back, unable to believe that it was indeed I who was reflected in the mirror; and when I became fully convinced that I was in reality the monster that I am, I was filled with the bitterest sensations of despondence and mortification. Alas! I did not yet entirely know the fatal effects of this miserable deformity.
“我很欣赏我的村民们的完美身材——他们的优雅、美丽和精致的肤色；但当我看到自己身处透明的水池中时，我感到多么害怕！起初我猛地后退了一步，不敢相信镜子里映出的确实是我。当我完全确信自己就是现实中的怪物时，我充满了沮丧和屈辱的最痛苦的感觉。唉!我还不完全了解这种可怜的畸形的致命影响。

‘As the sun became warmer and the light of day longer, the snow vanished, and I beheld the bare trees and the black earth. From this time Felix was more employed, and the heart-moving indications of impending famine disappeared. Their food, as I afterwards found, was coarse, but it was wholesome; and they procured a sufficiency of it. Several new kinds of plants sprang up in the garden, which they dressed; and these signs of comfort increased daily as the season advanced.
“随着太阳变得越来越温暖，白昼越来越长，雪消失了，我看到了光秃秃的树木和黑色的土地。从那时起，菲利克斯的工作变得更加忙碌，饥荒即将来临的令人心动的迹象也消失了。后来我发现，他们的食物很粗糙，但很健康。他们获得了足够的资源。花园里长出了几种新植物，他们为花园进行了装饰。随着季节的推移，这些舒适的迹象每天都在增加。

‘The old man, leaning on his son, walked each day at noon, when it did not rain, as I found it was called when the heavens poured forth its waters. This frequently took place, but a high wind quickly dried the earth, and the season became far more pleasant than it had been.
“每天中午，当不下雨的时候，老人就靠着他的儿子走路，因为我发现天上倾泻出雨水时，人们就这样称呼它。这种情况经常发生，但一阵大风很快就把大地吹干了，这个季节变得比以前更加宜人。

‘My mode of life in my hovel was uniform. During the morning I attended the motions of the cottagers, and when they were dispersed in various occupations, I slept; the remainder of the day was spent in observing my friends. When they had retired to rest, if there was any moon or the night was star-light, I went into the woods and collected my own food and fuel for the cottage. When I returned, as often as it was necessary, I cleared their path from the snow and performed those offices that I had seen done by Felix. I afterwards found that these labours, performed by an invisible hand, greatly astonished them; and once or twice I heard them, on these occasions, utter the words ‘good spirit,’ ‘wonderful’; but I did not then understand the signification of these terms.
“我在小屋里的生活方式是统一的。早上，我参加了村民们的活动，当他们分散到各行各业时，我就睡觉了。这一天剩下的时间都用来观察我的朋友们。当他们休息时，如果有月亮或夜晚有星光，我就会走进树林，为小屋收集自己的食物和燃料。当我回来时，只要有必要，我就会清除他们路上的积雪，并执行那些我见过菲利克斯所做的工作。后来我发现这些劳动是由一只看不见的手完成的，这让他们大吃一惊。在这些场合，我有一两次听到他们说出“好精神”、“太棒了”这样的词。但当时我不明白这些术语的含义。

‘My thoughts now became more active, and I longed to discover the motives and feelings of these lovely creatures; I was inquisitive to know why Felix appeared so miserable and Agatha so sad. I thought (foolish wretch!) that it might be in my power to restore happiness to these deserving people. When I slept or was absent, the forms of the venerable blind father, the gentle Agatha, and the excellent Felix flitted before me. I looked upon them as superior beings who would be the arbiters of my future destiny. I formed in my imagination a thousand pictures of presenting myself to them, and their reception of me. I imagined that they would be disgusted, until, by my gentle demeanour and conciliating words, I should first win their favour and afterwards their love.
“我的思绪变得更加活跃，我渴望了解这些可爱生物的动机和感受；我很好奇为什么菲利克斯看起来那么痛苦，而阿加莎那么悲伤。我想（愚蠢的可怜虫！）我可能有能力为这些值得的人恢复幸福。当我睡着或不在时，可敬的盲人父亲、温柔的阿加莎和优秀的菲利克斯的身影在我面前掠过。我将他们视为优越的存在，他们将是我未来命运的仲裁者。我在想象中形成了一千张向他们展示自己以及他们接待我的画面。我想象着他们会感到厌恶，直到我以温柔的举止和安抚的话语，先赢得他们的好感，然后赢得他们的喜爱。

‘These thoughts exhilarated me and led me to apply with fresh ardour to the acquiring the art of language. My organs were indeed harsh, but supple; and although my voice was very unlike the soft music of their tones, yet I pronounced such words as I understood with tolerable ease. It was as the ass and the lap-dog; yet surely the gentle ass whose intentions were affectionate, although his manners were rude, deserved better treatment than blows and execration.
“这些想法让我兴奋不已，引导我以新的热情去学习语言艺术。我的器官确实粗糙，但又柔软；尽管我的声音与他们柔和的音乐音调很不一样，但我还是可以轻松地说出我所理解的单词。它就像驴子和哈巴狗一样；然而，尽管行为举止粗鲁，但意图充满感情的温柔驴子应该得到比殴打和咒骂更好的对待。

‘The pleasant showers and genial warmth of spring greatly altered the aspect of the earth. Men who before this change seemed to have been hid in caves dispersed themselves and were employed in various arts of cultivation. The birds sang in more cheerful notes, and the leaves began to bud forth on the trees. Happy, happy earth! Fit habitation for gods, which, so short a time before, was bleak, damp, and unwholesome. My spirits were elevated by the enchanting appearance of nature; the past was blotted from my memory, the present was tranquil, and the future gilded by bright rays of hope and anticipations of joy.’
“春天宜人的阵雨和和煦的温暖极大地改变了大地的面貌。在这次变化之前，那些似乎躲在山洞里的人分散了，从事各种修炼。鸟儿的歌声更加欢快，树上的叶子开始发芽。快乐，快乐的地球！适合神灵居住的地方，在不久之前，这里还是荒凉、潮湿、不卫生的。大自然迷人的景色使我精神振奋。过去已从我的记忆中消失，现在很平静，而未来则被明亮的希望和喜悦的期待镀上金色。

Chapter 13
第13章

‘I now hasten to the more moving part of my story. I shall relate events that impressed me with feelings which, from what I had been, have made me what I am.
“现在我要赶紧讲故事中更感人的部分了。我将讲述那些给我留下深刻印象的事件和感受，这些感受造就了现在的我。

‘Spring advanced rapidly; the weather became fine and the skies cloudless. It surprised me that what before was desert and gloomy should now bloom with the most beautiful flowers and verdure. My senses were gratified and refreshed by a thousand scents of delight and a thousand sights of beauty.
‘春天来得快；天气转晴，万里无云。让我惊讶的是，以前的沙漠和阴暗现在竟然开出了最美丽的花朵和翠绿。一千种喜悦的气味和一千种美丽的景象使我的感官感到满足和焕然一新。

‘It was on one of these days, when my cottagers periodically rested from labour—the old man played on his guitar, and the children listened to him—that I observed the countenance of Felix was melancholy beyond expression; he sighed frequently, and once his father paused in his music, and I conjectured by his manner that he inquired the cause of his son’s sorrow. Felix replied in a cheerful accent, and the old man was recommencing his music when someone tapped at the door.
“有一天，当我的村民定期休息时，老人弹着吉他，孩子们听他唱歌，我发现菲利克斯的面容忧郁得难以形容；他经常叹息，有一次他的父亲停止了音乐，我从他的态度推测他是在询问儿子悲伤的原因。菲利克斯用欢快的口音回答道，当老人重新开始演奏音乐时，有人敲门。

‘It was a lady on horseback, accompanied by a country-man as a guide. The lady was dressed in a dark suit and covered with a thick black veil. Agatha asked a question, to which the stranger only replied by pronouncing, in a sweet accent, the name of Felix. Her voice was musical but unlike that of either of my friends. On hearing this word, Felix came up hastily to the lady, who, when she saw him, threw up her veil, and I beheld a countenance of angelic beauty and expression. Her hair of a shining raven black, and curiously braided; her eyes were dark, but gentle, although animated; her features of a regular proportion, and her complexion wondrously fair, each cheek tinged with a lovely pink.
“这是一位骑在马背上的女士，由一位乡下男子作为向导陪伴。这位女士穿着深色西装，蒙着厚厚的黑色面纱。阿加莎问了一个问题，陌生人只是用甜美的口音念出了菲利克斯的名字来回答。她的声音很有音乐感，但与我的两个朋友不同。听到这句话，菲利克斯急忙走到那位女士面前，她一看到他，就掀开了面纱，我看到了天使般的美丽和表情。她的头发乌黑闪亮，编成奇怪的辫子。她的眼睛是黑色的，但很温柔，虽然充满活力。她的五官比例匀称，肤色白皙得惊人，脸颊上都泛着可爱的粉红色。

‘Felix seemed ravished with delight when he saw her, every trait of sorrow vanished from his face, and it instantly expressed a degree of ecstatic joy, of which I could hardly have believed it capable; his eyes sparkled, as his cheek flushed with pleasure; and at that moment I thought him as beautiful as the stranger. She appeared affected by different feelings; wiping a few tears from her lovely eyes, she held out her hand to Felix, who kissed it rapturously and called her, as well as I could distinguish, his sweet Arabian. She did not appear to understand him, but smiled. He assisted her to dismount, and dismissing her guide, conducted her into the cottage. Some conversation took place between him and his father, and the young stranger knelt at the old man’s feet and would have kissed his hand, but he raised her and embraced her affectionately.
“当菲利克斯看到她时，他似乎欣喜若狂，脸上所有的悲伤都消失了，立刻流露出某种程度的欣喜若狂，我简直不敢相信他能做到这一点；他的眼睛闪闪发亮，脸颊因喜悦而红润。那一刻我觉得他和陌生人一样美丽。她似乎受到了不同情感的影响；她擦掉可爱眼睛里的几滴泪水，向菲利克斯伸出手，菲利克斯欣喜若狂地吻了她的手，并按我的辨别能力称她为“他可爱的阿拉伯人”。她似乎没听懂他的话，只是笑了笑。他扶她下马，打发她的向导，带她走进小屋。他和他的父亲之间进行了一些交谈，年轻的陌生人跪在老人的脚边，本想亲吻他的手，但他却抬起了她，深情地拥抱了她。

‘I soon perceived that although the stranger uttered articulate sounds and appeared to have a language of her own, she was neither understood by nor herself understood the cottagers. They made many signs which I did not comprehend, but I saw that her presence diffused gladness through the cottage, dispelling their sorrow as the sun dissipates the morning mists. Felix seemed peculiarly happy and with smiles of delight welcomed his Arabian. Agatha, the ever-gentle Agatha, kissed the hands of the lovely stranger, and pointing to her brother, made signs which appeared to me to mean that he had been sorrowful until she came. Some hours passed thus, while they, by their countenances, expressed joy, the cause of which I did not comprehend. Presently I found, by the frequent recurrence of some sound which the stranger repeated after them, that she was endeavouring to learn their language; and the idea instantly occurred to me that I should make use of the same instructions to the same end. The stranger learned about twenty words at the first lesson; most of them, indeed, were those which I had before understood, but I profited by the others.
“我很快就发现，虽然这个陌生人能发出清晰的声音，而且似乎有自己的语言，但她既不被村民们理解，她自己也不明白。他们做出了许多我无法理解的手势，但我看到她的出现在小屋里散布了欢乐，就像太阳驱散了晨雾一样驱散了他们的悲伤。菲利克斯似乎特别高兴，带着喜悦的微笑欢迎他的阿拉伯人。阿加莎，永远温柔的阿加莎，亲吻了这位可爱的陌生人的手，并指着她的兄弟，做了一些手势，在我看来，这意味着他在她到来之前一直感到悲伤。几个小时就这样过去了，他们的脸上流露出喜悦的表情，但我不明白其中的原因。不久，我发现，陌生人在他们身后不断重复某些声音，表明她正在努力学习他们的语言；我立刻想到我应该使用相同的指令来达到相同的目的。陌生人在第一堂课上学到了大约二十个单词；事实上，其中大多数都是我以前理解过的，但我从其他的中受益匪浅。

‘As night came on, Agatha and the Arabian retired early. When they separated Felix kissed the hand of the stranger and said, ‘Good night sweet Safie.’ He sat up much longer, conversing with his father, and by the frequent repetition of her name I conjectured that their lovely guest was the subject of their conversation. I ardently desired to understand them, and bent every faculty towards that purpose, but found it utterly impossible.
夜幕降临时，阿加莎和阿拉伯人早早就休息了。当他们分开时，菲利克斯吻了陌生人的手，说：“晚安，亲爱的萨菲。”他坐得更久，与他的父亲交谈，通过频繁重复她的名字，我猜想他们可爱的客人就是他们的主题。对话。我热切地渴望理解它们，并竭尽全力去实现这个目的，但发现这是完全不可能的。

‘The next morning Felix went out to his work, and after the usual occupations of Agatha were finished, the Arabian sat at the feet of the old man, and taking his guitar, played some airs so entrancingly beautiful that they at once drew tears of sorrow and delight from my eyes. She sang, and her voice flowed in a rich cadence, swelling or dying away like a nightingale of the woods.
第二天早上，菲利克斯出去干活了，阿加莎的日常事务结束后，阿拉伯人坐在老人脚边，拿着吉他，弹奏了一些曲子，优美得令人着迷，立刻让人流泪。悲伤和喜悦从我的眼中流露出来。她唱歌，声音节奏丰富，时强时弱，就像树林里的夜莺一样。

‘When she had finished, she gave the guitar to Agatha, who at first declined it. She played a simple air, and her voice accompanied it in sweet accents, but unlike the wondrous strain of the stranger. The old man appeared enraptured and said some words which Agatha endeavoured to explain to Safie, and by which he appeared to wish to express that she bestowed on him the greatest delight by her music.
“当她完成后，她把吉他给了阿加莎，但阿加莎起初拒绝了。她弹奏的是一首简单的曲子，她的声音伴随着甜美的口音，但与陌生人奇妙的曲调不同。老人显得欣喜若狂，说了一些阿加莎努力向萨菲解释的话，他似乎想表达她的音乐给了他最大的快乐。

‘The days now passed as peaceably as before, with the sole alteration that joy had taken place of sadness in the countenances of my friends. Safie was always gay and happy; she and I improved rapidly in the knowledge of language, so that in two months I began to comprehend most of the words uttered by my protectors.
现在日子过得和以前一样平静，唯一的变化是我朋友们脸上的悲伤变成了欢乐。萨菲总是快乐而快乐。我和她的语言知识进步很快，两个月后我就开始理解我的保护者所说的大部分单词。

‘In the meanwhile also the black ground was covered with herbage, and the green banks interspersed with innumerable flowers, sweet to the scent and the eyes, stars of pale radiance among the moonlight woods; the sun became warmer, the nights clear and balmy; and my nocturnal rambles were an extreme pleasure to me, although they were considerably shortened by the late setting and early rising of the sun, for I never ventured abroad during daylight, fearful of meeting with the same treatment I had formerly endured in the first village which I entered.
与此同时，黑色的土地上也长满了草本植物，绿色的河岸上散布着无数的花朵，芳香四溢，赏心悦目，月光下的树林中闪烁着苍白的光芒；太阳变得更加温暖，夜晚晴朗而温暖。我的夜间漫步对我来说是一种极大的乐趣，尽管它们因太阳落山早起而大大缩短，因为我从未在白天冒险出国，害怕遇到我以前在第一个村庄所遭受的同样待遇我输入的。

‘My days were spent in close attention, that I might more speedily master the language; and I may boast that I improved more rapidly than the Arabian, who understood very little and conversed in broken accents, whilst I comprehended and could imitate almost every word that was spoken.
“我的每一天都在密切关注中度过，以便我可以更快地掌握这门语言；我可以夸耀说，我比阿拉伯人进步得更快，阿拉伯人听不懂，说话时口音很差，而我却能理解并模仿几乎每一个单词。

‘While I improved in speech, I also learned the science of letters as it was taught to the stranger, and this opened before me a wide field for wonder and delight.
“在我的言语能力得到提高的同时，我也学习了向陌生人传授的字母科学，这在我面前打开了一个充满惊奇和喜悦的广阔领域。

‘The book from which Felix instructed Safie was Volney’s Ruins of Empires. I should not have understood the purport of this book had not Felix, in reading it, given very minute explanations. He had chosen this work, he said, because the declamatory style was framed in imitation of the Eastern authors. Through this work I obtained a cursory knowledge of history and a view of the several empires at present existing in the world; it gave me an insight into the manners, governments, and religions of the different nations of the earth. I heard of the slothful Asiatics, of the stupendous genius and mental activity of the Grecians, of the wars and wonderful virtue of the early Romans—of their subsequent degenerating—of the decline of that mighty empire, of chivalry, Christianity, and kings. I heard of the discovery of the American hemisphere and wept with Safie over the hapless fate of its original inhabitants.
“菲利克斯指导萨菲的书是沃尔尼的《帝国废墟》。如果菲利克斯在读这本书时没有给出非常详细的解释，我就不会理解这本书的主旨。他说，他选择这部作品是因为其雄辩的风格是模仿东方作家的。通过这项工作，我对历史有了粗略的了解，并对当今世界上存在的几个帝国有了一个了解；它让我深入了解了地球上不同国家的风俗习惯、政府和宗教。我听说过懒惰的亚洲人，希腊人的惊人天才和精神活动，早期罗马人的战争和美好美德——他们后来的堕落——那个强大帝国的衰落，骑士精神、基督教和国王的衰落。我听说了美洲半球的发现，并与萨菲一起为原住民的不幸命运而哭泣。

‘These wonderful narrations inspired me with strange feelings. Was man, indeed, at once so powerful, so virtuous and magnificent, yet so vicious and base? He appeared at one time a mere scion of the evil principle and at another as all that can be conceived of noble and godlike. To be a great and virtuous man appeared the highest honour that can befall a sensitive being; to be base and vicious, as many on record have been, appeared the lowest degradation, a condition more abject than that of the blind mole or harmless worm. For a long time I could not conceive how one man could go forth to murder his fellow, or even why there were laws and governments; but when I heard details of vice and bloodshed, my wonder ceased and I turned away with disgust and loathing.
“这些精彩的叙述给我带来了奇怪的感觉。人真的是如此强大、如此善良、伟大，但同时又如此邪恶和卑鄙吗？他一度只是邪恶原则的后裔，而另一次则是所有可以想象的高贵和神圣的人。成为一个伟大而有道德的人似乎是一个敏感的人所能获得的最高荣誉。正如许多有记载的那样，卑鄙而恶毒的人似乎是最低级的退化，比盲鼹鼠或无害的蠕虫还要卑鄙。很长一段时间，我无法想象一个人如何能够去谋杀他的同胞，甚至无法想象为什么会有法律和政府；但当我听到罪恶和流血的细节时，我的惊奇停止了，我带着厌恶和厌恶转过身去。

‘Every conversation of the cottagers now opened new wonders to me. While I listened to the instructions which Felix bestowed upon the Arabian, the strange system of human society was explained to me. I heard of the division of property, of immense wealth and squalid poverty, of rank, descent, and noble blood.
“现在，村民们的每一次谈话都给我带来了新的奇迹。当我聆听菲利克斯对阿拉伯人的指示时，他向我解释了人类社会的奇怪制度。我听说过财产的分割、巨大的财富和肮脏的贫困、等级、血统和贵族血统的分割。

‘The words induced me to turn towards myself. I learned that the possessions most esteemed by your fellow creatures were high and unsullied descent united with riches. A man might be respected with only one of these advantages, but without either he was considered, except in very rare instances, as a vagabond and a slave, doomed to waste his powers for the profits of the chosen few! And what was I? Of my creation and creator I was absolutely ignorant, but I knew that I possessed no money, no friends, no kind of property. I was, besides, endued with a figure hideously deformed and loathsome; I was not even of the same nature as man. I was more agile than they and could subsist upon coarser diet; I bore the extremes of heat and cold with less injury to my frame; my stature far exceeded theirs. When I looked around I saw and heard of none like me. Was I, then, a monster, a blot upon the earth, from which all men fled and whom all men disowned?
“这些话促使我转向自己。我了解到，你们同胞最看重的财产是高贵、纯洁的血统和财富。一个人可能只拥有其中一项优势而受到尊重，但如果没有其中任何一项，他就会被视为流浪汉和奴隶，除非在极少数情况下，注定要为了少数人的利益而浪费自己的权力！而我又是什么？我对我的创造物和创造者一无所知，但我知道我没有金钱，没有朋友，没有任何财产。此外，我的身材畸形得可怕，令人厌恶。我的本性甚至与人类不同。我比他们更敏捷，可以吃更粗的食物。我忍受了极端的炎热和寒冷，但对我的身体伤害较小；我的身高远远超过他们。当我环顾四周时，我看到和听到没有人像我一样。那么，我是一个怪物，是地球上的一个污点，所有人都逃离它，所有人都否认我吗？

‘I cannot describe to you the agony that these reflections inflicted upon me; I tried to dispel them, but sorrow only increased with knowledge. Oh, that I had forever remained in my native wood, nor known nor felt beyond the sensations of hunger, thirst, and heat!
“我无法向你描述这些想法给我带来的痛苦；我试图驱散它们，但悲伤只会随着知识的增加而增加。哦，但愿我永远留在我的家乡森林里，除了饥饿、口渴和炎热的感觉之外，不知道也感受不到！

‘Of what a strange nature is knowledge! It clings to the mind when it has once seized on it like a lichen on the rock. I wished sometimes to shake off all thought and feeling, but I learned that there was but one means to overcome the sensation of pain, and that was death—a state which I feared yet did not understand. I admired virtue and good feelings and loved the gentle manners and amiable qualities of my cottagers, but I was shut out from intercourse with them, except through means which I obtained by stealth, when I was unseen and unknown, and which rather increased than satisfied the desire I had of becoming one among my fellows. The gentle words of Agatha and the animated smiles of the charming Arabian were not for me. The mild exhortations of the old man and the lively conversation of the loved Felix were not for me. Miserable, unhappy wretch!
‘知识的本质是多么奇怪啊！一旦它抓住了心，它就会像岩石上的地衣一样紧贴着它。有时我希望摆脱所有的思想和感觉，但我了解到只有一种方法可以克服痛苦的感觉，那就是死亡——一种我害怕但又不理解的状态。我钦佩美德和良好的感情，喜欢我的村民的温和举止和和蔼可亲的品质，但我被排除在与他们交往之外，除非通过我秘密获得的手段，当我不被看见和不为人所知时，这种手段反而增加而不是满足我渴望成为我的同伴中的一员。阿加莎温柔的话语和迷人的阿拉伯人生动的微笑不适合我。老人的温和劝告和所爱的菲利克斯的活泼谈话不适合我。可怜的、不幸的人！

‘Other lessons were impressed upon me even more deeply. I heard of the difference of sexes, and the birth and growth of children, how the father doted on the smiles of the infant, and the lively sallies of the older child, how all the life and cares of the mother were wrapped up in the precious charge, how the mind of youth expanded and gained knowledge, of brother, sister, and all the various relationships which bind one human being to another in mutual bonds.
“其他课程给我留下的印象更加深刻。我听说了性别的差异，孩子的诞生和成长，父亲如何溺爱婴儿的笑容，大孩子活泼的调侃，母亲的所有生活和牵挂都被包裹在孩子的心里。宝贵的教导，青年人的思想如何扩展并获得知识，兄弟姐妹，以及将一个人与另一个人相互联系在一起的所有各种关系。

‘But where were my friends and relations? No father had watched my infant days, no mother had blessed me with smiles and caresses; or if they had, all my past life was now a blot, a blind vacancy in which I distinguished nothing. From my earliest remembrance I had been as I then was in height and proportion. I had never yet seen a being resembling me or who claimed any intercourse with me. What was I? The question again recurred, to be answered only with groans.
“但是我的朋友和亲戚在哪里？没有父亲照顾我的婴儿时期，没有母亲用微笑和爱抚祝福我；或者说，即使有，我过去的生活现在也只是一个污点，一个盲目的空虚，我在其中一无所知。从我最早的记忆起，我的身高和比例就和当时一样。我还从未见过与我相似的人，也从未见过与我有过任何交往的人。我是什么？这个问题再次出现，得到的回答只是呻吟。

‘I will soon explain to what these feelings tended, but allow me now to return to the cottagers, whose story excited in me such various feelings of indignation, delight, and wonder, but which all terminated in additional love and reverence for my protectors (for so I loved, in an innocent, half-painful self-deceit, to call them).’
“我很快就会解释这些感觉的倾向，但现在请允许我回到村民们的身上，他们的故事在我心中激发了各种愤怒、喜悦和惊奇的感觉，但这一切都以对我的保护者的额外爱和崇敬而告终（因为我喜欢这样称呼他们，带着一种天真的、半痛苦的自欺欺人的态度）。

Chapter 14
第14章

‘Some time elapsed before I learned the history of my friends. It was one which could not fail to impress itself deeply on my mind, unfolding as it did a number of circumstances, each interesting and wonderful to one so utterly inexperienced as I was.
“过了一段时间我才了解到我朋友们的历史。这是一个在我脑海中留下深刻印象的故事，它展现了许多情况，对于像我这样完全没有经验的人来说，每一个都有趣而美妙。

‘The name of the old man was De Lacey. He was descended from a good family in France, where he had lived for many years in affluence, respected by his superiors and beloved by his equals. His son was bred in the service of his country, and Agatha had ranked with ladies of the highest distinction. A few months before my arrival they had lived in a large and luxurious city called Paris, surrounded by friends and possessed of every enjoyment which virtue, refinement of intellect, or taste, accompanied by a moderate fortune, could afford.
“那位老人的名字叫德拉赛。他出身于法国的一个好家庭，多年来生活富裕，受到上级的尊重和同辈的爱戴。他的儿子是为国家服务而生的，而阿加莎则与最尊贵的女士们并列。在我到达之前的几个月，他们住在一个叫做巴黎的大城市，奢华的城市，周围都是朋友，拥有美德、高雅的智力或品味，再加上适度的财富所能提供的一切享受。

‘The father of Safie had been the cause of their ruin. He was a Turkish merchant and had inhabited Paris for many years, when, for some reason which I could not learn, he became obnoxious to the government. He was seized and cast into prison the very day that Safie arrived from Constantinople to join him. He was tried and condemned to death. The injustice of his sentence was very flagrant; all Paris was indignant; and it was judged that his religion and wealth rather than the crime alleged against him had been the cause of his condemnation.
“萨菲的父亲是他们毁灭的原因。他是一位土耳其商人，在巴黎居住了很多年，后来由于某种我无法得知的原因，他变得令政府讨厌。萨菲从君士坦丁堡赶来与他会合的当天，他就被抓获并投入监狱。他受到审判并被判处死刑。他的判决是非常不公正的。整个巴黎都义愤填膺。据判断，他被定罪的原因是他的宗教和财富，而不是针对他的指控的罪行。

‘Felix had accidentally been present at the trial; his horror and indignation were uncontrollable when he heard the decision of the court. He made, at that moment, a solemn vow to deliver him and then looked around for the means. After many fruitless attempts to gain admittance to the prison, he found a strongly grated window in an unguarded part of the building, which lighted the dungeon of the unfortunate Muhammadan, who, loaded with chains, waited in despair the execution of the barbarous sentence. Felix visited the grate at night and made known to the prisoner his intentions in his favour. The Turk, amazed and delighted, endeavoured to kindle the zeal of his deliverer by promises of reward and wealth. Felix rejected his offers with contempt, yet when he saw the lovely Safie, who was allowed to visit her father and who by her gestures expressed her lively gratitude, the youth could not help owning to his own mind that the captive possessed a treasure which would fully reward his toil and hazard.
“菲利克斯无意中出席了审判；当他听到法庭的判决时，他的惊恐和愤慨无法控制。在那一刻，他庄严发誓要救他，然后四处寻找方法。在多次尝试进入监狱但无果后，他在建筑物无人看守的地方发现了一扇坚固的栅栏窗户，这扇窗户照亮了不幸的穆罕默德的地牢，他背负着铁链，绝望地等待着野蛮判决的执行。菲利克斯晚上来到了栅栏，向囚犯表明了他的意图。土耳其人既惊讶又高兴，试图通过许诺奖赏和财富来点燃他的拯救者的热情。菲利克斯轻蔑地拒绝了他的提议，然而，当他看到可爱的萨菲被允许去探望她的父亲并用她的手势表达了她的感激之情时，年轻人不禁承认，俘虏拥有一件宝藏，充分奖励他的辛劳和冒险。

‘The Turk quickly perceived the impression that his daughter had made on the heart of Felix and endeavoured to secure him more entirely in his interests by the promise of her hand in marriage so soon as he should be conveyed to a place of safety. Felix was too delicate to accept this offer, yet he looked forward to the probability of the event as to the consummation of his happiness.
“土耳其人很快就意识到他的女儿给菲利克斯留下了深刻的印象，并承诺一旦将他转移到安全的地方，她就会嫁给他，以确保他更完全地符合自己的利益。菲利克斯太脆弱了，无法接受这个提议，但他期待着这件事发生的可能性，以实现他的幸福。

‘During the ensuing days, while the preparations were going forward for the escape of the merchant, the zeal of Felix was warmed by several letters that he received from this lovely girl, who found means to express her thoughts in the language of her lover by the aid of an old man, a servant of her father who understood French. She thanked him in the most ardent terms for his intended services towards her parent, and at the same time she gently deplored her own fate.
在接下来的几天里，当商人为逃跑做准备时，菲利克斯的热情被这个可爱的女孩写的几封信所温暖，她找到了用她爱人的语言表达她的想法的方法一位老人的帮助，他是她父亲的仆人，懂法语。她以最热情的措辞感谢他为她父母提供的服务，同时她也温和地对自己的命运表示遗憾。

‘I have copies of these letters, for I found means, during my residence in the hovel, to procure the implements of writing; and the letters were often in the hands of Felix or Agatha. Before I depart I will give them to you; they will prove the truth of my tale; but at present, as the sun is already far declined, I shall only have time to repeat the substance of them to you.
“我有这些信件的副本，因为我在小屋里居住期间找到了获得书写工具的方法；这些信件经常在菲利克斯或阿加莎手中。在我离开之前，我会把它们交给你；他们将证明我的故事的真实性；但现在，由于太阳已经落得很远，我只有时间向你们重复一下它们的实质内容。

‘Safie related that her mother was a Christian Arab, seized and made a slave by the Turks; recommended by her beauty, she had won the heart of the father of Safie, who married her. The young girl spoke in high and enthusiastic terms of her mother, who, born in freedom, spurned the bondage to which she was now reduced. She instructed her daughter in the tenets of her religion and taught her to aspire to higher powers of intellect and an independence of spirit forbidden to the female followers of Muhammad. This lady died, but her lessons were indelibly impressed on the mind of Safie, who sickened at the prospect of again returning to Asia and being immured within the walls of a harem, allowed only to occupy herself with infantile amusements, ill-suited to the temper of her soul, now accustomed to grand ideas and a noble emulation for virtue. The prospect of marrying a Christian and remaining in a country where women were allowed to take a rank in society was enchanting to her.
“萨菲说，她的母亲是一名阿拉伯基督教徒，被土耳其人抓住并沦为奴隶；在她的美貌推荐下，她赢得了萨菲父亲的心，并娶了她。这位年轻的女孩以高调而热情的语气谈到了她的母亲，她生来自由，抛弃了她现在所遭受的束缚。她向女儿传授宗教教义，教导她追求更高的智力和穆罕默德女性追随者所禁止的精神独立。这位女士去世了，但她的教训在萨菲的脑海中留下了不可磨灭的印象，她对再次返回亚洲并被囚禁在后宫围墙内的前景感到厌恶，只允许自己沉迷于不适合的婴儿娱乐。她的灵魂的脾气，现在已经习惯了宏伟的想法和对美德的崇高追求。与基督徒结婚并留在一个允许妇女在社会中占有一席之地的国家的前景对她来说很迷人。

‘The day for the execution of the Turk was fixed, but on the night previous to it he quitted his prison and before morning was distant many leagues from Paris. Felix had procured passports in the name of his father, sister, and himself. He had previously communicated his plan to the former, who aided the deceit by quitting his house, under the pretence of a journey and concealed himself, with his daughter, in an obscure part of Paris.
“处决土耳其人的日子是固定的，但在前一天晚上，他离开了监狱，天亮之前就已经离巴黎很远了。菲利克斯以他父亲、妹妹和他自己的名义购买了护照。他之前已将自己的计划告知了前者，后者以旅行为借口离开家，并与女儿一起隐藏在巴黎的一个不起眼的地方，从而帮助了这一欺骗。

‘Felix conducted the fugitives through France to Lyons and across Mont Cenis to Leghorn, where the merchant had decided to wait a favourable opportunity of passing into some part of the Turkish dominions.
菲利克斯带领逃亡者穿过法国到达里昂，穿过塞尼斯山到达里窝那，商人决定在那里等待一个有利的机会进入土耳其领土的某些地区。

‘Safie resolved to remain with her father until the moment of his departure, before which time the Turk renewed his promise that she should be united to his deliverer; and Felix remained with them in expectation of that event; and in the meantime he enjoyed the society of the Arabian, who exhibited towards him the simplest and tenderest affection. They conversed with one another through the means of an interpreter, and sometimes with the interpretation of looks; and Safie sang to him the divine airs of her native country.
“萨菲决定留在她的父亲身边，直到他离开的那一刻，在此之前，土耳其人重申了他的承诺，即她应该与他的拯救者团聚；菲利克斯留在他们身边等待着那件事。与此同时，他很享受与阿拉伯人的交往，阿拉伯人对他表现出最朴素、最温柔的感情。他们通过翻译的方式相互交谈，有时还通过外表进行交谈。萨菲给他唱了她祖国的神圣旋律。

‘The Turk allowed this intimacy to take place and encouraged the hopes of the youthful lovers, while in his heart he had formed far other plans. He loathed the idea that his daughter should be united to a Christian, but he feared the resentment of Felix if he should appear lukewarm, for he knew that he was still in the power of his deliverer if he should choose to betray him to the Italian state which they inhabited. He revolved a thousand plans by which he should be enabled to prolong the deceit until it might be no longer necessary, and secretly to take his daughter with him when he departed. His plans were facilitated by the news which arrived from Paris.
土耳其人允许这种亲密关系的发生，并鼓励年轻恋人的希望，而他内心却制定了截然不同的计划。他讨厌他的女儿应该与基督徒结合，但他担心如果他表现得冷漠，菲利克斯会怨恨他，因为他知道，如果他选择将他出卖给意大利人，他仍然处于拯救者的权力之下。说明他们居住的地方。他制定了一千个计划，使他能够延长欺骗的时间，直到不再需要为止，并在他离开时偷偷地带上他的女儿。从巴黎传来的消息促进了他的计划。

‘The government of France were greatly enraged at the escape of their victim and spared no pains to detect and punish his deliverer. The plot of Felix was quickly discovered, and DeLacey and Agatha were thrown into prison. The news reached Felix and roused him from his dream of pleasure. His blind and aged father and his gentle sister lay in a noisome dungeon while he enjoyed the free air and the society of her whom he loved. This idea was torture to him. He quickly arranged with the Turk that if the latter should find a favourable opportunity for escape before Felix could return to Italy, Safie should remain as a boarder at a convent at Leghorn; and then, quitting the lovely Arabian, he hastened to Paris and delivered himself up to the vengeance of the law, hoping to free De Lacey and Agatha by this proceeding.
“法国政府对受害者的逃脱感到非常愤怒，并不遗余力地寻找和惩罚他的解救者。菲利克斯的阴谋很快被识破，德拉西和阿加莎被投入监狱。这个消息传到菲利克斯耳中，把他从美梦中惊醒。他双目失明、年迈的父亲和温柔的妹妹躺在一个肮脏的地牢里，而他却享受着自由的空气和与他所爱的她交往。这个想法对他来说是一种折磨。他很快与土耳其人商定，如果后者在菲利克斯返回意大利之前找到有利的逃跑机会，萨菲就应该留在里窝那的一所修道院里寄宿。然后，他离开了可爱的阿拉伯人，急忙前往巴黎，将自己送上了法律的制裁，希望通过这一诉讼来释放德拉赛和阿加莎。

‘He did not succeed. They remained confined for five months before the trial took place, the result of which deprived them of their fortune and condemned them to a perpetual exile from their native country.
‘他没有成功。在审判开始前，他们被关押了五个月，审判结果剥夺了他们的财产，并判处他们永远被驱逐出祖国。

‘They found a miserable asylum in the cottage in Germany, where I discovered them. Felix soon learned that the treacherous Turk, for whom he and his family endured such unheard-of oppression, on discovering that his deliverer was thus reduced to poverty and ruin, became a traitor to good feeling and honour and had quitted Italy with his daughter, insultingly sending Felix a pittance of money to aid him, as he said, in some plan of future maintenance.
“他们在德国的小屋里找到了一个悲惨的避难所，我就是在那里发现他们的。菲利克斯很快了解到，这个奸诈的土耳其人，他和他的家人为他忍受了如此前所未闻的压迫，当发现他的拯救者因此陷入贫困和破产时，他成为了良好感情和荣誉的叛徒，并带着他的女儿离开了意大利。正如他所说，侮辱性地给菲利克斯寄了一点钱来帮助他，以帮助他制定未来的维护计划。

‘Such were the events that preyed on the heart of Felix and rendered him, when I first saw him, the most miserable of his family. He could have endured poverty, and while this distress had been the meed of his virtue, he gloried in it; but the ingratitude of the Turk and the loss of his beloved Safie were misfortunes more bitter and irreparable. The arrival of the Arabian now infused new life into his soul.
“这些事件深深地刺痛了菲利克斯的心，当我第一次见到他时，他成为了他家里最悲惨的一个。他本来可以忍受贫穷，虽然这种苦难是他美德的结果，但他却以此为荣。但土耳其人的忘恩负义和失去心爱的萨菲是更痛苦和无法挽回的不幸。阿拉伯人的到来给他的灵魂注入了新的生命。

‘When the news reached Leghorn that Felix was deprived of his wealth and rank, the merchant commanded his daughter to think no more of her lover, but to prepare to return to her native country. The generous nature of Safie was outraged by this command; she attempted to expostulate with her father, but he left her angrily, reiterating his tyrannical mandate.
当菲利克斯被剥夺财富和地位的消息传到来窝那时，商人命令他的女儿不要再想她的情人，而是准备返回她的祖国。萨菲的慷慨本性被这个命令激怒了。她试图劝告父亲，但父亲愤怒地离开了她，并重申了他的残暴命令。

‘A few days after, the Turk entered his daughter’s apartment and told her hastily that he had reason to believe that his residence at Leghorn had been divulged and that he should speedily be delivered up to the French government; he had consequently hired a vessel to convey him to Constantinople, for which city he should sail in a few hours. He intended to leave his daughter under the care of a confidential servant, to follow at her leisure with the greater part of his property, which had not yet arrived at Leghorn.
几天后，土耳其人走进他女儿的公寓，急忙告诉她，他有理由相信他在里窝那的住所已经被泄露，应该迅速将他交给法国政府；因此，他租了一艘船把他送到君士坦丁堡，几个小时后他就可以航行到那个城市。他打算把他的女儿留给一名贴身仆人照顾，让她在闲暇时带着他尚未抵达里窝那的大部分财产。

‘When alone, Safie resolved in her own mind the plan of conduct that it would become her to pursue in this emergency. A residence in Turkey was abhorrent to her; her religion and her feelings were alike averse to it. By some papers of her father which fell into her hands she heard of the exile of her lover and learnt the name of the spot where he then resided. She hesitated some time, but at length she formed her determination. Taking with her some jewels that belonged to her and a sum of money, she quitted Italy with an attendant, a native of Leghorn, but who understood the common language of Turkey, and departed for Germany.
独自一人时，萨菲在心里决定了在这种紧急情况下她应该采取的行动计划。她对土耳其的居住感到厌恶。她的宗教信仰和情感都反对它。通过她手中的一些父亲的文件，她听说了她的爱人被流放的消息，并得知了他当时居住的地方的名字。她犹豫了一会儿，但最终还是下了决心。她带着一些属于她的珠宝和一笔钱，与一位来自里窝那但懂土耳其通用语言的随从一起离开意大利，前往德国。

‘She arrived in safety at a town about twenty leagues from the cottage of De Lacey, when her attendant fell dangerously ill. Safie nursed her with the most devoted affection, but the poor girl died, and the Arabian was left alone, unacquainted with the language of the country and utterly ignorant of the customs of the world. She fell, however, into good hands. The Italian had mentioned the name of the spot for which they were bound, and after her death the woman of the house in which they had lived took care that Safie should arrive in safety at the cottage of her lover.’
“她安全抵达距德拉赛小屋约二十里的一个小镇，这时她的随从病重了。萨菲全心全意地照顾她，但可怜的女孩死了，只剩下这个阿拉伯人，他不熟悉这个国家的语言，对世界各地的风俗习惯也一无所知。然而，她落入了好人之手。意大利人提到了他们要去的地方的名字，在她死后，他们住过的房子里的女人照顾萨菲安全到达她情人的小屋。

Chapter 15
第15章

‘Such was the history of my beloved cottagers. It impressed me deeply. I learned, from the views of social life which it developed, to admire their virtues and to deprecate the vices of mankind.
“这就是我心爱的村民的历史。这给我留下了深刻的印象。从它所发展的社会生活观中，我学会了欣赏人类的美德，贬低人类的罪恶。

‘As yet I looked upon crime as a distant evil, benevolence and generosity were ever present before me, inciting within me a desire to become an actor in the busy scene where so many admirable qualities were called forth and displayed. But in giving an account of the progress of my intellect, I must not omit a circumstance which occurred in the beginning of the month of August of the same year.
“迄今为止，我仍将犯罪视为一种遥远的罪恶，仁慈和慷慨一直存在于我面前，激发我内心渴望成为一名演员，在繁忙的场景中召唤和展示许多令人钦佩的品质。但在描述我的智力进步时，我不能忽略同年八月初发生的一件事。

‘One night during my accustomed visit to the neighbouring wood where I collected my own food and brought home firing for my protectors, I found on the ground a leathern portmanteau containing several articles of dress and some books. I eagerly seized the prize and returned with it to my hovel. Fortunately the books were written in the language, the elements of which I had acquired at the cottage; they consisted of Paradise Lost, a volume of Plutarch’s Lives, and the Sorrows of Werter. The possession of these treasures gave me extreme delight; I now continually studied and exercised my mind upon these histories, whilst my friends were employed in their ordinary occupations.
“有一天晚上，我按照惯例去附近的树林收集食物，并为我的保护者带回火药，在地上发现了一个皮革手提包，里面装着几件衣服和一些书。我急切地抓住了奖品，并带着它回到了我的小屋。幸运的是，这些书是用我在小屋里学到的语言写成的。其中包括《失乐园》、《普鲁塔克传》和《维特之烦恼》。拥有这些宝藏让我无比高兴。现在，我不断地研究这些历史并锻炼我的思维，而我的朋友们则忙于他们的日常工作。

‘I can hardly describe to you the effect of these books. They produced in me an infinity of new images and feelings, that sometimes raised me to ecstasy, but more frequently sunk me into the lowest dejection. In the Sorrows of Werter, besides the interest of its simple and affecting story, so many opinions are canvassed and so many lights thrown upon what had hitherto been to me obscure subjects that I found in it a never-ending source of speculation and astonishment. The gentle and domestic manners it described, combined with lofty sentiments and feelings, which had for their object something out of self, accorded well with my experience among my protectors and with the wants which were forever alive in my own bosom. But I thought Werter himself a more divine being than I had ever beheld or imagined; his character contained no pretension, but it sank deep. The disquisitions upon death and suicide were calculated to fill me with wonder. I did not pretend to enter into the merits of the case, yet I inclined towards the opinions of the hero, whose extinction I wept, without precisely understanding it.
“我很难向你描述这些书的效果。它们在我身上产生了无穷无尽的新形象和感觉，有时让我欣喜若狂，但更多时候却让我陷入最低谷的沮丧。在《维特的烦恼》中，除了简单而感人的故事的趣味之外，还探讨了许多观点，对迄今为止对我来说晦涩难懂的主题进行了如此多的阐释，我发现其中有无穷无尽的猜测和惊讶。它所描述的温柔和家庭礼仪，加上崇高的情感和情感，其目标是出于自我，非常符合我在保护者中的经历以及我内心永远存在的需求。但我认为维特本人比我所见过或想象的更加神圣。他的性格没有任何矫揉造作，但却很深刻。关于死亡和自杀的专题讨论让我充满惊奇。我并没有假装深入了解案件的是非曲直，但我倾向于英雄的意见，他的灭绝让我哭泣，但并没有准确理解它。

‘As I read, however, I applied much personally to my own feelings and condition. I found myself similar yet at the same time strangely unlike to the beings concerning whom I read and to whose conversation I was a listener. I sympathized with and partly understood them, but I was unformed in mind; I was dependent on none and related to none. ‘The path of my departure was free,’ and there was none to lament my annihilation. My person was hideous and my stature gigantic. What did this mean? Who was I? What was I? Whence did I come? What was my destination? These questions continually recurred, but I was unable to solve them.
“然而，当我阅读时，我更多地运用了我自己的感受和状况。我发现自己与我所读到的、我所倾听的那些人很相似，但同时又奇怪地不同。我很同情他们，也部分理解他们，但我的思想还很幼稚。我不依赖任何人，也不与任何人相关。 “我离开的道路是自由的”，没有人为我的毁灭而哀叹。我的身形丑陋，身材巨大。这是什么意思？我是谁？我是什么？我从哪里来？我的目的地是什么？这些问题不断地出现，但我却无法解决。

‘The volume of Plutarch’s Lives which I possessed contained the histories of the first founders of the ancient republics. This book had a far different effect upon me from the Sorrows of Werter. I learned from Werter’s imaginations despondency and gloom, but Plutarch taught me high thoughts; he elevated me above the wretched sphere of my own reflections, to admire and love the heroes of past ages. Many things I read surpassed my understanding and experience. I had a very confused knowledge of kingdoms, wide extents of country, mighty rivers, and boundless seas. But I was perfectly unacquainted with towns and large assemblages of men. The cottage of my protectors had been the only school in which I had studied human nature, but this book developed new and mightier scenes of action. I read of men concerned in public affairs, governing or massacring their species. I felt the greatest ardour for virtue rise within me, and abhorrence for vice, as far as I understood the signification of those terms, relative as they were, as I applied them, to pleasure and pain alone. Induced by these feelings, I was of course led to admire peaceable lawgivers, Numa, Solon, and Lycurgus, in preference to Romulus and Theseus. The patriarchal lives of my protectors caused these impressions to take a firm hold on my mind; perhaps, if my first introduction to humanity had been made by a young soldier, burning for glory and slaughter, I should have been imbued with different sensations.
“我拥有的《普鲁塔克传》一卷包含了古代共和国第一批创始人的历史。这本书对我的影响与《维特的烦恼》截然不同。我从维特的想象中学到了沮丧和忧郁，但普鲁塔克却教会了我崇高的思想。他让我超越了自己的悲惨反思，去钦佩和热爱过去时代的英雄。我读到的很多东西超出了我的理解和经验。我对王国、广阔的乡村、浩瀚的河流和无边无际的海洋的认识非常混乱。但我对城镇和大群人完全不熟悉。我的保护者的小屋是我研究人性的唯一学校，但这本书开发了新的、更强大的动作场景。我读到人们关心公共事务，统治或屠杀他们的物种。就我所理解的这些术语的含义而言，我内心升起对美德的最大热情，对罪恶的憎恶，在我应用它们时，它们仅与快乐和痛苦有关。在这些感情的诱导下，我当然更欣赏和平的立法者努玛、梭伦和莱库古斯，而不是罗慕路斯和忒修斯。我的保护者的父权生活使这些印象牢牢地扎在我的脑海里。也许，如果我第一次接触人类是由一位热衷于荣耀和杀戮的年轻士兵提出的，我应该会充满不同的感觉。

‘But Paradise Lost excited different and far deeper emotions. I read it, as I had read the other volumes which had fallen into my hands, as a true history. It moved every feeling of wonder and awe that the picture of an omnipotent God warring with his creatures was capable of exciting. I often referred the several situations, as their similarity struck me, to my own. Like Adam, I was apparently united by no link to any other being in existence; but his state was far different from mine in every other respect. He had come forth from the hands of God a perfect creature, happy and prosperous, guarded by the especial care of his Creator; he was allowed to converse with and acquire knowledge from beings of a superior nature, but I was wretched, helpless, and alone. Many times I considered Satan as the fitter emblem of my condition, for often, like him, when I viewed the bliss of my protectors, the bitter gall of envy rose within me.
“但是《失乐园》激发了不同的、更深层次的情感。我把它当作一部真实的历史来读，就像我读了我手中的其他书一样。全能的上帝与他的创造物交战的画面令人兴奋，这让人们感到惊奇和敬畏。我经常将这几种情况与我自己的情况联系起来，因为它们的相似之处令我印象深刻。像亚当一样，我显然与任何其他存在的存在没有任何联系。但他的状态在其他方面都与我截然不同。他是从上帝手中诞生的一个完美的生物，幸福而繁荣，受到造物主的特别照顾。他被允许与高尚的人交谈并从他们那里获取知识，但我却是可怜的、无助的、孤独的。很多时候，我认为撒旦更适合我的处境，因为像他一样，当我看到我的保护者的幸福时，我内心升起强烈的嫉妒之心。

‘Another circumstance strengthened and confirmed these feelings. Soon after my arrival in the hovel I discovered some papers in the pocket of the dress which I had taken from your laboratory. At first I had neglected them, but now that I was able to decipher the characters in which they were written, I began to study them with diligence. It was your journal of the four months that preceded my creation. You minutely described in these papers every step you took in the progress of your work; this history was mingled with accounts of domestic occurrences. You doubtless recollect these papers. Here they are. Everything is related in them which bears reference to my accursed origin; the whole detail of that series of disgusting circumstances which produced it is set in view; the minutest description of my odious and loathsome person is given, in language which painted your own horrors and rendered mine indelible. I sickened as I read. ‘Hateful day when I received life!’ I exclaimed in agony. ‘Accursed creator! Why did you form a monster so hideous that even you turned from me in disgust? God, in pity, made man beautiful and alluring, after his own image; but my form is a filthy type of yours, more horrid even from the very resemblance. Satan had his companions, fellow devils, to admire and encourage him, but I am solitary and abhorred.’
“另一个情况强化并证实了这些感觉。到达小屋后不久，我在裙子的口袋里发现了一些我从你的实验室拿来的文件。起初我忽略了它们，但现在我能辨认出它们的字，我开始认真研究它们。这是你在我创作之前四个月的日记。您在这些文件中详细地描述了您在工作进展中所采取的每一步；这段历史与国内发生的事件混杂在一起。您无疑还记得这些文件。他们来了。其中的一切都与我该受诅咒的出身有关。造成这一切的一系列令人厌恶的情况的全部细节都在眼前；对我这个可憎可恶的人的最细致的描述，其语言描绘了你自己的恐怖，并使我的恐怖不可磨灭。我读着就感到恶心。 “我获得生命的日子真是可恶！”我痛苦地喊道。 ‘可恶的创造者！为什么你要造出一个如此丑陋的怪物，连你都厌恶地避开我？上帝出于怜悯，按照自己的形象创造了美丽而迷人的人类。但我的外貌和你的很肮脏，甚至从相似之处来看也更可怕。撒旦有他的同伴，恶魔同胞们来钦佩和鼓励他，但我却是孤独和憎恶的。

‘These were the reflections of my hours of despondency and solitude; but when I contemplated the virtues of the cottagers, their amiable and benevolent dispositions, I persuaded myself that when they should become acquainted with my admiration of their virtues they would compassionate me and overlook my personal deformity. Could they turn from their door one, however monstrous, who solicited their compassion and friendship? I resolved, at least, not to despair, but in every way to fit myself for an interview with them which would decide my fate. I postponed this attempt for some months longer, for the importance attached to its success inspired me with a dread lest I should fail. Besides, I found that my understanding improved so much with every day’s experience that I was unwilling to commence this undertaking until a few more months should have added to my sagacity.
“这些都是我沮丧和孤独时刻的反映；但当我想到农夫们的美德、他们和蔼可亲、仁慈的性格时，我说服自己，当他们了解我对他们美德的钦佩时，他们就会同情我，而忽视我个人的缺陷。他们能否拒绝一个向他们寻求同情和友谊的人，无论他多么可怕？我决定，至少，不要绝望，而是以各种方式让自己适合接受他们的采访，这将决定我的命运。我将这次尝试推迟了几个月，因为对其成功的重视激发了我对失败的恐惧。此外，我发现随着每天的经历，我的理解力有了很大的提高，以至于我不愿意开始这项工作，直到几个月后我的智慧应该会增加。

‘Several changes, in the meantime, took place in the cottage. The presence of Safie diffused happiness among its inhabitants, and I also found that a greater degree of plenty reigned there. Felix and Agatha spent more time in amusement and conversation, and were assisted in their labours by servants. They did not appear rich, but they were contented and happy; their feelings were serene and peaceful, while mine became every day more tumultuous. Increase of knowledge only discovered to me more clearly what a wretched outcast I was. I cherished hope, it is true, but it vanished when I beheld my person reflected in water or my shadow in the moonshine, even as that frail image and that inconstant shade.
“与此同时，小屋里发生了一些变化。萨菲的出现给居民带来了幸福感，我还发现那里的生活更加富裕。菲利克斯和阿加莎把更多的时间花在娱乐和谈话上，并得到仆人的协助。他们看上去并不富有，但他们很满足、很快乐；他们的感情是平静祥和的，而我的感情却一天天变得更加动荡。知识的增长让我更加清楚地发现我是一个多么可怜的被遗弃者。确实，我怀有希望，但当我看到水中倒映着自己的倒影，或月光下的影子，哪怕那脆弱的影像和那飘忽不定的阴影时，希望就消失了。

‘I endeavoured to crush these fears and to fortify myself for the trial which in a few months I resolved to undergo; and sometimes I allowed my thoughts, unchecked by reason, to ramble in the fields of Paradise, and dared to fancy amiable and lovely creatures sympathizing with my feelings and cheering my gloom; their angelic countenances breathed smiles of consolation. But it was all a dream; no Eve soothed my sorrows nor shared my thoughts; I was alone. I remembered Adam’s supplication to his Creator. But where was mine? He had abandoned me, and in the bitterness of my heart I cursed him.
“我努力消除这些恐惧，并为我决心在几个月后接受的考验增强自己的力量；有时，我让自己的思绪不受理性的约束，在天堂的田野里漫步，敢于想象那些和蔼可亲、可爱的生灵，他们同情我的感情，为我的忧郁欢呼。他们天使般的面容上带着安慰的微笑。但这一切都是一场梦；没有夏娃抚慰我的悲伤，也没有分享我的想法；我独自一人。我记得亚当向他的创造者祈求。但我的在哪里？他抛弃了我，我在心里痛苦地咒骂着他。

‘Autumn passed thus. I saw, with surprise and grief, the leaves decay and fall, and nature again assume the barren and bleak appearance it had worn when I first beheld the woods and the lovely moon. Yet I did not heed the bleakness of the weather; I was better fitted by my conformation for the endurance of cold than heat. But my chief delights were the sight of the flowers, the birds, and all the gay apparel of summer; when those deserted me, I turned with more attention towards the cottagers. Their happiness was not decreased by the absence of summer. They loved and sympathized with one another; and their joys, depending on each other, were not interrupted by the casualties that took place around them. The more I saw of them, the greater became my desire to claim their protection and kindness; my heart yearned to be known and loved by these amiable creatures; to see their sweet looks directed towards me with affection was the utmost limit of my ambition. I dared not think that they would turn them from me with disdain and horror. The poor that stopped at their door were never driven away. I asked, it is true, for greater treasures than a little food or rest: I required kindness and sympathy; but I did not believe myself utterly unworthy of it.
‘秋天就这样过去了。我惊讶又悲伤地看到树叶腐烂落下，大自然又恢复了我第一次看到树林和可爱的月亮时的贫瘠和荒凉的样子。然而我并没有注意到天气的阴沉；我的体形更适合忍受寒冷而不是炎热。但我最高兴的是看到花朵、鸟儿和夏天的所有欢快的服装。当那些人抛弃我时，我把更多的注意力转向了村民。他们的幸福感并没有因为夏天的缺席而减少。他们彼此相爱、彼此同情；他们相依为命的欢乐并没有因为周围发生的伤亡而中断。我见到他们越多，就越渴望获得他们的保护和仁慈。我的心渴望被这些可爱的生灵所认识、所爱；看到他们甜蜜而充满爱意的目光注视着我，这就是我野心的最大极限。我不敢想象他们会带着轻蔑和恐惧将它们从我身边赶走。停在他们家门口的穷人从未被赶走。确实，我要求比一点食物或休息更重要的财富：我需要仁慈和同情；但我并不认为自己完全不配。

‘The winter advanced, and an entire revolution of the seasons had taken place since I awoke into life. My attention at this time was solely directed towards my plan of introducing myself into the cottage of my protectors. I revolved many projects, but that on which I finally fixed was to enter the dwelling when the blind old man should be alone. I had sagacity enough to discover that the unnatural hideousness of my person was the chief object of horror with those who had formerly beheld me. My voice, although harsh, had nothing terrible in it; I thought, therefore, that if in the absence of his children I could gain the good will and mediation of the old De Lacey, I might by his means be tolerated by my younger protectors.
“冬天来了，自从我醒来后，季节就发生了变化。此时我的注意力完全集中在我将自己介绍给我的保护者小屋的计划上。我考虑了很多计划，但最终确定的是，当盲眼老人独自一人时，我要进入他的住所。我有足够的洞察力，发现我的人的不自然的丑陋是那些以前见过我的人恐惧的主要对象。我的声音虽然刺耳，但并没有什么可怕的。因此，我想，如果在他的孩子们不在的情况下，我能够获得老德拉赛的善意和调解，我可能会通过他的方式得到我年轻的保护者的宽容。

‘One day, when the sun shone on the red leaves that strewed the ground and diffused cheerfulness, although it denied warmth, Safie, Agatha, and Felix departed on a long country walk, and the old man, at his own desire, was left alone in the cottage. When his children had departed, he took up his guitar and played several mournful but sweet airs, more sweet and mournful than I had ever heard him play before. At first his countenance was illuminated with pleasure, but as he continued, thoughtfulness and sadness succeeded; at length, laying aside the instrument, he sat absorbed in reflection.
有一天，当阳光洒满大地的红叶上，弥漫着欢乐的气息，尽管天气并不温暖，萨菲、阿加莎和菲利克斯却出发去乡间散步，老人则按照自己的意愿离开了。独自一人在小屋里。当他的孩子们离开后，他拿起吉他，弹奏了几首悲伤但甜美的曲子，比我以前听过的他弹奏的更加甜美和悲伤。起初，他的脸上洋溢着喜悦的光芒，但随着他继续说下去，他的表情逐渐变得沉思和悲伤。最后，他把仪器放在一边，坐下来陷入沉思。

‘My heart beat quick; this was the hour and moment of trial, which would decide my hopes or realize my fears. The servants were gone to a neighbouring fair. All was silent in and around the cottage; it was an excellent opportunity; yet, when I proceeded to execute my plan, my limbs failed me and I sank to the ground. Again I rose, and exerting all the firmness of which I was master, removed the planks which I had placed before my hovel to conceal my retreat. The fresh air revived me, and with renewed determination I approached the door of their cottage.
“我的心跳得很快；这是考验的时刻，它将决定我的希望或实现我的恐惧。仆人们去了附近的集市。小屋里和周围一片寂静。这是一个绝佳的机会；然而，当我开始执行我的计划时，我的四肢无力，我倒在了地上。我再次站起来，用尽我所能掌握的全部力量，移开了我放在小屋前用来隐藏我的撤退的木板。新鲜的空气使我恢复了活力，我带着新的决心走向了他们小屋的门。

‘I knocked. ‘Who is there?’ said the old man. ‘Come in.’
‘我敲门了。 “谁在那儿？”老人问道。 '进来。'

‘I entered. ‘Pardon this intrusion,’ said I; ‘I am a traveller in want of a little rest; you would greatly oblige me if you would allow me to remain a few minutes before the fire.’
'我进入了。 “请原谅我的打扰，”我说道。 “我是一个需要休息的旅行者；如果您允许我在火场前停留几分钟，您将非常感激我。”

‘‘Enter,’ said De Lacey, ‘and I will try in what manner I can to relieve your wants; but, unfortunately, my children are from home, and as I am blind, I am afraid I shall find it difficult to procure food for you.’
“进来吧，”德拉赛说，“我会尽力满足你的需要；但不幸的是，我的孩子们都来自家乡，而且我是盲人，恐怕很难为你们采购食物。

‘‘Do not trouble yourself, my kind host; I have food; it is warmth and rest only that I need.’
“别费心了，我好心的主人；我有食物；我需要的只是温暖和休息。

‘I sat down, and a silence ensued. I knew that every minute was precious to me, yet I remained irresolute in what manner to commence the interview, when the old man addressed me. ‘By your language, stranger, I suppose you are my countryman; are you French?’
“我坐下来，周围一片寂静。我知道每一分钟对我来说都很宝贵，但当老人对我说话时，我却犹豫不决以什么方式开始采访。 “根据你的语言，陌生人，我猜你是我的同胞；你是法国人吗？'

‘‘No; but I was educated by a French family and understand that language only. I am now going to claim the protection of some friends, whom I sincerely love, and of whose favour I have some hopes.’
''不;但我是在法国家庭接受教育的，只能听懂法语。我现在要寻求一些朋友的保护，我真诚地爱着他们，并且我希望得到他们的青睐。

‘‘Are they Germans?’
“他们是德国人吗？”

‘‘No, they are French. But let us change the subject. I am an unfortunate and deserted creature, I look around and I have no relation or friend upon earth. These amiable people to whom I go have never seen me and know little of me. I am full of fears, for if I fail there, I am an outcast in the world forever.’
“不，他们是法国人。但让我们换个话题。我是一个不幸而被遗弃的生物，环顾四周，我在地球上没有任何亲戚或朋友。我去的这些和蔼可亲的人从未见过我，对我知之甚少。我充满了恐惧，因为如果我失败了，我将永远被世界抛弃。

‘‘Do not despair. To be friendless is indeed to be unfortunate, but the hearts of men, when unprejudiced by any obvious self-interest, are full of brotherly love and charity. Rely, therefore, on your hopes; and if these friends are good and amiable, do not despair.’
''不要灰心。没有朋友确实是不幸的，但是当人们的心中不被任何明显的私利所偏见时，就会充满兄弟之爱和慈善事业。因此，要相信你的希望；如果这些朋友是善良且和蔼可亲的，请不要绝望。

‘‘They are kind—they are the most excellent creatures in the world; but, unfortunately, they are prejudiced against me. I have good dispositions; my life has been hitherto harmless and in some degree beneficial; but a fatal prejudice clouds their eyes, and where they ought to see a feeling and kind friend, they behold only a detestable monster.’
“他们很善良——他们是世界上最优秀的生物；但不幸的是，他们对我有偏见。我的性格很好；迄今为止，我的生活是无害的，而且在某种程度上是有益的。但致命的偏见蒙蔽了他们的眼睛，在他们本应看到感情丰富、善良的朋友的地方，他们却看到了一个可憎的怪物。

‘‘That is indeed unfortunate; but if you are really blameless, cannot you undeceive them?’
” “这确实是不幸的；但如果你真的无可指责，你就不能欺骗他们吗？

‘‘I am about to undertake that task; and it is on that account that I feel so many overwhelming terrors. I tenderly love these friends; I have, unknown to them, been for many months in the habits of daily kindness towards them; but they believe that I wish to injure them, and it is that prejudice which I wish to overcome.’
“我即将承担这项任务；正因为如此，我才感到如此巨大的恐惧。我温柔地爱着这些朋友；他们不知道的是，我已经养成了好几个月每天对他们友善的习惯。但他们相信我希望伤害他们，而我希望克服的正是这种偏见。”

‘‘Where do these friends reside?’
“这些朋友住在哪里？”

‘‘Near this spot.’
“在这个地方附近。”

‘The old man paused and then continued, ‘If you will unreservedly confide to me the particulars of your tale, I perhaps may be of use in undeceiving them. I am blind and cannot judge of your countenance, but there is something in your words which persuades me that you are sincere. I am poor and an exile, but it will afford me true pleasure to be in any way serviceable to a human creature.’
”老人停顿了一下，然后继续说道：“如果你毫无保留地向我透露你的故事的细节，我也许可以帮助他们摆脱欺骗。我是瞎子，无法判断你的面容，但你的话让我相信你是真诚的。我很穷，又是一个流亡者，但以任何方式为人类服务将给我带来真正的快乐。

‘‘Excellent man! I thank you and accept your generous offer. You raise me from the dust by this kindness; and I trust that, by your aid, I shall not be driven from the society and sympathy of your fellow creatures.’
” “优秀的人！我感谢你并接受你的慷慨提议。你以这种仁慈将我从尘土中提拔出来；我相信，在你们的帮助下，我不会被你们同胞的社会和同情所驱赶。

‘‘Heaven forbid! Even if you were really criminal, for that can only drive you to desperation, and not instigate you to virtue. I also am unfortunate; I and my family have been condemned, although innocent; judge, therefore, if I do not feel for your misfortunes.’
” “天哪！即使你确实犯了罪，那也只能使你走向绝望，而不能促使你走向美德。我也是不幸的；我和我的家人虽然无辜，却受到了谴责；因此，请判断我是否对你的不幸感到同情。

‘‘How can I thank you, my best and only benefactor? From your lips first have I heard the voice of kindness directed towards me; I shall be forever grateful; and your present humanity assures me of success with those friends whom I am on the point of meeting.’
“我该如何感谢你，我最好也是唯一的恩人？我首先从你的嘴唇里听到了对我友善的声音；我将永远感激不已；你现在的人性使我能够与即将见面的朋友们取得成功。”

‘‘May I know the names and residence of those friends?’ ‘I paused. This, I thought, was the moment of decision, which was to rob me of or bestow happiness on me forever. I struggled vainly for firmness sufficient to answer him, but the effort destroyed all my remaining strength; I sank on the chair and sobbed aloud. At that moment I heard the steps of my younger protectors. I had not a moment to lose, but seizing the hand of the old man, I cried, ‘Now is the time! Save and protect me! You and your family are the friends whom I seek. Do not you desert me in the hour of trial!’
“我可以知道那些朋友的名字和住所吗？”我停顿了一下。我想，这是一个决定的时刻，是要永远剥夺我的幸福，还是赐予我永远的幸福。我徒劳地挣扎着要坚定地回答他，但这种努力耗尽了我仅存的力量。我瘫倒在椅子上，放声哭泣。就在这时，我听到了年轻保护者的脚步声。我刻不容缓，抓住老人的手，喊道：“现在是时候了！”拯救并保护我！你和你的家人是我寻找的朋友。不要在审判的时刻抛弃我！

‘‘Great God!’ exclaimed the old man. ‘Who are you?’
“伟大的上帝！”老人惊呼道。 '你是谁？'

‘At that instant the cottage door was opened, and Felix, Safie, and Agatha entered. Who can describe their horror and consternation on beholding me? Agatha fainted, and Safie, unable to attend to her friend, rushed out of the cottage. Felix darted forward, and with supernatural force tore me from his father, to whose knees I clung, in a transport of fury, he dashed me to the ground and struck me violently with a stick. I could have torn him limb from limb, as the lion rends the antelope. But my heart sank within me as with bitter sickness, and I refrained. I saw him on the point of repeating his blow, when, overcome by pain and anguish, I quitted the cottage, and in the general tumult escaped unperceived to my hovel.’
“就在这时，小屋的门打开了，菲利克斯、萨菲和阿加莎走了进来。谁能描述他们看到我时的恐惧和惊愕？阿加莎晕倒了，萨菲无法照顾她的朋友，冲出了小屋。菲利克斯冲上前去，用超自然的力量把我从他父亲的身边撕下来，我紧紧地抱住他父亲的膝盖，他愤怒地把我摔倒在地，并用棍子猛烈地打我。我本可以把他撕成碎片，就像狮子撕裂羚羊一样。但我的心像得了苦病一样沉沉下去，所以我忍住了。我看到他正要重复他的攻击，当时，我被痛苦和痛苦压倒了，离开了小屋，在一片混乱中不知不觉地逃到了我的小屋。

Chapter 16
第16章

‘Cursed, cursed creator! Why did I live? Why, in that instant, did I not extinguish the spark of existence which you had so wantonly bestowed? I know not; despair had not yet taken possession of me; my feelings were those of rage and revenge. I could with pleasure have destroyed the cottage and its inhabitants and have glutted myself with their shrieks and misery.
‘被诅咒的、被诅咒的创造者！我为什么活着？为什么那一刻我没有熄灭你肆意赐予的存在火花？我不知道;绝望还没有占据我的心；我的感受是愤怒和报复。我本可以愉快地摧毁这座小屋和里面的居民，并用他们的尖叫和痛苦来填满自己。

‘When night came I quitted my retreat and wandered in the wood; and now, no longer restrained by the fear of discovery, I gave vent to my anguish in fearful howlings. I was like a wild beast that had broken the toils, destroying the objects that obstructed me and ranging through the wood with a staglike swiftness. Oh! What a miserable night I passed! The cold stars shone in mockery, and the bare trees waved their branches above me; now and then the sweet voice of a bird burst forth amidst the universal stillness. All, save I, were at rest or in enjoyment; I, like the arch-fiend, bore a hell within me, and finding myself unsympathized with, wished to tear up the trees, spread havoc and destruction around me, and then to have sat down and enjoyed the ruin.
“夜幕降临时，我离开了隐居处，在树林里漫步；现在，我不再害怕被发现，我用可怕的嚎叫来发泄我的痛苦。我就像一头打破了劳累的野兽，摧毁了阻碍我的物体，以雄鹿般的速度在树林中穿行。哦！我度过了多么痛苦的一夜啊！冰冷的星星闪烁着嘲弄的光芒，光秃秃的树木在我头顶上挥舞着树枝。在万籁俱寂的寂静中，时不时地传来鸟儿甜美的声音。除了我之外，所有人都在休息或享受之中；我，就像大恶魔一样，内心深处有一个地狱，发现自己不受同情，希望撕裂树木，在我周围散播破坏和破坏，然后坐下来享受废墟。

‘But this was a luxury of sensation that could not endure; I became fatigued with excess of bodily exertion and sank on the damp grass in the sick impotence of despair. There was none among the myriads of men that existed who would pity or assist me; and should I feel kindness towards my enemies? No; from that moment I declared everlasting war against the species, and more than all, against him who had formed me and sent me forth to this insupportable misery.
“但这种奢侈的感觉无法持久；由于过度的体力消耗，我变得疲惫不堪，在绝望的病态无力中瘫倒在潮湿的草地上。在无数的人中，没有一个人会怜悯或帮助我。我应该对我的敌人仁慈吗？不;从那一刻起，我向这个物种宣战，尤其是向造就了我并将我送入这种难以忍受的苦难的他宣战。

‘The sun rose; I heard the voices of men and knew that it was impossible to return to my retreat during that day. Accordingly I hid myself in some thick underwood, determining to devote the ensuing hours to reflection on my situation.
‘太阳升起；我听到男人的声音，知道那天不可能再回到我的闭关了。因此，我把自己藏在茂密的灌木丛中，决定用接下来的时间来思考我的处境。

‘The pleasant sunshine and the pure air of day restored me to some degree of tranquillity; and when I considered what had passed at the cottage, I could not help believing that I had been too hasty in my conclusions. I had certainly acted imprudently. It was apparent that my conversation had interested the father in my behalf, and I was a fool in having exposed my person to the horror of his children. I ought to have familiarized the old De Lacey to me, and by degrees to have discovered myself to the rest of his family, when they should have been prepared for my approach. But I did not believe my errors to be irretrievable, and after much consideration I resolved to return to the cottage, seek the old man, and by my representations win him to my party.
“白天宜人的阳光和纯净的空气让我恢复了某种程度的平静；当我思考小屋里发生的事情时，我不禁相信我的结论太仓促了。我的行为确实很不谨慎。很明显，我的谈话引起了父亲对我的兴趣，而我让自己暴露在他孩子们的恐惧之下真是个傻瓜。我本应该熟悉老德拉赛，并逐渐让他的家人发现我自己，而他们本应为我的接近做好准备。但我并不认为我的错误是不可挽回的，经过深思熟虑，我决定返回小屋，寻找那位老人，并通过我的交涉赢得他加入我的队伍。

‘These thoughts calmed me, and in the afternoon I sank into a profound sleep; but the fever of my blood did not allow me to be visited by peaceful dreams. The horrible scene of the preceding day was forever acting before my eyes; the females were flying and the enraged Felix tearing me from his father’s feet. I awoke exhausted, and finding that it was already night, I crept forth from my hiding-place, and went in search of food.
“这些想法让我平静下来，下午我就沉沉地睡着了。但我血液的发烧不允许我做平静的梦。前一天的恐怖场景永远浮现在我的眼前。雌性飞走了，愤怒的菲利克斯把我从他父亲的脚下撕下来。我醒来时精疲力尽，发现已经是晚上了，我从藏身之处爬出来，去寻找食物。

‘When my hunger was appeased, I directed my steps towards the well-known path that conducted to the cottage. All there was at peace. I crept into my hovel and remained in silent expectation of the accustomed hour when the family arose. That hour passed, the sun mounted high in the heavens, but the cottagers did not appear. I trembled violently, apprehending some dreadful misfortune. The inside of the cottage was dark, and I heard no motion; I cannot describe the agony of this suspense.
“当我的饥饿得到缓解后，我朝着通往小屋的那条众所周知的小路走去。一切都很平静。我蹑手蹑脚地走进自己的小屋，静静地等待着家人起床的那一刻。时间过去了，太阳已经高高挂在天空了，但村里的人却没有出现。我猛烈地颤抖起来，预感有什么可怕的不幸发生。小屋里一片漆黑，我听不到任何动静。我无法描述这个悬念所带来的痛苦。

‘Presently two countrymen passed by, but pausing near the cottage, they entered into conversation, using violent gesticulations; but I did not understand what they said, as they spoke the language of the country, which differed from that of my protectors. Soon after, however, Felix approached with another man; I was surprised, as I knew that he had not quitted the cottage that morning, and waited anxiously to discover from his discourse the meaning of these unusual appearances.
“不久，有两个乡下人经过，但他们在小屋附近停下来，用暴力的手势开始交谈；但我听不懂他们在说什么，因为他们说的是这个国家的语言，与我的保护者的语言不同。然而不久之后，菲利克斯带着另一个男人走近。我很惊讶，因为我知道他那天早上还没有离开小屋，焦急地等待着从他的话语中发现这些不寻常外表的含义。

‘‘Do you consider,’ said his companion to him, ‘that you will be obliged to pay three months’ rent and to lose the produce of your garden? I do not wish to take any unfair advantage, and I beg therefore that you will take some days to consider of your determination.’
“你认为，”他的同伴对他说，“你将不得不支付三个月的租金并失去你花园里的农产品吗？我不想获得任何不公平的优势，因此我请求您花几天时间考虑一下您的决定。

‘‘It is utterly useless,’ replied Felix; ‘we can never again inhabit your cottage. The life of my father is in the greatest danger, owing to the dreadful circumstance that I have related. My wife and my sister will never recover from their horror. I entreat you not to reason with me any more. Take possession of your tenement and let me fly from this place.’
“这完全没用，”菲利克斯回答道。 “我们再也不能住在你的小屋里了。”由于我所描述的可怕情况，我父亲的生命处于最大的危险之中。我的妻子和姐姐永远无法从恐惧中恢复过来。我求你不要再跟我讲道理了。占有你的公寓，让我飞离这个地方。”

‘Felix trembled violently as he said this. He and his companion entered the cottage, in which they remained for a few minutes, and then departed. I never saw any of the family of De Lacey more.
菲利克斯说这句话时浑身剧烈颤抖。他和他的同伴进入小屋，在那里停留了几分钟，然后离开了。我再也没有见过德拉赛的家人。

‘I continued for the remainder of the day in my hovel in a state of utter and stupid despair. My protectors had departed and had broken the only link that held me to the world. For the first time the feelings of revenge and hatred filled my bosom, and I did not strive to control them, but allowing myself to be borne away by the stream, I bent my mind towards injury and death. When I thought of my friends, of the mild voice of De Lacey, the gentle eyes of Agatha, and the exquisite beauty of the Arabian, these thoughts vanished and a gush of tears somewhat soothed me. But again when I reflected that they had spurned and deserted me, anger returned, a rage of anger, and unable to injure anything human, I turned my fury towards inanimate objects. As night advanced I placed a variety of combustibles around the cottage, and after having destroyed every vestige of cultivation in the garden, I waited with forced impatience until the moon had sunk to commence my operations.
“那天剩下的时间里，我一直呆在小屋里，处于一种完全愚蠢的绝望之中。我的保护者离开了，打破了我与世界的唯一联系。第一次，我的心中充满了复仇和仇恨的情绪，我没有努力去控制它们，而是让自己被溪水冲走，我一心想受伤和死。当我想起我的朋友们，想起德拉赛温柔的声音，想起阿加莎温柔的眼神，想起阿拉伯人的精致美丽时，这些想法就消失了，一股泪水使我多少得到了安慰。但当我再次想到他们已经抛弃并抛弃了我时，愤怒又回来了，愤怒的愤怒，无法伤害任何人类，我把愤怒转向了无生命的物体。夜幕降临时，我在小屋周围放置了各种可燃物，在摧毁了花园里所有的耕作痕迹后，我迫不及待地等待着月亮落下，开始我的行动。

‘As the night advanced, a fierce wind arose from the woods and quickly dispersed the clouds that had loitered in the heavens; the blast tore along like a mighty avalanche and produced a kind of insanity in my spirits that burst all bounds of reason and reflection. I lighted the dry branch of a tree and danced with fury around the devoted cottage, my eyes still fixed on the western horizon, the edge of which the moon nearly touched. A part of its orb was at length hid, and I waved my brand; it sank, and with a loud scream I fired the straw, and heath, and bushes, which I had collected. The wind fanned the fire, and the cottage was quickly enveloped by the flames, which clung to it and licked it with their forked and destroying tongues.
夜幕降临，一阵猛风从树林中吹起，很快就驱散了天空中的云彩；爆炸像一场巨大的雪崩一样撕裂，在我的精神中产生了一种疯狂，打破了所有理性和反思的界限。我点燃了一根干枯的树枝，在这座虔诚的小屋周围愤怒地跳舞，我的眼睛仍然盯着西方的地平线，月亮几乎触及地平线的边缘。它的球体的一部分终于被隐藏起来，我挥舞着我的牌子；它沉没了，伴随着一声响亮的尖叫，我点燃了我收集的稻草、石南花和灌木丛。风助长了火势，小屋很快就被火焰包围，火焰紧紧抓住小屋，用叉状、毁灭性的舌头舔舐小屋。

‘As soon as I was convinced that no assistance could save any part of the habitation, I quitted the scene and sought for refuge in the woods.
“当我确信任何援助都无法挽救住所的任何部分时，我就离开了现场，到树林里寻求庇护。

‘And now, with the world before me, whither should I bend my steps? I resolved to fly far from the scene of my misfortunes; but to me, hated and despised, every country must be equally horrible. At length the thought of you crossed my mind. I learned from your papers that you were my father, my creator; and to whom could I apply with more fitness than to him who had given me life? Among the lessons that Felix had bestowed upon Safie, geography had not been omitted; I had learned from these the relative situations of the different countries of the earth. You had mentioned Geneva as the name of your native town, and towards this place I resolved to proceed.
‘现在，世界摆在我面前，我该向何处弯曲脚步呢？我决定飞离我的不幸之地。但对我来说，每个被憎恨和鄙视的国家都同样可怕。终于，我的脑海里闪过关于你的念头。我从你的论文中得知，你是我的父亲，我的创造者；我还能向谁求助，而不是向给予我生命的他求助呢？菲利克斯给萨菲的课程中，地理也没有被忽略。我从中了解了地球上不同国家的相对情况。你提到日内瓦是你家乡的名字，我决定向这个地方前进。

‘But how was I to direct myself? I knew that I must travel in a southwesterly direction to reach my destination, but the sun was my only guide. I did not know the names of the towns that I was to pass through, nor could I ask information from a single human being; but I did not despair. From you only could I hope for succour, although towards you I felt no sentiment but that of hatred. Unfeeling, heartless creator! You had endowed me with perceptions and passions and then cast me abroad an object for the scorn and horror of mankind. But on you only had I any claim for pity and redress, and from you I determined to seek that justice which I vainly attempted to gain from any other being that wore the human form.
“但是我该如何引导自己呢？我知道我必须向西南方向行驶才能到达目的地，但太阳是我唯一的向导。我不知道我要经过的城镇的名称，也无法向任何人询问信息；但我并没有绝望。我只能从你那里得到帮助，尽管我对你除了仇恨之外没有任何感情。无情、无情的创造者！你赋予了我知觉和激情，然后又把我扔到国外，成为人类蔑视和恐惧的对象。但我只能向你寻求怜悯和补偿，并且我决心从你那里寻求正义，而我徒劳地试图从任何其他穿着人类形态的生物那里获得正义。

‘My travels were long and the sufferings I endured intense. It was late in autumn when I quitted the district where I had so long resided. I travelled only at night, fearful of encountering the visage of a human being. Nature decayed around me, and the sun became heatless; rain and snow poured around me; mighty rivers were frozen; the surface of the earth was hard and chill, and bare, and I found no shelter. Oh, earth! How often did I imprecate curses on the cause of my being! The mildness of my nature had fled, and all within me was turned to gall and bitterness. The nearer I approached to your habitation, the more deeply did I feel the spirit of revenge enkindled in my heart. Snow fell, and the waters were hardened, but I rested not. A few incidents now and then directed me, and I possessed a map of the country; but I often wandered wide from my path. The agony of my feelings allowed me no respite; no incident occurred from which my rage and misery could not extract its food; but a circumstance that happened when I arrived on the confines of Switzerland, when the sun had recovered its warmth and the earth again began to look green, confirmed in an especial manner the bitterness and horror of my feelings.
“我的旅行很漫长，我承受的痛苦也很强烈。当我离开长期居住的地区时，已是深秋了。我只在晚上出行，害怕遇到人的面孔。我周围的自然正在腐烂，太阳变得没有热量；雨雪倾盆而下；大江大河都结冰了；地表坚硬寒冷，光秃秃的，我找不到庇护所。哦，地球！我有多少次咒骂我的存在！我本性的温和已经消失，我的内心变成了胆怯和苦毒。越是靠近你的住处，我的心中就越是强烈地感受到了复仇的火焰。下雪了，水变硬了，但我没有休息。时不时发生的一些事件给我指明了方向，而且我还拥有一张这个国家的地图。但我常常偏离自己的道路。我内心的痛苦让我没有喘息的机会。没有一件事发生能让我的愤怒和痛苦从中汲取营养。但当我到达瑞士境内时，太阳已经恢复了温暖，大地又开始呈现绿色，发生的一件事以特别的方式证实了我的痛苦和恐惧。

‘I generally rested during the day and travelled only when I was secured by night from the view of man. One morning, however, finding that my path lay through a deep wood, I ventured to continue my journey after the sun had risen; the day, which was one of the first of spring, cheered even me by the loveliness of its sunshine and the balminess of the air. I felt emotions of gentleness and pleasure, that had long appeared dead, revive within me. Half surprised by the novelty of these sensations, I allowed myself to be borne away by them, and forgetting my solitude and deformity, dared to be happy. Soft tears again bedewed my cheeks, and I even raised my humid eyes with thankfulness towards the blessed sun, which bestowed such joy upon me.
“我通常在白天休息，只有在晚上远离人类视野时才出行。然而，有一天早上，我发现我的路穿过一片茂密的树林，于是我冒险在太阳升起后继续我的旅程。这一天是春天的第一天，美丽的阳光和宜人的空气甚至让我感到高兴。我感到早已消逝的温柔和愉悦的情感在我体内复活了。我对这些新奇的感觉感到有点惊讶，我让自己被它们带走，忘记了我的孤独和畸形，敢于快乐。柔软的泪水再次沾满了我的脸颊，我什至抬起湿润的眼睛，感谢给予我如此快乐的阳光。

‘I continued to wind among the paths of the wood, until I came to its boundary, which was skirted by a deep and rapid river, into which many of the trees bent their branches, now budding with the fresh spring. Here I paused, not exactly knowing what path to pursue, when I heard the sound of voices, that induced me to conceal myself under the shade of a cypress. I was scarcely hid when a young girl came running towards the spot where I was concealed, laughing, as if she ran from someone in sport. She continued her course along the precipitous sides of the river, when suddenly her foot slipped, and she fell into the rapid stream. I rushed from my hiding-place and with extreme labour, from the force of the current, saved her and dragged her to shore. She was senseless, and I endeavoured by every means in my power to restore animation, when I was suddenly interrupted by the approach of a rustic, who was probably the person from whom she had playfully fled. On seeing me, he darted towards me, and tearing the girl from my arms, hastened towards the deeper parts of the wood. I followed speedily, I hardly knew why; but when the man saw me draw near, he aimed a gun, which he carried, at my body and fired. I sank to the ground, and my injurer, with increased swiftness, escaped into the wood.
“我继续在林间小路中蜿蜒前行，直到到达了它的边界，边界周围是一条又深又急的河流，许多树木将树枝伸进河里，现在正带着新鲜的春天发芽。我在这里停下来，不知道该走哪条路，突然听到声音，引我躲到柏树荫下。我刚躲起来，一个年轻女孩朝我躲藏的地方跑来，笑着，好像她是在躲避运动中的人。她沿着陡峭的河岸继续前行，突然脚下一滑，掉进了急流中。我从藏身之处冲了出来，用极大的力气，借助水流的力量，救了她，把她拖到了岸边。她已经失去了知觉，我想尽一切办法恢复活力，这时一个乡下人突然走近，打断了我的谈话，他很可能就是她开玩笑地逃离的那个人。看到我，他猛地冲了过来，一把将女孩从我怀里拽了出来，急忙向树林深处走去。我很快地跟了上去，我几乎不知道为什么；但当那人看到我走近时，他用随身携带的枪瞄准我的身体并开了枪。我倒在了地上，而伤害我的人则以更快的速度逃进了树林。

‘This was then the reward of my benevolence! I had saved a human being from destruction, and as a recompense I now writhed under the miserable pain of a wound which shattered the flesh and bone. The feelings of kindness and gentleness which I had entertained but a few moments before gave place to hellish rage and gnashing of teeth. Inflamed by pain, I vowed eternal hatred and vengeance to all mankind. But the agony of my wound overcame me; my pulses paused, and I fainted.
‘这就是我的仁慈的回报！我从毁灭中拯救了一个人，作为补偿，我现在在骨肉粉碎的伤口的痛苦中翻腾。几分钟前我所怀有的仁慈和温柔的感觉被地狱般的愤怒和咬牙切齿所取代。痛苦如火，我发誓对全人类进行永恒的仇恨和复仇。但伤口的剧痛战胜了我；我的脉搏停止了，我晕了过去。

‘For some weeks I led a miserable life in the woods, endeavouring to cure the wound which I had received. The ball had entered my shoulder, and I knew not whether it had remained there or passed through; at any rate I had no means of extracting it. My sufferings were augmented also by the oppressive sense of the injustice and ingratitude of their infliction. My daily vows rose for revenge— a deep and deadly revenge, such as would alone compensate for the outrages and anguish I had endured.
“几个星期以来，我在树林里过着悲惨的生活，努力治愈我所受的伤口。球已经进入了我的肩膀，我不知道它是留在那儿还是穿过去；无论如何我没有办法提取它。他们所施加的不公正和忘恩负义的压抑感也加剧了我的痛苦。我每天都发誓要复仇——一次深刻而致命的复仇，只有这样才能补偿我所遭受的暴行和痛苦。

‘After some weeks my wound healed, and I continued my journey. The labours I endured were no longer to be alleviated by the bright sun or gentle breezes of spring; all joy was but a mockery which insulted my desolate state and made me feel more painfully that I was not made for the enjoyment of pleasure.
“几周后，我的伤口痊愈了，我继续我的旅程。我所承受的辛苦，不再是春天的明媚阳光和微风徐徐的减轻；所有的快乐都不过是一种嘲弄，侮辱了我荒凉的状态，让我更加痛苦地感到我生来就不是为了享受快乐的。

‘But my toils now drew near a close, and in two months from this time I reached the environs of Geneva.
“但我的辛劳现在已接近尾声，两个月后我到达了日内瓦郊区。

‘It was evening when I arrived, and I retired to a hiding-place among the fields that surround it to meditate in what manner I should apply to you. I was oppressed by fatigue and hunger and far too unhappy to enjoy the gentle breezes of evening or the prospect of the sun setting behind the stupendous mountains of Jura.
“我到达时已是傍晚，我躲到周围田野中的一个藏身之处，沉思应该以什么方式向你求助。我被疲劳和饥饿所困扰，而且非常不高兴，无法享受傍晚的微风或夕阳在汝拉山脉后面落下的景色。

‘At this time a slight sleep relieved me from the pain of reflection, which was disturbed by the approach of a beautiful child, who came running into the recess I had chosen, with all the sportiveness of infancy. Suddenly, as I gazed on him, an idea seized me that this little creature was unprejudiced and had lived too short a time to have imbibed a horror of deformity. If, therefore, I could seize him and educate him as my companion and friend, I should not be so desolate in this peopled earth.
“此时，轻微的睡眠使我摆脱了沉思的痛苦，一个美丽的孩子的走近扰乱了我的沉思，他带着婴儿般的嬉戏跑进了我选择的休息处。突然，当我注视着他时，我突然想到，这个小生物是没有偏见的，而且寿命太短，不会吸收畸形的恐惧。因此，如果我能抓住他，把他当作我的同伴和朋友来教育，我在这个人口稠密的地球上就不会如此荒凉了。

‘Urged by this impulse, I seized on the boy as he passed and drew him towards me. As soon as he beheld my form, he placed his hands before his eyes and uttered a shrill scream; I drew his hand forcibly from his face and said, ‘Child, what is the meaning of this? I do not intend to hurt you; listen to me.’
“在这种冲动的驱使下，当男孩经过时，我抓住了他，把他拉向我。他一看到我的身影，就把手放在眼前，发出一声尖叫。我强行把他的手从脸上拉开，说道：‘孩子，这是什么意思？我无意伤害你；听我说。'

‘He struggled violently. ‘Let me go,’ he cried; ‘monster! Ugly wretch! You wish to eat me and tear me to pieces. You are an ogre. Let me go, or I will tell my papa.’
’他剧烈地挣扎。 “放开我，”他喊道。 '怪物！丑陋的坏蛋！你想吃掉我，把我撕成碎片。你是一个食人魔。让我走，不然我就告诉我爸爸了。”

‘‘Boy, you will never see your father again; you must come with me.’
“孩子，你再也见不到你的父亲了；你必须跟我来。

‘‘Hideous monster! Let me go. My papa is a Syndic— he is M. Frankenstein—he will punish you. You dare not keep me.’
「可怕的怪物！让我走。我的爸爸是一名主教——他是弗兰肯斯坦先生——他会惩罚你。你不敢留我。

‘‘Frankenstein! you belong then to my enemy—to him towards whom I have sworn eternal revenge; you shall be my first victim.’
” “弗兰肯斯坦！那么你就属于我的敌人了——属于我发誓要永远报仇的他；你将是我的第一个受害者。

‘The child still struggled and loaded me with epithets which carried despair to my heart; I grasped his throat to silence him, and in a moment he lay dead at my feet.
“这孩子仍然挣扎着，给我说了很多让我心里绝望的辱骂；我掐住他的喉咙不让他安静，不一会儿他就死在我脚边了。

‘I gazed on my victim, and my heart swelled with exultation and hellish triumph; clapping my hands, I exclaimed, ‘I too can create desolation; my enemy is not invulnerable; this death will carry despair to him, and a thousand other miseries shall torment and destroy him.’
“我凝视着我的受害者，我的心充满了狂喜和地狱般的胜利；我拍手叫道：“我也能制造荒凉，我也能制造荒凉。”我的敌人并非无懈可击；这次死亡将给他带来绝望，还有上千种其他的痛苦将折磨和毁灭他。

‘As I fixed my eyes on the child, I saw something glittering on his breast. I took it; it was a portrait of a most lovely woman. In spite of my malignity, it softened and attracted me. For a few moments I gazed with delight on her dark eyes, fringed by deep lashes, and her lovely lips; but presently my rage returned; I remembered that I was forever deprived of the delights that such beautiful creatures could bestow and that she whose resemblance I contemplated would, in regarding me, have changed that air of divine benignity to one expressive of disgust and affright.
“当我注视着孩子时，我看到他胸前有东西闪闪发光。我拿了;这是一位最可爱的女人的肖像。尽管我充满恶意，但它却软化了我并吸引了我。有那么一会儿，我高兴地凝视着她的黑眼睛，长着浓密的睫毛，还有她可爱的嘴唇。但不久我的愤怒又回来了；我记得我永远失去了这些美丽的生物所能给予我的快乐，而我想象中的她与我相似，在看待我时，她会把神圣仁慈的神情变成一种厌恶和恐惧的表情。

‘Can you wonder that such thoughts transported me with rage? I only wonder that at that moment, instead of venting my sensations in exclamations and agony, I did not rush among mankind and perish in the attempt to destroy them.
“你能奇怪这样的想法让我愤怒吗？我只是想知道，在那一刻，我没有用感叹和痛苦来发泄我的感受，而是冲进人类之中，并在试图毁灭他们的过程中灭亡。

‘While l was overcome by these feelings, I left the spot where I had committed the murder, and seeking a more secluded hiding-place, I entered a barn which had appeared to me to be empty. A woman was sleeping on some straw; she was young, not indeed so beautiful as her whose portrait I held, but of an agreeable aspect and blooming in the loveliness of youth and health. Here, I thought, is one of those whose joy-imparting smiles are bestowed on all but me. And then I bent over her and whispered, ‘Awake, fairest, thy lover is near—he who would give his life but to obtain one look of affection from thine eyes; my beloved, awake!’
“当我被这些感觉所征服时，我离开了谋杀现场，寻找一个更僻静的藏身之处，我进入了一个在我看来是空的谷仓。一个女人睡在稻草上；她很年轻，虽然不像我手里拿着的肖像那样美丽，但容貌令人愉快，充满青春和健康的可爱。我想，这就是那些除了我以外所有人都向所有人微笑的人之一。然后我俯身对她低声说道：“醒醒吧，最美丽的人，你的爱人就在附近——他愿意献出自己的生命，只是为了从你的眼神中得到一丝深情的目光；”我的爱人，醒醒吧！”

‘The sleeper stirred; a thrill of terror ran through me. Should she indeed awake, and see me, and curse me, and denounce the murderer? Thus would she assuredly act if her darkened eyes opened and she beheld me. The thought was madness; it stirred the fiend within me—not I, but she, shall suffer; the murder I have committed because I am forever robbed of all that she could give me, she shall atone. The crime had its source in her; be hers the punishment! Thanks to the lessons of Felix and the sanguinary laws of man, I had learned now to work mischief. I bent over her and placed the portrait securely in one of the folds of her dress. She moved again, and I fled.
‘熟睡的人惊醒了；我感到一阵恐惧。她真的应该醒过来，看到我，咒骂我，告发凶手吗？如果她睁开漆黑的眼睛看到我，她一定会这么做。这个想法简直是疯狂。它激起了我内心的恶魔——受苦的不是我，而是她；我犯下了谋杀罪，因为我永远被剥夺了她能给我的一切，她将赎罪。罪孽的源头就在她身上。是她的惩罚！感谢菲利克斯的教训和人类的血腥法则，我现在学会了恶作剧。我弯下身子，把肖像稳稳地放在她裙子的一个褶皱里。她又动了，我就逃走了。

‘For some days I haunted the spot where these scenes had taken place, sometimes wishing to see you, sometimes resolved to quit the world and its miseries forever. At length I wandered towards these mountains, and have ranged through their immense recesses, consumed by a burning passion which you alone can gratify. We may not part until you have promised to comply with my requisition. I am alone and miserable; man will not associate with me; but one as deformed and horrible as myself would not deny herself to me. My companion must be of the same species and have the same defects. This being you must create.’
“有几天我在这些场景发生的地方出没，有时希望见到你，有时决心永远离开这个世界和它的痛苦。最后，我漫步走向这些山脉，穿过它们巨大的凹处，被一种只有你才能满足的燃烧的激情所吞噬。在你答应遵守我的要求之前我们不会分手。我孤独而痛苦；人不与我交往；但像我这样畸形而可怕的人不会向我否认自己。我的同伴一定是同一物种，并且有同样的缺陷。这是你必须创造的。

Chapter 17
第17章

The being finished speaking and fixed his looks upon me in the expectation of a reply. But I was bewildered, perplexed, and unable to arrange my ideas sufficiently to understand the full extent of his proposition. He continued,
那人说完，目光定定地看着我，等待着我的答复。但我感到困惑、困惑，无法充分整理我的想法来理解他的主张的全部内容。他继续，

‘You must create a female for me with whom I can live in the interchange of those sympathies necessary for my being. This you alone can do, and I demand it of you as a right which you must not refuse to concede.’
‘你必须为我创造一个女性，我可以与她生活在一起，相互交换我的存在所必需的同情心。只有你才能做到这一点，我要求你这样做，这是你不能拒绝承认的权利。

The latter part of his tale had kindled anew in me the anger that had died away while he narrated his peaceful life among the cottagers, and as he said this I could no longer suppress the rage that burned within me.
他的故事的后半部分重新点燃了我的愤怒，当他讲述他在村民中的平静生活时，我已经消退了，当他说这句话时，我再也无法抑制内心燃烧的愤怒。

‘I do refuse it,’ I replied; ‘and no torture shall ever extort a consent from me. You may render me the most miserable of men, but you shall never make me base in my own eyes. Shall I create another like yourself, whose joint wickedness might desolate the world. Begone! I have answered you; you may torture me, but I will never consent.’
“我确实拒绝，”我回答道。 ‘任何酷刑都不能迫使我同意。你可以让我成为最悲惨的人，但你永远不会让我在我自己眼中变得卑鄙。我是否应该再创造一个像你一样的人，他的共同邪恶可能会使世界变得荒凉。走开！我已经回答你了；你可以折磨我，但我绝不会同意。

‘You are in the wrong,’ replied the fiend; ‘and instead of threatening, I am content to reason with you. I am malicious because I am miserable. Am I not shunned and hated by all mankind? You, my creator, would tear me to pieces and triumph; remember that, and tell me why I should pity man more than he pities me? You would not call it murder if you could precipitate me into one of those ice-rifts and destroy my frame, the work of your own hands. Shall I respect man when he condemns me? Let him live with me in the interchange of kindness, and instead of injury I would bestow every benefit upon him with tears of gratitude at his acceptance. But that cannot be; the human senses are insurmountable barriers to our union. Yet mine shall not be the submission of abject slavery. I will revenge my injuries; if I cannot inspire love, I will cause fear, and chiefly towards you my archenemy, because my creator, do I swear inextinguishable hatred. Have a care; I will work at your destruction, nor finish until I desolate your heart, so that you shall curse the hour of your birth.’
“你错了，”恶魔回答道。 “我不去威胁，而是愿意和你讲道理。我是恶意的，因为我很痛苦。我不是被全人类所回避和憎恨吗？你，我的创造者，会把我撕成碎片并取得胜利；记住这一点，并告诉我为什么我应该怜悯人而不是他怜悯我？如果你能把我扔进那些冰裂缝之一并摧毁我的身体，你亲手的作品，你就不会称之为谋杀。当人谴责我时我应该尊重他吗？让他以善意的方式与我生活在一起，我会在他接受时流下感激的泪水，给予他一切好处，而不是伤害他。但事实并非如此；人类的感官是我们联盟不可逾越的障碍。但我不会屈服于卑鄙的奴役。我要报复我所受的伤害；如果我不能激发爱，我就会引起恐惧，尤其是对你，我的大敌，因为我的创造者，我发誓会产生不灭的仇恨。照顾一下；我会努力毁灭你，直到我荒凉你的心，这样你才会诅咒你出生的时刻。

A fiendish rage animated him as he said this; his face was wrinkled into contortions too horrible for human eyes to behold; but presently he calmed himself and proceeded-
说这句话的时候，他的内心充满了恶魔般的愤怒。他的脸布满皱纹，扭曲得人眼无法看到。但很快他就平静下来并继续——

‘I intended to reason. This passion is detrimental to me, for you do not reflect that you are the cause of its excess. If any being felt emotions of benevolence towards me, I should return them a hundred and a hundredfold; for that one creature’s sake I would make peace with the whole kind! But I now indulge in dreams of bliss that cannot be realized. What I ask of you is reasonable and moderate; I demand a creature of another sex, but as hideous as myself; the gratification is small, but it is all that I can receive, and it shall content me. It is true, we shall be monsters, cut off from all the world; but on that account we shall be more attached to one another. Our lives will not be happy, but they will be harmless and free from the misery I now feel. Oh! My creator, make me happy; let me feel gratitude towards you for one benefit! Let me see that I excite the sympathy of some existing thing; do not deny me my request!’
“我本来是想推理的。这种激情对我来说是有害的，因为你没有意识到你是这种激情过度的原因。若有众生对我有慈心，我当百倍报答；为了那个生物，我愿意与整个物种和平相处！但我现在沉迷于无法实现的幸福梦想。我对你的要求是合理的、适度的；我需要一个异性的生物，但和我一样丑陋；满足感虽小，但却是我所能得到的一切，我会感到满足。确实，我们将成为怪物，与世隔绝；但正因为如此，我们才会更加依恋彼此。我们的生活不会幸福，但会无害，不会像我现在所感受到的痛苦。哦！我的创造者，使我快乐；让我对你的一项好处表示感谢！让我看看我激起了一些现有事物的同情；不要拒绝我的请求！

I was moved. I shuddered when I thought of the possible consequences of my consent, but I felt that there was some justice in his argument. His tale and the feelings he now expressed proved him to be a creature of fine sensations, and did I not as his maker owe him all the portion of happiness that it was in my power to bestow? He saw my change of feeling and continued,
我很感动。当我想到我同意可能产生的后果时，我不寒而栗，但我觉得他的论点有一定道理。他的故事和他现在所表达的感情证明他是一个感情丰富的人，作为他的创造者，我难道不欠他我力所能及的全部幸福吗？他看出了我的情绪变化，继续说道：

‘If you consent, neither you nor any other human being shall ever see us again; I will go to the vast wilds of South America. My food is not that of man; I do not destroy the lamb and the kid to glut my appetite; acorns and berries afford me sufficient nourishment. My companion will be of the same nature as myself and will be content with the same fare. We shall make our bed of dried leaves; the sun will shine on us as on man and will ripen our food. The picture I present to you is peaceful and human, and you must feel that you could deny it only in the wantonness of power and cruelty. Pitiless as you have been towards me, I now see compassion in your eyes; let me seize the favourable moment and persuade you to promise what I so ardently desire.’
“如果你同意，你和任何其他人都不会再见到我们；我将前往南美洲广阔的荒野。我的食物不是人类的食物；我不会为了满足我的胃口而宰杀羔羊和山羊羔；橡子和浆果为我提供了足够的营养。我的同伴将与我具有相同的性质，并会满足于相同的票价。我们要用干树叶做床；太阳会像照在人身上一样照耀我们，并使我们的食物成熟。我向你呈现的画面是和平的、人性的，你一定觉得只有在权力的肆意和残酷中才能否认它。尽管你以前对我无情，但现在我在你的眼中看到了怜悯；让我抓住有利的时机，说服你答应我如此热切的愿望。

‘You propose,’ replied I, ‘to fly from the habitations of man, to dwell in those wilds where the beasts of the field will be your only companions. How can you, who long for the love and sympathy of man, persevere in this exile? You will return and again seek their kindness, and you will meet with their detestation; your evil passions will be renewed, and you will then have a companion to aid you in the task of destruction. This may not be; cease to argue the point, for I cannot consent.’
“你打算，”我回答道，“逃离人类的住所，到那些野外居住，那里的野兽将是你唯一的伙伴。渴望得到人类的爱与同情的你，如何能在这种流放中坚持下去呢？你回来再寻求他们的恩惠，却会遭到他们的憎恶；你的邪恶激情将会重燃，然后你就会有一个同伴来帮助你完成毁灭的任务。这可能不是；不要再争论这个问题了，因为我不能同意。”

‘How inconstant are your feelings! But a moment ago you were moved by my representations, and why do you again harden yourself to my complaints? I swear to you, by the earth which I inhabit, and by you that made me, that with the companion you bestow I will quit the neighbourhood of man and dwell, as it may chance, in the most savage of places. My evil passions will have fled, for I shall meet with sympathy! My life will flow quietly away, and in my dying moments I shall not curse my maker.’
‘你的感情多么反复无常啊！可刚才你还被我的陈述感动了，为什么又对我的抱怨如此强硬呢？我以我所居住的地球和创造我的你向你发誓，我将与你所赐予的同伴一起离开人类的邻里，并居住在最野蛮的地方。我的邪恶激情将会消失，因为我会得到同情！我的生命会静静地流逝，在我临死的时刻，我不会诅咒我的创造者。

His words had a strange effect upon me. I compassionated him and sometimes felt a wish to console him, but when I looked upon him, when I saw the filthy mass that moved and talked, my heart sickened and my feelings were altered to those of horror and hatred. I tried to stifle these sensations; I thought that as I could not sympathize with him, I had no right to withhold from him the small portion of happiness which was yet in my power to bestow.
他的话对我产生了一种奇怪的影响。我同情他，有时也想安慰他，但当我看着他，看到那群移动、说话的肮脏东西时，我的心感到恶心，我的感觉变成了恐惧和仇恨。我试图抑制这些感觉；但事实并非如此。我想，既然我无法同情他，我就没有权利拒绝给他我所能给予的那一小部分幸福。

‘You swear,’ I said, ‘to be harmless; but have you not already shown a degree of malice that should reasonably make me distrust you? May not even this be a feint that will increase your triumph by affording a wider scope for your revenge?’
“你发誓，”我说，“不会造成伤害；但你难道还没有表现出一定程度的恶意，足以让我不信任你吗？难道这不是一个佯攻，可以为你的复仇提供更大的范围，从而增加你的胜利吗？

‘How is this? I must not be trifled with, and I demand an answer. If I have no ties and no affections, hatred and vice must be my portion; the love of another will destroy the cause of my crimes, and I shall become a thing of whose existence everyone will be ignorant. My vices are the children of a forced solitude that I abhor, and my virtues will necessarily arise when I live in communion with an equal. I shall feel the affections of a sensitive being and became linked to the chain of existence and events from which I am now excluded.’
'这怎么样？我不能被轻视，我要求一个答案。如果我没有联系，没有感情，那么仇恨和罪恶就一定是我的一部分；对他人的爱将摧毁我的犯罪根源，而我将成为一个所有人都无视其存在的东西。我的恶习是我所厌恶的被迫孤独的产物，而当我与平等的人生活在一起时，我的美德必然会出现。我将感受到一个敏感存在的情感，并与我现在被排除在外的存在和事件的链条联系在一起。

I paused some time to reflect on all he had related and the various arguments which he had employed. I thought of the promise of virtues which he had displayed on the opening of his existence and the subsequent blight of all kindly feeling by the loathing and scorn which his protectors had manifested towards him. His power and threats were not omitted in my calculations; a creature who could exist in the ice caves of the glaciers and hide himself from pursuit among the ridges of inaccessible precipices was a being possessing faculties it would be vain to cope with. After a long pause of reflection I concluded that the justice due both to him and my fellow creatures demanded of me that I should comply with his request. Turning to him, therefore, I said,
我停下来思考了他所涉及的一切以及他所采用的各种论点。我想到了他在生命之初所表现出的美德承诺，以及随后他的保护者对他表现出的厌恶和蔑视所带来的所有善意的枯萎。我的计算中并没有忽略他的力量和威胁；一种生物能够存在于冰川的冰洞中，并在难以接近的悬崖山脊中隐藏自己以逃避追捕，这种生物拥有令人难以对付的能力。经过长时间的沉思，我得出结论，为了他和我的同胞的正义，我必须遵守他的要求。因此，我转向他说：

‘I consent to your demand, on your solemn oath to quit Europe forever, and every other place in the neighbourhood of man, as soon as I shall deliver into your hands a female who will accompany you in your exile.’
“我同意你的要求，你庄严宣誓，一旦我将一名陪伴你流亡的女性交到你手中，我就会永远离开欧洲和人类邻近的所有其他地方。”

‘I swear,’ he cried, ‘by the sun, and by the blue sky of heaven, and by the fire of love that burns my heart, that if you grant my prayer, while they exist you shall never behold me again. Depart to your home and commence your labours; I shall watch their progress with unutterable anxiety; and fear not but that when you are ready I shall appear.’
“我发誓，”他喊道，“以太阳，以天堂的蓝天，以燃烧我心的爱火发誓，如果你答应我的祈祷，只要它们存在，你就再也见不到我了。”出发回家，开始工作；我将怀着难以言喻的焦虑注视着他们的进展；不要担心，当你准备好时，我就会出现。

Saying this, he suddenly quitted me, fearful, perhaps, of any change in my sentiments. I saw him descend the mountain with greater speed than the flight of an eagle, and quickly lost among the undulations of the sea of ice.
说完这句话，他突然离开了我，也许是担心我的情绪有任何变化。只见他以比鹰飞还要快的速度下了山，很快就消失在冰海的起伏之中。

His tale had occupied the whole day, and the sun was upon the verge of the horizon when he departed. I knew that I ought to hasten my descent towards the valley, as I should soon be encompassed in darkness; but my heart was heavy, and my steps slow. The labour of winding among the little paths of the mountain and fixing my feet firmly as I advanced perplexed me, occupied as I was by the emotions which the occurrences of the day had produced. Night was far advanced when I came to the halfway resting-place and seated myself beside the fountain. The stars shone at intervals as the clouds passed from over them; the dark pines rose before me, and every here and there a broken tree lay on the ground; it was a scene of wonderful solemnity and stirred strange thoughts within me. I wept bitterly, and clasping my hands in agony, I exclaimed, ‘Oh! Stars and clouds and winds, ye are all about to mock me; if ye really pity me, crush sensation and memory; let me become as nought; but if not, depart, depart, and leave me in darkness.’
他的故事花了一整天的时间，当他离开时，太阳已经接近地平线了。我知道我应该加快向山谷下降的速度，因为我很快就会被黑暗所包围。但我的心情很沉重，脚步也很缓慢。我在山上的小路中蜿蜒前进，并在前进时牢牢地固定住双脚，这让我感到困惑，因为我被当天发生的事情所产生的情绪占据了。当我来到半路休息处，在喷泉边坐下时，夜色已深。当云彩从星星上空掠过时，星星时不时地闪烁着。黑色的松树在我面前拔地而起，到处都有一棵折断的树躺在地上。那场面非常庄严，在我心里激起了奇怪的想法。我痛哭起来，痛苦地握紧双手，喊道：“哎呀！星星、云朵、风，你们都在嘲笑我；如果你们真的可怜我，就粉碎感觉和记忆；让我变得虚无；但如果没有，那就走吧，走吧，把我留在黑暗中。”

These were wild and miserable thoughts, but I cannot describe to you how the eternal twinkling of the stars weighed upon me and how I listened to every blast of wind as if it were a dull ugly siroc on its way to consume me.
这些都是疯狂而悲惨的想法，但我无法向你描述永恒闪烁的星星如何压在我身上，以及我如何聆听每一阵风的声音，仿佛它是一个沉闷丑陋的西洛克，正在吞噬我。

Morning dawned before I arrived at the village of Chamounix; I took no rest, but returned immediately to Geneva. Even in my own heart I could give no expression to my sensations—they weighed on me with a mountain’s weight and their excess destroyed my agony beneath them. Thus I returned home, and entering the house, presented myself to the family. My haggard and wild appearance awoke intense alarm, but I answered no question, scarcely did I speak. I felt as if I were placed under a ban—as if I had no right to claim their sympathies— as if never more might I enjoy companionship with them. Yet even thus I loved them to adoration; and to save them, I resolved to dedicate myself to my most abhorred task. The prospect of such an occupation made every other circumstance of existence pass before me like a dream, and that thought only had to me the reality of life.
天刚亮，我就到达了夏穆尼村。我没有休息，立即返回日内瓦。即使在我自己的心里，我也无法表达我的感觉——它们像一座大山一样沉重地压在我身上，它们的过度摧毁了我在它们下面的痛苦。于是我回到家，走进屋子，向家人介绍自己。我憔悴而狂野的外表引起了强烈的警惕，但我没有回答任何问题，几乎没有说话。我感觉自己仿佛被置于禁令之下——仿佛我没有权利获得他们的同情——仿佛我再也无法享受与他们的陪伴。但即便如此，我还是爱他们如痴如醉；为了拯救他们，我决心献身于我最憎恶的任务。这种职业的前景使所有其他存在的情况都像一场梦一样在我面前流逝，而这种想法对我来说只有生活的现实。

Chapter 18
第18章

Day after day, week after week, passed away on my return to Geneva; and I could not collect the courage to recommence my work. I feared the vengeance of the disappointed fiend, yet I was unable to overcome my repugnance to the task which was enjoined me. I found that I could not compose a female without again devoting several months to profound study and laborious disquisition. I had heard of some discoveries having been made by an English philosopher, the knowledge of which was material to my success, and I sometimes thought of obtaining my father’s consent to visit England for this purpose; but I clung to every pretence of delay and shrank from taking the first step in an undertaking whose immediate necessity began to appear less absolute to me. A change indeed had taken place in me; my health, which had hitherto declined, was now much restored; and my spirits, when unchecked by the memory of my unhappy promise, rose proportionably. My father saw this change with pleasure, and he turned his thoughts towards the best method of eradicating the remains of my melancholy, which every now and then would return by fits, and with a devouring blackness overcast the approaching sunshine. At these moments I took refuge in the most perfect solitude. I passed whole days on the lake alone in a little boat, watching the clouds and listening to the rippling of the waves, silent and listless. But the fresh air and bright sun seldom failed to restore me to some degree of composure, and on my return I met the salutations of my friends with a readier smile and a more cheerful heart.
日复一日，一周复一周，我回到日内瓦就这样过去了；我无法鼓起勇气重新开始我的工作。我担心失望的恶魔会报复，但我无法克服对交给我的任务的厌恶。我发现，如果我不再花几个月的时间进行深入的学习和艰苦的研究，我就无法创作一首女性歌曲。我听说过一位英国哲学家的一些发现，这些发现对我的成功至关重要，有时我会考虑征得父亲的同意，为此目的访问英国；但我坚持以各种借口拖延，不敢迈出第一步，因为对我来说，这项事业的迫切需要开始变得不那么绝对。我确实发生了变化；我的健康状况虽然一直在恶化，但现在已经恢复了很多。当我不去回忆那些不愉快的诺言时，我的精神就会相应地好起来。父亲高兴地看到了这种变化，他把心思转向了消除我残留的忧郁的最佳方法，这种忧郁时不时地会回来，并以吞噬一切的黑暗笼罩着即将到来的阳光。在这些时刻，我在最完美的孤独中寻求庇护。我一整天独自在湖上划着小船，看云朵，听涛声，沉默而无精打采。但新鲜的空气和明亮的阳光总是能让我恢复一定程度的平静，当我回来时，我会以更轻松的微笑和更愉快的心情迎接朋友们的问候。

It was after my return from one of these rambles that my father, calling me aside, thus addressed me,
就在我逛了一圈回来后，父亲把我叫到一边，这样对我说道：

‘I am happy to remark, my dear son, that you have resumed your former pleasures and seem to be returning to yourself. And yet you are still unhappy and still avoid our society. For some time I was lost in conjecture as to the cause of this, but yesterday an idea struck me, and if it is well founded, I conjure you to avow it. Reserve on such a point would be not only useless, but draw down treble misery on us all.’
“我很高兴地说，我亲爱的儿子，你已经恢复了以前的快乐，而且似乎正在回归自我。然而你仍然不快乐，仍然回避我们的社会。一段时间以来，我一直在猜测其原因，但昨天我突然想到了一个想法，如果它有充分的根据，我恳求你承认它。在这一点上的保留不仅毫无用处，还会给我们所有人带来三倍的痛苦。

I trembled violently at his exordium, and my father continued— ‘I confess, my son, that I have always looked forward to your marriage with our dear Elizabeth as the tie of our domestic comfort and the stay of my declining years. You were attached to each other from your earliest infancy; you studied together, and appeared, in dispositions and tastes, entirely suited to one another. But so blind is the experience of man that what I conceived to be the best assistants to my plan may have entirely destroyed it. You, perhaps, regard her as your sister, without any wish that she might become your wife. Nay, you may have met with another whom you may love; and considering yourself as bound in honour to Elizabeth, this struggle may occasion the poignant misery which you appear to feel.’
我听了他的序言，浑身发抖，父亲继续说道：“我承认，我的儿子，我一直期待着你和我们亲爱的伊丽莎白的婚姻，作为我们家庭舒适的纽带和我晚年的停留。”你们从婴儿时期起就彼此依恋；你们一起学习，而且在性格和品味上都显得完全适合。但人类的经验是如此盲目，以至于我认为是我计划的最佳助手的东西可能完全摧毁了它。也许你只是把她当作你的妹妹，并不希望她成为你的妻子。不，你可能遇到了另一个你可能爱的人；考虑到自己对伊丽莎白的荣誉负有责任，这场斗争可能会引起你似乎感受到的痛苦。

‘My dear father, reassure yourself. I love my cousin tenderly and sincerely. I never saw any woman who excited, as Elizabeth does, my warmest admiration and affection. My future hopes and prospects are entirely bound up in the expectation of our union.’
‘我亲爱的父亲，请放心吧。我温柔而真诚地爱着我的表弟。我从未见过任何女人像伊丽莎白那样激起我最热烈的钦佩和喜爱。我未来的希望和前景完全取决于我们工会的期望。

‘The expression of your sentiments of this subject, my dear Victor, gives me more pleasure than I have for some time experienced. If you feel thus, we shall assuredly be happy, however present events may cast a gloom over us. But it is this gloom which appears to have taken so strong a hold of your mind that I wish to dissipate. Tell me, therefore, whether you object to an immediate solemnization of the marriage. We have been unfortunate, and recent events have drawn us from that everyday tranquillity befitting my years and infirmities. You are younger; yet l do not suppose, possessed as you are of a competent fortune, that an early marriage would at all interfere with any future plans of honour and utility that you may have formed. Do not suppose, however, that I wish to dictate happiness to you or that a delay on your part would cause me any serious uneasiness. Interpret my words with candour and answer me, I conjure you, with confidence and sincerity.’
“我亲爱的维克多，你对这个话题的情感表达给我带来了一段时间以来从未有过的快乐。如果你有这样的感觉，我们一定会感到高兴，但目前的事件可能会给我们蒙上一层阴影。但正是这种忧郁似乎牢牢地占据了你的心灵，我希望能够驱散它。因此，告诉我你是否反对立即举行婚礼。我们很不幸，最近发生的事件使我们失去了与我的年龄和体质相称的日常宁静。你还年轻；然而，我不认为，由于你拥有足够的财富，早婚根本不会干扰你可能制定的任何未来的荣誉和功利计划。然而，不要以为我想把幸福主宰给你，或者你的拖延会给我带来任何严重的不安。请坦诚地解释我的话，并充满信心和真诚地回答我，我召唤你。”

I listened to my father in silence and remained for some time incapable of offering any reply. I revolved rapidly in my mind a multitude of thoughts and endeavoured to arrive at some conclusion. Alas! To me the idea of an immediate union with my Elizabeth was one of horror and dismay. I was bound by a solemn promise which I had not yet fulfilled and dared not break, or if I did, what manifold miseries might not impend over me and my devoted family! Could I enter into a festival with this deadly weight yet hanging round my neck and bowing me to the ground? I must perform my engagement and let the monster depart with his mate before I allowed myself to enjoy the delight of a union from which I expected peace.
我默默地听着父亲的话，一时间无法回答。我的脑子里飞快地旋转着许多想法，并努力得出一些结论。唉!对我来说，立即与我的伊丽莎白结合的想法是一种恐惧和沮丧。我受到了一个庄严的承诺的约束，但我还没有兑现，也不敢兑现，否则，我和我忠诚的家人可能不会遭受多少痛苦！我能带着如此致命的重量参加一个节日，但却挂在我的脖子上，让我跪倒在地吗？我必须履行我的约定，让怪物和他的伴侣离开，然后才能让自己享受我期待和平的结合的喜悦。

I remembered also the necessity imposed upon me of either journeying to England or entering into a long correspondence with those philosophers of that country whose knowledge and discoveries were of indispensable use to me in my present undertaking. The latter method of obtaining the desired intelligence was dilatory and unsatisfactory; besides, I had an insurmountable aversion to the idea of engaging myself in my loathsome task in my father’s house while in habits of familiar intercourse with those I loved. I knew that a thousand fearful accidents might occur, the slightest of which would disclose a tale to thrill all connected with me with horror. I was aware also that I should often lose all self-command, all capacity of hiding the harrowing sensations that would possess me during the progress of my unearthly occupation. I must absent myself from all I loved while thus employed. Once commenced, it would quickly be achieved, and I might be restored to my family in peace and happiness. My promise fulfilled, the monster would depart forever. Or (so my fond fancy imaged) some accident might meanwhile occur to destroy him and put an end to my slavery forever.
我还记得我必须要么去英国旅行，要么与那个国家的哲学家进行长期通信，他们的知识和发现对我目前的事业来说是不可或缺的。后一种获取所需情报的方法既拖沓又不能令人满意。此外，我对在父亲家里从事令人厌恶的工作，同时又习惯于与我所爱的人进行熟悉的交往，有一种难以克服的厌恶。我知道可能会发生一千个可怕的事故，其中最轻微的事故都会揭露一个让所有与我有关的恐怖故事。我还意识到，我经常会失去所有的自制力，失去所有隐藏在我的超凡职业过程中会占据我的痛苦感觉的能力。在这样工作的同时，我必须远离我所爱的一切。一旦开始，很快就会实现，我就可以回到家人身边，过上平安幸福的生活。我的承诺实现了，怪物将永远消失。或者（所以我的幻想想象）同时可能会发生一些事故来摧毁他并永远结束我的奴隶制。

These feelings dictated my answer to my father. I expressed a wish to visit England, but concealing the true reasons of this request, I clothed my desires under a guise which excited no suspicion, while I urged my desire with an earnestness that easily induced my father to comply. After so long a period of an absorbing melancholy that resembled madness in its intensity and effects, he was glad to find that I was capable of taking pleasure in the idea of such a journey, and he hoped that change of scene and varied amusement would, before my return, have restored me entirely to myself.
这些感受决定了我对父亲的回答。我表达了访问英国的愿望，但隐瞒了这一请求的真正原因，我用不会引起怀疑的幌子掩盖了我的愿望，同时我以诚挚的态度催促了我的愿望，很容易诱导我父亲答应。经过这么长一段时间的令人着迷的忧郁，其强度和效果类似于疯狂，他很高兴发现我能够从这样的旅程的想法中得到乐趣，他希望场景的变化和不同的娱乐会，在我回来之前，我已经完全恢复了自我。

The duration of my absence was left to my own choice; a few months, or at most a year, was the period contemplated. One paternal kind precaution he had taken to ensure my having a companion. Without previously communicating with me, he had, in concert with Elizabeth, arranged that Clerval should join me at Strasbourg. This interfered with the solitude I coveted for the prosecution of my task; yet at the commencement of my journey the presence of my friend could in no way be an impediment, and truly I rejoiced that thus I should be saved many hours of lonely, maddening reflection. Nay, Henry might stand between me and the intrusion of my foe. If I were alone, would he not at times force his abhorred presence on me to remind me of my task or to contemplate its progress?
我缺席的时间由我自己选择；所设想的期限是几个月，或者最多一年。他采取了一种父亲般的预防措施，以确保我有一个同伴。事先没有与我沟通，他与伊丽莎白一起安排克莱瓦尔到斯特拉斯堡与我会合。这妨碍了我在完成任务时所渴望的孤独。然而，在我的旅程开始时，我朋友的存在绝不会成为一个障碍，我真的很高兴，这样我就可以省去许多小时的孤独、令人发狂的思考。不，亨利可能会站在我和敌人的入侵之间。如果我独自一人，他有时会不会强迫我以他令人憎恶的方式出现，以提醒我我的任务或思考它的进展？

To England, therefore, I was bound, and it was understood that my union with Elizabeth should take place immediately on my return. My father’s age rendered him extremely averse to delay. For myself, there was one reward I promised myself from my detested toils— one consolation for my unparalleled sufferings; it was the prospect of that day when, enfranchised from my miserable slavery, I might claim Elizabeth and forget the past in my union with her.
因此，我必须去英国，而且大家都知道，我一回来就应该立即与伊丽莎白结合。我父亲的年龄让他极其不愿意拖延。对于我自己来说，我向自己许诺从我所厌恶的辛劳中得到一种回报——一种对我无与伦比的痛苦的安慰；一种对我自己的安慰。那天的前景是，我从悲惨的奴隶制中解放出来，可以拥有伊丽莎白，并在与她的结合中忘记过去。

I now made arrangements for my journey, but one feeling haunted me which filled me with fear and agitation. During my absence I should leave my friends unconscious of the existence of their enemy and unprotected from his attacks, exasperated as he might be by my departure. But he had promised to follow me wherever I might go, and would he not accompany me to England? This imagination was dreadful in itself, but soothing inasmuch as it supposed the safety of my friends. I was agonized with the idea of the possibility that the reverse of this might happen. But through the whole period during which I was the slave of my creature I allowed myself to be governed by the impulses of the moment; and my present sensations strongly intimated that the fiend would follow me and exempt my family from the danger of his machinations.
我现在已经安排好行程了，但有一种感觉一直萦绕在我的心头，让我充满了恐惧和不安。在我不在期间，我应该让我的朋友们不知道他们的敌人的存在，并且不受他的攻击，尽管他可能会因为我的离开而感到愤怒。但他答应我无论去哪里都会跟着我，他不会陪我去英国吗？这种想象本身就很可怕，但又让人感到安慰，因为它假定了我朋友们的安全。一想到这种情况可能会发生相反的情况，我就感到痛苦不已。但在我作为我的生物的奴隶的整个时期里，我让自己被一时的冲动所控制。我现在的感觉强烈地暗示，恶魔会跟踪我，并让我的家人免受他阴谋的危险。

It was in the latter end of September that I again quitted my native country. My journey had been my own suggestion, and Elizabeth therefore acquiesced, but she was filled with disquiet at the idea of my suffering, away from her, the inroads of misery and grief. It had been her care which provided me a companion in Clerval—and yet a man is blind to a thousand minute circumstances which call forth a woman’s sedulous attention. She longed to bid me hasten my return; a thousand conflicting emotions rendered her mute as she bade me a tearful, silent farewell.
九月底，我再次离开了祖国。我的旅程是我自己的建议，因此伊丽莎白默许了，但一想到我离开她而受苦，痛苦和悲伤的侵袭，她就充满了不安。正是她的照顾，让我在克莱瓦尔有了一个同伴——然而，一个男人却对引起女人全神贯注的一千分钟的情况视而不见。她渴望吩咐我赶快回来；当她含泪、无声地向我告别时，千百种相互矛盾的情绪使她哑口无言。

I threw myself into the carriage that was to convey me away, hardly knowing whither I was going, and careless of what was passing around. I remembered only, and it was with a bitter anguish that I reflected on it, to order that my chemical instruments should be packed to go with me. Filled with dreary imaginations, I passed through many beautiful and majestic scenes, but my eyes were fixed and unobserving. I could only think of the bourne of my travels and the work which was to occupy me whilst they endured.
我一头扎进了要送我走的马车里，几乎不知道自己要去哪里，也不在乎周围发生了什么。我只记得，我回想起这件事时感到非常痛苦，命令把我的化学仪器打包带走。满怀沉闷的想象，我经历了许多美丽而雄伟的景象，但我的眼睛却是固定的，不观察。我只能想到我旅行的目的，以及在他们忍受期间我要从事的工作。

After some days spent in listless indolence, during which I traversed many leagues, I arrived at Strasbourg, where I waited two days for Clerval. He came. Alas, how great was the contrast between us! He was alive to every new scene, joyful when he saw the beauties of the setting sun, and more happy when he beheld it rise and recommence a new day. He pointed out to me the shifting colours of the landscape and the appearances of the sky. ‘This is what it is to live,’ he cried; ‘how I enjoy existence! But you, my dear Frankenstein, wherefore are you desponding and sorrowful!’ In truth, I was occupied by gloomy thoughts and neither saw the descent of the evening star nor the golden sunrise reflected in the Rhine. And you, my friend, would be far more amused with the journal of Clerval, who observed the scenery with an eye of feeling and delight, than in listening to my reflections. I, a miserable wretch, haunted by a curse that shut up every avenue to enjoyment.
在无精打采地度过了几天之后，我穿越了许多里格，到达了斯特拉斯堡，在那里我等了克莱瓦尔两天。他来了。唉，我们之间的反差是多么大呀！他对每一个新的场景都充满活力，当他看到夕阳的美丽时，他很高兴，当他看到太阳升起并重新开始新的一天时，他更加高兴。他向我指出了风景颜色的变化和天空的外观。 “这就是生活，”他喊道。 ‘我多么享受存在啊！而你，我亲爱的弗兰肯斯坦，你为什么如此沮丧和悲伤呢？”事实上，我的心里充满了忧郁的思绪，既没有看到黄昏之星的坠落，也没有看到莱茵河上倒映的金色日出。而你，我的朋友，对克莱瓦尔的日记会比听我的思考更有趣，他用情感和喜悦的眼睛观察风景。我，一个悲惨的可怜虫，被诅咒所困扰，关闭了所有享受的途径。

We had agreed to descend the Rhine in a boat from Strasbourg to Rotterdam, whence we might take shipping for London. During this voyage we passed many willowy islands and saw several beautiful towns. We stayed a day at Mannheim, and on the fifth from our departure from Strasbourg, arrived at Mainz. The course of the Rhine below Mainz becomes much more picturesque. The river descends rapidly and winds between hills, not high, but steep, and of beautiful forms. We saw many ruined castles standing on the edges of precipices, surrounded by black woods, high and inaccessible. This part of the Rhine, indeed, presents a singularly variegated landscape. In one spot you view rugged hills, ruined castles overlooking tremendous precipices, with the dark Rhine rushing beneath; and on the sudden turn of a promontory, flourishing vineyards with green sloping banks and a meandering river and populous towns occupy the scene.
我们同意从斯特拉斯堡乘船沿莱茵河而下到达鹿特丹，然后从那里乘船前往伦敦。在这次航行中，我们经过了许多柳树成荫的岛屿，看到了几个美丽的城镇。我们在曼海姆停留了一天，离开斯特拉斯堡后的第五天到达美因茨。美因茨下方的莱茵河河道变得更加风景如画。河水急流而下，蜿蜒在山间，山不高，但陡峭，形态优美。我们看到许多城堡废墟矗立在悬崖边上，周围都是黑色的树林，高高难进。事实上，莱茵河的这一部分呈现出奇特多彩的景观。在一个地方，你可以看到崎岖的山丘、废墟的城堡，俯瞰着巨大的悬崖，黑暗的莱茵河在下面奔涌而过；在海角的突然转弯处，繁茂的葡萄园、绿色的倾斜河岸、蜿蜒的河流和人口稠密的城镇占据了整个场景。

We travelled at the time of the vintage and heard the song of the labourers as we glided down the stream. Even I, depressed in mind, and my spirits continually agitated by gloomy feelings, even I was pleased. I lay at the bottom of the boat, and as I gazed on the cloudless blue sky, I seemed to drink in a tranquillity to which I had long been a stranger. And if these were my sensations, who can describe those of Henry? He felt as if he had been transported to fairy-land and enjoyed a happiness seldom tasted by man. ‘I have seen,’ he said, ‘the most beautiful scenes of my own country; I have visited the lakes of Lucerne and Uri, where the snowy mountains descend almost perpendicularly to the water, casting black and impenetrable shades, which would cause a gloomy and mournful appearance were it not for the most verdant islands that relieve the eye by their gay appearance; I have seen this lake agitated by a tempest, when the wind tore up whirlwinds of water and gave you an idea of what the water-spout must be on the great ocean; and the waves dash with fury the base of the mountain, where the priest and his mistress were overwhelmed by an avalanche and where their dying voices are still said to be heard amid the pauses of the nightly wind; I have seen the mountains of La Valais, and the Pays de Vaud; but this country, Victor, pleases me more than all those wonders. The mountains of Switzerland are more majestic and strange, but there is a charm in the banks of this divine river that I never before saw equalled. Look at that castle which overhangs yon precipice; and that also on the island, almost concealed amongst the foliage of those lovely trees; and now that group of labourers coming from among their vines; and that village half hid in the recess of the mountain. Oh, surely the spirit that inhabits and guards this place has a soul more in harmony with man than those who pile the glacier or retire to the inaccessible peaks of the mountains of our own country.’ Clerval! Beloved friend! Even now it delights me to record your words and to dwell on the praise of which you are so eminently deserving. He was a being formed in the ‘very poetry of nature.’ His wild and enthusiastic imagination was chastened by the sensibility of his heart. His soul overflowed with ardent affections, and his friendship was of that devoted and wondrous nature that the world-minded teach us to look for only in the imagination. But even human sympathies were not sufficient to satisfy his eager mind. The scenery of external nature, which others regard only with admiration, he loved with ardour:—
我们在收获季节旅行，沿着溪流滑行时听到了劳动者的歌声。就连我，心情郁闷，心情郁闷的时候，也很高兴。我躺在船底，看着万里无云的蓝天，我似乎沉浸在一种久违的宁静之中。如果这是我的感觉，谁能描述亨利的感觉呢？他感觉自己仿佛进入了仙境，享受着人类难得一尝的幸福。 “我看到了，”他说，“我自己国家最美丽的风景；我去过卢塞恩湖和乌里湖，那里的雪山几乎垂直于水面而下，投下黑色的、难以穿透的阴影，如果不是有那些最青翠的岛屿以它们的欢快舒缓眼睛，这会显得阴郁而哀伤。外貌;我见过这个湖被暴风雨搅动，风卷起旋风般的水流，让你知道大海上的水龙卷是什么；海浪猛烈地冲向山脚，牧师和他的情妇在那里被雪崩淹没，据说在夜风的停顿中仍然可以听到他们临终时的声音。我见过拉瓦莱州的山脉和沃州地区；但维克多，这个国家比所有这些奇迹更让我高兴。瑞士的山脉更加雄伟奇特，但这条神圣河流的两岸却有一种我从未见过的魅力。看看悬崖上那座城堡；同样在岛上，几乎隐藏在那些可爱的树木的叶子之中；现在那群工人从他们的葡萄树中走来；那个村庄一半隐藏在山的深处。 哦，当然，居住和守护这个地方的精神比那些堆砌冰川或隐居到我们国家难以到达的山峰的​​人有着更与人类和谐的灵魂。”克莱瓦尔！亲爱的朋友！即使是现在，我仍然很高兴记录下您的话，并细想您理所当然应得的赞扬。他是一个在“大自然的诗意”中形成的人。他狂野而热情的想象力被他内心的敏感所磨练。他的灵魂充满了热烈的感情，他的友谊具有忠诚而奇妙的本质，而世俗的人告诉我们只能在想象中寻找。但即使是人类的同情心也不足以满足他急切的心灵。 别人只以钦佩之情看待的外在自然风景，他却热爱不已：——

——-The sounding cataract
————发声的白内障

Haunted him like a passion: the tall rock,
像一种激情一样困扰着他：高大的岩石，

The mountain, and the deep and gloomy wood,
山，还有幽深阴森的树林，

Their colours and their forms, were then to him
它们的颜色和形状，对他来说

An appetite; a feeling, and a love,
有食欲；一种感觉，一种爱，

That had no need of a remoter charm,
那不需要更遥远的魅力，

By thought supplied, or any interest
通过提供的想法或任何兴趣

Unborrow’d from the eye.*
从眼睛中借用。*

[*Wordsworth’s ‘Tintern Abbey”.]
[*华兹华斯的《丁登修道院》。]

And where does he now exist? Is this gentle and lovely being lost forever? Has this mind, so replete with ideas, imaginations fanciful and magnificent, which formed a world, whose existence depended on the life of its creator; — has this mind perished? Does it now only exist in my memory? No, it is not thus; your form so divinely wrought, and beaming with beauty, has decayed, but your spirit still visits and consoles your unhappy friend.
而他现在又在哪里呢？难道这份温柔可爱就永远消失了吗？是否有这样的心灵，充满了思想、幻想和宏伟的想象，形成了一个世界，这个世界的存在依赖于它的创造者的生命？ ——这个心已经灭亡了吗？现在它只存在于我的记忆中吗？不，事实并非如此；你的形体如此神圣地塑造，散发着美丽的光芒，已经腐烂了，但你的精神仍然拜访并安慰你不幸的朋友。

Pardon this gush of sorrow; these ineffectual words are but a slight tribute to the unexampled worth of Henry, but they soothe my heart, overflowing with the anguish which his remembrance creates. I will proceed with my tale.
请原谅这股悲伤；这些无效的话只是对亨利无与伦比的价值的轻微致敬，但它们抚慰了我的心，我的心充满了对他的记忆所造成的痛苦。我将继续我的故事。

Beyond Cologne we descended to the plains of Holland; and we resolved to post the remainder of our way, for the wind was contrary and the stream of the river was too gentle to aid us. Our journey here lost the interest arising from beautiful scenery, but we arrived in a few days at Rotterdam, whence we proceeded by sea to England. It was on a clear morning, in the latter days of December, that I first saw the white cliffs of Britain. The banks of the Thames presented a new scene; they were flat but fertile, and almost every town was marked by the remembrance of some story. We saw Tilbury Fort and remembered the Spanish Armada, Gravesend, Woolwich, and Greenwich— places which I had heard of even in my country.
越过科隆，我们来到了荷兰平原。我们决定继续走剩下的路，因为风势相反，河水太缓，无法帮助我们。我们在这里的旅程失去了因美丽的风景而产生的兴趣，但几天后我们到达了鹿特丹，从那里乘船前往英国。十二月末的一个晴朗的早晨，我第一次看到英国的白色悬崖。泰晤士河畔呈现出新的景象；它们地势平坦，但土地肥沃，几乎每个城镇都留下了某个故事的记忆。我们看到了蒂尔伯里堡，想起了西班牙无敌舰队、格雷夫森德、伍尔维奇和格林威治——这些地方我什至在自己的国家都听说过。

At length we saw the numerous steeples of London, St. Paul’s towering above all, and the Tower famed in English history.
最后，我们看到了伦敦众多的尖塔，其中最引人注目的是圣保罗大教堂，还有在英国历史上闻名的伦敦塔。

Chapter 19
第19章

London was our present point of rest; we determined to remain several months in this wonderful and celebrated city. Clerval desired the intercourse of the men of genius and talent who flourished at this time, but this was with me a secondary object; I was principally occupied with the means of obtaining the information necessary for the completion of my promise and quickly availed myself of the letters of introduction that I had brought with me, addressed to the most distinguished natural philosophers.
伦敦是我们目前的休息地；我们决定在这座美丽而著名的城市停留几个月。克莱瓦尔渴望与当时蓬勃发展的天才和才华横溢的人交往，但这对我来说是次要的目标。我主要忙于获取完成我的承诺所需的信息，并很快利用我带来的介绍信，这些信是写给最杰出的自然哲学家的。

If this journey had taken place during my days of study and happiness, it would have afforded me inexpressible pleasure. But a blight had come over my existence, and I only visited these people for the sake of the information they might give me on the subject in which my interest was so terribly profound. Company was irksome to me; when alone, I could fill my mind with the sights of heaven and earth; the voice of Henry soothed me, and I could thus cheat myself into a transitory peace. But busy, uninteresting, joyous faces brought back despair to my heart. I saw an insurmountable barrier placed between me and my fellow men; this barrier was sealed with the blood of William and Justine, and to reflect on the events connected with those names filled my soul with anguish.
如果这次旅行发生在我学习和快乐的日子里，那将给我带来难以言喻的快乐。但我的生活受到了困扰，我拜访这些人只是为了他们可能会向我提供有关我非常感兴趣的主题的信息。陪伴让我感到厌烦。独处时，心中充满天地之景；亨利的声音安抚了我，我因此可以欺骗自己进入短暂的平静。但忙碌的、无趣的、欢乐的面孔却让我的内心再次感到绝望。我看到我和我的同胞之间存在着一道不可逾越的障碍；这道屏障是用威廉和贾斯汀的鲜血封印的，回想起与这些名字相关的事件，我的灵魂充满了痛苦。

But in Clerval I saw the image of my former self; he was inquisitive and anxious to gain experience and instruction. The difference of manners which he observed was to him an inexhaustible source of instruction and amusement. He was also pursuing an object he had long had in view. His design was to visit India, in the belief that he had in his knowledge of its various languages, and in the views he had taken of its society, the means of materially assisting the progress of European colonization and trade. In Britain only could he further the execution of his plan. He was forever busy, and the only check to his enjoyments was my sorrowful and dejected mind. I tried to conceal this as much as possible, that I might not debar him from the pleasures natural to one who was entering on a new scene of life, undisturbed by any care or bitter recollection. I often refused to accompany him, alleging another engagement, that I might remain alone. I now also began to collect the materials necessary for my new creation, and this was to me like the torture of single drops of water continually falling on the head. Every thought that was devoted to it was an extreme anguish, and every word that I spoke in allusion to it caused my lips to quiver, and my heart to palpitate.
但在克莱瓦尔身上，我看到了以前的自己的影子；他充满好奇心，渴望获得经验和指导。他所观察到的不同的举止对他来说是取之不尽、用之不竭的教育和娱乐源泉。他也在追求一个他一直以来渴望的目标。他的计划是访问印度，相信他对印度各种语言的了解，以及他对印度社会的看法，是为欧洲殖民和贸易的进步提供物质帮助的手段。只有在英国，他才能进一步执行他的计划。他永远忙碌，唯一阻碍他享受的就是我悲伤沮丧的心情。我试图尽可能地隐瞒这一点，以免妨碍他享受自然的快乐，因为他正进入一个新的生活场景，不受任何忧虑或痛苦回忆的干扰。我经常拒绝陪伴他，声称还有约，这样我就可以独自一人了。我现在也开始收集新创作所需的材料，这对我来说就像一滴水不断落在头上的折磨。每一个与它有关的想法都是一种极度的痛苦，我所说的每一个暗示它的词都让我的嘴唇颤抖，我的心悸动。

After passing some months in London, we received a letter from a person in Scotland who had formerly been our visitor at Geneva. He mentioned the beauties of his native country and asked us if those were not sufficient allurements to induce us to prolong our journey as far north as Perth, where he resided. Clerval eagerly desired to accept this invitation, and I, although I abhorred society, wished to view again mountains and streams and all the wondrous works with which Nature adorns her chosen dwelling-places. We had arrived in England at the beginning of October, and it was now February. We accordingly determined to commence our journey towards the north at the expiration of another month. In this expedition we did not intend to follow the great road to Edinburgh, but to visit Windsor, Oxford, Matlock, and the Cumberland lakes, resolving to arrive at the completion of this tour about the end of July. I packed up my chemical instruments and the materials I had collected, resolving to finish my labours in some obscure nook in the northern highlands of Scotland.
在伦敦呆了几个月后，我们收到了一封来自苏格兰的人的来信，他曾是我们在日内瓦的访客。他提到了他祖国的美丽景色，并问我们这些是否还不足以吸引我们延长旅程，一直向北到达他居住的珀斯。克莱瓦尔热切地希望接受这个邀请，而我，尽管我厌恶社会，但希望再次看到山脉和溪流以及大自然装饰她选择的居所的所有奇妙作品。我们十月初抵达英国，现在已经是二月了。于是我们决定再过一个月就启程北上。这次探险我们并没有打算沿着大路去爱丁堡，而是去参观温莎、牛津、马特洛克和坎伯兰湖，并决定在七月底左右完成这次旅行。我收拾好我的化学仪器和收集到的材料，决定在苏格兰北部高地的某个不起眼的角落完成我的工作。

We quitted London on the 27th of March and remained a few days at Windsor, rambling in its beautiful forest. This was a new scene to us mountaineers; the majestic oaks, the quantity of game, and the herds of stately deer were all novelties to us.
3 月 27 日，我们离开伦敦，在温莎停留了几天，在美丽的森林中漫步。这对于我们登山者来说是一个新的景象；雄伟的橡树、数量众多的猎物以及成群威严的鹿群对我们来说都是新奇的。

From thence we proceeded to Oxford. As we entered this city our minds were filled with the remembrance of the events that had been transacted there more than a century and a half before. It was here that Charles I had collected his forces. This city had remained faithful to him, after the whole nation had forsaken his cause to join the standard of Parliament and liberty. The memory of that unfortunate king and his companions, the amiable Falkland, the insolent Goring, his queen, and son, gave a peculiar interest to every part of the city which they might be supposed to have inhabited. The spirit of elder days found a dwelling here, and we delighted to trace its footsteps. If these feelings had not found an imaginary gratification, the appearance of the city had yet in itself sufficient beauty to obtain our admiration. The colleges are ancient and picturesque; the streets are almost magnificent; and the lovely Isis, which flows beside it through meadows of exquisite verdure, is spread forth into a placid expanse of waters, which reflects its majestic assemblage of towers, and spires, and domes, embosomed among aged trees.
从那里我们前往牛津。当我们进入这座城市时，我们的脑海里充满了一个半世纪前发生的事件的回忆。查理一世正是在这里集结了他的军队。在整个国家放弃了他加入议会和自由旗帜的事业之后，这座城市仍然忠于他。对那位不幸的国王和他的同伴、和蔼可亲的福克兰、傲慢无礼的戈林、他的王后和儿子的记忆，使这座城市的每一个他们可能居住的地方都产生了特殊的兴趣。远古的精神在这里找到了栖身之所，我们很高兴追寻它的足迹。如果这些感觉没有找到想象中的满足，那么这座城市的外观本身就已经足够美丽，足以让我们赞叹不已。学院古老而风景如画；街道几乎是壮丽的；可爱的伊希斯河在它旁边流过翠绿的草地，伸入一片平静的水域，映照出它雄伟的塔楼、尖顶和圆顶，镶嵌在古老的树木中。

I enjoyed this scene, and yet my enjoyment was embittered both by the memory of the past and the anticipation of the future. I was formed for peaceful happiness. During my youthful days discontent never visited my mind, and if I was ever overcome by ennui, the sight of what is beautiful in nature or the study of what is excellent and sublime in the productions of man could always interest my heart and communicate elasticity to my spirits. But I am a blasted tree; the bolt has entered my soul; and I felt then that I should survive to exhibit what I shall soon cease to be—a miserable spectacle of wrecked humanity, pitiable to others and intolerable to myself.
我很享受这个场景，但我的享受因对过去的记忆和对未来的期待而变得痛苦。我的诞生是为了和平的幸福。在我年轻的时候，不满从来没有出现在我的脑海中，如果我曾经感到厌倦，看到大自然的美丽或研究人类创造的优秀和崇高总是可以引起我的心的兴趣，并给我带来弹性。我的精神。但我是一棵被诅咒的树；闪电已经进入我的灵魂；那时我觉得我应该活下去，展示我很快将不再存在的东西——人性遭到破坏的悲惨景象，对别人来说是可怜的，对我自己来说是无法忍受的。

We passed a considerable period at Oxford, rambling among its environs and endeavouring to identify every spot which might relate to the most animating epoch of English history. Our little voyages of discovery were often prolonged by the successive objects that presented themselves. We visited the tomb of the illustrious Hampden and the field on which that patriot fell. For a moment my soul was elevated from its debasing and miserable fears to contemplate the divine ideas of liberty and self sacrifice of which these sights were the monuments and the remembrancers. For an instant I dared to shake off my chains and look around me with a free and lofty spirit, but the iron had eaten into my flesh, and I sank again, trembling and hopeless, into my miserable self.
我们在牛津度过了相当长的一段时间，在它的周围漫步，努力找出每一个可能与英国历史上最活跃的时代有关的地方。我们的小小发现之旅常常因为相继出现的物体而被延长。我们参观了杰出的汉普顿的坟墓和那位爱国者倒下的战场。有一瞬间，我的灵魂从卑鄙而悲惨的恐惧中得到提升，开始思考自由和自我牺牲的神圣观念，这些景象就是这些观念的纪念碑和纪念者。一瞬间，我敢于挣脱枷锁，以一种自由而崇高的精神环顾四周，但铁已经侵蚀了我的肉体，我再次陷入了颤抖和绝望，陷入了悲惨的自我之中。

We left Oxford with regret and proceeded to Matlock, which was our next place of rest. The country in the neighbourhood of this village resembled, to a greater degree, the scenery of Switzerland; but everything is on a lower scale, and the green hills want the crown of distant white Alps which always attend on the piny mountains of my native country. We visited the wondrous cave and the little cabinets of natural history, where the curiosities are disposed in the same manner as in the collections at Servox and Chamounix. The latter name made me tremble when pronounced by Henry, and I hastened to quit Matlock, with which that terrible scene was thus associated.
我们带着遗憾离开了牛津，前往马特洛克，这是我们的下一个休息地。这个村庄附近的乡村在很大程度上类似于瑞士的风景。但一切都处于较低的规模，绿色的山丘想要遥远的白色阿尔卑斯山的皇冠，而这些阿尔卑斯山总是出现在我祖国的松树山脉上。我们参观了奇妙的洞穴和自然历史的小柜子，里面的珍奇物品以与 Servox 和 Chamounix 的藏品相同的方式放置。当亨利说出后一个名字时，我浑身发抖，我赶紧离开马特洛克，因为那可怕的一幕就与马特洛克联系在一起。

From Derby, still journeying northwards, we passed two months in Cumberland and Westmorland. I could now almost fancy myself among the Swiss mountains. The little patches of snow which yet lingered on the northern sides of the mountains, the lakes, and the dashing of the rocky streams were all familiar and dear sights to me. Here also we made some acquaintances, who almost contrived to cheat me into happiness. The delight of Clerval was proportionably greater than mine; his mind expanded in the company of men of talent, and he found in his own nature greater capacities and resources than he could have imagined himself to have possessed while he associated with his inferiors. ‘I could pass my life here,’ said he to me; ‘and among these mountains I should scarcely regret Switzerland and the Rhine.’
从德比出发，继续向北行驶，我们在坎伯兰和威斯特摩兰度过了两个月。我现在几乎可以想象自己置身于瑞士的群山之中。北边的山峦、湖泊、湍急的岩石溪流，都是我熟悉而亲切的景象。在这里我们还结识了一些熟人，他们几乎想方设法骗我走向幸福。克莱瓦尔的高兴程度比我还要大。他的思想在与才华横溢的人交往中得到扩展，他发现自己的本性比他在与下属交往时所能想象到的更强大的能力和资源。 “我可以在这里度过一生，”他对我说。 “在这些山脉中，我几乎不会后悔瑞士和莱茵河。”

But he found that a traveller’s life is one that includes much pain amidst its enjoyments. His feelings are forever on the stretch; and when he begins to sink into repose, he finds himself obliged to quit that on which he rests in pleasure for something new, which again engages his attention, and which also he forsakes for other novelties.
但他发现，旅人的生活是一种享受中夹杂着痛苦的生活。他的感情永远处于紧张状态；当他开始陷入平静时，他发现自己不得不放弃他所依赖的快乐，去寻找新的东西，这再次吸引了他的注意力，同时他也为了其他新奇事物而放弃了它。

We had scarcely visited the various lakes of Cumberland and Westmorland and conceived an affection for some of the inhabitants when the period of our appointment with our Scotch friend approached, and we left them to travel on. For my own part I was not sorry. I had now neglected my promise for some time, and I feared the effects of the daemon’s disappointment. He might remain in Switzerland and wreak his vengeance on my relatives. This idea pursued me and tormented me at every moment from which I might otherwise have snatched repose and peace. I waited for my letters with feverish impatience; if they were delayed I was miserable and overcome by a thousand fears; and when they arrived and I saw the superscription of Elizabeth or my father, I hardly dared to read and ascertain my fate. Sometimes I thought that the fiend followed me and might expedite my remissness by murdering my companion. When these thoughts possessed me, I would not quit Henry for a moment, but followed him as his shadow, to protect him from the fancied rage of his destroyer. I felt as if I had committed some great crime, the consciousness of which haunted me. I was guiltless, but I had indeed drawn down a horrible curse upon my head, as mortal as that of crime.
当我们与苏格兰朋友的约会时间临近时，我们几乎没有参观过坎伯兰和威斯特摩兰的各个湖泊，并对一些居民产生了感情，我们就离开他们继续旅行。就我个人而言，我并不感到遗憾。我已经有一段时间忽视了我的承诺，我担心恶魔的失望会带来影响。他可能会留在瑞士，向我的亲戚报仇。这种想法每时每刻都在追赶着我，折磨着我，否则我本可以从中获得安宁与平静。我焦急地等待着我的来信。如果他们迟到了，我就会很痛苦，并且会被千百种恐惧所克服。当他们到达时，我看到伊丽莎白或我父亲的铭文，我几乎不敢阅读和确定我的命运。有时我想，恶魔跟踪了我，可能会谋杀我的同伴，以加速我的疏忽。当这些想法占据我的心时，我一刻也不会离开亨利，而是像他的影子一样跟随他，保护他免受毁灭者想象中的愤怒。我感觉自己好像犯了某种大罪，这种感觉一直萦绕在我的心头。我是无罪的，但我确实给自己下了一个可怕的诅咒，就像犯罪一样致命。

I visited Edinburgh with languid eyes and mind; and yet that city might have interested the most unfortunate being. Clerval did not like it so well as Oxford, for the antiquity of the latter city was more pleasing to him. But the beauty and regularity of the new town of Edinburgh, its romantic castle and its environs, the most delightful in the world, Arthur’s Seat, St. Bernard’s Well, and the Pentland Hills compensated him for the change and filled him with cheerfulness and admiration. But I was impatient to arrive at the termination of my journey.
我带着慵懒的眼睛和心灵参观了爱丁堡；然而那个城市可能会引起最不幸的人的兴趣。克莱瓦尔不像牛津那样喜欢它，因为后者的古老城市更令他满意。但爱丁堡新城区的美丽和规律性、浪漫的城堡及其周边地区、世界上最令人愉悦的地方、亚瑟王座、圣伯纳德井和彭特兰山补偿了他的变化，让他充满了快乐和钦佩。 。但我迫不及待地想到达旅程的终点​​。

We left Edinburgh in a week, passing through Coupar, St. Andrew’s, and along the banks of the Tay, to Perth, where our friend expected us. But I was in no mood to laugh and talk with strangers or enter into their feelings or plans with the good humour expected from a guest; and accordingly I told Clerval that I wished to make the tour of Scotland alone. ‘Do you,’ said I, ‘enjoy yourself, and let this be our rendezvous. I may be absent a month or two; but do not interfere with my motions, I entreat you; leave me to peace and solitude for a short time; and when I return, I hope it will be with a lighter heart, more congenial to your own temper.
一周后，我们离开爱丁堡，途经库帕尔、圣安德鲁斯，沿着泰河岸，到达珀斯，我们的朋友正在那里等我们。但我没有心情与陌生人大笑、交谈，也没有心情以客人所期望的幽默方式了解他们的感受或计划；因此我告诉克莱瓦尔我想独自游览苏格兰。 “你玩得开心吗？”我说，“就让这成为我们的约会吧。”我可能会缺席一两个月；但请不要干涉我的行动，我恳求你；让我享受短暂的平静与孤独；当我回来时，我希望我的心情会更轻松，更适合你自己的脾气。

Henry wished to dissuade me, but seeing me bent on this plan, ceased to remonstrate. He entreated me to write often. ‘I had rather be with you,’ he said, ‘in your solitary rambles, than with these Scotch people, whom I do not know; hasten, then, my dear friend, to return, that I may again feel myself somewhat at home, which I cannot do in your absence.’
亨利本想劝阻我，但见我一意孤行，便不再劝阻。他恳求我经常写信。 “我宁愿和你们一起，”他说，“在你们孤独的漫步中，也不愿和这些我不认识的苏格兰人在一起。那么，我亲爱的朋友，快点回来吧，这样我就可以再次感到宾至如归了，而你不在的时候我就做不到这一点。

Having parted from my friend, I determined to visit some remote spot of Scotland and finish my work in solitude. I did not doubt but that the monster followed me and would discover himself to me when I should have finished, that he might receive his companion. With this resolution I traversed the northern highlands and fixed on one of the remotest of the Orkneys as the scene of my labours. It was a place fitted for such a work, being hardly more than a rock whose high sides were continually beaten upon by the waves. The soil was barren, scarcely affording pasture for a few miserable cows, and oatmeal for its inhabitants, which consisted of five persons, whose gaunt and scraggy limbs gave tokens of their miserable fare. Vegetables and bread, when they indulged in such luxuries, and even fresh water, was to be procured from the mainland, which was about five miles distant.
与朋友告别后，我决定去苏格兰的某个偏远地方，独自完成我的工作。我毫不怀疑，怪物跟着我，当我应该完成时，他会发现自己，以便他可以接待他的同伴。带着这个决心，我穿越了北部高地，并选定了奥克尼群岛最偏远的地方之一作为我的工作地点。这是一个适合做这样的工作的地方，只不过是一块岩石，其高边不断地受到海浪的冲击。土地贫瘠，几乎无法为几头可怜的奶牛提供牧场，也无法为其五个居民提供燕麦片，他们的四肢瘦弱，骨瘦如柴，这表明他们的食物很悲惨。当他们享受如此奢侈的生活时，蔬菜和面包，甚至淡水，都要从距离大约五英里的大陆购买。

On the whole island there were but three miserable huts, and one of these was vacant when I arrived. This I hired. It contained but two rooms, and these exhibited all the squalidness of the most miserable penury. The thatch had fallen in, the walls were unplastered, and the door was off its hinges. I ordered it to be repaired, bought some furniture, and took possession, an incident which would doubtless have occasioned some surprise had not all the senses of the cottagers been benumbed by want and squalid poverty. As it was, I lived ungazed at and unmolested, hardly thanked for the pittance of food and clothes which I gave, so much does suffering blunt even the coarsest sensations of men.
整个岛上只有三间简陋的小屋，我到达时其中一间是空的。这是我雇来的。它只有两个房间，这些房间都表现出最悲惨的贫困的所有肮脏。茅草已经倒塌，墙壁没有抹灰，门也脱开了铰链。我下令修理它，买了一些家具，并占有了它，如果不是所有的村民都因匮乏和肮脏的贫困而麻木的话，这件事无疑会引起一些惊讶。事实上，我过着不受注视和骚扰的生活，几乎不感谢我所给予的微薄的食物和衣服，苦难甚至使人们最粗俗的感觉变得迟钝。

In this retreat I devoted the morning to labour; but in the evening, when the weather permitted, I walked on the stony beach of the sea to listen to the waves as they roared and dashed at my feet. It was a monotonous yet ever-changing scene. I thought of Switzerland; it was far different from this desolate and appalling landscape. Its hills are covered with vines, and its cottages are scattered thickly in the plains. Its fair lakes reflect a blue and gentle sky, and when troubled by the winds, their tumult is but as the play of a lively infant when compared to the roarings of the giant ocean.
在这次静修中，我把上午的时间都花在了劳动上。但到了晚上，天气允许的时候，我就走在海边的石滩上，聆听海浪咆哮、拍打我脚下的声音。这是一个单调但又不断变化的场景。我想到了瑞士；与这荒凉凄凉的景象截然不同。它的山丘上爬满了藤蔓，村舍密密麻麻地散布在平原上。美丽的湖水倒映着蔚蓝而温柔的天空，风吹来时，湖水的喧闹与大海的咆哮相比，不过是活泼婴儿的嬉戏。

In this manner I distributed my occupations when I first arrived, but as I proceeded in my labour, it became every day more horrible and irksome to me. Sometimes I could not prevail on myself to enter my laboratory for several days, and at other times I toiled day and night in order to complete my work. It was, indeed, a filthy process in which I was engaged. During my first experiment, a kind of enthusiastic frenzy had blinded me to the horror of my employment; my mind was intently fixed on the consummation of my labour, and my eyes were shut to the horror of my proceedings. But now I went to it in cold blood, and my heart often sickened at the work of my hands.
当我第一次到达时，我就是这样分配我的职业的，但是随着我继续工作，它对我来说变得一天比一天可怕和令人厌烦。有时我好几天都无法进入实验室，有时我夜以继日地努力完成工作。这确实是我所参与的一个肮脏的过程。在我的第一次实验中，一种狂热的情绪让我看不到工作中的恐怖。我的心思全神贯注于我的劳动的完成，我的眼睛对我的过程的恐怖视而不见。但现在我却冷酷无情地去做，而且我的心经常因我双手的工作而感到恶心。

Thus situated, employed in the most detestable occupation, immersed in a solitude where nothing could for an instant call my attention from the actual scene in which I was engaged, my spirits became unequal; I grew restless and nervous. Every moment I feared to meet my persecutor. Sometimes I sat with my eyes fixed on the ground, fearing to raise them lest they should encounter the object which I so much dreaded to behold. I feared to wander from the sight of my fellow creatures lest when alone he should come to claim his companion.
就这样，我从事着最令人憎恶的职业，沉浸在一种孤独之中，没有什么可以瞬间将我的注意力从我所从事的实际场景中转移出来，我的精神变得不平等；我变得焦躁不安和紧张。我每时每刻都害怕见到迫害我的人。有时我坐着，眼睛盯着地面，不敢抬起它们，以免它们遇到我非常害怕看到的物体。我害怕离开我的同胞们的视线，生怕当他独自一人时，他会来找他的同伴。

In the mean time I worked on, and my labour was already considerably advanced. I looked towards its completion with a tremulous and eager hope, which I dared not trust myself to question but which was intermixed with obscure forebodings of evil that made my heart sicken in my bosom.
在我工作的同时，我的工作已经相当顺利了。我怀着颤抖而热切的希望期待着它的完成，我不敢相信自己会质疑它，但它与邪恶的不祥预感混合在一起，使我的心在我的怀里感到恶心。

Chapter 20
第20章

I sat one evening in my laboratory; the sun had set, and the moon was just rising from the sea; I had not sufficient light for my employment, and I remained idle, in a pause of consideration of whether I should leave my labour for the night or hasten its conclusion by an unremitting attention to it. As I sat, a train of reflection occurred to me which led me to consider the effects of what I was now doing. Three years before, I was engaged in the same manner and had created a fiend whose unparalleled barbarity had desolated my heart and filled it forever with the bitterest remorse. I was now about to form another being of whose dispositions I was alike ignorant; she might become ten thousand times more malignant than her mate and delight, for its own sake, in murder and wretchedness. He had sworn to quit the neighbourhood of man and hide himself in deserts, but she had not; and she, who in all probability was to become a thinking and reasoning animal, might refuse to comply with a compact made before her creation. They might even hate each other; the creature who already lived loathed his own deformity, and might he not conceive a greater abhorrence for it when it came before his eyes in the female form? She also might turn with disgust from him to the superior beauty of man; she might quit him, and he be again alone, exasperated by the fresh provocation of being deserted by one of his own species.
一天晚上，我坐在实验室里。太阳已经落山，月亮刚刚从海上升起。我没有足够的光线来工作，所以我一直无所事事，暂停考虑是否应该把我的工作留到晚上，还是通过不懈的关注来加速它的结束。当我坐下来时，我进行了一系列反思，引导我考虑我现在所做的事情的影响。三年前，我也曾以同样的方式造就了一个恶魔，他的野蛮无比，让我的心变得荒凉，永远充满了最痛苦的悔恨。我现在正要形成另一个人，我对他的性情同样一无所知。她可能会变得比她的伴侣更加邪恶一万倍，并且为了谋杀和不幸而快乐。他发誓要远离人类，躲进沙漠，但她没有；而她很可能会成为一种思考和推理的动物，她可能会拒绝遵守在她被创造之前制定的契约。他们甚至可能互相憎恨；这个已经活着的生物厌恶自己的畸形，当它以女性形态出现在他眼前时，他难道不会对它产生更大的厌恶吗？她也可能会厌恶地转向男人的卓越之美。她可能会离开他，而他又会变得孤身一人，被同族抛弃的新挑衅激怒。

Even if they were to leave Europe and inhabit the deserts of the new world, yet one of the first results of those sympathies for which the daemon thirsted would be children, and a race of devils would be propagated upon the earth who might make the very existence of the species of man a condition precarious and full of terror. Had I right, for my own benefit, to inflict this curse upon everlasting generations? I had before been moved by the sophisms of the being I had created; I had been struck senseless by his fiendish threats; but now, for the first time, the wickedness of my promise burst upon me; I shuddered to think that future ages might curse me as their pest, whose selfishness had not hesitated to buy its own peace at the price, perhaps, of the existence of the whole human race.
即使他们离开欧洲，居住在新世界的沙漠中，恶魔所渴望的同情的第一个结果就是孩子，而恶魔的种族将在地球上繁殖，他们可能会创造出真正的恶魔。人类的存在是一种不稳定且充满恐怖的状况。为了我自己的利益，我是否有权对永世后代施加这种诅咒？我以前曾被我所创造的存在的诡辩所感动；我被他恶毒的威胁弄得失去知觉。但现在，我的许诺的邪恶性第一次向我袭来。一想到未来的时代可能会诅咒我为他们的害虫，我就感到不寒而栗，他们的自私毫不犹豫地以全人类的存在为代价来换取自己的和平。

I trembled and my heart failed within me, when, on looking up, I saw by the light of the moon the daemon at the casement. A ghastly grin wrinkled his lips as he gazed on me, where I sat fulfilling the task which he had allotted to me. Yes, he had followed me in my travels; he had loitered in forests, hid himself in caves, or taken refuge in wide and desert heaths; and he now came to mark my progress and claim the fulfillment of my promise.
当我抬起头时，我在月光下看到了窗外的恶魔，我浑身颤抖，心力交瘁。当他凝视着我时，他的嘴唇皱起，露出可怕的笑容，我坐在那里完成他分配给我的任务。是的，他在我的旅行中一直跟随我；他曾在森林里闲逛，躲在山洞里，或者在广阔的沙漠荒原中避难。现在他来见证我的进步并要求我履行诺言。

As I looked on him, his countenance expressed the utmost extent of malice and treachery. I thought with a sensation of madness on my promise of creating another like to him, and trembling with passion, tore to pieces the thing on which I was engaged. The wretch saw me destroy the creature on whose future existence he depended for happiness, and with a howl of devilish despair and revenge, withdrew.
当我看着他时，他的脸上流露出极度的恶意和背叛。我带着一种疯狂的感觉想到我承诺创造另一个像他一样的人，并因激情而颤抖，把我所从事的事情撕成碎片。这个可怜虫看到我摧毁了这个他赖以幸福的未来存在的生物，带着邪恶的绝望和复仇的嚎叫，退出了。

I left the room, and locking the door, made a solemn vow in my own heart never to resume my labours; and then, with trembling steps, I sought my own apartment. I was alone; none were near me to dissipate the gloom and relieve me from the sickening oppression of the most terrible reveries.
我离开了房间，锁上了门，在心里发誓不再继续我的工作；然后，我迈着颤抖的脚步，寻找自己的公寓。我独自一人；没有人在我身边驱散我的忧郁，让我摆脱最可怕的幻想所带来的令人作呕的压迫。

Several hours passed, and I remained near my window gazing on the sea; it was almost motionless, for the winds were hushed, and all nature reposed under the eye of the quiet moon. A few fishing vessels alone specked the water, and now and then the gentle breeze wafted the sound of voices as the fishermen called to one another. I felt the silence, although I was hardly conscious of its extreme profundity, until my ear was suddenly arrested by the paddling of oars near the shore, and a person landed close to my house.
几个小时过去了，我仍然站在窗边凝视着大海。它几乎一动不动，因为风已经安静了，所有的自然都在安静的月光下休息。水面上只剩下几艘渔船，微风徐徐地吹来，时不时传来渔民们的叫声。我感觉到了寂静，尽管我几乎没有意识到它的极度深邃，直到我的耳朵突然被岸边桨的划动声吸引住了，一个人在我家附近登陆。

In a few minutes after, I heard the creaking of my door, as if some one endeavoured to open it softly. I trembled from head to foot; I felt a presentiment of who it was and wished to rouse one of the peasants who dwelt in a cottage not far from mine; but I was overcome by the sensation of helplessness, so often felt in frightful dreams, when you in vain endeavour to fly from an impending danger, and was rooted to the spot.
几分钟后，我听到门吱吱作响，好像有人试图轻轻地打开它。我从头到脚都在颤抖；我预感到那人是谁，想叫醒住在离我家不远的一间小屋里的一位农民。但我却被一种无助的感觉所征服，这种感觉常常出现在可怕的梦中，当你徒劳地试图逃离迫在眉睫的危险时，却被困在原地。

Presently I heard the sound of footsteps along the passage; the door opened, and the wretch whom I dreaded appeared. Shutting the door, he approached me and said in a smothered voice, ‘You have destroyed the work which you began; what is it that you intend? Do you dare to break your promise? I have endured toil and misery; I left Switzerland with you; I crept along the shores of the Rhine, among its willow islands and over the summits of its hills. I have dwelt many months in the heaths of England and among the deserts of Scotland. I have endured incalculable fatigue, and cold, and hunger; do you dare destroy my hopes?’
不久我就听到过道上有脚步声。门开了，我害怕的那个坏蛋出现了。他关上门，走近我，用压抑的声音说道：“你已经毁掉了你开始的工作；你到底想做什么？你敢食言吗？我曾受过辛劳和苦难；我和你一起离开了瑞士；我沿着莱茵河沿岸爬行，穿过柳树岛屿，越过山峰。我在英格兰的荒原和苏格兰的沙漠中居住了好几个月。我忍受了难以估量的疲劳、寒冷和饥饿；你敢破坏我的希望吗？

‘Begone! I do break my promise; never will I create another like yourself, equal in deformity and wickedness.’
‘走吧！我确实违背了我的诺言；我永远不会创造另一个像你一样的畸形和邪恶的人。

‘Slave, I before reasoned with you, but you have proved yourself unworthy of my condescension. Remember that I have power; you believe yourself miserable, but I can make you so wretched that the light of day will be hateful to you. You are my creator, but I am your master; obey!’
‘奴婢，我之前曾与你理论过，但你已经证明了自己不值得我居高临下。请记住，我有力量；你以为自己很痛苦，但我可以让你变得如此悲惨，以至于白天的阳光都会让你感到可恨。你是我的创造者，我却是你的主人；遵守！'

‘The hour of my irresolution is past, and the period of your power is arrived. Your threats cannot move me to do an act of wickedness; but they confirm me in a determination of not creating you a companion in vice. Shall I, in cool blood, set loose upon the earth a daemon whose delight is in death and wretchedness? Begone! I am firm, and your words will only exasperate my rage.’
‘我犹豫不决的时刻已经过去，你的力量时代已经到来。你的威胁不能促使我做出邪恶的事；但它们坚定了我不让你成为恶习同伴的决心。我是否应该冷静地在地球上释放一个以死亡和不幸为乐的恶魔？走开！我很坚定，你的话只会激起我的愤怒。

The monster saw my determination in my face and gnashed his teeth in the impotence of anger. ‘Shall each man,’ cried he, ‘find a wife for his bosom, and each beast have his mate, and I be alone? I had feelings of affection, and they were requited by detestation and scorn. Man! You may hate, but beware! Your hours will pass in dread and misery, and soon the bolt will fall which must ravish from you your happiness forever. Are you to be happy while I grovel in the intensity of my wretchedness? You can blast my other passions, but revenge remains—revenge, henceforth dearer than light or food! I may die, but first you, my tyrant and tormentor, shall curse the sun that gazes on your misery. Beware, for I am fearless and therefore powerful. I will watch with the wiliness of a snake, that I may sting with its venom. Man, you shall repent of the injuries you inflict.’
怪物从我脸上看到了我的决心，愤怒无能，咬牙切齿。 “每个男人，”他喊道，“难道每个人都应该找到一个自己心爱的妻子，每个野兽都有自己的伴侣，而我却孤独一人吗？”我曾有过感情，但换来的是厌恶和蔑视。男人！你可能会讨厌，但要小心！你的时间将在恐惧和痛苦中度过，很快螺栓就会掉下来，这必定会永远夺走你的幸福。当我在极度不幸中卑躬屈膝时，你会感到高兴吗？你可以摧毁我的其他激情，但复仇依然存在——复仇，从此比光明或食物更珍贵！我可能会死，但首先你，我的暴君和折磨者，应该诅咒凝视你苦难的太阳。当心，因为我无所畏惧，因此也很强大。我会像蛇一样狡猾地观察，以便用它的毒液来蜇人。伙计，你应该为你所造成的伤害悔改。

‘Devil, cease; and do not poison the air with these sounds of malice. I have declared my resolution to you, and I am no coward to bend beneath words. Leave me; I am inexorable.’
‘魔鬼，停止吧；不要用这些恶意的声音来毒害空气。我已经向你宣布了我的决心，我并不是屈服于言语的懦夫。离开我；我是无情的。

‘It is well. I go; but remember, I shall be with you on your wedding-night.’
‘这样很好。我去;但请记住，新婚之夜我会和你在一起。”

I started forward and exclaimed, ‘Villain! Before you sign my death-warrant, be sure that you are yourself safe.’
我向前走去，大声喊道：‘恶棍！在你签署我的死刑令之前，请确保你自己的安全。

I would have seized him, but he eluded me and quitted the house with precipitation. In a few moments I saw him in his boat, which shot across the waters with an arrowy swiftness and was soon lost amidst the waves.
我本来想抓住他，但他却躲开了我，然后气冲冲地离开了家。过了一会儿，我看见他在船上，船像箭一样迅速地穿过水面，很快就消失在波浪中。

All was again silent, but his words rang in my ears. I burned with rage to pursue the murderer of my peace and precipitate him into the ocean. I walked up and down my room hastily and perturbed, while my imagination conjured up a thousand images to torment and sting me. Why had I not followed him and closed with him in mortal strife? But I had suffered him to depart, and he had directed his course towards the mainland. I shuddered to think who might be the next victim sacrificed to his insatiate revenge. And then I thought again of his words—‘*I will be with you on your wedding-night*.’ That, then, was the period fixed for the fulfillment of my destiny. In that hour I should die and at once satisfy and extinguish his malice. The prospect did not move me to fear; yet when I thought of my beloved Elizabeth, of her tears and endless sorrow, when she should find her lover so barbarously snatched from her, tears, the first I had shed for many months, streamed from my eyes, and I resolved not to fall before my enemy without a bitter struggle.
一切又归于寂静，但他的话却在我耳边响起。我怒火中烧，想要追捕破坏我和平的凶手，并把他扔进大海。我心慌意乱地在房间里走来走去，脑海里浮现出一千个画面来折磨我、刺痛我。我为什么不跟随他，与他进行殊死的斗争呢？但我允许他离开，而他则朝着大陆方向前进。一想到谁可能是他贪得无厌的复仇中牺牲的下一个受害者，我就不寒而栗。然后我又想起了他的话——“*我会在你的新婚之夜和你在一起*。”那么，那就是我命运的预定时期。到那时我就会死去，立刻满足并消除他的恶意。这种前景并没有让我感到恐惧；相反，我感到恐惧。然而，当我想到我心爱的伊丽莎白，想到她的泪水和无尽的悲伤，当她发现她的爱人被如此野蛮地从她身边夺走时，我几个月来第一滴眼泪就从我的眼中流了下来，我决心不倒下。在我的敌人面前，没有经过艰苦的斗争。

The night passed away, and the sun rose from the ocean; my feelings became calmer, if it may be called calmness when the violence of rage sinks into the depths of despair. I left the house, the horrid scene of the last night’s contention, and walked on the beach of the sea, which I almost regarded as an insuperable barrier between me and my fellow creatures; nay, a wish that such should prove the fact stole across me. I desired that I might pass my life on that barren rock, wearily, it is true, but uninterrupted by any sudden shock of misery. If I returned, it was to be sacrificed or to see those whom I most loved die under the grasp of a daemon whom I had myself created.
夜晚过去了，太阳从海面升起；当愤怒的暴力陷入绝望的深渊时，我的心情变得平静，如果这可以称为平静的话。我离开了房子，离开了昨晚争吵的可怕场景，走在海滩上，我几乎把它视为我和我的同胞之间不可逾越的障碍；不仅如此，我还希望这样的事实能证明这一点。我希望我能在那块贫瘠的岩石上度过我的一生，确实很疲惫，但不受任何突然的痛苦冲击的干扰。如果我回来，我就会被牺牲，或者看到我最爱的人死在我亲手创造的恶魔的掌握之下。

I walked about the isle like a restless spectre, separated from all it loved and miserable in the separation. When it became noon, and the sun rose higher, I lay down on the grass and was overpowered by a deep sleep. I had been awake the whole of the preceding night, my nerves were agitated, and my eyes inflamed by watching and misery. The sleep into which I now sank refreshed me; and when I awoke, I again felt as if I belonged to a race of human beings like myself, and I began to reflect upon what had passed with greater composure; yet still the words of the fiend rang in my ears like a death-knell; they appeared like a dream, yet distinct and oppressive as a reality.
我像一个焦躁不安的幽灵一样在岛上走来走去，与它所爱的一切分离，在分离中感到痛苦。到了中午，太阳升得更高了，我躺在草地上，沉沉地睡着了。前一天晚上我彻夜未眠，我的神经很激动，我的眼睛因注视和痛苦而发炎。我现在陷入的睡眠使我精神焕发。当我醒来时，我再次感到自己好像属于像我一样的人类，我开始更加冷静地反思所发生的事情；但恶魔的话仍然像丧钟一样在我耳边响起。它们看起来像一场梦，但又像现实一样清晰而压抑。

The sun had far descended, and I still sat on the shore, satisfying my appetite, which had become ravenous, with an oaten cake, when I saw a fishing-boat land close to me, and one of the men brought me a packet; it contained letters from Geneva, and one from Clerval entreating me to join him. He said that he was wearing away his time fruitlessly where he was, that letters from the friends he had formed in London desired his return to complete the negotiation they had entered into for his Indian enterprise. He could not any longer delay his departure; but as his journey to London might be followed, even sooner than he now conjectured, by his longer voyage, he entreated me to bestow as much of my society on him as I could spare. He besought me, therefore, to leave my solitary isle and to meet him at Perth, that we might proceed southwards together. This letter in a degree recalled me to life, and I determined to quit my island at the expiration of two days.
太阳已经落得很远了，我仍然坐在岸边，用一块燕麦饼来满足我已经变得饥肠辘辘的胃口，这时我看到一艘渔船在我附近靠岸，其中一个人给我带来了一个包裹；里面有来自日内瓦的信，还有一封来自克莱瓦尔的恳求我和他一起去的信。他说，他在那里浪费了自己的时间，毫无结果，他在伦敦结识的朋友们写信希望他回来，完成他们为他的印度企业进行的谈判。他不能再拖延出发的时间了。但由于他前往伦敦的旅程可能会比他现在推测的更早，他会进行更长的航行，因此他恳求我尽可能多地与他交往。因此，他恳求我离开我的孤岛，到珀斯与他会面，这样我们就可以一起南下。这封信在某种程度上让我想起了生活，我决定在两天后离开我的岛屿。

Yet, before I departed, there was a task to perform, on which I shuddered to reflect; I must pack up my chemical instruments, and for that purpose I must enter the room which had been the scene of my odious work, and I must handle those utensils the sight of which was sickening to me. The next morning, at daybreak, I summoned sufficient courage and unlocked the door of my laboratory. The remains of the half-finished creature, whom I had destroyed, lay scattered on the floor, and I almost felt as if I had mangled the living flesh of a human being. I paused to collect myself and then entered the chamber. With trembling hand I conveyed the instruments out of the room, but I reflected that I ought not to leave the relics of my work to excite the horror and suspicion of the peasants; and I accordingly put them into a basket, with a great quantity of stones, and laying them up, determined to throw them into the sea that very night; and in the meantime I sat upon the beach, employed in cleaning and arranging my chemical apparatus.
然而，在我离开之前，还有一项任务要执行，一想到这个任务我就感到不寒而栗；我必须收拾好我的化学仪器，为此我必须进入曾经是我可憎工作现场的房间，我必须处理那些令我感到恶心的器具。第二天一早，天一亮，我鼓足勇气，打开了实验室的门。被我摧毁的半成品生物的残骸散落在地板上，我几乎感觉自己好像撕碎了一个人的活生生的肉体。我停下来冷静一下，然后进入了房间。我用颤抖的手把仪器搬出了房间，但我想，我不应该留下我工作的遗迹，以免激起农民的恐惧和怀疑；于是我把它们装进一个篮子里，里面装着大量的石头，堆起来，决定连夜就扔进海里。与此同时，我坐在海滩上，负责清洁和整理我的化学设备。

Nothing could be more complete than the alteration that had taken place in my feelings since the night of the appearance of the daemon. I had before regarded my promise with a gloomy despair as a thing that, with whatever consequences, must be fulfilled; but I now felt as if a film had been taken from before my eyes and that I for the first time saw clearly. The idea of renewing my labours did not for one instant occur to me; the threat I had heard weighed on my thoughts, but I did not reflect that a voluntary act of mine could avert it. I had resolved in my own mind that to create another like the fiend I had first made would be an act of the basest and most atrocious selfishness, and I banished from my mind every thought that could lead to a different conclusion.
自从恶魔出现的那天晚上以来，没有什么比我的感情所发生的变化更彻底的了。以前，我曾怀着一种悲观绝望的心情，认为我的诺言是一件无论后果如何都必须兑现的事情。但现在我感觉好像从我眼前拍摄了一部胶片，我第一次清楚地看到了它。我一瞬间没有想到要重新开始工作。我听到的威胁沉重地压在我的心头，但我并没有想到我的自愿行为可以避免它。我在心里下定决心，再创造一个像我最初创造的恶魔一样的人，将是一种最卑鄙、最残暴的自私行为，我从脑海中排除了所有可能导致不同结论的想法。

Between two and three in the morning the moon rose; and I then, putting my basket aboard a little skiff, sailed out about four miles from the shore. The scene was perfectly solitary; a few boats were returning towards land, but I sailed away from them. I felt as if I was about the commission of a dreadful crime and avoided with shuddering anxiety any encounter with my fellow creatures. At one time the moon, which had before been clear, was suddenly overspread by a thick cloud, and I took advantage of the moment of darkness and cast my basket into the sea; I listened to the gurgling sound as it sank and then sailed away from the spot. The sky became clouded, but the air was pure, although chilled by the northeast breeze that was then rising. But it refreshed me and filled me with such agreeable sensations that I resolved to prolong my stay on the water, and fixing the rudder in a direct position, stretched myself at the bottom of the boat. Clouds hid the moon, everything was obscure, and I heard only the sound of the boat as its keel cut through the waves; the murmur lulled me, and in a short time I slept soundly.
凌晨两三点之间，月亮升起来了。然后，我把篮子放在一艘小船上，驶离海岸约四英里。场面十分孤独。几艘船正在返回陆地，但我却远离了它们。我感觉自己好像要犯下可怕的罪行，并带着战栗的焦虑避免与我的同胞发生任何接触。有一次，本来还很晴朗的月亮突然被厚厚的云遮住了，我趁着天黑的时候，把篮子扔进了海里。我听着它下沉时发出的汩汩声，然后驶离了现场。天空乌云密布，但空气却很纯净，虽然东北风吹得很冷。但它让我精神焕发，让我充满了如此愉快的感觉，我决定延长在水面上的停留时间，并将舵固定在直接位置，在船底伸展身体。云遮月，一切朦胧，只听见船龙骨破浪的声音；呢喃声使我平静下来，不一会儿我就睡熟了。

I do not know how long I remained in this situation, but when I awoke I found that the sun had already mounted considerably. The wind was high, and the waves continually threatened the safety of my little skiff. I found that the wind was northeast and must have driven me far from the coast from which I had embarked. I endeavoured to change my course but quickly found that if I again made the attempt the boat would be instantly filled with water. Thus situated, my only resource was to drive before the wind. I confess that I felt a few sensations of terror. I had no compass with me and was so slenderly acquainted with the geography of this part of the world that the sun was of little benefit to me. I might be driven into the wide Atlantic and feel all the tortures of starvation or be swallowed up in the immeasurable waters that roared and buffeted around me. I had already been out many hours and felt the torment of a burning thirst, a prelude to my other sufferings. I looked on the heavens, which were covered by clouds that flew before the wind, only to be replaced by others; I looked upon the sea; it was to be my grave. ‘Fiend,’ I exclaimed, ‘your task is already fulfilled!’ I thought of Elizabeth, of my father, and of Clerval—all left behind, on whom the monster might satisfy his sanguinary and merciless passions. This idea plunged me into a reverie so despairing and frightful that even now, when the scene is on the point of closing before me forever, I shudder to reflect on it.
我不知道这样的状态持续了多久，当我醒来时，我发现太阳已经升得很高了。风很大，海浪不断威胁着我小船的安全。我发现风是东北风，肯定把我吹离了出发的海岸很远。我试图改变航向，但很快发现，如果我再次尝试，船会立即充满水。在这种情况下，我唯一的办法就是顺风行驶。我承认我感到了一些恐惧。我没有带指南针，而且对这个地区的地理知之甚少，以至于太阳对我来说没有什么好处。我可能会被赶进宽阔的大西洋，感受饥饿的折磨，或者被在我周围咆哮和拍打的无边海水吞没。我已经出去好几个小时了，感到口渴的折磨，这是我其他痛苦的前奏。我望着天空，被风前飞过的云彩遮住，又被其他云彩所取代；我眺望大海；那是我的坟墓。 “恶魔，”我喊道，“你的任务已经完成了！”我想到了伊丽莎白、我的父亲和克莱瓦尔——他们都被抛在了身后，怪物可以在他们身上满足他的血腥和无情的激情。这个念头让我陷入了如此绝望和可怕的遐想，即使是现在，当那一幕即将永远在我面前结束时，我一想起它就感到不寒而栗。

Some hours passed thus; but by degrees, as the sun declined towards the horizon, the wind died away into a gentle breeze and the sea became free from breakers. But these gave place to a heavy swell; I felt sick and hardly able to hold the rudder, when suddenly I saw a line of high land towards the south.
几个小时就这样过去了。但渐渐地，随着太阳落向地平线，风渐渐消失，变成微风，大海也不再有波浪。但这些都被汹涌的浪潮所取代。我感到恶心，几乎无法握舵，突然看到南边有一条高地。

Almost spent, as I was, by fatigue and the dreadful suspense I endured for several hours, this sudden certainty of life rushed like a flood of warm joy to my heart, and tears gushed from my eyes.
几个小时以来，我几乎因疲劳和可怕的悬念而筋疲力尽，这种突然的生活确定性像一股温暖的喜悦涌上我的心，泪水从我的眼中涌出。

How mutable are our feelings, and how strange is that clinging love we have of life even in the excess of misery! I constructed another sail with a part of my dress and eagerly steered my course towards the land. It had a wild and rocky appearance, but as I approached nearer I easily perceived the traces of cultivation. I saw vessels near the shore and found myself suddenly transported back to the neighbourhood of civilized man. I carefully traced the windings of the land and hailed a steeple which I at length saw issuing from behind a small promontory. As I was in a state of extreme debility, I resolved to sail directly towards the town, as a place where I could most easily procure nourishment. Fortunately I had money with me. As I turned the promontory I perceived a small neat town and a good harbour, which I entered, my heart bounding with joy at my unexpected escape.
我们的感情是多么善变，即使在极度痛苦的情况下，我们对生活的执着之爱是多么奇怪！我用衣服的一部分搭建了另一张帆，急切地驾驶着航线驶向陆地。它看起来很荒凉，岩石多，但当我走近时，我很容易发现耕种的痕迹。我看到岸边有船只，发现自己突然回到了文明人的社区。我小心翼翼地沿着蜿蜒的土地走去，最后看到一座尖塔从一个小海角后面伸出来。由于身体极度虚弱，我决定直接航行到城镇，因为那里是我最容易获取营养的地方。幸运的是我身上有钱。当我转过海角时，我看到了一座整洁的小镇和一个良好的港口，我进入了那里，为我意外的逃脱而感到高兴。

As I was occupied in fixing the boat and arranging the sails, several people crowded towards the spot. They seemed much surprised at my appearance, but instead of offering me any assistance, whispered together with gestures that at any other time might have produced in me a slight sensation of alarm. As it was, I merely remarked that they spoke English, and I therefore addressed them in that language. ‘My good friends,’ said I, ‘will you be so kind as to tell me the name of this town and inform me where I am?’
当我正忙着修船、布置船帆时，几个人向现场涌了过来。他们似乎对我的出现感到非常惊讶，但并没有向我提供任何帮助，而是用手势低声交谈，这些手势在其他时候可能会让我产生轻微的惊慌感。事实上，我只是说他们说英语，因此我用英语对他们讲话。 “我的好朋友们，”我说道，“请您告诉我这个城镇的名字，并告诉我我在哪里？”

‘You will know that soon enough,’ replied a man with a hoarse voice. ‘Maybe you are come to a place that will not prove much to your taste, but you will not be consulted as to your quarters, I promise you.’
“你很快就会知道的。”一个男人用沙哑的声音回答道。 “也许你来到的地方不太符合你的口味，但我向你保证，不会有人就你的住宿问题征求你的意见。”

I was exceedingly surprised on receiving so rude an answer from a stranger, and I was also disconcerted on perceiving the frowning and angry countenances of his companions. ‘Why do you answer me so roughly?’ I replied. ‘Surely it is not the custom of Englishmen to receive strangers so inhospitably.’
我对一个陌生人如此粗鲁的回答感到非常惊讶，也对看到他的同伴皱着眉头和愤怒的表情感到不安。 “你为什么这么粗鲁地回答我？”我回答道。 “如此不友善地接待陌生人当然不是英国人的习惯。”

‘I do not know,’ said the man, ‘what the custom of the English may be, but it is the custom of the Irish to hate villains.’
“我不知道英国人的习俗是什么，”那人说，“但爱尔兰人的习俗是憎恨坏人。”

While this strange dialogue continued, I perceived the crowd rapidly increase. Their faces expressed a mixture of curiosity and anger, which annoyed and in some degree alarmed me. I inquired the way to the inn, but no one replied. I then moved forward, and a murmuring sound arose from the crowd as they followed and surrounded me, when an ill-looking man approaching tapped me on the shoulder and said, ‘Come, sir, you must follow me to Mr. Kirwin’s to give an account of yourself.’
当这种奇怪的对话继续进行时，我发现人群在迅速增加。他们的表情混合着好奇和愤怒，这让我恼火，在某种程度上也让我感到震惊。我询问去客栈的路，却没有人回答。然后我向前走去，人群中发出一阵窃窃私语的声音，他们尾随并包围了我，这时一个相貌丑陋的男人走过来，拍拍我的肩膀说：“来吧，先生，你必须跟我去柯文先生那里给我钱。”你自己的账户。

‘Who is Mr. Kirwin? Why am I to give an account of myself? Is not this a free country?’
‘柯文先生是谁？我为什么要向自己交代？这不是一个自由的国家吗？

‘Ay, sir, free enough for honest folks. Mr. Kirwin is a magistrate, and you are to give an account of the death of a gentleman who was found murdered here last night.’
“哎呀，先生，对于诚实的人来说已经足够自由了。柯文先生是一名地方法官，你要报告一名昨晚被发现在这里被谋杀的绅士的死亡情况。

This answer startled me, but I presently recovered myself. I was innocent; that could easily be proved; accordingly I followed my conductor in silence and was led to one of the best houses in the town. I was ready to sink from fatigue and hunger, but being surrounded by a crowd, I thought it politic to rouse all my strength, that no physical debility might be construed into apprehension or conscious guilt. Little did I then expect the calamity that was in a few moments to overwhelm me and extinguish in horror and despair all fear of ignominy or death.
这个答案让我吃了一惊，但很快我就回过神来。我是无辜的；这很容易被证明；因此，我默默地跟着导游，被带到了镇上最好的房子之一。我已经准备好因疲劳和饥饿而倒下，但被人群包围，我认为激发我所有的力量是明智的，这样身体的虚弱就不会被解释为忧虑或有意识的内疚。我没想到灾难很快就会压倒我，并在恐惧和绝望中消除我对耻辱或死亡的所有恐惧。

I must pause here, for it requires all my fortitude to recall the memory of the frightful events which I am about to relate, in proper detail, to my recollection.
我必须在此暂停，因为这需要我全部的毅力来回忆起我即将将这些可怕事件详细地与我的回忆联系起来的记忆。

Chapter 21
第21章

I was soon introduced into the presence of the magistrate, an old benevolent man with calm and mild manners. He looked upon me, however, with some degree of severity, and then, turning towards my conductors, he asked who appeared as witnesses on this occasion.
很快我就被介绍到了县长面前，他是一位仁慈的老人，态度平静而温和。然而，他以某种程度的严厉看着我，然后转向我的指挥，询问这次有谁作为证人出现。

About half a dozen men came forward; and, one being selected by the magistrate, he deposed that he had been out fishing the night before with his son and brother-in-law, Daniel Nugent, when, about ten o’clock, they observed a strong northerly blast rising, and they accordingly put in for port. It was a very dark night, as the moon had not yet risen; they did not land at the harbour, but, as they had been accustomed, at a creek about two miles below. He walked on first, carrying a part of the fishing tackle, and his companions followed him at some distance. As he was proceeding along the sands, he struck his foot against something and fell at his length on the ground. His companions came up to assist him, and by the light of their lantern they found that he had fallen on the body of a man, who was to all appearance dead. Their first supposition was that it was the corpse of some person who had been drowned and was thrown on shore by the waves, but on examination they found that the clothes were not wet and even that the body was not then cold. They instantly carried it to the cottage of an old woman near the spot and endeavoured, but in vain, to restore it to life. It appeared to be a handsome young man, about five and twenty years of age. He had apparently been strangled, for there was no sign of any violence except the black mark of fingers on his neck.
大约有六名男子走上前来。一位由地方法官选定的人，他声称前一天晚上他和他的儿子和妹夫丹尼尔·纽金特一起出去钓鱼，当时大约十点钟，他们观察到一股强烈的北风升起，并且他们相应地驶入港口。那是一个非常漆黑的夜晚，月亮还没有升起。他们没有在港口登陆，而是按照惯例在下方约两英里的一条小溪登陆。他提着一部分渔具在前面走，同伴们在远处跟在他后面。当他沿着沙滩前进时，他的脚撞到了某个东西，然后摔倒在地。他的同伴们过来扶他，借着灯笼的光，他们发现他倒在一个男人的身上，看上去已经死了。他们最初的猜测是，这是一个被海浪淹死的人的尸体，被海浪抛上岸，但检查后发现，衣服并没有湿，甚至尸体当时也不冷。他们立即将其带到现场附近一位老妇人的小屋，并试图使其恢复活力，但徒劳无功。那是一个英俊的青年，大约五二十岁的样子。他显然是被勒死的，因为除了脖子上有黑色的手指痕迹外，没有任何暴力的迹象。

The first part of this deposition did not in the least interest me, but when the mark of the fingers was mentioned I remembered the murder of my brother and felt myself extremely agitated; my limbs trembled, and a mist came over my eyes, which obliged me to lean on a chair for support. The magistrate observed me with a keen eye and of course drew an unfavourable augury from my manner.
这份证词的第一部分我一点也不感兴趣，但是当提到手指的痕迹时，我想起了我兄弟被谋杀的事情，感到非常激动；我的四肢在颤抖，眼睛里蒙上了一层雾气，我不得不靠在椅子上支撑。县令用敏锐的目光观察着我，当然从我的举止中得出了不利的预兆。

The son confirmed his father’s account, but when Daniel Nugent was called he swore positively that just before the fall of his companion, he saw a boat, with a single man in it, at a short distance from the shore; and as far as he could judge by the light of a few stars, it was the same boat in which I had just landed.
儿子证实了父亲的说法，但当丹尼尔·纽金特被叫到时，他郑重地发誓，就在他的同伴倒下之前，他看到一艘船，船上只有一个人，距离海岸不远；据他根据几颗星星的光芒判断，这就是我刚刚登陆的同一艘船。

A woman deposed that she lived near the beach and was standing at the door of her cottage, waiting for the return of the fishermen, about an hour before she heard of the discovery of the body, when she saw a boat with only one man in it push off from that part of the shore where the corpse was afterwards found.
一名妇女称，她住在海滩附近，当时她正站在小屋门口等待渔民回来，大约一个小时后，她听到尸体被发现的消息，当时她看到一艘船上只有一个男人。它从后来发现尸体的那部分海岸出发。

Another woman confirmed the account of the fishermen having brought the body into her house; it was not cold. They put it into a bed and rubbed it, and Daniel went to the town for an apothecary, but life was quite gone.
另一位妇女证实了渔民将尸体带进她家的说法。天气不冷。他们把它放在床上揉搓，丹尼尔去镇上找药剂师，但生命已经消失了。

Several other men were examined concerning my landing, and they agreed that, with the strong north wind that had arisen during the night, it was very probable that I had beaten about for many hours and had been obliged to return nearly to the same spot from which I had departed. Besides, they observed that it appeared that I had brought the body from another place, and it was likely that as I did not appear to know the shore, I might have put into the harbour ignorant of the distance of the town of—— from the place where I had deposited the corpse.
其他几个人也接受了关于我着陆的询问，他们一致认为，由于夜间刮起了强烈的北风，我很可能已经折腾了好几个小时，不得不从几乎同一地点返回。我已经离开了。此外，他们观察到我似乎是从另一个地方带来尸体的，而且很可能，由于我似乎不知道海岸，我可能在不知道距离——镇的距离的情况下将尸体放入港口。我放置尸体的地方。

Mr. Kirwin, on hearing this evidence, desired that I should be taken into the room where the body lay for interment, that it might be observed what effect the sight of it would produce upon me. This idea was probably suggested by the extreme agitation I had exhibited when the mode of the murder had been described. I was accordingly conducted, by the magistrate and several other persons, to the inn. I could not help being struck by the strange coincidences that had taken place during this eventful night; but, knowing that I had been conversing with several persons in the island I had inhabited about the time that the body had been found, I was perfectly tranquil as to the consequences of the affair.
柯文先生听到这一证据后，希望将我带入埋葬尸体的房间，​​以便观察看到它会对我产生什么影响。当我描述谋杀的方式时，我表现出的极度激动可能暗示了这个想法。于是，县令和其他几个人就把我带到了客栈。我不禁为这个多事之夜所发生的奇怪巧合感到震惊。但是，由于知道尸体被发现时我一直在与我居住的岛上的几个人交谈，因此我对这件事的后果非常平静。

I entered the room where the corpse lay and was led up to the coffin. How can I describe my sensations on beholding it? I feel yet parched with horror, nor can I reflect on that terrible moment without shuddering and agony. The examination, the presence of the magistrate and witnesses, passed like a dream from my memory when I saw the lifeless form of Henry Clerval stretched before me. I gasped for breath, and throwing myself on the body, I exclaimed, ‘Have my murderous machinations deprived you also, my dearest Henry, of life? Two I have already destroyed; other victims await their destiny; but you, Clerval, my friend, my benefactor—‘
我进入了尸体所在的房间，并被带到了棺材旁。我该如何描述我看到它时的感受呢？我感到恐惧而口干舌燥，回想那可怕的时刻，我也无法不颤抖和痛苦。当我看到亨利·克莱瓦尔毫无生气的身影伸展在我面前时，审讯、法官和证人的在场就像一场梦一样从我的记忆中过去了。我喘着粗气，扑倒在尸体上，大声喊道：“我最亲爱的亨利，我的杀人阴谋是否也剥夺了你的生命？”两个我已经毁掉了；其他受害者等待着他们的命运；但是你，克莱瓦尔，我的朋友，我的恩人——”

The human frame could no longer support the agonies that I endured, and I was carried out of the room in strong convulsions.
人体已经无法承受我所承受的痛苦，我在剧烈的抽搐中被抬出了房间。

A fever succeeded to this. I lay for two months on the point of death; my ravings, as I afterwards heard, were frightful; I called myself the murderer of William, of Justine, and of Clerval. Sometimes I entreated my attendants to assist me in the destruction of the fiend by whom I was tormented; and at others I felt the fingers of the monster already grasping my neck, and screamed aloud with agony and terror. Fortunately, as I spoke my native language, Mr. Kirwin alone understood me; but my gestures and bitter cries were sufficient to affright the other witnesses.
发烧成功了。我在死亡线上躺了两个月；后来我听说，我的胡言乱语非常可怕。我称自己是杀害威廉、贾斯汀和克莱瓦尔的凶手。有时，我恳求侍从们协助我消灭折磨我的恶魔。有时我感觉怪物的手指已经抓住了我的脖子，我因痛苦和恐惧而大声尖叫。幸运的是，当我说的是我的母语时，只有柯文先生能听懂我的话。但我的手势和痛苦的哭声足以吓坏其他目击者。

Why did I not die? More miserable than man ever was before, why did I not sink into forgetfulness and rest? Death snatches away many blooming children, the only hopes of their doting parents; how many brides and youthful lovers have been one day in the bloom of health and hope, and the next a prey for worms and the decay of the tomb! Of what materials was I made that I could thus resist so many shocks, which, like the turning of the wheel, continually renewed the torture?
我为什么没有死？比人类更悲惨，为什么我不沉入忘却和安息之中？死亡夺走了许多正值青春年华的孩子，这是他们溺爱的父母唯一的希望；有多少新娘和年轻的恋人有一天在健康和希望中绽放，第二天却成为蠕虫的猎物和坟墓的腐烂！我是用什么材料制成的，能够抵抗如此多的冲击，这些冲击就像车轮的转动一样，不断地更新折磨？

But I was doomed to live and in two months found myself as awaking from a dream, in a prison, stretched on a wretched bed, surrounded by jailers, turnkeys, bolts, and all the miserable apparatus of a dungeon. It was morning, I remember, when I thus awoke to understanding; I had forgotten the particulars of what had happened and only felt as if some great misfortune had suddenly overwhelmed me; but when I looked around and saw the barred windows and the squalidness of the room in which I was, all flashed across my memory and I groaned bitterly.
但我注定要活下去，两个月后，我发现自己从梦中醒来，在监狱里，躺在一张破床上，周围都是狱卒、看守、螺栓和地牢里所有悲惨的设备。我记得，那是早上，当我醒来时，我明白了。我已经忘记了具体的事情，只觉得突然间有什么大不幸降临到了我的身上。但当我环顾四周，看到那扇铁栅栏的窗户和我所处的肮脏房间时，一切都在我的记忆中闪过，我痛苦地呻吟着。

This sound disturbed an old woman who was sleeping in a chair beside me. She was a hired nurse, the wife of one of the turnkeys, and her countenance expressed all those bad qualities which often characterize that class. The lines of her face were hard and rude, like that of persons accustomed to see without sympathizing in sights of misery. Her tone expressed her entire indifference; she addressed me in English, and the voice struck me as one that I had heard during my sufferings. ‘Are you better now, sir?’ said she.
这声音打扰了一位睡在我旁边椅子上的老妇人。她是一名雇佣护士，是一位看守的妻子，她的表情表现出了这个阶级通常具有的所有不良品质。她脸上的线条冷酷而粗鲁，就像那些习惯于看到苦难而没有同情心的人一样。她的语气表现出她完全的冷漠。她用英语对我说话，我觉得那声音就像我在受苦时听到的那样。 “你现在好点了吗，先生？”她说。

I replied in the same language, with a feeble voice, ‘I believe I am; but if it be all true, if indeed I did not dream, I am sorry that I am still alive to feel this misery and horror.’
我用同样的语言，用微弱的声音回答：“我相信我是；”但如果这一切都是真的，如果我确实没有做梦，我很遗憾我还活着，感受到这种痛苦和恐怖。”

‘For that matter,’ replied the old woman, ‘if you mean about the gentleman you murdered, I believe that it were better for you if you were dead, for I fancy it will go hard with you! However, that’s none of my business; I am sent to nurse you and get you well; I do my duty with a safe conscience; it were well if everybody did the same.’
“就此而言，”老妇人回答道，“如果你指的是你谋杀的那位先生，我相信你死了对你来说更好，因为我想你会很难受！”不过，这不关我的事。我被派来护理你并让你康复；我凭良心履行职责；如果每个人都这样做就好了。

I turned with loathing from the woman who could utter so unfeeling a speech to a person just saved, on the very edge of death; but I felt languid and unable to reflect on all that had passed. The whole series of my life appeared to me as a dream; I sometimes doubted if indeed it were all true, for it never presented itself to my mind with the force of reality.
我厌恶地转身离​​开这个女人，她竟然对一个刚刚得救、濒临死亡的人说出如此无情的话。但我感到无精打采，无法反思已经发生的一切。我的一生对我来说就像一场梦；有时我怀疑这是否都是真的，因为它从未以现实的力量呈现在我的脑海中。

As the images that floated before me became more distinct, I grew feverish; a darkness pressed around me; no one was near me who soothed me with the gentle voice of love; no dear hand supported me. The physician came and prescribed medicines, and the old woman prepared them for me; but utter carelessness was visible in the first, and the expression of brutality was strongly marked in the visage of the second. Who could be interested in the fate of a murderer but the hangman who would gain his fee?
当浮现在我面前的影像变得更加清晰时，我开始发烧；黑暗笼罩着我；没有人在我身边用温柔的、充满爱的声音来安慰我；没有亲爱的手支持我。医生来了，开了药，老太婆给我备好了。但前者表现出完全的粗心大意，而后者的表情则表现出强烈的残暴。除了能获得报酬的刽子手之外，谁会对杀人犯的命运感兴趣呢？

These were my first reflections, but I soon learned that Mr. Kirwin had shown me extreme kindness. He had caused the best room in the prison to be prepared for me (wretched indeed was the best); and it was he who had provided a physician and a nurse. It is true, he seldom came to see me, for although he ardently desired to relieve the sufferings of every human creature, he did not wish to be present at the agonies and miserable ravings of a murderer. He came, therefore, sometimes to see that I was not neglected, but his visits were short and with long intervals.
这是我的第一反应，但我很快了解到柯文先生对我表现出了极大的友善。他为我准备了监狱里最好的房间（简陋的确实是最好的）。正是他提供了一名医生和一名护士。确实，他很少来看我，因为虽然他热切地希望减轻每个人的痛苦，但他不愿意目睹一个杀人犯的痛苦和悲惨的胡言乱语。因此，他有时会来看看我没有被忽视，但他的来访时间很短，而且间隔时间很长。

One day, while I was gradually recovering, I was seated in a chair, my eyes half open and my cheeks livid like those in death. I was overcome by gloom and misery and often reflected I had better seek death than desire to remain in a world which to me was replete with wretchedness. At one time I considered whether I should not declare myself guilty and suffer the penalty of the law, less innocent than poor Justine had been. Such were my thoughts when the door of my apartment was opened and Mr. Kirwin entered. His countenance expressed sympathy and compassion; he drew a chair close to mine and addressed me in French, ‘I fear that this place is very shocking to you; can I do anything to make you more comfortable?’
有一天，当我的身体逐渐康复时，我坐在椅子上，眼睛半睁着，脸颊铁青，就像死人一样。我被忧郁和痛苦所征服，常常想到，我最好寻求死亡，而不是留在一个对我来说充满悲惨的世界。有一次，我考虑是否应该宣告自己有罪并接受法律的惩罚，不像可怜的贾斯汀那么无辜。当我的公寓门打开、柯文先生走进来时，我就是这么想的。他的脸上流露出同情和怜悯；他拉了一把椅子靠近我，用法语对我说：“我担心这个地方会让你感到非常震惊；”我能做点什么让你更舒服吗？

‘I thank you, but all that you mention is nothing to me; on the whole earth there is no comfort which I am capable of receiving.’
“我谢谢你，但你所说的一切对我来说都无关紧要；在整个地球上，我无法得到任何安慰。

‘I know that the sympathy of a stranger can be but of little relief to one borne down as you are by so strange a misfortune. But you will, I hope, soon quit this melancholy abode, for doubtless evidence can easily be brought to free you from the criminal charge.’
“我知道，对于像你这样遭受如此奇怪的不幸的人来说，陌生人的同情并不能带来多少安慰。但我希望你很快就会离开这个忧郁的住所，因为毫无疑问可以很容易地找到证据来使你免于刑事指控。

‘That is my least concern; I am, by a course of strange events, become the most miserable of mortals. Persecuted and tortured as I am and have been, can death be any evil to me?’
“这是我最不关心的；由于一系列奇怪的事件，我成为了凡人中最悲惨的一个。尽管我现在和过去都受到迫害和折磨，死亡对我来说还能有什么邪恶吗？

‘Nothing indeed could be more unfortunate and agonizing than the strange chances that have lately occurred. You were thrown, by some surprising accident, on this shore, renowned for its hospitality, seized immediately, and charged with murder. The first sight that was presented to your eyes was the body of your friend, murdered in so unaccountable a manner and placed, as it were, by some fiend across your path.’
“确实没有什么比最近发生的奇怪的机会更不幸和更痛苦的了。由于某种令人惊讶的意外，你被抛到了这个以热情好客而闻名的海岸上，你立即被抓获，并被指控犯有谋杀罪。你首先看到的是你朋友的尸体，他以如此不负责任的方式被谋杀，并被某个恶魔放在你的路上。

As Mr. Kirwin said this, notwithstanding the agitation I endured on this retrospect of my sufferings, I also felt considerable surprise at the knowledge he seemed to possess concerning me. I suppose some astonishment was exhibited in my countenance, for Mr. Kirwin hastened to say, ‘Immediately upon your being taken ill, all the papers that were on your person were brought me, and I examined them that I might discover some trace by which I could send to your relations an account of your misfortune and illness. I found several letters, and, among others, one which I discovered from its commencement to be from your father. I instantly wrote to Geneva; nearly two months have elapsed since the departure of my letter. But you are ill; even now you tremble; you are unfit for agitation of any kind.’
当柯文先生说这番话时，尽管我在回顾自己的痛苦时感到不安，但我也对他似乎对我的了解感到相当惊讶。我想我的脸上露出了某种惊讶的表情，因为柯文先生赶紧说道：“你一生病，你身上的所有文件都被拿来给我了，我检查了它们，以便能发现一些痕迹，我可以向你的亲戚寄一份关于你的不幸和疾病的报告。我发现了几封信，其中一封是我从信一开始就发现是你父亲写来的。我立即写信给日内瓦；自从我的信寄出以来，已经过去了近两个月了。但你病了；甚至现在你还在颤抖；你不适合任何形式的激动。

‘This suspense is a thousand times worse than the most horrible event; tell me what new scene of death has been acted, and whose murder I am now to lament?’
‘这个悬念比最可怕的事件还要糟糕一千倍；告诉我发生了什么新的死亡场景，我现在要哀悼谁的谋杀？

‘Your family is perfectly well,’ said Mr. Kirwin with gentleness; ‘and someone, a friend, is come to visit you.’
“你的家人都很好，”柯文先生温柔地说。 “有人，一位朋友，来看望你。”

I know not by what chain of thought the idea presented itself, but it instantly darted into my mind that the murderer had come to mock at my misery and taunt me with the death of Clerval, as a new incitement for me to comply with his hellish desires. I put my hand before my eyes, and cried out in agony, ‘Oh! Take him away! I cannot see him; for God’s sake, do not let him enter!’
我不知道这个想法是通过什么思路出现的，但我的脑海里立刻闪过一个念头：凶手是来嘲笑我的痛苦，并用克莱瓦尔的死来嘲笑我，以此作为新的煽动我服从他的地狱般的行为。欲望。我把手放在眼前，痛苦地叫道：“噢！把他带走！我看不见他；看在上帝的份上，别让他进来！”

Mr. Kirwin regarded me with a troubled countenance. He could not help regarding my exclamation as a presumption of my guilt and said in rather a severe tone, ‘I should have thought, young man, that the presence of your father would have been welcome instead of inspiring such violent repugnance.’
柯文先生一脸困惑地看着我。他不禁将我的惊呼视为我有罪的推定，并以相当严厉的语气说道：“年轻人，我本以为你父亲的出现会受到欢迎，而不是激起如此强烈的反感。”

‘My father!’ cried I, while every feature and every muscle was relaxed from anguish to pleasure. ‘Is my father indeed come? How kind, how very kind! But where is he, why does he not hasten to me?’
“我的父亲！”我喊道，同时每一个特征和每一块肌肉都从痛苦变为快乐。 ‘我父亲真的来了吗？多么亲切，多么亲切啊！但他在哪里，为什么不赶紧来找我？

My change of manner surprised and pleased the magistrate; perhaps he thought that my former exclamation was a momentary return of delirium, and now he instantly resumed his former benevolence. He rose and quitted the room with my nurse, and in a moment my father entered it.
我态度的改变让治安法官既惊讶又高兴。也许他以为我刚才的惊呼只是一时的谵妄，现在他立刻又恢复了以前的仁慈。他起身和我的护士一起离开了房间，一会儿我父亲就进来了。

Nothing, at this moment, could have given me greater pleasure than the arrival of my father. I stretched out my hand to him and cried, ‘Are you, then, safe—and Elizabeth—and Ernest?’
此时此刻，没有什么比父亲的到来更让我高兴的了。我向他伸出手，喊道：“那么，你——还有伊丽莎白——还有欧内斯特，安全吗？”

My father calmed me with assurances of their welfare and endeavoured, by dwelling on these subjects so interesting to my heart, to raise my desponding spirits; but he soon felt that a prison cannot be the abode of cheerfulness. ‘What a place is this that you inhabit, my son!’ said he, looking mournfully at the barred windows and wretched appearance of the room. ‘You travelled to seek happiness, but a fatality seems to pursue you. And poor Clerval—‘
父亲向我保证他们的幸福，让我平静下来，并试图通过沉思这些我感兴趣的话题来振奋我沮丧的精神。但他很快就觉得监狱不可能是快乐的地方。 “我的孩子，你住的是什么地方啊！”他悲伤地看着铁栅栏的窗户和房间的破败景象。 ‘你旅行是为了寻找幸福，但命运似乎在追赶你。还有可怜的克莱瓦尔——”

The name of my unfortunate and murdered friend was an agitation too great to be endured in my weak state; I shed tears.
我那个不幸的、被谋杀的朋友的名字让我如此激动，在我虚弱的状态下根本无法忍受。我流下了眼泪。

‘Alas! Yes, my father,’ replied I; ‘some destiny of the most horrible kind hangs over me, and I must live to fulfil it, or surely I should have died on the coffin of Henry.’
'唉！是的，我的父亲。”我回答道。 “某种最可怕的命运笼罩着我，我必须活着去实现它，否则我肯定会死在亨利的棺材上。”

We were not allowed to converse for any length of time, for the precarious state of my health rendered every precaution necessary that could ensure tranquillity. Mr. Kirwin came in and insisted that my strength should not be exhausted by too much exertion. But the appearance of my father was to me like that of my good angel, and I gradually recovered my health.
我们不被允许长时间交谈，因为我的健康状况不稳定，需要采取一切必要的预防措施来确保平静。柯文先生进来并坚持说我的体力不应该因为过度劳累而耗尽。但父亲的出现对我来说就像我的善良天使一样，我的健康也逐渐恢复了。

As my sickness quitted me, I was absorbed by a gloomy and black melancholy that nothing could dissipate. The image of Clerval was forever before me, ghastly and murdered. More than once the agitation into which these reflections threw me made my friends dread a dangerous relapse. Alas! Why did they preserve so miserable and detested a life? It was surely that I might fulfil my destiny, which is now drawing to a close. Soon, oh, very soon, will death extinguish these throbbings and relieve me from the mighty weight of anguish that bears me to the dust; and, in executing the award of justice, I shall also sink to rest. Then the appearance of death was distant, although the wish was ever present to my thoughts; and I often sat for hours motionless and speechless, wishing for some mighty revolution that might bury me and my destroyer in its ruins.
当我的病好了之后，我的心里充满了一种无法消散的阴沉、黑色的忧郁。克莱瓦尔的形象永远浮现在我的面前，既可怕又被谋杀。这些想法给我带来的不安不止一次让我的朋友们担心危险的旧病复发。唉!他们为什么要过着如此悲惨、令人厌恶的生活呢？毫无疑问，我可能会实现我的命运，现在它已经接近尾声了。很快，哦，很快，死亡就会熄灭这些悸动，并将我从将我拖入尘土的巨大痛苦中解脱出来；在执行正义的裁决时，我也将沉入安息。然后死亡的出现就变得遥远了，尽管这个愿望一直存在于我的脑海中。我经常一动不动、一言不发地坐上几个小时，希望发生一些强大的革命，将我和我的毁灭者埋葬在废墟中。

The season of the assizes approached. I had already been three months in prison, and although I was still weak and in continual danger of a relapse, I was obliged to travel nearly a hundred miles to the country town where the court was held. Mr. Kirwin charged himself with every care of collecting witnesses and arranging my defence. I was spared the disgrace of appearing publicly as a criminal, as the case was not brought before the court that decides on life and death. The grand jury rejected the bill, on its being proved that I was on the Orkney Islands at the hour the body of my friend was found; and a fortnight after my removal I was liberated from prison.
巡回审判的季节即将来临。我已经在监狱里待了三个月了，尽管我仍然很虚弱，并且不断面临旧病复发的危险，但我还是不得不长途跋涉近一百英里，来到开庭的乡村小镇。柯文先生负责收集证人和安排我的辩护。我幸免于以罪犯身份公开露面的耻辱，因为此案没有提交至决定生死的法庭。大陪审团驳回了这项法案，因为它证明我朋友的尸体被发现时我就在奥克尼群岛；被驱逐两周后，我就从监狱里被释放了。

My father was enraptured on finding me freed from the vexations of a criminal charge, that I was again allowed to breathe the fresh atmosphere and permitted to return to my native country. I did not participate in these feelings, for to me the walls of a dungeon or a palace were alike hateful. The cup of life was poisoned forever, and although the sun shone upon me, as upon the happy and gay of heart, I saw around me nothing but a dense and frightful darkness, penetrated by no light but the glimmer of two eyes that glared upon me. Sometimes they were the expressive eyes of Henry, languishing in death, the dark orbs nearly covered by the lids and the long black lashes that fringed them; sometimes it was the watery, clouded eyes of the monster, as I first saw them in my chamber at Ingolstadt.
父亲欣喜若狂地发现我摆脱了刑事指控的烦恼，再次获准呼吸新鲜空气并获准返回祖国。我没有参与这些感受，因为对我来说，地牢或宫殿的墙壁都是可憎的。生命之杯永远被毒害了，尽管阳光照耀在我身上，就像照耀在幸福快乐的心上一样，但我只看到周围一片浓密而可怕的黑暗，除了两只眼睛的微光外，什么也没有。我。有时，它们是亨利富有表情的眼睛，在死亡中萎靡不振，黑色的眼珠几乎被眼睑和长长的黑色睫毛所覆盖。有时是怪物那双水汪汪、浑浊的眼睛，就像我在因戈尔施塔特的房间里第一次看到它们一样。

My father tried to awaken in me the feelings of affection. He talked of Geneva, which I should soon visit, of Elizabeth and Ernest; but these words only drew deep groans from me. Sometimes, indeed, I felt a wish for happiness and thought with melancholy delight of my beloved cousin or longed, with a devouring *maladie du pays*, to see once more the blue lake and rapid Rhone, that had been so dear to me in early childhood; but my general state of feeling was a torpor in which a prison was as welcome a residence as the divinest scene in nature; and these fits were seldom interrupted but by paroxysms of anguish and despair. At these moments I often endeavoured to put an end to the existence I loathed, and it required unceasing attendance and vigilance to restrain me from committing some dreadful act of violence.
父亲试图唤醒我内心的爱意。他谈到了我很快就要访问的日内瓦、伊丽莎白和欧内斯特。但这些话只引起我深深的呻吟。有时，确实，我感到一种对幸福的渴望，带着忧郁的喜悦想到我心爱的表弟，或者渴望，带着一种吞噬性的“付费病”，再次看到蓝色的湖水和湍急的罗纳河，那是我在孩提时代;但我的总体感觉是一种麻木状态，监狱就像大自然中最神圣的场景一样受欢迎。这些发作很少会被间歇性的痛苦和绝望打断。在这些时刻，我经常努力结束我所厌恶的存在，需要不断的关注和警惕才能阻止我做出一些可怕的暴力行为。

Yet one duty remained to me, the recollection of which finally triumphed over my selfish despair. It was necessary that I should return without delay to Geneva, there to watch over the lives of those I so fondly loved and to lie in wait for the murderer, that if any chance led me to the place of his concealment, or if he dared again to blast me by his presence, I might, with unfailing aim, put an end to the existence of the monstrous image which I had endued with the mockery of a soul still more monstrous. My father still desired to delay our departure, fearful that I could not sustain the fatigues of a journey, for I was a shattered wreck—the shadow of a human being. My strength was gone. I was a mere skeleton, and fever night and day preyed upon my wasted frame.
然而我仍然有一项责任，对它的回忆最终战胜了我自私的绝望。我有必要立即返回日内瓦，在那里监视我深爱的人们的生活，并埋伏等待凶手，如果有任何机会带我找到他藏身的地方，或者如果他敢的话再次用他的存在来攻击我，我可能会坚定不移地结束我用一个更可怕的灵魂的嘲弄而赋予的可怕形象的存在。父亲还是想推迟我们的出发时间，担心我受不了旅途的劳累，因为我是一个破碎的残骸——一个人的影子。我的力气消失了。我只剩下一副骷髅，日日夜夜的发烧折磨着我消瘦的身躯。

Still, as I urged our leaving Ireland with such inquietude and impatience, my father thought it best to yield. We took our passage on board a vessel bound for Havre-de-Grace and sailed with a fair wind from the Irish shores. It was midnight. I lay on the deck looking at the stars and listening to the dashing of the waves. I hailed the darkness that shut Ireland from my sight, and my pulse beat with a feverish joy when I reflected that I should soon see Geneva. The past appeared to me in the light of a frightful dream; yet the vessel in which I was, the wind that blew me from the detested shore of Ireland, and the sea which surrounded me told me too forcibly that I was deceived by no vision and that Clerval, my friend and dearest companion, had fallen a victim to me and the monster of my creation. I repassed, in my memory, my whole life—my quiet happiness while residing with my family in Geneva, the death of my mother, and my departure for Ingolstadt. I remembered, shuddering, the mad enthusiasm that hurried me on to the creation of my hideous enemy, and I called to mind the night in which he first lived. I was unable to pursue the train of thought; a thousand feelings pressed upon me, and I wept bitterly.
尽管如此，当我如此不安和不耐烦地敦促我们离开爱尔兰时，我父亲认为最好让步。我们登上了一艘开往格雷斯港的船，顺风从爱尔兰海岸航行。当时是半夜。我躺在甲板上，看着星星，听着海浪拍打的声音。我欢呼着将爱尔兰从我的视线中挡住的黑暗，当我想到我很快就会去日内瓦时，我的脉搏因狂热的喜悦而跳动。过去的事在我的梦境中浮现；然而，我乘坐的船只、从令人厌恶的爱尔兰海岸吹来的风以及包围着我的大海，都强烈地告诉我，我没有被任何远见所欺骗，而克莱瓦尔，我的朋友和最亲爱的同伴，已经坠落了。我和我创造的怪物的受害者。我在记忆中重温了我的一生——我和家人住在日内瓦时的平静幸福，我母亲的去世，以及我前往因戈尔施塔特的旅程。我不寒而栗地回忆起那种疯狂的热情，促使我催促我创造出我可怕的敌人，我想起了他第一次生活的那个夜晚。我无法继续思考；千百种感觉压在我的心头，我痛哭起来。

Ever since my recovery from the fever I had been in the custom of taking every night a small quantity of laudanum, for it was by means of this drug only that I was enabled to gain the rest necessary for the preservation of life. Oppressed by the recollection of my various misfortunes, I now swallowed double my usual quantity and soon slept profoundly. But sleep did not afford me respite from thought and misery; my dreams presented a thousand objects that scared me. Towards morning I was possessed by a kind of nightmare; I felt the fiend’s grasp in my neck and could not free myself from it; groans and cries rang in my ears. My father, who was watching over me, perceiving my restlessness, awoke me; the dashing waves were around, the cloudy sky above, the fiend was not here: a sense of security, a feeling that a truce was established between the present hour and the irresistible, disastrous future imparted to me a kind of calm forgetfulness, of which the human mind is by its structure peculiarly susceptible.
自从发烧痊愈后，我就养成了每天晚上服用少量鸦片酊的习惯，因为只有通过这种药物，我才能获得维持生命所需的休息。回忆起各种不幸，我感到压抑，现在我吞下双倍的量，很快就睡着了。但睡眠并没有让我从思考和痛苦中得到喘息的机会。我的梦里出现了一千个让我害怕的物体。早晨，我被一场噩梦所困扰。我感觉到恶魔抓住了我的脖子，无法挣脱。呻吟声和哭声在我耳边响起。父亲一直注视着我，察觉到我的焦躁不安，便叫醒了我。汹涌的波浪在周围，头顶阴云密布的天空，恶魔并不在这里：一种安全感，一种在当前时刻与不可抗拒的灾难性未来之间建立休战的感觉，给了我一种平静的遗忘，这种感觉人类的心灵因其结构而特别容易受到影响。

Chapter 22
第22章

The voyage came to an end. We landed, and proceeded to Paris. I soon found that I had overtaxed my strength and that I must repose before I could continue my journey. My father’s care and attentions were indefatigable, but he did not know the origin of my sufferings and sought erroneous methods to remedy the incurable ill. He wished me to seek amusement in society. I abhorred the face of man. Oh, not abhorred! They were my brethren, my fellow beings, and I felt attracted even to the most repulsive among them, as to creatures of an angelic nature and celestial mechanism. But I felt that I had no right to share their intercourse. I had unchained an enemy among them whose joy it was to shed their blood and to revel in their groans. How they would, each and all, abhor me and hunt me from the world did they know my unhallowed acts and the crimes which had their source in me!
航行结束了。我们降落，前往巴黎。我很快发现我的体力已经过度消耗，我必须休息一下才能继续我的旅程。父亲对我的关心和照顾是不知疲倦的，但他不知道我的痛苦的根源，并寻求错误的方法来治疗不治之症。他希望我到社会上寻找乐趣。我厌恶男人的脸。哦，不讨厌！他们是我的弟兄，我的同胞，我什至被他们中最令人厌恶的人所吸引，就像被天使性质和天体机制的生物所吸引。但我觉得我没有权利分享他们的交往。我在他们中间释放了一个敌人，他们的快乐就是流血并陶醉在他们的呻吟中。如果他们知道我的不道德行为和源于我的罪行，他们会多么憎恶我，并从世界上追捕我！

My father yielded at length to my desire to avoid society and strove by various arguments to banish my despair. Sometimes he thought that I felt deeply the degradation of being obliged to answer a charge of murder, and he endeavoured to prove to me the futility of pride.
我的父亲最终屈服于我逃避社交的愿望，并通过各种理由努力消除我的绝望。有时他认为我深深地感受到了被迫回答谋杀指控的屈辱，他努力向我证明骄傲是徒劳的。

‘Alas! My father,’ said I, ‘how little do you know me. Human beings, their feelings and passions, would indeed be degraded if such a wretch as I felt pride. Justine, poor unhappy Justine, was as innocent as I, and she suffered the same charge; she died for it; and I am the cause of this—I murdered her. William, Justine, and Henry—they all died by my hands.’
'唉！我的父亲，”我说，“你对我知之甚少。如果像我这样的坏蛋还感到骄傲，人类的感情和激情确实会被贬低。贾斯汀，可怜的不幸的贾斯汀，和我一样无辜，她也受到同样的指控；她为此而死；而我就是造成这一切的原因——我谋杀了她。威廉、贾斯汀和亨利——他们都死在我手里了。”

My father had often, during my imprisonment, heard me make the same assertion; when I thus accused myself, he sometimes seemed to desire an explanation, and at others he appeared to consider it as the offspring of delirium, and that, during my illness, some idea of this kind had presented itself to my imagination, the remembrance of which I preserved in my convalescence. I avoided explanation and maintained a continual silence concerning the wretch I had created. I had a persuasion that I should be supposed mad, and this in itself would forever have chained my tongue. But, besides, I could not bring myself to disclose a secret which would fill my hearer with consternation and make fear and unnatural horror the inmates of his breast. I checked, therefore, my impatient thirst for sympathy and was silent when I would have given the world to have confided the fatal secret. Yet, still, words like those I have recorded would burst uncontrollably from me. I could offer no explanation of them, but their truth in part relieved the burden of my mysterious woe.
在我被监禁期间，我父亲经常听到我说出同样的话。当我如此指责自己时，他有时似乎需要一个解释，有时他似乎认为这是精神错乱的产物，而在我生病期间，这种想法已经出现在我的想象中，对我的记忆我在康复期间保留了它。我避免解释，并对我创造的这个可怜虫保持持续的沉默。我有一种感觉，我应该被认为是疯了，而这本身就永远束缚了我的舌头。但是，除此之外，我无法让自己透露一个秘密，因为这个秘密会让我的听众感到惊愕，让他内心的居民感到恐惧和不自然的恐惧。因此，当我愿意向全世界吐露这个致命的秘密时，我抑制住了对同情的不耐烦的渴望，并保持沉默。然而，像我所记录的那些话仍然会不受控制地从我身上爆发出来。我无法对它们做出解释，但它们的真相在一定程度上减轻了我神秘的悲伤的负担。

Upon this occasion my father said, with an expression of unbounded wonder, ‘My dearest Victor, what infatuation is this? My dear son, I entreat you never to make such an assertion again.’
这时，我父亲满脸惊奇地说：“我最亲爱的维克多，这是什么迷恋？”我亲爱的儿子，我恳求你不要再做出这样的断言。

‘I am not mad,’ I cried energetically; ‘the sun and the heavens, who have viewed my operations, can bear witness of my truth. I am the assassin of those most innocent victims; they died by my machinations. A thousand times would I have shed my own blood, drop by drop, to have saved their lives; but I could not, my father, indeed I could not sacrifice the whole human race.’
“我没有生气。”我用力喊道。 ‘太阳和诸天，目睹了我的行动，可以为我的真理作证。我是那些最无辜受害者的刺杀者；他们死于我的阴谋。为了拯救他们的生命，我愿意一滴一滴地流自己的血一千次；但我不能，我的父亲，事实上我不能牺牲整个人类。”

The conclusion of this speech convinced my father that my ideas were deranged, and he instantly changed the subject of our conversation and endeavoured to alter the course of my thoughts. He wished as much as possible to obliterate the memory of the scenes that had taken place in Ireland and never alluded to them or suffered me to speak of my misfortunes.
这篇演讲的结论让父亲确信我的想法是疯狂的，他立即改变了我们谈话的主题，并试图改变我的想法。他希望尽可能抹去在爱尔兰发生的场景的记忆，并且从不提及这些场景，也不让我谈论我的不幸。

As time passed away I became more calm; misery had her dwelling in my heart, but I no longer talked in the same incoherent manner of my own crimes; sufficient for me was the consciousness of them. By the utmost self-violence I curbed the imperious voice of wretchedness, which sometimes desired to declare itself to the whole world, and my manners were calmer and more composed than they had ever been since my journey to the sea of ice.
随着时间的流逝，我变得更加平静；痛苦让她住在我心里，但我不再以同样语无伦次的方式谈论我自己的罪行；对我来说，他们的意识就足够了。我用最大的自暴力抑制了悲惨的专横声音，这种声音有时想向全世界宣告自己，我的举止比我踏上冰海之旅以来更加平静和镇定。

A few days before we left Paris on our way to Switzerland I received the following letter from Elizabeth:
在我们离开巴黎前往瑞士的前几天，我收到了伊丽莎白寄来的以下信：

My dear Friend,
我亲爱的朋友，

It gave me the greatest pleasure to receive a letter from my uncle dated at Paris; you are no longer at a formidable distance, and I may hope to see you in less than a fortnight. My poor cousin, how much you must have suffered! I expect to see you looking even more ill than when you quitted Geneva. This winter has been passed most miserably, tortured as I have been by anxious suspense; yet I hope to see peace in your countenance and to find that your heart is not totally void of comfort and tranquillity.
收到我叔叔在巴黎寄来的一封信让我感到非常高兴。你已经不再遥远，我希望在不到两周的时间里见到你。我可怜的表弟，你一定受了多少苦啊！我希望看到你看起来比你离开日内瓦时更糟糕。这个冬天过得很悲惨，我一直被焦虑的悬念折磨着。但我希望看到你脸上的平静，发现你的内心并非完全没有舒适和宁静。

Yet I fear that the same feelings now exist that made you so miserable a year ago, even perhaps augmented by time. I would not disturb you at this period, when so many misfortunes weigh upon you, but a conversation that I had with my uncle previous to his departure renders some explanation necessary before we meet.
然而，我担心现在仍然存在着一年前让你如此痛苦的同样的感觉，甚至可能随着时间的推移而加剧。在这个时期，当如此多的不幸降临在你身上时，我不会打扰你，但是在我叔叔离开之前我和他的一次谈话使我们在见面之前有必要做出一些解释。

Explanation! You may possibly say, What can Elizabeth have to explain? If you really say this, my questions are answered and all my doubts satisfied. But you are distant from me, and it is possible that you may dread and yet be pleased with this explanation; and in a probability of this being the case, I dare not any longer postpone writing what, during your absence, I have often wished to express to you but have never had the courage to begin.
解释！你可能会说，伊丽莎白需要解释什么？如果你真的这么说，我的疑问就得到了解答，我所有的疑虑都得到了解答。但你离我很远，你可能会害怕这个解释，但也会对这个解释感到满意。很可能情况就是这样，我不敢再推迟写下在你不在的时候我常常想向你表达却一直没有勇气开始的事情。

You well know, Victor, that our union had been the favourite plan of your parents ever since our infancy. We were told this when young, and taught to look forward to it as an event that would certainly take place. We were affectionate playfellows during childhood, and, I believe, dear and valued friends to one another as we grew older. But as brother and sister often entertain a lively affection towards each other without desiring a more intimate union, may not such also be our case? Tell me, dearest Victor. Answer me, I conjure you by our mutual happiness, with simple truth— Do you not love another?
维克多，你很清楚，自从我们还是婴儿以来，我们的结合一直是你父母最喜欢的计划。我们年轻时就被告知这一点，并被教导要期待它作为一件肯定会发生的事件。我们在童年时是亲密的玩伴，而且，我相信，随着年龄的增长，我们成为彼此亲爱的、有价值的朋友。但是，正如兄弟姐妹常常彼此怀有热烈的感情，却并不渴望更亲密的结合，我们的情况不也是如此吗？告诉我，最亲爱的维克多。回答我，我用我们共同的幸福和简单的真理召唤你——你不爱别人吗？

You have travelled; you have spent several years of your life at Ingolstadt; and I confess to you, my friend, that when I saw you last autumn so unhappy, flying to solitude from the society of every creature, I could not help supposing that you might regret our connection and believe yourself bound in honour to fulfil the wishes of your parents, although they opposed themselves to your inclinations. But this is false reasoning. I confess to you, my friend, that I love you and that in my airy dreams of futurity you have been my constant friend and companion. But it is your happiness I desire as well as my own when I declare to you that our marriage would render me eternally miserable unless it were the dictate of your own free choice. Even now I weep to think that, borne down as you are by the cruellest misfortunes, you may stifle, by the word ‘honour,’ all hope of that love and happiness which would alone restore you to yourself. I, who have so disinterested an affection for you, may increase your miseries tenfold by being an obstacle to your wishes. Ah! Victor, be assured that your cousin and playmate has too sincere a love for you not to be made miserable by this supposition. Be happy, my friend; and if you obey me in this one request, remain satisfied that nothing on earth will have the power to interrupt my tranquillity.
你已经旅行过；您在因戈尔施塔特度过了几年的时光；我向你承认，我的朋友，去年秋天，当我看到你如此不快乐，从一切生物的社会中飞向孤独时，我不禁认为你可能会后悔我们的联系，并相信自己有义务实现愿望你的父母，尽管他们反对你的倾向。但这是错误的推理。我向你承认，我的朋友，我爱你，在我对未来的幻想中，你一直是我忠实的朋友和伴侣。但当我向你宣布，我们的婚姻将使我永远痛苦，除非这是你自己自由选择的决定时，我既渴望你的幸福，也渴望我自己的幸福。即使是现在，我仍然哭泣地想到，尽管你被最残酷的不幸压垮了，但“荣誉”这个词可能会扼杀你对爱和幸福的所有希望，只有这些希望才能让你恢复自我。我对你如此无私的感情，可能会因为成为你愿望的障碍而使你的痛苦增加十倍。啊!维克多，请放心，你的表弟和玩伴对你的爱太真诚了，不会因为这种假设而感到痛苦。快乐吧，我的朋友；如果你听从我的这一请求，请放心，地球上没有任何东西能够扰乱我的平静。

Do not let this letter disturb you; do not answer tomorrow, or the next day, or even until you come, if it will give you pain. My uncle will send me news of your health, and if I see but one smile on your lips when we meet, occasioned by this or any other exertion of mine, I shall need no other happiness.
不要让这封信打扰你；明天、后天、甚至在你来之前都不要回答，如果这会给你带来痛苦。我叔叔会向我通报你的健康状况，当我们见面时，如果我只看到你嘴唇上的一丝微笑，因为我的这一努力或任何其他努力，我将不需要其他幸福。

Elizabeth Lavenza
伊丽莎白·拉文扎

Geneva, May 18th, 17—
2017 年 5 月 18 日，日内瓦——

This letter revived in my memory what I had before forgotten, the threat of the fiend—‘*I will be with you on your wedding-night!*’ Such was my sentence, and on that night would the daemon employ every art to destroy me and tear me from the glimpse of happiness which promised partly to console my sufferings. On that night he had determined to consummate his crimes by my death. Well, be it so; a deadly struggle would then assuredly take place, in which if he were victorious I should be at peace and his power over me be at an end. If he were vanquished, I should be a free man. Alas! What freedom? Such as the peasant enjoys when his family have been massacred before his eyes, his cottage burnt, his lands laid waste, and he is turned adrift, homeless, penniless, and alone, but free. Such would be my liberty except that in my Elizabeth I possessed a treasure, alas, balanced by those horrors of remorse and guilt which would pursue me until death.
这封信让我想起了之前已经忘记的事情，恶魔的威胁——“*我会在你的新婚之夜和你在一起！*”这就是我的句子，那天晚上，恶魔会用尽一切手段来摧毁让我远离幸福的一瞥，幸福一定程度上可以缓解我的痛苦。那天晚上，他决定用我的死来完成他的罪行。好吧，就这样吧；一场殊死的斗争肯定会发生，如果他获胜，我就可以安心，他对我的权力也就结束了。如果他被打败了，我就成为自由人了。唉!什么自由？这就是农民所享受的，当他的家人在他眼前被屠杀，他的小屋被烧毁，他的土地被荒废，他漂流、无家可归、身无分文、孤独但自由时。这就是我的自由，只是在我的伊丽莎白身上，我拥有了一件宝藏，唉，与那些将追随我直到死亡的悔恨和内疚的恐惧相平衡。

Sweet and beloved Elizabeth! I read and reread her letter, and some softened feelings stole into my heart and dared to whisper paradisiacal dreams of love and joy; but the apple was already eaten, and the angel’s arm bared to drive me from all hope. Yet I would die to make her happy. If the monster executed his threat, death was inevitable; yet, again, I considered whether my marriage would hasten my fate. My destruction might indeed arrive a few months sooner, but if my torturer should suspect that I postponed it, influenced by his menaces, he would surely find other and perhaps more dreadful means of revenge. He had vowed *to be with me on my wedding-night*, yet he did not consider that threat as binding him to peace in the meantime, for as if to show me that he was not yet satiated with blood, he had murdered Clerval immediately after the enunciation of his threats. I resolved, therefore, that if my immediate union with my cousin would conduce either to hers or my father’s happiness, my adversary’s designs against my life should not retard it a single hour.
可爱又可爱的伊丽莎白！我读了又读她的信，一些柔和的感觉悄悄渗入我的内心，并敢于低声诉说爱与欢乐的天堂般的梦想；但苹果已经被吃掉了，天使的手臂伸出来，让我失去了所有的希望。但为了让她幸福，我愿意死。如果怪物执行了他的威胁，死亡就不可避免；然而，我再次考虑我的婚姻是否会加速我的命运。我的毁灭确实可能会提前几个月到来，但如果我的折磨者怀疑我受到他的威胁的影响而推迟了它，他肯定会找到其他甚至更可怕的报复手段。他发誓“要在我的新婚之夜和我在一起”，但他并不认为这种威胁同时会束缚他的和平，因为他谋杀了克莱瓦尔，仿佛是为了向我表明他还没有满足于血腥味。在他发出威胁后立即。因此，我决定，如果我与表弟的直接结合有助于她或我父亲的幸福，那么我的对手对我生命的图谋就不应该拖延一小时。

In this state of mind I wrote to Elizabeth. My letter was calm and affectionate. ‘I fear, my beloved girl,’ I said, ‘little happiness remains for us on earth; yet all that I may one day enjoy is centred in you. Chase away your idle fears; to you alone do I consecrate my life and my endeavours for contentment. I have one secret, Elizabeth, a dreadful one; when revealed to you, it will chill your frame with horror, and then, far from being surprised at my misery, you will only wonder that I survive what I have endured. I will confide this tale of misery and terror to you the day after our marriage shall take place, for, my sweet cousin, there must be perfect confidence between us. But until then, I conjure you, do not mention or allude to it. This I most earnestly entreat, and I know you will comply.’
怀着这种心情，我写信给伊丽莎白。我的信是平静而深情的。 “我担心，我心爱的女孩，”我说，“我们在地球上的幸福已经所剩无几了；然而有一天我可能享受的一切都以你为中心。赶走你无谓的恐惧；我将我的生命和我为满足而付出的努力奉献给你。伊丽莎白，我有一个秘密，一个可怕的秘密；当它向你透露时，你一定会感到恐惧，然后，你不会对我的痛苦感到惊讶，而只会好奇我是否能幸存下来。我们结婚后的第二天，我会把这个痛苦和恐怖的故事告诉你，因为，我可爱的表弟，我们之间必须有完美的信任。但在那之前，我恳请你不要提及或暗示它。这是我最诚挚的恳求，我知道你会遵守的​​。”

In about a week after the arrival of Elizabeth’s letter we returned to Geneva. The sweet girl welcomed me with warm affection, yet tears were in her eyes as she beheld my emaciated frame and feverish cheeks. I saw a change in her also. She was thinner and had lost much of that heavenly vivacity that had before charmed me; but her gentleness and soft looks of compassion made her a more fit companion for one blasted and miserable as I was.
收到伊丽莎白的信大约一周后，我们回到了日内瓦。可爱的女孩热情地欢迎我，但当她看到我瘦弱的身躯和发烧的脸颊时，她的眼里含着泪水。我也看到了她的变化。她更瘦了，也失去了许多以前让我着迷的天堂般的活力。但她的温柔和温柔的怜悯之情使她成为像我这样受诅咒和痛苦的人更合适的伴侣。

The tranquillity which I now enjoyed did not endure. Memory brought madness with it, and when I thought of what had passed, a real insanity possessed me; sometimes I was furious and burnt with rage, sometimes low and despondent. I neither spoke nor looked at anyone, but sat motionless, bewildered by the multitude of miseries that overcame me.
我现在所享受的宁静并没有持续下去。记忆带来了疯狂，当我想起过去的事情时，一种真正的疯狂占据了我。有时我会勃然大怒、怒火中烧，有时又会情绪低落、沮丧。我既不说话也不看任何人，只是一动不动地坐着，对我所承受的众多痛苦感到困惑。

Elizabeth alone had the power to draw me from these fits; her gentle voice would soothe me when transported by passion and inspire me with human feelings when sunk in torpor. She wept with me and for me. When reason returned, she would remonstrate and endeavour to inspire me with resignation. Ah! It is well for the unfortunate to be resigned, but for the guilty there is no peace. The agonies of remorse poison the luxury there is otherwise sometimes found in indulging the excess of grief.
只有伊丽莎白有能力让我摆脱这些痛苦。当我激情澎湃时，她温柔的声音会抚慰我；当我陷入麻木时，她温柔的声音会激发我的人情味。她和我一起哭泣，也为我哭泣。当理智恢复时，她会提出抗议，并努力激励我辞职。啊!对于不幸的人来说，辞职是件好事，但是对于有罪的人来说，就没有安宁了。悔恨的痛苦毒害了有时沉溺于过度悲伤中的奢侈。

Soon after my arrival my father spoke of my immediate marriage with Elizabeth. I remained silent.
我到达后不久，父亲就谈到了我与伊丽莎白的直接婚姻。我保持沉默。

‘Have you, then, some other attachment?’
“那你还有别的执着吗？”

‘None on earth. I love Elizabeth and look forward to our union with delight. Let the day therefore be fixed; and on it I will consecrate myself, in life or death, to the happiness of my cousin.’
‘地球上没有。我爱伊丽莎白，并高兴地期待着我们的结合。因此，让日子固定下来；为此，我将奉献自己，无论生死，为了我表弟的幸福。

‘My dear Victor, do not speak thus. Heavy misfortunes have befallen us, but let us only cling closer to what remains and transfer our love for those whom we have lost to those who yet live. Our circle will be small but bound close by the ties of affection and mutual misfortune. And when time shall have softened your despair, new and dear objects of care will be born to replace those of whom we have been so cruelly deprived.’
“亲爱的维克多，别这样说话。沉重的不幸降临到我们身上，但让我们更加珍惜剩下的一切，将对那些我们失去的人的爱转移到那些还活着的人身上。我们的圈子虽小，但因感情和共同的不幸而紧密相连。当时间软化你的绝望时，新的、亲爱的照顾对象将会诞生，以取代那些我们被残酷剥夺的人。

Such were the lessons of my father. But to me the remembrance of the threat returned; nor can you wonder that, omnipotent as the fiend had yet been in his deeds of blood, I should almost regard him as invincible, and that when he had pronounced the words ‘*I shall be with you on your wedding-night*,’ I should regard the threatened fate as unavoidable. But death was no evil to me if the loss of Elizabeth were balanced with it, and I therefore, with a contented and even cheerful countenance, agreed with my father that if my cousin would consent, the ceremony should take place in ten days, and thus put, as I imagined, the seal to my fate.
这就是我父亲的教训。但我又想起了那个威胁。你也不会奇怪，尽管恶魔在他的血腥行为中无所不能，但我几乎认为他是无敌的，当他说出“*我将在你的新婚之夜与你在一起*”这句话时，我应该认为受到威胁的命运是不可避免的。但是，如果失去伊丽莎白与死亡相平衡，死亡对我来说并不是一件坏事，因此，我带着满足甚至高兴的表情，同意我父亲的意见，如果我表弟同意，仪式应该在十天内举行，并且正如我想象的那样，我的命运就这样被封印了。

Great God! If for one instant I had thought what might be the hellish intention of my fiendish adversary, I would rather have banished myself forever from my native country and wandered a friendless outcast over the earth than have consented to this miserable marriage. But, as if possessed of magic powers, the monster had blinded me to his real intentions; and when I thought that I had prepared only my own death, I hastened that of a far dearer victim.
大神啊！如果我有那么一瞬间想到了我的邪恶对手的邪恶意图，我宁愿永远将自己驱逐出我的祖国，在地球上成为一个没有朋友的流浪者，也不愿同意这桩悲惨的婚姻。但是，这个怪物就像拥有魔力一样，让我看不到他的真实意图。当我以为我只准备好了自己的死亡时，我却加速了一个更亲爱的受害者的死亡。

As the period fixed for our marriage drew nearer, whether from cowardice or a prophetic feeling, I felt my heart sink within me. But I concealed my feelings by an appearance of hilarity that brought smiles and joy to the countenance of my father, but hardly deceived the everwatchful and nicer eye of Elizabeth. She looked forward to our union with placid contentment, not unmingled with a little fear, which past misfortunes had impressed, that what now appeared certain and tangible happiness might soon dissipate into an airy dream and leave no trace but deep and everlasting regret.
随着我们结婚的日子越来越近，无论是出于怯懦还是出于预感，我感到我的心在往下沉。但我用一种欢闹的表情来掩饰自己的感情，这给父亲带来了微笑和喜悦，但很难欺骗伊丽莎白永远警惕和友善的眼睛。她怀着平静满足的心情期待着我们的结合，但也不乏一点恐惧，过去的不幸给她留下了深刻的印象，现在看来确定而切实的幸福可能很快就会消散成虚幻的梦想，除了深深而永恒的遗憾之外，不会留下任何痕迹。

Preparations were made for the event, congratulatory visits were received, and all wore a smiling appearance. I shut up, as well as I could, in my own heart the anxiety that preyed there and entered with seeming earnestness into the plans of my father, although they might only serve as the decorations of my tragedy. Through my father’s exertions a part of the inheritance of Elizabeth had been restored to her by the Austrian government. A small possession on the shores of Como belonged to her. It was agreed that, immediately after our union, we should proceed to Villa Lavenza and spend our first days of happiness beside the beautiful lake near which it stood.
活动准备工作已就绪，贺词不断，大家脸上都洋溢着笑容。我尽我所能，把内心的焦虑隐藏起来，并以看似认真的态度参与父亲的计划，尽管它们可能只是我的悲剧的装饰。通过我父亲的努力，奥地利政府将伊丽莎白的部分遗产归还给了她。科莫海岸上的一小块财产属于她。我们一致同意，在我们结婚后，我们应该立即前往拉文扎别墅，在别墅附近美丽的湖泊旁度过我们最初的幸福时光。

In the meantime I took every precaution to defend my person in case the fiend should openly attack me. I carried pistols and a dagger constantly about me and was ever on the watch to prevent artifice, and by these means gained a greater degree of tranquillity. Indeed, as the period approached, the threat appeared more as a delusion, not to be regarded as worthy to disturb my peace, while the happiness I hoped for in my marriage wore a greater appearance of certainty as the day fixed for its solemnization drew nearer and I heard it continually spoken of as an occurrence which no accident could possibly prevent.
与此同时，我采取了一切预防措施来保护我的人身，以防恶魔公然攻击我。我随身携带手枪和匕首，时刻警惕，防止有人使用诡计，通过这些方式获得了更大程度的平静。事实上，随着结婚日期的临近，这种威胁似乎更像是一种错觉，不值得打扰我的平静，而随着结婚典礼的日子越来越近，我在婚姻中所希望的幸福也显得更加确定。我不断地听到有人说这件事是任何意外都无法阻止的。

Elizabeth seemed happy; my tranquil demeanour contributed greatly to calm her mind. But on the day that was to fulfil my wishes and my destiny, she was melancholy, and a presentiment of evil pervaded her; and perhaps also she thought of the dreadful secret which I had promised to reveal to her on the following day. My father was in the meantime overjoyed and in the bustle of preparation only recognized in the melancholy of his niece the diffidence of a bride.
伊丽莎白看上去很高兴。我平静的举止极大地帮助她平静下来。但在实现我的愿望和命运的那一天，她却很忧郁，一种不祥的预感弥漫在她的身上；也许她还想到了我答应第二天向她透露的可怕秘密。与此同时，我的父亲欣喜若狂，在忙碌的准备过程中，他只从他侄女的忧郁中看出了新娘的羞怯。

After the ceremony was performed a large party assembled at my father’s, but it was agreed that Elizabeth and I should commence our journey by water, sleeping that night at Evian and continuing our voyage on the following day. The day was fair, the wind favourable; all smiled on our nuptial embarkation.
仪式结束后，一大群人在我父亲家聚集，但大家一致认为，伊丽莎白和我应该通过水路开始我们的旅程，当晚在依云过夜，第二天继续我们的航行。天气晴朗，风向适宜；在我们的婚礼上，所有人都微笑着。

Those were the last moments of my life during which I enjoyed the feeling of happiness. We passed rapidly along; the sun was hot, but we were sheltered from its rays by a kind of canopy while we enjoyed the beauty of the scene, sometimes on one side of the lake, where we saw Mont Saleve, the pleasant banks of Montalegre, and at a distance, surmounting all, the beautiful Mont Blanc and the assemblage of snowy mountains that in vain endeavour to emulate her; sometimes coasting the opposite banks, we saw the mighty Jura opposing its dark side to the ambition that would quit its native country, and an almost insurmountable barrier to the invader who should wish to enslave it.
那是我生命中最后的时刻，我享受着幸福的感觉。我们很快地过去了；太阳很热，但我们一边欣赏美丽的风景，一边用一种天篷遮挡阳光，有时在湖的一侧，我们可以看到蒙塔莱格雷宜人的萨莱维山，远处还有蒙塔莱格雷宜人的河岸。超越一切，美丽的勃朗峰和雪山的组合，徒劳地试图效仿她；有时，在对岸沿岸，我们看到强大的汝拉人反对其黑暗面，反对离开祖国的野心，对于想要奴役它的入侵者来说，这是几乎不可逾越的障碍。

I took the hand of Elizabeth. ‘You are sorrowful, my love. Ah! If you knew what I have suffered and what I may yet endure, you would endeavour to let me taste the quiet and freedom from despair that this one day at least permits me to enjoy.’
我握住伊丽莎白的手。 ‘你很悲伤，我的爱人。啊!如果你知道我所受的苦以及我可能还要忍受的，你会尽力让我尝到平静和免于绝望的自由，这一天至少能让我享受到。

‘Be happy, my dear Victor,’ replied Elizabeth; ‘there is, I hope, nothing to distress you; and be assured that if a lively joy is not painted in my face, my heart is contented. Something whispers to me not to depend too much on the prospect that is opened before us, but I will not listen to such a sinister voice. Observe how fast we move along and how the clouds, which sometimes obscure and sometimes rise above the dome of Mont Blanc, render this scene of beauty still more interesting. Look also at the innumerable fish that are swimming in the clear waters, where we can distinguish every pebble that lies at the bottom. What a divine day! How happy and serene all nature appears!’
“快乐吧，我亲爱的维克多，”伊丽莎白回答道。 “我希望，没有什么能让你烦恼；请放心，如果我的脸上没有洋溢着活泼的喜悦，我的心就满足了。有声音告诉我，不要过分依赖摆在我们面前的前景，但我不会听这样一个险恶的声音。观察我们前进的速度有多快，以及时而遮蔽时而升起在勃朗峰圆顶上方的云朵如何使这美丽的景色变得更加有趣。再看看清澈的海水中无数的鱼儿在游动，我们可以分辨出海底的每一颗鹅卵石。多么神圣的一天啊！大自然显得多么快乐和宁静啊！

Thus Elizabeth endeavoured to divert her thoughts and mine from all reflection upon melancholy subjects. But her temper was fluctuating; joy for a few instants shone in her eyes, but it continually gave place to distraction and reverie.
因此，伊丽莎白努力将她和我的思绪从忧郁的话题上转移开。但她的脾气却反复无常。她的眼中闪过片刻的喜悦，但很快就被心烦意乱和遐想所取代。

The sun sank lower in the heavens; we passed the river Drance and observed its path through the chasms of the higher and the glens of the lower hills. The Alps here come closer to the lake, and we approached the amphitheatre of mountains which forms its eastern boundary. The spire of Evian shone under the woods that surrounded it and the range of mountain above mountain by which it was overhung.
太阳在天上落得更低了；我们经过了德朗斯河，观察了它穿过高山峡谷和低山峡谷的路径。这里的阿尔卑斯山离湖越来越近，我们也接近了形成其东部边界的圆形剧场。依云的尖塔在周围的树林和它上方的连绵山峦的映照下熠熠生辉。

The wind, which had hitherto carried us along with amazing rapidity, sank at sunset to a light breeze; the soft air just ruffled the water and caused a pleasant motion among the trees as we approached the shore, from which it wafted the most delightful scent of flowers and hay. The sun sank beneath the horizon as we landed, and as I touched the shore I felt those cares and fears revive which soon were to clasp me and cling to me forever.
迄今为止，一直以惊人的速度带着我们前进的风，在日落时分变成了微风。当我们接近海岸时，柔和的空气使水面激起涟漪，在树林中引起愉快的运动，从那里飘出最令人愉悦的鲜花和干草的香味。当我们着陆时，太阳已经沉入地平线以下，当我到达岸边时，我感到那些忧虑和恐惧又重新出现，它们很快就会紧紧抓住我，永远粘在我身上。

Chapter 23
第23章

It was eight o’clock when we landed; we walked for a short time on the shore, enjoying the transitory light, and then retired to the inn and contemplated the lovely scene of waters, woods, and mountains, obscured in darkness, yet still displaying their black outlines.
我们着陆时已经是八点了。我们在岸边走了一小会儿，享受着转瞬即逝的光芒，然后就回到客栈，凝视着这片美丽的景色，水、树林和山在黑暗中被遮蔽，但仍然呈现出黑色的轮廓。

The wind, which had fallen in the south, now rose with great violence in the west. The moon had reached her summit in the heavens and was beginning to descend; the clouds swept across it swifter than the flight of the vulture and dimmed her rays, while the lake reflected the scene of the busy heavens, rendered still busier by the restless waves that were beginning to rise. Suddenly a heavy storm of rain descended.
原本从南边吹来的风，现在又猛烈地从西边吹起。月亮已经到达了天上的最高点，并开始下降。云彩掠过湖面的速度比秃鹫的飞行速度还要快，使她的光线变暗了，而湖面倒映着忙碌的天空的景象，而那些不安的波浪开始升起，使天空变得更加忙碌。突然，一场倾盆大雨倾盆而下。

I had been calm during the day, but so soon as night obscured the shapes of objects, a thousand fears arose in my mind. I was anxious and watchful, while my right hand grasped a pistol which was hidden in my bosom; every sound terrified me, but I resolved that I would sell my life dearly and not shrink from the conflict until my own life or that of my adversary was extinguished.
白天我很平静，但当夜幕遮蔽了物体的形状时，我的脑海里升起一千种恐惧。我焦急又警惕，右手握着一把藏在怀里的手枪；每一个声音都让我害怕，但我决心付出高昂的代价，我不会在冲突中退缩，直到我自己或我的对手的生命被消灭。

Elizabeth observed my agitation for some time in timid and fearful silence, but there was something in my glance which communicated terror to her, and trembling, she asked, ‘What is it that agitates you, my dear Victor? What is it you fear?’
伊丽莎白在一段时间里胆怯而可怕地沉默着，观察着我的激动，但我的目光中有些东西向她传达了恐惧，她颤抖着问道：“是什么让你如此激动，我亲爱的维克多？”你害怕什么？

‘Oh! Peace, peace, my love,’ replied I; ‘this night, and all will be safe; but this night is dreadful, very dreadful.’
'哦！平安，平安，我的爱人，”我回答道。 ‘今晚，一切都会安全；但这个夜晚太可怕了，非常可怕。”

I passed an hour in this state of mind, when suddenly I reflected how fearful the combat which I momentarily expected would be to my wife, and I earnestly entreated her to retire, resolving not to join her until I had obtained some knowledge as to the situation of my enemy.
我在这样的心情中度过了一个小时，突然想到我一时预期的战斗对我的妻子来说将是多么可怕，我恳求她退休，决定在我了解一些有关情况之前不加入她。我的敌人的情况。

She left me, and I continued some time walking up and down the passages of the house and inspecting every corner that might afford a retreat to my adversary. But I discovered no trace of him and was beginning to conjecture that some fortunate chance had intervened to prevent the execution of his menaces when suddenly I heard a shrill and dreadful scream. It came from the room into which Elizabeth had retired. As I heard it, the whole truth rushed into my mind, my arms dropped, the motion of every muscle and fibre was suspended; I could feel the blood trickling in my veins and tingling in the extremities of my limbs. This state lasted but for an instant; the scream was repeated, and I rushed into the room.
她离开了我，我继续在房子的通道里走来走去，检查每一个可能为我的对手提供退路的角落。但我没有发现他的踪迹，正开始猜测是不是有什么幸运的机会阻止了他的威胁的实施，突然我听到一声尖锐而可怕的尖叫。声音来自伊丽莎白退隐的房间。当我听到这句话的时候，整个真相冲进了我的脑海，我的双臂垂了下来，每一块肌肉和纤维的运动都停止了；我能感觉到血液在我的血管里流淌，四肢的四肢刺痛。这种状态只持续了一瞬间。尖叫声再次响起，我冲进了房间。

Great God! Why did I not then expire! Why am I here to relate the destruction of the best hope and the purest creature on earth? She was there, lifeless and inanimate, thrown across the bed, her head hanging down and her pale and distorted features half covered by her hair. Everywhere I turn I see the same figure— her bloodless arms and relaxed form flung by the murderer on its bridal bier. Could I behold this and live? Alas! Life is obstinate and clings closest where it is most hated. For a moment only did I lose recollection; I fell senseless on the ground.
大神啊！为什么我当时没有过期！为什么我要在这里讲述地球上最好的希望和最纯洁的生物的毁灭？她就在那里，毫无生气、毫无生气，被扔在床上，低着头，苍白扭曲的面容被头发遮住了一半。无论我走到哪里，我都能看到同一个身影——她毫无血色的手臂和被凶手扔在新娘棺材上的放松的身体。我能看到这个并活下去吗？唉!生命是顽固的，它最讨厌的地方却最贴近。我只是暂时失去了记忆；我倒在地上失去知觉。

When I recovered I found myself surrounded by the people of the inn; their countenances expressed a breathless terror, but the horror of others appeared only as a mockery, a shadow of the feelings that oppressed me. I escaped from them to the room where lay the body of Elizabeth, my love, my wife, so lately living, so dear, so worthy. She had been moved from the posture in which I had first beheld her, and now, as she lay, her head upon her arm and a handkerchief thrown across her face and neck, I might have supposed her asleep. I rushed towards her and embraced her with ardour, but the deadly languor and coldness of the limbs told me that what I now held in my arms had ceased to be the Elizabeth whom I had loved and cherished. The murderous mark of the fiend’s grasp was on her neck, and the breath had ceased to issue from her lips.
当我回过神来时，我发现自己被旅馆里的人包围了。他们的脸上流露出令人窒息的恐惧，但其他人的恐惧只是一种嘲讽，是压抑我的感情的阴影。我逃离了他们，来到了伊丽莎白的尸体所在的房间，我的爱人，我的妻子，她最近还活着，那么亲爱，那么值得。她已经不再是我第一次看到她时的姿势了，现在，当她躺着时，她的头枕在手臂上，一块手帕遮住了她的脸和脖子，我可能以为她睡着了。我冲向她，热情地拥抱她，但四肢致命的倦怠和冰冷告诉我，我现在怀里抱的不再是我曾经爱过、珍惜过的伊丽莎白。她的脖子上有恶魔抓握的杀气，她的嘴唇已经停止了呼吸。

While I still hung over her in the agony of despair, I happened to look up. The windows of the room had before been darkened, and I felt a kind of panic on seeing the pale yellow light of the moon illuminate the chamber. The shutters had been thrown back, and with a sensation of horror not to be described, I saw at the open window a figure the most hideous and abhorred. A grin was on the face of the monster; he seemed to jeer, as with his fiendish finger he pointed towards the corpse of my wife. I rushed towards the window, and drawing a pistol from my bosom, fired; but he eluded me, leaped from his station, and running with the swiftness of lightning, plunged into the lake.
当我仍然沉浸在绝望的痛苦中时，我碰巧抬起头来。房间的窗户本来就已经黑了，看到淡黄色的月光照亮房间，我心里有一种惊慌。百叶窗已经被推开，带着一种无法形容的恐怖感，我在开着的窗户上看到了一个最丑陋、最令人憎恶的人影。怪物的脸上露出了笑容。他似乎在嘲笑，用他凶恶的手指指着我妻子的尸体。我冲向窗户，从怀里掏出手枪，开火了；但他却躲开了我，从站台上一跃而下，以闪电般的速度奔跑，跳进了湖里。

The report of the pistol brought a crowd into the room. I pointed to the spot where he had disappeared, and we followed the track with boats; nets were cast, but in vain. After passing several hours, we returned hopeless, most of my companions believing it to have been a form conjured up by my fancy. After having landed, they proceeded to search the country, parties going in different directions among the woods and vines.
枪声一响，一群人就涌进了房间。我指着他消失的地方，我们划着小船顺着足迹走；人们撒下了网，但没有成功。几个小时后，我们绝望地回来了，我的大多数同伴都相信这是我凭空想象出来的。着陆后，他们开始搜寻这片土地，分队在树林和藤蔓间分头前往不同的方向。

I attempted to accompany them and proceeded a short distance from the house, but my head whirled round, my steps were like those of a drunken man, I fell at last in a state of utter exhaustion; a film covered my eyes, and my skin was parched with the heat of fever. In this state I was carried back and placed on a bed, hardly conscious of what had happened; my eyes wandered round the room as if to seek something that I had lost.
我本想陪着他们，离家走了一小段路，但我头晕目眩，脚步如醉汉，终于精疲力竭地倒了下去。一层薄膜遮住了我的眼睛，我的皮肤因发烧而干燥。在这种情况下，我被抬回来放在床上，几乎没有意识到发生了什么事。我的目光在房间里扫视，仿佛在寻找我失去的东西。

After an interval I arose, and as if by instinct, crawled into the room where the corpse of my beloved lay. There were women weeping around; I hung over it and joined my sad tears to theirs; all this time no distinct idea presented itself to my mind, but my thoughts rambled to various subjects, reflecting confusedly on my misfortunes and their cause. I was bewildered, in a cloud of wonder and horror. The death of William, the execution of Justine, the murder of Clerval, and lastly of my wife; even at that moment I knew not that my only remaining friends were safe from the malignity of the fiend; my father even now might be writhing under his grasp, and Ernest might be dead at his feet. This idea made me shudder and recalled me to action. I started up and resolved to return to Geneva with all possible speed.
过了一会儿，我站起来，仿佛出于本能，爬进了我心爱的尸体所在的房间。周围有妇女在哭泣；我悬在心头，与他们一起流下悲伤的泪水。一直以来，我的脑海中都没有出现任何明确的想法，但我的思绪却漫无目的地思考着不同的主题，混乱地思考着我的不幸及其原因。我感到困惑，充满惊奇和恐惧。威廉的死、贾斯汀的处决、克莱瓦尔的谋杀，最后是我妻子的谋杀；即使在那一刻，我也不知道我仅存的朋友们是否能免受恶魔的毒害。我父亲现在可能还在他的掌控下翻滚，欧内斯特也可能死在他的脚下。这个想法让我不寒而栗，并提醒我采取行动。我起身并决定以尽可能快的速度返回日内瓦。

There were no horses to be procured, and I must return by the lake; but the wind was unfavourable, and the rain fell in torrents. However, it was hardly morning, and I might reasonably hope to arrive by night. I hired men to row and took an oar myself, for I had always experienced relief from mental torment in bodily exercise. But the overflowing misery I now felt, and the excess of agitation that I endured rendered me incapable of any exertion. I threw down the oar, and leaning my head upon my hands, gave way to every gloomy idea that arose. If I looked up, I saw scenes which were familiar to me in my happier time and which I had contemplated but the day before in the company of her who was now but a shadow and a recollection. Tears streamed from my eyes. The rain had ceased for a moment, and I saw the fish play in the waters as they had done a few hours before; they had then been observed by Elizabeth. Nothing is so painful to the human mind as a great and sudden change. The sun might shine or the clouds might lower, but nothing could appear to me as it had done the day before. A fiend had snatched from me every hope of future happiness; no creature had ever been so miserable as I was; so frightful an event is single in the history of man.
没有马可买，我必须从湖边回来。但风不顺，雨倾盆而下。然而，现在还不是早上，我可能有理由希望在晚上到达。我雇人划船，自己划桨，因为我总能在身体锻炼中摆脱精神折磨。但我现在感到的极度痛苦和过度焦躁使我无法做出任何努力。我扔下桨，把头靠在双手上，让所有出现的悲观想法消失。如果我抬起头来，我会看到那些在我快乐的时候所熟悉的场景，以及前一天我在她的陪伴下思考过的场景，而她现在只是一个影子和回忆。泪水从我的眼中流淌出来。雨停了一会儿，我看到鱼儿像几个小时前一样在水里嬉戏。然后伊丽莎白就观察到了他们。对于人类心灵来说，没有什么比突然发生的巨大变化更痛苦的了。也许阳光灿烂，也许乌云密布，但在我看来，一切都不像前一天那样。一个恶魔夺走了我未来幸福的所有希望；从来没有人像我一样悲惨过。如此可怕的事件在人类历史上是独一无二的。

But why should I dwell upon the incidents that followed this last overwhelming event? Mine has been a tale of horrors; I have reached their acme, and what I must now relate can but be tedious to you. Know that, one by one, my friends were snatched away; I was left desolate. My own strength is exhausted, and I must tell, in a few words, what remains of my hideous narration.
但我为什么要详述这最后一次压倒性事件之后发生的事件呢？我的故事充满了恐怖；我已经达到了他们的巅峰，而我现在必须讲述的内容对你来说可能会很乏味。知道我的朋友一一被抢走了；我只剩下一片荒凉。我自己的力量已经耗尽，我必须用几句话讲述我所剩下的可怕的叙述。

I arrived at Geneva. My father and Ernest yet lived, but the former sunk under the tidings that I bore. I see him now, excellent and venerable old man! His eyes wandered in vacancy, for they had lost their charm and their delight—his Elizabeth, his more than daughter, whom he doted on with all that affection which a man feels, who in the decline of life, having few affections, clings more earnestly to those that remain. Cursed, cursed be the fiend that brought misery on his grey hairs and doomed him to waste in wretchedness! He could not live under the horrors that were accumulated around him; the springs of existence suddenly gave way; he was unable to rise from his bed, and in a few days he died in my arms.
我抵达日内瓦。我的父亲和欧内斯特还活着，但前者因我带来的消息而沉沦。我现在看到了他，一位优秀而可敬的老人！他的目光茫然地游移，因为它们已经失去了魅力和喜悦——他的伊丽莎白，他不仅仅是女儿，他用男人所感受到的全部感情来宠爱她，在生命的衰落中，感情很少，却更加依恋她。真诚地对待那些留下来的人。该诅咒，该诅咒那个给他的白发带来痛苦并注定他在悲惨中浪费的恶魔！他无法生活在周围累积的恐惧之下；存在的源泉突然消失了；他无法从床上起来，几天后就死在了我的怀里。

What then became of me? I know not; I lost sensation, and chains and darkness were the only objects that pressed upon me. Sometimes, indeed, I dreamt that I wandered in flowery meadows and pleasant vales with the friends of my youth, but I awoke and found myself in a dungeon. Melancholy followed, but by degrees I gained a clear conception of my miseries and situation and was then released from my prison. For they had called me mad, and during many months, as I understood, a solitary cell had been my habitation.
我后来怎么样了？我不知道;我失去了知觉，锁链和黑暗是唯一压在我身上的物体。有时，确实，我梦见自己和年轻时的朋友们一起在鲜花盛开的草地和宜人的山谷中漫步，但醒来后发现自己身处地牢之中。忧郁随之而来，但渐渐地，我对自己的痛苦和处境有了清晰的认识，然后就被释放出监狱了。因为他们说我疯了，据我所知，在许多个月里，一间单独的牢房一直是我的住所。

Liberty, however, had been a useless gift to me, had I not, as I awakened to reason, at the same time awakened to revenge. As the memory of past misfortunes pressed upon me, I began to reflect on their cause—the monster whom I had created, the miserable daemon whom I had sent abroad into the world for my destruction. I was possessed by a maddening rage when I thought of him, and desired and ardently prayed that I might have him within my grasp to wreak a great and signal revenge on his cursed head.
然而，如果我没有觉醒理性，同时觉醒复仇，自由对我来说就是一件无用的礼物。当过去不幸的记忆压在我身上时，我开始反思它们的原因——我创造的怪物，我派到世界上来毁灭我的悲惨恶魔。当我想到他时，我感到一阵令人发狂的愤怒，渴望并热切地祈祷我能抓住他，对他那该死的脑袋进行一次伟大而标志性的复仇。

Nor did my hate long confine itself to useless wishes; I began to reflect on the best means of securing him; and for this purpose, about a month after my release, I repaired to a criminal judge in the town and told him that I had an accusation to make, that I knew the destroyer of my family, and that I required him to exert his whole authority for the apprehension of the murderer.
我的仇恨也没有长期局限于无用的愿望；我开始思考保护他的最佳方法；为此，在我获释一个月后，我去见了镇上的一名刑事法官，告诉他我有一项指控，我知道破坏我家庭的人，我要求他尽一切努力。逮捕凶手的权力。

The magistrate listened to me with attention and kindness. ‘Be assured, sir,’ said he, ‘no pains or exertions on my part shall be spared to discover the villain.’
县长饶有兴趣地、和蔼地听我说话。 “请放心，先生，”他说道，“我将不遗余力地找出这个恶棍。”

‘I thank you,’ replied I; ‘listen, therefore, to the deposition that I have to make. It is indeed a tale so strange that I should fear you would not credit it were there not something in truth which, however wonderful, forces conviction. The story is too connected to be mistaken for a dream, and I have no motive for falsehood.’ My manner as I thus addressed him was impressive but calm; I had formed in my own heart a resolution to pursue my destroyer to death, and this purpose quieted my agony and for an interval reconciled me to life. I now related my history briefly but with firmness and precision, marking the dates with accuracy and never deviating into invective or exclamation.
“谢谢你，”我回答道。 “因此，请听听我必须做出的证词。这确实是一个如此奇怪的故事，我担心如果没有任何真实的东西，无论多么美妙，令人信服，你都不会相信它。这个故事的联系太紧密了，不可能被误认为是一场梦，而且我也没有撒谎的动机。我心里暗暗下定决心，要把我的毁灭者追到死，这个目的平息了我的痛苦，让我暂时与生活和解。现在，我简要地讲述了我的历史，但坚定而准确，准确地标记了日期，并且从不偏离谩骂或感叹。

The magistrate appeared at first perfectly incredulous, but as I continued he became more attentive and interested; I saw him sometimes shudder with horror; at others a lively surprise, unmingled with disbelief, was painted on his countenance.
治安法官一开始显得完全难以置信，但随着我的继续，他变得更加专注和感兴趣。我有时看到他因恐惧而颤抖。其他人的脸上则流露出惊讶与难以置信的表情。

When I had concluded my narration I said, ‘This is the being whom I accuse and for whose seizure and punishment I call upon you to exert your whole power. It is your duty as a magistrate, and I believe and hope that your feelings as a man will not revolt from the execution of those functions on this occasion.’
当我结束我的叙述时，我说：‘这就是我所指控的人，我呼吁你发挥你的全部力量，抓住并惩罚他。这是你作为一名地方法官的职责，我相信并希望你作为一个男人的感情不会因为这次履行这些职责而感到反感。”

This address caused a considerable change in the physiognomy of my own auditor. He had heard my story with that half kind of belief that is given to a tale of spirits and supernatural events; but when he was called upon to act officially in consequence, the whole tide of his incredulity returned. He, however, answered mildly, ‘I would willingly afford you every aid in your pursuit, but the creature of whom you speak appears to have powers which would put all my exertions to defiance. Who can follow an animal which can traverse the sea of ice and inhabit caves and dens where no man would venture to intrude? Besides, some months have elapsed since the commission of his crimes, and no one can conjecture to what place he has wandered or what region he may now inhabit.’
这个演讲使我自己的审计员的面貌发生了相当大的变化。他听了我的故事，带着半信半疑的态度，就像对鬼魂和超自然事件的故事一样。但当他被要求正式采取行动时，他的怀疑又回来了。然而，他温和地回答道：“我愿意为你的追求提供一切帮助，但你所说的生物似乎拥有足以挑战我所有努力的力量。谁能追踪一种能够穿越冰海、栖息在无人敢闯入的洞穴和巢穴的动物呢？而且，自他作案以来已经过去了几个月，没有人能猜测他流浪到了什么地方，或者他现在可能居住在哪个地区。

‘I do not doubt that he hovers near the spot which I inhabit, and if he has indeed taken refuge in the Alps, he may be hunted like the chamois and destroyed as a beast of prey. But I perceive your thoughts; you do not credit my narrative and do not intend to pursue my enemy with the punishment which is his desert.’
“我毫不怀疑他就在我居住的地方附近徘徊，如果他确实在阿尔卑斯山避难，他可能会像羚羊一样被猎杀，像猛兽一样被消灭。”但我明白你的想法；你不相信我的叙述，也不打算用惩罚追捕我的敌人，这是他应得的。

As I spoke, rage sparkled in my eyes; the magistrate was intimidated. ‘You are mistaken,’ said he. ‘I will exert myself, and if it is in my power to seize the monster, be assured that he shall suffer punishment proportionate to his crimes. But I fear, from what you have yourself described to be his properties, that this will prove impracticable; and thus, while every proper measure is pursued, you should make up your mind to disappointment.’
当我说话的时候，我的眼里闪烁着愤怒的光芒；法官被吓倒了。 “你错了，”他说。 “我会竭尽全力，如果我有能力抓住这个怪物，请放心，他将受到与其罪行相称的惩罚。”但我担心，从你自己所描述的他的财产来看，这将被证明是不切实际的；因此，尽管采取了一切适当的措施，你还是应该下定决心失望。

‘That cannot be; but all that I can say will be of little avail. My revenge is of no moment to you; yet, while I allow it to be a vice, I confess that it is the devouring and only passion of my soul. My rage is unspeakable when I reflect that the murderer, whom I have turned loose upon society, still exists. You refuse my just demand; I have but one resource, and I devote myself, either in my life or death, to his destruction.’
‘那不可能；但我能说的一切都无济于事。我的复仇对你来说并不重要；然而，虽然我承认这是一种恶习，但我承认这是吞噬我灵魂的唯一激情。当我想到那个被我放归社会的凶手仍然存在时，我的愤怒难以言喻。你拒绝我正当的要求；我只有一种资源，无论生死，我都致力于毁灭他。

I trembled with excess of agitation as I said this; there was a frenzy in my manner, and something, I doubt not, of that haughty fierceness which the martyrs of old are said to have possessed. But to a Genevan magistrate, whose mind was occupied by far other ideas than those of devotion and heroism, this elevation of mind had much the appearance of madness. He endeavoured to soothe me as a nurse does a child and reverted to my tale as the effects of delirium.
说这句话时，我激动得浑身发抖。我的举止中有一种疯狂，而且我毫不怀疑，有一种据说古代烈士所拥有的那种傲慢的凶猛。但对于一位日内瓦地方法官来说，他的思想除了奉献和英雄主义之外，还被其他思想所占据，这种思想的提升看起来很疯狂。他像护士抚慰孩子一样尽力安抚我，然后又把我的故事当作谵妄的影响来讲述。

‘Man,’ I cried, ‘how ignorant art thou in thy pride of wisdom! Cease; you know not what it is you say.’
“伙计，”我喊道，“你对自己的智慧感到骄傲，这是多么无知啊！停止;你不知道你在说什么。

I broke from the house angry and disturbed and retired to meditate on some other mode of action.
我愤怒而不安地冲出家门，然后退下来思考其他的行动方式。

Chapter 24
第24章

My present situation was one in which all voluntary thought was swallowed up and lost. I was hurried away by fury; revenge alone endowed me with strength and composure; it moulded my feelings and allowed me to be calculating and calm at periods when otherwise delirium or death would have been my portion.
我现在的处境是所有自愿的思想都被吞没和消失了。我因愤怒而匆忙离开；唯有复仇才赋予我力量和镇静；它塑造了我的感情，让我在某些时候能够保持精明和冷静，否则我就会陷入精神错乱或死亡。

My first resolution was to quit Geneva forever; my country, which, when I was happy and beloved, was dear to me, now, in my adversity, became hateful. I provided myself with a sum of money, together with a few jewels which had belonged to my mother, and departed.
我的第一个决定就是永远离开日内瓦。我的国家，当我快乐和热爱时，对我来说是亲爱的，现在，在我的逆境中，它变得可恨。我给了自己一笔钱，还有几件属于我母亲的珠宝，然后就离开了。

And now my wanderings began which are to cease but with life. I have traversed a vast portion of the earth and have endured all the hardships which travellers in deserts and barbarous countries are wont to meet. How I have lived I hardly know; many times have I stretched my failing limbs upon the sandy plain and prayed for death. But revenge kept me alive; I dared not die and leave my adversary in being.
现在我的流浪开始了，但随着生命的到来，我的流浪将结束。我走遍了地球的大部分地区，忍受了沙漠和野蛮国家的旅行者所常遇到的一切艰辛。我几乎不知道我是怎样生活的；很多次我把无力的四肢伸到沙地上祈祷死亡。但复仇让我活了下来；我不敢让我的对手死去。

When I quitted Geneva my first labour was to gain some clue by which I might trace the steps of my fiendish enemy. But my plan was unsettled, and I wandered many hours round the confines of the town, uncertain what path I should pursue. As night approached I found myself at the entrance of the cemetery where William, Elizabeth, and my father reposed. I entered it and approached the tomb which marked their graves. Everything was silent except the leaves of the trees, which were gently agitated by the wind; the night was nearly dark, and the scene would have been solemn and affecting even to an uninterested observer. The spirits of the departed seemed to flit around and to cast a shadow, which was felt but not seen, around the head of the mourner.
当我离开日内瓦时，我的首要任务就是寻找一些线索，以便追踪我的邪恶敌人的踪迹。但我的计划尚未确定，我在镇上徘徊了好几个小时，不确定自己应该走哪条路。夜幕降临时，我发现自己来到了威廉、伊丽莎白和我父亲安息的墓地入口处。我走进去，走近标志着他们坟墓的坟墓。一切都很安静，只有树叶被风轻轻地吹动。夜色已近漆黑，即使对于一个不感兴趣的旁观者来说，这一场景也会显得庄严而感人。逝者的灵魂似乎在哀悼者的头上飞来飞去，并在哀悼者的头顶投下一个影子，虽然能感觉到，但看不见。

The deep grief which this scene had at first excited quickly gave way to rage and despair. They were dead, and I lived; their murderer also lived, and to destroy him I must drag out my weary existence. I knelt on the grass and kissed the earth and with quivering lips exclaimed, ‘By the sacred earth on which I kneel, by the shades that wander near me, by the deep and eternal grief that I feel, I swear; and by thee, O Night, and the spirits that preside over thee, to pursue the daemon who caused this misery, until he or I shall perish in mortal conflict. For this purpose I will preserve my life; to execute this dear revenge will I again behold the sun and tread the green herbage of earth, which otherwise should vanish from my eyes forever. And I call on you, spirits of the dead, and on you, wandering ministers of vengeance, to aid and conduct me in my work. Let the cursed and hellish monster drink deep of agony; let him feel the despair that now torments me.’
这一幕一开始激起的深深的悲痛很快就变成了愤怒和绝望。他们死了，我还活着；杀害他们的凶手还活着，为了消灭他，我必须延长我疲惫的存在。我跪在草地上，亲吻大地，用颤抖的嘴唇喊道：“以我跪下的神圣大地，以在我身边徘徊的阴影，以我所感受到的深深而永恒的悲伤起誓，我发誓；夜啊，你和主宰你的灵魂，将追捕造成这场灾难的恶魔，直到他或我在殊死的冲突中灭亡。为此，我将保全性命；为了执行这一亲爱的复仇，我将再次看到太阳，踏上地球上的绿色草本植物，否则它们将永远从我的眼前消失。我呼吁你们，死者的灵魂，以及你们，流浪的复仇使者，来帮助和指导我的工作。让这个被诅咒的地狱怪物喝尽痛苦吧；让他感受到现在折磨我的绝望。

I had begun my adjuration with solemnity and an awe which almost assured me that the shades of my murdered friends heard and approved my devotion, but the furies possessed me as I concluded, and rage choked my utterance.
我以庄严和敬畏的心情开始了我的祈求，这几乎让我确信，我被谋杀的朋友的阴影听到并认可了我的奉献，但当我结束时，愤怒占据了我，愤怒使我的话语窒息。

I was answered through the stillness of night by a loud and fiendish laugh. It rang on my ears long and heavily; the mountains re-echoed it, and I felt as if all hell surrounded me with mockery and laughter. Surely in that moment I should have been possessed by frenzy and have destroyed my miserable existence but that my vow was heard and that I was reserved for vengeance. The laughter died away, when a well-known and abhorred voice, apparently close to my ear, addressed me in an audible whisper, ‘I am satisfied, miserable wretch! You have determined to live, and I am satisfied.’
在寂静的夜晚，回应我的是一声响亮而凶恶的笑声。它在我耳边悠长而沉重地回响；群山再次回响，我感觉整个地狱都充满了嘲笑和笑声。当然，在那一刻我应该陷入疯狂并摧毁我悲惨的存在，但我的誓言被听到了并且我保留了复仇。笑声渐渐消失，一个熟悉而令人厌恶的声音显然就在我耳边，用可听见的低语对我说：“我很满意，可怜的家伙！”你决心活下去，我就满足了。”

I darted towards the spot from which the sound proceeded, but the devil eluded my grasp. Suddenly the broad disk of the moon arose and shone full upon his ghastly and distorted shape as he fled with more than mortal speed.
我冲向声音发出的地方，但恶魔却躲开了我的抓捕。突然，宽阔的月亮升起，照亮了他那可怕而扭曲的身形，他以超凡的速度逃跑了。

I pursued him, and for many months this has been my task. Guided by a slight clue, I followed the windings of the Rhone, but vainly. The blue Mediterranean appeared, and by a strange chance, I saw the fiend enter by night and hide himself in a vessel bound for the Black Sea. I took my passage in the same ship, but he escaped, I know not how.
我追寻他，几个月来这一直是我的任务。在一丝线索的指引下，我沿着蜿蜒的罗纳河前行，但徒劳无功。蓝色的地中海出现了，一个奇怪的机会，我看到恶魔在夜间进入并隐藏在一艘开往黑海的船上。我乘坐同一艘船，但他却逃脱了，我不知道他是如何逃脱的。

Amidst the wilds of Tartary and Russia, although he still evaded me, I have ever followed in his track. Sometimes the peasants, scared by this horrid apparition, informed me of his path; sometimes he himself, who feared that if I lost all trace of him I should despair and die, left some mark to guide me. The snows descended on my head, and I saw the print of his huge step on the white plain. To you first entering on life, to whom care is new and agony unknown, how can you understand what I have felt and still feel? Cold, want, and fatigue were the least pains which I was destined to endure; I was cursed by some devil and carried about with me my eternal hell; yet still a spirit of good followed and directed my steps and when I most murmured would suddenly extricate me from seemingly insurmountable difficulties. Sometimes, when nature, overcome by hunger, sank under the exhaustion, a repast was prepared for me in the desert that restored and inspirited me. The fare was, indeed, coarse, such as the peasants of the country ate, but I will not doubt that it was set there by the spirits that I had invoked to aid me. Often, when all was dry, the heavens cloudless, and I was parched by thirst, a slight cloud would bedim the sky, shed the few drops that revived me, and vanish.
在鞑靼和俄罗斯的荒野中，尽管他仍然躲避着我，但我却一直追随着他的足迹。有时，农民们被这个可怕的幽灵吓坏了，他们告诉我他的行踪。有时，他本人也担心如果我失去了他的踪迹，我会绝望而死，他会留下一些标记来引导我。雪花落在我的头上，我在白色的平原上看到了他巨大的脚步印。对于初入生命的你来说，关怀是新鲜的，痛苦是未知的，你怎么能理解我曾经感受到的和仍然感受到的？寒冷、匮乏和疲劳是我注定要忍受的最小的痛苦；我被某个魔鬼诅咒，并带着我永远的地狱；然而，一种善良的精神仍然跟随并指引着我的脚步，当我最抱怨的时候，它会突然把我从看似无法克服的困难中解救出来。有时，当大自然因饥饿而疲惫不堪时，沙漠里为我准备的一顿饭，让我恢复活力，振奋精神。食物确实很粗糙，就像这个国家的农民吃的那样，但我毫不怀疑它是由我所祈求来帮助我的神灵摆在那里的。通常，当一切干燥、天空万里无云、我渴得口干舌燥时，天空中就会有一片薄云，洒下几滴使我苏醒的水滴，然后又消失了。

I followed, when I could, the courses of the rivers; but the daemon generally avoided these, as it was here that the population of the country chiefly collected. In other places human beings were seldom seen, and I generally subsisted on the wild animals that crossed my path. I had money with me and gained the friendship of the villagers by distributing it; or I brought with me some food that I had killed, which, after taking a small part, I always presented to those who had provided me with fire and utensils for cooking.
只要有可能，我就顺着河道走；但恶魔一般都会避开这些地方，因为这个国家的人口主要聚集在这里。在其他地方很少见到人类，我通常靠路过的野生动物为生。我身上有钱，通过分钱赢得了村民的友谊；或者我带着一些我杀掉的食物，在拿走一小部分后，我总是送给那些给我提供火和做饭用具的人。

My life, as it passed thus, was indeed hateful to me, and it was during sleep alone that I could taste joy. O blessed sleep! Often, when most miserable, I sank to repose, and my dreams lulled me even to rapture. The spirits that guarded me had provided these moments, or rather hours, of happiness that I might retain strength to fulfil my pilgrimage. Deprived of this respite, I should have sunk under my hardships. During the day I was sustained and inspirited by the hope of night, for in sleep I saw my friends, my wife, and my beloved country; again I saw the benevolent countenance of my father, heard the silver tones of my Elizabeth’s voice, and beheld Clerval enjoying health and youth. Often, when wearied by a toilsome march, I persuaded myself that I was dreaming until night should come and that I should then enjoy reality in the arms of my dearest friends. What agonizing fondness did I feel for them! How did I cling to their dear forms, as sometimes they haunted even my waking hours, and persuade myself that they still lived! At such moments vengeance, that burned within me, died in my heart, and I pursued my path towards the destruction of the daemon more as a task enjoined by heaven, as the mechanical impulse of some power of which I was unconscious, than as the ardent desire of my soul.
我的一生，就这样过去了，实在是可恨的，只有在睡眠中，我才能尝到快乐的滋味。哦，幸福的睡眠！通常，当我最痛苦的时候，我会沉入水中休息，我的梦会让我平静下来，甚至欣喜若狂。守护我的神灵为我提供了这些幸福的时刻，或者更确切地说是几个小时，让我可以保留力量来完成我的朝圣之旅。如果没有这个喘息的机会，我应该会陷入困境。白天，我被夜晚的希望所支撑和鼓舞，因为在睡梦中我看到了我的朋友、我的妻子和我心爱的国家；我再次看到父亲慈祥的面容，听到伊丽莎白银白色的声音，看到克莱瓦尔享受着健康和青春。通常，当艰苦的行军感到疲倦时，我说服自己，我正在做梦，直到夜幕降临，然后我应该在我最亲爱的朋友的怀抱中享受现实。我对他们有多么痛苦的喜爱啊！我如何坚持他们亲爱的形式，因为有时他们甚至在我醒着的时候出没，并说服自己他们还活着！在这样的时刻，在我内心燃烧的复仇在我心中死去，我追寻着毁灭恶魔的道路，更多的是作为上天赋予的任务，作为某种我无意识的力量的机械冲动，而不是作为我灵魂的热切渴望。

What his feelings were whom I pursued I cannot know. Sometimes, indeed, he left marks in writing on the barks of the trees or cut in stone that guided me and instigated my fury. ‘My reign is not yet over’— these words were legible in one of these inscriptions— ‘you live, and my power is complete. Follow me; I seek the everlasting ices of the north, where you will feel the misery of cold and frost, to which I am impassive. You will find near this place, if you follow not too tardily, a dead hare; eat and be refreshed. Come on, my enemy; we have yet to wrestle for our lives, but many hard and miserable hours must you endure until that period shall arrive.’
我所追求的人，他的感受如何，我不得而知。确实，有时他会在树皮上留下文字痕迹，或者在石头上刻下痕迹，来引导我并激起我的愤怒。 “我的统治尚未结束”——这些铭文中的一句话清晰可见——“你活着，我的力量已经完整。”跟我来;我寻找北方永恒的冰雪，在那里你会感受到寒冷和霜冻的痛苦，而我对此无动于衷。如果你追得不太慢的话，你会在这个地方附近发现一只死兔子；吃饱喝足，神清气爽。来吧，我的敌人；我们还没有为自己的生命而奋斗，但是你们必须忍受许多艰难和痛苦的时刻，直到那一天到来。

Scoffing devil! Again do I vow vengeance; again do I devote thee, miserable fiend, to torture and death. Never will I give up my search until he or I perish; and then with what ecstasy shall I join my Elizabeth and my departed friends, who even now prepare for me the reward of my tedious toil and horrible pilgrimage!
嘲笑魔鬼！我再次发誓要报仇；我再次让你，可怜的恶魔，遭受酷刑和死亡。我永远不会放弃我的寻找，直到他或我灭亡；然后，我将怀着多么狂喜的心情加入我的伊丽莎白和我已故的朋友们，他们甚至现在正在为我准备我乏味的辛劳和可怕的朝圣之旅的回报！

As I still pursued my journey to the northward, the snows thickened and the cold increased in a degree almost too severe to support. The peasants were shut up in their hovels, and only a few of the most hardy ventured forth to seize the animals whom starvation had forced from their hiding-places to seek for prey. The rivers were covered with ice, and no fish could be procured; and thus I was cut off from my chief article of maintenance.
当我继续向北行进时，雪越来越厚，寒冷几乎难以忍受。农民们被关在茅屋里，只有少数最坚强的人敢于冒险去捕捉因饥饿而被迫离开藏身之处寻找猎物的动物。河水结冰，捞不到鱼。就这样，我失去了主要的生活来源。

The triumph of my enemy increased with the difficulty of my labours. One inscription that he left was in these words: ‘Prepare! Your toils only begin; wrap yourself in furs and provide food, for we shall soon enter upon a journey where your sufferings will satisfy my everlasting hatred.’
我的敌人的胜利随着我工作的难度而增加。他留下的一段铭文是这样的：‘准备！你的辛劳才刚刚开始；用毛皮包裹自己并提供食物，因为我们很快就会踏上一段旅程，你的痛苦将满足我永远的仇恨。

My courage and perseverance were invigorated by these scoffing words; I resolved not to fail in my purpose, and calling on heaven to support me, I continued with unabated fervour to traverse immense deserts, until the ocean appeared at a distance and formed the utmost boundary of the horizon. Oh! How unlike it was to the blue seasons of the south! Covered with ice, it was only to be distinguished from land by its superior wildness and ruggedness. The Greeks wept for joy when they beheld the Mediterranean from the hills of Asia, and hailed with rapture the boundary of their toils. I did not weep, but I knelt down and with a full heart thanked my guiding spirit for conducting me in safety to the place where I hoped, notwithstanding my adversary’s gibe, to meet and grapple with him.
这些嘲讽的话激发了我的勇气和毅力；我决心不辱使命，祈求上天加持，继续以不减的热情，穿越茫茫沙漠，直到远处出现了海洋，形成了地平线的极限。哦！这与南方蓝色的季节多么不同啊！它被冰覆盖，与陆地的唯一区别在于其优越的荒野和崎岖。当希腊人从亚洲的山上看到地中海时，他们喜极而泣，欣喜若狂地欢呼他们辛劳的边界。我没有哭，但我跪下来，全心全意地感谢我的指引精神，感谢他将我安全地带到了我希望的地方，尽管我的对手嘲笑我，但我还是希望能与他会面并与之搏斗。

Some weeks before this period I had procured a sledge and dogs and thus traversed the snows with inconceivable speed. I know not whether the fiend possessed the same advantages, but I found that, as before I had daily lost ground in the pursuit, I now gained on him, so much so that when I first saw the ocean he was but one day’s journey in advance, and I hoped to intercept him before he should reach the beach. With new courage, therefore, I pressed on, and in two days arrived at a wretched hamlet on the seashore. I inquired of the inhabitants concerning the fiend and gained accurate information. A gigantic monster, they said, had arrived the night before, armed with a gun and many pistols, putting to flight the inhabitants of a solitary cottage through fear of his terrific appearance. He had carried off their store of winter food, and placing it in a sledge, to draw which he had seized on a numerous drove of trained dogs, he had harnessed them, and the same night, to the joy of the horror-struck villagers, had pursued his journey across the sea in a direction that led to no land; and they conjectured that he must speedily be destroyed by the breaking of the ice or frozen by the eternal frosts.
在此之前的几周，我买了一辆雪橇和几只狗，从而以难以想象的速度穿越雪地。我不知道这个恶魔是否也有同样的优势，但我发现，以前我在追击中每天都在失利，现在我却追上了他，以至于当我第一次看到大海时，他只是一天的路程。前进，我希望在他到达海滩之前拦截他。于是，我鼓起勇气继续前行，两天后就到达了海边一个破败的小村庄。我向居民询问了恶魔的情况，得到了准确的消息。他们说，前一天晚上，一个巨大的怪物带着一把枪和许多手枪来到了这里，由于害怕它可怕的外表，一座孤独小屋的居民都被赶走了。他把他们储存的冬季食物拿走，放在雪橇上，用他抓住的许多训练有素的狗来拉雪橇，他给它们套上挽具，当天晚上，给惊恐万分的村民们带来了欢乐。 ，他漂洋过海，朝着没有陆地的方向前进；他们推测他一定会因冰层破裂而迅速被摧毁，或被永恒的霜冻所冻结。

On hearing this information I suffered a temporary access of despair. He had escaped me, and I must commence a destructive and almost endless journey across the mountainous ices of the ocean, amidst cold that few of the inhabitants could long endure and which I, the native of a genial and sunny climate, could not hope to survive. Yet at the idea that the fiend should live and be triumphant, my rage and vengeance returned, and like a mighty tide, overwhelmed every other feeling. After a slight repose, during which the spirits of the dead hovered round and instigated me to toil and revenge, I prepared for my journey.
听到这个消息，我感到一阵短暂的绝望。他已经逃离了我，我必须开始一段毁灭性的、几乎永无止境的旅程，穿越海洋的山冰，在寒冷中，很少有居民能够长期忍受，而我，一个气候温和、阳光明媚的人，也不希望能忍受这种寒冷。存活。然而，一想到恶魔应该活着并取得胜利，我的愤怒和复仇又回来了，像汹涌的潮水一样，压倒了其他所有的感觉。在短暂的休息之后，死者的灵魂在周围盘旋，怂恿我辛劳和复仇，我准备出发。

I exchanged my land-sledge for one fashioned for the inequalities of the frozen ocean, and purchasing a plentiful stock of provisions, I departed from land.
我把陆地上的雪橇换成了专为应对冰冻海洋的不平等而设计的雪橇，并购买了充足的粮食，我离开了陆地。

I cannot guess how many days have passed since then, but I have endured misery which nothing but the eternal sentiment of a just retribution burning within my heart could have enabled me to support. Immense and rugged mountains of ice often barred up my passage, and I often heard the thunder of the ground sea, which threatened my destruction. But again the frost came and made the paths of the sea secure.
我不知道从那时起已经过去了多少天，但我所忍受的痛苦只有我心中燃烧的永恒的正义报应的情感才能支撑我。巨大而崎岖的冰山常常挡住我的去路，我常常听到地海的雷鸣声，威胁着我的毁灭。但霜冻又来了，使海上的道路变得安全。

By the quantity of provision which I had consumed, I should guess that I had passed three weeks in this journey; and the continual protraction of hope, returning back upon the heart, often wrung bitter drops of despondency and grief from my eyes. Despair had indeed almost secured her prey, and I should soon have sunk beneath this misery. Once, after the poor animals that conveyed me had with incredible toil gained the summit of a sloping ice mountain, and one, sinking under his fatigue, died, I viewed the expanse before me with anguish, when suddenly my eye caught a dark speck upon the dusky plain. I strained my sight to discover what it could be and uttered a wild cry of ecstasy when I distinguished a sledge and the distorted proportions of a well-known form within. Oh! With what a burning gush did hope revisit my heart! Warm tears filled my eyes, which I hastily wiped away, that they might not intercept the view I had of the daemon; but still my sight was dimmed by the burning drops, until, giving way to the emotions that oppressed me, I wept aloud.
根据我所消耗的食物数量，我猜我这一趟旅程已经过去了三个星期。持续的希望又回到心头，时常从我的眼中挤出苦涩的沮丧和悲伤的泪水。绝望确实几乎夺走了她的猎物，而我很快就会陷入这种痛苦之中。有一次，载着我的可怜的动物们经过令人难以置信的辛劳登上了一座倾斜的冰山的山顶，其中一只因疲劳而下沉而死，我痛苦地看着面前的广阔天地，突然我的眼睛看到了一个黑点。昏暗的平原。我睁大眼睛想看看它是什么，当我辨认出一个雪橇和里面一个众所周知的形状的扭曲比例时，我发出一声狂喜的尖叫。哦！希望以多么强烈的热情重新涌上我的心！温暖的泪水充满了我的眼睛，我匆忙擦去，以免它们遮挡我对恶魔的看法。但我的视线仍然被燃烧的水滴模糊了，直到我屈服于压抑我的情绪，放声大哭。

But this was not the time for delay; I disencumbered the dogs of their dead companion, gave them a plentiful portion of food, and after an hour’s rest, which was absolutely necessary, and yet which was bitterly irksome to me, I continued my route. The sledge was still visible, nor did I again lose sight of it except at the moments when for a short time some ice-rock concealed it with its intervening crags. I indeed perceptibly gained on it, and when, after nearly two days’ journey, I beheld my enemy at no more than a mile distant, my heart bounded within me.
但现在还不是拖延的时候。我解除了死去同伴的狗的束缚，给了它们充足的食物，经过一个小时的休息（这是绝对必要的，但对我来说非常令人厌烦）后，我继续我的路线。雪橇仍然可见，我也没有再失去它的视线，除非有一小段时间一些冰岩用其中间的峭壁遮住了它。我确实明显地取得了进展，经过近两天的路程，当我看到敌人就在不到一英里远的地方时，我的心在跳动。

But now, when I appeared almost within grasp of my foe, my hopes were suddenly extinguished, and I lost all trace of him more utterly than I had ever done before. A ground sea was heard; the thunder of its progress, as the waters rolled and swelled beneath me, became every moment more ominous and terrific. I pressed on, but in vain. The wind arose; the sea roared; and, as with the mighty shock of an earthquake, it split and cracked with a tremendous and overwhelming sound. The work was soon finished; in a few minutes a tumultuous sea rolled between me and my enemy, and I was left drifting on a scattered piece of ice that was continually lessening and thus preparing for me a hideous death.
但现在，当我几乎接近敌人时，我的希望突然破灭了，我比以前更彻底地失去了他的踪迹。听见地面传来海浪声；随着海水在我脚下翻滚、膨胀，它前进的雷鸣般的声音每时每刻都变得更加不祥和可怕。我继续努力，但徒劳无功。起风了；大海咆哮；就像地震带来的巨大冲击一样，它裂开了，发出巨大而压倒性的声音。工作很快就完成了；几分钟之内，汹涌的大海在我和敌人之间翻滚，我被留在一片零散的冰块上漂流，冰块不断缩小，从而为我准备了一场可怕的死亡。

In this manner many appalling hours passed; several of my dogs died, and I myself was about to sink under the accumulation of distress when I saw your vessel riding at anchor and holding forth to me hopes of succour and life. I had no conception that vessels ever came so far north and was astounded at the sight. I quickly destroyed part of my sledge to construct oars, and by these means was enabled, with infinite fatigue, to move my ice raft in the direction of your ship. I had determined, if you were going southwards, still to trust myself to the mercy of the seas rather than abandon my purpose. I hoped to induce you to grant me a boat with which I could pursue my enemy. But your direction was northwards. You took me on board when my vigour was exhausted, and I should soon have sunk under my multiplied hardships into a death which I still dread, for my task is unfulfilled.
就这样，可怕的几个小时过去了。我的几条狗都死了，而我自己也快要因累积的痛苦而沉没了，这时我看到你们的船停泊在锚泊中，向我带来了救援和生命的希望。我没想到船只会向北航行这么远，我对这一景象感到震惊。我很快就毁掉了我的雪橇的一部分来建造桨，通过这些方法，在无限的疲劳中，我能够将我的冰筏移向你的船的方向。我已经决定，如果你要向南航行，我仍然相信大海的摆布，而不是放弃我的目标。我希望说服你给我一艘船，我可以用它追击我的敌人。但你的方向是向北。你在我精疲力尽的时候把我带上了船，我很快就会在千辛万苦中陷入我至今仍害怕的死亡，因为我的任务没有完成。

Oh! When will my guiding spirit, in conducting me to the daemon, allow me the rest I so much desire; or must I die, and he yet live? If I do, swear to me, Walton, that he shall not escape, that you will seek him and satisfy my vengeance in his death. And do I dare to ask of you to undertake my pilgrimage, to endure the hardships that I have undergone? No; I am not so selfish. Yet, when I am dead, if he should appear, if the ministers of vengeance should conduct him to you, swear that he shall not live— swear that he shall not triumph over my accumulated woes and survive to add to the list of his dark crimes. He is eloquent and persuasive, and once his words had even power over my heart; but trust him not. His soul is as hellish as his form, full of treachery and fiendlike malice. Hear him not; call on the names of William, Justine, Clerval, Elizabeth, my father, and of the wretched Victor, and thrust your sword into his heart. I will hover near and direct the steel aright.
哦！我的引导精神什么时候才能引导我走向恶魔，让我得到我如此渴望的休息？或者我必须死而他还活着？如果我这样做了，沃尔顿，你向我发誓，他不会逃跑，你会找到他，为我报仇。我又敢要求你来承接我的朝圣，承受我所经历的磨难吗？不;我没那么自私。然而，当我死后，如果他出现，如果复仇的使者把他带到你身边，我发誓他不会活下去——发誓他不会战胜我积累的痛苦，生存下去，加入到他的黑暗名单中。犯罪行为。他能言善辩，很有说服力，一度他的话语甚至对我的心产生了影响；但不要相信他。他的灵魂和他的外表一样地狱般，充满了背叛和恶魔般的恶意。别听他说话；呼唤威廉、贾斯汀、克莱瓦尔、伊丽莎白、我父亲和可怜的维克多的名字，把你的剑刺进他的心脏。我将在附近盘旋并引导钢铁正确。

Walton, in continuation.
沃尔顿，继续。

August 26th, 17—
2017 年 8 月 26 日——

You have read this strange and terrific story, Margaret; and do you not feel your blood congeal with horror, like that which even now curdles mine? Sometimes, seized with sudden agony, he could not continue his tale; at others, his voice broken, yet piercing, uttered with difficulty the words so replete with anguish. His fine and lovely eyes were now lighted up with indignation, now subdued to downcast sorrow and quenched in infinite wretchedness. Sometimes he commanded his countenance and tones and related the most horrible incidents with a tranquil voice, suppressing every mark of agitation; then, like a volcano bursting forth, his face would suddenly change to an expression of the wildest rage as he shrieked out imprecations on his persecutor.
你已经读过这个奇怪而了不起的故事了，玛格丽特；难道你没有感觉到你的血液因恐惧而凝固，就像我现在的血液一样？有时，他突然感到极度痛苦，无法继续讲故事。在其他时候，他的声音破碎，但刺耳，艰难地说出充满痛苦的话语。他那双漂亮可爱的眼睛，时而闪烁着愤怒的光芒，时而被低沉的悲伤所压制，又因无限的悲惨而熄灭。有时他控制着自己的表情和语气，用平静的声音讲述最可怕的事件，压抑着每一个激动的痕迹。然后，他的脸就会像火山爆发一样，突然变成极度愤怒的表情，大声咒骂迫害他的人。

His tale is connected and told with an appearance of the simplest truth, yet I own to you that the letters of Felix and Safie, which he showed me, and the apparition of the monster seen from our ship, brought to me a greater conviction of the truth of his narrative than his asseverations, however earnest and connected. Such a monster has, then, really existence! I cannot doubt it, yet I am lost in surprise and admiration. Sometimes I endeavoured to gain from Frankenstein the particulars of his creature’s formation, but on this point he was impenetrable.
他的故事是用最简单的事实来联系和讲述的，但我向你承认，他给我看的菲利克斯和萨菲的信件，以及从我们船上看到的怪物的幽灵，给我带来了更大的信念他的叙述的真实性比他的主张更重要，无论他的主张多么真诚和有关联。这样的怪物，真的存在！我无法怀疑这一点，但我却感到惊讶和钦佩。有时我试图从弗兰肯斯坦那里了解他的生物构造的细节，但在这一点上他是难以理解的。

‘Are you mad, my friend?’ said he. ‘Or whither does your senseless curiosity lead you? Would you also create for yourself and the world a demoniacal enemy? Peace, peace! Learn my miseries and do not seek to increase your own.’
“你生气了吗，我的朋友？”他说。 “或者你毫无意义的好奇心会把你引向何方？你也会为自己和世界创造一个恶魔般的敌人吗？平安，平安！了解我的痛苦，不要试图增加你自己的痛苦。

Frankenstein discovered that I made notes concerning his history; he asked to see them and then himself corrected and augmented them in many places, but principally in giving the life and spirit to the conversations he held with his enemy. ‘Since you have preserved my narration,’ said he, ‘I would not that a mutilated one should go down to posterity.’
弗兰肯斯坦发现我记下了他的历史；他要求查看这些内容，然后他自己在许多地方进行了纠正和补充，但主要是为他与敌人的对话赋予了生命和精神。 “既然你保存了我的叙述，”他说，“我就不希望一部残缺不全的叙述流传后世。”

Thus has a week passed away, while I have listened to the strangest tale that ever imagination formed. My thoughts and every feeling of my soul have been drunk up by the interest for my guest which this tale and his own elevated and gentle manners have created. I wish to soothe him, yet can I counsel one so infinitely miserable, so destitute of every hope of consolation, to live? Oh, no! The only joy that he can now know will be when he composes his shattered spirit to peace and death. Yet he enjoys one comfort, the offspring of solitude and delirium; he believes that when in dreams he holds converse with his friends and derives from that communion consolation for his miseries or excitements to his vengeance, that they are not the creations of his fancy, but the beings themselves who visit him from the regions of a remote world. This faith gives a solemnity to his reveries that render them to me almost as imposing and interesting as truth.
就这样，一个星期过去了，而我却听到了想象中最奇怪的故事。我的思想和灵魂的每一种感觉都被这个故事和他自己高尚而温柔的举止所引起的对我的客人的兴趣所陶醉。我希望安慰他，但我能劝一个如此无限痛苦、如此缺乏安慰的人活下去吗？不好了！他现在能知道的唯一的快乐就是当他让自己破碎的灵魂平静下来并走向死亡时。然而他享受着一种安慰，那就是孤独和精神错乱的产物。他相信，当他在梦中与他的朋友们交谈时，并从那种对他的痛苦或对他的复仇的兴奋的交流中得到安慰时，他们不是他幻想的创造物，而是从遥远的地区拜访他的生物本身。世界。这种信仰使他的幻想变得庄严，使我觉得它们几乎像真理一样令人印象深刻和有趣。

Our conversations are not always confined to his own history and misfortunes. On every point of general literature he displays unbounded knowledge and a quick and piercing apprehension. His eloquence is forcible and touching; nor can I hear him, when he relates a pathetic incident or endeavours to move the passions of pity or love, without tears. What a glorious creature must he have been in the days of his prosperity, when he is thus noble and godlike in ruin! He seems to feel his own worth and the greatness of his fall.
我们的谈话并不总是局限于他自己的历史和不幸。他对普通文学的每一点都表现出了无限的知识和快速而敏锐的理解力。他的口才有力，感人至深；当他讲述一件可悲的事件或努力激发怜悯或爱的激情时，我也听不到他不流泪的声音。当他在繁荣的日子里，他一定是一个多么光荣的人物，而当他在废墟中却如此高贵和神圣时！他似乎感受到了自己的价值和堕落的伟大。

‘When younger,’ said he, ‘I believed myself destined for some great enterprise. My feelings are profound, but I possessed a coolness of judgment that fitted me for illustrious achievements. This sentiment of the worth of my nature supported me when others would have been oppressed, for I deemed it criminal to throw away in useless grief those talents that might be useful to my fellow creatures. When I reflected on the work I had completed, no less a one than the creation of a sensitive and rational animal, I could not rank myself with the herd of common projectors. But this thought, which supported me in the commencement of my career, now serves only to plunge me lower in the dust. All my speculations and hopes are as nothing, and like the archangel who aspired to omnipotence, I am chained in an eternal hell. My imagination was vivid, yet my powers of analysis and application were intense; by the union of these qualities I conceived the idea and executed the creation of a man. Even now I cannot recollect without passion my reveries while the work was incomplete. I trod heaven in my thoughts, now exulting in my powers, now burning with the idea of their effects. From my infancy I was imbued with high hopes and a lofty ambition; but how am I sunk! Oh! My friend, if you had known me as I once was, you would not recognize me in this state of degradation. Despondency rarely visited my heart; a high destiny seemed to bear me on, until I fell, never, never again to rise.’
“年轻的时候，”他说，“我相信自己注定会从事一些伟大的事业。我的感情很深厚，但我拥有冷静的判断力，这使我能够取得辉煌的成就。当其他人受到压迫时，这种对我天性价值的情感支持了我，因为我认为在无用的悲伤中抛弃那些可能对我的同胞有用的才能是犯罪行为。当我反思我所完成的作品时，我无法将自己与一群普通的投影仪相提并论，这不亚于创造一只敏感而理性的动物。但这个在我职业生涯开始时支持我的想法，现在却只会让我跌入尘埃。我所有的猜测和希望都化为泡影，就像渴望全能的大天使一样，被束缚在永恒的地狱里。我的想象力很丰富，但分析和应用的能力也很强；通过这些品质的结合，我构思并创造了一个人。直到现在，我仍无法毫无激情地回忆起作品未完成时的遐想。我在思想中踏上天堂，时而为自己的力量而欢欣鼓舞，时而为它们的效果而燃烧。从小我就充满了厚望和远大的抱负；但我怎么沉下去了！哦！我的朋友，如果你像以前一样了解我，你就不会认出处于这种堕落状态的我。沮丧很少袭击我的心；似乎有一种崇高的命运在支撑着我，直到我跌倒，再也没有站起来。”

Must I then lose this admirable being? I have longed for a friend; I have sought one who would sympathize with and love me. Behold, on these desert seas I have found such a one, but I fear I have gained him only to know his value and lose him. I would reconcile him to life, but he repulses the idea.
难道我就必须失去这个令人钦佩的存在吗？我渴望有一个朋友；我一直在寻找一个能够同情和爱我的人。看哪，在这片荒海中我找到了这样一个人，但我担心我得到他只是为了知道他的价值而失去他。我想让他接受生活，但他拒绝了这个想法。

‘I thank you, Walton,’ he said, ‘for your kind intentions towards so miserable a wretch; but when you speak of new ties and fresh affections, think you that any can replace those who are gone? Can any man be to me as Clerval was, or any woman another Elizabeth? Even where the affections are not strongly moved by any superior excellence, the companions of our childhood always possess a certain power over our minds which hardly any later friend can obtain. They know our infantine dispositions, which, however they may be afterwards modified, are never eradicated; and they can judge of our actions with more certain conclusions as to the integrity of our motives. A sister or a brother can never, unless indeed such symptoms have been shown early, suspect the other of fraud or false dealing, when another friend, however strongly he may be attached, may, in spite of himself, be contemplated with suspicion. But I enjoyed friends, dear not only through habit and association, but from their own merits; and wherever I am, the soothing voice of my Elizabeth and the conversation of Clerval will be ever whispered in my ear. They are dead, and but one feeling in such a solitude can persuade me to preserve my life. If I were engaged in any high undertaking or design, fraught with extensive utility to my fellow creatures, then could I live to fulfil it. But such is not my destiny; I must pursue and destroy the being to whom I gave existence; then my lot on earth will be fulfilled and I may die.’
“我感谢你，沃尔顿，”他说，“感谢你对如此悲惨的不幸者的善意；但当你谈到新的联系和新的感情时，你认为有什么可以取代那些已经消失的吗？对我来说，还有哪个男人可以像克莱瓦尔那样，或者有哪个女人可以像伊丽莎白一样？即使我们的感情没有被任何卓越的品质所强烈感动，我们童年的伙伴也总是对我们的思想具有一定的影响力，而这是后来的朋友几乎无法获得的。他们知道我们幼稚的性格，无论后来如何改变，都永远无法根除。他们可以根据我们动机的完整性得出更确定的结论来判断我们的行为。姐妹或兄弟决不能怀疑对方有欺诈或虚假交易，除非这些症状确实很早就表现出来，而另一个朋友，无论他的依恋有多强烈，可能会不由自主地受到怀疑。但我喜欢朋友，亲爱的，不仅因为习惯和交往，而且因为他们自己的优点。无论我身在何处，伊丽莎白舒缓的声音和克莱瓦尔的谈话都会在我耳边低语。他们都死了，但在如此孤独的环境中，一种感觉可以说服我保住自己的生命。如果我从事任何崇高的事业或设计，对我的同胞充满广泛的效用，那么我可以活着实现它吗？但这不是我的命运；我必须追寻并摧毁我赋予其存在的存在；然后我在地球上的命运就会实现，我可能会死。

My beloved Sister, September 2nd
我亲爱的妹妹，9月2日

I write to you, encompassed by peril and ignorant whether I am ever doomed to see again dear England and the dearer friends that inhabit it. I am surrounded by mountains of ice which admit of no escape and threaten every moment to crush my vessel. The brave fellows whom I have persuaded to be my companions look towards me for aid, but I have none to bestow. There is something terribly appalling in our situation, yet my courage and hopes do not desert me. Yet it is terrible to reflect that the lives of all these men are endangered through me. If we are lost, my mad schemes are the cause.
我写信给你，被危险和无知所包围，我是否注定会再次见到亲爱的英格兰和居住在其中的亲爱的朋友。我被冰山包围，无法逃脱，每时每刻都有可能压碎我的船只。我说服的那些勇敢的伙伴们向我寻求帮助，但我无能为力。我们的处境有些可怕，但我的勇气和希望并没有消失。然而，想到所有这些人的生命都因我而受到威胁，这真是太可怕了。如果我们迷路了，那是我疯狂的计划造成的。

And what, Margaret, will be the state of your mind? You will not hear of my destruction, and you will anxiously await my return. Years will pass, and you will have visitings of despair and yet be tortured by hope. Oh! My beloved sister, the sickening failing of your heart-felt expectations is, in prospect, more terrible to me than my own death. But you have a husband and lovely children; you may be happy. Heaven bless you and make you so!
玛格丽特，你的心态会怎样？你不会听到我的毁灭，你会焦急地等待我的归来。岁月流逝，你会经历绝望的降临，但也会被希望折磨。哦！我心爱的姐妹，你衷心的期望落空，对我来说，这比我自己的死亡更可怕。但你有丈夫和可爱的孩子；你可能会很高兴。上天保佑你，让你如此！

My unfortunate guest regards me with the tenderest compassion. He endeavours to fill me with hope and talks as if life were a possession which he valued. He reminds me how often the same accidents have happened to other navigators who have attempted this sea, and in spite of myself, he fills me with cheerful auguries. Even the sailors feel the power of his eloquence; when he speaks, they no longer despair; he rouses their energies, and while they hear his voice they believe these vast mountains of ice are mole-hills which will vanish before the resolutions of man. These feelings are transitory; each day of expectation delayed fills them with fear, and I almost dread a mutiny caused by this despair.
我不幸的客人以最温柔的同情心看待我。他努力让我充满希望，说话时就好像生命是他所珍视的财产。他提醒我，同样的事故经常发生在其他尝试过这片海域的航海家身上，他不由自主地给我带来了令人愉快的预兆。就连水手们也感受到了他雄辩的力量；当他说话时，他们不再绝望；他激发了他们的能量，当他们听到他的声音时，他们相信这些巨大的冰山是鼹鼠山，它们将在人类的决心面前消失。这些感觉是短暂的；等待的每一天都让他们充满恐惧，我几乎害怕这种绝望会引起叛变。

September 5th
9月5日

A scene has just passed of such uncommon interest that, although it is highly probable that these papers may never reach you, yet I cannot forbear recording it.
刚刚过去的一幕非常有趣，尽管这些文件很可能永远不会到达你的手中，但我还是忍不住把它记录下来。

We are still surrounded by mountains of ice, still in imminent danger of being crushed in their conflict. The cold is excessive, and many of my unfortunate comrades have already found a grave amidst this scene of desolation. Frankenstein has daily declined in health; a feverish fire still glimmers in his eyes, but he is exhausted, and when suddenly roused to any exertion, he speedily sinks again into apparent lifelessness.
我们仍然被冰山包围，仍然面临着在它们的冲突中被压垮的迫在眉睫的危险。天气太冷了，许多不幸的战友已经在这片荒凉的景象中找到了坟墓。弗兰肯斯坦的健康状况日益恶化；他的眼中仍然闪烁着狂热的火焰，但他已经筋疲力尽了，当突然被唤醒时，他很快又陷入了明显的死气沉沉。

I mentioned in my last letter the fears I entertained of a mutiny. This morning, as I sat watching the wan countenance of my friend— his eyes half closed and his limbs hanging listlessly— I was roused by half a dozen of the sailors, who demanded admission into the cabin. They entered, and their leader addressed me. He told me that he and his companions had been chosen by the other sailors to come in deputation to me to make me a requisition which, in justice, I could not refuse. We were immured in ice and should probably never escape, but they feared that if, as was possible, the ice should dissipate and a free passage be opened, I should be rash enough to continue my voyage and lead them into fresh dangers, after they might happily have surmounted this. They insisted, therefore, that I should engage with a solemn promise that if the vessel should be freed I would instantly direct my course southwards.
我在上一封信中提到了我对叛变的恐惧。今天早上，当我坐着看着朋友苍白的脸色时——他的眼睛半闭着，四肢无精打采地垂着——我被六名水手叫醒，他们要求进入船舱。他们进来了，他们的领袖向我讲话。他告诉我，他和他的同伴被其他水手选为代表我向我提出请求，出于正义，我无法拒绝。我们被困在冰里，可能永远无法逃脱，但他们担心，如果可能的话，冰消散并打开一条自由通道，我会鲁莽地继续我的航行，并在他们之后将他们带入新的危险。可能很高兴能够克服这一点。因此，他们坚持要求我做出庄严承诺，如果船只被释放，我将立即向南航行。

This speech troubled me. I had not despaired, nor had I yet conceived the idea of returning if set free. Yet could I, in justice, or even in possibility, refuse this demand? I hesitated before I answered, when Frankenstein, who had at first been silent, and indeed appeared hardly to have force enough to attend, now roused himself; his eyes sparkled, and his cheeks flushed with momentary vigour. Turning towards the men, he said, ‘What do you mean? What do you demand of your captain? Are you, then, so easily turned from your design? Did you not call this a glorious expedition? And wherefore was it glorious? Not because the way was smooth and placid as a southern sea, but because it was full of dangers and terror, because at every new incident your fortitude was to be called forth and your courage exhibited, because danger and death surrounded it, and these you were to brave and overcome. For this was it a glorious, for this was it an honourable undertaking. You were hereafter to be hailed as the benefactors of your species, your names adored as belonging to brave men who encountered death for honour and the benefit of mankind. And now, behold, with the first imagination of danger, or, if you will, the first mighty and terrific trial of your courage, you shrink away and are content to be handed down as men who had not strength enough to endure cold and peril; and so, poor souls, they were chilly and returned to their warm firesides. Why, that requires not this preparation; ye need not have come thus far and dragged your captain to the shame of a defeat merely to prove yourselves cowards. Oh! Be men, or be more than men. Be steady to your purposes and firm as a rock. This ice is not made of such stuff as your hearts may be; it is mutable and cannot withstand you if you say that it shall not. Do not return to your families with the stigma of disgrace marked on your brows. Return as heroes who have fought and conquered and who know not what it is to turn their backs on the foe.’
这段话让我很困扰。我并没有绝望，也没有想到如果获释就回来的想法。然而，出于正义，甚至可能，我可以拒绝这个要求吗？我在回答之前犹豫了一下，弗兰肯斯坦起初一直沉默不语，而且似乎几乎没有足够的力量参加，现在却清醒了过来。他的眼睛闪闪发亮，脸颊因瞬间的活力而通红。他转身对着那几个人说道：“你们这是什么意思？”你对你的队长有什么要求？那么，你就这么轻易地放弃了自己的设计吗？你不认为这是一次光荣的远征吗？为什么它是荣耀的呢？不是因为这条路像南海一样平坦平静，而是因为它充满了危险和恐怖，因为每一次新的事件都需要激发你的毅力，展现你的勇气，因为危险和死亡包围着它，而这些你我们要勇敢并克服。因为这是一项光荣的事业，因为这是一项光荣的事业。从此你们被尊为你们种族的恩人，你们的名字被尊崇为属于那些为了荣誉和人类利益而赴死的勇敢者。现在，看啊，当你第一次想象到危险时，或者，如果你愿意的话，第一次对你的勇气进行巨大而可怕的考验时，你退缩了，满足于被当作没有足够力量忍受寒冷和危险的人来传下来。 ;于是，可怜的人们，他们感到寒冷，又回到了温暖的炉边。为什么，这不需要这种准备；你们不必走到这一步，让你们的队长蒙受失败的耻辱，只是为了证明自己是胆小鬼。哦！成为男人，或者超越男人。坚定你的目标，坚如磐石。 这块冰不是由你们的心那样的材料制成的；它是可变的，如果你说它不会，它就无法承受你。不要带着耻辱回到你的家人身边。作为英雄归来，他们曾战斗和征服过，但不知道背弃敌人意味着什么。’

He spoke this with a voice so modulated to the different feelings expressed in his speech, with an eye so full of lofty design and heroism, that can you wonder that these men were moved? They looked at one another and were unable to reply. I spoke; I told them to retire and consider of what had been said, that I would not lead them farther north if they strenuously desired the contrary, but that I hoped that, with reflection, their courage would return.
他说这句话时，语气如此适合他讲话中所表达的不同感情，目光如此充满崇高的设计和英雄气概，你能奇怪这些人被感动了吗？他们面面相觑，无法回答。我说话;我告诉他们退休并考虑一下所说的话，如果他们强烈希望相反，我不会带领他们进一步向北，但我希望经过反思，他们的勇气会恢复。

They retired and I turned towards my friend, but he was sunk in languor and almost deprived of life.
他们退休了，我转向我的朋友，但他陷入了倦怠，几乎失去了生命。

How all this will terminate, I know not, but I had rather die than return shamefully, my purpose unfulfilled. Yet I fear such will be my fate; the men, unsupported by ideas of glory and honour, can never willingly continue to endure their present hardships.
这一切将如何结束，我不知道，但我宁愿死，也不愿带着未实现的目的羞辱而归。但我担心这就是我的命运；没有荣耀和荣誉观念的人们永远不会心甘情愿地继续忍受目前的苦难。

September 7th
9月7日

The die is cast; I have consented to return if we are not destroyed. Thus are my hopes blasted by cowardice and indecision; I come back ignorant and disappointed. It requires more philosophy than I possess to bear this injustice with patience.
模具已经铸成；我同意如果我们没有被消灭的话就回来。就这样，我的希望因怯懦和优柔寡断而破灭；我回来时一无所知且失望。我需要更多的哲学才能耐心地忍受这种不公正。

September 12th
9月12日

It is past; I am returning to England. I have lost my hopes of utility and glory; I have lost my friend. But I will endeavour to detail these bitter circumstances to you, my dear sister; and while I am wafted towards England and towards you, I will not despond.
已经过去了；我要回英国了。我已经失去了功利和荣耀的希望；我失去了我的朋友。但我会尽力向你详细描述这些痛苦的情况，我亲爱的妹妹；当我飘向英格兰和你们时，我不会沮丧。

September 9th, the ice began to move, and roarings like thunder were heard at a distance as the islands split and cracked in every direction. We were in the most imminent peril, but as we could only remain passive, my chief attention was occupied by my unfortunate guest whose illness increased in such a degree that he was entirely confined to his bed. The ice cracked behind us and was driven with force towards the north; a breeze sprang from the west, and on the 11th the passage towards the south became perfectly free. When the sailors saw this and that their return to their native country was apparently assured, a shout of tumultuous joy broke from them, loud and long-continued. Frankenstein, who was dozing, awoke and asked the cause of the tumult. ‘They shout,’ I said, ‘because they will soon return to England.’
9月9日，冰层开始移动，远处传来雷鸣般的轰鸣声，岛屿向四面八方裂开。我们正处于最迫在眉睫的危险之中，但由于我们只能保持被动，所以我的主要注意力都集中在我不幸的客人身上，他的病情加重了，以至于他完全只能躺在床上。我们身后的冰层裂开，被强力推向北方。一阵微风从西边吹来，11日，向南的通道完全畅通了。当水手们看到这一点，并且他们显然已经确定可以返回自己的祖国时，他们发出了一阵欢呼声，响亮而持久。正在打瞌睡的弗兰肯斯坦醒来并询问骚动的原因。 “他们大喊大叫，”我说，“因为他们很快就会返回英国。”

‘Do you, then, really return?’
“那么，你真的会回来吗？”

‘Alas! Yes; I cannot withstand their demands. I cannot lead them unwillingly to danger, and I must return.’
'唉！是的;我无法承受他们的要求。我不能不情愿地带领他们走向危险，我必须回来。

‘Do so, if you will; but I will not. You may give up your purpose, but mine is assigned to me by heaven, and I dare not. I am weak, but surely the spirits who assist my vengeance will endow me with sufficient strength.’ Saying this, he endeavoured to spring from the bed, but the exertion was too great for him; he fell back and fainted.
“如果你愿意的话，就这么做吧；但我不会。你可以放弃你的目的，但我的目的是上天给我的，我不敢。我很虚弱，但帮助我复仇的神灵一定会赋予我足够的力量。”说着，他努力从床上跳起来，但力气太大了，他无法继续下去。他向后倒去，晕了过去。

It was long before he was restored, and I often thought that life was entirely extinct. At length he opened his eyes; he breathed with difficulty and was unable to speak. The surgeon gave him a composing draught and ordered us to leave him undisturbed. In the meantime he told me that my friend had certainly not many hours to live.
过了很久他才恢复过来，我常常以为生命已经完全灭绝了。终于，他睁开了眼睛。他呼吸困难，无法说话。外科医生给了他一份草稿，并命令我们不要打扰他。与此同时，他告诉我，我的朋友肯定活不了多少时间了。

His sentence was pronounced, and I could only grieve and be patient. I sat by his bed, watching him; his eyes were closed, and I thought he slept; but presently he called to me in a feeble voice, and bidding me come near, said, ‘Alas! The strength I relied on is gone; I feel that I shall soon die, and he, my enemy and persecutor, may still be in being. Think not, Walton, that in the last moments of my existence I feel that burning hatred and ardent desire of revenge I once expressed; but I feel myself justified in desiring the death of my adversary. During these last days I have been occupied in examining my past conduct; nor do I find it blamable. In a fit of enthusiastic madness I created a rational creature and was bound towards him to assure, as far as was in my power, his happiness and well-being. This was my duty, but there was another still paramount to that. My duties towards the beings of my own species had greater claims to my attention because they included a greater proportion of happiness or misery. Urged by this view, I refused, and I did right in refusing, to create a companion for the first creature. He showed unparalleled malignity and selfishness in evil; he destroyed my friends; he devoted to destruction beings who possessed exquisite sensations, happiness, and wisdom; nor do I know where this thirst for vengeance may end. Miserable himself that he may render no other wretched, he ought to die. The task of his destruction was mine, but I have failed. When actuated by selfish and vicious motives, I asked you to undertake my unfinished work, and I renew this request now, when I am only induced by reason and virtue.
他的判决已经宣判，我只能悲伤并保持耐心。我坐在他的床边，看着他。他的眼睛闭着，我以为他睡着了。但不久他用微弱的声音呼唤我，叫我走近一点，说道：“唉！我所依赖的力量消失了；我觉得我快要死了，而他，我的敌人和迫害者，可能仍然存在。沃尔顿，不要以为在我生命的最后时刻，我感受到了我曾经表达过的强烈的仇恨和强烈的复仇欲望；但我觉得自己有理由希望我的对手死去。在这最后的日子里，我一直在审视自己过去的行为。我也不觉得这有什么可指责的。在一阵狂热的疯狂中，我创造了一个理性的生物，并且对他有义务，尽我所能，确保他的幸福和福祉。这是我的职责，但还有另一个更重要的职责。我对同类的责任更需要我的关注，因为它们包含了更大比例的幸福或痛苦。在这种观点的推动下，我拒绝了，我的拒绝是对的，为第一个生物创造一个伴侣。他在邪恶中表现出了无与伦比的恶毒和自私；他毁掉了我的朋友；他回向毁灭那些拥有微妙感受、快乐和智慧的众生。我也不知道这种复仇的渴望会在哪里结束。为了不让别人受苦，他自己就痛苦，他应该死。消灭他的任务是我的，但我失败了。当我出于自私和邪恶的动机而要求你承担我未完成的工作时，我现在再次提出这一要求，当时我只是出于理性和美德的诱导。

‘Yet I cannot ask you to renounce your country and friends to fulfil this task; and now that you are returning to England, you will have little chance of meeting with him. But the consideration of these points, and the well balancing of what you may esteem your duties, I leave to you; my judgment and ideas are already disturbed by the near approach of death. I dare not ask you to do what I think right, for I may still be misled by passion.
“但我不能要求你为了完成这项任务而放弃你的国家和朋友；现在你要回英国了，你和他见面的机会就很少了。但是，我把对这些要点的考虑，以及对你所认为的职责的良好平衡，交给你了。我的判断和想法已经被死亡的临近所扰乱。我不敢要求你做我认为正确的事，因为我仍然可能被激情所误导。

‘That he should live to be an instrument of mischief disturbs me; in other respects, this hour, when I momentarily expect my release, is the only happy one which I have enjoyed for several years. The forms of the beloved dead flit before me, and I hasten to their arms. Farewell, Walton! Seek happiness in tranquillity and avoid ambition, even if it be only the apparently innocent one of distinguishing yourself in science and discoveries. Yet why do I say this? I have myself been blasted in these hopes, yet another may succeed.’
“他活着就成了恶作剧的工具，这让我很不安；从其他方面来说，这一刻，当我暂时期待着我的释放时，是我多年来享受的唯一快乐的时刻。心爱的死者的身影在我面前掠过，我赶紧奔向他们的怀抱。再见，沃尔顿！在宁静中寻求幸福，避免野心，即使这只是表面上无辜的在科学和发现方面脱颖而出的野心。但我为什么要这么说呢？我自己就被这些希望击垮了，但另一个人可能会成功。

His voice became fainter as he spoke, and at length, exhausted by his effort, he sank into silence. About half an hour afterwards he attempted again to speak but was unable; he pressed my hand feebly, and his eyes closed forever, while the irradiation of a gentle smile passed away from his lips.
他的声音越说越微弱，最后，他因努力而疲惫不堪，陷入了沉默。大约半小时后，他再次试图说话，但无法说话。他无力地握住我的手，眼睛永远闭上了，而温柔的笑容则从他的唇边消失了。

Margaret, what comment can I make on the untimely extinction of this glorious spirit? What can I say that will enable you to understand the depth of my sorrow? All that I should express would be inadequate and feeble. My tears flow; my mind is overshadowed by a cloud of disappointment. But I journey towards England, and I may there find consolation.
玛格丽特，对于这种光荣精神的过早消亡，我能有何评论呢？我该说什么才能让你明白我的悲伤之深？我所要表达的一切都是不充分和软弱的。我的泪水流淌；我的心被失望的阴云笼罩着。但我将前往英国，也许我会在那里找到安慰。

I am interrupted. What do these sounds portend? It is midnight; the breeze blows fairly, and the watch on deck scarcely stir. Again there is a sound as of a human voice, but hoarser; it comes from the cabin where the remains of Frankenstein still lie. I must arise and examine. Good night, my sister.
我被打断了。这些声音预示着什么？现在是午夜;微风徐徐地吹着，甲板上的值班人员几乎没有动静。又传来了类似人声的声音，但声音更加嘶哑；它来自弗兰肯斯坦遗体仍然躺着的小屋。我必须起来检查。晚安，我的妹妹。

Great God! what a scene has just taken place! I am yet dizzy with the remembrance of it. I hardly know whether I shall have the power to detail it; yet the tale which I have recorded would be incomplete without this final and wonderful catastrophe.
大神啊！刚才发生了怎样的一幕啊！我至今仍对它记忆犹新。我几乎不知道我是否有能力详细说明它；然而，如果没有这场最后的、美妙的灾难，我所记录的故事将是不完整的。

I entered the cabin where lay the remains of my ill-fated and admirable friend. Over him hung a form which I cannot find words to describe—gigantic in stature, yet uncouth and distorted in its proportions. As he hung over the coffin, his face was concealed by long locks of ragged hair; but one vast hand was extended, in colour and apparent texture like that of a mummy. When he heard the sound of my approach, he ceased to utter exclamations of grief and horror and sprung towards the window. Never did I behold a vision so horrible as his face, of such loathsome yet appalling hideousness. I shut my eyes involuntarily and endeavoured to recollect what were my duties with regard to this destroyer. I called on him to stay.
我走进了小屋，里面躺着我不幸而令人钦佩的朋友的遗体。他头顶上悬挂着一个我无法用语言来形容的身影——身材巨大，但比例粗鲁且扭曲。当他挂在棺材上时，他的脸被长长的、破烂的头发遮住了。但伸出了一只巨大的手，颜色和纹理都像木乃伊。当他听到我走近的声音时，他不再发出悲伤和恐惧的呼喊，而是跳向窗户。我从来没有见过像他的脸那样可怕的景象，如此令人厌恶却又令人震惊的丑陋。我不由自主地闭上了眼睛，努力回想自己对这艘驱逐舰的职责是什么。我叫他留下来。

He paused, looking on me with wonder, and again turning towards the lifeless form of his creator, he seemed to forget my presence, and every feature and gesture seemed instigated by the wildest rage of some uncontrollable passion.
他停了下来，惊奇地看着我，然后再次转向他的创造者毫无生气的形式，他似乎忘记了我的存在，每一个特征和手势似乎都是由某种无法控制的激情的最疯狂的愤怒所煽动的。

‘That is also my victim!’ he exclaimed. ‘In his murder my crimes are consummated; the miserable series of my being is wound to its close! Oh, Frankenstein! Generous and self-devoted being! What does it avail that I now ask thee to pardon me? I, who irretrievably destroyed thee by destroying all thou lovedst. Alas! He is cold, he cannot answer me.’
“那也是我的受害者！”他惊呼道。 “他的谋杀使我的罪行得以完成；我一生的悲惨经历已经结束了！哦，弗兰肯斯坦！慷慨且自私的人！我现在请求你原谅我有什么用呢？我，通过摧毁你所爱的一切，无可挽回地摧毁了你。唉!他很冷，无法回答我。”

His voice seemed suffocated, and my first impulses, which had suggested to me the duty of obeying the dying request of my friend in destroying his enemy, were now suspended by a mixture of curiosity and compassion. I approached this tremendous being; I dared not again raise my eyes to his face, there was something so scaring and unearthly in his ugliness. I attempted to speak, but the words died away on my lips. The monster continued to utter wild and incoherent self-reproaches. At length I gathered resolution to address him in a pause of the tempest of his passion. ‘Your repentance,’ I said, ‘is now superfluous. If you had listened to the voice of conscience and heeded the stings of remorse before you had urged your diabolical vengeance to this extremity, Frankenstein would yet have lived.’
他的声音似乎令人窒息，我最初的冲动告诉我有责任服从朋友临死前的请求，消灭他的敌人，但现在却被好奇和同情的混合情绪所搁置。我走近这个伟大的存在；我不敢再抬头看他的脸，他的丑陋中有一种可怕而神秘的感觉。我试图说话，但话到嘴边就消失了。怪物继续发出疯狂而语无伦次的自责。最后，我下定决心，在他激情澎湃的间歇中对他讲话。 “你的悔改，”我说，“现在是多余的了。”如果你在将你的恶魔般的复仇逼到绝境之前倾听良心的声音并留意悔恨的刺痛，弗兰肯斯坦就还活着。

‘And do you dream?’ said the daemon. ‘Do you think that I was then dead to agony and remorse? He,’ he continued, pointing to the corpse, ‘he suffered not in the consummation of the deed. Oh! Not the ten-thousandth portion of the anguish that was mine during the lingering detail of its execution. A frightful selfishness hurried me on, while my heart was poisoned with remorse. Think you that the groans of Clerval were music to my ears? My heart was fashioned to be susceptible of love and sympathy, and when wrenched by misery to vice and hatred, it did not endure the violence of the change without torture such as you cannot even imagine.
“你会做梦吗？”恶魔问道。 ‘你认为我那时已经因痛苦和悔恨而死了吗？他，”他指着尸体继续说道，“他在完成这件事时并没有遭受痛苦。哦！这还不是我在执行过程中挥之不去的细节中所承受的万分之一的痛苦。一种可怕的自私催促着我，同时我的心也被悔恨所毒害。你认为克莱瓦尔的呻吟声对我来说是音乐吗？我的心生来就容易受到爱和同情的影响，当我的心被罪恶和仇恨的痛苦所折磨时，它就无法忍受变革的暴力，而不会遭受你甚至无法想象的折磨。

‘After the murder of Clerval I returned to Switzerland, heart-broken and overcome. I pitied Frankenstein; my pity amounted to horror; I abhorred myself. But when I discovered that he, the author at once of my existence and of its unspeakable torments, dared to hope for happiness, that while he accumulated wretchedness and despair upon me he sought his own enjoyment in feelings and passions from the indulgence of which I was forever barred, then impotent envy and bitter indignation filled me with an insatiable thirst for vengeance. I recollected my threat and resolved that it should be accomplished. I knew that I was preparing for myself a deadly torture, but I was the slave, not the master, of an impulse which I detested yet could not disobey. Yet when she died! Nay, then I was not miserable. I had cast off all feeling, subdued all anguish, to riot in the excess of my despair. Evil thenceforth became my good. Urged thus far, I had no choice but to adapt my nature to an element which I had willingly chosen. The completion of my demoniacal design became an insatiable passion. And now it is ended; there is my last victim!’
“克莱瓦尔被谋杀后，我回到瑞士，心碎又沮丧。我可怜弗兰肯斯坦；我的怜悯变成了恐惧；我厌恶自己。但当我发现他，我的存在及其难以言喻的折磨的创造者，竟然敢于希望幸福，当他在我身上积累不幸和绝望时，他却在我的放纵中寻求自己的情感和激情的享受。被永远禁止了，无能为力的嫉妒和苦涩的愤慨让我充满了无尽的复仇渴望。我回想起我的威胁并决定一定要完成它。我知道我正在为自己准备一场致命的折磨，但我是一种我厌恶却又无法抗拒的冲动的奴隶，而不是主人。然而当她死的时候！不，那样的话我并不痛苦。我已经抛弃了所有的感觉，抑制了所有的痛苦，在过度的绝望中暴动。从此恶变成了我的善。到目前为止，我别无选择，只能让我的本性适应我自愿选择的元素。完成我的恶魔般的设计变成了一种无法满足的激情。现在一切都结束了；这是我的最后一个受害者！

I was at first touched by the expressions of his misery; yet, when I called to mind what Frankenstein had said of his powers of eloquence and persuasion, and when I again cast my eyes on the lifeless form of my friend, indignation was rekindled within me. ‘Wretch!’ I said. ‘It is well that you come here to whine over the desolation that you have made. You throw a torch into a pile of buildings, and when they are consumed, you sit among the ruins and lament the fall. Hypocritical fiend! If he whom you mourn still lived, still would he be the object, again would he become the prey, of your accursed vengeance. It is not pity that you feel; you lament only because the victim of your malignity is withdrawn from your power.’
起初我被他痛苦的表情所感动。然而，当我想起弗兰肯斯坦所说的他的口才和说服力时，当我再次将目光投向我朋友毫无生气的身影时，我的愤怒再次燃起。 “可怜虫！”我说。 ‘你来这里抱怨你造成的荒凉是件好事。你把火把扔进一堆建筑物里，当它们被烧毁时，你坐在废墟中哀叹倒塌。虚伪的恶魔！如果你哀悼的那个人还活着，他仍然会成为你可恶的复仇的对象，他会再次成为你的猎物。你所感受到的并不是怜悯，而是怜悯。你哀叹只是因为你的恶意的受害者不再受你的控制。

‘Oh, it is not thus—not thus,’ interrupted the being. ‘Yet such must be the impression conveyed to you by what appears to be the purport of my actions. Yet I seek not a fellow feeling in my misery. No sympathy may I ever find. When I first sought it, it was the love of virtue, the feelings of happiness and affection with which my whole being overflowed, that I wished to be participated. But now that virtue has become to me a shadow, and that happiness and affection are turned into bitter and loathing despair, in what should I seek for sympathy? I am content to suffer alone while my sufferings shall endure; when I die, I am well satisfied that abhorrence and opprobrium should load my memory. Once my fancy was soothed with dreams of virtue, of fame, and of enjoyment. Once I falsely hoped to meet with beings who, pardoning my outward form, would love me for the excellent qualities which I was capable of unfolding. I was nourished with high thoughts of honour and devotion. But now crime has degraded me beneath the meanest animal. No guilt, no mischief, no malignity, no misery, can be found comparable to mine. When I run over the frightful catalogue of my sins, I cannot believe that I am the same creature whose thoughts were once filled with sublime and transcendent visions of the beauty and the majesty of goodness. But it is even so; the fallen angel becomes a malignant devil. Yet even that enemy of God and man had friends and associates in his desolation; I am alone.
“哦，不是这样的——不是这样的，”那个存在打断道。 “然而，这一定是我行为的目的所传达给你的印象。然而，我在痛苦中并不寻求任何同情。我永远找不到同情心。当我最初寻求它时，我希望参与的是对美德的热爱，对我整个人充满的幸福和情感的感受。如今，德行已成为我的影子，幸福和感情变成了痛苦和厌恶的绝望，我该用什么来寻求同情呢？我甘愿独自受苦，而我的痛苦将持续下去；当我死后，我很满意我的记忆中充满了憎恶和责难。曾经，我的幻想因美德、名声和享乐的梦想而得到抚慰。曾经，我错误地希望遇到一些人，他们会原谅我的外表，并会因为我能够展现的优秀品质而爱我。我受到崇高的荣誉和奉献思想的滋养。但现在犯罪使我沦为最卑鄙的动物。没有任何罪恶感，没有恶作剧，没有恶意，没有痛苦，可以与我相比。当我翻阅自己可怕的罪恶目录时，我不敢相信我还是同样的生物，我的思想曾经充满了崇高和超然的美丽和庄严的美好愿景。但即便如此；堕落的天使变成了恶毒的恶魔。然而，即使是上帝和人类的敌人，在他的荒凉中也有朋友和同事。我独自一人。

‘You, who call Frankenstein your friend, seem to have a knowledge of my crimes and his misfortunes. But in the detail which he gave you of them he could not sum up the hours and months of misery which I endured wasting in impotent passions. For while I destroyed his hopes, I did not satisfy my own desires. They were forever ardent and craving; still I desired love and fellowship, and I was still spurned. Was there no injustice in this? Am I to be thought the only criminal, when all humankind sinned against me? Why do you not hate Felix, who drove his friend from his door with contumely? Why do you not execrate the rustic who sought to destroy the saviour of his child? Nay, these are virtuous and immaculate beings! I, the miserable and the abandoned, am an abortion, to be spurned at, and kicked, and trampled on. Even now my blood boils at the recollection of this injustice.
‘你把弗兰肯斯坦称为你的朋友，似乎了解我的罪行和他的不幸。但在他向你提供的细节中，他无法概括我在无能为力的激情中所忍受的痛苦的时间和月份。因为虽然我摧毁了他的希望，但我并没有满足我自己的欲望。他们永远充满热情和渴望；我仍然渴望爱和友谊，但我仍然被拒绝。这难道没有什么不公平吗？当全人类都对我犯下罪行时，我会被认为是唯一的罪犯吗？你为什么不恨菲利克斯，他用侮辱性的语气把他的朋友赶出了家门？你为什么不咒骂那个试图毁掉孩子救世主的乡下人呢？不，这些人都是善良、纯洁的众生！我，悲惨的人和被遗弃的人，是一个堕胎，被唾弃、被踢、被践踏。即使现在，一想起这种不公正的事，我仍热血沸腾。

‘But it is true that I am a wretch. I have murdered the lovely and the helpless; I have strangled the innocent as they slept and grasped to death his throat who never injured me or any other living thing. I have devoted my creator, the select specimen of all that is worthy of love and admiration among men, to misery; I have pursued him even to that irremediable ruin. There he lies, white and cold in death. You hate me, but your abhorrence cannot equal that with which I regard myself. I look on the hands which executed the deed; I think on the heart in which the imagination of it was conceived and long for the moment when these hands will meet my eyes, when that imagination will haunt my thoughts no more.
‘但我确实是个可怜虫。我谋杀了可爱和无助的人；我在无辜者熟睡时勒死了他们，并掐死了他的喉咙，而他从未伤害过我或任何其他生物。我把我的创造者——所有值得人类热爱和钦佩的事物的精选典范——奉献给了苦难；我已经把他追到了无可挽回的地步。他躺在那里，脸色苍白，冰冷死了。你恨我，但你的恨意比不上我对自己的恨意。我看着执行这件事的双手；我在心里想着它的想象，渴望这双手与我的目光相遇的那一刻，那时想象将不再萦绕在我的脑海里。

‘Fear not that I shall be the instrument of future mischief. My work is nearly complete. Neither yours nor any man’s death is needed to consummate the series of my being and accomplish that which must be done, but it requires my own. Do not think that I shall be slow to perform this sacrifice. I shall quit your vessel on the ice raft which brought me thither and shall seek the most northern extremity of the globe; I shall collect my funeral pile and consume to ashes this miserable frame, that its remains may afford no light to any curious and unhallowed wretch who would create such another as I have been. I shall die. I shall no longer feel the agonies which now consume me or be the prey of feelings unsatisfied, yet unquenched. He is dead who called me into being; and when I shall be no more, the very remembrance of us both will speedily vanish. I shall no longer see the sun or stars or feel the winds play on my cheeks. Light, feeling, and sense will pass away; and in this condition must I find my happiness. Some years ago, when the images which this world affords first opened upon me, when I felt the cheering warmth of summer and heard the rustling of the leaves and the warbling of the birds, and these were all to me, I should have wept to die; now it is my only consolation. Polluted by crimes and torn by the bitterest remorse, where can I find rest but in death?
‘别担心我会成为未来恶作剧的工具。我的工作即将完成。无论是你的死，还是任何人的死，都不需要完成我存在的系列并完成必须完成的事情，但这需要我自己的死亡。别以为我会慢慢地完成这个牺牲。我将在带我到达那里的冰筏上离开你的船，并寻求地球的最北端。我将收集我的葬礼堆并将这个悲惨的框架烧成灰烬，这样它的遗骸就不会为任何好奇和不神圣的可怜虫提供任何光明，他们会创造出像我这样的另一个人。我会死的。我将不再感到现在吞噬我的痛苦，也不再成为未得到满足但尚未平息的情感的牺牲品。创造我的他死了；当我不再存在时，我们两人的记忆也会很快消失。我将不再看到太阳或星星，也不再感觉风吹过我的脸颊。光、受、知都会消失；在这种情况下我必须找到我的幸福。几年前，当这个世界所提供的景象第一次在我面前展开时，当我感受到夏天令人愉悦的温暖，听到树叶的沙沙声和鸟儿的鸣叫时，而这些都是我的，我应该哭泣死;现在这是我唯一的安慰。被罪恶所污染，被最痛苦的悔恨所撕裂，除了死亡，我还能在哪里找到休息呢？

‘Farewell! I leave you, and in you the last of humankind whom these eyes will ever behold. Farewell, Frankenstein! If thou wert yet alive and yet cherished a desire of revenge against me, it would be better satiated in my life than in my destruction. But it was not so; thou didst seek my extinction, that I might not cause greater wretchedness; and if yet, in some mode unknown to me, thou hadst not ceased to think and feel, thou wouldst not desire against me a vengeance greater than that which I feel. Blasted as thou wert, my agony was still superior to thine, for the bitter sting of remorse will not cease to rankle in my wounds until death shall close them forever.
'告别！我离开你，离开你，成为这些眼睛永远注视的最后一个人类。再见，弗兰肯斯坦！如果你还活着，并且还怀有向我复仇的愿望，那么在我的生命中得到满足比在我的毁灭中得到更好的满足。但事实并非如此。你想要我的灭亡，以免我造成更大的不幸；如果你以某种我不知道的方式停止思考和感受，你就不会渴望对我进行比我感受到的更大的报复。尽管你受到了诅咒，但我的痛苦仍然比你的痛苦更强烈，因为悔恨的痛苦不会停止刺痛我的伤口，直到死亡将它们永远合拢。

‘But soon,’ he cried with sad and solemn enthusiasm, ‘I shall die, and what I now feel be no longer felt. Soon these burning miseries will be extinct. I shall ascend my funeral pile triumphantly and exult in the agony of the torturing flames. The light of that conflagration will fade away; my ashes will be swept into the sea by the winds. My spirit will sleep in peace, or if it thinks, it will not surely think thus. Farewell.’
“但是很快，”他带着悲伤而庄严的热情喊道，“我就会死去，而我现在所感受到的一切将不再被感受到。”很快这些燃烧的痛苦就会消失。我将胜利地登上我的葬礼堆，并在折磨火焰的痛苦中欢欣鼓舞。那场大火的光芒将会消失；我的骨灰将被风卷入大海。我的灵魂会安然入睡，或者即使它思考，也一定不会这样思考。告别。'

He sprang from the cabin window as he said this, upon the ice raft which lay close to the vessel. He was soon borne away by the waves and lost in darkness and distance.
说着，他从船舱窗户跳到靠近船只的冰筏上。他很快就被海浪冲走，迷失在黑暗和远方中。