
Tess of the d’Urbervilles
德伯家的苔丝

By Thomas Hardy
托马斯·哈代

Phase the First: The Maiden
第一阶段：少女

I

On an evening in the latter part of May a middle-aged man was walking homeward from Shaston to the village of Marlott, in the adjoining Vale of Blakemore, or Blackmoor. The pair of legs that carried him were rickety, and there was a bias in his gait which inclined him somewhat to the left of a straight line. He occasionally gave a smart nod, as if in confirmation of some opinion, though he was not thinking of anything in particular. An empty egg-basket was slung upon his arm, the nap of his hat was ruffled, a patch being quite worn away at its brim where his thumb came in taking it off. Presently he was met by an elderly parson astride on a gray mare, who, as he rode, hummed a wandering tune.
五月下旬的一个晚上，一名中年男子从沙斯顿步行回家，前往毗邻布莱克莫尔谷或布莱克莫尔的马洛特村。支撑着他的双腿摇摇晃晃，步态有些偏斜，使他有点向直线左侧倾斜。他偶尔会乖巧地点点头，仿佛在确认某种观点，尽管他并没有在想什么特别的事情。他手臂上挎着一个空鸡蛋篮，帽子的绒毛皱了起来，脱帽时大拇指接触到的帽檐处已经磨掉了一块补丁。不久，一位年迈的牧师骑着一匹灰色母马迎接了他，他一边骑着，一边哼着一首流浪的曲调。

‘Good night t’ee,’ said the man with the basket.
“晚安，”提着篮子的人说。

‘Good night, Sir John,’ said the parson.
“晚安，约翰爵士，”牧师说。

The pedestrian, after another pace or two, halted, and turned round.
行人又走了一两步，停了下来，转过身来。

‘Now, sir, begging your pardon; we met last market-day on this road about this time, and I said ‘Good night,’ and you made reply ‘Good night, Sir John,’ as now.’
“现在，先生，请您原谅；我们大约在这个时候在这条路上遇到了最后一个集市日，我说“晚安”，你回答“晚安，约翰爵士”，就像现在一样。

‘I did,’ said the parson.
“我做到了，”牧师说。

‘And once before that—near a month ago.’
“在那之前也有过一次——大约一个月前。”

‘I may have.’
'我可能有。'

‘Then what might your meaning be in calling me ‘Sir John’ these different times, when I be plain Jack Durbeyfield, the haggler?’
“那么，当我只是讨价还价的普通杰克·德北菲尔德时，你在不同的时候称呼我‘约翰爵士’可能是什么意思呢？”

The parson rode a step or two nearer.
牧师骑近了一两步。

‘It was only my whim,’ he said; and, after a moment’s hesitation: ‘It was on account of a discovery I made some little time ago, whilst I was hunting up pedigrees for the new county history. I am Parson Tringham, the antiquary, of Stagfoot Lane. Don’t you really know, Durbeyfield, that you are the lineal representative of the ancient and knightly family of the d’Urbervilles, who derive their descent from Sir Pagan d’Urberville, that renowned knight who came from Normandy with William the Conqueror, as appears by Battle Abbey Roll?’
“这只是我的一时兴起，”他说。 ”然后，犹豫片刻后说道：“这是因为不久前我在为新的县历史寻找谱系时的一个发现。我是鹿脚巷的古董商帕森·特林厄姆。难道你真的不知道吗，德北菲尔德，你是德伯维尔家族古老骑士家族的直系代表，这个家族的后裔是帕根·德伯维尔爵士，那位与征服者威廉一起从诺曼底来到的著名骑士，正如《Battle Abbey Roll》所出现的那样？

‘Never heard it before, sir!’
“以前从没听说过，先生！”

‘Well it’s true. Throw up your chin a moment, so that I may catch the profile of your face better. Yes, that’s the d’Urberville nose and chin—a little debased. Your ancestor was one of the twelve knights who assisted the Lord of Estremavilla in Normandy in his conquest of Glamorganshire. Branches of your family held manors over all this part of England; their names appear in the Pipe Rolls in the time of King Stephen. In the reign of King John one of them was rich enough to give a manor to the Knights Hospitallers; and in Edward the Second’s time your forefather Brian was summoned to Westminster to attend the great Council there. You declined a little in Oliver Cromwell’s time, but to no serious extent, and in Charles the Second’s reign you were made Knights of the Royal Oak for your loyalty. Aye, there have been generations of Sir Johns among you, and if knighthood were hereditary, like a baronetcy, as it practically was in old times, when men were knighted from father to son, you would be Sir John now.’
‘嗯，这是真的。把你的下巴抬起来一会儿，这样我可以更好地捕捉到你的脸部轮廓。是的，这就是德伯维尔的鼻子和下巴——有点卑鄙。你的祖先是协助诺曼底埃斯特雷马维拉领主征服格拉摩根郡的十二骑士之一。你家族的各个分支在英格兰的整个地区都拥有庄园；他们的名字出现在史蒂芬国王时代的《烟斗卷》中。在约翰国王统治时期，其中一位富有的人向医院骑士团赠送了一座庄园。在爱德华二世时代，你的祖先布赖恩被召集到威斯敏斯特参加那里的大公会议。在奥利弗·克伦威尔（Oliver Cromwell）时代，您的地位有所下降，但程度并不严重，而在查理二世（Charles the Second）统治时期，您因忠诚而被封为皇家橡树骑士。是的，你们中间有几代约翰爵士，如果爵士头衔是世袭的，就像过去的男爵爵位一样，人们从父亲到儿子都被封为爵士，那么你现在就是约翰爵士了。

‘Ye don’t say so!’
“你别这么说！”

‘In short,’ concluded the parson, decisively smacking his leg with his switch, ‘there’s hardly such another family in England.’
“简而言之，”牧师果断地用开关敲打着腿，总结道，“英格兰几乎找不到这样的家庭了。”

‘Daze my eyes, and isn’t there?’ said Durbeyfield. ‘And here have I been knocking about, year after year, from pillar to post, as if I was no more than the commonest feller in the parish... And how long hev this news about me been knowed, Pa’son Tringham?’
“让我眼花缭乱，不是吗？”德北菲尔德说。 “我就在这里，年复一年，从一个柱子到另一个柱子，仿佛我不过是教区里最普通的人……帕森·特林厄姆，这个关于我的消息被人知道多久了？” '

The clergyman explained that, as far as he was aware, it had quite died out of knowledge, and could hardly be said to be known at all. His own investigations had begun on a day in the preceding spring when, having been engaged in tracing the vicissitudes of the d’Urberville family, he had observed Durbeyfield’s name on his waggon, and had thereupon been led to make inquiries about his father and grandfather till he had no doubt on the subject.
牧师解释说，据他所知，它已经从知识中消失了，几乎不能说是为人所知。他自己的调查是在去年春天的一天开始的，当时他正在追踪德伯维尔家族的变迁，他在马车上发现了德伯菲尔德的名字，于是被引导去询问他的父亲和祖父。直到他对这个问题没有任何疑问为止。

‘At first I resolved not to disturb you with such a useless piece of information,’ said he. ‘However, our impulses are too strong for our judgement sometimes. I thought you might perhaps know something of it all the while.’
“一开始我决定不用这么无用的信息来打扰你，”他说。 “然而，有时我们的冲动太强烈，以至于无法做出判断。我想你可能一直都知道一些事情。

‘Well, I have heard once or twice, ‘tis true, that my family had seen better days afore they came to Blackmoor. But I took no notice o’t, thinking it to mean that we had once kept two horses where we now keep only one. I’ve got a wold silver spoon, and a wold graven seal at home, too; but, Lord, what’s a spoon and seal? ... And to think that I and these noble d’Urbervilles were one flesh all the time. ‘Twas said that my gr’t-granfer had secrets, and didn’t care to talk of where he came from... And where do we raise our smoke, now, parson, if I may make so bold; I mean, where do we d’Urbervilles live?’
“嗯，我听说过一两次，这是真的，我的家人在来到布莱克莫尔之前过着更好的日子。但我没有在意，以为这意味着我们曾经养过两匹马，现在只养了一匹。我家里还有一把老银勺子，还有一个老印章；但是，主啊，勺子和密封件是什么？ ……想到我和这些高贵的德伯维尔家族一直是一体的。 “据说我的祖父有秘密，并且不愿意谈论他来自哪里……现在，牧师，如果我可以这么大胆的话，我们该在哪里抽烟呢？”我是说，我们德伯家住在哪里？

‘You don’t live anywhere. You are extinct—as a county family.’
‘你哪儿也不住。作为一个郡县家庭，你已经灭绝了。”

‘That’s bad.’
'那很糟。'

‘Yes—what the mendacious family chronicles call extinct in the male line—that is, gone down—gone under.’
“是的——那些虚伪的家族编年史所说的男性血统已经灭绝了——也就是说，已经没落了——没落了。”

‘Then where do we lie?’
“那我们该躺在哪里呢？”

‘At Kingsbere-sub-Greenhill: rows and rows of you in your vaults, with your effigies under Purbeck-marble canopies.’
“在格林希尔下的金斯贝尔：你们的金库里一排排，你们的肖像在普贝克大理石檐篷下。”

‘And where be our family mansions and estates?’
“我们的家族宅邸和庄园在哪里？”

‘You haven’t any.’
“你没有。”

‘Oh? No lands neither?’
'哦？也没有土地吗？

‘None; though you once had ‘em in abundance, as I said, for you family consisted of numerous branches. In this county there was a seat of yours at Kingsbere, and another at Sherton, and another in Millpond, and another at Lullstead, and another at Wellbridge.’
'没有任何;尽管正如我所说，你曾经拥有很多，因为你的家庭由无数分支组成。在这个县里，你在金斯贝尔有一个席位，在谢尔顿有一个席位，在米尔庞德有一个席位，在纳尔斯特德有一个席位，在威尔布里奇还有一个席位。

‘And shall we ever come into our own again?’
“我们还能恢复正常吗？”

‘Ah—that I can’t tell!’
“啊——我不知道！”

‘And what had I better do about it, sir?’ asked Durbeyfield, after a pause.
“那我该怎么办呢，先生？”德北菲尔德停顿了一下后问道。

‘Oh—nothing, nothing; except chasten yourself with the thought of ‘how are the mighty fallen.’ It is a fact of some interest to the local historian and genealogist, nothing more. There are several families among the cottagers of this county of almost equal lustre. Good night.’
‘哦——没什么，没什么；除了用“强者是如何堕落的”这样的想法来磨炼自己。这是当地历史学家和家谱学家感兴趣的事实，仅此而已。这个县的佃农中有几个家庭几乎同样光彩照人。晚安。'

‘But you’ll turn back and have a quart of beer wi’ me on the strength o’t, Pa’son Tringham? There’s a very pretty brew in tap at The Pure Drop—though, to be sure, not so good as at Rolliver’s.’
“但是你会回去和我一起喝一夸脱啤酒吗，帕森·特林厄姆？” The Pure Drop 有一种非常漂亮的桶装啤酒，不过，可以肯定的是，不如 Rolliver’s 的好。

‘No, thank you—not this evening, Durbeyfield. You’ve had enough already.’ Concluding thus, the parson rode on his way, with doubts as to his discretion in retailing this curious bit of lore.
“不，谢谢你——今晚不行，德北菲尔德。你已经受够了。” 牧师这样总结道，就骑马上路了，他对自己传播这一奇怪知识的判断力表示怀疑。

When he was gone, Durbeyfield walked a few steps in a profound reverie, and then sat down upon the grassy bank by the roadside, depositing his basket before him. In a few minutes a youth appeared in the distance, walking in the same direction as that which had been pursued by Durbeyfield. The latter, on seeing him, held up his hand, and the lad quickened his pace and came near.
等他走后，德北菲尔德若有所思地走了几步，然后坐在路边的草地上，把篮子放在面前。几分钟后，远处出现了一个青年，正朝着德北菲尔德追击的方向走去。后者一见他，便举起了手，那小伙子加快了脚步，走了过来。

‘Boy, take up that basket! I want ‘ee to go on an errand for me.’
‘小伙子，拿起那个篮子！我想要“ee 帮我出差”。

The lath-like stripling frowned. ‘Who be you, then, John Durbeyfield, to order me about and call me ‘boy’? You know my name as well as I know yours!’
板条般的小伙子皱起眉头。 “那么，约翰·德北菲尔德，你是谁，竟然对我发号施令，还叫我‘孩子’？”你知道我的名字，就像我知道你的名字一样！

‘Do you, do you? That’s the secret—that’s the secret! Now obey my orders, and take the message I’m going to charge ‘ee wi’... Well, Fred, I don’t mind telling you that the secret is that I’m one of a noble race—it has been just found out by me this present afternoon, P.M.’ And as he made the announcement, Durbeyfield, declining from his sitting position, luxuriously stretched himself out upon the bank among the daisies.
‘你是吗？你是吗？这就是秘密——这就是秘密！现在听从我的命令，并接受我要向“ee wi”收取的信息……好吧，弗雷德，我不介意告诉你，秘密是我是一个高贵的种族之一——它一直是下午，我今天下午才知道。”当他宣布这一消息时，德北菲尔德从座位上退下来，豪华地躺在河岸上的雏菊丛中。

The lad stood before Durbeyfield, and contemplated his length from crown to toe.
小伙子站在德北菲尔德面前，审视着自己从头到脚的长度。

‘Sir John d’Urberville—that’s who I am,’ continued the prostrate man. ‘That is if knights were baronets—which they be. ‘Tis recorded in history all about me. Dost know of such a place, lad, as Kingsbere-sub-Greenhill?’
“约翰·德伯维尔爵士——这就是我，”倒在地上的男人继续说道。 “也就是说，如果骑士是从男爵的话——他们就是这样。关于我的一切都被记录在历史中。小伙子，你知道格林希尔下游金斯贝尔这样一个地方吗？

‘Ees. I’ve been there to Greenhill Fair.’
‘哎呀。我去过格林希尔博览会。

‘Well, under the church of that city there lie—‘
“嗯，在那个城市的教堂下面躺着——”

‘‘Tisn’t a city, the place I mean; leastwise ‘twaddn’ when I was there—‘twas a little one-eyed, blinking sort o’ place.’
“我指的不是一座城市；最不明智的是，当我在那儿时，‘twaddn’——‘那是一个单眼、眨眼的地方。’

‘Never you mind the place, boy, that’s not the question before us. Under the church of that there parish lie my ancestors—hundreds of ‘em—in coats of mail and jewels, in gr’t lead coffins weighing tons and tons. There’s not a man in the county o’ South-Wessex that’s got grander and nobler skillentons in his family than I.’
“别介意这个地方，孩子，这不是我们面前的问题。在那个教区的教堂下，躺着我的数百位祖先，他们穿着铠甲和珠宝，躺在重达数吨的铅制棺材里。在南威塞克斯郡，没有一个人的家族拥有比我更伟大、更高贵的技能。”

‘Oh?’
'哦？'

‘Now take up that basket, and goo on to Marlott, and when you’ve come to The Pure Drop Inn, tell ‘em to send a horse and carriage to me immed’ately, to carry me hwome. And in the bottom o’ the carriage they be to put a noggin o’ rum in a small bottle, and chalk it up to my account. And when you’ve done that goo on to my house with the basket, and tell my wife to put away that washing, because she needn’t finish it, and wait till I come hwome, as I’ve news to tell her.’
“现在，拿起那个篮子，前往马洛特，当你到达纯粹的下降旅馆时，告诉他们立即给我派一匹马和一辆马车，载我回家。在车厢底部，他们会在一个小瓶子里放一瓶朗姆酒，然后记在我的账上。当你完成这件事后，就拿着篮子到我家去，告诉我妻子把洗好的衣服收起来，因为她不需要洗完，等我回来，因为我有消息要告诉她。 '

As the lad stood in a dubious attitude, Durbeyfield put his hand in his pocket, and produced a shilling, one of the chronically few that he possessed.
当这个小伙子以一种可疑的态度站着时，德北菲尔德把手伸进口袋，掏出一先令，这是他长期以来所拥有的少数先令之一。

‘Here’s for your labour, lad.’
“这是你的劳动成果，小伙子。”

This made a difference in the young man’s estimate of the position.
这使得年轻人对这个位置的估计发生了变化。

‘Yes, Sir John. Thank ‘ee. Anything else I can do for ‘ee, Sir John?’
“是的，约翰爵士。谢谢’ee。我还能为“呃，约翰爵士”做些什么吗？

‘Tell ‘em at hwome that I should like for supper,—well, lamb’s fry if they can get it; and if they can’t, black-pot; and if they can’t get that, well chitterlings will do.’
“告诉他们我想吃晚饭——好吧，炸羊肉，如果他们能买到的话；”如果他们做不到，就黑锅；如果他们做不到这一点，那么猪肠也可以。

‘Yes, Sir John.’
“是的，约翰爵士。”

The boy took up the basket, and as he set out the notes of a brass band were heard from the direction of the village.
男孩拿起篮子，当他把篮子拿出来的时候，村子的方向传来了铜管乐队的演奏声。

‘What’s that?’ said Durbeyfield. ‘Not on account o’ I?’
“那是什么？”德北菲尔德问道。 “不是因为我吗？”

‘‘Tis the women’s club-walking, Sir John. Why, your da’ter is one o’ the members.’
“这是女子俱乐部竞走，约翰爵士。为什么，你的女儿是成员之一。

‘To be sure—I’d quite forgot it in my thoughts of greater things! Well, vamp on to Marlott, will ye, and order that carriage, and maybe I’ll drive round and inspect the club.’
“当然——我在思考更伟大的事情时完全忘记了它！”好吧，去马洛特，好吗？订购那辆马车，也许我会开车去看看俱乐部。

The lad departed, and Durbeyfield lay waiting on the grass and daisies in the evening sun. Not a soul passed that way for a long while, and the faint notes of the band were the only human sounds audible within the rim of blue hills.
小伙子走了，德北菲尔德躺在夕阳下的草地和雏菊上等待着。很长一段时间没有人经过那条路，乐队微弱的音符是蓝色山丘边缘唯一能听到的人类声音。

II

The village of Marlott lay amid the north-eastern undulations of the beautiful Vale of Blakemore, or Blackmoor, aforesaid, an engirdled and secluded region, for the most part untrodden as yet by tourist or landscape-painter, though within a four hours’ journey from London.
马洛特村坐落在美丽的布莱克莫尔谷（或前面所说的布莱克莫尔）东北部的起伏之中，这是一个被包围而僻静的地区，尽管在四个小时的路程内，但大部分地区尚未被游客或风景画家踏足过。从伦敦。

It is a vale whose acquaintance is best made by viewing it from the summits of the hills that surround it—except perhaps during the droughts of summer. An unguided ramble into its recesses in bad weather is apt to engender dissatisfaction with its narrow, tortuous, and miry ways.
要了解这个山谷，最好的方式是从周围的山顶上观察它——也许除了夏季干旱的时候。在恶劣的天气下，在没有向导的情况下漫步进入它的凹处，很容易引起人们对它狭窄、曲折和泥泞的道路的不满。

This fertile and sheltered tract of country, in which the fields are never brown and the springs never dry, is bounded on the south by the bold chalk ridge that embraces the prominences of Hambledon Hill, Bulbarrow, Nettlecombe-Tout, Dogbury, High Stoy, and Bubb Down. The traveller from the coast, who, after plodding northward for a score of miles over calcareous downs and corn-lands, suddenly reaches the verge of one of these escarpments, is surprised and delighted to behold, extended like a map beneath him, a country differing absolutely from that which he has passed through. Behind him the hills are open, the sun blazes down upon fields so large as to give an unenclosed character to the landscape, the lanes are white, the hedges low and plashed, the atmosphere colourless. Here, in the valley, the world seems to be constructed upon a smaller and more delicate scale; the fields are mere paddocks, so reduced that from this height their hedgerows appear a network of dark green threads overspreading the paler green of the grass. The atmosphere beneath is languorous, and is so tinged with azure that what artists call the middle distance partakes also of that hue, while the horizon beyond is of the deepest ultramarine. Arable lands are few and limited; with but slight exceptions the prospect is a broad rich mass of grass and trees, mantling minor hills and dales within the major. Such is the Vale of Blackmoor.
这片肥沃、受庇护的乡村，田野永远不会枯黄，泉水永远不会干涸，南面以粗壮的白垩山脊为界，山脊包括汉布尔登山、布尔巴罗、内特尔科姆-图特、多格伯里、海斯托伊、和巴布唐。来自海岸的旅行者，在石灰质丘陵和玉米地上艰难地向北行驶了二十英里后，突然到达其中一个悬崖的边缘，他会惊讶又高兴地看到，在他脚下，像一张地图一样延伸出一个国家与他所经历的完全不同。在他身后，山峦开阔，阳光照耀在广阔的田野上，给大地赋予了一种开放的特征，小巷是白色的，树篱低矮而茂密，气氛毫无色彩。在这里，在山谷里，世界似乎是建立在一个更小、更微妙的尺度上的。田野只是围场，面积如此之小，从这个高度看，树篱就像是一张深绿色的线网，覆盖在淡绿色的草地上。下面的气氛是慵懒的，并带有蔚蓝的色彩，以至于艺术家所说的中距离也有这种色调，而远处的地平线则是最深的群青色。耕地少且有限；除了极少数例外，这里的前景是一片广阔、茂盛的草丛和树木，覆盖着大片土地上的小丘陵和山谷。这就是布莱克莫尔谷。

The district is of historic, no less than of topographical interest. The Vale was known in former times as the Forest of White Hart, from a curious legend of King Henry III’s reign, in which the killing by a certain Thomas de la Lynd of a beautiful white hart which the king had run down and spared, was made the occasion of a heavy fine. In those days, and till comparatively recent times, the country was densely wooded. Even now, traces of its earlier condition are to be found in the old oak copses and irregular belts of timber that yet survive upon its slopes, and the hollow-trunked trees that shade so many of its pastures.
该地区不仅具有历史意义，而且具有地形意义。山谷在过去被称为白鹿森林，源于亨利三世国王统治时期的一个奇怪的传说，其中一个名叫托马斯·德·拉·林德的人杀死了一只美丽的白鹿，国王跑倒了它并幸免于难。作出重罚之际。在那些日子里，直到最近，这个国家树木茂密。即使是现在，在古老的橡树林和山坡上仍然存在的不规则木材带，以及为许多牧场遮荫的空心树干中，仍能找到其早期状况的痕迹。

The forests have departed, but some old customs of their shades remain. Many, however, linger only in a metamorphosed or disguised form. The May-Day dance, for instance, was to be discerned on the afternoon under notice, in the guise of the club revel, or ‘club-walking,’ as it was there called.
森林已经消失，但一些古老的习俗仍然存在。然而，许多人只是以变形或伪装的形式徘徊。例如，五一劳动节的舞蹈将在下午以俱乐部狂欢的形式出现，人们称之为“俱乐部散步”。

It was an interesting event to the younger inhabitants of Marlott, though its real interest was not observed by the participators in the ceremony. Its singularity lay less in the retention of a custom of walking in procession and dancing on each anniversary than in the members being solely women. In men’s clubs such celebrations were, though expiring, less uncommon; but either the natural shyness of the softer sex, or a sarcastic attitude on the part of male relatives, had denuded such women’s clubs as remained (if any other did) or this their glory and consummation. The club of Marlott alone lived to uphold the local Cerealia. It had walked for hundreds of years, if not as benefit-club, as votive sisterhood of some sort; and it walked still.
对于马洛特的年轻居民来说，这是一个有趣的活动，尽管仪式的参与者并没有注意到它真正的兴趣。它的独特之处不在于保留了每年周年纪念日游行和跳舞的习俗，而在于成员全部都是女性。在男子俱乐部中，这样的庆祝活动虽然已经过时，但并不罕见。但要么是软性性别的天然害羞，要么是男性亲属的讽刺态度，剥夺了这些妇女俱乐部的残存（如果有其他俱乐部的话），或者说它们的荣耀和完美。只有马洛特俱乐部才能维护当地的塞雷利亚。它已经存在了数百年，即使不是作为福利俱乐部，也是作为某种自愿的姐妹会。它一动不动地走着。

The banded ones were all dressed in white gowns—a gay survival from Old Style days, when cheerfulness and May-time were synonyms—days before the habit of taking long views had reduced emotions to a monotonous average. Their first exhibition of themselves was in a processional march of two and two round the parish. Ideal and real clashed slightly as the sun lit up their figures against the green hedges and creeper-laced house-fronts; for, though the whole troop wore white garments, no two whites were alike among them. Some approached pure blanching; some had a bluish pallor; some worn by the older characters (which had possibly lain by folded for many a year) inclined to a cadaverous tint, and to a Georgian style.
那些系着带子的人都穿着白色长袍——这是旧式时代的快乐残余，当时快乐和五月时光是同义词——几天前，长期观察的习惯已经将情绪降低到单调的平均水平。他们的第一次自我展示是在教区周围两人两人的游行中。当阳光将他们的身影映照在绿色的树篱和爬满爬山虎的房屋正面时，理想与现实发生了轻微的冲突。因为，虽然全队都穿着白色的衣服，但他们当中没有两个白人是相同的。有些接近纯粹的热烫；有些则接近纯热烫。有些呈蓝色苍白；有些则呈淡蓝色。有些是较老的角色（可能已折叠多年）所穿的，倾向于苍白的色调和乔治亚风格。

In addition to the distinction of a white frock, every woman and girl carried in her right hand a peeled willow wand, and in her left a bunch of white flowers. The peeling of the former, and the selection of the latter, had been an operation of personal care.
除了白色连衣裙的区别外，每个妇女和女孩的右手都拿着一根剥了皮的柳木杖，左手拿着一束白花。前者的剥离和后者的选择，都是个人护理的操作。

There were a few middle-aged and even elderly women in the train, their silver-wiry hair and wrinkled faces, scourged by time and trouble, having almost a grotesque, certainly a pathetic, appearance in such a jaunty situation. In a true view, perhaps, there was more to be gathered and told of each anxious and experienced one, to whom the years were drawing nigh when she should say, ‘I have no pleasure in them,’ than of her juvenile comrades. But let the elder be passed over here for those under whose bodices the life throbbed quick and warm.
火车上有几个中年甚至上了年纪的妇女，她们银丝的头发和满是皱纹的脸庞，饱受岁月和烦恼的摧残，在如此欢快的气氛中显得近乎怪诞，甚至可悲。从真正的角度来看，也许，对于每一个焦虑而有经验的人来说，当她应该说“我对他们没有任何乐趣”时，他们比她的少年同志有更多的东西可以收集和讲述。但是，对于那些紧身衣下的生命快速而温暖地跳动的人来说，让长者在这里被忽略。

The young girls formed, indeed, the majority of the band, and their heads of luxuriant hair reflected in the sunshine every tone of gold, and black, and brown. Some had beautiful eyes, others a beautiful nose, others a beautiful mouth and figure: few, if any, had all. A difficulty of arranging their lips in this crude exposure to public scrutiny, an inability to balance their heads, and to dissociate self-consciousness from their features, was apparent in them, and showed that they were genuine country girls, unaccustomed to many eyes.
事实上，年轻女孩们构成了乐队的大部分，她们一头茂密的头发在阳光下反射出金色、黑色和棕色的各种色调。有些人有美丽的眼睛，有些人有美丽的鼻子，有些人有美丽的嘴巴和身材：很少有人（如果有的话）拥有这一切。在这种粗暴的公众审视下，她们很难调整自己的嘴唇，无法平衡头部，也无法将自我意识与容貌分离，这在她们身上表现得很明显，这表明她们是真正的乡村女孩，不习惯很多人的目光。

And as each and all of them were warmed without by the sun, so each had a private little sun for her soul to bask in; some dream, some affection, some hobby, at least some remote and distant hope which, though perhaps starving to nothing, still lived on, as hopes will. They were all cheerful, and many of them merry.
正如他们每个人都在没有阳光的照射下感到温暖一样，每个人都有一个私人的小太阳可供她的灵魂沐浴；一些梦想，一些感情，一些爱好，至少还有一些遥远而遥远的希望，尽管可能会一无所获，但仍然存在，就像希望一样。他们都很高兴，而且很多人都很快乐。

They came round by The Pure Drop Inn, and were turning out of the high road to pass through a wicket-gate into the meadows, when one of the women said—
他们绕过纯粹的下降旅馆，正从大路拐出，穿过一扇小门进入草地，这时其中一个女人说——

‘The Load-a-Lord! Why, Tess Durbeyfield, if there isn’t thy father riding hwome in a carriage!’
‘负载主！哎呀，苔丝·德北菲尔德，如果不是你父亲骑着马车回家的话！

A young member of the band turned her head at the exclamation. She was a fine and handsome girl—not handsomer than some others, possibly—but her mobile peony mouth and large innocent eyes added eloquence to colour and shape. She wore a red ribbon in her hair, and was the only one of the white company who could boast of such a pronounced adornment. As she looked round Durbeyfield was seen moving along the road in a chaise belonging to The Pure Drop, driven by a frizzle-headed brawny damsel with her gown-sleeves rolled above her elbows. This was the cheerful servant of that establishment, who, in her part of factotum, turned groom and ostler at times. Durbeyfield, leaning back, and with his eyes closed luxuriously, was waving his hand above his head, and singing in a slow recitative—
乐队中的一名年轻成员听到这声惊呼转过头来。她是一个美丽而英俊的女孩——可能并不比其他一些人更英俊——但她那张牡丹般的小嘴和无辜的大眼睛为色彩和形状增添了雄辩的色彩。她的头发上系着一条红丝带，是白人连队中唯一一个可以夸耀如此引人注目的装饰的人。当她环顾四周时，看到德北菲尔德坐着一辆属于 The Pure Drop 的马车沿着道路行驶，车上坐着一位卷发的壮汉，长袍的袖子卷到了肘部以上。这是该机构的一位开朗的仆人，在她的杂工角色中，她有时会变成马夫和马夫。德北菲尔德靠在椅背上，豪华地闭上眼睛，把手举过头顶，缓慢地唱着朗诵曲——

‘I’ve-got-a-gr’t-family-vault-at-Kingsbere—and knighted-forefathers-in-lead-coffins-there!’
“我在金斯贝尔有一个非常大的家庭金库——那里还有封爵的祖先的铅棺！”

The clubbists tittered, except the girl called Tess—in whom a slow heat seemed to rise at the sense that her father was making himself foolish in their eyes.
俱乐部成员们窃笑起来，除了那个叫苔丝的女孩——她感觉自己的父亲在他们眼里让自己变得愚蠢，心中似乎慢慢升起了一股热潮。

‘He’s tired, that’s all,’ she said hastily, ‘and he has got a lift home, because our own horse has to rest to-day.’
“他累了，仅此而已，”她急忙说道，“他搭便车回家了，因为我们自己的马今天必须休息。”

‘Bless thy simplicity, Tess,’ said her companions. ‘He’s got his market-nitch. Haw-haw!’
“苔丝，祝福你的单纯，”她的同伴们说。 “他有自己的市场优势。哈哈！’

‘Look here; I won’t walk another inch with you, if you say any jokes about him!’ Tess cried, and the colour upon her cheeks spread over her face and neck. In a moment her eyes grew moist, and her glance drooped to the ground. Perceiving that they had really pained her they said no more, and order again prevailed. Tess’s pride would not allow her to turn her head again, to learn what her father’s meaning was, if he had any; and thus she moved on with the whole body to the enclosure where there was to be dancing on the green. By the time the spot was reached she has recovered her equanimity, and tapped her neighbour with her wand and talked as usual.
'看这里;如果你再开他的玩笑，我就不会再跟你走一英寸了！”苔丝喊道，脸颊上的血色蔓延到了她的脸和脖子上。刹那间，她的眼眶湿润了，目光垂到了地上。意识到他们真的让她很痛苦，他们不再多说什么，秩序又恢复了。苔丝的自尊不允许她再回头去了解她父亲的意思是什么（如果他有的话）。就这样，她带着整个身体继续前进，来到了要在果岭上跳舞的围场。当到达该地点时，她已经恢复了平静，用魔杖敲击她的邻居，并像往常一样说话。

Tess Durbeyfield at this time of her life was a mere vessel of emotion untinctured by experience. The dialect was on her tongue to some extent, despite the village school: the characteristic intonation of that dialect for this district being the voicing approximately rendered by the syllable UR, probably as rich an utterance as any to be found in human speech. The pouted-up deep red mouth to which this syllable was native had hardly as yet settled into its definite shape, and her lower lip had a way of thrusting the middle of her top one upward, when they closed together after a word.
苔丝·德北菲尔德（Tess Durbeyfield）在她生命的这个阶段只是一个没有经历过经验的情感容器。尽管在乡村学校里，她的舌头上还是有某种程度的方言：该地区方言的特有语调大约是由音节 UR 发出的，可能与人类语言中的任何话语一样丰富。这个音节所特有的撅起的深红色嘴巴还没有定型，当她说完一个字之后合拢在一起时，她的下唇有一种将上唇中部向上推的方式。

Phases of her childhood lurked in her aspect still. As she walked along to-day, for all her bouncing handsome womanliness, you could sometimes see her twelfth year in her cheeks, or her ninth sparkling from her eyes; and even her fifth would flit over the curves of her mouth now and then.
她的脸上还残留着童年的痕迹。今天，当她走在路上时，尽管她充满活力、英俊的女性气质，但有时你可以在她的脸颊上看到她十二岁的样子，或者从她眼睛里闪闪发光的九岁的样子；甚至她的第五个也会时不时地掠过她的嘴角。

Yet few knew, and still fewer considered this. A small minority, mainly strangers, would look long at her in casually passing by, and grow momentarily fascinated by her freshness, and wonder if they would ever see her again: but to almost everybody she was a fine and picturesque country girl, and no more.
然而很少有人知道，更没有人考虑过这一点。少数人，主要是陌生人，会在不经意路过的时候久久地注视着她，一时被她的清新所吸引，想知道是否还能再见到她：但对几乎每个人来说，她都是一个美丽如画的乡村女孩，更多的。

Nothing was seen or heard further of Durbeyfield in his triumphal chariot under the conduct of the ostleress, and the club having entered the allotted space, dancing began. As there were no men in the company, the girls danced at first with each other, but when the hour for the close of labour drew on, the masculine inhabitants of the village, together with other idlers and pedestrians, gathered round the spot, and appeared inclined to negotiate for a partner.
在女马夫的指挥下，德北菲尔德在凯旋战车上再也没有看到或听到任何消息，俱乐部进入了指定的空间，舞蹈开始了。由于队伍中没有男人，女孩们一开始互相跳舞，但当劳动结束的时间临近时，村里的男性居民与其他闲人和行人一起聚集在现场，似乎倾向于为合作伙伴进行谈判。

Among these on-lookers were three young men of a superior class, carrying small knapsacks strapped to their shoulders, and stout sticks in their hands. Their general likeness to each other, and their consecutive ages, would almost have suggested that they might be, what in fact they were, brothers. The eldest wore the white tie, high waistcoat, and thin-brimmed hat of the regulation curate; the second was the normal undergraduate; the appearance of the third and youngest would hardly have been sufficient to characterize him; there was an uncribbed, uncabined aspect in his eyes and attire, implying that he had hardly as yet found the entrance to his professional groove. That he was a desultory tentative student of something and everything might only have been predicted of him.
围观的人中，有三个上流青年，肩上背着小背包，手里拿着粗棍。他们彼此的普遍相似性，以及他们连续的年龄，几乎表明他们可能是，事实上他们是兄弟。老大打着白领带，穿着高背心，戴着细边牧师帽。二是普通本科生；第三个也是最小的一个的外表不足以描述他的特征。他的眼睛和衣着都流露出一种不拘一格、不拘一格的样子，这意味着他还没有找到进入职业最佳状态的入口。他是一个断断续续的尝试性学生，对某些事情和一切事情可能只能从他身上预料到。

These three brethren told casual acquaintance that they were spending their Whitsun holidays in a walking tour through the Vale of Blackmoor, their course being south-westerly from the town of Shaston on the north-east.
这三位弟兄告诉偶然认识的人，他们正在徒步穿越布莱克莫尔谷来度过圣灵降临节假期，他们的路线是从东北部的沙斯顿镇向西南走。

They leant over the gate by the highway, and inquired as to the meaning of the dance and the white-frocked maids. The two elder of the brothers were plainly not intending to linger more than a moment, but the spectacle of a bevy of girls dancing without male partners seemed to amuse the third, and make him in no hurry to move on. He unstrapped his knapsack, put it, with his stick, on the hedge-bank, and opened the gate.
他们俯身在公路旁的大门上，询问舞蹈和白衣侍女的含义。两个哥哥显然不想多逗留，但一群女孩在没有男舞伴的情况下跳舞的景象似乎把老三逗乐了，让他不急着继续前进。他解开背包，用拐杖把它放在树篱上，然后打开了大门。

‘What are you going to do, Angel?’ asked the eldest.
“你要做什么，天使？”最大的问道。

‘I am inclined to go and have a fling with them. Why not all of us—just for a minute or two—it will not detain us long?’
“我很想去和他们玩一玩。为什么不是我们所有人——哪怕只是一两分钟——它不会让我们耽搁太久？

‘No—no; nonsense!’ said the first. ‘Dancing in public with a troop of country hoydens—suppose we should be seen! Come along, or it will be dark before we get to Stourcastle, and there’s no place we can sleep at nearer than that; besides, we must get through another chapter of A Counterblast to Agnosticism before we turn in, now I have taken the trouble to bring the book.’
'不，不;胡说八道！”第一个说。 “在公共场合与一群乡下人跳舞——假设我们应该被看到！”快走吧，不然我们还没到斯托卡斯尔天就黑了，没有比那更近的地方可以睡觉了；另外，我们必须先读完《反不可知论》的另一章才能回去，现在我不厌其烦地把这本书带来了。

‘All right—I’ll overtake you and Cuthbert in five minutes; don’t stop; I give my word that I will, Felix.’
“好吧——我会在五分钟内追上你和卡斯伯特；不要停下来；我发誓我会的，菲利克斯。

The two elder reluctantly left him and walked on, taking their brother’s knapsack to relieve him in following, and the youngest entered the field.
两个长辈依依不舍地离开了他，继续前行，背着弟弟的背包，接替他跟在后面，最小的也走进了田野。

‘This is a thousand pities,’ he said gallantly, to two or three of the girls nearest him, as soon as there was a pause in the dance. ‘Where are your partners, my dears?’
“这真是一千个遗憾，”舞蹈一暂停，他就对离他最近的两三个女孩殷勤地说。 “亲爱的，你的伙伴在哪里？”

‘They’ve not left off work yet,’ answered one of the boldest. ‘They’ll be here by and by. Till then, will you be one, sir?’
“他们还没有下班。”其中一位最大胆的人回答道。 ‘他们很快就会来这里的。到那时，您愿意成为其中一员吗，先生？

‘Certainly. But what’s one among so many!’
'当然。但这么多中的一个是什么！

‘Better than none. ‘Tis melancholy work facing and footing it to one of your own sort, and no clipsing and colling at all. Now, pick and choose.’
‘总比没有好。这是一项令人忧郁的工作，面对并适应你自己的同类，根本没有剪辑和整理。现在，挑选吧。

‘‘Ssh—don’t be so for’ard!’ said a shyer girl.
“嘘——别这么急！”一个害羞的女孩说道。

The young man, thus invited, glanced them over, and attempted some discrimination; but, as the group were all so new to him, he could not very well exercise it. He took almost the first that came to hand, which was not the speaker, as she had expected; nor did it happen to be Tess Durbeyfield. Pedigree, ancestral skeletons, monumental record, the d’Urberville lineaments, did not help Tess in her life’s battle as yet, even to the extent of attracting to her a dancing-partner over the heads of the commonest peasantry. So much for Norman blood unaided by Victorian lucre.
年轻人受到邀请，扫视了他们一眼，试图做出一些辨别。但是，由于这群人对他来说都很陌生，他无法很好地运用它。他几乎接过手边的第一个东西，但正如她所料，那不是说话的人。也不是苔丝·德北菲尔德。血统、祖先的骸骨、不朽的记录、德伯维尔的外貌，在苔丝人生的战斗中还没有帮助她，甚至没有吸引到一个在最普通的农民头上跳舞的舞伴。没有维多利亚时代财富的帮助，诺曼人的血统就到此为止了。

The name of the eclipsing girl, whatever it was, has not been handed down; but she was envied by all as the first who enjoyed the luxury of a masculine partner that evening. Yet such was the force of example that the village young men, who had not hastened to enter the gate while no intruder was in the way, now dropped in quickly, and soon the couples became leavened with rustic youth to a marked extent, till at length the plainest woman in the club was no longer compelled to foot it on the masculine side of the figure.
那个黯然失色的女孩的名字，无论是什么，都没有被流传下来。但她却被所有人羡慕为当晚第一个享受男性伴侣奢侈的人。然而，榜样的力量如此之大，以至于村里的年轻人，在没有入侵者挡路的情况下，没有赶紧进门，现在很快就进来了，很快，这对夫妇就显着地充满了乡村青年的气息，直到俱乐部里最朴素的女人不再被迫将其踩在人物的男性一侧。

The church clock struck, when suddenly the student said that he must leave—he had been forgetting himself—he had to join his companions. As he fell out of the dance his eyes lighted on Tess Durbeyfield, whose own large orbs wore, to tell the truth, the faintest aspect of reproach that he had not chosen her. He, too, was sorry then that, owing to her backwardness, he had not observed her; and with that in his mind he left the pasture.
教堂的钟敲响了，突然，学生说他必须离开了——他已经忘记了自己——他必须和他的同伴们在一起。当他从舞蹈中倒下时，他的目光落在苔丝·德北菲尔德身上，说实话，她的大眼珠上带着一丝责备，因为他没有选择她。当时他也很遗憾，由于她的落后，他没有观察到她。带着这样的想法，他离开了牧场。

On account of his long delay he started in a flying-run down the lane westward, and had soon passed the hollow and mounted the next rise. He had not yet overtaken his brothers, but he paused to get breath, and looked back. He could see the white figures of the girls in the green enclosure whirling about as they had whirled when he was among them. They seemed to have quite forgotten him already.
由于耽误了很长时间，他开始沿着小路向西飞奔，很快就穿过了洼地，登上了下一个高地。他还没有追上他的兄弟们，但他停下来喘口气，回头看了一眼。他看见绿色围场里女孩们白色的身影在旋转，就像他在她们中间时一样。他们似乎已经把他完全忘记了。

All of them, except, perhaps, one. This white shape stood apart by the hedge alone. From her position he knew it to be the pretty maiden with whom he had not danced. Trifling as the matter was, he yet instinctively felt that she was hurt by his oversight. He wished that he had asked her; he wished that he had inquired her name. She was so modest, so expressive, she had looked so soft in her thin white gown that he felt he had acted stupidly.
所有这些，也许除了一个。这个白色的身影孤零零地矗立在树篱旁。从她的位置来看，他知道那是那个他没有跳舞过的漂亮姑娘。虽然是一件小事，但他却本能地感觉到，她因为自己的疏忽而受伤了。他希望他当时问过她；但事实并非如此。他希望他问过她的名字。她是那么谦虚，那么富有表现力，穿着薄薄的白色长袍，显得那么温柔，让他觉得自己的行为很愚蠢。

However, it could not be helped, and turning, and bending himself to a rapid walk, he dismissed the subject from his mind.
然而，他无可奈何，转身弯腰快步走去，把这个话题从脑海中抛之脑后。

III
三、

As for Tess Durbeyfield, she did not so easily dislodge the incident from her consideration. She had no spirit to dance again for a long time, though she might have had plenty of partners; but ah! they did not speak so nicely as the strange young man had done. It was not till the rays of the sun had absorbed the young stranger’s retreating figure on the hill that she shook off her temporary sadness and answered her would-be partner in the affirmative.
至于苔丝·德北菲尔德，她并没有那么轻易地将这件事从她的考虑中剔除。尽管她可能有很多舞伴，但她已经很长一段时间没有精神再跳舞了；但是啊！他们说话不像那个奇怪的年轻人那样好听。直到阳光吸收了山上年轻陌生人远去的背影，她才摆脱了暂时的悲伤，对她未来的伴侣做出了肯定的回答。

She remained with her comrades till dusk, and participated with a certain zest in the dancing; though, being heart-whole as yet, she enjoyed treading a measure purely for its own sake; little divining when she saw ‘the soft torments, the bitter sweets, the pleasing pains, and the agreeable distresses’ of those girls who had been wooed and won, what she herself was capable of in that kind. The struggles and wrangles of the lads for her hand in a jig were an amusement to her—no more; and when they became fierce she rebuked them.
她和伙伴们待到黄昏，并怀着一定的热情参加了舞蹈。不过，她仍然全心全意地享受纯粹为了自己而采取的行动。当她看到那些被追求并赢得的女孩的“柔软的折磨、苦涩的甜蜜、令人愉悦的痛苦和令人愉快的痛苦”时，她几乎没有预见到她自己有能力做到这一点。小伙子们为争夺她的手而发生的争吵对她来说只是一种乐趣——仅此而已。当他们变得激烈时，她就斥责他们。

She might have stayed even later, but the incident of her father’s odd appearance and manner returned upon the girl’s mind to make her anxious, and wondering what had become of him she dropped away from the dancers and bent her steps towards the end of the village at which the parental cottage lay.
她本可以呆得更晚，但她父亲奇怪的外表和举止的事件再次出现在女孩的脑海中，让她感到焦虑，她想知道他怎么样了，她从舞者身边走开，弯下脚步向村子的尽头走去。父母的小屋就坐落在那里。

While yet many score yards off, other rhythmic sounds than those she had quitted became audible to her; sounds that she knew well—so well. They were a regular series of thumpings from the interior of the house, occasioned by the violent rocking of a cradle upon a stone floor, to which movement a feminine voice kept time by singing, in a vigorous gallopade, the favourite ditty of ‘The Spotted Cow’—
虽然距离还有很多距离，但除了她已经放弃的声音之外，她还听到了其他有节奏的声音；听起来她很熟悉——非常熟悉。它们是从房子内部传来的一系列有规律的重击声，由摇篮在石头地板上剧烈摇晃引起，一个女性声音以有力的疾驰唱着《斑点》中最喜欢的小调，与摇篮的运动保持同步。奶牛'-

I saw her lie do’-own in yon’-der green gro’-ove;
我看见她躺在那边的绿树林里；

 Come, love!’ and I’ll tell’ you where!’
来吧，亲爱的！’我会告诉你’在哪里！’

The cradle-rocking and the song would cease simultaneously for a moment, and an exclamation at highest vocal pitch would take the place of the melody.
摇篮的摇动和歌曲会同时停止片刻，最高音调的感叹声将取代旋律。

‘God bless thy diment eyes! And thy waxen cheeks! And thy cherry mouth! And thy Cubit’s thighs! And every bit o’ thy blessed body!’
‘上帝保佑你的小眼睛！还有你蜡黄的脸颊！还有你的樱桃小嘴！还有你的肘部大腿！还有你神圣的身体的每一点！

After this invocation the rocking and the singing would recommence, and the ‘Spotted Cow’ proceed as before. So matters stood when Tess opened the door and paused upon the mat within it, surveying the scene.
在这次祈祷之后，摇摆和歌唱将重新开始，“斑点牛”将像以前一样继续进行。当苔丝打开门，停在门内的垫子上，环顾四周时，事情就这样发生了。

The interior, in spite of the melody, struck upon the girl’s senses with an unspeakable dreariness. From the holiday gaieties of the field—the white gowns, the nosegays, the willow-wands, the whirling movements on the green, the flash of gentle sentiment towards the stranger—to the yellow melancholy of this one-candled spectacle, what a step! Besides the jar of contrast there came to her a chill self-reproach that she had not returned sooner, to help her mother in these domesticities, instead of indulging herself out-of-doors.
尽管有旋律，但室内的气氛却给女孩带来了一种难以形容的沉闷感。从田野里的节日欢乐——白色长袍、花束、柳条、绿地上的旋转动作、对陌生人闪烁的温柔情感——到这一单蜡烛奇观的黄色忧郁，这是多么大的一步！除了强烈的反差之外，她还感到一种寒冷的自责，她没有早点回来帮助母亲处理这些家务，而不是在户外放纵自己。

There stood her mother amid the group of children, as Tess had left her, hanging over the Monday washing-tub, which had now, as always, lingered on to the end of the week. Out of that tub had come the day before—Tess felt it with a dreadful sting of remorse—the very white frock upon her back which she had so carelessly greened about the skirt on the damping grass—which had been wrung up and ironed by her mother’s own hands.
她的母亲站在一群孩子中间，就像苔丝离开她时一样，挂在星期一的洗衣盆上，而这个洗衣盆现在像往常一样一直持续到周末。前一天从那个浴缸里出来了——苔丝带着一种可怕的悔恨的刺痛感到了——她背上那件非常白色的连衣裙，她在潮湿的草地上不小心把裙子弄绿了——这件连衣裙是她拧干熨烫的。母亲亲手。

As usual, Mrs Durbeyfield was balanced on one foot beside the tub, the other being engaged in the aforesaid business of rocking her youngest child. The cradle-rockers had done hard duty for so many years, under the weight of so many children, on that flagstone floor, that they were worn nearly flat, in consequence of which a huge jerk accompanied each swing of the cot, flinging the baby from side to side like a weaver’s shuttle, as Mrs Durbeyfield, excited by her song, trod the rocker with all the spring that was left in her after a long day’s seething in the suds.
像往常一样，德北菲尔德夫人一只脚站在浴缸旁边保持平衡，另一只脚则忙着摇晃她最小的孩子。摇篮摇椅在石板地板上承受了这么多孩子的重压，多年来一直在辛苦工作，以至于摇篮摇椅几乎被磨平了，因此每次摇篮都会伴随着巨大的震动，将婴儿抛到一边。德北菲尔德夫人被她的歌声激动得像织布工的梭子一样从一边到另一边，用她在肥皂水里泡了一整天后所剩的全部精力踩在摇椅上。

Nick-knock, nick-knock, went the cradle; the candle-flame stretched itself tall, and began jigging up and down; the water dribbled from the matron’s elbows, and the song galloped on to the end of the verse, Mrs Durbeyfield regarding her daughter the while. Even now, when burdened with a young family, Joan Durbeyfield was a passionate lover of tune. No ditty floated into Blackmoor Vale from the outer world but Tess’s mother caught up its notation in a week.
叮当，叮当，摇篮消失了；蜡烛的火焰伸得很高，开始上下跳动。水从女护士的肘部滴下来，歌曲疾驰到了诗句的结尾，德北菲尔德夫人同时看着她的女儿。即使现在，琼·德北菲尔德（Joan Durbeyfield）背负着年轻家庭的重担，仍然是一位热情的音乐爱好者。布莱克莫尔谷没有任何小曲从外面的世界飘来，但苔丝的母亲在一周内就记住了它的乐谱。

There still faintly beamed from the woman’s features something of the freshness, and even the prettiness, of her youth; rendering it probable that the personal charms which Tess could boast of were in main part her mother’s gift, and therefore unknightly, unhistorical.
女人的脸上还隐约散发着年轻时的清新，甚至美丽。苔丝所夸耀的个人魅力很可能主要是她母亲的天赋，因此是不道德的、非历史的。

‘I’ll rock the cradle for ‘ee, mother,’ said the daughter gently. ‘Or I’ll take off my best frock and help you wring up? I thought you had finished long ago.’
“我会摇摇篮，‘嗯，妈妈’，”女儿轻轻地说。 “或者我脱掉我最好的连衣裙帮你拧干？”我以为你早就完成了。

Her mother bore Tess no ill-will for leaving the housework to her single-handed efforts for so long; indeed, Joan seldom upbraided her thereon at any time, feeling but slightly the lack of Tess’s assistance whilst her instinctive plan for relieving herself of her labours lay in postponing them. To-night, however, she was even in a blither mood than usual. There was a dreaminess, a pre-occupation, an exaltation, in the maternal look which the girl could not understand.
苔丝这么长时间把家务活交给她一个人做，她的母亲对她并没有什么恶意。事实上，琼很少在任何时候责备她，只是感觉苔丝缺乏帮助，而她本能地计划推迟工作以减轻自己的负担。然而今天晚上，她的心情甚至比平常还要轻松。母亲的神情里有一种女孩无法理解的梦幻、全神贯注、兴奋。

‘Well, I’m glad you’ve come,’ her mother said, as soon as the last note had passed out of her. ‘I want to go and fetch your father; but what’s more’n that, I want to tell ‘ee what have happened. Y’ll be fess enough, my poppet, when th’st know!’ (Mrs Durbeyfield habitually spoke the dialect; her daughter, who had passed the Sixth Standard in the National School under a London-trained mistress, spoke two languages: the dialect at home, more or less; ordinary English abroad and to persons of quality.)
“好吧，我很高兴你能来，”她母亲刚从她嘴里传出最后一张纸条就说道。 “我想去接你父亲；但更重要的是，我想告诉你发生了什么事。你会坦白的，我的宝贝，当你知道的时候！”（德北菲尔德夫人习惯说方言；她的女儿在一位伦敦训练有素的情妇的指导下通过了国立学校的第六标准，会说两种语言：在国内，或多或少是方言；在国外，对有素质的人来说，是普通英语。）

‘Since I’ve been away?’ Tess asked.
“自从我离开之后？”苔丝问。

‘Ay!’
“哎呀！”

‘Had it anything to do with father’s making such a mommet of himself in thik carriage this afternoon? Why did ‘er? I felt inclined to sink into the ground with shame!’
“这和父亲今天下午在厚厚的马车里出丑有什么关系吗？”为什么这么做？我羞愧得快要沉入地下了！

‘That wer all a part of the larry! We’ve been found to be the greatest gentlefolk in the whole county—reaching all back long before Oliver Grumble’s time—to the days of the Pagan Turks—with monuments, and vaults, and crests, and ‘scutcheons, and the Lord knows what all. In Saint Charles’s days we was made Knights o’ the Royal Oak, our real name being d’Urberville! ... Don’t that make your bosom plim? ‘Twas on this account that your father rode home in the vlee; not because he’d been drinking, as people supposed.’
“那都是拉里的一部分！”人们发现我们是全县最伟大的绅士——早在奥利弗·格朗布尔的时代之前——就到了异教土耳其人的时代——有纪念碑、拱顶、徽章和标牌，上帝知道是什么全部。在圣查尔斯时代，我们被封为皇家橡树骑士，我们的真名是德伯维尔！ ……这不是让你的胸部变得丰满吗？ “正是因为这个原因，你的父亲才骑马骑马回家；并不是像人们想象的那样，因为他喝了酒。”

‘I’m glad of that. Will it do us any good, mother?’
‘我对此很高兴。妈妈，这对我们有什么好处吗？

‘O yes! ‘Tis thoughted that great things may come o’t. No doubt a mampus of volk of our own rank will be down here in their carriages as soon as ‘tis known. Your father learnt it on his way hwome from Shaston, and he has been telling me the whole pedigree of the matter.’
'哦是啊！人们认为伟大的事情可能会发生。毫无疑问，一旦得知这一消息，我们级别的人民就会乘坐他们的马车来到这里。你父亲从沙斯顿回来的路上得知了这件事，他一直告诉我这件事的全部经过。

‘Where is father now?’ asked Tess suddenly.
“父亲现在在哪儿？”苔丝突然问道。

Her mother gave irrelevant information by way of answer: ‘He called to see the doctor to-day in Shaston. It is not consumption at all, it seems. It is fat round his heart, ‘a says. There, it is like this.’ Joan Durbeyfield, as she spoke, curved a sodden thumb and forefinger to the shape of the letter C, and used the other forefinger as a pointer. ‘‘At the present moment,’ he says to your father, ‘your heart is enclosed all round there, and all round there; this space is still open,’ ‘a says. ‘As soon as it do meet, so,’’—Mrs Durbeyfield closed her fingers into a circle complete—‘‘off you will go like a shadder, Mr Durbeyfield,’ ‘a says. ‘You mid last ten years; you mid go off in ten months, or ten days.’’
她的母亲在回答中提供了一些不相关的信息：“他今天打电话去沙斯顿看医生。”看来这根本就不是消费。他的心脏周围很胖，”a 说。就是这样。”琼·德北菲尔德边说边把浸湿的拇指和食指弯曲成字母 C 的形状，并用另一只食指作为教鞭。 “现在，”他对你的父亲说，“你的心被包围在那里，包围在那里；这个空间仍然开放，”a 说道。 “一旦相遇，”——德北菲尔德夫人将手指合拢成一个圆圈——“德北菲尔德先生，你就会像个鲭鱼一样离开，”a说道。 ‘你已经过去十年了；你可能会在十个月或十天后离开。”

Tess looked alarmed. Her father possibly to go behind the eternal cloud so soon, notwithstanding this sudden greatness!
苔丝看上去很惊慌。她的父亲可能会这么快就走入永恒的云彩后面，尽管这突如其来的伟大！

‘But where IS father?’ she asked again.
“但是父亲在哪里？”她又问。

Her mother put on a deprecating look. ‘Now don’t you be bursting out angry! The poor man—he felt so rafted after his uplifting by the pa’son’s news—that he went up to Rolliver’s half an hour ago. He do want to get up his strength for his journey to-morrow with that load of beehives, which must be delivered, family or no. He’ll have to start shortly after twelve to-night, as the distance is so long.’
母亲露出不屑的表情。 ‘现在你别生气了！这个可怜的人——他因牧师的消息而振奋不已——半小时前就去了罗利弗家。他确实想为明天的旅程积蓄力量，带着那堆蜂箱，无论家人与否，这些蜂箱都必须交付。今晚十二点刚过，他就得出发了，因为距离太远了。”

‘Get up his strength!’ said Tess impetuously, the tears welling to her eyes. ‘O my God! Go to a public-house to get up his strength! And you as well agreed as he, mother!’
“给他加点力气！”苔丝急躁地说，眼泪夺眶而出。 ‘我的上帝啊！去酒馆增强体力吧！你和他一样同意，妈妈！”

Her rebuke and her mood seemed to fill the whole room, and to impart a cowed look to the furniture, and candle, and children playing about, and to her mother’s face.
她的斥责和她的情绪似乎充满了整个房间，并给家具、蜡烛、玩耍的孩子们和她母亲的脸上带来了一种畏惧的表情。

‘No,’ said the latter touchily, ‘I be not agreed. I have been waiting for ‘ee to bide and keep house while I go fetch him.’
“不，”后者生气地说，“我不同意。”我一直在等待“他待在家里，我去接他。”

‘I’ll go.’
'我会去。'

‘O no, Tess. You see, it would be no use.’
“噢，不，苔丝。你看，那是没有用的。

Tess did not expostulate. She knew what her mother’s objection meant. Mrs Durbeyfield’s jacket and bonnet were already hanging slily upon a chair by her side, in readiness for this contemplated jaunt, the reason for which the matron deplored more than its necessity.
苔丝没有劝告。她知道母亲的反对意味着什么。德北菲尔德夫人的夹克和帽子已经巧妙地挂在她身边的一把椅子上，为这次计划中的短途旅行做好准备，而女护士长为此感到遗憾的不仅仅是它的必要性。

‘And take the Compleat Fortune-Teller to the outhouse,’ Joan continued, rapidly wiping her hands, and donning the garments.
“然后把完全算命师带到外屋去，”琼继续说道，迅速擦干双手，穿上衣服。

The Compleat Fortune-Teller was an old thick volume, which lay on a table at her elbow, so worn by pocketing that the margins had reached the edge of the type. Tess took it up, and her mother started.
《完整的算命师》是一本厚厚的旧书，放在她肘部的桌子上，由于装进口袋而磨损得很厉害，页边已经到了字体的边缘。苔丝接了起来，她妈妈也开始了。

This going to hunt up her shiftless husband at the inn was one of Mrs Durbeyfield’s still extant enjoyments in the muck and muddle of rearing children. To discover him at Rolliver’s, to sit there for an hour or two by his side and dismiss all thought and care of the children during the interval, made her happy. A sort of halo, an occidental glow, came over life then. Troubles and other realities took on themselves a metaphysical impalpability, sinking to mere mental phenomena for serene contemplation, and no longer stood as pressing concretions which chafed body and soul. The youngsters, not immediately within sight, seemed rather bright and desirable appurtenances than otherwise; the incidents of daily life were not without humorousness and jollity in their aspect there. She felt a little as she had used to feel when she sat by her now wedded husband in the same spot during his wooing, shutting her eyes to his defects of character, and regarding him only in his ideal presentation as lover.
在客栈寻找她那无能的丈夫，是德北菲尔德夫人在抚养孩子的泥泞和混乱中仍然存在的乐趣之一。在罗利弗家发现他，在他身边坐上一两个小时，在休息期间抛开对孩子们的所有思考和关心，让她很高兴。那时的生活笼罩着一种光环，一种西方的光芒。烦恼和其他现实本身就呈现出一种形而上学的难以捉摸的感觉，它们沦为纯粹的精神现象，供人们平静地沉思，而不再是折磨身体和灵魂的紧迫的凝固物。这些年轻人虽然没有立即出现在人们的视线范围内，但看上去却是相当聪明、令人向往的附属品。那里的日常生活事件也不乏幽默和欢乐。她的感觉有点像过去，当她在已婚的丈夫求爱时坐在同一个地方，对他性格上的缺陷视而不见，只把他视为理想的情人时，她的感觉就如以前一样。

Tess, being left alone with the younger children, went first to the outhouse with the fortune-telling book, and stuffed it into the thatch. A curious fetishistic fear of this grimy volume on the part of her mother prevented her ever allowing it to stay in the house all night, and hither it was brought back whenever it had been consulted. Between the mother, with her fast-perishing lumber of superstitions, folk-lore, dialect, and orally transmitted ballads, and the daughter, with her trained National teachings and Standard knowledge under an infinitely Revised Code, there was a gap of two hundred years as ordinarily understood. When they were together the Jacobean and the Victorian ages were juxtaposed.
苔丝独自一人和年幼的孩子们在一起，她先拿着算命书来到外屋，把它塞进了茅草屋里。她母亲对这本肮脏的书抱有一种奇怪的恋物恐惧，不允许她把它整夜留在家里，每当有人查阅它时，它就会被带回来。母亲的迷信、民间传说、方言和口头传播的民谣很快就会消亡，而女儿则受过训练有素的国家教义和无限修订的法典下的标准知识，两者之间存在着两百年的差距。按照通常的理解。当他们在一起时，詹姆士一世时代和维多利亚时代并列在一起。

Returning along the garden path Tess mused on what the mother could have wished to ascertain from the book on this particular day. She guessed the recent ancestral discovery to bear upon it, but did not divine that it solely concerned herself. Dismissing this, however, she busied herself with sprinkling the linen dried during the day-time, in company with her nine-year-old brother Abraham, and her sister Eliza-Louisa of twelve and a half, called ‘‘Liza-Lu,’ the youngest ones being put to bed. There was an interval of four years and more between Tess and the next of the family, the two who had filled the gap having died in their infancy, and this lent her a deputy-maternal attitude when she was alone with her juniors. Next in juvenility to Abraham came two more girls, Hope and Modesty; then a boy of three, and then the baby, who had just completed his first year.
沿着花园小路返回时，苔丝沉思着母亲在这一天希望从书中查明什么。她猜测最近的祖先发现与此有关，但并没有预见到这仅仅与她自己有关。然而，她不理会这一点，白天与她九岁的弟弟亚伯拉罕和十二岁半的妹妹伊丽莎-路易莎（被称为“丽莎-卢”）一起忙着洒干亚麻布， ’最小的孩子被送上床睡觉。苔丝和家里的下一个成员之间有四年多的时间间隔，填补这一空白的两个人在婴儿时期就去世了，这让她在独自和晚辈们在一起时表现出一种副母亲的态度。在亚伯拉罕之后，年轻时又出现了两个女孩，霍普和莫迪丝蒂。然后是一个三岁的男孩，然后是刚刚完成一年级的婴儿。

All these young souls were passengers in the Durbeyfield ship—entirely dependent on the judgement of the two Durbeyfield adults for their pleasures, their necessities, their health, even their existence. If the heads of the Durbeyfield household chose to sail into difficulty, disaster, starvation, disease, degradation, death, thither were these half-dozen little captives under hatches compelled to sail with them—six helpless creatures, who had never been asked if they wished for life on any terms, much less if they wished for it on such hard conditions as were involved in being of the shiftless house of Durbeyfield. Some people would like to know whence the poet whose philosophy is in these days deemed as profound and trustworthy as his song is breezy and pure, gets his authority for speaking of ‘Nature’s holy plan.’
所有这些年轻的灵魂都是德北菲尔德船上的乘客——他们的快乐、他们的必需品、他们的健康，甚至他们的存在，完全取决于两个德北菲尔德成年人的判断。如果德北菲尔德家族的首领选择航行进入困难、灾难、饥饿、疾病、堕落、死亡，那么舱口下的这六个小俘虏就被迫与他们一起航行——六个无助的生物，从来没有人问过他们是否他们希望以任何条件获得生命，更不用说在像德北菲尔德这个无能的家族那样艰苦的条件下获得生命了。有些人想知道，这位哲学如今被视为深刻而值得信赖、其歌曲轻松而纯粹的诗人从何而来，获得了谈论“自然的神圣计划”的权威。

It grew later, and neither father nor mother reappeared. Tess looked out of the door, and took a mental journey through Marlott. The village was shutting its eyes. Candles and lamps were being put out everywhere: she could inwardly behold the extinguisher and the extended hand.
后来它长大了，爸爸和妈妈都没有再出现。苔丝向门外望去，在马洛特进行了一场心灵之旅。村里人都闭上了眼睛。到处都熄灭了蜡烛和灯：她可以在内心看到灭火器和伸出的手。

Her mother’s fetching simply meant one more to fetch. Tess began to perceive that a man in indifferent health, who proposed to start on a journey before one in the morning, ought not to be at an inn at this late hour celebrating his ancient blood.
她妈妈去拿东西只是意味着还要去拿一件东西。苔丝开始意识到，一个健康状况不佳的人，打算在凌晨一点之前出发，不应该在这么晚的时候到旅馆里庆祝他古老的血统。

‘Abraham,’ she said to her little brother, ‘do you put on your hat—you bain’t afraid?—and go up to Rolliver’s, and see what has gone wi’ father and mother.’
“亚伯拉罕，”她对弟弟说，“你戴上帽子——你不害怕吗？——去罗利弗家，看看爸爸和妈妈出了什么事。”

The boy jumped promptly from his seat, and opened the door, and the night swallowed him up. Half an hour passed yet again; neither man, woman, nor child returned. Abraham, like his parents, seemed to have been limed and caught by the ensnaring inn.
男孩迅速从座位上跳起来，打开门，夜色把他吞没了。半个小时又过去了。男人、女人和孩子都没有回来。亚伯拉罕和他的父母一样，似乎也被这家设陷阱的客栈所迷惑并抓住了。

‘I must go myself,’ she said.
“我必须自己去，”她说。

‘Liza-Lu then went to bed, and Tess, locking them all in, started on her way up the dark and crooked lane or street not made for hasty progress; a street laid out before inches of land had value, and when one-handed clocks sufficiently subdivided the day.
丽莎-鲁上床睡觉了，苔丝把他们都锁在里面，开始沿着黑暗弯曲的小巷或街道走，不宜仓促前进；当单手时钟足以细分一天时，几英寸土地之前铺设的街道就具有价值。

IV

Rolliver’s inn, the single alehouse at this end of the long and broken village, could only boast of an off-licence; hence, as nobody could legally drink on the premises, the amount of overt accommodation for consumers was strictly limited to a little board about six inches wide and two yards long, fixed to the garden palings by pieces of wire, so as to form a ledge. On this board thirsty strangers deposited their cups as they stood in the road and drank, and threw the dregs on the dusty ground to the pattern of Polynesia, and wished they could have a restful seat inside.
罗利弗的酒馆是这个又长又破的村庄这一端的唯一一家酒馆，只能以无执照为荣。因此，由于没有人可以在该场所合法饮酒，因此为消费者提供的公开住宿空间被严格限制在一块约六英寸宽、两码长的小木板上，用金属丝固定在花园的栅栏上，以形成一个壁架。口渴的陌生人站在路边喝酒时，把杯子放在这块木板上，把酒渣扔到尘土飞扬的地上，仿照波利尼西亚的图案，希望能在里面安息。

Thus the strangers. But there were also local customers who felt the same wish; and where there’s a will there’s a way.
故此为陌生人。但也有当地顾客也有同样的愿望；有志者事竟成。

In a large bedroom upstairs, the window of which was thickly curtained with a great woollen shawl lately discarded by the landlady, Mrs Rolliver, were gathered on this evening nearly a dozen persons, all seeking beatitude; all old inhabitants of the nearer end of Marlott, and frequenters of this retreat. Not only did the distance to the The Pure Drop, the fully-licensed tavern at the further part of the dispersed village, render its accommodation practically unavailable for dwellers at this end; but the far more serious question, the quality of the liquor, confirmed the prevalent opinion that it was better to drink with Rolliver in a corner of the housetop than with the other landlord in a wide house.
楼上的一间大卧室里，窗户上挂着厚厚的窗帘，上面挂着一条最近被女房东罗利弗太太丢弃的大羊毛披肩，今天晚上，这里聚集了近十二个人，全都在寻求幸福。所有马洛特近端的老居民，以及这个隐居地的常客。不仅距离The Pure Drop（位于分散村庄较远部分的完全许可的小酒馆）的距离，使得这一端的居民实际上无法提供住宿；而且但更严重的问题，即酒的质量，证实了普遍的观点：与罗利弗一起在屋顶的一角喝酒比与另一位房东在宽阔的房子里喝酒更好。

A gaunt four-post bedstead which stood in the room afforded sitting-space for several persons gathered round three of its sides; a couple more men had elevated themselves on a chest of drawers; another rested on the oak-carved ‘cwoffer”; two on the wash-stand; another on the stool; and thus all were, somehow, seated at their ease. The stage of mental comfort to which they had arrived at this hour was one wherein their souls expanded beyond their skins, and spread their personalities warmly through the room. In this process the chamber and its furniture grew more and more dignified and luxurious; the shawl hanging at the window took upon itself the richness of tapestry; the brass handles of the chest of drawers were as golden knockers; and the carved bedposts seemed to have some kinship with the magnificent pillars of Solomon’s temple.
房间里有一张破旧的四柱床架，为聚集在床架的三个侧面的几个人提供了休息空间。还有几个人爬到了一个抽屉柜上。另一个放在橡木雕刻的“cwoffer”上；洗脸台上有两个；另一个在凳子上；因此，不知何故，所有人都轻松地坐着。他们此刻所达到的精神安慰阶段是，他们的灵魂扩展到皮肤之外，并将他们的个性热情地传播到整个房间。在这个过程中，房间及其家具变得越来越庄重和豪华。挂在窗户上的披肩呈现出华丽的挂毯色彩。抽屉柜的黄铜把手就像金色的门环。雕刻的床柱似乎与所罗门圣殿的宏伟柱子有某种血缘关系。

Mrs Durbeyfield, having quickly walked hitherward after parting from Tess, opened the front door, crossed the downstairs room, which was in deep gloom, and then unfastened the stair-door like one whose fingers knew the tricks of the latches well. Her ascent of the crooked staircase was a slower process, and her face, as it rose into the light above the last stair, encountered the gaze of all the party assembled in the bedroom.
德北菲尔德太太与苔丝告别后，快步走到这里，打开前门，穿过楼下昏暗的房间，然后打开楼梯门，就像手指熟悉门闩的窍门一样。她爬上弯曲的楼梯是一个缓慢的过程，当她的脸升入最后一个楼梯上方的光线时，遇到了聚集在卧室里的所有人的目光。

‘—Being a few private friends I’ve asked in to keep up club-walking at my own expense,’ the landlady exclaimed at the sound of footsteps, as glibly as a child repeating the Catechism, while she peered over the stairs. ‘Oh, ‘tis you, Mrs Durbeyfield—Lard—how you frightened me!—I thought it might be some gaffer sent by Gover’ment.’
“——作为几个私人朋友，我自费请了几个朋友继续在俱乐部散步，”女房东听到脚步声大声喊道，她一边凝视着楼梯，一边像个孩子一样熟练地重复着教义问答。 “哦，是你，德北菲尔德太太——猪油——你吓死我了！——我以为这可能是政府派来的某个灯光师。”

Mrs Durbeyfield was welcomed with glances and nods by the remainder of the conclave, and turned to where her husband sat. He was humming absently to himself, in a low tone: ‘I be as good as some folks here and there! I’ve got a great family vault at Kingsbere-sub-Greenhill, and finer skillentons than any man in Wessex!’
德北菲尔德夫人受到了秘密会议其余成员的目光和点头的欢迎，然后转向她丈夫坐的地方。他心不在焉地低声哼着歌：“我和这里那里的一些人一样好！”我在格林希尔以下的金斯贝尔有一个很棒的家庭金库，还有比威塞克斯任何人都更好的技能！

‘I’ve something to tell ‘ee that’s come into my head about that—a grand projick!’ whispered his cheerful wife. ‘Here, John, don’t ‘ee see me?’ She nudged him, while he, looking through her as through a window-pane, went on with his recitative.
“我有话要告诉你，我脑子里浮现出一个伟大的计划！”他快乐的妻子低声说道。 “约翰，你没看到我吗？”她轻轻推了推他，而他则像透过窗玻璃一样透过她，继续朗诵。

‘Hush! Don’t ‘ee sing so loud, my good man,’ said the landlady; ‘in case any member of the Gover’ment should be passing, and take away my licends.’
‘嘘！ “别唱得太大声了，我的好人，”女房东说。 “如果有任何政府成员经过，就拿走我的执照。”

‘He’s told ‘ee what’s happened to us, I suppose?’ asked Mrs Durbeyfield.
“他告诉我们，‘我想我们发生了什么事？’德北菲尔德夫人问道。

‘Yes—in a way. D’ye think there’s any money hanging by it?’
“是的——在某种程度上。你认为这里面有钱吗？

‘Ah, that’s the secret,’ said Joan Durbeyfield sagely. ‘However, ‘tis well to be kin to a coach, even if you don’t ride in ‘en.’ She dropped her public voice, and continued in a low tone to her husband: ‘I’ve been thinking since you brought the news that there’s a great rich lady out by Trantridge, on the edge o’ The Chase, of the name of d’Urberville.’
“啊，这就是秘密。”琼·德北菲尔德睿智地说。 “不过，就算你不骑车，和教练有亲缘关系也好。”她压低了公开的声音，继续低声对丈夫说：“自从你带了马车以来，我一直在想。”有消息说，特兰特里奇附近有一位富有的女士，就在蔡斯的边缘，名叫德伯维尔。

‘Hey—what’s that?’ said Sir John.
“嘿——那是什么？”约翰爵士说。

She repeated the information. ‘That lady must be our relation,’ she said. ‘And my projick is to send Tess to claim kin.’
她重复了一遍信息。 “那位女士一定是我们的亲戚，”她说。 “我的计划是派苔丝去找亲人。”

‘There IS a lady of the name, now you mention it,’ said Durbeyfield. ‘Pa’son Tringham didn’t think of that. But she’s nothing beside we—a junior branch of us, no doubt, hailing long since King Norman’s day.’
“有一位女士叫这个名字，现在你提到了，”德北菲尔德说。 “帕森·特林汉姆没有想到这一点。但她除了我们之外什么也不是——毫无疑问，她只是我们的一个初级分支，从诺曼国王时代起就一直受到欢迎。”

While this question was being discussed neither of the pair noticed, in their preoccupation, that little Abraham had crept into the room, and was awaiting an opportunity of asking them to return.
当他们正在讨论这个问题时，两人全神贯注，没有注意到小亚伯拉罕已经悄悄溜进房间，正在等待邀请他们回来的机会。

‘She is rich, and she’d be sure to take notice o’ the maid,’ continued Mrs Durbeyfield; ‘and ‘twill be a very good thing. I don’t see why two branches o’ one family should not be on visiting terms.’
“她很有钱，她一定会注意到女仆的，”德北菲尔德夫人继续说道。 '并且'斜纹将是一件非常好的事情。我不明白为什么一个家庭的两个分支不应该以探亲的方式进行。

‘Yes; and we’ll all claim kin!’ said Abraham brightly from under the bedstead. ‘And we’ll all go and see her when Tess has gone to live with her; and we’ll ride in her coach and wear black clothes!’
'是的;我们都会声称自己是亲人！”亚伯拉罕在床架下明亮地说。 “等苔丝去和她住在一起之后，我们都会去看她；我们将乘坐她的教练并穿着黑色衣服！

‘How do you come here, child? What nonsense be ye talking! Go away, and play on the stairs till father and mother be ready! ... Well, Tess ought to go to this other member of our family. She’d be sure to win the lady—Tess would; and likely enough ‘twould lead to some noble gentleman marrying her. In short, I know it.’
‘你怎么到这里来了，孩子？你们胡说些什么啊！走开，在楼梯上玩，直到爸爸和妈妈准备好为止！ ……好吧，苔丝应该去找我们家的另一个成员。她一定会赢得这位女士的青睐——苔丝会的；很可能会导致某个高贵的绅士娶她。简而言之，我知道。

‘How?’
'如何？'

‘I tried her fate in the Fortune-Teller, and it brought out that very thing! ... You should ha’ seen how pretty she looked to-day; her skin is as sumple as a duchess’.’
“我在《算命先生》中尝试过她的命运，结果正是如此！ ……你应该看看她今天有多漂亮；她的皮肤像公爵夫人一样光滑。”

‘What says the maid herself to going?’
“女仆自己说什么要走？”

‘I’ve not asked her. She don’t know there is any such lady-relation yet. But it would certainly put her in the way of a grand marriage, and she won’t say nay to going.’
‘我没有问过她。她还不知道有这样的女士关系。但这肯定会妨碍她的盛大婚姻，她不会拒绝去。”

‘Tess is queer.’
“苔丝很奇怪。”

‘But she’s tractable at bottom. Leave her to me.’
“但她骨子里很听话。”把她留给我吧。

Though this conversation had been private, sufficient of its import reached the understandings of those around to suggest to them that the Durbeyfields had weightier concerns to talk of now than common folks had, and that Tess, their pretty eldest daughter, had fine prospects in store.
虽然这次谈话是私下进行的，但其重要性足以让周围的人明白，德北菲尔德一家现在比普通人有更重要的担忧需要谈论，而且他们漂亮的大女儿苔丝有着美好的前景。 。

‘Tess is a fine figure o’ fun, as I said to myself to-day when I zeed her vamping round parish with the rest,’ observed one of the elderly boozers in an undertone. ‘But Joan Durbeyfield must mind that she don’t get green malt in floor.’ It was a local phrase which had a peculiar meaning, and there was no reply.
“苔丝是个有趣的人物，今天当我和其他人一起看着她在教区里转来转去时，我对自己说，”一位年长的酒鬼低声说道。 “但是琼·德北菲尔德一定要注意，不要让绿麦芽沾到地板上。”这是当地的一个短语，具有特殊的含义，但没有得到答复。

The conversation became inclusive, and presently other footsteps were heard crossing the room below.
谈话变得包容起来，不久就听到其他脚步声穿过下面的房间。

‘—Being a few private friends asked in to-night to keep up club-walking at my own expense.’ The landlady had rapidly re-used the formula she kept on hand for intruders before she recognized that the newcomer was Tess.
“——今晚有几个私人朋友邀请我自费继续参加俱乐部活动。”女房东迅速重复使用了她手头上为入侵者准备的公式，然后才认出这个新来者是苔丝。

Even to her mother’s gaze the girl’s young features looked sadly out of place amid the alcoholic vapours which floated here as no unsuitable medium for wrinkled middle-age; and hardly was a reproachful flash from Tess’s dark eyes needed to make her father and mother rise from their seats, hastily finish their ale, and descend the stairs behind her, Mrs Rolliver’s caution following their footsteps.
即使在她母亲的眼中，女孩年轻的面容在酒精的烟雾中也显得格格不入，酒精的烟雾在这里飘荡，对于满脸皱纹的中年人来说，这并不是不合适的媒介。苔丝的黑眼睛里几乎不需要闪过一丝责备的光芒，她的父母就从座位上站起来，匆匆喝完麦酒，在她身后走下楼梯，罗利弗太太的谨慎跟随着他们的脚步。

‘No noise, please, if ye’ll be so good, my dears; or I mid lose my licends, and be summons’d, and I don’t know what all! ‘Night t’ye!’
“亲爱的，请不要吵闹，如果你们表现得这么好的话；或者我会失去我的执照，并被传唤，我不知道发生了什么！ “晚安！”

They went home together, Tess holding one arm of her father, and Mrs Durbeyfield the other. He had, in truth, drunk very little—not a fourth of the quantity which a systematic tippler could carry to church on a Sunday afternoon without a hitch in his eastings or genuflections; but the weakness of Sir John’s constitution made mountains of his petty sins in this kind. On reaching the fresh air he was sufficiently unsteady to incline the row of three at one moment as if they were marching to London, and at another as if they were marching to Bath—which produced a comical effect, frequent enough in families on nocturnal homegoings; and, like most comical effects, not quite so comic after all. The two women valiantly disguised these forced excursions and countermarches as well as they could from Durbeyfield, their cause, and from Abraham, and from themselves; and so they approached by degrees their own door, the head of the family bursting suddenly into his former refrain as he drew near, as if to fortify his soul at sight of the smallness of his present residence—
他们一起回家，苔丝挽着父亲的一只手臂，德北菲尔德夫人另一只手臂。事实上，他喝得很少——还不到周日下午经常喝酒的人在礼拜或跪拜时可以毫无障碍地带到教堂的四分之一。但约翰爵士的体质薄弱，使得他犯下的此类小罪如山。到达新鲜空气时，他摇摇晃晃地把三人的一排倾斜起来，一会儿好像他们正在前往伦敦，一会儿又好像他们正在前往巴斯——这产生了一种滑稽的效果，这在夜间回家的家庭中很常见。 ;而且，就像大多数喜剧效果一样，它毕竟不那么喜剧。这两个女人勇敢地掩饰了这些被迫的远足和反击，尽可能地掩饰她们的事业德北菲尔德、亚伯拉罕和她们自己。就这样，他们渐渐地走到了自家门口，一家之主在走近时突然爆发出他以前的克制，仿佛看到他现在住所的狭小，是为了让他的灵魂更加坚强——

‘I’ve got a fam—ily vault at Kingsbere!’
“我在金斯贝尔有一个家族金库！”

‘Hush—don’t be so silly, Jacky,’ said his wife. ‘Yours is not the only family that was of ‘count in wold days. Look at the Anktells, and Horseys, and the Tringhams themselves—gone to seed a’most as much as you—though you was bigger folks than they, that’s true. Thank God, I was never of no family, and have nothing to be ashamed of in that way!’
“嘘——别这么傻，杰基，”他的妻子说。 “你的家族并不是‘昔日’唯一有名气的家族。”看看安克特尔家族、霍西家族和特林厄姆家族本身——他们和你一样多地播种——尽管你比他们大，这是事实。感谢上帝，我从来都不是无家可归的人，因此没有什么可感到羞耻的！”

‘Don’t you be so sure o’ that. From you nater ‘tis my belief you’ve disgraced yourselves more than any o’ us, and was kings and queens outright at one time.’
“你难道不这么肯定吗？”从你看来，我相信你比我们任何人都更让自己丢脸，并且曾经是彻头彻尾的国王和王后。

Tess turned the subject by saying what was far more prominent in her own mind at the moment than thoughts of her ancestry—‘I am afraid father won’t be able to take the journey with the beehives to-morrow so early.’
苔丝转移了话题，说此刻她心里比对祖先的想法更重要的是——“恐怕父亲明天无法这么早就踏上蜂箱之旅了。”

‘I? I shall be all right in an hour or two,’ said Durbeyfield.
'我？ “一两个小时后我就会好起来的。”德北菲尔德说道。

It was eleven o’clock before the family were all in bed, and two o’clock next morning was the latest hour for starting with the beehives if they were to be delivered to the retailers in Casterbridge before the Saturday market began, the way thither lying by bad roads over a distance of between twenty and thirty miles, and the horse and waggon being of the slowest. At half-past one Mrs Durbeyfield came into the large bedroom where Tess and all her little brothers and sisters slept.
十一点钟，一家人都上床睡觉了，如果要在周六市场开始之前将蜂箱运送到卡斯特桥的零售商，那么第二天早上两点钟是开始处理蜂箱的最晚时间。路况不好，距离二十到三十英里，马车是最慢的。一点半，德北菲尔德太太走进苔丝和她所有的弟弟妹妹们睡觉的大卧室。

‘The poor man can’t go,’ she said to her eldest daughter, whose great eyes had opened the moment her mother’s hand touched the door.
“这个可怜的人不能走，”她对大女儿说，她母亲的手一碰上门，她的大眼睛就睁开了。

Tess sat up in bed, lost in a vague interspace between a dream and this information.
苔丝从床上坐起来，迷失在梦与这些信息之间的模糊间隙中。

‘But somebody must go,’ she replied. ‘It is late for the hives already. Swarming will soon be over for the year; and it we put off taking ‘em till next week’s market the call for ‘em will be past, and they’ll be thrown on our hands.’
“但是必须有人离开，”她回答道。 “对于荨麻疹来说已经很晚了。一年中的蜂拥而至即将结束；如果我们把它们推迟到下周的市场，那么对它们的需求就会成为过去，它们就会被扔到我们手上。

Mrs Durbeyfield looked unequal to the emergency. ‘Some young feller, perhaps, would go? One of them who were so much after dancing with ‘ee yesterday,’ she presently suggested.
德北菲尔德夫人看上去无法应对紧急情况。 “也许某个年轻人会去？其中一个人昨天和“ee”跳舞之后已经很长时间了，她很快建议道。

‘O no—I wouldn’t have it for the world!’ declared Tess proudly. ‘And letting everybody know the reason—such a thing to be ashamed of! I think I could go if Abraham could go with me to kip me company.’
“哦，不——我绝对不会拥有它！”苔丝自豪地宣称。 ‘并且让所有人都知道原因——这是一件令人羞耻的事情！我想如果亚伯拉罕能和我一起去陪伴我的话我就可以去。

Her mother at length agreed to this arrangement. Little Abraham was aroused from his deep sleep in a corner of the same apartment, and made to put on his clothes while still mentally in the other world. Meanwhile Tess had hastily dressed herself; and the twain, lighting a lantern, went out to the stable. The rickety little waggon was already laden, and the girl led out the horse, Prince, only a degree less rickety than the vehicle.
她的母亲最终同意了这个安排。小亚伯拉罕在同一间公寓的角落里从沉睡中被叫醒，并被迫穿上衣服，而他的精神仍然在另一个世界。与此同时，苔丝已经匆匆穿好衣服。两人点起灯笼，朝马厩走去。那辆摇摇晃晃的小马车已经装满了货物，女孩牵着那匹马，王子，只比车子摇摇晃晃的程度要轻一些。

The poor creature looked wonderingly round at the night, at the lantern, at their two figures, as if he could not believe that at that hour, when every living thing was intended to be in shelter and at rest, he was called upon to go out and labour. They put a stock of candle-ends into the lantern, hung the latter to the off-side of the load, and directed the horse onward, walking at his shoulder at first during the uphill parts of the way, in order not to overload an animal of so little vigour. To cheer themselves as well as they could, they made an artificial morning with the lantern, some bread and butter, and their own conversation, the real morning being far from come. Abraham, as he more fully awoke (for he had moved in a sort of trance so far), began to talk of the strange shapes assumed by the various dark objects against the sky; of this tree that looked like a raging tiger springing from a lair; of that which resembled a giant’s head.
这个可怜的家伙惊奇地环视着夜色，看着灯笼，看着他们两个人影，仿佛他无法相信，在那个时刻，当每一个生物都应该得到庇护和休息时，他却被召唤走了外出劳作。他们把一堆蜡烛头放进灯笼里，把灯笼挂在负载的另一边，然后指挥马向前走，在上坡路段时，首先在他的肩膀上行走，以免使马超载。精力如此之少的动物。为了尽可能地让自己高兴起来，他们用灯笼、一些面包和黄油以及自己的谈话创造了一个人造的早晨，真正的早晨还远未到来。亚伯拉罕完全清醒了（因为到目前为止他还处于一种恍惚状态），他开始谈论天空中各种黑暗物体所呈现的奇怪形状；这棵树看起来像一只从巢穴中跃出的愤怒的老虎；那个类似于巨人头的东西。

When they had passed the little town of Stourcastle, dumbly somnolent under its thick brown thatch, they reached higher ground. Still higher, on their left, the elevation called Bulbarrow, or Bealbarrow, well-nigh the highest in South Wessex, swelled into the sky, engirdled by its earthen trenches. From hereabout the long road was fairly level for some distance onward. They mounted in front of the waggon, and Abraham grew reflective.
当他们经过斯托卡斯尔小镇时，在厚厚的棕色茅草下昏昏欲睡，他们到达了更高的地方。更高的地方，在他们的左边，被称为布尔巴罗（Bulbarrow）或比尔巴罗（Bealbarrow）的高地，几乎是南威塞克斯的最高点，高耸入云，周围环绕着土壕。从这里开始，前面一段距离的长路相当平坦。他们登上马车，亚伯拉罕陷入沉思。

‘Tess!’ he said in a preparatory tone, after a silence.
“苔丝！”沉默过后，他用准备的语气说道。

‘Yes, Abraham.’
“是的，亚伯拉罕。”

‘Bain’t you glad that we’ve become gentlefolk?’
“我们变成绅士了，你不高兴吗？”

‘Not particular glad.’
“不是特别高兴。”

‘But you be glad that you ‘m going to marry a gentleman?’
“但是你很高兴你要嫁给一位绅士吗？”

‘What?’ said Tess, lifting her face.
“什么？”苔丝抬起头问道。

‘That our great relation will help ‘ee to marry a gentleman.’
“我们伟大的关系将帮助你嫁给一位绅士。”

‘I? Our great relation? We have no such relation. What has put that into your head?’
'我？我们的伟大关系？我们没有这样的关系。是什么让你产生了这样的想法？

‘I heard ‘em talking about it up at Rolliver’s when I went to find father. There’s a rich lady of our family out at Trantridge, and mother said that if you claimed kin with the lady, she’d put ‘ee in the way of marrying a gentleman.’
“当我去找父亲时，我在罗利弗家听到他们谈论这件事。我们家在特兰特里奇有一位富有的女士，母亲说，如果你声称与这位女士有亲属关系，她就会“妨碍你嫁给一位绅士”。

His sister became abruptly still, and lapsed into a pondering silence. Abraham talked on, rather for the pleasure of utterance than for audition, so that his sister’s abstraction was of no account. He leant back against the hives, and with upturned face made observations on the stars, whose cold pulses were beating amid the black hollows above, in serene dissociation from these two wisps of human life. He asked how far away those twinklers were, and whether God was on the other side of them. But ever and anon his childish prattle recurred to what impressed his imagination even more deeply than the wonders of creation. If Tess were made rich by marrying a gentleman, would she have money enough to buy a spyglass so large that it would draw the stars as near to her as Nettlecombe-Tout?
他的妹妹突然安静下来，陷入沉思的沉默中。亚伯拉罕继续讲下去，与其说是为了听，不如说是为了享受演讲的乐趣，所以他妹妹的心不在焉就无关紧要了。他靠在蜂巢上，仰着脸观察星星，星星的冰冷脉冲在头顶的黑色空洞中跳动，平静地与这两缕人类生命分离。他问那些闪烁的东西有多远，上帝是否在它们的另一边。但他那幼稚的胡言乱语时不时地会出现在他的想象力中，那些比创造的奇迹更深刻的东西。如果苔丝通过嫁给一位绅士而变得富有，她是否有足够的钱去购买一个如此大的望远镜，以至于它可以像内特尔科姆·图特一样将星星吸引到她身边？

The renewed subject, which seemed to have impregnated the whole family, filled Tess with impatience.
这个新的话题似乎已经影响了整个家庭，让苔丝变得不耐烦。

‘Never mind that now!’ she exclaimed.
“现在别管这个了！”她喊道。

‘Did you say the stars were worlds, Tess?’
“苔丝，你是说星星就是世界吗？”

‘Yes.’
'是的。'

‘All like ours?’
“都像我们一样吗？”

‘I don’t know; but I think so. They sometimes seem to be like the apples on our stubbard-tree. Most of them splendid and sound—a few blighted.’
'我不知道;但我认为是这样。它们有时看起来就像我们短梗树上的苹果。他们中的大多数都辉煌而健康，但有一些已经枯萎了。

‘Which do we live on—a splendid one or a blighted one?’
“我们靠哪一个为生——辉煌的还是破败的？”

‘A blighted one.’
“一个枯萎的人。”

‘‘Tis very unlucky that we didn’t pitch on a sound one, when there were so many more of ‘em!’
“非常不幸的是，我们没有找到一个健全的人，因为这样的人还有很多！”

‘Yes.’
'是的。'

‘Is it like that REALLY, Tess?’ said Abraham, turning to her much impressed, on reconsideration of this rare information. ‘How would it have been if we had pitched on a sound one?’
“真的是这样吗，苔丝？”亚伯拉罕在重新思考这个罕见的信息后转向她，留下了深刻的印象。 “如果我们选择了一个健全的方案，结果会怎样？”

‘Well, father wouldn’t have coughed and creeped about as he does, and wouldn’t have got too tipsy to go on this journey; and mother wouldn’t have been always washing, and never getting finished.’
“好吧，父亲不会像他那样咳嗽、爬来爬去，也不会喝得酩酊大醉而无法踏上这段旅程。妈妈就不会总是洗衣服，而且永远洗不完。”

‘And you would have been a rich lady ready-made, and not have had to be made rich by marrying a gentleman?’
“那你本来就是一个现成的富有的女士，而不必通过嫁给一个绅士来变得富有吗？”

‘O Aby, don’t—don’t talk of that any more!’
“哦，艾比，别——别再提这个了！”

Left to his reflections Abraham soon grew drowsy. Tess was not skilful in the management of a horse, but she thought that she could take upon herself the entire conduct of the load for the present and allow Abraham to go to sleep if he wished to do so. She made him a sort of nest in front of the hives, in such a manner that he could not fall, and, taking the reins into her own hands, jogged on as before.
亚伯拉罕独自沉思，很快就昏昏欲睡。苔丝不擅长驾驭马匹，但她认为她可以承担目前所有的负重工作，并允许亚伯拉罕入睡，如果他愿意的话。她在蜂巢前给他做了一个巢，这样他就不会摔倒，然后把缰绳握在自己手里，像以前一样慢跑。

Prince required but slight attention, lacking energy for superfluous movements of any sort. With no longer a companion to distract her, Tess fell more deeply into reverie than ever, her back leaning against the hives. The mute procession past her shoulders of trees and hedges became attached to fantastic scenes outside reality, and the occasional heave of the wind became the sigh of some immense sad soul, conterminous with the universe in space, and with history in time.
普林斯只需要一点点关注，缺乏精力进行任何多余的动作。苔丝不再有同伴来分散她的注意力，她背靠在蜂巢上，陷入了前所未有的沉思。沉默的队伍经过她肩上的树木和树篱，变得与现实之外的奇幻场景联系在一起，偶尔吹过的风变成了某个巨大悲伤灵魂的叹息，在空间上与宇宙相连，在时间上与历史相连。

Then, examining the mesh of events in her own life, she seemed to see the vanity of her father’s pride; the gentlemanly suitor awaiting herself in her mother’s fancy; to see him as a grimacing personage, laughing at her poverty and her shrouded knightly ancestry. Everything grew more and more extravagant, and she no longer knew how time passed. A sudden jerk shook her in her seat, and Tess awoke from the sleep into which she, too, had fallen.
然后，审视自己生活中发生的一系列事件，她似乎看到了父亲的骄傲是虚荣的。那位绅士的求婚者在她母亲的想象中等待着自己；把他视为一个做鬼脸的人物，嘲笑她的贫穷和她隐秘的骑士血统。一切都变得越来越奢侈，她已经不知道时间是怎么过去的了。突然，苔丝在座位上猛地一抖，她也从睡梦中醒来。

They were a long way further on than when she had lost consciousness, and the waggon had stopped. A hollow groan, unlike anything she had ever heard in her life, came from the front, followed by a shout of ‘Hoi there!’
与她失去知觉时相比，他们已经走了很长一段路，马车也停了下来。前方传来了她一生中从未听过的空洞呻吟声，接着是一声“嗨！”的喊叫。

The lantern hanging at her waggon had gone out, but another was shining in her face—much brighter than her own had been. Something terrible had happened. The harness was entangled with an object which blocked the way.
她马车上挂的灯笼已经灭了，但另一盏灯照在她脸上——比她自己的亮得多。发生了一些可怕的事情。安全带被一个挡路的物体缠住了。

In consternation Tess jumped down, and discovered the dreadful truth. The groan had proceeded from her father’s poor horse Prince. The morning mail-cart, with its two noiseless wheels, speeding along these lanes like an arrow, as it always did, had driven into her slow and unlighted equipage. The pointed shaft of the cart had entered the breast of the unhappy Prince like a sword, and from the wound his life’s blood was spouting in a stream, and falling with a hiss into the road.
惊慌失措的苔丝跳了下去，发现了可怕的事实。呻吟声是从她父亲那匹可怜的马王子那里发出的。早上的邮车，有两个无声的轮子，像往常一样，像箭一样沿着这些小巷飞驰，驶进了她那辆缓慢而没有灯光的马车里。马车的尖头像一把剑一样刺入了不幸的王子的胸口，他的生命之血从伤口中喷涌而出，嘶嘶地掉到路上。

In her despair Tess sprang forward and put her hand upon the hole, with the only result that she became splashed from face to skirt with the crimson drops. Then she stood helplessly looking on. Prince also stood firm and motionless as long as he could; till he suddenly sank down in a heap.
苔丝绝望地跳上前去，把手放在洞口上，结果她的脸上和裙子上都溅满了深红色的水滴。然后她就站在那儿无助地看着。普林斯也尽可能地坚定地站着，一动不动。直到他突然瘫倒在地。

By this time the mail-cart man had joined her, and began dragging and unharnessing the hot form of Prince. But he was already dead, and, seeing that nothing more could be done immediately, the mail-cart man returned to his own animal, which was uninjured.
这时，邮车人也加入了她的行列，开始拖拽王子的火辣身躯并解开他的安全带。但他已经死了，邮车人看到没有什么可以立即做的，就回到了他自己的动物身边，它没有受伤。

‘You was on the wrong side,’ he said. ‘I am bound to go on with the mail-bags, so that the best thing for you to do is bide here with your load. I’ll send somebody to help you as soon as I can. It is getting daylight, and you have nothing to fear.’
“你站错了一边，”他说。 “我得继续搬运邮袋，所以对你来说最好的办法就是带着你的行李待在这里。”我会尽快派人来帮助你。天已经亮了，你没什么好害怕的。”

He mounted and sped on his way; while Tess stood and waited. The atmosphere turned pale, the birds shook themselves in the hedges, arose, and twittered; the lane showed all its white features, and Tess showed hers, still whiter. The huge pool of blood in front of her was already assuming the iridescence of coagulation; and when the sun rose a hundred prismatic hues were reflected from it. Prince lay alongside, still and stark; his eyes half open, the hole in his chest looking scarcely large enough to have let out all that had animated him.
他骑上马，疾驰上路。苔丝站着等待。气氛变得苍白，鸟儿在树篱里摇晃着身子，站起来，叽叽喳喳地叫着。小巷里所有的白色特征都显露出来，苔丝也显露出了她的特征，而且更白。她面前的巨大血泊，已经呈现出凝固的虹彩。当太阳升起时，它会反射出一百种棱柱色彩。普林斯躺在旁边，一动不动，面无表情。他的眼睛半睁着，胸口上的洞看起来几乎没有大到足以释放出所有让他兴奋的东西。

‘‘Tis all my doing—all mine!’ the girl cried, gazing at the spectacle. ‘No excuse for me—none. What will mother and father live on now? Aby, Aby!’ She shook the child, who had slept soundly through the whole disaster. ‘We can’t go on with our load—Prince is killed!’
“这都是我干的——都是我干的！”女孩看着眼前的景象，喊道。 “我没有任何借口——没有。爸爸妈妈现在靠什么生活？艾比，艾比！”她摇晃着孩子，孩子在整个灾难中都睡得很香。 “我们无法继续负重——王子被杀了！”

When Abraham realized all, the furrows of fifty years were extemporized on his young face.
当亚伯拉罕意识到这一切的时候，五十年来的皱纹在他年轻的脸上即刻浮现出来。

‘Why, I danced and laughed only yesterday!’ she went on to herself. ‘To think that I was such a fool!’
“哎呀，我昨天才跳舞、笑过！”她自言自语道。 “没想到我真是个傻瓜！”

‘‘Tis because we be on a blighted star, and not a sound one, isn’t it, Tess?’ murmured Abraham through his tears.
“这是因为我们生活在一颗枯萎的恒星上，而不是一颗完好的恒星，不是吗，苔丝？”亚伯拉罕流着泪低声说道。

In silence they waited through an interval which seemed endless. At length a sound, and an approaching object, proved to them that the driver of the mail-car had been as good as his word. A farmer’s man from near Stourcastle came up, leading a strong cob. He was harnessed to the waggon of beehives in the place of Prince, and the load taken on towards Casterbridge.
他们默默地等待着一段似乎没有尽头的间隙。最后，一声声音和一个接近的物体向他们证明了邮车司机言出必行。斯托卡斯尔附近的一个农夫牵着一只强壮的雄天鹅走了过来。他代替普林斯被套上蜂箱马车，并把负载运往卡斯特桥。

The evening of the same day saw the empty waggon reach again the spot of the accident. Prince had lain there in the ditch since the morning; but the place of the blood-pool was still visible in the middle of the road, though scratched and scraped over by passing vehicles. All that was left of Prince was now hoisted into the waggon he had formerly hauled, and with his hoofs in the air, and his shoes shining in the setting sunlight, he retraced the eight or nine miles to Marlott.
当天傍晚，空车再次抵达事故现场。普林斯从早上起就躺在沟里。尽管被过往的车辆刮过、刮过，路中央的血泊处仍然清晰可见。普林斯剩下的一切现在都被吊进了他以前拖过的马车里，他的蹄子在空中，他的鞋子在夕阳下闪闪发光，他折回了八九英里到达马洛特。

Tess had gone back earlier. How to break the news was more than she could think. It was a relief to her tongue to find from the faces of her parents that they already knew of their loss, though this did not lessen the self-reproach which she continued to heap upon herself for her negligence.
苔丝早些时候就回去了。如何爆料这个消息，超乎她的想象。当她从父母的脸上发现他们已经知道自己失去了亲人时，她的舌头感到松了口气，尽管这并没有减轻她继续为自己的疏忽而自责。

But the very shiftlessness of the household rendered the misfortune a less terrifying one to them than it would have been to a thriving family, though in the present case it meant ruin, and in the other it would only have meant inconvenience. In the Durbeyfield countenances there was nothing of the red wrath that would have burnt upon the girl from parents more ambitious for her welfare. Nobody blamed Tess as she blamed herself.
但是，家庭的无能使得这种不幸对他们来说不像对一个兴旺的家庭那么可怕，尽管在目前的情况下，这意味着毁灭，而在另一种情况下，它只会意味着不便。德北菲尔德一家人的脸上并没有表现出父母对女孩的幸福抱有更大的野心，而对这个女孩燃起的红色愤怒。没有人责怪苔丝，就像她责怪自己一样。

When it was discovered that the knacker and tanner would give only a very few shillings for Prince’s carcase because of his decrepitude, Durbeyfield rose to the occasion.
当人们发现屠宰者和制革商因为普林斯的年老而只愿意出很少的先令来买他的尸体时，德北菲尔德就采取了行动。

‘No,’ said he stoically, ‘I won’t sell his old body. When we d’Urbervilles was knights in the land, we didn’t sell our chargers for cat’s meat. Let ‘em keep their shillings! He’ve served me well in his lifetime, and I won’t part from him now.’
“不，”他坚忍地说，“我不会出卖他的旧身体。”当我们德伯家还是这片土地上的骑士时，我们不会为了猫肉而出售我们的充电器。让他们保留先令吧！他一生为我服务很好，我现在不会离开他。”

He worked harder the next day in digging a grave for Prince in the garden than he had worked for months to grow a crop for his family. When the hole was ready, Durbeyfield and his wife tied a rope round the horse and dragged him up the path towards it, the children following in funeral train. Abraham and ‘Liza-Lu sobbed, Hope and Modesty discharged their griefs in loud blares which echoed from the walls; and when Prince was tumbled in they gathered round the grave. The bread-winner had been taken away from them; what would they do?
第二天，他在花园里为普林斯挖了一个坟墓，比他几个月来为家人种植庄稼所做的工作还要辛苦。当洞准备好后，德北菲尔德和他的妻子在马身上绑了一根绳子，拖着他沿着小路走向洞，孩子们在送葬队伍中跟在后面。亚伯拉罕和丽莎鲁抽泣着，霍普和谦虚则用响亮的声音宣泄着他们的悲伤，声音在墙壁上回荡；当普林斯跌倒时，他们聚集在坟墓周围。养家糊口的人被夺走了；他们会做什么？

‘Is he gone to heaven?’ asked Abraham, between the sobs.
“他去天堂了吗？”亚伯拉罕抽泣着问道。

Then Durbeyfield began to shovel in the earth, and the children cried anew. All except Tess. Her face was dry and pale, as though she regarded herself in the light of a murderess.
然后德北菲尔德开始铲土，孩子们又哭了。除了苔丝之外，所有人都在。她的脸干燥而苍白，仿佛她把自己视为一个女凶手。

V

The haggling business, which had mainly depended on the horse, became disorganized forthwith. Distress, if not penury, loomed in the distance. Durbeyfield was what was locally called a slack-twisted fellow; he had good strength to work at times; but the times could not be relied on to coincide with the hours of requirement; and, having been unaccustomed to the regular toil of the day-labourer, he was not particularly persistent when they did so coincide.
原本主要依靠马匹的讨价还价生意立刻变得杂乱无章。痛苦，即使不是贫困，也隐约出现在远处。德北菲尔德在当地被称为“松弛扭曲的家伙”。他有时工作起来精力充沛；但不能保证时间与要求的时间一致；而且，由于不习惯临时工的日常劳作，当他们同时这样做时，他并不是特别坚持。

Tess, meanwhile, as the one who had dragged her parents into this quagmire, was silently wondering what she could do to help them out of it; and then her mother broached her scheme.
与此同时，苔丝作为那个把她的父母拖入泥潭的人，默默地思考着自己能做些什么来帮助他们摆脱困境；然后她的母亲提出了她的计划。

‘We must take the ups wi’ the downs, Tess,’ said she; ‘and never could your high blood have been found out at a more called-for moment. You must try your friends. Do ye know that there is a very rich Mrs d’Urberville living on the outskirts o’ The Chase, who must be our relation? You must go to her and claim kin, and ask for some help in our trouble.’
“苔丝，我们必须经受住起起落落，”她说。 “你的高血压是在最需要的时刻被发现的。”你一定要试试你的朋友。你们知道吗，蔡斯郊区住着一位非常富有的德伯维尔夫人，她一定是我们的亲戚？你必须去找她，认领亲属，并在我们遇到麻烦时寻求帮助。

‘I shouldn’t care to do that,’ says Tess. ‘If there is such a lady, ‘twould be enough for us if she were friendly—not to expect her to give us help.’
“我不应该这么做，”苔丝说。 “如果有这样一位女士，‘如果她很友善，对我们来说就足够了——不要指望她给我们帮助。’”

‘You could win her round to do anything, my dear. Besides, perhaps there’s more in it than you know of. I’ve heard what I’ve heard, good-now.’
“亲爱的，你可以让她做任何事。”此外，也许其中的内容比你知道的还要多。我已经听到了我所听到的，现在好。

The oppressive sense of the harm she had done led Tess to be more deferential than she might otherwise have been to the maternal wish; but she could not understand why her mother should find such satisfaction in contemplating an enterprise of, to her, such doubtful profit. Her mother might have made inquiries, and have discovered that this Mrs d’Urberville was a lady of unequalled virtues and charity. But Tess’s pride made the part of poor relation one of particular distaste to her.
苔丝对自己所造成的伤害感到压抑，因此更加尊重母亲的愿望。但她不明白为什么她的母亲会在考虑一项对她来说利润如此可疑的企业时感到如此满足。她的母亲可能打听过，发现这位德伯维尔夫人是一位具有无与伦比的美德和慈善事业的女士。但苔丝的骄傲使她特别厌恶这个穷亲戚的角色。

‘I’d rather try to get work,’ she murmured.
“我宁愿尝试去找工作，”她低声说道。

‘Durbeyfield, you can settle it,’ said his wife, turning to where he sat in the background. ‘If you say she ought to go, she will go.’
“德北，你可以解决的，”他的妻子转向他坐在后面的位置说道。 “如果你说她应该走，她就会走。”

‘I don’t like my children going and making themselves beholden to strange kin,’ murmured he. ‘I’m the head of the noblest branch o’ the family, and I ought to live up to it.’
“我不喜欢我的孩子们去受陌生亲戚的影响，”他低声说道。 “我是这个家族最高贵分支的族长，我应该不辜负这一点。”

His reasons for staying away were worse to Tess than her own objections to going. ‘Well, as I killed the horse, mother,’ she said mournfully, ‘I suppose I ought to do something. I don’t mind going and seeing her, but you must leave it to me about asking for help. And don’t go thinking about her making a match for me—it is silly.’
对苔丝来说，他不去的原因比她自己反对去的原因更糟糕。 “嗯，妈妈，我杀了马，”她悲伤地说，“我想我应该做点什么。”我不介意去见见她，但寻求帮助的事就得交给我了。别想着她会为我做媒——这很愚蠢。”

‘Very well said, Tess!’ observed her father sententiously.
“说得很好，苔丝！”她父亲简短地说。

‘Who said I had such a thought?’ asked Joan.
“谁说我有这样的想法？”琼问道。

‘I fancy it is in your mind, mother. But I’ll go.’
“我想这就是你的想法，妈妈。但我会去。

Rising early next day she walked to the hill-town called Shaston, and there took advantage of a van which twice in the week ran from Shaston eastward to Chaseborough, passing near Trantridge, the parish in which the vague and mysterious Mrs d’Urberville had her residence.
第二天一早就起床，她步行到了一个叫沙斯顿的山城，在那里乘了一辆面包车，每周两次从沙斯顿向东开往蔡斯伯勒，经过特兰特里奇附近，那个模糊而神秘的德伯维尔夫人曾在这个教区居住过。她的住所。

Tess Durbeyfield’s route on this memorable morning lay amid the north-eastern undulations of the Vale in which she had been born, and in which her life had unfolded. The Vale of Blackmoor was to her the world, and its inhabitants the races thereof. From the gates and stiles of Marlott she had looked down its length in the wondering days of infancy, and what had been mystery to her then was not much less than mystery to her now. She had seen daily from her chamber-window towers, villages, faint white mansions; above all, the town of Shaston standing majestically on its height; its windows shining like lamps in the evening sun. She had hardly ever visited the place, only a small tract even of the Vale and its environs being known to her by close inspection. Much less had she been far outside the valley. Every contour of the surrounding hills was as personal to her as that of her relatives’ faces; but for what lay beyond, her judgment was dependent on the teaching of the village school, where she had held a leading place at the time of her leaving, a year or two before this date.
在这个令人难忘的早晨，苔丝·德北菲尔德的路线位于山谷东北部的起伏之中，她出生在那里，她的人生也在那里展开。布莱克莫尔谷对她来说就是世界，它的居民就是其中的种族。在婴儿期的奇妙日子里，她曾从马洛特的大门和阶梯上俯视着它的长度，当时对她来说神秘的东西对她来说同样是神秘的。她每天都从她的房间窗子里看到塔楼、村庄、隐约可见的白色大厦。最重要的是，沙斯顿镇雄伟地矗立在高处；它的窗户在傍晚的阳光下像灯一样闪闪发光。她几乎从来没有去过这个地方，即使是山谷及其周边地区的一小部分她也只是通过仔细观察才知道的。更不用说她已经远离山谷了。周围群山的每一个轮廓对她来说都像她亲戚的脸一样私人。但对于接下来的事情，她的判断取决于乡村学校的教学，在她离开时（即这一日期之前的一两年），她在乡村学校中处于领先地位。

In those early days she had been much loved by others of her own sex and age, and had used to be seen about the village as one of three—all nearly of the same year—walking home from school side by side; Tess the middle one—in a pink print pinafore, of a finely reticulated pattern, worn over a stuff frock that had lost its original colour for a nondescript tertiary—marching on upon long stalky legs, in tight stockings which had little ladder-like holes at the knees, torn by kneeling in the roads and banks in search of vegetable and mineral treasures; her then earth-coloured hair hanging like pot-hooks; the arms of the two outside girls resting round the waist of Tess; her arms on the shoulders of the two supporters.
早年，她深受同性同龄人的喜爱，人们常常看到她是村里三个人中的一个——几乎都是同一年的——并肩从学校走回家；中间的苔丝——穿着粉红色印花围裙，有精美的网状图案，外面穿了一件已经失去了原来颜色的布料连衣裙，变成了不起眼的第三种——迈着修长的腿，穿着有梯子状小孔的紧身长袜。膝盖处，因跪在道路和河岸寻找蔬菜和矿物宝藏而撕裂；她那时土色的头发像锅钩一样垂下来；外面两个女孩的手臂搂着苔丝的腰；她的手臂搭在两名支持者的肩膀上。

As Tess grew older, and began to see how matters stood, she felt quite a Malthusian towards her mother for thoughtlessly giving her so many little sisters and brothers, when it was such a trouble to nurse and provide for them. Her mother’s intelligence was that of a happy child: Joan Durbeyfield was simply an additional one, and that not the eldest, to her own long family of waiters on Providence.
随着苔丝渐渐长大，开始明白事情的真相，她对她的母亲产生了一种马尔萨斯式的看法，因为她不经意地给了她这么多的小兄弟姐妹，而照顾他们是一件很麻烦的事情。她母亲的智力就像一个快乐的孩子：对于她在普罗维登斯的侍者家族来说，琼·德北菲尔德只是一个额外的孩子，而不是最年长的孩子。

However, Tess became humanely beneficent towards the small ones, and to help them as much as possible she used, as soon as she left school, to lend a hand at haymaking or harvesting on neighbouring farms; or, by preference, at milking or butter-making processes, which she had learnt when her father had owned cows; and being deft-fingered it was a kind of work in which she excelled.
然而，苔丝对小孩子们变得仁慈仁慈，为了尽可能地帮助他们，她一离开学校就去附近的农场帮忙干草或收割；或者，她更喜欢挤奶或黄油制作过程，这是她在父亲拥有奶牛时学到的。她的手指灵巧，这正是她擅长的工作。

Every day seemed to throw upon her young shoulders more of the family burdens, and that Tess should be the representative of the Durbeyfields at the d’Urberville mansion came as a thing of course. In this instance it must be admitted that the Durbeyfields were putting their fairest side outward.
每一天，她年轻的肩膀上似乎都承担着更多的家庭负担，苔丝理所当然地成为德伯维尔宅邸中德北菲尔德家族的代表。在这种情况下，必须承认德北菲尔德夫妇把他们最公平的一面暴露了出来。

She alighted from the van at Trantridge Cross, and ascended on foot a hill in the direction of the district known as The Chase, on the borders of which, as she had been informed, Mrs d’Urberville’s seat, The Slopes, would be found. It was not a manorial home in the ordinary sense, with fields, and pastures, and a grumbling farmer, out of whom the owner had to squeeze an income for himself and his family by hook or by crook. It was more, far more; a country-house built for enjoyment pure and simple, with not an acre of troublesome land attached to it beyond what was required for residential purposes, and for a little fancy farm kept in hand by the owner, and tended by a bailiff.
她在特兰特里奇十字车站下车，步行登上一座小山，朝蔡斯区方向走去，据她所知，在该区的边界上，可以找到德伯维尔夫人的座位“斜坡”。 。这不是一般意义上的庄园，有田地，有牧场，还有一个牢骚满腹的农民，主人必须从他们身上不择手段地为自己和家人榨取收入。它更多，更多；更多。一座纯粹为了享受而建造的乡间别墅，除了住宅用途之外，没有一英亩麻烦的土地，还有一个由业主保留的小农场，并由一名法警照料。

The crimson brick lodge came first in sight, up to its eaves in dense evergreens. Tess thought this was the mansion itself till, passing through the side wicket with some trepidation, and onward to a point at which the drive took a turn, the house proper stood in full view. It was of recent erection—indeed almost new—and of the same rich red colour that formed such a contrast with the evergreens of the lodge. Far behind the corner of the house—which rose like a geranium bloom against the subdued colours around—stretched the soft azure landscape of The Chase—a truly venerable tract of forest land, one of the few remaining woodlands in England of undoubted primaeval date, wherein Druidical mistletoe was still found on aged oaks, and where enormous yew-trees, not planted by the hand of man grew as they had grown when they were pollarded for bows. All this sylvan antiquity, however, though visible from The Slopes, was outside the immediate boundaries of the estate.
首先映入眼帘的是深红色的砖砌小屋，茂密的常青树一直延伸到屋檐。苔丝以为这就是宅邸本身，直到她怀着忐忑不安的心情穿过侧门，一直走到车道拐弯的地方，宅邸的轮廓尽收眼底。它是最近建造的——实际上几乎是新的——并且具有同样浓郁的红色，与小屋的常青树形成鲜明对比。房子的角落后面很远——在周围柔和的色彩衬托下，它像天竺葵一样升起——伸展着蔡斯柔和的蔚蓝风景——一片真正古老的林地，是英格兰仅存的几处毫无疑问具有原始年代的林地之一，在那里，古老的橡树上仍然发现了德鲁伊教的槲寄生，还有巨大的紫杉树，这些树不是由人类手工种植的，它们的生长方式与它们被摘去树干作为弓时的生长方式相同。然而，尽管从斜坡上可以看到所有这些古老的森林，却位于庄园的直接边界之外。

Everything on this snug property was bright, thriving, and well kept; acres of glass-houses stretched down the inclines to the copses at their feet. Everything looked like money—like the last coin issued from the Mint. The stables, partly screened by Austrian pines and evergreen oaks, and fitted with every late appliance, were as dignified as Chapels-of-Ease. On the extensive lawn stood an ornamental tent, its door being towards her.
这处舒适的土地上的一切都明亮、繁荣、维护得很好。数英亩的玻璃屋沿着斜坡一直延伸到脚下的灌木丛。一切看起来都像钱——就像造币厂发行的最后一枚硬币。马厩的一部分被奥地利松树和常绿橡树遮蔽，并配备了所有最新的器具，像安逸教堂一样庄严。宽阔的草坪上立着一座装饰性的帐篷，帐篷的门正对着她。

Simple Tess Durbeyfield stood at gaze, in a half-alarmed attitude, on the edge of the gravel sweep. Her feet had brought her onward to this point before she had quite realized where she was; and now all was contrary to her expectation.
单纯的苔丝·德北菲尔德站在砾石扫过的边缘，以一种半惊慌的态度凝视着。在她完全意识到自己在哪里之前，她的脚已经把她带到了这里。而现在一切却出乎她的意料。

‘I thought we were an old family; but this is all new!’ she said, in her artlessness. She wished that she had not fallen in so readily with her mother’s plans for ‘claiming kin,’ and had endeavoured to gain assistance nearer home.
“我以为我们是一个古老的家庭；但这是全新的！”她天真地说道。她希望自己没有那么容易陷入母亲“认亲”的计划，并努力在离家较近的地方获得帮助。

The d’Urbervilles—or Stoke-d’Urbervilles, as they at first called themselves—who owned all this, were a somewhat unusual family to find in such an old-fashioned part of the country. Parson Tringham had spoken truly when he said that our shambling John Durbeyfield was the only really lineal representative of the old d’Urberville family existing in the county, or near it; he might have added, what he knew very well, that the Stoke-d’Urbervilles were no more d’Urbervilles of the true tree then he was himself. Yet it must be admitted that this family formed a very good stock whereon to regraft a name which sadly wanted such renovation.
德伯维尔家族——或者他们最初自称斯托克-德伯维尔家族——拥有这一切，在这个国家如此古老的地区，这是一个有点不寻常的家庭。特林汉姆牧师说我们那条步履蹒跚的约翰·德北菲尔德是这个县或附近的老德伯维尔家族唯一真正的直系代表，他说得真对。他很清楚，他可能会补充说，斯托克-德伯维尔家族不再是真正的德伯维尔家族，就像他自己一样。然而，必须承认的是，这个家族拥有非常好的血统，可以在此基础上重新命名，但不幸的是，他们希望进行这样的改造。

When old Mr Simon Stoke, latterly deceased, had made his fortune as an honest merchant (some said money-lender) in the North, he decided to settle as a county man in the South of England, out of hail of his business district; and in doing this he felt the necessity of recommencing with a name that would not too readily identify him with the smart tradesman of the past, and that would be less commonplace than the original bald, stark words. Conning for an hour in the British Museum the pages of works devoted to extinct, half-extinct, obscured, and ruined families appertaining to the quarter of England in which he proposed to settle, he considered that d’Urberville looked and sounded as well as any of them: and d’Urberville accordingly was annexed to his own name for himself and his heirs eternally. Yet he was not an extravagant-minded man in this, and in constructing his family tree on the new basis was duly reasonable in framing his inter-marriages and aristocratic links, never inserting a single title above a rank of strict moderation.
刚刚去世的老西蒙·斯托克先生在北方作为一名诚实的商人（有人说是放债人）发了财，他决定在英格兰南部作为一名县人定居，远离他的商业区。在这样做的过程中，他觉得有必要重新起一个名字，这个名字不会太容易把他与过去的聪明商人联系起来，也不会像原来的秃头、赤裸裸的词那么常见。他在大英博物馆里花了一个小时翻阅有关他打算定居的英格兰地区的已灭绝、半灭绝、模糊和毁灭家庭的书籍，他认为德伯维尔看起来和听起来都很好。他们中的任何一个：德伯维尔因此被永远地附在他自己的名字中，为他自己和他的继承人服务。然而，他在这方面并不是一个奢侈的人，在新的基础上构建他的家谱，在构建他的通婚和贵族联系方面是适当合理的，从来没有在严格节制的等级之上插入任何头衔。

Of this work of imagination poor Tess and her parents were naturally in ignorance—much to their discomfiture; indeed, the very possibility of such annexations was unknown to them; who supposed that, though to be well-favoured might be the gift of fortune, a family name came by nature.
对于这项想象力的工作，可怜的苔丝和她的父母自然一无所知——这让他们很沮丧。事实上，他们根本不知道这种吞并的可能性。谁以为受宠虽是福气，姓氏却是天生的。

Tess still stood hesitating like a bather about to make his plunge, hardly knowing whether to retreat or to persevere, when a figure came forth from the dark triangular door of the tent. It was that of a tall young man, smoking.
苔丝还站在那儿，像沐浴者一样犹豫着要跳下去，几乎不知道是该退却还是该坚持，这时一个人影从帐篷的黑暗三角门中走了出来。那是一个身材高大的年轻人，正在抽烟。

He had an almost swarthy complexion, with full lips, badly moulded, though red and smooth, above which was a well-groomed black moustache with curled points, though his age could not be more than threeor four-and-twenty. Despite the touches of barbarism in his contours, there was a singular force in the gentleman’s face, and in his bold rolling eye.
他的肤色几乎是黝黑的，嘴唇丰满，虽然又红又光滑，但形状很糟糕，上面是精心修饰的卷曲的黑胡子，尽管他的年龄不会超过三岁或四岁二十岁。尽管他的轮廓有些野蛮，但这位绅士的脸上和他大胆的转动的眼睛里却有一种独特的力量。

‘Well, my Beauty, what can I do for you?’ said he, coming forward. And perceiving that she stood quite confounded: ‘Never mind me. I am Mr d’Urberville. Have you come to see me or my mother?’
“好吧，我的美人，有什么可以帮您的吗？”他走上前来说道。发现她站得很困惑：“别管我。”我是德伯维尔先生。你是来看我还是我妈妈？

This embodiment of a d’Urberville and a namesake differed even more from what Tess had expected than the house and grounds had differed. She had dreamed of an aged and dignified face, the sublimation of all the d’Urberville lineaments, furrowed with incarnate memories representing in hieroglyphic the centuries of her family’s and England’s history. But she screwed herself up to the work in hand, since she could not get out of it, and answered—
这个德伯维尔和同名人物的化身与苔丝的预期的不同甚至比房子和庭院的不同还要大。她梦想着一张苍老而庄重的脸，是德伯维尔所有轮廓的升华，上面布满了化身的记忆，以象形文字代表了她家族和英格兰几个世纪的历史。但她却一心扑在手头的工作上，因为她无法摆脱它，她回答道——

‘I came to see your mother, sir.’
“我是来看你母亲的，先生。”

‘I am afraid you cannot see her—she is an invalid,’ replied the present representative of the spurious house; for this was Mr Alec, the only son of the lately deceased gentleman. ‘Cannot I answer your purpose? What is the business you wish to see her about?’
“恐怕你看不到她——她是个病人，”假房子的代表回答道。因为这是亚历克先生，刚刚去世的绅士的独生子。 ‘我不能回答你的目的吗？你想见她有什么事吗？

‘It isn’t business—it is—I can hardly say what!’
“这不是生意——而是——我很难说是什么！”

‘Pleasure?’
'乐趣？'

‘Oh no. Why, sir, if I tell you, it will seem—‘
'不好了。为什么，先生，如果我告诉你，看起来——”

Tess’s sense of a certain ludicrousness in her errand was now so strong that, notwithstanding her awe of him, and her general discomfort at being here, her rosy lips curved towards a smile, much to the attraction of the swarthy Alexander.
苔丝现在强烈地感觉到她的差事有些荒唐可笑，尽管她对他心生敬畏，而且对在这里感到不舒服，但她玫瑰色的嘴唇却弯起微笑，这对黝黑的亚历山大很有吸引力。

‘It is so very foolish,’ she stammered; ‘I fear can’t tell you!’
“这真是太愚蠢了，”她结结巴巴地说。 “我恐怕不能告诉你！”

‘Never mind; I like foolish things. Try again, my dear,’ said he kindly.
'没关系;我喜欢愚蠢的事情。再试一次，亲爱的，”他和蔼地说。

‘Mother asked me to come,’ Tess continued; ‘and, indeed, I was in the mind to do so myself likewise. But I did not think it would be like this. I came, sir, to tell you that we are of the same family as you.’
“妈妈叫我来，”苔丝继续说道。 “事实上，我自己也想这么做。”但我没想到会是这样。先生，我来是想告诉您，我们和您是一家人。”

‘Ho! Poor relations?’
‘嗬！关系不好？

‘Yes.’
'是的。'

‘Stokes?’
“斯托克斯？”

‘No; d’Urbervilles.’
'不;德伯维尔。

‘Ay, ay; I mean d’Urbervilles.’
‘哎呀，哎呀；我指的是德伯维尔。

‘Our names are worn away to Durbeyfield; but we have several proofs that we are d’Urbervilles. Antiquarians hold we are,—and—and we have an old seal, marked with a ramping lion on a shield, and a castle over him. And we have a very old silver spoon, round in the bowl like a little ladle, and marked with the same castle. But it is so worn that mother uses it to stir the pea-soup.’
“我们的名字已经被德北菲尔德磨蚀了；但我们有几个证据证明我们是德伯家。古文物学家认为我们是——而且——我们有一个古老的印章，盾牌上刻着一只猛冲的狮子，上面有一座城堡。我们还有一把非常古老的银勺子，像小勺子一样放在碗里，上面刻着同样的城堡。但它太旧了，妈妈用它来搅拌豌豆汤。”

‘A castle argent is certainly my crest,’ said he blandly. ‘And my arms a lion rampant.’
“银色城堡无疑是我的徽章，”他温和地说。 “我的手臂是一头猖獗的狮子。”

‘And so mother said we ought to make ourselves beknown to you—as we’ve lost our horse by a bad accident, and are the oldest branch o’ the family.’
“所以妈妈说我们应该让你知道我们的情况——因为我们在一场严重的事故中失去了我们的马，而且我们是家里最古老的分支。”

‘Very kind of your mother, I’m sure. And I, for one, don’t regret her step.’ Alec looked at Tess as he spoke, in a way that made her blush a little. ‘And so, my pretty girl, you’ve come on a friendly visit to us, as relations?’
“我确信你的母亲非常友善。就我而言，我并不后悔她的决定。”亚历克边说边看着苔丝，他的眼神让她有点脸红。 “这么说来，我漂亮的女孩，你是以亲戚的身份来对我们进行友好访问的吗？”

‘I suppose I have,’ faltered Tess, looking uncomfortable again.
“我想是的。”苔丝结结巴巴地说，看上去又不自在了。

‘Well—there’s no harm in it. Where do you live? What are you?’
“嗯——这没什么坏处。你住在哪里？你是做什么的？'

She gave him brief particulars; and responding to further inquiries told him that she was intending to go back by the same carrier who had brought her.
她向他提供了简短的细节；进一步的询问告诉他，她打算乘坐送她来的同一家航空公司回去。

‘It is a long while before he returns past Trantridge Cross. Supposing we walk round the grounds to pass the time, my pretty Coz?’
“他过了特兰特里奇十字路口才回来。”假设我们在庭院里散步来打发时间，我可爱的科兹？

Tess wished to abridge her visit as much as possible; but the young man was pressing, and she consented to accompany him. He conducted her about the lawns, and flower-beds, and conservatories; and thence to the fruit-garden and greenhouses, where he asked her if she liked strawberries.
苔丝希望尽可能缩短她的访问时间。但年轻人催促，她同意陪他一起去。他带她参观了草坪、花坛和温室。然后到果园和温室，在那里他问她是否喜欢草莓。

‘Yes,’ said Tess, ‘when they come.’
“是的，”苔丝说，“等他们来的时候。”

‘They are already here.’ D’Urberville began gathering specimens of the fruit for her, handing them back to her as he stooped; and, presently, selecting a specially fine product of the ‘British Queen’ variety, he stood up and held it by the stem to her mouth.
“他们已经在这里了。”德伯维尔开始为她收集水果样本，弯下腰把它们还给她。不久，他选择了“英国女王”品种的一种特别优质的产品，站起来，抓住它的茎放在她的嘴边。

‘No—no!’ she said quickly, putting her fingers between his hand and her lips. ‘I would rather take it in my own hand.’
“不——不！”她迅速说道，将手指放在他的手和嘴唇之间。 “我宁愿把它掌握在自己手中。”

‘Nonsense!’ he insisted; and in a slight distress she parted her lips and took it in.
“胡说八道！”他坚持道。她带着一丝苦恼，张开双唇，把它吞了下去。

They had spent some time wandering desultorily thus, Tess eating in a half-pleased, half-reluctant state whatever d’Urberville offered her. When she could consume no more of the strawberries he filled her little basket with them; and then the two passed round to the rose-trees, whence he gathered blossoms and gave her to put in her bosom. She obeyed like one in a dream, and when she could affix no more he himself tucked a bud or two into her hat, and heaped her basket with others in the prodigality of his bounty. At last, looking at his watch, he said, ‘Now, by the time you have had something to eat, it will be time for you to leave, if you want to catch the carrier to Shaston. Come here, and I’ll see what grub I can find.’
他们就这样漫无目的地闲逛了一段时间，苔丝半高兴半不情愿地吃着德伯维尔给她的东西。当她吃不动草莓时，他把草莓装满了她的小篮子。然后两人走到玫瑰树下，他从那里采了花，把她放在怀里。她像梦中的人一样服从，当她再也无法插上时，他亲自将一两个花蕾塞进她的帽子里，并以他慷慨的慷慨将她的篮子和其他花蕾堆在一起。最后，他看了看手表，说道：“现在，当你吃点东西的时候，如果你想搭乘前往沙斯顿的航空母舰，你就该出发了。”到这里来，我看看能找到什么幼虫。”

Stoke d’Urberville took her back to the lawn and into the tent, where he left her, soon reappearing with a basket of light luncheon, which he put before her himself. It was evidently the gentleman’s wish not to be disturbed in this pleasant tête-à-tête by the servantry.
斯托克·德伯维尔把她带回草坪，进了帐篷，他把她留在了那里，很快又带着一篮清淡的午餐出现了，他亲自把它放在她面前。显然，这位绅士不想让仆人打扰这愉快的私下交谈。

‘Do you mind my smoking?’ he asked.
“你介意我抽烟吗？”他问。

‘Oh, not at all, sir.’
“噢，一点也不，先生。”

He watched her pretty and unconscious munching through the skeins of smoke that pervaded the tent, and Tess Durbeyfield did not divine, as she innocently looked down at the roses in her bosom, that there behind the blue narcotic haze was potentially the ‘tragic mischief’ of her drama—one who stood fair to be the blood-red ray in the spectrum of her young life. She had an attribute which amounted to a disadvantage just now; and it was this that caused Alec d’Urberville’s eyes to rivet themselves upon her. It was a luxuriance of aspect, a fulness of growth, which made her appear more of a woman than she really was. She had inherited the feature from her mother without the quality it denoted. It had troubled her mind occasionally, till her companions had said that it was a fault which time would cure.
他看着她漂亮而无意识地嚼着弥漫在帐篷里的一缕缕烟雾，苔丝·德北菲尔德天真地低头看着怀里的玫瑰，她并没有预见到蓝色麻醉烟雾的背后可能是“悲剧性的恶作剧”。她的戏剧——一个在她年轻的生命光谱中站稳脚跟的血红光芒的人。她有一个属性，刚才就属于劣势了，那就是：正是这一点使得亚历克·德伯维尔的目光紧紧地盯着她。那是一种华丽的外貌，一种全面的成长，使她看起来比她真正的样子更像一个女人。她从母亲那里继承了这一特征，但没有它所代表的品质。这偶尔会困扰她的心，直到她的同伴们说这是一个需要时间才能治愈的错误。

She soon had finished her lunch. ‘Now I am going home, sir,’ she said, rising.
她很快就吃完了午饭。 “现在我要回家了，先生，”她站起身来说道。

‘And what do they call you?’ he asked, as he accompanied her along the drive till they were out of sight of the house.
“他们怎么称呼你？”他一边问，一边陪着她沿着车道走，直到他们离开了房子的视线。

‘Tess Durbeyfield, down at Marlott.’
“苔丝·德北菲尔德，在马洛特。”

‘And you say your people have lost their horse?’
“你说你的人民失去了他们的马？”

‘I—killed him!’ she answered, her eyes filling with tears as she gave particulars of Prince’s death. ‘And I don’t know what to do for father on account of it!’
“我——杀了他！”她回答道，在详细讲述普林斯的死因时，眼里充满了泪水。 “我不知道该为父亲做什么！”

‘I must think if I cannot do something. My mother must find a berth for you. But, Tess, no nonsense about ‘d’Urberville’;—‘Durbeyfield’ only, you know—quite another name.’
‘如果我不能做某事，我必须思考。我妈妈必须给你找个卧铺。但是，苔丝，关于‘德伯维尔’，别胡说八道；——只是‘德贝菲尔德’，你知道的——完全是另一个名字。”

‘I wish for no better, sir,’ said she with something of dignity.
“我不希望有更好的结果，先生。”她带着几分尊严说道。

For a moment—only for a moment—when they were in the turning of the drive, between the tall rhododendrons and conifers, before the lodge became visible, he inclined his face towards her as if—but, no: he thought better of it, and let her go.
有一会儿——只有一会儿——当他们在车道拐弯处，在高大的杜鹃花和针叶树之间，在小屋变得可见之前，他把脸转向她，仿佛——但是，不：他想了更好，然后让她走。

Thus the thing began. Had she perceived this meeting’s import she might have asked why she was doomed to be seen and coveted that day by the wrong man, and not by some other man, the right and desired one in all respects—as nearly as humanity can supply the right and desired; yet to him who amongst her acquaintance might have approximated to this kind, she was but a transient impression, half forgotten.
事情就这样开始了。如果她意识到这次会面的重要性，她可能会问，为什么那天她注定会被一个错误的男人看到和觊觎，而不是被其他男人看到和觊觎，而这个男人在各方面都是正确和渴望的——就像人类可以提供正确的那样和所期望的；然而，对他来说，她的熟人中可能有类似的人，她只是一个短暂的印象，半被遗忘了。

In the ill-judged execution of the well-judged plan of things the call seldom produces the comer, the man to love rarely coincides with the hour for loving. Nature does not often say ‘See!’ to her poor creature at a time when seeing can lead to happy doing; or reply ‘Here!’ to a body’s cry of ‘Where?’ till the hide-and-seek has become an irksome, outworn game. We may wonder whether at the acme and summit of the human progress these anachronisms will be corrected by a finer intuition, a closer interaction of the social machinery than that which now jolts us round and along; but such completeness is not to be prophesied, or even conceived as possible. Enough that in the present case, as in millions, it was not the two halves of a perfect whole that confronted each other at the perfect moment; a missing counterpart wandered independently about the earth waiting in crass obtuseness till the late time came. Out of which maladroit delay sprang anxieties, disappointments, shocks, catastrophes, and passing-strange destinies.
在错误地执行明智的计划时，召唤很少能产生成功者，爱的人很少与爱的时刻同时发生。当看到可以带来快乐的时候，大自然并不经常对她可怜的生物说“看！”；或者对身体的“哪里？”的呼喊回答“这里！”，直到捉迷藏变成了一种令人厌烦、过时的游戏。我们可能想知道，在人类进步的顶峰和顶峰，这些不合时宜的现象是否会被更精细的直觉、更密切的社会机器相互作用所纠正，而不是现在让我们摇摇欲坠的社会机器？但这种完整性是不可预言的，甚至是不可能的。就目前的情况而言，就像在数以百万计的情况下一样，这并不是一个完美整体的两半在完美的时刻相互对峙；这已经足够了。一个失踪的同伴独立地在地球上徘徊，粗鲁地等待着，直到时间到来。笨手笨脚的拖延引发了焦虑、失望、震惊、灾难和奇怪的命运。

When d’Urberville got back to the tent he sat down astride on a chair, reflecting, with a pleased gleam in his face. Then he broke into a loud laugh.
当德伯维尔回到帐篷时，他跨坐在椅子上，沉思着，脸上露出高兴的光芒。然后他放声大笑。

‘Well, I’m damned! What a funny thing! Ha-ha-ha! And what a crumby girl!’
‘好吧，我该死！多么有趣的事情啊！哈哈哈！多么脆弱的女孩啊！

VI

Tess went down the hill to Trantridge Cross, and inattentively waited to take her seat in the van returning from Chaseborough to Shaston. She did not know what the other occupants said to her as she entered, though she answered them; and when they had started anew she rode along with an inward and not an outward eye.
苔丝下山前往特兰特里奇克罗斯，漫不经心地等待在从蔡斯伯勒返回沙斯顿的货车上就座。她不知道她进来时其他住户对她说了什么，尽管她回答了他们。当他们重新开始时，她带着内心的目光而不是外在的目光骑行。

One among her fellow-travellers addressed her more pointedly than any had spoken before: ‘Why, you be quite a posy! And such roses in early June!’
她的一位旅伴比以前任何人都更尖锐地对她说：‘哎呀，你真是个花言巧语！六月初还有这样的玫瑰！”

Then she became aware of the spectacle she presented to their surprised vision: roses at her breasts; roses in her hat; roses and strawberries in her basket to the brim. She blushed, and said confusedly that the flowers had been given to her. When the passengers were not looking she stealthily removed the more prominent blooms from her hat and placed them in the basket, where she covered them with her handkerchief. Then she fell to reflecting again, and in looking downwards a thorn of the rose remaining in her breast accidentally pricked her chin. Like all the cottagers in Blackmoor Vale, Tess was steeped in fancies and prefigurative superstitions; she thought this an ill omen—the first she had noticed that day.
然后她意识到自己在他们惊讶的目光中呈现出的景象：胸前绽放着玫瑰；帽子里插着玫瑰花；她的篮子里装满了玫瑰和草莓。她脸红了，疑惑地说，花是送给她的。她趁乘客们不注意的时候，偷偷地把帽子上比较显眼的花朵摘下来，放进篮子里，并用手帕盖住它们。然后她又陷入沉思，低头一看，胸前残留的玫瑰刺不小心刺破了她的下巴。和布莱克莫谷的所有村民一样，苔丝也沉浸在幻想和象征性的迷信之中。她认为这是一个不祥的预兆——这是她那天第一次注意到的。

The van travelled only so far as Shaston, and there were several miles of pedestrian descent from that mountain-town into the vale to Marlott. Her mother had advised her to stay here for the night, at the house of a cottage-woman they knew, if she should feel too tired to come on; and this Tess did, not descending to her home till the following afternoon.
货车只行驶到了沙斯顿，行人从那个山城下山到山谷还有几英里才能到达马洛特。她母亲建议她在他们认识的一位农妇家里过夜，如果她觉得太累而无法继续前进的话；苔丝照做了，直到第二天下午才回家。

When she entered the house she perceived in a moment from her mother’s triumphant manner that something had occurred in the interim.
当她进屋时，她从母亲得意洋洋的神情中立刻察觉到这期间发生了什么事。

‘Oh yes; I know all about it! I told ‘ee it would be all right, and now ‘tis proved!’
'哦是的;我都知道了！我告诉‘嗯，一切都会好起来的，现在‘事实证明了！’

‘Since I’ve been away? What has?’ said Tess rather wearily.
‘自从我离开之后？发生了什么？”苔丝有些疲倦地说。

Her mother surveyed the girl up and down with arch approval, and went on banteringly: ‘So you’ve brought ‘em round!’
她的母亲满怀赞许地上下打量了这个女孩，然后继续打趣道：“原来你把他们带过来了！”

‘How do you know, mother?’
“你怎么知道，妈妈？”

‘I’ve had a letter.’
“我收到一封信。”

Tess then remembered that there would have been time for this.
苔丝这才想起来，本来是有时间的。

‘They say—Mrs d’Urberville says—that she wants you to look after a little fowl-farm which is her hobby. But this is only her artful way of getting ‘ee there without raising your hopes. She’s going to own ‘ee as kin—that’s the meaning o’t.’
“他们说——德伯维尔夫人说——她希望你照看一个小养鸡场，这是她的爱好。但这只是她在不增加你的希望的情况下实现目标的巧妙方式。她将拥有“ee 作为亲属——这就是 o’t 的含义。”

‘But I didn’t see her.’
“但我没有看到她。”

‘You zid somebody, I suppose?’
“我猜你找过某人吧？”

‘I saw her son.’
“我看到了她的儿子。”

‘And did he own ‘ee?’
“他有‘ee’吗？”

‘Well—he called me Coz.’
“嗯——他叫我科兹。”

‘An’ I knew it! Jacky—he called her Coz!’ cried Joan to her husband. ‘Well, he spoke to his mother, of course, and she do want ‘ee there.’
‘安’我就知道了！杰基——他叫她科兹！”琼对她的丈夫喊道。 “嗯，当然，他和他母亲谈过了，她确实想要‘在那里’。”

‘But I don’t know that I am apt at tending fowls,’ said the dubious Tess.
“但我不知道我擅长养鸡，”半信半疑的苔丝说道。

‘Then I don’t know who is apt. You’ve be’n born in the business, and brought up in it. They that be born in a business always know more about it than any ‘prentice. Besides, that’s only just a show of something for you to do, that you midn’t feel beholden.’
‘那么我不知道谁是合适的。你出生在这个行业，长在这个行业。出生在企业的人总是比任何“学徒”更了解企业。此外，这只是为了让你做一些事情，你不会感到有义务。

‘I don’t altogether think I ought to go,’ said Tess thoughtfully. ‘Who wrote the letter? Will you let me look at it?’
“我完全不认为我应该去，”苔丝若有所思地说。 '谁写了这封信？你能让我看看吗？

‘Mrs d’Urberville wrote it. Here it is.’
‘这是德伯维尔夫人写的。这里是。'

The letter was in the third person, and briefly informed Mrs Durbeyfield that her daughter’s services would be useful to that lady in the management of her poultry-farm, that a comfortable room would be provided for her if she could come, and that the wages would be on a liberal scale if they liked her.
这封信是第三人称，简短地告诉德北菲尔德夫人，她女儿的服务将有助于这位女士管理她的家禽养殖场，如果她能来，将为她提供一个舒适的房间，并且工资如果他们喜欢她，就会很自由。

‘Oh—that’s all!’ said Tess.
“噢——就这些了！”苔丝说。

‘You couldn’t expect her to throw her arms round ‘ee, an’ to kiss and to coll ‘ee all at once.’
“你不可能指望她会张开双臂拥抱‘ee’，然后亲吻‘ee’，同时拥抱‘ee’。”

Tess looked out of the window.
苔丝看着窗外。

‘I would rather stay here with father and you,’ she said.
“我宁愿和父亲和你一起留在这里，”她说。

‘But why?’
'但为什么？'

‘I’d rather not tell you why, mother; indeed, I don’t quite know why.’
“我不想告诉你原因，妈妈；确实，我不太清楚为什么。

A week afterwards she came in one evening from an unavailing search for some light occupation in the immediate neighbourhood. Her idea had been to get together sufficient money during the summer to purchase another horse. Hardly had she crossed the threshold before one of the children danced across the room, saying, ‘The gentleman’s been here!’
一周后的一个晚上，她在附近寻找一些轻松的工作，但毫无结果。她的想法是在夏天筹集足够的钱购买另一匹马。她刚跨过门槛，其中一个孩子便跳着舞穿过房间，说道：“这位先生来过！”

Her mother hastened to explain, smiles breaking from every inch of her person. Mrs d’Urberville’s son had called on horseback, having been riding by chance in the direction of Marlott. He had wished to know, finally, in the name of his mother, if Tess could really come to manage the old lady’s fowl-farm or not; the lad who had hitherto superintended the birds having proved untrustworthy. ‘Mr d’Urberville says you must be a good girl if you are at all as you appear; he knows you must be worth your weight in gold. He is very much interested in ‘ee—truth to tell.’
母亲连忙解释，脸上笑容满面。德伯维尔夫人的儿子骑马来访，当时正巧朝马洛特方向骑马过来。最后，他想以母亲的名义，知道苔丝是否真的能来管理老太太的养鸡场；他想知道，苔丝是否真的能来管理老太太的养鸡场。事实证明，迄今为止负责管理这些鸟的小伙子是不值得信任的。 “德伯维尔先生说，如果你真如你所表现的那样，你一定是个好女孩；他知道你一定值得与同等重量的黄金。他对“ee——说实话”非常感兴趣。

Tess seemed for the moment really pleased to hear that she had won such high opinion from a stranger when, in her own esteem, she had sunk so low.
苔丝此刻似乎很高兴听到自己赢得了一个陌生人如此高的评价，而在她自己看来，她的自尊心却如此低落。

‘It is very good of him to think that,’ she murmured; ‘and if I was quite sure how it would be living there, I would go any-when.’
“他能这么想真是太好了，”她低声说道。 “如果我很确定那里的生活会怎样，我随时都会去。”

‘He is a mighty handsome man!’
“他是一个非常英俊的男人！”

‘I don’t think so,’ said Tess coldly.
“我不这么认为，”苔丝冷冷地说。

‘Well, there’s your chance, whether or no; and I’m sure he wears a beautiful diamond ring!’
“好吧，不管有没有机会，你都有机会；我确信他戴着一枚漂亮的钻戒！”

‘Yes,’ said little Abraham, brightly, from the window-bench; ‘and I seed it! and it did twinkle when he put his hand up to his mistarshers. Mother, why did our grand relation keep on putting his hand up to his mistarshers?’
“是的，”小亚伯拉罕坐在窗边的长椅上，明亮地说。 ‘我播种它！当他把手伸向他的迷雾者时，它确实闪烁了。妈妈，为什么我们的大亲戚总是向他的坏人举手呢？

‘Hark at that child!’ cried Mrs Durbeyfield, with parenthetic admiration.
“听那孩子的声音！”德北菲尔德夫人大声说道，语气中带着钦佩。

‘Perhaps to show his diamond ring,’ murmured Sir John, dreamily, from his chair.
“也许是为了展示他的钻戒，”约翰爵士坐在椅子上，若有所思地低声说道。

‘I’ll think it over,’ said Tess, leaving the room.
“我会考虑一下的，”苔丝说着离开了房间。

‘Well, she’s made a conquest o’ the younger branch of us, straight off,’ continued the matron to her husband, ‘and she’s a fool if she don’t follow it up.’
“好吧，她立刻就征服了我们中的年轻分支，”主妇继续对她的丈夫说，“如果她不跟进，她就是个傻瓜。”

‘I don’t quite like my children going away from home,’ said the haggler. ‘As the head of the family, the rest ought to come to me.’
“我不太喜欢我的孩子离开家，”讨价还价的人说。 “作为一家之主，剩下的事情就应该交给我。”

‘But do let her go, Jacky,’ coaxed his poor witless wife. ‘He’s struck wi’ her—you can see that. He called her Coz! He’ll marry her, most likely, and make a lady of her; and then she’ll be what her forefathers was.’
“但是，请放开她吧，杰基，”他可怜的无知的妻子哄道。 ‘他对她动了心——你可以看到这一点。他叫她科兹！他很可能会娶她为妻，并让她成为一位淑女。然后她就会成为她的祖先那样的人。

John Durbeyfield had more conceit than energy or health, and this supposition was pleasant to him.
约翰·德北菲尔德自负多于精力或健康，这种假设令他感到愉快。

‘Well, perhaps that’s what young Mr d’Urberville means,’ he admitted; ‘and sure enough he mid have serious thoughts about improving his blood by linking on to the old line. Tess, the little rogue! And have she really paid ‘em a visit to such an end as this?’
“嗯，也许这就是年轻的德伯维尔先生的意思，”他承认道。 “果然，他中间认真地考虑过通过连接到旧血统来改善他的血液。苔丝，这个小流氓！她拜访他们真的是为了达到这样的目的吗？

Meanwhile Tess was walking thoughtfully among the gooseberry-bushes in the garden, and over Prince’s grave. When she came in her mother pursued her advantage.
与此同时，苔丝若有所思地走在花园里的醋栗丛中，走过普林斯的坟墓。当她进来时，她的母亲追求她的优势。

‘Well, what be you going to do?’ she asked.
“那么，你打算做什么？”她问道。

‘I wish I had seen Mrs d’Urberville,’ said Tess.
“我真希望见到德伯维尔太太，”苔丝说。

‘I think you mid as well settle it. Then you’ll see her soon enough.’
“我认为你最好解决这个问题。然后你很快就会见到她。

Her father coughed in his chair.
她父亲在椅子上咳嗽。

‘I don’t know what to say!’ answered the girl restlessly. ‘It is for you to decide. I killed the old horse, and I suppose I ought to do something to get ye a new one. But—but—I don’t quite like Mr d’Urberville being there!’
“我不知道该说什么！”女孩不安地回答。 ‘这由你决定。我杀了那匹老马，我想我应该做点什么给你们买一匹新马。但是——但是——我不太喜欢德伯维尔先生在那儿！”

The children, who had made use of this idea of Tess being taken up by their wealthy kinsfolk (which they imagined the other family to be) as a species of dolorifuge after the death of the horse, began to cry at Tess’s reluctance, and teased and reproached her for hesitating.
马死后，孩子们把苔丝被富有的亲戚（他们想象中的另一个家庭）收养作为一种缓解痛苦的想法，开始为苔丝的不情愿而哭泣，并取笑他们。并责备她犹豫不决。

‘Tess won’t go-o-o and be made a la-a-dy of!—no, she says she wo-o-on’t!’ they wailed, with square mouths. ‘And we shan’t have a nice new horse, and lots o’ golden money to buy fairlings! And Tess won’t look pretty in her best cloze no mo-o-ore!’
“苔丝不会成为贵妇！——不，她说她不会！”他们张着方嘴哭喊着。 “而且我们不会有一匹漂亮的新马，也不会有很多金币来购买小雏鸟！”苔丝在她最好的完型填空中看起来不会很漂亮，没有 mo-o-ore！

Her mother chimed in to the same tune: a certain way she had of making her labours in the house seem heavier than they were by prolonging them indefinitely, also weighed in the argument. Her father alone preserved an attitude of neutrality.
她的母亲也附和着同样的调子：她通过无限期地延长家务劳动来使自己的家务活看起来比实际更重，这也在争论中得到了重视。只有她的父亲保持着中立的态度。

‘I will go,’ said Tess at last.
“我会去的，”苔丝最后说道。

Her mother could not repress her consciousness of the nuptial vision conjured up by the girl’s consent.
她的母亲无法抑制她对女孩同意所唤起的婚礼愿景的意识。

‘That’s right! For such a pretty maid as ‘tis, this is a fine chance!’
'这是正确的！对于这么漂亮的女仆来说，这是一个很好的机会！

Tess smiled crossly.
苔丝生气地笑了。

‘I hope it is a chance for earning money. It is no other kind of chance. You had better say nothing of that silly sort about parish.’
“我希望这是一个赚钱的机会。这不是其他的机会。你最好别说有关教区的那种愚蠢的话。”

Mrs Durbeyfield did not promise. She was not quite sure that she did not feel proud enough, after the visitor’s remarks, to say a good deal.
德北菲尔德夫人没有答应。她不太确定，在听完这位访客的讲话后，她是否感到足够自豪，无法说出很多话。

Thus it was arranged; and the young girl wrote, agreeing to be ready to set out on any day on which she might be required. She was duly informed that Mrs d’Urberville was glad of her decision, and that a spring-cart should be sent to meet her and her luggage at the top of the Vale on the day after the morrow, when she must hold herself prepared to start. Mrs d’Urberville’s handwriting seemed rather masculine.
就这样安排了；年轻的女孩写信说，她同意在任何需要她的日子里做好出发的准备。她被及时告知，德伯维尔夫人对她的决定感到高兴，并会在后天派一辆弹簧车去谷顶接她和她的行李，届时她必须做好准备开始。德伯维尔夫人的笔迹看起来相当阳刚。

‘A cart?’ murmured Joan Durbeyfield doubtingly. ‘It might have been a carriage for her own kin!’
“一辆手推车？”琼·德北菲尔德疑惑地低声说道。 “这可能是她亲人的马车！”

Having at last taken her course Tess was less restless and abstracted, going about her business with some self-assurance in the thought of acquiring another horse for her father by an occupation which would not be onerous. She had hoped to be a teacher at the school, but the fates seemed to decide otherwise. Being mentally older than her mother she did not regard Mrs Durbeyfield’s matrimonial hopes for her in a serious aspect for a moment. The light-minded woman had been discovering good matches for her daughter almost from the year of her birth.
苔丝终于走上了自己的道路，不再那么焦躁和心不在焉，她带着一些自信去做自己的事情，想着通过一项并不繁重的工作为她父亲再买一匹马。她原本希望成为学校的一名教师，但命运似乎另有安排。由于心理年龄比她母亲大，她暂时没有认真对待德北菲尔德夫人对她的婚姻希望。这位性格开朗的女人几乎从女儿出生的那一年起，就一直在为女儿寻找良缘。

VII
七

On the morning appointed for her departure Tess was awake before dawn—at the marginal minute of the dark when the grove is still mute, save for one prophetic bird who sings with a clear-voiced conviction that he at least knows the correct time of day, the rest preserving silence as if equally convinced that he is mistaken. She remained upstairs packing till breakfast-time, and then came down in her ordinary week-day clothes, her Sunday apparel being carefully folded in her box.
在指定出发的那天早上，苔丝在黎明前就醒了——在黑暗的边缘时刻，小树林仍然一片寂静，除了一只预言鸟，它用清晰的声音唱歌，坚信自己至少知道一天中的正确时间其余的人都保持沉默，仿佛同样确信他错了。她一直在楼上收拾行李，直到早餐时间，然后穿着平日的普通衣服下来，周日的衣服被小心地折叠在盒子里。

Her mother expostulated. ‘You will never set out to see your folks without dressing up more the dand than that?’
她母亲劝告道。 “如果你不打扮得更时髦，你就永远不会去见你的家人吗？”

‘But I am going to work!’ said Tess.
“但是我要去工作！”苔丝说。

‘Well, yes,’ said Mrs Durbeyfield; and in a private tone, ‘at first there mid be a little pretence o’t ... But I think it will be wiser of ‘ee to put your best side outward,’ she added.
“嗯，是的，”德北菲尔德太太说。她用私下里的语气说，“一开始可能会有点假装……但我认为，‘把你最好的一面展现出来’会更明智。”

‘Very well; I suppose you know best,’ replied Tess with calm abandonment.
'很好;我想你最清楚。”苔丝平静地回答道。

And to please her parent the girl put herself quite in Joan’s hands, saying serenely—‘Do what you like with me, mother.’
为了取悦她的父母，女孩把自己完全交到了琼的手中，平静地说：“妈妈，你爱怎么待我就怎么待吧。”

Mrs Durbeyfield was only too delighted at this tractability. First she fetched a great basin, and washed Tess’s hair with such thoroughness that when dried and brushed it looked twice as much as at other times. She tied it with a broader pink ribbon than usual. Then she put upon her the white frock that Tess had worn at the club-walking, the airy fulness of which, supplementing her enlarged coiffure, imparted to her developing figure an amplitude which belied her age, and might cause her to be estimated as a woman when she was not much more than a child.
德北菲尔德夫人对这种顺从的态度感到非常高兴。首先，她拿了一个大脸盆，把苔丝的头发洗得很彻底，吹干并梳理后，头发看上去比平时多了一倍。她用比平时更宽的粉红丝带系着它。然后她穿上了苔丝在俱乐部散步时穿的那件白色连衣裙，这件连衣裙轻盈飘逸，与她夸张的发型相得益彰，使她正在发育的身材显得与她的年龄不相符，可能会让人认为她是一个女人，当她还只是个孩子的时候。

‘I declare there’s a hole in my stocking-heel!’ said Tess.
“我宣布我的袜跟上有一个洞！”苔丝说。

‘Never mind holes in your stockings—they don’t speak! When I was a maid, so long as I had a pretty bonnet the devil might ha’ found me in heels.’
“别介意你的袜子上有破洞——它们不会说话！当我还是个女仆时，只要我有一顶漂亮的帽子，魔鬼就可能会发现穿着高跟鞋的我。

Her mother’s pride in the girl’s appearance led her to step back, like a painter from his easel, and survey her work as a whole.
她母亲对女孩的外表感到自豪，这让她像画家一样站在画架上退后一步，从整体上审视自己的作品。

‘You must zee yourself!’ she cried. ‘It is much better than you was t’other day.’
“你必须看看自己！”她喊道。 “比前几天好多了。”

As the looking-glass was only large enough to reflect a very small portion of Tess’s person at one time, Mrs Durbeyfield hung a black cloak outside the casement, and so made a large reflector of the panes, as it is the wont of bedecking cottagers to do. After this she went downstairs to her husband, who was sitting in the lower room.
由于镜子的大小只能一次反射出苔丝的一小部分，德北菲尔德夫人在窗外挂了一件黑色斗篷，并在窗玻璃上做了一个大反光镜，这是装饰小屋的习惯。去做。之后，她下楼去找坐在楼下房间的丈夫。

‘I’ll tell ‘ee what ‘tis, Durbeyfield,’ said she exultingly; ‘he’ll never have the heart not to love her. But whatever you do, don’t zay too much to Tess of his fancy for her, and this chance she has got. She is such an odd maid that it mid zet her against him, or against going there, even now. If all goes well, I shall certainly be for making some return to pa’son at Stagfoot Lane for telling us—dear, good man!’
“我会告诉你这是什么，德北菲尔德，”她兴高采烈地说。 ‘他永远不会忍心不爱她。但无论你做什么，都不要向苔丝透露太多他对她的喜爱，以及她得到的这个机会。她是一个如此奇怪的女仆，以至于她开始反对他，或者反对去那里，即使是现在。如果一切顺利，我一定会回报鹿脚巷的牧师，因为他告诉我们——亲爱的，好人！

However, as the moment for the girl’s setting out drew nigh, when the first excitement of the dressing had passed off, a slight misgiving found place in Joan Durbeyfield’s mind. It prompted the matron to say that she would walk a little way—as far as to the point where the acclivity from the valley began its first steep ascent to the outer world. At the top Tess was going to be met with the spring-cart sent by the Stoke-d’Urbervilles, and her box had already been wheeled ahead towards this summit by a lad with trucks, to be in readiness.
然而，随着女孩出发的时刻临近，当最初的穿衣兴奋过去后，琼·德北菲尔德的心中出现了一丝疑虑。这促使女护士说她要走一段路——直到山谷的上坡开始第一次陡峭地上升到外部世界的地方。在山顶，苔丝将与斯托克-德伯维尔派来的弹簧车会面，她的箱子已经由一个推着卡车的小伙子推向山顶，准备就绪。

Seeing their mother put on her bonnet, the younger children clamoured to go with her.
看到妈妈戴上帽子，小孩子们就吵着要跟妈妈一起去。

‘I do want to walk a little-ways wi’ Sissy, now she’s going to marry our gentleman-cousin, and wear fine cloze!’
“我确实想和茜茜一起走一段路，现在她要嫁给我们的绅士表弟了，而且还要穿漂亮的完形填空！”

‘Now,’ said Tess, flushing and turning quickly, ‘I’ll hear no more o’ that! Mother, how could you ever put such stuff into their heads?’
“现在，”苔丝脸红了，迅速转过身来，“我不会再听到这样的事了！”妈妈，你怎么能把这些东西塞进他们的脑子里呢？

‘Going to work, my dears, for our rich relation, and help get enough money for a new horse,’ said Mrs Durbeyfield pacifically.
“亲爱的，去为我们富有的亲戚工作，并帮助筹集足够的钱买一匹新马。”德北菲尔德夫人平静地说。

‘Goodbye, father,’ said Tess, with a lumpy throat.
“再见，父亲。”苔丝喉咙哽咽地说。

‘Goodbye, my maid,’ said Sir John, raising his head from his breast as he suspended his nap, induced by a slight excess this morning in honour of the occasion. ‘Well, I hope my young friend will like such a comely sample of his own blood. And tell’n, Tess, that being sunk, quite, from our former grandeur, I’ll sell him the title—yes, sell it—and at no onreasonable figure.’
“再见，我的女仆，”约翰爵士暂停小睡，从怀里抬起头来，今天早上为了纪念这一时刻，他稍微有点过度了。 “好吧，我希望我的年轻朋友会喜欢他自己的如此漂亮的血液样本。告诉你，苔丝，我们以前的辉煌已经完全沉没了，我会把这个头衔卖给他——是的，卖掉它——而且价格不合理。

‘Not for less than a thousand pound!’ cried Lady Durbeyfield.
“不低于一千英镑！”德北菲尔德夫人喊道。

‘Tell’n—I’ll take a thousand pound. Well, I’ll take less, when I come to think o’t. He’ll adorn it better than a poor lammicken feller like myself can. Tell’n he shall hae it for a hundred. But I won’t stand upon trifles—tell’n he shall hae it for fifty—for twenty pound! Yes, twenty pound—that’s the lowest. Dammy, family honour is family honour, and I won’t take a penny less!’
“告诉我——我要一千英镑。”好吧，当我想起来的时候，我会少拿一点。他会比我这样一个可怜的拉米肯人更好地装饰它。告诉他他会得到一百。但我不会站在小事上——告诉他他会花五十——二十英镑！是的，二十英镑——这是最低的。妈的，家族荣誉就是家族荣誉，我一分钱也不会少拿！”

Tess’s eyes were too full and her voice too choked to utter the sentiments that were in her. She turned quickly, and went out.
苔丝的眼睛太满了，她的声音太哽咽，无法说出她内心的情感。她迅速转身，走了出去。

So the girls and their mother all walked together, a child on each side of Tess, holding her hand and looking at her meditatively from time to time, as at one who was about to do great things; her mother just behind with the smallest; the group forming a picture of honest beauty flanked by innocence, and backed by simple-souled vanity. They followed the way till they reached the beginning of the ascent, on the crest of which the vehicle from Trantridge was to receive her, this limit having been fixed to save the horse the labour of the last slope. Far away behind the first hills the cliff-like dwellings of Shaston broke the line of the ridge. Nobody was visible in the elevated road which skirted the ascent save the lad whom they had sent on before them, sitting on the handle of the barrow that contained all Tess’s worldly possessions.
于是，女孩们和她们的母亲一起走着，苔丝两侧各有一个孩子，握着她的手，时不时若有所思地看着她，仿佛在看着一个即将做出伟大事业的人。她的母亲紧随其后，带着最小的孩子。这群人形成了一幅诚实美丽的画面，两侧是纯真，背后是灵魂简单的虚荣心。他们沿着这条路一直走到上坡的起点，从特兰特里奇来的车辆将在山顶迎接她，这个限制是为了让马免于最后一个斜坡的劳力而设定的。在第一座山丘后面很远的地方，沙斯顿悬崖般的住宅打破了山脊的线条。除了他们派在他们前面的那个小伙子，坐在斜坡上的高架路上，没有人看见他，那个小伙子坐在装着苔丝所有世俗财产的手推车的把手上。

‘Bide here a bit, and the cart will soon come, no doubt,’ said Mrs Durbeyfield. ‘Yes, I see it yonder!’
“在这里稍等一下，毫无疑问，马车很快就会来，”德北菲尔德夫人说。 “是的，我看到那边了！”

It had come—appearing suddenly from behind the forehead of the nearest upland, and stopping beside the boy with the barrow. Her mother and the children thereupon decided to go no farther, and bidding them a hasty goodbye, Tess bent her steps up the hill.
它来了——突然从最近的高地的前额后面出现，停在推着手推车的男孩身边。苔丝的母亲和孩子们决定不再往前走，匆匆告别了他们，便迈着大步向山上走去。

They saw her white shape draw near to the spring-cart, on which her box was already placed. But before she had quite reached it another vehicle shot out from a clump of trees on the summit, came round the bend of the road there, passed the luggage-cart, and halted beside Tess, who looked up as if in great surprise.
他们看到她白色的身影靠近了弹簧车，上面已经放着她的盒子。但还没等她完全到达那里，另一辆车从山顶的树林里冲了出来，绕过那里的道路拐弯处，经过了行李车，停在苔丝身边，苔丝抬起头来，仿佛非常惊讶。

Her mother perceived, for the first time, that the second vehicle was not a humble conveyance like the first, but a spick-and-span gig or dog-cart, highly varnished and equipped. The driver was a young man of threeor four-and-twenty, with a cigar between his teeth; wearing a dandy cap, drab jacket, breeches of the same hue, white neckcloth, stick-up collar, and brown driving-gloves—in short, he was the handsome, horsey young buck who had visited Joan a week or two before to get her answer about Tess.
她母亲第一次意识到，第二辆车不像第一辆车那样简陋，而是一辆干净整洁的马车或狗车，漆得很亮，装备也很齐全。司机是个三四岁、二十岁的年轻人，嘴里叼着雪茄。戴着花花公子的帽子，穿着土褐色的夹克，穿着同样颜色的马裤，白色的领巾，立领，戴着棕色的驾驶手套——简而言之，他就是那个一两周前拜访过琼的英俊的年轻雄鹿。她对苔丝的回答。

Mrs Durbeyfield clapped her hands like a child. Then she looked down, then stared again. Could she be deceived as to the meaning of this?
德北菲尔德夫人像个孩子一样拍手。然后她低下头，然后再次凝视。她会不会被这句话的意思欺骗了？

‘Is dat the gentleman-kinsman who’ll make Sissy a lady?’ asked the youngest child.
“这就是那位能让茜茜成为淑女的绅士亲戚吗？”最小的孩子问。

Meanwhile the muslined form of Tess could be seen standing still, undecided, beside this turn-out, whose owner was talking to her. Her seeming indecision was, in fact, more than indecision: it was misgiving. She would have preferred the humble cart. The young man dismounted, and appeared to urge her to ascend. She turned her face down the hill to her relatives, and regarded the little group. Something seemed to quicken her to a determination; possibly the thought that she had killed Prince. She suddenly stepped up; he mounted beside her, and immediately whipped on the horse. In a moment they had passed the slow cart with the box, and disappeared behind the shoulder of the hill.
与此同时，可以看到苔丝肌肉发达的身躯一动不动地站在这群人旁边，而这群人的主人正在和她说话。她表面上的犹豫不决，事实上，不仅仅是犹豫不决：这是一种疑虑。她更喜欢那辆简陋的手推车。年轻人下了马，似乎是在催促她上去。她把脸转向山下的亲戚，打量着这一小群人。似乎有什么东西让她下定了决心。可能是她杀了王子的想法。她突然站起来；他骑到她身边，立即鞭打马匹。不一会儿，他们就超越了那辆载着箱子的慢车，消失在山肩后面。

Directly Tess was out of sight, and the interest of the matter as a drama was at an end, the little ones’ eyes filled with tears. The youngest child said, ‘I wish poor, poor Tess wasn’t gone away to be a lady!’ and, lowering the corners of his lips, burst out crying. The new point of view was infectious, and the next child did likewise, and then the next, till the whole three of them wailed loud.
苔丝很快就消失了，这件事的戏剧性也结束了，小孩子们的眼里充满了泪水。最小的孩子说：“我希望可怜的、可怜的苔丝没有成为一位女士！”然后，他低下嘴角，放声大哭起来。新的观点很有感染力，下一个孩子也这样做了，然后是下一个，直到三个孩子都大声哭泣。

There were tears also in Joan Durbeyfield’s eyes as she turned to go home. But by the time she had got back to the village she was passively trusting to the favour of accident. However, in bed that night she sighed, and her husband asked her what was the matter.
当琼·德北菲尔德转身回家时，她的眼里也含着泪水。但当她回到村子时，她被动地相信了意外的降临。然而，那天晚上她在床上叹了口气，丈夫问她怎么了。

‘Oh, I don’t know exactly,’ she said. ‘I was thinking that perhaps it would ha’ been better if Tess had not gone.’
“哦，我不太清楚，”她说。 “我在想，如果苔丝没有走，也许情况会更好。”

‘Oughtn’t ye to have thought of that before?’
“你以前不应该想到这一点吗？”

‘Well, ‘tis a chance for the maid—Still, if ‘twere the doing again, I wouldn’t let her go till I had found out whether the gentleman is really a good-hearted young man and choice over her as his kinswoman.’
“好吧，这对女仆来说是一个机会——不过，如果再有一次，我不会放她走，除非我查明这位先生是否真的是一个心地善良的年轻人，并选择她作为他的亲戚。” .'

‘Yes, you ought, perhaps, to ha’ done that,’ snored Sir John.
“是的，也许你应该这么做，”约翰爵士打鼾道。

Joan Durbeyfield always managed to find consolation somewhere: ‘Well, as one of the genuine stock, she ought to make her way with ‘en, if she plays her trump card aright. And if he don’t marry her afore he will after. For that he’s all afire wi’ love for her any eye can see.’
琼·德北菲尔德总是设法在某个地方找到安慰：“好吧，作为真正的股票之一，如果她正确地发挥了她的王牌，她应该以‘en’的方式成功。”如果他之前不娶她，他就会娶她。为此，他对她的爱如火如荼，任何人都可以看到。

‘What’s her trump card? Her d’Urberville blood, you mean?’
‘她的底牌是什么？你是说她的德伯维尔血统吗？

‘No, stupid; her face—as ‘twas mine.’
“不，笨蛋；”她的脸——就像“这是我的”。

VIII
八

Having mounted beside her, Alec d’Urberville drove rapidly along the crest of the first hill, chatting compliments to Tess as they went, the cart with her box being left far behind. Rising still, an immense landscape stretched around them on every side; behind, the green valley of her birth, before, a gray country of which she knew nothing except from her first brief visit to Trantridge. Thus they reached the verge of an incline down which the road stretched in a long straight descent of nearly a mile.
亚历克·德伯维尔上车到她身边，沿着第一座山的山顶快速行驶，边走边向苔丝夸奖，带着她的盒子的马车被远远地抛在了后面。他们静静地升起，四周都是一片广阔的风景。后面是她出生的绿色山谷，前面是一个灰色的国家，除了第一次短暂访问特兰特里奇之外，她对这个国家一无所知。就这样，他们到达了一个斜坡的边缘，道路沿着斜坡向下延伸，有近一英里的长直下坡。

Ever since the accident with her father’s horse Tess Durbeyfield, courageous as she naturally was, had been exceedingly timid on wheels; the least irregularity of motion startled her. She began to get uneasy at a certain recklessness in her conductor’s driving.
自从她父亲的马发生事故以来，苔丝·德北菲尔德虽然生性勇敢，但在车轮上却非常胆怯。哪怕是最轻微的不规则动作都会让她大吃一惊。她开始对售票员驾驶时的鲁莽行为感到不安。

‘You will go down slow, sir, I suppose?’ she said with attempted unconcern.
“我想您会慢慢下去，先生？”她试图表现出漠不关心的样子。

D’Urberville looked round upon her, nipped his cigar with the tips of his large white centre-teeth, and allowed his lips to smile slowly of themselves.
德伯维尔环视她，用他白色的大牙尖咬着雪茄，让他的嘴唇慢慢地微笑。

‘Why, Tess,’ he answered, after another whiff or two, ‘it isn’t a brave bouncing girl like you who asks that? Why, I always go down at full gallop. There’s nothing like it for raising your spirits.’
“为什么，苔丝，”他又吸了一两口气后回答道，“问这个问题的不是像你这样勇敢的活泼女孩吗？为什么，我总是全速奔跑。没有什么比这更能让你振奋精神了。

‘But perhaps you need not now?’
“但也许你现在不需要？”

‘Ah,’ he said, shaking his head, ‘there are two to be reckoned with. It is not me alone. Tib has to be considered, and she has a very queer temper.’
“啊，”他摇摇头说，“有两个是不可忽视的。”这不是我一个人的事。必须考虑蒂布，而且她的脾气很奇怪。

‘Who?’
'WHO？'

‘Why, this mare. I fancy she looked round at me in a very grim way just then. Didn’t you notice it?’
‘为什么，这匹母马。我想她当时用一种非常严肃的眼神看着我。你没注意到吗？

‘Don’t try to frighten me, sir,’ said Tess stiffly.
“别想吓唬我，先生。”苔丝生硬地说。

‘Well, I don’t. If any living man can manage this horse I can: I won’t say any living man can do it—but if such has the power, I am he.’
” “嗯，我不知道。如果任何活着的人都能驾驭这匹马，我就能：我不会说任何活着的人都能做到——但如果有这种力量，我就是他。

‘Why do you have such a horse?’
“你为什么有一匹马？”

‘Ah, well may you ask it! It was my fate, I suppose. Tib has killed one chap; and just after I bought her she nearly killed me. And then, take my word for it, I nearly killed her. But she’s touchy still, very touchy; and one’s life is hardly safe behind her sometimes.’
‘啊，好吧，你问吧！我想这就是我的命运。蒂布杀了一个人；就在我买下她之后，她差点杀了我。然后，相信我的话，我差点杀了她。但她仍然很敏感，非常敏感。有时候，在她身后，一个人的生活就很难安全。

They were just beginning to descend; and it was evident that the horse, whether of her own will or of his (the latter being the more likely), knew so well the reckless performance expected of her that she hardly required a hint from behind.
他们刚刚开始下降；很明显，这匹马，无论是她自己的意愿还是他的意愿（后者更有可能），都非常清楚她会做出鲁莽的行为，因此她几乎不需要背后的暗示。

Down, down, they sped, the wheels humming like a top, the dog-cart rocking right and left, its axis acquiring a slightly oblique set in relation to the line of progress; the figure of the horse rising and falling in undulations before them. Sometimes a wheel was off the ground, it seemed, for many yards; sometimes a stone was sent spinning over the hedge, and flinty sparks from the horse’s hoofs outshone the daylight. The aspect of the straight road enlarged with their advance, the two banks dividing like a splitting stick; one rushing past at each shoulder.
向下，向下，他们加速前进，车轮像陀螺一样嗡嗡作响，马车左右摇晃，它的轴线相对于行进线稍微倾斜。马的身影在他们面前起伏起伏。有时，一个轮子似乎离地好几码；有时，一个轮子似乎离地很远。有时，一块石头会在树篱上旋转，马蹄发出的坚硬火花盖过了日光。笔直的道路随着他们的前进而扩大，两条河岸像一根劈开的棍子一样分开。每个人的肩膀上都有一个冲过去。

The wind blew through Tess’s white muslin to her very skin, and her washed hair flew out behind. She was determined to show no open fear, but she clutched d’Urberville’s rein-arm.
风吹过苔丝的白色细布，吹到她的皮肤上，洗过的头发飞扬到后面。她决心不表现出公开的恐惧，但她抓住了德伯维尔的缰绳。

‘Don’t touch my arm! We shall be thrown out if you do! Hold on round my waist!’
‘别碰我的手臂！如果你这样做，我们就会被赶出去！抱住我的腰！”

She grasped his waist, and so they reached the bottom.
她搂住他的腰，就这样他们到了底部。

‘Safe, thank God, in spite of your fooling!’ said she, her face on fire.
“安全，感谢上帝，尽管你在愚弄！”她说道，她的脸着火了。

‘Tess—fie! that’s temper!’ said d’Urberville.
‘苔丝——呸！这就是脾气！”德伯维尔说。

‘‘Tis truth.’
“这是事实。”

‘Well, you need not let go your hold of me so thanklessly the moment you feel yourself our of danger.’
“好吧，当你感到自己有危险时，你不必那么吃力不讨好地松开我。”

She had not considered what she had been doing; whether he were man or woman, stick or stone, in her involuntary hold on him. Recovering her reserve, she sat without replying, and thus they reached the summit of another declivity.
她没有考虑过自己在做什么；无论他是男人还是女人，木棍还是石头，都在她不由自主地抓住他的手中。她恢复了克制，坐了下来，没有回答，就这样他们到达了另一个斜坡的顶峰。

‘Now then, again!’ said d’Urberville.
“那么，再来一次！”德伯维尔说。

‘No, no!’ said Tess. ‘Show more sense, do, please.’
“不，不！”苔丝说。 “请表现出更多理智，请这样做。”

‘But when people find themselves on one of the highest points in the county, they must get down again,’ he retorted.
“但是，当人们发现自己处于该县的最高点之一时，他们必须再次下降，”他反驳道。

He loosened rein, and away they went a second time. D’Urberville turned his face to her as they rocked, and said, in playful raillery: ‘Now then, put your arms round my waist again, as you did before, my Beauty.’
他松开缰绳，他们第二次出发了。当他们摇晃时，德伯维尔把脸转向她，开玩笑地说：“现在，再用你的手臂搂住我的腰，就像你以前那样，我的美人。”

‘Never!’ said Tess independently, holding on as well as she could without touching him.
“永远不会！”苔丝独立地说，尽可能地抓住他，不碰他。

‘Let me put one little kiss on those holmberry lips, Tess, or even on that warmed cheek, and I’ll stop—on my honour, I will!’
“苔丝，让我在那双红唇上轻轻一吻，甚至在那温暖的脸颊上，我就会停下来——以我的名誉担保，我会的！”

Tess, surprised beyond measure, slid farther back still on her seat, at which he urged the horse anew, and rocked her the more.
苔丝惊讶极了，她向后退了一步，仍然坐在座位上，这时他又催马，把她摇得更厉害了。

‘Will nothing else do?’ she cried at length, in desperation, her large eyes staring at him like those of a wild animal. This dressing her up so prettily by her mother had apparently been to lamentable purpose.
“没有别的办法吗？”她最后绝望地喊道，她的大眼睛像野兽一样盯着他。她母亲把她打扮得如此漂亮，显然是达到了可悲的目的。

‘Nothing, dear Tess,’ he replied.
“没什么，亲爱的苔丝，”他回答道。

‘Oh, I don’t know—very well; I don’t mind!’ she panted miserably.
“哦，我不知道——非常清楚；但是，我不知道。”我不介意！”她痛苦地喘着气。

He drew rein, and as they slowed he was on the point of imprinting the desired salute, when, as if hardly yet aware of her own modesty, she dodged aside. His arms being occupied with the reins there was left him no power to prevent her manoeuvre.
他拉住了缰绳，当他们放慢速度时，他正要行礼，这时，她躲到了一边，仿佛还没有意识到自己的谦虚。他的双臂握着缰绳，根本没有能力阻止她的行动。

‘Now, damn it—I’ll break both our necks!’ swore her capriciously passionate companion. ‘So you can go from your word like that, you young witch, can you?’
“现在，该死的——我要扭断我们俩的脖子！”她反复无常的热情同伴咒骂道。 “那么你就可以食言了，你这个年轻的女巫，可以吗？”

‘Very well,’ said Tess, ‘I’ll not move since you be so determined! But I—thought you would be kind to me, and protect me, as my kinsman!’
“好吧，”苔丝说，“既然你这么坚决，我就不动了！”但我——以为你会像我的亲戚一样善待我，保护我！”

‘Kinsman be hanged! Now!’
‘亲人被绞死！现在！'

‘But I don’t want anybody to kiss me, sir!’ she implored, a big tear beginning to roll down her face, and the corners of her mouth trembling in her attempts not to cry. ‘And I wouldn’t ha’ come if I had known!’
“但我不想让任何人吻我，先生！”她恳求道，一滴大泪开始从她的脸上滚落，她的嘴角颤抖着，试图不让自己哭出来。 “如果我知道的话我就不会来了！”

He was inexorable, and she sat still, and d’Urberville gave her the kiss of mastery. No sooner had he done so than she flushed with shame, took out her handkerchief, and wiped the spot on her cheek that had been touched by his lips. His ardour was nettled at the sight, for the act on her part had been unconsciously done.
他冷酷无情，而她一动不动地坐着，德伯维尔给了她大师之吻。他话音刚落，她就羞得满脸通红，拿出手帕，擦了擦脸颊上被他嘴唇碰过的地方。他的热情被这一景象激怒了，因为她的行为是无意识的。

‘You are mighty sensitive for a cottage girl!’ said the young man.
“你对于一个乡村女孩来说太敏感了！”年轻人说道。

Tess made no reply to this remark, of which, indeed, she did not quite comprehend the drift, unheeding the snub she had administered by her instinctive rub upon her cheek. She had, in fact, undone the kiss, as far as such a thing was physically possible. With a dim sense that he was vexed she looked steadily ahead as they trotted on near Melbury Down and Wingreen, till she saw, to her consternation, that there was yet another descent to be undergone.
苔丝没有回答这句话，事实上，她不太明白其中的意思，没有注意到她本能地擦着脸颊所表现出的冷落。事实上，在身体上可能发生的情况下，她已经取消了这个吻。当他们在梅尔伯里唐恩和温格林附近小跑时，她隐隐约约地感觉到他很烦恼，她目不转睛地看着前方，直到她惊愕地看到还有另一次下降要经历。

‘You shall be made sorry for that!’ he resumed, his injured tone still remaining, as he flourished the whip anew. ‘Unless, that is, you agree willingly to let me do it again, and no handkerchief.’
“你会为此感到抱歉的！”他继续说道，他的语气中仍然带着受伤的情绪，同时又挥舞着鞭子。 “除非，也就是说，你愿意让我再做一次，而且不带手帕。”

She sighed. ‘Very well, sir!’ she said. ‘Oh—let me get my hat!’
她叹了口气。 “很好，先生！”她说。 “哦——让我去拿我的帽子！”

At the moment of speaking her hat had blown off into the road, their present speed on the upland being by no means slow. D’Urberville pulled up, and said he would get it for her, but Tess was down on the other side.
就在她说话的时候，她的帽子已经被风吹到路上了，他们现在在高地上的速度一点也不慢。德伯维尔停下来，说他会帮她拿，但苔丝在另一边。

She turned back and picked up the article.
她转身拿起那篇文章。

‘You look prettier with it off, upon my soul, if that’s possible,’ he said, contemplating her over the back of the vehicle. ‘Now then, up again! What’s the matter?’
“在我看来，如果可能的话，你脱掉它看起来更漂亮，”他说，在车后打量着她。 ‘现在，再起来吧！怎么了？'

The hat was in place and tied, but Tess had not stepped forward.
帽子已经就位并系好，但苔丝并没有上前。

‘No, sir,’ she said, revealing the red and ivory of her mouth as her eye lit in defiant triumph; ‘not again, if I know it!’
“不，先生，”她说道，露出红色和象牙色的嘴唇，眼睛里闪烁着挑衅的胜利光芒。 “如果我知道的话，就不会再这样了！”

‘What—you won’t get up beside me?’
“什么——你不肯在我身边站起来吗？”

‘No; I shall walk.’
'不;我要步行。

‘‘Tis five or six miles yet to Trantridge.’
“距离特兰特里奇还有五六英里。”

‘I don’t care if ‘tis dozens. Besides, the cart is behind.’
“我不在乎是不是有几十个。”而且，车在后面。”

‘You artful hussy! Now, tell me—didn’t you make that hat blow off on purpose? I’ll swear you did!’
‘你这个狡猾的女人！现在，告诉我——你不是故意让那顶帽子被风吹掉的吗？我发誓你做到了！

Her strategic silence confirmed his suspicion.
她策略性的沉默证实了他的怀疑。

Then d’Urberville cursed and swore at her, and called her everything he could think of for the trick. Turning the horse suddenly he tried to drive back upon her, and so hem her in between the gig and the hedge. But he could not do this short of injuring her.
然后德伯维尔咒骂着她，并用他能想到的一切来称呼她。他突然调转马头，试图冲回她身边，把她围在平底艇和树篱之间。但他不能这样做，除非伤害她。

‘You ought to be ashamed of yourself for using such wicked words!’ cried Tess with spirit, from the top of the hedge into which she had scrambled. ‘I don’t like ‘ee at all! I hate and detest you! I’ll go back to mother, I will!’
“你应该为自己说出如此恶毒的话感到羞耻！”苔丝从她爬进的树篱顶上精神地喊道。 '我一点也不喜欢'ee！我讨厌并且厌恶你！我会回到妈妈身边，我会的！

D’Urberville’s bad temper cleared up at sight of hers; and he laughed heartily.
德伯维尔的坏脾气一见到她就消失了。他开怀大笑。

‘Well, I like you all the better,’ he said. ‘Come, let there be peace. I’ll never do it any more against your will. My life upon it now!’
“好吧，我更喜欢你，”他说。 ‘来吧，让这里和平。我再也不会违背你的意愿了。现在我的生活就靠它了！

Still Tess could not be induced to remount. She did not, however, object to his keeping his gig alongside her; and in this manner, at a slow pace, they advanced towards the village of Trantridge. From time to time d’Urberville exhibited a sort of fierce distress at the sight of the tramping he had driven her to undertake by his misdemeanour. She might in truth have safely trusted him now; but he had forfeited her confidence for the time, and she kept on the ground progressing thoughtfully, as if wondering whether it would be wiser to return home. Her resolve, however, had been taken, and it seemed vacillating even to childishness to abandon it now, unless for graver reasons. How could she face her parents, get back her box, and disconcert the whole scheme for the rehabilitation of her family on such sentimental grounds?
尽管如此，苔丝还是无法重新上马。然而，她并不反对他继续和她一起演出。就这样，他们缓慢地向特兰特里奇村前进。德伯维尔有时会因自己的不当行为而迫使她践踏，表现出一种强烈的痛苦。她现在可能真的已经安全地信任他了；但他暂时失去了她的信心，她继续在地上若有所思地前进，仿佛想知道回家是否更明智。然而，她的决心已经下定了，除非有更严重的原因，否则现在放弃它似乎甚至有些幼稚。她怎么能面对她的父母，拿回她的盒子，并以如此感伤的理由扰乱整个家庭康复计划？

A few minutes later the chimneys of The Slopes appeared in view, and in a snug nook to the right the poultry-farm and cottage of Tess’ destination.
几分钟后，斜坡上的烟囱出现在视野中，在右边一个舒适的角落里，出现了苔丝目的地的家禽农场和小屋。

IX

The community of fowls to which Tess had been appointed as supervisor, purveyor, nurse, surgeon, and friend made its headquarters in an old thatched cottage standing in an enclosure that had once been a garden, but was now a trampled and sanded square. The house was overrun with ivy, its chimney being enlarged by the boughs of the parasite to the aspect of a ruined tower. The lower rooms were entirely given over to the birds, who walked about them with a proprietary air, as though the place had been built by themselves, and not by certain dusty copyholders who now lay east and west in the churchyard. The descendants of these bygone owners felt it almost as a slight to their family when the house which had so much of their affection, had cost so much of their forefathers’ money, and had been in their possession for several generations before the d’Urbervilles came and built here, was indifferently turned into a fowl-house by Mrs Stoke-d’Urberville as soon as the property fell into hand according to law. ‘‘Twas good enough for Christians in grandfather’s time,’ they said.
苔丝被任命为家禽社区的主管、供应商、护士、外科医生和朋友，其总部设在一座古老的茅草屋里，这座小屋坐落在一个曾经是花园的围场里，但现在是一个被践踏和铺沙的广场。房子里爬满了常春藤，它的烟囱被寄生虫的树枝扩大到一座毁坏的塔楼的样子。下层房间完全被鸟儿占据，它们带着一种专有的气氛在里面走来走去，仿佛这个地方是他们自己建造的，而不是由现在墓地东西方的某些尘土飞扬的抄袭者建造的。这些前任业主的后代觉得这对他们的家族来说几乎是一种侮辱，因为这座房子深受他们的喜爱，花费了他们祖先的大量金钱，并且在德伯维尔家族之前就已经由他们拥有了好几代人。这座庄园来到这里并在这里建造，在财产依法落入手中后，斯托克·德伯维尔夫人就毫不在意地把它变成了鸡舍。 “对于祖父时代的基督徒来说，这已经足够好了，”他们说。

The rooms wherein dozens of infants had wailed at their nursing now resounded with the tapping of nascent chicks. Distracted hens in coops occupied spots where formerly stood chairs supporting sedate agriculturists. The chimney-corner and once-blazing hearth was now filled with inverted beehives, in which the hens laid their eggs; while out of doors the plots that each succeeding householder had carefully shaped with his spade were torn by the cocks in wildest fashion.
房间里原本有几十个婴儿因哺乳而哭泣，现在却响起了新生小鸡的拍打声。鸡舍里心烦意乱的母鸡占据了原来放着椅子的地方，支撑着镇定的农民。烟囱角和曾经熊熊燃烧的壁炉现在堆满了倒置的蜂箱，母鸡在里面下蛋。而在室外，每一位继任的户主用铁锹精心打造的土地都被公鸡以最疯狂的方式撕毁。

The garden in which the cottage stood was surrounded by a wall, and could only be entered through a door.
小屋所在的花园被围墙包围，只能通过门进入。

When Tess had occupied herself about an hour the next morning in altering and improving the arrangements, according to her skilled ideas as the daughter of a professed poulterer, the door in the wall opened and a servant in white cap and apron entered. She had come from the manor-house.
第二天早上，当苔丝花了大约一个小时的时间来改变和改进安排时，按照她作为一个自称家禽饲养员的女儿的熟练想法，墙上的门打开了，一个戴着白帽和围裙的仆人走了进来。她是从庄园里来的。

‘Mrs d’Urberville wants the fowls as usual,’ she said; but perceiving that Tess did not quite understand, she explained, ‘Mis’ess is a old lady, and blind.’
“德伯维尔夫人像往常一样想要这些家禽，”她说。但察觉到苔丝不太明白，她解释道：“小姐是一位老太太，而且是个盲人。”

‘Blind!’ said Tess.
“瞎子！”苔丝说。

Almost before her misgiving at the news could find time to shape itself she took, under her companion’s direction, two of the most beautiful of the Hamburghs in her arms, and followed the maid-servant, who had likewise taken two, to the adjacent mansion, which, though ornate and imposing, showed traces everywhere on this side that some occupant of its chambers could bend to the love of dumb creatures—feathers floating within view of the front, and hen-coops standing on the grass.
几乎在她对这个消息的疑虑来得及形成之前，她在同伴的指导下，把两个最美丽的汉堡抱在怀里，跟着女仆，她也带了两个，到了邻近的宅邸。尽管它华丽而雄伟，但在这一侧到处都显示出一些痕迹，房间里的一些居住者可能会屈服于对愚蠢生物的热爱——羽毛漂浮在前面的视野中，鸡笼立在草地上。

In a sitting-room on the ground-floor, ensconced in an armchair with her back to the light, was the owner and mistress of the estate, a white-haired woman of not more than sixty, or even less, wearing a large cap. She had the mobile face frequent in those whose sight has decayed by stages, has been laboriously striven after, and reluctantly let go, rather than the stagnant mien apparent in persons long sightless or born blind. Tess walked up to this lady with her feathered charges—one sitting on each arm.
一楼的客厅里，背对着灯光，坐在扶手椅上的，是庄园的主人兼女主人，一位白发女子，年龄不超过六十岁，甚至还不到六十岁，戴着一顶大帽子。 。她的面孔经常出现在那些视力逐渐衰退、经过艰苦努力、又不情愿地放弃的人身上，而不是长期失明或先天失明的人身上明显的停滞表情。苔丝带着她的羽毛小动物走到这位女士面前——每只手臂上都坐着一只。

‘Ah, you are the young woman come to look after my birds?’ said Mrs d’Urberville, recognizing a new footstep. ‘I hope you will be kind to them. My bailiff tells me you are quite the proper person. Well, where are they? Ah, this is Strut! But he is hardly so lively to-day, is he? He is alarmed at being handled by a stranger, I suppose. And Phena too—yes, they are a little frightened—aren’t you, dears? But they will soon get used to you.’
“啊，你就是那个来照顾我的鸟儿的年轻女子吗？”德伯维尔夫人认出了新的脚步声，说道。 ‘我希望你能善待他们。我的法警告诉我你是个合适的人选。嗯，他们在哪里？啊，这是斯特拉特！但他今天可没这么活泼，是吗？我猜他对被陌生人碰触感到惊慌。还有菲娜——是的，他们有点害怕——不是吗，亲爱的？但他们很快就会习惯你。”

While the old lady had been speaking Tess and the other maid, in obedience to her gestures, had placed the fowls severally in her lap, and she had felt them over from head to tail, examining their beaks, their combs, the manes of the cocks, their wings, and their claws. Her touch enabled her to recognize them in a moment, and to discover if a single feather were crippled or draggled. She handled their crops, and knew what they had eaten, and if too little or too much; her face enacting a vivid pantomime of the criticisms passing in her mind.
老太太说话的时候，苔丝和另一个女仆按照她的手势，把几只家禽分别放在她的腿上，她从头到尾摸索着它们，检查它们的喙、鸡冠、鬃毛。公鸡、它们的翅膀和它们的爪子。她的触摸使她立刻认出了它们，并发现是否有一根羽毛被折断或拖拽。她负责照料他们的庄稼，知道他们吃了什么，是吃得太少还是吃得太多；她的脸上浮现出生动的哑剧，将她脑海中闪过的批评表演出来。

The birds that the two girls had brought in were duly returned to the yard, and the process was repeated till all the pet cocks and hens had been submitted to the old woman—Hamburghs, Bantams, Cochins, Brahmas, Dorkings, and such other sorts as were in fashion just then—her perception of each visitor being seldom at fault as she received the bird upon her knees.
两个女孩带来的鸟儿都按时放回了院子，这个过程不断重复，直到所有的宠物公鸡和母鸡都被交给了老妇人——汉堡鸡、矮脚鸡、科钦鸡、梵天鸡、多金鸡等等。就像当时流行的那样——当她把鸟放在膝盖上时，她认为每个来访者很少有过错。

It reminded Tess of a Confirmation, in which Mrs d’Urberville was the bishop, the fowls the young people presented, and herself and the maid-servant the parson and curate of the parish bringing them up. At the end of the ceremony Mrs d’Urberville abruptly asked Tess, wrinkling and twitching her face into undulations, ‘Can you whistle?’
这让苔丝想起了坚振圣事，其中德伯维尔夫人是主教，年轻人献上家禽，而她自己和女仆则是教区的牧师兼牧师，抚养他们长大。仪式结束时，德伯维尔夫人突然问苔丝，她的脸皱了起来，抽搐着，“你能吹口哨吗？”

‘Whistle, Ma’am?’
“女士，吹口哨吗？”

‘Yes, whistle tunes.’
“是的，口哨曲。”

Tess could whistle like most other country-girls, though the accomplishment was one which she did not care to profess in genteel company. However, she blandly admitted that such was the fact.
苔丝可以像大多数其他乡村女孩一样吹口哨，尽管她不愿意在上流人士的陪伴下承认这一成就。但她却坦然承认，事实就是如此。

‘Then you will have to practise it every day. I had a lad who did it very well, but he has left. I want you to whistle to my bullfinches; as I cannot see them, I like to hear them, and we teach ‘em airs that way. Tell her where the cages are, Elizabeth. You must begin to-morrow, or they will go back in their piping. They have been neglected these several days.’
‘那么你就必须每天练习。我有一个小伙子，他做得很好，但他已经离开了。我要你对我的红腹灰雀吹口哨；因为我看不到它们，所以我喜欢听它们，我们就是这样教它们的。告诉她笼子在哪里，伊丽莎白。你必须明天开始，否则他们就会回去。这几天他们一直被忽视。”

‘Mr d’Urberville whistled to ‘em this morning, ma’am,’ said Elizabeth.
“夫人，德伯维尔先生今天早上向他们吹了口哨，”伊丽莎白说。

‘He! Pooh!’
'他！呸！'

The old lady’s face creased into furrows of repugnance, and she made no further reply.
老太太脸色皱起，皱起厌恶的皱纹，没有再回答。

Thus the reception of Tess by her fancied kinswoman terminated, and the birds were taken back to their quarters. The girl’s surprise at Mrs d’Urberville’s manner was not great; for since seeing the size of the house she had expected no more. But she was far from being aware that the old lady had never heard a word of the so-called kinship. She gathered that no great affection flowed between the blind woman and her son. But in that, too, she was mistaken. Mrs d’Urberville was not the first mother compelled to love her offspring resentfully, and to be bitterly fond.
苔丝幻想中的女亲戚对她的接待就这样结束了，鸟儿也被带回了它们的住处。女孩对德伯维尔夫人的态度并不感到惊讶。因为自从看到房子的大小后，她就不再抱有任何期望了。但她却根本不知道，老太太从来没有听过所谓的亲情这个词。她推测这位盲人妇女和她的儿子之间并没有深厚的感情。但在这一点上，她也错了。德伯维尔夫人并不是第一个被迫怨恨地爱自己的孩子、又苦涩地疼爱孩子的母亲。

In spite of the unpleasant initiation of the day before, Tess inclined to the freedom and novelty of her new position in the morning when the sun shone, now that she was once installed there; and she was curious to test her powers in the unexpected direction asked of her, so as to ascertain her chance of retaining her post. As soon as she was alone within the walled garden she sat herself down on a coop, and seriously screwed up her mouth for the long-neglected practice. She found her former ability to have degenerated to the production of a hollow rush of wind through the lips, and no clear note at all.
尽管前一天的开始是不愉快的，苔丝还是喜欢早晨阳光明媚的时候她的新位置的自由和新奇，因为她已经被安置在那里了。她很想在意想不到的方向上测试自己的能力，以确定自己保住职位的机会。当她独自一人进入有围墙的花园时，她就在鸡舍上坐下来，严重地闭嘴进行长期被忽视的练习。她发现自己以前的能力已经退化为从嘴唇中吹出空洞的风，根本没有清晰的音符。

She remained fruitlessly blowing and blowing, wondering how she could have so grown out of the art which had come by nature, till she became aware of a movement among the ivy-boughs which cloaked the garden-wall no less then the cottage. Looking that way she beheld a form springing from the coping to the plot. It was Alec d’Urberville, whom she had not set eyes on since he had conducted her the day before to the door of the gardener’s cottage where she had lodgings.
她仍然徒劳地吹啊吹，想知道她怎么能从天生的艺术中成长起来，直到她意识到常春藤树枝之间有动静，这些常春藤树枝覆盖着花园的墙壁，就像覆盖着小屋一样。朝那个方向看，她看到一个形体从顶部跳到了地块上。那是亚历克·德伯维尔，自从他前一天带她到她住的园丁小屋门口以来，她就没有见过他。

‘Upon my honour!’ cried he, ‘there was never before such a beautiful thing in Nature or Art as you look, ‘Cousin’ Tess (’Cousin’ had a faint ring of mockery). I have been watching you from over the wall—sitting like IM-patience on a monument, and pouting up that pretty red mouth to whistling shape, and whooing and whooing, and privately swearing, and never being able to produce a note. Why, you are quite cross because you can’t do it.’
“以我的名誉担保！”他喊道，“苔丝‘表弟’（‘表弟’带着淡淡的嘲讽），在自然或艺术中从来没有过如此美丽的事物。”我一直在墙外看着你——像我一样耐心地坐在纪念碑上，撅起那张漂亮的红嘴，吹口哨，呼喊、呼喊，私下咒骂，却始终无法发出任何声音。为什么，你很生气，因为你做不到。

‘I may be cross, but I didn’t swear.’
“我可能很生气，但我没有发誓。”

‘Ah! I understand why you are trying—those bullies! My mother wants you to carry on their musical education. How selfish of her! As if attending to these curst cocks and hens here were not enough work for any girl. I would flatly refuse, if I were you.’
'啊！我明白你们为什么要努力——那些恶霸！我妈妈希望你继续他们的音乐教育。她多么自私啊！好像照顾这些可恶的公鸡和母鸡对任何女孩来说都不够。如果我是你，我会断然拒绝。

‘But she wants me particularly to do it, and to be ready by to-morrow morning.’
“但她特别希望我这么做，并在明天早上之前做好准备。”

‘Does she? Well then—I’ll give you a lesson or two.’
'她是否？那么——我会给你一两课。

‘Oh no, you won’t!’ said Tess, withdrawing towards the door.
“噢，不，你不会的！”苔丝一边说着，一边向门口退去。

‘Nonsense; I don’t want to touch you. See—I’ll stand on this side of the wire-netting, and you can keep on the other; so you may feel quite safe. Now, look here; you screw up your lips too harshly. There ‘tis—so.’
'废话;我不想碰你。看——我站在铁丝网的这一边，你可以站在另一边；所以你可能会感到很安全。现在，看这里；你把你的嘴唇拧得太厉害了。就是这样。”

He suited the action to the word, and whistled a line of ‘Take, O take those lips away.’ But the allusion was lost upon Tess.
他根据这个词做出了相应的动作，并吹了一句口哨：“拿走，哦，把那些嘴唇拿开。”但是苔丝没有听懂这个暗示。

‘Now try,’ said d’Urberville.
“现在试试吧，”德伯维尔说。

She attempted to look reserved; her face put on a sculptural severity. But he persisted in his demand, and at last, to get rid of him, she did put up her lips as directed for producing a clear note; laughing distressfully, however, and then blushing with vexation that she had laughed.
她试图表现得矜持，但事实并非如此。她的脸呈现出雕塑般的严肃。但他坚持要求，最后，为了摆脱他，她确实按照指示扬起了嘴唇，发出了清晰的音符。然而，她却苦恼地笑了，然后又因为自己笑了而气得满脸通红。

He encouraged her with ‘Try again!’
他鼓励她“再试一次！”

Tess was quite serious, painfully serious by this time; and she tried—ultimately and unexpectedly emitting a real round sound. The momentary pleasure of success got the better of her; her eyes enlarged, and she involuntarily smiled in his face.
苔丝此时非常严肃，严肃得令人痛苦。她尝试了——最终出乎意料地发出了真正圆润的声音。一时的成功喜悦占据了她的心。她的眼睛放大了，她不自觉地对着他微笑。

‘That’s it! Now I have started you—you’ll go on beautifully. There—I said I would not come near you; and, in spite of such temptation as never before fell to mortal man, I’ll keep my word... Tess, do you think my mother a queer old soul?’
'就是这样！现在我已经开始你了——你会继续得很漂亮。在那里——我说过我不会靠近你；而且，尽管凡人面临着前所未有的诱惑，我还是会遵守诺言……苔丝，你认为我母亲是一个奇怪的老灵魂吗？

‘I don’t know much of her yet, sir.’
“我对她还不太了解，先生。”

‘You’ll find her so; she must be, to make you learn to whistle to her bullfinches. I am rather out of her books just now, but you will be quite in favour if you treat her live-stock well. Good morning. If you meet with any difficulties and want help here, don’t go to the bailiff, come to me.’
“你会发现她是这样；她一定是这样，为了让你学会向她的红腹灰雀吹口哨。我现在对她的书不太感兴趣，但如果你善待她的牲畜，你会很高兴的。早上好。如果你在这里遇到任何困难并需要帮助，不要去找法警，来找我吧。”

It was in the economy of this régime that Tess Durbeyfield had undertaken to fill a place. Her first day’s experiences were fairly typical of those which followed through many succeeding days. A familiarity with Alec d’Urberville’s presence—which that young man carefully cultivated in her by playful dialogue, and by jestingly calling her his cousin when they were alone—removed much of her original shyness of him, without, however, implanting any feeling which could engender shyness of a new and tenderer kind. But she was more pliable under his hands than a mere companionship would have made her, owing to her unavoidable dependence upon his mother, and, through that lady’s comparative helplessness, upon him.
苔丝·德北菲尔德正是在这个政权的经济中填补了一个空缺。她第一天的经历与随后许多天的经历相当典型。对亚历克·德伯维尔的存在的熟悉——那个年轻人通过有趣的对话，并在他们单独相处时开玩笑地称她为他的表弟，在她身上精心培养了这种熟悉——消除了她原来对他的害羞，然而，没有植入任何感觉可能会产生一种新的、更温柔的害羞。但她在他的手下比单纯的陪伴更容易屈服，因为她不可避免地依赖他的母亲，而且由于那位女士相对无助，也依赖他。

She soon found that whistling to the bullfinches in Mrs d’Urberville’s room was no such onerous business when she had regained the art, for she had caught from her musical mother numerous airs that suited those songsters admirably. A far more satisfactory time than when she practised in the garden was this whistling by the cages each morning. Unrestrained by the young man’s presence she threw up her mouth, put her lips near the bars, and piped away in easeful grace to the attentive listeners.
她很快发现，当她重新获得艺术时，向德伯维尔夫人房间里的红腹灰雀吹口哨并不是一件繁重的事情，因为她从她的音乐母亲那里学到了许多非常适合这些歌唱家的风格。每天早上笼子边吹口哨，比在花园里练习更让她满意。年轻人的出现让她不受约束，张开嘴，把嘴唇贴近栅栏，以轻松优雅的方式向专心聆听的听众吹笛。

Mrs d’Urberville slept in a large four-post bedstead hung with heavy damask curtains, and the bullfinches occupied the same apartment, where they flitted about freely at certain hours, and made little white spots on the furniture and upholstery. Once while Tess was at the window where the cages were ranged, giving her lesson as usual, she thought she heard a rustling behind the bed. The old lady was not present, and turning round the girl had an impression that the toes of a pair of boots were visible below the fringe of the curtains. Thereupon her whistling became so disjointed that the listener, if such there were, must have discovered her suspicion of his presence. She searched the curtains every morning after that, but never found anybody within them. Alec d’Urberville had evidently thought better of his freak to terrify her by an ambush of that kind.
德伯维尔夫人睡在一张挂着厚重锦缎窗帘的四柱大床架上，红腹灰雀也住在同一间公寓里，它们在某些时间自由飞来飞去，在家具和室内装饰上留下小白点。有一次，当苔丝像往常一样在窗边的笼子里上课时，她觉得床后面有沙沙的声音。老太太不在场，女孩转过身来，感觉窗帘的边缘下面有一双靴子的脚趾。于是，她的口哨变得如此杂乱，以至于听者（如果有的话）一定发现了她对他存在的怀疑。此后，她每天早上都检查窗帘，但从未发现里面有任何人。亚历克·德伯维尔显然没有考虑到他的怪胎会用这种伏击来吓唬她。

X

Every village has its idiosyncrasy, its constitution, often its own code of morality. The levity of some of the younger women in and about Trantridge was marked, and was perhaps symptomatic of the choice spirit who ruled The Slopes in that vicinity. The place had also a more abiding defect; it drank hard. The staple conversation on the farms around was on the uselessness of saving money; and smock-frocked arithmeticians, leaning on their ploughs or hoes, would enter into calculations of great nicety to prove that parish relief was a fuller provision for a man in his old age than any which could result from savings out of their wages during a whole lifetime.
每个村庄都有自己的特质、宪法，通常还有自己的道德准则。特兰特里奇及其周边地区一些年轻女性的轻浮态度是显而易见的，这也许是统治该地区斜坡的精挑细选精神的症状。这个地方还有一个更持久的缺陷：它喝得很厉害。周围农场的主要话题是省钱毫无用处。穿着罩衫的算术家靠着犁或锄头，进行极其精确的计算，以证明教区救济对于晚年的人来说是比从整个工资中节省下来的任何救济更充分的供给。寿命。

The chief pleasure of these philosophers lay in going every Saturday night, when work was done, to Chaseborough, a decayed market-town two or three miles distant; and, returning in the small hours of the next morning, to spend Sunday in sleeping off the dyspeptic effects of the curious compounds sold to them as beer by the monopolizers of the once-independent inns.
这些哲学家的主要乐趣在于每个星期六晚上工作完成后，前往蔡斯伯勒，这是一个两三英里外的破旧集镇；第二天凌晨返回，周日，他们在睡觉中度过，以摆脱曾经独立旅馆的垄断者​​以啤酒形式出售的奇怪化合物带来的消化不良影响。

For a long time Tess did not join in the weekly pilgrimages. But under pressure from matrons not much older than herself—for a field-man’s wages being as high at twenty-one as at forty, marriage was early here—Tess at length consented to go. Her first experience of the journey afforded her more enjoyment than she had expected, the hilariousness of the others being quite contagious after her monotonous attention to the poultry-farm all the week. She went again and again. Being graceful and interesting, standing moreover on the momentary threshold of womanhood, her appearance drew down upon her some sly regards from loungers in the streets of Chaseborough; hence, though sometimes her journey to the town was made independently, she always searched for her fellows at nightfall, to have the protection of their companionship homeward.
苔丝很长一段时间没有参加每周一次的朝圣活动。但在比她大不了多少的主妇们的压力下——外勤工的工资二十一岁和四十岁一样高，这里结婚还早——苔丝最终同意了。她的第一次旅程给她带来了比她预想的更多的乐趣，在她一周单调地关注家禽养殖场之后，其他人的欢闹很有感染力。她去了一次又一次。她优雅而有趣，而且刚刚迈入女性的门槛，她的外表引起了蔡斯伯勒街上闲逛者的一些狡猾的问候；因此，虽然有时她是独自进城，但她总是在夜幕降临时寻找同伴，以得到他们的陪伴回家的保障。

This had gone on for a month or two when there came a Saturday in September, on which a fair and a market coincided; and the pilgrims from Trantridge sought double delights at the inns on that account. Tess’s occupations made her late in setting out, so that her comrades reached the town long before her. It was a fine September evening, just before sunset, when yellow lights struggle with blue shades in hairlike lines, and the atmosphere itself forms a prospect without aid from more solid objects, except the innumerable winged insects that dance in it. Through this low-lit mistiness Tess walked leisurely along.
这种情况持续了一两个月，到了九月的一个星期六，恰逢集市和集市。因此，来自特兰特里奇的朝圣者在旅馆中寻求双重乐趣。苔丝的工作使她出发较晚，因此她的战友们比她先到达了小镇。那是九月的一个晴朗的夜晚，就在日落之前，黄色的灯光与发丝般的蓝色阴影搏斗，大气本身形成了一个前景，没有更坚固的物体的帮助，除了无数有翅膀的昆虫在其中跳舞。苔丝在这昏暗的薄雾中悠闲地走着。

She did not discover the coincidence of the market with the fair till she had reached the place, by which time it was close upon dusk. Her limited marketing was soon completed; and then as usual she began to look about for some of the Trantridge cottagers.
直到到达那里，她才发现市场与集市的重合，此时已近黄昏。她有限的营销很快就完成了；然后像往常一样，她开始四处寻找一些特兰特里奇的村民。

At first she could not find them, and she was informed that most of them had gone to what they called a private little jig at the house of a hay-trusser and peat-dealer who had transactions with their farm. He lived in an out-of-the-way nook of the townlet, and in trying to find her course thither her eyes fell upon Mr d’Urberville standing at a street corner.
起初她找不到他们，后来她得知，他们中的大多数人都去了一个与他们的农场有交易的干草捆工和泥炭商人家里的所谓私人小吉格。他住在小镇的一个偏僻角落，在试图找到去那里的路线时，她的目光落在了站在街角的德伯维尔先生身上。

‘What—my Beauty? You here so late?’ he said.
‘什么——我的美人？你这么晚了？”他说。

She told him that she was simply waiting for company homeward.
她告诉他，她只是在等人回家。

‘I’ll see you again,’ said he over her shoulder as she went on down the back lane.
“我会再见到你的。”当她沿着后巷走时，他越过她的肩膀说道。

Approaching the hay-trussers, she could hear the fiddled notes of a reel proceeding from some building in the rear; but no sound of dancing was audible—an exceptional state of things for these parts, where as a rule the stamping drowned the music. The front door being open she could see straight through the house into the garden at the back as far as the shades of night would allow; and nobody appearing to her knock, she traversed the dwelling and went up the path to the outhouse whence the sound had attracted her.
走近干草桁架时，她能听到后面某栋建筑传来卷轴的拨动声。但听不到跳舞的声音——对于这些部分来说这是一种特殊的状态，通常跺脚声淹没了音乐。前门开着，在夜色允许的范围内，她可以直接透过房子看到后面的花园。敲门时没有人出现，她穿过住宅，沿着小路走到外屋，声音就是从那里吸引了她。

It was a windowless erection used for storage, and from the open door there floated into the obscurity a mist of yellow radiance, which at first Tess thought to be illuminated smoke. But on drawing nearer she perceived that it was a cloud of dust, lit by candles within the outhouse, whose beams upon the haze carried forward the outline of the doorway into the wide night of the garden.
那是一座没有窗户的储藏室，从敞开的门里飘来一团黄色光芒的薄雾，苔丝起初以为是被照亮的烟雾。但走近后，她发现那是一团灰尘，被外屋里的蜡烛点燃，薄雾上的光线将门口的轮廓带入花园的广阔夜色中。

When she came close and looked in she beheld indistinct forms racing up and down to the figure of the dance, the silence of their footfalls arising from their being overshoe in ‘scroff’—that is to say, the powdery residuum from the storage of peat and other products, the stirring of which by their turbulent feet created the nebulosity that involved the scene. Through this floating, fusty debris of peat and hay, mixed with the perspirations and warmth of the dancers, and forming together a sort of vegeto-human pollen, the muted fiddles feebly pushed their notes, in marked contrast to the spirit with which the measure was trodden out. They coughed as they danced, and laughed as they coughed. Of the rushing couples there could barely be discerned more than the high lights—the indistinctness shaping them to satyrs clasping nymphs—a multiplicity of Pans whirling a multiplicity of Syrinxes; Lotis attempting to elude Priapus, and always failing.
当她走近一看，她看到一些模糊的人影在舞者的身影上跑来跑去，他们的脚步声之所以寂静，是因为他们穿着“草帽”套鞋——也就是说，是泥炭储存中留下的粉状残留物。和其他产品，它们湍急的脚的搅动创造了涉及场景的云雾。透过这些漂浮的、发霉的泥炭和干草碎片，与舞者的汗水和温暖混合在一起，形成一种植物人花粉，静音的小提琴无力地推动着他们的音符，与小节的精神形成鲜明对比。被践踏了。他们一边跳舞一边咳嗽，一边咳嗽一边笑。在匆匆而来的情侣中，除了高光之外，几乎无法辨认——模糊的形状将他们塑造成紧紧拥抱着仙女的萨特——许多潘斯旋转着许多注射器；洛蒂斯试图躲避普里阿普斯，但总是失败。

At intervals a couple would approach the doorway for air, and the haze no longer veiling their features, the demigods resolved themselves into the homely personalities of her own next-door neighbours. Could Trantridge in two or three short hours have metamorphosed itself thus madly!
每隔一段时间，一对情侣就会走到门口呼吸新鲜空气，雾气不再遮住他们的面容，半神们将自己变成了她隔壁邻居的朴素性格。难道特兰特里奇在短短的两三个小时内就已经疯狂地变形了！

Some Sileni of the throng sat on benches and hay-trusses by the wall; and one of them recognized her.
人群中的一些西莱尼人坐在墙边的长凳和干草桁架上。其中一个认出了她。

‘The maids don’t think it respectable to dance at The Flower-de-Luce,’ he explained. ‘They don’t like to let everybody see which be their fancy-men. Besides, the house sometimes shuts up just when their jints begin to get greased. So we come here and send out for liquor.’
“女仆们认为在露斯之花跳舞是不值得尊敬的，”他解释道。 “他们不喜欢让每个人都看到谁是他们的心上人。此外，当他们开始润滑时，房子有时会关闭。所以我们来这里并派人去买酒。

‘But when be any of you going home?’ asked Tess with some anxiety.
“但是你们什么时候回家呢？”苔丝有些焦急地问道。

‘Now—a’most directly. This is all but the last jig.’
‘现在——’最直接。这只是最后一个夹具。

She waited. The reel drew to a close, and some of the party were in the mind of starting. But others would not, and another dance was formed. This surely would end it, thought Tess. But it merged in yet another. She became restless and uneasy; yet, having waited so long, it was necessary to wait longer; on account of the fair the roads were dotted with roving characters of possibly ill intent; and, though not fearful of measurable dangers, she feared the unknown. Had she been near Marlott she would have had less dread.
她等待着。影片即将结束，一些人正准备开始。但其他人不肯，于是另一种舞蹈就形成了。这肯定会结束它，苔丝想。但它又融入了另一个。她变得焦躁不安。然而，等了这么久，还得等更长的时间。由于集市的缘故，道路上布满了可能怀有恶意的流浪者。尽管她不害怕可衡量的危险，但她害怕未知的事物。如果她靠近马洛特，她的恐惧就会少一些。

‘Don’t ye be nervous, my dear good soul,’ expostulated, between his coughs, a young man with a wet face and his straw hat so far back upon his head that the brim encircled it like the nimbus of a saint. ‘What’s yer hurry? To-morrow is Sunday, thank God, and we can sleep it off in church-time. Now, have a turn with me?’
“别紧张，我亲爱的好心人，”一个脸上湿漉漉的年轻人在咳嗽声中劝告道，他的草帽一直高高地戴在头上，帽檐像圣人的光环一样环绕着它。 ‘你急什么？感谢上帝，明天是周日，我们可以在教堂时间里睡个好觉。现在，跟我一起来吧？

She did not abhor dancing, but she was not going to dance here. The movement grew more passionate: the fiddlers behind the luminous pillar of cloud now and then varied the air by playing on the wrong side of the bridge or with the back of the bow. But it did not matter; the panting shapes spun onwards.
她并不讨厌跳舞，但她不打算在这里跳舞。乐章变得更加热情：发光云柱后面的小提琴手时不时地在琴桥的反面或弓背上演奏来改变空气。但这并不重要；气喘吁吁的身影向前旋转。

They did not vary their partners if their inclination were to stick to previous ones. Changing partners simply meant that a satisfactory choice had not as yet been arrived at by one or other of the pair, and by this time every couple had been suitably matched. It was then that the ecstasy and the dream began, in which emotion was the matter of the universe, and matter but an adventitious intrusion likely to hinder you from spinning where you wanted to spin.
如果他们愿意坚持以前的伴侣，他们就不会改变他们的伴侣。更换伴侣只是意味着其中一方还没有做出令人满意的选择，而此时每对情侣都已经合适了。就在那时，狂喜和梦想开始了，其中情感是宇宙的物质，而物质只是一种偶然的入侵，可能会阻碍你在你想旋转的地方旋转。

Suddenly there was a dull thump on the ground: a couple had fallen, and lay in a mixed heap. The next couple, unable to check its progress, came toppling over the obstacle. An inner cloud of dust rose around the prostrate figures amid the general one of the room, in which a twitching entanglement of arms and legs was discernible.
突然，地上发出沉闷的重击声：一对情侣倒在了地上，混杂在一起。接下来的一对夫妇无法检查其进度，因此翻倒了障碍物。房间里的倒地人物周围升起一团灰尘，可以看出房间里的手臂和腿在抽搐。

‘You shall catch it for this, my gentleman, when you get home!’ burst in female accents from the human heap—those of the unhappy partner of the man whose clumsiness had caused the mishap; she happened also to be his recently married wife, in which assortment there was nothing unusual at Trantridge as long as any affection remained between wedded couples; and, indeed, it was not uncustomary in their later lives, to avoid making odd lots of the single people between whom there might be a warm understanding.
“我的先生，当你回到家时，你会为此受到惩罚的！”人群中突然响起女性口音——这些口音是那个因笨手笨脚造成这场灾难的男人的不幸伴侣的口音。她碰巧也是他新婚的妻子，只要夫妻之间还有感情，这种类型的人在特兰特里奇并没有什么不寻常的。事实上，在他们后来的生活中，避免结交一些可能有温暖了解的单身人士并不是什么不寻常的事情。

A loud laugh from behind Tess’s back, in the shade of the garden, united with the titter within the room. She looked round, and saw the red coal of a cigar: Alec d’Urberville was standing there alone. He beckoned to her, and she reluctantly retreated towards him.
在花园的树荫下，苔丝背后传来一声响亮的笑声，与房间里的窃笑声融为一体。她环顾四周，看到了一支雪茄的红炭：亚历克·德伯维尔独自站在那里。他向她招了招手，她才不情愿地退到他身边。

‘Well, my Beauty, what are you doing here?’
“那么，我的美人，你来这里做什么？”

She was so tired after her long day and her walk that she confided her trouble to him—that she had been waiting ever since he saw her to have their company home, because the road at night was strange to her. ‘But it seems they will never leave off, and I really think I will wait no longer.’
经过漫长的一天和步行之后，她太累了，所以她向他吐露了自己的烦恼——自从他看到她以来，她就一直在等待他们的陪伴回家，因为晚上的路对她来说很陌生。 “但他们似乎永远不会离开，我真的认为我不会再等了。”

‘Certainly do not. I have only a saddle-horse here to-day; but come to The Flower-de-Luce, and I’ll hire a trap, and drive you home with me.’
‘当然不。今天我这里只有一匹鞍马；但到了露斯花店来，我会雇一个陷阱，然后开车送你回家。”

Tess, though flattered, had never quite got over her original mistrust of him, and, despite their tardiness, she preferred to walk home with the work-folk. So she answered that she was much obliged to him, but would not trouble him. ‘I have said that I will wait for ‘em, and they will expect me to now.’
苔丝虽然受宠若惊，但始终没有完全克服她最初对他的不信任，尽管他们迟到了，她还是更愿意和工人一起步行回家。于是她回答说她很感激他，但不会麻烦他。 “我说过我会等他们，他们现在也会等我。”

‘Very well, Miss Independence. Please yourself... Then I shall not hurry... My good Lord, what a kick-up they are having there!’
“很好，独立小姐。请你自己……那我就不着急了……天哪，他们在那里玩得多么开心啊！

He had not put himself forward into the light, but some of them had perceived him, and his presence led to a slight pause and a consideration of how the time was flying. As soon as he had re-lit a cigar and walked away the Trantridge people began to collect themselves from amid those who had come in from other farms, and prepared to leave in a body. Their bundles and baskets were gathered up, and half an hour later, when the clock-chime sounded a quarter past eleven, they were straggling along the lane which led up the hill towards their homes.
他没有把自己暴露在光亮中，但他们中的一些人已经察觉到了他，他的出现让他们稍微停顿了一下，思考时间过得如何。他一重新点燃雪茄，走开，特兰特里奇人就开始从其他农场进来的人中聚集起来，准备集体离开。他们的包裹和篮子都被收拾起来，半小时后，当钟声敲响十一点一刻时，他们正沿着通向山上家的小路散漫。

It was a three-mile walk, along a dry white road, made whiter to-night by the light of the moon.
这是一条三英里的步行路程，沿着一条干燥的白色道路，今晚的月光使道路显得更加洁白。

Tess soon perceived as she walked in the flock, sometimes with this one, sometimes with that, that the fresh night air was producing staggerings and serpentine courses among the men who had partaken too freely; some of the more careless women also were wandering in their gait—to wit, a dark virago, Car Darch, dubbed Queen of Spades, till lately a favourite of d’Urberville’s; Nancy, her sister, nicknamed the Queen of Diamonds; and the young married woman who had already tumbled down. Yet however terrestrial and lumpy their appearance just now to the mean unglamoured eye, to themselves the case was different. They followed the road with a sensation that they were soaring along in a supporting medium, possessed of original and profound thoughts, themselves and surrounding nature forming an organism of which all the parts harmoniously and joyously interpenetrated each other. They were as sublime as the moon and stars above them, and the moon and stars were as ardent as they.
苔丝很快就发现，当她在羊群中行走时，有时与这个，有时与那个，新鲜的夜晚空气在那些过于自由地参与的人们中产生了令人震惊和蜿蜒的路线；一些比较粗心的女人也在步态上徘徊——也就是说，一个深色的泼妇卡·达奇（Car Darch），被称为黑桃皇后，直到最近才成为德伯维尔的最爱。她的妹妹南希（Nancy），绰号“钻石女王”；还有那个已经摔倒的少妇。然而，无论他们现在的外表在平淡无奇的人看来多么平凡和凹凸不平，但对他们自己来说，情况却有所不同。他们沿着这条路走，感觉自己在一个支撑媒介中翱翔，拥有原创而深刻的思想，他们自己和周围的自然形成一个有机体，其中所有部分和谐而愉快地相互渗透。他们如同头顶上的月亮和星星一样崇高，而月亮和星星也和他们一样炽热。

Tess, however, had undergone such painful experiences of this kind in her father’s house that the discovery of their condition spoilt the pleasure she was beginning to feel in the moonlight journey. Yet she stuck to the party, for reasons above given.
然而，苔丝在她父亲的家里经历了如此痛苦的经历，以至于他们的状况的发现破坏了她在月光之旅中开始感受到的快乐。但由于上述原因，她仍然坚持参加该党。

In the open highway they had progressed in scattered order; but now their route was through a field-gate, and the foremost finding a difficulty in opening it, they closed up together.
在开阔的公路上，他们散乱地行进。但现在他们的路线是穿过一个田门，最重要的是发现很难打开它，所以他们一起关闭了。

This leading pedestrian was Car the Queen of Spades, who carried a wicker-basket containing her mother’s groceries, her own draperies, and other purchases for the week. The basket being large and heavy, Car had placed it for convenience of porterage on the top of her head, where it rode on in jeopardized balance as she walked with arms akimbo.
领头的行人是黑桃皇后卡，她提着一个柳条篮，里面装着她母亲的杂货、她自己的窗帘以及本周需要购买的其他物品。篮子又大又重，为了方便搬运，卡把它放在了她的头顶上，当她叉腰走路时，篮子在危险的平衡中行驶。

‘Well—whatever is that a-creeping down thy back, Car Darch?’ said one of the group suddenly.
“好吧——到底是什么东西从你的背上爬下来，卡·达奇？”其中一个人突然说道。

All looked at Car. Her gown was a light cotton print, and from the back of her head a kind of rope could be seen descending to some distance below her waist, like a Chinaman’s queue.
所有人都看着车。她的长袍是浅色棉质印花的，从她的后脑勺可以看到一条绳子垂到腰部以下一段距离，就像中国人的辫子一样。

‘‘Tis her hair falling down,’ said another.
“她的头发掉下来了，”另一个人说。

No; it was not her hair: it was a black stream of something oozing from her basket, and it glistened like a slimy snake in the cold still rays of the moon.
不;那不是她的头发：那是一股黑色的东西从她的篮子里渗出来，在冰冷的月光下闪闪发光，像一条粘糊糊的蛇。

‘‘Tis treacle,’ said an observant matron.
“这是糖浆，”一位细心的护士长说道。

Treacle it was. Car’s poor old grandmother had a weakness for the sweet stuff. Honey she had in plenty out of her own hives, but treacle was what her soul desired, and Car had been about to give her a treat of surprise. Hastily lowering the basket the dark girl found that the vessel containing the syrup had been smashed within.
原来是糖浆。汽车可怜的老祖母很喜欢吃甜食。她从自己的蜂巢里得到了很多蜂蜜，但糖浆才是她灵魂所渴望的，而卡正准备给她一份惊喜。黑衣少女急忙放下篮子，发现里面装有糖浆的容器已经被砸碎了。

By this time there had arisen a shout of laughter at the extraordinary appearance of Car’s back, which irritated the dark queen into getting rid of the disfigurement by the first sudden means available, and independently of the help of the scoffers. She rushed excitedly into the field they were about to cross, and flinging herself flat on her back upon the grass, began to wipe her gown as well as she could by spinning horizontally on the herbage and dragging herself over it upon her elbows.
这时，汽车背部异常的样子引起了一阵大笑，这激怒了黑暗女王，她用第一个可用的突然手段摆脱了毁容，而无需嘲笑者的帮助。她兴奋地冲进他们即将穿过的田野，仰面朝草地上一扑，开始在草丛上水平旋转并用肘部拖着自己的身体，尽可能地擦拭她的长袍。

The laughter rang louder; they clung to the gate, to the posts, rested on their staves, in the weakness engendered by their convulsions at the spectacle of Car. Our heroine, who had hitherto held her peace, at this wild moment could not help joining in with the rest.
笑声更大声了；他们在看到卡尔的景象后全身抽搐，浑身无力，紧抓着大门、柱子，靠在木棍上。我们的女主人公，一直保持沉默，在这个疯狂的时刻，忍不住加入了其他人的行列。

It was a misfortune—in more ways than one. No sooner did the dark queen hear the soberer richer note of Tess among those of the other work-people than a long-smouldering sense of rivalry inflamed her to madness. She sprang to her feet and closely faced the object of her dislike.
这在很多方面都是一种不幸。黑暗女王一听到苔丝在其他工人中发出的更冷静、更丰富的声音，一种长期压抑的竞争感就让她发疯了。她跳了起来，紧紧地面对着她不喜欢的对象。

‘How darest th’ laugh at me, hussy!’ she cried.
“你怎么敢嘲笑我，你这个女人！”她叫道。

‘I couldn’t really help it when t’others did,’ apologized Tess, still tittering.
“当其他人这么做的时候，我实在是没办法。”苔丝抱歉地说道，仍然在窃笑。

‘Ah, th’st think th’ beest everybody, dostn’t, because th’ beest first favourite with He just now! But stop a bit, my lady, stop a bit! I’m as good as two of such! Look here—here’s at ‘ee!’
“啊，大家都认为这是最好的，不是吗，因为刚才他是第一热门！”但是停下来一点，我的女士，停下来一点！我和两个这样的人一样好！看这里——这里是“ee！”

To Tess’s horror the dark queen began stripping off the bodice of her gown—which for the added reason of its ridiculed condition she was only too glad to be free of—till she had bared her plump neck, shoulders, and arms to the moonshine, under which they looked as luminous and beautiful as some Praxitelean creation, in their possession of the faultless rotundities of a lusty country-girl. She closed her fists and squared up at Tess.
令苔丝惊恐的是，黑暗女王开始脱掉她礼服的紧身胸衣——再加上礼服的状况令人嘲笑，她很高兴能摆脱它——直到她把丰满的脖子、肩膀和手臂暴露在月光下，在此之下，她们看起来就像普拉克西特勒斯的某些创造物一样明亮而美丽，拥有一个精力充沛的乡村女孩的完美圆润。她握紧拳头，对着苔丝摆好姿势。

‘Indeed, then, I shall not fight!’ said the latter majestically; ‘and if I had know you was of that sort, I wouldn’t have so let myself down as to come with such a whorage as this is!’
“那么，我确实不会战斗！”后者威严地说。 “如果我知道你是这样的人，我就不会这么让自己失望，带着这样的胡言乱语而来！”

The rather too inclusive speech brought down a torrent of vituperation from other quarters upon fair Tess’s unlucky head, particularly from the Queen of Diamonds, who having stood in the relations to d’Urberville that Car had also been suspected of, united with the latter against the common enemy. Several other women also chimed in, with an animus which none of them would have been so fatuous as to show but for the rollicking evening they had passed. Thereupon, finding Tess unfairly browbeaten, the husbands and lovers tried to make peace by defending her; but the result of that attempt was directly to increase the war.
这段相当包罗万象的讲话，招致了来自其他方面的猛烈的谩骂，尤其是来自钻石女王的谩骂，她与卡也曾被怀疑的德伯维尔关系密切，与后者联合起来反对德伯维尔。共同的敌人。其他几个女人也附和道，她们都怀着敌意，要不是度过了那个热闹的夜晚，她们都不会愚蠢地表现出这种敌意。于是，丈夫和情人发现苔丝受到不公正的威吓，试图通过保护她来求和。但这种企图的结果是直接加剧了战争。

Tess was indignant and ashamed. She no longer minded the loneliness of the way and the lateness of the hour; her one object was to get away from the whole crew as soon as possible. She knew well enough that the better among them would repent of their passion next day. They were all now inside the field, and she was edging back to rush off alone when a horseman emerged almost silently from the corner of the hedge that screened the road, and Alec d’Urberville looked round upon them.
苔丝既愤怒又羞愧。她不再介意路上的孤独和时间的迟早；她的唯一目标就是尽快离开全体船员。她很清楚，他们中的佼佼者第二天就会后悔自己的激情。他们现在都在田野里了，她正慢慢地向后退去，准备独自冲出去，这时一个骑兵几乎无声无息地从挡住道路的树篱一角出现，亚历克·德伯维尔环顾四周看着他们。

‘What the devil is all this row about, work-folk?’ he asked.
“工人们，这一切到底是为了什么？”他问道。

The explanation was not readily forthcoming; and, in truth, he did not require any. Having heard their voices while yet some way off he had ridden creepingly forward, and learnt enough to satisfy himself.
解释并没有立即得到。事实上，他不需要任何东西。距离他们还有一段距离时，他听到了他们的声音，便缓慢地前行，学到了足够多的知识，足以让自己满意。

Tess was standing apart from the rest, near the gate. He bent over towards her. ‘Jump up behind me,’ he whispered, ‘and we’ll get shot of the screaming cats in a jiffy!’
苔丝站在大门附近，远离其他人。他向她弯下腰。 “跳到我身后，”他低声说道，“我们很快就能击中尖叫的猫！”

She felt almost ready to faint, so vivid was her sense of the crisis. At almost any other moment of her life she would have refused such proffered aid and company, as she had refused them several times before; and now the loneliness would not of itself have forced her to do otherwise. But coming as the invitation did at the particular juncture when fear and indignation at these adversaries could be transformed by a spring of the foot into a triumph over them, she abandoned herself to her impulse, climbed the gate, put her toe upon his instep, and scrambled into the saddle behind him. The pair were speeding away into the distant gray by the time that the contentious revellers became aware of what had happened.
她感觉自己快要晕倒了，危机感是如此强烈。几乎在她生命中的任何其他时刻，她都会拒绝这种提供的帮助和陪伴，就像她以前多次拒绝过的那样；现在，孤独本身并不会迫使她做出其他的事。但正如邀请函所发出的邀请，正值对这些对手的恐惧和愤慨可以通过脚的一跳转化为对他们的胜利的特殊时刻，她屈服于自己的冲动，爬上大门，把脚趾放在他的脚背上，然后爬上他身后的马鞍。当有争议的狂欢者意识到发生了什么事时，两人正加速驶入遥远的灰色地带。

The Queen of Spades forgot the stain on her bodice, and stood beside the Queen of Diamonds and the new-married, staggering young woman—all with a gaze of fixity in the direction in which the horse’s tramp was diminishing into silence on the road.
黑桃皇后忘记了她紧身胸衣上的污点，站在方块皇后和新婚的、摇摇晃晃的年轻女子旁边——所有人都目不转睛地看着马蹄声在路上逐渐减弱的方向。

‘What be ye looking at?’ asked a man who had not observed the incident.
“你在看什么？”一个没有目睹这一事件的人问道。

‘Ho-ho-ho!’ laughed dark Car.
“嗬——嗬——嗬！”黑车笑道。

‘Hee-hee-hee!’ laughed the tippling bride, as she steadied herself on the arm of her fond husband.
“嘻嘻嘻！”喝得醉醺醺的新娘在她深爱的丈夫的手臂上站稳了身子，笑着说道。

‘Heu-heu-heu!’ laughed dark Car’s mother, stroking her moustache as she explained laconically: ‘Out of the frying-pan into the fire!’
“嘿嘿嘿！”黑卡的母亲一边笑着一边抚摸着自己的小胡子，简洁地解释道：“从煎锅到火里！”

Then these children of the open air, whom even excess of alcohol could scarce injure permanently, betook themselves to the field-path; and as they went there moved onward with them, around the shadow of each one’s head, a circle of opalized light, formed by the moon’s rays upon the glistening sheet of dew. Each pedestrian could see no halo but his or her own, which never deserted the head-shadow, whatever its vulgar unsteadiness might be; but adhered to it, and persistently beautified it; till the erratic motions seemed an inherent part of the irradiation, and the fumes of their breathing a component of the night’s mist; and the spirit of the scene, and of the moonlight, and of Nature, seemed harmoniously to mingle with the spirit of wine.
然后，这些露天的孩子们，即使过量的酒精也很难对他们造成永久伤害，他们走上田野小路。当他们走到那里时，他们一起向前移动，在每个人头顶的阴影周围，有一圈乳白色的光，是月光照射在闪闪发光的露珠上形成的。每个行人都看不到除了他或她自己的光环之外的任何光环，它永远不会抛弃头影，无论它的粗俗不稳定如何；却坚守它，坚持不懈地美化它；直到不稳定的运动似乎成为辐射的固有部分，而他们呼吸的烟雾成为夜雾的一部分；场景的精神、月光的精神和自然的精神似乎与酒的精神和谐地融为一体。

XI

The twain cantered along for some time without speech, Tess as she clung to him still panting in her triumph, yet in other respects dubious. She had perceived that the horse was not the spirited one he sometimes rose, and felt no alarm on that score, though her seat was precarious enough despite her tight hold of him. She begged him to slow the animal to a walk, which Alec accordingly did.
两人慢吞吞地走了一段时间，一言不发，苔丝紧紧抱住他，仍然因胜利而气喘吁吁，但在其他方面却有些可疑。她察觉到这匹马并不是他有时所起的那匹活泼的马，因此并没有感到惊慌，尽管尽管她紧紧地抱住了他，但她的座位还是很不稳定。她恳求他放慢动物的速度，亚历克照做了。

‘Neatly done, was it not, dear Tess?’ he said by and by.
“干得漂亮，不是吗，亲爱的苔丝？”他渐渐说道。

‘Yes!’ said she. ‘I am sure I ought to be much obliged to you.’
“是的！”她说。 “我确信我应该非常感谢你。”

‘And are you?’
“你是吗？”

She did not reply.
她没有回答。

‘Tess, why do you always dislike my kissing you?’
“苔丝，你为什么总是不喜欢我吻你？”

‘I suppose—because I don’t love you.’
“我想——因为我不爱你。”

‘You are quite sure?’
“你确定吗？”

‘I am angry with you sometimes!’
“有时我很生你的气！”

‘Ah, I half feared as much.’ Nevertheless, Alec did not object to that confession. He knew that anything was better then frigidity. ‘Why haven’t you told me when I have made you angry?’
“啊，我也有一半担心。”不过，亚历克并不反对这种坦白。他知道什么都比性冷淡更好。 “我惹你生气了，你为什么不告诉我？”

‘You know very well why. Because I cannot help myself here.’
‘你很清楚为什么。因为我在这里无法自拔。

‘I haven’t offended you often by love-making?’
“我没有经常做爱得罪你吗？”

‘You have sometimes.’
“有时候你会这样。”

‘How many times?’
'多少次？'

‘You know as well as I—too many times.’
“你和我一样清楚——太多次了。”

‘Every time I have tried?’
“每次我都尝试过？”

She was silent, and the horse ambled along for a considerable distance, till a faint luminous fog, which had hung in the hollows all the evening, became general and enveloped them. It seemed to hold the moonlight in suspension, rendering it more pervasive than in clear air. Whether on this account, or from absent-mindedness, or from sleepiness, she did not perceive that they had long ago passed the point at which the lane to Trantridge branched from the highway, and that her conductor had not taken the Trantridge track.
她一声不吭，马儿缓步走了很长一段距离，直到一整晚都笼罩在山谷中的微弱发光雾变得普遍起来，笼罩了他们。它似乎让月光悬浮起来，使它比晴朗的空气中更普遍。不知是因为这个原因，还是因为心不在焉，或者是因为困倦，她没有意识到他们早已过了通往特兰特里奇的车道从高速公路的分支点，而她的售票员也没有走上特兰特里奇的轨道。

She was inexpressibly weary. She had risen at five o’clock every morning of that week, had been on foot the whole of each day, and on this evening had in addition walked the three miles to Chaseborough, waited three hours for her neighbours without eating or drinking, her impatience to start them preventing either; she had then walked a mile of the way home, and had undergone the excitement of the quarrel, till, with the slow progress of their steed, it was now nearly one o’clock. Only once, however, was she overcome by actual drowsiness. In that moment of oblivion her head sank gently against him.
她有说不出的疲倦。那一周，她每天早上五点钟就起床，每天都步行，而且当天晚上还步行了三英里去蔡斯伯勒，不吃不喝地等了三个小时，等了邻居。不耐烦地开始阻止其中任何一个；然后她走了一英里回家，经历了争吵的兴奋，直到随着他们的马慢慢前行，现在已经快一点了。然而，只有一次她真正感到困倦。在那一瞬间的遗忘中，她的头轻轻地靠在了他身上。

D’Urberville stopped the horse, withdrew his feet from the stirrups, turned sideways on the saddle, and enclosed her waist with his arm to support her.
德伯维尔停下马，将脚从马镫上退开，在马鞍上侧身，用手臂环住她的腰，支撑着她。

This immediately put her on the defensive, and with one of those sudden impulses of reprisal to which she was liable she gave him a little push from her. In his ticklish position he nearly lost his balance and only just avoided rolling over into the road, the horse, though a powerful one, being fortunately the quietest he rode.
这立刻让她处于防御状态，她突然有一种报复的冲动，她把他推开了。在这个令人发痒的姿势中，他几乎失去了平衡，只是避免了滚到路上，这匹马虽然是一匹强大的马，但幸运的是他骑的最安静。

‘That is devilish unkind!’ he said. ‘I mean no harm—only to keep you from falling.’
“这太不友善了！”他说。 “我无意伤害——只是为了防止你跌倒。”

She pondered suspiciously, till, thinking that this might after all be true, she relented, and said quite humbly, ‘I beg your pardon, sir.’
她疑惑地想了想，直到想到这可能是真的，她才松了口气，谦虚地说：“请原谅，先生。”

‘I won’t pardon you unless you show some confidence in me. Good God!’ he burst out, ‘what am I, to be repulsed so by a mere chit like you? For near three mortal months have you trifled with my feelings, eluded me, and snubbed me; and I won’t stand it!’
“除非你对我表现出一些信心，否则我不会原谅你。天啊！”他大声说道，“我算什么，竟然会被你这样的小东西如此排斥？近三个月来，你一直在玩弄我的感情，躲避我，冷落我；我受不了！

‘I’ll leave you to-morrow, sir.’
“我明天就离开你，先生。”

‘No, you will not leave me to-morrow! Will you, I ask once more, show your belief in me by letting me clasp you with my arm? Come, between us two and nobody else, now. We know each other well; and you know that I love you, and think you the prettiest girl in the world, which you are. Mayn’t I treat you as a lover?’
“不，明天你不会离开我！”我再次问你，你愿意让我用手臂拥抱你，以表明你对我的信任吗？来吧，现在就我们两个人之间，没有其他人。我们彼此很了解；你知道我爱你，并认为你是世界上最漂亮的女孩，事实也确实如此。难道我不能把你当情人吗？

She drew a quick pettish breath of objection, writhing uneasily on her seat, looked far ahead, and murmured, ‘I don’t know—I wish—how can I say yes or no when—‘
她轻快地吸了一口气，表示反对，在座位上不安地扭动着，看着前方，低声说道：“我不知道——我希望——我怎么能说是或不，当——”

He settled the matter by clasping his arm round her as he desired, and Tess expressed no further negative. Thus they sidled slowly onward till it struck her they had been advancing for an unconscionable time—far longer than was usually occupied by the short journey from Chaseborough, even at this walking pace, and that they were no longer on hard road, but in a mere trackway.
他按照自己的意愿用手臂搂住了她，解决了这件事，苔丝也没有再表示消极。就这样，他们慢慢地侧着身子向前走，直到她突然意识到，他们已经前进了一段不合情理的时间——比通常从蔡斯伯勒出发的短途路程所花费的时间要长得多，即使是以这种步行速度，而且他们不再走在艰难的道路上，而是在一个艰难的道路上。只是轨道。

‘Why, where be we?’ she exclaimed.
“为什么，我们在哪儿？”她惊呼道。

‘Passing by a wood.’
“经过一片树林。”

‘A wood—what wood? Surely we are quite out of the road?’
‘一块木头——什么木头？我们肯定已经远离道路了吧？

‘A bit of The Chase—the oldest wood in England. It is a lovely night, and why should we not prolong our ride a little?’
“Chase 的一点点——英格兰最古老的树林。”这是一个美好的夜晚，为什么我们不应该延长我们的旅程呢？

‘How could you be so treacherous!’ said Tess, between archness and real dismay, and getting rid of his arm by pulling open his fingers one by one, though at the risk of slipping off herself. ‘Just when I’ve been putting such trust in you, and obliging you to please you, because I thought I had wronged you by that push! Please set me down, and let me walk home.’
“你怎么能这么奸诈！”苔丝在顽皮和真正的沮丧之间说道，她一根一根地拉开他的手指，摆脱了他的手臂，尽管冒着滑倒的危险。 ‘就在我如此信任你，并强迫你取悦你的时候，因为我认为我的推动冤枉了你！请把我放下，让我走回家。”

‘You cannot walk home, darling, even if the air were clear. We are miles away from Trantridge, if I must tell you, and in this growing fog you might wander for hours among these trees.’
“亲爱的，即使空气晴朗，你也无法步行回家。如果我必须告诉你的话，我们距离特兰特里奇有几英里远，在这越来越大的雾气中，你可能会在这些树林中徘徊几个小时。

‘Never mind that,’ she coaxed. ‘Put me down, I beg you. I don’t mind where it is; only let me get down, sir, please!’
“别介意，”她哄道。 ‘放我下来，我求你了。我不介意它在哪里；请让我下来，先生！”

‘Very well, then, I will—on one condition. Having brought you here to this out-of-the-way place, I feel myself responsible for your safe-conduct home, whatever you may yourself feel about it. As to your getting to Trantridge without assistance, it is quite impossible; for, to tell the truth, dear, owing to this fog, which so disguises everything, I don’t quite know where we are myself. Now, if you will promise to wait beside the horse while I walk through the bushes till I come to some road or house, and ascertain exactly our whereabouts, I’ll deposit you here willingly. When I come back I’ll give you full directions, and if you insist upon walking you may; or you may ride—at your pleasure.’
“那好吧，我愿意——但有一个条件。”把你带到这个偏僻的地方后，我觉得自己对你的家的安全负责，无论你自己对此有何感受。至于你在没有帮助的情况下到达特兰特里奇，那是完全不可能的。因为，说实话，亲爱的，由于这片大雾，它掩盖了一切，我自己也不太知道我们在哪里。现在，如果你答应在我穿过灌木丛时在马旁边等着，直到我到达某条路或某所房子，并确定我们的确切位置，我很乐意将你安置在这里。当我回来时，我会给你完整的指示，如果你坚持步行，你可以；或者你也可以骑——随你的意。

She accepted these terms, and slid off on the near side, though not till he had stolen a cursory kiss. He sprang down on the other side.
她接受了这些条件，然后滑到了近侧，尽管直到他偷偷地吻了一下。他从另一边跳了下来。

‘I suppose I must hold the horse?’ said she.
“我想我必须牵着马？”她说。

‘Oh no; it’s not necessary,’ replied Alec, patting the panting creature. ‘He’s had enough of it for to-night.’
'不好了; “没必要。”亚历克回答道，拍拍这个气喘吁吁的生物。 “今晚他已经受够了。”

He turned the horse’s head into the bushes, hitched him on to a bough, and made a sort of couch or nest for her in the deep mass of dead leaves.
他把马头埋进灌木丛，把它拴在一根树枝上，然后在深深的枯叶中为她搭了一个沙发或巢。

‘Now, you sit there,’ he said. ‘The leaves have not got damp as yet. Just give an eye to the horse—it will be quite sufficient.’
“现在，你坐在那里，”他说。 ‘叶子还没有湿。只要照看一下马就足够了。”

He took a few steps away from her, but, returning, said, ‘By the bye, Tess, your father has a new cob to-day. Somebody gave it to him.’
他离开她几步，但又回来了，说道：“再见，苔丝，你父亲今天有了一只新的玉米棒子。”有人给了他。

‘Somebody? You!’
‘有人吗？你！'

D’Urberville nodded.
德伯维尔点点头。

‘O how very good of you that is!’ she exclaimed, with a painful sense of the awkwardness of having to thank him just then.
“哦，你真是太好了！”她大声说道，因为此时不得不感谢他，她感到一种痛苦的尴尬。

‘And the children have some toys.’
“孩子们有一些玩具。”

‘I didn’t know—you ever sent them anything!’ she murmured, much moved. ‘I almost wish you had not—yes, I almost wish it!’
“我不知道——你给他们寄过任何东西！”她低声说道，非常感动。 “我几乎希望你没有——是的，我几乎希望它！”

‘Why, dear?’
“为什么，亲爱的？”

‘It—hampers me so.’
“它——太妨碍我了。”

‘Tessy—don’t you love me ever so little now?’
“泰西——你现在不爱我了吗？”

‘I’m grateful,’ she reluctantly admitted. ‘But I fear I do not—‘ The sudden vision of his passion for herself as a factor in this result so distressed her that, beginning with one slow tear, and then following with another, she wept outright.
“我很感激，”她不情愿地承认。 “但我担心我不——”突然想到他对自己的热情是造成这一结果的一个因素，这让她非常痛苦，她先是缓缓流下一滴眼泪，然后又流下另一滴眼泪，哭得彻底。

‘Don’t cry, dear, dear one! Now sit down here, and wait till I come.’ She passively sat down amid the leaves he had heaped, and shivered slightly. ‘Are you cold?’ he asked.
‘别哭，亲爱的，亲爱的！你先坐在这里，等我来。”她被动地坐在他堆起的树叶中间，微微颤抖着。 “你冷吗？”他问。

‘Not very—a little.’
“不太——有一点。”

He touched her with his fingers, which sank into her as into down. ‘You have only that puffy muslin dress on—how’s that?’
他用手指触碰她，手指深深地陷进她的身体里。 “你只穿着那件蓬松的平纹细布连衣裙——怎么样？”

‘It’s my best summer one. ‘Twas very warm when I started, and I didn’t know I was going to ride, and that it would be night.’
“这是我最好的夏天。 “我开始骑行时天气非常暖和，我不知道我要骑行，而且那会是晚上。”

‘Nights grow chilly in September. Let me see.’ He pulled off a light overcoat that he had worn, and put it round her tenderly. ‘That’s it—now you’ll feel warmer,’ he continued. ‘Now, my pretty, rest there; I shall soon be back again.’
“九月的夜晚变得寒冷。让我看看。”他脱下身上的一件薄外套，温柔地给她披上。 “就是这样——现在你会感觉更温暖了，”他继续说道。 “现在，我的美人，就在那儿休息吧；我很快就会回来。

Having buttoned the overcoat round her shoulders he plunged into the webs of vapour which by this time formed veils between the trees. She could hear the rustling of the branches as he ascended the adjoining slope, till his movements were no louder than the hopping of a bird, and finally died away. With the setting of the moon the pale light lessened, and Tess became invisible as she fell into reverie upon the leaves where he had left her.
他把大衣的扣子扣在她的肩上，一头扎进了蒸汽网中，此时蒸汽网在树林之间形成了面纱。当他爬上毗邻的斜坡时，她能听到树枝的沙沙声，直到他的动作不比鸟儿的跳跃声大，最后才消失。随着月色的落下，苍白的光芒减弱了，苔丝变得看不见了，她在他离开的树叶上陷入沉思。

In the meantime Alec d’Urberville had pushed on up the slope to clear his genuine doubt as to the quarter of The Chase they were in. He had, in fact, ridden quite at random for over an hour, taking any turning that came to hand in order to prolong companionship with her, and giving far more attention to Tess’s moonlit person than to any wayside object. A little rest for the jaded animal being desirable, he did not hasten his search for landmarks. A clamber over the hill into the adjoining vale brought him to the fence of a highway whose contours he recognized, which settled the question of their whereabouts. D’Urberville thereupon turned back; but by this time the moon had quite gone down, and partly on account of the fog The Chase was wrapped in thick darkness, although morning was not far off. He was obliged to advance with outstretched hands to avoid contact with the boughs, and discovered that to hit the exact spot from which he had started was at first entirely beyond him. Roaming up and down, round and round, he at length heard a slight movement of the horse close at hand; and the sleeve of his overcoat unexpectedly caught his foot.
与此同时，亚历克·德伯维尔已经推上了斜坡，以消除他对他们所在的追逐区的真正怀疑。事实上，他已经相当随意地骑了一个多小时，采取任何转弯。为了延长与苔丝的陪伴，她对月光下的人给予了更多的关注，而不是任何路边的物体。对于这头疲惫不堪的动物来说，稍微休息一下是可取的，他没有加快寻找地标的速度。翻过山丘进入毗邻的山谷，他来到了一条高速公路的围栏处，他认出了高速公路的轮廓，这解决了他们的下落问题。德伯维尔随即回头。但此时月亮已经完全落下去了，部分原因是大雾，虽然离黎明已经不远了，但蔡斯周围笼罩在浓浓的黑暗之中。他不得不伸出双手前进，以避免与树枝接触，并发现一开始他完全无法到达他出发的确切位置。他上上下下地走来走去，一圈又一圈，终于听到近旁的马匹轻微的动静。没想到大衣的袖子绊住了他的脚。

‘Tess!’ said d’Urberville.
“苔丝！”德伯维尔说。

There was no answer. The obscurity was now so great that he could see absolutely nothing but a pale nebulousness at his feet, which represented the white muslin figure he had left upon the dead leaves. Everything else was blackness alike. D’Urberville stooped; and heard a gentle regular breathing. He knelt and bent lower, till her breath warmed his face, and in a moment his cheek was in contact with hers. She was sleeping soundly, and upon her eyelashes there lingered tears.
没有人回答。现在天色变得如此昏暗，他除了脚下一片苍白的云雾之外什么也看不见，这代表了他留在枯叶上的白色平纹细布身影。其他一切都一样漆黑一片。德伯维尔弯下腰；并听到轻柔规律的呼吸声。他跪下来，弯下腰，直到她的呼吸温暖了他的脸，刹那间，他的脸颊就贴到了她的脸颊上。她睡得很熟，睫毛上还挂着泪水。

Darkness and silence ruled everywhere around. Above them rose the primeval yews and oaks of The Chase, in which there poised gentle roosting birds in their last nap; and about them stole the hopping rabbits and hares. But, might some say, where was Tess’s guardian angel? where was the providence of her simple faith? Perhaps, like that other god of whom the ironical Tishbite spoke, he was talking, or he was pursuing, or he was in a journey, or he was sleeping and not to be awaked.
黑暗和寂静笼罩着周围的一切。在它们上方，矗立着蔡斯的原始紫杉和橡树，里面栖息着温柔的鸟儿，正在进行最后的小憩。他们周围偷走了跳跃的兔子和野兔。但是，也许有人会说，苔丝的守护天使在哪里？她单纯的信仰的天意在哪里？也许，就像讽刺的提斯比特人所说的另一个神一样，他正在说话，或者他正在追求，或者他正在旅途，或者他正在睡觉而不是被唤醒。

Why it was that upon this beautiful feminine tissue, sensitive as gossamer, and practically blank as snow as yet, there should have been traced such a coarse pattern as it was doomed to receive; why so often the coarse appropriates the finer thus, the wrong man the woman, the wrong woman the man, many thousand years of analytical philosophy have failed to explain to our sense of order. One may, indeed, admit the possibility of a retribution lurking in the present catastrophe. Doubtless some of Tess d’Urberville’s mailed ancestors rollicking home from a fray had dealt the same measure even more ruthlessly towards peasant girls of their time. But though to visit the sins of the fathers upon the children may be a morality good enough for divinities, it is scorned by average human nature; and it therefore does not mend the matter.
为什么在这片美丽的女性组织上，敏感如游丝，几乎空白如雪，应该被描绘出如此粗糙的图案，因为它注定要接受；为什么呢？为什么如此频繁地以粗取精，男人错了女人，女人错了男人，数千年的分析哲学未能向我们的秩序感解释。事实上，人们可能承认当前的灾难中潜藏着报复的可能性。毫无疑问，苔丝·德伯维尔的一些被邮寄的祖先在打架后欢快地回家时，对他们那个时代的农家女孩也采取了同样的措施，甚至更加残酷。尽管将父亲的罪过归咎于孩子对于神来说可能是一种足够好的道德，但它却被普通人的本性所蔑视。因此它并不能解决问题。

As Tess’s own people down in those retreats are never tired of saying among each other in their fatalistic way: ‘It was to be.’ There lay the pity of it. An immeasurable social chasm was to divide our heroine’s personality thereafter from that previous self of hers who stepped from her mother’s door to try her fortune at Trantridge poultry-farm.
正如苔丝自己的人在那些隐居处一样，从不厌倦地用宿命论的方式彼此说：“本来就是这样。”这就是遗憾。此后，我们女主人公的性格与她走出母亲家门，到特兰特里奇家禽养殖场碰碰运气的那个自己之间存在着不可估量的社会鸿沟。

END OF PHASE THE FIRST
第一阶段结束

Phase the Second: Maiden No More
第二阶段：少女不再

XII
十二

The basket was heavy and the bundle was large, but she lugged them along like a person who did not find her especial burden in material things. Occasionally she stopped to rest in a mechanical way by some gate or post; and then, giving the baggage another hitch upon her full round arm, went steadily on again.
篮子很重，包裹也很大，但她拖着它们走，就像一个不觉得物质上有什么特别负担的人一样。偶尔她会机械地在某个门或柱子旁停下来休息。然后，她又把行李套在她那圆圆的手臂上，继续稳步前行。

It was a Sunday morning in late October, about four months after Tess Durbeyfield’s arrival at Trantridge, and some few weeks subsequent to the night ride in The Chase. The time was not long past daybreak, and the yellow luminosity upon the horizon behind her back lighted the ridge towards which her face was set—the barrier of the vale wherein she had of late been a stranger—which she would have to climb over to reach her birthplace. The ascent was gradual on this side, and the soil and scenery differed much from those within Blakemore Vale. Even the character and accent of the two peoples had shades of difference, despite the amalgamating effects of a roundabout railway; so that, though less than twenty miles from the place of her sojourn at Trantridge, her native village had seemed a far-away spot. The field-folk shut in there traded northward and westward, travelled, courted, and married northward and westward, thought northward and westward; those on this side mainly directed their energies and attention to the east and south.
那是十月下旬的一个周日早晨，距离苔丝·德北菲尔德抵达特兰特里奇大约四个月，也是在蔡斯夜骑之后的几个星期。时间刚过黎明不久，她身后地平线上的黄色光亮照亮了她脸所朝向的山脊——她最近对那里陌生的山谷的屏障——她必须爬过去才能到达。到达她的出生地。这边的上升是平缓的，土壤和风景与布莱克莫尔谷内的有很大不同。尽管有环岛铁路的融合作用，但两国人民的性格和口音也存在细微差别。因此，尽管距离她在特兰特里奇的逗留地不到二十英里，她的家乡却显得很遥远。关在那里的田野居民向北方和西方进行贸易、旅行、求爱、结婚，向北方和西方思考；这边的人主要把精力和注意力集中在东部和南部。

The incline was the same down which d’Urberville had driven her so wildly on that day in June. Tess went up the remainder of its length without stopping, and on reaching the edge of the escarpment gazed over the familiar green world beyond, now half-veiled in mist. It was always beautiful from here; it was terribly beautiful to Tess to-day, for since her eyes last fell upon it she had learnt that the serpent hisses where the sweet birds sing, and her views of life had been totally changed for her by the lesson. Verily another girl than the simple one she had been at home was she who, bowed by thought, stood still here, and turned to look behind her. She could not bear to look forward into the Vale.
六月的那一天，德伯维尔疯狂地驱赶她下坡，坡度与她所走的坡度是一样的。苔丝没有停下来，继续走完剩下的路程，到达悬崖边缘时，她凝视着远处熟悉的绿色世界，现在，世界已半笼罩在薄雾中。从这里看去总是很美丽；今天对苔丝来说真是太美了，因为自从她最后一次看到它之后，她就知道蛇在甜美的鸟儿歌唱时发出嘶嘶声，她对生活的看法也因这堂课而完全改变了。与在家中那个单纯的女孩相比，她确实是另一个女孩，她因思想而低头，一动不动地站在这里，转身向后看。她无法忍受展望山谷。

Ascending by the long white road that Tess herself had just laboured up, she saw a two-wheeled vehicle, beside which walked a man, who held up his hand to attract her attention.
沿着苔丝自己刚刚辛苦走完的那条白色的长路往上走，她看到一辆两轮车，旁边走着一个男人，他举起手来吸引她的注意。

She obeyed the signal to wait for him with unspeculative repose, and in a few minutes man and horse stopped beside her.
她听从了信号，平静地等待他，几分钟后，人和马就停在了她身边。

‘Why did you slip away by stealth like this?’ said d’Urberville, with upbraiding breathlessness; ‘on a Sunday morning, too, when people were all in bed! I only discovered it by accident, and I have been driving like the deuce to overtake you. Just look at the mare. Why go off like this? You know that nobody wished to hinder your going. And how unnecessary it has been for you to toil along on foot, and encumber yourself with this heavy load! I have followed like a madman, simply to drive you the rest of the distance, if you won’t come back.’
“你为什么要这样偷偷地溜走？”德伯维尔气喘吁吁地说。 “也是在周日早上，当时人们都已经上床睡觉了！”我只是偶然发现的，而且我一直开得很好，想要超越你。只要看看母马就知道了。为什么就这样走了？你知道没有人愿意阻碍你的前进。你步行劳作，背负如此重的担子，是多么没有必要啊！我像个疯子一样跟着，只是为了开车送你走完剩下的路程，如果你不回来的话。

‘I shan’t come back,’ said she.
“我不会回来了，”她说。

‘I thought you wouldn’t—I said so! Well, then, put up your basket, and let me help you on.’
“我以为你不会——我就是这么说的！好吧，那么，把你的篮子收起来，让我帮你。”

She listlessly placed her basket and bundle within the dog-cart, and stepped up, and they sat side by side. She had no fear of him now, and in the cause of her confidence her sorrow lay.
她无精打采地将篮子和包袱放进狗车里，然后走上前去，他们并排坐着。她现在不再害怕他了，她的悲伤源于她的信任。

D’Urberville mechanically lit a cigar, and the journey was continued with broken unemotional conversation on the commonplace objects by the wayside. He had quite forgotten his struggle to kiss her when, in the early summer, they had driven in the opposite direction along the same road. But she had not, and she sat now, like a puppet, replying to his remarks in monosyllables. After some miles they came in view of the clump of trees beyond which the village of Marlott stood. It was only then that her still face showed the least emotion, a tear or two beginning to trickle down.
德伯维尔机械地点燃了一支雪茄，旅程继续，在路边常见的物品上断断续续、毫无感情地交谈着。他完全忘记了初夏时节，当他们沿着同一条路向相反的方向行驶时，他费力去吻她。但她没有，现在她像个木偶一样坐着，用单音节回答他的话。几英里后，他们看到了树林，远处就是马洛特村。直到这时，她那静止的脸上才露出了一丝情绪，一两滴泪水开始淌下来。

‘What are you crying for?’ he coldly asked.
“你哭什么？”他冷冷地问道。

‘I was only thinking that I was born over there,’ murmured Tess.
“我只是以为我出生在那里，”苔丝低声说道。

‘Well—we must all be born somewhere.’
“嗯——我们都必须出生在某个地方。”

‘I wish I had never been born—there or anywhere else!’
“我希望我从未出生过——在那里或其他任何地方！”

‘Pooh! Well, if you didn’t wish to come to Trantridge why did you come?’
'呸！好吧，如果你不想来特兰特里奇，那你为什么来呢？

She did not reply.
她没有回答。

‘You didn’t come for love of me, that I’ll swear.’
“我发誓，你不是为了爱我才来的。”

‘‘Tis quite true. If I had gone for love o’ you, if I had ever sincerely loved you, if I loved you still, I should not so loathe and hate myself for my weakness as I do now! ... My eyes were dazed by you for a little, and that was all.’
” “这是千真万确的。如果我是为了爱你而去的，如果我曾经真诚地爱过你，如果我还爱你，我就不会像现在这样厌恶和憎恨自己的软弱！ ……我的眼睛被你迷惑了一会儿，仅此而已。

He shrugged his shoulders. She resumed—
他耸耸肩。她继续——

‘I didn’t understand your meaning till it was too late.’
“我没明白你的意思，直到为时已晚。”

‘That’s what every woman says.’
“每个女人都这么说。”

‘How can you dare to use such words!’ she cried, turning impetuously upon him, her eyes flashing as the latent spirit (of which he was to see more some day) awoke in her. ‘My God! I could knock you out of the gig! Did it never strike your mind that what every woman says some women may feel?’
“你怎么敢用这样的词！”她大声喊道，急躁地转向他，当潜在的灵魂（有一天他会看到更多）在她体内苏醒时，她的眼睛闪烁着光芒。 '我的上帝！我可以把你赶出演出！你有没有想过，每个女人所说的话，有些女人可能会有同样的感受？

‘Very well,’ he said, laughing; ‘I am sorry to wound you. I did wrong—I admit it.’ He dropped into some little bitterness as he continued: ‘Only you needn’t be so everlastingly flinging it in my face. I am ready to pay to the uttermost farthing. You know you need not work in the fields or the dairies again. You know you may clothe yourself with the best, instead of in the bald plain way you have lately affected, as if you couldn’t get a ribbon more than you earn.’
“很好，”他笑着说道。 ‘我很抱歉伤害了你。我做错了——我承认。”他继续说道：“只是你不必总是把它扔到我脸上。我已经准备好付出最大的代价了。您知道您不再需要在田地里或奶牛场工作。你知道你可以给自己穿上最好的衣服，而不是像最近那样光秃秃的，就好像你不能得到比你挣的更多的丝带一样。

Her lip lifted slightly, though there was little scorn, as a rule, in her large and impulsive nature.
她的嘴唇微微上扬，尽管她性格大而冲动，但通常不带一丝蔑视。

‘I have said I will not take anything more from you, and I will not—I cannot! I SHOULD be your creature to go on doing that, and I won’t!’
“我说过我不会再从你那里拿走任何东西，我不会——我不能！我应该成为你的创造物，继续这样做，但我不会！

‘One would think you were a princess from your manner, in addition to a true and original d’Urberville—ha! ha! Well, Tess, dear, I can say no more. I suppose I am a bad fellow—a damn bad fellow. I was born bad, and I have lived bad, and I shall die bad in all probability. But, upon my lost soul, I won’t be bad towards you again, Tess. And if certain circumstances should arise—you understand—in which you are in the least need, the least difficulty, send me one line, and you shall have by return whatever you require. I may not be at Trantridge—I am going to London for a time—I can’t stand the old woman. But all letters will be forwarded.’
“从你的举止来看，人们会认为你是一位公主，而且是一个真正的、原创的德伯维尔——哈！哈！好吧，苔丝，亲爱的，我不能再说了。我想我是个坏人——一个该死的坏人。我生来就是坏的，我活得也是坏的，而且很可能我也会死得很坏。但是，以我迷失的灵魂起誓，我不会再对你不好了，苔丝。如果出现某些情况——你明白——在你最不需要、最困难的情况下，给我写一封信，你就会得到你需要的任何东西。我可能不在特兰特里奇——我要去伦敦一段时间——我受不了那个老太婆。但所有信件都会被转发。”

She said that she did not wish him to drive her further, and they stopped just under the clump of trees. D’Urberville alighted, and lifted her down bodily in his arms, afterwards placing her articles on the ground beside her. She bowed to him slightly, her eye just lingering in his; and then she turned to take the parcels for departure.
她说她不想让他开车送她走得更远，他们就在树丛下停了下来。德伯维尔下了车，将她整个人抱在怀里，然后把她的物品放在她旁边的地上。她向他微微鞠了一躬，目光只是停留在他的身上。然后她转身拿着包裹准备离开。

Alec d’Urberville removed his cigar, bent towards her, and said—
亚历克·德伯维尔取下雪茄，弯腰对她说道——

‘You are not going to turn away like that, dear! Come!’
‘亲爱的，你不能就这样转身走开！来！'

‘If you wish,’ she answered indifferently. ‘See how you’ve mastered me!’
“如果你愿意的话。”她漠然地回答。 “看你怎么征服我的！”

She thereupon turned round and lifted her face to his, and remained like a marble term while he imprinted a kiss upon her cheek—half perfunctorily, half as if zest had not yet quite died out. Her eyes vaguely rested upon the remotest trees in the lane while the kiss was given, as though she were nearly unconscious of what he did.
于是她转过身来，抬起头来面对他，当他在她的脸颊上印下一个吻时，她的脸仍然像大理石一样——半是敷衍，半是好像热情还没有完全消失。亲吻时，她的目光模糊地落在巷子里最远的树上，仿佛她几乎没有意识到他做了什么。

‘Now the other side, for old acquaintance’ sake.’
“现在到另一边了，看在老熟人的份上。”

She turned her head in the same passive way, as one might turn at the request of a sketcher or hairdresser, and he kissed the other side, his lips touching cheeks that were damp and smoothly chill as the skin of the mushrooms in the fields around.
她以同样被动的方式转过头，就像一个人可能会应素描师或美发师的要求转过头一样，而他亲吻了另一侧，他的嘴唇触碰着湿润而光滑的脸颊，就像周围田野里蘑菇的皮肤一样。 。

‘You don’t give me your mouth and kiss me back. You never willingly do that—you’ll never love me, I fear.’
‘你不把你的嘴给我并回吻我。你永远不会愿意这样做——我担心你永远不会爱我。

‘I have said so, often. It is true. I have never really and truly loved you, and I think I never can.’ She added mournfully, ‘Perhaps, of all things, a lie on this thing would do the most good to me now; but I have honour enough left, little as ‘tis, not to tell that lie. If I did love you, I may have the best o’ causes for letting you know it. But I don’t.’
“我经常这么说。是真的。我从来没有真正真正地爱过你，我想我永远也不能。”她悲伤地补充道，“也许，在这件事上撒谎对我现在来说是最好的；但我还有足够的荣誉，尽管如此，我不能撒谎。如果我真的爱你，我可能有最好的理由让你知道。但我不这么认为。

He emitted a laboured breath, as if the scene were getting rather oppressive to his heart, or to his conscience, or to his gentility.
他费力地喘了口气，仿佛这一幕对他的心、他的良心、或者他的绅士风度来说变得相当压抑。

‘Well, you are absurdly melancholy, Tess. I have no reason for flattering you now, and I can say plainly that you need not be so sad. You can hold your own for beauty against any woman of these parts, gentle or simple; I say it to you as a practical man and well-wisher. If you are wise you will show it to the world more than you do before it fades... And yet, Tess, will you come back to me! Upon my soul, I don’t like to let you go like this!’
“嗯，苔丝，你真是忧郁得可笑。我现在没有什么理由恭维你，我可以坦白地说，你不用这么伤心。你可以坚持自己的美丽，与任何具有这些特质的女人相比，无论是温柔的还是简单的；我以一个务实的人和好心人的身份对你说这句话。如果你明智的话，你会在它消失之前更多地向世界展示它……然而，苔丝，你会回到我身边吗！我发誓，我不想让你就这样离开！

‘Never, never! I made up my mind as soon as I saw—what I ought to have seen sooner; and I won’t come.’
‘从来没有，从来没有！我一看到就下定决心——我应该早点看到的；我不会来。

‘Then good morning, my four months’ cousin—good-bye!’
“那么早上好，我四个月大的表弟——再见！”

He leapt up lightly, arranged the reins, and was gone between the tall red-berried hedges.
他轻轻地跳了起来，整理好缰绳，然后消失在高大的红浆果树篱之间。

Tess did not look after him, but slowly wound along the crooked lane. It was still early, and though the sun’s lower limb was just free of the hill, his rays, ungenial and peering, addressed the eye rather than the touch as yet. There was not a human soul near. Sad October and her sadder self seemed the only two existences haunting that lane.
苔丝没有看他，而是沿着弯曲的小巷慢慢蜿蜒前行。时间还早，虽然太阳的下半身刚刚离开了山丘，但他的光线，不友善，凝视着，吸引着眼睛，而不是触摸。附近没有一个人类的灵魂。悲伤的十月和她更悲伤的自己似乎是那条小巷中唯一的两个存在。

As she walked, however, some footsteps approached behind her, the footsteps of a man; and owing to the briskness of his advance he was close at her heels and had said ‘Good morning’ before she had been long aware of his propinquity. He appeared to be an artisan of some sort, and carried a tin pot of red paint in his hand. He asked in a business-like manner if he should take her basket, which she permitted him to do, walking beside him.
然而，正当她走着的时候，身后有脚步声靠近，是一个男人的脚步声。由于他的动作很快，他就紧跟在她的后面，在她早就意识到他的接近之前，他就说了声“早上好”。他看起来像是一位工匠，手里拿着一罐红色油漆。他以一种公事公办的方式询问他是否应该拿走她的篮子，她允许他这样做，并走在他身边。

‘It is early to be astir this Sabbath morn!’ he said cheerfully.
“这个安息日早上起床还早！”他高兴地说。

‘Yes,’ said Tess.
“是的，”苔丝说。

‘When most people are at rest from their week’s work.’
“当大多数人从一周的工作中得到休息时。”

She also assented to this.
对此，她也表示同意。

‘Though I do more real work to-day than all the week besides.’
“尽管我今天做的实际工作比整周都多。”

‘Do you?’
'你？'

‘All the week I work for the glory of man, and on Sunday for the glory of God. That’s more real than the other—hey? I have a little to do here at this stile.’ The man turned, as he spoke, to an opening at the roadside leading into a pasture. ‘If you’ll wait a moment,’ he added, ‘I shall not be long.’
“我整个星期都为了人类的荣耀而工作，周日则为了上帝的荣耀而工作。这比另一个更真实——嘿？我在这个栅栏有一点事要做。”说话的时候，那人转身走向路边通向牧场的一个空地。 “如果你能等一下，”他补充道，“我不会等太久的。”

As he had her basket she could not well do otherwise; and she waited, observing him. He set down her basket and the tin pot, and stirring the paint with the brush that was in it began painting large square letters on the middle board of the three composing the stile, placing a comma after each word, as if to give pause while that word was driven well home to the reader’s heart—
既然他手里有她的篮子，她就别无选择。她等待着，观察着他。他放下她的篮子和锡罐，用里面的画笔搅动油漆，开始在组成栅栏的三个中间板上画大的方形字母，在每个单词后面放一个逗号，仿佛要停顿一下。这句话深深地印在了读者的心里——

THY, DAMNATION, SLUMBERETH, NOT.
你的，该死的，不睡觉。

2 Pet. ii. 3.
2 宠物。二. 3.

Against the peaceful landscape, the pale, decaying tints of the copses, the blue air of the horizon, and the lichened stile-boards, these staring vermilion words shone forth. They seemed to shout themselves out and make the atmosphere ring. Some people might have cried ‘Alas, poor Theology!’ at the hideous defacement—the last grotesque phase of a creed which had served mankind well in its time. But the words entered Tess with accusatory horror. It was as if this man had known her recent history; yet he was a total stranger.
在宁静的风景、苍白、腐烂的树林、地平线的蓝色空气和长满青苔的门框的映衬下，这些凝视的朱红色文字闪闪发光。他们似乎在大声喊叫，让气氛响起。有些人可能会对这种可怕的污损大喊“唉，可怜的神学！”——这是当时对人类大有裨益的信条最后的怪诞阶段。但苔丝听到这句话时，心里充满了指责的恐惧。就好像这个男人知道她最近的经历一样；但他完全是个陌生人。

Having finished his text he picked up her basket, and she mechanically resumed her walk beside him.
发完短信后，他拿起她的篮子，她机械地继续在他身边行走。

‘Do you believe what you paint?’ she asked in low tones.
“你相信你画的东西吗？”她低声问道。

‘Believe that tex? Do I believe in my own existence!’
‘相信那个特克斯吗？我相信自己的存在吗？

‘But,’ said she tremulously, ‘suppose your sin was not of your own seeking?’
“但是，”她颤抖着说道，“如果你的罪不是你自己造成的呢？”

He shook his head.
他摇摇头。

‘I cannot split hairs on that burning query,’ he said. ‘I have walked hundreds of miles this past summer, painting these texes on every wall, gate, and stile the length and breadth of this district. I leave their application to the hearts of the people who read ‘em.’
他说：“对于这个紧迫的问题，我无法挑剔。” “去年夏天我走了数百英里，在这个地区的每一面墙壁、大门和栅栏上都画了这些文字。我把它们的应用留给那些读过它们的人。

‘I think they are horrible,’ said Tess. ‘Crushing! Killing!’
“我认为他们太可怕了，”苔丝说。 ‘粉碎！杀人！’

‘That’s what they are meant to be!’ he replied in a trade voice. ‘But you should read my hottest ones—them I kips for slums and seaports. They’d make ye wriggle! Not but what this is a very good tex for rural districts. ... Ah—there’s a nice bit of blank wall up by that barn standing to waste. I must put one there—one that it will be good for dangerous young females like yerself to heed. Will ye wait, missy?’
“这就是它们的本来面目！”他用专业的声音回答道。 “但你应该读一下我最热门的那些——我把它们放在贫民窟和海港上。他们会让你蠕动！不是，而是这对于农村地区来说是一个非常好的文本。 ……啊——那个谷仓旁边有一大块空白的墙闲置着。我必须在那里放一个——一个对于像你这样危险的年轻女性来说会有好处的。你会等吗，小姐？

‘No,’ said she; and taking her basket Tess trudged on. A little way forward she turned her head. The old gray wall began to advertise a similar fiery lettering to the first, with a strange and unwonted mien, as if distressed at duties it had never before been called upon to perform. It was with a sudden flush that she read and realized what was to be the inscription he was now halfway through—
“不，”她说。苔丝提着篮子艰难地前行。向前走了一小段，她转过头。古老的灰色墙壁上开始出现与第一面类似的火热字体，带着一种奇怪而不寻常的神态，仿佛对它以前从未被要求执行的职责感到苦恼。当她读到一半时，她突然脸红了，意识到他现在读到一半的铭文是什么——

THOU, SHALT, NOT, COMMIT—
你不应该承诺——

Her cheerful friend saw her looking, stopped his brush, and shouted—
她兴高采烈的朋友看到​​她在看，停下了画笔，喊道——

‘If you want to ask for edification on these things of moment, there’s a very earnest good man going to preach a charity-sermon to-day in the parish you are going to—Mr Clare of Emminster. I’m not of his persuasion now, but he’s a good man, and he’ll expound as well as any parson I know. ‘Twas he began the work in me.’
“如果你想寻求对这些当下事情的启发，今天有一位非常热心的好人将在你要去的教区进行慈善布道——埃明斯特的克莱尔先生。我现在不同意他的观点，但他是个好人，他会像我认识的任何牧师一样阐述得很好。 “正是他在我身上开始了工作。”

But Tess did not answer; she throbbingly resumed her walk, her eyes fixed on the ground. ‘Pooh—I don’t believe God said such things!’ she murmured contemptuously when her flush had died away.
但苔丝没有回答。她颤抖着继续行走，眼睛盯着地面。 “呸——我不相信上帝会说这样的话！”当她的脸红消失后，她轻蔑地低声说道。

A plume of smoke soared up suddenly from her father’s chimney, the sight of which made her heart ache. The aspect of the interior, when she reached it, made her heart ache more. Her mother, who had just come down stairs, turned to greet her from the fireplace, where she was kindling barked-oak twigs under the breakfast kettle. The young children were still above, as was also her father, it being Sunday morning, when he felt justified in lying an additional half-hour.
父亲的烟囱里突然冒出一缕青烟，看着她心都痛了。当她到达里面时，里面的景象让她的心更加疼痛。她的母亲刚刚下楼，转身在壁炉旁迎接她，她正在早餐水壶下点燃树皮橡树枝。年幼的孩子们还在上面，她的父亲也在上面，那是周日早上，他觉得多躺半个小时是合理的。

‘Well!—my dear Tess!’ exclaimed her surprised mother, jumping up and kissing the girl. ‘How be ye? I didn’t see you till you was in upon me! Have you come home to be married?’
“好吧！——我亲爱的苔丝！”她惊讶的母亲惊呼道，跳起来亲吻了女孩。 ‘你怎么样？直到你出现在我面前我才看到你！你回家结婚了吗？

‘No, I have not come for that, mother.’
“不，我不是为了这个而来的，妈妈。”

‘Then for a holiday?’
“那么去度假吗？”

‘Yes—for a holiday; for a long holiday,’ said Tess.
“是的——去度假； “放个长假吧。”苔丝说。

‘What, isn’t your cousin going to do the handsome thing?’
“怎么，你表弟不打算做一件帅气的事吗？”

‘He’s not my cousin, and he’s not going to marry me.’
“他不是我的表弟，他不会嫁给我。”

Her mother eyed her narrowly.
她母亲眯起眼睛看着她。

‘Come, you have not told me all,’ she said.
“得了吧，你还没有告诉我一切，”她说。

Then Tess went up to her mother, put her face upon Joan’s neck, and told.
然后苔丝走到她母亲面前，把脸靠在琼的脖子上，告诉了她。

‘And yet th’st not got him to marry ‘ee!’ reiterated her mother. ‘Any woman would have done it but you, after that!’
“但这并没有让他结婚！”她母亲重申道。 “从那以后，除了你之外，任何女人都会这么做！”

‘Perhaps any woman would except me.’
“也许除了我之外，任何女人都会这么做。”

‘It would have been something like a story to come back with, if you had!’ continued Mrs Durbeyfield, ready to burst into tears of vexation. ‘After all the talk about you and him which has reached us here, who would have expected it to end like this! Why didn’t ye think of doing some good for your family instead o’ thinking only of yourself? See how I’ve got to teave and slave, and your poor weak father with his heart clogged like a dripping-pan. I did hope for something to come out o’ this! To see what a pretty pair you and he made that day when you drove away together four months ago! See what he has given us—all, as we thought, because we were his kin. But if he’s not, it must have been done because of his love for ‘ee. And yet you’ve not got him to marry!’
“如果你有的话，这会是一个可以带回来的故事！”德北菲尔德夫人继续说道，她快要气得哭起来了。 ‘你和他的事都传到我们这儿来了，谁能想到会是这样的结局！为什么你不考虑为家人做点好事，而只考虑自己呢？看看我是如何耕种和奴役的，而你可怜的、虚弱的父亲，他的心像滴水的锅一样堵塞了。我确实希望能有一些成果！看看四个月前你们一起开车离开的那一天，你和他是多么漂亮的一对啊！看看他给了我们什么——一切，正如我们所想的，因为我们是他的亲属。但如果他不是，那一定是因为他对“ee”的爱。但你还没有让他结婚！

Get Alec d’Urberville in the mind to marry her! He marry HER! On matrimony he had never once said a word. And what if he had? How a convulsive snatching at social salvation might have impelled her to answer him she could not say. But her poor foolish mother little knew her present feeling towards this man. Perhaps it was unusual in the circumstances, unlucky, unaccountable; but there it was; and this, as she had said, was what made her detest herself. She had never wholly cared for him; she did not at all care for him now. She had dreaded him, winced before him, succumbed to adroit advantages he took of her helplessness; then, temporarily blinded by his ardent manners, had been stirred to confused surrender awhile: had suddenly despised and disliked him, and had run away. That was all. Hate him she did not quite; but he was dust and ashes to her, and even for her name’s sake she scarcely wished to marry him.
让亚历克·德伯维尔考虑娶她！他娶了她！关于婚姻，他从来没有说过一句话。如果他有呢？她说不上来，她对社会拯救的强烈渴望是如何促使她回答他的。但她可怜又愚蠢的母亲却不知道她现在对这个男人的感情。也许这在当时的情况下是不寻常的、不幸的、不负责任的。但它就在那里；正如她所说，这就是她厌恶自己的原因。她从来没有完全关心过他。她现在一点也不关心他了。她害怕他，在他面前退缩，屈服于他巧妙地利用她的无助。然后，他的热情态度暂时蒙蔽了他的双眼，让他迷惑不解地投降了：突然鄙视他、不喜欢他，然后逃跑了。就这些。她并不十分恨他；但他对她来说只是尘土和灰烬，甚至为了她的名字，她也不愿意嫁给他。

‘You ought to have been more careful if you didn’t mean to get him to make you his wife!’
“如果你不是故意让他娶你为妻的话，你应该更加小心！”

‘O mother, my mother!’ cried the agonized girl, turning passionately upon her parent as if her poor heart would break. ‘How could I be expected to know? I was a child when I left this house four months ago. Why didn’t you tell me there was danger in men-folk? Why didn’t you warn me? Ladies know what to fend hands against, because they read novels that tell them of these tricks; but I never had the chance o’ learning in that way, and you did not help me!’
“哦，妈妈，我的妈妈！”痛苦的女孩大声喊道，她热情地转向她的父母，仿佛她可怜的心要碎了。 ‘我怎么能知道呢？四个月前我离开这个家时，我还是个孩子。你为什么不告诉我男人有危险？你为什么不警告我？女士们知道该抵挡什么，因为她们读的小说告诉她们这些技巧。但我从来没有机会以这种方式学习，而且你也没有帮助我！”

Her mother was subdued.
她的母亲被制服了。

‘I thought if I spoke of his fond feelings and what they might lead to, you would be hontish wi’ him and lose your chance,’ she murmured, wiping her eyes with her apron. ‘Well, we must make the best of it, I suppose. ‘Tis nater, after all, and what do please God!’
“我想，如果我说出他的好感以及它们可能会导致什么，你就会对他忠诚并失去机会，”她低声说道，用围裙擦着眼睛。 “好吧，我想我们必须充分利用它。 “这毕竟是自然之事，上帝会喜悦什么！”

XIII
十三

The event of Tess Durbeyfield’s return from the manor of her bogus kinsfolk was rumoured abroad, if rumour be not too large a word for a space of a square mile. In the afternoon several young girls of Marlott, former schoolfellows and acquaintances of Tess, called to see her, arriving dressed in their best starched and ironed, as became visitors to a person who had made a transcendent conquest (as they supposed), and sat round the room looking at her with great curiosity. For the fact that it was this said thirty-first cousin, Mr d’Urberville, who had fallen in love with her, a gentleman not altogether local, whose reputation as a reckless gallant and heartbreaker was beginning to spread beyond the immediate boundaries of Trantridge, lent Tess’s supposed position, by its fearsomeness, a far higher fascination that it would have exercised if unhazardous.
苔丝·德北菲尔德从她的假亲戚的庄园回来的事件在国外广为流传，如果谣言对于方圆一英里的空间来说不是太大的话。下午，马洛特的几个年轻女孩，苔丝以前的同学和熟人，打电话来看望她，她们穿着她们最好的衣服，浆洗过，熨烫过，就像拜访了一个取得了超然征服的人（正如她们所认为的那样），然后坐下来。房间里的人都好奇地看着她。事实上，正是这位三十表弟德伯维尔先生爱上了她，一位不完全是本地人的绅士，他作为一个鲁莽的英勇和令人心碎的名声开始传播到特兰特里奇的直接边界之外苔丝的假定地位，由于其可怕性，赋予了它在没有危险的情况下所表现出的更高的魅力。

Their interest was so deep that the younger ones whispered when her back was turned—
他们的兴趣如此之深，以至于当她转过身去时，年轻的孩子们低声说道——

‘How pretty she is; and how that best frock do set her off! I believe it cost an immense deal, and that it was a gift from him.’
‘她多么漂亮啊！那件最好的连衣裙让她多么着迷啊！我相信这花费了巨大的代价，而且这是他的礼物。”

Tess, who was reaching up to get the tea-things from the corner-cupboard, did not hear these commentaries. If she had heard them, she might soon have set her friends right on the matter. But her mother heard, and Joan’s simple vanity, having been denied the hope of a dashing marriage, fed itself as well as it could upon the sensation of a dashing flirtation. Upon the whole she felt gratified, even though such a limited and evanescent triumph should involve her daughter’s reputation; it might end in marriage yet, and in the warmth of her responsiveness to their admiration she invited her visitors to stay to tea.
苔丝正伸手去拿角落柜子里的茶具，没有听到这些评论。如果她听到了他们的话，她可能很快就会纠正她的朋友们的说法。但她的母亲听到了，琼单纯的虚荣心被剥夺了美好婚姻的希望，在一次潇洒的调情中得到了最大的满足。总的来说，她感到很欣慰，尽管这种有限且转瞬即逝的胜利会涉及到她女儿的声誉；也许最终会以婚姻告终，而她对他们的钦佩做出了热情的回应，她邀请客人留下来喝茶。

Their chatter, their laughter, their good-humoured innuendoes, above all, their flashes and flickerings of envy, revived Tess’s spirits also; and, as the evening wore on, she caught the infection of their excitement, and grew almost gay. The marble hardness left her face, she moved with something of her old bounding step, and flushed in all her young beauty.
他们的闲聊、笑声、幽默的暗示，尤其是他们闪烁的嫉妒之情，也让苔丝精神焕发。随着夜幕降临，她也感染了他们的兴奋，变得几乎快活起来。她的脸上不再有大理石般的坚硬，她迈着古老的跳跃步伐，年轻的美丽让她脸红了。

At moments, in spite of thought, she would reply to their inquiries with a manner of superiority, as if recognizing that her experiences in the field of courtship had, indeed, been slightly enviable. But so far was she from being, in the words of Robert South, ‘in love with her own ruin,’ that the illusion was transient as lightning; cold reason came back to mock her spasmodic weakness; the ghastliness of her momentary pride would convict her, and recall her to reserved listlessness again.
有时，她会不顾思考地回答他们的询问，表现出一种优越感，仿佛认识到自己在求爱方面的经历确实有点令人羡慕。但用罗伯特·索思的话说，她远非“爱上自己的毁灭”，这种幻觉像闪电一样转瞬即逝。冰冷的理智回来嘲笑她痉挛性的虚弱。她一时的骄傲所带来的可怕的感觉会让她感到内疚，并让她再次陷入保留的无精打采之中。

And the despondency of the next morning’s dawn, when it was no longer Sunday, but Monday; and no best clothes; and the laughing visitors were gone, and she awoke alone in her old bed, the innocent younger children breathing softly around her. In place of the excitement of her return, and the interest it had inspired, she saw before her a long and stony highway which she had to tread, without aid, and with little sympathy. Her depression was then terrible, and she could have hidden herself in a tomb.
还有第二天黎明时的沮丧，那时不再是周日，而是周一；也没有最好的衣服；那些欢笑的访客都消失了，她独自一人在旧床上醒来，天真的小孩子们在她身边轻轻地呼吸着。她不再为归来而兴奋，也不再激发兴趣，而是看到了面前的一条漫长而石质的公路，她必须在没有援助、也没有多少同情的情况下走在这条公路上。当时她的抑郁症非常严重，她简直可以把自己藏进坟墓里。

In the course of a few weeks Tess revived sufficiently to show herself so far as was necessary to get to church one Sunday morning. She liked to hear the chanting—such as it was—and the old Psalms, and to join in the Morning Hymn. That innate love of melody, which she had inherited from her ballad-singing mother, gave the simplest music a power over her which could well-nigh drag her heart out of her bosom at times.
几周后，苔丝恢复了足够的精神，足以在周日早上去教堂。她喜欢听吟诵——就像它本来的样子——和古老的诗篇，并加入晨祷。她从歌谣母亲那里继承了对旋律与生俱来的热爱，赋予了她最简单的音乐力量，有时几乎可以把她的心从怀里拉出来。

To be as much out of observation as possible for reasons of her own, and to escape the gallantries of the young men, she set out before the chiming began, and took a back seat under the gallery, close to the lumber, where only old men and women came, and where the bier stood on end among the churchyard tools.
为了尽可能不被人注意，也为了躲避年轻人的殷勤，她在钟声开始前就出发了，在画廊下面靠近木材的地方坐了一个后座，那里只有老旧的木材。男人和女人都来了，棺材竖立在教堂墓地的工具中间。

Parishioners dropped in by twos and threes, deposited themselves in rows before her, rested three-quarters of a minute on their foreheads as if they were praying, though they were not; then sat up, and looked around. When the chants came on, one of her favourites happened to be chosen among the rest—the old double chant ‘Langdon’—but she did not know what it was called, though she would much have liked to know. She thought, without exactly wording the thought, how strange and god-like was a composer’s power, who from the grave could lead through sequences of emotion, which he alone had felt at first, a girl like her who had never heard of his name, and never would have a clue to his personality.
教区居民三三两两地来到她面前，在她面前排成一排，在额头上休息了四分之三分钟，仿佛在祈祷，尽管他们并没有这样做。然后坐起来，环顾四周。当圣歌响起时，她最喜欢的一首歌曲恰好从其余歌曲中被选中——古老的双圣歌“兰登”——但她不知道它叫什么，尽管她很想知道。她想，虽然没有确切地表达这个想法，作曲家的力量是多么奇怪和神圣，他从坟墓里就能引导出一系列的情感，只有他一个人第一次感受到这种感觉，像她这样一个从未听说过他名字的女孩，永远不会知道他的个性。

The people who had turned their heads turned them again as the service proceeded; and at last observing her, they whispered to each other. She knew what their whispers were about, grew sick at heart, and felt that she could come to church no more.
随着仪式的进行，原本转过头的人们又转过头来。最后他们观察到了她，互相窃窃私语。她知道他们的窃窃私语是怎么回事，心里感到恶心，觉得自己不能再去教堂了。

The bedroom which she shared with some of the children formed her retreat more continually than ever. Here, under her few square yards of thatch, she watched winds, and snows, and rains, gorgeous sunsets, and successive moons at their full. So close kept she that at length almost everybody thought she had gone away.
她与一些孩子共用的卧室比以往任何时候都更加频繁地成为她的隐居处。在这里，在她那几平方码的茅草下，她看着风、雪、雨、绚丽的日落和连续的满月。她离她如此之近，以至于最后几乎每个人都认为她已经离开了。

The only exercise that Tess took at this time was after dark; and it was then, when out in the woods, that she seemed least solitary. She knew how to hit to a hair’s-breadth that moment of evening when the light and the darkness are so evenly balanced that the constraint of day and the suspense of night neutralize each other, leaving absolute mental liberty. It is then that the plight of being alive becomes attenuated to its least possible dimensions. She had no fear of the shadows; her sole idea seemed to be to shun mankind—or rather that cold accretion called the world, which, so terrible in the mass, is so unformidable, even pitiable, in its units.
苔丝此时唯一进行的锻炼是在天黑之后。正是在那个时候，当她在树林里时，她显得最不孤独。她知道如何在夜晚的那一刻达到毫厘之差，此时光明与黑暗是如此平衡，白天的束缚和夜晚的悬念相互抵消，留下绝对的精神自由。就在那时，活着的困境被削弱到了最小的可能程度。她不惧怕阴影；她唯一的想法似乎就是回避人类——或者更确切地说，回避那个被称为世界的冰冷的堆积物，这个世界在整体上如此可怕，在其单位中却如此不可畏惧，甚至可怜。

On these lonely hills and dales her quiescent glide was of a piece with the element she moved in. Her flexuous and stealthy figure became an integral part of the scene. At times her whimsical fancy would intensify natural processes around her till they seemed a part of her own story. Rather they became a part of it; for the world is only a psychological phenomenon, and what they seemed they were. The midnight airs and gusts, moaning amongst the tightly-wrapped buds and bark of the winter twigs, were formulae of bitter reproach. A wet day was the expression of irremediable grief at her weakness in the mind of some vague ethical being whom she could not class definitely as the God of her childhood, and could not comprehend as any other.
在这些孤独的山丘和山谷中，她静止的滑翔与她所身处的环境融为一体。她弯曲而隐秘的身材成为场景中不可或缺的一部分。有时，她异想天开的幻想会强化她周围的自然过程，直到它们似乎成为她自己故事的一部分。相反，他们成为了其中的一部分；因为世界只是一种心理现象，以及它们看起来的样子。午夜的风和阵风，在冬天树枝紧紧包裹的花蕾和树皮中呻吟，是苦涩的谴责的公式。潮湿的一天表达了她对某种模糊道德存在的软弱的无可挽回的悲伤，她无法将这个存在明确地归类为她童年的上帝，也无法像其他上帝一样理解它。

But this encompassment of her own characterization, based on shreds of convention, peopled by phantoms and voices antipathetic to her, was a sorry and mistaken creation of Tess’s fancy—a cloud of moral hobgoblins by which she was terrified without reason. It was they that were out of harmony with the actual world, not she. Walking among the sleeping birds in the hedges, watching the skipping rabbits on a moonlit warren, or standing under a pheasant-laden bough, she looked upon herself as a figure of Guilt intruding into the haunts of Innocence. But all the while she was making a distinction where there was no difference. Feeling herself in antagonism, she was quite in accord. She had been made to break an accepted social law, but no law known to the environment in which she fancied herself such an anomaly.
但这种对她自己的人物塑造的包容，基于陈规的碎片，充满了对她反感的幻影和声音，是苔丝的幻想的一个令人遗憾和错误的创造——一群道德妖怪，她无缘无故地害怕。与现实世界不和谐的是他们，而不是她。漫步在树篱中熟睡的鸟儿中间，看着月光下的窝里跳跃的兔子，或者站在挂满野鸡的树枝下，她把自己视为一个侵入纯真出没的罪恶的人物。但她一直在区分那些没有区别的地方。她感觉自己处于敌对状态，但又很和谐。她被迫违反了公认的社会法则，但在她认为自己如此异常的环境中，并没有任何法则。

XIV
十四

It was a hazy sunrise in August. The denser nocturnal vapours, attacked by the warm beams, were dividing and shrinking into isolated fleeces within hollows and coverts, where they waited till they should be dried away to nothing.
那是八月的一个朦胧的日出。夜间更浓的水蒸气在温暖的光束的攻击下，在空洞和隐蔽处分裂并收缩成孤立的羊毛，在那里等待着它们被干燥得一无所有。

The sun, on account of the mist, had a curious sentient, personal look, demanding the masculine pronoun for its adequate expression. His present aspect, coupled with the lack of all human forms in the scene, explained the old-time heliolatries in a moment. One could feel that a saner religion had never prevailed under the sky. The luminary was a golden-haired, beaming, mild-eyed, God-like creature, gazing down in the vigour and intentness of youth upon an earth that was brimming with interest for him.
由于雾气，太阳有一种奇怪的、有感情的、个性化的外观，需要男性代词才能充分表达。他现在的样子，再加上场景中缺乏所有的人类形态，立刻就解释了古代的日光崇拜。人们可以感觉到，天底下从来没有一种更理智的宗教盛行过。那个发光体是一个金发碧眼、目光温和、神一般的生物，他以青春的活力和专注凝视着这片对他充满兴趣的大地。

His light, a little later, broke though chinks of cottage shutters, throwing stripes like red-hot pokers upon cupboards, chests of drawers, and other furniture within; and awakening harvesters who were not already astir.
过了一会儿，他的光射破了小屋百叶窗的缝隙，在橱柜、抽屉柜和里面的其他家具上留下了像烧红的拨火棍一样的条纹；以及唤醒尚未苏醒的收割者。

But of all ruddy things that morning the brightest were two broad arms of painted wood, which rose from the margin of yellow cornfield hard by Marlott village. They, with two others below, formed the revolving Maltese cross of the reaping-machine, which had been brought to the field on the previous evening to be ready for operations this day. The paint with which they were smeared, intensified in hue by the sunlight, imparted to them a look of having been dipped in liquid fire.
但那天早晨，在所有红润的东西中，最亮的是两条宽阔的彩绘木臂，它们从马洛特村附近的黄色玉米地边缘升起。他们和下面的另外两个人组成了收割机的旋转马耳他十字形，该收割机已于前一天晚上运到田间，准备今天的作业。它们所涂的油漆在阳光的照射下颜色变得更加强烈，使它们看起来就像是浸在液体火中一样。

The field had already been ‘opened”; that is to say, a lane a few feet wide had been hand-cut through the wheat along the whole circumference of the field for the first passage of the horses and machine.
这个领域已经“开放”了；也就是说，沿着田地的整个圆周，在小麦中手工开辟了一条几英尺宽的小巷，以便马匹和机器首先通过。

Two groups, one of men and lads, the other of women, had come down the lane just at the hour when the shadows of the eastern hedge-top struck the west hedge midway, so that the heads of the groups were enjoying sunrise while their feet were still in the dawn. They disappeared from the lane between the two stone posts which flanked the nearest field-gate.
两群人，一男一童，一男一女，正好在东树篱顶的影子投到西树篱中途的时候，沿着小巷走来，这样，两群人的头都在享受日出，而他们的脚还在黎明。他们从最近的大门两侧的两根石柱之间的小巷消失了。

Presently there arose from within a ticking like the love-making of the grasshopper. The machine had begun, and a moving concatenation of three horses and the aforesaid long rickety machine was visible over the gate, a driver sitting upon one of the hauling horses, and an attendant on the seat of the implement. Along one side of the field the whole wain went, the arms of the mechanical reaper revolving slowly, till it passed down the hill quite out of sight. In a minute it came up on the other side of the field at the same equable pace; the glistening brass star in the forehead of the fore horse first catching the eye as it rose into view over the stubble, then the bright arms, and then the whole machine.
不一会儿，里面就响起了蚱蜢做爱般的滴答声。机器已经启动了，在大门上方可以看到三匹马和前面提到的摇摇晃晃的长机器的一连串移动，一名司机坐在一匹牵引马上，一名服务员坐在机具的座位上。整辆马车沿着田野的一侧行驶，机械收割机的手臂缓慢旋转，直到它驶下山坡，消失在视线之外。过了一会儿，它就以同样均匀的速度出现在场地的另一边。当前马的前额上闪闪发光的黄铜星星首先映入眼帘，然后是明亮的手臂，然后是整个机器。

The narrow lane of stubble encompassing the field grew wider with each circuit, and the standing corn was reduced to a smaller area as the morning wore on. Rabbits, hares, snakes, rats, mice, retreated inwards as into a fastness, unaware of the ephemeral nature of their refuge, and of the doom that awaited them later in the day when, their covert shrinking to a more and more horrible narrowness, they were huddled together, friends and foes, till the last few yards of upright wheat fell also under the teeth of the unerring reaper, and they were every one put to death by the sticks and stones of the harvesters.
每绕一圈，田野周围的窄茬就变得越来越宽，随着早晨的流逝，未收割的玉米面积也缩小了。兔子、野兔、蛇、大鼠、小鼠，都向内撤退，仿佛进入了一个堡垒，没有意识到他们的避难所是短暂的，也没有意识到当天晚些时候等待着他们的厄运，他们的隐蔽处缩小到越来越可怕的狭窄，他们是朋友也是敌人，挤在一起，直到最后几码直立的麦子也落在了无误的收割者的牙齿之下，他们一个个都被收割机的棍棒和石头杀死了。

The reaping-machine left the fallen corn behind it in little heaps, each heap being of the quantity for a sheaf; and upon these the active binders in the rear laid their hands—mainly women, but some of them men in print shirts, and trousers supported round their waists by leather straps, rendering useless the two buttons behind, which twinkled and bristled with sunbeams at every movement of each wearer, as if they were a pair of eyes in the small of his back.
收割机把掉落的玉米分成小堆，每堆的数量相当于一捆。后面的活页夹将手放在这些东西上——主要是女人，但也有一些穿着印花衬衫和裤子的男人，用皮带系在腰上，使后面的两颗纽扣变得毫无用处，每一颗纽扣都在阳光下闪烁和竖起。每个佩戴者的一举一动，都仿佛是他后背上的一双眼睛。

But those of the other sex were the most interesting of this company of binders, by reason of the charm which is acquired by woman when she becomes part and parcel of outdoor nature, and is not merely an object set down therein as at ordinary times. A field-man is a personality afield; a field-woman is a portion of the field; she had somehow lost her own margin, imbibed the essence of her surrounding, and assimilated herself with it.
但异性的那些活页夹是这群活页夹中最有趣的，因为当女人成为户外自然的重要组成部分时，她就获得了魅力，而不仅仅是像平时那样放置在其中的物体。外勤人员是指在外地工作的人。田野妇女是田野的一部分；她不知何故失去了自己的边缘，吸收了周围环境的精华，并将自己同化了。

The women—or rather girls, for they were mostly young—wore drawn cotton bonnets with great flapping curtains to keep off the sun, and gloves to prevent their hands being wounded by the stubble. There was one wearing a pale pink jacket, another in a cream-coloured tight-sleeved gown, another in a petticoat as red as the arms of the reaping-machine; and others, older, in the brown-rough ‘wropper’ or over-all—the old-established and most appropriate dress of the field-woman, which the young ones were abandoning. This morning the eye returns involuntarily to the girl in the pink cotton jacket, she being the most flexuous and finely-drawn figure of them all. But her bonnet is pulled so far over her brow that none of her face is disclosed while she binds, though her complexion may be guessed from a stray twine or two of dark brown hair which extends below the curtain of her bonnet. Perhaps one reason why she seduces casual attention is that she never courts it, though the other women often gaze around them.
妇女们——或者更确切地说是女孩，因为她们大多很年轻——戴着拉长的棉质帽子，上面有飘动的大窗帘来遮挡阳光，还戴着手套，以防双手被胡茬弄伤。其中一个穿着淡粉色夹克，另一个穿着米色紧身袖长袍，还有一个穿着像收割机手臂一样红的衬裙；还有一些年龄较大的人，穿着棕色粗糙的“外套”或工作服——这是一种老式的、最适合田野妇女的服装，但年轻人正在放弃这种服装。今天早上，人们的目光不由自主地回到了那个穿着粉红色棉袄的女孩身上，她是所有人物中最柔美、最精致的一个。但她的帽子被拉得很远，盖住了她的额头，所以在她绑的时候，她的脸都没有露出来，尽管她的肤色可以从延伸到帽子帘子下面的一两根深棕色头发猜出来。也许她之所以能引起不经意的关注，原因之一就是她从不求爱，尽管其他女人经常注视着她们。

Her binding proceeds with clock-like monotony. From the sheaf last finished she draws a handful of ears, patting their tips with her left palm to bring them even. Then, stooping low, she moves forward, gathering the corn with both hands against her knees, and pushing her left gloved hand under the bundle to meet the right on the other side, holding the corn in an embrace like that of a lover. She brings the ends of the bond together, and kneels on the sheaf while she ties it, beating back her skirts now and then when lifted by the breeze. A bit of her naked arm is visible between the buff leather of the gauntlet and the sleeve of her gown; and as the day wears on its feminine smoothness becomes scarified by the stubble and bleeds.
她的装订过程像时钟一样单调。她从最后完成的捆中取出一把耳朵，用左手掌拍打耳朵的尖端，使它们均匀。然后，她弯下腰，向前走，双手将玉米收拢在膝盖上，然后将戴着手套的左手推到包裹下面，与另一侧的右手相会，像情人一样将玉米抱在怀里。她把绳子的两端连在一起，在系绳子时跪在捆上，时不时地在微风吹起时拍打裙子。在手套的浅黄色皮革和长袍的袖子之间可以看到她裸露的手臂的一小部分；随着时间的流逝，它女性般的光滑感也因胡茬和流血而变得伤痕累累。

At intervals she stands up to rest, and to retie her disarranged apron, or to pull her bonnet straight. Then one can see the oval face of a handsome young woman with deep dark eyes and long heavy clinging tresses, which seem to clasp in a beseeching way anything they fall against. The cheeks are paler, the teeth more regular, the red lips thinner than is usual in a country-bred girl.
她时不时地站起来休息，重新系好凌乱的围裙，或者拉直帽子。然后，人们可以看到一位英俊的年轻女子的鹅蛋脸，她有着深邃的黑眼睛和长长的浓密的头发，似乎以恳求的方式紧紧抓住任何碰到的东西。与乡村女孩相比，她的脸颊更苍白，牙齿更整齐，红唇更薄。

It is Tess Durbeyfield, otherwise d’Urberville, somewhat changed—the same, but not the same; at the present stage of her existence living as a stranger and an alien here, though it was no strange land that she was in. After a long seclusion she had come to a resolve to undertake outdoor work in her native village, the busiest season of the year in the agricultural world having arrived, and nothing that she could do within the house being so remunerative for the time as harvesting in the fields.
这是苔丝·德北菲尔德，或者是德伯维尔，有所改变——相同，但又不一样；尽管她身处的地方并不陌生，但现阶段她还是以陌生人和外星人的身份生活在这里。经过长期的隐居之后，她决定在家乡进行户外工作，这是一年中最繁忙的季节。农业的一年已经到来，对于她来说，在家里做的事情没有什么比在田里收割更有价值的了。

The movements of the other women were more or less similar to Tess’s, the whole bevy of them drawing together like dancers in a quadrille at the completion of a sheaf by each, every one placing her sheaf on end against those of the rest, till a shock, or ‘stitch’ as it was here called, of ten or a dozen was formed.
其他女人的动作或多或少与苔丝的相似，她们一大群人聚集在一起，就像四行舞中的舞者，每个人完成一捆，每个人都将她的捆与其他人的捆放在一起，直到十个或十几个震动，或者这里所说的“缝合”形成了。

They went to breakfast, and came again, and the work proceeded as before. As the hour of eleven drew near a person watching her might have noticed that every now and then Tess’s glance flitted wistfully to the brow of the hill, though she did not pause in her sheafing. On the verge of the hour the heads of a group of children, of ages ranging from six to fourteen, rose over the stubbly convexity of the hill.
他们去吃早餐，然后又回来了，工作照常进行。随着十一点钟的临近，一个注视着她的人可能会注意到，苔丝的目光时不时地若有所思地扫向山顶，尽管她并没有停下割草的动作。时间快到了，一群年龄从六岁到十四岁不等的孩子们的头从山上的胡茬凸出的地方升起。

The face of Tess flushed slightly, but still she did not pause.
苔丝的脸微微泛红，但她仍然没有停下来。

The eldest of the comers, a girl who wore a triangular shawl, its corner draggling on the stubble, carried in her arms what at first sight seemed to be a doll, but proved to be an infant in long clothes. Another brought some lunch. The harvesters ceased working, took their provisions, and sat down against one of the shocks. Here they fell to, the men plying a stone jar freely, and passing round a cup.
其中年纪最大的是一个女孩，披着一条三角形的披肩，披肩的一角拖在胡茬上，怀里抱着一个乍一看像是洋娃娃的东西，但事实证明是一个穿着长衣服的婴儿。另一个人带来了一些午餐。收割者停止了工作，拿起他们的食物，坐下来抵御其中的冲击。他们倒在了这里，人们自由地摆弄着一个石罐，传递着一个杯子。

Tess Durbeyfield had been one of the last to suspend her labours. She sat down at the end of the shock, her face turned somewhat away from her companions. When she had deposited herself a man in a rabbit-skin cap, and with a red handkerchief tucked into his belt, held the cup of ale over the top of the shock for her to drink. But she did not accept his offer. As soon as her lunch was spread she called up the big girl, her sister, and took the baby of her, who, glad to be relieved of the burden, went away to the next shock and joined the other children playing there. Tess, with a curiously stealthy yet courageous movement, and with a still rising colour, unfastened her frock and began suckling the child.
苔丝·德北菲尔德是最后暂停工作的人之一。震惊结束后，她坐了下来，脸有些偏离同伴。当她给自己安排一个戴兔皮帽的男人，并把一条红色手帕塞进他的腰带时，把一杯啤酒放在电击器的顶部让她喝。但她没有接受他的提议。午餐一准备好，她就叫来了大女孩，她的妹妹，并抱起了她的孩子，她很高兴摆脱了负担，去参加下一个震动，加入了在那里玩耍的其他孩子。苔丝以一种奇怪的隐秘而勇敢的动作，脸色仍在上升，解开她的连衣裙，开始给孩子喂奶。

The men who sat nearest considerately turned their faces towards the other end of the field, some of them beginning to smoke; one, with absent-minded fondness, regretfully stroking the jar that would no longer yield a stream. All the women but Tess fell into animated talk, and adjusted the disarranged knots of their hair.
坐在最近的人体贴地把脸转向田野的另一端，其中一些人开始抽烟。一个人心不在焉地喜爱着，遗憾地抚摸着不再流水的罐子。除了苔丝之外，所有的女人都七嘴八舌地聊着，整理着乱糟糟的发髻。

When the infant had taken its fill, the young mother sat it upright in her lap, and looking into the far distance, dandled it with a gloomy indifference that was almost dislike; then all of a sudden she fell to violently kissing it some dozens of times, as if she could never leave off, the child crying at the vehemence of an onset which strangely combined passionateness with contempt.
当婴儿吃饱后，年轻的母亲把它笔直地放在腿上，望着远方，用一种阴郁、冷漠、近乎厌恶的态度抚摸着它。突然间，她猛烈地亲吻了它几十次，仿佛永远无法停止，孩子突然哭了起来，这种奇怪的热情与轻蔑结合在一起。

‘She’s fond of that there child, though she mid pretend to hate en, and say she wishes the baby and her too were in the churchyard,’ observed the woman in the red petticoat.
“她很喜欢那个孩子，尽管她假装讨厌那个孩子，并说她希望孩子和她也都在教堂墓地里，”穿红色衬裙的女人说道。

‘She’ll soon leave off saying that,’ replied the one in buff. ‘Lord, ‘tis wonderful what a body can get used to o’ that sort in time!’
“她很快就会不再这么说了，”浅黄色的人回答道。 “主啊，身体能够及时适应这种情况真是太好了！”

‘A little more than persuading had to do wi’ the coming o’t, I reckon. There were they that heard a sobbing one night last year in The Chase; and it mid ha’ gone hard wi’ a certain party if folks had come along.’
我认为，“对于即将到来的事情，说服不仅仅是说服”。去年的一个晚上，他们在追逐区听到了一阵抽泣声；如果人们一起来的话，某个政党就会变得很艰难。

‘Well, a little more, or a little less, ‘twas a thousand pities that it should have happened to she, of all others. But ‘tis always the comeliest! The plain ones be as safe as churches—hey, Jenny?’ The speaker turned to one of the group who certainly was not ill-defined as plain.
“好吧，多一点，或者少一点，对于其他所有人来说，这件事发生在她身上，真是一千件遗憾。”但它总是最漂亮的！朴素的就和教堂一样安全——嘿，珍妮？”说话者转向人群中的一个人，他当然没有像教堂那样含糊不清。

It was a thousand pities, indeed; it was impossible for even an enemy to feel otherwise on looking at Tess as she sat there, with her flower-like mouth and large tender eyes, neither black nor blue nor grey nor violet; rather all those shades together, and a hundred others, which could be seen if one looked into their irises—shade behind shade—tint beyond tint—around pupils that had no bottom; an almost standard woman, but for the slight incautiousness of character inherited from her race.
确实，这是一千种遗憾；即使是敌人，看到苔丝坐在那里，她的嘴巴像花一样，温柔的大眼睛，既不是黑色，也不是蓝色，也不是灰色，也不是紫色。相反，所有这些阴影都在一起，还有一百个其他阴影，如果人们观察他们的虹膜，就可以看到它们——阴影后面的阴影——色彩上的色彩——围绕着没有底部的瞳孔；一个几乎标准的女人，但由于她的种族继承了轻微的不谨慎的性格。

A resolution which had surprised herself had brought her into the fields this week for the first time during many months. After wearing and wasting her palpitating heart with every engine of regret that lonely inexperience could devise, common sense had illuminated her. She felt that she would do well to be useful again—to taste anew sweet independence at any price. The past was past; whatever it had been, it was no more at hand. Whatever its consequences, time would close over them; they would all in a few years be as if they had never been, and she herself grassed down and forgotten. Meanwhile the trees were just as green as before; the birds sang and the sun shone as clearly now as ever. The familiar surroundings had not darkened because of her grief, nor sickened because of her pain.
本周，一项让她自己都感到惊讶的决定让她几个月来第一次踏入田野。在孤独的缺乏经验所产生的各种悔恨引擎耗尽了她那颗悸动的心之后，常识照亮了她。她觉得自己最好能再次变得有用——不惜任何代价重新尝到独立的甜蜜滋味。过去的已经过去了；不管它曾经是什么，现在已经不复存在了。无论后果如何，时间都会结束他们；几年后，他们就会变得好像从来没有出现过一样，而她自己则草草了事，被遗忘了。与此同时，树木还像以前一样绿。鸟儿歌唱，阳光照耀得一如既往。熟悉的环境并没有因为她的悲伤而变得黑暗，也没有因为她的痛苦而变得恶心。

She might have seen that what had bowed her head so profoundly—the thought of the world’s concern at her situation—was founded on an illusion. She was not an existence, an experience, a passion, a structure of sensations, to anybody but herself. To all humankind besides, Tess was only a passing thought. Even to friends she was no more than a frequently passing thought. If she made herself miserable the livelong night and day it was only this much to them—‘Ah, she makes herself unhappy.’ If she tried to be cheerful, to dismiss all care, to take pleasure in the daylight, the flowers, the baby, she could only be this idea to them—‘Ah, she bears it very well.’ Moreover, alone in a desert island would she have been wretched at what had happened to her? Not greatly. If she could have been but just created, to discover herself as a spouseless mother, with no experience of life except as the parent of a nameless child, would the position have caused her to despair? No, she would have taken it calmly, and found pleasure therein. Most of the misery had been generated by her conventional aspect, and not by her innate sensations.
她可能已经看到，让她深深低下头的想法——全世界都关心她的处境——只是建立在一种幻觉之上。对于除了她自己之外的任何人来说，她都不是一个存在、一种经历、一种激情、一种感觉结构。除此之外，对于全人类来说，苔丝只是一个转瞬即逝的想法。即使对朋友来说，她也不过是一个经常闪现的念头。如果她让自己整夜都痛苦不堪，对他们来说也只有这么多——“啊，她让自己不快乐。”如果她试图变得快乐，抛开所有的忧虑，享受阳光、鲜花、阳光和阳光。宝贝，她对他们来说只能是这个想法——“啊，她承受得很好。”而且，独自一人在荒岛上，她会因为发生在她身上的事情而感到悲惨吗？不是很大。如果她刚刚被创造出来，就发现自己是一个没有配偶的母亲，除了作为一个无名孩子的父母之外没有任何生活经验，这个职位会让她绝望吗？不，她会平静地接受，并从中找到乐趣。大部分的痛苦都是由她的传统方面造成的，而不是由她与生俱来的感觉造成的。

Whatever Tess’s reasoning, some spirit had induced her to dress herself up neatly as she had formerly done, and come out into the fields, harvest-hands being greatly in demand just then. This was why she had borne herself with dignity, and had looked people calmly in the face at times, even when holding the baby in her arms.
不管苔丝的理由是什么，某种精神促使她像以前那样把自己打扮得漂漂亮亮，来到田野里，因为那时正需要大量的收割工人。这就是为什么她表现得很有尊严，有时甚至在抱着孩子的时候也能平静地看着别人。

The harvest-men rose from the shock of corn, and stretched their limbs, and extinguished their pipes. The horses, which had been unharnessed and fed, were again attached to the scarlet machine. Tess, having quickly eaten her own meal, beckoned to her eldest sister to come and take away the baby, fastened her dress, put on the buff gloves again, and stooped anew to draw a bond from the last completed sheaf for the tying of the next.
收割工人从玉米的震动中站了起来，伸展四肢，熄灭了烟斗。那些被卸下马具并喂饱的马匹又被重新连接到猩红色的机器上。苔丝很快吃完了自己的饭，招手叫姐姐来接孩子，然后系好衣服，又戴上浅黄色的手套，又弯下腰，从最后完成的一捆捆里抽出一根绳子，把孩子绑起来。下一个。

In the afternoon and evening the proceedings of the morning were continued, Tess staying on till dusk with the body of harvesters. Then they all rode home in one of the largest wagons, in the company of a broad tarnished moon that had risen from the ground to the eastwards, its face resembling the outworn gold-leaf halo of some worm-eaten Tuscan saint. Tess’s female companions sang songs, and showed themselves very sympathetic and glad at her reappearance out of doors, though they could not refrain from mischievously throwing in a few verses of the ballad about the maid who went to the merry green wood and came back a changed state. There are counterpoises and compensations in life; and the event which had made of her a social warning had also for the moment made her the most interesting personage in the village to many. Their friendliness won her still farther away from herself, their lively spirits were contagious, and she became almost gay.
下午和晚上，上午的工作继续进行，苔丝和收割机的尸体一起待到黄昏。然后，他们全都乘坐一辆最大的马车回家，伴随着一轮从地面向东升起的宽阔、失去光泽的月亮，它的脸就像某个被虫蛀的托斯卡纳圣人的破旧的金箔光环。苔丝的女伴们唱起歌来，对她再次出现在门外表示非常同情和高兴，不过她们还是忍不住调皮地加入了几句歌谣，内容是关于女仆去了快乐的绿色树林，回来时却变了样。状态。人生有平衡，有补偿；这件事使她受到社会警告，同时也使她成为村里许多人最感兴趣的人物。他们的友善使她离自己更远了，他们活泼的精神具有感染力，她几乎变得快乐起来。

But now that her moral sorrows were passing away a fresh one arose on the natural side of her which knew no social law. When she reached home it was to learn to her grief that the baby had been suddenly taken ill since the afternoon. Some such collapse had been probable, so tender and puny was its frame; but the event came as a shock nevertheless.
但现在，她道德上的悲伤已经过去，一种新的悲伤在她不知道社会法则的自然方面出现了。当她回到家时，她悲痛地得知孩子从下午开始就突然生病了。类似的倒塌是有可能发生的，因为它的框架是如此脆弱和脆弱。但这一事件还是令人震惊。

The baby’s offence against society in coming into the world was forgotten by the girl-mother; her soul’s desire was to continue that offence by preserving the life of the child. However, it soon grew clear that the hour of emancipation for that little prisoner of the flesh was to arrive earlier than her worst misgiving had conjectured. And when she had discovered this she was plunged into a misery which transcended that of the child’s simple loss. Her baby had not been baptized.
婴儿来到这个世界时对社会的冒犯被女母亲忘记了。她灵魂的愿望是通过保护孩子的生命来继续这种罪行。然而，很快我们就清楚了，那个肉体的小囚徒获得解放的时刻比她最担心的还要早到来。当她发现这一点时，她陷入了一种比失去孩子更痛苦的痛苦之中。她的孩子还没有受洗。

Tess had drifted into a frame of mind which accepted passively the consideration that if she should have to burn for what she had done, burn she must, and there was an end of it. Like all village girls, she was well grounded in the Holy Scriptures, and had dutifully studied the histories of Aholah and Aholibah, and knew the inferences to be drawn therefrom. But when the same question arose with regard to the baby, it had a very different colour. Her darling was about to die, and no salvation.
苔丝已经陷入了一种消极的心态，她被动地接受了这样的想法：如果她必须为自己所做的事而燃烧，她就必须燃烧，然后事情就结束了。像所有村里的女孩一样，她对圣经有很好的了解，并尽职尽责地研究了阿荷拉和阿荷利巴的历史，并知道从中可以得出的推论。但当同样的问题出现在婴儿身上时，它的颜色就截然不同了。她的爱人快要死了，而且没有救赎。

It was nearly bedtime, but she rushed downstairs and asked if she might send for the parson. The moment happened to be one at which her father’s sense of the antique nobility of his family was highest, and his sensitiveness to the smudge which Tess had set upon that nobility most pronounced, for he had just returned from his weekly booze at Rolliver’s Inn. No parson should come inside his door, he declared, prying into his affairs, just then, when, by her shame, it had become more necessary than ever to hide them. He locked the door and put the key in his pocket.
快到睡觉时间了，但她冲下楼，询问是否可以派人去叫牧师。恰巧此时，她父亲对自己家族古老贵族的感觉最为强烈，而他对苔丝给这种贵族带来的污点的敏感度也最为明显，因为他刚刚从罗利弗旅馆每周一次的豪饮归来。他宣称，任何牧师都不应该进他的门，打探他的事务，而就在那时，由于她的羞耻，比以往任何时候都更有必要隐藏这些事务。他锁上门，把钥匙放进口袋里。

The household went to bed, and, distressed beyond measure, Tess retired also. She was continually waking as she lay, and in the middle of the night found that the baby was still worse. It was obviously dying—quietly and painlessly, but none the less surely.
一家人都上床睡觉了，苔丝也极度痛苦地退休了。她躺着时不断醒来，半夜发现孩子的情况更糟。它显然正在死去——安静地、无痛地，但仍然是确定无疑的。

In her misery she rocked herself upon the bed. The clock struck the solemn hour of one, that hour when fancy stalks outside reason, and malignant possibilities stand rock-firm as facts. She thought of the child consigned to the nethermost corner of hell, as its double doom for lack of baptism and lack of legitimacy; saw the arch-fiend tossing it with his three-pronged fork, like the one they used for heating the oven on baking days; to which picture she added many other quaint and curious details of torment sometimes taught the young in this Christian country. The lurid presentment so powerfully affected her imagination in the silence of the sleeping house that her nightgown became damp with perspiration, and the bedstead shook with each throb of her heart.
她痛苦地在床上摇晃着。时钟敲响了庄严的一小时，在这个时刻，幻想超越了理性，邪恶的可能性像事实一样坚如磐石。她想到了被打入地狱最底层的孩子，因为缺乏洗礼和缺乏合法性而遭受双重厄运；看到大恶魔用他的三叉叉子扔它，就像他们在烘烤日用来加热烤箱的叉子一样；她在这幅画中添加了许多其他古怪而好奇的折磨细节，这些细节有时会教给这个基督教国家的年轻人。在沉睡的房子里，这可怕的景象极大地影响了她的想象力，以至于她的睡衣被汗水浸湿了，床架随着她心脏的每一次跳动而摇晃。

The infant’s breathing grew more difficult, and the mother’s mental tension increased. It was useless to devour the little thing with kisses; she could stay in bed no longer, and walked feverishly about the room.
婴儿的呼吸变得更加困难，母亲的精神也更加紧张。用亲吻来吞噬这个小东西是没有用的；她再也不能躺在床上了，在房间里疯狂地走来走去。

‘O merciful God, have pity; have pity upon my poor baby!’ she cried. ‘Heap as much anger as you want to upon me, and welcome; but pity the child!’
‘仁慈的上帝啊，求你怜悯；可怜可怜我可怜的孩子吧！”她喊道。 “你想对我发多少怒就发多少怒，欢迎；但可怜这个孩子吧！

She leant against the chest of drawers, and murmured incoherent supplications for a long while, till she suddenly started up.
她靠在五斗柜上，语无伦次地低声恳求了半晌，才突然惊醒。

‘Ah! perhaps baby can be saved! Perhaps it will be just the same!’
'啊！或许宝宝还有救！也许一切都会一样！

She spoke so brightly that it seemed as though her face might have shone in the gloom surrounding her. She lit a candle, and went to a second and a third bed under the wall, where she awoke her young sisters and brothers, all of whom occupied the same room. Pulling out the washing-stand so that she could get behind it, she poured some water from a jug, and made them kneel around, putting their hands together with fingers exactly vertical. While the children, scarcely awake, awe-stricken at her manner, their eyes growing larger and larger, remained in this position, she took the baby from her bed—a child’s child—so immature as scarce to seem a sufficient personality to endow its producer with the maternal title. Tess then stood erect with the infant on her arm beside the basin; the next sister held the Prayer-Book open before her, as the clerk at church held it before the parson; and thus the girl set about baptizing her child.
她说话的声音那么明亮，就好像她的脸在周围的阴暗中闪闪发亮。她点燃了一根蜡烛，走到墙下的第二张和第三张床上，在那里她叫醒了住在同一个房间的年轻的姐妹和兄弟。她把洗脸架拉出来，躲到后面，从壶里倒了一些水，让他们跪下，双手合十，手指垂直。孩子们几乎还没醒，对她的举止感到敬畏，眼睛越来越大，保持着这个姿势，而她则把婴儿从床上抱起来——一个孩子的孩子——如此不成熟，似乎还没有足够的个性来赋予她的生命。具有母亲头衔的制片人。然后苔丝站在水盆旁边，胳膊上抱着婴儿。下一位修女将祈祷书打开放在她面前，就像教堂的职员将它放在牧师面前一样。于是女孩开始为她的孩子施洗。

Her figure looked singularly tall and imposing as she stood in her long white nightgown, a thick cable of twisted dark hair hanging straight down her back to her waist. The kindly dimness of the weak candle abstracted from her form and features the little blemishes which sunlight might have revealed—the stubble scratches upon her wrists, and the weariness of her eyes—her high enthusiasm having a transfiguring effect upon the face which had been her undoing, showing it as a thing of immaculate beauty, with a touch of dignity which was almost regal. The little ones kneeling round, their sleepy eyes blinking and red, awaited her preparations full of a suspended wonder which their physical heaviness at that hour would not allow to become active.
她穿着长长的白色睡衣，一头浓密的黑发从背后垂到腰间，身材显得异常高挑和威严。微弱的蜡烛温柔地昏暗，从她的身体上抽象出来，突出了阳光下可能会暴露的小瑕疵——她手腕上的胡茬划痕，还有她眼睛的疲倦——她的高度热情对她原本的脸产生了变形的效果。毁灭，将其展示为一件完美无瑕的美丽事物，带有一丝近乎帝王般的尊严。小孩子们跪在周围，睡眼惺忪地眨着，红红的，等待着她的准备工作，心中充满了悬而未决的惊奇，而此时他们的身体沉重，不允许他们变得活跃起来。

The most impressed of them said:
其中印象最深刻的是：

‘Be you really going to christen him, Tess?’
“你真的要给他起洗礼吗，苔丝？”

The girl-mother replied in a grave affirmative.
女孩母亲严肃地回答说是肯定的。

‘What’s his name going to be?’
“他叫什么名字？”

She had not thought of that, but a name suggested by a phrase in the book of Genesis came into her head as she proceeded with the baptismal service, and now she pronounced it:
她没有想到这一点，但当她进行洗礼时，《创世记》中的一个短语所暗示的一个名字进入了她的脑海，现在她宣布了这个名字：

‘SORROW, I baptize thee in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost.’
“悲伤的是，我奉父、子、圣灵的名给你施洗。”

She sprinkled the water, and there was silence.
她洒了水，周围一片寂静。

‘Say ‘Amen,’ children.’
“孩子们，说‘阿门’。”

The tiny voices piped in obedient response, ‘Amen!’
微小的声音顺从地回应道：“阿门！”

Tess went on:
苔丝继续说道：

‘We receive this child’—and so forth—‘and do sign him with the sign of the Cross.’
“我们接收这个孩子”——等等——“并在他身上画了十字。”

Here she dipped her hand into the basin, and fervently drew an immense cross upon the baby with her forefinger, continuing with the customary sentences as to his manfully fighting against sin, the world, and the devil, and being a faithful soldier and servant unto his life’s end. She duly went on with the Lord’s Prayer, the children lisping it after her in a thin gnat-like wail, till, at the conclusion, raising their voices to clerk’s pitch, they again piped into silence, ‘Amen!’
在这里，她把手伸进盆里，用食指热切地在婴儿身上画了一个巨大的十字架，继续用惯常的句子讲述他英勇地与罪恶、世界和魔鬼作斗争，并成为一个忠实的战士和仆人。他生命的终结。她按部就班地继续念主祷文，孩子们在她后面用小虫般的细弱哀号声念着主祷文，直到结束时，他们把声音提高到书记员的音调，再次安静下来，“阿门！”

Then their sister, with much augmented confidence in the efficacy of the sacrament, poured forth from the bottom of her heart the thanksgiving that follows, uttering it boldly and triumphantly in the stopt-diapason note which her voice acquired when her heart was in her speech, and which will never be forgotten by those who knew her. The ecstasy of faith almost apotheosized her; it set upon her face a glowing irradiation, and brought a red spot into the middle of each cheek; while the miniature candle-flame inverted in her eye-pupils shone like a diamond. The children gazed up at her with more and more reverence, and no longer had a will for questioning. She did not look like Sissy to them now, but as a being large, towering, and awful—a divine personage with whom they had nothing in common.
然后他们的姐妹，对圣礼的功效更加充满信心，从心底倾注了接下来的感恩，用停顿的音调大胆而胜利地说出了这句话，当她的心在讲话时，她的声音就获得了这种效果。 ，认识她的人永远不会忘记。信仰的狂喜几乎使她神化。它在她的脸上发出了耀眼的光芒，在脸颊中央留下了一个红点。而她眼眸中倒映的微型烛火，则闪烁着钻石般的光芒。孩子们抬头看她的目光越来越敬畏，不再有询问的意思。现在在他们看来，她不再像茜茜，而是一个高大、高耸、可怕的人物——一个与他们毫无共同之处的神圣人物。

Poor Sorrow’s campaign against sin, the world, and the devil was doomed to be of limited brilliancy—luckily perhaps for himself, considering his beginnings. In the blue of the morning that fragile soldier and servant breathed his last, and when the other children awoke they cried bitterly, and begged Sissy to have another pretty baby.
可怜的悲伤对抗罪恶、世界和魔鬼的运动注定不会有辉煌——考虑到他的出身，也许对他来说是幸运的。在蓝色的早晨，那个脆弱的士兵和仆人咽下了最后一口气，当其他孩子醒来时，他们痛哭流涕，恳求茜茜再再生一个漂亮的孩子。

The calmness which had possessed Tess since the christening remained with her in the infant’s loss. In the daylight, indeed, she felt her terrors about his soul to have been somewhat exaggerated; whether well founded or not, she had no uneasiness now, reasoning that if Providence would not ratify such an act of approximation she, for one, did not value the kind of heaven lost by the irregularity—either for herself or for her child.
苔丝自洗礼以来一直保持的平静在失去婴儿后依然存在。事实上，在白天，她觉得自己对他灵魂的恐惧有些夸大了。无论是否有根据，她现在都没有感到不安，她推断，如果上帝不批准这种近似行为，她就不会珍惜因这种不规则而失去的那种天堂——无论是对她自己还是对她的孩子。

So passed away Sorrow the Undesired—that intrusive creature, that bastard gift of shameless Nature, who respects not the social law; a waif to whom eternal Time had been a matter of days merely, who knew not that such things as years and centuries ever were; to whom the cottage interior was the universe, the week’s weather climate, new-born babyhood human existence, and the instinct to suck human knowledge.
就这样，“不受欢迎的悲伤”去世了——那个侵入性的生物，那个无耻的大自然的混蛋礼物，不尊重社会法则；对一个流浪者来说，永恒的时间只不过是几天的事，他不知道岁月和世纪之类的东西是存在的。对他们来说，小屋的内部就是宇宙、一周的天气气候、新生儿时期的人类存在，以及吸取人类知识的本能。

Tess, who mused on the christening a good deal, wondered if it were doctrinally sufficient to secure a Christian burial for the child. Nobody could tell this but the parson of the parish, and he was a new-comer, and did not know her. She went to his house after dusk, and stood by the gate, but could not summon courage to go in. The enterprise would have been abandoned if she had not by accident met him coming homeward as she turned away. In the gloom she did not mind speaking freely.
苔丝对洗礼进行了很多思考，想知道在教义上是否足以确保为孩子举行基督教葬礼。除了教区的牧师外，没有人知道这一点，他是新来的，不认识她。黄昏后，她去了他家，站在门口，却鼓不起勇气进去。若不是她转身时无意中遇见了他回家的路，事业就泡汤了。在黑暗中她不介意畅所欲言。

‘I should like to ask you something, sir.’
“我想问你一件事，先生。”

He expressed his willingness to listen, and she told the story of the baby’s illness and the extemporized ordinance. ‘And now, sir,’ she added earnestly, ‘can you tell me this—will it be just the same for him as if you had baptized him?’
他表示愿意听，她则讲述了婴儿的病情和临时法令的故事。 “现在，先生，”她认真地补充道，“您能告诉我这一点吗？对他来说，这会像您为他施洗一样吗？”

Having the natural feelings of a tradesman at finding that a job he should have been called in for had been unskilfully botched by his customers among themselves, he was disposed to say no. Yet the dignity of the girl, the strange tenderness in her voice, combined to affect his nobler impulses—or rather those that he had left in him after ten years of endeavour to graft technical belief on actual scepticism. The man and the ecclesiastic fought within him, and the victory fell to the man.
作为一个商人，当他发现自己应该接受的工作被他的顾客之间不熟练地搞砸了时，他会自然而然地拒绝。然而，这个女孩的尊严，她声音中奇怪的温柔，结合起来影响了他更高尚的冲动——或者更确切地说，是他在十年努力将技术信仰移植到实际怀疑论之后留在他身上的那些冲动。人和教会在他内心进行斗争，最后胜利落在了男人身上。

‘My dear girl,’ he said, ‘it will be just the same.’
“我亲爱的女孩，”他说，“一切都会一样。”

‘Then will you give him a Christian burial?’ she asked quickly.
“那么你会给他举行基督教葬礼吗？”她很快问道。

The Vicar felt himself cornered. Hearing of the baby’s illness, he had conscientiously gone to the house after nightfall to perform the rite, and, unaware that the refusal to admit him had come from Tess’s father and not from Tess, he could not allow the plea of necessity for its irregular administration.
牧师感到自己被逼到了绝境。听说孩子生病了，夜幕降临后，他就认真地去家里举行了仪式，而且，他没有意识到拒绝接纳他的决定是苔丝的父亲而不是苔丝本人提出的，他不能允许以紧急情况为由的抗辩。行政。

‘Ah—that’s another matter,’ he said.
“啊——那是另一回事了，”他说。

‘Another matter—why?’ asked Tess, rather warmly.
“另一件事——为什么？”苔丝相当热情地问道。

‘Well—I would willingly do so if only we two were concerned. But I must not—for certain reasons.’
“好吧——只要我们两个担心的话，我很乐意这样做。但出于某些原因，我不能这样做。

‘Just for once, sir!’
“就一次，先生！”

‘Really I must not.’
“我真的不能。”

‘O sir!’ She seized his hand as she spoke.
“哦，先生！”她边说边抓住他的手。

He withdrew it, shaking his head.
他收回手，摇摇头。

‘Then I don’t like you!’ she burst out, ‘and I’ll never come to your church no more!’
“那我就不喜欢你了！”她大声说道，“我再也不会来你的教堂了！”

‘Don’t talk so rashly.’
「别说话这么鲁莽。」

‘Perhaps it will be just the same to him if you don’t? ... Will it be just the same? Don’t for God’s sake speak as saint to sinner, but as you yourself to me myself—poor me!’
‘如果你不这么做的话，也许对他来说也是一样的吧？ ……会一样吗？看在上帝的份上，不要像圣人一样对罪人说话，而要像你自己一样对我自己说话——可怜的我！

How the Vicar reconciled his answer with the strict notions he supposed himself to hold on these subjects it is beyond a layman’s power to tell, though not to excuse. Somewhat moved, he said in this case also—
牧师如何将他的回答与他认为自己对这些主题持有的严格观念相一致，这超出了外行人的能力，但不能原谅。他有些感动，在这种情况下也说道——

‘It will be just the same.’
“一切都会一样。”

So the baby was carried in a small deal box, under an ancient woman’s shawl, to the churchyard that night, and buried by lantern-light, at the cost of a shilling and a pint of beer to the sexton, in that shabby corner of God’s allotment where He lets the nettles grow, and where all unbaptized infants, notorious drunkards, suicides, and others of the conjecturally damned are laid. In spite of the untoward surroundings, however, Tess bravely made a little cross of two laths and a piece of string, and having bound it with flowers, she stuck it up at the head of the grave one evening when she could enter the churchyard without being seen, putting at the foot also a bunch of the same flowers in a little jar of water to keep them alive. What matter was it that on the outside of the jar the eye of mere observation noted the words ‘Keelwell’s Marmalade’? The eye of maternal affection did not see them in its vision of higher things.
于是，那天晚上，婴儿被装在一个小盒子里，盖着一位古代妇女的披肩，带到了教堂墓地，在灯笼的灯光下埋葬了，费用是给教堂司事一先令和一品脱啤酒，埋葬在教堂那个破旧的角落里。上帝让荨麻生长的地方，所有未受洗的婴儿、臭名昭著的酒鬼、自杀者和其他被推测该受诅咒的人都被埋葬的地方。然而，尽管环境恶劣，苔丝还是勇敢地用两块板条和一根绳子做了一个小十字架，并用鲜花把它绑起来，有一天晚上，当她可以不费力地进入墓地时，她把它插在坟墓的顶端。被看到后，还在脚下放了一束同样的花，放在一个小罐子里，让它们保持活力。仅仅观察的眼睛就注意到罐子外面写着“基尔韦尔果酱”，这有什么关系呢？母爱之眼并没有以更高尚的眼光看待他们。

XV

‘By experience,’ says Roger Ascham, ‘we find out a short way by a long wandering.’ Not seldom that long wandering unfits us for further travel, and of what use is our experience to us then? Tess Durbeyfield’s experience was of this incapacitating kind. At last she had learned what to do; but who would now accept her doing?
罗杰·阿沙姆说：“根据经验，我们通过长途跋涉找到了一条捷径。”长途跋涉常常使我们不适合进一步旅行，那么我们的经验对我们有什么用呢？苔丝·德北菲尔德的经历就是这种令人丧失能力的经历。她终于知道该做什么了。但现在谁会接受她的做法呢？

If before going to the d’Urbervilles’ she had vigorously moved under the guidance of sundry gnomic texts and phrases known to her and to the world in general, no doubt she would never have been imposed on. But it had not been in Tess’s power—nor is it in anybody’s power—to feel the whole truth of golden opinions while it is possible to profit by them. She—and how many more—might have ironically said to God with Saint Augustine: ‘Thou hast counselled a better course than Thou hast permitted.’
如果在去德伯维尔之前，她在她和全世界都知道的各种格言文本和短语的指导下积极行动，毫无疑问，她永远不会被强加。但苔丝没有能力——也没有人有能力——去感受金科玉律的全部真理，同时也有可能从中获利。她——还有多少人——可能会和圣奥古斯丁一样讽刺地对上帝说：“你所建议的做法比你所允许的更好。”

She remained at her father’s house during the winter months, plucking fowls, or cramming turkeys and geese, or making clothes for her sisters and brothers out of some finery which d’Urberville had given her, and she had put by with contempt. Apply to him she would not. But she would often clasp her hands behind her head and muse when she was supposed to be working hard.
冬天的几个月里，她留在父亲家里，拔禽类的毛，或者塞满火鸡和鹅，或者用德伯维尔给她的一些华丽衣服为她的兄弟姐妹做衣服，而她却轻蔑地搁置了。她不会向他申请。但当她应该努力工作时，她常常会双手抱在脑后沉思。

She philosophically noted dates as they came past in the revolution of the year; the disastrous night of her undoing at Trantridge with its dark background of The Chase; also the dates of the baby’s birth and death; also her own birthday; and every other day individualized by incidents in which she had taken some share. She suddenly thought one afternoon, when looking in the glass at her fairness, that there was yet another date, of greater importance to her than those; that of her own death, when all these charms would have disappeared; a day which lay sly and unseen among all the other days of the year, giving no sign or sound when she annually passed over it; but not the less surely there. When was it? Why did she not feel the chill of each yearly encounter with such a cold relation? She had Jeremy Taylor’s thought that some time in the future those who had known her would say: ‘It is the ——th, the day that poor Tess Durbeyfield died”; and there would be nothing singular to their minds in the statement. Of that day, doomed to be her terminus in time through all the ages, she did not know the place in month, week, season or year.
她哲学地记录了当年革命中过去的日期；在《追逐》的黑暗背景下，她在特兰特里奇遭遇灾难性的夜晚；还有婴儿的出生和死亡日期；还有她自己的生日；每隔一天，她都会参与一些事件。一天下午，当她看着镜子里自己的白皙肌肤时，她突然想到，还有另一个约会，对她来说比这两个约会更重要；当所有这些魅力都消失时，她自己就会死去；在一年中的所有其他日子中，这一天是狡猾地、看不见的，当她每年经过它时，没有任何迹象或声音。但同样肯定的是。那是什么时候？为何每年遇到如此冷漠的亲人，她却没有感受到一丝寒意？她有杰里米·泰勒的想法，在未来的某个时候，那些认识她的人会说：“这是可怜的苔丝·德北菲尔德去世的那天”；他们的说法中并没有什么奇怪的地方。那一天，注定是她千古时光的终点站，她不知道是月、周、季还是年。

Almost at a leap Tess thus changed from simple girl to complex woman. Symbols of reflectiveness passed into her face, and a note of tragedy at times into her voice. Her eyes grew larger and more eloquent. She became what would have been called a fine creature; her aspect was fair and arresting; her soul that of a woman whom the turbulent experiences of the last year or two had quite failed to demoralize. But for the world’s opinion those experiences would have been simply a liberal education.
苔丝几乎一下子就从单纯的女孩变成了复杂的女人。她的脸上流露出深思熟虑的表情，声音里有时也透着一丝悲剧色彩。她的眼睛变得更大，更有神情。她成了所谓的优秀人物。她的外表美丽而引人注目。她的灵魂是一个女人，过去一两年的动荡经历并没有使她士气低落。但在世人看来，这些经历只不过是一种通识教育。

She had held so aloof of late that her trouble, never generally known, was nearly forgotten in Marlott. But it became evident to her that she could never be really comfortable again in a place which had seen the collapse of her family’s attempt to ‘claim kin’—and, through her, even closer union—with the rich d’Urbervilles. At least she could not be comfortable there till long years should have obliterated her keen consciousness of it. Yet even now Tess felt the pulse of hopeful life still warm within her; she might be happy in some nook which had no memories. To escape the past and all that appertained thereto was to annihilate it, and to do that she would have to get away.
她最近表现得如此冷漠，以至于她的麻烦几乎被马洛特遗忘了，而她的麻烦从未被普遍所知。但对她来说，很明显的是，她再也无法在这个地方真正感到舒服了，因为她的家人试图与富有的德伯维尔“夺回亲缘”——并通过她建立更紧密的结合——的努力失败了。至少，在漫长的岁月磨灭了她对这里的敏锐意识之前，她在那里不会感到舒服。然而，即使是现在，苔丝仍感到她内心充满希望的生活的脉搏。她也许会在某个没有记忆的角落里感到幸福。要逃避过去以及与之相关的一切，就必须消灭它，而要做到这一点，她就必须离开。

Was once lost always lost really true of chastity? she would ask herself. She might prove it false if she could veil bygones. The recuperative power which pervaded organic nature was surely not denied to maidenhood alone.
一旦失去就永远失去贞操真的是真的吗？她会问自己。如果她能掩盖过去的事情，她可能会证明这是错误的。自然并不仅仅具有少女时期所具有的恢复能力。

She waited a long time without finding opportunity for a new departure. A particularly fine spring came round, and the stir of germination was almost audible in the buds; it moved her, as it moved the wild animals, and made her passionate to go. At last, one day in early May, a letter reached her from a former friend of her mother’s, to whom she had addressed inquiries long before—a person whom she had never seen—that a skilful milkmaid was required at a dairy-house many miles to the southward, and that the dairyman would be glad to have her for the summer months.
她等了很久，都没有找到重新出发的机会。一个特别好的春天来了，几乎可以听到花蕾中发芽的声音。它感动了她，就像感动了野生动物一样，让她充满了前往的热情。最后，五月初的一天，她收到了一封来自她母亲的前朋友的信，她很久以前就向这位朋友询问过——一个她从未见过的人——说许多奶牛场都需要一名熟练的挤奶女工。向南数英里，奶牛场老板会很高兴拥有她度过夏季。

It was not quite so far off as could have been wished; but it was probably far enough, her radius of movement and repute having been so small. To persons of limited spheres, miles are as geographical degrees, parishes as counties, counties as provinces and kingdoms.
这并不像人们所希望的那么遥远。但也许已经足够远了，她的活动半径和名声都很小。对于范围有限的人来说，英里相当于地理等级，教区相当于县，县相当于省和王国。

On one point she was resolved: there should be no more d’Urberville air-castles in the dreams and deeds of her new life. She would be the dairymaid Tess, and nothing more. Her mother knew Tess’s feeling on this point so well, though no words had passed between them on the subject, that she never alluded to the knightly ancestry now.
有一次，她下定决心：她新生活的梦想和行动中不应该再有德伯维尔空中城堡。她将是挤奶女工苔丝，仅此而已。她的母亲非常了解苔丝在这一点上的感受，尽管他们之间没有就这个问题说过话，所以她现在从未提及过骑士血统。

Yet such is human inconsistency that one of the interests of the new place to her was the accidental virtues of its lying near her forefathers’ country (for they were not Blakemore men, though her mother was Blakemore to the bone). The dairy called Talbothays, for which she was bound, stood not remotely from some of the former estates of the d’Urbervilles, near the great family vaults of her granddames and their powerful husbands. She would be able to look at them, and think not only that d’Urberville, like Babylon, had fallen, but that the individual innocence of a humble descendant could lapse as silently. All the while she wondered if any strange good thing might come of her being in her ancestral land; and some spirit within her rose automatically as the sap in the twigs. It was unexpected youth, surging up anew after its temporary check, and bringing with it hope, and the invincible instinct towards self-delight.
然而，人类的矛盾性是如此之大，以至于新地方对她的兴趣之一是它位于她祖先的国家附近的偶然优点（因为他们不是布莱克莫尔人，尽管她的母亲骨子里是布莱克莫尔人）。她要去的那家名叫塔尔博塞斯的乳品厂，距离德伯维尔家族的一些前庄园不远，靠近她的祖母和她们有权势的丈夫的大家族金库。她看着它们，不仅会想到德伯维尔像巴比伦一样已经沦陷，而且一个卑微后裔的个人纯真也可能会悄无声息地消失。她一直在想，如果她来到祖传的土地上，会不会有什么奇怪的好事呢？她内心的某种精神就像树枝中的汁液一样自动升腾。这是出人意料的青春，在暂时的抑制之后重新勃发，带来了希望，以及不可战胜的自我愉悦的本能。

END OF PHASE THE SECOND
第二阶段结束

Phase the Third: The Rally
第三阶段：集会

XVI
十六

On a thyme-scented, bird-hatching morning in May, between two and three years after the return from Trantridge—silent, reconstructive years for Tess Durbeyfield—she left her home for the second time.
五月的一个百里香芬芳、鸟儿孵化的早晨，也就是从特兰特里奇回来两三年后——对于苔丝·德北菲尔德来说，这是安静的、重建的岁月——她第二次离开了家。

Having packed up her luggage so that it could be sent to her later, she started in a hired trap for the little town of Stourcastle, through which it was necessary to pass on her journey, now in a direction almost opposite to that of her first adventuring. On the curve of the nearest hill she looked back regretfully at Marlott and her father’s house, although she had been so anxious to get away.
收拾好行李以便稍后寄给她后，她开始在一个租用的陷阱中前往斯托卡斯尔小镇，她的旅程必须经过这个小镇，现在的方向几乎与她第一次的方向相反冒险。在最近的山坡上，她遗憾地回头看了看马洛特和她父亲的房子，尽管她一直渴望离开。

Her kindred dwelling there would probably continue their daily lives as heretofore, with no great diminution of pleasure in their consciousness, although she would be far off, and they deprived of her smile. In a few days the children would engage in their games as merrily as ever, without the sense of any gap left by her departure. This leaving of the younger children she had decided to be for the best; were she to remain they would probably gain less good by her precepts than harm by her example.
她的亲人住在那里，很可能会像以前一样继续他们的日常生活，尽管她离得很远，他们也失去了她的微笑，但他们意识中的快乐并没有大大减少。几天后，孩子们就会像以前一样快乐地玩游戏，丝毫感觉不到她的离开留下的任何间隙。她决定离开年幼的孩子是为了最好的结果。如果她留下来，他们从她的戒律中获得的好处可能会比她的榜样带来的伤害更大。

She went through Stourcastle without pausing and onward to a junction of highways, where she could await a carrier’s van that ran to the south-west; for the railways which engirdled this interior tract of country had never yet struck across it. While waiting, however, there came along a farmer in his spring cart, driving approximately in the direction that she wished to pursue. Though he was a stranger to her she accepted his offer of a seat beside him, ignoring that its motive was a mere tribute to her countenance. He was going to Weatherbury, and by accompanying him thither she could walk the remainder of the distance instead of travelling in the van by way of Casterbridge.
她没有停下来，穿过斯图尔卡斯尔，继续前往高速公路的交汇处，在那里她可以等待一辆向西南方向行驶的运输车。因为环绕这片内陆地区的铁路从未穿越过它。然而，在等待的时候，一位农夫驾着春车走过来，大约朝着她要追寻的方向行驶。尽管他对她来说是个陌生人，但她接受了他在他旁边的座位，忽略了其动机仅仅是为了向她的面容致敬。他要去威瑟伯里，只要陪他去那里，她就可以步行走完剩下的路程，而不必乘坐面包车取道卡斯特桥。

Tess did not stop at Weatherbury, after this long drive, further than to make a slight nondescript meal at noon at a cottage to which the farmer recommended her. Thence she started on foot, basket in hand, to reach the wide upland of heath dividing this district from the low-lying meads of a further valley in which the dairy stood that was the aim and end of her day’s pilgrimage.
经过这么长的车程，苔丝并没有在威瑟伯里停留，只是中午在农夫推荐她去的一间小屋里吃了一顿普普通通的饭菜。从那里，她提着篮子开始步行，到达广阔的石南高地，该高地将这个地区与另一个山谷的低洼草地分开，那里的奶牛场就是她一天朝圣的目标和终点。

Tess had never before visited this part of the country, and yet she felt akin to the landscape. Not so very far to the left of her she could discern a dark patch in the scenery, which inquiry confirmed her in supposing to be trees marking the environs of Kingsbere—in the church of which parish the bones of her ancestors—her useless ancestors—lay entombed.
苔丝以前从未去过这个国家的这个地区，但她对这里的风景感到很熟悉。在她左边不远的地方，她可以看到风景中的一块黑斑，这一询问证实了她认为是标记金斯比尔周围的树木——在这个教区的教堂里，有她祖先的骨头——她无用的祖先——埋葬了。

She had no admiration for them now; she almost hated them for the dance they had led her; not a thing of all that had been theirs did she retain but the old seal and spoon. ‘Pooh—I have as much of mother as father in me!’ she said. ‘All my prettiness comes from her, and she was only a dairymaid.’
她现在对他们不再钦佩了。她几乎恨他们带领她跳舞。除了旧印章和勺子之外，她没有保留任何曾经属于他们的东西。 “呸——我身上既有父亲的影子，也有母亲的影子！”她说。 “我所有的美丽都来自于她，而她只是一个挤奶女工。”

The journey over the intervening uplands and lowlands of Egdon, when she reached them, was a more troublesome walk than she had anticipated, the distance being actually but a few miles. It was two hours, owing to sundry wrong turnings, ere she found herself on a summit commanding the long-sought-for vale, the Valley of the Great Dairies, the valley in which milk and butter grew to rankness, and were produced more profusely, if less delicately, than at her home—the verdant plain so well watered by the river Var or Froom.
当她到达埃格顿时，要穿过中间的高地和低地，这比她预想的要困难得多，距离实际上只有几英里。由于各种错误的转弯，花了两个小时，她才发现自己到达了山顶，俯瞰着一直以来寻找的山谷，伟大的乳制品山谷，牛奶和黄油在这个山谷中变得发臭，并且生产得更加丰富。 ，虽然不那么精致，但比在她的家——瓦尔河或弗鲁姆河灌溉的青翠平原。

It was intrinsically different from the Vale of Little Dairies, Blackmoor Vale, which, save during her disastrous sojourn at Trantridge, she had exclusively known till now. The world was drawn to a larger pattern here. The enclosures numbered fifty acres instead of ten, the farmsteads were more extended, the groups of cattle formed tribes hereabout; there only families. These myriads of cows stretching under her eyes from the far east to the far west outnumbered any she had ever seen at one glance before. The green lea was speckled as thickly with them as a canvas by Van Alsloot or Sallaert with burghers. The ripe hue of the red and dun kine absorbed the evening sunlight, which the white-coated animals returned to the eye in rays almost dazzling, even at the distant elevation on which she stood.
它与小乳品谷、布莱克摩尔谷有本质上的不同，除了她在特兰特里奇灾难性的逗留期间，她到现在为止都只知道布莱克摩尔谷。世界被这里更大的格局所吸引。围场的面积从十英亩变成了五十英亩，农庄更加广阔，牛群在附近形成了部落。只有家庭。这些无数的牛在她的眼前从远东延伸到远西，数量比她以前见过的任何牛都要多。绿色的草坪上布满了他们，就像范·阿尔斯洛特或萨拉特的画布上布满了市民一样。红色和暗褐色的牛的成熟色调吸收了傍晚的阳光，白色皮毛的动物以几乎令人眼花缭乱的光线返回眼睛，即使在她所站的远处高处也是如此。

The bird’s-eye perspective before her was not so luxuriantly beautiful, perhaps, as that other one which she knew so well; yet it was more cheering. It lacked the intensely blue atmosphere of the rival vale, and its heavy soils and scents; the new air was clear, bracing, ethereal. The river itself, which nourished the grass and cows of these renowned dairies, flowed not like the streams in Blackmoor. Those were slow, silent, often turbid; flowing over beds of mud into which the incautious wader might sink and vanish unawares. The Froom waters were clear as the pure River of Life shown to the Evangelist, rapid as the shadow of a cloud, with pebbly shallows that prattled to the sky all day long. There the water-flower was the lily; the crow-foot here.
也许，她面前的鸟瞰图并不像她熟悉的另一幅那样华丽美丽。但更令人欢呼雀跃。这里没有竞争对手山谷那样深蓝色的气氛，也没有厚重的土壤和气味。新的空气清澈、令人振奋、空灵。这条河本身滋养了这些著名乳品厂的草和奶牛，但它的流动与布莱克莫尔的溪流不同。那些声音缓慢、安静、常常浑浊；流过泥床，不小心涉水的人可能会不知不觉地沉入泥床并消失。弗鲁姆河的河水清澈，就像福音传教士所看到的纯净的生命之河，水流如云影般急流，卵石浅滩整天哗啦啦地响到天空。那里的水花是百合；这里的鱼尾纹。

Either the change in the quality of the air from heavy to light, or the sense of being amid new scenes where there were no invidious eyes upon her, sent up her spirits wonderfully. Her hopes mingled with the sunshine in an ideal photosphere which surrounded her as she bounded along against the soft south wind. She heard a pleasant voice in every breeze, and in every bird’s note seemed to lurk a joy.
无论是空气质量从沉重变得轻盈的变化，还是置身于新场景中的感觉，没有敌意的目光注视着她，都让她精神振奋。当她顶着柔和的南风前进时，她的希望与理想的光球层中的阳光融为一体，围绕着她。每一阵微风中，她都听到悦耳的声音，每一声鸟鸣中似乎都潜藏着欢乐。

Her face had latterly changed with changing states of mind, continually fluctuating between beauty and ordinariness, according as the thoughts were gay or grave. One day she was pink and flawless; another pale and tragical. When she was pink she was feeling less than when pale; her more perfect beauty accorded with her less elevated mood; her more intense mood with her less perfect beauty. It was her best face physically that was now set against the south wind.
她的面容随着心境的变化而变化，随着思想的欢快或严肃，不断地在美丽与平凡之间波动。有一天，她变成了粉红色，完美无瑕；另一个苍白而悲惨。当她呈粉红色时，她的感觉比苍白时要少。她更加完美的美丽与她不那么高涨的情绪相一致。她的情绪更加强烈，但她的美貌却不太完美。现在，迎着南风的是她身体最好的脸。

The irresistible, universal, automatic tendency to find sweet pleasure somewhere, which pervades all life, from the meanest to the highest, had at length mastered Tess. Being even now only a young woman of twenty, one who mentally and sentimentally had not finished growing, it was impossible that any event should have left upon her an impression that was not in time capable of transmutation.
苔丝有一种不可抗拒的、普遍的、自动的倾向，即在某个地方寻找甜蜜的快乐，这种倾向遍及所有的生活，从最卑微的到最高贵的，最终控制了苔丝。现在她还只是一个二十岁的年轻女子，精神上和情感上都还没有完成成长，任何事情都不可能给她留下不及时转变的印象。

And thus her spirits, and her thankfulness, and her hopes, rose higher and higher. She tried several ballads, but found them inadequate; till, recollecting the psalter that her eyes had so often wandered over of a Sunday morning before she had eaten of the tree of knowledge, she chanted: ‘O ye Sun and Moon ... O ye Stars ... ye Green Things upon the Earth ... ye Fowls of the Air ... Beasts and Cattle ... Children of Men ... bless ye the Lord, praise Him and magnify Him for ever!’
因此，她的精神、她的感恩、她的希望越来越高。她尝试了几首民谣，但发现都不够。直到，回忆起周日早上她在吃知识之树之前经常浏览的诗篇，她吟诵道：“太阳和月亮啊……星星啊……地球上的绿色事物”地球……你们空中的飞禽……野兽和牛……人类之子……你们赞美主，赞美他并永远尊崇他！

She suddenly stopped and murmured: ‘But perhaps I don’t quite know the Lord as yet.’
她突然停了下来，低声说道：“但也许我还不太认识主。”

And probably the half-unconscious rhapsody was a Fetishistic utterance in a Monotheistic setting; women whose chief companions are the forms and forces of outdoor Nature retain in their souls far more of the Pagan fantasy of their remote forefathers than of the systematized religion taught their race at later date. However, Tess found at least approximate expression for her feelings in the old Benedicite that she had lisped from infancy; and it was enough. Such high contentment with such a slight initial performance as that of having started towards a means of independent living was a part of the Durbeyfield temperament. Tess really wished to walk uprightly, while her father did nothing of the kind; but she resembled him in being content with immediate and small achievements, and in having no mind for laborious effort towards such petty social advancement as could alone be effected by a family so heavily handicapped as the once powerful d’Urbervilles were now.
也许半无意识的狂想曲是一神论背景下的拜物教话语；那些以户外自然的形式和力量为主要伴侣的女性，她们的灵魂中保留的远古祖先的异教幻想，远多于后来教导她们的种族的系统化宗教。然而，苔丝至少在她从小就口齿不清的老本尼迪克特语中找到了对她感情的近似表达。这就足够了。对开始独立生活这样轻微的初步表现感到如此高的满足感是德北菲尔德气质的一部分。苔丝真心希望能够直立行走，而她的父亲却没有这样做。但她与他相似，满足于眼前的小成就，不介意为这种微不足道的社会进步而付出艰苦的努力，而这种进步只能由像曾经强大的德伯维尔家族这样严重残疾的家庭才能实现。

There was, it might be said, the energy of her mother’s unexpended family, as well as the natural energy of Tess’s years, rekindled after the experience which had so overwhelmed her for the time. Let the truth be told—women do as a rule live through such humiliations, and regain their spirits, and again look about them with an interested eye. While there’s life there’s hope is a conviction not so entirely unknown to the ‘betrayed’ as some amiable theorists would have us believe.
可以说，她母亲未曾消耗的家庭的能量，以及苔丝岁月的自然能量，在经历了当时让她不知所措的经历后重新点燃。说实话——女人通常会经历这样的羞辱，然后恢复精神，并再次用感兴趣的眼光环顾四周。生命虽有希望，但“被背叛者”并不像一些和蔼可亲的理论家让我们相信的那样完全不知道这一信念。

Tess Durbeyfield, then, in good heart, and full of zest for life, descended the Egdon slopes lower and lower towards the dairy of her pilgrimage.
苔丝·德北菲尔德怀着一颗善良的心，对生活充满热情，沿着埃格顿山坡走下越来越低的山坡，朝她朝圣的奶牛场走去。

The marked difference, in the final particular, between the rival vales now showed itself. The secret of Blackmoor was best discovered from the heights around; to read aright the valley before her it was necessary to descend into its midst. When Tess had accomplished this feat she found herself to be standing on a carpeted level, which stretched to the east and west as far as the eye could reach.
在最后的细节中，竞争对手之间的显着差异现在已经显现出来。布莱克莫尔的秘密最好从周围的高处发现。为了正确地阅读她面前的山谷，就必须深入其中。当苔丝完成这一壮举时，她发现自己站在一块铺着地毯的平面上，向东和向西延伸到视线所及之处。

The river had stolen from the higher tracts and brought in particles to the vale all this horizontal land; and now, exhausted, aged, and attenuated, lay serpentining along through the midst of its former spoils.
河流从地势较高的地区偷走，将颗粒带入山谷中的所有水平土地；现在，精疲力竭、衰老、衰弱的它蜿蜒地躺在以前的战利品中间。

Not quite sure of her direction, Tess stood still upon the hemmed expanse of verdant flatness, like a fly on a billiard-table of indefinite length, and of no more consequence to the surroundings than that fly. The sole effect of her presence upon the placid valley so far had been to excite the mind of a solitary heron, which, after descending to the ground not far from her path, stood with neck erect, looking at her.
苔丝不太确定自己的方向，一动不动地站在那片青翠平坦的土地上，就像台球桌上的一只苍蝇，长度不定，对周围环境的影响并不比那只苍蝇更大。到目前为止，她出现在平静的山谷中的唯一效果就是激发了一只孤独的苍鹭的思想，这只苍鹭降落到离她的路径不远的地面后，竖起脖子站着，看着她。

Suddenly there arose from all parts of the lowland a prolonged and repeated call—‘Waow! waow! waow!’
突然，低地各处响起了一声绵长而重复的叫声——‘哇！哇！哇哦！’

From the furthest east to the furthest west the cries spread as if by contagion, accompanied in some cases by the barking of a dog. It was not the expression of the valley’s consciousness that beautiful Tess had arrived, but the ordinary announcement of milking-time—half-past four o’clock, when the dairymen set about getting in the cows.
从最东边到最西边，哭声像传染病一样蔓延开来，有时还伴有狗叫声。美丽的苔丝到来并不是山谷意识的表现，而是挤奶时间的普通宣告——四点半，挤奶工们开始挤奶牛的时候。

The red and white herd nearest at hand, which had been phlegmatically waiting for the call, now trooped towards the steading in the background, their great bags of milk swinging under them as they walked. Tess followed slowly in their rear, and entered the barton by the open gate through which they had entered before her. Long thatched sheds stretched round the enclosure, their slopes encrusted with vivid green moss, and their eaves supported by wooden posts rubbed to a glossy smoothness by the flanks of infinite cows and calves of bygone years, now passed to an oblivion almost inconceivable in its profundity. Between the post were ranged the milchers, each exhibiting herself at the present moment to a whimsical eye in the rear as a circle on two stalks, down the centre of which a switch moved pendulum-wise; while the sun, lowering itself behind this patient row, threw their shadows accurately inwards upon the wall. Thus it threw shadows of these obscure and homely figures every evening with as much care over each contour as if it had been the profile of a court beauty on a palace wall; copied them as diligently as it had copied Olympian shapes on marble façades long ago, or the outline of Alexander, Caesar, and the Pharaohs.
近在咫尺的红白相间的牛群一直在冷漠地等待召唤，现在成群结队地朝后面的马厩走去，大袋子的牛奶在它们行走时在身下摇摆。苔丝慢慢地跟在他们后面，从他们在她前面进来的那扇敞开的门进入了巴顿。长长的茅草棚在围场周围延伸，它们的斜坡上覆盖着鲜艳的绿色苔藓，它们的屋檐由木柱支撑，被过去岁月里无数的母牛和小牛的侧面摩擦得光滑光滑，现在已经被遗忘了，其深度几乎是不可想象的。立柱之间排列着挤奶工，每个挤奶工现在都在后面异想天开的眼睛面前展示自己，就像两根茎上的一个圆圈，在茎的中心有一个开关以钟摆的方式移动。而太阳则在这耐心的行列后面落下，将它们的影子准确地投向内侧的墙上。因此，每天晚上，它都会在每一个轮廓上投射出这些不起眼而朴素的人物的影子，就像宫墙上宫廷美人的侧影一样。就像很久以前在大理石外墙上复制奥林匹亚形状或亚历山大、凯撒和法老的轮廓一样勤奋地复制它们。

They were the less restful cows that were stalled. Those that would stand still of their own will were milked in the middle of the yard, where many of such better behaved ones stood waiting now—all prime milchers, such as were seldom seen out of this valley, and not always within it; nourished by the succulent feed which the water-meads supplied at this prime season of the year. Those of them that were spotted with white reflected the sunshine in dazzling brilliancy, and the polished brass knobs of their horns glittered with something of military display. Their large-veined udders hung ponderous as sandbags, the teats sticking out like the legs of a gipsy’s crock; and as each animal lingered for her turn to arrive the milk oozed forth and fell in drops to the ground.
它们是被圈养的不太安宁的奶牛。那些愿意站着不动的奶工在院子中央挤奶，许多表现较好的奶工现在就站在那里等待——全都是顶级挤奶工，比如在这个山谷中很少见到的人，而且并不总是在山谷里；一年中的这个黄金季节，水草提供了多汁的饲料，为它们提供了营养。它们身上有白色斑点，在阳光下反射出耀眼的光彩，角上抛光的黄铜旋钮闪闪发光，散发着军事气息。她们的乳房血管粗大，像沙袋一样笨重地悬挂着，奶头像吉普赛瓦罐的腿一样伸出来。当每只动物都在等待轮到时，牛奶就会渗出，滴落到地上。

XVII
十七

The dairymaids and men had flocked down from their cottages and out of the dairy-house with the arrival of the cows from the meads; the maids walking in pattens, not on account of the weather, but to keep their shoes above the mulch of the barton. Each girl sat down on her three-legged stool, her face sideways, her right cheek resting against the cow, and looked musingly along the animal’s flank at Tess as she approached. The male milkers, with hat-brims turned down, resting flat on their foreheads and gazing on the ground, did not observe her.
随着来自草地的奶牛的到来，挤奶女工和男人们纷纷从小屋和奶牛场涌出。女仆们穿着帕滕斯走路，不是因为天气，而是为了让鞋子露出巴顿的覆盖物。每个女孩都坐在她的三脚凳上，脸侧向一边，右脸靠在牛身上，当苔丝走近时，她沿着牛的侧腹若有所思地看着她。挤奶工们帽子帽檐朝下，额头平放在地上，眼睛盯着地面，没有注意到她。

One of these was a sturdy middle-aged man—whose long white ‘pinner’ was somewhat finer and cleaner than the wraps of the others, and whose jacket underneath had a presentable marketing aspect—the master-dairyman, of whom she was in quest, his double character as a working milker and butter maker here during six days, and on the seventh as a man in shining broad-cloth in his family pew at church, being so marked as to have inspired a rhyme:
其中一个是一位身材魁梧的中年男子——他的长长的白色“领针”比其他人的裹布更精致、更干净，他里面的夹克有一种像样的营销风格——她正在寻找的奶牛大师，他的双重性格在六天里是一名挤奶工和黄油制造商，第七天则是穿着闪亮的宽布衣服坐在教堂的家庭长椅上，如此明显，以至于激发了一首押韵：

Dairyman Dick
奶牛场迪克

All the week:—
整周：—

On Sundays Mister Richard Crick.
周日理查德·克里克先生。

Seeing Tess standing at gaze he went across to her.
看到苔丝站在那里注视着他，他走到她身边。

The majority of dairymen have a cross manner at milking time, but it happened that Mr Crick was glad to get a new hand—for the days were busy ones now—and he received her warmly; inquiring for her mother and the rest of the family—(though this as a matter of form merely, for in reality he had not been aware of Mrs Durbeyfield’s existence till apprised of the fact by a brief business-letter about Tess).
大多数奶牛场老板在挤奶时都会表现得脾气暴躁，但碰巧克里克先生很高兴得到一个新帮手——因为现在日子很忙——他热情地接待了她；询问她母亲和其他家庭成员的情况——（尽管这只是一个形式问题，因为事实上，他直到通过一封关于苔丝的简短商业信函才知道德北菲尔德夫人的存在）。

‘Oh—ay, as a lad I knowed your part o’ the country very well,’ he said terminatively. ‘Though I’ve never been there since. And a aged woman of ninety that use to live nigh here, but is dead and gone long ago, told me that a family of some such name as yours in Blackmoor Vale came originally from these parts, and that ‘twere a old ancient race that had all but perished off the earth—though the new generations didn’t know it. But, Lord, I took no notice of the old woman’s ramblings, not I.’
“哦——哎呀，作为一个小伙子，我非常了解你所在的国家，”他最后说道。 “虽然从那以后我就再也没有去过那里。一位九十岁的老妇人曾经住在这附近，但很久以前就去世了，她告诉我，布莱克莫尔谷有一个像你这样的名字的家庭最初来自这些地区，那是一个古老的种族，几乎全部从地球上消失了——尽管新一代人并不知道这一点。但是，主啊，我没有注意到老妇人的胡言乱语，不是我自己。

‘Oh no—it is nothing,’ said Tess.
“哦，不——没什么，”苔丝说。

Then the talk was of business only.
然后谈话就只剩下生意了。

‘You can milk ‘em clean, my maidy? I don’t want my cows going azew at this time o’ year.’
“你能把它们挤干净吗，我的女仆？我不想让我的奶牛在每年的这个时候发呆。

She reassured him on that point, and he surveyed her up and down. She had been staying indoors a good deal, and her complexion had grown delicate.
她在这一点上向他保证，他上下打量着她。她长时间待在室内，脸色变得娇嫩。

‘Quite sure you can stand it? ‘Tis comfortable enough here for rough folk; but we don’t live in a cowcumber frame.’
‘你确定你能忍受吗？ “对于粗鲁的人来说，这里已经足够舒适了；但我们并不生活在一个牛角框架里。”

She declared that she could stand it, and her zest and willingness seemed to win him over.
她宣称她可以忍受，她的热情和意愿似乎赢得了他的支持。

‘Well, I suppose you’ll want a dish o’ tay, or victuals of some sort, hey? Not yet? Well, do as ye like about it. But faith, if ‘twas I, I should be as dry as a kex wi’ travelling so far.’
“好吧，我想你会想要一份泰式菜肴，或者某种食物，嘿？还没有？好吧，你喜欢怎么做就怎么做吧。但我相信，如果‘是我的话’，我应该会像一个 kex 一样干燥，旅行这么远。”

‘I’ll begin milking now, to get my hand in,’ said Tess.
“我现在就开始挤奶，把手伸进去，”苔丝说。

She drank a little milk as temporary refreshment—to the surprise—indeed, slight contempt—of Dairyman Crick, to whose mind it had apparently never occurred that milk was good as a beverage.
她喝了一点牛奶作为暂时的提神——这让奶牛场老板克里克感到惊讶——实际上是有点蔑视，在克里克看来，牛奶显然从来没有想过牛奶是一种很好的饮料。

‘Oh, if ye can swaller that, be it so,’ he said indifferently, while holding up the pail that she sipped from. ‘‘Tis what I hain’t touched for years—not I. Rot the stuff; it would lie in my innerds like lead. You can try your hand upon she,’ he pursued, nodding to the nearest cow. ‘Not but what she do milk rather hard. We’ve hard ones and we’ve easy ones, like other folks. However, you’ll find out that soon enough.’
“哦，如果你能咽下这个，那就这样吧，”他冷漠地说，同时举起了她喝的水桶。 “这就是我多年来没有碰过的东西——不是我。把这些东西腐烂；它会像铅一样埋藏在我的内心。你可以试试她，”他继续说道，并向最近的一头牛点点头。 “不是，但她挤奶的时候相当辛苦。”和其他人一样，我们有困难的事情，也有容易的事情。不过，你很快就会发现这一点。

When Tess had changed her bonnet for a hood, and was really on her stool under the cow, and the milk was squirting from her fists into the pail, she appeared to feel that she really had laid a new foundation for her future. The conviction bred serenity, her pulse slowed, and she was able to look about her.
当苔丝把帽子换成了头巾，真正坐在牛下面的凳子上，牛奶从她的拳头里喷到桶里时，她似乎觉得自己真的为自己的未来奠定了新的基础。这种信念使她平静下来，脉搏减慢，她能够环顾四周。

The milkers formed quite a little battalion of men and maids, the men operating on the hard-teated animals, the maids on the kindlier natures. It was a large dairy. There were nearly a hundred milchers under Crick’s management, all told; and of the herd the master-dairyman milked six or eight with his own hands, unless away from home. These were the cows that milked hardest of all; for his journey-milkmen being more or less casually hired, he would not entrust this half-dozen to their treatment, lest, from indifference, they should not milk them fully; nor to the maids, lest they should fail in the same way for lack of finger-grip; with the result that in course of time the cows would ‘go azew’—that is, dry up. It was not the loss for the moment that made slack milking so serious, but that with the decline of demand there came decline, and ultimately cessation, of supply.
挤奶工们组成了一个由男人和女仆组成的小营，男人们负责饲养坚硬的牲畜，女仆们负责善良的动物。那是一家大型乳品厂。克里克管理下的牛奶厂总共有近一百家。奶牛场大师亲手从牛群中挤奶六到八只，除非离家在外。这些奶牛挤奶最辛苦。因为他的旅途送奶工或多或少都是临时雇佣的，他不会把这六个人托付给他们，以免他们因为冷漠而无法充分挤奶。也不对女仆说，以免她们因缺乏手指的抓握而以同样的方式失败。结果，随着时间的推移，奶牛会“变得 azew”，即干涸。造成挤奶不足的原因并不是暂时的损失，而是随着需求的下降，供应也随之减少，并最终停止。

After Tess had settled down to her cow there was for a time no talk in the barton, and not a sound interfered with the purr of the milk-jets into the numerous pails, except a momentary exclamation to one or other of the beasts requesting her to turn round or stand still. The only movements were those of the milkers’ hands up and down, and the swing of the cows’ tails. Thus they all worked on, encompassed by the vast flat mead which extended to either slope of the valley—a level landscape compounded of old landscapes long forgotten, and, no doubt, differing in character very greatly from the landscape they composed now.
苔丝在她的奶牛身边安顿下来后，巴顿里有一段时间没有说话，没有任何声音干扰牛奶喷射到无数桶中的咕噜声，除了向一只或另一只请求她的野兽发出短暂的感叹。转身或站立不动。唯一的动作就是挤奶工的手上下移动，以及牛尾巴的摆动。就这样，他们都在工作，周围是一片广阔平坦的草地，一直延伸到山谷的两边——这是一片由早已被遗忘的古老风景组成的平坦景观，毫无疑问，在性质上与他们现在所组成的景观有很大不同。

‘To my thinking,’ said the dairyman, rising suddenly from a cow he had just finished off, snatching up his three-legged stool in one hand and the pail in the other, and moving on to the next hard-yielder in his vicinity, ‘to my thinking, the cows don’t gie down their milk to-day as usual. Upon my life, if Winker do begin keeping back like this, she’ll not be worth going under by midsummer.’
“据我所知，”奶牛场老板说，他突然从一头刚吃完的奶牛身上站起来，一手抓起他的三足凳子，另一只手抓起桶，朝附近的下一个硬产者走去。 ”，“据我所知，奶牛今天没有像往常一样喝下牛奶。在我的一生中，如果温克真的开始像这样退缩，那么到仲夏节她就不值得被埋没了。

‘‘Tis because there’s a new hand come among us,’ said Jonathan Kail. ‘I’ve noticed such things afore.’
“这是因为我们中间来了一位新人，”乔纳森·凯尔说。 “我以前就注意到过这样的事情。”

‘To be sure. It may be so. I didn’t think o’t.’
'为了确定。也许是这样。我没想到。

‘I’ve been told that it goes up into their horns at such times,’ said a dairymaid.
“有人告诉我，这种时候它会升到它们的角上，”一位挤奶女工说。

‘Well, as to going up into their horns,’ replied Dairyman Crick dubiously, as though even witchcraft might be limited by anatomical possibilities, ‘I couldn’t say; I certainly could not. But as nott cows will keep it back as well as the horned ones, I don’t quite agree to it. Do ye know that riddle about the nott cows, Jonathan? Why do nott cows give less milk in a year than horned?’
“好吧，至于进入它们的角，”奶牛场老板克里克半信半疑地回答道，就好像巫术也可能受到解剖学可能性的限制一样，“我不能说；我当然不能。但由于非特牛会像有角的牛一样保留它，所以我不太同意它。乔纳森，你知道关于诺特牛的谜语吗？为什么奶牛一年的产奶量不比有角的奶牛少呢？

‘I don’t!’ interposed the milkmaid, ‘Why do they?’
“我不这么认为！”挤奶女工插嘴道，“他们为什么这么做呢？”

‘Because there bain’t so many of ‘em,’ said the dairyman. ‘Howsomever, these gam’sters do certainly keep back their milk to-day. Folks, we must lift up a stave or two—that’s the only cure for’t.’
“因为它们没有那么多，”奶牛场老板说。 “不过，这些赌徒今天确实保留了他们的牛奶。伙计们，我们必须举起一两根棍子——这是唯一的治疗方法。”

Songs were often resorted to in dairies hereabout as an enticement to the cows when they showed signs of withholding their usual yield; and the band of milkers at this request burst into melody—in purely business-like tones, it is true, and with no great spontaneity; the result, according to their own belief, being a decided improvement during the song’s continuance. When they had gone through fourteen or fifteen verses of a cheerful ballad about a murderer who was afraid to go to bed in the dark because he saw certain brimstone flames around him, one of the male milkers said—
当奶牛表现出抑制正常产量的迹象时，这里的奶牛场经常用歌曲来诱惑奶牛。挤奶工的乐队应了这个要求，突然奏起了旋律——确实是用纯粹的公务音调，而且没有什么太大的自发性。根据他们自己的信念，结果是在歌曲的延续过程中取得了明显的进步。当他们听完一首欢快的民谣的十四或十五节时，其中一个男挤奶工说：一个杀人犯不敢在黑暗中上床睡觉，因为他看到周围有硫磺的火焰。

‘I wish singing on the stoop didn’t use up so much of a man’s wind! You should get your harp, sir; not but what a fiddle is best.’
“我希望在门廊上唱歌不会消耗那么多男人的气！先生，你应该拿上你的竖琴；不是，而是小提琴最好。”

Tess, who had given ear to this, thought the words were addressed to the dairyman, but she was wrong. A reply, in the shape of ‘Why?’ came as it were out of the belly of a dun cow in the stalls; it had been spoken by a milker behind the animal, whom she had not hitherto perceived.
苔丝听到了这句话，以为这句话是对奶牛场老板说的，但她错了。 “为什么？”的回答仿佛是从牛栏里一头暗褐色母牛的肚子里发出来的。这是奶牛后面的一个挤奶工说的，但她迄今为止还没有认出他来。

‘Oh yes; there’s nothing like a fiddle,’ said the dairyman. ‘Though I do think that bulls are more moved by a tune than cows—at least that’s my experience. Once there was an old aged man over at Mellstock—William Dewy by name—one of the family that used to do a good deal of business as tranters over there—Jonathan, do ye mind?—I knowed the man by sight as well as I know my own brother, in a manner of speaking. Well, this man was a coming home along from a wedding, where he had been playing his fiddle, one fine moonlight night, and for shortness’ sake he took a cut across Forty-acres, a field lying that way, where a bull was out to grass. The bull seed William, and took after him, horns aground, begad; and though William runned his best, and hadn’t MUCH drink in him (considering ‘twas a wedding, and the folks well off), he found he’d never reach the fence and get over in time to save himself. Well, as a last thought, he pulled out his fiddle as he runned, and struck up a jig, turning to the bull, and backing towards the corner. The bull softened down, and stood still, looking hard at William Dewy, who fiddled on and on; till a sort of a smile stole over the bull’s face. But no sooner did William stop his playing and turn to get over hedge than the bull would stop his smiling and lower his horns towards the seat of William’s breeches. Well, William had to turn about and play on, willy-nilly; and ‘twas only three o’clock in the world, and ‘a knowed that nobody would come that way for hours, and he so leery and tired that ‘a didn’t know what to do. When he had scraped till about four o’clock he felt that he verily would have to give over soon, and he said to himself, ‘There’s only this last tune between me and eternal welfare! Heaven save me, or I’m a done man.’ Well, then he called to mind how he’d seen the cattle kneel o’ Christmas Eves in the dead o’ night. It was not Christmas Eve then, but it came into his head to play a trick upon the bull. So he broke into the ‘Tivity Hymm, just as at Christmas carol-singing; when, lo and behold, down went the bull on his bended knees, in his ignorance, just as if ‘twere the true ‘Tivity night and hour. As soon as his horned friend were down, William turned, clinked off like a long-dog, and jumped safe over hedge, before the praying bull had got on his feet again to take after him. William used to say that he’d seen a man look a fool a good many times, but never such a fool as that bull looked when he found his pious feelings had been played upon, and ‘twas not Christmas Eve. ... Yes, William Dewy, that was the man’s name; and I can tell you to a foot where’s he a-lying in Mellstock Churchyard at this very moment—just between the second yew-tree and the north aisle.’
'哦是的;没有什么比小提琴更好的了，”奶牛场老板说。 “虽然我确实认为公牛比奶牛更容易被音乐所感动——至少这是我的经验。从前，梅尔斯托克有一位老人，名叫威廉·杜伊，是过去在那里做很多生意的家族之一，乔纳森，你介意吗？从某种意义上说，我了解我自己的兄弟。好吧，这个人刚从一场婚礼回家，在一个美好的月光之夜，他一直在拉小提琴，为了简短起见，他在四十英亩的土地上开辟了一条田地，那块田地就在那边，那里有一头公牛。到草地上。公牛种子威廉，追随他，角搁浅，乞讨；尽管威廉竭尽全力，也没有喝太多酒（考虑到这是一场婚礼，人们都很富裕），但他发现自己永远无法到达栅栏并及时越过以拯救自己。好吧，作为最后一个念头，他一边跑一边掏出小提琴，弹起一支吉格舞，转向公牛，然后退到街角。公牛软了下来，一动不动地站着，死死地盯着威廉·杜伊，后者不停地拨弄着琴弦。直到公牛的脸上露出一丝微笑。但威廉一停止玩耍，转身越过树篱，公牛就会停止微笑，将角低向威廉的马裤座位。好吧，威廉不得不转身继续玩，不管愿意与否。当时才凌晨三点，他知道几个小时内都没有人会来这里，他如此警惕和疲惫，以至于“他不知道该怎么办”。当他熬到四点钟左右时，他觉得自己真的很快就要放弃了，他对自己说：“我和永恒的幸福之间就只有这最后的曲调了！”上帝保佑我，否则我就完蛋了。’好吧，然后他想起了他是如何在平安夜看到牛在夜深人静时跪下的。那时还不是平安夜，但他却想到要捉弄一下公牛。于是他开始唱起《Tivity Hymm》，就像圣诞颂歌一样；就在这时，你瞧，那头公牛在他的无知中双膝跪地，仿佛“那是真正的‘活动’夜晚和时刻”。他的长角朋友一倒下，威廉就转身，像一只长狗一样叮当作响，安全地跳过树篱，然后祈祷的公牛再次站起来追赶他。威廉常说，他曾多次见过一个人看起来像个傻瓜，但当他发现自己的虔诚感情被利用时，从来没有像那头公牛那样愚蠢，而且“这不是圣诞夜”。 ……是的，威廉·杜伊，那就是这个人的名字；我可以告诉你此刻他躺在梅尔斯托克墓地的什么地方——就在第二棵紫杉树和北过道之间。’

‘It’s a curious story; it carries us back to medieval times, when faith was a living thing!’
“这是一个奇怪的故事；它把我们带回到中世纪，那时信仰是有生命的！”

The remark, singular for a dairy-yard, was murmured by the voice behind the dun cow; but as nobody understood the reference, no notice was taken, except that the narrator seemed to think it might imply scepticism as to his tale.
这句话对于奶牛场来说是很罕见的，是由暗褐色奶牛背后的声音低声说出来的。但由于没有人理解这个提法，所以没有人注意到，除了叙述者似乎认为这可能意味着对他的故事的怀疑。

‘Well, ‘tis quite true, sir, whether or no. I knowed the man well.’
“嗯，这确实是事实，先生，无论是否如此。我很了解这个人。

‘Oh yes; I have no doubt of it,’ said the person behind the dun cow.
'哦是的;我对此毫不怀疑。”黄褐色牛背后的人说道。

Tess’s attention was thus attracted to the dairyman’s interlocutor, of whom she could see but the merest patch, owing to his burying his head so persistently in the flank of the milcher. She could not understand why he should be addressed as ‘sir’ even by the dairyman himself. But no explanation was discernible; he remained under the cow long enough to have milked three, uttering a private ejaculation now and then, as if he could not get on.
苔丝的注意力就这样被挤奶工的对话者吸引了，她只能看到他的一小部分，因为他总是把头埋在挤奶工的侧面。她不明白为什么即使是奶牛场老板本人也要称呼他为“先生”。但没有任何明显的解释；他在牛下面待了很长时间，足以挤完三头奶，时不时地私下里发出一声精液，好像他无法继续前进。

‘Take it gentle, sir; take it gentle,’ said the dairyman. ‘‘Tis knack, not strength, that does it.’
“请温柔点，先生；放轻松点，”奶牛场老板说。 “能做到这一点的是技巧，而不是力量。”

‘So I find,’ said the other, standing up at last and stretching his arms. ‘I think I have finished her, however, though she made my fingers ache.’
“我也是这么认为的，”另一个说着，终于站了起来，伸展了双臂。 “不过，我想我已经完成了她，尽管她让我的手指疼痛。”

Tess could then see him at full length. He wore the ordinary white pinner and leather leggings of a dairy-farmer when milking, and his boots were clogged with the mulch of the yard; but this was all his local livery. Beneath it was something educated, reserved, subtle, sad, differing.
苔丝就能看到他的全貌了。挤奶时，他穿着奶农的普通白色紧身衣和皮裤，他的靴子被院子里的覆盖物堵塞了。但这都是他当地的制服。在它的下面是一些有教养的、保守的、微妙的、悲伤的、与众不同的东西。

But the details of his aspect were temporarily thrust aside by the discovery that he was one whom she had seen before. Such vicissitudes had Tess passed through since that time that for a moment she could not remember where she had met him; and then it flashed upon her that he was the pedestrian who had joined in the club-dance at Marlott—the passing stranger who had come she knew not whence, had danced with others but not with her, and slightingly left her, and gone on his way with his friends.
但由于发现他是她以前见过的人，他的外貌细节暂时被抛在了一边。从那时起，苔丝经历了如此多的沧桑，以至于她一时记不起在哪里见过他。然后她突然意识到，他就是参加马洛特俱乐部舞会的那个行人——那个路过的陌生人，她不知道从哪里来，和其他人一起跳舞，但没有和她一起跳舞，然后轻轻地离开了她，继续前行。他与朋友相处的方式。

The flood of memories brought back by this revival of an incident anterior to her troubles produced a momentary dismay lest, recognizing her also, he should by some means discover her story. But it passed away when she found no sign of remembrance in him. She saw by degrees that since their first and only encounter his mobile face had grown more thoughtful, and had acquired a young man’s shapely moustache and beard—the latter of the palest straw colour where it began upon his cheeks, and deepening to a warm brown farther from its root. Under his linen milking-pinner he wore a dark velveteen jacket, cord breeches and gaiters, and a starched white shirt. Without the milking-gear nobody could have guessed what he was. He might with equal probability have been an eccentric landowner or a gentlemanly ploughman. That he was but a novice at dairy work she had realized in a moment, from the time he had spent upon the milking of one cow.
她遇到麻烦之前发生的一件事的重现，带回了大量的记忆，产生了短暂的沮丧，生怕他也认识了她，会以某种方式发现她的故事。但当她在他身上找不到任何记忆的迹象时，一切就消失了。她逐渐发现，自从他们第一次也是唯一一次见面以来，他那张灵活的脸变得更加深思熟虑，并且长出了年轻人形状的小胡子和胡须——后者从他的脸颊开始是最浅的稻草色，逐渐加深为温暖的棕色。离它的根越来越远。他的亚麻挤奶帽下面穿着一件深色平绒夹克、灯芯裤和绑腿，以及一件浆过的白衬衫。如果没有挤奶设备，没有人能猜出他是谁。他可能是一个古怪的地主，也可能是一个绅士的农夫。从他为一头奶牛挤奶开始，她立刻就意识到他只是乳制品工作的新手。

Meanwhile many of the milkmaids had said to one another of the newcomer, ‘How pretty she is!’ with something of real generosity and admiration, though with a half hope that the auditors would qualify the assertion—which, strictly speaking, they might have done, prettiness being an inexact definition of what struck the eye in Tess. When the milking was finished for the evening they straggled indoors, where Mrs Crick, the dairyman’s wife—who was too respectable to go out milking herself, and wore a hot stuff gown in warm weather because the dairymaids wore prints—was giving an eye to the leads and things.
与此同时，许多挤奶女工都带着某种真正的慷慨和钦佩之情互相对新来的人说：“她多漂亮啊！”尽管他们还抱有一丝希望，希望审计员能够证实这一说法——严格来说，他们可能已经证实了这一点。完成了，漂亮对于苔丝来说是一个不准确的定义。晚上挤奶结束后，他们在室内闲逛，奶牛场老板的妻子克里克太太——她太受人尊敬了，不会自己出去挤奶，在温暖的天气里，因为挤奶女工都穿着印花衣服，所以她在温暖的天气里穿着一件热料长袍——正在留意着奶牛场的情况。线索和事情。

Only two or three of the maids, Tess learnt, slept in the dairy-house besides herself, most of the helpers going to their homes. She saw nothing at supper-time of the superior milker who had commented on the story, and asked no questions about him, the remainder of the evening being occupied in arranging her place in the bed-chamber. It was a large room over the milk-house, some thirty feet long; the sleeping-cots of the other three indoor milkmaids being in the same apartment. They were blooming young women, and, except one, rather older than herself. By bedtime Tess was thoroughly tired, and fell asleep immediately.
苔丝了解到，除了她自己之外，只有两三个女仆睡在奶牛场里，大多数帮工都回家了。晚饭时间，她没有看到对这个故事发表评论的高级挤奶工，也没有问任何关于他的问题，晚上剩下的时间都在安排她在卧室里的位置。这是牛奶房上方的一个大房间，大约三十英尺长。其他三个室内挤奶女工的睡床就在同一间公寓里。她们都是风华正茂的年轻女性，而且，除了一位之外，她们都比她年长。到了睡觉的时候，苔丝已经彻底累了，很快就睡着了。

But one of the girls, who occupied an adjoining bed, was more wakeful than Tess, and would insist upon relating to the latter various particulars of the homestead into which she had just entered. The girl’s whispered words mingled with the shades, and, to Tess’s drowsy mind, they seemed to be generated by the darkness in which they floated.
但其中一个住在隔壁床上的女孩比苔丝更清醒，并且坚持要向后者讲述她刚刚进入的宅基地的各种细节。女孩的低语与阴影混杂在一起，在苔丝昏昏欲睡的头脑中，它们似乎是由它们漂浮在其中的黑暗产生的。

‘Mr Angel Clare—he that is learning milking, and that plays the harp—never says much to us. He is a pa’son’s son, and is too much taken up wi’ his own thoughts to notice girls. He is the dairyman’s pupil—learning farming in all its branches. He has learnt sheep-farming at another place, and he’s now mastering dairy-work.... Yes, he is quite the gentleman-born. His father is the Reverent Mr Clare at Emminster—a good many miles from here.’
“安吉尔·克莱尔先生——他正在学习挤奶，还会弹竖琴——从来不跟我们说太多话。他是一个牧师的儿子，太专注于自己的想法而忽视了女孩。他是奶牛场老板的学生，在各个部门学习农业。他在外地学会了养羊，现在正在掌握奶牛工作……是的，他真是绅士出身。他的父亲是埃明斯特的尊敬的克莱尔先生——距离这里有很多英里。

‘Oh—I have heard of him,’ said her companion, now awake. ‘A very earnest clergyman, is he not?’
“哦——我听说过他，”她的同伴现在醒了，说道。 “他是一位非常热心的牧师，不是吗？”

‘Yes—that he is—the earnestest man in all Wessex, they say—the last of the old Low Church sort, they tell me—for all about here be what they call High. All his sons, except our Mr Clare, be made pa’sons too.’
“是的——他是——他们说，他是整个威塞克斯最热心的人——他们告诉我，他是旧低等教会中的最后一个——因为这里的一切都是他们所谓的高教。”他所有的儿子，除了我们的克莱尔先生，也都被任命为牧师。

Tess had not at this hour the curiosity to ask why the present Mr Clare was not made a parson like his brethren, and gradually fell asleep again, the words of her informant coming to her along with the smell of the cheeses in the adjoining cheeseloft, and the measured dripping of the whey from the wrings downstairs.
苔丝此时并没有好奇心去问为什么现在的克莱尔先生不像他的弟兄们那样被任命为牧师，她渐渐地又睡着了，她的线人的话伴随着隔壁奶酪阁楼里奶酪的气味而来，楼下的绞肉机里滴下的乳清也有规律地滴落。

XVIII
十八

Angel Clare rises out of the past not altogether as a distinct figure, but as an appreciative voice, a long regard of fixed, abstracted eyes, and a mobility of mouth somewhat too small and delicately lined for a man’s, though with an unexpectedly firm close of the lower lip now and then; enough to do away with any inference of indecision. Nevertheless, something nebulous, preoccupied, vague, in his bearing and regard, marked him as one who probably had no very definite aim or concern about his material future. Yet as a lad people had said of him that he was one who might do anything if he tried.
安吉尔·克莱尔从过去中脱颖而出，并不完全是一个独特的人物，而是一种欣赏的声音，一双凝视着、心不在焉的眼睛，以及一张对男人来说有点小而精致的嘴唇，尽管他的嘴巴出人意料地坚定。时不时的下唇；足以消除任何犹豫不决的推论。然而，在他的举止和态度中，有一种模糊的、全神贯注的、模糊的感觉，表明他可能对自己的物质未来没有非常明确的目标或关心。然而，当他还是个小伙子时，人们都说他是一个只要努力就可以做任何事情的人。

He was the youngest son of his father, a poor parson at the other end of the county, and had arrived at Talbothays Dairy as a six months’ pupil, after going the round of some other farms, his object being to acquire a practical skill in the various processes of farming, with a view either to the Colonies or the tenure of a home-farm, as circumstances might decide.
他是他父亲最小的儿子，是县城另一端的一名贫穷牧师，在参观了其他一些农场后，来到塔尔博塞斯乳品厂当了六个月的学生，他的目标是获得一项实用技能在农业的各个过程中，要么是殖民地，要么是家庭农场的保有权，视情况而定。

His entry into the ranks of the agriculturists and breeders was a step in the young man’s career which had been anticipated neither by himself nor by others.
进入农学家和饲养员的行列是这个年轻人职业生涯中的一步，这是他本人和其他人都没有预料到的。

Mr Clare the elder, whose first wife had died and left him a daughter, married a second late in life. This lady had somewhat unexpectedly brought him three sons, so that between Angel, the youngest, and his father the Vicar there seemed to be almost a missing generation. Of these boys the aforesaid Angel, the child of his old age, was the only son who had not taken a University degree, though he was the single one of them whose early promise might have done full justice to an academical training.
老克莱尔先生的第一任妻子去世了，留下了一个女儿，后来又娶了第二任妻子。这位女士有些出乎意料地给他带来了三个儿子，所以最小的安吉尔和他的父亲牧师之间似乎几乎缺失了一代。在这些男孩中，上述安吉尔是他晚年生下的孩子，是唯一一个没有获得大学学位的儿子，尽管他是他们中唯一一个早年许下的诺言可能完全公正地接受学术培训的人。

Some two or three years before Angel’s appearance at the Marlott dance, on a day when he had left school and was pursuing his studies at home, a parcel came to the Vicarage from the local bookseller’s, directed to the Reverend James Clare. The Vicar having opened it and found it to contain a book, read a few pages; whereupon he jumped up from his seat and went straight to the shop with the book under his arm.
大约两三年前，安吉尔出现在马洛特舞会上，那天他离开学校，在家继续学业，一个包裹从当地书店寄到牧师住宅，寄给詹姆斯·克莱尔牧师。牧师打开它，发现里面有一本书，读了几页。于是他从座位上跳了起来，腋下夹着书直奔商店而去。

‘Why has this been sent to my house?’ he asked peremptorily, holding up the volume.
“为什么这本书会送到我家？”他举起书本，专横地问道。

‘It was ordered, sir.’
“这是命令，先生。”

‘Not by me, or any one belonging to me, I am happy to say.’
“我很高兴地说，这不是我做的，也不是我的任何人做的。”

The shopkeeper looked into his order-book.
店主查看了他的订单簿。

‘Oh, it has been misdirected, sir,’ he said. ‘It was ordered by Mr Angel Clare, and should have been sent to him.’
“哦，它被误导了，先生，”他说。 “这是安吉尔·克莱尔先生订购的，应该寄给他。”

Mr Clare winced as if he had been struck. He went home pale and dejected, and called Angel into his study.
克莱尔先生皱起眉头，仿佛受到了打击。他脸色苍白、沮丧地回到家，把安吉尔叫进书房。

‘Look into this book, my boy,’ he said. ‘What do you know about it?’
“看看这本书，我的孩子，”他说。 “你对此了解多少？”

‘I ordered it,’ said Angel simply.
“我订的。”安吉尔简单地说。

‘What for?’
'做什么的？'

‘To read.’
'读书。'

‘How can you think of reading it?’
“你怎么会想到读它呢？”

‘How can I? Why—it is a system of philosophy. There is no more moral, or even religious, work published.’
'我怎么能够？为什么——这是一个哲学体系。没有更多的道德甚至宗教作品出版。

‘Yes—moral enough; I don’t deny that. But religious!—and for YOU, who intend to be a minister of the Gospel!’
“是的——足够道德；我不否认这一点。但是宗教！——对于那些想要成为福音牧师的你来说！”

‘Since you have alluded to the matter, father,’ said the son, with anxious thought upon his face, ‘I should like to say, once for all, that I should prefer not to take Orders. I fear I could not conscientiously do so. I love the Church as one loves a parent. I shall always have the warmest affection for her. There is no institution for whose history I have a deeper admiration; but I cannot honestly be ordained her minister, as my brothers are, while she refuses to liberate her mind from an untenable redemptive theolatry.’
“既然你提到了这件事，父亲，”儿子脸上带着焦急的思绪说道，“我想说，我宁愿不接受命令。”我担心我不能认真地这样做。我爱教会，就像爱父母一样。我将永远对她怀有最热烈的感情。没有哪个机构的历史让我更加钦佩。但当她拒绝将自己的思想从站不住脚的救赎理论中解放出来时，我就不能像我的兄弟们那样被诚实地任命为她的牧师。

It had never occurred to the straightforward and simple-minded Vicar that one of his own flesh and blood could come to this! He was stultified, shocked, paralysed. And if Angel were not going to enter the Church, what was the use of sending him to Cambridge? The University as a step to anything but ordination seemed, to this man of fixed ideas, a preface without a volume. He was a man not merely religious, but devout; a firm believer—not as the phrase is now elusively construed by theological thimble-riggers in the Church and out of it, but in the old and ardent sense of the Evangelical school: one who could
耿直单纯的牧师怎么也没有想到，自己的亲骨肉竟然会走到这一步！他感到呆滞、震惊、瘫痪。如果安吉尔不打算进入教会，送他去剑桥有什么用呢？对于这个思想固定的人来说，大学作为除了任命之外的任何一步，似乎是一本没有卷的序言。他不仅是一个虔诚的人，而且是一个虔诚的人。坚定的信徒——不是像教会内外的神学顶针操纵者现在对这句话的难以捉摸的解释，而是按照福音派学校古老而热情的含义：一个能够

 Indeed opine
确实认为

That the Eternal and Divine
那永恒和神圣的

Did, eighteen centuries ago
十八世纪前确实如此

In very truth...
事实上...

Angel’s father tried argument, persuasion, entreaty.
安吉尔的父亲尝试过争论、劝说、恳求。

‘No, father; I cannot underwrite Article Four (leave alone the rest), taking it ‘in the literal and grammatical sense’ as required by the Declaration; and, therefore, I can’t be a parson in the present state of affairs,’ said Angel. ‘My whole instinct in matters of religion is towards reconstruction; to quote your favorite Epistle to the Hebrews, ‘the removing of those things that are shaken, as of things that are made, that those things which cannot be shaken may remain.’’
“不，父亲；我不能赞同第四条（更不用说其余部分），按照《宣言》的要求“从字面和语法意义上”理解它；因此，在目前的情况下，我不能成为一名牧师。”安吉尔说道。 “我在宗教问题上的全部本能是重建；引用你最喜欢的希伯来书，“那些被震动的东西，如被造的东西，要被除去，使那些不能震动的东西可以留下来。”

His father grieved so deeply that it made Angel quite ill to see him.
他的父亲悲痛欲绝，安吉尔一见到他就很难受。

‘What is the good of your mother and me economizing and stinting ourselves to give you a University education, if it is not to be used for the honour and glory of God?’ his father repeated.
“如果不是为了上帝的荣誉和荣耀，你母亲和我省吃俭用让你接受大学教育有什么好处呢？”他的父亲重复道。

‘Why, that it may be used for the honour and glory of man, father.’
“哎呀，它可以用来维护人类的荣誉和荣耀，父亲。”

Perhaps if Angel had persevered he might have gone to Cambridge like his brothers. But the Vicar’s view of that seat of learning as a stepping-stone to Orders alone was quite a family tradition; and so rooted was the idea in his mind that perseverance began to appear to the sensitive son akin to an intent to misappropriate a trust, and wrong the pious heads of the household, who had been and were, as his father had hinted, compelled to exercise much thrift to carry out this uniform plan of education for the three young men.
也许如果安吉尔坚持下去，他可能会像他的兄弟们一样去剑桥。但牧师认为学习场所只是通向教团的垫脚石，这是一种家族传统。这种想法在他的脑海中根深蒂固，以至于对敏感的儿子来说，坚持不懈开始出现类似于意图挪用信托的意图，并冤枉了虔诚的一家之主，正如他父亲所暗示的那样，他们过去和现在都被迫这样做非常节俭地执行这三个年轻人的统一教育计划。

‘I will do without Cambridge,’ said Angel at last. ‘I feel that I have no right to go there in the circumstances.’
“我不需要剑桥，”安吉尔最后说道。 “我觉得在这种情况下我没有权利去那里。”

The effects of this decisive debate were not long in showing themselves. He spent years and years in desultory studies, undertakings, and meditations; he began to evince considerable indifference to social forms and observances. The material distinctions of rank and wealth he increasingly despised. Even the ‘good old family’ (to use a favourite phrase of a late local worthy) had no aroma for him unless there were good new resolutions in its representatives. As a balance to these austerities, when he went to live in London to see what the world was like, and with a view to practising a profession or business there, he was carried off his head, and nearly entrapped by a woman much older than himself, though luckily he escaped not greatly the worse for the experience.
这场决定性辩论的影响很快就显现出来了。他年复一年地进行断断续续的学习、事业和冥想。他开始对社会形式和习俗表现出相当的漠不关心。他越来越鄙视等级和财富的物质差别。即使是“好老家族”（用一位已故当地伟人最喜欢的一句话）也对他没有吸引力，除非其代表有新的好决议。为了平衡这些苦行，当他去伦敦生活，看看世界是什么样子，并打算在那里从事一项职业或生意时，他被一个比他年长得多的女人迷住了。幸运的是，他自己逃脱了，并没有因为这次经历而变得更糟。

Early association with country solitudes had bred in him an unconquerable, and almost unreasonable, aversion to modern town life, and shut him out from such success as he might have aspired to by following a mundane calling in the impracticability of the spiritual one. But something had to be done; he had wasted many valuable years; and having an acquaintance who was starting on a thriving life as a Colonial farmer, it occurred to Angel that this might be a lead in the right direction. Farming, either in the Colonies, America, or at home—farming, at any rate, after becoming well qualified for the business by a careful apprenticeship—that was a vocation which would probably afford an independence without the sacrifice of what he valued even more than a competency—intellectual liberty.
早期与乡村孤独的交往使他对现代城市生活产生了一种无法克服的、几乎不合理的厌恶，并使他无法通过追求一种不切实际的精神召唤而追求世俗的召唤而获得成功。但必须做点什么；他已经浪费了许多宝贵的岁月；安吉尔认识了一位正在开始作为殖民地农民过上繁荣生活的熟人，他突然想到这可能是一条通往正确方向的线索。务农，无论是在殖民地、美国，还是在家里——无论如何，在通过仔细的学徒训练获得了足够的资格后，从事农业——这种职业可能会提供独立，而无需牺牲他更看重的东西而不是一种能力——智力自由。

So we find Angel Clare at six-and-twenty here at Talbothays as a student of kine, and, as there were no houses near at hand in which he could get a comfortable lodging, a boarder at the dairyman’s.
因此，我们在塔尔博塞斯找到了六岁二十岁的安吉尔·克莱尔，他是一名牛的学生，而且，由于附近没有房子可以让他住得舒适，所以他在奶牛场寄宿。

His room was an immense attic which ran the whole length of the dairy-house. It could only be reached by a ladder from the cheese-loft, and had been closed up for a long time till he arrived and selected it as his retreat. Here Clare had plenty of space, and could often be heard by the dairy-folk pacing up and down when the household had gone to rest. A portion was divided off at one end by a curtain, behind which was his bed, the outer part being furnished as a homely sitting-room.
他的房间是一个巨大的阁楼，与奶牛场一样长。它只能从奶酪阁楼通过梯子到达，并且已经关闭了很长一段时间，直到他到达并选择它作为他的撤退。克莱尔在这里有足够的空间，当家人休息时，经常可以听到奶牛场工人来回踱步的声音。一部分的一端被帘子隔开，帘子后面是他的床，外面的部分布置成一间温馨的客厅。

At first he lived up above entirely, reading a good deal, and strumming upon an old harp which he had bought at a sale, saying when in a bitter humour that he might have to get his living by it in the streets some day. But he soon preferred to read human nature by taking his meals downstairs in the general dining-kitchen, with the dairyman and his wife, and the maids and men, who all together formed a lively assembly; for though but few milking hands slept in the house, several joined the family at meals. The longer Clare resided here the less objection had he to his company, and the more did he like to share quarters with them in common.
起初，他完全生活在上面，读了很多书，弹奏着他在拍卖会上买的一把旧竖琴，在苦涩的幽默中说，有一天他可能不得不在街上靠它谋生。但很快他就喜欢在楼下的普通餐厅厨房里吃饭，与奶牛场老板和他的妻子、女仆和男人一起吃饭，他们一起组成了一个热闹的聚会，以了解人性。虽然只有很少的挤奶工人睡在房子里，但也有几个人和家人一起吃饭。克莱尔在这里住的时间越长，他对自己的陪伴就越少，也越喜欢与他们共用宿舍。

Much to his surprise he took, indeed, a real delight in their companionship. The conventional farm-folk of his imagination— personified in the newspaper-press by the pitiable dummy known as Hodge—were obliterated after a few days’ residence. At close quarters no Hodge was to be seen. At first, it is true, when Clare’s intelligence was fresh from a contrasting society, these friends with whom he now hobnobbed seemed a little strange. Sitting down as a level member of the dairyman’s household seemed at the outset an undignified proceeding. The ideas, the modes, the surroundings, appeared retrogressive and unmeaning. But with living on there, day after day, the acute sojourner became conscious of a new aspect in the spectacle. Without any objective change whatever, variety had taken the place of monotonousness. His host and his host’s household, his men and his maids, as they became intimately known to Clare, began to differentiate themselves as in a chemical process. The thought of Pascal’s was brought home to him: ‘A mesure qu’on a plus d’esprit, on trouve qu’il y a plus d’hommes originaux. Les gens du commun ne trouvent pas de différence entre les hommes.’ The typical and unvarying Hodge ceased to exist. He had been disintegrated into a number of varied fellow-creatures—beings of many minds, beings infinite in difference; some happy, many serene, a few depressed, one here and there bright even to genius, some stupid, others wanton, others austere; some mutely Miltonic, some potentially Cromwellian—into men who had private views of each other, as he had of his friends; who could applaud or condemn each other, amuse or sadden themselves by the contemplation of each other’s foibles or vices; men every one of whom walked in his own individual way the road to dusty death.
令他惊讶的是，他确实对他们的陪伴感到真正的高兴。他想象中的传统农民——报纸上的化身是可怜的假人霍奇——在几天的居住后就被抹去了。近距离看不到霍奇。确实，起初，当克莱尔的才智刚从一个截然不同的社会中走出来时，他现在所交往的这些朋友似乎有点奇怪。作为奶牛场老板家庭的一名普通成员坐下来，一开始似乎是一种有损尊严的行为。观念、模式、环境都显得倒退、毫无意义。但随着日复一日的生活，这位敏锐的旅居者开始意识到景观中的一个新方面。在没有任何客观变化的情况下，多样性取代了单调。他的主人和主人的家人，他的男人和女仆，正如克莱尔所熟悉的那样，开始像化学过程一样区分自己。他想起了帕斯卡的想法：“A mesure qu’on a plus d’esprit, on trouve qu’il y a plus d’hommes originaux”。 “Les gens du commun ne trouvent pas de différence entre les hommes”。典型的、一成不变的霍奇不复存在。他已经被分解成许多不同的同类——具有多种思想的存在，差异无限的存在。有些人快乐，有些人平静，有些人沮丧，有些人甚至聪明到天才，有些人愚蠢，有些人肆意，有些人严肃；有些是沉默的弥尔顿式的，有些是潜在的克伦威尔式的——他们对彼此有私人看法，就像他对朋友的看法一样；他们可以互相赞扬或谴责，通过思考彼此的缺点或恶习而感到高兴或悲伤；每个人都以自己的方式走上了尘土飞扬的死亡之路。

Unexpectedly he began to like the outdoor life for its own sake, and for what it brought, apart from its bearing on his own proposed career. Considering his position he became wonderfully free from the chronic melancholy which is taking hold of the civilized races with the decline of belief in a beneficent Power. For the first time of late years he could read as his musings inclined him, without any eye to cramming for a profession, since the few farming handbooks which he deemed it desirable to master occupied him but little time.
出乎意料的是，他开始喜欢户外生活，不仅因为它对他自己的职业生涯有影响，而且还因为它本身和它带来的好处。考虑到他的立场，他奇迹般地摆脱了长期的忧郁情绪，这种忧郁情绪正在笼罩着文明种族，人们对仁慈的力量的信仰逐渐衰落。近年来，他第一次可以随心所欲地阅读，而不必为了职业而死记硬背，因为他认为需要掌握的几本农业手册只占用了他很少的时间。

He grew away from old associations, and saw something new in life and humanity. Secondarily, he made close acquaintance with phenomena which he had before known but darkly—the seasons in their moods, morning and evening, night and noon, winds in their different tempers, trees, waters and mists, shades and silences, and the voices of inanimate things.
他摆脱了旧的联想，在生活和人性中看到了新的东西。其次，他近距离地了解了一些他以前不太了解的现象——季节的心情，早晨和傍晚，夜晚和中午，不同脾气的风，树木，水和雾，树荫和寂静，以及人们的声音。无生命的东西。

The early mornings were still sufficiently cool to render a fire acceptable in the large room wherein they breakfasted; and, by Mrs Crick’s orders, who held that he was too genteel to mess at their table, it was Angel Clare’s custom to sit in the yawning chimney-corner during the meal, his cup-and-saucer and plate being placed on a hinged flap at his elbow. The light from the long, wide, mullioned window opposite shone in upon his nook, and, assisted by a secondary light of cold blue quality which shone down the chimney, enabled him to read there easily whenever disposed to do so. Between Clare and the window was the table at which his companions sat, their munching profiles rising sharp against the panes; while to the side was the milk-house door, through which were visible the rectangular leads in rows, full to the brim with the morning’s milk. At the further end the great churn could be seen revolving, and its slip-slopping heard—the moving power being discernible through the window in the form of a spiritless horse walking in a circle and driven by a boy.
清晨的气温仍然足够凉爽，可以在他们吃早餐的大房间里生火。克里克夫人认为他太有教养，不能弄乱他们的餐桌，按照克里克夫人的命令，安吉尔·克莱尔的习惯是在用餐时坐在打哈欠的烟囱角上，他的杯子、碟子和盘子放在铰链上。拍打他的肘部。对面那扇又长又宽的直棂窗射进来的光照射到他的角落里，在从烟囱照射下来的冷蓝色的辅助光的帮助下，他可以在任何需要的时候轻松地在那里读书。克莱尔和窗户之间是一张桌子，他的同伴们坐在桌子旁，他们咀嚼的轮廓在玻璃上急剧上升。旁边是牛奶房的门，透过门可以看到成排的长方形引线，里面装满了早晨的牛奶。在远处，可以看到巨大的搅拌机在旋转，还可以听到它的滑溜声——透过窗户可以辨别出移动的力量，表现为一匹毫无生气的马，由一个男孩驾驶着，绕圈行走。

For several days after Tess’s arrival Clare, sitting abstractedly reading from some book, periodical, or piece of music just come by post, hardly noticed that she was present at table. She talked so little, and the other maids talked so much, that the babble did not strike him as possessing a new note, and he was ever in the habit of neglecting the particulars of an outward scene for the general impression. One day, however, when he had been conning one of his music-scores, and by force of imagination was hearing the tune in his head, he lapsed into listlessness, and the music-sheet rolled to the hearth. He looked at the fire of logs, with its one flame pirouetting on the top in a dying dance after the breakfast-cooking and boiling, and it seemed to jig to his inward tune; also at the two chimney crooks dangling down from the cotterel, or cross-bar, plumed with soot, which quivered to the same melody; also at the half-empty kettle whining an accompaniment. The conversation at the table mixed in with his phantasmal orchestra till he thought: ‘What a fluty voice one of those milkmaids has! I suppose it is the new one.’
苔丝到来后的几天里，克莱尔心不在焉地坐着阅读刚邮寄过来的书籍、期刊或音乐作品，几乎没有注意到她在餐桌旁。她说话很少，而其他女仆则说话太多，以至于他的胡言乱语并没有给他留下新的印象，而且他总是习惯于为了总体印象而忽略外在场景的细节。然而有一天，当他在创作一首乐谱时，凭借想象力在脑海中听到了这首曲子，他陷入了无精打采的状态，乐谱滚到了壁炉边。他看着木头的火，在早餐烹制和沸腾后，它的一根火焰在顶部旋转，跳着一支垂死的舞蹈，这似乎与他内心的曲调一致；还有两个烟囱钩从横杆上垂下来，上面沾满了烟灰，随着同样的旋律而颤抖。还对着半空的水壶呜呜地伴奏。餐桌上的谈话与他那梦幻般的管弦乐队混杂在一起，直到他想：‘那些挤奶女工的声音多么沙哑啊！我想这是新的。

Clare looked round upon her, seated with the others.
克莱尔环顾四周，与其他人坐在一起。

She was not looking towards him. Indeed, owing to his long silence, his presence in the room was almost forgotten.
她没有看向他。确实，由于他长时间的沉默，他在房间里的存在几乎被遗忘了。

‘I don’t know about ghosts,’ she was saying; ‘but I do know that our souls can be made to go outside our bodies when we are alive.’
“我不知道鬼魂，”她说。 “但我确实知道，当我们活着的时候，我们的灵魂可以离开我们的身体。”

The dairyman turned to her with his mouth full, his eyes charged with serious inquiry, and his great knife and fork (breakfasts were breakfasts here) planted erect on the table, like the beginning of a gallows.
奶牛场老板满嘴塞满食物，眼睛里充满严肃的询问，他的大刀叉（早餐就是早餐）竖立在桌子上，就像绞刑架的开头一样。

‘What—really now? And is it so, maidy?’ he said.
‘什么——真的是现在吗？是这样吗，小姐？”他说。

‘A very easy way to feel ‘em go,’ continued Tess, ‘is to lie on the grass at night and look straight up at some big bright star; and, by fixing your mind upon it, you will soon find that you are hundreds and hundreds o’ miles away from your body, which you don’t seem to want at all.’
“感受它们的一种非常简单的方法，”苔丝继续说道，“就是晚上躺在草地上，抬头直视一颗明亮的大星星；并且，通过将你的注意力集中在它上面，你很快就会发现你距离你的身体有数百英里远，而你似乎根本不想要它。

The dairyman removed his hard gaze from Tess, and fixed it on his wife.
奶牛场老板把严厉的目光从苔丝身上移开，集中在他的妻子身上。

‘Now that’s a rum thing, Christianer—hey? To think o’ the miles I’ve vamped o’ starlight nights these last thirty year, courting, or trading, or for doctor, or for nurse, and yet never had the least notion o’ that till now, or feeled my soul rise so much as an inch above my shirt-collar.’
“现在这是朗姆酒的事情了，克里斯蒂安纳——嘿？想想过去三十年来我在星光灿烂的夜晚走过的里程，求爱，或交易，或为医生，或为护士，但直到现在我从未有过任何想法，或感到我的灵魂升起比我的衬衫领子高出一英寸。”

The general attention being drawn to her, including that of the dairyman’s pupil, Tess flushed, and remarking evasively that it was only a fancy, resumed her breakfast.
所有人的注意力都集中在她身上，包括奶牛场老板的学生，苔丝脸红了，闪烁其辞地说这只是一个幻想，然后继续吃早餐。

Clare continued to observe her. She soon finished her eating, and having a consciousness that Clare was regarding her, began to trace imaginary patterns on the tablecloth with her forefinger with the constraint of a domestic animal that perceives itself to be watched.
克莱尔继续观察着她。她很快吃完饭，意识到克莱尔正在看着她，开始用食指在桌布上描绘想象中的图案，就像一只感觉自己被监视的家畜一样。

‘What a fresh and virginal daughter of Nature that milkmaid is!’ he said to himself.
“那个挤奶女工是大自然的新鲜而纯洁的女儿！”他自言自语道。

And then he seemed to discern in her something that was familiar, something which carried him back into a joyous and unforeseeing past, before the necessity of taking thought had made the heavens gray. He concluded that he had beheld her before; where he could not tell. A casual encounter during some country ramble it certainly had been, and he was not greatly curious about it. But the circumstance was sufficient to lead him to select Tess in preference to the other pretty milkmaids when he wished to contemplate contiguous womankind.
然后他似乎在她身上看到了一些熟悉的东西，在需要思考的必要性使天空变得灰色之前，某种东西把他带回到了快乐和不可预见的过去。他得出结论，他以前见过她。他说不出来。这确实是在乡村漫步时偶然遇到的，他对此并没有太大的好奇。但当他想考虑邻近的女性时，这种情况足以使他优先选择苔丝而不是其他漂亮的挤奶女工。

XIX
十九

In general the cows were milked as they presented themselves, without fancy or choice. But certain cows will show a fondness for a particular pair of hands, sometimes carrying this predilection so far as to refuse to stand at all except to their favourite, the pail of a stranger being unceremoniously kicked over.
一般来说，奶牛都是按照它们自己的样子来挤奶的，没有任何幻想或选择。但某些奶牛会表现出对特定双手的喜爱，有时甚至会拒绝站立，除了它们最喜欢的手之外，陌生人的水桶会被毫不客气地踢翻。

It was Dairyman Crick’s rule to insist on breaking down these partialities and aversions by constant interchange, since otherwise, in the event of a milkman or maid going away from the dairy, he was placed in a difficulty. The maids’ private aims, however, were the reverse of the dairyman’s rule, the daily selection by each damsel of the eight or ten cows to which she had grown accustomed rendering the operation on their willing udders surprisingly easy and effortless.
奶牛场老板克里克的规则是坚持通过不断的交流来打破这些偏见和厌恶，否则，如果送奶工或女佣离开奶场，他就会陷入困境。然而，女仆们的个人目标却与奶牛场老板的规则相反，每个少女每天都会选择八到十头她已经习惯的奶牛，这使得对她们自愿的乳房进行手术出奇地容易和毫不费力。

Tess, like her compeers, soon discovered which of the cows had a preference for her style of manipulation, and her fingers having become delicate from the long domiciliary imprisonments to which she had subjected herself at intervals during the last two or three years, she would have been glad to meet the milchers’ views in this respect. Out of the whole ninety-five there were eight in particular—Dumpling, Fancy, Lofty, Mist, Old Pretty, Young Pretty, Tidy, and Loud—who, though the teats of one or two were as hard as carrots, gave down to her with a readiness that made her work on them a mere touch of the fingers. Knowing, however, the dairyman’s wish, she endeavoured conscientiously to take the animals just as they came, expecting the very hard yielders which she could not yet manage.
苔丝和她的同龄人一样，很快就发现哪头牛更喜欢她的操纵方式，而且她的手指由于过去两三年里她时不时地被长期监禁而变得脆弱，她会很高兴能够满足牛奶厂在这方面的观点。九十五个人中，有八个人特别特别——饺子、花式、高高、薄雾、老美人、少美人、整洁、响亮——虽然其中一两个人的奶头像胡萝卜一样坚硬，但他们还是屈服了。她的准备工作使她只需用手指轻轻一触即可完成工作。然而，她知道奶牛场老板的愿望，所以尽心尽力地把牲畜赶来，期待着她还无法管理的非常艰难的产量。

But she soon found a curious correspondence between the ostensibly chance position of the cows and her wishes in this matter, till she felt that their order could not be the result of accident. The dairyman’s pupil had lent a hand in getting the cows together of late, and at the fifth or sixth time she turned her eyes, as she rested against the cow, full of sly inquiry upon him.
但她很快就发现，奶牛表面上偶然的位置与她在这件事上的愿望之间存在着一种奇怪的对应关系，直到她觉得它们的顺序不可能是偶然的结果。奶牛场老板的学生最近帮了牛们的忙，第五六次，她靠在牛身上，转过头来，充满了狡猾的询问。

‘Mr Clare, you have ranged the cows!’ she said, blushing; and in making the accusation, symptoms of a smile gently lifted her upper lip in spite of her, so as to show the tips of her teeth, the lower lip remaining severely still.
“克莱尔先生，你已经把奶牛排好了！”她红着脸说道。在提出指控时，她的上唇不顾她的微笑，轻轻地抬起，露出了牙尖，下唇则一动不动。

‘Well, it makes no difference,’ said he. ‘You will always be here to milk them.’
“好吧，这没有什么区别，”他说。 “你将永远在这里挤奶。”

‘Do you think so? I HOPE I shall! But I don’t KNOW.’
‘你这么认为吗？我希望我会的！但我不知道。

She was angry with herself afterwards, thinking that he, unaware of her grave reasons for liking this seclusion, might have mistaken her meaning. She had spoken so earnestly to him, as if his presence were somehow a factor in her wish. Her misgiving was such that at dusk, when the milking was over, she walked in the garden alone, to continue her regrets that she had disclosed to him her discovery of his considerateness.
后来她对自己很生气，认为他不知道她喜欢这种隐居的严重原因，可能误解了她的意思。她对他说话如此诚恳，仿佛他的存在在某种程度上是她愿望的一个因素。她很担心，黄昏时分，挤奶结束后，她独自一人在花园里散步，继续为自己发现了他的体贴而感到遗憾。

It was a typical summer evening in June, the atmosphere being in such delicate equilibrium and so transmissive that inanimate objects seemed endowed with two or three senses, if not five. There was no distinction between the near and the far, and an auditor felt close to everything within the horizon. The soundlessness impressed her as a positive entity rather than as the mere negation of noise. It was broken by the strumming of strings.
这是六月一个典型的夏日夜晚，气氛如此微妙的平衡和如此的透明，以至于无生命的物体似乎被赋予了两到三种感官，如果不是五种的话。没有远近之分，听者感觉与地平线内的一切都很接近。寂静给她留下了积极的印象，而不仅仅是对噪音的否定。它被琴弦的弹奏声打破了。

Tess had heard those notes in the attic above her head. Dim, flattened, constrained by their confinement, they had never appealed to her as now, when they wandered in the still air with a stark quality like that of nudity. To speak absolutely, both instrument and execution were poor; but the relative is all, and as she listened Tess, like a fascinated bird, could not leave the spot. Far from leaving she drew up towards the performer, keeping behind the hedge that he might not guess her presence.
苔丝在她头顶的阁楼里听到了那些声音。昏暗、扁平、被束缚所束缚，它们从来没有像现在这样对她有吸引力，当它们在静止的空气中漫步时，带着一种赤裸裸的品质。绝对地说，无论是手段还是执行力都很差。但亲戚就是一切，苔丝听着，就像一只着迷的小鸟，无法离开现场。她远远没有离开，而是靠近表演者，躲在树篱后面，以免他猜到她的存在。

The outskirt of the garden in which Tess found herself had been left uncultivated for some years, and was now damp and rank with juicy grass which sent up mists of pollen at a touch; and with tall blooming weeds emitting offensive smells—weeds whose red and yellow and purple hues formed a polychrome as dazzling as that of cultivated flowers. She went stealthily as a cat through this profusion of growth, gathering cuckoo-spittle on her skirts, cracking snails that were underfoot, staining her hands with thistle-milk and slug-slime, and rubbing off upon her naked arms sticky blights which, though snow-white on the apple-tree trunks, made madder stains on her skin; thus she drew quite near to Clare, still unobserved of him.
苔丝发现自己所在的花园的外围已经多年无人耕种，现在潮湿且长满了多汁的青草，一碰就会散发出花粉的雾气；高大的野草盛开，散发出难闻的气味，红、黄、紫的杂草形成了绚丽的色彩，就像栽培的花朵一样令人眼花缭乱。她像一只猫一样偷偷地走过这茂密的生长区，在裙子上收集杜鹃的唾液，敲碎脚下的蜗牛，用蓟奶和蛞蝓粘液弄脏她的手，并在她赤裸的手臂上擦掉粘稠的枯萎病苹果树干上雪白，皮肤上染上茜草色的斑点；就这样，她离克莱尔很近，但仍然没有注意到他。

Tess was conscious of neither time nor space. The exaltation which she had described as being producible at will by gazing at a star came now without any determination of hers; she undulated upon the thin notes of the second-hand harp, and their harmonies passed like breezes through her, bringing tears into her eyes. The floating pollen seemed to be his notes made visible, and the dampness of the garden the weeping of the garden’s sensibility. Though near nightfall, the rank-smelling weed-flowers glowed as if they would not close for intentness, and the waves of colour mixed with the waves of sound.
苔丝既没有时间意识，也没有空间意识。她所说的那种凝视星星就能随意产生的兴奋感，现在却没有任何她的决定性地出现了；她用二手竖琴的细弱音符起伏，它们的和声像微风一样穿过她，让她热泪盈眶。漂浮的花粉似乎是他看得见的笔记，花园的潮湿是花园感性的哭泣。尽管临近夜幕降临，那些散发着恶臭的杂草花却闪闪发亮，仿佛它们不会专心致志地关闭，色彩的波浪与声音的波浪混合在一起。

The light which still shone was derived mainly from a large hole in the western bank of cloud; it was like a piece of day left behind by accident, dusk having closed in elsewhere. He concluded his plaintive melody, a very simple performance, demanding no great skill; and she waited, thinking another might be begun. But, tired of playing, he had desultorily come round the fence, and was rambling up behind her. Tess, her cheeks on fire, moved away furtively, as if hardly moving at all.
仍然闪耀的光主要来自云层西岸的一个大洞；这就像一个偶然被遗忘的一天，黄昏已经在别处降临。他以一种非常简单的表演结束了他哀伤的旋律，不需要很高的技巧。她等待着，想着另一场比赛可能会开始。但是，他玩累了，就漫不经心地绕过栅栏，慢悠悠地跟在她身后。苔丝脸颊着火，偷偷地走开了，仿佛根本没有动过。

Angel, however, saw her light summer gown, and he spoke; his low tones reaching her, though he was some distance off.
然而，安吉尔看到了她浅薄的夏装，他开口了；他低沉的声音传到了她的耳中，尽管他离她有一段距离。

‘What makes you draw off in that way, Tess?’ said he. ‘Are you afraid?’
“苔丝，是什么让你这么做？”他说。 '你害怕吗？'

‘Oh no, sir—not of outdoor things; especially just now when the apple-blooth is falling, and everything is so green.’
“哦，不，先生——不是户外活动；尤其是现在，苹果花正飘落，一切都是那么绿。”

‘But you have your indoor fears—eh?’
“但你也有室内的恐惧——嗯？”

‘Well—yes, sir.’
“嗯——是的，先生。”

‘What of?’
'什么？'

‘I couldn’t quite say.’
“我不太清楚。”

‘The milk turning sour?’
“牛奶变酸了？”

‘No.’
'不。'

‘Life in general?’
“一般生活？”

‘Yes, sir.’
'是的先生。'

‘Ah—so have I, very often. This hobble of being alive is rather serious, don’t you think so?’
“啊——我也经常这样。这种生存的困境是相当严重的，你不这么认为吗？

‘It is—now you put it that way.’
“是的——现在你这么说吧。”

‘All the same, I shouldn’t have expected a young girl like you to see it so just yet. How is it you do?’
“尽管如此，我还是没想到像你这样的年轻女孩会这么快就看到它。你怎么样？

She maintained a hesitating silence.
她保持着犹豫的沉默。

‘Come, Tess, tell me in confidence.’
“来吧，苔丝，私下告诉我。”

She thought that he meant what were the aspects of things to her, and replied shyly—
她以为他对她来说是指事物的各个方面，害羞地回答道——

‘The trees have inquisitive eyes, haven’t they?—that is, seem as if they had. And the river says,—‘Why do ye trouble me with your looks?’ And you seem to see numbers of to-morrows just all in a line, the first of them the biggest and clearest, the others getting smaller and smaller as they stand farther away; but they all seem very fierce and cruel and as if they said, ‘I’m coming! Beware of me! Beware of me!’ ... But YOU, sir, can raise up dreams with your music, and drive all such horrid fancies away!’
“树木有好奇的眼睛，不是吗？——也就是说，它们看起来好像有。”河流说：“你为什么用你的外表来困扰我？”你似乎看到了许多明天排成一排，第一个是最大、最清晰的，其他的随着它们的出现而变得越来越小。站得远一些；但他们看起来都很凶猛、残忍，好像在说：‘我来了！小心我！当心我！’……但是，先生，你可以用你的音乐唤起梦想，赶走所有这些可怕的幻想！’

He was surprised to find this young woman—who though but a milkmaid had just that touch of rarity about her which might make her the envied of her housemates—shaping such sad imaginings. She was expressing in her own native phrases—assisted a little by her Sixth Standard training—feelings which might almost have been called those of the age—the ache of modernism. The perception arrested him less when he reflected that what are called advanced ideas are really in great part but the latest fashion in definition—a more accurate expression, by words in logy and ism, of sensations which men and women have vaguely grasped for centuries.
他惊讶地发现这个年轻女子——虽然只是一个挤奶女工，却有着一种罕见的气质，这可能会让她的室友们羡慕不已——竟然形成了如此悲伤的想象。她用自己的母语表达了——在她的第六标准训练的帮助下——几乎可以被称为那个时代的情感——现代主义的痛苦。当他想到所谓的先进思想实际上在很大程度上只是定义上的最新时尚时，这种看法就不那么吸引他了——用逻辑和主义的语言更准确地表达了男人和女人几个世纪以来模糊掌握的感觉。

Still, it was strange that they should have come to her while yet so young; more than strange; it was impressive, interesting, pathetic. Not guessing the cause, there was nothing to remind him that experience is as to intensity, and not as to duration. Tess’s passing corporeal blight had been her mental harvest.
不过，奇怪的是，他们竟然在这么年轻的时候就来找她。不仅仅是奇怪；这是令人印象深刻的、有趣的、可悲的。不猜原因，没有任何东西提醒他，经验是关于强度，而不是关于持续时间。苔丝所经历的肉体上的枯萎，却是她精神上的收获。

Tess, on her part, could not understand why a man of clerical family and good education, and above physical want, should look upon it as a mishap to be alive. For the unhappy pilgrim herself there was very good reason. But how could this admirable and poetic man ever have descended into the Valley of Humiliation, have felt with the man of Uz—as she herself had felt two or three years ago—‘My soul chooseth strangling and death rather than my life. I loathe it; I would not live alway.’
苔丝则无法理解，为什么一个出身教士家庭、受过良好教育、而且不愁物质匮乏的男人，竟然会认为活着是一种不幸。对于不幸的朝圣者本人来说，这是有充分理由的。但是，这个令人钦佩、充满诗意的男人怎么可能坠入屈辱之谷，与乌兹人一起感受——正如她自己两三年前的感受——“我的灵魂选择绞杀和死亡，而不是我的生命。”我讨厌它；我不会永远活着。

It was true that he was at present out of his class. But she knew that was only because, like Peter the Great in a shipwright’s yard, he was studying what he wanted to know. He did not milk cows because he was obliged to milk cows, but because he was learning to be a rich and prosperous dairyman, landowner, agriculturist, and breeder of cattle. He would become an American or Australian Abraham, commanding like a monarch his flocks and his herds, his spotted and his ring-straked, his men-servants and his maids. At times, nevertheless, it did seem unaccountable to her that a decidedly bookish, musical, thinking young man should have chosen deliberately to be a farmer, and not a clergyman, like his father and brothers.
确实，他现在不在班上。但她知道这只是因为，就像彼得大帝在造船厂里一样，他正在研究他想知道的东西。他挤奶不是因为他被迫挤奶，而是因为他正在学习成为一名富有而繁荣的奶牛场老板、地主、农民和牛饲养员。他将成为美国或澳大利亚的亚伯拉罕，像君主一样指挥他的羊群和牛群，他的斑点和环纹，他的男仆和女仆。然而，有时候，她确实觉得有些不可思议，一个书生气十足、热爱音乐、善于思考的年轻人竟然故意选择当农民，而不是像他的父亲和兄弟那样当牧师。

Thus, neither having the clue to the other’s secret, they were respectively puzzled at what each revealed, and awaited new knowledge of each other’s character and mood without attempting to pry into each other’s history.
因此，他们都对对方的秘密一无所知，各自对各自所透露的内容感到困惑，并等待着对彼此的性格和情绪的新了解，而不是试图窥探对方的历史。

Every day, every hour, brought to him one more little stroke of her nature, and to her one more of his. Tess was trying to lead a repressed life, but she little divined the strength of her own vitality.
每一天，每时每刻，她的天性都给他带来了一点点，他的天性也给她带来了一点点。苔丝试图过一种压抑的生活，但她几乎没有预见到自己的生命力有多强。

At first Tess seemed to regard Angel Clare as an intelligence rather than as a man. As such she compared him with herself; and at every discovery of the abundance of his illuminations, of the distance between her own modest mental standpoint and the unmeasurable, Andean altitude of his, she became quite dejected, disheartened from all further effort on her own part whatever.
起初，苔丝似乎把安吉尔·克莱尔视为一个聪明人，而不是一个人。因此，她将他与自己进行了比较；每当发现他的丰富的启发，发现她自己谦虚的精神立场与他不可估量的安第斯海拔之间的距离时，她就会变得非常沮丧，对自己所做的一切进一步努力感到沮丧。

He observed her dejection one day, when he had casually mentioned something to her about pastoral life in ancient Greece. She was gathering the buds called ‘lords and ladies’ from the bank while he spoke.
有一天，他无意中向她提到了一些关于古希腊田园生活的事情，他看到了她的沮丧。当他说话时，她正在银行里采摘被称为“勋爵夫人”的花蕾。

‘Why do you look so woebegone all of a sudden?’ he asked.
“你为什么突然看起来这么愁眉苦脸？”他问道。

‘Oh, ‘tis only—about my own self,’ she said, with a frail laugh of sadness, fitfully beginning to peel ‘a lady’ meanwhile. ‘Just a sense of what might have been with me! My life looks as if it had been wasted for want of chances! When I see what you know, what you have read, and seen, and thought, I feel what a nothing I am! I’m like the poor Queen of Sheba who lived in the Bible. There is no more spirit in me.’
“哦，这只是——关于我自己，”她说，带着悲伤的微弱笑声，同时断断续续地开始剥落“一位女士”。 ‘只是对我可能发生的事情的一种感觉！我的生命看起来好像因为缺乏机会而被浪费了！当我看到你所知道的、你读过的、看到的、想到的，我感到自己是多么的无足轻重！我就像圣经里可怜的示巴女王。我已经没有精神了。

‘Bless my soul, don’t go troubling about that! Why,’ he said with some enthusiasm, ‘I should be only too glad, my dear Tess, to help you to anything in the way of history, or any line of reading you would like to take up—‘
‘保佑我的灵魂，别为此烦恼！哎呀，”他带着几分热情说道，“我亲爱的苔丝，我非常高兴能帮助你了解历史方面的任何事情，或者你想从事的任何阅读——”

‘It is a lady again,’ interrupted she, holding out the bud she had peeled.
“又是一位女士，”她打断道，伸出了她剥下来的花蕾。

‘What?’
'什么？'

‘I meant that there are always more ladies than lords when you come to peel them.’
“我的意思是，当你来剥皮时，女士们总是比贵族们多。”

‘Never mind about the lords and ladies. Would you like to take up any course of study—history, for example?’
“别介意贵族和女士们的事。你想学习任何课程吗——例如历史？

‘Sometimes I feel I don’t want to know anything more about it than I know already.’
“有时我觉得我不想知道比我已经知道的更多的事情了。”

‘Why not?’
'为什么不？'

‘Because what’s the use of learning that I am one of a long row only—finding out that there is set down in some old book somebody just like me, and to know that I shall only act her part; making me sad, that’s all. The best is not to remember that your nature and your past doings have been just like thousands’ and thousands’, and that your coming life and doings ‘ll be like thousands’s and thousands’.’
“因为知道我只是一长串中的一员有什么用——发现在一本旧书中记载了一个像我一样的人，并且知道我只会扮演她的角色;让我伤心，仅此而已。最好的是不要记住，你的本性和你过去的行为就像“成千上万”，而你的未来生活和行为“将像成千上万”。

‘What, really, then, you don’t want to learn anything?’
“那你真的不想学什么吗？”

‘I shouldn’t mind learning why—why the sun do shine on the just and the unjust alike,’ she answered, with a slight quaver in her voice. ‘But that’s what books will not tell me.’
“我不介意了解为什么——为什么阳光照耀正义和不正义的人，”她回答道，声音微微颤抖。 “但这就是书本不会告诉我的。”

‘Tess, fie for such bitterness!’ Of course he spoke with a conventional sense of duty only, for that sort of wondering had not been unknown to himself in bygone days. And as he looked at the unpracticed mouth and lips, he thought that such a daughter of the soil could only have caught up the sentiment by rote. She went on peeling the lords and ladies till Clare, regarding for a moment the wave-like curl of her lashes as they dropped with her bent gaze on her soft cheek, lingeringly went away. When he was gone she stood awhile, thoughtfully peeling the last bud; and then, awakening from her reverie, flung it and all the crowd of floral nobility impatiently on the ground, in an ebullition of displeasure with herself for her niaiserie, and with a quickening warmth in her heart of hearts.
“苔丝，你受不了这样的痛苦！”当然，他只是带着一种传统的责任感说话，因为这种疑惑在过去的日子里他自己并不陌生。而当他看着那张未经练习的嘴巴和嘴唇时，他认为这样一个土生子只能死记硬背地领会这种情感。她继续剥着贵族和女士们的皮，直到克莱尔，凝视着她柔软的脸颊，凝视着她波浪般卷曲的睫毛，徘徊了一会儿，才缓缓走开。他走后，她站了一会儿，若有所思地剥下最后一个花蕾。然后，她从沉思中醒来，不耐烦地把它和所有的花贵族扔到地上，对自己的花哨感到不满，内心涌起一股温暖。

How stupid he must think her! In an access of hunger for his good opinion she bethought herself of what she had latterly endeavoured to forget, so unpleasant had been its issues—the identity of her family with that of the knightly d’Urbervilles. Barren attribute as it was, disastrous as its discovery had been in many ways to her, perhaps Mr Clare, as a gentleman and a student of history, would respect her sufficiently to forget her childish conduct with the lords and ladies if he knew that those Purbeck-marble and alabaster people in Kingsbere Church really represented her own lineal forefathers; that she was no spurious d’Urberville, compounded of money and ambition like those at Trantridge, but true d’Urberville to the bone.
他一定认为她多么愚蠢！在渴望获得他的好意见的过程中，她想起了她最近极力想要忘记的事情——她的家族与德伯维尔骑士家族的身份是多么令人不快。尽管它是贫瘠的，它的发现在很多方面对她来说都是灾难性的，也许克莱尔先生，作为一位绅士和历史学家，会充分尊重她，忘记她对贵族和女士们的幼稚行为，如果他知道那些金斯贝尔教堂里的波贝克大理石和雪花石膏人真正代表了她自己的直系祖先。她不是虚假的德伯维尔，像特兰特里奇的那些人一样，充满了金钱和野心，而是真正的德伯维尔。

But, before venturing to make the revelation, dubious Tess indirectly sounded the dairyman as to its possible effect upon Mr Clare, by asking the former if Mr Clare had any great respect for old county families when they had lost all their money and land.
但是，在冒险透露这一消息之前，半信半疑的苔丝间接地向奶牛场老板询问了这件事对克莱尔先生可能产生的影响，她询问前者，当县里的老家庭失去了所有的金钱和土地时，克莱尔先生是否对他们有很大的尊重。

‘Mr Clare,’ said the dairyman emphatically, ‘is one of the most rebellest rozums you ever knowed—not a bit like the rest of his family; and if there’s one thing that he do hate more than another ‘tis the notion of what’s called a’ old family. He says that it stands to reason that old families have done their spurt of work in past days, and can’t have anything left in ‘em now. There’s the Billets and the Drenkhards and the Greys and the St Quintins and the Hardys and the Goulds, who used to own the lands for miles down this valley; you could buy ‘em all up now for an old song a’most. Why, our little Retty Priddle here, you know, is one of the Paridelles—the old family that used to own lots o’ the lands out by King’s Hintock, now owned by the Earl o’ Wessex, afore even he or his was heard of. Well, Mr Clare found this out, and spoke quite scornful to the poor girl for days. ‘Ah!’ he says to her, ‘you’ll never make a good dairymaid! All your skill was used up ages ago in Palestine, and you must lie fallow for a thousand years to git strength for more deeds!’ A boy came here t’other day asking for a job, and said his name was Matt, and when we asked him his surname he said he’d never heard that ‘a had any surname, and when we asked why, he said he supposed his folks hadn’t been ‘stablished long enough. ‘Ah! you’re the very boy I want!’ says Mr Clare, jumping up and shaking hands wi’en; ‘I’ve great hopes of you;’ and gave him half-a-crown. O no! he can’t stomach old families!’
“克莱尔先生，”奶牛场老板强调道，“是你所知道的最叛逆的罗祖姆之一——一点也不像他家里的其他成员；如果说他确实比另一件事更讨厌一件事，那就是所谓的“古老家庭”的概念。他说，按理说，老家庭过去的工作已经结束了，现在已经没有什么可留下的了。其中有比莱特家族、德伦克哈德家族、格雷家族、圣昆廷家族、哈代家族和古尔德家族，他们曾经拥有这个山谷下几英里的土地；你现在最多可以用一首老歌把它们全部买下来。嗨，我们的小雷蒂·普里德尔，你知道，是帕里德尔家族的一员——这个古老的家族曾经拥有国王辛托克的很多土地，现在由威塞克斯伯爵拥有，甚至在他或他的名字被听说之前的。好吧，克莱尔先生发现了这一点，并连续几天对这个可怜的女孩非常蔑视。 “啊！”他对她说，“你永远成不了一个好的挤奶女工！”你所有的技能很久以前就在巴勒斯坦用完了，你必须休养一千年，才能积蓄力量去做更多的事！”前几天，一个男孩来到这里找工作，说他的名字叫马特，当我们问他姓什么，他说他从来没有听说过“a”有姓氏，当我们问为什么时，他说他认为他的家族“稳定”的时间还不够长。 '啊！你就是我想要的男孩！”克莱尔先生跳起来并与我们握手。 “我对你寄予厚望”，并给了他半个克朗。噢不！他无法忍受老家庭！

After hearing this caricature of Clare’s opinion poor Tess was glad that she had not said a word in a weak moment about her family—even though it was so unusually old almost to have gone round the circle and become a new one. Besides, another diary-girl was as good as she, it seemed, in that respect. She held her tongue about the d’Urberville vault and the Knight of the Conqueror whose name she bore. The insight afforded into Clare’s character suggested to her that it was largely owing to her supposed untraditional newness that she had won interest in his eyes.
听完克莱尔的讽刺漫画后，可怜的苔丝很高兴自己在脆弱的时刻没有对她的家庭说一句话——尽管这个家庭已经异常古老，几乎已经绕了一圈又变成了一个新的家庭。此外，在这方面，另一个日记女孩似乎也和她一样优秀。她对德伯维尔金库和以她的名字命名的征服者骑士保持沉默。对克莱尔性格的洞察表明，她之所以引起他的注意，很大程度上是因为她被认为是非传统的新鲜感。

XX

The season developed and matured. Another year’s instalment of flowers, leaves, nightingales, thrushes, finches, and such ephemeral creatures, took up their positions where only a year ago others had stood in their place when these were nothing more than germs and inorganic particles. Rays from the sunrise drew forth the buds and stretched them into long stalks, lifted up sap in noiseless streams, opened petals, and sucked out scents in invisible jets and breathings.
季节发展并成熟。又一年的花朵、叶子、夜莺、画眉、雀类和这些短暂的生物，占据了一年前其他动物所占据的位置，当时它们只不过是细菌和无机颗粒。日出的光线把花蕾拉出来，把它们拉长成长长的茎，在无声的溪流中升起汁液，打开花瓣，在看不见的喷射和呼吸中吸出气味。

Dairyman Crick’s household of maids and men lived on comfortably, placidly, even merrily. Their position was perhaps the happiest of all positions in the social scale, being above the line at which neediness ends, and below the line at which the convenances begin to cramp natural feelings, and the stress of threadbare modishness makes too little of enough.
奶牛场老板克里克的女仆和男人一家人过着舒适、平静、甚至快乐的生活。他们的地位也许是社会阶层中所有地位中最幸福的，高于贫困线结束的界限，低于习俗开始束缚自然情感的界限，而陈旧时尚的压力却显得不够。

Thus passed the leafy time when arborescence seems to be the one thing aimed at out of doors. Tess and Clare unconsciously studied each other, ever balanced on the edge of a passion, yet apparently keeping out of it. All the while they were converging, under an irresistible law, as surely as two streams in one vale.
就这样，树木茂盛的时代已经过去了，那时树木生长似乎是户外的唯一目标。苔丝和克莱尔不自觉地互相打量着对方，总是在激情的边缘保持平衡，但显然又不参与其中。一直以来，它们都在一种不可抗拒的法则之下汇聚在一起，就像两条溪流汇入一个山谷一样。

Tess had never in her recent life been so happy as she was now, possibly never would be so happy again. She was, for one thing, physically and mentally suited among these new surroundings. The sapling which had rooted down to a poisonous stratum on the spot of its sowing had been transplanted to a deeper soil. Moreover she, and Clare also, stood as yet on the debatable land between predilection and love; where no profundities have been reached; no reflections have set in, awkwardly inquiring, ‘Whither does this new current tend to carry me? What does it mean to my future? How does it stand towards my past?’
苔丝这辈子从来没有像现在这样幸福过，也许永远也不会再像现在这样幸福了。一方面，她在身体和精神上都适合这些新环境。播种时已在有毒地层扎根的树苗被移植到更深的土壤中。此外，她和克莱尔还站在偏爱和爱情之间有争议的立场上。尚未达到深度的地方；没有任何反思，尴尬地问道：‘这股新潮流会把我带到哪里？这对我的未来意味着什么？我的过去怎么样？

Tess was the merest stray phenomenon to Angel Clare as yet—a rosy, warming apparition which had only just acquired the attribute of persistence in his consciousness. So he allowed his mind to be occupied with her, deeming his preoccupation to be no more than a philosopher’s regard of an exceedingly novel, fresh, and interesting specimen of womankind.
对于安吉尔·克莱尔来说，苔丝迄今为止只是一个最流浪的现象——一个玫瑰色、温暖的幽灵，刚刚在他的意识中获得了持久的属性。于是他让自己的心思全神贯注于她，认为他的关注不过是哲学家对一个极其新颖、新鲜和有趣的女性典范的看法。

They met continually; they could not help it. They met daily in that strange and solemn interval, the twilight of the morning, in the violet or pink dawn; for it was necessary to rise early, so very early, here. Milking was done betimes; and before the milking came the skimming, which began at a little past three. It usually fell to the lot of some one or other of them to wake the rest, the first being aroused by an alarm-clock; and, as Tess was the latest arrival, and they soon discovered that she could be depended upon not to sleep though the alarm as others did, this task was thrust most frequently upon her. No sooner had the hour of three struck and whizzed, than she left her room and ran to the dairyman’s door; then up the ladder to Angel’s, calling him in a loud whisper; then woke her fellow-milkmaids. By the time that Tess was dressed Clare was downstairs and out in the humid air. The remaining maids and the dairyman usually gave themselves another turn on the pillow, and did not appear till a quarter of an hour later.
他们不断地见面；他们无法控制。他们每天都在那个奇怪而庄严的时间里见面，在黎明的黄昏，在紫罗兰色或粉红色的黎明；因为在这里必须早起，而且非常早。挤奶及时进行；挤奶之前，是三点多一点开始的脱脂。通常由他们中的某个人来叫醒其他人，第一个被闹钟叫醒；而第一个被闹钟叫醒的人则被叫醒。由于苔丝是最后到的，他们很快就发现她不会像其他人一样在闹钟响时睡觉，所以这项任务最常被推到她身上。三点钟一敲，呼啸而过，她就离开房间，跑到奶牛场门口。然后爬上梯子到安吉尔家，大声低声呼唤他。然后叫醒了她的挤奶女工同伴。苔丝穿好衣服的时候，克莱尔已经下楼了，站在潮湿的空气中。剩下的女仆和奶牛场老板通常会在枕头上再转一圈，直到一刻钟后才出现。

The gray half-tones of daybreak are not the gray half-tones of the day’s close, though the degree of their shade may be the same. In the twilight of the morning, light seems active, darkness passive; in the twilight of evening it is the darkness which is active and crescent, and the light which is the drowsy reverse.
黎明时分的灰色半色调与当天结束时的灰色半色调不同，尽管它们的阴影程度可能相同。在晨曦中，光似乎是主动的，黑暗是被动的；在傍晚的暮色中，黑暗是活跃的新月形，而光明则是昏昏欲睡的反面。

Being so often—possibly not always by chance—the first two persons to get up at the dairy-house, they seemed to themselves the first persons up of all the world. In these early days of her residence here Tess did not skim, but went out of doors at once after rising, where he was generally awaiting her. The spectral, half-compounded, aqueous light which pervaded the open mead impressed them with a feeling of isolation, as if they were Adam and Eve. At this dim inceptive stage of the day Tess seemed to Clare to exhibit a dignified largeness both of disposition and physique, an almost regnant power, possibly because he knew that at that preternatural time hardly any woman so well endowed in person as she was likely to be walking in the open air within the boundaries of his horizon; very few in all England. Fair women are usually asleep at mid-summer dawns. She was close at hand, and the rest were nowhere.
他们经常——也许并不总是偶然——是奶牛场最先起床的两个人，他们自己似乎是世界上最先起床的人。苔丝刚住在这里的那些日子里，并没有溜达，而是起床后立即走出家门，他通常在那里等她。弥漫在开阔的草地上的半合成的光谱水光给他们留下了一种孤立的感觉，仿佛他们是亚当和夏娃。在克莱尔看来，在这个朦胧的初始阶段，苔丝在性格和体格上都表现出了一种庄严的伟大，一种几乎统治的力量，可能是因为他知道，在那个超自然的时代，几乎没有哪个女人像她一样拥有如此多的天赋。在地平线范围内的露天行走；全英格兰很少。美丽的女人通常在仲夏的黎明时入睡。她就在附近，其他人却无处可去。

The mixed, singular, luminous gloom in which they walked along together to the spot where the cows lay often made him think of the Resurrection hour. He little thought that the Magdalen might be at his side. Whilst all the landscape was in neutral shade his companion’s face, which was the focus of his eyes, rising above the mist stratum, seemed to have a sort of phosphorescence upon it. She looked ghostly, as if she were merely a soul at large. In reality her face, without appearing to do so, had caught the cold gleam of day from the north-east; his own face, though he did not think of it, wore the same aspect to her.
他们一起走到牛躺着的​​地方，在这种混合的、奇异的、明亮的阴暗气氛中，常常让他想起复活的时刻。他几乎没有想到抹大拉的人可能就在他身边。当所有的风景都是中性色调时，他同伴的脸，也就是他眼睛的焦点，升在雾层之上，似乎有一种磷光。她看起来就像幽灵一样，仿佛只是一个灵魂。事实上，她的脸虽然表面上看不出如此，但却沐浴在来自东北方向的寒冷的阳光下。他自己的脸，虽然他没有想到，但对她来说却是同样的表情。

It was then, as has been said, that she impressed him most deeply. She was no longer the milkmaid, but a visionary essence of woman—a whole sex condensed into one typical form. He called her Artemis, Demeter, and other fanciful names half teasingly, which she did not like because she did not understand them.
正如前面所说，正是在那时，她给他留下了最深刻的印象。她不再是挤奶女工，而是女性的幻想本质——整个性别凝结成一种典型的形式。他半开玩笑地叫她阿耳忒弥斯、德墨忒尔以及其他一些奇特的名字，但她不喜欢这些名字，因为她听不懂这些名字。

‘Call me Tess,’ she would say askance; and he did.
“叫我苔丝吧，”她斜眼说道。他做到了。

Then it would grow lighter, and her features would become simply feminine; they had changed from those of a divinity who could confer bliss to those of a being who craved it.
然后它会变得更轻，她的容貌会变得纯粹的女性化；他们已经从能够赐予幸福的神灵变成了渴望幸福的众生。

At these non-human hours they could get quite close to the waterfowl. Herons came, with a great bold noise as of opening doors and shutters, out of the boughs of a plantation which they frequented at the side of the mead; or, if already on the spot, hardily maintained their standing in the water as the pair walked by, watching them by moving their heads round in a slow, horizontal, passionless wheel, like the turn of puppets by clockwork.
在这些非人类时间里，他们可以非常接近水禽。苍鹭从它们常去的蜂蜜酒旁边的种植园的树枝上飞出来，发出巨大的声音，就像打开门和百叶窗一样。或者，如果已经在现场，当两人走过时，他们几乎无法在水中保持站立，通过缓慢、水平、冷漠的轮子转动头部来观察他们，就像发条的木偶转动一样。

They could then see the faint summer fogs in layers, woolly, level, and apparently no thicker than counterpanes, spread about the meadows in detached remnants of small extent. On the gray moisture of the grass were marks where the cows had lain through the night—dark-green islands of dry herbage the size of their carcasses, in the general sea of dew. From each island proceeded a serpentine trail, by which the cow had rambled away to feed after getting up, at the end of which trail they found her; the snoring puff from her nostrils, when she recognized them, making an intenser little fog of her own amid the prevailing one. Then they drove the animals back to the barton, or sat down to milk them on the spot, as the case might require.
然后，他们可以看到微弱的夏季雾气，一层层地、绵绵地、水平地、显然不比床罩厚，在草地上以小范围的分离残留物散布开来。草地上灰色的湿气上有奶牛过夜的痕迹——在露水的海洋中，深绿色的干草岛有它们的尸体那么大。从每个岛屿出发，都有一条蜿蜒的小路，牛起床后就沿着小路漫步去吃草，在小路的尽头，他们找到了她；当她认出他们时，鼻孔里发出鼾声，在盛行的雾气中制造出一层更浓烈的小雾气。然后，他们将动物赶回巴顿，或者坐下来现场挤奶，视情况而定。

Or perhaps the summer fog was more general, and the meadows lay like a white sea, out of which the scattered trees rose like dangerous rocks. Birds would soar through it into the upper radiance, and hang on the wing sunning themselves, or alight on the wet rails subdividing the mead, which now shone like glass rods. Minute diamonds of moisture from the mist hung, too, upon Tess’s eyelashes, and drops upon her hair, like seed pearls. When the day grew quite strong and commonplace these dried off her; moreover, Tess then lost her strange and ethereal beauty; her teeth, lips, and eyes scintillated in the sunbeams and she was again the dazzlingly fair dairymaid only, who had to hold her own against the other women of the world.
或许夏季的雾气更普遍，草地像一片白色的海洋，散落的树木像危险的岩石一样从海中升起。鸟儿会飞过它，飞到上面的光辉中，挂在翅膀上晒太阳，或者停在分割蜂蜜酒的潮湿轨道上，现在蜂蜜酒像玻璃棒一样闪闪发光。苔丝的睫毛上也挂着雾气中的微小钻石般的湿气，滴在她的头发上，就像种子珍珠一样。当天气变得非常强烈并且司空见惯时，这些东西就把她擦干了。不仅如此，苔丝也失去了她那奇异而空灵的美丽。她的牙齿、嘴唇和眼睛在阳光下闪闪发光，她又是那个美丽得令人眼花缭乱的挤奶女工，她必须在与世界上其他女人的竞争中保持自己的地位。

About this time they would hear Dairyman Crick’s voice, lecturing the non-resident milkers for arriving late, and speaking sharply to old Deborah Fyander for not washing her hands.
大约在这个时候，他们会听到奶牛场老板克里克的声音，他斥责非居民挤奶工迟到，并严厉斥责老黛博拉·费德没有洗手。

‘For Heaven’s sake, pop thy hands under the pump, Deb! Upon my soul, if the London folk only knowed of thee and thy slovenly ways, they’d swaller their milk and butter more mincing than they do a’ready; and that’s saying a good deal.’
“看在上帝的份上，把手伸到水泵下面吧，黛布！”我以我的灵魂发誓，如果伦敦人只知道你和你不修边幅的方式，他们就会比准备好的时候更加扭捏地吞下牛奶和黄油；这说明了很多事情。

The milking progressed, till towards the end Tess and Clare, in common with the rest, could hear the heavy breakfast table dragged out from the wall in the kitchen by Mrs Crick, this being the invariable preliminary to each meal; the same horrible scrape accompanying its return journey when the table had been cleared.
挤奶继续进行，直到最后，苔丝和克莱尔和其他人一样，都能听到克里克太太把沉重的早餐桌从厨房的墙上拖出来，这是每顿饭的不变的准备；当桌子被清理干净后，同样可怕的刮擦伴随着它的回程。

XXI
二十一

There was a great stir in the milk-house just after breakfast. The churn revolved as usual, but the butter would not come. Whenever this happened the dairy was paralyzed. Squish, squash echoed the milk in the great cylinder, but never arose the sound they waited for.
早餐刚吃完，牛奶屋里就热闹起来。搅拌器像往常一样旋转，但黄油没有出来。每当这种情况发生时，乳制品厂就会瘫痪。挤压、挤压与大圆筒里的牛奶相呼应，但他们等待的声音却始终没有出现。

Dairyman Crick and his wife, the milkmaids Tess, Marian, Retty Priddle, Izz Huett, and the married ones from the cottages; also Mr Clare, Jonathan Kail, old Deborah, and the rest, stood gazing hopelessly at the churn; and the boy who kept the horse going outside put on moon-like eyes to show his sense of the situation. Even the melancholy horse himself seemed to look in at the window in inquiring despair at each walk round.
奶牛场老板克里克和他的妻子，挤奶女工苔丝、玛丽安、雷蒂·普里德尔、伊兹·休特，以及小屋里的已婚妇女；克莱尔先生、乔纳森·凯尔、老黛博拉和其他人也站在那里，绝望地注视着搅拌机。那个牵着马往外走的男孩，也露出了月亮般的眼睛，以表明他对形势的感知。就连那匹忧郁的马，每次走一圈，都似乎绝望地望着窗外。

‘‘Tis years since I went to Conjuror Trendle’s son in Egdon—years!’ said the dairyman bitterly. ‘And he was nothing to what his father had been. I have said fifty times, if I have said once, that I DON’T believe in en; though ‘a do cast folks’ waters very true. But I shall have to go to ‘n if he’s alive. O yes, I shall have to go to ‘n, if this sort of thing continnys!’
“自从我去埃格顿拜访魔术师特伦德尔的儿子已经很多年了——很多年了！”奶牛场老板痛苦地说。 “而他与他​​父亲相比根本算不了什么。如果我说过一次的话，我已经说过五十次了，我不相信en；尽管“阿杜铸造了人们”的水非常真实。但如果他还活着，我就得去一趟。哦，是的，我必须去“n，如果这种事情持续发生！”

Even Mr Clare began to feel tragical at the dairyman’s desperation.
就连克莱尔先生也开始对奶牛场老板的绝望感到悲哀。

‘Conjuror Fall, t’other side of Casterbridge, that they used to call ‘Wide-O’, was a very good man when I was a boy,’ said Jonathan Kail. ‘But he’s rotten as touchwood by now.’
“魔术师法尔，在卡斯特桥的另一边，人们过去称之为‘Wide-O’，当我还是个孩子的时候，他是一个非常好的人，”乔纳森·凯尔说。 “但他现在已经烂得像木头了。”

‘My grandfather used to go to Conjuror Mynterne, out at Owlscombe, and a clever man a’ were, so I’ve heard grandf’er say,’ continued Mr Crick. ‘But there’s no such genuine folk about nowadays!’
“我的祖父曾经去过奥尔斯科姆的魔术师米特恩，他是一个聪明人，所以我听祖父说，”克里克先生继续说道。 “但是现在已经没有这么真诚的人了！”

Mrs Crick’s mind kept nearer to the matter in hand.
克里克夫人的心思越来越集中在手头的事情上。

‘Perhaps somebody in the house is in love,’ she said tentatively. ‘I’ve heard tell in my younger days that that will cause it. Why, Crick—that maid we had years ago, do ye mind, and how the butter didn’t come then—‘
“也许家里有人恋爱了，”她试探性地说。 “我年轻时就听人说这会导致这种情况。为什么，克里克——我们几年前的那个女仆，你介意吗？那时黄油怎么还没来——”

‘Ah yes, yes!—but that isn’t the rights o’t. It had nothing to do with the love-making. I can mind all about it—‘twas the damage to the churn.’
“啊，是的，是的！——但这不是我们的权利。”这与做爱无关。我可以介意这一切——“这是对搅拌造成的损害。”

He turned to Clare.
他转向克莱尔。

‘Jack Dollop, a ‘hore’s-bird of a fellow we had here as milker at one time, sir, courted a young woman over at Mellstock, and deceived her as he had deceived many afore. But he had another sort o’ woman to reckon wi’ this time, and it was not the girl herself. One Holy Thursday of all days in the almanack, we was here as we mid be now, only there was no churning in hand, when we zid the girl’s mother coming up to the door, wi’ a great brass-mounted umbrella in her hand that would ha’ felled an ox, and saying ‘Do Jack Dollop work here?—because I want him! I have a big bone to pick with he, I can assure ‘n!’ And some way behind her mother walked Jack’s young woman, crying bitterly into her handkercher. ‘O Lard, here’s a time!’ said Jack, looking out o’ winder at ‘em. ‘She’ll murder me! Where shall I get—where shall I—? Don’t tell her where I be!’ And with that he scrambled into the churn through the trap-door, and shut himself inside, just as the young woman’s mother busted into the milk-house. ‘The villain—where is he?’ says she. ‘I’ll claw his face for’n, let me only catch him!’ Well, she hunted about everywhere, ballyragging Jack by side and by seam, Jack lying a’most stifled inside the churn, and the poor maid—or young woman rather—standing at the door crying her eyes out. I shall never forget it, never! ‘Twould have melted a marble stone! But she couldn’t find him nowhere at all.’
“先生，杰克·多洛普，一个我们这里曾经当挤奶工的‘家禽’，在梅尔斯托克向一位年轻女子求爱，并像以前欺骗许多人一样欺骗了她。但这次他要考虑的是另一种女人，而且不是那个女孩本人。年鉴中所有日子中的一个神圣星期四，我们就像现在一样在这里，只是当我们手上没有搅拌时，女孩的母亲手里拿着一把巨大的黄铜伞，来到门口那会砍倒一头牛，然后说：“杰克·多洛普在这里工作吗？——因为我想要他！”我对他有很大的不满，我可以保证“n！”在她母亲后面不远的地方，杰克的年轻女人走过来，用手帕痛哭。 “噢，猪油，现在是时候了！”杰克一边说，一边看着他们。 ‘她会杀了我！我该去哪里——我该去哪里——？不要告诉她我在哪里！”说完，他就从活板门爬进搅拌机，把自己关在里面，正当年轻女子的母亲冲进牛奶房的时候。 “那个恶棍——他在哪里？”她说。 “我要抓破他的脸，让我抓住他！”好吧，她四处寻找，把杰克并排撕扯着，杰克躺在搅拌器里，几乎窒息，可怜的女仆——或者说年轻的女仆。更确切地说，是一个女人——站在门口哭得眼睛都肿了。我永远不会忘记它，永远不会！ ‘两个人就能融化一块大理石！但她根本找不到他。

The dairyman paused, and one or two words of comment came from the listeners.
奶牛场老板停了下来，听众中传来一两句话的评论。

Dairyman Crick’s stories often seemed to be ended when they were not really so, and strangers were betrayed into premature interjections of finality; though old friends knew better. The narrator went on—
奶牛场老板克里克的故事常常看似结束了，但实际上并非如此，而陌生人也被背叛，过早地感叹了结局。尽管老朋友更了解。解说员继续说道——

‘Well, how the old woman should have had the wit to guess it I could never tell, but she found out that he was inside that there churn. Without saying a word she took hold of the winch (it was turned by handpower then), and round she swung him, and Jack began to flop about inside. ‘O Lard! stop the churn! let me out!’ says he, popping out his head. ‘I shall be churned into a pummy!’ (He was a cowardly chap in his heart, as such men mostly be). ‘Not till ye make amends for ravaging her virgin innocence!’ says the old woman. ‘Stop the churn you old witch!’ screams he. ‘You call me old witch, do ye, you deceiver!’ says she, ‘when ye ought to ha’ been calling me mother-law these last five months!’ And on went the churn, and Jack’s bones rattled round again. Well, none of us ventured to interfere; and at last ‘a promised to make it right wi’ her. ‘Yes—I’ll be as good as my word!’ he said. And so it ended that day.’
“嗯，我永远也说不出来那个老妇人怎么会有智慧猜到，但她发现他就在那个搅动的地方。她一言不发地抓住了绞盘（当时是用手转动的），然后她把他转了过来，杰克开始在里面扑腾。 ‘猪油啊！停止搅动！ “放我出去！”他伸出头说道。 “我会被搅成一团泥！”（他内心深处是一个胆怯的小伙子，大多数这样的人都是如此）。 “除非你们为破坏她的童真做出补偿！”老妇人说道。 “停止搅动你这个老巫婆！”他尖叫道。 “你叫我老巫婆，你这个骗子！”她说，“在过去的五个月里，你本应该叫我婆婆的！”然后，搅动继续下去，杰克的骨头又嘎嘎作响了。好吧，我们谁也不敢干涉。最后“答应和她一起改正”。 “是的——我会说到做到！”他说。那天就这样结束了。”

While the listeners were smiling their comments there was a quick movement behind their backs, and they looked round. Tess, pale-faced, had gone to the door.
当听众微笑着发表评论时，他们的背后有一个快速的动作，他们环顾四周。苔丝脸色苍白，走到门口。

‘How warm ‘tis to-day!’ she said, almost inaudibly.
“今天多暖和啊！”她声音几乎听不见。

It was warm, and none of them connected her withdrawal with the reminiscences of the dairyman. He went forward and opened the door for her, saying with tender raillery—
天气很温暖，他们都没有把她的退缩与奶牛场老板的回忆联系起来。他走上前，为她打开门，轻声调侃道——

‘Why, maidy’ (he frequently, with unconscious irony, gave her this pet name), ‘the prettiest milker I’ve got in my dairy; you mustn’t get so fagged as this at the first breath of summer weather, or we shall be finely put to for want of ‘ee by dog-days, shan’t we, Mr Clare?’
“哎呀，姑娘”（他常常带着无意识的讽刺，给她起了这个昵称），“我奶牛场里最漂亮的挤奶工；她是我的奶牛场里最漂亮的挤奶工；”夏天一到，你就不能这么疲惫不堪，否则我们会因为“三伏天缺水，不是吗，克莱尔先生？”而陷入困境。

‘I was faint—and—I think I am better out o’ doors,’ she said mechanically; and disappeared outside.
“我晕了——而且——我想我在户外比较好，”她机械地说。然后消失在外面。

Fortunately for her the milk in the revolving churn at that moment changed its squashing for a decided flick-flack.
对她来说幸运的是，那一刻旋转搅拌器中的牛奶改变了它的挤压状态，变成了明显的轻弹。

‘‘Tis coming!’ cried Mrs Crick, and the attention of all was called off from Tess.
“来了！”克里克太太喊道，所有人的注意力都从苔丝身上转移了。

That fair sufferer soon recovered herself externally; but she remained much depressed all the afternoon. When the evening milking was done she did not care to be with the rest of them, and went out of doors, wandering along she knew not whither. She was wretched—O so wretched—at the perception that to her companions the dairyman’s story had been rather a humorous narration than otherwise; none of them but herself seemed to see the sorrow of it; to a certainty, not one knew how cruelly it touched the tender place in her experience. The evening sun was now ugly to her, like a great inflamed wound in the sky. Only a solitary cracked-voice reed-sparrow greeted her from the bushes by the river, in a sad, machine-made tone, resembling that of a past friend whose friendship she had outworn.
那个漂亮的病人很快就从外表上恢复了过来。但整个下午她都非常沮丧。晚上挤完奶后，她懒得和其他人在一起，就走出门去，徘徊着，不知道要去哪里。她感到很不幸——哦，太不幸了——因为她认为，对她的同伴来说，奶牛场老板的故事只是一种幽默的叙述，而不是其他的故事。除了她自己之外，他们中没有一个人看到了其中的悲伤。可以肯定的是，没有人知道这对她经历中的温柔之处是多么残酷。傍晚的太阳现在对她来说很难看，就像天空中一道发炎的伤口。只有一只孤独的、声音嘶哑的芦苇麻雀在河边的灌木丛中向她打招呼，声音悲伤、机械，就像一位过去的朋友，但她的友谊已经过时了。

In these long June days the milkmaids, and, indeed, most of the household, went to bed at sunset or sooner, the morning work before milking being so early and heavy at a time of full pails. Tess usually accompanied her fellows upstairs. To-night, however, she was the first to go to their common chamber; and she had dozed when the other girls came in. She saw them undressing in the orange light of the vanished sun, which flushed their forms with its colour; she dozed again, but she was reawakened by their voices, and quietly turned her eyes towards them.
在这漫长的六月日子里，挤奶女工，事实上，大多数家庭成员，在日落或更早的时候就上床睡觉了，挤奶前的早晨工作是如此之早，而且在装满桶的时候又如此繁重。苔丝通常陪着她的同伴上楼。然而今晚，她第一个去了他们的公共休息室。当其他女孩进来时，她已经打瞌睡了。她看到她们在消失的太阳的橙色光芒下脱掉衣服，阳光把她们的身子染红了。她再次打瞌睡，却被他们的声音吵醒，悄悄将目光转向他们。

Neither of her three chamber-companions had got into bed. They were standing in a group, in their nightgowns, barefooted, at the window, the last red rays of the west still warming their faces and necks and the walls around them. All were watching somebody in the garden with deep interest, their three faces close together: a jovial and round one, a pale one with dark hair, and a fair one whose tresses were auburn.
她的三个室友都没有上床睡觉。他们一群人穿着睡衣，赤脚站在窗前，西边最后的红色阳光仍然温暖着他们的脸、脖子和周围的墙壁。所有人都饶有兴趣地看着花园里的某个人，他们的三张脸靠得很近：一张是快乐的圆脸，一张是深色头发的苍白脸，一张是赤褐色的金发。

‘Don’t push! You can see as well as I,’ said Retty, the auburn-haired and youngest girl, without removing her eyes from the window.
‘别推！你和我一样看得见。”赤褐色头发的最小女孩雷蒂说道，她的眼睛仍然没有离开窗户。

‘‘Tis no use for you to be in love with him any more than me, Retty Priddle,’ said jolly-faced Marian, the eldest, slily. ‘His thoughts be of other cheeks than thine!’
“雷蒂·普里德尔，你爱他和爱我一样没有用，”长着一张快乐脸的大女儿玛丽安狡猾地说。 “他的想法不同于你的脸颊！”

Retty Priddle still looked, and the others looked again.
雷蒂·普里德尔仍然看着，其他人又看了一遍。

‘There he is again!’ cried Izz Huett, the pale girl with dark damp hair and keenly cut lips.
“他又来了！”伊兹·休特喊道，她是一个脸色苍白、头发湿漉漉、嘴唇锐利的女孩。

‘You needn’t say anything, Izz,’ answered Retty. ‘For I zid you kissing his shade.’
“你什么都不用说，伊兹，”雷蒂回答。 “因为我发现你亲吻了他的影子。”

‘WHAT did you see her doing?’ asked Marian.
“你看到她在做什么？”玛丽安问。

‘Why—he was standing over the whey-tub to let off the whey, and the shade of his face came upon the wall behind, close to Izz, who was standing there filling a vat. She put her mouth against the wall and kissed the shade of his mouth; I zid her, though he didn’t.’
“为什么——他正站在乳清桶旁排出乳清，他脸的阴影落在后面的墙上，靠近伊兹，伊兹正站在那里装满一个桶。她把嘴靠在墙上，吻了吻他的唇色。我对她说，但他没有。

‘O Izz Huett!’ said Marian.
“哦，伊兹·休特！”玛丽安说。

A rosy spot came into the middle of Izz Huett’s cheek.
伊兹·休特的脸颊中央出现了一个红点。

‘Well, there was no harm in it,’ she declared, with attempted coolness. ‘And if I be in love wi’en, so is Retty, too; and so be you, Marian, come to that.’
“嗯，这没什么坏处，”她宣称，试图保持冷静。 “如果我爱上了维恩，雷蒂也会爱上；所以，玛丽安，你也来吧。”

Marian’s full face could not blush past its chronic pinkness.
玛丽安的整张脸都红得不能再红了。

‘I!’ she said. ‘What a tale! Ah, there he is again! Dear eyes—dear face—dear Mr Clare!’
“我！”她说。 ‘多么美妙的故事啊！啊，他又来了！亲爱的眼睛——亲爱的脸——亲爱的克莱尔先生！

‘There—you’ve owned it!’
“瞧——你已经拥有它了！”

‘So have you—so have we all,’ said Marian, with the dry frankness of complete indifference to opinion. ‘It is silly to pretend otherwise amongst ourselves, though we need not own it to other folks. I would just marry ‘n to-morrow!’
“你也是——我们大家也是。”玛丽安说道，语气中带着对意见完全漠不关心的干巴巴坦率。 “在我们自己之间假装不这样是愚蠢的，尽管我们不需要向其他人承认这一点。我明天就结婚！

‘So would I—and more,’ murmured Izz Huett.
“我也会——而且还会更多，”伊兹·休特低声说道。

‘And I too,’ whispered the more timid Retty.
“我也是，”胆怯的雷蒂低声说道。

The listener grew warm.
听者变得温暖起来。

‘We can’t all marry him,’ said Izz.
“我们不能都嫁给他，”伊兹说。

‘We shan’t, either of us; which is worse still,’ said the eldest. ‘There he is again!’
“我们都不会，我们都不会；更糟糕的是，”最年长的说。 “他又来了！”

They all three blew him a silent kiss.
三人无声地给了他一个飞吻。

‘Why?’ asked Retty quickly.
“为什么？”雷蒂很快问道。

‘Because he likes Tess Durbeyfield best,’ said Marian, lowering her voice. ‘I have watched him every day, and have found it out.’
“因为他最喜欢苔丝·德北菲尔德。”玛丽安压低了声音说道。 “我每天都观察他，并且发现了这一点。”

There was a reflective silence.
一阵沉思的沉默。

‘But she don’t care anything for ‘n?’ at length breathed Retty.
“但她对‘n’什么都不关心？”最后，雷蒂叹了口气。

‘Well—I sometimes think that too.’
“嗯——我有时也这么想。”

‘But how silly all this is!’ said Izz Huett impatiently. ‘Of course he won’t marry any one of us, or Tess either—a gentleman’s son, who’s going to be a great landowner and farmer abroad! More likely to ask us to come wi’en as farm-hands at so much a year!’
“但这一切是多么愚蠢啊！”伊兹·休特不耐烦地说。 “他当然不会嫁给我们中的任何一个人，也不会嫁给苔丝——一位绅士的儿子，他将在国外成为一位伟大的地主和农民！”更有可能要求我们每年都去当农场工人！

One sighed, and another sighed, and Marian’s plump figure sighed biggest of all. Somebody in bed hard by sighed too. Tears came into the eyes of Retty Priddle, the pretty red-haired youngest—the last bud of the Paridelles, so important in the county annals. They watched silently a little longer, their three faces still close together as before, and the triple hues of their hair mingling. But the unconscious Mr Clare had gone indoors, and they saw him no more; and, the shades beginning to deepen, they crept into their beds. In a few minutes they heard him ascend the ladder to his own room. Marian was soon snoring, but Izz did not drop into forgetfulness for a long time. Retty Priddle cried herself to sleep.
一个人叹了口气，另一个人叹了口气，而玛丽安丰满的身材叹息得最厉害。床上有人也硬着头皮叹了口气。雷蒂·普里德尔 (Retty Priddle) 的眼里涌出了泪水，她是漂亮的红发最小的孩子——帕里德尔家族的最后一个花蕾，在县志中如此重要。他们静静地看了一会儿，三张脸仍然像以前一样靠在一起，头发的三色混合在一起。但昏迷不醒的克莱尔先生已经进屋了，他们再也看不见他了。阴影开始加深，他们爬上了床。几分钟后，他们听到他爬上梯子回到自己的房间。玛丽安很快就打起了呼噜，但伊兹却久久没有陷入健忘状态。雷蒂·普里德尔哭着睡着了。

The deeper-passioned Tess was very far from sleeping even then. This conversation was another of the bitter pills she had been obliged to swallow that day. Scarce the least feeling of jealousy arose in her breast. For that matter she knew herself to have the preference. Being more finely formed, better educated, and, though the youngest except Retty, more woman than either, she perceived that only the slightest ordinary care was necessary for holding her own in Angel Clare’s heart against these her candid friends. But the grave question was, ought she to do this? There was, to be sure, hardly a ghost of a chance for either of them, in a serious sense; but there was, or had been, a chance of one or the other inspiring him with a passing fancy for her, and enjoying the pleasure of his attentions while he stayed here. Such unequal attachments had led to marriage; and she had heard from Mrs Crick that Mr Clare had one day asked, in a laughing way, what would be the use of his marrying a fine lady, and all the while ten thousand acres of Colonial pasture to feed, and cattle to rear, and corn to reap. A farm-woman would be the only sensible kind of wife for him. But whether Mr Clare had spoken seriously or not, why should she, who could never conscientiously allow any man to marry her now, and who had religiously determined that she never would be tempted to do so, draw off Mr Clare’s attention from other women, for the brief happiness of sunning herself in his eyes while he remained at Talbothays?
即使在那时，热情更深的苔丝还远远没有睡着。这次谈话是她那天不得不吞下的又一颗苦果。她的胸中几乎没有升起一丝嫉妒的感觉。就此而言，她知道自己有优先权。她身材更加匀称，受过更好的教育，虽然她是除了雷蒂之外最年轻的，但也比她们两个都更有女人味，她认为，在安吉尔·克莱尔的心中，与这些坦诚的朋友相比，她只需要最轻微的普通照顾就可以保持自己的地位。但严重的问题是，她应该这样做吗？可以肯定的是，从严肃的意义上来说，他们俩几乎没有任何机会。但曾经或曾经有过这样的机会，其中之一激发了他对她的一时的幻想，并在他留在这里的时候享受他的关注的乐趣。这种不平等的依恋导致了婚姻。她从克里克太太那里听说，克莱尔先生有一天笑着问，他娶了一位漂亮的女士，同时还要饲养一万英亩的殖民地牧场，养牛，有什么用呢？和玉米去收割。对他来说，农妇是唯一明智的妻子。但无论克莱尔先生说得是否认真，她现在决不能认真地允许任何男人娶她，而且虔诚地决定她永远不会受诱惑这样做，为什么她要转移克莱尔先生对其他女人的注意力呢？为了当他留在塔尔博塞斯时，在他眼中晒太阳的短暂幸福？

XXII
二十二

They came downstairs yawning next morning; but skimming and milking were proceeded with as usual, and they went indoors to breakfast. Dairyman Crick was discovered stamping about the house. He had received a letter, in which a customer had complained that the butter had a twang.
第二天早上，他们打着哈欠下楼。但脱脂和挤奶还是照常进行，然后他们就进屋吃早餐了。奶牛场老板克里克被发现在房子里跺脚。他收到了一封信，其中一位顾客抱怨黄油有味道。

‘And begad, so ‘t have!’ said the dairyman, who held in his left hand a wooden slice on which a lump of butter was stuck. ‘Yes—taste for yourself!’
“乞求，所以不要！”奶牛场老板说，他左手拿着一块木片，上面粘着一块黄油。 “是的——你自己尝尝吧！”

Several of them gathered round him; and Mr Clare tasted, Tess tasted, also the other indoor milkmaids, one or two of the milking-men, and last of all Mrs Crick, who came out from the waiting breakfast-table. There certainly was a twang.
有几个人聚集在他周围。克莱尔先生尝了，苔丝也尝了，还有其他室内挤奶女工，一两个挤奶工，最后是克里克太太，她从等待早餐的餐桌上走出来。确实有一声鼻音。

The dairyman, who had thrown himself into abstraction to better realize the taste, and so divine the particular species of noxious weed to which it appertained, suddenly exclaimed—
奶牛场老板全神贯注地想更好地体会这种味道，并因此推测出它所属的有毒杂草的特殊种类，突然惊呼道：

‘‘Tis garlic! and I thought there wasn’t a blade left in that mead!’
‘这是大蒜！我以为那蜂蜜酒里已经没有刀片了！”

Then all the old hands remembered that a certain dry mead, into which a few of the cows had been admitted of late, had, in years gone by, spoilt the butter in the same way. The dairyman had not recognized the taste at that time, and thought the butter bewitched.
然后所有的老手都想起了某种干蜂蜜酒，最近有几头奶牛被允许喝进去，在过去的几年里，它也以同样的方式破坏了黄油。当时，奶牛场老板还没有认出这种黄油的味道，并认为黄油具有魔力。

‘We must overhaul that mead,’ he resumed; ‘this mustn’t continny!’
“我们必须彻底改变那种蜂蜜酒，”他继续说道。 “这不能再继续下去了！”

All having armed themselves with old pointed knives, they went out together. As the inimical plant could only be present in very microscopic dimensions to have escaped ordinary observation, to find it seemed rather a hopeless attempt in the stretch of rich grass before them. However, they formed themselves into line, all assisting, owing to the importance of the search; the dairyman at the upper end with Mr Clare, who had volunteered to help; then Tess, Marian, Izz Huett, and Retty; then Bill Lewell, Jonathan, and the married dairywomen—Beck Knibbs, with her wooly black hair and rolling eyes; and flaxen Frances, consumptive from the winter damps of the water-meads—who lived in their respective cottages.
他们全都拿着旧尖刀，一起出去了。由于这种有害植物只能以非常微观的尺寸存在，无法逃脱普通的观察，因此在他们面前的茂密草丛中找到它似乎是一种无望的尝试。然而，由于搜索的重要性，他们排成一排，大家都在帮忙。奶牛场老板和克莱尔先生站在上层，克莱尔先生自愿帮忙；然后是苔丝、玛丽安、伊兹·休特和雷蒂；然后是比尔·勒厄尔、乔纳森和已婚的挤奶女工贝克·尼布斯，她有着乌黑的头发和翻白眼；还有亚麻色的弗朗西斯，因为冬季水草的潮湿而得了肺痨病——他们住在各自的小屋里。

With eyes fixed upon the ground they crept slowly across a strip of the field, returning a little further down in such a manner that, when they should have finished, not a single inch of the pasture but would have fallen under the eye of some one of them. It was a most tedious business, not more than half a dozen shoots of garlic being discoverable in the whole field; yet such was the herb’s pungency that probably one bite of it by one cow had been sufficient to season the whole dairy’s produce for the day.
他们眼睛盯着地面，慢慢地爬过一小片田野，然后再往下走一点，这样，当他们应该完成时，牧场的每一英寸都不会落在某人的眼皮子底下。其中。这是一件非常乏味的事情，整个地里只能发现不超过六根大蒜芽。然而，这种药草的刺激性如此之大，以至于一头牛咬一口它就足以给当天的整个奶牛场产品调味。

Differing one from another in natures and moods so greatly as they did, they yet formed, bending, a curiously uniform row—automatic, noiseless; and an alien observer passing down the neighbouring lane might well have been excused for massing them as ‘Hodge”. As they crept along, stooping low to discern the plant, a soft yellow gleam was reflected from the buttercups into their shaded faces, giving them an elfish, moonlit aspect, though the sun was pouring upon their backs in all the strength of noon.
尽管他们在性格和情绪上彼此差异如此之大，但他们却排成一排，弯着腰，奇怪地整齐划一——自动的、无声的；如果一个外星观察者沿着邻近的小巷经过，那么他们很可能会被当作“霍奇”来对待。当他们爬行时，弯下腰去辨认植物，柔和的黄色光芒从毛茛反射到他们被遮蔽的脸上，给他们一种精灵般的、月光下的面貌，尽管正午的阳光正倾泻在他们的背上。

Angel Clare, who communistically stuck to his rule of taking part with the rest in everything, glanced up now and then. It was not, of course, by accident that he walked next to Tess.
安吉尔·克莱尔始终坚持共产主义原则，凡事都参与其中，他时不时抬起头来。当然，他走在苔丝身边并非偶然。

‘Well, how are you?’ he murmured.
“嗯，你怎么样？”他低声说道。

‘Very well, thank you, sir,’ she replied demurely.
“好的，谢谢您，先生。”她端庄地回答道。

As they had been discussing a score of personal matters only half-an-hour before, the introductory style seemed a little superfluous. But they got no further in speech just then. They crept and crept, the hem of her petticoat just touching his gaiter, and his elbow sometimes brushing hers. At last the dairyman, who came next, could stand it no longer.
由于半个小时前他们还在讨论一些私人事务，这种介绍性的方式显得有些多余。但他们此时就没有再说话了。他们爬啊爬，她的衬裙下摆刚好碰到他的护腿，他的肘部有时会擦过她的肘部。最后，紧随其后的奶牛场老板再也无法忍受了。

‘Upon my soul and body, this here stooping do fairly make my back open and shut!’ he exclaimed, straightening himself slowly with an excruciated look till quite upright. ‘And you, maidy Tess, you wasn’t well a day or two ago—this will make your head ache finely! Don’t do any more, if you feel fainty; leave the rest to finish it.’
“在我的灵魂和身体上，这里的弯腰确实让我的背部打开和关闭！”他喊道，带着痛苦的表情慢慢地直起身子，直到完全直立起来。 “还有你，苔丝小姐，你一两天前身体不太好——这会让你头疼得很！”如果您感到头晕，请不要再做；让剩下的人完成它。

Dairyman Crick withdrew, and Tess dropped behind. Mr Clare also stepped out of line, and began privateering about for the weed. When she found him near her, her very tension at what she had heard the night before made her the first to speak.
奶牛场老板克里克退出了，苔丝落在后面。克莱尔先生也越出了队伍，开始私掠夺取大麻。当她发现他在她身边时，她对前一天晚上听到的事情感到非常紧张，这让她第一个开口说话。

‘Don’t they look pretty?’ she said.
“它们看起来不漂亮吗？”她说。

‘Who?’
'WHO？'

‘Izzy Huett and Retty.’
“伊兹·休特和雷蒂。”

Tess had moodily decided that either of these maidens would make a good farmer’s wife, and that she ought to recommend them, and obscure her own wretched charms.
苔丝心情郁闷地决定，这两个姑娘中的任何一个都会成为一个好农夫的妻子，她应该推荐她们，并掩盖自己可怜的魅力。

‘Pretty? Well, yes—they are pretty girls—fresh looking. I have often thought so.’
'漂亮的？嗯，是的——她们是漂亮女孩——看起来很清新。我经常这样想。

‘Though, poor dears, prettiness won’t last long!’
“尽管如此，可怜的亲爱的，美丽不会持续太久！”

‘O no, unfortunately.’
“哦，不，不幸的是。”

‘They are excellent dairywomen.’
“她们是优秀的奶牛女工。”

‘Yes: though not better than you.’
“是的，虽然不比你好。”

‘They skim better than I.’
“他们比我浏览得更好。”

‘Do they?’
“是吗？”

Clare remained observing them—not without their observing him.
克莱尔一直在观察他们——他们也在观察他。

‘She is colouring up,’ continued Tess heroically.
“她正在着色，”苔丝英勇地继续说道。

‘Who?’
'WHO？'

‘Retty Priddle.’
“雷蒂·普里德尔。”

‘Oh! Why it that?’
'哦！为什么会这样？

‘Because you are looking at her.’
“因为你正在看着她。”

Self-sacrificing as her mood might be, Tess could not well go further and cry, ‘Marry one of them, if you really do want a dairywoman and not a lady; and don’t think of marrying me!’ She followed Dairyman Crick, and had the mournful satisfaction of seeing that Clare remained behind.
尽管苔丝的心情可能是自我牺牲的，但她不能再进一步哭泣，“如果你真的想要一个挤奶女工而不是一个女士，就嫁给他们中的一个吧；”别想嫁给我！”她跟着奶牛场克里克，看到克莱尔留在后面，心里感到悲伤的满足。

From this day she forced herself to take pains to avoid him—never allowing herself, as formerly, to remain long in his company, even if their juxtaposition were purely accidental. She gave the other three every chance.
从这一天起，她强迫自己煞费苦心地避开他——决不允许自己像以前那样长时间留在他的陪伴下，即使他们的并置纯粹是偶然的。她给了其他三个人一切机会。

Tess was woman enough to realize from their avowals to herself that Angel Clare had the honour of all the dairymaids in his keeping, and her perception of his care to avoid compromising the happiness of either in the least degree bred a tender respect in Tess for what she deemed, rightly or wrongly, the self-controlling sense of duty shown by him, a quality which she had never expected to find in one of the opposite sex, and in the absence of which more than one of the simple hearts who were his house-mates might have gone weeping on her pilgrimage.
苔丝是个足够女人的人，从他们对自己的坦白中认识到，安吉尔·克莱尔享有他所饲养的所有挤奶女工的荣誉，她认为他的照顾避免在最小程度上损害任何一个人的幸福，这让苔丝对她产生了温柔的尊重。无论正确与否，她都认为他表现出的自我控制的责任感，这是她从未想到过在异性身上会发现的一种品质，如果没有这种品质，他的心地单纯的人中不止一个会出现这种品质。室友们可能会在她的朝圣之旅中哭泣。

XXIII
第二十三

The hot weather of July had crept upon them unawares, and the atmosphere of the flat vale hung heavy as an opiate over the dairy-folk, the cows, and the trees. Hot steaming rains fell frequently, making the grass where the cows fed yet more rank, and hindering the late hay-making in the other meads.
七月的炎热天气不知不觉地降临到他们身上，平坦的山谷里的气氛像鸦片一样沉重地笼罩着奶牛场、奶牛和树木。热气腾腾的降雨频繁降临，使奶牛吃草的草变得更加腐烂，并阻碍了其他草地的后期干草制作。

It was Sunday morning; the milking was done; the outdoor milkers had gone home. Tess and the other three were dressing themselves rapidly, the whole bevy having agreed to go together to Mellstock Church, which lay some three or four miles distant from the dairy-house. She had now been two months at Talbothays, and this was her first excursion.
那是周日早上。挤奶已经完成了；户外挤奶工已经回家了。苔丝和另外三个人正在迅速穿好衣服，大家都同意一起去梅尔斯托克教堂，那里距离奶牛场大约有三四英里远。她在塔尔博塞斯已经两个月了，这是她第一次远足。

All the preceding afternoon and night heavy thunderstorms had hissed down upon the meads, and washed some of the hay into the river; but this morning the sun shone out all the more brilliantly for the deluge, and the air was balmy and clear.
之前的整个下午和晚上，猛烈的雷雨嘶嘶地落在草地上，把一些干草冲进了河里。但今天早上，阳光因洪水而显得更加灿烂，空气清新宜人。

The crooked lane leading from their own parish to Mellstock ran along the lowest levels in a portion of its length, and when the girls reached the most depressed spot they found that the result of the rain had been to flood the lane over-shoe to a distance of some fifty yards. This would have been no serious hindrance on a week-day; they would have clicked through it in their high patterns and boots quite unconcerned; but on this day of vanity, this Sun’s-day, when flesh went forth to coquet with flesh while hypocritically affecting business with spiritual things; on this occasion for wearing their white stockings and thin shoes, and their pink, white, and lilac gowns, on which every mud spot would be visible, the pool was an awkward impediment. They could hear the church-bell calling—as yet nearly a mile off.
从她们自己的教区通往梅尔斯托克的那条弯曲的小巷在其部分长度上沿着最低的水平延伸，当女孩们到达最凹陷的地方时，她们发现雨水的结果是，小巷被淹没了，鞋子被淹没了。大约五十码的距离。这在工作日不会构成严重的障碍；他们穿着高高的图案和靴子，会毫不在意地穿过它。但在这个虚荣的日子，这个太阳的日子，肉体对外卖弄肉体，同时虚伪地与属灵的事物做生意。这次他们穿着白色的长袜和薄鞋，穿着粉红色、白色和淡紫色的长袍，上面的每一个泥点都清晰可见，游泳池成了一个尴尬的障碍。他们可以听到教堂的钟声——距离还有近一英里。

‘Who would have expected such a rise in the river in summer-time!’ said Marian, from the top of the roadside bank on which they had climbed, and were maintaining a precarious footing in the hope of creeping along its slope till they were past the pool.
“谁会想到夏天河水会涨得这么厉害！”玛丽安在他们爬上的路边河岸上说道，她的脚步摇摇欲坠，希望能沿着斜坡爬行，直到他们爬上岸。经过游泳池。

‘We can’t get there anyhow, without walking right through it, or else going round the Turnpike way; and that would make us so very late!’ said Retty, pausing hopelessly.
“无论如何，如果不直接穿过它，或者绕过收费公路，我们就无法到达那里；那会让我们迟到的！”雷蒂绝望地停了下来说道。

‘And I do colour up so hot, walking into church late, and all the people staring round,’ said Marian, ‘that I hardly cool down again till we get into the That-it-may-please-Thees.’
“我的脸色确实太热了，走进教堂已经很晚了，所有人都在盯着周围看，”玛丽安说，“在我们进入‘请你好’之前，我很难再冷静下来。”

While they stood clinging to the bank they heard a splashing round the bend of the road, and presently appeared Angel Clare, advancing along the lane towards them through the water.
当他们紧紧抓住岸边站着时，他们听到路拐弯处传来溅水声，不久安吉尔·克莱尔就出现了，沿着小路穿过水向他们走来。

Four hearts gave a big throb simultaneously.
四颗心同时剧烈跳动。

His aspect was probably as un-Sabbatarian a one as a dogmatic parson’s son often presented; his attire being his dairy clothes, long wading boots, a cabbage-leaf inside his hat to keep his head cool, with a thistle-spud to finish him off. ‘He’s not going to church,’ said Marian.
他的外表很可能与教条主义牧师的儿子经常表现出的不守安息日的样子一样。他的着装是奶制品衣服、长筒涉水靴、帽子里放一片卷心菜叶以保持头脑凉爽，还有一粒蓟马铃薯可以结束他的生命。 “他不会去教堂，”玛丽安说。

‘No—I wish he was!’ murmured Tess.
“不——我希望他是！”苔丝低声说道。

Angel, in fact, rightly or wrongly (to adopt the safe phrase of evasive controversialists), preferred sermons in stones to sermons in churches and chapels on fine summer days. This morning, moreover, he had gone out to see if the damage to the hay by the flood was considerable or not. On his walk he observed the girls from a long distance, though they had been so occupied with their difficulties of passage as not to notice him. He knew that the water had risen at that spot, and that it would quite check their progress. So he had hastened on, with a dim idea of how he could help them—one of them in particular.
事实上，无论正确还是错误（采用回避争议者的安全用语），安吉尔更喜欢在石头上布道，而不是在晴朗的夏日在教堂和小教堂里布道。而且今天早上，他还出去看看洪水对干草的破坏是否严重。走路时，他从很远的地方观察女孩们，尽管她们正忙于行走的困难而没有注意到他。他知道那个地方的水位已经上涨，这会极大地阻碍他们的前进。于是他赶紧继续前行，心中隐隐约约不知道该如何帮助他们——尤其是他们中的一个人。

The rosy-cheeked, bright-eyed quartet looked so charming in their light summer attire, clinging to the roadside bank like pigeons on a roof-slope, that he stopped a moment to regard them before coming close. Their gauzy skirts had brushed up from the grass innumerable flies and butterflies which, unable to escape, remained caged in the transparent tissue as in an aviary. Angel’s eye at last fell upon Tess, the hindmost of the four; she, being full of suppressed laughter at their dilemma, could not help meeting his glance radiantly.
这四人脸颊红润，眼睛明亮，穿着轻便的夏装，像屋顶斜坡上的鸽子一样紧贴在路边，他停下来打量了他们一会儿，然后才走近。她们的纱裙，从草丛中拂起了无数苍蝇和蝴蝶，它们无法逃脱，仍被关在透明的纱布里，就像关在鸟舍里一样。安吉尔的目光最后落在了四个人中排在最后的苔丝身上。她正因为他们的困境而忍住笑意，忍不住以灿烂的目光迎上他的目光。

He came beneath them in the water, which did not rise over his long boots; and stood looking at the entrapped flies and butterflies.
他来到他们身下的水中，水没有淹没他的长靴。站着看着被困的苍蝇和蝴蝶。

‘Are you trying to get to church?’ he said to Marian, who was in front, including the next two in his remark, but avoiding Tess.
“你想去教堂吗？”他对前面的玛丽安说道，他的话也包括了接下来的两句话，但避开了苔丝。

‘Yes, sir; and ‘tis getting late; and my colour do come up so—‘
'是的先生;已经晚了；我的颜色确实如此——”

‘I’ll carry you through the pool—every Jill of you.’
“我会带你们穿过泳池——你们每个吉尔。”

The whole four flushed as if one heart beat through them.
四人的脸都红了，仿佛一颗​​心脏在跳动。

‘I think you can’t, sir,’ said Marian.
“我认为你不能，先生，”玛丽安说。

‘It is the only way for you to get past. Stand still. Nonsense—you are not too heavy! I’d carry you all four together. Now, Marian, attend,’ he continued, ‘and put your arms round my shoulders, so. Now! Hold on. That’s well done.’
‘这是你过去的唯一方法。站稳。废话——你并没有太重！我会把你们四个一起抱起来。现在，玛丽安，参加，”他继续说道，“用你的手臂搂住我的肩膀，所以。现在！坚持，稍等。做得很好。

Marian had lowered herself upon his arm and shoulder as directed, and Angel strode off with her, his slim figure, as viewed from behind, looking like the mere stem to the great nosegay suggested by hers. They disappeared round the curve of the road, and only his sousing footsteps and the top ribbon of Marian’s bonnet told where they were. In a few minutes he reappeared. Izz Huett was the next in order upon the bank.
玛丽安按照指示伏在他的手臂和肩膀上，安吉尔和她一起大步走开，从后面看，他苗条的身材就像她建议的大花束的茎一样。他们消失在道路的拐弯处，只有他令人作呕的脚步声和玛丽安帽子顶部的丝带告诉他们他们在哪里。几分钟后他又出现了。伊兹·休特（Izz Huett）是银行的下一个。

‘Here he comes,’ she murmured, and they could hear that her lips were dry with emotion. ‘And I have to put my arms round his neck and look into his face as Marian did.’
“他来了。”她低声说道，他们听得出她的嘴唇因激动而干燥。 “我必须像玛丽安一样，用双臂搂住他的脖子，看着他的脸。”

‘There’s nothing in that,’ said Tess quickly.
“那没什么，”苔丝赶紧说道。

‘There’s a time for everything,’ continued Izz, unheeding. ‘A time to embrace, and a time to refrain from embracing; the first is now going to be mine.’
“凡事都有定时，”伊兹继续说道，没有理睬。 ‘拥抱有时，不拥抱有时；第一个现在是我的了。

‘Fie—it is Scripture, Izz!’
“呸——这是圣经，伊兹！”

‘Yes,’ said Izz, ‘I’ve always a’ ear at church for pretty verses.’
“是的，”伊兹说，“我总是在教堂聆听优美的诗句。”

Angel Clare, to whom three-quarters of this performance was a commonplace act of kindness, now approached Izz. She quietly and dreamily lowered herself into his arms, and Angel methodically marched off with her. When he was heard returning for the third time Retty’s throbbing heart could be almost seen to shake her. He went up to the red-haired girl, and while he was seizing her he glanced at Tess. His lips could not have pronounced more plainly, ‘It will soon be you and I.’ Her comprehension appeared in her face; she could not help it. There was an understanding between them.
安吉尔·克莱尔（Angel Clare）对她来说，这次表演的四分之三都是一种平常的善意之举，现在她走近了伊兹（Izz）。她静静地、如梦似幻地投入他的怀里，安吉尔有条不紊地跟着她走了。当听到他第三次回来时，雷蒂的心跳几乎让她颤抖。他走到红发女孩面前，抓住她的同时，瞥了一眼苔丝。他的嘴唇说得再清楚不过了：“很快就会有你和我了。”她的理解表现在她的脸上。她情不自禁。他们之间达成了谅解。

Poor little Retty, though by far the lightest weight, was the most troublesome of Clare’s burdens. Marian had been like a sack of meal, a dead weight of plumpness under which he has literally staggered. Izz had ridden sensibly and calmly. Retty was a bunch of hysterics.
可怜的小雷蒂，虽然迄今为止体重最轻，却是克莱尔负担中最麻烦的一个。玛丽安就像一袋粮食，肥胖得让他摇摇欲坠。伊兹骑得明智而冷静。雷蒂是一群歇斯底里的人。

However, he got through with the disquieted creature, deposited her, and returned. Tess could see over the hedge the distant three in a group, standing as he had placed them on the next rising ground. It was now her turn. She was embarrassed to discover that excitement at the proximity of Mr Clare’s breath and eyes, which she had contemned in her companions, was intensified in herself; and as if fearful of betraying her secret, she paltered with him at the last moment.
然而，他还是和这个不安的生物打了交道，把她放下，然后回来了。苔丝可以透过树篱看到远处的三个人成群结队地站着，就像他把他们放在下一个高地上一样。现在轮到她了。她尴尬地发现，在克莱尔先生的呼吸和眼睛靠近时，她的同伴们对此感到不屑，但她自己却更加兴奋了。仿佛害怕泄露自己的秘密，她在最后一刻对他支吾其词。

‘I may be able to clim’ along the bank perhaps—I can clim’ better than they. You must be so tired, Mr Clare!’
“我也许可以沿着河岸攀爬”——我可以比他们更好地攀爬。你一定很累了，克莱尔先生！”

‘No, no, Tess,’ said he quickly. And almost before she was aware, she was seated in his arms and resting against his shoulder.
“不，不，苔丝，”他连忙说道。几乎在她意识到之前，她就坐在他的怀里，靠在他的肩膀上。

‘Three Leahs to get one Rachel,’ he whispered.
“三个莉亚才能得到一个瑞秋，”他低声说道。

‘They are better women than I,’ she replied, magnanimously sticking to her resolve.
“她们是比我更好的女人，”她回答道，并大度地坚持自己的决心。

‘Not to me,’ said Angel.
“对我来说不是，”安吉尔说。

He saw her grow warm at this; and they went some steps in silence.
他看到她对此变得热情起来。他们默默地走了几步。

‘I hope I am not too heavy?’ she said timidly.
“希望我不会太重吧？”她胆怯地说。

‘O no. You should lift Marian! Such a lump. You are like an undulating billow warmed by the sun. And all this fluff of muslin about you is the froth.’
‘噢，不。你应该举起玛丽安！这么一个肿块。你就像被阳光温暖的波浪起伏。而你身上的所有这些棉布绒毛都是泡沫。

‘It is very pretty—if I seem like that to you.’
“它非常漂亮——如果我对你来说也是这样的话。”

‘Do you know that I have undergone three-quarters of this labour entirely for the sake of the fourth quarter?’
“你知道我四分之三的辛苦都是为了第四节吗？”

‘No.’
'不。'

‘I did not expect such an event to-day.’
“我没想到今天会发生这样的事情。”

‘Nor I... The water came up so sudden.’
“我也没有……水来得太突然了。”

That the rise in the water was what she understood him to refer to, the state of breathing belied. Clare stood still and inclinced his face towards hers.
她理解他所说的水位上升就是呼吸的状态。克莱尔一动不动地站着，把脸转向她的脸。

‘O Tessy!’ he exclaimed.
“哦，泰西！”他喊道。

The girl’s cheeks burned to the breeze, and she could not look into his eyes for her emotion. It reminded Angel that he was somewhat unfairly taking advantage of an accidental position; and he went no further with it. No definite words of love had crossed their lips as yet, and suspension at this point was desirable now. However, he walked slowly, to make the remainder of the distance as long as possible; but at last they came to the bend, and the rest of their progress was in full view of the other three. The dry land was reached, and he set her down.
女孩的脸颊被微风灼伤，她无法直视他的眼睛，因为她的情绪。这提醒了安格尔，他利用了一个偶然的位置，这多少有些不公平；他没有再继续下去。他们嘴里还没有说出明确的爱的话语，现在最好暂停一下。不过，他走得很慢，让剩下的距离尽可能长；但最后他们还是来到了拐弯处，其余的进展都在另外三个人的视野中。到达了干燥的陆地，他把她放下来。

Her friends were looking with round thoughtful eyes at her and him, and she could see that they had been talking of her. He hastily bade them farewell, and splashed back along the stretch of submerged road.
她的朋友们用圆圆的眼睛若有所思地看着她和他，她看得出来他们一直在谈论她。他匆匆与他们告别，沿着那段被淹没的道路溅了回来。

The four moved on together as before, till Marian broke the silence by saying—
四个人像以前一样继续前行，直到玛丽安打破沉默，说道：

‘No—in all truth; we have no chance against her!’ She looked joylessly at Tess.
“不——说实话； “我们没有机会对付她！”她无忧无虑地看着苔丝。

‘What do you mean?’ asked the latter.
“你什么意思？”后者问道。

‘He likes ‘ee best—the very best! We could see it as he brought ‘ee. He would have kissed ‘ee, if you had encouraged him to do it, ever so little.’
“他最喜欢‘ee’——最好的！”当他带来“ee”时我们可以看到它。他会亲吻“呃，如果你鼓励他这么做的话，哪怕是那么一点点。”

‘No, no,’ said she.
“不，不，”她说。

The gaiety with which they had set out had somehow vanished; and yet there was no enmity or malice between them. They were generous young souls; they had been reared in the lonely country nooks where fatalism is a strong sentiment, and they did not blame her. Such supplanting was to be.
他们出发时的欢乐气氛不知何故消失了。但他们之间并没有敌意或恶意。他们都是慷慨的年轻人；他们是在偏僻的乡村长大的，那里的宿命论很强烈，他们并没有责怪她。这种取代是必然的。

Tess’s heart ached. There was no concealing from herself the fact that she loved Angel Clare, perhaps all the more passionately from knowing that the others had also lost their hearts to him. There is contagion in this sentiment, especially among women. And yet that same hungry nature had fought against this, but too feebly, and the natural result had followed.
苔丝的心很痛。她无法向自己隐瞒自己爱安吉尔·克莱尔的事实，或许因为知道其他人也都为他倾心，她的爱更加强烈。这种情绪具有传染性，尤其是在女性中。然而，同样饥饿的本性也曾与之抗争，但力量太弱，自然的结果就随之而来。

‘I will never stand in your way, nor in the way of either of you!’ she declared to Retty that night in the bedroom (her tears running down). ‘I can’t help this, my dear! I don’t think marrying is in his mind at all; but if he were ever to ask me I should refuse him, as I should refuse any man.’
“我永远不会妨碍你，也不会妨碍你们任何一个人！”那天晚上，她在卧室里向雷蒂宣布（她的眼泪流了下来）。 ‘亲爱的，我无能为力！我认为他根本就没有考虑结婚的事。但如果他向我求婚，我就会拒绝他，就像我拒绝任何人一样。”

‘Oh! would you? Why?’ said wondering Retty.
'哦！你会？为什么？”雷蒂疑惑地说。

‘It cannot be! But I will be plain. Putting myself quite on one side, I don’t think he will choose either of you.’
'它不可能是！但我会直言不讳。站在一边，我认为他不会选择你们中的任何一个。

‘I have never expected it—thought of it!’ moaned Retty. ‘But O! I wish I was dead!’
“我从来没有想到过——想到了！”雷蒂呻吟道。 ‘但是哦！我希望我已经死了！'

The poor child, torn by a feeling which she hardly understood, turned to the other two girls who came upstairs just then.
这个可怜的孩子被一种她几乎无法理解的感觉所折磨，她转向当时上楼的另外两个女孩。

‘We be friends with her again,’ she said to them. ‘She thinks no more of his choosing her than we do.’
“我们又和她成为朋友了，”她对他们说。 “她和我们一样，并不认为他选择了她。”

So the reserve went off, and they were confiding and warm.
于是，他们的保留就开始了，他们彼此信任、热情。

‘I don’t seem to care what I do now,’ said Marian, whose mood was turned to its lowest bass. ‘I was going to marry a dairyman at Stickleford, who’s asked me twice; but—my soul—I would put an end to myself rather’n be his wife now! Why don’t ye speak, Izz?’
“我似乎并不关心我现在做什么，”玛丽安说，她的情绪降至最低点。 “我本来打算嫁给斯蒂克福德的一位奶牛场老板，他向我求婚了两次；但是——我的灵魂——我宁愿结束自己，也不愿现在成为他的妻子！你为什么不说话，伊兹？

‘To confess, then,’ murmured Izz, ‘I made sure to-day that he was going to kiss me as he held me; and I lay still against his breast, hoping and hoping, and never moved at all. But he did not. I don’t like biding here at Talbothays any longer! I shall go hwome.’
“那么，坦白说，”伊兹低声说，“今天我确信他会在抱着我的时候亲吻我；我知道他会亲吻我。”我一动不动地靠在他的胸前，满怀希望，一动不动。但他没有。我不再喜欢在塔尔博塞斯这里投标了！我要回家了。

The air of the sleeping-chamber seemed to palpitate with the hopeless passion of the girls. They writhed feverishly under the oppressiveness of an emotion thrust on them by cruel Nature’s law—an emotion which they had neither expected nor desired. The incident of the day had fanned the flame that was burning the inside of their hearts out, and the torture was almost more than they could endure. The differences which distinguished them as individuals were abstracted by this passion, and each was but portion of one organism called sex. There was so much frankness and so little jealousy because there was no hope. Each one was a girl of fair common sense, and she did not delude herself with any vain conceits, or deny her love, or give herself airs, in the idea of outshining the others. The full recognition of the futility of their infatuation, from a social point of view; its purposeless beginning; its self-bounded outlook; its lack of everything to justify its existence in the eye of civilization (while lacking nothing in the eye of Nature); the one fact that it did exist, ecstasizing them to a killing joy—all this imparted to them a resignation, a dignity, which a practical and sordid expectation of winning him as a husband would have destroyed.
卧室里的空气似乎因女孩们绝望的激情而颤动。他们在残酷的自然法则强加给他们的一种情感的压迫下疯狂地翻滚——这种情感是他们既没有预料到也没有想要的。今日之事，已经将他们内心燃烧的火焰煽得七零八落，折磨得几乎超出了他们的承受能力。他们作为个体的区别被这种激情抽象化了，每个人都只是称为性的有机体的一部分。坦诚如此，嫉妒如此之少，因为没有希望。每个人都是一个有正常常识的女孩，她没有任何虚荣的自负，或否认自己的爱，或摆出一副架子，以超越其他人的想法。从社会的角度充分认识到他们的痴情是徒劳的；其无目的的开始；其自我限制的观点；在文明的眼中，它缺乏一切来证明其存在的合理性（而在自然的眼中，它又不缺乏任何东西）；唯一的事实是，它确实存在，让他们欣喜若狂——所有这一切都赋予了他们一种顺从和尊严，而如果想要赢得他成为丈夫，这种实际而肮脏的期望就会摧毁这种尊严。

They tossed and turned on their little beds, and the cheese-wring dripped monotonously downstairs.
他们在小床上翻来覆去，奶酪绞干单调地滴落在楼下。

‘B’ you awake, Tess?’ whispered one, half-an-hour later.
“苔丝，你醒了吗？”半小时后，有人低声问道。

It was Izz Huett’s voice.
这是伊兹·休特的声音。

Tess replied in the affirmative, whereupon also Retty and Marian suddenly flung the bedclothes off them, and sighed—
苔丝给出了肯定的回答，于是莱蒂和玛丽安也猛地甩掉床上的被子，叹了口气——

‘So be we!’
“我们也是！”

‘I wonder what she is like—the lady they say his family have looked out for him!’
“我想知道她是什么样的人——他们说他的家人一直在照顾他！”

‘I wonder,’ said Izz.
“我想知道，”伊兹说。

‘Some lady looked out for him?’ gasped Tess, starting. ‘I have never heard o’ that!’
“有位女士在照顾他吗？”苔丝吃惊地问道。 “我从来没有听说过！”

‘O yes—‘tis whispered; a young lady of his own rank, chosen by his family; a Doctor of Divinity’s daughter near his father’s parish of Emminster; he don’t much care for her, they say. But he is sure to marry her.’
“哦，是的——”有人低声说道；一位与他同等级的年轻女士，是由他的家人挑选的；一位神学博士的女儿，住在他父亲的埃明斯特教区附近；他们说，他不太关心她。但他肯定会娶她。”

They had heard so very little of this; yet it was enough to build up wretched dolorous dreams upon, there in the shade of the night. They pictured all the details of his being won round to consent, of the wedding preparations, of the bride’s happiness, of her dress and veil, of her blissful home with him, when oblivion would have fallen upon themselves as far as he and their love were concerned. Thus they talked, and ached, and wept till sleep charmed their sorrow away.
他们对此知之甚少。然而，在夜色的阴影下，这已经足够让人做起悲惨的、悲伤的梦了。他们描绘了他被说服同意的所有细节，婚礼的准备，新娘的幸福，她的礼服和面纱，她和他一起幸福的家庭，而他们自己却忘记了他和他们的爱。很担心。他们就这样说话、痛苦、哭泣，直到睡眠驱散了他们的悲伤。

After this disclosure Tess nourished no further foolish thought that there lurked any grave and deliberate import in Clare’s attentions to her. It was a passing summer love of her face, for love’s own temporary sake—nothing more. And the thorny crown of this sad conception was that she whom he really did prefer in a cursory way to the rest, she who knew herself to be more impassioned in nature, cleverer, more beautiful than they, was in the eyes of propriety far less worthy of him than the homelier ones whom he ignored.
得知此事后，苔丝不再再产生愚蠢的想法，认为克莱尔对她的关注中潜藏着任何严肃而刻意的意义。那是夏日对她脸庞的爱恋，只是为了暂时的爱而已——仅此而已。这个悲伤的想法的棘手之处在于，他确实粗略地比其他人更喜欢她，她知道自己比他们更热情，更聪明，更美丽，但在礼节的眼中却远不及他们。比那些被他忽视的普通人更值得他。

XXIV
第二十四章

Amid the oozing fatness and warm ferments of the Froom Vale, at a season when the rush of juices could almost be heard below the hiss of fertilization, it was impossible that the most fanciful love should not grow passionate. The ready bosoms existing there were impregnated by their surroundings.
在弗鲁姆谷渗出的油脂和温暖的发酵中，在施肥的嘶嘶声下几乎可以听到果汁的奔腾的季节，最幻想的爱情不可能不变得充满激情。那里已经准备好的胸怀被周围的环境所浸透。

July passed over their heads, and the Thermidorean weather which came in its wake seemed an effort on the part of Nature to match the state of hearts at Talbothays Dairy. The air of the place, so fresh in the spring and early summer, was stagnant and enervating now. Its heavy scents weighed upon them, and at mid-day the landscape seemed lying in a swoon. Ethiopic scorchings browned the upper slopes of the pastures, but there was still bright green herbage here where the watercourses purled. And as Clare was oppressed by the outward heats, so was he burdened inwardly by waxing fervour of passion for the soft and silent Tess.
七月从他们头顶过去，随之而来的热月天气似乎是大自然的努力，以匹配塔尔博塞斯乳品厂的心情。这个地方的空气在春天和初夏时是那么清新，现在却变得停滞而令人衰弱。浓重的气味压在他们身上，中午时分，大地似乎陷入了昏迷状态。埃塞俄比亚的灼热使牧场的上坡变成了褐色，但河水潺潺的地方仍然有鲜绿色的牧草。正如克莱尔被外在的热情所压抑一样，他内心也因对温柔而沉默的苔丝的热情而感到沉重。

The rains having passed, the uplands were dry. The wheels of the dairyman’s spring-cart, as he sped home from market, licked up the pulverized surface of the highway, and were followed by white ribands of dust, as if they had set a thin powder-train on fire. The cows jumped wildly over the five-barred barton-gate, maddened by the gad-fly; Dairyman Crick kept his shirt-sleeves permanently rolled up from Monday to Saturday; open windows had no effect in ventilation without open doors, and in the dairy-garden the blackbirds and thrushes crept about under the currant-bushes, rather in the manner of quadrupeds than of winged creatures. The flies in the kitchen were lazy, teasing, and familiar, crawling about in the unwonted places, on the floors, into drawers, and over the backs of the milkmaids’ hands. Conversations were concerning sunstroke; while butter-making, and still more butter-keeping, was a despair.
雨过天晴，高地干燥。当奶牛场老板从市场飞驰回家时，他的弹簧车的轮子舔舐着高速公路的粉状表面，后面跟着白色的灰尘带，仿佛它们点燃了一列薄薄的火药。牛群被牛虻抓狂，疯狂地跳过五道栅栏的巴顿门。奶牛场老板克里克从周一到周六总是卷起衬衫袖子。没有开着的门，开着的窗户就没有通风效果，在奶牛场里，乌鸫和画眉在醋栗灌木丛下爬行，更像是四足动物，而不是有翅膀的动物。厨房里的苍蝇懒洋洋、挑逗人，而且很熟悉，在不寻常的地方爬来爬去，在地板上，在抽屉里，在挤奶女工的手背上。谈话内容是关于中暑的。而黄油的制作和黄油的保存更是让人绝望。

They milked entirely in the meads for coolness and convenience, without driving in the cows. During the day the animals obsequiously followed the shadow of the smallest tree as it moved round the stem with the diurnal roll; and when the milkers came they could hardly stand still for the flies.
为了凉爽和方便，他们完全在草地上挤奶，而不用驾驶奶牛。白天，动物们谄媚地追随最小的树的影子，因为它绕着树干转动，每天都会滚动。当挤奶工来的时候，他们几乎无法为苍蝇站立。

On one of these afternoons four or five unmilked cows chanced to stand apart from the general herd, behind the corner of a hedge, among them being Dumpling and Old Pretty, who loved Tess’s hands above those of any other maid. When she rose from her stool under a finished cow, Angel Clare, who had been observing her for some time, asked her if she would take the aforesaid creatures next. She silently assented, and with her stool at arm’s length, and the pail against her knee, went round to where they stood. Soon the sound of Old Pretty’s milk fizzing into the pail came through the hedge, and then Angel felt inclined to go round the corner also, to finish off a hard-yielding milcher who had strayed there, he being now as capable of this as the dairyman himself.
在这些下午的某个下午，四五头未挤奶的奶牛碰巧站在树篱后面的牛群中，其中就有饺子和老美人，他们比任何其他女仆都更喜欢苔丝的手。当她从一头成品牛下面的凳子上站起来时，已经观察她一段时间的安吉尔·克莱尔问她下一步是否要带走上述生物。她默默地同意了，然后把凳子放在一臂远的地方，把水桶放在膝盖上，走到他们站的地方。很快，老美人的牛奶倒入桶中的嘶嘶声从树篱中传来，然后安吉尔也想绕过拐角，去干掉一个误入那里的辛苦产奶工，他现在和老美人一样有能力做到这一点。挤奶工本人。

All the men, and some of the women, when milking, dug their foreheads into the cows and gazed into the pail. But a few—mainly the younger ones—rested their heads sideways. This was Tess Durbeyfield’s habit, her temple pressing the milcher’s flank, her eyes fixed on the far end of the meadow with the quiet of one lost in meditation. She was milking Old Pretty thus, and the sun chancing to be on the milking-side, it shone flat upon her pink-gowned form and her white curtain-bonnet, and upon her profile, rendering it keen as a cameo cut from the dun background of the cow.
所有的男人，还有一些女人，在挤奶时，都把额头埋进奶牛里，凝视着桶。但有一些人——主要是年轻人——把头侧向一边。这是苔丝·德北菲尔德的习惯，她的太阳穴压着奶工的侧腹，她的眼睛盯着草地的尽头，带着沉思般的安静。她就这样给老美人挤奶，太阳正好在挤奶的一边，阳光平平地照在她粉红色长袍的身躯和白色的窗帘帽上，照在她的侧面上，把它照得像从暗褐色上剪下的浮雕一样锐利。牛的背景。

She did not know that Clare had followed her round, and that he sat under his cow watching her. The stillness of her head and features was remarkable: she might have been in a trance, her eyes open, yet unseeing. Nothing in the picture moved but Old Pretty’s tail and Tess’s pink hands, the latter so gently as to be a rhythmic pulsation only, as if they were obeying a reflex stimulus, like a beating heart.
她不知道克莱尔一直跟着她，而且他坐在牛下面看着她。她的头部和五官异常平静：她可能处于恍惚状态，眼睛睁着，但什么也看不见。画面中除了老美人的尾巴和苔丝粉红色的手之外，什么都没有动，后者的动作轻柔得只有一种有节奏的脉动，仿佛它们在服从反射刺激，就像一颗跳动的心脏。

How very lovable her face was to him. Yet there was nothing ethereal about it; all was real vitality, real warmth, real incarnation. And it was in her mouth that this culminated. Eyes almost as deep and speaking he had seen before, and cheeks perhaps as fair; brows as arched, a chin and throat almost as shapely; her mouth he had seen nothing to equal on the face of the earth. To a young man with the least fire in him that little upward lift in the middle of her red top lip was distracting, infatuating, maddening. He had never before seen a woman’s lips and teeth which forced upon his mind with such persistent iteration the old Elizabethan simile of roses filled with snow. Perfect, he, as a lover, might have called them off-hand. But no—they were not perfect. And it was the touch of the imperfect upon the would-be perfect that gave the sweetness, because it was that which gave the humanity.
她的脸对他来说是多么可爱啊。但它却毫无飘逸之感。一切都是真实的活力、真实的温暖、真实的化身。正是在她的嘴里，这一切达到了顶峰。眼睛几乎和他以前见过的一样深邃、会说话，脸颊也许和他以前见过的一样白皙。眉毛同样拱起，下巴和喉咙几乎同样匀称；她的嘴在地球上是独一无二的。对于一个内心最没有热情的年轻人来说，她红色的上唇中间那一点点向上的抬起是令人分心的、令人着迷的、令人发狂的。他以前从未见过一个女人的嘴唇和牙齿，如此反复地让他想起伊丽莎白时代古老的玫瑰充满雪的比喻。完美，作为一个情人，他可能会立即称它们为完美。但不，它们并不完美。正是不完美与未来完美的接触才带来了甜蜜，因为正是它赋予了人性。

Clare had studied the curves of those lips so many times that he could reproduce them mentally with ease: and now, as they again confronted him, clothed with colour and life, they sent an aura over his flesh, a breeze through his nerves, which well nigh produced a qualm; and actually produced, by some mysterious physiological process, a prosaic sneeze.
克莱尔已经多次研究过那些嘴唇的曲线，以至于他可以轻松地在脑海中重现它们：现在，当它们再次面对他时，它​​们披上了色彩和生命，它们给他的肉体带来了一种光环，一阵微风吹过他的神经，几乎产生了疑虑；实际上，通过某种神秘的生理过程，产生了一个平淡无奇的喷嚏。

She then became conscious that he was observing her; but she would not show it by any change of position, though the curious dream-like fixity disappeared, and a close eye might easily have discerned that the rosiness of her face deepened, and then faded till only a tinge of it was left.
然后她意识到他正在观察她；但她不会通过任何姿势的改变来表现出来，尽管奇怪的梦幻般的固定消失了，闭上眼睛很容易看出她脸上的玫瑰色加深，然后消失，直到只剩下一点色调。

The influence that had passed into Clare like an excitation from the sky did not die down. Resolutions, reticences, prudences, fears, fell back like a defeated battalion. He jumped up from his seat, and, leaving his pail to be kicked over if the milcher had such a mind, went quickly towards the desire of his eyes, and, kneeling down beside her, clasped her in his arms.
像来自天空的刺激一样传递到克莱尔身上的影响并没有消失。决心、沉默、谨慎、恐惧，就像一个溃败的营一样撤退。他从座位上跳起来，如果牛奶商有这样的想法，他的桶就被踢翻了，他迅速走向他眼中的欲望，在她身边跪下，将她抱在怀里。

Tess was taken completely by surprise, and she yielded to his embrace with unreflecting inevitableness. Having seen that it was really her lover who had advanced, and no one else, her lips parted, and she sank upon him in her momentary joy, with something very like an ecstatic cry.
苔丝完全吃了一惊，她不假思索地屈服于他的拥抱。看到真的是她的爱人走了过来，而不是其他人，她张开双唇，在短暂的喜悦中倒在他身上，带着一种非常像狂喜的叫声。

He had been on the point of kissing that too tempting mouth, but he checked himself, for tender conscience’ sake.
他本来就想亲吻那张过于诱人的嘴唇，但出于良心的缘故，他克制住了自己。

‘Forgive me, Tess dear!’ he whispered. ‘I ought to have asked. I—did not know what I was doing. I do not mean it as a liberty. I am devoted to you, Tessy, dearest, in all sincerity!’
“原谅我，亲爱的苔丝！”他低声说道。 ‘我应该问一下。我——不知道自己在做什么。我并不是说这是一种自由。我对你忠诚，泰西，最亲爱的，真诚的！

Old Pretty by this time had looked round, puzzled; and seeing two people crouching under her where, by immemorial custom, there should have been only one, lifted her hind leg crossly.
这时，老美人疑惑地环顾四周。看到两个人蹲在她身下，而按照自古以来的习俗，应该只有一个人，她愤怒地抬起后腿。

‘She is angry—she doesn’t know what we mean—she’ll kick over the milk!’ exclaimed Tess, gently striving to free herself, her eyes concerned with the quadruped’s actions, her heart more deeply concerned with herself and Clare.
“她很生气——她不明白我们的意思——她会把牛奶踢翻的！”苔丝大声说道，轻轻地努力挣脱，她的眼睛关心着四足动物的动作，她的心更关心她自己和克莱尔。

She slipped up from her seat, and they stood together, his arm still encircling her. Tess’s eyes, fixed on distance, began to fill.
她从座位上站起来，他们站在一起，他的手臂仍然搂着她。苔丝的眼睛注视着远方，眼睛开始变得湿润。

‘Why do you cry, my darling?’ he said.
“你为什么哭，亲爱的？”他说。

‘O—I don’t know!’ she murmured.
“哦——我不知道！”她低声说道。

As she saw and felt more clearly the position she was in she became agitated and tried to withdraw.
当她更清楚地看到并感觉到自己所处的位置时，她变得焦躁并试图退出。

‘Well, I have betrayed my feeling, Tess, at last,’ said he, with a curious sigh of desperation, signifying unconsciously that his heart had outrun his judgement. ‘That I—love you dearly and truly I need not say. But I—it shall go no further now—it distresses you—I am as surprised as you are. You will not think I have presumed upon your defencelessness—been too quick and unreflecting, will you?’
“好吧，苔丝，我终于背叛了我的感情。”他说，带着一种奇怪的绝望的叹息，无意识地表明他的心已经超出了他的判断力。 ‘我——不用说，我深深地、真诚地爱着你。但我——现在不会再进一步​​了——这让你很痛苦——我和你一样感到惊讶。你不会认为我是在假设你毫无防备——太仓促、太不加思考吧？

‘N’—I can’t tell.’
“N”——我不知道。

He had allowed her to free herself; and in a minute or two the milking of each was resumed. Nobody had beheld the gravitation of the two into one; and when the dairyman came round by that screened nook a few minutes later, there was not a sign to reveal that the markedly sundered pair were more to each other than mere acquaintance. Yet in the interval since Crick’s last view of them something had occurred which changed the pivot of the universe for their two natures; something which, had he known its quality, the dairyman would have despised, as a practical man; yet which was based upon a more stubborn and resistless tendency than a whole heap of so-called practicalities. A veil had been whisked aside; the tract of each one’s outlook was to have a new horizon thenceforward—for a short time or for a long.
他让她自由了；他让她自由了。一两分钟后，每个人都开始挤奶。没有人看到两者的引力合二为一。几分钟后，当奶牛场老板经过那个被屏蔽的角落时，没有任何迹象表明这对明显分裂的情侣彼此之间的关系不仅仅是熟人。然而，在克里克最后一次看到他们之后的这段时间里，发生了一些事情，改变了他们两种本性的宇宙轴心；如果奶牛场老板知道它的品质，作为一个务实的人，他一定会鄙视这种东西。然而，这种倾向是基于一种比一大堆所谓的实用性更顽固、更无法抗拒的倾向。面纱被掀到一边；每个人的前景都是从此以后拥有一个新的视野——无论是短期的还是长期的。

END OF PHASE THE THIRD
第三阶段结束

Phase the Fourth: The Consequence
第四阶段：后果

XXV
二十五

Clare, restless, went out into the dusk when evening drew on, she who had won him having retired to her chamber.
夜幕降临时，克莱尔焦躁不安地走出去，走进黄昏，赢得了他的她已经回到了自己的房间。

The night was as sultry as the day. There was no coolness after dark unless on the grass. Roads, garden-paths, the house-fronts, the barton-walls were warm as hearths, and reflected the noontime temperature into the noctambulist’s face.
夜晚和白天一样闷热。天黑后，除非在草地上，否则没有任何凉爽。道路、花园小径、房屋正面、巴顿墙都像壁炉一样温暖，将正午的温度反射到夜游者的脸上。

He sat on the east gate of the dairy-yard, and knew not what to think of himself. Feeling had indeed smothered judgement that day.
他坐在奶牛场的东门上，心里不知道自己在想什么。那天，感情确实压制了判断力。

Since the sudden embrace, three hours before, the twain had kept apart. She seemed stilled, almost alarmed, at what had occurred, while the novelty, unpremeditation, mastery of circumstance disquieted him—palpitating, contemplative being that he was. He could hardly realize their true relations to each other as yet, and what their mutual bearing should be before third parties thenceforward.
自从三个小时前突然拥抱之后，两人就一直保持着距离。对于所发生的事情，她似乎很平静，几乎感到震惊，而新奇的、毫无预谋的、对环境的掌控却让他感到不安——他就是一个心悸、沉思的人。他还很难理解他们之间的真正关系，以及今后在第三方面前他们的相互关系应该是什么样子。

Angel had come as pupil to this dairy in the idea that his temporary existence here was to be the merest episode in his life, soon passed through and early forgotten; he had come as to a place from which as from a screened alcove he could calmly view the absorbing world without, and, apostrophizing it with Walt Whitman—
安吉尔来到这家日记店当学生，他的想法是，他在这里的短暂存在只是他生命中最短暂的一段插曲，很快就过去了，很快就被遗忘了；他来到了一个地方，从那里他可以平静地观看外面引人入胜的世界，就像从一个有屏风的凹室一样，并且用沃尔特·惠特曼的方式撇开它——

Crowds of men and women attired in the usual costumes, How curious you are to me!—
一群群穿着平常服装的男女，你们对我来说是多么好奇啊！——

resolve upon a plan for plunging into that world anew. But behold, the absorbing scene had been imported hither. What had been the engrossing world had dissolved into an uninteresting outer dumb-show; while here, in this apparently dim and unimpassioned place, novelty had volcanically started up, as it had never, for him, started up elsewhere.
决心重新投入那个世界的计划。但看哪，引人入胜的场景已经被引入这里了。原本引人入胜的世界已经变成了无趣的哑剧。在这里，在这个看似昏暗、冷漠的地方，新奇感如火山般涌现，对他来说，在其他地方从来没有出现过。

Every window of the house being open, Clare could hear across the yard each trivial sound of the retiring household. The dairy-house, so humble, so insignificant, so purely to him a place of constrained sojourn that he had never hitherto deemed it of sufficient importance to be reconnoitred as an object of any quality whatever in the landscape; what was it now? The aged and lichened brick gables breathed forth ‘Stay!’ The windows smiled, the door coaxed and beckoned, the creeper blushed confederacy. A personality within it was so far-reaching in her influence as to spread into and make the bricks, mortar, and whole overhanging sky throb with a burning sensibility. Whose was this mighty personality? A milkmaid’s.
房子的每一扇窗户都开着，克莱尔可以听到院子对面退休家庭的每一个细微的声音。奶牛场对他来说是那么简陋，那么微不足道，那么纯粹是一个受限的逗留场所，以至于他迄今为止从未认为它具有足够的重要性，值得被视为景观中任何质量的物体；现在是什么情况？古老而长满青苔的砖砌山墙发出“留下来！”窗户微笑着，门在哄骗着、在招手，爬山虎脸红了的联盟。其中的一种个性对她的影响如此深远，以至于蔓延到砖块、砂浆和整个悬垂的天空中，并让它们以一种灼热的感觉而颤动。如此强大的人格是谁的？挤奶女工的。

It was amazing, indeed, to find how great a matter the life of the obscure dairy had become to him. And though new love was to be held partly responsible for this, it was not solely so. Many besides Angel have learnt that the magnitude of lives is not as to their external displacements, but as to their subjective experiences. The impressionable peasant leads a larger, fuller, more dramatic life than the pachydermatous king. Looking at it thus, he found that life was to be seen of the same magnitude here as elsewhere.
确实，令人惊讶的是，他发现默默无闻的奶牛场的生活对他来说是如此重要。尽管新欢对此负有部分责任，但事实并非如此。除了安吉尔之外，许多人都知道生命的重要性不在于他们的外在位移，而在于他们的主观体验。易受影响的农民比皮肤厚重的国王过着更丰富、更充实、更戏剧化的生活。这样看来，他发现这里的生命与其他地方的生命是同等重要的。

Despite his heterodoxy, faults, and weaknesses, Clare was a man with a conscience. Tess was no insignificant creature to toy with and dismiss; but a woman living her precious life—a life which, to herself who endured or enjoyed it, possessed as great a dimension as the life of the mightiest to himself. Upon her sensations the whole world depended to Tess; through her existence all her fellow-creatures existed, to her. The universe itself only came into being for Tess on the particular day in the particular year in which she was born.
尽管克莱尔异端、有缺点和弱点，但他是一个有良心的人。苔丝可不是一个可以玩弄和忽视的无足轻重的生物。但是，一个女人过着她宝贵的生活——对于她自己来说，这种生活对于她自己来说，是一种忍受或享受它的生活，其意义就像最强大的人的生活一样伟大。整个世界都依赖于苔丝的感觉。通过她的存在，她的所有同胞都对她而言存在。对于苔丝来说，宇宙本身只是在她出生的那一年的那一天才形成的。

This consciousness upon which he had intruded was the single opportunity of existence ever vouchsafed to Tess by an unsympathetic First Cause—her all; her every and only chance. How then should he look upon her as of less consequence than himself; as a pretty trifle to caress and grow weary of; and not deal in the greatest seriousness with the affection which he knew that he had awakened in her—so fervid and so impressionable as she was under her reserve—in order that it might not agonize and wreck her?
他侵入的意识是无情的第一原因（她的全部）给予苔丝的唯一生存机会；她每一个也是唯一的机会。那么，他怎能把她视为比自己更重要的人呢？当作一件可爱的小事，爱抚却会感到厌倦；而不是以最严肃的态度对待他知道自己在她心中唤起的感情——她是如此的热情和易受影响，而她却在她的保守之下——以免它让她痛苦和崩溃？

To encounter her daily in the accustomed manner would be to develop what had begun. Living in such close relations, to meet meant to fall into endearment; flesh and blood could not resist it; and, having arrived at no conclusion as to the issue of such a tendency, he decided to hold aloof for the present from occupations in which they would be mutually engaged. As yet the harm done was small.
每天以惯常的方式与她见面，就是将已经开始的事情发展下去。生活如此亲密，相见即情深；血肉之躯无法抗拒；由于对这种倾向的问题还没有得出结论，他决定暂时远离他们将共同从事的职业。到目前为止，造成的伤害还很小。

But it was not easy to carry out the resolution never to approach her. He was driven towards her by every heave of his pulse.
但要执行不再接近她的决心并不容易。他的每一次脉搏都将他推向她。

He thought he would go and see his friends. It might be possible to sound them upon this. In less than five months his term here would have ended, and after a few additional months spent upon other farms he would be fully equipped in agricultural knowledge and in a position to start on his own account. Would not a farmer want a wife, and should a farmer’s wife be a drawing-room wax-figure, or a woman who understood farming? Notwithstanding the pleasing answer returned to him by the silence, he resolved to go his journey.
他想他要去看看他的朋友们。或许可以就此向他们发出声音。不到五个月，他在这里的任期就结束了，在其他农场又呆了几个月后，他将完全掌握农业知识，并能够开始自己的事业。农民难道不想娶个妻子吗？农民的妻子应该是客厅里的蜡像，还是懂农事的女人？尽管沉默给了他一个令人愉快的答复，他还是决定继续他的旅程。

One morning when they sat down to breakfast at Talbothays Dairy some maid observed that she had not seen anything of Mr Clare that day.
一天早上，当他们在塔尔博塞斯乳品厂坐下来吃早餐时，一位女仆发现那天她没有看到克莱尔先生。

‘O no,’ said Dairyman Crick. ‘Mr Clare has gone hwome to Emminster to spend a few days wi’ his kinsfolk.’
“哦，不，”奶牛场老板克里克说。 “克莱尔先生已经回到埃明斯特，与他的亲戚一起度过了几天。”

For four impassioned ones around that table the sunshine of the morning went out at a stroke, and the birds muffled their song. But neither girl by word or gesture revealed her blankness. ‘He’s getting on towards the end of his time wi’ me,’ added the dairyman, with a phlegm which unconsciously was brutal; ‘and so I suppose he is beginning to see about his plans elsewhere.’
对于那张桌子周围四个热情的人来说，早晨的阳光一下子就消失了，鸟儿的歌声也变得低沉起来。但女孩的言语和动作都没有透露出她的茫然。 “他和我在一起的日子已经快结束了，”奶牛场老板补充道，他的痰不自觉地变得残酷起来。 “所以我想他开始在其他地方考虑他的计划。”

‘How much longer is he to bide here?’ asked Izz Huett, the only one of the gloom-stricken bevy who could trust her voice with the question.
“他还要在这里等多久？”伊兹·休特问道，她是这群忧郁的人群中唯一一个可以相信自己的声音能提出这个问题的人。

The others waited for the dairyman’s answer as if their lives hung upon it; Retty, with parted lips, gazing on the tablecloth, Marian with heat added to her redness, Tess throbbing and looking out at the meads.
其他人等待着奶牛场老板的回答，仿佛他们的生命就在等待着。莱蒂张开双唇，凝视着桌布，玛丽安的脸色变得通红，浑身发热，苔丝颤抖着，望着窗外的草地。

‘Well, I can’t mind the exact day without looking at my memorandum-book,’ replied Crick, with the same intolerable unconcern. ‘And even that may be altered a bit. He’ll bide to get a little practice in the calving out at the straw-yard, for certain. He’ll hang on till the end of the year I should say.’
“好吧，如果不看我的备忘录，我就无法介意具体的日子，”克里克回答道，语气同样令人难以忍受。 “甚至这一点也可能会发生一些改变。当然，他会等待在稻草场进行一些产犊练习。我应该说他会坚持到今年年底。

Four months or so of torturing ecstasy in his society—of ‘pleasure girdled about with pain”. After that the blackness of unutterable night.
在他的社会中度过了大约四个月的折磨狂喜——“快乐环绕着痛苦”。之后就是难以形容的黑夜。

At this moment of the morning Angel Clare was riding along a narrow lane ten miles distant from the breakfasters, in the direction of his father’s Vicarage at Emminster, carrying, as well as he could, a little basket which contained some black-puddings and a bottle of mead, sent by Mrs Crick, with her kind respects, to his parents. The white lane stretched before him, and his eyes were upon it; but they were staring into next year, and not at the lane. He loved her; ought he to marry her? Dared he to marry her? What would his mother and his brothers say? What would he himself say a couple of years after the event? That would depend upon whether the germs of staunch comradeship underlay the temporary emotion, or whether it were a sensuous joy in her form only, with no substratum of everlastingness.
清晨的这个时刻，安吉尔·克莱尔正沿着一条狭窄的小巷骑行，距离吃早饭的人有十英里，朝他父亲在埃明斯特的牧师住宅的方向驶去，他尽可能地提着一个小篮子，里面装着一些黑布丁和一块面包。克里克夫人怀着亲切的敬意送给他的父母一瓶蜂蜜酒。白色的小巷在他面前延伸，他的目光注视着它。但他们着眼于明年，而不是球场。他爱她；他应该娶她吗？他敢娶她吗？他的母亲和他的兄弟会怎么说？事件发生几年后，他本人会说什么？这取决于暂时的情感是否蕴藏着坚定的同志情谊的萌芽，或者它是否只是一种感官上的快乐，没有永恒的基础。

His father’s hill-surrounded little town, the Tudor church-tower of red stone, the clump of trees near the Vicarage, came at last into view beneath him, and he rode down towards the well-known gate. Casting a glance in the direction of the church before entering his home, he beheld standing by the vestry-door a group of girls, of ages between twelve and sixteen, apparently awaiting the arrival of some other one, who in a moment became visible; a figure somewhat older than the school-girls, wearing a broad-brimmed hat and highly-starched cambric morning-gown, with a couple of books in her hand.
他父亲的四面环山的小镇、都铎式的红石教堂塔楼、牧师住宅附近的树林，终于在他的脚下映入眼帘，他骑马朝那座著名的大门走去。进家门之前，他朝教堂的方向看了一眼，看到教堂门口站着一群十二岁到十六岁之间的女孩，显然是在等待另一个人的到来，不一会儿，她就出现了。这是一个比女学生年龄稍大的人，戴着宽边帽，穿着浆洗过的麻布晨衣，手里拿着几本书。

Clare knew her well. He could not be sure that she observed him; he hoped she did not, so as to render it unnecessary that he should go and speak to her, blameless creature that she was. An overpowering reluctance to greet her made him decide that she had not seen him. The young lady was Miss Mercy Chant, the only daughter of his father’s neighbour and friend, whom it was his parents’ quiet hope that he might wed some day. She was great at Antinomianism and Bible-classes, and was plainly going to hold a class now. Clare’s mind flew to the impassioned, summer-steeped heathens in the Var Vale, their rosy faces court-patched with cow-droppings; and to one the most impassioned of them all.
克莱尔很了解她。他不能确定她是否在观察他；他希望她没有这样做，这样他就没有必要去跟她说话了，她是个无可指责的人。他极其不愿意与她打招呼，这让他认定她没有看见他。这位年轻的女士是梅西·钱特小姐，她是他父亲的邻居和朋友的独生女，他的父母默默地希望他有一天能嫁给她。她很擅长反律法主义和圣经课程，现在显然要去上课。克莱尔的思绪飞向瓦尔谷那些热情洋溢、沉浸在夏日气息中的异教徒，他们红润的脸上沾满了牛粪。以及其中最热情的一位。

It was on the impulse of the moment that he had resolved to trot over to Emminster, and hence had not written to apprise his mother and father, aiming, however, to arrive about the breakfast hour, before they should have gone out to their parish duties. He was a little late, and they had already sat down to the morning meal. The group at the table jumped up to welcome him as soon as he entered. They were his father and mother, his brother the Reverend Felix—curate at a town in the adjoining county, home for the inside of a fortnight—and his other brother, the Reverend Cuthbert, the classical scholar, and Fellow and Dean of his College, down from Cambridge for the long vacation. His mother appeared in a cap and silver spectacles, and his father looked what in fact he was—an earnest, God-fearing man, somewhat gaunt, in years about sixty-five, his pale face lined with thought and purpose. Over their heads hung the picture of Angel’s sister, the eldest of the family, sixteen years his senior, who had married a missionary and gone out to Africa.
他一时冲动，决定小跑去埃明斯特，因此没有写信通知他的父母，而是打算在早餐时间左右到达，赶在他们应该出去教区之前职责。他来得有点晚，他们已经坐下来吃早饭了。他一进来，餐桌上的人就跳起来欢迎他。他们是他的父母，他的兄弟菲利克斯牧师（在邻近县的一个小镇担任牧师，在两周内回家）和他的另一个兄弟，卡斯伯特牧师，古典学者，他的学院的院士兼院长，从剑桥过来度长假。他的母亲戴着帽子，戴着银色眼镜，而他的父亲看起来就是他的真实面目——一个真诚、敬畏上帝的人，有点憔悴，大约六十五岁，苍白的脸上写满了思考和目标。他们头顶上挂着安吉尔妹妹的照片，她是家里的长女，比他大十六岁，嫁给了一位传教士，去了非洲。

Old Mr Clare was a clergyman of a type which, within the last twenty years, has well nigh dropped out of contemporary life. A spiritual descendant in the direct line from Wycliff, Huss, Luther, Calvin; an Evangelical of the Evangelicals, a Conversionist, a man of Apostolic simplicity in life and thought, he had in his raw youth made up his mind once for all in the deeper questions of existence, and admitted no further reasoning on them thenceforward. He was regarded even by those of his own date and school of thinking as extreme; while, on the other hand, those totally opposed to him were unwillingly won to admiration for his thoroughness, and for the remarkable power he showed in dismissing all question as to principles in his energy for applying them. He loved Paul of Tarsus, liked St John, hated St James as much as he dared, and regarded with mixed feelings Timothy, Titus, and Philemon. The New Testament was less a Christiad then a Pauliad to his intelligence—less an argument than an intoxication. His creed of determinism was such that it almost amounted to a vice, and quite amounted, on its negative side, to a renunciative philosophy which had cousinship with that of Schopenhauer and Leopardi. He despised the Canons and Rubric, swore by the Articles, and deemed himself consistent through the whole category—which in a way he might have been. One thing he certainly was—sincere.
老克莱尔先生是一位在过去二十年里几乎已经从当代生活中消失的牧师。威克利夫、胡斯、路德、加尔文的精神后裔；他是福音派中的福音派信徒，皈依者，在生活和思想上都具有使徒式的单纯性，他在年轻时就对存在的更深层次的问题一劳永逸地下定了决心，从此以后不再对这些问题进行进一步的推理。甚至他的同代人和他的思想流派也认为他是极端的。另一方面，那些完全反对他的人却不情愿地对他的彻底性以及他在消除所有关于他的精力应用原则的问题方面所表现出的非凡力量表示钦佩。他爱塔尔苏斯的保罗，喜欢圣约翰，尽可能地恨圣雅各，并且对提摩太、提多和腓利门怀着复杂的感情。对他的智慧来说，《新约》与其说是一部《基督教》，不如说是一部《保利亚德》——与其说是一部论证，不如说是一部陶醉。他的决定论信条几乎等于一种恶习，而且从消极的一面来说，相当于一种与叔本华和莱奥帕尔迪的哲学有相似之处的放弃哲学。他鄙视规范和红字，对条款发誓，并认为自己在整个类别中保持一致——在某种程度上他可能是这样。他确实有一件事——真诚。

To the aesthetic, sensuous, pagan pleasure in natural life and lush womanhood which his son Angel had lately been experiencing in Var Vale, his temper would have been antipathetic in a high degree, had he either by inquiry or imagination been able to apprehend it. Once upon a time Angel had been so unlucky as to say to his father, in a moment of irritation, that it might have resulted far better for mankind if Greece had been the source of the religion of modern civilization, and not Palestine; and his father’s grief was of that blank description which could not realize that there might lurk a thousandth part of a truth, much less a half truth or a whole truth, in such a proposition. He had simply preached austerely at Angel for some time after. But the kindness of his heart was such that he never resented anything for long, and welcomed his son to-day with a smile which was as candidly sweet as a child’s.
对于他的儿子安吉尔最近在瓦尔谷经历的自然生活中审美的、感性的、异教的快乐和丰富的女性气质，如果他通过询问或想象能够理解的话，他的脾气会非常反感。从前，安吉尔非常不幸，一时恼怒地对他的父亲说，如果现代文明的宗教起源是希腊，而不是巴勒斯坦，对人类来说可能会好得多。他父亲的悲伤是一种空洞的描述，他无法意识到在这样的命题中可能潜藏着千分之一的真理，更不用说一半的真理或全部的真理了。此后他只是在安吉尔那里严肃地讲道了一段时间。但他心地善良，从不怨恨任何事多久，并以孩子般坦诚甜蜜的笑容迎接了今天的儿子。

Angel sat down, and the place felt like home; yet he did not so much as formerly feel himself one of the family gathered there. Every time that he returned hither he was conscious of this divergence, and since he had last shared in the Vicarage life it had grown even more distinctly foreign to his own than usual. Its transcendental aspirations—still unconsciously based on the geocentric view of things, a zenithal paradise, a nadiral hell—were as foreign to his own as if they had been the dreams of people on another planet. Latterly he had seen only Life, felt only the great passionate pulse of existence, unwarped, uncontorted, untrammelled by those creeds which futilely attempt to check what wisdom would be content to regulate.
安吉尔坐下来，这个地方感觉像家一样；然而，他并不觉得自己是聚集在那里的家庭中的一员。每次他回到这里，他都会意识到这种分歧，自从他上次分享牧师住宅的生活以来，这种分歧对他自己来说比平时更加​​陌生。它的超然愿望——仍然无意识地基于地心论的事物观、天顶天堂、天底地狱——对他自己来说是陌生的，就好像它们是另一个星球上的人们的梦想一样。最近，他只看到了生命，只感受到了存在的巨大激情脉搏，没有扭曲，没有扭曲，不受那些徒劳地试图检查智慧是否愿意调节的信条的束缚。

On their part they saw a great difference in him, a growing divergence from the Angel Clare of former times. It was chiefly a difference in his manner that they noticed just now, particularly his brothers. He was getting to behave like a farmer; he flung his legs about; the muscles of his face had grown more expressive; his eyes looked as much information as his tongue spoke, and more. The manner of the scholar had nearly disappeared; still more the manner of the drawing-room young man. A prig would have said that he had lost culture, and a prude that he had become coarse. Such was the contagion of domiciliary fellowship with the Talbothays nymphs and swains.
就他们而言，他们看到了他的巨大差异，与昔日的安吉尔·克莱尔越来越背道而驰。他们刚才注意到的主要是他的态度的不同，尤其是他的兄弟们。他开始表现得像个农民了。他把腿甩来甩去；他脸上的肌肉变得更加富有表情。他的眼睛所看到的信息和他的舌头所说的一样多，甚至更多。学者的风度几乎消失了。更何况是客厅年轻人的举止。一本正经的人会说他失去了文化，而一个正经的人会说他变得粗俗。这就是与塔尔博塞斯的仙女和情人之间的家庭友谊的传染。

After breakfast he walked with his two brothers, non-evangelical, well-educated, hall-marked young men, correct to their remotest fibre, such unimpeachable models as are turned out yearly by the lathe of a systematic tuition. They were both somewhat short-sighted, and when it was the custom to wear a single eyeglass and string they wore a single eyeglass and string; when it was the custom to wear a double glass they wore a double glass; when it was the custom to wear spectacles they wore spectacles straightway, all without reference to the particular variety of defect in their own vision. When Wordsworth was enthroned they carried pocket copies; and when Shelley was belittled they allowed him to grow dusty on their shelves. When Correggio’s Holy Families were admired, they admired Correggio’s Holy Families; when he was decried in favour of Velasquez, they sedulously followed suit without any personal objection.
早餐后，他和他的两个兄弟一起散步，他们是非福音派、受过良好教育、具有显着特征的年轻人，纠正他们最遥远的纤维，这些无懈可击的模型每年都由系统学费的车床生产出来。他们都有点近视，当习惯戴单片眼镜和绳子时，他们就戴单片眼镜和绳子；当习惯戴双层眼镜时，他们就戴双层眼镜；当戴眼镜成为习惯时，他们就直接戴上眼镜，完全不考虑自己视力缺陷的具体情况。当华兹华斯登基时，他们随身带着袖珍本。当雪莱受到贬低时，他们就允许他在书架上沾满灰尘。当科雷乔的神圣家族受到钦佩时，他们就钦佩科雷乔的神圣家族；当他被谴责支持委拉斯开兹时，他们刻意效仿，没有任何个人反对。

If these two noticed Angel’s growing social ineptness, he noticed their growing mental limitations. Felix seemed to him all Church; Cuthbert all College. His Diocesan Synod and Visitations were the mainsprings of the world to the one; Cambridge to the other. Each brother candidly recognized that there were a few unimportant score of millions of outsiders in civilized society, persons who were neither University men nor churchmen; but they were to be tolerated rather than reckoned with and respected.
如果说这两个人注意到了安吉尔日益增长的社交无能，那么他也注意到了他们日益增长的精神局限性。在他看来，菲利克斯就是整个教会。卡斯伯特所有学院。他的教区会议和探访是世界的主要动力。剑桥到另一个。每个弟兄都坦白地承认，在文明社会的数以百万计的局外人中，有一小部分人既不是大学人，也不是牧师；但他们应该被容忍，而不是被重视和尊重。

They were both dutiful and attentive sons, and were regular in their visits to their parents. Felix, though an offshoot from a far more recent point in the devolution of theology than his father, was less self-sacrificing and disinterested. More tolerant than his father of a contradictory opinion, in its aspect as a danger to its holder, he was less ready than his father to pardon it as a slight to his own teaching. Cuthbert was, upon the whole, the more liberal-minded, though, with greater subtlety, he had not so much heart.
他们都是孝顺、细心的儿子，定期拜访父母。菲利克斯虽然是神学权力下放时期比他父亲晚得多的一个分支，但他却没有那么自我牺牲和无私。他比他的父亲更能容忍相反的观点，因为它对持有者构成危险，但他不像他的父亲那样愿意原谅它，因为它是对他自己的教义的蔑视。总体而言，卡斯伯特的思想更为开明，但更微妙的是，他并没有那么大的心胸。

As they walked along the hillside Angel’s former feeling revived in him—that whatever their advantages by comparison with himself, neither saw or set forth life as it really was lived. Perhaps, as with many men, their opportunities of observation were not so good as their opportunities of expression. Neither had an adequate conception of the complicated forces at work outside the smooth and gentle current in which they and their associates floated. Neither saw the difference between local truth and universal truth; that what the inner world said in their clerical and academic hearing was quite a different thing from what the outer world was thinking.
当他们沿着山坡行走时，安吉尔以前的感觉又在他身上复活了——无论与他相比，他们有什么优势，但他们都没有看到或阐述生活的真实情况。也许，和许多男人一样，他们观察的机会不如表达的机会好。他们和他们的同事都漂浮在平稳而温和的潮流之外，他们都没有充分了解正在发挥作用的复杂力量。两人都看不到局部真理和普遍真理之间的区别；内心世界在牧师和学术听证会上所说的与外部世界的想法完全不同。

‘I suppose it is farming or nothing for you now, my dear fellow,’ Felix was saying, among other things, to his youngest brother, as he looked through his spectacles at the distant fields with sad austerity. ‘And, therefore, we must make the best of it. But I do entreat you to endeavour to keep as much as possible in touch with moral ideals. Farming, of course, means roughing it externally; but high thinking may go with plain living, nevertheless.’
“我想，亲爱的朋友，你现在要么干农活，要么什么都不是。”菲利克斯一边对他最小的弟弟说，一边透过眼镜，悲伤而严肃地看着远处的田野。 ‘因此，我们必须充分利用它。但我确实恳请您努力尽可能地与道德理想保持联系。当然，务农意味着在外劳作。但无论如何，崇高的思想可能与朴素的生活相伴。

‘Of course it may,’ said Angel. ‘Was it not proved nineteen hundred years ago—if I may trespass upon your domain a little? Why should you think, Felix, that I am likely to drop my high thinking and my moral ideals?’
“当然可能，”安吉尔说。 ‘如果我可以稍微侵犯一下你的领地的话，一千九百年前就已经证明了这一点吗？菲利克斯，你为什么会认为我可能会放弃我的崇高思想和道德理想？

‘Well, I fancied, from the tone of your letters and our conversation—it may be fancy only—that you were somehow losing intellectual grasp. Hasn’t it struck you, Cuthbert?’
“嗯，我想，从你信中的语气和我们谈话的语气来看——这可能只是幻想——你不知何故失去了理智的把握。卡斯伯特，这没有让你震惊吗？

‘Now, Felix,’ said Angel drily, ‘we are very good friends, you know; each of us treading our allotted circles; but if it comes to intellectual grasp, I think you, as a contented dogmatist, had better leave mine alone, and inquire what has become of yours.’
“现在，菲利克斯，”安吉尔冷冷地说，“你知道，我们是很好的朋友；我们是好朋友。”我们每个人都在自己指定的圈子里行走；但如果说到理智上的把握，我想你，作为一个心满意足的教条主义者，最好别管我的，问问你的怎么样了。

They returned down the hill to dinner, which was fixed at any time at which their father’s and mother’s morning work in the parish usually concluded. Convenience as regarded afternoon callers was the last thing to enter into the consideration of unselfish Mr and Mrs Clare; though the three sons were sufficiently in unison on this matter to wish that their parents would conform a little to modern notions.
他们下山去吃晚饭，晚饭时间固定在他们父亲和母亲在教区的早晨工作通常结束的时间。无私的克莱尔先生和夫人最不考虑的是下午来访者的便利。尽管三个儿子在这个问题上意见一致，希望他们的父母能稍微符合现代观念。

The walk had made them hungry, Angel in particular, who was now an outdoor man, accustomed to the profuse dapes inemptae of the dairyman’s somewhat coarsely-laden table. But neither of the old people had arrived, and it was not till the sons were almost tired of waiting that their parents entered. The self-denying pair had been occupied in coaxing the appetites of some of their sick parishioners, whom they, somewhat inconsistently, tried to keep imprisoned in the flesh, their own appetites being quite forgotten.
步行让他们感到饥饿，尤其是安吉尔，他现在是一个户外活动的人，习惯了奶牛场老板略显粗糙的桌子上的大量空腹。但两位老人都没有到，直到儿子们等得快累了，父母才进来。这对克己的夫妇一直忙于哄骗一些生病的教区居民的胃口，他们有些不一致地试图将他们囚禁在肉体中，而他们自己的胃口却被完全忘记了。

The family sat down to table, and a frugal meal of cold viands was deposited before them. Angel looked round for Mrs Crick’s black-puddings, which he had directed to be nicely grilled as they did them at the dairy, and of which he wished his father and mother to appreciate the marvellous herbal savours as highly as he did himself.
一家人坐到餐桌旁，一顿简朴的冷菜摆在他们面前。安吉尔环顾四周寻找克里克太太的黑布丁，他吩咐把它们烤得很好，就像他们在奶牛场做的那样，他希望他的父母像他自己一样高度欣赏其中奇妙的草药味道。

‘Ah! you are looking for the black-puddings, my dear boy,’ observed Clare’s mother. ‘But I am sure you will not mind doing without them as I am sure your father and I shall not, when you know the reason. I suggested to him that we should take Mrs Crick’s kind present to the children of the man who can earn nothing just now because of his attacks of delirium tremens; and he agreed that it would be a great pleasure to them; so we did.’
'啊！你正在寻找黑布丁，我亲爱的孩子，”克莱尔的母亲说道。 “但我相信，当你知道原因后，你不会介意没有它们，就像我相信你的父亲和我不会介意的那样。”我向他建议，我们应该把克里克夫人的善意礼物送给这个因震颤性谵妄发作而一无所有的人的孩子们。他同意这对他们来说是一件非常高兴的事情。我们就这么做了。”

‘Of course,’ said Angel cheerfully, looking round for the mead.
“当然，”安吉尔高兴地说，环顾四周寻找蜂蜜酒。

‘I found the mead so extremely alcoholic,’ continued his mother, ‘that it was quite unfit for use as a beverage, but as valuable as rum or brandy in an emergency; so I have put it in my medicine-closet.’
“我发现这种蜂蜜酒的酒精含量非常高，”他的母亲继续说道，“它非常不适合用作饮料，但在紧急情况下与朗姆酒或白兰地一样有价值;所以我把它放在我的药柜里了。

‘We never drink spirits at this table, on principle,’ added his father.
“原则上，我们在这张桌子上从不喝烈酒，”他的父亲补充道。

‘But what shall I tell the dairyman’s wife?’ said Angel.
“但是我该告诉奶牛场老板的妻子什么呢？”安吉尔说。

‘The truth, of course,’ said his father.
“当然是事实，”他的父亲说。

‘I rather wanted to say we enjoyed the mead and the black-puddings very much. She is a kind, jolly sort of body, and is sure to ask me directly I return.’
“我想说我们非常喜欢蜂蜜酒和黑布丁。她是一个善良、快乐的人，我一回来肯定会问我。

‘You cannot, if we did not,’ Mr Clare answered lucidly.
“如果我们不这样做，你就不能这样做，”克莱尔先生清晰地回答道。

‘Ah—no; though that mead was a drop of pretty tipple.’
‘啊——不；虽然那蜂蜜酒是一滴美酒。”

‘A what?’ said Cuthbert and Felix both.
“什么？”卡斯伯特和菲利克斯都问道。

‘Oh—‘tis an expression they use down at Talbothays,’ replied Angel, blushing. He felt that his parents were right in their practice if wrong in their want of sentiment, and said no more.
“哦——这是他们在塔尔博塞斯使用的表达方式，”安吉尔红着脸回答道。他觉得父母的做法虽然没有感情，但做法是对的，便不再多说什么。

XXVI
二十六

It was not till the evening, after family prayers, that Angel found opportunity of broaching to his father one or two subjects near his heart. He had strung himself up to the purpose while kneeling behind his brothers on the carpet, studying the little nails in the heels of their walking boots. When the service was over they went out of the room with their mother, and Mr Clare and himself were left alone.
直到晚上，全家祈祷之后，安吉尔才找到机会向父亲提出一两个他关心的话题。为了达到这个目的，他跪在兄弟身后的地毯上，研究他们步行靴后跟上的小钉子。仪式结束后，他们和母亲一起走出了房间，只剩下克莱尔先生和他自己。

The young man first discussed with the elder his plans for the attainment of his position as a farmer on an extensive scale—either in England or in the Colonies. His father then told him that, as he had not been put to the expense of sending Angel up to Cambridge, he had felt it his duty to set by a sum of money every year towards the purchase or lease of land for him some day, that he might not feel himself unduly slighted.
年轻人首先与年长者讨论了他在英格兰或殖民地大规模实现农民地位的计划。然后他的父亲告诉他，由于他没有花钱送安吉尔去剑桥，他觉得自己有责任每年捐出一笔钱，以便有一天为他购买或租赁土地，这样他就不会感到自己受到了不当的轻视。

‘As far as worldly wealth goes,’ continued his father, ‘you will no doubt stand far superior to your brothers in a few years.’
“就世俗财富而言，”他的父亲继续说道，“毫无疑问，几年后你将远远优于你的兄弟。”

This considerateness on old Mr Clare’s part led Angel onward to the other and dearer subject. He observed to his father that he was then six-and-twenty, and that when he should start in the farming business he would require eyes in the back of his head to see to all matters—some one would be necessary to superintend the domestic labours of his establishment whilst he was afield. Would it not be well, therefore, for him to marry?
老克莱尔先生的体贴让安吉尔转向了另一个更重要的话题。他对父亲说，他当时六岁二十岁，当他开始从事农业生意时，他需要后脑勺的眼睛来照顾所有的事情——需要有人来监督家务。当他在外时，他为他的机构所做的劳动。那么，他结婚不是更好吗？

His father seemed to think this idea not unreasonable; and then Angel put the question—
父亲似乎觉得这个想法不无道理；然后安吉尔提出了问题——

‘What kind of wife do you think would be best for me as a thrifty hard-working farmer?’
“你认为我这个勤劳勤劳的农民最适合娶​​什么样的妻子？”

‘A truly Christian woman, who will be a help and a comfort to you in your goings-out and your comings-in. Beyond that, it really matters little. Such an one can be found; indeed, my earnest-minded friend and neighbour, Dr Chant—‘
‘一位真正的基督徒女性，在你出入时会为你提供帮助和安慰。除此之外，这真的无关紧要。这样的一个是可以找到的；事实上，我热心的朋友和邻居，钱特博士——”

‘But ought she not primarily to be able to milk cows, churn good butter, make immense cheeses; know how to sit hens and turkeys and rear chickens, to direct a field of labourers in an emergency, and estimate the value of sheep and calves?’
“但她不应该主要是能够挤奶、搅拌优质黄油、制作巨大的奶酪吗？知道如何饲养母鸡和火鸡，如何饲养鸡，如何在紧急情况下指挥田地里的劳动者，以及如何估算绵羊和牛犊的价值？

‘Yes; a farmer’s wife; yes, certainly. It would be desirable.’ Mr Clare, the elder, had plainly never thought of these points before. ‘I was going to add,’ he said, ‘that for a pure and saintly woman you will not find one more to your true advantage, and certainly not more to your mother’s mind and my own, than your friend Mercy, whom you used to show a certain interest in. It is true that my neighbour Chant’s daughter had lately caught up the fashion of the younger clergy round about us for decorating the Communion-table—altar, as I was shocked to hear her call it one day—with flowers and other stuff on festival occasions. But her father, who is quite as opposed to such flummery as I, says that can be cured. It is a mere girlish outbreak which, I am sure, will not be permanent.’
'是的;农民的妻子；是的，当然了。老克莱尔先生以前显然从未想到过这些问题。 “我要补充一点，”他说，“对于一个纯洁而圣洁的女人来说，你找不到比你所利用的朋友梅西更对你真正有利的人了，当然也不会比你母亲和我自己更有利。”确实，我的邻居钱特的女儿最近追上了我们周围年轻神职人员的时尚，装饰了圣餐桌——祭坛，有一天我很惊讶地听到她这样称呼它——节日场合的鲜花和其他物品。但她的父亲不像我一样反对这种愚蠢的行为，他说这是可以治愈的。这只是一次小女孩的爆发，我确信，它不会是永久性的。

‘Yes, yes; Mercy is good and devout, I know. But, father, don’t you think that a young woman equally pure and virtuous as Miss Chant, but one who, in place of that lady’s ecclesiastical accomplishments, understands the duties of farm life as well as a farmer himself, would suit me infinitely better?’
'是的是的;我知道，慈悲是好的，也是虔诚的。但是，父亲，您不认为一位像钱特小姐一样纯洁、贤惠的年轻女子会非常适合我吗？更好的？'

His father persisted in his conviction that a knowledge of a farmer’s wife’s duties came second to a Pauline view of humanity; and the impulsive Angel, wishing to honour his father’s feelings and to advance the cause of his heart at the same time, grew specious. He said that fate or Providence had thrown in his way a woman who possessed every qualification to be the helpmate of an agriculturist, and was decidedly of a serious turn of mind. He would not say whether or not she had attached herself to the sound Low Church School of his father; but she would probably be open to conviction on that point; she was a regular church-goer of simple faith; honest-hearted, receptive, intelligent, graceful to a degree, chaste as a vestal, and, in personal appearance, exceptionally beautiful.
他的父亲坚持认为，对农妇责任的了解仅次于波琳的人性观。而冲动的天使，希望尊重父亲的感情，同时推进他内心的事业，变得似是而非。他说，命运或天意给了他一个女人，她完全具备成为农学家助手的资格，而且思想绝对认真。他不愿透露她是否曾就读于他父亲创办的健全的低教会学校。但在这一点上，她可能愿意相信；她经常去教堂做礼拜，信仰单纯。心地诚实，善于接受，聪明，优雅，贞洁如圣女，而且，在个人外表上，异常美丽。

‘Is she of a family such as you would care to marry into—a lady, in short?’ asked his startled mother, who had come softly into the study during the conversation.
“她是你愿意嫁给的那种家庭吗——简而言之，是一位女士吗？”他的母亲在谈话期间轻轻地走进书房，惊讶地问道。

‘She is not what in common parlance is called a lady,’ said Angel, unflinchingly, ‘for she is a cottager’s daughter, as I am proud to say. But she IS a lady, nevertheless—in feeling and nature.’
“她不是一般意义上的女士，”安吉尔毫不畏缩地说，“因为她是一个农夫的女儿，我很自豪地说。但无论如何，她在感情和本性上都是一位女士。”

‘Mercy Chant is of a very good family.’
“Mercy Chant 的家庭非常好。”

‘Pooh!—what’s the advantage of that, mother?’ said Angel quickly. ‘How is family to avail the wife of a man who has to rough it as I have, and shall have to do?’
“呸！——那有什么好处呢，妈妈？”安吉尔赶紧说道。 “一个男人的妻子必须像我一样过着艰难的生活，而且也将不得不这样做，家庭怎么能帮助他呢？”

‘Mercy is accomplished. And accomplishments have their charm,’ returned his mother, looking at him through her silver spectacles.
‘慈悲已成。成就自有其魅力。”他的母亲透过银色眼镜看着他，回答道。

‘As to external accomplishments, what will be the use of them in the life I am going to lead?—while as to her reading, I can take that in hand. She’ll be apt pupil enough, as you would say if you knew her. She’s brim full of poetry—actualized poetry, if I may use the expression. She LIVES what paper-poets only write... And she is an unimpeachable Christian, I am sure; perhaps of the very tribe, genus, and species you desire to propagate.’
“至于外在的成就，它们在我将要过的生活中有什么用？——而至于她的阅读，我可以掌握。”如果你认识她的话，你会说她是个很聪明的学生。她充满了诗意——现实的诗意，如果我可以用这样的表达方式的话。她过着纸上诗人所写的生活……我确信她是一位无可挑剔的基督徒；也许正是您想要繁殖的部落、属和物种。

‘O Angel, you are mocking!’
“天使啊，你在嘲笑！”

‘Mother, I beg pardon. But as she really does attend Church almost every Sunday morning, and is a good Christian girl, I am sure you will tolerate any social shortcomings for the sake of that quality, and feel that I may do worse than choose her.’ Angel waxed quite earnest on that rather automatic orthodoxy in his beloved Tess which (never dreaming that it might stand him in such good stead) he had been prone to slight when observing it practised by her and the other milkmaids, because of its obvious unreality amid beliefs essentially naturalistic.
‘妈妈，请原谅。但由于她确实几乎每个星期天早上都会去教堂，而且是一个优秀的基督教女孩，我相信您会为了这种品质而容忍任何社会缺陷，并且觉得我可能会比选择她做得更糟糕。”安吉尔非常高兴他热衷于他心爱的​​苔丝身上那种相当自动的正统观念（从未梦想过这会对他有如此大的好处），当他观察她和其他挤奶女工所实践的这种观念时，他很容易轻视它，因为它在本质上是自然主义的信仰中明显不真实。

In their sad doubts as to whether their son had himself any right whatever to the title he claimed for the unknown young woman, Mr and Mrs Clare began to feel it as an advantage not to be overlooked that she at least was sound in her views; especially as the conjunction of the pair must have arisen by an act of Providence; for Angel never would have made orthodoxy a condition of his choice. They said finally that it was better not to act in a hurry, but that they would not object to see her.
克莱尔先生和夫人在悲伤地怀疑他们的儿子是否有权获得他为这位不知名的年轻女子所声称的头衔时，开始感到这是一个不容忽视的优势，因为她至少在她的观点上是正确的;特别是因为这对的结合必定是由天意造成的；因为安吉尔永远不会把正统作为他选择的条件。他们最后说最好不要着急，但他们不会反对见她。

Angel therefore refrained from declaring more particulars now. He felt that, single-minded and self-sacrificing as his parents were, there yet existed certain latent prejudices of theirs, as middle-class people, which it would require some tact to overcome. For though legally at liberty to do as he chose, and though their daughter-in-law’s qualifications could make no practical difference to their lives, in the probability of her living far away from them, he wished for affection’s sake not to wound their sentiment in the most important decision of his life.
因此，安吉尔现在没有透露更多细节。他觉得，虽然他的父母一心一意、有自我牺牲精神，但作为中产阶级，他们仍然存在某些潜在的偏见，需要一些机智来克服。因为虽然在法律上他可以自由地做他所选择的事情，尽管他们儿媳妇的资格对他们的生活没有实际的影响，但她很可能住在离他们很远的地方，但出于感情​​的缘故，他希望不要伤害他们的感情在他一生中最重要的决定中。

He observed his own inconsistencies in dwelling upon accidents in Tess’s life as if they were vital features. It was for herself that he loved Tess; her soul, her heart, her substance—not for her skill in the dairy, her aptness as his scholar, and certainly not for her simple formal faith-professions. Her unsophisticated open-air existence required no varnish of conventionality to make it palatable to him. He held that education had as yet but little affected the beats of emotion and impulse on which domestic happiness depends. It was probable that, in the lapse of ages, improved systems of moral and intellectual training would appreciably, perhaps considerably, elevate the involuntary and even the unconscious instincts of human nature; but up to the present day, culture, as far as he could see, might be said to have affected only the mental epiderm of those lives which had been brought under its influence. This belief was confirmed by his experience of women, which, having latterly been extended from the cultivated middle-class into the rural community, had taught him how much less was the intrinsic difference between the good and wise woman of one social stratum and the good and wise woman of another social stratum, than between the good and bad, the wise and the foolish, of the same stratum or class.
他在详述苔丝生活中的意外事件时发现了自己的前后矛盾，就好像它们是重要的特征一样。他爱苔丝是为了她自己。她的灵魂，她的心，她的物质——不是因为她在乳品行业的技能，她作为学者的才能，当然也不是因为她简单正式的信仰职业。她朴素的露天生活不需要任何传统的修饰就能让他感到愉快。他认为，教育对家庭幸福所依赖的情感和冲动的节拍影响甚微。随着时间的流逝，道德和智力训练体系的改进很可能会明显地、也许相当大地提高人性的非自愿甚至无意识的本能；但直到今天，在他看来，文化可以说只影响了那些受其影响的人们的精神表皮。这种信念被他对女性的经历所证实，后来这种经历从有教养的中产阶级延伸到了农村社区，让他知道一个社会阶层的善良而聪明的女性与善良的女性之间的本质区别是多么小。另一个社会阶层的聪明女人，而不是同一阶层或阶级的好与坏、聪明与愚蠢之间。

It was the morning of his departure. His brothers had already left the Vicarage to proceed on a walking tour in the north, whence one was to return to his college, and the other to his curacy. Angel might have accompanied them, but preferred to rejoin his sweetheart at Talbothays. He would have been an awkward member of the party; for, though the most appreciative humanist, the most ideal religionist, even the best-versed Christologist of the three, there was alienation in the standing consciousness that his squareness would not fit the round hole that had been prepared for him. To neither Felix nor Cuthbert had he ventured to mention Tess.
那是他出发的那天早上。他的兄弟们已经离开牧师住宅，前往北方徒步旅行，其中一个将返回他的大学，另一个将返回他的教区。安吉尔本可以陪伴他们，但更愿意在塔尔博塞斯与他的爱人团聚。他在党内会是一个尴尬的成员。因为，尽管是最有鉴赏力的人文主义者，最理想的宗教主义者，甚至是三者中最精通的基督论者，但他的站立意识中却存在着疏离感，因为他的方形与为他准备的圆洞不相称。他从来没有向菲利克斯和卡斯伯特提起过苔丝。

His mother made him sandwiches, and his father accompanied him, on his own mare, a little way along the road. Having fairly well advanced his own affairs, Angel listened in a willing silence, as they jogged on together through the shady lanes, to his father’s account of his parish difficulties, and the coldness of brother clergymen whom he loved, because of his strict interpretations of the New Testament by the light of what they deemed a pernicious Calvinistic doctrine.
他的母亲给他做了三明治，他的父亲骑着他自己的母马陪着他，沿着路走了一小段路。安吉尔已经相当顺利地完成了自己的事务，当他们一起慢跑穿过阴凉的小巷时，安吉尔默默地听着他父亲讲述他教区的困难，以及他所爱的牧师兄弟的冷漠，因为他对教区的严格解释。他们认为新约是有害的加尔文主义教义。

‘Pernicious!’ said Mr Clare, with genial scorn; and he proceeded to recount experiences which would show the absurdity of that idea. He told of wondrous conversions of evil livers of which he had been the instrument, not only amongst the poor, but amongst the rich and well-to-do; and he also candidly admitted many failures.
“有害！”克莱尔先生亲切地轻蔑地说。他接着讲述了一些经验，这些经验证明了这个想法的荒谬性。他讲述了邪恶的肝脏奇妙的转变，他是其中的工具，不仅在穷人中，而且在富人和富裕阶层中。并且他也坦诚地承认了很多失败。

As an instance of the latter, he mentioned the case of a young upstart squire named d’Urberville, living some forty miles off, in the neighbourhood of Trantridge.
作为后者的一个例子，他提到了一位名叫德伯维尔的年轻暴发户乡绅的例子，他住在四十英里外的特兰特里奇附近。

‘Not one of the ancient d’Urbervilles of Kingsbere and other places?’ asked his son. ‘That curiously historic worn-out family with its ghostly legend of the coach-and-four?’
“不是金斯贝尔和其他地方古老的德伯维尔家族之一吗？”他的儿子问道。 “那个历史悠久、破旧不堪的家族，有着马车和四人的幽灵般的传说？”

‘O no. The original d’Urbervilles decayed and disappeared sixty or eighty years ago—at least, I believe so. This seems to be a new family which had taken the name; for the credit of the former knightly line I hope they are spurious, I’m sure. But it is odd to hear you express interest in old families. I thought you set less store by them even than I.’
‘噢，不。最初的德伯维尔家族在六十或八十年前就已经腐烂并消失了——至少我相信是这样。这似乎是一个新的家族，取了这个名字；对于前骑士血统的信誉，我确信他们是假的。但听到你对古老的家庭表现出兴趣，感觉很奇怪。我以为你比我更不重视它们。

‘You misapprehend me, father; you often do,’ said Angel with a little impatience. ‘Politically I am sceptical as to the virtue of their being old. Some of the wise even among themselves ‘exclaim against their own succession,’ as Hamlet puts it; but lyrically, dramatically, and even historically, I am tenderly attached to them.’
“你误解了我的意思，父亲；你经常这样做。”安吉尔有些不耐烦地说。 “从政治上来说，我对他们年老的好处持怀疑态度。正如哈姆雷特所说，一些智者甚至在他们自己内部也“大声反对自己的继承”。但从抒情的角度、戏剧性的角度，甚至从历史角度来看，我都对它们怀有温柔的依恋。

This distinction, though by no means a subtle one, was yet too subtle for Mr Clare the elder, and he went on with the story he had been about to relate; which was that after the death of the senior so-called d’Urberville, the young man developed the most culpable passions, though he had a blind mother, whose condition should have made him know better. A knowledge of his career having come to the ears of Mr Clare, when he was in that part of the country preaching missionary sermons, he boldly took occasion to speak to the delinquent on his spiritual state. Though he was a stranger, occupying another’s pulpit, he had felt this to be his duty, and took for his text the words from St Luke: ‘Thou fool, this night thy soul shall be required of thee!’ The young man much resented this directness of attack, and in the war of words which followed when they met he did not scruple publicly to insult Mr Clare, without respect for his gray hairs.
这种区别虽然绝不是一个微妙的区别，但对老克莱尔先生来说却太微妙了，他继续讲他即将讲述的故事。那就是，在所谓的德伯维尔老人死后，这个年轻人产生了最可恶的激情，尽管他有一个失明的母亲，她的状况应该让他更了解。当克莱尔先生在该国那个地区传教布道时，他的职业生涯的知识传到了他的耳朵里，他大胆地利用机会向罪犯讲述了他的精神状态。尽管他是一个陌生人，占据着别人的讲坛，但他觉得这是他的职责，并把圣路加的话当作他的文字：“你这个傻瓜，今晚你的灵魂将被追索！”年轻人非常怨恨。这种直接的攻击，以及随后他们见面时的口水战中，他毫不顾忌地公开侮辱克莱尔先生，不尊重他的白发。

Angel flushed with distress.
安琪尔痛苦地满脸通红。

‘Dear father,’ he said sadly, ‘I wish you would not expose yourself to such gratuitous pain from scoundrels!’
“亲爱的父亲，”他悲伤地说，“我希望你不要让自己遭受流氓无端的痛苦！”

‘Pain?’ said his father, his rugged face shining in the ardour of self-abnegation. ‘The only pain to me was pain on his account, poor, foolish young man. Do you suppose his incensed words could give me any pain, or even his blows? ‘Being reviled we bless; being persecuted we suffer it; being defamed we entreat; we are made as the filth of the world, and as the offscouring of all things unto this day.’ Those ancient and noble words to the Corinthians are strictly true at this present hour.’
“痛苦吗？”他的父亲问道，粗糙的脸上闪烁着自我克制的热情。 “对我来说，唯一的痛苦就是他的痛苦，可怜又愚蠢的年轻人。你认为他的愤怒的话会给我带来任何痛苦，甚至他的打击吗？ ‘被辱骂我们祝福；受迫害，我们受苦；被诽谤我们恳求；直到今天，我们仍被视为世界的污秽，万物的渣滓。”这些对哥林多人的古老而崇高的话语在当今时刻是完全正确的。

‘Not blows, father? He did not proceed to blows?’
“不是打架吗，父亲？他没有动手打人吗？

‘No, he did not. Though I have borne blows from men in a mad state of intoxication.’
'不，他没有。尽管我在疯狂的醉酒状态下受到了人们的打击。

‘No!’
'不！'

‘A dozen times, my boy. What then? I have saved them from the guilt of murdering their own flesh and blood thereby; and they have lived to thank me, and praise God.’
‘十几次了，我的孩子。然后怎样呢？我借此将他们从谋杀自己骨肉的罪孽中拯救出来；他们活着是为了感谢我，赞美上帝。”

‘May this young man do the same!’ said Angel fervently. ‘But I fear otherwise, from what you say.’
“愿这个年轻人也这样做！”安吉尔热切地说。 “但根据你的说法，我担心情况并非如此。”

‘We’ll hope, nevertheless,’ said Mr Clare. ‘And I continue to pray for him, though on this side of the grave we shall probably never meet again. But, after all, one of those poor words of mine may spring up in his heart as a good seed some day.’
“不过，我们还是希望如此，”克莱尔先生说。 “我继续为他祈祷，尽管在坟墓的这一边我们可能永远不会再见面了。但是，毕竟，我的那些糟糕的话有一天可能会像一颗好种子一样在他心里萌芽。

Now, as always, Clare’s father was sanguine as a child; and though the younger could not accept his parent’s narrow dogma, he revered his practice and recognized the hero under the pietist. Perhaps he revered his father’s practice even more now than ever, seeing that, in the question of making Tessy his wife, his father had not once thought of inquiring whether she were well provided or penniless. The same unworldliness was what had necessitated Angel’s getting a living as a farmer, and would probably keep his brothers in the position of poor parsons for the term of their activities; yet Angel admired it none the less. Indeed, despite his own heterodoxy, Angel often felt that he was nearer to his father on the human side than was either of his brethren.
现在，克莱尔的父亲一如既往地像个孩子一样乐观。虽然弟弟无法接受父母狭隘的教条，但他尊重父母的做法，并承认虔诚者下的英雄。也许他现在比以往任何时候都更尊重父亲的做法，因为在娶泰西为妻的问题上，他的父亲从来没有想过询问她是否富裕或身无分文。同样的超凡脱俗使得安吉尔必须以农民的身份谋生，并且很可能会让他的兄弟们在他们的活动期间处于贫穷的牧师的地位。但安吉尔仍然很欣赏它。事实上，尽管安吉尔自己持异端观点，但他经常觉得，在人性方面，他比他的两个兄弟更接近他的父亲。

XXVII
第二十七

An up-hill and down-hill ride of twenty-odd miles through a garish mid-day atmosphere brought him in the afternoon to a detached knoll a mile or two west of Talbothays, whence he again looked into that green trough of sappiness and humidity, the valley of the Var or Froom. Immediately he began to descend from the upland to the fat alluvial soil below, the atmosphere grew heavier; the languid perfume of the summer fruits, the mists, the hay, the flowers, formed therein a vast pool of odour which at this hour seemed to make the animals, the very bees and butterflies drowsy. Clare was now so familiar with the spot that he knew the individual cows by their names when, a long distance off, he saw them dotted about the meads. It was with a sense of luxury that he recognized his power of viewing life here from its inner side, in a way that had been quite foreign to him in his student-days; and, much as he loved his parents, he could not help being aware that to come here, as now, after an experience of home-life, affected him like throwing off splints and bandages; even the one customary curb on the humours of English rural societies being absent in this place, Talbothays having no resident landlord.
下午，他在浓浓的正午气氛中上下山行驶了二十多英里，到达了塔尔博塞斯以西一两英里处的一座独立小山丘，从那里他再次眺望那片充满幸福和潮湿的绿色低谷。 ，瓦尔或弗鲁姆山谷。随即，他开始从高地下降到下面肥沃的冲积土，气氛变得更加凝重。夏季水果、薄雾、干草、花朵的慵懒香气，在其中形成一大堆气味，此时似乎使动物、蜜蜂和蝴蝶昏昏欲睡。克莱尔现在对这个地方非常熟悉，当他在很远的地方看到它们点缀在草地上时，他就知道每一头牛的名字。带着一种奢侈的感觉，他认识到自己有能力从内心看待这里的生活，而这种方式对他学生时代来说是相当陌生的。尽管他很爱他的父母，但他还是情不自禁地意识到，在经历了一次家庭生活之后来到这里，就像扔掉夹板和绷带一样，对他产生了影响。甚至英国乡村社会的一种习惯性限制在这个地方也不存在，塔尔博塞斯没有常住房东。

Not a human being was out of doors at the dairy. The denizens were all enjoying the usual afternoon nap of an hour or so which the exceedingly early hours kept in summer-time rendered a necessity. At the door the wood-hooped pails, sodden and bleached by infinite scrubbings, hung like hats on a stand upon the forked and peeled limb of an oak fixed there for that purpose; all of them ready and dry for the evening milking. Angel entered, and went through the silent passages of the house to the back quarters, where he listened for a moment. Sustained snores came from the cart-house, where some of the men were lying down; the grunt and squeal of sweltering pigs arose from the still further distance. The large-leaved rhubarb and cabbage plants slept too, their broad limp surfaces hanging in the sun like half-closed umbrellas.
乳品厂门外没有一个人。居民们都在享受通常一个小时左右的午睡，在夏季，提早的时间使得这一点变得必要。门口的木箍桶经过无数次的擦洗，已经湿透、变白，像帽子一样挂在架子上，架子上有一棵橡树的分叉和去皮的树枝，为此目的而固定在那里。所有这些都已准备好并干燥，以便晚上挤奶。安吉尔进来了，穿过房子里寂静的通道，来到后院，在那里听了一会儿。马车房里传来持续不断的鼾声，一些人正躺在那里。更远的地方传来闷热的猪的咕噜声和尖叫声。大叶大黄和卷心菜也睡着了，它们宽阔、柔软的表面像半合的雨伞一样悬挂在阳光下。

He unbridled and fed his horse, and as he re-entered the house the clock struck three. Three was the afternoon skimming-hour; and, with the stroke, Clare heard the creaking of the floor-boards above, and then the touch of a descending foot on the stairs. It was Tess’s, who in another moment came down before his eyes.
他松开缰绳，喂马，当他重新进屋时，时钟敲响了三点。三点是下午的浏览时间。随着这一击，克莱尔听到上面地板的嘎吱声，然后是脚步踩在楼梯上的声音。是苔丝的，转眼间，她就来到了他的眼前。

She had not heard him enter, and hardly realized his presence there. She was yawning, and he saw the red interior of her mouth as if it had been a snake’s. She had stretched one arm so high above her coiled-up cable of hair that he could see its satin delicacy above the sunburn; her face was flushed with sleep, and her eyelids hung heavy over their pupils. The brim-fulness of her nature breathed from her. It was a moment when a woman’s soul is more incarnate than at any other time; when the most spiritual beauty bespeaks itself flesh; and sex takes the outside place in the presentation.
她没有听到他进来，也几乎没有意识到他在那里。她正在打哈欠，他看到她嘴里的红色就像蛇的嘴一样。她把一只手臂伸得那么高，高高地高高地举在盘起的发辫上，他可以看到晒伤上方那丝缎般的精致。她的脸因睡意而涨红，眼睑沉重地垂在瞳孔上。她身上散发着浓郁的天性。在这个时刻，女人的灵魂比任何时候都更加具体。当最灵性的美展现在肉体上时；在演示中，性占据了外部位置。

Then those eyes flashed brightly through their filmy heaviness, before the remainder of her face was well awake. With an oddly compounded look of gladness, shyness, and surprise, she exclaimed—‘O Mr Clare! How you frightened me—I—‘
然后，在她脸上的其余部分完全清醒之前，那双眼睛在朦胧的沉重中闪烁着明亮的光芒。她脸上带着一种奇怪的混合着高兴、害羞和惊讶的表情，大声喊道：“克莱尔先生啊！你多么让我害怕——我——”

There had not at first been time for her to think of the changed relations which his declaration had introduced; but the full sense of the matter rose up in her face when she encountered Clare’s tender look as he stepped forward to the bottom stair.
她一开始没有时间考虑他的声明所带来的关系的变化。但当她看到克莱尔走向最底层楼梯时温柔的目光时，她的脸上浮现出这件事的全部意义。

‘Dear, darling Tessy!’ he whispered, putting his arm round her, and his face to her flushed cheek. ‘Don’t, for Heaven’s sake, Mister me any more. I have hastened back so soon because of you!’
“亲爱的，亲爱的泰西！”他低声说道，用手臂搂住她，脸贴着她泛红的脸颊。 “看在老天爷的份上，别再叫我先生了。”我这么快就回来了，都是因为你啊！”

Tess’s excitable heart beat against his by way of reply; and there they stood upon the red-brick floor of the entry, the sun slanting in by the window upon his back, as he held her tightly to his breast; upon her inclining face, upon the blue veins of her temple, upon her naked arm, and her neck, and into the depths of her hair. Having been lying down in her clothes she was warm as a sunned cat. At first she would not look straight up at him, but her eyes soon lifted, and his plumbed the deepness of the ever-varying pupils, with their radiating fibrils of blue, and black, and gray, and violet, while she regarded him as Eve at her second waking might have regarded Adam.
苔丝激动的心随着他的心跳而作答。他们站在入口处的红砖地板上，阳光从窗户斜射到他的背上，他将她紧紧地抱在怀里。在她倾斜的脸上，在她太阳穴的青筋上，在她赤裸的手臂上，在她的脖子上，在她的头发深处。穿着衣服躺下后，她像晒太阳的猫一样温暖。起初她并没有直视他，但她的眼睛很快就抬起来，他探查着不断变化的瞳孔的深度，瞳孔中放射着蓝色、黑色、灰色和紫色的纤维，而她则把他视为夏娃第二次醒来时可能会注视着亚当。

‘I’ve got to go a-skimming,’ she pleaded, ‘and I have on’y old Deb to help me to-day. Mrs Crick is gone to market with Mr Crick, and Retty is not well, and the others are gone out somewhere, and won’t be home till milking.’
“我得去浏览一下，”她恳求道，“今天只有老黛布来帮助我了。”克里克太太和克里克先生一起去了市场，雷蒂身体不太好，其他人都出去了，直到挤奶才回家。

As they retreated to the milk-house Deborah Fyander appeared on the stairs.
当他们撤退到牛奶房时，黛博拉·费安德出现在楼梯上。

‘I have come back, Deborah,’ said Mr Clare, upwards. ‘So I can help Tess with the skimming; and, as you are very tired, I am sure, you needn’t come down till milking-time.’
“我回来了，黛博拉，”克莱尔先生向上说道。 “所以我可以帮助苔丝略读；而且，我确信你很累，所以直到挤奶时间你都不需要下来。

Possibly the Talbothays milk was not very thoroughly skimmed that afternoon. Tess was in a dream wherein familiar objects appeared as having light and shade and position, but no particular outline. Every time she held the skimmer under the pump to cool it for the work her hand trembled, the ardour of his affection being so palpable that she seemed to flinch under it like a plant in too burning a sun.
那天下午，塔尔博塞斯牛奶可能没有彻底脱脂。苔丝在梦中，梦中出现了熟悉的物体，有光影和位置，但没有特定的轮廓。每次她把撇渣器放在泵下冷却它以进行工作时，她的手都会颤抖，他的热情如此明显，她似乎在它下面退缩，就像一棵植物在太热的阳光下一样。

Then he pressed her again to his side, and when she had done running her forefinger round the leads to cut off the cream-edge, he cleaned it in nature’s way; for the unconstrained manners of Talbothays dairy came convenient now.
然后他又把她按到自己身边，当她用食指绕着引线剪掉奶油色边缘后，他用自然的方式把它清理干净；塔尔博塞斯乳品厂的无拘无束的举止现在变得很方便。

‘I may as well say it now as later, dearest,’ he resumed gently. ‘I wish to ask you something of a very practical nature, which I have been thinking of ever since that day last week in the meads. I shall soon want to marry, and, being a farmer, you see I shall require for my wife a woman who knows all about the management of farms. Will you be that woman, Tessy?’
“亲爱的，我现在再说也好，以后再说也好。”他温和地继续说道。 “我想问你一些非常实际的问题，从上周在草地上的那天起我就一直在想这个问题。我很快就会想结婚，而且，作为一名农民，你看，我需要一个懂得农场管理的女人作为我的妻子。你会成为那个女人吗，泰西？

He put it that way that she might not think he had yielded to an impulse of which his head would disapprove.
他这样说，是为了让她不会认为他屈服于他的头脑不赞成的冲动。

She turned quite careworn. She had bowed to the inevitable result of proximity, the necessity of loving him; but she had not calculated upon this sudden corollary, which, indeed, Clare had put before her without quite meaning himself to do it so soon. With pain that was like the bitterness of dissolution she murmured the words of her indispensable and sworn answer as an honourable woman.
她变得非常忧心忡忡。她屈服于接近的必然结果，屈服于爱他的必要性。但她并没有考虑到这个突然的推论，事实上，克莱尔把这个推论摆在她面前，并不是有意这么快就这么做。她怀着如同解散的苦涩般的痛苦，低声说出了作为一个尊贵的女人必不可少的、发誓的回答。

‘O Mr Clare—I cannot be your wife—I cannot be!’
“克莱尔先生啊——我不能成为你的妻子——我不能！”

The sound of her own decision seemed to break Tess’s very heart, and she bowed her face in her grief.
苔丝自己的决定似乎让她心碎了，她悲伤地低下了脸。

‘But, Tess!’ he said, amazed at her reply, and holding her still more greedily close. ‘Do you say no? Surely you love me?’
“但是，苔丝！”他说，对她的回答感到惊讶，并更加贪婪地把她抱得更近。 ‘你说不？你真的爱我吗？

‘O yes, yes! And I would rather be yours than anybody’s in the world,’ returned the sweet and honest voice of the distressed girl. ‘But I CANNOT marry you!’
哦，是的，是的！我宁愿成为你的人，也不愿成为世界上任何人的人。”心疼的女孩用甜美而诚实的声音回答道。 “但我不能嫁给你！”

‘Tess,’ he said, holding her at arm’s length, ‘you are engaged to marry some one else!’
“苔丝，”他一边说，一边与她保持一定的距离，“你已经订婚了，要嫁给别人了！”

‘No, no!’
'不，不！'

‘Then why do you refuse me?’
“那你为什么拒绝我？”

‘I don’t want to marry! I have not thought of doing it. I cannot! I only want to love you.’
‘我不想结婚！我还没有想过这样做。我不能！我只想爱你。

‘But why?’
'但为什么？'

Driven to subterfuge, she stammered—
她被迫采取诡计，结结巴巴地说——

‘Your father is a parson, and your mother wouldn’ like you to marry such as me. She will want you to marry a lady.’
‘你的父亲是一位牧师，你的母亲不会’希望你嫁给像我这样的人。她会希望你娶一位女士。

‘Nonsense—I have spoken to them both. That was partly why I went home.’
“胡说八道——我已经跟他们俩说过话了。这就是我回家的部分原因。

‘I feel I cannot—never, never!’ she echoed.
“我觉得我不能——永远，永远！”她重复道。

‘Is it too sudden to be asked thus, my Pretty?’
“我的美人，这么问是不是太突然了？”

‘Yes—I did not expect it.’
“是的——我没想到会这样。”

‘If you will let it pass, please, Tessy, I will give you time,’ he said. ‘It was very abrupt to come home and speak to you all at once. I’ll not allude to it again for a while.’
“如果你愿意让它过去，拜托，泰西，我会给你时间，”他说。 “一下子回家和大家说话真是太突然了。我暂时不会再提及它。

She again took up the shining skimmer, held it beneath the pump, and began anew. But she could not, as at other times, hit the exact under-surface of the cream with the delicate dexterity required, try as she might; sometimes she was cutting down into the milk, sometimes in the air. She could hardly see, her eyes having filled with two blurring tears drawn forth by a grief which, to this her best friend and dear advocate, she could never explain.
她再次拿起闪亮的撇渣器，将其放在泵下方，然后重新开始。但她无法像其他时候一样，以所需的细腻灵巧程度准确地击中奶油的下表面，尽管她可能会尝试;有时她切入牛奶，有时切入空气。她几乎看不见了，她的眼睛里充满了两滴模糊的泪水，这是由悲伤所流出来的，而对于她最好的朋友和亲爱的辩护人来说，她永远无法解释这种悲伤。

‘I can’t skim—I can’t!’ she said, turning away from him.
“我不能浏览——我不能！”她说着，转身离开了他。

Not to agitate and hinder her longer, the considerate Clare began talking in a more general way:
为了不再打扰和阻碍她，体贴的克莱尔开始用更笼统的方式说话：

You quite misapprehend my parents. They are the most simple-mannered people alive, and quite unambitious. They are two of the few remaining Evangelical school. Tessy, are you an Evangelical?’
你太误解我父母了。他们是世上最朴实的人，也没有什么野心。他们是仅存的少数福音派学校中的两所。泰西，你是福音派人士吗？

‘I don’t know.’
'我不知道。'

‘You go to church very regularly, and our parson here is not very High, they tell me.’
“他们告诉我，你经常去教堂，而我们这里的牧师地位不高。”

Tess’s ideas on the views of the parish clergyman, whom she heard every week, seemed to be rather more vague than Clare’s, who had never heard him at all.
苔丝每周都会听到教区牧师的观点，她对他的看法似乎比克莱尔更加模糊，因为克莱尔根本没有听过教区牧师的意见。

‘I wish I could fix my mind on what I hear there more firmly than I do,’ she remarked as a safe generality. ‘It is often a great sorrow to me.’
“我希望我能比我自己更坚定地专注于我在那里听到的事情，”她安全地概括道。 “这对我来说常常是一种巨大的悲伤。”

She spoke so unaffectedly that Angel was sure in his heart that his father could not object to her on religious grounds, even though she did not know whether her principles were High, Low or Broad. He himself knew that, in reality, the confused beliefs which she held, apparently imbibed in childhood, were, if anything, Tractarian as to phraseology, and Pantheistic as to essence. Confused or otherwise, to disturb them was his last desire:
她说得那么不做作，让安吉尔心里确信，父亲不可能以宗教为由反对她，尽管她不知道她的原则是高、低还是宽。他自己也知道，实际上，她持有的那些显然是在童年时期就吸收的混乱信念，如果说有什么不同的话，那就是在措辞上是特拉克主义，在本质上是泛神论。不管是困惑还是其他，打扰他们是他最后的愿望：

Leave thou thy sister, when she prays,
当你的妹妹祈祷时，请离开她，

 Her early Heaven, her happy views;
她早年的天堂，她幸福的风景；

 Nor thou with shadow’d hint confuse
你也不会因为阴影的暗示而感到困惑

A life that leads melodious days.
过着悠扬日子的生活。

He had occasionally thought the counsel less honest than musical; but he gladly conformed to it now.
他有时会觉得这个劝告不如音乐那么诚实。但他现在很高兴地遵守了。

He spoke further of the incidents of his visit, of his father’s mode of life, of his zeal for his principles; she grew serener, and the undulations disappeared from her skimming; as she finished one lead after another he followed her, and drew the plugs for letting down the milk.
他进一步谈到了他访问期间的事件、他父亲的生活方式以及他对原则的热情；她变得更加平静，浏览时的起伏也消失了。当她完成一根又一根的引导时，他跟着她，拔掉塞子以排出牛奶。

‘I fancied you looked a little downcast when you came in,’ she ventured to observe, anxious to keep away from the subject of herself.
“我觉得你进来时看上去有点沮丧，”她大胆地观察道，急于摆脱自己的话题。

‘Yes—well, my father had been talking a good deal to me of his troubles and difficulties, and the subject always tends to depress me. He is so zealous that he gets many snubs and buffetings from people of a different way of thinking from himself, and I don’t like to hear of such humiliations to a man of his age, the more particularly as I don’t think earnestness does any good when carried so far. He has been telling me of a very unpleasant scene in which he took part quite recently. He went as the deputy of some missionary society to preach in the neighbourhood of Trantridge, a place forty miles from here, and made it his business to expostulate with a lax young cynic he met with somewhere about there—son of some landowner up that way—and who has a mother afflicted with blindness. My father addressed himself to the gentleman point-blank, and there was quite a disturbance. It was very foolish of my father, I must say, to intrude his conversation upon a stranger when the probabilities were so obvious that it would be useless. But whatever he thinks to be his duty, that he’ll do, in season or out of season; and, of course, he makes many enemies, not only among the absolutely vicious, but among the easy-going, who hate being bothered. He says he glories in what happened, and that good may be done indirectly; but I wish he would not wear himself out now he is getting old, and would leave such pigs to their wallowing.’
“是的——嗯，我的父亲一直在跟我谈论他的麻烦和困难，而这个话题总是让我感到沮丧。他是如此热心，以致于他受到了许多与他思维方式不同的人的冷落和打击，我不喜欢听到对他这个年纪的人如此羞辱，尤其是因为我不认为他是认真的到目前为止有什么好处。他一直告诉我他最近参与的一个非常不愉快的场景。他作为某个传教团体的代表，到离这里四十英里的特兰特里奇附近传教，并以向他在附近某个地方遇到的一个松散的年轻愤世嫉俗者进行劝告为己任——他是那条路某个地主的儿子。 ——他的母亲患有失明症。我父亲直截了当地对那位先生讲话，引起了一阵骚动。我必须说，我父亲在可能性如此明显、毫无用处的情况下，强行与一个陌生人交谈，这是非常愚蠢的。但无论他认为什么是他的职责，他都会做，无论是季节还是淡季；当然，他树敌很多，不仅是那些绝对恶毒的人，还有那些讨厌被打扰的随和的人。他说他对所发生的事情感到自豪，并且可以间接地做好事；但我希望他现在老了，不要把自己累坏了，而让这些猪任其打滚。

Tess’s look had grown hard and worn, and her ripe mouth tragical; but she no longer showed any tremulousness. Clare’s revived thoughts of his father prevented his noticing her particularly; and so they went on down the white row of liquid rectangles till they had finished and drained them off, when the other maids returned, and took their pails, and Deb came to scald out the leads for the new milk. As Tess withdrew to go afield to the cows he said to her softly—
苔丝的表情变得冷酷而憔悴，她那张成熟的嘴显得悲惨。但她不再表现出任何颤抖。克莱尔重新想起了他的父亲，这让他不再特别注意到她。于是她们继续沿着那排白色的液体长方形走下去，直到喝完并把它们沥干，这时其他女仆回来了，拿走了她们的桶，黛布来烫掉新牛奶的引线。当苔丝退到田野里去养牛时，他轻声对她说：

‘And my question, Tessy?’
“我的问题呢，泰西？”

‘O no—no!’ replied she with grave hopelessness, as one who had heard anew the turmoil of her own past in the allusion to Alec d’Urberville. ‘It CAN’T be!’
“噢，不——不！”她极其绝望地回答道，就像一个在提到亚历克·德伯维尔时再次听到自己过去的混乱的人一样。 “这不可能！”

She went out towards the mead, joining the other milkmaids with a bound, as if trying to make the open air drive away her sad constraint. All the girls drew onward to the spot where the cows were grazing in the farther mead, the bevy advancing with the bold grace of wild animals—the reckless, unchastened motion of women accustomed to unlimited space—in which they abandoned themselves to the air as a swimmer to the wave. It seemed natural enough to him now that Tess was again in sight to choose a mate from unconstrained Nature, and not from the abodes of Art.
她朝蜂蜜酒走去，一蹦一跳地加入了其他挤奶女工的行列，仿佛试图让露天的空气驱散她悲伤的束缚。所有的女孩都朝远处的草地上吃草的奶牛走去，这群牛群以野生动物的大胆优雅的姿态前进——习惯于无限空间的妇女鲁莽、不拘一格的动作——她们把自己抛在空中，就像一个向海浪游泳的人。现在，苔丝再次出现在他看来，从不受约束的自然而不是从艺术的居所中选择伴侣是很自然的。

XXVIII
第二十八

Her refusal, though unexpected, did not permanently daunt Clare. His experience of women was great enough for him to be aware that the negative often meant nothing more than the preface to the affirmative; and it was little enough for him not to know that in the manner of the present negative there lay a great exception to the dallyings of coyness. That she had already permitted him to make love to her he read as an additional assurance, not fully trowing that in the fields and pastures to ‘sigh gratis’ is by no means deemed waste; love-making being here more often accepted inconsiderately and for its own sweet sake than in the carking, anxious homes of the ambitious, where a girl’s craving for an establishment paralyzes her healthy thought of a passion as an end.
她的拒绝虽然出乎意料，但并没有永远吓倒克莱尔。他对女性的丰富经验足以让他意识到，负面的东西往往只不过是正面的序言而已。他还不足以不知道，就目前的消极情况而言，腼腆的磨蹭有一个很大的例外。她已经允许他与她做爱，他将其视为一种额外的保证，而不是完全把在田野和牧场上“无偿叹息”视为浪费;与在雄心勃勃、焦虑不安的家庭相比，这里的做爱更容易被不考虑地接受，因为做爱本身就是甜蜜的，在那里，女孩对建立的渴望麻痹了她以激情为目的的健康思想。

‘Tess, why did you say ‘no’ in such a positive way?’ he asked her in the course of a few days.
“苔丝，你为什么以如此积极的方式说‘不’？”几天后他问她。

She started.
她开始。

‘Don’t ask me. I told you why—partly. I am not good enough—not worthy enough.’
‘别问我。我已经告诉过你原因了——部分原因。我不够好——不够值得。

‘How? Not fine lady enough?’
'如何？不够漂亮的女士吗？

‘Yes—something like that,’ murmured she. ‘Your friends would scorn me.’
“是的——类似这样的事，”她低声说道。 “你的朋友会蔑视我。”

‘Indeed, you mistake them—my father and mother. As for my brothers, I don’t care—‘ He clasped his fingers behind her back to keep her from slipping away. ‘Now—you did not mean it, sweet?—I am sure you did not! You have made me so restless that I cannot read, or play, or do anything. I am in no hurry, Tess, but I want to know—to hear from your own warm lips—that you will some day be mine—any time you may choose; but some day?’
“确实，你误会了他们——我的父亲和母亲。至于我的兄弟们，我不在乎——”他在背后扣住手指，不让她溜走。 “现在——你不是故意的，亲爱的？——我相信你不是故意的！”你让我如此焦躁不安，以至于我无法读书，无法玩耍，也无法做任何事情。我并不着急，苔丝，但我想知道——从你温暖的嘴唇里听到——有一天你会成为我的——无论你选择什么时间；但有一天呢？

She could only shake her head and look away from him.
她只能摇摇头，把目光从他身上移开。

Clare regarded her attentively, conned the characters of her face as if they had been hieroglyphics. The denial seemed real.
克莱尔聚精会神地看着她，把她脸上的表情当作象形文字一样。这种否认似乎是真实的。

‘Then I ought not to hold you in this way—ought I? I have no right to you—no right to seek out where you are, or walk with you! Honestly, Tess, do you love any other man?’
“那我不应该这样抱着你——不是吗？我对你没有权利——没有权利寻找你在哪里，或者和你一起走！老实说，苔丝，你还爱其他男人吗？

‘How can you ask?’ she said, with continued self-suppression.
“你怎么能问呢？”她继续自我压抑地说。

‘I almost know that you do not. But then, why do you repulse me?’
“我几乎知道你不知道。但是，你为什么拒绝我呢？

‘I don’t repulse you. I like you to—tell me you love me; and you may always tell me so as you go about with me—and never offend me.’
‘我不排斥你。我喜欢你——告诉我你爱我；当你和我一起去的时候，你可以总是这样告诉我——并且永远不要冒犯我。

‘But you will not accept me as a husband?’
“但是你不接受我这个丈夫吗？”

‘Ah—that’s different—it is for your good, indeed, my dearest! O, believe me, it is only for your sake! I don’t like to give myself the great happiness o’ promising to be yours in that way—because—because I am SURE I ought not to do it.’
‘啊——那不一样——这确实是为了你好，我最亲爱的！哦，相信我，这只是为了你！我不喜欢以这种方式给自己承诺成为你的巨大幸福——因为——因为我确信我不应该这样做。

‘But you will make me happy!’
“但你会让我快乐！”

‘Ah—you think so, but you don’t know!’
“啊——你是这么想的，但你不知道！”

At such times as this, apprehending the grounds of her refusal to be her modest sense of incompetence in matters social and polite, he would say that she was wonderfully well-informed and versatile—which was certainly true, her natural quickness and her admiration for him having led her to pick up his vocabulary, his accent, and fragments of his knowledge, to a surprising extent. After these tender contests and her victory she would go away by herself under the remotest cow, if at milking-time, or into the sedge or into her room, if at a leisure interval, and mourn silently, not a minute after an apparently phlegmatic negative.
在这种时候，他理解她拒绝的理由是她在社交和礼貌方面的谦虚无能，他会说她非常消息灵通，多才多艺——这当然是真的，她天生的敏捷和她对人的钦佩。他引导她学会了他的词汇、他的口音和他的知识片段，程度令人惊讶。在这些温柔的比赛和胜利之后，如果是在挤奶时间，她会独自走到最远的奶牛下面，如果是在闲暇时间，她会独自走入莎草或她的房间，默默地哀悼，在一场明显冷漠的比赛后不到一分钟。消极的。

The struggle was so fearful; her own heart was so strongly on the side of his—two ardent hearts against one poor little conscience— that she tried to fortify her resolution by every means in her power. She had come to Talbothays with a made-up mind. On no account could she agree to a step which might afterwards cause bitter rueing to her husband for his blindness in wedding her. And she held that what her conscience had decided for her when her mind was unbiassed ought not to be overruled now.
斗争是如此可怕；她自己的心如此强烈地站在他一边——两颗热心对抗着一颗可怜的小良心——以至于她想尽一切办法来强化自己的决心。她来到塔尔博塞斯是下了决心的。她决不能同意这一步骤，因为这可能会导致她丈夫因盲目地与她结婚而感到痛苦的悔恨。她认为，当她的思想没有偏见时，她的良心为她做出的决定现在不应该被推翻。

‘Why don’t somebody tell him all about me?’ she said. ‘It was only forty miles off—why hasn’t it reached here? Somebody must know!’
“为什么不有人告诉他关于我的一切呢？”她说。 “距离只有四十英里——为什么还没有到达这里？一定有人知道！

Yet nobody seemed to know; nobody told him.
然而似乎没有人知道；没有人告诉他。

For two or three days no more was said. She guessed from the sad countenances of her chamber companions that they regarded her not only as the favourite, but as the chosen; but they could see for themselves that she did not put herself in his way.
两三天没有再说什么。她从室友们悲伤的表情中猜出，他们不仅把她视为最爱，而且把她视为被选中的人。但他们亲眼看到，她并没有妨碍他。

Tess had never before known a time in which the thread of her life was so distinctly twisted of two strands, positive pleasure and positive pain. At the next cheese-making the pair were again left alone together. The dairyman himself had been lending a hand; but Mr Crick, as well as his wife, seemed latterly to have acquired a suspicion of mutual interest between these two; though they walked so circumspectly that suspicion was but of the faintest. Anyhow, the dairyman left them to themselves.
苔丝以前从未经历过这样的时刻，她的生命之线如此明显地由两股绞合在一起：积极的快乐和积极的痛苦。在下一次制作奶酪时，两人再次单独在一起。奶牛场老板本人一直在伸出援手。但克里克先生和他的妻子最近似乎对两人之间存在共同利益产生了怀疑。尽管他们走得如此小心翼翼，以至于怀疑的程度微乎其微。不管怎样，奶牛场老板把它们留给了他们自己。

They were breaking up the masses of curd before putting them into the vats. The operation resembled the act of crumbling bread on a large scale; and amid the immaculate whiteness of the curds Tess Durbeyfield’s hands showed themselves of the pinkness of the rose. Angel, who was filling the vats with his handful, suddenly ceased, and laid his hands flat upon hers. Her sleeves were rolled far above the elbow, and bending lower he kissed the inside vein of her soft arm.
他们正在将大量凝乳打碎，然后将其放入桶中。这个操作就像大规模地碾碎面包的行为；在洁白的凝乳中，苔丝·德北菲尔德的双手显露出玫瑰的粉红色。安吉尔正用他的一把手把桶装满，突然停了下来，把手平放在她的手上。她的袖子卷到了肘部上方，他弯下腰亲吻了她柔软手臂的内侧静脉。

Although the early September weather was sultry, her arm, from her dabbling in the curds, was as cold and damp to his mouth as a new-gathered mushroom, and tasted of the whey. But she was such a sheaf of susceptibilities that her pulse was accelerated by the touch, her blood driven to her finder-ends, and the cool arms flushed hot. Then, as though her heart had said, ‘Is coyness longer necessary? Truth is truth between man and woman, as between man and man,’ she lifted her eyes and they beamed devotedly into his, as her lip rose in a tender half-smile.
九月初的天气虽然闷热，但她沾着凝乳的手臂，到他嘴里却像新采的蘑菇一样又冷又湿，还有乳清的味道。但她是如此的敏感，以至于她的脉搏因触摸而加速，她的血液被驱赶到她的末端，冰凉的手臂变得滚烫。然后，她的心仿佛在说：“还需要羞涩吗？”男人和女人之间，就像男人和男人之间一样，真理就是真理。”她抬起眼睛，目光虔诚地注视着他的眼睛，她的嘴唇扬起，露出温柔的半微笑。

‘Do you know why I did that, Tess?’ he said.
“你知道我为什么这么做吗，苔丝？”他说。

‘Because you love me very much!’
“因为你很爱我！”

‘Yes, and as a preliminary to a new entreaty.’
“是的，作为新请求的初步。”

‘Not AGAIN!’
“再也不会了！”

She looked a sudden fear that her resistance might break down under her own desire.
她看上去突然害怕自己的抵抗可能会在自己的欲望下崩溃。

‘O, Tessy!’ he went on, ‘I CANNOT think why you are so tantalizing. Why do you disappoint me so? You seem almost like a coquette, upon my life you do—a coquette of the first urban water! They blow hot and blow cold, just as you do, and it is the very last sort of thing to expect to find in a retreat like Talbothays. ... And yet, dearest,’ he quickly added, observing now the remark had cut her, ‘I know you to be the most honest, spotless creature that ever lived. So how can I suppose you a flirt? Tess, why don’t you like the idea of being my wife, if you love me as you seem to do?’
“哦，泰西！”他继续说道，“我想不出你为什么如此诱人。为什么你让我这么失望？你看起来几乎就像一个风骚女郎，在我的生活中你就是这样——一个城市里第一流的风骚女郎！就像你一样，它们忽冷忽热，而在像塔尔博塞斯这样的静修处，这是最不可能出现的事情。 ……然而，最亲爱的，”他很快补充道，现在发现这句话刺痛了她，“我知道你是有史以来最诚实、最一尘不染的生物。那我怎么会认为你在调情呢？苔丝，如果你像你看起来那样爱我，为什么你不喜欢成为我的妻子呢？

‘I have never said I don’t like the idea, and I never could say it; because—it isn’t true!’
“我从来没有说过我不喜欢这个想法，我也永远无法说出来；因为——这不是真的！

The stress now getting beyond endurance, her lip quivered, and she was obliged to go away. Clare was so pained and perplexed that he ran after and caught her in the passage.
现在压力已经超出了她​​的承受能力，她的嘴唇颤抖着，她不得不离开。克莱尔痛苦又困惑，他追了上去，在过道里抓住了她。

‘Tell me, tell me!’ he said, passionately clasping her, in forgetfulness of his curdy hands: ‘do tell me that you won’t belong to anybody but me!’
“告诉我，告诉我！”他说着，热情地拥抱着她，忘记了自己那双凝结的双手：“告诉我，除了我，你不属于任何人！”

‘I will, I will tell you!’ she exclaimed. ‘And I will give you a complete answer, if you will let me go now. I will tell you my experiences—all about myself—all!’
“我会的，我会告诉你！”她喊道。 “如果你现在放我走，我会给你一个完整的答案。”我会告诉你我的经历——全部关于我自己——全部！

‘Your experiences, dear; yes, certainly; any number.’ He expressed assent in loving satire, looking into her face. ‘My Tess, no doubt, almost as many experiences as that wild convolvulus out there on the garden hedge, that opened itself this morning for the first time. Tell me anything, but don’t use that wretched expression any more about not being worthy of me.’
“亲爱的，你的经历；是的，当然了;任何数字。”他看着她的脸，以充满爱意的讽刺表达了同意。 “毫无疑问，我的苔丝的经历几乎和花园树篱上今天早上第一次绽放的野生旋花一样多。告诉我任何事情，但不要再用那种配不上我的可怜表情了。”

‘I will try—not! And I’ll give you my reasons to-morrow—next week.’
“我会尝试——不！明天——下周我就会告诉你我的理由。

‘Say on Sunday?’
“周日吗？”

‘Yes, on Sunday.’
“是的，周日。”

At last she got away, and did not stop in her retreat till she was in the thicket of pollard willows at the lower side of the barton, where she could be quite unseen. Here Tess flung herself down upon the rustling undergrowth of spear-grass, as upon a bed, and remained crouching in palpitating misery broken by momentary shoots of joy, which her fears about the ending could not altogether suppress.
最后她逃走了，一直到巴顿山下的柳树丛中才停下来，在那里她可以完全不被人看见。在这里，苔丝扑倒在沙沙作响的矛草丛中，就像躺在床上一样，仍然蹲着，心悸的痛苦中夹杂着短暂的喜悦，她对结局的恐惧无法完全抑制。

In reality, she was drifting into acquiescence. Every see-saw of her breath, every wave of her blood, every pulse singing in her ears, was a voice that joined with nature in revolt against her scrupulousness. Reckless, inconsiderate acceptance of him; to close with him at the altar, revealing nothing, and chancing discovery; to snatch ripe pleasure before the iron teeth of pain could have time to shut upon her: that was what love counselled; and in almost a terror of ecstasy Tess divined that, despite her many months of lonely self-chastisement, wrestlings, communings, schemes to lead a future of austere isolation, love’s counsel would prevail.
事实上，她已经逐渐默许了。她呼吸的每一次拉锯，血液的每一次波动，她耳边的每一次脉搏，都是一种与自然结合的声音，反抗她的谨慎。鲁莽、不体贴地接受他；在祭坛上与他接近，不透露任何内容，并有机会发现；在痛苦的铁牙有时间向她关闭之前，抓住成熟的快乐：这就是爱情的建议；苔丝几乎在狂喜的恐惧中预见到，尽管她经历了许多个月的孤独自我惩罚、摔跤、交流、计划过一个严峻孤立的未来，但爱的劝告将会占上风。

The afternoon advanced, and still she remained among the willows. She heard the rattle of taking down the pails from the forked stands; the ‘waow-waow!’ which accompanied the getting together of the cows. But she did not go to the milking. They would see her agitation; and the dairyman, thinking the cause to be love alone, would good-naturedly tease her; and that harassment could not be borne.
下午已经过去了，她仍然留在柳树丛中。她听到从叉形架上取下桶的嘎嘎声；伴随着奶牛聚集在一起的“哇哇哇！”。但她没有去挤奶。他们会看到她的激动；奶牛场老板认为这只是出于爱，所以会善意地取笑她。这种骚扰是无法忍受的。

Her lover must have guessed her overwrought state, and invented some excuse for her non-appearance, for no inquiries were made or calls given. At half-past six the sun settled down upon the levels with the aspect of a great forge in the heavens; and presently a monstrous pumpkin-like moon arose on the other hand. The pollard willows, tortured out of their natural shape by incessant choppings, became spiny-haired monsters as they stood up against it. She went in and upstairs without a light.
她的情人一定猜到了她过度紧张的状态，并为她的缺席编造了一些借口，因为没有人询问或打电话。六点半，太阳落到了地平线上，看上去就像天空中的一座大熔炉。不久，一轮像南瓜一样的巨大月亮在另一边升起。那些因不断砍伐而变形的柳树，在反抗时变成了毛茸茸的怪物。她进去上楼，没有开灯。

It was now Wednesday. Thursday came, and Angel looked thoughtfully at her from a distance, but intruded in no way upon her. The indoor milkmaids, Marian and the rest, seemed to guess that something definite was afoot, for they did not force any remarks upon her in the bedchamber. Friday passed; Saturday. To-morrow was the day.
现在是星期三。星期四到了，安吉尔远远地若有所思地看着她，但并没有打扰她。室内挤奶女工玛丽安和其他人似乎猜到有什么事情正在发生，因为他们没有在卧室里强迫她发表任何言论。周五过去了；周六。明天就是这一天。

‘I shall give way—I shall say yes—I shall let myself marry him—I cannot help it!’ she jealously panted, with her hot face to the pillow that night, on hearing one of the other girls sigh his name in her sleep. ‘I can’t bear to let anybody have him but me! Yet it is a wrong to him, and may kill him when he knows! O my heart—O—O—O!’
“我要让步——我要答应——我要让自己嫁给他——我无能为力！”那天晚上，当她听到其他一个女孩在她身上叹息着他的名字时，她嫉妒地喘息着，把她滚烫的脸贴在枕头上。睡觉。 ‘除了我之外，我不忍心让任何人拥有他！但这对他来说是错误的，当他知道时可能会杀了他！噢，我的心——噢——噢——噢！

XXIX
二十九

‘Now, who mid ye think I’ve heard news o’ this morning?’ said Dairyman Crick, as he sat down to breakfast next day, with a riddling gaze round upon the munching men and maids. ‘Now, just who mid ye think?’
“现在，你们认为我今天早上听到了谁的消息？”第二天，奶牛场老板克里克坐下来吃早餐时说道，他用一种神秘的目光环顾着咀嚼着的男人和女仆。 “那么，你们认为谁呢？”

One guessed, and another guessed. Mrs Crick did not guess, because she knew already.
有人猜，有人猜。克里克夫人没有猜测，因为她已经知道了。

‘Well,’ said the dairyman, ‘‘tis that slack-twisted ‘hore’s-bird of a feller, Jack Dollop. He’s lately got married to a widow-woman.’
“嗯，”奶牛场老板说，“这是杰克·多洛普那只松散扭曲的‘家禽’。”他最近娶了一位寡妇。

‘Not Jack Dollop? A villain—to think o’ that!’ said a milker.
“不是杰克·多洛普吗？一个恶棍——想一想吧！”一个挤奶工说道。

The name entered quickly into Tess Durbeyfield’s consciousness, for it was the name of the lover who had wronged his sweetheart, and had afterwards been so roughly used by the young woman’s mother in the butter-churn.
这个名字很快就进入了苔丝·德北菲尔德的意识，因为这是那个冤枉了他的心上人的情人的名字，后来又被年轻女子的母亲在黄油搅拌机里粗暴地使用了。

‘And had he married the valiant matron’s daughter, as he promised?’ asked Angel Clare absently, as he turned over the newspaper he was reading at the little table to which he was always banished by Mrs Crick, in her sense of his gentility.
“他有没有像他承诺的那样，娶了那位勇敢的女主人的女儿？”安吉尔·克莱尔一边翻着报纸，一边心不在焉地问。

‘Not he, sir. Never meant to,’ replied the dairyman. ‘As I say, ‘tis a widow-woman, and she had money, it seems—fifty poun’ a year or so; and that was all he was after. They were married in a great hurry; and then she told him that by marrying she had lost her fifty poun’ a year. Just fancy the state o’ my gentleman’s mind at that news! Never such a cat-and-dog life as they’ve been leading ever since! Serves him well beright. But onluckily the poor woman gets the worst o’t.’
“不是他，先生。从来没想过，”奶牛场老板回答道。 “正如我所说，她是一个寡妇，而且她似乎有钱——每年大约五十英镑；”这就是他所追求的一切。他们匆匆结婚了。然后她告诉他，由于结婚，她每年损失了五十英镑。想象一下我的先生听到这个消息后的心情吧！从那时起，他们就再也没有过过这样的猫狗生活了！对他来说很好。但幸运的是，这个可怜的女人得到了最糟糕的结果。

‘Well, the silly body should have told en sooner that the ghost of her first man would trouble him,’ said Mrs Crick.
“好吧，这个愚蠢的身体应该早点告诉她，她的第一个男人的鬼魂会困扰他，”克里克夫人说。

‘Ay, ay,’ responded the dairyman indecisively. ‘Still, you can see exactly how ‘twas. She wanted a home, and didn’t like to run the risk of losing him. Don’t ye think that was something like it, maidens?’
“哎呀，哎呀，”奶牛场老板犹豫不决地回答道。 “不过，你可以清楚地看到事情是怎样的。”她想要一个家，不想冒失去他的风险。姑娘们，你们不觉得是这样吗？

He glanced towards the row of girls.
他看了一眼那一排女孩。

‘She ought to ha’ told him just before they went to church, when he could hardly have backed out,’ exclaimed Marian.
“她应该在去教堂之前告诉他，当时他几乎无法退出，”玛丽安惊呼道。

‘Yes, she ought,’ agreed Izz.
“是的，她应该这样做，”伊兹表示同意。

‘She must have seen what he was after, and should ha’ refused him,’ cried Retty spasmodically.
“她肯定看出了他的目的，应该拒绝他，”雷蒂断断续续地喊道。

‘And what do you say, my dear?’ asked the dairyman of Tess.
“亲爱的，你说呢？”苔丝的奶牛场老板问道。

‘I think she ought—to have told him the true state of things—or else refused him—I don’t know,’ replied Tess, the bread-and-butter choking her.
“我认为她应该——告诉他事情的真相——或者拒绝他——我不知道，”苔丝回答道，面包和黄油让她窒息。

‘Be cust if I’d have done either o’t,’ said Beck Knibbs, a married helper from one of the cottages. ‘All’s fair in love and war. I’d ha’ married en just as she did, and if he’d said two words to me about not telling him beforehand anything whatsomdever about my first chap that I hadn’t chose to tell, I’d ha’ knocked him down wi’ the rolling-pin—a scram little feller like he! Any woman could do it.’
“请放心，如果我愿意的话，”来自其中一间小屋的已婚帮工贝克·尼布斯 (Beck Knibbs) 说道。 ‘爱情和战争都是公平的。我会像她一样结婚，如果他对我说了两句话，不要事先告诉他任何关于我的第一个男人的事情，我没有选择告诉，我会击倒他拿着擀面杖——像他一样滚蛋的小家伙！任何女人都可以做到。

The laughter which followed this sally was supplemented only by a sorry smile, for form’s sake, from Tess. What was comedy to them was tragedy to her; and she could hardly bear their mirth. She soon rose from table, and, with an impression that Clare would soon follow her, went along a little wriggling path, now stepping to one side of the irrigating channels, and now to the other, till she stood by the main stream of the Var. Men had been cutting the water-weeds higher up the river, and masses of them were floating past her—moving islands of green crow-foot, whereon she might almost have ridden; long locks of which weed had lodged against the piles driven to keep the cows from crossing.
苔丝的这番俏皮话之后，除了笑声之外，只是为了形式而抱歉地微笑了一下。对他们来说是喜剧，对她来说却是悲剧。她简直无法忍受他们的笑声。她很快从桌子上站起来，带着克莱尔很快就会跟着她的印象，沿着一条蜿蜒的小路走了下去，一会儿走到灌溉渠道的一边，一会儿走到另一边，直到她站在了河流的主流旁边。变种。人们一直在河上游砍伐水草，大量的水草从她身边漂过——移动的绿色鱼足岛，她几乎可能骑在上面；长长的篦子，上面长满了杂草，堆在堆放的木桩上，以防止奶牛穿过。

Yes, there was the pain of it. This question of a woman telling her story—the heaviest of crosses to herself—seemed but amusement to others. It was as if people should laugh at martyrdom.
是的，确实有痛苦。一个女人讲述她的故事的这个问题——对她自己来说是最沉重的十字架——对其他人来说似乎只是一种乐趣。就好像人们应该嘲笑殉难一样。

‘Tessy!’ came from behind her, and Clare sprang across the gully, alighting beside her feet. ‘My wife—soon!’
“泰西！”从她身后传来，克莱尔跳过沟壑，落在她脚边。 “我的妻子——很快！”

‘No, no; I cannot. For your sake, O Mr Clare; for your sake, I say no!’
'不，不;我不能。为了您的缘故，克莱尔先生；为了你的缘故，我说不！”

‘Tess!’
“苔丝！”

‘Still I say no!’ she repeated.
“我还是说不！”她重复道。

Not expecting this, he had put his arm lightly round her waist the moment after speaking, beneath her hanging tail of hair. (The younger dairymaids, including Tess, breakfasted with their hair loose on Sunday mornings before building it up extra high for attending church, a style they could not adopt when milking with their heads against the cows.) If she had said ‘Yes’ instead of ‘No’ he would have kissed her; it had evidently been his intention; but her determined negative deterred his scrupulous heart. Their condition of domiciliary comradeship put her, as the woman, to such disadvantage by its enforced intercourse, that he felt it unfair to her to exercise any pressure of blandishment which he might have honestly employed had she been better able to avoid him. He released her momentarily-imprisoned waist, and withheld the kiss.
没想到，话音刚落，他就将手臂轻轻搂住了她的腰，藏在了她垂下来的发尾下。 （包括苔丝在内的年轻挤奶女工，周日早上吃早饭时会把头发披散下来，然后把头发盘得特别高，以便去教堂，但她们在挤奶时不能把头靠在奶牛上。） 如果她说“是”，如果说“不”，他就会吻她；这显然是他的意图；但她坚决的否定却让他那颗谨小慎微的心却步了。他们同居的同志关系使她，作为女人，由于被迫发生性关系而处于如此不利的地位，以至于他觉得对她施加任何奉承压力是不公平的，如果她能够更好地避开他，他本可以诚实地使用这些压力。他松开她被暂时禁锢的腰肢，收回了这个吻。

It all turned on that release. What had given her strength to refuse him this time was solely the tale of the widow told by the dairyman; and that would have been overcome in another moment. But Angel said no more; his face was perplexed; he went away.
这一切都始于该版本。这次她之所以有力量拒绝他，完全是因为奶牛场老板讲述的寡妇的故事。这个问题很快就会被克服。但安吉尔没有再说什么；他的表情很困惑。他走了。

Day after day they met—somewhat less constantly than before; and thus two or three weeks went by. The end of September drew near, and she could see in his eye that he might ask her again.
他们日复一日地见面——比以前少了一些。就这样，两三个星期过去了。九月底临近了，她从他的眼神中看出，他可能会再次问她。

His plan of procedure was different now—as though he had made up his mind that her negatives were, after all, only coyness and youth startled by the novelty of the proposal. The fitful evasiveness of her manner when the subject was under discussion countenanced the idea. So he played a more coaxing game; and while never going beyond words, or attempting the renewal of caresses, he did his utmost orally.
现在他的程序计划不同了——仿佛他已经下定决心，她的否定毕竟只是害羞和年轻，被提议的新颖性吓了一跳。当讨论这个话题时，她时断时续的回避态度支持了这个想法。于是他玩了一个更加哄骗的游戏；尽管他从不超越言语，也不尝试重新进行爱抚，但他在口头上尽了最大努力。

In this way Clare persistently wooed her in undertones like that of the purling milk—at the cow’s side, at skimmings, at butter-makings, at cheese-makings, among broody poultry, and among farrowing pigs—as no milkmaid was ever wooed before by such a man.
就这样，克莱尔坚持不懈地用像倒牛奶一样的低声追求她——在奶牛身边，在撇脂时，在制作黄油时，在制作奶酪时，在育雏家禽中，在产仔猪中——以前从未有过挤奶女工被追求过。由这样一个人。

Tess knew that she must break down. Neither a religious sense of a certain moral validity in the previous union nor a conscientious wish for candour could hold out against it much longer. She loved him so passionately, and he was so godlike in her eyes; and being, though untrained, instinctively refined, her nature cried for his tutelary guidance. And thus, though Tess kept repeating to herself, ‘I can never be his wife,’ the words were vain. A proof of her weakness lay in the very utterance of what calm strength would not have taken the trouble to formulate. Every sound of his voice beginning on the old subject stirred her with a terrifying bliss, and she coveted the recantation she feared.
苔丝知道她一定要崩溃了。无论是对先前联盟的某种道德有效性的宗教意识，还是对坦诚的良心愿望，都无法抵抗它更长时间。她如此热烈地爱着他，他在她眼里是那样的神一样；虽然没有受过训练，但她本能地优雅，她的天性渴望他的监护指导。因此，尽管苔丝不断地对自己说：“我永远不可能成为他的妻子。”但这句话是徒劳的。她的软弱的证据就在于她说出的这句话，如果是冷静的力量，是不会不辞辛劳地表达出来的。他的每一个声音从这个老话题开始，都让她感到一种可怕的幸福，她渴望她所害怕的放弃。

His manner was—what man’s is not?—so much that of one who would love and cherish and defend her under any conditions, changes, charges, or revelations, that her gloom lessened as she basked in it. The season meanwhile was drawing onward to the equinox, and though it was still fine, the days were much shorter. The dairy had again worked by morning candlelight for a long time; and a fresh renewal of Clare’s pleading occurred one morning between three and four.
他的态度——男人的态度不是这样的吗？——在任何情况、变化、指控或启示下都会爱、珍惜和捍卫她，以至于当她沉浸在这种态度中时，她的忧郁减轻了。与此同时，季节已临近春分，虽然天气依然晴朗，但白天却短了很多。乳品厂又在早晨的烛光下工作了很长一段时间。一天早上三点到四点之间，克莱尔再次提出了新的恳求。

She had run up in her bedgown to his door to call him as usual; then had gone back to dress and call the others; and in ten minutes was walking to the head of the stairs with the candle in her hand. At the same moment he came down his steps from above in his shirt-sleeves and put his arm across the stairway.
她像往常一样穿着睡衣跑到他门口打电话给他。然后回去穿衣服并给其他人打电话。十分钟后，她手里拿着蜡烛走到了楼梯口。与此同时，他只穿着衬衫，从楼上走下来，把胳膊跨过楼梯。

‘Now, Miss Flirt, before you go down,’ he said peremptorily. ‘It is a fortnight since I spoke, and this won’t do any longer. You MUST tell me what you mean, or I shall have to leave this house. My door was ajar just now, and I saw you. For your own safety I must go. You don’t know. Well? Is it to be yes at last?’
“现在，调情小姐，在你下去之前，”他专横地说。 “我已经有两周没有说过话了，这样下去已经不行了。”你必须告诉我你的意思，否则我将不得不离开这个家。刚才我的门半开着，我看到了你。为了你的安全，我必须走了。你不知道。出色地？最后是肯定的吗？

‘I am only just up, Mr Clare, and it is too early to take me to task!’ she pouted. ‘You need not call me Flirt. ‘Tis cruel and untrue. Wait till by and by. Please wait till by and by! I will really think seriously about it between now and then. Let me go downstairs!’
“克莱尔先生，我才刚刚起床，现在就责怪我还为时过早！”她撅着嘴说道。 “你不必叫我调情。”这是残酷和不真实的。等到一点点。请稍等！从现在到那时我都会认真思考这件事。让我下楼去吧！

She looked a little like what he said she was as, holding the candle sideways, she tried to smile away the seriousness of her words.
她看起来有点像他所说的那样，她侧着蜡烛，试图用微笑来掩饰她话语中的严肃。

‘Call me Angel, then, and not Mr Clare.’
“那就叫我天使吧，而不是克莱尔先生。”

‘Angel.’
'天使。'

‘Angel dearest—why not?’
“亲爱的天使——为什么不呢？”

‘‘Twould mean that I agree, wouldn’t it?’
“这意味着我同意，不是吗？”

‘It would only mean that you love me, even if you cannot marry me; and you were so good as to own that long ago.’
‘这只能说明你爱我，即使你不能嫁给我；你很优秀，很久以前就拥有了它。”

‘Very well, then, ‘Angel dearest’, if I MUST,’ she murmured, looking at her candle, a roguish curl coming upon her mouth, notwithstanding her suspense.
“好吧，那么，‘最亲爱的天使’，如果我必须的话，”她低声说道，看着她的蜡烛，嘴角浮起一抹顽皮的卷发，尽管她心存疑虑。

Clare had resolved never to kiss her until he had obtained her promise; but somehow, as Tess stood there in her prettily tucked-up milking gown, her hair carelessly heaped upon her head till there should be leisure to arrange it when skimming and milking were done, he broke his resolve, and brought his lips to her cheek for one moment. She passed downstairs very quickly, never looking back at him or saying another word. The other maids were already down, and the subject was not pursued. Except Marian, they all looked wistfully and suspiciously at the pair, in the sad yellow rays which the morning candles emitted in contrast with the first cold signals of the dawn without.
克莱尔决定在得到她的承诺之前决不吻她。但不知何故，当苔丝站在那里，穿着漂亮地卷起来的挤奶袍，头发漫不经心地堆在头上，直到撇脂和挤奶结束后才有时间整理头发时，他打破了自己的决心，把嘴唇贴在了她的脸颊上。一会儿。她很快就下了楼，没有回头看他，也没有再说一句话。其他丫鬟都已经下去了，也就没有再追问下去。除了玛丽安之外，他们都满怀渴望和怀疑地看着这一对，清晨的蜡烛发出悲伤的黄色光芒，与黎明时分的第一道寒冷的信号形成鲜明对比。

When skimming was done—which, as the milk diminished with the approach of autumn, was a lessening process day by day—Retty and the rest went out. The lovers followed them.
撇油结束后——随着秋天的临近，牛奶的数量也在减少，这是一个日益减少的过程——雷蒂和其他人出去了。恋人们跟着他们。

‘Our tremulous lives are so different from theirs, are they not?’ he musingly observed to her, as he regarded the three figures tripping before him through the frigid pallor of opening day.
“我们颤抖的生活与他们的生活截然不同，不是吗？”他若有所思地对她说，同时他看着在开幕日的寒冷苍白中在他面前绊倒的三个人影。

‘Not so very different, I think,’ she said.
“我认为并没有太大不同，”她说。

‘Why do you think that?’
'为什么你这么想？'

‘There are very few women’s lives that are not—tremulous,’ Tess replied, pausing over the new word as if it impressed her. ‘There’s more in those three than you think.’
“很少有女人的生活不是——颤抖的，”苔丝回答道，在这个新词上停了下来，好像这给她留下了深刻的印象。 “这三个人比你想象的要多。”

‘What is in them?’
“里面有什么？”

‘Almost either of ‘em,’ she began, ‘would make—perhaps would make—a properer wife than I. And perhaps they love you as well as I—almost.’
“他们中的几乎任何一个，”她开始说，“都会成为——也许会成为——比我更合适的妻子。也许他们和我一样爱你——几乎。”

‘O, Tessy!’
“噢，泰西！”

There were signs that it was an exquisite relief to her to hear the impatient exclamation, though she had resolved so intrepidly to let generosity make one bid against herself. That was now done, and she had not the power to attempt self-immolation a second time then. They were joined by a milker from one of the cottages, and no more was said on that which concerned them so deeply. But Tess knew that this day would decide it.
有迹象表明，听到这声不耐烦的惊呼对她来说是一种极大的解脱，尽管她已经勇敢地决定让慷慨对自己做出一个竞价。现在事情已经过去了，她已经没有能力再尝试自焚了。其中一间小屋里的一名挤奶工加入了他们，但没有再谈论他们深感关心的事情。但苔丝知道这一天将会决定一切。

In the afternoon several of the dairyman’s household and assistants went down to the meads as usual, a long way from the dairy, where many of the cows were milked without being driven home. The supply was getting less as the animals advanced in calf, and the supernumerary milkers of the lush green season had been dismissed.
下午，奶牛场老板的几位家人和助手像往常一样去了距离奶牛场很远的牧场，那里的许多奶牛在没有被赶回家的情况下就被挤奶了。随着牛犊数量的增加，供应量越来越少，郁郁葱葱的季节里多余的挤奶工也被解雇了。

The work progressed leisurely. Each pailful was poured into tall cans that stood in a large spring-waggon which had been brought upon the scene; and when they were milked, the cows trailed away. Dairyman Crick, who was there with the rest, his wrapper gleaming miraculously white against a leaden evening sky, suddenly looked at his heavy watch.
工作进展得很顺利。每一桶都被倒入高罐中，罐子放在一辆运到现场的大货车上。挤完奶后，奶牛就渐渐远去。奶牛场老板克里克和其他人都在场，他的包装纸在昏暗的夜空下奇迹般地闪闪发光，突然看着他沉重的手表。

‘Why, ‘tis later than I thought,’ he said. ‘Begad! We shan’t be soon enough with this milk at the station, if we don’t mind. There’s no time to-day to take it home and mix it with the bulk afore sending off. It must go to station straight from here. Who’ll drive it across?’
“哎呀，比我想象的要晚，”他说。 '拜加德！如果我们不介意的话，我们不会很快就把这些牛奶送到车站的。今天没有时间把它带回家并在发送前与散装混合。必须从这里直接去车站。谁来开车过去？

Mr Clare volunteered to do so, though it was none of his business, asking Tess to accompany him. The evening, though sunless, had been warm and muggy for the season, and Tess had come out with her milking-hood only, naked-armed and jacketless; certainly not dressed for a drive. She therefore replied by glancing over her scant habiliments; but Clare gently urged her. She assented by relinquishing her pail and stool to the dairyman to take home, and mounted the spring-waggon beside Clare.
克莱尔先生自愿这样做，尽管这不关他的事，并要求苔丝陪他一起去。晚上虽然没有阳光，但对于这个季节来说却是温暖而闷热，苔丝只带着她的挤奶罩，赤裸着手臂，没有穿夹克。当然不是开车时穿的衣服。因此，她回答说，扫了一眼自己那件单薄的衣服。但克莱尔温柔地催促她。她同意了，把水桶和凳子交给奶牛场老板带回家，然后在克莱尔旁边登上了春车。

XXX

In the diminishing daylight they went along the level roadway through the meads, which stretched away into gray miles, and were backed in the extreme edge of distance by the swarthy and abrupt slopes of Egdon Heath. On its summit stood clumps and stretches of fir-trees, whose notched tips appeared like battlemented towers crowning black-fronted castles of enchantment.
日光逐渐暗淡，他们沿着平坦的道路穿过草地，草地绵延数英里，远处的边缘是埃格登荒原漆黑陡峭的山坡。山顶上矗立着一丛丛、一望无际的冷杉树，它们的锯齿尖看起来像城垛塔，覆盖着黑色正面的迷人城堡。

They were so absorbed in the sense of being close to each other that they did not begin talking for a long while, the silence being broken only by the clucking of the milk in the tall cans behind them. The lane they followed was so solitary that the hazel nuts had remained on the boughs till they slipped from their shells, and the blackberries hung in heavy clusters. Every now and then Angel would fling the lash of his whip round one of these, pluck it off, and give it to his companion.
他们沉浸在彼此亲近的感觉中，很长一段时间都没有开始说话，只有身后高罐里牛奶的咯咯声打破了沉默。他们所走的小路是如此孤独，以至于榛子一直留在树枝上，直到它们从壳里滑落，而黑莓则挂着沉重的一簇簇。安吉尔时不时地用鞭子抽打其中一个，把它拔下来，交给他的同伴。

The dull sky soon began to tell its meaning by sending down herald-drops of rain, and the stagnant air of the day changed into a fitful breeze which played about their faces. The quick-silvery glaze on the rivers and pools vanished; from broad mirrors of light they changed to lustreless sheets of lead, with a surface like a rasp. But that spectacle did not affect her preoccupation. Her countenance, a natural carnation slightly embrowned by the season, had deepened its tinge with the beating of the rain-drops; and her hair, which the pressure of the cows’ flanks had, as usual, caused to tumble down from its fastenings and stray beyond the curtain of her calico bonnet, was made clammy by the moisture, till it hardly was better than seaweed.
阴沉的天空很快开始降下雨滴，宣告了它的意义，白天凝滞的空气变成了阵阵微风，拂过他们的脸庞。河流和池塘上的银色釉面消失了；它们从宽阔的光镜变成了表面像锉刀一样无光泽的铅片。但这景象并没有影响她的全神贯注。她的脸像一朵天然的康乃馨，因季节的影响而略显泛红，但随着雨滴的敲打，颜色加深了。她的头发像往常一样，因牛侧腹的压力而从发扣上掉落下来，散落在印花布帽子的帘子外面，头发被湿气弄得湿漉漉的，几乎不比海​​藻好。

‘I ought not to have come, I suppose,’ she murmured, looking at the sky.
“我想我不应该来，”她看着天空低声说道。

‘I am sorry for the rain,’ said he. ‘But how glad I am to have you here!’
“我很抱歉下雨了，”他说。 “但是我很高兴你在这里！”

Remote Egdon disappeared by degree behind the liquid gauze. The evening grew darker, and the roads being crossed by gates, it was not safe to drive faster than at a walking pace. The air was rather chill.
遥远的埃格登逐渐消失在液体纱布后面。夜色渐深，道路上都设有大门，开车比步行速度更快并不安全。空气颇为寒冷。

‘I am so afraid you will get cold, with nothing upon your arms and shoulders,’ he said. ‘Creep close to me, and perhaps the drizzle won’t hurt you much. I should be sorrier still if I did not think that the rain might be helping me.’
“我很担心你的手臂和肩膀上没有任何东西，会感到寒冷，”他说。 ‘悄悄靠近我，也许细雨不会对你造成太大伤害。如果我不认为雨可能对我有帮助，我会更难过。

She imperceptibly crept closer, and he wrapped round them both a large piece of sail-cloth, which was sometimes used to keep the sun off the milk-cans. Tess held it from slipping off him as well as herself, Clare’s hands being occupied.
她不知不觉地蹑手蹑脚地靠近了，他用一大块帆布裹住他们俩，有时用它来遮挡牛奶罐上的阳光。苔丝阻止它从他身上滑落，克莱尔的双手被占据。

‘Now we are all right again. Ah—no we are not! It runs down into my neck a little, and it must still more into yours. That’s better. Your arms are like wet marble, Tess. Wipe them in the cloth. Now, if you stay quiet, you will not get another drop. Well, dear—about that question of mine—that long-standing question?’
‘现在我们又好了。啊——不，我们不是！它有一点流进了我的脖子，而且一定更流进了你的脖子。这样更好。苔丝，你的手臂就像湿漉漉的大理石。用布擦拭它们。现在，如果你保持安静，你就不会再得到一滴水了。好吧，亲爱的——关于我的那个问题——那个长期存在的问题？

The only reply that he could hear for a little while was the smack of the horse’s hoofs on the moistening road, and the cluck of the milk in the cans behind them.
一会儿他能听到的唯一回应就是马蹄踏在潮湿的道路上的声音，以及身后罐头里牛​​奶的咯咯声。

‘Do you remember what you said?’
“你还记得你说的话吗？”

‘I do,’ she replied.
“我愿意，”她回答道。

‘Before we get home, mind.’
“注意，在我们回家之前。”

‘I’ll try.’
'我会尽力。'

He said no more then. As they drove on, the fragment of an old manor house of Caroline date rose against the sky, and was in due course passed and left behind.
然后他就不再说话了。当他们继续前行时，卡洛琳·戴德的一座古老庄园的残骸升入天空，并在适当的时候被抛在身后。

‘That,’ he observed, to entertain her, ‘is an interesting old place—one of the several seats which belonged to an ancient Norman family formerly of great influence in this county, the d’Urbervilles. I never pass one of their residences without thinking of them. There is something very sad in the extinction of a family of renown, even if it was fierce, domineering, feudal renown.’
为了招待她，他说道，“这是一个有趣的老地方——属于一个古老的诺曼家族德伯维尔家族的几个席位之一，这个家族以前在这个县有很大的影响力。我每次经过他们的住所都会想起他们。一个名门望族的灭亡，即使是凶猛、霸道、封建的名声，也是令人悲伤的。”

‘Yes,’ said Tess.
“是的，”苔丝说。

They crept along towards a point in the expanse of shade just at hand at which a feeble light was beginning to assert its presence, a spot where, by day, a fitful white streak of steam at intervals upon the dark green background denoted intermittent moments of contact between their secluded world and modern life. Modern life stretched out its steam feeler to this point three or four times a day, touched the native existences, and quickly withdrew its feeler again, as if what it touched had been uncongenial.
他们蹑手蹑脚地朝近在咫尺的一片阴影中的一个点走去，那里有微弱的光芒开始显现出来，白天，在这个地方，深绿色的背景上每隔一段时间就会出现一条断断续续的白色蒸汽，标志着间歇性的时刻。他们的隐世世界与现代生活之间的接触。现代生命一天三四次将蒸汽触角伸出至此，触碰本土存在，又迅速缩回触角，仿佛触碰的东西并不合适。

They reached the feeble light, which came from the smoky lamp of a little railway station; a poor enough terrestrial star, yet in one sense of more importance to Talbothays Dairy and mankind than the celestial ones to which it stood in such humiliating contrast. The cans of new milk were unladen in the rain, Tess getting a little shelter from a neighbouring holly tree.
他们走到了微弱的灯光前，那灯光是从一个小火车站的烟雾灯发出的。它是一颗足够可怜的类地恒星，但从某种意义上说，它对塔尔博塞斯乳品公司和人类来说比与之形成如此耻辱对比的天体恒星更重要。新牛奶罐在雨中被卸下来，苔丝在附近的冬青树下找到了一个小小的庇护所。

Then there was the hissing of a train, which drew up almost silently upon the wet rails, and the milk was rapidly swung can by can into the truck. The light of the engine flashed for a second upon Tess Durbeyfield’s figure, motionless under the great holly tree. No object could have looked more foreign to the gleaming cranks and wheels than this unsophisticated girl, with the round bare arms, the rainy face and hair, the suspended attitude of a friendly leopard at pause, the print gown of no date or fashion, and the cotton bonnet drooping on her brow.
然后，火车发出嘶嘶声，几乎无声无息地停在湿漉漉的铁轨上，牛奶迅速地一罐又一罐地装进了卡车。发动机的光芒在苔丝·德北菲尔德的身影上闪了一会儿，她一动不动地站在大冬青树下。对于闪闪发光的曲柄和轮子来说，没有什么比这个朴实无华的女孩更陌生的了，她有圆圆的裸露手臂，雨天的脸和头发，友好的豹子停顿​​时的悬浮姿势，没有日期或时尚的印花礼服，以及棉质帽子垂在额头上。

She mounted again beside her lover, with a mute obedience characteristic of impassioned natures at times, and when they had wrapped themselves up over head and ears in the sailcloth again, they plunged back into the now thick night. Tess was so receptive that the few minutes of contact with the whirl of material progress lingered in her thought.
她再次骑上爱人身边，带着一种有时充满激情的天性所特有的沉默服从，当他们再次用帆布包裹住自己的头和耳朵时，他们又陷入了现在厚重的夜色中。苔丝是如此善于接受，以至于与物质进步的旋涡接触的几分钟在她的脑海中挥之不去。

‘Londoners will drink it at their breakfasts to-morrow, won’t they?’ she asked. ‘Strange people that we have never seen.’
“伦敦人明天早餐时会喝它，不是吗？”她问道。 “我们从未见过的奇怪的人。”

‘Yes—I suppose they will. Though not as we send it. When its strength has been lowered, so that it may not get up into their heads.’
“是的——我想他们会的。虽然不是我们发送的那样。当它的力量被降低时，这样它就不会进入他们的头脑。

‘Noble men and noble women, ambassadors and centurions, ladies and tradeswomen, and babies who have never seen a cow.’
“贵族男人和贵族女人，大使和百夫长，女士和女商人，以及从未见过牛的婴儿。”

‘Well, yes; perhaps; particularly centurions.’
'嗯，是;也许;尤其是百夫长。”

‘Who don’t know anything of us, and where it comes from; or think how we two drove miles across the moor to-night in the rain that it might reach ‘em in time?’
‘谁对我们一无所知，也不知道它从何而来；或者想想今晚我们两个如何在雨中驱车数英里穿越荒野，以便它能及时到达“他们”？

‘We did not drive entirely on account of these precious Londoners; we drove a little on our own—on account of that anxious matter which you will, I am sure, set at rest, dear Tess. Now, permit me to put it in this way. You belong to me already, you know; your heart, I mean. Does it not?’
“我们开车并不完全是为了这些珍贵的伦敦人；我们独自开车了一点——因为我相信你会解决那件令人焦虑的事情，亲爱的苔丝。现在，请允许我这样说。你已经属于我了，你知道；我是说，你的心。不是吗？

‘You know as well as I. O yes—yes!’
“你和我一样清楚。哦，是的——是的！”

‘Then, if your heart does, why not your hand?’
“那么，如果你的心愿意，为什么你的手不行呢？”

‘My only reason was on account of you—on account of a question. I have something to tell you—‘
“我唯一的理由是因为你——因为一个问题。我有件事要告诉你-'

‘But suppose it to be entirely for my happiness, and my worldly convenience also?’
“但如果这完全是为了我的幸福，以及我世俗的便利呢？”

‘O yes; if it is for your happiness and worldly convenience. But my life before I came here—I want—‘
'哦是啊;如果是为了你的幸福和世俗的方便。但我来这里之前的生活——我想要——”

‘Well, it is for my convenience as well as my happiness. If I have a very large farm, either English or colonial, you will be invaluable as a wife to me; better than a woman out of the largest mansion in the country. So please—please, dear Tessy, disabuse your mind of the feeling that you will stand in my way.’
‘好吧，这是为了我的方便，也是为了我的幸福。如果我有一个很大的农场，无论是英国农场还是殖民地农场，你作为我的妻子将是无价的；比这个国家最大的豪宅里的女人还要好。所以请——亲爱的泰西，请打消你的想法，因为你会挡住我的路。”

‘But my history. I want you to know it—you must let me tell you—you will not like me so well!’
“但是我的历史。我想让你知道——你必须让我告诉你——你不会那么喜欢我！

‘Tell it if you wish to, dearest. This precious history then. Yes, I was born at so and so, Anno Domini—‘
“如果你愿意的话就告诉吧，亲爱的。那么这段珍贵的历史。是的，我出生在某某，安诺·多米尼——”

‘I was born at Marlott,’ she said, catching at his words as a help, lightly as they were spoken. ‘And I grew up there. And I was in the Sixth Standard when I left school, and they said I had great aptness, and should make a good teacher, so it was settled that I should be one. But there was trouble in my family; father was not very industrious, and he drank a little.’
“我出生在马洛特，”她说，听他的话是为了帮忙，语气很轻。 “我在那里长大。当我离开学校时，我正在读六年级，他们说我很聪明，应该成为一名好老师，所以就决定我应该成为一名老师。但我的家庭遇到了麻烦；父亲不太勤劳，喝了一点酒。

‘Yes, yes. Poor child! Nothing new.’ He pressed her more closely to his side.
'是的是的。可怜的孩子！没什么新鲜事。”他把她更紧地贴在自己身边。

‘And then—there is something very unusual about it—about me. I—I was—‘
“然后——关于我，有一些非常不寻常的事情。我——我是——”

Tess’s breath quickened.
苔丝的呼吸变得急促起来。

‘Yes, dearest. Never mind.’
‘是的，亲爱的。没关系。'

‘I—I—am not a Durbeyfield, but a d’Urberville—a descendant of the same family as those that owned the old house we passed. And—we are all gone to nothing!’
“我——我——不是德北家的人，而是德伯维尔家的人——和我们路过的那栋老房子的主人是同一家族的后裔。而且——我们都一事无成了！

‘A d’Urberville!—Indeed! And is that all the trouble, dear Tess?’
“德伯维尔！——确实如此！亲爱的苔丝，这就是所有的麻烦吗？

‘Yes,’ she answered faintly.
“是的，”她微弱地回答。

‘Well—why should I love you less after knowing this?’
“好吧——为什么我知道这些之后会少爱你一点呢？”

‘I was told by the dairyman that you hated old families.’
“奶牛场老板告诉我，你讨厌古老的家庭。”

He laughed.
他笑了。

‘Well, it is true, in one sense. I do hate the aristocratic principle of blood before everything, and do think that as reasoners the only pedigrees we ought to respect are those spiritual ones of the wise and virtuous, without regard to corporal paternity. But I am extremely interested in this news—you can have no idea how interested I am! Are you not interested yourself in being one of that well-known line?’
“嗯，从某种意义上说，这是真的。我确实讨厌血统高于一切的贵族原则，并且确实认为，作为推理者，我们唯一应该尊重的血统是那些明智和有道德的精神血统，而不考虑肉体的父系。但我对这个新闻非常感兴趣——你不可能知道我有多感兴趣！你对成为那个知名品牌中的一员不感兴趣吗？

‘No. I have thought it sad—especially since coming here, and knowing that many of the hills and fields I see once belonged to my father’s people. But other hills and field belonged to Retty’s people, and perhaps others to Marian’s, so that I don’t value it particularly.’
'不。我觉得这很悲伤——尤其是自从来到这里，知道我看到的许多山丘和田野曾经属于我父亲的人民。但其他山丘和田野属于雷蒂的人，也许还有一些属于玛丽安的人，所以我并不特别重视它们。

‘Yes—it is surprising how many of the present tillers of the soil were once owners of it, and I sometimes wonder that a certain school of politicians don’t make capital of the circumstance; but they don’t seem to know it... I wonder that I did not see the resemblance of your name to d’Urberville, and trace the manifest corruption. And this was the carking secret!’
“是的——令人惊讶的是，现在有多少耕耘者曾经是这片土地的所有者，我有时想知道某些政客流派不会利用这种情况；但他们似乎不知道这一点……我想知道我没有看到你的名字与德伯维尔的相似之处，并追踪明显的腐败。这就是停车的秘密！

She had not told. At the last moment her courage had failed her; she feared his blame for not telling him sooner; and her instinct of self-preservation was stronger than her candour.
她没有告诉。在最后一刻，她失去了勇气。她担心他会因为没有早点告诉他而受到责备。她的自我保护本能比她的坦率更强烈。

‘Of course,’ continued the unwitting Clare, ‘I should have been glad to know you to be descended exclusively from the long-suffering, dumb, unrecorded rank and file of the English nation, and not from the self-seeking few who made themselves powerful at the expense of the rest. But I am corrupted away from that by my affection for you, Tess (he laughed as he spoke), and made selfish likewise. For your own sake I rejoice in your descent. Society is hopelessly snobbish, and this fact of your extraction may make an appreciable difference to its acceptance of you as my wife, after I have made you the well-read woman that I mean to make you. My mother too, poor soul, will think so much better of you on account of it. Tess, you must spell your name correctly—d’Urberville—from this very day.’
“当然，”不知情的克莱尔继续说道，“我应该很高兴知道你完全出身于英国民族长期受苦、愚昧、没有记录的普通民众，而不是出身于那些自私自利的少数人。他们自己的强大是以牺牲其他人为代价的。但苔丝（他一边说一边大笑），我对你的感情已经腐蚀了我，也变得自私了。为了你的缘故，我为你的血统感到高兴。社会是无可救药的势利，在我让你成为我想要让你成为的博学的女人之后，你的出身这一事实可能会对它接受你作为我的妻子产生明显的影响。我的母亲，可怜的灵魂，也会因此而对你产生好感。苔丝，从今天起，你必须正确拼写你的名字——德伯维尔。

‘I like the other way rather best.’
“我最喜欢另一种方式。”

‘But you MUST, dearest! Good heavens, why dozens of mushroom millionaires would jump at such a possession! By the bye, there’s one of that kidney who has taken the name—where have I heard of him?—Up in the neighbourhood of The Chase, I think. Why, he is the very man who had that rumpus with my father I told you of. What an odd coincidence!’
“但是你必须这样做，亲爱的！天啊，为什么几十个蘑菇百万富翁会为这样的财产而欢呼雀跃！顺便说一句，那个肾脏中有一个人取了这个名字——我在哪里听说过他？——我想是在蔡斯附近。哎呀，他就是我告诉过你的那个和我父亲吵架的人。多么奇怪的巧合啊！

‘Angel, I think I would rather not take the name! It is unlucky, perhaps!’
‘天使，我想我宁愿不取这个名字！也许这很不幸！”

She was agitated.
她很激动。

‘Now then, Mistress Teresa d’Urberville, I have you. Take my name, and so you will escape yours! The secret is out, so why should you any longer refuse me?’
“那么，特蕾莎·德伯维尔女士，我有你了。”记下我的名字，你就能逃脱你的名字！秘密已经泄露了，你为什么还要拒绝我呢？

‘If it is SURE to make you happy to have me as your wife, and you feel that you do wish to marry me, VERY, VERY much—‘
“如果我做你的妻子确实让你高兴，并且你觉得你确实想嫁给我，那么非常非常——”

‘I do, dearest, of course!’
“我当然愿意，亲爱的！”

‘I mean, that it is only your wanting me very much, and being hardly able to keep alive without me, whatever my offences, that would make me feel I ought to say I will.’
“我的意思是，只有你非常想要我，没有我就几乎无法生存，无论我犯了什么罪，才会让我觉得我应该说我会的。”

‘You will—you do say it, I know! You will be mine for ever and ever.’
“你会的——你确实会这么说，我知道！你将永远属于我。

He clasped her close and kissed her.
他紧紧地抱住她，吻了她。

‘Yes!’
'是的！'

She had no sooner said it than she burst into a dry hard sobbing, so violent that it seemed to rend her. Tess was not a hysterical girl by any means, and he was surprised.
她话音刚落，就突然抽泣起来，声音如此剧烈，似乎要把她撕裂。苔丝无论如何都不是一个歇斯底里的女孩，这让他很惊讶。

‘Why do you cry, dearest?’
“亲爱的，你为什么哭？”

‘I can’t tell—quite!—I am so glad to think—of being yours, and making you happy!’
“我说不出来——完全说不出来！——我很高兴想到——成为你的人，让你快乐！”

‘But this does not seem very much like gladness, my Tessy!’
“但这看起来不太像高兴，我的泰西！”

‘I mean—I cry because I have broken down in my vow! I said I would die unmarried!’
‘我的意思是——我哭是因为我违背了我的誓言！我说过我会未婚而死！”

‘But, if you love me you would like me to be your husband?’
“但是，如果你爱我，你会希望我成为你的丈夫吗？”

‘Yes, yes, yes! But O, I sometimes wish I had never been born!’
'对对对！但是哦，有时我希望我从未出生过！

‘Now, my dear Tess, if I did not know that you are very much excited, and very inexperienced, I should say that remark was not very complimentary. How came you to wish that if you care for me? Do you care for me? I wish you would prove it in some way.’
“现在，我亲爱的苔丝，如果我不知道你非常兴奋，而且非常缺乏经验，我应该说这句话不是很恭维。如果你关心我，你怎么会这么希望呢？你关心我吗？我希望你能以某种方式证明这一点。

‘How can I prove it more than I have done?’ she cried, in a distraction of tenderness. ‘Will this prove it more?’
“我怎么能比我所做的更能证明这一点呢？”她大声喊道，温柔的心分散了注意力。 “这能更证明这一点吗？”

She clasped his neck, and for the first time Clare learnt what an impassioned woman’s kisses were like upon the lips of one whom she loved with all her heart and soul, as Tess loved him.
她搂住他的脖子，克莱尔第一次了解到一个充满激情的女人的吻在她全心全意地爱着的人的嘴唇上是什么样子，就像苔丝爱他一样。

‘There—now do you believe?’ she asked, flushed, and wiping her eyes.
“好了——现在你相信了吗？”她红着脸问道，擦着眼睛。

‘Yes. I never really doubted—never, never!’
'是的。我从来没有真正怀疑过——从来没有，从来没有！

So they drove on through the gloom, forming one bundle inside the sail-cloth, the horse going as he would, and the rain driving against them. She had consented. She might as well have agreed at first. The ‘appetite for joy’ which pervades all creation, that tremendous force which sways humanity to its purpose, as the tide sways the helpless weed, was not to be controlled by vague lucubrations over the social rubric.
于是，他们在黑暗中继续前行，在帆布里扎成一团，马随心所欲地前行，大雨打在他们身上。她已经同意了。她或许一开始就同意了。弥漫在所有造物中的“快乐的欲望”，就像潮水摇动无助的杂草一样，推动人类实现其目标的巨大力量，不能被社会规则的模糊思考所控制。

‘I must write to my mother,’ she said. ‘You don’t mind my doing that?’
“我必须写信给我妈妈，”她说。 “你不介意我这么做吗？”

‘Of course not, dear child. You are a child to me, Tess, not to know how very proper it is to write to your mother at such a time, and how wrong it would be in me to object. Where does she live?’
“当然不是，亲爱的孩子。苔丝，对我来说，你还是个孩子，不知道在这种时候给你母亲写信是多么恰当，如果我反对，那就是多么错​​误。她住在哪里？'

‘At the same place—Marlott. On the further side of Blackmoor Vale.’
“在同一个地方——马洛特。在布莱克莫尔谷的另一边。

‘Ah, then I HAVE seen you before this summer—‘
“啊，那么今年夏天之前我就见过你了——”

‘Yes; at that dance on the green; but you would not dance with me. O, I hope that is of no ill-omen for us now!’
'是的;在那场果岭上的舞蹈；但你不肯和我跳舞。哦，我希望这对我们来说不是不祥之兆！

XXXI
三十一

Tess wrote a most touching and urgent letter to her mother the very next day, and by the end of the week a response to her communication arrived in Joan Durbeyfield’s wandering last-century hand.
第二天，苔丝给她的母亲写了一封最感人、最紧急的信，到了周末，琼·德北菲尔德在上个世纪游荡的手中收到了对她信件的回复。

DEAR TESS,—
亲爱的苔丝，——


J write these few lines Hoping they will find you well, as they leave me at Present, thank God for it. Dear Tess, we are all glad to Hear that you are going really to be married soon. But with respect to your question, Tess, J say between ourselves, quite private but very strong, that on no account do you say a word of your Bygone Trouble to him. J did not tell everything to your Father, he being so Proud on account of his Respectability, which, perhaps, your Intended is the same. Many a woman—some of the Highest in the Land—have had a Trouble in their time; and why should you Trumpet yours when others don’t Trumpet theirs? No girl would be such a Fool, specially as it is so long ago, and not your Fault at all. J shall answer the same if you ask me fifty times. Besides, you must bear in mind that, knowing it to be your Childish Nature to tell all that’s in your heart—so simple!—J made you promise me never to let it out by Word or Deed, having your Welfare in my Mind; and you most solemnly did promise it going from this Door. J have not named either that Question or your coming marriage to your Father, as he would blab it everywhere, poor Simple Man.
我写下这几行希望他们能找到你，因为他们把我留在了现在，感谢上帝。亲爱的苔丝，我们都很高兴听到你真的很快就要结婚了。但关于你的问题，苔丝，J 在我们之间说，非常私密但非常强烈，你决不向他说起你过去的麻烦。 J没有把一切都告诉你的父亲，他因为他的受人尊敬而感到如此自豪，也许，你的意图是一样的。许多女人——其中一些是这片土地上的至高无上的女人——都曾在她们的时代遇到过麻烦。当别人不宣扬他们的时，为什么你要宣扬你的呢？没有哪个女孩会是这样的傻瓜，特别是在这么久以前，根本不是你的错。如果你问我五十次，我也会回答同样的问题。此外，你必须记住，你知道把心里的一切都说出来是你幼稚的天性——就这么简单！——我让你答应我永远不会通过言语或行为泄露出来，我心里想着你的福祉；你确实从这扇门里郑重地做出了承诺。我没有提到这个问题，也没有提到你即将与你的父亲结婚，因为他会到处谈论它，可怜的简单人。


Dear Tess, keep up your Spirits, and we mean to send you a Hogshead of Cyder for you Wedding, knowing there is not much in your parts, and thin Sour Stuff what there is. So no more at present, and with kind love to your Young Man.—From your affectte. Mother,
亲爱的苔丝，保持你的精神，我们打算在你的婚礼上送你一桶赛德酒，因为我知道你的部分并没有太多，还有稀酸的东西。所以现在就不再这样了，并对你的年轻人充满善意的爱。——来自你的情感。母亲，


J. DURBEYFIELD
J·德北菲尔德

‘O mother, mother!’ murmured Tess.
“噢，妈妈，妈妈！”苔丝低声说道。

She was recognizing how light was the touch of events the most oppressive upon Mrs Durbeyfield’s elastic spirit. Her mother did not see life as Tess saw it. That haunting episode of bygone days was to her mother but a passing accident. But perhaps her mother was right as to the course to be followed, whatever she might be in her reasons. Silence seemed, on the face of it, best for her adored one’s happiness: silence it should be.
她意识到，事件的轻微影响对德北菲尔德夫人弹性的精神来说是最沉重的压力。她母亲对生活的看法与苔丝不同。往日的那段令人难忘的经历对她母亲来说不过是一次偶然的事件。但也许她母亲关于应遵循的方针是正确的，无论她的理由是什么。从表面上看，沉默似乎最有利于她心爱之人的幸福：就应该沉默。

Thus steadied by a command from the only person in the world who had any shadow of right to control her action, Tess grew calmer. The responsibility was shifted, and her heart was lighter than it had been for weeks. The days of declining autumn which followed her assent, beginning with the month of October, formed a season through which she lived in spiritual altitudes more nearly approaching ecstasy than any other period of her life.
世界上唯一有权控制自己行动的人发出了命令，苔丝的心情因此平静下来。责任转移了，她的心情比几周以来都轻松了。在她同意之后，从十月份开始，秋天的日子形成了一个季节，在这个季节里，她的精神高度比她一生中的任何其他时期都更近乎狂喜。

There was hardly a touch of earth in her love for Clare. To her sublime trustfulness he was all that goodness could be—knew all that a guide, philosopher, and friend should know. She thought every line in the contour of his person the perfection of masculine beauty, his soul the soul of a saint, his intellect that of a seer. The wisdom of her love for him, as love, sustained her dignity; she seemed to be wearing a crown. The compassion of his love for her, as she saw it, made her lift up her heart to him in devotion. He would sometimes catch her large, worshipful eyes, that had no bottom to them looking at him from their depths, as if she saw something immortal before her.
她对克莱尔的爱几乎没有一丝泥土气息。对于她崇高的信任来说，他就是善良的全部——知道一个向导、哲学家和朋友应该知道的一切。她认为他身上的每一根线条都是完美的阳刚之美，他的灵魂是圣人的灵魂，他的智慧是先知的智慧。她对他的爱的智慧，就像爱情一样，维持了她的尊严；她似乎戴着一顶王冠。在她看来，他对她的慈悲之爱使她对他倾心不已。有时他会捕捉到她那双充满崇拜的大眼睛，那双眼睛深不见底，从深处看着他，仿佛看到了不朽的东西。

She dismissed the past—trod upon it and put it out, as one treads on a coal that is smouldering and dangerous.
她对过去不屑一顾——踩着它然后把它扑灭，就像踩在正在闷烧的危险煤炭上一样。

She had not known that men could be so disinterested, chivalrous, protective, in their love for women as he. Angel Clare was far from all that she thought him in this respect; absurdly far, indeed; but he was, in truth, more spiritual than animal; he had himself well in hand, and was singularly free from grossness. Though not cold-natured, he was rather bright than hot—less Byronic than Shelleyan; could love desperately, but with a love more especially inclined to the imaginative and ethereal; it was a fastidious emotion which could jealously guard the loved one against his very self. This amazed and enraptured Tess, whose slight experiences had been so infelicitous till now; and in her reaction from indignation against the male sex she swerved to excess of honour for Clare.
她不知道男人对女人的爱可以像他这样无私、侠义、保护欲。在这方面，安吉尔·克莱尔与她想象中的他相差甚远。确实，遥不可及；但事实上，他比动物更具有精神性。他控制得很好，而且非常没有粗俗。虽然他的性情并不冷酷，但他却很聪明，而不是热情——不像拜伦式，而是雪莱式；可以拼命地去爱，但更倾向于富有想象力和空灵的爱；这是一种挑剔的情感，可以嫉妒地保护所爱的人免受自己的伤害。这让苔丝既惊讶又欣喜若狂，她的那些小小的经历到现在为止都是那么不幸。在她对男性的愤怒的反应中，她转向对克莱尔的过度尊重。

They unaffectedly sought each other’s company; in her honest faith she did not disguise her desire to be with him. The sum of her instincts on this matter, if clearly stated, would have been that the elusive quality of her sex which attracts men in general might be distasteful to so perfect a man after an avowal of love, since it must in its very nature carry with it a suspicion of art.
他们不假思索地寻求彼此的陪伴；她诚实地相信，并没有掩饰自己想和他在一起的愿望。如果明确说明的话，她在这件事上的本能总和就是，她的性别的难以捉摸的品质通常会吸引男人，但在公开表达爱意后，对于如此完美的男人来说可能会令人厌恶，因为它本质上必须带有随之而来的是对艺术的怀疑。

The country custom of unreserved comradeship out of doors during betrothal was the only custom she knew, and to her it had no strangeness; though it seemed oddly anticipative to Clare till he saw how normal a thing she, in common with all the other dairy-folk, regarded it. Thus, during this October month of wonderful afternoons they roved along the meads by creeping paths which followed the brinks of trickling tributary brooks, hopping across by little wooden bridges to the other side, and back again. They were never out of the sound of some purling weir, whose buzz accompanied their own murmuring, while the beams of the sun, almost as horizontal as the mead itself, formed a pollen of radiance over the landscape. They saw tiny blue fogs in the shadows of trees and hedges, all the time that there was bright sunshine elsewhere. The sun was so near the ground, and the sward so flat, that the shadows of Clare and Tess would stretch a quarter of a mile ahead of them, like two long fingers pointing afar to where the green alluvial reaches abutted against the sloping sides of the vale.
订婚期间在户外毫无保留地结下友谊的乡下习俗是她所知道的唯一习俗，对她来说这并不陌生。尽管对克莱尔来说，这似乎是一种奇怪的期待，直到他发现她和所有其他奶牛场的人一样，认为这是多么正常的事情。因此，在这个十月美好的下午，他们沿着蜿蜒的小路沿着草地漫步，沿着蜿蜒的支流小溪的边缘，通过小木桥跳到对岸，然后再回来。他们从未离开过水坝的声音，水坝的嗡嗡声伴随着他们自己的低语，而太阳的光束几乎与蜂蜜酒本身一样水平，在大地上形成了光辉的花粉。他们看到树和树篱的阴影里有微小的蓝色雾气，而其他地方却一直有明亮的阳光。太阳离地面如此之近，草地又如此平坦，克莱尔和苔丝的影子会在他们前方延伸四分之一英里，就像两根长长的手指远远指向绿色冲积物紧靠着山坡的地方。山谷。

Men were at work here and there—for it was the season for ‘taking up’ the meadows, or digging the little waterways clear for the winter irrigation, and mending their banks where trodden down by the cows. The shovelfuls of loam, black as jet, brought there by the river when it was as wide as the whole valley, were an essence of soils, pounded champaigns of the past, steeped, refined, and subtilized to extraordinary richness, out of which came all the fertility of the mead, and of the cattle grazing there.
男人们到处工作——因为这是“占领”草地的季节，或者是挖掘小水道以供冬季灌溉，以及修补被奶牛踩踏过的河岸的季节。当河水和整个山谷一样宽的时候，那一铲黑如黑玉的壤土被带到这里，是土壤的精华，是过去捣碎的香槟，经过浸泡、提炼和精加工，变得异常丰富，从中产生了肥沃的蜂蜜酒和在那里吃草的牛群。

Clare hardily kept his arm round her waist in sight of these watermen, with the air of a man who was accustomed to public dalliance, though actually as shy as she who, with lips parted and eyes askance on the labourers, wore the look of a wary animal the while.
克莱尔在看到这些船工的时候，几乎没有用手臂搂住她的腰，一副习惯于在公众面前调情的男人的神态，尽管她实际上和她一样害羞，她张着嘴唇，斜视着工人，脸上挂着一副女人的样子。警惕的动物同时。

‘You are not ashamed of owning me as yours before them!’ she said gladly.
“在他们面前拥有我，你并不感到羞耻！”她高兴地说。

‘O no!’
“哦，不！”

‘But if it should reach the ears of your friends at Emminster that you are walking about like this with me, a milkmaid—‘
“但是，如果你在埃明斯特的朋友们听到你像这样和我这个挤奶女工一起散步——”

‘The most bewitching milkmaid ever seen.’
“有史以来最迷人的挤奶女工。”

‘They might feel it a hurt to their dignity.’
“他们可能会觉得这伤害了他们的尊严。”

‘My dear girl—a d’Urberville hurt the dignity of a Clare! It is a grand card to play—that of your belonging to such a family, and I am reserving it for a grand effect when we are married, and have the proofs of your descent from Parson Tringham. Apart from that, my future is to be totally foreign to my family—it will not affect even the surface of their lives. We shall leave this part of England—perhaps England itself—and what does it matter how people regard us here? You will like going, will you not?’
“我亲爱的姑娘——德伯维尔家族伤害了克莱尔家族的尊严！这是一张可以打的大牌——表明你属于这样一个家庭，我保留这张牌是为了在我们结婚时产生盛大的效果，并有你来自特林厄姆牧师的血统证明。除此之外，我的未来对我的家人来说是完全陌生的——这甚至不会影响他们生活的表面。我们将离开英格兰的这个地区——也许是英格兰本身——这里的人们如何看待我们又有什么关系呢？你会喜欢去的，不是吗？

She could answer no more than a bare affirmative, so great was the emotion aroused in her at the thought of going through the world with him as his own familiar friend. Her feelings almost filled her ears like a babble of waves, and surged up to her eyes. She put her hand in his, and thus they went on, to a place where the reflected sun glared up from the river, under a bridge, with a molten-metallic glow that dazzled their eyes, though the sun itself was hidden by the bridge. They stood still, whereupon little furred and feathered heads popped up from the smooth surface of the water; but, finding that the disturbing presences had paused, and not passed by, they disappeared again. Upon this river-brink they lingered till the fog began to close round them—which was very early in the evening at this time of the year—settling on the lashes of her eyes, where it rested like crystals, and on his brows and hair.
她只能简单地回答是肯定的，一想到要和他作为自己熟悉的朋友一起走遍这个世界，她的情感是多么强烈。她的情绪几乎像海浪一样充满了她的耳朵，并涌上了她的眼睛。她把手放在他的手上，他们就这样继续前行，到了一座桥下，阳光从河里反射出来，闪烁着熔化的金属光芒，使他们眼花缭乱，尽管太阳本身被桥遮住了。 。他们一动不动地站着，然后，毛茸茸的小脑袋从光滑的水面上冒了出来。但是，发现那些令人不安的存在已经停了下来，并没有过去，他们又消失了。他们在河边徘徊，直到雾气开始笼罩他们——每年的这个时候，都是傍晚时分——落在她眼睛的睫毛上，雾气像水晶一样落在他的眉毛和头发上。

They walked later on Sundays, when it was quite dark. Some of the dairy-people, who were also out of doors on the first Sunday evening after their engagement, heard her impulsive speeches, ecstasized to fragments, though they were too far off to hear the words discoursed; noted the spasmodic catch in her remarks, broken into syllables by the leapings of her heart, as she walked leaning on his arm; her contented pauses, the occasional little laugh upon which her soul seemed to ride—the laugh of a woman in company with the man she loves and has won from all other women—unlike anything else in nature. They marked the buoyancy of her tread, like the skim of a bird which has not quite alighted.
周日，天色已经很黑的时候，他们会散步。订婚后的第一个周日晚上，一些奶制品厂的人也在户外，听到了她冲动的演讲，欣喜若狂，尽管他们距离太远，听不到谈话内容；当她靠在他的手臂上行走时，她注意到她说话时断断续续的，随着她的心跳而断成多个音节。她满足的停顿，偶尔的小笑，她的灵魂似乎骑在上面——一个女人与她所爱的男人在一起的笑声，并且是从所有其他女人那里赢得的——与自然界中的任何其他东西都不一样。它们标志着她脚步的浮力，就像一只尚未完全降落的鸟儿的掠过。

Her affection for him was now the breath and life of Tess’s being; it enveloped her as a photosphere, irradiated her into forgetfulness of her past sorrows, keeping back the gloomy spectres that would persist in their attempts to touch her—doubt, fear, moodiness, care, shame. She knew that they were waiting like wolves just outside the circumscribing light, but she had long spells of power to keep them in hungry subjection there.
她对他的感情现在成了苔丝生命的气息和生命。它像光球一样笼罩着她，照射着她，让她忘记了过去的悲伤，阻止了那些持续试图触碰她的阴郁幽灵——怀疑、恐惧、喜怒无常、关心、羞耻。她知道他们像狼一样在限制光线之外等待着，但她有长期的力量让他们在那里饥饿地屈服。

A spiritual forgetfulness co-existed with an intellectual remembrance. She walked in brightness, but she knew that in the background those shapes of darkness were always spread. They might be receding, or they might be approaching, one or the other, a little every day.
精神上的遗忘与理智上的记忆并存。她走在光明中，但她知道背景中总是散布着那些黑暗的形状。它们可能正在后退，也可能正在接近，无论是其中之一，还是每天一点点。

One evening Tess and Clare were obliged to sit indoors keeping house, all the other occupants of the domicile being away. As they talked she looked thoughtfully up at him, and met his two appreciative eyes.
一天晚上，苔丝和克莱尔不得不坐在室内看家，家里的所有其他住户都不在家。他们说话的时候，她若有所思地抬头看着他，对上了他两只赞赏的眼睛。

‘I am not worthy of you—no, I am not!’ she burst out, jumping up from her low stool as though appalled at his homage, and the fulness of her own joy thereat.
“我配不上你——不，我配不上！”她突然从矮凳上跳起来，大声说道，似乎对他的敬意和她自己的喜悦感到震惊。

Clare, deeming the whole basis of her excitement to be that which was only the smaller part of it, said—
克莱尔认为她兴奋的全部基础只是其中的一小部分，她说——

‘I won’t have you speak like it, dear Tess! Distinction does not consist in the facile use of a contemptible set of conventions, but in being numbered among those who are true, and honest, and just, and pure, and lovely, and of good report—as you are, my Tess.’
“我不会让你这样说话的，亲爱的苔丝！区别并不在于轻易使用一套可鄙的惯例，而在于被归为那些真实、诚实、公正、纯洁、可爱、有好名声的人——就像你一样，我的苔丝。

She struggled with the sob in her throat. How often had that string of excellences made her young heart ache in church of late years, and how strange that he should have cited them now.
她在喉咙里挣扎着抽泣。近几年来，在教堂里，那一连串的卓越事迹多少次让她年轻的心感到疼痛，而他现在引用它们是多么奇怪。

‘Why didn’t you stay and love me when I—was sixteen; living with my little sisters and brothers, and you danced on the green? O, why didn’t you, why didn’t you!’ she said, impetuously clasping her hands.
“当我——十六岁的时候，你为什么不留下来爱我；和我的小姐妹和兄弟住在一起，你在草地上跳舞吗？哦，你为什么不，你为什么不！”她急躁地握紧双手说道。

Angel began to comfort and reassure her, thinking to himself, truly enough, what a creature of moods she was, and how careful he would have to be of her when she depended for her happiness entirely on him.
安吉尔开始安慰她，让她放心，他心里想，她确实是一个情绪化的人，当她的幸福完全依赖于他时，他必须多么小心地对待她。

‘Ah—why didn’t I stay!’ he said. ‘That is just what I feel. If I had only known! But you must not be so bitter in your regret—why should you be?’
“啊——我为什么不留下来！”他说。 ‘这正是我的感受。我要是知道就好了！但你不应该如此后悔——为什么要这样呢？

With the woman’s instinct to hide she diverged hastily—
女人本能地躲了起来，连忙分开——

‘I should have had four years more of your heart than I can ever have now. Then I should not have wasted my time as I have done—I should have had so much longer happiness!’
“我应该比现在多四年来对你的心。”那么我就不应该像现在这样浪费时间——我应该拥有更长久的幸福！”

It was no mature woman with a long dark vista of intrigue behind her who was tormented thus, but a girl of simple life, not yet one-and twenty, who had been caught during her days of immaturity like a bird in a springe. To calm herself the more completely, she rose from her little stool and left the room, overturning the stool with her skirts as she went.
遭受这样折磨的并不是一个背负着长期黑暗阴谋的成熟女人，而是一个生活简单的女孩，还不到一岁二十岁，在她不成熟的日子里像一只春天的小鸟一样被抓住了。为了让自己更彻底地平静下来，她从小凳子上站起来，离开了房间，走的时候裙子掀翻了凳子。

He sat on by the cheerful firelight thrown from a bundle of green ash-sticks laid across the dogs; the sticks snapped pleasantly, and hissed out bubbles of sap from their ends. When she came back she was herself again.
他坐在狗身上，放着一捆绿色的烟灰棒，发出欢快的火光。木棍愉快地折断，并从末端发出嘶嘶的汁液气泡。当她回来时，她又变回了自己。

‘Do you not think you are just a wee bit capricious, fitful, Tess?’ he said, good-humouredly, as he spread a cushion for her on the stool, and seated himself in the settle beside her. ‘I wanted to ask you something, and just then you ran away.’
“苔丝，你不觉得你有点任性、反复无常吗？”他幽默地说，同时给她铺了一个垫子放在凳子上，然后在她旁边的长凳上坐下。 “我想问你一件事，你却跑掉了。”

‘Yes, perhaps I am capricious,’ she murmured. She suddenly approached him, and put a hand upon each of his arms. ‘No, Angel, I am not really so—by nature, I mean!’ The more particularly to assure him that she was not, she placed herself close to him in the settle, and allowed her head to find a resting-place against Clare’s shoulder. ‘What did you want to ask me—I am sure I will answer it,’ she continued humbly.
“是的，也许我很任性，”她低声说道。她突然走近他，将一只手放在他的双臂上。 “不，安吉尔，我并不是真的这样——我的意思是，生性如此！”为了向他保证她不是这样，她把自己靠近他放在长椅上，让她的头靠着找到了一个休息的地方。克莱尔的肩膀。 “你想问我什么——我相信我会回答的，”她谦虚地继续说道。

‘Well, you love me, and have agreed to marry me, and hence there follows a thirdly, ‘When shall the day be?’’
“好吧，你爱我，并同意嫁给我，因此接下来是第三个问题，‘那一天是什么时候？’”

‘I like living like this.’
“我喜欢这样的生活。”

‘But I must think of starting in business on my own hook with the new year, or a little later. And before I get involved in the multifarious details of my new position, I should like to have secured my partner.’
“但我必须考虑在新年或稍后一点开始自己做生意。在我参与新职位的繁杂细节之前，我希望先找到我的合作伙伴。

‘But,’ she timidly answered, ‘to talk quite practically, wouldn’t it be best not to marry till after all that?—Though I can’t bear the thought o’ your going away and leaving me here!’
“但是，”她胆怯地回答，“说实话，在那之前不要结婚不是最好吗？——尽管我无法忍受你离开并把我留在这里！”

‘Of course you cannot—and it is not best in this case. I want you to help me in many ways in making my start. When shall it be? Why not a fortnight from now?’
“当然不能——而且在这种情况下这也不是最好的。我希望你能在很多方面帮助我开始我的旅程。会是什么时候呢？为什么不在两周后呢？

‘No,’ she said, becoming grave: ‘I have so many things to think of first.’
“不，”她的表情变得严肃起来，“我有很多事情要先考虑。”

‘But—‘
'但-'

He drew her gently nearer to him.
他轻轻地将她拉近自己。

The reality of marriage was startling when it loomed so near. Before discussion of the question had proceeded further there walked round the corner of the settle into the full firelight of the apartment Mr Dairyman Crick, Mrs Crick, and two of the milkmaids.
当婚姻如此临近时，现实令人震惊。在这个问题的讨论进一步进行之前，奶牛场老板克里克先生、克里克太太和两个挤奶女工绕过长椅的拐角，走进了公寓里充满火光的地方。

Tess sprang like an elastic ball from his side to her feet, while her face flushed and her eyes shone in the firelight.
苔丝像一个弹力球一样从他身边跳到脚边，她的脸涨得通红，眼睛在火光下闪闪发亮。

‘I knew how it would be if I sat so close to him!’ she cried, with vexation. ‘I said to myself, they are sure to come and catch us! But I wasn’t really sitting on his knee, though it might ha’ seemed as if I was almost!’
“我知道如果我坐得离他这么近会怎么样！”她烦恼地喊道。 “我对自己说，他们一定会来抓我们的！”但我并没有真正坐在他的膝盖上，尽管看起来我几乎就坐在了他的膝盖上！

‘Well—if so be you hadn’t told us, I am sure we shouldn’t ha’ noticed that ye had been sitting anywhere at all in this light,’ replied the dairyman. He continued to his wife, with the stolid mien of a man who understood nothing of the emotions relating to matrimony—‘Now, Christianer, that shows that folks should never fancy other folks be supposing things when they bain’t. O no, I should never ha’ thought a word of where she was a sitting to, if she hadn’t told me—not I.’
“好吧——如果你没有告诉我们，我相信我们就不会注意到你在这个角度上坐在任何地方，”奶牛场老板回答道。他继续对他的妻子说，他的表情冷酷无情，完全不懂婚姻中的情感——“现在，克里斯蒂安纳，这表明人们永远不应该幻想别人在自己不喜欢的情况下猜测事情。”噢，不，如果她没有告诉我——而不是我，我根本不会想到她坐在哪里。

‘We are going to be married soon,’ said Clare, with improvised phlegm.
“我们很快就要结婚了，”克莱尔带着即兴的痰说道。

‘Ah—and be ye! Well, I am truly glad to hear it, sir. I’ve thought you mid do such a thing for some time. She’s too good for a dairymaid—I said so the very first day I zid her—and a prize for any man; and what’s more, a wonderful woman for a gentleman-farmer’s wife; he won’t be at the mercy of his baily wi’ her at his side.’
‘啊——是你们！嗯，我真的很高兴听到这个消息，先生。我认为你做这种事已经有一段时间了。她对于一个挤奶女工来说太好了——我在第一天给她打电话时就这么说了——而且对任何男人来说都是一个奖赏；更重要的是，对于一位绅士农民的妻子来说，这是一个很棒的女人；有她在身边，他就不会受到他的贝利的摆布。

Somehow Tess disappeared. She had been even more struck with the look of the girls who followed Crick than abashed by Crick’s blunt praise.
不知怎的，苔丝失踪了。她对跟随克里克的女孩们的外表感到更加震惊，而不是对克里克直率的赞扬感到羞愧。

After supper, when she reached her bedroom, they were all present. A light was burning, and each damsel was sitting up whitely in her bed, awaiting Tess, the whole like a row of avenging ghosts.
晚饭后，当她回到卧室时，他们都在。灯亮了，每个姑娘都脸色苍白地坐在床上，等待着苔丝，整个人就像一排复仇的幽灵。

But she saw in a few moments that there was no malice in their mood. They could scarcely feel as a loss what they had never expected to have. Their condition was objective, contemplative.
但很快她就​​发现他们的情绪中并没有恶意。他们几乎不会对自己未曾预料到的事情感到失落。他们的处境是客观的、沉思的。

‘He’s going to marry her!’ murmured Retty, never taking eyes off Tess. ‘How her face do show it!’
“他要娶她！”莱蒂低声说道，眼睛始终没有离开苔丝。 “从她的脸上就可以看出这一点！”

‘You BE going to marry him?’ asked Marian.
“你要嫁给他吗？”玛丽安问。

‘Yes,’ said Tess.
“是的，”苔丝说。

‘When?’
'什么时候？'

‘Some day.’
“有一天。”

They thought that this was evasiveness only.
他们认为这只是逃避。

‘YES—going to MARRY him—a gentleman!’ repeated Izz Huett.
“是的——要嫁给他——一位绅士！”伊兹·休特重复道。

And by a sort of fascination the three girls, one after another, crept out of their beds, and came and stood barefooted round Tess. Retty put her hands upon Tess’s shoulders, as if to realize her friend’s corporeality after such a miracle, and the other two laid their arms round her waist, all looking into her face.
出于某种迷恋，三个女孩一个接一个地从床上爬起来，光着脚站在苔丝身边。莱蒂把手放在苔丝的肩膀上，仿佛在经历了这样的奇迹之后意识到她的朋友的肉体，另外两个人则用手臂搂住她的腰，全都看着她的脸。

‘How it do seem! Almost more than I can think of!’ said Izz Huett.
‘看起来怎么样！几乎超出了我的想象！”Izz Huett 说道。

Marian kissed Tess. ‘Yes,’ she murmured as she withdrew her lips.
玛丽安吻了苔丝。 “是的，”她收回嘴唇，低声说道。

‘Was that because of love for her, or because other lips have touched there by now?’ continued Izz drily to Marian.
“那是因为对她的爱，还是因为现在已经有其他嘴唇接触过那里？”伊兹冷冷地对玛丽安继续说道。

‘I wasn’t thinking o’ that,’ said Marian simply. ‘I was on’y feeling all the strangeness o’t—that she is to be his wife, and nobody else. I don’t say nay to it, nor either of us, because we did not think of it—only loved him. Still, nobody else is to marry’n in the world—no fine lady, nobody in silks and satins; but she who do live like we.’
“我没想到这一点，”玛丽安简单地说。 “我只是感到奇怪——她将成为他的妻子，而不是其他人。”我没有拒绝，我们也没有拒绝，因为我们没有想到这一点——只是爱他。尽管如此，世界上没有人可以结婚——没有漂亮的女士，没有人穿着丝绸和缎子；没有人可以结婚。但她确实像我们一样生活。

‘Are you sure you don’t dislike me for it?’ said Tess in a low voice.
“你确定你不会因此而讨厌我吗？”苔丝低声说道。

They hung about her in their white nightgowns before replying, as if they considered their answer might lie in her look.
他们穿着白色睡衣围在她身边，然后才做出回应，仿佛他们认为答案可能就在于她的外表。

‘I don’t know—I don’t know,’ murmured Retty Priddle. ‘I want to hate ‘ee; but I cannot!’
“我不知道——我不知道，”雷蒂·普里德尔低声说道。 ‘我想恨‘ee;但是我不能！'

‘That’s how I feel,’ echoed Izz and Marian. ‘I can’t hate her. Somehow she hinders me!’
“这就是我的感受，”伊兹和玛丽安附和道。 ‘我不能恨她。不知怎的，她妨碍了我！”

‘He ought to marry one of you,’ murmured Tess.
“他应该嫁给你们中的一个人，”苔丝低声说道。

‘Why?’
'为什么？'

‘You are all better than I.’
“你们都比我好。”

‘We better than you?’ said the girls in a low, slow whisper. ‘No, no, dear Tess!’
“我们比你们强？”女孩们低声缓慢地低声说道。 “不，不，亲爱的苔丝！”

‘You are!’ she contradicted impetuously. And suddenly tearing away from their clinging arms she burst into a hysterical fit of tears, bowing herself on the chest of drawers and repeating incessantly, ‘O yes, yes, yes!’
“你是！”她急躁地反驳道。突然，她挣脱了他们紧握的手臂，歇斯底里地哭了起来，跪在五斗橱上，不断地重复着：“哦，是的，是的，是的！”

Having once given way she could not stop her weeping.
一旦屈服，她就无法停止哭泣。

‘He ought to have had one of you!’ she cried. ‘I think I ought to make him even now! You would be better for him than—I don’t know what I’m saying! O! O!’
“他应该拥有你们中的一个！”她喊道。 ‘我想我现在就应该让他这么做！你对他来说会比——我不知道我在说什么更好！哦！噢！’

They went up to her and clasped her round, but still her sobs tore her.
他们走到她身边，抱住她，但她的抽泣声仍然撕裂着她。

‘Get some water,’ said Marian, ‘She’s upset by us, poor thing, poor thing!’
“去拿点水来，”玛丽安说，“我们让她很不高兴，可怜的东西，可怜的东西！”

They gently led her back to the side of her bed, where they kissed her warmly.
他们轻轻地把她带回床边，热情地吻了她。

‘You are best for’n,’ said Marian. ‘More ladylike, and a better scholar than we, especially since he had taught ‘ee so much. But even you ought to be proud. You BE proud, I’m sure!’
“你最适合，”玛丽安说。 “比我们更有淑女风范，也是一个更好的学者，尤其是因为他教了我们这么多。”但即使是你也应该感到自豪。我相信你会感到自豪！

‘Yes, I am,’ she said; ‘and I am ashamed at so breaking down.’
“是的，我是，”她说。 “我为如此崩溃感到羞愧。”

When they were all in bed, and the light was out, Marian whispered across to her—
当他们都躺在床上，灯灭了，玛丽安对她低声说道——

‘You will think of us when you be his wife, Tess, and of how we told ‘ee that we loved him, and how we tried not to hate you, and did not hate you, and could not hate you, because you were his choice, and we never hoped to be chose by him.’
“苔丝，当你成为他的妻子时，你会想起我们，想起我们如何告诉你我们爱他，我们如何努力不恨你，也没有恨你，也无法恨你，因为你是他的选择，我们从来不希望被他选择。”

They were not aware that, at these words, salt, stinging tears trickled down upon Tess’s pillow anew, and how she resolved, with a bursting heart, to tell all her history to Angel Clare, despite her mother’s command—to let him for whom she lived and breathed despise her if he would, and her mother regard her as a fool, rather then preserve a silence which might be deemed a treachery to him, and which somehow seemed a wrong to these.
他们不知道，听到这句话，咸涩的、刺痛的泪水重新滴在苔丝的枕头上，也不知道她是如何心碎地决定把她所有的历史告诉安吉尔·克莱尔，不顾母亲的命令——让他为谁而战。如果他愿意的话，她的生活和呼吸都会鄙视她，而她的母亲则认为她是个傻瓜，而不是保持沉默，这对他来说可能被视为背叛，而且对这些人来说似乎是错误的。

XXXII
三十二

This penitential mood kept her from naming the wedding-day. The beginning of November found its date still in abeyance, though he asked her at the most tempting times. But Tess’s desire seemed to be for a perpetual betrothal in which everything should remain as it was then.
这种悔罪的心情让她没有指定婚礼的日子。十一月初，尽管他在最诱人的时候向她提出了邀请，但约会仍然被搁置。但苔丝的愿望似乎是永久订婚，一切都应该保持原来的样子。

The meads were changing now; but it was still warm enough in early afternoons before milking to idle there awhile, and the state of dairy-work at this time of year allowed a spare hour for idling. Looking over the damp sod in the direction of the sun, a glistening ripple of gossamer webs was visible to their eyes under the luminary, like the track of moonlight on the sea. Gnats, knowing nothing of their brief glorification, wandered across the shimmer of this pathway, irradiated as if they bore fire within them, then passed out of its line, and were quite extinct. In the presence of these things he would remind her that the date was still the question.
草地现在正在发生变化。但下午早些时候，挤奶前天气仍然足够温暖，可以在那里闲置一段时间，而且每年这个时候的乳制品工作状况允许有空闲时间闲置。越过潮湿的草皮，朝太阳的方向望去，在灯光下，他们的眼睛可以看到一层层闪闪发光的网状波纹，就像月光在海面上留下的轨迹。蚊子对它们短暂的荣耀一无所知，它们在这条微光的小路上徘徊，仿佛它们体内有火一样受到辐射，然后越出了它的路线，然后就完全灭绝了。面对这些事情，他会提醒她，日期仍然是问题。

Or he would ask her at night, when he accompanied her on some mission invented by Mrs Crick to give him the opportunity. This was mostly a journey to the farmhouse on the slopes above the vale, to inquire how the advanced cows were getting on in the straw-barton to which they were relegated. For it was a time of the year that brought great changes to the world of kine. Batches of the animals were sent away daily to this lying-in hospital, where they lived on straw till their calves were born, after which event, and as soon as the calf could walk, mother and offspring were driven back to the dairy. In the interval which elapsed before the calves were sold there was, of course, little milking to be done, but as soon as the calf had been taken away the milkmaids would have to set to work as usual.
或者他会在晚上问她，当时他陪她执行克里克夫人为给他机会发明的某个任务。这主要是一次前往山谷上方山坡上农舍的旅程，询问先进的奶牛在它们被降级到的稻草巴顿中过得怎么样。因为这是一年中给kine世界带来巨大变化的时刻。每天都有一批批的动物被送到这家产科医院，在那里它们靠稻草生活，直到小牛出生，小牛出生后，一旦小牛能走路，母亲和后代就被赶回奶牛场。当然，在小牛出售之前的这段时间里，几乎没有什么挤奶的事情，但是一旦小牛被带走，挤奶女工就必须像往常一样开始工作。

Returning from one of these dark walks they reached a great gravel-cliff immediately over the levels, where they stood still and listened. The water was now high in the streams, squirting through the weirs, and tinkling under culverts; the smallest gullies were all full; there was no taking short cuts anywhere, and foot-passengers were compelled to follow the permanent ways. From the whole extent of the invisible vale came a multitudinous intonation; it forced upon their fancy that a great city lay below them, and that the murmur was the vociferation of its populace.
从一条黑暗的小路回来后，他们到达了紧邻水平面的巨大砾石悬崖，他们站在那里静静地听着。溪流中的水位现在很高，从堰中喷出，在涵洞下叮当作响。最小的沟壑都满了；任何地方都没有捷径可走，步行乘客被迫走固定路线。从整个看不见的山谷中传来了众多的声调。它迫使他们想象一座伟大的城市就在他们的脚下，而低语声是其民众的叫喊。

‘It seems like tens of thousands of them,’ said Tess; ‘holding public-meetings in their market-places, arguing, preaching, quarrelling, sobbing, groaning, praying, and cursing.’
“好像有好几万，”苔丝说。 “在市场上举行公开集会，争论、布道、争吵、哭泣、呻吟、祈祷和咒骂。”

Clare was not particularly heeding.
克莱尔并没有特别注意。

‘Did Crick speak to you to-day, dear, about his not wanting much assistance during the winter months?’
“亲爱的，克里克今天有没有跟你说过他在冬季不需要太多帮助？”

‘No.’
'不。'

‘The cows are going dry rapidly.’
“奶牛很快就会干涸。”

‘Yes. Six or seven went to the straw-barton yesterday, and three the day before, making nearly twenty in the straw already. Ah—is it that the farmer don’t want my help for the calving? O, I am not wanted here any more! And I have tried so hard to—‘
'是的。昨天有六七个人去了稻草巴顿，前天又去了三个，现在稻草里已经有将近二十个人了。啊——难道农夫不想让我帮忙生犊子吗？噢，这里不再需要我了！我已经非常努力地尝试——”

‘Crick didn’t exactly say that he would no longer require you. But, knowing what our relations were, he said in the most good-natured and respectful manner possible that he supposed on my leaving at Christmas I should take you with me, and on my asking what he would do without you he merely observed that, as a matter of fact, it was a time of year when he could do with a very little female help. I am afraid I was sinner enough to feel rather glad that he was in this way forcing your hand.’
“克里克并没有明确表示他不再需要你了。但是，知道我们的关系是什么，他以最友善和最尊重的方式说，他认为我在圣诞节离开时应该带你一起去，当我问他没有你会做什么时，他只是说，事实上，每年这个时候，他都需要很少的女性帮助。恐怕我罪孽深重，对他以这种方式强迫你感到相当高兴。

‘I don’t think you ought to have felt glad, Angel. Because ‘tis always mournful not to be wanted, even if at the same time ‘tis convenient.’
“我认为你不应该感到高兴，安吉尔。因为“不被需要总是令人悲伤的，即使同时‘很方便’。”

‘Well, it is convenient—you have admitted that.’ He put his finger upon her cheek. ‘Ah!’ he said.
“嗯，这很方便——你已经承认了。”他把手指放在她的脸颊上。 “啊！”他说。

‘What?’
'什么？'

‘I feel the red rising up at her having been caught! But why should I trifle so! We will not trifle—life is too serious.’
“我感觉到她被抓住了，红色上升了！”但我何必这么小气呢！我们不会开玩笑——生活太严肃了。”

‘It is. Perhaps I saw that before you did.’
'这是。也许我比你先看到了这一点。

She was seeing it then. To decline to marry him after all—in obedience to her emotion of last night—and leave the dairy, meant to go to some strange place, not a dairy; for milkmaids were not in request now calving-time was coming on; to go to some arable farm where no divine being like Angel Clare was. She hated the thought, and she hated more the thought of going home.
她当时就看到了。毕竟拒绝嫁给他——服从她昨晚的情绪——并离开乳品厂，意味着去一个陌生的地方，而不是乳品厂；因为现在产犊时间快到了，所以不需要挤奶女工。去某个可耕种的农场，那里没有像安吉尔·克莱尔这样的神灵。她讨厌这个想法，更讨厌回家的想法。

‘So that, seriously, dearest Tess,’ he continued, ‘since you will probably have to leave at Christmas, it is in every way desirable and convenient that I should carry you off then as my property. Besides, if you were not the most uncalculating girl in the world you would know that we could not go on like this for ever.’
“所以，说实话，最亲爱的苔丝，”他继续说道，“既然你可能要在圣诞节离开，那么我把你当作我的财产带走，从各方面来说都是可取和方便的。此外，如果你不是世界上最不计较的女孩，你就会知道我们不能永远这样下去。

‘I wish we could. That it would always be summer and autumn, and you always courting me, and always thinking as much of me as you have done through the past summer-time!’
'我希望我们可以。永远都是夏天和秋天，你总是向我求爱，总是像你在过去的夏天一样想念我！

‘I always shall.’
“我总是会的。”

‘O, I know you will!’ she cried, with a sudden fervour of faith in him. ‘Angel, I will fix the day when I will become yours for always!’
“哦，我知道你会的！”她喊道，突然对他充满了信心。 “天使，我会确定有一天我会永远属于你！”

Thus at last it was arranged between them, during that dark walk home, amid the myriads of liquid voices on the right and left.
就这样，在黑暗的回家路上，在左右两侧无数流动的声音中，这一切终于在他们之间安排好了。

When they reached the dairy Mr and Mrs Crick were promptly told—with injunctions of secrecy; for each of the lovers was desirous that the marriage should be kept as private as possible. The dairyman, though he had thought of dismissing her soon, now made a great concern about losing her. What should he do about his skimming? Who would make the ornamental butter-pats for the Anglebury and Sandbourne ladies? Mrs Crick congratulated Tess on the shilly-shallying having at last come to an end, and said that directly she set eyes on Tess she divined that she was to be the chosen one of somebody who was no common outdoor man; Tess had looked so superior as she walked across the barton on that afternoon of her arrival; that she was of a good family she could have sworn. In point of fact Mrs Crick did remember thinking that Tess was graceful and good-looking as she approached; but the superiority might have been a growth of the imagination aided by subsequent knowledge.
当他们到达乳品厂时，克里克夫妇立即被告知——并附有保密令；因为每对恋人都希望婚姻尽可能保持私密。奶牛场老板本来想尽快解雇她，但现在却非常担心失去她。对于他的浏览行为，他该怎么办？谁将为安格伯里和桑德伯恩的女士们制作装饰性黄油饼？克里克太太祝贺苔丝，这场犹豫不决的事情终于结束了，并说，当她第一眼看到苔丝时，她就预见到她将成为一个不寻常的户外男人的选择者；到达的那天下午，苔丝走过巴顿时，看上去非常优越。她可以发誓，她出身于一个好家庭。事实上，克里克夫人确实记得，当苔丝走近时，她觉得她既优雅又漂亮。但这种优越性可能是在后来的知识的帮助下想象力的增长。

Tess was now carried along upon the wings of the hours, without the sense of a will. The word had been given; the number of the day written down. Her naturally bright intelligence had begun to admit the fatalistic convictions common to field-folk and those who associate more extensively with natural phenomena than with their fellow-creatures; and she accordingly drifted into that passive responsiveness to all things her lover suggested, characteristic of the frame of mind.
苔丝现在乘着时光的翅膀飞翔，没有任何意志的感觉。话已经发出了；写下的日期数。她天生聪明才智已经开始承认宿命论的信念，这是田野人员和那些与自然现象联系比与同胞更广泛联系的人所共有的。因此，她陷入了对爱人建议的一切消极反应的状态，这是她心态的特征。

But she wrote anew to her mother, ostensibly to notify the wedding-day; really to again implore her advice. It was a gentleman who had chosen her, which perhaps her mother had not sufficiently considered. A post-nuptial explanation, which might be accepted with a light heart by a rougher man, might not be received with the same feeling by him. But this communication brought no reply from Mrs Durbeyfield.
但她又给母亲写了一封信，表面上是通知结婚日期，但实际上她并没有这样做。真的再次恳求她的建议。是一位绅士选择了她，也许她的母亲没有充分考虑到这一点。一个粗鲁的男人可能会以轻松的心情接受婚后的解释，但他可能不会以同样的感觉接受。但德北菲尔德夫人没有对这次通信做出任何答复。

Despite Angel Clare’s plausible representation to himself and to Tess of the practical need for their immediate marriage, there was in truth an element of precipitancy in the step, as became apparent at a later date. He loved her dearly, though perhaps rather ideally and fancifully than with the impassioned thoroughness of her feeling for him. He had entertained no notion, when doomed as he had thought to an unintellectual bucolic life, that such charms as he beheld in this idyllic creature would be found behind the scenes. Unsophistication was a thing to talk of; but he had not known how it really struck one until he came here. Yet he was very far from seeing his future track clearly, and it might be a year or two before he would be able to consider himself fairly started in life. The secret lay in the tinge of recklessness imparted to his career and character by the sense that he had been made to miss his true destiny through the prejudices of his family.
尽管安吉尔·克莱尔向自己和苔丝合理地表示了他们立即结婚的实际需要，但事实上，这一步骤有一个仓促的因素，这一点后来变得很明显。他深爱着她，尽管也许是出于理想和幻想，而不是她对他的热情和彻底。当他注定要过一种毫无理智的田园生活时，他并没有想到，他在这个田园诗般的生物身上看到的魅力会在幕后被发现。朴素是值得谈论的事情。但直到他来到这里，他才知道这对一个人来说到底是怎样的打击。然而，他还远远看不到自己未来的轨迹，可能还需要一两年的时间，他才能认为自己的人生已经开始了。这个秘密就在于他的事业和性格中带有一种鲁莽的色彩，因为他觉得由于家庭的偏见，他被迫错过了自己真正的命运。

‘Don’t you think ‘twould have been better for us to wait till you were quite settled in your midland farm?’ she once asked timidly. (A midland farm was the idea just then.)
“你不觉得‘等你在米德兰农场安定下来之后我们会更好吗？’她有一次胆怯地问道。 （米德兰农场是当时的想法。）

‘To tell the truth, my Tess, I don’t like you to be left anywhere away from my protection and sympathy.’
“说实话，我的苔丝，我不喜欢你离开我的保护和同情。”

The reason was a good one, so far as it went. His influence over her had been so marked that she had caught his manner and habits, his speech and phrases, his likings and his aversions. And to leave her in farmland would be to let her slip back again out of accord with him. He wished to have her under his charge for another reason. His parents had naturally desired to see her once at least before he carried her off to a distant settlement, English or colonial; and as no opinion of theirs was to be allowed to change his intention, he judged that a couple of months’ life with him in lodgings whilst seeking for an advantageous opening would be of some social assistance to her at what she might feel to be a trying ordeal—her presentation to his mother at the Vicarage.
就目前而言，这个理由是一个很好的理由。他对她的影响如此之大，以至于她已经了解了他的举止和习惯、他的言语和措辞、他的喜好和厌恶。而把她留在农田里，就等于让她再次与他格格不入。他想要将她收在自己手下还有另外一个原因。在他把她带到遥远的英国或殖民地定居点之前，他的父母自然希望至少能见到她一次。由于他们的任何意见都不允许改变他的意图，他判断，在寻求有利空缺的同时，与他一起在宿舍生活几个月，这对她来说可能会有所帮助，她可能会觉得这是一个社会援助。尝试磨难——她在牧师住宅向他母亲介绍。

Next, he wished to see a little of the working of a flour-mill, having an idea that he might combine the use of one with corn-growing. The proprietor of a large old water-mill at Wellbridge—once the mill of an Abbey—had offered him the inspection of his time-honoured mode of procedure, and a hand in the operations for a few days, whenever he should choose to come. Clare paid a visit to the place, some few miles distant, one day at this time, to inquire particulars, and returned to Talbothays in the evening. She found him determined to spend a short time at the Wellbridge flour-mills. And what had determined him? Less the opportunity of an insight into grinding and bolting than the casual fact that lodgings were to be obtained in that very farmhouse which, before its mutilation, had been the mansion of a branch of the d’Urberville family. This was always how Clare settled practical questions; by a sentiment which had nothing to do with them. They decided to go immediately after the wedding, and remain for a fortnight, instead of journeying to towns and inns.
接下来，他希望参观一下面粉厂的运作情况，并想到可以将面粉厂的使用与玉米种植结合起来。韦尔布里奇的一座大型旧水磨坊（曾经是一座修道院的磨坊）的业主让他检查其历史悠久的程序模式，并在几天内帮助他进行操作，无论何时他选择来。一天的这个时候，克莱尔前往几英里外的地方询问详情，并于晚上返回塔尔博塞斯。她发现他决心在韦尔布里奇面粉厂短暂停留。是什么决定了他？与其说是深入了解磨削和螺栓连接的机会，不如说是一个偶然的事实，那就是在这座农舍里找到住所，在它被毁坏之前，这里曾是德伯维尔家族一个分支的宅邸。克莱尔总是这样解决实际问题。一种与他们无关的情绪。他们决定婚礼结束后立即出发，并停留两周，而不是前往城镇和旅馆。

‘Then we will start off to examine some farms on the other side of London that I have heard of,’ he said, ‘and by March or April we will pay a visit to my father and mother.’
“然后我们将开始考察我听说过的伦敦另一边的一些农场，”他说，“到三月或四月，我们将拜访我的父母。”

Questions of procedure such as these arose and passed, and the day, the incredible day, on which she was to become his, loomed large in the near future. The thirty-first of December, New Year’s Eve, was the date. His wife, she said to herself. Could it ever be? Their two selves together, nothing to divide them, every incident shared by them; why not? And yet why?
诸如此类的程序问题出现并过去，而在不久的将来，她将成为他的那一天，令人难以置信的一天，迫在眉睫。十二月三十一日，即除夕夜。他的妻子，她对自己说。可能会这样吗？他们两个人在一起，没有什么可以将他们分开，每件事都是他们共同经历的；为什么不？但为什么呢？

One Sunday morning Izz Huett returned from church, and spoke privately to Tess.
一个周日早上，伊兹·休特从教堂回来，私下与苔丝交谈。

‘You was not called home this morning.’
“今天早上你没有被叫回家。”

‘What?’
'什么？'

‘It should ha’ been the first time of asking to-day,’ she answered, looking quietly at Tess. ‘You meant to be married New Year’s Eve, deary?’
“今天应该是第一次问。”她回答道，静静地看着苔丝。 “亲爱的，你打算在除夕夜结婚吗？”

The other returned a quick affirmative.
对方很快就给出了肯定的答复。

‘And there must be three times of asking. And now there be only two Sundays left between.’
‘而且必须问三遍。现在只剩下两个周日了。”

Tess felt her cheek paling; Izz was right; of course there must be three. Perhaps he had forgotten! If so, there must be a week’s postponement, and that was unlucky. How could she remind her lover? She who had been so backward was suddenly fired with impatience and alarm lest she should lose her dear prize.
苔丝感到自己的脸颊变得苍白。伊兹是对的；当然必须有三个。也许他已经忘记了！如果是这样的话，肯定要推迟一周，那就不吉利了。她要如何提醒自己的爱人呢？本来如此落后的她突然变得不耐烦和惊慌，生怕失去她珍贵的奖品。

A natural incident relieved her anxiety. Izz mentioned the omission of the banns to Mrs Crick, and Mrs Crick assumed a matron’s privilege of speaking to Angel on the point.
一件自然的事情缓解了她的焦虑。伊兹向克里克夫人提到了禁令的遗漏，克里克夫人以主妇的特权与安吉尔谈论了这一点。

‘Have ye forgot ‘em, Mr Clare? The banns, I mean.’
“你忘了他们吗，克莱尔先生？我的意思是禁令。

‘No, I have not forgot ‘em,’ says Clare.
“不，我没有忘记他们，”克莱尔说。

As soon as he caught Tess alone he assured her:
当他发现苔丝独自一人时，他向她保证：

‘Don’t let them tease you about the banns. A licence will be quieter for us, and I have decided on a licence without consulting you. So if you go to church on Sunday morning you will not hear your own name, if you wished to.’
“别让他们拿禁令来取笑你。许可证对我们来说会更安静，我在没有咨询您的情况下就决定了许可证。因此，如果你周日早上去教堂，你将不会听到自己的名字，如果你愿意的话。

‘I didn’t wish to hear it, dearest,’ she said proudly.
“我不想听到这个，亲爱的，”她自豪地说。

But to know that things were in train was an immense relief to Tess notwithstanding, who had well-nigh feared that somebody would stand up and forbid the banns on the ground of her history. How events were favouring her!
不过，知道一切都在进行中，苔丝还是松了口气，她几乎担心有人会站出来，以她的历史为由禁止禁令。事态对她多么有利啊！

‘I don’t quite feel easy,’ she said to herself. ‘All this good fortune may be scourged out of me afterwards by a lot of ill. That’s how Heaven mostly does. I wish I could have had common banns!’
“我感觉不太轻松，”她对自己说。 “此后，我的所有这些好运可能会因许多不幸而消失。天堂大多就是这样做的。我希望我能有共同的禁令！

But everything went smoothly. She wondered whether he would like her to be married in her present best white frock, or if she ought to buy a new one. The question was set at rest by his forethought, disclosed by the arrival of some large packages addressed to her. Inside them she found a whole stock of clothing, from bonnet to shoes, including a perfect morning costume, such as would well suit the simple wedding they planned. He entered the house shortly after the arrival of the packages, and heard her upstairs undoing them.
但一切都很顺利。她想知道他是否希望她穿着她现在最好的白色连衣裙结婚，或者她是否应该买一件新的。这个问题因他的深思熟虑而得到解决，一些寄给她的大包裹的到来揭示了这一点。她在里面发现了一整套衣服，从帽子到鞋子，包括一套完美的晨装，非常适合他们计划的简单婚礼。包裹到达后不久，他进了屋，听到她在楼上拆包裹的声音。

A minute later she came down with a flush on her face and tears in her eyes.
一分钟后，她倒下了，满脸通红，眼里含着泪水。

‘How thoughtful you’ve been!’ she murmured, her cheek upon his shoulder. ‘Even to the gloves and handkerchief! My own love—how good, how kind!’
“你想得真周到！”她低声说道，脸颊靠在他的肩膀上。 “连手套和手帕都给了！”我自己的爱——多么美好，多么仁慈啊！

‘No, no, Tess; just an order to a tradeswoman in London—nothing more.’
“不，不，苔丝；只是给伦敦一位女商人的订单——仅此而已。”

And to divert her from thinking too highly of him, he told her to go upstairs, and take her time, and see if it all fitted; and, if not, to get the village sempstress to make a few alterations.
为了转移她对他的过高评价，他让她上楼，慢慢来，看看一切是否合适；如果没有，请让村里的女裁缝做一些改变。

She did return upstairs, and put on the gown. Alone, she stood for a moment before the glass looking at the effect of her silk attire; and then there came into her head her mother’s ballad of the mystic robe—
她确实回到了楼上，穿上了礼服。她独自在镜子前站了一会儿，观察丝绸服装的效果。然后她的脑海里浮现出她母亲那首关于神秘长袍的歌谣——

That never would become that wife
那永远不会成为那个妻子

 That had once done amiss,
曾经做过的错事，

which Mrs Durbeyfield had used to sing to her as a child, so blithely and so archly, her foot on the cradle, which she rocked to the tune. Suppose this robe should betray her by changing colour, as her robe had betrayed Queen Guinevere. Since she had been at the dairy she had not once thought of the lines till now.
小时候，德北菲尔德夫人常常给她唱这首歌，她的脚踩在摇篮上，随着曲调摇晃着，唱得那么欢快，那么调皮。假设这件长袍因颜色的变化而背叛了她，就像她的长袍背叛了桂妮薇儿王后一样。自从她来到牛奶场以来，她到现在为止还没有想过这些台词。

XXXIII
三十三

Angel felt that he would like to spend a day with her before the wedding, somewhere away from the dairy, as a last jaunt in her company while there were yet mere lover and mistress; a romantic day, in circumstances that would never be repeated; with that other and greater day beaming close ahead of them. During the preceding week, therefore, he suggested making a few purchases in the nearest town, and they started together.
安吉尔觉得他想在婚礼前和她一起度过一天，远离乳制品厂，作为在她还只是情人和情妇的时候陪伴她的最后一次短途旅行；浪漫的一天，在永远不会重复的情况下；另一个更伟大的日子即将来临。因此，在前一周，他建议去最近的城镇购买一些东西，然后他们就一起开始了。

Clare’s life at the dairy had been that of a recluse in respect the world of his own class. For months he had never gone near a town, and, requiring no vehicle, had never kept one, hiring the dairyman’s cob or gig if he rode or drove. They went in the gig that day.
克莱尔在奶牛场的生活是一种尊重自己阶级世界的隐士生活。几个月来，他从未靠近过一个城镇，而且不需要车辆，也从未拥有过一辆，如果他骑车或开车，就租用奶牛场老板的小车或马车。那天他们参加了演出。

And then for the first time in their lives they shopped as partners in one concern. It was Christmas Eve, with its loads a holly and mistletoe, and the town was very full of strangers who had come in from all parts of the country on account of the day. Tess paid the penalty of walking about with happiness superadded to beauty on her countenance by being much stared at as she moved amid them on his arm.
然后，他们有生以来第一次作为同一个企业的合作伙伴进行购物。那是圣诞节前夕，到处都是冬青和槲寄生，镇上挤满了从全国各地赶来的陌生人。苔丝在他的手臂上走来走去，脸上洋溢着幸福和美丽，但她却受到了很多人的注视，她为此付出了代价。

In the evening they returned to the inn at which they had put up, and Tess waited in the entry while Angel went to see the horse and gig brought to the door. The general sitting-room was full of guests, who were continually going in and out. As the door opened and shut each time for the passage of these, the light within the parlour fell full upon Tess’s face. Two men came out and passed by her among the rest. One of them had stared her up and down in surprise, and she fancied he was a Trantridge man, though that village lay so many miles off that Trantridge folk were rarities here.
晚上，他们回到了住处的客栈，苔丝在入口处等待，安吉尔则去看马匹和马车被送到门口。大厅里挤满了客人，不断地进进出出。每次门打开又关上，客厅里的光线就照在苔丝的脸上。两个男人走了出来，从她身边走过。其中一个人惊讶地上下打量着她，她猜想他是特兰特里奇人，尽管那个村庄离这里很远，所以特兰特里奇人在这里很少见。

‘A comely maid that,’ said the other.
“真是个漂亮的女仆，”另一个说。

‘True, comely enough. But unless I make a great mistake—‘ And he negatived the remainder of the definition forthwith.
“确实，够漂亮。”但除非我犯了一个很大的错误——”他立即否定了定义的其余部分。

Clare had just returned from the stable-yard, and, confronting the man on the threshold, heard the words, and saw the shrinking of Tess. The insult to her stung him to the quick, and before he had considered anything at all he struck the man on the chin with the full force of his fist, sending him staggering backwards into the passage.
克莱尔刚刚从马厩院子回来，在门槛上对着那个人，听到了这句话，看到苔丝退缩了。对她的侮辱让他感到刺痛，还没来得及考虑什么，他就用拳头猛击那人的下巴，把他打得踉踉跄跄地倒退到通道里。

The man recovered himself, and seemed inclined to come on, and Clare, stepping outside the door, put himself in a posture of defence. But his opponent began to think better of the matter. He looked anew at Tess as he passed her, and said to Clare—
那人恢复了平静，似乎想要上前，克莱尔走出门外，摆出了防御的姿势。但他的对手开始更好地思考这件事。当他经过苔丝时，他重新看了她一眼，对克莱尔说——

‘I beg pardon, sir; ‘twas a complete mistake. I thought she was another woman, forty miles from here.’
“请原谅，先生；这完全是一个错误。我以为她是另一个女人，距离这里四十英里。

Clare, feeling then that he had been too hasty, and that he was, moreover, to blame for leaving her standing in an inn-passage, did what he usually did in such cases, gave the man five shillings to plaster the blow; and thus they parted, bidding each other a pacific good night. As soon as Clare had taken the reins from the ostler, and the young couple had driven off, the two men went in the other direction.
克莱尔当时觉得他太草率了，此外，他也应该为把她留在旅馆的通道里而受到责备，于是做了他在这种情况下通常会做的事情，给了这个男人五先令来弥补这一打击；然后，他又给了这个男人五先令，让他挨打。他们就这样分手了，平静地道了晚安。克莱尔一接过马夫的缰绳，这对年轻夫妇就开车离开了，两人就朝另一个方向走去。

‘And was it a mistake?’ said the second one.
“这是一个错误吗？”第二个说。

‘Not a bit of it. But I didn’t want to hurt the gentleman’s feelings—not I.’
‘一点也没有。但我不想伤害这位先生的感情——我不想。”

In the meantime the lovers were driving onward.
与此同时，这对恋人继续前行。

‘Could we put off our wedding till a little later?’ Tess asked in a dry dull voice. ‘I mean if we wished?’
“我们可以把婚礼推迟一会儿吗？”苔丝用干巴巴的声音问道。 “我的意思是如果我们愿意的话？”

‘No, my love. Calm yourself. Do you mean that the fellow may have time to summon me for assault?’ he asked good-humouredly.
‘不，我的爱人。你冷静一下。你的意思是，那家伙可能有时间传唤我来袭击我？”他幽默地问道。

‘No—I only meant—if it should have to be put off.’
“不——我只是说——如果必须推迟的话。”

What she meant was not very clear, and he directed her to dismiss such fancies from her mind, which she obediently did as well as she could. But she was grave, very grave, all the way home; till she thought, ‘We shall go away, a very long distance, hundreds of miles from these parts, and such as this can never happen again, and no ghost of the past reach there.’
她的意思不是很清楚，他指示她把这些幻想从脑海中剔除，她乖乖地尽力了。但她在回家的路上一直很严肃，非常严肃。直到她想，“我们要离开，很远的距离，距离这些地方数百英里，这样的事情永远不会再发生，过去的幽灵也不会到达那里。”

They parted tenderly that night on the landing, and Clare ascended to his attic. Tess sat up getting on with some little requisites, lest the few remaining days should not afford sufficient time. While she sat she heard a noise in Angel’s room overhead, a sound of thumping and struggling. Everybody else in the house was asleep, and in her anxiety lest Clare should be ill she ran up and knocked at his door, and asked him what was the matter.
那天晚上，他们在楼梯平台上温柔地分手，克莱尔登上了他的阁楼。苔丝坐了起来，继续处理一些小必需品，以免剩下的几天时间不够。当她坐着的时候，她听到头顶安吉尔的房间里有声音，一种重击和挣扎的声音。房子里的其他人都睡着了，她担心克莱尔生病了，她跑过去敲他的门，问他出了什么事。

‘Oh, nothing, dear,’ he said from within. ‘I am so sorry I disturbed you! But the reason is rather an amusing one: I fell asleep and dreamt that I was fighting that fellow again who insulted you, and the noise you heard was my pummelling away with my fists at my portmanteau, which I pulled out to-day for packing. I am occasionally liable to these freaks in my sleep. Go to bed and think of it no more.’
“哦，没什么，亲爱的，”他在里面说道。 ‘非常抱歉打扰你了！但原因很有趣：我睡着了，梦见我又和那个侮辱你的家伙打架了，你听到的声音是我用拳头敲打我今天拿出来打包的行李箱。 。我偶尔会在睡梦中遇到这些怪事。去睡觉吧，别再想这件事了。

This was the last drachm required to turn the scale of her indecision. Declare the past to him by word of mouth she could not; but there was another way. She sat down and wrote on the four pages of a note-sheet a succinct narrative of those events of three or four years ago, put it into an envelope, and directed it to Clare. Then, lest the flesh should again be weak, she crept upstairs without any shoes and slipped the note under his door.
这是扭转她犹豫不决的局面所需的最后一个德拉克姆。她无法通过口头向他诉说过去；但还有另一种方法。她坐下来，在四页便条纸上简洁地记下了三四年前的那些事情，装进一个信封，交给了克莱尔。然后，为了避免肉体再次变得虚弱，她没穿鞋就爬上楼，把纸条塞进了他的门缝里。

Her night was a broken one, as it well might be, and she listened for the first faint noise overhead. It came, as usual; he descended, as usual. She descended. He met her at the bottom of the stairs and kissed her. Surely it was as warmly as ever!
她的夜晚很糟糕，很可能是这样，她倾听头顶上第一声微弱的声音。它来了，像往常一样；他像往常一样下了山。她下降了。他在楼梯底下遇见了她并吻了她。果然还是一如既往的温暖啊！

He looked a little disturbed and worn, she thought. But he said not a word to her about her revelation, even when they were alone. Could he have had it? Unless he began the subject she felt that she could say nothing. So the day passed, and it was evident that whatever he thought he meant to keep to himself. Yet he was frank and affectionate as before. Could it be that her doubts were childish? that he forgave her; that he loved her for what she was, just as she was, and smiled at her disquiet as at a foolish nightmare? Had he really received her note? She glanced into his room, and could see nothing of it. It might be that he forgave her. But even if he had not received it she had a sudden enthusiastic trust that he surely would forgive her.
她想，他看起来有点不安和疲惫。但他对她的启示只字不提，即使他们单独在一起时也是如此。他能拥有它吗？除非他开始这个话题，否则她觉得自己无话可说。日子就这样过去了，很明显，无论他想什么，他都打算保守秘密。但他还是一如既往的坦诚和深情。难道她的怀疑是幼稚的？他原谅了她；他爱她本来的样子，就像她本来的样子，对她的不安微笑，就像对愚蠢的噩梦微笑？他真的收到她的字条了吗？她往他的房间里看了一眼，什么也看不见。也许他已经原谅了她。但即使他没有收到，她也突然热切地相信他一定会原谅她。

Every morning and night he was the same, and thus New Year’s Eve broke—the wedding day.
每天早上和晚上他都是一样的，于是除夕夜——结婚的日子。

The lovers did not rise at milking-time, having through the whole of this last week of their sojourn at the dairy been accorded something of the position of guests, Tess being honoured with a room of her own. When they arrived downstairs at breakfast-time they were surprised to see what effects had been produced in the large kitchen for their glory since they had last beheld it. At some unnatural hour of the morning the dairyman had caused the yawning chimney-corner to be whitened, and the brick hearth reddened, and a blazing yellow damask blower to be hung across the arch in place of the old grimy blue cotton one with a black sprig pattern which had formerly done duty there. This renovated aspect of what was the focus indeed of the room on a full winter morning threw a smiling demeanour over the whole apartment.
挤奶的时候，这对恋人没有起床，在他们逗留牛奶场的最后一周里，他们都被赋予了某种客人的地位，苔丝也很荣幸地拥有了自己的房间。当他们在早餐时间到达楼下时，他们惊讶地发现自从他们上次看到大厨房以来，他们为自己的荣耀而产生的效果。早上某个不自然的时刻，奶牛场老板让打哈欠的烟囱角变白，砖砌的壁炉变红，拱门上挂了一台炽热的黄色锦缎鼓风机，取代了旧的肮脏的蓝色棉质鼓风机，上面有黑色的布。以前在那里工作过的小树枝图案。在整个冬天的早晨，这个装修过的房间确实是房间的焦点，给整个公寓带来了微笑的风度。

‘I was determined to do summat in honour o’t’, said the dairyman. ‘And as you wouldn’t hear of my gieing a rattling good randy wi’ fiddles and bass-viols complete, as we should ha’ done in old times, this was all I could think o’ as a noiseless thing.’
奶牛场老板说：“我决心做一次总结，以纪念他。” “你不会听到我用小提琴和低音提琴演奏一首嘎嘎作响的好兰迪音乐，就像我们过去应该做的那样，这就是我所能想到的无声的事情。”

Tess’s friends lived so far off that none could conveniently have been present at the ceremony, even had any been asked; but as a fact nobody was invited from Marlott. As for Angel’s family, he had written and duly informed them of the time, and assured them that he would be glad to see one at least of them there for the day if he would like to come. His brothers had not replied at all, seeming to be indignant with him; while his father and mother had written a rather sad letter, deploring his precipitancy in rushing into marriage, but making the best of the matter by saying that, though a dairywoman was the last daughter-in-law they could have expected, their son had arrived at an age which he might be supposed to be the best judge.
苔丝的朋友住得很远，即使有人邀请，也没有人能方便地出席仪式。但事实上，马洛特没有邀请任何人。至于安吉尔的家人，他已经写信并及时通知了他们时间，并向他们保证，如果他愿意来的话，他会很高兴至少在当天见到他们中的一个人。他的兄弟们根本没有回答，似乎在生他的气。虽然他的父母写了一封相当悲伤的信，对他仓促结婚表示遗憾，但还是充分利用了这一点，说虽然挤奶女工是他们最不可能想到的儿媳妇，但他们的儿子到了他可能被认为是最好的判断者的年龄。

This coolness in his relations distressed Clare less than it would have done had he been without the grand card with which he meant to surprise them ere long. To produce Tess, fresh from the dairy, as a d’Urberville and a lady, he had felt to be temerarious and risky; hence he had concealed her lineage till such time as, familiarized with worldly ways by a few months’ travel and reading with him, he could take her on a visit to his parents and impart the knowledge while triumphantly producing her as worthy of such an ancient line. It was a pretty lover’s dream, if no more. Perhaps Tess’s lineage had more value for himself than for anybody in the world beside.
他的关系中的这种冷漠让克莱尔感到不那么痛苦，如果他没有这张他打算不久之后给他们带来惊喜的大牌的话，克莱尔会感到不那么痛苦。他觉得把刚从牛奶场出来的苔丝塑造成德伯维尔家族的一位淑女，是一件鲁莽而冒险的事情。因此，他隐瞒了她的血统，直到通过几个月的旅行和阅读熟悉了世俗的方式，他可以带她去拜访他的父母，传授知识，同时胜利地将她培养成配得上这样一个古老的人。线。如果不是的话，那也是一个美丽的情人的梦想。也许苔丝的血统对他自己来说比对世界上任何人都更有价值。

Her perception that Angel’s bearing towards her still remained in no whit altered by her own communication rendered Tess guiltily doubtful if he could have received it. She rose from breakfast before he had finished, and hastened upstairs. It had occurred to her to look once more into the queer gaunt room which had been Clare’s den, or rather eyrie, for so long, and climbing the ladder she stood at the open door of the apartment, regarding and pondering. She stooped to the threshold of the doorway, where she had pushed in the note two or three days earlier in such excitement. The carpet reached close to the sill, and under the edge of the carpet she discerned the faint white margin of the envelope containing her letter to him, which he obviously had never seen, owing to her having in her haste thrust it beneath the carpet as well as beneath the door.
苔丝认为安吉尔对她的态度仍然没有因她自己的交流而改变，这让苔丝内疚地怀疑他是否能收到它。他还没吃完，她就起身吃完早饭，急忙上楼。她突然想起要再次看看这个奇怪而憔悴的房间，长期以来，这里一直是克莱尔的巢穴，或者更确切地说是鹰巢，她爬上梯子，站在公寓敞开的门前，凝视着并沉思着。她弯腰走到门口，两三天前她兴奋地把纸条塞到了门口。地毯靠近窗台，在地毯的边缘下，她看到信封上有淡淡的白色边缘，里面装着她给他的信，他显然从未见过这封信，因为她匆忙地将信塞到了地毯下面。以及门下面。

With a feeling of faintness she withdrew the letter. There it was—sealed up, just as it had left her hands. The mountain had not yet been removed. She could not let him read it now, the house being in full bustle of preparation; and descending to her own room she destroyed the letter there.
她带着一种微弱的感觉收回了信。它就在那里——密封起来，就像它离开她的手一样。这座山还没有移走。现在她不能让他读这本书，因为家里正忙着准备。她下楼回到自己的房间，销毁了那封信。

She was so pale when he saw her again that he felt quite anxious. The incident of the misplaced letter she had jumped at as if it prevented a confession; but she knew in her conscience that it need not; there was still time. Yet everything was in a stir; there was coming and going; all had to dress, the dairyman and Mrs Crick having been asked to accompany them as witnesses; and reflection or deliberate talk was well-nigh impossible. The only minute Tess could get to be alone with Clare was when they met upon the landing.
当他再次见到她时，她脸色苍白，让他感到很焦虑。信被放错地方的事件让她欣喜若狂，仿佛这阻止了她的坦白。但她的良心知道，这并不需要；还有时间。然而一切都处于混乱之中。人来人往；所有人都必须穿好衣服，奶牛场老板和克里克夫人被要求作为证人陪同他们。反思或深思熟虑的谈话几乎是不可能的。苔丝唯一能和克莱尔单独相处的那一刻是他们在楼梯平台相遇的时候。

‘I am so anxious to talk to you—I want to confess all my faults and blunders!’ she said with attempted lightness.
“我很想和你谈谈——我想承认我所有的错误和错误！”她试图轻松地说。

‘No, no—we can’t have faults talked of—you must be deemed perfect to-day at least, my Sweet!’ he cried. ‘We shall have plenty of time, hereafter, I hope, to talk over our failings. I will confess mine at the same time.’
“不，不——我们不能谈论任何缺点——至少今天你必须被认为是完美的，我的宝贝！”他喊道。 “我希望，今后我们将有足够的时间来讨论我们的失败。我会同时承认我的。

‘But it would be better for me to do it now, I think, so that you could not say—‘
“但我认为现在就做会更好，这样你就不会说——”

‘Well, my quixotic one, you shall tell me anything—say, as soon as we are settled in our lodging; not now. I, too, will tell you my faults then. But do not let us spoil the day with them; they will be excellent matter for a dull time.’
“好吧，我的堂吉诃德式的家伙，你什么事情都可以告诉我——比如说，等我们在住所安顿下来之后；或者告诉我什么。”现在不要。到时候我也会告诉你我的错误。但不要让我们和他们一起破坏这一天；在无聊的时光里，它们将是极好的选择。

‘Then you don’t wish me to, dearest?’
“那你不希望我这么做吗，亲爱的？”

‘I do not, Tessy, really.’
“我不知道，泰西，真的。”

The hurry of dressing and starting left no time for more than this. Those words of his seemed to reassure her on further reflection. She was whirled onward through the next couple of critical hours by the mastering tide of her devotion to him, which closed up further meditation. Her one desire, so long resisted, to make herself his, to call him her lord, her own—then, if necessary, to die—had at last lifted her up from her plodding reflective pathway. In dressing, she moved about in a mental cloud of many-coloured idealities, which eclipsed all sinister contingencies by its brightness.
匆忙穿好衣服，出发，没有时间做更多的事情。他这句话，似乎让她再想一想，就安心了一些。在接下来的关键几个小时里，她对他的忠诚如潮水般推动着她向前迈进，这结束了进一步的冥想。她长期以来一直抵制的一个愿望，就是让自己成为他的主人，称他为她的主人，她自己的——然后，如果有必要的话，去死——终于把她从缓慢的反思之路上拉了起来。在着装方面，她的思想充满了五彩斑斓的理想，它的明亮使所有险恶的意外事件黯然失色。

The church was a long way off, and they were obliged to drive, particularly as it was winter. A closed carriage was ordered from a roadside inn, a vehicle which had been kept there ever since the old days of post-chaise travelling. It had stout wheel-spokes, and heavy felloes a great curved bed, immense straps and springs, and a pole like a battering-ram. The postilion was a venerable ‘boy’ of sixty—a martyr to rheumatic gout, the result of excessive exposure in youth, counter-acted by strong liquors—who had stood at inn-doors doing nothing for the whole five-and-twenty years that had elapsed since he had no longer been required to ride professionally, as if expecting the old times to come back again. He had a permanent running wound on the outside of his right leg, originated by the constant bruisings of aristocratic carriage-poles during the many years that he had been in regular employ at the King’s Arms, Casterbridge.
教堂距离很远，他们不得不开车，尤其是在冬天。从路边的一家旅馆订购了一辆封闭式马车，这辆车从过去的马车旅行以来就一直停在那里。它有粗壮的轮辐，沉重的家伙，一张巨大的弧形床，巨大的带子和弹簧，还有一根像攻城锤一样的杆子。侍者是一位六十岁的令人尊敬的“男孩”——风湿性痛风的烈士，这是年轻时过度暴露的结果，再加上烈酒的影响——他站在旅馆门口，无所事事了整整五年二十年。自从不再要求他专业骑车以来，这已经过去了，仿佛期待着旧时光再次回来。他的右腿外侧有一道永久性的伤口，这是他多年来在卡斯特桥国王武器公司受雇时经常受到贵族马车杆的擦伤造成的。

Inside this cumbrous and creaking structure, and behind this decayed conductor, the partie carrée took their seats—the bride and bridegroom and Mr and Mrs Crick. Angel would have liked one at least of his brothers to be present as groomsman, but their silence after his gentle hint to that effect by letter had signified that they did not care to come. They disapproved of the marriage, and could not be expected to countenance it. Perhaps it was as well that they could not be present. They were not worldly young fellows, but fraternizing with dairy-folk would have struck unpleasantly upon their biased niceness, apart from their views of the match.
在这座笨重且嘎吱作响的建筑内，在这位腐烂的指挥后面，派对方巾入座——新娘和新郎以及克里克先生和克里克夫人。安吉尔本来希望他的兄弟中至少有一个能作为伴郎出席，但在他写信温柔地暗示这一点后，他们的沉默表明他们不愿意来。他们不同意这桩婚姻，也不能指望他们会支持这桩婚姻。也许他们不能在场也好。他们不是世俗的年轻人，但除了他们对比赛的看法之外，与奶牛场的人友好相处也会对他们有偏见的友善造成不愉快的打击。

Upheld by the momentum of the time, Tess knew nothing of this, did not see anything, did not know the road they were taking to the church. She knew that Angel was close to her; all the rest was a luminous mist. She was a sort of celestial person, who owed her being to poetry—one of those classical divinities Clare was accustomed to talk to her about when they took their walks together.
在当时的势头下，苔丝对此一无所知，没有看到任何东西，也不知道他们去教堂的路。她知道天使就在她身边；其余的一切都是发光的雾气。她是一个神圣的人，她的存在归功于诗歌——克莱尔在他们一起散步时习惯与她谈论的古典神灵之一。

The marriage being by licence there were only a dozen or so of people in the church; had there been a thousand they would have produced no more effect upon her. They were at stellar distances from her present world. In the ecstatic solemnity with which she swore her faith to him the ordinary sensibilities of sex seemed a flippancy. At a pause in the service, while they were kneeling together, she unconsciously inclined herself towards him, so that her shoulder touched his arm; she had been frightened by a passing thought, and the movement had been automatic, to assure herself that he was really there, and to fortify her belief that his fidelity would be proof against all things.
婚礼是领证结婚，教堂里只有十几个人。即使有一千个，它们也不会再对她产生任何影响。他们与她现在的世界相距遥远。在她欣喜若狂、庄严地向他宣誓时，普通的性情感似乎显得轻率。仪式暂停时，当他们跪在一起时，她不自觉地向他倾斜，肩膀碰到了他的手臂；她被一闪而过的念头吓到了，动作是自动的，以确保他真的在那里，并强化她的信念，即他的忠诚将抵御一切。

Clare knew that she loved him—every curve of her form showed that— but he did not know at that time the full depth of her devotion, its single-mindedness, its meekness; what long-suffering it guaranteed, what honesty, what endurance, what good faith.
克莱尔知道她爱他——她身体的每一个曲线都表明了这一点——但当时他并不知道她的忠诚、专一和温顺的深度；它保证了何等的忍耐、何等的诚实、何等的忍耐、何等的善意。

As they came out of church the ringers swung the bells off their rests, and a modest peal of three notes broke forth—that limited amount of expression having been deemed sufficient by the church builders for the joys of such a small parish. Passing by the tower with her husband on the path to the gate she could feel the vibrant air humming round them from the louvred belfry in the circle of sound, and it matched the highly-charged mental atmosphere in which she was living.
当他们走出教堂时，敲钟人把钟从休息处摇下来，发出三声温和的钟声——教堂建造者认为，有限的表达量足以让这么小的教区带来欢乐。与丈夫在通往大门的路上经过塔楼时，她能感觉到周围充满活力的空气从音圈中的百叶窗钟楼中嗡嗡作响，这与她所生活的高度紧张的精神氛围相匹配。

This condition of mind, wherein she felt glorified by an irradiation not her own, like the angel whom St John saw in the sun, lasted till the sound of the church bells had died away, and the emotions of the wedding-service had calmed down. Her eyes could dwell upon details more clearly now, and Mr and Mrs Crick having directed their own gig to be sent for them, to leave the carriage to the young couple, she observed the build and character of that conveyance for the first time. Sitting in silence she regarded it long.
这种心态，让她感到被不属于自己的光芒所荣耀，就像圣约翰在阳光下看到的天使一样，一直持续到教堂的钟声消失，婚礼仪式的情绪平静下来。 。她的眼睛现在可以更清楚地注视细节，克里克先生和克里克夫人指示他们自己的马车被派去接他们，把马车留给这对年轻夫妇，她第一次观察到那辆交通工具的构造和特征。她静静地坐着，凝视良久。

‘I fancy you seem oppressed, Tessy,’ said Clare.
“我觉得你看起来很压抑，泰西，”克莱尔说。

‘Yes,’ she answered, putting her hand to her brow. ‘I tremble at many things. It is all so serious, Angel. Among other things I seem to have seen this carriage before, to be very well acquainted with it. It is very odd—I must have seen it in a dream.’
“是的，”她回答道，把手放在额头上。 “我对很多事情都感到颤抖。一切都那么严重，天使。除此之外，我似乎以前见过这辆马车，对它很熟悉。这很奇怪——我一定是在梦里看到的。”

‘Oh—you have heard the legend of the d’Urberville Coach—that well-known superstition of this county about your family when they were very popular here; and this lumbering old thing reminds you of it.’
“哦——你听说过德伯维尔马车的传说——当你的家人在这里很受欢迎时，这是这个县众所周知的迷信；这个笨重的老东西让你想起了它。

‘I have never heard of it to my knowledge,’ said she. ‘What is the legend—may I know it?’
“据我所知，我从未听说过，”她说。 “传说是什么——我可以知道吗？”

‘Well—I would rather not tell it in detail just now. A certain d’Urberville of the sixteenth or seventeenth century committed a dreadful crime in his family coach; and since that time members of the family see or hear the old coach whenever—But I’ll tell you another day—it is rather gloomy. Evidently some dim knowledge of it has been brought back to your mind by the sight of this venerable caravan.’
‘好吧——我现在不想详细说出来。十六、十七世纪的某个德伯维尔在他的家庭马车上犯下了可怕的罪行。从那时起，家里的成员每当看到或听到老教练——但我改天告诉你——天气相当阴沉。显然，看到这支古老的商队，你的脑海中又恢复了一些模糊的知识。

‘I don’t remember hearing it before,’ she murmured. ‘Is it when we are going to die, Angel, that members of my family see it, or is it when we have committed a crime?’
“我不记得以前听过，”她低声说道。 “安吉尔，我的家人是在我们即将死去的时候看到的，还是在我们犯罪的时候看到的？”

‘Now, Tess!’
“现在，苔丝！”

He silenced her by a kiss.
他用一个吻让她安静下来。

By the time they reached home she was contrite and spiritless. She was Mrs Angel Clare, indeed, but had she any moral right to the name? Was she not more truly Mrs Alexander d’Urberville? Could intensity of love justify what might be considered in upright souls as culpable reticence? She knew not what was expected of women in such cases; and she had no counsellor.
当他们回到家时，她已经懊悔不已，精神萎靡。她确实是安吉尔·克莱尔夫人，但她对这个名字有道德权利吗？难道她不是更真实的亚历山大·德伯维尔夫人吗？强烈的爱能否证明在正直的灵魂中被认为是有罪的沉默是合理的？她不知道在这种情况下对女性的期望是什么；她没有辅导员。

However, when she found herself alone in her room for a few minutes—the last day this on which she was ever to enter it—she knelt down and prayed. She tried to pray to God, but it was her husband who really had her supplication. Her idolatry of this man was such that she herself almost feared it to be ill-omened. She was conscious of the notion expressed by Friar Laurence: ‘These violent delights have violent ends.’ It might be too desperate for human conditions—too rank, to wild, too deadly.
然而，当她发现自己独自在房间里呆了几分钟时——这是她进入房间的最后一天——她跪下祈祷。她试图向上帝祈祷，但真正得到她祈求的是她的丈夫。她对这个男人的崇拜如此之深，以至于她自己都几乎担心这是不祥之兆。她意识到劳伦斯修士表达的观点：“这些暴力的快乐会带来暴力的结局。”对于人类的处境来说，这可能太绝望了——太等级、太狂野、太致命。

‘O my love, why do I love you so!’ she whispered there alone; ‘for she you love is not my real self, but one in my image; the one I might have been!’
“哦，我的爱人，我为什么这么爱你！”她独自在那里低声说道； ‘因为你爱的她不是我的真实自我，而是我的形象中的一个；我可能就是那个人！

Afternoon came, and with it the hour for departure. They had decided to fulfil the plan of going for a few days to the lodgings in the old farmhouse near Wellbridge Mill, at which he meant to reside during his investigation of flour processes. At two o’clock there was nothing left to do but to start. All the servantry of the dairy were standing in the red-brick entry to see them go out, the dairyman and his wife following to the door. Tess saw her three chamber-mates in a row against the wall, pensively inclining their heads. She had much questioned if they would appear at the parting moment; but there they were, stoical and staunch to the last. She knew why the delicate Retty looked so fragile, and Izz so tragically sorrowful, and Marian so blank; and she forgot her own dogging shadow for a moment in contemplating theirs.
下午到了，也到了出发的时间。他们决定完成计划，去韦尔布里奇磨坊附近的旧农舍住几天，他打算在调查面粉加工期间住在那里。两点钟了，除了出发，别无他法。奶牛场的所有仆人都站在红砖入口处看着他们出去，奶牛场老板和他的妻子跟在门口。苔丝看到她的三个室友靠墙排成一排，若有所思地低着头。她很想知道他们是否会在临别时出现；但她没有想到。但他们就在那里，坚忍而坚定，直到最后。她知道为什么娇弱的雷蒂看起来如此脆弱，伊兹如此悲惨悲伤，而玛丽安如此茫然；在凝视他们的影子时，她暂时忘记了自己的影子。

She impulsively whispered to him—
她情不自禁地对他低声说道——

‘Will you kiss ‘em all, once, poor things, for the first and last time?’
“可怜的人们，你愿意亲吻它们一次吗？这是第一次也是最后一次吗？”

Clare had not the least objection to such a farewell formality—which was all that it was to him—and as he passed them he kissed them in succession where they stood, saying ‘Goodbye’ to each as he did so. When they reached the door Tess femininely glanced back to discern the effect of that kiss of charity; there was no triumph in her glance, as there might have been. If there had it would have disappeared when she saw how moved the girls all were. The kiss had obviously done harm by awakening feelings they were trying to subdue.
克莱尔对这样的告别仪式没有丝毫反对——这对他来说就是全部——当他经过他们时，他在他们站着的地方接连亲吻他们，同时向每个人说“再见”。当他们到达门口时，苔丝女性般地回头看了一眼，想看出那个慈善之吻的效果。她的眼神中并没有出现本来应该有的胜利。如果有的话，当她看到女孩们都如此感动时，它就会消失。这个吻显然因为唤醒了他们试图压抑的感情而造成了伤害。

Of all this Clare was unconscious. Passing on to the wicket-gate he shook hands with the dairyman and his wife, and expressed his last thanks to them for their attentions; after which there was a moment of silence before they had moved off. It was interrupted by the crowing of a cock. The white one with the rose comb had come and settled on the palings in front of the house, within a few yards of them, and his notes thrilled their ears through, dwindling away like echoes down a valley of rocks.
对于这一切，克莱尔浑然不觉。走到检票口时，他与奶牛场老板和他的妻子握手，并对他们的关心表示最后的感谢。他们沉默了一会儿才离开。这话被鸡鸣声打断了。带着玫瑰梳子的白色人已经来到了房子前面的栅栏上，距离他们只有几码，他的声音让他们的耳朵颤抖，就像岩石山谷中的回声一样逐渐消失。

‘Oh?’ said Mrs Crick. ‘An afternoon crow!’
“哦？”克里克夫人说。 “午后的乌鸦！”

Two men were standing by the yard gate, holding it open.
院门旁站着两个人，把门打开。

‘That’s bad,’ one murmured to the other, not thinking that the words could be heard by the group at the door-wicket.
“糟糕了。”一个人对另一个人低声说道，没想到这句话会被门口的那群人听到。

The cock crew again—straight towards Clare.
公鸡再次鸣叫——径直飞向克莱尔。

‘Well!’ said the dairyman.
“好吧！”奶牛场老板说。

‘I don’t like to hear him!’ said Tess to her husband. ‘Tell the man to drive on. Goodbye, goodbye!’
“我不喜欢听他说话！”苔丝对她丈夫说。 ‘告诉那个人继续开车。再见，再见！

The cock crew again.
公鸡又鸣叫了。

‘Hoosh! Just you be off, sir, or I’ll twist your neck!’ said the dairyman with some irritation, turning to the bird and driving him away. And to his wife as they went indoors: ‘Now, to think o’ that just to-day! I’ve not heard his crow of an afternoon all the year afore.’
'浓汤！你走开，先生，不然我就扭断你的脖子！”奶牛场老板有些恼怒地说，转向那只鸟，把他赶走了。当他们进屋时，他对妻子说：“现在想想吧，就在今天！”一整年我都没有听到他下午的叫声。

‘It only means a change in the weather,’ said she; ‘not what you think: ‘tis impossible!’
“这仅仅意味着天气的变化，”她说； “不是你想的那样：‘这是不可能的！’

XXXIV
三十四

They drove by the level road along the valley to a distance of a few miles, and, reaching Wellbridge, turned away from the village to the left, and over the great Elizabethan bridge which gives the place half its name. Immediately behind it stood the house wherein they had engaged lodgings, whose exterior features are so well known to all travellers through the Froom Valley; once portion of a fine manorial residence, and the property and seat of a d’Urberville, but since its partial demolition a farmhouse.
他们沿着山谷沿着平坦的道路行驶了几英里，到达韦尔布里奇后，离开村庄向左转，越过伊丽莎白女王时代的大桥，这个地方的一半名字就是由此而来。紧随其后的是他们租住的房子，其外观特征对于所有经过弗鲁姆山谷的旅行者来说都是众所周知的。曾经是精美庄园住宅的一部分，也是德伯维尔的财产和所在地，但自从部分拆除后变成了农舍。

‘Welcome to one of your ancestral mansions!’ said Clare as he handed her down. But he regretted the pleasantry; it was too near a satire.
“欢迎来到你祖传的宅邸之一！”克莱尔在他把她递下去时说道。但他对这种客套话感到后悔。这太接近讽刺了。

On entering they found that, though they had only engaged a couple of rooms, the farmer had taken advantage of their proposed presence during the coming days to pay a New Year’s visit to some friends, leaving a woman from a neighbouring cottage to minister to their few wants. The absoluteness of possession pleased them, and they realized it as the first moment of their experience under their own exclusive roof-tree.
进去后，他们发现，虽然他们只租了几个房间，但农夫已经利用他们计划在未来几天到访的机会去拜访一些朋友，并留下了一位来自邻近小屋的妇女来照顾他们。很少有人想要。拥有的绝对性让他们感到高兴，他们意识到这是他们在自己专属的屋顶树下体验的第一刻。

But he found that the mouldy old habitation somewhat depressed his bride. When the carriage was gone they ascended the stairs to wash their hands, the charwoman showing the way. On the landing Tess stopped and started.
但他发现发霉的旧居让他的新娘有些压抑。马车离开后，他们上楼梯去洗手，女佣人给他们带路。到了楼梯平台，苔丝停了下来，又开始了。

‘What’s the matter?’ said he.
“怎么了？”他说。

‘Those horrid women!’ she answered with a smile. ‘How they frightened me.’
“那些可怕的女人！”她微笑着回答。 “他们把我吓坏了。”

He looked up, and perceived two life-size portraits on panels built into the masonry. As all visitors to the mansion are aware, these paintings represent women of middle age, of a date some two hundred years ago, whose lineaments once seen can never be forgotten. The long pointed features, narrow eye, and smirk of the one, so suggestive of merciless treachery; the bill-hook nose, large teeth, and bold eye of the other suggesting arrogance to the point of ferocity, haunt the beholder afterwards in his dreams.
他抬起头，看到砖石砌板上有两幅真人大小的肖像。所有参观这座宅邸的人都知道，这些画作描绘的是大约两百多年前的中年妇女，她们的容貌一旦看过就永远不会忘记。长而尖的五官、狭长的眼睛和傻笑，让人联想到无情的背叛；另一个人的钩鼻子、大牙齿和大胆的眼睛暗示着傲慢到凶猛的程度，后来在梦中困扰着旁观者。

‘Whose portraits are those?’ asked Clare of the charwoman.
“那些肖像是谁的？”克莱尔问女佣。

‘I have been told by old folk that they were ladies of the d’Urberville family, the ancient lords of this manor,’ she said, ‘Owing to their being builded into the wall they can’t be moved away.’
“老人们告诉我，她们是这座庄园古代领主德伯维尔家族的女士，”她说，“由于她们被建在墙上，所以无法移走。”

The unpleasantness of the matter was that, in addition to their effect upon Tess, her fine features were unquestionably traceable in these exaggerated forms. He said nothing of this, however, and, regretting that he had gone out of his way to choose the house for their bridal time, went on into the adjoining room. The place having been rather hastily prepared for them, they washed their hands in one basin. Clare touched hers under the water.
事情的不愉快之处在于，除了对苔丝的影响之外，毫无疑问，她美丽的容貌也可以在这些夸张的形式中找到踪迹。然而，他对此只字未提，并为自己特意选择了结婚时的房子而感到遗憾，便走进了隔壁的房间。地方是匆忙准备好的，他们用一个盆洗手。克莱尔在水下摸了摸她的。

‘Which are my fingers and which are yours?’ he said, looking up. ‘They are very much mixed.’
“哪根是我的，哪根是你的？”他抬起头说道。 “他们的性格非常复杂。”

‘They are all yours,’ said she, very prettily, and endeavoured to be gayer than she was. He had not been displeased with her thoughtfulness on such an occasion; it was what every sensible woman would show: but Tess knew that she had been thoughtful to excess, and struggled against it.
“它们都是你的，”她非常漂亮地说，并努力表现得比以前更快乐。在这种情况下，他并没有对她的体贴感到不满。这是每个明智的女人都会表现出来的：但苔丝知道她考虑得太多了，并努力克服它。

The sun was so low on that short last afternoon of the year that it shone in through a small opening and formed a golden staff which stretched across to her skirt, where it made a spot like a paint-mark set upon her. They went into the ancient parlour to tea, and here they shared their first common meal alone. Such was their childishness, or rather his, that he found it interesting to use the same bread-and-butter plate as herself, and to brush crumbs from her lips with his own. He wondered a little that she did not enter into these frivolities with his own zest.
在这一年的最后一个短暂的下午，阳光如此之低，从一个小开口照进来，形成一根金色的手杖，一直延伸到她的裙子上，在她身上留下了一个像油漆痕迹一样的斑点。他们走进古老的客厅喝茶，在这里，他们独自享用了第一顿共同的饭菜。他们是如此幼稚，或者更确切地说是他的幼稚，以至于他发现与她使用同一个面包和黄油盘，并用自己的嘴唇擦掉她嘴唇上的面包屑很有趣。他有点奇怪她并没有以他自己的热情参与这些轻浮的事情。

Looking at her silently for a long time; ‘She is a dear dear Tess,’ he thought to himself, as one deciding on the true construction of a difficult passage. ‘Do I realize solemnly enough how utterly and irretrievably this little womanly thing is the creature of my good or bad faith and fortune? I think not. I think I could not, unless I were a woman myself. What I am in worldly estate, she is. What I become, she must become. What I cannot be, she cannot be. And shall I ever neglect her, or hurt her, or even forget to consider her? God forbid such a crime!’
默默地看着她很久； “她是一位亲爱的苔丝，”当他决定如何真正构建一段困难的段落时，他心里想。 “我是否足够严肃地认识到，这个女人般的小东西是我的善意或恶意和命运的产物，是多么彻底和不可挽回？”我想不是。我想我不能，除非我自己是个女人。我在世俗财产中的地位，她也是。我成为什么，她也必须成为什么。我不能成为的事，她也不能成为。我会忽视她，伤害她，甚至忘记考虑她吗？上帝禁止这样的罪行！”

They sat on over the tea-table waiting for their luggage, which the dairyman had promised to send before it grew dark. But evening began to close in, and the luggage did not arrive, and they had brought nothing more than they stood in. With the departure of the sun the calm mood of the winter day changed. Out of doors there began noises as of silk smartly rubbed; the restful dead leaves of the preceding autumn were stirred to irritated resurrection, and whirled about unwillingly, and tapped against the shutters. It soon began to rain.
他们坐在茶几旁等待行李，奶牛场老板答应在天黑之前寄出行李。但夜幕降临了，行李还没有到达，他们除了站着什么也没带。随着太阳的离去，冬日平静的心情发生了变化。门外传来丝绸摩擦的声音。去年秋天宁静的枯叶被激怒了，它们不情愿地旋转着，敲打着百叶窗。很快就开始下雨了。

‘That cock knew the weather was going to change,’ said Clare.
“那只公鸡知道天气会发生变化，”克莱尔说。

The woman who had attended upon them had gone home for the night, but she had placed candles upon the table, and now they lit them. Each candle-flame drew towards the fireplace.
照顾他们的女人已经回家过夜了，但她已经在桌子上放了蜡烛，现在他们把它们点燃了。每支蜡烛的火焰都向壁炉靠近。

‘These old houses are so draughty,’ continued Angel, looking at the flames, and at the grease guttering down the sides. ‘I wonder where that luggage is. We haven’t even a brush and comb.’
“这些老房子的通风太差了，”安吉尔继续说道，一边看着火焰，还有从侧面流下的油脂。 “我想知道那个行李在哪里。我们甚至没有刷子和梳子。

‘I don’t know,’ she answered, absent-minded.
“我不知道，”她心不在焉地回答。

‘Tess, you are not a bit cheerful this evening—not at all as you used to be. Those harridans on the panels upstairs have unsettled you. I am sorry I brought you here. I wonder if you really love me, after all?’
“苔丝，今晚你一点也不高兴——一点也不像以前。楼上面板上的那些恶棍让你感到不安。很抱歉我把你带到这里来。我想知道你到底是否真的爱我？

He knew that she did, and the words had no serious intent; but she was surcharged with emotion, and winced like a wounded animal. Though she tried not to shed tears, she could not help showing one or two.
他知道她是这么想的，而且这句话并没有什么严肃的意图。但她情绪激动，像受伤的动物一样畏缩着。尽管她努力不流泪，但还是忍不住流了一两滴眼泪。

‘I did not mean it!’ said he, sorry. ‘You are worried at not having your things, I know. I cannot think why old Jonathan has not come with them. Why, it is seven o’clock? Ah, there he is!’
“我不是故意的！”他抱歉地说。 “我知道你担心没有东西。”我不明白为什么老乔纳森没有和他们一起来。怎么，已经七点了？啊，他在那儿！

A knock had come to the door, and, there being nobody else to answer it, Clare went out. He returned to the room with a small package in his hand.
有人敲门，没有人应门，克莱尔就出去了。他回到房间，手里拿着一个小包裹。

‘It is not Jonathan, after all,’ he said.
“毕竟这不是乔纳森，”他说。

‘How vexing!’ said Tess.
“真烦人！”苔丝说。

The packet had been brought by a special messenger, who had arrived at Talbothays from Emminster Vicarage immediately after the departure of the married couple, and had followed them hither, being under injunction to deliver it into nobody’s hands but theirs. Clare brought it to the light. It was less than a foot long, sewed up in canvas, sealed in red wax with his father’s seal, and directed in his father’s hand to ‘Mrs Angel Clare.’
包裹是由一位特殊的信使送来的，他在这对夫妇离开后立即从埃明斯特牧师公馆抵达塔尔博塞斯，并跟随他们来到这里，并接到命令，除了他们自己之外，不得将包裹交给任何人。克莱尔将其曝光。它不到一英尺长，用帆布缝制，用红蜡封上他父亲的印章，在他父亲的手中指向“安吉尔·克莱尔夫人”。

‘It is a little wedding-present for you, Tess,’ said he, handing it to her. ‘How thoughtful they are!’
“这是给你的一份小结婚礼物，苔丝，”他说着把它递给了她。 “他们多么体贴啊！”

Tess looked a little flustered as she took it.
苔丝接过它时显得有些慌张。

‘I think I would rather have you open it, dearest,’ said she, turning over the parcel. ‘I don’t like to break those great seals; they look so serious. Please open it for me!’
“我想我宁愿让你打开它，亲爱的，”她一边说，一边把包裹翻过来。 “我不喜欢打破那些伟大的封印；他们看起来很严肃。请帮我打开它！

He undid the parcel. Inside was a case of morocco leather, on the top of which lay a note and a key.
他打开包裹。里面是一个摩洛哥皮革盒子，上面放着一张纸条和一把钥匙。

The note was for Clare, in the following words:
这张便条是写给克莱尔的，内容如下：

MY DEAR SON—
我亲爱的儿子-


Possibly you have forgotten that on the death of your godmother, Mrs Pitney, when you were a lad, she—vain, kind woman that she was—left to me a portion of the contents of her jewel-case in trust for your wife, if you should ever have one, as a mark of her affection for you and whomsoever you should choose. This trust I have fulfilled, and the diamonds have been locked up at my banker’s ever since. Though I feel it to be a somewhat incongruous act in the circumstances, I am, as you will see, bound to hand over the articles to the woman to whom the use of them for her lifetime will now rightly belong, and they are therefore promptly sent. They become, I believe, heirlooms, strictly speaking, according to the terms of your godmother’s will. The precise words of the clause that refers to this matter are enclosed.
也许你已经忘记了，在你的教母皮特尼夫人去世后，当你还是个小伙子时，她——她是个虚荣而善良的女人——把她珠宝盒里的一部分东西留给了我，委托给你的妻子，如果你应该拥有一个，作为她对你和你应该选择的人的感情的标志。我履行了这份信任，从那时起，这些钻石就被锁在我的银行家了。虽然我觉得在这种情况下这是有点不协调的行为，但正如你将看到的，我有义务将这些物品交给那个女人，这些物品现在应该属于她一生使用，因此它们会立即被发送。我相信，严格来说，根据你教母的遗嘱，它们将成为传家宝。附上涉及此事的条款的准确措辞。

‘I do remember,’ said Clare; ‘but I had quite forgotten.’
“我记得，”克莱尔说。 “但我完全忘记了。”

Unlocking the case, they found it to contain a necklace, with pendant, bracelets, and ear-rings; and also some other small ornaments.
打开箱子后，他们发现里面有一条项链、吊坠、手镯和耳环；还有一些其他的小装饰品。

Tess seemed afraid to touch them at first, but her eyes sparkled for a moment as much as the stones when Clare spread out the set.
苔丝一开始似乎不敢碰它们，但当克莱尔把它们摊开时，她的眼睛像石头一样闪闪发光。

‘Are they mine?’ she asked incredulously.
“它们是我的吗？”她难以置信地问。

‘They are, certainly,’ said he.
“当然是这样，”他说。

He looked into the fire. He remembered how, when he was a lad of fifteen, his godmother, the Squire’s wife—the only rich person with whom he had ever come in contact—had pinned her faith to his success; had prophesied a wondrous career for him. There had seemed nothing at all out of keeping with such a conjectured career in the storing up of these showy ornaments for his wife and the wives of her descendants. They gleamed somewhat ironically now. ‘Yet why?’ he asked himself. It was but a question of vanity throughout; and if that were admitted into one side of the equation it should be admitted into the other. His wife was a d’Urberville: whom could they become better than her?
他看着火。他记得，当他还是个十五岁的小伙子时，他的教母，即乡绅的妻子——他接触过的唯一的富人——是如何将她的信念寄托在他的成功上的。预言了他将会有一个奇妙的职业生涯。为他的妻子和她后裔的妻子储存这些华丽的装饰品，似乎与他推测的职业没有任何不相符的地方。现在他们的脸上闪现出几分讽刺的光芒。 “但是为什么呢？”他问自己。这始终只是一个虚荣心的问题。如果它被纳入等式的一侧，那么它也应该被纳入另一侧。他的妻子是德伯维尔家族的人：他们还能比她更好吗？

Suddenly he said with enthusiasm—
突然他热情地说——

‘Tess, put them on—put them on!’ And he turned from the fire to help her.
“苔丝，穿上——穿上！”他从火边转过身去帮助她。

But as if by magic she had already donned them—necklace, ear-rings, bracelets, and all.
但就像施了魔法一样，她已经戴上了它们——项链、耳环、手镯等等。

‘But the gown isn’t right, Tess,’ said Clare. ‘It ought to be a low one for a set of brilliants like that.’
“但是这件礼服不合适，苔丝，”克莱尔说。 “对于这样一套明亮式钻石来说，它应该是一个较低的价格。”

‘Ought it?’ said Tess.
“应该吗？”苔丝说。

‘Yes,’ said he.
“是的，”他说。

He suggested to her how to tuck in the upper edge of her bodice, so as to make it roughly approximate to the cut for evening wear; and when she had done this, and the pendant to the necklace hung isolated amid the whiteness of her throat, as it was designed to do, he stepped back to survey her.
他向她建议如何将紧身胸衣的上边缘塞进去，使其大致接近晚装的剪裁；当她完成这一切，项链的吊坠就像设计的那样孤立地挂在她洁白的喉咙中时，他退后一步打量着她。

‘My heavens,’ said Clare, ‘how beautiful you are!’
“天啊，”克莱尔说，“你真漂亮！”

As everybody knows, fine feathers make fine birds; a peasant girl but very moderately prepossessing to the casual observer in her simple condition and attire will bloom as an amazing beauty if clothed as a woman of fashion with the aids that Art can render; while the beauty of the midnight crush would often cut but a sorry figure if placed inside the field-woman’s wrapper upon a monotonous acreage of turnips on a dull day. He had never till now estimated the artistic excellence of Tess’s limbs and features.
众所周知，羽毛好，鸟好；羽毛好，鸟好。一个农家女孩，但她的简单条件和服装对不经意的观察者来说非常有吸引力，如果在艺术的帮助下打扮成一个时尚女人，她就会绽放出惊人的美丽；而在阴沉的日子里，如果把午夜的美丽放在田野妇女的茄衣里，放在单调的萝卜田上，往往会显得很遗憾。到目前为止，他从未评价过苔丝的四肢和五官的艺术卓越性。

‘If you were only to appear in a ball-room!’ he said. ‘But no—no, dearest; I think I love you best in the wing-bonnet and cotton-frock—yes, better than in this, well as you support these dignities.’
“如果你只是出现在舞厅就好了！”他说。 “但是不——不，亲爱的；我想我最喜欢戴翼帽和棉质连衣裙的你——是的，比这件更喜欢你，而且你也支持这些尊严。”

Tess’s sense of her striking appearance had given her a flush of excitement, which was yet not happiness.
苔丝对自己引人注目的外表感到兴奋不已，但这并不是幸福。

‘I’ll take them off,’ she said, ‘in case Jonathan should see me. They are not fit for me, are they? They must be sold, I suppose?’
“我会把它们脱掉，”她说，“以防乔纳森看到我。”他们不适合我，是吗？我想它们必须被卖掉？

‘Let them stay a few minutes longer. Sell them? Never. It would be a breach of faith.’
“让他们再多呆几分钟。”卖掉这些？绝不。这将是对信仰的违背。

Influenced by a second thought she readily obeyed. She had something to tell, and there might be help in these. She sat down with the jewels upon her; and they again indulged in conjectures as to where Jonathan could possibly be with their baggage. The ale they had poured out for his consumption when he came had gone flat with long standing.
受到第二个想法的影响，她欣然服从了。她有话要说，这些也许会有帮助。她坐下来，身上戴着珠宝。他们再次沉迷于猜测乔纳森和他们的行李可能在哪里。他来的时候，他们倒出来给他喝的麦芽酒已经放久了，已经没了。

Shortly after this they began supper, which was already laid on a side-table. Ere they had finished there was a jerk in the fire-smoke, the rising skein of which bulged out into the room, as if some giant had laid his hand on the chimney-top for a moment. It had been caused by the opening of the outer door. A heavy step was now heard in the passage, and Angel went out.
不久之后，他们开始吃晚饭，晚饭已经摆在边桌上了。还没等他们结束，火烟就猛烈地抽动了一下，升起的烟团向房间里凸出，仿佛某个巨人把手放在了烟囱顶上一会儿。这是由外门打开引起的。通道里传来一阵沉重的脚步声，安吉尔走了出去。

‘I couldn’ make nobody hear at all by knocking,’ apologized Jonathan Kail, for it was he at last; ‘and as’t was raining out I opened the door. I’ve brought the things, sir.’
“我敲门根本无法让任何人听到，”乔纳森·凯尔抱歉地说，因为终于是他了。 “外面下着雨，我打开了门。我已经把东西带来了，先生。”

‘I am very glad to see them. But you are very late.’
‘我很高兴见到他们。但你已经迟到了。”

‘Well, yes, sir.’
“嗯，是的，先生。”

There was something subdued in Jonathan Kail’s tone which had not been there in the day, and lines of concern were ploughed upon his forehead in addition to the lines of years. He continued—
乔纳森·凯尔的语气里有一种平日里没有的压抑感，额头上除了岁月的痕迹之外，还刻满了关切的皱纹。他继续-

‘We’ve all been gallied at the dairy at what might ha’ been a most terrible affliction since you and your Mis’ess—so to name her now—left us this a’ternoon. Perhaps you ha’nt forgot the cock’s afternoon crow?’
“自从你和你的小姐——现在就这么称呼她——今天下午离开我们以来，我们都在奶牛场遭受了最可怕的痛苦。”也许你还没有忘记公鸡午后的啼鸣？

‘Dear me;—what—‘
“天哪；——什么——”

‘Well, some says it do mane one thing, and some another; but what’s happened is that poor little Retty Priddle hev tried to drown herself.’
“嗯，有人说它做一件事，有人说它做另一件事；但发生的事情是，可怜的小雷蒂·普里德尔（Retty Priddle）试图淹死自己。

‘No! Really! Why, she bade us goodbye with the rest—‘
'不！真的吗！哎呀，她和我们其余的人告别了——”

‘Yes. Well, sir, when you and your Mis’ess—so to name what she lawful is—when you two drove away, as I say, Retty and Marian put on their bonnets and went out; and as there is not much doing now, being New Year’s Eve, and folks mops and brooms from what’s inside ‘em, nobody took much notice. They went on to Lew-Everard, where they had summut to drink, and then on they vamped to Dree-armed Cross, and there they seemed to have parted, Retty striking across the water-meads as if for home, and Marian going on to the next village, where there’s another public-house. Nothing more was zeed or heard o’ Retty till the waterman, on his way home, noticed something by the Great Pool; ‘twas her bonnet and shawl packed up. In the water he found her. He and another man brought her home, thinking a’ was dead; but she fetched round by degrees.’
'是的。好吧，先生，当你和你的小姐——这么说吧，她是合法的——当你们两个开车离开时，正如我所说，雷蒂和玛丽安戴上帽子走了出去；因为现在正值除夕夜，没什么可做的，人们都在用拖把和扫帚清理里面的东西，所以没有人太在意。他们继续前往卢-埃弗拉德，在那里喝了点饮料，然后他们又大步走向德利武装的克罗斯，在那里他们似乎已经分手了，雷蒂穿过水草地，仿佛回家一样，玛丽安继续前行。到下一个村庄，那里有另一家酒馆。雷蒂再也没有听到任何声音，直到船夫在回家的路上注意到大池边有什么东西；她的帽子和披肩都收拾好了。他在水里找到了她。他和另一个男人把她带回家，以为她死了；但她渐渐好转了。

Angel, suddenly recollecting that Tess was overhearing this gloomy tale, went to shut the door between the passage and the ante-room to the inner parlour where she was; but his wife, flinging a shawl round her, had come to the outer room and was listening to the man’s narrative, her eyes resting absently on the luggage and the drops of rain glistening upon it.
安吉尔突然想起苔丝无意中听到了这个悲惨的故事，便去关上了通往她所在的内客厅的过道和前厅之间的门。但他的妻子却披着披肩，来到了外屋，听着男人的叙述，她的目光心不在焉地落在行李和行李上闪闪发光的雨滴上。

‘And, more than this, there’s Marian; she’s been found dead drunk by the withy-bed—a girl who hev never been known to touch anything before except shilling ale; though, to be sure, ‘a was always a good trencher-woman, as her face showed. It seems as if the maids had all gone out o’ their minds!’
“不仅如此，还有玛丽安；人们发现她喝醉了，躺在床上——这个女孩以前除了先令麦酒之外从来不碰任何东西。不过，可以肯定的是，“她总是一个善于吃东西的女人，从她的脸上就可以看出。”看来女仆们都疯了！

‘And Izz?’ asked Tess.
“伊兹呢？”苔丝问。

‘Izz is about house as usual; but ‘a do say ‘a can guess how it happened; and she seems to be very low in mind about it, poor maid, as well she mid be. And so you see, sir, as all this happened just when we was packing your few traps and your Mis’ess’s night-rail and dressing things into the cart, why, it belated me.’
“Izz 像往常一样是关于房子的；但‘a确实说’a能猜到它是怎么发生的；可怜的女仆，她对此似乎也很不重视。所以你看，先生，所有这一切都发生在我们收拾你的几个陷阱和你小姐的夜轨并将东西装进车时，为什么，我太晚了。

‘Yes. Well, Jonathan, will you get the trunks upstairs, and drink a cup of ale, and hasten back as soon as you can, in case you should be wanted?’
'是的。好吧，乔纳森，你能把行李箱拿到楼上，喝一杯麦芽酒，然后尽快赶回来，以防万一有人需要你吗？

Tess had gone back to the inner parlour, and sat down by the fire, looking wistfully into it. She heard Jonathan Kail’s heavy footsteps up and down the stairs till he had done placing the luggage, and heard him express his thanks for the ale her husband took out to him, and for the gratuity he received. Jonathan’s footsteps then died from the door, and his cart creaked away.
苔丝回到了内客厅，坐在火边，若有所思地看着它。她听到乔纳森·凯尔沉重的脚步声在楼梯上上下，直到他把行李放好，并听到他对她丈夫给他拿的啤酒和他收到的小费表示感谢。乔纳森的脚步声从门口消失了，他的马车嘎吱嘎吱地走了。

Angel slid forward the massive oak bar which secured the door, and coming in to where she sat over the hearth, pressed her cheeks between his hands from behind. He expected her to jump up gaily and unpack the toilet-gear that she had been so anxious about, but as she did not rise he sat down with her in the firelight, the candles on the supper-table being too thin and glimmering to interfere with its glow.
安吉尔向前滑动了固定门的巨大橡木栏杆，来到她坐在壁炉边的位置，从后面用双手将她的脸颊压在了中间。他本以为她会高兴地跳起来，打开她一直担心的盥洗用具，但由于她没有站起来，他在火光下和她一起坐下来，晚餐桌上的蜡烛太细了，闪闪发光，无法干扰带着它的光芒。

‘I am so sorry you should have heard this sad story about the girls,’ he said. ‘Still, don’t let it depress you. Retty was naturally morbid, you know.’
“我很抱歉你应该听到这个关于女孩们的悲伤故事，”他说。 “不过，不要让它让你沮丧。你知道，雷蒂天生病态。

‘Without the least cause,’ said Tess. ‘While they who have cause to be, hide it, and pretend they are not.’
“没有任何理由，”苔丝说。 “虽然他们有理由这样做，但他们却隐藏起来，假装他们没有。”

This incident had turned the scale for her. They were simple and innocent girls on whom the unhappiness of unrequited love had fallen; they had deserved better at the hands of Fate. She had deserved worse—yet she was the chosen one. It was wicked of her to take all without paying. She would pay to the uttermost farthing; she would tell, there and then. This final determination she came to when she looked into the fire, he holding her hand.
这件事改变了她的命运。她们是单纯天真的女孩，遭遇了单相思的不幸。他们在命运手中理应得到更好的对待。她本应受到更糟糕的对待——但她是被选中的人。她不付钱就拿走一切，真是邪恶。她愿意付全部的钱。她会当场告诉。当她看着火，他握着她的手时，她做出了最后的决定。

A steady glare from the now flameless embers painted the sides and back of the fireplace with its colour, and the well-polished andirons, and the old brass tongs that would not meet. The underside of the mantel-shelf was flushed with the high-coloured light, and the legs of the table nearest the fire. Tess’s face and neck reflected the same warmth, which each gem turned into an Aldebaran or a Sirius—a constellation of white, red, and green flashes, that interchanged their hues with her every pulsation.
已无火焰的余烬发出持续的强光，将壁炉的侧面和背面、擦得锃亮的熨斗和无法接合的旧黄铜钳子涂上颜色。壁炉架的底面被绚丽的灯光照得通红，桌腿离火最近。苔丝的脸和脖子反射出同样的温暖，每颗宝石都变成毕宿五或天狼星——一个白色、红色和绿色闪光的星座，随着她的每一次脉动而交换它们的色调。

‘Do you remember what we said to each other this morning about telling our faults?’ he asked abruptly, finding that she still remained immovable. ‘We spoke lightly perhaps, and you may well have done so. But for me it was no light promise. I want to make a confession to you, Love.’
“你还记得今天早上我们互相说的关于诉说错误的话吗？”他突然问道，发现她仍然一动不动。 “也许我们说话很轻松，你也可能这么做了。但对我来说，这并不是一个轻而易举的承诺。我想向你表白，爱人。

This, from him, so unexpectedly apposite, had the effect upon her of a Providential interposition.
他的这句话出乎意料地恰到好处，给她带来了上天的干预效果。

‘You have to confess something?’ she said quickly, and even with gladness and relief.
“你必须承认一些事情吗？”她很快说道，甚至带着高兴和宽慰。

‘You did not expect it? Ah—you thought too highly of me. Now listen. Put your head there, because I want you to forgive me, and not to be indignant with me for not telling you before, as perhaps I ought to have done.’
‘你没想到吗？啊——你对我评价太高了。现在听。把你的头放在那里，因为我希望你能原谅我，不要因为我没有事先告诉你而生气，也许我应该这样做。

How strange it was! He seemed to be her double. She did not speak, and Clare went on—
多么奇怪啊！他似乎是她的替身。她没有说话，克莱尔继续说——

‘I did not mention it because I was afraid of endangering my chance of you, darling, the great prize of my life—my Fellowship I call you. My brother’s Fellowship was won at his college, mine at Talbothays Dairy. Well, I would not risk it. I was going to tell you a month ago—at the time you agreed to be mine, but I could not; I thought it might frighten you away from me. I put it off; then I thought I would tell you yesterday, to give you a chance at least of escaping me. But I did not. And I did not this morning, when you proposed our confessing our faults on the landing—the sinner that I was! But I must, now I see you sitting there so solemnly. I wonder if you will forgive me?’
“我没有提到这件事，是因为我害怕危及到你的机会，亲爱的，我一生的最大奖赏——我称之为我的团契。”我哥哥的奖学金是在他的大学获得的，我的奖学金是在塔尔博塞斯乳品厂获得的。好吧，我不会冒险。我本来想在一个月前告诉你——当时你同意属于我，但我不能；我想这可能会让你远离我。我把它推迟了；然后我想我昨天应该告诉你，至少给你一个逃离我的机会。但我没有。今天早上，当你提议我们在楼梯平台上承认我们的错误时，我却没有这么做——我就是个罪人！但我必须这么做，现在我看到你如此严肃地坐在那里。我不知道你会原谅我吗？

‘O yes! I am sure that—‘
'哦是啊！我确定-'

‘Well, I hope so. But wait a minute. You don’t know. To begin at the beginning. Though I imagine my poor father fears that I am one of the eternally lost for my doctrines, I am of course, a believer in good morals, Tess, as much as you. I used to wish to be a teacher of men, and it was a great disappointment to me when I found I could not enter the Church. I admired spotlessness, even though I could lay no claim to it, and hated impurity, as I hope I do now. Whatever one may think of plenary inspiration, one must heartily subscribe to these words of Paul: ‘Be thou an example—in word, in conversation, in charity, in spirit, in faith, in purity.’ It is the only safeguard for us poor human beings. ‘Integer vitae,’ says a Roman poet, who is strange company for St Paul—
‘嗯，我希望如此。但等一下。你不知道。从头开始。虽然我想象我可怜的父亲担心我会因为我的教义而永远迷失，但我当然是一个良好道德的信徒，苔丝，和你一样。我曾经希望成为人类的教师，当我发现自己无法进入教堂时，我感到非常失望。我崇尚一尘不染，尽管我无法宣称自己拥有一尘不染，但我讨厌不洁，就像我现在希望的那样。无论人们如何看待全然默示，我们都必须衷心赞同保罗的这句话：“你要在言语、言谈、仁爱、精神、信心、纯洁上成为榜样。”这是我们唯一的保障。可怜的人类。一位罗马诗人说：“完整的人生”，他是圣保罗的奇怪伙伴——

“The man of upright life, from frailties free,
“生活正直的人，没有弱点，

Stands not in need of Moorish spear or bow.
不需要摩尔人的矛或弓。

‘Well, a certain place is paved with good intentions, and having felt all that so strongly, you will see what a terrible remorse it bred in me when, in the midst of my fine aims for other people, I myself fell.’
“好吧，某个地方是用良好的意图铺成的，当我强烈地感受到这一切时，你会看到当我在为他人谋取美好目标时，我自己却跌倒了，它在我心中产生了多么可怕的悔恨。”

He then told her of that time of his life to which allusion has been made when, tossed about by doubts and difficulties in London, like a cork on the waves, he plunged into eight-and-forty hours’ dissipation with a stranger.
然后，他向她讲述了他生命中的那段时光，当时他在伦敦被疑虑和困难所困扰，就像波浪上的软木塞一样，与一个陌生人一起度过了八四十个小时的放荡时光。

‘Happily I awoke almost immediately to a sense of my folly,’ he continued. ‘I would have no more to say to her, and I came home. I have never repeated the offence. But I felt I should like to treat you with perfect frankness and honour, and I could not do so without telling this. Do you forgive me?’
“幸运的是，我几乎立刻就意识到自己的愚蠢，”他继续说道。 “我不想再对她说什么了，然后我就回家了。我从未再犯过同样的罪行。但我觉得我应该以完全的坦诚和荣誉对待你，而且我不能不告诉你这一点。你原谅我吗？'

She pressed his hand tightly for an answer.
她紧紧握住他的手，等待他的回答。

‘Then we will dismiss it at once and for ever!—too painful as it is for the occasion—and talk of something lighter.’
“那么我们就立刻永远地把它抛在脑后吧！——尽管这对于这个场合来说太痛苦了——然后谈论一些轻松的事情。”

‘O, Angel—I am almost glad—because now YOU can forgive ME! I have not made my confession. I have a confession, too—remember, I said so.’
‘哦，天使——我几乎很高兴——因为现在你可以原谅我了！我还没有坦白。我也有一个坦白——记住，我是这么说的。

‘Ah, to be sure! Now then for it, wicked little one.’
‘啊，当然了！现在就开始吧，邪恶的小家伙。

‘Perhaps, although you smile, it is as serious as yours, or more so.’
“也许，虽然你在微笑，但它和你的笑容一样严肃，或者更严肃。”

‘It can hardly be more serious, dearest.’
“亲爱的，事情再严重不过了。”

‘It cannot—O no, it cannot!’ She jumped up joyfully at the hope. ‘No, it cannot be more serious, certainly,’ she cried, ‘because ‘tis just the same! I will tell you now.’
“它不可能——噢，不，它不可能！”听到这个希望，她高兴地跳了起来。 “不，这当然不能更严重了，”她喊道，“因为一切都是一样的！”我现在就告诉你。

She sat down again.
她又坐下了。

Their hands were still joined. The ashes under the grate were lit by the fire vertically, like a torrid waste. Imagination might have beheld a Last Day luridness in this red-coaled glow, which fell on his face and hand, and on hers, peering into the loose hair about her brow, and firing the delicate skin underneath. A large shadow of her shape rose upon the wall and ceiling. She bent forward, at which each diamond on her neck gave a sinister wink like a toad’s; and pressing her forehead against his temple she entered on her story of her acquaintance with Alec d’Urberville and its results, murmuring the words without flinching, and with her eyelids drooping down.
他们的手仍然握在一起。炉排下的灰烬被火垂直点燃，如同炙热的废物。想象力可能会在这抹红色的光芒中看到一种末日的恐怖，它落在他的脸上、手上，还有她的手上，凝视着她额头周围松散的头发，灼烧着下面娇嫩的皮肤。她的影子在墙壁和天花板上升起。她向前倾身，脖子上的每颗钻石都像蟾蜍一样邪恶地眨着眼。她把额头抵在他的太阳穴上，开始讲述她与亚历克·德伯维尔的相识及其结果，她低垂着眼睑，毫不畏缩地低声说道。

END OF PHASE THE FOURTH
第四阶段结束

Phase the Fifth: The Woman Pays
第五阶段：女人付钱

XXXV
三十五

Her narrative ended; even its re-assertions and secondary explanations were done. Tess’s voice throughout had hardly risen higher than its opening tone; there had been no exculpatory phrase of any kind, and she had not wept.
她的叙述结束了；甚至连它的重新断言和次要解释也完成了。苔丝的声音自始至终都没有比开头的音调更高。没有任何辩解的话，她也没有哭。

But the complexion even of external things seemed to suffer transmutation as her announcement progressed. The fire in the grate looked impish—demoniacally funny, as if it did not care in the least about her strait. The fender grinned idly, as if it too did not care. The light from the water-bottle was merely engaged in a chromatic problem. All material objects around announced their irresponsibility with terrible iteration. And yet nothing had changed since the moments when he had been kissing her; or rather, nothing in the substance of things. But the essence of things had changed.
但随着她宣布的进展，即使是外部事物的面貌似乎也发生了变化。炉栅里的火看起来很顽皮——非常滑稽，好像它一点也不关心她的困境。挡泥板懒洋洋地笑了笑，好像它也不在乎。水瓶发出的光只是造成了色差问题。周围的所有物质都以可怕的迭代宣告了它们的不负责任。然而自从他亲吻她的那一刻起，一切都没有改变。或者更确切地说，在事物的实质上什么也没有。但事情的本质已经改变了。

When she ceased, the auricular impressions from their previous endearments seemed to hustle away into the corner of their brains, repeating themselves as echoes from a time of supremely purblind foolishness.
当她停下来时，他们先前的爱意所留下的耳廓印象似乎迅速消失在他们大脑的角落里，重复着自己那段极其愚昧无知的时光的回声。

Clare performed the irrelevant act of stirring the fire; the intelligence had not even yet got to the bottom of him. After stirring the embers he rose to his feet; all the force of her disclosure had imparted itself now. His face had withered. In the strenuousness of his concentration he treadled fitfully on the floor. He could not, by any contrivance, think closely enough; that was the meaning of his vague movement. When he spoke it was in the most inadequate, commonplace voice of the many varied tones she had heard from him.
克莱尔做出了无关紧要的煽动火的行为。情报还没有深入到他的内心。搅动余烬后，他站了起来。她所透露的全部力量现在已经全部释放出来了。他的脸已经枯萎了。由于全神贯注，他断断续续地踩在地板上。不管怎样，他都无法足够仔细地思考。这就是他那模糊动作的意思。他说话的语气是她从他那里听到的各种语气中最不恰当、最平常的。

‘Tess!’
“苔丝！”

‘Yes, dearest.’
“是的，亲爱的。”

‘Am I to believe this? From your manner I am to take it as true. O you cannot be out of your mind! You ought to be! Yet you are not... My wife, my Tess—nothing in you warrants such a supposition as that?’
‘我该相信这个吗？从你的态度来看，我认为这是真的。哦，你不能失去理智！你应该是！但你不是……我的妻子，我的苔丝——你身上没有任何东西值得这样的假设吗？

‘I am not out of my mind,’ she said.
“我没有失去理智，”她说。

‘And yet—‘ He looked vacantly at her, to resume with dazed senses: ‘Why didn’t you tell me before? Ah, yes, you would have told me, in a way—but I hindered you, I remember!’
“然而——”他茫然地看着她，茫然地继续说道：“你为什么不早告诉我？啊，是的，你本来会在某种程度上告诉我的——但我记得，我阻止了你！”

These and other of his words were nothing but the perfunctory babble of the surface while the depths remained paralyzed. He turned away, and bent over a chair. Tess followed him to the middle of the room, where he was, and stood there staring at him with eyes that did not weep. Presently she slid down upon her knees beside his foot, and from this position she crouched in a heap.
他的这些话，不过是表面上的敷衍，内心却是麻木不仁的。他转过身去，弯腰靠在椅子上。苔丝跟着他来到房间中央，也就是他所在的地方，站在那里，用没有哭泣的眼睛盯着他。不久，她跪在他脚边，蹲成一团。

‘In the name of our love, forgive me!’ she whispered with a dry mouth. ‘I have forgiven you for the same!’
“以我们爱情的名义，请原谅我！”她口干舌燥地低声说道。 “我也原谅你了！”

And, as he did not answer, she said again—
由于他没有回答，她又说了一遍——

‘Forgive me as you are forgiven! I forgive YOU, Angel.’
‘原谅我，就像你被原谅一样！我原谅你，天使。

‘You—yes, you do.’
“你——是的，你确实如此。”

‘But you do not forgive me?’
“但是你不原谅我吗？”

‘O Tess, forgiveness does not apply to the case! You were one person; now you are another. My God—how can forgiveness meet such a grotesque—prestidigitation as that!’
‘哦，苔丝，宽恕不适用于这种情况！你是一个人；现在你是另一个了。我的上帝——宽恕怎么能遇到如此荒唐的——巫术呢！”

He paused, contemplating this definition; then suddenly broke into horrible laughter—as unnatural and ghastly as a laugh in hell.
他停了下来，思考着这个定义。然后突然爆发出可怕的笑声——就像地狱里的笑声一样不自然、可怕。

‘Don’t—don’t! It kills me quite, that!’ she shrieked. ‘O have mercy upon me—have mercy!’
‘不要——不要！这简直要了我的命！”她尖叫道。 “哦，怜悯我吧——怜悯我吧！”

He did not answer; and, sickly white, she jumped up.
他没有回答；她脸色惨白，跳了起来。

‘Angel, Angel! what do you mean by that laugh?’ she cried out. ‘Do you know what this is to me?’
‘天使，天使！ “你笑什么意思？”她喊道。 “你知道这对我来说意味着什么吗？”

He shook his head.
他摇摇头。

‘I have been hoping, longing, praying, to make you happy! I have thought what joy it will be to do it, what an unworthy wife I shall be if I do not! That’s what I have felt, Angel!’
“我一直希望、渴望、祈祷，能让你幸福！我想，如果我这样做，那该是多么快乐啊，如果我不这样做，我将是一个多么不配的妻子啊！这就是我的感受，天使！

‘I know that.’
'我知道。'

‘I thought, Angel, that you loved me—me, my very self! If it is I you do love, O how can it be that you look and speak so? It frightens me! Having begun to love you, I love you for ever—in all changes, in all disgraces, because you are yourself. I ask no more. Then how can you, O my own husband, stop loving me?’
“我以为，安吉尔，你爱我——我，我自己！”如果你爱的是我，哦，你怎么会这样说话呢？这让我害怕！从开始爱你开始，我就永远爱你——在所有的变化中，在所有的耻辱中，因为你就是你自己。我不再问了。那我的丈夫啊，你怎么能不爱我呢？

‘I repeat, the woman I have been loving is not you.’
“我再说一遍，我一直爱着的女人不是你。”

‘But who?’
“但是谁呢？”

‘Another woman in your shape.’
“又一个和你一样的女人。”

She perceived in his words the realization of her own apprehensive foreboding in former times. He looked upon her as a species of imposter; a guilty woman in the guise of an innocent one. Terror was upon her white face as she saw it; her cheek was flaccid, and her mouth had almost the aspect of a round little hole. The horrible sense of his view of her so deadened her that she staggered, and he stepped forward, thinking she was going to fall.
她从他的话中看出了自己当年的不祥预感。他把她视为冒名顶替者。一个伪装成无辜者的有罪女人。当她看到这一切时，她苍白的脸上充满了恐惧。她的脸颊松弛，嘴巴几乎像一个圆圆的小洞。他对她的看法让她产生了一种可怕的感觉，她踉跄了一下，他向前走去，以为她要摔倒了。

‘Sit down, sit down,’ he said gently. ‘You are ill; and it is natural that you should be.’
“坐下，坐下。”他温柔地说。 '你生病了;你应该这样做是很自然的。

She did sit down, without knowing where she was, that strained look still upon her face, and her eyes such as to make his flesh creep.
她确实坐下了，不知道自己身在何处，脸上仍然带着紧张的表情，她的眼睛让他浑身起鸡皮疙瘩。

‘I don’t belong to you any more, then; do I, Angel?’ she asked helplessly. ‘It is not me, but another woman like me that he loved, he says.’
‘那么我就不再属于你了；我是吗，天使？”她无助地问道。 “他爱的不是我，而是另一个像我一样的女人，他说。”

The image raised caused her to take pity upon herself as one who was ill-used. Her eyes filled as she regarded her position further; she turned round and burst into a flood of self-sympathetic tears.
这个形象让她怜悯自己，认为自己是一个被虐待的人。当她进一步审视自己的位置时，她的眼睛充满了泪水。她转过身来，泪水夺眶而出。

Clare was relieved at this change, for the effect on her of what had happened was beginning to be a trouble to him only less than the woe of the disclosure itself. He waited patiently, apathetically, till the violence of her grief had worn itself out, and her rush of weeping had lessened to a catching gasp at intervals.
克莱尔对这一变化感到松了口气，因为所发生的事情对她的影响开始对他造成的麻烦仅次于披露本身的痛苦。他耐心地、无动于衷地等待着，直到她剧烈的悲伤消退，她急促的哭泣声也减弱为时不时的喘息声。

‘Angel,’ she said suddenly, in her natural tones, the insane, dry voice of terror having left her now. ‘Angel, am I too wicked for you and me to live together?’
“天使，”她突然用她自然的语气说道，疯狂、干巴巴的恐惧声音现在已经消失了。 “天使，我是不是太邪恶了，不适合你和我住在一起？”

‘I have not been able to think what we can do.’
“我无法想象我们能做什么。”

‘I shan’t ask you to let me live with you, Angel, because I have no right to! I shall not write to mother and sisters to say we be married, as I said I would do; and I shan’t finish the good-hussif’ I cut out and meant to make while we were in lodgings.’
“我不会要求你让我和你住在一起，天使，因为我没有权利！”我不会写信给母亲和姐妹们说我们结婚了，就像我说过的那样；我不会完成我们在宿舍时剪下来并打算做的好胡斯。

‘Shan’t you?’
“你不是吗？”

‘No, I shan’t do anything, unless you order me to; and if you go away from me I shall not follow ‘ee; and if you never speak to me any more I shall not ask why, unless you tell me I may.’
“不，除非你命令我，否则我不会做任何事；如果你离开我，我就不会跟着你；如果你不再跟我说话，我就不会问为什么，除非你告诉我我可以。

‘And if I order you to do anything?’
“如果我命令你做什么呢？”

‘I will obey you like your wretched slave, even if it is to lie down and die.’
“我会像你可怜的奴隶一样服从你，即使是躺下死去。”

‘You are very good. But it strikes me that there is a want of harmony between your present mood of self-sacrifice and your past mood of self-preservation.’
'你很不错。但令我印象深刻的是，你现在的自我牺牲情绪和过去的自我保护情绪之间缺乏和谐。”

These were the first words of antagonism. To fling elaborate sarcasms at Tess, however, was much like flinging them at a dog or cat. The charms of their subtlety passed by her unappreciated, and she only received them as inimical sounds which meant that anger ruled. She remained mute, not knowing that he was smothering his affection for her. She hardly observed that a tear descended slowly upon his cheek, a tear so large that it magnified the pores of the skin over which it rolled, like the object lens of a microscope. Meanwhile reillumination as to the terrible and total change that her confession had wrought in his life, in his universe, returned to him, and he tried desperately to advance among the new conditions in which he stood. Some consequent action was necessary; yet what?
这是敌对的第一句话。然而，对苔丝进行精心设计的讽刺却很像对狗或猫进行讽刺。它们微妙的魅力在她身边没有被察觉，她只将它们视为敌意的声音，这意味着愤怒占据了主导地位。她保持沉默，不知道他正在扼杀他对她的感情。她几乎没有注意到，一滴泪水慢慢地落在他的脸颊上，泪水太大了，放大了它所滚过的皮肤的毛孔，就像显微镜的物镜一样。与此同时，他重新认识到她的坦白给他的生活、他的宇宙带来了可怕的彻底改变，他拼命地试图在自己所处的新环境中前进。一些后续行动是必要的；但又怎样？

‘Tess,’ he said, as gently as he could speak, ‘I cannot stay—in this room—just now. I will walk out a little way.’
“苔丝，”他尽可能轻柔地说，“我现在不能呆在这个房间里。我会走出一段路。

He quietly left the room, and the two glasses of wine that he had poured out for their supper—one for her, one for him—remained on the table untasted. This was what their agape had come to. At tea, two or three hours earlier, they had, in the freakishness of affection, drunk from one cup.
他悄悄地离开了房间，晚餐时倒的两杯酒——一杯给她，一杯给他——还留在桌子上，没有品尝。这就是他们的爱的结果。两三个小时前，喝茶时，他们怀着一种奇异的感情，喝了一杯酒。

The closing of the door behind him, gently as it had been pulled to, roused Tess from her stupor. He was gone; she could not stay. Hastily flinging her cloak around her she opened the door and followed, putting out the candles as if she were never coming back. The rain was over and the night was now clear.
门在他身后关上，就像被轻轻地拉上一样，把苔丝从昏迷中惊醒。他走了；他走了。她不能留下来。她急忙把斗篷披在身上，打开门，跟了上去，熄灭了蜡烛，仿佛她再也不会回来了。雨停了，夜色现在晴朗了。

She was soon close at his heels, for Clare walked slowly and without purpose. His form beside her light gray figure looked black, sinister, and forbidding, and she felt as sarcasm the touch of the jewels of which she had been momentarily so proud. Clare turned at hearing her footsteps, but his recognition of her presence seemed to make no difference to him, and he went on over the five yawning arches of the great bridge in front of the house.
她很快就追到了他的身后，因为克莱尔缓慢而漫无目的地走着。他的身影在她浅灰色的身躯旁边，显得黑色、险恶、令人生畏，而她一时引以为傲的珠宝触碰她，她感到一种讽刺。克莱尔听到她的脚步声，转过身来，但他认出她的存在似乎对他来说没有什么影响，他继续前行，越过房子前面那座大桥的五个张开的拱门。

The cow and horse tracks in the road were full of water, the rain having been enough to charge them, but not enough to wash them away. Across these minute pools the reflected stars flitted in a quick transit as she passed; she would not have known they were shining overhead if she had not seen them there—the vastest things of the universe imaged in objects so mean.
路上的牛马蹄印全是水，雨水足以冲走它们，却不足以冲走它们。当她经过时，反射的星星在这些微小的水池中快速掠过。如果她没有看到它们在那里，她就不会知道它们在头顶上闪闪发光——宇宙中最巨大的事物在如此卑鄙的物体中成像。

The place to which they had travelled to-day was in the same valley as Talbothays, but some miles lower down the river; and the surroundings being open, she kept easily in sight of him. Away from the house the road wound through the meads, and along these she followed Clare without any attempt to come up with him or to attract him, but with dumb and vacant fidelity.
他们今天要去的地方与塔尔博塞斯位于同一个山谷，但在河下游几英里处。而且周围环境开阔，她很容易就能看到他。离开房子，道路蜿蜒穿过草地，她沿着这些路跟着克莱尔，没有试图追上他或吸引他，而是带着沉默和空虚的忠诚。

At last, however, her listless walk brought her up alongside him, and still he said nothing. The cruelty of fooled honesty is often great after enlightenment, and it was mighty in Clare now. The outdoor air had apparently taken away from him all tendency to act on impulse; she knew that he saw her without irradiation—in all her bareness; that Time was chanting his satiric psalm at her then—
然而最后，她无精打采的走着，走到了他身边，但他仍然什么也没说。受愚弄的诚实的残酷性在启蒙之后往往是巨大的，而现在在克莱尔身上更是如此。显然，室外的空气已经消除了他冲动行事的倾向。她知道他看到的她没有受到任何照射——她赤裸裸的。那时，时间正在向她吟诵讽刺诗篇——

Behold, when thy face is made bare, he that loved thee
看哪，当你的脸裸露时，爱你的人

 shall hate;
会憎恨；

Thy face shall be no more fair at the fall of thy fate.
当你命运的堕落时，你的脸将不再美丽。

For thy life shall fall as a leaf and be shed as the rain;
因为你的生命将如树叶般飘落，如雨般倾泻；

And the veil of thine head shall be grief, and the crown
你头上的面纱将是悲伤，而你的王冠将是

 shall be pain.
将会是痛苦。

He was still intently thinking, and her companionship had now insufficient power to break or divert the strain of thought. What a weak thing her presence must have become to him! She could not help addressing Clare.
他还在全神贯注地思考着，而她的陪伴现在已经不足以打破或转移他的思绪了。她的存在对他来说一定是多么软弱啊！她忍不住对克莱尔说道。

‘What have I done—what HAVE I done! I have not told of anything that interferes with or belies my love for you. You don’t think I planned it, do you? It is in your own mind what you are angry at, Angel; it is not in me. O, it is not in me, and I am not that deceitful woman you think me!’
‘我做了什么——我做了什么！我没有说过任何干扰或掩盖我对你的爱的事情。你认为这不是我计划好的，是吗？你生气的是你自己的想法，天使；它不在我之内。哦，它不在我身上，我也不是你想象中的那个骗人的女人！

‘H’m—well. Not deceitful, my wife; but not the same. No, not the same. But do not make me reproach you. I have sworn that I will not; and I will do everything to avoid it.’
‘嗯——好吧。不虚伪，我的妻子；但不一样。不，不一样。但别让我责备你。我发誓我不会；我会尽一切努力避免它。

But she went on pleading in her distraction; and perhaps said things that would have been better left to silence.
但她继续恳求，以分散她的注意力。也许说了一些最好保持沉默的话。

‘Angel!—Angel! I was a child—a child when it happened! I knew nothing of men.’
‘天使！——天使！事情发生时我还是个孩子——还是个孩子！我对男人一无所知。

‘You were more sinned against than sinning, that I admit.’
“我承认，你所受的罪比你所犯的罪还要多。”

‘Then will you not forgive me?’
“那你不肯原谅我吗？”

‘I do forgive you, but forgiveness is not all.’
“我确实原谅你，但原谅并不是全部。”

‘And love me?’
“那么爱我吗？”

To this question he did not answer.
对于这个问题他没有回答。

‘O Angel—my mother says that it sometimes happens so!—she knows several cases where they were worse than I, and the husband has not minded it much—has got over it at least. And yet the woman had not loved him as I do you!’
“噢，天使——我母亲说有时会这样！——她知道好几个比我更糟糕的例子，而丈夫并没有太介意——至少已经克服了。然而那个女人并没有像我爱你那样爱他！

‘Don’t, Tess; don’t argue. Different societies, different manners. You almost make me say you are an unapprehending peasant woman, who have never been initiated into the proportions of social things. You don’t know what you say.’
“别这样，苔丝；不要争论。不同的社会，不同的风俗习惯。你几乎让我说你是一个不懂事的农妇，从来没有接触过社会事物。你不知道自己在说什么。

‘I am only a peasant by position, not by nature!’
“我只是身份上的农民，而不是本质上的农民！”

She spoke with an impulse to anger, but it went as it came.
她说话时带着一股愤怒的冲动，但事已至此，就这样过去了。

‘So much the worse for you. I think that parson who unearthed your pedigree would have done better if he had held his tongue. I cannot help associating your decline as a family with this other fact—of your want of firmness. Decrepit families imply decrepit wills, decrepit conduct. Heaven, why did you give me a handle for despising you more by informing me of your descent! Here was I thinking you a new-sprung child of nature; there were you, the belated seedling of an effete aristocracy!’
‘对你来说更糟糕了。我认为那个发掘你血统的牧师如果闭嘴的话会做得更好。我情不自禁地将你作为一个家庭的衰落与另一个事实联系起来——你缺乏坚定性。衰弱的家庭意味着衰弱的意志、衰弱的行为。老天爷，你为何要告诉我你的出身，给我更鄙视你的把柄！我认为你是大自然的新生孩子；就是你，一个衰弱贵族的迟来的幼苗！

‘Lots of families are as bad as mine in that! Retty’s family were once large landowners, and so were Dairyman Billett’s. And the Debbyhouses, who now are carters, were once the De Bayeux family. You find such as I everywhere; ‘tis a feature of our county, and I can’t help it.’
“很多家庭都和我的家庭一样糟糕！雷蒂家族曾经是大地主，奶制品厂比利特家族也是如此。黛比豪斯家族（现在是卡特家族）曾经是德巴约家族。像我这样的人随处可见； “这是我们县的特色，我无能为力。”

‘So much the worse for the county.’
“对于这个县来说，情况更糟。”

She took these reproaches in their bulk simply, not in their particulars; he did not love her as he had loved her hitherto, and to all else she was indifferent.
她只是简单地看待这些指责，而不是具体地看待这些指责。他不像以前那样爱她，而她对其他一切都漠不关心。

They wandered on again in silence. It was said afterwards that a cottager of Wellbridge, who went out late that night for a doctor, met two lovers in the pastures, walking very slowly, without converse, one behind the other, as in a funeral procession, and the glimpse that he obtained of their faces seemed to denote that they were anxious and sad. Returning later, he passed them again in the same field, progressing just as slowly, and as regardless of the hour and of the cheerless night as before. It was only on account of his preoccupation with his own affairs, and the illness in his house, that he did not bear in mind the curious incident, which, however, he recalled a long while after.
他们又默默地继续前行。后来据说，韦尔布里奇的一个农夫那天深夜出去看医生，在牧场上遇见了两个恋人，他们走得很慢，没有交谈，一个在另一个后面，就像在送葬队伍中一样，瞥见他从他们的表情来看，他们似乎感到焦虑和悲伤。后来回来时，他又在同一片田地里经过了他们，行进速度和以前一样缓慢，不管时间长短，也不管夜晚的气氛如何阴沉。只是因为他一心想着自己的事情，再加上家里又生病了，他才没有把这件奇怪的事记在心里，不过过了好一会儿，他又想起了这件事。

During the interval of the cottager’s going and coming, she had said to her husband—
在农夫来来去去的间隙，她对她的丈夫说：

‘I don’t see how I can help being the cause of much misery to you all your life. The river is down there. I can put an end to myself in it. I am not afraid.’
“我不知道我该如何帮助你成为你一生痛苦的根源。”河就在下面。我可以结束自己的生命。我不害怕。'

‘I don’t wish to add murder to my other follies,’ he said.
“我不想在我的其他愚蠢行为中添加谋杀，”他说。

‘I will leave something to show that I did it myself—on account of my shame. They will not blame you then.’
“我会留下一些东西来表明这是我自己做的——因为我的羞耻。”那样他们就不会责怪你了。

‘Don’t speak so absurdly—I wish not to hear it. It is nonsense to have such thoughts in this kind of case, which is rather one for satirical laughter than for tragedy. You don’t in the least understand the quality of the mishap. It would be viewed in the light of a joke by nine-tenths of the world if it were known. Please oblige me by returning to the house, and going to bed.’
“别说得这么荒唐——我不想听。在这种情况下有这样的想法是无稽之谈，这与其说是悲剧，不如说是讽刺笑。你根本不了解这次事故的严重程度。如果它被人知道的话，世界上十分之九的人都会把它当作一个笑话来看待。请让我回到屋子去睡觉。

‘I will,’ said she dutifully.
“我会的，”她尽职尽责地说。

They had rambled round by a road which led to the well-known ruins of the Cistercian abbey behind the mill, the latter having, in centuries past, been attached to the monastic establishment. The mill still worked on, food being a perennial necessity; the abbey had perished, creeds being transient. One continually sees the ministration of the temporary outlasting the ministration of the eternal. Their walk having been circuitous, they were still not far from the house, and in obeying his direction she only had to reach the large stone bridge across the main river and follow the road for a few yards. When she got back, everything remained as she had left it, the fire being still burning. She did not stay downstairs for more than a minute, but proceeded to her chamber, whither the luggage had been taken. Here she sat down on the edge of the bed, looking blankly around, and presently began to undress. In removing the light towards the bedstead its rays fell upon the tester of white dimity; something was hanging beneath it, and she lifted the candle to see what it was. A bough of mistletoe. Angel had put it there; she knew that in an instant. This was the explanation of that mysterious parcel which it had been so difficult to pack and bring; whose contents he would not explain to her, saying that time would soon show her the purpose thereof. In his zest and his gaiety he had hung it there. How foolish and inopportune that mistletoe looked now.
他们沿着一条路漫步，这条路通向磨坊后面著名的西多会修道院遗址，后者在过去的几个世纪里一直附属于修道院。磨坊仍在运转，食物是常年必需品。修道院已经灭亡，信条也随之消失。人们不断地看到暂时的事奉比永恒的事奉更持久。一路上绕了一大圈，离家还不算远，听从他的指挥，只要到了横跨大河的大石桥上，顺着路走几码就可以了。当她回来时，一切都还是她离开时的样子，火还在燃烧。她在楼下没有停留超过一分钟，就往自己的房间走去，行李已经被搬到了那里。她坐在床边，茫然地环顾四周，很快就开始脱衣服。当光线移向床架时，它的光线落在白色暗淡的测试仪上。有东西挂在下面，她举起蜡烛想看看那是什么。一枝槲寄生。安吉尔把它放在那里；她立刻就知道了。这就是对那个难以收拾和携带的神秘包裹的解释；他没有向她解释其内容，说时间很快就会告诉她其目的。他满怀热情和欢乐地将它挂在那里。那棵槲寄生现在看起来是多么愚蠢和不合时宜。

Having nothing more to fear, having scarce anything to hope, for that he would relent there seemed no promise whatever, she lay down dully. When sorrow ceases to be speculative, sleep sees her opportunity. Among so many happier moods which forbid repose this was a mood which welcomed it, and in a few minutes the lonely Tess forgot existence, surrounded by the aromatic stillness of the chamber that had once, possibly, been the bride-chamber of her own ancestry.
没有什么可害怕的了，也没有什么可希望的了，因为他似乎不会心慈手软，她呆呆地躺了下来。当悲伤不再是推测时，睡眠就看到了她的机会。在许多禁止休息的快乐心情中，这是一种欢迎休息的心情，几分钟后，孤独的苔丝就忘记了存在，被房间里芳香的寂静所包围，这个房间曾经可能是她自己祖先的新房。 。

Later on that night Clare also retraced his steps to the house. Entering softly to the sitting-room he obtained a light, and with the manner of one who had considered his course he spread his rugs upon the old horse-hair sofa which stood there, and roughly shaped it to a sleeping-couch. Before lying down he crept shoeless upstairs, and listened at the door of her apartment. Her measured breathing told that she was sleeping profoundly.
那天晚上晚些时候，克莱尔也原路返回家中。他轻手轻脚地走进起居室，拿到一盏灯，以深思熟虑的态度，将地毯铺在那张旧马毛沙发上，粗略地把它做成了一张睡沙发。躺下之前，他光着脚爬上楼，在她公寓门口听着。她平稳的呼吸声表明她正在熟睡。

‘Thank God!’ murmured Clare; and yet he was conscious of a pang of bitterness at the thought—approximately true, though not wholly so—that having shifted the burden of her life to his shoulders, she was now reposing without care.
“感谢上帝！”克莱尔低声说道。然而，一想到她把生活的重担转移到了他的肩上，而她现在却无忧无虑地躺着，这想法虽然不完全正确，但大致上是正确的，他感到一阵苦涩。

He turned away to descend; then, irresolute, faced round to her door again. In the act he caught sight of one of the d’Urberville dames, whose portrait was immediately over the entrance to Tess’s bedchamber. In the candlelight the painting was more than unpleasant. Sinister design lurked in the woman’s features, a concentrated purpose of revenge on the other sex—so it seemed to him then. The Caroline bodice of the portrait was low—precisely as Tess’s had been when he tucked it in to show the necklace; and again he experienced the distressing sensation of a resemblance between them.
他转身准备下山。然后，犹豫不决，再次转向她的门。在这一幕中，他看到了一位德伯维尔夫人，她的肖像就挂在苔丝卧室入口的上方。在烛光下，这幅画实在是令人不快。这个女人的面容中潜藏着险恶的意图，集中了对异性进行报复的目的——当时他是这么认为的。肖像中卡罗琳的紧身胸衣很低——正如他把它塞进里面以展示项链时苔丝的那样。他再次体验到他们之间相似的痛苦感觉。

The check was sufficient. He resumed his retreat and descended.
支票就足够了。他继续撤退并下降。

His air remained calm and cold, his small compressed mouth indexing his powers of self-control; his face wearing still that terrible sterile expression which had spread thereon since her disclosure. It was the face of a man who was no longer passion’s slave, yet who found no advantage in his enfranchisement. He was simply regarding the harrowing contingencies of human experience, the unexpectedness of things. Nothing so pure, so sweet, so virginal as Tess had seemed possible all the long while that he had adored her, up to an hour ago; but
他的神情依然平静而冰冷，他紧闭的小嘴显示出他的自我控制能力。他的脸上仍然挂着自从她坦白以来就一直存在的那种可怕的、毫无生气的表情。这是一张不再是激情奴隶的人的脸，但他发现自己的选举权并没有带来任何好处。他只是在考虑人类经历中令人痛苦的偶然事件，以及事情的出乎意料。在他崇拜苔丝的很长一段时间里，直到一个小时前，没有什么比苔丝更纯洁、更甜蜜、更贞洁的了。但

The little less, and what worlds away!
少一点，那又是天壤之别！

He argued erroneously when he said to himself that her heart was not indexed in the honest freshness of her face; but Tess had no advocate to set him right. Could it be possible, he continued, that eyes which as they gazed never expressed any divergence from what the tongue was telling, were yet ever seeing another world behind her ostensible one, discordant and contrasting?
当他自言自语地说，她的心并没有从她那诚实清新的脸上反映出来时，他的论点是错误的。但苔丝没有人支持他纠正他的错误。他继续说，那双眼睛在凝视时从未表现出与舌头所讲述的内容有任何分歧，是否有可能在她表面的世界背后看到另一个世界，不和谐和对比？

He reclined on his couch in the sitting-room, and extinguished the light. The night came in, and took up its place there, unconcerned and indifferent; the night which had already swallowed up his happiness, and was now digesting it listlessly; and was ready to swallow up the happiness of a thousand other people with as little disturbance or change of mien.
他靠在客厅的沙发上，关掉了灯。夜色降临，占据了它的位置，漠不关心，漠不关心。夜晚已经吞噬了他的幸福，现在正无精打采地消化着它。并准备以同样的干扰或态度的改变来吞噬其他一千人的幸福。

XXXVI
三十六

Clare arose in the light of a dawn that was ashy and furtive, as though associated with crime. The fireplace confronted him with its extinct embers; the spread supper-table, whereon stood the two full glasses of untasted wine, now flat and filmy; her vacated seat and his own; the other articles of furniture, with their eternal look of not being able to help it, their intolerable inquiry what was to be done? From above there was no sound; but in a few minutes there came a knock at the door. He remembered that it would be the neighbouring cottager’s wife, who was to minister to their wants while they remained here.
克莱尔在黎明的曙光中醒来，黎明的光芒灰暗而鬼祟，仿佛与犯罪有关。壁炉里的余烬已经熄灭了。餐桌上铺着摊开的桌子，上面放着两杯未尝过的葡萄酒，现在已经变淡了，呈薄膜状。她空出的座位和他自己的空出的座位；其他的家具，总是一副无能为力的样子，令人难以忍受地询问要做什么？上面没有任何声音；但几分钟后，有人敲门。他记得，当他们留在这里时，由邻居的妻子负责满足他们的需要。

The presence of a third person in the house would be extremely awkward just now, and, being already dressed, he opened the window and informed her that they could manage to shift for themselves that morning. She had a milk-can in her hand, which he told her to leave at the door. When the dame had gone away he searched in the back quarters of the house for fuel, and speedily lit a fire. There was plenty of eggs, butter, bread, and so on in the larder, and Clare soon had breakfast laid, his experiences at the dairy having rendered him facile in domestic preparations. The smoke of the kindled wood rose from the chimney without like a lotus-headed column; local people who were passing by saw it, and thought of the newly-married couple, and envied their happiness.
现在屋里有第三个人会很尴尬，而且他已经穿好衣服，打开窗户并告诉她，他们可以在那天早上自己换班。她手里拿着一个牛奶罐，他让她把它放在门口。等那位女士走后，他在房子的后面寻找燃料，并迅速生了火。食品储藏室里有充足的鸡蛋、黄油、面包等，克莱尔很快就准备好了早餐，他在乳品店的经验使他能够轻松地做好家庭准备。点燃的木头冒出的烟雾从烟囱里冒出来，像莲花柱一样。路过的当地人看到了，想起这对新婚夫妇，羡慕他们的幸福。

Angel cast a final glance round, and then going to the foot of the stairs, called in a conventional voice—
安格尔最后看了一眼周围，然后走到楼梯脚下，用惯常的声音喊道——

‘Breakfast is ready!’
“早餐准备好了！”

He opened the front door, and took a few steps in the morning air. When, after a short space, he came back she was already in the sitting-room mechanically readjusting the breakfast things. As she was fully attired, and the interval since his calling her had been but two or three minutes, she must have been dressed or nearly so before he went to summon her. Her hair was twisted up in a large round mass at the back of her head, and she had put on one of the new frocks—a pale blue woollen garment with neck-frillings of white. Her hands and face appeared to be cold, and she had possibly been sitting dressed in the bedroom a long time without any fire. The marked civility of Clare’s tone in calling her seemed to have inspired her, for the moment, with a new glimmer of hope. But it soon died when she looked at him.
他打开前门，在清晨的空气中走了几步。过了一会儿，当他回来时，她已经在客厅里机械地调整着早餐的东西。由于她已经穿戴整齐，而且距离他叫她的时间也只有两三分钟，所以在他去叫她之前，她一定已经穿好衣服了，或者差不多已经穿好衣服了。她的头发在脑后盘成一大团圆团，她穿上了一件新衣服——一件浅蓝色的羊毛衣服，领口是白色的。她的手和脸都显得冰冷，她可能已经在没有生火的卧室里坐了很长时间了。克莱尔打电话给她时明显礼貌的语气似乎给她带来了一丝新的希望。但当她看着他时，这种感觉很快就消失了。

The pair were, in truth, but the ashes of their former fires. To the hot sorrow of the previous night had succeeded heaviness; it seemed as if nothing could kindle either of them to fervour of sensation any more.
事实上，这两个人都已经化为灰烬了。前一天晚上的强烈悲伤取代了沉重；似乎没有什么能够再激发他们任何一个人的情感热情了。

He spoke gently to her, and she replied with a like undemonstrativeness. At last she came up to him, looking in his sharply-defined face as one who had no consciousness that her own formed a visible object also.
他温柔地对她说话，而她也同样含蓄地回答。最后她走到他面前，看着他轮廓分明的脸，她没有意识到自己的脸也形成了一个可见的物体。

‘Angel!’ she said, and paused, touching him with her fingers lightly as a breeze, as though she could hardly believe to be there in the flesh the man who was once her lover. Her eyes were bright, her pale cheek still showed its wonted roundness, though half-dried tears had left glistening traces thereon; and the usually ripe red mouth was almost as pale as her cheek. Throbbingly alive as she was still, under the stress of her mental grief the life beat so brokenly that a little further pull upon it would cause real illness, dull her characteristic eyes, and make her mouth thin.
“天使！”她说道，然后停了下来，用手指轻柔地抚摸着他，就像微风一样，仿佛她简直不敢相信这个曾经是她的情人的男人竟然存在于肉体之中。她的眼睛明亮，苍白的脸颊仍显出往常的圆润，只是半干的泪水在上面留下了晶莹的痕迹。平时红润的嘴唇几乎和她的脸颊一样苍白。她仍然活着，但在精神悲伤的压力下，生活的节奏如此破碎，如果进一步拉动它，就会导致真正的疾病，使她特有的眼睛变得迟钝，使她的嘴巴变薄。

She looked absolutely pure. Nature, in her fantastic trickery, had set such a seal of maidenhood upon Tess’s countenance that he gazed at her with a stupefied air.
她看起来绝对纯洁。大自然用她奇妙的诡计，在苔丝的脸上盖上了少女的印记，使他用一种惊愕的神情看着她。

‘Tess! Say it is not true! No, it is not true!’
‘苔丝！说这不是真的！不，这不是真的！

‘It is true.’
'是真的。'

‘Every word?’
'每一个字？'

‘Every word.’
'每一个字。'

He looked at her imploringly, as if he would willingly have taken a lie from her lips, knowing it to be one, and have made of it, by some sort of sophistry, a valid denial. However, she only repeated—
他恳求地看着她，仿佛他知道她说的是谎言，愿意从她嘴里夺走谎言，并通过某种诡辩将其变成有效的否认。然而，她只是重复了一遍——

‘It is true.’
'是真的。'

‘Is he living?’ Angel then asked.
“他还活着吗？”安吉尔问道。

‘The baby died.’
“孩子死了。”

‘But the man?’
“但是那个男人呢？”

‘He is alive.’
“他还活着。”

A last despair passed over Clare’s face.
克莱尔的脸上掠过最后一丝绝望。

‘Is he in England?’
“他在英国吗？”

‘Yes.’
'是的。'

He took a few vague steps.
他模糊地走了几步。

‘My position—is this,’ he said abruptly. ‘I thought—any man would have thought—that by giving up all ambition to win a wife with social standing, with fortune, with knowledge of the world, I should secure rustic innocence as surely as I should secure pink cheeks; but—However, I am no man to reproach you, and I will not.’
“我的立场——是这样的，”他突然说道。 “我想——任何男人都会想——放弃所有的野心去赢得一个有社会地位、有财富、有世界知识的妻子，我应该获得质朴的纯真，就像我应该获得粉红的脸颊一样；但是——但是，我不是责备你的人，我也不会。

Tess felt his position so entirely that the remainder had not been needed. Therein lay just the distress of it; she saw that he had lost all round.
苔丝完全感受到了他的处境，所以不需要剩下的了。这就是它的痛苦所在。她看到他已经彻底失败了。

‘Angel—I should not have let it go on to marriage with you if I had not known that, after all, there was a last way out of it for you; though I hoped you would never—‘
“天使——如果我不知道，毕竟你还有最后一条出路，我就不应该让这一切继续与你结婚。”虽然我希望你永远不会——”

Her voice grew husky.
她的声音变得沙哑。

‘A last way?’
“最后一条路？”

‘I mean, to get rid of me. You CAN get rid of me.’
‘我的意思是，为了摆脱我。你可以摆脱我。

‘How?’
'如何？'

‘By divorcing me.’
“通过与我离婚。”

‘Good heavens—how can you be so simple! How can I divorce you?’
‘天啊——你怎么这么简单！我怎么能跟你离婚呢？

‘Can’t you—now I have told you? I thought my confession would give you grounds for that.’
‘现在我已经告诉你了，你不能吗？我以为我的坦白会给你提供这样的理由。

‘O Tess—you are too, too—childish—unformed—crude, I suppose! I don’t know what you are. You don’t understand the law—you don’t understand!’
“噢，苔丝——我想，你太、太——幼稚——不成熟——粗鲁！我不知道你是什么。你不明白法律——你不明白！”

‘What—you cannot?’
“什么——你不能？”

‘Indeed I cannot.’
“我确实不能。”

A quick shame mixed with the misery upon his listener’s face.
听者脸上立刻浮现出羞愧与痛苦。

‘I thought—I thought,’ she whispered. ‘O, now I see how wicked I seem to you! Believe me—believe me, on my soul, I never thought but that you could! I hoped you would not; yet I believed, without a doubt, that you could cast me off if you were determined, and didn’t love me at—at—all!’
“我以为——我以为，”她低声说道。 ‘哦，现在我明白我在你眼中是多么邪恶了！相信我——相信我，我的灵魂，我从来没有想过你可以！我希望你不会；但我毫无疑问地相信，如果你下定决心，并且根本不爱我，你就可以抛弃我！

‘You were mistaken,’ he said.
“你错了，”他说。

‘O, then I ought to have done it, to have done it last night! But I hadn’t the courage. That’s just like me!’
‘哦，那我就应该这么做，昨晚就应该这么做！但我没有勇气。这就像我一样！

‘The courage to do what?’
“有勇气做什么？”

As she did not answer he took her by the hand.
见她没有回答，他就握住了她的手。

‘What were you thinking of doing?’ he inquired.
“你想做什么？”他问道。

‘Of putting an end to myself.’
“结束我自己。”

‘When?’
'什么时候？'

She writhed under this inquisitorial manner of his. ‘Last night,’ she answered.
她在他这种询问式的态度下感到痛苦不已。 “昨晚，”她回答。

‘Where?’
'在哪里？'

‘Under your mistletoe.’
“在你的槲寄生下。”

‘My good—! How?’ he asked sternly.
‘我的天啊——！怎么办？”他严肃地问道。

‘I’ll tell you, if you won’t be angry with me!’ she said, shrinking. ‘It was with the cord of my box. But I could not—do the last thing! I was afraid that it might cause a scandal to your name.’
“如果你不生我的气的话，我就告诉你！”她退缩着说道。 “是用我盒子的绳子。”但我做不到——做最后一件事！我担心这会给你的名声带来丑闻。

The unexpected quality of this confession, wrung from her, and not volunteered, shook him perceptibly. But he still held her, and, letting his glance fall from her face downwards, he said, ‘Now, listen to this. You must not dare to think of such a horrible thing! How could you! You will promise me as your husband to attempt that no more.’
这番坦白是从她嘴里逼出来的，而不是她主动提出的，其出乎意料的性质让他明显地感到震惊。但他仍然抱着她，目光从她的脸上落下来，说道：“现在，听听这个。”这么可怕的事情你绝对不敢想！你怎么能！作为你的丈夫，你要向我保证不再尝试这样做。

‘I am ready to promise. I saw how wicked it was.’
‘我准备好做出承诺了。我看到了这是多么邪恶。

‘Wicked! The idea was unworthy of you beyond description.’
'邪恶！这个想法根本不值得你去描述。

‘But, Angel,’ she pleaded, enlarging her eyes in calm unconcern upon him, ‘it was thought of entirely on your account—to set you free without the scandal of the divorce that I thought you would have to get. I should never have dreamt of doing it on mine. However, to do it with my own hand is too good for me, after all. It is you, my ruined husband, who ought to strike the blow. I think I should love you more, if that were possible, if you could bring yourself to do it, since there’s no other way of escape for ‘ee. I feel I am so utterly worthless! So very greatly in the way!’
“但是，安吉尔，”她恳求道，平静地睁大眼睛看着他，“这完全是为了你的缘故——让你自由，而不让我认为你必须离婚的丑闻。”我从来不应该梦想在我的身上做这件事。不过，用自己的双手来做，毕竟对我来说太好了。是你，我被毁的丈夫，该出击的。我想我应该更爱你，如果可能的话，如果你能让自己这么做，因为“ee”没有其他的逃避方式。我觉得我真是一文不值！非常重要！”

‘Ssh!’
“嘘！”

‘Well, since you say no, I won’t. I have no wish opposed to yours.’
‘好吧，既然你都说不，那我就不干了。我没有反对你的愿望。

He knew this to be true enough. Since the desperation of the night her activities had dropped to zero, and there was no further rashness to be feared.
他知道这是真的。自从那晚的绝望之后，她的活动量就降到了零，再也没有什么可害怕的了。

Tess tried to busy herself again over the breakfast-table with more or less success, and they sat down both on the same side, so that their glances did not meet. There was at first something awkward in hearing each other eat and drink, but this could not be escaped; moreover, the amount of eating done was small on both sides. Breakfast over, he rose, and telling her the hour at which he might be expected to dinner, went off to the miller’s in a mechanical pursuance of the plan of studying that business, which had been his only practical reason for coming here.
苔丝试图再次在早餐桌上忙碌起来，或多或少成功了，他们俩坐在同一边，这样他们的目光就不会相遇。起初，听到彼此吃喝的声音，有些尴尬，但这是无法逃避的。而且双方吃的量都很少。早餐结束后，他起身，告诉她他可能会吃晚饭的时间，然后就去磨坊主那里，机械地执行着研究这项业务的计划，这是他来这里的唯一实际原因。

When he was gone Tess stood at the window, and presently saw his form crossing the great stone bridge which conducted to the mill premises. He sank behind it, crossed the railway beyond, and disappeared. Then, without a sigh, she turned her attention to the room, and began clearing the table and setting it in order.
他走后，苔丝站在窗前，不久就看到他的身影正跨过那座通向磨坊的大石桥。他沉到了它后面，越过远处的铁路，消失了。然后，她没有叹息，将注意力转向房间，开始清理桌子并收拾整齐。

The charwoman soon came. Her presence was at first a strain upon Tess, but afterwards an alleviation. At half-past twelve she left her assistant alone in the kitchen, and, returning to the sitting-room, waited for the reappearance of Angel’s form behind the bridge.
很快，女佣就来了。她的出现起初给苔丝带来了压力，但后来却有所缓解。十二点半，她把助手留在厨房里，自己回到起居室，等待安吉尔的身影再次出现在桥后。

About one he showed himself. Her face flushed, although he was a quarter of a mile off. She ran to the kitchen to get the dinner served by the time he should enter. He went first to the room where they had washed their hands together the day before, and as he entered the sitting-room the dish-covers rose from the dishes as if by his own motion.
关于他自己展示的一件事。尽管距离他还有四分之一英里，她的脸却涨得通红。当他进来时，她跑到厨房去准备晚餐。他先去了前一天他们一起洗手的房间，当他走进客厅时，碗碟盖仿佛是他自己的动作一样从碗碟上升了起来。

‘How punctual!’ he said.
“真准时！”他说。

‘Yes. I saw you coming over the bridge,’ said she.
'是的。我看见你从桥上过来了，”她说。

The meal was passed in commonplace talk of what he had been doing during the morning at the Abbey Mill, of the methods of bolting and the old-fashioned machinery, which he feared would not enlighten him greatly on modern improved methods, some of it seeming to have been in use ever since the days it ground for the monks in the adjoining conventual buildings—now a heap of ruins. He left the house again in the course of an hour, coming home at dusk, and occupying himself through the evening with his papers. She feared she was in the way and, when the old woman was gone, retired to the kitchen, where she made herself busy as well as she could for more than an hour.
这顿饭是在平常的谈话中谈论他早上在修道院磨坊所做的事情，螺栓连接的方法和老式机械，他担心这些不会让他对现代改进的方法有很大的启发，其中一些似乎是自从它为修道士们在毗邻的修道院建筑（现在是一堆废墟）中修建以来，它就一直在使用。一个小时后，他再次离开家，黄昏时分回到家，整个晚上都在处理文件。她担心自己会妨碍她，等老妇人走后，她就退到厨房，在那里她尽可能地忙碌了一个多小时。

Clare’s shape appeared at the door. ‘You must not work like this,’ he said. ‘You are not my servant; you are my wife.’
克莱尔的身影出现在门口。 “你不可以这样工作，”他说。 ‘你不是我的仆人；你是我的妻子。

She raised her eyes, and brightened somewhat. ‘I may think myself that—indeed?’ she murmured, in piteous raillery. ‘You mean in name! Well, I don’t want to be anything more.’
她抬起眼，眸光有些明亮。 “我自己可能会这么想——确实如此？”她低声说道，语气可怜兮兮的嘲笑。 ‘你是说名义上的！好吧，我不想再做任何事了。

‘You MAY think so, Tess! You are. What do you mean?’
“你可能会这么想，苔丝！你是。你是什​​么意思？'

‘I don’t know,’ she said hastily, with tears in her accents. ‘I thought I—because I am not respectable, I mean. I told you I thought I was not respectable enough long ago—and on that account I didn’t want to marry you, only—only you urged me!’
“我不知道，”她急忙说道，语气中带着泪水。 “我想我——因为我不值得尊敬，我是说。我早就告诉过你，我认为自己不够受人尊敬——因此我才不想嫁给你，只是——只是你催促我！

She broke into sobs, and turned her back to him. It would almost have won round any man but Angel Clare. Within the remote depths of his constitution, so gentle and affectionate as he was in general, there lay hidden a hard logical deposit, like a vein of metal in a soft loam, which turned the edge of everything that attempted to traverse it. It had blocked his acceptance of the Church; it blocked his acceptance of Tess. Moreover, his affection itself was less fire than radiance, and, with regard to the other sex, when he ceased to believe he ceased to follow: contrasting in this with many impressionable natures, who remain sensuously infatuated with what they intellectually despise. He waited till her sobbing ceased.
她突然抽泣起来，转身背对着他。除了安吉尔·克莱尔之外，它几乎可以赢得任何人的青睐。在他的体质深处，虽然他总体上是那么温柔和深情，但隐藏着一种坚硬的逻辑沉积物，就像软壤土中的金属矿脉一样，它扭转了试图穿越它的一切的边缘。这阻碍了他接受教会。这阻碍了他接受苔丝。此外，他的感情本身与其说是火焰，不如说是光辉，而且，对于异性，当他不再相信时，他就不再追随：这与许多易受影响的人形成鲜明对比，他们仍然在感性上迷恋于他们在理智上所鄙视的东西。他一直等到她的抽泣停止。

‘I wish half the women in England were as respectable as you,’ he said, in an ebullition of bitterness against womankind in general. ‘It isn’t a question of respectability, but one of principle!’
“我希望英国一半的女性都像你一样受人尊敬，”他说道，语气中充满了对女性的怨恨。 “这不是尊重的问题，而是原则的问题！”

He spoke such things as these and more of a kindred sort to her, being still swayed by the antipathetic wave which warps direct souls with such persistence when once their vision finds itself mocked by appearances. There was, it is true, underneath, a back current of sympathy through which a woman of the world might have conquered him. But Tess did not think of this; she took everything as her deserts, and hardly opened her mouth. The firmness of her devotion to him was indeed almost pitiful; quick-tempered as she naturally was, nothing that he could say made her unseemly; she sought not her own; was not provoked; thought no evil of his treatment of her. She might just now have been Apostolic Charity herself returned to a self-seeking modern world.
他对她说了诸如此类的话，而且更多的是类似的话，当他们的视力发现自己被外表嘲笑时，仍然被反感浪潮所左右，这种反感浪潮以如此持久的方式扭曲直接的灵魂。诚然，内心深处隐藏着一股同情心，一个世俗的女人可能会通过这种同情心征服他。但苔丝没有想到这一点。她视一切为应得，几乎不开口。她对他的忠诚确实近乎可怜。尽管她生性脾气暴躁，但他所说的任何话都不会令她不体面。她不寻求自己的；没有被激怒；认为他对待她并没有什么坏处。她可能刚刚被使徒慈善机构自己带回了一个自私自利的现代世界。

This evening, night, and morning were passed precisely as the preceding ones had been passed. On one, and only one, occasion did she—the formerly free and independent Tess—venture to make any advances. It was on the third occasion of his starting after a meal to go out to the flour-mill. As he was leaving the table he said ‘Goodbye,’ and she replied in the same words, at the same time inclining her mouth in the way of his. He did not avail himself of the invitation, saying, as he turned hastily aside—
这晚、一夜、一早的过去与之前的一模一样。只有一次，而且只有一次，她——以前自由独立的苔丝——冒险做出了任何进展。这是他第三次饭后出发去面粉厂。当他离开餐桌时，他说“再见”，她也用同样的话回答，同时将嘴向他的方向倾斜。他没有接受邀请，一边急忙转过身一边说道——

‘I shall be home punctually.’
“我会准时回家的。”

Tess shrank into herself as if she had been struck. Often enough had he tried to reach those lips against her consent—often had he said gaily that her mouth and breath tasted of the butter and eggs and milk and honey on which she mainly lived, that he drew sustenance from them, and other follies of that sort. But he did not care for them now. He observed her sudden shrinking, and said gently—
苔丝缩了缩身子，仿佛受到了打击。他常常不顾她的同意而试图触碰她的嘴唇——他常常兴高采烈地说，她的嘴和呼吸尝起来有她主要赖以生存的黄油、鸡蛋、牛奶和蜂蜜的味道，他从这些东西中获取食物，以及其他愚蠢的行为。那种。但他现在不关心他们了。他看着她突然退缩的样子，轻轻说道——

‘You know, I have to think of a course. It was imperative that we should stay together a little while, to avoid the scandal to you that would have resulted from our immediate parting. But you must see it is only for form’s sake.’
“你知道，我必须想出一个办法。我们必须待在一起一段时间，以免我们立即分手而给你带来丑闻。但你必须看到这只是为了形式。

‘Yes,’ said Tess absently.
“是的，”苔丝心不在焉地说。

He went out, and on his way to the mill stood still, and wished for a moment that he had responded yet more kindly, and kissed her once at least.
他出去了，在去磨坊的路上一动不动地站着，有那么一刻他希望自己的反应更加友善，至少吻了她一次。

Thus they lived through this despairing day or two; in the same house, truly; but more widely apart than before they were lovers. It was evident to her that he was, as he had said, living with paralyzed activities in his endeavour to think of a plan of procedure. She was awe-stricken to discover such determination under such apparent flexibility. His consistency was, indeed, too cruel. She no longer expected forgiveness now. More than once she thought of going away from him during his absence at the mill; but she feared that this, instead of benefiting him, might be the means of hampering and humiliating him yet more if it should become known.
他们就这样度过了绝望的一两天。确实，在同一所房子里；但他们之间的距离比恋人之前更加遥远。她很明显，正如他所说，他在努力思考一个程序计划时一直处于瘫痪状态。她惊讶地发现，在如此明显的灵活性下，却有如此坚定的决心。他的一贯性确实太残酷了。她现在不再期待宽恕。当他不在工厂时，她不止一次地想过离开他。但她担心，如果这件事被人知道，不但不会给他带来好处，反而会进一步阻碍和羞辱他。

Meanwhile Clare was meditating, verily. His thought had been unsuspended; he was becoming ill with thinking; eaten out with thinking, withered by thinking; scourged out of all his former pulsating, flexuous domesticity. He walked about saying to himself, ‘What’s to be done—what’s to be done?’ and by chance she overheard him. It caused her to break the reserve about their future which had hitherto prevailed.
与此同时，克莱尔确实在冥想。他的思绪没有悬念。他开始思考问题了。因思而食，因思而枯；他从以前充满活力、灵活多变的家庭生活中被彻底抛弃了。他一边走一边自言自语：“要做什么——要做什么？”偶然的机会，她听到了他的声音。这使她打破了迄今为止对他们的未来的保留态度。

‘I suppose—you are not going to live with me—long, are you, Angel?’ she asked, the sunk corners of her mouth betraying how purely mechanical were the means by which she retained that expression of chastened calm upon her face.
“我想——你不会和我一起生活太久了，是吗，安吉尔？”她问道，她的嘴角凹陷，暴露出她脸上保持那种受过训练的平静表情的方式是多么机械。

‘I cannot’ he said, ‘without despising myself, and what is worse, perhaps, despising you. I mean, of course, cannot live with you in the ordinary sense. At present, whatever I feel, I do not despise you. And, let me speak plainly, or you may not see all my difficulties. How can we live together while that man lives?—he being your husband in nature, and not I. If he were dead it might be different... Besides, that’s not all the difficulty; it lies in another consideration—one bearing upon the future of other people than ourselves. Think of years to come, and children being born to us, and this past matter getting known—for it must get known. There is not an uttermost part of the earth but somebody comes from it or goes to it from elsewhere. Well, think of wretches of our flesh and blood growing up under a taunt which they will gradually get to feel the full force of with their expanding years. What an awakening for them! What a prospect! Can you honestly say ‘Remain’ after contemplating this contingency? Don’t you think we had better endure the ills we have than fly to others?’
他说：“我不能不鄙视自己，更糟糕的是，也许还要鄙视你。”我的意思是，当然，不能和你普通意义上的住在一起。目前，无论我的感受如何，我并不鄙视你。而且，让我直白地说出来，不然你可能看不到我所有的难处。那个男人活着，我们怎么能生活在一起呢？——他本质上是你的丈夫，而不是我。如果他死了，情况可能会不同……而且，这还不是困难的全部；困难还不止这些。它存在于另一个考虑之中——关系到其他人的未来而不是我们自己。想象一下，在未来的岁月里，我们会生下孩子，过去的事情会被人知道——因为它必须被人知道。地球的尽头并不存在，有人来自那里，或者从别处去往那里。好吧，想想我们的血肉之躯中那些在嘲笑中长大的可怜人，随着年龄的增长，他们将逐渐感受到这种嘲笑的全部力量。对他们来说这是多么大的觉醒啊！多么有前景啊！在考虑到这种意外情况后，你能诚实地说“留下来”吗？你不认为我们最好忍受自己的疾病，而不是飞到别人那里去吗？

Her eyelids, weighted with trouble, continued drooping as before.
她的眼睑因烦恼而沉重，继续像以前一样下垂。

‘I cannot say ‘Remain,’’ she answered, ‘I cannot; I had not thought so far.’
“我不能说‘留下’，”她回答道，“我不能；到目前为止我还没有想到。

Tess’s feminine hope—shall we confess it?—had been so obstinately recuperative as to revive in her surreptitious visions of a domiciliary intimacy continued long enough to break down his coldness even against his judgement. Though unsophisticated in the usual sense, she was not incomplete; and it would have denoted deficiency of womanhood if she had not instinctively known what an argument lies in propinquity. Nothing else would serve her, she knew, if this failed. It was wrong to hope in what was of the nature of strategy, she said to herself: yet that sort of hope she could not extinguish. His last representation had now been made, and it was, as she said, a new view. She had truly never thought so far as that, and his lucid picture of possible offspring who would scorn her was one that brought deadly convictions to an honest heart which was humanitarian to its centre. Sheer experience had already taught her that in some circumstances there was one thing better than to lead a good life, and that was to be saved from leading any life whatever. Like all who have been previsioned by suffering, she could, in the words of M. Sully-Prudhomme, hear a penal sentence in the fiat, ‘You shall be born,’ particularly if addressed to potential issue of hers.
苔丝的女性希望——我们承认这一点吗？——一直如此顽固地恢复，以至于在她对家庭亲密关系的秘密幻想中复活，持续了足够长的时间，以打破他的冷漠，甚至不顾他的判断。尽管她在通常意义上并不成熟，但她并不是不完整的。如果她没有本能地知道附近有什么争论，那就表明她缺乏女性气质。她知道，如果这件事失败了，那么其他的一切对她来说都无济于事。她对自己说，寄希望于战略性质的东西是错误的，但她无法消除这种希望。他的最后一次陈述现已做出，正如她所说，这是一个新的观点。她真的从来没有这么想过，而他对可能的后代会蔑视她的清晰画面给一颗诚实的心带来了致命的信念，而这颗心的核心是人道主义。纯粹的经验已经告诉她，在某些情况下，有一件事比过上美好的生活更好，那就是摆脱任何生活。就像所有经历过苦难的人一样，用苏利·普吕多姆先生的话说，她可以在法令中听到一句刑罚：“你将出生”，特别是如果针对她的潜在问题的话。

Yet such is the vulpine slyness of Dame Nature, that, till now, Tess had been hoodwinked by her love for Clare into forgetting it might result in vitalizations that would inflict upon others what she had bewailed as misfortune to herself.
然而，大自然的狡猾狡猾，直到现在，苔丝一直被她对克莱尔的爱所蒙蔽，忘记了它可能会带来活力，而这种活力会给别人带来同样的痛苦，而她曾哀叹自己是不幸的。

She therefore could not withstand his argument. But with the self-combating proclivity of the supersensitive, an answer thereto arose in Clare’s own mind, and he almost feared it. It was based on her exceptional physical nature; and she might have used it promisingly. She might have added besides: ‘On an Australian upland or Texan plain, who is to know or care about my misfortunes, or to reproach me or you?’ Yet, like the majority of women, she accepted the momentary presentment as if it were the inevitable. And she may have been right. The intuitive heart of woman knoweth not only its own bitterness, but its husband’s, and even if these assumed reproaches were not likely to be addressed to him or to his by strangers, they might have reached his ears from his own fastidious brain.
因此，她无法抗拒他的辩解。但由于超敏感者的自我斗争倾向，克莱尔自己的脑海中出现了一个答案，他几乎害怕它。这是基于她非凡的身体素质。她可能会很有前途地使用它。她可能还补充道：“在澳大利亚高地或得克萨斯平原上，谁会知道或关心我的不幸，或责备我或你？”然而，像大多数妇女一样，她接受了这短暂的呈现，就好像它是不可避免的。她可能是对的。女人的直觉心不仅知道自己的痛苦，也知道丈夫的痛苦，即使这些假定的责备不太可能是对他或陌生人说的，它们也可能从他自己挑剔的大脑中传到他的耳朵里。

It was the third day of the estrangement. Some might risk the odd paradox that with more animalism he would have been the nobler man. We do not say it. Yet Clare’s love was doubtless ethereal to a fault, imaginative to impracticability. With these natures, corporal presence is something less appealing than corporal absence; the latter creating an ideal presence that conveniently drops the defects of the real. She found that her personality did not plead her cause so forcibly as she had anticipated. The figurative phrase was true: she was another woman than the one who had excited his desire.
这是分手的第三天。有些人可能会冒着奇怪的悖论的风险：如果他有更多的兽性，他就会成为更高贵的人。我们不说。然而，克莱尔的爱无疑是空灵到了错误，富有想象力到了不切实际。由于这些性质，肉体的存在不如肉体的缺席那么吸引人。后者创造了一种理想的存在，可以方便地消除真实的缺陷。她发现自己的性格并没有像她预想的那样强烈地为自己的事业辩护。这句比喻是对的：她是另一个女人，而不是激发他的欲望的女人。

‘I have thought over what you say,’ she remarked to him, moving her forefinger over the tablecloth, her other hand, which bore the ring that mocked them both, supporting her forehead. ‘It is quite true, all of it; it must be. You must go away from me.’
“我已经考虑过你说的话了，”她对他说，食指在桌布上移动，另一只手支撑着她的额头，那只手戴着嘲笑他们俩的戒指。 “这一切都是千真万确的；一定是。你必须离开我。

‘But what can you do?’
'但你能做什么呢？'

‘I can go home.’
“我可以回家了。”

Clare had not thought of that.
克莱尔没有想到这一点。

‘Are you sure?’ he inquired.
“你确定吗？”他问道。

‘Quite sure. We ought to part, and we may as well get it past and done. You once said that I was apt to win men against their better judgement; and if I am constantly before your eyes I may cause you to change your plans in opposition to your reason and wish; and afterwards your repentance and my sorrow will be terrible.’
'非常肯定。我们该分手了，我们还是让它过去吧。你曾经说过，我很容易赢得人们的青睐，但他们的判断力并不好。如果我经常出现在你眼前，我可能会让你改变你的计划，违背你的理性和愿望；然后你的悔改和我的悲伤将会是可怕的。

‘And you would like to go home?’ he asked.
“你想回家吗？”他问道。

‘I want to leave you, and go home.’
“我想离开你，回家。”

‘Then it shall be so.’
“那就这样吧。”

Though she did not look up at him, she started. There was a difference between the proposition and the covenant, which she had felt only too quickly.
尽管她没有抬头看他，但她还是吃了一惊。她很快就感觉到了提议和契约之间的差异。

‘I feared it would come to this,’ she murmured, her countenance meekly fixed. ‘I don’t complain, Angel, I—I think it best. What you said has quite convinced me. Yes, though nobody else should reproach me if we should stay together, yet somewhen, years hence, you might get angry with me for any ordinary matter, and knowing what you do of my bygones, you yourself might be tempted to say words, and they might be overheard, perhaps by my own children. O, what only hurts me now would torture and kill me then! I will go—to-morrow.’
“我担心事情会发展成这样。”她低声说道，脸上的表情温顺地一动不动。 “我不抱怨，安吉尔，我——我认为这样最好。你说的已经让我很信服了。是的，虽然如果我们在一起的话，没有人会责备我，但多年后的某个时候，你可能会因为任何平常的事情而对我生气，并且知道你对我的过去做了什么，你自己可能会忍不住说些话，并且他们可能会被无意中听到，也许是被我自己的孩子听到。哦，现在只伤害我的东西到那时就会折磨我并杀死我！我明天会去。'

‘And I shall not stay here. Though I didn’t like to initiate it, I have seen that it was advisable we should part—at least for a while, till I can better see the shape that things have taken, and can write to you.’
‘而且我不会留在这里。虽然我不喜欢主动提出分手，但我认为我们应该分开——至少暂时分开，直到我能更好地了解事情的发展，并可以写信给你。

Tess stole a glance at her husband. He was pale, even tremulous; but, as before, she was appalled by the determination revealed in the depths of this gentle being she had married—the will to subdue the grosser to the subtler emotion, the substance to the conception, the flesh to the spirit. Propensities, tendencies, habits, were as dead leaves upon the tyrannous wind of his imaginative ascendency.
苔丝偷偷看了她丈夫一眼。他脸色苍白，甚至有些颤抖。但是，和以前一样，她对她所嫁的这个温柔的人内心深处所表现出的决心感到震惊——他愿意征服粗俗的情感，征服更微妙的情感，征服实质的观念，征服肉体的精神。倾向、倾向、习惯，就像他想象力优势的暴风中的枯叶一样。

He may have observed her look, for he explained—
他可能观察到了她的表情，因为他解释说——

‘I think of people more kindly when I am away from them”; adding cynically, ‘God knows; perhaps we will shake down together some day, for weariness; thousands have done it!’
“当我远离他人时，我会更加友善地看待他们”；愤世嫉俗地补充道，“上帝知道；”也许有一天我们会因为疲倦而一起摇晃；成千上万的人已经做到了！”

That day he began to pack up, and she went upstairs and began to pack also. Both knew that it was in their two minds that they might part the next morning for ever, despite the gloss of assuaging conjectures thrown over their proceeding because they were of the sort to whom any parting which has an air of finality is a torture. He knew, and she knew, that, though the fascination which each had exercised over the other—on her part independently of accomplishments—would probably in the first days of their separation be even more potent than ever, time must attenuate that effect; the practical arguments against accepting her as a housemate might pronounce themselves more strongly in the boreal light of a remoter view. Moreover, when two people are once parted—have abandoned a common domicile and a common environment—new growths insensibly bud upward to fill each vacated place; unforeseen accidents hinder intentions, and old plans are forgotten.
那天他开始收拾行李，她也上楼开始收拾行李。两人都知道，在他们的心里，他们可能会在第二天早上永远分开，尽管他们的行为充满了安慰性的猜测，因为对他们来说，任何一种最终的分离都是一种折磨。他知道，她也知道，虽然两人对对方的迷恋——就她而言，与成就无关——可能在他们分开的最初几天里比以往任何时候都更加强烈，但时间一定会减弱这种影响；从更遥远的角度来看，反对接受她作为室友的实际理由可能会更加强烈。而且，当两个人一旦分开，放弃了共同的住所和共同的环境时，新的生长物就会不知不觉地长出来，填补每一个空出的地方；不可预见的意外阻碍了意图，旧的计划被遗忘。

XXXVII
三十七

Midnight came and passed silently, for there was nothing to announce it in the Valley of the Froom.
午夜悄无声息地来了又过去，因为弗鲁姆谷里没有什么可宣布的。

Not long after one o’clock there was a slight creak in the darkened farmhouse once the mansion of the d’Urbervilles. Tess, who used the upper chamber, heard it and awoke. It had come from the corner step of the staircase, which, as usual, was loosely nailed. She saw the door of her bedroom open, and the figure of her husband crossed the stream of moonlight with a curiously careful tread. He was in his shirt and trousers only, and her first flush of joy died when she perceived that his eyes were fixed in an unnatural stare on vacancy. When he reached the middle of the room he stood still and murmured in tones of indescribable sadness—
一点钟过后不久，曾经是德伯家宅邸的黑暗农舍里传来了轻微的吱吱声。住在上层房间的苔丝听到了声音，就醒了。它来自楼梯拐角的台阶，楼梯和往常一样钉得松松垮垮。她看见卧室的门打开了，丈夫的身影迈着令人好奇的小心翼翼的步伐穿过月光的流水。他只穿着衬衫和裤子，当她发现他的眼睛不自然地盯着空洞时，她最初的喜悦就消失了。当他走到房间中央时，他一动不动地站着，用难以形容的悲伤的语气低声说道：

‘Dead! dead! dead!’
'死的！死的！死的！'

Under the influence of any strongly-disturbing force, Clare would occasionally walk in his sleep, and even perform strange feats, such as he had done on the night of their return from market just before their marriage, when he re-enacted in his bedroom his combat with the man who had insulted her. Tess saw that continued mental distress had wrought him into that somnambulistic state now.
在任何强烈干扰力的影响下，克莱尔偶尔会在睡梦中行走，甚至做出一些奇怪的事情，比如他们结婚前从市场回来的那天晚上，他在卧室里重演了他所做的事情。他与侮辱她的男人的战斗。苔丝看出，持续的精神困扰使他现在陷入了梦游的状态。

Her loyal confidence in him lay so deep down in her heart, that, awake or asleep, he inspired her with no sort of personal fear. If he had entered with a pistol in his hand he would scarcely have disturbed her trust in his protectiveness.
她对他的忠诚信任深植于她的内心深处，无论是醒着还是睡着，他都激励着她，没有任何个人的恐惧。如果他手里拿着手枪进来，也不会影响她对他的保护的信任。

Clare came close, and bent over her. ‘Dead, dead, dead!’ he murmured.
克莱尔走近她，弯下腰。 “死了，死了，死了！”他低声说道。

After fixedly regarding her for some moments with the same gaze of unmeasurable woe, he bent lower, enclosed her in his arms, and rolled her in the sheet as in a shroud. Then lifting her from the bed with as much respect as one would show to a dead body, he carried her across the room, murmuring—
用同样无法估量的悲伤的目光定定地看了她一会儿，然后他弯下腰，将她抱在怀里，把她裹在床单里，就像裹在裹尸布里一样。然后他怀着对死尸的尊重，把她从床上抱起来，抱着她穿过房间，低声说道——

‘My poor, poor Tess—my dearest, darling Tess! So sweet, so good, so true!’
“我可怜的、可怜的苔丝——我最亲爱的、亲爱的苔丝！如此甜蜜，如此美好，如此真实！

The words of endearment, withheld so severely in his waking hours, were inexpressibly sweet to her forlorn and hungry heart. If it had been to save her weary life she would not, by moving or struggling, have put an end to the position she found herself in. Thus she lay in absolute stillness, scarcely venturing to breathe, and, wondering what he was going to do with her, suffered herself to be borne out upon the landing.
那些在他醒着的时候如此严厉地隐瞒着的爱意之言，对她孤独而饥饿的心来说却是难以言表的甜蜜。如果是为了挽救她疲惫的生活，她就不会通过移动或挣扎来结束自己所处的位置。因此，她一动不动地躺着，几乎不敢呼吸，并且想知道他会做什么。和她一起做，让自己在楼梯平台上被支撑。

‘My wife—dead, dead!’ he said.
“我的妻子——死了，死了！”他说。

He paused in his labours for a moment to lean with her against the banister. Was he going to throw her down? Self-solicitude was near extinction in her, and in the knowledge that he had planned to depart on the morrow, possibly for always, she lay in his arms in this precarious position with a sense rather of luxury than of terror. If they could only fall together, and both be dashed to pieces, how fit, how desirable.
他暂停了一会儿，和她一起靠在栏杆上。他要把她扔下去吗？她的自我关怀几乎消失了，当她知道他计划明天离开，甚至可能永远离开时，她以这种不稳定的姿势躺在他的怀里，带着一种奢侈而不是恐惧的感觉。如果他们只能一起倒下，然后双双摔成碎片，那是多么的契合，多么的令人向往。

However, he did not let her fall, but took advantage of the support of the handrail to imprint a kiss upon her lips—lips in the day-time scorned. Then he clasped her with a renewed firmness of hold, and descended the staircase. The creak of the loose stair did not awaken him, and they reached the ground-floor safely. Freeing one of his hands from his grasp of her for a moment, he slid back the door-bar and passed out, slightly striking his stockinged toe against the edge of the door. But this he seemed not to mind, and, having room for extension in the open air, he lifted her against his shoulder, so that he could carry her with ease, the absence of clothes taking much from his burden. Thus he bore her off the premises in the direction of the river a few yards distant.
但他并没有让她摔倒，而是借助扶手的支撑，在她的唇上印下一吻——白天的唇上带着蔑视。然后他重新紧紧地抱住她，下了楼梯。松动的楼梯发出的吱吱声并没有吵醒他，他们安全到达了底层。他暂时松开了抓住她的一只手，然后滑回门栏，昏了过去，穿着袜子的脚趾轻轻地撞到了门边。但他似乎并不介意，而且，在露天有伸展的空间，他把她抱在肩上，这样他就可以轻松地抱着她，没有衣服减轻了他的负担。于是他带着她离开了房子，朝几码远的河边方向走去。

His ultimate intention, if he had any, she had not yet divined; and she found herself conjecturing on the matter as a third person might have done. So easefully had she delivered her whole being up to him that it pleased her to think he was regarding her as his absolute possession, to dispose of as he should choose. It was consoling, under the hovering terror of to-morrow’s separation, to feel that he really recognized her now as his wife Tess, and did not cast her off, even if in that recognition he went so far as to arrogate to himself the right of harming her.
他的最终意图，如果有的话，她还没有猜到。她发现自己对这件事的猜测就像第三者可能会做的那样。她如此轻松地将自己的整个生命交给了他，以至于她很高兴地认为他将她视为自己的绝对财产，可以随心所欲地处置。令人安慰的是，在明天分离的笼罩着的恐惧之下，他感到自己现在真的承认她是他的妻子苔丝，并且没有抛弃她，即使在这种认识中他甚至为自己赋予了权利。伤害她。

Ah! now she knew what he was dreaming of—that Sunday morning when he had borne her along through the water with the other dairymaids, who had loved him nearly as much as she, if that were possible, which Tess could hardly admit. Clare did not cross the bridge with her, but proceeding several paces on the same side towards the adjoining mill, at length stood still on the brink of the river.
啊!现在她知道他的梦想是什么了——那个周日早上，他带着她和其他挤奶女工一起穿过了水，他们几乎和她一样爱他，如果可能的话，苔丝很难承认这一点。克莱尔没有和她一起过桥，而是在同一侧向毗邻的磨坊走了几步，最后在河边站定了。

Its waters, in creeping down these miles of meadowland, frequently divided, serpentining in purposeless curves, looping themselves around little islands that had no name, returning and re-embodying themselves as a broad main stream further on. Opposite the spot to which he had brought her was such a general confluence, and the river was proportionately voluminous and deep. Across it was a narrow foot-bridge; but now the autumn flood had washed the handrail away, leaving the bare plank only, which, lying a few inches above the speeding current, formed a giddy pathway for even steady heads; and Tess had noticed from the window of the house in the day-time young men walking across upon it as a feat in balancing. Her husband had possibly observed the same performance; anyhow, he now mounted the plank, and, sliding one foot forward, advanced along it.
它的水流沿着绵延数英里的草地缓缓流下，时常分开，蜿蜒蜿蜒，无目的地弯曲，环绕着那些无名的小岛，又在更远的地方返回并重新体现为一条宽阔的主流。他带她去的地方对面就是一个如此普遍的交汇处，河水也相应地宽广而深。对面是一座狭窄的人行桥。但现在秋天的洪水冲走了扶手，只剩下光秃秃的木板，木板位于湍急的水流之上几英寸处，形成了一条令人眼花缭乱的通道，即使是头脑清醒的人也可以看到。苔丝从房子的窗户里注意到白天的年轻人在上面行走是一项保持平衡的壮举。她的丈夫可能也观察到了同样的表现；不管怎样，他现在登上了木板，向前滑动一只脚，沿着木板前进。

Was he going to drown her? Probably he was. The spot was lonely, the river deep and wide enough to make such a purpose easy of accomplishment. He might drown her if he would; it would be better than parting to-morrow to lead severed lives.
他要淹死她吗？也许他是。这里地处偏僻，河水又深又宽，这样的目的很容易实现。如果他愿意的话，他可能会淹死她；这比明天就分开要好得多。

The swift stream raced and gyrated under them, tossing, distorting, and splitting the moon’s reflected face. Spots of froth travelled past, and intercepted weeds waved behind the piles. If they could both fall together into the current now, their arms would be so tightly clasped together that they could not be saved; they would go out of the world almost painlessly, and there would be no more reproach to her, or to him for marrying her. His last half-hour with her would have been a loving one, while if they lived till he awoke, his day-time aversion would return, and this hour would remain to be contemplated only as a transient dream.
湍急的溪流在他们脚下奔腾、旋转，将月亮的倒影翻腾、扭曲、撕裂。点点泡沫飘过，拦截的杂草在堆后面摇曳。如果他们现在一起掉进水流里，他们的手臂就会紧紧地握在一起，无法获救；他们几乎会毫无痛苦地离开这个世界，她也不会因为娶了她而受到任何责备。他和她在一起的最后半小时将是一段充满爱意的时光，而如果他们活到他醒来，他白天的厌恶感就会再次出现，而这一个小时将只能被视为一场短暂的梦。

The impulse stirred in her, yet she dared not indulge it, to make a movement that would have precipitated them both into the gulf. How she valued her own life had been proved; but his—she had no right to tamper with it. He reached the other side with her in safety.
她心里有一股冲动，但又不敢放纵，做出一个会让他们双双坠入深渊的动作。她如何珍惜自己的生命已经得到证明；但他的——她无权篡改。他带着她安全到达了对岸。

Here they were within a plantation which formed the Abbey grounds, and taking a new hold of her he went onward a few steps till they reached the ruined choir of the Abbey-church. Against the north wall was the empty stone coffin of an abbot, in which every tourist with a turn for grim humour was accustomed to stretch himself. In this Clare carefully laid Tess. Having kissed her lips a second time he breathed deeply, as if a greatly desired end were attained. Clare then lay down on the ground alongside, when he immediately fell into the deep dead slumber of exhaustion, and remained motionless as a log. The spurt of mental excitement which had produced the effort was now over.
他们来到了一个构成修道院场地的种植园内，他重新抓住了她，向前走了几步，直到他们到达了修道院教堂的唱诗班废墟。北墙靠着方丈的空石棺，每一个喜欢冷酷幽默的游客都习惯在里面舒展身体。克莱尔小心翼翼地把苔丝安葬在了这里。第二次亲吻她的嘴唇后，他深深地呼吸了一口气，仿佛达到了一个非常渴望的结局。克莱尔随后倒在了旁边的地上，他立刻就疲惫不堪地陷入了沉睡，像一根木头一样一动不动。产生这种努力的精神兴奋现在已经结束了。

Tess sat up in the coffin. The night, though dry and mild for the season, was more than sufficiently cold to make it dangerous for him to remain here long, in his half-clothed state. If he were left to himself he would in all probability stay there till the morning, and be chilled to certain death. She had heard of such deaths after sleep-walking. But how could she dare to awaken him, and let him know what he had been doing, when it would mortify him to discover his folly in respect of her? Tess, however, stepping out of her stone confine, shook him slightly, but was unable to arouse him without being violent. It was indispensable to do something, for she was beginning to shiver, the sheet being but a poor protection. Her excitement had in a measure kept her warm during the few minutes’ adventure; but that beatific interval was over.
苔丝在棺材里坐了起来。虽然这个季节的夜晚干燥而温和，但天气却非常寒冷，让他半裸地待在这里很危险。如果让他一个人呆着，他很可能会在那里呆到早上，然后冻死。她听说过这样的梦游死亡事件。但她怎么敢叫醒他，让他知道自己在做什么，如果发现自己对她的愚蠢行为会让他感到羞愧呢？然而，苔丝走出她的石头限制，轻轻摇晃了他，但无法在不暴力的情况下唤醒他。必须做点什么，因为她开始发抖，床单的保护作用很差。在这几分钟的冒险过程中，她的兴奋在一定程度上让她保持了温暖。但那个美好的时期已经结束了。

It suddenly occurred to her to try persuasion; and accordingly she whispered in his ear, with as much firmness and decision as she could summon—
她突然想到要去劝说；因此，她在他耳边低声说道，语气坚定而坚决——

‘Let us walk on, darling,’ at the same time taking him suggestively by the arm. To her relief, he unresistingly acquiesced; her words had apparently thrown him back into his dream, which thenceforward seemed to enter on a new phase, wherein he fancied she had risen as a spirit, and was leading him to Heaven. Thus she conducted him by the arm to the stone bridge in front of their residence, crossing which they stood at the manor-house door. Tess’s feet were quite bare, and the stones hurt her, and chilled her to the bone; but Clare was in his woollen stockings, and appeared to feel no discomfort.
“让我们继续走吧，亲爱的，”同时暗示性地抓住了他的手臂。他毫不犹豫地默许了，这让她松了口气。她的话显然把他带回了梦境，从此梦境似乎进入了一个新的阶段，他幻想她已经升为精灵，正在带领他前往天堂。于是她挽着他的手臂来到了他们住所前的石桥，穿过石桥，他们站在了庄园门口。苔丝光着脚，石头刺痛了她，让她彻骨寒冷。但克莱尔穿着羊毛袜，似乎没有感到任何不适。

There was no further difficulty. She induced him to lie down on his own sofa bed, and covered him up warmly, lighting a temporary fire of wood, to dry any dampness out of him. The noise of these attentions she thought might awaken him, and secretly wished that they might. But the exhaustion of his mind and body was such that he remained undisturbed.
没有进一步的困难。她引导他躺在自己的沙发床上，给他盖上温暖的被子，临时生起柴火，擦干他身上的湿气。她认为这些关注的噪音可能会吵醒他，并暗自希望如此。但他的身心疲惫不堪，却依然不受影响。

As soon as they met the next morning Tess divined that Angel knew little or nothing of how far she had been concerned in the night’s excursion, though, as regarded himself, he may have been aware that he had not lain still. In truth, he had awakened that morning from a sleep deep as annihilation; and during those first few moments in which the brain, like a Samson shaking himself, is trying its strength, he had some dim notion of an unusual nocturnal proceeding. But the realities of his situation soon displaced conjecture on the other subject.
第二天早上他们一见面，苔丝就推测安吉尔对她在晚上的旅行中所关心的程度知之甚少，甚至一无所知，不过，就他自己而言，他可能已经意识到他并没有躺着不动。事实上，那天早上他是从沉睡中醒来的。在最初的几分钟里，大脑像参孙一样摇晃着自己，正在尝试自己的力量，他隐隐约约地意识到这是一场不寻常的夜间活动。但他的现实情况很快就取代了对另一个问题的猜测。

He waited in expectancy to discern some mental pointing; he knew that if any intention of his, concluded over-night, did not vanish in the light of morning, it stood on a basis approximating to one of pure reason, even if initiated by impulse of feeling; that it was so far, therefore, to be trusted. He thus beheld in the pale morning light the resolve to separate from her; not as a hot and indignant instinct, but denuded of the passionateness which had made it scorch and burn; standing in its bones; nothing but a skeleton, but none the less there. Clare no longer hesitated.
他满怀期待地等待着辨别某些心理暗示。他知道，如果他的任何意图在一夜之间完成，并没有在早晨的光亮中消失，那么它就建立在接近纯粹理性的基础上，即使是由情感冲动发起的；因此，到目前为止，它是值得信赖的。因此，他在苍白的晨光中看到了与她分离的决心。不是一种炽热而愤怒的本能，而是剥夺了使它变得焦灼和燃烧的激情；骨子里屹立不倒；虽然只剩下一副骷髅，但仍然在那里。克莱尔不再犹豫。

At breakfast, and while they were packing the few remaining articles, he showed his weariness from the night’s effort so unmistakeably that Tess was on the point of revealing all that had happened; but the reflection that it would anger him, grieve him, stultify him, to know that he had instinctively manifested a fondness for her of which his common-sense did not approve, that his inclination had compromised his dignity when reason slept, again deterred her. It was too much like laughing at a man when sober for his erratic deeds during intoxication.
早餐时，当他们收拾剩下的几件物品时，他毫无疑问地表现出了一整夜的努力所带来的疲倦，以至于苔丝几乎要把发生的一切都说出来。但一想到他会本能地表现出对她的喜爱，而他的常识并不赞同，当理智沉睡时，他的这种倾向损害了他的尊严，这会让他愤怒、悲伤、愚蠢，这又让她望而却步。 。这太像嘲笑一个清醒时的人在醉酒时的古怪行为了。

It just crossed her mind, too, that he might have a faint recollection of his tender vagary, and was disinclined to allude to it from a conviction that she would take amatory advantage of the opportunity it gave her of appealing to him anew not to go.
她也突然想到，他可能对他温柔的反复无常有一丝记得，但她不愿意提及它，因为她相信她会利用这个机会再次呼吁他不要去。 。

He had ordered by letter a vehicle from the nearest town, and soon after breakfast it arrived. She saw in it the beginning of the end—the temporary end, at least, for the revelation of his tenderness by the incident of the night raised dreams of a possible future with him. The luggage was put on the top, and the man drove them off, the miller and the old waiting-woman expressing some surprise at their precipitate departure, which Clare attributed to his discovery that the mill-work was not of the modern kind which he wished to investigate, a statement that was true so far as it went. Beyond this there was nothing in the manner of their leaving to suggest a fiasco, or that they were not going together to visit friends.
他通过信件从最近的城镇订购了一辆车，早餐后不久，车就到了。她在其中看到了结局的开始——至少是暂时的结局，因为那天晚上的事件所暴露的他的温柔引发了与他可能的未来的梦想。行李被放在顶上，男人把他们赶走了，磨坊主和老女侍者对他们的匆忙离开表示有些惊讶，克莱尔将此归因于他发现磨坊不是他所认为的现代那种。希望进行调查，就目前而言，这一说法是正确的。除此之外，他们的离开并没有任何迹象表明他们会遭遇惨败，或者他们不会一起去拜访朋友。

Their route lay near the dairy from which they had started with such solemn joy in each other a few days back, and as Clare wished to wind up his business with Mr Crick, Tess could hardly avoid paying Mrs Crick a call at the same time, unless she would excite suspicion of their unhappy state.
他们的路线就在乳品厂附近，几天前他们就从那里开始了彼此的庄严欢乐，当克莱尔希望结束他与克里克先生的生意时，苔丝几乎无法避免同时给克里克太太打个电话，除非她会引起人们对他们不幸状况的怀疑。

To make the call as unobtrusive as possible, they left the carriage by the wicket leading down from the high road to the dairy-house, and descended the track on foot, side by side. The withy-bed had been cut, and they could see over the stumps the spot to which Clare had followed her when he pressed her to be his wife; to the left the enclosure in which she had been fascinated by his harp; and far away behind the cow-stalls the mead which had been the scene of their first embrace. The gold of the summer picture was now gray, the colours mean, the rich soil mud, and the river cold.
为了尽可能不引人注意，他们把马车停在从大路通向奶牛场的检票口处，然后并肩步行走下轨道。绒毛床已经被割断了，他们可以透过树桩看到克莱尔在他强迫她做他的妻子时跟踪她的地方。左边是她曾对他的竖琴着迷的围墙。牛栏后面远处的蜂蜜酒就是他们第一次拥抱的地方。夏日画卷的金色现在变成了灰色，颜色变得暗淡，土壤肥沃，河水寒冷。

Over the barton-gate the dairyman saw them, and came forward, throwing into his face the kind of jocularity deemed appropriate in Talbothays and its vicinity on the re-appearance of the newly-married. Then Mrs Crick emerged from the house, and several others of their old acquaintance, though Marian and Retty did not seem to be there.
奶牛场老板越过巴顿门看到了他们，便走上前来，脸上露出了一种在塔尔博塞斯及其附近地区适合新婚夫妇再次出现的玩笑。然后克里克夫人和其他几个老熟人从屋子里出来，不过玛丽安和雷蒂似乎并不在那里。

Tess valiantly bore their sly attacks and friendly humours, which affected her far otherwise than they supposed. In the tacit agreement of husband and wife to keep their estrangement a secret they behaved as would have been ordinary. And then, although she would rather there had been no word spoken on the subject, Tess had to hear in detail the story of Marian and Retty. The later had gone home to her father’s, and Marian had left to look for employment elsewhere. They feared she would come to no good.
苔丝勇敢地承受了他们的狡猾攻击和友善的幽默，这对她的影响远远超出了他们的想象。夫妻俩默契地保守着隔阂的秘密，他们的表现就像平常一样。然后，尽管苔丝宁愿不提这个话题，但她还是必须详细地听玛丽安和莱蒂的故事。后者回到了她父亲家，玛丽安则离开去别处寻找工作。他们担心她不会有好结果。

To dissipate the sadness of this recital Tess went and bade all her favourite cows goodbye, touching each of them with her hand, and as she and Clare stood side by side at leaving, as if united body and soul, there would have been something peculiarly sorry in their aspect to one who should have seen it truly; two limbs of one life, as they outwardly were, his arm touching hers, her skirts touching him, facing one way, as against all the dairy facing the other, speaking in their adieux as ‘we’, and yet sundered like the poles. Perhaps something unusually stiff and embarrassed in their attitude, some awkwardness in acting up to their profession of unity, different from the natural shyness of young couples, may have been apparent, for when they were gone Mrs Crick said to her husband—
为了驱散这场独奏会的悲伤，苔丝去向她最喜欢的所有奶牛道别，用手抚摸每一头奶牛，当她和克莱尔并肩站着离开时，仿佛身体和灵魂合二为一，会有一些奇特的东西。对于那些应该真正看到它的人来说，他们的这一面感到遗憾；一个生命的两个肢体，就像它们表面上的那样，他的手臂碰着她的手臂，她的裙子碰着他，面向一个方向，而不是所有乳制品都面向另一个方向，在告别时说“我们”，但又像电线杆一样分开。也许他们的态度异常僵硬和尴尬，在履行他们的团结承诺时有些尴尬，这与年轻夫妇天生的害羞不同，可能是显而易见的，因为当他们离开时，克里克太太对她的丈夫说：

‘How onnatural the brightness of her eyes did seem, and how they stood like waxen images and talked as if they were in a dream! Didn’t it strike ‘ee that ‘twas so? Tess had always sommat strange in her, and she’s not now quite like the proud young bride of a well-be-doing man.’
“她的眼睛看起来多么明亮，多么自然，它们像蜡像一样站着，说话就像在梦中一样！”难道你不觉得原来是这样吗？苔丝一直很奇怪，她现在不太像一个富裕男人的骄傲的年轻新娘。

They re-entered the vehicle, and were driven along the roads towards Weatherbury and Stagfoot Lane, till they reached the Lane inn, where Clare dismissed the fly and man. They rested here a while, and entering the Vale were next driven onward towards her home by a stranger who did not know their relations. At a midway point, when Nuttlebury had been passed, and where there were cross-roads, Clare stopped the conveyance and said to Tess that if she meant to return to her mother’s house it was here that he would leave her. As they could not talk with freedom in the driver’s presence he asked her to accompany him for a few steps on foot along one of the branch roads; she assented, and directing the man to wait a few minutes they strolled away.
他们重新进入车内，沿着道路朝韦瑟伯里和鹿脚巷驶去，直到到达巷旅馆，克莱尔在那里打发了苍蝇和人。他们在这里休息了一会儿，进入山谷后，一个不认识他们关系的陌生人开车送他们前往她的家。到了中途，经过纳特尔伯里，有十字路口的时候，克莱尔停下了交通工具，对苔丝说，如果她想回到她母亲的家，他就会把她留在这儿。由于他们不能在司机面前自由交谈，他让她陪他沿着一条支路步行几步；她同意了，并指示该男子等几分钟，然后他们就漫步离开了。

‘Now, let us understand each other,’ he said gently. ‘There is no anger between us, though there is that which I cannot endure at present. I will try to bring myself to endure it. I will let you know where I go to as soon as I know myself. And if I can bring myself to bear it—if it is desirable, possible—I will come to you. But until I come to you it will be better that you should not try to come to me.’
“现在，让我们互相理解吧，”他温柔地说。 ‘我们之间并没有愤怒，尽管有些事情是我目前无法忍受的。我会努力让自己忍受它。一旦我了解了自己，我就会告诉你我去了哪里。如果我能忍受——如果这是可取的、可能的——我就会来找你。但在我来找你之前，你最好不要试图来找我。”

The severity of the decree seemed deadly to Tess; she saw his view of her clearly enough; he could regard her in no other light than that of one who had practised gross deceit upon him. Yet could a woman who had done even what she had done deserve all this? But she could contest the point with him no further. She simply repeated after him his own words.
这个法令的严厉对苔丝来说似乎是致命的。她清楚地看到他对她的看法。他只能用一种对他进行过严重欺骗的人来看待她。然而，一个已经做了她所做的事情的女人能承受这一切吗？但她不能再与他争论这一点了。她只是跟着他重复了他自己的话。

‘Until you come to me I must not try to come to you?’
“在你来找我之前，我不能试图来找你吗？”

‘Just so.’
“就是这样。”

‘May I write to you?’
“我可以写信给你吗？”

‘O yes—if you are ill, or want anything at all. I hope that will not be the case; so that it may happen that I write first to you.’
“哦，是的——如果你生病了，或者想要什么。我希望情况不会如此；所以我可能会先写信给你。

‘I agree to the conditions, Angel; because you know best what my punishment ought to be; only—only—don’t make it more than I can bear!’
“我同意这个条件，天使；因为你最清楚我应该受到的惩罚；只是——只是——别让事情超出我的承受范围！”

That was all she said on the matter. If Tess had been artful, had she made a scene, fainted, wept hysterically, in that lonely lane, notwithstanding the fury of fastidiousness with which he was possessed, he would probably not have withstood her. But her mood of long-suffering made his way easy for him, and she herself was his best advocate. Pride, too, entered into her submission—which perhaps was a symptom of that reckless acquiescence in chance too apparent in the whole d’Urberville family—and the many effective chords which she could have stirred by an appeal were left untouched.
这就是她对此事的全部说法。如果苔丝够狡猾，如果她在那条偏僻的小巷里大吵大闹，昏倒了，歇斯底里地哭泣，那么尽管他有多么挑剔，他可能也抵挡不住她。但她坚忍的心情让他的道路变得轻松，而她本人就是他最好的支持者。她的屈服也充满了骄傲——这也许是整个德伯维尔家族中显而易见的鲁莽默许的表现——而她本可以通过上诉激起的许多有效的和弦却没有受到影响。

The remainder of their discourse was on practical matters only. He now handed her a packet containing a fairly good sum of money, which he had obtained from his bankers for the purpose. The brilliants, the interest in which seemed to be Tess’s for her life only (if he understood the wording of the will), he advised her to let him send to a bank for safety; and to this she readily agreed.
他们的其余谈话仅涉及实际问题。现在他递给她一个包裹，里面装着一笔相当可观的钱，这是他从银行家那里得到的。才华横溢，苔丝似乎只对她的一生感兴趣（如果他明白遗嘱的措辞的话），他建议她让他把钱送到银行以确保安全；但他却建议她让他把钱送到银行。她欣然同意了。

These things arranged, he walked with Tess back to the carriage, and handed her in. The coachman was paid and told where to drive her. Taking next his own bag and umbrella—the sole articles he had brought with him hitherwards—he bade her goodbye; and they parted there and then.
把这些事情安排好后，他带着苔丝走回马车，把她交给了马车夫。接下来，他拿着自己的包和雨伞——这是他迄今为止随身携带的唯一物品——向她告别。他们当场就分手了。

The fly moved creepingly up a hill, and Clare watched it go with an unpremeditated hope that Tess would look out of the window for one moment. But that she never thought of doing, would not have ventured to do, lying in a half-dead faint inside. Thus he beheld her recede, and in the anguish of his heart quoted a line from a poet, with peculiar emendations of his own—
苍蝇爬上一座小山，克莱尔看着它飞走，无意中希望苔丝能朝窗外看一会儿。但她从来没想过要做，也不敢去做，半死不活地躺在里面。他就这样看着她远去，在内心的痛苦中引用了一位诗人的诗句，并做了自己独特的修改——

God’s NOT in his heaven:
上帝不在他的天堂：

All’s WRONG with the world!
这世界一切都错了！

When Tess had passed over the crest of the hill he turned to go his own way, and hardly knew that he loved her still.
当苔丝越过山顶时，他转身走自己的路，几乎不知道他仍然爱着她。

XXXVIII
三十八

As she drove on through Blackmoor Vale, and the landscape of her youth began to open around her, Tess aroused herself from her stupor. Her first thought was how would she be able to face her parents?
当她开车穿过布莱克莫尔谷时，她年轻时的风景开始在她周围展开，苔丝从昏迷中醒来。她的第一个念头就是，她该如何面对父母？

She reached a turnpike-gate which stood upon the highway to the village. It was thrown open by a stranger, not by the old man who had kept it for many years, and to whom she had been known; he had probably left on New Year’s Day, the date when such changes were made. Having received no intelligence lately from her home, she asked the turnpike-keeper for news.
她到达了通往村庄的高速公路上的一处收费公路大门。它是由一个陌生人打开的，而不是由保管它多年、认识她的老人打开的。他可能是在元旦那天离开的，也就是做出这些改变的日子。由于最近没有从家里收到任何情报，她向收费公路管理员询问消息。

‘Oh—nothing, miss,’ he answered. ‘Marlott is Marlott still. Folks have died and that. John Durbeyfield, too, hev had a daughter married this week to a gentleman-farmer; not from John’s own house, you know; they was married elsewhere; the gentleman being of that high standing that John’s own folk was not considered well-be-doing enough to have any part in it, the bridegroom seeming not to know how’t have been discovered that John is a old and ancient nobleman himself by blood, with family skillentons in their own vaults to this day, but done out of his property in the time o’ the Romans. However, Sir John, as we call ‘n now, kept up the wedding-day as well as he could, and stood treat to everybody in the parish; and John’s wife sung songs at The Pure Drop till past eleven o’clock.’
“哦——没什么，小姐，”他回答道。 “马洛特仍然是马洛特。人们已经死了等等。约翰·德北菲尔德（John Durbeyfield）也有一个女儿，本周嫁给了一位绅士农民。你知道，不是来自约翰自己的房子；他们在别处结婚了；这位绅士的地位如此之高，以至于约翰自己的同胞被认为没有足够的福气参与其中，新郎似乎不知道如何发现约翰本人是一位古老而古老的贵族血统至今，家族的技能仍保存在自己的金库中，但在罗马时代是用他的财产完成的。然而，约翰爵士（我们现在这样称呼他）尽其所能地维持着婚礼，并款待教区的每个人。约翰的妻子在 The Pure Drop 唱歌直到十一点多。

Hearing this, Tess felt so sick at heart that she could not decide to go home publicly in the fly with her luggage and belongings. She asked the turnpike-keeper if she might deposit her things at his house for a while, and, on his offering no objection, she dismissed her carriage, and went on to the village alone by a back lane.
听到这话，苔丝心里难受极了，她无法决定带着行李和财物公开乘飞机回家。她问收费公路管理员是否可以将她的东西暂时存放在他家，他没有反对，她就下了马车，独自沿着一条后巷进了村子。

At sight of her father’s chimney she asked herself how she could possibly enter the house? Inside that cottage her relations were calmly supposing her far away on a wedding-tour with a comparatively rich man, who was to conduct her to bouncing prosperity; while here she was, friendless, creeping up to the old door quite by herself, with no better place to go to in the world.
当她看到父亲的烟囱时，她问自己怎么可能进入房子？在那间小屋里，她的亲戚们平静地以为她正在远方与一位相对富有的男人进行婚礼旅行，他将带领她走向繁荣；但她的家人却平静地认为她正在远方与一位相对富有的男人进行婚礼旅行，而这位男人将引导她走向繁荣。而她却在这里，没有朋友，独自爬到那扇旧门前，世界上没有更好的地方可去。

She did not reach the house unobserved. Just by the garden-hedge she was met by a girl who knew her—one of the two or three with whom she had been intimate at school. After making a few inquiries as to how Tess came there, her friend, unheeding her tragic look, interrupted with—
她没有在无人发现的情况下到达房子。就在花园树篱旁，她遇到了一个认识她的女孩——她在学校里与她关系亲密的两三个女孩之一。在询问了苔丝是如何来到那里之后，她的朋友没有理会她悲惨的表情，打断了她——

‘But where’s thy gentleman, Tess?’
“但是你的先生在哪儿呢，苔丝？”

Tess hastily explained that he had been called away on business, and, leaving her interlocutor, clambered over the garden-hedge, and thus made her way to the house.
苔丝急忙解释说，他是因公事被叫去的，然后就离开了对话者，爬过花园树篱，朝房子走去。

As she went up the garden-path she heard her mother singing by the back door, coming in sight of which she perceived Mrs Durbeyfield on the doorstep in the act of wringing a sheet. Having performed this without observing Tess, she went indoors, and her daughter followed her.
当她走上花园小路时，她听到母亲在后门唱歌，一看到母亲，她就看到德北菲尔德太太正在门口的台阶上拧床单。在没有观察苔丝的情况下完成了这件事，她走进了室内，她的女儿跟着她。

The washing-tub stood in the same old place on the same old quarter-hogshead, and her mother, having thrown the sheet aside, was about to plunge her arms in anew.
洗衣盆放在同一个旧四分之一大桶上的同一个地方，她的母亲把床单扔到一边，正准备重新把她的手臂伸进去。

‘Why—Tess!—my chil’—I thought you was married!—married really and truly this time—we sent the cider—‘
“为什么——苔丝！——我的孩子”——我以为你结婚了！——这次真的结婚了——我们送了苹果酒——”

‘Yes, mother; so I am.’
“是的，妈妈；我也是。'

‘Going to be?’
'将？'

‘No—I am married.’
“不——我已经结婚了。”

‘Married! Then where’s thy husband?’
'已婚！那么你的丈夫在哪里？

‘Oh, he’s gone away for a time.’
“哦，他已经离开了一段时间了。”

‘Gone away! When was you married, then? The day you said?’
'走了！那你什么时候结婚的？你说的那一天？

‘Yes, Tuesday, mother.’
“是的，星期二，妈妈。”

‘And now ‘tis on’y Saturday, and he gone away?’
“现在是星期六，他就走了吗？”

‘Yes, he’s gone.’
“是的，他走了。”

‘What’s the meaning o’ that? ‘Nation seize such husbands as you seem to get, say I!’
‘那是什么意思？ “我说，国家抓住了你似乎得到的这样的丈夫！”

‘Mother!’ Tess went across to Joan Durbeyfield, laid her face upon the matron’s bosom, and burst into sobs. ‘I don’t know how to tell ‘ee, mother! You said to me, and wrote to me, that I was not to tell him. But I did tell him—I couldn’t help it—and he went away!’
“妈妈！”苔丝走到琼·德北菲尔德身边，把脸埋在女护士的怀里，放声抽泣起来。 “我不知道该怎么告诉‘哎呀，妈妈！你对我说过，并写信给我，我不应该告诉他。但我确实告诉了他——我无法控制——然后他就走了！”

‘O you little fool—you little fool!’ burst out Mrs Durbeyfield, splashing Tess and herself in her agitation. ‘My good God! that ever I should ha’ lived to say it, but I say it again, you little fool!’
“哦，你这个小傻瓜——你这个小傻瓜！”德北菲尔德太太大声说道，激动得把苔丝和她自己都溅到了身上。 ‘天哪！本来我应该活着说出来，但我再说一遍，你这个小傻瓜！

Tess was convulsed with weeping, the tension of so many days having relaxed at last.
苔丝哭得浑身抽搐，多日来的紧张终于放松了。

‘I know it—I know—I know!’ she gasped through her sobs. ‘But, O my mother, I could not help it! He was so good—and I felt the wickedness of trying to blind him as to what had happened! If—if—it were to be done again—I should do the same. I could not—I dared not—so sin—against him!’
“我知道——我知道——我知道！”她抽泣着喘着气。 ‘但是，我的母亲啊，我无能为力！他太好了——而我却觉得试图蒙蔽他，让他不知道发生了什么是邪恶的！如果——如果——再来一次——我也应该这样做。我不能——我不敢——所以犯罪——反对他！

‘But you sinned enough to marry him first!’
“但你罪孽深重，竟然先嫁给了他！”

‘Yes, yes; that’s where my misery do lie! But I thought he could get rid o’ me by law if he were determined not to overlook it. And O, if you knew—if you could only half know how I loved him—how anxious I was to have him—and how wrung I was between caring so much for him and my wish to be fair to him!’
'是的是的;这就是我的痛苦所在！但我想，如果他决心不忽视这一点，他可以通过法律除掉我。哦，如果你知道——如果你只能知道我是多么爱他——我是多么渴望拥有他——以及我在如此关心他和希望公平对待他之间是多么纠结！

Tess was so shaken that she could get no further, and sank, a helpless thing, into a chair.
苔丝浑身颤抖，再也无法前行，无助地瘫倒在椅子上。

‘Well, well; what’s done can’t be undone! I’m sure I don’t know why children o’ my bringing forth should all be bigger simpletons than other people’s—not to know better than to blab such a thing as that, when he couldn’t ha’ found it out till too late!’ Here Mrs Durbeyfield began shedding tears on her own account as a mother to be pitied. ‘What your father will say I don’t know,’ she continued; ‘for he’s been talking about the wedding up at Rolliver’s and The Pure Drop every day since, and about his family getting back to their rightful position through you—poor silly man!—and now you’ve made this mess of it! The Lord-a-Lord!’
'好吧;已经发生的事是无法挽回的！我确信我不知道为什么我生下的孩子都比其他人的孩子更傻——不知道比说出这样的事情更好，当他直到太久才发现它时迟到了！”说到这里，德北菲尔德夫人开始为自己作为一个值得同情的母亲而流泪。 “我不知道你父亲会说什么，”她继续说道。 “因为从那以后他每天都在谈论罗利弗和 The Pure Drop 的婚礼，以及他的家人通过你回到他们应有的地位——可怜的傻男人！——现在你把事情搞得一团糟！”主啊主！’

As if to bring matters to a focus, Tess’s father was heard approaching at that moment. He did not, however, enter immediately, and Mrs Durbeyfield said that she would break the bad news to him herself, Tess keeping out of sight for the present. After her first burst of disappointment Joan began to take the mishap as she had taken Tess’s original trouble, as she would have taken a wet holiday or failure in the potato-crop; as a thing which had come upon them irrespective of desert or folly; a chance external impingement to be borne with; not a lesson.
就在这时，苔丝的父亲走近了，仿佛是为了让事情集中起来。然而，他并没有立即进去，德北菲尔德夫人说她会亲自向他报告这个坏消息，而苔丝暂时躲在视线之外。在第一次爆发失望之后，琼开始接受这次不幸，就像她对待苔丝最初的麻烦一样，就像她会经历一个潮湿的假期或土豆歉收一样。就像一件发生在他们身上的事情，无论是应得的还是愚蠢的；需要承受的偶然外部冲击；不是教训。

Tess retreated upstairs and beheld casually that the beds had been shifted, and new arrangements made. Her old bed had been adapted for two younger children. There was no place here for her now.
苔丝退到楼上，漫不经心地看到床已经换了位置，也做了新的安排。她的旧床已为两个年幼的孩子进行了改造。现在这里已经没有她的容身之地了。

The room below being unceiled she could hear most of what went on there. Presently her father entered, apparently carrying in a live hen. He was a foot-haggler now, having been obliged to sell his second horse, and he travelled with his basket on his arm. The hen had been carried about this morning as it was often carried, to show people that he was in his work, though it had lain, with its legs tied, under the table at Rolliver’s for more than an hour.
下面的房间没有天花板，她可以听到里面发生的大部分事情。不久，她父亲进来了，显然抱着一只活母鸡。他现在是一个讨价还价的人，不得不卖掉他的第二匹马，他胳膊上挎着篮子出行。今天早上，这只母鸡像往常一样被人抬着走，向人们表明他正在工作，尽管它的腿被绑着，在罗利弗家的桌子底下躺了一个多小时。

‘We’ve just had up a story about—‘ Durbeyfield began, and thereupon related in detail to his wife a discussion which had arisen at the inn about the clergy, originated by the fact of his daughter having married into a clerical family. ‘They was formerly styled ‘sir’, like my own ancestry,’ he said, ‘though nowadays their true style, strictly speaking, is ‘clerk’ only.’ As Tess had wished that no great publicity should be given to the event, he had mentioned no particulars. He hoped she would remove that prohibition soon. He proposed that the couple should take Tess’s own name, d’Urberville, as uncorrupted. It was better than her husbands’s. He asked if any letter had come from her that day.
“我们刚刚讲了一个故事——”德北菲尔德开始说道，随后他向妻子详细讲述了在旅馆里发生的一场关于神职人员的讨论，这场讨论的起因是他的女儿嫁入了一个神职人员家庭。 “他们以前被称为‘先生’，就像我自己的祖先一样，”他说，“尽管现在他们真正的风格，严格来说，只是‘职员’。”正如苔丝希望不要对这次活动进行大肆宣传，他没有提及任何细节。他希望她能尽快取消这项禁令。他建议这对夫妇应该使用苔丝自己的名字德伯维尔，因为这样才不会受到腐蚀。这比她丈夫的好。他问那天她有没有来信。

Then Mrs Durbeyfield informed him that no letter had come, but Tess unfortunately had come herself.
然后德北菲尔德夫人告诉他没有信来，但不幸的是苔丝自己来了。

When at length the collapse was explained to him, a sullen mortification, not usual with Durbeyfield, overpowered the influence of the cheering glass. Yet the intrinsic quality of the event moved his touchy sensitiveness less than its conjectured effect upon the minds of others.
当最后向他解释了崩溃的原因时，一种在德北菲尔德不常见的闷闷不乐的屈辱压倒了欢呼玻璃的影响。然而，这件事的内在品质对他敏感的敏感度的影响远小于其对他人思想的预期影响。

‘To think, now, that this was to be the end o’t!’ said Sir John. ‘And I with a family vault under that there church of Kingsbere as big as Squire Jollard’s ale-cellar, and my folk lying there in sixes and sevens, as genuine county bones and marrow as any recorded in history. And now to be sure what they fellers at Rolliver’s and The Pure Drop will say to me! How they’ll squint and glane, and say, ‘This is yer mighty match is it; this is yer getting back to the true level of yer forefathers in King Norman’s time!’ I feel this is too much, Joan; I shall put an end to myself, title and all—I can bear it no longer! ... But she can make him keep her if he’s married her?’
“现在想想，这就是结局了！”约翰爵士说道。 “我的家族墓穴就在金斯贝尔教堂的下面，和乡绅乔拉德的酒窖一样大，我的家人七零八落地躺在那里，就像历史上记载的真正的县骨头和骨髓一样。”现在我要确定他们在 Rolliver’s 和 The Pure Drop 的发现会对我说些什么！他们会眯着眼睛扫视一眼，说：‘这就是你的绝配，是吗？这是你回到诺曼国王时代你祖先的真正水平！”我觉得这太过分了，琼；我将结束我自己、头衔和一切——我再也无法忍受了！ ......但如果他娶了她，她就能让他保留她吗？

‘Why, yes. But she won’t think o’ doing that.’
'为什么是。但她不会想到这样做。

‘D’ye think he really have married her?—or is it like the first—‘
“你认为他真的娶了她吗？——或者就像第一次那样——”

Poor Tess, who had heard as far as this, could not bear to hear more. The perception that her word could be doubted even here, in her own parental house, set her mind against the spot as nothing else could have done. How unexpected were the attacks of destiny! And if her father doubted her a little, would not neighbours and acquaintance doubt her much? O, she could not live long at home!
可怜的苔丝听了这么多，不忍再听下去。即使在这里，在她自己父母的房子里，她的诺言也可能受到怀疑，这让她坚决反对这一点，这是其他任何事情都做不到的。命运的袭击是多么出人意料啊！如果她的父亲对她有一点怀疑，那么邻居和熟人不也会对她产生很大的怀疑吗？噢，她在家里活不了多久了！

A few days, accordingly, were all that she allowed herself here, at the end of which time she received a short note from Clare, informing her that he had gone to the North of England to look at a farm. In her craving for the lustre of her true position as his wife, and to hide from her parents the vast extent of the division between them, she made use of this letter as her reason for again departing, leaving them under the impression that she was setting out to join him. Still further to screen her husband from any imputation of unkindness to her, she took twenty-five of the fifty pounds Clare had given her, and handed the sum over to her mother, as if the wife of a man like Angel Clare could well afford it, saying that it was a slight return for the trouble and humiliation she had brought upon them in years past. With this assertion of her dignity she bade them farewell; and after that there were lively doings in the Durbeyfield household for some time on the strength of Tess’s bounty, her mother saying, and, indeed, believing, that the rupture which had arisen between the young husband and wife had adjusted itself under their strong feeling that they could not live apart from each other.
因此，她只允许自己在这里呆几天，最后她收到了克莱尔的一封短信，通知她他去了英格兰北部看一个农场。她渴望自己作为妻子的真实地位的光彩，并向父母隐瞒他们之间巨大的分歧，她用这封信作为再次离开的理由，让他们觉得她是出发去加入他。为了避免丈夫对她不友善，她拿走了克莱尔给她的五十英镑中的二十五英镑，然后把这笔钱交给了她的母亲，仿佛像安吉尔·克莱尔这样的男人的妻子完全可以负担​​得起。说这是对她多年来给他们带来的麻烦和羞辱的一点小小的回报。她以维护自己尊严的方式向他们告别。此后，在苔丝的慷慨帮助下，德北菲尔德家有一段时间热闹非凡，她的母亲说，而且确实相信，年轻夫妇之间出现的裂痕在他们强烈的感情下已经自行调整。他们不能分开生活。

XXXIX
三十九

It was three weeks after the marriage that Clare found himself descending the hill which led to the well-known parsonage of his father. With his downward course the tower of the church rose into the evening sky in a manner of inquiry as to why he had come; and no living person in the twilighted town seemed to notice him, still less to expect him. He was arriving like a ghost, and the sound of his own footsteps was almost an encumbrance to be got rid of.
结婚三周后，克莱尔发现自己走下山，通往他父亲著名的牧师住宅。随着他的下降，教堂的塔楼升入夜空，仿佛在询问他为何而来。暮色中的小镇里似乎没有一个活着的人注意到他，更不用说期待他了。他如幽灵般到来，而他自己的脚步声几乎成了一种需要摆脱的累赘。

The picture of life had changed for him. Before this time he had known it but speculatively; now he thought he knew it as a practical man; though perhaps he did not, even yet. Nevertheless humanity stood before him no longer in the pensive sweetness of Italian art, but in the staring and ghastly attitudes of a Wiertz Museum, and with the leer of a study by Van Beers.
他的生活面貌发生了变化。在此之前，他已经知道了这一点，但只是推测而已。现在他认为自己作为一个务实的人知道这一点。尽管也许他还没有。然而，人性站在他面前的不再是意大利艺术的沉思甜蜜，而是维尔茨博物馆的凝视和可怕的态度，以及范比尔斯研究的斜视。

His conduct during these first weeks had been desultory beyond description. After mechanically attempting to pursue his agricultural plans as though nothing unusual had happened, in the manner recommended by the great and wise men of all ages, he concluded that very few of those great and wise men had ever gone so far outside themselves as to test the feasibility of their counsel. ‘This is the chief thing: be not perturbed,’ said the Pagan moralist. That was just Clare’s own opinion. But he was perturbed. ‘Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid,’ said the Nazarene. Clare chimed in cordially; but his heart was troubled all the same. How he would have liked to confront those two great thinkers, and earnestly appeal to them as fellow-man to fellow-men, and ask them to tell him their method!
最初几周他的行为杂乱无章，难以形容。在按照历代伟大智者所推荐的方式机械地尝试执行他的农业计划，就好像没有发生什么不寻常的事情一样，他得出的结论是，这些伟大智者中很少有人能够超越自己，去测试他们的建议的可行性。 “这是最重要的：不要惊慌，”这位异教道德家说。这只是克莱尔自己的意见。但他很不安。拿撒勒人说：“你的心不要忧愁，也不要害怕。”克莱尔热情地插话道。但他的心还是很不安。他多么想与这两位伟大的思想家对峙，以同胞对同胞的方式恳切地向他们呼吁，请他们告诉他他们的方法！

His mood transmuted itself into a dogged indifference till at length he fancied he was looking on his own existence with the passive interest of an outsider.
他的心情转变成一种顽固的冷漠，直到最后他觉得自己正在以局外人的被动兴趣看待自己的存在。

He was embittered by the conviction that all this desolation had been brought about by the accident of her being a d’Urberville. When he found that Tess came of that exhausted ancient line, and was not of the new tribes from below, as he had fondly dreamed, why had he not stoically abandoned her in fidelity to his principles? This was what he had got by apostasy, and his punishment was deserved.
他深信所有这一切的荒凉都是由于她是德伯维尔家的意外而造成的，他对此深感痛苦。当他发现苔丝来自古老的血统，而不是像他所梦想的那样来自下层的新部落时，为什么他没有坚忍地抛弃她，忠于自己的原则呢？这就是他背道所得到的报应，他的惩罚也是他应得的。

Then he became weary and anxious, and his anxiety increased. He wondered if he had treated her unfairly. He ate without knowing that he ate, and drank without tasting. As the hours dropped past, as the motive of each act in the long series of bygone days presented itself to his view, he perceived how intimately the notion of having Tess as a dear possession was mixed up with all his schemes and words and ways.
然后他变得疲倦和焦虑，而且焦虑感与日俱增。他想知道自己是否对她不公平。吃而不自知，喝而不尝。随着时间的流逝，过去的一长串日子中每一个行为的动机都呈现在他的视野中，他意识到将苔丝视为珍贵财产的想法是多么密切地与他所有的计划、言语和方式混合在一起。

In going hither and thither he observed in the outskirts of a small town a red-and-blue placard setting forth the great advantages of the Empire of Brazil as a field for the emigrating agriculturist. Land was offered there on exceptionally advantageous terms. Brazil somewhat attracted him as a new idea. Tess could eventually join him there, and perhaps in that country of contrasting scenes and notions and habits the conventions would not be so operative which made life with her seem impracticable to him here. In brief he was strongly inclined to try Brazil, especially as the season for going thither was just at hand.
在东奔西走的过程中，他在一个小镇的郊区看到了一块红蓝相间的标语牌，上面写着巴西帝国作为移民农民的一块土地的巨大优势。那里的土地以极其优惠的条件提供。巴西作为一个新想法多少吸引了他。苔丝最终可以和他一起去那里，也许在那个充满对比的场景、观念和习惯的国家，习俗不会那么有效，这使得与她一起生活对他来说似乎是不切实际的。简而言之，他非常倾向于尝试巴西，尤其是去巴西的季节即将到来。

With this view he was returning to Emminster to disclose his plan to his parents, and to make the best explanation he could make of arriving without Tess, short of revealing what had actually separated them. As he reached the door the new moon shone upon his face, just as the old one had done in the small hours of that morning when he had carried his wife in his arms across the river to the graveyard of the monks; but his face was thinner now.
带着这样的想法，他回到埃明斯特，向父母透露他的计划，并对苔丝没有来的情况做出最好的解释，但没有透露到底是什么让他们分开了。当他走到门口时，新月照在他的脸上，就像那天凌晨时分，他抱着妻子过河去修道士墓地时的旧月一样；但他的脸现在瘦了。

Clare had given his parents no warning of his visit, and his arrival stirred the atmosphere of the Vicarage as the dive of the kingfisher stirs a quiet pool. His father and mother were both in the drawing-room, but neither of his brothers was now at home. Angel entered, and closed the door quietly behind him.
克莱尔没有向父母发出他来访的警告，他的到来搅动了牧师住宅的气氛，就像翠鸟的潜水搅动了安静的池塘一样。他的父母都在客厅里，但他的兄弟现在都不在家。安吉尔走了进来，轻轻地关上了身后的门。

‘But—where’s your wife, dear Angel?’ cried his mother. ‘How you surprise us!’
“但是——亲爱的安吉尔，你的妻子在哪里？”他的母亲喊道。 “你真让我们惊讶！”

‘She is at her mother’s—temporarily. I have come home rather in a hurry because I’ve decided to go to Brazil.’
“她在她母亲那里——暂时的。”我回家得相当匆忙，因为我决定去巴西。”

‘Brazil! Why they are all Roman Catholics there surely!’
'巴西！为什么他们肯定都是罗马天主教徒！

‘Are they? I hadn’t thought of that.’
‘是吗？我没想到这一点。

But even the novelty and painfulness of his going to a Papistical land could not displace for long Mr and Mrs Clare’s natural interest in their son’s marriage.
但即便是他前往天主教土地的新鲜感和痛苦也无法长期取代克莱尔先生和夫人对儿子婚姻的天然兴趣。

‘We had your brief note three weeks ago announcing that it had taken place,’ said Mrs Clare, ‘and your father sent your godmother’s gift to her, as you know. Of course it was best that none of us should be present, especially as you preferred to marry her from the dairy, and not at her home, wherever that may be. It would have embarrassed you, and given us no pleasure. Your bothers felt that very strongly. Now it is done we do not complain, particularly if she suits you for the business you have chosen to follow instead of the ministry of the Gospel. ... Yet I wish I could have seen her first, Angel, or have known a little more about her. We sent her no present of our own, not knowing what would best give her pleasure, but you must suppose it only delayed. Angel, there is no irritation in my mind or your father’s against you for this marriage; but we have thought it much better to reserve our liking for your wife till we could see her. And now you have not brought her. It seems strange. What has happened?’
“三周前我们收到了你的简短说明，宣布这件事已经发生了，”克莱尔夫人说，“正如你所知，你的父亲把你教母的礼物送给了她。当然，我们最好谁都不在场，尤其是因为你更愿意在奶牛场娶她，而不是在她家里，无论她家在哪里。这会让你感到尴尬，也不会给我们带来任何乐趣。你的烦恼非常强烈地感受到了这一点。现在事情已经完成了，我们不会抱怨，特别是如果她适合你选择从事的事业而不是福音事工。 ……然而我希望我能先见到她，安吉尔，或者对她多了解一点。我们没有送她自己的礼物，因为不知道什么最能让她高兴，但你一定认为这只是推迟了。安吉尔，我和你父亲都没有因为这桩婚姻而反对你；但我们认为最好保留对你妻子的喜爱，直到我们能见到她。而现在你还没有带她来。看起来很奇怪。发生了什么事？'

He replied that it had been thought best by them that she should to go her parents’ home for the present, whilst he came there.
他回答说，他们认为最好让她暂时去父母家，而他则去那里。

‘I don’t mind telling you, dear mother,’ he said, ‘that I always meant to keep her away from this house till I should feel she could some with credit to you. But this idea of Brazil is quite a recent one. If I do go it will be unadvisable for me to take her on this my first journey. She will remain at her mother’s till I come back.’
“我不介意告诉你，亲爱的母亲，”他说，“我一直想让她远离这所房子，直到我觉得她可以为你做些功劳。”但巴西的这一想法是最近才出现的。如果我真的去的话，我不建议带她去第一次旅行。她将留在她母亲家直到我回来。

‘And I shall not see her before you start?’
“在你开始之前我不会见到她吗？”

He was afraid they would not. His original plan had been, as he had said, to refrain from bringing her there for some little while—not to wound their prejudices—feelings—in any way; and for other reasons he had adhered to it. He would have to visit home in the course of a year, if he went out at once; and it would be possible for them to see her before he started a second time—with her.
他担心他们不会。正如他所说，他最初的计划是暂时不带她去那儿——不要以任何方式伤害他们的偏见——感情；但他的计划是，不要带她去那儿。由于其他原因，他坚持了这一点。如果他立刻出去，一年之内就必须回家一次。在他第二次和她一起出发之前，他们就有可能见到她。

A hastily prepared supper was brought in, and Clare made further exposition of his plans. His mother’s disappointment at not seeing the bride still remained with her. Clare’s late enthusiasm for Tess had infected her through her maternal sympathies, till she had almost fancied that a good thing could come out of Nazareth—a charming woman out of Talbothays Dairy. She watched her son as he ate.
匆忙准备的晚餐送了进来，克莱尔进一步阐述了他的计划。他的母亲仍然对没有见到新娘感到失望。克莱尔迟来对苔丝的热情通过她的母性同情心感染了她，直到她几乎幻想拿撒勒会出一件好事——一个来自塔尔博塞斯乳品厂的迷人女人。她看着儿子吃饭。

‘Cannot you describe her? I am sure she is very pretty, Angel.’
‘你不能描述一下她吗？我确信她非常漂亮，安吉尔。”

‘Of that there can be no question!’ he said, with a zest which covered its bitterness.
“这是毫无疑问的！”他说道，语气中充满了热情，掩盖了其中的苦涩。

‘And that she is pure and virtuous goes without question?’
“而且她是纯洁而善良的，这是毫无疑问的吗？”

‘Pure and virtuous, of course, she is.’
“她当然是纯洁、善良的。”

‘I can see her quite distinctly. You said the other day that she was fine in figure; roundly built; had deep red lips like Cupid’s bow; dark eyelashes and brows, an immense rope of hair like a ship’s cable; and large eyes violety-bluey-blackish.’
“我可以清楚地看到她。那天你说她身材很好；圆形建造；有着丘比特之弓般深红的嘴唇；深色的睫毛和眉毛，一根像船缆一样巨大的头发绳；还有紫蓝色、黑色的大眼睛。”

‘I did, mother.’
“我做到了，妈妈。”

‘I quite see her. And living in such seclusion she naturally had scarce ever seen any young man from the world without till she saw you.’
“我很清楚她。在这样与世隔绝的生活中，她自然很少见过外地的年轻人，直到她见到了你。

‘Scarcely.’
“几乎没有。”

‘You were her first love?’
“你是她的初恋情人？”

‘Of course.’
'当然。'

‘There are worse wives than these simple, rosy-mouthed, robust girls of the farm. Certainly I could have wished—well, since my son is to be an agriculturist, it is perhaps but proper that his wife should have been accustomed to an outdoor life.’
“还有比这些朴素、嘴唇红润、身体健壮的农场女孩更糟糕的妻子了。”当然，我本可以希望——好吧，既然我的儿子要成为一名农学家，那么他的妻子应该习惯户外生活，这也许是正确的。

His father was less inquisitive; but when the time came for the chapter from the Bible which was always read before evening prayers, the Vicar observed to Mrs Clare—
他的父亲没那么好奇。但是，当晚间祈祷前必读的《圣经》章节到了，牧师对克莱尔夫人说——

‘I think, since Angel has come, that it will be more appropriate to read the thirty-first of Proverbs than the chapter which we should have had in the usual course of our reading?’
“我想，既然安吉尔已经来了，那么读《箴言》第三十一章会比我们平时阅读的那一章更合适？”

‘Yes, certainly,’ said Mrs Clare. ‘The words of King Lemuel’ (she could cite chapter and verse as well as her husband). ‘My dear son, your father has decided to read us the chapter in Proverbs in praise of a virtuous wife. We shall not need to be reminded to apply the words to the absent one. May Heaven shield her in all her ways!’
“是的，当然，”克莱尔夫人说。 “雷米尔国王的话”（她可以像她丈夫一样引用章节和诗句）。 “我亲爱的儿子，你的父亲决定给我们读《箴言》中赞美贤惠妻子的一章。我们不需要被提醒将这句话应用到缺席的人身上。愿上天以一切方式保护她！

A lump rose in Clare’s throat. The portable lectern was taken out from the corner and set in the middle of the fireplace, the two old servants came in, and Angel’s father began to read at the tenth verse of the aforesaid chapter—
克莱尔的喉咙里哽住了。便携式讲台从角落里拿出来，放在壁炉中央，两个老仆人走了进来，安格尔的父亲开始念起上述章节的第十节——

“Who can find a virtuous woman? for her price is far above rubies. She riseth while it is yet night, and giveth meat to her household. She girdeth her loins with strength and strengtheneth her arms. She perceiveth that her merchandise is good; her candle goeth not out by night. She looketh well to the ways of her household, and eateth not the bread of idleness. Her children arise up and call her blessed; her husband also, and he praiseth her. Many daughters have done virtuously, but thou excellest them all.’
“贤惠的女子谁能得着呢？因为她的价格远高于红宝石。天还黑的时候，她就起床，给家人送肉。她用力量束腰，使双臂强壮。她认为她的商品很好；她的蜡烛夜里不会熄灭。她很注意家庭的行为，不吃闲事。她的孩子们站起来称她有福；她的丈夫也称赞她。许多女儿都表现得很贤惠，但你比她们都优秀。

When prayers were over, his mother said—
祈祷结束后，他的母亲说——

‘I could not help thinking how very aptly that chapter your dear father read applied, in some of its particulars, to the woman you have chosen. The perfect woman, you see, was a working woman; not an idler; not a fine lady; but one who used her hands and her head and her heart for the good of others. ‘Her children arise up and call her blessed; her husband also, and he praiseth her. Many daughters have done virtuously, but she excelleth them all.’ Well, I wish I could have seen her, Angel. Since she is pure and chaste, she would have been refined enough for me.’
“我不禁想到，你亲爱的父亲读到的那一章的某些细节非常恰当地适用于你所选择的女人。你看，完美的女人是职业女性；不是闲人；不是一个好女士；而是一个用她的双手、她的头脑和她的心为他人谋福利的人。 ‘她的孩子们站起来称她有福；她的丈夫也称赞她。许多女儿都表现得很贤惠，但她比她们都优秀。’好吧，我希望我能看到她，安吉尔。既然她纯洁贞洁，对我来说就足够精致了。

Clare could bear this no longer. His eyes were full of tears, which seemed like drops of molten lead. He bade a quick good night to these sincere and simple souls whom he loved so well; who knew neither the world, the flesh, nor the devil in their own hearts, only as something vague and external to themselves. He went to his own chamber.
克莱尔再也忍受不了了。他的眼睛里充满了泪水，就像熔化的铅滴。他向这些他深爱的真诚而单纯的灵魂道了晚安。他们既不了解世界，不了解肉体，也不了解自己内心的魔鬼，只将其视为某种模糊的、外在的东西。他去了自己的房间。

His mother followed him, and tapped at his door. Clare opened it to discover her standing without, with anxious eyes.
他的母亲跟着他，敲响了他的门。克莱尔打开门，发现她站在门外，眼神焦灼。

‘Angel,’ she asked, ‘is there something wrong that you go away so soon? I am quite sure you are not yourself.’
“安琪儿，”她问道，“你这么快就走是有什么事吗？”我很确定你不是你自己。

‘I am not, quite, mother,’ said he.
“我完全不是母亲，”他说。

‘About her? Now, my son, I know it is that—I know it is about her! Have you quarrelled in these three weeks?’
'关于她？现在，我的儿子，我知道是这样的——我知道是关于她的！这三个星期你们吵架了吗？

‘We have not exactly quarrelled,’ he said. ‘But we have had a difference—‘
“我们并没有真正吵架，”他说。 “但我们有不同之处——”

‘Angel—is she a young woman whose history will bear investigation?’
“安琪尔——她是一个历史值得调查的年轻女子吗？”

With a mother’s instinct Mrs Clare had put her finger on the kind of trouble that would cause such a disquiet as seemed to agitate her son.
克莱尔夫人凭着母亲的本能，把矛头指向了那种会引起她儿子不安的麻烦。

‘She is spotless!’ he replied; and felt that if it had sent him to eternal hell there and then he would have told that lie.
“她一尘不染！”他回答道。并觉得如果这把他送进了永恒的地狱，那么他就会撒谎。

‘Then never mind the rest. After all, there are few purer things in nature then an unsullied country maid. Any crudeness of manner which may offend your more educated sense at first, will, I am sure, disappear under the influence or your companionship and tuition.’
‘那就别管其他的了。毕竟，自然界中没有什么比纯洁的乡下姑娘更纯洁的了。我相信，任何一开始可能冒犯你受过良好教育的感觉的粗鲁行为，都会在你的陪伴和教导的影响下消失。

Such terrible sarcasm of blind magnanimity brought home to Clare the secondary perception that he had utterly wrecked his career by this marriage, which had not been among his early thoughts after the disclosure. True, on his own account he cared very little about his career; but he had wished to make it at least a respectable one on account of his parents and brothers. And now as he looked into the candle its flame dumbly expressed to him that it was made to shine on sensible people, and that it abhorred lighting the face of a dupe and a failure.
这种盲目宽宏的可怕讽刺让克莱尔意识到，这场婚姻彻底毁了他的职业生涯，而在事情曝光后，他并没有想到这一点。确实，出于他自己的考虑，他很少关心自己的职业生涯。但为了他的父母和兄弟，他希望至少能成为一个受人尊敬的人。现在，当他看着蜡烛时，它的火焰无声地向他表明，它是为了照亮明智的人而生的，它讨厌照亮一个受骗者和失败者的脸。

When his agitation had cooled he would be at moments incensed with his poor wife for causing a situation in which he was obliged to practise deception on his parents. He almost talked to her in his anger, as if she had been in the room. And then her cooing voice, plaintive in expostulation, disturbed the darkness, the velvet touch of her lips passed over his brow, and he could distinguish in the air the warmth of her breath.
当他的激动情绪平静下来时，他有时会对他可怜的妻子感到愤怒，因为她造成了他不得不欺骗父母的情况。他几乎在愤怒中对她说话，就好像她就在房间里一样。然后她咕咕的声音，哀怨的劝告，扰乱了黑暗，她的嘴唇天鹅绒般的触感掠过他​​的额头，他可以在空气中辨别出她温暖的呼吸。

This night the woman of his belittling deprecations was thinking how great and good her husband was. But over them both there hung a deeper shade than the shade which Angel Clare perceived, namely, the shade of his own limitations. With all his attempted independence of judgement this advanced and well-meaning young man, a sample product of the last five-and-twenty years, was yet the slave to custom and conventionality when surprised back into his early teachings. No prophet had told him, and he was not prophet enough to tell himself, that essentially this young wife of his was as deserving of the praise of King Lemuel as any other woman endowed with the same dislike of evil, her moral value having to be reckoned not by achievement but by tendency. Moreover, the figure near at hand suffers on such occasion, because it shows up its sorriness without shade; while vague figures afar off are honoured, in that their distance makes artistic virtues of their stains. In considering what Tess was not, he overlooked what she was, and forgot that the defective can be more than the entire.
今晚，被他贬低的女人在想她的丈夫是多么的伟大和善良。但在他们两人的上方，笼罩着比安吉尔·克莱尔所感知到的阴影更深的阴影，即他自身局限性的阴影。这位先进而善意的年轻人虽然试图独立判断，但他是过去五年和二十年的典型产物，当他惊讶地回到他早期的教义时，他仍然是习俗和传统的奴隶。没有先知告诉过他，而且他也不够先知告诉自己，从本质上讲，他的这位年轻妻子与任何其他同样厌恶邪恶的女人一样值得雷米尔国王的赞扬，她的道德价值必须受到雷米尔国王的赞扬。不是根据成就而是根据趋势来衡量。此外，近处的人物在这种情况下也很痛苦，因为它毫无遮掩地表现出悲伤。远处模糊的人物受到尊敬，因为他们的距离使他们的污点具有艺术美感。在考虑苔丝不是什么的时候，他忽略了她是什么，忘记了缺陷可能比整体更重要。

XL

At breakfast Brazil was the topic, and all endeavoured to take a hopeful view of Clare’s proposed experiment with that country’s soil, notwithstanding the discouraging reports of some farm-labourers who had emigrated thither and returned home within the twelve months. After breakfast Clare went into the little town to wind up such trifling matters as he was concerned with there, and to get from the local bank all the money he possessed. On his way back he encountered Miss Mercy Chant by the church, from whose walls she seemed to be a sort of emanation. She was carrying an armful of Bibles for her class, and such was her view of life that events which produced heartache in others wrought beatific smiles upon her—an enviable result, although, in the opinion of Angel, it was obtained by a curiously unnatural sacrifice of humanity to mysticism.
早餐时，巴西是主题，尽管有一些移居巴西并在十二个月内返回家乡的农场工人的报道令人沮丧，但所有人都努力对克莱尔提议的该国土壤实验抱有希望。早餐后，克莱尔到小镇去处理他所关心的琐事，并从当地银行取出他拥有的所有钱。在回来的路上，他在教堂附近遇到了梅西·尚特小姐，她似乎是从教堂的墙壁上散发出来的。她在课堂上抱着一抱《圣经》，这就是她的人生观，那些让别人心痛的事件却给她带来了幸福的微笑——这是一个令人羡慕的结果，尽管在安吉尔看来，这是通过一种奇怪的不自然的方式获得的。人类对神秘主义的牺牲。

She had learnt that he was about to leave England, and observed what an excellent and promising scheme it seemed to be.
她得知他即将离开英国，并观察到这似乎是一个多么出色和有前途的计划。

‘Yes; it is a likely scheme enough in a commercial sense, no doubt,’ he replied. ‘But, my dear Mercy, it snaps the continuity of existence. Perhaps a cloister would be preferable.’
'是的;毫无疑问，从商业意义上来说，这是一个足够可行的计划，”他回答道。 “但是，亲爱的梅西，它破坏了存在的连续性。也许回廊会更好。

‘A cloister! O, Angel Clare!’
‘一个回廊！哦，天使克莱尔！

‘Well?’
'出色地？'

‘Why, you wicked man, a cloister implies a monk, and a monk Roman Catholicism.’
“哎呀，你这恶人，修道院就意味着修道士，而且是罗马天主教修道士。”

‘And Roman Catholicism sin, and sin damnation. Thou art in a parlous state, Angel Clare.’
‘还有罗马天主教的罪恶，以及罪恶的诅咒。你现在处境危险，安吉尔·克莱尔。

‘I glory in my Protestantism!’ she said severely.
“我以我的新教信仰为荣！”她严肃地说。

Then Clare, thrown by sheer misery into one of the demoniacal moods in which a man does despite to his true principles, called her close to him, and fiendishly whispered in her ear the most heterodox ideas he could think of. His momentary laughter at the horror which appeared on her fair face ceased when it merged in pain and anxiety for his welfare.
然后，克莱尔因纯粹的痛苦而陷入一种恶魔般的情绪，这是一个男人不顾自己真正原则的行为，他把她叫到靠近他，并在她耳边邪恶地低语着他能想到的最异端的想法。他因她美丽的脸上出现的恐惧而短暂地大笑，但当笑声融入痛苦和对他的幸福的焦虑时，他的笑声就停止了。

‘Dear Mercy,’ he said, ‘you must forgive me. I think I am going crazy!’
“亲爱的梅西，”他说，“你必须原谅我。”我想我快疯了！

She thought that he was; and thus the interview ended, and Clare re-entered the Vicarage. With the local banker he deposited the jewels till happier days should arise. He also paid into the bank thirty pounds—to be sent to Tess in a few months, as she might require; and wrote to her at her parents’ home in Blackmoor Vale to inform her of what he had done. This amount, with the sum he had already placed in her hands—about fifty pounds—he hoped would be amply sufficient for her wants just at present, particularly as in an emergency she had been directed to apply to his father.
她认为他是；采访就这样结束了，克莱尔重新进入了牧师住宅。他把珠宝存放在当地的银行家那里，直到幸福的日子到来。他还向银行存了三十英镑——几个月后寄给苔丝，因为她可能需要；并写信给她位于布莱克摩尔谷的父母家，告诉她他所做的事情。这笔钱，加上他已经放在她手里的钱——大约五十英镑——他希望足以满足她目前的需要，特别是在紧急情况下，她被指示向他的父亲申请。

He deemed it best not to put his parents into communication with her by informing them of her address; and, being unaware of what had really happened to estrange the two, neither his father nor his mother suggested that he should do so. During the day he left the parsonage, for what he had to complete he wished to get done quickly.
他认为最好不要告诉父母她的地址，以免他们与她联系。由于不知道到底发生了什么导致两人关系疏远，他的父亲和母亲都没有建议他这样做。白天他离开了牧师住宅，因为他必须完成的事情他希望尽快完成。

As the last duty before leaving this part of England it was necessary for him to call at the Wellbridge farmhouse, in which he had spent with Tess the first three days of their marriage, the trifle of rent having to be paid, the key given up of the rooms they had occupied, and two or three small articles fetched away that they had left behind. It was under this roof that the deepest shadow ever thrown upon his life had stretched its gloom over him. Yet when he had unlocked the door of the sitting-room and looked into it, the memory which returned first upon him was that of their happy arrival on a similar afternoon, the first fresh sense of sharing a habitation conjointly, the first meal together, the chatting by the fire with joined hands.
作为离开英格兰这一地区之前的最后一项任务，他必须去韦尔布里奇农舍一趟，他和苔丝在那里度过了他们结婚的头三天，必须支付一点房租，钥匙也被放弃了。他们占据的房间里，还有两三件他们留下的小物品被拿走了。正是在这个屋檐下，他的人生蒙上了最深的阴影，笼罩在他的身上。然而，当他打开客厅的门并向里面看去时，首先浮现在他脑海中的记忆是他们在相似的下午愉快地抵达，第一次共同居住的新鲜感觉，第一次一起吃饭，手拉手在火边聊天。

The farmer and his wife were in the field at the moment of his visit, and Clare was in the rooms alone for some time. Inwardly swollen with a renewal of sentiment that he had not quite reckoned with, he went upstairs to her chamber, which had never been his. The bed was smooth as she had made it with her own hands on the morning of leaving. The mistletoe hung under the tester just as he had placed it. Having been there three or four weeks it was turning colour, and the leaves and berries were wrinkled. Angel took it down and crushed it into the grate. Standing there, he for the first time doubted whether his course in this conjecture had been a wise, much less a generous, one. But had he not been cruelly blinded? In the incoherent multitude of his emotions he knelt down at the bedside wet-eyed. ‘O Tess! If you had only told me sooner, I would have forgiven you!’ he mourned.
他来访时，农夫和他的妻子正在田里，克莱尔独自在房间里呆了一段时间。他的内心因一种他未曾预料到的新的感情而膨胀，他上楼来到她的房间，那间从来不属于他的房间。床很光滑，因为是她离开的那天早上亲手铺的。槲寄生就挂在测试仪下面，就像他放置的那样。在那里待了三四个星期后，它开始变色，叶子和浆果都起皱了。安吉尔把它取下来，把它压进炉栅里。站在那里，他第一次怀疑自己的这一猜想是否明智，更不用说慷慨了。但他不是被残忍地蒙蔽了双眼吗？在他语无伦次的情绪中，他跪在床边，眼睛湿漉漉的。 ‘噢，苔丝！如果你早点告诉我，我就会原谅你了！”他哀悼道。

Hearing a footstep below, he rose and went to the top of the stairs. At the bottom of the flight he saw a woman standing, and on her turning up her face recognized the pale, dark-eyed Izz Huett.
听到下面有脚步声，他起身往楼梯顶上走去。在飞机的底部，他看到一个女人站着，在她转过头的时候，她认出了苍白、黑眼睛的伊兹·休特。

‘Mr Clare,’ she said, ‘I’ve called to see you and Mrs Clare, and to inquire if ye be well. I thought you might be back here again.’
“克莱尔先生，”她说，“我打电话来看望您和克莱尔夫人，询问你们是否还好。”我以为你可能会再次回到这里。

This was a girl whose secret he had guessed, but who had not yet guessed his; an honest girl who loved him—one who would have made as good, or nearly as good, a practical farmer’s wife as Tess.
这是一个他猜到了她的秘密，但他还没有猜到的女孩；一个诚实的女孩，爱他——一个可以成为像苔丝一样优秀或几乎一样优秀的务实农夫的妻子。

‘I am here alone,’ he said; ‘we are not living here now.’ Explaining why he had come, he asked, ‘Which way are you going home, Izz?’
“我一个人在这里，”他说。 “我们现在不住在这里。”在解释自己来这里的原因时，他问道，“伊兹，你要走哪条路回家？”

‘I have no home at Talbothays Dairy now, sir,’ she said.
“我现在在塔尔博塞斯乳品厂已经没有家了，先生，”她说。

‘Why is that?’
'这是为什么？'

Izz looked down.
伊兹低下头。

‘It was so dismal there that I left! I am staying out this way.’ She pointed in a contrary direction, the direction in which he was journeying.
‘那里太阴暗了，我就离开了！我就这样待在外面。”她指着相反的方向，也就是他行进的方向。

‘Well—are you going there now? I can take you if you wish for a lift.’
‘嗯——你现在要去那里吗？如果你想搭便车，我可以载你。

Her olive complexion grew richer in hue.
她橄榄色的肤色变得更加浓郁。

‘Thank ‘ee, Mr Clare,’ she said.
“谢谢克莱尔先生，”她说。

He soon found the farmer, and settled the account for his rent and the few other items which had to be considered by reason of the sudden abandonment of the lodgings. On Clare’s return to his horse and gig, Izz jumped up beside him.
他很快就找到了农夫，结清了房租和因突然放弃住处而不得不考虑的其他几项费用。当克莱尔回到他的马和马车上时，伊兹跳到他身边。

‘I am going to leave England, Izz,’ he said, as they drove on. ‘Going to Brazil.’
“我要离开英格兰了，伊兹，”他们开车继续前行时，他说道。 “去巴西。”

‘And do Mrs Clare like the notion of such a journey?’ she asked.
“克莱尔夫人喜欢这样的旅程吗？”她问道。

‘She is not going at present—say for a year or so. I am going out to reconnoitre—to see what life there is like.’
“她目前不会去——比如说一年左右。”我要出去侦察——看看那里的生活是什么样的。

They sped along eastward for some considerable distance, Izz making no observation.
他们向东飞驰了一段相当长的距离，伊兹没有进行任何观察。

‘How are the others?’ he inquired. ‘How is Retty?’
“其他人怎么样？”他问道。 “雷蒂怎么样？”

‘She was in a sort of nervous state when I zid her last; and so thin and hollow-cheeked that ‘a do seem in a decline. Nobody will ever fall in love wi’ her any more,’ said Izz absently.
“当我最后一次给她打针时，她正处于一种紧张的状态。他是如此瘦弱，双颊凹陷，“看起来确实在衰落”。没有人会再爱上她了。”伊兹心不在焉地说。

‘And Marian?’
“玛丽安呢？”

Izz lowered her voice.
伊兹压低了声音。

‘Marian drinks.’
“玛丽安喝酒。”

‘Indeed!’
'的确！'

‘Yes. The dairyman has got rid of her.’
'是的。奶牛场老板已经摆脱了她。

‘And you!’
'你呢！'

‘I don’t drink, and I bain’t in a decline. But—I am no great things at singing afore breakfast now!’
“我不喝酒，而且我也不会衰弱。但是——我现在不擅长在早餐前唱歌了！”

‘How is that? Do you remember how neatly you used to turn ‘’Twas down in Cupid’s Gardens’ and ‘The Tailor’s Breeches’ at morning milking?’
'那个怎么样？你还记得你在早上挤奶时如何巧妙地翻开“丘比特花园里的丘比特”和“裁缝的马裤”吗？

‘Ah, yes! When you first came, sir, that was. Not when you had been there a bit.’
'是啊！先生，您刚来的时候就是这样。当你去过那儿一段时间时就不会了。

‘Why was that falling-off?’
“为什么会掉下来？”

Her black eyes flashed up to his face for one moment by way of answer.
她的黑眼睛在他脸上闪过一会儿，作为回答。

‘Izz!—how weak of you—for such as I!’ he said, and fell into reverie. ‘Then—suppose I had asked YOU to marry me?’
“哎呀！——对于我这样的人来说，你真是太软弱了！”他说道，然后陷入了沉思。 “那么——假设我向你求婚了呢？”

‘If you had I should have said ‘Yes’, and you would have married a woman who loved ‘ee!’
“如果你有的话，我应该说‘是’，你就会嫁给一个爱‘哎呀！’的女人。”

‘Really!’
'真的吗！'

‘Down to the ground!’ she whispered vehemently. ‘O my God! did you never guess it till now!’
“趴到地上！”她激烈地低声说道。 ‘我的上帝啊！你到现在都没猜到吗！

By-and-by they reached a branch road to a village.
不久，他们到达了一条通往村庄的支路。

‘I must get down. I live out there,’ said Izz abruptly, never having spoken since her avowal.
‘我必须下来。我住在那儿，”伊兹突然说道，自从她坦白以来就再也没有说过话。

Clare slowed the horse. He was incensed against his fate, bitterly disposed towards social ordinances; for they had cooped him up in a corner, out of which there was no legitimate pathway. Why not be revenged on society by shaping his future domesticities loosely, instead of kissing the pedagogic rod of convention in this ensnaring manner?
克莱尔放慢了马的速度。他对自己的命运感到愤怒，对社会法令充满怨恨。因为他们把他关在一个角落里，没有合法的出路。为什么不通过宽松地塑造他未来的家庭生活来报复社会，而不是以这种引诱的方式亲吻传统的教育棒呢？

‘I am going to Brazil alone, Izz,’ said he. ‘I have separated from my wife for personal, not voyaging, reasons. I may never live with her again. I may not be able to love you; but—will you go with me instead of her?’
“我要独自去巴西，伊兹，”他说。 “我与妻子分居是出于个人原因，而不是出于航行原因。我可能再也不会和她住在一起了。我也许无法爱你；但是——你愿意和我一起去而不是她吗？

‘You truly wish me to go?’
“你真的希望我走吗？”

‘I do. I have been badly used enough to wish for relief. And you at least love me disinterestedly.’
'我愿意。我已经被严重利用了，希望得到解脱。你至少无私地爱我。

‘Yes—I will go,’ said Izz, after a pause.
“是的——我会去，”伊兹停顿了一下后说道。

‘You will? You know what it means, Izz?’
'你会？你知道这意味着什么吗，伊兹？

‘It means that I shall live with you for the time you are over there—that’s good enough for me.’
“这意味着你在那边期间我会和你住在一起——这对我来说就足够了。”

‘Remember, you are not to trust me in morals now. But I ought to remind you that it will be wrong-doing in the eyes of civilization—Western civilization, that is to say.’
‘记住，你现在不能在道德上相信我。但我应该提醒你，这在文明——也就是说，西方文明——的眼中是错误的行为。

‘I don’t mind that; no woman do when it comes to agony-point, and there’s no other way!’
“我不介意；没有哪个女人会在痛苦的时刻做到这一点，而且没有其他办法！”

‘Then don’t get down, but sit where you are.’
“那就别下来，坐在原处。”

He drove past the cross-roads, one mile, two miles, without showing any signs of affection.
他开车经过十字路口，一英里，两英里，没有表现出任何感情的迹象。

‘You love me very, very much, Izz?’ he suddenly asked.
“你非常非常爱我，伊兹？”他突然问道。

‘I do—I have said I do! I loved you all the time we was at the dairy together!’
‘我愿意——我说过我愿意！我们一起在牛奶场的时候我一直爱你！”

‘More than Tess?’
“比苔丝还多吗？”

She shook her head.
她摇摇头。

‘No,’ she murmured, ‘not more than she.’
“不，”她低声说道，“不比她多。”

‘How’s that?’
'怎么样？'

‘Because nobody could love ‘ee more than Tess did! ... She would have laid down her life for ‘ee. I could do no more.’
“因为没有人比苔丝更爱她了！” ……她愿意为‘ee’献出自己的生命。我无能为力了。

Like the prophet on the top of Peor, Izz Huett would fain have spoken perversely at such a moment, but the fascination exercised over her rougher nature by Tess’s character compelled her to grace.
就像皮奥山顶上的先知一样，伊兹·休特在这样的时刻很想说出反常的话，但苔丝的性格对她粗鲁的本性产生的迷恋迫使她表现出优雅。

Clare was silent; his heart had risen at these straightforward words from such an unexpected unimpeachable quarter. In his throat was something as if a sob had solidified there. His ears repeated, ‘SHE WOULD HAVE LAID DOWN HER LIFE FOR ‘EE. I COULD DO NO MORE!’
克莱尔沉默了。听到这些来自如此出人意料、无懈可击的地方的直截了当的话，他的心振奋起来。他的喉咙里仿佛有一声抽泣凝固在了那里。他的耳朵重复着：“她愿意为了‘EE’而献出自己的生命。”我不能再做更多了！

‘Forget our idle talk, Izz,’ he said, turning the horse’s head suddenly. ‘I don’t know what I’ve been saying! I will now drive you back to where your lane branches off.’
“忘了我们的闲话吧，伊兹，”他突然转过马头说道。 ‘我不知道我在说什么！现在我会开车送你回到车道的分支处。”

‘So much for honesty towards ‘ee! O—how can I bear it—how can I—how can I!’
“对‘ee’的诚实就到此为止了！”噢——我怎么能忍受——我怎么能——我怎么能！

Izz Huett burst into wild tears, and beat her forehead as she saw what she had done.
当伊兹·休特看到自己所做的事情时，她泪流满面，捶着额头。

‘Do you regret that poor little act of justice to an absent one? O, Izz, don’t spoil it by regret!’
‘你对那个缺席者的可怜的正义之举感到遗憾吗？噢，伊兹，别因为后悔而毁了它！”

She stilled herself by degrees.
她逐渐让自己平静下来。

‘Very well, sir. Perhaps I didn’t know what I was saying, either, wh—when I agreed to go! I wish—what cannot be!’
“很好，先生。也许我也不知道自己在说什么，什——当我同意去的时候！我希望——还有什么不可能！

‘Because I have a loving wife already.’
“因为我已经有一个亲爱的妻子了。”

‘Yes, yes! You have!’
'是的是的！你有！'

They reached the corner of the lane which they had passed half an hour earlier, and she hopped down.
他们到达了半小时前经过的小巷拐角处，她跳了下来。

‘Izz—please, please forget my momentary levity!’ he cried. ‘It was so ill-considered, so ill-advised!’
“伊兹——求你了，请忘记我一时的轻浮！”他喊道。 “这真是考虑不周，非常不明智！”

‘Forget it? Never, never! O, it was no levity to me!’
'忘了它？从来没有，从来没有！哦，这对我来说可不是什么小事！

He felt how richly he deserved the reproach that the wounded cry conveyed, and, in a sorrow that was inexpressible, leapt down and took her hand.
他觉得自己罪有应得，这受伤的哭声所传达的责备是他罪有应得，于是他怀着难以言喻的悲伤，跳了下来，握住了她的手。

‘Well, but, Izz, we’ll part friends, anyhow? You don’t know what I’ve had to bear!’
“好吧，但是，伊兹，我们无论如何都会分开朋友吗？”你不知道我必须承受什么！

She was a really generous girl, and allowed no further bitterness to mar their adieux.
她是一个非常慷慨的女孩，不允许更多的痛苦破坏他们的告别。

‘I forgive ‘ee, sir!’ she said.
“我原谅‘呃，先生！’她说。

‘Now, Izz,’ he said, while she stood beside him there, forcing himself to the mentor’s part he was far from feeling; ‘I want you to tell Marian when you see her that she is to be a good woman, and not to give way to folly. Promise that, and tell Retty that there are more worthy men than I in the world, that for my sake she is to act wisely and well—remember the words—wisely and well—for my sake. I send this message to them as a dying man to the dying; for I shall never see them again. And you, Izzy, you have saved me by your honest words about my wife from an incredible impulse towards folly and treachery. Women may be bad, but they are not so bad as men in these things! On that one account I can never forget you. Be always the good and sincere girl you have hitherto been; and think of me as a worthless lover, but a faithful friend. Promise.’
“现在，伊兹，”他说，而她就站在他身边，强迫自己站在导师的立场上，而他却完全没有感觉到；她站在他身边，强迫自己站在导师的一边。 “我希望你在见到玛丽安时告诉她，她要成为一个好女人，不要犯下愚蠢的错误。答应我，并告诉雷蒂，世界上有比我更有价值的男人，为了我，她要明智地、良好地行事——记住这句话——明智地、良好地——为了我。我向他们发出这条信息，就像一个垂死的人向垂死的人发出的一样；因为我再也见不到他们了。而你，伊兹，你对我妻子的诚实话语拯救了我，让我免于愚蠢和背叛的冲动。女人或许不好，但在这些事情上她们并不比男人差！就这一点而言，我永远无法忘记你。永远做一个善良、真诚的女孩；并认为我是一个毫无价值的情人，但却是一个忠实的朋友。承诺。'

She gave the promise.
她做出了承诺。

‘Heaven bless and keep you, sir. Goodbye!’
“愿上天保佑你，先生。”再见！'

He drove on; but no sooner had Izz turned into the lane, and Clare was out of sight, than she flung herself down on the bank in a fit of racking anguish; and it was with a strained unnatural face that she entered her mother’s cottage late that night. Nobody ever was told how Izz spent the dark hours that intervened between Angel Clare’s parting from her and her arrival home.
他继续前行。但伊兹一拐进小巷，克莱尔就看不见了，她痛苦地扑倒在岸上。那天深夜，她带着一脸紧张、不自然的表情走进了母亲的小屋。没有人知道伊兹是如何度过从安吉尔·克莱尔与她分离到回家之间的黑暗时光的。

Clare, too, after bidding the girl farewell, was wrought to aching thoughts and quivering lips. But his sorrow was not for Izz. That evening he was within a feather-weight’s turn of abandoning his road to the nearest station, and driving across that elevated dorsal line of South Wessex which divided him from his Tess’s home. It was neither a contempt for her nature, nor the probable state of her heart, which deterred him.
克莱尔在与女孩告别后，也陷入了痛苦的思绪和颤抖的嘴唇。但他的悲伤并不是为伊兹。那天晚上，他轻而易举地就放弃了前往最近车站的道路，开车穿过南威塞克斯的那条高架背线，这条线将他与苔丝的家分开。阻止他的既不是对她本性的蔑视，也不是她内心可能的状态。

No; it was a sense that, despite her love, as corroborated by Izz’s admission, the facts had not changed. If he was right at first, he was right now. And the momentum of the course on which he had embarked tended to keep him going in it, unless diverted by a stronger, more sustained force than had played upon him this afternoon. He could soon come back to her. He took the train that night for London, and five days after shook hands in farewell of his brothers at the port of embarkation.
不;这是一种感觉，尽管她有爱，正如伊兹的承认所证实的那样，事实并没有改变。如果他一开始是对的，那么他现在也是对的。他所踏上的道路的动力往往会让他继续前进，除非被比今天下午施加在他身上的更强大、更持久的力量所改变。他很快就能回到她身边。当晚，他乘火车前往伦敦，五天后，他在出发港口与兄弟们握手告别。

XLI

From the foregoing events of the winter-time let us press on to an October day, more than eight months subsequent to the parting of Clare and Tess. We discover the latter in changed conditions; instead of a bride with boxes and trunks which others bore, we see her a lonely woman with a basket and a bundle in her own porterage, as at an earlier time when she was no bride; instead of the ample means that were projected by her husband for her comfort through this probationary period, she can produce only a flattened purse.
让我们从上述冬季事件继续看十月的一天，即克莱尔和苔丝分手八个多月后的一天。我们发现后者是在条件发生变化的情况下发生的。我们看到她不再是一个提着别人提着的箱子和行李箱的新娘，而是一个孤独的女人，她自己的行李箱里放着一个篮子和一个包裹，就像她还不是新娘的时候一样。她的丈夫并没有为她在试用期提供充足的安慰，她只能拿出一个扁平的钱包。

After again leaving Marlott, her home, she had got through the spring and summer without any great stress upon her physical powers, the time being mainly spent in rendering light irregular service at dairy-work near Port-Bredy to the west of the Blackmoor Valley, equally remote from her native place and from Talbothays. She preferred this to living on his allowance. Mentally she remained in utter stagnation, a condition which the mechanical occupation rather fostered than checked. Her consciousness was at that other dairy, at that other season, in the presence of the tender lover who had confronted her there—he who, the moment she had grasped him to keep for her own, had disappeared like a shape in a vision.
再次离开家乡马洛特后，她度过了春天和夏天，体力没有受到任何太大的压力，这段时间主要花在布莱迪港附近布莱克摩尔谷以西的乳品厂做一些不定期的服务。 ，距离她的家乡和塔尔博塞斯同样遥远。她宁愿这样也不愿靠他的零花钱生活。在精神上，她仍然处于完全停滞状态，机械职业非但没有抑制这种状态，反而助长了她的这种状态。她的意识在另一个奶牛场，在另一个季节，在那个温柔的情人面前，他在那里与她对峙——当她抓住他并据为己有的那一刻，他就像幻象中的一个形状一样消失了。

The dairy-work lasted only till the milk began to lessen, for she had not met with a second regular engagement as at Talbothays, but had done duty as a supernumerary only. However, as harvest was now beginning, she had simply to remove from the pasture to the stubble to find plenty of further occupation, and this continued till harvest was done.
乳制品工作只持续到牛奶开始减少，因为她没有像在塔尔博塞斯那样定期参加第二次工作，而只是作为编外人员履行职责。然而，由于现在开始收割，她只需从牧场搬到残茬上，寻找更多的工作，这种情况一直持续到收割完成。

Of the five-and-twenty pounds which had remained to her of Clare’s allowance, after deducting the other half of the fifty as a contribution to her parents for the trouble and expense to which she had put them, she had as yet spent but little. But there now followed an unfortunate interval of wet weather, during which she was obliged to fall back upon her sovereigns.
克莱尔的零用钱还剩下五又二十英镑，扣除五十英镑的另一半作为她父母为她给父母带来的麻烦和开支的捐款后，她还只花掉了很少的钱。 。但接下来是一段不幸的潮湿天气，在此期间她不得不回到她的主权上。

She could not bear to let them go. Angel had put them into her hand, had obtained them bright and new from his bank for her; his touch had consecrated them to souvenirs of himself—they appeared to have had as yet no other history than such as was created by his and her own experiences—and to disperse them was like giving away relics. But she had to do it, and one by one they left her hands.
她不忍心让他们走。安吉尔把它们交到了她手里，从他的银行里为她弄到了亮丽的、崭新的。他的触摸使它们成为他自己的纪念品——除了他和她自己的经历所创造的历史之外，它们似乎还没有其他历史——而驱散它们就像赠送文物一样。但她不得不这么做，它们一一离开了她的手。

She had been compelled to send her mother her address from time to time, but she concealed her circumstances. When her money had almost gone a letter from her mother reached her. Joan stated that they were in dreadful difficulty; the autumn rains had gone through the thatch of the house, which required entire renewal; but this could not be done because the previous thatching had never been paid for. New rafters and a new ceiling upstairs also were required, which, with the previous bill, would amount to a sum of twenty pounds. As her husband was a man of means, and had doubtless returned by this time, could she not send them the money?
她被迫时不时地把自己的地址发给母亲，但她隐瞒了自己的情况。当她的钱快花完时，她收到了一封来自母亲的信。琼说他们遇到了可怕的困难。秋雨已经浸透了房子的茅草顶，需要彻底翻新。但这是不可能的，因为之前的茅草屋顶从未支付过费用。楼上还需要新的椽子和新的天花板，加上之前的账单，总共需要二十英镑。她丈夫是个有钱人，这个时候肯定已经回来了，她能不给他们送钱吗？

Tess had thirty pounds coming to her almost immediately from Angel’s bankers, and, the case being so deplorable, as soon as the sum was received she sent the twenty as requested. Part of the remainder she was obliged to expend in winter clothing, leaving only a nominal sum for the whole inclement season at hand. When the last pound had gone, a remark of Angel’s that whenever she required further resources she was to apply to his father, remained to be considered.
苔丝几乎立即从安吉尔的银行家那里收到了三十英镑，而且，情况如此令人遗憾，一收到这笔钱，她就按照要求寄出了二十英镑。剩下的一部分她不得不用来买冬天的衣服，只留下象征性的钱来应付即将到来的整个严酷的季节。当最后一磅用完后，安吉尔的一句话仍然有待考虑，即每当她需要更多资源时，她都可以向他的父亲申请。

But the more Tess thought of the step, the more reluctant was she to take it. The same delicacy, pride, false shame, whatever it may be called, on Clare’s account, which had led her to hide from her own parents the prolongation of the estrangement, hindered her owning to his that she was in want after the fair allowance he had left her. They probably despised her already; how much more they would despise her in the character of a mendicant! The consequence was that by no effort could the parson’s daughter-in-law bring herself to let him know her state.
但苔丝越想这一步，就越不愿意迈出这一步。同样的温柔、骄傲、虚伪的羞耻，不管它可以被称为什么，在克莱尔看来，这些都导致她向自己的父母隐瞒了长期的疏远，阻碍了她向他承认，在他得到公平的津贴后，她陷入了贫困。已经离开了她。他们可能已经鄙视她了；更何况她是一个托钵僧，他们会更加鄙视她！结果是，牧师的儿媳妇无论如何也无法让他知道自己的处境。

Her reluctance to communicate with her husband’s parents might, she thought, lessen with the lapse of time; but with her own the reverse obtained. On her leaving their house after the short visit subsequent to her marriage they were under the impression that she was ultimately going to join her husband; and from that time to the present she had done nothing to disturb their belief that she was awaiting his return in comfort, hoping against hope that his journey to Brazil would result in a short stay only, after which he would come to fetch her, or that he would write for her to join him; in any case that they would soon present a united front to their families and the world. This hope she still fostered. To let her parents know that she was a deserted wife, dependent, now that she had relieved their necessities, on her own hands for a living, after the éclat of a marriage which was to nullify the collapse of the first attempt, would be too much indeed.
她想，随着时间的推移，她不愿与丈夫的父母沟通的情况可能会减少。但她自己却得到了相反的结果。当她在婚后短暂拜访后离开家时，他们的印象是她最终会与丈夫团聚。从那时起到现在，她没有做任何事情来扰乱他们的信念，即她正在舒适地等待他回来，希望他去巴西的旅程只会短暂停留，之后他会来接她，或者他会写信让她加入他；无论如何，他们很快就会向家人和世界展现出统一战线。她仍然怀有这个希望。让她的父母知道，她是一个被遗弃的妻子，依赖他人，现在她已经解决了他们的生活必需品，靠自己的双手谋生，在婚姻的辉煌结束后，第一次尝试的失败就变得无效了，这也太过分了。确实很多。

The set of brilliants returned to her mind. Where Clare had deposited them she did not know, and it mattered little, if it were true that she could only use and not sell them. Even were they absolutely hers it would be passing mean to enrich herself by a legal title to them which was not essentially hers at all.
她的脑海中又浮现出那组璀璨的光芒。克莱尔不知道它们存放在哪里，而且如果她确实只能使用而不能出售它们，那也没什么关系。即使它们绝对是她的，通过对它们本质上根本不属于她的合法所有权来充实自己也是一种过分的手段。

Meanwhile her husband’s days had been by no means free from trial. At this moment he was lying ill of fever in the clay lands near Curitiba in Brazil, having been drenched with thunder-storms and persecuted by other hardships, in common with all the English farmers and farm-labourers who, just at this time, were deluded into going thither by the promises of the Brazilian Government, and by the baseless assumption that those frames which, ploughing and sowing on English uplands, had resisted all the weathers to whose moods they had been born, could resist equally well all the weathers by which they were surprised on Brazilian plains.
与此同时，她丈夫的日子也并非没有受到考验。此时此刻，他正因发烧躺在巴西库里蒂巴附近的粘土地里，被雷暴雨淋湿，并受到其他苦难的迫害，就像所有此时正在遭受苦难的英国农民和农场工人一样。巴西政府的承诺和毫无根据的假设欺骗了他们前往那里，认为那些在英国高地上犁地和播种的框架，已经抵御了它们出生时的所有天气，也可以同样很好地抵御所有天气。他们在巴西平原上感到惊讶。

To return. Thus it happened that when the last of Tess’s sovereigns had been spent she was unprovided with others to take their place, while on account of the season she found it increasingly difficult to get employment. Not being aware of the rarity of intelligence, energy, health, and willingness in any sphere of life, she refrained from seeking an indoor occupation; fearing towns, large houses, people of means and social sophistication, and of manners other than rural. From that direction of gentility Black Care had come. Society might be better than she supposed from her slight experience of it. But she had no proof of this, and her instinct in the circumstances was to avoid its purlieus.
回来。因此，当苔丝的最后一个金币用完后，她没有其他人来代替她，而由于季节的原因，她发现找到工作越来越困难。由于没有意识到智力、精力、健康和意愿在生活的任何领域都是稀有的，她没有寻求室内职业；害怕城镇、大房子、有钱人和社会成熟度的人，以及不同于乡村的礼仪。布莱克关怀就是从那个温柔的方向而来的。社会可能比她根据自己的一点点经验想象的要好。但她没有证据证明这一点，在这种情况下，她的本能是避免这样做。

The small dairies to the west, beyond Port-Bredy, in which she had served as supernumerary milkmaid during the spring and summer required no further aid. Room would probably have been made for her at Talbothays, if only out of sheer compassion; but comfortable as her life had been there, she could not go back. The anti-climax would be too intolerable; and her return might bring reproach upon her idolized husband. She could not have borne their pity, and their whispered remarks to one another upon her strange situation; though she would almost have faced a knowledge of her circumstances by every individual there, so long as her story had remained isolated in the mind of each. It was the interchange of ideas about her that made her sensitiveness wince. Tess could not account for this distinction; she simply knew that she felt it.
布雷迪港以西的小乳品厂，她在春季和夏季担任额外的挤奶女工，不需要进一步的援助。如果只是出于纯粹的同情心，塔尔博塞斯很可能会为她腾出房间。尽管她在那里过着舒适的生活，但她却无法回去。反高潮太令人难以忍受了；她的回归可能会给她崇拜的丈夫带来耻辱。她无法忍受他们的怜悯，以及他们对她奇怪的处境的窃窃私语。尽管只要她的故事在每个人的脑海中保持孤立，她几乎就会面临那里的每个人都了解她的情况。正是关于她的想法的交流让她的敏感畏缩了。苔丝无法解释这种区别。她只是知道她感觉到了。

She was now on her way to an upland farm in the centre of the county, to which she had been recommended by a wandering letter which had reached her from Marian. Marian had somehow heard that Tess was separated from her husband—probably through Izz Huett—and the good-natured and now tippling girl, deeming Tess in trouble, had hastened to notify to her former friend that she herself had gone to this upland spot after leaving the dairy, and would like to see her there, where there was room for other hands, if it was really true that she worked again as of old.
她现在正在前往县中心的一个高地农场的路上，玛丽安寄来的一封流浪信推荐她去那里。玛丽安不知何故听说苔丝与她的丈夫分居了——可能是通过伊兹·休特——而这个心地善良、现在喝醉了的女孩，认为苔丝有麻烦了，赶紧通知她以前的朋友，她自己去了这个高地地方。离开乳品厂，如果她真的又像以前一样工作的话，我想在那里见到她，那里还有其他人的空间。

With the shortening of the days all hope of obtaining her husband’s forgiveness began to leave her; and there was something of the habitude of the wild animal in the unreflecting instinct with which she rambled on—disconnecting herself by littles from her eventful past at every step, obliterating her identity, giving no thought to accidents or contingencies which might make a quick discovery of her whereabouts by others of importance to her own happiness, if not to theirs.
随着日子的缩短，她开始不再希望得到丈夫的原谅。她漫无目的的本能中有一些野生动物的习惯——每走一步都将自己与她多事的过去一点一点地割裂开来，抹杀了她的身份，不考虑可能会很快发现的意外或偶然事件。其他人了解她的行踪，即使对他们的幸福不重要，对她自己的幸福也很重要。

Among the difficulties of her lonely position not the least was the attention she excited by her appearance, a certain bearing of distinction, which she had caught from Clare, being superadded to her natural attractiveness. Whilst the clothes lasted which had been prepared for her marriage, these casual glances of interest caused her no inconvenience, but as soon as she was compelled to don the wrapper of a fieldwoman, rude words were addressed to her more than once; but nothing occurred to cause her bodily fear till a particular November afternoon.
她孤独的处境给她带来的困难之一是，她的外表引起了人们的注意，她从克莱尔那里继承了某种独特的气质，这与她天生的吸引力相辅相成。当她为结婚准备的衣服还在用时，这些不经意的感兴趣的目光并没有给她带来任何不便，但当她被迫穿上田野妇女的裹布时，不止一次地对她说粗话；但直到十一月的一个下午，没有发生任何事情让她产生身体上的恐惧。

She had preferred the country west of the River Brit to the upland farm for which she was now bound, because, for one thing, it was nearer to the home of her husband’s father; and to hover about that region unrecognized, with the notion that she might decide to call at the Vicarage some day, gave her pleasure. But having once decided to try the higher and drier levels, she pressed back eastward, marching afoot towards the village of Chalk-Newton, where she meant to pass the night.
她更喜欢布里特河以西的乡村，而不是她现在要去的高地农场，因为，一方面，那里离她丈夫的父亲的家更近；另一方面，因为这里离她丈夫的父亲的家更近。在那个地区徘徊而不被认出，想着有一天她可能会决定去拜访牧师住宅，这让她很高兴。但一旦决定尝试更高、更干燥的高度，她就向东推进，步行前往查克-牛顿村，她打算在那里过夜。

The lane was long and unvaried, and, owing to the rapid shortening of the days, dusk came upon her before she was aware. She had reached the top of a hill down which the lane stretched its serpentine length in glimpses, when she heard footsteps behind her back, and in a few moments she was overtaken by a man. He stepped up alongside Tess and said—
小巷很长，没有什么变化，由于白天的时间很快缩短，不知不觉间，黄昏就降临到了她的身上。她已经到达了一座山顶，小巷在一眼间蜿蜒延伸，这时她听到背后有脚步声，不一会儿，她就被一个男人追上了。他走到苔丝身边说道——

‘Good night, my pretty maid”: to which she civilly replied.
“晚安，我漂亮的女仆”：她礼貌地回答道。

The light still remaining in the sky lit up her face, though the landscape was nearly dark. The man turned and stared hard at her.
天空中残留的光芒照亮了她的脸，尽管周围的景色几乎是黑暗的。男人转过身来，目光狠狠地盯着她。

‘Why, surely, it is the young wench who was at Trantridge awhile— young Squire d’Urberville’s friend? I was there at that time, though I don’t live there now.’
“为什么，肯定是那个曾在特兰特里奇呆过一段时间的年轻姑娘——年轻乡绅德伯维尔的朋友？当时我在那里，尽管我现在不住在那里。”

She recognized in him the well-to-do boor whom Angel had knocked down at the inn for addressing her coarsely. A spasm of anguish shot through her, and she returned him no answer.
她在他身上认出了那个富裕的乡巴佬，安吉尔在旅馆里因为粗鲁地对她说话而把他打倒了。一阵痛苦袭遍她全身，但她没有回答他。

‘Be honest enough to own it, and that what I said in the town was true, though your fancy-man was so up about it—hey, my sly one? You ought to beg my pardon for that blow of his, considering.’
“诚实地承认这一点，我在城里说的话都是真的，尽管你的花心男人对此非常兴奋——嘿，我的狡猾的人？考虑到这一点，你应该为他的那一击请求我的原谅。

Still no answer came from Tess. There seemed only one escape for her hunted soul. She suddenly took to her heels with the speed of the wind, and, without looking behind her, ran along the road till she came to a gate which opened directly into a plantation. Into this she plunged, and did not pause till she was deep enough in its shade to be safe against any possibility of discovery.
苔丝仍然没有回答。对于她那被追捕的灵魂来说，似乎只有一种出路。她突然以风速疾驰，头也不回地沿着路跑，直到来到一扇正对着种植园的大门前。她一头扎进了这个世界，直到她深入到它的阴影中以保证不会被发现的可能性时才停下来。

Under foot the leaves were dry, and the foliage of some holly bushes which grew among the deciduous trees was dense enough to keep off draughts. She scraped together the dead leaves till she had formed them into a large heap, making a sort of nest in the middle. Into this Tess crept.
脚下的树叶是干的，落叶树丛中生长的一些冬青灌木的叶子很茂密，足以挡风。她把枯叶拼凑起来，堆成一大堆，在中间搭了一个窝。苔丝爬了进去。

Such sleep as she got was naturally fitful; she fancied she heard strange noises, but persuaded herself that they were caused by the breeze. She thought of her husband in some vague warm clime on the other side of the globe, while she was here in the cold. Was there another such a wretched being as she in the world? Tess asked herself; and, thinking of her wasted life, said, ‘All is vanity.’ She repeated the words mechanically, till she reflected that this was a most inadequate thought for modern days. Solomon had thought as far as that more than two thousand years ago; she herself, though not in the van of thinkers, had got much further. If all were only vanity, who would mind it? All was, alas, worse than vanity—injustice, punishment, exaction, death. The wife of Angel Clare put her hand to her brow, and felt its curve, and the edges of her eye-sockets perceptible under the soft skin, and thought as she did so that a time would come when that bone would be bare. ‘I wish it were now,’ she said.
她的睡眠自然是断断续续的。她觉得自己听到了奇怪的声音，但又说服自己那是微风吹来的。她想到她的丈夫在地球另一端某个温暖的地方，而她却在寒冷的这里。这世上还有她这样的贱人吗？苔丝问自己：想到自己浪费的生命，她说道：“一切都是虚空。”她机械地重复着这句话，直到她意识到这对于现代来说是一个最不恰当的想法。所罗门早在两千多年前就已经想到了这一点。她本人虽然不属于思想家的前列，但却走得更远。如果一切都只是虚荣，谁会介意呢？唉，一切都比虚荣更糟糕——不公正、惩罚、勒索、死亡。安吉尔·克莱尔的妻子把手放在额头上，感受着额头的曲线，以及柔软皮肤下清晰可见的眼窝边缘，她一边想，总有一天那根骨头会裸露起来。 “我希望是现在，”她说。

In the midst of these whimsical fancies she heard a new strange sound among the leaves. It might be the wind; yet there was scarcely any wind. Sometimes it was a palpitation, sometimes a flutter; sometimes it was a sort of gasp or gurgle. Soon she was certain that the noises came from wild creatures of some kind, the more so when, originating in the boughs overhead, they were followed by the fall of a heavy body upon the ground. Had she been ensconced here under other and more pleasant conditions she would have become alarmed; but, outside humanity, she had at present no fear.
在这些异想天开的幻想中，她听到树叶间发出一种新的奇怪的声音。可能是风；但几乎没有风。有时是心悸，有时是心悸；有时是一种喘息声或咯咯声。很快她就确定这些声音来自某种野生动物，尤其是当这些声音源自头顶的树枝，随后一个沉重的尸体掉落在地上时，情况更是如此。如果她在其他更舒适的条件下安顿在这里，她一定会感到惊慌。但是，在人类之外，她目前没有恐惧。

Day at length broke in the sky. When it had been day aloft for some little while it became day in the wood.
天终于亮了。空中过了一会儿，树林里就变成白天了。

Directly the assuring and prosaic light of the world’s active hours had grown strong, she crept from under her hillock of leaves, and looked around boldly. Then she perceived what had been going on to disturb her. The plantation wherein she had taken shelter ran down at this spot into a peak, which ended it hitherward, outside the hedge being arable ground. Under the trees several pheasants lay about, their rich plumage dabbled with blood; some were dead, some feebly twitching a wing, some staring up at the sky, some pulsating quickly, some contorted, some stretched out—all of them writhing in agony, except the fortunate ones whose tortures had ended during the night by the inability of nature to bear more.
当世界活跃时刻那令人安心且平淡无奇的光芒变得强烈时，她从树叶小丘下爬出来，大胆地环顾四周。然后她意识到正在发生的事情困扰着她。她避难的种植园从这里一直延伸到一座山峰，一直延伸到这里，树篱外面是耕地。树下有几只野鸡，它们华丽的羽毛沾满了血。有的已经死了，有的无力地抽动翅膀，有的盯着天空，有的脉动很快，有的扭曲着，有的伸直了——所有的动物都在痛苦中翻滚，除了那些幸运的，他们的折磨在夜间因无力而结束。自然要承受更多。

Tess guessed at once the meaning of this. The birds had been driven down into this corner the day before by some shooting-party; and while those that had dropped dead under the shot, or had died before nightfall, had been searched for and carried off, many badly wounded birds had escaped and hidden themselves away, or risen among the thick boughs, where they had maintained their position till they grew weaker with loss of blood in the night-time, when they had fallen one by one as she had heard them.
苔丝立刻猜到了这句话的意思。这些鸟是前一天被某个射击队赶到这个角落里的。虽然那些在枪击中死去的鸟儿，或者在夜幕降临之前死去的鸟儿，都被搜寻并带走了，但许多受重伤的鸟儿已经逃脱并隐藏起来，或者在茂密的树枝中升起，一直坚守在原地，直到天亮。夜间，他们因失血而变得越来越虚弱，正如她所听到的那样，他们一个接一个地倒下。

She had occasionally caught glimpses of these men in girlhood, looking over hedges, or peeping through bushes, and pointing their guns, strangely accoutred, a bloodthirsty light in their eyes. She had been told that, rough and brutal as they seemed just then, they were not like this all the year round, but were, in fact, quite civil persons save during certain weeks of autumn and winter, when, like the inhabitants of the Malay Peninsula, they ran amuck, and made it their purpose to destroy life—in this case harmless feathered creatures, brought into being by artificial means solely to gratify these propensities—at once so unmannerly and so unchivalrous towards their weaker fellows in Nature’s teeming family.
她偶尔会瞥见这些少女时代的男人，他们越过树篱，或透过灌木丛窥视，并用枪指着枪，他们的枪械装备奇特，眼中闪烁着嗜血的光芒。有人告诉她，尽管他们当时看起来粗暴而残忍，但他们并非一年四季都这样，事实上，除了秋冬的某些星期外，他们都是相当文明的人，那时，就像当地的居民一样。在马来半岛，他们肆意妄为，以毁灭生命为目标——在这种情况下，是无害的有羽毛的生物，通过人工手段创造出来，只是为了满足这些倾向——同时对大自然大家庭中的弱者表现得如此无礼和无侠义。 。

With the impulse of a soul who could feel for kindred sufferers as much as for herself, Tess’s first thought was to put the still living birds out of their torture, and to this end with her own hands she broke the necks of as many as she could find, leaving them to lie where she had found them till the game-keepers should come—as they probably would come—to look for them a second time.
怀着对同胞受害者和对自己同样的感情的灵魂的冲动，苔丝的第一个想法就是让那些还活着的鸟儿免受折磨，为此，她亲手折断了尽可能多的鸟儿的脖子。她可以找到它们，把它们留在她发现它们的地方，直到猎场看守人来——他们很可能会来——第二次寻找它们。

‘Poor darlings—to suppose myself the most miserable being on earth in the sight o’ such misery as yours!’ she exclaimed, her tears running down as she killed the birds tenderly. ‘And not a twinge of bodily pain about me! I be not mangled, and I be not bleeding, and I have two hands to feed and clothe me.’ She was ashamed of herself for her gloom of the night, based on nothing more tangible than a sense of condemnation under an arbitrary law of society which had no foundation in Nature.
“可怜的宝贝们——看到你们这样的痛苦，竟然认为自己是地球上最痛苦的人！”她大声说道，当她温柔地杀死小鸟时，她的眼泪流了下来。 “我身上没有一丝疼痛！”我没有受伤，也没有流血，而且我有两只手可以喂我穿衣服。”她为自己夜晚的忧郁感到羞愧，这种感觉只不过是一种在任意法律下的谴责感。社会没有自然基础。

XLII

It was now broad day, and she started again, emerging cautiously upon the highway. But there was no need for caution; not a soul was at hand, and Tess went onward with fortitude, her recollection of the birds’ silent endurance of their night of agony impressing upon her the relativity of sorrows and the tolerable nature of her own, if she could once rise high enough to despise opinion. But that she could not do so long as it was held by Clare.
现在已经是大白天了，她又出发了，小心翼翼地出现在高速公路上。但没有必要小心谨慎。手边没有一个人，苔丝坚强地继续前行，她回忆起鸟儿们在痛苦的夜晚默默忍受的情景，这让她印象深刻，悲伤的相对性和她自己的可忍受的本性，如果她能一次上升到足够高的高度，鄙视意见。但只要克莱尔拿着它，她就做不到。

She reached Chalk-Newton, and breakfasted at an inn, where several young men were troublesomely complimentary to her good looks. Somehow she felt hopeful, for was it not possible that her husband also might say these same things to her even yet? She was bound to take care of herself on the chance of it, and keep off these casual lovers. To this end Tess resolved to run no further risks from her appearance. As soon as she got out of the village she entered a thicket and took from her basket one of the oldest field-gowns, which she had never put on even at the dairy—never since she had worked among the stubble at Marlott. She also, by a felicitous thought, took a handkerchief from her bundle and tied it round her face under her bonnet, covering her chin and half her cheeks and temples, as if she were suffering from toothache. Then with her little scissors, by the aid of a pocket looking-glass, she mercilessly nipped her eyebrows off, and thus insured against aggressive admiration, she went on her uneven way.
她到达查克·牛顿，在一家旅馆吃早餐，几个年轻人对她的美貌赞不绝口，令人烦恼。不知怎的，她心里充满了希望，因为她的丈夫难道不可能对她说同样的话吗？趁这个机会，她一定要照顾好自己，远离这些漫不经心的恋人。为此，苔丝决心不再再因自己的出现而冒任何风险。她一出村子，就走进了一片灌木丛，从篮子里拿出一件最古老的田野长袍，即使在奶牛场，她也从未穿上过——自从她在马洛特的麦茬里干活以来，她就从未穿过过。她还灵机一动，从包裹里拿出一块手帕，在帽子下围住脸，遮住下巴、半边脸颊和太阳穴，好像牙疼似的。然后，她用小剪刀，借助袖珍镜子，无情地把眉毛剪掉，这样就可以避免受到攻击性的崇拜，她继续走着自己不平坦的道路。

‘What a mommet of a maid!’ said the next man who met her to a companion.
“真是个妈妈般的女仆！”下一个迎接她的男人对同伴说道。

Tears came into her eyes for very pity of herself as she heard him.
当她听到他的话时，她的眼里涌出了泪水，因为她非常可怜自己。

‘But I don’t care!’ she said. ‘O no—I don’t care! I’ll always be ugly now, because Angel is not here, and I have nobody to take care of me. My husband that was is gone away, and never will love me any more; but I love him just the same, and hate all other men, and like to make ‘em think scornfully of me!’
“但我不在乎！”她说。 ‘噢，不——我不在乎！我现在永远都是丑陋的，因为天使不在，我也没有人照顾我。我的丈夫已经走了，他再也不会爱我了；但我同样爱他，讨厌所有其他男人，并且喜欢让“他们蔑视我！”

Thus Tess walks on; a figure which is part of the landscape; a fieldwoman pure and simple, in winter guise; a gray serge cape, a red woollen cravat, a stuff skirt covered by a whitey-brown rough wrapper, and buff-leather gloves. Every thread of that old attire has become faded and thin under the stroke of raindrops, the burn of sunbeams, and the stress of winds. There is no sign of young passion in her now—
苔丝就这样继续前行；风景中的人物；一个纯粹而简单的田野妇女，穿着冬天的装扮；灰色哔叽斗篷、红色羊毛领带、覆盖着白棕色粗糙裹布的填充裙子和浅黄色皮手套。那件旧衣服的每一根线都在雨滴的冲刷、阳光的灼烧和风的吹拂下变得褪色和稀疏。现在的她身上已经没有了年轻时的热情——

The maiden’s mouth is cold
少女嘴角冰凉

...
Fold over simple fold
折叠简单的折叠

Binding her head.
绑住她的头。

Inside this exterior, over which the eye might have roved as over a thing scarcely percipient, almost inorganic, there was the record of a pulsing life which had learnt too well, for its years, of the dust and ashes of things, of the cruelty of lust and the fragility of love.
在这个外表上，眼睛可能会在它上面徘徊，就像在一个几乎无法察觉的、几乎是无机的东西上徘徊，记录着一种脉动的生命，它已经在岁月中充分了解了事物的尘埃和灰烬，了解了残酷的事实。欲望和爱情的脆弱。

Next day the weather was bad, but she trudged on, the honesty, directness, and impartiality of elemental enmity disconcerting her but little. Her object being a winter’s occupation and a winter’s home, there was no time to lose. Her experience of short hirings had been such that she was determined to accept no more.
第二天，天气很糟糕，但她艰难地前行，诚实、直接和公正的基本敌意并没有让她感到不安。她的目标是冬天的职业和冬天的家，不能浪费时间。她经历过短期聘用，因此决定不再接受。

Thus she went forward from farm to farm in the direction of the place whence Marian had written to her, which she determined to make use of as a last shift only, its rumoured stringencies being the reverse of tempting. First she inquired for the lighter kinds of employment, and, as acceptance in any variety of these grew hopeless, applied next for the less light, till, beginning with the dairy and poultry tendance that she liked best, she ended with the heavy and course pursuits which she liked least—work on arable land: work of such roughness, indeed, as she would never have deliberately voluteered for.
就这样，她从一个农场走到另一个农场，朝玛丽安写信给她的地方走去，她决定只把那里当作最后一班，传闻中的严格规定与诱惑相反。首先，她询问了较轻松的工作，并且，由于对任何种类的接受都变得无望，接下来她申请了较不轻松的工作，直到从她最喜欢的乳制品和家禽业开始，她以繁重和课程结束她最不喜欢的追求是在耕地上工作：事实上，这种工作是如此艰苦，她绝不会故意去从事。

Towards the second evening she reached the irregular chalk table-land or plateau, bosomed with semi-globular tumuli—as if Cybele the Many-breasted were supinely extended there—which stretched between the valley of her birth and the valley of her love.
第二天晚上，她到达了不规则的白垩台地或高原，周围有半球形的坟墓——仿佛多乳的西布莉仰卧在那里——它在她出生的山谷和她爱的山谷之间延伸。

Here the air was dry and cold, and the long cart-roads were blown white and dusty within a few hours after rain. There were few trees, or none, those that would have grown in the hedges being mercilessly plashed down with the quickset by the tenant-farmers, the natural enemies of tree, bush, and brake. In the middle distance ahead of her she could see the summits of Bulbarrow and of Nettlecombe Tout, and they seemed friendly. They had a low and unassuming aspect from this upland, though as approached on the other side from Blackmoor in her childhood they were as lofty bastions against the sky. Southerly, at many miles’ distance, and over the hills and ridges coastward, she could discern a surface like polished steel: it was the English Channel at a point far out towards France.
这里的空气又干又冷，雨后几个小时内，长长的马路就被风吹得雪白、尘土飞扬。几乎没有树，或者根本没有树，那些原本生长在树篱里的树都被佃农无情地用快速装置击倒了，这些佃农是树木、灌木和灌木的天敌。在她前面不远处，她可以看到布尔巴罗峰和内特尔科姆图特峰的山峰，它们看起来很友好。从这片高地上看，它们显得低调而谦逊，但当她童年时从布莱克莫尔的另一边走近时，它们就像天空下的高耸堡垒。向南，在数英里之外，越过海岸的山丘和山脊，她可以看到一个像抛光钢铁一样的表面：那是英吉利海峡，位于远离法国的地方。

Before her, in a slight depression, were the remains of a village. She had, in fact, reached Flintcomb-Ash, the place of Marian’s sojourn. There seemed to be no help for it; hither she was doomed to come. The stubborn soil around her showed plainly enough that the kind of labour in demand here was of the roughest kind; but it was time to rest from searching, and she resolved to stay, particularly as it began to rain. At the entrance to the village was a cottage whose gable jutted into the road, and before applying for a lodging she stood under its shelter, and watched the evening close in.
在她面前，略显凹陷的是一座村庄的废墟。事实上，她已经到达了弗林特科姆-艾什，玛丽安的逗留地。似乎没有什么帮助。她注定要来这里。她周围的顽固土壤清楚地表明，这里需要的劳动是最艰苦的劳动。但现在是时候结束搜索休息了，她决定留下来，尤其是在开始下雨的时候。村口有一座小屋，山墙伸到路边，在申请住宿之前，她站在小屋的庇护下，看着夜幕降临。

‘Who would think I was Mrs Angel Clare!’ she said.
“谁会想到我是安吉尔·克莱尔夫人！”她说。

The wall felt warm to her back and shoulders, and she found that immediately within the gable was the cottage fireplace, the heat of which came through the bricks. She warmed her hands upon them, and also put her cheek—red and moist with the drizzle—against their comforting surface. The wall seemed to be the only friend she had. She had so little wish to leave it that she could have stayed there all night.
她的背和肩膀感觉墙壁很温暖，她发现山墙内就是小屋的壁炉，热量透过砖块散发出来。她用双手温暖着它们，还把她的脸颊——被毛毛雨弄得通红湿润——放在它们舒适的表面上。墙壁似乎是她唯一的朋友。她实在不想离开它，所以她可以在那里待上一整夜。

Tess could hear the occupants of the cottage—gathered together after their day’s labour—talking to each other within, and the rattle of their supper-plates was also audible. But in the village-street she had seen no soul as yet. The solitude was at last broken by the approach of one feminine figure, who, though the evening was cold, wore the print gown and the tilt-bonnet of summer time. Tess instinctively thought it might be Marian, and when she came near enough to be distinguishable in the gloom, surely enough it was she. Marian was even stouter and redder in the face than formerly, and decidedly shabbier in attire. At any previous period of her existence Tess would hardly have cared to renew the acquaintance in such conditions; but her loneliness was excessive, and she responded readily to Marian’s greeting.
苔丝能听到小屋里的人们——结束一天的劳作后聚集在一起——在里面互相交谈，也能听到他们晚餐盘子的嘎嘎声。但在村里的街道上她还没有看到任何人影。孤独终于被一个女性身影的走近打破，尽管夜晚寒冷，她却穿着印花长袍，戴着夏日的倾斜帽子。苔丝本能地认为这可能是玛丽安，当她走近得足以在黑暗中辨认出来时，肯定是她了。玛丽安比以前更胖了，脸更红了，衣服也明显更破旧了。在这种情况下，苔丝在以前的任何时期都不会愿意重新认识她。但她太孤独了，所以她很乐意地回应玛丽安的问候。

Marian was quite respectful in her inquiries, but seemed much moved by the fact that Tess should still continue in no better condition than at first; though she had dimly heard of the separation.
玛丽安对她的询问非常尊重，但似乎对苔丝的状况仍不比最初好多少这一事实感到非常感动。尽管她隐隐约约听到了分居的消息。

‘Tess—Mrs Clare—the dear wife of dear he! And is it really so bad as this, my child? Why is your cwomely face tied up in such a way? Anybody been beating ‘ee? Not HE?’
“苔丝——克莱尔夫人——亲爱的他的亲爱的妻子！我的孩子，事情真的有这么糟糕吗？你那张漂亮的脸怎么绑成这样？有人打过“ee”吗？不是他吗？

‘No, no, no! I merely did it not to be clipsed or colled, Marian.’
'不不不！我这样做只是为了不被剪断或折叠，玛丽安。”

She pulled off in disgust a bandage which could suggest such wild thoughts.
她厌恶地扯下一条可能暗示出如此疯狂想法的绷带。

‘And you’ve got no collar on’ (Tess had been accustomed to wear a little white collar at the dairy).
“而且你没有戴领子”（苔丝在奶牛场已经习惯了穿小白领子）。

‘I know it, Marian.’
“我知道，玛丽安。”

‘You’ve lost it travelling.’
“你在旅行中失去了它。”

‘I’ve not lost it. The truth is, I don’t care anything about my looks; and so I didn’t put it on.’
‘我没有失去它。事实是，我不在乎自己的外表；我不在乎。所以我没有戴上它。

‘And you don’t wear your wedding-ring?’
“你没戴结婚戒指吗？”

‘Yes, I do; but not in public. I wear it round my neck on a ribbon. I don’t wish people to think who I am by marriage, or that I am married at all; it would be so awkward while I lead my present life.’
'是的，我愿意;但不在公共场合。我用丝带把它挂在脖子上。我不希望人们因为婚姻而认为我是谁，或者我根本就结婚了；如果我现在过着现在的生活，那就太尴尬了。”

Marian paused.
玛丽安停了下来。

‘But you BE a gentleman’s wife; and it seems hardly fair that you should live like this!’
“但你是一位绅士的妻子；你这样生活似乎不太公平！”

‘O yes it is, quite fair; though I am very unhappy.’
‘噢，是的，非常公平；虽然我很不高兴。

‘Well, well. HE married you—and you can be unhappy!’
'好吧。他娶了你——你可能会不快乐！”

‘Wives are unhappy sometimes; from no fault of their husbands—from their own.’
“妻子们有时会不高兴；这不是她们丈夫的错，而是她们自己的错。”

‘You’ve no faults, deary; that I’m sure of. And he’s none. So it must be something outside ye both.’
“亲爱的，你没有缺点；我确信。而他什么都不是。所以你们俩一定是外面有什么东西。

‘Marian, dear Marian, will you do me a good turn without asking questions? My husband has gone abroad, and somehow I have overrun my allowance, so that I have to fall back upon my old work for a time. Do not call me Mrs Clare, but Tess, as before. Do they want a hand here?’
“玛丽安，亲爱的玛丽安，你能不问问题就帮我一个忙吗？”老公出国了，我的零用钱不知何故超支了，所以我只能暂时靠老干活。不要像以前一样叫我克莱尔夫人，而是叫苔丝。他们需要帮忙吗？

‘O yes; they’ll take one always, because few care to come. ‘Tis a starve-acre place. Corn and swedes are all they grow. Though I be here myself, I feel ‘tis a pity for such as you to come.’
'哦是啊;他们总是会带一个，因为很少有人愿意来。这是一个饥荒之地。他们只种玉米和瑞典菜。虽然我自己也来了，但我觉得‘你这样的人来了真是可惜’。

‘But you used to be as good a dairywoman as I.’
“但你曾经是一个和我一样优秀的挤奶女工。”

‘Yes; but I’ve got out o’ that since I took to drink. Lord, that’s the only comfort I’ve got now! If you engage, you’ll be set swede-hacking. That’s what I be doing; but you won’t like it.’
'是的;但自从我喝酒之后我就戒掉了。主啊，这是我现在唯一的安慰！如果你参与，你就会被设置为瑞典黑客。这就是我正在做的事情；但你不会喜欢它。

‘O—anything! Will you speak for me?’
‘噢——什么都行！你愿意为我说话吗？

‘You will do better by speaking for yourself.’
“为自己说话，你会做得更好。”

‘Very well. Now, Marian, remember—nothing about HIM if I get the place. I don’t wish to bring his name down to the dirt.’
'很好。现在，玛丽安，记住——如果我得到了这个位置，就不要管他了。我不想让他的名字被埋没。

Marian, who was really a trustworthy girl though of coarser grain than Tess, promised anything she asked.
玛丽安确实是个值得信赖的女孩，虽然她的气质比苔丝粗一些，但她提出的任何要求都答应了。

‘This is pay-night,’ she said, ‘and if you were to come with me you would know at once. I be real sorry that you are not happy; but ‘tis because he’s away, I know. You couldn’t be unhappy if he were here, even if he gie’d ye no money—even if he used you like a drudge.’
“这是发薪之夜，”她说，“如果你跟我一起去，你马上就会知道。我真的很抱歉你不高兴；但我知道，这是因为他不在。如果他在这里，你就不会不高兴，即使他没有给你钱——即使他把你当作苦役。

‘That’s true; I could not!’
'这是真的;我不能！'

They walked on together and soon reached the farmhouse, which was almost sublime in its dreariness. There was not a tree within sight; there was not, at this season, a green pasture—nothing but fallow and turnips everywhere, in large fields divided by hedges plashed to unrelieved levels.
他们一起继续前行，很快就到了农舍，农舍在沉闷中近乎庄严。视线范围内没有一棵树。这个季节，这里没有一片绿色的牧场——除了休耕地和到处都是萝卜之外，什么都没有，大片的田野被高高的树篱隔开。

Tess waited outside the door of the farmhouse till the group of workfolk had received their wages, and then Marian introduced her. The farmer himself, it appeared, was not at home, but his wife, who represented him this evening, made no objection to hiring Tess, on her agreeing to remain till Old Lady-Day. Female field-labour was seldom offered now, and its cheapness made it profitable for tasks which women could perform as readily as men.
苔丝在农舍门外等着，直到那群工人领到了工资，然后玛丽安介绍了她。农夫本人似乎并不在家，但今晚代表他的妻子并不反对雇用苔丝，因为她同意留下来直到老太太节。现在很少提供女性田野劳动，而且其成本低廉使得女性可以像男性一样轻松完成的任务变得有利可图。

Having signed the agreement, there was nothing more for Tess to do at present than to get a lodging, and she found one in the house at whose gable-wall she had warmed herself. It was a poor subsistence that she had ensured, but it would afford a shelter for the winter at any rate.
签了协议，苔丝现在除了找个住处之外别无他法，她在房子的山墙边找到了一个住处，她已经在山墙边取暖了。她所保证的生活条件很差，但至少可以提供过冬的庇护所。

That night she wrote to inform her parents of her new address, in case a letter should arrive at Marlott from her husband. But she did not tell them of the sorriness of her situation: it might have brought reproach upon him.
那天晚上，她写信告诉父母她的新地址，以防她丈夫寄来一封信给马洛特。但她没有告诉他们她的处境有多悲惨：这可能会给他带来耻辱。

XLIII

There was no exaggeration in Marian’s definition of Flintcomb-Ash farm as a starve-acre place. The single fat thing on the soil was Marian herself; and she was an importation. Of the three classes of village, the village cared for by its lord, the village cared for by itself, and the village uncared for either by itself or by its lord (in other words, the village of a resident squires’s tenantry, the village of freeor copy-holders, and the absentee-owner’s village, farmed with the land) this place, Flintcomb-Ash, was the third.
玛丽安将弗林特科姆-阿什农场定义为一片饥饿之地，这一点毫不夸张。土壤上唯一的肥肉就是玛丽安本人。她是一个进口货。三类村中，有领主管理的村、自管的村、不自管或不由主管理的村（换句话说，就是常住乡绅佃农的村、自管的村）。第三个地方是弗林特科姆-阿什（Flintcomb-Ash）。

But Tess set to work. Patience, that blending of moral courage with physical timidity, was now no longer a minor feature in Mrs Angel Clare; and it sustained her.
但苔丝开始工作。耐心，这种道德勇气与身体胆怯的结合，现在不再是安吉尔·克莱尔夫人的一个小特征；这支撑着她。

The swede-field in which she and her companion were set hacking was a stretch of a hundred odd acres in one patch, on the highest ground of the farm, rising above stony lanchets or lynchets—the outcrop of siliceous veins in the chalk formation, composed of myriads of loose white flints in bulbous, cusped, and phallic shapes. The upper half of each turnip had been eaten off by the live-stock, and it was the business of the two women to grub up the lower or earthy half of the root with a hooked fork called a hacker, that it might be eaten also. Every leaf of the vegetable having already been consumed, the whole field was in colour a desolate drab; it was a complexion without features, as if a face, from chin to brow, should be only an expanse of skin. The sky wore, in another colour, the same likeness; a white vacuity of countenance with the lineaments gone. So these two upper and nether visages confronted each other all day long, the white face looking down on the brown face, and the brown face looking up at the white face, without anything standing between them but the two girls crawling over the surface of the former like flies.
她和她的同伴正在砍伐的瑞典田地有一百多英亩，位于农场的最高处，高出石质长枪或私刑枪——白垩地层中硅质脉的露头，由无数松散的白色燧石组成，形状为球状、尖头状和阴茎状。每个萝卜的上半部分都被牲畜吃掉了，这两个女人的任务是用一把被称为黑客的钩叉叉子把根的下半部分或泥土部分挖出来，这样它也可以被吃掉。蔬菜的每一片叶子都已经被吃光了，整个田野的颜色一片荒凉。那是一种没有五官的肤色，仿佛一张脸，从下巴到眉毛，应该只是一片皮肤。天空也呈现出同样的颜色，不过是另一种颜色。面容苍白，面容空虚，轮廓消失了。于是这两张上下脸整天对峙着，白色的脸俯视着棕色的脸，棕色的脸仰视着白色的脸，没有任何东西可以阻挡他们，只有两个女孩在水面上爬行。以前像苍蝇一样。

Nobody came near them, and their movements showed a mechanical regularity; their forms standing enshrouded in Hessian ‘wroppers’— sleeved brown pinafores, tied behind to the bottom, to keep their gowns from blowing about—scant skirts revealing boots that reached high up the ankles, and yellow sheepskin gloves with gauntlets. The pensive character which the curtained hood lent to their bent heads would have reminded the observer of some early Italian conception of the two Marys.
没有人靠近他们，他们的动作表现出机械的规律性。她们的身躯裹着黑森州的“裹身衣”——有袖的棕色围裙，系在背后，防止长袍被风吹乱——短裙露出长及脚踝的靴子，戴着带有护手的黄色羊皮手套。蒙着帘子的兜帽给她们低下的头带来了沉思的性格，这会让观察者想起意大利早期对两位玛丽的看法。

They worked on hour after hour, unconscious of the forlorn aspect they bore in the landscape, not thinking of the justice or injustice of their lot. Even in such a position as theirs it was possible to exist in a dream. In the afternoon the rain came on again, and Marian said that they need not work any more. But if they did not work they would not be paid; so they worked on. It was so high a situation, this field, that the rain had no occasion to fall, but raced along horizontally upon the yelling wind, sticking into them like glass splinters till they were wet through. Tess had not known till now what was really meant by that. There are degrees of dampness, and a very little is called being wet through in common talk. But to stand working slowly in a field, and feel the creep of rain-water, first in legs and shoulders, then on hips and head, then at back, front, and sides, and yet to work on till the leaden light diminishes and marks that the sun is down, demands a distinct modicum of stoicism, even of valour.
他们一小时又一小时地工作，没有意识到自己在风景中的凄凉，也没有考虑自己命运的正义或不正义。即使处于他们这样的位置，也有可能存在于梦中。下午又下雨了，玛丽安说他们不用再工作了。但如果他们不工作，他们就得不到报酬；所以他们继续努力。这片田野地势如此之高，雨水根本来不及落下，而是在呼啸的风中横流而下，像玻璃碎片一样粘在它们身上，直到它们湿透。苔丝直到现在才明白这句话的真正含义。潮湿有不同的程度，极少的程度就是俗话说的湿透。但要站在田野里慢慢地干活，感受雨水的蠕动，首先是腿部和肩膀，然后是臀部和头部，然后是背部、前面和两侧，然后继续工作，直到铅灰色的光线减弱，标志着太阳落山，需要一定程度的坚忍，甚至勇气。

Yet they did not feel the wetness so much as might be supposed. They were both young, and they were talking of the time when they lived and loved together at Talbothays Dairy, that happy green tract of land where summer had been liberal in her gifts; in substance to all, emotionally to these. Tess would fain not have conversed with Marian of the man who was legally, if not actually, her husband; but the irresistible fascination of the subject betrayed her into reciprocating Marian’s remarks. And thus, as has been said, though the damp curtains of their bonnets flapped smartly into their faces, and their wrappers clung about them to wearisomeness, they lived all this afternoon in memories of green, sunny, romantic Talbothays.
然而，他们并没有像想象中那样感觉到潮湿。他们都很年轻，正在谈论他们在塔尔博塞斯乳品厂一起生活和相爱的时光，那是一片幸福的绿地，夏天在那里慷慨地施展着她的天赋；对所有人来说是实质上的，对这些来说是情感上的。苔丝不愿与玛丽安交谈，因为这个男人在法律上（如果不是实际上）是她的丈夫。但这个话题不可抗拒的魅力让她对玛丽安的言论做出了回应。因此，正如已经说过的，尽管帽子上潮湿的帘子啪嗒啪嗒地拍打着他们的脸，裹着的裹布使他们感到疲倦，但整个下午他们都生活在绿色、阳光明媚、浪漫的塔尔博塞斯的记忆中。

‘You can see a gleam of a hill within a few miles o’ Froom Valley from here when ‘tis fine,’ said Marian.
“天气好的时候，从这里可以看到弗鲁姆山谷几英里范围内一座小山的光芒，”玛丽安说。

‘Ah! Can you?’ said Tess, awake to the new value of this locality.
'啊！你可以吗？”苔丝说道，她意识到了这个地方的新价值。

So the two forces were at work here as everywhere, the inherent will to enjoy, and the circumstantial will against enjoyment. Marian’s will had a method of assisting itself by taking from her pocket as the afternoon wore on a pint bottle corked with white rag, from which she invited Tess to drink. Tess’s unassisted power of dreaming, however, being enough for her sublimation at present, she declined except the merest sip, and then Marian took a pull from the spirits.
因此，两种力量在这里发挥着作用，就像在任何地方一样，内在的享受意愿和反对享受的环境意愿。玛丽安的遗嘱有一个帮助自己的方法，当下午过去时，她从口袋里拿出一个用白布塞住的品脱瓶子，邀请苔丝喝。不过，苔丝单靠做梦的力量，目前足以让她升华，她只喝了一小口，就谢绝了，然后玛丽安就受到了精神的吸引。

‘I’ve got used to it,’ she said, ‘and can’t leave it off now. ‘Tis my only comfort—You see I lost him: you didn’t; and you can do without it perhaps.’
“我已经习惯了，”她说，“现在不能离开它。”这是我唯一的安慰——你看我失去了他：你没有；也许你可以不用它。

Tess thought her loss as great as Marian’s, but upheld by the dignity of being Angel’s wife, in the letter at least, she accepted Marian’s differentiation.
苔丝认为自己的损失和玛丽安的损失一样大，但出于作为安吉尔妻子的尊严，至少在信中，她接受了玛丽安的区别。

Amid this scene Tess slaved in the morning frosts and in the afternoon rains. When it was not swede-grubbing it was swede-trimming, in which process they sliced off the earth and the fibres with a bill-hook before storing the roots for future use. At this occupation they could shelter themselves by a thatched hurdle if it rained; but if it was frosty even their thick leather gloves could not prevent the frozen masses they handled from biting their fingers. Still Tess hoped. She had a conviction that sooner or later the magnanimity which she persisted in reckoning as a chief ingredient of Clare’s character would lead him to rejoin her.
在这一幕中，苔丝在早晨的霜冻和下午的雨中劳作。当它不被瑞典人挖掘时，就会被瑞典人修剪，在这个过程中，他们用钩子切掉泥土和纤维，然后储存根部以备将来使用。在这个职业中，如果下雨，他们可以用茅草栏杆躲避。但如果是霜冻天气，即使是厚厚的皮手套也无法阻止他们所处理的冰块咬伤手指。苔丝仍然抱有希望。她坚信，她坚持认为克莱尔性格中主要成分的宽宏大量，迟早会让他重新回到她身边。

Marian, primed to a humorous mood, would discover the queer-shaped flints aforesaid, and shriek with laughter, Tess remaining severely obtuse. They often looked across the country to where the Var or Froom was know to stretch, even though they might not be able to see it; and, fixing their eyes on the cloaking gray mist, imagined the old times they had spent out there.
充满幽默感的玛丽安会发现上述奇怪形状的燧石，然后尖叫起来，而苔丝则显得非常迟钝。他们经常眺望整个国家，看看瓦尔河或弗鲁姆河延伸的地方，尽管他们可能看不到。他们的眼睛盯着笼罩着的灰色雾气，想象着他们在那里度过的旧时光。

‘Ah,’ said Marian, ‘how I should like another or two of our old set to come here! Then we could bring up Talbothays every day here afield, and talk of he, and of what nice times we had there, and o’ the old things we used to know, and make it all come back a’most, in seeming!’ Marian’s eyes softened, and her voice grew vague as the visions returned. ‘I’ll write to Izz Huett,’ she said. ‘She’s biding at home doing nothing now, I know, and I’ll tell her we be here, and ask her to come; and perhaps Retty is well enough now.’
“啊，”玛丽安说，“我多么希望我们的老朋友能再来这里一两个啊！”然后我们就可以每天在外地提起塔尔博塞斯，谈论他，谈论我们在那里度过的美好时光，谈论我们曾经知道的旧事，让一切都回归到“最，看起来！”当幻象再次出现时，玛丽安的眼神变得柔和，声音也变得模糊。 “我会写信给伊兹·休特，”她说。 “我知道，她现在在家里无所事事，我会告诉她我们在这里，并请她过来；也许雷蒂现在已经足够好了。

Tess had nothing to say against the proposal, and the next she heard of this plan for importing old Talbothays’ joys was two or three days later, when Marian informed her that Izz had replied to her inquiry, and had promised to come if she could.
苔丝对这个提议没有什么可说的，她下一次听说这个进口老塔尔博塞斯的快乐的计划是两三天后，当时玛丽安告诉她，伊兹已经答复了她的询问，并答应如果可以的话就来。 。

There had not been such a winter for years. It came on in stealthy and measured glides, like the moves of a chess-player. One morning the few lonely trees and the thorns of the hedgerows appeared as if they had put off a vegetable for an animal integument. Every twig was covered with a white nap as of fur grown from the rind during the night, giving it four times its usual stoutness; the whole bush or tree forming a staring sketch in white lines on the mournful gray of the sky and horizon. Cobwebs revealed their presence on sheds and walls where none had ever been observed till brought out into visibility by the crystallizing atmosphere, hanging like loops of white worsted from salient points of the out-houses, posts, and gates.
已经很多年没有遇到过这样的冬天了。它以隐秘而有节奏的滑行方式出现，就像国际象棋棋手的走法一样。一天早晨，几棵孤零零的树和树篱上的刺看起来就像把蔬菜换成了动物的皮毛。每根树枝上都覆盖着白色的绒毛，就像夜间从外皮上长出的毛皮一样，使其坚固程度是平时的四倍。整个灌木丛或树木在悲伤的灰色天空和地平线上用白线形成凝视的草图。蜘蛛网在棚屋和墙壁上显露出来，直到被结晶的气氛带入可见范围之前，人们从未观察到过蜘蛛网的存在，它们像白色精纺毛圈一样悬挂在外屋、哨所和大门的突出点上。

After this season of congealed dampness came a spell of dry frost, when strange birds from behind the North Pole began to arrive silently on the upland of Flintcomb-Ash; gaunt spectral creatures with tragical eyes—eyes which had witnessed scenes of cataclysmal horror in inaccessible polar regions of a magnitude such as no human being had ever conceived, in curdling temperatures that no man could endure; which had beheld the crash of icebergs and the slide of snow-hills by the shooting light of the Aurora; been half blinded by the whirl of colossal storms and terraqueous distortions; and retained the expression of feature that such scenes had engendered. These nameless birds came quite near to Tess and Marian, but of all they had seen which humanity would never see, they brought no account. The traveller’s ambition to tell was not theirs, and, with dumb impassivity, they dismissed experiences which they did not value for the immediate incidents of this homely upland—the trivial movements of the two girls in disturbing the clods with their hackers so as to uncover something or other that these visitants relished as food.
在这个凝结的潮湿季节之后，出现了一段干霜期，来自北极后面的奇怪鸟类开始悄无声息地抵达燧石科姆阿什高地。憔悴的幽灵生物，有着悲惨的眼睛——这些眼睛在人迹罕至的极地地区亲眼目睹了灾难性的恐怖场景，其规模是人类从未想象过的，在人类无法忍受的凝固温度下；他们在极光的射光下目睹了冰山的崩塌和雪山的滑落；被巨大的风暴和陆地扭曲的漩涡弄得半睁不开；并保留了这些场景所产生的特征表达。这些无名的鸟儿离苔丝和玛丽安很近，但它们所看到的一切人类永远看不到的东西，却没有带来任何记录。旅行者的野心不是他们要讲述的，而且，他们以愚蠢的冷漠态度，驳回了他们不重视的经历，因为他们不重视这个朴素高地的直接事件——两个女孩用黑客扰乱土块的琐碎动作，以揭开真相。这些来访者喜欢作为食物的东西。

Then one day a peculiar quality invaded the air of this open country. There came a moisture which was not of rain, and a cold which was not of frost. It chilled the eyeballs of the twain, made their brows ache, penetrated to their skeletons, affecting the surface of the body less than its core. They knew that it meant snow, and in the night the snow came. Tess, who continued to live at the cottage with the warm gable that cheered any lonely pedestrian who paused beside it, awoke in the night, and heard above the thatch noises which seemed to signify that the roof had turned itself into a gymnasium of all the winds. When she lit her lamp to get up in the morning she found that the snow had blown through a chink in the casement, forming a white cone of the finest powder against the inside, and had also come down the chimney, so that it lay sole-deep upon the floor, on which her shoes left tracks when she moved about. Without, the storm drove so fast as to create a snow-mist in the kitchen; but as yet it was too dark out-of-doors to see anything.
有一天，这片空旷乡村的空气中弥漫着一种奇特的气息。出现了一种非雨的潮湿，一种非霜的寒冷。它让两人的眼珠发冷，眉心生疼，深入骨髓，对身体表面的影响小于对核心的影响。他们知道这意味着下雪，夜里就下雪了。苔丝继续住在小屋里，小屋里有温暖的山墙，每一个在山墙边停下来的孤独行人都会为之欢呼，她在夜里醒来，听到茅草顶上有声音，这似乎表明屋顶已经变成了所有人的体育馆。风。早上，当她点灯起床时，她发现雪已经从窗户的缝隙中吹了出来，在里面形成了一个白色的圆锥体，里面有最细的粉末，而且还从烟囱里流了下来，所以它只躺在地上。 ——深深地扎在地板上，当她走动时，她的鞋子会在上面留下痕迹。外面，暴风雨来得如此之快，以至于在厨房里产生了雪雾。但室外还很黑，什么也看不见。

Tess knew that it was impossible to go on with the swedes; and by the time she had finished breakfast beside the solitary little lamp, Marian arrived to tell her that they were to join the rest of the women at reed-drawing in the barn till the weather changed. As soon, therefore, as the uniform cloak of darkness without began to turn to a disordered medley of grays, they blew out the lamp, wrapped themselves up in their thickest pinners, tied their woollen cravats round their necks and across their chests, and started for the barn. The snow had followed the birds from the polar basin as a white pillar of a cloud, and individual flakes could not be seen. The blast smelt of icebergs, arctic seas, whales, and white bears, carrying the snow so that it licked the land but did not deepen on it. They trudged onwards with slanted bodies through the flossy fields, keeping as well as they could in the shelter of hedges, which, however, acted as strainers rather than screens. The air, afflicted to pallor with the hoary multitudes that infested it, twisted and spun them eccentrically, suggesting an achromatic chaos of things. But both the young women were fairly cheerful; such weather on a dry upland is not in itself dispiriting.
苔丝知道和瑞典人相处是不可能的。当她在孤零零的小灯旁吃完早餐时，玛丽安过来告诉她，她们要和其他妇女一起在谷仓里画芦苇，直到天气变好。因此，当外面均匀的黑暗斗篷开始变成混乱的灰色混合体时，他们就吹灭了灯，用最厚的别针把自己裹起来，把羊毛领带系在脖子上和胸前，然后开始对于谷仓。雪像白色的云柱一样跟随极地盆地的鸟儿而来，看不到一片片雪花。狂风吹来冰山、北冰洋、鲸鱼和白熊的味道，带来的积雪舔舐着陆地，但并没有加深。他们倾斜着身体，在长满绒毛的田野里艰难前行，尽可能地躲在树篱的庇护下，然而，树篱的作用是过滤器而不是屏障。空气因大量的苍白而苍白，它们古怪地扭曲和旋转，暗示着事物的无色混乱。但这两个年轻女子都相当开朗。干燥高地的这种天气本身并不令人沮丧。

‘Ha-ha! the cunning northern birds knew this was coming,’ said Marian. ‘Depend upon’t, they keep just in front o’t all the way from the North Star. Your husband, my dear, is, I make no doubt, having scorching weather all this time. Lord, if he could only see his pretty wife now! Not that this weather hurts your beauty at all—in fact, it rather does it good.’
'哈哈！狡猾的北方鸟类知道这一切即将到来，”玛丽安说。 “靠，他们一直就在北极星的前面。亲爱的，我毫不怀疑，你的丈夫一直遭受着炎热的天气。天哪，如果他现在能看到他美丽的妻子就好了！这种天气一点也不影响你的美丽——事实上，它反而有好处。

‘You mustn’t talk about him to me, Marian,’ said Tess severely.
“玛丽安，你不准跟我谈论他。”苔丝严厉地说。

‘Well, but—surely you care for’n! Do you?’
‘好吧，但是——你肯定很关心！你？'

Instead of answering, Tess, with tears in her eyes, impulsively faced in the direction in which she imagined South America to lie, and, putting up her lips, blew out a passionate kiss upon the snowy wind.
苔丝没有回答，而是泪流满面，冲动地面向她想象中的南美所在的方向，扬起嘴唇，在雪风中吐出一个热烈的吻。

‘Well, well, I know you do. But ‘pon my body, it is a rum life for a married couple! There—I won’t say another word! Well, as for the weather, it won’t hurt us in the wheat-barn; but reed-drawing is fearful hard work—worse than swede-hacking. I can stand it because I’m stout; but you be slimmer than I. I can’t think why maister should have set ‘ee at it.’
‘好吧，好吧，我知道你会的。但‘在我的身上，这是一对已婚夫妇的朗姆酒生活！就这样——我不再多说了！好吧，至于天气，它不会影响我们在麦仓里；但拉芦苇是一项可怕的艰苦工作——比瑞典黑客更糟糕。我能忍受，因为我很壮实；但你比我苗条。我不明白为什么老师要设置“ee at it”。

They reached the wheat-barn and entered it. One end of the long structure was full of corn; the middle was where the reed-drawing was carried on, and there had already been placed in the reed-press the evening before as many sheaves of wheat as would be sufficient for the women to draw from during the day.
他们到达麦仓并走进去。长结构的一端装满了玉米；中间是拉芦苇的地方，前一天晚上已经在芦苇压榨机里放了足够妇女们白天抽的麦捆。

‘Why, here’s Izz!’ said Marian.
“哎呀，伊兹来了！”玛丽安说。

Izz it was, and she came forward. She had walked all the way from her mother’s home on the previous afternoon, and, not deeming the distance so great, had been belated, arriving, however, just before the snow began, and sleeping at the alehouse. The farmer had agreed with her mother at market to take her on if she came to-day, and she had been afraid to disappoint him by delay.
是的，她走上前来。前一天下午，她从母亲家一路步行过来，虽然觉得路程并不远，但她迟到了，不过在下雪之前就到了，睡在酒馆里。农夫在市场上与她母亲商定，如果她今天来的话，就收留她，她生怕耽搁了，让他失望。

In addition to Tess, Marian, and Izz, there were two women from a neighbouring village; two Amazonian sisters, whom Tess with a start remembered as Dark Car, the Queen of Spades, and her junior, the Queen of Diamonds—those who had tried to fight with her in the midnight quarrel at Trantridge. They showed no recognition of her, and possibly had none, for they had been under the influence of liquor on that occasion, and were only temporary sojourners there as here. They did all kinds of men’s work by preference, including well-sinking, hedging, ditching, and excavating, without any sense of fatigue. Noted reed-drawers were they too, and looked round upon the other three with some superciliousness.
除了苔丝、玛丽安和伊兹之外，还有两个来自邻村的妇女。两个亚马逊姐妹，苔丝惊愕地记得她们是黑桃皇后，还有她的小妹妹，方块皇后——她们在特兰特里奇的午夜争吵中试图与她打架。他们没有表现出认出她的样子，也可能没有认出她来，因为他们当时喝了酒，只是暂时的寄居者，就像这里一样。打井、对冲、挖沟、挖掘等各种男人的活儿，她们都做着，毫无疲劳感。他们也是著名的芦苇抽屉，带着一些傲慢的目光环视着其他三个人。

Putting on their gloves, all set to work in a row in front of the press, an erection formed of two posts connected by a cross-beam, under which the sheaves to be drawn from were laid ears outward, the beam being pegged down by pins in the uprights, and lowered as the sheaves diminished.
戴上手套，所有人都准备好在压机前排成一排工作，压机是由两根柱子组成的装置，通过横梁连接，在其下方，要拉出的滑轮向外放置，横梁被用钉子固定住。销钉固定在立柱上，并随着滑轮的减少而降低。

The day hardened in colour, the light coming in at the barndoors upwards from the snow instead of downwards from the sky. The girls pulled handful after handful from the press; but by reason of the presence of the strange women, who were recounting scandals, Marian and Izz could not at first talk of old times as they wished to do. Presently they heard the muffled tread of a horse, and the farmer rode up to the barndoor. When he had dismounted he came close to Tess, and remained looking musingly at the side of her face. She had not turned at first, but his fixed attitude led her to look round, when she perceived that her employer was the native of Trantridge from whom she had taken flight on the high-road because of his allusion to her history.
天的颜色变硬了，光线从雪地向上照射到谷仓门上，而不是从天空向下照射。女孩们从媒体上摘取了一批又一批的资料。但由于那些正在讲述丑闻的陌生女人的存在，玛丽安和伊兹一开始无法像他们希望的那样谈论过去的时光。不久，他们听到了低沉的马蹄声，农夫骑马来到谷仓门口。他下马后，走到苔丝身边，若有所思地看着她的侧脸。她一开始并没有转身，但他的固定态度让她环顾四周，当她意识到她的雇主是特兰特里奇人时，她因为他提到了她的历史而逃离了他。

He waited till she had carried the drawn bundles to the pile outside, when he said, ‘So you be the young woman who took my civility in such ill part? Be drowned if I didn’t think you might be as soon as I heard of your being hired! Well, you thought you had got the better of me the first time at the inn with your fancy-man, and the second time on the road, when you bolted; but now I think I’ve got the better you.’ He concluded with a hard laugh.
等到她把拉出来的包裹搬到外面的堆上时，他才说道：“那么你就是那个对我的礼貌如此不敬的年轻女人吗？”如果我一听说你被录用了，没想到你可能会被淹死！好吧，你以为你第一次在客栈和你的情人一起打败了我，第二次是在路上，当你逃跑时；但现在我想我已经比你更好了。”他笑着总结道。

Tess, between the Amazons and the farmer, like a bird caught in a clap-net, returned no answer, continuing to pull the straw. She could read character sufficiently well to know by this time that she had nothing to fear from her employer’s gallantry; it was rather the tyranny induced by his mortification at Clare’s treatment of him. Upon the whole she preferred that sentiment in man and felt brave enough to endure it.
苔丝夹在亚马逊人和农夫之间，像一只被网捕住的小鸟，没有回答，继续拉稻草。她已经能够很好地解读性格，知道此时她不必担心雇主的殷勤。相反，他对克莱尔对待他的方式感到羞愧，从而产生了暴政。总的来说，她更喜欢男人的这种情感，并且有足够的勇气去忍受它。

‘You thought I was in love with ‘ee I suppose? Some women are such fools, to take every look as serious earnest. But there’s nothing like a winter afield for taking that nonsense out o’ young wenches’ heads; and you’ve signed and agreed till Lady-Day. Now, are you going to beg my pardon?’
“你以为我爱上了‘ee’吗？”有些女人就是这么傻，把每一个眼神都当成严肃认真的。不过，没有什么比在外地过冬天更能让年轻姑娘们消除这些胡言乱语的了。并且您已经签署并同意，直到女士节为止。现在，你要请求我原谅吗？

‘I think you ought to beg mine.’
“我想你应该求我。”

‘Very well—as you like. But we’ll see which is master here. Be they all the sheaves you’ve done to-day?’
“很好——如你所愿。但我们会看看这里哪个是主人。这些就是你今天做的所有滑轮吗？

‘Yes, sir.’
'是的先生。'

‘‘Tis a very poor show. Just see what they’ve done over there’ (pointing to the two stalwart women). ‘The rest, too, have done better than you.’
“这是一场非常糟糕的演出。看看他们在那里做了什么”（指着两个坚定的女人）。 “其他人也都比你做得更好。”

‘They’ve all practised it before, and I have not. And I thought it made no difference to you as it is task work, and we are only paid for what we do.’
‘他们以前都练过，而我没有。我认为这对你来说没有什么区别，因为这是任务性工作，我们只根据我们所做的事情获得报酬。

‘Oh, but it does. I want the barn cleared.’
'哦，但是确实如此。我想要清理谷仓。

‘I am going to work all the afternoon instead of leaving at two as the others will do.’
“我要工作整个下午，而不是像其他人一样两点下班。”

He looked sullenly at her and went away. Tess felt that she could not have come to a much worse place; but anything was better than gallantry. When two o’clock arrived the professional reed-drawers tossed off the last half-pint in their flagon, put down their hooks, tied their last sheaves, and went away. Marian and Izz would have done likewise, but on hearing that Tess meant to stay, to make up by longer hours for her lack of skill, they would not leave her. Looking out at the snow, which still fell, Marian exclaimed, ‘Now, we’ve got it all to ourselves.’ And so at last the conversation turned to their old experiences at the dairy; and, of course, the incidents of their affection for Angel Clare.
他阴沉地看了她一眼，就走开了。苔丝觉得自己来到了一个再糟糕不过的地方了。但任何事情都比殷勤更好。两点钟到了，专业的芦苇抽屉里的人扔掉了酒壶里的最后半品脱，放下了钩子，绑好了最后的捆，然后就走了。玛丽安和伊兹也会这样做，但当听说苔丝打算留下来，以延长工作时间来弥补她技能的不足时，他们就不会离开她。玛丽安看着窗外仍在下着的雪，惊呼道：“现在，我们已经拥有了一切。”最后，谈话转向了他们在奶牛场的旧经历；当然，还有他们对安吉尔·克莱尔的感情事件。

‘Izz and Marian,’ said Mrs Angel Clare, with a dignity which was extremely touching, seeing how very little of a wife she was: ‘I can’t join in talk with you now, as I used to do, about Mr Clare; you will see that I cannot; because, although he is gone away from me for the present, he is my husband.’
“伊兹和玛丽安，”安吉尔·克莱尔夫人说道，她的尊严非常令人感动，因为她是一个多么微不足道的妻子：“我现在不能像以前那样和你们一起谈论克莱尔先生了。” ;你会发现我做不到；因为，尽管他暂时离开了我，但他是我的丈夫。

Izz was by nature the sauciest and most caustic of all the four girls who had loved Clare. ‘He was a very splendid lover, no doubt,’ she said; ‘but I don’t think he is a too fond husband to go away from you so soon.’
伊兹本质上是四个爱克莱尔的女孩中最顽皮、最刻薄的一个。 “毫无疑问，他是一位非常出色的情人，”她说。 “但我不认为他是一个太爱你的丈夫，不会这么快就离开你。”

‘He had to go—he was obliged to go, to see about the land over there!’ pleaded Tess.
“他必须走——他不得不走，去看看那边的土地！”苔丝恳求道。

‘He might have tided ‘ee over the winter.’
“他可能已经度过了冬天。”

‘Ah—that’s owing to an accident—a misunderstanding; and we won’t argue it,’ Tess answered, with tearfulness in her words. ‘Perhaps there’s a good deal to be said for him! He did not go away, like some husbands, without telling me; and I can always find out where he is.’
‘啊——那是因为一场意外——一场误会；我们不会争论的。”苔丝泪流满面地回答道。 ‘也许他有很多话可说！他并没有像某些丈夫那样不告诉我就走开。我总能找到他在哪里。

After this they continued for some long time in a reverie, as they went on seizing the ears of corn, drawing out the straw, gathering it under their arms, and cutting off the ears with their bill-hooks, nothing sounding in the barn but the swish of the straw and the crunch of the hook. Then Tess suddenly flagged, and sank down upon the heap of wheat-ears at her feet.
此后，他们继续沉思了很长一段时间，他们继续抓住玉米穗，抽出稻草，把它夹在腋下，用嘴钩割下玉米穗，谷仓里除了任何声音之外，什么声音也没有。吸管的嗖嗖声和钩子的嘎吱声。苔丝突然软了下来，倒在脚边的麦穗堆上。

‘I knew you wouldn’t be able to stand it!’ cried Marian. ‘It wants harder flesh than yours for this work.’
“我就知道你受不了！”玛丽安喊道。 “为了这项工作，它需要比你更硬的肉。”

Just then the farmer entered. ‘Oh, that’s how you get on when I am away,’ he said to her.
就在这时，农夫进来了。 “哦，我不在的时候你就是这样相处的，”他对她说。

‘But it is my own loss,’ she pleaded. ‘Not yours.’
“但这是我自己的损失，”她恳求道。 '不是你的。'

‘I want it finished,’ he said doggedly, as he crossed the barn and went out at the other door.
“我希望它完成，”他固执地说，穿过谷仓，从另一扇门出去。

‘Don’t ‘ee mind him, there’s a dear,’ said Marian. ‘I’ve worked here before. Now you go and lie down there, and Izz and I will make up your number.’
“别管他，有一个亲爱的，”玛丽安说。 “我以前在这里工作过。现在你去那里躺下，我和伊兹会给你补上号码。”

‘I don’t like to let you do that. I’m taller than you, too.’
‘我不想让你这么做。我也比你高。

However, she was so overcome that she consented to lie down awhile, and reclined on a heap of pull-tails—the refuse after the straight straw had been drawn—thrown up at the further side of the barn. Her succumbing had been as largely owning to agitation at the re-opening the subject of her separation from her husband as to the hard work. She lay in a state of percipience without volition, and the rustle of the straw and the cutting of the ears by the others had the weight of bodily touches.
然而，她实在太受不了了，同意躺一会儿，斜靠在谷仓另一边扔的一堆拉尾草上——直稻草被拉过后的垃圾。她的屈服在很大程度上归因于重新公开她与丈夫分居的话题所引起的不安，以及工作的艰辛。她躺在那里，处于一种无意识的感知状态，稻草的沙沙声和其他人割耳朵的声音有身体接触的重量。

She could hear from her corner, in addition to these noises, the murmur of their voices. She felt certain that they were continuing the subject already broached, but their voices were so low that she could not catch the words. At last Tess grew more and more anxious to know what they were saying, and, persuading herself that she felt better, she got up and resumed work.
从她的角落里，除了这些噪音之外，她还能听到他们的低语声。她确信他们还在继续刚才已经提到的话题，但他们的声音太低了，她听不清他们在说什么。最后，苔丝越来越想知道他们在说什么，她说服自己感觉好多了，然后站起来继续工作。

Then Izz Huett broke down. She had walked more than a dozen miles the previous evening, had gone to bed at midnight, and had risen again at five o’clock. Marian alone, thanks to her bottle of liquor and her stoutness of build, stood the strain upon back and arms without suffering. Tess urged Izz to leave off, agreeing, as she felt better, to finish the day without her, and make equal division of the number of sheaves.
然后伊兹·休特崩溃了。前一天晚上她走了十几英里，半夜上床睡觉，五点钟又起床。玛丽安独自一人，凭借她那瓶酒和她强壮的体格，毫无痛苦地承受了背部和手臂的压力。苔丝催促伊兹停下来，并同意，当她感觉好一些时，在没有她的情况下结束这一天，并平均分配禾捆的数量。

Izz accepted the offer gratefully, and disappeared through the great door into the snowy track to her lodging. Marian, as was the case every afternoon at this time on account of the bottle, began to feel in a romantic vein.
伊兹感激地接受了这个提议，然后穿过大门消失在通往她住处的雪道上。玛丽安，就像每天下午这个时候，因为这瓶酒的缘故，开始感到浪漫起来。

‘I should not have thought it of him—never!’ she said in a dreamy tone. ‘And I loved him so! I didn’t mind his having YOU. But this about Izz is too bad!’
“我不应该想到他——不应该！”她用一种梦幻般的语气说道。 ‘我是如此爱他！我不介意他拥有你。但伊兹的这件事太糟糕了！”

Tess, in her start at the words, narrowly missed cutting off a finger with the bill-hook.
苔丝一听这话，差点没用钩子砍断一根手指。

‘Is it about my husband?’ she stammered.
“是关于我丈夫的事吗？”她结结巴巴地说。

‘Well, yes. Izz said, ‘Don’t ‘ee tell her’; but I am sure I can’t help it! It was what he wanted Izz to do. He wanted her to go off to Brazil with him.’
'嗯，是。伊兹说：“别‘告诉她’；”但我确信我无能为力！这就是他想让伊兹做的事。他希望她和他一起去巴西。

Tess’s face faded as white as the scene without, and its curves straightened. ‘And did Izz refuse to go?’ she asked.
苔丝的脸色变得和外面的景色一样苍白，曲线也变直了。 “伊兹拒绝去吗？”她问道。

‘I don’t know. Anyhow he changed his mind.’
'我不知道。不管怎样，他改变了主意。

‘Pooh—then he didn’t mean it! ‘Twas just a man’s jest!’
‘呸——那他不是故意的！ “这只是一个男人的玩笑！”

‘Yes he did; for he drove her a good-ways towards the station.’
'是他做的;因为他开车送她去了车站。

‘He didn’t take her!’
“他没有带走她！”

They pulled on in silence till Tess, without any premonitory symptoms, burst out crying.
他们默默地继续前行，直到没有任何先兆症状的苔丝突然哭了起来。

‘There!’ said Marian. ‘Now I wish I hadn’t told ‘ee!’
“那儿！”玛丽安说。 “现在我希望我没有告诉‘哎呀！’”

‘No. It is a very good thing that you have done! I have been living on in a thirtover, lackaday way, and have not seen what it may lead to! I ought to have sent him a letter oftener. He said I could not go to him, but he didn’t say I was not to write as often as I liked. I won’t dally like this any longer! I have been very wrong and neglectful in leaving everything to be done by him!’
'不。你所做的真是一件非常好的事情！我一直过着疲倦乏力的生活，却没有看到这会导致什么结果！我应该经常给他写信。他说我不能去找他，但他并没有说我不能随心所欲地写信。我不会再这样磨​​磨蹭蹭了！我把一切都交给他来完成，这是非常错误和疏忽的！”

The dim light in the barn grew dimmer, and they could see to work no longer. When Tess had reached home that evening, and had entered into the privacy of her little white-washed chamber, she began impetuously writing a letter to Clare. But falling into doubt, she could not finish it. Afterwards she took the ring from the ribbon on which she wore it next her heart, and retained it on her finger all night, as if to fortify herself in the sensation that she was really the wife of this elusive lover of hers, who could propose that Izz should go with him abroad, so shortly after he had left her. Knowing that, how could she write entreaties to him, or show that she cared for him any more?
谷仓里昏暗的灯光越来越暗，他们看不清干活了。那天晚上，苔丝回到家，走进她粉刷成白色的小房间，开始急躁地给克莱尔写信。但陷入怀疑，她无法完成。随后，她从丝带上取下戒指，把它戴在胸前，整晚都把它戴在手指上，仿佛是为了强化自己的感觉，她真的是这个难以捉摸的情人的妻子，她可以向她求婚。在他离开伊兹后不久，她就应该和他一起去国外。知道了这一点，她还怎么给他写信恳求，或者表明她再关心他了呢？

XLIV
第四十四章

By the disclosure in the barn her thoughts were led anew in the direction which they had taken more than once of late—to the distant Emminster Vicarage. It was through her husband’s parents that she had been charged to send a letter to Clare if she desired; and to write to them direct if in difficulty. But that sense of her having morally no claim upon him had always led Tess to suspend her impulse to send these notes; and to the family at the Vicarage, therefore, as to her own parents since her marriage, she was virtually non-existent. This self-effacement in both directions had been quite in consonance with her independent character of desiring nothing by way of favour or pity to which she was not entitled on a fair consideration of her deserts. She had set herself to stand or fall by her qualities, and to waive such merely technical claims upon a strange family as had been established for her by the flimsy fact of a member of that family, in a season of impulse, writing his name in a church-book beside hers.
谷仓里的真相让她的思绪重新回到了最近不止一次的方向——遥远的埃明斯特牧师住宅。正是通过她丈夫的父母，她被要求给克莱尔寄一封信，如果她愿意的话。如果遇到困难，请直接写信给他们。但苔丝觉得自己在道义上对他没有任何要求，所以她一直克制住寄这些纸条的冲动。因此，对于牧师住宅的家人来说，对于她自己的父母来说，自从她结婚以来，她几乎不存在。这种双向的自我贬低非常符合她独立的性格，她不希望得到任何恩惠或怜悯，而公平地考虑她的应得，她无权获得这些恩惠或怜悯。她已经决定自己的成败取决于她的品质，并放弃对一个陌生家庭的这种纯粹技术性的要求，因为这个家庭的一个成员在冲动的季节里把他的名字写在了她的脆弱的事实上。她的旁边有一本教堂书籍。

But now that she was stung to a fever by Izz’s tale, there was a limit to her powers of renunciation. Why had her husband not written to her? He had distinctly implied that he would at least let her know of the locality to which he had journeyed; but he had not sent a line to notify his address. Was he really indifferent? But was he ill? Was it for her to make some advance? Surely she might summon the courage of solicitude, call at the Vicarage for intelligence, and express her grief at his silence. If Angel’s father were the good man she had heard him represented to be, he would be able to enter into her heart-starved situation. Her social hardships she could conceal.
但现在她被伊兹的故事刺痛了，她放弃的力量已经有限了。为什么她的丈夫不给她写信？他明确暗示，他至少会让她知道他所到的地方；但他没有发电话通知他的地址。他真的冷漠吗？但他生病了吗？难道是为了让她垫底吗？当然，她可能会鼓起关心的勇气，向牧师住宅寻求情报，并对他的沉默表达她的悲伤。如果安吉尔的父亲是她所听到的好人，他就能进入她内心饥饿的境地。她可以掩盖她的社交困难。

To leave the farm on a week-day was not in her power; Sunday was the only possible opportunity. Flintcomb-Ash being in the middle of the cretaceous tableland over which no railway had climbed as yet, it would be necessary to walk. And the distance being fifteen miles each way she would have to allow herself a long day for the undertaking by rising early.
她无权在工作日离开农场。周日是唯一可能的机会。燧石库姆-阿什位于白垩纪高原中部，目前还没有铁路通行，因此必须步行。而且单程有十五英里，她必须早起，为这项任务留出漫长的一天。

A fortnight later, when the snow had gone, and had been followed by a hard black frost, she took advantage of the state of the roads to try the experiment. At four o’clock that Sunday morning she came downstairs and stepped out into the starlight. The weather was still favourable, the ground ringing under her feet like an anvil.
两周后，雪停了，接着又下了一层硬黑的霜，她利用路况进行了实验。那个周日早上四点，她下了楼，踏入星光之中。天气依然宜人，脚下的大地像铁砧一样轰鸣。

Marian and Izz were much interested in her excursion, knowing that the journey concerned her husband. Their lodgings were in a cottage a little further along the lane, but they came and assisted Tess in her departure, and argued that she should dress up in her very prettiest guise to captivate the hearts of her parents-in-law; though she, knowing of the austere and Calvinistic tenets of old Mr Clare, was indifferent, and even doubtful. A year had now elapsed since her sad marriage, but she had preserved sufficient draperies from the wreck of her then full wardrobe to clothe her very charmingly as a simple country girl with no pretensions to recent fashion; a soft gray woollen gown, with white crape quilling against the pink skin of her face and neck, and a black velvet jacket and hat.
玛丽安和伊兹对她的旅行很感兴趣，因为他们知道这次旅行与她的丈夫有关。他们的住处是在小巷稍远一点的一间小屋里，但他们来帮助苔丝离开，并主张她应该打扮成最漂亮的样子，以吸引她公婆的心。尽管她知道老克莱尔先生的严厉和加尔文主义信条，但她却漠不关心，甚至怀疑。距离她悲伤的婚姻已经过去一年了，但她从当时满是衣柜的残骸中保留了足够的窗帘，让她把自己打扮得非常迷人，就像一个简单的乡村女孩，没有任何新时尚的矫饰。一件柔软的灰色羊毛礼服，白色的绉纱衬托着她脸上和脖子上粉红色的皮肤，还有一件黑色天鹅绒夹克和帽子。

‘‘Tis a thousand pities your husband can’t see ‘ee now—you do look a real beauty!’ said Izz Huett, regarding Tess as she stood on the threshold between the steely starlight without and the yellow candlelight within. Izz spoke with a magnanimous abandonment of herself to the situation; she could not be—no woman with a heart bigger than a hazel-nut could be—antagonistic to Tess in her presence, the influence which she exercised over those of her own sex being of a warmth and strength quite unusual, curiously overpowering the less worthy feminine feelings of spite and rivalry.
“你丈夫现在看不到了，真可惜——你看起来确实很美！”伊兹·休特看着站在门外钢铁般的星光和屋内黄色烛光之间的门槛上的苔丝说道。伊兹说话时表现出一种宽宏大量的、对这种情况的放纵态度。她不可能——没有一个心胸比榛子更大的女人——当着苔丝的面与她对立，她对同性的影响力是一种非常不寻常的温暖和力量，奇怪的是压倒了那些次要的人。值得女性的怨恨和竞争的感觉。

With a final tug and touch here, and a slight brush there, they let her go; and she was absorbed into the pearly air of the fore-dawn. They heard her footsteps tap along the hard road as she stepped out to her full pace. Even Izz hoped she would win, and, though without any particular respect for her own virtue, felt glad that she had been prevented wronging her friend when momentarily tempted by Clare.
最后用力一拉，碰触这里，轻轻拂过那里，他们就放开了她。她沉浸在黎明的珍珠般的空气中。当她全速迈出步伐时，他们听到她的脚步声沿着坚硬的道路敲击着。就连伊兹也希望她能获胜，尽管她对自己的美德没有任何特别的尊重，但她很高兴自己没有在受到克莱尔短暂诱惑时冤枉了她的朋友。

It was a year ago, all but a day, that Clare had married Tess, and only a few days less than a year that he had been absent from her. Still, to start on a brisk walk, and on such an errand as hers, on a dry clear wintry morning, through the rarefied air of these chalky hogs’-backs, was not depressing; and there is no doubt that her dream at starting was to win the heart of her mother-in-law, tell her whole history to that lady, enlist her on her side, and so gain back the truant.
一年前，仅仅一天，克莱尔就与苔丝结婚了，而他离开她也只有不到一年的时间了。尽管如此，在一个干燥、晴朗的冬日早晨，穿过这些白垩猪背的稀薄空气，开始轻快地散步，执行像她这样的差事，并不令人沮丧;毫无疑问，她一开始的梦想就是赢得婆婆的心，把自己的全部历史告诉那位女士，拉拢她站在自己一边，从而挽回逃学的人。

In time she reached the edge of the vast escarpment below which stretched the loamy Vale of Blackmoor, now lying misty and still in the dawn. Instead of the colourless air of the uplands, the atmosphere down there was a deep blue. Instead of the great enclosures of a hundred acres in which she was now accustomed to toil, there were little fields below her of less than half-a-dozen acres, so numerous that they looked from this height like the meshes of a net. Here the landscape was whitey-brown; down there, as in Froom Valley, it was always green. Yet it was in that vale that her sorrow had taken shape, and she did not love it as formerly. Beauty to her, as to all who have felt, lay not in the thing, but in what the thing symbolized.
她及时到达了巨大悬崖的边缘，悬崖下面延伸着肥沃的布莱克莫尔山谷，现在在黎明时分，雾气蒙蒙，寂静无声。那里的空气不是高地无色的，而是深蓝色的。她现在习惯于在一百英亩的大围场里劳作，取而代之的是她下面只有不到六英亩的小田地，田地如此之多，从这个高度看起来就像一张网。这里的风景是白褐色的；那里，就像弗鲁姆谷一样，总是绿色的。然而她的悲伤就是在那个山谷里形成的，她不再像以前那样热爱它了。对她来说，就像对所有有过这种感觉的人一样，美不在于事物，而在于事物所象征的东西。

Keeping the Vale on her right, she steered steadily westward; passing above the Hintocks, crossing at right-angles the high-road from Sherton-Abbas to Casterbridge, and skirting Dogbury Hill and High-Stoy, with the dell between them called ‘The Devil’s Kitchen”. Still following the elevated way she reached Cross-in-Hand, where the stone pillar stands desolate and silent, to mark the site of a miracle, or murder, or both. Three miles further she cut across the straight and deserted Roman road called Long-Ash Lane; leaving which as soon as she reached it she dipped down a hill by a transverse lane into the small town or village of Evershead, being now about halfway over the distance. She made a halt here, and breakfasted a second time, heartily enough—not at the Sow-and-Acorn, for she avoided inns, but at a cottage by the church.
她保持山谷在她的右侧，稳步向西航行。穿过欣托克斯山脉，以直角穿过从谢尔顿-阿巴斯到卡斯特布里奇的公路，绕过多格伯里山和海斯托伊，它们之间的山谷被称为“魔鬼厨房”。继续沿着高架路，她到达了手十字，那里的石柱荒凉而寂静，标志着奇迹或谋杀或两者兼而有之的地点。再往前走了三英里，她穿过了一条笔直而荒凉的罗马道路，名叫长灰巷。她一到达目的地就离开了那里，沿着一条横向小路下了山，进入了埃弗斯黑德小镇或村庄，现在大约已经走了一半的距离。她在这里停下来，第二次吃早餐，吃得很丰盛——不是在母猪和橡子店，因为她避开了旅馆，而是在教堂旁边的一间小屋。

The second half of her journey was through a more gentle country, by way of Benvill Lane. But as the mileage lessened between her and the spot of her pilgrimage, so did Tess’s confidence decrease, and her enterprise loom out more formidably. She saw her purpose in such staring lines, and the landscape so faintly, that she was sometimes in danger of losing her way. However, about noon she paused by a gate on the edge of the basin in which Emminster and its Vicarage lay.
她旅程的后半段是途经本维尔巷，穿过一个更加温和的国家。但随着苔丝与朝圣地之间的距离越来越短，她的信心也随之下降，她的事业也变得更加艰巨。她从如此凝视的线条和如此模糊的风景中看到了自己的目的，以至于有时她有迷失方向的危险。然而，中午时分，她在盆地边缘的一扇门前停了下来，埃明斯特及其牧师住宅就位于盆地边缘。

The square tower, beneath which she knew that at that moment the Vicar and his congregation were gathered, had a severe look in her eyes. She wished that she had somehow contrived to come on a week-day. Such a good man might be prejudiced against a woman who had chosen Sunday, never realizing the necessities of her case. But it was incumbent upon her to go on now. She took off the thick boots in which she had walked thus far, put on her pretty thin ones of patent leather, and, stuffing the former into the hedge by the gatepost where she might readily find them again, descended the hill; the freshness of colour she had derived from the keen air thinning away in spite of her as she drew near the parsonage.
她知道牧师和他的会众此刻正聚集在这座方形塔楼下，她的眼神里充满了严厉。她希望自己能在工作日来。这样一个好男人可能会对一个选择周日的女人抱有偏见，却从未意识到她案件的必要性。但现在她有责任继续下去。她脱下迄今为止走路所穿的厚靴子，穿上漂亮的薄漆皮靴子，然后把靴子塞进门柱旁的树篱里，这样她就可以很容易地再次找到它们，然后下了山。尽管她不顾一切，当她走近牧师住宅时，她从强烈的空气中获得的清新色彩就逐渐消失了。

Tess hoped for some accident that might favour her, but nothing favoured her. The shrubs on the Vicarage lawn rustled uncomfortably in the frosty breeze; she could not feel by any stretch of imagination, dressed to her highest as she was, that the house was the residence of near relations; and yet nothing essential, in nature or emotion, divided her from them: in pains, pleasures, thoughts, birth, death, and after-death, they were the same.
苔丝希望发生一些对她有利的意外事件，但没有任何事情对她有利。牧师公馆草坪上的灌木在凛冽的微风中发出令人不安的沙沙声。尽管她穿着最华丽的衣服，但她无论如何也无法想象这座房子是近亲的住所。然而，在本质上或情感上，没有任何本质的东西将她与他们分开：在痛苦、快乐、思想、出生、死亡和死后，他们都是一样的。

She nerved herself by an effort, entered the swing-gate, and rang the door-bell. The thing was done; there could be no retreat. No; the thing was not done. Nobody answered to her ringing. The effort had to be risen to and made again. She rang a second time, and the agitation of the act, coupled with her weariness after the fifteen miles’ walk, led her support herself while she waited by resting her hand on her hip, and her elbow against the wall of the porch. The wind was so nipping that the ivy-leaves had become wizened and gray, each tapping incessantly upon its neighbour with a disquieting stir of her nerves. A piece of blood-stained paper, caught up from some meat-buyer’s dust-heap, beat up and down the road without the gate; too flimsy to rest, too heavy to fly away; and a few straws kept it company.
她努力鼓起勇气，走进平开门，按响了门铃。事情已经完成了；没有退路。不;事情还没有完成。没有人接听她的铃声。必须重新努力。她第二次按响了电话，这一行为的激动，加上十五英里步行后的疲倦，导致她在等待时将手放在臀部上，肘部靠在门廊的墙上。风刮得很厉害，常春藤叶子变得枯萎、变灰，每片叶子都不停地拍打着相邻的叶子，让她的神经不安。一张从买肉者的垃圾堆里捡起的沾满血迹的纸片，在大门外的路上来来回回地敲打着；太脆弱而无法休息，太重而无法飞走；几根吸管陪伴着它。

The second peal had been louder, and still nobody came. Then she walked out of the porch, opened the gate, and passed through. And though she looked dubiously at the house-front as if inclined to return, it was with a breath of relied that she closed the gate. A feeling haunted her that she might have been recognized (though how she could not tell), and orders been given not to admit her.
第二声钟声更大了，但仍然没有人来。然后她走出门廊，打开大门，走了进去。尽管她疑惑地看着房子的正面，似乎想回去，但她还是带着一丝信任关上了门。她有一种感觉，她可能被认出来了（尽管她不知道是怎么认出来的），并接到命令不让她进来。

Tess went as far as the corner. She had done all she could do; but determined not to escape present trepidation at the expense of future distress, she walked back again quite past the house, looking up at all the windows.
苔丝一直走到拐角处。她已经做了她能做的一切；但她决心不以未来的痛苦为代价来逃避眼前的恐惧，她又走回来，穿过房子，抬头看着所有的窗户。

Ah—the explanation was that they were all at church, every one. She remembered her husband saying that his father always insisted upon the household, servants included, going to morning-service, and, as a consequence, eating cold food when they came home. It was, therefore, only necessary to wait till the service was over. She would not make herself conspicuous by waiting on the spot, and she started to get past the church into the lane. But as she reached the churchyard-gate the people began pouring out, and Tess found herself in the midst of them.
啊——解释是他们所有人都在教堂。她记得她的丈夫说，他的父亲总是坚持全家人，包括仆人，去参加早间服务，因此，他们回家后必须吃冷食。因此，只需等到仪式结束即可。她为了不让自己在原地等待而显得引人注目，她开始穿过教堂进入小巷。但当她到达教堂墓地大门时，人们开始涌出来，苔丝发现自己就在他们中间。

The Emminster congregation looked at her as only a congregation of small country-townsfolk walking home at its leisure can look at a woman out of the common whom it perceives to be a stranger. She quickened her pace, and ascended the the road by which she had come, to find a retreat between its hedges till the Vicar’s family should have lunched, and it might be convenient for them to receive her. She soon distanced the churchgoers, except two youngish men, who, linked arm-in-arm, were beating up behind her at a quick step.
埃明斯特教会的会众看待她的方式就像只有一群闲暇时步行回家的小乡镇居民才能看待一个在他们看来是陌生人的不平凡的女人。她加快了脚步，顺着来时的路而上，在树篱之间寻找一处休息处，等牧师一家吃完午饭，也许他们会方便接待她。她很快就疏远了去教堂的人，除了两个年轻男子，他们手挽着手，快步在她身后殴打。

As they drew nearer she could hear their voices engaged in earnest discourse, and, with the natural quickness of a woman in her situation, did not fail to recognize in those noises the quality of her husband’s tones. The pedestrians were his two brothers. Forgetting all her plans, Tess’s one dread was lest they should overtake her now, in her disorganized condition, before she was prepared to confront them; for though she felt that they could not identify her, she instinctively dreaded their scrutiny. The more briskly they walked, the more briskly walked she. They were plainly bent upon taking a short quick stroll before going indoors to lunch or dinner, to restore warmth to limbs chilled with sitting through a long service.
当他们走近时，她能听到他们正在认真交谈的声音，而且，以她所处的处境中女人天生的敏捷性，她在这些声音中辨认出了她丈夫的语气。行人是他的两个兄弟。苔丝忘记了她所有的计划，唯一的恐惧就是，在她准备好面对他们之前，在她混乱的情况下，他们会追上她。因为虽然她觉得他们无法认出她，但她本能地害怕他们的审视。他们走得越快，她也走得越快。他们显然一心想在进屋吃午饭或晚饭之前快速散步，让因长时间坐着做礼拜而冰冷的四肢恢复温暖。

Only one person had preceded Tess up the hill—a ladylike young woman, somewhat interesting, though, perhaps, a trifle guindée and prudish. Tess had nearly overtaken her when the speed of her brothers-in-law brought them so nearly behind her back that she could hear every word of their conversation. They said nothing, however, which particularly interested her till, observing the young lady still further in front, one of them remarked, ‘There is Mercy Chant. Let us overtake her.’
只有一个人比苔丝先上山——一位淑女般的年轻女子，虽然也许有点拘谨和拘谨，但有点有趣。苔丝差点就超过了她，这时她姐夫的速度几乎把他们带到了她身后，她可以听到他们谈话的每一个字。然而，他们什么也没说，这让她特别感兴趣，直到观察更前面的那位年轻女士，其中一个人说道：“有慈悲圣歌。”让我们追上她吧。

Tess knew the name. It was the woman who had been destined for Angel’s life-companion by his and her parents, and whom he probably would have married but for her intrusive self. She would have known as much without previous information if she had waited a moment, for one of the brothers proceeded to say: ‘Ah! poor Angel, poor Angel! I never see that nice girl without more and more regretting his precipitancy in throwing himself away upon a dairymaid, or whatever she may be. It is a queer business, apparently. Whether she has joined him yet or not I don’t know; but she had not done so some months ago when I heard from him.’
苔丝知道这个名字。这个女人被他和她的父母注定为安吉尔的终身伴侣，如果不是她的侵入性自我，他可能会嫁给她。如果她稍等片刻，即使没有事先的信息，她也会知道这么多，因为其中一个兄弟接着说：“啊！可怜的天使，可怜的天使！我每次见到那个好女孩，都会愈来愈后悔他草率地爱上了一个挤奶女工，或者不管她是什么。显然，这是一件奇怪的事情。我不知道她是否已经加入了他；但几个月前我收到他的消息时，她还没有这样做。”

‘I can’t say. He never tells me anything nowadays. His ill-considered marriage seems to have completed that estrangement from me which was begun by his extraordinary opinions.’
” “我不能说。他现在从来不告诉我任何事情。他考虑不周的婚姻似乎已经完成了与我的疏远，而这种疏远是由他非凡的观点开始的。

Tess beat up the long hill still faster; but she could not outwalk them without exciting notice. At last they outsped her altogether, and passed her by. The young lady still further ahead heard their footsteps and turned. Then there was a greeting and a shaking of hands, and the three went on together.
苔丝更快地爬上了长山。但她无法在不引起令人兴奋的注意的情况下超越他们。最后，他们的速度完全超过了她，超越了她。前方的少女听到他们的脚步声，转过身来。然后互相寒暄、握手，三人就一起继续前行。

They soon reached the summit of the hill, and, evidently intending this point to be the limit of their promenade, slackened pace and turned all three aside to the gate whereat Tess had paused an hour before that time to reconnoitre the town before descending into it. During their discourse one of the clerical brothers probed the hedge carefully with his umbrella, and dragged something to light.
他们很快就到达了山顶，显然打算把这个点作为他​​们散步的终点，于是放慢了脚步，把三个人都转到了大门前，一小时前苔丝曾在那里停下来侦察一下小镇，然后才下山进去。 。在他们的谈话中，一位牧师兄弟用雨伞仔细地探查了树篱，并拖了一些东西去照明。

‘Here’s a pair of old boots,’ he said. ‘Thrown away, I suppose, by some tramp or other.’
“这是一双旧靴子，”他说。 “我想，是被某个流浪汉或其他什么人扔掉的。”

‘Some imposter who wished to come into the town barefoot, perhaps, and so excite our sympathies,’ said Miss Chant. ‘Yes, it must have been, for they are excellent walking-boots—by no means worn out. What a wicked thing to do! I’ll carry them home for some poor person.’
“也许是某个冒名顶替者希望赤脚进城，从而引起我们的同情，”钱特小姐说。 “是的，一定是这样，因为它们是极好的步行靴——决不会磨损。这是多么缺德的事啊！我会把它们带回家送给穷人。”

Cuthbert Clare, who had been the one to find them, picked them up for her with the crook of his stick; and Tess’s boots were appropriated.
卡斯伯特·克莱尔是第一个发现它们的人，他用拐杖帮她捡起了它们。苔丝的靴子被挪用了。

She, who had heard this, walked past under the screen of her woollen veil till, presently looking back, she perceived that the church party had left the gate with her boots and retreated down the hill.
她听了这话，从羊毛纱帘下走过，回头一看，发现教堂里的人已经穿着靴子离开了大门，退到了山下。

Thereupon our heroine resumed her walk. Tears, blinding tears, were running down her face. She knew that it was all sentiment, all baseless impressibility, which had caused her to read the scene as her own condemnation; nevertheless she could not get over it; she could not contravene in her own defenceless person all those untoward omens. It was impossible to think of returning to the Vicarage. Angel’s wife felt almost as if she had been hounded up that hill like a scorned thing by those—to her—superfine clerics. Innocently as the slight had been inflicted, it was somewhat unfortunate that she had encountered the sons and not the father, who, despite his narrowness, was far less starched and ironed than they, and had to the full the gift of charity. As she again thought of her dusty boots she almost pitied those habiliments for the quizzing to which they had been subjected, and felt how hopeless life was for their owner.
于是我们的女主人公又继续行走。泪水，令人眼花缭乱的泪水，从她的脸上流下来。她知道这一切都是感情用事，都是毫无根据的印象，这让她把这一幕解读为对自己的谴责；尽管如此，她还是无法克服这个念头。她无法以她自己毫无防备的身份去违背所有这些不祥的预兆。想回到牧师住宅是不可能的。安吉尔的妻子感觉自己就像被那些——对她来说——超级优秀的神职人员蔑视的东西一样，被赶上了那座山。尽管受到的轻视是无辜的，但不幸的是，她遇到的是儿子们，而不是父亲，父亲尽管心胸狭隘，却远没有他们那么刻板和熨烫，并且完全具有慈善的天赋。当她再次想起她那双沾满灰尘的靴子时，她几乎为这些装备所遭受的考验而感到怜悯，并感到它们的主人的生活是多么绝望。

‘Ah!’ she said, still sighing in pity of herself, ‘THEY didn’t know that I wore those over the roughest part of the road to save these pretty ones HE bought for me—no—they did not know it! And they didn’t think that HE chose the colour o’ my pretty frock—no—how could they? If they had known perhaps they would not have cared, for they don’t care much for him, poor thing!’
“啊！”她说道，仍然自怜自叹，“他们不知道我在最崎岖的路段穿着这些衣服是为了拯救他给我买的这些漂亮的衣服——不——他们不知道！”他们不认为他选择了我漂亮连衣裙的颜色——不——他们怎么可能呢？如果他们知道的话，也许就不会在乎了，因为他们不太关心他，可怜的家伙！

Then she grieved for the beloved man whose conventional standard of judgement had caused her all these latter sorrows; and she went her way without knowing that the greatest misfortune of her life was this feminine loss of courage at the last and critical moment through her estimating her father-in-law by his sons. Her present condition was precisely one which would have enlisted the sympathies of old Mr and Mrs Clare. Their hearts went out of them at a bound towards extreme cases, when the subtle mental troubles of the less desperate among mankind failed to win their interest or regard. In jumping at Publicans and Sinners they would forget that a word might be said for the worries of Scribes and Pharisees; and this defect or limitation might have recommended their own daughter-in-law to them at this moment as a fairly choice sort of lost person for their love.
然后她为心爱的男人感到悲伤，他的传统判断标准给她带来了所有这些后来的悲伤。她走了自己的路，却不知道她一生中最大的不幸就是在最后的关键时刻，通过儿子们对公公的评价而丧失了女性的勇气。她现在的处境正是值得老克莱尔夫妇同情的。当人类中不那么绝望的人的微妙精神困扰未能赢得他们的兴趣或尊重时，他们的心就会立即走向极端的情况。当他们攻击税吏和罪人时，他们会忘记可以对文士和法利赛人的忧虑说一句话。而这种缺陷或限制可能会在此时向他们推荐自己的儿媳妇，作为他们的爱的一个公平选择的迷失者。

Thereupon she began to plod back along the road by which she had come not altogether full of hope, but full of a conviction that a crisis in her life was approaching. No crisis, apparently, had supervened; and there was nothing left for her to do but to continue upon that starve-acre farm till she could again summon courage to face the Vicarage. She did, indeed, take sufficient interest in herself to throw up her veil on this return journey, as if to let the world see that she could at least exhibit a face such as Mercy Chant could not show. But it was done with a sorry shake of the head. ‘It is nothing—it is nothing!’ she said. ‘Nobody loves it; nobody sees it. Who cares about the looks of a castaway like me!’
于是，她开始沿着这条路艰难地往回走，她来时并不完全充满希望，但充满了她生命中的危机正在逼近的信念。显然，并没有发生任何危机。她别无选择，只能继续在那片饥饿的农场里生活，直到她再次鼓起勇气面对牧师住宅。她确实对自己有足够的兴趣，在这次回程中揭开了面纱，仿佛要让世人看到她至少可以展现出慈悲·颂特无法展现的面孔。但这是在抱歉地摇摇头之后完成的。 “没什么——没什么！”她说。 “没有人喜欢它；没有人看到它。谁在乎像我这样的漂​​流者的外表呢！

Her journey back was rather a meander than a march. It had no sprightliness, no purpose; only a tendency. Along the tedious length of Benvill Lane she began to grow tired, and she leant upon gates and paused by milestones.
她回来的旅程与其说是行军，不如说是蜿蜒曲折。它没有活力，没有目的；只是一种倾向。沿着本维尔巷那段乏味的路，她开始感到疲倦，她靠在大门上，在里程碑处停下来。

She did not enter any house till, at the seventh or eighth mile, she descended the steep long hill below which lay the village or townlet of Evershead, where in the morning she had breakfasted with such contrasting expectations. The cottage by the church, in which she again sat down, was almost the first at that end of the village, and while the woman fetched her some milk from the pantry, Tess, looking down the street, perceived that the place seemed quite deserted.
她没有进入任何房子，直到第七或第八英里时，她下了陡峭的长山，下面是埃弗斯黑德的村庄或小镇，早上她怀着截然不同的期望吃过早餐。她再次坐下的教堂旁的小屋，几乎是村子那头的第一间小屋，当那个女人从食品储藏室给她拿一些牛奶时，苔丝朝街道望去，发现这个地方似乎很荒凉。 。

‘The people are gone to afternoon service, I suppose?’ she said.
“我想人们都去参加下午的礼拜了吧？”她说。

‘No, my dear,’ said the old woman. ‘‘Tis too soon for that; the bells hain’t strook out yet. They be all gone to hear the preaching in yonder barn. A ranter preaches there between the services—an excellent, fiery, Christian man, they say. But, Lord, I don’t go to hear’n! What comes in the regular way over the pulpit is hot enough for I.’
“不，亲爱的，”老妇人说。 “现在还为时过早；钟声还没有敲响。他们都去那边谷仓听布道了。礼拜间隙，一名咆哮者在那里布道——他们说，他是一位优秀、热情的基督徒。但是，主啊，我不会去听！讲坛上常见的东西对我来说已经足够热了。

Tess soon went onward into the village, her footsteps echoing against the houses as though it were a place of the dead. Nearing the central part, her echoes were intruded on by other sounds; and seeing the barn not far off the road, she guessed these to be the utterances of the preacher.
苔丝很快就进了村子，她的脚步声在房屋间回响，仿佛那里是死人的地方。接近中央的时候，她的回声就被其他声音干扰了。看到路边不远处的谷仓，她猜这是传教士的话。

His voice became so distinct in the still clear air that she could soon catch his sentences, though she was on the closed side of the barn. The sermon, as might be expected, was of the extremest antinomian type; on justification by faith, as expounded in the theology of St Paul. This fixed idea of the rhapsodist was delivered with animated enthusiasm, in a manner entirely declamatory, for he had plainly no skill as a dialectician. Although Tess had not heard the beginning of the address, she learnt what the text had been from its constant iteration—
他的声音在依然清澈的空气中变得如此清晰，尽管她是在谷仓封闭的一侧，但她很快就能听清他的句子。不出所料，这次布道是最极端的反律法主义类型。正如圣保罗神学中所阐述的那样，因信称义。狂想曲家的这种固定观念是以一种充满激情的热情，以一种完全雄辩的方式表达出来的，因为他显然没有辩证法家的技巧。虽然苔丝没有听到这句话的开头，但她从不断的重复中得知了正文的内容——

“O foolish galatians, who hath bewitched you, that ye
“愚蠢的加拉太人啊，谁迷惑了你们，以致你们

should not obey the truth, before whose eyes Jesus Christ
不应该在耶稣基督的眼前服从真理

hath been evidently set forth, crucified among you?’
已经明显地在你们中间被钉在十字架上了吗？

Tess was all the more interested, as she stood listening behind, in finding that the preacher’s doctrine was a vehement form of the view of Angel’s father, and her interest intensified when the speaker began to detail his own spiritual experiences of how he had come by those views. He had, he said, been the greatest of sinners. He had scoffed; he had wantonly associated with the reckless and the lewd. But a day of awakening had come, and, in a human sense, it had been brought about mainly by the influence of a certain clergyman, whom he had at first grossly insulted; but whose parting words had sunk into his heart, and had remained there, till by the grace of Heaven they had worked this change in him, and made him what they saw him.
苔丝站在后面听，发现传教士的教义是安吉尔父亲观点的强烈形式，她的兴趣更加浓厚，当演讲者开始详细讲述他自己的精神经历以及他如何成长时，她的兴趣更加浓厚。那些观点。他说，他是最大的罪人。他对此嗤之以鼻；他曾肆意与鲁莽和淫荡的人交往。但觉醒的一天已经到来，从人类的意义上来说，这主要是由于某位牧师的影响所带来的，他一开始曾严重侮辱过这位牧师。但他的临别赠言已经深深地印在他的心里，一直留在那里，直到上天的恩典使他发生了这种变化，使他变成了他们所看到的样子。

But more startling to Tess than the doctrine had been the voice, which, impossible as it seemed, was precisely that of Alec d’Urberville. Her face fixed in painful suspense, she came round to the front of the barn, and passed before it. The low winter sun beamed directly upon the great double-doored entrance on this side; one of the doors being open, so that the rays stretched far in over the threshing-floor to the preacher and his audience, all snugly sheltered from the northern breeze. The listeners were entirely villagers, among them being the man whom she had seen carrying the red paint-pot on a former memorable occasion. But her attention was given to the central figure, who stood upon some sacks of corn, facing the people and the door. The three o’clock sun shone full upon him, and the strange enervating conviction that her seducer confronted her, which had been gaining ground in Tess ever since she had heard his words distinctly, was at last established as a fact indeed.
但比这个学说更让苔丝吃惊的是那个声音，尽管看起来不可能，但那声音正是亚历克·德伯维尔的声音。她的脸露出痛苦的悬念，她绕到谷仓前面，从它前面经过。冬日的低照直接照在这边巨大的双门入口上。其中一扇门开着，光线从打谷场的上方延伸到牧师和他的听众身上，他们都被舒适地遮挡住了北风。听众全是村民，其中就有她在一次难忘的场合看到的那个拿着红色油漆罐的男人。但她的注意力集中在中心人物身上，他站在几袋玉米上，面向人群和门。三点钟的阳光照在他身上，自从苔丝清楚地听到他的话以来，她心里就一直有一种奇怪的、令人沮丧的信念，那就是她的诱惑者正在面对她，这种信念最终被证实为事实。

END OF PHASE THE FIFTH
第五阶段结束

Phase the Sixth: The Convert
第六阶段：皈依

XLV

Till this moment she had never seen or heard from d’Urberville since her departure from Trantridge.
自从她离开特兰特里奇以来，直到此刻，她还没有见过德伯维尔，也没有听到过他的消息。

The rencounter came at a heavy moment, one of all moments calculated to permit its impact with the least emotional shock. But such was unreasoning memory that, though he stood there openly and palpably a converted man, who was sorrowing for his past irregularities, a fear overcame her, paralyzing her movement so that she neither retreated nor advanced.
这次相遇发生在一个沉重的时刻，这是所有精心设计的时刻之一，以使其影响力最小化。但这是一种不合理的记忆，尽管他站在那儿，明显地是一个悔改的人，为自己过去的不道德行为而悲伤，但恐惧却战胜了她，麻痹了她的行动，使她既不后退也不前进。

To think of what emanated from that countenance when she saw it last, and to behold it now! ... There was the same handsome unpleasantness of mien, but now he wore neatly trimmed, old-fashioned whiskers, the sable moustache having disappeared; and his dress was half-clerical, a modification which had changed his expression sufficiently to abstract the dandyism from his features, and to hinder for a second her belief in his identity.
想想她上次看到那张脸时的表情，现在再看看它！ ……他的面容依然英俊但令人不快，但现在他留着修剪整齐的老式胡须，黑貂胡子已经消失了；他的着装是半教士式的，这种改变足以改变他的表情，足以从他的容貌中抽象出花花公子的气质，并暂时阻碍了她对他身份的信念。

To Tess’s sense there was, just at first, a ghastly bizarrerie, a grim incongruity, in the march of these solemn words of Scripture out of such a mouth. This too familiar intonation, less than four years earlier, had brought to her ears expressions of such divergent purpose that her heart became quite sick at the irony of the contrast.
在苔丝看来，从这样的嘴里说出这些庄严的圣经话语，一开始就充满了可怕的怪异和严酷的不协调。不到四年前，这种过于熟悉的语调给她带来了如此不同目的的表达，以至于她的心因这种反差而感到非常恶心。

It was less a reform than a transfiguration. The former curves of sensuousness were now modulated to lines of devotional passion. The lip-shapes that had meant seductiveness were now made to express supplication; the glow on the cheek that yesterday could be translated as riotousness was evangelized to-day into the splendour of pious rhetoric; animalism had become fanaticism; Paganism, Paulinism; the bold rolling eye that had flashed upon her form in the old time with such mastery now beamed with the rude energy of a theolatry that was almost ferocious. Those black angularities which his face had used to put on when his wishes were thwarted now did duty in picturing the incorrigible backslider who would insist upon turning again to his wallowing in the mire.
与其说这是一次改革，不如说这是一次变形。以前的感性曲线现在被调整为虔诚激情的线条。原本意味着诱惑的唇形，现在变成了表达恳求的唇形。昨天脸上的光彩还可以被翻译为狂欢，今天却变成了虔诚的言辞的辉煌。兽性主义已经变成了狂热主义；异教、保林主义；昔日那双大胆的转动的眼睛在她的身材上闪现出如此熟练的光芒，现在闪烁着一种近乎凶猛的理论的粗鲁能量。当他的愿望遭到挫败时，他脸上的那些黑色棱角现在确实有责任描绘出那个不可救药的后退者，他会坚持再次在泥潭中打滚。

The lineaments, as such, seemed to complain. They had been diverted from their hereditary connotation to signify impressions for which Nature did not intend them. Strange that their very elevation was a misapplication, that to raise seemed to falsify.
轮廓本身似乎在抱怨。它们已经脱离了其遗传内涵，转而表示大自然无意的印象。奇怪的是，他们的抬高本身就是一种误用，抬高似乎是伪造的。

Yet could it be so? She would admit the ungenerous sentiment no longer. D’Urberville was not the first wicked man who had turned away from his wickedness to save his soul alive, and why should she deem it unnatural in him? It was but the usage of thought which had been jarred in her at hearing good new words in bad old notes. The greater the sinner, the greater the saint; it was not necessary to dive far into Christian history to discover that.
但事情可能是这样吗？她不会再承认这种不慷慨的情绪了。德伯维尔并不是第一个为了拯救自己的灵魂而放弃邪恶的恶人，她为什么会认为他这样做是不自然的呢？当她在糟糕的旧音符中听到好听的新词时，这只是她的思维使用方式感到不舒服。罪人越伟大，圣人就越伟大；无需深入研究基督教历史就能发现这一点。

Such impressions as these moved her vaguely, and without strict definiteness. As soon as the nerveless pause of her surprise would allow her to stir, her impulse was to pass on out of his sight. He had obviously not discerned her yet in her position against the sun.
这些印象让她模糊地感动，而且没有严格的确定性。一旦她因惊讶而毫无勇气地停下来，一动起来，她就会冲动地想离开他的视线。显然，他还没有认出她在阳光下的位置。

But the moment that she moved again he recognized her. The effect upon her old lover was electric, far stronger than the effect of his presence upon her. His fire, the tumultuous ring of his eloquence, seemed to go out of him. His lip struggled and trembled under the words that lay upon it; but deliver them it could not as long as she faced him. His eyes, after their first glance upon her face, hung confusedly in every other direction but hers, but came back in a desperate leap every few seconds. This paralysis lasted, however, but a short time; for Tess’s energies returned with the atrophy of his, and she walked as fast as she was able past the barn and onward.
但当她再次动弹的那一刻，他就认出了她。这对她的旧情人的影响是强烈的，比他的出现对她的影响要强烈得多。他的热情，他雄辩的喧嚣，似乎都从他身上消失了。他的嘴唇因上面的话而挣扎、颤抖。但只要她面对他，就无法传递它们。他的眼睛在第一眼看到她的脸后，就迷茫地朝除了她的方向以外的其他方向看去，但每隔几秒钟就会绝望地跳回来。然而，这种瘫痪只持续了很短的时间。因为苔丝的精力随着他的萎缩而恢复了，她尽可能快地走过谷仓，继续前进。

As soon as she could reflect, it appalled her, this change in their relative platforms. He who had wrought her undoing was now on the side of the Spirit, while she remained unregenerate. And, as in the legend, it had resulted that her Cyprian image had suddenly appeared upon his altar, whereby the fire of the priest had been well nigh extinguished.
当她回想起来时，他们相对平台的这种变​​化让她感到震惊。那个毁掉她的人现在站在圣灵一边，而她却仍未重生。而且，正如传说中的那样，结果是她的西普里安形象突然出现在他的祭坛上，牧师的火焰几乎被扑灭了。

She went on without turning her head. Her back seemed to be endowed with a sensitiveness to ocular beams—even her clothing—so alive was she to a fancied gaze which might be resting upon her from the outside of that barn. All the way along to this point her heart had been heavy with an inactive sorrow; now there was a change in the quality of its trouble. That hunger for affection too long withheld was for the time displaced by an almost physical sense of an implacable past which still engirdled her. It intensified her consciousness of error to a practical despair; the break of continuity between her earlier and present existence, which she had hoped for, had not, after all, taken place. Bygones would never be complete bygones till she was a bygone herself.
她头也不回地继续往前走。她的后背似乎对光线——甚至是她的衣服——都非常敏感，她对可能从谷仓外面落在她身上的幻想目光如此活跃。一直以来，她的心都被一种无为的悲伤所沉重。现在麻烦的性质发生了变化。那种对感情的渴望被压抑得太久，暂时被一种几乎是身体上的、难以平复的过去的感觉所取代，而这种感觉仍然包围着她。这让她更加意识到自己的错误，甚至陷入了绝望。她所希望的她以前和现在的存在之间的连续性的断裂毕竟没有发生。除非她自己成为过去，否则过去的事永远不会完全过去。

Thus absorbed, she recrossed the northern part of Long-Ash Lane at right angles, and presently saw before her the road ascending whitely to the upland along whose margin the remainder of her journey lay. Its dry pale surface stretched severely onward, unbroken by a single figure, vehicle, or mark, save some occasional brown horse-droppings which dotted its cold aridity here and there. While slowly breasting this ascent Tess became conscious of footsteps behind her, and turning she saw approaching that well-known form—so strangely accoutred as the Methodist—the one personage in all the world she wished not to encounter alone on this side of the grave.
就这样，她全神贯注地重新以直角穿过了长灰巷的北部，不久就看到了她面前的道路呈白色上升到高地，她剩下的旅程就沿着高地的边缘而行。它干燥苍白的表面严重地向前延伸，没有任何一个人影、车辆或标记，除了偶尔有一些棕色的马粪点缀在寒冷干燥的土地上。当苔丝慢慢地攀登时，她意识到身后有脚步声，转身时，她看到那个众所周知的身影正在接近——与卫理公会教徒一样奇怪的装扮——世界上她不希望在坟墓的这一边单独遇到的人物。 。

There was not much time, however, for thought or elusion, and she yielded as calmly as she could to the necessity of letting him overtake her. She saw that he was excited, less by the speed of his walk than by the feelings within him.
然而，没有太多时间思考或逃避，她尽可能平静地屈服于让他超越她的必要性。她看到他很兴奋，与其说是因为他走路的速度，不如说是因为他内心的感受。

‘Tess!’ he said.
“苔丝！”他说。

She slackened speed without looking round.
她放慢了速度，没有回头看。

‘Tess!’ he repeated. ‘It is I—Alec d’Urberville.’
“苔丝！”他重复道。 “是我——亚历克·德伯维尔。”

She then looked back at him, and he came up.
然后她回头看了他一眼，他就走了过来。

‘I see it is,’ she answered coldly.
“我明白了，”她冷冷地回答。

‘Well—is that all? Yet I deserve no more! Of course,’ he added, with a slight laugh, ‘there is something of the ridiculous to your eyes in seeing me like this. But—I must put up with that. ... I heard you had gone away; nobody knew where. Tess, you wonder why I have followed you?’
‘嗯——就这些了吗？但我不配再这样了！当然，”他微微一笑，补充道，“在你看来，我这个样子有些可笑。但是——我必须忍受。 ……我听说你走了；没有人知道在哪里。苔丝，你想知道我为什么跟着你吗？

‘I do, rather; and I would that you had not, with all my heart!’
“我确实如此；我真心希望你没有这么做！

‘Yes—you may well say it,’ he returned grimly, as they moved onward together, she with unwilling tread. ‘But don’t mistake me; I beg this because you may have been led to do so in noticing—if you did notice it—how your sudden appearance unnerved me down there. It was but a momentary faltering; and considering what you have been to me, it was natural enough. But will helped me through it—though perhaps you think me a humbug for saying it—and immediately afterwards I felt that of all persons in the world whom it was my duty and desire to save from the wrath to come—sneer if you like—the woman whom I had so grievously wronged was that person. I have come with that sole purpose in view—nothing more.’
“是的——你可以这么说，”他冷酷地回答道，他们一起向前走，而她则不情愿地迈着脚步。 “但请不要误会我；我之所以这么请求，是因为你可能是在注意到——如果你确实注意到了——你的突然出现让我在那里感到不安时才这么做的。这只是一时的摇摇欲坠；考虑到你对我的影响，这是很自然的。但威尔帮助我度过了难关——尽管也许你认为我这么说是个骗子——之后我立即感到，在世界上所有的人中，我有责任和愿望将他们从即将到来的愤怒中拯救出来——如果你愿意，可以嘲笑——那个被我冤枉的女人就是那个人。我来这里的唯一目的就是——仅此而已。”

There was the smallest vein of scorn in her words of rejoinder: ‘Have you saved yourself? Charity begins at home, they say.’
她反驳的话语中带着一丝轻蔑：‘你救了自己吗？他们说，慈善始于家庭。

‘I have done nothing!’ said he indifferently. ‘Heaven, as I have been telling my hearers, has done all. No amount of contempt that you can pour upon me, Tess, will equal what I have poured upon myself—the old Adam of my former years! Well, it is a strange story; believe it or not; but I can tell you the means by which my conversion was brought about, and I hope you will be interested enough at least to listen. Have you ever heard the name of the parson of Emminster—you must have done do?—old Mr Clare; one of the most earnest of his school; one of the few intense men left in the Church; not so intense as the extreme wing of Christian believers with which I have thrown in my lot, but quite an exception among the Established clergy, the younger of whom are gradually attenuating the true doctrines by their sophistries, till they are but the shadow of what they were. I only differ from him on the question of Church and State—the interpretation of the text, ‘Come out from among them and be ye separate, saith the Lord’—that’s all. He is one who, I firmly believe, has been the humble means of saving more souls in this country than any other man you can name. You have heard of him?’
“我什么也没做！”他冷漠地说。 ‘正如我一直告诉听众的那样，天堂已经完成了一切。苔丝，你对我的蔑视再多，也抵不过我对自己——我早年的老亚当——的蔑视！嗯，这是一个奇怪的故事；信不信由你;但我可以告诉你我转变的方式，我希望你至少有足够的兴趣来听。你听说过埃明斯特牧师的名字吗——你一定听说过吧？——老克莱尔先生；他的学校里最认真的人之一；教会中仅存的少数坚强的人之一；不像我所加入的基督教信徒的极端派那么强烈，但在国教神职人员中却是一个例外，他们中的年轻人正在通过他们的诡辩逐渐削弱真正的教义，直到他们只是什么的影子。他们是。我与他的不同之处仅在于教会与国家的问题上——对文本的解释，“主说，从他们中间出来，与他们分开”——仅此而已。我坚信，他是这个国家拯救更多灵魂的卑微手段，比任何你能说出名字的人都要多。你听说过他吗？

‘I have,’ she said.
“我有，”她说。

‘He came to Trantridge two or three years ago to preach on behalf of some missionary society; and I, wretched fellow that I was, insulted him when, in his disinterestedness, he tried to reason with me and show me the way. He did not resent my conduct, he simply said that some day I should receive the first-fruits of the Spirit—that those who came to scoff sometimes remained to pray. There was a strange magic in his words. They sank into my mind. But the loss of my mother hit me most; and by degrees I was brought to see daylight. Since then my one desire has been to hand on the true view to others, and that is what I was trying to do to-day; though it is only lately that I have preached hereabout. The first months of my ministry have been spent in the North of England among strangers, where I preferred to make my earliest clumsy attempts, so as to acquire courage before undergoing that severest of all tests of one’s sincerity, addressing those who have known one, and have been one’s companions in the days of darkness. If you could only know, Tess, the pleasure of having a good slap at yourself, I am sure—‘
“两三年前，他来到特兰特里奇，代表某个传教团体传教；当他无私地试图跟我讲道理并给我指路时，我这个可怜的家伙就侮辱了他。他并不怨恨我的行为，他只是说有一天我会领受圣灵初熟的果子——那些前来嘲笑的人有时会留下来祈祷。他的话里有一种奇怪的魔力。他们深深地印在我的脑海里。但失去母亲对我打击最大。渐渐地，我看到了阳光。从那时起，我的一个愿望就是将正见传授给他人，这就是我今天所做的努力；尽管我只是最近才在这方面宣讲。我事工的头几个月是在英格兰北部的陌生人中间度过的，在那里我宁愿做出最早的笨拙尝试，以便在接受对一个人的诚意最严格的考验之前获得勇气，向那些认识的人讲话，并在黑暗的日子里成为人们的同伴。苔丝，如果你能知道扇自己一巴掌是多么快乐，我相信——”

‘Don’t go on with it!’ she cried passionately, as she turned away from him to a stile by the wayside, on which she bent herself. ‘I can’t believe in such sudden things! I feel indignant with you for talking to me like this, when you know—when you know what harm you’ve done me! You, and those like you, take your fill of pleasure on earth by making the life of such as me bitter and black with sorrow; and then it is a fine thing, when you have had enough of that, to think of securing your pleasure in heaven by becoming converted! Out upon such—I don’t believe in you—I hate it!’
“不要再这样下去了！”她激动地喊道，同时转身走到路边的一个栅栏上，弯下腰。 ‘我简直不敢相信这么突然的事情！我对你这样跟我说话感到愤怒，当你知道——当你知道你对我造成了多大的伤害！你和那些像你一样的人，在地球上享受快乐，却让像我这样的人的生活充满悲伤和痛苦；当你受够了这些之后，想到通过皈依来确保你在天堂的快乐，这是一件好事！就这样——我不相信你——我讨厌它！

‘Tess,’ he insisted; ‘don’t speak so! It came to me like a jolly new idea! And you don’t believe me? What don’t you believe?’
“苔丝，”他坚持道。 ‘别这么说！这对我来说就像一个令人愉快的新想法！你不相信我吗？你不相信什么？

‘Your conversion. Your scheme of religion.’
‘你的转变。你的宗教计划。

‘Why?’
'为什么？'

She dropped her voice. ‘Because a better man than you does not believe in such.’
她压低了声音。 “因为比你更好的人不会相信这样的事。”

‘What a woman’s reason! Who is this better man?’
‘这是多么女人的理由啊！这个更好的人是谁？

‘I cannot tell you.’
'我不能告诉你。'

‘Well,’ he declared, a resentment beneath his words seeming ready to spring out at a moment’s notice, ‘God forbid that I should say I am a good man—and you know I don’t say any such thing. I am new to goodness, truly; but newcomers see furthest sometimes.’
“好吧，”他宣称，言语中的怨恨似乎随时会爆发出来，“上帝禁止我说我是一个好人——你知道我不会说任何这样的话。确实，我对善良还很陌生；但有时新人看得最远。”

‘Yes,’ she replied sadly. ‘But I cannot believe in your conversion to a new spirit. Such flashes as you feel, Alec, I fear don’t last!’
“是的，”她悲伤地回答。 “但我无法相信你会转变为新的精神。亚历克，你所感受到的这种闪光恐怕不会持续太久！

Thus speaking she turned from the stile over which she had been leaning, and faced him; whereupon his eyes, falling casually upon the familiar countenance and form, remained contemplating her. The inferior man was quiet in him now; but it was surely not extracted, nor even entirely subdued.
说着，她从原来靠着的栏杆上转过身来，面对着他。于是，他的目光漫不经心地落在那张熟悉的面容和身材上，仍然注视着她。现在，他内心的低等人已经安静下来了。但它肯定没有被提取出来，甚至也没有被完全抑制。

‘Don’t look at me like that!’ he said abruptly.
“别这样看着我！”他突然说道。

Tess, who had been quite unconscious of her action and mien, instantly withdrew the large dark gaze of her eyes, stammering with a flush, ‘I beg your pardon!’ And there was revived in her the wretched sentiment which had often come to her before, that in inhabiting the fleshly tabernacle with which Nature had endowed her she was somehow doing wrong.
苔丝完全没有意识到自己的举动和神情，立刻收回了那双乌黑的大眼睛，满脸通红，结结巴巴地说：“请原谅！”她身上又恢复了以前常有的悲惨情绪。以前，她居住在大自然赋予她的肉身圣殿中，不知何故做错了。

‘No, no! Don’t beg my pardon. But since you wear a veil to hide your good looks, why don’t you keep it down?’
'不，不！不要乞求我的原谅。但既然你戴面纱是为了隐藏你的美貌，为什么不把它低调一点呢？

She pulled down the veil, saying hastily, ‘It was mostly to keep off the wind.’
她拉下面纱，急忙道：“主要是为了挡风。”

‘It may seem harsh of me to dictate like this,’ he went on; ‘but it is better that I should not look too often on you. It might be dangerous.’
“这样发号施令似乎对我来说很苛刻，”他继续说道。 ‘但我最好不要经常看你。这可能很危险。

‘Ssh!’ said Tess.
“嘘！”苔丝说。

‘Well, women’s faces have had too much power over me already for me not to fear them! An evangelist has nothing to do with such as they; and it reminds me of the old times that I would forget!’
“嗯，女人的脸对我来说已经有太多的力量了，我不能再害怕她们了！”传福音的人与他们无关。它让我想起了我会忘记的旧时光！

After this their conversation dwindled to a casual remark now and then as they rambled onward, Tess inwardly wondering how far he was going with her, and not liking to send him back by positive mandate. Frequently when they came to a gate or stile they found painted thereon in red or blue letters some text of Scripture, and she asked him if he knew who had been at the pains to blazon these announcements. He told her that the man was employed by himself and others who were working with him in that district, to paint these reminders that no means might be left untried which might move the hearts of a wicked generation.
此后，他们的谈话逐渐减少为时不时的闲聊，他们继续前行，苔丝内心想知道他和她到底要走多远，而且不喜欢以明确的命令把他送回来。通常，当他们来到大门或栅栏时，他们会发现上面用红色或蓝色的字母画着一些经文，她问他是否知道是谁煞费苦心地张贴了这些公告。他告诉她，这个人受雇于他自己和在那个地区与他一起工作的其他人，画这些提醒人们，任何可能感动邪恶一代人的心的方法都不能不尝试。

At length the road touched the spot called ‘Cross-in-Hand.’ Of all spots on the bleached and desolate upland this was the most forlorn. It was so far removed from the charm which is sought in landscape by artists and view-lovers as to reach a new kind of beauty, a negative beauty of tragic tone. The place took its name from a stone pillar which stood there, a strange rude monolith, from a stratum unknown in any local quarry, on which was roughly carved a human hand. Differing accounts were given of its history and purport. Some authorities stated that a devotional cross had once formed the complete erection thereon, of which the present relic was but the stump; others that the stone as it stood was entire, and that it had been fixed there to mark a boundary or place of meeting. Anyhow, whatever the origin of the relic, there was and is something sinister, or solemn, according to mood, in the scene amid which it stands; something tending to impress the most phlegmatic passer-by.
最后，道路到达了一个叫做“交叉手”的地方。在这片白化、荒凉的高地上的所有地方中，这是最荒凉的地方。它与艺术家和观赏者所追求的风景魅力相差甚远，而达到了一种新的美，一种悲剧基调的消极美。这个地方得名于矗立在那里的一根石柱，这是一块奇怪的粗制巨石，来自当地采石场未知的地层，上面粗略地刻着一个人的手。关于它的历史和主旨，人们有不同的说法。一些权威人士称，一个虔诚的十字架曾经在其上完整地竖立起来，现在的遗迹只是其树桩；另一些人则认为，这块石头是完整的，它被固定在那里是为了标记边界或聚会地点。无论如何，无论这件遗物的起源如何，它所处的场景过去和现在都存在着某种险恶或庄严的东西，这取决于心情；往往会给最冷漠的路人留下深刻印象的东西。

‘I think I must leave you now,’ he remarked, as they drew near to this spot. ‘I have to preach at Abbot’s-Cernel at six this evening, and my way lies across to the right from here. And you upset me somewhat too, Tessy—I cannot, will not, say why. I must go away and get strength. ... How is it that you speak so fluently now? Who has taught you such good English?’
“我想我现在必须离开你了，”当他们接近这个地方时，他说道。 “今天晚上六点我必须在方丈中心讲道，我的路就在这儿的右边。你也让我有些不安，泰西——我不能也不会说出为什么。我必须离开并获得力量。 ……你现在说话怎么这么流利了？谁教你这么好的英语？

‘I have learnt things in my troubles,’ she said evasively.
“我从麻烦中学到了东西，”她闪烁其词地说。

‘What troubles have you had?’
“你遇到过什么麻烦吗？”

She told him of the first one—the only one that related to him.
她告诉他第一个——唯一一个与他有关的。

D’Urberville was struck mute. ‘I knew nothing of this till now!’ he next murmured. ‘Why didn’t you write to me when you felt your trouble coming on?’
德伯维尔哑口无言。 “到目前为止我对此一无所知！”他接着低声说道。 “当你感到麻烦来临时，为什么不写信给我？”

She did not reply; and he broke the silence by adding: ‘Well—you will see me again.’
她没有回答；他打破了沉默，补充道：“好吧——你会再见到我的。”

‘No,’ she answered. ‘Do not again come near me!’
“不，”她回答。 “不要再靠近我！”

‘I will think. But before we part come here.’ He stepped up to the pillar. ‘This was once a Holy Cross. Relics are not in my creed; but I fear you at moments—far more than you need fear me at present; and to lessen my fear, put your hand upon that stone hand, and swear that you will never tempt me—by your charms or ways.’
'我会想。但在我们分手之前，先来这里吧。”他走到柱子前。 “这曾经是一个圣十字。我的信条里没有遗物；但我有时会害怕你——远远超过你现在需要害怕我的程度；为了减轻我的恐惧，请将你的手放在那只石头手上，并发誓你永远不会用你的魅力或方式来诱惑我。

‘Good God—how can you ask what is so unnecessary! All that is furthest from my thought!’
‘天啊——你怎么能问这么不必要的事情呢！这一切都与我的想法相去甚远！

‘Yes—but swear it.’
“是的——但是发誓。”

Tess, half frightened, gave way to his importunity; placed her hand upon the stone and swore.
苔丝有些害怕，屈服于他的恳求。她把手放在石头上并发誓。

‘I am sorry you are not a believer,’ he continued; ‘that some unbeliever should have got hold of you and unsettled your mind. But no more now. At home at least I can pray for you; and I will; and who knows what may not happen? I’m off. Goodbye!’
“我很抱歉你不是信徒，”他继续说道。 ‘某个不信者应该抓住你并扰乱你的思想。但现在不再了。至少在家里我可以为你祈祷；我会的;谁知道什么可能不会发生呢？我走了。再见！'

He turned to a hunting-gate in the hedge and, without letting his eyes again rest upon her, leapt over and struck out across the down in the direction of Abbot’s-Cernel. As he walked his pace showed perturbation, and by-and-by, as if instigated by a former thought, he drew from his pocket a small book, between the leaves of which was folded a letter, worn and soiled, as from much re-reading. D’Urberville opened the letter. It was dated several months before this time, and was signed by Parson Clare.
他转向树篱中的一扇狩猎门，眼睛没有再停留在她身上，而是跳了过去，穿过低地，朝修道院院长的方向走去。他走路时步伐显得慌乱，渐渐地，仿佛受到了先前的想法的煽动，他从口袋里掏出一本小书，书页之间夹着一封信，又旧又脏，好像是从很长的时间里写下来的。 -阅读。德伯维尔打开了信。它的日期是在此之前几个月，并由克莱尔牧师签署。

The letter began by expressing the writer’s unfeigned joy at d’Urberville’s conversion, and thanked him for his kindness in communicating with the parson on the subject. It expressed Mr Clare’s warm assurance of forgiveness for d’Urberville’s former conduct and his interest in the young man’s plans for the future. He, Mr Clare, would much have liked to see d’Urberville in the Church to whose ministry he had devoted so many years of his own life, and would have helped him to enter a theological college to that end; but since his correspondent had possibly not cared to do this on account of the delay it would have entailed, he was not the man to insist upon its paramount importance. Every man must work as he could best work, and in the method towards which he felt impelled by the Spirit.
这封信首先表达了作者对德伯维尔皈依的由衷的喜悦，并感谢他在这个问题上与牧师沟通的善意。它表达了克莱尔先生对德伯维尔以前的行为的热情宽恕，以及他对这个年轻人未来计划的兴趣。他，克莱尔先生，非常希望看到德伯维尔加入教会，他为教会的事工奉献了自己多年的生命，并会为此帮助他进入一所神学院。但由于他的通讯员可能因为会造成延误而不愿意这样做，所以他不是坚持这一点至高无上的人。每个人都必须尽其所能地工作，并以他感受到圣灵推动的方式工作。

D’Urberville read and re-read this letter, and seemed to quiz himself cynically. He also read some passages from memoranda as he walked till his face assumed a calm, and apparently the image of Tess no longer troubled his mind.
德伯维尔读了又读这封信，似乎在愤世嫉俗地自问。他一边走一边读着备忘录中的一些段落，直到他的脸色变得平静，显然苔丝的形象不再困扰他的脑海。

She meanwhile had kept along the edge of the hill by which lay her nearest way home. Within the distance of a mile she met a solitary shepherd.
与此同时，她一直沿着山边走，那里是她最近回家的路。不到一英里的距离，她遇到了一个孤独的牧羊人。

‘What is the meaning of that old stone I have passed?’ she asked of him. ‘Was it ever a Holy Cross?’
“我经过的那块老石头有什么意义？”她问他。 “它曾经是一个圣十字吗？”

‘Cross—no; ‘twer not a cross! ‘Tis a thing of ill-omen, Miss. It was put up in wuld times by the relations of a malefactor who was tortured there by nailing his hand to a post and afterwards hung. The bones lie underneath. They say he sold his soul to the devil, and that he walks at times.’
‘十字——不； ‘不是十字架！ “这是一个不祥之物，小姐。这是一个恶棍在荒世时的亲戚们竖起的，他在那里受到了酷刑，把他的手钉在柱子上，然后被绞死。骨头就在下面。他们说他把灵魂出卖给了魔鬼，而且他有时会走路。

She felt the petite mort at this unexpectedly gruesome information, and left the solitary man behind her. It was dusk when she drew near to Flintcomb-Ash, and in the lane at the entrance to the hamlet she approached a girl and her lover without their observing her. They were talking no secrets, and the clear unconcerned voice of the young woman, in response to the warmer accents of the man, spread into the chilly air as the one soothing thing within the dusky horizon, full of a stagnant obscurity upon which nothing else intruded. For a moment the voices cheered the heart of Tess, till she reasoned that this interview had its origin, on one side or the other, in the same attraction which had been the prelude to her own tribulation. When she came close, the girl turned serenely and recognized her, the young man walking off in embarrassment. The woman was Izz Huett, whose interest in Tess’s excursion immediately superseded her own proceedings. Tess did not explain very clearly its results, and Izz, who was a girl of tact, began to speak of her own little affair, a phase of which Tess had just witnessed.
听到这个出人意料的可怕信息，她感到心如死灰，把那个孤独的男人留在了身后。当她接近弗林特库姆·阿什时，已是黄昏时分，在村庄入口处的小巷里，她走近一个女孩和她的情人，而她们却没有注意到她。他们没有秘密地谈论着，年轻女子清晰而漠不关心的声音，回应着男人温暖的口音，蔓延到寒冷的空气中，就像昏暗的地平线上唯一令人舒缓的东西，充满了一种停滞的模糊，没有其他东西。闯入了。有一瞬间，这些声音让苔丝的心欢欣鼓舞，直到她推断这次采访的起源，无论从哪一方面，都与她自己的苦难前奏的吸引力相同。当她走近时，女孩平静地转过身，认出了她，而年轻人则尴尬地走开了。这个女人就是伊兹·休特（Izz Huett），她对苔丝旅行的兴趣立即取代了她自己的兴趣。苔丝并没有很清楚地解释其结果，而机智的伊兹则开始讲述她自己的小事，苔丝刚刚目睹了这一过程。

‘He is Amby Seedling, the chap who used to sometimes come and help at Talbothays,’ she explained indifferently. ‘He actually inquired and found out that I had come here, and has followed me. He says he’s been in love wi’ me these two years. But I’ve hardly answered him.’
“他是安比·西德林（Amby Seedling），以前有时会来塔尔博塞斯帮忙的小伙子，”她冷漠地解释道。 ‘他居然打探过，得知我来过这里，而且还跟着我。他说他这两年一直爱着我。但我几乎没有回答他。

XLVI
四十六

Several days had passed since her futile journey, and Tess was afield. The dry winter wind still blew, but a screen of thatched hurdles erected in the eye of the blast kept its force away from her. On the sheltered side was a turnip-slicing machine, whose bright blue hue of new paint seemed almost vocal in the otherwise subdued scene. Opposite its front was a long mound or ‘grave’, in which the roots had been preserved since early winter. Tess was standing at the uncovered end, chopping off with a bill-hook the fibres and earth from each root, and throwing it after the operation into the slicer. A man was turning the handle of the machine, and from its trough came the newly-cut swedes, the fresh smell of whose yellow chips was accompanied by the sounds of the snuffling wind, the smart swish of the slicing-blades, and the choppings of the hook in Tess’s leather-gloved hand.
距离这次徒劳无功的旅程已经过去了好几天，苔丝还在外地。干燥的冬风仍然吹着，但风眼里竖起的茅草栅栏屏障挡住了她的力量。受庇护的一侧是一台萝卜切片机，其新油漆的亮蓝色调在原本柔和的场景中几乎显得很响亮。它的正面对面是一个长长的土堆或“坟墓”，自初冬以来，树根就一直保存在其中。苔丝站在没有覆盖的一端，用钩子把每根根部的纤维和泥土砍下来，然后把它扔进切片机里。一个男人正在转动机器的手柄，刚切好的瑞典薯片从槽里出来，黄色薯片的新鲜气味伴随着呼呼的风声、切片刀片的聪明的嗖嗖声和切菜的声音。苔丝戴着皮手套的手上的钩子。

The wide acreage of blank agricultural brownness, apparent where the swedes had been pulled, was beginning to be striped in wales of darker brown, gradually broadening to ribands. Along the edge of each of these something crept upon ten legs, moving without haste and without rest up and down the whole length of the field; it was two horses and a man, the plough going between them, turning up the cleared ground for a spring sowing.
瑞典人被拖走的地方，大片空白的农业棕色土地开始出现深棕色的条纹，逐渐扩大为罗纹。沿着每条路的边缘，有东西用十条腿爬行，在整个田野上不紧不慢地走来走去。那是两匹马和一个人，犁在他们之间穿行，翻开清理过的土地，准备春播。

For hours nothing relieved the joyless monotony of things. Then, far beyond the ploughing-teams, a black speck was seen. It had come from the corner of a fence, where there was a gap, and its tendency was up the incline, towards the swede-cutters. From the proportions of a mere point it advanced to the shape of a ninepin, and was soon perceived to be a man in black, arriving from the direction of Flintcomb-Ash. The man at the slicer, having nothing else to do with his eyes, continually observed the comer, but Tess, who was occupied, did not perceive him till her companion directed her attention to his approach.
几个小时以来，没有任何事情可以缓解单调乏味的气氛。然后，在犁地队的远处，看到了一个黑点。它来自栅栏的一角，那里有一个缺口，它的趋势是沿着斜坡向上，朝向瑞典切割机。它从一个点的比例发展到九柱球的形状，很快就被认为是一个黑衣人，从弗林特科姆·阿什的方向而来。切片机旁的那个人，眼睛无事可做，不断地观察着角落，但正忙着的苔丝没有注意到他，直到她的同伴将注意力集中到他的走近上。

It was not her hard taskmaster, Farmer Groby; it was one in a semi-clerical costume, who now represented what had once been the free-and-easy Alec d’Urberville. Not being hot at his preaching there was less enthusiasm about him now, and the presence of the grinder seemed to embarrass him. A pale distress was already on Tess’s face, and she pulled her curtained hood further over it.
这不是她严厉的监工农夫格罗比；而是她的父亲。那是一个穿着半教士服装的人，现在代表的是曾经自由自在的亚历克·德伯维尔。他不再热衷于他的讲道，现在对他的热情也减少了，磨床的出现似乎让他感到尴尬。苔丝的脸上已经出现了苍白的痛苦，她把带帘子的兜帽拉得更深了。

D’Urberville came up and said quietly—
德伯维尔走过来，轻声说道——

‘I want to speak to you, Tess.’
“我想和你谈谈，苔丝。”

‘You have refused my last request, not to come near me!’ said she.
“你拒绝了我最后的请求，不要靠近我！”她说。

‘Yes, but I have a good reason.’
“是的，但我有充分的理由。”

‘Well, tell it.’
“好吧，说吧。”

‘It is more serious than you may think.’
“这比你想象的更严重。”

He glanced round to see if he were overheard. They were at some distance from the man who turned the slicer, and the movement of the machine, too, sufficiently prevented Alec’s words reaching other ears. D’Urberville placed himself so as to screen Tess from the labourer, turning his back to the latter.
他环顾四周，看看他的话是否被人听见。他们距离转动切片机的人还有一段距离，而机器的移动也足以阻止亚历克的话传到其他人的耳朵里。德伯维尔转身背对着工人，把苔丝与工人隔开。

‘It is this,’ he continued, with capricious compunction. ‘In thinking of your soul and mine when we last met, I neglected to inquire as to your worldly condition. You were well dressed, and I did not think of it. But I see now that it is hard—harder than it used to be when I—knew you—harder than you deserve. Perhaps a good deal of it is owning to me!’
“就是这个，”他带着反复无常的悔恨继续说道。 “当我们上次见面时，我想起了你我的灵魂，却忽略了询问你们的世俗状况。你穿得很好，我没想到。但我现在发现这很难——比我认识你的时候更难——比你应得的更难。也许其中很大一部分都属于我！

She did not answer, and he watched her inquiringly, as, with bent head, her face completely screened by the hood, she resumed her trimming of the swedes. By going on with her work she felt better able to keep him outside her emotions.
她没有回答，他询问地看着她，她低着头，脸完全被兜帽遮住，继续修剪瑞典人的头发。通过继续工作，她感觉能够更好地让他远离自己的情绪。

‘Tess,’ he added, with a sigh of discontent,—‘yours was the very worst case I ever was concerned in! I had no idea of what had resulted till you told me. Scamp that I was to foul that innocent life! The whole blame was mine—the whole unconventional business of our time at Trantridge. You, too, the real blood of which I am but the base imitation, what a blind young thing you were as to possibilities! I say in all earnestness that it is a shame for parents to bring up their girls in such dangerous ignorance of the gins and nets that the wicked may set for them, whether their motive be a good one or the result of simple indifference.’
“苔丝，”他不满地叹了口气，补充道，“你的案子是我处理过的最糟糕的案子！”在你告诉我之前我不知道发生了什么。恶棍说我玷污了这个无辜的生命！全部责任都在我身上——我们在特兰特里奇时代的所有非传统事务。你也一样，我只是你的真血脉的仿制品，你对可能性是多么盲目的年轻人啊！我郑重地说，父母在对恶人可能为她们设置的杜松子酒和渔网如此危险的无知的情况下抚养自己的女儿是一种耻辱，无论他们的动机是好的还是纯粹的冷漠。

Tess still did no more than listen, throwing down one globular root and taking up another with automatic regularity, the pensive contour of the mere fieldwoman alone marking her.
苔丝仍然只是听着，自动有规律地扔下一根球状根，又拿起另一根，那是一个田野女工独自沉思的轮廓。

‘But it is not that I came to say,’ d’Urberville went on. ‘My circumstances are these. I have lost my mother since you were at Trantridge, and the place is my own. But I intend to sell it, and devote myself to missionary work in Africa. A devil of a poor hand I shall make at the trade, no doubt. However, what I want to ask you is, will you put it in my power to do my duty—to make the only reparation I can make for the trick played you: that is, will you be my wife, and go with me? ... I have already obtained this precious document. It was my old mother’s dying wish.’
“但这并不是我来要说的，”德伯维尔继续说道。 ‘我的情况是这样的。自从你来到特兰特里奇之后，我就失去了我的母亲，而这个地方就是我自己的了。但我打算卖掉它，投身于非洲的传教工作。毫无疑问，我在这行生意上将是一个可怜的人。然而，我想问你的是，你愿意让我尽我的职责吗——为我对你的恶作剧做出唯一的补偿：那就是，你愿意做我的妻子，跟我走吗？ ……这份珍贵的文件我已经拿到了。这是我老母亲的遗愿。

He drew a piece of parchment from his pocket, with a slight fumbling of embarrassment.
他从口袋里掏出一张羊皮纸，有点尴尬地摸索着。

‘What is it?’ said she.
“这是什么？”她说。

‘A marriage licence.’
“结婚证。”

‘O no, sir—no!’ she said quickly, starting back.
“哦，不，先生——不！”她迅速说道，同时向后退了一步。

‘You will not? Why is that?’
'你不会？这是为什么？'

And as he asked the question a disappointment which was not entirely the disappointment of thwarted duty crossed d’Urberville’s face. It was unmistakably a symptom that something of his old passion for her had been revived; duty and desire ran hand-in-hand.
当他问这个问题的时候，德伯维尔的脸上掠过一种失望，这种失望并不完全是因为职责受阻而感到的失望。毫无疑问，这是他对她旧日热情的某种征兆。责任和欲望齐头并进。

‘Surely,’ he began again, in more impetuous tones, and then looked round at the labourer who turned the slicer.
“当然，”他又开始说道，语气更加急躁，然后转身看着转动切片机的工人。

Tess, too, felt that the argument could not be ended there. Informing the man that a gentleman had come to see her, with whom she wished to walk a little way, she moved off with d’Urberville across the zebra-striped field. When they reached the first newly-ploughed section he held out his hand to help her over it; but she stepped forward on the summits of the earth-rolls as if she did not see him.
苔丝也觉得争论不能就此结束。她告诉那个男人，有一位绅士来看望她，她想和他一起走一段路，然后她和德伯维尔一起穿过斑马条纹的田野。当他们到达第一个新耕地时，他伸出手来帮助她翻过去。但她在土卷顶上向前迈步，仿佛没有看到他。

‘You will not marry me, Tess, and make me a self-respecting man?’ he repeated, as soon as they were over the furrows.
“苔丝，你不愿意嫁给我，让我成为一个有自尊的男人吗？”他们一跨过犁沟，他就重复道。

‘I cannot.’
'我不能。'

‘But why?’
'但为什么？'

‘You know I have no affection for you.’
“你知道我对你没有感情。”

‘But you would get to feel that in time, perhaps—as soon as you really could forgive me?’
“但你也许会及时感受到这一点——一旦你真的能够原谅我？”

‘Never!’
'绝不！'

‘Why so positive?’
“为什么这么积极？”

‘I love somebody else.’
“我爱别人。”

The words seemed to astonish him.
这句话似乎让他吃了一惊。

‘You do?’ he cried. ‘Somebody else? But has not a sense of what is morally right and proper any weight with you?’
“你知道吗？”他喊道。 '其他人？但你难道不知道什么是道德上正确和适当的吗？

‘No, no, no—don’t say that!’
“不，不，不——别这么说！”

‘Anyhow, then, your love for this other man may be only a passing feeling which you will overcome—‘
“无论如何，你对另一个男人的爱可能只是一种短暂的感觉，你会克服它——”

‘No—no.’
'不，不。'

‘Yes, yes! Why not?’
'是的是的！为什么不？'

‘I cannot tell you.’
'我不能告诉你。'

‘You must in honour!’
“你必须尊重！”

‘Well then ... I have married him.’
“那么……我就嫁给了他。”

‘Ah!’ he exclaimed; and he stopped dead and gazed at her.
“啊！”他惊呼道。他停了下来，凝视着她。

‘I did not wish to tell—I did not mean to!’ she pleaded. ‘It is a secret here, or at any rate but dimly known. So will you, PLEASE will you, keep from questioning me? You must remember that we are now strangers.’
“我不想告诉——我不是故意的！”她恳求道。 “这是这里的一个秘密，或者至少是一个隐秘的秘密。那么，请你不要再质疑我好吗？你必须记住，我们现在是陌生人了。”

‘Strangers—are we? Strangers!’
“我们是陌生人吗？陌生人！’

For a moment a flash of his old irony marked his face; but he determinedly chastened it down.
有一瞬间，他的脸上闪过一丝古老的讽刺意味。但他坚决将其抑制住。

‘Is that man your husband?’ he asked mechanically, denoting by a sign the labourer who turned the machine.
“那个人是你的丈夫吗？”他机械地问道，并用一个标志来表示转动机器的工人。

‘That man!’ she said proudly. ‘I should think not!’
“那个男人！”她自豪地说。 “我想不会！”

‘Who, then?’
“那么谁呢？”

‘Do not ask what I do not wish to tell!’ she begged, and flashed her appeal to him from her upturned face and lash-shadowed eyes.
“不要问我不想告诉的事情！”她恳求道，并从她仰起的脸和浓密的睫毛中闪现出对他的恳求。

D’Urberville was disturbed.
德伯维尔感到不安。

‘But I only asked for your sake!’ he retorted hotly. ‘Angels of heaven!—God forgive me for such an expression—I came here, I swear, as I thought for your good. Tess—don’t look at me so—I cannot stand your looks! There never were such eyes, surely, before Christianity or since! There—I won’t lose my head; I dare not. I own that the sight of you had waked up my love for you, which, I believed, was extinguished with all such feelings. But I thought that our marriage might be a sanctification for us both. ‘The unbelieving husband is sanctified by the wife, and the unbelieving wife is sanctified by the husband,’ I said to myself. But my plan is dashed from me; and I must bear the disappointment!’
“但我只是为了你才要求的！”他激烈地反驳道。 “天上的天使们！——上帝原谅我这样的表达——我发誓，我来到这里，是为了你们好。苔丝——别这样看着我——我受不了你的眼神！当然，在基督教之前或之后从未有过这样的眼睛！在那里——我不会失去理智；我不敢。我承认，看到你就唤醒了我对你的爱，我相信，这种爱已经随着所有这些感情而消失了。但我认为我们的婚姻对我们俩来说可能都是神圣的。 “不信的丈夫因妻子而成圣，不信的妻子因丈夫而成圣，”我对自己说。但我的计划落空了；我必须承受失望！

He moodily reflected with his eyes on the ground.
他眼睛盯着地面，心情郁闷地思考着。

‘Married. Married! ... Well, that being so,’ he added, quite calmly, tearing the licence slowly into halves and putting them in his pocket; ‘that being prevented, I should like to do some good to you and your husband, whoever he may be. There are many questions that I am tempted to ask, but I will not do so, of course, in opposition to your wishes. Though, if I could know your husband, I might more easily benefit him and you. Is he on this farm?’
'已婚。已婚！ ……好吧，既然如此，”他相当平静地补充道，慢慢地将许可证撕成两半，放进口袋里； “既然被阻止了，我想为你和你的丈夫做点好事，无论他是谁。我有很多问题想问，但我当然不会违背你们的意愿。不过，如果我能了解你的丈夫，我可能会更容易使他和你受益。他在这个农场吗？

‘No,’ she murmured. ‘He is far away.’
“不，”她低声说。 “他离得很远。”

‘Far away? From YOU? What sort of husband can he be?’
'离这很远？来自你？他能成为什么样的丈夫？

‘O, do not speak against him! It was through you! He found out—‘
‘哦，不要反对他！是通过你！他发现——‘

‘Ah, is it so! ... That’s sad, Tess!’
‘啊，是这样吗！ ......这太悲伤了，苔丝！

‘Yes.’
'是的。'

‘But to stay away from you—to leave you to work like this!’
“但是要远离你——让你这样工作！”

‘He does not leave me to work!’ she cried, springing to the defence of the absent one with all her fervour. ‘He don’t know it! It is by my own arrangement.’
“他不让我干活！”她喊道，并用全部热情跳起来为缺席的人辩护。 ‘他不知道！这是我自己安排的。”

‘Then, does he write?’
“那么，他写字吗？”

‘I—I cannot tell you. There are things which are private to ourselves.’
“我——我不能告诉你。有些事情是我们自己私人的。

‘Of course that means that he does not. You are a deserted wife, my fair Tess—‘
‘当然，这意味着他不这样做。你是一个被遗弃的妻子，我美丽的苔丝——”

In an impulse he turned suddenly to take her hand; the buff-glove was on it, and he seized only the rough leather fingers which did not express the life or shape of those within.
他一时冲动，突然转身握住她的手。上面戴着浅黄色手套，他只抓住了粗糙的皮革手指，这些手指并不能表现出里面的生物的生命或形状。

‘You must not—you must not!’ she cried fearfully, slipping her hand from the glove as from a pocket, and leaving it in his grasp. ‘O, will you go away—for the sake of me and my husband—go, in the name of your own Christianity!’
“你不可以——你不可以！”她恐惧地喊道，把手从手套里抽出来，就像从口袋里抽出来一样，把它留在他的手里。 “哦，为了我和我丈夫的缘故，你愿意走开吗？以你自己基督教的名义，走开吧！”

‘Yes, yes; I will,’ he said abruptly, and thrusting the glove back to her he turned to leave. Facing round, however, he said, ‘Tess, as God is my judge, I meant no humbug in taking your hand!’
'是的是的;我会的。”他突然说道，然后把手套推回给她，然后转身离开。然而，他转过身来，说道：“苔丝，上帝是我的法官，我握住你的手并不是有意欺骗！”

A pattering of hoofs on the soil of the field, which they had not noticed in their preoccupation, ceased close behind them; and a voice reached her ear:
田野上的马蹄声在他们全神贯注的时候没有注意到，在他们身后停止了。一个声音传到了她的耳边：

‘What the devil are you doing away from your work at this time o’ day?’
“这个时候你工作之余到底在做什么？”

Farmer Groby had espied the two figures from the distance, and had inquisitively ridden across, to learn what was their business in his field.
农夫格罗比从远处看到了两个人影，好奇地骑马过去，想了解他们在他的田地里做什么。

‘Don’t speak like that to her!’ said d’Urberville, his face blackening with something that was not Christianity.
“别这样对她说话！”德伯维尔说，他的脸因某种非基督教的东西而变黑。

‘Indeed, Mister! And what mid Methodist pa’sons have to do with she?’
‘确实如此，先生！卫理公会中间的信徒和她有什么关系？

‘Who is the fellow?’ asked d’Urberville, turning to Tess.
“这家伙是谁？”德伯维尔转向苔丝问道。

She went close up to him.
她靠近他。

‘Go—I do beg you!’ she said.
“走吧——我求你了！”她说。

‘What! And leave you to that tyrant? I can see in his face what a churl he is.’
'什么！然后把你留给那个暴君？我从他的脸上看出他是个多么粗鲁的人。

‘He won’t hurt me. HE’S not in love with me. I can leave at Lady-Day.’
‘他不会伤害我。他不爱我。我可以在女士节那天离开。

‘Well, I have no right but to obey, I suppose. But—well, goodbye!’
“好吧，我想我除了服从之外没有权利。但是——好吧，再见！

Her defender, whom she dreaded more than her assailant, having reluctantly disappeared, the farmer continued his reprimand, which Tess took with the greatest coolness, that sort of attack being independent of sex. To have as a master this man of stone, who would have cuffed her if he had dared, was almost a relief after her former experiences. She silently walked back towards the summit of the field that was the scene of her labour, so absorbed in the interview which had just taken place that she was hardly aware that the nose of Groby’s horse almost touched her shoulders.
她的保护者，她比袭击者更害怕的农夫不情愿地消失了，农夫继续他的斥责，苔丝以极大的冷静对待，这种攻击与性别无关。有了这个石人当主人，如果他敢的话，他就会给她戴上手铐，这让她在经历了之前的经历之后几乎松了口气。她默默地走回田野的山顶，那是她的劳动现场，她全神贯注于刚刚进行的采访，几乎没有意识到格罗比的马的鼻子几乎碰到了她的肩膀。

‘If so be you make an agreement to work for me till Lady-Day, I’ll see that you carry it out,’ he growled. ‘‘Od rot the women—now ‘tis one thing, and then ‘tis another. But I’ll put up with it no longer!’
“如果你同意为我工作直到情人节，我会确保你执行它，”他咆哮道。 “女人会腐烂——现在是一回事，然后又是另一回事。但我不会再忍受了！

Knowing very well that he did not harass the other women of the farm as he harassed her out of spite for the flooring he had once received, she did for one moment picture what might have been the result if she had been free to accept the offer just made her of being the monied Alec’s wife. It would have lifted her completely out of subjection, not only to her present oppressive employer, but to a whole world who seemed to despise her. ‘But no, no!’ she said breathlessly; ‘I could not have married him now! He is so unpleasant to me.’
她很清楚，他骚扰农场里的其他妇女并不是因为他曾经收到的地板而骚扰她，她有那么一刻想象，如果她可以自由地接受这个提议，可能会出现什么结果。刚刚让她成为了有钱人亚历克的妻子。这将使她完全摆脱屈服，不仅是对她目前的压迫性雇主，而且是对整个似乎鄙视她的世界。 “但是不，不！”她气喘吁吁地说。 “我现在不可能嫁给他！他对我来说太不愉快了。

That very night she began an appealing letter to Clare, concealing from him her hardships, and assuring him of her undying affection. Any one who had been in a position to read between the lines would have seen that at the back of her great love was some monstrous fear—almost a desperation—as to some secret contingencies which were not disclosed. But again she did not finish her effusion; he had asked Izz to go with him, and perhaps he did not care for her at all. She put the letter in her box, and wondered if it would ever reach Angel’s hands.
那天晚上，她开始给克莱尔写了一封恳求信，向他隐瞒了她的艰辛，并向他保证了她永恒的爱。任何一个有能力读懂字里行间的人都会发现，在她伟大的爱情背后，隐藏着某种可怕的恐惧——几乎是绝望——对一些未透露的秘密意外事件。但她又没有把话吐完。他邀请伊兹和他一起去，也许他根本不关心她。她把信放进盒子里，想知道它是否会到达安吉尔的手中。

After this her daily tasks were gone through heavily enough, and brought on the day which was of great import to agriculturists—the day of the Candlemas Fair. It was at this fair that new engagements were entered into for the twelve months following the ensuing Lady-Day, and those of the farming population who thought of changing their places duly attended at the county-town where the fair was held. Nearly all the labourers on Flintcomb-Ash farm intended flight, and early in the morning there was a general exodus in the direction of the town, which lay at a distance of from ten to a dozen miles over hilly country. Though Tess also meant to leave at the quarter-day, she was one of the few who did not go to the fair, having a vaguely-shaped hope that something would happen to render another outdoor engagement unnecessary.
此后，她的日常任务完成得足够繁重，并在对农学家来说非常重要的一天——圣烛节那天完成。正是在这个集市上，在随后的女士节之后的十二个月里，新的约定得以签订，而那些想要改变自己位置的农民也正式来到了集市举办的县城。弗林特科姆-阿什农场的几乎所有工人都打算逃走，清晨，人们普遍向城镇方向逃亡，城镇距离丘陵地带十到十几英里。尽管苔丝也打算在季度日离开，但她是少数没有去集市的人之一，她隐隐约约地希望会发生什么事情，使另一次户外活动变得不必要。

It was a peaceful February day, of wonderful softness for the time, and one would almost have thought that winter was over. She had hardly finished her dinner when d’Urberville’s figure darkened the window of the cottage wherein she was a lodger, which she had all to herself to-day.
那是二月里一个宁静的日子，当时的天气非常柔和，人们几乎以为冬天已经结束了。她刚吃完晚饭，德伯维尔的身影就遮住了她寄宿的小屋的窗户，而今天，她独享了这座小屋。

Tess jumped up, but her visitor had knocked at the door, and she could hardly in reason run away. D’Urberville’s knock, his walk up to the door, had some indescribable quality of difference from his air when she last saw him. They seemed to be acts of which the doer was ashamed. She thought that she would not open the door; but, as there was no sense in that either, she arose, and having lifted the latch stepped back quickly. He came in, saw her, and flung himself down into a chair before speaking.
苔丝跳了起来，但她的客人已经敲门了，她根本无法逃跑。德伯维尔的敲门声，他走向门口的动作，与她上次见到他时的神态有着难以形容的不同。这些行为似乎让行为者感到羞耻。她以为自己不会开门，没想到却是这样。但是，因为这也毫无意义，她站了起来，打开门闩后迅速向后退了一步。他走进来，看到了她，然后一屁股坐到了椅子上，然后才开口说话。

‘Tess—I couldn’t help it!’ he began desperately, as he wiped his heated face, which had also a superimposed flush of excitement. ‘I felt that I must call at least to ask how you are. I assure you I had not been thinking of you at all till I saw you that Sunday; now I cannot get rid of your image, try how I may! It is hard that a good woman should do harm to a bad man; yet so it is. If you would only pray for me, Tess!’
“苔丝——我没办法！”他绝望地说道，同时擦了擦发烫的脸，脸上还夹杂着兴奋的红晕。 “我觉得我至少必须打电话问问你怎么样。我向你保证，在那个周日见到你之前，我根本就没在想你。现在我无法摆脱你的形象，试试我能做的吧！好女人很难伤害坏男人；但事实确实如此。如果你能为我祈祷就好了，苔丝！

The suppressed discontent of his manner was almost pitiable, and yet Tess did not pity him.
他的态度中压抑着的不满几乎是可怜的，但苔丝并不怜悯他。

‘How can I pray for you,’ she said, ‘when I am forbidden to believe that the great Power who moves the world would alter His plans on my account?’
“当我被禁止相信推动世界的伟大力量会因为我而改变他的计划时，我该如何为你祈祷呢？”她说。

‘You really think that?’
“你真的这么认为吗？”

‘Yes. I have been cured of the presumption of thinking otherwise.’
'是的。我已经摆脱了不这样想的假设。

‘Cured? By whom?’
‘治愈了？通过谁？'

‘By my husband, if I must tell.’
“如果我必须告诉的话，是我丈夫的。”

‘Ah—your husband—your husband! How strange it seems! I remember you hinted something of the sort the other day. What do you really believe in these matters, Tess?’ he asked. ‘You seem to have no religion—perhaps owing to me.’
‘啊——你的丈夫——你的丈夫！看起来多么奇怪啊！我记得前几天你暗示过类似的事情。 “苔丝，你对这些事情到底相信什么？”他问道。 “你似乎没有宗教信仰——也许是因为我。”

‘But I have. Though I don’t believe in anything supernatural.’
'但我有。虽然我不相信任何超自然的东西。

D’Urberville looked at her with misgiving.
德伯维尔疑惑地看着她。

‘Then do you think that the line I take is all wrong?’
“那你认为我采取的路线是错误的吗？”

‘A good deal of it.’
“很多。”

‘H’m—and yet I’ve felt so sure about it,’ he said uneasily.
“嗯——但我对此非常确定，”他不安地说。

‘I believe in the SPIRIT of the Sermon on the Mount, and so did my dear husband... But I don’t believe—‘
“我相信登山宝训的精神，我亲爱的丈夫也是如此……但我不相信——”

Here she gave her negations.
在这里她给出了否定。

‘The fact is,’ said d’Urberville drily, ‘whatever your dear husband believed you accept, and whatever he rejected you reject, without the least inquiry or reasoning on your own part. That’s just like you women. Your mind is enslaved to his.’
“事实是，”德伯维尔冷冷地说，“无论你亲爱的丈夫相信什么，你都接受，无论他拒绝什么，你都拒绝，而你自己却没有丝毫询问或推理。这就像你们女人一样。你的思想被他的思想所奴役。

‘Ah, because he knew everything!’ said she, with a triumphant simplicity of faith in Angel Clare that the most perfect man could hardly have deserved, much less her husband.
“啊，因为他什么都知道！”她说道，带着对安吉尔·克莱尔的一种胜利般的简单信念，这是最完美的男人都难以配得上的，更不用说她的丈夫了。

‘Yes, but you should not take negative opinions wholesale from another person like that. A pretty fellow he must be to teach you such scepticism!’
“是的，但你不应该像这样从另一个人那里接受大量的负面意见。他一定是个漂亮的小伙子，竟然教你这样的怀疑态度！

‘He never forced my judgement! He would never argue on the subject with me! But I looked at it in this way; what he believed, after inquiring deep into doctrines, was much more likely to be right than what I might believe, who hadn’t looked into doctrines at all.’
‘他从来没有强迫我做出判断！他永远不会和我争论这个问题！但我是这样看的；在深入探究教义之后，他所相信的东西比我根本没有研究过教义的人所相信的更有可能是正确的。

‘What used he to say? He must have said something?’
‘他说什么？他一定说了些什么吧？

She reflected; and with her acute memory for the letter of Angel Clare’s remarks, even when she did not comprehend their spirit, she recalled a merciless polemical syllogism that she had heard him use when, as it occasionally happened, he indulged in a species of thinking aloud with her at his side. In delivering it she gave also Clare’s accent and manner with reverential faithfulness.
她反思道：她对安吉尔·克莱尔的言论有着敏锐的记忆，即使她不理解他们的精神，她也记得她曾听到他使用过一种无情的辩论三段论，当时他偶尔会沉迷于一种大声思考的情况。她在他身边。在讲话时，她还带着虔诚的忠诚表现出了克莱尔的口音和举止。

‘Say that again,’ asked d’Urberville, who had listened with the greatest attention.
“再说一遍，”德伯维尔问道，他全神贯注地听着。

She repeated the argument, and d’Urberville thoughtfully murmured the words after her.
她重复了一遍这个论点，德伯维尔在她身后若有所思地低声说道。

‘Anything else?’ he presently asked.
“还有什么事吗？”他立即问道。

‘He said at another time something like this”; and she gave another, which might possibly have been paralleled in many a work of the pedigree ranging from the Dictionnaire Philosophique to Huxley’s Essays.
“他在另一次说过这样的话”；她还给出了另一本，这可能在从《哲学词典》到赫胥黎的《随笔集》等许多谱系著作中都有相似之处。

‘Ah—ha! How do you remember them?’
‘啊——哈！你怎么记得他们？

‘I wanted to believe what he believed, though he didn’t wish me to; and I managed to coax him to tell me a few of his thoughts. I can’t say I quite understand that one; but I know it is right.’
“我想相信他所相信的，尽管他不希望我这么做；”我设法哄他告诉我一些他的想法。我不能说我完全理解这一点；但我知道这是对的。”

‘H’m. Fancy your being able to teach me what you don’t know yourself!’
‘嗯。希望你能够教我你自己都不知道的东西！

He fell into thought.
他陷入了沉思。

‘And so I threw in my spiritual lot with his,’ she resumed. ‘I didn’t wish it to be different. What’s good enough for him is good enough for me.’
“所以我把我的精神命运和他的命运放在了一起，”她继续说道。 “我不希望事情有所不同。对他来说足够好的对我来说也足够好。

‘Does he know that you are as big an infidel as he?’
“他知道你和他一样都是异教徒吗？”

‘No—I never told him—if I am an infidel.’
“不——我从来没有告诉过他——如果我是异教徒。”

‘Well—you are better off to-day that I am, Tess, after all! You don’t believe that you ought to preach my doctrine, and, therefore, do no despite to your conscience in abstaining. I do believe I ought to preach it, but, like the devils, I believe and tremble, for I suddenly leave off preaching it, and give way to my passion for you.’
“好吧——毕竟，你今天比我过得更好，苔丝！”你认为你不应该宣讲我的教义，因此，不要违背你的良心而放弃我的教义。我确实相信我应该宣讲它，但是，就像魔鬼一样，我相信并颤抖，因为我突然停止宣扬它，并让位给我对你的热情。

‘How?’
'如何？'

‘Why,’ he said aridly; ‘I have come all the way here to see you to-day! But I started from home to go to Casterbridge Fair, where I have undertaken to preach the Word from a waggon at half-past two this afternoon, and where all the brethren are expecting me this minute. Here’s the announcement.’
“为什么？”他干巴巴地说。 “我今天特意跑到这里来，就是为了见你！”但我从家里出发，前往卡斯特桥集市，今天下午两点半，我在那里的马车上宣讲神的话语，所有的弟兄们都在等我。这是公告。

He drew from his breast-pocket a poster whereon was printed the day, hour, and place of meeting, at which he, d’Urberville, would preach the Gospel as aforesaid.
他从胸前的口袋里掏出一张海报，上面印着聚会的日期、时间和地点，德伯维尔将在会上宣讲上述福音。

‘But how can you get there?’ said Tess, looking at the clock.
“但是你怎么才能到那里呢？”苔丝看着时钟说道。

‘I cannot get there! I have come here.’
‘我去不了那里！我来过这里。

‘What, you have really arranged to preach, and—‘
“什么，你真的安排去传教了，而且——”

‘I have arranged to preach, and I shall not be there—by reason of my burning desire to see a woman whom I once despised!—No, by my word and truth, I never despised you; if I had I should not love you now! Why I did not despise you was on account of your being unsmirched in spite of all; you withdrew yourself from me so quickly and resolutely when you saw the situation; you did not remain at my pleasure; so there was one petticoat in the world for whom I had no contempt, and you are she. But you may well despise me now! I thought I worshipped on the mountains, but I find I still serve in the groves! Ha! ha!’
“我已经安排去讲道了，但我不会去那里——因为我强烈地渴望见到一个我曾经鄙视过的女人！——不，以我的话和事实来说，我从来没有鄙视过你；我从来没有鄙视过你。”如果我有的话我现在就不会爱你了！我之所以不鄙视你，是因为你无论如何都没有玷污；当你看到这种情况时，你如此迅速而坚决地离开了我；你并没有随我高兴；所以，世界上只有一位我不鄙视的衬裙，你就是她。但你现在可能会鄙视我！我以为我在山上敬拜，结果我发现我还在树林里事奉！哈！哈！'

‘O Alec d’Urberville! what does this mean? What have I done!’
‘啊，亚历克·德伯维尔！这是什么意思？我做了什么！'

‘Done?’ he said, with a soulless sneer in the word. ‘Nothing intentionally. But you have been the means—the innocent means—of my backsliding, as they call it. I ask myself, am I, indeed, one of those ‘servants of corruption’ who, ‘after they have escaped the pollutions of the world, are again entangled therein and overcome’— whose latter end is worse than their beginning?’ He laid his hand on her shoulder. ‘Tess, my girl, I was on the way to, at least, social salvation till I saw you again!’ he said freakishly shaking her, as if she were a child. ‘And why then have you tempted me? I was firm as a man could be till I saw those eyes and that mouth again—surely there never was such a maddening mouth since Eve’s!’ His voice sank, and a hot archness shot from his own black eyes. ‘You temptress, Tess; you dear damned witch of Babylon—I could not resist you as soon as I met you again!’
“完成了吗？”他说，话语中带着毫无灵魂的冷笑。 ‘没有什么故意的。但正如他们所说，你一直是我倒退的手段——无辜的手段。我问自己，我是否真的是那些“腐败的仆人”之一，“在摆脱了世界的污染之后，又再次陷入其中并被克服”——他们的结局比他们的开始更糟糕？”他提出他的手放在她的肩膀上。 “苔丝，我的女孩，在我再次见到你之前，我至少正在走向社会救赎！”他怪异地摇晃着她，仿佛她是个孩子。 ‘那么你为什么要诱惑我呢？我像一个男人一样坚定，直到我再次看到那双眼睛和那张嘴——自从夏娃的嘴以来，肯定从来没有过如此令人发狂的嘴！”他的声音沉了下来，他的黑色眼睛里射出炽热的狡猾。 “你这个妖妇，苔丝；你这个可恶的巴比伦女巫——我一见到你就无法抗拒你！

‘I couldn’t help your seeing me again!’ said Tess, recoiling.
“我忍不住让你再次见到我！”苔丝向后退了一步说道。

‘I know it—I repeat that I do not blame you. But the fact remains. When I saw you ill-used on the farm that day I was nearly mad to think that I had no legal right to protect you—that I could not have it; whilst he who has it seems to neglect you utterly!’
“我知道——我再说一遍，我不怪你。但事实依然如此。那天，当我看到你在农场受到虐待时，我几乎要疯了，因为我认为我没有合法的权利来保护你——我不能拥有它；我没有权利保护你。而拥有它的人似乎完全忽视了你！

‘Don’t speak against him—he is absent!’ she cried in much excitement. ‘Treat him honourably—he has never wronged you! O leave his wife before any scandal spreads that may do harm to his honest name!’
“别说他的坏话——他不在！”她兴奋地喊道。 ‘尊重他——他从来没有冤枉过你！哦，在任何可能损害他名誉的丑闻蔓延之前，离开他的妻子吧！”

‘I will—I will,’ he said, like a man awakening from a luring dream. ‘I have broken my engagement to preach to those poor drunken boobies at the fair—it is the first time I have played such a practical joke. A month ago I should have been horrified at such a possibility. I’ll go away—to swear—and—ah, can I! to keep away.’ Then, suddenly: ‘One clasp, Tessy—one! Only for old friendship—‘
“我会——我会，”他说道，就像一个从诱人的梦中醒来的人。 “我违背了在集市上向那些可怜的醉醺醺的人布道的约定——这是我第一次开这样的恶作剧。一个月前，我应该对这种可能性感到震惊。我要走开——发誓——然后——啊，我可以吗！然后，突然：“一扣，泰西——一扣！只为旧日友谊——’

‘I am without defence. Alec! A good man’s honour is in my keeping— think—be ashamed!’
‘我毫无防备。亚历克！一个好人的荣誉由我来维护——想一想——感到羞耻吧！

‘Pooh! Well, yes—yes!’
'呸！嗯，是的——是的！

He clenched his lips, mortified with himself for his weakness. His eyes were equally barren of worldly and religious faith. The corpses of those old fitful passions which had lain inanimate amid the lines of his face ever since his reformation seemed to wake and come together as in a resurrection. He went out indeterminately.
他咬紧嘴唇，为自己的软弱感到羞愧。他的眼睛同样缺乏世俗和宗教信仰。自从他改过自新以来，那些旧时断断续续的激情的尸体就在他脸上的皱纹中毫无生气，似乎苏醒了，并像复活一样聚集在一起。他茫然地出去了。

Though d’Urberville had declared that this breach of his engagement to-day was the simple backsliding of a believer, Tess’s words, as echoed from Angel Clare, had made a deep impression upon him, and continued to do so after he had left her. He moved on in silence, as if his energies were benumbed by the hitherto undreamt-of possibility that his position was untenable. Reason had had nothing to do with his whimsical conversion, which was perhaps the mere freak of a careless man in search of a new sensation, and temporarily impressed by his mother’s death.
尽管德伯维尔宣称今天违反婚约只是信徒的倒退，但苔丝的话，正如安吉尔·克莱尔的呼应，给他留下了深刻的印象，并且在他离开她后继续这样做。他默默地继续前行，仿佛他的地位已经站不住脚了，这种可能性让他的精力变得麻木了，这种可能性是迄今为止从未想象过的。他的异想天开的转变与理性无关，这也许只是一个粗心的人为了寻找新的感觉而产生的怪胎，他母亲的死暂时给他留下了深刻的印象。

The drops of logic Tess had let fall into the sea of his enthusiasm served to chill its effervescence to stagnation. He said to himself, as he pondered again and again over the crystallized phrases that she had handed on to him, ‘That clever fellow little thought that, by telling her those things, he might be paving my way back to her!’
苔丝滴入的逻辑之滴落入了他热情的海洋，使热情的沸腾变得停滞。当他一遍又一遍地思考着她交给他的那些具体的短语时，他自言自语道：“这个聪明的家伙没想到，通过告诉她这些事情，他可能会为我回到她身边铺平道路！”

XLVII
第四十七章

It is the threshing of the last wheat-rick at Flintcomb-Ash farm. The dawn of the March morning is singularly inexpressive, and there is nothing to show where the eastern horizon lies. Against the twilight rises the trapezoidal top of the stack, which has stood forlornly here through the washing and bleaching of the wintry weather.
这是弗林特科姆阿什农场最后一个麦垛的脱粒工作。三月早晨的黎明出奇地平淡无奇，也看不到东方地平线在哪里。在暮色的映衬下，梯形的堆垛顶部升起，在寒冷的天气的洗涤和漂白中，它孤零零地矗立在这里。

When Izz Huett and Tess arrived at the scene of operations only a rustling denoted that others had preceded them; to which, as the light increased, there were presently added the silhouettes of two men on the summit. They were busily ‘unhaling’ the rick, that is, stripping off the thatch before beginning to throw down the sheaves; and while this was in progress Izz and Tess, with the other women-workers, in their whitey-brown pinners, stood waiting and shivering, Farmer Groby having insisted upon their being on the spot thus early to get the job over if possible by the end of the day. Close under the eaves of the stack, and as yet barely visible, was the red tyrant that the women had come to serve—a timber-framed construction, with straps and wheels appertaining— the threshing-machine which, whilst it was going, kept up a despotic demand upon the endurance of their muscles and nerves.
当伊兹·休特和苔丝到达行动现场时，只有一阵沙沙声表明其他人已经先于他们。随着光线的增强，山峰上很快就出现了两个人的轮廓。他们正忙着“解开”稻草，也就是说，在开始扔禾捆之前先把茅草剥掉。正当这一切进行的时候，伊兹和苔丝以及其他女工，穿着白棕色的大衣，站在那儿瑟瑟发抖，农场主格罗比坚持要求她们这么早就到现场，以便尽可能在一天结束。靠近堆垛的屋檐下，几乎看不见的是女人们来服务的红色暴君——一个木结构的建筑，有带子和轮子——脱粒机，在运行时，保持着对他们的肌肉和神经的耐力提出了专制的要求。

A little way off there was another indistinct figure; this one black, with a sustained hiss that spoke of strength very much in reserve. The long chimney running up beside an ash-tree, and the warmth which radiated from the spot, explained without the necessity of much daylight that here was the engine which was to act as the primum mobile of this little world. By the engine stood a dark, motionless being, a sooty and grimy embodiment of tallness, in a sort of trance, with a heap of coals by his side: it was the engine-man. The isolation of his manner and colour lent him the appearance of a creature from Tophet, who had strayed into the pellucid smokelessness of this region of yellow grain and pale soil, with which he had nothing in common, to amaze and to discompose its aborigines.
不远处还有另一个模糊的人影。这是一只黑色的，发出持续的嘶嘶声，表明力量非常储备。长长的烟囱在白蜡树旁边拔地而起，从那里散发出的温暖，无需太多的日光就可以解释，这里是发动机，将充当这个小世界的主要移动装置。发动机旁边站着一个黑色的、一动不动的人，一个黑黑肮脏的高个子，处于一种恍惚状态，旁边放着一堆煤炭：那是发动机工。他的举止和肤色与世隔绝，使他看起来像是来自托斐特的生物，他误入了这片黄色谷物和苍白土壤的清澈无烟的地区，与他没有任何共同之处，让当地的原住民感到惊讶和不安。

What he looked he felt. He was in the agricultural world, but not of it. He served fire and smoke; these denizens of the fields served vegetation, weather, frost, and sun. He travelled with his engine from farm to farm, from county to county, for as yet the steam threshing-machine was itinerant in this part of Wessex. He spoke in a strange northern accent; his thoughts being turned inwards upon himself, his eye on his iron charge, hardly perceiving the scenes around him, and caring for them not at all: holding only strictly necessary intercourse with the natives, as if some ancient doom compelled him to wander here against his will in the service of his Plutonic master. The long strap which ran from the driving-wheel of his engine to the red thresher under the rick was the sole tie-line between agriculture and him.
他看起来什么，他就感觉到什么。他身处农业世界，但又不属于农业世界。他为火和烟服务；这些田野里的居民为植被、天气、霜冻和阳光服务。他带着他的引擎从一个农场到另一个农场，从一个县到另一个县，因为蒸汽脱粒机在威塞克斯的这一地区仍然流动。他说话带有一种奇怪的北方口音。他的思绪转向内心，关注着自己的铁锤，几乎看不到周围的场景，也根本不关心它们：只与当地人进行严格必要的交往，仿佛某种古老的厄运迫使他在这里徘徊他的意志是为他的冥王主人服务的。从发动机的驱动轮一直延伸到稻草垛下的红色脱粒机的长带子是农业和他之间唯一的联系线。

While they uncovered the sheaves he stood apathetic beside his portable repository of force, round whose hot blackness the morning air quivered. He had nothing to do with preparatory labour. His fire was waiting incandescent, his steam was at high pressure, in a few seconds he could make the long strap move at an invisible velocity. Beyond its extent the environment might be corn, straw, or chaos; it was all the same to him. If any of the autochthonous idlers asked him what he called himself, he replied shortly, ‘an engineer.’
当他们揭开捆捆时，他冷漠地站在他的便携式力量储存库旁边，清晨的空气在其周围灼热的黑暗中颤抖。他与准备工作无关。他的火正炽热地等待着，他的蒸汽处于高压状态，几秒钟之内他就能让长带子以看不见的速度移动。超出其范围，环境可能是玉米、稻草或混乱；对他来说都一样。如果有哪个本地闲人问他自称什么，他会简短地回答：“一名工程师。”

The rick was unhaled by full daylight; the men then took their places, the women mounted, and the work began. Farmer Groby—or, as they called him, ‘he’—had arrived ere this, and by his orders Tess was placed on the platform of the machine, close to the man who fed it, her business being to untie every sheaf of corn handed on to her by Izz Huett, who stood next, but on the rick; so that the feeder could seize it and spread it over the revolving drum, which whisked out every grain in one moment.
天亮了，瑞克就被拉出来了。然后男人们就位，女人们上车，工作开始了。农夫格罗比——或者，人们称呼他为“他”——在此之前就已经到达了，按照他的命令，苔丝被放在机器的平台上，靠近喂它的人，她的任务是解开每一捆玉米伊兹·休特 (Izz Huett) 递给了她，伊兹·休特站在旁边，但在摇篮上。这样喂料器就可以抓住它并将其散布在旋转的滚筒上，滚筒瞬间搅拌出每一粒谷物。

They were soon in full progress, after a preparatory hitch or two, which rejoiced the hearts of those who hated machinery. The work sped on till breakfast time, when the thresher was stopped for half an hour; and on starting again after the meal the whole supplementary strength of the farm was thrown into the labour of constructing the straw-rick, which began to grow beside the stack of corn. A hasty lunch was eaten as they stood, without leaving their positions, and then another couple of hours brought them near to dinner-time; the inexorable wheel continuing to spin, and the penetrating hum of the thresher to thrill to the very marrow all who were near the revolving wire-cage.
经过一两次准备工作后，他们很快就全面进展了，这让那些讨厌机械的人感到高兴。工作一直进行到早餐时间，脱粒机停了半个小时。饭后重新开始，农场的全部补充力量都投入到建造稻草堆的劳动中，稻草堆开始在玉米堆旁边生长。他们站着，没有离开自己的位置，匆匆吃了一顿午餐，然后又过了几个小时，他们就接近晚餐时间了。车轮无情地继续旋转，脱粒机发出的刺耳的嗡嗡声让所有靠近旋转铁丝笼的人都兴奋不已。

The old men on the rising straw-rick talked of the past days when they had been accustomed to thresh with flails on the oaken barn-floor; when everything, even to winnowing, was effected by hand-labour, which, to their thinking, though slow, produced better results. Those, too, on the corn-rick talked a little; but the perspiring ones at the machine, including Tess, could not lighten their duties by the exchange of many words. It was the ceaselessness of the work which tried her so severely, and began to make her wish that she had never some to Flintcomb-Ash. The women on the corn-rick—Marian, who was one of them, in particular—could stop to drink ale or cold tea from the flagon now and then, or to exchange a few gossiping remarks while they wiped their faces or cleared the fragments of straw and husk from their clothing; but for Tess there was no respite; for, as the drum never stopped, the man who fed it could not stop, and she, who had to supply the man with untied sheaves, could not stop either, unless Marian changed places with her, which she sometimes did for half an hour in spite of Groby’s objections that she was too slow-handed for a feeder.
稻草堆上的老人谈论着过去的日子，他们习惯于在谷仓的橡木地板上用连枷打谷。当时，一切事情，甚至扬场，都是靠手工劳动完成的，在他们看来，手工劳动虽然缓慢，但效果更好。那些在玉米垛上的人也聊了一会儿；但机器旁那些汗流浃背的人，包括苔丝，也无法通过大量的交谈来减轻自己的职责。正是无休无止的工作让她受到了如此严峻的考验，并开始让她希望自己永远不要有燧石梳子。玉米垛上的女人们——特别是玛丽安，她也是其中之一——可以时不时地停下来喝一杯啤酒或从酒壶里倒出来的冷茶，或者一边擦脸或清理碎片，一边闲聊几句。他们衣服上的稻草和谷壳；但苔丝却没有喘息的机会。因为，由于鼓声永远不会停止，喂鼓的人也无法停止，而她，必须向那个人提供解开的禾捆，也无法停止，除非玛丽安与她交换位置，有时她会这样做半个小时尽管格罗比反对，认为她动作太慢，不适合喂食。

For some probably economical reason it was usually a woman who was chosen for this particular duty, and Groby gave as his motive in selecting Tess that she was one of those who best combined strength with quickness in untying, and both with staying power, and this may have been true. The hum of the thresher, which prevented speech, increased to a raving whenever the supply of corn fell short of the regular quantity. As Tess and the man who fed could never turn their heads she did not know that just before the dinner-hour a person had come silently into the field by the gate, and had been standing under a second rick watching the scene and Tess in particular. He was dressed in a tweed suit of fashionable pattern, and he twirled a gay walking-cane.
出于某种可能的经济原因，通常选择女性来承担这一特殊职责，格罗比选择苔丝的动机是，她是那些最能将力量与解绑速度结合起来的人之一，而且两者都具有持久力，而这也许是真的。每当玉米供应量低于正常数量时，脱粒机的嗡嗡声就会变得令人无法说话。由于苔丝和喂饭的人始终无法回头，她不知道就在晚餐时间之前，有人悄悄地从门口走进了田野，站在第二个草垛下看着这一幕，尤其是苔丝。 。他穿着一套款式时尚的粗花呢套装，手里拿着一根欢快的手杖。

‘Who is that?’ said Izz Huett to Marian. She had at first addressed the inquiry to Tess, but the latter could not hear it.
“那是谁？”伊兹·休特对玛丽安说。她起初向苔丝询问，但后者听不到。

‘Somebody’s fancy-man, I s’pose,’ said Marian laconically.
“我想，有人是个花心男人，”玛丽安简洁地说。

‘I’ll lay a guinea he’s after Tess.’
“我要下一个几尼，他在追寻苔丝。”

‘O no. ‘Tis a ranter pa’son who’s been sniffing after her lately; not a dandy like this.’
‘噢，不。 “这是个爱胡言乱语的人，最近一直在跟踪她；不是这样的花花公子。

‘Well—this is the same man.’
“嗯——这是同一个人。”

‘The same man as the preacher? But he’s quite different!’
‘和传教士是同一个人吗？但他完全不同！

‘He hev left off his black coat and white neckercher, and hev cut off his whiskers; but he’s the same man for all that.’
“他脱掉了黑色外套和白色领子，还剪掉了胡须；但尽管如此，他还是同一个人。

‘D’ye really think so? Then I’ll tell her,’ said Marian.
‘你真的这么认为吗？然后我会告诉她，”玛丽安说。

‘Don’t. She’ll see him soon enough, good-now.’
'不。她很快就会见到他的，好了。

‘Well, I don’t think it at all right for him to join his preaching to courting a married woman, even though her husband mid be abroad, and she, in a sense, a widow.’
“嗯，我认为他完全不应该加入他的讲道去追求一个已婚妇女，尽管她的丈夫在国外，而她在某种意义上是一个寡妇。”

‘Oh—he can do her no harm,’ said Izz drily. ‘Her mind can no more be heaved from that one place where it do bide than a stooded waggon from the hole he’s in. Lord love ‘ee, neither court-paying, nor preaching, nor the seven thunders themselves, can wean a woman when ‘twould be better for her that she should be weaned.’
“哦——他不能伤害她，”伊兹冷冷地说。 “她的思绪无法离开它所驻留的地方，就像一辆停着的马车离开他所在的洞一样。上帝啊，无论是支付法庭费用，还是说教，或者七雷本身，都不能让一个女人断奶。 “让她断奶对她来说更好。”

Dinner-time came, and the whirling ceased; whereupon Tess left her post, her knees trembling so wretchedly with the shaking of the machine that she could scarcely walk.
晚餐时间到了，旋转声停止了。于是苔丝就离开了她的岗位，她的膝盖随着机器的摇晃而剧烈颤抖，几乎无法行走。

‘You ought to het a quart o’ drink into ‘ee, as I’ve done,’ said Marian. ‘You wouldn’t look so white then. Why, souls above us, your face is as if you’d been hagrode!’
“你应该像我一样喝一夸脱酒，”玛丽安说。 ‘那时你看起来就不会那么白了。为什么，我们之上的灵魂们，你们的脸就像是哈格德一样！

It occurred to the good-natured Marian that, as Tess was so tired, her discovery of her visitor’s presence might have the bad effect of taking away her appetite; and Marian was thinking of inducing Tess to descend by a ladder on the further side of the stack when the gentleman came forward and looked up.
善良的玛丽安想到，由于苔丝太累了，她发现访客的存在可能会对她的胃口产生不良影响。玛丽安正想着引导苔丝从书堆另一边的梯子下来，这时那位绅士走上前来，抬起头来。

Tess uttered a short little ‘Oh!’ And a moment after she said, quickly, ‘I shall eat my dinner here—right on the rick.’
苔丝短促地发出一声“哦！”，过了一会儿，她很快地说：“我要在这里吃晚饭——就在瑞克上。”

Sometimes, when they were so far from their cottages, they all did this; but as there was rather a keen wind going to-day, Marian and the rest descended, and sat under the straw-stack.
有时，当他们离自己的小屋很远时，他们都会这样做。但由于今天风很大，玛丽安和其他人就下来，坐在稻草堆下面。

The newcomer was, indeed, Alec d’Urberville, the late Evangelist, despite his changed attire and aspect. It was obvious at a glance that the original Weltlust had come back; that he had restored himself, as nearly as a man could do who had grown three or four years older, to the old jaunty, slapdash guise under which Tess had first known her admirer, and cousin so-called. Having decided to remain where she was, Tess sat down among the bundles, out of sight of the ground, and began her meal; till, by-and-by, she heard footsteps on the ladder, and immediately after Alec appeared upon the stack—now an oblong and level platform of sheaves. He strode across them, and sat down opposite of her without a word.
这位新来者确实是已故福音传教士亚历克·德伯维尔，尽管他的着装和外貌都发生了变化。一眼就能看出，原来的世界欲望又回来了；他几乎像一个大了三四岁的男人一样，恢复了苔丝第一次认识她的仰慕者和所谓的表弟时那种轻松、草率的样子。苔丝决定留在原地，在看不见地面的包裹中间坐下，开始吃饭。直到不久，她听到梯子上有脚步声，亚历克立即出现在垛子上——现在是一个长方形的水平平台。他大步跨过他们，一言不发地在她对面坐下。

Tess continued to eat her modest dinner, a slice of thick pancake which she had brought with her. The other workfolk were by this time all gathered under the rick, where the loose straw formed a comfortable retreat.
苔丝继续吃着她那份简单的晚餐，她带来了一块厚煎饼。此时，其他工人都聚集到了稻草堆下，松散的稻草形成了一个舒适的避难所。

‘I am here again, as you see,’ said d’Urberville.
“如你所见，我又在这里了，”德伯维尔说。

‘Why do you trouble me so!’ she cried, reproach flashing from her very finger-ends.
“你为什么这么麻烦我！”她喊道，指尖闪烁着责备的光芒。

‘I trouble YOU? I think I may ask, why do you trouble me?’
‘我给你添麻烦了？我想我可以问，你为什么要麻烦我？

‘Sure, I don’t trouble you any-when!’
“当然，我不会麻烦你任何时候！”

‘You say you don’t? But you do! You haunt me. Those very eyes that you turned upon my with such a bitter flash a moment ago, they come to me just as you showed them then, in the night and in the day! Tess, ever since you told me of that child of ours, it is just as if my feelings, which have been flowing in a strong puritanical stream, had suddenly found a way open in the direction of you, and had all at once gushed through. The religious channel is left dry forthwith; and it is you who have done it!’
‘你说你不？但你做了！你困扰着我。刚才你用如此痛苦的目光转向我的那双眼睛，无论白天黑夜，它们都像你当时所展示的那样来到我身边！苔丝，自从你告诉我我们的那个孩子以来，我的感情就像一股清教徒般的清流，突然找到了一条通向你的方向，一下子就涌了出来。 。宗教渠道立刻就干涸了；是你干的！

She gazed in silence.
她默默地凝视着。

‘What—you have given up your preaching entirely?’ she asked. She had gathered from Angel sufficient of the incredulity of modern thought to despise flash enthusiasm; but, as a woman, she was somewhat appalled.
“什么——你完全放弃了讲道吗？”她问道。她从安吉尔那里汲取了足够多的现代思想的怀疑，从而鄙视一时的热情。但作为一个女人，她却有些震惊。

In affected severity d’Urberville continued—
德伯维尔继续说道——

‘Entirely. I have broken every engagement since that afternoon I was to address the drunkards at Casterbridge Fair. The deuce only knows what I am thought of by the brethren. Ah-ha! The brethren! No doubt they pray for me—weep for me; for they are kind people in their way. But what do I care? How could I go on with the thing when I had lost my faith in it?—it would have been hypocrisy of the basest kind! Among them I should have stood like Hymenaeus and Alexander, who were delivered over to Satan that they might learn not to blaspheme. What a grand revenge you have taken! I saw you innocent, and I deceived you. Four years after, you find me a Christian enthusiast; you then work upon me, perhaps to my complete perdition! But Tess, my coz, as I used to call you, this is only my way of talking, and you must not look so horribly concerned. Of course you have done nothing except retain your pretty face and shapely figure. I saw it on the rick before you saw me—that tight pinafore-thing sets it off, and that wing-bonnet—you field-girls should never wear those bonnets if you wish to keep out of danger.’ He regarded her silently for a few moments, and with a short cynical laugh resumed: ‘I believe that if the bachelor-apostle, whose deputy I thought I was, had been tempted by such a pretty face, he would have let go the plough for her sake as I do!’
'完全。自从那天下午我要在卡斯特桥集市上向酒鬼演讲以来，我就毁掉了所有的约定。只有天知道弟兄们对我的看法。啊哈！弟兄们！毫无疑问，他们为我祈祷——为我哭泣；因为他们都是善良的人。但我关心什么呢？当我对它失去信心时，我怎么能继续做下去呢？——这就是最卑鄙的虚伪！我应该像许米乃和亚历山大一样站在他们中间，他们被交给撒旦，以便他们学会不亵渎。你报的仇是多么大呀！我看到你无辜，我欺骗了你。四年后，你发现我是一名基督教爱好者；然后你就对我下手，也许我会彻底灭亡！但是苔丝，我的朋友，正如我以前这样称呼你的，这只是我说话的方式，你一定不要看起来那么担心。当然，除了保持漂亮的脸蛋和匀称的身材之外，你什么也没做。在你看到我之前我就在瑞克上看到过它——那件紧身围裙的东西衬托了它，还有那顶翼形帽子——你们这些女田野姑娘如果想远离危险就永远不应该戴那些帽子。”他默默地看着她。过了一会儿，又带着一阵短促的愤世嫉俗的笑声：“我相信，如果那位单身使徒——我以为我是他的副手——被这张漂亮的脸所诱惑，他会为了她而松开犁，就像我一样。”做！'

Tess attempted to expostulate, but at this juncture all her fluency failed her, and without heeding he added:
苔丝试图劝告，但此时她的流利程度已经失效，他没有理睬，又补充道：

‘Well, this paradise that you supply is perhaps as good as any other, after all. But to speak seriously, Tess.’ D’Urberville rose and came nearer, reclining sideways amid the sheaves, and resting upon his elbow. ‘Since I last saw you, I have been thinking of what you said that HE said. I have come to the conclusion that there does seem rather a want of common-sense in these threadbare old propositions; how I could have been so fired by poor Parson Clare’s enthusiasm, and have gone so madly to work, transcending even him, I cannot make out! As for what you said last time, on the strength of your wonderful husband’s intelligence—whose name you have never told me—about having what they call an ethical system without any dogma, I don’t see my way to that at all.’
“好吧，毕竟，你提供的这个天堂也许和其他天堂一样好。不过说实话，苔丝。”德伯维尔站起身来，靠得更近了，侧身斜靠在禾捆中间，靠在他的胳膊肘上。 “自从我上次见到你以来，我一直在想你说的那些话。我得出的结论是，这些陈旧的旧命题似乎确实缺乏常识。我怎么会被可怜的克莱尔牧师的热情所激发，如此疯狂地去工作，甚至超越了他，我无法理解！至于你上次所说的，依靠你出色的丈夫的智慧——你从未告诉我他的名字——关于建立他们所谓的没有任何教条的道德体系，我根本看不到我的方法。

‘Why, you can have the religion of loving-kindness and purity at least, if you can’t have—what do you call it—dogma.’
“嘿，如果你不能拥有——你怎么称呼它——教条，你至少可以拥有慈爱和纯洁的宗教。”

‘O no! I’m a different sort of fellow from that! If there’s nobody to say, ‘Do this, and it will be a good thing for you after you are dead; do that, and if will be a bad thing for you,’ I can’t warm up. Hang it, I am not going to feel responsible for my deeds and passions if there’s nobody to be responsible to; and if I were you, my dear, I wouldn’t either!’
‘噢不！我是一个不同的人！如果没有人说：‘这样做吧，死后对你来说是件好事；这样做，如果对你来说是一件坏事，’我无法热身。等等，如果没有人需要对我负责，我就不会为我的行为和激情负责；如果我是你，亲爱的，我也不会！

She tried to argue, and tell him that he had mixed in his dull brain two matters, theology and morals, which in the primitive days of mankind had been quite distinct. But owing to Angel Clare’s reticence, to her absolute want of training, and to her being a vessel of emotions rather than reasons, she could not get on.
她试图与他争辩，并告诉他，他在迟钝的大脑中混杂了神学和道德这两种事物，而在人类的原始时代，这两种事物是截然不同的。但由于安吉尔·克莱尔的沉默寡言，由于她完全缺乏训练，而且她是情感而不是理性的容器，她无法继续下去。

‘Well, never mind,’ he resumed. ‘Here I am, my love, as in the old times!’
“好吧，没关系，”他继续说道。 “我在这里，亲爱的，就像以前一样！”

‘Not as then—never as then—‘tis different!’ she entreated. ‘And there was never warmth with me! O why didn’t you keep your faith, if the loss of it has brought you to speak to me like this!’
“不一样了——从来不一样——‘不一样了！’她恳求道。 ‘而我从来没有温暖过！哦，如果你失去了信仰，你就这样对我说话，为什么你不坚持呢！

‘Because you’ve knocked it out of me; so the evil be upon your sweet head! Your husband little thought how his teaching would recoil upon him! Ha-ha—I’m awfully glad you have made an apostate of me all the same! Tess, I am more taken with you than ever, and I pity you too. For all your closeness, I see you are in a bad way—neglected by one who ought to cherish you.’
‘因为你已经把我打垮了；所以邪恶就降临在你可爱的头上吧！你丈夫几乎没有想到他的教导会对他产生多大的反作用！哈哈——我还是很高兴你背叛了我！苔丝，我比以往任何时候都更喜欢你，我也可怜你。尽管你们很亲近，但我发现你的处境很糟糕——被一个应该珍惜你的人忽视了。”

She could not get her morsels of food down her throat; her lips were dry, and she was ready to choke. The voices and laughs of the workfolk eating and drinking under the rick came to her as if they were a quarter of a mile off.
她无法把食物咽下去；她无法把食物咽下去。她的嘴唇干燥，快要窒息了。她听见工人们在井下吃喝的声音和笑声，仿佛就在四分之一英里之外。

‘It is cruelty to me!’ she said. ‘How—how can you treat me to this talk, if you care ever so little for me?’
“这对我来说太残酷了！”她说。 “如果你对我这么不关心，你怎么能接受我的谈话呢？”

‘True, true,’ he said, wincing a little. ‘I did not come to reproach you for my deeds. I came Tess, to say that I don’t like you to be working like this, and I have come on purpose for you. You say you have a husband who is not I. Well, perhaps you have; but I’ve never seen him, and you’ve not told me his name; and altogether he seems rather a mythological personage. However, even if you have one, I think I am nearer to you than he is. I, at any rate, try to help you out of trouble, but he does not, bless his invisible face! The words of the stern prophet Hosea that I used to read come back to me. Don’t you know them, Tess?—‘And she shall follow after her lover, but she shall not overtake him; and she shall seek him, but shall not find him; then shall she say, I will go and return to my first husband; for then was it better with me than now!’ ... Tess, my trap is waiting just under the hill, and—darling mine, not his!—you know the rest.’
“真的，真的，”他说，有点皱眉。 ‘我不是来责怪你的行为的。我来苔丝，是为了告诉你我不喜欢你这样工作，我是特意为你而来的。你说你有一个不是我的丈夫。好吧，也许你有；但我从未见过他，你也没有告诉我他的名字；总的来说，他更像是一个神话人物。不过，即使你有一个，我想我也比他离你更近。无论如何，我尽力帮助你摆脱困境，但他没有，祝福他那看不见的脸！我以前读过的严厉先知何西阿的话又浮现在我的脑海里。你不认识他们吗，苔丝？——“她会追随她的情人，但她不会追上他；她要寻找他，却找不到他；然后她会说，我要回去见我的第一任丈夫； “那时我的处境比现在更好！”……苔丝，我的陷阱就在山下等着，而且——亲爱的，我的，不是他的！——剩下的你都知道。

Her face had been rising to a dull crimson fire while he spoke; but she did not answer.
当他说话时，她的脸涨得通红。但她没有回答。

‘You have been the cause of my backsliding,’ he continued, stretching his arm towards her waist; ‘you should be willing to share it, and leave that mule you call husband for ever.’
“你是我堕落的原因，”他继续说道，将手臂伸向她的腰部。 “你应该愿意分享它，并永远离开那头你称之为丈夫的骡子。”

One of her leather gloves, which she had taken off to eat her skimmer-cake, lay in her lap, and without the slightest warning she passionately swung the glove by the gauntlet directly in his face. It was heavy and thick as a warrior’s, and it struck him flat on the mouth. Fancy might have regarded the act as the recrudescence of a trick in which her armed progenitors were not unpractised. Alec fiercely started up from his reclining position. A scarlet oozing appeared where her blow had alighted, and in a moment the blood began dropping from his mouth upon the straw. But he soon controlled himself, calmly drew his handkerchief from his pocket, and mopped his bleeding lips.
她为了吃撇油蛋糕而脱下的一只皮手套放在腿上，毫无预兆地，她热情地将手套直接甩到他脸上。它像战士一样又重又厚，正好击中了他的嘴。范西可能会认为这种行为是她的武装祖先并非没有练习过的把戏的重演。亚历克猛地从躺着的位置上站了起来。她击中的地方出现了猩红色的渗出物，刹那间，鲜血开始从他的嘴里滴到吸管上。但他很快就控制住了自己，平静地从口袋里掏出手帕，擦了擦流血的嘴唇。

She too had sprung up, but she sank down again. ‘Now, punish me!’ she said, turning up her eyes to him with the hopeless defiance of the sparrow’s gaze before its captor twists its neck. ‘Whip me, crush me; you need not mind those people under the rick! I shall not cry out. Once victim, always victim—that’s the law!’
她也站起来了，但又沉下去了。 “现在，惩罚我吧！”她说着，把目光转向他，就像捕获者扭断脖子之前麻雀的眼神一样，充满了绝望的蔑视。 ‘鞭打我，压碎我；你不必介意那些在井下的人！我不会哭出来。一旦是受害者，永远是受害者——这就是法律！”

‘O no, no, Tess,’ he said blandly. ‘I can make full allowance for this. Yet you most unjustly forget one thing, that I would have married you if you had not put it out of my power to do so. Did I not ask you flatly to be my wife—hey? Answer me.’
“噢，不，不，苔丝，”他温和地说。 “我可以充分考虑这一点。然而，你最不公正地忘记了一件事，如果你没有阻止我这样做，我就会嫁给你。我不是直截了当地要求你做我的妻子吗——嘿？回答我。'

‘You did.’
“你做到了。”

‘And you cannot be. But remember one thing!’ His voice hardened as his temper got the better of him with the recollection of his sincerity in asking her and her present ingratitude, and he stepped across to her side and held her by the shoulders, so that she shook under his grasp. ‘Remember, my lady, I was your master once! I will be your master again. If you are any man’s wife you are mine!’
‘但你不能这样。但记住一件事！”他的声音变得严厉，因为他的脾气控制住了他，想起他询问她的诚意和她现在的忘恩负义，他走到她身边，抓住她的肩膀，让她浑身发抖。他的把握。 “记住，我的女士，我曾经是你的主人！我会再次成为你的主人。如果你是任何男人的妻子，你就是我的妻子！

The threshers now began to stir below.
下面的脱粒机开始搅动。

‘So much for our quarrel,’ he said, letting her go. ‘Now I shall leave you, and shall come again for your answer during the afternoon. You don’t know me yet! But I know you.’
“我们的争吵就到此为止了。”他说着放开了她。 “现在我要离开你了，下午再来听你的答复。你还不认识我！但我认识你。

She had not spoken again, remaining as if stunned. D’Urberville retreated over the sheaves, and descended the ladder, while the workers below rose and stretched their arms, and shook down the beer they had drunk. Then the threshing-machine started afresh; and amid the renewed rustle of the straw Tess resumed her position by the buzzing drum as one in a dream, untying sheaf after sheaf in endless succession.
她没有再说话，一副震惊的样子。德伯维尔退到了禾捆上，走下梯子，而下面的工人们则站起来，伸展双臂，喝掉了喝下的啤酒。然后打谷机又开始运转了。在稻草重新发出的沙沙声中，苔丝在嗡嗡作响的鼓声旁恢复了原来的姿势，就像在梦中一样，接二连三地解开一捆又一捆的稻草。

XLVIII

In the afternoon the farmer made it known that the rick was to be finished that night, since there was a moon by which they could see to work, and the man with the engine was engaged for another farm on the morrow. Hence the twanging and humming and rustling proceeded with even less intermission than usual.
下午，农场主通知说，由于有月亮，他们可以在晚上完成工作，而带着发动机的人明天就要去另一个农场了。因此，叮当声、嗡嗡声和沙沙声比平时更少间歇。

It was not till ‘nammet’-time, about three o-clock, that Tess raised her eyes and gave a momentary glance round. She felt but little surprise at seeing that Alec d’Urberville had come back, and was standing under the hedge by the gate. He had seen her lift her eyes, and waved his hand urbanely to her, while he blew her a kiss. It meant that their quarrel was over. Tess looked down again, and carefully abstained from gazing in that direction.
直到“nammet”时间，大约三点钟，苔丝才抬起眼睛，向四周看了一眼。看到亚历克·德伯维尔回来了，站在门口的树篱下，她并不感到惊讶。他看见她抬起眼睛，彬彬有礼地向她挥手，同时给了她一个飞吻。这意味着他们的争吵已经结束了。苔丝又低下头，小心翼翼地不去看那个方向。

Thus the afternoon dragged on. The wheat-rick shrank lower, and the straw-rick grew higher, and the corn-sacks were carted away. At six o’clock the wheat-rick was about shoulder-high from the ground. But the unthreshed sheaves remaining untouched seemed countless still, notwithstanding the enormous numbers that had been gulped down by the insatiable swallower, fed by the man and Tess, through whose two young hands the greater part of them had passed. And the immense stack of straw where in the morning there had been nothing, appeared as the faeces of the same buzzing red glutton. From the west sky a wrathful shine—all that wild March could afford in the way of sunset—had burst forth after the cloudy day, flooding the tired and sticky faces of the threshers, and dyeing them with a coppery light, as also the flapping garments of the women, which clung to them like dull flames.
就这样，下午的时间就这么过去了。麦垛变低了，稻草垛变高了，玉米袋也被运走了。六点钟时，麦堆距离地面大约齐肩高。但未脱粒的谷粒似乎仍然数不胜数，尽管被贪得无厌的吞食者吞下的数量巨大，由男人和苔丝喂食，其中大部分都是通过他们两只年轻的手传递的。一大堆稻草早上什么也没有，现在却变成了同一只嗡嗡作响的红色贪食者的粪便。阴天过后，西边的天空发出了愤怒的光芒——狂野的三月所能提供的一切，就像日落一样——在阴天之后爆发出来，淹没了脱粒者疲惫而粘糊糊的脸，给他们染上了铜色的光芒，拍打翅膀的翅膀也染上了铜色的光芒。女人的衣服，像暗淡的火焰一样粘在她们身上。

A panting ache ran through the rick. The man who fed was weary, and Tess could see that the red nape of his neck was encrusted with dirt and husks. She still stood at her post, her flushed and perspiring face coated with the corndust, and her white bonnet embrowned by it. She was the only woman whose place was upon the machine so as to be shaken bodily by its spinning, and the decrease of the stack now separated her from Marian and Izz, and prevented their changing duties with her as they had done. The incessant quivering, in which every fibre of her frame participated, had thrown her into a stupefied reverie in which her arms worked on independently of her consciousness. She hardly knew where she was, and did not hear Izz Huett tell her from below that her hair was tumbling down.
一股气喘吁吁的疼痛传遍了瑞克。喂饭的人很疲倦，苔丝可以看到他脖子上的红色颈背上沾满了泥土和谷壳。她仍然站在自己的岗位上，通红、出汗的脸上沾满了玉米末，白色的帽子也被玉米末染红了。她是唯一一个坐在机器上、因机器旋转而身体摇晃的女性，而堆栈的减少现在将她与玛丽安和伊兹分开，并阻止他们像以前那样改变与她的职责。她全身的每一根纤维都参与其中，不停地颤抖，这让她陷入了一种恍惚的遐想，她的手臂在不受意识的影响下活动着。她几乎不知道自己在哪里，也没有听到伊兹·休特在下面告诉她，她的头发正在掉落。

By degrees the freshest among them began to grow cadaverous and saucer-eyed. Whenever Tess lifted her head she beheld always the great upgrown straw-stack, with the men in shirt-sleeves upon it, against the gray north sky; in front of it the long red elevator like a Jacob’s ladder, on which a perpetual stream of threshed straw ascended, a yellow river running uphill, and spouting out on the top of the rick.
渐渐地，他们中最新鲜的人开始变得苍白、眼睛圆圆的。每当苔丝抬起头时，她总会看到那巨大的稻草堆，上面坐着穿着衬衫的男人，映衬着北方灰色的天空。前面有一个长长的红色电梯，像雅各布的梯子，打完的稻草不断地在电梯上上升，一条黄色的河水向上流淌，在稻草堆的顶部喷涌而出。

She knew that Alec d’Urberville was still on the scene, observing her from some point or other, though she could not say where. There was an excuse for his remaining, for when the threshed rick drew near its final sheaves a little ratting was always done, and men unconnected with the threshing sometimes dropped in for that performance—sporting characters of all descriptions, gents with terriers and facetious pipes, roughs with sticks and stones.
她知道亚历克·德伯维尔仍在现场，从某个地方观察着她，尽管她说不出在哪里。他留下来是有理由的，因为当脱粒的稻草接近最后的禾捆时，总是会发出一点响动，与脱粒无关的人有时会过来观看那场表演——各种各样的运动人物，带着梗犬和滑稽的笛子的绅士、 粗糙的棍子和石头。

But there was another hour’s work before the layer of live rats at the base of the stack would be reached; and as the evening light in the direction of the Giant’s Hill by Abbot’s-Cernel dissolved away, the white-faced moon of the season arose from the horizon that lay towards Middleton Abbey and Shottsford on the other side. For the last hour or two Marian had felt uneasy about Tess, whom she could not get near enough to speak to, the other women having kept up their strength by drinking ale, and Tess having done without it through traditionary dread, owing to its results at her home in childhood. But Tess still kept going: if she could not fill her part she would have to leave; and this contingency, which she would have regarded with equanimity and even with relief a month or two earlier, had become a terror since d’Urberville had begun to hover round her.
但还需要一个小时的工作才能到达堆垛底部的活老鼠层。当阿博特中心向巨人山方向的暮光消散时，本季的白月亮从地平线升起，面向另一边的米德尔顿修道院和肖茨福德。在过去的一两个小时里，玛丽安对苔丝感到不安，她无法靠近她与她交谈，其他妇女通过喝啤酒来保持体力，而苔丝由于传统的恐惧而没有喝啤酒，因为它的后果小时候在她家。但苔丝仍然继续前行：如果她不能履行自己的职责，她就必须离开；如果她不能履行自己的职责，她就必须离开；一两个月前，她还会平静地看待这种意外事件，甚至会松一口气，但自从德伯维尔开始在她身边盘旋后，这种意外事件就变成了一种恐惧。

The sheaf-pitchers and feeders had now worked the rick so low that people on the ground could talk to them. To Tess’s surprise Farmer Groby came up on the machine to her, and said that if she desired to join her friend he did not wish her to keep on any longer, and would send somebody else to take her place. The ‘friend’ was d’Urberville, she knew, and also that this concession had been granted in obedience to the request of that friend, or enemy. She shook her head and toiled on.
现在，投禾捆的人和喂食的人已经把堆放得很低，地面上的人们可以和他们说话。令苔丝惊讶的是，农夫格罗比在机器上向她走来，说如果她想加入她的朋友，他不希望她再继续下去，并会派其他人代替她。她知道这个“朋友”就是德伯维尔，而且这一让步是为了服从那个朋友，或者说敌人的要求。她摇摇头，继续努力。

The time for the rat-catching arrived at last, and the hunt began. The creatures had crept downwards with the subsidence of the rick till they were all together at the bottom, and being now uncovered from their last refuge, they ran across the open ground in all directions, a loud shriek from the by-this-time half-tipsy Marian informing her companions that one of the rats had invaded her person—a terror which the rest of the women had guarded against by various schemes of skirt-tucking and self-elevation. The rat was at last dislodged, and, amid the barking of dogs, masculine shouts, feminine screams, oaths, stampings, and confusion as of Pandemonium, Tess untied her last sheaf; the drum slowed, the whizzing ceased, and she stepped from the machine to the ground.
捕鼠时间终于到了，狩猎开始了。这些生物随着土堆的下沉而向下爬，直到它们都聚集在底部，现在它们从最后的避难所中被发现，它们向四面八方跑过空旷的地面，这时从一半的地方传来一声响亮的尖叫声。喝得醉醺醺的玛丽安告诉她的同伴，其中一只老鼠已经侵入了她的身体——其他妇女通过各种把裙子卷起来和抬高自己的计划来防范这种恐惧。老鼠终于被赶了出来，在狗的吠叫、男性的呼喊、女性的尖叫、咒骂、跺脚和混乱中，苔丝解开了她的最后一捆麦子。鼓声减慢了，呼啸声停止了，她从机器上走到了地上。

Her lover, who had only looked on at the rat-catching, was promptly at her side.
只在一旁看着抓老鼠的爱人，很快就到了她身边。

‘What—after all—my insulting slap, too!’ said she in an underbreath. She was so utterly exhausted that she had not strength to speak louder.
“什么——毕竟——我还打了侮辱性的一巴掌！”她低声说道。她实在是太累了，连说话的力气都没有了。

‘I should indeed be foolish to feel offended at anything you say or do,’ he answered, in the seductive voice of the Trantridge time. ‘How the little limbs tremble! You are as weak as a bled calf, you know you are; and yet you need have done nothing since I arrived. How could you be so obstinate? However, I have told the farmer that he has no right to employ women at steam-threshing. It is not proper work for them; and on all the better class of farms it has been given up, as he knows very well. I will walk with you as far as your home.’
“我确实很愚蠢，因为你所说或所做的任何事而感到被冒犯，”他用特兰特里奇时代的诱人声音回答道。 ‘小四肢多么颤抖啊！你知道自己像一头流血的牛犊一样虚弱；然而自从我到来之后你就不需要做任何事了。你怎么能这么固执呢？但是，我已经告诉农民，他没有权利雇用妇女进行蒸汽脱粒。这对他们来说不是适当的工作；他很清楚，在所有较好的农场中，它都被放弃了。我会陪你一直走到你家。

‘O yes,’ she answered with a jaded gait. ‘Walk wi’ me if you will! I do bear in mind that you came to marry me before you knew o’ my state. Perhaps—perhaps you are a little better and kinder than I have been thinking you were. Whatever is meant as kindness I am grateful for; whatever is meant in any other way I am angered at. I cannot sense your meaning sometimes.’
“哦，是的，”她以疲倦的步态回答。如果你愿意的话，跟我一起走吧！我确实记得，你在了解我的处境之前就嫁给了我。也许——也许你比我想象的要好一些，更友善一些。无论是什么善意，我都心存感激；无论以其他方式表达什么，我都会感到愤怒。有时我无法理解你的意思。

‘If I cannot legitimize our former relations at least I can assist you. And I will do it with much more regard for your feelings than I formerly showed. My religious mania, or whatever it was, is over. But I retain a little good nature; I hope I do. Now, Tess, by all that’s tender and strong between man and woman, trust me! I have enough and more than enough to put you out of anxiety, both for yourself and your parents and sisters. I can make them all comfortable if you will only show confidence in me.’
“如果我不能使我们以前的关系合法化，至少我可以帮助你。我会比以前更加尊重你的感受。我的宗教狂热，或者无论它是什么，已经结束了。但我保留了一点善良的本性；我希望我能做到。现在，苔丝，凭着男人和女人之间的一切温柔和坚强，相信我！我有足够多的钱让你摆脱焦虑，无论是为了你自己，还是为了你的父母和姐妹。只要你对我表现出信心，我就能让他们都感到舒服。

‘Have you seen ‘em lately?’ she quickly inquired.
“你最近见过他们吗？”她很快问道。

‘Yes. They didn’t know where you were. It was only by chance that I found you here.’
'是的。他们不知道你在哪里。我在这里找到你纯属偶然。”

The cold moon looked aslant upon Tess’s fagged face between the twigs of the garden-hedge as she paused outside the cottage which was her temporary home, d’Urberville pausing beside her.
当苔丝在她临时住所的小屋外停下来时，寒冷的月亮斜照在花园篱笆的树枝间那张苍白的脸上，德伯维尔也在她身边停下来。

‘Don’t mention my little brothers and sisters—don’t make me break down quite!’ she said. ‘If you want to help them—God knows they need it—do it without telling me. But no, no!’ she cried. ‘I will take nothing from you, either for them or for me!’
“别提我的弟弟妹妹们，别让我彻底崩溃！”她说。 “如果你想帮助他们——上帝知道他们需要帮助——那就不用告诉我。但不，不！”她喊道。 “我不会从你那里拿走任何东西，无论是为了他们还是为了我！”

He did not accompany her further, since, as she lived with the household, all was public indoors. No sooner had she herself entered, laved herself in a washing-tub, and shared supper with the family than she fell into thought, and withdrawing to the table under the wall, by the light of her own little lamp wrote in a passionate mood—
他没有再陪她，因为她和这家人住在一起，室内的一切都是公共的。她自己进去，在洗衣盆里洗澡，和家人一起吃晚饭后，她陷入了沉思，退到墙下的桌子旁，借着自己的小灯的光，心情激动地写下了——

MY OWN HUSBAND,—
我自己的丈夫——


Let me call you so—I must—even if it makes you angry to think of such an unworthy wife as I. I must cry to you in my trouble—I have no one else! I am so exposed to temptation, Angel. I fear to say who it is, and I do not like to write about it at all. But I cling to you in a way you cannot think! Can you not come to me now, at once, before anything terrible happens? O, I know you cannot, because you are so far away! I think I must die if you do not come soon, or tell me to come to you. The punishment you have measured out to me is deserved—I do know that— well deserved—and you are right and just to be angry with me. But, Angel, please, please, not to be just—only a little kind to me, even if I do not deserve it, and come to me! If you would come, I could die in your arms! I would be well content to do that if so be you had forgiven me!
让我这样称呼你——我必须——即使你想到我这样一个不配的妻子会让你生气。我必须在我的麻烦中向你哭泣——我没有别人了！我是如此容易受到诱惑，天使。我不敢说他是谁，而且我根本不喜欢写它。但我以一种你无法想象的方式粘着你！在发生可怕的事情之前，你能不能现在就来找我吗？哦，我知道你不能，因为你太远了！我想如果你不快点来的话我就得死了，或者叫我来找你。你对我的惩罚是应得的——我确实知道这一点——当之无愧——而且你对我生气是对的，也是公正的。但是，天使，求你了，求你了，不要公正——只要对我好一点，即使我不值得，来找我吧！如果你来的话，我可以死在你怀里！如果你能原谅我的话，我会很乐意这样做！


Angel, I live entirely for you. I love you too much to blame you for going away, and I know it was necessary you should find a farm. Do not think I shall say a word of sting or bitterness. Only come back to me. I am desolate without you, my darling, O, so desolate! I do not mind having to work: but if you will send me one little line, and say, ‘I am coming soon,’ I will bide on, Angel—O, so cheerfully!
安琪儿，我完全是为了你而活。我太爱你了，不能责怪你的离开，而且我知道你有必要找到一个农场。别以为我会说一句尖酸刻薄的话。只回到我身边。亲爱的，没有你，我感到多么孤独，多么孤独啊！我不介意必须工作：但如果你给我发一封短信，说：“我很快就来，”我会坚持下去，天使——哦，多么高兴！


It has been so much my religion ever since we were married to be faithful to you in every thought and look, that even when a man speaks a compliment to me before I am aware, it seems wronging you. Have you never felt one little bit of what you used to feel when we were at the dairy? If you have, how can you keep away from me? I am the same women, Angel, as you fell in love with; yes, the very same!—not the one you disliked but never saw. What was the past to me as soon as I met you? It was a dead thing altogether. I became another woman, filled full of new life from you. How could I be the early one? Why do you not see this? Dear, if you would only be a little more conceited, and believe in yourself so far as to see that you were strong enough to work this change in me, you would perhaps be in a mind to come to me, your poor wife.
自从我们结婚以来，我的信仰就是在每一个想法和表情上都忠于你，即使一个男人在我意识到之前对我说恭维话，也似乎是在冤枉你。你有没有感受到一点点我们在牛奶场时的感受？如果有的话，你怎么能远离我呢？我就是你所爱的那个女人，天使；是的，一模一样！——不是你不喜欢但从未见过的那个。当我遇见你的时候，我的过去是什么？它完全是一个死物。我变成了另一个女人，充满了你的新生命。我怎么可能是第一个呢？你为什么看不到这个？亲爱的，如果你再自负一点，相信自己，相信你有足够的力量来改变我，你也许会愿意来找我，你可怜的妻子。


How silly I was in my happiness when I thought I could trust you always to love me! I ought to have known that such as that was not for poor me. But I am sick at heart, not only for old times, but for the present. Think—think how it do hurt my heart not to see you ever—ever! Ah, if I could only make your dear heart ache one little minute of each day as mine does every day and all day long, it might lead you to show pity to your poor lonely one.
当我以为我可以相信你永远爱我时，我在幸福中是多么愚蠢啊！我早该知道这样的事不适合可怜的我。但我心里很难受，不仅是过去的事，也是现在的事。想想——想想看不到你——永远见不到你，我的心多么受伤！啊，如果我只能让你亲爱的心每天疼痛一分钟，就像我每天、一整天一样，它可能会让你对你可怜的孤独的心表示同情。


People still say that I am rather pretty, Angel (handsome is the word they use, since I wish to be truthful). Perhaps I am what they say. But I do not value my good looks; I only like to have them because they belong to you, my dear, and that there may be at least one thing about me worth your having. So much have I felt this, that when I met with annoyance on account of the same, I tied up my face in a bandage as long as people would believe in it. O Angel, I tell you all this not from vanity—you will certainly know I do not—but only that you may come to me!
人们仍然说我相当漂亮，天使（他们用的词是英俊，因为我希望说实话）。也许我就是他们所说的那样。但我并不看重我的美貌；我只是喜欢拥有它们，因为它们属于你，亲爱的，而且我身上至少有一点值得你拥有。我对这一点的感受如此之深，以至于当我因此而感到烦恼时，只要人们相信，我就会用绷带绑住我的脸。天使啊，我告诉你这一切并不是出于虚荣——你肯定知道我不虚荣——而只是为了让你可以到我这里来！


If you really cannot come to me, will you let me come to you? I am, as I say, worried, pressed to do what I will not do. It cannot be that I shall yield one inch, yet I am in terror as to what an accident might lead to, and I so defenceless on account of my first error. I cannot say more about this—it makes me too miserable. But if I break down by falling into some fearful snare, my last state will be worse than my first. O God, I cannot think of it! Let me come at once, or at once come to me!
如果你实在不能来找我，你会让我来找你吗？正如我所说，我很担心，被迫去做我不会做的事情。我不可能屈服一寸，但我很害怕会发生什么意外，而且由于我的第一个错误，我毫无防备。我无法对此多说——这让我太痛苦了。但如果我因陷入可怕的陷阱而崩溃，我最后的状态将比第一次更糟糕。天哪，我想不到！让我马上来，或者马上来找我！


I would be content, ay, glad, to live with you as your servant, if I may not as your wife; so that I could only be near you, and get glimpses of you, and think of you as mine.
如果我不做你的妻子的话，我会很满足，是的，很高兴作为你的仆人与你生活在一起。所以我只能靠近你，瞥见你，把你视为我的。


The daylight has nothing to show me, since you are not here, and I don’t like to see the rooks and starlings in the field, because I grieve and grieve to miss you who used to see them with me. I long for only one thing in heaven or earth or under the earth, to meet you, my own dear! Come to me—come to me, and save me from what threatens me!—
白天没有什么可以给我看的，因为你不在这里，我不喜欢看到田野里的白嘴鸦和椋鸟，因为我悲伤又悲伤地想念曾经和我一起看到它们的你。我所渴望的只有一件事，无论是在天上，还是在地上，还是在地底下，都能见到你，我亲爱的！到我这里来——到我这里来，把我从威胁我的东西中拯救出来！——


Your faithful heartbroken
你忠实的心碎了


TESS
苔丝

XLIX

The appeal duly found its way to the breakfast-table of the quiet Vicarage to the westward, in that valley where the air is so soft and the soil so rich that the effort of growth requires but superficial aid by comparison with the tillage at Flintcomb-Ash, and where to Tess the human world seemed so different (though it was much the same). It was purely for security that she had been requested by Angel to send her communications through his father, whom he kept pretty well informed of his changing addresses in the country he had gone to exploit for himself with a heavy heart.
这种吸引力适时地出现在西边安静的牧师住宅的早餐桌上，在那个山谷里，空气如此柔软，土壤如此肥沃，与弗林特科姆的耕作相比，生长所需的努力不过是肤浅的帮助——艾什，以及对苔丝来说，人类世界似乎如此不同（尽管大体相同）。纯粹是出于安全考虑，安吉尔要求她通过他的父亲发送通讯，他非常清楚地告知他在这个他心情沉重地为自己开发的国家中地址的变化。

‘Now,’ said old Mr Clare to his wife, when he had read the envelope, ‘if Angel proposes leaving Rio for a visit home at the end of next month, as he told us that he hoped to do, I think this may hasten his plans; for I believe it to be from his wife.’ He breathed deeply at the thought of her; and the letter was redirected to be promptly sent on to Angel.
“现在，”老克莱尔先生读完信封后对妻子说道，“如果安吉尔提议下月底离开里约回国，就像他告诉我们的那样，我想这可能会发生。”加快他的计划；因为我相信这是他妻子写的。”一想到她，他就深深地吸了一口气。这封信被重新定向，立即寄给安吉尔。

‘Dear fellow, I hope he will get home safely,’ murmured Mrs Clare. ‘To my dying day I shall feel that he has been ill-used. You should have sent him to Cambridge in spite of his want of faith and given him the same chance as the other boys had. He would have grown out of it under proper influence, and perhaps would have taken Orders after all. Church or no Church, it would have been fairer to him.’
“亲爱的朋友，我希望他能安全回家。”克莱尔夫人低声说道。 “直到我死的那一天，我都会觉得他受到了虐待。尽管他缺乏信仰，你还是应该把他送到剑桥，并给他和其他男孩一样的机会。在适当的影响下，他会逐渐摆脱它，也许最终会接受命令。不管有没有教堂，对他来说都更公平。

This was the only wail with which Mrs Clare ever disturbed her husband’s peace in respect to their sons. And she did not vent this often; for she was as considerate as she was devout, and knew that his mind too was troubled by doubts as to his justice in this matter. Only too often had she heard him lying awake at night, stifling sighs for Angel with prayers. But the uncompromising Evangelical did not even now hold that he would have been justified in giving his son, an unbeliever, the same academic advantages that he had given to the two others, when it was possible, if not probable, that those very advantages might have been used to decry the doctrines which he had made it his life’s mission and desire to propagate, and the mission of his ordained sons likewise. To put with one hand a pedestal under the feet of the two faithful ones, and with the other to exalt the unfaithful by the same artificial means, he deemed to be alike inconsistent with his convictions, his position, and his hopes. Nevertheless, he loved his misnamed Angel, and in secret mourned over this treatment of him as Abraham might have mourned over the doomed Isaac while they went up the hill together. His silent self-generated regrets were far bitterer than the reproaches which his wife rendered audible.
这是克莱尔夫人唯一一次打破她丈夫对儿子的平静的哭声。而且她并不经常这样发泄；因为她既体贴又虔诚，知道他的心也因怀疑他在这件事上的正义而困扰。她常常听到他在夜里彻夜难眠，一边为安吉尔祈祷一边压抑着叹息。但是，这位不妥协的福音派人士甚至现在也不认为，他有理由给予他的儿子（一个不信者）与他给予其他两个人相同的学术优势，而这些优势有可能（如果不是可能的话）被用来谴责他将其作为自己一生的使命和愿望传播的教义，以及他任命的儿子们的使命。他一手把一个基座放在两个忠实的人脚下，另一只手用同样人为的手段来抬举不忠实的人，他认为这同样不符合他的信念、他的立场和他的希望。然而，他爱他那名错误的天使，并暗自为他受到的待遇而哀悼，就像亚伯拉罕在他们一起上山时为注定要灭亡的以撒哀悼一样。他内心的无声悔恨远比妻子大声的责备更痛苦。

They blamed themselves for this unlucky marriage. If Angel had never been destined for a farmer he would never have been thrown with agricultural girls. They did not distinctly know what had separated him and his wife, nor the date on which the separation had taken place. At first they had supposed it must be something of the nature of a serious aversion. But in his later letters he occasionally alluded to the intention of coming home to fetch her; from which expressions they hoped the division might not owe its origin to anything so hopelessly permanent as that. He had told them that she was with her relatives, and in their doubts they had decided not to intrude into a situation which they knew no way of bettering.
他们为这段不幸的婚姻而自责。如果安吉尔从来没有注定要成为一名农民，他就永远不会和农业女孩在一起。他们不清楚是什么使他和他的妻子分开，也不知道分开的日期。起初他们以为这一定是某种严重厌恶的性质。但在后来的信中，他偶尔提到要回家接她。从这些言论中，他们希望分裂的根源不会是这样的、无可救药的永久性的事情。他告诉他们，她和她的亲戚在一起，在怀疑中，他们决定不介入这种他们不知道如何改善的情况。

The eyes for which Tess’s letter was intended were gazing at this time on a limitless expanse of country from the back of a mule which was bearing him from the interior of the South-American Continent towards the coast. His experiences of this strange land had been sad. The severe illness from which he had suffered shortly after his arrival had never wholly left him, and he had by degrees almost decided to relinquish his hope of farming here, though, as long as the bare possibility existed of his remaining, he kept this change of view a secret from his parents.
苔丝写信的目的对象此时正骑着一头骡子，注视着无边无际的田野，这头骡子驮着他从南美大陆腹地向海岸驶去。他在这片陌生土地上的经历是悲伤的。他来后不久遭受的重病从未完全离开他，他几乎决定放弃在这里务农的希望，不过，只要他留下来的可能性微乎其微，他就保留了这一改变。对父母来说是个秘密。

The crowds of agricultural labourers who had come out to the country in his wake, dazzled by representations of easy independence, had suffered, died, and wasted away. He would see mothers from English farms trudging along with their infants in their arms, when the child would be stricken with fever and would die; the mother would pause to dig a hole in the loose earth with her bare hands, would bury the babe therein with the same natural grave-tools, shed one tear, and again trudge on.
跟随他来到乡下的大批农业劳动者，被轻松独立的表现所迷惑，遭受了痛苦、死亡和消瘦。他会看到来自英国农场的母亲们抱着婴儿艰难地前行，而孩子却因发烧而死去。母亲会停下来，徒手在松软的土地上挖一个洞，用同样的天然墓具把婴儿埋在里面，流下一滴眼泪，然后再次艰难前行。

Angel’s original intention had not been emigration to Brazil but a northern or eastern farm in his own country. He had come to this place in a fit of desperation, the Brazil movement among the English agriculturists having by chance coincided with his desire to escape from his past existence.
安吉尔的初衷并不是移民到巴西，而是在自己国家的北部或东部农场。他是在绝望中来到这个地方的，英国农学家中的巴西运动恰逢他想要逃离过去的存在的愿望。

During this time of absence he had mentally aged a dozen years. What arrested him now as of value in life was less its beauty than its pathos. Having long discredited the old systems of mysticism, he now began to discredit the old appraisements of morality. He thought they wanted readjusting. Who was the moral man? Still more pertinently, who was the moral woman? The beauty or ugliness of a character lay not only in its achievements, but in its aims and impulses; its true history lay, not among things done, but among things willed.
在这段时间里，他的心智老了十几岁。现在，吸引他的生命价值与其说是它的美丽，不如说是它的悲怆。他长期以来一直怀疑旧的神秘主义体系，现在开始怀疑旧的道德评价。他认为他们想要重新调整。谁是有道德的人？更重要的是，谁是有道德的女人？一个人物的美丑不仅在于其成就，还在于其目标和冲动。它真正的历史不在于所做的事情，而在于意愿的事情。

How, then, about Tess?
那么苔丝呢？

Viewing her in these lights, a regret for his hasty judgement began to oppress him. Did he reject her eternally, or did he not? He could no longer say that he would always reject her, and not to say that was in spirit to accept her now.
看着她，他开始为自己仓促的判断而感到后悔。他是永远拒绝她，还是没有？他不能再说自己会一直拒绝她，更不能说现在接受她才是精神上的。

This growing fondness for her memory coincided in point of time with her residence at Flintcomb-Ash, but it was before she had felt herself at liberty to trouble him with a word about her circumstances or her feelings. He was greatly perplexed; and in his perplexity as to her motives in withholding intelligence, he did not inquire. Thus her silence of docility was misinterpreted. How much it really said if he had understood!—that she adhered with literal exactness to orders which he had given and forgotten; that despite her natural fearlessness she asserted no rights, admitted his judgement to be in every respect the true one, and bent her head dumbly thereto.
对她的记忆的日益喜爱与她住在弗林特科姆-阿什的时间点相吻合，但那是在她觉得自己可以自由地用她的处境或她的感受来麻烦他之前。他感到非常困惑。由于对她隐瞒情报的动机感到困惑，他没有询问。因此，她的沉默顺从被误解了。如果他能理解的话，这确实说明了多少！——她严格遵守他下达却忘记的命令；尽管她天生无所畏惧，但她并没有主张任何权利，承认他的判断在各个方面都是真实的，并且默默地低下了头。

In the before-mentioned journey by mules through the interior of the country, another man rode beside him. Angel’s companion was also an Englishman, bent on the same errand, though he came from another part of the island. They were both in a state of mental depression, and they spoke of home affairs. Confidence begat confidence. With that curious tendency evinced by men, more especially when in distant lands, to entrust to strangers details of their lives which they would on no account mention to friends, Angel admitted to this man as they rode along the sorrowful facts of his marriage.
在前面提到的骑骡子穿越该国内陆的旅程中，另一个人骑在他旁边。安吉尔的同伴也是一位英国人，尽管他来自岛上的另一个地方，但他也致力于同样的任务。两人都处于精神压抑的状态，聊起了家事。信心产生信心。男人们都表现出一种奇怪的倾向，特别是在遥远的地方，他们会把自己的生活细节托付给陌生人，而他们绝不会向朋友提起，安吉尔在他们沿着这个男人的婚姻的悲伤事实前进时向他承认了。

The stranger had sojourned in many more lands and among many more peoples than Angel; to his cosmopolitan mind such deviations from the social norm, so immense to domesticity, were no more than are the irregularities of vale and mountain-chain to the whole terrestrial curve. He viewed the matter in quite a different light from Angel; thought that what Tess had been was of no importance beside what she would be, and plainly told Clare that he was wrong in coming away from her.
与安吉尔相比，这个陌生人旅居过更多的国家和民族。在他的世界主义思想中，这种对社会规范的偏离对于家庭生活来说是如此巨大，只不过是山谷和山脉对整个陆地曲线的不规则性。他对这件事的看法与安吉尔截然不同。认为苔丝过去的样子并不重要，重要的是她将来会成为什么样的人，并坦率地告诉克莱尔，他离开她是错误的。

The next day they were drenched in a thunder-storm. Angel’s companion was struck down with fever, and died by the week’s end. Clare waited a few hours to bury him, and then went on his way.
第二天，一场雷暴雨让他们浑身湿透。安吉尔的同伴发烧了，并在周末去世。克莱尔等了几个小时埋葬了他，然后继续上路。

The cursory remarks of the large-minded stranger, of whom he knew absolutely nothing beyond a commonplace name, were sublimed by his death, and influenced Clare more than all the reasoned ethics of the philosophers. His own parochialism made him ashamed by its contrast. His inconsistencies rushed upon him in a flood. He had persistently elevated Hellenic Paganism at the expense of Christianity; yet in that civilization an illegal surrender was not certain disesteem. Surely then he might have regarded that abhorrence of the un-intact state, which he had inherited with the creed of mysticism, as at least open to correction when the result was due to treachery. A remorse struck into him. The words of Izz Huett, never quite stilled in his memory, came back to him. He had asked Izz if she loved him, and she had replied in the affirmative. Did she love him more than Tess did? No, she had replied; Tess would lay down her life for him, and she herself could do no more.
这位心胸宽广的陌生人除了一个平凡的名字之外对他一无所知，他的粗略言论因他的去世而升华，对克莱尔的影响超过了所有哲学家的理性伦理学。他自己的狭隘主义让他对这种对比感到羞愧。他的前后矛盾如洪水般涌向他。他坚持以牺牲基督教为代价来提升希腊异教。然而，在那个文明中，非法投降并不一定是一种侮辱。当然，他可能会认为，他以神秘主义信条继承的对不完整状态的憎恶，至少在结果是由于背叛而导致时可以纠正。一种悔恨袭上他的心头。伊兹·休特的话一直萦绕在他的记忆中，他又想起了。他问伊兹是否爱他，她的回答是肯定的。她比苔丝更爱他吗？不，她回答说；不。苔丝愿意为他献出自己的生命，而她自己却无能为力。

He thought of Tess as she had appeared on the day of the wedding. How her eyes had lingered upon him; how she had hung upon his words as if they were a god’s! And during the terrible evening over the hearth, when her simple soul uncovered itself to his, how pitiful her face had looked by the rays of the fire, in her inability to realize that his love and protection could possibly be withdrawn.
他想起了婚礼当天的苔丝。她的目光如何在他身上停留；她多么相信他的话，就好像它们是神的话语一样！在那个可怕的夜晚，在炉边，当她单纯的灵魂向他敞开心扉时，她的脸在火光的照耀下显得多么可怜，她无法意识到他的爱和保护可能会被撤回。

Thus from being her critic he grew to be her advocate. Cynical things he had uttered to himself about her; but no man can be always a cynic and live; and he withdrew them. The mistake of expressing them had arisen from his allowing himself to be influenced by general principles to the disregard of the particular instance.
因此，他从她的批评者成长为她的拥护者。他对自己说过关于她的愤世嫉俗的话；但没有人能永远愤世嫉俗地活着；他就把它们撤回了。表达它们的错误是由于他让自己受到一般原则的影响而忽视了具体情况。

But the reasoning is somewhat musty; lovers and husbands have gone over the ground before to-day. Clare had been harsh towards her; there is no doubt of it. Men are too often harsh with women they love or have loved; women with men. And yet these harshnesses are tenderness itself when compared with the universal harshness out of which they grow; the harshness of the position towards the temperament, of the means towards the aims, of to-day towards yesterday, of hereafter towards to-day.
但其推理有些陈旧。恋人和丈夫在今天之前已经走过了这片土地。克莱尔对她很严厉。毫无疑问。男人常常对他们所爱或曾经爱过的女人很严厉；女人与男人。然而，与它们赖以成长的普遍严酷相比，这些严酷本身就是温柔。对性情的态度、对目标的手段、今天对昨天、以后对今天的严厉态度。

The historic interest of her family—that masterful line of d’Urbervilles—whom he had despised as a spent force, touched his sentiments now. Why had he not known the difference between the political value and the imaginative value of these things? In the latter aspect her d’Urberville descent was a fact of great dimensions; worthless to economics, it was a most useful ingredient to the dreamer, to the moralizer on declines and falls. It was a fact that would soon be forgotten—that bit of distinction in poor Tess’s blood and name, and oblivion would fall upon her hereditary link with the marble monuments and leaded skeletons at Kingsbere. So does Time ruthlessly destroy his own romances. In recalling her face again and again, he thought now that he could see therein a flash of the dignity which must have graced her grand-dames; and the vision sent that aura through his veins which he had formerly felt, and which left behind it a sense of sickness.
她的家族——德伯家的杰出世系——他曾鄙视她的家族，将其视为强弩之末，但现在，她的家族的历史利益触动了他的感情。为什么他不知道这些东西的政治价值和想象价值之间的区别？从后一方面看，她的德伯维尔血统是一个重大事实。对于经济学来说，它毫无价值，但对于梦想家和衰落的说教者来说，它却是最有用的成分。这是一个很快就会被遗忘的事实——可怜的苔丝的血统和名字中的一点区别，以及她与金斯贝尔的大理石纪念碑和铅骷髅的世袭联系，都会被遗忘。时间也无情地摧毁了他自己的爱情。在一遍又一遍地回想起她的脸时，他现在想，他可以在她的脸上看到一丝尊严，这一定是她的贵妇们所特有的。幻象将他以前感受到的那种气息送入了他的血管，留下了一种恶心的感觉。

Despite her not-inviolate past, what still abode in such a woman as Tess outvalued the freshness of her fellows. Was not the gleaning of the grapes of Ephraim better than the vintage of Abiezer?
尽管她的过去不容侵犯，但像苔丝这样的女人身上仍然存在的东西比她同伴的新鲜感更有价值。以法莲所拾取的葡萄岂不是比亚比以谢所拾取的葡萄更好吗？

So spoke love renascent, preparing the way for Tess’s devoted outpouring, which was then just being forwarded to him by his father; though owing to his distance inland it was to be a long time in reaching him.
爱情就这样重生了，为苔丝的倾心倾诉铺平了道路，当时他的父亲刚刚将这一切转发给了他。但由于距离内陆较远，要花很长时间才能到达。

Meanwhile the writer’s expectation that Angel would come in response to the entreaty was alternately great and small. What lessened it was that the facts of her life which had led to the parting had not changed—could never change; and that, if her presence had not attenuated them, her absence could not. Nevertheless she addressed her mind to the tender question of what she could do to please him best if he should arrive. Sighs were expended on the wish that she had taken more notice of the tunes he played on his harp, that she had inquired more curiously of him which were his favourite ballads among those the country-girls sang. She indirectly inquired of Amby Seedling, who had followed Izz from Talbothays, and by chance Amby remembered that, amongst the snatches of melody in which they had indulged at the dairyman’s, to induce the cows to let down their milk, Clare had seemed to like ‘Cupid’s Gardens’, ‘I have parks, I have hounds’, and ‘The break o’ the day”; and had seemed not to care for ‘The Tailor’s Breeches’ and ‘Such a beauty I did grow’, excellent ditties as they were.
与此同时，作者对天使回应恳求的期望时大时小。更重要的是，导致她分手的生活事实没有改变——永远不会改变；如果她的存在没有减弱这些影响，那么她的缺席也不会减弱这些影响。尽管如此，她还是提出了一个温柔的问题：如果他来了，她能做些什么才能最好地取悦他。人们叹了口气，希望她能更多地注意他用竖琴弹奏的曲子，更好地询问他，在乡村姑娘们唱的歌谣中，他最喜欢哪一首。她间接地询问了安比·希德林（Amby Seedling），安比·希德林（Amby Seedling）跟随伊兹（Izz）从塔尔博塞斯（Talbothays）来到这里，偶然间，安比（Amby）想起，在他们在奶牛场沉迷的旋律片段中，克莱尔（Clare）似乎很喜欢用来诱导奶牛流奶的旋律。 “丘比特花园”、“我有公园、我有猎犬”和“一天的休息”；似乎并不关心《裁缝的马裤》和《我长得这么美》这些优秀的小曲。

To perfect the ballads was now her whimsical desire. She practised them privately at odd moments, especially ‘The break o’ the day”:
现在，完善民谣是她异想天开的愿望。她在一些奇怪的时刻私下练习它们，尤其是“Thebreak o’the day”：

Arise, arise, arise!
起来，起来，起​​来！

And pick your love a posy,
并挑选你的爱一束花，

All o’ the sweetest flowers
所有最甜蜜的花朵

That in the garden grow.
花园里生长的那种。

The turtle doves and sma’ birds
斑鸠和小鸟

In every bough a-building,
每一座树枝上都有一座建筑，

So early in the May-time
这么早在五月的时候

At the break o’ the day!
当天休息时！

It would have melted the heart of a stone to hear her singing these ditties whenever she worked apart from the rest of the girls in this cold dry time; the tears running down her cheeks all the while at the thought that perhaps he would not, after all, come to hear her, and the simple silly words of the songs resounding in painful mockery of the aching heart of the singer.
在这个寒冷干燥的时期，每当她和其他女孩分开工作时，听到她唱这些小曲，她的心都会融化。一想到也许他终究不会来听她说话，泪水就一直从她的脸颊上流下来，歌曲中简单愚蠢的歌词在歌手痛苦的心中发出痛苦的嘲讽。

Tess was so wrapt up in this fanciful dream that she seemed not to know how the season was advancing; that the days had lengthened, that Lady-Day was at hand, and would soon be followed by Old Lady-Day, the end of her term here.
苔丝完全沉浸在这个奇幻的梦中，她似乎不知道季节是如何进展的。日子已经变长了，夫人节即将到来，很快就会迎来老夫人节，她在这里的任期即将结束。

But before the quarter-day had quite come, something happened which made Tess think of far different matters. She was at her lodging as usual one evening, sitting in the downstairs room with the rest of the family, when somebody knocked at the door and inquired for Tess. Through the doorway she saw against the declining light a figure with the height of a woman and the breadth of a child, a tall, thin, girlish creature whom she did not recognize in the twilight till the girl said ‘Tess!’
但在四分之一日到来之前，发生了一些事情，让苔丝想到了截然不同的事情。一天晚上，她像往常一样回到住处，和家人一起坐在楼下的房间里，这时有人敲门，询问苔丝的情况。透过门口，她在昏暗的光线下看到了一个女人般高、孩子般宽的身影，一个又高又瘦的少女般的生物，她在暮色中没有认出他，直到女孩喊道“苔丝！”

‘What—is it ‘Liza-Lu?’ asked Tess, in startled accents. Her sister, whom a little over a year ago she had left at home as a child, had sprung up by a sudden shoot to a form of this presentation, of which as yet Lu seemed herself scarce able to understand the meaning. Her thin legs, visible below her once-long frock, now short by her growing, and her uncomfortable hands and arms revealed her youth and inexperience.
“什么——是‘丽莎露’吗？”苔丝用吃惊的口音问道。一年多前，她还是个孩子的时候，她的妹妹就被留在家里，突然间，她就以这种形式出现了，而卢自己似乎还无法理解其中的含义。她的细腿在她曾经很长的连衣裙下面清晰可见，但由于她的成长，现在变得很短，她不舒服的手和手臂暴露了她的年轻和缺乏经验。

‘Yes, I have been traipsing about all day, Tess,’ said Lu, with unemotional gravity, ‘a-trying to find ‘ee; and I’m very tired.’
“是的，苔丝，我一整天都在闲逛，”卢面无表情地严肃地说，“试图找到‘ee’；‘ee’。”我很累。

‘What is the matter at home?’
“家里有什么事吗？”

‘Mother is took very bad, and the doctor says she’s dying, and as father is not very well neither, and says ‘tis wrong for a man of such a high family as his to slave and drave at common labouring work, we don’t know what to do.’
“母亲伤势很重，医生说她快要死了，而父亲也不太好，并说‘像他这样的贵族家庭的男人在普通的劳动中奴役和劳作是错误的，我们不’不知道该怎么办。

Tess stood in reverie a long time before she thought of asking ‘Liza-Lu to come in and sit down. When she had done so, and ‘Liza-Lu was having some tea, she came to a decision. It was imperative that she should go home. Her agreement did not end till Old Lady-Day, the sixth of April, but as the interval thereto was not a long one she resolved to run the risk of starting at once.
苔丝站在原地沉思良久，才想到要请丽莎露进来坐下。当她这样做时，丽莎-鲁正在喝茶，她做出了决定。她必须回家。她的协议直到四月六日老妇人日才结束，但由于间隔时间不长，她决定冒险立即开始。

To go that night would be a gain of twelve-hours; but her sister was too tired to undertake such a distance till the morrow. Tess ran down to where Marian and Izz lived, informed them of what had happened, and begged them to make the best of her case to the farmer. Returning, she got Lu a supper, and after that, having tucked the younger into her own bed, packed up as many of her belongings as would go into a withy basket, and started, directing Lu to follow her next morning.
那天晚上去就可以多十二个小时。但她姐姐太累了，无法在明天之前走这么远的路。苔丝跑到玛丽安和伊兹住的地方，告诉他们发生了什么事，并恳求他们向农夫充分说明她的情况。回来后，她给陆吃了晚饭，然后把小孩子塞进了自己的床上，收拾了尽可能多的东西，装进了一个篮子里，然后出发了，指示陆第二天早上跟着她。

L

She plunged into the chilly equinoctial darkness as the clock struck ten, for her fifteen miles’ walk under the steely stars. In lonely districts night is a protection rather than a danger to a noiseless pedestrian, and knowing this, Tess pursued the nearest course along by-lanes that she would almost have feared in the day-time; but marauders were wanting now, and spectral fears were driven out of her mind by thoughts of her mother. Thus she proceeded mile after mile, ascending and descending till she came to Bulbarrow, and about midnight looked from that height into the abyss of chaotic shade which was all that revealed itself of the vale on whose further side she was born. Having already traversed about five miles on the upland, she had now some ten or eleven in the lowland before her journey would be finished. The winding road downwards became just visible to her under the wan starlight as she followed it, and soon she paced a soil so contrasting with that above it that the difference was perceptible to the tread and to the smell. It was the heavy clay land of Blackmoor Vale, and a part of the Vale to which turnpike-roads had never penetrated. Superstitions linger longest on these heavy soils. Having once been forest, at this shadowy time it seemed to assert something of its old character, the far and the near being blended, and every tree and tall hedge making the most of its presence. The harts that had been hunted here, the witches that had been pricked and ducked, the green-spangled fairies that ‘whickered’ at you as you passed;—the place teemed with beliefs in them still, and they formed an impish multitude now.
当时钟敲响十点时，她陷入了寒冷的春分黑暗中，在钢铁般的星空下行走了十五英里。在偏僻的地区，对于无声无息的行人来说，夜晚是一种保护，而不是一种危险，苔丝知道这一点，便沿着她在白天几乎会害怕的小巷寻找最近的路线；但现在掠夺者已经消失了，对母亲的思念也驱走了她心中的幽灵般的恐惧。就这样，她一英里又一英里地前行，上升又下降，直到到达布尔巴罗，大约午夜时分，她从那个高度望向混乱阴影的深渊，这就是她出生的山谷的另一边。她已经在高地走了大约五英里，现在还要在低地走十到十一英里才能结束旅程。当她顺着它走时，在苍白的星光下，蜿蜒的向下的道路变得清晰可见，很快她就在与上面的土壤形成鲜明对比的土壤上踱步，从脚步和气味上都可以感觉到差异。这是布莱克莫尔谷的厚重粘土地，也是谷地的一部分，收费公路从未贯通。迷信在这些厚重的土壤上存留时间最长。它曾经是森林，在这个阴暗的时刻，它似乎彰显了它古老的特征，远近融为一体，每棵树和高大的树篱都充分利用了它的存在。在这里被猎杀的雄鹿，被刺伤和躲避的女巫，当你经过时向你“叽叽喳喳”地发出绿光的仙女；这个地方仍然充满了对它们的信仰，它们现在形成了一群顽皮的人。

At Nuttlebury she passed the village inn, whose sign creaked in response to the greeting of her footsteps, which not a human soul heard but herself. Under the thatched roofs her mind’s eye beheld relaxed tendons and flaccid muscles, spread out in the darkness beneath coverlets made of little purple patchwork squares, and undergoing a bracing process at the hands of sleep for renewed labour on the morrow, as soon as a hint of pink nebulosity appeared on Hambledon Hill.
在纳特尔伯里，她经过了一家乡村旅馆，旅馆的招牌因她的脚步声而嘎吱作响，除了她自己之外，没有人听到。在茅草屋顶下，她的心灵之眼看到了松弛的肌腱和松弛的肌肉，它们在紫色拼凑而成的小方块床单下的黑暗中展开，并在睡眠的手中经历着支撑过程，以迎接明天的新分娩，只要有一丝暗示。汉布尔登山上出现了粉红色星云。

At three she turned the last corner of the maze of lanes she had threaded, and entered Marlott, passing the field in which as a club-girl she had first seen Angel Clare, when he had not danced with her; the sense of disappointment remained with her yet. In the direction of her mother’s house she saw a light. It came from the bedroom window, and a branch waved in front of it and made it wink at her. As soon as she could discern the outline of the house—newly thatched with her money—it had all its old effect upon Tess’s imagination. Part of her body and life it ever seemed to be; the slope of its dormers, the finish of its gables, the broken courses of brick which topped the chimney, all had something in common with her personal character. A stupefaction had come into these features, to her regard; it meant the illness of her mother.
三点钟，她拐过迷宫般的小巷的最后一个拐角，进入了马洛特，经过了那片田野，她作为一名俱乐部女郎，第一次见到安吉尔·克莱尔，当时他还没有和她跳舞。失望的感觉仍然萦绕在她的心头。在她母亲家的方向，她看到了灯光。它是从卧室的窗户传来的，一根树枝在它面前挥舞着，使它对她眨了眨眼。当她看清房子的轮廓时——用她的钱新盖的——它对苔丝的想象力产生了所有旧的影响。它似乎一直是她身体和生活的一部分；老虎窗的倾斜度、山墙的饰面、烟囱顶上破碎的砖层，都与她的个人性格有一些共同之处。在她看来，这些表情中透着一种惊愕。这意味着她母亲生病了。

She opened the door so softly as to disturb nobody; the lower room was vacant, but the neighbour who was sitting up with her mother came to the top of the stairs, and whispered that Mrs Durbeyfield was no better, though she was sleeping just then. Tess prepared herself a breakfast, and then took her place as nurse in her mother’s chamber.
她开门的动作很轻，没有打扰到任何人。楼下的房间是空的，但和她母亲坐在一起的邻居来到楼梯顶上，低声说德北菲尔德太太的情况也没有好转，尽管她当时正在睡觉。苔丝给自己准备了早餐，然后在母亲的房间里担任护士。

In the morning, when she contemplated the children, they had all a curiously elongated look; although she had been away little more than a year, their growth was astounding; and the necessity of applying herself heart and soul to their needs took her out of her own cares.
早上，当她注视着孩子们时，他们都显得奇怪地拉长了。虽然她离开才一年多一点，但他们的成长却是惊人的。全心全意地满足他们的需要的必要性使她摆脱了自己的忧虑。

Her father’s ill-health was the same indefinite kind, and he sat in his chair as usual. But the day after her arrival he was unusually bright. He had a rational scheme for living, and Tess asked him what it was.
她父亲的健康状况也同样是不确定的，他像往常一样坐在椅子上。但她到来的第二天，他却异常聪明。他有一个合理的生活计划，苔丝问他那是什么。

‘I’m thinking of sending round to all the old antiqueerians in this part of England,’ he said, ‘asking them to subscribe to a fund to maintain me. I’m sure they’d see it as a romantical, artistical, and proper thing to do. They spend lots o’ money in keeping up old ruins, and finding the bones o’ things, and such like; and living remains must be more interesting to ‘em still, if they only knowed of me. Would that somebody would go round and tell ‘em what there is living among ‘em, and they thinking nothing of him! If Pa’son Tringham, who discovered me, had lived, he’d ha’ done it, I’m sure.’
“我正在考虑派人去拜访英格兰这个地区的所有老古董商，”他说，“请他们认购一个基金来维持我的生活。”我相信他们会认为这是一件浪漫的、艺术的、正确的事情。他们花费大量金钱来维护古老的废墟，寻找骨头，等等；如果他们只知道我的话，活着的遗骸对他们来说一定更有趣。要是有人去告诉他们他们中间生活着什么，他们就不会把他放在心上！如果发现我的帕森·特林厄姆还活着，我确信他会做到这一点。

Tess postponed her arguments on this high project till she had grappled with pressing matters in hand, which seemed little improved by her remittances. When indoor necessities had been eased, she turned her attention to external things. It was now the season for planting and sowing; many gardens and allotments of the villagers had already received their spring tillage; but the garden and the allotment of the Durbeyfields were behindhand. She found, to her dismay, that this was owing to their having eaten all the seed potatoes,—that last lapse of the improvident. At the earliest moment she obtained what others she could procure, and in a few days her father was well enough to see to the garden, under Tess’s persuasive efforts: while she herself undertook the allotment-plot which they rented in a field a couple of hundred yards out of the village.
苔丝推迟了对这个重大项目的争论，直到她解决了手头的紧迫问题，而她的汇款似乎并没有改善这一情况。当室内的必需品得到缓解后，她将注意力转向外部事物。现在正是播种的季节。许多花园和村民的田地已经进行了春耕。但德北菲尔德的花园和土地都落后了。令她沮丧的是，她发现这是因为他们吃掉了所有的土豆种——这是最后一次无远见的失误。她在最早的时候就得到了她能得到的东西，几天后，在苔丝的劝说下，她的父亲就康复了，可以照看花园了：而她自己则承担了他们在一块田地里租了几块土地的事情。离村子一百码远。

She liked doing it after the confinement of the sick chamber, where she was not now required by reason of her mother’s improvement. Violent motion relieved thought. The plot of ground was in a high, dry, open enclosure, where there were forty or fifty such pieces, and where labour was at its briskest when the hired labour of the day had ended. Digging began usually at six o’clock and extended indefinitely into the dusk or moonlight. Just now heaps of dead weeds and refuse were burning on many of the plots, the dry weather favouring their combustion.
她喜欢在被关进病房后做这件事，但由于母亲病情好转，现在不再需要她去病房了。剧烈的动作缓解了思绪。这块地位于一个高处、干燥、开放的围场内，那里有四十或五十块这样的木块，当当天的雇佣劳动结束时，那里的劳动最为活跃。挖掘工作通常在六点钟开始，一直持续到黄昏或月光下。刚才，许多地块上堆满了死去的杂草和垃圾，干燥的天气有利于它们的燃烧。

One fine day Tess and ‘Liza-Lu worked on here with their neighbours till the last rays of the sun smote flat upon the white pegs that divided the plots. As soon as twilight succeeded to sunset the flare of the couch-grass and cabbage-stalk fires began to light up the allotments fitfully, their outlines appearing and disappearing under the dense smoke as wafted by the wind. When a fire glowed, banks of smoke, blown level along the ground, would themselves become illuminated to an opaque lustre, screening the workpeople from one another; and the meaning of the ‘pillar of a cloud’, which was a wall by day and a light by night, could be understood.
一个晴朗的一天，苔丝和丽莎鲁与邻居们在这里干活，直到最后一缕阳光照在分隔地块的白色木桩上。暮色一落山，沙发草和卷心菜茎上的火苗就开始断断续续地照亮这片土地，它们的轮廓在风吹来的浓烟下时隐时现。当火燃起时，一排排烟雾沿着地面水平飘散，它们本身就会发出不透明的光泽，将工人彼此隔开； “云柱”的意义是可以理解的，它白天是墙，晚上是光。

As evening thickened, some of the gardening men and women gave over for the night, but the greater number remained to get their planting done, Tess being among them, though she sent her sister home. It was on one of the couch-burning plots that she laboured with her fork, its four shining prongs resounding against the stones and dry clods in little clicks. Sometimes she was completely involved in the smoke of her fire; then it would leave her figure free, irradiated by the brassy glare from the heap. She was oddly dressed to-night, and presented a somewhat staring aspect, her attire being a gown bleached by many washings, with a short black jacket over it, the effect of the whole being that of a wedding and funeral guest in one. The women further back wore white aprons, which, with their pale faces, were all that could be seen of them in the gloom, except when at moments they caught a flash from the flames.
夜幕降临，一些从事园艺的男人和女人们在夜间休息，但更多的人留下来完成他们的种植工作，苔丝也在其中，尽管她送妹妹回家了。她在一块烧沙发的土地上用叉子劳作，叉子的四个闪亮的尖头在石头和干土块上发出轻微的咔哒声。有时她完全沉浸在篝火的烟雾中；然后，她的身影就会自由自在，被那堆黄铜色的光芒照射着。她今天晚上的打扮很奇怪，显得有些凝视，一身洗得发白的长袍，外面套着一件黑色短外套，整体的效果就是一场婚丧嫁娶的宾客合二为一。后面的女人们都穿着白色围裙，在黑暗中只能看到她们苍白的脸，除了偶尔看到火焰的闪光。

Westward, the wiry boughs of the bare thorn hedge which formed the boundary of the field rose against the pale opalescence of the lower sky. Above, Jupiter hung like a full-blown jonquil, so bright as almost to throw a shade. A few small nondescript stars were appearing elsewhere. In the distance a dog barked, and wheels occasionally rattled along the dry road.
向西，光秃秃的荆棘树篱上的硬树枝形成了田野的边界，在低空苍白的乳白色天空的映衬下升起。木星悬在上方，就像一朵盛开的黄水仙，明亮得几乎投下阴影。其他地方出现了一些不起眼的小星星。远处传来狗的叫声，干燥的道路上车轮偶尔发出嘎嘎声。

Still the prongs continued to click assiduously, for it was not late; and though the air was fresh and keen there was a whisper of spring in it that cheered the workers on. Something in the place, the hours, the crackling fires, the fantastic mysteries of light and shade, made others as well as Tess enjoy being there. Nightfall, which in the frost of winter comes as a fiend and in the warmth of summer as a lover, came as a tranquillizer on this March day.
尽管如此，尖头仍继续孜孜不倦地发出咔嗒声，因为还不算晚。尽管空气清新、清新，但其中却充满了春天的气息，让工人们欢呼雀跃。这个地方的某些东西、时间、噼啪作响的火光、光与影的奇妙奥秘，让其他人和苔丝都喜欢呆在那里。夜幕降临，在寒冷的冬天像恶魔，在温暖的夏天像情人，在这个三月的日子里像镇静剂一样降临。

Nobody looked at his or her companions. The eyes of all were on the soil as its turned surface was revealed by the fires. Hence as Tess stirred the clods and sang her foolish little songs with scarce now a hope that Clare would ever hear them, she did not for a long time notice the person who worked nearest to her—a man in a long smockfrock who, she found, was forking the same plot as herself, and whom she supposed her father had sent there to advance the work. She became more conscious of him when the direction of his digging brought him closer. Sometimes the smoke divided them; then it swerved, and the two were visible to each other but divided from all the rest.
没有人看他或她的同伴。所有人的目光都集中在地面上，地面被火焰显露出来。因此，当苔丝搅拌着土块，唱着她愚蠢的小歌时，几乎不希望克莱尔能听到它们，她很长一段时间都没有注意到离她最近的工作人员——一个穿着长罩衫的男人，她发现他，正在分叉与她自己相同的情节，她认为她父亲派她去那里推进工作。当他挖掘的方向越来越近时，她变得更加意识到他。有时烟雾将他们分开；有时烟雾将他们分开。然后它突然转向，两人彼此可见，但又与其他人分开。

Tess did not speak to her fellow-worker, nor did he speak to her. Nor did she think of him further than to recollect that he had not been there when it was broad daylight, and that she did not know him as any one of the Marlott labourers, which was no wonder, her absences having been so long and frequent of late years. By-and-by he dug so close to her that the fire-beams were reflected as distinctly from the steel prongs of his fork as from her own. On going up to the fire to throw a pitch of dead weeds upon it, she found that he did the same on the other side. The fire flared up, and she beheld the face of d’Urberville.
苔丝没有和她的同事说话，他也没有和她说话。她也没有想到他更多，只是想起他在光天化日之下并不在那儿，而且她不知道他是马洛特工人中的任何一位，这并不奇怪，她缺席的时间如此之长，如此频繁近几年来。渐渐地，他挖得离她很近，火光从他叉子的钢叉上反射出来，就像从她自己的叉子上反射出来的一样清楚。当她走到火边，往火堆上撒上一片枯死的杂草时，她发现他在另一边也做了同样的事。火焰熊熊燃烧，她看到了德伯维尔的脸。

The unexpectedness of his presence, the grotesqueness of his appearance in a gathered smockfrock, such as was now worn only by the most old-fashioned of the labourers, had a ghastly comicality that chilled her as to its bearing. D’Urberville emitted a low, long laugh.
他的出现出人意料，他穿着一件褶皱罩衫，现在只有最老式的工人才穿这种罩衫，样子怪诞，有一种可怕的滑稽感，让她感到不寒而栗。德伯维尔发出一声低沉的长笑。

‘If I were inclined to joke, I should say, How much this seems like Paradise!’ he remarked whimsically, looking at her with an inclined head.
“如果我想开玩笑，我会说，这看起来多么像天堂啊！”他歪着头看着她，异想天开地说。

‘What do you say?’ she weakly asked.
“你说什么？”她弱弱地问道。

‘A jester might say this is just like Paradise. You are Eve, and I am the old Other One come to tempt you in the disguise of an inferior animal. I used to be quite up in that scene of Milton’s when I was theological. Some of it goes—
“小丑可能会说这就像天堂一样。你是夏娃，而我是旧的另一者，伪装成低等动物来诱惑你。当我读神学时，我对弥尔顿的那个场景感到很兴奋。其中一些是——

‘‘Empress, the way is ready, and not long,
“皇后，道路已经准备好了，而且时间不长，

Beyond a row of myrtles...
越过一排香桃木……

... If thou accept
...如果你接受

My conduct, I can bring thee thither soon.’
我的行为，我很快就能带你到那里。

‘Lead then,’ said Eve.
“那就带路吧，”夏娃说。

‘And so on. My dear Tess, I am only putting this to you as a thing that you might have supposed or said quite untruly, because you think so badly of me.’
'等等。我亲爱的苔丝，我只是把这件事告诉你，因为你可能认为或说得很不真实，因为你对我的评价太差了。

‘I never said you were Satan, or thought it. I don’t think of you in that way at all. My thoughts of you are quite cold, except when you affront me. What, did you come digging here entirely because of me?’
“我从来没有说过你是撒旦，也没有这么想过。我根本不那样想你。我对你的想法很冷淡，除非你冒犯了我。什么，你来这里挖洞完全是为了我吗？

‘Entirely. To see you; nothing more. The smockfrock, which I saw hanging for sale as I came along, was an afterthought, that I mightn’t be noticed. I come to protest against your working like this.’
'完全。为了见你;而已。我来的时候看到挂着出售的那件罩衫，那是我后来才想到的，因为我可能不会被注意到。我是来抗议你这样工作的。

‘But I like doing it—it is for my father.’
“但我喜欢这样做——这是为了我的父亲。”

‘Your engagement at the other place is ended?’
“你们在异地的婚约结束了？”

‘Yes.’
'是的。'

‘Where are you going to next? To join your dear husband?’
‘接下来你要去哪里？去见你亲爱的丈夫吗？

She could not bear the humiliating reminder.
她无法忍受这种屈辱的提醒。

‘O—I don’t know!’ she said bitterly. ‘I have no husband!’
“噢——我不知道！”她痛苦地说。 “我没有丈夫！”

‘It is quite true—in the sense you mean. But you have a friend, and I have determined that you shall be comfortable in spite of yourself. When you get down to your house you will see what I have sent there for you.’
“确实如此——就你的意思而言。但你有一个朋友，我决定让你不由自主地感到舒服。当你回到家时，你会看到我给你寄来的东西。

‘O, Alec, I wish you wouldn’t give me anything at all! I cannot take it from you! I don’t like—it is not right!’
‘哦，亚历克，我希望你什么也不给我！我不能把它从你手中夺走！我不喜欢——这是不对的！”

‘It IS right!’ he cried lightly. ‘I am not going to see a woman whom I feel so tenderly for as I do for you in trouble without trying to help her.’
“这是对的！”他轻声喊道。 “我不会看到一个我对你如此温柔的女人遇到麻烦而不去帮助她。”

‘But I am very well off! I am only in trouble about—about—not about living at all!’
‘但是我的条件很好啊！我只是为——关于——而不是为生活而烦恼！”

She turned, and desperately resumed her digging, tears dripping upon the fork-handle and upon the clods.
她转过身，绝望地继续挖掘，泪水滴在叉柄和土块上。

‘About the children—your brothers and sisters,’ he resumed. ‘I’ve been thinking of them.’
“关于孩子们——你的兄弟姐妹，”他继续说道。 “我一直在想他们。”

Tess’s heart quivered—he was touching her in a weak place. He had divined her chief anxiety. Since returning home her soul had gone out to those children with an affection that was passionate.
苔丝的心颤抖起来——他触碰了她的脆弱部位。他猜出了她主要的焦虑。自从回到家后，她的灵魂就带着一种热烈的感情来到了那些孩子们身上。

‘If your mother does not recover, somebody ought to do something for them; since your father will not be able to do much, I suppose?’
“如果你的母亲没有康复，就应该有人为他们做点什么；我想，因为你父亲无能为力吧？

‘He can with my assistance. He must!’
“在我的帮助下他可以。他必须！'

‘And with mine.’
“还有我的。”

‘No, sir!’
'不，先生！'

‘How damned foolish this is!’ burst out d’Urberville. ‘Why, he thinks we are the same family; and will be quite satisfied!’
“这真是太愚蠢了！”德伯维尔大声说道。 ‘为什么，他认为我们是一家人；并且会非常满意！

‘He don’t. I’ve undeceived him.’
“他不知道。”我没有欺骗他。

‘The more fool you!’
“越骗你！”

D’Urberville in anger retreated from her to the hedge, where he pulled off the long smockfrock which had disguised him; and rolling it up and pushing it into the couch-fire, went away.
德伯维尔愤怒地从她身边退到树篱上，在那里他脱下了伪装自己的长罩衫。然后把它卷起来，推入沙发火里，就走了。

Tess could not get on with her digging after this; she felt restless; she wondered if he had gone back to her father’s house; and taking the fork in her hand proceeded homewards.
此后，苔丝无法继续挖掘。她感到焦躁不安；她想知道他是否回到了她父亲的家；她手里拿着叉子，向家走去。

Some twenty yards from the house she was met by one of her sisters.
距离房子大约二十码的地方，她的一位姐妹遇见了她。

‘O, Tessy—what do you think! ‘Liza-Lu is a-crying, and there’s a lot of folk in the house, and mother is a good deal better, but they think father is dead!’
‘哦，泰西——你觉得怎么样！ “丽莎-鲁在哭，家里有很多人，母亲好多了，但他们认为父亲死了！”

The child realized the grandeur of the news; but not as yet its sadness, and stood looking at Tess with round-eyed importance till, beholding the effect produced upon her, she said—
孩子意识到了这个消息的重大意义。但还没有悲伤，她站在那里，睁大眼睛，严肃地看着苔丝，直到看到对她产生的影响，她说——

‘What, Tess, shan’t we talk to father never no more?’
“怎么，苔丝，我们不能再和父亲说话了吗？”

‘But father was only a little bit ill!’ exclaimed Tess distractedly.
“可是父亲只是病了一点而已！”苔丝心不在焉地喊道。

‘Liza-Lu came up.
'丽莎-卢过来了。

‘He dropped down just now, and the doctor who was there for mother said there was no chance for him, because his heart was growed in.’
“他刚刚倒下了，照顾母亲的医生说他没有机会了，因为他的心脏已经长出来了。”

Yes; the Durbeyfield couple had changed places; the dying one was out of danger, and the indisposed one was dead. The news meant even more than it sounded. Her father’s life had a value apart from his personal achievements, or perhaps it would not have had much. It was the last of the three lives for whose duration the house and premises were held under a lease; and it had long been coveted by the tenant-farmer for his regular labourers, who were stinted in cottage accommodation. Moreover, ‘liviers’ were disapproved of in villages almost as much as little freeholders, because of their independence of manner, and when a lease determined it was never renewed.
是的;德北菲尔德夫妇换了地方；临终者已脱离危险，不适者已死。这个消息的意义比听起来更重要。她父亲的一生除了个人成就之外还有其价值，或者也许没有多大价值。这是房屋和房屋以租约形式持有的三人中的最后一人。长期以来，佃农一直渴望得到这样的土地，因为他们的固定劳工在小屋里的住宿条件很有限。此外，“地主”在村庄里几乎和小自耕农一样不受欢迎，因为他们的行为独立，而且一旦租约确定，就永远不会续签。

Thus the Durbeyfields, once d’Urbervilles, saw descending upon them the destiny which, no doubt, when they were among the Olympians of the county, they had caused to descend many a time, and severely enough, upon the heads of such landless ones as they themselves were now. So do flux and reflux—the rhythm of change—alternate and persist in everything under the sky.
因此，曾经的德伯维尔家族的德北菲尔德一家，看到了命运降临在他们身上，毫无疑问，当他们成为该郡的奥林匹亚人时，他们曾多次、而且足够严重地降临在这些无地者的头上。就像他们现在一样。因此，流动和回流——变化的节奏——在天空下的一切事物中交替并持续。

LI

At length it was the eve of Old Lady-Day, and the agricultural world was in a fever of mobility such as only occurs at that particular date of the year. It is a day of fulfilment; agreements for outdoor service during the ensuing year, entered into at Candlemas, are to be now carried out. The labourers—or ‘work-folk’, as they used to call themselves immemorially till the other word was introduced from without—who wish to remain no longer in old places are removing to the new farms.
终于到了老妇人节的前夕，农业世界正处于流动热潮中，这种情况只有在一年中的那个特定日期才会发生。这是一个实现的日子；在圣烛节上签订的来年户外服务协议现已开始执行。那些希望不再留在老地方的劳动者——或者“工人”，他们自古以来就这样称呼自己，直到另一个词从外部引入为止——他们希望不再留在老地方，正在搬到新农场。

These annual migrations from farm to farm were on the increase here. When Tess’s mother was a child the majority of the field-folk about Marlott had remained all their lives on one farm, which had been the home also of their fathers and grandfathers; but latterly the desire for yearly removal had risen to a high pitch. With the younger families it was a pleasant excitement which might possibly be an advantage. The Egypt of one family was the Land of Promise to the family who saw it from a distance, till by residence there it became it turn their Egypt also; and so they changed and changed.
每年从一个农场到另一个农场的迁徙在这里都在增加。当苔丝的母亲还是个孩子的时候，马洛特周围的大多数田野居民都终生生活在一个农场里，那里也是他们父亲和祖父的家。但后来每年搬迁的愿望已经达到了顶峰。对于年轻的家庭来说，这是一种令人愉快的兴奋，这可能是一个优势。一个家庭的埃及对于那些从远处看到它的家庭来说是应许之地，直到居住在那里，它也变成了他们的埃及；所以他们变了又变。

However, all the mutations so increasingly discernible in village life did not originate entirely in the agricultural unrest. A depopulation was also going on. The village had formerly contained, side by side with the argicultural labourers, an interesting and better-informed class, ranking distinctly above the former—the class to which Tess’s father and mother had belonged—and including the carpenter, the smith, the shoemaker, the huckster, together with nondescript workers other than farm-labourers; a set of people who owed a certain stability of aim and conduct to the fact of their being lifeholders like Tess’s father, or copyholders, or occasionally, small freeholders. But as the long holdings fell in, they were seldom again let to similar tenants, and were mostly pulled down, if not absolutely required by the farmer for his hands. Cottagers who were not directly employed on the land were looked upon with disfavour, and the banishment of some starved the trade of others, who were thus obliged to follow. These families, who had formed the backbone of the village life in the past, who were the depositaries of the village traditions, had to seek refuge in the large centres; the process, humorously designated by statisticians as ‘the tendency of the rural population towards the large towns’, being really the tendency of water to flow uphill when forced by machinery.
然而，乡村生活中日益明显的所有突变并不完全源于农业动乱。人口减少也在发生。这个村庄以前与农业劳动者并存的是一个有趣且消息灵通的阶级，其地位明显高于前者——苔丝的父亲和母亲所属的阶级——包括木匠、铁匠、鞋匠、小贩，以及农场工人以外的不起眼的工人；一群人的目标和行为具有一定的稳定性，因为他们像苔丝的父亲一样是终生所有者，或者是版权所有者，或者偶尔是小型自由所有者。但随着长期持有的土地消失，它们很少再出租给类似的佃户，而且大部分都被拆掉了，即使不是农民绝对需要的。不直接在这片土地上工作的佃农受到不待见，一些人的驱逐导致其他人的贸易挨饿，因此其他人也不得不效仿。这些家庭过去是乡村生活的支柱，是乡村传统的保存者，现在不得不到大型中心寻求庇护。这个过程被统计学家幽默地称为“农村人口向大城市发展的趋势”，实际上是水在机械的推动下流向高处的趋势。

The cottage accommodation at Marlott having been in this manner considerably curtailed by demolitions, every house which remained standing was required by the agriculturist for his work-people. Ever since the occurrence of the event which had cast such a shadow over Tess’s life, the Durbeyfield family (whose descent was not credited) had been tacitly looked on as one which would have to go when their lease ended, if only in the interests of morality. It was, indeed, quite true that the household had not been shining examples either of temperance, soberness, or chastity. The father, and even the mother, had got drunk at times, the younger children seldom had gone to church, and the eldest daughter had made queer unions. By some means the village had to be kept pure. So on this, the first Lady-Day on which the Durbeyfields were expellable, the house, being roomy, was required for a carter with a large family; and Widow Joan, her daughters Tess and ‘Liza-Lu, the boy Abraham, and the younger children had to go elsewhere.
马洛特的小屋住宿因拆除而大大减少，农学家需要为他的工人提供每一栋幸存的房屋。自从那件给苔丝的生活蒙上阴影的事件发生以来，德北菲尔德家族（其血统没有被记入）就被默认为在租约结束时必须离开的家族，哪怕只是为了利益。道德。确实，这个家庭在节制、节制或贞洁方面都不是光辉的榜样。父亲，甚至母亲，有时都会喝醉，年幼的孩子们很少去教堂，而大女儿则结下了奇怪的婚姻。必须通过某种方式保持村庄的纯净。因此，在第一个女士日，德北菲尔德一家被驱逐，房子宽敞，需要一个大家庭的卡特。寡妇琼、她的女儿苔丝和丽莎鲁、男孩亚伯拉罕以及年幼的孩子们不得不去别处。

On the evening preceding their removal it was getting dark betimes by reason of a drizzling rain which blurred the sky. As it was the last night they would spend in the village which had been their home and birthplace, Mrs Durbeyfield, ‘Liza-Lu, and Abraham had gone out to bid some friends goodbye, and Tess was keeping house till they should return.
他们搬走的前一天晚上，天色很早就黑了，因为下着毛毛细雨，天空变得模糊不清。由于这是他们在曾经的家乡和出生地的村庄里度过的最后一晚，德北菲尔德夫人、丽莎-鲁和亚伯拉罕出去向一些朋友告别，苔丝负责看家，直到他们回来。

She was kneeling in the window-bench, her face close to the casement, where an outer pane of rain-water was sliding down the inner pane of glass. Her eyes rested on the web of a spider, probably starved long ago, which had been mistakenly placed in a corner where no flies ever came, and shivered in the slight draught through the casement. Tess was reflecting on the position of the household, in which she perceived her own evil influence. Had she not come home, her mother and the children might probably have been allowed to stay on as weekly tenants. But she had been observed almost immediately on her return by some people of scrupulous character and great influence: they had seen her idling in the churchyard, restoring as well as she could with a little trowel a baby’s obliterated grave. By this means they had found that she was living here again; her mother was scolded for ‘harbouring’ her; sharp retorts had ensued from Joan, who had independently offered to leave at once; she had been taken at her word; and here was the result.
她跪在窗边的长凳上，脸靠近窗户，外面的雨水正从里面的玻璃上滑下来。她的目光停留在一张蜘蛛网上，它可能早就饿死了，被错误地放在一个苍蝇从来没有来过的角落里，在窗扉吹过的微风中瑟瑟发抖。苔丝正在反思家庭的地位，她在其中看到了自己的邪恶影响。如果她不回家，她的母亲和孩子们可能会被允许作为每周租户留下来。但她一回来，几乎立刻就被一些性格谨慎、影响力大的人发现了：他们看到她在教堂墓地闲逛，用小抹子尽可能地修复婴儿被毁掉的坟墓。通过这种方式，他们发现她又住在这里了；她的母亲因“窝藏”她而被骂；琼提出了立即离开的强烈反驳。她的话被相信了。结果就是这样。

‘I ought never to have come home,’ said Tess to herself, bitterly.
“我根本不应该回家。”苔丝痛苦地自言自语道。

She was so intent upon these thoughts that she hardly at first took note of a man in a white mackintosh whom she saw riding down the street. Possibly it was owing to her face being near to the pane that he saw her so quickly, and directed his horse so close to the cottage-front that his hoofs were almost upon the narrow border for plants growing under the wall. It was not till he touched the window with his riding-crop that she observed him. The rain had nearly ceased, and she opened the casement in obedience to his gesture.
她全神贯注于这些想法，一开始几乎没有注意到她看到一个穿着白色雨衣的男人在街上骑马。可能是因为她的脸靠近窗玻璃，他才这么快就看到了她，并指挥他的马如此靠近小屋的前面，以至于他的蹄子几乎踩到了墙下生长的植物的狭窄边缘。直到他用马鞭碰了碰窗户，她才注意到他。雨几乎停了，她按照他的手势打开了窗子。

‘Didn’t you see me?’ asked d’Urberville.
“你没看到我吗？”德伯维尔问道。

‘I was not attending,’ she said. ‘I heard you, I believe, though I fancied it was a carriage and horses. I was in a sort of dream.’
“我没有参加，”她说。 “我相信，我听到了你的声音，尽管我以为那是一辆马车和马匹。我好像在做梦。”

‘Ah! you heard the d’Urberville Coach, perhaps. You know the legend, I suppose?’
'啊！也许你听说过德伯维尔马车。我想你知道这个传说吗？

‘No. My—somebody was going to tell it me once, but didn’t.’
'不。我的——有人本来想告诉我一次，但没有。

‘If you are a genuine d’Urberville I ought not to tell you either, I suppose. As for me, I’m a sham one, so it doesn’t matter. It is rather dismal. It is that this sound of a non-existent coach can only be heard by one of d’Urberville blood, and it is held to be of ill-omen to the one who hears it. It has to do with a murder, committed by one of the family, centuries ago.’
“如果你是真正的德伯维尔人，我想我也不应该告诉你。至于我，我是个假人，所以没关系。这是相当惨淡的。这是一种不存在的马车发出的声音，只有德伯维尔血统的人才能听到，而且对于听到它的人来说，这被认为是不祥之兆。这与几个世纪前家族中的一个人犯下的一起谋杀案有关。”

‘Now you have begun it, finish it.’
“现在你已经开始了，完成它吧。”

‘Very well. One of the family is said to have abducted some beautiful woman, who tried to escape from the coach in which he was carrying her off, and in the struggle he killed her—or she killed him—I forget which. Such is one version of the tale... I see that your tubs and buckets are packed. Going away, aren’t you?’
'很好。据说其中一个家庭绑架了一位美丽的女人，她试图从他带走她的马车上逃脱，在挣扎中他杀了她——或者她杀了他——我忘记了。这是故事的一个版本……我看到你的浴缸和水桶都装满了。你要走吗？

‘Yes, to-morrow—Old Lady Day.’
“是的，明天——老太太节。”

‘I heard you were, but could hardly believe it; it seems so sudden. Why is it?’
“我听说你是，但简直不敢相信；看起来很突然。为什么？'

‘Father’s was the last life on the property, and when that dropped we had no further right to stay. Though we might, perhaps, have stayed as weekly tenants—if it had not been for me.’
“父亲是这片土地上的最后一个生命，当它消失时，我们就没有再留下来的权利了。”如果没有我的话，我们也许会继续作为每周租户。

‘What about you?’
'你呢？'

‘I am not a—proper woman.’
“我不是一个——正派的女人。”

D’Urberville’s face flushed.
德伯维尔的脸涨得通红。

‘What a blasted shame! Miserable snobs! May their dirty souls be burnt to cinders!’ he exclaimed in tones of ironic resentment. ‘That’s why you are going, is it? Turned out?’
‘真是太丢人了！可悲的势利小人！愿他们肮脏的灵魂被烧成灰烬！”他用讽刺的怨恨的语气喊道。 ‘这就是你要去的原因，是吗？结果是？'

‘We are not turned out exactly; but as they said we should have to go soon, it was best to go now everybody was moving, because there are better chances.’
‘我们的结果并不完全一样；但正如他们所说，我们应该尽快离开，最好现在每个人都在搬家，因为有更好的机会。”

‘Where are you going to?’
'你去哪儿？'

‘Kingsbere. We have taken rooms there. Mother is so foolish about father’s people that she will go there.’
‘金斯贝尔。我们在那里订了房间。母亲对父亲的人太愚蠢了，她会去那里。

‘But your mother’s family are not fit for lodgings, and in a little hole of a town like that. Now why not come to my garden-house at Trantridge? There are hardly any poultry now, since my mother’s death; but there’s the house, as you know it, and the garden. It can be whitewashed in a day, and your mother can live there quite comfortably; and I will put the children to a good school. Really I ought to do something for you!’
“但是你母亲的家人不适合住宿，而且住在那样的小镇的一个小洞里。现在为什么不来我在特兰特里奇的花园别墅呢？自从我母亲去世后，现在几乎没有家禽了。但正如你所知，这里有房子，还有花园。一天就可以粉刷干净，你妈妈住在那里也很舒服；我会让孩子们去一所好学校。我真的应该为你做点什么！

‘But we have already taken the rooms at Kingsbere!’ she declared. ‘And we can wait there—‘
“但我们已经租下了金斯贝尔的房间了！”她宣称。 “我们可以在那里等——”

‘Wait—what for? For that nice husband, no doubt. Now look here, Tess, I know what men are, and, bearing in mind the grounds of your separation, I am quite positive he will never make it up with you. Now, though I have been your enemy, I am your friend, even if you won’t believe it. Come to this cottage of mine. We’ll get up a regular colony of fowls, and your mother can attend to them excellently; and the children can go to school.’
‘等等——为什么？毫无疑问，是为了那个好丈夫。现在听着，苔丝，我知道男人是什么，而且，考虑到你们分手的原因，我非常肯定他永远不会和你复合。现在，虽然我一直是你的敌人，但我是你的朋友，即使你不相信。来我的这间小屋吧。我们会建立一个固定的鸡群，你妈妈可以很好地照顾它们；孩子们可以去上学了。

Tess breathed more and more quickly, and at length she said—
苔丝的呼吸越来越急促，最后她说道——

‘How do I know that you would do all this? Your views may change—and then—we should be—my mother would be—homeless again.’
‘我怎么知道你会做这一切？你的观点可能会改变——然后——我们应该——我母亲就会——再次无家可归。

‘O no—no. I would guarantee you against such as that in writing, if necessary. Think it over.’
‘噢，不——不。如有必要，我会以书面形式向您保证不会出现此类情况。想一想。'

Tess shook her head. But d’Urberville persisted; she had seldom seen him so determined; he would not take a negative.
苔丝摇摇头。但德伯维尔坚持了下来。她很少见到他如此坚决。他不会接受否定。

‘Please just tell your mother,’ he said, in emphatic tones. ‘It is her business to judge—not yours. I shall get the house swept out and whitened to-morrow morning, and fires lit; and it will be dry by the evening, so that you can come straight there. Now mind, I shall expect you.’
“请告诉你妈妈，”他用强调的语气说道。 ‘评判是她的事，而不是你的事。明天早上我会把房子打扫干净，把房子刷白，然后生火。到了晚上天就会干了，这样你就可以直接到那里了。现在请注意，我会等你。

Tess again shook her head, her throat swelling with complicated emotion. She could not look up at d’Urberville.
苔丝再次摇摇头，喉咙里充满了复杂的情绪。她无法抬头看德伯维尔。

‘I owe you something for the past, you know,’ he resumed. ‘And you cured me, too, of that craze; so I am glad—‘
“你知道，我过去欠你一些东西，”他继续说道。 “你也治愈了我的那种狂热；所以我很高兴——”

‘I would rather you had kept the craze, so that you had kept the practice which went with it!’
“我宁愿你保持这种热潮，这样你就可以保持与之相伴的实践！”

‘I am glad of this opportunity of repaying you a little. To-morrow I shall expect to hear your mother’s goods unloading... Give me your hand on it now—dear, beautiful Tess!’
‘我很高兴有这个机会报答你一点。明天我预计会听到你母亲的货物卸货的声音……现在把手伸给我——亲爱的、美丽的苔丝！

With the last sentence he had dropped his voice to a murmur, and put his hand in at the half-open casement. With stormy eyes she pulled the stay-bar quickly, and, in doing so, caught his arm between the casement and the stone mullion.
说完最后一句话，他压低了声音，把手伸进了半开的窗扉。她眼神暴躁，迅速拉动拉杆，这样，他的手臂就被夹在了窗扉和石棂之间。

‘Damnation—you are very cruel!’ he said, snatching out his arm. ‘No, no!—I know you didn’t do it on purpose. Well I shall expect you, or your mother and children at least.’
“该死——你太残忍了！”他说着，抽出了自己的手臂。 “不，不！——我知道你不是故意的。好吧，我会期待你，或者至少是你的母亲和孩子们。

‘I shall not come—I have plenty of money!’ she cried.
“我不会来——我有很多钱！”她喊道。

‘Where?’
'在哪里？'

‘At my father-in-law’s, if I ask for it.’
“如果我要求的话，就去我岳父那里。”

‘IF you ask for it. But you won’t, Tess; I know you; you’ll never ask for it—you’ll starve first!’
‘如果你要求的话。但你不会的，苔丝；我认识你;你永远不会要求它——你会先挨饿！

With these words he rode off. Just at the corner of the street he met the man with the paint-pot, who asked him if he had deserted the brethren.
说完他就策马走了。就在街角，他遇到了那个拿着油漆桶的人，他问他是否抛弃了弟兄们。

‘You go to the devil!’ said d’Urberville.
“你见鬼去吧！”德伯维尔说。

Tess remained where she was a long while, till a sudden rebellious sense of injustice caused the region of her eyes to swell with the rush of hot tears thither. Her husband, Angel Clare himself, had, like others, dealt out hard measure to her; surely he had! She had never before admitted such a thought; but he had surely! Never in her life—she could swear it from the bottom of her soul—had she ever intended to do wrong; yet these hard judgements had come. Whatever her sins, they were not sins of intention, but of inadvertence, and why should she have been punished so persistently?
苔丝在原地呆了很长一段时间，直到一种突如其来的反抗感，让她的眼眶因滚烫的泪水而肿胀。她的丈夫，安吉尔·克莱尔本人，和其他人一样，对她采取了严厉的措施。他当然有！她以前从未承认过这样的想法。但他确实有！在她的一生中——她可以从心底发誓——她从来没有想过做错事；她从来没有想过做错事。然而这些艰难的判断已经到来。无论她犯了什么罪，都不是故意的，而是无意的，为什么要受到如此严厉的惩罚？

She passionately seized the first piece of paper that came to hand, and scribbled the following lines:
她激动地抓起手上的第一张纸，潦草地写下了这样几行字：

O why have you treated me so monstrously, Angel! I do not deserve it. I have thought it all over carefully, and I can never, never forgive you! You know that I did not intend to wrong you—why have you so wronged me? You are cruel, cruel indeed! I will try to forget you. It is all injustice I have received at your hands!
哦，你为什么要如此残忍地对待我，天使！我不配拥有它。我仔细想了想，我绝对绝对不会原谅你！你明知道我无意冤枉你，你为何如此冤枉我？你太残忍了，真的太残忍了！我会努力忘记你。这都是我在你们手里受到的不公！


T.

She watched till the postman passed by, ran out to him with her epistle, and then again took her listless place inside the window-panes.
她看着邮递员走过，拿着信跑到他面前，然后又无精打采地坐在窗玻璃里。

It was just as well to write like that as to write tenderly. How could he give way to entreaty? The facts had not changed: there was no new event to alter his opinion.
这样写和写温柔一样好。他怎能屈服于恳求？事实并没有改变：没有新的事件改变他的观点。

It grew darker, the fire-light shining over the room. The two biggest of the younger children had gone out with their mother; the four smallest, their ages ranging from three-and-a-half years to eleven, all in black frocks, were gathered round the hearth babbling their own little subjects. Tess at length joined them, without lighting a candle.
天色越来越暗，火光照亮了房间。两个最大的孩子和他们的母亲一起出去了。四个最小的孩子，年龄从三岁半到十一岁不等，都穿着黑色连衣裙，聚集在壁炉旁，叽叽喳喳地说着自己的小话题。苔丝最终加入了他们，但没有点蜡烛。

‘This is the last night that we shall sleep here, dears, in the house where we were born,’ she said quickly. ‘We ought to think of it, oughtn’t we?’
“亲爱的，这是我们在我们出生的房子里睡的最后一晚，”她很快说道。 “我们应该考虑一下，不是吗？”

They all became silent; with the impressibility of their age they were ready to burst into tears at the picture of finality she had conjured up, though all the day hitherto they had been rejoicing in the idea of a new place. Tess changed the subject.
他们全都沉默了。由于他们这个年纪的印象深刻，他们准备为她所想象的最终画面而流泪，尽管迄今为止他们整天都在为一个新地方的想法而欢欣鼓舞。苔丝改变了话题。

‘Sing to me, dears,’ she said.
“亲爱的，给我唱歌吧，”她说。

‘What shall we sing?’
“我们唱什么歌？”

‘Anything you know; I don’t mind.’
‘你知道的任何事；我不介意。

There was a momentary pause; it was broken, first, in one little tentative note; then a second voice strengthened it, and a third and a fourth chimed in unison, with words they had learnt at the Sunday-school—
短暂的停顿。首先，它被一个小小的试探性的音符打破了；然后第二个声音加强了它，第三个和第四个声音齐声附和，用他们在主日学校学到的单词——

Here we suffer grief and pain,
我们在这里承受悲伤和痛苦，

Here we meet to part again;
在这里我们又相遇又分离；

 In Heaven we part no more.
在天堂我们不再分离。

The four sang on with the phlegmatic passivity of persons who had long ago settled the question, and there being no mistake about it, felt that further thought was not required. With features strained hard to enunciate the syllables they continued to regard the centre of the flickering fire, the notes of the youngest straying over into the pauses of the rest.
四人继续唱着，一副早已解决了问题的人的冷漠被动态度，这件事没有错，觉得不需要进一步思考。他们面容紧张，难以说出音节，但仍注视着闪烁的火光的中心，最小的孩子的音符误入了其他人的停顿之中。

Tess turned from them, and went to the window again. Darkness had now fallen without, but she put her face to the pane as though to peer into the gloom. It was really to hide her tears. If she could only believe what the children were singing; if she were only sure, how different all would now be; how confidently she would leave them to Providence and their future kingdom! But, in default of that, it behoved her to do something; to be their Providence; for to Tess, as to not a few millions of others, there was ghastly satire in the poet’s lines—
苔丝转身离开他们，又走到窗边。外面已经黑了，但她把脸贴在窗玻璃上，仿佛要凝视黑暗。真的是为了掩饰自己的泪水。如果她能相信孩子们所唱的歌就好了；如果她确信的话，现在一切将会多么不同！她多么自信地将他们留给普罗维登斯和他们未来的王国！但是，如果没有做到这一点，她就应该做点什么。成为他们的天意；因为对于苔丝以及其他数百万人来说，诗人的诗句中充满了可怕的讽刺——

Not in utter nakedness
并非完全赤裸

But trailing clouds of glory do we come.
但我们终将带着荣耀的云彩而来。

To her and her like, birth itself was an ordeal of degrading personal compulsion, whose gratuitousness nothing in the result seemed to justify, and at best could only palliate.
对于她和她的同类来说，出生本身就是一种可耻的个人强迫的折磨，其无缘无故的结果似乎没有任何理由可以证明，充其量也只能起到缓解作用。

In the shades of the wet road she soon discerned her mother with tall ‘Liza-Lu and Abraham. Mrs Durbeyfield’s pattens clicked up to the door, and Tess opened it.
在湿漉漉的道路的阴影里，她很快就认出了她的母亲、高个子的丽莎-鲁和亚伯拉罕。德北菲尔德太太的帕滕斯叮当响到了门上，苔丝打开了门。

‘I see the tracks of a horse outside the window,’ said Joan. ‘Hev somebody called?’
“我看到窗外有一匹马的足迹，”琼说。 “有人打电话来吗？”

‘No,’ said Tess.
“不，”苔丝说。

The children by the fire looked gravely at her, and one murmured—
火边的孩子们严肃地看着她，其中一个低声说道：

‘Why, Tess, the gentleman a-horseback!’
“哎呀，苔丝，这位骑马的绅士！”

‘He didn’t call,’ said Tess. ‘He spoke to me in passing.’
“他没有打电话来，”苔丝说。 “他顺便跟我说话了。”

‘Who was the gentleman?’ asked the mother. ‘Your husband?’
“这位先生是谁？”母亲问。 '你丈夫？'

‘No. He’ll never, never come,’ answered Tess in stony hopelessness.
'不。他永远、永远不会来。”苔丝绝望地回答道。

‘Then who was it?’
“那是谁呢？”

‘Oh, you needn’t ask. You’ve seen him before, and so have I.’
‘哦，你不用问。你以前见过他，我也见过。

‘Ah! What did he say?’ said Joan curiously.
'啊！他说什么？”琼好奇地说。

‘I will tell you when we are settled in our lodging at Kingsbere to-morrow—every word.’
“明天我们在金斯比尔的住所安顿下来后，我会告诉你每一个字。”

It was not her husband, she had said. Yet a consciousness that in a physical sense this man alone was her husband seemed to weigh on her more and more.
她说过，这不是她的丈夫。然而，从身体意义上来说，这个男人才是她的丈夫，这种意识似乎越来越压在她身上。

LII

During the small hours of the next morning, while it was still dark, dwellers near the highways were conscious of a disturbance of their night’s rest by rumbling noises, intermittently continuing till daylight—noises as certain to recur in this particular first week of the month as the voice of the cuckoo in the third week of the same. They were the preliminaries of the general removal, the passing of the empty waggons and teams to fetch the goods of the migrating families; for it was always by the vehicle of the farmer who required his services that the hired man was conveyed to his destination. That this might be accomplished within the day was the explanation of the reverberation occurring so soon after midnight, the aim of the carters being to reach the door of the outgoing households by six o’clock, when the loading of their movables at once began.
第二天凌晨，天还黑的时候，高速公路附近的居民就意识到隆隆的噪音干扰了他们夜间的休息，这种噪音断断续续地持续到天亮——这种噪音肯定会在这个月的第一周再次出现。正如第三周的杜鹃之声一样。这是大范围搬迁的准备工作，空车和队伍经过，为移民家庭取走货物；因为总是由需要他服务的农民的车辆将雇工运送到目的地。这可以在一天之内完成，这是对午夜过后不久发生的回响的解释，车夫的目标是在六点钟之前到达即将离开的家庭的门口，届时立即开始装载他们的动产。

But to Tess and her mother’s household no such anxious farmer sent his team. They were only women; they were not regular labourers; they were not particularly required anywhere; hence they had to hire a waggon at their own expense, and got nothing sent gratuitously.
但没有哪个农民派出他的团队去苔丝和她母亲的家。她们只是女人；他们不是普通工人；任何地方都没有特别需要它们；因此，他们不得不自费雇一辆马车，而且没有得到任何免费的东西。

It was a relief to Tess, when she looked out of the window that morning, to find that though the weather was windy and louring, it did not rain, and that the waggon had come. A wet Lady-Day was a spectre which removing families never forgot; damp furniture, damp bedding, damp clothing accompanied it, and left a train of ills.
那天早上，当苔丝向窗外望去时，她发现虽然天气刮风下雨，但没有下雨，而且马车也来了，这让她松了口气。潮湿的Lady Day是一个让家人永远不会忘记的幽灵。潮湿的家具、潮湿的被褥、潮湿的衣物与之相伴，留下了一系列的弊病。

Her mother, ‘Liza-Lu, and Abraham were also awake, but the younger children were let sleep on. The four breakfasted by the thin light, and the ‘house-ridding’ was taken in hand.
她的母亲丽莎-卢和亚伯拉罕也醒了，但年幼的孩子们继续睡觉。四个人在微弱的灯光下吃早餐，“搬家”的事情就开始了。

It proceeded with some cheerfulness, a friendly neighbour or two assisting. When the large articles of furniture had been packed in position, a circular nest was made of the beds and bedding, in which Joan Durbeyfield and the young children were to sit through the journey. After loading there was a long delay before the horses were brought, these having been unharnessed during the ridding; but at length, about two o’clock, the whole was under way, the cooking-pot swinging from the axle of the waggon, Mrs Durbeyfield and family at the top, the matron having in her lap, to prevent injury to its works, the head of the clock, which, at any exceptional lurch of the waggon, struck one, or one-and-a-half, in hurt tones. Tess and the next eldest girl walked alongside till they were out of the village.
整个过程很愉快，有一两个友好的邻居在帮忙。当大型家具包装到位后，床和床上用品就形成了一个圆形的巢穴，琼·德北菲尔德和年幼的孩子们将坐在其中度过整个旅程。装货后，马匹被拖了很长时间才被运来，因为这些马匹在骑马过程中没有被套上马具。但最后，大约两点钟，一切都开始了，烹饪锅从马车的轴上摇晃着，德北菲尔德夫人和家人在上面，女总管放在她的腿上，以防止对其作品造成伤害，钟头一旦出现马车异常倾斜，钟头就会以受伤的声音敲响一响或一响半。苔丝和第二个大女孩并肩走着，直到出了村子。

They had called on a few neighbours that morning and the previous evening, and some came to see them off, all wishing them well, though, in their secret hearts, hardly expecting welfare possible to such a family, harmless as the Durbeyfields were to all except themselves. Soon the equipage began to ascend to higher ground, and the wind grew keener with the change of level and soil.
那天早上和前一天晚上，他们拜访了几个邻居，有些人来送行，所有人都祝愿他们一切顺利，但在他们的内心深处，几乎不指望这样一个家庭能够得到幸福，因为德北菲尔德一家对所有人都无害。除了他们自己。很快，装备开始上升到地势较高的地方，随着海拔和土壤的变化，风也变得更加凛冽。

The day being the sixth of April, the Durbeyfield waggon met many other waggons with families on the summit of the load, which was built on a wellnigh unvarying principle, as peculiar, probably, to the rural labourer as the hexagon to the bee. The groundwork of the arrangement was the family dresser, which, with its shining handles, and finger-marks, and domestic evidences thick upon it, stood importantly in front, over the tails of the shaft-horses, in its erect and natural position, like some Ark of the Covenant that they were bound to carry reverently.
4 月 6 日这一天，德北菲尔德马车在车顶上遇到了许多载着家人的马车，车子是按照几乎不变的原则建造的，对于农村劳动者来说，可能就像六边形对于蜜蜂一样奇特。这个布置的基础是家庭梳妆台，它有着闪亮的把手、指痕和厚厚的家庭证据，它重要地站在前面，在轴马的尾巴上方，处于直立和自然的位置，就像他们必须恭敬地抬着的约柜一样。

Some of the households were lively, some mournful; some were stopping at the doors of wayside inns; where, in due time, the Durbeyfield menagerie also drew up to bait horses and refresh the travellers.
各家各户有的热闹，有的悲凉；有些人停在路边旅馆门口；有些人则停在路边旅馆门口。在适当的时候，德北菲尔德动物园也会停下来引诱马匹，让旅客恢复活力。

During the halt Tess’s eyes fell upon a three-pint blue mug, which was ascending and descending through the air to and from the feminine section of a household, sitting on the summit of a load that had also drawn up at a little distance from the same inn. She followed one of the mug’s journeys upward, and perceived it to be clasped by hands whose owner she well knew. Tess went towards the waggon.
在停下来的时候，苔丝的目光落在了一个三品脱的蓝色杯子上，它在空中上下升降，往返于一个家庭的女性部分，坐在一个负载的顶部，负载也从离房间不远的地方升起。同一个旅馆。她顺着其中一个杯子往上走，发现握着杯子的手是她熟悉的主人。苔丝走向马车。

‘Marian and Izz!’ she cried to the girls, for it was they, sitting with the moving family at whose house they had lodged. ‘Are you house-ridding to-day, like everybody else?’
“玛丽安和伊兹！”她对女孩们喊道，因为她们正和搬家的一家人坐在一起，她们就住在她们的房子里。 “你今天也像其他人一样出门吗？”

They were, they said. It had been too rough a life for them at Flintcomb-Ash, and they had come away, almost without notice, leaving Groby to prosecute them if he chose. They told Tess their destination, and Tess told them hers.
他们说，他们是。他们在弗林特科姆-阿什的生活太艰难了，他们几乎在没有通知的情况下就离开了，留下格罗比来起诉他们，如果他愿意的话。他们告诉苔丝他们的目的地，苔丝也告诉他们她的目的地。

Marian leant over the load, and lowered her voice. ‘Do you know that the gentleman who follows ‘ee—you’ll guess who I mean—came to ask for ‘ee at Flintcomb after you had gone? We didn’t tell’n where you was, knowing you wouldn’t wish to see him.’
玛丽安靠在货物上，压低了声音。 “你知道你走后，跟随‘ee’的那位绅士——你猜我的意思是谁——来弗林特科姆找‘ee’吗？”我们没有告诉你你在哪里，因为我们知道你不想见到他。

‘Ah—but I did see him!’ Tess murmured. ‘He found me.’
“啊——但我确实看到了他！”苔丝低声说道。 “他找到了我。”

‘And do he know where you be going?’
“他知道你要去哪里吗？”

‘I think so.’
'我想是这样。'

‘Husband come back?’
“老公回来了？”

‘No.’
'不。'

She bade her acquaintance goodbye—for the respective carters had now come out from the inn—and the two waggons resumed their journey in opposite directions; the vehicle whereon sat Marian, Izz, and the ploughman’s family with whom they had thrown in their lot, being brightly painted, and drawn by three powerful horses with shining brass ornaments on their harness; while the waggon on which Mrs Durbeyfield and her family rode was a creaking erection that would scarcely bear the weight of the superincumbent load; one which had known no paint since it was made, and drawn by two horses only. The contrast well marked the difference between being fetched by a thriving farmer and conveying oneself whither no hirer waited one’s coming.
她向她的熟人道别——因为各自的车夫现在已经从客栈出来了——两辆马车继续朝相反的方向行驶。车上坐着玛丽安、伊兹和农夫全家，他们把他们投在了一起，车子漆得很亮，由三匹有力的马牵引，马具上挂着闪亮的黄铜装饰品。德北菲尔德夫人和她的家人乘坐的马车是嘎吱作响的建筑，几乎无法承受上面的负载的重量。这辆车自制造出来以来就没有上过任何油漆，仅由两匹马拉动。这种对比清楚地表明了被一个兴旺的农民带去和把自己带到没有租客等待的地方之间的区别。

The distance was great—too great for a day’s journey—and it was with the utmost difficulty that the horses performed it. Though they had started so early, it was quite late in the afternoon when they turned the flank of an eminence which formed part of the upland called Greenhill. While the horses stood to stale and breathe themselves Tess looked around. Under the hill, and just ahead of them, was the half-dead townlet of their pilgrimage, Kingsbere, where lay those ancestors of whom her father had spoken and sung to painfulness: Kingsbere, the spot of all spots in the world which could be considered the d’Urbervilles’ home, since they had resided there for full five hundred years.
距离很远——对于一天的路程来说太远了——而且马匹也费了很大的劲才完成这个任务。尽管他们起得很早，但当他们翻过一座高地的侧翼时，已经是下午很晚了，这座高地是格林希尔高地的一部分。当马匹站在那里休息、呼吸时，苔丝环顾四周。山下，就在他们前面，是他们朝圣的那个半死不活的小镇金斯贝尔，那里埋葬着她父亲曾痛苦地讲述和歌唱过的那些祖先：金斯贝尔，世界上所有可以去的地方的地方。这里被认为是德伯维尔家族的家，因为他们已经在那里居住了整整五百年。

A man could be seen advancing from the outskirts towards them, and when he beheld the nature of their waggon-load he quickened his steps.
可以看到一个男人从郊区向他们走来，当他看到他们的马车负载的性质时，他加快了脚步。

‘You be the woman they call Mrs Durbeyfield, I reckon?’ he said to Tess’s mother, who had descended to walk the remainder of the way.
“我想，你就是那个被人们称为德北菲尔德夫人的女人吧？”他对苔丝的母亲说道，她已经下楼走完了剩下的路。

She nodded. ‘Though widow of the late Sir John d’Urberville, poor nobleman, if I cared for my rights; and returning to the domain of his forefathers.’
她点点头。 “虽然已故约翰·德伯维尔爵士的遗孀，可怜的贵族，如果我关心我的权利的话；并回到他祖先的领地。

‘Oh? Well, I know nothing about that; but if you be Mrs Durbeyfield, I am sent to tell ‘ee that the rooms you wanted be let. We didn’t know that you was coming till we got your letter this morning—when ‘twas too late. But no doubt you can get other lodgings somewhere.’
'哦？好吧，我对此一无所知；但如果你是德北菲尔德夫人，我会被派去告诉你，你想要的房间已经出租了。直到今天早上收到你的信，我们才知道你会来——但为时已晚。但毫无疑问你可以在某个地方找到其他住处。”

The man had noticed the face of Tess, which had become ash-pale at his intelligence. Her mother looked hopelessly at fault. ‘What shall we do now, Tess?’ she said bitterly. ‘Here’s a welcome to your ancestors’ lands! However, let’s try further.’
那人注意到了苔丝的脸，苔丝的脸因他的智慧而变得苍白。她的母亲看上去无可救药地犯了错。 “我们现在该怎么办，苔丝？”她痛苦地说。 “欢迎来到你们祖先的土地！”不过，让我们进一步尝试。

They moved on into the town, and tried with all their might, Tess remaining with the waggon to take care of the children whilst her mother and ‘Liza-Lu made inquiries. At the last return of Joan to the vehicle, an hour later, when her search for accommodation had still been fruitless, the driver of the waggon said the goods must be unloaded, as the horses were half-dead, and he was bound to return part of the way at least that night.
他们继续进城，竭尽全力，苔丝留在马车上照顾孩子们，而她的母亲和丽莎·卢则在询问。一小时后，当琼最后一次返回车上时，当她寻找住宿仍无结果时，马车司机说必须卸下货物，因为马匹已经半死不活，他必须返回至少那天晚上已经完成了一部分。

‘Very well—unload it here,’ said Joan recklessly. ‘I’ll get shelter somewhere.’
“很好——把它卸在这里。”琼不顾一切地说。 “我会找个地方避难。”

The waggon had drawn up under the churchyard wall, in a spot screened from view, and the driver, nothing loth, soon hauled down the poor heap of household goods. This done, she paid him, reducing herself to almost her last shilling thereby, and he moved off and left them, only too glad to get out of further dealings with such a family. It was a dry night, and he guessed that they would come to no harm.
马车停在墓地墙下一个看不见的地方，车夫毫不犹豫地很快就把那堆可怜的家庭用品拖了下来。做完后，她付了钱给他，这样一来，她的身家就只剩下最后一个先令了，而他则离开了他们，很高兴不再与这样一个家庭打交道。这是一个干燥的夜晚，他猜他们不会受到伤害。

Tess gazed desperately at the pile of furniture. The cold sunlight of this spring evening peered invidiously upon the crocks and kettles, upon the bunches of dried herbs shivering in the breeze, upon the brass handles of the dresser, upon the wicker-cradle they had all been rocked in, and upon the well-rubbed clock-case, all of which gave out the reproachful gleam of indoor articles abandoned to the vicissitudes of a roofless exposure for which they were never made. Round about were deparked hills and slopes—now cut up into little paddocks—and the green foundations that showed where the d’Urberville mansion once had stood; also an outlying stretch of Egdon Heath that had always belonged to the estate. Hard by, the aisle of the church called the d’Urberville Aisle looked on imperturbably.
苔丝绝望地看着那堆家具。这个春夜寒冷的阳光阴森地照在瓦罐和水壶上，照在微风中颤抖的干香草束上，照在梳妆台的黄铜把手上，照在摇过它们的柳条摇篮上，照在井上。 ——擦过的钟壳，所有这些都散发着令人责备的光芒，就像那些被遗弃在无屋顶暴露的沧桑中的室内物品，而它们从来没有被制造过。周围是荒芜的山丘和斜坡——现在被分割成小围场——还有绿色的地基，显示了德伯维尔宅邸曾经所在的地方；还有埃格登希思（Egdon Heath）的边远地带，一直属于该庄园。不远处，教堂里名为德伯维尔过道的过道平静地看着。

‘Isn’t your family vault your own freehold?’ said Tess’s mother, as she returned from a reconnoitre of the church and graveyard. ‘Why, of course ‘tis, and that’s where we will camp, girls, till the place of your ancestors finds us a roof! Now, Tess and ‘Liza and Abraham, you help me. We’ll make a nest for these children, and then we’ll have another look round.’
“你家的金库不是你自己的永久业权吗？”苔丝的母亲在勘察完教堂和墓地回来时说道。 ‘当然，这就是我们要露营的地方，女孩们，直到你们祖先的地方为我们找到一个屋顶！现在，苔丝、丽莎和亚伯拉罕，你们帮助我。我们会为这些孩子搭个窝，然后再四处看看。”

Tess listlessly lent a hand, and in a quarter of an hour the old four-post bedstead was dissociated from the heap of goods, and erected under the south wall of the church, the part of the building known as the d’Urberville Aisle, beneath which the huge vaults lay. Over the tester of the bedstead was a beautiful traceried window, of many lights, its date being the fifteenth century. It was called the d’Urberville Window, and in the upper part could be discerned heraldic emblems like those on Durbeyfield’s old seal and spoon.
苔丝无精打采地伸出了手，一刻钟之内，旧的四柱床架就从一堆货物中分离出来，竖立在教堂的南墙下，即建筑的一部分，称为德伯维尔过道，下面是巨大的金库。床架上方有一扇漂亮的窗花窗，上面有许多灯光，其日期是十五世纪的。它被称为德伯维尔窗，在上部可以辨认出纹章标志，就像德伯菲尔德的旧印章和勺子上的纹章标志一样。

Joan drew the curtains round the bed so as to make an excellent tent of it, and put the smaller children inside. ‘If it comes to the worst we can sleep there too, for one night,’ she said. ‘But let us try further on, and get something for the dears to eat! O, Tess, what’s the use of your playing at marrying gentlemen, if it leaves us like this!’
琼拉上床周围的窗帘，把床围成一个完美的帐篷，然后把较小的孩子们放进去。 “如果情况最糟，我们也可以在那里睡一晚，”她说。 “但是让我们再努力一点，给亲爱的们弄点东西吃吧！”哦，苔丝，如果我们就这样了，你跟绅士结婚还有什么用呢！

Accompanied by ‘Liza-Lu and the boy, she again ascended the little lane which secluded the church from the townlet. As soon as they got into the street they beheld a man on horseback gazing up and down. ‘Ah—I’m looking for you!’ he said, riding up to them. ‘This is indeed a family gathering on the historic spot!’
在莉莎露和男孩的陪伴下，她再次走上那条将教堂与小镇隔离开的小巷。刚到街上，就看见一个骑马的男人上下打量着。 “啊——我在找你们！”他边说边骑马向他们走来。 “这确实是历史古迹上的一次家庭聚会！”

It was Alec d’Urberville. ‘Where is Tess?’ he asked.
这是亚历克·德伯维尔。 “苔丝在哪儿？”他问道。

Personally Joan had no liking for Alec. She cursorily signified the direction of the church, and went on, d’Urberville saying that he would see them again, in case they should be still unsuccessful in their search for shelter, of which he had just heard. When they had gone, d’Urberville rode to the inn, and shortly after came out on foot.
就个人而言，琼不喜欢亚历克。她粗略地指了指教堂的方向，然后继续说道，德伯维尔说他会再次见到他们，以防他们在寻找庇护所的过程中仍然不成功，他刚刚听说了这一点。他们走后，德伯维尔骑马来到旅馆，不久又步行出来。

In the interim Tess, left with the children inside the bedstead, remained talking with them awhile, till, seeing that no more could be done to make them comfortable just then, she walked about the churchyard, now beginning to be embrowned by the shades of nightfall. The door of the church was unfastened, and she entered it for the first time in her life.
在此期间，苔丝带着孩子们留在床架上，继续和他们聊了一会儿，直到她发现已经没有办法让他们舒服了，她在教堂墓地里走来走去，现在开始被教堂的阴影所玷污。黄昏。教堂的门没有锁，这是她生平第一次进去。

Within the window under which the bedstead stood were the tombs of the family, covering in their dates several centuries. They were canopied, altar-shaped, and plain; their carvings being defaced and broken; their brasses torn from the matrices, the rivet-holes remaining like martin-holes in a sandcliff. Of all the reminders that she had ever received that her people were socially extinct, there was none so forcible as this spoliation.
床架下的窗户里是这个家族的坟墓，其年代已有几个世纪了。它们有华盖，祭坛形状，朴素无华。他们的雕刻被污损和损坏；他们的黄铜从矩阵上撕下来，铆钉孔像沙崖上的马丁孔一样残留下来。在她收到的所有关于她的人民在社会上已经灭绝的提醒中，没有比这次掠夺更强烈的了。

She drew near to a dark stone on which was inscribed:
她走近一块黑色的石头，上面刻着：

OSTIUM SEPULCHRI ANTIQUAE FAMILIAE D’URBERVILLE
德伯维尔古墓门

Tess did not read Church-Latin like a Cardinal, but she knew that this was the door of her ancestral sepulchre, and that the tall knights of whom her father had chanted in his cups lay inside.
苔丝不像红衣主教那样读教会拉丁语，但她知道这是她祖先坟墓的门，她父亲在杯子里吟诵的高大骑士就躺在里面。

She musingly turned to withdraw, passing near an altar-tomb, the oldest of them all, on which was a recumbent figure. In the dusk she had not noticed it before, and would hardly have noticed it now but for an odd fancy that the effigy moved. As soon as she drew close to it she discovered all in a moment that the figure was a living person; and the shock to her sense of not having been alone was so violent that she was quite overcome, and sank down nigh to fainting, not, however, till she had recognized Alec d’Urberville in the form.
她若有所思地转身退出，经过一座祭坛坟墓附近，这是所有祭坛坟墓中最古老的，上面躺着一个人影。在黄昏中，她以前没有注意到它，现在如果不是因为有一种奇怪的感觉，雕像在移动，她也几乎不会注意到它。当她靠近的时候，她立刻发现那人影是一个活人。她感到自己并不孤单，这让她感到非常震惊，以至于她完全崩溃了，几乎要晕倒了，直到她认出了亚历克·德伯维尔的身影。

He leapt off the slab and supported her.
他从石板上跳下来，扶住了她。

‘I saw you come in,’ he said smiling, ‘and got up there not to interrupt your meditations. A family gathering, is it not, with these old fellows under us here? Listen.’
“我看见你进来了，”他微笑着说，“我就站起来，以免打扰你的沉思。是不是有我们手下这些老家伙在家里聚会？听。'

He stamped with his heel heavily on the floor; whereupon there arose a hollow echo from below.
他用脚后跟重重地跺着地板。随后，下方传来空洞的回声。

‘That shook them a bit, I’ll warrant!’ he continued. ‘And you thought I was the mere stone reproduction of one of them. But no. The old order changeth. The little finger of the sham d’Urberville can do more for you than the whole dynasty of the real underneath... Now command me. What shall I do?’
“我保证，这让他们有点震惊！”他继续说道。 ‘而你以为我只是其中之一的石头复制品。但不是。旧秩序发生了变化。假德伯维尔的小指能为你做的事比真正的整个王朝还要多……现在命令我。我该怎么办？'

‘Go away!’ she murmured.
“走开！”她低声说道。

‘I will—I’ll look for your mother,’ said he blandly. But in passing her he whispered: ‘Mind this; you’ll be civil yet!’
“我会——我会去找你妈妈，”他温和地说。但在经过她身边时，他低声说道：“注意这一点；你还是有礼貌的！”

When he was gone she bent down upon the entrance to the vaults, and said—
他走后，她在金库入口处弯下腰，说道——

‘Why am I on the wrong side of this door!’
“为什么我在这扇门的反面！”

In the meantime Marian and Izz Huett had journeyed onward with the chattels of the ploughman in the direction of their land of Canaan— the Egypt of some other family who had left it only that morning. But the girls did not for a long time think of where they were going. Their talk was of Angel Clare and Tess, and Tess’s persistent lover, whose connection with her previous history they had partly heard and partly guessed ere this.
与此同时，玛丽安和伊兹·休特带着农夫的动产继续前行，前往他们的迦南之地——另一个家族的埃及，而他们只是在那天早上离开了那里。但女孩们却久久没有想到自己要去哪里。他们谈论的是安吉尔·克莱尔和苔丝，以及苔丝执着的情人，在此之前他们已经部分听说过、部分猜到了她与她以前的历史的联系。

‘‘Tisn’t as though she had never known him afore,’ said Marian. ‘His having won her once makes all the difference in the world. ‘Twould be a thousand pities if he were to tole her away again. Mr Clare can never be anything to us, Izz; and why should we grudge him to her, and not try to mend this quarrel? If he could on’y know what straits she’s put to, and what’s hovering round, he might come to take care of his own.’
“看来她以前从来不认识他，”玛丽安说。 “他一旦赢得了她，世界就变得不同了。 “如果他再把她带走，那就太可惜了。”克莱尔先生对我们来说永远无足轻重，伊兹；我们为什么要对他怀恨在心，而不尝试去调解这场争吵呢？如果他能知道她陷入了什么困境，以及周围有什么，他可能会来照顾自己的。

‘Could we let him know?’
“我们可以让他知道吗？”

They thought of this all the way to their destination; but the bustle of re-establishment in their new place took up all their attention then. But when they were settled, a month later, they heard of Clare’s approaching return, though they had learnt nothing more of Tess. Upon that, agitated anew by their attachment to him, yet honourably disposed to her, Marian uncorked the penny ink-bottle they shared, and a few lines were concocted between the two girls.
他们一路想着这个，到达了目的地；但当时他们全神贯注于新地方重建的喧嚣。但一个月后，当他们安顿下来时，他们听说克莱尔即将回来，尽管他们对苔丝一无所知。随后，玛丽安再次被她们对他的依恋所激怒，但又对她怀有尊敬的态度，她打开了她们共用的廉价墨水瓶，两个女孩之间编造了几句台词。

HONOUR’D SIR—
尊敬的先生——


Look to your Wife if you do love her as much as she do love you. For she is sore put to by an Enemy in the shape of a Friend. Sir, there is one near her who ought to be Away. A woman should not be try’d beyond her Strength, and continual dropping will wear away a Stone—ay, more—a Diamond.
看看你的妻子，看看你是否像她爱你一样爱她。因为她被一个以朋友的形式存在的敌人所折磨。先生，她附近有一个人应该离开。一个女人不应该受到超出她力量的考验，不断的跌落会磨掉一颗石头——呃，更确切地说——一颗钻石。


FROM TWO WELL-WISHERS
来自两位好心人的祝福

This was addressed to Angel Clare at the only place they had ever heard him to be connected with, Emminster Vicarage; after which they continued in a mood of emotional exaltation at their own generosity, which made them sing in hysterical snatches and weep at the same time.
这封信是在他们听说过的唯一一个与安吉尔·克莱尔有联系的地方——埃明斯特牧师住所写给他的。之后，他们继续为自己的慷慨而兴奋不已，歇斯底里地唱歌，同时哭泣。

END OF PHASE THE SIXTH
第六阶段结束

Phase the Seventh: Fulfilment
第七阶段：实现

LIII
第五世

It was evening at Emminster Vicarage. The two customary candles were burning under their green shades in the Vicar’s study, but he had not been sitting there. Occasionally he came in, stirred the small fire which sufficed for the increasing mildness of the spring, and went out again; sometimes pausing at the front door, going on to the drawing-room, then returning again to the front door.
埃明斯特牧师公馆已是傍晚。牧师书房里，两支传统的蜡烛在绿色灯罩下燃烧着，但他并没有坐在那里。有时他进来，搅动小火，使春天的温度变得越来越温和，然后又出去。有时在前门停下来，走到客厅，然后又回到前门。

It faced westward, and though gloom prevailed inside, there was still light enough without to see with distinctness. Mrs Clare, who had been sitting in the drawing-room, followed him hither.
它面向西，虽然里面笼罩着阴暗，但仍有足够的光线，看不清。克莱尔夫人一直坐在客厅里，跟着他来到这里。

‘Plenty of time yet,’ said the Vicar. ‘He doesn’t reach Chalk-Newton till six, even if the train should be punctual, and ten miles of country-road, five of them in Crimmercrock Lane, are not jogged over in a hurry by our old horse.’
“还有很多时间，”牧师说。 “即使火车应该准点，他也要到六点才能到达查克牛顿，十英里的乡间小路，其中五英里在克里默克罗克巷，我们的老马不会匆忙地慢跑过去。”

‘But he has done it in an hour with us, my dear.’
“但他和我们一起在一小时内就做到了，亲爱的。”

‘Years ago.’
'几年前。'

Thus they passed the minutes, each well knowing that this was only waste of breath, the one essential being simply to wait.
他们就这样度过了几分钟，每个人都知道这只是浪费时间，最重要的是等待。

At length there was a slight noise in the lane, and the old pony-chaise appeared indeed outside the railings. They saw alight therefrom a form which they affected to recognize, but would actually have passed by in the street without identifying had he not got out of their carriage at the particular moment when a particular person was due.
终于，小巷里传来了轻微的响声，那辆旧马车果然出现在栏杆外面。他们从车上看到一个人影，他们假装认出了这个人影，但如果他没有在某个特定的人该到的特定时刻下车的话，实际上他们可能会在街上路过而没有认出他。

Mrs Clare rushed through the dark passage to the door, and her husband came more slowly after her.
克莱尔夫人冲过黑暗的通道来到门口，她的丈夫则慢吞吞地跟在她后面。

The new arrival, who was just about to enter, saw their anxious faces in the doorway and the gleam of the west in their spectacles because they confronted the last rays of day; but they could only see his shape against the light.
刚要进来的新来的人，在门口看到了他们焦急的脸，在他们的眼镜中看到了西方的微光，因为他们面临着最后的曙光；但他们只能在灯光下看到他的形状。

‘O, my boy, my boy—home again at last!’ cried Mrs Clare, who cared no more at that moment for the stains of heterodoxy which had caused all this separation than for the dust upon his clothes. What woman, indeed, among the most faithful adherents of the truth, believes the promises and threats of the Word in the sense in which she believes in her own children, or would not throw her theology to the wind if weighed against their happiness? As soon as they reached the room where the candles were lighted she looked at his face.
“哦，我的孩子，我的孩子——终于又回家了！”克莱尔夫人喊道，此时此刻，她并不关心造成这一切分离的异端污点，也不关心他衣服上的灰尘。事实上，在真理最忠实的追随者中，有哪个女人像相信自己的孩子一样相信圣言的应许和威胁，或者如果权衡他们的幸福，她不会把她的神学抛在脑后呢？他们一到达点着蜡烛的房间，她就看着他的脸。

‘O, it is not Angel—not my son—the Angel who went away!’ she cried in all the irony of sorrow, as she turned herself aside.
“哦，那不是安吉尔——不是我的儿子——是离开的天使！”她一边转过身去，一边悲伤地讽刺着。

His father, too, was shocked to see him, so reduced was that figure from its former contours by worry and the bad season that Clare had experienced, in the climate to which he had so rashly hurried in his first aversion to the mockery of events at home. You could see the skeleton behind the man, and almost the ghost behind the skeleton. He matched Crivelli’s dead Christus. His sunken eye-pits were of morbid hue, and the light in his eyes had waned. The angular hollows and lines of his aged ancestors had succeeded to their reign in his face twenty years before their time.
他的父亲看到他也很震惊，由于忧虑和克莱尔经历的糟糕季节，在他第一次厌恶事件的嘲笑时，他如此轻率地匆忙进入了这种气候，这个人物的轮廓从以前的轮廓变得如此之小。在家里。你可以看到那个人背后的骷髅，几乎可以看到骷髅后面的鬼魂。他与克里维利死去的克里斯图斯相匹配。他的眼窝深陷，呈现出一种病态的色彩，眼中的光芒也暗淡下来。他年老祖先的棱角凹陷和线条比他们的时代提前了二十年，在他脸上继承了统治地位。

‘I was ill over there, you know,’ he said. ‘I am all right now.’
“你知道，我在那里病了，”他说。 “我现在没事了。”

As if, however, to falsify this assertion, his legs seemed to give way, and he suddenly sat down to save himself from falling. It was only a slight attack of faintness, resulting from the tedious day’s journey, and the excitement of arrival.
然而，仿佛是为了证伪这个说法，他的双腿似乎一软，猛地坐了下来，免得自己摔倒。这只是由于一天的乏味旅程和抵达时的兴奋造成的轻微晕眩。

‘Has any letter come for me lately?’ he asked. ‘I received the last you sent on by the merest chance, and after considerable delay through being inland; or I might have come sooner.’
“最近有给我的信吗？”他问道。 “我偶然收到了你寄来的最后一封信，而且由于在内陆而耽搁了相当长的时间；或者我可能会早点来。

‘It was from your wife, we supposed?’
“我们猜是你妻子送来的吧？”

‘It was.’
'它是。'

Only one other had recently come. They had not sent it on to him, knowing he would start for home so soon.
只有另外一个人最近来过。他们知道他很快就要回家，所以没有把它寄给他。

He hastily opened the letter produced, and was much disturbed to read in Tess’s handwriting the sentiments expressed in her last hurried scrawl to him.
他急忙打开了那封信，看到苔丝的笔迹里写着她最后一次匆忙写给他的感情，他感到非常不安。

O why have you treated me so monstrously, Angel! I do not deserve it. I have thought it all over carefully, and I can never, never forgive you! You know that I did not intend to wrong you—why have you so wronged me? You are cruel, cruel indeed! I will try to forget you. It is all injustice I have received at your hands!
哦，你为什么要如此残忍地对待我，天使！我不配拥有它。我仔细想了想，我绝对绝对不会原谅你！你明知道我无意冤枉你，你为何如此冤枉我？你太残忍了，真的太残忍了！我会努力忘记你。这都是我在你们手里受到的不公！


T.

‘It is quite true!’ said Angel, throwing down the letter. ‘Perhaps she will never be reconciled to me!’
“千真万确！”安吉尔扔下信说道。 “也许她永远不会跟我和解！”

‘Don’t, Angel, be so anxious about a mere child of the soil!’ said his mother.
“安吉尔，别为一个土生子如此担心！”他的母亲说道。

‘Child of the soil! Well, we all are children of the soil. I wish she were so in the sense you mean; but let me now explain to you what I have never explained before, that her father is a descendant in the male line of one of the oldest Norman houses, like a good many others who lead obscure agricultural lives in our villages, and are dubbed ‘sons of the soil.’’
‘土地之子！嗯，我们都是土地的孩子。我希望她是你所说的那样；但现在让我向你解释一下我以前从未解释过的事情，即她的父亲是最古老的诺曼家族之一的男性后裔，就像许多其他在我们村庄里过着默默无闻的农业生活的人一样，被称为“大地之子。”

He soon retired to bed; and the next morning, feeling exceedingly unwell, he remained in his room pondering. The circumstances amid which he had left Tess were such that though, while on the south of the Equator and just in receipt of her loving epistle, it had seemed the easiest thing in the world to rush back into her arms the moment he chose to forgive her, now that he had arrived it was not so easy as it had seemed. She was passionate, and her present letter, showing that her estimate of him had changed under his delay—too justly changed, he sadly owned,—made him ask himself if it would be wise to confront her unannounced in the presence of her parents. Supposing that her love had indeed turned to dislike during the last weeks of separation, a sudden meeting might lead to bitter words.
他很快就上床睡觉了。第二天早上，他感觉非常不舒服，留在自己的房间里沉思。他离开苔丝的情况是这样的，虽然在赤道以南，刚刚收到她的爱信，但当他选择原谅的那一刻，冲回她的怀抱似乎是世界上最容易的事情她，现在他来了，事情并不像看上去那么容易。她很热情，而她现在的信表明，在他的拖延下，她对他的评价发生了变化——他悲伤地承认，改变太公正了——让他问自己，在她父母在场的情况下不请自来地与她对质是否明智。假设在分离的最后几周里，她的爱确实变成了厌恶，那么突然的见面可能会导致恶言相向。

Clare therefore thought it would be best to prepare Tess and her family by sending a line to Marlott announcing his return, and his hope that she was still living with them there, as he had arranged for her to do when he left England. He despatched the inquiry that very day, and before the week was out there came a short reply from Mrs Durbeyfield which did not remove his embarrassment, for it bore no address, though to his surprise it was not written from Marlott.
因此，克莱尔认为最好给苔丝和她的家人发一封信，宣布他回来了，并希望她仍然和他们住在一起，就像他离开英国时为她安排的那样。他当天就发出了询问，在一周结束之前，德北菲尔德夫人给了他一份简短的答复，但这并没有消除他的尴尬，因为上面没有地址，尽管令他惊讶的是，这不是马洛特写的。

SIR,
先生，


J write these few lines to say that my Daughter is away from me at present, and J am not sure when she will return, but J will let you know as Soon as she do. J do not feel at liberty to tell you Where she is temperly biding. J should say that me and my Family have left Marlott for some Time.—
J 写下这几行文字是为了表示我的女儿目前不在我身边，J 不确定她什么时候回来，但 J 会尽快让您知道。我不敢随意告诉你她脾气暴躁的地方。 J 应该说我和我的家人已经离开马洛特有一段时间了。——


Yours,
你的，


J. DURBEYFIELD
J·德北菲尔德

It was such a relief to Clare to learn that Tess was at least apparently well that her mother’s stiff reticence as to her whereabouts did not long distress him. They were all angry with him, evidently. He would wait till Mrs Durbeyfield could inform him of Tess’s return, which her letter implied to be soon. He deserved no more. His had been a love ‘which alters when it alteration finds”. He had undergone some strange experiences in his absence; he had seen the virtual Faustina in the literal Cornelia, a spiritual Lucretia in a corporeal Phryne; he had thought of the woman taken and set in the midst as one deserving to be stoned, and of the wife of Uriah being made a queen; and he had asked himself why he had not judged Tess constructively rather than biographically, by the will rather than by the deed?
克莱尔得知苔丝至少表面上还好，这让克莱尔松了口气，因为她母亲对她的行踪一直保持沉默，并没有让他长期感到困扰。显然，他们都对他很生气。他会等到德北菲尔德夫人通知他苔丝回来的消息，她的信暗示很快就会回来。他不再值得了。他的爱是“当发现改变时就会改变”。他不在的时候，他经历了一些奇怪的经历。他在真实的科妮莉亚中看到了虚拟的福斯蒂娜，在有形的芙里涅中看到了精神上的卢克丽霞。他想到了那个被抓起来放在中间的女人，认为她应该被石头砸死，乌利亚的妻子被立为王后。他问自己，为什么他没有建设性地而不是根据传记，根据意愿而不是根据行为来评判苔丝？

A day or two passed while he waited at his father’s house for the promised second note from Joan Durbeyfield, and indirectly to recover a little more strength. The strength showed signs of coming back, but there was no sign of Joan’s letter. Then he hunted up the old letter sent on to him in Brazil, which Tess had written from Flintcomb-Ash, and re-read it. The sentences touched him now as much as when he had first perused them.
一两天过去了，他在父亲家里等待琼·德北菲尔德承诺的第二封信，间接地恢复了一点体力。体力有恢复的迹象，但是却没有乔安的信的迹象。然后他找到了苔丝从弗林特科姆阿什写给他的那封在巴西寄给他的旧信，并重读了一遍。这些句子现在对他的触动和他第一次读到它们时一样强烈。

... I must cry to you in my trouble—I have no one else! ... I think I must die if you do not come soon, or tell me to come to you... please, please, not to be just—only a little kind to me ... If you would come, I could die in your arms! I would be well content to do that if so be you had forgiven me! ... if you will send me one little line, and say, ‘I am coming soon,’ I will bide on, Angel—O, so cheerfully! ... think how it do hurt my heart not to see you ever—ever! Ah, if I could only make your dear heart ache one little minute of each day as mine does every day and all day long, it might lead you to show pity to your poor lonely one. ... I would be content, ay, glad, to live with you as your servant, if I may not as your wife; so that I could only be near you, and get glimpses of you, and think of you as mine. ... I long for only one thing in heaven or earth or under the earth, to meet you, my own dear! Come to me—come to me, and save me from what threatens me!
……我在遇到困难时必须向你哭泣——我没有别人了！ ...我想如果你不快点来的话我就必须死了...求你了，求你了，不要只是对我好一点...如果你愿意来，我可以在你怀里死去！如果你能原谅我的话，我会很乐意这样做！ ……如果你给我发一封短信，说：‘我很快就会来’，我会坚持下去，天使——噢，如此高兴！ ……想想看，永远见不到你，我的心多么受伤！啊，如果我只能让你亲爱的心每天疼痛一分钟，就像我每天、一整天一样，它可能会让你对你可怜的孤独的心表示同情。 ……如果我不做你的妻子的话，我会很高兴，是的，很高兴能作为你的仆人与你一起生活。所以我只能靠近你，瞥见你，把你视为我的。 ……我所渴望的只有一件事，无论是天上、人间还是地底下，都能见到你，我亲爱的！到我这里来——到我这里来，把我从威胁我的东西中拯救出来！

Clare determined that he would no longer believe in her more recent and severer regard of him, but would go and find her immediately. He asked his father if she had applied for any money during his absence. His father returned a negative, and then for the first time it occurred to Angel that her pride had stood in her way, and that she had suffered privation. From his remarks his parents now gathered the real reason of the separation; and their Christianity was such that, reprobates being their especial care, the tenderness towards Tess which her blood, her simplicity, even her poverty, had not engendered, was instantly excited by her sin.
克莱尔决定不再相信她最近对他更加严厉的态度，而是立即去找她。他问父亲在他不在期间她是否申请过任何钱。他的父亲给出了否定的答复，然后安吉尔第一次意识到她的骄傲阻碍了她，她遭受了贫困。从他的言论中，他的父母现在了解到了分居的真正原因。他们的基督教信仰是这样的，即他们对被弃绝的人特别关心，对苔丝的温柔是她的血统、她的纯朴、甚至她的贫穷所没有产生的，却立即因她的罪孽而激发起来。

Whilst he was hastily packing together a few articles for his journey he glanced over a poor plain missive also lately come to hand—the one from Marian and Izz Huett, beginning—
当他匆忙收拾几件旅途所需的物品时，他浏览了一封最近也到手的简陋信函——玛丽安和伊兹·休特写的信，开头是——

‘Honour’d Sir, Look to your Wife if you do love her as much as she do love you,’ and signed, ‘From Two Well-Wishers.’
“尊敬的先生，看看你的妻子，如果你爱她就像她爱你一样，”并签名，“来自两位祝福者。”

LIV
生命值

In a quarter of an hour Clare was leaving the house, whence his mother watched his thin figure as it disappeared into the street. He had declined to borrow his father’s old mare, well knowing of its necessity to the household. He went to the inn, where he hired a trap, and could hardly wait during the harnessing. In a very few minutes after, he was driving up the hill out of the town which, three or four months earlier in the year, Tess had descended with such hopes and ascended with such shattered purposes.
一刻钟后，克莱尔就要离开家了，他的母亲看着他瘦弱的身影消失在街上。他拒绝借用父亲的老母马，因为他深知这匹马对这个家庭的重要性。他去了客栈，在那里租了一个陷阱，在套马具的过程中他几乎等不及了。几分钟后，他就开车上山出了镇，今年早些时候的三四个月，苔丝带着这样的希望下山，又带着如此破碎的目标上山。

Benvill Lane soon stretched before him, its hedges and trees purple with buds; but he was looking at other things, and only recalled himself to the scene sufficiently to enable him to keep the way. In something less than an hour-and-a-half he had skirted the south of the King’s Hintock estates and ascended to the untoward solitude of Cross-in-Hand, the unholy stone whereon Tess had been compelled by Alec d’Urberville, in his whim of reformation, to swear the strange oath that she would never wilfully tempt him again. The pale and blasted nettle-stems of the preceding year even now lingered nakedly in the banks, young green nettles of the present spring growing from their roots.
本维尔巷很快就在他面前展开，树篱和树木都长满了紫色的花蕾。但他当时正在看别的东西，只是充分回想起当时的场景，以便能够继续前行。在不到一个半小时的时间里，他绕过了国王辛托克庄园的南边，登上了手十字那块令人不快的偏僻之地，那是苔丝被亚历克·德伯维尔强迫登上的那块邪恶的石头。他一时兴起的改革，发下奇怪的誓言，她永远不会再故意诱惑他。去年的苍白枯萎的荨麻茎现在还裸露在河岸上，今年春天的嫩绿色荨麻从根部生长出来。

Thence he went along the verge of the upland overhanging the other Hintocks, and, turning to the right, plunged into the bracing calcareous region of Flintcomb-Ash, the address from which she had written to him in one of the letters, and which he supposed to be the place of sojourn referred to by her mother. Here, of course, he did not find her; and what added to his depression was the discovery that no ‘Mrs Clare’ had ever been heard of by the cottagers or by the farmer himself, though Tess was remembered well enough by her Christian name. His name she had obviously never used during their separation, and her dignified sense of their total severance was shown not much less by this abstention than by the hardships she had chosen to undergo (of which he now learnt for the first time) rather than apply to his father for more funds.
从那里，他沿着悬在其他辛托克山上的高地边缘走去，然后向右转，一头扎进了燧石科姆-阿什那片令人振奋的石灰质地区，她在一封信中写给他的地址就是这个地址，他也是从那里写信给他的。应该是她母亲所说的寄居地。当然，他在这里并没有找到她。更让他沮丧的是，他发现村里的人或农夫本人从来没有听说过“克莱尔夫人”，尽管苔丝的教名人们都记得很清楚。在他们分居期间，她显然从未使用过他的名字，而她对他们完全断绝关系的庄严感觉，不仅体现在这种弃权，也体现在她选择承受的苦难（他现在第一次了解到这些苦难）而不是申请。向他的父亲寻求更多的资金。

From this place they told him Tess Durbeyfield had gone, without due notice, to the home of her parents on the other side of Blackmoor, and it therefore became necessary to find Mrs Durbeyfield. She had told him she was not now at Marlott, but had been curiously reticent as to her actual address, and the only course was to go to Marlott and inquire for it. The farmer who had been so churlish with Tess was quite smooth-tongued to Clare, and lent him a horse and man to drive him towards Marlott, the gig he had arrived in being sent back to Emminster; for the limit of a day’s journey with that horse was reached.
他们从这个地方告诉他，苔丝德北菲尔德在没有适当通知的情况下去了她父母在布莱克摩尔另一边的家，因此有必要找到德北菲尔德夫人。她告诉他，她现在不在马洛特，但奇怪的是，她对自己的实际地址却三缄其口，唯一的办法就是去马洛特打听。那个对苔丝如此粗暴的农夫对克莱尔却很圆滑，借给他一匹马和一个人，开车送他去马洛特，他抵达时乘坐的平底船被送回了埃明斯特；因为那匹马一天的行程已经达到了极限。

Clare would not accept the loan of the farmer’s vehicle for a further distance than to the outskirts of the Vale, and, sending it back with the man who had driven him, he put up at an inn, and next day entered on foot the region wherein was the spot of his dear Tess’s birth. It was as yet too early in the year for much colour to appear in the gardens and foliage; the so-called spring was but winter overlaid with a thin coat of greenness, and it was of a parcel with his expectations.
克莱尔不接受农夫借车去比谷地郊区更远的距离，于是他把车和开车他的人一起送了回去，在一家旅馆住了下来，第二天步行进入了该地区。这里是他亲爱的苔丝出生的地方。现在还为时过早，花园和树叶上还没有出现太多的色彩。所谓的春天不过是冬天披上了一层薄薄的绿色，与他的期盼是密不可分的。

The house in which Tess had passed the years of her childhood was now inhabited by another family who had never known her. The new residents were in the garden, taking as much interest in their own doings as if the homestead had never passed its primal time in conjunction with the histories of others, beside which the histories of these were but as a tale told by an idiot. They walked about the garden paths with thoughts of their own concerns entirely uppermost, bringing their actions at every moment in jarring collision with the dim ghosts behind them, talking as though the time when Tess lived there were not one whit intenser in story than now. Even the spring birds sang over their heads as if they thought there was nobody missing in particular.
苔丝度过童年的那所房子现在住着另一个素不相识的家庭。新居民们在花园里，对自己的所作所为表现出极大的兴趣，就好像这个家园从未经历过与其他人的历史结合在一起的原始时期，除此之外，这些人的历史只不过是一个白痴讲述的故事。他们在花园小路上走来走去，完全把自己的担忧放在首位，他们的行为每时每刻都与身后昏暗的鬼魂发生刺耳的碰撞，谈论的话题就好像苔丝生活在那里的时候的故事并不比现在更激烈。就连春天的鸟儿也在他们头顶上歌唱，仿佛以为没有什么人失踪。

On inquiry of these precious innocents, to whom even the name of their predecessors was a failing memory, Clare learned that John Durbeyfield was dead; that his widow and children had left Marlott, declaring that they were going to live at Kingsbere, but instead of doing so had gone on to another place they mentioned. By this time Clare abhorred the house for ceasing to contain Tess, and hastened away from its hated presence without once looking back.
在询问这些珍贵的无辜者时，克莱尔得知约翰·德北菲尔德已经死了，对他们来说，连他们前辈的名字都记不清了。他的遗孀和孩子们离开了马洛特，声称他们要住在金斯贝尔，但他们并没有这样做，而是去了他们提到的另一个地方。这时，克莱尔憎恨这座房子不再收容苔丝，并头也不回地匆匆离开了它令人憎恶的存在。

His way was by the field in which he had first beheld her at the dance. It was as bad as the house—even worse. He passed on through the churchyard, where, amongst the new headstones, he saw one of a somewhat superior design to the rest. The inscription ran thus:
他的路是在舞会上他第一次见到她的那片场地。它和房子一样糟糕——甚至更糟。他穿过教堂墓地，在新墓碑中，他看到了其中一块设计比其他墓碑略胜一筹的墓碑。碑文是这样写的：

In memory of John Durbeyfield, rightly d’Urberville, of the once powerful family of that Name, and Direct Descendant through an illustrious Line from Sir Pagan d’Urberville, one of the Knights of the Conqueror. Died March 10th, 18—
为了纪念约翰·德伯维尔（John Durbeyfield），也就是曾经强大的德伯维尔家族，他是征服者骑士之一帕根·德伯维尔爵士的显赫血统的直系后裔。 18 年 3 月 10 日去世——


HOW ARE THE MIGHTY FALLEN.
强者如何陨落？

Some man, apparently the sexton, had observed Clare standing there, and drew nigh. ‘Ah, sir, now that’s a man who didn’t want to lie here, but wished to be carried to Kingsbere, where his ancestors be.’
某个人，显然是教堂司事，看到克莱尔站在那里，便走近了。 “啊，先生，现在这个人不想躺在这里，而是希望被带到金斯比尔，他的祖先所在的地方。”

‘And why didn’t they respect his wish?’
“他们为什么不尊重他的愿望呢？”

‘Oh—no money. Bless your soul, sir, why—there, I wouldn’t wish to say it everywhere, but—even this headstone, for all the flourish wrote upon en, is not paid for.’
‘哦——没钱。保佑你的灵魂，先生，为什么——在那里，我不想在任何地方都这么说，但是——即使是这块墓碑，尽管在恩上写下了所有的华丽文字，但也没有得到报酬。

‘Ah, who put it up?’
“啊，谁放的？”

The man told the name of a mason in the village, and, on leaving the churchyard, Clare called at the mason’s house. He found that the statement was true, and paid the bill. This done, he turned in the direction of the migrants.
那人告诉了村里一个石匠的名字，离开教堂墓地后，克莱尔拜访了石匠的家。他发现该说法属实，并支付了费用。做完这些，他转向移民的方向。

The distance was too long for a walk, but Clare felt such a strong desire for isolation that at first he would neither hire a conveyance nor go to a circuitous line of railway by which he might eventually reach the place. At Shaston, however, he found he must hire; but the way was such that he did not enter Joan’s place till about seven o’clock in the evening, having traversed a distance of over twenty miles since leaving Marlott.
步行的距离太远了，但克莱尔对孤立的渴望如此强烈，以至于一开始他既不租交通工具，也不走一条最终可能到达目的地的迂回铁路线。然而，在沙斯顿，他发现自己必须雇用一名员工。但路途如此，他从马洛特出发，已经走了二十多英里的路程，直到晚上七点左右才进入琼的住处。

The village being small he had little difficulty in finding Mrs Durbeyfield’s tenement, which was a house in a walled garden, remote from the main road, where she had stowed away her clumsy old furniture as best she could. It was plain that for some reason or other she had not wished him to visit her, and he felt his call to be somewhat of an intrusion. She came to the door herself, and the light from the evening sky fell upon her face.
村子很小，他很容易就找到了德北菲尔德太太的公寓，那是一座位于有围墙的花园里的房子，远离主干道，她尽可能地将笨拙的旧家具收起来。显然，出于某种原因，她不希望他去看她，他觉得他的电话有点打扰。她自己来到门口，傍晚天空的光辉洒在她的脸上。

This was the first time that Clare had ever met her, but he was too preoccupied to observe more than that she was still a handsome woman, in the garb of a respectable widow. He was obliged to explain that he was Tess’s husband, and his object in coming there, and he did it awkwardly enough. ‘I want to see her at once,’ he added. ‘You said you would write to me again, but you have not done so.’
这是克莱尔第一次见到她，但他太专注了，只注意到她仍然是一位英俊的女人，穿着一位受人尊敬的寡妇的装束。他不得不解释说，他是苔丝的丈夫，也是他来这里的目的，但他做得很尴尬。 “我想立即见到她，”他补充道。 “你说过会再给我写信，但你没有这样做。”

‘Because she’ve not come home,’ said Joan.
“因为她还没回家。”琼说。

‘Do you know if she is well?’
“你知道她还好吗？”

‘I don’t. But you ought to, sir,’ said she.
'我不。但你应该这样做，先生，”她说。

‘I admit it. Where is she staying?’
'我承认。她住在哪里？

From the beginning of the interview Joan had disclosed her embarrassment by keeping her hand to the side of her cheek.
从采访一开始，琼就把手放在脸颊一侧，透露出她的尴尬。

‘I—don’t know exactly where she is staying,’ she answered. ‘She was—but—‘
“我——不知道她到底住在哪里，”她回答道。 “她是——但是——”

‘Where was she?’
“她在哪儿？”

‘Well, she is not there now.’
“嗯，她现在不在。”

In her evasiveness she paused again, and the younger children had by this time crept to the door, where, pulling at his mother’s skirts, the youngest murmured—
她犹豫不决，又停了下来，此时，年幼的孩子们已经爬到了门口，最小的孩子拉着母亲的裙子，低声说道——

‘Is this the gentleman who is going to marry Tess?’
“这就是要娶苔丝的那位先生吗？”

‘He has married her,’ Joan whispered. ‘Go inside.’
“他已经娶了她，”琼低声说道。 '进去。'

Clare saw her efforts for reticence, and asked—
克莱尔看出她极力保持沉默，问道——

‘Do you think Tess would wish me to try and find her? If not, of course—‘
“你认为苔丝会希望我尝试找到她吗？如果没有，当然——”

‘I don’t think she would.’
“我认为她不会。”

‘Are you sure?’
'你确定吗？'

‘I am sure she wouldn’t.’
“我确信她不会。”

He was turning away; and then he thought of Tess’s tender letter.
他正转身走开；然后他想到了苔丝那封温柔的信。

‘I am sure she would!’ he retorted passionately. ‘I know her better than you do.’
“我相信她会的！”他热情地反驳道。 “我比你更了解她。”

‘That’s very likely, sir; for I have never really known her.’
“这很有可能，先生；因为我从来没有真正了解过她。

‘Please tell me her address, Mrs Durbeyfield, in kindness to a lonely wretched man!’ Tess’s mother again restlessly swept her cheek with her vertical hand, and seeing that he suffered, she at last said, is a low voice—
“请告诉我她的地址，德北菲尔德太太，以善待一个孤独而不幸的人！”苔丝的母亲再次用垂直的手不安地抚摸着她的脸颊，看到他受苦了，她最后低声说道——

‘She is at Sandbourne.’
“她在桑德伯恩。”

‘Ah—where there? Sandbourne has become a large place, they say.’
‘啊——那里？他们说，桑德伯恩已经成为一个很大的地方。

‘I don’t know more particularly than I have said—Sandbourne. For myself, I was never there.’
“我不知道比我所说的更具体的事情了——桑德伯恩。对于我自己来说，我从来没有去过那里。

It was apparent that Joan spoke the truth in this, and he pressed her no further.
显然琼说的是实话，他也没有再追问她。

‘Are you in want of anything?’ he said gently.
“你需要什么吗？”他温柔地说。

‘No, sir,’ she replied. ‘We are fairly well provided for.’
“不，先生，”她回答道。 “我们的生活条件相当好。”

Without entering the house Clare turned away. There was a station three miles ahead, and paying off his coachman, he walked thither. The last train to Sandbourne left shortly after, and it bore Clare on its wheels.
克莱尔没有进屋就转身走了。前方三英里有一个车站，付完车夫的钱后，他步行到了那里。不久之后，最后一班开往桑德伯恩的火车就开走了，车上载着克莱尔。

LV

At eleven o’clock that night, having secured a bed at one of the hotels and telegraphed his address to his father immediately on his arrival, he walked out into the streets of Sandbourne. It was too late to call on or inquire for any one, and he reluctantly postponed his purpose till the morning. But he could not retire to rest just yet.
那天晚上十一点，他在一家旅馆订了一张床位，抵达后立即将地址电报给父亲，然后走到桑德伯恩的街道上。现在已经来不及去拜访或询问任何人了，他不情愿地将他的目的推迟到早上。但他现在还不能退休休息。

This fashionable watering-place, with its eastern and its western stations, its piers, its groves of pines, its promenades, and its covered gardens, was, to Angel Clare, like a fairy place suddenly created by the stroke of a wand, and allowed to get a little dusty. An outlying eastern tract of the enormous Egdon Waste was close at hand, yet on the very verge of that tawny piece of antiquity such a glittering novelty as this pleasure city had chosen to spring up. Within the space of a mile from its outskirts every irregularity of the soil was prehistoric, every channel an undisturbed British trackway; not a sod having been turned there since the days of the Caesars. Yet the exotic had grown here, suddenly as the prophet’s gourd; and had drawn hither Tess.
这个时尚的海滨胜地，有东西站、码头、松树林、海滨长廊和带顶棚的花园，对安吉尔·克莱尔来说，就像是魔杖一挥突然创造出来的仙境，允许有点灰尘。巨大的埃格顿废土的东部边远地区近在咫尺，然而就在这片黄褐色的古代遗迹的边缘，这座欢乐之城却选择了如此闪闪发光的新奇事物。在距其郊区一英里的范围内，每一个不规则的土壤都是史前的，每条河道都是未受干扰的英国轨道；自凯撒时代以来，这里就没有翻过一粒草皮。然而，异国情调突然在这里生长起来，就像先知的葫芦一样；并把苔丝吸引到这里来。

By the midnight lamps he went up and down the winding way of this new world in an old one, and could discern between the trees and against the stars the lofty roofs, chimneys, gazebos, and towers of the numerous fanciful residences of which the place was composed. It was a city of detached mansions; a Mediterranean lounging-place on the English Channel; and as seen now by night it seemed even more imposing than it was.
借着午夜的灯光，他在这个旧世界的新世界的蜿蜒道路上走来走去，可以在树林和星星的映衬下辨认出高耸的屋顶、烟囱、凉亭和塔楼，那里有无数奇特的住宅。是组成的。这是一座拥有独立宅邸的城市。英吉利海峡上的地中海休闲场所；从现在的夜景来看，它似乎比实际情况更加雄伟。

The sea was near at hand, but not intrusive; it murmured, and he thought it was the pines; the pines murmured in precisely the same tones, and he thought they were the sea.
大海就在眼前，但并不侵扰；它在低语，他以为是松树的声音。松树发出同样的声音，他以为那是大海。

Where could Tess possibly be, a cottage-girl, his young wife, amidst all this wealth and fashion? The more he pondered, the more was he puzzled. Were there any cows to milk here? There certainly were no fields to till. She was most probably engaged to do something in one of these large houses; and he sauntered along, looking at the chamber-windows and their lights going out one by one, and wondered which of them might be hers.
苔丝可能在哪里，一个乡村女孩，他年轻的妻子，在这一切财富和时尚之中？他越想，就越疑惑。这里有奶牛可以挤奶吗？肯定没有田地可耕。她很可能正忙着在这些大房子中的一栋里做点什么。他悠闲地走着，看着房间的窗户和一扇一扇熄灭的灯，想知道哪扇可能是她的。

Conjecture was useless, and just after twelve o’clock he entered and went to bed. Before putting out his light he re-read Tess’s impassioned letter. Sleep, however, he could not—so near her, yet so far from her—and he continually lifted the window-blind and regarded the backs of the opposite houses, and wondered behind which of the sashes she reposed at that moment.
猜测是没有用的，十二点刚过，他就进去睡觉了。在熄灭灯之前，他重读了苔丝慷慨激昂的信。然而，他睡不着——离她那么近，又那么远——他不断地掀起百叶窗，看着对面房子的后面，想知道她此刻正靠在哪一个窗框后面。

He might almost as well have sat up all night. In the morning he arose at seven, and shortly after went out, taking the direction of the chief post-office. At the door he met an intelligent postman coming out with letters for the morning delivery.
他可能还不如整晚都坐着呢。早上他七点钟起床，不久就按照邮局总局的指示出去了。在门口，他遇到了一位聪明的邮递员，他带着早上要投递的信件出来。

‘Do you know the address of a Mrs Clare?’ asked Angel. The postman shook his head.
“你知道克莱尔夫人的地址吗？”安吉尔问道。邮递员摇摇头。

Then, remembering that she would have been likely to continue the use of her maiden name, Clare said—
然后，克莱尔想起她很可能会继续使用她的婚前姓氏，她说——

‘Of a Miss Durbeyfield?’
“德北菲尔德小姐的？”

‘Durbeyfield?’
“德北菲尔德？”

This also was strange to the postman addressed.
这对邮递员来说也很奇怪。

‘There’s visitors coming and going every day, as you know, sir,’ he said; ‘and without the name of the house ‘tis impossible to find ‘em.’
“正如你所知，先生，每天都有游客来来往往，”他说。 “如果没有房子的名字，就不可能找到他们。”

One of his comrades hastening out at that moment, the name was repeated to him.
这时，他的一位战友急忙跑了出来，有人向他重复了这个名字。

‘I know no name of Durbeyfield; but there is the name of d’Urberville at The Herons,’ said the second.
“我不知道德北菲尔德的名字；但苍鹭旅馆里有德伯维尔的名字。”第二个说道。

‘That’s it!’ cried Clare, pleased to think that she had reverted to the real pronunciation. ‘What place is The Herons?’
“就是这样！”克莱尔喊道，她很高兴自己已经恢复了真正的发音。 “苍鹭是什么地方？”

‘A stylish lodging-house. ‘Tis all lodging-houses here, bless ‘ee.’
“一座时尚的旅馆。 “这里都是旅馆，上帝保佑‘ee’。”

Clare received directions how to find the house, and hastened thither, arriving with the milkman. The Herons, though an ordinary villa, stood in its own grounds, and was certainly the last place in which one would have expected to find lodgings, so private was its appearance. If poor Tess was a servant here, as he feared, she would go to the back-door to that milkman, and he was inclined to go thither also. However, in his doubts he turned to the front, and rang.
克莱尔收到了如何找到房子的指示，于是和送奶工一起赶到了那里。海伦别墅虽然是一栋普通的别墅，但却有自己的场地，而且它的外观如此私密，肯定是人们最不可能期望找到住宿的地方。如果可怜的苔丝是这里的仆人，正如他担心的那样，她就会从后门到那个送奶工那里去，而他也倾向于去那里。然而，在疑惑之中，他转向前方，按响了电话。

The hour being early, the landlady herself opened the door. Clare inquired for Teresa d’Urberville or Durbeyfield.
时间还早，房东太太亲自开门。克莱尔询问特蕾莎·德伯维尔或德北菲尔德的情况。

‘Mrs d’Urberville?’
“德伯维尔夫人？”

‘Yes.’
'是的。'

Tess, then, passed as a married woman, and he felt glad, even though she had not adopted his name.
苔丝成了已婚妇女，他感到很高兴，尽管她没有采用他的名字。

‘Will you kindly tell her that a relative is anxious to see her?’
“你能告诉她，有一位亲戚急于见她吗？”

‘It is rather early. What name shall I give, sir?’
‘现在还很早。先生，我该起什么名字呢？

‘Angel.’
'天使。'

‘Mr Angel?’
“安吉尔先生？”

‘No; Angel. It is my Christian name. She’ll understand.’
'不;天使。这是我的教名。她会理解的。

‘I’ll see if she is awake.’
“我去看看她是否醒了。”

He was shown into the front room—the dining-room—and looked out through the spring curtains at the little lawn, and the rhododendrons and other shrubs upon it. Obviously her position was by no means so bad as he had feared, and it crossed his mind that she must somehow have claimed and sold the jewels to attain it. He did not blame her for one moment. Soon his sharpened ear detected footsteps upon the stairs, at which his heart thumped so painfully that he could hardly stand firm. ‘Dear me! what will she think of me, so altered as I am!’ he said to himself; and the door opened.
他被领进前室——餐厅——透过弹簧窗帘看到外面的小草坪，以及上面的杜鹃花和其他灌木。显然，她的处境绝没有他担心的那么糟糕，他突然想到，她一定是通过某种方式认领并出售了珠宝才能获得这一地位。他一刻也没有责怪她。很快，他敏锐的耳朵就察觉到了楼梯上的脚步声，他的心剧烈地跳动着，几乎站不稳。 '亲爱的我！她会怎么看我，我已经变了这么多！”他自言自语道。门开了。

Tess appeared on the threshold—not at all as he had expected to see her—bewilderingly otherwise, indeed. Her great natural beauty was, if not heightened, rendered more obvious by her attire. She was loosely wrapped in a cashmere dressing-gown of gray-white, embroidered in half-mourning tints, and she wore slippers of the same hue. Her neck rose out of a frill of down, and her well-remembered cable of dark-brown hair was partially coiled up in a mass at the back of her head and partly hanging on her shoulder—the evident result of haste.
苔丝出现在门槛上——完全不像他所期望的那样——确实令人困惑。她的服装即使没有增强她的自然美，也使她更加明显。她宽松地裹着一件灰白色的羊绒晨衣，上面绣着半丧色调，脚上穿着同样颜色的拖鞋。她的脖子从羽绒褶边中升起，她那一头深棕色的头发被人们所熟知，一部分在脑后盘成一团，一部分垂在肩上——这显然是匆忙的结果。

He had held out his arms, but they had fallen again to his side; for she had not come forward, remaining still in the opening of the doorway. Mere yellow skeleton that he was now, he felt the contrast between them, and thought his appearance distasteful to her.
他伸出双臂，但它们又落到了他的身边。因为她没有上前，一动不动地站在门口。现在的他只是一具黄骷髅，他感受到了他们之间的对比，并认为他的外表令她厌恶。

‘Tess!’ he said huskily, ‘can you forgive me for going away? Can’t you—come to me? How do you get to be—like this?’
“苔丝！”他沙哑地说，“你能原谅我的离开吗？你不能——到我这里来吗？你怎么会变成这样？

‘It is too late,’ said she, her voice sounding hard through the room, her eyes shining unnaturally.
“太晚了，”她说，她的声音在房间里听起来很严厉，她的眼睛不自然地闪闪发光。

‘I did not think rightly of you—I did not see you as you were!’ he continued to plead. ‘I have learnt to since, dearest Tessy mine!’
“我没有正确地看待你——我没有看到你本来的样子！”他继续恳求道。 “从那以后我就学会了，我最亲爱的泰西！”

‘Too late, too late!’ she said, waving her hand in the impatience of a person whose tortures cause every instant to seem an hour. ‘Don’t come close to me, Angel! No—you must not. Keep away.’
“太晚了，太晚了！”她一边说，一边不耐烦地挥舞着手，就像一个饱受折磨的人，每一刻都像是一个小时。 ‘别靠近我，天使！不——你一定不能。远离。'

‘But don’t you love me, my dear wife, because I have been so pulled down by illness? You are not so fickle—I am come on purpose for you—my mother and father will welcome you now!’
“但是，我亲爱的妻子，你难道不爱我吗，因为我已经被疾病压垮了？”你没那么善变，我是特意为你而来的，我的父母现在就欢迎你了！”

‘Yes—O, yes, yes! But I say, I say it is too late.’
‘是的——哦，是的，是的！但我说，我说已经太晚了。

She seemed to feel like a fugitive in a dream, who tries to move away, but cannot. ‘Don’t you know all—don’t you know it? Yet how do you come here if you do not know?’
她感觉自己就像是梦中的逃亡者，想要逃走，却无法逃走。 ‘你难道不知道一切吗——你不知道吗？但如果你不知道，你怎么会来这里呢？

‘I inquired here and there, and I found the way.’
“我到处询问，终于找到了方法。”

‘I waited and waited for you,’ she went on, her tones suddenly resuming their old fluty pathos. ‘But you did not come! And I wrote to you, and you did not come! He kept on saying you would never come any more, and that I was a foolish woman. He was very kind to me, and to mother, and to all of us after father’s death. He—‘
“我等啊等，等你。”她继续说道，语气突然又恢复了往常的轻柔悲情。 ‘但是你没有来！我写信给你，你却没有来！他一直说你再也不会来了，还说我是个愚蠢的女人。他对我、母亲以及父亲去世后的我们所有人都非常友善。他-'

‘I don’t understand.’
'我不明白。'

‘He has won me back to him.’
“他把我重新赢回了他身边。”

Clare looked at her keenly, then, gathering her meaning, flagged like one plague-stricken, and his glance sank; it fell on her hands, which, once rosy, were now white and more delicate.
克莱尔敏锐地看着她，然后，明白了她的意思，他的眼神像一个遭受瘟疫的人一样萎靡不振，他的目光沉了下来。它落在她的手上，原本红润的手现在变得洁白，更加娇嫩。

She continued—
她继续说——

‘He is upstairs. I hate him now, because he told me a lie—that you would not come again; and you HAVE come! These clothes are what he’s put upon me: I didn’t care what he did wi’ me! But—will you go away, Angel, please, and never come any more?’
‘他在楼上。我现在恨他，因为他对我撒了谎——你不会再来了；你来了！这些衣服是他给我穿的：我不在乎他对我做了什么！但是——安吉尔，你能走开吗，再也不要来了吗？

They stood fixed, their baffled hearts looking out of their eyes with a joylessness pitiful to see. Both seemed to implore something to shelter them from reality.
他们一动不动地站着，困惑的心从眼中流露出一种可怜兮兮的悲伤​​。两人似乎都在祈求有什么东西可以让他们远离现实。

‘Ah—it is my fault!’ said Clare.
“啊——都是我的错！”克莱尔说。

But he could not get on. Speech was as inexpressive as silence. But he had a vague consciousness of one thing, though it was not clear to him till later; that his original Tess had spiritually ceased to recognize the body before him as hers—allowing it to drift, like a corpse upon the current, in a direction dissociated from its living will.
但他无法继续前进。言语就像沉默一样缺乏表达力。但他隐隐约约地意识到一件事，虽然直到后来他才明白：他原来的苔丝在精神上已经不再承认他面前的身体是她的——任由它漂流，就像水流中的尸体一样，朝着与其生命意志分离的方向漂流。

A few instants passed, and he found that Tess was gone. His face grew colder and more shrunken as he stood concentrated on the moment, and a minute or two after, he found himself in the street, walking along he did not know whither.
过了一会儿，他发现苔丝已经不见了。当他全神贯注地站在那里时，他的脸色变得更冷，更萎缩，一两分钟后，他发现自己在街上，走着，不知道要去哪里。

LVI
左心室指数

Mrs Brooks, the lady who was the householder at The Herons and owner of all the handsome furniture, was not a person of an unusually curious turn of mind. She was too deeply materialized, poor woman, by her long and enforced bondage to that arithmetical demon Profit-and-Loss, to retain much curiousity for its own sake, and apart from possible lodgers’ pockets. Nevertheless, the visit of Angel Clare to her well-paying tenants, Mr and Mrs d’Urberville, as she deemed them, was sufficiently exceptional in point of time and manner to reinvigorate the feminine proclivity which had been stifled down as useless save in its bearings to the letting trade.
布鲁克斯太太是苍鹭旅馆的女主人，也是所有漂亮家具的主人，她并不是一个有着异常好奇心的人。她是一个太物质化的可怜女人，长期受着算术恶魔“损益”的束缚，除了可能的房客的口袋之外，她无法为了好奇心本身而保留太多的好奇心。尽管如此，安吉尔·克莱尔对她的高薪房客德伯维尔先生和夫人的拜访，在她看来，在时间和方式上都是非常特殊的，足以重振女性的倾向，这种倾向一直被压抑为无用的，除了它的租赁贸易的轴承。

Tess had spoken to her husband from the doorway, without entering the dining-room, and Mrs Brooks, who stood within the partly-closed door of her own sitting-room at the back of the passage, could hear fragments of the conversation—if conversation it could be called—between those two wretched souls. She heard Tess re-ascend the stairs to the first floor, and the departure of Clare, and the closing of the front door behind him. Then the door of the room above was shut, and Mrs Brooks knew that Tess had re-entered her apartment. As the young lady was not fully dressed, Mrs Brooks knew that she would not emerge again for some time.
苔丝在门口和她丈夫说话，没有进入餐厅，布鲁克斯太太站在过道后面她自己起居室半关着的门里，可以听到谈话的片段——如果这可以称之为对话——两个可怜的灵魂之间的对话。她听到苔丝重新登上楼梯到一楼，克莱尔离开，前门在他身后关上。然后楼上房间的门关上了，布鲁克斯太太知道苔丝又回到了她的公寓。由于这位年轻女士还没有穿好衣服，布鲁克斯夫人知道她在一段时间内不会再次出现。

She accordingly ascended the stairs softly, and stood at the door of the front room—a drawing-room, connected with the room immediately behind it (which was a bedroom) by folding-doors in the common manner. This first floor, containing Mrs Brooks’s best apartments, had been taken by the week by the d’Urbervilles. The back room was now in silence; but from the drawing-room there came sounds.
于是她轻手轻脚地走上楼梯，站在前屋的门口——前屋是客厅，与后面的房间（卧室）按惯例用折叠门相连。一楼是布鲁克斯夫人最好的公寓，一周前就被德伯家占据了。里屋现在一片寂静。但客厅里传来了声音。

All that she could at first distinguish of them was one syllable, continually repeated in a low note of moaning, as if it came from a soul bound to some Ixionian wheel—
她一开始只能辨认出一个音节，不断地以低沉的呻吟声重复着，仿佛它来自一个被束缚在某个伊克西奥尼亚轮子上的灵魂——

‘O—O—O!’
“噢——噢——噢！”

Then a silence, then a heavy sigh, and again—
然后是一阵沉默，然后是一声重叹，然后又——

‘O—O—O!’
“噢——噢——噢！”

The landlady looked through the keyhole. Only a small space of the room inside was visible, but within that space came a corner of the breakfast table, which was already spread for the meal, and also a chair beside. Over the seat of the chair Tess’s face was bowed, her posture being a kneeling one in front of it; her hands were clasped over her head, the skirts of her dressing-gown and the embroidery of her night-gown flowed upon the floor behind her, and her stockingless feet, from which the slippers had fallen, protruded upon the carpet. It was from her lips that came the murmur of unspeakable despair.
女房东从钥匙孔往里看。房间里只能看到一小块空间，但那块空间里有早餐桌的一角，早餐桌已经铺好了，旁边还有一把椅子。苔丝的脸埋在椅子的座位上，她的姿势是跪在椅子前面。她的双手抱在头上，晨衣的裙摆和睡衣的刺绣飘落在她身后的地板上，她没穿袜子的脚（拖鞋从上面掉下来）伸出在地毯上。从她的嘴里，传来了难以言喻的绝望的低语。

Then a man’s voice from the adjoining bedroom—
然后隔壁卧室传来一个男人的声音——

‘What’s the matter?’
'怎么了？'

She did not answer, but went on, in a tone which was a soliloquy rather than an exclamation, and a dirge rather than a soliloquy. Mrs Brooks could only catch a portion:
她没有回答，而是继续说下去，语气与其说是感叹，不如说是独白；与其说是独白，不如说是挽歌。布鲁克斯夫人只能听懂一部分：

‘And then my dear, dear husband came home to me ... and I did not know it! ... And you had used your cruel persuasion upon me ... you did not stop using it—no—you did not stop! My little sisters and brothers and my mother’s needs—they were the things you moved me by ... and you said my husband would never come back—never; and you taunted me, and said what a simpleton I was to expect him! ... And at last I believed you and gave way! ... And then he came back! Now he is gone. Gone a second time, and I have lost him now for ever ... and he will not love me the littlest bit ever any more—only hate me! ... O yes, I have lost him now—again because of—you!’ In writhing, with her head on the chair, she turned her face towards the door, and Mrs Brooks could see the pain upon it, and that her lips were bleeding from the clench of her teeth upon them, and that the long lashes of her closed eyes stuck in wet tags to her cheeks. She continued: ‘And he is dying—he looks as if he is dying! ... And my sin will kill him and not kill me! ... O, you have torn my life all to pieces ... made me be what I prayed you in pity not to make me be again! ... My own true husband will never, never—O God—I can’t bear this!—I cannot!’
“然后我亲爱的、亲爱的丈夫回到我身边……而我却浑然不知！ ……而你对我使用了残酷的说服……你没有停止使用它——不——你没有停止！我的小姐妹和兄弟以及我母亲的需要——它们是你感动我的东西……你说我的丈夫永远不会回来——永远不会；你还嘲笑我，说我真是个傻瓜，居然会期待他！ ……最后我相信了你并屈服了！ ……然后他就回来了！现在他走了。第二次离开后，我就永远失去了他……他再也不会爱我了——只会恨我！ “哦，是的，我现在失去了他——再次因为——你！”她把头靠在椅子上，扭动着身子，把脸转向门，布鲁克斯太太可以看到上面的痛苦，她的她的嘴唇因牙齿咬紧而流血，闭着眼睛的长睫毛湿漉漉地粘在脸颊上。她继续说道：“他快要死了——他看起来好像快要死了！” ……我的罪会杀死他而不是杀死我！ ……哦，你把我的生命撕成了碎片……让我成为了我祈求你怜悯的人，你不再让我成为这样的人了！ ......我自己真正的丈夫永远不会，永远不会——上帝啊——我不能忍受这个！——我不能！

There were more and sharper words from the man; then a sudden rustle; she had sprung to her feet. Mrs Brooks, thinking that the speaker was coming to rush out of the door, hastily retreated down the stairs.
那人的话语越来越多，也越来越尖锐。然后突然一阵沙沙声；她猛地站了起来。布鲁克斯夫人以为说话者是冲出门外，连忙退下楼梯。

She need not have done so, however, for the door of the sitting-room was not opened. But Mrs Brooks felt it unsafe to watch on the landing again, and entered her own parlour below.
然而，她本来不必这样做，因为客厅的门没有打开。但布鲁克斯夫人觉得再次在楼梯平台上观看不安全，于是进入了楼下她自己的客厅。

She could hear nothing through the floor, although she listened intently, and thereupon went to the kitchen to finish her interrupted breakfast. Coming up presently to the front room on the ground floor she took up some sewing, waiting for her lodgers to ring that she might take away the breakfast, which she meant to do herself, to discover what was the matter if possible. Overhead, as she sat, she could now hear the floorboards slightly creak, as if some one were walking about, and presently the movement was explained by the rustle of garments against the banisters, the opening and the closing of the front door, and the form of Tess passing to the gate on her way into the street. She was fully dressed now in the walking costume of a well-to-do young lady in which she had arrived, with the sole addition that over her hat and black feathers a veil was drawn.
尽管她聚精会神地听着，但地板上却听不到任何声音，于是她就去厨房吃完被中断的早餐。不久，她来到一楼的前厅，开始做一些针线活，等待她的房客打电话通知她可以把早餐拿走，她打算自己做，如果可能的话，看看到底出了什么问题。当她坐在头顶上时，她现在可以听到地板轻微的吱吱声，好像有人在走来走去，不久之后，这种运动可以通过衣服靠在栏杆上的沙沙声、前门的打开和关闭以及门的声音来解释。苔丝上街时经过大门的样子。她现在穿着一身她来时的富裕年轻女士的行走服装，唯一的补充是，她的帽子和黑色羽毛上罩着一层面纱。

Mrs Brooks had not been able to catch any word of farewell, temporary or otherwise, between her tenants at the door above. They might have quarrelled, or Mr d’Urberville might still be asleep, for he was not an early riser.
布鲁克斯太太听不到楼上房客之间的任何告别声，无论是暂时的还是其他的。他们可能吵架了，或者德伯维尔先生可能还在睡觉，因为他不早起。

She went into the back room, which was more especially her own apartment, and continued her sewing there. The lady lodger did not return, nor did the gentleman ring his bell. Mrs Brooks pondered on the delay, and on what probable relation the visitor who had called so early bore to the couple upstairs. In reflecting she leant back in her chair.
她走进后面的房间，尤其是她自己的公寓，继续在那里做缝纫工作。女房客没有回来，男主人也没有按门铃。布鲁克斯太太思考着这次延误，以及这么早就打电话来的访客与楼上的夫妇可能有什么关系。她向后靠在椅子上思考着。

As she did so her eyes glanced casually over the ceiling till they were arrested by a spot in the middle of its white surface which she had never noticed there before. It was about the size of a wafer when she first observed it, but it speedily grew as large as the palm of her hand, and then she could perceive that it was red. The oblong white ceiling, with this scarlet blot in the midst, had the appearance of a gigantic ace of hearts.
当她这样做的时候，她的眼睛随意地扫视着天花板，直到被白色表面中间的一个点吸引住了，这是她以前从未注意到的。刚开始看到的时候，它只有晶圆那么大，但很快，它就长到了手掌那么大，然后她就发现它是红色的。长方形的白色天花板，中间有一个猩红色的斑点，看起来就像一张巨大的红桃A。

Mrs Brooks had strange qualms of misgiving. She got upon the table, and touched the spot in the ceiling with her fingers. It was damp, and she fancied that it was a blood stain.
布鲁克斯夫人有一种奇怪的疑虑。她走到桌子上，用手指触摸天花板上的地方。很潮湿，她以为那是血迹。

Descending from the table, she left the parlour, and went upstairs, intending to enter the room overhead, which was the bedchamber at the back of the drawing-room. But, nerveless woman as she had now become, she could not bring herself to attempt the handle. She listened. The dead silence within was broken only by a regular beat.
她从桌子上下来，离开客厅，上楼，打算进入头顶的房间，也就是客厅后面的卧室。但是，现在的她已经变得毫无勇气了，她无法让自己去尝试把手。她听着。里面死一般的寂静，只有一阵有规律的节拍声打破。

Drip, drip, drip.
滴，滴，滴。

Mrs Brooks hastened downstairs, opened the front door, and ran into the street. A man she knew, one of the workmen employed at an adjoining villa, was passing by, and she begged him to come in and go upstairs with her; she feared something had happened to one of her lodgers. The workman assented, and followed her to the landing.
布鲁克斯太太赶紧下楼，打开前门，跑到街上。一个她认识的男人路过，他是毗邻别墅的一名工人，她恳求他进来和她一起上楼；她担心她的一位房客出了什么事。工人答应了，跟着她来到了楼梯平台。

She opened the door of the drawing-room, and stood back for him to pass in, entering herself behind him. The room was empty; the breakfast—a substantial repast of coffee, eggs, and a cold ham—lay spread upon the table untouched, as when she had taken it up, excepting that the carving-knife was missing. She asked the man to go through the folding-doors into the adjoining room.
她打开客厅的门，站在后面等他进去，自己跟在他后面进去。房间里空无一人。早餐——丰盛的咖啡、鸡蛋和冷火腿——原封不动地摊在桌子上，就像她拿起它时一样，只是切肉刀不见了。她请那个男人穿过折叠门进入隔壁的房间。

He opened the doors, entered a step or two, and came back almost instantly with a rigid face. ‘My good God, the gentleman in bed is dead! I think he has been hurt with a knife—a lot of blood had run down upon the floor!’
他打开门，走了一两步，几乎立刻就回来了，表情僵硬。 “天哪，床上的那位先生死了！”我想他是被刀伤了——地板上流了很多血！”

The alarm was soon given, and the house which had lately been so quiet resounded with the tramp of many footsteps, a surgeon among the rest. The wound was small, but the point of the blade had touched the heart of the victim, who lay on his back, pale, fixed, dead, as if he had scarcely moved after the infliction of the blow. In a quarter of an hour the news that a gentleman who was a temporary visitor to the town had been stabbed in his bed, spread through every street and villa of the popular watering-place.
警报很快就响了，刚刚安静的屋子里响起了许多脚步声，其中有一位外科医生的脚步声。伤口很小，但刀尖触及了受害者的心脏，受害者仰面躺着，脸色苍白，一动不动，死气沉沉，仿佛在遭受这一击之后几乎没有动过。一刻钟之内，一位临时来镇上的绅士在床上被刺伤的消息就传遍了这个受欢迎的酒吧的每条街道和别墅。

LVII
左七

Meanwhile Angel Clare had walked automatically along the way by which he had come, and, entering his hotel, sat down over the breakfast, staring at nothingness. He went on eating and drinking unconsciously till on a sudden he demanded his bill; having paid which, he took his dressing-bag in his hand, the only luggage he had brought with him, and went out.
与此同时，安吉尔·克莱尔已经自动地沿着他来的路走着，走进旅馆，坐下来吃早餐，眼睛盯着虚无。他无意识地继续吃喝，直到突然索要账单。付完钱后，他手里拿着他随身携带的唯一行李——梳妆袋，出了门。

At the moment of his departure a telegram was handed to him—a few words from his mother, stating that they were glad to know his address, and informing him that his brother Cuthbert had proposed to and been accepted by Mercy Chant.
在他离开的那一刻，一封电报交给了他——他母亲的几句话，说他们很高兴知道他的地址，并告诉他，他的兄弟卡斯伯特已经向梅西·钱特求婚并被梅西·钱特接受了。

Clare crumpled up the paper and followed the route to the station; reaching it, he found that there would be no train leaving for an hour and more. He sat down to wait, and having waited a quarter of an hour felt that he could wait there no longer. Broken in heart and numbed, he had nothing to hurry for; but he wished to get out of a town which had been the scene of such an experience, and turned to walk to the first station onward, and let the train pick him up there.
克莱尔把纸揉成一团，沿着去车站的路线走。到达目的地后，他发现一个多小时内都没有火车出发。他坐下来等待，等了一刻钟，他觉得自己不能再等了。他心碎又麻木，没有什么可急的。但他想离开这个曾经有过这样经历的小镇，于是转身步行到第一个车站，让火车去接他。

The highway that he followed was open, and at a little distance dipped into a valley, across which it could be seen running from edge to edge. He had traversed the greater part of this depression, and was climbing the western acclivity when, pausing for breath, he unconsciously looked back. Why he did so he could not say, but something seemed to impel him to the act. The tape-like surface of the road diminished in his rear as far as he could see, and as he gazed a moving spot intruded on the white vacuity of its perspective.
他所走的公路是开放的，在不远的地方就陷入了一个山谷，可以看到它从一个边缘延伸到另一个边缘。他已经走过了这个洼地的大部分，正在攀登西边的斜坡时，他停下来喘口气，不自觉地回头看了一眼。他说不上来为什么要这么做，但似乎有什么东西促使他这么做。在他所能看到的范围内，像胶带一样的道路表面在他的后方逐渐缩小，当他凝视时，一个移动的点闯入了视野中的白色空虚。

It was a human figure running. Clare waited, with a dim sense that somebody was trying to overtake him.
那是一个正在奔跑的人影。克莱尔等待着，隐约感觉到有人试图超越他。

The form descending the incline was a woman’s, yet so entirely was his mind blinded to the idea of his wife’s following him that even when she came nearer he did not recognize her under the totally changed attire in which he now beheld her. It was not till she was quite close that he could believe her to be Tess.
从斜坡上下来的人影是一个女人，但他完全没有意识到他的妻子正在跟着他，以至于即使当她走近时，他也没有认出她穿着完全不同的衣服。直到她走得很近，他才相信她就是苔丝。

‘I saw you—turn away from the station—just before I got there—and I have been following you all this way!’
“就在我到达那里之前，我看到了你——从车站转身离开——而我一直跟着你！”

She was so pale, so breathless, so quivering in every muscle, that he did not ask her a single question, but seizing her hand, and pulling it within his arm, he led her along. To avoid meeting any possible wayfarers he left the high road and took a footpath under some fir-trees. When they were deep among the moaning boughs he stopped and looked at her inquiringly.
她脸色苍白，气喘吁吁，每一块肌肉都在颤抖，他没有问她任何问题，而是抓住她的手，把它拉进自己的臂弯里，牵着她走。为了避免遇到任何可能的行人，他离开了大路，走上了一些枞树下的小路。当他们深入到呻吟的树枝中时，他停了下来，询问地看着她。

‘Angel,’ she said, as if waiting for this, ‘do you know what I have been running after you for? To tell you that I have killed him!’ A pitiful white smile lit her face as she spoke.
“天使，”她说道，仿佛在等待这一刻，“你知道我一直在追你吗？告诉你，我杀了他！”说着，她的脸上浮现出可怜兮兮的白笑。

‘What!’ said he, thinking from the strangeness of her manner that she was in some delirium.
“什么！”他说，从她奇怪的举止中，他认为她处于某种精神错乱之中。

‘I have done it—I don’t know how,’ she continued. ‘Still, I owed it to you, and to myself, Angel. I feared long ago, when I struck him on the mouth with my glove, that I might do it some day for the trap he set for me in my simple youth, and his wrong to you through me. He has come between us and ruined us, and now he can never do it any more. I never loved him at all, Angel, as I loved you. You know it, don’t you? You believe it? You didn’t come back to me, and I was obliged to go back to him. Why did you go away—why did you—when I loved you so? I can’t think why you did it. But I don’t blame you; only, Angel, will you forgive me my sin against you, now I have killed him? I thought as I ran along that you would be sure to forgive me now I have done that. It came to me as a shining light that I should get you back that way. I could not bear the loss of you any longer—you don’t know how entirely I was unable to bear your not loving me! Say you do now, dear, dear husband; say you do, now I have killed him!’
“我已经做到了——我不知道是怎么做到的，”她继续说道。 “不过，我还是欠你，也欠我自己，安吉尔。很久以前，当我用手套打他的嘴时，我就担心有一天我会因为他在我单纯的青年时代给我设下的陷阱，以及他通过我对你的错误而这样做。他挡在我们中间，毁了我们，现在他再也不能这么做了。我从来没有爱过他，天使，就像我爱你一样。你知道的，不是吗？你相信吗？你没有回到我身边，我也不得不回到他身边。当我如此爱你时，你为什么要离开——为什么你要离开？我不明白你为什么这么做。但我不怪你；只是，天使，现在我杀了他，你能原谅我对你犯下的罪吗？我边跑边想，既然我已经这么做了，你一定会原谅我的。我突然灵光一闪，知道我应该以这种方式把你带回来。我再也无法忍受失去你了——你不知道我是多么无法忍受你不爱我！现在就说吧，亲爱的、亲爱的丈夫；你说吧，现在我已经杀了他了！”

‘I do love you, Tess—O, I do—it is all come back!’ he said, tightening his arms round her with fervid pressure. ‘But how do you mean—you have killed him?’
“我真的爱你，苔丝——哦，我真的——一切都回来了！”他一边说，一边用热情的压力紧紧地抱住她。 “但是你是什么意思——你杀了他？”

‘I mean that I have,’ she murmured in a reverie.
“我的意思是我有，”她若有所思地低声说道。

‘What, bodily? Is he dead?’
‘什么，身体上的？他死了吗？

‘Yes. He heard me crying about you, and he bitterly taunted me; and called you by a foul name; and then I did it. My heart could not bear it. He had nagged me about you before. And then I dressed myself and came away to find you.’
'是的。他听到我为你哭泣，他狠狠地嘲笑我；并用恶名辱骂你；然后我就这么做了。我的心无法承受。他以前曾跟我唠叨过你的事。然后我穿好衣服就去找你了。

By degrees he was inclined to believe that she had faintly attempted, at least, what she said she had done; and his horror at her impulse was mixed with amazement at the strength of her affection for himself, and at the strangeness of its quality, which had apparently extinguished her moral sense altogether. Unable to realize the gravity of her conduct, she seemed at last content; and he looked at her as she lay upon his shoulder, weeping with happiness, and wondered what obscure strain in the d’Urberville blood had led to this aberration—if it were an aberration. There momentarily flashed through his mind that the family tradition of the coach and murder might have arisen because the d’Urbervilles had been known to do these things. As well as his confused and excited ideas could reason, he supposed that in the moment of mad grief of which she spoke, her mind had lost its balance, and plunged her into this abyss.
渐渐地，他倾向于相信她至少曾隐隐约约地尝试过她所说的那样。他对她的冲动感到恐惧，同时又惊讶于她对自己的感情之强烈，以及这种感情的奇怪性，这显然完全消灭了她的道德感。由于无法意识到自己行为的严重性，她似乎终于满意了。当她躺在他的肩上，他幸福地哭泣时，他看着她，想知道德伯维尔血液中的什么隐秘的压力导致了这种失常——如果这是一种失常的话。他的脑海里突然闪过一个念头：马车和谋杀的家族传统之所以会出现，可能是因为德伯家以做这些事情而闻名。除了他的困惑和兴奋的想法之外，他认为在她所说的疯狂悲伤的那一刻，她的思想失去了平衡，并将她推入了这个深渊。

It was very terrible if true; if a temporary hallucination, sad. But, anyhow, here was this deserted wife of his, this passionately-fond woman, clinging to him without a suspicion that he would be anything to her but a protector. He saw that for him to be otherwise was not, in her mind, within the region of the possible. Tenderness was absolutely dominant in Clare at last. He kissed her endlessly with his white lips, and held her hand, and said—
如果这是真的，那就太可怕了。如果是暂时的幻觉，悲伤。但无论如何，这个被他遗弃的妻子，这个深爱着他的女人，紧紧抓住他，不怀疑他对她来说只是一个保护者。他发现，在她看来，他不可能成为其他人。温柔终于在克莱尔身上占据了绝对的主导地位。他用白唇不停地吻着她，握着她的手，说道——

‘I will not desert you! I will protect you by every means in my power, dearest love, whatever you may have done or not have done!’
‘我不会抛弃你的！我将尽我所能保护你，亲爱的，无论你做了或没有做什么！

They then walked on under the trees, Tess turning her head every now and then to look at him. Worn and unhandsome as he had become, it was plain that she did not discern the least fault in his appearance. To her he was, as of old, all that was perfection, personally and mentally. He was still her Antinous, her Apollo even; his sickly face was beautiful as the morning to her affectionate regard on this day no less than when she first beheld him; for was it not the face of the one man on earth who had loved her purely, and who had believed in her as pure!
然后他们在树下继续前行，苔丝时不时地转过头来看看他。尽管他变得憔悴不堪，又丑陋不堪，但她显然没有看出他外表上有哪怕一丁点的毛病。对她来说，他一如既往，无论是个人还是精神上都是完美的。他仍然是她的安提诺斯，甚至是她的阿波罗；在她这一天深情的注视下，他病态的脸庞美丽如早晨，不亚于她第一次见到他时。因为这不是地球上唯一一个纯粹地爱着她、相信她纯洁的男人的脸吗！

With an instinct as to possibilities, he did not now, as he had intended, make for the first station beyond the town, but plunged still farther under the firs, which here abounded for miles. Each clasping the other round the waist they promenaded over the dry bed of fir-needles, thrown into a vague intoxicating atmosphere at the consciousness of being together at last, with no living soul between them; ignoring that there was a corpse. Thus they proceeded for several miles till Tess, arousing herself, looked about her, and said, timidly—
出于对可能性的本能，他现在并没有像他原本打算的那样，前往镇外的第一个车站，而是深入到了更远的地方，这里的冷杉绵延数英里。他们互相搂着对方的腰，在干燥的冷杉针床上漫步，意识到终于在一起了，他们之间没有任何活生生的灵魂，陷入了一种模糊的令人陶醉的气氛中。忽略了那里有一具尸体。他们就这样走了几英里，直到苔丝醒悟过来，环顾四周，胆怯地说——

‘Are we going anywhere in particular?’
“我们要去什么特别的地方吗？”

‘I don’t know, dearest. Why?’
“我不知道，亲爱的。为什么？'

‘I don’t know.’
'我不知道。'

‘Well, we might walk a few miles further, and when it is evening find lodgings somewhere or other—in a lonely cottage, perhaps. Can you walk well, Tessy?’
“好吧，我们可以再走几英里，到了晚上就在某个地方找个住处——也许是在一座孤独的小屋里。你走路好吗，泰西？

‘O yes! I could walk for ever and ever with your arm round me!’
'哦是啊！只要你搂着我，我就可以永远走下去！”

Upon the whole it seemed a good thing to do. Thereupon they quickened their pace, avoiding high roads, and following obscure paths tending more or less northward. But there was an unpractical vagueness in their movements throughout the day; neither one of them seemed to consider any question of effectual escape, disguise, or long concealment. Their every idea was temporary and unforefending, like the plans of two children.
总的来说，这似乎是一件好事。于是，他们加快了步伐，避开了大路，沿着或多或少偏北的僻静小路前进。但他们一整天的行动却显得不切实际、含糊不清。他们似乎都没有考虑过有效逃跑、伪装或长期隐藏的问题。他们的每一个想法都是暂时的、没有预见性的，就像两个孩子的计划一样。

At mid-day they drew near to a roadside inn, and Tess would have entered it with him to get something to eat, but he persuaded her to remain among the trees and bushes of this half-woodland, half-moorland part of the country till he should come back. Her clothes were of recent fashion; even the ivory-handled parasol that she carried was of a shape unknown in the retired spot to which they had now wandered; and the cut of such articles would have attracted attention in the settle of a tavern. He soon returned, with food enough for half-a-dozen people and two bottles of wine—enough to last them for a day or more, should any emergency arise.
中午时分，他们临近一家路边小旅馆，苔丝本想和他一起进去买点吃的，但他说服她留在这个国家这个半林半沼泽地区的树木和灌木丛中。直到他回来。她的衣服是最近流行的。就连她随身携带的象牙柄阳伞，在他们现在闲逛到的隐秘地点也是不为人所知的。这类文章的剪裁放在酒馆里一定会引起人们的注意。他很快就回来了，带来了足够六人吃的食物和两瓶酒——足够他们维持一天或更长时间，以防发生任何紧急情况。

They sat down upon some dead boughs and shared their meal. Between one and two o’clock they packed up the remainder and went on again.
他们坐在一些枯树枝上，分享着食物。一点到两点之间，他们收拾好剩下的东西，又继续前行。

‘I feel strong enough to walk any distance,’ said she.
“我感觉自己足够强壮，可以走任何距离，”她说。

‘I think we may as well steer in a general way towards the interior of the country, where we can hide for a time, and are less likely to be looked for than anywhere near the coast,’ Clare remarked. ‘Later on, when they have forgotten us, we can make for some port.’
“我认为我们不妨大体转向该国的内陆地区，在那里我们可以躲藏一段时间，而且比海岸附近的任何地方都不太可能被发现，”克莱尔说道。 “稍后，当他们忘记我们时，我们就可以前往某个港口。”

She made no reply to this beyond that of grasping him more tightly, and straight inland they went. Though the season was an English May, the weather was serenely bright, and during the afternoon it was quite warm. Through the latter miles of their walk their footpath had taken them into the depths of the New Forest, and towards evening, turning the corner of a lane, they perceived behind a brook and bridge a large board on which was painted in white letters, ‘This desirable Mansion to be Let Furnished”; particulars following, with directions to apply to some London agents. Passing through the gate they could see the house, an old brick building of regular design and large accommodation.
她没有回答，只是更紧地抱住了他，然后他们径直向内陆走去。虽然现在是英国的五月，但天气却晴朗宁静，下午还很温暖。在他们步行的最后几英里中，他们的小路已经把他们带到了新森林的深处，傍晚时分，拐过一条小巷的拐角处，他们看到一条小溪和一座桥后面有一块大木板，上面画着白色的字母，“这座令人向往的豪宅将出租家具”；详细信息如下，并附有向一些伦敦代理商申请的说明。穿过大门，他们就看到了房子，一座古老的砖砌建筑，设计规矩，住处很大。

‘I know it,’ said Clare. ‘It is Bramshurst Court. You can see that it is shut up, and grass is growing on the drive.’
“我知道，”克莱尔说。 “这是布拉姆赫斯特法院。你可以看到它被关闭了，车道上长满了草。”

‘Some of the windows are open,’ said Tess.
“有些窗户是开着的，”苔丝说。

‘Just to air the rooms, I suppose.’
“我想只是为了让房间通风。”

‘All these rooms empty, and we without a roof to our heads!’
“所有这些房间都是空的，我们没有栖身之所！”

‘You are getting tired, my Tess!’ he said. ‘We’ll stop soon.’ And kissing her sad mouth, he again led her onwards.
“你累了，我的苔丝！”他说。 “我们很快就会停下来。”他亲吻着她悲伤的嘴唇，再次领着她继续前行。

He was growing weary likewise, for they had wandered a dozen or fifteen miles, and it became necessary to consider what they should do for rest. They looked from afar at isolated cottages and little inns, and were inclined to approach one of the latter, when their hearts failed them, and they sheered off. At length their gait dragged, and they stood still.
他也同样感到疲倦，因为他们已经走了十几英里或十五英里，有必要考虑应该做什么休息。他们远远地看着那些偏僻的村舍和小旅馆，想要走近其中的一间，但当他们心灰意冷时，他们就躲开了。最后，他们的脚步拖着脚步，站着不动。

‘Could we sleep under the trees?’ she asked.
“我们可以睡在树下吗？”她问。

He thought the season insufficiently advanced.
他认为赛季还不够提前。

‘I have been thinking of that empty mansion we passed,’ he said. ‘Let us go back towards it again.’
“我一直在想着我们经过的那座空荡荡的宅邸，”他说。 “让我们再次回到正题吧。”

They retraced their steps, but it was half an hour before they stood without the entrance-gate as earlier. He then requested her to stay where she was, whilst he went to see who was within.
他们原路返回，但半个小时后，他们才像先前那样站在大门外。然后他要求她留在原地，而他则去看看里面是谁。

She sat down among the bushes within the gate, and Clare crept towards the house. His absence lasted some considerable time, and when he returned Tess was wildly anxious, not for herself, but for him. He had found out from a boy that there was only an old woman in charge as caretaker, and she only came there on fine days, from the hamlet near, to open and shut the windows. She would come to shut them at sunset. ‘Now, we can get in through one of the lower windows, and rest there,’ said he.
她在门内的灌木丛中坐下，克莱尔蹑手蹑脚地朝房子走去。他离开了相当长一段时间，当他回来时，苔丝非常焦虑，不是为自己，而是为他。他从一个男孩那里得知，只有一位老妇人负责看守，她只在天气好的时候从附近的小村庄过来开关窗户。她会在日落时来关门。 “现在，我们可以从下面的一扇窗户进去，在那里休息，”他说。

Under his escort she went tardily forward to the main front, whose shuttered windows, like sightless eyeballs, excluded the possibility of watchers. The door was reached a few steps further, and one of the windows beside it was open. Clare clambered in, and pulled Tess in after him.
在他的护送下，她缓慢地走到了前线，那里紧闭的窗户就像失明的眼球，排除了旁观者的可能性。再走几步就到了门，旁边的一扇窗户开着。克莱尔爬了上来，把苔丝拉了进去。

Except the hall, the rooms were all in darkness, and they ascended the staircase. Up here also the shutters were tightly closed, the ventilation being perfunctorily done, for this day at least, by opening the hall-window in front and an upper window behind. Clare unlatched the door of a large chamber, felt his way across it, and parted the shutters to the width of two or three inches. A shaft of dazzling sunlight glanced into the room, revealing heavy, old-fashioned furniture, crimson damask hangings, and an enormous four-post bedstead, along the head of which were carved running figures, apparently Atalanta’s race.
除了大厅之外，所有的房间都一片漆黑，他们顺着楼梯而上。这里的百叶窗也紧紧地关着，至少在这一天，通过打开前面的大厅窗户和后面的上层窗户来草率地进行通风。克莱尔打开一间大房间的门，摸索着穿过门，将百叶窗打开两三英寸宽。一束耀眼的阳光射进房间，显露出沉重的老式家具、深红色的锦缎窗帘和一张巨大的四柱床架，床头沿上雕刻着奔跑的人物，显然是亚特兰大的种族。

‘Rest at last!’ said he, setting down his bag and the parcel of viands.
“终于休息了！”他说着，放下了包和一包食物。

They remained in great quietness till the caretaker should have come to shut the windows: as a precaution, putting themselves in total darkness by barring the shutters as before, lest the woman should open the door of their chamber for any casual reason. Between six and seven o’clock she came, but did not approach the wing they were in. They heard her close the windows, fasten them, lock the door, and go away. Then Clare again stole a chink of light from the window, and they shared another meal, till by-and-by they were enveloped in the shades of night which they had no candle to disperse.
他们保持着极大的安静，直到看门人来关上​​窗户：作为预防措施，他们像以前一样关上百叶窗，将自己置于完全黑暗中，以免女人因任何偶然原因打开他们房间的门。六点到七点之间，她来了，但没有靠近他们所在的侧翼。他们听到她关上窗户，锁上窗户，锁上门，然后离开。然后克莱尔又从窗户偷了一丝光亮，他们又一起吃了一顿饭，直到渐渐地他们被笼罩在夜色中，没有蜡烛可以驱散。

LVIII
第五十八期

The night was strangely solemn and still. In the small hours she whispered to him the whole story of how he had walked in his sleep with her in his arms across the Froom stream, at the imminent risk of both their lives, and laid her down in the stone coffin at the ruined abbey. He had never known of that till now.
夜晚出奇的庄严而寂静。凌晨时分，她低声向他讲述了整个故事，讲述了他如何在睡梦中抱着她，冒着生命危险，走过弗鲁姆小溪，把她放在废弃修道院的石棺里。 。直到现在他才知道这一点。

‘Why didn’t you tell me next day?’ he said. ‘It might have prevented much misunderstanding and woe.’
“你为什么第二天不告诉我？”他说。 “这本来可以避免很多误解和灾难。”

‘Don’t think of what’s past!’ said she. ‘I am not going to think outside of now. Why should we! Who knows what to-morrow has in store?’
“别想过去的事！”她说。 “我现在不会考虑外面的事情。我们为什么要这么做！谁知道明天会发生什么？

But it apparently had no sorrow. The morning was wet and foggy, and Clare, rightly informed that the caretaker only opened the windows on fine days, ventured to creep out of their chamber and explore the house, leaving Tess asleep. There was no food on the premises, but there was water, and he took advantage of the fog to emerge from the mansion and fetch tea, bread, and butter from a shop in a little place two miles beyond, as also a small tin kettle and spirit-lamp, that they might get fire without smoke. His re-entry awoke her; and they breakfasted on what he had brought.
但它显然没有悲伤。早晨潮湿多雾，克莱尔正确地得知看门人只在晴天才打开窗户，于是冒险爬出他们的房间，探索房子，留下苔丝睡着了。屋子里没有食物，但有水，他趁着大雾从宅子里出来，到两英里外的一个小地方的商店里买了茶、面包和黄油，还有一个小锡水壶。和酒精灯，这样他们就可以生火而不冒烟。他的重新出现唤醒了她。他们用他带来的东西吃早餐。

They were indisposed to stir abroad, and the day passed, and the night following, and the next, and next; till, almost without their being aware, five days had slipped by in absolute seclusion, not a sight or sound of a human being disturbing their peacefulness, such as it was. The changes of the weather were their only events, the birds of the New Forest their only company. By tacit consent they hardly once spoke of any incident of the past subsequent to their wedding-day. The gloomy intervening time seemed to sink into chaos, over which the present and prior times closed as if it never had been. Whenever he suggested that they should leave their shelter, and go forwards towards Southampton or London, she showed a strange unwillingness to move.
他们不愿意在外面动弹，白天过去了，夜晚又过去了，又是一个又一个。直到，几乎在他们不知不觉中，五天在绝对的与世隔绝中过去了，没有任何人影或声音打扰他们的平静。天气的变化是他们唯一的活动，新森林的鸟儿是他们唯一的陪伴。出于默契，他们在婚礼之后几乎不再谈论过去的任何事件。阴暗的介入时间似乎陷入了混乱，现在和以前的时间都结束了，仿佛从未如此。每当他建议他们离开避难所，前往南安普顿或伦敦时，她就表现出一种奇怪的不愿意移动的态度。

‘Why should we put an end to all that’s sweet and lovely!’ she deprecated. ‘What must come will come.’ And, looking through the shutter-chink: ‘All is trouble outside there; inside here content.’
“我们为什么要结束所有甜蜜可爱的事情呢！”她反对道。 “该来的总会来。”然后，透过百叶窗缝隙看去：“外面都是麻烦；外面都是麻烦。”里面的内容。’

He peeped out also. It was quite true; within was affection, union, error forgiven: outside was the inexorable.
他也向外张望。这是千真万确的。内在是情感、团结、错误得到宽恕；外在是无情的。

‘And—and,’ she said, pressing her cheek against his, ‘I fear that what you think of me now may not last. I do not wish to outlive your present feeling for me. I would rather not. I would rather be dead and buried when the time comes for you to despise me, so that it may never be known to me that you despised me.’
“还有——还有，”她把脸颊贴在他的脸颊上说道，“我担心你现在对我的看法可能不会持续太久。我不想比你现在对我的感情更长久。我宁愿不。当你鄙视我的时候，我宁愿死了并被埋葬，这样我就永远不会知道你鄙视我。

‘I cannot ever despise you.’
“我永远不能鄙视你。”

‘I also hope that. But considering what my life has been, I cannot see why any man should, sooner or later, be able to help despising me.... How wickedly mad I was! Yet formerly I never could bear to hurt a fly or a worm, and the sight of a bird in a cage used often to make me cry.’
‘我也希望如此。但考虑到我的生活，我不明白为什么任何人迟早都会鄙视我……我是多么的疯狂！但以前我从来不忍心伤害一只苍蝇或一条虫子，看到笼子里的鸟常常让我哭泣。

They remained yet another day. In the night the dull sky cleared, and the result was that the old caretaker at the cottage awoke early. The brilliant sunrise made her unusually brisk; she decided to open the contiguous mansion immediately, and to air it thoroughly on such a day. Thus it occurred that, having arrived and opened the lower rooms before six o’clock, she ascended to the bedchambers, and was about to turn the handle of the one wherein they lay. At that moment she fancied she could hear the breathing of persons within. Her slippers and her antiquity had rendered her progress a noiseless one so far, and she made for instant retreat; then, deeming that her hearing might have deceived her, she turned anew to the door and softly tried the handle. The lock was out of order, but a piece of furniture had been moved forward on the inside, which prevented her opening the door more than an inch or two. A stream of morning light through the shutter-chink fell upon the faces of the pair, wrapped in profound slumber, Tess’s lips being parted like a half-opened flower near his cheek. The caretaker was so struck with their innocent appearance, and with the elegance of Tess’s gown hanging across a chair, her silk stockings beside it, the pretty parasol, and the other habits in which she had arrived because she had none else, that her first indignation at the effrontery of tramps and vagabonds gave way to a momentary sentimentality over this genteel elopement, as it seemed. She closed the door, and withdrew as softly as she had come, to go and consult with her neighbours on the odd discovery.
他们又呆了一天。夜晚，阴沉的天空放晴了，结果小屋的老管家早早就醒了。灿烂的日出让她显得异常的轻快；她决定立即将连栋宅邸打开，在这样的日子彻底通风。就这样，她在六点钟之前到达并打开了下面的房间，然后登上了卧室，正要转动他们躺着的那间卧室的把手。那一刻，她仿佛能听到里面有人的呼吸声。到目前为止，她的拖鞋和她的古老使她的前进无声无息，她立即撤退。然后，她认为自己的听力可能欺骗了自己，于是又转向门，轻轻地试了一下把手。锁坏了，但里面的一件家具被向前移动了，这使得她无法打开门超过一两英寸。一缕晨光透过百叶窗的缝隙落在两人的脸上，他们都沉浸在沉睡中，苔丝的嘴唇张开，像一朵半开的花朵靠近他的脸颊。看守人对他们天真的外表、苔丝优雅的礼服、挂在椅子上的长袍、旁边的丝袜、漂亮的阳伞，以及她来到这里时没有的其他习惯感到如此震惊，以至于她的第一个习惯被打动了。对流浪汉和流浪汉的无耻行为的愤慨让位于对这次优雅的私奔的短暂感伤。她关上门，像来时一样轻轻地退出去，去和邻居商量这个奇怪的发现。

Not more than a minute had elapsed after her withdrawal when Tess woke, and then Clare. Both had a sense that something had disturbed them, though they could not say what; and the uneasy feeling which it engendered grew stronger. As soon as he was dressed he narrowly scanned the lawn through the two or three inches of shutter-chink.
退出后不到一分钟，苔丝就醒了，然后克莱尔也醒了。两人都感觉到有什么东西打扰了他们，尽管他们说不出来是什么。随之而来的不安感也越来越强烈。他一穿好衣服，就透过两三英寸的百叶窗缝隙仔细地扫视着草坪。

‘I think we will leave at once,’ said he. ‘It is a fine day. And I cannot help fancying somebody is about the house. At any rate, the woman will be sure to come to-day.’
“我想我们会立即离开，”他说。 ‘这是美好的一天。我情不自禁地想象有人在看这栋房子。无论如何，那个女人今天一定会来的。”

She passively assented, and putting the room in order, they took up the few articles that belonged to them, and departed noiselessly. When they had got into the Forest she turned to take a last look at the house.
她被动的答应了，收拾好房间，他们就拿起了属于自己的几件物品，悄无声息地离开了。当他们进入森林时，她转身最后看了一眼房子。

‘Ah, happy house—goodbye!’ she said. ‘My life can only be a question of a few weeks. Why should we not have stayed there?’
“啊，幸福的家——再见！”她说。 “我的生命只有几个星期的问题。我们为什么不应该呆在那里？

‘Don’t say it, Tess! We shall soon get out of this district altogether. We’ll continue our course as we’ve begun it, and keep straight north. Nobody will think of looking for us there. We shall be looked for at the Wessex ports if we are sought at all. When we are in the north we will get to a port and away.’
“别这么说，苔丝！我们很快就会完全离开这个地区。我们将继续我们已经开始的路线，并一直向北行驶。没有人会想到去那里找我们。如果有人寻找我们，就会在威塞克斯港口寻找我们。当我们到达北方时，我们将到达港口并离开。

Having thus persuaded her, the plan was pursued, and they kept a bee-line northward. Their long repose at the manor-house lent them walking power now; and towards mid-day they found that they were approaching the steepled city of Melchester, which lay directly in their way. He decided to rest her in a clump of trees during the afternoon, and push onward under cover of darkness. At dusk Clare purchased food as usual, and their night march began, the boundary between Upper and Mid-Wessex being crossed about eight o’clock.
说服了她之后，他们就按照计划继续向北行进。他们在庄园里的长时间休息让他们现在有了行走的力量。到了中午，他们发现自己正在接近一座尖塔城梅尔切斯特，而这座城市就在他们的路上。他决定下午让她在树林里休息，然后在夜色的掩护下继续前进。黄昏时克莱尔像往常一样购买食物，他们的夜间行军开始，八点左右跨越上威塞克斯和中威塞克斯之间的边界。

To walk across country without much regard to roads was not new to Tess, and she showed her old agility in the performance. The intercepting city, ancient Melchester, they were obliged to pass through in order to take advantage of the town bridge for crossing a large river that obstructed them. It was about midnight when they went along the deserted streets, lighted fitfully by the few lamps, keeping off the pavement that it might not echo their footsteps. The graceful pile of cathedral architecture rose dimly on their left hand, but it was lost upon them now. Once out of the town they followed the turnpike-road, which after a few miles plunged across an open plain.
不顾道路而穿越乡村对苔丝来说并不新鲜，她在表演中展现了她往日的敏捷。拦截城市，古老的梅尔切斯特，他们必须要穿过，才能利用镇桥跨过阻隔的大河。大约是午夜时分，他们沿着空荡荡的街道走着，几盏灯断断续续地照亮着人行道，以免跟上他们的脚步声。优雅的大教堂建筑群在他们的左手边隐隐约约地升起，但现在他们已经看不见了。出城后，他们沿着收费公路行驶，几英里后，公路穿过一片开阔的平原。

Though the sky was dense with cloud, a diffused light from some fragment of a moon had hitherto helped them a little. But the moon had now sunk, the clouds seemed to settle almost on their heads, and the night grew as dark as a cave. However, they found their way along, keeping as much on the turf as possible that their tread might not resound, which it was easy to do, there being no hedge or fence of any kind. All around was open loneliness and black solitude, over which a stiff breeze blew.
尽管天空乌云密布，但月亮碎片发出的漫射光迄今为止还是给了他们一点帮助。但现在月亮已经下沉了，乌云似乎几乎落在了他们的头上，夜色变得像洞穴一样漆黑。然而，他们找到了前进的道路，尽可能地留在草地上，以免他们的脚步声响起，这很容易做到，因为没有任何形式的树篱或栅栏。周围是空旷的孤独和黑色的孤独，凛冽的微风吹过。

They had proceeded thus gropingly two or three miles further when on a sudden Clare became conscious of some vast erection close in his front, rising sheer from the grass. They had almost struck themselves against it.
他们就这样摸索着向前走了两三英里，突然克莱尔意识到他面前有一个巨大的建筑，从草地上直立起来。他们几乎要反抗它了。

‘What monstrous place is this?’ said Angel.
“这是什么可怕的地方？”安吉尔问道。

‘It hums,’ said she. ‘Hearken!’
“它嗡嗡作响，”她说。 '倾听！'

He listened. The wind, playing upon the edifice, produced a booming tune, like the note of some gigantic one-stringed harp. No other sound came from it, and lifting his hand and advancing a step or two, Clare felt the vertical surface of the structure. It seemed to be of solid stone, without joint or moulding. Carrying his fingers onward he found that what he had come in contact with was a colossal rectangular pillar; by stretching out his left hand he could feel a similar one adjoining. At an indefinite height overhead something made the black sky blacker, which had the semblance of a vast architrave uniting the pillars horizontally. They carefully entered beneath and between; the surfaces echoed their soft rustle; but they seemed to be still out of doors. The place was roofless. Tess drew her breath fearfully, and Angel, perplexed, said—
他听着。风吹过建筑物，发出轰鸣的曲调，就像巨大的单弦竖琴的音符。里面没有发出任何其他声音，克莱尔抬起手，向前走了一两步，感觉到了结构的垂直表面。它似乎是由坚固的石头制成的，没有接缝或造型。他伸手往前走，发现自己接触到的，是一根巨大的长方形柱子。伸出左手，他能感觉到旁边有一只类似的手。在头顶上不定的高度，有什么东西让黑色的天空变得更黑，它看起来就像一个巨大的楣梁，将柱子水平地连接在一起。他们小心翼翼地进入下面和中间；表面回响着柔和的沙沙声。但他们似乎还在外面。这个地方没有屋顶。苔丝恐惧地吸了一口气，安吉尔困惑地说道——

‘What can it be?’
“那会是什么？”

Feeling sideways they encountered another tower-like pillar, square and uncompromising as the first; beyond it another and another. The place was all doors and pillars, some connected above by continuous architraves.
他们侧身摸索，遇到了另一根塔状的柱子，与第一根柱子一样，呈方形，毫不妥协。除此之外，还有一个又一个。这个地方全是门和柱子，有些上面通过连续的门楣连接起来。

‘A very Temple of the Winds,’ he said.
“一座非常风之神殿，”他说。

The next pillar was isolated; others composed a trilithon; others were prostrate, their flanks forming a causeway wide enough for a carriage; and it was soon obvious that they made up a forest of monoliths grouped upon the grassy expanse of the plain. The couple advanced further into this pavilion of the night till they stood in its midst.
下一根柱子被孤立了；其他人则组成了三重石；其他人则俯伏在地，他们的侧翼形成了一条足以容纳马车的堤道。很快人们就发现，它们在广阔的草地上形成了一片巨石森林。夫妻俩继续往夜色的亭子里走去，直到站在亭子中间。

‘It is Stonehenge!’ said Clare.
“这是巨石阵！”克莱尔说。

‘The heathen temple, you mean?’
“你是说异教寺庙？”

‘Yes. Older than the centuries; older than the d’Urbervilles! Well, what shall we do, darling? We may find shelter further on.’
'是的。比几个世纪还要古老；比德伯家还老！好吧，亲爱的，我们该怎么办？我们可能会在更远的地方找到庇护所。

But Tess, really tired by this time, flung herself upon an oblong slab that lay close at hand, and was sheltered from the wind by a pillar. Owing to the action of the sun during the preceding day, the stone was warm and dry, in comforting contrast to the rough and chill grass around, which had damped her skirts and shoes.
但苔丝此时实在累了，她扑倒在近旁的一块长方形石板上，并用一根柱子挡风。由于前一天太阳的作用，石头温暖而干燥，与周围粗糙而寒冷的草形成鲜明对比，这使她的裙子和鞋子都湿了。

‘I don’t want to go any further, Angel,’ she said, stretching out her hand for his. ‘Can’t we bide here?’
“我不想再继续了，安吉尔，”她说着，向他伸出了手。 “我们不能在这里等待吗？”

‘I fear not. This spot is visible for miles by day, although it does not seem so now.’
‘我担心不会。这个地方白天在几英里外都可见，尽管现在看起来不那么明显了。”

‘One of my mother’s people was a shepherd hereabouts, now I think of it. And you used to say at Talbothays that I was a heathen. So now I am at home.’
“现在我想起来了，我母亲的一个族人是附近的一个牧羊人。你过去常在塔尔博塞斯说我是异教徒。所以现在我在家。

He knelt down beside her outstretched form, and put his lips upon hers.
他在她伸展的身体旁边跪下，将嘴唇印在她的嘴唇上。

‘Sleepy are you, dear? I think you are lying on an altar.’
‘亲爱的，你睡了吗？我认为你正躺在祭坛上。”

‘I like very much to be here,’ she murmured. ‘It is so solemn and lonely—after my great happiness—with nothing but the sky above my face. It seems as if there were no folk in the world but we two; and I wish there were not—except ‘Liza-Lu.’
“我非常喜欢来这里，”她低声说道。 “在我巨大的幸福之后，这里是如此的庄严和孤独，除了我脸上的天空之外什么都没有。仿佛世界上除了我们两个人之外再无其他人；我希望没有——除了“丽莎-卢”。

Clare though she might as well rest here till it should get a little lighter, and he flung his overcoat upon her, and sat down by her side.
克莱尔想，她不妨在这里休息一下，等天色稍微亮一点，然后他把大衣扔给她，然后在她身边坐下。

‘Angel, if anything happens to me, will you watch over ‘Liza-Lu for my sake?’ she asked, when they had listened a long time to the wind among the pillars.
“天使，如果我出了什么事，你会为了我照顾‘莉莎露​​吗？’当他们听了很长时间的柱子间的风声时，她问道。

‘I will.’
'我会。'

‘She is so good and simple and pure. O, Angel—I wish you would marry her if you lose me, as you will do shortly. O, if you would!’
‘她是如此善良、简单、纯洁。哦，天使——如果你失去了我，我希望你能娶她，你很快就会这么做。哦，如果你愿意的话！

‘If I lose you I lose all! And she is my sister-in-law.’
‘如果我失去了你，我就失去了一切！她是我的嫂子。

‘That’s nothing, dearest. People marry sister-laws continually about Marlott; and ‘Liza-Lu is so gentle and sweet, and she is growing so beautiful. O, I could share you with her willingly when we are spirits! If you would train her and teach her, Angel, and bring her up for your own self! ... She had all the best of me without the bad of me; and if she were to become yours it would almost seem as if death had not divided us... Well, I have said it. I won’t mention it again.’
‘那没什么，亲爱的。人们不断地与马洛特的嫂子结婚。丽莎·露是如此温柔和甜美，而且她变得如此美丽。哦，当我们成为灵魂时，我可以心甘情愿地与她分享你！如果你愿意训练她、教导她，天使，并为你自己抚养她！ ……她拥有我所有的优点，却没有我的缺点；如果她成为你的，似乎死亡并没有将我们分开……好吧，我已经说过了。我不会再提了。

She ceased, and he fell into thought. In the far north-east sky he could see between the pillars a level streak of light. The uniform concavity of black cloud was lifting bodily like the lid of a pot, letting in at the earth’s edge the coming day, against which the towering monoliths and trilithons began to be blackly defined.
她停了下来，他陷入了沉思。在遥远的东北方天空中，他可以看到柱子之间有一道水平的光带。乌云的均匀凹度像锅盖一样整体升起，在即将到来的一天进入地球边缘，高耸的巨石和三石开始被黑色界定。

‘Did they sacrifice to God here?’ asked she.
“他们在这里向上帝献祭吗？”她问。

‘No,’ said he.
“不，”他说。

‘Who to?’
“给谁？”

‘I believe to the sun. That lofty stone set away by itself is in the direction of the sun, which will presently rise behind it.’
‘我相信太阳。那块单独放置的高大石头正朝着太阳的方向，太阳很快就会在它后面升起。

‘This reminds me, dear,’ she said. ‘You remember you never would interfere with any belief of mine before we were married? But I knew your mind all the same, and I thought as you thought—not from any reasons of my own, but because you thought so. Tell me now, Angel, do you think we shall meet again after we are dead? I want to know.’
“这让我想起了，亲爱的，”她说。 “你记得在我们结婚之前你从来不会干涉我的任何信仰吗？”但我还是知道你的想法，我的想法和你的想法一样——不是出于我自己的任何原因，而是因为你这么想。现在告诉我，天使，你认为我们死后还会再见面吗？我想知道。'

He kissed her to avoid a reply at such a time.
他吻了她，以避免在这个时候回答。

‘O, Angel—I fear that means no!’ said she, with a suppressed sob. ‘And I wanted so to see you again—so much, so much! What—not even you and I, Angel, who love each other so well?’
“哦，安吉尔——恐怕这意味着不！”她压抑着抽泣说道。 “我非常想再次见到你——非常、非常！什么——就连你和我，安吉尔，如此相爱的人也不行吗？

Like a greater than himself, to the critical question at the critical time he did not answer; and they were again silent. In a minute or two her breathing became more regular, her clasp of his hand relaxed, and she fell asleep. The band of silver paleness along the east horizon made even the distant parts of the Great Plain appear dark and near; and the whole enormous landscape bore that impress of reserve, taciturnity, and hesitation which is usual just before day. The eastward pillars and their architraves stood up blackly against the light, and the great flame-shaped Sun-stone beyond them; and the Stone of Sacrifice midway. Presently the night wind died out, and the quivering little pools in the cup-like hollows of the stones lay still. At the same time something seemed to move on the verge of the dip eastward—a mere dot. It was the head of a man approaching them from the hollow beyond the Sun-stone. Clare wished they had gone onward, but in the circumstances decided to remain quiet. The figure came straight towards the circle of pillars in which they were.
就像一个比自己更伟大的人，在关键时刻对关键问题他没有回答；他们又沉默了。一两分钟后，她的呼吸变得更加规律，握着他的手也放松了，她睡着了。沿着东方地平线的银色带子使大平原的遥远部分也显得又黑又近。整个广阔的风景给人一种保留、沉默和犹豫的印象，这是天亮前常见的。东边的柱子和门楣在光线的照射下黑色地矗立着，柱子后面还有巨大的火焰形状的太阳石。以及中途的牺牲之石。不久，夜风停息了，杯子般的石头空洞中颤动的小水潭静止了。与此同时，似乎有什么东西在向东倾斜的边缘移动——只是一个点。那是一个男人的头颅，从太阳石后面的空洞中向他们走来。克莱尔希望他们继续前进，但在这种情况下决定保持沉默。那道身影径直朝着他们所在的那一圈柱子而来。

He heard something behind him, the brush of feet. Turning, he saw over the prostrate columns another figure; then before he was aware, another was at hand on the right, under a trilithon, and another on the left. The dawn shone full on the front of the man westward, and Clare could discern from this that he was tall, and walked as if trained. They all closed in with evident purpose. Her story then was true! Springing to his feet, he looked around for a weapon, loose stone, means of escape, anything. By this time the nearest man was upon him.
他听到身后有什么声音，脚步声。转过身来，他看到倒在地上的柱子上方还有另一个人影。然后，在他意识到之前，另一个就在右边，在一个三石下方，另一个在左边。晨光充分地照在西边男人的脸上，克莱尔看出他身材高大，走起路来就像受过训练一样。他们都带着明显的目的逼近。她当时的故事是真的！他跳了起来，环顾四周寻找武器、松动的石头、逃生的途径，或者任何东西。这时，最近的一个人已经到了他的身边。

‘It is no use, sir,’ he said. ‘There are sixteen of us on the Plain, and the whole country is reared.’
“这没有用，先生，”他说。 “平原上有我们十六个人，整个国家都被养大了。”

‘Let her finish her sleep!’ he implored in a whisper of the men as they gathered round.
“让她睡完吧！”当男人们围过来时，他低声恳求道。

When they saw where she lay, which they had not done till then, they showed no objection, and stood watching her, as still as the pillars around. He went to the stone and bent over her, holding one poor little hand; her breathing now was quick and small, like that of a lesser creature than a woman. All waited in the growing light, their faces and hands as if they were silvered, the remainder of their figures dark, the stones glistening green-gray, the Plain still a mass of shade. Soon the light was strong, and a ray shone upon her unconscious form, peering under her eyelids and waking her.
当他们看到她躺在哪里时，他们没有表现出任何反对，只是站在那里看着她，就像周围的柱子一样一动不动。他走到石头跟前，向她弯下腰，握住一只可怜的小手。她的呼吸现在急促而微弱，就像一个比女人低等的生物。所有人都在渐亮的光线中等待着，他们的脸和手仿佛镀了银，其余的人影都是黑色的，石头闪闪发光，绿灰色的，平原仍然是一片阴影。很快光线就变强了，一道光线照射在她昏迷不醒的身体上，从她的眼睑下窥视，唤醒了她。

‘What is it, Angel?’ she said, starting up. ‘Have they come for me?’
“什么事，安吉尔？”她惊恐地问道。 “他们来找我了吗？”

‘Yes, dearest,’ he said. ‘They have come.’
“是的，亲爱的，”他说。 '他们已经来了。'

‘It is as it should be,’ she murmured. ‘Angel, I am almost glad—yes, glad! This happiness could not have lasted. It was too much. I have had enough; and now I shall not live for you to despise me!’
“这是应该的，”她低声说道。 ‘天使，我几乎很高兴——是的，很高兴！这种幸福不可能持续下去。实在是太多了。我已经受够了;现在我不会再让你瞧不起我了！

She stood up, shook herself, and went forward, neither of the men having moved.
她站起来，摇摇头，向前走去，两个男人都没有动。

‘I am ready,’ she said quietly.
“我准备好了，”她平静地说。

LIX
利克斯

The city of Wintoncester, that fine old city, aforetime capital of Wessex, lay amidst its convex and concave downlands in all the brightness and warmth of a July morning. The gabled brick, tile, and freestone houses had almost dried off for the season their integument of lichen, the streams in the meadows were low, and in the sloping High Street, from the West Gateway to the mediæval cross, and from the mediæval cross to the bridge, that leisurely dusting and sweeping was in progress which usually ushers in an old-fashioned market-day.
温顿塞斯特市是一座美丽的老城，曾经是威塞克斯的首府，坐落在凹凸不平的丘陵之中，沐浴在七月早晨的明亮和温暖之中。山墙砖、瓦和石砌房屋的地衣几乎已经在这个季节干涸了，草地上的溪流很低，在倾斜的大街上，从西门到中世纪的十字架，再从中世纪的十字架到了桥上，人们正在悠闲地打扫灰尘和扫地，这通常会迎来一个老式的集市日。

From the western gate aforesaid the highway, as every Wintoncestrian knows, ascends a long and regular incline of the exact length of a measured mile, leaving the houses gradually behind. Up this road from the precincts of the city two persons were walking rapidly, as if unconscious of the trying ascent—unconscious through preoccupation and not through buoyancy. They had emerged upon this road through a narrow, barred wicket in a high wall a little lower down. They seemed anxious to get out of the sight of the houses and of their kind, and this road appeared to offer the quickest means of doing so. Though they were young, they walked with bowed heads, which gait of grief the sun’s rays smiled on pitilessly.
正如每个温顿塞斯特里亚人都知道的那样，从西门开始，高速公路沿着一条长而规则的斜坡上升，长度精确为一英里，逐渐将房屋抛在后面。两个人从市区沿着这条路快速行走，仿佛没有意识到攀登的艰辛——因为全神贯注而不是因为浮力而没有意识到。他们是从稍低一点的高墙上的一个狭窄的、有栅栏的小门出现在这条路上的。他们似乎急于离开房屋和同类的视线，而这条路似乎提供了最快的方法。他们虽然年轻，却低着头走路，悲伤的步态在阳光下无情地微笑着。

One of the pair was Angel Clare, the other a tall budding creature—half girl, half woman—a spiritualized image of Tess, slighter than she, but with the same beautiful eyes—Clare’s sister-in-law, ‘Liza-Lu. Their pale faces seemed to have shrunk to half their natural size. They moved on hand in hand, and never spoke a word, the drooping of their heads being that of Giotto’s ‘Two Apostles”.
其中一个是安吉尔·克莱尔，另一个是个高大的萌芽生物——一半是女孩，一半是女人——是苔丝的精神化形象，比她更苗条，但有着同样美丽的眼睛——克莱尔的嫂子，“丽莎-露”。他们苍白的脸似乎缩小了一半。他们手拉着手，一言不发，低垂着头，就像乔托的《双使徒》一样。

When they had nearly reached the top of the great West Hill the clocks in the town struck eight. Each gave a start at the notes, and, walking onward yet a few steps, they reached the first milestone, standing whitely on the green margin of the grass, and backed by the down, which here was open to the road. They entered upon the turf, and, impelled by a force that seemed to overrule their will, suddenly stood still, turned, and waited in paralyzed suspense beside the stone.
当他们快要到达伟大的西山顶时，镇上的时钟敲响了八点。每个人都被这些音符吓了一跳，继续向前走了几步，他们到达了第一个里程碑，白色地站在草地的绿色边缘上，背靠着地面，这里是向道路开放的。他们走上草地，在一股似乎压倒他们意志的力量的推动下，突然一动不动地站着，转过身来，在石头旁边麻木地等待着。

The prospect from this summit was almost unlimited. In the valley beneath lay the city they had just left, its more prominent buildings showing as in an isometric drawing—among them the broad cathedral tower, with its Norman windows and immense length of aisle and nave, the spires of St Thomas’s, the pinnacled tower of the College, and, more to the right, the tower and gables of the ancient hospice, where to this day the pilgrim may receive his dole of bread and ale. Behind the city swept the rotund upland of St Catherine’s Hill; further off, landscape beyond landscape, till the horizon was lost in the radiance of the sun hanging above it.
这次峰会的前景几乎是无限的。在下面的山谷里，是他们刚刚离开的城市，更突出的建筑就像等轴测图一样，其中包括宽阔的大教堂塔楼，有诺曼风格的窗户和巨大的过道和中殿，圣托马斯教堂的尖塔，尖顶的教堂。学院的塔楼，以及更右边的古老临终关怀院的塔楼和山墙，至今朝圣者仍可以在那里领取面包和麦芽酒。城市后面是圣凯瑟琳山的圆形高地。更远的地方，风景超越风景，直到地平线消失在悬挂在其上方的太阳的光芒中。

Against these far stretches of country rose, in front of the other city edifices, a large red-brick building, with level gray roofs, and rows of short barred windows bespeaking captivity, the whole contrasting greatly by its formalism with the quaint irregularities of the Gothic erections. It was somewhat disguised from the road in passing it by yews and evergreen oaks, but it was visible enough up here. The wicket from which the pair had lately emerged was in the wall of this structure. From the middle of the building an ugly flat-topped octagonal tower ascended against the east horizon, and viewed from this spot, on its shady side and against the light, it seemed the one blot on the city’s beauty. Yet it was with this blot, and not with the beauty, that the two gazers were concerned.
与这片遥远的乡村玫瑰相对，在其他城市建筑的前面，有一座巨大的红砖建筑，有着平坦的灰色屋顶，一排排矮小的铁窗表明了囚禁，整个建筑的形式主义与古怪的不规则性形成了鲜明的对比。哥特式的勃起。从路上经过时，它被紫杉和常绿橡树所掩盖，但在这里还是很明显的。两人最近出现的小门就在这座建筑的墙上。从建筑物的中间，一座丑陋的平顶八角形塔楼在东方的地平线上拔地而起，从这个地方看去，在它的阴暗面和逆光下，它似乎是这座城市美丽的一个污点。然而，两位凝视者关心的是这个污点，而不是美丽。

Upon the cornice of the tower a tall staff was fixed. Their eyes were riveted on it. A few minutes after the hour had struck something moved slowly up the staff, and extended itself upon the breeze. It was a black flag.
塔的檐口上固定着一根高高的权杖。他们的眼睛都盯着它。整点钟敲响后几分钟，有什么东西慢慢地沿着棍子移动，并在微风中伸展开来。那是一面黑旗。

‘Justice’ was done, and the President of the Immortals, in Aeschylean phrase, had ended his sport with Tess. And the d’Urberville knights and dames slept on in their tombs unknowing. The two speechless gazers bent themselves down to the earth, as if in prayer, and remained thus a long time, absolutely motionless: the flag continued to wave silently. As soon as they had strength, they arose, joined hands again, and went on.
“正义”得到了伸张，用埃斯库罗斯的话来说，万神殿主席结束了他与苔丝的游戏。德伯维尔的骑士和贵妇们不知不觉地睡在他们的坟墓里。两个目瞪口呆的人跪倒在地，仿佛在祈祷，就这样呆了很长时间，一动不动：旗帜继续无声地飘扬。他们一有力气，就站起来，再次手拉着手，继续前行。