Dracula
德古拉
Dracula
德古拉
Chapter 1
第1章
Chapter 2
第2章
Chapter 3
第3章
Chapter 4
第4章
Chapter 5
第5章
Chapter 6
第6章
Chapter 7
第7章
Chapter 8
第8章
Chapter 9
第9章
Chapter 10
第10章
Chapter 11
第11章
Chapter 12
第12章
Chapter 13
第13章
Chapter 14
第14章
Chapter 15
第15章
Chapter 16
第16章
Chapter 17
第17章
Chapter 18
第18章
Chapter 19
第19章
Chapter 20
第20章
Chapter 21
第21章
Chapter 22
第22章
Chapter 23
第23章
Chapter 24
第24章
Chapter 25
第25章
Chapter 26
第26章
Chapter 27
第27章

Dracula
德古拉

By Bram Stoker
布拉姆·斯托克

Chapter 1
第1章

Jonathan Harker’s Journal
乔纳森·哈克的日记

3 May. Bistritz.—Left Munich at 8:35 P.M., on 1st May, arriving at Vienna early next morning; should have arrived at 6:46, but train was an hour late. Buda-Pesth seems a wonderful place, from the glimpse which I got of it from the train and the little I could walk through the streets. I feared to go very far from the station, as we had arrived late and would start as near the correct time as possible.
5 月 3 日。比斯特里茨——5月1日晚上8点35分离开慕尼黑，次日清晨抵达维也纳；本应6点46分到达，但火车晚点了一个小时。从我在火车上看到的布达佩斯和我在街上步行的时间来看，布达佩斯似乎是一个美妙的地方。我害怕离车站太远，因为我们到得很晚，而且会尽可能在正确的时间出发。

The impression I had was that we were leaving the West and entering the East; the most western of splendid bridges over the Danube, which is here of noble width and depth, took us among the traditions of Turkish rule.
我的印象是，我们正在离开西方，进入东方。多瑙河上最西端的一座宏伟的桥梁在这里宽阔而深邃，将我们带入了土耳其统治的传统之中。

We left in pretty good time, and came after nightfall to Klausenburgh. Here I stopped for the night at the Hotel Royale. I had for dinner, or rather supper, a chicken done up some way with red pepper, which was very good but thirsty. (Mem. get recipe for Mina.) I asked the waiter, and he said it was called ‘paprika hendl,’ and that, as it was a national dish, I should be able to get it anywhere along the Carpathians.
我们出发的时间非常好，夜幕降临后来到了克劳森堡。我在皇家酒店 (Hotel Royale) 过夜。我晚餐吃的是一只用红辣椒做的鸡肉，味道很好，但是很渴。 （记下，找到米娜的菜谱。）我问服务员，他说这道菜叫“paprika hendl”，而且，因为它是一道国菜，我应该能够在喀尔巴阡山脉的任何地方买到它。

I found my smattering of German very useful here, indeed, I don’t know how I should be able to get on without it.
我发现我的一点点德语在这里非常有用，事实上，我不知道没有它我该如何生活。

Having had some time at my disposal when in London, I had visited the British Museum, and made search among the books and maps in the library regarding Transylvania; it had struck me that some foreknowledge of the country could hardly fail to have some importance in dealing with a nobleman of that country.
在伦敦闲暇时，我参观了大英博物馆，并在图书馆里查找了有关特兰西瓦尼亚的书籍和地图；我突然意识到，对这个国家的一些先见之明在与该国的贵族打交道时不可能不具有一定的重要性。

I find that the district he named is in the extreme east of the country, just on the borders of three states, Transylvania, Moldavia, and Bukovina, in the midst of the Carpathian mountains; one of the wildest and least known portions of Europe.
我发现他所命名的地区位于该国的最东端，就在特兰西瓦尼亚、摩尔达维亚和布科维纳三个州的边界处，在喀尔巴阡山脉的中间；欧洲最狂野和最不为人知的地区之一。

I was not able to light on any map or work giving the exact locality of the Castle Dracula, as there are no maps of this country as yet to compare with our own Ordance Survey Maps; but I found that Bistritz, the post town named by Count Dracula, is a fairly well-known place. I shall enter here some of my notes, as they may refresh my memory when I talk over my travels with Mina.
我无法找到任何地图或作品来给出德古拉城堡的确切位置，因为还没有这个国家的地图可以与我们自己的地形测量地图进行比较；但我发现比斯特里茨这个以德古拉伯爵命名的驿站小镇是一个相当有名的地方。我将在这里写下我的一些笔记，因为当我谈论与米娜的旅行时，它们可能会刷新我的记忆。

In the population of Transylvania there are four distinct nationalities: Saxons in the South, and mixed with them the Wallachs, who are the descendants of the Dacians; Magyars in the West, and Szekelys in the East and North. I am going among the latter, who claim to be descended from Attila and the Huns. This may be so, for when the Magyars conquered the country in the eleventh century they found the Huns settled in it.
特兰西瓦尼亚的人口中有四个不同的民族：南部的撒克逊人，以及与他们混合的瓦拉赫人，他们是达契亚人的后裔；西部是马扎尔人，东部和北部是塞克利人。我要去的是后者，他们自称是阿提拉和匈奴人的后裔。也许是这样，因为当马扎尔人在十一世纪征服这个国家时，他们发现匈奴人定居在那里。

I read that every known superstition in the world is gathered into the horseshoe of the Carpathians, as if it were the centre of some sort of imaginative whirlpool; if so my stay may be very interesting. (Mem., I must ask the Count all about them.)
我读到，世界上所有已知的迷信都聚集在喀尔巴阡山脉的马蹄铁中，仿佛它是某种想象力漩涡的中心；如果是这样的话，我的逗留可能会非常有趣。 （嗯，我必须向伯爵询问所有关于他们的事情。）

I did not sleep well, though my bed was comfortable enough, for I had all sorts of queer dreams. There was a dog howling all night under my window, which may have had something to do with it; or it may have been the paprika, for I had to drink up all the water in my carafe, and was still thirsty. Towards morning I slept and was wakened by the continuous knocking at my door, so I guess I must have been sleeping soundly then.
虽然我的床很舒服，但我睡得不好，因为我做了各种各样奇怪的梦。我的窗下整夜都有狗嚎叫，可能与此有关；或者可能是辣椒粉的原因，因为我不得不喝光水瓶里的所有水，而且仍然口渴。早上我睡着了，被连续不断的敲门声吵醒，所以我想我当时一定睡得很熟。

I had for breakfast more paprika, and a sort of porridge of maize flour which they said was ‘mamaliga’, and egg-plant stuffed with forcemeat, a very excellent dish, which they call ‘impletata”. (Mem., get recipe for this also.)
我早餐吃了更多的辣椒粉，还有一种玉米粉粥，他们说这是“mamaliga”，还有塞满肉的茄子，这是一道非常美味的菜肴，他们称之为“impletata”。 （记住，也获取这个的食谱。）

I had to hurry breakfast, for the train started a little before eight, or rather it ought to have done so, for after rushing to the station at 7:30 I had to sit in the carriage for more than an hour before we began to move.
我得赶紧吃早饭，因为火车八点前一点就出发了，或者说应该如此，因为七点三十分赶到车站后，我在车厢里坐了一个多小时才开始上车。移动。

It seems to me that the further east you go the more unpunctual are the trains. What ought they to be in China?
在我看来，越往东走，火车就越不准时。他们在中国应该是什么样子？

All day long we seemed to dawdle through a country which was full of beauty of every kind. Sometimes we saw little towns or castles on the top of steep hills such as we see in old missals; sometimes we ran by rivers and streams which seemed from the wide stony margin on each side of them to be subject to great floods. It takes a lot of water, and running strong, to sweep the outside edge of a river clear.
我们一整天似乎都在一个充满各种美丽的国家里闲逛。有时我们会看到陡峭山顶上的小镇或城堡，就像我们在古老的弥撒书中看到的那样。有时，我们沿着河流和溪流奔跑，从两侧宽阔的石质边缘看，这些河流和溪流似乎遭受了大洪水的侵袭。需要大量的水，并且水流强劲，才能将河流的外缘清扫干净。

At every station there were groups of people, sometimes crowds, and in all sorts of attire. Some of them were just like the peasants at home or those I saw coming through France and Germany, with short jackets, and round hats, and home-made trousers; but others were very picturesque.
每个车站都有一群群人，有时是人群，穿着各种各样的衣服。他们中的一些人就像家里的农民或我看到的从法国和德国来的农民一样，穿着短夹克，戴着圆帽，穿着自制的裤子；但其他的风景如画。

The women looked pretty, except when you got near them, but they were very clumsy about the waist. They had all full white sleeves of some kind or other, and most of them had big belts with a lot of strips of something fluttering from them like the dresses in a ballet, but of course there were petticoats under them.
这些女人看起来很漂亮，除非你靠近她们，但她们的腰部却很笨拙。她们全都是白色的袖子，大多数都系着大腰带，腰带上飘扬着很多条带子，就像芭蕾舞中的裙子一样，但当然，腰带下面还有衬裙。

The strangest figures we saw were the Slovaks, who were more barbarian than the rest, with their big cow-boy hats, great baggy dirty-white trousers, white linen shirts, and enormous heavy leather belts, nearly a foot wide, all studded over with brass nails. They wore high boots, with their trousers tucked into them, and had long black hair and heavy black moustaches. They are very picturesque, but do not look prepossessing. On the stage they would be set down at once as some old Oriental band of brigands. They are, however, I am told, very harmless and rather wanting in natural self-assertion.
我们看到的最奇怪的人物是斯洛伐克人，他们比其他人更加野蛮，戴着大牛仔帽，穿着又大又脏的白色裤子，穿着白色亚麻衬衫，系着一条近一英尺宽的巨大沉重的皮带，皮带上都镶满了钉子。用铜钉。他们穿着高筒靴，把裤子塞进靴子里，留着长长的黑发和浓密的黑胡子。它们风景如画，但看起来并不引人注目。在舞台上，他们立刻就会被视为东方古老的强盗团伙。然而，据我所知，他们非常无害，而且缺乏自然的自我主张。

It was on the dark side of twilight when we got to Bistritz, which is a very interesting old place. Being practically on the frontier—for the Borgo Pass leads from it into Bukovina—it has had a very stormy existence, and it certainly shows marks of it. Fifty years ago a series of great fires took place, which made terrible havoc on five separate occasions. At the very beginning of the seventeenth century it underwent a siege of three weeks and lost 13,000 people, the casualties of war proper being assisted by famine and disease.
我们到达比斯特里茨时已是黄昏，这是一个非常有趣的老地方。实际上，它位于边境——因为博尔戈山口从这里通向布科维纳——它经历过一段非常风雨飘摇的时期，而且它确实显示出了它的痕迹。五十年前发生了一系列大火，五次造成严重破坏。十七世纪初，它经历了三个星期的围困，失去了 13,000 人，战争造成的伤亡还加上饥荒和疾病。

Count Dracula had directed me to go to the Golden Krone Hotel, which I found, to my great delight, to be thoroughly old-fashioned, for of course I wanted to see all I could of the ways of the country.
德古拉伯爵指示我去金皇冠酒店，令我非常高兴的是，我发现那里完全是老式的，因为我当然想尽我所能地了解这个国家的风土人情。

I was evidently expected, for when I got near the door I faced a cheery-looking elderly woman in the usual peasant dress—white undergarment with a long double apron, front, and back, of coloured stuff fitting almost too tight for modesty. When I came close she bowed and said, ‘The Herr Englishman?’
显然我是在预料之中的，因为当我靠近门口时，我看到一位看上去很高兴的老妇人，她穿着通常的农家服装——白色内衣，前面和后面都有一条长长的双层围裙，彩色的东西几乎太紧了，不太端庄。当我走近时，她鞠躬问道：“英国人先生？”

‘Yes,’ I said, ‘Jonathan Harker.’
“是的，”我说，“乔纳森·哈克。”

She smiled, and gave some message to an elderly man in white shirtsleeves, who had followed her to the door.
她微笑着，向跟随她到门口的一位身穿白衬衫的老人说了几句话。

He went, but immediately returned with a letter:
他去了，但立即带着一封信回来了：

‘My friend.—Welcome to the Carpathians. I am anxiously expecting you. Sleep well tonight. At three tomorrow the diligence will start for Bukovina; a place on it is kept for you. At the Borgo Pass my carriage will await you and will bring you to me. I trust that your journey from London has been a happy one, and that you will enjoy your stay in my beautiful land.—Your friend, Dracula.’
“我的朋友。——欢迎来到喀尔巴阡山脉。我焦急地等待着你。今晚睡个好觉。明天三点，布科维纳的勤奋工作将开始；上面为您保留了一个位置。我的马车将在博尔戈山口等候您，并带您来见我。我相信你从伦敦出发的旅程是愉快的，你会在我美丽的土地上过得愉快。——你的朋友，德古拉。

4 May—I found that my landlord had got a letter from the Count, directing him to secure the best place on the coach for me; but on making inquiries as to details he seemed somewhat reticent, and pretended that he could not understand my German.
5月4日——我发现我的房东收到了伯爵的一封信，指示他为我在马车上找到最好的位置；但在询问细节时，他显得有些沉默寡言，假装听不懂我的德语。

This could not be true, because up to then he had understood it perfectly; at least, he answered my questions exactly as if he did.
这不可能是真的，因为到目前为止他已经完全理解了。至少，他完全像他那样回答了我的问题。

He and his wife, the old lady who had received me, looked at each other in a frightened sort of way. He mumbled out that the money had been sent in a letter, and that was all he knew. When I asked him if he knew Count Dracula, and could tell me anything of his castle, both he and his wife crossed themselves, and, saying that they knew nothing at all, simply refused to speak further. It was so near the time of starting that I had no time to ask anyone else, for it was all very mysterious and not by any means comforting.
他和他的妻子，也就是接待我的老太太，面面相觑，表情有些惊恐。他含糊地说，钱是通过信函寄来的，他只知道这些。当我问他是否认识德古拉伯爵，是否可以告诉我有关他的城堡的任何事情时，他和他的妻子都在胸前画了十字，说他们什么都不知道，只是拒绝进一步说话。距离开始的时间如此之近，我没有时间去问其他人，因为这一切都很神秘，而且一点也不令人安慰。

Just before I was leaving, the old lady came up to my room and said in a hysterical way: ‘Must you go? Oh! Young Herr, must you go?’ She was in such an excited state that she seemed to have lost her grip of what German she knew, and mixed it all up with some other language which I did not know at all. I was just able to follow her by asking many questions. When I told her that I must go at once, and that I was engaged on important business, she asked again:
就在我要离开的时候，老太太来到我的房间，歇斯底里地说：‘你一定要走吗？哦！小先生，你一定要走吗？”她太兴奋了，似乎已经忘记了自己所懂的德语，而把它和我根本不懂的其他语言混在一起了。我只能通过问很多问题来跟随她。当我告诉她我必须马上走，而且我有重要的事情要做时，她又问：

‘Do you know what day it is?’ I answered that it was the fourth of May. She shook her head as she said again:
“你知道今天是什么日子吗？”我回答说，今天是五月四日。她摇摇头，又说道：

‘Oh, yes! I know that! I know that, but do you know what day it is?’
'哦是的！我知道！我知道，但是你知道今天是什么日子吗？

On my saying that I did not understand, she went on:
当我说我不明白时，她继续说道：

‘It is the eve of St. George’s Day. Do you not know that tonight, when the clock strikes midnight, all the evil things in the world will have full sway? Do you know where you are going, and what you are going to?’ She was in such evident distress that I tried to comfort her, but without effect. Finally, she went down on her knees and implored me not to go; at least to wait a day or two before starting.
“今天是圣乔治节前夕。难道你不知道，今晚午夜钟声敲响的时候，世间一切邪恶的事物都会肆虐吗？你知道你要去哪里，要去做什么吗？”她显然很痛苦，我试图安慰她，但没有效果。最后，她跪下来恳求我不要去。至少要等一两天才能开始。

It was all very ridiculous but I did not feel comfortable. However, there was business to be done, and I could allow nothing to interfere with it.
这一切都很可笑，但我感觉不舒服。然而，还有事情要做，我不能允许任何事情干扰它。

I tried to raise her up, and said, as gravely as I could, that I thanked her, but my duty was imperative, and that I must go.
我试图扶起她，并尽可能严肃地说，我感谢她，但我的职责是必要的，我必须走了。

She then rose and dried her eyes, and taking a crucifix from her neck offered it to me.
然后她站起来擦干眼睛，从脖子上取下一个十字架递给我。

I did not know what to do, for, as an English Churchman, I have been taught to regard such things as in some measure idolatrous, and yet it seemed so ungracious to refuse an old lady meaning so well and in such a state of mind.
我不知道该怎么办，因为，作为一名英国牧师，我所受的教育认为这些事情在某种程度上是偶像崇拜，但拒绝一位心意如此良好、心态如此好的老太太似乎太不礼貌了。 。

She saw, I suppose, the doubt in my face, for she put the rosary round my neck and said, ‘For your mother’s sake,’ and went out of the room.
我想她看到了我脸上的疑惑，因为她把念珠戴在我脖子上，说道：“看在你母亲的份上。”然后就走出了房间。

I am writing up this part of the diary whilst I am waiting for the coach, which is, of course, late; and the crucifix is still round my neck.
我一边等教练一边写这部分日记，当然已经晚了；十字架仍然挂在我的脖子上。

Whether it is the old lady’s fear, or the many ghostly traditions of this place, or the crucifix itself, I do not know, but I am not feeling nearly as easy in my mind as usual.
我不知道是因为老太太的恐惧，还是这个地方的许多鬼怪传统，又或者是十字架本身，但我的心情并不像平时那么轻松。

If this book should ever reach Mina before I do, let it bring my goodbye. Here comes the coach!
如果这本书比我先到达米娜，那就让它带我告别吧。教练来了！

5 May. The Castle.—The gray of the morning has passed, and the sun is high over the distant horizon, which seems jagged, whether with trees or hills I know not, for it is so far off that big things and little are mixed.
5 月 5 日。城堡。——早晨的灰蒙蒙的过去了，太阳高高地挂在远处的地平线上，地平线上似乎参差不齐，我不知道是有树木还是小山，因为距离太远了，大事小事混杂在一起。

I am not sleepy, and, as I am not to be called till I awake, naturally I write till sleep comes.
我不困，而且，由于直到我醒来才被叫我，所以我自然会写到睡觉为止。

There are many odd things to put down, and, lest who reads them may fancy that I dined too well before I left Bistritz, let me put down my dinner exactly.
有很多奇怪的事情需要记下来，而且，为了免得读到它们的人会认为我在离开比斯特里茨之前吃得太好了，让我准确地记下我的晚餐。

I dined on what they called ‘robber steak’—bits of bacon, onion, and beef, seasoned with red pepper, and strung on sticks, and roasted over the fire, in simple style of the London cat’s meat!
我吃了他们所谓的“强盗牛排”——几片培根、洋葱和牛肉，用红辣椒调味，串在木棍上，在火上烤，就像伦敦猫肉的简单风格！

The wine was Golden Mediasch, which produces a queer sting on the tongue, which is, however, not disagreeable.
这种酒是金梅迪亚什（Golden Mediasch），它会在舌头上产生一种奇怪的刺痛感，但并不令人讨厌。

I had only a couple of glasses of this, and nothing else.
我只喝了几杯这个，没有其他的。

When I got on the coach, the driver had not taken his seat, and I saw him talking to the landlady.
当我上车时，司机还没有入座，我看见他正在和老板娘说话。

They were evidently talking of me, for every now and then they looked at me, and some of the people who were sitting on the bench outside the door—came and listened, and then looked at me, most of them pityingly. I could hear a lot of words often repeated, queer words, for there were many nationalities in the crowd, so I quietly got my polyglot dictionary from my bag and looked them out.
他们显然是在谈论我，因为他们时不时地看着我，还有一些坐在门外长凳上的人——走过来听着，然后看着我，大多数人都带着怜悯。我能听到很多经常重复的单词，奇怪的单词，因为人群中有很多国籍，所以我悄悄地从包里拿出我的多语词典查起来。

I must say they were not cheering to me, for amongst them were ‘Ordog’—Satan, ‘Pokol’—hell, ‘stregoica’—witch, ‘vrolok’ and ‘vlkoslak’—both mean the same thing, one being Slovak and the other Servian for something that is either werewolf or vampire. (Mem., I must ask the Count about these superstitions.)
我必须说他们并没有为我欢呼，因为其中有“Ordog”——撒旦、“Pokol”——地狱、“stregoica”——女巫、“vrolok”和“vlkoslak”——两者的意思是一样的，一个是斯洛伐克语，一个是斯洛伐克语。另一个塞尔维亚语指的是狼人或吸血鬼。 （想起来，我必须向伯爵询问这些迷信的事。）

When we started, the crowd round the inn door, which had by this time swelled to a considerable size, all made the sign of the cross and pointed two fingers towards me.
当我们出发时，客栈门口的人群此时已经聚集到了相当大的规模，所有人都比划十字，并用两个手指指着我。

With some difficulty, I got a fellow passenger to tell me what they meant. He would not answer at first, but on learning that I was English, he explained that it was a charm or guard against the evil eye.
好不容易才让一位同行乘客告诉我他们的意思。起初他没有回答，但在得知我是英国人后，他解释说这是一种咒语或防范邪恶之眼的手段。

This was not very pleasant for me, just starting for an unknown place to meet an unknown man. But everyone seemed so kind-hearted, and so sorrowful, and so sympathetic that I could not but be touched.
这对我来说不太愉快，刚开始去一个陌生的地方，遇见一个陌生的男人。但每个人都显得那么善良、那么悲伤、那么同情，让我不禁感动。

I shall never forget the last glimpse which I had of the inn yard and its crowd of picturesque figures, all crossing themselves, as they stood round the wide archway, with its background of rich foliage of oleander and orange trees in green tubs clustered in the centre of the yard.
我永远不会忘记我最后一眼看到的旅馆院子和一群风景如画的人物，他们站在宽阔的拱门周围，他们都在画十字，背景是绿色盆栽中簇拥的夹竹桃和橙树的茂盛叶子。院子的中心。

Then our driver, whose wide linen drawers covered the whole front of the boxseat,—‘gotza’ they call them—cracked his big whip over his four small horses, which ran abreast, and we set off on our journey.
然后我们的司机，他的宽大的亚麻抽屉覆盖了整个包厢座位的前部——他们称之为“gotza”——用他的大鞭子抽打着他并排奔跑的四匹小马，我们就出发了。

I soon lost sight and recollection of ghostly fears in the beauty of the scene as we drove along, although had I known the language, or rather languages, which my fellow-passengers were speaking, I might not have been able to throw them off so easily. Before us lay a green sloping land full of forests and woods, with here and there steep hills, crowned with clumps of trees or with farmhouses, the blank gable end to the road. There was everywhere a bewildering mass of fruit blossom—apple, plum, pear, cherry. And as we drove by I could see the green grass under the trees spangled with the fallen petals. In and out amongst these green hills of what they call here the ‘Mittel Land’ ran the road, losing itself as it swept round the grassy curve, or was shut out by the straggling ends of pine woods, which here and there ran down the hillsides like tongues of flame. The road was rugged, but still we seemed to fly over it with a feverish haste. I could not understand then what the haste meant, but the driver was evidently bent on losing no time in reaching Borgo Prund. I was told that this road is in summertime excellent, but that it had not yet been put in order after the winter snows. In this respect it is different from the general run of roads in the Carpathians, for it is an old tradition that they are not to be kept in too good order. Of old the Hospadars would not repair them, lest the Turk should think that they were preparing to bring in foreign troops, and so hasten the war which was always really at loading point.
当我们开车行驶时，我很快就失去了视线和对美丽场景中幽灵般的恐惧的记忆，尽管如果我懂得这种语言，或者更确切地说，我的同伴所说的语言，我可能无法摆脱他们，所以容易地。我们面前是一片绿色的坡地，长满了森林和树林，到处都是陡峭的山丘，山顶长满了树木或农舍，路的尽头是空白的山墙。到处都是令人眼花缭乱的果花——苹果、李子、梨、樱桃。当我们开车经过时，我可以看到树下的绿草上闪烁着落下的花瓣。这条路在他们所谓的“米特尔土地”的绿色山丘中进进出出，在蜿蜒的草地上迷失了方向，或者被松树林的零散末端挡住了，松树林时不时地沿着山坡延伸。山坡像火焰的舌头。道路崎岖不平，但我们似乎仍以狂热的匆忙飞过它。我当时无法理解如此匆忙意味着什么，但司机显然一心想抓紧时间到达博尔戈·普伦德。有人告诉我，这条路在夏天的时候非常好，但冬天下雪后还没有修好。在这方面，它与喀尔巴阡山脉的一般道路有所不同，因为按照古老的传统，道路不能保持太良好的秩序。过去，霍斯帕达尔人不会修理它们，以免土耳其人认为他们正准备引进外国军队，从而加速战争，而战争总是处于真正的装载点。

Beyond the green swelling hills of the Mittel Land rose mighty slopes of forest up to the lofty steeps of the Carpathians themselves. Right and left of us they towered, with the afternoon sun falling full upon them and bringing out all the glorious colours of this beautiful range, deep blue and purple in the shadows of the peaks, green and brown where grass and rock mingled, and an endless perspective of jagged rock and pointed crags, till these were themselves lost in the distance, where the snowy peaks rose grandly. Here and there seemed mighty rifts in the mountains, through which, as the sun began to sink, we saw now and again the white gleam of falling water. One of my companions touched my arm as we swept round the base of a hill and opened up the lofty, snow-covered peak of a mountain, which seemed, as we wound on our serpentine way, to be right before us.
在米特尔地（Mittel Land）绿色隆起的山丘之外，耸立着巨大的森林斜坡，一直延伸到喀尔巴阡山脉的高耸陡坡。它们在我们的左右两侧耸立，午后的阳光照在它们身上，衬托出这片美丽山脉的所有绚丽色彩，山峰阴影下的深蓝色和紫色，青草和岩石交融处的绿色和棕色，以及锯齿状岩石和尖锐峭壁的无尽视野，直到它们本身消失在远处，那里白雪皑皑的山峰雄伟地耸立着。山上到处可见巨大的裂痕，当太阳开始下山时，透过这些裂痕，我们时不时地看到落水的白色光芒。当我们绕过山脚，打开一座白雪覆盖的高耸山峰时，我的一位同伴碰了碰我的手臂，当我们沿着蜿蜒的道路蜿蜒前行时，这座山似乎就在我们面前。

‘Look! Isten szek!’—‘God’s seat!’—and he crossed himself reverently.
'看！ Isten szek！”——“上帝的座位！”——他虔诚地在胸前画了十字。

As we wound on our endless way, and the sun sank lower and lower behind us, the shadows of the evening began to creep round us. This was emphasized by the fact that the snowy mountain-top still held the sunset, and seemed to glow out with a delicate cool pink. Here and there we passed Cszeks and slovaks, all in picturesque attire, but I noticed that goitre was painfully prevalent. By the roadside were many crosses, and as we swept by, my companions all crossed themselves. Here and there was a peasant man or woman kneeling before a shrine, who did not even turn round as we approached, but seemed in the self-surrender of devotion to have neither eyes nor ears for the outer world. There were many things new to me. For instance, hay-ricks in the trees, and here and there very beautiful masses of weeping birch, their white stems shining like silver through the delicate green of the leaves.
当我们蜿蜒在无尽的道路上时，太阳在我们身后落得越来越低，傍晚的阴影开始在我们周围蔓延。雪山的山顶还保留着夕阳，似乎散发着淡淡的冷粉色，这更强调了这一点。我们到处都经过捷克人和斯洛伐克人，他们都穿着漂亮的衣服，但我注意到甲状腺肿很普遍，令人痛苦。路边有很多十字架，当我们驶过时，我的同伴们都在自己身上画了十字。到处都有跪在神龛前的农夫，当我们走近时，他们甚至没有回头，但似乎对外部世界既没有眼睛也没有耳朵，表现出一种自我投降的虔诚。对我来说有很多新鲜事。例如，树上的干草堆，到处都是非常美丽的垂枝桦树，它们的白色茎在嫩绿的叶子上闪闪发光。

Now and again we passed a leiter-wagon—the ordinary peasants’s cart—with its long, snakelike vertebra, calculated to suit the inequalities of the road. On this were sure to be seated quite a group of homecoming peasants, the Cszeks with their white, and the Slovaks with their coloured sheepskins, the latter carrying lance-fashion their long staves, with axe at end. As the evening fell it began to get very cold, and the growing twilight seemed to merge into one dark mistiness the gloom of the trees, oak, beech, and pine, though in the valleys which ran deep between the spurs of the hills, as we ascended through the Pass, the dark firs stood out here and there against the background of late-lying snow. Sometimes, as the road was cut through the pine woods that seemed in the darkness to be closing down upon us, great masses of greyness which here and there bestrewed the trees, produced a peculiarly weird and solemn effect, which carried on the thoughts and grim fancies engendered earlier in the evening, when the falling sunset threw into strange relief the ghost-like clouds which amongst the Carpathians seem to wind ceaselessly through the valleys. Sometimes the hills were so steep that, despite our driver’s haste, the horses could only go slowly. I wished to get down and walk up them, as we do at home, but the driver would not hear of it. ‘No, no,’ he said. ‘You must not walk here. The dogs are too fierce.’ And then he added, with what he evidently meant for grim pleasantry—for he looked round to catch the approving smile of the rest—‘And you may have enough of such matters before you go to sleep.’ The only stop he would make was a moment’s pause to light his lamps.
我们时不时地经过一辆莱特马车——普通农民的手推车——它的车椎像蛇一样长，经过精心设计，可以适应不平坦的道路。上面肯定坐着一群返乡的农民，捷克人身穿白色衣服，斯洛伐克人则穿着彩色羊皮，后者手持长矛，末端插着斧头。夜幕降临时，天气开始变得非常寒冷，暮色渐浓，似乎将树木、橡树、山毛榉和松树的阴暗融进了一层黑暗的薄雾中，尽管在山脊之间深深延伸的山谷中，我们爬过山口，在晚雪的映衬下，深色的冷杉随处可见。有时，当道路穿过松树林时，松树林在黑暗中似乎正在向我们逼近，树木上到处布满了大片的灰色，产生了一种奇怪而庄严的效果，它承载着我们的思想和严峻。傍晚早些时候，当落日落下时，喀尔巴阡山脉中幽灵般的云彩显得格外浮现，这些云彩似乎不断地蜿蜒穿过山谷。有时山势陡峭，尽管车夫很急，马匹却只能慢慢前行。我想下车走上去，就像我们在家里做的那样，但司机不听。 “不，不，”他说。 ‘你不可以走到这里。这些狗太凶猛了。”然后他补充道，显然他的意思是冷酷的玩笑——因为他环顾四周，捕捉到了其他人赞许的微笑——“在你睡觉之前，你可能已经受够了这样的事情了。”他唯一会做的就是停下来点灯。

When it grew dark there seemed to be some excitement amongst the passengers, and they kept speaking to him, one after the other, as though urging him to further speed. He lashed the horses unmercifully with his long whip, and with wild cries of encouragement urged them on to further exertions. Then through the darkness I could see a sort of patch of grey light ahead of us, as though there were a cleft in the hills. The excitement of the passengers grew greater. The crazy coach rocked on its great leather springs, and swayed like a boat tossed on a stormy sea. I had to hold on. The road grew more level, and we appeared to fly along. Then the mountains seemed to come nearer to us on each side and to frown down upon us. We were entering on the Borgo Pass. One by one several of the passengers offered me gifts, which they pressed upon me with an earnestness which would take no denial. These were certainly of an odd and varied kind, but each was given in simple good faith, with a kindly word, and a blessing, and that same strange mixture of fear-meaning movements which I had seen outside the hotel at Bistritz—the sign of the cross and the guard against the evil eye. Then, as we flew along, the driver leaned forward, and on each side the passengers, craning over the edge of the coach, peered eagerly into the darkness. It was evident that something very exciting was either happening or expected, but though I asked each passenger, no one would give me the slightest explanation. This state of excitement kept on for some little time. And at last we saw before us the Pass opening out on the eastern side. There were dark, rolling clouds overhead, and in the air the heavy, oppressive sense of thunder. It seemed as though the mountain range had separated two atmospheres, and that now we had got into the thunderous one. I was now myself looking out for the conveyance which was to take me to the Count. Each moment I expected to see the glare of lamps through the blackness, but all was dark. The only light was the flickering rays of our own lamps, in which the steam from our hard-driven horses rose in a white cloud. We could see now the sandy road lying white before us, but there was on it no sign of a vehicle. The passengers drew back with a sigh of gladness, which seemed to mock my own disappointment. I was already thinking what I had best do, when the driver, looking at his watch, said to the others something which I could hardly hear, it was spoken so quietly and in so low a tone, I thought it was ‘An hour less than the time.’ Then turning to me, he spoke in German worse than my own.
天黑的时候，乘客们似乎有些兴奋，纷纷跟他说话，一个接一个，仿佛在催促他加快速度。他用长鞭无情地抽打着马匹，并用狂野的叫声鼓励它们继续努力。然后，透过黑暗，我可以看到前面有一片灰色的光，好像山上有一条裂缝。乘客们的兴奋情绪越来越高。这辆疯狂的马车靠着巨大的皮革弹簧摇晃着，就像一艘在波涛汹涌的大海上颠簸的小船一样摇晃。我必须坚持下去。道路变得更加平坦，我们似乎在飞翔。然后，两侧的山脉似乎离我们越来越近，并向我们皱起了眉头。我们正从博尔戈山口进入。几位乘客一一向我赠送了礼物，他们的态度诚恳，不容拒绝。这些肯定是一种奇怪而多样的类型，但每一个都是出于简单的善意，带有善意的话语和祝福，以及我在比斯特里茨酒店外面看到的同样奇怪的恐惧和含义动作的混合体——标志十字架和对邪眼的防范。然后，当我们飞驰时，司机身体前倾，两边的乘客都伸长在车厢边缘，热切地凝视着黑暗。显然，一些非常令人兴奋的事情要么正在发生，要么正在预料之中，但尽管我询问了每一位乘客，但没有人给我任何解释。这种兴奋的状态持续了一会儿。最后，我们看到了山口在东侧展开。头顶上乌云滚滚，空气中弥漫着沉重压抑的雷声。 山脉仿佛隔开了两种大气，而我们现在又进入了雷鸣般的大气中。我现在正在寻找要带我去伯爵那里的交通工具。每时每刻我都希望能在黑暗中看到耀眼的灯光，但一切都是黑暗的。唯一的光亮是我们自己的灯闪烁的光芒，我们奋力赶的马匹冒出的蒸汽在白云中升起。现在我们可以看到面前的沙路呈白色，但上面没有任何车辆的迹象。乘客们高兴地叹了一口气，退了回去，这似乎是在嘲笑我自己的失望。我已经在想我最好做什么，这时司机看着手表，对其他人说了一些我几乎听不见的话，说得那么轻，语气那么低，我以为是“少了一个小时” ”然后转向我，他说的德语比我的说得更糟糕。

‘There is no carriage here. The Herr is not expected after all. He will now come on to Bukovina, and return tomorrow or the next day, better the next day.’ Whilst he was speaking the horses began to neigh and snort and plunge wildly, so that the driver had to hold them up. Then, amongst a chorus of screams from the peasants and a universal crossing of themselves, a caleche, with four horses, drove up behind us, overtook us, and drew up beside the coach. I could see from the flash of our lamps as the rays fell on them, that the horses were coal-black and splendid animals. They were driven by a tall man, with a long brown beard and a great black hat, which seemed to hide his face from us. I could only see the gleam of a pair of very bright eyes, which seemed red in the lamplight, as he turned to us.
‘这里没有马车。毕竟，先生并不是人们所期待的。他现在将前往布科维纳，明天或后天返回，第二天会更好。”他说话的时候，马匹开始嘶鸣、喷鼻息，猛烈地冲下，以致车夫不得不把它们扶住。然后，在农民们的齐声尖叫声和普遍的十字声中，一辆四匹马拉的马车从我们身后驶来，超越了我们，停在了马车旁边。当光线照射到马身上时，我从灯的闪光中看到，这些马是煤黑色的、美丽的动物。驾驶他们的是一个高个子男人，留着长长的棕色胡须，戴着一顶黑色的大帽子，似乎遮住了我们的脸。我只能看到他转向我们时，一双非常明亮的眼睛在灯光下显得红红的。

He said to the driver, ‘You are early tonight, my friend.’
他对司机说：“你今晚来得很早，我的朋友。”

The man stammered in reply, ‘The English Herr was in a hurry.’
那人结结巴巴地回答道：“英国先生很着急。”

To which the stranger replied, ‘That is why, I suppose, you wished him to go on to Bukovina. You cannot deceive me, my friend. I know too much, and my horses are swift.’
陌生人回答说：“我想，这就是为什么你希望他继续去布科维纳。”你不能欺骗我，我的朋友。我知道的太多了，我的马也跑得很快。

As he spoke he smiled, and the lamplight fell on a hard-looking mouth, with very red lips and sharp-looking teeth, as white as ivory. One of my companions whispered to another the line from Burger’s ‘Lenore”.
他一边说着，一边微笑着，灯光落在一张看上去很严肃的嘴上，嘴唇很红，牙齿锋利，洁白如象牙。我的一个同伴向另一个同伴低声念叨着伯格的《丽诺尔》中的台词。

‘Denn die Todten reiten Schnell.’ (“For the dead travel fast.’)
“Denn die Todten reiten Schnell。”（“为了死者的快速旅行。”）

The strange driver evidently heard the words, for he looked up with a gleaming smile. The passenger turned his face away, at the same time putting out his two fingers and crossing himself. ‘Give me the Herr’s luggage,’ said the driver, and with exceeding alacrity my bags were handed out and put in the caleche. Then I descended from the side of the coach, as the caleche was close alongside, the driver helping me with a hand which caught my arm in a grip of steel. His strength must have been prodigious.
陌生司机显然听到了这句话，抬起头来，笑容灿烂。乘客转过脸去，同时伸出两根手指，在胸前画了十字。 “把先生的行李给我。”司机说道，我的行李很快就被递了出来，放进了马车里。然后我从马车一侧下来，因为马车就在旁边，司机用一只手扶着我，用钢铁抓住了我的手臂。他的实力一定非常惊人。

Without a word he shook his reins, the horses turned, and we swept into the darkness of the pass. As I looked back I saw the steam from the horses of the coach by the light of the lamps, and projected against it the figures of my late companions crossing themselves. Then the driver cracked his whip and called to his horses, and off they swept on their way to Bukovina. As they sank into the darkness I felt a strange chill, and a lonely feeling come over me. But a cloak was thrown over my shoulders, and a rug across my knees, and the driver said in excellent German—‘The night is chill, mein Herr, and my master the Count bade me take all care of you. There is a flask of slivovitz (the plum brandy of the country) underneath the seat, if you should require it.’
他一言不发地摇动缰绳，马匹调转方向，我们就冲进了山口的黑暗之中。当我回头望去时，我在车灯的照耀下看到了马车的马匹冒出的蒸汽，映衬出我已故同伴在胸前画十字的身影。然后车夫挥动鞭子，召唤他的马匹，他们就出发前往布科维纳。当他们陷入黑暗时，我感到一种奇怪的寒意，一种孤独的感觉袭上心头。但是一件斗篷披在我的肩上，一块地毯搭在我的膝盖上，司机用流利的德语说道：“夜晚很冷，我的先生，我的主人伯爵吩咐我照顾好你。”如果您需要的话，座位下面有一瓶 slivovitz（该国的李子白兰地）。

I did not take any, but it was a comfort to know it was there all the same. I felt a little strangely, and not a little frightened. I think had there been any alternative I should have taken it, instead of prosecuting that unknown night journey. The carriage went at a hard pace straight along, then we made a complete turn and went along another straight road. It seemed to me that we were simply going over and over the same ground again, and so I took note of some salient point, and found that this was so. I would have liked to have asked the driver what this all meant, but I really feared to do so, for I thought that, placed as I was, any protest would have had no effect in case there had been an intention to delay.
我没有拿任何东西，但知道它仍然在那里，我感到很安慰。我感觉有点奇怪，但也没有一点害怕。我想如果有其他选择的话我应该选择它，而不是继续那个未知的夜间旅程。马车迈着沉重的步伐，笔直地向前走，然后我们转了一个弯，沿着另一条笔直的道路走去。在我看来，我们只是在同一个地方一遍又一遍地重复，所以我记下了一些要点，发现事实确实如此。我本来想问司机这一切意味着什么，但我真的很害怕这样做，因为我认为，以我的处境，如果有人故意拖延的话，任何抗议都不会产生任何效果。

By-and-by, however, as I was curious to know how time was passing, I struck a match, and by its flame looked at my watch. It was within a few minutes of midnight. This gave me a sort of shock, for I suppose the general superstition about midnight was increased by my recent experiences. I waited with a sick feeling of suspense.
然而，不久之后，我很好奇时间是如何流逝的，于是我划了一根火柴，借着火苗看表。距离午夜还有几分钟。这让我有些震惊，因为我认为我最近的经历增加了对午夜的普遍迷信。我带着一种恶心的悬念等待着。

Then a dog began to howl somewhere in a farmhouse far down the road, a long, agonized wailing, as if from fear. The sound was taken up by another dog, and then another and another, till, borne on the wind which now sighed softly through the Pass, a wild howling began, which seemed to come from all over the country, as far as the imagination could grasp it through the gloom of the night.
然后，路边远处的一座农舍里，一只狗开始嚎叫，一种漫长而痛苦的哀号，仿佛是出于恐惧。声音被另一只狗听到，然后又一只又一只，直到，随着现在轻轻地叹息穿过山口的风，开始发出一阵狂野的嚎叫，据想象，它似乎来自全国各地。抓住它，穿过黑夜。

At the first howl the horses began to strain and rear, but the driver spoke to them soothingly, and they quieted down, but shivered and sweated as though after a runaway from sudden fright. Then, far off in the distance, from the mountains on each side of us began a louder and a sharper howling, that of wolves, which affected both the horses and myself in the same way. For I was minded to jump from the caleche and run, whilst they reared again and plunged madly, so that the driver had to use all his great strength to keep them from bolting. In a few minutes, however, my own ears got accustomed to the sound, and the horses so far became quiet that the driver was able to descend and to stand before them.
听到第一声嚎叫，马匹开始紧张并后仰，但车夫安慰他们，他们安静下来，但浑身发抖，出汗，仿佛突然受到惊吓而逃跑。然后，在远处，从我们两侧的山上传来了更响亮、更尖锐的狼嚎声，这对马和我都产生了同样的影响。因为我一心想从马车上跳下来就跑，而他们却又站起身来，疯狂地往下冲，车夫不得不用尽全身的力气才不让他们狂奔。然而，几分钟后，我自己的耳朵就习惯了这种声音，马匹也安静下来，以至于车夫能够下来站在它们面前。

He petted and soothed them, and whispered something in their ears, as I have heard of horse-tamers doing, and with extraordinary effect, for under his caresses they became quite manageable again, though they still trembled. The driver again took his seat, and shaking his reins, started off at a great pace. This time, after going to the far side of the Pass, he suddenly turned down a narrow roadway which ran sharply to the right.
他抚摸着它们，安抚它们，在它们耳边低声说了些什么，就像我听说驯马师所做的那样，效果非凡，因为在他的爱抚下，它们又变得很容易控制了，尽管它们仍然在颤抖。车夫重新坐回座位，甩动缰绳，大步出发。这一次，他走到关口的另一边后，突然拐进了一条向右急转的狭窄道路。

Soon we were hemmed in with trees, which in places arched right over the roadway till we passed as through a tunnel. And again great frowning rocks guarded us boldly on either side. Though we were in shelter, we could hear the rising wind, for it moaned and whistled through the rocks, and the branches of the trees crashed together as we swept along. It grew colder and colder still, and fine, powdery snow began to fall, so that soon we and all around us were covered with a white blanket. The keen wind still carried the howling of the dogs, though this grew fainter as we went on our way. The baying of the wolves sounded nearer and nearer, as though they were closing round on us from every side. I grew dreadfully afraid, and the horses shared my fear. The driver, however, was not in the least disturbed. He kept turning his head to left and right, but I could not see anything through the darkness.
很快我们就被树木包围了，有些地方的树木在道路上呈拱形，直到我们穿过一条隧道。巨大的皱眉岩石再次勇敢地在两侧守护着我们。尽管我们躲在避难所里，但我们还是能听到呼啸而过的风声，风在岩石间发出呻吟声和呼啸声，当我们疾驰而过时，树枝相互撞击在一起。天气越来越冷，细细的粉雪开始飘落，很快我们和周围就被盖上了一层白色的毯子。凛冽的风中仍然夹杂着狗的嚎叫声，不过随着我们的前行，这种声音变得越来越微弱。狼群的叫声越来越近，仿佛它们正从四面八方逼近我们。我变得非常害怕，马也和我一样害怕。然而，司机却丝毫没有感到不安。他不停地左右转动头，但透过黑暗我什么也看不见。

Suddenly, away on our left I saw a faint flickering blue flame. The driver saw it at the same moment. He at once checked the horses, and, jumping to the ground, disappeared into the darkness. I did not know what to do, the less as the howling of the wolves grew closer. But while I wondered, the driver suddenly appeared again, and without a word took his seat, and we resumed our journey. I think I must have fallen asleep and kept dreaming of the incident, for it seemed to be repeated endlessly, and now looking back, it is like a sort of awful nightmare. Once the flame appeared so near the road, that even in the darkness around us I could watch the driver’s motions. He went rapidly to where the blue flame arose, it must have been very faint, for it did not seem to illumine the place around it at all, and gathering a few stones, formed them into some device.
突然，在我们左边，我看到了微弱闪烁的蓝色火焰。司机也在同一时间看到了这一幕。他立刻检查了马匹，然后跳到地上，消失在黑暗中。我不知道该怎么办，随着狼嚎声越来越近，我更不知道该怎么办。可正当我疑惑的时候，司机突然又出现了，二话不说就坐了下来，我们又继续上路了。我想我一定是睡着了，一直梦到这件事，因为这件事似乎无休无止地重复着，现在回想起来，这就像一场可怕的噩梦。一旦火焰出现在离道路很近的地方，即使在我们周围的黑暗中我也能看到司机的动作。他快速走到那蓝色火焰升起的地方，那火焰一定很微弱，似乎根本没有照亮周围的地方，然后收集了几块石头，将它们制成了某种装置。

Once there appeared a strange optical effect. When he stood between me and the flame he did not obstruct it, for I could see its ghostly flicker all the same. This startled me, but as the effect was only momentary, I took it that my eyes deceived me straining through the darkness. Then for a time there were no blue flames, and we sped onwards through the gloom, with the howling of the wolves around us, as though they were following in a moving circle.
有一次出现了一种奇怪的光学效应。当他站在我和火焰之间时，他并没有阻挡它，因为我仍然可以看到它幽灵般的闪烁。这让我吃了一惊，但由于效果只是短暂的，我以为我的眼睛欺骗了我，在黑暗中努力挣扎。有一段时间，蓝色的火焰消失了，我们在黑暗中疾驰，狼群的嚎叫声围绕着我们，仿佛它们在围着一个移动的圆圈尾随其后。

At last there came a time when the driver went further afield than he had yet gone, and during his absence, the horses began to tremble worse than ever and to snort and scream with fright. I could not see any cause for it, for the howling of the wolves had ceased altogether. But just then the moon, sailing through the black clouds, appeared behind the jagged crest of a beetling, pine-clad rock, and by its light I saw around us a ring of wolves, with white teeth and lolling red tongues, with long, sinewy limbs and shaggy hair. They were a hundred times more terrible in the grim silence which held them than even when they howled. For myself, I felt a sort of paralysis of fear. It is only when a man feels himself face to face with such horrors that he can understand their true import.
终于有一天，车夫走得比他还远，在他不在的期间，马匹开始颤抖得比以前更厉害，并因恐惧而喷鼻息和尖叫。我看不出有什么原因，因为狼的嚎叫声已经完全停止了。但就在这时，月亮穿过乌云，出现在一块长满松树的甲虫岩石的锯齿状山顶后面，借着月亮的光，我看到我们周围有一圈狼，它们长着白色的牙齿和耷拉着的红舌头，长着长长的、强健的四肢和蓬松的头发。他们在严酷的寂静中比在嚎叫时更加可怕一百倍。对于我自己来说，我感到一种恐惧的麻痹。只有当一个人感受到自己面对这样的恐怖时，他才能理解它们的真正意义。

All at once the wolves began to howl as though the moonlight had had some peculiar effect on them. The horses jumped about and reared, and looked helplessly round with eyes that rolled in a way painful to see. But the living ring of terror encompassed them on every side, and they had perforce to remain within it. I called to the coachman to come, for it seemed to me that our only chance was to try to break out through the ring and to aid his approach, I shouted and beat the side of the caleche, hoping by the noise to scare the wolves from the side, so as to give him a chance of reaching the trap. How he came there, I know not, but I heard his voice raised in a tone of imperious command, and looking towards the sound, saw him stand in the roadway. As he swept his long arms, as though brushing aside some impalpable obstacle, the wolves fell back and back further still. Just then a heavy cloud passed across the face of the moon, so that we were again in darkness.
突然，狼群开始嚎叫，仿佛月光对它们产生了某种特殊的影响。马匹跳来跳去，直立起来，无助地环顾四周，眼睛转动得令人痛苦。但恐怖的活生生的环从四面八方包围着他们，他们不得不留在其中。我叫车夫过来，因为在我看来，我们唯一的机会就是试图冲破围场并帮助他接近，我大喊并敲打马车的侧面，希望通过噪音吓跑狼群从侧面，以便给他到达陷阱的机会。我不知道他是怎么到那里的，但我听到他的声音提高了，带着一种专横的命令语气，我顺着声音看去，看到他站在巷子里。当他挥舞着长长的手臂，仿佛扫开了一些难以触及的障碍时，狼群们向后倒去，跌得更厉害了。就在这时，一片厚厚的云层掠过月亮的表面，我们又陷入了黑暗之中。

When I could see again the driver was climbing into the caleche, and the wolves disappeared. This was all so strange and uncanny that a dreadful fear came upon me, and I was afraid to speak or move. The time seemed interminable as we swept on our way, now in almost complete darkness, for the rolling clouds obscured the moon.
当我再次看见时，司机已经爬进马车，狼群就消失了。这一切是如此的奇怪和不可思议，我感到一种可怕的恐惧，我不敢说话，不敢动弹。我们一路前行，时间似乎没有尽头，现在几乎完全黑暗了，滚滚的云遮住了月亮。

We kept on ascending, with occasional periods of quick descent, but in the main always ascending. Suddenly, I became conscious of the fact that the driver was in the act of pulling up the horses in the courtyard of a vast ruined castle, from whose tall black windows came no ray of light, and whose broken battlements showed a jagged line against the sky.
我们继续上升，偶尔会快速下降，但总体来说总是在上升。突然，我意识到，车夫正在一座巨大的废墟城堡的院子里拉马，从城堡高高的黑色窗户里看不到一丝光线，破碎的城垛在城堡的映衬下呈现出锯齿状的线条。天空。

Chapter 2
第2章

Jonathan Harker’s Journal Continued
乔纳森·哈克的日记续

5 May.—I must have been asleep, for certainly if I had been fully awake I must have noticed the approach of such a remarkable place. In the gloom the courtyard looked of considerable size, and as several dark ways led from it under great round arches, it perhaps seemed bigger than it really is. I have not yet been able to see it by daylight.
5 月 5 日——我一定是睡着了，因为如果我完全醒着的话，我一定会注意到这样一个非凡的地方正在逼近。在昏暗的夜色中，庭院看起来相当大，而且在巨大的圆拱门下有几条黑暗的通道从庭院中引出，它看起来可能比实际情况要大。我还没能在白天看到它。

When the caleche stopped, the driver jumped down and held out his hand to assist me to alight. Again I could not but notice his prodigious strength. His hand actually seemed like a steel vice that could have crushed mine if he had chosen. Then he took my traps, and placed them on the ground beside me as I stood close to a great door, old and studded with large iron nails, and set in a projecting doorway of massive stone. I could see even in the dim light that the stone was massively carved, but that the carving had been much worn by time and weather. As I stood, the driver jumped again into his seat and shook the reins. The horses started forward, and trap and all disappeared down one of the dark openings.
当马车停下来时，司机跳下车伸出手来扶我下车。我再次不得不注意到他惊人的力量。他的手实际上就像一把钢虎钳，如果他愿意的话，可以压碎我的手。然后他拿起我的陷阱，把它们放在我旁边的地上，当时我站在一扇大门附近，大门很旧，上面镶嵌着大铁钉，放在一个突出的巨大石头门口。即使在昏暗的光线下，我也能看到石头上有大量的雕刻，但由于时间和天气的影响，雕刻已经磨损得很厉害了。当我站起来时，车夫又跳到座位上，摇动缰绳。马匹开始向前走，然后全部消失在一个黑暗的开口处。

I stood in silence where I was, for I did not know what to do. Of bell or knocker there was no sign. Through these frowning walls and dark window openings it was not likely that my voice could penetrate. The time I waited seemed endless, and I felt doubts and fears crowding upon me. What sort of place had I come to, and among what kind of people? What sort of grim adventure was it on which I had embarked? Was this a customary incident in the life of a solicitor’s clerk sent out to explain the purchase of a London estate to a foreigner? Solicitor’s clerk! Mina would not like that. Solicitor, for just before leaving London I got word that my examination was successful, and I am now a full-blown solicitor! I began to rub my eyes and pinch myself to see if I were awake. It all seemed like a horrible nightmare to me, and I expected that I should suddenly awake, and find myself at home, with the dawn struggling in through the windows, as I had now and again felt in the morning after a day of overwork. But my flesh answered the pinching test, and my eyes were not to be deceived. I was indeed awake and among the Carpathians. All I could do now was to be patient, and to wait the coming of morning.
我静静地站在原地，因为我不知道该怎么办。没有铃或门环的迹象。我的声音不太可能透过这些皱着眉头的墙壁和黑暗的窗户开口。我等待的时间似乎无穷无尽，我感到怀疑和恐惧涌上心头。我来到了什么样的地方，和什么样的人在一起？我开始了一场怎样的残酷冒险？对于一名被派去向外国人解释购买伦敦房产的律师办事员来说，这是生活中常见的事件吗？律师的办事员！米娜不会喜欢这样。律师，就在离开伦敦之前，我得到消息说我的考试成功了，我现在是一名成熟的律师了！我开始揉眼睛，捏自己，看看自己是否醒了。这一切对我来说就像是一场可怕的噩梦，我期望我会突然醒来，发现自己在家里，黎明从窗户里挣扎着进来，就像我在一天过度劳累后的早晨时不时感受到的那样。但我的肉体经受住了捏捏测试，我的眼睛不会被欺骗。我确实醒了，身处喀尔巴阡山脉之中。我现在能做的就是耐心等待，等待早晨的到来。

Just as I had come to this conclusion I heard a heavy step approaching behind the great door, and saw through the chinks the gleam of a coming light. Then there was the sound of rattling chains and the clanking of massive bolts drawn back. A key was turned with the loud grating noise of long disuse, and the great door swung back.
正当我得出这个结论时，我听到大门后面有沉重的脚步声靠近，并透过缝隙看到了进来的光线。然后是链条嘎嘎作响的声音和巨大螺栓拉回的叮当声。一把钥匙被转动，发出长期未使用的巨大刺耳声，大门向后打开。

Within, stood a tall old man, clean shaven save for a long white moustache, and clad in black from head to foot, without a single speck of colour about him anywhere. He held in his hand an antique silver lamp, in which the flame burned without a chimney or globe of any kind, throwing long quivering shadows as it flickered in the draught of the open door. The old man motioned me in with his right hand with a courtly gesture, saying in excellent English, but with a strange intonation.
里面站着一个身材高大的老者，胡子刮得干干净净，只留着长长的白胡子，从头到脚一身黑衣，身上没有任何一点颜色。他手里拿着一盏古色古香的银灯，里面的火焰在没有烟囱或任何类型的球体的情况下燃烧，在敞开的门的气流中闪烁时投下长长的颤动的影子。老人用右手示意我进去，做出了礼貌的手势，用流利的英语说着，但语调很奇怪。

‘Welcome to my house! Enter freely and of your own free will!’ He made no motion of stepping to meet me, but stood like a statue, as though his gesture of welcome had fixed him into stone. The instant, however, that I had stepped over the threshold, he moved impulsively forward, and holding out his hand grasped mine with a strength which made me wince, an effect which was not lessened by the fact that it seemed cold as ice, more like the hand of a dead than a living man. Again he said.
'欢迎到我家来！自由地、自愿地进入！”他没有迈步迎接我的动作，而是像一座雕像一样站着，仿佛他的欢迎姿态把他固定在了石头上。然而，当我跨过门槛的那一刻，他冲动地向前走去，伸出手握住我的手，用力使我皱起眉头，这种效果并没有因为它看起来冷如冰而减弱，更多的是就像死人的手比活人的手。他又说道。

‘Welcome to my house! Enter freely. Go safely, and leave something of the happiness you bring!’ The strength of the handshake was so much akin to that which I had noticed in the driver, whose face I had not seen, that for a moment I doubted if it were not the same person to whom I was speaking. So to make sure, I said interrogatively, ‘Count Dracula?’
'欢迎到我家来！自由进入。安全地走，留下一些你带来的幸福！”握手的力度与我在司机身上注意到的非常相似，但我没有看到他的脸，有那么一会儿我怀疑这是否是他的手。和我说话的人是同一个人。为了确认这一点，我疑惑地说：“德古拉伯爵？”

He bowed in a courtly way as he replied, ‘I am Dracula, and I bid you welcome, Mr. Harker, to my house. Come in, the night air is chill, and you must need to eat and rest.’ As he was speaking, he put the lamp on a bracket on the wall, and stepping out, took my luggage. He had carried it in before I could forestall him. I protested, but he insisted.
他礼貌地鞠了一躬，回答道：“我是德古拉，哈克先生，欢迎您来到我家。”进来吧，夜晚的空气很冷，你必须吃饭休息。”说着，他把灯放在墙上的支架上，走出去，拿走了我的行李。我还没来得及阻止他，他就已经把它拿了进来。我抗议，但他坚持。

‘Nay, sir, you are my guest. It is late, and my people are not available. Let me see to your comfort myself.’ He insisted on carrying my traps along the passage, and then up a great winding stair, and along another great passage, on whose stone floor our steps rang heavily. At the end of this he threw open a heavy door, and I rejoiced to see within a well-lit room in which a table was spread for supper, and on whose mighty hearth a great fire of logs, freshly replenished, flamed and flared.
“不，先生，你是我的客人。已经很晚了，我的人没空。让我亲自去安慰一下你。”他坚持要带着我的陷阱沿着通道走，然后登上一个巨大的蜿蜒楼梯，沿着另一条巨大的通道，我们的脚步声在石头地板上沉重地响起。最后，他推开了一扇厚重的门，我高兴地看到一间光线充足的房间，里面摆着一张桌子，准备吃晚饭，壁炉里生着一堆刚添满的木柴，熊熊燃烧。

The Count halted, putting down my bags, closed the door, and crossing the room, opened another door, which led into a small octagonal room lit by a single lamp, and seemingly without a window of any sort. Passing through this, he opened another door, and motioned me to enter. It was a welcome sight. For here was a great bedroom well lighted and warmed with another log fire, also added to but lately, for the top logs were fresh, which sent a hollow roar up the wide chimney. The Count himself left my luggage inside and withdrew, saying, before he closed the door.
伯爵停了下来，放下我的行李，关上门，穿过房间，打开另一扇门，通向一间只有一盏灯的八角形小房间，似乎没有任何窗户。穿过这里，他打开了另一扇门，示意我进去。这是一个受欢迎的景象。因为这里有一间宽敞的卧室，光线充足，还用另一个木火取暖，也是最近才添加的，因为顶部的木头是新鲜的，这从宽大的烟囱里发出空洞的轰鸣声。伯爵亲自把我的行李放在里面，一边说着退出，一边关上了门。

‘You will need, after your journey, to refresh yourself by making your toilet. I trust you will find all you wish. When you are ready, come into the other room, where you will find your supper prepared.’
“旅途结束后，你需要通过整理厕所来让自己恢复精神。我相信你会找到你想要的一切。当你准备好后，进入另一个房间，你会发现你的晚餐已经准备好了。

The light and warmth and the Count’s courteous welcome seemed to have dissipated all my doubts and fears. Having then reached my normal state, I discovered that I was half famished with hunger. So making a hasty toilet, I went into the other room.
光线、温暖和伯爵彬彬有礼的欢迎似乎驱散了我所有的疑虑和恐惧。等恢复到正常状态后，我发现自己已经饿得半死了。于是匆匆上个厕所，我就走进了另一个房间。

I found supper already laid out. My host, who stood on one side of the great fireplace, leaning against the stonework, made a graceful wave of his hand to the table, and said,
我发现晚饭已经摆好了。我的主人站在大壁炉的一侧，靠着石雕，向桌子优雅地挥了挥手，说道：

‘I pray you, be seated and sup how you please. You will I trust, excuse me that I do not join you, but I have dined already, and I do not sup.’
“请您坐下来，尽情享用吧。”我相信你会的，请原谅我不加入你，但我已经吃过饭了，我不吃晚饭。

I handed to him the sealed letter which Mr. Hawkins had entrusted to me. He opened it and read it gravely. Then, with a charming smile, he handed it to me to read. One passage of it, at least, gave me a thrill of pleasure.
我把霍金斯先生托付给我的密封信交给了他。他打开它，严肃地读着。然后，他带着迷人的微笑，把它递给我读。至少其中的一段给我带来了一种快感。

‘I must regret that an attack of gout, from which malady I am a constant sufferer, forbids absolutely any travelling on my part for some time to come. But I am happy to say I can send a sufficient substitute, one in whom I have every possible confidence. He is a young man, full of energy and talent in his own way, and of a very faithful disposition. He is discreet and silent, and has grown into manhood in my service. He shall be ready to attend on you when you will during his stay, and shall take your instructions in all matters.’
“我很遗憾痛风发作，我一直患有这种疾病，在未来一段时间内绝对禁止我任何旅行。但我很高兴地说我可以派出一名足够的替补，我对他充满信心。他是一个年轻人，充满活力、才华横溢，而且性格非常忠诚。他为人谨慎、沉默寡言，在为我服务的过程中逐渐成长为男子汉。在他逗留期间，只要您愿意，他就会随时准备照顾您，并在所有事务上听从您的指示。

The count himself came forward and took off the cover of a dish, and I fell to at once on an excellent roast chicken. This, with some cheese and a salad and a bottle of old tokay, of which I had two glasses, was my supper. During the time I was eating it the Count asked me many questions as to my journey, and I told him by degrees all I had experienced.
伯爵亲自走上前，揭开盘子的盖子，我立刻就吃了一顿美味的烤鸡。这就是我的晚餐，还有一些奶酪、一份沙拉和一瓶老托卡伊酒，我喝了两杯。在我吃的时候，伯爵问了我很多关于我的旅程的问题，我一点一点地告诉他我所经历的一切。

By this time I had finished my supper, and by my host’s desire had drawn up a chair by the fire and begun to smoke a cigar which he offered me, at the same time excusing himself that he did not smoke. I had now an opportunity of observing him, and found him of a very marked physiognomy.
这时我已经吃完了晚饭，按照主人的要求，我在火边拉了一把椅子，开始抽他递给我的雪茄，同时借口自己不抽烟。现在我有机会观察他，发现他的相貌非常明显。

His face was a strong, a very strong, aquiline, with high bridge of the thin nose and peculiarly arched nostrils, with lofty domed forehead, and hair growing scantily round the temples but profusely elsewhere. His eyebrows were very massive, almost meeting over the nose, and with bushy hair that seemed to curl in its own profusion. The mouth, so far as I could see it under the heavy moustache, was fixed and rather cruel-looking, with peculiarly sharp white teeth. These protruded over the lips, whose remarkable ruddiness showed astonishing vitality in a man of his years. For the rest, his ears were pale, and at the tops extremely pointed. The chin was broad and strong, and the cheeks firm though thin. The general effect was one of extraordinary pallor.
他的脸是一张强健的、非常强健的鹰嘴形，有着高高的鼻梁、细长的鼻梁和奇特的拱形鼻孔，高高的圆顶前额，两鬓周围的头发稀疏，但其他地方却长得很茂盛。他的眉毛非常浓密，几乎在鼻子上方交汇，头发浓密，似乎自己卷曲着。就我所见，浓密的小胡子下的嘴巴是固定的，看起来相当残忍，牙齿特别锋利。嘴唇突出，红润的嘴唇显示出他这个年纪的人惊人的活力。除此之外，他的耳朵是苍白的，而且顶部非常尖。下巴宽而有力，脸颊虽瘦但坚挺。总体效果是一种非同寻常的苍白。

Hitherto I had noticed the backs of his hands as they lay on his knees in the firelight, and they had seemed rather white and fine. But seeing them now close to me, I could not but notice that they were rather coarse, broad, with squat fingers. Strange to say, there were hairs in the centre of the palm. The nails were long and fine, and cut to a sharp point. As the Count leaned over me and his hands touched me, I could not repress a shudder. It may have been that his breath was rank, but a horrible feeling of nausea came over me, which, do what I would, I could not conceal.
到目前为止，我注意到他的手背在火光下放在膝盖上，看起来相当白皙细腻。但现在看到它们离我很近，我不禁注意到它们相当粗糙、宽大，手指粗壮。说也奇怪，手掌中央竟然长着一根汗毛。指甲又长又细，而且尖尖的。当伯爵俯身在我身上，他的手触碰我时，我无法抑制地颤抖。也许他的呼吸很臭，但我却感到一种可怕的恶心感，无论我怎么想，我都无法掩饰这种感觉。

The Count, evidently noticing it, drew back. And with a grim sort of smile, which showed more than he had yet done his protruberant teeth, sat himself down again on his own side of the fireplace. We were both silent for a while, and as I looked towards the window I saw the first dim streak of the coming dawn. There seemed a strange stillness over everything. But as I listened, I heard as if from down below in the valley the howling of many wolves. The Count’s eyes gleamed, and he said.
伯爵显然注意到了这一点，向后退了一步。他带着一种冷酷的微笑，露出了他那颗突出的牙齿，然后又在壁炉自己的一边坐下了。我们俩沉默了一会儿，当我向窗户望去时，我看到了即将到来的黎明的第一道昏暗的光线。一切似乎都有一种奇怪的寂静。但当我倾听时，我听到山谷里仿佛传来许多狼的嚎叫声。伯爵双眼放光，说道。

‘Listen to them, the children of the night. What music they make!’ Seeing, I suppose, some expression in my face strange to him, he added, ‘Ah, sir, you dwellers in the city cannot enter into the feelings of the hunter.’ Then he rose and said.
‘听听他们，黑夜之子。他们发出了多么美妙的音乐！”我想，他看到我脸上有些奇怪的表情，就补充道：“啊，先生，你们城里的居民无法体会猎人的感受。”然后他站起来说道。

‘But you must be tired. Your bedroom is all ready, and tomorrow you shall sleep as late as you will. I have to be away till the afternoon, so sleep well and dream well!’ With a courteous bow, he opened for me himself the door to the octagonal room, and I entered my bedroom.
‘但是你一定很累了。你的卧室已经准备好了，明天你想睡多久就睡多久。我要离开到下午，所以好好睡一觉吧！”他礼貌地鞠了一躬，亲自为我打开了八角形房间的门，我走进了我的卧室。

I am all in a sea of wonders. I doubt. I fear. I think strange things, which I dare not confess to my own soul. God keep me, if only for the sake of those dear to me!
我整个人都沉浸在奇迹的海洋里。我怀疑。我怕。我的想法很奇怪，但我不敢向自己的灵魂承认。上帝保佑我，哪怕只是为了那些我所爱的人！

7 May.—It is again early morning, but I have rested and enjoyed the last twenty-four hours. I slept till late in the day, and awoke of my own accord. When I had dressed myself I went into the room where we had supped, and found a cold breakfast laid out, with coffee kept hot by the pot being placed on the hearth. There was a card on the table, on which was written—‘I have to be absent for a while. Do not wait for me. D.’ I set to and enjoyed a hearty meal. When I had done, I looked for a bell, so that I might let the servants know I had finished, but I could not find one. There are certainly odd deficiencies in the house, considering the extraordinary evidences of wealth which are round me. The table service is of gold, and so beautifully wrought that it must be of immense value. The curtains and upholstery of the chairs and sofas and the hangings of my bed are of the costliest and most beautiful fabrics, and must have been of fabulous value when they were made, for they are centuries old, though in excellent order. I saw something like them in Hampton Court, but they were worn and frayed and moth-eaten. But still in none of the rooms is there a mirror. There is not even a toilet glass on my table, and I had to get the little shaving glass from my bag before I could either shave or brush my hair. I have not yet seen a servant anywhere, or heard a sound near the castle except the howling of wolves. Some time after I had finished my meal, I do not know whether to call it breakfast or dinner, for it was between five and six o’clock when I had it, I looked about for something to read, for I did not like to go about the castle until I had asked the Count’s permission. There was absolutely nothing in the room, book, newspaper, or even writing materials, so I opened another door in the room and found a sort of library. The door opposite mine I tried, but found locked.
5 月 7 日——又是清晨，但我已经休息并享受了过去的二十四小时。那天我睡到很晚，自己就醒了。当我穿好衣服后，我走进我们吃晚饭的房间，发现冷早餐已经摆好，咖啡放在炉边的壶里保持着热气。桌子上有一张卡片，上面写着——‘我要离开一段时间。不要等我。 D.’我开始享受一顿丰盛的晚餐。完成后，我寻找铃铛，以便让仆人知道我已经完成了，但我找不到。考虑到我周围的财富的非凡证据，房子里肯定有一些奇怪的缺陷。餐具是金子做的，做工如此精美，一定价值不菲。窗帘、椅子和沙发的软垫以及我床上的窗帘都是用最昂贵、最漂亮的布料制成的，它们在制造时一定具有惊人的价值，因为它们已有数百年历史，尽管状况良好。我在汉普顿宫看到过类似的东西，但它们已经破旧、破损、虫蛀。但仍然没有一个房间有镜子。我的桌子上什至没有马桶玻璃，我必须从包里拿出小剃须玻璃杯才能刮胡子或刷头发。我还没有在任何地方看到仆人，也没有听到城堡附近除了狼嚎之外的任何声音。吃完饭后的一段时间，我不知道该称之为早餐还是晚餐，因为我吃完饭的时候已经是五点到六点了，我想找点东西看，因为我不喜欢看书。在征得伯爵许可之前，我可以在城堡里四处走动。 房间里什么也没有，没有书，没有报纸，甚至没有任何书写材料，所以我打开房间的另一扇门，发现了一个类似图书馆的地方。我尝试了我对面的门，但发现锁着。

In the library I found, to my great delight, a vast number of English books, whole shelves full of them, and bound volumes of magazines and newspapers. A table in the centre was littered with English magazines and newspapers, though none of them were of very recent date. The books were of the most varied kind, history, geography, politics, political economy, botany, geology, law, all relating to England and English life and customs and manners. There were even such books of reference as the London Directory, the ‘Red’ and ‘Blue’ books, Whitaker’s Almanac, the Army and Navy Lists, and it somehow gladdened my heart to see it, the Law List.
令我高兴的是，图书馆里有大量的英文书籍，书架上摆满了它们，还有装订成册的杂志和报纸。中间的一张桌子上堆满了英文杂志和报纸，但都不是最新的。这些书籍种类繁多，历史、地理、政治、政治经济学、植物学、地质学、法律，全都与英格兰和英国人的生活、风俗习惯有关。甚至还有诸如《伦敦指南》、《红书》和《蓝书》、惠特克年鉴、陆军和海军清单之类的参考书，不知何故，看到它——《法律清单》，我心里感到很高兴。

Whilst I was looking at the books, the door opened, and the Count entered. He saluted me in a hearty way, and hoped that I had had a good night’s rest. Then he went on.
当我看书的时候，门开了，伯爵进来了。他由衷地向我打招呼，并希望我昨晚睡得很好。然后他继续说下去。

‘I am glad you found your way in here, for I am sure there is much that will interest you. These companions,’ and he laid his hand on some of the books, ‘have been good friends to me, and for some years past, ever since I had the idea of going to London, have given me many, many hours of pleasure. Through them I have come to know your great England, and to know her is to love her. I long to go through the crowded streets of your mighty London, to be in the midst of the whirl and rush of humanity, to share its life, its change, its death, and all that makes it what it is. But alas! As yet I only know your tongue through books. To you, my friend, I look that I know it to speak.’
“我很高兴你找到了这里，因为我相信这里有很多东西会让你感兴趣。这些同伴，”他把手放在一些书上，“一直是我的好朋友，在过去的几年里，自从我有了去伦敦的想法以来，他们给了我很多很多的快乐。通过他们，我开始了解你们伟大的英格兰，了解她就是爱她。我渴望穿过强大的伦敦拥挤的街道，置身于人类的旋转和奔腾之中，分享它的生命、它的变化、它的死亡，以及使它成为现实的一切。可惜！到目前为止，我只能通过书本了解你的语言。对你来说，我的朋友，我看起来我知道说话。

‘But, Count,’ I said, ‘You know and speak English thoroughly!’ He bowed gravely.
“但是，伯爵，”我说，“你英语很流利，而且英语说得很流利！”他严肃地鞠了一躬。

‘I thank you, my friend, for your all too-flattering estimate, but yet I fear that I am but a little way on the road I would travel. True, I know the grammar and the words, but yet I know not how to speak them.’
“我感谢你，我的朋友，你的评价太恭维了，但我担心我离我要走的路还差一点点。”确实，我知道语法和单词，但我不知道如何说。

‘Indeed,’ I said, ‘You speak excellently.’
“确实，”我说，“你说得很好。”

‘Not so,’ he answered. ‘Well, I know that, did I move and speak in your London, none there are who would not know me for a stranger. That is not enough for me. Here I am noble. I am a Boyar. The common people know me, and I am master. But a stranger in a strange land, he is no one. Men know him not, and to know not is to care not for. I am content if I am like the rest, so that no man stops if he sees me, or pauses in his speaking if he hears my words, ‘Ha, ha! A stranger!’ I have been so long master that I would be master still, or at least that none other should be master of me. You come to me not alone as agent of my friend Peter Hawkins, of Exeter, to tell me all about my new estate in London. You shall, I trust, rest here with me a while, so that by our talking I may learn the English intonation. And I would that you tell me when I make error, even of the smallest, in my speaking. I am sorry that I had to be away so long today, but you will, I know forgive one who has so many important affairs in hand.’
“不是这样，”他回答道。 “嗯，我知道，如果我在你们的伦敦走动和说话，没有人会不认识我这个陌生人。这对我来说还不够。在这里我是高贵的。我是博雅尔人。老百姓都知道我，我就是主人。但他是异国他乡的陌生人，他不是一个人。人们不认识他，不认识他就是不关心他。如果我能像其他人一样，我就满足了，这样就没有人看到我就停下来，或者听到我的话就停顿，‘哈，哈！一个陌生人！”我当主人这么久了，我仍然会是主人，或者至少没有其他人应该成为我的主人。你不仅是作为我来自埃克塞特的朋友彼得·霍金斯的代理人来找我，告诉我有关我在伦敦的新房产的一切。我相信你会在这里陪我休息一会儿，这样我就可以通过我们的交谈来学习英语语调。当我在说话中犯下错误时，即使是最小的错误，我也希望你能告诉我。我很抱歉今天我不得不离开这么久，但我知道你会原谅我手头有这么多重要事务的。

Of course I said all I could about being willing, and asked if I might come into that room when I chose. He answered, ‘Yes, certainly,’ and added.
当然，我尽我所能表示愿意，并询问我是否可以在我选择的时候进入那个房间。他回答说：“是的，当然，”并补充道。

‘You may go anywhere you wish in the castle, except where the doors are locked, where of course you will not wish to go. There is reason that all things are as they are, and did you see with my eyes and know with my knowledge, you would perhaps better understand.’ I said I was sure of this, and then he went on.
“你可以去城堡里任何你想去的地方，除了门锁着的地方，当然你不会想去的地方。一切事物都是有道理的，如果你用我的眼睛看到，用我的知识知道，你也许会更好地理解。”我说我确信这一点，然后他继续说。

‘We are in Transylvania, and Transylvania is not England. Our ways are not your ways, and there shall be to you many strange things. Nay, from what you have told me of your experiences already, you know something of what strange things there may be.’
“我们在特兰西瓦尼亚，但特兰西瓦尼亚不是英格兰。我们的道路不同于你们的道路，你们将会遇到许多奇怪的事情。不，从你已经告诉我的经历来看，你知道可能会有什么奇怪的事情。

This led to much conversation, and as it was evident that he wanted to talk, if only for talking’s sake, I asked him many questions regarding things that had already happened to me or come within my notice. Sometimes he sheered off the subject, or turned the conversation by pretending not to understand, but generally he answered all I asked most frankly. Then as time went on, and I had got somewhat bolder, I asked him of some of the strange things of the preceding night, as for instance, why the coachman went to the places where he had seen the blue flames. He then explained to me that it was commonly believed that on a certain night of the year, last night, in fact, when all evil spirits are supposed to have unchecked sway, a blue flame is seen over any place where treasure has been concealed.
这导致了很多谈话，而且很明显他想说话，即使只是为了说话，我问了他很多关于已经发生在我身上或我注意到的事情的问题。有时他会岔开话题，或者假装听不懂而转移话题，但一般来说，他都会坦诚地回答我的所有问题。随着时间的推移，我的胆子也大了一些，我问他前一天晚上发生的一些奇怪的事情，比如车夫为什么要去他看到蓝色火焰的地方。然后他向我解释说，人们普遍认为，在一年中的某个晚上，事实上是昨晚，当所有邪灵都应该不受控制地肆虐时，任何藏有宝藏的地方都会看到蓝色的火焰。

‘That treasure has been hidden,’ he went on, ‘in the region through which you came last night, there can be but little doubt. For it was the ground fought over for centuries by the Wallachian, the Saxon, and the Turk. Why, there is hardly a foot of soil in all this region that has not been enriched by the blood of men, patriots or invaders. In the old days there were stirring times, when the Austrian and the Hungarian came up in hordes, and the patriots went out to meet them, men and women, the aged and the children too, and waited their coming on the rocks above the passes, that they might sweep destruction on them with their artificial avalanches. When the invader was triumphant he found but little, for whatever there was had been sheltered in the friendly soil.’
“那件宝藏已经被藏起来了，”他继续说道，“毫无疑问，就在你昨晚经过的地方。”因为这是瓦拉几亚人、撒克逊人和土耳其人几个世纪以来争夺的土地。为什么，整个地区几乎没有一英尺的土地没有被人类、爱国者或侵略者的鲜血所滋润。过去，当奥地利人和匈牙利人成群结队地到来时，爱国者们就出去迎接他们，男人和女人，老人和孩子也一样，在山口上方的岩石上等待他们的到来，他们可能会用人为的雪崩给他们带来毁灭。当入侵者取得胜利时，他发现的东西很少，因为无论有什么东西都被庇护在友好的土壤中。

‘But how,’ said I, ‘can it have remained so long undiscovered, when there is a sure index to it if men will but take the trouble to look? ‘The Count smiled, and as his lips ran back over his gums, the long, sharp, canine teeth showed out strangely. He answered.
“但是，”我说，“既然有明确的索引，只要人们愿意费心去寻找，它怎么可能这么长时间未被发现呢？”伯爵微笑着，当他的嘴唇向后滑过牙龈时，长而锋利的犬齿奇怪地露出来。他回答道。

‘Because your peasant is at heart a coward and a fool! Those flames only appear on one night, and on that night no man of this land will, if he can help it, stir without his doors. And, dear sir, even if he did he would not know what to do. Why, even the peasant that you tell me of who marked the place of the flame would not know where to look in daylight even for his own work. Even you would not, I dare be sworn, be able to find these places again?’
‘因为你们的农民本质上是个胆小鬼和傻瓜！这些火焰只会在一个晚上出现，而在那个晚上，这片土地上的任何人，如果可以的话，都不会在门外乱动。而且，亲爱的先生，即使他这样做了，他也不知道该怎么办。为什么，即使是你告诉我的标记火焰地点的农民也不知道在白天去哪里寻找他自己的工作。我敢发誓，即使是你也无法再次找到这些地方吗？

‘There you are right,’ I said. ‘I know no more than the dead where even to look for them.’ Then we drifted into other matters.
“你说得对，”我说。 “我除了死者之外一无所知，甚至不知道去哪里寻找他们。”然后我们就转向其他事情了。

‘Come,’ he said at last, ‘tell me of London and of the house which you have procured for me.’ With an apology for my remissness, I went into my own room to get the papers from my bag. Whilst I was placing them in order I heard a rattling of china and silver in the next room, and as I passed through, noticed that the table had been cleared and the lamp lit, for it was by this time deep into the dark. The lamps were also lit in the study or library, and I found the Count lying on the sofa, reading, of all things in the world, an English Bradshaw’s Guide. When I came in he cleared the books and papers from the table, and with him I went into plans and deeds and figures of all sorts. He was interested in everything, and asked me a myriad questions about the place and its surroundings. He clearly had studied beforehand all he could get on the subject of the neighbourhood, for he evidently at the end knew very much more than I did. When I remarked this, he answered.
“来吧，”他最后说道，“告诉我伦敦的情况，以及你为我购买的房子的情况。”带着对我的疏忽的歉意，我走进自己的房间，从包里取出文件。当我把它们整理好时，我听到隔壁房间里有瓷器和银器的嘎嘎声，当我经过时，注意到桌子已经被清理干净，灯也亮着，因为此时已经陷入了黑暗之中。书房或图书馆里的灯也亮着，我发现伯爵躺在沙发上，正在阅读一本英国《布拉德肖指南》。当我进来时，他清理了桌子上的书籍和文件，我和他一起讨论了各种计划、行动和数据。他对一切都很感兴趣，问了我很多关于这个地方及其周围环境的问题。显然，他事先已经研究过所有关于这个街区的知识，因为他最终显然比我了解得更多。当我这么说时，他回答了。

‘Well, but, my friend, is it not needful that I should? When I go there I shall be all alone, and my friend Harker Jonathan, nay, pardon me. I fall into my country’s habit of putting your patronymic first, my friend Jonathan Harker will not be by my side to correct and aid me. He will be in Exeter, miles away, probably working at papers of the law with my other friend, Peter Hawkins. So!’
“好吧，但是，我的朋友，我没有必要这么做吗？当我去那里时，我将独自一人，还有我的朋友哈克乔纳森，不，请原谅我。我陷入了我的国家把你的父名放在第一位的习惯，我的朋友乔纳森·哈克不会在我身边纠正和帮助我。他将在数英里之外的埃克塞特，可能与我的另一位朋友彼得·霍金斯一起处理法律文件。所以！'

We went thoroughly into the business of the purchase of the estate at Purfleet. When I had told him the facts and got his signature to the necessary papers, and had written a letter with them ready to post to Mr. Hawkins, he began to ask me how I had come across so suitable a place. I read to him the notes which I had made at the time, and which I inscribe here.
我们深入探讨了购买珀弗利特庄园的事宜。当我告诉他事实并让他在必要的文件上签名，并写了一封信准备寄给霍金斯先生时，他开始问我是如何找到如此合适的地方的。我向他读了我当时所做的笔记，并将其写在这里。

‘At Purfleet, on a byroad, I came across just such a place as seemed to be required, and where was displayed a dilapidated notice that the place was for sale. It was surrounded by a high wall, of ancient structure, built of heavy stones, and has not been repaired for a large number of years. The closed gates are of heavy old oak and iron, all eaten with rust.
“在珀弗利特的一条小路上，我偶然发现了一个似乎需要的地方，那里贴着一张破旧的告示，说这个地方正在出售。它周围有高墙，结构古老，用重石砌成，已经多年没有修缮了。紧闭的大门是用厚重的老橡木和铁制成的，全都生锈了。

‘The estate is called Carfax, no doubt a corruption of the old Quatre Face, as the house is four sided, agreeing with the cardinal points of the compass. It contains in all some twenty acres, quite surrounded by the solid stone wall above mentioned. There are many trees on it, which make it in places gloomy, and there is a deep, dark-looking pond or small lake, evidently fed by some springs, as the water is clear and flows away in a fair-sized stream. The house is very large and of all periods back, I should say, to mediaeval times, for one part is of stone immensely thick, with only a few windows high up and heavily barred with iron. It looks like part of a keep, and is close to an old chapel or church. I could not enter it, as I had not the key of the door leading to it from the house, but I have taken with my Kodak views of it from various points. The house had been added to, but in a very straggling way, and I can only guess at the amount of ground it covers, which must be very great. There are but few houses close at hand, one being a very large house only recently added to and formed into a private lunatic asylum. It is not, however, visible from the grounds.’
“这座庄园被称为卡法克斯（Carfax），毫无疑问是旧四面体的变体，因为房子是四个面的，与指南针的基点一致。它占地约二十英亩，周围环绕着上面提到的坚固石墙。上面树木繁茂，有些地方阴森森的，还有一个又深又暗的池塘或小湖，显然是有泉水浇灌的，水清澈见底，汇成一条大小不一的溪流流走。这所房子很大，我应该说，可以追溯到中世纪，因为其中一部分是用非常厚的石头砌成的，只有几扇高高的窗户，并用铁栅栏严密锁着。它看起来像是城堡的一部分，靠近一座古老的小教堂或教堂。我无法进入它，因为我没有从房子通往它的门的钥匙，但我从不同的角度以柯达的视角观察了它。房子已经被加起来了，但是加起来的方式非常分散，我只能猜测它覆盖的地面面积，这一定是非常大的。附近的房子很少，其中一栋很大，最近才加建，变成了私人疯人院。然而，从地面上看不到它。

When I had finished, he said, ‘I am glad that it is old and big. I myself am of an old family, and to live in a new house would kill me. A house cannot be made habitable in a day, and after all, how few days go to make up a century. I rejoice also that there is a chapel of old times. We Transylvanian nobles love not to think that our bones may lie amongst the common dead. I seek not gaiety nor mirth, not the bright voluptuousness of much sunshine and sparkling waters which please the young and gay. I am no longer young, and my heart, through weary years of mourning over the dead, is attuned to mirth. Moreover, the walls of my castle are broken. The shadows are many, and the wind breathes cold through the broken battlements and casements. I love the shade and the shadow, and would be alone with my thoughts when I may.’ Somehow his words and his look did not seem to accord, or else it was that his cast of face made his smile look malignant and saturnine.
当我完成后，他说：‘我很高兴它又旧又大。我自己是一个古老的家庭，住在新房子里会杀了我。一座房子不可能一天之内就能建成居住，毕竟，一个世纪又需要多少天的时间。我还很高兴有一座古老的教堂。我们特兰西瓦尼亚贵族不喜欢认为我们的骨头可能躺在普通的死者中。我追求的不是欢乐，也不是快乐，不是让年轻人和快乐的人喜欢的阳光明媚和波光粼粼的海水。我已不再年轻，经过多年对死者的哀悼，我的心已变得欢快起来。而且，我的城堡的城墙已经破损。阴影很多，风吹过破碎的城垛和窗扉，散发着寒冷。我喜欢阴影和阴影，只要有机会，我就会独自思考。”不知怎的，他的话和他的表情似乎不太相符，或者是他的表情让他的笑容显得恶毒而阴郁。

Presently, with an excuse, he left me, asking me to pull my papers together. He was some little time away, and I began to look at some of the books around me. One was an atlas, which I found opened naturally to England, as if that map had been much used. On looking at it I found in certain places little rings marked, and on examining these I noticed that one was near London on the east side, manifestly where his new estate was situated. The other two were Exeter, and Whitby on the Yorkshire coast.
不久，他借口借口离开了我，让我把文件整理好。他离开了一会儿，我开始看周围的一些书。其中一本是一本地图集，我发现它自然而然地就指向了英格兰，就好像那张地图被经常使用过一样。在观察它时，我发现在某些地方有一些小圆环标记，在检查这些圆环时，我注意到其中一个位于伦敦东侧附近，显然是他的新庄园所在的地方。另外两个是埃克塞特和约克郡海岸的惠特比。

It was the better part of an hour when the Count returned. ‘Aha!’ he said. ‘Still at your books? Good! But you must not work always. Come! I am informed that your supper is ready.’ He took my arm, and we went into the next room, where I found an excellent supper ready on the table. The Count again excused himself, as he had dined out on his being away from home. But he sat as on the previous night, and chatted whilst I ate. After supper I smoked, as on the last evening, and the Count stayed with me, chatting and asking questions on every conceivable subject, hour after hour. I felt that it was getting very late indeed, but I did not say anything, for I felt under obligation to meet my host’s wishes in every way. I was not sleepy, as the long sleep yesterday had fortified me, but I could not help experiencing that chill which comes over one at the coming of the dawn, which is like, in its way, the turn of the tide. They say that people who are near death die generally at the change to dawn or at the turn of the tide. Anyone who has when tired, and tied as it were to his post, experienced this change in the atmosphere can well believe it. All at once we heard the crow of the cock coming up with preternatural shrillness through the clear morning air.
伯爵回来的时候已经是一个多小时了。 “啊哈！”他说。 ‘还在看书吗？好的！但你不能总是工作。来！我听说你的晚餐已经准备好了。”他拉着我的手臂，我们走进隔壁房间，我发现桌子上已经准备好了一顿美味的晚餐。伯爵再次告辞，因为他外出吃饭了。但他还是像前一天晚上一样坐着，在我吃饭的时候聊天。晚饭后，我像昨晚一样抽烟，伯爵陪着我，一个小时又一个小时地聊天，就每一个可以想象的话题提出问题。我觉得时间确实很晚了，但我什么也没说，因为我觉得有义务尽一切努力满足主人的愿望。我并不困，因为昨天的长眠使我精神焕发，但我忍不住体验到黎明来临之际的那种寒意，就其方式而言，这就像潮水的转变。他们说，濒临死亡的人一般会在黎明或潮水交替时死去。任何一个在疲倦和被束缚在岗位上时经历过这种气氛变化的人都可以相信这一点。突然，我们听到公鸡的啼鸣声从清晨清澈的空气中传来，声音异常尖锐。

Count Dracula, jumping to his feet, said, ‘Why there is the morning again! How remiss I am to let you stay up so long. You must make your conversation regarding my dear new country of England less interesting, so that I may not forget how time flies by us,’ and with a courtly bow, he quickly left me.
德古拉伯爵跳了起来，说道：“怎么又是早晨了！”我真是太失职了，让你熬夜这么久。你必须让关于我亲爱的新国家英格兰的谈话变得不那么有趣，这样我就不会忘记我们的时间是如何过得。”他礼貌地鞠了一躬，很快就离开了我。

I went into my room and drew the curtains, but there was little to notice. My window opened into the courtyard, all I could see was the warm grey of quickening sky. So I pulled the curtains again, and have written of this day.
我走进自己的房间，拉上窗帘，但没有什么可注意到的。我的窗户通向庭院，我只能看到温暖的灰色天空。于是我再次拉上窗帘，写下了这一天。

8 May.—I began to fear as I wrote in this book that I was getting too diffuse. But now I am glad that I went into detail from the first, for there is something so strange about this place and all in it that I cannot but feel uneasy. I wish I were safe out of it, or that I had never come. It may be that this strange night existence is telling on me, but would that that were all! If there were any one to talk to I could bear it, but there is no one. I have only the Count to speak with, and he—I fear I am myself the only living soul within the place. Let me be prosaic so far as facts can be. It will help me to bear up, and imagination must not run riot with me. If it does I am lost. Let me say at once how I stand, or seem to.
5 月 8 日——当我在本书中写道时，我开始担心自己变得过于分散。但现在我很高兴我从一开始就详细介绍了，因为这个地方和其中的一切都很奇怪，我不能不感到不安。我希望我能安全地离开这里，或者我从来没有来过。也许这个奇怪的夜晚存在正在向我诉说，但仅此而已！如果有人可以说话我还可以忍受，但没有人。我只有伯爵可以说话，而他——我担心我自己就是这个地方唯一活着的灵魂。让我就事实而言平淡无奇。它将帮助我忍受，而我的想象力绝不能肆意妄为。如果是的话我就迷路了。让我立即说出我的立场或看起来如何。

I only slept a few hours when I went to bed, and feeling that I could not sleep any more, got up. I had hung my shaving glass by the window, and was just beginning to shave. Suddenly I felt a hand on my shoulder, and heard the Count’s voice saying to me, ‘Good morning.’ I started, for it amazed me that I had not seen him, since the reflection of the glass covered the whole room behind me. In starting I had cut myself slightly, but did not notice it at the moment. Having answered the Count’s salutation, I turned to the glass again to see how I had been mistaken. This time there could be no error, for the man was close to me, and I could see him over my shoulder. But there was no reflection of him in the mirror! The whole room behind me was displayed, but there was no sign of a man in it, except myself.
上床睡觉时只睡了几个小时，就觉得睡不着了，就起床了。我把剃须镜挂在窗边，正开始刮胡子。突然，我感到有一只手放在我的肩膀上，听到伯爵的声音对我说：“早上好。”我吃了一惊，因为我很惊讶我没有看到他，因为玻璃的反射覆盖了我身后的整个房间。一开始我就轻微割伤了自己，但当时没有注意到。回答完伯爵的问候后，我再次转向玻璃，想看看我是怎么弄错的。这次不会有任何错误，因为那个人离我很近，我可以从肩膀上看到他。可是镜子里却没有看到他的影子！我身后的整个房间都显示出来了，但里面除了我自己之外没有一个人的迹象。

This was startling, and coming on the top of so many strange things, was beginning to increase that vague feeling of uneasiness which I always have when the Count is near. But at the instant I saw that the cut had bled a little, and the blood was trickling over my chin. I laid down the razor, turning as I did so half round to look for some sticking plaster. When the Count saw my face, his eyes blazed with a sort of demoniac fury, and he suddenly made a grab at my throat. I drew away and his hand touched the string of beads which held the crucifix. It made an instant change in him, for the fury passed so quickly that I could hardly believe that it was ever there.
这真是令人吃惊，而且除了这么多奇怪的事情之外，我开始增加那种模糊的不安感，每当伯爵靠近时我总是有这种感觉。但就在我看到伤口已经流了一点血的瞬间，血顺着我的下巴流了下来。我放下剃须刀，转了半圈寻找橡皮膏。当伯爵看到我的脸时，他的眼睛里闪烁着一种恶魔般的愤怒，他突然抓住了我的喉咙。我抽开身子，他的手触到了那串固定十字架的珠子。这让他立刻发生了变化，因为愤怒消逝得如此之快，我简直不敢相信它曾经存在过。

‘Take care,’ he said, ‘take care how you cut yourself. It is more dangerous that you think in this country.’ Then seizing the shaving glass, he went on, ‘And this is the wretched thing that has done the mischief. It is a foul bauble of man’s vanity. Away with it!’ And opening the window with one wrench of his terrible hand, he flung out the glass, which was shattered into a thousand pieces on the stones of the courtyard far below. Then he withdrew without a word. It is very annoying, for I do not see how I am to shave, unless in my watch-case or the bottom of the shaving pot, which is fortunately of metal.
“小心点，”他说，“小心你割伤了自己。”在这个国家，你的想法更危险。”然后他抓起剃须镜，继续说道，“这就是造成恶果的可恶的东西。这是人类虚荣心的肮脏玩意。把它拿走！”他用那只可怕的手一扳手打开了窗户，把玻璃扔了出去，玻璃在下面庭院的石头上摔成了一千块碎片。然后他一言不发地退了出去。这很烦人，因为我不知道如何剃须，除非在我的表壳或剃须壶的底部，幸运的是，剃须壶的底部是金属的。

When I went into the dining room, breakfast was prepared, but I could not find the Count anywhere. So I breakfasted alone. It is strange that as yet I have not seen the Count eat or drink. He must be a very peculiar man! After breakfast I did a little exploring in the castle. I went out on the stairs, and found a room looking towards the South.
当我走进餐厅时，早餐已经准备好了，但我到处都找不到伯爵。于是我一个人吃早餐。奇怪的是，我至今还没有看到伯爵吃喝。他一定是一个很奇特的人！早餐后，我在城堡里进行了一些探索。我走上楼梯，找到一间朝南的房间。

The view was magnificent, and from where I stood there was every opportunity of seeing it. The castle is on the very edge of a terrific precipice. A stone falling from the window would fall a thousand feet without touching anything! As far as the eye can reach is a sea of green tree tops, with occasionally a deep rift where there is a chasm. Here and there are silver threads where the rivers wind in deep gorges through the forests.
景色非常壮丽，从我站的地方，就有机会看到它。这座城堡位于一个可怕的悬崖的边缘。一块从窗户掉下来的石头会掉到一千英尺高而不会碰到任何东西！放眼望去，是一片绿色的树梢海洋，偶尔有一道深深的裂痕，那里有一道鸿沟。河流蜿蜒穿过森林，在深谷中随处可见银线。

But I am not in heart to describe beauty, for when I had seen the view I explored further. Doors, doors, doors everywhere, and all locked and bolted. In no place save from the windows in the castle walls is there an available exit. The castle is a veritable prison, and I am a prisoner!
但我无意去描述美，因为当我看到风景时我会进一步探索。门，门，到处都是门，而且都锁着。除了城堡墙壁上的窗户之外，没有任何地方可以找到出口。城堡是名副其实的监狱，而我就是一个囚犯！

Chapter 3
第3章

Jonathan Harker’s Journal Continued
乔纳森·哈克的日记续

When I found that I was a prisoner a sort of wild feeling came over me. I rushed up and down the stairs, trying every door and peering out of every window I could find, but after a little the conviction of my helplessness overpowered all other feelings. When I look back after a few hours I think I must have been mad for the time, for I behaved much as a rat does in a trap. When, however, the conviction had come to me that I was helpless I sat down quietly, as quietly as I have ever done anything in my life, and began to think over what was best to be done. I am thinking still, and as yet have come to no definite conclusion. Of one thing only am I certain. That it is no use making my ideas known to the Count. He knows well that I am imprisoned, and as he has done it himself, and has doubtless his own motives for it, he would only deceive me if I trusted him fully with the facts. So far as I can see, my only plan will be to keep my knowledge and my fears to myself, and my eyes open. I am, I know, either being deceived, like a baby, by my own fears, or else I am in desperate straits, and if the latter be so, I need, and shall need, all my brains to get through.
当我发现自己是一名囚犯时，一种狂野的感觉袭上心头。我在楼梯上冲上冲下，尝试了每一扇门，从每一扇我能找到的窗户往外看，但过了一会儿，我对无助的信念压倒了所有其他感觉。几个小时后，当我回想起来时，我想我当时一定是生气了，因为我的表现就像一只被困在陷阱里的老鼠。然而，当我确信自己无能为力时，我安静地坐下来，就像我一生中做过的任何事情一样安静，并开始思考最好做什么。我还在思考，目前还没有得出明确的结论。我只确定一件事。让伯爵知道我的想法是没有用的。他很清楚我被监禁了，而且他自己也这么做了，而且无疑有他自己的动机，所以只有当我完全相信他的事实时，他才会欺骗我。据我所知，我唯一的计划就是把我的知识和恐惧留给自己，并睁大眼睛。我知道，我要么像个婴儿一样被自己的恐惧所欺骗，要么陷入绝望的困境，如果是后者，我需要并且将需要我所有的大脑来渡过难关。

I had hardly come to this conclusion when I heard the great door below shut, and knew that the Count had returned. He did not come at once into the library, so I went cautiously to my own room and found him making the bed. This was odd, but only confirmed what I had all along thought, that there are no servants in the house. When later I saw him through the chink of the hinges of the door laying the table in the dining room, I was assured of it. For if he does himself all these menial offices, surely it is proof that there is no one else in the castle, it must have been the Count himself who was the driver of the coach that brought me here. This is a terrible thought, for if so, what does it mean that he could control the wolves, as he did, by only holding up his hand for silence? How was it that all the people at Bistritz and on the coach had some terrible fear for me? What meant the giving of the crucifix, of the garlic, of the wild rose, of the mountain ash?
当我听到下面大门关上的声音时，我刚刚得出这个结论，就知道伯爵回来了。他没有立即进入图书馆，所以我小心翼翼地回到自己的房间，发现他正在整理床铺。这很奇怪，但也证实了我一直以来的想法：家里没有仆人。后来，当我透过门铰链的缝隙看到他正在餐厅里摆桌子时，我就确信了这一点。因为如果他亲自做所有这些卑微的工作，肯定可以证明城堡里没有其他人，一定是伯爵本人，他是带我来这里的马车司机。这是一个可怕的想法，如果是这样，那他仅仅举手示意就可以控制狼群，这意味着什么呢？为什么比斯特里茨和车上的所有人都对我怀有某种可怕的恐惧？赠送十字架、大蒜、野玫瑰、山梣木意味着什么？

Bless that good, good woman who hung the crucifix round my neck! For it is a comfort and a strength to me whenever I touch it. It is odd that a thing which I have been taught to regard with disfavour and as idolatrous should in a time of loneliness and trouble be of help. Is it that there is something in the essence of the thing itself, or that it is a medium, a tangible help, in conveying memories of sympathy and comfort? Some time, if it may be, I must examine this matter and try to make up my mind about it. In the meantime I must find out all I can about Count Dracula, as it may help me to understand. Tonight he may talk of himself, if I turn the conversation that way. I must be very careful, however, not to awake his suspicion.
保佑那个把十字架挂在我脖子上的好女人！因为每当我触摸它时，它对我来说都是一种安慰和力量。奇怪的是，我被教导不喜欢和视为偶像崇拜的东西在孤独和麻烦的时候却会有所帮助。是事物本身的本质有某种东西，还是它是一种媒介，一种有形的帮助，可以传递同情和安慰的记忆？如果可能的话，有一天我必须审视一下这件事，并尝试下定决心。与此同时，我必须尽我所能找出有关德古拉伯爵的一切，因为这可能有助于我理解。今晚如果我把话题转向这个方向的话，他可能会谈论自己。不过，我必须非常小心，不要引起他的怀疑。

Midnight.—I have had a long talk with the Count. I asked him a few questions on Transylvania history, and he warmed up to the subject wonderfully. In his speaking of things and people, and especially of battles, he spoke as if he had been present at them all. This he afterwards explained by saying that to a Boyar the pride of his house and name is his own pride, that their glory is his glory, that their fate is his fate. Whenever he spoke of his house he always said ‘we’, and spoke almost in the plural, like a king speaking. I wish I could put down all he said exactly as he said it, for to me it was most fascinating. It seemed to have in it a whole history of the country. He grew excited as he spoke, and walked about the room pulling his great white moustache and grasping anything on which he laid his hands as though he would crush it by main strength. One thing he said which I shall put down as nearly as I can, for it tells in its way the story of his race.
午夜——我和伯爵进行了一次长谈。我问了他一些有关特兰西瓦尼亚历史的问题，他对这个话题非常感兴趣。当他谈论事物和人，尤其是战争时，他的讲话就好像他亲历了这一切。他后来解释说，对于波雅尔来说，他的家族和名字的骄傲就是他自己的骄傲，他们的荣耀就是他的荣耀，他们的命运就是他的命运。每当他谈到他的房子时，他总是说“我们”，并且几乎用复数说话，就像国王说话一样。我希望我能把他说的一切都原原本本地写下来，因为对我来说，这是最令人着迷的。它似乎蕴藏着这个国家的全部历史。他说话的时候变得很兴奋，在房间里走来走去，拉着他的大白胡子，抓住他手上的任何东西，仿佛他会用最大的力量把它压碎。他说过的一件事我会尽可能地记下来，因为它以它的方式讲述了他的种族的故事。

‘We Szekelys have a right to be proud, for in our veins flows the blood of many brave races who fought as the lion fights, for lordship. Here, in the whirlpool of European races, the Ugric tribe bore down from Iceland the fighting spirit which Thor and Wodin gave them, which their Berserkers displayed to such fell intent on the seaboards of Europe, aye, and of Asia and Africa too, till the peoples thought that the werewolves themselves had come. Here, too, when they came, they found the Huns, whose warlike fury had swept the earth like a living flame, till the dying peoples held that in their veins ran the blood of those old witches, who, expelled from Scythia had mated with the devils in the desert. Fools, fools! What devil or what witch was ever so great as Attila, whose blood is in these veins?’ He held up his arms. ‘Is it a wonder that we were a conquering race, that we were proud, that when the Magyar, the Lombard, the Avar, the Bulgar, or the Turk poured his thousands on our frontiers, we drove them back? Is it strange that when Arpad and his legions swept through the Hungarian fatherland he found us here when he reached the frontier, that the Honfoglalas was completed there? And when the Hungarian flood swept eastward, the Szekelys were claimed as kindred by the victorious Magyars, and to us for centuries was trusted the guarding of the frontier of Turkeyland. Aye, and more than that, endless duty of the frontier guard, for as the Turks say, ‘water sleeps, and the enemy is sleepless.’ Who more gladly than we throughout the Four Nations received the ‘bloody sword,’ or at its warlike call flocked quicker to the standard of the King? When was redeemed that great shame of my nation, the shame of Cassova, when the flags of the Wallach and the Magyar went down beneath the Crescent? Who was it but one of my own race who as Voivode crossed the Danube and beat the Turk on his own ground? This was a Dracula indeed! Woe was it that his own unworthy brother, when he had fallen, sold his people to the Turk and brought the shame of slavery on them! Was it not this Dracula, indeed, who inspired that other of his race who in a later age again and again brought his forces over the great river into Turkeyland, who, when he was beaten back, came again, and again, though he had to come alone from the bloody field where his troops were being slaughtered, since he knew that he alone could ultimately triumph! They said that he thought only of himself. Bah! What good are peasants without a leader? Where ends the war without a brain and heart to conduct it? Again, when, after the battle of Mohacs, we threw off the Hungarian yoke, we of the Dracula blood were amongst their leaders, for our spirit would not brook that we were not free. Ah, young sir, the Szekelys, and the Dracula as their heart’s blood, their brains, and their swords, can boast a record that mushroom growths like the Hapsburgs and the Romanoffs can never reach. The warlike days are over. Blood is too precious a thing in these days of dishonourable peace, and the glories of the great races are as a tale that is told.’
“我们塞克利人有权利感到自豪，因为我们的血管里流淌着许多勇敢种族的血液，他们像狮子一样为领主而战。在这里，在欧洲种族的漩涡中，乌戈尔部落从冰岛带来了托尔和沃丁赋予他们的战斗精神，他们的狂战士在欧洲的沿海地区，是的，以及亚洲和非洲的海岸上也表现出了这种精神，直到人们以为狼人自己来了。当他们来到这里时，他们也发现了匈奴人，他们好战的愤怒像活生生的火焰一样席卷了大地，直到垂死的人民认为他们的血管里流淌着那些被驱逐出斯基泰的老巫婆的血液。沙漠中的恶魔。傻瓜，傻瓜！哪个魔鬼或女巫像阿提拉一样伟大，这些血管里流淌着她的血液？”他举起双臂。 ‘我们是一个征服的种族，我们感到自豪，当马扎尔人、伦巴第人、阿瓦尔人、保加利亚人或土耳其人将数千人涌入我们的边境时，我们将他们赶了回来，这难道是一个奇迹吗？当阿帕德和他的军团横扫匈牙利祖国时，当他到达边境时，他发现我们在这里，而洪弗格拉拉斯就是在那里完成的，这难道很奇怪吗？当匈牙利洪水向东席卷时，塞克利人被胜利的马扎尔人视为亲戚，几个世纪以来，我们一直信任他们守卫土耳其边境。是的，更重要的是，边防卫队的无尽职责，因为正如土耳其人所说，“水在睡觉，而敌人是不眠的。”谁比我们整个四个国家更高兴地接受了“血腥的剑”，或者在它的好战的召唤更快地涌向国王的旗帜？ 当瓦拉赫人和马扎尔人的旗帜降在新月之下时，我的国家的巨大耻辱，即卡索瓦的耻辱，什么时候才能得到救赎？除了我自己的种族之外，还有谁作为总督跨越多瑙河并在自己的土地上击败了土耳其人？这确实是德古拉！可悲的是，他自己不配的兄弟在倒台后，将自己的人民卖给了土耳其人，给他们带来了奴隶制的耻辱！难道不是这个德古拉，确实，激励了他的另一个种族，在后来的时代一次又一次地将他的军队带过大河进入土耳其土地，当他被击退时，他一次又一次地回来，尽管他已经独自一人从他的部队被屠杀的血腥战场上走出来，因为他知道只有他自己才能最终取得胜利！他们说他只考虑自己。呸!没有领导的农民有什么好处？没有大脑和心灵来进行的战争到哪里结束？再一次，当我们在莫哈奇战役之后摆脱了匈牙利的枷锁时，我们德古拉血统就成为了他们的领袖，因为我们的精神不允许我们不自由。啊，年轻的先生，塞克利家族和德古拉家族作为他们的心脏血液、他们的大脑和他们的剑，可以夸耀的记录是哈布斯堡家族和罗曼诺夫家族等蘑菇生长永远无法达到的。好战的日子结束了。在当今不光彩的和平时代，鲜血显得太珍贵了，而伟大种族的荣耀就像一个被讲述的故事。’

It was by this time close on morning, and we went to bed. (Mem., this diary seems horribly like the beginning of the ‘Arabian Nights,’ for everything has to break off at cockcrow, or like the ghost of Hamlet’s father.)
此时已接近早上了，我们就去睡觉了。 （想起来，这本日记看起来可怕地像《一千零一夜》的开头，因为一切都必须在鸡鸣时停止，或者像哈姆雷特父亲的鬼魂。）

12 May.—Let me begin with facts, bare, meager facts, verified by books and figures, and of which there can be no doubt. I must not confuse them with experiences which will have to rest on my own observation, or my memory of them. Last evening when the Count came from his room he began by asking me questions on legal matters and on the doing of certain kinds of business. I had spent the day wearily over books, and, simply to keep my mind occupied, went over some of the matters I had been examined in at Lincoln’s Inn. There was a certain method in the Count’s inquiries, so I shall try to put them down in sequence. The knowledge may somehow or some time be useful to me.
5 月 12 日——让我从事实开始，赤裸裸的、微不足道的事实，经过书籍和数据证实，毫无疑问。我决不能将它们与依赖于我自己的观察或记忆的经历相混淆。昨晚，当伯爵从他的房间出来时，他开始向我询问有关法律事务和某些业务的问题。我疲倦地花了一天时间看书，只是为了让自己的头脑忙碌起来，回顾了我在林肯律师学院检查过的一些问题。伯爵的询问是有一定方法的，所以我尽量按顺序记下来。这些知识可能在某种程度上或有时对我有用。

First, he asked if a man in England might have two solicitors or more. I told him he might have a dozen if he wished, but that it would not be wise to have more than one solicitor engaged in one transaction, as only one could act at a time, and that to change would be certain to militate against his interest. He seemed thoroughly to understand, and went on to ask if there would be any practical difficulty in having one man to attend, say, to banking, and another to look after shipping, in case local help were needed in a place far from the home of the banking solicitor. I asked to explain more fully, so that I might not by any chance mislead him, so he said,
首先，他询问在英国一个人是否可以有两名或更多律师。我告诉他，如果他愿意的话，他可以有十几名律师，但是让超过一名律师从事一项交易是不明智的，因为一次只能有一名律师行事，而且改变肯定会损害他的利益。兴趣。他似乎完全理解，并接着问，如果在离家较远的地方需要当地帮助，那么让一个人去银行，另一个人去照顾航运，是否会有任何实际困难？银行律师的。我要求更详细地解释，以免误导他，所以他说：

‘I shall illustrate. Your friend and mine, Mr. Peter Hawkins, from under the shadow of your beautiful cathedral at Exeter, which is far from London, buys for me through your good self my place at London. Good! Now here let me say frankly, lest you should think it strange that I have sought the services of one so far off from London instead of some one resident there, that my motive was that no local interest might be served save my wish only, and as one of London residence might, perhaps, have some purpose of himself or friend to serve, I went thus afield to seek my agent, whose labours should be only to my interest. Now, suppose I, who have much of affairs, wish to ship goods, say, to Newcastle, or Durham, or Harwich, or Dover, might it not be that it could with more ease be done by consigning to one in these ports?’
‘我来举例说明。你的朋友和我的彼得·霍金斯先生，在远离伦敦的埃克塞特美丽大教堂的阴影下，通过你的好意为我购买了我在伦敦的住所。好的！现在，让我坦白地说，免得你们觉得奇怪，我寻求远离伦敦的人而不是当地居民的服务，我的动机是除了我的愿望之外，不会满足当地的利益，并且由于伦敦的一位住所可能有自己或朋友的某种目的需要服务，因此我远赴他乡寻找我的代理人，他的工作应该只对我有利。现在，假设我有很多事务，希望将货物运送到纽卡斯尔、达勒姆、哈里奇或多佛，那么通过托运到这些港口中的一个不是可以更轻松地完成任务吗？ '

I answered that certainly it would be most easy, but that we solicitors had a system of agency one for the other, so that local work could be done locally on instruction from any solicitor, so that the client, simply placing himself in the hands of one man, could have his wishes carried out by him without further trouble.
我回答说这当然是最容易的，但是我们律师有一个代理系统，这样本地工作就可以根据任何律师的指示在本地完成，这样客户就可以将自己交到律师的手中。一个人可以毫无麻烦地实现他的愿望。

‘But,’ said he, ‘I could be at liberty to direct myself. Is it not so?’
“但是，”他说，“我可以自由地指导自己。不是这样吗？

‘Of course,’ I replied, and ‘Such is often done by men of business, who do not like the whole of their affairs to be known by any one person.’
“当然，”我回答道，“生意人经常这么做，他们不喜欢自己的全部事情被任何人知道。”

‘Good!’ he said, and then went on to ask about the means of making consignments and the forms to be gone through, and of all sorts of difficulties which might arise, but by forethought could be guarded against. I explained all these things to him to the best of my ability, and he certainly left me under the impression that he would have made a wonderful solicitor, for there was nothing that he did not think of or foresee. For a man who was never in the country, and who did not evidently do much in the way of business, his knowledge and acumen were wonderful. When he had satisfied himself on these points of which he had spoken, and I had verified all as well as I could by the books available, he suddenly stood up and said, ‘Have you written since your first letter to our friend Mr. Peter Hawkins, or to any other?’
“好！”他说，然后继续询问托运的方式和需要办理的表格，以及可能出现但通过深思熟虑可以预防的各种困难。我尽我所能向他解释了所有这些事情，他确实给我留下了这样的印象：他会成为一名出色的律师，因为没有什么是他没有想到或预见到的。对于一个从未去过乡下、显然也没有做过多少生意的人来说，他的知识和敏锐度是惊人的。当他对自己所说的这些观点感到满意，而我也已经通过现有的书籍尽可能地核实了一切时，他突然站起来说：“自从你给我们的朋友彼得先生写第一封信以来，你写过信吗？”霍金斯，还是其他人？

It was with some bitterness in my heart that I answered that I had not, that as yet I had not seen any opportunity of sending letters to anybody.
我心里有些苦涩地回答说我还没有，到目前为止我还没有看到有机会给任何人写信。

‘Then write now, my young friend,’ he said, laying a heavy hand on my shoulder, ‘write to our friend and to any other, and say, if it will please you, that you shall stay with me until a month from now.’
“那么现在就写信吧，我年轻的朋友，”他一边说，一边把一只手重重地放在我的肩膀上，“写信给我们的朋友和其他任何人，如果你愿意的话，你可以和我一起住到一个月后。”现在。'

‘Do you wish me to stay so long?’ I asked, for my heart grew cold at the thought.
“你希望我待这么久吗？”我问，因为想到这里我的心就冷了。

‘I desire it much, nay I will take no refusal. When your master, employer, what you will, engaged that someone should come on his behalf, it was understood that my needs only were to be consulted. I have not stinted. Is it not so?’
“我非常渴望，不，我不会拒绝。”当你的主人、雇主，不管你愿意什么，聘请某人代表他时，大家都明白，我的需要只是被咨询。我并没有吝惜。不是这样吗？

What could I do but bow acceptance? It was Mr. Hawkins’ interest, not mine, and I had to think of him, not myself, and besides, while Count Dracula was speaking, there was that in his eyes and in his bearing which made me remember that I was a prisoner, and that if I wished it I could have no choice. The Count saw his victory in my bow, and his mastery in the trouble of my face, for he began at once to use them, but in his own smooth, resistless way.
除了低头接受我还能做什么？这是霍金斯先生的兴趣，不是我的，我必须想到他，而不是我自己，此外，当德古拉伯爵说话时，他的眼神和举止让我想起我是一个囚犯，如果我愿意，我别无选择。伯爵在我的弓箭中看到了他的胜利，在我脸上的麻烦中看到了他的掌握，因为他立即开始使用它们，但是以他自己的流畅，不可抗拒的方式。

‘I pray you, my good young friend, that you will not discourse of things other than business in your letters. It will doubtless please your friends to know that you are well, and that you look forward to getting home to them. Is it not so?’ As he spoke he handed me three sheets of note paper and three envelopes. They were all of the thinnest foreign post, and looking at them, then at him, and noticing his quiet smile, with the sharp, canine teeth lying over the red underlip, I understood as well as if he had spoken that I should be more careful what I wrote, for he would be able to read it. So I determined to write only formal notes now, but to write fully to Mr. Hawkins in secret, and also to Mina, for to her I could write shorthand, which would puzzle the Count, if he did see it. When I had written my two letters I sat quiet, reading a book whilst the Count wrote several notes, referring as he wrote them to some books on his table. Then he took up my two and placed them with his own, and put by his writing materials, after which, the instant the door had closed behind him, I leaned over and looked at the letters, which were face down on the table. I felt no compunction in doing so for under the circumstances I felt that I should protect myself in every way I could.
“我请求你，我年轻的好朋友，在你的信中不要谈论生意以外的事情。毫无疑问，如果你的朋友知道你很好，并且你期待着回家与他们团聚，这无疑会很高兴。是不是这样？”一边说着，他递给我三张便条纸和三个信封。他们都是最薄弱的外国哨兵，看着他们，然后看着他，注意到他安静的微笑，红色下唇上长着锋利的犬齿，我明白了，就像他说过我应该更小心我写的东西，因为他能够读懂。所以我决定现在只写正式的笔记，但要秘密地给霍金斯先生写完整的信，也给米娜写信，因为我可以给她写速记，这会让伯爵感到困惑，如果他真的看到了。当我写完两封信后，我安静地坐着看书，而伯爵写了几张笔记，在他写这些笔记时提到了他桌子上的一些书。然后他把我的两封信拿起来，和他自己的放在一起，然后把他的书写材料放在一边，之后，门在他身后关上的那一刻，我俯下身子，看着那些正面朝下放在桌子上的信。我这样做并不感到内疚，因为在这种情况下我觉得我应该尽我所能保护自己。

One of the letters was directed to Samuel F. Billington, No. 7, The Crescent, Whitby, another to Herr Leutner, Varna. The third was to Coutts & Co., London, and the fourth to Herren Klopstock & Billreuth, bankers, Buda Pesth. The second and fourth were unsealed. I was just about to look at them when I saw the door handle move. I sank back in my seat, having just had time to resume my book before the Count, holding still another letter in his hand, entered the room. He took up the letters on the table and stamped them carefully, and then turning to me, said,
其中一封是写给塞缪尔·F·比林顿 (Samuel F. Billington)，地址：惠特比新月街 7 号，另一封写给瓦尔纳 (Varna) 洛伊特纳先生 (Herr Leutner)。第三个是伦敦的 Coutts & Co.，第四个是布达佩斯的银行家 Herren Klopstock & Billreuth。第二个和第四个被解封。我刚想看他们，就看到门把手动了。我坐回座位上，刚来得及继续看书，伯爵手里还拿着另一封信就走进了房间。他拿起桌上的信，仔细地盖上印章，然后转向我说：

‘I trust you will forgive me, but I have much work to do in private this evening. You will, I hope, find all things as you wish.’ At the door he turned, and after a moment’s pause said, ‘Let me advise you, my dear young friend. Nay, let me warn you with all seriousness, that should you leave these rooms you will not by any chance go to sleep in any other part of the castle. It is old, and has many memories, and there are bad dreams for those who sleep unwisely. Be warned! Should sleep now or ever overcome you, or be like to do, then haste to your own chamber or to these rooms, for your rest will then be safe. But if you be not careful in this respect, then,’ He finished his speech in a gruesome way, for he motioned with his hands as if he were washing them. I quite understood. My only doubt was as to whether any dream could be more terrible than the unnatural, horrible net of gloom and mystery which seemed closing around me.
“我相信你会原谅我，但今晚私下里我还有很多工作要做。我希望你能找到你想要的一切。”在门口，他转过身来，停顿了一会儿，说道：“让我给你建议吧，我亲爱的年轻朋友。不，让我郑重地警告你，如果你离开这些房间，你绝不会去城堡的任何其他地方睡觉。它已经老了，有很多回忆，对于那些不明智睡眠的人来说，它会做恶梦。被警告！如果现在睡着了，或者一旦睡着了，或者想这样做，那么赶紧回到你自己的房间或这些房间，这样你的休息就会安全了。但如果你在这方面不小心，那么，”他以一种可怕的方式结束了他的演讲，因为他用手做了一个手势，就好像在洗手一样。我很明白。我唯一的疑问是，是否有任何梦境会比那张笼罩在我周围的不自然、可怕的阴郁和神秘的网更可怕。

Later.—I endorse the last words written, but this time there is no doubt in question. I shall not fear to sleep in any place where he is not. I have placed the crucifix over the head of my bed, I imagine that my rest is thus freer from dreams, and there it shall remain.
后来——我赞同最后写下的话，但这一次毫无疑问。我不会害怕睡在他不在的任何地方。我把十字架放在我的床头，我想这样我的休息就不会做梦了，而且它会留在那里。

When he left me I went to my room. After a little while, not hearing any sound, I came out and went up the stone stair to where I could look out towards the South. There was some sense of freedom in the vast expanse, inaccessible though it was to me, as compared with the narrow darkness of the courtyard. Looking out on this, I felt that I was indeed in prison, and I seemed to want a breath of fresh air, though it were of the night. I am beginning to feel this nocturnal existence tell on me. It is destroying my nerve. I start at my own shadow, and am full of all sorts of horrible imaginings. God knows that there is ground for my terrible fear in this accursed place! I looked out over the beautiful expanse, bathed in soft yellow moonlight till it was almost as light as day. In the soft light the distant hills became melted, and the shadows in the valleys and gorges of velvety blackness. The mere beauty seemed to cheer me. There was peace and comfort in every breath I drew. As I leaned from the window my eye was caught by something moving a storey below me, and somewhat to my left, where I imagined, from the order of the rooms, that the windows of the Count’s own room would look out. The window at which I stood was tall and deep, stone-mullioned, and though weatherworn, was still complete. But it was evidently many a day since the case had been there. I drew back behind the stonework, and looked carefully out.
当他离开我后，我就回自己的房间了。过了一会儿，听不到任何声响，我就出来了，登上石阶，到了可以眺望南方的地方。与庭院狭窄的黑暗相比，这片广阔的土地有一种自由的感觉，虽然对我来说这是难以接近的。看着这一幕，我感觉自己确实是在监狱里，我似乎很想呼吸新鲜空气，尽管是在夜晚。我开始感觉到这种夜间存在对我的影响。它正在摧毁我的神经。我从自己的影子开始，充满了各种可怕的想象。天知道我在这个该诅咒的地方有理由感到可怕的恐惧！我眺望美丽的广阔天地，沐浴在柔和的黄色月光下，直到几乎像白昼一样明亮。在柔和的光线下，远处的山峦融化了，山谷和峡谷中的阴影变成了天鹅绒般的黑色。光是美丽似乎就让我高兴起来。我的每一次呼吸都充满了平静和舒适。当我靠在窗户上时，我的目光被下面一层楼移动的东西吸引住了，在我的左边，从房间的顺序来看，我想象着伯爵自己房间的窗户会向外看。我所站的窗户又高又深，有石制竖框，虽然饱经风霜，但仍然完整。但显然距离这个案子的出现已经过去很多天了。我退到石雕后面，仔细地向外看。

What I saw was the Count’s head coming out from the window. I did not see the face, but I knew the man by the neck and the movement of his back and arms. In any case I could not mistake the hands which I had had some many opportunities of studying. I was at first interested and somewhat amused, for it is wonderful how small a matter will interest and amuse a man when he is a prisoner. But my very feelings changed to repulsion and terror when I saw the whole man slowly emerge from the window and begin to crawl down the castle wall over the dreadful abyss, face down with his cloak spreading out around him like great wings. At first I could not believe my eyes. I thought it was some trick of the moonlight, some weird effect of shadow, but I kept looking, and it could be no delusion. I saw the fingers and toes grasp the corners of the stones, worn clear of the mortar by the stress of years, and by thus using every projection and inequality move downwards with considerable speed, just as a lizard moves along a wall.
我看到的是伯爵的头从窗户探出。我没有看到他的脸，但我通过他的脖子以及他背部和手臂的动作认出了这个人。无论如何，我不能误会我的双手，因为我有很多学习的机会。起初我很感兴趣，而且有些好笑，因为当一个人成为囚犯时，一件小事就能引起他的兴趣并感到高兴，这真是太棒了。但当我看到整个人慢慢地从窗口出现，开始沿着城堡的墙壁爬过可怕的深渊时，我的感觉变成了厌恶和恐惧，脸朝下，他的斗篷像巨大的翅膀一样展开在他身上。起初我简直不敢相信自己的眼睛。我以为这是月光的某种把戏，是阴影的某种奇怪的效果，但我继续观察，这不可能是错觉。我看到手指和脚趾抓住石头的角，这些石头的角已经被岁月的压力磨掉了，因此利用每一个突出和不平等以相当快的速度向下移动，就像蜥蜴沿着墙壁移动一样。

What manner of man is this, or what manner of creature, is it in the semblance of man? I feel the dread of this horrible place overpowering me. I am in fear, in awful fear, and there is no escape for me. I am encompassed about with terrors that I dare not think of.
这是一个什么样的人，或者说，它是一个什么样的生物，具有人的外貌？我感到对这个可怕地方的恐惧压倒了我。我很害怕，非常害怕，我无处可逃。我被我不敢想象的恐惧所包围。

15 May.—Once more I have seen the count go out in his lizard fashion. He moved downwards in a sidelong way, some hundred feet down, and a good deal to the left. He vanished into some hole or window. When his head had disappeared, I leaned out to try and see more, but without avail. The distance was too great to allow a proper angle of sight. I knew he had left the castle now, and thought to use the opportunity to explore more than I had dared to do as yet. I went back to the room, and taking a lamp, tried all the doors. They were all locked, as I had expected, and the locks were comparatively new. But I went down the stone stairs to the hall where I had entered originally. I found I could pull back the bolts easily enough and unhook the great chains. But the door was locked, and the key was gone! That key must be in the Count’s room. I must watch should his door be unlocked, so that I may get it and escape. I went on to make a thorough examination of the various stairs and passages, and to try the doors that opened from them. One or two small rooms near the hall were open, but there was nothing to see in them except old furniture, dusty with age and moth-eaten. At last, however, I found one door at the top of the stairway which, though it seemed locked, gave a little under pressure. I tried it harder, and found that it was not really locked, but that the resistance came from the fact that the hinges had fallen somewhat, and the heavy door rested on the floor. Here was an opportunity which I might not have again, so I exerted myself, and with many efforts forced it back so that I could enter. I was now in a wing of the castle further to the right than the rooms I knew and a storey lower down. From the windows I could see that the suite of rooms lay along to the south of the castle, the windows of the end room looking out both west and south. On the latter side, as well as to the former, there was a great precipice. The castle was built on the corner of a great rock, so that on three sides it was quite impregnable, and great windows were placed here where sling, or bow, or culverin could not reach, and consequently light and comfort, impossible to a position which had to be guarded, were secured. To the west was a great valley, and then, rising far away, great jagged mountain fastnesses, rising peak on peak, the sheer rock studded with mountain ash and thorn, whose roots clung in cracks and crevices and crannies of the stone. This was evidently the portion of the castle occupied by the ladies in bygone days, for the furniture had more an air of comfort than any I had seen.
5 月 15 日——我再次看到伯爵以蜥蜴装扮出门。他侧身向下移动，向下几百英尺，向左移动了很多。他消失在某个洞或窗户里。当他的头消失后，我探出身子试图看清更多，但无济于事。距离太远，无法提供适当的视角。我知道他现在已经离开了城堡，并想利用这个机会去探索比我还敢做的更多事情。我回到房间，拿起一盏灯，尝试了所有的门。正如我所料，它们都锁着，而且锁还比较新。但我还是沿着石阶走下，来到了我原来进入的大厅。我发现我可以轻松地拉回螺栓并解开大链条。但门锁着，钥匙也不见了！那把钥匙一定在伯爵的房间里。我必须留意他的门是否打开，这样我才能拿到门并逃跑。我接着彻底检查了各个楼梯和通道，并尝试了从它们打开的门。靠近大厅的一两间小房间是敞开的，但里面除了陈旧的家具之外什么也看不到，家具都因年代久远而布满灰尘，而且都被虫蛀了。然而，最后我在楼梯的顶部发现了一扇门，虽然看起来是锁着的，但在压力下有点变形。我更用力地试了一下，发现门并没有真正锁上，而是铰链有些掉落，沉重的门搁在地板上，产生了阻力。这是一个我可能不会再有的机会，所以我使出浑身解数，千方百计把它逼回来，这样我才能进去。我现在在城堡的一侧，比我所知道的房间更靠右，而且还低一层。 从窗户里我可以看到这套房间位于城堡的南边，最后一个房间的窗户可以看到西边和南边。后边和前边一样，都有一个巨大的悬崖。城堡建在一块大岩石的拐角处，因此它的三个侧面都非常坚不可摧，这里安装了巨大的窗户，投石索、弓或长炮无法到达，因此光线和舒适度是不可能达到的位置那些必须被看守的东西，都被保护起来了。西边是一个大山谷，远处高高耸立着锯齿状的大山寨，峰峦叠嶂，陡峭的岩石上布满了山梣和荆棘，它们的树根扎在石头的缝隙里。这显然是过去女士们占据的城堡的一部分，因为家具比我见过的任何家具都更加舒适。

The windows were curtainless, and the yellow moonlight, flooding in through the diamond panes, enabled one to see even colours, whilst it softened the wealth of dust which lay over all and disguised in some measure the ravages of time and moth. My lamp seemed to be of little effect in the brilliant moonlight, but I was glad to have it with me, for there was a dread loneliness in the place which chilled my heart and made my nerves tremble. Still, it was better than living alone in the rooms which I had come to hate from the presence of the Count, and after trying a little to school my nerves, I found a soft quietude come over me. Here I am, sitting at a little oak table where in old times possibly some fair lady sat to pen, with much thought and many blushes, her ill-spelt love letter, and writing in my diary in shorthand all that has happened since I closed it last. It is the nineteenth century up-to-date with a vengeance. And yet, unless my senses deceive me, the old centuries had, and have, powers of their own which mere ‘modernity’ cannot kill.
窗户没有窗帘，黄色的月光透过钻石窗倾泻而入，使人能够看到均匀的颜色，同时它也软化了覆盖在所有东西上的大量灰尘，并在某种程度上掩盖了时间和飞蛾的破坏。我的灯在灿烂的月光下似乎没什么作用，但我很高兴有它在身边，因为那里有一种可怕的孤独，让我的心发冷，让我的神经颤抖。尽管如此，这还是比独自住在那些因为伯爵在场而讨厌的房间里要好，在尝试稍微放松一下我的神经后，我发现一种柔和的安静笼罩着我。我在这里，坐在一张小橡木桌旁，在过去，可能有位美丽的女士坐在那儿，沉思着，脸红了，写着她拼写错误的情书，在我的日记里速记着自从我关门以来所发生的一切。最后。这是最新的十九世纪。然而，除非我的感觉欺骗了我，否则旧世纪曾经并且现在也拥有它们自己的力量，而仅仅是“现代性”无法消灭它们。

Later: The morning of 16 May.—God preserve my sanity, for to this I am reduced. Safety and the assurance of safety are things of the past. Whilst I live on here there is but one thing to hope for, that I may not go mad, if, indeed, I be not mad already. If I be sane, then surely it is maddening to think that of all the foul things that lurk in this hateful place the Count is the least dreadful to me, that to him alone I can look for safety, even though this be only whilst I can serve his purpose. Great God! Merciful God, let me be calm, for out of that way lies madness indeed. I begin to get new lights on certain things which have puzzled me. Up to now I never quite knew what Shakespeare meant when he made Hamlet say, ‘My tablets! Quick, my tablets! ‘tis meet that I put it down,’ etc., For now, feeling as though my own brain were unhinged or as if the shock had come which must end in its undoing, I turn to my diary for repose. The habit of entering accurately must help to soothe me.
后来：5 月 16 日早上。——上帝保佑我神智清醒，因为我已经沦落到这个地步了。安全和安全保证已成为过去。当我住在这里时，我只希望一件事，那就是我不会发疯，如果我确实还没有发疯的话。如果我理智的话，那么想到在这个可恶的地方潜伏的所有肮脏的东西中，伯爵对我来说是最不可怕的，我只能在他那里寻求安全，这肯定是令人发狂的，即使这只是当我可以达到他的目的。大神啊！仁慈的上帝，让我保持冷静，因为那才是真正的疯狂。我开始对某些令我困惑的事情有了新的认识。直到现在，我还不太明白莎士比亚让哈姆雷特说“我的石板！”的意思是什么。快点，我的平板电脑！ “我把它放下了，”等等，现在，我感觉自己的大脑似乎精神错乱了，或者好像冲击已经到来，必然会导致它的毁灭，我转向日记来寻求休息。准确输入的习惯一定有助于舒缓我的情绪。

The Count’s mysterious warning frightened me at the time. It frightens me more not when I think of it, for in the future he has a fearful hold upon me. I shall fear to doubt what he may say!
伯爵神秘的警告当时把我吓坏了。当我想到这一点时，我更感到害怕，因为将来他会对我产生可怕的控制。我不敢怀疑他所说的话！

When I had written in my diary and had fortunately replaced the book and pen in my pocket I felt sleepy. The Count’s warning came into my mind, but I took pleasure in disobeying it. The sense of sleep was upon me, and with it the obstinacy which sleep brings as outrider. The soft moonlight soothed, and the wide expanse without gave a sense of freedom which refreshed me. I determined not to return tonight to the gloom-haunted rooms, but to sleep here, where, of old, ladies had sat and sung and lived sweet lives whilst their gentle breasts were sad for their menfolk away in the midst of remorseless wars. I drew a great couch out of its place near the corner, so that as I lay, I could look at the lovely view to east and south, and unthinking of and uncaring for the dust, composed myself for sleep. I suppose I must have fallen asleep. I hope so, but I fear, for all that followed was startlingly real, so real that now sitting here in the broad, full sunlight of the morning, I cannot in the least believe that it was all sleep.
当我写完日记并幸运地把书和笔放回口袋里时，我感到困了。我的脑海中浮现出伯爵的警告，但我却以不服从为乐。睡眠的感觉降临在我身上，睡眠带来的固执也随之而来。柔和的月光让人心旷神怡，窗外广阔的天地给我一种自由的感觉，让我神清气爽。我决定今晚不回到阴暗的房间，而是睡在这里，从前，女士们在那里坐着唱歌，过着甜蜜的生活，而她们温柔的胸膛为她们在无情的战争中远去的男人们感到悲伤。我从角落里抽出一张大沙发，这样当我躺下时，我就可以看到东方和南方的美丽景色，不去想也不关心灰尘，让自己平静下来睡觉。我想我一定是睡着了。我希望如此，但我担心，因为接下来发生的一切都令人惊讶地真实，如此真实，以至于现在坐在早晨广阔、充足的阳光下，我根本无法相信这一切都是睡眠。

I was not alone. The room was the same, unchanged in any way since I came into it. I could see along the floor, in the brilliant moonlight, my own footsteps marked where I had disturbed the long accumulation of dust. In the moonlight opposite me were three young women, ladies by their dress and manner. I thought at the time that I must be dreaming when I saw them, they threw no shadow on the floor. They came close to me, and looked at me for some time, and then whispered together. Two were dark, and had high aquiline noses, like the Count, and great dark, piercing eyes, that seemed to be almost red when contrasted with the pale yellow moon. The other was fair, as fair as can be, with great masses of golden hair and eyes like pale sapphires. I seemed somehow to know her face, and to know it in connection with some dreamy fear, but I could not recollect at the moment how or where. All three had brilliant white teeth that shone like pearls against the ruby of their voluptuous lips. There was something about them that made me uneasy, some longing and at the same time some deadly fear. I felt in my heart a wicked, burning desire that they would kiss me with those red lips. It is not good to note this down, lest some day it should meet Mina’s eyes and cause her pain, but it is the truth. They whispered together, and then they all three laughed, such a silvery, musical laugh, but as hard as though the sound never could have come through the softness of human lips. It was like the intolerable, tingling sweetness of waterglasses when played on by a cunning hand. The fair girl shook her head coquettishly, and the other two urged her on.
我并不孤单。房间还是原来的样子，自从我进来之后没有任何变化。在明亮的月光下，我可以看到地板上有我自己的足迹，在我扰乱了长期积聚的灰尘的地方留下了痕迹。月光下，我对面站着三个年轻女子，从衣着和举止来看，都是女士。我当时想，当我看到他们时，我一定是在做梦，他们没有在地板上投下任何影子。他们靠近我，看了我一会儿，然后低声说话。两个人皮肤黝黑，长着高高的鹰钩鼻，就像伯爵一样，还有一双深邃而锐利的大眼睛，与淡黄色的月亮形成鲜明对比，眼睛看起来几乎是红色的。另一个人皮肤白皙，非常白皙，有一头浓密的金色头发和淡蓝宝石般的眼睛。我似乎不知何故认识她的脸，而且认识它与某种梦幻般的恐惧有关，但我现在记不起如何或在哪里。三人都有洁白的牙齿，在性感的红宝石嘴唇的衬托下，牙齿像珍珠一样闪闪发光。他们身上有一些东西让我感到不安，有些渴望，同时又有些致命的恐惧。我心里有一种邪恶而强烈的渴望，希望他们能用那红唇吻我。记下这一点不好，以免有一天它会出现在米娜的眼前并引起她的痛苦，但这是事实。他们窃窃私语，然后三个人都笑了，笑声如此清脆、悦耳，但声音却如此坚硬，仿佛这声音永远不可能从人类柔软的嘴唇中发出来。这就像水杯被狡猾的手玩弄时令人难以忍受的、刺痛的甜味。白皙少女撒娇地摇了摇头，另外两人催促着。

One said, ‘Go on! You are first, and we shall follow. Yours is the right to begin.’
其中一人说：‘继续吧！你是第一，我们紧随其后。你是开始的权利。

The other added, ‘He is young and strong. There are kisses for us all.’
另一个补充道：“他年轻又强壮。”我们所有人都有亲吻。

I lay quiet, looking out from under my eyelashes in an agony of delightful anticipation. The fair girl advanced and bent over me till I could feel the movement of her breath upon me. Sweet it was in one sense, honey-sweet, and sent the same tingling through the nerves as her voice, but with a bitter underlying the sweet, a bitter offensiveness, as one smells in blood.
我安静地躺着，从睫毛下往外看，心里充满了痛苦的喜悦。金发碧眼的女孩走上前来，弯下腰来压在我身上，直到我能感觉到她呼吸的气息在我身上移动。从某种意义上说，它是甜的，甜甜的，和她的声音一样，让神经感到刺痛，但甜中带着苦涩，一种苦涩的攻击性，就像人们在血中闻到的味道一样。

I was afraid to raise my eyelids, but looked out and saw perfectly under the lashes. The girl went on her knees, and bent over me, simply gloating. There was a deliberate voluptuousness which was both thrilling and repulsive, and as she arched her neck she actually licked her lips like an animal, till I could see in the moonlight the moisture shining on the scarlet lips and on the red tongue as it lapped the white sharp teeth. Lower and lower went her head as the lips went below the range of my mouth and chin and seemed to fasten on my throat. Then she paused, and I could hear the churning sound of her tongue as it licked her teeth and lips, and I could feel the hot breath on my neck. Then the skin of my throat began to tingle as one’s flesh does when the hand that is to tickle it approaches nearer, nearer. I could feel the soft, shivering touch of the lips on the super sensitive skin of my throat, and the hard dents of two sharp teeth, just touching and pausing there. I closed my eyes in languorous ecstasy and waited, waited with beating heart.
我不敢抬起眼皮，但向外一看，睫毛下的情况非常完美。女孩跪下来，向我弯下腰，只是幸灾乐祸。有一种刻意的性感，既令人惊悚又令人厌恶，她拱起脖子，竟像动物一样舔着嘴唇，直到我在月光下看到猩红的嘴唇和红色的舌头上舔着舌头时闪烁着的水分。白色锋利的牙齿。她的头越来越低，嘴唇低于我的嘴和下巴，似乎紧紧地扣住我的喉咙。然后她停了下来，我能听到她的舌头舔着牙齿和嘴唇时发出的搅动声，我能感觉到脖子上灼热的呼吸。然后我喉咙的皮肤开始刺痛，就像当要挠痒痒的手越来越近时，我的肉体会感到刺痛。我能感觉到嘴唇在我喉咙超级敏感的皮肤上柔软而颤抖的触感，以及两颗锋利的牙齿的坚硬凹痕，只是接触并停在那里。我在慵懒的狂喜中闭上眼睛，等待着，等待着，心跳加速。

But at that instant, another sensation swept through me as quick as lightning. I was conscious of the presence of the Count, and of his being as if lapped in a storm of fury. As my eyes opened involuntarily I saw his strong hand grasp the slender neck of the fair woman and with giant’s power draw it back, the blue eyes transformed with fury, the white teeth champing with rage, and the fair cheeks blazing red with passion. But the Count! Never did I imagine such wrath and fury, even to the demons of the pit. His eyes were positively blazing. The red light in them was lurid, as if the flames of hell fire blazed behind them. His face was deathly pale, and the lines of it were hard like drawn wires. The thick eyebrows that met over the nose now seemed like a heaving bar of white-hot metal. With a fierce sweep of his arm, he hurled the woman from him, and then motioned to the others, as though he were beating them back. It was the same imperious gesture that I had seen used to the wolves. In a voice which, though low and almost in a whisper seemed to cut through the air and then ring in the room he said,
但就在这时，另一种感觉闪电般地席卷了我。我意识到伯爵的存在，他的存在仿佛被狂暴的风暴所笼罩。当我不由自主地睁开眼睛时，只见他有力的大手抓住了白皙女子纤细的脖颈，以巨大的力量将其拉了回来，蓝眼睛里充满了愤怒，洁白的牙齿因愤怒而咬牙切齿，白皙的脸颊因激情而变得通红。但是伯爵！我从来没有想象过如此愤怒和愤怒，甚至对深渊的恶魔也是如此。他的眼睛确实在发光。他们身上的红光十分刺眼，仿佛背后有地狱之火在燃烧。他的脸色惨白，脸上的线条像拉过的电线一样坚硬。鼻子上方的浓眉现在看起来就像一根正在起伏的白热金属。他手臂猛地一挥，将女人从自己身边甩开，然后向其他人示意，仿佛要把他们打回去。这与我在狼群中看到的同样专横的姿态一样。他的声音虽然低沉，几乎像是耳语，但似乎划破了空气，然后在房间里响起：

‘How dare you touch him, any of you? How dare you cast eyes on him when I had forbidden it? Back, I tell you all! This man belongs to me! Beware how you meddle with him, or you’ll have to deal with me.’
‘你们怎么敢碰他，你们当中有人吗？我禁止你看他，你怎么敢看他？回来我都告诉你了！这个男人是我的！小心你怎么干涉他，否则你就得对付我了。

The fair girl, with a laugh of ribald coquetry, turned to answer him. ‘You yourself never loved. You never love!’ On this the other women joined, and such a mirthless, hard, soulless laughter rang through the room that it almost made me faint to hear. It seemed like the pleasure of fiends.
金发女郎，带着下流的撒娇笑声，转身回答他。 ‘你自己从来没有爱过。你永远不会爱！”其他女人也加入了进来，房间里响起了一阵无趣、生硬、没有灵魂的笑声，我几乎听不见了。这似乎是恶魔的快乐。

Then the Count turned, after looking at my face attentively, and said in a soft whisper, ‘Yes, I too can love. You yourselves can tell it from the past. Is it not so? Well, now I promise you that when I am done with him you shall kiss him at your will. Now go! Go! I must awaken him, for there is work to be done.’
然后伯爵转过身来，仔细地看着我的脸，轻声说道：“是的，我也能爱。”从过去的事你们自己就能看出来。不是这样吗？好吧，现在我向你保证，当我和他在一起时，你将随意吻他。现在，走吧！去！我必须叫醒他，因为还有工作要做。

‘Are we to have nothing tonight?’ said one of them, with a low laugh, as she pointed to the bag which he had thrown upon the floor, and which moved as though there were some living thing within it. For answer he nodded his head. One of the women jumped forward and opened it. If my ears did not deceive me there was a gasp and a low wail, as of a half smothered child. The women closed round, whilst I was aghast with horror. But as I looked, they disappeared, and with them the dreadful bag. There was no door near them, and they could not have passed me without my noticing. They simply seemed to fade into the rays of the moonlight and pass out through the window, for I could see outside the dim, shadowy forms for a moment before they entirely faded away.
“我们今晚就什么都没有了吗？”其中一个低声笑道，她指着他扔在地板上的袋子，袋子在动，好像里面有什么活物。作为回答，他点了点头。其中一名妇女跳上前打开了门。如果我的耳朵没有欺骗我的话，我会听到一声喘息和低沉的哭声，就像一个半窒息的孩子一样。女人们围拢过来，而我却惊恐万状。但当我看去时，它们消失了，还有那个可怕的袋子。他们附近没有门，他们不可能在我不注意的情况下从我身边经过。它们似乎只是消失在月光中，从窗户透出去，因为在它们完全消失之前，我可以看到外面昏暗的影子。

Then the horror overcame me, and I sank down unconscious.
然后恐惧笼罩了我，我昏倒在地。

Chapter 4
第4章

Jonathan Harker’s Journal Continued
乔纳森·哈克的日记续

I awoke in my own bed. If it be that I had not dreamt, the Count must have carried me here. I tried to satisfy myself on the subject, but could not arrive at any unquestionable result. To be sure, there were certain small evidences, such as that my clothes were folded and laid by in a manner which was not my habit. My watch was still unwound, and I am rigorously accustomed to wind it the last thing before going to bed, and many such details. But these things are no proof, for they may have been evidences that my mind was not as usual, and, for some cause or another, I had certainly been much upset. I must watch for proof. Of one thing I am glad. If it was that the Count carried me here and undressed me, he must have been hurried in his task, for my pockets are intact. I am sure this diary would have been a mystery to him which he would not have brooked. He would have taken or destroyed it. As I look round this room, although it has been to me so full of fear, it is now a sort of sanctuary, for nothing can be more dreadful than those awful women, who were, who are, waiting to suck my blood.
我在自己的床上醒来。如果不是我做梦，伯爵一定是把我带到这里来的。我试图在这个问题上让自己满意，但无法得出任何不容置疑的结果。确实，有一些小证据，比如我的衣服折叠和放置的方式不符合我的习惯。我的手表还没有上发条，我严格习惯于在睡觉前最后一件事给它上发条，还有很多这样的细节。但这些事情并不能证明，因为它们可能证明我的心智不正常，而且，出于某种原因，我确实感到非常沮丧。我必须留意证据。有一点我很高兴。如果是伯爵把我抱到这里，给我脱衣服，他的任务一定很匆忙，因为我的口袋完好无损。我确信这本日记对他来说是一个谜，他不会容忍。他会拿走或毁掉它。当我环顾这个房间时，虽然它对我来说充满了恐惧，但现在它就像一个避难所，因为没有什么比那些可怕的女人更可怕的了，她们过去、现在都在等着吸我的血。

18 May.—I have been down to look at that room again in daylight, for I must know the truth. When I got to the doorway at the top of the stairs I found it closed. It had been so forcibly driven against the jamb that part of the woodwork was splintered. I could see that the bolt of the lock had not been shot, but the door is fastened from the inside. I fear it was no dream, and must act on this surmise.
5 月 18 日——白天，我再次查看了那个房间，因为我必须知道真相。当我到达楼梯顶端的门口时，我发现它关着。它被如此用力地撞在门框上，以至于部分木制品破裂了。我可以看到锁舌没有被射中，但门是从里面锁上的。我担心这不是梦，必须根据这个猜测采取行动。

19 May.—I am surely in the toils. Last night the Count asked me in the suavest tones to write three letters, one saying that my work here was nearly done, and that I should start for home within a few days, another that I was starting on the next morning from the time of the letter, and the third that I had left the castle and arrived at Bistritz. I would fain have rebelled, but felt that in the present state of things it would be madness to quarrel openly with the Count whilst I am so absolutely in his power. And to refuse would be to excite his suspicion and to arouse his anger. He knows that I know too much, and that I must not live, lest I be dangerous to him. My only chance is to prolong my opportunities. Something may occur which will give me a chance to escape. I saw in his eyes something of that gathering wrath which was manifest when he hurled that fair woman from him. He explained to me that posts were few and uncertain, and that my writing now would ensure ease of mind to my friends. And he assured me with so much impressiveness that he would countermand the later letters, which would be held over at Bistritz until due time in case chance would admit of my prolonging my stay, that to oppose him would have been to create new suspicion. I therefore pretended to fall in with his views, and asked him what dates I should put on the letters.
5 月 19 日——我确实很辛苦。昨晚伯爵用最温和的语气让我写三封信，一封说我在这里的工作快完成了，几天之内我就该启程回家，另一封说我要从第二天早上开始。第三封信是我离开城堡到达比斯特里茨的。我很想反抗，但我觉得在目前的情况下，当我完全处于伯爵的权力之下时，公开与伯爵争吵是疯狂的。而拒绝，就会激起他的怀疑，激起他的愤怒。他知道我知道的太多了，我不能活下去，以免对他造成危险。我唯一的机会就是延长我的机会。可能会发生一些事情，给我逃跑的机会。我在他的眼中看到了当他把那个美丽的女人从他身边扔开时所表现出的愤怒。他向我解释说，帖子很少而且不确定，我现在的写作可以确保我的朋友们安心。他令人印象深刻地向我保证，他将撤销后来的信件，这些信件将在比斯特里茨保留到适当的时候，以防万一我有机会延长停留时间，反对他就会产生新的怀疑。因此，我假装同意他的观点，并问他我应该在信上写上什么日期。

He calculated a minute, and then said, ‘The first should be June 12, the second June 19, and the third June 29.’
他算了算一分钟，然后说道：“第一个应该是6月12日，第二个应该是6月19日，第三个应该是6月29日。”

I know now the span of my life. God help me!
我现在知道我的生命有多长了。神救救我！

28 May.—There is a chance of escape, or at any rate of being able to send word home. A band of Szgany have come to the castle, and are encamped in the courtyard. These are gipsies. I have notes of them in my book. They are peculiar to this part of the world, though allied to the ordinary gipsies all the world over. There are thousands of them in Hungary and Transylvania, who are almost outside all law. They attach themselves as a rule to some great noble or boyar, and call themselves by his name. They are fearless and without religion, save superstition, and they talk only their own varieties of the Romany tongue.
5 月 28 日——有机会逃脱，或者至少能够向家里传信。一队斯加尼人来到了城堡，并在庭院里扎营。这些是吉卜赛人。我的书中有他们的笔记。尽管他们与世界各地的普通吉普赛人结盟，但他们是世界这一地区所特有的。在匈牙利和特兰西瓦尼亚有数千人，他们几乎不受法律约束。他们通常依附于某个伟大的贵族或波雅尔，并以他的名字称呼自己。他们无所畏惧，没有宗教信仰，除了迷信之外，他们只讲自己的吉普赛语。

I shall write some letters home, and shall try to get them to have them posted. I have already spoken to them through my window to begin acquaintanceship. They took their hats off and made obeisance and many signs, which however, I could not understand any more than I could their spoken language …
我会写一些信回家，并设法让他们把它们寄出去。我已经通过窗户与他们交谈，开始认识。他们脱下帽子，行礼，做出许多手势，但我听不懂，就像听不懂他们的语言一样……

I have written the letters. Mina’s is in shorthand, and I simply ask Mr. Hawkins to communicate with her. To her I have explained my situation, but without the horrors which I may only surmise. It would shock and frighten her to death were I to expose my heart to her. Should the letters not carry, then the Count shall not yet know my secret or the extent of my knowledge….
我已经写信了。米娜的都是速记的，我干脆请霍金斯先生和她沟通一下。我向她解释了我的处境，但没有解释我只能猜测的恐怖。如果我把我的心暴露给她，她一定会震惊、害怕得要死。如果这些信件没有携带，那么伯爵还不知道我的秘密或我的知识范围……。

I have given the letters. I threw them through the bars of my window with a gold piece, and made what signs I could to have them posted. The man who took them pressed them to his heart and bowed, and then put them in his cap. I could do no more. I stole back to the study, and began to read. As the Count did not come in, I have written here …
我已经把信给了。我用一块金币把它们扔进了窗户的栅栏里，并做了我能做的手势让它们张贴起来。接过它们的人将它们按在胸口，鞠了一躬，然后把它们放进了自己的帽子里。我无能为力了。我偷偷回到书房，开始读书。由于伯爵没有进来，我就写在这里……

The Count has come. He sat down beside me, and said in his smoothest voice as he opened two letters, ‘The Szgany has given me these, of which, though I know not whence they come, I shall, of course, take care. See!’—He must have looked at it.—‘One is from you, and to my friend Peter Hawkins. The other,’—here he caught sight of the strange symbols as he opened the envelope, and the dark look came into his face, and his eyes blazed wickedly,—‘The other is a vile thing, an outrage upon friendship and hospitality! It is not signed. Well! So it cannot matter to us.’ And he calmly held letter and envelope in the flame of the lamp till they were consumed.
伯爵来了。他在我旁边坐下，打开两封信，用最柔和的声音说道：“斯加尼给了我这些，虽然我不知道它们来自哪里，但我当然会保管好。”看！”——他一定看过了。——“一封是你寄来的，也是我朋友彼得·霍金斯寄来的。另一个，”——当他打开信封时，他看到了奇怪的符号，他的脸上出现了阴沉的表情，他的眼睛里闪烁着邪恶的光芒，——“另一个是一个卑鄙的东西，是对友谊和热情好客的侮辱！它没有签名。出色地！所以这对我们来说并不重要。”他平静地把信和信封放在灯的火焰中，直到它们被烧毁。

Then he went on, ‘The letter to Hawkins, that I shall, of course send on, since it is yours. Your letters are sacred to me. Your pardon, my friend, that unknowingly I did break the seal. Will you not cover it again?’ He held out the letter to me, and with a courteous bow handed me a clean envelope.
然后他继续说道：“给霍金斯的信，我当然会寄出去，因为它是你的。”你的信对我来说是神圣的。请原谅，我的朋友，我在不知不觉中打破了封印。你不想再盖一下吗？”他把信递给我，礼貌地鞠了一躬，递给我一个干净的信封。

I could only redirect it and hand it to him in silence. When he went out of the room I could hear the key turn softly. A minute later I went over and tried it, and the door was locked.
我只能默默地把它转移给他。当他走出房间时，我能听到钥匙轻轻转动的声音。一分钟后我过去试了一下，门锁上了。

When, an hour or two after, the Count came quietly into the room, his coming awakened me, for I had gone to sleep on the sofa. He was very courteous and very cheery in his manner, and seeing that I had been sleeping, he said, ‘So, my friend, you are tired? Get to bed. There is the surest rest. I may not have the pleasure of talk tonight, since there are many labours to me, but you will sleep, I pray.’
一两个小时后，当伯爵悄悄走进房间时，他的到来惊醒了我，因为我已经在沙发上睡着了。他很有礼貌，态度也很愉快，看到我已经睡着了，他说：‘那么，我的朋友，你累了吗？上床睡觉吧。那里有最可靠的休息。今晚我可能没有愉快的谈话，因为我有很多工作要做，但我祈祷你会睡觉。

I passed to my room and went to bed, and, strange to say, slept without dreaming. Despair has its own calms.
我走进自己的房间，上床睡觉，奇怪的是，我睡着了，没有做梦。绝望也有它自己的平静。

31 May.—This morning when I woke I thought I would provide myself with some papers and envelopes from my bag and keep them in my pocket, so that I might write in case I should get an opportunity, but again a surprise, again a shock!
5 月 31 日——今天早上，当我醒来时，我想从包里拿出一些文件和信封，放在口袋里，这样我就可以写信，以防有机会，但又是一个惊喜，又是一个惊喜。震惊！

Every scrap of paper was gone, and with it all my notes, my memoranda, relating to railways and travel, my letter of credit, in fact all that might be useful to me were I once outside the castle. I sat and pondered awhile, and then some thought occurred to me, and I made search of my portmanteau and in the wardrobe where I had placed my clothes.
每张纸片都不见了，连同我所有的笔记、我的备忘录、有关铁路和旅行的、我的信用证，事实上，一旦我走出城堡，所有可能对我有用的东西都消失了。我坐下来沉思了一会儿，然后我想到了一些事情，于是我在我的手提包和我放衣服的衣柜里寻找。

The suit in which I had travelled was gone, and also my overcoat and rug. I could find no trace of them anywhere. This looked like some new scheme of villainy …
我旅行时穿的那套衣服不见了，大衣和地毯也不见了。我在任何地方都找不到他们的踪迹。这看起来像是某种新的邪恶计划……

17 June.—This morning, as I was sitting on the edge of my bed cudgelling my brains, I heard without a crackling of whips and pounding and scraping of horses’ feet up the rocky path beyond the courtyard. With joy I hurried to the window, and saw drive into the yard two great leiter-wagons, each drawn by eight sturdy horses, and at the head of each pair a Slovak, with his wide hat, great nail-studded belt, dirty sheepskin, and high boots. They had also their long staves in hand. I ran to the door, intending to descend and try and join them through the main hall, as I thought that way might be opened for them. Again a shock, my door was fastened on the outside.
6 月 17 日——今天早上，当我坐在床边绞尽脑汁时，我听到院子外面的岩石小路上没有鞭子的噼啪声和马蹄的撞击声和刮擦声。我高兴地跑到窗前，看到院子里开着两辆巨大的莱特马车，每辆马车都由八匹健壮的马拉着，每对马车的车头都有一个斯洛伐克人，戴着宽大的帽子，系着钉着钉子的大腰带，穿着脏兮兮的羊皮。和高筒靴。他们手里还拿着长棍。我跑到门口，打算下楼尝试通过大厅与他们会合，因为我认为这条路可能会为他们敞开。再次震惊的是，我的门从外面锁上了。

Then I ran to the window and cried to them. They looked up at me stupidly and pointed, but just then the ‘hetman’ of the Szgany came out, and seeing them pointing to my window, said something, at which they laughed.
然后我跑到窗边向他们哭诉。他们傻乎乎地抬头看着我，指指点点，但就在这时，斯加尼的“酋长”走了出来，看到他们指着我的窗户，说了些什么，他们笑了。

Henceforth no effort of mine, no piteous cry or agonized entreaty, would make them even look at me. They resolutely turned away. The leiter-wagons contained great, square boxes, with handles of thick rope. These were evidently empty by the ease with which the Slovaks handled them, and by their resonance as they were roughly moved.
从此以后，我的任何努力、任何可怜的呼喊或痛苦的恳求，都无法让他们看我一眼。他们毅然转身离开。莱特马车里装着巨大的方形箱子，箱子的把手是粗绳子。从斯洛伐克人处理它们的轻松程度以及它们被粗暴移动时的共鸣来看，这些显然是空的。

When they were all unloaded and packed in a great heap in one corner of the yard, the Slovaks were given some money by the Szgany, and spitting on it for luck, lazily went each to his horse’s head. Shortly afterwards, I heard the crackling of their whips die away in the distance.
当它们全部卸完并在院子的一个角落里堆成一大堆时，斯加尼人给了斯洛伐克一些钱，他们向上面吐口水以求好运，然后懒洋洋地走向自己的马头。不久之后，我听到他们鞭子的噼啪声在远处消失了。

24 June.—Last night the Count left me early, and locked himself into his own room. As soon as I dared I ran up the winding stair, and looked out of the window, which opened South. I thought I would watch for the Count, for there is something going on. The Szgany are quartered somewhere in the castle and are doing work of some kind. I know it, for now and then, I hear a far-away muffled sound as of mattock and spade, and, whatever it is, it must be the end of some ruthless villainy.
6 月 24 日——昨晚伯爵很早就离开了我，把自己锁在自己的房间里。我一鼓起勇气就跑上蜿蜒的楼梯，朝南开的窗户往外看。我想我应该留意伯爵，因为有事情发生。斯加尼一家驻扎在城堡的某个地方，正在做某种工作。我知道，时不时地，我会听到远处传来鹤嘴锹和铲子的低沉声音，而且，不管它是什么，这一定是某种残酷罪恶的终结。

I had been at the window somewhat less than half an hour, when I saw something coming out of the Count’s window. I drew back and watched carefully, and saw the whole man emerge. It was a new shock to me to find that he had on the suit of clothes which I had worn whilst travelling here, and slung over his shoulder the terrible bag which I had seen the women take away. There could be no doubt as to his quest, and in my garb, too! This, then, is his new scheme of evil, that he will allow others to see me, as they think, so that he may both leave evidence that I have been seen in the towns or villages posting my own letters, and that any wickedness which he may do shall by the local people be attributed to me.
我在窗口待了不到半个小时，就看到有东西从伯爵的窗户里出来了。我退后仔细观察，看到整个人浮现出来。当我发现他穿着我来这里旅行时穿过的衣服，肩上挎着我看到女人们拿走的可怕包时，我感到新的震惊。他的追求是毫无疑问的，而且穿着我的服装也是如此！那么，这就是他的新邪恶计划，他将允许其他人看到我，正如他们所想的那样，这样他就可以留下证据，证明有人看到我在城镇或村庄里张贴了我自己的信件，并且任何邪恶的行为都不会发生。他所做的一切，当地人都将归于我。

It makes me rage to think that this can go on, and whilst I am shut up here, a veritable prisoner, but without that protection of the law which is even a criminal’s right and consolation.
一想到这种情况还能继续下去，我就感到愤怒，而我被关在这里，成为一个名副其实的囚犯，但却没有法律的保护，这甚至是罪犯的权利和安慰。

I thought I would watch for the Count’s return, and for a long time sat doggedly at the window. Then I began to notice that there were some quaint little specks floating in the rays of the moonlight. They were like the tiniest grains of dust, and they whirled round and gathered in clusters in a nebulous sort of way. I watched them with a sense of soothing, and a sort of calm stole over me. I leaned back in the embrasure in a more comfortable position, so that I could enjoy more fully the aerial gambolling.
我以为我会等待伯爵回来，于是在窗边顽强地坐了很长时间。然后我开始注意到月光里漂浮着一些古怪的小斑点。它们就像是最微小的尘埃，旋转着，聚集成一团，云里雾里。我带着一种安慰的感觉看着他们，一种平静悄悄笼罩着我。我以更舒服的姿势向后靠在发射口上，这样我就可以更充分地享受空中嬉戏。

Something made me start up, a low, piteous howling of dogs somewhere far below in the valley, which was hidden from my sight. Louder it seemed to ring in my ears, and the floating moats of dust to take new shapes to the sound as they danced in the moonlight. I felt myself struggling to awake to some call of my instincts. Nay, my very soul was struggling, and my half-remembered sensibilities were striving to answer the call. I was becoming hypnotised!
有什么东西让我惊呆了，那是山谷深处某处传来的低沉、可怜的狗叫声，但我看不见。它在我耳边响起的声音似乎更大了，漂浮的尘土在月光下翩翩起舞，为声音赋予了新的形状。我感觉自己在努力唤醒自己本能的召唤。不，我的灵魂正在挣扎，我记不清的情感正在努力回应这个召唤。我快要被催眠了！

Quicker and quicker danced the dust. The moonbeams seemed to quiver as they went by me into the mass of gloom beyond. More and more they gathered till they seemed to take dim phantom shapes. And then I started, broad awake and in full possession of my senses, and ran screaming from the place.
尘土飞舞得越来越快。当月光从我身边掠过，进入远处的阴暗环境时，它们似乎在颤抖。它们越来越多，直到看起来变成了模糊的幻影。然后我开始了，完全清醒，完全恢复了理智，尖叫着逃离了这个地方。

The phantom shapes, which were becoming gradually materialised from the moonbeams, were those three ghostly women to whom I was doomed.
从月光中逐渐显现出来的幻影，正是我命中注定的那三个幽灵般的女人。

I fled, and felt somewhat safer in my own room, where there was no moonlight, and where the lamp was burning brightly.
我逃了出来，在自己的房间里感觉更安全一些，那里没有月光，灯火通明。

When a couple of hours had passed I heard something stirring in the Count’s room, something like a sharp wail quickly suppressed. And then there was silence, deep, awful silence, which chilled me. With a beating heart, I tried the door, but I was locked in my prison, and could do nothing. I sat down and simply cried.
几个小时过去了，我听到伯爵的房间里有什么动静，像是一声尖锐的哀号，很快就被压下去了。然后就是一片寂静，深沉的、可怕的寂静，让我不寒而栗。我怀着一颗狂跳的心尝试开门，但我被锁在监狱里，无能为力。我坐下来哭了。

As I sat I heard a sound in the courtyard without, the agonised cry of a woman. I rushed to the window, and throwing it up, peered between the bars.
当我坐着的时候，我听到外面院子里有声音，是一个女人痛苦的哭声。我冲到窗前，把窗户扔了上去，从栅栏间往外看。

There, indeed, was a woman with dishevelled hair, holding her hands over her heart as one distressed with running. She was leaning against the corner of the gateway. When she saw my face at the window she threw herself forward, and shouted in a voice laden with menace, ‘Monster, give me my child!’
那里确实有一个头发蓬乱的女人，她双手捂着胸口，一副因跑步而苦恼的样子。她靠在门口的一角。当她看到窗外我的脸时，她猛地向前扑去，用充满威胁的声音喊道：“怪物，把我的孩子给我！”

She threw herself on her knees, and raising up her hands, cried the same words in tones which wrung my heart. Then she tore her hair and beat her breast, and abandoned herself to all the violences of extravagant emotion. Finally, she threw herself forward, and though I could not see her, I could hear the beating of her naked hands against the door.
她跪下，举起双手，大声喊出同样的话，语气让我心痛不已。然后她撕扯自己的头发，捶打自己的胸部，让自己陷入了过度情感的暴力之中。最后，她向前扑去，虽然我看不到她，但我能听到她赤裸的手敲打门的声音。

Somewhere high overhead, probably on the tower, I heard the voice of the Count calling in his harsh, metallic whisper. His call seemed to be answered from far and wide by the howling of wolves. Before many minutes had passed a pack of them poured, like a pent-up dam when liberated, through the wide entrance into the courtyard.
在头顶高处，可能是在塔楼上，我听到伯爵用他刺耳的、金属般的低语呼唤着我。他的呼唤似乎从四面八方传来了狼嚎的回应。几分钟后，一堆东西就从宽阔的入口涌入庭院，就像被释放的水坝一样。

There was no cry from the woman, and the howling of the wolves was but short. Before long they streamed away singly, licking their lips.
女人没有哭声，狼嚎声也很短。不久，他们各自舔着嘴唇，各自走开。

I could not pity her, for I knew now what had become of her child, and she was better dead.
我无法怜悯她，因为我现在知道她的孩子怎么样了，她最好死了。

What shall I do? What can I do? How can I escape from this dreadful thing of night, gloom, and fear?
我该怎么办？我能做些什么？我怎样才能摆脱这可怕的夜晚、阴暗和恐惧呢？

25 June.—No man knows till he has suffered from the night how sweet and dear to his heart and eye the morning can be. When the sun grew so high this morning that it struck the top of the great gateway opposite my window, the high spot which it touched seemed to me as if the dove from the ark had lighted there. My fear fell from me as if it had been a vaporous garment which dissolved in the warmth.
6 月 25 日。——没有人知道，除非经历了夜晚的痛苦，早晨对他的心和眼睛来说是多么甜蜜和可爱。今天早上，当太阳升得很高，照在我窗户对面的大门顶部时，我觉得它所触及的高处就好像方舟上的鸽子在那里照亮了一样。我的恐惧从我身上消失了，就像一件蒸发的衣服在温暖中溶解了一样。

I must take action of some sort whilst the courage of the day is upon me. Last night one of my post-dated letters went to post, the first of that fatal series which is to blot out the very traces of my existence from the earth.
当我有勇气的时候，我必须采取某种行动。昨晚，我的一封远期信件寄出，这是那致命系列的第一封，它将从地球上抹去我存在的痕迹。

Let me not think of it. Action!
让我别想了。行动！

It has always been at night-time that I have been molested or threatened, or in some way in danger or in fear. I have not yet seen the Count in the daylight. Can it be that he sleeps when others wake, that he may be awake whilst they sleep? If I could only get into his room! But there is no possible way. The door is always locked, no way for me.
我总是在夜间受到骚扰或威胁，或者以某种方式处于危险或恐惧之中。我还没在白天见过伯爵。难道别人醒的时候他就睡了，别人睡的时候他也醒着吗？如果我能进入他的房间就好了！但没有办法。门总是锁着的，我没办法。

Yes, there is a way, if one dares to take it. Where his body has gone why may not another body go? I have seen him myself crawl from his window. Why should not I imitate him, and go in by his window? The chances are desperate, but my need is more desperate still. I shall risk it. At the worst it can only be death, and a man’s death is not a calf’s, and the dreaded Hereafter may still be open to me. God help me in my task! Goodbye, Mina, if I fail. Goodbye, my faithful friend and second father. Goodbye, all, and last of all Mina!
是的，有办法，只要你敢于采取。他的身体已经去了哪里，为什么另一个身体不能去呢？我亲眼看到他从窗户爬出来。我为什么不效仿他，从他的窗户进去呢？机会是绝望的，但我的需要更加迫切。我将冒险。最坏的情况也只能是死亡，而人的死亡不是牛犊的死亡，而可怕的后世可能仍然向我敞开。上帝帮助我完成我的任务！再见，米娜，如果我失败了。再见，我忠实的朋友和第二个父亲。再见，所有人，也是最后的米娜！

Same day, later.—I have made the effort, and God helping me, have come safely back to this room. I must put down every detail in order. I went whilst my courage was fresh straight to the window on the south side, and at once got outside on this side. The stones are big and roughly cut, and the mortar has by process of time been washed away between them. I took off my boots, and ventured out on the desperate way. I looked down once, so as to make sure that a sudden glimpse of the awful depth would not overcome me, but after that kept my eyes away from it. I know pretty well the direction and distance of the Count’s window, and made for it as well as I could, having regard to the opportunities available. I did not feel dizzy, I suppose I was too excited, and the time seemed ridiculously short till I found myself standing on the window sill and trying to raise up the sash. I was filled with agitation, however, when I bent down and slid feet foremost in through the window. Then I looked around for the Count, but with surprise and gladness, made a discovery. The room was empty! It was barely furnished with odd things, which seemed to have never been used.
同一天，稍后。——我已经做出了努力，上帝帮助了我，安全地回到了这个房间。我必须按顺序记下每一个细节。我鼓起勇气径直走到南边的窗户前，立刻从这边出去了。石头很大，切割粗糙，随着时间的推移，石头之间的灰浆已经被冲走了。我脱掉靴子，冒险踏上绝望的道路。我低头看了一眼，以确保突然看到的可怕的深度不会让我屈服，但之后我的眼睛就移开了。我非常清楚伯爵窗户的方向和距离，并考虑到可用的机会，尽我所能地朝它走去。我并没有感到头晕，我想我太兴奋了，时间似乎短得可笑，直到我发现自己站在窗台上，试图拉起窗框。然而，当我弯下腰，把脚从窗户滑进去时，我心里充满了激动。然后我环顾四周寻找伯爵，但又惊讶又高兴，我有了一个发现。房间里空荡荡的！里面几乎没有什么奇怪的东西，似乎从来没有被使用过。

The furniture was something the same style as that in the south rooms, and was covered with dust. I looked for the key, but it was not in the lock, and I could not find it anywhere. The only thing I found was a great heap of gold in one corner, gold of all kinds, Roman, and British, and Austrian, and Hungarian, and Greek and Turkish money, covered with a film of dust, as though it had lain long in the ground. None of it that I noticed was less than three hundred years old. There were also chains and ornaments, some jewelled, but all of them old and stained.
家具和南屋的风格一样，上面布满了灰尘。我寻找钥匙，但钥匙不在锁里，到处都找不到。我唯一发现的是一个角落里有一大堆金子，各种各样的金子，罗马的、英国的、奥地利的、匈牙利的、希腊的和土耳其的钱，上面覆盖着一层灰尘，好像已经躺了很久了。在地下。我注意到的所有东西的历史都没有少于三百年。还有链子和装饰品，有的还镶着珠宝，但都又旧又脏。

At one corner of the room was a heavy door. I tried it, for, since I could not find the key of the room or the key of the outer door, which was the main object of my search, I must make further examination, or all my efforts would be in vain. It was open, and led through a stone passage to a circular stairway, which went steeply down.
房间的一个角落有一扇厚重的门。我尝试了一下，因为我找不到房间的钥匙，也找不到我主要寻找的外门的钥匙，所以我必须进一步检查，否则我的一切努力都会白费。门是敞开的，穿过一条石头通道，通向一个圆形的楼梯，楼梯陡峭地向下延伸。

I descended, minding carefully where I went for the stairs were dark, being only lit by loopholes in the heavy masonry. At the bottom there was a dark, tunnel-like passage, through which came a deathly, sickly odour, the odour of old earth newly turned. As I went through the passage the smell grew closer and heavier. At last I pulled open a heavy door which stood ajar, and found myself in an old ruined chapel, which had evidently been used as a graveyard. The roof was broken, and in two places were steps leading to vaults, but the ground had recently been dug over, and the earth placed in great wooden boxes, manifestly those which had been brought by the Slovaks.
我下了楼，小心翼翼地留意着自己要去的地方，因为楼梯很黑，只有厚重砖石上的漏洞照亮。底部有一条黑暗的隧道般的通道，里面散发出一种死气沉沉、令人作呕的气味，是旧土新变的气味。当我穿过通道时，气味越来越近、越来越重。最后，我拉开一扇半开的厚重门，发现自己身处一座破旧的教堂废墟中，它显然被用作墓地。屋顶已经破损，有两处是通往拱顶的台阶，但地面最近被挖了，泥土被放在大木箱里，显然是斯洛伐克人带来的。

There was nobody about, and I made a search over every inch of the ground, so as not to lose a chance. I went down even into the vaults, where the dim light struggled, although to do so was a dread to my very soul. Into two of these I went, but saw nothing except fragments of old coffins and piles of dust. In the third, however, I made a discovery.
周围没有人，我把每一寸土地都搜遍了，以免失去机会。我什至走进了地下室，那里光线昏暗，尽管这样做对我的灵魂来说是一种恐惧。我进去了其中的两个，但除了旧棺材的碎片和成堆的灰尘之外什么也没看到。然而，在第三次中，我有了一个发现。

There, in one of the great boxes, of which there were fifty in all, on a pile of newly dug earth, lay the Count! He was either dead or asleep. I could not say which, for eyes were open and stony, but without the glassiness of death, and the cheeks had the warmth of life through all their pallor. The lips were as red as ever. But there was no sign of movement, no pulse, no breath, no beating of the heart.
在那里，在一个大箱子里，有五十个箱子，在一堆新挖的土上，躺着伯爵！他要么死了，要么睡着了。我说不出来是哪一个，因为眼睛睁着，冷酷无情，但没有死亡的玻璃，脸颊苍白却充满了生命的温暖。嘴唇还是一如既往的红。但没有任何动静，没有脉搏，没有呼吸，没有心跳。

I bent over him, and tried to find any sign of life, but in vain. He could not have lain there long, for the earthy smell would have passed away in a few hours. By the side of the box was its cover, pierced with holes here and there. I thought he might have the keys on him, but when I went to search I saw the dead eyes, and in them dead though they were, such a look of hate, though unconscious of me or my presence, that I fled from the place, and leaving the Count’s room by the window, crawled again up the castle wall. Regaining my room, I threw myself panting upon the bed and tried to think.
我弯下腰，试图寻找任何生命迹象，但徒劳无功。他不能在那里躺太久，因为泥土的气味几个小时后就会消失。盒子旁边是盖子，上面到处都是洞。我以为他身上可能有钥匙，但当我去搜查时，我看到了那双死气沉沉的眼睛，尽管它们是死气沉沉的，但他们的眼神却充满了仇恨，尽管没有意识到我或我的存在，所以我逃离了这个地方，离开伯爵的房间靠窗处，再次爬上城堡的围墙。回到自己的房间，我气喘吁吁地倒在床上，试图思考。

29 June.—Today is the date of my last letter, and the Count has taken steps to prove that it was genuine, for again I saw him leave the castle by the same window, and in my clothes. As he went down the wall, lizard fashion, I wished I had a gun or some lethal weapon, that I might destroy him. But I fear that no weapon wrought along by man’s hand would have any effect on him. I dared not wait to see him return, for I feared to see those weird sisters. I came back to the library, and read there till I fell asleep.
6 月 29 日——今天是我写最后一封信的日期，伯爵已采取措施证明这封信是真实的，因为我再次看到他穿着我的衣服从同一扇窗户离开城堡。当他以蜥蜴的方式从墙上下来时，我希望我有一把枪或一些致命武器，这样我就可以消灭他。但我担心，任何人手制造的武器都无法对他产生任何作用。我不敢等他回来，因为我害怕看到那些奇怪的姐妹。我回到图书馆，一直读书直到睡着。

I was awakened by the Count, who looked at me as grimly as a man could look as he said, ‘Tomorrow, my friend, we must part. You return to your beautiful England, I to some work which may have such an end that we may never meet. Your letter home has been despatched. Tomorrow I shall not be here, but all shall be ready for your journey. In the morning come the Szgany, who have some labours of their own here, and also come some Slovaks. When they have gone, my carriage shall come for you, and shall bear you to the Borgo Pass to meet the diligence from Bukovina to Bistritz. But I am in hopes that I shall see more of you at Castle Dracula.’
伯爵叫醒了我，他用男人般冷酷的眼神看着我，说道：“明天，我的朋友，我们必须分手了。”你回到你美丽的英格兰，我去做一些工作，但最终我们可能永远不会见面。你的家信已经寄出。明天我不会在这里，但一切都会为你的旅程做好准备。早上，斯加尼人来了，他们在这里有自己的一些劳动，还有一些斯洛伐克人也来了。他们走后，我的马车就会来接你，载你到博尔戈山口，迎接从布科维纳到比斯特里茨的旅途。但我希望能在德古拉城堡见到你们更多。”

I suspected him, and determined to test his sincerity. Sincerity! It seems like a profanation of the word to write it in connection with such a monster, so I asked him point-blank, ‘Why may I not go tonight?’
我对他产生了怀疑，决定试探一下他的诚意。诚意！把它和这样一个怪物联系在一起似乎是对这个词的亵渎，所以我直截了当地问他：“为什么我今晚不能去？”

‘Because, dear sir, my coachman and horses are away on a mission.’
“因为，亲爱的先生，我的车夫和马匹正在执行任务。”

‘But I would walk with pleasure. I want to get away at once.’
“但我会很高兴地走路。我想立刻离开。

He smiled, such a soft, smooth, diabolical smile that I knew there was some trick behind his smoothness. He said, ‘And your baggage?’
他笑了，那笑容是那样的柔和、光滑、恶魔般的笑容，我知道他的光滑背后一定有什么诡计。他说：“你的行李呢？”

‘I do not care about it. I can send for it some other time.’
'我不关心它。我可以改天再派人去取。

The Count stood up, and said, with a sweet courtesy which made me rub my eyes, it seemed so real, ‘You English have a saying which is close to my heart, for its spirit is that which rules our boyars, ‘Welcome the coming, speed the parting guest.’ Come with me, my dear young friend. Not an hour shall you wait in my house against your will, though sad am I at your going, and that you so suddenly desire it. Come!’ With a stately gravity, he, with the lamp, preceded me down the stairs and along the hall. Suddenly he stopped. ‘Hark!’
伯爵站起来，以一种让我揉揉眼睛的甜蜜礼貌说道，这似乎是那么真实，“你们英国人有一句俗话，我很感动，因为它的精神是统治我们贵族的，‘欢迎来吧，催促这位即将离别的客人。跟我来吧，我亲爱的年轻朋友。你不能违背自己的意愿在我家里等待一个小时，尽管我对你的离开感到难过，而且你突然如此渴望它。来吧！”他带着庄重的神情，提着灯，在我前面走下楼梯，沿着大厅走下去。突然他停了下来。 “听着！”

Close at hand came the howling of many wolves. It was almost as if the sound sprang up at the rising of his hand, just as the music of a great orchestra seems to leap under the baton of the conductor. After a pause of a moment, he proceeded, in his stately way, to the door, drew back the ponderous bolts, unhooked the heavy chains, and began to draw it open.
近处传来许多狼的嚎叫声。就好像他的手一抬起，声音就突然响起，就像一支伟大的管弦乐队的音乐似乎在指挥的指挥棒下跳跃一样。停顿了一会儿，他以他庄严的方式走到门口，拉开笨重的门闩，解开沉重的铁链，开始把门拉开。

To my intense astonishment I saw that it was unlocked. Suspiciously, I looked all round, but could see no key of any kind.
令我惊讶的是，我发现门没有锁。我疑惑地环顾四周，却没有看到任何钥匙。

As the door began to open, the howling of the wolves without grew louder and angrier. Their red jaws, with champing teeth, and their blunt-clawed feet as they leaped, came in through the opening door. I knew than that to struggle at the moment against the Count was useless. With such allies as these at his command, I could do nothing.
随着门的打开，门外的狼嚎声越来越大，越来越愤怒。它们红着下巴，牙齿咬着，跳跃时爪子钝了，从敞开的门进来了。我知道此刻与伯爵斗争是没有用的。有了这样的盟友在他的指挥下，我无能为力。

But still the door continued slowly to open, and only the Count’s body stood in the gap. Suddenly it struck me that this might be the moment and means of my doom. I was to be given to the wolves, and at my own instigation. There was a diabolical wickedness in the idea great enough for the Count, and as the last chance I cried out, ‘Shut the door! I shall wait till morning.’ And I covered my face with my hands to hide my tears of bitter disappointment.
但门仍然缓缓打开，只有伯爵的尸体站在门缝里。突然我意识到这可能就是我的厄运的时刻和手段。我将被交给狼群，而且是在我自己的怂恿下。对于伯爵来说，这个想法实在是太邪恶了，当我最后一次机会时，我大声喊道：“关上门！”我会等到早上。”我用手捂住脸，掩饰我痛苦失望的泪水。

With one sweep of his powerful arm, the Count threw the door shut, and the great bolts clanged and echoed through the hall as they shot back into their places.
伯爵用他有力的手臂一挥，就把门关上了，巨大的门闩叮当作响，在大厅里回响，因为它们射回了原来的位置。

In silence we returned to the library, and after a minute or two I went to my own room. The last I saw of Count Dracula was his kissing his hand to me, with a red light of triumph in his eyes, and with a smile that Judas in hell might be proud of.
我们默默地回到图书馆，一两分钟后我就回到了自己的房间。我最后一次见到德古拉伯爵是他亲吻我的手，他的眼睛里闪烁着胜利的红光，脸上带着地狱里的犹大可能会感到自豪的微笑。

When I was in my room and about to lie down, I thought I heard a whispering at my door. I went to it softly and listened. Unless my ears deceived me, I heard the voice of the Count.
当我回到自己的房间准备躺下时，我觉得我听到门口有窃窃私语的声音。我轻轻地走过去听着。除非我的耳朵欺骗了我，否则我听到了伯爵的声音。

‘Back! Back to your own place! Your time is not yet come. Wait! Have patience! Tonight is mine. Tomorrow night is yours!’
'后退！回到自己的地方去吧！你的时间还没有到。等待！有耐心！今晚是我的。明天晚上就是你的了！”

There was a low, sweet ripple of laughter, and in a rage I threw open the door, and saw without the three terrible women licking their lips. As I appeared, they all joined in a horrible laugh, and ran away.
一阵低沉而甜美的笑声响起，我愤怒地推开门，看到那三个可怕的女人没有舔嘴唇。当我出现时，他们都发出一阵可怕的笑声，然后逃跑了。

I came back to my room and threw myself on my knees. It is then so near the end? Tomorrow! Tomorrow! Lord, help me, and those to whom I am dear!
我回到自己的房间，跪倒在地。那么已经接近尾声了吗？明天！明天！主啊，请帮助我和那些我所亲爱的人！

30 June.—These may be the last words I ever write in this diary. I slept till just before the dawn, and when I woke threw myself on my knees, for I determined that if Death came he should find me ready.
6 月 30 日——这可能是我在这本日记中写下的最后一句话。我一直睡到黎明前，当我醒来时，我跪下，因为我决定，如果死亡来临，他会发现我已经准备好了。

At last I felt that subtle change in the air, and knew that the morning had come. Then came the welcome cockcrow, and I felt that I was safe. With a glad heart, I opened the door and ran down the hall. I had seen that the door was unlocked, and now escape was before me. With hands that trembled with eagerness, I unhooked the chains and threw back the massive bolts.
终于，我感觉到了空气中微妙的变化，知道早晨已经到来了。然后传来欢迎的鸡鸣声，我觉得我安全了。我怀着高兴的心情，打开门，跑进大厅。我看到门没有锁，现在逃生就在我面前。我的双手因渴望而颤抖，解开了链条，扔回了巨大的螺栓。

But the door would not move. Despair seized me. I pulled and pulled at the door, and shook it till, massive as it was, it rattled in its casement. I could see the bolt shot. It had been locked after I left the Count.
但门却纹丝不动。绝望抓住了我。我拉啊拉啊，摇晃着门，尽管它很大，但它在窗扉里嘎嘎作响。我可以看到螺栓射击。我离开伯爵后它就被锁上了。

Then a wild desire took me to obtain the key at any risk, and I determined then and there to scale the wall again, and gain the Count’s room. He might kill me, but death now seemed the happier choice of evils. Without a pause I rushed up to the east window, and scrambled down the wall, as before, into the Count’s room. It was empty, but that was as I expected. I could not see a key anywhere, but the heap of gold remained. I went through the door in the corner and down the winding stair and along the dark passage to the old chapel. I knew now well enough where to find the monster I sought.
然后，一股强烈的欲望驱使我不惜一切代价拿到钥匙，我当场决定再次翻墙，进入伯爵的房间。他可能会杀了我，但现在死亡似乎是邪恶中更快乐的选择。我毫不犹豫地冲到东窗前，像以前一样从墙上爬进伯爵的房间。虽然空无一人，但正如我所料。我到处都看不到钥匙，但那堆金子仍然存在。我穿过角落里的门，走下蜿蜒的楼梯，沿着黑暗的通道来到古老的教堂。我现在很清楚在哪里可以找到我所寻找的怪物。

The great box was in the same place, close against the wall, but the lid was laid on it, not fastened down, but with the nails ready in their places to be hammered home.
大盒子还在同一个地方，靠近墙，但盖子放在上面，没有固定，但钉子已就位，可以用锤子钉住。

I knew I must reach the body for the key, so I raised the lid, and laid it back against the wall. And then I saw something which filled my very soul with horror. There lay the Count, but looking as if his youth had been half restored. For the white hair and moustache were changed to dark iron-grey. The cheeks were fuller, and the white skin seemed ruby-red underneath. The mouth was redder than ever, for on the lips were gouts of fresh blood, which trickled from the corners of the mouth and ran down over the chin and neck. Even the deep, burning eyes seemed set amongst swollen flesh, for the lids and pouches underneath were bloated. It seemed as if the whole awful creature were simply gorged with blood. He lay like a filthy leech, exhausted with his repletion.
我知道我必须伸手去拿钥匙，所以我打开盖子，把它放回墙上。然后我看到了一些让我的灵魂充满恐惧的东西。伯爵躺在那里，看上去他的青春已经恢复了一半。因为白色的头发和胡子变成了深铁灰色。脸颊更加饱满，白皙的皮肤下面显得红宝石色。嘴巴比以前更红了，因为嘴唇上有股股鲜血，从嘴角淌下来，顺着下巴和脖子流下来。就连那双深邃、灼热的眼睛也似乎嵌在肿胀的肉里，因为下面的眼睑和眼袋都肿胀起来。似乎整个可怕的生物都充满了鲜血。他像一条肮脏的水蛭一样躺着，因吃饱而精疲力尽。

I shuddered as I bent over to touch him, and every sense in me revolted at the contact, but I had to search, or I was lost. The coming night might see my own body a banquet in a similar war to those horrid three. I felt all over the body, but no sign could I find of the key. Then I stopped and looked at the Count. There was a mocking smile on the bloated face which seemed to drive me mad. This was the being I was helping to transfer to London, where, perhaps, for centuries to come he might, amongst its teeming millions, satiate his lust for blood, and create a new and ever-widening circle of semi-demons to batten on the helpless.
当我弯腰去触碰他时，我浑身发抖，我体内的每一种感觉都对这种接触感到厌恶，但我必须寻找，否则我就会迷路。即将到来的夜晚，我可能会看到我自己的身体在一场与那三个可怕的人类似的战争中举行盛宴。我摸遍了全身，却找不到钥匙的踪迹。然后我停下来看着伯爵。浮肿的脸上挂着嘲讽的笑容，这似乎让我发疯。这就是我正在帮助转移到伦敦的存在，也许，在未来的几个世纪里，他可能会在数以百万计的人口中满足他对鲜血的渴望，并创造一个新的、不断扩大的半恶魔圈子来赖以生存。无助者。

The very thought drove me mad. A terrible desire came upon me to rid the world of such a monster. There was no lethal weapon at hand, but I seized a shovel which the workmen had been using to fill the cases, and lifting it high, struck, with the edge downward, at the hateful face. But as I did so the head turned, and the eyes fell upon me, with all their blaze of basilisk horror. The sight seemed to paralyze me, and the shovel turned in my hand and glanced from the face, merely making a deep gash above the forehead. The shovel fell from my hand across the box, and as I pulled it away the flange of the blade caught the edge of the lid which fell over again, and hid the horrid thing from my sight. The last glimpse I had was of the bloated face, blood-stained and fixed with a grin of malice which would have held its own in the nethermost hell.
这个想法让我发疯。我突然产生了一种可怕的愿望，想把这个怪物从世界上消灭掉。手边没有致命武器，但我抓起一把工人们用来装箱子的铲子，把它高高举起，刃口朝下，敲向那张可恶的脸。但当我这么做的时候，头转了过来，目光落在了我身上，眼神里闪烁着蛇怪般的恐惧。这景象似乎让我瘫痪了，铲子在我手中转动，从脸上扫过，只是在额头上划出一道深深的伤口。铲子从我手中滑过盒子，当我把它拉开时，刀片的凸缘卡住了盖子的边缘，盖子又倒了下来，把这个可怕的东西从我的视线中隐藏起来。我最后一眼看到的是那张浮肿的脸，血迹斑斑，脸上挂着一抹恶意的笑容，这种笑容在最底层的地狱里也不会出现。

I thought and thought what should be my next move, but my brain seemed on fire, and I waited with a despairing feeling growing over me. As I waited I heard in the distance a gipsy song sung by merry voices coming closer, and through their song the rolling of heavy wheels and the cracking of whips. The Szgany and the Slovaks of whom the Count had spoken were coming. With a last look around and at the box which contained the vile body, I ran from the place and gained the Count’s room, determined to rush out at the moment the door should be opened. With strained ears, I listened, and heard downstairs the grinding of the key in the great lock and the falling back of the heavy door. There must have been some other means of entry, or some one had a key for one of the locked doors.
我想了又想我的下一步应该做什么，但我的大脑似乎着火了，我等待着，一种绝望的感觉在我身上蔓延。当我等待时，我听到远处传来一首吉普赛歌曲，歌声越来越近，欢快的声音传来，透过他们的歌声，传来沉重车轮的滚动声和鞭子的噼啪声。伯爵提到的斯加尼人和斯洛伐克人即将到来。我最后看了一眼四周，看了一眼装着那具邪恶尸体的盒子，然后跑出了这个地方，来到了伯爵的房间，决定在门打开的那一刻冲出去。我竖起耳朵听，听到楼下钥匙插入大锁的摩擦声和沉重的门向后倒下的声音。一定有其他进入方式，或者有人拥有打开一扇上锁的门的钥匙。

Then there came the sound of many feet tramping and dying away in some passage which sent up a clanging echo. I turned to run down again towards the vault, where I might find the new entrance, but at the moment there seemed to come a violent puff of wind, and the door to the winding stair blew to with a shock that set the dust from the lintels flying. When I ran to push it open, I found that it was hopelessly fast. I was again a prisoner, and the net of doom was closing round me more closely.
紧接着，某个通道里传来许多脚步声，渐渐远去，发出铮铮的回声。我转身又朝金库跑去，在那里我可能会找到新的入口，但此时似乎刮起了一阵猛烈的风，蜿蜒楼梯的门被吹了起来，震得屋子里的灰尘都扬起来了。门楣飞扬。当我跑去推开它时，我发现它快得令人绝望。我又成了囚犯，厄运之网正在更加紧密地围住我。

As I write there is in the passage below a sound of many tramping feet and the crash of weights being set down heavily, doubtless the boxes, with their freight of earth. There was a sound of hammering. It is the box being nailed down. Now I can hear the heavy feet tramping again along the hall, with with many other idle feet coming behind them.
当我写下这篇文章时，下面的通道里传来了许多脚步声和重物被重重放下的碰撞声，毫无疑问是箱子，里面装满了泥土。传来一阵锤击声。这是被钉牢的盒子。现在我能听到沉重的脚步声再次沿着大厅踏出，身后还有许多其他闲置的脚步声。

The door is shut, the chains rattle. There is a grinding of the key in the lock. I can hear the key withdrawn, then another door opens and shuts. I hear the creaking of lock and bolt.
门关着，铁链嘎嘎作响。钥匙在锁里有磨擦声。我能听到钥匙被拔出的声音，然后另一扇门打开和关闭。我听到锁和插销的嘎吱声。

Hark! In the courtyard and down the rocky way the roll of heavy wheels, the crack of whips, and the chorus of the Szgany as they pass into the distance.
听着！院子里，沿着岩石小路，沉重的车轮滚动，鞭子劈啪作响，还有斯加尼人的合唱声传向远方。

I am alone in the castle with those horrible women. Faugh! Mina is a woman, and there is nought in common. They are devils of the Pit!
我独自一人在城堡里和那些可怕的女人在一起。呸！米娜是个女人，没有任何共同点。他们是深渊恶魔！

I shall not remain alone with them. I shall try to scale the castle wall farther than I have yet attempted. I shall take some of the gold with me, lest I want it later. I may find a way from this dreadful place.
我不会和他们单独呆在一起。我将尝试比我尝试过的更远的城堡墙。我会带走一些金子，免得我以后需要它。我也许能找到离开这个可怕地方的方法。

And then away for home! Away to the quickest and nearest train! Away from the cursed spot, from this cursed land, where the devil and his children still walk with earthly feet!
然后就回家了！前往最快、最近的火车！远离被诅咒的地方，远离这片被诅咒的土地，魔鬼和他的孩子们仍然用尘世的脚行走！

At least God’s mercy is better than that of those monsters, and the precipice is steep and high. At its foot a man may sleep, as a man. Goodbye, all. Mina!
至少上帝的怜悯比那些怪物要好，而且悬崖又陡又高。一个人可以睡在它的脚下，作为一个男人。再见，大家。米娜！

Chapter 5
第5章

LETTER FROM MISS MINA MURRAY TO MISS LUCY WESTENRA
米娜·默里小姐致露西·韦斯特拉小姐的信

9 May.
5 月 9 日。

My dearest Lucy,
我最亲爱的露西，

Forgive my long delay in writing, but I have been simply overwhelmed with work. The life of an assistant schoolmistress is sometimes trying. I am longing to be with you, and by the sea, where we can talk together freely and build our castles in the air. I have been working very hard lately, because I want to keep up with Jonathan’s studies, and I have been practicing shorthand very assiduously. When we are married I shall be able to be useful to Jonathan, and if I can stenograph well enough I can take down what he wants to say in this way and write it out for him on the typewriter, at which also I am practicing very hard.
请原谅我长时间拖延写作，但我只是被工作压垮了。助理女校长的生活有时很艰难。我渴望和你在一起，在海边，我们可以自由地交谈，建造我们的空中楼阁。我最近一直在努力学习，因为我想跟上乔纳森的学习，并且我一直在非常刻苦地练习速记。当我们结婚后，我将能够对乔纳森有用，如果我速记得足够好，我可以用这种方式记下他想说的话，并在打字机上为他写出来，这也是我正在练习的。难的。

He and I sometimes write letters in shorthand, and he is keeping a stenographic journal of his travels abroad. When I am with you I shall keep a diary in the same way. I don’t mean one of those two-pages-to-the-week-with-Sunday- squeezed-in-a-corner diaries, but a sort of journal which I can write in whenever I feel inclined.
我和他有时会速记写信，他会用速记记录他的出国旅行。当我和你在一起的时候，我也会以同样的方式写日记。我指的不是那种把星期天挤在角落里的两页日记，而是一种只要我愿意就可以写的日记。

I do not suppose there will be much of interest to other people, but it is not intended for them. I may show it to Jonathan some day if there is in it anything worth sharing, but it is really an exercise book. I shall try to do what I see lady journalists do, interviewing and writing descriptions and trying to remember conversations. I am told that, with a little practice, one can remember all that goes on or that one hears said during a day.
我不认为其他人会对此感兴趣，但这并不是为他们准备的。如果有一天我可能会把它拿给乔纳森看，如果里面有什么值得分享的话，但这实际上是一本练习册。我将尝试做我所看到的女记者所做的事情，采访和撰写描述并尝试记住对话。有人告诉我，只要稍加练习，一个人就能记住一天中发生的所有事情或听到的一切。

However, we shall see. I will tell you of my little plans when we meet. I have just had a few hurried lines from Jonathan from Transylvania. He is well, and will be returning in about a week. I am longing to hear all his news. It must be nice to see strange countries. I wonder if we, I mean Jonathan and I, shall ever see them together. There is the ten o’clock bell ringing. Goodbye.
然而，我们将会看到。当我们见面时我会告诉你我的小计划。我刚刚收到来自特兰西瓦尼亚的乔纳森的几条匆忙的电话。他身体很好，大约一周后就能回来。我渴望听到他的所有消息。看到陌生的国家一定很高兴。我想知道我们，我是指乔纳森和我，是否会看到他们在一起。十点钟的铃声响起。再见。

Your loving
你的爱

Mina
米娜

Tell me all the news when you write. You have not told me anything for a long time. I hear rumours, and especially of a tall, handsome, curly-haired man???
当你写信的时候告诉我所有的新闻。你已经很久没有告诉我任何事情了。我听到谣言，尤其是关于一个高大、英俊、卷发的男人？？？

LETTER, LUCY WESTENRA TO MINA MURRAY
露西·韦斯特拉 (Lucy Westenra) 致米娜·穆雷 (Mina Murray) 的信

17, Chatham Street
漆咸街17号

Wednesday
周三

My dearest Mina,
我最亲爱的米娜，

I must say you tax me very unfairly with being a bad correspondent. I wrote you twice since we parted, and your last letter was only your second. Besides, I have nothing to tell you. There is really nothing to interest you.
我必须说，你因为我是一个糟糕的记者而向我征税，这是非常不公平的。自从我们分手以来，我给你写了两次信，而你的最后一封信只是你的第二封信。除此之外，我没什么可告诉你的。确实没有什么能让你感兴趣的。

Town is very pleasant just now, and we go a great deal to picture-galleries and for walks and rides in the park. As to the tall, curly-haired man, I suppose it was the one who was with me at the last Pop. Someone has evidently been telling tales.
小镇现在非常宜人，我们经常去画廊，在公园里散步和骑车。至于那个高个子、卷发的男人，我想他就是上次流行音乐节上和我在一起的那个人。显然有人在讲故事。

That was Mr. Holmwood. He often comes to see us, and he and Mamma get on very well together, they have so many things to talk about in common.
那是霍姆伍德先生。他经常来看我们，他和妈妈相处得很好，有很多共同话题。

We met some time ago a man that would just do for you, if you were not already engaged to Jonathan. He is an excellent parti, being handsome, well off, and of good birth. He is a doctor and really clever. Just fancy! He is only nine-and twenty, and he has an immense lunatic asylum all under his own care. Mr. Holmwood introduced him to me, and he called here to see us, and often comes now. I think he is one of the most resolute men I ever saw, and yet the most calm. He seems absolutely imperturbable. I can fancy what a wonderful power he must have over his patients. He has a curious habit of looking one straight in the face, as if trying to read one’s thoughts. He tries this on very much with me, but I flatter myself he has got a tough nut to crack. I know that from my glass.
不久前我们遇到了一个男人，如果你还没有和乔纳森订婚的话，他会很适合你。他是一个优秀的党员，英俊、富有、出身良好。他是一名医生而且非常聪明。只是喜欢！他只有九岁和二十岁，却拥有一所巨大的疯人院，全由他自己照管。霍姆伍德先生把他介绍给我，他打电话来见我们，现在经常来。我认为他是我见过的最坚定的人之一，但也是最冷静的人。他看起来绝对泰然自若。我可以想象他对他的病人一定有多么奇妙的力量。他有一个奇怪的习惯，就是直视别人的脸，仿佛想读懂一个人的想法。他经常和我一起尝试这个，但我自以为他有一个棘手的难题需要解决。我从我的杯子里知道这一点。

Do you ever try to read your own face? I do, and I can tell you it is not a bad study, and gives you more trouble than you can well fancy if you have never tried it.
你有尝试过读懂自己的脸吗？我愿意，而且我可以告诉你，这不是一项糟糕的研究，如果你从未尝试过，它会给你带来的麻烦比你想象的还要多。

He says that I afford him a curious psychological study, and I humbly think I do. I do not, as you know, take sufficient interest in dress to be able to describe the new fashions. Dress is a bore. That is slang again, but never mind. Arthur says that every day.
他说我为他提供了一项有趣的心理学研究，我谦虚地认为我确实这么做了。如你所知，我对服装没有足够的兴趣来描述新时尚。衣服很无聊。这又是俚语，不过没关系。亚瑟每天都这么说。

There, it is all out, Mina, we have told all our secrets to each other since we were children. We have slept together and eaten together, and laughed and cried together, and now, though I have spoken, I would like to speak more. Oh, Mina, couldn’t you guess? I love him. I am blushing as I write, for although I think he loves me, he has not told me so in words. But, oh, Mina, I love him. I love him! There, that does me good.
一切都结束了，米娜，我们从小就互相告诉对方所有的秘密。我们一起睡，一起吃饭，一起笑，一起哭，现在，虽然我已经说过了，但我还想再说更多。哦，米娜，你猜不出来吗？我爱他。我写的时候脸红了，因为虽然我认为他爱我，但他没有用语言告诉我。但是，哦，米娜，我爱他。我爱他！在那里，这对我有好处。

I wish I were with you, dear, sitting by the fire undressing, as we used to sit, and I would try to tell you what I feel. I do not know how I am writing this even to you. I am afraid to stop, or I should tear up the letter, and I don’t want to stop, for I do so want to tell you all. Let me hear from you at once, and tell me all that you think about it. Mina, pray for my happiness.
我希望我能和你在一起，亲爱的，坐在火边脱衣服，就像我们以前那样，我会尽力告诉你我的感受。我什至不知道我是如何给你写这封信的。我害怕停下来，否则我应该把信撕掉，而我也不想停下来，因为我真的很想告诉你们一切。请立即让我收到您的来信，并告诉我您的所有想法。米娜，为我的幸福祈祷吧。

Lucy
露西

P.S.—I need not tell you this is a secret. Goodnight again. L.
P.S.——我不需要告诉你这是一个秘密。再次晚安。 L。

LETTER, LUCY WESTENRA TO MINA MURRAY
露西·韦斯特拉 (Lucy Westenra) 致米娜·穆雷 (Mina Murray) 的信

24 May
5月24日

My dearest Mina,
我最亲爱的米娜，

Thanks, and thanks, and thanks again for your sweet letter. It was so nice to be able to tell you and to have your sympathy.
谢谢，谢谢，再次感谢你的甜蜜来信。很高兴能够告诉你并得到你的同情。

My dear, it never rains but it pours. How true the old proverbs are. Here am I, who shall be twenty in September, and yet I never had a proposal till today, not a real proposal, and today I had three. Just fancy! Three proposals in one day! Isn’t it awful! I feel sorry, really and truly sorry, for two of the poor fellows. Oh, Mina, I am so happy that I don’t know what to do with myself. And three proposals! But, for goodness’ sake, don’t tell any of the girls, or they would be getting all sorts of extravagant ideas, and imagining themselves injured and slighted if in their very first day at home they did not get six at least. Some girls are so vain! You and I, Mina dear, who are engaged and are going to settle down soon soberly into old married women, can despise vanity. Well, I must tell you about the three, but you must keep it a secret, dear, from every one except, of course, Jonathan. You will tell him, because I would, if I were in your place, certainly tell Arthur. A woman ought to tell her husband everything. Don’t you think so, dear? And I must be fair. Men like women, certainly their wives, to be quite as fair as they are. And women, I am afraid, are not always quite as fair as they should be.
亲爱的，从来不下雨，但倾盆大雨。古老的谚语是多么正确。我到了九月就满二十岁了，但直到今天我才提出过求婚，不是真正的求婚，而今天我有了三个。只是喜欢！一日三提案！是不是很糟糕！我为这两个可怜的家伙感到抱歉，真的很抱歉。哦，米娜，我太高兴了，我不知道该怎么办。以及三项建议！但是，看在上帝的份上，不要告诉任何一个女孩，否则她们会产生各种奢侈的想法，并想象自己受伤和被轻视，如果在回家的第一天她们至少没有得到六个。有些女孩子真是太虚荣了！你和我，亲爱的米娜，已经订婚了，很快就会清醒地成为已婚妇女，可以鄙视虚荣心。好吧，我必须告诉你关于这三个人的事，但是亲爱的，你必须对所有人保守秘密，当然，乔纳森除外。你会告诉他，因为如果我处于你的位置，我肯定会告诉亚瑟。女人应该把一切都告诉她的丈夫。亲爱的，你不这么认为吗？我必须公平。男人喜欢女人，当然是他们的妻子，因为她们是公平的。恐怕女性并不总是像她们应有的那样公平。

Well, my dear, number One came just before lunch. I told you of him, Dr. John Seward, the lunatic asylum man, with the strong jaw and the good forehead. He was very cool outwardly, but was nervous all the same. He had evidently been schooling himself as to all sorts of little things, and remembered them, but he almost managed to sit down on his silk hat, which men don’t generally do when they are cool, and then when he wanted to appear at ease he kept playing with a lancet in a way that made me nearly scream. He spoke to me, Mina, very straightforwardly. He told me how dear I was to him, though he had known me so little, and what his life would be with me to help and cheer him. He was going to tell me how unhappy he would be if I did not care for him, but when he saw me cry he said he was a brute and would not add to my present trouble. Then he broke off and asked if I could love him in time, and when I shook my head his hands trembled, and then with some hesitation he asked me if I cared already for any one else. He put it very nicely, saying that he did not want to wring my confidence from me, but only to know, because if a woman’s heart was free a man might have hope. And then, Mina, I felt a sort of duty to tell him that there was some one. I only told him that much, and then he stood up, and he looked very strong and very grave as he took both my hands in his and said he hoped I would be happy, and that If I ever wanted a friend I must count him one of my best.
好吧，亲爱的，第一号就在午饭前到来了。我跟你讲过他，约翰·苏厄德医生，那个疯人院的人，有着强壮的下巴和漂亮的前额。他表面上很冷静，但内心却很紧张。显然，他一直在训练自己各种小事情，并记住了它们，但他几乎设法坐在了他的丝绸帽子上，男人在很酷的时候通常不会这样做，然后当他想出现在他轻松地摆弄着刺血针，让我差点尖叫起来。他非常直率地对我米娜说话。他告诉我，尽管他对我知之甚少，但我对他有多亲爱，以及如果我能帮助他、为他加油，他的生活将会怎样。他本想告诉我，如果我不关心他，他会多么不高兴，但当他看到我哭时，他说他是个畜生，不会增加我现在的麻烦。然后他停了下来，问我是否能及时爱他，当我摇摇头时，他的手颤抖着，然后他犹豫了一下问我是否已经在乎别人了。他说得很好，说他不想夺走我的信心，只是想知道，因为如果女人的心是自由的，男人也许会有希望。然后，米娜，我觉得有责任告诉他有一个人。我只告诉了他这么多，然后他站了起来，他看起来非常坚强，非常严肃，他握住我的双手，说他希望我幸福，如果我想要一个朋友，我必须把他算上我最好的之一。

Oh, Mina dear, I can’t help crying, and you must excuse this letter being all blotted. Being proposed to is all very nice and all that sort of thing, but it isn’t at all a happy thing when you have to see a poor fellow, whom you know loves you honestly, going away and looking all broken hearted, and to know that, no matter what he may say at the moment, you are passing out of his life. My dear, I must stop here at present, I feel so miserable, though I am so happy.
哦，亲爱的米娜，我忍不住哭了，你必须原谅这封信被弄脏了。被求婚是一件非常美好的事情，但是当你看到一个可怜的人，你知道他真诚地爱着你，却一脸心碎地离开时，这根本不是一件快乐的事情。要知道，无论他此刻说什么，你都会从他的生活中消失。亲爱的，我现在必须停在这里了，我感到很痛苦，尽管我很高兴。

Evening.
晚上。

Arthur has just gone, and I feel in better spirits than when I left off, so I can go on telling you about the day.
亚瑟刚刚走了，我感觉比我离开时精神好多了，所以我可以继续向你讲述这一天的情况。

Well, my dear, number Two came after lunch. He is such a nice fellow, an American from Texas, and he looks so young and so fresh that it seems almost impossible that he has been to so many places and has such adventures. I sympathize with poor Desdemona when she had such a stream poured in her ear, even by a black man. I suppose that we women are such cowards that we think a man will save us from fears, and we marry him. I know now what I would do if I were a man and wanted to make a girl love me. No, I don’t, for there was Mr. Morris telling us his stories, and Arthur never told any, and yet …
好吧，亲爱的，第二号是午饭后来的。他是一个非常好的小伙子，来自得克萨斯州的美国人，他看起来那么年轻，那么新鲜，以至于他几乎不可能去过那么多地方，经历过那么多冒险。我同情可怜的苔丝狄蒙娜，当她的耳朵里涌入这样的溪流时，甚至是一个黑人。我想我们女人都是胆小鬼，以为一个男人会把我们从恐惧中拯救出来，然后我们就嫁给了他。我现在知道如果我是一个男人并且想让一个女孩爱我我会做什么。不，我不知道，因为莫里斯先生给我们讲了他的故事，而亚瑟从未告诉过任何故事，然而……

My dear, I am somewhat previous. Mr. Quincy P. Morris found me alone. It seems that a man always does find a girl alone. No, he doesn’t, for Arthur tried twice to make a chance, and I helping him all I could, I am not ashamed to say it now. I must tell you beforehand that Mr. Morris doesn’t always speak slang, that is to say, he never does so to strangers or before them, for he is really well educated and has exquisite manners, but he found out that it amused me to hear him talk American slang, and whenever I was present, and there was no one to be shocked, he said such funny things. I am afraid, my dear, he has to invent it all, for it fits exactly into whatever else he has to say. But this is a way slang has. I do not know myself if I shall ever speak slang. I do not know if Arthur likes it, as I have never heard him use any as yet.
亲爱的，我有点前辈了。昆西·P·莫里斯先生发现我孤身一人。看来男人总是会单独找一个女孩。不，他没有，因为亚瑟两次尝试创造机会，而我尽我所能帮助他，我现在不羞于说出来。我必须事先告诉你，莫里斯先生并不总是说俚语，也就是说，他从来不对陌生人或在他们面前说俚语，因为他确实受过良好的教育，举止也很精致，但他发现这让我觉得好笑。听他说美国俚语，每当我在场时，他都会说一些有趣的话，没有人感到惊讶。我担心，亲爱的，他必须发明这一切，因为这完全符合他要说的其他一切。但这是俚语的一种方式。我不知道自己是否会说俚语。我不知道亚瑟是否喜欢它，因为我还从未听说他使用过任何东西。

Well, Mr. Morris sat down beside me and looked as happy and jolly as he could, but I could see all the same that he was very nervous. He took my hand in his, and said ever so sweetly …
嗯，莫里斯先生坐在我旁边，看上去尽可能地高兴和快乐，但我仍然可以看出他非常紧张。他握住我的手，温柔地说……

‘Miss Lucy, I know I ain’t good enough to regulate the fixin’s of your little shoes, but I guess if you wait till you find a man that is you will go join them seven young women with the lamps when you quit. Won’t you just hitch up alongside of me and let us go down the long road together, driving in double harness?’
“露西小姐，我知道我不够好，无法调节你小鞋子的固定，但我想，如果你等到找到一个男人，那么当你退出时，你就会和他们一起去加入七个拿着灯的年轻女人。你愿意搭便车和我并肩，让我们一起走上漫长的道路，用双安全带开车吗？

Well, he did look so good humoured and so jolly that it didn’t seem half so hard to refuse him as it did poor Dr. Seward. So I said, as lightly as I could, that I did not know anything of hitching, and that I wasn’t broken to harness at all yet. Then he said that he had spoken in a light manner, and he hoped that if he had made a mistake in doing so on so grave, so momentous, and occasion for him, I would forgive him. He really did look serious when he was saying it, and I couldn’t help feeling a sort of exultation that he was number Two in one day. And then, my dear, before I could say a word he began pouring out a perfect torrent of love-making, laying his very heart and soul at my feet. He looked so earnest over it that I shall never again think that a man must be playful always, and never earnest, because he is merry at times. I suppose he saw something in my face which checked him, for he suddenly stopped, and said with a sort of manly fervour that I could have loved him for if I had been free …
嗯，他看起来确实很幽默，很快乐，拒绝他似乎并不像拒绝可怜的苏厄德医生那么难。所以我尽可能轻描淡写地说，我对搭便车一无所知，而且我还没有完全被束缚。然后他说他说话很轻松，他希望如果他在如此严重、如此重大、如此场合犯了错误，我会原谅他。他说这话的时候看起来确实很严肃，我不禁感到一种欣喜若狂，因为他一天之内​​就成为了第二名。然后，亲爱的，在我能说一句话之前，他就开始倾注出完美的爱的洪流，将他的心和灵魂放在我的脚下。他看起来很认真，我再也不会认为一个人必须总是嬉戏，而不是认真，因为他有时很快乐。我想他在我脸上看到了某种东西，这让他感到惊讶，因为他突然停了下来，并以一种男子气概的热情说，如果我是自由的，我可能会爱他……

‘Lucy, you are an honest hearted girl, I know. I should not be here speaking to you as I am now if I did not believe you clean grit, right through to the very depths of your soul. Tell me, like one good fellow to another, is there any one else that you care for? And if there is I’ll never trouble you a hair’s breadth again, but will be, if you will let me, a very faithful friend.’
“露西，我知道你是一个诚实的女孩。如果我不相信你的勇气直达你灵魂的最深处，我就不应该像现在这样在这里对你说话。告诉我，就像一个好人对待另一个好人一样，你还关心其他人吗？如果有的话，我再也不会打扰你了，但如果你愿意的话，我会成为一个非常忠实的朋友。

My dear Mina, why are men so noble when we women are so little worthy of them? Here was I almost making fun of this great hearted, true gentleman. I burst into tears, I am afraid, my dear, you will think this a very sloppy letter in more ways than one, and I really felt very badly.
亲爱的米娜，为什么男人如此高贵，而我们女人却配不上他们？说到这里，我几乎要取笑这位心地善良、真正的绅士了。我泪流满面，我担心，亲爱的，你会认为这是一封在很多方面都很草率的信，我真的感觉很糟糕。

Why can’t they let a girl marry three men, or as many as want her, and save all this trouble? But this is heresy, and I must not say it. I am glad to say that, though I was crying, I was able to look into Mr. Morris’ brave eyes, and I told him out straight …
为什么他们不能让一个女孩嫁给三个男人，或者想要嫁给多少个男人，就省去所有这些麻烦？但这是异端邪说，我不能这么说。我很高兴地说，虽然我在哭，但我能够看着莫里斯先生勇敢的眼睛，我直接告诉他……

‘Yes, there is some one I love, though he has not told me yet that he even loves me.’ I was right to speak to him so frankly, for quite a light came into his face, and he put out both his hands and took mine, I think I put them into his, and said in a hearty way …
“是的，有一个我爱的人，虽然他还没有告诉我他甚至爱我。”我如此坦白地对他说话是对的，因为他的脸上露出了光芒，他伸出了双手并把我的，我想我把它们放进他的，并衷心地说......

‘That’s my brave girl. It’s better worth being late for a chance of winning you than being in time for any other girl in the world. Don’t cry, my dear. If it’s for me, I’m a hard nut to crack, and I take it standing up. If that other fellow doesn’t know his happiness, well, he’d better look for it soon, or he’ll have to deal with me. Little girl, your honesty and pluck have made me a friend, and that’s rarer than a lover, it’s more selfish anyhow. My dear, I’m going to have a pretty lonely walk between this and Kingdom Come. Won’t you give me one kiss? It’ll be something to keep off the darkness now and then. You can, you know, if you like, for that other good fellow, or you could not love him, hasn’t spoken yet.’
‘那是我勇敢的女孩。为了赢得你的机会而迟到比及时赶上世界上任何其他女孩更值得。别哭，亲爱的。如果是对我来说，我就是一个难以破解的难题，我会站起来接受它。如果那个家伙不知道他的幸福，那么，他最好尽快寻找它，否则他就得对付我了。小姑娘，你的诚实和勇气让我成为了朋友，这比情人还难得，反正更自私。亲爱的，在这一切和天国来临之间，我将有一段相当孤独的行走。你不肯给我一个吻吗？它会时不时地驱散黑暗。你可以，你知道，如果你愿意的话，因为另一个好人，或者你不能爱他，还没有说话。

That quite won me, Mina, for it was brave and sweet of him, and noble too, to a rival, wasn’t it? And he so sad, so I leant over and kissed him.
这让我很感动，米娜，因为他勇敢又可爱，对于对手来说也很高贵，不是吗？他很伤心，所以我俯身吻了他。

He stood up with my two hands in his, and as he looked down into my face, I am afraid I was blushing very much, he said, ‘Little girl, I hold your hand, and you’ve kissed me, and if these things don’t make us friends nothing ever will. Thank you for your sweet honesty to me, and goodbye.’
他站起来，握住我的两只手，当他低头看着我的脸时，恐怕我脸红得很厉害，他说，‘小女孩，我握着你的手，你吻了我，如果这些事物不会让我们成为朋友，没有什么能让我们成为朋友。谢谢你对我的甜蜜诚实，再见。”

He wrung my hand, and taking up his hat, went straight out of the room without looking back, without a tear or a quiver or a pause, and I am crying like a baby.
他握紧我的手，拿起帽子，径直走出房间，头也不回，没有流泪，没有颤抖，也没有停顿，我哭得像个婴儿。

Oh, why must a man like that be made unhappy when there are lots of girls about who would worship the very ground he trod on? I know I would if I were free, only I don’t want to be free. My dear, this quite upset me, and I feel I cannot write of happiness just at once, after telling you of it, and I don’t wish to tell of the number Three until it can be all happy. Ever your loving …
哦，当有很多女孩崇拜他所踏过的土地时，为什么这样的男人一定会不高兴呢？我知道如果我自由的话我会的，只是我不想自由。亲爱的，这让我很不高兴，在告诉你之后，我觉得我不能立刻写出幸福，而且我不想告诉数字“三”，直到它完全幸福为止。曾经是你的挚爱……

Lucy
露西

P.S.—Oh, about number Three, I needn’t tell you of number Three, need I? Besides, it was all so confused. It seemed only a moment from his coming into the room till both his arms were round me, and he was kissing me. I am very, very happy, and I don’t know what I have done to deserve it. I must only try in the future to show that I am not ungrateful to God for all His goodness to me in sending to me such a lover, such a husband, and such a friend.
P.S.——哦，关于第三点，我不需要告诉你第三点，不是吗？而且，一切都是那么的混乱。从他走进房间到他用双臂搂住我、亲吻我，似乎只是一瞬间的事。我非常非常高兴，我不知道我做了什么值得如此。我必须在未来努力表明，我并非忘恩负义，感谢上帝对我的良善，赐予我这样一个爱人、这样一个丈夫、这样一个朋友。

Goodbye.
再见。

DR. SEWARD’S DIARY (Kept in phonograph)
博士。苏厄德的日记（保存在留声机中）

25 May.—Ebb tide in appetite today. Cannot eat, cannot rest, so diary instead. Since my rebuff of yesterday I have a sort of empty feeling. Nothing in the world seems of sufficient importance to be worth the doing. As I knew that the only cure for this sort of thing was work, I went amongst the patients. I picked out one who has afforded me a study of much interest. He is so quaint that I am determined to understand him as well as I can. Today I seemed to get nearer than ever before to the heart of his mystery.
5 月 25 日——今天食欲下降。不能吃饭，不能休息，所以只能写日记。自从昨天的拒绝之后，我有一种空虚的感觉。世界上似乎没有什么事情足够重要，值得去做。因为我知道解决这种问题的唯一方法就是工作，所以我走进了病人之中。我挑选了一个让我非常感兴趣的研究对象。他是如此古怪，我决心尽可能地了解他。今天我似乎比以往任何时候都更接近他的谜团的核心。

I questioned him more fully than I had ever done, with a view to making myself master of the facts of his hallucination. In my manner of doing it there was, I now see, something of cruelty. I seemed to wish to keep him to the point of his madness, a thing which I avoid with the patients as I would the mouth of hell.
我比以往任何时候都更全面地询问他，以便让自己掌握他幻觉的事实。我现在发现，我的做法有些残忍。我似乎想让他一直处于疯狂的状态，这是我对待病人时避免的事情，就像我避免进入地狱之口一样。

(Mem., Under what circumstances would I not avoid the pit of hell?) Omnia Romae venalia sunt. Hell has its price! If there be anything behind this instinct it will be valuable to trace it afterwards accurately, so I had better commence to do so, therefore …
（回忆一下，在什么情况下我不会避免地狱深渊？） Omnia Romae venalia sunt。地狱是有它的代价的！如果这种本能背后有什么东西的话，那么事后准确地追踪它将会很有价值，所以我最好开始这样做，因此……

R. M, Renfield, age 59. Sanguine temperament, great physical strength, morbidly excitable, periods of gloom, ending in some fixed idea which I cannot make out. I presume that the sanguine temperament itself and the disturbing influence end in a mentally-accomplished finish, a possibly dangerous man, probably dangerous if unselfish. In selfish men caution is as secure an armour for their foes as for themselves. What I think of on this point is, when self is the fixed point the centripetal force is balanced with the centrifugal. When duty, a cause, etc., is the fixed point, the latter force is paramount, and only accident or a series of accidents can balance it.
R.M，伦菲尔德，59岁。性情乐观，体力充沛，异常兴奋，时而忧郁，最后以某种我无法理解的固定想法结束。我认为乐观的气质本身和令人不安的影响最终会在精神上取得成就，成为一个可能危险的人，如果无私的话可能很危险。对于自私的人来说，谨慎对于他们的敌人和他们自己来说都是安全的盔甲。关于这一点我的想法是，当自身为不动点时，向心力与离心力平衡。当职责、原因等为固定点时，后者的力量是至高无上的，只有事故或一系列事故才能平衡它。

LETTER, QUINCEY P. MORRIS TO HON. ARTHUR HOLMOOD
昆西·P·莫里斯致阁下的信阿瑟·霍尔穆德

25 May.
5 月 25 日。

My dear Art,
我亲爱的艺术，

We’ve told yarns by the campfire in the prairies, and dressed one another’s wounds after trying a landing at the Marquesas, and drunk healths on the shore of Titicaca. There are more yarns to be told, and other wounds to be healed, and another health to be drunk. Won’t you let this be at my campfire tomorrow night? I have no hesitation in asking you, as I know a certain lady is engaged to a certain dinner party, and that you are free. There will only be one other, our old pal at the Korea, Jack Seward. He’s coming, too, and we both want to mingle our weeps over the wine cup, and to drink a health with all our hearts to the happiest man in all the wide world, who has won the noblest heart that God has made and best worth winning. We promise you a hearty welcome, and a loving greeting, and a health as true as your own right hand. We shall both swear to leave you at home if you drink too deep to a certain pair of eyes. Come!
我们在大草原的篝火旁讲述过故事，在尝试登陆马克萨斯群岛后为彼此包扎伤口，在的的喀喀海岸喝醉了健康。还有更多的故事要讲，还有更多的伤口要治愈，还有更多的健康要喝。明天晚上你不让它在我的篝火旁吗？我毫不犹豫地问你，因为我知道某位女士已订婚参加某个晚宴，而你有空。只有另外一个人，我们在韩国的老朋友，杰克苏厄德。他也来了，我们都想对着酒杯流泪，全心全意地为这个世界上最幸福的人干杯，他赢得了上帝创造的最高尚的心和最有价值的心。获胜。我们向您保证热烈的欢迎、充满爱意的问候以及您右手般的健康。如果你喝得太深，让某双眼睛不舒服，我们都发誓把你留在家里。来！

Yours, as ever and always,
你的，一如既往，

Quincey P. Morris
昆西·莫里斯

TELEGRAM FROM ARTHUR HOLMWOOD TO QUINCEY P. MORRIS
阿瑟·霍姆伍德致昆西·P·莫里斯的电报

26 May
5月26日

Count me in every time. I bear messages which will make both your ears tingle.
每次都算我一个。我传递的信息会让你们双耳发麻。

Art
艺术

Chapter 6
第6章

MINA MURRAY’S JOURNAL
米娜·默里的日记

24 July. Whitby.—Lucy met me at the station, looking sweeter and lovelier than ever, and we drove up to the house at the Crescent in which they have rooms. This is a lovely place. The little river, the Esk, runs through a deep valley, which broadens out as it comes near the harbour. A great viaduct runs across, with high piers, through which the view seems somehow further away than it really is. The valley is beautifully green, and it is so steep that when you are on the high land on either side you look right across it, unless you are near enough to see down. The houses of the old town—the side away from us, are all red-roofed, and seem piled up one over the other anyhow, like the pictures we see of Nuremberg. Right over the town is the ruin of Whitby Abbey, which was sacked by the Danes, and which is the scene of part of ‘Marmion,’ where the girl was built up in the wall. It is a most noble ruin, of immense size, and full of beautiful and romantic bits. There is a legend that a white lady is seen in one of the windows. Between it and the town there is another church, the parish one, round which is a big graveyard, all full of tombstones. This is to my mind the nicest spot in Whitby, for it lies right over the town, and has a full view of the harbour and all up the bay to where the headland called Kettleness stretches out into the sea. It descends so steeply over the harbour that part of the bank has fallen away, and some of the graves have been destroyed.
7 月 24 日。惠特比。——露西在车站遇见了我，她看起来比以前更加甜美可爱，我们开车前往位于新月区的房子，那里有他们的房间。这是一个可爱的地方。埃斯克河 (Esk) 这条小河流经一个深谷，越靠近港口越宽阔。一座巨大的高架桥横贯而过，桥墩很高，透过高架桥看到的景色似乎比实际距离更远。山谷呈美丽的绿色，而且非常陡峭，当你站在两侧的高地上时，你只能看到对面的山谷，除非你离得足够近，可以看到下面。老城区的房子，远离我们的一侧，都是红顶的，反正看起来一层一层地堆起来，就像我们看到的纽伦堡的照片一样。小镇的正上方是惠特比修道院的废墟，该修道院被丹麦人洗劫一空，也是“Marmion”的一部分场景，女孩被建在墙上。这是一处最高贵的废墟，规模巨大，充满了美丽和浪漫的元素。有一个传说，在其中一扇窗户里看到了一位白人女士。在它和城镇之间还有另一座教堂，就是教区教堂，教堂周围是一个大墓地，到处都是墓碑。在我看来，这是惠特比最好的地方，因为它就在小镇上方，可以看到海港和整个海湾的全景，一直到称为凯特内斯的岬角一直延伸到大海。它在港口上方陡峭地下降，以至于部分河岸已经塌陷，一些坟墓也被毁坏了。

In one place part of the stonework of the graves stretches out over the sandy pathway far below. There are walks, with seats beside them, through the churchyard, and people go and sit there all day long looking at the beautiful view and enjoying the breeze.
在一处地方，坟墓的部分石雕延伸到下面远处的沙质小路上。墓地里有步道，旁边有座位，人们整天坐在那里，欣赏美丽的景色，享受微风。

I shall come and sit here often myself and work. Indeed, I am writing now, with my book on my knee, and listening to the talk of three old men who are sitting beside me. They seem to do nothing all day but sit here and talk.
我会经常亲自坐在这里工作。确实，我现在正在写作，书放在膝上，听着坐在我旁边的三位老人的谈话。他们似乎整天什么也不做，只是坐在这里聊天。

The harbour lies below me, with, on the far side, one long granite wall stretching out into the sea, with a curve outwards at the end of it, in the middle of which is a lighthouse. A heavy seawall runs along outside of it. On the near side, the seawall makes an elbow crooked inversely, and its end too has a lighthouse. Between the two piers there is a narrow opening into the harbour, which then suddenly widens.
港口就在我的下方，远处有一堵长长的花岗岩墙伸入大海，墙的末端有一条向外的弧线，墙的中间是一座灯塔。一座厚重的海堤沿着它的外面延伸。近侧的海堤呈反弯状，末端也有一座灯塔。两个码头之间有一个通往港口的狭窄开口，然后突然变宽。

It is nice at high water, but when the tide is out it shoals away to nothing, and there is merely the stream of the Esk, running between banks of sand, with rocks here and there. Outside the harbour on this side there rises for about half a mile a great reef, the sharp of which runs straight out from behind the south lighthouse. At the end of it is a buoy with a bell, which swings in bad weather, and sends in a mournful sound on the wind.
高水位时这里很漂亮，但退潮时，它就消失得无影无踪，只有埃斯克河在沙岸之间流过，到处都是岩石。港口外的这一侧，有一座高约半英里的大礁石，礁石的尖角从南灯塔后面笔直延伸出来。末端有一个浮标，上面有一个铃铛，天气不好时，它会摇晃，随风发出凄厉的声音。

They have a legend here that when a ship is lost bells are heard out at sea. I must ask the old man about this. He is coming this way …
这里有一个传说，当一艘船迷路时，海上就会听到钟声。这件事我得问问老头子。他正朝这边过来……

He is a funny old man. He must be awfully old, for his face is gnarled and twisted like the bark of a tree. He tells me that he is nearly a hundred, and that he was a sailor in the Greenland fishing fleet when Waterloo was fought. He is, I am afraid, a very sceptical person, for when I asked him about the bells at sea and the White Lady at the abbey he said very brusquely,
他是一个有趣的老人。他一定很老了，因为他的脸像树皮一样粗糙扭曲。他告诉我，他已经快一百岁了，滑铁卢战役时他是格陵兰渔船队的一名水手。我担心他是一个非常多疑的人，因为当我问他关于海上的钟声和修道院的白女士时，他非常粗暴地说道：

‘I wouldn’t fash masel’ about them, miss. Them things be all wore out. Mind, I don’t say that they never was, but I do say that they wasn’t in my time. They be all very well for comers and trippers, an’ the like, but not for a nice young lady like you. Them feet-folks from York and Leeds that be always eatin’ cured herrin’s and drinkin’ tea an’ lookin’ out to buy cheap jet would creed aught. I wonder masel’ who’d be bothered tellin’ lies to them, even the newspapers, which is full of fool-talk.’
“我不会对他们大肆渲染”，小姐。这些东西都破旧了。请注意，我并不是说他们从来没有出现过，但我确实说他们不在我的时代。它们对于来访者和旅行者等来说都很好，但不适合像你这样的漂亮年轻女士。这些来自约克和利兹的脚人们总是吃着治疗赫林氏病、喝着茶、寻找着购买廉价飞机的信条。我想知道马塞尔谁会费心对他们撒谎，甚至是报纸，报纸上充斥着愚蠢的言论。

I thought he would be a good person to learn interesting things from, so I asked him if he would mind telling me something about the whale fishing in the old days. He was just settling himself to begin when the clock struck six, whereupon he laboured to get up, and said,
我觉得他是一个可以学到有趣东西的好人，所以我问他是否介意告诉我一些关于过去捕鲸的事情。他正准备开始，时钟敲响了六点，他费力地站了起来，说道：

‘I must gang ageeanwards home now, miss. My grand-daughter doesn’t like to be kept waitin’ when the tea is ready, for it takes me time to crammle aboon the grees, for there be a many of ‘em, and miss, I lack belly-timber sairly by the clock.’
“我现在必须一起回家了，小姐。我的孙女不喜欢在茶煮好后一直等待，因为我需要花时间来填满蔬菜，因为那里有很多蔬菜，小姐，我的肚子很紧。钟。'

He hobbled away, and I could see him hurrying, as well as he could, down the steps. The steps are a great feature on the place. They lead from the town to the church, there are hundreds of them, I do not know how many, and they wind up in a delicate curve. The slope is so gentle that a horse could easily walk up and down them.
他一瘸一拐地走开，我可以看到他尽其所能地匆匆走下台阶。台阶是这个地方的一大特色。它们从城镇通向教堂，有数百条，不知有多少条，最后形成一条微妙的曲线。斜坡很平缓，马可以轻松地在上面走来走去。

I think they must originally have had something to do with the abbey. I shall go home too. Lucy went out, visiting with her mother, and as they were only duty calls, I did not go.
我想他们最初一定和修道院有什么关系。我也该回家了。露西出去探望她的母亲，因为他们只是值班，所以我没有去。

1 August.—I came up here an hour ago with Lucy, and we had a most interesting talk with my old friend and the two others who always come and join him. He is evidently the Sir Oracle of them, and I should think must have been in his time a most dictatorial person.
8 月 1 日——一小时前我和露西来到这里，我们和我的老朋友以及经常来和他一起的另外两个人进行了一次非常有趣的谈话。他显然是他们中的神谕爵士，我想他一定是他那个时代最独裁的人。

He will not admit anything, and down faces everybody. If he can’t out-argue them he bullies them, and then takes their silence for agreement with his views.
他不会承认任何事情，低着头面对所有人。如果他无法与他们争论，他就会欺负他们，然后以他们的沉默来表示同意他的观点。

Lucy was looking sweetly pretty in her white lawn frock. She has got a beautiful colour since she has been here.
露西穿着白色的草坪连衣裙，看起来甜美漂亮。自从她来到这里以来，她的肤色就很美丽。

I noticed that the old men did not lose any time in coming and sitting near her when we sat down. She is so sweet with old people, I think they all fell in love with her on the spot. Even my old man succumbed and did not contradict her, but gave me double share instead. I got him on the subject of the legends, and he went off at once into a sort of sermon. I must try to remember it and put it down.
我注意到，当我们坐下时，老人们不失时机地过来坐在她身边。她对老人非常友善，我想他们都立刻爱上了她。就连我老人家也屈服了，没有反驳她，反而给了我双倍的份额。我向他介绍了传说的主题，他立即开始进行某种布道。我必须努力记住它并放下它。

‘It be all fool-talk, lock, stock, and barrel, that’s what it be and nowt else. These bans an’ wafts an’ boh-ghosts an’ bar-guests an’ bogles an’ all anent them is only fit to set bairns an’ dizzy women a’belderin’. They be nowt but air-blebs. They, an’ all grims an’ signs an’ warnin’s, be all invented by parsons an’ illsome berk-bodies an’ railway touters to skeer an’ scunner hafflin’s, an’ to get folks to do somethin’ that they don’t other incline to. It makes me ireful to think o’ them. Why, it’s them that, not content with printin’ lies on paper an’ preachin’ them out of pulpits, does want to be cuttin’ them on the tombstones. Look here all around you in what airt ye will. All them steans, holdin’ up their heads as well as they can out of their pride, is acant, simply tumblin’ down with the weight o’ the lies wrote on them, ‘Here lies the body’ or ‘Sacred to the memory’ wrote on all of them, an’ yet in nigh half of them there bean’t no bodies at all, an’ the memories of them bean’t cared a pinch of snuff about, much less sacred. Lies all of them, nothin’ but lies of one kind or another! My gog, but it’ll be a quare scowderment at the Day of Judgment when they come tumblin’ up in their death-sarks, all jouped together an’ trying’ to drag their tombsteans with them to prove how good they was, some of them trimmlin’ an’ dithering, with their hands that dozzened an’ slippery from lyin’ in the sea that they can’t even keep their gurp o’ them.’
“这一切都是傻话，锁、枪托和枪管，就是这样，而不是别的。”这些禁令、飘荡、鬼魂、酒吧客人和令人惊叹的一切都只适合让婴儿和头晕的女人变得“贝尔德林”。它们现在只不过是气泡。它们，以及所有的冷酷的、标志和警告，都是由牧师、病态的傻子和铁路兜售者发明的，目的是为了欺骗和狡猾的哈夫林，并让人们做一些他们不做的事情倾向于.一想到他们我就很生气。为什么，是他们不满足于将谎言印在纸上并在讲坛上宣讲它们，而是想将它们刻在墓碑上。以什么样的态度来观察你周围的一切。所有这些斯坦斯，出于他们的骄傲而竭尽全力抬起头，却是心不在焉，只是因为写在他们身上的谎言的重量而倒下，“这里躺着尸体”或“神圣的记忆”写在所有的人身上，然而其中近一半根本没有尸体，关于他们的记忆根本不关心一点鼻烟，更不用说神圣了。全部都是谎言，只不过是这样或那样的谎言！我的天哪，但是在审判日，当他们穿着死亡萨克翻滚而来时，这将是一场四方狂欢，所有的人都一起欢腾，试图拖着他们的墓碑来证明他们有多么优秀，其中一些人他们修剪着，犹豫着，他们的手因为躺在海里而打瞌睡，而且很滑，他们甚至无法控制住他们。

I could see from the old fellow’s self-satisfied air and the way in which he looked round for the approval of his cronies that he was ‘showing off,’ so I put in a word to keep him going.
从老家伙沾沾自喜的神情和四处寻找亲信认可的样子我可以看出他在“炫耀”，所以我插了一句话让他继续说下去。

‘Oh, Mr. Swales, you can’t be serious. Surely these tombstones are not all wrong?’
“哦，斯韦尔斯先生，你不是认真的。这些墓碑肯定不会全错吧？

‘Yabblins! There may be a poorish few not wrong, savin’ where they make out the people too good, for there be folk that do think a balm-bowl be like the sea, if only it be their own. The whole thing be only lies. Now look you here. You come here a stranger, an’ you see this kirkgarth.’
‘亚布林！也许有一些贫穷的人并没有错，他们把人民看得太好了，因为有些人确实认为香膏碗就像大海，只要它是他们自己的就好了。整件事只是谎言。现在看你这里。你作为一个陌生人来到这里，却看到了这个柯克加斯。”

I nodded, for I thought it better to assent, though I did not quite understand his dialect. I knew it had something to do with the church.
我点点头，因为我认为最好还是同意，尽管我不太明白他的方言。我知道这和教会有关。

He went on, ‘And you consate that all these steans be aboon folk that be haped here, snod an’ snog?’ I assented again. ‘Then that be just where the lie comes in. Why, there be scores of these laybeds that be toom as old Dun’s ‘baccabox on Friday night.’
他继续说道：“你认为所有这些人都会为这里的人们带来福祉吗？”我再次表示同意。 “那么这就是谎言出现的地方。哎呀，有很多这样的躺椅，它们太像老邓的‘星期五晚上的酒盒’了。”

He nudged one of his companions, and they all laughed. ‘And, my gog! How could they be otherwise? Look at that one, the aftest abaft the bier-bank, read it!’
他碰了碰他的一位同伴，他们都笑了。 ‘还有，天啊！他们怎么可能不这样呢？看看那个，就在啤酒架后面，读它！

I went over and read, ‘Edward Spencelagh, master mariner, murdered by pirates off the coast of Andres, April, 1854, age 30.’ When I came back Mr. Swales went on,
我走过去读道：“爱德华·斯宾塞拉，水手大师，1854 年 4 月在安德烈斯海岸被海盗谋杀，时年 30 岁。”当我回来时，斯韦尔斯先生继续说道：

‘Who brought him home, I wonder, to hap him here? Murdered off the coast of Andres! An’ you consated his body lay under! Why, I could name ye a dozen whose bones lie in the Greenland seas above,’ he pointed northwards, ‘or where the currants may have drifted them. There be the steans around ye. Ye can, with your young eyes, read the small print of the lies from here. This Braithwaite Lowery, I knew his father, lost in the Lively off Greenland in ‘20, or Andrew Woodhouse, drowned in the same seas in 1777, or John Paxton, drowned off Cape Farewell a year later, or old John Rawlings, whose grandfather sailed with me, drowned in the Gulf of Finland in ‘50. Do ye think that all these men will have to make a rush to Whitby when the trumpet sounds? I have me antherums aboot it! I tell ye that when they got here they’d be jommlin’ and jostlin’ one another that way that it ‘ud be like a fight up on the ice in the old days, when we’d be at one another from daylight to dark, an’ tryin’ to tie up our cuts by the aurora borealis.’ This was evidently local pleasantry, for the old man cackled over it, and his cronies joined in with gusto.
“我想知道是谁把他带回家来让他来这里的？”在安德烈斯海岸被谋杀！你让他的尸体躺在下面！哎呀，我能说出十几个骸骨的名字，他们的骨头都埋在上面的格陵兰海里，”他指着北方，“或者是醋栗把它们漂到了哪里。你们周围有斯坦斯。你们可以用你们年轻的眼睛从这里读出谎言的小字。我认识这个布莱斯韦特·洛厄里（Braithwaite Lowery），他的父亲在 20 世纪 20 年代在格陵兰岛热闹的海域失踪，或者安德鲁·伍德豪斯（Andrew Woodhouse）于 1777 年在同一片海域溺水身亡，或者约翰·帕克斯顿（John Paxton）一年后在告别角溺水身亡，或者是老约翰·罗林斯（John Rawlings），他的祖父50 年代与我一起航行，在芬兰湾溺水身亡。你们认为当号角吹响时，所有这些人都必须赶到惠特比吗？我有我的花药启动它！我告诉你们，当他们到达这里时，他们会互相推搡，就像过去在冰上打架一样，当时我们从白天到天黑都在互相攻击“试图用北极光来绑住我们的伤口。”这显然是当地的玩笑，因为老人咯咯笑起来，他的亲信也兴致勃勃地加入了进来。

‘But,’ I said, ‘surely you are not quite correct, for you start on the assumption that all the poor people, or their spirits, will have to take their tombstones with them on the Day of Judgment. Do you think that will be really necessary?’
“但是，”我说，“你肯定不太正确，因为你一开始就假设所有的穷人，或者他们的灵魂，在审判日都必须带走他们的墓碑。”你认为这真的有必要吗？

‘Well, what else be they tombstones for? Answer me that, miss!’
“那么，这些墓碑还有什么用呢？回答我，小姐！’

‘To please their relatives, I suppose.’
“我想是为了取悦他们的亲戚。”

‘To please their relatives, you suppose!’ This he said with intense scorn. ‘How will it pleasure their relatives to know that lies is wrote over them, and that everybody in the place knows that they be lies?’
“你猜想，是为了取悦他们的亲戚！”他带着强烈的轻蔑说道。 “如果他们的亲戚知道他们身上写着谎言，而且这个地方的每个人都知道他们是谎言，他们会高兴吗？”

He pointed to a stone at our feet which had been laid down as a slab, on which the seat was rested, close to the edge of the cliff. ‘Read the lies on that thruff-stone,’ he said.
他指着我们脚下的一块石头，这块石头是一块平板，上面放着座位，靠近悬崖边缘。 “看看那块石头上的谎言，”他说。

The letters were upside down to me from where I sat, but Lucy was more opposite to them, so she leant over and read, ‘Sacred to the memory of George Canon, who died, in the hope of a glorious resurrection, on July 29,1873, falling from the rocks at Kettleness. This tomb was erected by his sorrowing mother to her dearly beloved son.‘He was the only son of his mother, and she was a widow.’ Really, Mr. Swales, I don’t see anything very funny in that!’ She spoke her comment very gravely and somewhat severely.
从我坐的地方看，这些信是颠倒的，但露西与它们相反，所以她俯身读道：“谨以此纪念乔治·卡农，他于 7 月 29 日去世，希望能够光荣复活” 1873 年，从凯特内斯的岩石上坠落。这座坟墓是他悲伤的母亲为她心爱的儿子建造的。“他是他母亲唯一的儿子，而她是个寡妇。”真的，斯韦尔斯先生，我看不出这有什么好笑的！她的评论非常严肃，甚至有些严厉。

‘Ye don’t see aught funny! Ha-ha! But that’s because ye don’t gawm the sorrowin’ mother was a hell-cat that hated him because he was acrewk’d, a regular lamiter he was, an’ he hated her so that he committed suicide in order that she mightn’t get an insurance she put on his life. He blew nigh the top of his head off with an old musket that they had for scarin’ crows with. ‘twarn’t for crows then, for it brought the clegs and the dowps to him. That’s the way he fell off the rocks. And, as to hopes of a glorious resurrection, I’ve often heard him say masel’ that he hoped he’d go to hell, for his mother was so pious that she’d be sure to go to heaven, an’ he didn’t want to addle where she was. Now isn’t that stean at any rate,’ he hammered it with his stick as he spoke, ‘a pack of lies? And won’t it make Gabriel keckle when Geordie comes pantin’ ut the grees with the tompstean balanced on his hump, and asks to be took as evidence!’
‘你们没觉得有什么好笑的！哈哈！但那是因为你不会惊讶悲伤的母亲是一只地狱猫，她恨他，因为他是个笨蛋，他是一个普通的人，他恨她，所以他自杀了，这样她就不会获得她为他提供的生命保险。他用一把旧步枪打爆了他的头顶，那是他们用来吓唬乌鸦的。 “那就别叫乌鸦了，因为乌鸦给他带来了棍子和棍子。”这就是他从岩石上摔下来的方式。至于光荣复活的希望，我经常听到他说“马塞尔”，他希望自己能下地狱，因为他的母亲是如此虔诚，她一定会去天堂，但他没有不想在她原来的地方乱来。无论如何，这不是一堆谎言吗？”他边说边用棍子敲打着它。当乔迪带着驼背上的汤普斯坦气喘吁吁地走过来，要求将其作为证据时，加布里埃尔不会感到害怕吗！

I did not know what to say, but Lucy turned the conversation as she said, rising up, ‘Oh, why did you tell us of this? It is my favourite seat, and I cannot leave it, and now I find I must go on sitting over the grave of a suicide.’
我不知道该说什么，但露西却扭转了话题，站了起来，‘哦，你为什么要告诉我们这件事？这是我最喜欢的座位，我不能离开它，现在我发现我必须继续坐在自杀者的坟墓上。

‘That won’t harm ye, my pretty, an’ it may make poor Geordie gladsome to have so trim a lass sittin’ on his lap. That won’t hurt ye. Why, I’ve sat here off an’ on for nigh twenty years past, an’ it hasn’t done me no harm. Don’t ye fash about them as lies under ye, or that doesn’ lie there either! It’ll be time for ye to be getting scart when ye see the tombsteans all run away with, and the place as bare as a stubble-field. There’s the clock, and’I must gang. My service to ye, ladies!’ And off he hobbled.
“这不会伤害你，我的美人，而且”这可能会让可怜的乔迪很高兴有一个如此苗条的女孩坐在他的腿上。那不会伤害你们。哎呀，我已经断断续续地坐在这里近二十年了，但这并没有对我造成任何伤害。不要把它们看成是在你的下面，或者那也不在那里！当你们看到所有的墓碑都跑掉了，而这个地方就像一片残茬地一样光秃秃的时候，你们就该感到害怕了。时钟到了，我必须组队。女士们，我为你们效劳！”然后他一瘸一拐地走了。

Lucy and I sat awhile, and it was all so beautiful before us that we took hands as we sat, and she told me all over again about Arthur and their coming marriage. That made me just a little heart-sick, for I haven’t heard from Jonathan for a whole month.
露西和我坐了一会儿，眼前的一切是如此美丽，我们坐下时握着手，她向我一遍又一遍地讲述了亚瑟和他们即将到来的婚姻。这让我有点心痛，因为我已经整整一个月没有收到乔纳森的消息了。

The same day. I came up here alone, for I am very sad. There was no letter for me. I hope there cannot be anything the matter with Jonathan. The clock has just struck nine. I see the lights scattered all over the town, sometimes in rows where the streets are, and sometimes singly. They run right up the Esk and die away in the curve of the valley. To my left the view is cut off by a black line of roof of the old house next to the abbey. The sheep and lambs are bleating in the fields away behind me, and there is a clatter of donkeys’ hoofs up the paved road below. The band on the pier is playing a harsh waltz in good time, and further along the quay there is a Salvation Army meeting in a back street. Neither of the bands hears the other, but up here I hear and see them both. I wonder where Jonathan is and if he is thinking of me! I wish he were here.
同一天。我一个人来到这里，因为我很难过。没有给我的信。我希望乔纳森不会有什么问题。时钟刚刚敲过九点。我看到灯光散布在整个城镇，有时在街道上成排，有时是单独的。它们径直沿着埃斯克河而上，最后消失在山谷的弯道中。在我的左边，修道院旁边老房子的屋顶黑线挡住了视线。绵羊和小羊在我身后的田野里咩咩叫着，下面铺好的道路上传来驴蹄的嘎嘎声。码头上的乐队适时地演奏着刺耳的华尔兹，沿着码头再往前走，在一条后街上有救世军的聚会。两个乐队都听不到对方的声音，但在这里我听到并看到他们两个。我想知道乔纳森在哪里以及他是否在想我！我希望他在这里。

DR. SEWARD’S DIARY
博士。苏厄德的日记

5 June.—The case of Renfield grows more interesting the more I get to understand the man. He has certain qualities very largely developed, selfishness, secrecy, and purpose.
6 月 5 日——我对伦菲尔德的了解越多，他的事例就越有趣。他的某些品质得到了极大的发展：自私、保密和目标明确。

I wish I could get at what is the object of the latter. He seems to have some settled scheme of his own, but what it is I do not know. His redeeming quality is a love of animals, though, indeed, he has such curious turns in it that I sometimes imagine he is only abnormally cruel. His pets are of odd sorts.
我希望我能明白后者的目的是什么。他似乎有自己的既定计划，但具体是什么我不知道。他的可取之处是对动物的热爱，尽管他确实有如此奇怪的转变，以至于我有时认为他只是异常残忍。他的宠物种类很奇怪。

Just now his hobby is catching flies. He has at present such a quantity that I have had myself to expostulate. To my astonishment, he did not break out into a fury, as I expected, but took the matter in simple seriousness. He thought for a moment, and then said, ‘May I have three days? I shall clear them away.’ Of course, I said that would do. I must watch him.
刚才他的爱好是捉苍蝇。他目前的数量如此之大，以至于我不得不亲自劝告。令我惊讶的是，他并没有像我预料的那样勃然大怒，而是简单严肃地对待这件事。他想了想，说道：“可以给我三天时间吗？”我会把他们清理掉的。”当然，我说那就行了。我必须看着他。

18 June.—He has turned his mind now to spiders, and has got several very big fellows in a box. He keeps feeding them his flies, and the number of the latter is becoming sensibly diminished, although he has used half his food in attracting more flies from outside to his room.
6 月 18 日——他现在把注意力转向了蜘蛛，并在一个盒子里放了几个非常大的家伙。他不断地喂苍蝇，尽管他已经用了一半的食物来吸引更多的苍蝇从外面到他的房间，但苍蝇的数量明显减少了。

1 July.—His spiders are now becoming as great a nuisance as his flies, and today I told him that he must get rid of them.
7 月 1 日——他的蜘蛛现在变得和苍蝇一样令人讨厌，今天我告诉他必须除掉它们。

He looked very sad at this, so I said that he must some of them, at all events. He cheerfully acquiesced in this, and I gave him the same time as before for reduction.
他对此显得非常悲伤，所以我说他无论如何都必须其中一些。他爽快地默许了，我也给了他和以前一样的减量时间。

He disgusted me much while with him, for when a horrid blowfly, bloated with some carrion food, buzzed into the room, he caught it, held it exultantly for a few moments between his finger and thumb, and before I knew what he was going to do, put it in his mouth and ate it.
和他在一起的时候，我很厌恶他，因为当一只可怕的绿头蝇，身上沾满腐肉食物，嗡嗡地飞进房间时，他抓住了它，用手指和拇指兴高采烈地把它举了一会儿，然后我才明白他要做什么。要做的，就把它放进嘴里吃掉。

I scolded him for it, but he argued quietly that it was very good and very wholesome, that it was life, strong life, and gave life to him. This gave me an idea, or the rudiment of one. I must watch how he gets rid of his spiders.
我为此责备他，但他平静地辩称，这是非常好的、非常有益健康的，这是生命，强大的生命，给了他生命。这给了我一个想法，或者说是一个想法的雏形。我必须看他如何除掉蜘蛛。

He has evidently some deep problem in his mind, for he keeps a little notebook in which he is always jotting down something. whole pages of it are filled with masses of figures, generally single numbers added up in batches, and then the totals added in batches again, as though he were focussing some account, as the auditors put it.
显然他脑子里有一些很深的问题，因为他有一个小笔记本，他总是在里面记下一些东西。整页纸上都是大量的数字，通常是单个数字批量相加，然后总数又批量相加，就像审计员所说的那样，就好像他在关注某个账户一样。

8 July.—There is a method in his madness, and the rudimentary idea in my mind is growing. It will be a whole idea soon, and then, oh, unconscious cerebration, you will have to give the wall to your conscious brother.
7月8日——他的疯狂是有办法的，我脑子里的初步想法正在增长。这很快就会成为一个完整的想法，然后，哦，无意识的思考，你将不得不把墙交给你有意识的兄弟。

I kept away from my friend for a few days, so that I might notice if there were any change. Things remain as they were except that he has parted with some of his pets and got a new one.
我离开我的朋友几天，以便我可以注意到是否有任何变化。一切都保持原样，只是他与一些宠物分手并养了一只新宠物。

He has managed to get a sparrow, and has already partially tamed it. His means of taming is simple, for already the spiders have diminished. Those that do remain, however, are well fed, for he still brings in the flies by tempting them with his food.
他成功地得到了一只麻雀，并且已经部分驯服了它。他的驯服方法很简单，因为蜘蛛已经减少了。然而，那些留下来的人却吃得饱饱的，因为他仍然用食物引诱苍蝇进来。

19 July—We are progressing. My friend has now a whole colony of sparrows, and his flies and spiders are almost obliterated. When I came in he ran to me and said he wanted to ask me a great favour, a very, very great favour. And as he spoke, he fawned on me like a dog.
7 月 19 日——我们正在取得进展。我的朋友现在有一大群麻雀，他的苍蝇和蜘蛛几乎消失了。当我进来时，他跑过来对我说他想请我一个大忙，一个非常非常大的忙。他一边说话，一边像狗一样对我阿谀奉承。

I asked him what it was, and he said, with a sort of rapture in his voice and bearing, ‘A kitten, a nice, little, sleek playful kitten, that I can play with, and teach, and feed, and feed, and feed!’
我问他那是什么，他的声音和举止中充满了狂喜，“一只小猫，一只可爱的小猫，光滑顽皮的小猫，我可以和它一起玩，教它，喂它，喂它，并喂食！

I was not unprepared for this request, for I had noticed how his pets went on increasing in size and vivacity, but I did not care that his pretty family of tame sparrows should be wiped out in the same manner as the flies and spiders. So I said I would see about it, and asked him if he would not rather have a cat than a kitten.
我对这个要求并非毫无准备，因为我注意到他的宠物越来越大，越来越活泼，但我并不关心他可爱的驯服麻雀家族应该像苍蝇和蜘蛛一样被消灭。所以我说我会看看，并问他是否宁愿养猫也不愿养小猫。

His eagerness betrayed him as he answered, ‘Oh, yes, I would like a cat! I only asked for a kitten lest you should refuse me a cat. No one would refuse me a kitten, would they?’
当他回答时，他的渴望出卖了他：“哦，是的，我想要一只猫！”我只想要一只小猫，以免你拒绝给我一只猫。没有人会拒绝给我一只小猫，不是吗？

I shook my head, and said that at present I feared it would not be possible, but that I would see about it. His face fell, and I could see a warning of danger in it, for there was a sudden fierce, sidelong look which meant killing. The man is an undeveloped homicidal maniac. I shall test him with his present craving and see how it will work out, then I shall know more.
我摇摇头，说目前我担心这是不可能的，但我会看看。他的脸色沉了下来，我可以从他的表情中看到一种危险的警告，因为突然有一种凶猛的斜视表情，这意味着杀戮。这个男人是一个未成熟的杀人狂。我将用他目前的渴望来测试他，看看结果如何，然后我就会知道更多。

10 pm.—I have visited him again and found him sitting in a corner brooding. When I came in he threw himself on his knees before me and implored me to let him have a cat, that his salvation depended upon it.
晚上10点——我再次拜访他，发现他坐在角落里沉思。当我进来时，他跪在我面前，恳求我让他养一只猫，他的救赎就靠它了。

I was firm, however, and told him that he could not have it, whereupon he went without a word, and sat down, gnawing his fingers, in the corner where I had found him. I shall see him in the morning early.
然而，我态度坚决，告诉他他不能得到它，于是他二话不说，坐在我发现他的那个角落里，咬着手指。明天一早我就会见到他。

20 July.—Visited Renfield very early, before attendant went his rounds. Found him up and humming a tune. He was spreading out his sugar, which he had saved, in the window, and was manifestly beginning his fly catching again, and beginning it cheerfully and with a good grace.
7 月 20 日——在服务员巡视之前很早就拜访了伦菲尔德。发现他正哼着小曲。他正在把自己攒下来的糖撒在窗子上，显然又开始捉苍蝇了，而且是愉快而优雅地开始的。

I looked around for his birds, and not seeing them, asked him where they were. He replied, without turning round, that they had all flown away. There were a few feathers about the room and on his pillow a drop of blood. I said nothing, but went and told the keeper to report to me if there were anything odd about him during the day.
我环顾四周寻找他的鸟，没有看到它们，就问他它们在哪里。他头也不回地回答说，他们都飞走了。房间里有一些羽毛，他的枕头上有一滴血。我什么也没说，只是去告诉守门员，如果他白天有任何异常，就向我报告。

11 am.—The attendant has just been to see me to say that Renfield has been very sick and has disgorged a whole lot of feathers. ‘My belief is, doctor,’ he said, ‘that he has eaten his birds, and that he just took and ate them raw!’
上午 11 点——服务员刚刚来看我，说雷菲尔德病得很重，吐出了很多羽毛。 “我相信，医生，”他说，“他已经吃掉了他的鸟，而且他只是生吃它们！”

11 pm.—I gave Renfield a strong opiate tonight, enough to make even him sleep, and took away his pocketbook to look at it. The thought that has been buzzing about my brain lately is complete, and the theory proved.
晚上11点——今晚我给雷菲尔德服用了强效鸦片剂，足以让他入睡，然后拿走了他的钱包看了一下。最近我脑子里嗡嗡作响的想法已经完成，并且理论得到了证明。

My homicidal maniac is of a peculiar kind. I shall have to invent a new classification for him, and call him a zoophagous (life-eating) maniac. What he desires is to absorb as many lives as he can, and he has laid himself out to achieve it in a cumulative way. He gave many flies to one spider and many spiders to one bird, and then wanted a cat to eat the many birds. What would have been his later steps?
我的杀人狂是一种特殊的人。我得为他发明一个新的分类，称他为食兽狂人。他的愿望是吸收尽可能多的生命，并且他已经竭尽全力以累积的方式实现这一目标。他给了一只蜘蛛很多只苍蝇，给了一只鸟很多只蜘蛛，然后想要一只猫吃掉很多只鸟。他后来会采取什么行动？

It would almost be worth while to complete the experiment. It might be done if there were only a sufficient cause. Men sneered at vivisection, and yet look at its results today! Why not advance science in its most difficult and vital aspect, the knowledge of the brain?
完成这个实验几乎是值得的。只要有充分的理由，就可以这样做。人们嘲笑活体解剖，但今天看看它的结果！为什么不推进科学最困难和最重要的方面，即大脑的知识呢？

Had I even the secret of one such mind, did I hold the key to the fancy of even one lunatic, I might advance my own branch of science to a pitch compared with which Burdon-Sanderson’s physiology or Ferrier’s brain knowledge would be as nothing. If only there were a sufficient cause! I must not think too much of this, or I may be tempted. A good cause might turn the scale with me, for may not I too be of an exceptional brain, congenitally?
如果我掌握了这样一个心灵的秘密，如果我掌握了打开一个疯子幻想的钥匙，我可能会将我自己的科学分支提升到一个新的高度，与伯登-桑德森的生理学或费里尔的大脑知识相比，这将是微不足道的。如果有充分的理由就好了！我不能想太多，否则我可能会受到诱惑。一个好的事业可能会改变我的天平，因为我难道不是天生就有一个非凡的大脑吗？

How well the man reasoned. Lunatics always do within their own scope. I wonder at how many lives he values a man, or if at only one. He has closed the account most accurately, and today begun a new record. How many of us begin a new record with each day of our lives?
这人推理得多么好啊。疯子总是在自己的范围内做事。我想知道他看重一个人有多少条生命，或者是否只看重一条。他已经最准确地关闭了账户，今天又开始了新的记录。我们中有多少人的每一天都开始新的记录？

To me it seems only yesterday that my whole life ended with my new hope, and that truly I began a new record. So it shall be until the Great Recorder sums me up and closes my ledger account with a balance to profit or loss.
对我来说，仿佛就在昨天，我的一生带着新的希望结束了，我也真正开始了新的记录。直到伟大的记录者对我进行总结并以损益余额结清我的分类账户为止。

Oh, Lucy, Lucy, I cannot be angry with you, nor can I be angry with my friend whose happiness is yours, but I must only wait on hopeless and work. Work! Work!
哦，露西，露西，我不能生你的气，也不能生我的朋友的气，他的幸福是你的，但我只能等待绝望和工作。工作！工作！

If I could have as strong a cause as my poor mad friend there, a good, unselfish cause to make me work, that would be indeed happiness.
如果我能有一个像我那可怜的疯狂朋友一样强大的事业，一个好的、无私的事业让我工作，那确实是幸福的。

MINA MURRAY’S JOURNAL
米娜·默里的日记

26 July.—I am anxious, and it soothes me to express myself here. It is like whispering to one’s self and listening at the same time. And there is also something about the shorthand symbols that makes it different from writing. I am unhappy about Lucy and about Jonathan. I had not heard from Jonathan for some time, and was very concerned, but yesterday dear Mr. Hawkins, who is always so kind, sent me a letter from him. I had written asking him if he had heard, and he said the enclosed had just been received. It is only a line dated from Castle Dracula, and says that he is just starting for home. That is not like Jonathan. I do not understand it, and it makes me uneasy.
7 月 26 日——我很焦虑，在这里表达自己的想法让我感到安慰。这就像对自己耳语并同时倾听。速记符号也有一些不同于书写的地方。我对露西和乔纳森不满意。我已经有一段时间没有乔纳森的消息了，我很担心，但昨天亲爱的霍金斯先生，他总是那么友善，给我寄了一封他的信。我写信问他是否听到了，他说所附的内容刚刚收到。这只是德古拉城堡的一句台词，说他正要启程回家。这不像乔纳森。我不明白，这让我不安。

Then, too, Lucy, although she is so well, has lately taken to her old habit of walking in her sleep. Her mother has spoken to me about it, and we have decided that I am to lock the door of our room every night.
还有，露西虽然身体很好，但最近又养成了睡梦中走路的老习惯。她妈妈跟我谈过这件事，我们决定我每天晚上锁上我们房间的门。

Mrs. Westenra has got an idea that sleep-walkers always go out on roofs of houses and along the edges of cliffs and then get suddenly wakened and fall over with a despairing cry that echoes all over the place.
韦斯特拉夫人有一个想法，梦游者总是在屋顶和悬崖边缘突然醒来，摔倒在地，发出绝望的叫声，到处回荡。

Poor dear, she is naturally anxious about Lucy, and she tells me that her husband, Lucy’s father, had the same habit, that he would get up in the night and dress himself and go out, if he were not stopped.
可怜的亲爱的，她自然担心露西，她告诉我，她的丈夫，露西的父亲，也有同样的习惯，如果不阻止的话，他会在夜里起床，穿好衣服就出去。

Lucy is to be married in the autumn, and she is already planning out her dresses and how her house is to be arranged. I sympathise with her, for I do the same, only Jonathan and I will start in life in a very simple way, and shall have to try to make both ends meet.
露西将于秋天结婚，她已经在计划她的衣服以及如何布置她的房子。我同情她，因为我也这么做，只有乔纳森和我会以一种非常简单的方式开始生活，并且必须努力维持收支平衡。

Mr. Holmwood, he is the Hon. Arthur Holmwood, only son of Lord Godalming, is coming up here very shortly, as soon as he can leave town, for his father is not very well, and I think dear Lucy is counting the moments till he comes.
霍姆伍德先生，他是尊敬的霍姆伍德先生。戈达尔明勋爵的独生子亚瑟·霍姆伍德很快就会离开小镇，因为他的父亲身体不太好，我想亲爱的露西正在数着他到来的时间。

She wants to take him up in the seat on the churchyard cliff and show him the beauty of Whitby. I daresay it is the waiting which disturbs her. She will be all right when he arrives.
她想带他坐在教堂墓地悬崖上的座位上，向他展示惠特比的美丽。我敢说，等待让她心烦意乱。当他到来时她就会没事的。

27 July.—No news from Jonathan. I am getting quite uneasy about him, though why I should I do not know, but I do wish that he would write, if it were only a single line.
7 月 27 日——乔纳森没有消息。我对他感到很不安，虽然我不知道为什么，但我确实希望他能写，哪怕只是一行。

Lucy walks more than ever, and each night I am awakened by her moving about the room. Fortunately, the weather is so hot that she cannot get cold. But still, the anxiety and the perpetually being awakened is beginning to tell on me, and I am getting nervous and wakeful myself. Thank God, Lucy’s health keeps up. Mr. Holmwood has been suddenly called to Ring to see his father, who has been taken seriously ill. Lucy frets at the postponement of seeing him, but it does not touch her looks. She is a trifle stouter, and her cheeks are a lovely rose-pink. She has lost the anemic look which she had. I pray it will all last.
露西走路的次数比以往任何时候都多，每天晚上我都会被她在房间里走来走去而吵醒。幸好天气这么热，她才不会着凉。但尽管如此，焦虑和永远的觉醒开始影响我，我自己也变得紧张和清醒。感谢上帝，露西的健康状况一直很好。霍姆伍德先生突然被叫去瑞恩看望病重的父亲。露西因见他的推迟而感到烦恼，但这并不影响她的容貌。她有点胖，脸颊呈可爱的玫瑰粉色。她一改往日贫血的样子。我祈祷一切都会持续下去。

3 August.—Another week gone by, and no news from Jonathan, not even to Mr. Hawkins, from whom I have heard. Oh, I do hope he is not ill. He surely would have written. I look at that last letter of his, but somehow it does not satisfy me. It does not read like him, and yet it is his writing. There is no mistake of that.
8 月 3 日——又一个星期过去了，乔纳森没有任何消息，甚至我从他那里听到的霍金斯先生也没有消息。哦，我真希望他没有生病。他肯定会写的。我看着他的最后一封信，但不知怎的，它并没有让我满意。它读起来不像他，但却是他的作品。这没有错。

Lucy has not walked much in her sleep the last week, but there is an odd concentration about her which I do not understand, even in her sleep she seems to be watching me. She tries the door, and finding it locked, goes about the room searching for the key.
露西上周在睡梦中走得不多，但她有一种奇怪的专注力，我不明白，即使在睡梦中，她似乎也在看着我。她试了一下门，发现门锁着，于是她在房间里四处寻找钥匙。

6 August.—Another three days, and no news. This suspense is getting dreadful. If I only knew where to write to or where to go to, I should feel easier. But no one has heard a word of Jonathan since that last letter. I must only pray to God for patience.
8 月 6 日——又三天，没有消息。这个悬念越来越可怕。如果我只知道写信到哪里或去哪里，我应该会感觉更轻松。但自从上一封信之后，就再也没有人听到过乔纳森的消息。我只能祈求上帝赐予我耐心。

Lucy is more excitable than ever, but is otherwise well. Last night was very threatening, and the fishermen say that we are in for a storm. I must try to watch it and learn the weather signs.
露西比以往任何时候都更兴奋，但其他方面都很好。昨晚非常危险，渔民说我们即将遭遇暴风雨。我必须尝试观察它并了解天气迹象。

Today is a gray day, and the sun as I write is hidden in thick clouds, high over Kettleness. Everything is gray except the green grass, which seems like emerald amongst it, gray earthy rock, gray clouds, tinged with the sunburst at the far edge, hang over the gray sea, into which the sandpoints stretch like gray figures. The sea is tumbling in over the shallows and the sandy flats with a roar, muffled in the sea-mists drifting inland. The horizon is lost in a gray mist. All vastness, the clouds are piled up like giant rocks, and there is a ‘brool’ over the sea that sounds like some passage of doom. Dark figures are on the beach here and there, sometimes half shrouded in the mist, and seem ‘men like trees walking’. The fishing boats are racing for home, and rise and dip in the ground swell as they sweep into the harbour, bending to the scuppers. Here comes old Mr. Swales. He is making straight for me, and I can see, by the way he lifts his hat, that he wants to talk.
今天是一个灰暗的日子，当我写这篇文章时，太阳隐藏在厚厚的云层中，高高地在凯特尼斯上空。除了绿草之外，一切都是灰色的，绿草在其中看起来像翡翠，灰色的土质岩石，灰色的云朵，在远处的边缘带有旭日的色彩，悬挂在灰色的大海上，沙点像灰色的人物一样延伸到海里。海水咆哮着冲过浅滩和沙滩，淹没在飘向内陆的海雾中。地平线消失在灰色的薄雾中。广阔无垠，云层像巨大的岩石一样堆积起来，海面上有“阵雨”，听起来像是某种厄运的来临。海滩上到处都是黑色的人影，有时半笼在雾气中，看起来“人像树一样行走”。渔船竞相回家，在驶入港口时在地面上起起落落，弯向排水孔。老斯韦尔斯先生来了。他径直向我走来，从他举起帽子的方式我可以看出他想要说话。

I have been quite touched by the change in the poor old man. When he sat down beside me, he said in a very gentle way, ‘I want to say something to you, miss.’
我对这位可怜的老人的变化感到非常感动。当他在我身边坐下时，他非常温柔地说：“小姐，我想对你说句话。”

I could see he was not at ease, so I took his poor old wrinkled hand in mine and asked him to speak fully.
我看得出来他不太自在，所以我握住他可怜的、满是皱纹的手，请他把话说完。

So he said, leaving his hand in mine, ‘I’m afraid, my deary, that I must have shocked you by all the wicked things I’ve been sayin’ about the dead, and such like, for weeks past, but I didn’t mean them, and I want ye to remember that when I’m gone. We aud folks that be daffled, and with one foot abaft the krok-hooal, don’t altogether like to think of it, and we don’t want to feel scart of it, and that’s why I’ve took to makin’ light of it, so that I’d cheer up my own heart a bit. But, Lord love ye, miss, I ain’t afraid of dyin’, not a bit, only I don’t want to die if I can help it. My time must be nigh at hand now, for I be aud, and a hundred years is too much for any man to expect. And I’m so nigh it that the Aud Man is already whettin’ his scythe. Ye see, I can’t get out o’ the habit of caffin’ about it all at once. The chafts will wag as they be used to. Some day soon the Angel of Death will sound his trumpet for me. But don’t ye dooal an’ greet, my deary!’—for he saw that I was crying—‘if he should come this very night I’d not refuse to answer his call. For life be, after all, only a waitin’ for somethin’ else than what we’re doin’, and death be all that we can rightly depend on. But I’m content, for it’s comin’ to me, my deary, and comin’ quick. It may be comin’ while we be lookin’ and wonderin’. Maybe it’s in that wind out over the sea that’s bringin’ with it loss and wreck, and sore distress, and sad hearts. Look! Look!’ he cried suddenly. ‘There’s something in that wind and in the hoast beyont that sounds, and looks, and tastes, and smells like death. It’s in the air. I feel it comin’. Lord, make me answer cheerful, when my call comes!’ He held up his arms devoutly, and raised his hat. His mouth moved as though he were praying. After a few minutes’ silence, he got up, shook hands with me, and blessed me, and said goodbye, and hobbled off. It all touched me, and upset me very much.
于是他把手放在我的手上说道：“我亲爱的，恐怕我在过去的几周里一直在说关于死者的所有邪恶的事情，诸如此类的事情，一定让你感到震惊，但是我我不是指他们，我希望你们在我离开后记住这一点。我们听到那些感到困惑的人，一只脚踩在克罗克胡尔后面，完全不喜欢去想它，我们不想感到害怕，这就是为什么我开始制造光，这样我就能让自己的心高兴一点。但是，主啊，我爱你，小姐，我不怕死，一点也不怕，只是如果可以的话我不想死。我的大限已经临近了，因为一百年对任何人来说都太漫长了。我已经快到了，奥德人已经磨着他的镰刀了。你看，我无法一下子改掉对这件事喋喋不休的习惯。摩擦会像平常那样摇摆。不久的将来，死亡天使将为我吹响号角。但是，不要打招呼，亲爱的！”——因为他看到我在哭——“如果他今晚来，我不会拒绝接听他的电话。毕竟，生命只不过是在等待我们正在做的事情之外的其他事情，而死亡才是我们可以正确依赖的一切。但我很满足，因为它即将降临到我身上，亲爱的，而且来得很快。当我们正在寻找和思考时，它可能就来了。也许正是海上的风带来了损失和破坏、痛苦的痛苦和悲伤的心。看！你看！”他突然喊道。 “在那风中和远处的土里有某种东西，听起来、看起来、尝起来、闻起来都像死亡。”它在空气中。我感觉到它来了。主啊，当我的召唤到来时，请让我高兴地回答！”他虔诚地举起双臂，举起帽子。他的嘴巴动了动，仿佛在祈祷。 几分钟的沉默后，他站起来，与我握手，祝福我，然后告别，一瘸一拐地走了。这一切都让我感动，也让我非常难过。

I was glad when the coastguard came along, with his spyglass under his arm. He stopped to talk with me, as he always does, but all the time kept looking at a strange ship.
当海岸警卫队腋下夹着望远镜出现时，我很高兴。他像往常一样停下来和我说话，但一直看着一艘陌生的船。

‘I can’t make her out,’ he said. ‘She’s a Russian, by the look of her. But she’s knocking about in the queerest way. She doesn’t know her mind a bit. She seems to see the storm coming, but can’t decide whether to run up north in the open, or to put in here. Look there again! She is steered mighty strangely, for she doesn’t mind the hand on the wheel, changes about with every puff of wind. We’ll hear more of her before this time tomorrow.’
“我认不出她，”他说。 “从她的外表来看，她是俄罗斯人。但她却以一种最奇怪的方式四处走动。她有点不知道自己的想法。她似乎预见到暴风雨即将来临，但无法决定是否要在空旷的地方向北跑，还是要留在这里。再看看那里！她的驾驶方式很奇怪，因为她不介意方向盘上的手，随着每一阵风的吹动而改变方向。明天这个时间之前我们会听到更多关于她的消息。

Chapter 7
第7章

CUTTING FROM ‘THE DAILYGRAPH’, 8 AUGUST
8 月 8 日《每日新闻》截图

(PASTED IN MINA MURRAY’S JOURNAL)
（粘贴在米娜·默里的日记中）

From a correspondent.
来自记者。

Whitby.
惠特比。

One of the greatest and suddenest storms on record has just been experienced here, with results both strange and unique. The weather had been somewhat sultry, but not to any degree uncommon in the month of August. Saturday evening was as fine as was ever known, and the great body of holiday-makers laid out yesterday for visits to Mulgrave Woods, Robin Hood’s Bay, Rig Mill, Runswick, Staithes, and the various trips in the neighborhood of Whitby. The steamers Emma and Scarborough made trips up and down the coast, and there was an unusual amount of ‘tripping’ both to and from Whitby. The day was unusually fine till the afternoon, when some of the gossips who frequent the East Cliff churchyard, and from the commanding eminence watch the wide sweep of sea visible to the north and east, called attention to a sudden show of ‘mares tails’ high in the sky to the northwest. The wind was then blowing from the south-west in the mild degree which in barometrical language is ranked ‘No. 2, light breeze.’
这里刚刚经历了有记录以来最大、最突然的风暴之一，其结果既奇怪又独特。八月份的天气有些闷热，但也并不罕见。星期六的晚上是前所未有的美好，昨天一大群度假者准备前往马尔格雷夫伍兹、罗宾汉湾、里格米尔、朗斯威克、斯泰兹以及惠特比附近的各种旅行。艾玛号和斯卡伯勒号轮船沿着海岸来回航行，往返惠特比的“航行”次数异常多。这一天异常晴朗，直到下午，一些经常光顾东崖教堂墓地的八卦人士，从居高临下的高处观看北部和东部可见的广阔大海，引起人们对突然出现的“母马尾巴”的注意。西北高空。当时风从西南方向吹来，风的强度用气压语言来说是“第一”。 2、微风。

The coastguard on duty at once made report, and one old fisherman, who for more than half a century has kept watch on weather signs from the East Cliff, foretold in an emphatic manner the coming of a sudden storm. The approach of sunset was so very beautiful, so grand in its masses of splendidly coloured clouds, that there was quite an assemblage on the walk along the cliff in the old churchyard to enjoy the beauty. Before the sun dipped below the black mass of Kettleness, standing boldly athwart the western sky, its downward way was marked by myriad clouds of every sunset colour, flame, purple, pink, green, violet, and all the tints of gold, with here and there masses not large, but of seemingly absolute blackness, in all sorts of shapes, as well outlined as colossal silhouettes. The experience was not lost on the painters, and doubtless some of the sketches of the ‘Prelude to the Great Storm’ will grace the R. A and R. I. walls in May next.
值班的海岸警卫队立即报告，一位半个多世纪以来一直在东崖观察天气征兆的老渔夫，斩钉截铁地预言，一场突如其来的风暴即将来临。日落的到来是如此美丽，在大片色彩绚丽的云彩中显得如此宏伟，以至于在古老墓地的悬崖边散步时，有很多人聚集在一起欣赏这美景。在太阳落入凯特内斯的黑色物质之下之前，它大胆地横亘在西方的天空上，它的下降路线被无数的各种日落颜色的云所标记，火焰，紫色，粉红色，绿色，紫罗兰色，以及所有金色的色调，这里那里的物体并不大，但看起来绝对是黑色的，形状各异，轮廓也像巨大的轮廓。画家们并没有忘记这段经历，毫无疑问，《大风暴前奏》的一些草图将于明年五月为 R.A 和 R.I. 的墙壁增光添彩。

More than one captain made up his mind then and there that his ‘cobble’ or his ‘mule’, as they term the different classes of boats, would remain in the harbour till the storm had passed. The wind fell away entirely during the evening, and at midnight there was a dead calm, a sultry heat, and that prevailing intensity which, on the approach of thunder, affects persons of a sensitive nature.
不止一位船长当时就决定，他的“鹅卵石”或“骡子”（他们对不同级别的船的称呼）将留在港口，直到风暴过去。晚上，风完全停了，午夜时分，一片死寂，一股闷热的气息，雷声即将来临，敏感的人都会受到影响。

There were but few lights in sight at sea, for even the coasting steamers, which usually hug the shore so closely, kept well to seaward, and but few fishing boats were in sight. The only sail noticeable was a foreign schooner with all sails set, which was seemingly going westwards. The foolhardiness or ignorance of her officers was a prolific theme for comment whilst she remained in sight, and efforts were made to signal her to reduce sail in the face of her danger. Before the night shut down she was seen with sails idly flapping as she gently rolled on the undulating swell of the sea.
海上几乎看不到灯光，因为即使是通常紧贴海岸的沿岸汽船，也保持着远离大海的方向，但也看不到几艘渔船。唯一引人注目的帆是一艘挂满帆的外国纵帆船，它似乎正在向西行驶。当她仍然在视线范围内时，她的军官们的鲁莽或无知是一个多产的评论主题，并且努力向她发出信号，在面临危险时减少航行。在夜幕降临之前，人们看到她的船帆懒洋洋地拍打着，在波涛汹涌的海面上轻轻地滚动。

‘As idle as a painted ship upon a painted ocean.’
“就像一艘彩绘的船在彩绘的海洋上一样闲置。”

Shortly before ten o’clock the stillness of the air grew quite oppressive, and the silence was so marked that the bleating of a sheep inland or the barking of a dog in the town was distinctly heard, and the band on the pier, with its lively French air, was like a dischord in the great harmony of nature’s silence. A little after midnight came a strange sound from over the sea, and high overhead the air began to carry a strange, faint, hollow booming.
快到十点的时候，空气中的寂静变得相当压抑，寂静得如此明显，以至于内陆羊的咩咩声或城里狗的吠叫声都清晰可闻，码头上的乐队，带着它的声音。活泼的法国空气，就像大自然寂静的和谐之中的不和谐音。午夜刚过，海上传来一阵奇怪的声音，头顶上空的空气开始带着一种奇怪的、微弱的、空洞的轰鸣声。

Then without warning the tempest broke. With a rapidity which, at the time, seemed incredible, and even afterwards is impossible to realize, the whole aspect of nature at once became convulsed. The waves rose in growing fury, each over-topping its fellow, till in a very few minutes the lately glassy sea was like a roaring and devouring monster. White-crested waves beat madly on the level sands and rushed up the shelving cliffs. Others broke over the piers, and with their spume swept the lanthorns of the lighthouses which rise from the end of either pier of Whitby Harbour.
然后暴风雨毫无征兆地爆发了。自然界的整体立刻发生了剧烈的震动，其速度之快在当时看来令人难以置信，甚至在事后也难以想象。海浪越来越猛烈，每一个都超过了它的同伴，直到几分钟之内，最近玻璃般的大海就像一个咆哮和吞噬的怪物。白色的浪花疯狂地拍打着平坦的沙滩，冲上陡峭的悬崖。其他人冲破了码头，用泡沫扫过了惠特比港任一码头末端升起的灯塔的灯塔。

The wind roared like thunder, and blew with such force that it was with difficulty that even strong men kept their feet, or clung with grim clasp to the iron stanchions. It was found necessary to clear the entire pier from the mass of onlookers, or else the fatalities of the night would have increased manifold. To add to the difficulties and dangers of the time, masses of sea-fog came drifting inland. White, wet clouds, which swept by in ghostly fashion, so dank and damp and cold that it needed but little effort of imagination to think that the spirits of those lost at sea were touching their living brethren with the clammy hands of death, and many a one shuddered as the wreaths of sea-mist swept by.
狂风如雷霆般咆哮，刮得如此猛烈，就连强壮的人也很难站稳脚跟，或者紧紧地抓住铁柱。人们发现有必要清除整个码头上的大量围观者，否则当晚的死亡人数将会成倍增加。令当时的困难和危险雪上加霜的是，大量的海雾飘向内陆。白色、湿漉漉的云，以幽灵般的方式席卷而过，如此潮湿、潮湿和寒冷，只需要很少的想象力，就可以认为那些在海上迷失的人的灵魂正在用死亡的湿冷之手触摸他们活着的兄弟，许多人当海雾席卷而过时，有人颤抖起来。

At times the mist cleared, and the sea for some distance could be seen in the glare of the lightning, which came thick and fast, followed by such peals of thunder that the whole sky overhead seemed trembling under the shock of the footsteps of the storm.
有时，雾气散去，在闪电的光芒下，可以看到远处的大海，闪电来得又厚又快，紧接着就是雷鸣般的轰鸣，整个头顶的天空都在暴风雨脚步的冲击下颤抖起来。 。

Some of the scenes thus revealed were of immeasurable grandeur and of absorbing interest. The sea, running mountains high, threw skywards with each wave mighty masses of white foam, which the tempest seemed to snatch at and whirl away into space. Here and there a fishing boat, with a rag of sail, running madly for shelter before the blast, now and again the white wings of a storm-tossed seabird. On the summit of the East Cliff the new searchlight was ready for experiment, but had not yet been tried. The officers in charge of it got it into working order, and in the pauses of onrushing mist swept with it the surface of the sea. Once or twice its service was most effective, as when a fishing boat, with gunwale under water, rushed into the harbour, able, by the guidance of the sheltering light, to avoid the danger of dashing against the piers. As each boat achieved the safety of the port there was a shout of joy from the mass of people on the shore, a shout which for a moment seemed to cleave the gale and was then swept away in its rush.
由此揭示的一些场景非常宏伟且引人入胜。大海如山般高耸，每一波浪潮都向天空抛起巨大的白色泡沫，暴风雨似乎抓住了这些泡沫，并旋转到太空中。到处都有一艘张着破布帆的渔船，在爆炸前疯狂地寻找庇护所，时不时地看到一只被暴风雨颠簸的海鸟的白色翅膀。在东崖顶上，新的探照灯已准备好进行实验，但尚未进行尝试。负责它的军官们让它进入工作状态，在间歇性的浓雾中，它扫过海面。有一两次它的作用是最有效的，就像一艘渔船，船舷在水下，冲进港口，在遮蔽灯的引导下，能够避免冲撞码头的危险。当每艘船安全抵达港口时，岸上的群众发出一阵欢呼声，这声喊叫声一时仿佛能劈开狂风，然后又被狂风卷走。

Before long the searchlight discovered some distance away a schooner with all sails set, apparently the same vessel which had been noticed earlier in the evening. The wind had by this time backed to the east, and there was a shudder amongst the watchers on the cliff as they realized the terrible danger in which she now was.
不久，探照灯在远处发现了一艘挂满帆的纵帆船，显然是傍晚早些时候注意到的那艘船。此时，风已转向东边，悬崖上的观察者们意识到她现在所处的可怕危险，不禁不寒而栗。

Between her and the port lay the great flat reef on which so many good ships have from time to time suffered, and, with the wind blowing from its present quarter, it would be quite impossible that she should fetch the entrance of the harbour.
在她和港口之间有一块巨大的平坦礁石，许多好船时常在礁石上遭受苦难，而且，从当前所在地区吹来的风，她根本不可能到达港口的入口。

It was now nearly the hour of high tide, but the waves were so great that in their troughs the shallows of the shore were almost visible, and the schooner, with all sails set, was rushing with such speed that, in the words of one old salt, ‘she must fetch up somewhere, if it was only in hell”. Then came another rush of sea-fog, greater than any hitherto, a mass of dank mist, which seemed to close on all things like a gray pall, and left available to men only the organ of hearing, for the roar of the tempest, and the crash of the thunder, and the booming of the mighty billows came through the damp oblivion even louder than before. The rays of the searchlight were kept fixed on the harbour mouth across the East Pier, where the shock was expected, and men waited breathless.
现在已经快到涨潮的时候了，但是海浪如此之大，以至于在波谷中几乎可以看到海岸的浅滩，而那艘纵帆船，所有的帆都挂好了，正在以如此快的速度冲去，用一个人的话说，老盐，“她一定会到某个地方去，哪怕只是在地狱”。然后又一阵海雾袭来，比迄今为止任何一次都大，一团潮湿的雾气，似乎像灰色的帷幕一样封闭了一切，只留下人类的听觉器官，听着暴风雨的咆哮，雷霆的轰鸣声和巨浪的轰鸣声从潮湿的遗忘中传来，比以前更加响亮。探照灯的光线一直固定在东码头对面的港口口上，预计会发生冲击，人们屏息等待。

The wind suddenly shifted to the northeast, and the remnant of the sea fog melted in the blast. And then, mirabile dictu, between the piers, leaping from wave to wave as it rushed at headlong speed, swept the strange schooner before the blast, with all sail set, and gained the safety of the harbour. The searchlight followed her, and a shudder ran through all who saw her, for lashed to the helm was a corpse, with drooping head, which swung horribly to and fro at each motion of the ship. No other form could be seen on the deck at all.
风向突然转向东北，残留的海雾在狂风中融化。然后，奇迹般地，在码头之间，它以极快的速度从一个波浪跳跃到另一个波浪，在爆炸之前横扫了那艘奇怪的纵帆船，所有的帆都已挂好，安全地到达了港口。探照灯追随着她，所有看到她的人都感到不寒而栗，因为绑在舵上的是一具尸体，低着头，随着船的每一个动作，它可怕地来回摆动。甲板上根本看不到其他的身影。

A great awe came on all as they realised that the ship, as if by a miracle, had found the harbour, unsteered save by the hand of a dead man! However, all took place more quickly than it takes to write these words. The schooner paused not, but rushing across the harbour, pitched herself on that accumulation of sand and gravel washed by many tides and many storms into the southeast corner of the pier jutting under the East Cliff, known locally as Tate Hill Pier.
当他们意识到这艘船奇迹般地找到了港口，除了一个死人的手之外，其他人都没有掌舵时，所有人都感到非常敬畏！然而，这一切发生的速度比写下这些文字还要快。纵帆船没有停下来，而是冲过港口，停在被多次潮汐和风暴冲刷的沙砾堆上，驶入东悬崖下突出的码头的东南角，当地称为泰特山码头。

There was of course a considerable concussion as the vessel drove up on the sand heap. Every spar, rope, and stay was strained, and some of the ‘top-hammer’ came crashing down. But, strangest of all, the very instant the shore was touched, an immense dog sprang up on deck from below, as if shot up by the concussion, and running forward, jumped from the bow on the sand.
当船驶向沙堆时，当然发生了相当大的震荡。每根圆木、绳索和支柱都拉紧了，一些“顶锤”轰然倒塌。但最奇怪的是，就在触碰海岸的那一瞬间，一只巨大的狗从下面跳到了甲板上，仿佛被脑震荡击中了一样，向前奔跑，从船头跳到了沙滩上。

Making straight for the steep cliff, where the churchyard hangs over the laneway to the East Pier so steeply that some of the flat tombstones, thruffsteans or through-stones, as they call them in Whitby vernacular, actually project over where the sustaining cliff has fallen away, it disappeared in the darkness, which seemed intensified just beyond the focus of the searchlight.
径直走向陡峭的悬崖，那里的教堂墓地悬挂在通往东码头的巷道上，非常陡峭，以至于一些平坦的墓碑、thruffsteans 或贯通石（惠特比方言中对它们的称呼）实际上突出在支撑悬崖塌陷的地方远处，它消失在黑暗中，黑暗似乎在探照灯焦点之外变得更强烈。

It so happened that there was no one at the moment on Tate Hill Pier, as all those whose houses are in close proximity were either in bed or were out on the heights above. Thus the coastguard on duty on the eastern side of the harbour, who at once ran down to the little pier, was the first to climb aboard. The men working the searchlight, after scouring the entrance of the harbour without seeing anything, then turned the light on the derelict and kept it there. The coastguard ran aft, and when he came beside the wheel, bent over to examine it, and recoiled at once as though under some sudden emotion. This seemed to pique general curiosity, and quite a number of people began to run.
碰巧的是，此时泰特山码头上没有人，因为所有靠近房子的人要么在床上，要么在上面的高处。于是，在港口东侧执勤的海岸警卫队立即跑到小码头，第一个登上了船。使用探照灯的人们在港口入口处搜寻了一无所获，然后将探照灯转向了被遗弃的物体并将其保留在那里。海岸警卫队跑到船尾，当他来到舵轮旁边时，弯下身来检查它，然后立刻向后退了一步，好像突然受到某种情绪的影响。这似乎引起了人们的好奇，不少人开始奔跑。

It is a good way round from the West Cliff by the Draw-bridge to Tate Hill Pier, but your correspondent is a fairly good runner, and came well ahead of the crowd. When I arrived, however, I found already assembled on the pier a crowd, whom the coastguard and police refused to allow to come on board. By the courtesy of the chief boatman, I was, as your correspondent, permitted to climb on deck, and was one of a small group who saw the dead seaman whilst actually lashed to the wheel.
从西悬崖经吊桥到泰特山码头有一段很好的路，但本报记者是一位相当出色的跑步者，远远领先于人群。然而，当我到达时，我发现码头上已经聚集了一群人，海岸警卫队和警察拒绝让他们上船。出于船长的礼貌，作为你们的通讯员，我被允许爬上甲板，并且是一小群看到死去的海员实际上被绑在方向盘上的人之一。

It was no wonder that the coastguard was surprised, or even awed, for not often can such a sight have been seen. The man was simply fastened by his hands, tied one over the other, to a spoke of the wheel. Between the inner hand and the wood was a crucifix, the set of beads on which it was fastened being around both wrists and wheel, and all kept fast by the binding cords. The poor fellow may have been seated at one time, but the flapping and buffeting of the sails had worked through the rudder of the wheel and had dragged him to and fro, so that the cords with which he was tied had cut the flesh to the bone.
难怪海岸警卫队感到惊讶，甚至敬畏，因为这样的景象并不常见。这名男子的双手被绑在车轮的辐条上，一只手绑在另一只手上。在内手和木头之间有一个十字架，其上固定的一组珠子围绕着手腕和轮子，并且全部由绑绳固定。这个可怜的家伙可能曾经坐着过，但是船帆的拍打和震动已经通过舵轮的舵起作用，把他拖来拖去，以至于绑着他的绳子把皮肉割断了。骨。

Accurate note was made of the state of things, and a doctor, Surgeon J. M. Caffyn, of 33, East Elliot Place, who came immediately after me, declared, after making examination, that the man must have been dead for quite two days.
准确地记录了事态的发展，紧随我而来的一位来自东埃利奥特广场 33 号的外科医生 J. M. 卡芬 (J. M. Caffyn) 在检查后宣称，该男子肯定已经死了两天了。

In his pocket was a bottle, carefully corked, empty save for a little roll of paper, which proved to be the addendum to the log.
他的口袋里有一个瓶子，小心翼翼地塞上木塞，里面空空如也，只剩下一小卷纸，这被证明是日志的附录。

The coastguard said the man must have tied up his own hands, fastening the knots with his teeth. The fact that a coastguard was the first on board may save some complications later on, in the Admiralty Court, for coastguards cannot claim the salvage which is the right of the first civilian entering on a derelict. Already, however, the legal tongues are wagging, and one young law student is loudly asserting that the rights of the owner are already completely sacrificed, his property being held in contravention of the statues of mortmain, since the tiller, as emblemship, if not proof, of delegated possession, is held in a dead hand.
海岸警卫队表示，这名男子一定是自己绑住了双手，用牙齿将绳结系紧。海岸警卫队是第一个登船的事实可能会在以后的海事法庭上避免一些麻烦，因为海岸警卫队不能要求救助，而这是第一个进入废弃船舶的平民的权利。然而，法律方面的言论已经开始摇摆，一名年轻的法学院学生大声断言，所有者的权利已经完全牺牲，他的财产的持有违反了莫特梅因的雕像，因为耕耘者，如果不是象征的话，委托占有的证据掌握在死者手中。

It is needless to say that the dead steersman has been reverently removed from the place where he held his honourable watch and ward till death, a steadfastness as noble as that of the young Casabianca, and placed in the mortuary to await inquest.
不用说，死去的舵手已经被恭敬地从他一直到死的地方移走，他像年轻的卡萨比安卡一样高贵，坚贞不屈，并被放置在太平间等待审讯。

Already the sudden storm is passing, and its fierceness is abating. Crowds are scattering backward, and the sky is beginning to redden over the Yorkshire wolds.
突如其来的风暴已经过去，其猛烈程度正在减弱。人群向后散去，约克郡荒原上空的天空开始变红。

I shall send, in time for your next issue, further details of the derelict ship which found her way so miraculously into harbour in the storm.
我将及时向您的下一期发送有关这艘废弃船的更多详细信息，该船在暴风雨中奇迹般地驶入港口。

9 August.—The sequel to the strange arrival of the derelict in the storm last night is almost more startling than the thing itself. It turns out that the schooner is Russian from Varna, and is called the Demeter. She is almost entirely in ballast of silver sand, with only a small amount of cargo, a number of great wooden boxes filled with mould.
8 月 9 日——昨晚暴风雨中被遗弃的人奇怪地到来的后续几乎比事情本身更令人震惊。原来，这艘纵帆船是俄罗斯的瓦尔纳号，名为德墨忒尔号。她几乎完全被银色的沙子压住，只有少量的货物，一些装满霉菌的大木箱。

This cargo was consigned to a Whitby solicitor, Mr. S.F. Billington, of 7, The Crescent, who this morning went aboard and took formal possession of the goods consigned to him.
这批货物被托运给一位惠特比律师 S.F. 先生。比林顿（Billington），来自新月岛 7 号，今天早上登上了船，正式占有了托付给他的货物。

The Russian consul, too, acting for the charter-party, took formal possession of the ship, and paid all harbour dues, etc.
俄罗斯领事也代表租船合同正式占有该船，并支付了所有港口费等。

Nothing is talked about here today except the strange coincidence. The officials of the Board of Trade have been most exacting in seeing that every compliance has been made with existing regulations. As the matter is to be a ‘nine days wonder’, they are evidently determined that there shall be no cause of other complaint.
今天除了这个奇怪的巧合之外什么也不谈。贸易委员会的官员非常严格地确保每一项都遵守现有法规。由于这件事将成为“九天奇迹”，他们显然已经决定不再有任何其他抱怨。

A good deal of interest was abroad concerning the dog which landed when the ship struck, and more than a few of the members of the S.P.C.A., which is very strong in Whitby, have tried to befriend the animal. To the general disappointment, however, it was not to be found. It seems to have disappeared entirely from the town. It may be that it was frightened and made its way on to the moors, where it is still hiding in terror.
国外对那只在船撞上岸的狗很感兴趣，在惠特比实力雄厚的 S.P.C.A. 的不少成员都试图与这只动物成为朋友。然而，令普遍失望的是，并没有找到它。它似乎完全从小镇上消失了。它可能是受到了惊吓，跑到了荒原上，仍然惊恐地躲在那里。

There are some who look with dread on such a possibility, lest later on it should in itself become a danger, for it is evidently a fierce brute. Early this morning a large dog, a half-bred mastiff belonging to a coal merchant close to Tate Hill Pier, was found dead in the roadway opposite its master’s yard. It had been fighting, and manifestly had had a savage opponent, for its throat was torn away, and its belly was slit open as if with a savage claw.
有些人对这种可能性感到恐惧，唯恐以后它本身会成为一种危险，因为它显然是一种凶猛的野兽。今天清晨，一只大狗被发现死在主人院子对面的道路上，它是泰特山码头附近一家煤商的混血獒犬。它一直在战斗，显然遇到了一个野蛮的对手，因为它的喉咙被撕开，它的腹部就像被野蛮的利爪撕开一样。

Later.—By the kindness of the Board of Trade inspector, I have been permitted to look over the log book of the Demeter, which was in order up to within three days, but contained nothing of special interest except as to facts of missing men. The greatest interest, however, is with regard to the paper found in the bottle, which was today produced at the inquest. And a more strange narrative than the two between them unfold it has not been my lot to come across.
后来——在贸易委员会检查员的好意下，我被允许查看德墨忒尔号的航海日志，该日志在三天之内就已整理完毕，但除了有关失踪人员的事实外，没有包含任何特别有趣的内容。 。然而，最令人感兴趣的是瓶子里发现的纸，它是今天在调查中生产的。而比他们之间的两个故事更奇怪的叙述却不是我能遇到的。

As there is no motive for concealment, I am permitted to use them, and accordingly send you a transcript, simply omitting technical details of seamanship and supercargo. It almost seems as though the captain had been seized with some kind of mania before he had got well into blue water, and that this had developed persistently throughout the voyage. Of course my statement must be taken cum grano, since I am writing from the dictation of a clerk of the Russian consul, who kindly translated for me, time being short.
由于没有隐瞒的动机，我被允许使用它们，并相应地向您发送一份记录，只是省略了航海技术和押运的技术细节。船长似乎在进入蓝色的海水之前就已经患上了某种躁狂症，而且这种情况在整个航行过程中一直持续发展。当然，我的发言必须是草稿，因为我是根据俄罗斯领事馆一名职员的口述写的，他在时间紧迫的情况下好心地为我翻译。

LOG OF THE ‘DEMETER’ Varna to Whitby
“DEMETER”号瓦尔纳至惠特比的航海日志

Written 18 July, things so strange happening, that I shall keep accurate note henceforth till we land.
写于 7 月 18 日，发生了如此奇怪的事情，从今往后我将准确记录，直到我们着陆。

On 6 July we finished taking in cargo, silver sand and boxes of earth. At noon set sail. East wind, fresh. Crew, five hands … two mates, cook, and myself, (captain).
7月6日，我们完成了货物、银沙和土箱的接收。中午起航。东风，清新。船员，五名船员……两名副手，厨师，还有我自己（船长）。

On 11 July at dawn entered Bosphorus. Boarded by Turkish Customs officers. Backsheesh. All correct. Under way at 4 p.m.
7月11日黎明进入博斯普鲁斯海峡。土耳其海关官员登机。后希希。全对了。下午4点进行中

On 12 July through Dardanelles. More Customs officers and flagboat of guarding squadron. Backsheesh again. Work of officers thorough, but quick. Want us off soon. At dark passed into Archipelago.
7月12日穿过达达尼尔海峡。更多的海关人员和守卫中队的旗船。再次回击。官员们的工作彻底而迅速。想让我们快点走。天黑时进入群岛。

On 13 July passed Cape Matapan. Crew dissatisfied about something. Seemed scared, but would not speak out.
7 月 13 日，经过马塔潘角。船员对某事不满意。看上去很害怕，但又不敢说出来。

On 14 July was somewhat anxious about crew. Men all steady fellows, who sailed with me before. Mate could not make out what was wrong. They only told him there was SOMETHING, and crossed themselves. Mate lost temper with one of them that day and struck him. Expected fierce quarrel, but all was quiet.
7月14日，船员们有些担心。男人们都是稳重的家伙，以前和我一起航行过。马特无法弄清楚出了什么问题。他们只是告诉他有事，然后在胸前画了十字。那天马特对其中一个人发脾气并打了他。预计会发生激烈的争吵，但一切都很平静。

On 16 July mate reported in the morning that one of the crew, Petrofsky, was missing. Could not account for it. Took larboard watch eight bells last night, was relieved by Amramoff, but did not go to bunk. Men more downcast than ever. All said they expected something of the kind, but would not say more than there was SOMETHING aboard. Mate getting very impatient with them. Feared some trouble ahead.
7 月 16 日早上，大副报告说，其中一名船员彼得罗夫斯基失踪了。无法解释它。昨晚看了八钟钟，阿姆拉莫夫松了口气，但没有去铺位。男人比以往任何时候都更加沮丧。所有人都说他们期待类似的事情发生，但除了船上有东西之外没有透露更多信息。马特对他们非常不耐烦。担心前面会遇到麻烦。

On 17 July, yesterday, one of the men, Olgaren, came to my cabin, and in an awestruck way confided to me that he thought there was a strange man aboard the ship. He said that in his watch he had been sheltering behind the deckhouse, as there was a rain storm, when he saw a tall, thin man, who was not like any of the crew, come up the companionway, and go along the deck forward and disappear. He followed cautiously, but when he got to bows found no one, and the hatchways were all closed. He was in a panic of superstitious fear, and I am afraid the panic may spread. To allay it, I shall today search the entire ship carefully from stem to stern.
7 月 17 日，即昨天，其中一名男子奥尔加伦 (Olgaren) 来到我的船舱，以一种敬畏的方式向我吐露，他认为船上有一个奇怪的人。他说，在他的值班中，当时正在下暴雨，他一直躲在甲板室后面，这时他看到一个又高又瘦的男人，他不像任何船员，走上扶梯，沿着甲板向前走。然后消失。他小心翼翼地跟了上去，但当他到达船头时，却发现没有人，舱口也全都关闭了。他正处于一种迷信恐惧的恐慌之中，恐怕这种恐慌会蔓延开来。为了缓解这种情况，我今天将从头到尾仔细检查整艘船。

Later in the day I got together the whole crew, and told them, as they evidently thought there was some one in the ship, we would search from stem to stern. First mate angry, said it was folly, and to yield to such foolish ideas would demoralise the men, said he would engage to keep them out of trouble with the handspike. I let him take the helm, while the rest began a thorough search, all keeping abreast, with lanterns. We left no corner unsearched. As there were only the big wooden boxes, there were no odd corners where a man could hide. Men much relieved when search over, and went back to work cheerfully. First mate scowled, but said nothing.
当天晚些时候，我召集了全体船员，并告诉他们，因为他们显然认为船上有人，所以我们将从头到尾进行搜索。大副生气了，说这是愚蠢的，屈服于这种愚蠢的想法会让船员士气低落，他说他会用推杆让他们摆脱麻烦。我让他掌舵，其他人则提着灯笼并排开始彻底搜索。我们不遗漏任何一个角落。由于只有大木箱，没有什么奇怪的角落可供人躲藏。搜索结束后，男人们松了口气，高高兴兴地回去工作了。大副皱起眉头，但什么也没说。

22 July.—Rough weather last three days, and all hands busy with sails, no time to be frightened. Men seem to have forgotten their dread. Mate cheerful again, and all on good terms. Praised men for work in bad weather. Passed Gibraltar and out through Straits. All well.
7 月 22 日——连续三天天气恶劣，所有人都忙于航行，没有时间害怕。人们似乎已经忘记了他们的恐惧。伴侣再次开朗，一切都很好。赞扬男人在恶劣天气下工作。经过直布罗陀，穿过海峡。一切安好。

24 July.—There seems some doom over this ship. Already a hand short, and entering the Bay of Biscay with wild weather ahead, and yet last night another man lost, disappeared. Like the first, he came off his watch and was not seen again. Men all in a panic of fear, sent a round robin, asking to have double watch, as they fear to be alone. Mate angry. Fear there will be some trouble, as either he or the men will do some violence.
7 月 24 日——这艘船似乎面临着厄运。已经差一手了，进入比斯开湾时天气恶劣，但昨晚又有一个人迷路了，消失了。和第一个一样，他下班后就再也没有出现过。男人们都惊慌失措，派了一个循环队，要求双人值守，因为他们害怕孤独。老伴生气了担心会出现一些麻烦，因为他或这些人会做出一些暴力行为。

28 July.—Four days in hell, knocking about in a sort of maelstrom, and the wind a tempest. No sleep for any one. Men all worn out. Hardly know how to set a watch, since no one fit to go on. Second mate volunteered to steer and watch, and let men snatch a few hours sleep. Wind abating, seas still terrific, but feel them less, as ship is steadier.
7 月 28 日——地狱般的四天，在一场漩涡中翻滚，狂风如暴风雨。任何人都无法入睡。男人们都疲惫不堪。几乎不知道如何设置手表，因为没有人适合继续下去。二副自告奋勇地负责掌舵和值班，并让船员们抢了几个小时的睡眠时间。风减弱了，大海仍然很棒，但感觉不那么强烈了，因为船更稳定了。

29 July.—Another tragedy. Had single watch tonight, as crew too tired to double. When morning watch came on deck could find no one except steersman. Raised outcry, and all came on deck. Thorough search, but no one found. Are now without second mate, and crew in a panic. Mate and I agreed to go armed henceforth and wait for any sign of cause.
7 月 29 日——又一场悲剧。今晚只值班一次，因为工作人员太累了，无法加倍。当晨间值班时，甲板上除了舵手之外没有其他人。引起强烈抗议，所有人都上台了。一番搜寻，却无人发现。现在没有二副，船员们陷入恐慌。马特和我同意从今以后就武装起来，等待任何原因的迹象。

30 July.—Last night. Rejoiced we are nearing England. Weather fine, all sails set. Retired worn out, slept soundly, awakened by mate telling me that both man of watch and steersman missing. Only self and mate and two hands left to work ship.
7 月 30 日——昨晚。很高兴我们已经接近英格兰了。天气晴朗，一切顺利。疲惫不堪地退休了，睡得很香，被大副叫醒，告诉我值班人和舵手都失踪了。只剩下自己和伴侣以及两只手来工作。

1 August.—Two days of fog, and not a sail sighted. Had hoped when in the English Channel to be able to signal for help or get in somewhere. Not having power to work sails, have to run before wind. Dare not lower, as could not raise them again. We seem to be drifting to some terrible doom. Mate now more demoralised than either of men. His stronger nature seems to have worked inwardly against himself. Men are beyond fear, working stolidly and patiently, with minds made up to worst. They are Russian, he Roumanian.
8 月 1 日——两天大雾，看不到帆。曾希望在英吉利海峡时能够发出求救信号或进入某个地方。没有力量去航行，必须在风前奔跑。不敢再降低，因为无法再升高。我们似乎正在走向某种可怕的厄运。马特现在比任何一个人都更加士气低落。他坚强的本性似乎在内心与自己作对。人们无所畏惧，坚定而耐心地工作，做好最坏的打算。他们是俄罗斯人，他是罗马尼亚人。

2 August, midnight.—Woke up from few minutes sleep by hearing a cry, seemingly outside my port. Could see nothing in fog. Rushed on deck, and ran against mate. Tells me he heard cry and ran, but no sign of man on watch. One more gone. Lord, help us! Mate says we must be past Straits of Dover, as in a moment of fog lifting he saw North Foreland, just as he heard the man cry out. If so we are now off in the North Sea, and only God can guide us in the fog, which seems to move with us, and God seems to have deserted us.
8 月 2 日，午夜。——我从几分钟的睡眠中醒来，听到一声叫喊，似乎在我的港口外面。雾里什么也看不见。冲上甲板，撞上大副。告诉我他听到哭声就跑了，但没有人值班的迹象。又一个没了主啊，帮助我们吧！马特说我们一定已经过了多佛海峡，因为在雾气消散的那一刻，他看到了北福兰，就在他听到那个人喊叫的时候。如果是这样，我们现在就在北海了，只有上帝才能在雾中引导我们，雾似乎随着我们移动，而上帝似乎已经抛弃了我们。

3 August.—At midnight I went to relieve the man at the wheel and when I got to it found no one there. The wind was steady, and as we ran before it there was no yawing. I dared not leave it, so shouted for the mate. After a few seconds, he rushed up on deck in his flannels. He looked wild-eyed and haggard, and I greatly fear his reason has given way. He came close to me and whispered hoarsely, with his mouth to my ear, as though fearing the very air might hear. ‘It is here. I know it now. On the watch last night I saw It, like a man, tall and thin, and ghastly pale. It was in the bows, and looking out. I crept behind It, and gave it my knife, but the knife went through It, empty as the air.’ And as he spoke he took the knife and drove it savagely into space. Then he went on, ‘But It is here, and I’ll find It. It is in the hold, perhaps in one of those boxes. I’ll unscrew them one by one and see. You work the helm.’ And with a warning look and his finger on his lip, he went below. There was springing up a choppy wind, and I could not leave the helm. I saw him come out on deck again with a tool chest and lantern, and go down the forward hatchway. He is mad, stark, raving mad, and it’s no use my trying to stop him. He can’t hurt those big boxes, they are invoiced as clay, and to pull them about is as harmless a thing as he can do. So here I stay and mind the helm, and write these notes. I can only trust in God and wait till the fog clears. Then, if I can’t steer to any harbour with the wind that is, I shall cut down sails, and lie by, and signal for help …
8 月 3 日——午夜时分，我去接替掌舵的人，当我到达那里时，发现那里没有人。风很稳定，当我们在风前奔跑时，没有出现偏航。我不敢离开，就喊大副。几秒钟后，他穿着法兰绒冲上甲板。他看上去眼神狂野，憔悴不堪，我担心他的理智已经崩溃了。他靠近我，把嘴贴在我耳边，沙哑地低语着，仿佛生怕连空气都会听见。 '是这里。我现在知道了。昨晚我在手表上看到它，像一个男人，又高又瘦，脸色惨白。它在船头，向外望去。我爬到它后面，给了它我的刀，但刀穿过了它，像空气一样空虚。”当他说话时，他拿起刀，野蛮地把它刺入太空。然后他继续说道：“但它就在这里，我会找到它。”它在货舱里，也许在其中一个盒子里。我会把它们一一拧下来看看。你掌舵。”他用手指放在嘴唇上，露出警告的表情，走下船去。狂风大作，我无法离开舵。我看见他带着工具箱和灯笼再次出现在甲板上，然后沿着前舱口走下去。他疯了，彻底疯了，我试图阻止他是没有用的。他不能伤害那些大箱子，它们的发票就像粘土一样，而拉动它们是他能做的最无害的事情。所以我留在这里掌舵，并写下这些笔记。我只能相信上帝，等待迷雾散去。然后，如果我不能顺风驶向任何港口，也就是说，我会砍掉帆，躺在旁边，发出求救信号……

It is nearly all over now. Just as I was beginning to hope that the mate would come out calmer, for I heard him knocking away at something in the hold, and work is good for him, there came up the hatchway a sudden, startled scream, which made my blood run cold, and up on the deck he came as if shot from a gun, a raging madman, with his eyes rolling and his face convulsed with fear. ‘Save me! Save me!’ he cried, and then looked round on the blanket of fog. His horror turned to despair, and in a steady voice he said, ‘You had better come too, captain, before it is too late. He is there! I know the secret now. The sea will save me from Him, and it is all that is left!’ Before I could say a word, or move forward to seize him, he sprang on the bulwark and deliberately threw himself into the sea. I suppose I know the secret too, now. It was this madman who had got rid of the men one by one, and now he has followed them himself. God help me! How am I to account for all these horrors when I get to port? When I get to port! Will that ever be?
现在一切都差不多结束了。正当我开始希望大副出来时会平静一些，因为我听到他在敲击货舱里的东西，工作对他有好处，舱口突然传来一声惊恐的尖叫声，这让我热血沸腾。寒冷，他来到甲板上，就像是被枪射中的，一个愤怒的疯子，眼睛转动着，脸因恐惧而抽搐。 '救我！救救我！”他喊道，然后在雾气中环顾四周。他的恐惧变成了绝望，他用平稳的声音说道：“你最好也来，队长，否则就太晚了。”他在那里！我现在知道这个秘密了。大海会把我从他手中救出来，只剩下这一切了！”在我开口说话或上前抓住他之前，他跳上舷墙，故意跳进海里。我想我现在也知道这个秘密了。就是这个疯子将那些人一一除掉，现在他自己也跟着他们了。神救救我！当我到达港口时，我该如何解释所有这些恐怖的事情呢？当我到达港口时！会是这样吗？

4 August.—Still fog, which the sunrise cannot pierce, I know there is sunrise because I am a sailor, why else I know not. I dared not go below, I dared not leave the helm, so here all night I stayed, and in the dimness of the night I saw it, Him! God, forgive me, but the mate was right to jump overboard. It was better to die like a man. To die like a sailor in blue water, no man can object. But I am captain, and I must not leave my ship. But I shall baffle this fiend or monster, for I shall tie my hands to the wheel when my strength begins to fail, and along with them I shall tie that which He, It, dare not touch. And then, come good wind or foul, I shall save my soul, and my honour as a captain. I am growing weaker, and the night is coming on. If He can look me in the face again, I may not have time to act… If we are wrecked, mayhap this bottle may be found, and those who find it may understand. If not … well, then all men shall know that I have been true to my trust. God and the Blessed Virgin and the Saints help a poor ignorant soul trying to do his duty …
8月4日——还是雾，日出无法穿透，我知道有日出，因为我是水手，为什么我不知道。我不敢到下面去，我不敢离开掌舵，所以我就在这里呆了一夜，在夜色朦胧中我看见了，他！上帝啊，请原谅我，但大副跳海是对的。最好像个男人一样死去。像水手一样死在蓝色的水中，没有人可以反对。但我是船长，我不能离开我的船。但我将挫败这个恶魔或怪物，因为当我的力量开始衰退时，我将把我的双手绑在方向盘上，并且我将与他们一起绑住他，它不敢碰触的东西。然后，无论顺风还是逆风，我都会拯救我的灵魂，以及我作为船长的荣誉。我的身体越来越虚弱，夜晚即将来临。如果他能再次看到我的脸，我可能没有时间采取行动……如果我们失事了，也许这个瓶子会被找到，找到它的人可能会理解。如果不是……好吧，那么所有人都会知道我一直忠实于我的信任。上帝、圣母和圣徒帮助一个可怜的无知的灵魂试图履行他的职责......

Of course the verdict was an open one. There is no evidence to adduce, and whether or not the man himself committed the murders there is now none to say. The folk here hold almost universally that the captain is simply a hero, and he is to be given a public funeral. Already it is arranged that his body is to be taken with a train of boats up the Esk for a piece and then brought back to Tate Hill Pier and up the abbey steps, for he is to be buried in the churchyard on the cliff. The owners of more than a hundred boats have already given in their names as wishing to follow him to the grave.
当然，判决是公开的。没有任何证据可以举证，也没有人可以说凶手是否是他本人所为。这里的人们几乎普遍认为船长简直就是英雄，应该为他举行公开葬礼。已经安排好，他的尸体将用一列船运到埃斯克河上，然后运回泰特山码头，爬上修道院的台阶，因为他将被埋葬在悬崖上的墓地里。一百多艘船的船主已经纷纷报名，表示愿意追随他到坟墓。

No trace has ever been found of the great dog, at which there is much mourning, for, with public opinion in its present state, he would, I believe, be adopted by the town. Tomorrow will see the funeral, and so will end this one more ‘mystery of the sea’.
一直没有找到这只大狗的踪迹，人们对此表示哀悼，因为就目前的公众舆论而言，我相信它会被镇上收养。明天将举行葬礼，这又一个“海洋之谜”将就此结束。

MINA MURRAY’S JOURNAL
米娜·默里的日记

8 August.—Lucy was very restless all night, and I too, could not sleep. The storm was fearful, and as it boomed loudly among the chimney pots, it made me shudder. When a sharp puff came it seemed to be like a distant gun. Strangely enough, Lucy did not wake, but she got up twice and dressed herself. Fortunately, each time I awoke in time and managed to undress her without waking her, and got her back to bed. It is a very strange thing, this sleep-walking, for as soon as her will is thwarted in any physical way, her intention, if there be any, disappears, and she yields herself almost exactly to the routine of her life.
8 月 8 日——露西整晚都焦躁不安，我也无法入睡。暴风雨很可怕，当它在烟囱里轰鸣时，我不寒而栗。当一声尖锐的噼啪声传来时，它就像是远处的枪声。奇怪的是，露西并没有醒来，但她两次起身穿好衣服。幸运的是，每次我都能及时醒来，并设法在不吵醒她的情况下脱掉她的衣服，然后让她回到床上。这种梦游是一件非常奇怪的事情，因为一旦她的意志受到任何身体上的阻碍，她的意图（如果有的话）就会消失，她几乎完全屈服于她的日常生活。

Early in the morning we both got up and went down to the harbour to see if anything had happened in the night. There were very few people about, and though the sun was bright, and the air clear and fresh, the big, grim-looking waves, that seemed dark themselves because the foam that topped them was like snow, forced themselves in through the mouth of the harbour, like a bullying man going through a crowd. Somehow I felt glad that Jonathan was not on the sea last night, but on land. But, oh, is he on land or sea? Where is he, and how? I am getting fearfully anxious about him. If I only knew what to do, and could do anything!
一大早我们就起床去港口看看晚上有没有发生什么事情。周围人很少，虽然阳光明媚，空气清澈清新，但看上去阴森的大浪，本身看起来很黑，因为上面的泡沫像雪一样，从海口强行涌入。港口，就像一个横行霸道的人穿过人群。不知何故，我很高兴乔纳森昨晚不在海上，而是在陆地上。但是，哦，他是在陆地上还是在海上？他在哪里，怎么样？我对他感到非常焦虑。如果我知道该做什么，并且能做任何事就好了！

10 August.—The funeral of the poor sea captain today was most touching. Every boat in the harbour seemed to be there, and the coffin was carried by captains all the way from Tate Hill Pier up to the churchyard. Lucy came with me, and we went early to our old seat, whilst the cortege of boats went up the river to the Viaduct and came down again. We had a lovely view, and saw the procession nearly all the way. The poor fellow was laid to rest near our seat so that we stood on it, when the time came and saw everything.
8 月 10 日——今天可怜的船长的葬礼最感人。港口里的每条船似乎都在那里，棺材被船长们从泰特山码头一路抬到教堂墓地。露西和我一起来，我们早早回到了原来的座位，而船队则沿河而上，到达高架桥，然后又下来。我们的景色很美，几乎一路都看到了游行队伍。这个可怜的家伙被安放在我们座位附近，以便我们站在上面，到时候可以看到一切。

Poor Lucy seemed much upset. She was restless and uneasy all the time, and I cannot but think that her dreaming at night is telling on her. She is quite odd in one thing. She will not admit to me that there is any cause for restlessness, or if there be, she does not understand it herself.
可怜的露西看上去很沮丧。她一直焦躁不安，我不得不认为她晚上的梦在告诉她。她在一件事上很奇怪。她不会向我承认有任何不安的原因，或者即使有，她自己也不明白。

There is an additional cause in that poor Mr. Swales was found dead this morning on our seat, his neck being broken. He had evidently, as the doctor said, fallen back in the seat in some sort of fright, for there was a look of fear and horror on his face that the men said made them shudder. Poor dear old man!
还有一个原因是可怜的斯韦尔斯先生今天早上被发现死在我们的座位上，他的脖子被折断了。正如医生所说，他显然是因为某种惊吓而向后倒在座位上，因为他脸上有一种恐惧和恐惧的表情，人们说这让他们不寒而栗。可怜的亲爱的老人！

Lucy is so sweet and sensitive that she feels influences more acutely than other people do. Just now she was quite upset by a little thing which I did not much heed, though I am myself very fond of animals.
露西是如此可爱和敏感，以至于她比其他人更能敏锐地感受到影响。刚才她因为一件我没有太在意的小事而感到不安，虽然我自己很喜欢动物。

One of the men who came up here often to look for the boats was followed by his dog. The dog is always with him. They are both quiet persons, and I never saw the man angry, nor heard the dog bark. During the service the dog would not come to its master, who was on the seat with us, but kept a few yards off, barking and howling. Its master spoke to it gently, and then harshly, and then angrily. But it would neither come nor cease to make a noise. It was in a fury, with its eyes savage, and all its hair bristling out like a cat’s tail when puss is on the war path.
其中一位经常来这里寻找船只的男子身后跟着他的狗。狗总是和他在一起。他们都是安静的人，我从未见过男人生气，也没有听到狗叫。在仪式期间，狗不会来到它的主人身边，而主人和我们坐在一起，而是保持几码远，吠叫和嚎叫。它的主人对它说话轻柔，然后严厉，然后愤怒。但它既不来也不停止发出噪音。它怒目而视，目光凶残，毛发如猫尾巴一般竖立在战场上。

Finally the man too got angry, and jumped down and kicked the dog, and then took it by the scruff of the neck and half dragged and half threw it on the tombstone on which the seat is fixed. The moment it touched the stone the poor thing began to tremble. It did not try to get away, but crouched down, quivering and cowering, and was in such a pitiable state of terror that I tried, though without effect, to comfort it.
最后那人也生气了，跳下来踢了狗一脚，然后揪住它的颈背，半拖半扔地扔到了固定座位的墓碑上。当它碰到石头的那一刻，可怜的东西开始颤抖。它并没有试图逃跑，而是蹲了下来，浑身颤抖，畏缩着，处于一种可怜的恐惧状态，我试图安慰它，但没有效果。

Lucy was full of pity, too, but she did not attempt to touch the dog, but looked at it in an agonised sort of way. I greatly fear that she is of too super sensitive a nature to go through the world without trouble. She will be dreaming of this tonight, I am sure. The whole agglomeration of things, the ship steered into port by a dead man, his attitude, tied to the wheel with a crucifix and beads, the touching funeral, the dog, now furious and now in terror, will all afford material for her dreams.
露西也满脸怜悯，但她并没有试图去触碰那只狗，而是用一种痛苦的眼神看着它。我非常担心她的天性过于敏感，无法顺利地度过这个世界。我确信她今晚会梦见这个。一切事物的集合，船被一个死人驶入港口，他的态度，用十字架和珠子绑在轮子上，感人的葬礼，狗，时而愤怒，时而恐惧，都将为她的梦想提供素材。

I think it will be best for her to go to bed tired out physically, so I shall take her for a long walk by the cliffs to Robin Hood’s Bay and back. She ought not to have much inclination for sleep-walking then.
我认为她最好在身体疲惫的时候上床睡觉，所以我会带她沿着悬崖散步很长一段路，往返于罗宾汉湾。那么她应该不会有太大的梦游倾向。

Chapter 8
第8章

MINA MURRAY’S JOURNAL
米娜·默里的日记

Same day, 11 o’clock P.M.—Oh, but I am tired! If it were not that I had made my diary a duty I should not open it tonight. We had a lovely walk. Lucy, after a while, was in gay spirits, owing, I think, to some dear cows who came nosing towards us in a field close to the lighthouse, and frightened the wits out of us. I believe we forgot everything, except of course, personal fear, and it seemed to wipe the slate clean and give us a fresh start. We had a capital ‘severe tea’ at Robin Hood’s Bay in a sweet little old-fashioned inn, with a bow window right over the seaweed-covered rocks of the strand. I believe we should have shocked the ‘New Woman’ with our appetites. Men are more tolerant, bless them! Then we walked home with some, or rather many, stoppages to rest, and with our hearts full of a constant dread of wild bulls.
同一天，晚上 11 点——哦，但我累了！如果不是我把写日记当成了一项义务，我今晚就不会打开它。我们散步得很开心。过了一会儿，露西心情愉快，我想，这要归功于一些可爱的奶牛，它们在灯塔附近的田野里向我们嗅来嗅去，把我们吓得魂飞魄散。我相信我们忘记了一切，当然，除了个人的恐惧，它似乎把过去的一切都擦干净了，给了我们一个新的开始。我们在罗宾汉湾的一家温馨的老式小旅馆里喝了一顿顶级的“重茶”，旅馆的一扇弓形窗户正对着海岸上长满海藻的岩石。我相信我们应该用我们的胃口震惊“新女性”。男人更宽容，祝福他们！然后我们走回家，中间有一些，或者更确切地说，有很多次停留休息，心里充满了对野牛的持续恐惧。

Lucy was really tired, and we intended to creep off to bed as soon as we could. The young curate came in, however, and Mrs. Westenra asked him to stay for supper. Lucy and I had both a fight for it with the dusty miller. I know it was a hard fight on my part, and I am quite heroic. I think that some day the bishops must get together and see about breeding up a new class of curates, who don’t take supper, no matter how hard they may be pressed to, and who will know when girls are tired.
露西真的很累，我们打算尽快爬上床睡觉。然而，年轻的牧师进来了，韦斯特拉夫人请他留下来吃晚饭。露西和我都和尘土飞扬的磨坊主发生了争执。我知道这是一场艰苦的战斗，我也很英勇。我认为有一天，主教们必须聚在一起，考虑培养一个新的牧师阶层，他们不吃晚饭，无论他们受到多大的压力，谁会知道女孩们什么时候累了。

Lucy is asleep and breathing softly. She has more colour in her cheeks than usual, and looks, oh so sweet. If Mr. Holmwood fell in love with her seeing her only in the drawing room, I wonder what he would say if he saw her now. Some of the ‘New Women’ writers will some day start an idea that men and women should be allowed to see each other asleep before proposing or accepting. But I suppose the ‘New Woman’ won’t condescend in future to accept. She will do the proposing herself. And a nice job she will make of it too! There’s some consolation in that. I am so happy tonight, because dear Lucy seems better. I really believe she has turned the corner, and that we are over her troubles with dreaming. I should be quite happy if I only knew if Jonathan … God bless and keep him.
露西已经睡着了，呼吸轻柔。她的脸颊比平时更加​​红润，看上去非常甜美。如果霍姆伍德先生只在客厅里看到她就爱上了她，我想知道如果他现在看到她会说什么。一些“新女性”作家有一天会提出一个想法，即应该允许男人和女人在求婚或接受之前看到对方熟睡。但我想“新女性”将来不会屈尊接受。她会亲自求婚。她也会做得很好！这有一些安慰。今晚我很高兴，因为亲爱的露西看起来好多了。我真的相信她已经渡过难关，我们也已经克服了她的梦想困难。如果我知道乔纳森是否……上帝保佑并保留他，我应该会很高兴。

11 August.—Diary again. No sleep now, so I may as well write. I am too agitated to sleep. We have had such an adventure, such an agonizing experience. I fell asleep as soon as I had closed my diary. … Suddenly I became broad awake, and sat up, with a horrible sense of fear upon me, and of some feeling of emptiness around me. The room was dark, so I could not see Lucy’s bed. I stole across and felt for her. The bed was empty. I lit a match and found that she was not in the room. The door was shut, but not locked, as I had left it. I feared to wake her mother, who has been more than usually ill lately, so threw on some clothes and got ready to look for her. As I was leaving the room it struck me that the clothes she wore might give me some clue to her dreaming intention. Dressing-gown would mean house, dress outside. Dressing-gown and dress were both in their places. ‘Thank God,’ I said to myself, ‘she cannot be far, as she is only in her nightdress.’
8 月 11 日——再次写日记。现在睡不着了，所以我还是写一下吧。我太激动了，睡不着。我们经历过这样的冒险，这样的痛苦经历。我一合上日记就睡着了。 ……突然我完全清醒了，坐了起来，一种可怕的恐惧感袭上心头，周围空荡荡的。房间很黑，所以我看不到露西的床。我偷偷过去，摸索她的感受。床是空的。我点燃了一根火柴，发现她不在房间里。门关着，但没有锁，就像我离开时那样。我怕吵醒她的母亲，她最近病得比平时更严重，所以就穿上衣服准备去找她。当我离开房间时，我突然意识到她穿的衣服可能会给我一些关于她做梦的意图的线索。晨衣意味着房子，衣服在外面。晨衣和礼服都已就位。 “感谢上帝，”我对自己说，“她不可能走得太远，因为她只穿着睡衣。”

I ran downstairs and looked in the sitting room. Not there! Then I looked in all the other rooms of the house, with an ever-growing fear chilling my heart. Finally, I came to the hall door and found it open. It was not wide open, but the catch of the lock had not caught. The people of the house are careful to lock the door every night, so I feared that Lucy must have gone out as she was. There was no time to think of what might happen. A vague over-mastering fear obscured all details.
我跑下楼，朝客厅里看去。不在那里！然后我看了看房子里的所有其他房间，一种越来越强烈的恐惧让我的心发冷。终于，我来到大厅门口，发现门开着。门没有完全打开，但锁的扣子还没有扣住。家里的人每天晚上都小心翼翼地把门锁上，所以我担心露西一定是这样出去的。没有时间去想会发生什么。一种模糊的过度控制的恐惧掩盖了所有细节。

I took a big, heavy shawl and ran out. The clock was striking one as I was in the Crescent, and there was not a soul in sight. I ran along the North Terrace, but could see no sign of the white figure which I expected. At the edge of the West Cliff above the pier I looked across the harbour to the East Cliff, in the hope or fear, I don’t know which, of seeing Lucy in our favourite seat.
我拿了一条又大又重的披肩就跑了出去。时钟正在敲响，就像我在新月区一样，但看不见一个人影。我沿着北台跑去，却没有看到我所期待的那个白色人影的踪影。在码头上方西悬崖的边缘，我望向港口对面的东悬崖，我不知道是希望还是害怕，看到露西坐在我们最喜欢的座位上。

There was a bright full moon, with heavy black, driving clouds, which threw the whole scene into a fleeting diorama of light and shade as they sailed across. For a moment or two I could see nothing, as the shadow of a cloud obscured St. Mary’s Church and all around it. Then as the cloud passed I could see the ruins of the abbey coming into view, and as the edge of a narrow band of light as sharp as a sword-cut moved along, the church and churchyard became gradually visible. Whatever my expectation was, it was not disappointed, for there, on our favourite seat, the silver light of the moon struck a half-reclining figure, snowy white. The coming of the cloud was too quick for me to see much, for shadow shut down on light almost immediately, but it seemed to me as though something dark stood behind the seat where the white figure shone, and bent over it. What it was, whether man or beast, I could not tell.
当他们航行时，一轮明亮的满月，厚重的黑色云朵将整个场景变成了一个转瞬即逝的光影立体模型。有那么一两分钟，我什么也看不见，因为云的阴影遮住了圣玛丽教堂及其周围的一切。然后，随着云彩过去，修道院的废墟映入眼帘，随着一道锐利如剑的光带的边缘移动，教堂和教堂墓地逐渐清晰可见。不管我的期望是什么，它并没有令我失望，因为在我们最喜欢的座位上，银色的月光照在一个半躺着的人影上，雪白的。云的到来太快了，我看不到太多东西，因为阴影几乎立即遮住了光线，但在我看来，好像有一个黑暗的东西站在白色人物发光的座位后面，并弯下腰。那是什么，是人还是兽，我分不清。

I did not wait to catch another glance, but flew down the steep steps to the pier and along by the fish-market to the bridge, which was the only way to reach the East Cliff. The town seemed as dead, for not a soul did I see. I rejoiced that it was so, for I wanted no witness of poor Lucy’s condition. The time and distance seemed endless, and my knees trembled and my breath came laboured as I toiled up the endless steps to the abbey. I must have gone fast, and yet it seemed to me as if my feet were weighted with lead, and as though every joint in my body were rusty.
我来不及多看一眼，便顺着陡峭的台阶飞奔到码头，顺着鱼市来到桥上，这是到达东崖的必经之路。这座小镇似乎死了一样，因为我没有看到一个人影。我很高兴事实如此，因为我不想看到可怜的露西的状况。时间和距离似乎无穷无尽，当我费力地走上通往修道院的无尽台阶时，我的膝盖颤抖，呼吸困难。我一定走得很快，但我的脚却像灌了铅一样沉重，身体的每个关节都生锈了。

When I got almost to the top I could see the seat and the white figure, for I was now close enough to distinguish it even through the spells of shadow. There was undoubtedly something, long and black, bending over the half-reclining white figure. I called in fright, ‘Lucy! Lucy!’ and something raised a head, and from where I was I could see a white face and red, gleaming eyes.
当我几乎到达山顶时，我可以看到座位和白色的人影，因为我现在足够近，即使通过阴影的咒语也能区分它。毫无疑问，有什么东西，又长又黑，压在半躺着的白色人身上。我惊恐地喊道：‘露西！露西！”然后有什么东西抬起了头，从我所在的地方我可以看到一张白色的脸和红色的、闪闪发光的眼睛。

Lucy did not answer, and I ran on to the entrance of the churchyard. As I entered, the church was between me and the seat, and for a minute or so I lost sight of her. When I came in view again the cloud had passed, and the moonlight struck so brilliantly that I could see Lucy half reclining with her head lying over the back of the seat. She was quite alone, and there was not a sign of any living thing about.
露西没有回答，我跑到教堂墓地的入口处。当我进去时，教堂就在我和座位之间，大约有一分钟左右的时间我就看不见她了。当我再次看到时，云已经过去了，月光如此明亮，我可以看到露西半斜着，头靠在椅背上。她孤身一人，周围没有任何生物的迹象。

When I bent over her I could see that she was still asleep. Her lips were parted, and she was breathing, not softly as usual with her, but in long, heavy gasps, as though striving to get her lungs full at every breath. As I came close, she put up her hand in her sleep and pulled the collar of her nightdress close around her, as though she felt the cold. I flung the warm shawl over her, and drew the edges tight around her neck, for I dreaded lest she should get some deadly chill from the night air, unclad as she was. I feared to wake her all at once, so, in order to have my hands free to help her, I fastened the shawl at her throat with a big safety pin. But I must have been clumsy in my anxiety and pinched or pricked her with it, for by-and-by, when her breathing became quieter, she put her hand to her throat again and moaned. When I had her carefully wrapped up I put my shoes on her feet, and then began very gently to wake her.
当我弯下腰看她时，我发现她还在睡觉。她的嘴唇张开，呼吸的声音不像平常那​​样轻柔，而是长长的、沉重的喘息声，仿佛每次呼吸都努力让肺部充满空气。当我走近时，她在睡梦中举起手，把睡衣的领子拉近，裹住自己，仿佛感觉到了寒冷。我把温暖的围巾披在她身上，把围巾的边缘紧紧地围住她的脖子，因为我担心她赤身裸体，会从夜晚的空气中感受到致命的寒冷。我害怕一下子吵醒她，所以，为了腾出双手来帮助她，我用一根大安全别针将披肩固定在她的喉咙处。但我一定是因为焦虑而笨手笨脚地用它捏或刺了她，因为不久，当她的呼吸变得更平静时，她又把手放在喉咙上呻吟起来。当我小心地把她包裹起来后，我把鞋子放在她的脚上，然后开始非常温柔地叫醒她。

At first she did not respond, but gradually she became more and more uneasy in her sleep, moaning and sighing occasionally. At last, as time was passing fast, and for many other reasons, I wished to get her home at once, I shook her forcibly, till finally she opened her eyes and awoke. She did not seem surprised to see me, as, of course, she did not realize all at once where she was.
起初她没有反应，但渐渐地，她睡得越来越不安，时不时地呻吟、叹气。最后，由于时间过得很快，加上种种原因，我想尽快送她回家，我用力摇晃着她，直到她睁开了眼睛，醒了。她看到我似乎并不感到惊讶，因为当然，她并没有立刻意识到自己在哪里。

Lucy always wakes prettily, and even at such a time, when her body must have been chilled with cold, and her mind somewhat appalled at waking unclad in a churchyard at night, she did not lose her grace. She trembled a little, and clung to me. When I told her to come at once with me home, she rose without a word, with the obedience of a child. As we passed along, the gravel hurt my feet, and Lucy noticed me wince. She stopped and wanted to insist upon my taking my shoes, but I would not. However, when we got to the pathway outside the chruchyard, where there was a puddle of water, remaining from the storm, I daubed my feet with mud, using each foot in turn on the other, so that as we went home, no one, in case we should meet any one, should notice my bare feet.
露西总是漂亮地醒来，即使在这样的时候，当她的身体一定已经冻僵了，她的思想对夜里在教堂墓地里赤身裸体醒来感到有些震惊时，她也没有失去她的优雅。她有点颤抖，紧紧地抱住我。当我叫她立刻跟我回家时，她一言不发地站了起来，像个孩子一样顺从。当我们经过时，碎石弄痛了我的脚，露西注意到我皱起了眉头。她停下来，坚持要我拿走鞋子，但我不肯。然而，当我们走到墓地外的小路上时，那里有一滩暴风雨留下的水，我把泥涂在脚上，一只脚轮流用另一只脚，这样我们回家的时候就没有人了。 ，万一我们遇到任何人，请注意我的赤脚。

Fortune favoured us, and we got home without meeting a soul. Once we saw a man, who seemed not quite sober, passing along a street in front of us. But we hid in a door till he had disappeared up an opening such as there are here, steep little closes, or ‘wynds’, as they call them in Scotland. My heart beat so loud all the time sometimes I thought I should faint. I was filled with anxiety about Lucy, not only for her health, lest she should suffer from the exposure, but for her reputation in case the story should get wind. When we got in, and had washed our feet, and had said a prayer of thankfulness together, I tucked her into bed. Before falling asleep she asked, even implored, me not to say a word to any one, even her mother, about her sleep-walking adventure.
幸运之神眷顾了我们，我们没有见到任何人就回到家了。有一次，我们看到一个看上去不太清醒的男人从我们前面的街道上走过。但我们躲在一扇门里，直到他消失在一个开口处，就像这里的那样，陡峭的小关口，或苏格兰人所说的“小弯道”。我的心跳声一直很大，有时我觉得我应该晕倒。我对露西充满了焦虑，不仅是为了她的健康，以免她受到曝光的影响，而且是为了她的声誉，以防这件事传出去。当我们进去后，洗了脚，一起做了感恩的祈祷，我把她掖到床上。入睡前，她要求，甚至恳求我不要对任何人，甚至她的母亲，说起她的梦游冒险。

I hesitated at first, to promise, but on thinking of the state of her mother’s health, and how the knowledge of such a thing would fret her, and think too, of how such a story might become distorted, nay, infallibly would, in case it should leak out, I thought it wiser to do so. I hope I did right. I have locked the door, and the key is tied to my wrist, so perhaps I shall not be again disturbed. Lucy is sleeping soundly. The reflex of the dawn is high and far over the sea …
一开始我犹豫着要不要答应，但想到她母亲的健康状况，以及知道这样的事情会让她多么烦恼，而且还想到这样一个故事可能会如何被扭曲，不，绝对会，在万一它泄露出去，我认为这样做更明智。我希望我做对了。我已经锁上了门，钥匙绑在我的手腕上，所以也许我不会再被打扰了。露西睡得很香。黎明的反射在海面上又高又远……

Same day, noon.—All goes well. Lucy slept till I woke her and seemed not to have even changed her side. The adventure of the night does not seem to have harmed her, on the contrary, it has benefited her, for she looks better this morning than she has done for weeks. I was sorry to notice that my clumsiness with the safety-pin hurt her. Indeed, it might have been serious, for the skin of her throat was pierced. I must have pinched up a piece of loose skin and have transfixed it, for there are two little red points like pin-pricks, and on the band of her nightdress was a drop of blood. When I apologised and was concerned about it, she laughed and petted me, and said she did not even feel it. Fortunately it cannot leave a scar, as it is so tiny.
同一天，中午。——一切顺利。露西一直睡着，直到我叫醒她，她的姿势似乎都没有改变。今晚的冒险似乎并没有伤害她，相反，这让她受益匪浅，因为她今天早上看起来比几个星期以来的状态都要好。我很遗憾地发现我笨拙地使用安全别针伤害了她。确实，情况可能很严重，因为她喉咙的皮肤被刺穿了。我一定是捏起一块松弛的皮肤，把它固定住了，因为有两个像针刺一样的小红点，在她睡衣的带子上有一滴血。当我道歉并担心时，她笑着抚摸我，说她根本没有感觉到。幸运的是，它不会留下疤痕，因为它很小。

Same day, night.—We passed a happy day. The air was clear, and the sun bright, and there was a cool breeze. We took our lunch to Mulgrave Woods, Mrs. Westenra driving by the road and Lucy and I walking by the cliff-path and joining her at the gate. I felt a little sad myself, for I could not but feel how absolutely happy it would have been had Jonathan been with me. But there! I must only be patient. In the evening we strolled in the Casino Terrace, and heard some good music by Spohr and Mackenzie, and went to bed early. Lucy seems more restful than she has been for some time, and fell asleep at once. I shall lock the door and secure the key the same as before, though I do not expect any trouble tonight.
同一天，同一个晚上。——我们度过了快乐的一天。空气清新，阳光明媚，微风徐徐。我们把午餐带到马尔格雷夫伍兹，韦斯特拉夫人开车沿着路走，露西和我沿着悬崖小路走，在门口与她汇合。我自己也感到有点难过，因为我情不自禁地感到，如果乔纳森和我在一起的话，那该是多么幸福啊。但是就在那里！我必须要有耐心。晚上，我们在Casino Terrace闲逛，听了Spohr和Mackenzie的一些好听的音乐，然后就早早上床睡觉了。露西似乎比以前更安宁了，立刻就睡着了。我会像以前一样锁上门并保管好钥匙，不过我预计今晚不会有任何麻烦。

12 August.—My expectations were wrong, for twice during the night I was wakened by Lucy trying to get out. She seemed, even in her sleep, to be a little impatient at finding the door shut, and went back to bed under a sort of protest. I woke with the dawn, and heard the birds chirping outside of the window. Lucy woke, too, and I was glad to see, was even better than on the previous morning. All her old gaiety of manner seemed to have come back, and she came and snuggled in beside me and told me all about Arthur. I told her how anxious I was about Jonathan, and then she tried to comfort me. Well, she succeeded somewhat, for, though sympathy can’t alter facts, it can make them more bearable.
8 月 12 日——我的期望是错误的，因为晚上我两次被试图出去的露西吵醒。即使在睡梦中，她似乎对门关着感到有点不耐烦，带着某种抗议又回到了床上。天亮了我就醒了，听见窗外鸟儿叽叽喳喳的叫声。露西也醒了，我很高兴看到她比前一天早上好多了。她以前那种欢乐的举止似乎又回来了，她过来依偎在我身边，告诉我关于亚瑟的一切。我告诉她我对乔纳森有多担心，然后她试图安慰我。好吧，她在某种程度上成功了，因为虽然同情不能改变事实，但它可以让事实变得更容易忍受。

13 August.—Another quiet day, and to bed with the key on my wrist as before. Again I awoke in the night, and found Lucy sitting up in bed, still asleep, pointing to the window. I got up quietly, and pulling aside the blind, looked out. It was brilliant moonlight, and the soft effect of the light over the sea and sky, merged together in one great silent mystery, was beautiful beyond words. Between me and the moonlight flitted a great bat, coming and going in great whirling circles. Once or twice it came quite close, but was, I suppose, frightened at seeing me, and flitted away across the harbour towards the abbey. When I came back from the window Lucy had lain down again, and was sleeping peacefully. She did not stir again all night.
8 月 13 日——又是安静的一天，和以前一样，钥匙挂在手腕上睡觉。夜里我再次醒来，发现露西坐在床上，仍然睡着，指着窗户。我悄悄起身，拉开百叶窗，向外看去。那是灿烂的月光，海面和天空上的光线柔和的效果，融合在一起，形成一个巨大的沉默的神秘，美丽得无法形容。一只巨大的蝙蝠在我和月光之间飞来飞去，绕着巨大的旋转圈来来去去。有一两次它离我很近，但我猜它是因为看到我而害怕，然后飞过港口朝修道院飞去。当我从窗户回来时，露西又躺了下来，睡得很安稳。整个晚上她都没有再动过。

14 August.—On the East Cliff, reading and writing all day. Lucy seems to have become as much in love with the spot as I am, and it is hard to get her away from it when it is time to come home for lunch or tea or dinner. This afternoon she made a funny remark. We were coming home for dinner, and had come to the top of the steps up from the West Pier and stopped to look at the view, as we generally do. The setting sun, low down in the sky, was just dropping behind Kettleness. The red light was thrown over on the East Cliff and the old abbey, and seemed to bathe everything in a beautiful rosy glow. We were silent for a while, and suddenly Lucy murmured as if to herself …
8月14日——在东崖，整天读书写字。露西似乎和我一样爱上了这个地方，当她回家吃午餐、喝茶或晚餐时，很难让她离开这里。今天下午她说了一句有趣的话。我们回家吃晚饭，从西码头来到台阶顶端，停下来看看风景，就像我们平常做的那样。夕阳低垂在天空中，刚刚落到凯特尼斯身后。红光洒满了东崖和古老的修道院，似乎给一切都沐浴上了美丽的玫瑰色光芒。我们沉默了一会儿，突然露西仿佛自言自语般低声说道……

‘His red eyes again! They are just the same.’ It was such an odd expression, coming apropos of nothing, that it quite startled me. I slewed round a little, so as to see Lucy well without seeming to stare at her, and saw that she was in a half dreamy state, with an odd look on her face that I could not quite make out, so I said nothing, but followed her eyes. She appeared to be looking over at our own seat, whereon was a dark figure seated alone. I was quite a little startled myself, for it seemed for an instant as if the stranger had great eyes like burning flames, but a second look dispelled the illusion. The red sunlight was shining on the windows of St. Mary’s Church behind our seat, and as the sun dipped there was just sufficient change in the refraction and reflection to make it appear as if the light moved. I called Lucy’s attention to the peculiar effect, and she became herself with a start, but she looked sad all the same. It may have been that she was thinking of that terrible night up there. We never refer to it, so I said nothing, and we went home to dinner. Lucy had a headache and went early to bed. I saw her asleep, and went out for a little stroll myself.
‘他的眼睛又红了！他们是一样的。”这是一种如此奇怪的表达方式，毫无意义，让我大吃一惊。我稍微转了个身，以便能清楚地看到露西，但又不想盯着她看，发现她处于半梦半醒的状态，脸上带着一种我看不清的奇怪表情，所以我什么也没说，但还是顺着她的目光看去。她似乎在看我们自己的座位，那里有一个黑色的人影独自坐着。我自己也有点吃惊，因为有那么一瞬间，这个陌生人似乎有一双像燃烧的火焰一样的大眼睛，但再看一眼，我的错觉就消失了。红色的阳光照在我们座位后面的圣玛丽教堂的窗户上，当太阳落山时，折射和反射发生了足够的变化，看起来好像光线在移动。我让露西注意这种奇特的效果，她吓了一跳，但她看起来仍然很悲伤。也许她正在回想那里那个可怕的夜晚。我们从来没有提起过这件事，所以我什么也没说，然后我们就回家吃晚饭了。露西头疼，很早就上床睡觉了。我看到她睡着了，我自己也出去散步了。

I walked along the cliffs to the westward, and was full of sweet sadness, for I was thinking of Jonathan. When coming home, it was then bright moonlight, so bright that, though the front of our part of the Crescent was in shadow, everything could be well seen, I threw a glance up at our window, and saw Lucy’s head leaning out. I opened my handkerchief and waved it. She did not notice or make any movement whatever. Just then, the moonlight crept round an angle of the building, and the light fell on the window. There distinctly was Lucy with her head lying up against the side of the window sill and her eyes shut. She was fast asleep, and by her, seated on the window sill, was something that looked like a good-sized bird. I was afraid she might get a chill, so I ran upstairs, but as I came into the room she was moving back to her bed, fast asleep, and breathing heavily. She was holding her hand to her throat, as though to protect if from the cold.
我沿着悬崖向西走，心里充满了甜蜜的悲伤，因为我想起了乔纳森。回到家时，月光明亮，月光明亮，虽然我们那儿的月牙区前面有阴影，但一切都看得清清楚楚，我抬头看了一眼窗子，看见露西的头探了出来。我打开手帕，挥舞着。她没有注意到，也没有做出任何动作。就在这时，月光从大楼的一个角落爬过来，落在窗户上。显然，露西正把头靠在窗台边，闭着眼睛。她睡得很熟，在她身边，窗台上坐着一个看起来像一只大鸟的东西。我怕她着凉，就跑上楼，但当我走进房间时，她已经回到床上，呼呼大睡，呼呼大睡。她把手放在喉咙上，仿佛是为了御寒。

I did not wake her, but tucked her up warmly. I have taken care that the door is locked and the window securely fastened.
我没有叫醒她，只是给她盖好被子。我已确保门已锁好，窗户也已紧固。

She looks so sweet as she sleeps, but she is paler than is her wont, and there is a drawn, haggard look under her eyes which I do not like. I fear she is fretting about something. I wish I could find out what it is.
她睡着时看起来很甜美，但她比平常更苍白，眼睛下面有一种我不喜欢的憔悴、憔悴的表情。我担心她正在为某事烦恼。我希望我能找出它是什么。

15 August.—Rose later than usual. Lucy was languid and tired, and slept on after we had been called. We had a happy surprise at breakfast. Arthur’s father is better, and wants the marriage to come off soon. Lucy is full of quiet joy, and her mother is glad and sorry at once. Later on in the day she told me the cause. She is grieved to lose Lucy as her very own, but she is rejoiced that she is soon to have some one to protect her. Poor dear, sweet lady! She confided to me that she has got her death warrant. She has not told Lucy, and made me promise secrecy. Her doctor told her that within a few months, at most, she must die, for her heart is weakening. At any time, even now, a sudden shock would be almost sure to kill her. Ah, we were wise to keep from her the affair of the dreadful night of Lucy’s sleep-walking.
8 月 15 日——比平时起得晚。露西又疲倦又无精打采，我们被叫到后就继续睡着了。早餐时我们有一个惊喜。亚瑟的父亲情况好多了，希望婚姻尽快结束。露西心里充满了安静的喜悦，她的妈妈既高兴又抱歉。当天晚些时候，她告诉了我原因。她为失去自己的露西而感到悲痛，但她很高兴很快就会有一个人来保护她。可怜的、亲爱的、可爱的女士！她向我透露，她已经收到了死刑令。她没有告诉露西，并让我答应保密。她的医生告诉她，最多几个月她就会死，因为她的心脏正在衰弱。任何时候，哪怕是现在，突然的冲击几乎肯定会杀死她。啊，我们明智地不让她知道露西梦游的那个可怕的夜晚。

17 August.—No diary for two whole days. I have not had the heart to write. Some sort of shadowy pall seems to be coming over our happiness. No news from Jonathan, and Lucy seems to be growing weaker, whilst her mother’s hours are numbering to a close. I do not understand Lucy’s fading away as she is doing. She eats well and sleeps well, and enjoys the fresh air, but all the time the roses in her cheeks are fading, and she gets weaker and more languid day by day. At night I hear her gasping as if for air.
8 月 17 日——整整两天没有写日记。我一直没有心情写。某种阴暗的阴影似乎笼罩着我们的幸福。乔纳森没有消息，露西似乎越来越虚弱，而她母亲的时间也即将结束。我不明白露西正在逐渐消失。她吃得好，睡得好，享受着新鲜的空气，但脸颊上的玫瑰却一直在凋谢，她一天天变得虚弱无精打采。晚上我听到她喘气，好像在呼吸空气。

I keep the key of our door always fastened to my wrist at night, but she gets up and walks about the room, and sits at the open window. Last night I found her leaning out when I woke up, and when I tried to wake her I could not.
晚上我总是把门钥匙挂在手腕上，但她却起身在房间里走来走去，然后坐在开着的窗户旁。昨晚我醒来时发现她靠在外面，当我试图叫醒她时却叫不醒。

She was in a faint. When I managed to restore her, she was weak as water, and cried silently between long, painful struggles for breath. When I asked her how she came to be at the window she shook her head and turned away.
她昏了过去。当我设法让她恢复过来时，她已经虚弱如水，在漫长而痛苦的呼吸挣扎中默默哭泣。当我问她怎么来到窗前时，她摇摇头，转身走开。

I trust her feeling ill may not be from that unlucky prick of the safety-pin. I looked at her throat just now as she lay asleep, and the tiny wounds seem not to have healed. They are still open, and, if anything, larger than before, and the edges of them are faintly white. They are like little white dots with red centres. Unless they heal within a day or two, I shall insist on the doctor seeing about them.
我相信她感到不舒服可能不是因为安全别针被不幸刺破了。刚才我看着她睡着的喉咙，细小的伤口似乎还没有愈合。它们仍然是敞开的，而且，如果有什么不同的话，那就是比以前更大，而且它们的边缘呈淡淡的白色。它们就像带有红色中心的小白点。除非他们在一两天内痊愈，否则我会坚持让医生给他们看病。

LETTER, SAMUEL F. BILLINGTON & SON, SOLICITORS WHITBY, TO MESSRS. CARTER, PATERSON & CO., LONDON.
惠特比塞缪尔·F·比林顿父子律师致先生的信。卡特·帕特森公司，伦敦。

17 August
8 月 17 日

‘Dear Sirs,—Herewith please receive invoice of goods sent by Great Northern Railway. Same are to be delivered at Carfax, near Purfleet, immediately on receipt at goods station King’s Cross. The house is at present empty, but enclosed please find keys, all of which are labelled.
尊敬的先生们： 谨此收受大北铁路寄来的货物发票。同样的货物将在国王十字车站收到后立即运送到珀弗利特附近的卡法克斯。房子目前是空的，但请找到钥匙，所有钥匙都贴有标签。

‘You will please deposit the boxes, fifty in number, which form the consignment, in the partially ruined building forming part of the house and marked ‘A’ on rough diagrams enclosed. Your agent will easily recognize the locality, as it is the ancient chapel of the mansion. The goods leave by the train at 9:30 tonight, and will be due at King’s Cross at 4:30 tomorrow afternoon. As our client wishes the delivery made as soon as possible, we shall be obliged by your having teams ready at King’s Cross at the time named and forthwith conveying the goods to destination. In order to obviate any delays possible through any routine requirements as to payment in your departments, we enclose cheque herewith for ten pounds, receipt of which please acknowledge. Should the charge be less than this amount, you can return balance, if greater, we shall at once send cheque for difference on hearing from you. You are to leave the keys on coming away in the main hall of the house, where the proprietor may get them on his entering the house by means of his duplicate key.
“请您将这批货物的五十个箱子存放在构成房屋一部分的部分毁坏的建筑中，并在随附的粗略图表上标记“A”。您的代理人会很容易认出该地点，因为它是豪宅的古老教堂。货物将于今晚 9:30 由火车出发，将于明天下午 4:30 抵达国王十字车站。由于我们的客户希望尽快交货，因此我们有义务让您的团队在指定时间在 King's Cross 做好准备，并立即将货物运送到目的地。为了避免因贵部门的常规付款要求而造成的任何延误，我们随函附上 10 英镑的支票，请确认已收到。如果费用低于此金额，您可以退还余额，如果费用高于此金额，我们将在收到您的回复后立即寄出差额支票。您离开时请将钥匙留在房屋的主厅，业主可以在进入房屋时使用他的副本钥匙领取钥匙。

‘Pray do not take us as exceeding the bounds of business courtesy in pressing you in all ways to use the utmost expedition.
“请不要认为我们以各种方式催促您尽最大努力，这超出了商业礼节的范围。

‘We are, dear Sirs, ‘Faithfully yours, ‘SAMUEL F. BILLINGTON & SON.’
“亲爱的先生们，我们是您忠实的‘塞缪尔·F·比林顿父子’。”

LETTER, MESSRS. CARTER, PATERSON & CO., LONDON, TO MESSRS. BILLINGTON & SON, WHITBY.
信，先生们。卡特·帕特森公司，伦敦，致先生。比灵顿父子，惠比。

21 August.
8 月 21 日。

‘Dear Sirs,—‘We beg to acknowledge 10 pounds received and to return cheque of 1 pound, 17s, 9d, amount of overplus, as shown in receipted account herewith. Goods are delivered in exact accordance with instructions, and keys left in parcel in main hall, as directed.
“亲爱的先生们，——‘我们谨确认已收到 10 英镑，并退还 1 英镑、17 先令、9 分先令的支票，超额金额如收据账户所示。货物完全按照说明交付，钥匙按照指示留在包裹中。

‘We are, dear Sirs, ‘Yours respectfully, ‘Pro CARTER, PATERSON & CO.’
“亲爱的先生们，‘尊敬的卡特、帕特森及其同事’。”

MINA MURRAY’S JOURNAL.
米娜·默里的日记。

18 August.—I am happy today, and write sitting on the seat in the churchyard. Lucy is ever so much better. Last night she slept well all night, and did not disturb me once.
8 月 18 日——今天我很高兴，坐在教堂墓地的座位上写作。露西现在好多了。昨晚她睡得很好，没有打扰过我一次。

The roses seem coming back already to her cheeks, though she is still sadly pale and wan-looking. If she were in any way anemic I could understand it, but she is not. She is in gay spirits and full of life and cheerfulness. All the morbid reticence seems to have passed from her, and she has just reminded me, as if I needed any reminding, of that night, and that it was here, on this very seat, I found her asleep.
玫瑰花似乎已经重新回到她的脸颊上，尽管她的脸色仍然苍白、憔悴。如果她患有某种贫血症，我可以理解，但她不是。她精神愉快，充满生机和快乐。所有病态的沉默似乎都从她身上消失了，她只是提醒我，好像我需要任何提醒一样，那天晚上，就在这里，就在这个座位上，我发现她睡着了。

As she told me she tapped playfully with the heel of her boot on the stone slab and said,
当她告诉我时，她用靴子后跟顽皮地敲击着石板，说道：

‘My poor little feet didn’t make much noise then! I daresay poor old Mr. Swales would have told me that it was because I didn’t want to wake up Geordie.’
“那时我可怜的小脚并没有发出太大的声音！我敢说可怜的老斯韦尔斯先生会告诉我这是因为我不想吵醒乔迪。

As she was in such a communicative humour, I asked her if she had dreamed at all that night.
由于她是如此健谈的幽默感，我问她那天晚上是否做了梦。

Before she answered, that sweet, puckered look came into her forehead, which Arthur, I call him Arthur from her habit, says he loves, and indeed, I don’t wonder that he does. Then she went on in a half-dreaming kind of way, as if trying to recall it to herself.
在她回答之前，她的额头上出现了那种甜蜜、皱起的表情，亚瑟，我根据她的习惯叫他亚瑟，说他喜欢这种表情，事实上，我并不奇怪他喜欢这种表情。然后她以一种半做梦的方式继续说下去，好像在努力向自己回忆起这件事。

‘I didn’t quite dream, but it all seemed to be real. I only wanted to be here in this spot. I don’t know why, for I was afraid of something, I don’t know what. I remember, though I suppose I was asleep, passing through the streets and over the bridge. A fish leaped as I went by, and I leaned over to look at it, and I heard a lot of dogs howling. The whole town seemed as if it must be full of dogs all howling at once, as I went up the steps. Then I had a vague memory of something long and dark with red eyes, just as we saw in the sunset, and something very sweet and very bitter all around me at once. And then I seemed sinking into deep green water, and there was a singing in my ears, as I have heard there is to drowning men, and then everything seemed passing away from me. My soul seemed to go out from my body and float about the air. I seem to remember that once the West Lighthouse was right under me, and then there was a sort of agonizing feeling, as if I were in an earthquake, and I came back and found you shaking my body. I saw you do it before I felt you.’
“我并不是在做梦，但这一切似乎都是真实的。我只想呆在这个地方。我不知道为什么，因为我害怕某些东西，我不知道是什么。我记得，虽然我想我已经睡着了，穿过街道，过桥。我经过时一条鱼跳了起来，我俯身一看，听见很多狗在嚎叫。当我走上台阶时，整个小镇似乎都充满了同时嚎叫的狗。然后我模糊地记得有一个又长又黑、眼睛红红的东西，就像我们在日落时看到的那样，还有一种非常甜蜜又非常苦涩的东西立刻围绕着我。然后我似乎陷入了深绿色的水中，我的耳边响起了歌声，就像我听到的溺水者的歌声一样，然后一切似乎都从我身边消失了。我的灵魂仿佛脱离了身体，飘浮在空中。我似乎记得有一次西灯塔就在我的脚下，然后有一种痛苦的感觉，就像是在地震中，我回来发现你在摇晃我的身体。在我感觉到你之前我就看到你这么做了。

Then she began to laugh. It seemed a little uncanny to me, and I listened to her breathlessly. I did not quite like it, and thought it better not to keep her mind on the subject, so we drifted on to another subject, and Lucy was like her old self again. When we got home the fresh breeze had braced her up, and her pale cheeks were really more rosy. Her mother rejoiced when she saw her, and we all spent a very happy evening together.
然后她开始笑。我觉得这有点不可思议，我气喘吁吁地听她说话。我不太喜欢这样，觉得最好不要让她把注意力集中在这个话题上，所以我们转向了另一个话题，露西又像以前一样了。回到家，清新的微风让她精神抖擞，苍白的脸颊确实更红润了。她妈妈看到她很高兴，我们一起度过了一个非常幸福的夜晚。

19 August.—Joy, joy, joy! Although not all joy. At last, news of Jonathan. The dear fellow has been ill, that is why he did not write. I am not afraid to think it or to say it, now that I know. Mr. Hawkins sent me on the letter, and wrote himself, oh so kindly. I am to leave in the morning and go over to Jonathan, and to help to nurse him if necessary, and to bring him home. Mr. Hawkins says it would not be a bad thing if we were to be married out there. I have cried over the good Sister’s letter till I can feel it wet against my bosom, where it lies. It is of Jonathan, and must be near my heart, for he is in my heart. My journey is all mapped out, and my luggage ready. I am only taking one change of dress. Lucy will bring my trunk to London and keep it till I send for it, for it may be that … I must write no more. I must keep it to say to Jonathan, my husband. The letter that he has seen and touched must comfort me till we meet.
8 月 19 日——欢乐，欢乐，欢乐！虽然不全是喜悦。终于，乔纳森的消息传来了。这位亲爱的朋友病了，所以他没有写信。既然我知道了，我就不再害怕思考或说出它。霍金斯先生给我寄了这封信，他自己也写了一封信，哦，真是太友善了。我将在早上出发去乔纳森那里，必要时帮助护理他，并带他回家。霍金斯先生说如果我们在外面结婚也不是坏事。我为好姐妹的信哭泣，直到我能感觉到它在我怀里湿漉漉的。这是乔纳森的作品，一定是我的心头好，因为他就在我的心里。我的行程已经安排好了，行李也准备好了。我只带一件换洗的衣服。露西会把我的箱子带到伦敦并保留它，直到我派人去取，因为可能……我不能再写了。我必须保留它，以便对我的丈夫乔纳森说。他所看到和触摸过的信一定会安慰我，直到我们见面。

LETTER, SISTER AGATHA, HOSPITAL OF ST. JOSEPH AND STE. MARY BUDA-PESTH, TO MISS WILLHELMINA MURRAY
信，圣阿加莎修女医院约瑟夫和圣。玛丽·布达·佩斯，致威廉明娜·默里小姐

12 August,
8 月 12 日，

‘Dear Madam.
'尊敬的女士。

‘I write by desire of Mr. Jonathan Harker, who is himself not strong enough to write, though progressing well, thanks to God and St. Joseph and Ste. Mary. He has been under our care for nearly six weeks, suffering from a violent brain fever. He wishes me to convey his love, and to say that by this post I write for him to Mr. Peter Hawkins, Exeter, to say, with his dutiful respects, that he is sorry for his delay, and that all of his work is completed. He will require some few weeks’ rest in our sanatorium in the hills, but will then return. He wishes me to say that he has not sufficient money with him, and that he would like to pay for his staying here, so that others who need shall not be wanting for help.
“我是根据乔纳森·哈克先生的愿望来写作的，他本人还没有足够的力量来写作，尽管他进展顺利，感谢上帝、圣约瑟夫和圣。玛丽。他已经在我们的照顾下近六个星期了，患有剧烈的脑热。他希望我转达他的爱意，并表示通过这篇文章，我替他写信给埃克塞特的彼得·霍金斯先生，谨向他致以尽职的敬意，对他的延误表示歉意，并且他的所有工作都将在完全的。他需要在我们山上的疗养院休息几周，然后就会回来。他希望我说他身上没有足够的钱，他愿意支付住在这里的费用，这样其他有需要的人就不会需要帮助了。

Believe me,
相信我，

Yours, with sympathy and all blessings. Sister Agatha.’
谨致您的同情和祝福。阿加莎修女。”

‘P.S.—My patient being asleep, I open this to let you know something more. He has told me all about you, and that you are shortly to be his wife. All blessings to you both! He has had some fearful shock, so says our doctor, and in his delirium his ravings have been dreadful, of wolves and poison and blood, of ghosts and demons, and I fear to say of what. Be careful of him always that there may be nothing to excite him of this kind for a long time to come. The traces of such an illness as his do not lightly die away. We should have written long ago, but we knew nothing of his friends, and there was nothing on him, nothing that anyone could understand. He came in the train from Klausenburg, and the guard was told by the station master there that he rushed into the station shouting for a ticket for home. Seeing from his violent demeanour that he was English, they gave him a ticket for the furthest station on the way thither that the train reached.
‘附注：我的病人正在睡觉，我打开这个是为了让你了解更多信息。他已经告诉了我关于你的一切，而且你很快就会成为他的妻子。祝你们俩一切顺利！我们的医生说，他受到了一些可怕的震惊，在他的谵妄中，他的胡言乱语非常可怕，狼、毒药和血，鬼魂和恶魔，我不敢说是什么。时刻小心他，在未来的很长一段时间内，可能没有什么能让他兴奋的事情了。像他这样的疾病的痕迹不会轻易消失。我们早就应该写信了，但我们对他的朋友一无所知，也没有关于他的任何东西，没有任何人能理解的东西。他从克劳森堡乘火车过来，车站站长告诉警卫，他冲进车站喊着要一张回家的车票。从他的暴力行为看出他是英国人，他们给了他一张火车到达途中最远车站的车票。

‘Be assured that he is well cared for. He has won all hearts by his sweetness and gentleness. He is truly getting on well, and I have no doubt will in a few weeks be all himself. But be careful of him for safety’s sake. There are, I pray God and St. Joseph and Ste. Mary, many, many, happy years for you both.’
“请放心，他得到了很好的照顾。他以他的甜蜜和温柔赢得了所有人的心。他确实相处得很好，我毫不怀疑几周后他就会恢复正常。但为了安全起见，还是要小心他。我祈祷上帝、圣约瑟夫和圣。玛丽，你们俩都度过了很多很多快乐的时光。”

DR. SEWARD’S DIARY
博士。苏厄德的日记

19 August.—Strange and sudden change in Renfield last night. About eight o’clock he began to get excited and sniff about as a dog does when setting. The attendant was struck by his manner, and knowing my interest in him, encouraged him to talk. He is usually respectful to the attendant and at times servile, but tonight, the man tells me, he was quite haughty. Would not condescend to talk with him at all.
8 月 19 日——昨晚，伦菲尔德发生了奇怪而突然的变化。大约八点钟，他开始变得兴奋起来，像狗睡觉时那样嗅来嗅去。服务员被他的态度所打动，知道我对他感兴趣，就鼓励他说话。他通常对服务员很尊重，有时也很卑微，但今晚，该男子告诉我，他相当傲慢。根本不会屈尊与他交谈。

All he would say was, ‘I don’t want to talk to you. You don’t count now. The master is at hand.’
他只会说，‘我不想和你说话。你现在还不算数。主人就在眼前。”

The attendant thinks it is some sudden form of religious mania which has seized him. If so, we must look out for squalls, for a strong man with homicidal and religious mania at once might be dangerous. The combination is a dreadful one.
服务员认为是某种突然的宗教狂热袭击了他。如果是这样，我们就必须提防暴风雨，因为一个同时具有杀人狂和宗教狂热的强者可能会很危险。这种组合是一种可怕的组合。

At nine o’clock I visited him myself. His attitude to me was the same as that to the attendant. In his sublime self-feeling the difference between myself and the attendant seemed to him as nothing. It looks like religious mania, and he will soon think that he himself is God.
九点钟，我亲自拜访了他。他对我的态度和对服务员的态度是一样的。在他崇高的自我感觉中，我和侍从之间的区别对他来说似乎毫无意义。看起来像是宗教狂热，他很快就会认为自己就是上帝。

These infinitesimal distinctions between man and man are too paltry for an Omnipotent Being. How these madmen give themselves away! The real God taketh heed lest a sparrow fall. But the God created from human vanity sees no difference between an eagle and a sparrow. Oh, if men only knew!
人与人之间这些极其微小的区别对于全能的存在来说太微不足道了。这些疯子多么暴露自己啊！真正的神会留意，免得麻雀跌倒。但出于人类虚荣心而创造的上帝却认为鹰和麻雀没有区别。哦，要是男人知道就好了！

For half an hour or more Renfield kept getting excited in greater and greater degree. I did not pretend to be watching him, but I kept strict observation all the same. All at once that shifty look came into his eyes which we always see when a madman has seized an idea, and with it the shifty movement of the head and back which asylum attendants come to know so well. He became quite quiet, and went and sat on the edge of his bed resignedly, and looked into space with lack-luster eyes.
在半个多小时的时间里，伦菲尔德变得越来越兴奋。我没有假装在看他，但仍然保持着严格的观察。突然，他的眼睛里出现了那种狡猾的表情，当一个疯子突然想到一个主意时，我们总是会看到这种表情，随之而来的是头部和背部的狡猾的动作，这是精神病院看护人员所熟悉的。他变得安静下来，无奈地坐在床沿上，目光黯淡地望着虚空。

I thought I would find out if his apathy were real or only assumed, and tried to lead him to talk of his pets, a theme which had never failed to excite his attention.
我想我会弄清楚他的冷漠是真实的还是只是假设的，并试图引导他谈论他的宠物，这个主题总是引起他的注意。

At first he made no reply, but at length said testily, ‘Bother them all! I don’t care a pin about them.’
起初他没有回答，但最后暴躁地说：“打扰他们了！”我一点也不关心他们。

‘What’ I said. ‘You don’t mean to tell me you don’t care about spiders?’ (Spiders at present are his hobby and the notebook is filling up with columns of small figures.)
'我所说。 “你的意思不是说你不关心蜘蛛吗？”（蜘蛛目前是他的爱好，笔记本上写满了小数字。）

To this he answered enigmatically, ‘The Bride maidens rejoice the eyes that wait the coming of the bride. But when the bride draweth nigh, then the maidens shine not to the eyes that are filled.’
对此，他神秘地回答道：“新娘们的眼睛充满了等待新娘到来的喜悦。”但当新娘临近时，少女们的眼睛就不再明亮了。”

He would not explain himself, but remained obstinately seated on his bed all the time I remained with him.
他不肯解释，但在我和他在一起的整个过程中，他一直固执地坐在床上。

I am weary tonight and low in spirits. I cannot but think of Lucy, and how different things might have been. If I don’t sleep at once, chloral, the modern Morpheus! I must be careful not to let it grow into a habit. No, I shall take none tonight! I have thought of Lucy, and I shall not dishonour her by mixing the two. If need be, tonight shall be sleepless.
今晚我很疲倦，情绪低落。我忍不住想起露西，以及事情本来会有多么不同。如果我不立即睡觉，三氯乙醛，现代的睡眠！我必须小心，不要让它成为一种习惯。不，今晚我什么也不吃！我想到了露西，我不会把两者混为一谈来羞辱她。如果需要的话，今晚将不眠。

Later.—Glad I made the resolution, gladder that I kept to it. I had lain tossing about, and had heard the clock strike only twice, when the night watchman came to me, sent up from the ward, to say that Renfield had escaped. I threw on my clothes and ran down at once. My patient is too dangerous a person to be roaming about. Those ideas of his might work out dangerously with strangers.
后来。——很高兴我做出了这个决定，更高兴我坚持了下来。我躺在床上翻来覆去，只听见钟敲了两下，病房派来的守夜人就来找我，说伦菲尔德逃跑了。我赶紧穿上衣服就跑了下去。我的病人太危险了，不能四处游荡。他的这些想法对于陌生人来说可能会产生危险。

The attendant was waiting for me. He said he had seen him not ten minutes before, seemingly asleep in his bed, when he had looked through the observation trap in the door. His attention was called by the sound of the window being wrenched out. He ran back and saw his feet disappear through the window, and had at once sent up for me. He was only in his night gear, and cannot be far off.
服务员正在等我。他说，不到十分钟前，当他透过门上的观察窗往外看时，他看到了他，当时他似乎睡在床上。窗户被打开的声音引起了他的注意。他跑回来，看到自己的脚消失在窗外，就立即派人来找我。他只穿着夜间装备，距离不远。

The attendant thought it would be more useful to watch where he should go than to follow him, as he might lose sight of him whilst getting out of the building by the door. He is a bulky man, and couldn’t get through the window.
服务员认为监视他应该去哪里比跟踪他更有用，因为他可能会在从门口走出大楼时失去他的踪迹。他身材魁梧，无法从窗户爬出去。

I am thin, so, with his aid, I got out, but feet foremost, and as we were only a few feet above ground landed unhurt.
我很瘦，所以在他的帮助下，我逃了出来，但脚在前，因为我们离地面只有几英尺，所以没有受伤。

The attendant told me the patient had gone to the left, and had taken a straight line, so I ran as quickly as I could. As I got through the belt of trees I saw a white figure scale the high wall which separates our grounds from those of the deserted house.
服务员告诉我病人已经往左边走了，走的是直线，所以我尽快跑。当我穿过树林时，我看到一个白色的人影爬上高墙，高墙将我们的场地与废弃房屋的场地分开。

I ran back at once, told the watchman to get three or four men immediately and follow me into the grounds of Carfax, in case our friend might be dangerous. I got a ladder myself, and crossing the wall, dropped down on the other side. I could see Renfield’s figure just disappearing behind the angle of the house, so I ran after him. On the far side of the house I found him pressed close against the old iron-bound oak door of the chapel.
我立刻跑回去，告诉看守人立即派三四个人跟着我到卡法克斯的院子里，以防我们的朋友遇到危险。我自己找了一个梯子，翻过墙，从另一边掉下来。我看到雷菲尔德的身影就消失在房子的角落后面，所以我追了上去。在房子的另一边，我发现他紧紧地靠在教堂的旧铁橡木门上。

He was talking, apparently to some one, but I was afraid to go near enough to hear what he was saying, lest I might frighten him, and he should run off.
他正在说话，显然是在对某人说话，但我不敢走得太近，听不到他在说什么，以免吓到他，他会跑掉。

Chasing an errant swarm of bees is nothing to following a naked lunatic, when the fit of escaping is upon him! After a few minutes, however, I could see that he did not take note of anything around him, and so ventured to draw nearer to him, the more so as my men had now crossed the wall and were closing him in. I heard him say …
当一个赤身裸体的疯子想要逃跑时，追赶一群迷失的蜜蜂根本算不了什么！然而，几分钟后，我发现他没有注意到周围的任何事情，因此冒险靠近他，尤其是当我的人已经越过墙并将他包围时。我听到了他的声音说 …

‘I am here to do your bidding, Master. I am your slave, and you will reward me, for I shall be faithful. I have worshipped you long and afar off. Now that you are near, I await your commands, and you will not pass me by, will you, dear Master, in your distribution of good things?’
“我来这里是为了执行您的命令，主人。我是你的奴隶，你会奖赏我，因为我会忠诚的。我崇拜你已久远。现在你已经在附近了，我等待你的命令，亲爱的师父，你在分配好东西时不会放过我吗？

He is a selfish old beggar anyhow. He thinks of the loaves and fishes even when he believes his is in a real Presence. His manias make a startling combination. When we closed in on him he fought like a tiger. He is immensely strong, for he was more like a wild beast than a man.
无论如何，他都是一个自私的老乞丐。即使他相信自己的面包和鱼是真实存在的，他也会想到面包和鱼。他的狂热组合在一起令人震惊。当我们逼近他时，他像老虎一样战斗。他非常强大，因为他更像是一头野兽，而不是一个人。

I never saw a lunatic in such a paroxysm of rage before, and I hope I shall not again. It is a mercy that we have found out his strength and his danger in good time. With strength and determination like his, he might have done wild work before he was caged.
我以前从未见过一个疯子如此愤怒，我希望我不会再看到了。幸运的是，我们及时发现了他的力量和危险。以他这样的力量和决心，在被关进笼子之前，他可能已经做过一些疯狂的工作了。

He is safe now, at any rate. Jack Sheppard himself couldn’t get free from the strait waistcoat that keeps him restrained, and he’s chained to the wall in the padded room.
无论如何，他现在是安全的。杰克·谢泼德本人无法摆脱束缚他的紧身背心，他被锁在软垫房间的墙上。

His cries are at times awful, but the silences that follow are more deadly still, for he means murder in every turn and movement.
他的哭声有时很可怕，但随之而来的沉默更加致命，因为他的每一个回合和动作都意味着谋杀。

Just now he spoke coherent words for the first time. ‘I shall be patient, Master. It is coming, coming, coming!’
刚才他第一次说出了连贯的话。 “我会耐心等待的，主人。它来了，来了，来了！

So I took the hint, and came too. I was too excited to sleep, but this diary has quieted me, and I feel I shall get some sleep tonight.
于是我就领会了，也来了。我兴奋得睡不着，但这本日记让我平静下来，我觉得今晚我可以睡一觉了。

Chapter 9
第9章

LETTER, MINA HARKER TO LUCY WESTENRA
米娜·哈克致露西·韦斯特拉的信

Buda-Pesth, 24 August.
布达-佩斯，8 月 24 日。

‘My dearest Lucy,
“我最亲爱的露西，

‘I know you will be anxious to hear all that has happened since we parted at the railway station at Whitby.
“我知道你会迫不及待地想知道自从我们在惠特比火车站分手以来所发生的一切。

‘Well, my dear, I got to Hull all right, and caught the boat to Hamburg, and then the train on here. I feel that I can hardly recall anything of the journey, except that I knew I was coming to Jonathan, and that as I should have to do some nursing, I had better get all the sleep I could. I found my dear one, oh, so thin and pale and weak-looking. All the resolution has gone out of his dear eyes, and that quiet dignity which I told you was in his face has vanished. He is only a wreck of himself, and he does not remember anything that has happened to him for a long time past. At least, he wants me to believe so, and I shall never ask.
“好吧，亲爱的，我顺利到达赫尔，然后乘船去汉堡，然后在这里坐火车。我觉得我几乎记不起旅途中的任何事情，除了我知道我要去乔纳森，而且因为我应该做一些护理，所以我最好尽可能多地睡觉。我发现我亲爱的，哦，那么瘦，那么苍白，看上去很虚弱。他亲爱的眼睛里所有的决心都消失了，我告诉过你的他脸上那种平静的尊严也消失了。他只是一个残骸，他不记得很久以前发生在他身上的任何事情。至少，他希望我相信这一点，而我永远不会问。

‘He has had some terrible shock, and I fear it might tax his poor brain if he were to try to recall it. Sister Agatha, who is a good creature and a born nurse, tells me that he wanted her to tell me what they were, but she would only cross herself, and say she would never tell. That the ravings of the sick were the secrets of God, and that if a nurse through her vocation should hear them, she should respect her trust.
“他受到了一些可怕的打击，我担心如果他试图回忆起来，他可怜的大脑可能会受到很大的负担。阿加莎修女是一个善良的人，也是一名天生的护士，她告诉我，他想让她告诉我它们是什么，但她只会画十字，并说她永远不会告诉。病人的胡言乱语是上帝的秘密，如果一名护士因她的职业而听到这些胡言乱语，她应该尊重她的信任。

‘She is a sweet, good soul, and the next day, when she saw I was troubled, she opened up the subject my poor dear raved about, added, ‘I can tell you this much, my dear. That it was not about anything which he has done wrong himself, and you, as his wife to be, have no cause to be concerned. He has not forgotten you or what he owes to you. His fear was of great and terrible things, which no mortal can treat of.’
“她是一个可爱、善良的灵魂，第二天，当她看到我陷入困境时，她打开了我可怜的亲爱的热衷的话题，补充道，‘我可以告诉你这么多，亲爱的。这并不是他自己做错了什么，而你，作为他的妻子，没有理由担心。他没有忘记你，也没有忘记他欠你的。他害怕伟大而可怕的事情，凡人都无法应对。

‘I do believe the dear soul thought I might be jealous lest my poor dear should have fallen in love with any other girl. The idea of my being jealous about Jonathan! And yet, my dear, let me whisper, I felt a thrill of joy through me when I knew that no other woman was a cause for trouble. I am now sitting by his bedside, where I can see his face while he sleeps. He is waking!
“我确实相信亲爱的灵魂认为我可能会嫉妒，以免我可怜的亲爱的爱上任何其他女孩。我嫉妒乔纳森的想法！然而，亲爱的，让我低语一下，当我知道没有其他女人会带来麻烦时，我感到一阵喜悦。我现在坐在他的床边，我可以看到他睡觉时的脸。他醒了！

‘When he woke he asked me for his coat, as he wanted to get something from the pocket. I asked Sister Agatha, and she brought all his things. I saw amongst them was his notebook, and was was going to ask him to let me look at it, for I knew that I might find some clue to his trouble, but I suppose he must have seen my wish in my eyes, for he sent me over to the window, saying he wanted to be quite alone for a moment.
“当他醒来时，他向我要他的外套，因为他想从口袋里拿一些东西。我问阿加莎修女，她把他的东西都带来了。我看到其中有他的笔记本，正想请他让我看一下，因为我知道我可能会找到一些解决他麻烦的线索，但我想他一定从我的眼睛里看到了我的愿望，因为他把我送到窗边，说他想一个人呆一会儿。

‘Then he called me back, and he said to me very solemnly, ‘Wilhelmina’, I knew then that he was in deadly earnest, for he has never called me by that name since he asked me to marry him, ‘You know, dear, my ideas of the trust between husband and wife. There should be no secret, no concealment. I have had a great shock, and when I try to think of what it is I feel my head spin round, and I do not know if it was real of the dreaming of a madman. You know I had brain fever, and that is to be mad. The secret is here, and I do not want to know it. I want to take up my life here, with our marriage.’ For, my dear, we had decided to be married as soon as the formalities are complete. ‘Are you willing, Wilhelmina, to share my ignorance? Here is the book. Take it and keep it, read it if you will, but never let me know unless, indeed, some solemn duty should come upon me to go back to the bitter hours, asleep or awake, sane or mad, recorded here.’ He fell back exhausted, and I put the book under his pillow, and kissed him. I have asked Sister Agatha to beg the Superior to let our wedding be this afternoon, and am waiting her reply …’
“然后他给我回了电话，他非常严肃地对我说，‘威廉明娜’，我当时就知道他是非常认真的，因为自从他向我求婚以来，他从来没有用这个名字叫过我，‘你知道，亲爱的，我对夫妻之间信任的看法。不应该有秘密，不应该有隐瞒。我受到了极大的震惊，当我试图思考那是什么时，我感到头晕目眩，我不知道这是否是一个疯子的梦。你知道我得了脑热症，那就是疯了。秘密就在这里，我不想知道。我想在这里度过我的生活，度过我们的婚姻。”因为，亲爱的，我们决定一旦手续完成就结婚。 ‘威廉敏娜，你愿意分享我的无知吗？这是书。拿着它并保留它，如果你愿意的话可以阅读它，但永远不要让我知道，除非确实有某种庄严的责任降临到我身上，让我回到这里记录的那些痛苦的时光，无论是睡着还是醒着，是理智还是疯狂。”他摔倒了。疲惫地回来了，我把书放在他的枕头下，吻了他。我已经请阿加莎修女恳求院长让我们的婚礼在今天下午举行，正在等待她的答复……”

‘She has come and told me that the Chaplain of the English mission church has been sent for. We are to be married in an hour, or as soon after as Jonathan awakes.’
“她来告诉我英国传教会的牧师已被请来。我们将在一小时内结婚，或者乔纳森醒来后立即结婚。

‘Lucy, the time has come and gone. I feel very solemn, but very, very happy. Jonathan woke a little after the hour, and all was ready, and he sat up in bed, propped up with pillows. He answered his ‘I will’ firmly and strong. I could hardly speak. My heart was so full that even those words seemed to choke me.
‘露西，时间到了，又过去了。我感到很庄严，但又非常非常高兴。过了一个小时，乔纳森醒了一会儿，一切都准备好了，他在床上坐起来，用枕头支撑着。他坚定而有力地回答了“我会”。我几乎说不出话来。我的心是如此的充实，连这些话都让我感到窒息。

‘The dear sisters were so kind. Please, God, I shall never, never forget them, nor the grave and sweet responsibilities I have taken upon me. I must tell you of my wedding present. When the chaplain and the sisters had left me alone with my husband—oh, Lucy, it is the first time I have written the words ‘my husband’—left me alone with my husband, I took the book from under his pillow, and wrapped it up in white paper, and tied it with a little bit of pale blue ribbon which was round my neck, and sealed it over the knot with sealing wax, and for my seal I used my wedding ring. Then I kissed it and showed it to my husband, and told him that I would keep it so, and then it would be an outward and visible sign for us all our lives that we trusted each other, that I would never open it unless it were for his own dear sake or for the sake of some stern duty. Then he took my hand in his, and oh, Lucy, it was the first time he took his wife’s hand, and said that it was the dearest thing in all the wide world, and that he would go through all the past again to win it, if need be. The poor dear meant to have said a part of the past, but he cannot think of time yet, and I shall not wonder if at first he mixes up not only the month, but the year.
‘亲爱的姐妹们真是太好了。上帝啊，我永远不会忘记他们，也永远不会忘记我所承担的严肃而甜蜜的责任。我必须告诉你我的结婚礼物。当牧师和修女们让我单独和我的丈夫在一起时——哦，露西，这是我第一次写下“我的丈夫”这个词——让我单独和我的丈夫在一起，我从他的枕头底下拿起那本书，然后用白纸把它包起来，用一小段浅蓝色丝带系在我的脖子上，然后用封蜡把它封在结上，我用结婚戒指作为我的封印。然后我亲吻了它，把它拿给我的丈夫看，并告诉他我会保留它，然后这将成为我们一生中我们彼此信任的外在和可见的标志，我永远不会打开它，除非它是为了他自己的利益，还是为了某种严格的义务。然后他握住我的手，哦，露西，这是他第一次握住他妻子的手，并说这是全世界最亲爱的事情，他将再次经历所有过去来赢得胜利如果需要的话。可怜的亲爱的本来想说的是过去的一部分，但他还想不起时间，我不怀疑他一开始不仅混淆了月份，而且混淆了年份。

‘Well, my dear, what could I say? I could only tell him that I was the happiest woman in all the wide world, and that I had nothing to give him except myself, my life, and my trust, and that with these went my love and duty for all the days of my life. And, my dear, when he kissed me, and drew me to him with his poor weak hands, it was like a solemn pledge between us.
‘好吧，亲爱的，我能说什么？我只能告诉他，我是全世界最幸福的女人，除了我自己、我的生命和我的信任，我没有什么可以给他的，随之而来的是我一生的爱和责任。生活。而且，亲爱的，当他亲吻我，用他那可怜无力的双手把我拉向他时，这就像我们之间的庄严誓言。

‘Lucy dear, do you know why I tell you all this? It is not only because it is all sweet to me, but because you have been, and are, very dear to me. It was my privilege to be your friend and guide when you came from the schoolroom to prepare for the world of life. I want you to see now, and with the eyes of a very happy wife, whither duty has led me, so that in your own married life you too may be all happy, as I am. My dear, please Almighty God, your life may be all it promises, a long day of sunshine, with no harsh wind, no forgetting duty, no distrust. I must not wish you no pain, for that can never be, but I do hope you will be always as happy as I am now. Goodbye, my dear. I shall post this at once, and perhaps, write you very soon again. I must stop, for Jonathan is waking. I must attend my husband!
“亲爱的露西，你知道我为什么告诉你这一切吗？这不仅因为这一切对我来说都是甜蜜的，而且因为你曾经是、现在仍然是我非常亲爱的。当你从教室出来为生活的世界做准备时，我很荣幸能成为你的朋友和指导。我想让你现在以一个非常幸福的妻子的眼光看到，责任把我引向何方，这样，在你自己的婚姻生活中，你也可以像我一样幸福。亲爱的，求全能的上帝保佑，你的生活可能如它所承诺的那样，阳光明媚的长日，没有刺骨的风，没有忘记责任，没有怀疑。我不希望你没有痛苦，因为那永远不可能，但我确实希望你永远像我现在一样快乐。再见，亲爱的。我将立即发布此信息，也许很快就会再次给您写信。我必须停下来，因为乔纳森醒了。我一定要陪着我老公！

‘Your ever-loving ‘Mina Harker.’
“你永远深爱的‘米娜·哈克’。”

LETTER, LUCY WESTENRA TO MINA HARKER.
露西·韦斯特拉致米娜·哈克的信。

Whitby, 30 August.
惠特比，8 月 30 日。

‘My dearest Mina,
“我最亲爱的米娜，

‘Oceans of love and millions of kisses, and may you soon be in your own home with your husband. I wish you were coming home soon enough to stay with us here. The strong air would soon restore Jonathan. It has quite restored me. I have an appetite like a cormorant, am full of life, and sleep well. You will be glad to know that I have quite given up walking in my sleep. I think I have not stirred out of my bed for a week, that is when I once got into it at night. Arthur says I am getting fat. By the way, I forgot to tell you that Arthur is here. We have such walks and drives, and rides, and rowing, and tennis, and fishing together, and I love him more than ever. He tells me that he loves me more, but I doubt that, for at first he told me that he couldn’t love me more than he did then. But this is nonsense. There he is, calling to me. So no more just at present from your loving,
“爱的海洋和数以百万计的亲吻，祝你很快就能和你的丈夫回到自己的家中。”我希望你能尽快回家和我们一起住在这里。强烈的空气很快就会让乔纳森恢复过来。它让我恢复了很多。我的胃口像鸬鹚一样，充满活力，睡眠也很好。你会很高兴知道我已经完全放弃睡梦中行走了。我想我已经有一个星期没有从床上爬起来了，那是我晚上睡觉的时候。亚瑟说我变胖了。对了，我忘了告诉你亚瑟在这里。我们一起散步、开车、骑马、划船、打网球、钓鱼，我比以往任何时候都更爱他。他告诉我他更爱我，但我对此表示怀疑，因为一开始他告诉我他不能比那时更爱我了。但这是无稽之谈。他就在那里，正在呼唤我。所以不再只是现在从你的爱中，

‘Lucy.
露西。

‘P.S.—Mother sends her love. She seems better, poor dear.
‘P.S.——母亲表达了她的爱。她看起来好多了，可怜的亲爱的。

‘P.P.S.—We are to be married on 28 September.’
“P.P.S.——我们将于 9 月 28 日结婚。”

DR. SEWARDS DIARY
博士。苏厄兹日记

20 August.—The case of Renfield grows even more interesting. He has now so far quieted that there are spells of cessation from his passion. For the first week after his attack he was perpetually violent. Then one night, just as the moon rose, he grew quiet, and kept murmuring to himself. ‘Now I can wait. Now I can wait.’
8 月 20 日——伦菲尔德的案例变得更加有趣。到目前为止，他已经安静下来，他的激情也时常停止。在袭击发生后的第一周，他一直表现出暴力行为。有一天晚上，月亮刚升起，他就安静下来，不停地自言自语。 ‘现在我可以等待了。现在我可以等了。

The attendant came to tell me, so I ran down at once to have a look at him. He was still in the strait waistcoat and in the padded room, but the suffused look had gone from his face, and his eyes had something of their old pleading. I might almost say, cringing, softness. I was satisfied with his present condition, and directed him to be relieved. The attendants hesitated, but finally carried out my wishes without protest.
服务员过来告诉我，我赶紧跑下去看看。他仍然穿着紧身背心，待在有软垫的房间里，但他脸上的表情已经消失了，他的眼睛里带着一些旧时的恳求。我几乎可以说，畏缩，柔软。我对他目前的状况很满意，并嘱咐他放心。侍从们犹豫了一下，但最后还是毫无异议地执行了我的愿望。

It was a strange thing that the patient had humour enough to see their distrust, for, coming close to me, he said in a whisper, all the while looking furtively at them, ‘They think I could hurt you! Fancy me hurting you! The fools!’
奇怪的是，病人的幽默感足以看出他们的不信任，因为他靠近我，一边低声说，一边一直偷偷地看着他们，“他们认为我会伤害你！”想象我伤害你！傻瓜们！

It was soothing, somehow, to the feelings to find myself disassociated even in the mind of this poor madman from the others, but all the same I do not follow his thought. Am I to take it that I have anything in common with him, so that we are, as it were, to stand together. Or has he to gain from me some good so stupendous that my well being is needful to Him? I must find out later on. Tonight he will not speak. Even the offer of a kitten or even a full-grown cat will not tempt him.
即使在这个可怜的疯子的心目中，发现自己与其他人分离，不知何故，这对我的感觉来说是一种安慰，但尽管如此，我不同意他的想法。我是否可以认为我和他有任何共同点，因此我们可以说是站在一起的？或者他是否要从我那里获得一些如此巨大的好处，以至于我的健康对他来说是必要的？我必须稍后才知道。今晚他不会说话。即使是一只小猫，甚至一只成年猫，也不会吸引他。

He will only say, ‘I don’t take any stock in cats. I have more to think of now, and I can wait. I can wait.’
他只会说，‘我不看好猫。我现在还有更多的事情要考虑，我可以等待。我可以等。'

After a while I left him. The attendant tells me that he was quiet until just before dawn, and that then he began to get uneasy, and at length violent, until at last he fell into a paroxysm which exhausted him so that he swooned into a sort of coma.
过了一会儿我就离开了他。服务员告诉我，他一直安静到天亮，然后他开始感到不安，最后变得暴力，直到最后他突然发作，精疲力尽，昏倒进入昏迷状态。

… Three nights has the same thing happened, violent all day then quiet from moonrise to sunrise. I wish I could get some clue to the cause. It would almost seem as if there was some influence which came and went. Happy thought! We shall tonight play sane wits against mad ones. He escaped before without our help. Tonight he shall escape with it. We shall give him a chance, and have the men ready to follow in case they are required.
……三个晚上都发生了同样的事情，一整天都很暴力，然后从月出到日出都很安静。我希望我能找到一些线索来了解原因。似乎有某种影响来来去去。快乐的想法！今晚我们将用理智对抗疯狂的人。他之前在没有我们帮助的情况下逃走了。今晚他将带着它逃走。我们将给他一个机会，并让人员做好跟随的准备，以备不时之需。

23 August.—‘The expected always happens.’ How well Disraeli knew life. Our bird when he found the cage open would not fly, so all our subtle arrangements were for nought. At any rate, we have proved one thing, that the spells of quietness last a reasonable time. We shall in future be able to ease his bonds for a few hours each day. I have given orders to the night attendant merely to shut him in the padded room, when once he is quiet, until the hour before sunrise. The poor soul’s body will enjoy the relief even if his mind cannot appreciate it. Hark! The unexpected again! I am called. The patient has once more escaped.
8 月 23 日——“预期的事情总会发生。”迪斯雷利对生活是多么了解。我们的小鸟发现笼子打开后就不会飞了，所以我们所有的精心安排都白费了。无论如何，我们已经证明了一件事，那就是安静的时间会持续一段合理的时间。将来我们将能够每天减轻他几个小时的束缚。我已经命令夜班服务员把他关在软垫房间里，一旦他安静下来，直到日出前的一个小时。可怜的灵魂的身体会享受到这种解脱，即使他的思想无法体会到。听着！又出意外了！我被召唤了。病人再次逃脱。

Later.—Another night adventure. Renfield artfully waited until the attendant was entering the room to inspect. Then he dashed out past him and flew down the passage. I sent word for the attendants to follow. Again he went into the grounds of the deserted house, and we found him in the same place, pressed against the old chapel door. When he saw me he became furious, and had not the attendants seized him in time, he would have tried to kill me. As we were holding him a strange thing happened. He suddenly redoubled his efforts, and then as suddenly grew calm. I looked round instinctively, but could see nothing. Then I caught the patient’s eye and followed it, but could trace nothing as it looked into the moonlight sky, except a big bat, which was flapping its silent and ghostly way to the west. Bats usually wheel about, but this one seemed to go straight on, as if it knew where it was bound for or had some intention of its own.
后来——另一次夜间冒险。雷菲尔德巧妙地等到服务员走进房间查看。然后他从他身边冲了出去，沿着通道飞了过去。我传话让侍从跟随。他再次走进那座废弃的房子，我们发现他在同一个地方，靠在旧教堂的门上。他一看到我就勃然大怒，要不是侍从及时抓住他，他就要杀我了。当我们抱着他时，奇怪的事情发生了。他突然加倍努力，然后又突然平静下来。我本能地环顾四周，但什么也看不见。然后我看到了病人的眼睛，跟着它，但当它看着月光下的天空时，什么也看不见，除了一只大蝙蝠，它静静地、幽灵般地向西边拍打着。蝙蝠通常会打转，但这只蝙蝠似乎是笔直前行，好像它知道自己要去哪里，或者有自己的意图。

The patient grew calmer every instant, and presently said, ‘You needn’t tie me. I shall go quietly!’ Without trouble, we came back to the house. I feel there is something ominous in his calm, and shall not forget this night.
病人渐渐平静下来，很快说道：“你不用绑我。”我会悄悄地走！”我们毫无困难地回到了房子。我觉得他的平静中有一种不祥的感觉，我不会忘记这个夜晚。

LUCY WESTENRA’S DIARY
露西·韦斯特拉的日记

Hillingham, 24 August.—I must imitate Mina, and keep writing things down. Then we can have long talks when we do meet. I wonder when it will be. I wish she were with me again, for I feel so unhappy. Last night I seemed to be dreaming again just as I was at Whitby. Perhaps it is the change of air, or getting home again. It is all dark and horrid to me, for I can remember nothing. But I am full of vague fear, and I feel so weak and worn out. When Arthur came to lunch he looked quite grieved when he saw me, and I hadn’t the spirit to try to be cheerful. I wonder if I could sleep in mother’s room tonight. I shall make an excuse to try.
希灵厄姆，8 月 24 日。——我必须效仿米娜，不断写下事情。然后当我们见面时我们可以进行长时间的交谈。我想知道什么时候会发生。我希望她能再次和我在一起，因为我感到很不开心。昨晚我似乎又像在惠特比时一样做梦了。也许是换了空气，或者又回家了。对我来说，一切都是黑暗和可怕的，因为我什么都不记得了。但我心里却充满了隐隐约约的恐惧，感觉自己好虚弱、好疲惫。当阿瑟来吃午饭时，他看到我时显得很悲伤，而我却没有心情表现得开心。我想知道今晚我是否可以睡在妈妈的房间里。我会找个借口去尝试一下。

25 August.—Another bad night. Mother did not seem to take to my proposal. She seems not too well herself, and doubtless she fears to worry me. I tried to keep awake, and succeeded for a while, but when the clock struck twelve it waked me from a doze, so I must have been falling asleep. There was a sort of scratching or flapping at the window, but I did not mind it, and as I remember no more, I suppose I must have fallen asleep. More bad dreams. I wish I could remember them. This morning I am horribly weak. My face is ghastly pale, and my throat pains me. It must be something wrong with my lungs, for I don’t seem to be getting air enough. I shall try to cheer up when Arthur comes, or else I know he will be miserable to see me so.
8 月 25 日——又一个糟糕的夜晚。母亲似乎没有接受我的提议。她自己看起来不太好，毫无疑问她害怕让我担心。我试图保持清醒，并成功了一段时间，但是当时钟敲响十二点时，它把我从瞌睡中惊醒，所以我一定是睡着了。窗户上有某种刮擦或拍打的声音，但我并不介意，而且我不记得了，我想我一定是睡着了。更多的噩梦。我希望我能记住他们。今天早上我非常虚弱。我的脸色惨白，喉咙也很痛。我的肺肯定有问题，因为我似乎呼吸不到足够的空气。当亚瑟来的时候，我会尽力让自己高兴起来，否则我知道他看到我这样会很难过。

LETTER, ARTHUR TO DR. SEWARD
亚瑟给博士的信苏厄德

‘Albemarle Hotel, 31 August ‘My dear Jack,
‘阿尔伯马尔酒店，8 月 31 日’我亲爱的杰克，

‘I want you to do me a favour. Lucy is ill, that is she has no special disease, but she looks awful, and is getting worse every day. I have asked her if there is any cause, I not dare to ask her mother, for to disturb the poor lady’s mind about her daughter in her present state of health would be fatal. Mrs. Westenra has confided to me that her doom is spoken, disease of the heart, though poor Lucy does not know it yet. I am sure that there is something preying on my dear girl’s mind. I am almost distracted when I think of her. To look at her gives me a pang. I told her I should ask you to see her, and though she demurred at first, I know why, old fellow, she finally consented. It will be a painful task for you, I know, old friend, but it is for her sake, and I must not hesitate to ask, or you to act. You are to come to lunch at Hillingham tomorrow, two o’clock, so as not to arouse any suspicion in Mrs. Westenra, and after lunch Lucy will take an opportunity of being alone with you. I am filled with anxiety, and want to consult with you alone as soon as I can after you have seen her. Do not fail!
‘我想让你帮我一个忙。露西病了，就是说她没有什么特殊的病，但是她看起来很糟糕，而且一天比一天严重。我问过她是否有什么原因，但我不敢问她的母亲，因为在她目前的健康状况下，扰乱这位可怜的女士对她女儿的想法将是致命的。韦斯特拉夫人向我吐露，她的厄运已然来临，她患上了心脏病，尽管可怜的露西还不知道这一点。我确信我亲爱的女儿心里有什么东西在困扰着我。当我想起她时，我几乎心烦意乱。看着她我就感到一阵痛苦。我告诉她我应该请你见她，虽然她一开始很反对，但我知道为什么，老伙计，她最终还是同意了。我知道，老朋友，这对你来说将是一项痛苦的任务，但这是为了她，我必须毫不犹豫地要求你采取行动。明天两点你要来希灵厄姆吃午饭，以免引起韦斯特拉夫人的怀疑，午饭后露西会趁机单独和你在一起。我心里充满了焦虑，想在你见到她后尽快单独与你商量。不要失败！

‘Arthur.’
“亚瑟。”

TELEGRAM, ARTHUR HOLMWOOD TO SEWARD
电报，亚瑟·霍姆伍德致苏厄德

1 September
9 月 1 日

‘Am summoned to see my father, who is worse. Am writing. Write me fully by tonight’s post to Ring. Wire me if necessary.’
‘我被叫去见我的父亲，他的情况更糟。正在写。请在今晚发给 Ring 的帖子中完整地给我写信。如果需要的话给我打电报。

LETTER FROM DR. SEWARD TO ARTHUR HOLMWOOD
博士的来信苏厄德致阿瑟·霍姆伍德

2 September
9 月 2 日

‘My dear old fellow,
‘我亲爱的老伙计，

‘With regard to Miss Westenra’s health I hasten to let you know at once that in my opinion there is not any functional disturbance or any malady that I know of. At the same time, I am not by any means satisfied with her appearance. She is woefully different from what she was when I saw her last. Of course you must bear in mind that I did not have full opportunity of examination such as I should wish. Our very friendship makes a little difficulty which not even medical science or custom can bridge over. I had better tell you exactly what happened, leaving you to draw, in a measure, your own conclusions. I shall then say what I have done and propose doing.
“关于韦斯特拉小姐的健康状况，我必须立即通知您，据我所知，我认为没有任何功能障碍或任何疾病。同时，我对她的外表也不满意。她与我上次见到她时的样子截然不同。当然，你必须记住，我并没有如我所希望的那样获得充分的考试机会。我们的友谊造成了一点困难，即使是医学或习俗也无法克服。我最好准确地告诉你发生了什么，让你在某种程度上得出自己的结论。然后我将讲述我所做的事情并建议做的事情。

‘I found Miss Westenra in seemingly gay spirits. Her mother was present, and in a few seconds I made up my mind that she was trying all she knew to mislead her mother and prevent her from being anxious. I have no doubt she guesses, if she does not know, what need of caution there is.
“我发现韦斯特拉小姐看起来很快乐。她的母亲在场，几秒钟后我就认定她是在想尽一切办法误导她的母亲，让她不焦虑。我毫不怀疑，如果她不知道的话，她会猜到有什么需要谨慎的。

‘We lunched alone, and as we all exerted ourselves to be cheerful, we got, as some kind of reward for our labours, some real cheerfulness amongst us. Then Mrs. Westenra went to lie down, and Lucy was left with me. We went into her boudoir, and till we got there her gaiety remained, for the servants were coming and going.
“我们独自吃午饭，当我们都努力保持快乐的时候，我们得到了一些真正的快乐，作为对我们劳动的某种奖励。然后韦斯特拉夫人去躺下，只剩下露西和我在一起。我们走进她的闺房，直到我们到达那里，她仍然保持着快乐，因为仆人们来来往往。

‘As soon as the door was closed, however, the mask fell from her face, and she sank down into a chair with a great sigh, and hid her eyes with her hand. When I saw that her high spirits had failed, I at once took advantage of her reaction to make a diagnosis.
然而，门一关上，面具就从她脸上掉了下来，她长长地叹了口气，跌坐在椅子上，用手遮住眼睛。当我看到她兴高采烈的样子消失时，我立即利用她的反应做出了诊断。

‘She said to me very sweetly, ‘I cannot tell you how I loathe talking about myself.’ I reminded her that a doctor’s confidence was sacred, but that you were grievously anxious about her. She caught on to my meaning at once, and settled that matter in a word. ‘Tell Arthur everything you choose. I do not care for myself, but for him!’ So I am quite free.
“她非常甜蜜地对我说，‘我无法告诉你我是多么讨厌谈论自己。’我提醒她，医生的信心是神圣的，但你却为她感到非常焦虑。她立刻明白了我的意思，一句话就解决了这件事。 ‘告诉亚瑟你选择的一切。我不关心自己，而是关心他！’所以我很自由。

‘I could easily see that she was somewhat bloodless, but I could not see the usual anemic signs, and by the chance, I was able to test the actual quality of her blood, for in opening a window which was stiff a cord gave way, and she cut her hand slightly with broken glass. It was a slight matter in itself, but it gave me an evident chance, and I secured a few drops of the blood and have analysed them.
“我很容易看出她有点没有血，但我看不到通常的贫血症状，偶然的机会，我能够测试她血液的实际质量，因为在打开一扇僵硬的窗户时，一根绳子断了，她的手被碎玻璃轻微割伤。这本身是一件小事，但它给了我一个明显的机会，我取了几滴血并进行了分析。

‘The qualitative analysis give a quite normal condition, and shows, I should infer, in itself a vigorous state of health. In other physical matters I was quite satisfied that there is no need for anxiety, but as there must be a cause somewhere, I have come to the conclusion that it must be something mental.
“定性分析给出了一个相当正常的状况，并且我应该推断，它本身表明了一种充满活力的健康状态。在其他身体问题上，我很满意，没有必要焦虑，但由于一定有某个原因，所以我得出的结论是，这一定是精神上的问题。

‘She complains of difficulty breathing satisfactorily at times, and of heavy, lethargic sleep, with dreams that frighten her, but regarding which she can remember nothing. She says that as a child, she used to walk in her sleep, and that when in Whitby the habit came back, and that once she walked out in the night and went to East Cliff, where Miss Murray found her. But she assures me that of late the habit has not returned.
“她抱怨有时呼吸困难，睡得很沉，昏昏欲睡，做的梦让她害怕，但她对此一无所知。她说，小时候，她常常在睡梦中走路，到了惠特比，这个习惯又回来了，有一次她在夜里走出去，去了东崖，默里小姐在那里找到了她。但她向我保证，最近这个习惯还没有恢复。

‘I am in doubt, and so have done the best thing I know of. I have written to my old friend and master, Professor Van Helsing, of Amsterdam, who knows as much about obscure diseases as any one in the world. I have asked him to come over, and as you told me that all things were to be at your charge, I have mentioned to him who you are and your relations to Miss Westenra. This, my dear fellow, is in obedience to your wishes, for I am only too proud and happy to do anything I can for her.
“我很怀疑，所以我做了我所知道的最好的事情。我已经写信给我的老朋友兼导师、阿姆斯特丹的范海辛教授，他对隐秘疾病的了解和世界上任何人一样多。我请他过来，正如你告诉我的，所有的事情都由你负责，我已经向他提到了你的身份以及你与韦斯特拉小姐的关系。我亲爱的朋友，这是遵照你的意愿，因为我非常自豪和高兴能为她做任何事情。

‘Van Helsing would, I know, do anything for me for a personal reason, so no matter on what ground he comes, we must accept his wishes. He is a seemingly arbitrary man, this is because he knows what he is talking about better than any one else. He is a philosopher and a metaphysician, and one of the most advanced scientists of his day, and he has, I believe, an absolutely open mind. This, with an iron nerve, a temper of the ice-brook, and indomitable resolution, self-command, and toleration exalted from virtues to blessings, and the kindliest and truest heart that beats, these form his equipment for the noble work that he is doing for mankind, work both in theory and practice, for his views are as wide as his all-embracing sympathy. I tell you these facts that you may know why I have such confidence in him. I have asked him to come at once. I shall see Miss Westenra tomorrow again. She is to meet me at the Stores, so that I may not alarm her mother by too early a repetition of my call.
“我知道，范海辛会出于个人原因为我做任何事，所以无论他出于什么理由，我们都必须接受他的愿望。他是一个看似武断的人，这是因为他比任何人都更清楚自己在说什么。他是一位哲学家和形而上学家，也是他那个时代最先进的科学家之一，我相信他有绝对开放的思想。钢铁般的神经，冰河般的脾气，不屈不挠的决心，自我控制，从美德到祝福的宽容，以及跳动的最仁慈和最真诚的心，这些构成了他从事崇高工作的装备。他为人类所做的事情，无论是在理论上还是在实践上，他的观点都是广泛的，他的同情心也是包罗万象的。我告诉你这些事实，让你知道我为什么对他这么有信心。我已经请他立刻来了。明天我会再次见到韦斯特拉小姐。她要到商店来接我，这样我就不会过早地重复打电话来惊动她的母亲。

‘Yours always.’
“永远是你的。”

John Seward
约翰·苏厄德

LETTER, ABRAHAM VAN HELSING, MD, DPh, D. Lit, ETC, ETC, TO DR. SEWARD
致亚伯拉罕·范·赫尔辛 (ABRAHAM VAN HELSING) 博士、医学博士、博士、文学博士、等等、等等的信苏厄德

2 September.
9 月 2 日。

‘My good Friend,
'我的好朋友，

‘When I received your letter I am already coming to you. By good fortune I can leave just at once, without wrong to any of those who have trusted me. Were fortune other, then it were bad for those who have trusted, for I come to my friend when he call me to aid those he holds dear. Tell your friend that when that time you suck from my wound so swiftly the poison of the gangrene from that knife that our other friend, too nervous, let slip, you did more for him when he wants my aids and you call for them than all his great fortune could do. But it is pleasure added to do for him, your friend, it is to you that I come. Have near at hand, and please it so arrange that we may see the young lady not too late on tomorrow, for it is likely that I may have to return here that night. But if need be I shall come again in three days, and stay longer if it must. Till then goodbye, my friend John.
‘当我收到你的信时，我已经来找你了。幸运的是，我可以立即离开，而不会伤害任何信任我的人。如果运气不好，那么对那些信任的人来说就很糟糕了，因为当我的朋友呼唤我去帮助他所珍视的人时，我就会去找他。告诉你的朋友，当你从我的伤口中如此迅速地从那把刀中吸出坏疽的毒液时，我们的另一个朋友因为太紧张而失言了，当他需要我的帮助时，你为他做了更多的事情，而你比所有人都要求他们他的巨大财富可以做到。但我很高兴为他，你的朋友，为你而来。就在手头，请安排一下，以便我们明天可以见到这位年轻女士，因为那天晚上我可能必须回到这里。但如果需要的话，我会在三天内再来，如果必要的话，我会停留更长时间。到那时再见，我的朋友约翰。

‘Van Helsing.’
“范海辛。”

LETTER, DR. SEWARD TO HON. ARTHUR HOLMWOOD
信，博士。苏厄德致阁下。阿瑟·霍姆伍德

3 September
9 月 3 日

‘My dear Art,
“我亲爱的艺术，

‘Van Helsing has come and gone. He came on with me to Hillingham, and found that, by Lucy’s discretion, her mother was lunching out, so that we were alone with her.
“范海辛来了又走了。他和我一起去了希灵厄姆，发现根据露西的判断，她的母亲正在外面吃午饭，所以我们单独和她在一起。

‘Van Helsing made a very careful examination of the patient. He is to report to me, and I shall advise you, for of course I was not present all the time. He is, I fear, much concerned, but says he must think. When I told him of our friendship and how you trust to me in the matter, he said, ‘You must tell him all you think. Tell him him what I think, if you can guess it, if you will. Nay, I am not jesting. This is no jest, but life and death, perhaps more.’ I asked what he meant by that, for he was very serious. This was when we had come back to town, and he was having a cup of tea before starting on his return to Amsterdam. He would not give me any further clue. You must not be angry with me, Art, because his very reticence means that all his brains are working for her good. He will speak plainly enough when the time comes, be sure. So I told him I would simply write an account of our visit, just as if I were doing a descriptive special article for THE DAILY TELEGRAPH. He seemed not to notice, but remarked that the smuts of London were not quite so bad as they used to be when he was a student here. I am to get his report tomorrow if he can possibly make it. In any case I am to have a letter.
“范海辛对病人进行了非常仔细的检查。他要向我汇报，我将为你提供建议，因为我当然不是一直在场。我担心他非常担心，但他说他必须思考。当我告诉他我们的友谊以及你在这件事上对我的信任时，他说，‘你必须告诉他你的一切想法。告诉他我的想法，如果你能猜到的话，如果你愿意的话。不，我不是在开玩笑。这不是玩笑，而是生与死，也许更多。”我问他这是什么意思，因为他很认真。那是我们回到城里的时候，他正在喝一杯茶，然后开始返回阿姆斯特丹。他不会给我任何进一步的线索。阿特，你千万别生我的气，因为他的沉默寡言就意味着他的所有大脑都在为她好。当然，到时候他会说得足够清楚。所以我告诉他我只会写一篇关于我们访问的报道，就像我为《每日电讯报》写一篇描述性的特别文章一样。他似乎没有注意到，但他说伦敦的污秽并不像他在这里上学时那么糟糕。如果他能做到的话，我明天就会得到他的报告。无论如何，我一定要收到一封信。

‘Well, as to the visit, Lucy was more cheerful than on the day I first saw her, and certainly looked better. She had lost something of the ghastly look that so upset you, and her breathing was normal. She was very sweet to the Professor (as she always is), and tried to make him feel at ease, though I could see the poor girl was making a hard struggle for it.
“嗯，说到这次拜访，露西比我第一次见到她那天更加高兴，而且看起来也更好了。她已经没有了那种让你心烦意乱的可怕表情，而且她的呼吸也正常了。她对教授非常友善（一如既往），并试图让他感到轻松，尽管我可以看到这个可怜的女孩正在为此付出艰苦的努力。

‘I believe Van Helsing saw it, too, for I saw the quick look under his bushy brows that I knew of old. Then he began to chat of all things except ourselves and diseases and with such an infinite geniality that I could see poor Lucy’s pretense of animation merge into reality. Then, without any seeming change, he brought the conversation gently round to his visit, and suavely said,
“我相信范海辛也看到了这一点，因为我看到了他浓密的眉毛下快速的表情，这是我所熟悉的。然后他开始谈论除了我们自己和疾病之外的所有事情，并且带着无限的和善，我可以看到可怜的露西假装的动画融入了现实。然后，表面上没有任何变化，他温和地把话题转向他的来访，温和地说：

‘‘My dear young miss, I have the so great pleasure because you are so much beloved. That is much, my dear, even were there that which I do not see. They told me you were down in the spirit, and that you were of a ghastly pale. To them I say ‘Pouf!‘‘ And he snapped his fingers at me and went on. ‘But you and I shall show them how wrong they are. How can he’, and he pointed at me with the same look and gesture as that with which he pointed me out in his class, on, or rather after, a particular occasion which he never fails to remind me of, ‘know anything of a young ladies? He has his madmen to play with, and to bring them back to happiness, and to those that love them. It is much to do, and, oh, but there are rewards in that we can bestow such happiness. But the young ladies! He has no wife nor daughter, and the young do not tell themselves to the young, but to the old, like me, who have known so many sorrows and the causes of them. So, my dear, we will send him away to smoke the cigarette in the garden, whiles you and I have little talk all to ourselves.’ I took the hint, and strolled about, and presently the professor came to the window and called me in. He looked grave, but said, ‘I have made careful examination, but there is no functional cause. With you I agree that there has been much blood lost, it has been but is not. But the conditions of her are in no way anemic. I have asked her to send me her maid, that I may ask just one or two questions, that so I may not chance to miss nothing. I know well what she will say. And yet there is cause. There is always cause for everything. I must go back home and think. You must send me the telegram every day, and if there be cause I shall come again. The disease, for not to be well is a disease, interest me, and the sweet, young dear, she interest me too. She charm me, and for her, if not for you or disease, I come.’
“我亲爱的小姐，我非常高兴，因为你是如此受人爱戴。亲爱的，即使那里有我看不到的东西，也已经很多了。他们告诉我你情绪低落，脸色惨白。我对他们说“噗！”然后他对我打了个响指，然后继续说道。 “但是你和我会告诉他们他们是多么错误。 “他怎么能”，他以与他在课堂上指着我时相同的眼神和手势，在他总是提醒我的一个特定场合，或者更确切地说，之后，“知道任何事情”一位年轻女士？他让他的疯子们一起玩耍，让他们重获幸福，也让那些爱他们的人重获幸福。有很多事情要做，而且，哦，但是我们可以给予这样的幸福，这是有回报的。但是年轻女士们！他没有妻子，也没有女儿，年轻人不会向年轻人诉说自己的故事，而是向像我这样的老人诉说，他们知道如此多的悲伤及其原因。所以，亲爱的，我们就送他去花园里抽烟，而你和我则很少说话。”我明白了暗示，四处闲逛，不久教授来到窗前叫我他表情严肃，但说道：“我已经仔细检查过，但没有任何功能性原因。”我同意你的看法，失血过多，确实如此，但现在还没有。但她的状况绝不是贫血。我已经请她派她的女仆来，这样我就可以问一两个问题，这样我就不会错过任何事情。我很清楚她会说什么。然而这是有原因的。凡事总有其原因。我必须回家好好想一想。你必须每天给我发电报，如果有理由我会再来。 这种疾病，因为不健康就是一种疾病，让我感兴趣，而可爱、年轻的亲爱的，她也让我感兴趣。她让我着迷，为了她，如果不是为了你或疾病，我也会来。’

‘As I tell you, he would not say a word more, even when we were alone. And so now, Art, you know all I know. I shall keep stern watch. I trust your poor father is rallying. It must be a terrible thing to you, my dear old fellow, to be placed in such a position between two people who are both so dear to you. I know your idea of duty to your father, and you are right to stick to it. But if need be, I shall send you word to come at once to Lucy, so do not be over-anxious unless you hear from me.’
“正如我告诉你的那样，即使我们单独在一起，他也不会再多说一句话。所以现在，阿特，你知道了我所知道的一切。我将严密监视。我相信你可怜的父亲正在重整旗鼓。我亲爱的老伙计，被安排在两个对你来说都如此亲爱的人之间，这对你来说一定是一件可怕的事情。我知道你对你父亲的责任的想法，你坚持下去是正确的。但如果需要的话，我会传话让你立即去见露西，所以不要过度焦虑，除非你收到我的消息。

DR. SEWARD’S DIARY
博士。苏厄德的日记

4 September.—Zoophagous patient still keeps up our interest in him. He had only one outburst and that was yesterday at an unusual time. Just before the stroke of noon he began to grow restless. The attendant knew the symptoms, and at once summoned aid. Fortunately the men came at a run, and were just in time, for at the stroke of noon he became so violent that it took all their strength to hold him. In about five minutes, however, he began to get more quiet, and finally sank into a sort of melancholy, in which state he has remained up to now. The attendant tells me that his screams whilst in the paroxysm were really appalling. I found my hands full when I got in, attending to some of the other patients who were frightened by him. Indeed, I can quite understand the effect, for the sounds disturbed even me, though I was some distance away. It is now after the dinner hour of the asylum, and as yet my patient sits in a corner brooding, with a dull, sullen, woe-begone look in his face, which seems rather to indicate than to show something directly. I cannot quite understand it.
9 月 4 日——食人动物患者仍然让我们对他感兴趣。他只爆发过一次，那是在昨天一个不寻常的时间。临近中午，他开始变得焦躁不安。服务员知道了症状，立即呼叫救援。幸运的是，这些人跑来得及时，因为中午时分，他变得非常暴力，以至于他们用尽了所有的力量才能抓住他。然而，大约五分钟后，他开始变得更加安静，最后陷入了一种忧郁之中，至今仍处于这种状态。服务员告诉我，他发作时的尖叫声真的很可怕。当我进去时，我发现自己忙得不可开交，我要照顾其他一些被他吓到的病人。确实，我很能理解这种效果，因为这些声音甚至让我感到不安，尽管我离得很远。现在已经过了精神病院的晚餐时间，我的病人仍然坐在角落里沉思，脸上带着沉闷、闷闷不乐、悲痛欲绝的表情，这似乎是在暗示而不是直接表现出什么。我不太明白。

Later.—Another change in my patient. At five o’clock I looked in on him, and found him seemingly as happy and contented as he used to be. He was catching flies and eating them, and was keeping note of his capture by making nailmarks on the edge of the door between the ridges of padding. When he saw me, he came over and apologized for his bad conduct, and asked me in a very humble, cringing way to be led back to his own room, and to have his notebook again. I thought it well to humour him, so he is back in his room with the window open. He has the sugar of his tea spread out on the window sill, and is reaping quite a harvest of flies. He is not now eating them, but putting them into a box, as of old, and is already examining the corners of his room to find a spider. I tried to get him to talk about the past few days, for any clue to his thoughts would be of immense help to me, but he would not rise. For a moment or two he looked very sad, and said in a sort of far away voice, as though saying it rather to himself than to me.
后来——我的病人又发生了变化。五点钟的时候，我去看望他，发现他看起来和以前一样快乐、满足。他正在捉苍蝇并吃掉它们，并通过在门边的衬垫脊之间做钉痕来记录他的捕获。当他看到我时，走过来为自己的不当行为道歉，并以一种非常卑微、畏缩的方式要求我带回他自己的房间，并重新拿回他的笔记本。我认为顺应他的意思很好，所以他回到了自己的房间，窗户开着。他把茶里的糖铺在窗台上，收获了很多苍蝇。他现在不再吃它们，而是像以前一样把它们放进盒子里，并且已经在检查房间的角落寻找蜘蛛。我试图让他谈谈过去几天的情况，因为任何了解他想法的线索都会对我有很大帮助，但他不肯站起来。有那么一两分钟，他看起来非常悲伤，用一种遥远的声音说道，仿佛是对他自己说，而不是对我说。

‘All over! All over! He has deserted me. No hope for me now unless I do it myself!’ Then suddenly turning to me in a resolute way, he said, ‘Doctor, won’t you be very good to me and let me have a little more sugar? I think it would be very good for me.’
'遍！遍！他已经抛弃了我。现在我已经没有希望了，除非我自己做！”然后他突然转过头，坚决地对我说：“医生，你不会对我很好，让我多吃一点糖吗？”我认为这对我来说非常有好处。

‘And the flies?’ I said.
“那苍蝇呢？”我说。

‘Yes! The flies like it, too, and I like the flies, therefore I like it.’ And there are people who know so little as to think that madmen do not argue. I procured him a double supply, and left him as happy a man as, I suppose, any in the world. I wish I could fathom his mind.
'是的！苍蝇也喜欢它，我喜欢苍蝇，所以我喜欢它。’而有些人却知之甚少，认为疯子不会争论。我给他提供了双倍的供应，我想，让他像世界上任何一个人一样幸福。我希望我能读懂他的心思。

Midnight.—Another change in him. I had been to see Miss Westenra, whom I found much better, and had just returned, and was standing at our own gate looking at the sunset, when once more I heard him yelling. As his room is on this side of the house, I could hear it better than in the morning. It was a shock to me to turn from the wonderful smoky beauty of a sunset over London, with its lurid lights and inky shadows and all the marvellous tints that come on foul clouds even as on foul water, and to realize all the grim sternness of my own cold stone building, with its wealth of breathing misery, and my own desolate heart to endure it all. I reached him just as the sun was going down, and from his window saw the red disc sink. As it sank he became less and less frenzied, and just as it dipped he slid from the hands that held him, an inert mass, on the floor. It is wonderful, however, what intellectual recuperative power lunatics have, for within a few minutes he stood up quite calmly and looked around him. I signalled to the attendants not to hold him, for I was anxious to see what he would do. He went straight over to the window and brushed out the crumbs of sugar. Then he took his fly box, and emptied it outside, and threw away the box. Then he shut the window, and crossing over, sat down on his bed. All this surprised me, so I asked him, ‘Are you going to keep flies any more?’
午夜——他又发生了变化。我去见韦斯特拉小姐，我发现她好多了，我刚刚回来，站在我们家门口看日落，这时我再次听到他大喊大叫。由于他的房间在房子的这一侧，所以我比早上听得更清楚。当我从伦敦上空那美妙的烟熏美景中转过身来时，我感到很震惊，那里有绚丽的灯光和墨黑的阴影，以及污浊的云彩甚至污浊的水面上的所有奇妙的色彩，并意识到所有的严酷和严峻。我自己冰冷的石头建筑，充满了呼吸的痛苦，还有我自己荒凉的心来忍受这一切。当太阳落山时，我到达了他身边，从他的窗户看到红色圆盘下沉。当它下沉时，他变得越来越不疯狂，就在它下沉时，他从握住他的手上滑了下来，一团惰性的东西落在地板上。不过，疯子的智力恢复能力真是奇妙，几分钟之内，他就相当平静地站起来，环顾四周。我示意服务员不要抓住他，因为我急切地想看看他会做什么。他径直走到窗前，刷掉糖屑。然后他把苍蝇盒子拿出来，倒在外面，然后扔掉了盒子。然后他关上窗户，走过去，坐在床上。这一切让我感到惊讶，所以我问他：“你还打算养苍蝇吗？”

‘No,’ said he. ‘I am sick of all that rubbish!’ He certainly is a wonderfully interesting study. I wish I could get some glimpse of his mind or of the cause of his sudden passion. Stop. There may be a clue after all, if we can find why today his paroxysms came on at high noon and at sunset. Can it be that there is a malign influence of the sun at periods which affects certain natures, as at times the moon does others? We shall see.
“不，”他说。 “我厌倦了那些垃圾！”他确实是一个非常有趣的研究对象。我希望我能瞥见他的想法或他突然热情的原因。停止。如果我们能找到为什么他今天在正午和日落时突然发作的话，也许还是有线索的。难道太阳在某些时期会产生有害的影响，影响某些性质，就像月亮有时会影响其他性质一样？我们将会看到。

TELEGRAM. SEWARD, LONDON, TO VAN HELSING, AMSTERDAM
电报。伦敦苏厄德至阿姆斯特丹范海辛

‘4 September.—Patient still better today.’
“9 月 4 日——今天病人的情况好多了。”

TELEGRAM, SEWARD, LONDON, TO VAN HELSING, AMSTERDAM
TELEGRAM，苏厄德，伦敦，至范海辛，阿姆斯特丹

‘5 September.—Patient greatly improved. Good appetite, sleeps naturally, good spirits, colour coming back.’
‘9 月 5 日。——病人的情况大大好转。胃口好，睡眠自然，精神好，气色恢复。”

TELEGRAM, SEWARD, LONDON, TO VAN HELSING, AMSTERDAM
TELEGRAM，苏厄德，伦敦，至范海辛，阿姆斯特丹

‘6 September.—Terrible change for the worse. Come at once. Do not lose an hour. I hold over telegram to Holmwood till have seen you.’
9 月 6 日——可怕的变化变得更糟。赶紧来吧。不要浪费一个小时。我会先给霍姆伍德发电报，直到见到你为止。”

Chapter 10
第10章

LETTER, DR. SEWARD TO HON. ARTHUR HOLMWOOD
信，博士。苏厄德致阁下。阿瑟·霍姆伍德

6 September
9 月 6 日

‘My dear Art,
“我亲爱的艺术，

‘My news today is not so good. Lucy this morning had gone back a bit. There is, however, one good thing which has arisen from it. Mrs. Westenra was naturally anxious concerning Lucy, and has consulted me professionally about her. I took advantage of the opportunity, and told her that my old master, Van Helsing, the great specialist, was coming to stay with me, and that I would put her in his charge conjointly with myself. So now we can come and go without alarming her unduly, for a shock to her would mean sudden death, and this, in Lucy’s weak condition, might be disastrous to her. We are hedged in with difficulties, all of us, my poor fellow, but, please God, we shall come through them all right. If any need I shall write, so that, if you do not hear from me, take it for granted that I am simply waiting for news, In haste,
“我今天的消息不太好。露西今天早上回来了一点。然而，由此产生了一件好事。韦斯特拉夫人自然很担心露西，并就她的情况向我进行了专业咨询。我趁这个机会告诉她，我的老主人、伟大的专家范海辛要来和我住在一起，我会把她和我一起交给他照顾。所以现在我们可以来来去去，而不会过度惊动她，因为对她来说，震惊就意味着突然死亡，而在露西虚弱的情况下，这对她来说可能是灾难性的。我们所有人都面临着困难，我可怜的朋友，但是，上帝啊，我们一定会顺利度过难关的。如果有任何需要，我会写信，这样，如果你没有收到我的消息，就理所当然地认为我只是在匆忙地等待消息，

‘Yours ever,’
“永远属于你”

John Seward
约翰·苏厄德

DR. SEWARD’S DIARY
博士。苏厄德的日记

7 September.—The first thing Van Helsing said to me when we met at Liverpool Street was, ‘Have you said anything to our young friend, to lover of her?’
9 月 7 日。——当我们在利物浦街见面时，范海辛对我说的第一句话是：“你对我们年轻的朋友、对她的爱人说过什么吗？”

‘No,’ I said. ‘I waited till I had seen you, as I said in my telegram. I wrote him a letter simply telling him that you were coming, as Miss Westenra was not so well, and that I should let him know if need be.’
“不，”我说。 “正如我在电报中所说，我一直等到见到你。我给他写了一封信，只是告诉他你要来，因为韦斯特拉小姐身体不太好，如果需要的话我应该让他知道。

‘Right, my friend,’ he said. ‘Quite right! Better he not know as yet. Perhaps he will never know. I pray so, but if it be needed, then he shall know all. And, my good friend John, let me caution you. You deal with the madmen. All men are mad in some way or the other, and inasmuch as you deal discreetly with your madmen, so deal with God’s madmen too, the rest of the world. You tell not your madmen what you do nor why you do it. You tell them not what you think. So you shall keep knowledge in its place, where it may rest, where it may gather its kind around it and breed. You and I shall keep as yet what we know here, and here.’ He touched me on the heart and on the forehead, and then touched himself the same way. ‘I have for myself thoughts at the present. Later I shall unfold to you.’
“好的，我的朋友，”他说。 '完全正确！最好他还不知道。也许他永远不会知道。我如此祈祷，但如果需要的话，他会知道一切。而且，我的好朋友约翰，让我警告你。你和疯子打交道。所有人都以某种方式发疯，既然你谨慎地对待你的疯子，那么也应该对待上帝的疯子，以及世界其他地方的疯子。你不要告诉你的疯子你做了什么，也没有告诉你为什么这样做。你不告诉他们你的想法。所以你应该把知识保留在它可以休息的地方，它可以在它周围聚集同类并繁殖的地方。你和我将保留我们在这里和这里所知道的一切。”他摸了摸我的心和额头，然后也以同样的方式摸了自己。 “我现在有自己的想法。稍后我会向你展开。

‘Why not now?’ I asked. ‘It may do some good. We may arrive at some decision.’ He looked at me and said, ‘My friend John, when the corn is grown, even before it has ripened, while the milk of its mother earth is in him, and the sunshine has not yet begun to paint him with his gold, the husbandman he pull the ear and rub him between his rough hands, and blow away the green chaff, and say to you, ‘Look! He’s good corn, he will make a good crop when the time comes.’ ‘
“为什么不现在呢？”我问。 ‘这可能会有一些好处。我们可能会做出一些决定。”他看着我说，“我的朋友约翰，当玉米生长时，甚至在它成熟之前，当它的母亲大地的乳汁在他体内时，阳光还没有开始为了给他涂上金子，他拉住农夫的耳朵，用粗糙的双手摩擦他，吹掉绿色的谷壳，然后对你说：‘看！他是好玉米，时机成熟时他会获得好收成。”

I did not see the application and told him so. For reply he reached over and took my ear in his hand and pulled it playfully, as he used long ago to do at lectures, and said, ‘The good husbandman tell you so then because he knows, but not till then. But you do not find the good husbandman dig up his planted corn to see if he grow. That is for the children who play at husbandry, and not for those who take it as of the work of their life. See you now, friend John? I have sown my corn, and Nature has her work to do in making it sprout, if he sprout at all, there’s some promise, and I wait till the ear begins to swell.’ He broke off, for he evidently saw that I understood. Then he went on gravely, ‘You were always a careful student, and your case book was ever more full than the rest. And I trust that good habit have not fail. Remember, my friend, that knowledge is stronger than memory, and we should not trust the weaker. Even if you have not kept the good practice, let me tell you that this case of our dear miss is one that may be, mind, I say may be, of such interest to us and others that all the rest may not make him kick the beam, as your people say. Take then good note of it. Nothing is too small. I counsel you, put down in record even your doubts and surmises. Hereafter it may be of interest to you to see how true you guess. We learn from failure, not from success!’
我没有看到申请并告诉了他。作为回答，他伸手抓住我的耳朵，开玩笑地拉着它，就像他很久以前在讲座上所做的那样，然后说：“好农夫告诉你，因为他知道，但直到那时。”但你不会发现好农夫把他种下的玉米挖出来看看它是否生长。那是为那些从事农活的孩子们准备的，而不是为那些将其视为一生工作的人准备的。再见，朋友约翰？我已经播下了我的玉米，大自然有她的工作要做，让它发芽，如果他真的发芽了，那就有一些希望，我会等到耳朵开始膨胀。”他停了下来，因为他显然看到我明白了。然后他严肃地继续说道：“你一直是一个细心的学生，你的案例册比其他人都更丰富。我相信好习惯不会失败。请记住，我的朋友，知识比记忆更强大，我们不应该相信弱者。即使你没有保持良好的习惯，让我告诉你，我们亲爱的小姐的这个案例可能是一个，请注意，我说可能是我们和其他人如此感兴趣的案例，以至于其他所有的事情都不会让他踢球正如你们的人民所说，光束。然后好好记下它。没有什么是太小了。我劝你，把你的怀疑和猜测都记录下来。此后您可能有兴趣看看您的猜测有多正确。我们从失败中学习，而不是从成功中学习！”

When I described Lucy’s symptoms, the same as before, but infinitely more marked, he looked very grave, but said nothing. He took with him a bag in which were many instruments and drugs, ‘the ghastly paraphernalia of our beneficial trade,’ as he once called, in one of his lectures, the equipment of a professor of the healing craft.
当我描述露西的症状时，和以前一样，但更加明显，他看起来很严肃，但什么也没说。他随身带着一个袋子，里面装着许多仪器和药品，“我们有利贸易的可怕用具”，正如他在一次演讲中所说的那样，是一位治疗技术教授的设备。

When we were shown in, Mrs. Westenra met us. She was alarmed, but not nearly so much as I expected to find her. Nature in one of her beneficient moods has ordained that even death has some antidote to its own terrors. Here, in a case where any shock may prove fatal, matters are so ordered that, from some cause or other, the things not personal, even the terrible change in her daughter to whom she is so attached, do not seem to reach her. It is something like the way dame Nature gathers round a foreign body an envelope of some insensitive tissue which can protect from evil that which it would otherwise harm by contact. If this be an ordered selfishness, then we should pause before we condemn any one for the vice of egoism, for there may be deeper root for its causes than we have knowledge of.
当我们被带进去时，韦斯特拉夫人迎接了我们。她很惊慌，但并没有我想象的那么严重。大自然以一种仁慈的心情注定了即使是死亡也有一些解药来消除它本身的恐惧。在这里，在任何震惊都可能致命的情况下，事情是如此有序，以至于出于某种原因，非个人的事情，甚至她如此依恋的女儿的可怕变化，似乎都没有影响到她。这有点像大自然在异物周围聚集了一些不敏感组织的包膜，这些组织可以保护免受邪恶的侵害，否则它会因接触而受到伤害。如果这是一种有序的自私，那么在谴责任何人的利己主义恶习之前，我们应该停下来，因为其原因可能比我们所知的更深。

I used my knowledge of this phase of spiritual pathology, and set down a rule that she should not be present with Lucy, or think of her illness more than was absolutely required. She assented readily, so readily that I saw again the hand of Nature fighting for life. Van Helsing and I were shown up to Lucy’s room. If I was shocked when I saw her yesterday, I was horrified when I saw her today.
我利用我对精神病理学这一阶段的知识，制定了一条规则，即她不应与露西在一起，也不应过多地考虑她的疾病。她爽快地答应了，爽快得让我再次看到了大自然为生命而战的样子。范海辛和我被带到露西的房间。如果说昨天看到她时我感到震惊，那么今天看到她时我感到震惊。

She was ghastly, chalkily pale. The red seemed to have gone even from her lips and gums, and the bones of her face stood out prominently. Her breathing was painful to see or hear. Van Helsing’s face grew set as marble, and his eyebrows converged till they almost touched over his nose. Lucy lay motionless, and did not seem to have strength to speak, so for a while we were all silent. Then Van Helsing beckoned to me, and we went gently out of the room. The instant we had closed the door he stepped quickly along the passage to the next door, which was open. Then he pulled me quickly in with him and closed the door. ‘My god!’ he said. ‘This is dreadful. There is not time to be lost. She will die for sheer want of blood to keep the heart’s action as it should be. There must be a transfusion of blood at once. Is it you or me?’
她的脸色苍白得可怕。她的嘴唇和牙龈上的红色似乎都消失了，脸上的骨头也显得格外突出。她的呼吸看起来或听到都很痛苦。范海辛的脸变得像大理石一样，眉毛皱在一起，几乎快要碰到鼻子了。露西躺着一动不动，似乎没有力气说话，所以一时我们都沉默了。然后范海辛向我招了招手，我们轻轻地走出了房间。我们关上门的那一刻，他沿着通道快速走到隔壁，门开着。然后他迅速把我拉了进去，并关上了门。 “天哪！”他说。 ‘这太可怕了。没有时间可以浪费了。她会因为完全缺乏血液来保持心脏正常运转而死亡。必须立即输血。是你还是我？

‘I am younger and stronger, Professor. It must be me.’
“我更年轻了，也更强壮了，教授。”一定是我。

‘Then get ready at once. I will bring up my bag. I am prepared.’
‘那就赶紧准备吧。我会带上我的包。我已经准备好了。

I went downstairs with him, and as we were going there was a knock at the hall door. When we reached the hall, the maid had just opened the door, and Arthur was stepping quickly in. He rushed up to me, saying in an eager whisper,
我和他一起下了楼，正当我们走的时候，大厅的门被敲响了。当我们到达大厅时，女仆刚刚打开门，亚瑟快步走了进来。他冲到我身边，急切地低声说道：

‘Jack, I was so anxious. I read between the lines of your letter, and have been in an agony. The dad was better, so I ran down here to see for myself. Is not that gentleman Dr. Van Helsing? I am so thankful to you, sir, for coming.’
“杰克，我太着急了。我读了你信的字里行间，感到非常痛苦。爸爸的情况好多了，所以我跑来这里亲自看看。这位先生不是范海辛博士吗？先生，我非常感谢您的到来。

When first the Professor’s eye had lit upon him, he had been angry at his interruption at such a time, but now, as he took in his stalwart proportions and recognized the strong young manhood which seemed to emanate from him, his eyes gleamed. Without a pause he said to him as he held out his hand,
当教授的眼睛第一次落在他身上时，他对他在这个时候的打扰感到愤怒，但现在，当他看到他魁梧的身材并认识到他身上似乎散发着强大的年轻人气时，他的眼睛闪闪发光。他伸出手，没有停顿地对他说道：

‘Sir, you have come in time. You are the lover of our dear miss. She is bad, very, very bad. Nay, my child, do not go like that.’ For he suddenly grew pale and sat down in a chair almost fainting. ‘You are to help her. You can do more than any that live, and your courage is your best help.’
‘先生，您来得正是时候。你是我们亲爱的小姐的情人。她很坏，非常非常坏。不，我的孩子，不要那样走。”因为他突然脸色苍白，坐在椅子上，几乎晕倒了。 ‘你要帮助她。你能做的比任何活着的人都多，你的勇气是你最好的帮助。

‘What can I do?’ asked Arthur hoarsely. ‘Tell me, and I shall do it. My life is hers, and I would give the last drop of blood in my body for her.’
“我能做什么？”阿瑟沙哑地问道。 ‘告诉我，我就会做到。我的生命是她的，我愿意为她献出我体内的最后一滴血。

The Professor has a strongly humorous side, and I could from old knowledge detect a trace of its origin in his answer.
教授有很强的幽默感，从他的回答中我可以从旧知识中发现一丝幽默的根源。

‘My young sir, I do not ask so much as that, not the last!’
“我的年轻先生，我不要求这么多，不是最后一个！”

‘What shall I do?’ There was fire in his eyes, and his open nostrils quivered with intent. Van Helsing slapped him on the shoulder.
“我该怎么办？”他的眼睛里充满了火焰，张开的鼻孔因专注而颤抖。范海辛拍了拍他的肩膀。

‘Come!’ he said. ‘You are a man, and it is a man we want. You are better than me, better than my friend John.’ Arthur looked bewildered, and the Professor went on by explaining in a kindly way.
“来吧！”他说。 ‘你是一个男人，也是我们想要的男人。你比我更好，比我的朋友约翰更好。”亚瑟看上去很困惑，教授继续友善地解释道。

‘Young miss is bad, very bad. She wants blood, and blood she must have or die. My friend John and I have consulted, and we are about to perform what we call transfusion of blood, to transfer from full veins of one to the empty veins which pine for him. John was to give his blood, as he is the more young and strong than me.’—Here Arthur took my hand and wrung it hard in silence.—‘But now you are here, you are more good than us, old or young, who toil much in the world of thought. Our nerves are not so calm and our blood so bright than yours!’
‘小姐不好，非常不好。她想要血，她必须拥有血，否则就会死。我和我的朋友约翰已经商量过了，我们即将进行所谓的输血，将一个人的满血静脉转移到渴望他的空静脉中。约翰要献出他的血，因为他比我更年轻、更强壮。”——这时，亚瑟握住我的手，默默地用力绞着。——“但现在你在这里，你比我们好，无论老少。 ，他们在思想世界里付出了很多努力。我们的神经没有你们那么平静，我们的血液没有你们那么鲜亮！

Arthur turned to him and said, ‘If you only knew how gladly I would die for her you would understand …’ He stopped with a sort of choke in his voice.
亚瑟转向他说：“如果你知道我多么乐意为她而死，你就会明白……”他的声音有些哽咽，停了下来。

‘Good boy!’ said Van Helsing. ‘In the not-so-far-off you will be happy that you have done all for her you love. Come now and be silent. You shall kiss her once before it is done, but then you must go, and you must leave at my sign. Say no word to Madame. You know how it is with her. There must be no shock, any knowledge of this would be one. Come!’
“好孩子！”范海辛说。 “在不久的将来，你会很高兴你为你所爱的她做了一切。现在来吧，保持沉默。完成之前你要吻她一次，但之后你必须走，而且你必须在我的示意下离开。不要对夫人说任何话。你知道她的情况如何。一定不要感到震惊，任何了解这一点的人都会感到震惊。来！'

We all went up to Lucy’s room. Arthur by direction remained outside. Lucy turned her head and looked at us, but said nothing. She was not asleep, but she was simply too weak to make the effort. Her eyes spoke to us, that was all.
我们都去了露西的房间。亚瑟按照指示留在外面。露西转过头看着我们，但什么也没说。她没有睡着，但她太虚弱了，无法做出努力。她的眼睛在对我们说话，仅此而已。

Van Helsing took some things from his bag and laid them on a little table out of sight. Then he mixed a narcotic, and coming over to the bed, said cheerily, ‘Now, little miss, here is your medicine. Drink it off, like a good child. See, I lift you so that to swallow is easy. Yes.’ She had made the effort with success.
范海辛从包里拿出一些东西，放在看不见的小桌子上。然后他配了一种麻醉剂，走到床边，高兴地说：“现在，小小姐，这是你的药。”像个好孩子一样喝掉它。看，我把你举起来，这样吞咽就容易了。是的。”她的努力取得了成功。

It astonished me how long the drug took to act. This, in fact, marked the extent of her weakness. The time seemed endless until sleep began to flicker in her eyelids. At last, however, the narcotic began to manifest its potency, and she fell into a deep sleep. When the Professor was satisfied, he called Arthur into the room, and bade him strip off his coat. Then he added, ‘You may take that one little kiss whiles I bring over the table. Friend John, help to me!’ So neither of us looked whilst he bent over her.
让我惊讶的是这种药物需要多长时间才能发挥作用。事实上，这标志着她的弱点的程度。时间似乎没有尽头，直到睡意开始在她的眼皮上闪烁。然而，麻醉剂终于发挥了效力，她陷入了沉睡。当教授满意后，他把亚瑟叫进房间，并要求他脱掉外套。然后他补充道：“我把桌子搬过来的时候，你可以接受这个小小的吻。”朋友约翰，救救我吧！”所以当他弯下腰来时，我们谁也没有看。

Van Helsing, turning to me, said, ‘He is so young and strong, and of blood so pure that we need not defibrinate it.’
范海辛转向我说：“他如此年轻、强壮，血统如此纯净，我们不需要将其去纤维。”

Then with swiftness, but with absolute method, Van Helsing performed the operation. As the transfusion went on, something like life seemed to come back to poor Lucy’s cheeks, and through Arthur’s growing pallor the joy of his face seemed absolutely to shine. After a bit I began to grow anxious, for the loss of blood was telling on Arthur, strong man as he was. It gave me an idea of what a terrible strain Lucy’s system must have undergone that what weakened Arthur only partially restored her.
然后，范海辛迅速而绝对地进行了手术。随着输血的继续，可怜的露西的脸颊似乎又恢复了生机，透过亚瑟日渐苍白的脸色，他脸上的喜悦似乎绝对闪耀着。过了一会儿，我开始变得焦虑起来，因为失血对亚瑟这个坚强的人来说是有影响的。这让我明白，露西的身体系统一定承受了多么可怕的压力，以至于削弱了亚瑟的力量只能部分恢复她的能力。

But the Professor’s face was set, and he stood watch in hand, and with his eyes fixed now on the patient and now on Arthur. I could hear my own heart beat. Presently, he said in a soft voice, ‘Do not stir an instant. It is enough. You attend him. I will look to her.’
但教授的表情很坚定，他手里拿着手表，眼睛一会儿盯着病人，一会儿盯着亚瑟。我能听到自己的心跳声。当下，他轻声说道：“一刻都不要动。”这就足够了。你去参加他。我会看看她。

When all was over, I could see how much Arthur was weakened. I dressed the wound and took his arm to bring him away, when Van Helsing spoke without turning round, the man seems to have eyes in the back of his head, ‘The brave lover, I think, deserve another kiss, which he shall have presently.’ And as he had now finished his operation, he adjusted the pillow to the patient’s head. As he did so the narrow black velvet band which she seems always to wear round her throat, buckled with an old diamond buckle which her lover had given her, was dragged a little up, and showed a red mark on her throat.
当一切结束后，我可以看到亚瑟被削弱了多少。我包扎好伤口，拉着他的手臂把他带走，当范海辛头也不回地说话时，这个男人的后脑勺似乎长着眼睛，“我想，勇敢的爱人值得再吻一次，他应该再吻一次”现在，他已经完成了手术，将枕头调整到病人的头部。当他这样做时，她似乎总是戴着一条狭窄的黑色天鹅绒带子，上面系着她情人送给她的旧钻石扣，这条带子被向上拉了一点，在她的喉咙上露出了一个红色的痕迹。

Arthur did not notice it, but I could hear the deep hiss of indrawn breath which is one of Van Helsing’s ways of betraying emotion. He said nothing at the moment, but turned to me, saying, ‘Now take down our brave young lover, give him of the port wine, and let him lie down a while. He must then go home and rest, sleep much and eat much, that he may be recruited of what he has so given to his love. He must not stay here. Hold a moment! I may take it, sir, that you are anxious of result. Then bring it with you, that in all ways the operation is successful. You have saved her life this time, and you can go home and rest easy in mind that all that can be is. I shall tell her all when she is well. She shall love you none the less for what you have done. Goodbye.’
阿瑟没有注意到，但我能听到深吸一口气的嘶嘶声，这是范海辛背叛情感的方式之一。他当时什么也没说，只是转向我说：“现在带下我们勇敢的年轻情人，给他一杯波特酒，让他躺一会儿。”然后他必须回家休息，多睡多吃，这样他才能重新获得他为他的爱所付出的一切。他绝对不能留在这里。等一下！先生，我可能认为您对结果感到焦虑。然后随身携带，表明手术在各方面都是成功的。这次你救了她的命，你可以回家高枕无忧了，记住一切都可以了。等她康复了，我会告诉她一切。尽管如此，她仍会因为你所做的事而爱你。再见。'

When Arthur had gone I went back to the room. Lucy was sleeping gently, but her breathing was stronger. I could see the counterpane move as her breast heaved. By the bedside sat Van Helsing, looking at her intently. The velvet band again covered the red mark. I asked the Professor in a whisper, ‘What do you make of that mark on her throat?’
亚瑟走后，我回到房间。露西睡得很轻，但呼吸却更加粗重。当她的胸部起伏时，我可以看到床罩在移动。范海辛坐在床边，专注地看着她。天鹅绒带再次覆盖了红色标记。我低声问教授：“你对她喉咙上的那个痕迹有何看法？”

‘What do you make of it?’
“你觉得怎么样？”

‘I have not examined it yet,’ I answered, and then and there proceeded to loose the band. Just over the external jugular vein there were two punctures, not large, but not wholesome looking. There was no sign of disease, but the edges were white and worn looking, as if by some trituration. It at once occurred to me that that this wound, or whatever it was, might be the means of that manifest loss of blood. But I abandoned the idea as soon as it formed, for such a thing could not be. The whole bed would have been drenched to a scarlet with the blood which the girl must have lost to leave such a pallor as she had before the transfusion.
“我还没有检查过，”我回答道，然后开始松开带子。就在颈外静脉的上方，有两个刺孔，虽然不大，但看上去并不健康。没有任何疾病的迹象，但边缘呈白色且磨损，好像经过了某种研磨。我立刻想到，这个伤口，或者无论它是什么，可能就是导致明显失血的原因。但这个想法一形成我就放弃了，因为这是不可能的。整张床都会被血染成猩红色，女孩一定是失去了血，才会留下输血前那样苍白的脸色。

‘Well?’ said Van Helsing.
“怎么样？”范海辛说。

‘Well,’ said I. ‘I can make nothing of it.’
“好吧，”我说，“我对此一无所知。”

The Professor stood up. ‘I must go back to Amsterdam tonight,’ he said ‘There are books and things there which I want. You must remain here all night, and you must not let your sight pass from her.’
教授站了起来。 “今晚我必须回阿姆斯特丹，”他说，“那里有我想要的书和东西。”你必须整夜留在这里，你的视线不能从她身上移开。

‘Shall I have a nurse?’ I asked.
“我需要一名护士吗？”我问道。

‘We are the best nurses, you and I. You keep watch all night. See that she is well fed, and that nothing disturbs her. You must not sleep all the night. Later on we can sleep, you and I. I shall be back as soon as possible. And then we may begin.’
“我们是最好的护士，你和我。你们整夜值班。确保她吃得饱饱的，没有任何事情打扰她。你一定不能整夜睡觉。稍后我们就可以睡觉了，你和我。我会尽快回来的。然后我们就可以开始了。

‘May begin?’ I said. ‘What on earth do you mean?’
“可以开始了吗？”我说。 “你到底是什么意思？”

‘We shall see!’ he answered, as he hurried out. He came back a moment later and put his head inside the door and said with a warning finger held up, ‘Remember, she is your charge. If you leave her, and harm befall, you shall not sleep easy hereafter!’
“我们拭目以待吧！”他一边回答，一边匆匆跑了出去。过了一会儿，他回来了，把头伸进门里，举起手指警告道：“记住，她是你负责的。”如果你离开她，祸事降临，你以后就睡不着觉了！

DR. SEWARD’S DIARY—CONTINUED
博士。苏厄德的日记——续

8 September.—I sat up all night with Lucy. The opiate worked itself off towards dusk, and she waked naturally. She looked a different being from what she had been before the operation. Her spirits even were good, and she was full of a happy vivacity, but I could see evidences of the absolute prostration which she had undergone. When I told Mrs. Westenra that Dr. Van Helsing had directed that I should sit up with her, she almost pooh-poohed the idea, pointing out her daughter’s renewed strength and excellent spirits. I was firm, however, and made preparations for my long vigil. When her maid had prepared her for the night I came in, having in the meantime had supper, and took a seat by the bedside.
9 月 8 日——我和露西彻夜未眠。黄昏时分，鸦片的药效逐渐消失，她自然醒了。她看起来与手术前不同。她的精神甚至很好，充满了快乐的活力，但我可以看到她所经历的彻底崩溃的迹象。当我告诉韦斯特拉夫人范海辛医生指示我应该和她一起坐起来时，她几乎对这个想法嗤之以鼻，指出她女儿重新焕发了力量和出色的精神。不过，我很坚定，并为长时间的守夜做好了准备。当她的女仆为她准备好今晚的食物后，我进来了，同时吃过晚饭，在床边坐下来。

She did not in any way make objection, but looked at me gratefully whenever I caught her eye. After a long spell she seemed sinking off to sleep, but with an effort seemed to pull herself together and shook it off. It was apparent that she did not want to sleep, so I tackled the subject at once.
她并没有提出任何反对，只是每当我看到她的目光时，她都会感激地看着我。过了很长一段时间，她似乎陷入了沉睡，但她似乎努力振作起来，摆脱了睡意。看得出来她不想睡觉，我就直接聊这个话题。

‘You do not want to sleep?’
“你不想睡觉吗？”

‘No. I am afraid.’
'不。恐怕。'

‘Afraid to go to sleep! Why so? It is the boon we all crave for.’
‘害怕睡觉！为什么这样？这是我们都渴望的恩惠。

‘Ah, not if you were like me, if sleep was to you a presage of horror!’
“啊，如果你像我一样，如果睡眠对你来说是恐怖的预兆，那就不会了！”

‘A presage of horror! What on earth do you mean?’
‘恐怖的预兆！你到底是什么意思？

‘I don’t know. Oh, I don’t know. And that is what is so terrible. All this weakness comes to me in sleep, until I dread the very thought.’
'我不知道。哦，我不知道。这就是可怕的地方。所有这些弱点都是在睡梦中出现的，直到我一想到这个就感到害怕。

‘But, my dear girl, you may sleep tonight. I am here watching you, and I can promise that nothing will happen.’
“但是，我亲爱的女孩，你今晚可以睡觉了。”我在这里看着你，我可以保证不会发生任何事情。

‘Ah, I can trust you!’ she said.
“啊，我可以相信你！”她说。

I seized the opportunity, and said, ‘I promise that if I see any evidence of bad dreams I will wake you at once.’
我抓住这个机会，说道：“我保证，如果我看到任何恶梦的迹象，我会立即叫醒你。”

‘You will? Oh, will you really? How good you are to me. Then I will sleep!’ And almost at the word she gave a deep sigh of relief, and sank back, asleep.
'你会？噢，你真的愿意吗？你对我多好啊。然后我就睡觉了！”听到这句话，她深深地舒了一口气，躺回床上睡着了。

All night long I watched by her. She never stirred, but slept on and on in a deep, tranquil, life-giving, health-giving sleep. Her lips were slightly parted, and her breast rose and fell with the regularity of a pendulum. There was a smile on her face, and it was evident that no bad dreams had come to disturb her peace of mind.
整个晚上我都守在她身边。她一动也不动，只是睡得很深、很平静、充满活力、有益健康。她的嘴唇微微张开，胸部像钟摆一样有规律地上下起伏。她的脸上挂着笑容，显然并没有什么恶梦来打扰她平静的心境。

In the early morning her maid came, and I left her in her care and took myself back home, for I was anxious about many things. I sent a short wire to Van Helsing and to Arthur, telling them of the excellent result of the operation. My own work, with its manifold arrears, took me all day to clear off. It was dark when I was able to inquire about my zoophagous patient. The report was good. He had been quite quiet for the past day and night. A telegram came from Van Helsing at Amsterdam whilst I was at dinner, suggesting that I should be at Hillingham tonight, as it might be well to be at hand, and stating that he was leaving by the night mail and would join me early in the morning.
一大早，她的女仆来了，我把她交给她照顾，自己回家了，因为我担心很多事情。我给范海辛和阿瑟发了一封短信，告诉他们手术的出色结果。我自己的工作，由于多方面的拖欠，花了我一整天的时间才清理干净。当我能够询问我的食兽病人的情况时，天已经黑了。报告很好。这一天一夜，他一直都很安静。我正在吃晚饭时，范海辛从阿姆斯特丹发来了一封电报，建议我今晚应该去希灵厄姆，因为最好在场，并说他将通过夜间邮件离开，并会在早上与我会合。早晨。

9 September.—I was pretty tired and worn out when I got to Hillingham. For two nights I had hardly had a wink of sleep, and my brain was beginning to feel that numbness which marks cerebral exhaustion. Lucy was up and in cheerful spirits. When she shook hands with me she looked sharply in my face and said,
9 月 9 日——当我到达希灵厄姆时，我已经非常疲惫了。两个晚上我几乎没有合眼，我的大脑开始感到麻木，这标志着大脑的疲惫。露西起床了，心情愉快。当她与我握手时，她敏锐地看着我的脸，说道：

‘No sitting up tonight for you. You are worn out. I am quite well again. Indeed, I am, and if there is to be any sitting up, it is I who will sit up with you.’
“今晚不许为你坐着。你已经筋疲力尽了。我又好了。确实，我是，如果要坐起来，我会和你一起坐。

I would not argue the point, but went and had my supper. Lucy came with me, and, enlivened by her charming presence, I made an excellent meal, and had a couple of glasses of the more than excellent port. Then Lucy took me upstairs, and showed me a room next her own, where a cozy fire was burning.
我不会争论这一点，而是去吃晚饭了。露西和我一起来，她迷人的存在让我充满活力，我做了一顿美味的饭菜，还喝了几杯非常美味的波特酒。然后露西带我上楼，给我看了她自己隔壁的一个房间，里面正在燃烧着舒适的火。

‘Now,’ she said. ‘You must stay here. I shall leave this door open and my door too. You can lie on the sofa for I know that nothing would induce any of you doctors to go to bed whilst there is a patient above the horizon. If I want anything I shall call out, and you can come to me at once.’
“现在，”她说。 ‘你必须留在这里。我会让这扇门开着，我的门也开着。你可以躺在沙发上，因为我知道当病人在地平线以上时，没有什么可以促使你们任何医生去睡觉。如果我想要什么，我会喊出来，你可以马上来找我。

I could not but acquiesce, for I was dog tired, and could not have sat up had I tried. So, on her renewing her promise to call me if she should want anything, I lay on the sofa, and forgot all about everything.
我只能默许，因为我太累了，即使我尝试也无法坐起来。所以，当她再次承诺如果她需要什么就打电话给我时，我躺在沙发上，忘记了一切。

LUCY WESTENRA’S DIARY
露西·韦斯特拉的日记

9 September.—I feel so happy tonight. I have been so miserably weak, that to be able to think and move about is like feeling sunshine after a long spell of east wind out of a steel sky. Somehow Arthur feels very, very close to me. I seem to feel his presence warm about me. I suppose it is that sickness and weakness are selfish things and turn our inner eyes and sympathy on ourselves, whilst health and strength give love rein, and in thought and feeling he can wander where he wills. I know where my thoughts are. If only Arthur knew! My dear, my dear, your ears must tingle as you sleep, as mine do waking. Oh, the blissful rest of last night! How I slept, with that dear, good Dr. Seward watching me. And tonight I shall not fear to sleep, since he is close at hand and within call. Thank everybody for being so good to me. Thank God! Goodnight Arthur.
9 月 9 日——今晚我感到很高兴。我已经非常虚弱了，能够思考和活动就像在钢铁天空中经历了长时间的东风之后感受到阳光一样。不知怎的，亚瑟感觉和我非常非常亲近。我似乎感觉到他的存在对我来说很温暖。我想，疾病和虚弱是自私的事情，让我们内心的目光和同情转向我们自己，而健康和力量则给予爱以控制，在思想和感觉上，他可以随心所欲地徘徊。我知道我的想法在哪里。要是亚瑟知道就好了！亲爱的，亲爱的，你睡觉时的耳朵一定会刺痛，就像我醒来时的耳朵一样。噢，昨晚的休息真是太幸福了！我睡得怎么样，亲爱的、善良的苏厄德医生看着我。今晚我将不再害怕入睡，因为他就在我身边，随叫随到。谢谢大家对我这么好。感谢上帝！晚安亚瑟。

DR. SEWARD’S DIARY
博士。苏厄德的日记

10 September.—I was conscious of the Professor’s hand on my head, and started awake all in a second. That is one of the things that we learn in an asylum, at any rate.
9 月 10 日——我意识到教授的手放在我的头上，我立刻就醒了。无论如何，这是我们在精神病院学到的东西之一。

‘And how is our patient?’
“我们的病人怎么样了？”

‘Well, when I left her, or rather when she left me,’ I answered.
“好吧，当我离开她时，或者更确切地说，当她离开我时，”我回答道。

‘Come, let us see,’ he said. And together we went into the room.
“来吧，让我们看看，”他说。我们一起走进房间。

The blind was down, and I went over to raise it gently, whilst Van Helsing stepped, with his soft, cat-like tread, over to the bed.
百叶窗放下了，我走过去轻轻地把它拉起来，而范海辛则迈着猫般柔软的脚步，走到床边。

As I raised the blind, and the morning sunlight flooded the room, I heard the Professor’s low hiss of inspiration, and knowing its rarity, a deadly fear shot through my heart. As I passed over he moved back, and his exclamation of horror, ‘Gott in Himmel!’ needed no enforcement from his agonized face. He raised his hand and pointed to the bed, and his iron face was drawn and ashen white. I felt my knees begin to tremble.
当我拉起百叶窗，清晨的阳光洒满房间时，我听到了教授低沉的灵感嘶嘶声，我知道它的稀有，一种致命的恐惧从我的心里袭来。当我经过时，他向后退了一步，他惊恐地喊道：“到了希梅尔了！”不需要从他痛苦的脸上来强化。他抬起手，指着床边，铁面无私，铁青着脸。我感觉我的膝盖开始颤抖。

There on the bed, seemingly in a swoon, lay poor Lucy, more horribly white and wan-looking than ever. Even the lips were white, and the gums seemed to have shrunken back from the teeth, as we sometimes see in a corpse after a prolonged illness.
可怜的露西躺在床上，看上去似乎处于昏迷状态，她的脸色比以前更苍白、更苍白。就连嘴唇也是白色的，牙龈似乎从牙齿上萎缩了，就像我们有时在长期患病后的尸体上看到的那样。

Van Helsing raised his foot to stamp in anger, but the instinct of his life and all the long years of habit stood to him, and he put it down again softly.
范海辛愤怒地抬起脚来跺脚，但生命的本能和长年的习惯却让他站住了脚，他又轻轻地放下了。

‘Quick!’ he said. ‘Bring the brandy.’
“快点！”他说。 “把白兰地拿来。”

I flew to the dining room, and returned with the decanter. He wetted the poor white lips with it, and together we rubbed palm and wrist and heart. He felt her heart, and after a few moments of agonizing suspense said,
我飞到餐厅，带着醒酒器回来了。他用它润湿了可怜的白唇，我们一起摩擦手掌、手腕和心脏。他感觉到了她的心，在一阵痛苦的悬念之后说道：

‘It is not too late. It beats, though but feebly. All our work is undone. We must begin again. There is no young Arthur here now. I have to call on you yourself this time, friend John.’ As he spoke, he was dipping into his bag, and producing the instruments of transfusion. I had taken off my coat and rolled up my shirt sleeve. There was no possibility of an opiate just at present, and no need of one. and so, without a moment’s delay, we began the operation.
'这还不算太晚。它虽然跳动，但很无力。我们所有的工作都被取消了。我们必须重新开始。现在这里已经没有年轻的亚瑟了。这次我必须亲自拜访你，朋友约翰。”一边说着，他一边把手伸进包里，拿出输血器具。我脱下外套，卷起衬衫袖子。目前不可能有鸦片制剂，也不需要鸦片制剂。于是，我们立即开始了手术。

After a time, it did not seem a short time either, for the draining away of one’s blood, no matter how willingly it be given, is a terrible feeling, Van Helsing held up a warning finger. ‘Do not stir,’ he said. ‘But I fear that with growing strength she may wake, and that would make danger, oh, so much danger. But I shall precaution take. I shall give hypodermic injection of morphia.’ He proceeded then, swiftly and deftly, to carry out his intent.
过了一段时间，时间似乎也不短了，因为血液被抽干，无论多么心甘情愿，都是一种可怕的感觉，范海辛竖起一根手指警告道。 “别动，”他说。 “但我担心，随着她力量的增强，她可能会醒来，这会带来危险，哦，非常危险。”但我会采取预防措施。我将皮下注射吗啡。”然后他迅速而熟练地执行他的意图。

The effect on Lucy was not bad, for the faint seemed to merge subtly into the narcotic sleep. It was with a feeling of personal pride that I could see a faint tinge of colour steal back into the pallid cheeks and lips. No man knows, till he experiences it, what it is to feel his own lifeblood drawn away into the veins of the woman he loves.
对露西的影响还不错，因为昏厥似乎巧妙地融入了麻醉性睡眠。带着一种个人自豪感，我看到苍白的脸颊和嘴唇又重新出现了淡淡的色彩。在亲身经历之前，没有人知道自己的生命线被抽入他所爱的女人的血管中是什么感觉。

The Professor watched me critically. ‘That will do,’ he said. ‘Already?’ I remonstrated. ‘You took a great deal more from Art.’ To which he smiled a sad sort of smile as he replied,
教授批判地看着我。 “这样就可以了，”他说。 “已经？”我抗议道。 “你从艺术中学到了很多东西。”对此，他微笑着回答道：

‘He is her lover, her fiance. You have work, much work to do for her and for others, and the present will suffice.’
‘他是她的情人，她的未婚夫。你有工作，为她和他人做很多工作，现在就足够了。

When we stopped the operation, he attended to Lucy, whilst I applied digital pressure to my own incision. I laid down, while I waited his leisure to attend to me, for I felt faint and a little sick. By and by he bound up my wound, and sent me downstairs to get a glass of wine for myself. As I was leaving the room, he came after me, and half whispered.
当我们停止手术时，他照顾露西，而我则用手指按压自己的切口。我躺下，等待他有空来照顾我，因为我感到头晕，有点恶心。渐渐地，他包扎了我的伤口，并送我下楼去给自己倒了一杯酒。当我离开房间时，他追上来，低声说道。

‘Mind, nothing must be said of this. If our young lover should turn up unexpected, as before, no word to him. It would at once frighten him and enjealous him, too. There must be none. So!’
‘注意，这件事什么也不能说。如果我们的年轻情人像以前一样出人意料地出现，请不要对他说任何话。这会立刻让他害怕，也会让他嫉妒。一定没有。所以！'

When I came back he looked at me carefully, and then said, ‘You are not much the worse. Go into the room, and lie on your sofa, and rest awhile, then have much breakfast and come here to me.’
当我回来时，他仔细地看着我，然后说：‘你也没有差多少。进屋去，躺在沙发上休息一会儿，吃完早饭就到我这里来。

I followed out his orders, for I knew how right and wise they were. I had done my part, and now my next duty was to keep up my strength. I felt very weak, and in the weakness lost something of the amazement at what had occurred. I fell asleep on the sofa, however, wondering over and over again how Lucy had made such a retrograde movement, and how she could have been drained of so much blood with no sign any where to show for it. I think I must have continued my wonder in my dreams, for, sleeping and waking my thoughts always came back to the little punctures in her throat and the ragged, exhausted appearance of their edges, tiny though they were.
我听从了他的命令，因为我知道这些命令是多么正确和明智。我已经尽了自己的职责，现在我的下一个任务就是保持体力。我感到非常虚弱，在虚弱之中，我失去了对所发生的事情的一些惊讶。然而，我却在沙发上睡着了，心里一遍又一遍地想，露西是怎么做出这样的逆行动作的，她怎么会流掉这么多的血，却没有任何迹象表明它在哪里。我想我一定是在梦中继续着我的惊奇，因为无论睡觉还是醒来，我的思绪总是会回到她喉咙上的小刺孔，以及它们边缘的粗糙、疲惫的外观，尽管它们很小。

Lucy slept well into the day, and when she woke she was fairly well and strong, though not nearly so much so as the day before. When Van Helsing had seen her, he went out for a walk, leaving me in charge, with strict injunctions that I was not to leave her for a moment. I could hear his voice in the hall, asking the way to the nearest telegraph office.
露西这一天睡得很好，当她醒来时，她的身体状况相当好，身体也很强壮，尽管不如前一天那么好。范海辛见到她后，就出去散步，让我负责，并严格要求我一刻都不能离开她。我可以听到他在大厅里的声音，询问去最近的电报局的路。

Lucy chatted with me freely, and seemed quite unconscious that anything had happened. I tried to keep her amused and interested. When her mother came up to see her, she did not seem to notice any change whatever, but said to me gratefully,
露西随意地和我聊天，似乎完全没有意识到发生了什么事情。我试图让她感到有趣和感兴趣。当她妈妈来看她时，她似乎没有发现任何变化，只是感激地对我说：

‘We owe you so much, Dr. Seward, for all you have done, but you really must now take care not to overwork yourself. You are looking pale yourself. You want a wife to nurse and look after you a bit, that you do!’ As she spoke, Lucy turned crimson, though it was only momentarily, for her poor wasted veins could not stand for long an unwonted drain to the head. The reaction came in excessive pallor as she turned imploring eyes on me. I smiled and nodded, and laid my finger on my lips. With a sigh, she sank back amid her pillows.
“我们非常感谢你，苏厄德博士，感谢你所做的一切，但你现在必须注意不要过度劳累。”你自己看上去脸色苍白。你想要一个妻子来照顾你，你就是这么做的！”当她说话的时候，露西的脸涨得通红，尽管这只是一瞬间的事，因为她那可怜的、枯萎的血管无法忍受长时间的不寻常的流向头部的情况。当她用恳求的眼神看着我时，我的反应变得极其苍白。我微笑着点点头，把手指放在嘴唇上。她叹了口气，坐回枕头里。

Van Helsing returned in a couple of hours, and presently said to me. ‘Now you go home, and eat much and drink enough. Make yourself strong. I stay here tonight, and I shall sit up with little miss myself. You and I must watch the case, and we must have none other to know. I have grave reasons. No, do not ask me. Think what you will. Do not fear to think even the most not-improbable. Goodnight.’
几个小时后范海辛回来了，并对我说道。 ‘现在你回家吧，吃得多，喝得够。让自己坚强起来。今晚我就留在这里，我会和小小姐一起坐起来。你和我必须关注这个案子，而且我们不能让任何人知道。我有很严重的理由。不，不要问我。你想怎么想就怎么想。即使是最不可能的事情也不要害怕。晚安。'

In the hall two of the maids came to me, and asked if they or either of them might not sit up with Miss Lucy. They implored me to let them, and when I said it was Dr. Van Helsing’s wish that either he or I should sit up, they asked me quite piteously to intercede with the‘foreign gentleman’. I was much touched by their kindness. Perhaps it is because I am weak at present, and perhaps because it was on Lucy’s account, that their devotion was manifested. For over and over again have I seen similar instances of woman’s kindness. I got back here in time for a late dinner, went my rounds, all well, and set this down whilst waiting for sleep. It is coming.
大厅里，两个女仆向我走来，问她们或其中一人是否可以和露西小姐坐在一起。他们恳求我让他们这么做，当我说范海辛博士希望他或我应该坐起来时，他们非常可怜地要求我向这位“外国绅士”求情。他们的善意让我非常感动。或许是因为我现在身体虚弱，或许是因为露西的缘故，才体现了他们的虔诚。我一次又一次地看到类似的女性仁慈的例子。我及时回到这里吃晚饭，四处巡视，一切顺利，然后在等待睡觉时把它放下。它来了。

11 September.—This afternoon I went over to Hillingham. Found Van Helsing in excellent spirits, and Lucy much better. Shortly after I had arrived, a big parcel from abroad came for the Professor. He opened it with much impressment, assumed, of course, and showed a great bundle of white flowers.
9 月 11 日——今天下午我去了希灵厄姆。发现范海辛精神抖擞，露西也好多了。我到达后不久，从国外寄来了一个大包裹给教授。他当然以为他很惊讶地打开了它，并展示了一大束白花。

‘These are for you, Miss Lucy,’ he said.
“这些是给你的，露西小姐，”他说。

‘For me? Oh, Dr. Van Helsing!’
'为我？哦，范海辛博士！

‘Yes, my dear, but not for you to play with. These are medicines.’ Here Lucy made a wry face. ‘Nay, but they are not to take in a decoction or in nauseous form, so you need not snub that so charming nose, or I shall point out to my friend Arthur what woes he may have to endure in seeing so much beauty that he so loves so much distort. Aha, my pretty miss, that bring the so nice nose all straight again. This is medicinal, but you do not know how. I put him in your window, I make pretty wreath, and hang him round your neck, so you sleep well. Oh, yes! They, like the lotus flower, make your trouble forgotten. It smell so like the waters of Lethe, and of that fountain of youth that the Conquistadores sought for in the Floridas, and find him all too late.’
‘是的，亲爱的，但不是给你玩的。这些是药物。”说到这里，露西做了个苦脸。 “不，但它们不能服用汤剂或令人作呕的形式，所以你不必冷落那迷人的鼻子，否则我会向我的朋友亚瑟指出，他在看到如此多的美丽时可能必须忍受什么痛苦。如此爱如此扭曲。啊哈，我漂亮的小姐，她把那么漂亮的鼻子又恢复直了。这是药用的，但你不知道如何。我把他放在你的窗户上，我做了一个漂亮的花环，把他挂在你的脖子上，这样你就睡得香了。哦是的！它们就像莲花一样，让你忘记烦恼。它闻起来很像忘川的水，还有征服者在佛罗里达寻找的青春之泉，但发现他时已经太晚了。

Whilst he was speaking, Lucy had been examining the flowers and smelling them. Now she threw them down saying, with half laughter, and half disgust,
当他说话的时候，露西一直在检查那些花，闻着它们的气味。现在她把它们扔到一边，一半是笑，一半是厌恶，说道：

‘Oh, Professor, I believe you are only putting up a joke on me. Why, these flowers are only common garlic.’
“哦，教授，我相信你只是在跟我开玩笑。为什么，这些花只是普通的大蒜。

To my surprise, Van Helsing rose up and said with all his sternness, his iron jaw set and his bushy eyebrows meeting,
令我惊讶的是，范海辛站起来，铁下巴紧闭，浓密的眉毛交汇，表情严肃地说：

‘No trifling with me! I never jest! There is grim purpose in what I do, and I warn you that you do not thwart me. Take care, for the sake of others if not for your own.’ Then seeing poor Lucy scared, as she might well be, he went on more gently, ‘Oh, little miss, my dear, do not fear me. I only do for your good, but there is much virtue to you in those so common flowers. See, I place them myself in your room. I make myself the wreath that you are to wear. But hush! No telling to others that make so inquisitive questions. We must obey, and silence is a part of obedience, and obedience is to bring you strong and well into loving arms that wait for you. Now sit still a while. Come with me, friend John, and you shall help me deck the room with my garlic, which is all the war from Haarlem, where my friend Vanderpool raise herb in his glass houses all the year. I had to telegraph yesterday, or they would not have been here.’
‘别跟我开玩笑！我从来不开玩笑！我所做的事有着严峻的目的，我警告你不要阻止我。小心一点，如果不是为了你自己，也为了别人。”然后看到可怜的露西害怕了，因为她很可能会害怕，他更温和地继续说道，“哦，小小姐，亲爱的，不要害怕我。我这样做只是为了你好，但这些平凡的花朵对你来说却有很多美德。看，我亲自把它们放在你的房间里。我给自己做了一个你要戴的花环。但是安静！不会告诉其他提出如此好奇问题的人。我们必须服从，沉默是服从的一部分，服从是为了让你坚强、健康地进入等待着你的爱的怀抱。现在静坐一会儿。跟我来，朋友约翰，你会帮我用大蒜装饰房间，这是来自哈勒姆的所有战争，我的朋友范德普尔在那里全年都在他的玻璃房子里种植香草。我昨天必须打电报，否则他们就不会来了。”

We went into the room, taking the flowers with us. The Professor’s actions were certainly odd and not to be found in any pharmacopeia that I ever heard of. First he fastened up the windows and latched them securely. Next, taking a handful of the flowers, he rubbed them all over the sashes, as though to ensure that every whiff of air that might get in would be laden with the garlic smell. Then with the wisp he rubbed all over the jamb of the door, above, below, and at each side, and round the fireplace in the same way. It all seemed grotesque to me, and presently I said, ‘Well, Professor, I know you always have a reason for what you do, but this certainly puzzles me. It is well we have no sceptic here, or he would say that you were working some spell to keep out an evil spirit.’
我们带着花走进房间。教授的行为确实很奇怪，在我听说过的任何药典中都找不到。首先，他把窗户关紧并锁紧。接下来，他抓起一把花，将它们擦在窗框上，仿佛要确保每一缕可能进入的空气都充满大蒜味。然后，他用小缕擦拭门框的上方、下方和两侧，并以同样的方式擦拭壁炉周围。这一切对我来说似乎很怪诞，不久我说：“好吧，教授，我知道你做事总是有理由的，但这确实让我困惑。”幸好我们这里没有怀疑论者，否则他会说你正在施展某种咒语来驱赶邪灵。”

‘Perhaps I am!’ He answered quietly as he began to make the wreath which Lucy was to wear round her neck.
“也许是吧！”他一边轻声回答，一边开始制作露西要戴在脖子上的花环。

We then waited whilst Lucy made her toilet for the night, and when she was in bed he came and himself fixed the wreath of garlic round her neck. The last words he said to her were,
然后我们等着露西给她准备晚上的厕所，当她上床时，他过来亲自把大蒜花环戴在她的脖子上。他对她说的最后一句话是：

‘Take care you do not disturb it, and even if the room feel close, do not tonight open the window or the door.’
“小心不要打扰它，即使房间感觉很近，今晚也不要打开窗户或门。”

‘I promise,’ said Lucy. ‘And thank you both a thousand times for all your kindness to me! Oh, what have I done to be blessed with such friends?’
“我保证，”露西说。 “感谢你们对我的好意一千次！”哦，我做了什么才能有这样的朋友呢？

As we left the house in my fly, which was waiting, Van Helsing said, ‘Tonight I can sleep in peace, and sleep I want, two nights of travel, much reading in the day between, and much anxiety on the day to follow, and a night to sit up, without to wink. Tomorrow in the morning early you call for me, and we come together to see our pretty miss, so much more strong for my ‘spell’ which I have work. Ho, ho!’
当我们乘着正在等待的飞机离开家时，范海辛说：“今晚我可以安然入睡，我想要的睡眠，两个晚上的旅行，白天的大量阅读，以及接下来的一天的焦虑，一整夜坐起来，不眨眼。明天一早你就来找我，我们一起来看望我们漂亮的小姐，她对我工作的“咒语”来说更加强烈。嗬，嗬！

He seemed so confident that I, remembering my own confidence two nights before and with the baneful result, felt awe and vague terror. It must have been my weakness that made me hesitate to tell it to my friend, but I felt it all the more, like unshed tears.
他看起来如此自信，以至于我想起两天前我自己的自信以及带来的可怕结果，感到敬畏和隐约的恐惧。一定是我的弱点让我犹豫是否要告诉我的朋友，但我更能感受到这一点，就像未流下的眼泪。

Chapter 11
第11章

LUCY WESTENRA’S DIARY
露西·韦斯特拉的日记

12 September.—How good they all are to me. I quite love that dear Dr. Van Helsing. I wonder why he was so anxious about these flowers. He positively frightened me, he was so fierce. And yet he must have been right, for I feel comfort from them already. Somehow, I do not dread being alone tonight, and I can go to sleep without fear. I shall not mind any flapping outside the window. Oh, the terrible struggle that I have had against sleep so often of late, the pain of sleeplessness, or the pain of the fear of sleep, and with such unknown horrors as it has for me! How blessed are some people, whose lives have no fears, no dreads, to whom sleep is a blessing that comes nightly, and brings nothing but sweet dreams. Well, here I am tonight, hoping for sleep, and lying like Ophelia in the play, with ‘virgin crants and maiden strewments.’ I never liked garlic before, but tonight it is delightful! There is peace in its smell. I feel sleep coming already. Goodnight, everybody.
9 月 12 日——他们对我来说多么好啊。我非常喜欢亲爱的范海辛博士。我不知道他为什么对这些花这么着急。他确实吓坏了我，他太凶猛了。但他一定是对的，因为我已经从他们身上感到安慰了。不知何故，我不害怕今晚独自一人，我可以毫无恐惧地入睡。我不介意窗外的任何拍打声。哦，最近我经常与睡眠进行可怕的斗争，失眠的痛苦，或者害怕睡眠的痛苦，以及它对我来说如此未知的恐怖！有些人是多么幸福啊，他们的生活没有恐惧，没有畏惧，睡眠对他们来说是每晚的祝福，带来的只是甜蜜的梦。好吧，今晚我就在这里，希望能睡个好觉，像剧中的奥菲莉亚一样躺着，带着“处女的蔓越莓和少女的碎片”。我以前从来不喜欢大蒜，但今晚真是令人愉快！它的气味充满和平。我感觉睡眠即将来临。晚安各位。

DR. SEWARD’S DIARY
博士。苏厄德的日记

13 September.—Called at the Berkeley and found Van Helsing, as usual, up to time. The carriage ordered from the hotel was waiting. The Professor took his bag, which he always brings with him now.
9 月 13 日——拜访伯克利，发现范海辛像往常一样准时到达。从酒店订的马车已经在等候了。教授接过他现在总是随身携带的包。

Let all be put down exactly. Van Helsing and I arrived at Hillingham at eight o’clock. It was a lovely morning. The bright sunshine and all the fresh feeling of early autumn seemed like the completion of nature’s annual work. The leaves were turning to all kinds of beautiful colours, but had not yet begun to drop from the trees. When we entered we met Mrs. Westenra coming out of the morning room. She is always an early riser. She greeted us warmly and said,
让一切都被准确地记录下来。范海辛和我八点钟到达希灵厄姆。这是一个美好的早晨。明媚的阳光和初秋的清新感觉，仿佛大自然一年一度的工作完成了。树叶正在变成各种美丽的颜色，但还没有开始从树上掉落。当我们进去时，我们遇到了从起居室出来的韦斯特拉夫人。她总是早起。她热情地向我们打招呼，并说道：

‘You will be glad to know that Lucy is better. The dear child is still asleep. I looked into her room and saw her, but did not go in, lest I should disturb her.’ The Professor smiled, and looked quite jubilant. He rubbed his hands together, and said, ‘Aha! I thought I had diagnosed the case. My treatment is working.’
“你会很高兴知道露西好多了。亲爱的孩子还在睡觉。我向她的房间望去，看到了她，但没有进去，以免打扰她。”教授微笑着，看上去很高兴。他搓着手，说道：“啊哈！我以为我已经诊断出这个病例了。我的治疗有效。

To which she replied, ‘You must not take all the credit to yourself, doctor. Lucy’s state this morning is due in part to me.’
她回答说：“你不能把所有的功劳都归在你自己身上，医生。”露西今天早上的状态有一部分是我造成的。”

‘How do you mean, ma’am?’ asked the Professor.
“您是什么意思，女士？”教授问。

‘Well, I was anxious about the dear child in the night, and went into her room. She was sleeping soundly, so soundly that even my coming did not wake her. But the room was awfully stuffy. There were a lot of those horrible, strong-smelling flowers about everywhere, and she had actually a bunch of them round her neck. I feared that the heavy odour would be too much for the dear child in her weak state, so I took them all away and opened a bit of the window to let in a little fresh air. You will be pleased with her, I am sure.’
‘嗯，晚上我担心这个可爱的孩子，就走进了她的房间。她睡得很香，熟得连我的到来都没有吵醒她。但房间里非常闷。到处都有很多那些可怕的、气味浓烈的花朵，而她的脖子上竟然挂着一束这样的花朵。我怕这股浓重的臭味对身体虚弱的宝贝孩子来说太难受了，所以我把它们全部拿走了，并打开了一点窗户，让一些新鲜空气进来。我相信你会对她感到满意的。

She moved off into her boudoir, where she usually breakfasted early. As she had spoken, I watched the Professor’s face, and saw it turn ashen gray. He had been able to retain his self-command whilst the poor lady was present, for he knew her state and how mischievous a shock would be. He actually smiled on her as he held open the door for her to pass into her room. But the instant she had disappeared he pulled me, suddenly and forcibly, into the dining room and closed the door.
她搬进了自己的闺房，她通常很早就在那里吃早餐。当她说话时，我看着教授的脸，发现它变成了灰白色。当那位可怜的女士在场时，他能够保持自制力，因为他知道她的状态，也知道震惊会是多么的恶作剧。当他打开门让她进入她的房间时，他实际上对她微笑。但她一消失，他就突然强行把我拉进餐厅，关上了门。

Then, for the first time in my life, I saw Van Helsing break down. He raised his hands over his head in a sort of mute despair, and then beat his palms together in a helpless way. Finally he sat down on a chair, and putting his hands before his face, began to sob, with loud, dry sobs that seemed to come from the very racking of his heart.
然后，我有生以来第一次看到范海辛崩溃了。他以一种无声的绝望举起双手举过头顶，然后无助地合拢手掌。最后他坐在椅子上，双手捂着脸，开始抽泣，声音响亮、干涩，似乎是从他内心的痛苦中发出的。

Then he raised his arms again, as though appealing to the whole universe. ‘God! God! God!’ he said. ‘What have we done, what has this poor thing done, that we are so sore beset? Is there fate amongst us still, send down from the pagan world of old, that such things must be, and in such way? This poor mother, all unknowing, and all for the best as she think, does such thing as lose her daughter body and soul, and we must not tell her, we must not even warn her, or she die, then both die. Oh, how we are beset! How are all the powers of the devils against us!’
然后他再次举起双臂，仿佛在向整个宇宙呼吁。 '上帝！上帝！天哪！”他说。 ‘我们做了什么，这个可怜的东西做了什么，让我们陷入如此痛苦的困境？从古老的异教世界传下来的命运，在我们中间是否仍然存在，这样的事情一定是这样的，而且是以这样的方式？这位可怜的母亲，在全然不知的情况下，正如她所想的那样，做了这样的事，失去了女儿的身体和灵魂，我们不能告诉她，我们甚至不能警告她，否则她死了，然后两个人都死了。哦，我们多么被困扰啊！魔鬼的所有力量如何对抗我们！

Suddenly he jumped to his feet. ‘Come,’ he said, ‘come, we must see and act. Devils or no devils, or all the devils at once, it matters not. We must fight him all the same.’ He went to the hall door for his bag, and together we went up to Lucy’s room.
突然他跳了起来。 ‘来吧，’他说，‘来吧，我们必须观察并采取行动。有魔鬼，没有魔鬼，或者同时有所有魔鬼，这都不重要。我们无论如何都必须和他战斗。”他走到大厅门口拿包，然后我们一起去了露西的房间。

Once again I drew up the blind, whilst Van Helsing went towards the bed. This time he did not start as he looked on the poor face with the same awful, waxen pallor as before. He wore a look of stern sadness and infinite pity.
我再次拉起百叶窗，范海辛则走向床边。这次他没有惊慌，因为他看着那张可怜的脸，脸上的表情和以前一样可怕，蜡状苍白。他的神情中充满了严厉的悲伤和无限的怜悯。

‘As I expected,’ he murmured, with that hissing inspiration of his which meant so much. Without a word he went and locked the door, and then began to set out on the little table the instruments for yet another operation of transfusion of blood. I had long ago recognized the necessity, and begun to take off my coat, but he stopped me with a warning hand. ‘No!’ he said. ‘Today you must operate. I shall provide. You are weakened already.’ As he spoke he took off his coat and rolled up his shirtsleeve.
“正如我所料，”他低声说道，他那嘶嘶作响的灵感意义重大。他二话不说，走过去锁上门，然后开始在小桌子上摆放另一次输血手术的器械。我早就意识到了必要性，开始脱掉外套，但他用警告的手势阻止了我。 “不！”他说。 ‘今天你必须手术。我来提供。你已经很虚弱了。”说着，他脱下了外套，卷起了衬衫袖子。

Again the operation. Again the narcotic. Again some return of colour to the ashy cheeks, and the regular breathing of healthy sleep. This time I watched whilst Van Helsing recruited himself and rested.
再次进行操作。又是麻醉剂。苍白的脸颊又恢复了一些颜色，健康睡眠的呼吸也恢复了规律。这次我在范海辛恢复状态并休息时观看。

Presently he took an opportunity of telling Mrs. Westenra that she must not remove anything from Lucy’s room without consulting him. That the flowers were of medicinal value, and that the breathing of their odour was a part of the system of cure. Then he took over the care of the case himself, saying that he would watch this night and the next, and would send me word when to come.
不久，他趁机告诉韦斯特拉夫人，未经他同意，她不得从露西的房间里拿走任何东西。这些花具有药用价值，呼吸它们的气味是治疗系统的一部分。然后他亲自接手处理这个案子，说他今晚和明晚都会看守，并会通知我什么时候来。

After another hour Lucy waked from her sleep, fresh and bright and seemingly not much the worse for her terrible ordeal.
又过了一个小时，露西从睡梦中醒来，精神焕发，精神焕发，似乎并没有因为可怕的磨难而变得更糟。

What does it all mean? I am beginning to wonder if my long habit of life amongst the insane is beginning to tell upon my own brain.
这是什么意思呢？我开始怀疑我长期生活在疯子中的习惯是否开始影响我自己的大脑。

LUCY WESTENRA’S DIARY
露西·韦斯特拉的日记

17 September.—Four days and nights of peace. I am getting so strong again that I hardly know myself. It is as if I had passed through some long nightmare, and had just awakened to see the beautiful sunshine and feel the fresh air of the morning around me. I have a dim half remembrance of long, anxious times of waiting and fearing, darkness in which there was not even the pain of hope to make present distress more poignant. And then long spells of oblivion, and the rising back to life as a diver coming up through a great press of water. Since, however, Dr. Van Helsing has been with me, all this bad dreaming seems to have passed away. The noises that used to frighten me out of my wits, the flapping against the windows, the distant voices which seemed so close to me, the harsh sounds that came from I know not where and commanded me to do I know not what, have all ceased. I go to bed now without any fear of sleep. I do not even try to keep awake. I have grown quite fond of the garlic, and a boxful arrives for me every day from Haarlem. Tonight Dr. Van Helsing is going away, as he has to be for a day in Amsterdam. But I need not be watched. I am well enough to be left alone.
9 月 17 日——平静的四天四夜。我又变得如此坚强，以至于我几乎不认识自己了。就好像我经历了一场漫长的噩梦，刚刚醒来，看到了美丽的阳光，感受到了早晨清新的空气围绕着我。我依稀记得漫长而焦虑的等待和恐惧时光，黑暗中甚至没有希望的痛苦，无法使当前的痛苦变得更加令人心酸。然后是长时间的遗忘，然后像一名潜水员从巨大的水压中苏醒过来。然而，自从范海辛博士和我在一起以来，所有这些噩梦似乎都消失了。曾经把我吓得魂不附体的声音，拍打窗户的声音，远处看似离我那么近的声音，不知从哪里传来的刺耳的声音，命令我做我不知道做什么的事，都已经过去了。停止了。我现在就去睡觉了，没有任何对睡眠的恐惧。我什至不尝试保持清醒。我越来越喜欢大蒜了，每天都会从哈勒姆寄来一箱大蒜给我。今晚范海辛博士要离开，因为他必须在阿姆斯特丹待一天。但我不需要被监视。我身体很好，可以一个人呆着。

Thank God for Mother’s sake, and dear Arthur’s, and for all our friends who have been so kind! I shall not even feel the change, for last night Dr. Van Helsing slept in his chair a lot of the time. I found him asleep twice when I awoke. But I did not fear to go to sleep again, although the boughs or bats or something flapped almost angrily against the window panes.
感谢上帝，为了母亲、亲爱的亚瑟，为了我们所有如此友善的朋友！我什至感觉不到这种变化，因为昨晚范海辛博士大部分时间都睡在椅子上。当我醒来时，我发现他睡着了两次。但我并不害怕再次入睡，尽管树枝、蝙蝠或其他东西几乎愤怒地拍打着窗玻璃。

THE PALL MALL GAZETTE 18 September.
蓓尔美尔公报 9 月 18 日。

THE ESCAPED WOLF PERILOUS ADVENTURE OF OUR INTERVIEWER
采访者的逃狼冒险

INTERVIEW WITH THE KEEPER IN THE ZOOLOGICAL GARDENS
采访动物园的饲养员

After many inquiries and almost as many refusals, and perpetually using the words ‘PALL MALL GAZETTE’ as a sort of talisman, I managed to find the keeper of the section of the Zoological Gardens in which the wolf department is included. Thomas Bilder lives in one of the cottages in the enclosure behind the elephant house, and was just sitting down to his tea when I found him. Thomas and his wife are hospitable folk, elderly, and without children, and if the specimen I enjoyed of their hospitality be of the average kind, their lives must be pretty comfortable. The keeper would not enter on what he called business until the supper was over, and we were all satisfied. Then when the table was cleared, and he had lit his pipe, he said,
经过多次询问和几乎同样多次的拒绝，并不断地使用“PALL MALL GAZETTE”这个词作为一种护身符，我终于找到了动物园狼部门所在区域的管理员。托马斯·比尔德 (Thomas Bilder) 住在大象屋后面围栏内的一间小屋里，当我找到他时，他正坐下来喝茶。托马斯和他的妻子是热情好客的人，年事已高，没有孩子，如果我享受到的他们的热情好客是一般的，那么他们的生活一定相当舒适。直到晚饭结束，我们都心满意足之后，管理员才会开始做他所谓的生意。然后，当桌子被清理干净，他点燃烟斗时，他说：

‘Now, Sir, you can go on and arsk me what you want. You’ll excoose me refoosin’ to talk of perfeshunal subjucts afore meals. I gives the wolves and the jackals and the hyenas in all our section their tea afore I begins to arsk them questions.’
‘现在，先生，你可以继续问我你想要什么。你会让我在饭前不再谈论个人的话题。在我开始问他们问题之前，我先给我们所有区域的狼、豺狼和鬣狗喝茶。

‘How do you mean, ask them questions?’ I queried, wishful to get him into a talkative humor.
“你问他们问题是什么意思？”我问道，希望让他变得健谈幽默。

‘‘Ittin’ of them over the ‘ead with a pole is one way. Scratchin’ of their ears in another, when gents as is flush wants a bit of a show-orf to their gals. I don’t so much mind the fust, the ‘ittin of the pole part afore I chucks in their dinner, but I waits till they’ve ‘ad their sherry and kawffee, so to speak, afore I tries on with the ear scratchin’. Mind you,’ he added philosophically, ‘there’s a deal of the same nature in us as in them theer animiles. Here’s you a-comin’ and arskin’ of me questions about my business, and I that grump-like that only for your bloomin’ ‘arf-quid I’d ‘a’ seen you blowed fust ‘fore I’d answer. Not even when you arsked me sarcastic like if I’d like you to arsk the Superintendent if you might arsk me questions. Without offence did I tell yer to go to ‘ell?’
一种方法是用一根杆子把它们放在头上。当脸色红润的男士们想要向他们的女士们炫耀一番时，他们就会抓耳挠腮。我不太介意在我把晚餐扔进他们的晚餐之前，我不太介意杆子的第一部分，但我会等到他们喝完雪利酒和卡瓦菲，可以这么说，然后在我抓耳挠腮地尝试之前'。请注意，”他哲学地补充道，“我们身上有很多与动物相似的性质。你来了，问我有关我生意的问题，我脾气暴躁，只是为了你的“arf-quid”，在我回答之前，我看到你大发雷霆。即使你讽刺地问我，就像我希望你问总监，如果你可以问我问题一样。我没有冒犯你的意思告诉你去“呃？”

‘You did.’
“你做到了。”

‘An’ when you said you’d report me for usin’ obscene language that was ‘ittin’ me over the ‘ead. But the ‘arf-quid made that all right. I weren’t a-goin’ to fight, so I waited for the food, and did with my ‘owl as the wolves and lions and tigers does. But, lor’ love yer ‘art, now that the old ‘ooman has stuck a chunk of her tea-cake in me, an’ rinsed me out with her bloomin’ old teapot, and I’ve lit hup, you may scratch my ears for all you’re worth, and won’t even get a growl out of me. Drive along with your questions. I know what yer a-comin’ at, that ‘ere escaped wolf.’
当你说要举报我使用淫秽语言时，那句话就在我的开头。但“arf-quid”让这一切变得美好。我不想打架，所以我等待食物，然后像狼、狮子和老虎一样对待我的猫头鹰。但是，老天啊，爱你的艺术，既然老阿曼把一大块茶饼塞到了我身上，并用她那花花绿绿的旧茶壶把我冲洗干净，我已经点燃了，你可能会刮伤我的你的一切价值都竖起耳朵，甚至听不到我的咆哮。带着你的问题一起开车。我知道你要做什么，那只“狼已经逃走了。”

‘Exactly. I want you to give me your view of it. Just tell me how it happened, and when I know the facts I’ll get you to say what you consider was the cause of it, and how you think the whole affair will end.’
'确切地。我希望你能告诉我你对此的看法。只要告诉我事情是如何发生的，当我了解事实时，我会让你说出你认为事情的原因是什么，以及你认为整个事件将如何结束。

‘All right, guv’nor. This ‘ere is about the ‘ole story. That‘ere wolf what we called Bersicker was one of three gray ones that came from Norway to Jamrach’s, which we bought off him four years ago. He was a nice well-behaved wolf, that never gave no trouble to talk of. I’m more surprised at ‘im for wantin’ to get out nor any other animile in the place. But, there, you can’t trust wolves no more nor women.’
“好吧，长官。”这是关于“旧故事”的。那只狼，我们称之为 Bersicker，是从挪威来到贾姆拉赫家的三只灰狼之一，我们四年前从他那里买下了它。他是一只乖巧的狼，说话从来不会惹麻烦。我更惊讶的是“我想要出去”，也不是这个地方的任何其他动物。但是，在那里，你不能再相信狼，也不能相信女人。”

‘Don’t you mind him, Sir!’ broke in Mrs. Tom, with a cheery laugh. ‘‘E’s got mindin’ the animiles so long that blest if he ain’t like a old wolf ‘isself! But there ain’t no ‘arm in ‘im.’
“您别介意他，先生！”汤姆夫人带着愉快的笑声插话道。 “他已经关注动物这么久了，如果他自己不像一头老狼就好了！”但“我”里并没有“手臂”。

‘Well, Sir, it was about two hours after feedin’ yesterday when I first hear my disturbance. I was makin’ up a litter in the monkey house for a young puma which is ill. But when I heard the yelpin’ and ‘owlin’ I kem away straight. There was Bersicker a-tearin’ like a mad thing at the bars as if he wanted to get out. There wasn’t much people about that day, and close at hand was only one man, a tall, thin chap, with a ‘ook nose and a pointed beard, with a few white hairs runnin’ through it. He had a ‘ard, cold look and red eyes, and I took a sort of mislike to him, for it seemed as if it was ‘im as they was hirritated at. He ‘ad white kid gloves on ‘is ‘ands, and he pointed out the animiles to me and says, ‘Keeper, these wolves seem upset at something.’
“嗯，先生，昨天我第一次听到我的不安是在喂食后大约两个小时。”我正在猴舍里为一只生病的小美洲狮准备垃圾。但当我听到“猫头鹰”和“猫头鹰”的叫声时，我立刻就走开了。酒吧里有狂战士疯狂地撕扯着，好像他想离开。那天人不多，身边只有一个人，一个高高瘦瘦的小伙子，鹰钩鼻，尖胡子，有几根白发。他表情冷酷，眼睛红红，我对他有一种厌恶，因为他们似乎对他感到恼火。他“戴上白羊皮手套”，然后向我指出这些动物并说，“守门员，这些狼似乎对某些事情感到不安。”

‘‘Maybe it’s you,’ says I, for I did not like the airs as he give ‘isself. He didn’t get angry, as I ‘oped he would, but he smiled a kind of insolent smile, with a mouth full of white, sharp teeth. ‘Oh no, they wouldn’t like me,’ ‘e says.
“也许是你，”我说，因为我不喜欢他表现出的架势。他并没有像我所说的那样生气，但他微笑着，露出一种傲慢的笑容，嘴里长满了又白又锋利的牙齿。 “哦，不，他们不会喜欢我，”他说。

‘ ‘Ow yes, they would,’ says I, a-imitatin’of him.‘They always like a bone or two to clean their teeth on about tea time, which you ‘as a bagful.’
“哦，是的，他们会的，”我模仿他说，“他们总是喜欢在下午茶时间用一两根骨头来清洁牙齿，而你‘把它当作一袋’。”

‘Well, it was a odd thing, but when the animiles see us a-talkin’ they lay down, and when I went over to Bersicker he let me stroke his ears same as ever. That there man kem over, and blessed but if he didn’t put in his hand and stroke the old wolf’s ears too!
“嗯，这是一件奇怪的事情，但是当动物们看到我们说话时，他们就躺了下来，当我走向贝尔西克时，他让我像以前一样抚摸他的耳朵。那个人过来了，他很幸运，但如果他没有把手放在老狼的耳朵上的话！

‘‘Tyke care,’ says I. ‘Bersicker is quick.’
“泰克关心，”我说，“狂战士很快。”

‘‘Never mind,’ he says. I’m used to ‘em!’
“没关系，”他说。我已经习惯了“他们！”

‘‘Are you in the business yourself?’ I says, tyking off my ‘at, for a man what trades in wolves, anceterer, is a good friend to keepers.
“你自己也从事这个行业吗？”我脱口而出，说道，对于一个从事狼贸易的人来说，祖先是饲养员的好朋友。

‘‘Nom’ says he, ‘not exactly in the business, but I ‘ave made pets of several.’ and with that he lifts his ‘at as perlite as a lord, and walks away. Old Bersicker kep’ a-lookin’ arter ‘im till ‘e was out of sight, and then went and lay down in a corner and wouldn’t come hout the ‘ole hevening. Well, larst night, so soon as the moon was hup, the wolves here all began a-‘owling. There warn’t nothing for them to ‘owl at. There warn’t no one near, except some one that was evidently a-callin’ a dog somewheres out back of the gardings in the Park road. Once or twice I went out to see that all was right, and it was, and then the ‘owling stopped. Just before twelve o’clock I just took a look round afore turnin’ in, an’, bust me, but when I kem opposite to old Bersicker’s cage I see the rails broken and twisted about and the cage empty. And that’s all I know for certing.’
“诺姆，”他说，“不完全是这个行业，但我已经养了好几个宠物了。”说完，他举起他的“珍珠岩”，就像一位领主一样，然后走开了。老狂战士一直注视着他，直到他消失在视线之外，然后走到角落里躺下，直到晚上才回来。嗯，昨晚，月亮一升起，这里的狼就开始——“猫头鹰”地叫起来。没有什么可以让他们“猫头鹰”的。附近没有人，除了有人显然在公园路花园后面的某个地方喊狗。有一两次我出去看看一切都好，确实如此，然后猫头鹰就停止了。就在十二点之前，我在转身之前环顾四周，然后把我撞倒了，但是当我看到老贝尔西克的笼子对面时，我看到栏杆坏了，扭曲了，笼子空了。这就是我所知道的所有证明。

‘Did any one else see anything?’
“还有其他人看到什么吗？”

‘One of our gard‘ners was a-comin’ ‘ome about that time from a ‘armony, when he sees a big gray dog comin’ out through the garding ‘edges. At least, so he says, but I don’t give much for it myself, for if he did ‘e never said a word about it to his missis when ‘e got ‘ome, and it was only after the escape of the wolf was made known, and we had been up all night a-huntin’ of the Park for Bersicker, that he remembered seein’ anything. My own belief was that the ‘armony ‘ad got into his ‘ead.’
“我们的一个园丁大约在那时从军队回来，当时他看到一只大灰狗从园丁的边缘走出来。至少，他是这么说的，但我自己并没有为此付出太多，因为即使他这样做了，当他回来时，他也从未对他的小姐说过任何一句话，而且只是在狼逃跑之后这件事被人知道了，我们整夜没睡，在公园里寻找贝尔西克，他记得看到过什么。我个人认为，“军队”广告进入了他的“头脑”。

‘Now, Mr. Bilder, can you account in any way for the escape of the wolf?’
“现在，比尔德先生，你能解释一下狼逃跑的原因吗？”

‘Well, Sir,’ he said, with a suspicious sort of modesty, ‘I think I can, but I don’t know as ‘ow you’d be satisfied with the theory.’
“好吧，先生，”他带着一种可疑的谦虚说道，“我想我可以，但我不知道‘你对这个理论是否满意’。”

‘Certainly I shall. If a man like you, who knows the animals from experience, can’t hazard a good guess at any rate, who is even to try?’
“我当然会的。如果像你这样从经验中了解动物的人无论如何都不能冒险做出好的猜测，那么谁会去尝试呢？

‘Well then, Sir, I accounts for it this way. It seems to me that ‘ere wolf escaped—simply because he wanted to get out.’
“那么，先生，我是这样解释的。在我看来，“狼逃走了——只是因为他想出去。”

From the hearty way that both Thomas and his wife laughed at the joke I could see that it had done service before, and that the whole explanation was simply an elaborate sell. I couldn’t cope in badinage with the worthy Thomas, but I thought I knew a surer way to his heart, so I said, ‘Now, Mr. Bilder, we’ll consider that first half-sovereign worked off, and this brother of his is waiting to be claimed when you’ve told me what you think will happen.’
从托马斯和他的妻子听到这个笑话时开怀大笑的样子，我可以看出它以前已经发挥过作用，而整个解释只是精心设计的推销。我无法应付可敬的托马斯的戏谑，但我想我知道更可靠的方式来打动他的心，所以我说，“现在，比尔德先生，我们将考虑第一个半主权的工作已经完成，而这位兄弟当你告诉我你认为会发生什么时，他的一切就等着被认领。

‘Right y‘are, Sir,’ he said briskly. ‘Ye‘ll excoose me, I know, for a-chaffin’ of ye, but the old woman her winked at me, which was as much as telling me to go on.’
“是的，先生，”他轻快地说。 “我知道，你们会因为你们的烦恼而原谅我，但是老妇人对我眨了眨眼，这等于是在告诉我继续说下去。”

‘Well, I never!’ said the old lady.
“嗯，我从来没有！”老太太说。

‘My opinion is this. That ‘ere wolf is a‘idin’ of, somewheres. The gard‘ner wot didn’t remember said he was a-gallopin’ northward faster than a horse could go, but I don’t believe him, for, yer see, Sir, wolves don’t gallop no more nor dogs does, they not bein’ built that way. Wolves is fine things in a storybook, and I dessay when they gets in packs and does be chivyin’ somethin’ that’s more afeared than they is they can make a devil of a noise and chop it up, whatever it is. But, Lor’ bless you, in real life a wolf is only a low creature, not half so clever or bold as a good dog, and not half a quarter so much fight in ‘im. This one ain’t been used to fightin’ or even to providin’ for hisself, and more like he’s somewhere round the Park a’hidin’ an’ a’shiverin’ of, and if he thinks at all, wonderin’ where he is to get his breakfast from. Or maybe he’s got down some area and is in a coal cellar. My eye, won’t some cook get a rum start when she sees his green eyes a-shinin’ at her out of the dark! If he can’t get food he’s bound to look for it, and mayhap he may chance to light on a butcher’s shop in time. If he doesn’t, and some nursemaid goes out walkin’ or orf with a soldier, leavin’ of the hinfant in the perambulator—well, then I shouldn’t be surprised if the census is one babby the less. That’s all.’
‘我的意见是这样的。那只狼是某个地方的“idin”。园丁不记得说过他向北奔驰的速度比马跑得还要快，但我不相信他，因为，你瞧，先生，狼不再驰骋，狗也不再驰骋，它们不是那样建造的。狼在故事书中是美好的事物，我想说的是，当它们成群结队并确实比它们更害怕的东西时，它们可以发出恶魔般的噪音并将其砍碎，无论是什么。但是，上帝保佑你，在现实生活中，狼只是一种低等生物，不像好狗那么聪明或勇敢，而且它的战斗力也不及好狗的四分之一。这个人不习惯战斗，甚至不习惯为自己提供食物，而更像是他在公园周围的某个地方“躲藏”和“颤抖”，如果他有任何想法，想知道他在哪里去拿他的早餐。或者他可能已经到了某个地区的煤窖里。我的天哪，当某个厨师看到他的绿眼睛在黑暗中向她闪烁时，她不会开始喝朗姆酒吗？如果他买不到食物，他就必须去寻找食物，也许他有机会及时发现一家肉店。如果他不这样做，某个保姆和一名士兵一起出去散步，把婴儿留在婴儿车里——那么，如果人口普查中少了一个婴儿，我就不应该感到惊讶。就这样。'

I was handing him the half-sovereign, when something came bobbing up against the window, and Mr. Bilder’s face doubled its natural length with surprise.
我正把半主权交给他，这时有什么东西在窗户上摇晃着，比尔德先生的脸惊讶地拉长了一倍。

‘God bless me!’ he said. ‘If there ain’t old Bersicker come back by ‘isself!’
“上帝保佑我！”他说。 “要不是老狂战士自己回来！”

He went to the door and opened it, a most unnecessary proceeding it seemed to me. I have always thought that a wild animal never looks so well as when some obstacle of pronounced durability is between us. A personal experience has intensified rather than diminished that idea.
他走到门口，打开了门，在我看来，这是最不必要的举动。我一直认为，当我们之间存在明显耐用的障碍时，野生动物看起来才那么好。个人经历增强了而不是削弱了这个想法。

After all, however, there is nothing like custom, for neither Bilder nor his wife thought any more of the wolf than I should of a dog. The animal itself was a peaceful and well-behaved as that father of all picture-wolves, Red Riding Hood’s quondam friend, whilst moving her confidence in masquerade.
然而，毕竟，没有什么比习惯更重要的了，因为比尔德和他的妻子对狼的看法都不像我对狗的看法一样。这只动物本身是一个和平而乖巧的动物，就像所有图片中的狼之父、小红帽的昔日朋友一样，同时也激发了她对化装舞会的信心。

The whole scene was a unutterable mixture of comedy and pathos. The wicked wolf that for a half a day had paralyzed London and set all the children in town shivering in their shoes, was there in a sort of penitent mood, and was received and petted like a sort of vulpine prodigal son. Old Bilder examined him all over with most tender solicitude, and when he had finished with his penitent said,
整个场景是一种难以形容的喜剧和悲伤的混合体。那只恶狼半天之内使伦敦陷入瘫痪，让城里所有的孩子都在鞋子里瑟瑟发抖，它却带着一种忏悔的心情，像狐狸一样的浪子一样受到接待和宠爱。老彼尔德以最温柔的关怀把他全身检查一遍，当他检查完他的悔罪者后说道：

‘There, I knew the poor old chap would get into some kind of trouble. Didn’t I say it all along? Here’s his head all cut and full of broken glass. ‘E’s been a-gettin’ over some bloomin’ wall or other. It’s a shyme that people are allowed to top their walls with broken bottles. This ‘ere’s what comes of it. Come along, Bersicker.’
“在那里，我知道这个可怜的老家伙会遇到某种麻烦。我不是一直都在说吗？这是他的头部，全被割伤，里面布满了碎玻璃。 ‘E’已经越过了一些盛开的墙或其他东西。让人感到羞耻的是，人们被允许用破瓶子堆在墙上。这就是它的结果。来吧，狂战士。

He took the wolf and locked him up in a cage, with a piece of meat that satisfied, in quantity at any rate, the elementary conditions of the fatted calf, and went off to report.
他把狼关在笼子里，并给了一块肉，至少在数量上满足了肥牛犊的基本条件，然后就去报告了。

I came off too, to report the only exclusive information that is given today regarding the strange escapade at the Zoo.
我也离开了，报告今天提供的有关动物园奇怪事件的唯一独家信息。

DR. SEWARD’S DIARY 17 September.—I was engaged after dinner in my study posting up my books, which, through press of other work and the many visits to Lucy, had fallen sadly into arrear. Suddenly the door was burst open, and in rushed my patient, with his face distorted with passion. I was thunderstruck, for such a thing as a patient getting of his own accord into the Superintendent’s study is almost unknown.
博士。苏厄德的日记 9 月 17 日——晚饭后，我在书房里张贴我的书，由于其他工作的压力和对露西的多次拜访，这些书已经不幸地被拖欠了。突然，门被撞开，我的病人冲了进来，他的脸因激情而扭曲。我惊呆了，因为病人自愿进入院长的研究室这样的事情几乎是闻所未闻的。

Without an instant’s notice he made straight at me. He had a dinner knife in his hand, and as I saw he was dangerous, I tried to keep the table between us. He was too quick and too strong for me, however, for before I could get my balance he had struck at me and cut my left wrist rather severely.
他没有立刻注意到，就径直朝我冲来。他手里拿着一把餐刀，当我看到他很危险时，我试图把桌子挡在我们之间。然而，他对我来说太快、太强壮了，因为在我能够保持平衡之前，他就向我发起攻击，严重割伤了我的左手腕。

Before he could strike again, however, I got in my right hand and he was sprawling on his back on the floor. My wrist bled freely, and quite a little pool trickled on to the carpet. I saw that my friend was not intent on further effort, and occupied myself binding up my wrist, keeping a wary eye on the prostrate figure all the time. When the attendants rushed in, and we turned our attention to him, his employment positively sickened me. He was lying on his belly on the floor licking up, like a dog, the blood which had fallen from my wounded wrist. He was easily secured, and to my surprise, went with the attendants quite placidly, simply repeating over and over again, ‘The blood is the life! The blood is the life!’
然而，在他再次攻击之前，我抓住了我的右手，他仰面躺在地板上。我的手腕流血了，有不少水滴到了地毯上。我见朋友没有继续努力的意思，忙着裹紧手腕，时刻警惕地注视着那个倒下的身影。当服务员冲进来，我们把注意力转向他时，他的工作让我感到恶心。他趴在地板上，像狗一样舔着我受伤的手腕上流下的血。他很容易就被抓住了，令我惊讶的是，他非常平静地和随从一起走，只是一遍又一遍地重复：“血就是生命！”血液就是生命！”

I cannot afford to lose blood just at present. I have lost too much of late for my physical good, and then the prolonged strain of Lucy’s illness and its horrible phases is telling on me. I am over excited and weary, and I need rest, rest, rest. Happily Van Helsing has not summoned me, so I need not forego my sleep. Tonight I could not well do without it.
我目前无法承受失血的后果。我最近失去了太多的身体健康，而露西疾病的长期压力及其可怕的阶段正在对我产生影响。我太兴奋太累了，我需要休息，休息，休息。幸好范海辛没有召唤我，所以我不必放弃睡眠。今晚我不能没有它。

TELEGRAM, VAN HELSING, ANTWERP, TO SEWARD, CARFAX
电报，范赫尔辛，安特卫普，至苏厄德，卡法克斯

(Sent to Carfax, Sussex, as no county given, delivered late by twenty-two hours.)
（发送到苏塞克斯的卡法克斯，由于没有指定县，所以晚了二十二小时送达。）

17 September.—Do not fail to be at Hilllingham tonight. If not watching all the time, frequently visit and see that flowers are as placed, very important, do not fail. Shall be with you as soon as possible after arrival.
9 月 17 日——今晚不要错过希灵厄姆。如果不是一直在看，经常去看看花是否摆放整齐，非常重要，不要失败。抵达后将尽快与您联系。

DR. SEWARD’S DIARY 18 September.—Just off train to London. The arrival of Van Helsing’s telegram filled me with dismay. A whole night lost, and I know by bitter experience what may happen in a night. Of course it is possible that all may be well, but what may have happened? Surely there is some horrible doom hanging over us that every possible accident should thwart us in all we try to do. I shall take this cylinder with me, and then I can complete my entry on Lucy’s phonograph.
博士。苏厄德的日记，9 月 18 日——刚下开往伦敦的火车。范海辛的电报的到来让我感到沮丧。失去了一整夜，我通过痛苦的经历知道一夜会发生什么。当然，也有可能一切都好，但可能发生了什么？肯定有一些可怕的厄运笼罩着我们，每一次可能的事故都会阻碍我们所做的一切。我将随身携带这个圆筒，然后我就可以在露西的留声机上完成我的输入。

MEMORANDUM LEFT BY LUCY WESTENRA
露西·韦斯特纳拉留下的备忘录

17 September, Night.—I write this and leave it to be seen, so that no one may by any chance get into trouble through me. This is an exact record of what took place tonight. I feel I am dying of weakness, and have barely strength to write, but it must be done if I die in the doing.
9 月 17 日，晚上——我写下这篇文章并留待人们查看，以免任何人因我而陷入麻烦。这是今晚发生的事情的准确记录。我觉得我快要软弱无力了，几乎没有力气去写，但如果我死在了写作中，就必须写下去。

I went to bed as usual, taking care that the flowers were placed as Dr. Van Helsing directed, and soon fell asleep.
我像往常一样上床睡觉，按照范海辛医生的指示把花摆放好，很快就睡着了。

I was waked by the flapping at the window, which had begun after that sleep-walking on the cliff at Whitby when Mina saved me, and which now I know so well. I was not afraid, but I did wish that Dr. Seward was in the next room, as Dr. Van Helsing said he would be, so that I might have called him. I tried to sleep, but I could not. Then there came to me the old fear of sleep, and I determined to keep awake. Perversely sleep would try to come then when I did not want it. So, as I feared to be alone, I opened my door and called out. ‘Is there anybody there?’ There was no answer. I was afraid to wake mother, and so closed my door again. Then outside in the shrubbery I heard a sort of howl like a dog’s, but more fierce and deeper. I went to the window and looked out, but could see nothing, except a big bat, which had evidently been buffeting its wings against the window. So I went back to bed again, but determined not to go to sleep. Presently the door opened, and mother looked in. Seeing by my moving that I was not asleep, she came in and sat by me. She said to me even more sweetly and softly than her wont,
我是被窗户的拍打声吵醒的，那是在米娜救我时在惠特比悬崖上梦游之后开始的，现在我对这件事了如指掌。我并不害怕，但我确实希望苏厄德医生在隔壁房间，正如范海辛医生说的那样，这样我就可以打电话给他。我想睡觉，但睡不着。然后我又想起了过去对睡眠的恐惧，我决定保持清醒。当我不想要的时候，睡眠就会反常地出现。因此，由于我害怕独自一人，我打开门并大声喊道。 “有人吗？” 没有人回答。我怕吵醒妈妈，又关上了门。然后，我听到外面的灌木丛里传来一种类似狗的嚎叫声，但更猛烈、更深沉。我走到窗前向外看去，但什么也看不见，除了一只大蝙蝠，显然它正在用翅膀拍打着窗户。于是我又回到床上，但决定不睡觉。不一会儿，门开了，妈妈朝里望去。她看我的动作，发现我没有睡着，就进来坐在我旁边。她对我说，比平时更甜蜜、更轻柔，

‘I was uneasy about you, darling, and came in to see that you were all right.’
“亲爱的，我对你感到不安，所以进来看看你是否安然无恙。”

I feared she might catch cold sitting there, and asked her to come in and sleep with me, so she came into bed, and lay down beside me. She did not take off her dressing gown, for she said she would only stay a while and then go back to her own bed. As she lay there in my arms, and I in hers the flapping and buffeting came to the window again. She was startled and a little frightened, and cried out, ‘What is that?’
我怕她坐在那里着凉，就让她进来和我一起睡，她就上了床，躺在我身边。她没有脱掉睡衣，因为她说她只会停留一会儿，然后就回到自己的床上。当她躺在我的怀里，我躺在她的怀里时，窗户上又传来了拍打声和拍打声。她吃了一惊，有点害怕，喊道：“那是什么？”

I tried to pacify her, and at last succeeded, and she lay quiet. But I could hear her poor dear heart still beating terribly. After a while there was the howl again out in the shrubbery, and shortly after there was a crash at the window, and a lot of broken glass was hurled on the floor. The window blind blew back with the wind that rushed in, and in the aperture of the broken panes there was the head of a great, gaunt gray wolf.
我试图安抚她，终于成功了，她安静地躺着。但我能听到她可怜的亲爱的心仍在剧烈地跳动。过了一会儿，灌木丛中又传来了嚎叫声，不久之后，窗户传来撞击声，大量碎玻璃被扔在地板上。百叶窗被冲进来的风吹得向后吹，破碎的窗玻璃缝隙里藏着一头瘦削的灰狼头。

Mother cried out in a fright, and struggled up into a sitting posture, and clutched wildly at anything that would help her. Amongst other things, she clutched the wreath of flowers that Dr. Van Helsing insisted on my wearing round my neck, and tore it away from me. For a second or two she sat up, pointing at the wolf, and there was a strange and horrible gurgling in her throat. Then she fell over, as if struck with lightning, and her head hit my forehead and made me dizzy for a moment or two.
母亲吓得大叫一声，挣扎着坐起身来，疯狂地抓着任何能帮到她的东西。除此之外，她还抓着范海辛医生坚持要我戴在脖子上的花环，然后把它从我身上扯了下来。一两秒钟，她坐了起来，指着狼，喉咙里发出奇怪而可怕的咕噜声。然后她像被闪电击中一样摔倒了，她的头撞到了我的额头上，让我头晕了一两分钟。

The room and all round seemed to spin round. I kept my eyes fixed on the window, but the wolf drew his head back, and a whole myriad of little specks seems to come blowing in through the broken window, and wheeling and circling round like the pillar of dust that travellers describe when there is a simoon in the desert. I tried to stir, but there was some spell upon me, and dear Mother’s poor body, which seemed to grow cold already, for her dear heart had ceased to beat, weighed me down, and I remembered no more for a while.
房间和周围的一切似乎都在旋转。我的眼睛一直盯着窗户，但狼把头向后缩了回来，无数的小斑点似乎从破碎的窗户吹了进来，旋转着，盘旋着，就像旅行者描述的灰尘柱一样。沙漠中的西蒙。我试图动一动，但我身上有一种魔力，而亲爱的母亲可怜的身体似乎已经变冷了，因为她亲爱的心脏已经停止跳动，这让我感到沉重，有一段时间我不再记得了。

The time did not seem long, but very, very awful, till I recovered consciousness again. Somewhere near, a passing bell was tolling. The dogs all round the neighbourhood were howling, and in our shrubbery, seemingly just outside, a nightingale was singing. I was dazed and stupid with pain and terror and weakness, but the sound of the nightingale seemed like the voice of my dead mother come back to comfort me. The sounds seemed to have awakened the maids, too, for I could hear their bare feet pattering outside my door. I called to them, and they came in, and when they saw what had happened, and what it was that lay over me on the bed, they screamed out. The wind rushed in through the broken window, and the door slammed to. They lifted off the body of my dear mother, and laid her, covered up with a sheet, on the bed after I had got up. They were all so frightened and nervous that I directed them to go to the dining room and each have a glass of wine. The door flew open for an instant and closed again. The maids shrieked, and then went in a body to the dining room, and I laid what flowers I had on my dear mother’s breast. When they were there I remembered what Dr. Van Helsing had told me, but I didn’t like to remove them, and besides, I would have some of the servants to sit up with me now. I was surprised that the maids did not come back. I called them, but got no answer, so I went to the dining room to look for them.
时间似乎不长，但非常非常可怕，直到我再次恢复知觉。附近的某个地方，传来了路过的钟声。附近的狗都在嚎叫，在我们的灌木丛中，似乎就在外面，一只夜莺在唱歌。痛苦、恐惧和虚弱让我感到茫然、愚蠢，但夜莺的声音似乎是我死去的母亲回来安慰我的声音。这些声音似乎也惊醒了女仆们，因为我能听到她们光着脚在门外啪嗒啪嗒地响。我叫他们，他们进来了，当他们看到发生了什么事，以及床上压在我身上的东西时，他们尖叫起来。风从破碎的窗户吹进来，门砰地关上。我起床后，他们把我亲爱的母亲的尸体抬起来，盖上床单放在床上。他们都非常害怕和紧张，我引导他们去餐厅，每人喝了一杯酒。门猛地打开了一会儿，又关上了。女仆们尖叫着，然后集体走进餐厅，我把手里的花放在亲爱的母亲的胸前。当他们在那里时，我想起了范海辛医生告诉我的话，但我不想把他们移走，而且，现在我会让一些仆人和我坐在一起。令我惊讶的是，女仆们还没有回来。我给他们打电话，但无人接听，于是我去餐厅寻找他们。

My heart sank when I saw what had happened. They all four lay helpless on the floor, breathing heavily. The decanter of sherry was on the table half full, but there was a queer, acrid smell about. I was suspicious, and examined the decanter. It smelt of laudanum, and looking on the sideboard, I found that the bottle which Mother’s doctor uses for her—oh! did use—was empty. What am I to do? What am I to do? I am back in the room with Mother. I cannot leave her, and I am alone, save for the sleeping servants, whom some one has drugged. Alone with the dead! I dare not go out, for I can hear the low howl of the wolf through the broken window.
当我看到发生的事情时，我的心沉了下去。四人无助地躺在地板上，呼吸粗重。桌上的一瓶雪利酒已经半满，但周围却有一股奇怪的、刺鼻的气味。我很怀疑，检查了醒酒器。闻起来有鸦片酊的味道，我在餐具柜上一看，发现了母亲的医生给她用的瓶子——哦！确实使用过——是空的。我是什么做的？我是什么做的？我和妈妈一起回到房间。我不能离开她，我独自一人，除了熟睡的仆人，有人给他们下了药。与死者单独相处！我不敢出去，因为透过破碎的窗户我能听到狼低沉的嚎叫声。

The air seems full of specks, floating and circling in the draught from the window, and the lights burn blue and dim. What am I to do? God shield me from harm this night! I shall hide this paper in my breast, where they shall find it when they come to lay me out. My dear mother gone! It is time that I go too. Goodbye, dear Arthur, if I should not survive this night. God keep you, dear, and God help me!
空气中似乎充满了斑点，在窗外的气流中漂浮、盘旋，灯光呈蓝色且昏暗。我是什么做的？愿上帝保佑我今晚免受伤害！我会把这张纸藏在我的怀里，当他们来把我放下时，他们会在那里找到它。我亲爱的妈妈走了！我也到了该走的时候了。再见，亲爱的亚瑟，如果我今晚活不下去的话。上帝保佑你，亲爱的，上帝帮助我！

Chapter 12
第12章

DR. SEWARD’S DIARY
博士。苏厄德的日记

18 September.—I drove at once to Hillingham and arrived early. Keeping my cab at the gate, I went up the avenue alone. I knocked gently and rang as quietly as possible, for I feared to disturb Lucy or her mother, and hoped to only bring a servant to the door. After a while, finding no response, I knocked and rang again, still no answer. I cursed the laziness of the servants that they should lie abed at such an hour, for it was now ten o’clock, and so rang and knocked again, but more impatiently, but still without response. Hitherto I had blamed only the servants, but now a terrible fear began to assail me. Was this desolation but another link in the chain of doom which seemed drawing tight round us? Was it indeed a house of death to which I had come, too late? I know that minutes, even seconds of delay, might mean hours of danger to Lucy, if she had had again one of those frightful relapses, and I went round the house to try if I could find by chance an entry anywhere.
9 月 18 日——我立即开车前往希灵厄姆，并提前到达。我把出租车停在门口，独自沿着大道走去。我轻轻地敲了敲门，并尽可能小声地按响了铃，因为我担心打扰露西或她的母亲，并希望只带一个仆人到门口。过了一会儿，没有反应，我又敲了又按，还是没有回应。我咒骂仆人们太懒了，他们竟然在这个时间躺在床上，因为现在已经十点了，所以我又敲了敲门，但更加不耐烦了，但仍然没有回应。到目前为止，我只责怪仆人，但现在一种可怕的恐惧开始袭击我。这种荒凉是否只是似乎紧紧围绕着我们的厄运之链中的另一个环节？我来得太晚了，这真的是一座死亡之屋吗？我知道，如果露西再次出现那种可怕的旧病，那么几分钟，甚至几秒钟的延误，对露西来说可能意味着几个小时的危险，我在房子里转了一圈，想看看是否能偶然找到一个入口。

I could find no means of ingress. Every window and door was fastened and locked, and I returned baffled to the porch. As I did so, I heard the rapid pit-pat of a swiftly driven horse’s feet. They stopped at the gate, and a few seconds later I met Van Helsing running up the avenue. When he saw me, he gasped out, ‘Then it was you, and just arrived. How is she? Are we too late? Did you not get my telegram?’
我找不到入口。每扇门窗都紧闭并锁上，我困惑地回到门廊。当我这么做的时候，我听到一匹疾驰的马蹄发出急促的踏击声。他们在门口停下来，几秒钟后我遇到了范海辛沿着大道跑来。当他看到我时，他气喘吁吁地说：“那就是你了，刚到。”她怎么样？我们太晚了吗？你没有收到我的电报吗？

I answered as quickly and coherently as I could that I had only got his telegram early in the morning, and had not a minute in coming here, and that I could not make any one in the house hear me. He paused and raised his hat as he said solemnly, ‘Then I fear we are too late. God’s will be done!’
我尽可能快速而连贯地回答说，我一大早才收到他的电报，还不到一分钟就到这里来了，而且我无法让屋子里的任何人听到我的声音。他顿了顿，举起帽子，严肃地说：“那么恐怕我们就太晚了。”上帝的旨意一定会实现！”

With his usual recuperative energy, he went on, ‘Come. If there be no way open to get in, we must make one. Time is all in all to us now.’
他以一贯的恢复力继续说道：“来吧。”如果没有办法进入，我们就必须开辟一条。现在时间对我们来说就是一切。

We went round to the back of the house, where there was a kitchen window. The Professor took a small surgical saw from his case, and handing it to me, pointed to the iron bars which guarded the window. I attacked them at once and had very soon cut through three of them. Then with a long, thin knife we pushed back the fastening of the sashes and opened the window. I helped the Professor in, and followed him. There was no one in the kitchen or in the servants’ rooms, which were close at hand. We tried all the rooms as we went along, and in the dining room, dimly lit by rays of light through the shutters, found four servant women lying on the floor. There was no need to think them dead, for their stertorous breathing and the acrid smell of laudanum in the room left no doubt as to their condition.
我们绕到房子的后面，那里有一扇厨房的窗户。教授从箱子里拿出一把小手术锯，递给我，指着守着窗户的铁栅栏。我立刻攻击他们，很快就斩断了其中三个。然后，我们用一把细长的刀把窗扇的扣子推开，打开了窗户。我把教授扶了进去，然后跟着他。近在咫尺的厨房和仆人的房间里都没有人。我们一路走遍了所有的房间，在餐厅里，百叶窗透进来的光线昏暗，发现四个女仆躺在地板上。没有必要认为他们已经死了，因为他们的喘息声和房间里鸦片的刺鼻气味使人对他们的状况毫无疑问。

Van Helsing and I looked at each other, and as we moved away he said, ‘We can attend to them later.’ Then we ascended to Lucy’s room. For an instant or two we paused at the door to listen, but there was no sound that we could hear. With white faces and trembling hands, we opened the door gently, and entered the room.
范海辛和我面面相觑，当我们离开时，他说：“我们稍后再去处理他们。”然后我们上了露西的房间。我们在门口停下来听了一两分钟，但听不到任何声音。我们脸色苍白，双手颤抖，轻轻地打开门，走进了房间。

How shall I describe what we saw? On the bed lay two women, Lucy and her mother. The latter lay farthest in, and she was covered with a white sheet, the edge of which had been blown back by the drought through the broken window, showing the drawn, white, face, with a look of terror fixed upon it. By her side lay Lucy, with face white and still more drawn. The flowers which had been round her neck we found upon her mother’s bosom, and her throat was bare, showing the two little wounds which we had noticed before, but looking horribly white and mangled. Without a word the Professor bent over the bed, his head almost touching poor Lucy’s breast. Then he gave a quick turn of his head, as of one who listens, and leaping to his feet, he cried out to me, ‘It is not yet too late! Quick! Quick! Bring the brandy!’
我该如何描述我们所看到的一切呢？床上躺着两个女人，露西和她的母亲。后者躺在最远的地方，她身上盖着一块白床单，由于干旱，床单的边缘被从破碎的窗户吹了回来，露出了那张憔悴的、苍白的脸，脸上带着恐惧的表情。她身边躺着露西，脸色苍白，更加憔悴。我们在她母亲的怀里发现了她脖子上绕着的花，她的喉咙裸露着，露出了我们之前注意到的两处小伤口，但看起来惨白且破损。教授一言不发地俯身在床上，他的头几乎碰到了可怜的露西的乳房。然后他像一个倾听者一样迅速转过头，跳了起来，对我喊道：“现在还不算太晚！”快的！快的！把白兰地拿来！

I flew downstairs and returned with it, taking care to smell and taste it, lest it, too, were drugged like the decanter of sherry which I found on the table. The maids were still breathing, but more restlessly, and I fancied that the narcotic was wearing off. I did not stay to make sure, but returned to Van Helsing. He rubbed the brandy, as on another occasion, on her lips and gums and on her wrists and the palms of her hands. He said to me, ‘I can do this, all that can be at the present. You go wake those maids. Flick them in the face with a wet towel, and flick them hard. Make them get heat and fire and a warm bath. This poor soul is nearly as cold as that beside her. She will need be heated before we can do anything more.’
我飞下楼，带着它回来，小心翼翼地闻着、尝着，以免它也像我在桌子上发现的那瓶雪利酒一样被下了药。女仆们还有呼吸，但更加不安，我想麻醉药的药效已经过去了。我没有留下来确认，而是回到了范海辛。他像上次一样，把白兰地擦在她的嘴唇、牙龈、手腕和手掌上。他对我说：‘我能做到这一点，目前能做到的一切。你去叫醒那些女仆吧。用湿毛巾轻拂脸上，用力轻拂。让他们得到热量、火和热水澡。这个可怜的灵魂几乎和她身边的那个灵魂一样冷漠。在我们做更多事情之前，她需要被加热。”

I went at once, and found little difficulty in waking three of the women. The fourth was only a young girl, and the drug had evidently affected her more strongly so I lifted her on the sofa and let her sleep.
我立刻去了，发现叫醒三个女人并不困难。第四个只是个年轻女孩，显然药物对她的影响更大，所以我把她抱到沙发上让她睡觉。

The others were dazed at first, but as remembrance came back to them they cried and sobbed in a hysterical manner. I was stern with them, however, and would not let them talk. I told them that one life was bad enough to lose, and if they delayed they would sacrifice Miss Lucy. So, sobbing and crying they went about their way, half clad as they were, and prepared fire and water. Fortunately, the kitchen and boiler fires were still alive, and there was no lack of hot water. We got a bath and carried Lucy out as she was and placed her in it. Whilst we were busy chafing her limbs there was a knock at the hall door. One of the maids ran off, hurried on some more clothes, and opened it. Then she returned and whispered to us that there was a gentleman who had come with a message from Mr. Holmwood. I bade her simply tell him that he must wait, for we could see no one now. She went away with the message, and, engrossed with our work, I clean forgot all about him.
其他人一开始还很茫然，但当他们回想起来时，他们歇斯底里地哭了起来。但我对他们态度很严厉，不让他们说话。我告诉他们，失去一条生命就已经够糟糕的了，如果他们拖延的话，他们就会牺牲露西小姐。于是，他们边哭边走，只穿了半身衣服，备好了火和水。幸运的是，厨房和锅炉的火还没有熄灭，也不缺乏热水。我们洗了个澡，把露西按原样抱了出来，放在里面。当我们忙着擦她的四肢时，大厅的门被敲响了。一名女仆跑开，赶紧穿上衣服，打开。然后她回来了，低声对我们说有一位绅士带来了霍姆伍德先生的口信。我吩咐她简单地告诉他，他必须等待，因为我们现在看不到任何人。她带着这条信息走了，而我全神贯注于我们的工作，完全忘记了他。

I never saw in all my experience the Professor work in such deadly earnest. I knew, as he knew, that it was a stand-up fight with death, and in a pause told him so. He answered me in a way that I did not understand, but with the sternest look that his face could wear.
在我的所有经历中，我从未见过教授如此认真地工作。我知道，就像他知道的那样，这是一场与死亡的对抗，我停顿了一下告诉他这一点。他用一种我听不懂的方式回答我，但他的表情却是极其严肃。

‘If that were all, I would stop here where we are now, and let her fade away into peace, for I see no light in life over her horizon.’ He went on with his work with, if possible, renewed and more frenzied vigour.
“如果仅此而已，我会停在我们现在所在的地方，让她消失在平静中，因为我在她的地平线上看不到任何生命之光。”如果可能的话，他继续他的工作，更新并更加疯狂活力。

Presently we both began to be conscious that the heat was beginning to be of some effect. Lucy’s heart beat a trifle more audibly to the stethoscope, and her lungs had a perceptible movement. Van Helsing’s face almost beamed, and as we lifted her from the bath and rolled her in a hot sheet to dry her he said to me, ‘The first gain is ours! Check to the King!’
不久我们俩都开始意识到炎热开始产生一些影响。露西的心跳声听诊器听得更清楚了，她的肺部也有明显的运动。范海辛的脸几乎露出笑容，当我们把她从浴缸里抱起来，用热床单将她卷起来擦干时，他对我说：“第一个收获是我们的！”向国王询问！

We took Lucy into another room, which had by now been prepared, and laid her in bed and forced a few drops of brandy down her throat. I noticed that Van Helsing tied a soft silk handkerchief round her throat. She was still unconscious, and was quite as bad as, if not worse than, we had ever seen her.
我们把露西带到另一个已经准备好的房间，把她放在床上，强迫她喝了几滴白兰地。我注意到范海辛在她的喉咙上系了一块柔软的丝绸手帕。她仍然昏迷不醒，情况与我们见过的她一样糟糕，甚至更糟。

Van Helsing called in one of the women, and told her to stay with her and not to take her eyes off her till we returned, and then beckoned me out of the room.
范海辛叫来了其中一名妇女，让她留在自己身边，在我们回来之前不要把目光从她身上移开，然后示意我离开房间。

‘We must consult as to what is to be done,’ he said as we descended the stairs. In the hall he opened the dining room door, and we passed in, he closing the door carefully behind him. The shutters had been opened, but the blinds were already down, with that obedience to the etiquette of death which the British woman of the lower classes always rigidly observes. The room was, therefore, dimly dark. It was, however, light enough for our purposes. Van Helsing’s sternness was somewhat relieved by a look of perplexity. He was evidently torturing his mind about something, so I waited for an instant, and he spoke.
“我们必须商量一下要做什么，”我们走下楼梯时他说道。到了大厅，他打开了餐厅的门，我们进去了，他小心翼翼地关上了身后的门。百叶窗已经打开，但百叶窗已经放下，这是英国下层妇女一贯严格遵守的死亡礼节。因此，房间里一片昏暗。然而，对于我们的目的来说，它已经足够轻了。范海辛的严肃因一脸的困惑而稍稍松了口气。他显然正在为某事折磨自己的思想，所以我等了一会儿，他说话了。

‘What are we to do now? Where are we to turn for help? We must have another transfusion of blood, and that soon, or that poor girl’s life won’t be worth an hour’s purchase. You are exhausted already. I am exhausted too. I fear to trust those women, even if they would have courage to submit. What are we to do for some one who will open his veins for her?’
‘我们现在该怎么办？我们到哪里寻求帮助？我们必须再次输血，而且要尽快，否则那个可怜女孩的生命就不值得用一个小时来换取。你已经筋疲力尽了。我也累坏了。我不敢相信那些女人，即使她们有勇气屈服。对于一个愿意为她敞开血管的人，我们该怎么做呢？

‘What’s the matter with me, anyhow?’
“我到底怎么了？”

The voice came from the sofa across the room, and its tones brought relief and joy to my heart, for they were those of Quincey Morris.
声音从房间另一头的沙发上传来，它的语气给我的心带来了宽慰和喜悦，因为那是昆西·莫里斯的语气。

Van Helsing started angrily at the first sound, but his face softened and a glad look came into his eyes as I cried out, ‘Quincey Morris!’ and rushed towards him with outstretched hands.
听到第一声声音，范海辛就生气了，但当我喊道“昆西·莫里斯！”并伸出双手冲向他时，他的脸色变得柔和起来，眼中闪现出高兴的神色。

‘What brought you here?’ I cried as our hands met.
“是什么风把你吹到这里来的？”当我们的双手相遇时，我喊道。

‘I guess Art is the cause.’
“我想艺术是原因。”

He handed me a telegram.—‘Have not heard from Seward for three days, and am terribly anxious. Cannot leave. Father still in same condition. Send me word how Lucy is. Do not delay.—Holmwood.’
他递给我一份电报。——‘已经三天没有苏厄德的消息了，我非常焦虑。不能离开。父亲仍处于同样的状态。请告诉我露西怎么样。不要拖延。——霍姆伍德。”

‘I think I came just in the nick of time. You know you have only to tell me what to do.’
“我想我来得正是时候。你知道你只需要告诉我该怎么做。

Van Helsing strode forward, and took his hand, looking him straight in the eyes as he said, ‘A brave man’s blood is the best thing on this earth when a woman is in trouble. You’re a man and no mistake. Well, the devil may work against us for all he’s worth, but God sends us men when we want them.’
范海辛大步走上前，握住他的手，直视着他的眼睛说道：“当一个女人陷入困境时，勇敢的男人的血液是这个世界上最好的东西。”你是个男人，没有错。好吧，魔鬼可能会尽其所能地与我们作对，但上帝会在我们需要的时候派人给我们。

Once again we went through that ghastly operation. I have not the heart to go through with the details. Lucy had got a terrible shock and it told on her more than before, for though plenty of blood went into her veins, her body did not respond to the treatment as well as on the other occasions. Her struggle back into life was something frightful to see and hear. However, the action of both heart and lungs improved, and Van Helsing made a sub-cutaneous injection of morphia, as before, and with good effect. Her faint became a profound slumber. The Professor watched whilst I went downstairs with Quincey Morris, and sent one of the maids to pay off one of the cabmen who were waiting.
我们再一次经历了那场可怕的手术。我不忍心详述细节。露西受到了严重的震惊，这比以前对她的影响更大，因为尽管有大量的血液进入她的静脉，但她的身体对治疗的反应并不像其他情况下那样。她为重获新生所做的努力，所见所闻都是令人恐惧的。但心肺功能均有所改善，范海辛照旧进行了吗啡皮下注射，效果良好。她的昏厥变成了沉睡。教授看着我和昆西·莫里斯一起下楼，并派一名女仆去付钱给一名正在等待的出租车司机。

I left Quincey lying down after having a glass of wine, and told the cook to get ready a good breakfast. Then a thought struck me, and I went back to the room where Lucy now was. When I came softly in, I found Van Helsing with a sheet or two of note paper in his hand. He had evidently read it, and was thinking it over as he sat with his hand to his brow. There was a look of grim satisfaction in his face, as of one who has had a doubt solved. He handed me the paper saying only, ‘It dropped from Lucy’s breast when we carried her to the bath.’
喝完一杯酒后，我让昆西躺下，让厨师准备一顿丰盛的早餐。然后我突然想到了什么，然后我回到了露西现在所在的房间。当我轻手轻脚地进来时，我发现范海辛手里拿着一两张便条纸。他显然已经读过这封信，并且用手捂着额头坐着思考。他脸上露出一种严峻的满足感，就像一个疑虑得到解决的人一样。他把纸递给我，只说：“当我们抱露西去洗澡时，它从她的胸前掉下来。”

When I had read it, I stood looking at the Professor, and after a pause asked him, ‘In God’s name, what does it all mean? Was she, or is she, mad, or what sort of horrible danger is it?’ I was so bewildered that I did not know what to say more. Van Helsing put out his hand and took the paper, saying,
当我读完之后，我站着看着教授，停顿了一下后问他：“看在上帝的份上，这一切意味着什么？”她是疯了，还是有什么可怕的危险？”我不知该说什么才好。范海辛伸出手接过那张纸，说道：

‘Do not trouble about it now. Forget it for the present. You shall know and understand it all in good time, but it will be later. And now what is it that you came to me to say?’ This brought me back to fact, and I was all myself again.
‘现在别费心了。暂时忘掉它吧。到了适当的时候你就会知道并理解这一切，但那会是以后的事了。现在你来找我到底想说什么？’这让我回到了现实，我又恢复了原来的样子。

‘I came to speak about the certificate of death. If we do not act properly and wisely, there may be an inquest, and that paper would have to be produced. I am in hopes that we need have no inquest, for if we had it would surely kill poor Lucy, if nothing else did. I know, and you know, and the other doctor who attended her knows, that Mrs. Westenra had disease of the heart, and we can certify that she died of it. Let us fill up the certificate at once, and I shall take it myself to the registrar and go on to the undertaker.’
“我是来谈谈死亡证明的事情的。如果我们不采取适当和明智的行动，可能会进行调查，并且必须出示该文件。我希望我们不需要进行审讯，因为如果我们进行了审讯，如果没有别的办法的话，可怜的露西肯定会被杀死。我知道，你也知道，另一位为她看病的医生也知道，韦斯特拉夫人患有心脏病，我们可以证明她死于心脏病。让我们立即填写证明，我将亲自将其带到登记员处，然后再去找殡仪馆。

‘Good, oh my friend John! Well thought of! Truly Miss Lucy, if she be sad in the foes that beset her, is at least happy in the friends that love her. One, two, three, all open their veins for her, besides one old man. Ah, yes, I know, friend John. I am not blind! I love you all the more for it! Now go.’
‘很好，哦我的朋友约翰！经过深思熟虑的！确实，露西小姐，如果她为困扰她的敌人感到悲伤，至少为爱她的朋友感到高兴。一、二、三，除了一位老者之外，全部都在为她开脉。啊，是的，我知道，朋友约翰。我又不瞎！我因此更加爱你！现在，走吧。'

In the hall I met Quincey Morris, with a telegram for Arthur telling him that Mrs. Westenra was dead, that Lucy also had been ill, but was now going on better, and that Van Helsing and I were with her. I told him where I was going, and he hurried me out, but as I was going said,
在大厅里，我遇到了昆西·莫里斯，他给阿瑟发了一封电报，告诉他韦斯特拉夫人去世了，露西也病了，但现在情况好多了，范海辛和我和她在一起。我告诉他我要去哪里，他催促我出去，但当我要去的时候，他说：

‘When you come back, Jack, may I have two words with you all to ourselves?’ I nodded in reply and went out. I found no difficulty about the registration, and arranged with the local undertaker to come up in the evening to measure for the coffin and to make arrangements.
“杰克，等你回来后，我可以跟你们说两句话吗？”我点点头，然后出去了。我发现登记没有困难，就安排当地殡仪馆晚上过来测量棺材并做好安排。

When I got back Quincey was waiting for me. I told him I would see him as soon as I knew about Lucy, and went up to her room. She was still sleeping, and the Professor seemingly had not moved from his seat at her side. From his putting his finger to his lips, I gathered that he expected her to wake before long and was afraid of fore-stalling nature. So I went down to Quincey and took him into the breakfast room, where the blinds were not drawn down, and which was a little more cheerful, or rather less cheerless, than the other rooms.
当我回来时，昆西正在等我。我告诉他，一旦我知道露西的事，我就会去看他，然后就上楼去了她的房间。她还在睡觉，教授似乎没有离开她身边的座位。从他把手指放在嘴唇上，我推测他预计她很快就会醒来，并且害怕提前拖延。于是我下楼去找昆西，带他走进早餐室，早餐室的百叶窗没有拉下，与其他房间相比，这里显得更加欢快，或者说不那么沉闷。

When we were alone, he said to me, ‘Jack Seward, I don’t want to shove myself in anywhere where I’ve no right to be, but this is no ordinary case. You know I loved that girl and wanted to marry her, but although that’s all past and gone, I can’t help feeling anxious about her all the same. What is it that’s wrong with her? The Dutchman, and a fine old fellow he is, I can see that, said that time you two came into the room, that you must have another transfusion of blood, and that both you and he were exhausted. Now I know well that you medical men speak in camera, and that a man must not expect to know what they consult about in private. But this is no common matter, and whatever it is, I have done my part. Is not that so?’
当我们独处时，他对我说：‘杰克·苏厄德，我不想把自己推到我无权去的地方，但这不是一个普通的案例。你知道我爱那个女孩，想娶她，但尽管这一切都过去了，我还是忍不住为她感到焦虑。她到底怎么了？我看得出来，那个荷兰人是个很好的老家伙，他说你们两个走进房间的时候，你们必须再输一次血，而你们和他都精疲力尽了。现在我很清楚，你们医务人员是在私下里说话的，一个人不能指望知道他们私下咨询的内容。但这不是一件平常的事，不管是什么，我已经尽了自己的职责。不是这样吗？

‘That’s so,’ I said, and he went on.
“是这样的，”我说，他继续说道。

‘I take it that both you and Van Helsing had done already what I did today. Is not that so?’
“我认为你和范海辛都已经做了我今天所做的事情。不是这样吗？

‘That’s so.’
“是这样的。”

‘And I guess Art was in it too. When I saw him four days ago down at his own place he looked queer. I have not seen anything pulled down so quick since I was on the Pampas and had a mare that I was fond of go to grass all in a night. One of those big bats that they call vampires had got at her in the night, and what with his gorge and the vein left open, there wasn’t enough blood in her to let her stand up, and I had to put a bullet through her as she lay. Jack, if you may tell me without betraying confidence, Arthur was the first, is not that so?’
“我猜艺术也在其中。四天前我在他自己的住处见到他时，他看起来很奇怪。自从我在潘帕斯草原上养了一匹我喜欢在一夜之间去草地的母马以来，我还没有见过任何东西能这么快地被拉下来。一只被他们称为吸血鬼的大蝙蝠在夜间袭击了她，由于他的喉咙和静脉都处于开放状态，她体内没有足够的血液让她站起来，我不得不用一颗子弹穿过她躺着的时候。杰克，如果你可以不失信心地告诉我，亚瑟是第一个，不是吗？

As he spoke the poor fellow looked terribly anxious. He was in a torture of suspense regarding the woman he loved, and his utter ignorance of the terrible mystery which seemed to surround her intensified his pain. His very heart was bleeding, and it took all the manhood of him, and there was a royal lot of it, too, to keep him from breaking down. I paused before answering, for I felt that I must not betray anything which the Professor wished kept secret, but already he knew so much, and guessed so much, that there could be no reason for not answering, so I answered in the same phrase.
当他说话的时候，这个可怜的家伙看起来非常焦虑。他对他所爱的女人充满了悬念的折磨，而他对她周围似乎可怕的谜团的完全无知加剧了他的痛苦。他的心在流血，他用尽了全部的男子气概，而且还付出了巨大的男子气概，才让他不至于崩溃。我在回答之前停了下来，因为我觉得我不能泄露教授希望保守秘密的任何事情，但他已经知道这么多，猜到这么多，所以没有理由不回答，所以我用同样的短语回答。

‘That’s so.’
“是这样的。”

‘And how long has this been going on?’
“这种情况持续了多久？”

‘About ten days.’
“大约十天。”

‘Ten days! Then I guess, Jack Seward, that that poor pretty creature that we all love has had put into her veins within that time the blood of four strong men. Man alive, her whole body wouldn’t hold it.’ Then coming close to me, he spoke in a fierce half-whisper. ‘What took it out?’
'十天！那么我想，杰克苏厄德，那个我们都爱的可怜的美丽生物在那段时间里已经在她的血管里注入了四个强壮男人的血液。人活着，她的整个身体都受不了了。”然后他靠近我，用凶狠的半耳语说道。 “是什么把它拿出来的？”

I shook my head. ‘That,’ I said, ‘is the crux. Van Helsing is simply frantic about it, and I am at my wits’ end. I can’t even hazard a guess. There has been a series of little circumstances which have thrown out all our calculations as to Lucy being properly watched. But these shall not occur again. Here we stay until all be well, or ill.’
我摇摇头。 “这，”我说，“才是症结所在。”范海辛对此简直是抓狂了，而我却束手无策。我什至不能冒险猜测。发生了一系列的小情况，使我们对露西受到适当监视的所有预测都发生了变化。但这些不会再发生了。我们留在这里，直到一切都好，或者生病。

Quincey held out his hand. ‘Count me in,’ he said. ‘You and the Dutchman will tell me what to do, and I’ll do it.’
昆西伸出了手。 “算我一个，”他说。 “你和荷兰人会告诉我该怎么做，我就会这么做。”

When she woke late in the afternoon, Lucy’s first movement was to feel in her breast, and to my surprise, produced the paper which Van Helsing had given me to read. The careful Professor had replaced it where it had come from, lest on waking she should be alarmed. Her eyes then lit on Van Helsing and on me too, and gladdened. Then she looked round the room, and seeing where she was, shuddered. She gave a loud cry, and put her poor thin hands before her pale face.
当她下午晚些时候醒来时，露西的第一个动作是摸她的乳房，令我惊讶的是，她拿出了范海辛给我读的论文。细心的教授把它放回原来的地方，以免她醒来时受到惊吓。然后她的目光落在范海辛和我身上，心里很高兴。然后她环顾房间，看到自己所在的地方，不禁打了个寒颤。她大声叫了一声，把可怜的瘦手放在苍白的脸上。

We both understood what was meant, that she had realized to the full her mother’s death. So we tried what we could to comfort her. Doubtless sympathy eased her somewhat, but she was very low in thought and spirit, and wept silently and weakly for a long time. We told her that either or both of us would now remain with her all the time, and that seemed to comfort her. Towards dusk she fell into a doze. Here a very odd thing occurred. Whilst still asleep she took the paper from her breast and tore it in two. Van Helsing stepped over and took the pieces from her. All the same, however, she went on with the action of tearing, as though the material were still in her hands. Finally she lifted her hands and opened them as though scattering the fragments. Van Helsing seemed surprised, and his brows gathered as if in thought, but he said nothing.
我们都明白这意味着什么，她已经完全意识到了她母亲的死。所以我们想尽一切办法来安慰她。无疑，同情心让她稍稍放松了一些，但她的思想和精神都很低落，默默地、有气无力地哭了很长一段时间。我们告诉她，我们中的一个或两个现在将一直和她在一起，这似乎让她感到安慰。黄昏时分，她睡着了。这里发生了一件非常奇怪的事情。趁着睡着的时候，她从怀里取出那张纸，把它撕成两半。范海辛走过去，从她手中接过碎片。然而，她仍然继续撕扯的动作，就好像那材料还在她手里一样。最后她举起双手，张开，仿佛要散落碎片。范海辛显得很惊讶，眉头皱起，似乎在思考，但他什么也没说。

19 September.—All last night she slept fitfully, being always afraid to sleep, and something weaker when she woke from it. The Professor and I took in turns to watch, and we never left her for a moment unattended. Quincey Morris said nothing about his intention, but I knew that all night long he patrolled round and round the house.
9 月 19 日——昨晚她睡得断断续续，总是害怕入睡，醒来时感觉更虚弱。我和教授轮流观看，一刻也没有让她无人看管。昆西·莫里斯没有透露他的意图，但我知道他整个晚上都在房子周围巡逻。

When the day came, its searching light showed the ravages in poor Lucy’s strength. She was hardly able to turn her head, and the little nourishment which she could take seemed to do her no good. At times she slept, and both Van Helsing and I noticed the difference in her, between sleeping and waking. Whilst asleep she looked stronger, although more haggard, and her breathing was softer. Her open mouth showed the pale gums drawn back from the teeth, which looked positively longer and sharper than usual. When she woke the softness of her eyes evidently changed the expression, for she looked her own self, although a dying one. In the afternoon she asked for Arthur, and we telegraphed for him. Quincey went off to meet him at the station.
当这一天到来时，它的探照灯显示出可怜的露西的力量受到的破坏。她几乎无法转动头，而她所能摄取的少量营养似乎对她没有任何好处。有时她会睡觉，范海辛和我都注意到她睡着和醒着之间的差异。睡着的时候，她看起来更坚强，尽管更加憔悴，呼吸也更加柔和。她张开的嘴显示出苍白的牙龈从牙齿上向后拉，看起来比平常更长更锋利。当她醒来时，她眼睛里的温柔显然改变了表情，因为她看上去就是她自己，尽管她已经快要死了。下午，她要求见阿瑟，我们就给他发电报。昆西去车站接他。

When he arrived it was nearly six o’clock, and the sun was setting full and warm, and the red light streamed in through the window and gave more colour to the pale cheeks. When he saw her, Arthur was simply choking with emotion, and none of us could speak. In the hours that had passed, the fits of sleep, or the comatose condition that passed for it, had grown more frequent, so that the pauses when conversation was possible were shortened. Arthur’s presence, however, seemed to act as a stimulant. She rallied a little, and spoke to him more brightly than she had done since we arrived. He too pulled himself together, and spoke as cheerily as he could, so that the best was made of everything.
到达的时候已经快六点了，夕阳西下，暖暖的，红光从窗子里射进来，给苍白的脸颊增添了色彩。当他看到她时，亚瑟简直激动得哽咽，我们谁都说不出话来。在过去的几个小时里，睡眠的间歇性，或者说是昏迷的状态，变得越来越频繁，因此可以交谈的停顿时间也缩短了。然而，亚瑟的出现似乎起到了兴奋剂的作用。她稍微振作起来，对他说话比我们到达以来更加愉快。他也振作起来，尽可能愉快地说话，以便把一切都做到最好。

It is now nearly one o’clock, and he and Van Helsing are sitting with her. I am to relieve them in a quarter of an hour, and I am entering this on Lucy’s phonograph. Until six o’clock they are to try to rest. I fear that tomorrow will end our watching, for the shock has been too great. The poor child cannot rally. God help us all.
现在已经快一点了，他和范海辛正和她坐在一起。我要在一刻钟内接替他们，我正在把这句话记在露西的留声机上。直到六点钟，他们都要尝试休息。我担心明天我们就会结束观看，因为震撼太大了。可怜的孩子无法振作起来。愿上帝帮助我们所有人。

LETTER MINA HARKER TO LUCY WESTENRA
米娜·哈克写给露西·韦斯特拉的信

(Unopened by her)
（她未打开）

17 September
9 月 17 日

My dearest Lucy,
我最亲爱的露西，

‘It seems an age since I heard from you, or indeed since I wrote. You will pardon me, I know, for all my faults when you have read all my budget of news. Well, I got my husband back all right. When we arrived at Exeter there was a carriage waiting for us, and in it, though he had an attack of gout, Mr. Hawkins. He took us to his house, where there were rooms for us all nice and comfortable, and we dined together. After dinner Mr. Hawkins said,
“自从我收到你的消息，或者说，自从我写信以来，似乎已经有很多年了。我知道，当您读完我所有的新闻预算后，您会原谅我的所有过错。还好，我把我丈夫救回来了。当我们到达埃克塞特时，有一辆马车在等着我们，霍金斯先生虽然患有痛风，但在车里。他带我们去了他的房子，那里有适合我们的房间，房间又漂亮又舒适，我们一起吃饭。晚餐后霍金斯先生说，

‘ ‘My dears, I want to drink your health and prosperity, and may every blessing attend you both. I know you both from children, and have, with love and pride, seen you grow up. Now I want you to make your home here with me. I have left to me neither chick nor child. All are gone, and in my will I have left you everything.’ I cried, Lucy dear, as Jonathan and the old man clasped hands. Our evening was a very, very happy one.
‘亲爱的，我想为你们的健康和繁荣干杯，愿一切祝福降临到你们身上。我从小就认识你们，并带着爱和自豪看着你们长大。现在我要你和我一起在这里安家。我既没有给我留下小鸡，也没有给我留下孩子。一切都消失了，按照我的意愿，我把一切都留给了你。”当乔纳森和老人紧握双手时，亲爱的露西，我哭了。我们的夜晚是一个非常非常快乐的夜晚。

‘So here we are, installed in this beautiful old house, and from both my bedroom and the drawing room I can see the great elms of the cathedral close, with their great black stems standing out against the old yellow stone of the cathedral, and I can hear the rooks overhead cawing and cawing and chattering and chattering and gossiping all day, after the manner of rooks—and humans. I am busy, I need not tell you, arranging things and housekeeping. Jonathan and Mr. Hawkins are busy all day, for now that Jonathan is a partner, Mr. Hawkins wants to tell him all about the clients.
“所以我们就在这里，安置在这座美丽的老房子里，从我的卧室和客厅，我都可以看到大教堂附近的大榆树，它们巨大的黑色茎在大教堂古老的黄色石头的衬托下突出，我能听到头顶上的白嘴鸦一整天都在叽叽喳喳地叫、叽叽喳喳、喋喋不休、闲聊，就像白嘴鸦和人类一样。我很忙，不用告诉你，我忙着安排事情和做家务。乔纳森和霍金斯先生整天都很忙，现在乔纳森是合伙人，霍金斯先生想告诉他所有关于客户的事情。

‘How is your dear mother getting on? I wish I could run up to town for a day or two to see you, dear, but I, dare not go yet, with so much on my shoulders, and Jonathan wants looking after still. He is beginning to put some flesh on his bones again, but he was terribly weakened by the long illness. Even now he sometimes starts out of his sleep in a sudden way and awakes all trembling until I can coax him back to his usual placidity. However, thank God, these occasions grow less frequent as the days go on, and they will in time pass away altogether, I trust. And now I have told you my news, let me ask yours. When are you to be married, and where, and who is to perform the ceremony, and what are you to wear, and is it to be a public or private wedding? Tell me all about it, dear, tell me all about everything, for there is nothing which interests you which will not be dear to me. Jonathan asks me to send his ‘respectful duty’, but I do not think that is good enough from the junior partner of the important firm Hawkins & Harker. And so, as you love me, and he loves me, and I love you with all the moods and tenses of the verb, I send you simply his ‘love’ instead. Goodbye, my dearest Lucy, and blessings on you.’ Yours, Mina Harker
‘你亲爱的妈妈过得怎么样？我希望我能跑到城里一两天去看你，亲爱的，但我还不敢去，肩上担着这么多事情，而乔纳森仍然想要照顾。他的骨头又开始长肉了，但长期患病，他的身体已经非常虚弱了。即使是现在，他有时也会突然从睡梦中惊醒，浑身颤抖地醒来，直到我把他哄回到平常的平静状态。然而，感谢上帝，随着时间的推移，这种情况会越来越少，我相信它们最终会完全消失。现在我已经告诉你我的消息了，让我问问你的消息吧。您什么时候结婚、在哪里结婚、由谁主持婚礼、穿什么衣服、是公开婚礼还是私人婚礼？告诉我所有的事情，亲爱的，告诉我所有的事情，因为没有什么是你感兴趣的而不是我所珍视的。乔纳森要求我转达他的“尊敬的职责”，但我认为来自重要公司 Hawkins & Harker 的初级合伙人的转达还不够好。因此，当你爱我，他爱我，我用动词的所有情绪和时态爱你时，我只向你发送他的“爱”。再见，我最亲爱的露西，并祝福你。你的，米娜·哈克

REPORT FROM PATRICK HENNESSEY, MD, MRCSLK, QCPI, ETC, ETC, TO JOHN SEWARD, MD
PATRICK HENNESSEY（医学博士、MRCSLK、QCPI、ETC、ETC）至 JOHN SEWARD（医学博士）的报告

20 September
9 月 20 日

My dear Sir:
我亲爱的先生：

‘In accordance with your wishes, I enclose report of the conditions of everything left in my charge. With regard to patient, Renfield, there is more to say. He has had another outbreak, which might have had a dreadful ending, but which, as it fortunately happened, was unattended with any unhappy results. This afternoon a carrier’s cart with two men made a call at the empty house whose grounds abut on ours, the house to which, you will remember, the patient twice ran away. The men stopped at our gate to ask the porter their way, as they were strangers.
“按照您的意愿，我随函附上我负责的一切情况的报告。关于病人伦菲尔德，还有更多的话要说。他又爆发了一次疫情，这可能会有一个可怕的结局，但幸运的是，这次疫情没有引起任何不愉快的结果。今天下午，一辆载着两个人的运货车来到了我们家附近的一座空房子，你会记得，病人曾两次逃到这所房子里。这些人在我们门口停下来向门房问路，因为他们是陌生人。

‘I was myself looking out of the study window, having a smoke after dinner, and saw one of them come up to the house. As he passed the window of Renfield’s room, the patient began to rate him from within, and called him all the foul names he could lay his tongue to. The man, who seemed a decent fellow enough, contented himself by telling him to ‘shut up for a foul-mouthed beggar’, whereon our man accused him of robbing him and wanting to murder him and said that he would hinder him if he were to swing for it. I opened the window and signed to the man not to notice, so he contented himself after looking the place over and making up his mind as to what kind of place he had got to by saying, ‘Lor’ bless yer, sir, I wouldn’t mind what was said to me in a bloomin’ madhouse. I pity ye and the guv’nor for havin’ to live in the house with a wild beast like that.’
“我自己在晚饭后抽烟，从书房窗外望去，看到他们中的一个人朝房子走来。当他经过伦菲尔德房间的窗户时，病人开始从内部评价他，并用他能说出的所有脏话骂他。这名男子看起来是个正派的人，他满足地告诉他“为一个满嘴脏话的乞丐闭嘴”，我们的男子指责他抢劫他并想要谋杀他，并说如果他这样做，他就会阻止他。为之摇摆。我打开窗户，示意那个人不要注意，所以他在检查了这个地方并决定他要去什么样的地方后很满意，他说：“上帝保佑你，先生，我不会不要介意在疯人院里对我说的话。我很遗憾你们和州长没有和这样的野兽住在房子里。

‘Then he asked his way civilly enough, and I told him where the gate of the empty house was. He went away followed by threats and curses and revilings from our man. I went down to see if I could make out any cause for his anger, since he is usually such a well-behaved man, and except his violent fits nothing of the kind had ever occurred. I found him, to my astonishment, quite composed and most genial in his manner. I tried to get him to talk of the incident, but he blandly asked me questions as to what I meant, and led me to believe that he was completely oblivious of the affair. It was, I am sorry to say, however, only another instance of his cunning, for within half an hour I heard of him again. This time he had broken out through the window of his room, and was running down the avenue. I called to the attendants to follow me, and ran after him, for I feared he was intent on some mischief. My fear was justified when I saw the same cart which had passed before coming down the road, having on it some great wooden boxes. The men were wiping their foreheads, and were flushed in the face, as if with violent exercise. Before I could get up to him, the patient rushed at them, and pulling one of them off the cart, began to knock his head against the ground. If I had not seized him just at the moment, I believe he would have killed the man there and then. The other fellow jumped down and struck him over the head with the butt end of his heavy whip. It was a horrible blow, but he did not seem to mind it, but seized him also, and struggled with the three of us, pulling us to and fro as if we were kittens. You know I am no lightweight, and the others were both burly men. At first he was silent in his fighting, but as we began to master him, and the attendants were putting a strait waistcoat on him, he began to shout, ‘I’ll frustrate them! They shan’t rob me! They shan’t murder me by inches! I’ll fight for my Lord and Master!’ and all sorts of similar incoherent ravings. It was with very considerable difficulty that they got him back to the house and put him in the padded room. One of the attendants, Hardy, had a finger broken. However, I set it all right, and he is going on well.
“然后他很有礼貌地问路，我告诉他空房子的大门在哪里。他离开后，我们的人就发出威胁、咒骂和辱骂。我下去看看是否能找出他生气的原因，因为他通常是一个表现很好的人，除了他的暴力发作之外，从来没有发生过类似的事情。令我惊讶的是，我发现他非常镇静，态度也非常和蔼可亲。我试图让他谈论这件事，但他温和地问我问题是什么意思，让我相信他完全没有注意到这件事。然而，我很遗憾地说，这只是他狡猾的又一个例子，因为不到半小时我又听说了他。这次他从房间的窗户冲了出去，沿着大街跑去。我招呼侍从跟着我，自己也追了上去，生怕他有什么恶作剧。当我看到那辆马车在沿路行驶之前经过，上面有一些大木箱时，我的恐惧是有道理的。男人们擦着额头，脸色通红，像是剧烈运动过的样子。我还没来得及走到他身边，病人就冲向他们，把其中一个人从车上拉下来，开始用头撞地。如果我当时没有抓住他，我相信他会当场杀死那个人。另一个家伙跳下来，用沉重的鞭子抽打他的头。这是一个可怕的打击，但他似乎并不介意，反而也抓住了他，和我们三人扭打在一起，把我们拉来拉去，就像我们是小猫一样。要知道，我的身材可不轻，其他人都是魁梧的男人。 起初他在战斗中保持沉默，但当我们开始控制他，服务员给他穿上紧身背心时，他开始大喊：“我要挫败他们！”他们不会抢我的东西！他们不会把我杀死的！我会为我的主和主人而战！”以及各种类似的语无伦次的胡言乱语。他们费了很大的劲才把他带回屋里，并把他安置在有软垫的房间里。其中一名服务员哈迪的一根手指被折断。不过，我把一切都安排好了，他也进展顺利。

‘The two carriers were at first loud in their threats of actions for damages, and promised to rain all the penalties of the law on us. Their threats were, however, mingled with some sort of indirect apology for the defeat of the two of them by a feeble madman. They said that if it had not been for the way their strength had been spent in carrying and raising the heavy boxes to the cart they would have made short work of him. They gave as another reason for their defeat the extraordinary state of drouth to which they had been reduced by the dusty nature of their occupation and the reprehensible distance from the scene of their labors of any place of public entertainment. I quite understood their drift, and after a stiff glass of strong grog, or rather more of the same, and with each a sovereign in hand, they made light of the attack, and swore that they would encounter a worse madman any day for the pleasure of meeting so ‘bloomin’ good a bloke’ as your correspondent. I took their names and addresses, in case they might be needed. They are as follows: Jack Smollet, of Dudding’s Rents, King George’s Road, Great Walworth, and Thomas Snelling, Peter Farley’s Row, Guide Court, Bethnal Green. They are both in the employment of Harris & Sons, Moving and Shipment Company, Orange Master’s Yard, Soho.
“这两家承运人起初大声威胁要采取损害赔偿行动，并承诺将依法对我们进行所有处罚。然而，他们的威胁中夹杂着某种间接的道歉，为他们两个被一个软弱的疯子击败而道歉。他们说，如果不是他们费了很大力气把沉重的箱子搬到车上，他们很快就能干掉他。他们给出的失败的另一个原因是，他们的职业是尘土飞扬的，而且任何公共娱乐场所距离他们的劳动现场都应受谴责的距离，导致他们陷入了极度干旱的状态。我完全理解他们的意图，喝了一杯烈酒，或者更确切地说，喝了一杯烈酒，每人手里拿着一个金币，他们对这次袭击轻描淡写，发誓他们随时都会遇到一个更糟糕的疯子。很高兴见到像你的通讯员这样“绽放”的好人。我记下了他们的姓名和地址，以备需要时使用。他们是：杰克·斯莫莱特（Jack Smollet），来自达丁出租屋（Dudding’s Rents），乔治国王路（Great Walworth）；托马斯·斯内林（Thomas Snelling），来自彼得·法利街（Peter Farley’s Row），吉德法院（Bethnal Green）。他们都受雇于 Harris & Sons、Moving and Shipment Company、Orange Master’s Yard、Soho。

‘I shall report to you any matter of interest occurring here, and shall wire you at once if there is anything of importance.
“我会向你报告这里发生的任何有趣的事情，如果有什么重要的事情，我会立即给你发电报。”

‘Believe me, dear Sir,
“相信我，亲爱的先生，

‘Yours faithfully,
'此致，

‘Patrick Hennessey.’
“帕特里克·亨尼西。”

LETTER, MINA HARKER TO LUCY WESTENRA (Unopened by her)
米娜·哈克写给露西·韦斯特拉的信（她未拆封）

18 September
9 月 18 日

‘My dearest Lucy,
“我最亲爱的露西，

‘Such a sad blow has befallen us. Mr. Hawkins has died very suddenly. Some may not think it so sad for us, but we had both come to so love him that it really seems as though we had lost a father. I never knew either father or mother, so that the dear old man’s death is a real blow to me. Jonathan is greatly distressed. It is not only that he feels sorrow, deep sorrow, for the dear, good man who has befriended him all his life, and now at the end has treated him like his own son and left him a fortune which to people of our modest bringing up is wealth beyond the dream of avarice, but Jonathan feels it on another account. He says the amount of responsibility which it puts upon him makes him nervous. He begins to doubt himself. I try to cheer him up, and my belief in him helps him to have a belief in himself. But it is here that the grave shock that he experienced tells upon him the most. Oh, it is too hard that a sweet, simple, noble, strong nature such as his, a nature which enabled him by our dear, good friend’s aid to rise from clerk to master in a few years, should be so injured that the very essence of its strength is gone. Forgive me, dear, if I worry you with my troubles in the midst of your own happiness, but Lucy dear, I must tell someone, for the strain of keeping up a brave and cheerful appearance to Jonathan tries me, and I have no one here that I can confide in. I dread coming up to London, as we must do that day after tomorrow, for poor Mr. Hawkins left in his will that he was to be buried in the grave with his father. As there are no relations at all, Jonathan will have to be chief mourner. I shall try to run over to see you, dearest, if only for a few minutes. Forgive me for troubling you. With all blessings,
‘我们遭受了如此悲伤的打击。霍金斯先生去世得很突然。有些人可能不认为这对我们来说有多悲伤，但我们都变得如此爱他，以至于我们真的好像失去了一位父亲。我从来不认识父亲或母亲，所以亲爱的老人的去世对我来说是一个沉重的打击。乔纳森非常苦恼。他不仅为这个亲爱的好人感到悲伤，深切的悲伤，他一生都与他为友，现在最终把他当作自己的儿子一样对待，并给他留下了一笔财富，让我们这些谦虚的人向上是超出贪婪梦想的财富，但乔纳森从另一个角度感受到了它。他说，这给他带来的责任让他感到紧张。他开始怀疑自己。我试着让他振作起来，我对他的信任帮助他对自己有信心。但正是在这里，他所经历的严重震惊给他留下了最深刻的印象。噢，像他这样可爱、单纯、高贵、坚强的天性，在我们亲爱的好朋友的帮助下，几年之内就从职员晋升为主人的天性，竟然受到如此严重的伤害，真是太难了。它的本质力量已经消失了。请原谅我，亲爱的，如果我在你幸福的同时为你的烦恼担心，但是亲爱的露西，我必须告诉别人，因为在乔纳森面前保持勇敢和快乐的外表对我来说是一种压力，而我没有人我不敢去伦敦，因为我们后天必须这么做，因为可怜的霍金斯先生在遗嘱中留下了他将与他父亲一起埋葬在坟墓里的消息。由于根本没有亲属关系，乔纳森必须担任主祭。我会试着跑过去见你，亲爱的，哪怕只是几分钟。请原谅我给你添麻烦了。带着一切祝福，

‘Your loving
‘你的爱

Mina Harker.’
米娜·哈克。”

DR. SEWARD’S DIARY
博士。苏厄德的日记

20 September.—Only resolution and habit can let me make an entry tonight. I am too miserable, too low spirited, too sick of the world and all in it, including life itself, that I would not care if I heard this moment the flapping of the wings of the angel of death. And he has been flapping those grim wings to some purpose of late, Lucy’s mother and Arthur’s father, and now … Let me get on with my work.
9 月 20 日——只有决心和习惯才能让我今晚参赛。我太痛苦了，太情绪低落，太厌倦了这个世界和其中的一切，包括生命本身，以至于我不会在意此刻是否听到死亡天使拍打翅膀的声音。露西的母亲和亚瑟的父亲，他最近一直在为了某种目的而扇动那些冷酷的翅膀，而现在……让我继续我的工作。

I duly relieved Van Helsing in his watch over Lucy. We wanted Arthur to go to rest also, but he refused at first. It was only when I told him that we should want him to help us during the day, and that we must not all break down for want of rest, lest Lucy should suffer, that he agreed to go.
我适时地接替了范海辛看管露西的工作。我们想让亚瑟也去休息，但他一开始拒绝了。直到我告诉他白天我们应该让他帮助我们，而且我们不能因为缺乏休息而崩溃，以免露西受苦时，他才同意去。

Van Helsing was very kind to him. ‘Come, my child,’ he said. ‘Come with me. You are sick and weak, and have had much sorrow and much mental pain, as well as that tax on your strength that we know of. You must not be alone, for to be alone is to be full of fears and alarms. Come to the drawing room, where there is a big fire, and there are two sofas. You shall lie on one, and I on the other, and our sympathy will be comfort to each other, even though we do not speak, and even if we sleep.’
范海辛对他非常友善。 “来吧，我的孩子，”他说。 '跟我来。你病了，身体虚弱，经历了很多悲伤和精神痛苦，以及我们所知的对你体力的负担。你一定不能独自一人，因为独自一人就会充满恐惧和惊慌。来到客厅，那里生着大火，还有两张沙发。你躺在一张床上，我躺在另一张床上，即使我们不说话，即使我们睡觉，我们的同情也会让彼此感到安慰。

Arthur went off with him, casting back a longing look on Lucy’s face, which lay in her pillow, almost whiter than the lawn. She lay quite still, and I looked around the room to see that all was as it should be. I could see that the Professor had carried out in this room, as in the other, his purpose of using the garlic. The whole of the window sashes reeked with it, and round Lucy’s neck, over the silk handkerchief which Van Helsing made her keep on, was a rough chaplet of the same odorous flowers.
亚瑟和他一起走了，露西躺在枕头上的脸上露出了渴望的表情，她的脸几乎比草坪还白。她一动不动地躺着，我环视房间，发现一切都正常。我可以看出，教授在这个房间里，就像在另一个房间里一样，实现了他使用大蒜的目的。整个窗框都散发着臭味，露西的脖子上，范海辛让她戴上的丝绸手帕上，挂着一串同样散发着气味的粗糙花环。

Lucy was breathing somewhat stertorously, and her face was at its worst, for the open mouth showed the pale gums. Her teeth, in the dim, uncertain light, seemed longer and sharper than they had been in the morning. In particular, by some trick of the light, the canine teeth looked longer and sharper than the rest.
露西的呼吸有些粗重，她的脸色最糟糕，张开的嘴露出苍白的牙龈。在昏暗、不确定的光线下，她的牙齿看起来比早上更长、更锋利。特别是，在光线的作用下，犬齿看起来比其他牙齿更长、更锋利。

I sat down beside her, and presently she moved uneasily. At the same moment there came a sort of dull flapping or buffeting at the window. I went over to it softly, and peeped out by the corner of the blind. There was a full moonlight, and I could see that the noise was made by a great bat, which wheeled around, doubtless attracted by the light, although so dim, and every now and again struck the window with its wings. When I came back to my seat, I found that Lucy had moved slightly, and had torn away the garlic flowers from her throat. I replaced them as well as I could, and sat watching her.
我在她旁边坐下，不久她就不安地动了动。与此同时，窗户上传来一阵沉闷的拍打声或撞击声。我轻轻地走过去，从百叶窗的一角往外看。月光正浓，我看得出来那是一只大蝙蝠发出的声音，它盘旋着，无疑是被月光吸引了，虽然光线很暗，但时不时地用翅膀拍打窗户。当我回到座位上时，我发现露西稍微动了动，把喉咙里的蒜花撕了下来。我尽我所能地把它们放回原处，然后坐在那儿看着她。

Presently she woke, and I gave her food, as Van Helsing had prescribed. She took but a little, and that languidly. There did not seem to be with her now the unconscious struggle for life and strength that had hitherto so marked her illness. It struck me as curious that the moment she became conscious she pressed the garlic flowers close to her. It was certainly odd that whenever she got into that lethargic state, with the stertorous breathing, she put the flowers from her, but that when she waked she clutched them close, There was no possibility of making any mistake about this, for in the long hours that followed, she had many spells of sleeping and waking and repeated both actions many times.
不久她醒了，我按照范海辛的处方给她食物。她只喝了一点，而且是懒洋洋的。现在，她身上似乎不再有那种为生命和力量而进行的无意识的斗争，而这种斗争迄今为止一直是她患病的标志。让我感到好奇的是，当她醒来的那一刻，她就把大蒜花贴近了。确实很奇怪，每当她陷入那种昏昏欲睡的状态，伴随着鼾声，她就把花从身上放开，但当她醒来时，她紧紧地抓住它们，这一点不可能犯任何错误，因为在很长一段时间里，接下来的几个小时里，她多次睡眠和醒来，并多次重复这两个动作。

At six o’clock Van Helsing came to relieve me. Arthur had then fallen into a doze, and he mercifully let him sleep on. When he saw Lucy’s face I could hear the hissing indraw of breath, and he said to me in a sharp whisper. ‘Draw up the blind. I want light!’ Then he bent down, and, with his face almost touching Lucy’s, examined her carefully. He removed the flowers and lifted the silk handkerchief from her throat. As he did so he started back and I could hear his ejaculation, ‘Mein Gott!’ as it was smothered in his throat. I bent over and looked, too, and as I noticed some queer chill came over me. The wounds on the throat had absolutely disappeared.
六点钟，范海辛来接替我。亚瑟随后陷入了瞌睡，他仁慈地让他继续睡。当他看到露西的脸时，我能听到嘶嘶的吸气声，他用尖锐的耳语对我说道。 ‘拉上百叶窗。我需要光！”然后他弯下腰，脸几乎贴着露西的脸，仔细地审视着她。他摘下鲜花，取下她脖子上的丝绸手帕。当他这样做时，他向后退了一步，我能听到他的射精声，“我的哥特！”因为它被窒息在他的喉咙里。我也弯下身子看了看，发现我感到一阵奇怪的寒意。喉咙上的伤口已经完全消失了。

For fully five minutes Van Helsing stood looking at her, with his face at its sternest. Then he turned to me and said calmly, ‘She is dying. It will not be long now. It will be much difference, mark me, whether she dies conscious or in her sleep. Wake that poor boy, and let him come and see the last. He trusts us, and we have promised him.’
范海辛站在那里看着她整整五分钟，脸上的表情十分严肃。然后他转向我，平静地说：‘她快要死了。现在不会太久了。请注意，无论她是在有意识的情况下还是在睡梦中死去，都会有很大的不同。叫醒那个可怜的男孩，让他来看最后一个。他信任我们，我们也向他做出了承诺。”

I went to the dining room and waked him. He was dazed for a moment, but when he saw the sunlight streaming in through the edges of the shutters he thought he was late, and expressed his fear. I assured him that Lucy was still asleep, but told him as gently as I could that both Van Helsing and I feared that the end was near. He covered his face with his hands, and slid down on his knees by the sofa, where he remained, perhaps a minute, with his head buried, praying, whilst his shoulders shook with grief. I took him by the hand and raised him up. ‘Come,’ I said, ‘my dear old fellow, summon all your fortitude. It will be best and easiest for her.’
我走到餐厅叫醒了他。他愣了一下，但当他看到阳光从百叶窗边缘射进来时，他以为自己迟到了，并表达了他的恐惧。我向他保证露西还在睡觉，但尽可能温和地告诉他，范海辛和我都担心末日即将来临。他用手捂住脸，跪在沙发旁，埋头祈祷了大约一分钟，肩膀因悲伤而颤抖。我拉着他的手，把他扶了起来。 ‘来吧，’我说，‘我亲爱的老伙计，拿出你所有的毅力。这对她来说是最好、最简单的。”

When we came into Lucy’s room I could see that Van Helsing had, with his usual forethought, been putting matters straight and making everything look as pleasing as possible. He had even brushed Lucy’s hair, so that it lay on the pillow in its usual sunny ripples. When we came into the room she opened her eyes, and seeing him, whispered softly, ‘Arthur! Oh, my love, I am so glad you have come!’
当我们走进露西的房间时，我可以看到范海辛以他一贯的深思熟虑，一直在把事情搞清楚，让一切看起来尽可能令人愉快。他甚至还梳理了露西的头发，让她的头发像往常一样在枕头上呈现出阳光般的波纹。当我们走进房间时，她睁开眼睛，看到他，轻声低语道：“亚瑟！”哦，我的爱人，我很高兴你能来！

He was stooping to kiss her, when Van Helsing motioned him back. ‘No,’ he whispered, ‘not yet! Hold her hand, it will comfort her more.’
当范海辛示意他回来时，他正弯下腰去吻她。 “不，”他低声说，“还没有！”握住她的手，这样会让她更加安慰。”

So Arthur took her hand and knelt beside her, and she looked her best, with all the soft lines matching the angelic beauty of her eyes. Then gradually her eyes closed, and she sank to sleep. For a little bit her breast heaved softly, and her breath came and went like a tired child’s.
于是亚瑟拉着她的手跪在她身边，她看起来最美，所有柔和的线条都与她天使般美丽的眼睛相匹配。然后，她的眼睛渐渐闭上，沉沉睡去。她的乳房轻轻地起伏了一会儿，她的呼吸像疲倦的孩子一样时断时续。

And then insensibly there came the strange change which I had noticed in the night. Her breathing grew stertorous, the mouth opened, and the pale gums, drawn back, made the teeth look longer and sharper than ever. In a sort of sleep-waking, vague, unconscious way she opened her eyes, which were now dull and hard at once, and said in a soft, voluptuous voice, such as I had never heard from her lips, ‘Arthur! Oh, my love, I am so glad you have come! Kiss me!’
然后不知不觉地出现了我在夜间注意到的奇怪变化。她的呼吸变得粗重，嘴巴张开，苍白的牙龈向后缩，牙齿看起来比以前更长更锋利。她以一种睡醒的、模糊的、无意识的方式睁开了眼睛，她的眼睛现在变得呆滞而坚硬，并用一种​​柔和而性感的声音说，就像我从未从她的嘴唇中听到过的那样，“亚瑟！”哦，我的爱人，我很高兴你能来！吻我！'

Arthur bent eagerly over to kiss her, but at that instant Van Helsing, who, like me, had been startled by her voice, swooped upon him, and catching him by the neck with both hands, dragged him back with a fury of strength which I never thought he could have possessed, and actually hurled him almost across the room.
亚瑟急切地弯下腰去吻她，但就在这时，范海辛和我一样被她的声音吓了一跳，猛地扑到他身上，双手掐住他的脖子，用狂暴的力量把他拖了回来。我从没想过他会附体，而且几乎把他扔到了房间的另一边。

‘Not on your life!’ he said, ‘not for your living soul and hers!’ And he stood between them like a lion at bay.
“不是为了你的生命！”他说，“不是为了你和她的灵魂！”他像一头陷入困境的狮子一样站在他们中间。

Arthur was so taken aback that he did not for a moment know what to do or say, and before any impulse of violence could seize him he realized the place and the occasion, and stood silent, waiting.
亚瑟大吃一惊，一时间不知道该做什么或说什么，在任何暴力冲动抓住他之前，他意识到了这个地方和场合，静静地站着，等待着。

I kept my eyes fixed on Lucy, as did Van Helsing, and we saw a spasm as of rage flit like a shadow over her face. The sharp teeth clamped together. Then her eyes closed, and she breathed heavily.
我的眼睛一直盯着露西，范海辛也是如此，我们看到她因愤怒而痉挛，像阴影一样掠过她的脸。锋利的牙齿咬在一起。然后她闭上了眼睛，呼吸粗重。

Very shortly after she opened her eyes in all their softness, and putting out her poor, pale, thin hand, took Van Helsing’s great brown one, drawing it close to her, she kissed it. ‘My true friend,’ she said, in a faint voice, but with untellable pathos, ‘My true friend, and his! Oh, guard him, and give me peace!’
不久之后，她睁开温柔的眼睛，伸出她可怜的、苍白的、瘦弱的手，握住范海辛那只棕色的大手，把它拉近自己，她吻了它。 “我真正的朋友，”她声音微弱，但却带着难以言喻的悲伤，“我真正的朋友，还有他的！”哦，保护他，给我平安！”

‘I swear it!’ he said solemnly, kneeling beside her and holding up his hand, as one who registers an oath. Then he turned to Arthur, and said to him, ‘Come, my child, take her hand in yours, and kiss her on the forehead, and only once.’
“我发誓！”他跪在她身边，举起手，郑重地说，就像一个宣誓的人。然后他转向亚瑟，对他说：“来吧，我的孩子，握住她的手，亲吻她的额头，只一次。”

Their eyes met instead of their lips, and so they parted. Lucy’s eyes closed, and Van Helsing, who had been watching closely, took Arthur’s arm, and drew him away.
他们的目光相遇，而不是嘴唇相遇，于是他们分开了。露西闭上了眼睛，一直注视着的范海辛抓住了亚瑟的手臂，将他拉开了。

And then Lucy’s breathing became stertorous again, and all at once it ceased.
然后露西的呼吸又变得粗重起来，然后突然停止了。

‘It is all over,’ said Van Helsing. ‘She is dead!’
“一切都结束了，”范海辛说道。 '她死了！'

I took Arthur by the arm, and led him away to the drawing room, where he sat down, and covered his face with his hands, sobbing in a way that nearly broke me down to see.
我挽着阿瑟的手臂，把他带到客厅，他坐下来，用手捂住脸，抽泣着，我看到的样子几乎让我崩溃。

I went back to the room, and found Van Helsing looking at poor Lucy, and his face was sterner than ever. Some change had come over her body. Death had given back part of her beauty, for her brow and cheeks had recovered some of their flowing lines. Even the lips had lost their deadly pallor. It was as if the blood, no longer needed for the working of the heart, had gone to make the harshness of death as little rude as might be.
我回到房间，发现范海辛看着可怜的露西，他的脸色比以前更加严肃。她的身体发生了一些变化。死亡让她恢复了部分美丽，她的额头和脸颊也恢复了一些流畅的线条。就连嘴唇也失去了死一般的苍白。就好像心脏工作不再需要的血液已经消失，让死亡的严酷变得不再那么无礼。

‘We thought her dying whilst she slept, And sleeping when she died.’
“我们以为她在睡觉时就快要死了，而当她死时，她也在睡觉。”

I stood beside Van Helsing, and said, ‘Ah well, poor girl, there is peace for her at last. It is the end!’
我站在范海辛旁边说：‘好吧，可怜的女孩，她终于得到了平静。结束了！

He turned to me, and said with grave solemnity, ‘Not so, alas! Not so. It is only the beginning!’
他转向我，严肃地说：“唉，事实并非如此！”并非如此。这只是开始！

When I asked him what he meant, he only shook his head and answered, ‘We can do nothing as yet. Wait and see.’
当我问他这是什么意思时，他只是摇摇头回答说：“我们目前还无能为力。”等着瞧。'

Chapter 13
第13章

DR. SEWARD’S DIARY—cont.
博士。苏厄德的日记——续

The funeral was arranged for the next succeeding day, so that Lucy and her mother might be buried together. I attended to all the ghastly formalities, and the urbane undertaker proved that his staff was afflicted, or blessed, with something of his own obsequious suavity. Even the woman who performed the last offices for the dead remarked to me, in a confidential, brother-professional way, when she had come out from the death chamber,
葬礼安排在第二天，以便露西和她的母亲可以埋在一起。我参加了所有可怕的手续，而彬彬有礼的殡葬承办人用他自己的谄媚和温文尔雅来证明他的工作人员受到了折磨，或者说受到了祝福。就连为死者执行最后职责的女人，当她从死刑室出来时，也以一种保密的、兄弟专业的方式对我说：

‘She makes a very beautiful corpse, sir. It’s quite a privilege to attend on her. It’s not too much to say that she will do credit to our establishment!’
“她的尸体非常漂亮，先生。能够参加她的活动真是我的荣幸。毫不夸张地说，她将为我们的机构增光添彩！

I noticed that Van Helsing never kept far away. This was possible from the disordered state of things in the household. There were no relatives at hand, and as Arthur had to be back the next day to attend at his father’s funeral, we were unable to notify any one who should have been bidden. Under the circumstances, Van Helsing and I took it upon ourselves to examine papers, etc. He insisted upon looking over Lucy’s papers himself. I asked him why, for I feared that he, being a foreigner, might not be quite aware of English legal requirements, and so might in ignorance make some unnecessary trouble.
我注意到范海辛从不远离我。这是可能的，因为家里的秩序混乱。身边没有亲戚，而且亚瑟必须在第二天回来参加他父亲的葬礼，所以我们无法通知任何应该被邀请的人。在这种情况下，范海辛和我就自己去检查论文等等。他坚持要亲自查看露西的论文。我问他为什么，因为我担心他作为一个外国人，可能不太了解英国的法律要求，因此可能会因为无知而造成一些不必要的麻烦。

He answered me, ‘I know, I know. You forget that I am a lawyer as well as a doctor. But this is not altogether for the law. You knew that, when you avoided the coroner. I have more than him to avoid. There may be papers more, such as this.’
他回答我：‘我知道，我知道。你忘了我是一名律师也是一名医生。但这并不完全是为了法律。当你避开验尸官时你就知道这一点。我比他更需要避免。可能还有更多的论文，比如这样的。

As he spoke he took from his pocket book the memorandum which had been in Lucy’s breast, and which she had torn in her sleep.
他一边说话，一边从口袋里取出了露西怀里的备忘录，那是她在睡梦中撕掉的。

‘When you find anything of the solicitor who is for the late Mrs. Westenra, seal all her papers, and write him tonight. For me, I watch here in the room and in Miss Lucy’s old room all night, and I myself search for what may be. It is not well that her very thoughts go into the hands of strangers.’
“当你找到已故韦斯特拉夫人的律师的任何信息时，请密封她所有的文件，然后今晚写信给他。对我来说，我整晚都在房间里和露西小姐的旧房间里观看，我自己也在寻找可能发生的事情。她的想法落入陌生人手中并不好。

I went on with my part of the work, and in another half hour had found the name and address of Mrs. Westenra’s solicitor and had written to him. All the poor lady’s papers were in order. Explicit directions regarding the place of burial were given. I had hardly sealed the letter, when, to my surprise, Van Helsing walked into the room, saying,
我继续我的工作，又花了半个小时找到了韦斯特拉夫人律师的姓名和地址，并给他写了信。可怜的女士的所有文件都井然有序。给出了有关埋葬地点的明确指示。我刚把信封好，令我惊讶的是，范海辛走进房间，说道：

‘Can I help you friend John? I am free, and if I may, my service is to you.’
“我可以帮助你吗朋友约翰？我是自由的，如果可以的话，我为你服务。

‘Have you got what you looked for?’ I asked.
“你找到你要找的东西了吗？”我问。

To which he replied, ‘I did not look for any specific thing. I only hoped to find, and find I have, all that there was, only some letters and a few memoranda, and a diary new begun. But I have them here, and we shall for the present say nothing of them. I shall see that poor lad tomorrow evening, and, with his sanction, I shall use some.’
他回答说：“我没有寻找任何具体的东西。”我只希望找到，并且找到我拥有的一切，只有一些信件和一些备忘录，以及一本新开始的日记。但我把它们留在这里，我们暂时不谈它们。明天晚上我会去见那个可怜的小伙子，在他的允许下，我会使用一些。

When we had finished the work in hand, he said to me, ‘And now, friend John, I think we may to bed. We want sleep, both you and I, and rest to recuperate. Tomorrow we shall have much to do, but for the tonight there is no need of us. Alas!’
当我们完成手头的工作时，他对我说：‘现在，朋友约翰，我想我们可以睡觉了。你和我都需要睡眠，休息以恢复体力。明天我们还有很多事要做，但今晚不需要我们了。唉！'

Before turning in we went to look at poor Lucy. The undertaker had certainly done his work well, for the room was turned into a small chapelle ardente. There was a wilderness of beautiful white flowers, and death was made as little repulsive as might be. The end of the winding sheet was laid over the face. When the Professor bent over and turned it gently back, we both started at the beauty before us. The tall wax candles showing a sufficient light to note it well. All Lucy’s loveliness had come back to her in death, and the hours that had passed, instead of leaving traces of ‘decay’s effacing fingers’, had but restored the beauty of life, till positively I could not believe my eyes that I was looking at a corpse.
上床睡觉之前，我们去看了可怜的露西。殡葬承办人的工作确实做得很好，因为房间变成了一个热情的小礼拜堂。那里有一片开满美丽白花的荒野，死亡也被尽可能地渲染得不那么令人厌恶。裹布的末端盖在脸上。当教授弯下腰，轻轻地将它转回来时，我们都被眼前的美景惊呆了。高高的蜡烛发出足够的光线，可以很好地注意到它。露西的所有可爱都在死亡中回到了她身上，而过去的时间并没有留下“腐烂的手指消失”的痕迹，而是恢复了生命的美丽，直到我简直不敢相信我所看到的眼睛一具尸体。

The Professor looked sternly grave. He had not loved her as I had, and there was no need for tears in his eyes. He said to me, ‘Remain till I return,’ and left the room. He came back with a handful of wild garlic from the box waiting in the hall, but which had not been opened, and placed the flowers amongst the others on and around the bed. Then he took from his neck, inside his collar, a little gold crucifix, and placed it over the mouth. He restored the sheet to its place, and we came away.
教授表情严肃。他没有像我那样爱她，他的眼里也没有必要流泪。他对我说：“等我回来吧”，然后就离开了房间。他从大厅里等待的盒子里取出一把野蒜回来，但盒子还没有打开，他把这些花和其他花放在床上和床周围。然后他从脖子上的领子里取出一个小金十字架，把它放在嘴上。他把床单放回原处，然后我们就离开了。

I was undressing in my own room, when, with a premonitory tap at the door, he entered, and at once began to speak.
我正在自己的房间里脱衣服，突然有人敲门，他进来了，并立即开始说话。

‘Tomorrow I want you to bring me, before night, a set of post-mortem knives.’
“明天晚上之前，我希望你给我带来一套尸检刀。”

‘Must we make an autopsy?’ I asked.
“我们必须进行尸检吗？”我问道。

‘Yes and no. I want to operate, but not what you think. Let me tell you now, but not a word to another. I want to cut off her head and take out her heart. Ah! You a surgeon, and so shocked! You, whom I have seen with no tremble of hand or heart, do operations of life and death that make the rest shudder. Oh, but I must not forget, my dear friend John, that you loved her, and I have not forgotten it for is I that shall operate, and you must not help. I would like to do it tonight, but for Arthur I must not. He will be free after his father’s funeral tomorrow, and he will want to see her, to see it. Then, when she is coffined ready for the next day, you and I shall come when all sleep. We shall unscrew the coffin lid, and shall do our operation, and then replace all, so that none know, save we alone.’
‘是的，也不是。我想经营，但不是你想的那样。现在让我告诉你，但不要对别人说一句话。我想砍下她的头，取出她的心。啊!你是外科医生，太震惊了！我见过你的手和心都没有颤抖，你所做的生死攸关的事情让其他人不寒而栗。哦，但我不能忘记，我亲爱的朋友约翰，你爱她，我也没有忘记，因为是我来操作，而你不能帮忙。我今晚想这么做，但为了亚瑟我不能这么做。明天父亲的葬礼结束后他就有空了，他会想见她，想见见她。然后，当她第二天的棺材准备好时，你和我就会在大家都睡着的时候来。我们将拧开棺材盖，进行手术，然后将所有东西放回原位，这样除了我们自己之外，没有人知道。

‘But why do it at all? The girl is dead. Why mutilate her poor body without need? And if there is no necessity for a post-mortem and nothing to gain by it, no good to her, to us, to science, to human knowledge, why do it? Without such it is monstrous.’
“但是为什么要这么做呢？女孩死了。为什么毫无必要地残害她可怜的身体？如果没有必要进行尸检，而且尸检也没有什么好处，对她、对我们、对科学、对人类知识都没有好处，那为什么要这么做呢？如果没有这样的东西，那就太可怕了。

For answer he put his hand on my shoulder, and said, with infinite tenderness, ‘Friend John, I pity your poor bleeding heart, and I love you the more because it does so bleed. If I could, I would take on myself the burden that you do bear. But there are things that you know not, but that you shall know, and bless me for knowing, though they are not pleasant things. John, my child, you have been my friend now many years, and yet did you ever know me to do any without good cause? I may err, I am but man, but I believe in all I do. Was it not for these causes that you send for me when the great trouble came? Yes! Were you not amazed, nay horrified, when I would not let Arthur kiss his love, though she was dying, and snatched him away by all my strength? Yes! And yet you saw how she thanked me, with her so beautiful dying eyes, her voice, too, so weak, and she kiss my rough old hand and bless me? Yes! And did you not hear me swear promise to her, that so she closed her eyes grateful? Yes!
作为回答，他把手放在我的肩膀上，带着无限的温柔说道：“朋友约翰，我可怜你可怜的流血的心，我更爱你，因为你的心在流血。”如果可以的话，我愿意承担你所承受的重担。但有些事情你不知道，但你会知道的，并祝福我知道，尽管它们不是令人愉快的事情。约翰，我的孩子，你多年来一直是我的朋友，但你知道我会做一些没有正当理由的事情吗？我可能会犯错，我只是一个人，但我相信我所做的一切。当大麻烦来临时，你派人来找我，难道不是因为这些原因吗？是的！当我不让亚瑟亲吻他的爱人（尽管她快要死了）并用我的全力把他抢走时，你难道不感到惊讶，甚至惊恐吗？是的！然而你看到她如何感谢我，用她那双美丽的垂死的眼睛，她的声音也那么微弱，她亲吻我粗糙的老手并祝福我？是的！而你难道没有听到我向她发誓的承诺，让她感激地闭上眼睛吗？是的！

‘Well, I have good reason now for all I want to do. You have for many years trust me. You have believe me weeks past, when there be things so strange that you might have well doubt. Believe me yet a little, friend John. If you trust me not, then I must tell what I think, and that is not perhaps well. And if I work, as work I shall, no matter trust or no trust, without my friend trust in me, I work with heavy heart and feel, oh so lonely when I want all help and courage that may be!’ He paused a moment and went on solemnly, ‘Friend John, there are strange and terrible days before us. Let us not be two, but one, that so we work to a good end. Will you not have faith in me?’
“好吧，我现在有充分的理由去做我想做的一切。多年来你一直信任我。几周前，当事情如此奇怪以至于你可能会怀疑时，你就相信了我。请相信我一点，朋友约翰。如果你不相信我，那么我就必须说出我的想法，但这也许不太好。如果我工作，我会工作，无论信任与否，如果没有我的朋友对我的信任，我会心情沉重地工作，并感到，哦，当我需要所有的帮助和勇气时，我会感到多么孤独！”他停顿了一下。 ” 此刻，他庄严地继续说道：“约翰朋友，我们面前有奇怪而可怕的日子。让我们不要成为两个人，而是成为一个人，这样我们才能有一个美好的结局。你不相信我吗？

I took his hand, and promised him. I held my door open as he went away, and watched him go to his room and close the door. As I stood without moving, I saw one of the maids pass silently along the passage, she had her back to me, so did not see me, and go into the room where Lucy lay. The sight touched me. Devotion is so rare, and we are so grateful to those who show it unasked to those we love. Here was a poor girl putting aside the terrors which she naturally had of death to go watch alone by the bier of the mistress whom she loved, so that the poor clay might not be lonely till laid to eternal rest.
我拉着他的手，向他保证。当他离开时，我把门打开，看着他走进自己的房间，然后关上门。我站在原地一动不动，只见一名女仆默默地从过道上走过，她背对着我，没有看见我，就走进了露西躺着的房间。这景象触动了我。奉献是如此罕见，我们非常感谢那些主动向我们所爱的人表达奉献的人。这是一个可怜的女孩，她抛开了对死亡的恐惧，独自守在她所爱的情妇的灵柩旁，这样可怜的泥土就不会孤单，直到永远安息。

I must have slept long and soundly, for it was broad daylight when Van Helsing waked me by coming into my room. He came over to my bedside and said, ‘You need not trouble about the knives. We shall not do it.’
我一定睡得又长又沉，因为当范海辛走进我的房间叫醒我时，已经是大白天了。他走到我床边说：‘你不用为刀子烦恼。我们不会这样做。

‘Why not?’ I asked. For his solemnity of the night before had greatly impressed me.
“为什么不呢？”我问。因为他前一天晚上的严肃给我留下了深刻的印象。

‘Because,’ he said sternly, ‘it is too late, or too early. See!’ Here he held up the little golden crucifix.
“因为，”他严厉地说，“要么太晚了，要么太早了。”看！”他举起那个金色的小十字架。

‘This was stolen in the night.’
“这是夜里被偷的。”

‘How stolen, ‘I asked in wonder, ‘since you have it now?’
“怎么被偷了，”我惊奇地问道，“既然你现在有了它？”

‘Because I get it back from the worthless wretch who stole it, from the woman who robbed the dead and the living. Her punishment will surely come, but not through me. She knew not altogether what she did, and thus unknowing, she only stole. Now we must wait.’ He went away on the word, leaving me with a new mystery to think of, a new puzzle to grapple with.
“因为我从那个偷了它的无用之徒那里，从那个抢劫了死者和生者的女人那里，把它拿回来了。”她的惩罚肯定会到来，但不是通过我。她并不完全知道自己做了什么，因此在不知情的情况下，她只是偷窃。现在我们必须等待。”他说完就走了，给我留下了一个新的谜团需要思考，一个新的谜题需要解决。

The forenoon was a dreary time, but at noon the solicitor came, Mr. Marquand, of Wholeman, Sons, Marquand & Lidderdale. He was very genial and very appreciative of what we had done, and took off our hands all cares as to details. During lunch he told us that Mrs. Westenra had for some time expected sudden death from her heart, and had put her affairs in absolute order. He informed us that, with the exception of a certain entailed property of Lucy’s father which now, in default of direct issue, went back to a distant branch of the family, the whole estate, real and personal, was left absolutely to Arthur Holmwood. When he had told us so much he went on,
上午是一段沉闷的时光，但中午，律师来了，来自 Wholeman, Sons, Marquand & Lidderdale 的马昆德先生。他非常和蔼可亲，非常欣赏我们所做的一切，并让我们不再关心细节。午餐时，他告诉我们，韦斯特拉夫人有一段时间从内心深处预计会突然死亡，并将她的事务安排得井井有条。他告诉我们，除了露西父亲的某些继承财产（现在由于没有直接继承权而回到了家族的远方分支）之外，整个财产，无论是真实的还是个人的，都完全留给了阿瑟·霍姆伍德。当他告诉我们这么多之后，他继续说道：

‘Frankly we did our best to prevent such a testamentary disposition, and pointed out certain contingencies that might leave her daughter either penniless or not so free as she should be to act regarding a matrimonial alliance. Indeed, we pressed the matter so far that we almost came into collision, for she asked us if we were or were not prepared to carry out her wishes. Of course, we had then no alternative but to accept. We were right in principle, and ninety-nine times out of a hundred we should have proved, by the logic of events, the accuracy of our judgment.
“坦率地说，我们尽最大努力阻止这种遗嘱处置，并指出了某些可能导致她女儿身无分文或无法自由地就婚姻联盟采取行动的意外情况。事实上，我们在这个问题上追得太紧，以至于我们几乎发生了冲突，因为她问我们是否准备好实现她的愿望。当然，我们当时也没有办法，只能接受。我们原则上是正确的，一百次中有九十九次我们应该通过事件的逻辑来证明我们判断的准确性。

‘Frankly, however, I must admit that in this case any other form of disposition would have rendered impossible the carrying out of her wishes. For by her predeceasing her daughter the latter would have come into possession of the property, and, even had she only survived her mother by five minutes, her property would, in case there were no will, and a will was a practical impossibility in such a case, have been treated at her decease as under intestacy. In which case Lord Godalming, though so dear a friend, would have had no claim in the world. And the inheritors, being remote, would not be likely to abandon their just rights, for sentimental reasons regarding an entire stranger. I assure you, my dear sirs, I am rejoiced at the result, perfectly rejoiced.’
“然而，坦率地说，我必须承认，在这种情况下，任何其他形式的处置都会使她的愿望不可能实现。因为如果她先去世，她的女儿就会拥有该财产，即使她只比她母亲活了五分钟，如果没有遗嘱，她的财产也会拥有，而在这种情况下，遗嘱实际上是不可能的。在她去世时，她被视为无遗嘱。在这种情况下，戈达尔明勋爵虽然是一位如此亲爱的朋友，但却在这个世界上没有任何权利。而继承人，由于地处偏远，不太可能因为对一个陌生人的感情原因而放弃自己的正当权利。我向你们保证，亲爱的先生们，我对这个结果感到高兴，非常高兴。”

He was a good fellow, but his rejoicing at the one little part, in which he was officially interested, of so great a tragedy, was an object-lesson in the limitations of sympathetic understanding.
他是一个好人，但他对如此巨大的悲剧中他官方感兴趣的一小部分感到高兴，这是同情理解的局限性的一个客观教训。

He did not remain long, but said he would look in later in the day and see Lord Godalming. His coming, however, had been a certain comfort to us, since it assured us that we should not have to dread hostile criticism as to any of our acts. Arthur was expected at five o’clock, so a little before that time we visited the death chamber. It was so in very truth, for now both mother and daughter lay in it. The undertaker, true to his craft, had made the best display he could of his goods, and there was a mortuary air about the place that lowered our spirits at once.
他没有停留太久，但说他会在当天晚些时候去看望戈达尔明勋爵。然而，他的到来对我们来说是一种安慰，因为它向我们保证，我们不必担心对我们的任何行为提出敌意的批评。预计阿瑟将在五点钟到达，所以在那之前我们就参观了死亡室。确实如此，现在母女俩都躺在里面。殡葬承办人忠于自己的技艺，尽可能地展示了他的物品，整个地方弥漫着停尸房的气氛，我们的情绪一下子就低了下来。

Van Helsing ordered the former arrangement to be adhered to, explaining that, as Lord Godalming was coming very soon, it would be less harrowing to his feelings to see all that was left of his fiancee quite alone.
范海辛命令遵守之前的安排，并解释说，由于戈达尔明勋爵很快就会到来，看到未婚妻只剩下孤零零的人，他的心情不会那么痛苦。

The undertaker seemed shocked at his own stupidity and exerted himself to restore things to the condition in which we left them the night before, so that when Arthur came such shocks to his feelings as we could avoid were saved.
殡仪员似乎对自己的愚蠢感到震惊，并竭尽全力将东西恢复到我们前一天晚上离开时的状态，这样当亚瑟到来时，我们就可以避免对他的感情造成的震惊。

Poor fellow! He looked desperately sad and broken. Even his stalwart manhood seemed to have shrunk somewhat under the strain of his much-tried emotions. He had, I knew, been very genuinely and devotedly attached to his father, and to lose him, and at such a time, was a bitter blow to him. With me he was warm as ever, and to Van Helsing he was sweetly courteous. But I could not help seeing that there was some constraint with him. The professor noticed it too, and motioned me to bring him upstairs. I did so, and left him at the door of the room, as I felt he would like to be quite alone with her, but he took my arm and led me in, saying huskily,
可怜的家伙！他看起来极度悲伤和破碎。就连他那刚毅的男子气概，在久经考验的情绪压力下，似乎都有些萎缩了。我知道，他对他的父亲非常真诚和忠诚，而在这个时候失去他，对他来说是一个沉重的打击。他对我一如既往地热情，对范海辛则彬彬有礼。但我不禁看出他有些拘谨。教授也注意到了，示意我带他上楼。我这样做了，把他留在了房间门口，因为我觉得他想单独和她在一起，但他拉着我的手臂，带我进去，沙哑地说，

‘You loved her too, old fellow. She told me all about it, and there was no friend had a closer place in her heart than you. I don’t know how to thank you for all you have done for her. I can’t think yet …’
“你也爱她，老伙计。她把这一切都告诉了我，没有哪个朋友比你在她心里的地位更近了。我不知道如何感谢你为她所做的一切。我还想不通……”

Here he suddenly broke down, and threw his arms round my shoulders and laid his head on my breast, crying, ‘Oh, Jack! Jack! What shall I do? The whole of life seems gone from me all at once, and there is nothing in the wide world for me to live for.’
说到这里，他突然崩溃了，用双臂搂住我的肩膀，把头靠在我的胸前，哭喊着：“哦，杰克！”杰克！我该怎么办？整个生命似乎一下子就离我而去了，广阔的世界里没有什么可以让我活下去的。

I comforted him as well as I could. In such cases men do not need much expression. A grip of the hand, the tightening of an arm over the shoulder, a sob in unison, are expressions of sympathy dear to a man’s heart. I stood still and silent till his sobs died away, and then I said softly to him, ‘Come and look at her.’
我尽力安慰他。在这种情况下，男人不需要太多的表达。握紧一只手，将一只手臂紧紧地搭在肩膀上，齐声抽泣，这些都是男人内心所珍视的同情的表达。我静静地站着，直到他的抽泣声消失，然后我轻声对他说：“过来看看她。”

Together we moved over to the bed, and I lifted the lawn from her face. God! How beautiful she was. Every hour seemed to be enhancing her loveliness. It frightened and amazed me somewhat. And as for Arthur, he fell to trembling, and finally was shaken with doubt as with an ague. At last, after a long pause, he said to me in a faint whisper, ‘Jack, is she really dead?’
我们一起走到床边，我把草坪从她脸上掀开。上帝！她多么美丽啊。每一个小时似乎都在增加她的可爱度。这让我有些害怕和惊讶。至于亚瑟，他浑身发抖，最后像疟疾一样因怀疑而动摇。最后，在长时间的停顿之后，他用微弱的耳语对我说道：“杰克，她真的死了吗？”

I assured him sadly that it was so, and went on to suggest, for I felt that such a horrible doubt should not have life for a moment longer than I could help, that it often happened that after death faces become softened and even resolved into their youthful beauty, that this was especially so when death had been preceded by any acute or prolonged suffering. I seemed to quite do away with any doubt, and after kneeling beside the couch for a while and looking at her lovingly and long, he turned aside. I told him that that must be goodbye, as the coffin had to be prepared, so he went back and took her dead hand in his and kissed it, and bent over and kissed her forehead. He came away, fondly looking back over his shoulder at her as he came.
我悲伤地向他保证确实如此，并继续建议，因为我觉得这种可怕的怀疑不应该在我无法帮助的情况下持续太久，经常发生的情况是，死后面孔变得柔和，甚至决心成为他们年轻时的美丽，当死亡之前经历过任何急性或长期的痛苦时尤其如此。我似乎完全消除了任何疑虑，在沙发旁边跪了一会儿，深情地看了她一会儿后，他转过身去。我告诉他，那必须是再见了，因为棺材必须准备好，所以他回去，握住她死去的手，亲吻它，弯下腰，亲吻她的额头。他走开时，回头深情地看着她。

I left him in the drawing room, and told Van Helsing that he had said goodbye, so the latter went to the kitchen to tell the undertaker’s men to proceed with the preparations and to screw up the coffin. When he came out of the room again I told him of Arthur’s question, and he replied, ‘I am not surprised. Just now I doubted for a moment myself!’
我把他留在客厅，告诉范海辛他已经告别了，于是后者去了厨房，告诉殡仪馆的人继续准备工作，把棺材搞砸。当他再次走出房间时，我告诉他亚瑟的问题，他回答说：“我并不感到惊讶。”我刚才也怀疑过自己！

We all dined together, and I could see that poor Art was trying to make the best of things. Van Helsing had been silent all dinner time, but when we had lit our cigars he said, ‘Lord …’ but Arthur interrupted him.
我们一起吃饭，我看得出来可怜的阿特正在努力充分利用一切。范海辛整个晚餐时间都保持沉默，但当我们点燃雪茄时，他说：“主啊……”但亚瑟打断了他。

‘No, no, not that, for God’s sake! Not yet at any rate. Forgive me, sir. I did not mean to speak offensively. It is only because my loss is so recent.’
“不，不，不是那样，看在上帝的份上！无论如何还没有。请原谅我，先生。我无意冒犯。这只是因为我的损失是最近发生的。

The Professor answered very sweetly, ‘I only used that name because I was in doubt. I must not call you ‘Mr.’ and I have grown to love you, yes, my dear boy, to love you, as Arthur.’
教授很甜蜜地回答：“我只是因为怀疑才用这个名字。”我不能叫你‘先生’，我已经爱你了，是的，我亲爱的孩子，爱你，就像亚瑟一样。”

Arthur held out his hand, and took the old man’s warmly. ‘Call me what you will,’ he said. ‘I hope I may always have the title of a friend. And let me say that I am at a loss for words to thank you for your goodness to my poor dear.’ He paused a moment, and went on, ‘I know that she understood your goodness even better than I do. And if I was rude or in any way wanting at that time you acted so, you remember,’—the Professor nodded—‘You must forgive me.’
亚瑟伸出手，温暖地握住了老人的手。 “随便你怎么称呼我，”他说。 ‘我希望我能永远拥有朋友的称号。让我说，我无法用言语来感谢你对我可怜的亲爱的人的善良。”他停顿了一下，然后继续说，“我知道她比我更理解你的善良。如果我当时粗鲁或有任何不足，你就这样做了，你记得，”——教授点点头——“你必须原谅我。”

He answered with a grave kindness, ‘I know it was hard for you to quite trust me then, for to trust such violence needs to understand, and I take it that you do not, that you cannot, trust me now, for you do not yet understand. And there may be more times when I shall want you to trust when you cannot, and may not, and must not yet understand. But the time will come when your trust shall be whole and complete in me, and when you shall understand as though the sunlight himself shone through. Then you shall bless me from first to last for your own sake, and for the sake of others, and for her dear sake to whom I swore to protect.’
他以严肃的善意回答道：“我知道你当时很难完全信任我，因为信任这种暴力需要理解，我认为你不相信，你不能，现在相信我，因为你知道还不明白。也许有更多的时候，当你不能、也可能不会、也必须还不明白时，我会希望你相信。但总有一天，你会完全信任我，那时你就会明白，就像阳光本身照耀过来一样。然后，为了你自己，为了别人，为了我发誓要保护的亲爱的她，你应该从始至终祝福我。

‘And indeed, indeed, sir,’ said Arthur warmly. ‘I shall in all ways trust you. I know and believe you have a very noble heart, and you are Jack’s friend, and you were hers. You shall do what you like.’
“确实，确实，先生，”亚瑟热情地说。 ‘我将在各方面相信你。我知道并相信你有一颗非常高尚的心，你是杰克的朋友，也是她的朋友。你应该做你喜欢做的事。

The Professor cleared his throat a couple of times, as though about to speak, and finally said, ‘May I ask you something now?’
教授清了几次喉咙，似乎要说话，最后说道：“我现在可以问你一件事吗？”

‘Certainly.’
'当然。'

‘You know that Mrs. Westenra left you all her property?’
“你知道韦斯特拉夫人把她所有的财产都留给了你吗？”

‘No, poor dear. I never thought of it.’
‘不，可怜的亲爱的。我从来没有想过。

‘And as it is all yours, you have a right to deal with it as you will. I want you to give me permission to read all Miss Lucy’s papers and letters. Believe me, it is no idle curiosity. I have a motive of which, be sure, she would have approved. I have them all here. I took them before we knew that all was yours, so that no strange hand might touch them, no strange eye look through words into her soul. I shall keep them, if I may. Even you may not see them yet, but I shall keep them safe. No word shall be lost, and in the good time I shall give them back to you. It is a hard thing that I ask, but you will do it, will you not, for Lucy’s sake?’
‘既然它都是你的，你就有权按照你的意愿处理它。我希望你允许我阅读露西小姐的所有文件和信件。相信我，这并不是无用的好奇心。当然，我有一个动机，她会同意的。我这里都有。在我们知道一切都是你的之前，我就把它们拿走了，这样就没有陌生的手可以碰触它们，没有陌生的眼睛通过文字窥视她的灵魂。如果可以的话，我会保留它们。即使你还看不到他们，但我会保证他们的安全。任何消息都不会丢失，到了适当的时候我会把它们还给你。我要求的事情很难，但看在露西的份上，你会这么做的，不是吗？

Arthur spoke out heartily, like his old self, ‘Dr. Van Helsing, you may do what you will. I feel that in saying this I am doing what my dear one would have approved. I shall not trouble you with questions till the time comes.’
亚瑟像以前的自己一样，由衷地说道：“博士。”范海辛，你可以做你想做的事。我觉得我说这句话是在做我亲爱的人会认可的事情。到时候我不会用问题来打扰你。

The old Professor stood up as he said solemnly, ‘And you are right. There will be pain for us all, but it will not be all pain, nor will this pain be the last. We and you too, you most of all, dear boy, will have to pass through the bitter water before we reach the sweet. But we must be brave of heart and unselfish, and do our duty, and all will be well!’
老教授站了起来，郑重道：“你说得对。”我们所有人都会经历痛苦，但这不会是全部痛苦，也不会是最后一次痛苦。我们和你，最重要的是你，亲爱的孩子，在我们到达甘甜之前，必须先经历苦水。但我们必须勇敢无私，尽到自己的责任，一切都会好起来的！”

I slept on a sofa in Arthur’s room that night. Van Helsing did not go to bed at all. He went to and fro, as if patroling the house, and was never out of sight of the room where Lucy lay in her coffin, strewn with the wild garlic flowers, which sent through the odour of lily and rose, a heavy, overpowering smell into the night.
那天晚上我睡在亚瑟房间的沙发上。范海辛根本没有去睡觉。他来来回回，仿佛在屋子里巡逻，始终没有离开过露西棺材里的房间，那里撒满了野蒜花，散发出百合和玫瑰的香气，浓重的令人难以忍受的气味。到深夜。

MINA HARKER’S JOURNAL
米娜·哈克的日记

22 September.—In the train to Exeter. Jonathan sleeping. It seems only yesterday that the last entry was made, and yet how much between then, in Whitby and all the world before me, Jonathan away and no news of him, and now, married to Jonathan, Jonathan a solicitor, a partner, rich, master of his business, Mr. Hawkins dead and buried, and Jonathan with another attack that may harm him. Some day he may ask me about it. Down it all goes. I am rusty in my shorthand, see what unexpected prosperity does for us, so it may be as well to freshen it up again with an exercise anyhow.
9 月 22 日——在前往埃克塞特的火车上。乔纳森在睡觉。似乎就在昨天，最后一个条目才完成，然而从那时起，在惠特比和我面前的整个世界，乔纳森离开了，没有他的消息，而现在，乔纳森嫁给了乔纳森，成为一名律师、合伙人、富有的人。 ，他的生意的主人，霍金斯先生死了并被埋葬，乔纳森再次受到可能伤害他的攻击。有一天他可能会问我这件事。一切都会过去。我的速记已经生疏了，看看意外的繁荣会给我们带来什么，所以无论如何，最好通过练习来重新刷新它。

The service was very simple and very solemn. There were only ourselves and the servants there, one or two old friends of his from Exeter, his London agent, and a gentleman representing Sir John Paxton, the President of the Incorporated Law Society. Jonathan and I stood hand in hand, and we felt that our best and dearest friend was gone from us.
仪式非常简单，也非常隆重。那里只有我们自己和仆人，还有他从埃克塞特来的一两个老朋友、他的伦敦代理人，以及代表联合律师协会主席约翰·帕克斯顿爵士的一位绅士。乔纳森和我手牵手站在一起，我们感到我们最好、最亲爱的朋友已经离我们而去了。

We came back to town quietly, taking a bus to Hyde Park Corner. Jonathan thought it would interest me to go into the Row for a while, so we sat down. But there were very few people there, and it was sad-looking and desolate to see so many empty chairs. It made us think of the empty chair at home. So we got up and walked down Piccadilly. Jonathan was holding me by the arm, the way he used to in the old days before I went to school. I felt it very improper, for you can’t go on for some years teaching etiquette and decorum to other girls without the pedantry of it biting into yourself a bit. But it was Jonathan, and he was my husband, and we didn’t know anybody who saw us, and we didn’t care if they did, so on we walked. I was looking at a very beautiful girl, in a big cart-wheel hat, sitting in a victoria outside Guiliano’s, when I felt Jonathan clutch my arm so tight that he hurt me, and he said under his breath, ‘My God!’
我们静静地回到城里，乘公共汽车去海德公园角。乔纳森认为我有兴趣去那条街待一会儿，所以我们坐下来。但那里人很少，看到这么多空椅子，显得悲伤而荒凉。这让我们想起了家里的空椅子。于是我们起身沿着皮卡迪利大街走去。乔纳森挽着我的手臂，就像我上学前他以前那样。我觉得这很不合适，因为你不可能连续几年向其他女孩传授礼仪和礼仪，而不会让自己受到一点迂腐的影响。但这是乔纳森，他是我的丈夫，我们不认识任何人看到我们，我们不在乎他们是否看到我们，所以我们继续走。我正在看着一个非常漂亮的女孩，戴着一顶大车轮帽子，坐在吉里亚诺外面的维多利亚车里，这时我感到乔纳森紧紧地抓着我的手臂，以至于伤害了我，他低声说：“我的上帝！”

I am always anxious about Jonathan, for I fear that some nervous fit may upset him again. So I turned to him quickly, and asked him what it was that disturbed him.
我总是为乔纳森感到焦虑，因为我担心一些紧张的情绪可能会再次让他心烦意乱。于是我迅速转向他，问他是什么让他不安。

He was very pale, and his eyes seemed bulging out as, half in terror and half in amazement, he gazed at a tall, thin man, with a beaky nose and black moustache and pointed beard, who was also observing the pretty girl. He was looking at her so hard that he did not see either of us, and so I had a good view of him. His face was not a good face. It was hard, and cruel, and sensual, and big white teeth, that looked all the whiter because his lips were so red, were pointed like an animal’s. Jonathan kept staring at him, till I was afraid he would notice. I feared he might take it ill, he looked so fierce and nasty. I asked Jonathan why he was disturbed, and he answered, evidently thinking that I knew as much about it as he did, ‘Do you see who it is?’
他脸色十分苍白，双目似乎凸出，半是惊恐半是惊愕地看着一个高高瘦瘦、鹰钩鼻、黑胡子、尖须的男人，他也在打量着漂亮的女孩。他用力地看着她，以至于没有看到我们任何一个人，所以我对他看得很清楚。他的脸色并不好。它坚硬、残忍、性感，大而白的牙齿，因为嘴唇那么红而显得更白，尖得像动物的牙齿。乔纳森一直盯着他，直到我担心他会注意到。我担心他会生病，他看起来如此凶猛和令人讨厌。我问乔纳森为什么感到不安，他回答说，显然认为我和他一样了解这件事，“你看到那人是谁了吗？”

‘No, dear,’ I said. ‘I don’t know him, who is it?’ His answer seemed to shock and thrill me, for it was said as if he did not know that it was me, Mina, to whom he was speaking. ‘It is the man himself!’
“不，亲爱的，”我说。 “我不认识他，他是谁？”他的回答似乎让我感到震惊和兴奋，因为他似乎不知道他正在对我，米娜说话。 “就是这个人本人！”

The poor dear was evidently terrified at something, very greatly terrified. I do believe that if he had not had me to lean on and to support him he would have sunk down. He kept staring. A man came out of the shop with a small parcel, and gave it to the lady, who then drove off. The dark man kept his eyes fixed on her, and when the carriage moved up Piccadilly he followed in the same direction, and hailed a hansom. Jonathan kept looking after him, and said, as if to himself,
可怜的亲爱的显然对某件事感到害怕，非常害怕。我相信，如果没有我的依靠和支持，他就会沉沦下去。他一直盯着。一名男子拿着一个小包裹从商店里出来，交给了那位女士，然后她就开车走了。黑人的眼睛一直盯着她，当马车沿着皮卡迪利大街行驶时，他也跟着朝同一个方向走去，招呼了一辆双轮马车。乔纳森一直看着他，仿佛自言自语地说：

‘I believe it is the Count, but he has grown young. My God, if this be so! Oh, my God! My God! If only I knew! If only I knew!’ He was distressing himself so much that I feared to keep his mind on the subject by asking him any questions, so I remained silent. I drew away quietly, and he, holding my arm, came easily. We walked a little further, and then went in and sat for a while in the Green Park. It was a hot day for autumn, and there was a comfortable seat in a shady place. After a few minutes’ staring at nothing, Jonathan’s eyes closed, and he went quickly into a sleep, with his head on my shoulder. I thought it was the best thing for him, so did not disturb him. In about twenty minutes he woke up, and said to me quite cheerfully,
“我相信是伯爵，但他已经年轻了。天啊，如果真是这样的话！我的天啊！我的上帝！要是我知道就好了！如果我知道就好了！’他太让自己痛苦了，我不敢问他任何问题，让他把注意力集中在这个问题上，所以我保持沉默。我悄悄地退开，他挽着我的手臂，轻松地走了过来。我们又走了一段路，然后进去在绿园里坐了一会儿。秋天的天气很热，在阴凉的地方有一个舒适的座位。看了几分钟之后，乔纳森闭上了眼睛，很快就睡着了，头靠在我的肩膀上。我觉得这对他来说是最好的事情，所以没有打扰他。大约二十分钟后，他醒了，很高兴地对我说：

‘Why, Mina, have I been asleep! Oh, do forgive me for being so rude. Come, and we’ll have a cup of tea somewhere.’
“为什么，米娜，我睡着了！哦，请原谅我如此无礼。来吧，我们找个地方喝杯茶。”

He had evidently forgotten all about the dark stranger, as in his illness he had forgotten all that this episode had reminded him of. I don’t like this lapsing into forgetfulness. It may make or continue some injury to the brain. I must not ask him, for fear I shall do more harm than good, but I must somehow learn the facts of his journey abroad. The time is come, I fear, when I must open the parcel, and know what is written. Oh, Jonathan, you will, I know, forgive me if I do wrong, but it is for your own dear sake.
显然，他已经完全忘记了那个黑暗的陌生人，就像在生病期间他忘记了这一事件让他想起的一切一样。我不喜欢这样陷入健忘。它可能会对大脑造成或持续一些伤害。我不能问他，因为担心我会弊大于利，但我必须以某种方式了解他出国旅行的事实。我担心，到了我必须打开包裹并知道上面写的是什么的时候了。哦，乔纳森，我知道，如果我做错了，你会原谅我的，但这是为了你自己。

Later.—A sad homecoming in every way, the house empty of the dear soul who was so good to us. Jonathan still pale and dizzy under a slight relapse of his malady, and now a telegram from Van Helsing, whoever he may be. ‘You will be grieved to hear that Mrs. Westenra died five days ago, and that Lucy died the day before yesterday. They were both buried today.’
后来——从各方面来看，这都是一次悲伤的归来，房子里空无对我们如此好的亲爱的灵魂。乔纳森因病情轻微复发而脸色苍白，头晕目眩，现在收到了范海辛发来的电报，无论他是谁。 “得知韦斯特拉夫人五天前去世，露西前天去世，您一定会感到悲伤。他们今天都被埋葬了。”

Oh, what a wealth of sorrow in a few words! Poor Mrs. Westenra! Poor Lucy! Gone, gone, never to return to us! And poor, poor Arthur, to have lost such a sweetness out of his life! God help us all to bear our troubles.
唉，几句话就能表达出多么丰富的悲伤啊！可怜的韦斯特拉夫人！可怜的露西！走了，走了，再也不会回到我们身边了！可怜的、可怜的亚瑟，竟然从他的生活中失去了这样的甜蜜！愿上帝帮助我们所有人承担我们的困难。

DR. SEWARD’S DIARY-CONT.
博士。苏厄德的日记（续）

22 September.—It is all over. Arthur has gone back to Ring, and has taken Quincey Morris with him. What a fine fellow is Quincey! I believe in my heart of hearts that he suffered as much about Lucy’s death as any of us, but he bore himself through it like a moral Viking. If America can go on breeding men like that, she will be a power in the world indeed. Van Helsing is lying down, having a rest preparatory to his journey. He goes to Amsterdam tonight, but says he returns tomorrow night, that he only wants to make some arrangements which can only be made personally. He is to stop with me then, if he can. He says he has work to do in London which may take him some time. Poor old fellow! I fear that the strain of the past week has broken down even his iron strength. All the time of the burial he was, I could see, putting some terrible restraint on himself. When it was all over, we were standing beside Arthur, who, poor fellow, was speaking of his part in the operation where his blood had been transfused to his Lucy’s veins. I could see Van Helsing’s face grow white and purple by turns. Arthur was saying that he felt since then as if they two had been really married, and that she was his wife in the sight of God. None of us said a word of the other operations, and none of us ever shall. Arthur and Quincey went away together to the station, and Van Helsing and I came on here. The moment we were alone in the carriage he gave way to a regular fit of hysterics. He has denied to me since that it was hysterics, and insisted that it was only his sense of humor asserting itself under very terrible conditions. He laughed till he cried, and I had to draw down the blinds lest any one should see us and misjudge. And then he cried, till he laughed again, and laughed and cried together, just as a woman does. I tried to be stern with him, as one is to a woman under the circumstances, but it had no effect. Men and women are so different in manifestations of nervous strength or weakness! Then when his face grew grave and stern again I asked him why his mirth, and why at such a time. His reply was in a way characteristic of him, for it was logical and forceful and mysterious. He said,
9 月 22 日——一切都结束了。亚瑟带着昆西·莫里斯回到了环城。昆西真是个好人啊！我从内心深处相信，他和我们任何人一样，因露西的死而遭受了同样的痛苦，但他像一个有道德的维京人一样经历了这一切。如果美国能够继续培养这样的男人，她确实将成为世界强国。范海辛躺着休息，为他的旅程做准备。他今晚要去阿姆斯特丹，但说他明天晚上就回来，他只是想做一些只能亲自做的安排。如果可以的话，他要和我一起停下来。他说他在伦敦还有工作要做，这可能需要一些时间。可怜的老家伙！我担心过去一周的压力甚至已经削弱了他钢铁般的力量。我看得出来，在埋葬的整个过程中，他都对自己施加了某种可怕的束缚。当一切结束后，我们站在亚瑟旁边，他，可怜的家伙，正在谈论他在手术中所扮演的角色，他的血液被输到了露西的静脉中。我看到范海辛的脸色时变时白时变紫。亚瑟说，从那时起他就感觉他们两个真的结婚了，她是上帝眼中他的妻子。我们谁都没有对其他行动说过一句话，也永远不会。阿瑟和昆西一起去了车站，范海辛和我来到了这里。当我们独自一人坐在车厢里时，他就经常歇斯底里。此后他一直向我否认这是歇斯底里症，并坚称这只是他在非常可怕的条件下表现出的幽默感。他笑到哭，我不得不拉下百叶窗，以免有人看到我们并做出错误判断。 然后他哭了，直到他又笑了，一起笑，一起哭，就像女人一样。我试图对他采取严厉的态度，就像在这种情况下对女人那样，但没有效果。男人和女人在神经强弱的表现上是如此不同！然后，当他的脸色再次变得严肃起来时，我问他为什么这么高兴，为什么在这个时候。他的回答颇有他的特色，因为它合乎逻辑、有力而神秘。 他说，

‘Ah, you don’t comprehend, friend John. Do not think that I am not sad, though I laugh. See, I have cried even when the laugh did choke me. But no more think that I am all sorry when I cry, for the laugh he come just the same. Keep it always with you that laughter who knock at your door and say, ‘May I come in?’ is not true laughter. No! He is a king, and he come when and how he like. He ask no person, he choose no time of suitability. He say, ‘I am here.’ Behold, in example I grieve my heart out for that so sweet young girl. I give my blood for her, though I am old and worn. I give my time, my skill, my sleep. I let my other sufferers want that she may have all. And yet I can laugh at her very grave, laugh when the clay from the spade of the sexton drop upon her coffin and say ‘Thud, thud!’ to my heart, till it send back the blood from my cheek. My heart bleed for that poor boy, that dear boy, so of the age of mine own boy had I been so blessed that he live, and with his hair and eyes the same.
“啊，你不明白，约翰朋友。别以为我不悲伤，虽然我笑了。看，即使笑声让我窒息，我也哭了。但当我哭泣时，不再认为我很抱歉，因为他同样会笑。永远记住，敲你门说“我可以进来吗？”的笑声并不是真正的笑声。不！他是国王，他想什么时候来就什么时候来，以什么方式来。他不问任何人，他不选择合适的时间。他说：“我在这里。”看哪，我为那个如此可爱的年轻女孩感到悲伤。我为她献出我的鲜血，尽管我已经老了，疲惫不堪。我奉献我的时间、我的技能、我的睡眠。我让其他患者希望她能拥有一切。然而，我却可以嘲笑她的坟墓，当教堂司事铲子上的泥土落在她的棺材上时，我可以笑，并对我的心说“咚咚，咚咚！”，直到它从我脸颊上流回血。我的心为那个可怜的男孩、那个亲爱的男孩流血，所以在我自己的男孩这个年纪，我多么幸运他能活下来，而且他的头发和眼睛也一样。

‘There, you know now why I love him so. And yet when he say things that touch my husband-heart to the quick, and make my father-heart yearn to him as to no other man, not even you, friend John, for we are more level in experiences than father and son, yet even at such a moment King Laugh he come to me and shout and bellow in my ear,‘Here I am! Here I am!’ till the blood come dance back and bring some of the sunshine that he carry with him to my cheek. Oh, friend John, it is a strange world, a sad world, a world full of miseries, and woes, and troubles. And yet when King Laugh come, he make them all dance to the tune he play. Bleeding hearts, and dry bones of the churchyard, and tears that burn as they fall, all dance together to the music that he make with that smileless mouth of him. And believe me, friend John, that he is good to come, and kind. Ah, we men and women are like ropes drawn tight with strain that pull us different ways. Then tears come, and like the rain on the ropes, they brace us up, until perhaps the strain become too great, and we break. But King Laugh he come like the sunshine, and he ease off the strain again, and we bear to go on with our labor, what it may be.’
‘好了，你现在知道我为什么这么爱他了。然而，当他说的话触动了我丈夫的心，让我父亲的心向往他，就像对其他人一样，甚至你，朋友约翰，因为我们在经验上比父子更平等，然而，即使在这样的时刻，笑王也会来到我身边，在我耳边大喊大叫：“我在这里！”我在这里！”直到血液重新舞动起来，将他随身携带的一些阳光带到我的脸颊上。哦，朋友约翰，这是一个奇怪的世界，一个悲伤的世界，一个充满痛苦、痛苦和烦恼的世界。然而，当笑王到来时，他让他们都随着他演奏的曲子跳舞。流血的心、教堂墓地里干枯的骨头、以及坠落时燃烧的泪水，都随着他那张无笑的嘴所奏出的音乐一起跳舞。相信我，约翰朋友，他很高兴来，而且很友善。啊，我们男人和女人就像被拉紧的绳子，以不同的方式拉着我们。然后眼泪就流下来了，就像绳子上的雨水一样，它们支撑着我们，直到也许压力变得太大，我们崩溃了。但笑王来了，就像阳光一样，他再次减轻了压力，我们必须继续我们的劳动，不管它是什么。

I did not like to wound him by pretending not to see his idea, but as I did not yet understand the cause of his laughter, I asked him. As he answered me his face grew stern, and he said in quite a different tone,
我不想假装没看到他的想法而伤害他，但由于我还不明白他笑的原因，所以我问了他。当他回答我时，他的脸色变得严肃起来，用一种截然不同的语气说道：

‘Oh, it was the grim irony of it all, this so lovely lady garlanded with flowers, that looked so fair as life, till one by one we wondered if she were truly dead, she laid in that so fine marble house in that lonely churchyard, where rest so many of her kin, laid there with the mother who loved her, and whom she loved, and that sacred bell going ‘Toll! Toll! Toll!’ so sad and slow, and those holy men, with the white garments of the angel, pretending to read books, and yet all the time their eyes never on the page, and all of us with the bowed head. And all for what? She is dead, so! Is it not?’
“哦，这一切都是残酷的讽刺，这位如此可爱的女士戴着花环，看起来像生命一样美丽，直到我们一一怀疑她是否真的死了，她躺在那个孤独的那座如此精美的大理石房子里教堂墓地里安息着她的许多亲人，长眠着爱她、她所爱的母亲，那神圣的钟声正在敲响！收费！钟声！”如此悲伤和缓慢，那些身穿天使白衣的圣人假装在读书，但他们的眼睛始终没有在书页上，而我们所有人都低着头。而这一切又是为了什么呢？她死了，所以！不是吗？

‘Well, for the life of me, Professor,’ I said, ‘I can’t see anything to laugh at in all that. Why, your expression makes it a harder puzzle than before. But even if the burial service was comic, what about poor Art and his trouble? Why his heart was simply breaking.’
“好吧，教授，”我说，“我看不出这一切有什么好笑的。”哎呀，你的表情让这个谜题变得比以前更难了。但即使葬礼很搞笑，那么可怜的阿特和他的麻烦又如何呢？为什么他的心都碎了。

‘Just so. Said he not that the transfusion of his blood to her veins had made her truly his bride?’
‘就是这样。他不是说他的血输到她的血管里让她真正成为了他的新娘吗？

‘Yes, and it was a sweet and comforting idea for him.’
“是的，这对他来说是一个甜蜜而令人欣慰的想法。”

‘Quite so. But there was a difficulty, friend John. If so that, then what about the others? Ho, ho! Then this so sweet maid is a polyandrist, and me, with my poor wife dead to me, but alive by Church’s law, though no wits, all gone, even I, who am faithful husband to this now-no-wife, am bigamist.’
'这么。但有一个困难，朋友约翰。如果是这样，那么其他人呢？嗬嗬！那么这个如此可爱的女仆是一个一妻多夫的人，而我，我可怜的妻子对我来说已经死了，但根据教会的法律还活着，虽然没有智慧，全部消失了，甚至我，这个现在没有妻子的忠实丈夫，也是重婚者.'

‘I don’t see where the joke comes in there either!’ I said, and I did not feel particularly pleased with him for saying such things. He laid his hand on my arm, and said,
“我也不明白其中有什么玩笑！”我说，但我对他说这些话并没有感到特别高兴。他把手放在我的手臂上，说道：

‘Friend John, forgive me if I pain. I showed not my feeling to others when it would wound, but only to you, my old friend, whom I can trust. If you could have looked into my heart then when I want to laugh, if you could have done so when the laugh arrived, if you could do so now, when King Laugh have pack up his crown, and all that is to him, for he go far, far away from me, and for a long, long time, maybe you would perhaps pity me the most of all.’
“朋友约翰，如果我感到疼痛，请原谅我。当我感到受伤时，我不会向别人表达我的感情，而只向你，我的老朋友，我可以信任的人表达。如果你能在我想笑的时候看透我的心，如果你能在笑声到来时这样做，如果你现在能这样做，当笑王收起他的王冠时，这一切都属于他，因为他离我很远很远，在很长很长的时间里，也许你最可怜我。

I was touched by the tenderness of his tone, and asked why.
我被他温柔的语气感动了，就问为什么。

‘Because I know!’
'因为我知道！'

And now we are all scattered, and for many a long day loneliness will sit over our roofs with brooding wings. Lucy lies in the tomb of her kin, a lordly death house in a lonely churchyard, away from teeming London, where the air is fresh, and the sun rises over Hampstead Hill, and where wild flowers grow of their own accord.
现在我们都分散了，在漫长的一天里，孤独会用沉思的翅膀盘踞在我们的屋顶上。露西躺在她亲人的坟墓里，这是一处孤独的教堂墓地里的一栋庄严的死亡之屋，远离喧嚣的伦敦，那里空气清新，太阳从汉普斯特德山升起，野花自然生长。

So I can finish this diary, and God only knows if I shall ever begin another. If I do, or if I even open this again, it will be to deal with different people and different themes, for here at the end, where the romance of my life is told, ere I go back to take up the thread of my life-work, I say sadly and without hope, ‘FINIS”.
这样我就可以完成这本日记了，只有上帝知道我是否会开始另一本日记。如果我这样做，或者即使我再次打开这个，那将是处理不同的人和不同的主题，因为在最后，我生命中的浪漫被讲述，然后我回去继续我的故事。一生的工作，我悲伤地、毫无希望地说，“结束了”。

THE WESTMINSTER GAZETTE, 25 SEPTEMBER A HAMPSTEAD MYSTERY
威斯敏斯特公报，9 月 25 日 汉普斯特德之谜

The neighborhood of Hampstead is just at present exercised with a series of events which seem to run on lines parallel to those of what was known to the writers of headlines as ‘The Kensington Horror,’ or ‘The Stabbing Woman,’ or ‘The Woman in Black.’ During the past two or three days several cases have occurred of young children straying from home or neglecting to return from their playing on the Heath. In all these cases the children were too young to give any properly intelligible account of themselves, but the consensus of their excuses is that they had been with a ‘bloofer lady.’ It has always been late in the evening when they have been missed, and on two occasions the children have not been found until early in the following morning. It is generally supposed in the neighborhood that, as the first child missed gave as his reason for being away that a ‘bloofer lady’ had asked him to come for a walk, the others had picked up the phrase and used it as occasion served. This is the more natural as the favourite game of the little ones at present is luring each other away by wiles. A correspondent writes us that to see some of the tiny tots pretending to be the ‘bloofer lady’ is supremely funny. Some of our caricaturists might, he says, take a lesson in the irony of grotesque by comparing the reality and the picture. It is only in accordance with general principles of human nature that the ‘bloofer lady’ should be the popular role at these al fresco performances. Our correspondent naively says that even Ellen Terry could not be so winningly attractive as some of these grubby-faced little children pretend, and even imagine themselves, to be.
汉普斯特德附近目前正在发生一系列事件，这些事件似乎与头条新闻作者所熟知的“肯辛顿恐怖事件”、“刺伤女人”或“女人”的事件平行。在过去的两三天里，发生了几起幼儿离家出走或在荒野玩耍后忘记回家的案件。在所有这些情况下，孩子们都太小，无法对自己做出任何适当的、可理解的描述，但他们的一致借口是，他们和一位“布洛弗女士”在一起。每当他们被想念时，总是在深夜，有两次孩子们直到第二天凌晨才被发现。邻居们普遍认为，当第一个错过的孩子给出了他离开的原因时，一位“傻瓜女士”邀请他来散步，其他人就拿起了这句话，并在适当的场合使用了它。这是更自然的事，因为现在小孩子们最喜欢的游戏就是用诡计引诱对方。一位记者写信给我们说，看到一些小孩子假装成“傻女人”真是太有趣了。他说，我们的一些漫画家可能会通过比较现实和图片来吸取怪诞讽刺的教训。只有按照人性的一般原则，“布洛弗女士”才应该成为这些户外表演中的受欢迎角色。我们的记者天真地说，即使是艾伦·特里也不可能像这些脏兮兮的小孩子假装的、甚至想象自己那样迷人。

There is, however, possibly a serious side to the question, for some of the children, indeed all who have been missed at night, have been slightly torn or wounded in the throat. The wounds seem such as might be made by a rat or a small dog, and although of not much importance individually, would tend to show that whatever animal inflicts them has a system or method of its own. The police of the division have been instructed to keep a sharp lookout for straying children, especially when very young, in and around Hampstead Heath, and for any stray dog which may be about.
然而，这个问题可能也有严重的一面，因为一些孩子，实际上是所有在夜间失踪的孩子，喉咙都被轻微撕裂或受伤。这些伤口似乎是由老鼠或小狗造成的，虽然对个人来说并不重要，但往往表明无论是什么动物造成的，都有其自己的系统或方法。该部门的警察接到指示，要密切关注汉普斯特德希思及其周边地区的流浪儿童，尤其是年幼的儿童，以及任何可能出现的流浪狗。

THE WESTMINSTER GAZETTE, 25 SEPTEMBER EXTRA SPECIAL
威斯敏斯特公报，9 月 25 日特别报道

THE HAMPSTEAD HORROR
汉普斯特德恐怖事件

ANOTHER CHILD INJURED
另一名儿童受伤

THE ‘BLOOFER LADY.’
“布卢弗女士”。

We have just received intelligence that another child, missed last night, was only discovered late in the morning under a furze bush at the Shooter’s Hill side of Hampstead Heath, which is perhaps, less frequented than the other parts. It has the same tiny wound in the throat as has been noticed in other cases. It was terribly weak, and looked quite emaciated. It too, when partially restored, had the common story to tell of being lured away by the ‘bloofer lady”.
我们刚刚收到情报，昨晚失踪的另一个孩子直到凌晨才在汉普斯特德希思射手山一侧的荆棘丛下被发现，那里可能比其他地方人迹罕至。它的喉咙里有与其他病例相同的小伤口。它的身体非常虚弱，看上去十分憔悴。当它被部分修复后，也有一个常见的故事，讲述了被“布洛弗女士”引诱走的故事。

Chapter 14
第14章

MINA HARKER’S JOURNAL
米娜·哈克的日记

23 September.—Jonathan is better after a bad night. I am so glad that he has plenty of work to do, for that keeps his mind off the terrible things, and oh, I am rejoiced that he is not now weighed down with the responsibility of his new position. I knew he would be true to himself, and now how proud I am to see my Jonathan rising to the height of his advancement and keeping pace in all ways with the duties that come upon him. He will be away all day till late, for he said he could not lunch at home. My household work is done, so I shall take his foreign journal, and lock myself up in my room and read it.
9 月 23 日——经历了一个糟糕的夜晚之后，乔纳森的情况有所好转。我很高兴他有很多工作要做，因为这让他不用去想那些可怕的事情，哦，我很高兴他现在没有被新职位的责任所压垮。我知道他会忠于自己，现在看到我的乔纳森达到了他的进步的高度，并在各方面与他所承担的职责保持同步，我感到多么自豪。他会离开一整天直到很晚，因为他说他不能在家吃午饭。我的家务事已经做完了，我就拿着他的外国日记，把自己锁在房间里看。

24 September.—I hadn’t the heart to write last night, that terrible record of Jonathan’s upset me so. Poor dear! How he must have suffered, whether it be true or only imagination. I wonder if there is any truth in it at all. Did he get his brain fever, and then write all those terrible things, or had he some cause for it all? I suppose I shall never know, for I dare not open the subject to him. And yet that man we saw yesterday! He seemed quite certain of him, poor fellow! I suppose it was the funeral upset him and sent his mind back on some train of thought.
9 月 24 日。——昨晚我没有心情写下来，乔纳森的可怕记录让我如此心烦意乱。好可怜！他一定遭受了怎样的痛苦，无论这是真实的还是只是想象。我想知道这是否有任何真实性。他是否得了脑热症，然后写下了所有这些可怕的东西，或者他有什么原因造成这一切？我想我永远不会知道，因为我不敢向他敞开这个话题。然而我们昨天看到的那个人！他似乎对他很有把握，可怜的家伙！我想是葬礼让他心烦意乱，让他的思绪又回到了某个方向。

He believes it all himself. I remember how on our wedding day he said ‘Unless some solemn duty come upon me to go back to the bitter hours, asleep or awake, mad or sane …’ There seems to be through it all some thread of continuity. That fearful Count was coming to London. If it should be, and he came to London, with its teeming millions … There may be a solemn duty, and if it come we must not shrink from it. I shall be prepared. I shall get my typewriter this very hour and begin transcribing. Then we shall be ready for other eyes if required. And if it be wanted, then, perhaps, if I am ready, poor Jonathan may not be upset, for I can speak for him and never let him be troubled or worried with it at all. If ever Jonathan quite gets over the nervousness he may want to tell me of it all, and I can ask him questions and find out things, and see how I may comfort him.
这一切他自己都相信。我记得在我们结婚那天，他说：“除非有某种庄严的责任降临到我身上，让我回到痛苦的时光，无论是睡着还是醒着，是疯狂还是理智……”这一切似乎都有某种连续性。那个可怕的伯爵要来伦敦了。如果是的话，他来到了拥有数百万人的伦敦……可能有一项庄严的责任，如果它到来，我们决不能退缩。我会做好准备的。我马上就拿起打字机开始抄写。然后，如果需要的话，我们将准备好迎接其他人的目光。如果需要的话，那么，也许，如果我准备好了，可怜的乔纳森可能不会感到不安，因为我可以为他说话，永远不会让他为此感到困扰或担心。如果乔纳森完全克服了紧张，他可能会想告诉我这一切，我可以问他问题并了解情况，看看如何安慰他。

LETTER, VAN HELSING TO MRS. HARKER
范海辛给夫人的信哈克

24 September
9 月 24 日

(Confidence)
（信心）

‘Dear Madam,
'尊敬的女士，

‘I pray you to pardon my writing, in that I am so far friend as that I sent to you sad news of Miss Lucy Westenra’s death. By the kindness of Lord Godalming, I am empowered to read her letters and papers, for I am deeply concerned about certain matters vitally important. In them I find some letters from you, which show how great friends you were and how you love her. Oh, Madam Mina, by that love, I implore you, help me. It is for others’ good that I ask, to redress great wrong, and to lift much and terrible troubles, that may be more great than you can know. May it be that I see you? You can trust me. I am friend of Dr. John Seward and of Lord Godalming (that was Arthur of Miss Lucy). I must keep it private for the present from all. I should come to Exeter to see you at once if you tell me I am privilege to come, and where and when. I implore your pardon, Madam. I have read your letters to poor Lucy, and know how good you are and how your husband suffer. So I pray you, if it may be, enlighten him not, least it may harm. Again your pardon, and forgive me.
“我请求您原谅我的写作，因为我到目前为止是朋友，因为我向您发送了露西·韦斯特拉小姐去世的悲伤消息。感谢戈达尔明勋爵的仁慈，我有能力阅读她的信件和论文，因为我深切关注某些至关重要的事情。在其中我找到了一些你写来的信，这些信表明你们是多么好的朋友以及您多么爱她。哦，米娜女士，凭着这份爱，我恳求你帮助我。我请求的是为了他人的利益，纠正巨大的错误，解除许多可怕的麻烦，这可能比你想象的还要伟大。可以让我看见你吗？你可以相信我。我是约翰·苏厄德博士和戈达尔明勋爵（即露西小姐的亚瑟）的朋友。目前我必须对所有人保密。如果你告诉我我很荣幸能来埃克塞特，以及何时何地，我应该立即来埃克塞特见你。女士，请您原谅。我读过你写给可怜的露西的信，知道你有多好，也知道你丈夫有多痛苦。所以我请求你，如果可能的话，不要启发他，以免造成伤害。再次请您原谅，并原谅我。

‘VAN HELSING.’
“范海辛。”

TELEGRAM, MRS. HARKER TO VAN HELSING
电报，夫人。哈克对范海辛说

25 September.—Come today by quarter past ten train if you can catch it. Can see you any time you call. ‘WILHELMINA HARKER.’
9 月 25 日——如果您能赶上今天十点一刻的火车，请来。只要你打电话就能见到你。 “威廉明娜·哈克。”

MINA HARKER’S JOURNAL
米娜·哈克的日记

25 September.—I cannot help feeling terribly excited as the time draws near for the visit of Dr. Van Helsing, for somehow I expect that it will throw some light upon Jonathan’s sad experience, and as he attended poor dear Lucy in her last illness, he can tell me all about her. That is the reason of his coming. It is concerning Lucy and her sleep-walking, and not about Jonathan. Then I shall never know the real truth now! How silly I am. That awful journal gets hold of my imagination and tinges everything with something of its own colour. Of course it is about Lucy. That habit came back to the poor dear, and that awful night on the cliff must have made her ill. I had almost forgotten in my own affairs how ill she was afterwards. She must have told him of her sleep-walking adventure on the cliff, and that I knew all about it, and now he wants me to tell him what I know, so that he may understand. I hope I did right in not saying anything of it to Mrs. Westenra. I should never forgive myself if any act of mine, were it even a negative one, brought harm on poor dear Lucy. I hope too, Dr. Van Helsing will not blame me. I have had so much trouble and anxiety of late that I feel I cannot bear more just at present.
9 月 25 日。——随着范海辛医生来访的时间越来越近，我不禁感到非常兴奋，因为我希望这能让人们了解乔纳森的悲伤经历，以及他照顾可怜的亲爱的露西最后一次生病的情况。 ，他可以告诉我关于她的一切。这就是他来的原因。这是关于露西和她的梦游，而不是关于乔纳森。那么我现在就永远不会知道真相了！我是多么愚蠢啊。那本糟糕的日记抓住了我的想象力，给一切都染上了它自己的色彩。当然是关于露西的。这个习惯又回到了可怜的亲爱的身上，悬崖上那个可怕的夜晚一定让她生病了。我几乎在自己的事情中忘记了她后来病得有多严重。她肯定告诉了他她在悬崖上梦游的冒险经历，而我都知道这一切，现在他要我告诉他我所知道的事情，以便他能够理解。我希望我没有向韦斯特拉夫人透露任何事情是正确的。如果我的任何行为，哪怕是消极的行为，给可怜的亲爱的露西带来伤害，我都永远不会原谅自己。我也希望范海辛博士不会责怪我。最近我经历了太多的麻烦和焦虑，以至于我觉得现在我无法承受更多。

I suppose a cry does us all good at times, clears the air as other rain does. Perhaps it was reading the journal yesterday that upset me, and then Jonathan went away this morning to stay away from me a whole day and night, the first time we have been parted since our marriage. I do hope the dear fellow will take care of himself, and that nothing will occur to upset him. It is two o’clock, and the doctor will be here soon now. I shall say nothing of Jonathan’s journal unless he asks me. I am so glad I have typewritten out my own journal, so that, in case he asks about Lucy, I can hand it to him. It will save much questioning.
我想哭有时对我们都有好处，就像其他雨一样净化空气。也许是昨天读的日记让我心烦意乱，然后乔纳森今天早上就离开了我一整天一夜，这是我们结婚以来第一次分开。我真心希望这位亲爱的朋友能够照顾好自己，不要发生任何让他心烦意乱的事情。现在已经两点了，医生很快就来了。除非乔纳森问我，否则我不会谈论他的日记。我很高兴我自己打印了日记，这样，如果他问起露西，我可以把它交给他。这将节省很多质疑。

Later.—He has come and gone. Oh, what a strange meeting, and how it all makes my head whirl round. I feel like one in a dream. Can it be all possible, or even a part of it? If I had not read Jonathan’s journal first, I should never have accepted even a possibility. Poor, poor, dear Jonathan! How he must have suffered. Please the good God, all this may not upset him again. I shall try to save him from it. But it may be even a consolation and a help to him, terrible though it be and awful in its consequences, to know for certain that his eyes and ears and brain did not deceive him, and that it is all true. It may be that it is the doubt which haunts him, that when the doubt is removed, no matter which, waking or dreaming, may prove the truth, he will be more satisfied and better able to bear the shock. Dr. Van Helsing must be a good man as well as a clever one if he is Arthur’s friend and Dr. Seward’s, and if they brought him all the way from Holland to look after Lucy. I feel from having seen him that he is good and kind and of a noble nature. When he comes tomorrow I shall ask him about Jonathan. And then, please God, all this sorrow and anxiety may lead to a good end. I used to think I would like to practice interviewing. Jonathan’s friend on ‘The Exeter News’ told him that memory is everything in such work, that you must be able to put down exactly almost every word spoken, even if you had to refine some of it afterwards. Here was a rare interview. I shall try to record it verbatim.
后来——他来了又走了。噢，多么奇怪的一次会面，这一切让我头晕目眩。我感觉就像是在梦中一样。这一切都可能吗，甚至是其中的一部分？如果我没有先读过乔纳森的日记，我就永远不会接受哪怕是一种可能性。可怜的，可怜的，亲爱的乔纳森！他一定受了多少苦。上帝保佑，这一切不要再让他心烦意乱了。我会尽力把他从困境中拯救出来。但即使这很可怕，而且其后果也很可怕，但确定他的眼睛、耳朵和大脑没有欺骗他，而且这一切都是真的，这对他来说甚至可能是一种安慰和帮助。也许正是这种疑虑萦绕在他的心头，当疑虑消除后，无论醒着还是梦中，都可能证明事实，他会更满足，也更能承受震惊。如果范海辛医生是亚瑟和苏厄德医生的朋友，如果他们从荷兰大老远地把他带来来照顾露西，他一定是一个好人，也是一个聪明人。我看到他就觉得他善良、善良、品格高尚。明天他来的时候我会问他关于乔纳森的事。然后，上帝保佑，所有这些悲伤和焦虑都会有一个好的结局。我曾经以为我想练习面试。乔纳森在《埃克塞特新闻》上的朋友告诉他，在这种工作中，记忆力就是一切，你必须能够准确地记下所说的几乎每一个字，即使你事后必须改进其中的一些字。这是一次罕见的采访。我将尝试逐字记录。

It was half-past two o’clock when the knock came. I took my courage a deux mains and waited. In a few minutes Mary opened the door, and announced ‘Dr. Van Helsing”.
敲门声传来的时候，已经是两点半了。我鼓起勇气等待。几分钟后，玛丽打开门，宣布“博士”。范海辛”。

I rose and bowed, and he came towards me, a man of medium weight, strongly built, with his shoulders set back over a broad, deep chest and a neck well balanced on the trunk as the head is on the neck. The poise of the head strikes me at once as indicative of thought and power. The head is noble, well-sized, broad, and large behind the ears. The face, clean-shaven, shows a hard, square chin, a large resolute, mobile mouth, a good-sized nose, rather straight, but with quick, sensitive nostrils, that seem to broaden as the big bushy brows come down and the mouth tightens. The forehead is broad and fine, rising at first almost straight and then sloping back above two bumps or ridges wide apart, such a forehead that the reddish hair cannot possibly tumble over it, but falls naturally back and to the sides. Big, dark blue eyes are set widely apart, and are quick and tender or stern with the man’s moods. He said to me,
我起身鞠躬，他向我走来，他是一个中等体重、体格健壮的人，肩膀向后靠在宽阔深邃的胸膛上，脖子在躯干上保持着平衡，头就在脖子上。头部的平静立刻让我印象深刻，因为它象征着思想和力量。头部高贵，大小合适，宽阔，耳后很大。脸刮得干干净净，下巴坚硬而方正，嘴大而坚决，活动自如，鼻子很大，挺直，但鼻孔灵敏而敏感，随着浓密的大眉毛向下垂下来，鼻孔似乎变宽了。嘴巴收紧。额头又宽又细，一开始几乎是直立的，然后向后倾斜到两个宽阔的隆起或脊线之上，这样的额头使得红色的头发不可能翻倒在上面，而是自然地向后和两侧垂落。深蓝色的大眼睛间距很大，随着男人的情绪而迅速、温柔或严厉。他对我说，

‘Mrs. Harker, is it not?’ I bowed assent.
'太太。哈克，不是吗？”我鞠躬表示同意。

‘That was Miss Mina Murray?’ Again I assented.
“那是米娜·默里小姐吗？”我再次表示同意。

‘It is Mina Murray that I came to see that was friend of that poor dear child Lucy Westenra. Madam Mina, it is on account of the dead that I come.’
“我来见的是米娜·默里，她是那个可怜的亲爱的孩子露西·韦斯特拉的朋友。米娜女士，我是为了死者才来的。

‘Sir,’ I said, ‘you could have no better claim on me than that you were a friend and helper of Lucy Westenra.’ And I held out my hand. He took it and said tenderly,
“先生，”我说，“你对我来说没有比你是露西·韦斯特拉的朋友和帮助者更好的了。”然后我伸出了手。他接过，温柔地说：

‘Oh, Madam Mina, I know that the friend of that poor little girl must be good, but I had yet to learn …’ He finished his speech with a courtly bow. I asked him what it was that he wanted to see me about, so he at once began.
“哦，米娜女士，我知道那个可怜的小女孩的朋友一定很好，但我还没有学会……”他以礼貌的鞠躬结束了演讲。我问他找我有什么事，他立刻就开始了。

‘I have read your letters to Miss Lucy. Forgive me, but I had to begin to inquire somewhere, and there was none to ask. I know that you were with her at Whitby. She sometimes kept a diary, you need not look surprised, Madam Mina. It was begun after you had left, and was an imitation of you, and in that diary she traces by inference certain things to a sleep-walking in which she puts down that you saved her. In great perplexity then I come to you, and ask you out of your so much kindness to tell me all of it that you can remember.’
“我读过你写给露西小姐的信。请原谅我，但我必须开始向某个地方打听，但没有什么可问的。我知道你和她一起在惠特比。她有时会写日记，你不必显得惊讶，米娜女士。它是在你离开后开始的，是对你的模仿，在那本日记中，她通过推理追踪了梦游的某些事情，并在其中写下了你救了她。然后我带着极大的困惑来到你身边，出于你的善意，请你告诉我你所记得的所有事情。

‘I can tell you, I think, Dr. Van Helsing, all about it.’
“范海辛博士，我想我可以告诉你这一切。”

‘Ah, then you have good memory for facts, for details? It is not always so with young ladies.’
“啊，那么你对事实、细节的记忆力很好吗？对于年轻女士来说情况并非总是如此。

‘No, doctor, but I wrote it all down at the time. I can show it to you if you like.’
“不，医生，但我当时都写下来了。如果你愿意的话我可以给你看。

‘Oh, Madam Mina, I well be grateful. You will do me much favour.’
“哦，米娜女士，我很感激。你会给我很大的帮助。

I could not resist the temptation of mystifying him a bit, I suppose it is some taste of the original apple that remains still in our mouths, so I handed him the shorthand diary. He took it with a grateful bow, and said, ‘May I read it?’
我无法抗拒让他迷惑的诱惑，我想这是我们嘴里还残留着苹果原汁原味的味道，所以我把速记日记递给了他。他感激地鞠了一躬，接过它，说道：“我可以读一下吗？”

‘If you wish,’ I answered as demurely as I could. He opened it, and for an instant his face fell. Then he stood up and bowed.
“如果你愿意的话，”我尽可能端庄地回答。他打开门，脸色瞬间沉了下来。然后他站起来鞠躬。

‘Oh, you so clever woman!’ he said. ‘I knew long that Mr. Jonathan was a man of much thankfulness, but see, his wife have all the good things. And will you not so much honour me and so help me as to read it for me? Alas! I know not the shorthand.’
“哦，你真是个聪明的女人！”他说。 “我早就知道乔纳森先生是一个非常感恩的人，但是你看，他的妻子拥有所有美好的东西。您愿意帮我读一下这本书吗？唉!我不知道简写。

By this time my little joke was over, and I was almost ashamed. So I took the typewritten copy from my work basket and handed it to him.
这时候我的小玩笑已经结束了，我都快羞愧难当了。于是我从工作篮里拿出打字稿递给他。

‘Forgive me,’ I said. ‘I could not help it, but I had been thinking that it was of dear Lucy that you wished to ask, and so that you might not have time to wait, not on my account, but because I know your time must be precious, I have written it out on the typewriter for you.’
“原谅我，”我说。 “我忍不住，但我一直在想，你想问的是亲爱的露西，这样你就可以没有时间等待，不是因为我，而是因为我知道你的时间一定很宝贵，我已经用打字机给你写好了。”

He took it and his eyes glistened. ‘You are so good,’ he said. ‘And may I read it now? I may want to ask you some things when I have read.’
他接过它，眼睛闪闪发光。 “你真好，”他说。 “我现在可以读一下吗？”读完后我可能想问你一些事情。

‘By all means,’ I said, ‘read it over whilst I order lunch, and then you can ask me questions whilst we eat.’
“无论如何，”我说，“在我点午餐的时候读一遍，然后你可以在我们吃饭的时候问我问题。”

He bowed and settled himself in a chair with his back to the light, and became so absorbed in the papers, whilst I went to see after lunch chiefly in order that he might not be disturbed. When I came back, I found him walking hurriedly up and down the room, his face all ablaze with excitement. He rushed up to me and took me by both hands.
他鞠躬，背对着灯光坐在椅子上，全神贯注地阅读报纸，而我午饭后去看望他，主要是为了不打扰他。当我回来时，我发现他在房间里快步走来走去，脸上写满了兴奋。他冲到我身边，握住我的双手。

‘Oh, Madam Mina,’ he said, ‘how can I say what I owe to you? This paper is as sunshine. It opens the gate to me. I am dazed, I am dazzled, with so much light, and yet clouds roll in behind the light every time. But that you do not, cannot comprehend. Oh, but I am grateful to you, you so clever woman. Madame,’ he said this very solemnly, ‘if ever Abraham Van Helsing can do anything for you or yours, I trust you will let me know. It will be pleasure and delight if I may serve you as a friend, as a friend, but all I have ever learned, all I can ever do, shall be for you and those you love. There are darknesses in life, and there are lights. You are one of the lights. You will have a happy life and a good life, and your husband will be blessed in you.’
“哦，米娜女士，”他说，“我该怎么说我欠你什么呢？这张纸就像阳光一样。它为我打开了大门。如此多的光，我眼花缭乱，眼花缭乱，但每次光的后面都有云彩滚滚而来。但你不知道，就无法理解。哦，但我很感激你，你这么聪明的女人。夫人，”他非常郑重地说，“如果亚伯拉罕·范海辛能为您或您的家人做任何事情，我相信您会让我知道。如果我能以朋友的身份为你服务，那将是我的荣幸和喜悦，但我所学到的一切，我所能做的一切，都是为了你和你所爱的人。人生有黑暗，也有光明。你是光中的一员。你会过上幸福、美好的生活，你的丈夫也会因你而蒙福。

‘But, doctor, you praise me too much, and you do not know me.’
“但是，医生，你太夸奖我了，而且你并不了解我。”

‘Not know you, I, who am old, and who have studied all my life men and women, I who have made my specialty the brain and all that belongs to him and all that follow from him! And I have read your diary that you have so goodly written for me, and which breathes out truth in every line. I, who have read your so sweet letter to poor Lucy of your marriage and your trust, not know you! Oh, Madam Mina, good women tell all their lives, and by day and by hour and by minute, such things that angels can read. And we men who wish to know have in us something of angels’ eyes. Your husband is noble nature, and you are noble too, for you trust, and trust cannot be where there is mean nature. And your husband, tell me of him. Is he quite well? Is all that fever gone, and is he strong and hearty?’
‘我不认识你，我已经老了，一生都在研究男人和女人，我把大脑和属于他的一切以及从他而来的一切作为我的专长！我读过你为我写的日记，每一行都透露着真理。我读过你写给可怜的露西的如此甜蜜的信，讲述了你的婚姻和你的信任，但我不认识你！哦，米娜女士，善良的女人讲述了她们一生的一切，日复一日、时时刻刻、每一分钟，天使都能读懂这些事情。而我们这些想知道真相的人，都拥有天使般的眼睛。你的丈夫是高尚的本性，你也是高尚的，因为你信任，而信任不可能存在于卑鄙的本性中。还有你的丈夫，告诉我他的情况。他身体好吗？所有的发烧都消失了吗？他是否坚强而热情？

I saw here an opening to ask him about Jonathan, so I said, ‘He was almost recovered, but he has been greatly upset by Mr. Hawkins death.’
我看到这里有机会向他询问乔纳森的情况，所以我说，“他几乎康复了，但他对霍金斯先生的去世感到非常难过。”

He interrupted, ‘Oh, yes. I know. I know. I have read your last two letters.’
他打断道：‘噢，是的。我知道。我知道。我读过你的最后两封信。

I went on, ‘I suppose this upset him, for when we were in town on Thursday last he had a sort of shock.’
我继续说，“我想这让他很不安，因为我们周四在城里时，他感到有点震惊。”

‘A shock, and after brain fever so soon! That is not good. What kind of shock was it?’
‘震惊了，这么快就脑热了！这是不好的。是什么样的震惊？

‘He thought he saw some one who recalled something terrible, something which led to his brain fever.’ And here the whole thing seemed to overwhelm me in a rush. The pity for Jonathan, the horror which he experienced, the whole fearful mystery of his diary, and the fear that has been brooding over me ever since, all came in a tumult. I suppose I was hysterical, for I threw myself on my knees and held up my hands to him, and implored him to make my husband well again. He took my hands and raised me up, and made me sit on the sofa, and sat by me. He held my hand in his, and said to me with, oh, such infinite sweetness,
“他认为他看到某个人回忆起了一些可怕的事情，一些导致他脑部发烧的事情。”在这里，整件事似乎让我不知所措。对乔纳森的怜悯，他所经历的恐怖，他日记中的整个可怕的神秘，以及从那时起一直笼罩在我身上的恐惧，一切都在骚动中涌来。我想我是歇斯底里了，因为我跪下来，向他举起双手，恳求他让我的丈夫康复。他拉着我的手，把我扶起来，让我坐在沙发上，自己坐在我身边。他握住我的手，用无限甜蜜的语气对我说：

‘My life is a barren and lonely one, and so full of work that I have not had much time for friendships, but since I have been summoned to here by my friend John Seward I have known so many good people and seen such nobility that I feel more than ever, and it has grown with my advancing years, the loneliness of my life. Believe me, then, that I come here full of respect for you, and you have given me hope, hope, not in what I am seeking of, but that there are good women still left to make life happy, good women, whose lives and whose truths may make good lesson for the children that are to be. I am glad, glad, that I may here be of some use to you. For if your husband suffer, he suffer within the range of my study and experience. I promise you that I will gladly do all for him that I can, all to make his life strong and manly, and your life a happy one. Now you must eat. You are overwrought and perhaps over-anxious. Husband Jonathan would not like to see you so pale, and what he like not where he love, is not to his good. Therefore for his sake you must eat and smile. You have told me about Lucy, and so now we shall not speak of it, lest it distress. I shall stay in Exeter tonight, for I want to think much over what you have told me, and when I have thought I will ask you questions, if I may. And then too, you will tell me of husband Jonathan’s trouble so far as you can, but not yet. You must eat now, afterwards you shall tell me all.’
“我的生活贫瘠而孤独，充满了工作，没有太多时间交朋友，但自从我的朋友约翰·苏厄德召唤我来到这里，我认识了很多好人，看到了如此高尚的人，我比以往任何时候都更能感受到生活的孤独感，而且随着年龄的增长，这种感觉也越来越强烈。那么请相信我，我怀着对你的尊重来到这里，你给了我希望，希望，不是我所追求的，而是还有好女人让生活幸福，好女人，她们的生活他们的真理可以为未来的孩子们提供很好的教训。我很高兴，很高兴，我可以在这里对你有所帮助。因为如果你的丈夫受苦，他在我的研究和经验范围内受苦。我向你保证，我会很乐意为他尽我所能，让他的生活坚强而有男子气概，让你的生活幸福。现在你必须吃饭了。你过度紧张，也许过度焦虑。丈夫乔纳森不希望看到你如此苍白，他不喜欢他所爱的地方，这对他没有好处。因此，为了他，你必须吃饭并微笑。你已经告诉我关于露西的事了，所以现在我们不会谈论它，以免它令人痛苦。今晚我将留在埃克塞特，因为我想仔细考虑一下你告诉我的事情，如果可以的话，当我想到时我会问你问题。然后，你也会尽可能告诉我丈夫乔纳森的麻烦，但现在还不行。你现在必须吃饭，吃完之后你就告诉我一切。”

After lunch, when we went back to the drawing room, he said to me, ‘And now tell me all about him.’
午餐后，当我们回到客厅时，他对我说：“现在告诉我关于他的一切。”

When it came to speaking to this great learned man, I began to fear that he would think me a weak fool, and Jonathan a madman, that journal is all so strange, and I hesitated to go on. But he was so sweet and kind, and he had promised to help, and I trusted him, so I said,
当谈到与这位伟大的学者交谈时，我开始担心他会认为我是一个软弱的傻瓜，而乔纳森是一个疯子，那本日记是如此奇怪，我犹豫着是否要继续下去。但他是如此的友善和善良，而且他答应提供帮助，而且我信任他，所以我说，

‘Dr. Van Helsing, what I have to tell you is so queer that you must not laugh at me or at my husband. I have been since yesterday in a sort of fever of doubt. You must be kind to me, and not think me foolish that I have even half believed some very strange things.’
‘博士。范海辛，我要告诉你的事情太奇怪了，你不可以嘲笑我或我的丈夫。从昨天起我就一直处于一种怀疑的狂热之中。你一定要善待我，不要认为我很愚蠢，因为我对一些非常奇怪的事情半信半疑。

He reassured me by his manner as well as his words when he said, ‘Oh, my dear, if you only know how strange is the matter regarding which I am here, it is you who would laugh. I have learned not to think little of any one’s belief, no matter how strange it may be. I have tried to keep an open mind, and it is not the ordinary things of life that could close it, but the strange things, the extraordinary things, the things that make one doubt if they be mad or sane.’
他用他的态度和言语让我放心，他说：“哦，亲爱的，如果你知道我在这里谈论的事情有多么奇怪，你就会笑。”我学会了不要轻视任何人的信仰，无论它有多么奇怪。我试图保持开放的心态，生活中的普通事物不会封闭我的心态，但奇怪的事情、非凡的事情、那些让人怀疑自己是疯了还是神智正常的事情。

‘Thank you, thank you a thousand times! You have taken a weight off my mind. If you will let me, I shall give you a paper to read. It is long, but I have typewritten it out. It will tell you my trouble and Jonathan’s. It is the copy of his journal when abroad, and all that happened. I dare not say anything of it. You will read for yourself and judge. And then when I see you, perhaps, you will be very kind and tell me what you think.’
‘谢谢你，谢谢你一千遍！你减轻了我心中的负担。如果你愿意的话，我会给你一篇论文供你阅读。虽然很长，但我已经打字了。它会告诉你我和乔纳森的麻烦。这是他在国外时的日记副本，以及所发生的一切。我不敢再说什么。您将自己阅读并做出判断。然后当我见到你时，也许你会非常友善地告诉我你的想法。”

‘I promise,’ he said as I gave him the papers. ‘I shall in the morning, as soon as I can, come to see you and your husband, if I may.’
“我保证，”当我把文件交给他时他说道。 “如果可以的话，我会在早上尽快去看你和你的丈夫。”

‘Jonathan will be here at half-past eleven, and you must come to lunch with us and see him then. You could catch the quick 3:34 train, which will leave you at Paddington before eight.’ He was surprised at my knowledge of the trains offhand, but he does not know that I have made up all the trains to and from Exeter, so that I may help Jonathan in case he is in a hurry.
“乔纳森将于十一点半到这里，你必须和我们一起吃午饭，然后见他。你可以赶上 3 点 34 分的快车，八点前从帕丁顿出发。”他对我对火车的了解感到惊讶，但他不知道我已经安排了所有往返埃克塞特的火车，所以如果乔纳森有急事，我可以帮助他。

So he took the papers with him and went away, and I sit here thinking, thinking I don’t know what.
于是他带着文件走了，我坐在这里思考，思考我不知道发生了什么。

LETTER (by hand), VAN HELSING TO MRS. HARKER
范海辛致夫人的信（手写）哈克

25 September, 6 o’clock
9 月 25 日 6 点

‘Dear Madam Mina,
“亲爱的米娜女士，

‘I have read your husband’s so wonderful diary. You may sleep without doubt. Strange and terrible as it is, it is true! I will pledge my life on it. It may be worse for others, but for him and you there is no dread. He is a noble fellow, and let me tell you from experience of men, that one who would do as he did in going down that wall and to that room, aye, and going a second time, is not one to be injured in permanence by a shock. His brain and his heart are all right, this I swear, before I have even seen him, so be at rest. I shall have much to ask him of other things. I am blessed that today I come to see you, for I have learn all at once so much that again I am dazzled, dazzled more than ever, and I must think.
“我读过你丈夫的精彩日记。毫无疑问，你可以睡觉。尽管这很奇怪、很可怕，但这是真的！我将用我的生命来保证它。对于其他人来说可能会更糟，但是对于他和你来说没有什么可怕的。他是一个高尚的人，让我根据人类的经验告诉你，一个像他那样走下那堵墙，进入那个房间，是的，然后第二次走的人，不会是一个永远受到伤害的人。震惊。他的大脑和他的心脏都很好，我发誓，在我还没见到他之前，所以休息吧。我还有很多其他事情要问他。我很幸运今天能来看你，因为我一下子学到了很多东西，我再次感到眼花缭乱，比以往任何时候都更加眼花缭乱，我必须思考。

‘Yours the most faithful,
‘你是最忠实的，

‘Abraham Van Helsing.’
“亚伯拉罕·范海辛。”

LETTER, MRS. HARKER TO VAN HELSING
信，夫人。哈克对范海辛说

25 September, 6:30 P.M.
9 月 25 日下午 6:30

‘My dear Dr. Van Helsing,
“我亲爱的范海辛博士，

‘A thousand thanks for your kind letter, which has taken a great weight off my mind. And yet, if it be true, what terrible things there are in the world, and what an awful thing if that man, that monster, be really in London! I fear to think. I have this moment, whilst writing, had a wire from Jonathan, saying that he leaves by the 6:25 tonight from Launceston and will be here at 10:18, so that I shall have no fear tonight. Will you, therefore, instead of lunching with us, please come to breakfast at eight o’clock, if this be not too early for you? You can get away, if you are in a hurry, by the 10:30 train, which will bring you to Paddington by 2:35. Do not answer this, as I shall take it that, if I do not hear, you will come to breakfast.
“非常感谢你的善意来信，这减轻了我的负担。然而，如果这是真的，世界上有多么可怕的事情，如果那个人，那个怪物真的在伦敦，那将是多么可怕的事情！我不敢去想。此刻，我在写作时收到了乔纳森的电报，说他将于今晚 6:25 从朗塞斯顿出发，并于 10:18 到达这里，这样我今晚就不用担心了。因此，请您在八点钟来吃早餐，而不是和我们一起吃午餐，如果这对您来说还不算太早的话？如果您赶时间，可以乘坐 10:30 的火车出发，该火车将于 2:35 到达帕丁顿。不要回答这个问题，因为如果我没有听到，我就认为你会来吃早餐。

‘Believe me,
'相信我，

‘Your faithful and grateful friend,
“你忠实而感激的朋友，

‘Mina Harker.’
“米娜·哈克。”

JONATHAN HARKER’S JOURNAL
乔纳森·哈克的日记

26 September.—I thought never to write in this diary again, but the time has come. When I got home last night Mina had supper ready, and when we had supped she told me of Van Helsing’s visit, and of her having given him the two diaries copied out, and of how anxious she has been about me. She showed me in the doctor’s letter that all I wrote down was true. It seems to have made a new man of me. It was the doubt as to the reality of the whole thing that knocked me over. I felt impotent, and in the dark, and distrustful. But, now that I know, I am not afraid, even of the Count. He has succeeded after all, then, in his design in getting to London, and it was he I saw. He has got younger, and how? Van Helsing is the man to unmask him and hunt him out, if he is anything like what Mina says. We sat late, and talked it over. Mina is dressing, and I shall call at the hotel in a few minutes and bring him over.
9 月 26 日——我本以为再也不会写这本日记了，但现在是时候了。昨晚我回到家时，米娜已经准备好了晚饭，吃完晚饭后，她告诉我范海辛来访的事，她给了他抄下来的两本日记，以及她对我有多担心。她在医生的信中向我表明我写下的一切都是真实的。它似乎让我焕然一新。正是对整件事的真实性的怀疑让我崩溃了。我感到无能为力，在黑暗中，并且不信任。但是，既然我知道了，我就不怕了，即使是伯爵。那么，他最终成功地到达了伦敦，而我看到的就是他。他变年轻了，怎么办？如果他真的像米娜所说的那样，范海辛就是揭开他的面具并追捕他的人。我们坐到很晚，讨论了这个问题。米娜正在穿衣服，几分钟后我会打电话到酒店把他带过来。

He was, I think, surprised to see me. When I came into the room where he was, and introduced myself, he took me by the shoulder, and turned my face round to the light, and said, after a sharp scrutiny,
我想他看到我一定很惊讶。当我走进他所在的房间并自我介绍时，他抓住我的肩膀，将我的脸转向灯光，仔细审视后说道：

‘But Madam Mina told me you were ill, that you had had a shock.’
“但是米娜女士告诉我你病了，你受了惊吓。”

It was so funny to hear my wife called ‘Madam Mina’ by this kindly, strong-faced old man. I smiled, and said, ‘I was ill, I have had a shock, but you have cured me already.’
听到我的妻子被这个和蔼可亲、表情坚强的老人称为“米娜女士”，真是太有趣了。我微笑着说：“我病了，受了惊吓，但你已经治好了我。”

‘And how?’
'如何？'

‘By your letter to Mina last night. I was in doubt, and then everything took a hue of unreality, and I did not know what to trust, even the evidence of my own senses. Not knowing what to trust, I did not know what to do, and so had only to keep on working in what had hitherto been the groove of my life. The groove ceased to avail me, and I mistrusted myself. Doctor, you don’t know what it is to doubt everything, even yourself. No, you don’t, you couldn’t with eyebrows like yours.’
“根据你昨晚写给米娜的信。我心存疑虑，然后一切都变得不真实，我不知道该相信什么，甚至不知道自己的感官证据。我不知道该相信什么，也不知道该做什么，所以只能继续按照我迄今为止的生活节奏工作。节奏不再对我有帮助，我不信任自己。医生，你不知道什么是怀疑一切，甚至怀疑你自己。不，你不知道，你不可能有像你这样的眉毛。”

He seemed pleased, and laughed as he said, ‘So! You are a physiognomist. I learn more here with each hour. I am with so much pleasure coming to you to breakfast, and, oh, sir, you will pardon praise from an old man, but you are blessed in your wife.’
他似乎很高兴，笑着说道：“所以！你是一位相学家。我在这里每小时学到更多。我很高兴能来你这里吃早餐，哦，先生，你会原谅一位老人的赞美，但你的妻子是有福的。

I would listen to him go on praising Mina for a day, so I simply nodded and stood silent.
我会听他夸奖米娜一天，所以我只是点点头，静静地站着。

‘She is one of God’s women, fashioned by His own hand to show us men and other women that there is a heaven where we can enter, and that its light can be here on earth. So true, so sweet, so noble, so little an egoist, and that, let me tell you, is much in this age, so sceptical and selfish. And you, sir … I have read all the letters to poor Miss Lucy, and some of them speak of you, so I know you since some days from the knowing of others, but I have seen your true self since last night. You will give me your hand, will you not? And let us be friends for all our lives.’
“她是上帝的女性之一，由上帝亲手塑造，向我们男人和其他女人展示有一个我们可以进入的天堂，并且它的光可以在地球上。”如此真实，如此甜蜜，如此高尚，如此不自私，让我告诉你，这在这个时代很常见，如此怀疑和自私。还有你，先生……我读过所有写给可怜的露西小姐的信，其中一些谈到了你，所以我从几天前就通过别人的了解认识了你，但从昨晚起我已经看到了你的真实自我。你会把你的手给我，不是吗？让我们成为一生的朋友。

We shook hands, and he was so earnest and so kind that it made me quite choky.
我们握了手，他那么认真、那么友善，让我有些哽咽。

‘and now,’ he said, ‘may I ask you for some more help? I have a great task to do, and at the beginning it is to know. You can help me here. Can you tell me what went before your going to Transylvania? Later on I may ask more help, and of a different kind, but at first this will do.’
“现在，”他说，“我可以请你帮忙吗？我有一项伟大的任务要做，一开始就是要知道。你可以在这里帮助我。你能告诉我你去特兰西瓦尼亚之前发生了什么吗？稍后我可能会寻求更多帮助，而且是不同类型的帮助，但一开始就这样。”

‘Look here, Sir,’ I said, ‘does what you have to do concern the Count?’
“听着，先生，”我说，“您要做的事情与伯爵有关吗？”

‘It does,’ he said solemnly.
“确实如此，”他严肃地说。

‘Then I am with you heart and soul. As you go by the 10:30 train, you will not have time to read them, but I shall get the bundle of papers. You can take them with you and read them in the train.’
‘那么我就全心全意地与你同在。当你乘坐 10:30 的火车时，你将没有时间阅读它们，但我会拿到那捆文件。你可以随身携带它们并在火车上阅读它们。

After breakfast I saw him to the station. When we were parting he said, ‘Perhaps you will come to town if I send for you, and take Madam Mina too.’
早餐后，我送他到车站。当我们分别时，他说：“如果我派人去叫你，也许你会进城，并把米娜女士也带走。”

‘We shall both come when you will,’ I said.
“只要你愿意，我们都会来，”我说。

I had got him the morning papers and the London papers of the previous night, and while we were talking at the carriage window, waiting for the train to start, he was turning them over. His eyes suddenly seemed to catch something in one of them, ‘The Westminster Gazette’, I knew it by the colour, and he grew quite white. He read something intently, groaning to himself, ‘Mein Gott! Mein Gott! So soon! So soon!’ I do not think he remembered me at the moment. Just then the whistle blew, and the train moved off. This recalled him to himself, and he leaned out of the window and waved his hand, calling out, ‘Love to Madam Mina. I shall write so soon as ever I can.’
我给他买了早报和前一天晚上的伦敦报纸，当我们在车厢窗口聊天，等待火车启动时，他正在翻阅这些报纸。他的眼睛突然似乎在其中一本《威斯敏斯特公报》上看到了什么，我从颜色上就知道了，他的脸色变得非常苍白。他专心地读着一些东西，心里呻吟着：“我的天啊！”我的哥特！真快！这么快！”我想他此刻不记得我了。就在这时，汽笛响起，火车开走了。这让他回想起自己，他探出窗外，挥手喊道：“爱米娜女士。”我会尽快写信。

DR. SEWARD’S DIARY
博士。苏厄德的日记

26 September.—Truly there is no such thing as finality. Not a week since I said ‘Finis,’ and yet here I am starting fresh again, or rather going on with the record. Until this afternoon I had no cause to think of what is done. Renfield had become, to all intents, as sane as he ever was. He was already well ahead with his fly business, and he had just started in the spider line also, so he had not been of any trouble to me. I had a letter from Arthur, written on Sunday, and from it I gather that he is bearing up wonderfully well. Quincey Morris is with him, and that is much of a help, for he himself is a bubbling well of good spirits. Quincey wrote me a line too, and from him I hear that Arthur is beginning to recover something of his old buoyancy, so as to them all my mind is at rest. As for myself, I was settling down to my work with the enthusiasm which I used to have for it, so that I might fairly have said that the wound which poor Lucy left on me was becoming cicatrised.
9 月 26 日——确实，不存在所谓的最终结果。距离我说“结束”还不到一周，但我又重新开始了，或者更确切地说，继续录制唱片。直到今天下午我都没有理由去思考做了什么。无论如何，伦菲尔德已经变得和以前一样理智了。他的苍蝇生意已经很领先了，而且他也刚刚开始从事蜘蛛行业，所以他并没有给我带来任何麻烦。我收到了阿瑟周日写的一封信，从中我推测他的承受能力非常好。昆西·莫里斯和他在一起，这很有帮助，因为他本人就是一口精神饱满的井。昆西也给我写了一封信，从他那里我听说亚瑟开始恢复他往日的活力，这样我的心就可以平静下来了。至于我自己，我正带着以前的热情投入到工作中，因此我可以公平地说，可怜的露西留给我的伤口正在结痂。

Everything is, however, now reopened, and what is to be the end God only knows. I have an idea that Van Helsing thinks he knows, too, but he will only let out enough at a time to whet curiosity. He went to Exeter yesterday, and stayed there all night. Today he came back, and almost bounded into the room at about half-past five o’clock, and thrust last night’s ‘Westminster Gazette’ into my hand.
然而，现在一切都重新开放，结局如何只有上帝知道。我有一个想法，范海辛认为他也知道，但他每次只会透露足够多的信息以激发好奇心。他昨天去了埃克塞特，并在那里呆了一夜。今天他回来了，五点半左右就差点跳进房间，把昨晚的《威斯敏斯特公报》塞到我手里。

‘What do you think of that?’ he asked as he stood back and folded his arms.
“你对此有何看法？”他退后一步，交叉双臂问道。

I looked over the paper, for I really did not know what he meant, but he took it from me and pointed out a paragraph about children being decoyed away at Hampstead. It did not convey much to me, until I reached a passage where it described small puncture wounds on their throats. An idea struck me, and I looked up.
我看了看报纸，因为我真的不知道他的意思，但他从我手中接过报纸，并指出了一段关于汉普斯特德儿童被诱骗的段落。它没有向我传达太多信息，直到我到达一段描述他们喉咙上的小刺伤的段落。我灵机一动，抬起头。

‘Well?’ he said.
“怎么样？”他说。

‘It is like poor Lucy’s.’
“这就像可怜的露西的一样。”

‘And what do you make of it?’
“你对此有何看法？”

‘Simply that there is some cause in common. Whatever it was that injured her has injured them.’ I did not quite understand his answer.
“只是有一些共同的原因。不管是什么伤害了她，也伤害了他们。”我不太明白他的回答。

‘That is true indirectly, but not directly.’
“这是间接的，但不是直接的。”

‘How do you mean, Professor?’ I asked. I was a little inclined to take his seriousness lightly, for, after all, four days of rest and freedom from burning, harrowing, anxiety does help to restore one’s spirits, but when I saw his face, it sobered me. Never, even in the midst of our despair about poor Lucy, had he looked more stern.
“教授，你这是什么意思？”我问道。我有点倾向于对他的严肃态度掉以轻心，因为毕竟，四天的休息和摆脱燃烧、痛苦和焦虑的自由确实有助于恢复精神，但当我看到他的脸时，它让我清醒了。即使在我们对可怜的露西感到绝望的时候，他也从未显得如此严厉。

‘Tell me!’ I said. ‘I can hazard no opinion. I do not know what to think, and I have no data on which to found a conjecture.’
“告诉我！”我说。 “我不敢冒险发表任何意见。我不知道该怎么想，也没有数据可以推测。”

‘Do you mean to tell me, friend John, that you have no suspicion as to what poor Lucy died of, not after all the hints given, not only by events, but by me?’
“你的意思是告诉我，朋友约翰，你对可怜的露西的死因毫不怀疑，不仅是事件的暗示，还有我的暗示？”

‘Of nervous prostration following a great loss or waste of blood.’
“大量失血或浪费后的紧张虚脱。”

‘And how was the blood lost or wasted?’ I shook my head.
“那么血液是如何流失或浪费的呢？”我摇摇头。

He stepped over and sat down beside me, and went on, ‘You are a clever man, friend John. You reason well, and your wit is bold, but you are too prejudiced. You do not let your eyes see nor your ears hear, and that which is outside your daily life is not of account to you. Do you not think that there are things which you cannot understand, and yet which are, that some people see things that others cannot? But there are things old and new which must not be contemplated by men’s eyes, because they know, or think they know, some things which other men have told them. Ah, it is the fault of our science that it wants to explain all, and if it explain not, then it says there is nothing to explain. But yet we see around us every day the growth of new beliefs, which think themselves new, and which are yet but the old, which pretend to be young, like the fine ladies at the opera. I suppose now you do not believe in corporeal transference. No? Nor in materialization. No? Nor in astral bodies. No? Nor in the reading of thought. No? Nor in hypnotism …’
他走过去在我旁边坐下，接着说道：“约翰朋友，你是个聪明人。”你的推理很好，你的智慧也很大胆，但你的偏见太重了。你不让你的眼睛看，也不让你的耳朵听，日常生活之外的事情与你无关。你不觉得有些事情你无法理解，但有些人却看到了别人看不到的东西吗？但有些新旧事物是不能用人们的眼睛去思考的，因为他们知道，或者认为他们知道，其他人已经告诉他们的一些事情。啊，我们科学的错就是它想要解释一切，如果它解释不了，那就说明没什么可解释的。然而，我们每天都看到我们周围有新的信仰在增长，它们认为自己是新的，但实际上却是旧的，它们假装年轻，就像歌剧院里的漂亮女士一样。我想现在你不相信肉体移情。不？也不在具体化中。不？也不在星体体中。不？也不在思想的解读中。不？也不是催眠术……”

‘Yes,’ I said. ‘Charcot has proved that pretty well.’
“是的，”我说。 “夏科已经很好地证明了这一点。”

He smiled as he went on, ‘Then you are satisfied as to it. Yes? And of course then you understand how it act, and can follow the mind of the great Charcot, alas that he is no more, into the very soul of the patient that he influence. No? Then, friend John, am I to take it that you simply accept fact, and are satisfied to let from premise to conclusion be a blank? No? Then tell me, for I am a student of the brain, how you accept hypnotism and reject the thought reading. Let me tell you, my friend, that there are things done today in electrical science which would have been deemed unholy by the very man who discovered electricity, who would themselves not so long before been burned as wizards. There are always mysteries in life. Why was it that Methuselah lived nine hundred years, and ‘Old Parr’ one hundred and sixty-nine, and yet that poor Lucy, with four men’s blood in her poor veins, could not live even one day? For, had she live one more day, we could save her. Do you know all the mystery of life and death? Do you know the altogether of comparative anatomy and can say wherefore the qualities of brutes are in some men, and not in others? Can you tell me why, when other spiders die small and soon, that one great spider lived for centuries in the tower of the old Spanish church and grew and grew, till, on descending, he could drink the oil of all the church lamps? Can you tell me why in the Pampas, ay and elsewhere, there are bats that come out at night and open the veins of cattle and horses and suck dry their veins, how in some islands of the Western seas there are bats which hang on the trees all day, and those who have seen describe as like giant nuts or pods, and that when the sailors sleep on the deck, because that it is hot, flit down on them and then, and then in the morning are found dead men, white as even Miss Lucy was?’
他微笑着继续说道：“那你就满意了。”是的？当然，然后你就会明白它是如何运作的，并且可以跟随伟大的夏科（可惜他已经不在了）的思想进入他所影响的病人的灵魂。不？那么，约翰朋友，我是否可以认为你只是简单地接受事实，并且满足于让从前提到结论都是空白？不？然后告诉我，因为我是大脑的学生，你如何接受催眠术并拒绝思想解读。让我告诉你，我的朋友，今天在电学领域所做的一些事情，会被发现电的人视为邪恶的，不久前，他自己也会像巫师一样被烧死。生活中总有一些谜团。为什么玛土撒拉活了九百年，老帕尔活了一百六十九岁，而可怜的露西，她可怜的血管里流着四个男人的血，却连一天也活不了？因为，如果她多活一天，我们就能救她。你知道生与死的全部奥秘吗？你是否了解比较解剖学的全部内容，并能说出为什么有些人具有野兽的品质，而另一些人却没有？你能告诉我为什么当其他蜘蛛很快死去时，一只大蜘蛛却在古老的西班牙教堂的塔楼里生活了几个世纪，并且不断成长，直到下降时，他可以喝掉所有教堂灯的油？ 你能告诉我为什么在潘帕斯草原、哎呀和其他地方，有蝙蝠在晚上出来，打开牛和马的血管，吸干它们的血管，在西海的一些岛屿上，怎么会有蝙蝠挂在牛和马的静脉上？整天都在树上，那些见过的人形容它们像巨大的坚果或豆荚，当水手们睡在甲板上时，因为天气很热，它们就从树上飞下来，然后在早上发现死人，就连露西小姐也这么白？’

‘Good God, Professor!’ I said, starting up. ‘Do you mean to tell me that Lucy was bitten by such a bat, and that such a thing is here in London in the nineteenth century?’
“天啊，教授！”我惊恐地说道。 “你是想告诉我，露西被这样的蝙蝠咬伤了，而十九世纪的伦敦也有这样的事情？”

He waved his hand for silence, and went on, ‘Can you tell me why the tortoise lives more long than generations of men, why the elephant goes on and on till he have sees dynasties, and why the parrot never die only of bite of cat of dog or other complaint? Can you tell me why men believe in all ages and places that there are men and women who cannot die? We all know, because science has vouched for the fact, that there have been toads shut up in rocks for thousands of years, shut in one so small hole that only hold him since the youth of the world. Can you tell me how the Indian fakir can make himself to die and have been buried, and his grave sealed and corn sowed on it, and the corn reaped and be cut and sown and reaped and cut again, and then men come and take away the unbroken seal and that there lie the Indian fakir, not dead, but that rise up and walk amongst them as before?’
他摆摆手示意大家安静，然后继续说道：“你能告诉我，为什么乌龟比几代人都活得更久，为什么大象会不断地活下去，直到看到王朝，为什么鹦鹉不会被蛇咬而死？”猫、狗或其他投诉？你能告诉我为什么各个时代、各个地方的男人都相信有不死的男人和女人吗？我们都知道，因为科学已经证实了这样一个事实，即数千年来，蟾蜍一直被关在岩石中，被关在一个很小的洞里，从世界诞生之初起，它就只能被关在这个小洞里。你能告诉我印度托钵僧如何让自己死去并被埋葬，然后他的坟墓被封起来，并在上面播种玉米，玉米收割、割割、播种、收割、割割，然后人们来拿走未破裂的封印，还有那个印度托钵僧，没有死，而是像以前一样站起来并在他们中间行走？

Here I interrupted him. I was getting bewildered. He so crowded on my mind his list of nature’s eccentricities and possible impossibilities that my imagination was getting fired. I had a dim idea that he was teaching me some lesson, as long ago he used to do in his study at Amsterdam. But he used them to tell me the thing, so that I could have the object of thought in mind all the time. But now I was without his help, yet I wanted to follow him, so I said,
说到这里我打断了他的话。我越来越困惑了。他在我的脑海中塞满了大自然的怪异和可能的不可能的清单，以至于我的想象力被激发了。我隐约觉得他是在给我上一堂课，就像很久以前他在阿姆斯特丹的书房里所做的那样。但他用它们来告诉我事情，这样我就可以一直牢记思想的对象。但现在我没有他的帮助，我却想跟着他，所以我说，

‘Professor, let me be your pet student again. Tell me the thesis, so that I may apply your knowledge as you go on. At present I am going in my mind from point to point as a madman, and not a sane one, follows an idea. I feel like a novice lumbering through a bog in a midst, jumping from one tussock to another in the mere blind effort to move on without knowing where I am going.’
‘教授，让我再次成为您的得意门生吧。告诉我论文，以便我可以在您继续阅读时应用您的知识。目前，我在脑子里像一个疯子一样，而不是一个理智的人，追随一个想法。我感觉自己就像一个新手，在中间的沼泽中缓慢前进，从一个草丛跳到另一个草丛，只是盲目地努力继续前进，而不知道自己要去哪里。

‘That is a good image,’ he said. ‘Well, I shall tell you. My thesis is this, I want you to believe.’
“这是一个很好的形象，”他说。 ‘好吧，我告诉你吧。我的论点是这样的，我希望你相信。

‘To believe what?’
“相信什么？”

‘To believe in things that you cannot. Let me illustrate. I heard once of an American who so defined faith, ‘that faculty which enables us to believe things which we know to be untrue.’ For one, I follow that man. He meant that we shall have an open mind, and not let a little bit of truth check the rush of the big truth, like a small rock does a railway truck. We get the small truth first. Good! We keep him, and we value him, but all the same we must not let him think himself all the truth in the universe.’
‘相信你不能相信的事情。让我举例说明。我曾经听说过一个美国人，他这样定义信仰：“这种能力使我们能够相信我们明知不真实的事情。”首先，我追随那个人。他的意思是，我们应该保持开放的心态，不要让一点点的真理阻碍大真理的冲刷，就像一块小石头阻碍火车卡车一样。我们首先了解小事实。好的！我们保留他，我们重视他，但无论如何，我们不能让他认为自己就是宇宙中的一切真理。

‘Then you want me not to let some previous conviction inure the receptivity of my mind with regard to some strange matter. Do I read your lesson aright?’
‘那么你希望我不要让之前的信念影响了我对某些奇怪事情的接受能力。我读你的课正确吗？

‘Ah, you are my favourite pupil still. It is worth to teach you. Now that you are willing to understand, you have taken the first step to understand. You think then that those so small holes in the children’s throats were made by the same that made the holes in Miss Lucy?’
‘啊，你仍然是我最喜欢的学生。值得教你。既然你愿意去理解，你就已经迈出了理解的第一步。那么你认为孩子们喉咙上的那些小洞是和露西小姐身上的洞一样的吗？

‘I suppose so.’
'我想是这样。'

He stood up and said solemnly, ‘Then you are wrong. Oh, would it were so! But alas! No. It is worse, far, far worse.’
他站起来，郑重地说：“那你就错了。”哦，要是这样就好了！可惜！不。情况更糟，更糟。”

‘In God’s name, Professor Van Helsing, what do you mean?’ I cried.
“看在上帝的份上，范海辛教授，你这是什么意思？”我喊道。

He threw himself with a despairing gesture into a chair, and placed his elbows on the table, covering his face with his hands as he spoke.
他绝望地倒在椅子上，胳膊肘撑在桌子上，说话时用手捂住脸。

‘They were made by Miss Lucy!’
“它们是露西小姐做的！”

Chapter 15
第15章

DR. SEWARD’S DIARY-cont.
博士。苏厄德的日记-续

For a while sheer anger mastered me. It was as if he had during her life struck Lucy on the face. I smote the table hard and rose up as I said to him, ‘Dr. Van Helsing, are you mad?’
有一段时间，纯粹的愤怒控制了我。就好像他在露西生前就打过她的脸一样。我用力拍着桌子站起来，对他说：“博士。”范海辛，你生气了吗？

He raised his head and looked at me, and somehow the tenderness of his face calmed me at once. ‘Would I were!’ he said. ‘Madness were easy to bear compared with truth like this. Oh, my friend, why, think you, did I go so far round, why take so long to tell so simple a thing? Was it because I hate you and have hated you all my life? Was it because I wished to give you pain? Was it that I wanted, now so late, revenge for that time when you saved my life, and from a fearful death? Ah no!’
他抬起头看着我，不知怎的，他脸上的温柔立刻让我平静下来。 “我会的！”他说。与这样的真相相比，疯狂还容易忍受。哦，我的朋友，你想，为什么我走了这么远，为什么要花这么长时间来讲述这么简单的事情？是因为我恨你，恨你一辈子吗？是因为我想让你痛苦吗？是不是我想在这么晚了的时候为你救了我一命、免遭可怕的死亡报仇？啊不！’

‘Forgive me,’ said I.
“原谅我，”我说。

He went on, ‘My friend, it was because I wished to be gentle in the breaking to you, for I know you have loved that so sweet lady. But even yet I do not expect you to believe. It is so hard to accept at once any abstract truth, that we may doubt such to be possible when we have always believed the ‘no’ of it. It is more hard still to accept so sad a concrete truth, and of such a one as Miss Lucy. Tonight I go to prove it. Dare you come with me?’
他继续说道：“我的朋友，那是因为我想在分手时温柔地对待你，因为我知道你爱着这位如此可爱的女士。但即便如此，我也不指望你会相信。立即接受任何抽象的真理是如此困难，以至于当我们一直相信“不”的时候，我们可能会怀疑这种真理是否可能。更难以接受如此悲伤的具体事实，而且是像露西小姐这样的事实。今晚我就去证明这一点。你敢跟我一起去吗？

This staggered me. A man does not like to prove such a truth, Byron excepted from the category, jealousy.
这让我大吃一惊。一个人不喜欢证明这样的真理，拜伦除外，嫉妒。

‘And prove the very truth he most abhorred.’
“并证明他最憎恶的事实。”

He saw my hesitation, and spoke, ‘The logic is simple, no madman’s logic this time, jumping from tussock to tussock in a misty bog. If it not be true, then proof will be relief. At worst it will not harm. If it be true! Ah, there is the dread. Yet every dread should help my cause, for in it is some need of belief. Come, I tell you what I propose. First, that we go off now and see that child in the hospital. Dr. Vincent, of the North Hospital, where the papers say the child is, is a friend of mine, and I think of yours since you were in class at Amsterdam. He will let two scientists see his case, if he will not let two friends. We shall tell him nothing, but only that we wish to learn. And then …’
他看出了我的犹豫，说道：“逻辑很简单，这次不是疯子的逻辑，在迷雾沼泽中从一个草丛跳到另一个草丛。”如果不是真的，那么有证据就会让人松一口气。最坏的情况下也不会造成伤害。如果是真的的话！啊，有恐惧。然而，每一种恐惧都应该有助于我的事业，因为其中需要信仰。来吧，我告诉你我的建议。首先，我们现在就去医院看望那个孩子。报纸上说孩子就在北方医院，文森特医生是我的朋友，自从你在阿姆斯特丹上课以来，我就想起了你的朋友。如果他不让两个朋友看的话，他会让两个科学家看他的案例。我们什么也不告诉他，只告诉他我们想学习。进而 …'

‘And then?’
'进而？'

He took a key from his pocket and held it up. ‘And then we spend the night, you and I, in the churchyard where Lucy lies. This is the key that lock the tomb. I had it from the coffin man to give to Arthur.’
他从口袋里掏出一把钥匙，举了起来。 “然后我们，你和我，在露西躺着的墓地里过夜。这是锁上坟墓的钥匙。我从棺材人那里得到了它，准备送给亚瑟。”

My heart sank within me, for I felt that there was some fearful ordeal before us. I could do nothing, however, so I plucked up what heart I could and said that we had better hasten, as the afternoon was passing.
我的心沉了下去，因为我感到前方有可怕的考验。然而，我无能为力，所以我鼓起勇气说，我们最好快点，因为下午已经过去了。

We found the child awake. It had had a sleep and taken some food, and altogether was going on well. Dr, Vincent took the bandage from its throat, and showed us the punctures. There was no mistaking the similarity to those which had been on Lucy’s throat. They were smaller, and the edges looked fresher, that was all. We asked Vincent to what he attributed them, and he replied that it must have been a bite of some animal, perhaps a rat, but for his own part, he was inclined to think it was one of the bats which are so numerous on the northern heights of London. ‘Out of so many harmless ones,’ he said, ‘there may be some wild specimen from the South of a more malignant species. Some sailor may have brought one home, and it managed to escape, or even from the Zoological Gardens a young one may have got loose, or one be bred there from a vampire. These things do occur, you, know. Only ten days ago a wolf got out, and was, I believe, traced up in this direction. For a week after, the children were playing nothing but Red Riding Hood on the Heath and in every alley in the place until this ‘bloofer lady’ scare came along, since then it has been quite a gala time with them. Even this poor little mite, when he woke up today, asked the nurse if he might go away. When she asked him why he wanted to go, he said he wanted to play with the ‘bloofer lady’.’
我们发现孩子醒了。它已经睡了一觉，吃了一些食物，一切都进展顺利。文森特医生取下了它喉咙上的绷带，给我们看了伤口。毫无疑问，这和露西喉咙里的东西很相似。它们更小，边缘看起来更新鲜，仅此而已。我们问文森特他将它们归因于什么，他回答说，这一定是某种动物咬的，也许是老鼠，但就他自己而言，他倾向于认为这是地球上数量如此之多的蝙蝠中的一种。伦敦北部高地。 “在这么多无害的物种中，”他说，“可能有一些来自南方的野生物种，其恶性程度更高。”一些水手可能把一只带回家，然后它设法逃脱，或者甚至从动物园里一只幼崽可能已经逃脱，或者一只是从吸血鬼那里培育出来的。这些事情确实会发生，你知道。就在十天前，一只狼逃了出来，我相信，它是被追踪到这个方向的。一周后，孩子们在荒原上和每个小巷里都只玩《小红帽》，直到“疯子女士”恐慌出现，从那时起，他们就度过了一段愉快的时光。即使是这个可怜的小家伙，今天醒来时也问护士他是否可以走开。当她问他为什么想去时，他说他想和“布洛弗女士”一起玩。

‘I hope,’ said Van Helsing, ‘that when you are sending the child home you will caution its parents to keep strict watch over it. These fancies to stray are most dangerous, and if the child were to remain out another night, it would probably be fatal. But in any case I suppose you will not let it away for some days?’
“我希望，”范海辛说，“当你送孩子回家时，你会提醒他的父母严格看管他。这些流浪的幻想是最危险的，如果孩子再在外面过夜，可能就会致命。但无论如何，我想你几天之内都不会放过它吧？

‘Certainly not, not for a week at least, longer if the wound is not healed.’
“当然不会，至少一周不会，如果伤口没有愈合的话，时间会更长。”

Our visit to the hospital took more time than we had reckoned on, and the sun had dipped before we came out. When Van Helsing saw how dark it was, he said,
我们去医院的时间比我们预计的要长，在我们出来之前太阳已经落山了。当范海辛看到天有多黑时，他说：

‘There is not hurry. It is more late than I thought. Come, let us seek somewhere that we may eat, and then we shall go on our way.’
‘不着急。比我想象的要晚。来吧，让我们找个地方吃点东西，然后我们就上路了。

We dined at ‘Jack Straw’s Castle’ along with a little crowd of bicyclists and others who were genially noisy. About ten o’clock we started from the inn. It was then very dark, and the scattered lamps made the darkness greater when we were once outside their individual radius. The Professor had evidently noted the road we were to go, for he went on unhesitatingly, but, as for me, I was in quite a mixup as to locality. As we went further, we met fewer and fewer people, till at last we were somewhat surprised when we met even the patrol of horse police going their usual suburban round. At last we reached the wall of the churchyard, which we climbed over. With some little difficulty, for it was very dark, and the whole place seemed so strange to us, we found the Westenra tomb. The Professor took the key, opened the creaky door, and standing back, politely, but quite unconsciously, motioned me to precede him. There was a delicious irony in the offer, in the courtliness of giving preference on such a ghastly occasion. My companion followed me quickly, and cautiously drew the door to, after carefully ascertaining that the lock was a falling, and not a spring one. In the latter case we should have been in a bad plight. Then he fumbled in his bag, and taking out a matchbox and a piece of candle, proceeded to make a light. The tomb in the daytime, and when wreathed with fresh flowers, had looked grim and gruesome enough, but now, some days afterwards, when the flowers hung lank and dead, their whites turning to rust and their greens to browns, when the spider and the beetle had resumed their accustomed dominance, when the time-discoloured stone, and dust-encrusted mortar, and rusty, dank iron, and tarnished brass, and clouded silver-plating gave back the feeble glimmer of a candle, the effect was more miserable and sordid than could have been imagined. It conveyed irresistibly the idea that life, animal life, was not the only thing which could pass away.
我们在“杰克·斯特劳城堡”用餐，周围有一小群骑自行车的人和其他友善地吵闹的人。十点左右，我们从客栈出发。那时天很黑，当我们一旦超出了它们各自的半径时，零星的灯光使黑暗变得更加黑暗。教授显然已经注意到了我们要走的路，因此他毫不犹豫地继续前行，但是，至于我，我却对地点感到相当困惑。随着我们越走越远，遇到的人越来越少，直到最后，我们甚至遇到了平常在郊区巡查的马警巡逻队，这让我们有些惊讶。最后我们到达了教堂墓地的围墙，并翻了过去。由于天色很暗，而且整个地方对我们来说都很陌生，我们费了点小困难才找到了韦斯特拉坟墓。教授拿了钥匙，打开了吱吱作响的门，礼貌地但无意识地往后退了一步，示意我走在他前面。在如此可怕的场合给予优先考虑的礼貌，在这个提议中有一个美妙的讽刺。我的同伴快步跟着我，在仔细确定锁是落锁而不是弹簧锁后，小心翼翼地把门拉上。在后一种情况下，我们的处境应该很糟糕。然后他在包里摸索着，拿出一个火柴盒和一根蜡烛，开始点灯。 白天的坟墓，当鲜花环绕时，看起来已经够冷酷和可怕的了，但现在，几天后，当花朵平直地悬挂着、死去时，它们的白色变​​成了铁锈，绿色变成了棕色，当蜘蛛和甲虫恢复了它们惯常的统治地位，当时间变色的石头、积满灰尘的灰浆、生锈、潮湿的铁、失去光泽的黄铜和浑浊的镀银重新发出蜡烛微弱的微光时，效果更加悲惨而且比想象中的肮脏。它不可抗拒地传达了这样一个观念：生命，动物的生命，并不是唯一会消逝的东西。

Van Helsing went about his work systematically. Holding his candle so that he could read the coffin plates, and so holding it that the sperm dropped in white patches which congealed as they touched the metal, he made assurance of Lucy’s coffin. Another search in his bag, and he took out a turnscrew.
范海辛系统地开展他的工作。他拿着蜡烛，这样他就可以看清棺材板上的内容，并且拿着它，让精子滴成白色的斑点，当它们接触到金属时凝结，他确定了露西的棺材。他又在包里搜了一遍，拿出了一个螺丝钉。

‘What are you going to do?’ I asked.
“你打算做什么？”我问。

‘To open the coffin. You shall yet be convinced.’
‘去开棺材。你一定会被说服的。

Straightway he began taking out the screws, and finally lifted off the lid, showing the casing of lead beneath. The sight was almost too much for me. It seemed to be as much an affront to the dead as it would have been to have stripped off her clothing in her sleep whilst living. I actually took hold of his hand to stop him.
他立即开始取出螺丝，最后打开盖子，露出下面的铅壳。这景象对我来说几乎是难以承受。这似乎是对死者的侮辱，就像在生前在睡梦中脱掉她的衣服一样。我实际上握住了他的手阻止他。

He only said, ‘You shall see, ‘and again fumbling in his bag took out a tiny fret saw. Striking the turnscrew through the lead with a swift downward stab, which made me wince, he made a small hole, which was, however, big enough to admit the point of the saw. I had expected a rush of gas from the week-old corpse. We doctors, who have had to study our dangers, have to become accustomed to such things, and I drew back towards the door. But the Professor never stopped for a moment. He sawed down a couple of feet along one side of the lead coffin, and then across, and down the other side. Taking the edge of the loose flange, he bent it back towards the foot of the coffin, and holding up the candle into the aperture, motioned to me to look.
他只是说，“你会看到的，”然后又在包里摸索着拿出一把小钢丝锯。他用快速向下的刺击将螺丝钉穿过引线，这让我皱起了眉头，他打了一个小洞，然而，这个洞足够大，可以容纳锯尖。我原以为这具一周大的尸体会冒出一股气体。我们这些医生，必须研究我们的危险，必须习惯这些事情，我向门口退了一步。但教授一刻也没有停下来。他沿着铅棺的一侧锯了几英尺，然后穿过另一侧。他抓住松动凸缘的边缘，将其向棺材底部弯曲，然后将蜡烛举到孔中，示意我看。

I drew near and looked. The coffin was empty. It was certainly a surprise to me, and gave me a considerable shock, but Van Helsing was unmoved. He was now more sure than ever of his ground, and so emboldened to proceed in his task. ‘Are you satisfied now, friend John?’ he asked.
我走近一看。棺材是空的。这对我来说确实是一个惊喜，给了我相当大的震撼，但范海辛不为所动。他现在比以往任何时候都更加确信自己的立场，因此更有勇气继续他的任务。 “你现在满意了吗，约翰朋友？”他问道。

I felt all the dogged argumentativeness of my nature awake within me as I answered him, ‘I am satisfied that Lucy’s body is not in that coffin, but that only proves one thing.’
当我回答他时，我感到我天性中所有顽强的好辩都被唤醒了，“我很满意露西的尸体不在棺材里，但这只能证明一件事。”

‘And what is that, friend John?’
“那是什么，约翰朋友？”

‘That it is not there.’
“它不在那儿。”

‘That is good logic,’ he said, ‘so far as it goes. But how do you, how can you, account for it not being there?’
“就目前而言，这是一个很好的逻辑，”他说。但你如何解释它不存在的原因呢？

‘Perhaps a body-snatcher,’ I suggested. ‘Some of the undertaker’s people may have stolen it.’ I felt that I was speaking folly, and yet it was the only real cause which I could suggest.
“也许是一个抢尸者，”我建议道。 “殡仪馆的一些人可能偷了它。”我觉得我说的是愚蠢的话，但这是我能提出的唯一真正原因。

The Professor sighed. ‘Ah well!’ he said,’ we must have more proof. Come with me.’
教授叹了口气。 “啊，好吧！”他说，“我们必须有更多证据。”跟我来。'

He put on the coffin lid again, gathered up all his things and placed them in the bag, blew out the light, and placed the candle also in the bag. We opened the door, and went out. Behind us he closed the door and locked it. He handed me the key, saying, ‘Will you keep it? You had better be assured.’
他重新盖上棺材盖，将所有的东西收起来放进袋子里，吹灭了灯，把蜡烛也放进了袋子里。我们打开门，走了出去。他在我们身后关上门并锁上。他把钥匙递给我，说：‘你愿意保留它吗？你最好放心。

I laughed, it was not a very cheerful laugh, I am bound to say, as I motioned him to keep it. ‘A key is nothing,’ I said, ‘there are many duplicates, and anyhow it is not difficult to pick a lock of this kind.’
我笑了，当我示意他保持笑声时，我必须说，这不是一个非常愉快的笑声。 “钥匙不算什么，”我说，“有很多重复的，无论如何，撬开这种锁并不困难。”

He said nothing, but put the key in his pocket. Then he told me to watch at one side of the churchyard whilst he would watch at the other.
他什么也没说，只是把钥匙放进了口袋里。然后他告诉我在教堂墓地的一侧观察，而他则在另一侧观察。

I took up my place behind a yew tree, and I saw his dark figure move until the intervening headstones and trees hid it from my sight.
我在一棵紫杉树后面找到了位置，我看到他黑色的身影在移动，直到中间的墓碑和树木遮住了我的视线。

It was a lonely vigil. Just after I had taken my place I heard a distant clock strike twelve, and in time came one and two. I was chilled and unnerved, and angry with the Professor for taking me on such an errand and with myself for coming. I was too cold and too sleepy to be keenly observant, and not sleepy enough to betray my trust, so altogether I had a dreary, miserable time.
这是一次孤独的守夜。就在我就位后，我听到远处的钟声敲响了十二点，一两点很快就到了。我感到寒冷和不安，对教授带我去执行这样的任务感到愤怒，对自己的到来感到愤怒。我太冷了，太困了，无法敏锐地观察，也没有困到背叛我的信任，所以总的来说，我度过了一段沉闷而痛苦的时光。

Suddenly, as I turned round, I thought I saw something like a white streak, moving between two dark yew trees at the side of the churchyard farthest from the tomb. At the same time a dark mass moved from the Professor’s side of the ground, and hurriedly went towards it. Then I too moved, but I had to go round headstones and railed-off tombs, and I stumbled over graves. The sky was overcast, and somewhere far off an early cock crew. A little ways off, beyond a line of scattered juniper trees, which marked the pathway to the church, a white dim figure flitted in the direction of the tomb. The tomb itself was hidden by trees, and I could not see where the figure had disappeared. I heard the rustle of actual movement where I had first seen the white figure, and coming over, found the Professor holding in his arms a tiny child. When he saw me he held it out to me, and said, ‘Are you satisfied now?’
突然，当我转身时，我觉得我看到了类似白色条纹的东西，在距离坟墓最远的墓地一侧的两棵深色紫杉树之间移动。与此同时，一团黑团从教授这边的地面上移动，急忙朝教授这边袭来。然后我也移动了，但我必须绕过墓碑和用栏杆围起来的坟墓，我被坟墓绊倒了。天空阴沉沉的，远处传来早起的鸡鸣声。不远的地方，在通往教堂的道路上，一排分散的杜松树后面，一个白色的模糊身影向坟墓的方向掠过。坟墓本身被树木遮住了，看不到人影消失的地方。我第一次看到白色人影的地方就听到了实际运动的沙沙声，走过去，发现教授怀里抱着一个小孩子。当他看到我时，他把它递给我，说：“你现在满意了吗？”

‘No,’ I said, in a way that I felt was aggressive.
“不，”我说，语气让我觉得很咄咄逼人。

‘Do you not see the child?’
“你没看到孩子吗？”

‘Yes, it is a child, but who brought it here? And is it wounded?’
‘是的，这是一个孩子，但是谁把它带来这里的？它受伤了吗？

‘We shall see,’ said the Professor, and with one impulse we took our way out of the churchyard, he carrying the sleeping child.
“我们拭目以待吧。”教授说，我们一冲动就抱着熟睡的孩子走出了教堂墓地。

When we had got some little distance away, we went into a clump of trees, and struck a match, and looked at the child’s throat. It was without a scratch or scar of any kind.
当我们走了一段距离后，我们走进一丛树，划一根火柴，查看孩子的喉咙。它没有任何划痕或疤痕。

‘Was I right?’ I asked triumphantly.
“我说得对吗？”我得意地问道。

‘We were just in time,’ said the Professor thankfully.
“我们来得正是时候，”教授庆幸地说。

We had now to decide what we were to do with the child, and so consulted about it. If we were to take it to a police station we should have to give some account of our movements during the night. At least, we should have had to make some statement as to how we had come to find the child. So finally we decided that we would take it to the Heath, and when we heard a policeman coming, would leave it where he could not fail to find it. We would then seek our way home as quickly as we could. All fell out well. At the edge of Hampstead Heath we heard a policeman’s heavy tramp, and laying the child on the pathway, we waited and watched until he saw it as he flashed his lantern to and fro. We heard his exclamation of astonishment, and then we went away silently. By good chance we got a cab near the ‘Spainiards,’ and drove to town.
我们现在必须决定如何处理这个孩子，因此进行了协商。如果我们要把它带到警察局，我们就必须提供一些我们夜间的活动情况。至少，我们应该就我们如何找到这个孩子做出一些声明。所以最后我们决定把它带到希思，当我们听到警察来的时候，就把它放在他不可能找不到的地方。然后我们会尽快寻找回家的路。一切顺利。在汉普斯特德荒原的边缘，我们听到了警察沉重的脚步声，我们把孩子放在小路上，等待着，直到他看到了他来回闪烁的灯笼。我们听到他惊讶的叫声，然后默默地走开了。很偶然的机会，我们在“西班牙人”附近打到了一辆出租车，然后开车进城。

I cannot sleep, so I make this entry. But I must try to get a few hours’ sleep, as Van Helsing is to call for me at noon. He insists that I go with him on another expedition.
我睡不着，所以我写了这篇文章。但我必须努力睡几个小时，因为范海辛中午会来找我。他坚持要我和他一起去另一次探险。

27 September.—It was two o’clock before we found a suitable opportunity for our attempt. The funeral held at noon was all completed, and the last stragglers of the mourners had taken themselves lazily away, when, looking carefully from behind a clump of alder trees, we saw the sexton lock the gate after him. We knew that we were safe till morning did we desire it, but the Professor told me that we should not want more than an hour at most. Again I felt that horrid sense of the reality of things, in which any effort of imagination seemed out of place, and I realized distinctly the perils of the law which we were incurring in our unhallowed work. Besides, I felt it was all so useless. Outrageous as it was to open a leaden coffin, to see if a woman dead nearly a week were really dead, it now seemed the height of folly to open the tomb again, when we knew, from the evidence of our own eyesight, that the coffin was empty. I shrugged my shoulders, however, and rested silent, for Van Helsing had a way of going on his own road, no matter who remonstrated. He took the key, opened the vault, and again courteously motioned me to precede. The place was not so gruesome as last night, but oh, how unutterably mean looking when the sunshine streamed in. Van Helsing walked over to Lucy’s coffin, and I followed. He bent over and again forced back the leaden flange, and a shock of surprise and dismay shot through me.
9 月 27 日——两点钟后，我们才找到合适的尝试机会。中午举行的葬礼全部结束，最后一批掉队的哀悼者也懒洋洋地走了，我们从一丛桤木后面仔细一看，看到教堂司事在他身后锁上了大门。我们知道，如果我们愿意的话，直到早上我们都是安全的，但教授告诉我，我们最多不应该超过一个小时。我再次感受到事物现实的可怕感觉，任何想象的努力都显得格格不入，我清楚地意识到我们在不神圣的工作中所遭受的法律危险。而且，我觉得这一切都是那么无用。尽管打开一个铅棺，看看一个死去近一周的女人是否真的死了，这是令人愤慨的，但现在，当我们从自己的肉眼所见的证据中知道，再次打开坟墓时，似乎是愚蠢至极的。棺材是空的。然而，我耸了耸肩，沉默了，因为范海辛有办法走自己的路，不管谁抗议。他拿了钥匙，打开金库，再次礼貌地示意我先走。这个地方并不像昨晚那么可怕，但是哦，当阳光照进来时，看起来是多么的卑鄙。范海辛走到露西的棺材旁，我跟在后面。他弯下腰​​，再次将铅制的凸缘推回原位，我感到一阵惊讶和沮丧。

There lay Lucy, seemingly just as we had seen her the night before her funeral. She was, if possible, more radiantly beautiful than ever, and I could not believe that she was dead. The lips were red, nay redder than before, and on the cheeks was a delicate bloom.
露西躺在那里，看起来就像我们在葬礼前一天晚上看到的一样。如果可能的话，她比以前更加美丽，我简直不敢相信她已经死了。嘴唇红了，不，比之前还要红，脸颊上泛着娇艳的花朵。

‘Is this a juggle?’ I said to him.
“这是杂耍吗？”我对他说。

‘Are you convinced now?’ said the Professor, in response, and as he spoke he put over his hand, and in a way that made me shudder, pulled back the dead lips and showed the white teeth. ‘See,’ he went on, ‘they are even sharper than before. With this and this,’ and he touched one of the canine teeth and that below it, ‘the little children can be bitten. Are you of belief now, friend John?’
“你现在相信了吗？”教授回答道，一边说话，一边把手放在一边，以一种让我不寒而栗的方式，拉开了死气沉沉的嘴唇，露出了洁白的牙齿。 “看，”他继续说道，“它们比以前更敏锐了。”这样，这样，”他摸了摸其中一颗犬齿及其下面的那颗，“小孩子就可以被咬了。约翰朋友，你现在相信了吗？

Once more argumentative hostility woke within me. I could not accept such an overwhelming idea as he suggested. So, with an attempt to argue of which I was even at the moment ashamed, I said, ‘She may have been placed here since last night.’
争论的敌意再次在我内心苏醒。我无法接受他提出的如此压倒性的想法。因此，我试图争辩，尽管此刻我什至感到羞愧，但我说：“她可能从昨晚起就被安置在这里了。”

‘Indeed? That is so, and by whom?’
'的确？是这样，是谁做的？

‘I do not know. Someone has done it.’
'我不知道。有人做到了。

‘And yet she has been dead one week. Most peoples in that time would not look so.’
“然而她已经死了一个星期了。当时的大多数人看起来都不会这样。

I had no answer for this, so was silent. Van Helsing did not seem to notice my silence. At any rate, he showed neither chagrin nor triumph. He was looking intently at the face of the dead woman, raising the eyelids and looking at the eyes, and once more opening the lips and examining the teeth. Then he turned to me and said,
我对此没有答案，所以沉默了。范海辛似乎没有注意到我的沉默。无论如何，他既没有表现出懊恼，也没有表现出胜利。他全神贯注地看着死去女人的脸，抬起眼皮看着眼睛，再次张开嘴唇检查牙齿。然后他转向我说：

‘Here, there is one thing which is different from all recorded. Here is some dual life that is not as the common. She was bitten by the vampire when she was in a trance, sleep-walking, oh, you start. You do not know that, friend John, but you shall know it later, and in trance could he best come to take more blood. In trance she dies, and in trance she is UnDead, too. So it is that she differ from all other. Usually when the UnDead sleep at home,’ as he spoke he made a comprehensive sweep of his arm to designate what to a vampire was ‘home’, ‘their face show what they are, but this so sweet that was when she not UnDead she go back to the nothings of the common dead. There is no malign there, see, and so it make hard that I must kill her in her sleep.’
‘这里，有一件事与所有记录的不同。这里有一些不寻常的双重生活。她在恍惚中梦游的时候被吸血鬼咬了，哦，你开始吧。你不知道这一点，朋友约翰，但你稍后就会知道，在恍惚中他最好来抽更多的血。在恍惚中她死了，在恍惚中她也是亡灵。这就是她与其他人不同的地方。通常当不死族在家里睡觉时，”当他说话时，他用手臂全面地扫了一下，以指定吸血鬼的“家”，“他们的脸显示了他们的身份，但这是如此甜蜜，当她不是不死族时，她回到普通死者的虚无之中。瞧，那里没有恶意，所以我很难在她睡梦中杀死她。

This turned my blood cold, and it began to dawn upon me that I was accepting Van Helsing’s theories. But if she were really dead, what was there of terror in the idea of killing her?
这让我的血液变冷，我开始意识到我正在接受范海辛的理论。但如果她真的死了，杀掉她还有什么可怕的呢？

He looked up at me, and evidently saw the change in my face, for he said almost joyously, ‘Ah, you believe now?’
他抬头看着我，显然看到了我脸上的变化，他几乎高兴地说：“啊，你现在相信了吗？”

I answered, ‘Do not press me too hard all at once. I am willing to accept. How will you do this bloody work?’
我回答说：‘别一下子逼我太紧。我愿意接受。你将如何完成这项该死的工作？

‘I shall cut off her head and fill her mouth with garlic, and I shall drive a stake through her body.’
“我要砍下她的头，用大蒜填满她的嘴，然后用一根木桩刺穿她的身体。”

It made me shudder to think of so mutilating the body of the woman whom I had loved. And yet the feeling was not so strong as I had expected. I was, in fact, beginning to shudder at the presence of this being, this UnDead, as Van Helsing called it, and to loathe it. Is it possible that love is all subjective, or all objective?
一想到如此残害我所爱的女人的身体，我就感到不寒而栗。然而这种感觉并没有我想象的那么强烈。事实上，我开始对这个生物的存在感到不寒而栗，这个不死生物，正如范海辛所说的那样，并且厌恶它。爱情有可能全是主观的，还是全是客观的？

I waited a considerable time for Van Helsing to begin, but he stood as if wrapped in thought. Presently he closed the catch of his bag with a snap, and said,
我等了很长时间范海辛才开始，但他站在那里，好像陷入了沉思。不久，他啪地一声合上了包的扣子，说道：

‘I have been thinking, and have made up my mind as to what is best. If I did simply follow my inclining I would do now, at this moment, what is to be done. But there are other things to follow, and things that are thousand times more difficult in that them we do not know. This is simple. She have yet no life taken, though that is of time, and to act now would be to take danger from her forever. But then we may have to want Arthur, and how shall we tell him of this? If you, who saw the wounds on Lucy’s throat, and saw the wounds so similar on the child’s at the hospital, if you, who saw the coffin empty last night and full today with a woman who have not change only to be more rose and more beautiful in a whole week, after she die, if you know of this and know of the white figure last night that brought the child to the churchyard, and yet of your own senses you did not believe, how then, can I expect Arthur, who know none of those things, to believe?
“我一直在思考，并决定什么是最好的。如果我只是按照自己的意愿行事，那么我现在、此时此刻就会做该做的事。但还有其他事情要做，而且这些事情比我们不知道的困难千倍。这很简单。她还没有被夺走生命，尽管那是时候了，现在采取行动就意味着永远摆脱她的危险。但我们可能需要亚瑟，我们该如何告诉他呢？如果你在医院里看到了露西喉咙上的伤口，在孩子身上看到了如此相似的伤口，如果你看到了棺材昨晚是空的，而今天却装满了，而这个女人并没有改变，只是变得更加玫瑰和在她死后的整整一个星期里，你会变得更加美丽，如果你知道这件事，知道昨晚把孩子带到教堂墓地的那个白色身影，但你自己的感觉却不相信，那么，我怎么能指望亚瑟呢？ ，谁对这些事情一无所知，相信吗？

‘He doubted me when I took him from her kiss when she was dying. I know he has forgiven me because in some mistaken idea I have done things that prevent him say goodbye as he ought, and he may think that in some more mistaken idea this woman was buried alive, and that in most mistake of all we have killed her. He will then argue back that it is we, mistaken ones, that have killed her by our ideas, and so he will be much unhappy always. Yet he never can be sure, and that is the worst of all. And he will sometimes think that she he loved was buried alive, and that will paint his dreams with horrors of what she must have suffered, and again, he will think that we may be right, and that his so beloved was, after all, an UnDead. No! I told him once, and since then I learn much. Now, since I know it is all true, a hundred thousand times more do I know that he must pass through the bitter waters to reach the sweet. He, poor fellow, must have one hour that will make the very face of heaven grow black to him, then we can act for good all round and send him peace. My mind is made up. Let us go. You return home for tonight to your asylum, and see that all be well. As for me, I shall spend the night here in this churchyard in my own way. Tomorrow night you will come to me to the Berkeley Hotel at ten of the clock. I shall send for Arthur to come too, and also that so fine young man of America that gave his blood. Later we shall all have work to do. I come with you so far as Piccadilly and there dine, for I must be back here before the sun set.’
“当我在她临终时将他从她的吻中夺走时，他对我产生了怀疑。我知道他已经原谅了我，因为在某种错误的想法中，我做了一些事情，阻止了他应有的告别，他可能会认为，在某种更错误的想法中，这个女人被活埋了，而在大多数错误中，我们杀死了他。她。然后他会反驳说是我们这些错误的人用我们的想法杀死了她，所以他会一直很不高兴。但他永远无法确定，这是最糟糕的。有时他会认为他所爱的她被活埋了，这会在他的梦中描绘出她所遭受的恐怖，而且，他会再次认为我们可能是对的，而他如此心爱的人毕竟是，一个不死族。不！我告诉过他一次，从那以后我学到了很多。现在，既然我知道这一切都是真的，我就更加知道他必须经过苦水才能到达甘甜。他，可怜的家伙，必须有一个小时的时间，让他觉得天堂的脸都变黑了，然后我们才能全面行善，给他带来平安。我的心意已决。让我们去。今晚你回到庇护所，看到一切都好。至于我，我将以我自己的方式在这墓地里过夜。明天晚上十点你到伯克利旅馆来找我。我会派人去叫亚瑟也来，还有那位献出鲜血的美国优秀年轻人。稍后我们都会有工作要做。我陪你一直到皮卡迪利，然后在那里吃饭，因为我必须在日落之前回到这里。

So we locked the tomb and came away, and got over the wall of the churchyard, which was not much of a task, and drove back to Piccadilly.
于是我们锁上坟墓就离开了，翻过教堂墓地的围墙，这并不是什么大事，然后开车回到皮卡迪利。

NOTE LEFT BY VAN HELSING IN HIS PORTMANTEAU, BERKELEY HOTEL DIRECTED TO JOHN SEWARD, M. D. (Not Delivered)
范·海辛在伯克利波特曼托酒店留下的写给医学博士约翰·苏厄德的便条（未送达）

27 September
9 月 27 日

‘Friend John,
‘朋友约翰，

‘I write this in case anything should happen. I go alone to watch in that churchyard. It pleases me that the UnDead, Miss Lucy, shall not leave tonight, that so on the morrow night she may be more eager. Therefore I shall fix some things she like not, garlic and a crucifix, and so seal up the door of the tomb. She is young as UnDead, and will heed. Moreover, these are only to prevent her coming out. They may not prevail on her wanting to get in, for then the UnDead is desperate, and must find the line of least resistance, whatsoever it may be. I shall be at hand all the night from sunset till after sunrise, and if there be aught that may be learned I shall learn it. For Miss Lucy or from her, I have no fear, but that other to whom is there that she is UnDead, he have not the power to seek her tomb and find shelter. He is cunning, as I know from Mr. Jonathan and from the way that all along he have fooled us when he played with us for Miss Lucy’s life, and we lost, and in many ways the UnDead are strong. He have always the strength in his hand of twenty men, even we four who gave our strength to Miss Lucy it also is all to him. Besides, he can summon his wolf and I know not what. So if it be that he came thither on this night he shall find me. But none other shall, until it be too late. But it may be that he will not attempt the place. There is no reason why he should. His hunting ground is more full of game than the churchyard where the UnDead woman sleeps, and the one old man watch.
“我写这篇文章是为了以防万一发生什么事情。我一个人去那个墓地看。我很高兴露西小姐今晚不会离开亡灵，这样第二天晚上她可能会更加渴望。所以我要修一些她不喜欢的东西，大蒜和十字架，然后把墓门封起来。她和亡灵一样年轻，并且会留意的。而且，这些只是为了阻止她出来。他们可能无法说服她想要进去，因为那时亡灵会绝望，必须找到阻力最小的路线，无论它是什么。从日落到日出，我将整夜待在身边，如果有什么可以学到的，我会学习的。对于露西小姐或她来说，我并不担心，但对于其他人来说，她是不死的，他没有权力寻找她的坟墓并找到庇护所。他很狡猾，正如我从乔纳森先生那里了解到的那样，也从他一直以来愚弄我们的方式来看，当他和我们玩弄露西小姐的生命时，我们输了，而且在很多方面，不死族都很强大。他手里始终握着二十个人的力量，就连我们四个人把力量给了露西小姐，也是全给了他。此外，他可以召唤他的狼，但我不知道是什么。因此，如果他今晚来到那里，他就会找到我。但其他人都不会这样做，直到为时已晚。但他可能不会尝试这个地方。他没有理由这样做。他的狩猎场比亡灵女人睡觉的墓地和一位老人观看的墓地更充满了猎物。

‘Therefore I write this in case … Take the papers that are with this, the diaries of Harker and the rest, and read them, and then find this great UnDead, and cut off his head and burn his heart or drive a stake through it, so that the world may rest from him.
“因此，我写下这篇文章是为了以防万一……拿起随附的文件，哈克和其他人的日记，阅读它们，然后找到这个伟大的亡灵，砍下他的头，烧毁他的心脏，或者用一根木桩穿过它，让世界远离他。

‘If it be so, farewell.
「既然如此，那就再见了。」

‘VAN HELSING.’
“范海辛。”

DR. SEWARD’S DIARY
博士。苏厄德的日记

28 September.—It is wonderful what a good night’s sleep will do for one. Yesterday I was almost willing to accept Van Helsing’s monstrous ideas, but now they seem to start out lurid before me as outrages on common sense. I have no doubt that he believes it all. I wonder if his mind can have become in any way unhinged. Surely there must be some rational explanation of all these mysterious things. Is it possible that the Professor can have done it himself? He is so abnormally clever that if he went off his head he would carry out his intent with regard to some fixed idea in a wonderful way. I am loathe to think it, and indeed it would be almost as great a marvel as the other to find that Van Helsing was mad, but anyhow I shall watch him carefully. I may get some light on the mystery.
9 月 28 日——睡个好觉对一个人来说是一件美妙的事情。昨天我几乎愿意接受范海辛的可怕想法，但现在它们在我面前似乎开始显得耸人听闻，因为它们是对常识的侮辱。我毫不怀疑他相信这一切。我想知道他的思想是否会变得精神错乱。当然，所有这些神秘的事情一定有一些合理的解释。难道是教授自己做的吗？他非常聪明，如果他发疯的话，他会以一种奇妙的方式实现他对某个固定想法的意图。我不愿意这样想，事实上，发现范海辛疯了几乎和其他人一样令人惊奇，但无论如何我都会仔细观察他。我也许能解开这个谜团。

29 September.—Last night, at a little before ten o’clock, Arthur and Quincey came into Van Helsing’s room. He told us all what he wanted us to do, but especially addressing himself to Arthur, as if all our wills were centred in his. He began by saying that he hoped we would all come with him too, ‘for,’ he said, ‘there is a grave duty to be done there. You were doubtless surprised at my letter?’ This query was directly addressed to Lord Godalming.
9 月 29 日——昨晚，十点左右，亚瑟和昆西走进范海辛的房间。他告诉我们他希望我们做什么，特别是对亚瑟说，就好像我们所有的意志都以他的意志为中心。他首先说，他希望我们也能和他一起去，“因为，”他说，“那里有一项重大的职责要做。”你无疑对我的信感到惊讶？”这个问题是直接向戈达尔明勋爵提出的。

‘I was. It rather upset me for a bit. There has been so much trouble around my house of late that I could do without any more. I have been curious, too, as to what you mean.
'我曾是。这让我有点心烦意乱。最近我家周围出了很多麻烦，我再也不用担心了。我也很好奇你的意思。

‘Quincey and I talked it over, but the more we talked, the more puzzled we got, till now I can say for myself that I’m about up a tree as to any meaning about anything.’
“昆西和我讨论了这个问题，但我们讨论得越多，我们就越困惑，直到现在我可以对自己说，我对任何事情的意义都快要上树了。”

‘Me too,’ said Quincey Morris laconically.
“我也是，”昆西·莫里斯简洁地说。

‘Oh,’ said the Professor, ‘then you are nearer the beginning, both of you, than friend John here, who has to go a long way back before he can even get so far as to begin.’
“哦，”教授说，“那么你们俩比这里的朋友约翰更接近开始了，约翰必须先走很长一段路才能开始。”

It was evident that he recognized my return to my old doubting frame of mind without my saying a word. Then, turning to the other two, he said with intense gravity,
显然，我什么也没说，他就看出我又恢复了原来的怀疑心态。然后，他转向另外两人，严肃地说：

‘I want your permission to do what I think good this night. It is, I know, much to ask, and when you know what it is I propose to do you will know, and only then how much. Therefore may I ask that you promise me in the dark, so that afterwards, though you may be angry with me for a time, I must not disguise from myself the possibility that such may be, you shall not blame yourselves for anything.’
“我希望你允许我今晚做我认为好的事情。我知道，有很多问题要问，当你知道我打算做什么时，你就会知道，而且只有这样才能知道多少。因此，我请你在黑暗中向我保证，这样，尽管你可能会生我的气一段时间，但我绝不能向自己隐瞒这种可能性，你也不要为任何事情责怪自己。

‘That’s frank anyhow,’ broke in Quincey. ‘I’ll answer for the Professor. I don’t quite see his drift, but I swear he’s honest, and that’s good enough for me.’
“无论如何，这很坦率。”昆西插话道。 “我来替教授回答。”我不太明白他的想法，但我发誓他是诚实的，这对我来说就足够了。

‘I thank you, Sir,’ said Van Helsing proudly. ‘I have done myself the honour of counting you one trusting friend, and such endorsement is dear to me.’ He held out a hand, which Quincey took.
“我谢谢你，先生，”范海辛自豪地说。 “我很荣幸将你视为一位值得信赖的朋友，这样的认可对我来说很珍贵。”他伸出一只手，昆西握着。

Then Arthur spoke out, ‘Dr. Van Helsing, I don’t quite like to ‘buy a pig in a poke’, as they say in Scotland, and if it be anything in which my honour as a gentleman or my faith as a Christian is concerned, I cannot make such a promise. If you can assure me that what you intend does not violate either of these two, then I give my consent at once, though for the life of me, I cannot understand what you are driving at.’
然后亚瑟开口说道：“博士。”范海辛，我不太喜欢像苏格兰人所说的那样“一举两得”，如果涉及到我作为绅士的荣誉或作为基督徒的信仰，我就不能做出这样的事情。一个承诺。如果你能向我保证你的意图不违反这两者中的任何一个，那么我会立即同意，尽管我一生都无法理解你的意图。

‘I accept your limitation,’ said Van Helsing, ‘and all I ask of you is that if you feel it necessary to condemn any act of mine, you will first consider it well and be satisfied that it does not violate your reservations.’
“我接受你的限制，”范海辛说，“我对你的要求就是，如果你觉得有必要谴责我的任何行为，你首先要好好考虑一下，并确信它没有违反你的保留意见。”

‘Agreed!’ said Arthur. ‘That is only fair. And now that the pourparlers are over, may I ask what it is we are to do?’
“同意！”阿瑟说。 ‘这才公平。现在浇水结束了，我可以问一下我们要做什么吗？

‘I want you to come with me, and to come in secret, to the churchyard at Kingstead.’
“我要你跟我一起去，秘密地去金斯斯特德的教堂墓地。”

Arthur’s face fell as he said in an amazed sort of way,
亚瑟脸色沉了下来，用一种惊讶的语气说道：

‘Where poor Lucy is buried?’
“可怜的露西埋在哪里？”

The Professor bowed.
教授鞠了一躬。

Arthur went on, ‘And when there?’
亚瑟继续说道：“什么时候到的？”

‘To enter the tomb!’
“进入坟墓！”

Arthur stood up. ‘Professor, are you in earnest, or is it some monstrous joke? Pardon me, I see that you are in earnest.’ He sat down again, but I could see that he sat firmly and proudly, as one who is on his dignity. There was silence until he asked again, ‘And when in the tomb?’
亚瑟站了起来。 “教授，您是认真的，还是只是一个荒唐的玩笑？”请原谅，我看出你是认真的。”他又坐下了，但我看得出来，他坐得坚定而自豪，就像一个有尊严的人。一阵沉默，直到他再次问道：“什么时候在坟墓里？”

‘To open the coffin.’
“打开棺材。”

‘This is too much!’ he said, angrily rising again. ‘I am willing to be patient in all things that are reasonable, but in this, this desecration of the grave, of one who …’ He fairly choked with indignation.
“这太过分了！”他说着，再次愤怒地站了起来。 “我愿意对一切合理的事情保持耐心，但在这件事上，这种对坟墓的亵渎，对一个……的人的亵渎”他气得说不出话来。

The Professor looked pityingly at him. ‘If I could spare you one pang, my poor friend,’ he said, ‘God knows I would. But this night our feet must tread in thorny paths, or later, and for ever, the feet you love must walk in paths of flame!’
教授怜悯地看着他。 “如果我能让你免受一点痛苦，我可怜的朋友，”他说，“上帝知道我会的。”但今晚我们的脚必须走在荆棘路上，或者以后，永远，你所爱的脚必须走在火焰的路上！

Arthur looked up with set white face and said, ‘Take care, sir, take care!’
亚瑟抬起头，脸色惨白，说道：“保重，先生，保重！”

‘Would it not be well to hear what I have to say?’ said Van Helsing. ‘And then you will at least know the limit of my purpose. Shall I go on?’
“听听我要说的话不是很好吗？”范海辛说道。 ‘然后你至少会知道我的目的的限度。我要继续吗？

‘That’s fair enough,’ broke in Morris.
“这很公平，”莫里斯插话道。

After a pause Van Helsing went on, evidently with an effort, ‘Miss Lucy is dead, is it not so? Yes! Then there can be no wrong to her. But if she be not dead …’
范海辛停顿了一下，显然很努力地继续说道：“露西小姐死了，不是吗？”是的！那么她就不可能有错。但如果她没有死的话……”

Arthur jumped to his feet, ‘Good God!’ he cried. ‘What do you mean? Has there been any mistake, has she been buried alive?’ He groaned in anguish that not even hope could soften.
亚瑟跳了起来，“天啊！”他喊道。 '你是什么意思？是不是出了什么差错，她是被活埋了吗？”他痛苦地呻吟着，连希望都无法软化。

‘I did not say she was alive, my child. I did not think it. I go no further than to say that she might be UnDead.’
“我没说她还活着，我的孩子。我没想到。我只想说她可能是亡灵。

‘UnDead! Not alive! What do you mean? Is this all a nightmare, or what is it?’
‘不死者！没活着！你是什​​么意思？这一切都是一场噩梦，还是什么？

‘There are mysteries which men can only guess at, which age by age they may solve only in part. Believe me, we are now on the verge of one. But I have not done. May I cut off the head of dead Miss Lucy?’
“有些谜题人们只能猜测，随着年龄的增长，他们也只能部分解开。相信我，我们现在正处于一个边缘。但我还没有做。我可以砍下死去的露西小姐的头吗？

‘Heavens and earth, no!’ cried Arthur in a storm of passion. ‘Not for the wide world will I consent to any mutilation of her dead body. Dr. Van Helsing, you try me too far. What have I done to you that you should torture me so? What did that poor, sweet girl do that you should want to cast such dishonour on her grave? Are you mad, that you speak of such things, or am I mad to listen to them? Don’t dare think more of such a desecration. I shall not give my consent to anything you do. I have a duty to do in protecting her grave from outrage, and by God, I shall do it!’
“天上地下，不！”亚瑟在激情风暴中喊道。 “为了全世界，我不会同意对她的尸体进行任何残害。范海辛博士，你对我的考验太过分了。我到底对你做了什么，你要这样折磨我？那个可怜的可爱的女孩做了什么让你想在她的坟墓上丢下这样的耻辱？你说这些话是生气了，还是我听这些话生气了？这种亵渎之事不敢多想。我不会同意你做的任何事。我有责任保护她的坟墓免遭愤怒，上帝发誓，我会做到的！

Van Helsing rose up from where he had all the time been seated, and said, gravely and sternly, ‘My Lord Godalming, I too, have a duty to do, a duty to others, a duty to you, a duty to the dead, and by God, I shall do it! All I ask you now is that you come with me, that you look and listen, and if when later I make the same request you do not be more eager for its fulfillment even than I am, then, I shall do my duty, whatever it may seem to me. And then, to follow your Lordship’s wishes I shall hold myself at your disposal to render an account to you, when and where you will.’ His voice broke a little, and he went on with a voice full of pity.
范海辛从他一直坐的地方站起来，严肃而严厉地说：“戈达尔明大人，我也有责任要做，对他人的责任，对你的责任，对死者的责任，上帝发誓，我一定会做到的！我现在所要求的就是你跟我一起来，你看，听，如果以后我提出同样的要求时，你不比我更渴望它的实现，那么，我将尽我的职责，无论如何在我看来可能是这样。然后，为了遵照大人的意愿，我将听从您的安排，在您愿意的时间和地点向您交代。”他的声音有点哽咽，然后用充满怜悯的声音继续说道。

‘But I beseech you, do not go forth in anger with me. In a long life of acts which were often not pleasant to do, and which sometimes did wring my heart, I have never had so heavy a task as now. Believe me that if the time comes for you to change your mind towards me, one look from you will wipe away all this so sad hour, for I would do what a man can to save you from sorrow. Just think. For why should I give myself so much labor and so much of sorrow? I have come here from my own land to do what I can of good, at the first to please my friend John, and then to help a sweet young lady, whom too, I come to love. For her, I am ashamed to say so much, but I say it in kindness, I gave what you gave, the blood of my veins. I gave it, I who was not, like you, her lover, but only her physician and her friend. I gave her my nights and days, before death, after death, and if my death can do her good even now, when she is the dead UnDead, she shall have it freely.’ He said this with a very grave, sweet pride, and Arthur was much affected by it.
‘但我恳求你，不要对我生气。在漫长的一生中，我所做的事情常常令人不愉快，有时甚至让我心痛不已，我从来没有像现在这样承担过如此繁重的任务。相信我，如果你对我改变主意的时候到了，你的一个眼神就会抹去这一切如此悲伤的时刻，因为我会尽一个人能做的来把你从悲伤中拯救出来。想一想。为什么我要给自己付出那么多的劳苦和那么多的悲伤呢？我从自己的土地来到这里，是为了尽我所能，首先是为了取悦我的朋友约翰，然后是为了帮助一位可爱的年轻女士，我也爱上了她。为了她，我羞于说这么多，但我善意地说，我给了你所给予的，我血管里的血液。我给了它，我不像你一样是她的情人，而只是她的医生和她的朋友。我把我的日日夜夜都给了她，无论是在死前还是死后，如果我的死对她现在也有好处，当她是死去的不死者时，她就可以自由地拥有它。”他带着一种非常严肃、甜蜜的骄傲说道，亚瑟深受其影响。

He took the old man’s hand and said in a broken voice, ‘Oh, it is hard to think of it, and I cannot understand, but at least I shall go with you and wait.’
他拉着老人的手，用断断续续的声音说道：“哦，这很难想象，我也无法理解，但至少我会和你一起去等待。”

Chapter 16
第16章

DR SEWARD’S DIARY-cont.
苏厄德博士的日记-续

It was just a quarter before twelve o’clock when we got into the churchyard over the low wall. The night was dark with occasional gleams of moonlight between the dents of the heavy clouds that scudded across the sky. We all kept somehow close together, with Van Helsing slightly in front as he led the way. When we had come close to the tomb I looked well at Arthur, for I feared the proximity to a place laden with so sorrowful a memory would upset him, but he bore himself well. I took it that the very mystery of the proceeding was in some way a counteractant to his grief. The Professor unlocked the door, and seeing a natural hesitation amongst us for various reasons, solved the difficulty by entering first himself. The rest of us followed, and he closed the door. He then lit a dark lantern and pointed to a coffin. Arthur stepped forward hesitatingly. Van Helsing said to me, ‘You were with me here yesterday. Was the body of Miss Lucy in that coffin?’
当我们翻过矮墙进入教堂墓地时，还差十二点一刻。夜色漆黑，天空中厚厚的云层间偶尔有一丝月光。我们都以某种方式保持着紧密的联系，范海辛在前面带路。当我们走近坟墓时，我仔细地看着亚瑟，因为我担心靠近一个充满悲伤记忆的地方会让他心烦意乱，但他表现得很好。我认为诉讼程序的神秘性在某种程度上抵消了他的悲伤。教授打开门，看到我们出于各种原因自然而然地犹豫不决，他自己先进去解决了这个难题。我们其他人都跟了上去，他关上了门。然后他点燃了一盏黑灯笼，指着一口棺材。亚瑟犹豫地向前走去。范海辛对我说：‘昨天你和我在一起。棺材里是露西小姐的尸体吗？

‘It was.’
'它是。'

The Professor turned to the rest saying, ‘You hear, and yet there is no one who does not believe with me.’
教授转向其他人说：“你们都听到了，但没有人不相信我。”

He took his screwdriver and again took off the lid of the coffin. Arthur looked on, very pale but silent. When the lid was removed he stepped forward. He evidently did not know that there was a leaden coffin, or at any rate, had not thought of it. When he saw the rent in the lead, the blood rushed to his face for an instant, but as quickly fell away again, so that he remained of a ghastly whiteness. He was still silent. Van Helsing forced back the leaden flange, and we all looked in and recoiled.
他拿起螺丝刀，再次打开了棺材盖。亚瑟在一旁看着，脸色苍白但沉默。当盖子被打开时，他向前迈了​​一步。他显然不知道有一口铅制棺材，或者至少没有想到这一点。当他看到铅条上的裂痕时，血色一瞬间冲上他的脸，但很快又消退了，所以他的脸色仍是一片惨白。他依然沉默。范海辛将铅制法兰向后推开，我们都往里看，然后向后退了一步。

The coffin was empty!
棺材是空的！

For several minutes no one spoke a word. The silence was broken by Quincey Morris, ‘Professor, I answered for you. Your word is all I want. I wouldn’t ask such a thing ordinarily, I wouldn’t so dishonour you as to imply a doubt, but this is a mystery that goes beyond any honour or dishonour. Is this your doing?’
几分钟内没有人说话。昆西·莫里斯打破了沉默，“教授，我替你回答了。”你的话就是我想要的一切。通常我不会问这样的问题，我不会让你蒙羞以致暗示怀疑，但这是一个超越任何荣誉或耻辱的谜团。这是你做的吗？

‘I swear to you by all that I hold sacred that I have not removed or touched her. What happened was this. Two nights ago my friend Seward and I came here, with good purpose, believe me. I opened that coffin, which was then sealed up, and we found it as now, empty. We then waited, and saw something white come through the trees. The next day we came here in daytime and she lay there. Did she not, friend John?
“我以我认为神圣的一切向你发誓，我没有移走或碰过她。事情是这样的。两天前的晚上，我和我的朋友苏厄德带着良好的目的来到这里，相信我。我打开了那口密封的棺材，我们发现它和现在一样，是空的。然后我们等待，看到一些白色的东西穿过树林。第二天我们白天来到这里，她躺在那里。她不是吗，朋友约翰？

‘Yes.’
'是的。'

‘That night we were just in time. One more so small child was missing, and we find it, thank God, unharmed amongst the graves. Yesterday I came here before sundown, for at sundown the UnDead can move. I waited here all night till the sun rose, but I saw nothing. It was most probable that it was because I had laid over the clamps of those doors garlic, which the UnDead cannot bear, and other things which they shun. Last night there was no exodus, so tonight before the sundown I took away my garlic and other things. And so it is we find this coffin empty. But bear with me. So far there is much that is strange. Wait you with me outside, unseen and unheard, and things much stranger are yet to be. So,’ here he shut the dark slide of his lantern, ‘now to the outside.’ He opened the door, and we filed out, he coming last and locking the door behind him.
“那天晚上我们来得正是时候。又一个如此小的孩子失踪了，感谢上帝，我们在坟墓中找到了他，安然无恙。昨天我在日落之前来到这里，因为日落时不死族可以活动。我在这里等了整整一夜，直到太阳升起，但我什么也没看到。很可能是因为我在门夹上放了不死族无法忍受的大蒜和其他他们回避的东西。昨晚没有人出走，所以今晚日落之前我拿走了大蒜和其他东西。于是我们发现这口棺材是空的。但请耐心听我说。到目前为止，有很多奇怪的事情。和我一起在外面等你，看不见，听不见，还有更奇怪的事情发生。所以，”他关上了灯笼的黑暗幻灯片，“现在到外面了。”他打开门，我们鱼贯而出，他最后一个进来，并在身后锁上了门。

Oh! But it seemed fresh and pure in the night air after the terror of that vault. How sweet it was to see the clouds race by, and the passing gleams of the moonlight between the scudding clouds crossing and passing, like the gladness and sorrow of a man’s life. How sweet it was to breathe the fresh air, that had no taint of death and decay. How humanizing to see the red lighting of the sky beyond the hill, and to hear far away the muffled roar that marks the life of a great city. Each in his own way was solemn and overcome. Arthur was silent, and was, I could see, striving to grasp the purpose and the inner meaning of the mystery. I was myself tolerably patient, and half inclined again to throw aside doubt and to accept Van Helsing’s conclusions. Quincey Morris was phlegmatic in the way of a man who accepts all things, and accepts them in the spirit of cool bravery, with hazard of all he has at stake. Not being able to smoke, he cut himself a good-sized plug of tobacco and began to chew. As to Van Helsing, he was employed in a definite way. First he took from his bag a mass of what looked like thin, wafer-like biscuit, which was carefully rolled up in a white napkin. Next he took out a double handful of some whitish stuff, like dough or putty. He crumbled the wafer up fine and worked it into the mass between his hands. This he then took, and rolling it into thin strips, began to lay them into the crevices between the door and its setting in the tomb. I was somewhat puzzled at this, and being close, asked him what it was that he was doing. Arthur and Quincey drew near also, as they too were curious.
哦！但在经历了那座金库的恐怖之后，夜晚的空气显得清新而纯净。看云彩飞驰而过，月光在云彩间掠过，是多么甜蜜，就像人一生的喜怒哀乐。呼吸没有死亡和腐烂污染的新鲜空气是多么甜蜜。看到山那边天空的红色光芒，听到远处低沉的轰鸣声，这是一座伟大城市的生活，这是多么人性化啊。每个人都以自己的方式庄严而克制。亚瑟沉默了，我看得出来，他正在努力理解这个谜团的目的和内在含义。我自己还是相当有耐心的，并且有点倾向于抛开怀疑并接受范海辛的结论。昆西·莫里斯是一个冷漠的人，他接受一切，并以冷静勇敢的精神接受它们，冒着一切危险。由于无法吸烟，他给自己切了一大块烟草并开始咀嚼。至于范海辛，他的工作方式是明确的。首先，他从包里拿出一块看起来像威化饼一样薄的饼干，小心翼翼地用白色餐巾纸卷起来。接下来，他拿出两把白色的东西，比如面团或油灰。他把威化饼弄碎，然后把它揉成两手之间的团块。然后他拿起它，把它卷成细条，开始将它们放入门和墓穴之间的缝隙中。我对此感到有些困惑，就靠近地问他在做什么。亚瑟和昆西也凑了过来，因为他们也很好奇。

He answered, ‘I am closing the tomb so that the UnDead may not enter.’
他回答说：“我正在关闭坟墓，这样亡灵就无法进入。”

‘And is that stuff you have there going to do it?’
“那你那里的东西能做到这一点吗？”

‘It is.’
'这是。'

‘What is that which you are using?’ This time the question was by Arthur. Van Helsing reverently lifted his hat as he answered.
“你用的是什么？”这一次是亚瑟问的。范海辛回答时恭敬地举起帽子。

‘The Host. I brought it from Amsterdam. I have an Indulgence.’
'主人。我从阿姆斯特丹带来的。我有一份放纵。

It was an answer that appalled the most sceptical of us, and we felt individually that in the presence of such earnest purpose as the Professor’s, a purpose which could thus use the to him most sacred of things, it was impossible to distrust. In respectful silence we took the places assigned to us close round the tomb, but hidden from the sight of any one approaching. I pitied the others, especially Arthur. I had myself been apprenticed by my former visits to this watching horror, and yet I, who had up to an hour ago repudiated the proofs, felt my heart sink within me. Never did tombs look so ghastly white. Never did cypress, or yew, or juniper so seem the embodiment of funeral gloom. Never did tree or grass wave or rustle so ominously. Never did bough creak so mysteriously, and never did the far-away howling of dogs send such a woeful presage through the night.
这个答案让我们中最持怀疑态度的人感到震惊，我们个人都感到，在教授这样真诚的目的面前，一个可以因此使用对他来说最神圣的事物的目的，不可能不信任。我们在恭敬的沉默中占据了坟墓附近分配给我们的位置，但任何接近的人都看不到。我同情其他人，尤其是亚瑟。我自己曾因之前参观过这令人震惊的恐怖而受过教训，但我一个小时前还否认这些证据，却感到我的心沉了下去。坟墓从来没有看起来如此惨白过。柏树、红豆杉或杜松树从来没有像现在这样成为葬礼阴郁的化身。树或草从未如此不祥地波动或沙沙作响。树枝从未如此神秘地嘎吱作响，远处的狗嚎声也从未在黑夜中发出如此悲惨的预兆。

There was a long spell of silence, big, aching, void, and then from the Professor a keen ‘S-s-s-s!’ He pointed, and far down the avenue of yews we saw a white figure advance, a dim white figure, which held something dark at its breast. The figure stopped, and at the moment a ray of moonlight fell upon the masses of driving clouds, and showed in startling prominence a dark-haired woman, dressed in the cerements of the grave. We could not see the face, for it was bent down over what we saw to be a fair-haired child. There was a pause and a sharp little cry, such as a child gives in sleep, or a dog as it lies before the fire and dreams. We were starting forward, but the Professor’s warning hand, seen by us as he stood behind a yew tree, kept us back. And then as we looked the white figure moved forwards again. It was now near enough for us to see clearly, and the moonlight still held. My own heart grew cold as ice, and I could hear the gasp of Arthur, as we recognized the features of Lucy Westenra. Lucy Westenra, but yet how changed. The sweetness was turned to adamantine, heartless cruelty, and the purity to voluptuous wantonness.
一阵长时间的沉默，巨大的、痛苦的、空虚的，然后教授发出一声尖锐的“S-S-S-S！”他指着，在紫杉林荫道的远处，我们看到一个白色的人影走来，一个暗淡的白色人影，手里拿着什么东西。胸部呈黑色。那人影停了下来，就在这时，一缕月光落在了那片飞腾的云朵上，显露出了一位黑发女人，她穿着坟墓的陶器。我们看不到那张脸，因为我们看到它弯下腰，那是一个金发的孩子。一阵停顿和一声尖锐的小叫声，就像孩子在睡梦中发出的叫声，或者是狗躺在火炉前做梦的叫声。我们正要向前走，但是当我们看到教授站在一棵紫杉树后面时，他警告性的手势阻止了我们。然后当我们看去时，那个白色的人影又向前移动了。现在已经足够近了，我们可以看清楚了，而且月光仍然存在。我的心变得冷如冰块，当我们认出露西·韦斯特拉的面容时，我能听到亚瑟的喘息声。露西·韦斯特拉，但又发生了怎样的变化。甜蜜变成了刚毅、无情的残忍，纯洁变成了淫荡。

Van Helsing stepped out, and obedient to his gesture, we all advanced too. The four of us ranged in a line before the door of the tomb. Van Helsing raised his lantern and drew the slide. By the concentrated light that fell on Lucy’s face we could see that the lips were crimson with fresh blood, and that the stream had trickled over her chin and stained the purity of her lawn death robe.
范海辛走了出来，按照他的手势，我们也都上前了。我们四个人在墓门前排成一排。范海辛举起灯笼，画了幻灯片。通过落在露西脸上的集中光线，我们可以看到嘴唇被鲜血染成深红色，小溪流过她的下巴，沾染了她纯洁的草坪死亡长袍。

We shuddered with horror. I could see by the tremulous light that even Van Helsing’s iron nerve had failed. Arthur was next to me, and if I had not seized his arm and held him up, he would have fallen.
我们惊恐得浑身发抖。从颤抖的光芒中我可以看出，就连范海辛的钢铁神经也已经失效了。亚瑟就在我旁边，如果我没有抓住他的手臂把他扶起来，他就会摔倒。

When Lucy, I call the thing that was before us Lucy because it bore her shape, saw us she drew back with an angry snarl, such as a cat gives when taken unawares, then her eyes ranged over us. Lucy’s eyes in form and colour, but Lucy’s eyes unclean and full of hell fire, instead of the pure, gentle orbs we knew. At that moment the remnant of my love passed into hate and loathing. Had she then to be killed, I could have done it with savage delight. As she looked, her eyes blazed with unholy light, and the face became wreathed with a voluptuous smile. Oh, God, how it made me shudder to see it! With a careless motion, she flung to the ground, callous as a devil, the child that up to now she had clutched strenuously to her breast, growling over it as a dog growls over a bone. The child gave a sharp cry, and lay there moaning. There was a cold-bloodedness in the act which wrung a groan from Arthur. When she advanced to him with outstretched arms and a wanton smile he fell back and hid his face in his hands.
当露西（我称我们面前的那个东西为露西，因为它具有她的形状）看到我们时，她愤怒地咆哮着向后退去，就像猫在措手不及时发出的声音一样，然后她的眼睛扫视着我们。露西的眼睛有形状和颜色，但露西的眼睛不干净，充满地狱之火，而不是我们所知道的纯洁、温柔的眼珠。那一刻，我残余的爱变成了恨和厌恶。如果她被杀了，我会带着野蛮的喜悦去做的。看的时候，她的双眸闪烁着邪恶的光芒，脸上浮现出妖娆的笑容。哦，上帝，看到它让我多么不寒而栗！她一个漫不经心的动作，像魔鬼一样冷酷无情地摔到了地上，直到现在，她还用力地抱在胸前，对着它咆哮，就像狗对骨头咆哮一样。孩子发出一声尖锐的哭声，躺在那里呻吟着。这一行为充满了冷血，让亚瑟发出一声呻吟。当她向他伸出双臂并带着肆意的微笑时，他向后退了一步，用双手捂住了脸。

She still advanced, however, and with a languorous, voluptuous grace, said, ‘Come to me, Arthur. Leave these others and come to me. My arms are hungry for you. Come, and we can rest together. Come, my husband, come!’
然而她仍然走上前，带着一种慵懒而性感的优雅说道：“到我这里来吧，亚瑟。”离开其他人来找我吧。我的手臂渴望你。来吧，我们可以一起休息。来吧，我的丈夫，来吧！

There was something diabolically sweet in her tones, something of the tinkling of glass when struck, which rang through the brains even of us who heard the words addressed to another.
她的语气里有一种恶魔般的甜蜜，有点像玻璃被敲击时发出的叮当声，即使是我们这些听到对别人说的话的人也会在大脑中回响。

As for Arthur, he seemed under a spell, moving his hands from his face, he opened wide his arms. She was leaping for them, when Van Helsing sprang forward and held between them his little golden crucifix. She recoiled from it, and, with a suddenly distorted face, full of rage, dashed past him as if to enter the tomb.
至于亚瑟，他似乎中了魔咒，把手从脸上移开，张开双臂。当她向他们扑去时，范海辛跳上前，把他的金色小十字架夹在他们中间。她猛地一退，脸色突然扭曲，充满了愤怒，从他身边冲了过去，仿佛要进入坟墓。

When within a foot or two of the door, however, she stopped, as if arrested by some irresistible force. Then she turned, and her face was shown in the clear burst of moonlight and by the lamp, which had now no quiver from Van Helsing’s nerves. Never did I see such baffled malice on a face, and never, I trust, shall such ever be seen again by mortal eyes. The beautiful colour became livid, the eyes seemed to throw out sparks of hell fire, the brows were wrinkled as though the folds of flesh were the coils of Medusa’s snakes, and the lovely, blood-stained mouth grew to an open square, as in the passion masks of the Greeks and Japanese. If ever a face meant death, if looks could kill, we saw it at that moment.
然而，当距离门一两英尺时，她停了下来，仿佛被某种不可抗拒的力量拦住了。然后她转过身来，清晰的月光和灯光映照着她的脸，范海辛的神经现在不再颤抖了。我从来没有在脸上看到过如此令人困惑的恶意，而且我相信，凡人的眼睛也永远不会再看到这样的表情。美丽的颜色变得青紫，眼睛仿佛喷出地狱之火的火花，眉头皱起，仿佛肉褶是美杜莎的蛇盘，可爱的、沾满血迹的嘴巴张开成方形，就像希腊人和日本人的激情面具。如果一张脸意味着死亡，如果眼神可以杀人，那一刻我们就看到了它。

And so for full half a minute, which seemed an eternity, she remained between the lifted crucifix and the sacred closing of her means of entry.
就这样，她在举起的十字架和神圣关闭的入口之间停留了整整半分钟，这似乎是永恒。

Van Helsing broke the silence by asking Arthur, ‘Answer me, oh my friend! Am I to proceed in my work?’
范海辛打破了沉默，问亚瑟：“回答我，哦我的朋友！”我要继续我的工作吗？

‘Do as you will, friend. Do as you will. There can be no horror like this ever any more.’ And he groaned in spirit.
‘按你的意愿去做吧，朋友。随你所愿吧。不能再有这样的恐怖了。”他心里呻吟着。

Quincey and I simultaneously moved towards him, and took his arms. We could hear the click of the closing lantern as Van Helsing held it down. Coming close to the tomb, he began to remove from the chinks some of the sacred emblem which he had placed there. We all looked on with horrified amazement as we saw, when he stood back, the woman, with a corporeal body as real at that moment as our own, pass through the interstice where scarce a knife blade could have gone. We all felt a glad sense of relief when we saw the Professor calmly restoring the strings of putty to the edges of the door.
昆西和我同时走向他，抓住了他的手臂。当范海辛按住灯笼时，我们可以听到灯笼关闭的声音。接近坟墓时，他开始从缝隙中取出一些他放置在那里的神圣徽章。当他退后一步时，我们都惊恐万分地看着，那个女人，此时此刻的肉体和我们一样真实，穿过了刀刃几乎无法进入的缝隙。当我们看到教授平静地把腻子串恢复到门边时，我们都感到如释重负。

When this was done, he lifted the child and said, ‘Come now, my friends. We can do no more till tomorrow. There is a funeral at noon, so here we shall all come before long after that. The friends of the dead will all be gone by two, and when the sexton locks the gate we shall remain. Then there is more to do, but not like this of tonight. As for this little one, he is not much harmed, and by tomorrow night he shall be well. We shall leave him where the police will find him, as on the other night, and then to home.’
完成后，他抱起孩子说：“来吧，我的朋友们。”直到明天我们才能再做更多的事情。中午有一场葬礼，所以不久之后我们都会来这里。死者之友将全部消失，而当司事锁上大门时，我们将留下来。然后还有更多事情要做，但不是像今晚这样。至于这个小家伙，伤势并不大，到了明晚就会痊愈。我们将把他留在警察会找到他的地方，就像那天晚上一样，然后回家。

Coming close to Arthur, he said, ‘My friend Arthur, you have had a sore trial, but after, when you look back, you will see how it was necessary. You are now in the bitter waters, my child. By this time tomorrow you will, please God, have passed them, and have drunk of the sweet waters. So do not mourn over-much. Till then I shall not ask you to forgive me.’
他靠近亚瑟说：“我的朋友亚瑟，你经历了一次痛苦的考验，但之后，当你回头看时，你会发现这是多么必要。”你现在正处于苦水之中，我的孩子。上帝保佑，到明天这个时候，你就会通过它们，喝到甜水了。所以不要过度哀悼。在那之前我不会请求你原谅我。

Arthur and Quincey came home with me, and we tried to cheer each other on the way. We had left behind the child in safety, and were tired. So we all slept with more or less reality of sleep.
亚瑟和昆西和我一起回家，一路上我们互相鼓励。我们把孩子安全地留在了身后，而且很累。所以我们都或多或少地带着真实的睡眠入睡。

29 September, night.—A little before twelve o’clock we three, Arthur, Quincey Morris, and myself, called for the Professor. It was odd to notice that by common consent we had all put on black clothes. Of course, Arthur wore black, for he was in deep mourning, but the rest of us wore it by instinct. We got to the graveyard by half-past one, and strolled about, keeping out of official observation, so that when the gravediggers had completed their task and the sexton under the belief that every one had gone, had locked the gate, we had the place all to ourselves. Van Helsing, instead of his little black bag, had with him a long leather one, something like a cricketing bag. It was manifestly of fair weight.
9 月 29 日晚上——快到十二点时，我们三个人，阿瑟、昆西·莫里斯和我，去拜访教授。奇怪的是，我们一致同意都穿上了黑色衣服。当然，亚瑟穿着黑色，因为他正处于深深的哀悼之中，但我们其他人本能地穿着黑色。我们在一点半的时候到达了墓地，在周围闲逛，避开了官方的观察，这样当掘墓人完成了他们的任务，教堂司事相信所有人都已经走了，锁上了大门时，我们就可以看到墓地了。把一切都归给我们自己。范海辛随身带的不是他的小黑包，而是一个长长的皮包，有点像板球包。显然重量相当。

When we were alone and had heard the last of the footsteps die out up the road, we silently, and as if by ordered intention, followed the Professor to the tomb. He unlocked the door, and we entered, closing it behind us. Then he took from his bag the lantern, which he lit, and also two wax candles, which, when lighted, he stuck by melting their own ends, on other coffins, so that they might give light sufficient to work by. When he again lifted the lid off Lucy’s coffin we all looked, Arthur trembling like an aspen, and saw that the corpse lay there in all its death beauty. But there was no love in my own heart, nothing but loathing for the foul Thing which had taken Lucy’s shape without her soul. I could see even Arthur’s face grow hard as he looked. Presently he said to Van Helsing, ‘Is this really Lucy’s body, or only a demon in her shape?’
当我们独自一人，听到最后的脚步声消失在路上时，我们默默地，仿佛出于命令的意图，跟着教授来到了坟墓。他打开门，我们进去，然后关上门。然后，他从包里拿出灯笼，点燃了它，还有两根蜡蜡烛，点燃后，他把蜡烛的一端熔化，粘在其他棺材上，这样它们就可以提供足够的光来工作。当他再次掀开露西棺材的盖子时，我们都看了看，亚瑟像白杨一样颤抖着，看到尸体躺在那里，充满了死亡的美丽。但我心里却没有爱，只有对这个邪恶的东西的厌恶，它在没有灵魂的情况下形成了露西的形状。我什至可以看到亚瑟的脸色变得严肃起来。过了一会儿，他对范海辛说道：“这真的是露西的身体吗？还是只是一个恶魔的样子？”

‘It is her body, and yet not it. But wait a while, and you shall see her as she was, and is.’
‘这是她的身体，但又不是它。但等一会儿，你就会看到她过去和现在的样子。

She seemed like a nightmare of Lucy as she lay there, the pointed teeth, the blood stained, voluptuous mouth, which made one shudder to see, the whole carnal and unspirited appearance, seeming like a devilish mockery of Lucy’s sweet purity. Van Helsing, with his usual methodicalness, began taking the various contents from his bag and placing them ready for use. First he took out a soldering iron and some plumbing solder, and then small oil lamp, which gave out, when lit in a corner of the tomb, gas which burned at a fierce heat with a blue flame, then his operating knives, which he placed to hand, and last a round wooden stake, some two and a half or three inches thick and about three feet long. One end of it was hardened by charring in the fire, and was sharpened to a fine point. With this stake came a heavy hammer, such as in households is used in the coal cellar for breaking the lumps. To me, a doctor’s preparations for work of any kind are stimulating and bracing, but the effect of these things on both Arthur and Quincey was to cause them a sort of consternation. They both, however, kept their courage, and remained silent and quiet.
她躺在那里，就像是露西的一场噩梦，尖尖的牙齿，血迹斑斑，性感的嘴巴，让人看了不寒而栗，整个肉欲无精打彩的样子，像是对露西甜美纯洁的恶魔般的嘲讽。范海辛以他一贯的有条不紊的态度，开始从包里取出各种物品并放置好以备使用。他首先拿出了一把烙铁和一些管道焊料，然后拿出了小油灯，在坟墓的一角点燃时，会发出气体，在猛烈的高温下燃烧，发出蓝色的火焰，然后是他的手术刀，放在手边，最后一个圆形木桩，有的有两英寸半或三英寸厚，大约三英尺长。它的一端在火中被烧焦而变硬，并被磨成很细的尖端。有了这根木桩，就出现了一把重锤，例如在家庭煤窖中用来敲碎煤块的锤子。对我来说，医生为任何类型的工作所做的准备都是令人兴奋和振奋的，但这些事情对亚瑟和昆西的影响却让他们感到某种惊愕。但两人都保持着勇气，保持着沉默。

When all was ready, Van Helsing said, ‘Before we do anything, let me tell you this. It is out of the lore and experience of the ancients and of all those who have studied the powers of the UnDead. When they become such, there comes with the change the curse of immortality. They cannot die, but must go on age after age adding new victims and multiplying the evils of the world. For all that die from the preying of the Undead become themselves Undead, and prey on their kind. And so the circle goes on ever widening, like as the ripples from a stone thrown in the water. Friend Arthur, if you had met that kiss which you know of before poor Lucy die, or again, last night when you open your arms to her, you would in time, when you had died, have become nosferatu, as they call it in Eastern Europe, and would for all time make more of those Un-Deads that so have filled us with horror. The career of this so unhappy dear lady is but just begun. Those children whose blood she sucked are not as yet so much the worse, but if she lives on, UnDead, more and more they lose their blood and by her power over them they come to her, and so she draw their blood with that so wicked mouth. But if she die in truth, then all cease. The tiny wounds of the throats disappear, and they go back to their play unknowing ever of what has been. But of the most blessed of all, when this now UnDead be made to rest as true dead, then the soul of the poor lady whom we love shall again be free. Instead of working wickedness by night and growing more debased in the assimilating of it by day, she shall take her place with the other Angels. So that, my friend, it will be a blessed hand for her that shall strike the blow that sets her free. To this I am willing, but is there none amongst us who has a better right? Will it be no joy to think of hereafter in the silence of the night when sleep is not, ‘It was my hand that sent her to the stars. It was the hand of him that loved her best, the hand that of all she would herself have chosen, had it been to her to choose?’ Tell me if there be such a one amongst us?’
当一切准备就绪后，范海辛说道：“在我们采取任何行动之前，让我告诉你这一点。”它源自古人和所有研究不死族力量的人的知识和经验。当他们变成这样时，随之而来的就是不朽的诅咒。他们不会死，但必须一代又一代地继续下去，增加新的受害者，并增加世界的邪恶。因为所有因不死族的捕食而死亡的人都会成为不死族，并捕食他们的同类。就这样，圆圈不断扩大，就像一块石头扔进水里激起的涟漪一样。朋友亚瑟，如果你在可怜的露西死之前遇到了那个你知道的吻，或者昨晚当你向她张开双臂时，你会及时在你死后成为诺斯费拉图，正如他们所说的那样东欧，将永远制造更多的不死生物，让我们充满恐惧。这位不幸的亲爱女士的职业生涯才刚刚开始。那些被她吸过血的孩子们还没有那么糟糕，但如果她活下去，不死族，他们会越来越多地失去血液，通过她对他们的力量，他们会来到她身边，所以她用这样的方式吸取他们的血。邪恶的嘴。但如果她真的死了，那么一切都会停止。喉咙上的小伤口消失了，他们继续玩耍，却不知道发生了什么。但最受祝福的是，当这个不死者像真正的死者一样安息时，我们所爱的可怜女士的灵魂将再次获得自由。她不会在夜间行恶，并在白天同化邪恶，从而变得更加堕落，她将与其他天使一起取代她的位置。因此，我的朋友，这对她来说将是一只受祝福的手，它将给予她自由的一击。对此我愿意，但是我们当中没有人有更好的权利吗？ 今后在寂静的夜里，当睡眠不复存在时，想到“是我的手把她送到了星星”，这难道不是一件快乐的事吗？这是他最爱她的手，如果由她来选择的话，她会选择她自己的手吗？告诉我我们中间是否有这样的一只手？’

We all looked at Arthur. He saw too, what we all did, the infinite kindness which suggested that his should be the hand which would restore Lucy to us as a holy, and not an unholy, memory. He stepped forward and said bravely, though his hand trembled, and his face was as pale as snow, ‘My true friend, from the bottom of my broken heart I thank you. Tell me what I am to do, and I shall not falter!’
我们都看着亚瑟。他也看到了我们所做的一切，无限的仁慈，这表明他应该伸出援手，将露西恢复为我们神圣的记忆，而不是邪恶的记忆。他上前，手在颤抖，脸色苍白如雪，勇敢地说：“我真正的朋友，我从心底里感谢你。”告诉我该怎么做，我不会动摇！

Van Helsing laid a hand on his shoulder, and said, ‘Brave lad! A moment’s courage, and it is done. This stake must be driven through her. It well be a fearful ordeal, be not deceived in that, but it will be only a short time, and you will then rejoice more than your pain was great. From this grim tomb you will emerge as though you tread on air. But you must not falter when once you have begun. Only think that we, your true friends, are round you, and that we pray for you all the time.’
范海辛把手放在他的肩膀上，说道：“勇敢的小伙子！”只要有片刻的勇气，事情就完成了。这根木桩必须贯穿她。这将是一次可怕的考验，不要被欺骗，但这只是很短的时间，然后你会比你的痛苦更快乐。从这个阴森的坟墓中，你会像踏在空气中一样出现。但一旦开始，就决不能犹豫。只要想想我们，你真正的朋友，就在你身边，我们一直为你祈祷。

‘Go on,’ said Arthur hoarsely. ‘Tell me what I am to do.’
“继续吧，”亚瑟沙哑地说。 “告诉我该怎么做。”

‘Take this stake in your left hand, ready to place to the point over the heart, and the hammer in your right. Then when we begin our prayer for the dead, I shall read him, I have here the book, and the others shall follow, strike in God’s name, that so all may be well with the dead that we love and that the UnDead pass away.’
“左手拿着这根木桩，准备好放在心脏上方，右手拿着锤子。然后，当我们开始为死者祈祷时，我将读他的书，我这里有这本书，其他人将跟随，以上帝的名义罢工，以便我们所爱的死者一切顺利，不死者消失.'

Arthur took the stake and the hammer, and when once his mind was set on action his hands never trembled nor even quivered. Van Helsing opened his missal and began to read, and Quincey and I followed as well as we could.
亚瑟接过木桩和锤子，当他下定决心采取行动时，他的双手就不再颤抖，甚至不再颤抖。范海辛打开他的弥撒书并开始阅读，昆西和我也尽力跟着读。

Arthur placed the point over the heart, and as I looked I could see its dint in the white flesh. Then he struck with all his might.
亚瑟将尖端放在心脏上，当我观察时，我可以在白色的肉上看到它的痕迹。然后他用尽全身的力气出击。

The thing in the coffin writhed, and a hideous, blood-curdling screech came from the opened red lips. The body shook and quivered and twisted in wild contortions. The sharp white teeth champed together till the lips were cut, and the mouth was smeared with a crimson foam. But Arthur never faltered. He looked like a figure of Thor as his untrembling arm rose and fell, driving deeper and deeper the mercy-bearing stake, whilst the blood from the pierced heart welled and spurted up around it. His face was set, and high duty seemed to shine through it. The sight of it gave us courage so that our voices seemed to ring through the little vault.
棺材里的东西扭动起来，张开的红唇发出令人毛骨悚然的尖叫声。身体剧烈地摇晃、颤抖、扭曲。锋利的白牙咬在一起，直到嘴唇被割破，嘴里沾满了猩红的泡沫。但亚瑟从未动摇过。他看起来就像托尔的形象，他那颤抖的手臂上下起伏，将慈悲的木桩越陷越深，而鲜血从被刺穿的心脏中涌出并喷射到木桩周围。他的脸色严肃，脸上闪烁着崇高的责任感。看到它给了我们勇气，我们的声音似乎在小拱顶里回响。

And then the writhing and quivering of the body became less, and the teeth seemed to champ, and the face to quiver. Finally it lay still. The terrible task was over.
然后身体的扭动和颤抖变得越来越少，牙齿似乎在咬紧，脸也在颤抖。最后它静静地躺着。可怕的任务结束了。

The hammer fell from Arthur’s hand. He reeled and would have fallen had we not caught him. The great drops of sweat sprang from his forehead, and his breath came in broken gasps. It had indeed been an awful strain on him, and had he not been forced to his task by more than human considerations he could never have gone through with it. For a few minutes we were so taken up with him that we did not look towards the coffin. When we did, however, a murmur of startled surprise ran from one to the other of us. We gazed so eagerly that Arthur rose, for he had been seated on the ground, and came and looked too, and then a glad strange light broke over his face and dispelled altogether the gloom of horror that lay upon it.
锤子从亚瑟手中掉落。如果我们没有抓住他，他就会跌倒。额头上冒出大滴汗珠，呼吸断断续续。这确实对他来说是一种可怕的压力，如果不是出于人性的考虑而迫使他完成这项任务，他永远不可能完成这项任务。有几分钟我们全神贯注于他，没有看向棺材。然而，当我们这样做时，我们中的一个人传出一阵惊讶的低语声。我们如此热切地注视着，阿瑟站了起来，因为他坐在地上，也过来看了看，然后一道令人高兴的奇怪的光芒出现在他的脸上，完全驱散了脸上恐怖的阴郁。

There, in the coffin lay no longer the foul Thing that we had so dreaded and grown to hate that the work of her destruction was yielded as a privilege to the one best entitled to it, but Lucy as we had seen her in life, with her face of unequalled sweetness and purity. True that there were there, as we had seen them in life, the traces of care and pain and waste. But these were all dear to us, for they marked her truth to what we knew. One and all we felt that the holy calm that lay like sunshine over the wasted face and form was only an earthly token and symbol of the calm that was to reign for ever.
在那里，棺材里不再躺着那个肮脏的东西，我们曾经如此害怕和憎恨，以致于她的毁灭工作被作为一种特权交给了最有资格获得它的人，而是露西，正如我们在生活中所看到的那样，她的脸庞无与伦比的甜美和纯洁。确实，正如我们在生活中所看到的那样，那里有关怀、痛苦和浪费的痕迹。但这些对我们来说都是珍贵的，因为它们标志着我们所知道的她的真相。我们总觉得，那神圣的平静，就像阳光照在那张憔悴的脸庞和身体上，只是一种尘世的象征，象征着将永远统治的平静。

Van Helsing came and laid his hand on Arthur’s shoulder, and said to him, ‘And now, Arthur my friend, dear lad, am I not forgiven?’
范海辛走过来，把手放在亚瑟的肩膀上，对他说：“现在，亚瑟，我的朋友，亲爱的小伙子，我还没有被原谅吗？”

The reaction of the terrible strain came as he took the old man’s hand in his, and raising it to his lips, pressed it, and said, ‘Forgiven! God bless you that you have given my dear one her soul again, and me peace.’ He put his hands on the Professor’s shoulder, and laying his head on his breast, cried for a while silently, whilst we stood unmoving.
当他握住老人的手，把它举到唇边，压紧它，说：“原谅！”时，可怕的压力产生了反应。上帝保佑你，你让我亲爱的人再次获得了灵魂，并给了我平安。”他把手放在教授的肩膀上，把头靠在他的胸前，默默地哭了一会儿，而我们则一动不动地站着。

When he raised his head Van Helsing said to him, ‘And now, my child, you may kiss her. Kiss her dead lips if you will, as she would have you to, if for her to choose. For she is not a grinning devil now, not any more a foul Thing for all eternity. No longer she is the devil’s UnDead. She is God’s true dead, whose soul is with Him!’
当他抬起头时，范海辛对他说：“现在，我的孩子，你可以吻她了。”如果你愿意的话，可以吻她死气沉沉的嘴唇，就像她希望你那样，如果让她选择的话。因为她现在不再是一个咧着嘴笑的魔鬼，也永远不再是一个邪恶的东西。她不再是恶魔的不死者了。她是上帝真正的死者，她的灵魂与上帝同在！

Arthur bent and kissed her, and then we sent him and Quincey out of the tomb. The Professor and I sawed the top off the stake, leaving the point of it in the body. Then we cut off the head and filled the mouth with garlic. We soldered up the leaden coffin, screwed on the coffin lid, and gathering up our belongings, came away. When the Professor locked the door he gave the key to Arthur.
亚瑟弯下腰吻了她，然后我们把他和昆西送出了坟墓。教授和我把木桩的顶部锯掉，把它的尖端留在木桩上。然后我们切掉头，并用大蒜填满嘴。我们把铅制棺材焊好，拧上棺材盖，收拾好东西就出发了。当教授锁上门时，他把钥匙给了亚瑟。

Outside the air was sweet, the sun shone, and the birds sang, and it seemed as if all nature were tuned to a different pitch. There was gladness and mirth and peace everywhere, for we were at rest ourselves on one account, and we were glad, though it was with a tempered joy.
外面空气清新，阳光明媚，鸟儿歌唱，似乎所有的大自然都调到了不同的音调。到处都是欢乐、欢乐与和平，因为我们自己得到了休息，我们很高兴，尽管这是一种压抑的喜悦。

Before we moved away Van Helsing said, ‘Now, my friends, one step of our work is done, one the most harrowing to ourselves. But there remains a greater task, to find out the author of all this or sorrow and to stamp him out. I have clues which we can follow, but it is a long task, and a difficult one, and there is danger in it, and pain. Shall you not all help me? We have learned to believe, all of us, is it not so? And since so, do we not see our duty? Yes! And do we not promise to go on to the bitter end?’
在我们离开之前，范海辛说道：“现在，我的朋友们，我们的工作已经完成了一步，这对我们自己来说是最痛苦的一步。”但还有一项更艰巨的任务，那就是找出这一切或悲伤的始作俑者，并将其消灭。我有我们可以追踪的线索，但这是一项长期的任务，也是一项艰巨的任务，其中充满危险和痛苦。你们大家不帮帮我吗？我们所有人都学会了相信，不是吗？既然如此，难道我们还没有看到自己的责任吗？是的！难道我们不保证会一直走到痛苦的结局吗？

Each in turn, we took his hand, and the promise was made. Then said the Professor as we moved off, ‘Two nights hence you shall meet with me and dine together at seven of the clock with friend John. I shall entreat two others, two that you know not as yet, and I shall be ready to all our work show and our plans unfold. Friend John, you come with me home, for I have much to consult you about, and you can help me. Tonight I leave for Amsterdam, but shall return tomorrow night. And then begins our great quest. But first I shall have much to say, so that you may know what to do and to dread. Then our promise shall be made to each other anew. For there is a terrible task before us, and once our feet are on the ploughshare we must not draw back.’
我们依次握住他的手，做出了承诺。然后，当我们离开时，教授说道：“两天后，你将与我会面，并在七点钟与朋友约翰一起共进晚餐。”我将恳求另外两个人，两个你们还不知道的人，我将准备好我们所有的工作展示和我们的计划的展开。朋友约翰，你跟我回家吧，因为我有很多事情要咨询你，你可以帮助我。今晚我动身前往阿姆斯特丹，但明天晚上就会返回。然后开始我们伟大的探索。但首先我要说很多话，以便你们知道该做什么、该害怕什么。然后我们将重新向彼此许下承诺。因为我们面临着一项艰巨的任务，一旦我们的脚踩上犁头，我们就决不能后退。

Chapter 17
第17章

DR. SEWARD’S DIARY-cont.
博士。苏厄德的日记-续

When we arrived at the Berkely Hotel, Van Helsing found a telegram waiting for him.
当我们到达伯克利酒店时，范海辛发现一封电报正在等着他。

‘Am coming up by train. Jonathan at Whitby. Important news. Mina Harker.’
‘我是坐火车来的。乔纳森在惠特比。重要消息。米娜·哈克。”

The Professor was delighted. ‘Ah, that wonderful Madam Mina,’ he said, ‘pearl among women! She arrive, but I cannot stay. She must go to your house, friend John. You must meet her at the station. Telegraph her en route so that she may be prepared.’
教授很高兴。 “啊，那位了不起的米娜女士，”他说，“女人中的明珠！”她来了，但我不能留下来。她必须去你家，朋友约翰。你必须在车站接她。在途中给她发电报，以便她做好准备。

When the wire was dispatched he had a cup of tea. Over it he told me of a diary kept by Jonathan Harker when abroad, and gave me a typewritten copy of it, as also of Mrs. Harker’s diary at Whitby. ‘Take these,’ he said, ‘and study them well. When I have returned you will be master of all the facts, and we can then better enter on our inquisition. Keep them safe, for there is in them much of treasure. You will need all your faith, even you who have had such an experience as that of today. What is here told,’ he laid his hand heavily and gravely on the packet of papers as he spoke, ‘may be the beginning of the end to you and me and many another, or it may sound the knell of the UnDead who walk the earth. Read all, I pray you, with the open mind, and if you can add in any way to the story here told do so, for it is all important. You have kept a diary of all these so strange things, is it not so? Yes! Then we shall go through all these together when we meet.’ He then made ready for his departure and shortly drove off to Liverpool Street. I took my way to Paddington, where I arrived about fifteen minutes before the train came in.
电报发出后，他喝了一杯茶。在信中，他告诉我乔纳森·哈克在国外时写的一本日记，并给了我一份打字稿，还有哈克夫人在惠特比的日记。 “拿着这些，”他说，“好好研究一下。”当我回来后，你就会了解所有的事实，然后我们就可以更好地进行我们的调查。确保它们的安全，因为它们里面有很多宝藏。你需要你所有的信心，即使你已经有过今天这样的经历。这里所讲述的，”他边说边将手重重而严肃地放在那包文件上，“可能是你、我和其他许多人终结的开始，也可能敲响行走在宇宙中的亡灵的丧钟。地球。我请求您以开放的心态阅读所有内容，如果您可以以任何方式添加到此处讲述的故事中，请这样做，因为这都很重要。你把所有这些奇怪的事情都记在日记里，不是吗？是的！然后我们见面时会一起经历这些。”然后他做好了离开的准备，很快就开车去了利物浦街。我前往帕丁顿，在火车进站前大约十五分钟到达。

The crowd melted away, after the bustling fashion common to arrival platforms, and I was beginning to feel uneasy, lest I might miss my guest, when a sweet-faced, dainty looking girl stepped up to me, and after a quick glance said, ‘Dr. Seward, is it not?’
人群渐渐散去，经过了到达站台常见的熙熙攘攘的时尚，我开始感到不安，生怕错过了我的客人，这时一个面容甜美、长相精致的女孩走到我面前，快速扫了一眼后说道： '博士。苏厄德，不是吗？

‘And you are Mrs. Harker!’ I answered at once, whereupon she held out her hand.
“你是哈克夫人！”我立刻回答，于是她伸出了手。

‘I knew you from the description of poor dear Lucy, but …’ She stopped suddenly, and a quick blush overspread her face.
“我从可怜的亲爱的露西的描述中认识了你，但是……”她突然停了下来，脸上迅速泛起红晕。

The blush that rose to my own cheeks somehow set us both at ease, for it was a tacit answer to her own. I got her luggage, which included a typewriter, and we took the Underground to Fenchurch Street, after I had sent a wire to my housekeeper to have a sitting room and a bedroom prepared at once for Mrs. Harker.
我脸颊上泛起红晕，不知何故让我们俩都放松下来，因为这是对她自己的默认回答。我拿到了她的行李，其中包括一台打字机，在我给我的管家发了一封电报，要求立即为哈克夫人准备一间客厅和一间卧室后，我们乘地铁到了芬乔奇街。

In due time we arrived. She knew, of course, that the place was a lunatic asylum, but I could see that she was unable to repress a shudder when we entered.
我们按时到达了。她当然知道这个地方是疯人院，但当我们进去时，我看得出来她无法抑制地颤抖。

She told me that, if she might, she would come presently to my study, as she had much to say. So here I am finishing my entry in my phonograph diary whilst I await her. As yet I have not had the chance of looking at the papers which Van Helsing left with me, though they lie open before me. I must get her interested in something, so that I may have an opportunity of reading them. She does not know how precious time is, or what a task we have in hand. I must be careful not to frighten her. Here she is!
她告诉我，如果可以的话，她很快就会来我的书房，因为她有很多话要说。所以，在等待她的同时，我正在完成留声机日记中的条目。到目前为止，我还没有机会看到范海辛留给我的文件，尽管它们就摊在我面前。我必须让她对某件事感兴趣，这样我才有机会阅读它们。她不知道时间是多么宝贵，也不知道我们手头有什么任务。我必须小心，不要吓到她。她在这！

MINA HARKER’S JOURNAL
米娜·哈克的日记

29 September.—After I had tidied myself, I went down to Dr. Seward’s study. At the door I paused a moment, for I thought I heard him talking with some one. As, however, he had pressed me to be quick, I knocked at the door, and on his calling out, ‘Come in,’ I entered.
9 月 29 日——整理好自己之后，我来到苏厄德博士的书房。在门口我停了一会儿，因为我觉得我听到他在和某人说话。然而，由于他催促我快点，我敲了敲门，当他喊“进来”时，我就进去了。

To my intense surprise, there was no one with him. He was quite alone, and on the table opposite him was what I knew at once from the description to be a phonograph. I had never seen one, and was much interested.
令我大吃一惊的是，他身边没有人。他很孤独，从描述中我立刻就知道他对面的桌子上放着一台留声机。我从未见过，而且很感兴趣。

‘I hope I did not keep you waiting,’ I said, ‘but I stayed at the door as I heard you talking, and thought there was someone with you.’
“我希望没有让你久等，”我说，“但我站在门口听到你说话，以为有人和你在一起。”

‘Oh,’ he replied with a smile, ‘I was only entering my diary.’
“哦，”他微笑着回答，“我只是在写日记。”

‘Your diary?’ I asked him in surprise.
“你的日记？”我惊讶地问他。

‘Yes,’ he answered. ‘I keep it in this.’ As he spoke he laid his hand on the phonograph. I felt quite excited over it, and blurted out, ‘Why, this beats even shorthand! May I hear it say something?’
“是的，”他回答道。 “我把它放在这个里了。”说话时，他把手放在留声机上。我听了很兴奋，脱口而出：‘哎呀，这连速记都胜过啊！我可以听听它说些什么吗？

‘Certainly,’ he replied with alacrity, and stood up to put it in train for speaking. Then he paused, and a troubled look overspread his face.
“当然，”他兴致勃勃地回答，然后站起来准备说话。然后他停了下来，脸上露出了不安的表情。

‘The fact is,’ he began awkwardly, ‘I only keep my diary in it, and as it is entirely, almost entirely, about my cases it may be awkward, that is, I mean …’ He stopped, and I tried to help him out of his embarrassment.
“事实是，”他尴尬地开始说，“我只在里面放我的日记，而且因为它完全、几乎完全是关于我的案件，所以可能会很尴尬，也就是说，我的意思是……”他停了下来，我试图帮助他摆脱尴尬。

‘You helped to attend dear Lucy at the end. Let me hear how she died, for all that I know of her, I shall be very grateful. She was very, very dear to me.’
“你最后帮助照顾了亲爱的露西。让我听听她是怎么死的，因为我对她的了解，我将非常感激。她对我来说非常非常亲爱。

To my surprise, he answered, with a horrorstruck look in his face, ‘Tell you of her death? Not for the wide world!’
令我惊讶的是，他一脸惊恐地回答道：“告诉你她的死讯吗？”不适合广阔的世界！

‘Why not?’ I asked, for some grave, terrible feeling was coming over me.
“为什么不呢？”我问道，因为某种沉重、可怕的感觉袭上心头。

Again he paused, and I could see that he was trying to invent an excuse. At length, he stammered out, ‘You see, I do not know how to pick out any particular part of the diary.’
他再次停了下来，我看得出来他在试图编造一个借口。最后，他结结巴巴地说：“你看，我不知道如何挑选出日记中的任何特定部分。”

Even while he was speaking an idea dawned upon him, and he said with unconscious simplicity, in a different voice, and with the naivete of a child, ‘that’s quite true, upon my honour. Honest Indian!’
就在他说话的时候，他突然想到了一个想法，他用一种不同的声音、无意识的简单性和孩子般的天真说道：“我以我的名誉担保，确实如此。”诚实的印度人！’

I could not but smile, at which he grimaced. ‘I gave myself away that time!’ he said. ‘But do you know that, although I have kept the diary for months past, it never once struck me how I was going to find any particular part of it in case I wanted to look it up?’
我忍不住笑了，他也笑了。 “那次我暴露了自己！”他说。 “但是你知道吗，虽然我在过去几个月里一直保留着这本日记，但我从来没有想过如何找到其中的任何特定部分，以防我想查找它？”

By this time my mind was made up that the diary of a doctor who attended Lucy might have something to add to the sum of our knowledge of that terrible Being, and I said boldly, ‘Then, Dr. Seward, you had better let me copy it out for you on my typewriter.’
这时我下定决心，一位给露西看病的医生的日记可能会增加我们对这个可怕存在的认识，我大胆地说，“那么，苏厄德医生，你最好让我用我的打字机给你抄下来。

He grew to a positively deathly pallor as he said, ‘No! No! No! For all the world. I wouldn’t let you know that terrible story.!’
当他说：‘不！不！不！为了全世界。我不会让你知道那个可怕的故事。”

Then it was terrible. My intuition was right! For a moment, I thought, and as my eyes ranged the room, unconsciously looking for something or some opportunity to aid me, they lit on a great batch of typewriting on the table. His eyes caught the look in mine, and without his thinking, followed their direction. As they saw the parcel he realized my meaning.
然后就太可怕了。我的直觉是对的！我想了一会儿，当我的眼睛扫视房间，无意识地寻找某种东西或机会来帮助我时，我的目光看到了桌子上的一大堆打字稿。他的目光捕捉到了我的目光，不假思索地顺着他们的方向看去。当他们看到包裹时，他明白了我的意思。

‘You do not know me,’ I said. ‘When you have read those papers, my own diary and my husband’s also, which I have typed, you will know me better. I have not faltered in giving every thought of my own heart in this cause. But, of course, you do not know me, yet, and I must not expect you to trust me so far.’
“你不认识我，”我说。 “当你读过这些文件，包括我自己的日记和我丈夫的日记，都是我打字的，你会更了解我。我毫不犹豫地为这项事业倾注了自己的全部心血。但是，当然，你还不认识我，我不能指望你到目前为止会信任我。

He is certainly a man of noble nature. Poor dear Lucy was right about him. He stood up and opened a large drawer, in which were arranged in order a number of hollow cylinders of metal covered with dark wax, and said,
他无疑是一个品格高尚的人。可怜的露西对他的看法是对的。他站起来，打开一个大抽屉，里面依次排​​列着许多涂有黑蜡的空心金属圆柱体，说道：

‘You are quite right. I did not trust you because I did not know you. But I know you now, and let me say that I should have known you long ago. I know that Lucy told you of me. She told me of you too. May I make the only atonement in my power? Take the cylinders and hear them. The first half-dozen of them are personal to me, and they will not horrify you. Then you will know me better. Dinner will by then be ready. In the meantime I shall read over some of these documents, and shall be better able to understand certain things.’
'你太对了。我不信任你，因为我不认识你。但我现在认识你了，而且我应该说我早就应该认识你了。我知道露西告诉过你我的事。她也告诉过我你的事。我可以做我力所能及的唯一赎罪吗？拿起气缸并听听它们的声音。其中前六个对我来说是个人的，它们不会让你感到害怕。那么你就会更了解我。到时候晚饭就准备好了。与此同时，我将阅读其中一些文件，并且能够更好地理解某些事情。

He carried the phonograph himself up to my sitting room and adjusted it for me. Now I shall learn something pleasant, I am sure. For it will tell me the other side of a true love episode of which I know one side already.
他亲自把留声机搬到我的客厅并为我调整。我确信现在我会学到一些令人愉快的东西。因为它会告诉我真爱情节的另一面，而我已经知道其中的一面。

DR. SEWARD’S DIARY
博士。苏厄德的日记

29 September.—I was so absorbed in that wonderful diary of Jonathan Harker and that other of his wife that I let the time run on without thinking. Mrs. Harker was not down when the maid came to announce dinner, so I said, ‘She is possibly tired. Let dinner wait an hour,’ and I went on with my work. I had just finished Mrs. Harker’s diary, when she came in. She looked sweetly pretty, but very sad, and her eyes were flushed with crying. This somehow moved me much. Of late I have had cause for tears, God knows! But the relief of them was denied me, and now the sight of those sweet eyes, brightened by recent tears, went straight to my heart. So I said as gently as I could, ‘I greatly fear I have distressed you.’
9 月 29 日——我全神贯注于乔纳森·哈克和他妻子的那本精彩日记，以至于时间不假思索地流逝着。当女仆来宣布晚餐时，哈克太太还没有下来，所以我说：“她可能累了。”让晚餐等一个小时吧，”然后我继续我的工作。我刚写完哈克夫人的日记，她就进来了。她看起来甜美漂亮，但很悲伤，她的眼睛哭得通红。这在某种程度上让我很感动。最近我有理由流泪，上帝知道！但我却没有得到它们的安慰，现在，那双甜蜜的眼睛因最近的泪水而变得明亮，直接进入了我的心。所以我尽可能温柔地说：“我很担心我让你感到难过。”

‘Oh, no, not distressed me,’ she replied. ‘But I have been more touched than I can say by your grief. That is a wonderful machine, but it is cruelly true. It told me, in its very tones, the anguish of your heart. It was like a soul crying out to Almighty God. No one must hear them spoken ever again! See, I have tried to be useful. I have copied out the words on my typewriter, and none other need now hear your heart beat, as I did.’
“哦，不，我并不难过，”她回答道。 “但我对你的悲伤所感动，难以言表。”那是一台很棒的机器，但它却是残酷的事实。它用它的语气告诉我你内心的痛苦。就像一个灵魂向全能的上帝呼喊。任何人都不能再听到他们说话！看吧，我已经尽力变得有用了。我已经在打字机上抄下了这些话，现在没有人需要像我一样听到你的心跳。

‘No one need ever know, shall ever know,’ I said in a low voice. She laid her hand on mine and said very gravely, ‘Ah, but they must!’
“没有人需要知道，也永远不会知道，”我低声说道。她把手放在我的手上，严肃地说：“啊，但他们必须这么做！”

‘Must! but why?’ I asked.
'必须！但为什么呢？”我问。

‘Because it is a part of the terrible story, a part of poor Lucy’s death and all that led to it. Because in the struggle which we have before us to rid the earth of this terrible monster we must have all the knowledge and all the help which we can get. I think that the cylinders which you gave me contained more than you intended me to know. But I can see that there are in your record many lights to this dark mystery. You will let me help, will you not? I know all up to a certain point, and I see already, though your diary only took me to 7 September, how poor Lucy was beset, and how her terrible doom was being wrought out. Jonathan and I have been working day and night since Professor Van Helsing saw us. He is gone to Whitby to get more information, and he will be here tomorrow to help us. We need have no secrets amongst us. Working together and with absolute trust, we can surely be stronger than if some of us were in the dark.’
“因为这是可怕故事的一部分，是可怜的露西之死以及导致这一切的原因的一部分。因为在我们面前为消灭地球上这个可怕的怪物而进行的斗争中，我们必须拥有我们可以获得的所有知识和所有帮助。我认为你给我的钢瓶里的东西比你想让我知道的还要多。但我可以看到，在你的记录中，有许多关于这个黑暗之谜的线索。你会让我帮忙的，不是吗？我在某种程度上知道一切，而且我已经看到了，虽然你的日记只带我到了9月7日，但可怜的露西受到了多么严重的困扰，以及她可怕的厄运正在如何发生。自从范海辛教授见到我们以来，乔纳森和我一直在夜以继日地工作。他要去惠特比获取更多信息，明天他会在这里帮助我们。我们之间不需要有任何秘密。凭借绝对的信任共同努力，我们肯定会比我们中的一些人处于黑暗中时更加强大。”

She looked at me so appealingly, and at the same time manifested such courage and resolution in her bearing, that I gave in at once to her wishes. ‘You shall,’ I said, ‘do as you like in the matter. God forgive me if I do wrong! There are terrible things yet to learn of. But if you have so far traveled on the road to poor Lucy’s death, you will not be content, I know, to remain in the dark. Nay, the end, the very end, may give you a gleam of peace. Come, there is dinner. We must keep one another strong for what is before us. We have a cruel and dreadful task. When you have eaten you shall learn the rest, and I shall answer any questions you ask, if there be anything which you do not understand, though it was apparent to us who were present.’
她用充满吸引力的眼神看着我，同时又表现出勇气和决心，我立刻就答应了她的愿望。 “你应该，”我说，“在这件事上你想怎么做就怎么做。”如果我做错了，上帝原谅我！还有一些可怕的事情有待了解。但如果你已经在导致可怜的露西死亡的道路上走了这么远，我知道你不会满足于留在黑暗中。不，最后，最后的最后，可能会给你一丝平静。来吧，有晚饭了。我们必须让彼此坚强，应对眼前的事情。我们面临着一项残酷而可怕的任务。当你吃完后，你将学习剩下的事情，如果你有任何不明白的地方，我将回答你提出的任何问题，尽管对在场的我们来说这是显而易见的。

MINA HARKER’S JOURNAL
米娜·哈克的日记

29 September.—After dinner I came with Dr. Seward to his study. He brought back the phonograph from my room, and I took a chair, and arranged the phonograph so that I could touch it without getting up, and showed me how to stop it in case I should want to pause. Then he very thoughtfully took a chair, with his back to me, so that I might be as free as possible, and began to read. I put the forked metal to my ears and listened.
9 月 29 日——晚餐后，我和苏厄德博士一起来到他的书房。他从我的房间拿回留声机，我拿了一把椅子，把留声机摆好，这样我就可以不用起身触摸它，并向我展示如何停止它，以防我想暂停。然后他若有所思地坐了一把椅子，背对着我，这样我就可以尽可能自由地开始读书。我把叉状金属放在耳朵上听。

When the terrible story of Lucy’s death, and all that followed, was done, I lay back in my chair powerless. Fortunately I am not of a fainting disposition. When Dr. Seward saw me he jumped up with a horrified exclamation, and hurriedly taking a case bottle from the cupboard, gave me some brandy, which in a few minutes somewhat restored me. My brain was all in a whirl, and only that there came through all the multitude of horrors, the holy ray of light that my dear Lucy was at last at peace, I do not think I could have borne it without making a scene. It is all so wild and mysterious, and strange that if I had not known Jonathan’s experience in Transylvania I could not have believed. As it was, I didn’t know what to believe, and so got out of my difficulty by attending to something else. I took the cover off my typewriter, and said to Dr. Seward,
当露西之死的可怕故事以及随后发生的一切都结束后，我无力地靠在椅子上。幸运的是我没有晕厥的倾向。苏厄德医生一看到我，吓得跳了起来，急忙从柜子里拿出一箱瓶子，给了我一些白兰地，几分钟后我就恢复了一些。我的大脑一片混乱，只有经历了那么多的恐怖之后，我亲爱的露西终于平静下来的神圣光芒，我想我无法忍受而不大吵大闹。这一切都是那么狂野、神秘、奇怪，如果我不知道乔纳森在特兰西瓦尼亚的经历，我简直不敢相信。事实上，我不知道该相信什么，所以通过关注其他事情来摆脱困境。我取下打字机的盖子，对苏厄德博士说：

‘Let me write this all out now. We must be ready for Dr. Van Helsing when he comes. I have sent a telegram to Jonathan to come on here when he arrives in London from Whitby. In this matter dates are everything, and I think that if we get all of our material ready, and have every item put in chronological order, we shall have done much.
‘现在让我把这一切写下来。当范海辛博士到来时，我们必须做好准备。我已经给乔纳森发了一封电报，请他在从惠特比抵达伦敦时过来。在这件事上，日期就是一切，我认为，如果我们准备好所有材料，并按时间顺序排列每一项，我们就会做得很多。

‘You tell me that Lord Godalming and Mr. Morris are coming too. Let us be able to tell them when they come.’
“你告诉我戈达尔明勋爵和莫里斯先生也会来。让我们能够在他们来的时候告诉他们。

He accordingly set the phonograph at a slow pace, and I began to typewrite from the beginning of the seventeenth cylinder. I used manifold, and so took three copies of the diary, just as I had done with the rest. It was late when I got through, but Dr. Seward went about his work of going his round of the patients. When he had finished he came back and sat near me, reading, so that I did not feel too lonely whilst I worked. How good and thoughtful he is. The world seems full of good men, even if there are monsters in it.
他于是把留声机调慢了速度，我从第十七筒开始打字。我用了manifold，所以拿了三份日记，就像我处理其余的一样。我接通电话时已经很晚了，但苏厄德医生仍在继续查房的工作。当他读完后，他回来坐在我旁边看书，这样我工作时就不会感到太孤独了。他是多么善良、多么体贴啊。这个世界似乎充满了好人，即使其中有怪物。

Before I left him I remembered what Jonathan put in his diary of the Professor’s perturbation at reading something in an evening paper at the station at Exeter, so, seeing that Dr. Seward keeps his newspapers, I borrowed the files of ‘The Westminster Gazette’ and ‘The Pall Mall Gazette’ and took them to my room. I remember how much the ‘Dailygraph’ and ‘The Whitby Gazette’, of which I had made cuttings, had helped us to understand the terrible events at Whitby when Count Dracula landed, so I shall look through the evening papers since then, and perhaps I shall get some new light. I am not sleepy, and the work will help to keep me quiet.
在我离开他之前，我想起乔纳森在他的日记中写到教授在埃克塞特车站读晚报时的不安，所以，看到苏厄德博士保留了他的报纸，我借了《威斯敏斯特公报》的文件和《颇尔美尔公报》，然后把它们带到我的房间。我记得我剪下来的《每日新闻》和《惠特比公报》对我们了解德古拉伯爵登陆时在惠特比发生的可怕事件有多大帮助，所以从那时起我会翻阅晚报，也许我会得到一些新的曙光。我不困，工作会让我保持安静。

DR. SEWARD’S DIARY
博士。苏厄德的日记

30 September.—Mr. Harker arrived at nine o’clock. He got his wife’s wire just before starting. He is uncommonly clever, if one can judge from his face, and full of energy. If this journal be true, and judging by one’s own wonderful experiences, it must be, he is also a man of great nerve. That going down to the vault a second time was a remarkable piece of daring. After reading his account of it I was prepared to meet a good specimen of manhood, but hardly the quiet, businesslike gentleman who came here today.
9 月 30 日——先生。哈克九点钟到达。就在出发前，他接到了妻子的电报。从他的脸上就可以看出，他非常聪明，而且精力充沛。如果这篇日记属实，从自己的精彩经历来看，他一定也是一个有胆量的人。第二次进入金库是一项了不起的大胆行为。读完他的描述后，我准备好见到一位男子气概的典范，但并不是今天来到这里的那位安静、务实的绅士。

LATER.—After lunch Harker and his wife went back to their own room, and as I passed a while ago I heard the click of the typewriter. They are hard at it. Mrs. Harker says that knitting together in chronological order every scrap of evidence they have. Harker has got the letters between the consignee of the boxes at Whitby and the carriers in London who took charge of them. He is now reading his wife’s transcript of my diary. I wonder what they make out of it. Here it is …
后来——午饭后，哈克和他的妻子回到了自己的房间，不久前我经过时，听到了打字机的咔哒声。他们很努力。哈克夫人说，他们按照时间顺序将他们掌握的每一个证据拼凑在一起。哈克收到了惠特比箱子的收货人与负责这些箱子的伦敦承运人之间的信件。他现在正在读他妻子写的我的日记本。我想知道他们从中得到了什么。这里是 …

Strange that it never struck me that the very next house might be the Count’s hiding place! Goodness knows that we had enough clues from the conduct of the patient Renfield! The bundle of letters relating to the purchase of the house were with the transcript. Oh, if we had only had them earlier we might have saved poor Lucy! Stop! That way madness lies! Harker has gone back, and is again collecting material. He says that by dinner time they will be able to show a whole connected narrative. He thinks that in the meantime I should see Renfield, as hitherto he has been a sort of index to the coming and going of the Count. I hardly see this yet, but when I get at the dates I suppose I shall. What a good thing that Mrs. Harker put my cylinders into type! We never could have found the dates otherwise.
奇怪的是，我从来没有想到隔壁的房子可能是伯爵的藏身之处！天知道我们从病人伦菲尔德的行为中得到了足够的线索！与购买房屋有关的那捆信件还附有文字记录。哦，如果我们早点拥有它们，我们也许就能拯救可怜的露西了！停止！那就是疯狂所在！哈克回去了，又开始收集材料了。他说，到晚餐时间，他们将能够展示一个完整的相互关联的故事。他认为我同时应该去见一下伦菲尔德，因为迄今为止他一直是伯爵来去的索引。我还几乎看不到这一点，但当我确定日期时，我想我会的。哈克夫人把我的圆筒打字真是太好了！否则我们永远不可能找到日期。

I found Renfield sitting placidly in his room with his hands folded, smiling benignly. At the moment he seemed as sane as any one I ever saw. I sat down and talked with him on a lot of subjects, all of which he treated naturally. He then, of his own accord, spoke of going home, a subject he has never mentioned to my knowledge during his sojourn here. In fact, he spoke quite confidently of getting his discharge at once. I believe that, had I not had the chat with Harker and read the letters and the dates of his outbursts, I should have been prepared to sign for him after a brief time of observation. As it is, I am darkly suspicious. All those out-breaks were in some way linked with the proximity of the Count. What then does this absolute content mean? Can it be that his instinct is satisfied as to the vampire’s ultimate triumph? Stay. He is himself zoophagous, and in his wild ravings outside the chapel door of the deserted house he always spoke of ‘master’. This all seems confirmation of our idea. However, after a while I came away. My friend is just a little too sane at present to make it safe to probe him too deep with questions. He might begin to think, and then … So I came away. I mistrust these quiet moods of of his, so I have given the attendant a hint to look closely after him, and to have a strait waistcoat ready in case of need.
我发现雷菲尔德双手合十，平静地坐在自己的房间里，脸上带着和善的微笑。此刻他看起来和我见过的任何人一样理智。我坐下来和他聊了很多话题，他都表现得很自然。然后，他主动谈到了回家的事，据我所知，他在逗留期间从未提及过这个话题。事实上，他非常自信地表示要立即出院。我相信，如果我没有与哈克交谈并阅读他的信件和爆发的日期，我应该在短暂的观察后准备为他签名。事实上，我对此持怀疑态度。所有这些爆发都在某种程度上与伯爵的接近有关。那么这个绝对含量意味着什么呢？难道他的本能对吸血鬼的最终胜利感到满意吗？停留。他本身就是食兽动物，在废弃房屋的教堂门外胡言乱语时，他总是提到“主人”。这一切似乎都证实了我们的想法。然而，过了一会儿我就离开了。我的朋友现在有点太理智了，无法安全地向他提出太深入的问题。他可能会开始思考，然后……所以我就离开了。我不信任他这种安静的心情，所以我就提示服务员要密切关注他，并准备好一件紧身马甲以备不时之需。

JOHNATHAN HARKER’S JOURNAL
约翰纳森·哈克的日记

29 September, in train to London.—When I received Mr. Billington’s courteous message that he would give me any information in his power I thought it best to go down to Whitby and make, on the spot, such inquiries as I wanted. It was now my object to trace that horrid cargo of the Count’s to its place in London. Later, we may be able to deal with it. Billington junior, a nice lad, met me at the station, and brought me to his father’s house, where they had decided that I must spend the night. They are hospitable, with true Yorkshire hospitality, give a guest everything and leave him to do as he likes. They all knew that I was busy, and that my stay was short, and Mr. Billington had ready in his office all the papers concerning the consignment of boxes. It gave me almost a turn to see again one of the letters which I had seen on the Count’s table before I knew of his diabolical plans. Everything had been carefully thought out, and done systematically and with precision. He seemed to have been prepared for every obstacle which might be placed by accident in the way of his intentions being carried out. To use an Americanism, he had ‘taken no chances’, and the absolute accuracy with which his instructions were fulfilled was simply the logical result of his care. I saw the invoice, and took note of it.‘Fifty cases of common earth, to be used for experimental purposes’. Also the copy of the letter to Carter Paterson, and their reply. Of both these I got copies. This was all the information Mr. Billington could give me, so I went down to the port and saw the coastguards, the Customs Officers and the harbour master, who kindly put me in communication with the men who had actually received the boxes. Their tally was exact with the list, and they had nothing to add to the simple description ‘fifty cases of common earth’, except that the boxes were ‘main and mortal heavy’, and that shifting them was dry work. One of them added that it was hard lines that there wasn’t any gentleman ‘such like as like yourself, squire’, to show some sort of appreciation of their efforts in a liquid form. Another put in a rider that the thirst then generated was such that even the time which had elapsed had not completely allayed it. Needless to add, I took care before leaving to lift, forever and adequately, this source of reproach.
9 月 29 日，在前往伦敦的火车上。——当我收到比林顿先生礼貌的信息，表示他会向我提供他力所能及的任何信息时，我认为最好去惠特比，当场进行我想要的询问。现在我的目标是追踪伯爵那批可怕的货物到它在伦敦的所在地。稍后，我们也许可以处理它。小比林顿是个不错的小伙子，他在车站接了我，并带我去了他父亲的家，他们决定我必须在那里过夜。他们热情好客，具有真正的约克郡待客之道，为客人提供一切，让他做他喜欢做的事。他们都知道我很忙，而且停留的时间很短，比林顿先生在他的办公室里准备好了所有有关托运箱子的文件。这让我几乎转过身来再次看到我在知道伯爵的邪恶计划之前在他的桌子上看到的一封信。一切都经过深思熟虑，并系统而精确地完成。他似乎已经做好了准备，应对可能在他的意图实现过程中偶然遇到的每一个障碍。用美国主义来说，他“不冒险”，他的指示得到的绝对准确只是他精心照料的逻辑结果。我看到了发票，记下了：“普通土五十箱，实验用”。还有给卡特·帕特森的信的副本以及他们的答复。我得到了这两本的副本。这是比林顿先生能给我的所有信息，所以我去了港口，见到了海岸警卫队、海关官员和港务长，他们好心地让我与实际收到箱子的人取得联系。 他们的统计与清单完全一致，除了“五十箱普通土”这个简单的描述之外，他们没有任何补充，除了箱子“主要而且非常重”，而且移动它们是一项枯燥的工作。其中一位补充说，没有任何一位“像你这样的绅士，乡绅”能够以流动的形式对他们的努力表示某种赞赏，这实在是太强硬了。另一位骑手感到口渴，即使经过了时间也没有完全缓解。不用说，我在离开之前就小心翼翼地彻底消除了这种责备的根源。

30 September.—The station master was good enough to give me a line to his old companion the station master at King’s Cross, so that when I arrived there in the morning I was able to ask him about the arrival of the boxes. He, too put me at once in communication with the proper officials, and I saw that their tally was correct with the original invoice. The opportunities of acquiring an abnormal thirst had been here limited. A noble use of them had, however, been made, and again I was compelled to deal with the result in ex post facto manner.
9 月 30 日——车站站长非常好心，给我打了一条电话给他的老朋友，国王十字车站的站长，这样当我早上到达那里时，我就可以向他询问箱子到达的情况。他也立即让我与相关官员联系，我发现他们的账目与原始发票是正确的。在这里，出现异常口渴的机会是有限的。然而，它们已经得到了高尚的利用，我再次被迫以事后的方式处理结果。

From thence I went to Carter Paterson’s central office, where I met with the utmost courtesy. They looked up the transaction in their day book and letter book, and at once telephoned to their King’s Cross office for more details. By good fortune, the men who did the teaming were waiting for work, and the official at once sent them over, sending also by one of them the way-bill and all the papers connected with the delivery of the boxes at Carfax. Here again I found the tally agreeing exactly. The carriers’ men were able to supplement the paucity of the written words with a few more details. These were, I shortly found, connected almost solely with the dusty nature of the job, and the consequent thirst engendered in the operators. On my affording an opportunity, through the medium of the currency of the realm, of the allaying, at a later period, this beneficial evil, one of the men remarked,
从那里我去了卡特·帕特森的中央办公室，在那里我受到了极其礼貌的会见。他们在日记本和信件簿中查找了这笔交易，并立即打电话给国王十字车站办公室了解更多详细信息。幸运的是，负责组队的人正在等待工作，官员立即派他们过去，其中一人还寄来了运单以及与在卡法克斯运送箱子有关的所有文件。我再次发现计数完全一致。承运人能够用更多的细节来补充书面文字的不足。我很快发现，这些几乎完全与工作的灰尘性质以及随之而来的操作员的口渴有关。当我提供一个机会，通过王国货币的媒介，在以后的时期减轻这种有益的邪恶时，其中一个人说道：

‘That ‘ere ‘ouse, guv’nor, is the rummiest I ever was in. Blyme! But it ain’t been touched sence a hundred years. There was dust that thick in the place that you might have slep’ on it without ‘urtin’ of yer bones. An’ the place was that neglected that yer might ‘ave smelled ole Jerusalem in it. But the old chapel, that took the cike, that did! Me and my mate, we thort we wouldn’t never git out quick enough. Lor’, I wouldn’t take less nor a quid a moment to stay there arter dark.’
“那是我经历过的最糟糕的拉米比赛。哎呀！”但一百年来一直没有人碰过它。那个地方的灰尘很厚，你可能睡在上面，没有骨头。这个地方被忽视了，你可能会在其中闻到旧耶路撒冷的味道。但是老教堂，那座教堂，确实如此！我和我的伙伴，我们认为我们永远不会足够快地离开。天哪，天黑后我不会花更少的钱，也不会花一分钱留在那儿。”

Having been in the house, I could well believe him, but if he knew what I know, he would, I think have raised his terms.
在这所房子里，我完全可以相信他，但如果他知道我所知道的，我认为他会提高条件。

Of one thing I am now satisfied. That all those boxes which arrived at Whitby from Varna in the Demeter were safely deposited in the old chapel at Carfax. There should be fifty of them there, unless any have since been removed, as from Dr. Seward’s diary I fear.
我现在对一件事很满意。所有从德墨忒尔瓦尔纳运抵惠特比的箱子都安全地存放在卡法克斯的旧教堂里。那里应该有五十个，除非后来有任何一个被删除，就像我担心的苏厄德博士的日记一样。

Later.—Mina and I have worked all day, and we have put all the papers into order.
后来——米娜和我工作了一整天，我们已经把所有的文件整理好了。

MINA HARKER’S JOURNAL
米娜·哈克的日记

30 September.—I am so glad that I hardly know how to contain myself. It is, I suppose, the reaction from the haunting fear which I have had, that this terrible affair and the reopening of his old wound might act detrimentally on Jonathan. I saw him leave for Whitby with as brave a face as could, but I was sick with apprehension. The effort has, however, done him good. He was never so resolute, never so strong, never so full of volcanic energy, as at present. It is just as that dear, good Professor Van Helsing said, he is true grit, and he improves under strain that would kill a weaker nature. He came back full of life and hope and determination. We have got everything in order for tonight. I feel myself quite wild with excitement. I suppose one ought to pity anything so hunted as the Count. That is just it. This thing is not human, not even a beast. To read Dr. Seward’s account of poor Lucy’s death, and what followed, is enough to dry up the springs of pity in one’s heart.
9 月 30 日——我很高兴，几乎不知道如何控制自己。我想，这是我内心挥之不去的恐惧的反应，担心这件可怕的事情和他旧伤口的重新开放可能会对乔纳森产生不利的影响。我看到他带着尽可能勇敢的表情前往惠特比，但我却感到恐惧。然而，这种努力对他有好处。他从来没有像现在这样坚决，从来没有如此坚强，从来没有像现在这样充满火山能量。正如亲爱的、善良的范海辛教授所说，他是真正的勇气，他在足以杀死弱者的压力下不断进步。他回来时充满了生机、希望和决心。我们已经把今晚的一切都安排好了。我感到自己非常兴奋。我想人们应该同情像伯爵这样被追捕的人。就是这样。这东西不是人，甚至不是野兽。阅读苏厄德医生对可怜的露西之死以及随后发生的事情的描述，就足以使人心中的怜悯之泉枯竭。

Later.—Lord Godalming and Mr. Morris arrived earlier than we expected. Dr. Seward was out on business, and had taken Jonathan with him, so I had to see them. It was to me a painful meeting, for it brought back all poor dear Lucy’s hopes of only a few months ago. Of course they had heard Lucy speak of me, and it seemed that Dr. Van Helsing, too, had been quite ‘blowing my trumpet’, as Mr. Morris expressed it. Poor fellows, neither of them is aware that I know all about the proposals they made to Lucy. They did not quite know what to say or do, as they were ignorant of the amount of my knowledge. So they had to keep on neutral subjects. However, I thought the matter over, and came to the conclusion that the best thing I could do would be to post them on affairs right up to date. I knew from Dr. Seward’s diary that they had been at Lucy’s death, her real death, and that I need not fear to betray any secret before the time. So I told them, as well as I could, that I had read all the papers and diaries, and that my husband and I, having typewritten them, had just finished putting them in order. I gave them each a copy to read in the library. When Lord Godalming got his and turned it over, it does make a pretty good pile, he said, ‘Did you write all this, Mrs. Harker?’
后来——戈达尔明勋爵和莫里斯先生比我们预计的要早到达。苏厄德医生出差了，带着乔纳森一起去，所以我必须去见他们。对我来说，这是一次痛苦的会面，因为它让可怜的亲爱的露西又想起了几个月前的所有希望。当然，他们听过露西谈起过我，而且正如莫里斯先生所说，范海辛博士似乎也“吹响了我的号角”。可怜的家伙，他们俩都不知道我知道他们向露西提出的所有建议。他们不太知道该说什么或做什么，因为他们不知道我的知识量。因此他们必须保持中立的话题。然而，我仔细考虑了一下，得出的结论是，我能做的最好的事情就是将它们发布到最新的事务上。我从苏厄德医生的日记中知道，他们是在露西去世时发生的，她真正的死亡，我不必担心在此之前泄露任何秘密。所以我尽我所能告诉他们，我已经阅读了所有的文件和日记，我和我的丈夫已经将它们打印出来，刚刚完成整理。我给了他们每人一本，让他们在图书馆阅读。当戈达明勋爵拿到他的并翻过来时，它确实堆成了一大堆，他说：“这些都是你写的吗，哈克夫人？”

I nodded, and he went on.
我点点头，他继续说道。

‘I don’t quite see the drift of it, but you people are all so good and kind, and have been working so earnestly and so energetically, that all I can do is to accept your ideas blindfold and try to help you. I have had one lesson already in accepting facts that should make a man humble to the last hour of his life. Besides, I know you loved my Lucy …’
“我不太明白其中的意思，但是你们都是那么善良，那么认真，那么努力，我只能蒙着眼睛接受你们的想法，尽力帮助你们。”我已经得到了一个教训，那就是接受事实，这些事实应该使一个人在生命的最后一刻保持谦虚。另外，我知道你爱我的露西……”

Here he turned away and covered his face with his hands. I could hear the tears in his voice. Mr. Morris, with instinctive delicacy, just laid a hand for a moment on his shoulder, and then walked quietly out of the room. I suppose there is something in a woman’s nature that makes a man free to break down before her and express his feelings on the tender or emotional side without feeling it derogatory to his manhood. For when Lord Godalming found himself alone with me he sat down on the sofa and gave way utterly and openly. I sat down beside him and took his hand. I hope he didn’t think it forward of me, and that if he ever thinks of it afterwards he never will have such a thought. There I wrong him. I know he never will. He is too true a gentleman. I said to him, for I could see that his heart was breaking, ‘I loved dear Lucy, and I know what she was to you, and what you were to her. She and I were like sisters, and now she is gone, will you not let me be like a sister to you in your trouble? I know what sorrows you have had, though I cannot measure the depth of them. If sympathy and pity can help in your affliction, won’t you let me be of some little service, for Lucy’s sake?’
说到这里，他转过身来，用手捂住了脸。我能听出他声音中的泪水。莫里斯先生本能地小心翼翼地把手放在他的肩膀上片刻，然后悄悄地走出了房间。我想，女人的天性里有某种东西，能让男人在她面前自由地崩溃，以温柔或情感的方式表达自己的感受，而不会让男人觉得这有损他的男子气概。因为当戈达尔明勋爵发现只有他自己和我在一起时，他就坐在沙发上，彻底地、公开地屈服了。我坐在他旁边，握住他的手。我希望他没有想到我，如果他以后再想的话，他永远不会有这样的想法。我错怪了他。我知道他永远不会。他实在是太绅士了。我看得出来他的心都碎了，我对他说：“我爱亲爱的露西，我知道她对你意味着什么，你对她意味着什么。”我和她本来就像姐妹一样，现在她走了，在你的烦恼中你难道不让我像你的姐妹一样吗？我知道你经历过多少悲伤，尽管我无法衡量它们的深度。如果同情和怜悯能够缓解你的痛苦，你难道不肯让我为露西提供一些小服务吗？

In an instant the poor dear fellow was overwhelmed with grief. It seemed to me that all that he had of late been suffering in silence found a vent at once. He grew quite hysterical, and raising his open hands, beat his palms together in a perfect agony of grief. He stood up and then sat down again, and the tears rained down his cheeks. I felt an infinite pity for him, and opened my arms unthinkingly. With a sob he laid his head on my shoulder and cried like a wearied child, whilst he shook with emotion.
刹那间，这位可怜的亲爱的朋友陷入了悲痛之中。我觉得，他最近默默承受的一切，一下子就找到了出口。他变得非常歇斯底里，举起张开的双手，手掌合在一起，表现出一种极度悲伤的痛苦。他站起来，又坐下来，泪水顺着脸颊流下来。我对他产生了无限的怜悯，不假思索地张开了双臂。他抽泣着，把头靠在我的肩上，像一个疲惫的孩子一样哭泣，同时他激动得浑身发抖。

We women have something of the mother in us that makes us rise above smaller matters when the mother spirit is invoked. I felt this big sorrowing man’s head resting on me, as though it were that of a baby that some day may lie on my bosom, and I stroked his hair as though he were my own child. I never thought at the time how strange it all was.
我们女性身上有一些母亲的特质，当母亲的精神被召唤时，这些特质会让我们超越小事。我感觉到这个悲伤的大男人的头靠在我身上，就像一个婴儿的头，有一天可能会躺在我的怀里，我抚摸他的头发，就像他是我自己的孩子一样。当时我从没想过这一切有多么奇怪。

After a little bit his sobs ceased, and he raised himself with an apology, though he made no disguise of his emotion. He told me that for days and nights past, weary days and sleepless nights, he had been unable to speak with any one, as a man must speak in his time of sorrow. There was no woman whose sympathy could be given to him, or with whom, owing to the terrible circumstance with which his sorrow was surrounded, he could speak freely.
过了一会儿，他的抽泣停止了，他站起来道歉，尽管他没有掩饰自己的情感。他告诉我，过去的日日夜夜，疲惫的日子和不眠之夜，他无法与任何人交谈，就像一个人在悲伤时必须说话一样。没有一个女人能够对他表示同情，也没有一个女人可以在他悲伤的可怕环境下与她畅所欲言。

‘I know now how I suffered,’ he said, as he dried his eyes, ‘but I do not know even yet, and none other can ever know, how much your sweet sympathy has been to me today. I shall know better in time, and believe me that, though I am not ungrateful now, my gratitude will grow with my understanding. You will let me be like a brother, will you not, for all our lives, for dear Lucy’s sake?’
“我现在知道我是多么痛苦了，”他擦干眼睛说道，“但我还不知道，也没有人能知道，今天你们对我的甜蜜同情有多大。”随着时间的推移，我会更加了解，相信我，虽然我现在并不忘恩负义，但我的感激之情会随着我的理解而增长。看在亲爱的露西的份上，你会让我像兄弟一样，不是吗？

‘For dear Lucy’s sake,’ I said as we clasped hands. ‘Ay, and for your own sake,’ he added, ‘for if a man’s esteem and gratitude are ever worth the winning, you have won mine today. If ever the future should bring to you a time when you need a man’s help, believe me, you will not call in vain. God grant that no such time may ever come to you to break the sunshine of your life, but if it should ever come, promise me that you will let me know.’
“看在亲爱的露西的份上，”我们握着手时我说道。 “是的，为了你自己，”他补充道，“如果一个人的尊重和感激值得赢得，那么你今天赢得了我的尊重和感激。”如果未来有一天你需要男人的帮助，请相信我，你的呼唤不会白费。上帝保佑你永远不会有这样的时刻来破坏你生命中的阳光，但如果它真的到来，请答应我，你会让我知道。

He was so earnest, and his sorrow was so fresh, that I felt it would comfort him, so I said, ‘I promise.’
他是如此真诚，他的悲伤如此新鲜，我觉得这会安慰他，所以我说：“我保证。”

As I came along the corridor I say Mr. Morris looking out of a window. He turned as he heard my footsteps. ‘How is Art?’ he said. Then noticing my red eyes, he went on, ‘Ah, I see you have been comforting him. Poor old fellow! He needs it. No one but a woman can help a man when he is in trouble of the heart, and he had no one to comfort him.’
当我沿着走廊走来时，我说莫里斯先生正在往窗外看。听到我的脚步声，他转过身来。 “艺术怎么样？”他说。然后他注意到我红了眼睛，继续说道：“啊，我看到你一直在安慰他。”可怜的老家伙！他需要它。当一个男人内心有困难时，除了女人之外没有人可以帮助他，而他也没有人来安慰他。

He bore his own trouble so bravely that my heart bled for him. I saw the manuscript in his hand, and I knew that when he read it he would realize how much I knew, so I said to him, ‘I wish I could comfort all who suffer from the heart. Will you let me be your friend, and will you come to me for comfort if you need it? You will know later why I speak.’
他如此勇敢地承担自己的困难，我的心为他流血。我看到他手里的手稿，我知道当他读到的时候，他会知道我知道多少，所以我对他说：‘我希望能够安慰所有心灵受苦的人。你愿意让我成为你的朋友吗？如果你需要的话，你会来找我寻求安慰吗？稍后你就会知道我为什么说话。

He saw that I was in earnest, and stooping, took my hand, and raising it to his lips, kissed it. It seemed but poor comfort to so brave and unselfish a soul, and impulsively I bent over and kissed him. The tears rose in his eyes, and there was a momentary choking in his throat. He said quite calmly, ‘Little girl, you will never forget that true hearted kindness, so long as ever you live!’ Then he went into the study to his friend.
他看到我是认真的，弯下腰，握住我的手，举到唇边，吻了吻。对于如此勇敢和无私的灵魂来说，这似乎是微不足道的安慰，我冲动地弯下腰吻了他。泪水在眼眶里打转，喉咙里有一瞬间的哽咽。他平静地说：“小姑娘，只要你活着，你就永远不会忘记这份真心！”然后他走进书房，去找他的朋友。

‘Little girl!’ The very words he had used to Lucy, and, oh, but he proved himself a friend.
“小女孩！”这正是他对露西说过的话，哦，但他证明了自己是一个朋友。

Chapter 18
第18章

DR. SEWARD’S DIARY
博士。苏厄德的日记

30 September.—I got home at five o’clock, and found that Godalming and Morris had not only arrived, but had already studied the transcript of the various diaries and letters which Harker had not yet returned from his visit to the carriers’ men, of whom Dr. Hennessey had written to me. Mrs. Harker gave us a cup of tea, and I can honestly say that, for the first time since I have lived in it, this old house seemed like home. When we had finished, Mrs. Harker said,
9月30日——我五点钟回到家，发现戈德尔明和莫里斯不仅已经到了，而且还研究了哈克拜访航母人员后尚未归还的各种日记和信件的笔录。 ，亨尼西博士写信给我提到了他。哈克夫人给我们倒了一杯茶，我可以诚实地说，自从我住进这栋老房子以来，第一次感觉这栋老房子像家一样。当我们结束时，哈克夫人说：

‘Dr. Seward, may I ask a favour? I want to see your patient, Mr. Renfield. Do let me see him. What you have said of him in your diary interests me so much!’
‘博士。苏厄德，我可以请你帮个忙吗？我想见见你的病人，伦菲尔德先生。一定要让我见见他。你在日记中对他的评价让我非常感兴趣！”

She looked so appealing and so pretty that I could not refuse her, and there was no possible reason why I should, so I took her with me. When I went into the room, I told the man that a lady would like to see him, to which he simply answered, ‘Why?’
她看起来那么迷人、那么漂亮，我无法拒绝她，也没有理由拒绝她，所以我带着她一起去。当我走进房间时，我告诉那个男人，一位女士想见他，他只是回答说：“为什么？”

‘She is going through the house, and wants to see every one in it,’ I answered.
“她正在房子里巡视，想看看里面的每一个人，”我回答道。

‘Oh, very well,’ he said, ‘let her come in, by all means, but just wait a minute till I tidy up the place.’
“哦，很好，”他说，“无论如何，让她进来吧，但等我收拾一下这个地方。”

His method of tidying was peculiar, he simply swallowed all the flies and spiders in the boxes before I could stop him. It was quite evident that he feared, or was jealous of, some interference. When he had got through his disgusting task, he said cheerfully, ‘Let the lady come in,’ and sat down on the edge of his bed with his head down, but with his eyelids raised so that he could see her as she entered. For a moment I thought that he might have some homicidal intent. I remembered how quiet he had been just before he attacked me in my own study, and I took care to stand where I could seize him at once if he attempted to make a spring at her.
他收拾东西的方式很奇特，在我阻止他之前，他就把盒子里的苍蝇和蜘蛛都吞了下去。很明显，他害怕，或者嫉妒，有人干涉。当他完成了这项令人厌恶的任务后，他高兴地说道：“让这位女士进来吧。”然后他低着头坐在床边，但眼睑抬起，这样当她进来时他就能看到她。我一度以为他可能有杀人的意图。我记得他在我自己的书房里袭击我之前是多么安静，我小心翼翼地站在一个地方，如果他试图向她扑来，我可以立即抓住他。

She came into the room with an easy gracefulness which would at once command the respect of any lunatic, for easiness is one of the qualities mad people most respect. She walked over to him, smiling pleasantly, and held out her hand.
她带着一种从容的优雅走进房间，这会立即赢得任何疯子的尊重，因为从容是疯子最尊重的品质之一。她走到他身边，笑容灿烂，伸出了手。

‘Good evening, Mr. Renfield,’ said she. ‘You see, I know you, for Dr. Seward has told me of you.’ He made no immediate reply, but eyed her all over intently with a set frown on his face. This look gave way to one of wonder, which merged in doubt, then to my intense astonishment he said, ‘You’re not the girl the doctor wanted to marry, are you? You can’t be, you know, for she’s dead.’
“晚上好，伦菲尔德先生，”她说。 “你看，我认识你，因为苏厄德医生告诉过我你的事。”他没有立即回答，而是皱着眉头专注地打量着她。这种表情让位给了一种惊奇，又融入了怀疑，然后令我非常惊讶的是，他说：“你不是医生想娶的那个女孩，是吗？”你知道，你不可能这样，因为她已经死了。

Mrs. Harker smiled sweetly as she replied, ‘Oh no! I have a husband of my own, to whom I was married before I ever saw Dr. Seward, or he me. I am Mrs. Harker.’
哈克夫人甜甜地笑着回答说：“哦不！我有自己的丈夫，在我见到苏厄德医生，或者他我之前，我就和他结婚了。我是哈克夫人。

‘Then what are you doing here?’
“那你来这里做什么？”

‘My husband and I are staying on a visit with Dr. Seward.’
“我和我的丈夫正在拜访苏厄德医生。”

‘Then don’t stay.’
“那就别留下来了。”

‘But why not?’
“但为什么不呢？”

I thought that this style of conversation might not be pleasant to Mrs. Harker, any more than it was to me, so I joined in, ‘How did you know I wanted to marry anyone?’
我想哈克夫人可能会不喜欢这种谈话方式，就像我一样，所以我插话道：“你怎么知道我想嫁给任何人？”

His reply was simply contemptuous, given in a pause in which he turned his eyes from Mrs. Harker to me, instantly turning them back again, ‘What an asinine question!’
他的回答只是轻蔑的，停顿了一下，他把目光从哈克夫人转向我，然后又立即转回来，“多么愚蠢的问题啊！”

‘I don’t see that at all, Mr. Renfield,’ said Mrs. Harker, at once championing me.
“我根本不这么认为，伦菲尔德先生，”哈克夫人立即支持我说。

He replied to her with as much courtesy and respect as he had shown contempt to me, ‘You will, of course, understand, Mrs. Harker, that when a man is so loved and honoured as our host is, everything regarding him is of interest in our little community. Dr. Seward is loved not only by his household and his friends, but even by his patients, who, being some of them hardly in mental equilibrium, are apt to distort causes and effects. Since I myself have been an inmate of a lunatic asylum, I cannot but notice that the sophistic tendencies of some of its inmates lean towards the errors of non causa and ignoratio elenche.’
他以对我的蔑视一样的礼貌和尊重回答了她，“哈克夫人，您当然会明白，当一个人像我们的主人一样受到如此爱戴和尊敬时，与他有关的一切都是由他自己决定的。”对我们的小社区感兴趣。苏厄德医生不仅受到他的家人和朋友的喜爱，甚至还受到他的病人的喜爱，因为他们中的一些人精神状态不稳定，容易扭曲因果关系。由于我本人曾是疯人院的囚犯，所以我不能不注意到，有些囚犯的诡辩倾向倾向于无因和无知的错误。

I positively opened my eyes at this new development. Here was my own pet lunatic, the most pronounced of his type that I had ever met with, talking elemental philosophy, and with the manner of a polished gentleman. I wonder if it was Mrs. Harker’s presence which had touched some chord in his memory. If this new phase was spontaneous, or in any way due to her unconscious influence, she must have some rare gift or power.
我积极地睁开眼睛看到这个新的发展。这是我自己的宠物疯子，是我见过的最明显的疯子，他以优雅绅士的方式谈论基本哲学。我想知道哈克夫人的出现是否触动了他记忆中的某些心弦。如果这个新阶段是自发的，或者以某种方式由于她无意识的影响，那么她一定拥有某种罕见的天赋或力量。

We continued to talk for some time, and seeing that he was seemingly quite reasonable, she ventured, looking at me questioningly as she began, to lead him to his favourite topic. I was again astonished, for he addressed himself to the question with the impartiality of the completest sanity. He even took himself as an example when he mentioned certain things.
我们继续聊了一会儿，看到他看上去很有道理，她开始冒险，用疑问的眼神看着我，引导他谈到他最喜欢的话题。我再次感到惊讶，因为他以完全理智的公正态度回答了这个问题。甚至在提到某些事情的时候，他还以自己为例。

‘Why, I myself am an instance of a man who had a strange belief. Indeed, it was no wonder that my friends were alarmed, and insisted on my being put under control. I used to fancy that life was a positive and perpetual entity, and that by consuming a multitude of live things, no matter how low in the scale of creation, one might indefinitely prolong life. At times I held the belief so strongly that I actually tried to take human life. The doctor here will bear me out that on one occasion I tried to kill him for the purpose of strengthening my vital powers by the assimilation with my own body of his life through the medium of his blood, relying of course, upon the Scriptural phrase, ‘For the blood is the life.’ Though, indeed, the vendor of a certain nostrum has vulgarized the truism to the very point of contempt. Isn’t that true, doctor?’
‘哎呀，我自己就是一个有着奇怪信念的人的例子。确实，难怪我的朋友们感到惊慌，并坚持要控制我。我曾经幻想生命是一个积极而永恒的实体，通过食用大量的生物，无论造物的规模有多低，人们都可以无限期地延长生命。有时我的信念如此坚定，以至于我实际上试图夺取人的生命。这里的医生会向我证明，有一次我试图杀死他，目的是通过他的血液与我自己的身体同化，以增强我的生命力，当然，依赖于圣经的短语： “因为血液就是生命。”尽管如此，确实，某种秘方的供应商已经将这个不言而喻的道理庸俗化到了令人蔑视的地步。是吗，医生？

I nodded assent, for I was so amazed that I hardly knew what to either think or say, it was hard to imagine that I had seen him eat up his spiders and flies not five minutes before. Looking at my watch, I saw that I should go to the station to meet Van Helsing, so I told Mrs. Harker that it was time to leave.
我点头表示同意，因为我太惊讶了，几乎不知道该想什么或该说什么，很难想象不到五分钟前我亲眼看到他吃掉了蜘蛛和苍蝇。看了看表，我应该去车站接范海辛，于是我告诉哈克夫人该出发了。

She came at once, after saying pleasantly to Mr. Renfield, ‘Goodbye, and I hope I may see you often, under auspices pleasanter to yourself.’
她愉快地对伦菲尔德先生说：“再见，希望能经常见到你，让你感到更愉快。”之后她立刻就来了。

To which, to my astonishment, he replied, ‘Goodbye, my dear. I pray God I may never see your sweet face again. May He bless and keep you!’
令我惊讶的是，他回答说：“再见，亲爱的。”我祈求上帝让我再也见不到你可爱的脸。愿他祝福并保守你！

When I went to the station to meet Van Helsing I left the boys behind me. Poor Art seemed more cheerful than he has been since Lucy first took ill, and Quincey is more like his own bright self than he has been for many a long day.
当我去车站迎接范海辛时，我把男孩们留在了身后。自从露西第一次生病以来，可怜的阿特似乎比以往任何时候都更加高兴，而昆西也比许多漫长的一天更像他自己明亮的自我。

Van Helsing stepped from the carriage with the eager nimbleness of a boy. He saw me at once, and rushed up to me, saying, ‘Ah, friend John, how goes all? Well? So! I have been busy, for I come here to stay if need be. All affairs are settled with me, and I have much to tell. Madam Mina is with you? Yes. And her so fine husband? And Arthur and my friend Quincey, they are with you, too? Good!’
范海辛带着男孩般的敏捷敏捷走下马车。他立刻看到了我，冲到我身边，说道：‘啊，约翰朋友，一切怎么样？出色地？所以！我一直很忙，因为如果需要的话我会来这里留下来。一切事情都由我解决，我还有很多话要说。米娜女士和你在一起吗？是的。还有她这么优秀的老公？亚瑟和我的朋友昆西，他们也和你在一起吗？好的！'

As I drove to the house I told him of what had passed, and of how my own diary had come to be of some use through Mrs. Harker’s suggestion, at which the Professor interrupted me.
当我开车回家时，我告诉他发生了什么事，以及我自己的日记如何通过哈克夫人的建议变得有用，这时教授打断了我。

‘Ah, that wonderful Madam Mina! She has man’s brain, a brain that a man should have were he much gifted, and a woman’s heart. The good God fashioned her for a purpose, believe me, when He made that so good combination. Friend John, up to now fortune has made that woman of help to us, after tonight she must not have to do with this so terrible affair. It is not good that she run a risk so great. We men are determined, nay, are we not pledged, to destroy this monster? But it is no part for a woman. Even if she be not harmed, her heart may fail her in so much and so many horrors and hereafter she may suffer, both in waking, from her nerves, and in sleep, from her dreams. And, besides, she is young woman and not so long married, there may be other things to think of some time, if not now. You tell me she has wrote all, then she must consult with us, but tomorrow she say goodbye to this work, and we go alone.’
“啊，那位出色的米娜女士！她有男人的大脑，一个男人应该有的大脑，如果他有天赋的话，还有女人的心。相信我，善良的上帝创造她是有目的的，他创造了如此完美的组合。朋友约翰，到目前为止，幸运的是那个女人对我们有帮助，今晚之后她一定不会再参与这件如此可怕的事情。她冒这么大的风险可不好。我们人类决心，不，我们不是发誓要消灭这个怪物吗？但这不适合女人。即使她没有受到伤害，她的心脏也可能会因如此多的恐惧而失败，此后她可能会在清醒时因神经紧张而在睡眠中因梦中而受苦。而且，再说了，她是年轻女子，结婚时间不长，以后可能会有其他事情要考虑，即使不是现在。你告诉我她已经全部写完了，那么她必须与我们商量，但明天她就要告别这项工作，我们就单独去吧。

I agreed heartily with him, and then I told him what we had found in his absence, that the house which Dracula had bought was the very next one to my own. He was amazed, and a great concern seemed to come on him.
我衷心同意他的观点，然后我告诉他我们在他不在的时候发现了什么，德古拉买的房子就在我自己的房子旁边。他吃了一惊，心中似乎升起一股莫大的忧虑。

‘Oh that we had known it before!’ he said, ‘for then we might have reached him in time to save poor Lucy. However, ‘the milk that is spilt cries not out afterwards,’as you say. We shall not think of that, but go on our way to the end.’ Then he fell into a silence that lasted till we entered my own gateway. Before we went to prepare for dinner he said to Mrs. Harker, ‘I am told, Madam Mina, by my friend John that you and your husband have put up in exact order all things that have been, up to this moment.’
“哦，要是我们早知道就好了！”他说，“这样我们就可以及时找到他，拯救可怜的露西。”然而，正如你所说，‘洒出来的牛奶后来不会哭出来’。我们不会想这个，而是继续前进，直到终点。”然后他陷入了沉默，一直持续到我们进入我自己的大门。在我们去准备晚餐之前，他对哈克夫人说：“米娜女士，我的朋友约翰告诉我，你和你的丈夫已经按照正确的顺序安排了到目前为止的所有事情。”

‘Not up to this moment, Professor,’ she said impulsively, ‘but up to this morning.’
“教授，不是现在，”她冲动地说，“而是到今天早上。”

‘But why not up to now? We have seen hitherto how good light all the little things have made. We have told our secrets, and yet no one who has told is the worse for it.’
“但是为什么到现在为止还没有呢？到目前为止，我们已经看到所有小东西所产生的光线是多么好。我们已经说出了我们的秘密，但没有人会因此而感到更糟糕。”

Mrs. Harker began to blush, and taking a paper from her pockets, she said, ‘Dr. Van Helsing, will you read this, and tell me if it must go in. It is my record of today. I too have seen the need of putting down at present everything, however trivial, but there is little in this except what is personal. Must it go in?’
哈克夫人开始脸红，从口袋里掏出一张纸，说道：“博士。”范海辛，你能读一下这个吗，并告诉我是否必须录入。这是我今天的记录。我也看到了目前放下一切的必要性，无论多么琐碎，但除了个人的事情之外，几乎没有什么。一定要进去吗？

The Professor read it over gravely, and handed it back, saying, ‘It need not go in if you do not wish it, but I pray that it may. It can but make your husband love you the more, and all us, your friends, more honour you, as well as more esteem and love.’ She took it back with another blush and a bright smile.
教授严肃地读了一遍，然后把它递了回去，说道：“如果你不希望的话，就不必放进去，但我祈祷它可以。”它只能让你的丈夫更加爱你，让我们所有的朋友更加尊重你，更加尊敬和爱护你。”她又红了脸，露出灿烂的笑容收回了这句话。

And so now, up to this very hour, all the records we have are complete and in order. The Professor took away one copy to study after dinner, and before our meeting, which is fixed for nine o’clock. The rest of us have already read everything, so when we meet in the study we shall all be informed as to facts, and can arrange our plan of battle with this terrible and mysterious enemy.
所以现在，直到此时，我们拥有的所有记录都是完整且有序的。晚饭后和我们定于九点钟开会之前，教授拿走了一本来学习。我们其他人都已经读完了所有的内容，所以当我们在书房见面时，我们都会了解事实，并可以安排我们与这个可怕而神秘的敌人的战斗计划。

MINA HARKER’S JOURNAL
米娜·哈克的日记

30 September.—When we met in Dr. Seward’s study two hours after dinner, which had been at six o’clock, we unconsciously formed a sort of board or committee. Professor Van Helsing took the head of the table, to which Dr. Seward motioned him as he came into the room. He made me sit next to him on his right, and asked me to act as secretary. Jonathan sat next to me. Opposite us were Lord Godalming, Dr. Seward, and Mr. Morris, Lord Godalming being next the Professor, and Dr. Seward in the centre.
9 月 30 日——当我们晚饭后两小时，即六点钟，在苏厄德博士的书房见面时，我们不知不觉地组建了一个董事会或委员会。范海辛教授拿起桌头，苏厄德博士走进房间时向他示意。他让我坐在他右边，并让我担任秘书。乔纳森坐在我旁边。我们对面是戈德尔明勋爵、苏厄德博士和莫里斯先生，戈德尔明勋爵旁边是教授，苏厄德博士在中间。

The Professor said, ‘I may, I suppose, take it that we are all acquainted with the facts that are in these papers.’ We all expressed assent, and he went on, ‘Then it were, I think, good that I tell you something of the kind of enemy with which we have to deal. I shall then make known to you something of the history of this man, which has been ascertained for me. So we then can discuss how we shall act, and can take our measure according.
教授说：“我想，我们都熟悉这些论文中的事实。”我们都表示同意，他接着说：“那么，我认为，我告诉大家是件好事。”你就是我们必须对付的那种敌人。然后我将向你们介绍一些我已经查明的这个人的历史。这样我们就可以讨论如何行动，并据此采取措施。

‘There are such beings as vampires, some of us have evidence that they exist. Even had we not the proof of our own unhappy experience, the teachings and the records of the past give proof enough for sane peoples. I admit that at the first I was sceptic. Were it not that through long years I have trained myself to keep an open mind, I could not have believed until such time as that fact thunder on my ear.‘See! See! I prove, I prove.’ Alas! Had I known at first what now I know, nay, had I even guess at him, one so precious life had been spared to many of us who did love her. But that is gone, and we must so work, that other poor souls perish not, whilst we can save. The nosferatu do not die like the bee when he sting once. He is only stronger, and being stronger, have yet more power to work evil. This vampire which is amongst us is of himself so strong in person as twenty men, he is of cunning more than mortal, for his cunning be the growth of ages, he have still the aids of necromancy, which is, as his etymology imply, the divination by the dead, and all the dead that he can come nigh to are for him at command, he is brute, and more than brute, he is devil in callous, and the heart of him is not, he can, within his range, direct the elements, the storm, the fog, the thunder, he can command all the meaner things, the rat, and the owl, and the bat, the moth, and the fox, and the wolf, he can grow and become small, and he can at times vanish and come unknown. How then are we to begin our strike to destroy him? How shall we find his where, and having found it, how can we destroy? My friends, this is much, it is a terrible task that we undertake, and there may be consequence to make the brave shudder. For if we fail in this our fight he must surely win, and then where end we? Life is nothings, I heed him not. But to fail here, is not mere life or death. It is that we become as him, that we henceforward become foul things of the night like him, without heart or conscience, preying on the bodies and the souls of those we love best. To us forever are the gates of heaven shut, for who shall open them to us again? We go on for all time abhorred by all, a blot on the face of God’s sunshine, an arrow in the side of Him who died for man. But we are face to face with duty, and in such case must we shrink? For me, I say no, but then I am old, and life, with his sunshine, his fair places, his song of birds, his music and his love, lie far behind. You others are young. Some have seen sorrow, but there are fair days yet in store. What say you?’
‘有吸血鬼这样的生物，我们中的一些人有证据表明它们存在。即使我们没有自己不幸经历的证据，过去的教义和记录也足以为理智的人们提供证据。我承认一开始我是持怀疑态度的。如果不是多年来我一直训练自己保持开放的心态，直到这个事实在我耳边响起时我才相信。看！我证明，我证明。’唉！如果我一开始就知道我现在所知道的事情，不，如果我猜到了他，那么我们这些真正爱她的人就可以得到一条如此宝贵的生命。但这种情况已经过去了，我们必须努力工作，在我们可以拯救的同时，不要让其他可怜的灵魂灭亡。诺斯费拉图不会像蜜蜂一样被蜇一次后就死掉。他只会更强大，而且越强大，就越有能力作恶。我们中间的这个吸血鬼本身就比二十个人强大，他比凡人更狡猾，因为他的狡猾是随着年龄的增长而增长的，他仍然拥有死灵术的帮助，正如他的词源所暗示的那样，死者的占卜，所有他能接近的死者都听从他的命令，他是畜生，而且比畜生更甚，他是冷酷无情的魔鬼，他的心不在他的范围之内。范围，指挥元素，风暴，雾气，雷霆，他可以指挥所有卑鄙的事物，老鼠，猫头鹰，蝙蝠，飞蛾，狐狸，狼，他可以成长并成为很小，有时他会消失并且不为人知。那么我们该如何开始打击摧毁他呢？我们怎样才能找到他的所在，找到之后，我们怎样才能摧毁呢？我的朋友们，这已经太多了，我们承担的是一项可怕的任务，可能会产生令勇敢者不寒而栗的后果。因为如果我们在这场战斗中失败了，他一定会获胜，那么我们的结局在哪里呢？ 生活没什么，我不理会他。但在这里失败，就不仅仅是生死攸关的事情了。正是我们变得像他一样，从此我们变成了像他一样的夜晚肮脏的东西，没有心，没有良心，掠夺我们最爱的人的身体和灵魂。天国之门对我们永远关闭，谁能为我们再次打开呢？我们永远受到所有人的憎恶，成为上帝阳光脸上的污点，为人类而死的主肋旁的一箭。但我们面对的是责任，在这种情况下我们就必须退缩吗？对我来说，我说不，但我已经老了，生活，连同他的阳光、他美丽的地方、他的鸟鸣、他的音乐和他的爱，都已经远远落后了。你们其他人还年轻。有些人经历了悲伤，但美好的日子还在等待着。你说什么？’

Whilst he was speaking, Jonathan had taken my hand. I feared, oh so much, that the appalling nature of our danger was overcoming him when I saw his hand stretch out, but it was life to me to feel its touch, so strong, so self reliant, so resolute. A brave man’s hand can speak for itself, it does not even need a woman’s love to hear its music.
当他说话时，乔纳森握住了我的手。当我看到他伸出手时，我非常害怕，哦，太害怕了，我们的危险的可怕性质正在征服他，但对我来说，感觉到它的触碰就是生命，如此强烈，如此自力更生，如此坚决。勇敢男人的手会说话，甚至不需要女人的爱才能听到它的音乐。

When the Professor had done speaking my husband looked in my eyes, and I in his, there was no need for speaking between us.
教授讲完后，我丈夫看着我的眼睛，我看着他的眼睛，我们之间没有必要说话。

‘I answer for Mina and myself,’ he said.
“我为米娜和我自己负责，”他说。

‘Count me in, Professor,’ said Mr. Quincey Morris, laconically as usual.
“教授，算我一个。”昆西·莫里斯先生像往常一样简洁地说。

‘I am with you,’ said Lord Godalming, ‘for Lucy’s sake, if for no other reason.’
“我和你在一起，”戈达尔明勋爵说道，“如果没有其他原因，也是为了露西。”

Dr. Seward simply nodded.
苏厄德博士只是点点头。

The Professor stood up and, after laying his golden crucifix on the table, held out his hand on either side. I took his right hand, and Lord Godalming his left, Jonathan held my right with his left and stretched across to Mr. Morris. So as we all took hands our solemn compact was made. I felt my heart icy cold, but it did not even occur to me to draw back. We resumed our places, and Dr. Van Helsing went on with a sort of cheerfulness which showed that the serious work had begun. It was to be taken as gravely, and in as businesslike a way, as any other transaction of life.
教授站起来，将金色十字架放在桌子上，然后向两侧伸出了手。我握住他的右手，戈达尔明勋爵握住他的左手，乔纳森用左手握住我的右手，伸向莫里斯先生。当我们大家握手时，我们庄严的契约就这样签订了。我感觉心冰凉，却没有退缩的念头。我们回到各自的位置，范海辛博士带着一种愉快的心情继续说下去，这表明严肃的工作已经开始了。与生活中的任何其他事务一样，它应该被严肃地、以公事公办的方式对待。

‘Well, you know what we have to contend against, but we too, are not without strength. We have on our side power of combination, a power denied to the vampire kind, we have sources of science, we are free to act and think, and the hours of the day and the night are ours equally. In fact, so far as our powers extend, they are unfettered, and we are free to use them. We have self devotion in a cause and an end to achieve which is not a selfish one. These things are much.
“嗯，你知道我们要对抗什么，但我们也并非没有力量。我们拥有联合的力量，一种吸血鬼所不具备的力量，我们有科学的来源，我们可以自由地行动和思考，白天和黑夜的时间都平等地属于我们。事实上，就我们的权力而言，它们是不受限制的，我们可以自由地使用它们。我们对一项事业和目标进行自我奉献，这不是自私的。这些东西很多。

‘Now let us see how far the general powers arrayed against us are restrict, and how the individual cannot. In fine, let us consider the limitations of the vampire in general, and of this one in particular.
‘现在让我们看看针对我们的一般权力能限制到什么程度，而个人又不能限制到什么程度。最后，让我们考虑一下吸血鬼的总体局限性，尤其是吸血鬼的局限性。

‘All we have to go upon are traditions and superstitions. These do not at the first appear much, when the matter is one of life and death, nay of more than either life or death. Yet must we be satisfied, in the first place because we have to be, no other means is at our control, and secondly, because, after all these things, tradition and superstition, are everything. Does not the belief in vampires rest for others, though not, alas! for us, on them! A year ago which of us would have received such a possibility, in the midst of our scientific, sceptical, matter-of-fact nineteenth century? We even scouted a belief that we saw justified under our very eyes. Take it, then, that the vampire, and the belief in his limitations and his cure, rest for the moment on the same base. For, let me tell you, he is known everywhere that men have been. In old Greece, in old Rome, he flourish in Germany all over, in France, in India, even in the Chermosese, and in China, so far from us in all ways, there even is he, and the peoples for him at this day. He have follow the wake of the berserker Icelander, the devil-begotten Hun, the Slav, the Saxon, the Magyar.
“我们必须遵循的只是传统和迷信。当事情关乎生与死，甚至不仅仅是生与死时，这些一开始并不会显得太多。然而，我们必须满足，首先是因为我们必须满足，没有其他手段是我们可以控制的，其次是因为毕竟这些东西，传统和迷信就是一切。难道吸血鬼的信仰不是为别人而存在的吗，虽然不是，唉！为了我们，为了他们！一年前，在我们这个科学的、怀疑的、实事求是的十九世纪，我们谁会接受这样的可能性呢？我们甚至探寻了一种我们亲眼所见的信念。那么，吸血鬼以及对其局限性和治愈方法的信念暂时建立在同一基础上。因为，让我告诉你，他在人类所到过的任何地方都广为人知。在古希腊、古罗马，他在德国各地、在法国、在印度、甚至在切尔莫塞人和中国蓬勃发展，在所有方面都离我们很远，甚至还有他，还有支持他的人民。天。他追随了狂暴的冰岛人、魔鬼般的匈奴人、斯拉夫人、撒克逊人、马扎尔人的足迹。

‘So far, then, we have all we may act upon, and let me tell you that very much of the beliefs are justified by what we have seen in our own so unhappy experience. The vampire live on, and cannot die by mere passing of the time, he can flourish when that he can fatten on the blood of the living. Even more, we have seen amongst us that he can even grow younger, that his vital faculties grow strenuous, and seem as though they refresh themselves when his special pabulum is plenty.
“那么，到目前为止，我们已经拥有了可以采取行动的一切，让我告诉你，我们在自己如此不愉快的经历中所看到的事情证明了很多信念是正确的。吸血鬼会继续生存，不会因时间的流逝而死亡，只要能吸食活人的鲜血，他就能蓬勃发展。更重要的是，我们在我们中间看到他甚至可以变得更年轻，他的生命机能变得更加旺盛，并且当他的特殊食物充足时，它们似乎会自我恢复。

‘But he cannot flourish without this diet, he eat not as others. Even friend Jonathan, who lived with him for weeks, did never see him eat, never! He throws no shadow, he make in the mirror no reflect, as again Jonathan observe. He has the strength of many of his hand, witness again Jonathan when he shut the door against the wolves, and when he help him from the diligence too. He can transform himself to wolf, as we gather from the ship arrival in Whitby, when he tear open the dog, he can be as bat, as Madam Mina saw him on the window at Whitby, and as friend John saw him fly from this so near house, and as my friend Quincey saw him at the window of Miss Lucy.
“但是如果没有这种饮食，他就无法茁壮成长，他的饮食方式与其他人不同。就连和他住了几个星期的朋友乔纳森也从未见过他吃东西，从来没有！正如乔纳森再次观察到的那样，他没有投射阴影，也没有在镜子中反射。他拥有许多人的力量，再看看乔纳森，当他关上门阻止狼群时，当他也勤奋地帮助他时。他可以把自己变成狼，正如我们从到达惠特比的船上收集到的那样，当他撕开狗时，他可以变成蝙蝠，就像米娜夫人在惠特比的窗户上看到他一样，就像朋友约翰看到他从这里飞走一样就在我家附近，我的朋友昆西在露西小姐的窗前看到了他。

‘He can come in mist which he create, that noble ship’s captain proved him of this, but, from what we know, the distance he can make this mist is limited, and it can only be round himself.
‘他可以在自己创造的迷雾中出现，那艘高贵的船的船长向他证明了这一点，但是，据我们所知，他能制造出这种迷雾的距离是有限的，而且只能围绕着他自己。

‘He come on moonlight rays as elemental dust, as again Jonathan saw those sisters in the castle of Dracula. He become so small, we ourselves saw Miss Lucy, ere she was at peace, slip through a hairbreadth space at the tomb door. He can, when once he find his way, come out from anything or into anything, no matter how close it be bound or even fused up with fire, solder you call it. He can see in the dark, no small power this, in a world which is one half shut from the light. Ah, but hear me through.
“他乘着月光如元素尘埃而来，乔纳森再次在德古拉城堡中看到了那些姐妹。他变得如此渺小，我们亲眼目睹了露西小姐在平静之前，从墓门前的一个细小的空间里溜了进去。一旦他找到了出路，他就可以从任何事物中走出来或进入任何事物，无论它被束缚得多么紧密，甚至被火熔合，你称之为焊接。他可以在黑暗中看到这不小的力量，在一个半封闭的世界里。啊，但是请听我说完。

‘He can do all these things, yet he is not free. Nay, he is even more prisoner than the slave of the galley, than the madman in his cell. He cannot go where he lists, he who is not of nature has yet to obey some of nature’s laws, why we know not. He may not enter anywhere at the first, unless there be some one of the household who bid him to come, though afterwards he can come as he please. His power ceases, as does that of all evil things, at the coming of the day.
‘他可以做所有这些事情，但他并不自由。不仅如此，他甚至比战船的奴隶、牢房里的疯子还要囚徒。他不能去他所列出的地方，非自然的人还没有遵守一些自然法则，为什么我们不知道。一开始他不能进入任何地方，除非家里有人叫他来，但后来他可以随心所欲地来。与所有邪恶事物一样，随着这一天的到来，他的力量就会消失。

‘Only at certain times can he have limited freedom. If he be not at the place whither he is bound, he can only change himself at noon or at exact sunrise or sunset. These things we are told, and in this record of ours we have proof by inference. Thus, whereas he can do as he will within his limit, when he have his earth-home, his coffin-home, his hell-home, the place unhallowed, as we saw when he went to the grave of the suicide at Whitby, still at other time he can only change when the time come. It is said, too, that he can only pass running water at the slack or the flood of the tide. Then there are things which so afflict him that he has no power, as the garlic that we know of, and as for things sacred, as this symbol, my crucifix, that was amongst us even now when we resolve, to them he is nothing, but in their presence he take his place far off and silent with respect. There are others, too, which I shall tell you of, lest in our seeking we may need them.
‘只有在某些时候他才能拥有有限的自由。如果他不在目的地，他只能在中午或日出或日落时改变自己。我们被告知这些事情，并且在我们的这份记录中，我们有推理证据。因此，虽然他可以在自己的限度内为所欲为，但当他有他的地球之家、他的棺材之家、他的地狱之家、这个不神圣的地方时，正如我们在他前往惠特比自杀者的坟墓时所看到的那样，但有时他也只能在时机成熟时改变。据说，他只能在退潮或涨潮时通过流水。还有一些东西让他如此痛苦，以至于他没有力量，就像我们所知道的大蒜一样，至于神圣的东西，就像这个象征，我的十字架，即使现在我们下定决心时，它就在我们中间，对他们来说，他什么也不是。但当他们在场时，他远远地站在自己的位置上，带着尊重地沉默着。还有其他的，我将告诉你，免得我们在寻求时可能需要它们。

‘The branch of wild rose on his coffin keep him that he move not from it, a sacred bullet fired into the coffin kill him so that he be true dead, and as for the stake through him, we know already of its peace, or the cut off head that giveth rest. We have seen it with our eyes.
“他的棺材上的野玫瑰枝让他无法离开棺材，一颗神圣的子弹射入棺材杀死了他，这样他就真正死了，至于通过他的木桩，我们已经知道它的和平，或者让人休息的砍下的头。我们亲眼所见。

‘Thus when we find the habitation of this man-that-was, we can confine him to his coffin and destroy him, if we obey what we know. But he is clever. I have asked my friend Arminius, of Buda-Pesth University, to make his record, and from all the means that are, he tell me of what he has been. He must, indeed, have been that Voivode Dracula who won his name against the Turk, over the great river on the very frontier of Turkeyland. If it be so, then was he no common man, for in that time, and for centuries after, he was spoken of as the cleverest and the most cunning, as well as the bravest of the sons of the ‘land beyond the forest.’ That mighty brain and that iron resolution went with him to his grave, and are even now arrayed against us. The Draculas were, says Arminius, a great and noble race, though now and again were scions who were held by their coevals to have had dealings with the Evil One. They learned his secrets in the Scholomance, amongst the mountains over Lake Hermanstadt, where the devil claims the tenth scholar as his due. In the records are such words as ‘stregoica’ witch, ‘ordog’ and ‘pokol’ Satan and hell, and in one manuscript this very Dracula is spoken of as ‘wampyr,’which we all understand too well. There have been from the loins of this very one great men and good women, and their graves make sacred the earth where alone this foulness can dwell. For it is not the least of its terrors that this evil thing is rooted deep in all good, in soil barren of holy memories it cannot rest.’
“因此，当我们找到这个人的住所时，如果我们服从我们所知道的，我们就可以将他限制在棺材里并摧毁他。但他很聪明。我请布达佩斯大学的朋友阿米纽斯做记录，他通过一切手段告诉我他的经历。事实上，他肯定就是那个在土耳其边境的大河上战胜土耳其人而赢得声誉的德古拉总督。如果是这样，那么他就不是一个普通人了，因为在当时以及之后的几个世纪里，他被认为是“森林之外的土地上最聪明、最狡猾、最勇敢的儿子”。 ’那强大的头脑和钢铁般的决心伴随着他进入了坟墓，甚至现在仍在与我们作对。阿米尼乌斯说，德古拉是一个伟大而高贵的种族，尽管时不时地他们的后代被他们的同时代人认为与邪恶的人有过往来。他们在赫尔曼施塔特湖畔的群山间的通灵学院中得知了他的秘密，魔鬼在那里声称第十位学者是他应得的。记录中包含诸如“stregoica”女巫、“ordog”和“pokol”撒旦和地狱之类的词，而在一份手稿中，这位德古拉被称为“wampyr”，我们都太了解了。从这个人的腰间诞生了伟大的男人和善良的女人，他们的坟墓使地球变得神圣，只有这个肮脏的地方才能居住。因为它最可怕的是，这个邪恶的东西深深植根于一切善行之中，​​在没有神圣记忆的土壤中它无法安息。

Whilst they were talking Mr. Morris was looking steadily at the window, and he now got up quietly, and went out of the room. There was a little pause, and then the Professor went on.
他们说话的时候，莫里斯先生一直盯着窗户，然后他静静地站起来，走出了房间。停顿了一下，然后教授继续说道。

‘And now we must settle what we do. We have here much data, and we must proceed to lay out our campaign. We know from the inquiry of Jonathan that from the castle to Whitby came fifty boxes of earth, all of which were delivered at Carfax, we also know that at least some of these boxes have been removed. It seems to me, that our first step should be to ascertain whether all the rest remain in the house beyond that wall where we look today, or whether any more have been removed. If the latter, we must trace …’
‘现在我们必须解决我们要做的事情。我们这里有很多数据，我们必须继续开展我们的活动。我们从乔纳森的询问中得知，从城堡到惠特比有五十箱泥土，全部是在卡法克斯运来的，我们也知道这些箱子中至少有一些已经被移走了。在我看来，我们的第一步应该是确定所有其余的东西是否仍然留在我们今天看到的那堵墙之外的房子里，或者是否还有更多的东西已经被移走了。如果是后者，我们必须追踪……”

Here we were interrupted in a very startling way. Outside the house came the sound of a pistol shot, the glass of the window was shattered with a bullet, which ricochetting from the top of the embrasure, struck the far wall of the room. I am afraid I am at heart a coward, for I shrieked out. The men all jumped to their feet, Lord Godalming flew over to the window and threw up the sash. As he did so we heard Mr. Morris’ voice without, ‘Sorry! I fear I have alarmed you. I shall come in and tell you about it.’
在这里我们被一种非常令人吃惊的方式打断了。屋外传来手枪射击的声音，窗户的玻璃被子弹打碎，子弹从射击孔顶部弹射出去，击中了房间远处的墙壁。我恐怕内心是个胆小鬼，因为我尖叫了出来。男人们都跳了起来，戈达尔明勋爵飞到窗前，掀起窗框。当他这样做时，我们听到莫里斯先生的声音，但没有说：“对不起！”恐怕我惊动了你。我会进来告诉你这件事。

A minute later he came in and said, ‘It was an idiotic thing of me to do, and I ask your pardon, Mrs. Harker, most sincerely, I fear I must have frightened you terribly. But the fact is that whilst the Professor was talking there came a big bat and sat on the window sill. I have got such a horror of the damned brutes from recent events that I cannot stand them, and I went out to have a shot, as I have been doing of late of evenings, whenever I have seen one. You used to laugh at me for it then, Art.’
一分钟后，他进来说道：“我这么做是一件愚蠢的事情，请您原谅，哈克夫人，最真诚的是，我担心我一定把您吓坏了。”但事实是，当教授说话的时候，一只大蝙蝠走了过来，坐在了窗台上。最近发生的事件让我对这些该死的畜生感到如此恐惧，以至于我无法忍受它们，所以我出去射击，就像我在深夜所做的那样，每当我看到它们时。那时你常常为此嘲笑我，阿特。”

‘Did you hit it?’ asked Dr. Van Helsing.
“你击中了吗？”范海辛博士问道。

‘I don’t know, I fancy not, for it flew away into the wood.’ Without saying any more he took his seat, and the Professor began to resume his statement.
“我不知道，我想不知道，因为它飞进了树林里。”他没有再说什么，就坐了下来，教授开始继续他的发言。

‘We must trace each of these boxes, and when we are ready, we must either capture or kill this monster in his lair, or we must, so to speak, sterilize the earth, so that no more he can seek safety in it. Thus in the end we may find him in his form of man between the hours of noon and sunset, and so engage with him when he is at his most weak.
“我们必须追踪这些盒子中的每一个，当我们准备好时，我们必须捕获或杀死这个怪物在他的巢穴中，或者我们必须，可以这么说，对地球进行消毒，这样他就不能再在其中寻求安全了。因此，最终我们可能会在中午和日落之间发现他以人的形式出现，并在他最虚弱的时候与他接触。

‘And now for you, Madam Mina, this night is the end until all be well. You are too precious to us to have such risk. When we part tonight, you no more must question. We shall tell you all in good time. We are men and are able to bear, but you must be our star and our hope, and we shall act all the more free that you are not in the danger, such as we are.’
“现在对你来说，米娜女士，今晚就是一切的结束，直到一切都好起来。你对我们来说太珍贵了，不能冒这样的风险。当我们今晚分手时，你就不必再质疑了。我们会及时告诉你一切。我们是男人，有能力承受，但你必须成为我们的明星和希望，如果你不像我们一样处于危险之中，我们就会更加自由地行动。

All the men, even Jonathan, seemed relieved, but it did not seem to me good that they should brave danger and, perhaps lessen their safety, strength being the best safety, through care of me, but their minds were made up, and though it was a bitter pill for me to swallow, I could say nothing, save to accept their chivalrous care of me.
所有的人，甚至乔纳森，似乎都松了一口气，但在我看来，他们应该冒着危险，也许会减少他们的安全，通过照顾我，力量是最好的安全，这似乎不太好，但他们已经下定决心，尽管这对我来说是一颗难以下咽的苦果，我什么也说不出来，只能接受他们对我的侠义关怀。

Mr. Morris resumed the discussion, ‘As there is no time to lose, I vote we have a look at his house right now. Time is everything with him, and swift action on our part may save another victim.’
莫里斯先生继续讨论，“既然时间紧迫，我决定我们现在就去看看他的房子。”对他来说，时间就是一切，我们迅速采取行动可能会拯救另一个受害者。

I own that my heart began to fail me when the time for action came so close, but I did not say anything, for I had a greater fear that if I appeared as a drag or a hindrance to their work, they might even leave me out of their counsels altogether. They have now gone off to Carfax, with means to get into the house.
我承认，当行动的时间如此接近时，我的心开始衰竭，但我没有说什么，因为我更担心，如果我成为他们工作的拖累或障碍，他们甚至可能会离开我完全脱离了他们的建议。他们现在已经前往卡法克斯，并准备好进入房子的办法。

Manlike, they had told me to go to bed and sleep, as if a woman can sleep when those she loves are in danger! I shall lie down, and pretend to sleep, lest Jonathan have added anxiety about me when he returns.
像男人一样，他们告诉我去睡觉，就好像一个女人在她所爱的人处于危险之中时可以睡觉一样！我要躺下，假装睡觉，免得乔纳森回来后更加担心我。

DR. SEWARD’S DIARY
博士。苏厄德的日记

1 October, 4 A.M.—Just as we were about to leave the house, an urgent message was brought to me from Renfield to know if I would see him at once, as he had something of the utmost importance to say to me. I told the messenger to say that I would attend to his wishes in the morning, I was busy just at the moment.
10 月 1 日凌晨 4 点——正当我们正要离开家时，伦菲尔德给我发了一条紧急消息，询问我是否可以立即见他，因为他有非常重要的事情要对我说。我告诉使者说我早上会满足他的愿望，我现在很忙。

The attendant added, ‘He seems very importunate, sir. I have never seen him so eager. I don’t know but what, if you don’t see him soon, he will have one of his violent fits.’ I knew the man would not have said this without some cause, so I said, ‘All right, I’ll go now,’ and I asked the others to wait a few minutes for me, as I had to go and see my patient.
服务员补充道：“先生，他看起来很着急。”我从来没有见过他如此急切。我不知道，但是如果你不尽快见到他，他会发作一场剧烈的痉挛。”我知道这个人不会无缘无故地说出这句话，所以我说，“好吧，我”现在就走吧。”我让其他人等我几分钟，因为我得去看病人。

‘Take me with you, friend John,’ said the Professor. ‘His case in your diary interest me much, and it had bearing, too, now and again on our case. I should much like to see him, and especial when his mind is disturbed.’
“带我一起去吧，朋友约翰，”教授说。 “你日记中他的事例让我很感兴趣，它也时不时地与我们的案子有关。我很想见见他，尤其是当他心神不宁的时候。”

‘May I come also?’ asked Lord Godalming.
“我也可以一起去吗？”戈达尔明勋爵问道。

‘Me too?’ said Quincey Morris. ‘May I come?’ said Harker. I nodded, and we all went down the passage together.
“我也是？”昆西·莫里斯说。 “我可以来吗？”哈克说。我点点头，然后我们一起沿着通道走下去。

We found him in a state of considerable excitement, but far more rational in his speech and manner than I had ever seen him. There was an unusual understanding of himself, which was unlike anything I had ever met with in a lunatic, and he took it for granted that his reasons would prevail with others entirely sane. We all five went into the room, but none of the others at first said anything. His request was that I would at once release him from the asylum and send him home. This he backed up with arguments regarding his complete recovery, and adduced his own existing sanity.
我们发现他处于相当兴奋的状态，但他的言语和态度比我见过的他要理性得多。他对自己有一种不同寻常的了解，这与我所见过的任何疯子都不一样，他理所当然地认为他的理由会说服其他完全理智的人。我们五个人都走进了房间，但其他人一开始都没有说什么。他的要求是我立即将他从精神病院释放并送他回家。他用关于他完全康复的论据来支持这一点，并列举了他自己现有的理智。

‘I appeal to your friends, ‘he said, ‘they will, perhaps, not mind sitting in judgement on my case. By the way, you have not introduced me.’
“我向你的朋友们呼吁，”他说，“他们也许不介意对我的案子进行审判。”顺便说一句，你还没有介绍我。”

I was so much astonished, that the oddness of introducing a madman in an asylum did not strike me at the moment, and besides, there was a certain dignity in the man’s manner, so much of the habit of equality, that I at once made the introduction, ‘Lord Godalming, Professor Van Helsing, Mr. Quincey Morris, of Texas, Mr. Jonathan Harker, Mr. Renfield.’
我非常惊讶，当时我并没有想到把一个疯子送进疯人院有什么奇怪的地方，而且，这个人的举止有一定的尊严，有如此多的平等习惯，我立刻就做出了决定。简介：“戈德尔明勋爵、范海辛教授、德克萨斯州的昆西·莫里斯先生、乔纳森·哈克先生、伦菲尔德先生。”

He shook hands with each of them, saying in turn, ‘Lord Godalming, I had the honour of seconding your father at the Windham, I grieve to know, by your holding the title, that he is no more. He was a man loved and honoured by all who knew him, and in his youth was, I have heard, the inventor of a burnt rum punch, much patronized on Derby night. Mr. Morris, you should be proud of your great state. Its reception into the Union was a precedent which may have far-reaching effects hereafter, when the Pole and the Tropics may hold alliance to the Stars and Stripes. The power of Treaty may yet prove a vast engine of enlargement, when the Monroe doctrine takes its true place as a political fable. What shall any man say of his pleasure at meeting Van Helsing? Sir, I make no apology for dropping all forms of conventional prefix. When an individual has revolutionized therapeutics by his discovery of the continuous evolution of brain matter, conventional forms are unfitting, since they would seem to limit him to one of a class. You, gentlemen, who by nationality, by heredity, or by the possession of natural gifts, are fitted to hold your respective places in the moving world, I take to witness that I am as sane as at least the majority of men who are in full possession of their liberties. And I am sure that you, Dr. Seward, humanitarian and medico-jurist as well as scientist, will deem it a moral duty to deal with me as one to be considered as under exceptional circumstances. ‘He made this last appeal with a courtly air of conviction which was not without its own charm.
他与他们每个人握手，依次说道：“戈达尔明勋爵，我有幸在温德姆附议你的父亲，我很遗憾地知道，由于你拥有这个头衔，他已经不复存在了。”他是一个受到所有认识他的人的爱戴和尊敬的人，据我所知，他年轻时是一种烧焦朗姆潘趣酒的发明者，在德比之夜受到了很多人的光顾。莫里斯先生，您应该为自己伟大的州感到自豪。它加入联邦是一个先例，可能会在以后产生深远的影响，届时极地和热带地区可能会与星条旗结盟。当门罗主义作为政治寓言真正占据一席之地时，条约的力量可能会成为扩大东欧的巨大引擎。任何人都会如何评价他见到范海辛的高兴呢？先生，我不会为放弃所有形式的常规前缀而道歉。当一个人通过发现大脑物质的持续进化而彻底改变了治疗方法时，传统的形式是不合适的，因为它们似乎将他限制在一个类别中。先生们，你们，无论是国籍、遗传还是天赋，都适合在这个移动的世界中占据各自的位置，我可以证明，我至少和当今世界上的大多数人一样理智。充分拥有他们的自由。我相信，苏厄德博士，一位人道主义者、医学法学家以及科学家，会认为在特殊情况下对待我是一种道义上的责任。 “他以一种彬彬有礼、充满信念的神情提出了最后的上诉，这并非没有魅力。

I think we were all staggered. For my own part, I was under the conviction, despite my knowledge of the man’s character and history, that his reason had been restored, and I felt under a strong impulse to tell him that I was satisfied as to his sanity, and would see about the necessary formalities for his release in the morning. I thought it better to wait, however, before making so grave a statement, for of old I knew the sudden changes to which this particular patient was liable. So I contented myself with making a general statement that he appeared to be improving very rapidly, that I would have a longer chat with him in the morning, and would then see what I could do in the direction of meeting his wishes.
我想我们都惊呆了。就我个人而言，尽管我了解这个人的性格和历史，但我坚信他的理智已经恢复，我有强烈的冲动告诉他我对他的理智感到满意，并且会看到关于他早上获释的必要手续。然而，我认为在做出如此严肃的声明之前最好先等待，因为我早就知道这个特殊的病人容易遭受突然的变化。所以我满足于做一个笼统的声明，他看起来进步很快，我早上会和他再聊一会儿，然后看看我能做些什么来满足他的愿望。

This did not at all satisfy him, for he said quickly, ‘But I fear, Dr. Seward, that you hardly apprehend my wish. I desire to go at once, here, now, this very hour, this very moment, if I may. Time presses, and in our implied agreement with the old scytheman it is of the essence of the contract. I am sure it is only necessary to put before so admirable a practitioner as Dr. Seward so simple, yet so momentous a wish, to ensure its fulfilment.’
这并没有让他满意，因为他很快说道：“但苏厄德博士，我担心你很难理解我的愿望。”如果可以的话，我希望立刻就去，就在此时此地。时间紧迫，我们与老镰刀人的默示协议是合同的核心内容。我相信，只需向像苏厄德博士这样令人敬佩的实践者提出一个如此简单却又如此重大的愿望，就能确保其实现。

He looked at me keenly, and seeing the negative in my face, turned to the others, and scrutinized them closely. Not meeting any sufficient response, he went on, ‘Is it possible that I have erred in my supposition?’
他敏锐地看着我，看到了我脸上的消极情绪，然后转向其他人，仔细地审视着他们。没有得到足够的回应，他继续说道：“难道我的猜测有误吗？”

‘You have,’ I said frankly, but at the same time, as I felt, brutally.
“你有，”我坦率地说，但同时，正如我所感受到的，残酷。

There was a considerable pause, and then he said slowly, ‘Then I suppose I must only shift my ground of request. Let me ask for this concession, boon, privilege, what you will. I am content to implore in such a case, not on personal grounds, but for the sake of others. I am not at liberty to give you the whole of my reasons, but you may, I assure you, take it from me that they are good ones, sound and unselfish, and spring from the highest sense of duty.
一阵相当长的停顿，然后他慢慢地说：“那么我想我只能改变我的请求理由了。”让我请求你的让步、恩惠、特权，无论你愿意什么。在这种情况下，我很乐意恳求，不是出于个人原因，而是为了他人。我不能随意向你提供我的全部理由，但我向你保证，你可以从我这里得到这些理由，这些理由是好的、合理的、无私的，并且源于最高的责任感。

‘Could you look, sir, into my heart, you would approve to the full the sentiments which animate me. Nay, more, you would count me amongst the best and truest of your friends.’
“先生，您能否看看我的内心，您会完全赞同那些激励我的情感。不，更重要的是，你会认为我是你最好、最真诚的朋友之一。

Again he looked at us all keenly. I had a growing conviction that this sudden change of his entire intellectual method was but yet another phase of his madness, and so determined to let him go on a little longer, knowing from experience that he would, like all lunatics, give himself away in the end. Van Helsing was gazing at him with a look of utmost intensity, his bushy eyebrows almost meeting with the fixed concentration of his look. He said to Renfield in a tone which did not surprise me at the time, but only when I thought of it afterwards, for it was as of one addressing an equal, ‘Can you not tell frankly your real reason for wishing to be free tonight? I will undertake that if you will satisfy even me, a stranger, without prejudice, and with the habit of keeping an open mind, Dr. Seward will give you, at his own risk and on his own responsibility, the privilege you seek.’
他再次敏锐地看着我们大家。我越来越相信，他整个智力方法的突然改变只是他疯狂的又一个阶段，因此决定让他再继续下去，因为从经验中知道，他会像所有疯子一样，在结束。范海辛用一种极其专注的眼神注视着他，浓密的眉毛几乎与他专注的眼神相交。他对雷菲尔德说，当时的语气并不让我感到惊讶，但后来我想起来，就像一个人对平等的人说的那样：“你能不能坦白地说出你希望今晚获得自由的真正原因吗？” ？我保证，如果你能让我这个陌生人满意，不带偏见，并保持开放的心态，苏厄德博士将自担风险和责任，给予你你所寻求的特权。

He shook his head sadly, and with a look of poignant regret on his face. The Professor went on, ‘Come, sir, bethink yourself. You claim the privilege of reason in the highest degree, since you seek to impress us with your complete reasonableness. You do this, whose sanity we have reason to doubt, since you are not yet released from medical treatment for this very defect. If you will not help us in our effort to choose the wisest course, how can we perform the duty which you yourself put upon us? Be wise, and help us, and if we can we shall aid you to achieve your wish.’
他悲痛地摇了摇头，脸上带着心酸的悔恨之色。教授继续说道：“来吧，先生，想想你自己吧。”你声称拥有最高程度的理性特权，因为你试图用你完全的理性给我们留下深刻的印象。你这样做，我们有理由怀疑你的理智，因为你还没有因为这个缺陷而摆脱治疗。如果您不帮助我们选择最明智的做法，我们如何履行您亲自赋予我们的职责呢？明智一点，帮助我们，如果可以的话，我们将帮助你实现你的愿望。

He still shook his head as he said, ‘Dr. Van Helsing, I have nothing to say. Your argument is complete, and if I were free to speak I should not hesitate a moment, but I am not my own master in the matter. I can only ask you to trust me. If I am refused, the responsibility does not rest with me.’
他仍然摇头说道：“博士。”范海辛，我无话可说。你的论点很完整，如果我可以自由发言，我应该毫不犹豫，但我在这件事上不是我自己的主人。我只能请求你相信我。如果我被拒绝，责任不在于我。”

I thought it was now time to end the scene, which was becoming too comically grave, so I went towards the door, simply saying, ‘Come, my friends, we have work to do. Goodnight.’
我想现在是时候结束这个场景了，因为场景变得太可笑了，所以我走向门口，简单地说：‘来吧，我的朋友们，我们有工作要做。晚安。'

As, however, I got near the door, a new change came over the patient. He moved towards me so quickly that for the moment I feared that he was about to make another homicidal attack. My fears, however, were groundless, for he held up his two hands imploringly, and made his petition in a moving manner. As he saw that the very excess of his emotion was militating against him, by restoring us more to our old relations, he became still more demonstrative. I glanced at Van Helsing, and saw my conviction reflected in his eyes, so I became a little more fixed in my manner, if not more stern, and motioned to him that his efforts were unavailing. I had previously seen something of the same constantly growing excitement in him when he had to make some request of which at the time he had thought much, such for instance, as when he wanted a cat, and I was prepared to see the collapse into the same sullen acquiescence on this occasion.
然而，当我快到门口时，病人身上出现了新的变化。他向我走来的速度如此之快，以至于我一时担心他会再次发动凶杀袭击。然而，我的担心是多余的，因为他恳求地举起了两只手，以一种动人的方式提出了他的请求。当他发现自己的过度情感正在对他产生不利影响时，他就变得更加外露。我看了范海辛一眼，看到他眼中反映出了我的信念，所以我的态度变得更加坚定，甚至更加严厉，并向他示意他的努力是徒劳的。我以前也曾在他身上看到过同样的情绪，当他不得不提出一些他想了很多的要求时，例如，当他想要一只猫时，我已经准备好看到他崩溃了。这次同样阴沉默许。

My expectation was not realized, for when he found that his appeal would not be successful, he got into quite a frantic condition. He threw himself on his knees, and held up his hands, wringing them in plaintive supplication, and poured forth a torrent of entreaty, with the tears rolling down his cheeks, and his whole face and form expressive of the deepest emotion.
我的期望并没有实现，因为当他发现自己的上诉不会成功时，他陷入了相当疯狂的状态。他跪倒在地，举起双手，苦苦哀求，倾诉着恳求，泪水顺着脸颊滚落，整张脸和整个身体都流露出最深切的情感。

‘Let me entreat you, Dr. Seward, oh, let me implore you, to let me out of this house at once. Send me away how you will and where you will, send keepers with me with whips and chains, let them take me in a strait waistcoat, manacled and leg-ironed, even to gaol, but let me go out of this. You don’t know what you do by keeping me here. I am speaking from the depths of my heart, of my very soul. You don’t know whom you wrong, or how, and I may not tell. Woe is me! I may not tell. By all you hold sacred, by all you hold dear, by your love that is lost, by your hope that lives, for the sake of the Almighty, take me out of this and save my soul from guilt! Can’t you hear me, man? Can’t you understand? Will you never learn? Don’t you know that I am sane and earnest now, that I am no lunatic in a mad fit, but a sane man fighting for his soul? Oh, hear me! Hear me! Let me go, let me go, let me go!’
“让我恳求你，苏厄德医生，哦，让我恳求你，让我立即离开这所房子。”你想怎么送我就怎么送我去哪里，派看守人带着鞭子和铁链跟我走，让他们把我穿着紧身背心，戴上手铐和脚镣，甚至关进监狱，但让我离开这里。你不知道把我留在这里做什么。我是从我的内心深处、我的灵魂里说出来的。你不知道你错了谁，也不知道你是怎么错的，我可能不会告诉你。祸哉是我！我可能不会说。以你所珍视的一切，以你所珍视的一切，以你失去的爱，以你活着的希望，为了全能的上帝，带我摆脱困境，拯救我的灵魂免于罪恶！你听不到我说话吗，伙计？你不明白吗？你永远不会学习吗？难道你不知道我现在神志清醒、认真，不是一个疯狂的疯子，而是一个为自己的灵魂而战的神智清醒的人吗？哦，听我说！听我说！放开我，放开我，放开我！”

I thought that the longer this went on the wilder he would get, and so would bring on a fit, so I took him by the hand and raised him up.
我想时间越长他就会越狂躁，会发作，所以我拉着他的手把他扶了起来。

‘Come,’ I said sternly, ‘no more of this, we have had quite enough already. Get to your bed and try to behave more discreetly.’
“来吧，”我严厉地说，“别再这样了，我们已经受够了。”到床上去，尽量表现得更加谨慎。”

He suddenly stopped and looked at me intently for several moments. Then, without a word, he rose and moving over, sat down on the side of the bed. The collapse had come, as on former occasions, just as I had expected.
他突然停了下来，专注地看了我好一会儿。然后，他一言不发，起身走过去，在床边坐下。正如我所预料的那样，崩溃来了，正如以前的情况一样。

When I was leaving the room, last of our party, he said to me in a quiet, well-bred voice, ‘You will, I trust, Dr. Seward, do me the justice to bear in mind, later on, that I did what I could to convince you tonight.’
当我作为我们一行人中的最后一个人离开房间时，他用一种安静、有教养的声音对我说：“我相信，苏厄德博士，你会公正地记住，稍后，我会这样做。”今晚我已尽力说服你。”

Chapter 19
第19章

JONATHAN HARKER’S JOURNAL
乔纳森·哈克的日记

1 October, 5 A.M.—I went with the party to the search with an easy mind, for I think I never saw Mina so absolutely strong and well. I am so glad that she consented to hold back and let us men do the work. Somehow, it was a dread to me that she was in this fearful business at all, but now that her work is done, and that it is due to her energy and brains and foresight that the whole story is put together in such a way that every point tells, she may well feel that her part is finished, and that she can henceforth leave the rest to us. We were, I think, all a little upset by the scene with Mr. Renfield. When we came away from his room we were silent till we got back to the study.
10 月 1 日，凌晨 5 点——我怀着轻松的心情和大家一起去寻找，因为我想我从来没有见过米娜如此坚强和健康。我很高兴她同意保留并让我们男人来做这项工作。不知何故，我对她从事这项可怕的工作感到害怕，但现在她的工作已经完成，并且由于她的精力、头脑和远见，整个故事以这样的方式组合在一起：每一点都表明，她很可能觉得她的部分已经完成，从此她可以把剩下的留给我们了。我想，我们都对雷菲尔德先生的那一幕感到有点不安。当我们离开他的房间时，我们一直保持沉默，直到回到书房。

Then Mr. Morris said to Dr. Seward, ‘Say, Jack, if that man wasn’t attempting a bluff, he is about the sanest lunatic I ever saw. I’m not sure, but I believe that he had some serious purpose, and if he had, it was pretty rough on him not to get a chance.’
然后莫里斯先生对苏厄德博士说：“杰克，如果那个人不是想虚张声势的话，他大概是我见过的最理智的疯子了。”我不确定，但我相信他有一些严肃的目的，如果他有的话，他如果没有机会就很难受了。

Lord Godalming and I were silent, but Dr. Van Helsing added, ‘Friend John, you know more lunatics than I do, and I’m glad of it, for I fear that if it had been to me to decide I would before that last hysterical outburst have given him free. But we live and learn, and in our present task we must take no chance, as my friend Quincey would say. All is best as they are.’
戈德尔明勋爵和我都沉默了，但范海辛博士补充道：“约翰朋友，你比我认识更多的疯子，我对此感到很高兴，因为我担心如果由我来决定，我会在那之前做出决定。”最后一次歇斯底里的爆发让他获得了自由。但我们生活和学习，在我们目前的任务中，我们不能冒险，正如我的朋友昆西所说。一切都是最好的。

Dr. Seward seemed to answer them both in a dreamy kind of way, ‘I don’t know but that I agree with you. If that man had been an ordinary lunatic I would have taken my chance of trusting him, but he seems so mixed up with the Count in an indexy kind of way that I am afraid of doing anything wrong by helping his fads. I can’t forget how he prayed with almost equal fervor for a cat, and then tried to tear my throat out with his teeth. Besides, he called the Count ‘lord and master’, and he may want to get out to help him in some diabolical way. That horrid thing has the wolves and the rats and his own kind to help him, so I suppose he isn’t above trying to use a respectable lunatic. He certainly did seem earnest, though. I only hope we have done what is best. These things, in conjunction with the wild work we have in hand, help to unnerve a man.’
苏厄德博士似乎以一种梦幻般的方式回答了他们，“我不知道，但我同意你的观点。”如果那个人是个普通的疯子，我就会冒险相信他，但他似乎以一种指数化的方式与伯爵混在一起，我担心帮助他的时尚会做错什么。我无法忘记他是如何以几乎同样的热情为一只猫祈祷，然后试图用牙齿撕开我的喉咙。此外，他称伯爵为“主宰和主人”，他可能想以某种邪恶的方式出去帮助他。那可怕的东西有狼、老鼠和他自己的同类来帮助他，所以我想他不会不屑于尝试使用一个可敬的疯子。不过，他看起来确实很认真。我只希望我们已经做了最好的事情。这些事情，再加上我们手头的疯狂工作，会让一个人感到不安。”

The Professor stepped over, and laying his hand on his shoulder, said in his grave, kindly way, ‘Friend John, have no fear. We are trying to do our duty in a very sad and terrible case, we can only do as we deem best. What else have we to hope for, except the pity of the good God?’
教授走过去，把手放在他的肩膀上，用严肃而友善的语气说道：“朋友约翰，别害怕。”我们正在努力在一个非常悲伤和可怕的情况下履行我们的职责，我们只能做我们认为最好的事情。除了仁慈的上帝的怜悯之外，我们还能指望什么呢？

Lord Godalming had slipped away for a few minutes, but now he returned. He held up a little silver whistle, as he remarked, ‘That old place may be full of rats, and if so, I’ve got an antidote on call.’
戈达明勋爵已经溜走了几分钟，但现在他又回来了。他举起一只银色的小哨子，说道：“那个老地方可能满是老鼠，如果是的话，我已经准备好了解药。”

Having passed the wall, we took our way to the house, taking care to keep in the shadows of the trees on the lawn when the moonlight shone out. When we got to the porch the Professor opened his bag and took out a lot of things, which he laid on the step, sorting them into four little groups, evidently one for each. Then he spoke.
穿过围墙后，我们向房子走去，当月光照射进来时，我们小心地躲在草坪上的树荫下。当我们到达门廊时，教授打开他的包，拿出很多东西，放在台阶上，将它们分成四小组，显然每组一个。然后他说话了。

‘My friends, we are going into a terrible danger, and we need arms of many kinds. Our enemy is not merely spiritual. Remember that he has the strength of twenty men, and that, though our necks or our windpipes are of the common kind, and therefore breakable or crushable, his are not amenable to mere strength. A stronger man, or a body of men more strong in all than him, can at certain times hold him, but they cannot hurt him as we can be hurt by him. We must, therefore, guard ourselves from his touch. Keep this near your heart.’ As he spoke he lifted a little silver crucifix and held it out to me, I being nearest to him, ‘put these flowers round your neck,’ here he handed to me a wreath of withered garlic blossoms, ‘for other enemies more mundane, this revolver and this knife, and for aid in all, these so small electric lamps, which you can fasten to your breast, and for all, and above all at the last, this, which we must not desecrate needless.’
“我的朋友们，我们正陷入可怕的危险，我们需要多种武器。我们的敌人不仅仅是精神上的。请记住，他有二十个人的力量，尽管我们的脖子或气管是普通的，因此容易折断或压碎，但他的力量却无法承受。一个更强大的人，或者一群比他更强大的人，在某些时候可以抓住他，但他们不能伤害他，就像我们可以被他伤害一样。因此，我们必须保护自己免受他的接触。把它放在你的心附近。”当他说话时，他举起了一个小银十字架，把它递给我，我离他最近，“把这些花放在你的脖子上，”他递给我一个枯萎的大蒜花的花环， “对于其他更平凡的敌人，这把左轮手枪和这把刀，对于所有的援助，这些如此小的电灯，你可以将其固定在你的胸前，对于所有人，最重要的是最后，这个，我们不能毫无必要的亵渎。

This was a portion of Sacred Wafer, which he put in an envelope and handed to me. Each of the others was similarly equipped.
这是圣饼的一部分，他把它装进信封递给我。其他人也都配备了类似的装备。

‘Now,’ he said, ‘friend John, where are the skeleton keys? If so that we can open the door, we need not break house by the window, as before at Miss Lucy’s.’
“现在，”他说，“朋友约翰，万能钥匙在哪里？如果这样我们就可以打开门，我们就不需要像以前在露西小姐家那样从窗户破门而入。

Dr. Seward tried one or two skeleton keys, his mechanical dexterity as a surgeon standing him in good stead. Presently he got one to suit, after a little play back and forward the bolt yielded, and with a rusty clang, shot back. We pressed on the door, the rusty hinges creaked, and it slowly opened. It was startlingly like the image conveyed to me in Dr. Seward’s diary of the opening of Miss Westenra’s tomb, I fancy that the same idea seemed to strike the others, for with one accord they shrank back. The Professor was the first to move forward, and stepped into the open door.
苏厄德医生尝试了一两把万能钥匙，他作为外科医生的机械灵活性对他很有帮助。不久，他找到了一个合适的，经过一点点的来回弹动后，螺栓屈服了，并发出生锈的叮当声，向后射击。我们按了门，生锈的铰链吱吱作响，门慢慢地打开了。令人吃惊的是，苏厄德博士的日记中向我传达的关于打开韦斯特拉小姐坟墓的画面，我想其他人似乎也有同样的想法，因为他们一致退缩了。教授率先向前，走进了敞开的门。

‘In manus tuas, Domine!’ he said, crossing himself as he passed over the threshold. We closed the door behind us, lest when we should have lit our lamps we should possibly attract attention from the road. The Professor carefully tried the lock, lest we might not be able to open it from within should we be in a hurry making our exit. Then we all lit our lamps and proceeded on our search.
“主啊，手心大人！”他跨过门槛时画着十字说道。我们关上了身后的门，以免在我们应该点灯的时候引起路上的注意。教授小心翼翼地试了试锁，免得我们急着出去，从里面打不开。然后我们都点起了灯，继续寻找。

The light from the tiny lamps fell in all sorts of odd forms, as the rays crossed each other, or the opacity of our bodies threw great shadows. I could not for my life get away from the feeling that there was someone else amongst us. I suppose it was the recollection, so powerfully brought home to me by the grim surroundings, of that terrible experience in Transylvania. I think the feeling was common to us all, for I noticed that the others kept looking over their shoulders at every sound and every new shadow, just as I felt myself doing.
当光线相互交叉时，小灯发出的光以各种奇怪的形式投射下来，或者我们身体的不透明投射出巨大的阴影。我一生都无法摆脱我们中间还有别人的感觉。我想，这就是特兰西瓦尼亚那段可​​怕经历的记忆，残酷的环境让我强烈地回想起那次经历。我想这种感觉对我们所有人来说都很常见，因为我注意到其他人一直在回头看每一个声音和每一个新的影子，就像我自己的感觉一样。

The whole place was thick with dust. The floor was seemingly inches deep, except where there were recent footsteps, in which on holding down my lamp I could see marks of hobnails where the dust was cracked. The walls were fluffy and heavy with dust, and in the corners were masses of spider’s webs, whereon the dust had gathered till they looked like old tattered rags as the weight had torn them partly down. On a table in the hall was a great bunch of keys, with a time-yellowed label on each. They had been used several times, for on the table were several similar rents in the blanket of dust, similar to that exposed when the Professor lifted them.
整个地方布满了厚厚的灰尘。地板似乎有几英寸深，除了最近有脚步声的地方，当我按住灯时，我可以看到灰尘破裂处的平头钉痕迹。墙壁毛茸茸的，积满了厚厚的灰尘，角落里结满了蜘蛛网，上面积满了灰尘，看上去就像破烂的破布，因为重量把它们部分撕掉了。大厅的桌子上放着一大串钥匙，每把钥匙上都贴有因时间而泛黄的标签。它们已经被使用过好几次了，因为桌子上的灰尘覆盖着几处类似的裂缝，与教授抬起它们时暴露出来的裂缝相似。

He turned to me and said, ‘You know this place, Jonathan. You have copied maps of it, and you know it at least more than we do. Which is the way to the chapel?’
他转向我说：‘你知道这个地方，乔纳森。你已经复制了它的地图，你至少比我们更了解它。去教堂的路是哪条？

I had an idea of its direction, though on my former visit I had not been able to get admission to it, so I led the way, and after a few wrong turnings found myself opposite a low, arched oaken door, ribbed with iron bands.
我知道它的方向，虽然在我上次访问时我没能进入它，所以我在前面带路，经过几次错误的转弯后，我发现自己对面是一扇低矮的拱形橡木门，上面有铁筋。 。

‘This is the spot,’ said the Professor as he turned his lamp on a small map of the house, copied from the file of my original correspondence regarding the purchase. With a little trouble we found the key on the bunch and opened the door. We were prepared for some unpleasantness, for as we were opening the door a faint, malodorous air seemed to exhale through the gaps, but none of us ever expected such an odour as we encountered. None of the others had met the Count at all at close quarters, and when I had seen him he was either in the fasting stage of his existence in his rooms or, when he was bloated with fresh blood, in a ruined building open to the air, but here the place was small and close, and the long disuse had made the air stagnant and foul. There was an earthy smell, as of some dry miasma, which came through the fouler air. But as to the odour itself, how shall I describe it? It was not alone that it was composed of all the ills of mortality and with the pungent, acrid smell of blood, but it seemed as though corruption had become itself corrupt. Faugh! It sickens me to think of it. Every breath exhaled by that monster seemed to have clung to the place and intensified its loathsomeness.
“就是这个地方，”教授一边说，一边把灯照在一张房子的小地图上，这张地图是从我关于购买的原始信件的档案中抄下来的。费了点功夫，我们在一堆钥匙上找到了钥匙，打开了门。我们做好了迎接一些不愉快的准备，因为当我们打开门时，一股微弱的恶臭空气似乎从缝隙中散发出来，但我们谁也没想到我们会遇到这样的气味。其他人都没有近距离见过伯爵，当我见到他时，他要么正处于他在房间里的禁食阶段，要么当他因新鲜血液而肿胀时，在一栋通向外面的废墟建筑里。空气好，但这里又小又近，长期无人使用，空气变得凝滞而恶臭。污浊的空气中弥漫着一股泥土的味道，就像某种干燥的瘴气。但至于气味本身，我该如何描述呢？它不仅是由所有死亡的弊病和刺鼻的血腥味组成的，而且似乎腐败本身也变得腐败了。呸！我一想到这个就感到恶心。那怪物呼出的每一口气息，都仿佛附着在了这里，更加的令人厌恶。

Under ordinary circumstances such a stench would have brought our enterprise to an end, but this was no ordinary case, and the high and terrible purpose in which we were involved gave us a strength which rose above merely physical considerations. After the involuntary shrinking consequent on the first nauseous whiff, we one and all set about our work as though that loathsome place were a garden of roses.
在一般情况下，这样的恶臭会让我们的事业结束，但这不是一个普通的情况，我们所参与的崇高而可怕的目的给了我们一种超越纯粹物质考虑的力量。在闻到第一股恶心的气味后，我们不由自主地缩了缩，然后我们就开始工作，仿佛那个令人厌恶的地方是一个玫瑰花园。

We made an accurate examination of the place, the Professor saying as we began, ‘The first thing is to see how many of the boxes are left, we must then examine every hole and corner and cranny and see if we cannot get some clue as to what has become of the rest.’
我们对这个地方进行了精确的检查，教授在我们开始时说道：“首先要看看还剩下多少个盒子，然后我们必须检查每一个洞、角落和缝隙，看看我们是否不能得到一些线索其余人的情况如何。

A glance was sufficient to show how many remained, for the great earth chests were bulky, and there was no mistaking them.
一眼就足以看出还剩下多少，因为大土箱很大，而且不会弄错。

There were only twenty-nine left out of the fifty! Once I got a fright, for, seeing Lord Godalming suddenly turn and look out of the vaulted door into the dark passage beyond, I looked too, and for an instant my heart stood still. Somewhere, looking out from the shadow, I seemed to see the high lights of the Count’s evil face, the ridge of the nose, the red eyes, the red lips, the awful pallor. It was only for a moment, for, as Lord Godalming said, ‘I thought I saw a face, but it was only the shadows,’ and resumed his inquiry, I turned my lamp in the direction, and stepped into the passage. There was no sign of anyone, and as there were no corners, no doors, no aperture of any kind, but only the solid walls of the passage, there could be no hiding place even for him. I took it that fear had helped imagination, and said nothing.
这五十人，只剩下二十九人了！有一次我吓了一跳，因为看到戈达尔明勋爵突然转身，从拱形门望向远处黑暗的通道，我也看了看，有一瞬间我的心停止了跳动。从阴影中的某个地方，我似乎看到了伯爵那张邪恶的脸，鼻梁，红色的眼睛，红色的嘴唇，可怕的苍白。这只是一瞬间，因为，正如戈达明勋爵所说，“我以为我看到了一张脸，但那只是阴影。”然后继续他的询问，我把灯转向那个方向，走进了通道。没有任何人影，而且没有角落，没有门，没有任何缝隙，只有坚固的通道墙壁，连他自己都没有藏身之所。我以为恐惧有助于想象力，所以什么也没说。

A few minutes later I saw Morris step suddenly back from a corner, which he was examining. We all followed his movements with our eyes, for undoubtedly some nervousness was growing on us, and we saw a whole mass of phosphorescence, which twinkled like stars. We all instinctively drew back. The whole place was becoming alive with rats.
几分钟后，我看到莫里斯突然从一个角落后退了一步，他正在检查那个角落。我们都目不转睛地注视着他的动作，毫无疑问，我们心里有些紧张，我们看到了一团磷光，像星星一样闪烁。我们都本能地往后退了一步。整个地方都充满了老鼠。

For a moment or two we stood appalled, all save Lord Godalming, who was seemingly prepared for such an emergency. Rushing over to the great iron-bound oaken door, which Dr. Seward had described from the outside, and which I had seen myself, he turned the key in the lock, drew the huge bolts, and swung the door open. Then, taking his little silver whistle from his pocket, he blew a low, shrill call. It was answered from behind Dr. Seward’s house by the yelping of dogs, and after about a minute three terriers came dashing round the corner of the house. Unconsciously we had all moved towards the door, and as we moved I noticed that the dust had been much disturbed. The boxes which had been taken out had been brought this way. But even in the minute that had elapsed the number of the rats had vastly increased. They seemed to swarm over the place all at once, till the lamplight, shining on their moving dark bodies and glittering, baleful eyes, made the place look like a bank of earth set with fireflies. The dogs dashed on, but at the threshold suddenly stopped and snarled, and then, simultaneously lifting their noses, began to howl in most lugubrious fashion. The rats were multiplying in thousands, and we moved out.
一两秒钟，我们震惊地站着，除了戈德尔明勋爵，他似乎已经为这种紧急情况做好了准备。他冲向那扇巨大的铁镶橡木门，苏厄德博士从外面描述过这扇门，我也亲眼见过这扇门，他转动钥匙插进锁，拉动巨大的门闩，然后把门打开了。然后，他从口袋里掏出银色的小哨子，吹了一声低沉而尖锐的叫声。苏厄德博士的房子后面传来狗叫声，大约一分钟后，三只猎犬从房子的角落里冲了过来。不知不觉中，我们都已经向门口移动了，当我们移动的时候，我发现灰尘已经被搅乱了很多。取出来的箱子就是这样拿来的。但即使过了这一分钟，老鼠的数量也大大增加了。它们似乎一下子蜂拥而至，直到灯光照在它们移动的黑色身体和闪烁着恶意的眼睛上，使这里看起来就像是一片布满萤火虫的土堤。狗们向前冲去，但在门口突然停了下来，咆哮起来，然后同时抬起鼻子，开始以最悲惨的方式嚎叫。老鼠成千上万地繁殖，我们就搬走了。

Lord Godalming lifted one of the dogs, and carrying him in, placed him on the floor. The instant his feet touched the ground he seemed to recover his courage, and rushed at his natural enemies. They fled before him so fast that before he had shaken the life out of a score, the other dogs, who had by now been lifted in the same manner, had but small prey ere the whole mass had vanished.
戈达尔明勋爵举起了其中一只狗，将他抱了进去，放在地板上。双脚一落地的瞬间，他似乎就恢复了勇气，向天敌冲去。它们在他面前逃得如此之快，以至于在他把二十条狗的生命摇掉之前，其他的狗已经以同样的方式被举了起来，但在整个群体消失之前，它们只是小猎物。

With their going it seemed as if some evil presence had departed, for the dogs frisked about and barked merrily as they made sudden darts at their prostrate foes, and turned them over and over and tossed them in the air with vicious shakes. We all seemed to find our spirits rise. Whether it was the purifying of the deadly atmosphere by the opening of the chapel door, or the relief which we experienced by finding ourselves in the open I know not, but most certainly the shadow of dread seemed to slip from us like a robe, and the occasion of our coming lost something of its grim significance, though we did not slacken a whit in our resolution. We closed the outer door and barred and locked it, and bringing the dogs with us, began our search of the house. We found nothing throughout except dust in extraordinary proportions, and all untouched save for my own footsteps when I had made my first visit. Never once did the dogs exhibit any symptom of uneasiness, and even when we returned to the chapel they frisked about as though they had been rabbit hunting in a summer wood.
随着它们的离去，似乎有某种邪恶的存在消失了，因为狗们欢快地狂吠着，突然向倒下的敌人猛冲过来，把它们翻来覆去，狠狠地摇晃着，把它们抛到空中。我们似乎都精神振奋了。我不知道是因为教堂门的打开净化了致命的气氛，还是因为我们发现自己处于空旷的环境中而感到轻松，但最肯定的是，恐惧的阴影似乎像长袍一样从我们身上消失了，尽管我们的决心丝毫没有放松，但我们的到来却失去了一些严峻的意义。我们关上外门，锁上门闩，带着狗，开始搜查房子。除了大量的灰尘外，我们什么也没发现，除了我第一次来时留下的脚印外，一切都没有受到影响。这些狗从来没有表现出任何不安的症状，甚至当我们回到教堂时，它们也活蹦乱跳，就像在夏天的树林里猎兔子一样。

The morning was quickening in the east when we emerged from the front. Dr. Van Helsing had taken the key of the hall door from the bunch, and locked the door in orthodox fashion, putting the key into his pocket when he had done.
当我们从前线出来时，东方的晨光正在加速。范海辛博士从人群中拿走了大厅门的钥匙，并以正统的方式锁上了门，锁好后将钥匙放进了口袋里。

‘So far,’ he said, ‘our night has been eminently successful. No harm has come to us such as I feared might be and yet we have ascertained how many boxes are missing. More than all do I rejoice that this, our first, and perhaps our most difficult and dangerous, step has been accomplished without the bringing thereinto our most sweet Madam Mina or troubling her waking or sleeping thoughts with sights and sounds and smells of horror which she might never forget. One lesson, too, we have learned, if it be allowable to argue a particulari, that the brute beasts which are to the Count’s command are yet themselves not amenable to his spiritual power, for look, these rats that would come to his call, just as from his castle top he summon the wolves to your going and to that poor mother’s cry, though they come to him, they run pell-mell from the so little dogs of my friend Arthur. We have other matters before us, other dangers, other fears, and that monster … He has not used his power over the brute world for the only or the last time tonight. So be it that he has gone elsewhere. Good! It has given us opportunity to cry ‘check’ in some ways in this chess game, which we play for the stake of human souls. And now let us go home. The dawn is close at hand, and we have reason to be content with our first night’s work. It may be ordained that we have many nights and days to follow, if full of peril, but we must go on, and from no danger shall we shrink.’
“到目前为止，”他说，“我们的夜晚非常成功。”我们并没有像我担心的那样受到伤害，但我们已经确定了有多少箱子丢失。我最高兴的是，我们的第一步，也许是我们最困难和危险的一步已经完成，没有把我们最可爱的米娜女士带入其中，也没有用她所看到的恐怖景象、声音和气味扰乱她清醒或睡着的思想。可能永远不会忘记。我们还学到了一个教训，如果允许争论一个特殊情况的话，那就是，听从伯爵指挥的野蛮野兽本身却并不服从他的精神力量，因为看，这些老鼠会听从他的召唤，就像他从他的城堡顶上召唤狼群来迎接你和那个可怜的母亲的呼喊一样，尽管它们来到了他身边，但它们却从我朋友亚瑟的那些小狗身边乱窜。我们面前还有其他的事情，其他的危险，其他的恐惧，还有那个怪物……他今晚并不是唯一一次或最后一次使用他的力量来统治这个残酷的世界。既然如此，他已经去了别的地方了。好的！它让我们有机会在这场以人类灵魂为赌注的国际象棋游戏中以某种方式喊出“检查”。现在让我们回家吧。黎明即将到来，我们有理由对第一晚的工作感到满意。也许注定我们将有许多个日日夜夜，如果充满危险，但我们必须继续前进，我们不会在危险面前退缩。

The house was silent when we got back, save for some poor creature who was screaming away in one of the distant wards, and a low, moaning sound from Renfield’s room. The poor wretch was doubtless torturing himself, after the manner of the insane, with needless thoughts of pain.
当我们回来时，房子里一片寂静，除了远处病房里某个可怜的生物正在尖叫，以及伦菲尔德的房间里传来低沉的呻吟声。毫无疑问，这个可怜的家伙正在以一种疯狂的方式，用不必要的痛苦思想来折磨自己。

I came tiptoe into our own room, and found Mina asleep, breathing so softly that I had to put my ear down to hear it. She looks paler than usual. I hope the meeting tonight has not upset her. I am truly thankful that she is to be left out of our future work, and even of our deliberations. It is too great a strain for a woman to bear. I did not think so at first, but I know better now. Therefore I am glad that it is settled. There may be things which would frighten her to hear, and yet to conceal them from her might be worse than to tell her if once she suspected that there was any concealment. Henceforth our work is to be a sealed book to her, till at least such time as we can tell her that all is finished, and the earth free from a monster of the nether world. I daresay it will be difficult to begin to keep silence after such confidence as ours, but I must be resolute, and tomorrow I shall keep dark over tonight’s doings, and shall refuse to speak of anything that has happened. I rest on the sofa, so as not to disturb her.
我蹑手蹑脚地走进我们自己的房间，发现米娜睡着了，呼吸声如此轻柔，我不得不把耳朵贴下来才能听到。她看起来比平常更苍白。我希望今晚的会议没有让她感到不安。我真的很庆幸她被排除在我们未来的工作甚至我们的审议之外。对于一个女人来说，这实在是太大的负担了。起初我并不这么认为，但现在我更清楚了。因此我很高兴事情已经解决了。也许有些事情听了会让她害怕，但一旦她怀疑有什么隐瞒，向她隐瞒这些事情可能比告诉她更糟糕。从今以后，我们的工作对她来说就是一本密封的书，直到至少我们可以告诉她一切都完成了，地球不再有来自阴间的怪物。我敢说，在我们如此信任之后，要开始保持沉默将是困难的，但我必须下定决心，明天我将对今晚的行为保密，并拒绝谈论发生的任何事情。我在沙发上休息，以免打扰她。

1 October, later.—I suppose it was natural that we should have all overslept ourselves, for the day was a busy one, and the night had no rest at all. Even Mina must have felt its exhaustion, for though I slept till the sun was high, I was awake before her, and had to call two or three times before she awoke. Indeed, she was so sound asleep that for a few seconds she did not recognize me, but looked at me with a sort of blank terror, as one looks who has been waked out of a bad dream. She complained a little of being tired, and I let her rest till later in the day. We now know of twenty-one boxes having been removed, and if it be that several were taken in any of these removals we may be able to trace them all. Such will, of course, immensely simplify our labor, and the sooner the matter is attended to the better. I shall look up Thomas Snelling today.
10 月 1 日，稍后。——我想我们都睡过了头是很自然的，因为白天很忙，晚上根本没有休息。就连米娜也一定感到了疲惫，因为虽然我睡到太阳升起，但我却比她先醒，不得不叫了两三声才让她醒过来。事实上，她睡得太熟了，有几秒钟她没有认出我，只是用一种茫然的恐惧看着我，就像一个从噩梦中醒来的人。她抱怨有点累，我让她休息到当天晚些时候。我们现在知道有二十一个盒子已被移走，如果其中有几个盒子被带走，我们也许能够追踪到它们。当然，这将极大地简化我们的工作，而且问题处理得越早越好。我今天要去找托马斯·斯内林。

DR. SEWARD’S DIARY
博士。苏厄德的日记

1 October.—It was towards noon when I was awakened by the Professor walking into my room. He was more jolly and cheerful than usual, and it is quite evident that last night’s work has helped to take some of the brooding weight off his mind.
10 月 1 日——快到中午的时候，我被走进我房间的教授吵醒了。他比平时更加​​快乐和开朗，很明显，昨晚的工作帮助他减轻了一些忧郁的负担。

After going over the adventure of the night he suddenly said, ‘Your patient interests me much. May it be that with you I visit him this morning? Or if that you are too occupy, I can go alone if it may be. It is a new experience to me to find a lunatic who talk philosophy, and reason so sound.’
在回顾了当晚的经历后，他突然说道：“我对你的病人很感兴趣。”今天早上我可以和你一起去拜访他吗？或者如果你太忙的话，我可以一个人去。找到一个谈论哲学、推理如此合理的疯子对我来说是一种新的体验。

I had some work to do which pressed, so I told him that if he would go alone I would be glad, as then I should not have to keep him waiting, so I called an attendant and gave him the necessary instructions. Before the Professor left the room I cautioned him against getting any false impression from my patient.
我有一些紧迫的工作要做，所以我告诉他，如果他愿意独自去我会很高兴，因为那样我就不必让他等待，所以我打电话给服务员并给了他必要的指示。在教授离开房间之前，我警告他不要从我的病人那里得到任何错误的印象。

‘But,’ he answered, ‘I want him to talk of himself and of his delusion as to consuming live things. He said to Madam Mina, as I see in your diary of yesterday, that he had once had such a belief. Why do you smile, friend John?’
“但是，”他回答道，“我希望他谈谈他自己以及他吃活物的妄想。”他对米娜女士说，正如我在你昨天的日记中看到的那样，他曾经有过这样的信念。你为什么微笑，朋友约翰？

‘Excuse me,’ I said, ‘but the answer is here.’ I laid my hand on the typewritten matter. ‘When our sane and learned lunatic made that very statement of how he used to consume life, his mouth was actually nauseous with the flies and spiders which he had eaten just before Mrs. Harker entered the room.’
“对不起，”我说，“但答案就在这里。”我把手放在打字稿上。 “当我们这个理智而博学的疯子说出他过去如何消耗生命时，他的嘴实际上因哈克夫人进入房间之前吃的苍蝇和蜘蛛而感到恶心。”

Van Helsing smiled in turn. ‘Good!’ he said. ‘Your memory is true, friend John. I should have remembered. And yet it is this very obliquity of thought and memory which makes mental disease such a fascinating study. Perhaps I may gain more knowledge out of the folly of this madman than I shall from the teaching of the most wise. Who knows?’
范海辛也笑了。 “好！”他说。 “你的记忆是真实的，约翰朋友。我应该记得的。然而，正是这种思维和记忆的倾斜使得精神疾病成为一项如此令人着迷的研究。也许我从这个疯子的愚蠢中获得的知识比从最聪明的人的教导中获得的知识还要多。谁知道？'

I went on with my work, and before long was through that in hand. It seemed that the time had been very short indeed, but there was Van Helsing back in the study.
我继续我的工作，不久之后就完成了手头的工作。看起来时间确实很短，但范海辛又回到了书房里。

‘Do I interrupt?’ he asked politely as he stood at the door.
“我要打扰一下吗？”他站在门口，礼貌地问道。

‘Not at all,’ I answered. ‘Come in. My work is finished, and I am free. I can go with you now, if you like.’
“一点也不，”我回答道。 “进来吧，我的工作完成了，我自由了。”如果你愿意的话，我现在可以和你一起去。

‘It is needless, I have seen him!’
“不用了，我已经见过他了！”

‘Well?’
'出色地？'

‘I fear that he does not appraise me at much. Our interview was short. When I entered his room he was sitting on a stool in the centre, with his elbows on his knees, and his face was the picture of sullen discontent. I spoke to him as cheerfully as I could, and with such a measure of respect as I could assume. He made no reply whatever. ‘Don’t you know me?’ I asked. His answer was not reassuring. ‘I know you well enough, you are the old fool Van Helsing. I wish you would take yourself and your idiotic brain theories somewhere else. Damn all thick-headed Dutchmen!’ Not a word more would he say, but sat in his implacable sullenness as indifferent to me as though I had not been in the room at all. Thus departed for this time my chance of much learning from this so clever lunatic, so I shall go, if I may, and cheer myself with a few happy words with that sweet soul Madam Mina. Friend John, it does rejoice me unspeakable that she is no more to be pained, no more to be worried with our terrible things. Though we shall much miss her help, it is better so.’
‘我担心他不太评价我。我们的采访很短。当我走进他的房间时，他坐在中间的凳子上，手肘撑在膝盖上，脸上露出阴沉不满的表情。我尽可能愉快地和他说话，并带着我所能想象到的尊重。他没有做出任何回应。 “你不认识我吗？”我问。他的回答并不令人放心。 “我很了解你，你就是范海辛这个老傻瓜。”我希望你能把你自己和你愚蠢的大脑理论带到其他地方。都是该死的笨蛋荷兰人！”他不再多说什么，只是闷闷不乐地坐在那儿，对我漠不关心，就好像我根本不在房间里一样。因此，这次我失去了向这个如此聪明的疯子学习的机会，因此，如果可以的话，我应该去，并与那位可爱的米娜女士说几句快乐的话，让自己高兴起来。朋友约翰，我确实感到难以言表的高兴，因为她不再为我们可怕的事情而感到痛苦，不再担心。虽然我们会非常想念她的帮助，但这样更好。

‘I agree with you with all my heart,’ I answered earnestly, for I did not want him to weaken in this matter. ‘Mrs. Harker is better out of it. Things are quite bad enough for us, all men of the world, and who have been in many tight places in our time, but it is no place for a woman, and if she had remained in touch with the affair, it would in time infallibly have wrecked her.’
“我完全同意你的观点。”我认真地回答，因为我不想让他在这件事上软弱下来。 '太太。哈克的情况更好。对于我们这个世界上所有的男人来说，事情已经够糟糕的了，在我们这个时代，我们已经处于许多紧张的境地，但这不是女人的容身之所，如果她与这件事保持联系，迟早会发生的。毫无疑问地毁了她。

So Van Helsing has gone to confer with Mrs. Harker and Harker, Quincey and Art are all out following up the clues as to the earth boxes. I shall finish my round of work and we shall meet tonight.
于是范海辛就去和哈克夫人商量了，哈克、昆西和阿特都出去追踪有关土箱的线索了。我将完成我的一轮工作，我们今晚见面。

MINA HARKER’S JOURNAL
米娜·哈克的日记

1 October.—It is strange to me to be kept in the dark as I am today, after Jonathan’s full confidence for so many years, to see him manifestly avoid certain matters, and those the most vital of all. This morning I slept late after the fatigues of yesterday, and though Jonathan was late too, he was the earlier. He spoke to me before he went out, never more sweetly or tenderly, but he never mentioned a word of what had happened in the visit to the Count’s house. And yet he must have known how terribly anxious I was. Poor dear fellow! I suppose it must have distressed him even more than it did me. They all agreed that it was best that I should not be drawn further into this awful work, and I acquiesced. But to think that he keeps anything from me! And now I am crying like a silly fool, when I know it comes from my husband’s great love and from the good, good wishes of those other strong men.
10 月 1 日——在乔纳森多年来对我完全信任之后，我却像今天这样被蒙在鼓里，看到他明显回避某些事情，而且是最重要的事情，这对我来说很奇怪。经过昨天的疲劳，今天早上我睡得很晚，虽然乔纳森也迟到了，但他是先到的。出门前他对我说话，语气从未如此甜蜜和温柔，但他只字不提拜访伯爵家时发生的事情。但他一定知道我有多焦虑。可怜的亲爱的朋友！我想他一定比我更痛苦。他们都认为最好不要让我进一步陷入这项可怕的工作，我默许了。但想想他竟然对我隐瞒了什么！现在我哭得像个傻瓜，因为我知道这是来自我丈夫伟大的爱和其他坚强男人的美好祝愿。

That has done me good. Well, some day Jonathan will tell me all. And lest it should ever be that he should think for a moment that I kept anything from him, I still keep my journal as usual. Then if he has feared of my trust I shall show it to him, with every thought of my heart put down for his dear eyes to read. I feel strangely sad and low-spirited today. I suppose it is the reaction from the terrible excitement.
这对我有好处。好吧，有一天乔纳森会告诉我一切。为了避免他一时认为我对他隐瞒了任何事情，我仍然像往常一样保留我的日记。然后，如果他害怕我的信任，我会把它展示给他，把我心里的每一个想法都写下来，让他亲爱的眼睛阅读。今天我感到奇怪的悲伤和情绪低落。我想这是可怕的兴奋的反应。

Last night I went to bed when the men had gone, simply because they told me to. I didn’t feel sleepy, and I did feel full of devouring anxiety. I kept thinking over everything that has been ever since Jonathan came to see me in London, and it all seems like a horrible tragedy, with fate pressing on relentlessly to some destined end. Everything that one does seems, no matter how right it me be, to bring on the very thing which is most to be deplored. If I hadn’t gone to Whitby, perhaps poor dear Lucy would be with us now. She hadn’t taken to visiting the churchyard till I came, and if she hadn’t come there in the day time with me she wouldn’t have walked in her sleep. And if she hadn’t gone there at night and asleep, that monster couldn’t have destroyed her as he did. Oh, why did I ever go to Whitby? There now, crying again! I wonder what has come over me today. I must hide it from Jonathan, for if he knew that I had been crying twice in one morning … I, who never cried on my own account, and whom he has never caused to shed a tear, the dear fellow would fret his heart out. I shall put a bold face on, and if I do feel weepy, he shall never see it. I suppose it is just one of the lessons that we poor women have to learn …
昨晚，当男人们走后，我就去睡觉了，只是因为他们让我这么做。我并没有感到困倦，反而感到充满了吞噬的焦虑。我一直在思考自从乔纳森来伦敦见我以来发生的一切，这一切似乎都是一场可怕的悲剧，命运无情地逼向某个注定的结局。一个人所做的每一件事，无论我做的多么正确，似乎都会带来最令人遗憾的事情。如果我没有去惠特比，也许可怜的亲爱的露西现在会和我们在一起。直到我来之前，她才开始去教堂墓地参观，如果她白天没有和我一起去那里，她就不会在睡梦中行走。如果她晚上没有去那里睡着了，那个怪物就不可能像他那样摧毁她。哦，我为什么要去惠特比？现在，又哭了！我想知道我今天发生了什么。我必须向乔纳森隐瞒这件事，因为如果他知道我在一个早上哭了两次……我这个从来没有为自己哭过的人，他也从来没有让我流过一滴眼泪，这个亲爱的家伙一定会心烦意乱的。 。我会勇敢地表现出来，如果我真的感到哭泣，他永远不会看到。我想这只是我们贫穷的妇女必须学习的教训之一......

I can’t quite remember how I fell asleep last night. I remember hearing the sudden barking of the dogs and a lot of queer sounds, like praying on a very tumultuous scale, from Mr. Renfield’s room, which is somewhere under this. And then there was silence over everything, silence so profound that it startled me, and I got up and looked out of the window. All was dark and silent, the black shadows thrown by the moonlight seeming full of a silent mystery of their own. Not a thing seemed to be stirring, but all to be grim and fixed as death or fate, so that a thin streak of white mist, that crept with almost imperceptible slowness across the grass towards the house, seemed to have a sentience and a vitality of its own. I think that the digression of my thoughts must have done me good, for when I got back to bed I found a lethargy creeping over me. I lay a while, but could not quite sleep, so I got out and looked out of the window again. The mist was spreading, and was now close up to the house, so that I could see it lying thick against the wall, as though it were stealing up to the windows. The poor man was more loud than ever, and though I could not distinguish a word he said, I could in some way recognize in his tones some passionate entreaty on his part. Then there was the sound of a struggle, and I knew that the attendants were dealing with him. I was so frightened that I crept into bed, and pulled the clothes over my head, putting my fingers in my ears. I was not then a bit sleepy, at least so I thought, but I must have fallen asleep, for except dreams, I do not remember anything until the morning, when Jonathan woke me. I think that it took me an effort and a little time to realize where I was, and that it was Jonathan who was bending over me. My dream was very peculiar, and was almost typical of the way that waking thoughts become merged in, or continued in, dreams.
我不太记得昨晚我是怎么睡着的。我记得从雷菲尔德先生的房间里听到了突然的狗叫声和许多奇怪的声音，就像在以非常混乱的规模祈祷一样，房间就在下面的某个地方。然后一切都寂静无声，寂静得让我大吃一惊，我站起来看着窗外。一切都是黑暗而寂静的，月光投下的黑色影子似乎充满了沉默的神秘。似乎没有什么东西在搅动，一切都像死亡或命运一样冷酷而固定，因此，一缕细细的白雾，以几乎难以察觉的缓慢速度穿过草地，向房子爬去，似乎有一种知觉和活力。它自己的。我想，我的思绪偏离一定对我有好处，因为当我回到床上时，我发现一种昏昏欲睡的感觉在我身上蔓延。我躺了一会儿，却怎么也睡不着，于是我又下了床，望向窗外。雾气正在蔓延，现在已经离房子很近了，所以我可以看到它厚厚地靠在墙上，好像它正在偷偷地爬到窗户上。这个可怜的人比以前更加大声，虽然我听不清他说的一个字，但我可以从他的语气中听出某种热情的恳求。随后传来一阵打斗的声音，我知道是侍从在对付他。我吓坏了，爬到床上，把衣服拉到头上，用手指捂住耳朵。那时我并没有一点困意，至少我是这么认为的，但我一定是睡着了，因为除了梦之外，我什么都不记得，直到早上乔纳森叫醒我。我想我花了一些努力和一点时间才意识到我在哪里，而且是乔纳森在向我俯身。 我的梦非常奇特，几乎是清醒时的想法融入梦中或继续梦中的典型方式。

I thought that I was asleep, and waiting for Jonathan to come back. I was very anxious about him, and I was powerless to act, my feet, and my hands, and my brain were weighted, so that nothing could proceed at the usual pace. And so I slept uneasily and thought. Then it began to dawn upon me that the air was heavy, and dank, and cold. I put back the clothes from my face, and found, to my surprise, that all was dim around. The gaslight which I had left lit for Jonathan, but turned down, came only like a tiny red spark through the fog, which had evidently grown thicker and poured into the room. Then it occurred to me that I had shut the window before I had come to bed. I would have got out to make certain on the point, but some leaden lethargy seemed to chain my limbs and even my will. I lay still and endured, that was all. I closed my eyes, but could still see through my eyelids. (It is wonderful what tricks our dreams play us, and how conveniently we can imagine.) The mist grew thicker and thicker and I could see now how it came in, for I could see it like smoke, or with the white energy of boiling water, pouring in, not through the window, but through the joinings of the door. It got thicker and thicker, till it seemed as if it became concentrated into a sort of pillar of cloud in the room, through the top of which I could see the light of the gas shining like a red eye. Things began to whirl through my brain just as the cloudy column was now whirling in the room, and through it all came the scriptural words ‘a pillar of cloud by day and of fire by night.’ Was it indeed such spiritual guidance that was coming to me in my sleep? But the pillar was composed of both the day and the night guiding, for the fire was in the red eye, which at the thought gat a new fascination for me, till, as I looked, the fire divided, and seemed to shine on me through the fog like two red eyes, such as Lucy told me of in her momentary mental wandering when, on the cliff, the dying sunlight struck the windows of St. Mary’s Church. Suddenly the horror burst upon me that it was thus that Jonathan had seen those awful women growing into reality through the whirling mist in the moonlight, and in my dream I must have fainted, for all became black darkness. The last conscious effort which imagination made was to show me a livid white face bending over me out of the mist.
我以为我已经睡着了，等待乔纳森回来。我很担心他，却无能为力，我的脚、我的手、我的大脑都沉重，以至于一切都无法按平常的节奏进行。于是我不安地入睡并思考。然后我开始意识到空气沉重、潮湿、寒冷。我把脸上的衣服放回去，惊讶地发现周围一片昏暗。我为乔纳森点燃的煤气灯，后来关掉了，只像雾气中的微小红色火花一样，雾气显然变得更浓了，涌进了房间。然后我突然想到我在睡觉前已经关上了窗户。我本想出去确认一下这一点，但某种沉重的昏睡似乎束缚了我的四肢，甚至我的意志。我静静地躺着，忍受着，仅此而已。我闭上眼睛，但仍能透过眼皮看到东西。 （我们的梦给我们带来了什么样的诡计，我们可以多么方便地想象，这真是太棒了。） 雾越来越浓，我现在可以看到它是如何进来的，因为我可以看到它像烟雾一样，或者带着沸腾的白色能量水，不是从窗户涌进来，而是从门缝涌进来。它变得越来越厚，直到它似乎在房间里浓缩成一根云柱，透过云柱的顶部，我可以看到气体的光芒像一只红色的眼睛一样闪烁。事情开始在我的脑海中旋转，就像云柱在房间里旋转一样，从这一切中传来经文“白天是云柱，晚上是火柱。”真的是这样的精神指导即将来临吗？在我睡梦中对我？ 但这根柱子是由白天和黑夜引导组成的，因为火在红色的眼睛里，一想到它就给我带来了新的迷恋，直到，当我看着时，火分开了，似乎照在我身上透过雾气，就像两只红色的眼睛，就像露西告诉我的那样，当她在悬崖上，夕阳西下时，她短暂的精神漫游，照在圣玛丽教堂的窗户上。突然，我感到恐惧，乔纳森就是这样看到那些可怕的女人在月光下旋转的雾气中成长为现实的，在我的梦中我一定昏倒了，因为一切都变成了黑暗。想象的最后一个有意识的努力是向我展示一张青白的脸从雾气中俯身在我身上。

I must be careful of such dreams, for they would unseat one’s reason if there were too much of them. I would get Dr. Van Helsing or Dr. Seward to prescribe something for me which would make me sleep, only that I fear to alarm them. Such a dream at the present time would become woven into their fears for me. Tonight I shall strive hard to sleep naturally. If I do not, I shall tomorrow night get them to give me a dose of chloral, that cannot hurt me for once, and it will give me a good night’s sleep. Last night tired me more than if I had not slept at all.
我必须小心这样的梦，因为梦太多就会失去理智。我会让范海辛医生或苏厄德医生给我开一些能让我入睡的药，只是我害怕惊动他们。如今，这样的梦想将融入他们对我的恐惧之中。今晚我要努力自然入睡。如果我不这样做，我明天晚上会让他们给我一剂三氯乙醛，这一次不会伤害我，而且会让我睡个好觉。昨晚我比没睡还要累。

2 October 10 P.M.—Last night I slept, but did not dream. I must have slept soundly, for I was not waked by Jonathan coming to bed, but the sleep has not refreshed me, for today I feel terribly weak and spiritless. I spent all yesterday trying to read, or lying down dozing. In the afternoon, Mr. Renfield asked if he might see me. Poor man, he was very gentle, and when I came away he kissed my hand and bade God bless me. Some way it affected me much. I am crying when I think of him. This is a new weakness, of which I must be careful. Jonathan would be miserable if he knew I had been crying. He and the others were out till dinner time, and they all came in tired. I did what I could to brighten them up, and I suppose that the effort did me good, for I forgot how tired I was. After dinner they sent me to bed, and all went off to smoke together, as they said, but I knew that they wanted to tell each other of what had occurred to each during the day. I could see from Jonathan’s manner that he had something important to communicate. I was not so sleepy as I should have been, so before they went I asked Dr. Seward to give me a little opiate of some kind, as I had not slept well the night before. He very kindly made me up a sleeping draught, which he gave to me, telling me that it would do me no harm, as it was very mild … I have taken it, and am waiting for sleep, which still keeps aloof. I hope I have not done wrong, for as sleep begins to flirt with me, a new fear comes, that I may have been foolish in thus depriving myself of the power of waking. I might want it. Here comes sleep. Goodnight.
10 月 2 日晚上 10 点——昨晚我睡了，但没有做梦。我一定睡得很熟，因为乔纳森上床睡觉并没有吵醒我，但睡眠并没有让我精神焕发，因为今天我感到非常虚弱，没有精神。昨天我一整天都在努力读书，或者躺着打瞌睡。下午，雷菲尔德先生问他是否可以见我。可怜的人，他非常温柔，当我离开时，他亲吻了我的手，并祈求上帝保佑我。某种程度上它对我影响很大。当我想到他时我就哭了。这是一个新的弱点，我必须小心。如果乔纳森知道我一直在哭，他会很难过的。他和其他人一直出去到晚饭时间，才带着疲惫的心情回来。我尽我所能让他们开心起来，我想这对我有好处，因为我忘记了自己有多累。晚饭后，他们送我上床睡觉，然后大家一起去抽烟，正如他们所说，但我知道他们想互相讲述白天发生的事情。从乔纳森的态度中我可以看出他有重要的事情要传达。我没有应有的困倦，所以在他们走之前，我请苏厄德医生给我一点鸦片之类的药物，因为我前一天晚上睡得不好。他非常友善地给我配了一片安眠药，递给我，并告诉我这不会对我造成伤害，因为它非常温和……我已经服用了它，正在等待睡眠，但它仍然保持着冷漠。我希望我没有做错，因为当睡眠开始向我调情时，一种新的恐惧出现了，我可能愚蠢地剥夺了自己醒来的能力。我可能想要它。睡眠来了。晚安。

Chapter 20
第20章

JONATHAN HARKER’S JOURNAL
乔纳森·哈克的日记

1 October, evening.—I found Thomas Snelling in his house at Bethnal Green, but unhappily he was not in a condition to remember anything. The very prospect of beer which my expected coming had opened to him had proved too much, and he had begun too early on his expected debauch. I learned, however, from his wife, who seemed a decent, poor soul, that he was only the assistant of Smollet, who of the two mates was the responsible person. So off I drove to Walworth, and found Mr. Joseph Smollet at home and in his shirtsleeves, taking a late tea out of a saucer. He is a decent, intelligent fellow, distinctly a good, reliable type of workman, and with a headpiece of his own. He remembered all about the incident of the boxes, and from a wonderful dog-eared notebook, which he produced from some mysterious receptacle about the seat of his trousers, and which had hieroglyphical entries in thick, half-obliterated pencil, he gave me the destinations of the boxes. There were, he said, six in the cartload which he took from Carfax and left at 197 Chicksand Street, Mile End New Town, and another six which he deposited at Jamaica Lane, Bermondsey. If then the Count meant to scatter these ghastly refuges of his over London, these places were chosen as the first of delivery, so that later he might distribute more fully. The systematic manner in which this was done made me think that he could not mean to confine himself to two sides of London. He was now fixed on the far east on the northern shore, on the east of the southern shore, and on the south. The north and west were surely never meant to be left out of his diabolical scheme, let alone the City itself and the very heart of fashionable London in the south-west and west. I went back to Smollet, and asked him if he could tell us if any other boxes had been taken from Carfax.
10 月 1 日晚上。——我在托马斯·斯内林位于贝斯纳尔格林的家里找到了他，但不幸的是，他已经不记得任何事情了。事实证明，我的到来给他带来了啤酒的前景，这对他来说太过分了，而且他过早地开始了他预期的放荡。然而，我从他的妻子那里得知，他只是斯莫莱特的助手，而他的妻子似乎是一个正派而可怜的人，而斯莫莱特是两个伙伴中的负责人。于是我开车去了沃尔沃斯，发现约瑟夫·斯莫莱特先生在家中穿着衬衫，从茶碟里倒了一杯晚茶。他是一个正派、聪明的小伙子，显然是一个优秀、可靠的工人，而且有自己的帽子。他记得所有关于盒子的事情，并从一本精美的折角笔记本中，他从裤子后面的某个神秘容器中取出了这本笔记本，上面用厚厚的、半湮没的铅笔写下了象形文字，他给了我箱子的目的地。他说，他从 Carfax 拿走一车车里的 6 件，然后留在 Mile End 新城 Chicksand 街 197 号，另外 6 件他存放在 Bermondsey 的牙买加巷。如果伯爵打算将他的这些可怕的避难所分散在伦敦各地，那么这些地方就会被选为第一个交付的地方，以便以后他可以更充分地分配。这样做的系统方式让我觉得他不可能把自己限制在伦敦的两侧。他现在固定在北岸的远东，南岸的东边，还有南岸。北部和西部肯定不会被排除在他的邪恶计划之外，更不用说伦敦金融城本身以及伦敦西南部和西部的时尚中心了。 我回到斯莫莱特，问他是否可以告诉我们是否还有其他盒子从卡法克斯被拿走。

He replied, ‘Well guv’nor, you’ve treated me very ‘an’some’, I had given him half a sovereign, ‘an I’ll tell yer all I know. I heard a man by the name of Bloxam say four nights ago in the ‘Are an’ ‘Ounds, in Pincher’s Alley, as ‘ow he an’ his mate ‘ad ‘ad a rare dusty job in a old ‘ouse at Purfleet. There ain’t a many such jobs as this ‘ere, an’ I’m thinkin’ that maybe Sam Bloxam could tell ye summut.’
他回答说：“好吧，先生，您对我非常‘友善’，我给了他半个主权，‘我会告诉您我所知道的一切。四天前的晚上，我听到一个名叫布洛萨姆的男人在平彻巷的“阿雷恩”里说，“他和他的伴侣在珀弗利特的一间老房子里做了一份罕见的尘土飞扬的工作。”像这样的工作并不多，我想也许 Sam Bloxam 可以告诉你们答案。

I asked if he could tell me where to find him. I told him that if he could get me the address it would be worth another half sovereign to him. So he gulped down the rest of his tea and stood up, saying that he was going to begin the search then and there.
我问他是否可以告诉我在哪里可以找到他。我告诉他，如果他能给我地址，那对他来说就值另外半个主权了。于是他喝完了剩下的茶，站起身来，说他要立即开始搜寻。

At the door he stopped, and said, ‘Look ‘ere, guv’nor, there ain’t no sense in me a keepin’ you ‘ere. I may find Sam soon, or I mayn’t, but anyhow he ain’t like to be in a way to tell ye much tonight. Sam is a rare one when he starts on the booze. If you can give me a envelope with a stamp on it, and put yer address on it, I’ll find out where Sam is to be found and post it ye tonight. But ye’d better be up arter ‘im soon in the mornin’, never mind the booze the night afore.’
在门口，他停了下来，说道：“听着，先生，我把你留在这里是没有意义的。”我可能很快就能找到萨姆，也可能找不到，但无论如何，他今晚不想告诉你们太多事情。萨姆是个罕见的开始酗酒的人。如果你能给我一个贴有邮票的信封，并写上你的地址，我会找出在哪里可以找到萨姆，然后今晚寄给你。但你们最好早上就起床，别介意前一天晚上喝的酒。”

This was all practical, so one of the children went off with a penny to buy an envelope and a sheet of paper, and to keep the change. When she came back, I addressed the envelope and stamped it, and when Smollet had again faithfully promised to post the address when found, I took my way to home. We’re on the track anyhow. I am tired tonight, and I want to sleep. Mina is fast asleep, and looks a little too pale. Her eyes look as though she had been crying. Poor dear, I’ve no doubt it frets her to be kept in the dark, and it may make her doubly anxious about me and the others. But it is best as it is. It is better to be disappointed and worried in such a way now than to have her nerve broken. The doctors were quite right to insist on her being kept out of this dreadful business. I must be firm, for on me this particular burden of silence must rest. I shall not ever enter on the subject with her under any circumstances. Indeed, It may not be a hard task, after all, for she herself has become reticent on the subject, and has not spoken of the Count or his doings ever since we told her of our decision.
这都是实用的，所以其中一个孩子拿着一分钱去买了一个信封和一张纸，并保留了零钱。当她回来时，我在信封上写了地址并贴了邮票，当斯莫莱特再次忠实地承诺一旦找到地址就会寄出地址时，我就回家了。无论如何，我们都在正轨上。今晚我很累，我想睡觉。米娜睡得很熟，看上去有点太苍白了。她的眼睛看起来好像刚刚哭过。可怜的亲爱的，毫无疑问，被蒙在鼓里会让她感到烦恼，而且这可能会让她对我和其他人加倍焦虑。但最好是这样。现在就这样失望和担心，总比让她神经崩溃要好。医生坚持不让她参与这可怕的事情是完全正确的。我必须坚定，因为这种沉默的特殊负担必须落在我身上。在任何情况下我都不会和她讨论这个话题。事实上，这也许不是一项艰巨的任务，毕竟，因为她自己在这个问题上变得沉默寡言，自从我们告诉她我们的决定以来，她就没有谈论过伯爵或他的所作所为。

2 October, evening—A long and trying and exciting day. By the first post I got my directed envelope with a dirty scrap of paper enclosed, on which was written with a carpenter’s pencil in a sprawling hand, ‘Sam Bloxam, Korkrans, 4 Poters Cort, Bartel Street, Walworth. Arsk for the depite.’
10 月 2 日晚上——漫长、艰难而又令人兴奋的一天。在第一篇文章中，我收到了我的定向信封，里面附有一张肮脏的纸片，上面用木匠的铅笔用粗大的手写着：“Sam Bloxam，Korkrans，4 Poters Cort，Bartel Street，Walworth。”尽管如此，还是要问一下。

I got the letter in bed, and rose without waking Mina. She looked heavy and sleepy and pale, and far from well. I determined not to wake her, but that when I should return from this new search, I would arrange for her going back to Exeter. I think she would be happier in our own home, with her daily tasks to interest her, than in being here amongst us and in ignorance. I only saw Dr. Seward for a moment, and told him where I was off to, promising to come back and tell the rest so soon as I should have found out anything. I drove to Walworth and found, with some difficulty, Potter’s Court. Mr. Smollet’s spelling misled me, as I asked for Poter’s Court instead of Potter’s Court. However, when I had found the court, I had no difficulty in discovering Corcoran’s lodging house.
我在床上收到了信，然后起身，没有吵醒米娜。她看起来很沉重，昏昏欲睡，脸色苍白，而且很不舒服。我决定不叫醒她，但当我从这次新的搜索中回来时，我会安排她回到埃克塞特。我认为她在我们自己的家里会更快乐，每天的任务都能让她感兴趣，而不是在我们中间一无所知。我只见到苏厄德医生一会儿，就告诉他我要去哪里，并承诺一旦我发现任何情况，我会尽快回来告诉其他人。我驱车前往沃尔沃思，费了一番周折才找到了波特庭院。斯莫莱特先生的拼写误导了我，因为我问的是Poter’s Court而不是Potter’s Court。然而，当我找到法庭时，我毫不费力地找到了科克伦的宿舍。

When I asked the man who came to the door for the ‘depite,’ he shook his head, and said, ‘I dunno ‘im. There ain’t no such a person ‘ere. I never ‘eard of ‘im in all my bloomin’ days. Don’t believe there ain’t nobody of that kind livin’ ‘ere or anywheres.’
当我向门口的那个人询问“尽管”时，他摇摇头说：“我不知道。”世上没有这样的人。在我所有的花季里，我从来没有听过他。不要相信没有人生活在“这里或任何地方”。

I took out Smollet’s letter, and as I read it it seemed to me that the lesson of the spelling of the name of the court might guide me. ‘What are you?’ I asked.
我拿出斯莫莱特的信，当我读到它时，我觉得拼写法院名称的教训可能会指导我。 “你是什么？”我问。

‘I’m the depity,’ he answered.
“我就是恶魔，”他回答道。

I saw at once that I was on the right track. Phonetic spelling had again misled me. A half crown tip put the deputy’s knowledge at my disposal, and I learned that Mr. Bloxam, who had slept off the remains of his beer on the previous night at Corcoran’s, had left for his work at Poplar at five o’clock that morning. He could not tell me where the place of work was situated, but he had a vague idea that it was some kind of a ‘new-fangled ware’us,’ and with this slender clue I had to start for Poplar. It was twelve o’clock before I got any satisfactory hint of such a building, and this I got at a coffee shop, where some workmen were having their dinner. One of them suggested that there was being erected at Cross Angel Street a new ‘cold storage’ building, and as this suited the condition of a ‘new-fangled ware’us,’ I at once drove to it. An interview with a surly gatekeeper and a surlier foreman, both of whom were appeased with the coin of the realm, put me on the track of Bloxam. He was sent for on my suggestion that I was willing to pay his days wages to his foreman for the privilege of asking him a few questions on a private matter. He was a smart enough fellow, though rough of speech and bearing. When I had promised to pay for his information and given him an earnest, he told me that he had made two journeys between Carfax and a house in Piccadilly, and had taken from this house to the latter nine great boxes, ‘main heavy ones,’ with a horse and cart hired by him for this purpose.
我立刻发现我走在正确的道路上。拼音拼写再次误导了我。半个克朗的小费让副官的知识为我所用，我得知布洛克萨姆先生前一天晚上在科科伦酒吧喝完剩下的啤酒就睡着了，当天早上五点钟就出发去波普勒工作了。他无法告诉我工作地点在哪里，但他有一个模糊的想法，那就是那是某种“新奇的商品”，有了这条微弱的线索，我不得不向白杨出发。直到十二点钟，我才得到关于这样一座建筑的任何令人满意的线索，这是我在一家咖啡店得到的，一些工人正在那里吃晚饭。其中一人提出，十字天使街正在修建一座新的“冷库”建筑，由于这适合“新奇物品”的条件，我立即开车前往。采访了一位脾气暴躁的看门人和一位脾气暴躁的工头，他们都对王国的硬币感到满意，这让我找到了 Bloxam 的踪迹。我建议我愿意向他的工头支付他的日薪，以换取就私人问题问他一些问题的特权，因此我派人去请他。他是一个足够聪明的人，尽管言语和举止粗鲁。当我答应为他的信息付费并给他一份诚意时，他告诉我，他在卡法克斯和皮卡迪利的一所房子之间进行了两次旅行，并从这所房子搬到了后九个大箱子，“主要是重型箱子， ’他为此目的雇了一辆马车。

I asked him if he could tell me the number of the house in Piccadilly, to which he replied, ‘Well, guv’nor, I forgits the number, but it was only a few door from a big white church, or somethink of the kind, not long built. It was a dusty old ‘ouse, too, though nothin’ to the dustiness of the ‘ouse we tooked the bloomin’ boxes from.’
我问他是否可以告诉我皮卡迪利大街那栋房子的门牌号，他回答说：“好吧，先生，我忘记了门牌号，但它离一座白色的大教堂只有几扇门，或者想像一下善良，建的时间不长。这也是一座布满灰尘的老房子，尽管与“我们拿走盛开的盒子的房子”的布满灰尘相比并不算什么。

‘How did you get in if both houses were empty?’
“如果两栋房子都空了，你怎么进去？”

‘There was the old party what engaged me a waitin’ in the ‘ouse at Purfleet. He ‘elped me to lift the boxes and put them in the dray. Curse me, but he was the strongest chap I ever struck, an’ him a old feller, with a white moustache, one that thin you would think he couldn’t throw a shadder.’
“有一个老聚会让我在珀弗利特的房子里等待。他帮我把箱子搬起来，放进马车里。诅咒我吧，但他是我打过的最强壮的家伙，而且他是个老家伙，留着白色的小胡子，你会认为他不能投掷任何东西。

How this phrase thrilled through me!
这句话让我多么激动啊！

‘Why, ‘e took up ‘is end o’ the boxes like they was pounds of tea, and me a puffin’ an’ a blowin’ afore I could upend mine anyhow, an’ I’m no chicken, neither.’
“为什么，‘他拿起了盒子，就像它们是几磅茶叶一样，而我在无论如何都无法翻转我的之前，就变成了海雀和吹气’，而且‘我也不是胆小鬼。’”

‘How did you get into the house in Piccadilly?’ I asked.
“你是怎么进入皮卡迪利大街的房子的？”我问。

‘He was there too. He must ‘a started off and got there afore me, for when I rung of the bell he kem an’ opened the door ‘isself an’ ‘elped me carry the boxes into the ‘all.’
‘他也在那儿。他一定是“在我之前出发并到达那里的”，因为当我按响门铃时，他“自己”打开了门，“帮我把箱子搬进了‘所有人’”。

‘The whole nine?’ I asked.
“全部九个？”我问。

‘Yus, there was five in the first load an’ four in the second. It was main dry work, an’ I don’t so well remember ‘ow I got ‘ome.’
“是的，第一批有五个，第二批有四个。”这是主要的干活，我不太记得“我是怎么得到‘ome’的。”

I interrupted him, ‘Were the boxes left in the hall?’
我打断他的话，“箱子留在大厅里了吗？”

‘Yus, it was a big ‘all, an’ there was nothin’ else in it.’
“是的，这是一个很大的‘全部’，里面没有别的东西了。”

I made one more attempt to further matters. ‘You didn’t have any key?’
我再次尝试进一步解决问题。 “你没有钥匙吗？”

‘Never used no key nor nothink. The old gent, he opened the door ‘isself an’ shut it again when I druv off. I don’t remember the last time, but that was the beer.’
“从来没有用过钥匙，也没有想过。这位老绅士，他自己打开了门，当我开车离开时，他又把门关上了。我不记得上次是什么时候了，但那是啤酒。”

‘And you can’t remember the number of the house?’
“你不记得房子的号码了吗？”

‘No, sir. But ye needn’t have no difficulty about that. It’s a ‘igh ‘un with a stone front with a bow on it, an’ ‘igh steps up to the door. I know them steps, ‘avin’ ‘ad to carry the boxes up with three loafers what come round to earn a copper. The old gent give them shillin’s, an’ they seein’ they got so much, they wanted more. But ‘e took one of them by the shoulder and was like to throw ‘im down the steps, till the lot of them went away cussin’.’
'不，先生。但对此你不必有任何困难。这是一个“哎呀”，前面有一个石头，上面有一个蝴蝶结，“哎呀”走到门口。我知道他们的脚步声，‘avin’‘广告，用三只懒汉鞋把箱子搬上来，赚一个铜钱。老绅士给了他们先令，他们看到自己得到了这么多，就想要更多。但“他抓住了其中一个人的肩膀，想把他扔下台阶，直到他们大骂一顿地走开”。

I thought that with this description I could find the house, so having paid my friend for his information, I started off for Piccadilly. I had gained a new painful experience. The Count could, it was evident, handle the earth boxes himself. If so, time was precious, for now that he had achieved a certain amount of distribution, he could, by choosing his own time, complete the task unobserved. At Piccadilly Circus I discharged my cab, and walked westward. Beyond the Junior Constitutional I came across the house described and was satisfied that this was the next of the lairs arranged by Dracula. The house looked as though it had been long untenanted. The windows were encrusted with dust, and the shutters were up. All the framework was black with time, and from the iron the paint had mostly scaled away. It was evident that up to lately there had been a large notice board in front of the balcony. It had, however, been roughly torn away, the uprights which had supported it still remaining. Behind the rails of the balcony I saw there were some loose boards, whose raw edges looked white. I would have given a good deal to have been able to see the notice board intact, as it would, perhaps, have given some clue to the ownership of the house. I remembered my experience of the investigation and purchase of Carfax, and I could not but feel that I could find the former owner there might be some means discovered of gaining access to the house.
我认为通过这个描述我可以找到那所房子，所以付钱给我的朋友索要他的信息后，我出发前往皮卡迪利。我获得了新的痛苦经历。显然，伯爵可以自己处理土箱。如果是的话，时间就很宝贵了，现在他已经获得了一定的分配，他可以选择自己的时间，在无人察觉的情况下完成任务。在皮卡迪利广场，我下了出租车，向西走。在初级宪政大楼之外，我看到了所描述的房子，并且很满意这是德古拉安排的下一个巢穴。这座房子看起来好像已经很久无人居住了。窗户上积满了灰尘，百叶窗都开着。随着时间的推移，所有的框架都变黑了，铁上的油漆大部分都剥落了。很明显，直到最近，阳台前还挂着一块巨大的告示牌。然而，它已被粗暴地撕掉，支撑它的立柱仍然存在。我看到阳台栏杆后面有一些松动的木板，其毛边看起来是白色的。我愿意付出很大的代价才能看到布告栏完好无损，因为它也许可以提供一些关于房子所有权的线索。我想起了我调查和购买Carfax的经历，我不禁觉得我可以找到前房主，也许能发现一些进入房子的手段。

There was at present nothing to be learned from the Piccadilly side, and nothing could be done, so I went around to the back to see if anything could be gathered from this quarter. The mews were active, the Piccadilly houses being mostly in occupation. I asked one or two of the grooms and helpers whom I saw around if they could tell me anything about the empty house. One of them said that he heard it had lately been taken, but he couldn’t say from whom. He told me, however, that up to very lately there had been a notice board of ‘For Sale’ up, and that perhaps Mitchell, Sons, & Candy the house agents could tell me something, as he thought he remembered seeing the name of that firm on the board. I did not wish to seem too eager, or to let my informant know or guess too much, so thanking him in the usual manner, I strolled away. It was now growing dusk, and the autumn night was closing in, so I did not lose any time. Having learned the address of Mitchell, Sons, & Candy from a directory at the Berkeley, I was soon at their office in Sackville Street.
目前从皮卡迪利那边还没有什么可得知的，也无能为力，所以我绕到后面去看看是否能从这一带收集到什么东西。马厩很活跃，皮卡迪利大街的房屋大部分都被占用。我问周围的一两个马夫和帮手，他们是否可以告诉我有关空房子的任何事情。其中一人说，他听说这封信最近被偷走了，但他不能说是谁偷的。然而，他告诉我，直到最近，一直有一个“待售”的布告栏，也许房屋经纪人米切尔、儿子和坎迪可以告诉我一些事情，因为他认为他记得看到过这个名字。董事会上的那家公司。我不想显得太急切，也不想让我的线人知道或猜测太多，所以我像往常一样感谢他，然后就走开了。现在已经是黄昏了，秋夜即将来临，所以我不能浪费任何时间。从伯克利的名录中得知米切尔父子公司的地址后，我很快就到了他们位于萨克维尔街的办公室。

The gentleman who saw me was particularly suave in manner, but uncommunicative in equal proportion. Having once told me that the Piccadilly house, which throughout our interview he called a ‘mansion,’ was sold, he considered my business as concluded. When I asked who had purchased it, he opened his eyes a thought wider, and paused a few seconds before replying, ‘It is sold, sir.’
见到我的那位先生态度特别温和，但同样沉默寡言。有一次他告诉我，皮卡迪利大街的房子——在我们的采访中他称之为“豪宅”——已经卖掉了，他认为我的事已经结束了。当我问谁买了它时，他睁大了眼睛想了想，停顿了几秒钟才回答说：“先生，已经卖了。”

‘Pardon me,’ I said, with equal politeness, ‘but I have a special reason for wishing to know who purchased it.’
“请原谅，”我同样礼貌地说，“但我有一个特殊的理由想知道是谁买了它。”

Again he paused longer, and raised his eyebrows still more. ‘It is sold, sir,’ was again his laconic reply.
他再次停顿得更久，眉毛扬得更厉害。 “已经卖了，先生。”他再次简短地回答。

‘Surely,’ I said, ‘you do not mind letting me know so much.’
“当然，”我说，“你不介意让我知道这么多。”

‘But I do mind,’ he answered. ‘The affairs of their clients are absolutely safe in the hands of Mitchell, Sons, & Candy.’
“但我确实介意，”他回答道。 “他们客户的事务在 Mitchell, Sons, & Candy 手中绝对安全。”

This was manifestly a prig of the first water, and there was no use arguing with him. I thought I had best meet him on his own ground, so I said, ‘Your clients, sir, are happy in having so resolute a guardian of their confidence. I am myself a professional man.’
这分明是个学究气的人，跟他争论是没有用的。我想我最好在他自己的地盘上与他会面，所以我说：‘先生，您的客户很高兴有一位如此坚定的守护者来维护他们的信心。我自己就是一个专业人士。

Here I handed him my card. ‘In this instance I am not prompted by curiosity, I act on the part of Lord Godalming, who wishes to know something of the property which was, he understood, lately for sale.’
我把我的名片递给他。 “在这种情况下，我并不是出于好奇，我是扮演戈达尔明勋爵的角色，他希望了解一些有关他理解的最近出售的财产的信息。”

These words put a different complexion on affairs. He said, ‘I would like to oblige you if I could, Mr. Harker, and especially would I like to oblige his lordship. We once carried out a small matter of renting some chambers for him when he was the honourable Arthur Holmwood. If you will let me have his lordship’s address I will consult the House on the subject, and will, in any case, communicate with his lordship by tonight’s post. It will be a pleasure if we can so far deviate from our rules as to give the required information to his lordship.’
这些话给事情带来了不同的面貌。他说：“如果可以的话，我愿意效劳您，哈克先生，尤其是效劳勋爵阁下。”当他还是尊敬的阿瑟·霍姆伍德时，我们曾为他做过一件小事，为他租了一些房间。如果您愿意让我知道阁下的地址，我将就此事咨询众议院，并且无论如何，我将在今晚的邮件中与阁下进行沟通。如果我们能够偏离我们的规则，向陛下提供所需的信息，那将是一件很高兴的事。”

I wanted to secure a friend, and not to make an enemy, so I thanked him, gave the address at Dr. Seward’s and came away. It was now dark, and I was tired and hungry. I got a cup of tea at the Aerated Bread Company and came down to Purfleet by the next train.
我想交到一个朋友，而不是树敌，所以我向他表示感谢，给出了苏厄德医生的地址，然后就离开了。天已经黑了，我又累又饿。我在充气面包公司喝了一杯茶，然后乘下一班火车来到珀弗利特。

I found all the others at home. Mina was looking tired and pale, but she made a gallant effort to be bright and cheerful. It wrung my heart to think that I had had to keep anything from her and so caused her inquietude. Thank God, this will be the last night of her looking on at our conferences, and feeling the sting of our not showing our confidence. It took all my courage to hold to the wise resolution of keeping her out of our grim task. She seems somehow more reconciled, or else the very subject seems to have become repugnant to her, for when any accidental allusion is made she actually shudders. I am glad we made our resolution in time, as with such a feeling as this, our growing knowledge would be torture to her.
我发现其他人都在家里。米娜看上去疲惫而苍白，但她努力让自己变得开朗、开朗。想到我不得不向她隐瞒任何事情，这让她感到不安，这让我很伤心。感谢上帝，这将是她观看我们会议的最后一晚，并感受到我们没有表现出信心的刺痛。我花了全部勇气才下定决心，不让她参与我们艰巨的任务。不知怎的，她似乎更加心安理得了，或者这个话题似乎已经让她感到厌恶，因为当任何意外的暗示出现时，她实际上会颤抖。我很高兴我们及时做出了决定，因为有这样的感觉，我们不断增长的知识对她来说将是一种折磨。

I could not tell the others of the day’s discovery till we were alone, so after dinner, followed by a little music to save appearances even amongst ourselves, I took Mina to her room and left her to go to bed. The dear girl was more affectionate with me than ever, and clung to me as though she would detain me, but there was much to be talked of and I came away. Thank God, the ceasing of telling things has made no difference between us.
直到我们独处时，我才能告诉其他人今天的发现，所以晚饭后，为了保全我们之间的面子，我放了一点音乐，然后我把米娜带到了她的房间，让她去睡觉了。那个可爱的女孩对我比以往任何时候都更加亲切，并且紧紧抓住我，好像她会留住我一样，但有很多话要说，我就离开了。感谢上帝，停止讲述事情对我们之间没有任何影响。

When I came down again I found the others all gathered round the fire in the study. In the train I had written my diary so far, and simply read it off to them as the best means of letting them get abreast of my own information.
当我再次下来时，我发现其他人都聚集在书房的火边。到目前为止，我在火车上写下了日记，只是将其读给他们听，这是让他们了解我自己的信息的最佳方式。

When I had finished Van Helsing said, ‘This has been a great day’s work, friend Jonathan. Doubtless we are on the track of the missing boxes. If we find them all in that house, then our work is near the end. But if there be some missing, we must search until we find them. Then shall we make our final coup, and hunt the wretch to his real death.’
当我讲完后，范海辛说：“这是伟大的一天，朋友乔纳森。”毫无疑问，我们正在追踪失踪的盒子。如果我们在那所房子里找到了他们，那么我们的工作就接近尾声了。但如果有遗漏的，我们就必须寻找，直到找到为止。那么我们就可以做出最后的政变，追捕这个不幸的人直到他真正的死亡。

We all sat silent awhile and all at once Mr. Morris spoke, ‘Say! How are we going to get into that house?’
我们都沉默地坐了一会儿，莫里斯先生突然开口说道：“说吧！”我们怎样才能进入那所房子呢？

‘We got into the other,’ answered Lord Godalming quickly.
“我们进入了另一个，”戈达尔明勋爵很快回答道。

‘But, Art, this is different. We broke house at Carfax, but we had night and a walled park to protect us. It will be a mighty different thing to commit burglary in Piccadilly, either by day or night. I confess I don’t see how we are going to get in unless that agency duck can find us a key of some sort.’
“但是，阿特，这不一样。我们在卡法克斯破门而入，但我们有夜晚和一个有围墙的公园来保护我们。无论白天还是晚上，在皮卡迪利大街实施入室盗窃都是完全不同的事情。我承认，除非那个机构鸭子能为我们找到某种钥匙，否则我不知道我们要如何进去。

Lord Godalming’s brows contracted, and he stood up and walked about the room. By-and-by he stopped and said, turning from one to another of us, ‘Quincey’s head is level. This burglary business is getting serious. We got off once all right, but we have now a rare job on hand. Unless we can find the Count’s key basket.’
戈达尔明勋爵的眉毛皱了起来，他站起来，在房间里走来走去。不久，他停下来，转向我们中的一个人，说道：“昆西的头是水平的。”这起入室盗窃案愈演愈烈。我们下了一次还好，但现在我们手头有一份难得的工作。除非我们能找到伯爵的钥匙篮。”

As nothing could well be done before morning, and as it would be at least advisable to wait till Lord Godalming should hear from Mitchell’s, we decided not to take any active step before breakfast time. For a good while we sat and smoked, discussing the matter in its various lights and bearings. I took the opportunity of bringing this diary right up to the moment. I am very sleepy and shall go to bed …
由于早上之前什么也做不了，而且至少建议等到戈达尔明勋爵收到米切尔的消息后，我们决定在早餐时间之前不采取任何积极的措施。我们坐下来抽烟了好一会儿，从不同的角度和方位讨论这件事。我趁此机会写下了这本日记。我很困，要去睡觉了……

Just a line. Mina sleeps soundly and her breathing is regular. Her forehead is puckered up into little wrinkles, as though she thinks even in her sleep. She is still too pale, but does not look so haggard as she did this morning. Tomorrow will, I hope, mend all this. She will be herself at home in Exeter. Oh, but I am sleepy!
只是一条线。米娜睡得很香，呼吸也很规律。她的额头皱起了小皱纹，仿佛在睡梦中她也在思考。她的脸色还是太苍白了，但看上去已经不像早上那么憔悴了。我希望明天能够解决这一切。她在埃克塞特会像在家里一样。哦，可是我困了！

DR. SEWARD’S DIARY
博士。苏厄德的日记

1 October.—I am puzzled afresh about Renfield. His moods change so rapidly that I find it difficult to keep touch of them, and as they always mean something more than his own well-being, they form a more than interesting study. This morning, when I went to see him after his repulse of Van Helsing, his manner was that of a man commanding destiny. He was, in fact, commanding destiny, subjectively. He did not really care for any of the things of mere earth, he was in the clouds and looked down on all the weaknesses and wants of us poor mortals.
10 月 1 日——我对雷菲尔德再次感到困惑。他的情绪变化如此之快，我发现很难跟上他的情绪，而且因为它们总是比他自己的幸福更有意义，所以它们构成了一项非常有趣的研究。今天早上，当我在他击退范海辛之后去见他时，他的态度就像一个主宰命运的人。事实上，他在主观上掌控着命运。他并不真正关心地球上的任何事物，他在云端，看不起我们这些可怜的凡人的所有弱点和需求。

I thought I would improve the occasion and learn something, so I asked him, ‘What about the flies these times?’
我想我可以改善这个场合并学到一些东西，所以我问他，“这次苍蝇怎么样？”

He smiled on me in quite a superior sort of way, such a smile as would have become the face of Malvolio, as he answered me, ‘The fly, my dear sir, has one striking feature. It’s wings are typical of the aerial powers of the psychic faculties. The ancients did well when they typified the soul as a butterfly!’
当他回答我时，他以相当优越的方式对我微笑，这种微笑就像马伏里奥的脸一样，“苍蝇，我亲爱的先生，有一个引人注目的特征。”它的翅膀是典型的心灵能力的空中力量。古人把灵魂描述为蝴蝶，做得很好！”

I thought I would push his analogy to its utmost logically, so I said quickly, ‘Oh, it is a soul you are after now, is it?’
我想我可以把他的比喻推向最合乎逻辑的地步，所以我很快地说：“哦，你现在要找的是一个灵魂，是吗？”

His madness foiled his reason, and a puzzled look spread over his face as, shaking his head with a decision which I had but seldom seen in him.
他的疯狂挫败了他的理智，他的脸上浮现出一种困惑的表情，摇着头做出了我很少在他身上看到的决定。

He said, ‘Oh, no, oh no! I want no souls. Life is all I want.’ Here he brightened up. ‘I am pretty indifferent about it at present. Life is all right. I have all I want. You must get a new patient, doctor, if you wish to study zoophagy!’
他说：‘噢，不，噢，不！我不要灵魂。生活就是我想要的一切。”说到这里，他的心情变得明亮起来。 “目前我对此相当漠不关心。生活一切都好。我拥有我想要的一切。医生，如果你想研究食动物，你必须找一个新病人！

This puzzled me a little, so I drew him on. ‘Then you command life. You are a god, I suppose?’
这让我有点困惑，所以我把他拉了过来。 ‘那么你就掌控了生命。我想你是神吧？

He smiled with an ineffably benign superiority. ‘Oh no! Far be it from me to arrogate to myself the attributes of the Deity. I am not even concerned in His especially spiritual doings. If I may state my intellectual position I am, so far as concerns things purely terrestrial, somewhat in the position which Enoch occupied spiritually!’
他微笑着，带着一种难以形容的仁慈的优越感。 '不好了！我绝不会将神的属性据为己有。我什至不关心他特别属灵的作为。如果我可以说明我的智力立场，就纯粹陆地上的事物而言，我在某种程度上处于以诺在精神上所占据的位置！

This was a poser to me. I could not at the moment recall Enoch’s appositeness, so I had to ask a simple question, though I felt that by so doing I was lowering myself in the eyes of the lunatic. ‘And why with Enoch?’
这对我来说是一个装腔作势的人。我一时记不起以诺的恰当性，所以我不得不问一个简单的问题，尽管我觉得这样做在疯子的眼中降低了自己的地位。 “那为什么和以诺在一起呢？”

‘Because he walked with God.’
“因为他与神同行。”

I could not see the analogy, but did not like to admit it, so I harked back to what he had denied. ‘So you don’t care about life and you don’t want souls. Why not?’ I put my question quickly and somewhat sternly, on purpose to disconcert him.
我看不出这个类比，但又不愿意承认，所以我又回顾了他所否认的内容。 ‘所以你不关心生命，也不想要灵魂。为什么不呢？”我快速而严厉地提出了问题，故意让他感到不安。

The effort succeeded, for an instant he unconsciously relapsed into his old servile manner, bent low before me, and actually fawned upon me as he replied. ‘I don’t want any souls, indeed, indeed! I don’t. I couldn’t use them if I had them. They would be no manner of use to me. I couldn’t eat them or …’
这一努力成功了，一瞬间他不自觉地又恢复了以前那种奴性的态度，在我面前弯下腰，回答时还对我阿谀奉承。 “我不想要任何灵魂，真的，真的！我不。如果我有它们，我就无法使用它们。它们对我来说毫无用处。我不能吃它们或者……”

He suddenly stopped and the old cunning look spread over his face, like a wind sweep on the surface of the water.
他突然停了下来，古老的狡黠之色在他的脸上蔓延开来，如一阵风掠过水面。

‘And doctor, as to life, what is it after all? When you’ve got all you require, and you know that you will never want, that is all. I have friends, good friends, like you, Dr. Seward.’ This was said with a leer of inexpressible cunning. ‘I know that I shall never lack the means of life!’
“那么，医生，生命到底是什么？当你拥有了你需要的一切，并且你知道你永远不会想要，仅此而已。我有朋友，好朋友，就像你一样，苏厄德博士。”说这话时，带着难以形容的狡猾的斜视。 “我知道我永远不会缺乏谋生手段！”

I think that through the cloudiness of his insanity he saw some antagonism in me, for he at once fell back on the last refuge of such as he, a dogged silence. After a short time I saw that for the present it was useless to speak to him. He was sulky, and so I came away.
我认为，透过他那层疯狂的阴云，他在我身上看到了某种敌意，因为他立刻就退回到像他这样的人的最后避难所，一种顽强的沉默。过了一会儿，我发现目前与他说话是没有用的。他很生气，所以我就走了。

Later in the day he sent for me. Ordinarily I would not have come without special reason, but just at present I am so interested in him that I would gladly make an effort. Besides, I am glad to have anything to help pass the time. Harker is out, following up clues, and so are Lord Godalming and Quincey. Van Helsing sits in my study poring over the record prepared by the Harkers. He seems to think that by accurate knowledge of all details he will light up on some clue. He does not wish to be disturbed in the work, without cause. I would have taken him with me to see the patient, only I thought that after his last repulse he might not care to go again. There was also another reason. Renfield might not speak so freely before a third person as when he and I were alone.
当天晚些时候，他派人来找我。按说如果没有特殊原因我是不会来的，但现在我对他很感兴趣，所以我很乐意出力。此外，我很高兴有任何事情可以帮助打发时间。哈克外出追踪线索，戈达尔明勋爵和昆西也外出了。范海辛坐在我的书房里仔细研究哈克斯乐队准备的唱片。他似乎认为，通过准确了解所有细节，他会发现一些线索。他不希望工作受到无故的干扰。我本想带他一起去见病人，只是我想，在他上次拒绝之后，他可能不想再去了。还有另一个原因。伦菲尔德在第三人面前可能不会像他和我单独相处时那样畅所欲言。

I found him sitting in the middle of the floor on his stool, a pose which is generally indicative of some mental energy on his part. When I came in, he said at once, as though the question had been waiting on his lips. ‘What about souls?’
我发现他坐在地板中间的凳子上，这个姿势通常表明他有一些精神能量。当我进来时，他立刻说道，仿佛这个问题一直在他嘴边等待着。 “那么灵魂呢？”

It was evident then that my surmise had been correct. Unconscious cerebration was doing its work, even with the lunatic. I determined to have the matter out.
事实证明我的猜测是正确的。无意识的思考正在发挥作用，即使对于疯子也是如此。我决心把这件事解决掉。

‘What about them yourself?’ I asked.
“他们自己呢？”我问。

He did not reply for a moment but looked all around him, and up and down, as though he expected to find some inspiration for an answer.
他半晌没有回答，而是上下左右环顾四周，似乎希望能从中找到答案的灵感。

‘I don’t want any souls!’ He said in a feeble, apologetic way. The matter seemed preying on his mind, and so I determined to use it, to ‘be cruel only to be kind.’ So I said, ‘You like life, and you want life?’
“我不想要任何灵魂！”他用微弱而充满歉意的语气说道。这件事似乎在折磨他的心灵，所以我决定利用它，“以残忍为善”。于是我说：“你喜欢生活，你想要生活吗？”

‘Oh yes! But that is all right. You needn’t worry about that!’
'哦是的！但没关系。你不用担心这个！

‘But,’ I asked, ‘how are we to get the life without getting the soul also?’
“但是，”我问道，“我们怎样才能获得生命而不同时获得灵魂呢？”

This seemed to puzzle him, so I followed it up, ‘A nice time you’ll have some time when you’re flying out here, with the souls of thousands of flies and spiders and birds and cats buzzing and twittering and moaning all around you. You’ve got their lives, you know, and you must put up with their souls!’
这似乎让他感到困惑，所以我接着说：“当你飞到这里时，你会度过一段愉快的时光，周围有成千上万的苍蝇、蜘蛛、鸟和猫的灵魂在嗡嗡叫、叽叽喳喳和呻吟。”你。你知道，你已经拥有了他们的生命，你必须忍受他们的灵魂！

Something seemed to affect his imagination, for he put his fingers to his ears and shut his eyes, screwing them up tightly just as a small boy does when his face is being soaped. There was something pathetic in it that touched me. It also gave me a lesson, for it seemed that before me was a child, only a child, though the features were worn, and the stubble on the jaws was white. It was evident that he was undergoing some process of mental disturbance, and knowing how his past moods had interpreted things seemingly foreign to himself, I thought I would enter into his mind as well as I could and go with him
似乎有什么东西影响了他的想象力，他用手指捂住耳朵，闭上眼睛，紧紧地眯着眼睛，就像一个小男孩在脸上涂肥皂时所做的那样。其中有一种可悲的东西让我感动。这也给了我一个教训，因为我面前似乎是一个孩子，只是一个孩子，虽然五官憔悴，下巴上的胡茬也白了。很明显，他正在经历某种精神障碍，并且知道他过去的情绪如何解释对他来说似乎陌生的事物，我想我会尽可能地进入他的思想并与他同行

The first step was to restore confidence, so I asked him, speaking pretty loud so that he would hear me through his closed ears, ‘Would you like some sugar to get your flies around again?’
第一步是恢复信心，所以我问他，声音很大，这​​样他就可以通过他闭着的耳朵听到我的声音，“你想要一些糖来让你的苍蝇再次活动吗？”

He seemed to wake up all at once, and shook his head. With a laugh he replied, ‘Not much! Flies are poor things, after all!’ After a pause he added, ‘But I don’t want their souls buzzing round me, all the same.’
他似乎一下子就醒悟了，摇了摇头。他笑着回答：“不多！”苍蝇毕竟是可怜的东西！”停顿了一下，他补充道，“但我还是不希望它们的灵魂在我周围嗡嗡作响。”

‘Or spiders?’ I went on.
“还是蜘蛛？”我继续说道。

‘Blow spiders! What’s the use of spiders? There isn’t anything in them to eat or …’ He stopped suddenly as though reminded of a forbidden topic.
‘吹蜘蛛！蜘蛛有什么用？里面没有任何东西可以吃，或者……”他突然停了下来，仿佛想起了一个禁忌话题。

‘So, so!’ I thought to myself, ‘this is the second time he has suddenly stopped at the word ‘drink’. What does it mean?’
“所以，所以！”我心里想，“这是他第二次突然停在‘喝’这个词上。”这是什么意思？'

Renfield seemed himself aware of having made a lapse, for he hurried on, as though to distract my attention from it, ‘I don’t take any stock at all in such matters. ‘Rats and mice and such small deer,’ as Shakespeare has it, ‘chicken feed of the larder’ they might be called. I’m past all that sort of nonsense. You might as well ask a man to eat molecules with a pair of chopsticks, as to try to interest me about the less carnivora, when I know of what is before me.’
雷菲尔德似乎自己也意识到自己犯了一个错误，他急忙继续说道，仿佛是为了分散我的注意力，“我对这种事情根本不感兴趣。”正如莎士比亚所说，“老鼠和小鹿”，它们可能被称为“食品储藏室的鸡饲料”。我已经摆脱了所有这些废话。当我知道我面前的是什么时，你不妨要求一个人用一双筷子吃分子，以试图引起我对较少食肉动物的兴趣。

‘I see,’ I said. ‘You want big things that you can make your teeth meet in? How would you like to breakfast on an elephant?’
“我明白了，”我说。 ‘你想要一些能让你咬牙切齿的大东西吗？你想在大象身上吃早餐吗？

‘What ridiculous nonsense you are talking?’ He was getting too wide awake, so I thought I would press him hard.
“你在说什么可笑的废话？”他太清醒了，所以我想我应该用力逼迫他。

‘I wonder,’ I said reflectively, ‘what an elephant’s soul is like!’
“我想知道，”我若有所思地说，“大象的灵魂是什么样的！”

The effect I desired was obtained, for he at once fell from his high-horse and became a child again.
我想要的效果达到了，他立刻从高高在上的姿态跌落下来，又变成了一个孩子。

‘I don’t want an elephant’s soul, or any soul at all!’ he said. For a few moments he sat despondently. Suddenly he jumped to his feet, with his eyes blazing and all the signs of intense cerebral excitement. ‘To hell with you and your souls!’ he shouted. ‘Why do you plague me about souls? Haven’t I got enough to worry, and pain, to distract me already, without thinking of souls?’
“我不想要大象的灵魂，或者根本不想要任何灵魂！”他说。他沮丧地坐了一会儿。突然，他跳了起来，眼睛里闪烁着光芒，所有的迹象都表现出大脑的强烈兴奋。 “让你和你的灵魂见鬼去吧！”他喊道。 ‘你为什么要为灵魂的事困扰我？我难道还没有足够多的忧虑和痛苦来分散我的注意力，而不考虑灵魂吗？

He looked so hostile that I thought he was in for another homicidal fit, so I blew my whistle.
他看起来充满敌意，我以为他又要杀人了，所以我吹了口哨。

The instant, however, that I did so he became calm, and said apologetically, ‘Forgive me, Doctor. I forgot myself. You do not need any help. I am so worried in my mind that I am apt to be irritable. If you only knew the problem I have to face, and that I am working out, you would pity, and tolerate, and pardon me. Pray do not put me in a strait waistcoat. I want to think and I cannot think freely when my body is confined. I am sure you will understand!’
然而，我一这么做，他就平静下来，抱歉地说：“请原谅我，医生。”我忘记了我自己。您不需要任何帮助。我心里很担心，所以很容易烦躁。如果你知道我要面对的问题，知道我正在锻炼，你就会怜悯我、容忍我、原谅我。祈祷不要让我穿上紧身背心。我想思考，但当我的身体被限制时，我无法自由思考。我相信你会理解的！

He had evidently self-control, so when the attendants came I told them not to mind, and they withdrew. Renfield watched them go. When the door was closed he said with considerable dignity and sweetness, ‘Dr. Seward, you have been very considerate towards me. Believe me that I am very, very grateful to you!’
显然他有自制力，所以当服务员来的时候，我告诉他们不要介意，他们就退了出去。雷菲尔德看着他们离去。当门关上时，他带着相当的尊严和甜蜜地说：“博士。”苏厄德，你对我非常体贴。相信我，我非常非常感谢你！”

I thought it well to leave him in this mood, and so I came away. There is certainly something to ponder over in this man’s state. Several points seem to make what the American interviewer calls ‘a story,’ if one could only get them in proper order. Here they are:
我觉得让他保持这种心情很好，所以我就离开了。从这个人的状态来看，确实有一些值得深思的地方。有几点似乎可以构成美国采访者所说的“一个故事”，只要我们能够按正确的顺序排列它们即可。他们来了：

Will not mention ‘drinking.’
不会提到“喝酒”。

Fears the thought of being burdened with the ‘soul’ of anything.
害怕被任何东西的“灵魂”所负担。

Has no dread of wanting ‘life’ in the future.
不害怕未来想要“生活”。

Despises the meaner forms of life altogether, though he dreads being haunted by their souls.
完全鄙视卑鄙的生命形式，尽管他害怕被它们的灵魂所困扰。

Logically all these things point one way! He has assurance of some kind that he will acquire some higher life.
从逻辑上讲，所有这些事情都指向一个方向！他有某种保证，他将获得更高的生活。

He dreads the consequence, the burden of a soul. Then it is a human life he looks to!
他害怕后果，害怕灵魂的负担。那么他所期待的就是人的生命！

And the assurance …?
还有保证……？

Merciful God! The Count has been to him, and there is some new scheme of terror afoot!
仁慈的上帝！伯爵已经来找他了，并且有一些新的恐怖计划正在酝酿之中！

Later.—I went after my round to Van Helsing and told him my suspicion. He grew very grave, and after thinking the matter over for a while asked me to take him to Renfield. I did so. As we came to the door we heard the lunatic within singing gaily, as he used to do in the time which now seems so long ago.
后来——我巡视完范海辛并告诉了他我的怀疑。他变得非常严肃，想了一会儿之后，要求我带他去伦菲尔德。我就这么做了。当我们走到门口时，我们听到里面的疯子在欢快地唱歌，就像他过去常常做的那样，现在看来是很久以前的事了。

When we entered we saw with amazement that he had spread out his sugar as of old. The flies, lethargic with the autumn, were beginning to buzz into the room. We tried to make him talk of the subject of our previous conversation, but he would not attend. He went on with his singing, just as though we had not been present. He had got a scrap of paper and was folding it into a notebook. We had to come away as ignorant as we went in.
当我们进去时，我们惊讶地发现他像以前一样摊开糖。苍蝇在秋天变得昏昏欲睡，开始嗡嗡地飞进房间。我们试图让他谈谈我们之前谈话的主题，但他不肯参加。他继续唱歌，就好像我们不在场一样。他拿到了一张纸片，正把它折进笔记本里。我们必须像进来时一样无知地离开。

His is a curious case indeed. We must watch him tonight.
他的例子确实很奇怪。今晚我们必须注意他。

LETTER, MITCHELL, SONS & CANDY TO LORD GODALMING.
米切尔、儿子和糖果给戈达明勋爵的信。

‘1 October.
‘10 月 1 日。

‘My Lord,
'我的主，

‘We are at all times only too happy to meet your wishes. We beg, with regard to the desire of your Lordship, expressed by Mr. Harker on your behalf, to supply the following information concerning the sale and purchase of No. 347, Piccadilly. The original vendors are the executors of the late Mr. Archibald Winter-Suffield. The purchaser is a foreign nobleman, Count de Ville, who effected the purchase himself paying the purchase money in notes ‘over the counter,’ if your Lordship will pardon us using so vulgar an expression. Beyond this we know nothing whatever of him.
“我们始终非常乐意满足您的愿望。根据哈克先生代表阁下表达的阁下的愿望，我们请求提供以下有关皮卡迪利大街 347 号买卖的信息。最初的供应商是已故阿奇博尔德·温特-萨菲尔德先生的遗嘱执行人。购买者是一位外国贵族，维尔伯爵，他亲自在“柜台”以纸币支付了购买金额，如果阁下能原谅我们使用如此粗俗的表达方式的话。除此之外我们对他一无所知。

‘We are, my Lord,
‘我们，我的主，

‘Your Lordship’s humble servants,
‘陛下卑微的仆人们，

‘MITCHELL, SONS & CANDY.’
“米切尔、儿子和糖果。”

DR. SEWARD’S DIARY
博士。苏厄德的日记

2 October.—I placed a man in the corridor last night, and told him to make an accurate note of any sound he might hear from Renfield’s room, and gave him instructions that if there should be anything strange he was to call me. After dinner, when we had all gathered round the fire in the study, Mrs. Harker having gone to bed, we discussed the attempts and discoveries of the day. Harker was the only one who had any result, and we are in great hopes that his clue may be an important one.
10 月 2 日——昨晚，我在走廊里安置了一个人，并告诉他准确记下他可能从雷菲尔德房间听到的任何声音，并指示他如果有任何奇怪的事情就给我打电话。晚饭后，当我们大家聚集在书房的火炉旁，哈克夫人已经上床睡觉时，我们讨论了当天的尝试和发现。哈克是唯一一个得出任何结果的人，我们非常希望他的线索可能是一个重要的线索。

Before going to bed I went round to the patient’s room and looked in through the observation trap. He was sleeping soundly, his heart rose and fell with regular respiration.
睡觉前，我绕到病人的房间，通过观察窗往里看。他睡得很香，心跳随着呼吸规律而起伏。

This morning the man on duty reported to me that a little after midnight he was restless and kept saying his prayers somewhat loudly. I asked him if that was all. He replied that it was all he heard. There was something about his manner, so suspicious that I asked him point blank if he had been asleep. He denied sleep, but admitted to having ‘dozed’ for a while. It is too bad that men cannot be trusted unless they are watched.
今天早上，值班的人向我报告说，午夜刚过，他就焦躁不安，一直大声地祈祷。我问他是不是就这些了。他回答说，这就是他所听到的。他的态度有些可疑，我直截了当地问他是否睡着了。他否认睡觉，但承认自己“打瞌睡”了一段时间。不幸的是，除非人们受到监视，否则人们就不能被信任。

Today Harker is out following up his clue, and Art and Quincey are looking after horses. Godalming thinks that it will be well to have horses always in readiness, for when we get the information which we seek there will be no time to lose. We must sterilize all the imported earth between sunrise and sunset. We shall thus catch the Count at his weakest, and without a refuge to fly to. Van Helsing is off to the British Museum looking up some authorities on ancient medicine. The old physicians took account of things which their followers do not accept, and the Professor is searching for witch and demon cures which may be useful to us later.
今天，哈克出去追踪他的线索，阿特和昆西正在照顾马匹。戈德尔明认为，让马匹时刻处于准备状态是件好事，因为当我们获得所需的信息时，就不会浪费时间了。我们必须在日出和日落之间对所有进口的土地进行消毒。这样，我们就会发现伯爵正处于最虚弱的状态，而且没有避难所可逃。范海辛要去大英博物馆寻找一些古代医学的权威。老医生考虑了他们的追随者不接受的事情，而教授正在寻找巫婆和恶魔的治疗方法，这可能对我们以后有用。

I sometimes think we must be all mad and that we shall wake to sanity in strait waistcoats.
有时我想我们一定都疯了，醒来后我们会穿着紧身背心恢复理智。

Later.—We have met again. We seem at last to be on the track, and our work of tomorrow may be the beginning of the end. I wonder if Renfield’s quiet has anything to do with this. His moods have so followed the doings of the Count, that the coming destruction of the monster may be carried to him some subtle way. If we could only get some hint as to what passed in his mind, between the time of my argument with him today and his resumption of fly-catching, it might afford us a valuable clue. He is now seemingly quiet for a spell … Is he? That wild yell seemed to come from his room …
后来——我们又见面了。我们似乎终于走上了正轨，明天的工作可能是结束的开始。我想知道雷菲尔德的安静是否与此有关。他的情绪如此跟随伯爵的所作所为，以至于怪物即将到来的毁灭可能会以某种微妙的方式传达给他。如果我们能得到一些关于从我今天和他争论到他恢复捕蝇之间他脑子里在想什么的暗示，这可能会给我们提供一个有价值的线索。他现在似乎安静了一段时间……是吗？那狂野的叫喊似乎是从他的房间里传来的……

The attendant came bursting into my room and told me that Renfield had somehow met with some accident. He had heard him yell, and when he went to him found him lying on his face on the floor, all covered with blood. I must go at once …
服务员冲进我的房间，告诉我雷菲尔德不知何故遇到了一些意外。他听到他大喊大叫，当他走到他身边时，发现他脸朝下躺在地板上，浑身是血。我必须马上去……

Chapter 21
第21章

DR. SEWARD’S DIARY
博士。苏厄德的日记

3 October.—Let me put down with exactness all that happened, as well as I can remember, since last I made an entry. Not a detail that I can recall must be forgotten. In all calmness I must proceed.
10 月 3 日。——让我准确地记下自上次登录以来所发生的一切以及我所记得的事情。我所记得的任何一个细节都不能被遗忘。我必须冷静地继续前进。

When I came to Renfield’s room I found him lying on the floor on his left side in a glittering pool of blood. When I went to move him, it became at once apparent that he had received some terrible injuries. There seemed none of the unity of purpose between the parts of the body which marks even lethargic sanity. As the face was exposed I could see that it was horribly bruised, as though it had been beaten against the floor. Indeed it was from the face wounds that the pool of blood originated.
当我来到雷菲尔德的房间时，我发现他左侧躺在地板上，躺在闪闪发光的血泊中。当我去移动他时，立即发现他受了一些严重的伤。身体各部分之间似乎没有任何目标的统一，这甚至标志着昏昏欲睡的理智。当他的脸暴露在外时，我可以看到它受到了严重的瘀伤，就像是在地板上被殴打过一样。确实，这滩血就是从脸上的伤口流出来的。

The attendant who was kneeling beside the body said to me as we turned him over, ‘I think, sir, his back is broken. See, both his right arm and leg and the whole side of his face are paralysed.’ How such a thing could have happened puzzled the attendant beyond measure. He seemed quite bewildered, and his brows were gathered in as he said, ‘I can’t understand the two things. He could mark his face like that by beating his own head on the floor. I saw a young woman do it once at the Eversfield Asylum before anyone could lay hands on her. And I suppose he might have broken his neck by falling out of bed, if he got in an awkward kink. But for the life of me I can’t imagine how the two things occurred. If his back was broke, he couldn’t beat his head, and if his face was like that before the fall out of bed, there would be marks of it.’
当我们把他翻过来时，跪在尸体旁边的侍者对我说：“我想，先生，他的背断了。”你看，他的右臂、右腿和整张脸都瘫痪了。”怎么会发生这样的事，让服务员百思不得其解。他似乎很困惑，眉头皱起，道：“这两件事我无法理解。”他可以通过用自己的头敲打地板来在自己的脸上留下这样的痕迹。我曾经在埃弗斯菲尔德精神病院看到一位年轻女子在有人对她下手之前就这么做了。我想，如果他陷入尴尬的困境，他可能会从床上掉下来摔断脖子。但我一生都无法想象这两件事是如何发生的。如果他的背断了，他就打不动他的头了，如果他的脸是从床上掉下来之前的样子，那就会有痕迹。

I said to him, ‘Go to Dr. Van Helsing, and ask him to kindly come here at once. I want him without an instant’s delay.’
我对他说：‘去找范海辛医生，请他立即过来。我想要他，一刻都不能耽搁。

The man ran off, and within a few minutes the Professor, in his dressing gown and slippers, appeared. When he saw Renfield on the ground, he looked keenly at him a moment, and then turned to me. I think he recognized my thought in my eyes, for he said very quietly, manifestly for the ears of the attendant, ‘Ah, a sad accident! He will need very careful watching, and much attention. I shall stay with you myself, but I shall first dress myself. If you will remain I shall in a few minutes join you.’
那人跑开了，几分钟后，穿着睡衣和拖鞋的教授出现了。当他看到地上的雷菲尔德时，他敏锐地看了他一会儿，然后转向我。我想他从我眼中看出了我的想法，因为他非常轻声地、显然是为了服务员的耳朵说：“啊，一场悲伤的事故！”他需要非常仔细的观察和高度的关注。我自己会留在你身边，但我要先穿好衣服。如果你留下来，我几分钟后就会加入你。

The patient was now breathing stertorously and it was easy to see that he had suffered some terrible injury.
病人现在呼吸粗重，很容易看出他受了重伤。

Van Helsing returned with extraordinary celerity, bearing with him a surgical case. He had evidently been thinking and had his mind made up, for almost before he looked at the patient, he whispered to me, ‘Send the attendant away. We must be alone with him when he becomes conscious, after the operation.’
范海辛带着一个外科手术箱异常迅速地回来了。他显然一直在思考，已经下定了决心，因为几乎在他看病人之前，他低声对我说：“把服务员送走。”手术后，当他恢复意识时，我们必须单独和他在一起。

I said, ‘I think that will do now, Simmons. We have done all that we can at present. You had better go your round, and Dr. Van Helsing will operate. Let me know instantly if there be anything unusual anywhere.’
我说：‘我想现在就可以了，西蒙斯。目前我们已经尽力了。你最好去巡视一下，范海辛医生将为你进行手术。如果有什么异常情况请立即告诉我。”

The man withdrew, and we went into a strict examination of the patient. The wounds of the face were superficial. The real injury was a depressed fracture of the skull, extending right up through the motor area.
那人退了出去，我们对病人进行了严格的检查。脸上的伤口很浅。真正的伤害是颅骨凹陷性骨折，一直延伸到运动区。

The Professor thought a moment and said, ‘We must reduce the pressure and get back to normal conditions, as far as can be. The rapidity of the suffusion shows the terrible nature of his injury. The whole motor area seems affected. The suffusion of the brain will increase quickly, so we must trephine at once or it may be too late.’
教授想了想，说道：“我们必须减轻压力，尽可能恢复正常状态。”血流的速度之快表明了他伤势的严重性。整个运动区域似乎都受到影响。大脑的充血会迅速增加，所以我们必须立即进行环钻，否则可能就太晚了。

As he was speaking there was a soft tapping at the door. I went over and opened it and found in the corridor without, Arthur and Quincey in pajamas and slippers, the former spoke, ‘I heard your man call up Dr. Van Helsing and tell him of an accident. So I woke Quincey or rather called for him as he was not asleep. Things are moving too quickly and too strangely for sound sleep for any of us these times. I’ve been thinking that tomorrow night will not see things as they have been. We’ll have to look back, and forward a little more than we have done. May we come in?’
正当他说话的时候，门外传来轻轻的敲门声。我走过去打开门，发现门外的走廊里，穿着睡衣和拖鞋的亚瑟和昆西，前者说道：“我听到你的人打电话给范海辛医生，告诉他发生了一场事故。”所以我叫醒了昆西，或者更确切地说，因为他还没有睡着，所以我叫醒了他。如今，事情进展得太快、太奇怪，我们任何人都无法安然入睡。我一直在想，明晚事情不会再像以前那样了。我们必须回顾过去，并向前迈进一点。我们可以进来吗？

I nodded, and held the door open till they had entered, then I closed it again. When Quincey saw the attitude and state of the patient, and noted the horrible pool on the floor, he said softly, ‘My God! What has happened to him? Poor, poor devil!’
我点点头，把门打开，直到他们进来，然后我又把门关上。当昆西看到病人的态度和状态，并注意到地板上可怕的水池时，他轻声说道：“天哪！他怎么了？可怜的，可怜的魔鬼！

I told him briefly, and added that we expected he would recover consciousness after the operation, for a short time, at all events. He went at once and sat down on the edge of the bed, with Godalming beside him. We all watched in patience.
我简单地告诉了他，并补充说我们预计他无论如何都会在手术后恢复意识，时间很短。他立刻走过去，在床边坐下，戈达尔明坐在他身边。我们都耐心地观看着。

‘We shall wait,’ said Van Helsing, ‘just long enough to fix the best spot for trephining, so that we may most quickly and perfectly remove the blood clot, for it is evident that the haemorrhage is increasing.’
“我们要等，”范海辛说，“只要找到环钻的最佳位置，这样我们就可以最快、最完美地去除血凝块，因为很明显，出血正在增加。”

The minutes during which we waited passed with fearful slowness. I had a horrible sinking in my heart, and from Van Helsing’s face I gathered that he felt some fear or apprehension as to what was to come. I dreaded the words Renfield might speak. I was positively afraid to think. But the conviction of what was coming was on me, as I have read of men who have heard the death watch. The poor man’s breathing came in uncertain gasps. Each instant he seemed as though he would open his eyes and speak, but then would follow a prolonged stertorous breath, and he would relapse into a more fixed insensibility. Inured as I was to sick beds and death, this suspense grew and grew upon me. I could almost hear the beating of my own heart, and the blood surging through my temples sounded like blows from a hammer. The silence finally became agonizing. I looked at my companions, one after another, and saw from their flushed faces and damp brows that they were enduring equal torture. There was a nervous suspense over us all, as though overhead some dread bell would peal out powerfully when we should least expect it.
我们等待的时间过得极其缓慢。我的心猛地一沉，从范海辛的脸上我看出他对即将发生的事情感到有些恐惧或忧虑。我害怕雷菲尔德可能会说的话。我真的不敢去想。但我对即将发生的事情深信不疑，正如我读到的那些听到死亡守望的人一样。可怜人的呼吸充满了不确定的喘息声。他似乎每时每刻都会睁开眼睛说话，但随后会出现长时间的喘息声，然后他会再次陷入一种更加固定的麻木状态。尽管我已经习惯了病床和死亡，但这种悬念却在我心中越来越强烈。我几乎能听到自己的心跳声，太阳穴里涌动的血液听起来就像是锤子敲击的声音。沉默终于变得令人痛苦。我一个又一个地看着我的同伴，从他们涨红的脸和潮湿的眉毛中看出他们正在遭受着同样的折磨。我们所有人都笼罩着一种紧张的悬念，仿佛头顶上有某种恐惧的钟声会在我们最意想不到的时候猛烈地敲响。

At last there came a time when it was evident that the patient was sinking fast. He might die at any moment. I looked up at the Professor and caught his eyes fixed on mine. His face was sternly set as he spoke, ‘There is no time to lose. His words may be worth many lives. I have been thinking so, as I stood here. It may be there is a soul at stake! We shall operate just above the ear.’
最后，病人明显地快速下沉了。他随时都可能死去。我抬头看着教授，发现他的眼睛正盯着我。他表情严肃，说道：“不能再浪费时间了。”他的话可能值得很多人的生命。当我站在这里时，我一直这么想。也许有一个灵魂处于危险之中！我们将在耳朵上方进行操作。

Without another word he made the operation. For a few moments the breathing continued to be stertorous. Then there came a breath so prolonged that it seemed as though it would tear open his chest. Suddenly his eyes opened, and became fixed in a wild, helpless stare. This was continued for a few moments, then it was softened into a glad surprise, and from his lips came a sigh of relief. He moved convulsively, and as he did so, said, ‘I’ll be quiet, Doctor. Tell them to take off the strait waistcoat. I have had a terrible dream, and it has left me so weak that I cannot move. What’s wrong with my face? It feels all swollen, and it smarts dreadfully.’
他二话没说就做了手术。有那么一会儿，呼吸声依然粗重。然后，呼吸变得漫长，仿佛要撕裂他的胸膛。突然，他睁开了眼睛，眼神中充满了狂野而无助的目光。这样持续了一会儿，然后又化为惊喜，他的嘴里发出了一声如释重负的叹息。他抽搐着，一边说：“我会安静的，医生。”叫他们脱掉马甲。我做了一个可怕的梦，它让我虚弱得无法动弹。我的脸怎么了？感觉全身都肿了，而且疼得厉害。”

He tried to turn his head, but even with the effort his eyes seemed to grow glassy again so I gently put it back. Then Van Helsing said in a quiet grave tone, ‘Tell us your dream, Mr. Renfield.’
他试图转过头，但尽管如此努力，他的眼睛似乎又变得呆滞了，所以我轻轻地把头转了回去。然后范海辛用一种平静而严肃的语气说道：“告诉我们你的梦想，伦菲尔德先生。”

As he heard the voice his face brightened, through its mutilation, and he said, ‘That is Dr. Van Helsing. How good it is of you to be here. Give me some water, my lips are dry, and I shall try to tell you. I dreamed …’
当他听到这个声音时，他的脸因残缺不全而变得明亮起来，他说：“那是范海辛博士。”你能来到这里真是太好了。给我一些水，我的嘴唇很干，我会尽力告诉你。我梦到 …'

He stopped and seemed fainting. I called quietly to Quincey, ‘The brandy, it is in my study, quick!’ He flew and returned with a glass, the decanter of brandy and a carafe of water. We moistened the parched lips, and the patient quickly revived.
他停了下来，看上去晕倒了。我轻声对昆西喊道：“白兰地，在我的书房里，快点！”他带着一杯、一瓶白兰地和一瓶水飞回来了。我们湿润了干裂的嘴唇，病人很快就苏醒了。

It seemed, however, that his poor injured brain had been working in the interval, for when he was quite conscious, he looked at me piercingly with an agonized confusion which I shall never forget, and said, ‘I must not deceive myself. It was no dream, but all a grim reality.’ Then his eyes roved round the room. As they caught sight of the two figures sitting patiently on the edge of the bed he went on, ‘If I were not sure already, I would know from them.’
然而，他可怜的受伤的大脑在这段时间里似乎一直在工作，因为当他完全清醒时，他用一种我永远不会忘记的痛苦困惑尖锐地看着我，说：“我不能欺骗自己。”这不是梦，而是残酷的现实。”然后他的眼睛在房间里扫视了一圈。当他们看到耐心地坐在床边的两个人影时，他继续说道：“如果我还不确定，我会从他们那里知道。”

For an instant his eyes closed, not with pain or sleep but voluntarily, as though he were bringing all his faculties to bear. When he opened them he said, hurriedly, and with more energy than he had yet displayed, ‘Quick, Doctor, quick, I am dying! I feel that I have but a few minutes, and then I must go back to death, or worse! Wet my lips with brandy again. I have something that I must say before I die. Or before my poor crushed brain dies anyhow. Thank you! It was that night after you left me, when I implored you to let me go away. I couldn’t speak then, for I felt my tongue was tied. But I was as sane then, except in that way, as I am now. I was in an agony of despair for a long time after you left me, it seemed hours. Then there came a sudden peace to me. My brain seemed to become cool again, and I realized where I was. I heard the dogs bark behind our house, but not where He was!’
有那么一瞬间，他闭上了眼睛，不是因为疼痛，也不是因为睡意，而是自愿的，仿佛他正在发挥他所有的能力。当他打开它们时，他匆忙地说，并且比他表现出的更有力，“快点，医生，快点，我快死了！”我觉得我只有几分钟的时间，然后我就必须回去死，或者更糟！再次用白兰地润湿我的嘴唇。在我死之前，我有一些话必须说。或者在我可怜的破碎的大脑死亡之前。谢谢你！就在你离开我的那天晚上，我恳求你放我走。那时我无法说话，因为我感觉我的舌头被束缚了。但那时的我和现在一样神志清醒，除了那个方面。你离开我后很长一段时间我都处于绝望的痛苦之中，好像几个小时。然后我突然平静下来。我的大脑似乎又变凉了，我意识到自己身处何处。我听到狗在我们家后面吠叫，但不是他在哪里！”

As he spoke, Van Helsing’s eyes never blinked, but his hand came out and met mine and gripped it hard. He did not, however, betray himself. He nodded slightly and said, ‘Go on,’ in a low voice.
说话时，范海辛的眼睛没有眨一下，但他伸出手，握住了我的手。然而，他并没有背叛自己。他微微点头，低声说道：“继续吧。”

Renfield proceeded. ‘He came up to the window in the mist, as I had seen him often before, but he was solid then, not a ghost, and his eyes were fierce like a man’s when angry. He was laughing with his red mouth, the sharp white teeth glinted in the moonlight when he turned to look back over the belt of trees, to where the dogs were barking. I wouldn’t ask him to come in at first, though I knew he wanted to, just as he had wanted all along. Then he began promising me things, not in words but by doing them.’
伦菲尔德继续说道。 “他在雾气中来到窗前，我以前经常见到他，但当时他是实体的，不是鬼魂，他的眼睛像生气时的人一样凶狠。他张着红红的嘴大笑着，锋利的白牙在月光下闪闪发光，当他回头看向林带上的狗吠声时。一开始我不会请他进来，尽管我知道他想进来，就像他一直以来的愿望一样。然后他开始向我承诺一些事情，不是在口头上，而是通过行动来实现。”

He was interrupted by a word from the Professor, ‘How?’
他被教授的一句话打断了：“怎么样？”

‘By making them happen. Just as he used to send in the flies when the sun was shining. Great big fat ones with steel and sapphire on their wings. And big moths, in the night, with skull and cross-bones on their backs.’
'通过让它们发生。就像他以前在阳光明媚的时候送苍蝇一样。又大又胖，翅膀上有钢和蓝宝石。还有大飞蛾，在夜晚，背上有骷髅和交叉骨。”

Van Helsing nodded to him as he whispered to me unconsciously, ‘The Acherontia Atropos of the Sphinges, what you call the ‘Death’s-head Moth’?’
范海辛向他点了点头，无意识地对我低声说道：“天蛾属的阿切隆提亚·阿特罗波斯，你称之为‘死头蛾’？”

The patient went on without stopping, ‘Then he began to whisper.‘Rats, rats, rats! Hundreds, thousands, millions of them, and every one a life. And dogs to eat them, and cats too. All lives! All red blood, with years of life in it, and not merely buzzing flies!’ I laughed at him, for I wanted to see what he could do. Then the dogs howled, away beyond the dark trees in His house. He beckoned me to the window. I got up and looked out, and He raised his hands, and seemed to call out without using any words. A dark mass spread over the grass, coming on like the shape of a flame of fire. And then He moved the mist to the right and left, and I could see that there were thousands of rats with their eyes blazing red, like His only smaller. He held up his hand, and they all stopped, and I thought he seemed to be saying, ‘All these lives will I give you, ay, and many more and greater, through countless ages, if you will fall down and worship me!’ And then a red cloud, like the colour of blood, seemed to close over my eyes, and before I knew what I was doing, I found myself opening the sash and saying to Him, ‘Come in, Lord and Master!’ The rats were all gone, but He slid into the room through the sash, though it was only open an inch wide, just as the Moon herself has often come in through the tiniest crack and has stood before me in all her size and splendour.’
病人不停地继续说，“然后他开始低声说：‘老鼠，老鼠，老鼠！数百个、数千个、数百万个，每个人都是一个生命。还有狗吃它们，还有猫。所有的生命！都是红色的血，里面有多年的生命，而不仅仅是嗡嗡作响的苍蝇！”我嘲笑他，因为我想看看他能做什么。然后狗在他屋子里的黑树林之外嚎叫起来。他示意我到窗边。我起身向外望去，他举起双手，似乎没有任何言语地呼喊。一团黑色的东西在草地上蔓延开来，就像火焰的形状。然后他把雾气左右移动，我可以看到有成千上万的老鼠，它们的眼睛呈红色，就像他唯一的小老鼠一样。他举起了手，他们都停了下来，我想他似乎是在说：‘我将赐予你所有这些生命，哎呀，还有无数个世纪里更多、更伟大的生命，如果你愿意俯伏敬拜我的话！ ’然后，一朵血色的红云似乎遮住了我的眼睛，在我意识到自己在做什么之前，我发现自己打开了腰带，对他说：‘请进，主啊，主人！’老鼠全都不见了，但他却从窗框里溜进了房间，尽管窗框只打开了一英寸宽，就像月亮本身经常从最微小的裂缝中进来一样，以她的大小和辉煌站在我面前。

His voice was weaker, so I moistened his lips with the brandy again, and he continued, but it seemed as though his memory had gone on working in the interval for his story was further advanced. I was about to call him back to the point, but Van Helsing whispered to me, ‘Let him go on. Do not interrupt him. He cannot go back, and maybe could not proceed at all if once he lost the thread of his thought.’
他的声音变弱了，所以我又用白兰地润湿了他的嘴唇，他继续说道，但似乎他的记忆在间隙中继续运转，因为他的故事进一步推进了。我正要让他回到正题，但范海辛低声对我说：‘让他继续说下去。不要打断他。他无法回头，一旦失去了思绪，也许就根本无法继续前进。

He proceeded, ‘All day I waited to hear from him, but he did not send me anything, not even a blowfly, and when the moon got up I was pretty angry with him. When he did slide in through the window, though it was shut, and did not even knock, I got mad with him. He sneered at me, and his white face looked out of the mist with his red eyes gleaming, and he went on as though he owned the whole place, and I was no one. He didn’t even smell the same as he went by me. I couldn’t hold him. I thought that, somehow, Mrs. Harker had come into the room.’
他接着说：“我一整天都在等他的消息，但他没有给我寄任何东西，甚至连一只绿头苍蝇都没有，当月亮升起时，我对他很生气。”当他确实从窗户滑进来时，尽管窗户是关着的，甚至没有敲门，我还是对他很生气。他冷笑着看着我，苍白的脸从雾气中探出头来，红色的眼睛闪闪发亮，他继续往前走，仿佛整个地方都是他的，而我却不是其中之一。当他从我身边经过时，他身上的气味甚至都不一样了。我无法抓住他。我以为哈克夫人不知何故走进了房间。

The two men sitting on the bed stood up and came over, standing behind him so that he could not see them, but where they could hear better. They were both silent, but the Professor started and quivered. His face, however, grew grimmer and sterner still. Renfield went on without noticing, ‘When Mrs. Harker came in to see me this afternoon she wasn’t the same. It was like tea after the teapot has been watered.’ Here we all moved, but no one said a word.
坐在床上的两个人站了起来，走了过来，站在他的身后，这样他就看不到他们，但又可以听得更清楚。他们都沉默了，但教授吃了一惊，浑身发抖。然而，他的脸色却变得更加阴沉和严肃。雷菲尔德继续说道，没有注意到，“今天下午哈克太太来看我时，她已经不一样了。”就像茶壶浇水后的茶一样。”说到这里，我们都动了，但没有人说一句话。

He went on, ‘I didn’t know that she was here till she spoke, and she didn’t look the same. I don’t care for the pale people. I like them with lots of blood in them, and hers all seemed to have run out. I didn’t think of it at the time, but when she went away I began to think, and it made me mad to know that He had been taking the life out of her.’ I could feel that the rest quivered, as I did. But we remained otherwise still. ‘So when He came tonight I was ready for Him. I saw the mist stealing in, and I grabbed it tight. I had heard that madmen have unnatural strength. And as I knew I was a madman, at times anyhow, I resolved to use my power. Ay, and He felt it too, for He had to come out of the mist to struggle with me. I held tight, and I thought I was going to win, for I didn’t mean Him to take any more of her life, till I saw His eyes. They burned into me, and my strength became like water. He slipped through it, and when I tried to cling to Him, He raised me up and flung me down. There was a red cloud before me, and a noise like thunder, and the mist seemed to steal away under the door.’
他接着说：“直到她开口说话，我才知道她在这里，而且她看起来也不一样了。”我不关心苍白的人。我喜欢里面有很多血的东西，而她的血似乎都已经用完了。我当时并没有想到这一点，但当她离开后，我开始思考，知道他已经夺走了她的生命，这让我很生气。做过。但我们还是一动不动。 “所以当他今晚到来时，我已经准备好迎接他了。我看到雾气悄悄袭来，我紧紧抓住它。我听说疯子有超自然的力量。当我知道自己是个疯子时，无论如何，有时我决定使用我的力量。是的，他也感觉到了，因为他必须从迷雾中走出来与我斗争。我紧紧抓住，我以为我会赢，因为我并不想让他再夺走她的生命，直到我看到他的眼睛。它们在我身上燃烧，我的力量变得像水一样。他滑了过去，当我试图抓住他时，他把我举了起来，又把我扔了下去。我面前有一朵红色的云，一声雷鸣般的声音，薄雾似乎从门下溜走了。

His voice was becoming fainter and his breath more stertorous. Van Helsing stood up instinctively.
他的声音越来越微弱，呼吸也越来越粗重。范海辛本能地站了起来。

‘We know the worst now,’ he said. ‘He is here, and we know his purpose. It may not be too late. Let us be armed, the same as we were the other night, but lose no time, there is not an instant to spare.’
“我们现在知道最坏的情况了，”他说。 “他在这里，我们知道他的目的。也许还不算太晚。让我们武装起来，就像那天晚上一样，但不要浪费时间，一刻也不能闲着。”

There was no need to put our fear, nay our conviction, into words, we shared them in common. We all hurried and took from our rooms the same things that we had when we entered the Count’s house. The Professor had his ready, and as we met in the corridor he pointed to them significantly as he said, ‘They never leave me, and they shall not till this unhappy business is over. Be wise also, my friends. It is no common enemy that we deal with Alas! Alas! That dear Madam Mina should suffer!’ He stopped, his voice was breaking, and I do not know if rage or terror predominated in my own heart.
没有必要用语言表达我们的恐惧，甚至我们的信念，我们有共同点。我们都赶紧从自己的房间里拿出了我们进入伯爵家时所拥有的东西。教授已经准备好了，当我们在走廊见面时，他意味深长地指着他们说：“他们永远不会离开我，除非这件不幸的事情结束，否则他们不会离开我。”我的朋友们，也要明智一点。我们对付的不是共同的敌人，唉！唉!亲爱的米娜女士应该受苦！”他停了下来，声音沙哑，我不知道我心里是愤怒还是恐惧。

Outside the Harkers’ door we paused. Art and Quincey held back, and the latter said, ‘Should we disturb her?’
在哈克家门外，我们停了下来。阿特和昆西忍住了，后者说：“我们应该打扰她吗？”

‘We must,’ said Van Helsing grimly. ‘If the door be locked, I shall break it in.’
“我们必须这么做，”范海辛冷酷地说。 “如果门锁着，我就破门而入。”

‘May it not frighten her terribly? It is unusual to break into a lady’s room!’
‘难道这不会让她害怕极了吗？闯入女士房间可不寻常！”

Van Helsing said solemnly, ‘You are always right. But this is life and death. All chambers are alike to the doctor. And even were they not they are all as one to me tonight. Friend John, when I turn the handle, if the door does not open, do you put your shoulder down and shove. And you too, my friends. Now!’
范海辛郑重地说：“你永远是对的。”但这就是生与死。对于医生来说，所有的房间都是一样的。即使他们不是，今晚对我来说他们也是一体的。朋友约翰，当我转动把手时，如果门打不开，你会放下肩膀并用力推吗？还有你，我的朋友们。现在！'

He turned the handle as he spoke, but the door did not yield. We threw ourselves against it. With a crash it burst open, and we almost fell headlong into the room. The Professor did actually fall, and I saw across him as he gathered himself up from hands and knees. What I saw appalled me. I felt my hair rise like bristles on the back of my neck, and my heart seemed to stand still.
他一边说着，一边转动门把手，但门却纹丝不动。我们全力反对。砰的一声，门炸开了，我们差点一头栽进房间里。教授确实摔倒了，当他用手和膝盖站起来时，我看到了他。我所看到的让我震惊。我感觉脖子后面的头发像鬃毛一样立起来，我的心似乎静止了。

The moonlight was so bright that through the thick yellow blind the room was light enough to see. On the bed beside the window lay Jonathan Harker, his face flushed and breathing heavily as though in a stupor. Kneeling on the near edge of the bed facing outwards was the white-clad figure of his wife. By her side stood a tall, thin man, clad in black. His face was turned from us, but the instant we saw we all recognized the Count, in every way, even to the scar on his forehead. With his left hand he held both Mrs. Harker’s hands, keeping them away with her arms at full tension. His right hand gripped her by the back of the neck, forcing her face down on his bosom. Her white nightdress was smeared with blood, and a thin stream trickled down the man’s bare chest which was shown by his torn-open dress. The attitude of the two had a terrible resemblance to a child forcing a kitten’s nose into a saucer of milk to compel it to drink. As we burst into the room, the Count turned his face, and the hellish look that I had heard described seemed to leap into it. His eyes flamed red with devilish passion. The great nostrils of the white aquiline nose opened wide and quivered at the edge, and the white sharp teeth, behind the full lips of the blood dripping mouth, clamped together like those of a wild beast. With a wrench, which threw his victim back upon the bed as though hurled from a height, he turned and sprang at us. But by this time the Professor had gained his feet, and was holding towards him the envelope which contained the Sacred Wafer. The Count suddenly stopped, just as poor Lucy had done outside the tomb, and cowered back. Further and further back he cowered, as we, lifting our crucifixes, advanced. The moonlight suddenly failed, as a great black cloud sailed across the sky. And when the gaslight sprang up under Quincey’s match, we saw nothing but a faint vapour. This, as we looked, trailed under the door, which with the recoil from its bursting open, had swung back to its old position. Van Helsing, Art, and I moved forward to Mrs. Harker, who by this time had drawn her breath and with it had given a scream so wild, so ear-piercing, so despairing that it seems to me now that it will ring in my ears till my dying day. For a few seconds she lay in her helpless attitude and disarray. Her face was ghastly, with a pallor which was accentuated by the blood which smeared her lips and cheeks and chin. From her throat trickled a thin stream of blood. Her eyes were mad with terror. Then she put before her face her poor crushed hands, which bore on their whiteness the red mark of the Count’s terrible grip, and from behind them came a low desolate wail which made the terrible scream seem only the quick expression of an endless grief. Van Helsing stepped forward and drew the coverlet gently over her body, whilst Art, after looking at her face for an instant despairingly, ran out of the room.
月光如此明亮，透过厚厚的黄色百叶窗，房间里的光线足以看见。窗边的床上躺着乔纳森·哈克，他脸色通红，呼吸粗重，仿佛处于昏迷状态。跪在床边，面朝外的是他妻子的白衣身影。她的身边，站着一个高瘦的男人，一身黑衣。他的脸背对着我们，但我们一看到他，就在各个方面都认出了伯爵，甚至连他额头上的伤疤也认出来了。他用左手握住哈克夫人的双手，用她的双臂完全紧张地把它们分开。他的右手掐住了她的后颈，将她的脸压在了他的怀里。她的白色睡裙上沾满了血迹，一道细流顺着男人裸露的胸膛流下，从他撕破的衣裙上可见。两人的态度就像是小孩子把小猫的鼻子塞进一盘奶里逼它喝一样。当我们冲进房间时，伯爵转过脸，我听到的那种地狱般的表情似乎跃入其中。他的眼睛里充满了恶魔般的热情，变成了红色。白色鹰鼻的大鼻孔张得大大的，边缘颤抖着，白色尖利的牙齿，在滴血的大嘴后面，像野兽的牙齿一样紧紧地咬在一起。他用力一扭，把他的受害者扔回床上，就像从高处扔下来一样，他转身向我们扑来。但这时候教授已经站了起来，并把装有圣饼的信封递给了他。伯爵突然停了下来，就像可怜的露西在坟墓外所做的那样，向后退了一步。当我们举起十字架前进时，他越来越退缩。 月光突然消失了，天空中飘过一片巨大的黑云。当昆西的火柴下煤气灯亮起时，我们只看到了微弱的蒸汽。正如我们所看到的，它拖在门下面，随着门突然打开的反作用力，门又回到了原来的位置。范海辛、阿特和我走向哈克夫人，她此时已经屏住了呼吸，并发出了一声尖叫，如此狂野、如此刺耳、如此绝望，在我看来，现在它会响起来。我的耳朵，直到我死去的那一天。她以无助和混乱的态度躺了几秒钟。她的脸色惨白，嘴唇、脸颊和下巴上沾满了鲜血，显得更加苍白。一道细细的血从她的喉咙里流淌出来。她的眼睛里充满了恐惧。然后她把那双可怜的、被压伤的手放在脸上，白皙的双手上留下了伯爵可怕的抓握留下的红色印记，从后面传来一声低沉而凄凉的哀号，这让那可怕的尖叫声似乎只是无尽悲伤的快速表达。范海辛上前，轻轻地把被子拉到她身上，而阿特绝望地看了她一眼，然后跑出了房间。

Van Helsing whispered to me, ‘Jonathan is in a stupor such as we know the Vampire can produce. We can do nothing with poor Madam Mina for a few moments till she recovers herself. I must wake him!’
范海辛低声对我说：“乔纳森陷入了我们所知道的吸血鬼所能造成的昏迷状态。”我们暂时对可怜的米娜女士无能为力，直到她恢复过来。我必须叫醒他！

He dipped the end of a towel in cold water and with it began to flick him on the face, his wife all the while holding her face between her hands and sobbing in a way that was heart breaking to hear. I raised the blind, and looked out of the window. There was much moonshine, and as I looked I could see Quincey Morris run across the lawn and hide himself in the shadow of a great yew tree. It puzzled me to think why he was doing this. But at the instant I heard Harker’s quick exclamation as he woke to partial consciousness, and turned to the bed. On his face, as there might well be, was a look of wild amazement. He seemed dazed for a few seconds, and then full consciousness seemed to burst upon him all at once, and he started up.
他把毛巾的一端浸入冷水中，然后开始拍打他的脸，他的妻子一直用双手捂着脸，抽泣着，声音听着令人心碎。我拉起百叶窗，看向窗外。月光很多，当我看去时，我可以看到昆西·莫里斯跑过草坪，躲在一棵巨大的紫杉树的阴影里。我很困惑地思考他为什么要这样做。但就在这时，我听到哈克快速惊呼了一声，他清醒过来，转向床边。他的脸上，很可能有一种极度惊讶的表情。他似乎茫然了几秒钟，然后突然完全清醒了，他惊醒了。

His wife was aroused by the quick movement, and turned to him with her arms stretched out, as though to embrace him. Instantly, however, she drew them in again, and putting her elbows together, held her hands before her face, and shuddered till the bed beneath her shook.
他的妻子被这快速的动作惊醒，转过身来，张开双臂，似乎要拥抱他。然而，她立刻又把它们拉了回来，并把胳膊肘并拢，双手捂住脸，浑身颤抖起来，直到她下面的床都摇晃起来。

‘In God’s name what does this mean?’ Harker cried out. ‘Dr. Seward, Dr. Van Helsing, what is it? What has happened? What is wrong? Mina, dear what is it? What does that blood mean? My God, my God! Has it come to this!’ And, raising himself to his knees, he beat his hands wildly together. ‘Good God help us! Help her! Oh, help her!’
“看在上帝的份上，这是什么意思？”哈克喊道。 ‘博士。苏厄德，范海辛博士，这是什么？发生了什么事？怎么了？米娜，亲爱的，这是什么？那血是什么意思？我的上帝，我的上帝！难道已经到了这个地步了吗？”说着，他跪了起来，双手拼命地拍打着。 ‘上帝啊，帮助我们吧！帮助她！哦，帮帮她吧！

With a quick movement he jumped from bed, and began to pull on his clothes, all the man in him awake at the need for instant exertion. ‘What has happened? Tell me all about it!’ he cried without pausing. ‘Dr. Van Helsing you love Mina, I know. Oh, do something to save her. It cannot have gone too far yet. Guard her while I look for him!’
他迅速从床上跳起来，开始穿衣服，他整个人都清醒了，因为需要立即用力。 '发生了什么事？告诉我一切！”他不停地喊道。 ‘博士。范海辛你爱米娜，我知道。噢，做点什么来拯救她吧。它还不能走得太远。我去找他的时候保护她！”

His wife, through her terror and horror and distress, saw some sure danger to him. Instantly forgetting her own grief, she seized hold of him and cried out.
他的妻子通过她的恐惧、恐惧和痛苦，看到了他面临的某种确定的危险。她瞬间忘记了自己的悲伤，一把抓住他，放声大哭。

‘No! No! Jonathan, you must not leave me. I have suffered enough tonight, God knows, without the dread of his harming you. You must stay with me. Stay with these friends who will watch over you!’ Her expression became frantic as she spoke. And, he yielding to her, she pulled him down sitting on the bedside, and clung to him fiercely.
'不！不！乔纳森，你不能离开我。上帝知道，今晚我已经受够了痛苦，不用担心他会伤害你。你必须留在我身边。和这些会守护你的朋友待在一起！”说着，她的表情变得疯狂。他屈服于她，她把他拉到床边坐下，狠狠地抱住他。

Van Helsing and I tried to calm them both. The Professor held up his golden crucifix, and said with wonderful calmness, ‘Do not fear, my dear. We are here, and whilst this is close to you no foul thing can approach. You are safe for tonight, and we must be calm and take counsel together.’
范海辛和我试图让他们俩平静下来。教授举起他的金色十字架，极其平静地说：“不要害怕，亲爱的。”我们在这里，虽然离你很近，但任何邪恶的东西都无法接近。今晚你是安全的，我们必须保持冷静，共同商议。”

She shuddered and was silent, holding down her head on her husband’s breast. When she raised it, his white nightrobe was stained with blood where her lips had touched, and where the thin open wound in the neck had sent forth drops. The instant she saw it she drew back, with a low wail, and whispered, amidst choking sobs.
她颤抖着，一言不发，把头埋在丈夫的胸前。当她举起它时，他的白色睡袍在她嘴唇接触过的地方沾满了血迹，脖子上细小的开放性伤口流出了血滴。她一看到它，就向后退了一步，低声哀号，哽咽地低声说道。

‘Unclean, unclean! I must touch him or kiss him no more. Oh, that it should be that it is I who am now his worst enemy, and whom he may have most cause to fear.’
‘不干净，不干净！我必须不再触摸他或亲吻他。哦，但愿我现在是他最大的敌人，也是他最有理由害怕的人。

To this he spoke out resolutely, ‘Nonsense, Mina. It is a shame to me to hear such a word. I would not hear it of you. And I shall not hear it from you. May God judge me by my deserts, and punish me with more bitter suffering than even this hour, if by any act or will of mine anything ever come between us!’
对此他坚决地说：“胡说，米娜。”听到这样的话我感到很羞愧。我不会听到你这样说。我不会从你那里听到这些。如果由于我的任何行为或意志而导致我们之间发生任何事情，愿上帝根据我的应得来审判我，并以比此时更痛苦的痛苦来惩罚我！

He put out his arms and folded her to his breast. And for a while she lay there sobbing. He looked at us over her bowed head, with eyes that blinked damply above his quivering nostrils. His mouth was set as steel.
他伸出双臂，将她抱在胸前。她躺在那里抽泣了一会儿。他低着头看着我们，颤抖的鼻孔上方湿漉漉的眼睛眨着。他的嘴像钢铁一样。

After a while her sobs became less frequent and more faint, and then he said to me, speaking with a studied calmness which I felt tried his nervous power to the utmost.
过了一会儿，她的抽泣变得越来越少，也越来越微弱，然后他对我说道，语气里刻意保持着平静，我觉得这对他的神经力量来说是一种极大的考验。

‘And now, Dr. Seward, tell me all about it. Too well I know the broad fact. Tell me all that has been.’
“现在，苏厄德博士，请告诉我这一切。”我太了解广泛的事实了。告诉我发生的一切。

I told him exactly what had happened and he listened with seeming impassiveness, but his nostrils twitched and his eyes blazed as I told how the ruthless hands of the Count had held his wife in that terrible and horrid position, with her mouth to the open wound in his breast. It interested me, even at that moment, to see that whilst the face of white set passion worked convulsively over the bowed head, the hands tenderly and lovingly stroked the ruffled hair. Just as I had finished, Quincey and Godalming knocked at the door. They entered in obedience to our summons. Van Helsing looked at me questioningly. I understood him to mean if we were to take advantage of their coming to divert if possible the thoughts of the unhappy husband and wife from each other and from themselves. So on nodding acquiescence to him he asked them what they had seen or done. To which Lord Godalming answered.
我准确地告诉了他发生了什么事，他似乎冷漠地听着，但当我讲述伯爵无情的双手如何将他的妻子置于那种可怕而可怕的位置，让她的嘴贴着开放的伤口时，他的鼻孔抽搐，眼睛闪闪发光。在他的胸中。即使在那一刻，我也很感兴趣，看到那张苍白、充满激情的脸在低下的头上抽搐着，双手温柔而充满爱意地抚摸着凌乱的头发。我刚说完，昆西和戈达明就敲门了。他们遵照我们的召唤进来了。范海辛疑惑地看着我。我理解他的意思是，如果可能的话，我们是否要利用他们的到来来转移这对不幸的丈夫和妻子对彼此和他们自己的想法。于是，他向他点头表示默许，然后问他们看到了什么或做了什么。戈达尔明勋爵对此做出了回答。

‘I could not see him anywhere in the passage, or in any of our rooms. I looked in the study but, though he had been there, he had gone. He had, however …’ He stopped suddenly, looking at the poor drooping figure on the bed.
“我在走廊的任何地方都看不到他，在我们的任何房间里都看不到他。我看了看书房，虽然他曾在那里，但他已经走了。然而他……”他突然停了下来，看着床上可怜的颓然的身影。

Van Helsing said gravely, ‘Go on, friend Arthur. We want here no more concealments. Our hope now is in knowing all. Tell freely!’
范海辛严肃地说：“继续吧，朋友亚瑟。”我们不想再有任何隐瞒。我们现在的希望是了解一切。自由地讲述吧！

So Art went on, ‘He had been there, and though it could only have been for a few seconds, he made rare hay of the place. All the manuscript had been burned, and the blue flames were flickering amongst the white ashes. The cylinders of your phonograph too were thrown on the fire, and the wax had helped the flames.’
阿特继续说道：“他曾在那里，虽然只待了几秒钟，但他却对这个地方产生了罕见的兴趣。”所有的手稿都被烧毁了，蓝色的火焰在白色的灰烬中闪烁。你的留声机的圆筒也被扔进火里，蜡助长了火焰。

Here I interrupted. ‘Thank God there is the other copy in the safe!’
说到这里我打断了。 “感谢上帝，保险箱里还有另一份副本！”

His face lit for a moment, but fell again as he went on. ‘I ran downstairs then, but could see no sign of him. I looked into Renfield’s room, but there was no trace there except …’ Again he paused.
他的脸色闪过一瞬间的光芒，但随着他继续往下走，他的脸又沉了下来。 “然后我跑下楼，但没有看到他的踪影。我朝雷菲尔德的房间看了看，但那里没有任何痕迹，除了……”他再次停了下来。

‘Go on,’ said Harker hoarsely. So he bowed his head and moistening his lips with his tongue, added, ‘except that the poor fellow is dead.’
“继续，”哈克沙哑地说。于是他低下头，用舌头润湿嘴唇，补充道：“除非这个可怜的家伙已经死了。”

Mrs. Harker raised her head, looking from one to the other of us she said solemnly, ‘God’s will be done!’
哈克夫人抬起头，看着我们中的一个人，又看看另一个人，她庄严地说：“上帝的旨意一定会实现！”

I could not but feel that Art was keeping back something. But, as I took it that it was with a purpose, I said nothing.
我不禁感觉到阿特在隐瞒着什么。但是，因为我认为这是有目的的，所以我什么也没说。

Van Helsing turned to Morris and asked, ‘And you, friend Quincey, have you any to tell?’
范海辛转向莫里斯问道：“昆西朋友，你有什么要告诉的吗？”

‘A little,’ he answered. ‘It may be much eventually, but at present I can’t say. I thought it well to know if possible where the Count would go when he left the house. I did not see him, but I saw a bat rise from Renfield’s window, and flap westward. I expected to see him in some shape go back to Carfax, but he evidently sought some other lair. He will not be back tonight, for the sky is reddening in the east, and the dawn is close. We must work tomorrow!’
“有一点，”他回答道。 “最终可能会很多，但目前我还不能说。我认为如果可能的话，最好知道伯爵离开家后会去哪里。我没有看到他，但我看到一只蝙蝠从伦菲尔德的窗户升起，向西飞去。我原以为他会以某种形式回到卡法克斯，但他显然在寻找其他巢穴。今晚他不会回来了，因为东方的天空正在变红，黎明即将来临。我们明天必须工作！”

He said the latter words through his shut teeth. For a space of perhaps a couple of minutes there was silence, and I could fancy that I could hear the sound of our hearts beating.
后一句话是他咬紧牙关说出来的。大约有几分钟的时间，周围一片寂静，我想象着我能听到我们心跳的声音。

Then Van Helsing said, placing his hand tenderly on Mrs. Harker’s head, ‘And now, Madam Mina, poor dear, dear, Madam Mina, tell us exactly what happened. God knows that I do not want that you be pained, but it is need that we know all. For now more than ever has all work to be done quick and sharp, and in deadly earnest. The day is close to us that must end all, if it may be so, and now is the chance that we may live and learn.’
然后范海辛说，把他的手温柔地放在哈克夫人的头上，“现在，米娜女士，可怜的亲爱的，亲爱的米娜女士，告诉我们究竟发生了什么。”上帝知道我不想让你痛苦，但我们需要知道一切。现在，所有工作比以往任何时候都更需要快速、敏捷、极其认真地完成。结束一切的日子已经临近了，如果可能的话，现在就是我们生活和学习的机会。

The poor dear lady shivered, and I could see the tension of her nerves as she clasped her husband closer to her and bent her head lower and lower still on his breast. Then she raised her head proudly, and held out one hand to Van Helsing who took it in his, and after stooping and kissing it reverently, held it fast. The other hand was locked in that of her husband, who held his other arm thrown round her protectingly. After a pause in which she was evidently ordering her thoughts, she began.
这位可怜的亲爱的女士浑身发抖，当她把丈夫抱得更紧，把头越来越低地贴在他的胸前时，我可以看到她神经的紧张。然后她自豪地抬起头，向范海辛伸出一只手，范海辛握住了她的手，弯腰恭敬地亲吻了它，然后紧紧握住了它。另一只手握在她丈夫的手上，丈夫用另一只手臂保护着她。显然她在整理思绪，停顿了一会儿，然后她开始说道。

‘I took the sleeping draught which you had so kindly given me, but for a long time it did not act. I seemed to become more wakeful, and myriads of horrible fancies began to crowd in upon my mind. All of them connected with death, and vampires, with blood, and pain, and trouble.’ Her husband involuntarily groaned as she turned to him and said lovingly, ‘Do not fret, dear. You must be brave and strong, and help me through the horrible task. If you only knew what an effort it is to me to tell of this fearful thing at all, you would understand how much I need your help. Well, I saw I must try to help the medicine to its work with my will, if it was to do me any good, so I resolutely set myself to sleep. Sure enough sleep must soon have come to me, for I remember no more. Jonathan coming in had not waked me, for he lay by my side when next I remember. There was in the room the same thin white mist that I had before noticed. But I forget now if you know of this. You will find it in my diary which I shall show you later. I felt the same vague terror which had come to me before and the same sense of some presence. I turned to wake Jonathan, but found that he slept so soundly that it seemed as if it was he who had taken the sleeping draught, and not I. I tried, but I could not wake him. This caused me a great fear, and I looked around terrified. Then indeed, my heart sank within me. Beside the bed, as if he had stepped out of the mist, or rather as if the mist had turned into his figure, for it had entirely disappeared, stood a tall, thin man, all in black. I knew him at once from the description of the others. The waxen face, the high aquiline nose, on which the light fell in a thin white line, the parted red lips, with the sharp white teeth showing between, and the red eyes that I had seemed to see in the sunset on the windows of St. Mary’s Church at Whitby. I knew, too, the red scar on his forehead where Jonathan had struck him. For an instant my heart stood still, and I would have screamed out, only that I was paralyzed. In the pause he spoke in a sort of keen, cutting whisper, pointing as he spoke to Jonathan.
“我服用了你好心给我的安眠药，但很长一段时间都没有作用。我似乎变得更加清醒，无数可怕的幻想开始涌入我的脑海。所有这些都与死亡、吸血鬼、鲜血、痛苦和麻烦有关。”当她转身对丈夫温柔地说：“别担心，亲爱的。”你必须勇敢、坚强，帮助我完成这项可怕的任务。如果你知道我要付出多大的努力才能讲述这件可怕的事情，你就会明白我是多么需要你的帮助。好吧，我知道如果这对我有什么好处的话，我必须尽力用我的意志来帮助药物发挥作用，所以我毅然开始睡觉。果然我很快就睡着了，因为我不记得了。乔纳森进来并没有吵醒我，因为当我下次记事时，他就躺在我身边。房间里弥漫着我之前注意到的同样薄薄的白雾。但我现在忘了你是否知道这件事。你会在我的日记里找到它，我稍后会给你看。我感到了以前出现过的那种模糊的恐惧和某种存在的感觉。我转身想叫醒乔纳森，却发现他睡得那么香，似乎是他喝了安眠药，而不是我。我尝试了，但无法叫醒他。这让我产生了极大的恐惧，我惊恐地环顾四周。确实，我的心沉了下去。床边，仿佛是从雾气中走出来，或者说是雾气变成了他的身影，完全消失了，站着一个高瘦的男人，一身黑衣。从其他人的描述中我立刻就认出了他。 蜡色的脸，高高的鹰钩鼻，光线落在上面，形成一条细细的白线，张开的红唇，露出锋利的白牙，还有我在夕阳下的窗户上看到的红眼睛。惠特比的圣玛丽教堂。我也知道他额头上被乔纳森击中的红色疤痕。一瞬间我的心停止了跳动，我差点尖叫出来，只是我全身瘫痪了。在停顿期间，他用一种尖锐、尖锐的低语说道，一边指着乔纳森。

‘‘Silence! If you make a sound I shall take him and dash his brains out before your very eyes.’ I was appalled and was too bewildered to do or say anything. With a mocking smile, he placed one hand upon my shoulder and, holding me tight, bared my throat with the other, saying as he did so, ‘First, a little refreshment to reward my exertions. You may as well be quiet. It is not the first time, or the second, that your veins have appeased my thirst!’ I was bewildered, and strangely enough, I did not want to hinder him. I suppose it is a part of the horrible curse that such is, when his touch is on his victim. And oh, my God, my God, pity me! He placed his reeking lips upon my throat!’ Her husband groaned again. She clasped his hand harder, and looked at him pityingly, as if he were the injured one, and went on.
''安静！如果你发出声音，我就会把他抓起来，当着你的面把他的大脑砸碎。”我感到震惊，不知所措，无法做任何事或说任何话。他带着嘲讽的微笑，一只手搭在我的肩膀上，另一只手紧紧地抱住我，露出我的喉咙，一边说：“首先，给我一点茶点，犒劳一下我的辛苦。”你也可以安静点。你的血管缓解了我的干渴，这不是第一次，也不是第二次了！”我很困惑，奇怪的是，我不想阻止他。我想，当他触摸受害者时，这就是可怕诅咒的一部分。哦，我的上帝，我的上帝，可怜我吧！他把发臭的嘴唇放在我的喉咙上！”她丈夫再次呻吟。她更用力地握着他的手，怜悯地看着他，仿佛他就是受伤的人，然后继续说道。

‘I felt my strength fading away, and I was in a half swoon. How long this horrible thing lasted I know not, but it seemed that a long time must have passed before he took his foul, awful, sneering mouth away. I saw it drip with the fresh blood!’ The remembrance seemed for a while to overpower her, and she drooped and would have sunk down but for her husband’s sustaining arm. With a great effort she recovered herself and went on.
“我感觉自己的力气正在消失，我陷入了半昏迷状态。我不知道这种可怕的事情持续了多久，但似乎一定已经过去了很长一段时间，他才收回那张肮脏、可怕、冷嘲热讽的嘴。我看到它滴着新鲜的血！”回忆似乎有一段时间压倒了她，她垂下了身子，如果没有她丈夫的手臂支撑，她就会陷下去。她费了很大的力气才恢复过来，继续前行。

‘Then he spoke to me mockingly, ‘And so you, like the others, would play your brains against mine. You would help these men to hunt me and frustrate me in my design! You know now, and they know in part already, and will know in full before long, what it is to cross my path. They should have kept their energies for use closer to home. Whilst they played wits against me, against me who commanded nations, and intrigued for them, and fought for them, hundreds of years before they were born, I was countermining them. And you, their best beloved one, are now to me, flesh of my flesh, blood of my blood, kin of my kin, my bountiful wine-press for a while, and shall be later on my companion and my helper. You shall be avenged in turn, for not one of them but shall minister to your needs. But as yet you are to be punished for what you have done. You have aided in thwarting me. Now you shall come to my call. When my brain says ‘Come!’ to you, you shall cross land or sea to do my bidding. And to that end this!’
“然后他嘲笑地对我说，‘所以你和其他人一样，会用你的大脑来对抗我。你会帮助这些人追捕我并挫败我的设计！你现在知道了，他们已经部分知道了，不久之后就会完全知道，穿过我的道路是什么感觉。他们应该把精力留在离家较近的地方使用。当他们与我斗智斗勇时，当我在他们出生前数百年，与我指挥国家、为他们谋算、为他们作战时，我却在反埋伏他们。而你，他们最心爱的人，现在对我来说，是我的肉中之肉，我的血中之血，我的亲中之亲，暂时是我丰富的压榨酒，以后将成为我的伴侣和帮助者。你将依次受到报仇，因为他们中的任何一个都不会满足你的需要。但到目前为止，你还是要为你所做的事情受到惩罚。你帮了我的忙。现在你应该听从我的召唤。当我的大脑对你说“来吧！”时，你将穿越陆地或海洋来执行我的命令。为此！’

‘With that he pulled open his shirt, and with his long sharp nails opened a vein in his breast. When the blood began to spurt out, he took my hands in one of his, holding them tight, and with the other seized my neck and pressed my mouth to the wound, so that I must either suffocate or swallow some to the … Oh, my God! My God! What have I done? What have I done to deserve such a fate, I who have tried to walk in meekness and righteousness all my days. God pity me! Look down on a poor soul in worse than mortal peril. And in mercy pity those to whom she is dear!’ Then she began to rub her lips as though to cleanse them from pollution.
”说着，他拉开了衬衫，用长而锋利的指甲在胸前划开了一条静脉。当鲜血开始喷出时，他一只手握住我的手，紧紧地握着，另一只手抓住我的脖子，把我的嘴压在伤口上，这样我要么窒息，要么吞下一些……哦，我的上帝！我的上帝！我做了什么？我做了什么，让我遭受这样的命运，我一生都试图以温柔和公义行事。老天怜悯我吧！瞧不起一个比致命危险更糟糕的可怜灵魂。并怜悯那些她所亲爱的人！”然后她开始摩擦嘴唇，仿佛要清除嘴唇上的污染。

As she was telling her terrible story, the eastern sky began to quicken, and everything became more and more clear. Harker was still and quiet. But over his face, as the awful narrative went on, came a grey look which deepened and deepened in the morning light, till when the first red streak of the coming dawn shot up, the flesh stood darkly out against the whitening hair.
当她讲述着她可怕的故事时，东方的天空开始加速，一切都变得越来越清晰。哈克一动不动，安静。但随着可怕的叙述继续进行，他的脸上出现了一种灰色的表情，这种灰色的表情在晨光中越来越深，直到黎明的第一道红色条纹突然升起，在白发的映衬下，皮肤显得黝黑。

We have arranged that one of us is to stay within call of the unhappy pair till we can meet together and arrange about taking action.
我们已经安排其中一个人留在这对不幸的人身边，直到我们能够见面并安排采取行动。

Of this I am sure. The sun rises today on no more miserable house in all the great round of its daily course.
对此我确信。今天，太阳在其日常的大循环中升起，照在这栋破房子上。

Chapter 22
第22章

JONATHAN HARKER’S JOURNAL
乔纳森·哈克的日记

3 October.—As I must do something or go mad, I write this diary. It is now six o’clock, and we are to meet in the study in half an hour and take something to eat, for Dr. Van Helsing and Dr. Seward are agreed that if we do not eat we cannot work our best. Our best will be, God knows, required today. I must keep writing at every chance, for I dare not stop to think. All, big and little, must go down. Perhaps at the end the little things may teach us most. The teaching, big or little, could not have landed Mina or me anywhere worse than we are today. However, we must trust and hope. Poor Mina told me just now, with the tears running down her dear cheeks, that it is in trouble and trial that our faith is tested. That we must keep on trusting, and that God will aid us up to the end. The end! Oh my God! What end?… To work! To work!
10 月 3 日——因为我必须做点什么，否则就会发疯，所以我写了这本日记。现在已经六点了，半小时后我们要在书房见面并吃点东西，因为范海辛博士和苏厄德博士一致认为，如果我们不吃东西，我们就无法做到最好。天知道，今天我们需要做到最好。我必须一有机会就继续写下去，因为我不敢停下来思考。一切，无论大小，都必须倒塌。也许到最后，小事可以教会我们最多的东西。这些教导，无论大小，都不可能让米娜或我比今天更糟糕。然而，我们必须相信并希望。可怜的米娜刚才泪流满面地告诉我，我们的信仰是在困难和考验中经受考验的。我们必须继续相信，上帝会帮助我们直到最后。结束！我的天啊！结局是什么？……去工作！上班！

When Dr. Van Helsing and Dr. Seward had come back from seeing poor Renfield, we went gravely into what was to be done. First, Dr. Seward told us that when he and Dr. Van Helsing had gone down to the room below they had found Renfield lying on the floor, all in a heap. His face was all bruised and crushed in, and the bones of the neck were broken.
当范海辛医生和苏厄德医生看望可怜的伦菲尔德回来后，我们严肃地讨论了要做的事情。首先，苏厄德博士告诉我们，当他和范海辛博士下楼到楼下的房间时，他们发现雷菲尔德躺在地板上，堆成一堆。他的脸全是淤青，被压碎了，脖子上的骨头也被折断了。

Dr. Seward asked the attendant who was on duty in the passage if he had heard anything. He said that he had been sitting down, he confessed to half dozing, when he heard loud voices in the room, and then Renfield had called out loudly several times, ‘God! God! God!’ After that there was a sound of falling, and when he entered the room he found him lying on the floor, face down, just as the doctors had seen him. Van Helsing asked if he had heard ‘voices’ or ‘a voice,’ and he said he could not say. That at first it had seemed to him as if there were two, but as there was no one in the room it could have been only one. He could swear to it, if required, that the word ‘God’ was spoken by the patient.
苏厄德医生询问通道里值班的服务员是否听到任何声音。他说他当时正坐下来，承认自己在半睡半醒之间，突然听到房间里有很大的声音，然后雷菲尔德大声喊了好几次：“天啊！”上帝！天哪！’之后传来了倒地的声音，当他走进房间时，他发现他脸朝下躺在地板上，就像医生看到的那样。范海辛问他是否听到了“声音”或“声音”，他说他不能说。起初他觉得好像有两个，但由于房间里没有人，所以可能只有一个。如果需要的话，他可以发誓，“上帝”这个词是病人说出的。

Dr. Seward said to us, when we were alone, that he did not wish to go into the matter. The question of an inquest had to be considered, and it would never do to put forward the truth, as no one would believe it. As it was, he thought that on the attendant’s evidence he could give a certificate of death by misadventure in falling from bed. In case the coroner should demand it, there would be a formal inquest, necessarily to the same result.
当我们单独在一起时，苏厄德博士对我们说，他不想谈论这件事。审讯的问题必须要考虑，而提出真相是不行的，因为没人会相信。事实上，他认为根据侍者的证据，他可以开出因意外坠床而死亡的证明。如果验尸官提出要求，就会进行正式调查，结果必然是相同的。

When the question began to be discussed as to what should be our next step, the very first thing we decided was that Mina should be in full confidence. That nothing of any sort, no matter how painful, should be kept from her. She herself agreed as to its wisdom, and it was pitiful to see her so brave and yet so sorrowful, and in such a depth of despair.
当开始讨论我们下一步应该做什么时，我们决定的第一件事就是对米娜完全保密。任何事情，无论多么痛苦，都不应该瞒着她。她自己也同意这是明智的，看到她如此勇敢却又如此悲伤，陷入如此深的绝望，真是可怜。

‘There must be no concealment,’ she said. ‘Alas! We have had too much already. And besides there is nothing in all the world that can give me more pain than I have already endured, than I suffer now! Whatever may happen, it must be of new hope or of new courage to me!’
“绝不能有任何隐瞒，”她说。 '唉！我们已经承受得太多了。此外，世界上没有什么比我已经忍受过的、比我现在所遭受的痛苦更痛苦的了！无论发生什么，对我来说一定是新的希望或新的勇气！

Van Helsing was looking at her fixedly as she spoke, and said, suddenly but quietly, ‘But dear Madam Mina, are you not afraid. Not for yourself, but for others from yourself, after what has happened?’
范海辛一边说话，一边盯着她，突然平静地说：“但是亲爱的米娜女士，你不害怕吗？”不是为了自己，而是为了别人，在发生了什么事之后？

Her face grew set in its lines, but her eyes shone with the devotion of a martyr as she answered, ‘Ah no! For my mind is made up!’
她的脸色变得僵硬，但她的眼睛却闪烁着烈士般的虔诚，她回答道：“啊不！因为我已经下定决心了！

‘To what?’ he asked gently, whilst we were all very still, for each in our own way we had a sort of vague idea of what she meant.
“什么？”他温柔地问道，而我们都一动不动，因为我们每个人都以自己的方式模糊地理解了她的意思。

Her answer came with direct simplicity, as though she was simply stating a fact, ‘Because if I find in myself, and I shall watch keenly for it, a sign of harm to any that I love, I shall die!’
她的回答非常简单，就好像她只是在陈述一个事实，“因为如果我发现自己身上有伤害我所爱的人的迹象，并且我会密切关注它，我就会死！”

‘You would not kill yourself?’ he asked, hoarsely.
“你不会自杀吗？”他嘶哑地问道。

‘I would. If there were no friend who loved me, who would save me such a pain, and so desperate an effort!’ She looked at him meaningly as she spoke.
'我会。如果没有一个爱我的朋友，谁会帮我省去这么痛苦、这么拼命的努力呢！”她说着，意味深长地看着他。

He was sitting down, but now he rose and came close to her and put his hand on her head as he said solemnly. ‘My child, there is such an one if it were for your good. For myself I could hold it in my account with God to find such an euthanasia for you, even at this moment if it were best. Nay, were it safe! But my child …’
他本来是坐着的，现在却站了起来，走到了她的身边，把手放在她的头上，郑重的说道。 ‘我的孩子，如果是为了你好的话，就有这样一个人。对于我自己来说，我可以向上帝算账，为你找到这样的安乐死，即使是在此时此刻，如果这是最好的的话。不，安全吗？但我的孩子……”

For a moment he seemed choked, and a great sob rose in his throat. He gulped it down and went on, ‘There are here some who would stand between you and death. You must not die. You must not die by any hand, but least of all your own. Until the other, who has fouled your sweet life, is true dead you must not die. For if he is still with the quick Undead, your death would make you even as he is. No, you must live! You must struggle and strive to live, though death would seem a boon unspeakable. You must fight Death himself, though he come to you in pain or in joy. By the day, or the night, in safety or in peril! On your living soul I charge you that you do not die. Nay, nor think of death, till this great evil be past.’
有一瞬间，他似乎被噎住了，喉咙里发出一声抽泣。他咽了下去，继续说道：“这里有人会挡在你和死亡之间。”你一定不能死。你不能死于任何人之手，但最不能死于你自己之手。在那个玷污了你甜蜜生活的人真正死去之前，你一定不能死。因为如果他仍然和快速的亡灵在一起，你的死就会让你变得和他一样。不，你必须活下去！你必须奋斗，努力活下去，尽管死亡似乎是一种无法形容的恩惠。你必须与死亡本人战斗，尽管他是带着痛苦还是带着喜悦来到你身边。无论白天还是黑夜，无论是安全还是危险！我以你活着的灵魂嘱咐你，不要死。不，在这场大灾难过去之前，也别想死。”

The poor dear grew white as death, and shook and shivered, as I have seen a quicksand shake and shiver at the incoming of the tide. We were all silent. We could do nothing. At length she grew more calm and turning to him said sweetly, but oh so sorrowfully, as she held out her hand, ‘I promise you, my dear friend, that if God will let me live, I shall strive to do so. Till, if it may be in His good time, this horror may have passed away from me.’
可怜的亲爱的脸色苍白得像死人一样，浑身颤抖、颤抖，就像我见过潮水来袭时流沙颤抖一样。我们都沉默了。我们无能为力。最后，她变得更加平静，转向他，伸出手，甜蜜但又悲伤地说道：“我向你保证，我亲爱的朋友，如果上帝让我活下去，我会努力做到这一点。”直到，如果时机成熟的话，这种恐惧可能会从我身上消失。”

She was so good and brave that we all felt that our hearts were strengthened to work and endure for her, and we began to discuss what we were to do. I told her that she was to have all the papers in the safe, and all the papers or diaries and phonographs we might hereafter use, and was to keep the record as she had done before. She was pleased with the prospect of anything to do, if ‘pleased’ could be used in connection with so grim an interest.
她是如此的善良和勇敢，让我们都感到自己的心更加坚强，可以为她工作和忍耐，我们开始讨论我们要做什么。我告诉她，她要把所有的文件，以及我们以后可能使用的所有文件或日记和留声机放在保险箱里，并像以前一样保存记录。如果“高兴”可以用来表达如此严峻的兴趣，她对任何事情的前景感到高兴。

As usual Van Helsing had thought ahead of everyone else, and was prepared with an exact ordering of our work.
像往常一样，范海辛先于其他人思考，并为我们的工作制定了准确的顺序。

‘It is perhaps well,’ he said, ‘that at our meeting after our visit to Carfax we decided not to do anything with the earth boxes that lay there. Had we done so, the Count must have guessed our purpose, and would doubtless have taken measures in advance to frustrate such an effort with regard to the others. But now he does not know our intentions. Nay, more, in all probability, he does not know that such a power exists to us as can sterilize his lairs, so that he cannot use them as of old.
“也许很好，”他说，“在我们访问卡法克斯后的会议上，我们决定不对那里的土箱做任何事情。如果我们这样做，伯爵一定会猜到我们的目的，并且毫无疑问会提前采取措施挫败其他人的这种努力。但现在他不知道我们的意图。不仅如此，更有可能的是，他不知道我们存在着这样一种力量，可以对他的巢穴进行消毒，使他不能像以前那样使用它们。

‘We are now so much further advanced in our knowledge as to their disposition that, when we have examined the house in Piccadilly, we may track the very last of them. Today then, is ours, and in it rests our hope. The sun that rose on our sorrow this morning guards us in its course. Until it sets tonight, that monster must retain whatever form he now has. He is confined within the limitations of his earthly envelope. He cannot melt into thin air nor disappear through cracks or chinks or crannies. If he go through a doorway, he must open the door like a mortal. And so we have this day to hunt out all his lairs and sterilize them. So we shall, if we have not yet catch him and destroy him, drive him to bay in some place where the catching and the destroying shall be, in time, sure.’
“我们现在对他们的性格有了更深入的了解，当我们检查皮卡迪利的房子时，我们可能会追踪到最后的他们。那么，今天是我们的今天，我们的希望就在今天。今天早上，太阳在我们的悲伤中升起，在它的轨道上守护着我们。在今晚落下之前，那个怪物必须保持他现在的形态。他被限制在尘世的范围内。他无法融化在稀薄的空气中，也无法通过裂缝、裂缝或缝隙消失。如果他穿过门口，他必须像凡人一样打开门。所以我们这一天要找出他所有的巢穴并对其进行消毒。因此，如果我们还没有抓住他并消灭他，就将他赶到某个地方，在那里，我们一定会及时抓住并消灭他。

Here I started up for I could not contain myself at the thought that the minutes and seconds so preciously laden with Mina’s life and happiness were flying from us, since whilst we talked action was impossible. But Van Helsing held up his hand warningly.
说到这里，我惊恐万分，因为一想到承载着米娜的生命和幸福的珍贵的分分秒秒就从我们身边飞逝而过，我就无法控制自己，因为在我们谈话的同时，采取行动是不可能的。但范海辛警告地举起了手。

‘Nay, friend Jonathan,’ he said, ‘in this, the quickest way home is the longest way, so your proverb say. We shall all act and act with desperate quick, when the time has come. But think, in all probable the key of the situation is in that house in Piccadilly. The Count may have many houses which he has bought. Of them he will have deeds of purchase, keys and other things. He will have paper that he write on. He will have his book of cheques. There are many belongings that he must have somewhere. Why not in this place so central, so quiet, where he come and go by the front or the back at all hours, when in the very vast of the traffic there is none to notice. We shall go there and search that house. And when we learn what it holds, then we do what our friend Arthur call, in his phrases of hunt ‘stop the earths’ and so we run down our old fox, so? Is it not?’
“不，朋友乔纳森，”他说，“在这方面，最快的回家之路就是最长的路，正如你的谚语所说。当时机成熟时，我们所有人都将不顾一切地迅速行动。但想一想，情况的关键很可能就在皮卡迪利的那栋房子里。伯爵可能有很多他买的房子。其中他将拥有购买凭证、钥匙和其他东西。他将有一张可以写字的纸。他会有他的支票簿。他一定有很多东西在某个地方。为什么不在这个如此中心、如此安静的地方，他随时都在前面或后面来来往往，而在车水马龙的交通中却没有人注意到。我们要去那里搜查那所房子。当我们了解它的内容时，我们就会按照我们的朋友亚瑟所说的那样做，用他的狩猎短语“阻止地球”，然后我们就跑掉了我们的老狐狸，所以呢？不是吗？

‘Then let us come at once,’ I cried, ‘we are wasting the precious, precious time!’
“那我们就赶紧来吧，”我喊道，“我们正在浪费宝贵的时间！”

The Professor did not move, but simply said, ‘And how are we to get into that house in Piccadilly?’
教授没有动，只是问道：“我们怎样才能进入皮卡迪利大街的那栋房子呢？”

‘Any way!’ I cried. ‘We shall break in if need be.’
“无论如何！”我喊道。 “如果需要的话我们会闯入的。”

‘And your police? Where will they be, and what will they say?’
‘那你们的警察呢？他们会在哪里，他们会说什么？

I was staggered, but I knew that if he wished to delay he had a good reason for it. So I said, as quietly as I could, ‘Don’t wait more than need be. You know, I am sure, what torture I am in.’
我很震惊，但我知道如果他想拖延，他有充分的理由。所以我尽可能安静地说，‘不要等太久。我确信你知道我正遭受着怎样的折磨。

‘Ah, my child, that I do. And indeed there is no wish of me to add to your anguish. But just think, what can we do, until all the world be at movement. Then will come our time. I have thought and thought, and it seems to me that the simplest way is the best of all. Now we wish to get into the house, but we have no key. Is it not so?’ I nodded.
‘啊，我的孩子，我愿意。事实上，我并不想增加你的痛苦。但想想，我们能做什么，直到整个世界都开始运转。然后我们的时间就到了。我想了又想，在我看来，最简单的方法就是最好的方法。现在我们想进屋，但没有钥匙。是不是这样？”我点点头。

‘Now suppose that you were, in truth, the owner of that house, and could not still get in. And think there was to you no conscience of the housebreaker, what would you do?’
“现在假设你实际上是那所房子的主人，但仍然无法进入。并且认为你没有入室盗窃者的良心，你会怎么做？”

‘I should get a respectable locksmith, and set him to work to pick the lock for me.’
“我应该找一位受人尊敬的锁匠，让他帮我开锁。”

‘And your police, they would interfere, would they not?’
“而你们的警察，他们会干涉，不是吗？”

‘Oh no! Not if they knew the man was properly employed.’
'不好了！如果他们知道这个人有正当工作的话就不会。

‘Then,’ he looked at me as keenly as he spoke, ‘all that is in doubt is the conscience of the employer, and the belief of your policemen as to whether or not that employer has a good conscience or a bad one. Your police must indeed be zealous men and clever, oh so clever, in reading the heart, that they trouble themselves in such matter. No, no, my friend Jonathan, you go take the lock off a hundred empty houses in this your London, or of any city in the world, and if you do it as such things are rightly done, and at the time such things are rightly done, no one will interfere. I have read of a gentleman who owned a so fine house in London, and when he went for months of summer to Switzerland and lock up his house, some burglar come and broke window at back and got in. Then he went and made open the shutters in front and walk out and in through the door, before the very eyes of the police. Then he have an auction in that house, and advertise it, and put up big notice. And when the day come he sell off by a great auctioneer all the goods of that other man who own them. Then he go to a builder, and he sell him that house, making an agreement that he pull it down and take all away within a certain time. And your police and other authority help him all they can. And when that owner come back from his holiday in Switzerland he find only an empty hole where his house had been. This was all done en regle, and in our work we shall be en regle too. We shall not go so early that the policemen who have then little to think of, shall deem it strange. But we shall go after ten o’clock, when there are many about, and such things would be done were we indeed owners of the house.’
“那么，”他一边说话，一边敏锐地看着我，“唯一值得怀疑的就是雇主的良心，以及你们警察的信念，即雇主的良心是良心还是坏心。”你们的警察一定是热心的人，而且很聪明，噢，太聪明了，能读懂人心，才会在这样的事情上自找麻烦。不，不，我的朋友乔纳森，你去把你的伦敦或世界上任何一个城市的一百个空房子的锁打开，如果你这样做是正确的，而且当时这样的事情是正确的做对了，没有人会干涉。我读过一位绅士在伦敦拥有一栋非常漂亮的房子，当他在夏天去瑞士几个月并锁上他的房子时，一些窃贼进来打破了后面的窗户并进入了。然后他去打开了房子百叶窗在前面，在警察的眼前从门里进出。然后他在那所房子里进行拍卖，并做广告，并张贴大通知。当那一天到来时，他通过一位伟大的拍卖师卖掉了另一个拥有这些物品的人的所有物品。然后他去找建筑商，建筑商把房子卖给他，并达成协议，他在一定时间内将其拆除并全部拿走。你们的警察和其他当局会竭尽全力帮助他。当这位主人从瑞士度假回来时，他发现他的房子原来所在的地方只剩下一个空洞。这一切都是在规则中完成的，在我们的工作中我们也将在规则中。我们不能走得太早，以免那些没什么可想的警察觉得奇怪。但我们会在十点以后走，那时周围有很多人，如果我们确实是这所房子的主人，就会做这样的事情。

I could not but see how right he was and the terrible despair of Mina’s face became relaxed in thought. There was hope in such good counsel.
我不能不看出他是多么正确，米娜脸上可怕的绝望在思考中变得放松。如此好的忠告是有希望的。

Van Helsing went on, ‘When once within that house we may find more clues. At any rate some of us can remain there whilst the rest find the other places where there be more earth boxes, at Bermondsey and Mile End.’
范海辛继续说道，“一旦进入那所房子，我们可能会发现更多线索。”无论如何，我们中的一些人可以留在那里，而其余的人则可以找到其他有更多土箱的地方，比如伯蒙西和麦尔恩德。

Lord Godalming stood up. ‘I can be of some use here,’ he said. ‘I shall wire to my people to have horses and carriages where they will be most convenient.’
戈达尔明勋爵站了起来。 “我在这里可以有点用处，”他说。 “我将电告我的人民，让他们在最方便的地方拥有马匹和马车。”

‘Look here, old fellow,’ said Morris, ‘it is a capital idea to have all ready in case we want to go horse backing, but don’t you think that one of your snappy carriages with its heraldic adornments in a byway of Walworth or Mile End would attract too much attention for our purpose? It seems to me that we ought to take cabs when we go south or east. And even leave them somewhere near the neighbourhood we are going to.’
“看这里，老伙计，”莫里斯说，“万一准备好以防万一我们想骑马，这是一个很好的主意，但是你不认为你的一辆带有纹章装饰的时髦马车停在一条小路上吗？” Walworth 或 Mile End 会因为我们的目的而吸引太多关注吗？在我看来，我们去南方或东方时应该乘出租车。甚至把它们留在我们要去的社区附近的某个地方。

‘Friend Quincey is right!’ said the Professor. ‘His head is what you call in plane with the horizon. It is a difficult thing that we go to do, and we do not want no peoples to watch us if so it may.’
“昆西朋友是对的！”教授说。 “他的头就是你所说的与地平线处于同一平面的东西。我们要做的事情很困难，如果可能的话，我们不希望没有人看着我们。

Mina took a growing interest in everything and I was rejoiced to see that the exigency of affairs was helping her to forget for a time the terrible experience of the night. She was very, very pale, almost ghastly, and so thin that her lips were drawn away, showing her teeth in somewhat of prominence. I did not mention this last, lest it should give her needless pain, but it made my blood run cold in my veins to think of what had occurred with poor Lucy when the Count had sucked her blood. As yet there was no sign of the teeth growing sharper, but the time as yet was short, and there was time for fear.
米娜对一切都越来越感兴趣，我很高兴看到事情的紧急性正在帮助她暂时忘记当晚的可怕经历。她脸色非常非常苍白，几乎惨不忍睹，而且她瘦得嘴唇都拉开了，牙齿有些突出。我最后没有提到这一点，以免给她带来不必要的痛苦，但一想到伯爵吸了她的血后，可怜的露西身上发生的事情，我的血管就冷了。到目前为止，牙齿还没有变尖的迹象，但时间还很短，还有恐惧的时间。

When we came to the discussion of the sequence of our efforts and of the disposition of our forces, there were new sources of doubt. It was finally agreed that before starting for Piccadilly we should destroy the Count’s lair close at hand. In case he should find it out too soon, we should thus be still ahead of him in our work of destruction. And his presence in his purely material shape, and at his weakest, might give us some new clue.
当我们讨论我们的行动顺序和部队部署时，出现了新的疑问。最后大家一致认为，在出发前往皮卡迪利之前，我们应该摧毁附近伯爵的巢穴。万一他太早发现这一点，我们的破坏工作就应该领先于他。他以纯粹的物质形态出现，在他最虚弱的时候，可能会给我们一些新的线索。

As to the disposal of forces, it was suggested by the Professor that, after our visit to Carfax, we should all enter the house in Piccadilly. That the two doctors and I should remain there, whilst Lord Godalming and Quincey found the lairs at Walworth and Mile End and destroyed them. It was possible, if not likely, the Professor urged, that the Count might appear in Piccadilly during the day, and that if so we might be able to cope with him then and there. At any rate, we might be able to follow him in force. To this plan I strenuously objected, and so far as my going was concerned, for I said that I intended to stay and protect Mina. I thought that my mind was made up on the subject, but Mina would not listen to my objection. She said that there might be some law matter in which I could be useful. That amongst the Count’s papers might be some clue which I could understand out of my experience in Transylvania. And that, as it was, all the strength we could muster was required to cope with the Count’s extraordinary power. I had to give in, for Mina’s resolution was fixed. She said that it was the last hope for her that we should all work together.
至于兵力的部署，教授建议，我们参观完卡法克斯之后，就都进入皮卡迪利大街的房子里。两位医生和我应该留在那里，而戈达尔明勋爵和昆西则找到沃尔沃斯和麦尔恩德的巢穴并摧毁它们。教授敦促说，即使可能性不大，伯爵也有可能在白天出现在皮卡迪利大街，如果是这样的话，我们或许能够当场对付他。无论如何，我们也许能够强力追随他。对于这个计划，我极力反对，就我的离开而言，因为我说过我打算留下来保护米娜。我以为我已经下定决心了，但米娜不听我的反对。她说可能有一些法律问题我可以帮忙。伯爵的文件中可能有一些线索，我可以根据我在特兰西瓦尼亚的经历来理解。事实上，我们需要调动所有的力量来应对伯爵非凡的力量。我不得不屈服，因为米娜的决心已定。她说，我们大家一起努力，这是她最后的希望。

‘As for me,’ she said, ‘I have no fear. Things have been as bad as they can be. And whatever may happen must have in it some element of hope or comfort. Go, my husband! God can, if He wishes it, guard me as well alone as with any one present.’
“至于我，”她说，“我没有恐惧。”事情已经糟糕到了极点。无论发生什么，都必须包含一些希望或安慰的因素。走吧，我的丈夫！如果上帝愿意的话，他可以像在场的任何人一样保护我独自一人。

So I started up crying out, ‘Then in God’s name let us come at once, for we are losing time. The Count may come to Piccadilly earlier than we think.’
于是我开始喊道：‘那么看在上帝的份上，让我们立刻来吧，因为我们正在浪费时间。伯爵可能比我们想象的更早来到皮卡迪利。

‘Not so!’ said Van Helsing, holding up his hand.
“不是这样！”范海辛举起手说道。

‘But why?’ I asked.
“但是为什么呢？”我问。

‘Do you forget,’ he said, with actually a smile, ‘that last night he banqueted heavily, and will sleep late?’
“你忘了吗？”他实际上是笑着说，“昨晚他宴饮得很丰盛，睡得很晚？”

Did I forget! Shall I ever … can I ever! Can any of us ever forget that terrible scene! Mina struggled hard to keep her brave countenance, but the pain overmastered her and she put her hands before her face, and shuddered whilst she moaned. Van Helsing had not intended to recall her frightful experience. He had simply lost sight of her and her part in the affair in his intellectual effort.
难道我忘记了！我可以吗……我可以吗！我们谁能忘记那个可怕的场景！米娜努力保持着勇敢的表情，但疼痛压倒了她，她双手捂住脸，一边颤抖一边呻吟着。范海辛无意回忆起她可怕的经历。他只是在他的智力努力中忽视了她和她在这件事中所扮演的角色。

When it struck him what he said, he was horrified at his thoughtlessness and tried to comfort her.
当他意识到自己所说的话时，他对自己的轻率感到震惊，并试图安慰她。

‘Oh, Madam Mina,’ he said, ‘dear, dear, Madam Mina, alas! That I of all who so reverence you should have said anything so forgetful. These stupid old lips of mine and this stupid old head do not deserve so, but you will forget it, will you not?’ He bent low beside her as he spoke.
“哦，米娜女士，”他说，“亲爱的，亲爱的，米娜女士，唉！在所有如此尊敬你的人中，我竟然会说出如此健忘的话。我这些愚蠢的老嘴唇和这个愚蠢的老脑袋不应该这样，但你会忘记它，不是吗？”他说话时在她身边弯下腰。

She took his hand, and looking at him through her tears, said hoarsely, ‘No, I shall not forget, for it is well that I remember. And with it I have so much in memory of you that is sweet, that I take it all together. Now, you must all be going soon. Breakfast is ready, and we must all eat that we may be strong.’
她握着他的手，泪流满面地看着他，沙哑地说：“不，我不会忘记，因为我还记得。”有了它，我对你的记忆就变得如此甜蜜，以至于我把它们放在一起。现在，你们一定都快走了。早餐已经准备好了，我们都必须吃，这样我们才能坚强。”

Breakfast was a strange meal to us all. We tried to be cheerful and encourage each other, and Mina was the brightest and most cheerful of us. When it was over, Van Helsing stood up and said, ‘Now, my dear friends, we go forth to our terrible enterprise. Are we all armed, as we were on that night when first we visited our enemy’s lair. Armed against ghostly as well as carnal attack?’
早餐对我们所有人来说都是一顿奇怪的饭菜。我们努力保持快乐并互相鼓励，米娜是我们中最聪明、最快乐的一个。结束后，范海辛站起来说：“现在，我亲爱的朋友们，我们开始我们可怕的事业了。”我们都武装起来了吗，就像我们第一次访问敌人巢穴的那天晚上一样。武装起来抵御幽灵和肉体的攻击吗？

We all assured him.
我们都向他保证。

‘Then it is well. Now, Madam Mina, you are in any case quite safe here until the sunset. And before then we shall return … if … We shall return! But before we go let me see you armed against personal attack. I have myself, since you came down, prepared your chamber by the placing of things of which we know, so that He may not enter. Now let me guard yourself. On your forehead I touch this piece of Sacred Wafer in the name of the Father, the Son, and …’
‘那就好了。现在，米娜女士，无论如何，在日落之前你在这里都是很安全的。在那之前我们会回来……如果……我们会回来！但在我们走之前，让我看看你是否武装起来以应对人身攻击。自从你下来之后，我就亲自准备了你的房间，摆放了我们所知道的东西，以免他进来。现在就让我来保护你自己吧。我以圣父、圣子的名义触摸你的额头上这块圣饼，然后……”

There was a fearful scream which almost froze our hearts to hear. As he had placed the Wafer on Mina’s forehead, it had seared it … had burned into the flesh as though it had been a piece of white-hot metal. My poor darling’s brain had told her the significance of the fact as quickly as her nerves received the pain of it, and the two so overwhelmed her that her overwrought nature had its voice in that dreadful scream.
一声可怕的尖叫声几乎让我们的心都冻结了。当他把薄饼放在米娜的额头上时，薄饼已经烧焦了……烧进了肉里，就好像它是一块白热的金属一样。当我可怜的宝贝的神经感受到疼痛时，她的大脑就告诉了她这个事实的重要性，这两件事让她不知所措，以至于她过度紧张的本性在可怕的尖叫声中发出了声音。

But the words to her thought came quickly. The echo of the scream had not ceased to ring on the air when there came the reaction, and she sank on her knees on the floor in an agony of abasement. Pulling her beautiful hair over her face, as the leper of old his mantle, she wailed out.
但她的想法很快就来了。当反应传来时，尖叫声的回响还没有停止，她跪倒在地板上，痛苦不堪。她把美丽的头发拉到脸上，就像麻风病人脱下他的斗篷一样，她嚎啕大哭。

‘Unclean! Unclean! Even the Almighty shuns my polluted flesh! I must bear this mark of shame upon my forehead until the Judgement Day.’
‘不干净！不干净！就连全能的上帝也会回避我被污染的肉体！我的额头上必须带着这个耻辱的印记，直到审判日。”

They all paused. I had thrown myself beside her in an agony of helpless grief, and putting my arms around held her tight. For a few minutes our sorrowful hearts beat together, whilst the friends around us turned away their eyes that ran tears silently. Then Van Helsing turned and said gravely. So gravely that I could not help feeling that he was in some way inspired, and was stating things outside himself.
他们都停了下来。我怀着无助的悲痛扑倒在她身边，用双臂紧紧地搂住她。有那么几分钟，我们悲伤的心一起跳动，而我们周围的朋友则移开了默默流泪的眼睛。然后范海辛转过身来，严肃地说道。如此严肃，我不禁感觉到他在某种程度上受到了启发，并且在陈述他自己之外的事情。

‘It may be that you may have to bear that mark till God himself see fit, as He most surely shall, on the Judgement Day, to redress all wrongs of the earth and of His children that He has placed thereon. And oh, Madam Mina, my dear, my dear, may we who love you be there to see, when that red scar, the sign of God’s knowledge of what has been, shall pass away, and leave your forehead as pure as the heart we know. For so surely as we live, that scar shall pass away when God sees right to lift the burden that is hard upon us. Till then we bear our Cross, as His Son did in obedience to His Will. It may be that we are chosen instruments of His good pleasure, and that we ascend to His bidding as that other through stripes and shame. Through tears and blood. Through doubts and fear, and all that makes the difference between God and man.’
‘也许你必须承受这个印记，直到上帝自己认为合适，因为他肯定会在审判日纠正地球和他的孩子们所遭受的所有错误。哦，米娜女士，亲爱的，亲爱的，愿我们爱你的人能够在那里看到，那道红色疤痕，上帝对过去事物的了解的标志，将会消失，留下你的额头像心灵一样纯洁我们知道。因为只要我们还活着，当上帝认为有必要解除我们身上的重担时，伤疤就会消失。在那之前，我们背负着十字架，就像他的儿子服从他的旨意一样。也许我们被选为他美意的工具，并且我们像其他人一样通过鞭打和羞辱来服从他的命令。透过泪水和血。通过怀疑和恐惧，以及所有这些，神与人之间有了区别。”

There was hope in his words, and comfort. And they made for resignation. Mina and I both felt so, and simultaneously we each took one of the old man’s hands and bent over and kissed it. Then without a word we all knelt down together, and all holding hands, swore to be true to each other. We men pledged ourselves to raise the veil of sorrow from the head of her whom, each in his own way, we loved. And we prayed for help and guidance in the terrible task which lay before us. It was then time to start. So I said farewell to Mina, a parting which neither of us shall forget to our dying day, and we set out.
他的话里充满希望，也充满安慰。他们提出辞职。米娜和我都有同感，同时我们各自握住老人的一只手，弯下腰亲吻它。然后，我们一言不发地跪在一起，手拉着手，发誓彼此忠诚。我们男人发誓要揭开她头上悲伤的面纱，我们每个人都以自己的方式爱着她。我们祈求帮助和指导来完成摆在我们面前的艰巨任务。是时候开始了。于是我向米娜告别了，这次离别我们两人直到临终前都不会忘记，然后我们就出发了。

To one thing I have made up my mind. If we find out that Mina must be a vampire in the end, then she shall not go into that unknown and terrible land alone. I suppose it is thus that in old times one vampire meant many. Just as their hideous bodies could only rest in sacred earth, so the holiest love was the recruiting sergeant for their ghastly ranks.
对于一件事我已经下定决心。如果我们最终发现米娜一定是吸血鬼，那么她就不会独自进入那片未知而可怕的土地。我想，在过去，一个吸血鬼意味着多个吸血鬼。正如他们丑陋的躯体只能安息在神圣的土地上一样，最神圣的爱就是为他们可怕的队伍招募军士。

We entered Carfax without trouble and found all things the same as on the first occasion. It was hard to believe that amongst so prosaic surroundings of neglect and dust and decay there was any ground for such fear as already we knew. Had not our minds been made up, and had there not been terrible memories to spur us on, we could hardly have proceeded with our task. We found no papers, or any sign of use in the house. And in the old chapel the great boxes looked just as we had seen them last.
我们顺利进入Carfax，发现一切都和第一次一样。很难相信，在如此被忽视、灰尘和腐烂的平淡环境中，还有我们所知道的恐惧的理由。如果我们没有下定决心，如果没有可怕的回忆来激励我们，我们就很难继续我们的任务。我们在房子里没有发现任何文件或任何使用过的迹象。旧教堂里的大盒子看起来和我们上次看到的一模一样。

Dr. Van Helsing said to us solemnly as we stood before him, ‘And now, my friends, we have a duty here to do. We must sterilize this earth, so sacred of holy memories, that he has brought from a far distant land for such fell use. He has chosen this earth because it has been holy. Thus we defeat him with his own weapon, for we make it more holy still. It was sanctified to such use of man, now we sanctify it to God.’
当我们站在范海辛博士面前时，他庄严地对我们说：“现在，我的朋友们，我们有责任要做。”我们必须对这个充满神圣记忆的地球进行消毒，他从遥远的土地上带来了如此邪恶的用途。他选择了这个地球，因为它是神圣的。因此，我们用他自己的武器击败了他，因为我们使它变得更加神圣。它被神圣化供人类使用，现在我们将它神圣化给上帝。

As he spoke he took from his bag a screwdriver and a wrench, and very soon the top of one of the cases was thrown open. The earth smelled musty and close, but we did not somehow seem to mind, for our attention was concentrated on the Professor. Taking from his box a piece of the Sacred Wafer he laid it reverently on the earth, and then shutting down the lid began to screw it home, we aiding him as he worked.
说话间，他从包里掏出一把螺丝刀和一把扳手，很快其中一个箱子的顶部就被打开了。大地散发着霉味，但我们似乎并不介意，因为我们的注意力都集中在教授身上。他从盒子里拿出一块神圣薄饼，虔诚地把它放在地上，然后盖上盖子，开始将它拧紧，我们在他工作时帮助他。

One by one we treated in the same way each of the great boxes, and left them as we had found them to all appearance. But in each was a portion of the Host. When we closed the door behind us, the Professor said solemnly, ‘So much is already done. It may be that with all the others we can be so successful, then the sunset of this evening may shine of Madam Mina’s forehead all white as ivory and with no stain!’
我们用同样的方式一一对待每一个大盒子，并让它们保持我们发现它们时的样子。但每个人身上都有主的一部分。当我们关上身后的门时，教授严肃地说：“已经做了很多事情了。”也许我们能和其他人一样成功，那么今晚的夕阳也许会照耀着米娜夫人的额头洁白如象牙，毫无污点！

As we passed across the lawn on our way to the station to catch our train we could see the front of the asylum. I looked eagerly, and in the window of my own room saw Mina. I waved my hand to her, and nodded to tell that our work there was successfully accomplished. She nodded in reply to show that she understood. The last I saw, she was waving her hand in farewell. It was with a heavy heart that we sought the station and just caught the train, which was steaming in as we reached the platform. I have written this in the train.
当我们去车站赶火车的路上穿过草坪时，我们可以看到精神病院的前面。我急切地一看，在自己房间的窗户里看到了米娜。我向她摆摆手，点点头，告诉她我们的工作已经圆满完成。她点头回应，表示她明白了。我最后一次见到她时，她正在挥手告别。我们怀着沉重的心情寻找车站，正好赶上了火车，当我们到达站台时，火车正在驶来。这是我在火车上写的。

Piccadilly, 12:30 o’clock.—Just before we reached Fenchurch Street Lord Godalming said to me, ‘Quincey and I will find a locksmith. You had better not come with us in case there should be any difficulty. For under the circumstances it wouldn’t seem so bad for us to break into an empty house. But you are a solicitor and the Incorporated Law Society might tell you that you should have known better.’
皮卡迪利大街，12:30 点。——就在我们到达芬乔奇街之前，戈达尔明勋爵对我说：‘昆西和我会去找锁匠。你最好不要跟我们一起去，以防有什么困难。因为在这种情况下，我们闯进一间空房子似乎也不算太糟糕。但你是一名律师，法团律师会可能会告诉你，你应该更清楚。

I demurred as to my not sharing any danger even of odium, but he went on, ‘Besides, it will attract less attention if there are not too many of us. My title will make it all right with the locksmith, and with any policeman that may come along. You had better go with Jack and the Professor and stay in the Green Park. Somewhere in sight of the house, and when you see the door opened and the smith has gone away, do you all come across. We shall be on the lookout for you, and shall let you in.’
我对自己不承担任何危险（甚至是厌恶的危险）提出异议，但他继续说道，“此外，如果我们人数不多，它会引起更少的关注。”我的头衔会让锁匠和任何可能出现的警察都满意。你最好跟杰克和教授一起去，留在格林公园。在房子附近的某个地方，当你看到门打开而铁匠已经走开时，你们都看到了吗？我们会寻找你，并让你进来。

‘The advice is good!’ said Van Helsing, so we said no more. Godalming and Morris hurried off in a cab, we following in another. At the corner of Arlington Street our contingent got out and strolled into the Green Park. My heart beat as I saw the house on which so much of our hope was centred, looming up grim and silent in its deserted condition amongst its more lively and spruce-looking neighbours. We sat down on a bench within good view, and began to smoke cigars so as to attract as little attention as possible. The minutes seemed to pass with leaden feet as we waited for the coming of the others.
“这个建议很好！”范海辛说，所以我们不再多说什么。戈德尔明和莫里斯乘坐一辆出租车匆匆离开，我们也乘坐另一辆出租车跟在后面。在阿灵顿街的拐角处，我们的队伍下了车，漫步进入格林公园。当我看到我们寄予厚望的那栋房子在其更加活泼、整洁的邻居中间，在荒芜的环境中显得冷酷而寂静时，我的心在跳动。我们坐在视野开阔的长凳上，开始抽雪茄，以免引起注意。当我们等待其他人到来时，时间似乎过得沉重。

At length we saw a four-wheeler drive up. Out of it, in leisurely fashion, got Lord Godalming and Morris. And down from the box descended a thick-set working man with his rush-woven basket of tools. Morris paid the cabman, who touched his hat and drove away. Together the two ascended the steps, and Lord Godalming pointed out what he wanted done. The workman took off his coat leisurely and hung it on one of the spikes of the rail, saying something to a policeman who just then sauntered along. The policeman nodded acquiescence, and the man kneeling down placed his bag beside him. After searching through it, he took out a selection of tools which he proceeded to lay beside him in orderly fashion. Then he stood up, looked in the keyhole, blew into it, and turning to his employers, made some remark. Lord Godalming smiled, and the man lifted a good sized bunch of keys. Selecting one of them, he began to probe the lock, as if feeling his way with it. After fumbling about for a bit he tried a second, and then a third. All at once the door opened under a slight push from him, and he and the two others entered the hall. We sat still. My own cigar burnt furiously, but Van Helsing’s went cold altogether. We waited patiently as we saw the workman come out and bring his bag. Then he held the door partly open, steadying it with his knees, whilst he fitted a key to the lock. This he finally handed to Lord Godalming, who took out his purse and gave him something. The man touched his hat, took his bag, put on his coat and departed. Not a soul took the slightest notice of the whole transaction.
终于，我们看见一辆四轮车开过来了。戈达尔明勋爵和莫里斯悠闲地从里面出来。从箱子里下来一个身材魁梧的工人，手里拿着一篮子用灯芯草编织的工具。莫里斯付了钱给出租车司机，出租车司机摸了摸帽子，开走了。两人一起走上台阶，戈达尔明勋爵指出了他想要做的事情。工人悠闲地脱下外套，挂在栏杆的一根钉子上，对着刚刚走过来的警察说了些什么。警察点头默许，男子跪下，将包放在他身边。翻遍之后，他取出了一些工具，整齐地放在了身边。然后他站起来，朝钥匙孔里看了看，向里面吹了一口气，然后转向他的雇主，说了一些话。戈达尔明勋爵微笑着，那人举起了一大串钥匙。他选择了其中一把，开始探索锁，仿佛在摸索。摸索了一会后，他尝试了第二次，然后是第三次。突然，他轻轻一推，门就打开了，他和另外两个人走进了大厅。我们静静地坐着。我自己的雪茄燃烧得很厉害，但范海辛的雪茄却完全变冷了。我们耐心地等待着，看到工人带着他的包出来了。然后他把门半开，用膝盖稳住门，同时用钥匙打开锁。他最终把这个交给了戈达尔明勋爵，戈达尔明勋爵掏出了他的钱包，给了他一些东西。那人摸了摸帽子，拿起包，穿上外套就走了。没有人注意到整个交易。

When the man had fairly gone, we three crossed the street and knocked at the door. It was immediately opened by Quincey Morris, beside whom stood Lord Godalming lighting a cigar.
当那个人走开后，我们三个人穿过街道，敲了敲门。昆西·莫里斯立即打开了门，戈达尔明勋爵站在他旁边，点着雪茄。

‘The place smells so vilely,’ said the latter as we came in. It did indeed smell vilely. Like the old chapel at Carfax. And with our previous experience it was plain to us that the Count had been using the place pretty freely. We moved to explore the house, all keeping together in case of attack, for we knew we had a strong and wily enemy to deal with, and as yet we did not know whether the Count might not be in the house.
当我们进来时，后者说道：“这个地方闻起来太难闻了。”确实闻起来很难闻。就像卡法克斯的老教堂一样。根据我们之前的经验，我们很清楚伯爵一直非常自由地使用这个地方。我们开始探索这座房子，所有人都聚集在一起以防受到攻击，因为我们知道我们有一个强大而狡猾的敌人要对付，而且我们还不知道伯爵是否可能不在房子里。

In the dining room, which lay at the back of the hall, we found eight boxes of earth. Eight boxes only out of the nine which we sought! Our work was not over, and would never be until we should have found the missing box.
在大厅后面的餐厅里，我们发现了八箱土。我们要的九个盒子中只有八个！我们的工作还没有结束，而且除非我们找到丢失的盒子，否则我们的工作永远不会结束。

First we opened the shutters of the window which looked out across a narrow stone flagged yard at the blank face of a stable, pointed to look like the front of a miniature house. There were no windows in it, so we were not afraid of being overlooked. We did not lose any time in examining the chests. With the tools which we had brought with us we opened them, one by one, and treated them as we had treated those others in the old chapel. It was evident to us that the Count was not at present in the house, and we proceeded to search for any of his effects.
首先，我们打开百叶窗，窗外是一个狭窄的石板院子，外面是一个马厩的空白面，看上去就像一座微型房子的前面。里面没有窗户，所以我们不怕被忽视。我们不失时机地检查箱子。我们用随身携带的工具，一一打开它们，并像对待旧教堂里的其他人一样对待它们。我们很明显伯爵目前不在屋子里，我们开始寻找他的物品。

After a cursory glance at the rest of the rooms, from basement to attic, we came to the conclusion that the dining room contained any effects which might belong to the Count. And so we proceeded to minutely examine them. They lay in a sort of orderly disorder on the great dining room table.
粗略地浏览了从地下室到阁楼的其余房间后，我们得出的结论是，餐厅里藏有任何可能属于伯爵的物品。因此我们开始仔细检查它们。它们整齐地躺在大餐桌上。

There were title deeds of the Piccadilly house in a great bundle, deeds of the purchase of the houses at Mile End and Bermondsey, notepaper, envelopes, and pens and ink. All were covered up in thin wrapping paper to keep them from the dust. There were also a clothes brush, a brush and comb, and a jug and basin. The latter containing dirty water which was reddened as if with blood. Last of all was a little heap of keys of all sorts and sizes, probably those belonging to the other houses.
一大捆皮卡迪利房子的产权证、麦尔恩德和伯蒙西的房屋购买证、信纸、信封、钢笔和墨水。所有的东西都用薄薄的包装纸包裹着，以防沾上灰尘。还有一把衣刷、一把刷子和梳子、一个水壶和脸盆。后者盛着脏水，颜色变得通红，仿佛沾满了血。最后是一小堆各种类型和大小的钥匙，可能是属于其他房子的钥匙。

When we had examined this last find, Lord Godalming and Quincey Morris taking accurate notes of the various addresses of the houses in the East and the South, took with them the keys in a great bunch, and set out to destroy the boxes in these places. The rest of us are, with what patience we can, waiting their return, or the coming of the Count.
当我们检查了最后一个发现时，戈德尔明勋爵和昆西·莫里斯准确地记录了东部和南部房屋的各个地址，随身携带了一大堆钥匙，并开始销毁这些地方的盒子。我们其余的人，尽我们最大的耐心，等待他们的归来，或者伯爵的到来。

Chapter 23
第23章

DR. SEWARD’S DIARY
博士。苏厄德的日记

3 October.—The time seemed terribly long whilst we were waiting for the coming of Godalming and Quincey Morris. The Professor tried to keep our minds active by using them all the time. I could see his beneficent purpose, by the side glances which he threw from time to time at Harker. The poor fellow is overwhelmed in a misery that is appalling to see. Last night he was a frank, happy-looking man, with strong, youthful face, full of energy, and with dark brown hair. Today he is a drawn, haggard old man, whose white hair matches well with the hollow burning eyes and grief-written lines of his face. His energy is still intact. In fact, he is like a living flame. This may yet be his salvation, for if all go well, it will tide him over the despairing period. He will then, in a kind of way, wake again to the realities of life. Poor fellow, I thought my own trouble was bad enough, but his … !
10 月 3 日——我们等待戈德尔明和昆西·莫里斯到来的时间似乎非常漫长。教授试图通过一直使用它们来保持我们的思维活跃。从他不时向哈克投去的斜视中，我可以看出他的善意目的。这个可怜的家伙沉浸在令人震惊的痛苦之中。昨晚他是一个坦率、看上去很快乐的男人，有着坚强、年轻的脸，充满活力，有一头深棕色的头发。如今，他已是一位憔悴、憔悴的老人，白发与空洞、灼热的眼睛和脸上写满悲伤的皱纹相得益彰。他的能量依然完好无损。事实上，他就像一团活生生的火焰。这也许是他的救赎，因为如果一切顺利，他将渡过绝望的时期。然后，他将以某种方式再次醒悟到生活的现实。可怜的家伙，我以为我自己的麻烦已经够糟糕了，但是他的……！

The Professor knows this well enough, and is doing his best to keep his mind active. What he has been saying was, under the circumstances, of absorbing interest. So well as I can remember, here it is:
教授非常清楚这一点，并且正在尽力保持头脑活跃。在这种情况下，他所说的话很有趣。据我所知，这里是：

‘I have studied, over and over again since they came into my hands, all the papers relating to this monster, and the more I have studied, the greater seems the necessity to utterly stamp him out. All through there are signs of his advance. Not only of his power, but of his knowledge of it. As I learned from the researches of my friend Arminius of Buda-Pesth, he was in life a most wonderful man. Soldier, statesman, and alchemist. Which latter was the highest development of the science knowledge of his time. He had a mighty brain, a learning beyond compare, and a heart that knew no fear and no remorse. He dared even to attend the Scholomance, and there was no branch of knowledge of his time that he did not essay.
“自从这些文件到我手中以来，我已经一遍又一遍地研究了与这个怪物有关的所有文件，而且我研究得越多，似乎就越有必要彻底消灭他。到处都有他前进的迹象。不仅是他的力量，还有他的知识。据我从我的朋友布达佩斯的阿米尼乌斯的研究中得知，他在生活中是一个非常出色的人。士兵、政治家和炼金术士。后者是他那个时代科学知识的最高发展。他拥有强大的大脑、无与伦比的学识以及一颗无所畏惧、无所悔恨的心。他甚至敢于参加通灵学院，他那个时代的所有知识分支都是他不曾尝试过的。

‘Well, in him the brain powers survived the physical death. Though it would seem that memory was not all complete. In some faculties of mind he has been, and is, only a child. But he is growing, and some things that were childish at the first are now of man’s stature. He is experimenting, and doing it well. And if it had not been that we have crossed his path he would be yet, he may be yet if we fail, the father or furtherer of a new order of beings, whose road must lead through Death, not Life.’
“好吧，他的脑力在肉体死亡后仍然存在。虽然记忆似乎并不完整。从某些方面来说，他过去和现在都只是一个孩子。但他正在成长，一些起初幼稚的东西现在已经具有成人的地位了。他正在尝试，而且做得很好。如果我们没有遇到他的道路，他就会是，如果我们失败的话，他可能仍然是一个新的存在秩序的父亲或进一步发展者，他的道路必须通向死亡，而不是生命。

Harker groaned and said, ‘And this is all arrayed against my darling! But how is he experimenting? The knowledge may help us to defeat him!’
哈克呻吟着说道：“这一切都是针对我亲爱的！”但他如何进行实验呢？这些知识可能会帮助我们打败他！

‘He has all along, since his coming, been trying his power, slowly but surely. That big child-brain of his is working. Well for us, it is as yet a child-brain. For had he dared, at the first, to attempt certain things he would long ago have been beyond our power. However, he means to succeed, and a man who has centuries before him can afford to wait and to go slow. Festina lente may well be his motto.’
“自从他到来以来，他一直在缓慢而坚定地尝试他的力量。他那颗大孩子的大脑正在发挥作用。对我们来说，它还只是一个儿童大脑。因为如果他一开始就敢于尝试某些事情，他早就超出了我们的能力范围。然而，他意味着成功，而一个在他面前还有几个世纪的人可以等待并慢慢来。 Festina lente 很可能是他的座右铭。

‘I fail to understand,’ said Harker wearily. ‘Oh, do be more plain to me! Perhaps grief and trouble are dulling my brain.’
“我不明白，”哈克疲倦地说。 ‘哦，请对我说得更直白一些！也许悲伤和麻烦正在使我的大脑变得迟钝。

The Professor laid his hand tenderly on his shoulder as he spoke, ‘Ah, my child, I will be plain. Do you not see how, of late, this monster has been creeping into knowledge experimentally. How he has been making use of the zoophagous patient to effect his entry into friend John’s home. For your Vampire, though in all afterwards he can come when and how he will, must at the first make entry only when asked thereto by an inmate. But these are not his most important experiments. Do we not see how at the first all these so great boxes were moved by others. He knew not then but that must be so. But all the time that so great child-brain of his was growing, and he began to consider whether he might not himself move the box. So he began to help. And then, when he found that this be all right, he try to move them all alone. And so he progress, and he scatter these graves of him. And none but he know where they are hidden.
教授温柔地将手放在他的肩膀上，说道：“啊，我的孩子，我会坦白的。”你难道没有看到，最近这个怪物是如何通过实验侵入知识的吗？他如何利用食兽病人进入朋友约翰的家。对于你的吸血鬼来说，尽管之后他可以随心所欲地何时何地来，但一开始必须只有在囚犯要求时才可以进来。但这些并不是他最重要的实验。难道我们没有看到这些如此巨大的盒子一开始是如何被其他人搬走的吗？他当时不知道，但一定是这样。但他那颗巨大的童心一直在成长，他开始考虑是否可以自己搬动盒子。于是他开始帮忙。然后，当他发现这样就可以了，他试图独自移动他们。所以他进步了，他驱散了他的这些坟墓。除了他之外，没有人知道它们藏在哪里。

‘He may have intend to bury them deep in the ground. So that only he use them in the night, or at such time as he can change his form, they do him equal well, and none may know these are his hiding place! But, my child, do not despair, this knowledge came to him just too late! Already all of his lairs but one be sterilize as for him. And before the sunset this shall be so. Then he have no place where he can move and hide. I delayed this morning that so we might be sure. Is there not more at stake for us than for him? Then why not be more careful than him? By my clock it is one hour and already, if all be well, friend Arthur and Quincey are on their way to us. Today is our day, and we must go sure, if slow, and lose no chance. See! There are five of us when those absent ones return.’
“他可能打算把它们深埋在地下。因此，只有他在夜间或在他可以改变形态的时候使用它们，它们对他来说同样有效，而且没有人知道这些是他的藏身之处！但是，我的孩子，不要绝望，这个知识对他来说已经太晚了！他的所有巢穴都已被消毒，只有一个巢穴除外。日落之前，一切都会如此。那么他就没有地方可以活动和躲藏了。我今天早上推迟了，所以我们可以确定。我们面临的危险不比他更大吗？那为什么不比他小心一点呢？按我的时钟看，已经一小时了，如果一切顺利的话，朋友亚瑟和昆西已经在来我们这里的路上了。今天是我们的日子，我们必须坚定不移，即使缓慢，也不要失去任何机会。看！当那些缺席的人回来时，我们有五个人。

Whilst we were speaking we were startled by a knock at the hall door, the double postman’s knock of the telegraph boy. We all moved out to the hall with one impulse, and Van Helsing, holding up his hand to us to keep silence, stepped to the door and opened it. The boy handed in a dispatch. The Professor closed the door again, and after looking at the direction, opened it and read aloud.
正当我们说话的时候，大厅的门被敲门声吓了一跳，那是双邮差的电报员的敲门声。我们一时冲动地走到大厅，范海辛向我们举起手以保持安静，然后走到门口，打开了门。男孩递上一份急件。教授再次关上门，看了方向后，打开门朗读起来。

‘Look out for D. He has just now, 12:45, come from Carfax hurriedly and hastened towards the South. He seems to be going the round and may want to see you: Mina.’
“留意D。他刚刚，12点45分，从卡法克斯匆匆赶来，朝南方赶去。他似乎要到处走走，可能想见你：米娜。”

There was a pause, broken by Jonathan Harker’s voice, ‘Now, God be thanked, we shall soon meet!’
乔纳森·哈克的声音打断了一阵停顿，“现在，感谢上帝，我们很快就会见面了！”

Van Helsing turned to him quickly and said, ‘God will act in His own way and time. Do not fear, and do not rejoice as yet. For what we wish for at the moment may be our own undoings.’
范海辛迅速转向他说：“上帝会按照他自己的方式和时间行事。”不要害怕，也不要高兴。因为我们此刻所希望的可能是我们自己的毁灭。

‘I care for nothing now,’ he answered hotly, ‘except to wipe out this brute from the face of creation. I would sell my soul to do it!’
“我现在什么都不关心，”他激烈地回答，“除了把这个畜生从造物的表面上消灭掉。”为了做到这一点，我愿意出卖我的灵魂！

‘Oh, hush, hush, my child!’ said Van Helsing. ‘God does not purchase souls in this wise, and the Devil, though he may purchase, does not keep faith. But God is merciful and just, and knows your pain and your devotion to that dear Madam Mina. Think you, how her pain would be doubled, did she but hear your wild words. Do not fear any of us, we are all devoted to this cause, and today shall see the end. The time is coming for action. Today this Vampire is limit to the powers of man, and till sunset he may not change. It will take him time to arrive here, see it is twenty minutes past one, and there are yet some times before he can hither come, be he never so quick. What we must hope for is that my Lord Arthur and Quincey arrive first.’
“噢，嘘，嘘，我的孩子！”范海辛说道。 ‘上帝不会以这种方式购买灵魂，而魔鬼虽然可以购买，但并不守信。但上帝是仁慈和公正的，他知道你的痛苦和你对亲爱的米娜女士的忠诚。你想，如果她听到你狂妄的话，她的痛苦将会加倍。不要害怕我们任何人，我们都致力于这一事业，今天就会看到结局。采取行动的时候到了。今天，这个吸血鬼受到人类力量的限制，直到日落他都不会改变。他需要一些时间才能到达这里，因为现在已经是一点点二十分钟了，而且他还需要一些时间才能到达这里，尽管他从来没有这么快过。我们必须希望亚瑟勋爵和昆西先到达。

About half an hour after we had received Mrs. Harker’s telegram, there came a quiet, resolute knock at the hall door. It was just an ordinary knock, such as is given hourly by thousands of gentlemen, but it made the Professor’s heart and mine beat loudly. We looked at each other, and together moved out into the hall. We each held ready to use our various armaments, the spiritual in the left hand, the mortal in the right. Van Helsing pulled back the latch, and holding the door half open, stood back, having both hands ready for action. The gladness of our hearts must have shown upon our faces when on the step, close to the door, we saw Lord Godalming and Quincey Morris. They came quickly in and closed the door behind them, the former saying, as they moved along the hall.
大约在我们收到哈克夫人的电报半小时后，有人轻声坚决地敲响了大厅的门。这只是一声普通的敲门声，就像成千上万的绅士每小时发出的那样，但它却让教授和我的心剧烈地跳动着。我们对视一眼，一起走向大厅。我们每个人都准备好使用我们的各种武器，左手是精神武器，右手是凡人武器。范海辛拉开门闩，将门半开着，退后一步，双手做好了行动的准备。当我们在靠近门的台阶上看到戈达尔明勋爵和昆西·莫里斯时，我们内心的喜悦一定表现在脸上。他们很快走进来，关上身后的门，前者边说边沿着大厅走去。

‘It is all right. We found both places. Six boxes in each and we destroyed them all.’
'没关系，还不错。我们找到了这两个地方。每个里面有六个盒子，我们把它们全部毁掉了。”

‘Destroyed?’ asked the Professor.
“被摧毁了？”教授问道。

‘For him!’ We were silent for a minute, and then Quincey said, ‘There’s nothing to do but to wait here. If, however, he doesn’t turn up by five o’clock, we must start off. For it won’t do to leave Mrs. Harker alone after sunset.’
“为了他！”我们沉默了一分钟，然后昆西说，“除了在这里等，别无他法。”然而，如果他五点钟之前还没有出现，我们就必须出发了。因为日落之后，让哈克夫人独自一人是不行的。

‘He will be here before long now,’ said Van Helsing, who had been consulting his pocketbook. ‘Nota bene, in Madam’s telegram he went south from Carfax. That means he went to cross the river, and he could only do so at slack of tide, which should be something before one o’clock. That he went south has a meaning for us. He is as yet only suspicious, and he went from Carfax first to the place where he would suspect interference least. You must have been at Bermondsey only a short time before him. That he is not here already shows that he went to Mile End next. This took him some time, for he would then have to be carried over the river in some way. Believe me, my friends, we shall not have long to wait now. We should have ready some plan of attack, so that we may throw away no chance. Hush, there is no time now. Have all your arms! Be ready!’ He held up a warning hand as he spoke, for we all could hear a key softly inserted in the lock of the hall door.
“他很快就会来这里，”范海辛说道，他一直在查看他的钱包。 “注意，在夫人的电报中，他从卡法克斯南下。也就是说，他要过河，而且只能在退潮的时候才能过河，应该是一点点之前的事情了。他南下对我们来说是有意义的。他还只是怀疑，所以他首先从卡法克斯去了他最不怀疑受到干扰的地方。你一定比他早到过柏蒙西不久。他不在这里已经表明他接下来去了麦尔恩德。这花了他一些时间，因为随后他必须以某种方式被抬过河。相信我，我的朋友们，我们现在不会等太久。我们应该准备一些进攻计划，这样我们就不会错过任何机会。嘘，现在没时间了。伸出你的双臂吧！准备好！”他边说边举起了警告的手，因为我们都可以听到一把钥匙轻轻插入大厅门锁的声音。

I could not but admire, even at such a moment, the way in which a dominant spirit asserted itself. In all our hunting parties and adventures in different parts of the world, Quincey Morris had always been the one to arrange the plan of action, and Arthur and I had been accustomed to obey him implicitly. Now, the old habit seemed to be renewed instinctively. With a swift glance around the room, he at once laid out our plan of attack, and without speaking a word, with a gesture, placed us each in position. Van Helsing, Harker, and I were just behind the door, so that when it was opened the Professor could guard it whilst we two stepped between the incomer and the door. Godalming behind and Quincey in front stood just out of sight ready to move in front of the window. We waited in a suspense that made the seconds pass with nightmare slowness. The slow, careful steps came along the hall. The Count was evidently prepared for some surprise, at least he feared it.
即使在这样的时刻，我也不得不钦佩一种主导精神的表现方式。在我们所有的狩猎聚会和世界各地的冒险中，昆西·莫里斯总是负责安排行动计划的人，而我和亚瑟也习惯于默默地服从他。现在，这个旧习惯似乎本能地又恢复了。他迅速扫视了房间一圈，立即制定了我们的进攻计划，二话不说，只用一个手势就给我们安排了位置。范海辛、哈克和我就在门后面，这样当门打开时，教授就可以看守它，而我们两个则站在进来者和门之间。戈达尔明在后面，昆西在前面，就站在视线之外，准备移到窗前。我们在悬念中等待着，时间过得如噩梦般缓慢。缓慢而小心的脚步沿着大厅走来。伯爵显然已经做好了应对意外的准备，至少他担心这一点。

Suddenly with a single bound he leaped into the room. Winning a way past us before any of us could raise a hand to stay him. There was something so pantherlike in the movement, something so unhuman, that it seemed to sober us all from the shock of his coming. The first to act was Harker, who with a quick movement, threw himself before the door leading into the room in the front of the house. As the Count saw us, a horrible sort of snarl passed over his face, showing the eyeteeth long and pointed. But the evil smile as quickly passed into a cold stare of lion-like disdain. His expression again changed as, with a single impulse, we all advanced upon him. It was a pity that we had not some better organized plan of attack, for even at the moment I wondered what we were to do. I did not myself know whether our lethal weapons would avail us anything.
突然，他一跳，跳进了房间。在我们中的任何一个人举手阻止他之前，他就已经远远超过了我们。这场运动有一种像黑豹一样的感觉，一种非人性的感觉，似乎让我们所有人都从他到来的震惊中清醒过来。第一个行动的是哈克，他迅速地扑到了通往房子前面房间的门前。当伯爵看到我们时，他的脸上掠过一种可怕的咆哮，露出又长又尖的牙齿。但邪恶的笑容很快就变成了狮子般蔑视的冰冷目光。当我们一冲动向他走去时，他的表情再次发生了变化。遗憾的是，我们没有更好的组织进攻计划，因为即使在那一刻我也想知道我们要做什么。我自己也不知道我们的致命武器是否会对我们有任何帮助。

Harker evidently meant to try the matter, for he had ready his great Kukri knife and made a fierce and sudden cut at him. The blow was a powerful one. Only the diabolical quickness of the Count’s leap back saved him. A second less and the trenchant blade had shorn through his coat, making a wide gap whence a bundle of bank notes and a stream of gold fell out. The expression of the Count’s face was so hellish, that for a moment I feared for Harker, though I saw him throw the terrible knife aloft again for another stroke. Instinctively I moved forward with a protective impulse, holding the Crucifix and Wafer in my left hand. I felt a mighty power fly along my arm, and it was without surprise that I saw the monster cower back before a similar movement made spontaneously by each one of us. It would be impossible to describe the expression of hate and baffled malignity, of anger and hellish rage, which came over the Count’s face. His waxen hue became greenish-yellow by the contrast of his burning eyes, and the red scar on the forehead showed on the pallid skin like a palpitating wound. The next instant, with a sinuous dive he swept under Harker’s arm, ere his blow could fall, and grasping a handful of the money from the floor, dashed across the room, threw himself at the window. Amid the crash and glitter of the falling glass, he tumbled into the flagged area below. Through the sound of the shivering glass I could hear the ‘ting’ of the gold, as some of the sovereigns fell on the flagging.
哈克显然打算尝试一下，因为他已经准备好了他那把巨大的库克里刀，突然猛烈地砍向他。这一击非常有​​力。只有伯爵那惊人的后退速度才救了他。不到一秒钟，锐利的刀锋就划破了他的外套，留下了一个很大的缝隙，一捆钞票和一缕金子从里面掉了出来。伯爵脸上的表情是如此可怕，以至于有一瞬间我为哈克感到担心，尽管我看到他再次把那把可怕的刀扔到高处，准备再砍一刀。我本能地带着一种保护性的冲动向前走去，左手拿着十字架和薄饼。我感到一股强大的力量沿着我的手臂飞过，毫不奇怪地，我看到怪物在我们每个人自发做出的类似动作前退缩了。伯爵脸上的仇恨、莫名其妙的恶意、愤怒和地狱般的愤怒是无法形容的。他的蜡色在灼热的目光映衬下变成了黄绿色，额头上的红色疤痕在苍白的皮肤上显露出来，就像一道令人心悸的伤口。下一瞬间，他在哈克的手臂下猛地一扑，在他的攻击落下之前，抓起地上的一把钱，冲过房间，扑向窗户。在玻璃掉落的撞击声和闪光声中，他跌进了下面的标记区域。透过颤抖的玻璃的声音，我能听到黄金的“叮当”声，因为一些金币掉在了石板上。

We ran over and saw him spring unhurt from the ground. He, rushing up the steps, crossed the flagged yard, and pushed open the stable door. There he turned and spoke to us.
我们跑过去，看到他从地上跳了出来，毫发无伤。他冲上台阶，穿过铺着石板的院子，推开马厩的门。在那里他转身对我们说话。

‘You think to baffle me, you with your pale faces all in a row, like sheep in a butcher’s. You shall be sorry yet, each one of you! You think you have left me without a place to rest, but I have more. My revenge is just begun! I spread it over centuries, and time is on my side. Your girls that you all love are mine already. And through them you and others shall yet be mine, my creatures, to do my bidding and to be my jackals when I want to feed. Bah!’
‘你想让我困惑，你苍白的脸排成一排，就像屠宰场里的羊一样。你们每个人都会后悔的！你以为你让我没有休息的地方，但我还有更多。我的复仇才刚刚开始！我将它传播了几个世纪，时间站在我这边。你们所爱的女孩们已经是我的了。通过他们，你和其他人将成为我的，我的创造物，听从我的命令，当我想进食时成为我的豺狼。呸！'

With a contemptuous sneer, he passed quickly through the door, and we heard the rusty bolt creak as he fastened it behind him. A door beyond opened and shut. The first of us to speak was the Professor. Realizing the difficulty of following him through the stable, we moved toward the hall.
他带着轻蔑的冷笑，快步走进了门，当他把门锁在身后时，我们听到生锈的门闩吱吱作响。远处的一扇门打开又关上。我们当中第一个发言的是教授。意识到跟随他穿过马厩很困难，我们向大厅走去。

‘We have learnt something … much! Notwithstanding his brave words, he fears us. He fears time, he fears want! For if not, why he hurry so? His very tone betray him, or my ears deceive. Why take that money? You follow quick. You are hunters of the wild beast, and understand it so. For me, I make sure that nothing here may be of use to him, if so that he returns.’
‘我们学到了一些东西……很多！尽管他言辞勇敢，但他还是害怕我们。他害怕时间，他害怕匮乏！如果不是的话，他为什么这么着急呢？他的语气本身就背叛了他，或者说我的耳朵欺骗了他。为什么要拿那笔钱？你快跟上吧。你们是野兽的猎人，你们也这么理解。对我来说，我确保这里的任何东西对他都没有用处，这样他就可以回来。

As he spoke he put the money remaining in his pocket, took the title deeds in the bundle as Harker had left them, and swept the remaining things into the open fireplace, where he set fire to them with a match.
他边说边把剩下的钱放进口袋，拿起哈克留下的那捆地契，然后把剩下的东西扔进开放式壁炉里，用火柴将它们点燃。

Godalming and Morris had rushed out into the yard, and Harker had lowered himself from the window to follow the Count. He had, however, bolted the stable door, and by the time they had forced it open there was no sign of him. Van Helsing and I tried to make inquiry at the back of the house. But the mews was deserted and no one had seen him depart.
戈德尔明和莫里斯冲进了院子，哈克则从窗户下来跟随伯爵。然而，他已经锁上了马厩的门，当他们强行打开门时，已经没有他的踪影了。范海辛和我试图在房子后面询问。但马厩里空无一人，没有人看见他离开。

It was now late in the afternoon, and sunset was not far off. We had to recognize that our game was up. With heavy hearts we agreed with the Professor when he said, ‘Let us go back to Madam Mina. Poor, poor dear Madam Mina. All we can do just now is done, and we can there, at least, protect her. But we need not despair. There is but one more earth box, and we must try to find it. When that is done all may yet be well.’
此时已是傍晚时分，距离日落已经不远了。我们必须认识到我们的游戏已经结束了。当教授说‘让我们回到米娜女士那里’时，我们心情沉重地同意了他的观点。可怜的，可怜的，亲爱的米娜女士。我们现在能做的已经完成了，至少我们可以保护她。但我们不必绝望。只剩下一个地球盒子了，我们必须设法找到它。当这一切完成后，一切可能都会好起来。

I could see that he spoke as bravely as he could to comfort Harker. The poor fellow was quite broken down, now and again he gave a low groan which he could not suppress. He was thinking of his wife.
我看得出来他尽可能勇敢地安慰哈克。这个可怜的家伙已经崩溃了，时不时地发出无法抑制的低声呻吟。他在想他的妻子。

With sad hearts we came back to my house, where we found Mrs. Harker waiting us, with an appearance of cheerfulness which did honour to her bravery and unselfishness. When she saw our faces, her own became as pale as death. For a second or two her eyes were closed as if she were in secret prayer.
我们怀着悲伤的心情回到了我家，发现哈克夫人正在等我们，她的脸上带着愉快的表情，这向她的勇敢和无私致敬。当她看到我们的脸时，她的脸变得像死人一样苍白。她闭着眼睛有一两秒钟，仿佛在秘密祈祷。

And then she said cheerfully, ‘I can never thank you all enough. Oh, my poor darling!’
然后她高兴地说：“我对你们感激不尽。”哦，我可怜的亲爱的！

As she spoke, she took her husband’s grey head in her hands and kissed it.
说着，她双手捧起丈夫花白的头，亲吻着。

‘Lay your poor head here and rest it. All will yet be well, dear! God will protect us if He so will it in His good intent.’ The poor fellow groaned. There was no place for words in his sublime misery.
‘把你可怜的头放在这儿休息吧。一切都会好起来的，亲爱的！如果上帝出于善意的话，他会保护我们的。”可怜的家伙呻吟道。在他极度的痛苦中没有言语的余地。

We had a sort of perfunctory supper together, and I think it cheered us all up somewhat. It was, perhaps, the mere animal heat of food to hungry people, for none of us had eaten anything since breakfast, or the sense of companionship may have helped us, but anyhow we were all less miserable, and saw the morrow as not altogether without hope.
我们一起吃了一顿草率的晚餐，我想这多少让我们大家都高兴起来。也许，这只是给饥饿的人提供的动物性食物的热量，因为我们从早餐后就没有吃过任何东西，或者陪伴的感觉可能对我们有帮助，但无论如何，我们都没有那么痛苦，并且认为明天并不完全是这样。没有希望。

True to our promise, we told Mrs. Harker everything which had passed. And although she grew snowy white at times when danger had seemed to threaten her husband, and red at others when his devotion to her was manifested she listened bravely and with calmness. When we came to the part where Harker had rushed at the Count so recklessly, she clung to her husband’s arm, and held it tight as though her clinging could protect him from any harm that might come. She said nothing, however, till the narration was all done, and matters had been brought up to the present time.
我们恪守承诺，将所发生的一切告诉了哈克夫人。尽管当她的丈夫似乎面临危险时，她的脸色变得雪白，而当他的丈夫表现出对她的忠诚时，她的脸色变得通红，但她勇敢而平静地倾听着。当我们看到哈克如此鲁莽地冲向伯爵的那一幕时，她抓住了丈夫的手臂，紧紧地握着，仿佛她的紧紧抓住可以保护他免受任何可能发生的伤害。然而，她什么也没说，直到叙述完毕，事情也发展到了现在。

Then without letting go her husband’s hand she stood up amongst us and spoke. Oh, that I could give any idea of the scene. Of that sweet, sweet, good, good woman in all the radiant beauty of her youth and animation, with the red scar on her forehead, of which she was conscious, and which we saw with grinding of our teeth, remembering whence and how it came. Her loving kindness against our grim hate. Her tender faith against all our fears and doubting. And we, knowing that so far as symbols went, she with all her goodness and purity and faith, was outcast from God.
然后，她没有松开丈夫的手，站在我们中间说话。哦，希望我能提供有关场景的任何想法。那个甜美、甜美、善良、善良的女人，青春洋溢、充满活力，额头上有一道红色的疤痕，她对此是有意识的，我们咬牙切齿地看到了它，还记得它是从哪里来的，是如何形成的。来了。她的慈爱对抗我们的严酷仇恨。她温柔的信念战胜​​了我们所有的恐惧和怀疑。我们知道，就象征而言，她连同她所有的善良、纯洁和信仰，都被上帝抛弃了。

‘Jonathan,’ she said, and the word sounded like music on her lips it was so full of love and tenderness, ‘Jonathan dear, and you all my true, true friends, I want you to bear something in mind through all this dreadful time. I know that you must fight. That you must destroy even as you destroyed the false Lucy so that the true Lucy might live hereafter. But it is not a work of hate. That poor soul who has wrought all this misery is the saddest case of all. Just think what will be his joy when he, too, is destroyed in his worser part that his better part may have spiritual immortality. You must be pitiful to him, too, though it may not hold your hands from his destruction.’
“乔纳森，”她说，这个词在她嘴唇上听起来像音乐，充满了爱和温柔，“亲爱的乔纳森，你们都是我真正、真正的朋友，我希望你们在经历这一切可怕的事情时牢记一件事。”时间。我知道你必须战斗。你必须像摧毁假露西一样摧毁，这样真正的露西才能在来世生存。但这并不是一部充满仇恨的作品。造成这一切苦难的那个可怜的灵魂是最悲惨的例子。试想一下，当他的更坏的部分也被摧毁，而他的更好的部分可能具有精神上的不朽时，他会感到多么高兴。你也必须对他表示同情，尽管这可能无法阻止你免受他的毁灭。

As she spoke I could see her husband’s face darken and draw together, as though the passion in him were shriveling his being to its core. Instinctively the clasp on his wife’s hand grew closer, till his knuckles looked white. She did not flinch from the pain which I knew she must have suffered, but looked at him with eyes that were more appealing than ever.
当她说话时，我可以看到她丈夫的脸色变得阴沉，皱起眉头，仿佛他内心的激情正在使他的生命彻底萎缩。本能地，他妻子的手越来越紧，直到指节发白。她并没有因为我知道她一定遭受过的痛苦而退缩，而是用比以往任何时候都更加迷人的眼神看着他。

As she stopped speaking he leaped to his feet, almost tearing his hand from hers as he spoke.
当她停止说话时，他跳了起来，说话时几乎要把自己的手从她的手中夺走。

‘May God give him into my hand just for long enough to destroy that earthly life of him which we are aiming at. If beyond it I could send his soul forever and ever to burning hell I would do it!’
“愿上帝把他交在我手里，时间足够长，足以摧毁我们所追求的他的尘世生活。”如果超越它，我可以把他的灵魂永远送入燃烧的地狱，我会这么做的！

‘Oh, hush! Oh, hush in the name of the good God. Don’t say such things, Jonathan, my husband, or you will crush me with fear and horror. Just think, my dear … I have been thinking all this long, long day of it … that … perhaps … some day … I, too, may need such pity, and that some other like you, and with equal cause for anger, may deny it to me! Oh, my husband! My husband, indeed I would have spared you such a thought had there been another way. But I pray that God may not have treasured your wild words, except as the heart-broken wail of a very loving and sorely stricken man. Oh, God, let these poor white hairs go in evidence of what he has suffered, who all his life has done no wrong, and on whom so many sorrows have come.’
‘哦，安静！哦，以仁慈上帝的名义保持安静。别说这样的话，乔纳森，我的丈夫，否则你会因恐惧而压垮我。想一想，亲爱的……我一直在想这漫长的一天……也许……有一天……我也可能需要这样的怜悯，而其他像你一样的人，同样有理由愤怒，可能会拒绝我！哦，我的丈夫！我的丈夫，如果有其他办法的话，我确实不会让你有这样的想法。但我祈求上帝不要珍视你的狂野话语，除非你把你的话语当作一个非常有爱、深受打击的人的心碎的哀号。哦，上帝，让这些可怜的白发消失吧，以证明他所遭受的苦难，他一生没有做错任何事，也承受了如此多的悲伤。

We men were all in tears now. There was no resisting them, and we wept openly. She wept, too, to see that her sweeter counsels had prevailed. Her husband flung himself on his knees beside her, and putting his arms round her, hid his face in the folds of her dress. Van Helsing beckoned to us and we stole out of the room, leaving the two loving hearts alone with their God.
我们男人现在都流泪了。没有人反抗，我们就当众哭泣。看到她的甜蜜劝告得到了采纳，她也哭了。她的丈夫跪在她身边，用双臂搂住她，把脸埋进她衣服的褶皱里。范海辛向我们招手，我们就偷偷溜出了房间，留下两颗相爱的心单独和他们的上帝在一起。

Before they retired the Professor fixed up the room against any coming of the Vampire, and assured Mrs. Harker that she might rest in peace. She tried to school herself to the belief, and manifestly for her husband’s sake, tried to seem content. It was a brave struggle, and was, I think and believe, not without its reward. Van Helsing had placed at hand a bell which either of them was to sound in case of any emergency. When they had retired, Quincey, Godalming, and I arranged that we should sit up, dividing the night between us, and watch over the safety of the poor stricken lady. The first watch falls to Quincey, so the rest of us shall be off to bed as soon as we can.
在他们退休之前，教授把房间布置得严严实实，以防吸血鬼的到来，并向哈克夫人保证她可以安息。她试图训练自己相信这一信念，显然是为了丈夫的缘故，试图表现得心满意足。这是一场勇敢的斗争，我认为并相信，并非没有回报。范海辛在手边放了一个铃，他们中的任何一个人都可以在发生紧急情况时按响铃。他们退休后，昆西、戈达尔明和我安排我们坐起来，分担夜晚的时间，看护这位可怜的受灾女士的安全。昆西最先值班，所以我们其他人应该尽快上床睡觉。

Godalming has already turned in, for his is the second watch. Now that my work is done I, too, shall go to bed.
戈达尔明已经上床睡觉了，因为他是第二班。现在我的工作完成了，我也该去睡觉了。

JONATHAN HARKER’S JOURNAL
乔纳森·哈克的日记

3-4 October, close to midnight.—I thought yesterday would never end. There was over me a yearning for sleep, in some sort of blind belief that to wake would be to find things changed, and that any change must now be for the better. Before we parted, we discussed what our next step was to be, but we could arrive at no result. All we knew was that one earth box remained, and that the Count alone knew where it was. If he chooses to lie hidden, he may baffle us for years. And in the meantime, the thought is too horrible, I dare not think of it even now. This I know, that if ever there was a woman who was all perfection, that one is my poor wronged darling. I loved her a thousand times more for her sweet pity of last night, a pity that made my own hate of the monster seem despicable. Surely God will not permit the world to be the poorer by the loss of such a creature. This is hope to me. We are all drifting reefwards now, and faith is our only anchor. Thank God! Mina is sleeping, and sleeping without dreams. I fear what her dreams might be like, with such terrible memories to ground them in. She has not been so calm, within my seeing, since the sunset. Then, for a while, there came over her face a repose which was like spring after the blasts of March. I thought at the time that it was the softness of the red sunset on her face, but somehow now I think it has a deeper meaning. I am not sleepy myself, though I am weary … weary to death. However, I must try to sleep. For there is tomorrow to think of, and there is no rest for me until …
10 月 3 日至 4 日，接近午夜。——我以为昨天永远不会结束。我渴望睡眠，盲目地相信醒来就会发现事情发生了变化，而现在的任何变化都必定是变得更好。临别前，我们讨论过下一步要做什么，但没有得出任何结果。我们只知道还剩下一个土箱，只有伯爵知道它在哪里。如果他选择隐藏起来，他可能会让我们困惑多年。同时，这个想法也太可怕了，我现在都不敢想。我知道，如果有一个女人是完美的，那她就是我可怜的、受委屈的亲爱的。因为她昨晚的甜蜜怜悯，我更加爱她一千倍，这种怜悯让我自己对怪物的仇恨显得卑鄙。上帝肯定不会允许世界因失去这样一个生物而变得更加贫穷。这对我来说是希望。现在我们都在向暗礁漂流，信仰是我们唯一的锚。感谢上帝！米娜正在睡觉，而且睡得没有梦。我担心她的梦会是什么样子，带着如此可怕的回忆。在我看来，自从日落以来，她就不再那么平静了。然后，有一段时间，她的脸上出现了一种平静，就像三月的狂风过后的春天。当时我以为那是夕阳红照在她脸上的柔和，但现在不知怎的，我觉得它有更深的含义。我自己并不困，尽管我很累……累得要死。不过，我必须努力睡觉。因为还有明天要考虑，我无法休息，直到……

Later—I must have fallen asleep, for I was awakened by Mina, who was sitting up in bed, with a startled look on her face. I could see easily, for we did not leave the room in darkness. She had placed a warning hand over my mouth, and now she whispered in my ear, ‘Hush! There is someone in the corridor!’ I got up softly, and crossing the room, gently opened the door.
后来——我一定是睡着了，因为我被从床上坐起来、一脸惊愕的米娜吵醒了。我看得很清楚，因为我们没有在黑暗中离开房间。她曾用一只手捂住我的嘴以示​​警告，现在她在我耳边低声说：‘嘘！走廊里有人！”我轻轻起身，穿过房间，轻轻地打开门。

Just outside, stretched on a mattress, lay Mr. Morris, wide awake. He raised a warning hand for silence as he whispered to me, ‘Hush! Go back to bed. It is all right. One of us will be here all night. We don’t mean to take any chances!’
莫里斯先生躺在外面的床垫上，完全醒着。他举起一只手警告我保持安静，同时低声对我说：“嘘！”回去睡觉吧。没关系，还不错。我们中的一个人将在这里待一整晚。我们不想冒险！”

His look and gesture forbade discussion, so I came back and told Mina. She sighed and positively a shadow of a smile stole over her poor, pale face as she put her arms round me and said softly, ‘Oh, thank God for good brave men!’ With a sigh she sank back again to sleep. I write this now as I am not sleepy, though I must try again.
他的表情和手势不允许讨论，所以我回来告诉米娜。她叹了口气，当她用双臂搂住我时，她可怜而苍白的脸上明显露出一丝微笑，轻声说道：“哦，感谢上帝赐予了勇敢的男人！”叹了口气，她又重新睡着了。我现在写这篇文章是因为我不困，但我必须再试一次。

4 October, morning.—Once again during the night I was wakened by Mina. This time we had all had a good sleep, for the grey of the coming dawn was making the windows into sharp oblongs, and the gas flame was like a speck rather than a disc of light.
10 月 4 日，早上。——夜里我再次被米娜叫醒。这次我们都睡了个好觉，因为即将到来的黎明的灰色使窗户变成了尖锐的长方形，而煤气火焰就像一个斑点而不是光盘。

She said to me hurriedly, ‘Go, call the Professor. I want to see him at once.’
她急忙对我说：‘你去叫教授吧。我想立刻见到他。

‘Why?’ I asked.
“为什么？”我问。

‘I have an idea. I suppose it must have come in the night, and matured without my knowing it. He must hypnotize me before the dawn, and then I shall be able to speak. Go quick, dearest, the time is getting close.’
'我有个主意。我想它一定是在夜间到来的，并且在我不知情的情况下成熟了。他必须在黎明前对我进行催眠，然后我才能说话。快点走吧，亲爱的，时间快到了。”

I went to the door. Dr. Seward was resting on the mattress, and seeing me, he sprang to his feet.
我走到门口。苏厄德医生正躺在床垫上，看到我，他跳了起来。

‘Is anything wrong?’ he asked, in alarm.
“有什么问题吗？”他惊慌地问道。

‘No,’ I replied. ‘But Mina wants to see Dr. Van Helsing at once.’
“不，”我回答道。 “但米娜想立即见范海辛医生。”

‘I will go,’ he said, and hurried into the Professor’s room.
“我去。”他说着就匆匆走进了教授的房间。

Two or three minutes later Van Helsing was in the room in his dressing gown, and Mr. Morris and Lord Godalming were with Dr. Seward at the door asking questions. When the Professor saw Mina a smile, a positive smile ousted the anxiety of his face.
两三分钟后，范海辛穿着晨衣出现在房间里，莫里斯先生和戈德尔明勋爵与苏厄德博士一起在门口提问。当教授看到米娜微笑时，积极的笑容驱散了他脸上的焦虑。

He rubbed his hands as he said, ‘Oh, my dear Madam Mina, this is indeed a change. See! Friend Jonathan, we have got our dear Madam Mina, as of old, back to us today!’ Then turning to her, he said cheerfully, ‘And what am I to do for you? For at this hour you do not want me for nothing.’
他搓着手说道：“噢，亲爱的米娜女士，这确实是一个改变。”看！朋友乔纳森，我们亲爱的米娜女士，就像以前一样，今天又回到了我们身边！”然后他转向她，高兴地说，“那我能为你做什么呢？因为在这个时候你不想白白得到我。

‘I want you to hypnotize me!’ she said. ‘Do it before the dawn, for I feel that then I can speak, and speak freely. Be quick, for the time is short!’ Without a word he motioned her to sit up in bed.
“我要你催眠我！”她说。 ‘在黎明之前做，因为我觉得那时我可以说话，而且可以自由地说话。快点，时间不多了！”他一言不发地示意她从床上坐起来。

Looking fixedly at her, he commenced to make passes in front of her, from over the top of her head downward, with each hand in turn. Mina gazed at him fixedly for a few minutes, during which my own heart beat like a trip hammer, for I felt that some crisis was at hand. Gradually her eyes closed, and she sat, stock still. Only by the gentle heaving of her bosom could one know that she was alive. The Professor made a few more passes and then stopped, and I could see that his forehead was covered with great beads of perspiration. Mina opened her eyes, but she did not seem the same woman. There was a far-away look in her eyes, and her voice had a sad dreaminess which was new to me. Raising his hand to impose silence, the Professor motioned to me to bring the others in. They came on tiptoe, closing the door behind them, and stood at the foot of the bed, looking on. Mina appeared not to see them. The stillness was broken by Van Helsing’s voice speaking in a low level tone which would not break the current of her thoughts.
他定定地看着她，开始在她面前从头顶向下，每只手轮流来回走动。米娜目不转睛地盯着他看了几分钟，这期间我的心跳得像锤子一样，因为我感到危机即将来临。渐渐地，她闭上了眼睛，一动不动地坐着。只有胸部轻轻的起伏，才能知道她还活着。教授又走了几圈才停了下来，我看到他的额头上布满了大汗珠。米娜睁开了眼睛，但她看起来已经不是原来的那个女人了。她的眼神里有一种遥远的神情，她的声音里有一种悲伤的梦境，这对我来说是新鲜的。教授举起手示意大家安静，示意我带其他人进来。他们踮起脚尖，关上身后的门，站在床脚旁看着。米娜似乎没有看到他们。范海辛低沉的声音打破了这份宁静，但这并没有打断她的思绪。

‘Where are you?’ The answer came in a neutral way.
“你在哪里？”回答是中性的。

‘I do not know. Sleep has no place it can call its own.’ For several minutes there was silence. Mina sat rigid, and the Professor stood staring at her fixedly.
'我不知道。睡眠没有自己的位置。”有几分钟的沉默。米娜僵硬地坐着，教授站在那里，目不转睛地盯着她。

The rest of us hardly dared to breathe. The room was growing lighter. Without taking his eyes from Mina’s face, Dr. Van Helsing motioned me to pull up the blind. I did so, and the day seemed just upon us. A red streak shot up, and a rosy light seemed to diffuse itself through the room. On the instant the Professor spoke again.
我们其余的人几乎不敢呼吸。房间里越来越亮了。范海辛医生的目光没有从米娜的脸上移开，示意我拉起百叶窗。我照做了，这一天似乎就快到了。一道红光冲天而起，玫瑰色的光芒似乎在房间里弥漫开来。就在教授再次说话的那一刻。

‘Where are you now?’
'你现在在哪里？'

The answer came dreamily, but with intention. It were as though she were interpreting something. I have heard her use the same tone when reading her shorthand notes.
答案是梦幻般的，但却是有意的。她仿佛在诠释着什么。我听到她在读速记笔记时也用同样的语气。

‘I do not know. It is all strange to me!’
'我不知道。这对我来说很奇怪！

‘What do you see?’
'你看到了什么？'

‘I can see nothing. It is all dark.’
‘我什么也看不见。天都黑了。

‘What do you hear?’ I could detect the strain in the Professor’s patient voice.
“你听到什么？”我能听出教授耐心的声音里的紧张。

‘The lapping of water. It is gurgling by, and little waves leap. I can hear them on the outside.’
‘水的拍击声。水流潺潺而过，小浪翻腾。我可以在外面听到他们的声音。

‘Then you are on a ship?’’
“那你在船上吗？”

We all looked at each other, trying to glean something each from the other. We were afraid to think.
我们都面面相觑，试图从对方身上找出一些东西。我们不敢去想。

The answer came quick, ‘Oh, yes!’
答案很快就来了：“哦，是的！”

‘What else do you hear?’
“你还听到什么？”

‘The sound of men stamping overhead as they run about. There is the creaking of a chain, and the loud tinkle as the check of the capstan falls into the ratchet.’
“人们奔跑时在头顶上跺脚的声音。链条发出嘎吱声，绞盘的卡爪落入棘轮时发出巨大的叮当声。

‘What are you doing?’
'你在干什么？'

‘I am still, oh so still. It is like death!’ The voice faded away into a deep breath as of one sleeping, and the open eyes closed again.
‘我依然，哦，如此静止。就像死亡一样！”声音渐渐消失，变成了熟睡时的深呼吸，睁开的眼睛又闭上了。

By this time the sun had risen, and we were all in the full light of day. Dr. Van Helsing placed his hands on Mina’s shoulders, and laid her head down softly on her pillow. She lay like a sleeping child for a few moments, and then, with a long sigh, awoke and stared in wonder to see us all around her.
这时，太阳已经升起，我们都沐浴在阳光下。范海辛医生将双手放在米娜的肩膀上，将她的头轻轻地放在枕头上。她像熟睡的孩子一样躺了一会儿，然后长长地叹了口气，醒了过来，惊讶地发现我们都在她身边。

‘Have I been talking in my sleep?’ was all she said. She seemed, however, to know the situation without telling, though she was eager to know what she had told. The Professor repeated the conversation, and she said, ‘Then there is not a moment to lose. It may not be yet too late!’
“我一直在说梦话吗？”她只说了这么一句话。然而，尽管她很想知道自己说了什么，但她似乎已经知道了情况。教授重复了刚才的对话，她说：“那就刻不容缓了。”也许还不算太晚！

Mr. Morris and Lord Godalming started for the door but the Professor’s calm voice called them back.
莫里斯先生和戈达明勋爵正要往门口走，但教授平静的声音把他们叫了回来。

‘Stay, my friends. That ship, wherever it was, was weighing anchor at the moment in your so great Port of London. Which of them is it that you seek? God be thanked that we have once again a clue, though whither it may lead us we know not. We have been blind somewhat. Blind after the manner of men, since we can look back we see what we might have seen looking forward if we had been able to see what we might have seen! Alas, but that sentence is a puddle, is it not? We can know now what was in the Count’s mind, when he seize that money, though Jonathan’s so fierce knife put him in the danger that even he dread. He meant escape. Hear me, ESCAPE! He saw that with but one earth box left, and a pack of men following like dogs after a fox, this London was no place for him. He have take his last earth box on board a ship, and he leave the land. He think to escape, but no! We follow him. Tally Ho! As friend Arthur would say when he put on his red frock! Our old fox is wily. Oh! So wily, and we must follow with wile. I, too, am wily and I think his mind in a little while. In meantime we may rest and in peace, for there are between us which he do not want to pass, and which he could not if he would. Unless the ship were to touch the land, and then only at full or slack tide. See, and the sun is just rose, and all day to sunset is us. Let us take bath, and dress, and have breakfast which we all need, and which we can eat comfortably since he be not in the same land with us.’
‘留下来，我的朋友们。那艘船，无论它在哪里，此刻都在你们伟大的伦敦港起锚。您要寻找其中的哪一个？感谢上帝，我们再次找到了一条线索，尽管我们不知道它会把我们引向何方。我们有些盲目了。就像人类一样盲目，既然我们可以回顾过去，我们就会看到我们向前看时可能会看到的东西，如果我们能够看到我们可能会看到的东西的话！唉，但这句话是个水坑，不是吗？我们现在可以知道伯爵夺取那笔钱时心里在想什么，尽管乔纳森凶猛的刀把他置于连他自己都害怕的危险之中。他的意思是逃跑。听我说，逃！他看到只剩下一个土箱了，一群人像狗一样追着狐狸，这个伦敦已经不再是他的地方了。他把最后一个土箱搬上了船，然后离开了陆地。他想逃跑，但是没有！我们跟着他。发现目标！正如朋友亚瑟穿上红色连衣裙时所说的那样！我们的老狐狸很狡猾。哦！如此狡猾，我们必须狡猾地跟随。我也是老谋深算，一会儿就想到了他的心思。与此同时，我们可以安息，因为我们之间有一些他不想通过的东西，如果他愿意的话他也不能通过。除非船要接触陆地，而且只能在满潮或平潮时才接触。看，太阳刚刚升起，从一整天到日落都是我们。让我们洗澡，穿衣服，吃早餐，这是我们都需要的，而且我们可以吃得很舒服，因为他和我们不在同一片土地上。

Mina looked at him appealingly as she asked, ‘But why need we seek him further, when he is gone away from us?’
米娜用恳求的目光看着他，问道：“但既然他已经离开我们了，我们为什么还需要进一步寻找他呢？”

He took her hand and patted it as he replied, ‘Ask me nothing as yet. When we have breakfast, then I answer all questions.’ He would say no more, and we separated to dress.
他握住她的手，拍了拍，回答道：“现在还什么都不问。”当我们吃早餐时，我会回答所有问题。”他不再多说，我们分开去穿衣服。

After breakfast Mina repeated her question. He looked at her gravely for a minute and then said sorrowfully, ‘Because my dear, dear Madam Mina, now more than ever must we find him even if we have to follow him to the jaws of Hell!’
早餐后，米娜重复了她的问题。他严肃地看了她一会儿，然后悲伤地说：“因为我亲爱的米娜女士，现在我们比以往任何时候都更必须找到他，即使我们必须跟随他到地狱之口！”

She grew paler as she asked faintly, ‘Why?’
她的脸色变得更加苍白，淡淡地问道：“为什么？”

‘Because,’ he answered solemnly, ‘he can live for centuries, and you are but mortal woman. Time is now to be dreaded, since once he put that mark upon your throat.’
“因为，”他严肃地回答，“他可以活几个世纪，而你只是凡人。”现在，时间是可怕的，因为他曾经把那个印记放在你的喉咙上。

I was just in time to catch her as she fell forward in a faint.
当她晕倒时，我正好接住了她。

Chapter 24
第24章

DR. SEWARD’S PHONOGRAPH DIARY
博士。苏厄德的留声机日记

SPOKEN BY VAN HELSING
范海辛发言

This to Jonathan Harker.
谨此致乔纳森·哈克。

You are to stay with your dear Madam Mina. We shall go to make our search, if I can call it so, for it is not search but knowing, and we seek confirmation only. But do you stay and take care of her today. This is your best and most holiest office. This day nothing can find him here.
你要和你亲爱的米娜女士住在一起。我们将去进行我们的探索，如果我可以这样称呼的话，因为这不是探索而是了解，而我们只是寻求确认。但今天你留下来照顾她吗？这是你最好、最神圣的办公室。今天，没有人能在这里找到他。

Let me tell you that so you will know what we four know already, for I have tell them. He, our enemy, have gone away. He have gone back to his Castle in Transylvania. I know it so well, as if a great hand of fire wrote it on the wall. He have prepare for this in some way, and that last earth box was ready to ship somewheres. For this he took the money. For this he hurry at the last, lest we catch him before the sun go down. It was his last hope, save that he might hide in the tomb that he think poor Miss Lucy, being as he thought like him, keep open to him. But there was not of time. When that fail he make straight for his last resource, his last earth-work I might say did I wish double entente. He is clever, oh so clever! He know that his game here was finish. And so he decide he go back home. He find ship going by the route he came, and he go in it.
让我告诉你，这样你就会知道我们四个人已经知道的事情，因为我已经告诉他们了。他，我们的敌人，已经走了。他已经回到了特兰西瓦尼亚的城堡。我对它了如指掌，就像有一只巨大的火手把它写在墙上一样。他已经以某种方式为此做好了准备，最后一个地球盒子已经准备好运送到某个地方。为此他拿了钱。为此，他最后要抓紧时间，以免我们在太阳下山之前抓住他。这是他最后的希望，除了他可以藏在坟墓里，他认为可怜的露西小姐，正如他所想的那样，对他保持开放。但没有时间了。当那次失败时，他径直走向他最后的资源，他最后的土方工作，我可以说我是否希望双方达成协议。他很聪明，哦，太聪明了！他知道他的游戏已经结束了。所以他决定回家。他发现船沿着他来的路线行驶，他就上了船。

We go off now to find what ship, and whither bound. When we have discover that, we come back and tell you all. Then we will comfort you and poor Madam Mina with new hope. For it will be hope when you think it over, that all is not lost. This very creature that we pursue, he take hundreds of years to get so far as London. And yet in one day, when we know of the disposal of him we drive him out. He is finite, though he is powerful to do much harm and suffers not as we do. But we are strong, each in our purpose, and we are all more strong together. Take heart afresh, dear husband of Madam Mina. This battle is but begun and in the end we shall win. So sure as that God sits on high to watch over His children. Therefore be of much comfort till we return.
我们现在出发去寻找哪艘船，以及开往何处。当我们发现这一点时，我们会回来告诉你们一切。然后我们会带着新的希望来安慰你和可怜的米娜女士。因为当你仔细思考时，你会发现一切都还没有失去。我们所追寻的这个生物，他花了数百年才到达伦敦。然而有一天，当我们得知他已被处置时，我们把他赶了出去。他是有限的，尽管他有能力造成很多伤害，并且不像我们那样受苦。但我们都很强大，每个人都有自己的目标，而且我们在一起会更加强大。振作起来吧，米娜女士亲爱的丈夫。这场战斗才刚刚开始，最终我们一定会获胜。神坐在高处看顾着他的儿女，这一点是肯定的。因此，在我们回来之前请放心。

VAN HELSING.
范海辛。

JONATHAN HARKER’S JOURNAL
乔纳森·哈克的日记

4 October.—When I read to Mina, Van Helsing’s message in the phonograph, the poor girl brightened up considerably. Already the certainty that the Count is out of the country has given her comfort. And comfort is strength to her. For my own part, now that his horrible danger is not face to face with us, it seems almost impossible to believe in it. Even my own terrible experiences in Castle Dracula seem like a long forgotten dream. Here in the crisp autumn air in the bright sunlight.
10 月 4 日——当我用留声机给米娜读范海辛的信息时，这个可怜的女孩一下子变得高兴起来。伯爵出国的确定性已经让她感到安慰。舒适对她来说就是力量。就我而言，既然他的可怕危险不再与我们面对面，我似乎几乎不可能相信它。就连我自己在德古拉城堡的可怕经历也像是一个早已被遗忘的梦。这里，秋日的空气清新，阳光明媚。

Alas! How can I disbelieve! In the midst of my thought my eye fell on the red scar on my poor darling’s white forehead. Whilst that lasts, there can be no disbelief. Mina and I fear to be idle, so we have been over all the diaries again and again. Somehow, although the reality seem greater each time, the pain and the fear seem less. There is something of a guiding purpose manifest throughout, which is comforting. Mina says that perhaps we are the instruments of ultimate good. It may be! I shall try to think as she does. We have never spoken to each other yet of the future. It is better to wait till we see the Professor and the others after their investigations.
唉!我怎能不信！正当我思考时，我的目光落在我可怜的宝贝雪白额头上的红色疤痕上。当这种情况持续下去时，就没有人会怀疑。米娜和我怕闲着，所以我们把所有的日记都翻了一遍又一遍。不知何故，尽管现实似乎每次都变得更加强烈，但痛苦和恐惧却似乎越来越少。贯穿始终的指导性目的显而易见，令人欣慰。米娜说，也许我们是终极善的工具。也许是吧！我会尝试像她一样思考。我们还没有互相谈论过未来。最好还是等教授等人调查完之后再说吧。

The day is running by more quickly than I ever thought a day could run for me again. It is now three o’clock.
这一天过得比我想象的还要快。现在是三点钟。

MINA HARKER’S JOURNAL
米娜·哈克的日记

5 October, 5 P.M.—Our meeting for report. Present: Professor Van Helsing, Lord Godalming, Dr. Seward, Mr. Quincey Morris, Jonathan Harker, Mina Harker.
10 月 5 日下午 5 点——我们的报告会议。出席者：范海辛教授、戈达尔明勋爵、苏厄德博士、昆西·莫里斯先生、乔纳森·哈克、米娜·哈克。

Dr. Van Helsing described what steps were taken during the day to discover on what boat and whither bound Count Dracula made his escape.
范海辛博士描述了白天采取了哪些步骤来查明德古拉伯爵乘坐哪艘船以及逃往何处。

‘As I knew that he wanted to get back to Transylvania, I felt sure that he must go by the Danube mouth, or by somewhere in the Black Sea, since by that way he come. It was a dreary blank that was before us. Omme Ignotum pro magnifico. And so with heavy hearts we start to find what ships leave for the Black Sea last night. He was in sailing ship, since Madam Mina tell of sails being set. These not so important as to go in your list of the shipping in the Times, and so we go, by suggestion of Lord Godalming, to your Lloyd’s, where are note of all ships that sail, however so small. There we find that only one Black Sea bound ship go out with the tide. She is the Czarina Catherine, and she sail from Doolittle’s Wharf for Varna, and thence to other ports and up the Danube. ‘So!’ said I, ‘this is the ship whereon is the Count.’ So off we go to Doolittle’s Wharf, and there we find a man in an office. From him we inquire of the goings of the Czarina Catherine. He swear much, and he red face and loud of voice, but he good fellow all the same. And when Quincey give him something from his pocket which crackle as he roll it up, and put it in a so small bag which he have hid deep in his clothing, he still better fellow and humble servant to us. He come with us, and ask many men who are rough and hot. These be better fellows too when they have been no more thirsty. They say much of blood and bloom, and of others which I comprehend not, though I guess what they mean. But nevertheless they tell us all things which we want to know.
“当我知道他想回到特兰西瓦尼亚时，我确信他必须经过多瑙河河口，或者黑海的某个地方，因为他是从那条路来的。我们面前是一片沉闷的空白。 Omme Ignotum pro magnifico。因此，我们怀着沉重的心情开始寻找昨晚有哪些船只驶往黑海。自从米娜女士讲述起航的事以来，他就在帆船上。这些都不重要，不如列入《泰晤士报》的航运清单，所以根据戈达尔明勋爵的建议，我们去了你们的劳合社，那里记录了所有航行的船只，无论多么小。在那里我们发现只有一艘开往黑海的船只随潮而出。她就是沙皇凯瑟琳号，从杜立特码头出发前往瓦尔纳，然后再前往其他港口并沿多瑙河而上。 “所以！”我说，“这就是伯爵所在的船。”于是我们前往杜立特码头，在那里我们发现办公室里有一个人。我们从他那里打听沙皇叶卡捷琳娜的近况。他脏话连连，脸色通红，声音很大，但他仍然是个好人。当昆西从口袋里掏出一些东西给他时，他把它卷起来，然后把它放进一个小袋子里，然后把它藏在衣服深处，他对我们来说仍然是更好的伙伴和谦卑的仆人。他和我们一起来，询问了许多粗暴而热情的男人。当他们不再口渴时，他们也会成为更好的人。他们说了很多关于鲜血和花朵的内容，还有其他一些我无法理解的内容，尽管我猜出它们的意思。但尽管如此，它们还是告诉了我们所有我们想知道的事情。

‘They make known to us among them, how last afternoon at about five o’clock comes a man so hurry. A tall man, thin and pale, with high nose and teeth so white, and eyes that seem to be burning. That he be all in black, except that he have a hat of straw which suit not him or the time. That he scatter his money in making quick inquiry as to what ship sails for the Black Sea and for where. Some took him to the office and then to the ship, where he will not go aboard but halt at shore end of gangplank, and ask that the captain come to him. The captain come, when told that he will be pay well, and though he swear much at the first he agree to term. Then the thin man go and some one tell him where horse and cart can be hired. He go there and soon he come again, himself driving cart on which a great box. This he himself lift down, though it take several to put it on truck for the ship. He give much talk to captain as to how and where his box is to be place. But the captain like it not and swear at him in many tongues, and tell him that if he like he can come and see where it shall be. But he say ‘no,’ that he come not yet, for that he have much to do. Whereupon the captain tell him that he had better be quick, with blood, for that his ship will leave the place, of blood, before the turn of the tide, with blood. Then the thin man smile and say that of course he must go when he think fit, but he will be surprise if he go quite so soon. The captain swear again, polyglot, and the thin man make him bow, and thank him, and say that he will so far intrude on his kindness as to come aboard before the sailing. Final the captain, more red than ever, and in more tongues, tell him that he doesn’t want no Frenchmen, with bloom upon them and also with blood, in his ship, with blood on her also. And so, after asking where he might purchase ship forms, he departed.
“他们让我们知道，昨天下午五点钟左右，一个人怎么这么匆忙。一个身材高大的男人，瘦削而苍白，鼻子高高的，牙齿洁白，眼睛里似乎有灼热的光芒。他一身黑，只是戴着一顶不适合他或那个时代的草帽。他把钱花在快速询问哪艘船驶往黑海以及前往何处。有人把他带到办公室，然后带到船上，他不会上船，而是停在跳板的岸边，请船长来找他。船长来了，当被告知他将得到丰厚的报酬时，尽管他一开始发誓很多，但他还是同意了任期。然后瘦子走过去，有人告诉他哪里可以租到马车。他去了那里，很快又回来了，他自己驾驶着一辆大车，车上放着一个大箱子。他亲自把它抬起来，尽管需要好几个人才能把它装上卡车运上船。他与队长多次讨论如何放置他的箱子以及放置在哪里。但船长不喜欢这样，用多种语言咒骂他，并告诉他，如果他愿意，他可以来看看它在哪里。但他说“不”，他还没有来，因为他还有很多事情要做。于是船长告诉他，他最好快点，带着血，因为他的船会在潮水转向之前带着血离开这个地方。然后瘦子微笑着说，当然，他认为合适的时候就必须走，但如果他走得这么快，他会感到惊讶。船长再次发誓，多国语言，瘦弱的男人让他鞠躬，感谢他，并说他会在开航前上船，这会侵犯他的好意。 最后，船长比以往更红，用更多的语言告诉他，他不想要任何法国人，他们身上有鲜花，也有血，在他的船上，她身上也有血。于是，在询问了哪里可以购买船舶表格后，他就离开了。

‘No one knew where he went ‘or bloomin’ well cared’ as they said, for they had something else to think of, well with blood again. For it soon became apparent to all that the Czarina Catherine would not sail as was expected. A thin mist began to creep up from the river, and it grew, and grew. Till soon a dense fog enveloped the ship and all around her. The captain swore polyglot, very polyglot, polyglot with bloom and blood, but he could do nothing. The water rose and rose, and he began to fear that he would lose the tide altogether. He was in no friendly mood, when just at full tide, the thin man came up the gangplank again and asked to see where his box had been stowed. Then the captain replied that he wished that he and his box, old and with much bloom and blood, were in hell. But the thin man did not be offend, and went down with the mate and saw where it was place, and came up and stood awhile on deck in fog. He must have come off by himself, for none notice him. Indeed they thought not of him, for soon the fog begin to melt away, and all was clear again. My friends of the thirst and the language that was of bloom and blood laughed, as they told how the captain’s swears exceeded even his usual polyglot, and was more than ever full of picturesque, when on questioning other mariners who were on movement up and down the river that hour, he found that few of them had seen any of fog at all, except where it lay round the wharf. However, the ship went out on the ebb tide, and was doubtless by morning far down the river mouth. She was then, when they told us, well out to sea.
正如他们所说，“没有人知道他去了哪里，或者‘盛开’得很好”，因为他们有别的事情要考虑，又是血。因为很快所有人都清楚沙皇凯瑟琳号不会按预期航行。一股薄雾开始从河里升起，而且越来越大。很快，浓雾笼罩了船和她的周围。船长发誓说多种语言，非常多种语言，充满鲜花和鲜血的多种语言，但他无能为力。水位不断上涨，他开始担心自己会完全失去潮水。他的心情并不友好，正当涨潮的时候，瘦子又走上跳板，要求看看他的箱子放在哪里。然后船长回答说，他希望他和他的盒子，老旧的，充满花朵和血迹的，都在地狱里。但瘦子并没有生气，他和大副一起下去看看它的位置，然后上来，在雾中的甲板上站了一会儿。他肯定是自己走下来的，因为没有人注意到他。事实上，他们并没有想到他，因为很快雾气就开始消散，一切又恢复了清晰。当我的朋友们在询问其他上下移动的水手时，口渴和语言是花朵和鲜血的语言的朋友们笑了起来，他们讲述了船长的咒骂如何超越了他通常的多语言能力，并且比以往任何时候都更加生动。那个时候在河边，他发现除了码头周围的雾气之外，他们中几乎没有人看到过雾气。然而，船在退潮时出航了，毫无疑问，到了早上就已驶入了河口深处。当他们告诉我们时，她已经出海了。

‘And so, my dear Madam Mina, it is that we have to rest for a time, for our enemy is on the sea, with the fog at his command, on his way to the Danube mouth. To sail a ship takes time, go she never so quick. And when we start to go on land more quick, and we meet him there. Our best hope is to come on him when in the box between sunrise and sunset. For then he can make no struggle, and we may deal with him as we should. There are days for us, in which we can make ready our plan. We know all about where he go. For we have seen the owner of the ship, who have shown us invoices and all papers that can be. The box we seek is to be landed in Varna, and to be given to an agent, one Ristics who will there present his credentials. And so our merchant friend will have done his part. When he ask if there be any wrong, for that so, he can telegraph and have inquiry made at Varna, we say ‘no,’ for what is to be done is not for police or of the customs. It must be done by us alone and in our own way.’
“所以，我亲爱的米娜女士，我们必须休息一段时间，因为我们的敌人在海上，在他的指挥下，正在前往多瑙河口的途中。开船需要时间，但她走得从来没有这么快。当我们开始更快地登陆陆地时，我们在那里遇见了他。我们最大的希望是在日出和日落之间在禁区里攻击他。这样他就不能再挣扎了，我们就可以按我们应该的方式对付他了。我们还有几天可以制定计划。我们知道他去了哪里。因为我们已经看到了船主，他向我们展示了发票和所有可以提供的文件。我们寻找的盒子将降落在瓦尔纳，并交给一名代理人，一名里斯提斯人，他将在那里出示他的证件。这样我们的商人朋友就尽了他的职责。当他询问是否有任何问题时，为此，他可以发电报并要求瓦尔纳进行询问，我们说“不”，因为要做的事情不是警察或海关的责任。这必须由我们单独以我们自己的方式来完成。”

When Dr. Van Helsing had done speaking, I asked him if he were certain that the Count had remained on board the ship. He replied, ‘We have the best proof of that, your own evidence, when in the hypnotic trance this morning.’
范海辛博士说完后，我问他是否确定伯爵还留在船上。他回答说：“我们有最好的证据，就是你今天早上在催眠状态下的证据。”

I asked him again if it were really necessary that they should pursue the Count, for oh! I dread Jonathan leaving me, and I know that he would surely go if the others went. He answered in growing passion, at first quietly. As he went on, however, he grew more angry and more forceful, till in the end we could not but see wherein was at least some of that personal dominance which made him so long a master amongst men.
我又问他是否真的有必要追捕伯爵，因为哦！我害怕乔纳森离开我，而且我知道如果其他人走了，他也一定会走。他的回答越来越热情，一开始只是安静地回答。然而，随着他继续说下去，他变得越来越愤怒，越来越强势，直到最后我们不得不看到，至少有一些个人的统治地位使他长期以来成为人类的大师。

‘Yes, it is necessary, necessary, necessary! For your sake in the first, and then for the sake of humanity. This monster has done much harm already, in the narrow scope where he find himself, and in the short time when as yet he was only as a body groping his so small measure in darkness and not knowing. All this have I told these others. You, my dear Madam Mina, will learn it in the phonograph of my friend John, or in that of your husband. I have told them how the measure of leaving his own barren land, barren of peoples, and coming to a new land where life of man teems till they are like the multitude of standing corn, was the work of centuries. Were another of the Undead, like him, to try to do what he has done, perhaps not all the centuries of the world that have been, or that will be, could aid him. With this one, all the forces of nature that are occult and deep and strong must have worked together in some wonderous way. The very place, where he have been alive, Undead for all these centuries, is full of strangeness of the geologic and chemical world. There are deep caverns and fissures that reach none know whither. There have been volcanoes, some of whose openings still send out waters of strange properties, and gases that kill or make to vivify. Doubtless, there is something magnetic or electric in some of these combinations of occult forces which work for physical life in strange way, and in himself were from the first some great qualities. In a hard and warlike time he was celebrate that he have more iron nerve, more subtle brain, more braver heart, than any man. In him some vital principle have in strange way found their utmost. And as his body keep strong and grow and thrive, so his brain grow too. All this without that diabolic aid which is surely to him. For it have to yield to the powers that come from, and are, symbolic of good. And now this is what he is to us. He have infect you, oh forgive me, my dear, that I must say such, but it is for good of you that I speak. He infect you in such wise, that even if he do no more, you have only to live, to live in your own old, sweet way, and so in time, death, which is of man’s common lot and with God’s sanction, shall make you like to him. This must not be! We have sworn together that it must not. Thus are we ministers of God’s own wish. That the world, and men for whom His Son die, will not be given over to monsters, whose very existence would defame Him. He have allowed us to redeem one soul already, and we go out as the old knights of the Cross to redeem more. Like them we shall travel towards the sunrise. And like them, if we fall, we fall in good cause.’
‘是啊，有必要，有必要，有必要！首先是为了你，然后是为了人类。这个怪物已经造成了很大的伤害，在他发现自己的狭窄范围内，在他还只是作为一个身体在黑暗中摸索着自己如此微小的尺度而不自知的短时间内。所有这些我都告诉了其他人。您，我亲爱的米娜女士，将在我朋友约翰的留声机或您丈夫的留声机中学到它。我已经告诉他们，离开他自己的贫瘠土地、贫瘠的人民，来到一片充满生命的新土地，直到他们像大量未收割的谷物一样，是几个世纪以来的工作。如果另一个亡灵像他一样尝试做他所做的事情，也许世界上已经或将来的所有世纪都无法帮助他。有了这个，所有神秘、深刻、强大的自然力量一定以某种奇妙的方式共同作用。就在他活了几个世纪的不死之地的地方，充满了地质和化学世界的陌生。这里有深邃的洞穴和裂缝，无人知道通向何处。这里曾经有过火山，其中一些火山口仍然喷出性质奇怪的水，以及致命或使人复活的气体。毫无疑问，在这些神秘力量的组合中，有一些磁性或电力的东西，它们以奇怪的方式对物质生命起作用，并且它本身从一开始就具有一些伟大的品质。在那个艰苦好战的年代，他庆幸自己比任何人都拥有更钢铁般的神经、更敏锐的大脑、更勇敢的心。在他身上，某种重要的原则以奇怪的方式发挥到了极致。随着他的身体保持强壮、成长和繁荣，他的大脑也会成长。所有这一切都没有对他来说无疑是恶魔般的帮助。 因为它必须屈服于来自善的象征的力量。现在这就是他对我们的意义。他已经感染了你，哦，请原谅我，亲爱的，我必须这么说，但我这样说是为了你好。他以这样的方式感染你，即使他不再做任何事情，你也只需要生活，以你自己古老而甜蜜的方式生活，因此，随着时间的推移，死亡，这是人类的共同命运，并得到上帝的认可，将会让你喜欢他。这一定不是！我们共同发誓绝不能这样做。因此，我们是上帝自己意愿的传道人。世界和他的儿子为之而死的人们，不会被恶魔所控制，因为它们的存在就会诽谤他。他已经允许我们救赎一个灵魂，我们作为十字路口的老骑士出去救赎更多的灵魂。像他们一样，我们将向着日出前进。和他们一样，如果我们跌倒，我们也是有充分理由跌倒的。’

He paused and I said, ‘But will not the Count take his rebuff wisely? Since he has been driven from England, will he not avoid it, as a tiger does the village from which he has been hunted?’
他停了下来，我说：“但是伯爵不会明智地接受他的拒绝吗？”既然他已经被赶出了英国，他难道不会像老虎躲避他被猎杀的村庄一样躲避它吗？

‘Aha!’ he said, ‘your simile of the tiger good, for me, and I shall adopt him. Your maneater, as they of India call the tiger who has once tasted blood of the human, care no more for the other prey, but prowl unceasing till he get him. This that we hunt from our village is a tiger, too, a maneater, and he never cease to prowl. Nay, in himself he is not one to retire and stay afar. In his life, his living life, he go over the Turkey frontier and attack his enemy on his own ground. He be beaten back, but did he stay? No! He come again, and again, and again. Look at his persistence and endurance. With the child-brain that was to him he have long since conceive the idea of coming to a great city. What does he do? He find out the place of all the world most of promise for him. Then he deliberately set himself down to prepare for the task. He find in patience just how is his strength, and what are his powers. He study new tongues. He learn new social life, new environment of old ways, the politics, the law, the finance, the science, the habit of a new land and a new people who have come to be since he was. His glimpse that he have had, whet his appetite only and enkeen his desire. Nay, it help him to grow as to his brain. For it all prove to him how right he was at the first in his surmises. He have done this alone, all alone! From a ruin tomb in a forgotten land. What more may he not do when the greater world of thought is open to him. He that can smile at death, as we know him. Who can flourish in the midst of diseases that kill off whole peoples. Oh! If such an one was to come from God, and not the Devil, what a force for good might he not be in this old world of ours. But we are pledged to set the world free. Our toil must be in silence, and our efforts all in secret. For in this enlightened age, when men believe not even what they see, the doubting of wise men would be his greatest strength. It would be at once his sheath and his armor, and his weapons to destroy us, his enemies, who are willing to peril even our own souls for the safety of one we love. For the good of mankind, and for the honour and glory of God.’
“啊哈！”他说，“你对老虎的比喻对我来说很好，我要收养他。”你的食人者，印度人对尝过人类血的老虎的称呼，不再关心其他猎物，而是不断地潜行，直到抓住他。我们从村子里猎到的这只老虎也是一只老虎，一只食人兽，而且他从不停止徘徊。不仅如此，他本人并不是一个会退休并远离的人。在他的一生中，他的一生中，他越过土耳其边境，在自己的土地上攻击敌人。他被打回去了，但他留下来了吗？不！他又来了，又来了，又来了。看看他的坚持和耐力。凭借着他的童心，他早已萌生了来到一座伟大城市的想法。他做什么的？他找到了世界上对他最有希望的地方。然后他刻意放下心来准备任务。他耐心地发现自己的力量有多大，他的力量有多大。他学习新语言。他学习新的社会生活、旧方式的新环境、政治、法律、金融、科学、新土地和新人民的习惯。他的这一瞥，只激发了他的胃口，增强了他的欲望。不，这有助于他的大脑成长。因为这一切都向他证明了他一开始的猜测是多么正确。这一切都是他一个人完成的，一个人完成的！来自被遗忘之地的一座废墟坟墓。当更广阔的思想世界向他敞开时，他还能做什么呢？正如我们所知，他能够对死亡微笑。谁能在夺去全体人民生命的疾病中蓬勃发展。哦！如果这样的人来自上帝，而不是魔鬼，那么在我们这个旧世界里，他可能不会成为一股多么好的力量啊。但我们承诺让世界自由。我们的辛劳必须是默默的，我们的努力必须是秘密的。 因为在这个启蒙时代，当人们连亲眼所见都不相信时，智者的怀疑将是他最大的力量。这将是他的鞘、他的盔甲和他的武器，用来毁灭我们，他的敌人，为了我们所爱之人的安全，我们甚至愿意冒着我们自己的灵魂的危险。为了人类的利益，为了上帝的荣誉和荣耀。’

After a general discussion it was determined that for tonight nothing be definitely settled. That we should all sleep on the facts, and try to think out the proper conclusions. Tomorrow, at breakfast, we are to meet again, and after making our conclusions known to one another, we shall decide on some definite cause of action …
经过一般性讨论后，决定今晚不会有任何明确的解决方案。我们都应该以事实为依据，并尝试得出正确的结论。明天早餐时，我们将再次见面，在彼此了解我们的结论后，我们将决定某种明确的行动理由……

I feel a wonderful peace and rest tonight. It is as if some haunting presence were removed from me. Perhaps …
今晚我感到非常平静和休息。就好像某种令人难以忘怀的存在从我身上消失了。也许 …

My surmise was not finished, could not be, for I caught sight in the mirror of the red mark upon my forehead, and I knew that I was still unclean.
我的猜测还没有结束，也不可能结束，因为我在镜子里看到了我额头上的红色印记，我知道我仍然不干净。

DR. SEWARD’S DIARY
博士。苏厄德的日记

5 October.—We all arose early, and I think that sleep did much for each and all of us. When we met at early breakfast there was more general cheerfulness than any of us had ever expected to experience again.
10 月 5 日——我们都起得很早，我认为睡眠对我们每个人都有很大的帮助。当我们在早餐时见面时，我们中的任何一个人都没有预料到会再次体验到更多的快乐。

It is really wonderful how much resilience there is in human nature. Let any obstructing cause, no matter what, be removed in any way, even by death, and we fly back to first principles of hope and enjoyment. More than once as we sat around the table, my eyes opened in wonder whether the whole of the past days had not been a dream. It was only when I caught sight of the red blotch on Mrs. Harker’s forehead that I was brought back to reality. Even now, when I am gravely revolving the matter, it is almost impossible to realize that the cause of all our trouble is still existent. Even Mrs. Harker seems to lose sight of her trouble for whole spells. It is only now and again, when something recalls it to her mind, that she thinks of her terrible scar. We are to meet here in my study in half an hour and decide on our course of action. I see only one immediate difficulty, I know it by instinct rather than reason. We shall all have to speak frankly. And yet I fear that in some mysterious way poor Mrs. Harker’s tongue is tied. I know that she forms conclusions of her own, and from all that has been I can guess how brilliant and how true they must be. But she will not, or cannot, give them utterance. I have mentioned this to Van Helsing, and he and I are to talk it over when we are alone. I suppose it is some of that horrid poison which has got into her veins beginning to work. The Count had his own purposes when he gave her what Van Helsing called ‘the Vampire’s baptism of blood.’ Well, there may be a poison that distills itself out of good things. In an age when the existence of ptomaines is a mystery we should not wonder at anything! One thing I know, that if my instinct be true regarding poor Mrs. Harker’s silences, then there is a terrible difficulty, an unknown danger, in the work before us. The same power that compels her silence may compel her speech. I dare not think further, for so I should in my thoughts dishonour a noble woman!
人性中竟然有如此强大的韧性，真是太神奇了。让任何阻碍因素，无论是什么，以任何方式消除，甚至通过死亡，我们都会飞回到希望和享受的首要原则。当我们围坐在桌子旁时，我不止一次地睁开眼睛，怀疑过去的一切是否都是一场梦。当我看到哈克夫人额头上的红斑时，我才回过神来。即使现在，当我严肃地思考这个问题时，几乎不可能意识到我们所有麻烦的根源仍然存在。就连哈克夫人似乎也有一段时间忽视了自己的麻烦。只有时不时地，当有什么东西想起时，她才会想起那可怕的伤疤。半小时后我们将在我的书房见面并决定我们的行动方针。我只看到一个迫在眉睫的困难，我凭本能而不是理性知道它。我们都必须坦诚地说话。但我担心可怜的哈克夫人会以某种神秘的方式被束缚住。我知道她有自己的结论，从所发生的一切中，我可以猜测它们一定是多么出色和真实。但她不会，或者不能，给他们发言权。我已经向范海辛提到了这一点，我和他将在独处时讨论这件事。我想是某种可怕的毒药已经进入她的血管开始起作用了。伯爵给她进行范海辛所谓的“吸血鬼血的洗礼”时有他自己的目的。好吧，可能有一种毒药可以从好东西中蒸馏出来。在肉毒素的存在还是个谜的时代，我们不应该对任何事情感到惊讶！我知道一件事，如果我对可怜的夫人的直觉是正确的。 哈克沉默了，然后我们面前的工作就出现了可怕的困难，未知的危险。迫使她沉默的力量也可能迫使她讲话。我不敢多想，因为这样我就应该侮辱一位高贵的女子！

Later.—When the Professor came in, we talked over the state of things. I could see that he had something on his mind, which he wanted to say, but felt some hesitancy about broaching the subject. After beating about the bush a little, he said, ‘Friend John, there is something that you and I must talk of alone, just at the first at any rate. Later, we may have to take the others into our confidence.’
后来——当教授进来时，我们讨论了事情的进展。我看得出他有话想说，但又犹豫是否要提起这个话题。绕了一会儿之后，他说：“约翰朋友，有件事你和我必须单独谈谈，无论如何，至少首先要谈谈。”稍后，我们可能不得不向其他人透露我们的秘密。

Then he stopped, so I waited. He went on, ‘Madam Mina, our poor, dear Madam Mina is changing.’
然后他停了下来，所以我等待。他接着说：“米娜女士，我们可怜、亲爱的米娜女士正在改变。”

A cold shiver ran through me to find my worst fears thus endorsed. Van Helsing continued.
我感到一阵冷颤，发现我最担心的事情得到了证实。范海辛继续说道。

‘With the sad experience of Miss Lucy, we must this time be warned before things go too far. Our task is now in reality more difficult than ever, and this new trouble makes every hour of the direst importance. I can see the characteristics of the vampire coming in her face. It is now but very, very slight. But it is to be seen if we have eyes to notice without prejudge. Her teeth are sharper, and at times her eyes are more hard. But these are not all, there is to her the silence now often, as so it was with Miss Lucy. She did not speak, even when she wrote that which she wished to be known later. Now my fear is this. If it be that she can, by our hypnotic trance, tell what the Count see and hear, is it not more true that he who have hypnotize her first, and who have drink of her very blood and make her drink of his, should if he will, compel her mind to disclose to him that which she know?’
“鉴于露西小姐的悲惨经历，我们这次必须得到警告，以免事情发展得太过分。”事实上，我们现在的任务比以往任何时候都更加困难，这种新的麻烦使每一个小时都变得极其重要。我可以从她的脸上看到吸血鬼的特征。现在只是非常非常轻微。但如果我们有眼睛不带偏见地观察的话，这一点是有待观察的。她的牙齿更锋利，有时她的眼睛也更冷酷。但这些还不是全部，她现在经常保持沉默，露西小姐也是如此。她没有说话，即使她写下她希望稍后知道的内容。现在我的恐惧是这样的。如果她能通过我们的催眠恍惚告诉伯爵看到和听到的东西，那么首先催眠她的人，喝了她的血并让她喝了他的血的人，难道不应该更真实吗？他会强迫她向他透露她所知道的事情吗？

I nodded acquiescence. He went on, ‘Then, what we must do is to prevent this. We must keep her ignorant of our intent, and so she cannot tell what she know not. This is a painful task! Oh, so painful that it heartbreak me to think of it, but it must be. When today we meet, I must tell her that for reason which we will not to speak she must not more be of our council, but be simply guarded by us.’
我点头默许。他接着说：“那么，我们必须做的就是防止这种情况发生。”我们必须让她不知道我们的意图，这样她就无法说出她不知道的事情。这是一项痛苦的任务！哦，真是痛苦得让我想起它就心碎，但它一定是。当今天我们见面时，我必须告诉她，出于我们不愿透露的原因，她不能更多地属于我们的议会，而只能由我们守护。

He wiped his forehead, which had broken out in profuse perspiration at the thought of the pain which he might have to inflict upon the poor soul already so tortured. I knew that it would be some sort of comfort to him if I told him that I also had come to the same conclusion. For at any rate it would take away the pain of doubt. I told him, and the effect was as I expected.
他擦了擦额头，一想到自己可能要给这个已经饱受折磨的可怜灵魂带来痛苦，额头就已经冒出了大汗。我知道，如果我告诉他我也得出了同样的结论，这对他来说会是某种安慰。无论如何，它会消除怀疑的痛苦。我告诉了他，效果正如我所料。

It is now close to the time of our general gathering. Van Helsing has gone away to prepare for the meeting, and his painful part of it. I really believe his purpose is to be able to pray alone.
现在已经接近我们全体聚会的时间了。范海辛已经离开去准备这次会议以及他在会议中的痛苦部分。我真的相信他的目的是能够独自祈祷。

Later.—At the very outset of our meeting a great personal relief was experienced by both Van Helsing and myself. Mrs. Harker had sent a message by her husband to say that she would not join us at present, as she thought it better that we should be free to discuss our movements without her presence to embarrass us. The Professor and I looked at each other for an instant, and somehow we both seemed relieved. For my own part, I thought that if Mrs. Harker realized the danger herself, it was much pain as well as much danger averted. Under the circumstances we agreed, by a questioning look and answer, with finger on lip, to preserve silence in our suspicions, until we should have been able to confer alone again. We went at once into our Plan of Campaign.
后来——在我们会议一开始，范海辛和我个人都感到了极大的放松。哈克夫人由她的丈夫发来消息，说她目前不会加入我们，因为她认为我们最好可以自由地讨论我们的行动，而不需要她在场，以免让我们难堪。教授和我对视了一眼，不知怎的，我们似乎都松了口气。就我个人而言，我认为如果哈克夫人自己意识到了危险，那么就可以避免很多痛苦和危险。在这种情况下，我们一致同意，通过一种询问的眼神和回答，用手指放在嘴唇上，对我们的怀疑保持沉默，直到我们能够再次单独商量。我们立即开始制定我们的竞选计划。

Van Helsing roughly put the facts before us first, ‘The Czarina Catherine left the Thames yesterday morning. It will take her at the quickest speed she has ever made at least three weeks to reach Varna. But we can travel overland to the same place in three days. Now, if we allow for two days less for the ship’s voyage, owing to such weather influences as we know that the Count can bring to bear, and if we allow a whole day and night for any delays which may occur to us, then we have a margin of nearly two weeks.
范海辛首先将事实粗略地摆在我们面前，“沙皇凯瑟琳号昨天早上离开了泰晤士河。”她将以有史以来最快的速度至少需要三周时间才能到达瓦尔纳。但我们可以在三天内通过陆路到达同一个地方。现在，如果由于我们知道伯爵可能造成的天气影响，我们的船的航行时间减少了两天，并且如果我们允许我们可能发生的任何延误一整天一夜，那么我们有近两周的余量。

‘Thus, in order to be quite safe, we must leave here on 17th at latest. Then we shall at any rate be in Varna a day before the ship arrives, and able to make such preparations as may be necessary. Of course we shall all go armed, armed against evil things, spiritual as well as physical.’
‘所以，为了安全起见，我们最迟必须在十七号离开这里。无论如何，我们将在船抵达前一天到达瓦尔纳，并能够做好必要的准备。当然，我们都应该武装起来，武装起来对抗邪恶的事物，无论是精神上的还是身体上的。

Here Quincey Morris added, ‘I understand that the Count comes from a wolf country, and it may be that he shall get there before us. I propose that we add Winchesters to our armament. I have a kind of belief in a Winchester when there is any trouble of that sort around. Do you remember, Art, when we had the pack after us at Tobolsk? What wouldn’t we have given then for a repeater apiece!’
昆西·莫里斯补充道：“据我所知，伯爵来自狼的国家，他可能会比我们先到达那里。”我建议我们在我们的军备中增加温彻斯特机枪。当周围出现任何此类麻烦时，我对温彻斯特有一种信念。阿特，你还记得我们在托博尔斯克时被狼群追赶的情景吗？那时我们何不为每人一个复读机付出一切呢！

‘Good!’ said Van Helsing, ‘Winchesters it shall be. Quincey’s head is level at times, but most so when there is to hunt, metaphor be more dishonour to science than wolves be of danger to man. In the meantime we can do nothing here. And as I think that Varna is not familiar to any of us, why not go there more soon? It is as long to wait here as there. Tonight and tomorrow we can get ready, and then if all be well, we four can set out on our journey.’
“很好！”范海辛说，“那就是温彻斯特吧。”昆西的头有时是水平的，但大多数时候是在打猎的时候，隐喻对科学的侮辱比狼对人类的危险还要严重。与此同时，我们在这里无能为力。我认为瓦尔纳对我们来说都不熟悉，为什么不早点去那里呢？这里等待的时间和那里等待的时间一样长。今晚和明天我们就可以做好准备，如果一切顺利的话，我们四人就可以出发了。”

‘We four?’ said Harker interrogatively, looking from one to another of us.
“我们四个人？”哈克疑惑地说，目光从我们一个人转向另一个人。

‘Of course!’ answered the Professor quickly. ‘You must remain to take care of your so sweet wife!’
“当然！”教授很快回答道。 “你必须留下来照顾你这么可爱的妻子！”

Harker was silent for awhile and then said in a hollow voice, ‘Let us talk of that part of it in the morning. I want to consult with Mina.’
哈克沉默了一会儿，然后用空洞的声音说道：“让我们早上再谈这部分吧。”我想和米娜商量一下。

I thought that now was the time for Van Helsing to warn him not to disclose our plan to her, but he took no notice. I looked at him significantly and coughed. For answer he put his finger to his lips and turned away.
我以为现在是范海辛警告他不要向她透露我们的计划的时候了，但他没有在意。我意味深长地看着他，咳嗽了一声。作为回答，他将手指放在嘴唇上，然后转过身去。

JONATHAN HARKER’S JOURNAL
乔纳森·哈克的日记

October, afternoon.—For some time after our meeting this morning I could not think. The new phases of things leave my mind in a state of wonder which allows no room for active thought. Mina’s determination not to take any part in the discussion set me thinking. And as I could not argue the matter with her, I could only guess. I am as far as ever from a solution now. The way the others received it, too puzzled me. The last time we talked of the subject we agreed that there was to be no more concealment of anything amongst us. Mina is sleeping now, calmly and sweetly like a little child. Her lips are curved and her face beams with happiness. Thank God, there are such moments still for her.
十月，下午。——今天早上我们见面后的一段时间里，我无法思考。事物的新阶段让我的头脑处于一种惊奇的状态，没有空间进行积极的思考。米娜决定不参与任何讨论，这让我开始思考。由于我无法与她争论这件事，所以我只能猜测。我现在距离解决方案还很远。其他人收到的方式也让我困惑。上次我们谈论这个话题时，我们一致认为我们之间不能再隐瞒任何事情。米娜现在正在睡觉，像个小孩子一样平静而甜蜜。她的嘴唇弯起，脸上洋溢着幸福的光芒。感谢上帝，她仍然有这样的时刻。

Later.—How strange it all is. I sat watching Mina’s happy sleep, and I came as near to being happy myself as I suppose I shall ever be. As the evening drew on, and the earth took its shadows from the sun sinking lower, the silence of the room grew more and more solemn to me.
后来——这一切是多么奇怪啊。我坐在那儿，看着米娜幸福地睡着，我自己也快要幸福起来了，我想我将永远如此。夜幕降临，太阳落下，大地的影子渐渐落下，房间里的寂静对我来说变得越来越庄严。

All at once Mina opened her eyes, and looking at me tenderly said, ‘Jonathan, I want you to promise me something on your word of honour. A promise made to me, but made holily in God’s hearing, and not to be broken though I should go down on my knees and implore you with bitter tears. Quick, you must make it to me at once.’
突然，米娜睁开了眼睛，温柔地看着我说：‘乔纳森，我希望你向我保证一件事。这是对我的承诺，但在上帝的耳中是神圣的，即使我跪下来流着苦涩的泪水恳求你，也不会违背这一承诺。快点，你必须立刻赶到我身边。”

‘Mina,’ I said, ‘a promise like that, I cannot make at once. I may have no right to make it.’
“米娜，”我说，“这样的承诺我不能立刻做出。”我可能没有权利这么做。

‘But, dear one,’ she said, with such spiritual intensity that her eyes were like pole stars, ‘it is I who wish it. And it is not for myself. You can ask Dr. Van Helsing if I am not right. If he disagrees you may do as you will. Nay, more if you all agree, later you are absolved from the promise.’
“但是，亲爱的，”她说道，她的眼睛就像北极星一样充满精神力量，“是我希望如此。”这不是为了我自己。如果我说得不对，你可以问范海辛博士。如果他不同意，你可以按照你的意愿去做。不，如果你们都同意的话，更多，以后你们就不再遵守承诺了。

‘I promise!’ I said, and for a moment she looked supremely happy. Though to me all happiness for her was denied by the red scar on her forehead.
“我保证！”我说道，有那么一刻，她看起来非常高兴。尽管对我来说，她额头上的红色疤痕否定了她的所有幸福。

She said, ‘Promise me that you will not tell me anything of the plans formed for the campaign against the Count. Not by word, or inference, or implication, not at any time whilst this remains to me!’ And she solemnly pointed to the scar. I saw that she was in earnest, and said solemnly, ‘I promise!’ and as I said it I felt that from that instant a door had been shut between us.
她说：“答应我，你不会告诉我任何针对伯爵的战役的计划。”不是通过言语，或推论，或暗示，在任何时候都不是，只要这对我来说！”她郑重地指着伤疤。我见她很认真，就郑重地说：“我保证！”当我说这句话的时候，我觉得从那一刻起，我们之间就关上了一扇门。

Later, midnight.—Mina has been bright and cheerful all the evening. So much so that all the rest seemed to take courage, as if infected somewhat with her gaiety. As a result even I myself felt as if the pall of gloom which weighs us down were somewhat lifted. We all retired early. Mina is now sleeping like a little child. It is wonderful thing that her faculty of sleep remains to her in the midst of her terrible trouble. Thank God for it, for then at least she can forget her care. Perhaps her example may affect me as her gaiety did tonight. I shall try it. Oh! For a dreamless sleep.
稍后，午夜。——米娜整个晚上都很开朗。以至于其他人似乎都需要勇气，仿佛被她的快乐所感染。连我自己都觉得压在我们身上的阴霾也减轻了一些。我们都提前退休了。米娜现在睡得像个小孩子。令人惊奇的是，在她遭受可怕的麻烦时，她的睡眠能力仍然存在。感谢上帝，至少她可以忘记她的关心。也许她的例子会像她今晚的快乐一样影响我。我会尝试一下。哦！为了无梦的睡眠。

6 October, morning.—Another surprise. Mina woke me early, about the same time as yesterday, and asked me to bring Dr. Van Helsing. I thought that it was another occasion for hypnotism, and without question went for the Professor. He had evidently expected some such call, for I found him dressed in his room. His door was ajar, so that he could hear the opening of the door of our room. He came at once. As he passed into the room, he asked Mina if the others might come, too.
10 月 6 日早上——又一个惊喜。米娜很早就叫醒了我，大约是昨天的时间，并让我带范海辛医生来。我以为又是一次催眠的机会，毫无疑问地去找了教授。他显然已经预料到会有这样的电话，因为我发现他在自己的房间里穿着衣服。他的门半开着，所以他能听到我们房间的门打开的声音。他立刻就来了。当他走进房间时，他问米娜其他人是否也可以一起来。

‘No,’ she said quite simply, ‘it will not be necessary. You can tell them just as well. I must go with you on your journey.’
“不，”她简单地说，“没有必要。”你也可以告诉他们。我必须和你一起踏上旅程。

Dr. Van Helsing was as startled as I was. After a moment’s pause he asked, ‘But why?’
范海辛博士和我一样震惊。停顿了一会儿，他问道：“但是为什么呢？”

‘You must take me with you. I am safer with you, and you shall be safer, too.’
‘你必须带我一起去。我和你在一起更安全，你也会更安全。

‘But why, dear Madam Mina? You know that your safety is our solemnest duty. We go into danger, to which you are, or may be, more liable than any of us from … from circumstances … things that have been.’ He paused embarrassed.
“但是为什么呢，亲爱的米娜女士？您知道，您的安全是我们最庄严的职责。我们陷入危险，你比我们任何人都更容易陷入危险，因为……环境……已经发生的事情。”他尴尬地停了下来。

As she replied, she raised her finger and pointed to her forehead. ‘I know. That is why I must go. I can tell you now, whilst the sun is coming up. I may not be able again. I know that when the Count wills me I must go. I know that if he tells me to come in secret, I must by wile. By any device to hoodwink, even Jonathan.’ God saw the look that she turned on me as she spoke, and if there be indeed a Recording Angel that look is noted to her ever-lasting honour. I could only clasp her hand. I could not speak. My emotion was too great for even the relief of tears.
她一边回答，一边抬起手指，指着自己的额头。 '我知道。这就是为什么我必须去。我现在可以在太阳升起的时候告诉你。我可能再也不能了。我知道如果伯爵愿意的话我就必须走。我知道，如果他让我秘密前来，我一定是用了诡计。上帝看到了她说话时转向我的眼神，如果确实有一位记录天使，那么这种眼神将会为她带来永远的荣耀。我只能握住她的手。我说不出话来。我的情绪太激动了，连眼泪都无法缓解。

She went on. ‘You men are brave and strong. You are strong in your numbers, for you can defy that which would break down the human endurance of one who had to guard alone. Besides, I may be of service, since you can hypnotize me and so learn that which even I myself do not know.’
她继续下去。 ‘你们这些人很勇敢，也很坚强。你们的人数众多，因为你们可以反抗那些足以摧毁那些必须独自守卫的人的耐力的力量。此外，我可能会有所帮助，因为你可以催眠我，从而了解连我自己都不知道的事情。

Dr. Van Helsing said gravely, ‘Madam Mina, you are, as always, most wise. You shall with us come. And together we shall do that which we go forth to achieve.’
范海辛博士严肃地说：“米娜女士，你一如既往地最聪明。”你要和我们一起来。我们将共同实现我们所要实现的目标。

When he had spoken, Mina’s long spell of silence made me look at her. She had fallen back on her pillow asleep. She did not even wake when I had pulled up the blind and let in the sunlight which flooded the room. Van Helsing motioned to me to come with him quietly. We went to his room, and within a minute Lord Godalming, Dr. Seward, and Mr. Morris were with us also.
当他说话时，米娜长时间的沉默让我看着她。她已经倒在枕头上睡着了。当我拉起百叶窗，让阳光洒满房间时，她甚至都没有醒来。范海辛示意我安静地跟他走。我们去了他的房间，不到一分钟，戈德尔明勋爵、苏厄德博士和莫里斯先生也和我们在一起了。

He told them what Mina had said, and went on. ‘In the morning we shall leave for Varna. We have now to deal with a new factor, Madam Mina. Oh, but her soul is true. It is to her an agony to tell us so much as she has done. But it is most right, and we are warned in time. There must be no chance lost, and in Varna we must be ready to act the instant when that ship arrives.’
他把米娜的话告诉了他们，然后继续说道。 “早上我们将前往瓦尔纳。我们现在要应对一个新因素，米娜女士。哦，但她的灵魂是真实的。告诉我们她所做的这么多事情对她来说是一种痛苦。但这是最正确的，而且我们得到了及时的警告。不能失去任何机会，在瓦尔纳，我们必须准备好在那艘船到达时立即采取行动。

‘What shall we do exactly?’ asked Mr. Morris laconically.
“我们到底该怎么办？”莫里斯先生简洁地问道。

The Professor paused before replying, ‘We shall at the first board that ship. Then, when we have identified the box, we shall place a branch of the wild rose on it. This we shall fasten, for when it is there none can emerge, so that at least says the superstition. And to superstition must we trust at the first. It was man’s faith in the early, and it have its root in faith still. Then, when we get the opportunity that we seek, when none are near to see, we shall open the box, and … and all will be well.’
教授顿了顿，回答道：“我们首先会登上那艘船。”然后，当我们确定了盒子后，我们将在上面放一根野玫瑰的树枝。我们应该牢牢记住这一点，因为当它存在时，就不会出现任何东西，所以至少迷信是这么说的。对于迷信，我们首先必须相信。这是人类早期的信仰，而且它的根源仍然存在于信仰之中。然后，当我们得到我们寻求的机会时，当没有人靠近时，我们将打开盒子，然后……一切都会好起来的。

‘I shall not wait for any opportunity,’ said Morris. ‘When I see the box I shall open it and destroy the monster, though there were a thousand men looking on, and if I am to be wiped out for it the next moment!’ I grasped his hand instinctively and found it as firm as a piece of steel. I think he understood my look. I hope he did.
“我不会等待任何机会，”莫里斯说。 “当我看到盒子时，我会打开它并消灭怪物，尽管有一千个人在看着，如果我下一刻就会因此而被消灭！”我本能地抓住了他的手，发现它坚如磐石。一块钢。我想他明白我的表情。我希望他做到了。

‘Good boy,’ said Dr. Van Helsing. ‘Brave boy. Quincey is all man. God bless him for it. My child, believe me none of us shall lag behind or pause from any fear. I do but say what we may do … what we must do. But, indeed, indeed we cannot say what we may do. There are so many things which may happen, and their ways and their ends are so various that until the moment we may not say. We shall all be armed, in all ways. And when the time for the end has come, our effort shall not be lack. Now let us today put all our affairs in order. Let all things which touch on others dear to us, and who on us depend, be complete. For none of us can tell what, or when, or how, the end may be. As for me, my own affairs are regulate, and as I have nothing else to do, I shall go make arrangements for the travel. I shall have all tickets and so forth for our journey.’
“好孩子，”范海辛博士说。 ‘勇敢的孩子。昆西是个男人。愿上帝保佑他。我的孩子，相信我，我们任何人都不会因恐惧而落后或停下来。我只是说我们可以做什么……我们必须做什么。但事实上，我们确实不能说我们可以做什么。可能发生的事情太多了，它们的方式和结局也各不相同，到目前为止我们还无法说清楚。我们都将以各种方式武装起来。当末日来临的时候，我们的努力不会缺乏。现在让我们把今天所有的事情都安排好。让一切与我们所爱的人以及我们所依赖的人相关的事情都变得完整。因为我们谁也不知道结局是什么、何时或如何。至于我，我自己的事情已经安排好了，也没什么事可做，我就去安排一下行程吧。我将拥有我们旅程的所有门票等。

There was nothing further to be said, and we parted. I shall now settle up all my affairs of earth, and be ready for whatever may come.
没什么可再说的，我们就分手了。我现在要处理好地上的所有事务，并为可能发生的一切做好准备。

Later.—It is done. My will is made, and all complete. Mina if she survive is my sole heir. If it should not be so, then the others who have been so good to us shall have remainder.
稍后——完成了。我的遗嘱已经立下，并且全部完成。米娜如果活下来就是我唯一的继承人。如果不是这样，那么其他对我们这么好的人就剩下了。

It is now drawing towards the sunset. Mina’s uneasiness calls my attention to it. I am sure that there is something on her mind which the time of exact sunset will reveal. These occasions are becoming harrowing times for us all. For each sunrise and sunset opens up some new danger, some new pain, which however, may in God’s will be means to a good end. I write all these things in the diary since my darling must not hear them now. But if it may be that she can see them again, they shall be ready. She is calling to me.
现在已经快要日落了。米娜的不安引起了我的注意。我相信，确切的日落时间会揭示她心中的某些想法。这些场合正在成为我们所有人的痛苦时刻。每一次日出和日落都会带来一些新的危险，一些新的痛苦，然而，按照上帝的旨意，这可能是达到良好目的的手段。我把这些事情都写在日记里，因为我亲爱的现在不能听到它们。但如果她能再次见到他们，他们就已经准备好了。她在呼唤我。

Chapter 25
第25章

DR SEWARD’S DIARY
苏厄德博士的日记

11 October, Evening.—Jonathan Harker has asked me to note this, as he says he is hardly equal to the task, and he wants an exact record kept.
10 月 11 日晚上。乔纳森·哈克 (Jonathan Harker) 让我记下这一点，因为他说他很难胜任这项任务，并且他希望保留准确的记录。

I think that none of us were surprised when we were asked to see Mrs. Harker a little before the time of sunset. We have of late come to understand that sunrise and sunset are to her times of peculiar freedom. When her old self can be manifest without any controlling force subduing or restraining her, or inciting her to action. This mood or condition begins some half hour or more before actual sunrise or sunset, and lasts till either the sun is high, or whilst the clouds are still aglow with the rays streaming above the horizon. At first there is a sort of negative condition, as if some tie were loosened, and then the absolute freedom quickly follows. When, however, the freedom ceases the change back or relapse comes quickly, preceded only by a spell of warning silence.
我想，当我们被要求在日落前不久去见哈克夫人时，我们都没有感到惊讶。我们最近才明白，日出和日落对她来说是特别自由的时刻。当她的旧自我可以显现出来，没有任何控制力量征服或约束她，或刺激她采取行动时。这种情绪或状况开始于实际日出或日落前大约半小时或更长时间，并持续到太阳高高挂起，或者云层仍因地平线以上的光线而发光。起初有一种消极的状态，就好像某些领带松了一样，然后绝对的自由很快就随之而来。然而，当自由停止时，变化很快就会回来，或者旧病复发，之前只会出现一段警告性的沉默。

Tonight, when we met, she was somewhat constrained, and bore all the signs of an internal struggle. I put it down myself to her making a violent effort at the earliest instant she could do so.
今晚，当我们见面时，她显得有些拘谨，并且充满了内心挣扎的迹象。我自己把这归因于她在最早的一瞬间就做出了猛烈的努力。

A very few minutes, however, gave her complete control of herself. Then, motioning her husband to sit beside her on the sofa where she was half reclining, she made the rest of us bring chairs up close.
然而，几分钟后，她就完全控制了自己。然后，她示意她的丈夫坐在她旁边的沙发上，她半靠在沙发上，然后让我们其他人把椅子搬过来。

Taking her husband’s hand in hers, she began, ‘We are all here together in freedom, for perhaps the last time! I know that you will always be with me to the end.’ This was to her husband whose hand had, as we could see, tightened upon her. ‘In the morning we go out upon our task, and God alone knows what may be in store for any of us. You are going to be so good to me to take me with you. I know that all that brave earnest men can do for a poor weak woman, whose soul perhaps is lost, no, no, not yet, but is at any rate at stake, you will do. But you must remember that I am not as you are. There is a poison in my blood, in my soul, which may destroy me, which must destroy me, unless some relief comes to us. Oh, my friends, you know as well as I do, that my soul is at stake. And though I know there is one way out for me, you must not and I must not take it!’ She looked appealingly to us all in turn, beginning and ending with her husband.
她握住丈夫的手，说道：“我们都自由地在一起，这也许是最后一次！”我知道你会永远和我在一起直到最后。”这是对她丈夫说的，正如我们所看到的，他的手已经在她身上收紧了。 “早上我们出去执行任务，只有上帝知道我们每个人会遇到什么。你会对我太好了，愿意带我一起去。我知道，勇敢而真诚的男人可以为一个可怜的软弱的女人做一切，她的灵魂也许已经迷失了，不，不，还没有，但无论如何都处于危险之中，你会做的。但你必须记住，我和你不一样。我的血液里、我的灵魂里有一种毒药，它可能会毁灭我，也一定会毁灭我，除非我们得到某种解脱。哦，我的朋友们，你们和我一样清楚，我的灵魂正处于危险之中。虽然我知道我有一条出路，但你不能，我也不能接受它！”她依次向我们所有人求助，从她丈夫开始到结束。

‘What is that way?’ asked Van Helsing in a hoarse voice. ‘What is that way, which we must not, may not, take?’
“那条路是什么？”范海辛用沙哑的声音问道。 “我们不可以、不可以走的那条路是什么？”

‘That I may die now, either by my own hand or that of another, before the greater evil is entirely wrought. I know, and you know, that were I once dead you could and would set free my immortal spirit, even as you did my poor Lucy’s. Were death, or the fear of death, the only thing that stood in the way I would not shrink to die here now, amidst the friends who love me. But death is not all. I cannot believe that to die in such a case, when there is hope before us and a bitter task to be done, is God’s will. Therefore, I on my part, give up here the certainty of eternal rest, and go out into the dark where may be the blackest things that the world or the nether world holds!’
“在更大的邪恶完全发生之前，我现在就可以死了，要么死在我自己的手上，要么死在别人的手上。”我知道，你也知道，如果我死了，你可以并且将会释放我不朽的灵魂，就像你释放我可怜的露西的灵魂一样。如果死亡，或者对死亡的恐惧，是唯一阻碍我的事情，我现在不会退缩死在这里，死在爱我的朋友们中间。但死亡还不是全部。我无法相信，在我们面前还有希望、还有艰巨的任务要完成的情况下，在这样的情况下死去是上帝的旨意。因此，就我而言，我放弃了永恒安息的确定性，走进了黑暗，那里可能是人间或阴间最黑暗的东西！

We were all silent, for we knew instinctively that this was only a prelude. The faces of the others were set, and Harker’s grew ashen grey. Perhaps, he guessed better than any of us what was coming.
我们都沉默了，因为我们本能地知道这只是前奏。其他人的脸色都凝固了，哈克的脸色变得灰白。也许，他比我们任何人都更能猜到接下来会发生什么。

She continued, ‘This is what I can give into the hotch-pot.’ I could not but note the quaint legal phrase which she used in such a place, and with all seriousness. ‘What will each of you give? Your lives I know,’ she went on quickly, ‘that is easy for brave men. Your lives are God’s, and you can give them back to Him, but what will you give to me?’ She looked again questioningly, but this time avoided her husband’s face. Quincey seemed to understand, he nodded, and her face lit up. ‘Then I shall tell you plainly what I want, for there must be no doubtful matter in this connection between us now. You must promise me, one and all, even you, my beloved husband, that should the time come, you will kill me.’
她继续说道，“这就是我可以投入大锅饭的东西。”我不得不注意到她在这种地方使用的古怪的法律用语，而且非常严肃。 ‘你们每个人都会奉献什么？我知道你们的生活，”她很快地继续说道，“对于勇敢的人来说，这很容易。你的生命是上帝的，你可以把它们还给他，但你能给我什么呢？”她再次疑惑地看着，但这一次避开了她丈夫的脸。昆西似乎明白了，他点了点头，她的脸亮了起来。 “那么我就明确地告诉你我想要什么，因为现在我们之间的关系肯定没有任何疑问了。你必须向我保证，甚至你，我心爱的丈夫，一一答应，到时候，你会杀了我。”

‘What is that time?’ The voice was Quincey’s, but it was low and strained.
“那是什么时间了？”那是昆西的声音，但低沉而紧张。

‘When you shall be convinced that I am so changed that it is better that I die that I may live. When I am thus dead in the flesh, then you will, without a moment’s delay, drive a stake through me and cut off my head, or do whatever else may be wanting to give me rest!’
‘当你确信我已经发生了如此大的变化，我宁可死，也可​​以活下去。当我的肉体就这样死去时，你就会立即用一根木桩穿过我，砍下我的头，或者做任何其他能让我休息的事情！

Quincey was the first to rise after the pause. He knelt down before her and taking her hand in his said solemnly, ‘I’m only a rough fellow, who hasn’t, perhaps, lived as a man should to win such a distinction, but I swear to you by all that I hold sacred and dear that, should the time ever come, I shall not flinch from the duty that you have set us. And I promise you, too, that I shall make all certain, for if I am only doubtful I shall take it that the time has come!’
暂停后，昆西第一个站起来。他在她面前跪下，握住她的手，庄重地说：“我只是一个粗鲁的人，也许没有像一个男人应该的那样生活来赢得这样的荣誉，但我向你发誓，我所做的一切。”神圣而亲爱的，如果时机到来，我将不会畏缩于您赋予我们的职责。我也向你保证，我会确定一切，因为如果我只是怀疑，我会认为时机已经到了！

‘My true friend!’ was all she could say amid her fast-falling tears, as bending over, she kissed his hand.
“我真正的朋友！”她在快速落下的泪水中只能说出这句话，同时弯下腰，亲吻了他的手。

‘I swear the same, my dear Madam Mina!’ said Van Helsing. ‘And I!’ said Lord Godalming, each of them in turn kneeling to her to take the oath. I followed, myself.
“我也发誓，亲爱的米娜女士！”范海辛说道。 “还有我！”戈达尔明勋爵说道，他们每个人依次向她跪下宣誓。我自己也跟着。

Then her husband turned to her wan-eyed and with a greenish pallor which subdued the snowy whiteness of his hair, and asked, ‘And must I, too, make such a promise, oh, my wife?’
然后她的丈夫转向她，眼神苍白，脸色苍白，雪白的头发黯然失色，问道：“哦，我的妻子，我也必须做出这样的承诺吗？”

‘You too, my dearest,’ she said, with infinite yearning of pity in her voice and eyes. ‘You must not shrink. You are nearest and dearest and all the world to me. Our souls are knit into one, for all life and all time. Think, dear, that there have been times when brave men have killed their wives and their womenkind, to keep them from falling into the hands of the enemy. Their hands did not falter any the more because those that they loved implored them to slay them. It is men’s duty towards those whom they love, in such times of sore trial! And oh, my dear, if it is to be that I must meet death at any hand, let it be at the hand of him that loves me best. Dr. Van Helsing, I have not forgotten your mercy in poor Lucy’s case to him who loved.’ She stopped with a flying blush, and changed her phrase, ‘to him who had best right to give her peace. If that time shall come again, I look to you to make it a happy memory of my husband’s life that it was his loving hand which set me free from the awful thrall upon me.’
“你也是，我最亲爱的，”她说，声音和眼神中都充满了无限的怜悯。 ‘你一定不能退缩。你对我来说是最亲近、最亲爱的，是整个世界。我们的灵魂永远融为一体。亲爱的，想一想，曾经有过勇敢的男人杀死他们的妻子和妇女，以防止她们落入敌人手中的情况。他们的手不再颤抖，因为他们所爱的人恳求他们杀死他们。在如此痛苦的考验时刻，这是男人对他们所爱的人的责任！哦，亲爱的，如果我一定要死在任何一方，那就让它死在最爱我的人的手上吧。范海辛医生，我没有忘记你在可怜的露西的案件中对那个有爱的人的仁慈。”她脸红了，停了下来，改变了措辞，“对最有权给她平安的人。如果那一天再次到来，我希望你能成为我丈夫一生的美好回忆，因为是他慈爱的手将我从可怕的束缚中解放了出来。

‘Again I swear!’ came the Professor’s resonant voice.
“我再次发誓！”教授洪亮的声音传来。

Mrs. Harker smiled, positively smiled, as with a sigh of relief she leaned back and said, ‘And now one word of warning, a warning which you must never forget. This time, if it ever come, may come quickly and unexpectedly, and in such case you must lose no time in using your opportunity. At such a time I myself might be … nay! If the time ever come, shall be, leagued with your enemy against you.
哈克夫人笑了，笑容灿烂，她松了一口气，靠在椅背上说道：“现在有一个警告，一个你永远不能忘记的警告。”这一次，如果它真的到来的话，可能会来得很快而且出乎意料，在这种情况下，你一定要抓紧时间利用你的机会。在这种时候我自己可能会……不！如果时机成熟，我将与你的敌人结盟来对抗你。

‘One more request,’ she became very solemn as she said this, ‘it is not vital and necessary like the other, but I want you to do one thing for me, if you will.’
“还有一个请求，”她说这句话时变得非常严肃，“这并不像另一个请求那样重要和必要，但我希望你为我做一件事，如果你愿意的话。”

We all acquiesced, but no one spoke. There was no need to speak.
我们都默认了，但没有人说话。没必要说话。

‘I want you to read the Burial Service.’ She was interrupted by a deep groan from her husband. Taking his hand in hers, she held it over her heart, and continued. ‘You must read it over me some day. Whatever may be the issue of all this fearful state of things, it will be a sweet thought to all or some of us. You, my dearest, will I hope read it, for then it will be in your voice in my memory forever, come what may!’
“我想让你读一下《葬礼》。”她被丈夫的一声低沉的呻吟打断了。她握住他的手，放在胸前，继续说道。 ‘总有一天你一定要读给我听。无论所有这些可怕的事态造成的问题是什么，这对我们所有人或某些人来说都是一个甜蜜的想法。我最亲爱的，我希望你能读到它，因为无论发生什么，它都会永远以你的声音出现在我的记忆中！

‘But oh, my dear one,’ he pleaded, ‘death is afar off from you.’
“但是哦，亲爱的，”他恳求道，“死亡离你很远。”

‘Nay,’ she said, holding up a warning hand. ‘I am deeper in death at this moment than if the weight of an earthly grave lay heavy upon me!’
“不，”她举起警告的手说道。 “此时此刻，我的死亡比地上坟墓的重量还重！”

‘Oh, my wife, must I read it?’ he said, before he began.
“哦，我的妻子，我必须读它吗？”他在开始之前说道。

‘It would comfort me, my husband!’ was all she said, and he began to read when she had got the book ready.
她只说了一句：“这会让我感到安慰，我的丈夫！”当她准备好书时，他开始读。

How can I, how could anyone, tell of that strange scene, its solemnity, its gloom, its sadness, its horror, and withal, its sweetness. Even a sceptic, who can see nothing but a travesty of bitter truth in anything holy or emotional, would have been melted to the heart had he seen that little group of loving and devoted friends kneeling round that stricken and sorrowing lady. Or heard the tender passion of her husband’s voice, as in tones so broken and emotional that often he had to pause, he read the simple and beautiful service from the Burial of the Dead. I cannot go on … words … and v-voices … f-fail m-me!
我怎样才能、怎样的人能够讲述那个奇怪的场景，它的庄严，它的阴郁，它的悲伤，它的恐怖，还有它的甜蜜。即使是一个怀疑论者，他在任何神圣或感性的事物中都只能看到对苦涩真理的嘲弄，如果他看到那一小群充满爱心和忠诚的朋友跪在那位受打击和悲伤的女士身边，他的心也会融化。或者听到她丈夫温柔而热情的声音，他的语气如此破碎和情绪化，以至于他常常不得不停下来，读着《死者葬礼》中简单而美丽的仪式。我无法继续……言语……和v-声音……f-fail m-me！

She was right in her instinct. Strange as it was, bizarre as it may hereafter seem even to us who felt its potent influence at the time, it comforted us much. And the silence, which showed Mrs. Harker’s coming relapse from her freedom of soul, did not seem so full of despair to any of us as we had dreaded.
她的直觉是对的。尽管这很奇怪，即使对于当时感受到其强大影响的我们来说，以后也可能会觉得奇怪，但它给了我们很大的安慰。沉默表明哈克夫人的灵魂自由即将复发，但对我们任何人来说，这似乎并不像我们所害怕的那样充满绝望。

JONATHAN HARKER’S JOURNAL
乔纳森·哈克的日记

15 October, Varna.—We left Charing Cross on the morning of the 12th, got to Paris the same night, and took the places secured for us in the Orient Express. We traveled night and day, arriving here at about five o’clock. Lord Godalming went to the Consulate to see if any telegram had arrived for him, whilst the rest of us came on to this hotel, ‘the Odessus.’ The journey may have had incidents. I was, however, too eager to get on, to care for them. Until the Czarina Catherine comes into port there will be no interest for me in anything in the wide world. Thank God! Mina is well, and looks to be getting stronger. Her colour is coming back. She sleeps a great deal. Throughout the journey she slept nearly all the time. Before sunrise and sunset, however, she is very wakeful and alert. And it has become a habit for Van Helsing to hypnotize her at such times. At first, some effort was needed, and he had to make many passes. But now, she seems to yield at once, as if by habit, and scarcely any action is needed. He seems to have power at these particular moments to simply will, and her thoughts obey him. He always asks her what she can see and hear.
10 月 15 日，瓦尔纳——我们于 12 日早上离开查令十字车站，当晚到达巴黎，并在东方快车上为我们预留了座位。我们日夜兼程，五点左右到达这里。戈达尔明勋爵前往领事馆查看是否有任何电报到达，而我们其他人则来到了这家“奥德苏斯”酒店。旅途中可能发生了一些意外。然而，我太急于与他们相处，无法照顾他们。在沙皇凯瑟琳号进港之前，我对外面的世界不会有任何兴趣。感谢上帝！米娜很好，而且看起来越来越强壮。她的颜色又回来了。她睡得很多。整个旅途中，她几乎一直在睡觉。然而，在日出和日落之前，她非常清醒和警觉。而这种时候对她进行催眠已经成为范海辛的习惯。起初，需要付出一些努力，他必须传球很多次。但现在，她似乎立刻就屈服了，就像习惯了一样，几乎不需要采取任何行动。在这些特定的时刻，他似乎有能力简单地表达自己的意愿，而她的思想也服从他。他总是问她能看到什么、听到什么。

She answers to the first, ‘Nothing, all is dark.’
她对第一个问题的回答是：“什么都没有，一切都是黑暗的。”

And to the second, ‘I can hear the waves lapping against the ship, and the water rushing by. Canvas and cordage strain and masts and yards creak. The wind is high … I can hear it in the shrouds, and the bow throws back the foam.’
对于第二个，“我能听到海浪拍打着船，水流汹涌而过。”帆布和绳索拉紧，桅杆和帆桁吱吱作响。风很大……我可以在裹尸布里听到风声，船头将泡沫抛开。

It is evident that the Czarina Catherine is still at sea, hastening on her way to Varna. Lord Godalming has just returned. He had four telegrams, one each day since we started, and all to the same effect. That the Czarina Catherine had not been reported to Lloyd’s from anywhere. He had arranged before leaving London that his agent should send him every day a telegram saying if the ship had been reported. He was to have a message even if she were not reported, so that he might be sure that there was a watch being kept at the other end of the wire.
显然，沙皇凯瑟琳号仍在海上，正赶赴瓦尔纳。戈达尔明勋爵刚刚回来。他收到了四封电报，从我们开始以来每天一封，而且都是为了同样的目的。沙皇凯瑟琳没有从任何地方向劳合社报告。在离开伦敦之前，他已安排他的代理人每天给他发一封电报，说明该船是否已被报告。即使她没有被报告，他也要传达一个消息，这样他就可以确定电线的另一端有人值班。

We had dinner and went to bed early. Tomorrow we are to see the Vice Consul, and to arrange, if we can, about getting on board the ship as soon as she arrives. Van Helsing says that our chance will be to get on the boat between sunrise and sunset. The Count, even if he takes the form of a bat, cannot cross the running water of his own volition, and so cannot leave the ship. As he dare not change to man’s form without suspicion, which he evidently wishes to avoid, he must remain in the box. If, then, we can come on board after sunrise, he is at our mercy, for we can open the box and make sure of him, as we did of poor Lucy, before he wakes. What mercy he shall get from us all will not count for much. We think that we shall not have much trouble with officials or the seamen. Thank God! This is the country where bribery can do anything, and we are well supplied with money. We have only to make sure that the ship cannot come into port between sunset and sunrise without our being warned, and we shall be safe. Judge Moneybag will settle this case, I think!
我们吃完晚饭就早早上床睡觉了。明天我们要去见副领事，如果可以的话，我们会在她一到就安排上船。范海辛说我们的机会是在日出和日落之间上船。伯爵即使变成了蝙蝠，也无法凭自己的意志穿过流水，因此也无法离开船。由于他不敢在没有怀疑的情况下变成人类形态，而他显然希望避免这种情况，因此他必须留在盒子里。那么，如果我们能在日出后上船，他就任由我们摆布，因为我们可以在他醒来之前打开盒子并确认他的情况，就像我们对可怜的露西所做的那样。他从我们所有人那里得到什么怜悯并不重要。我们认为我们不会与官员或海员发生太多麻烦。感谢上帝！这是一个贿赂可以为所欲为的国家，而且我们有充足的资金。我们只要确保船在没有得到警告的情况下在日落和日出之间不能进港，我们就会安全。我想，钱袋法官会解决这个案子的！

16 October.—Mina’s report still the same. Lapping waves and rushing water, darkness and favouring winds. We are evidently in good time, and when we hear of the Czarina Catherine we shall be ready. As she must pass the Dardanelles we are sure to have some report.
10 月 16 日——米娜的报告还是一样。拍打着的波浪和湍急的水流，黑暗和顺风。显然，我们来得正是时候，当我们听到沙皇凯瑟琳的消息时，我们就会做好准备。由于她必须通过达达尼尔海峡，我们肯定会收到一些报告。

17 October.—Everything is pretty well fixed now, I think, to welcome the Count on his return from his tour. Godalming told the shippers that he fancied that the box sent aboard might contain something stolen from a friend of his, and got a half consent that he might open it at his own risk. The owner gave him a paper telling the Captain to give him every facility in doing whatever he chose on board the ship, and also a similar authorization to his agent at Varna. We have seen the agent, who was much impressed with Godalming’s kindly manner to him, and we are all satisfied that whatever he can do to aid our wishes will be done.
10 月 17 日——我认为现在一切都已经安排妥当，欢迎伯爵旅行归来。戈德尔明告诉托运人，他认为寄上船的盒子里可能装着从他朋友那里偷来的东西，并得到了半数同意，他可以自行承担风险打开它。船东给了他一份文件，告诉船长为他在船上做任何他选择的事情提供一切便利，并向他在瓦尔纳的代理人提供了类似的授权。我们见到了代理人，戈达尔明对他的友善态度给他留下了深刻的印象，我们都很满意，无论他能做什么来帮助我们实现愿望，我们都会做到。

We have already arranged what to do in case we get the box open. If the Count is there, Van Helsing and Seward will cut off his head at once and drive a stake through his heart. Morris and Godalming and I shall prevent interference, even if we have to use the arms which we shall have ready. The Professor says that if we can so treat the Count’s body, it will soon after fall into dust. In such case there would be no evidence against us, in case any suspicion of murder were aroused. But even if it were not, we should stand or fall by our act, and perhaps some day this very script may be evidence to come between some of us and a rope. For myself, I should take the chance only too thankfully if it were to come. We mean to leave no stone unturned to carry out our intent. We have arranged with certain officials that the instant the Czarina Catherine is seen, we are to be informed by a special messenger.
我们已经安排好万一打开盒子后该怎么做。如果伯爵在场，范海辛和苏厄德会立即砍下他的头，并用一根木桩刺穿他的心脏。莫里斯、戈德尔明和我将阻止干扰，即使我们必须使用我们已经准备好的武器。教授说，如果我们能这样对待伯爵的尸体，它很快就会化为尘埃。在这种情况下，万一引起任何谋杀嫌疑，就没有对我们不利的证据了。但即使不是，我们的成败也取决于我们的行为，也许有一天，这个剧本可能会成为我们中的一些人与一根绳子之间的证据。对于我自己来说，如果机会真的到来，我应该非常庆幸地抓住这个机会。我们打算不遗余力地实现我们的意图。我们已经与某些官员商定，一旦看到沙皇叶卡捷琳娜，就会有一名特别的信使通知我们。

24 October.—A whole week of waiting. Daily telegrams to Godalming, but only the same story. ‘Not yet reported.’ Mina’s morning and evening hypnotic answer is unvaried. Lapping waves, rushing water, and creaking masts.
10 月 24 日——整整一周的等待。每天给戈德尔明发电报，但都是同样的故事。 “尚未报道。”米娜早晚催眠般的回答没有变化。海浪拍打着，水流湍急，桅杆吱吱作响。

TELEGRAM, OCTOBER 24TH RUFUS SMITH, LLOYD’S, LONDON, TO LORD GODALMING, CARE OF H. B. M. VICE CONSUL, VARNA
10 月 24 日电报 伦敦劳合社鲁弗斯·史密斯致戈达尔明勋爵，转交瓦尔纳 H.B.M. 副领事

‘Czarina Catherine reported this morning from Dardanelles.’
“沙皇凯瑟琳今天早上从达达尼尔海峡报道。”

DR. SEWARD’S DIARY
博士。苏厄德的日记

25 October.—How I miss my phonograph! To write a diary with a pen is irksome to me! But Van Helsing says I must. We were all wild with excitement yesterday when Godalming got his telegram from Lloyd’s. I know now what men feel in battle when the call to action is heard. Mrs. Harker, alone of our party, did not show any signs of emotion. After all, it is not strange that she did not, for we took special care not to let her know anything about it, and we all tried not to show any excitement when we were in her presence. In old days she would, I am sure, have noticed, no matter how we might have tried to conceal it. But in this way she is greatly changed during the past three weeks. The lethargy grows upon her, and though she seems strong and well, and is getting back some of her colour, Van Helsing and I are not satisfied. We talk of her often. We have not, however, said a word to the others. It would break poor Harker’s heart, certainly his nerve, if he knew that we had even a suspicion on the subject. Van Helsing examines, he tells me, her teeth very carefully, whilst she is in the hypnotic condition, for he says that so long as they do not begin to sharpen there is no active danger of a change in her. If this change should come, it would be necessary to take steps! We both know what those steps would have to be, though we do not mention our thoughts to each other. We should neither of us shrink from the task, awful though it be to contemplate. ‘Euthanasia’ is an excellent and a comforting word! I am grateful to whoever invented it.
10 月 25 日——我多么想念我的留声机啊！用钢笔写日记对我来说很烦人！但范海辛说我必须这么做。昨天，当戈达尔明收到劳合社发来的电报时，我们都兴奋不已。我现在知道人们在战斗中听到行动号召时的感受。哈克夫人是我们一行人中唯一没有表现出任何情绪的迹象。毕竟，她不这样做并不奇怪，因为我们特别小心，不让她知道这件事，当我们在她面前时，我们都尽量不表现出任何兴奋。我确信，在过去，无论我们如何试图隐瞒，她都会注意到。但就是这样，这三个星期以来，她发生了很大的变化。她越来越昏昏欲睡，尽管她看起来很强壮，身体状况良好，并且正在恢复一些肤色，但范海辛和我并不满意。我们经常谈论她。然而，我们还没有向其他人说过一句话。如果可怜的哈克知道我们对这个问题有任何怀疑，他的心一定会崩溃，当然他的神经也会崩溃。他告诉我，范海辛在她处于催眠状态时非常仔细地检查了她的牙齿，因为他说只要牙齿不开始变尖，就不会有她发生变化的危险。如果这种变化真的到来，就必须采取措施！我们都知道这些步骤必须是什么，尽管我们没有向对方提及我们的想法。我们谁都不应该回避这项任务，尽管考虑起来很可怕。 “安乐死”是一个非常好的、令人安慰的词！我很感激发明它的人。

It is only about 24 hours’ sail from the Dardanelles to here, at the rate the Czarina Catherine has come from London. She should therefore arrive some time in the morning, but as she cannot possibly get in before noon, we are all about to retire early. We shall get up at one o’clock, so as to be ready.
按照沙皇凯瑟琳号从伦敦来的速度，从达达尼尔海峡到这里只需大约24小时的航程。因此，她应该在早上某个时间到达，但由于她不可能在中午之前到达，所以我们都准备提前退休。我们将在一点钟起床，以便做好准备。

25 October, Noon.—No news yet of the ship’s arrival. Mrs. Harker’s hypnotic report this morning was the same as usual, so it is possible that we may get news at any moment. We men are all in a fever of excitement, except Harker, who is calm. His hands are cold as ice, and an hour ago I found him whetting the edge of the great Ghoorka knife which he now always carries with him. It will be a bad lookout for the Count if the edge of that ‘Kukri’ ever touches his throat, driven by that stern, ice-cold hand!
10 月 25 日中午——还没有船抵达的消息。哈克夫人今天早上的催眠报告和平常一样，所以我们随时都有可能得到消息。我们男人都兴奋不已，除了哈克，他很平静。他的手冰冷如冰，一小时前我发现他正在磨那把古尔卡大刀的刀刃，这把刀现在他总是随身携带。如果那把“Kukri”的边缘被那只严厉、冰冷的手所驱动，触及他的喉咙，那对伯爵来说将是一个糟糕的监视！

Van Helsing and I were a little alarmed about Mrs. Harker today. About noon she got into a sort of lethargy which we did not like. Although we kept silence to the others, we were neither of us happy about it. She had been restless all the morning, so that we were at first glad to know that she was sleeping. When, however, her husband mentioned casually that she was sleeping so soundly that he could not wake her, we went to her room to see for ourselves. She was breathing naturally and looked so well and peaceful that we agreed that the sleep was better for her than anything else. Poor girl, she has so much to forget that it is no wonder that sleep, if it brings oblivion to her, does her good.
范海辛和我今天对哈克夫人感到有点担心。中午时分，她变得昏昏欲睡，这是我们不喜欢的。尽管我们对其他人保持沉默，但我们都对此感到不高兴。她整个早上都焦躁不安，所以我们一开始很高兴知道她正在睡觉。然而，当她的丈夫漫不经心地提到她睡得很熟，他无法叫醒她时，我们就到她的房间去看看。她呼吸自然，看起来很健康、很平静，我们一致认为睡眠对她来说比其他任何事情都好。可怜的女孩，她有太多东西要忘记，难怪睡眠如果能让她忘记一切，对她有好处。

Later.—Our opinion was justified, for when after a refreshing sleep of some hours she woke up, she seemed brighter and better than she had been for days. At sunset she made the usual hypnotic report. Wherever he may be in the Black Sea, the Count is hurrying to his destination. To his doom, I trust!
后来——我们的意见是有道理的，因为在几个小时的精神焕发的睡眠之后，当她醒来时，她看起来比几天前更明亮、更好。日落时分，她做了通常的催眠报告。无论在黑海的哪个地方，伯爵都在赶往目的地。我相信他的灭亡！

26 October.—Another day and no tidings of the Czarina Catherine. She ought to be here by now. That she is still journeying somewhere is apparent, for Mrs. Harker’s hypnotic report at sunrise was still the same. It is possible that the vessel may be lying by, at times, for fog. Some of the steamers which came in last evening reported patches of fog both to north and south of the port. We must continue our watching, as the ship may now be signalled any moment.
10 月 26 日——又是一天，沙皇叶卡捷琳娜没有任何消息。她现在应该已经到了。很明显，她仍在某个地方旅行，因为哈克夫人在日出时的催眠报告仍然是一样的。有时，船只可能会因起雾而停泊在附近。昨晚抵达的一些轮船报告港口北部和南部有大雾。我们必须继续观察，因为该船现在可能随时收到信号。

27 October, Noon.—Most strange. No news yet of the ship we wait for. Mrs. Harker reported last night and this morning as usual. ‘Lapping waves and rushing water,’ though she added that ‘the waves were very faint.’ The telegrams from London have been the same, ‘no further report.’ Van Helsing is terribly anxious, and told me just now that he fears the Count is escaping us.
10 月 27 日中午——最奇怪的是。我们等待的船还没有消息。哈克夫人昨晚和今天早上照常报道。 “海浪拍打，水流湍急，”不过她补充说，“海浪非常微弱。”从伦敦发来的电报也是一样，“没有进一步的报告。”范海辛非常焦虑，刚才告诉我，他担心伯爵正在逃离我们。

He added significantly, ‘I did not like that lethargy of Madam Mina’s. Souls and memories can do strange things during trance.’ I was about to ask him more, but Harker just then came in, and he held up a warning hand. We must try tonight at sunset to make her speak more fully when in her hypnotic state.
他意味深长地补充道：“我不喜欢米娜女士那种昏昏欲睡的样子。”灵魂和记忆在恍惚状态下会做出奇怪的事情。”我正想问他更多问题，但哈克正好进来，他举起了警告的手。我们必须在今晚日落时尝试让她在催眠状态下说得更充分。

28 October.—Telegram. Rufus Smith, London, to Lord Godalming, care H. B. M. Vice Consul, Varna
10 月 28 日——电报。鲁弗斯·史密斯 (Rufus Smith)，伦敦，致戈达尔明勋爵 (Lord Godalming)，关心 H. B. M. 瓦尔纳 (Varna) 副领事

‘Czarina Catherine reported entering Galatz at one o’clock today.’
“沙皇凯瑟琳报告今天一点钟进入加拉茨。”

DR. SEWARD’S DIARY
博士。苏厄德的日记

28 October.—When the telegram came announcing the arrival in Galatz I do not think it was such a shock to any of us as might have been expected. True, we did not know whence, or how, or when, the bolt would come. But I think we all expected that something strange would happen. The day of arrival at Varna made us individually satisfied that things would not be just as we had expected. We only waited to learn where the change would occur. None the less, however, it was a surprise. I suppose that nature works on such a hopeful basis that we believe against ourselves that things will be as they ought to be, not as we should know that they will be. Transcendentalism is a beacon to the angels, even if it be a will-o’-the-wisp to man. Van Helsing raised his hand over his head for a moment, as though in remonstrance with the Almighty. But he said not a word, and in a few seconds stood up with his face sternly set.
10 月 28 日——当宣布抵达加拉茨的电报传来时，我认为我们中的任何人都没有像预期的那样感到震惊。确实，我们不知道闪电会从何而来、如何或何时到来。但我想我们都预料到会发生一些奇怪的事情。抵达瓦尔纳的那天，我们每个人都感到满意，因为事情不会像我们预期的那样。我们只是等待了解变化会发生在哪里。尽管如此，这还是一个惊喜。我认为大自然是在充满希望的基础上运作的，以至于我们不自觉地相信事情会像它们应该的那样，而不是像我们应该知道的那样。超验主义是天使的灯塔，即使它对人类来说是鬼火。范海辛将手举过头顶片刻，仿佛在向全能的上帝提出抗议。但他什么也没说，几秒钟后就站了起来，表情严肃。

Lord Godalming grew very pale, and sat breathing heavily. I was myself half stunned and looked in wonder at one after another. Quincey Morris tightened his belt with that quick movement which I knew so well. In our old wandering days it meant ‘action.’ Mrs. Harker grew ghastly white, so that the scar on her forehead seemed to burn, but she folded her hands meekly and looked up in prayer. Harker smiled, actually smiled, the dark, bitter smile of one who is without hope, but at the same time his action belied his words, for his hands instinctively sought the hilt of the great Kukri knife and rested there.
戈达尔明勋爵的脸色变得非常苍白，坐在那儿喘着粗气。我自己也愣住了，惊奇地看着一个又一个。昆西·莫里斯以我非常熟悉的快速动作勒紧了腰带。在我们过去流浪的日子里，这意味着“行动”。哈克夫人的脸色变得惨白，额头上的伤疤似乎在燃烧，但她温顺地叠起双手，抬头祈祷。哈克笑了，真的笑了，那是一种绝望的阴暗、苦涩的微笑，但同时他的行动与他的话不符，因为他的双手本能地寻找那把巨大的库克里刀的刀柄并停在那里。

‘When does the next train start for Galatz?’ said Van Helsing to us generally.
“下一趟开往加拉茨的火车什么时候出发？”范海辛普遍对我们说道。

‘At 6:30 tomorrow morning!’ We all started, for the answer came from Mrs. Harker.
“明天早上 6 点 30 分！”我们都惊呆了，因为答案来自哈克夫人。

‘How on earth do you know?’ said Art.
“你到底是怎么知道的？”阿特说。

‘You forget, or perhaps you do not know, though Jonathan does and so does Dr. Van Helsing, that I am the train fiend. At home in Exeter I always used to make up the time tables, so as to be helpful to my husband. I found it so useful sometimes, that I always make a study of the time tables now. I knew that if anything were to take us to Castle Dracula we should go by Galatz, or at any rate through Bucharest, so I learned the times very carefully. Unhappily there are not many to learn, as the only train tomorrow leaves as I say.’
“你忘记了，或者也许你不知道，尽管乔纳森和范海辛博士都知道，我是火车恶魔。”在埃克塞特的家里，我总是制定时间表，以便对我丈夫有帮助。有时我发现它非常有用，所以我现在总是研究时间表。我知道如果要带我们去德古拉城堡，我们应该经过加拉茨，或者至少经过布加勒斯特，所以我非常仔细地了解时间。不幸的是，没有太多东西需要学习，因为正如我所说，明天唯一的火车开出。

‘Wonderful woman!’ murmured the Professor.
“好女人！”教授低声说道。

‘Can’t we get a special?’ asked Lord Godalming.
“我们不能买一份特别的吗？”戈达尔明勋爵问道。

Van Helsing shook his head, ‘I fear not. This land is very different from yours or mine. Even if we did have a special, it would probably not arrive as soon as our regular train. Moreover, we have something to prepare. We must think. Now let us organize. You, friend Arthur, go to the train and get the tickets and arrange that all be ready for us to go in the morning. Do you, friend Jonathan, go to the agent of the ship and get from him letters to the agent in Galatz, with authority to make a search of the ship just as it was here. Quincey Morris, you see the Vice Consul, and get his aid with his fellow in Galatz and all he can do to make our way smooth, so that no times be lost when over the Danube. John will stay with Madam Mina and me, and we shall consult. For so if time be long you may be delayed. And it will not matter when the sun set, since I am here with Madam to make report.’
范海辛摇摇头，“我不担心。”这片土地与你我的土地非常不同。即使我们确实有特价火车，它也可能不会像我们的普通火车那样很快到达。而且，我们还有一些东西要准备。我们必须思考。现在让我们组织一下。你，朋友亚瑟，去火车那里买票并安排好一切，让我们早上出发。朋友乔纳森，你能去找这艘船的代理人吗？从他那里得到写给加拉茨代理人的信，授权他们对这艘船进行搜查，就像它在这里一样。昆西·莫里斯，你去见副领事，并得到他在加拉茨的同伴的帮助，他尽一切努力让我们的道路顺利，这样在多瑙河上就不会浪费时间。约翰将留在米娜女士和我身边，我们将进行协商。因此，如果时间很长，您可能会被耽误。太阳什么时候落下并不重要，因为我是和夫人一起来报告的。”

‘And I,’ said Mrs. Harker brightly, and more like her old self than she had been for many a long day, ‘shall try to be of use in all ways, and shall think and write for you as I used to do. Something is shifting from me in some strange way, and I feel freer than I have been of late!’
“而我，”哈克夫人轻快地说，她比过去许多漫长的一天更像她以前的自己，“我将尽力在各方面为您提供帮助，并为您思考和写作，就像我以前所做的那样。有些东西正在以某种奇怪的方式从我身上发生变化，我感觉比最近更自由了！

The three younger men looked happier at the moment as they seemed to realize the significance of her words. But Van Helsing and I, turning to each other, met each a grave and troubled glance. We said nothing at the time, however.
三个年轻男子此刻神情更加高兴，似乎意识到了她这句话的意义。但范海辛和我转向对方，彼此都投来了严肃而不安的目光。不过，我们当时什么也没说。

When the three men had gone out to their tasks Van Helsing asked Mrs. Harker to look up the copy of the diaries and find him the part of Harker’s journal at the Castle. She went away to get it.
当这三个人出去执行任务后，范海辛让哈克夫人查阅日记副本，找到哈克在城堡里的日记的一部分。她走开去取它。

When the door was shut upon her he said to me, ‘We mean the same! Speak out!’
当门向她关上时，他对我说：‘我们的意思是一样的！讲出！'

‘Here is some change. It is a hope that makes me sick, for it may deceive us.’
‘这里有一些零钱。这种希望让我感到恶心，因为它可能会欺骗我们。

‘Quite so. Do you know why I asked her to get the manuscript?’
'这么。你知道我为什么要她拿手稿吗？

‘No!’ said I, ‘unless it was to get an opportunity of seeing me alone.’
“不！”我说，“除非有机会单独见到我。”

‘You are in part right, friend John, but only in part. I want to tell you something. And oh, my friend, I am taking a great, a terrible, risk. But I believe it is right. In the moment when Madam Mina said those words that arrest both our understanding, an inspiration came to me. In the trance of three days ago the Count sent her his spirit to read her mind. Or more like he took her to see him in his earth box in the ship with water rushing, just as it go free at rise and set of sun. He learn then that we are here, for she have more to tell in her open life with eyes to see ears to hear than he, shut as he is, in his coffin box. Now he make his most effort to escape us. At present he want her not.
“约翰朋友，你说对了一部分，但只是部分正确。我想告诉你一件事。哦，我的朋友，我正在冒一个巨大的、可怕的风险。但我相信这是对的。当米娜女士说出那些让我们双方都无法理解的话时，我得到了灵感。三天前的恍惚中，伯爵派出自己的灵魂来读取她的心思。或者更像是他带她去见他在船上的土箱里，水流汹涌，就像太阳升起和落下时水流自由一样。然后他就知道我们在这里，因为她在开放的生活中，用眼睛去看，用耳朵去听，比他封闭在棺材里有更多的事情要讲。现在他竭尽全力想要逃离我们。目前他不需要她。

‘He is sure with his so great knowledge that she will come at his call. But he cut her off, take her, as he can do, out of his own power, that so she come not to him. Ah! There I have hope that our man brains that have been of man so long and that have not lost the grace of God, will come higher than his child-brain that lie in his tomb for centuries, that grow not yet to our stature, and that do only work selfish and therefore small. Here comes Madam Mina. Not a word to her of her trance! She knows it not, and it would overwhelm her and make despair just when we want all her hope, all her courage, when most we want all her great brain which is trained like man’s brain, but is of sweet woman and have a special power which the Count give her, and which he may not take away altogether, though he think not so. Hush! Let me speak, and you shall learn. Oh, John, my friend, we are in awful straits. I fear, as I never feared before. We can only trust the good God. Silence! Here she comes!’
“凭借他渊博的知识，他确信她会听从他的召唤。”但他切断了她的联系，尽他所能，用自己的力量带走她，这样她就不会来找他了。啊!在那里，我希望我们人类的大脑，长期以来一直属于人类，并且没有失去上帝的恩典，将比埋藏在坟墓里几个世纪的孩子的大脑更高，孩子的大脑还没有长到我们的身材，并且这样做只会自私，因此很小。米娜女士来了。没有对她说一句话关于她的恍惚！她不知道，当我们想要她所有的希望，她所有的勇气，当我们最想要她所有的伟大大脑时，这会让她不知所措，让她感到绝望，她的大脑像男人的大脑一样训练，但属于可爱的女人，拥有特殊的力量伯爵给了她，但他不能完全拿走，尽管他不这么认为。嘘！让我讲一下，你就会学到。哦，约翰，我的朋友，我们陷入了可怕的困境。我害怕，因为我以前从未害怕过。我们只能相信良善的上帝。安静！她来了！'

I thought that the Professor was going to break down and have hysterics, just as he had when Lucy died, but with a great effort he controlled himself and was at perfect nervous poise when Mrs. Harker tripped into the room, bright and happy looking and, in the doing of work, seemingly forgetful of her misery. As she came in, she handed a number of sheets of typewriting to Van Helsing. He looked over them gravely, his face brightening up as he read.
我以为教授会崩溃并歇斯底里，就像露西死时一样，但他努力控制住了自己，当哈克夫人绊倒在房间里时，他看起来很高兴，很高兴，并处于完美的紧张状态。 ，在做工作的时候，似乎忘记了自己的苦难。当她进来时，她递给范海辛几张打字稿。他严肃地看着它们，读着读着，他的脸变得明亮起来。

Then holding the pages between his finger and thumb he said, ‘Friend John, to you with so much experience already, and you too, dear Madam Mina, that are young, here is a lesson. Do not fear ever to think. A half thought has been buzzing often in my brain, but I fear to let him loose his wings. Here now, with more knowledge, I go back to where that half thought come from and I find that he be no half thought at all. That be a whole thought, though so young that he is not yet strong to use his little wings. Nay, like the ‘Ugly Duck’ of my friend Hans Andersen, he be no duck thought at all, but a big swan thought that sail nobly on big wings, when the time come for him to try them. See I read here what Jonathan have written.
然后他用手指和拇指夹住书页说：“朋友约翰，对于已经有这么多经验的你，还有你，亲爱的米娜女士，都很年轻，这是一个教训。”不要害怕思考。半个念头时常在我脑中嗡嗡作响，但我又不敢让他失去翅膀。现在，有了更多的知识，我回到了那个一半的想法来自哪里，我发现他根本就没有一半的想法。这是一个完整的想法，尽管他还太年轻，还没有能力使用他的小翅膀。不，就像我朋友汉斯·安徒生的“丑鸭子”一样，他根本不是鸭子的想法，而是一只大天鹅的想法，当他尝试的时候，它会在大翅膀上高贵地航行。我在这里读到了乔纳森所写的内容。

‘That other of his race who, in a later age, again and again, brought his forces over The Great River into Turkey Land, who when he was beaten back, came again, and again, and again, though he had to come alone from the bloody field where his troops were being slaughtered, since he knew that he alone could ultimately triumph.
“他的另一个种族，在后来的时代，一次又一次地带领他的军队越过大河进入土耳其土地，当他被击退时，他一次又一次地回来，尽管他不得不独自前来从他的部队被屠杀的血腥战场上走出来，因为他知道只有他自己才能最终取得胜利。

‘What does this tell us? Not much? No! The Count’s child thought see nothing, therefore he speak so free. Your man thought see nothing. My man thought see nothing, till just now. No! But there comes another word from some one who speak without thought because she, too, know not what it mean, what it might mean. Just as there are elements which rest, yet when in nature’s course they move on their way and they touch, the pouf! And there comes a flash of light, heaven wide, that blind and kill and destroy some. But that show up all earth below for leagues and leagues. Is it not so? Well, I shall explain. To begin, have you ever study the philosophy of crime? ‘Yes’ and ‘No.’ You, John, yes, for it is a study of insanity. You, no, Madam Mina, for crime touch you not, not but once. Still, your mind works true, and argues not a particulari ad universale. There is this peculiarity in criminals. It is so constant, in all countries and at all times, that even police, who know not much from philosophy, come to know it empirically, that it is. That is to be empiric. The criminal always work at one crime, that is the true criminal who seems predestinate to crime, and who will of none other. This criminal has not full man brain. He is clever and cunning and resourceful, but he be not of man stature as to brain. He be of child brain in much. Now this criminal of ours is predestinate to crime also. He, too, have child brain, and it is of the child to do what he have done. The little bird, the little fish, the little animal learn not by principle, but empirically. And when he learn to do, then there is to him the ground to start from to do more. ‘Dos pou sto,’ said Archimedes. ‘Give me a fulcrum, and I shall move the world!’ To do once, is the fulcrum whereby child brain become man brain. And until he have the purpose to do more, he continue to do the same again every time, just as he have done before! Oh, my dear, I see that your eyes are opened, and that to you the lightning flash show all the leagues, ‘for Mrs. Harker began to clap her hands and her eyes sparkled.
‘这告诉我们什么？不多？不！伯爵的孩子以为什么也看不见，所以说话才这么随意。你的男人以为什么也看不见。我的男人直到现在还以为什么也没看到。不！但有人不假思索地说出了另一句话，因为她也不知道这意味着什么，可能意味着什么。就像有些元素是静止的一样，但当它们在自然过程中移动时，它们会接触到坐垫！天空中出现一道闪光，使一些人失明、死亡和毁灭。但这显示了下面整个地球的联盟和联盟。不是这样吗？好吧，我会解释一下。首先，您研究过犯罪哲学吗？ “是”和“否”。你，约翰，是的，因为这是对精神错乱的研究。你，不，米娜女士，犯罪行为不会触动你，一次也不会。尽管如此，你的想法还是正确的，并且不主张特殊的普遍性。犯罪分子有这种特殊性。它在所有国家和任何时候都是如此恒定，甚至连对哲学了解不多的警察也通过经验认识到它确实如此。这就是经验性的。罪犯总是致力于一种犯罪，那就是真正的罪犯，他似乎注定要犯罪，而且不会犯罪。这个罪犯没有完整的大脑。他聪明、狡猾、足智多谋，但他的头脑还不够成熟。他的童心在多。现在我们这个罪犯也注定要犯罪。他也有孩子的大脑，他所做的事情是孩子的责任。小鸟、小鱼、小动物不是根据原则学习，而是根据经验学习。当他学会做事时，他就有了开始做更多事情的基础。 “Dos pou sto，”阿基米德说。 ‘给我一个支点，我就能撬动世界！’一次做，是童脑变成男人脑的支点。直到他有了做更多事情的目的，他每次都会继续做同样的事情，就像他以前做过的那样！哦，亲爱的，我看到你的眼睛睁开了，闪电向你展示了所有的联盟，“因为哈克夫人开始拍手，她的眼睛闪闪发光。”

He went on, ‘Now you shall speak. Tell us two dry men of science what you see with those so bright eyes.’ He took her hand and held it whilst he spoke. His finger and thumb closed on her pulse, as I thought instinctively and unconsciously, as she spoke.
他接着说：‘现在你说话了。告诉我们两个干巴巴的科学家，你们用那双明亮的眼睛看到了什么。”他一边说话，一边握着她的手。当她说话时，我本能地、无意识地想到，他的手指和拇指紧贴着她的脉搏。

‘The Count is a criminal and of criminal type. Nordau and Lombroso would so classify him, and qua criminal he is of an imperfectly formed mind. Thus, in a difficulty he has to seek resource in habit. His past is a clue, and the one page of it that we know, and that from his own lips, tells that once before, when in what Mr. Morris would call a ‘tight place,’ he went back to his own country from the land he had tried to invade, and thence, without losing purpose, prepared himself for a new effort. He came again better equipped for his work, and won. So he came to London to invade a new land. He was beaten, and when all hope of success was lost, and his existence in danger, he fled back over the sea to his home. Just as formerly he had fled back over the Danube from Turkey Land.’
“伯爵是一个罪犯，而且是犯罪类型的罪犯。诺道和隆勃罗梭会这样对他进行分类，作为罪犯，他的心智不健全。因此，遇到困难时，他必须习惯性地寻求资源。他的过去是一条线索，我们所知道的那一页，是出自他自己的口，讲述了以前有一次，在莫里斯先生所说的“紧张的地方”，他从他曾试图入侵这片土地，因此，他没有失去目标，为新的努力做好了准备。他再次为自己的工作做好了更好的准备，并赢得了胜利。于是他来到了伦敦，想要侵略一片新的土地。他被打败了，当所有成功的希望都破灭了，他的生命也处于危险之中时，他漂洋过海逃回了家乡。就像以前一样，他从土耳其土地越过多瑙河逃了回来。

‘Good, good! Oh, you so clever lady!’ said Van Helsing, enthusiastically, as he stooped and kissed her hand. A moment later he said to me, as calmly as though we had been having a sick room consultation, ‘Seventy-two only, and in all this excitement. I have hope.’
'好好！哦，你真是聪明的女士！”范海辛弯下腰亲吻她的手，热情地说。过了一会儿，他平静地对我说：“才七十二岁，而且还很兴奋。”我有希望。'

Turning to her again, he said with keen expectation, ‘But go on. Go on! There is more to tell if you will. Be not afraid. John and I know. I do in any case, and shall tell you if you are right. Speak, without fear!’
他再次转向她，带着热切的期待说道：“但是继续吧。”继续！如果你愿意的话，还有更多的事情要说。不要害怕。约翰和我知道。无论如何，我会告诉你，如果你是对的，我会告诉你。说吧，无所畏惧！”

‘I will try to. But you will forgive me if I seem too egotistical.’
'我会试着去。但如果我看起来太自私了，你会原谅我的。”

‘Nay! Fear not, you must be egotist, for it is of you that we think.’
‘不！别害怕，你一定是个自我主义者，因为我们认为的是你。”

‘Then, as he is criminal he is selfish. And as his intellect is small and his action is based on selfishness, he confines himself to one purpose. That purpose is remorseless. As he fled back over the Danube, leaving his forces to be cut to pieces, so now he is intent on being safe, careless of all. So his own selfishness frees my soul somewhat from the terrible power which he acquired over me on that dreadful night. I felt it! Oh, I felt it! Thank God, for His great mercy! My soul is freer than it has been since that awful hour. And all that haunts me is a fear lest in some trance or dream he may have used my knowledge for his ends.’
‘那么，既然他是罪犯，他就是自私的。由于他的智力很小，而且他的行为是基于自私，所以他把自己限制在一个目标上。这个目的是无情的。由于他越过多瑙河逃回，让他的军队被分割成碎片，所以现在他一心只想安全，不顾一切。因此，他的自私使我的灵魂在某种程度上摆脱了他在那个可怕的夜晚所获得的可怕力量。我感觉到了！哦，我感觉到了！感谢神，神的大怜悯！我的灵魂比那可怕的时刻以来更加自由。困扰我的只是一种恐惧，生怕在某种恍惚或梦中他可能利用我的知识达到他的目的。

The Professor stood up, ‘He has so used your mind, and by it he has left us here in Varna, whilst the ship that carried him rushed through enveloping fog up to Galatz, where, doubtless, he had made preparation for escaping from us. But his child mind only saw so far. And it may be that as ever is in God’s Providence, the very thing that the evil doer most reckoned on for his selfish good, turns out to be his chiefest harm. The hunter is taken in his own snare, as the great Psalmist says. For now that he think he is free from every trace of us all, and that he has escaped us with so many hours to him, then his selfish child brain will whisper him to sleep. He think, too, that as he cut himself off from knowing your mind, there can be no knowledge of him to you. There is where he fail! That terrible baptism of blood which he give you makes you free to go to him in spirit, as you have as yet done in your times of freedom, when the sun rise and set. At such times you go by my volition and not by his. And this power to good of you and others, you have won from your suffering at his hands. This is now all more precious that he know it not, and to guard himself have even cut himself off from his knowledge of our where. We, however, are not selfish, and we believe that God is with us through all this blackness, and these many dark hours. We shall follow him, and we shall not flinch. Even if we peril ourselves that we become like him. Friend John, this has been a great hour, and it have done much to advance us on our way. You must be scribe and write him all down, so that when the others return from their work you can give it to them, then they shall know as we do.’
教授站了起来，“他如此运用了你的思想，因此他把我们留在了瓦尔纳，而载着他的船则冲过浓雾驶向加拉茨，毫无疑问，他在那里为逃离我们做好了准备。” 。但他幼稚的头脑只看到了到目前为止。或许，正如上帝的旨意一样，作恶者最看重的自私利益，最终却成了他最大的伤害。正如伟大的诗篇作者所说，猎人被自己的网罗缠住了。既然他认为自己已经摆脱了我们所有人的踪迹，而且他已经逃离了我们这么多时间，那么他自私的孩子大脑就会低声哄他入睡。他还认为，当他切断了自己对你思想的了解时，你就不可能了解他。这就是他失败的地方！他给你的可怕的血的洗礼使你在精神上自由地走向他，就像你在自由时期，当太阳升起和落下时所做的那样。在这种时候，你是按照我的意愿行事，而不是按照他的意愿行事。这种对你和他人有益的力量，是你从他手中的痛苦中赢得的。现在，他不知道这一点就显得更加珍贵了，为了保护自己，他甚至切断了自己对我们所在位置的了解。然而，我们并不自私，我们相信上帝与我们同在，度过这一切黑暗和许多黑暗时刻。我们将追随他，我们不会退缩。即使我们冒着危险，也要变得像他一样。约翰朋友，这是一个伟大的时刻，它对我们前进的道路起到了很大的推动作用。你必须成为抄写员，把他全部写下来，这样当其他人工作回来时，你就可以把它交给他们，然后他们就会像我们一样知道。

And so I have written it whilst we wait their return, and Mrs. Harker has written with the typewriter all since she brought the MS to us.
所以我在等待他们回来的时候写了它，自从哈克夫人把 MS 带给我们以来，她一直用打字机写下来。

Chapter 26
第26章

DR. SEWARD’S DIARY
博士。苏厄德的日记

29 October.—This is written in the train from Varna to Galatz. Last night we all assembled a little before the time of sunset. Each of us had done his work as well as he could, so far as thought, and endeavour, and opportunity go, we are prepared for the whole of our journey, and for our work when we get to Galatz. When the usual time came round Mrs. Harker prepared herself for her hypnotic effort, and after a longer and more serious effort on the part of Van Helsing than has been usually necessary, she sank into the trance. Usually she speaks on a hint, but this time the Professor had to ask her questions, and to ask them pretty resolutely, before we could learn anything. At last her answer came.
10 月 29 日——这是在从瓦尔纳到加拉茨的火车上写的。昨晚，我们在日落之前聚集在一起。我们每个人都尽其所能地完成了自己的工作，就思想、努力和机会而言，我们已经为整个旅程以及到达加拉茨后的工作做好了准备。当通常的时间到来时，哈克夫人为她的催眠努力做好了准备，在范海辛方面比通常需要的时间更长、更认真的努力之后，她陷入了恍惚状态。通常她说话都会有暗示，但这一次教授必须问她问题，而且要非常坚决地问，然后我们才能学到任何东西。终于，她的答案来了。

‘I can see nothing. We are still. There are no waves lapping, but only a steady swirl of water softly running against the hawser. I can hear men’s voices calling, near and far, and the roll and creak of oars in the rowlocks. A gun is fired somewhere, the echo of it seems far away. There is tramping of feet overhead, and ropes and chains are dragged along. What is this? There is a gleam of light. I can feel the air blowing upon me.’
‘我什么也看不见。我们仍是。没有海浪拍打，只有稳定的水流轻轻地拍打着缆索。我能听到人们的呼唤声，无论远近，还是桨在桨架上的滚动声和吱吱声。某处响起枪声，回声似乎很远。头顶上传来脚步声，绳子和铁链被拖着走。这是什么？有一丝光芒。我能感觉到空气吹在我身上。

Here she stopped. She had risen, as if impulsively, from where she lay on the sofa, and raised both her hands, palms upwards, as if lifting a weight. Van Helsing and I looked at each other with understanding. Quincey raised his eyebrows slightly and looked at her intently, whilst Harker’s hand instinctively closed round the hilt of his Kukri. There was a long pause. We all knew that the time when she could speak was passing, but we felt that it was useless to say anything.
说到这里，她停了下来。她仿佛一时冲动，从沙发上站了起来，举起双手，掌心向上，仿佛举起了重物。范海辛和我互相看着对方，表示理解。昆西微微扬起眉毛，专注地看着她，而哈克的手本能地握住了他的弯刀刀柄。出现了长时间的停顿。我们都知道她能说话的时候已经过去了，但又觉得说什么也没有用。

Suddenly she sat up, and as she opened her eyes said sweetly, ‘Would none of you like a cup of tea? You must all be so tired!’
突然她坐了起来，睁开眼睛甜甜地说：“你们不想喝杯茶吗？”你们一定很累了！

We could only make her happy, and so acqueisced. She bustled off to get tea. When she had gone Van Helsing said, ‘You see, my friends. He is close to land. He has left his earth chest. But he has yet to get on shore. In the night he may lie hidden somewhere, but if he be not carried on shore, or if the ship do not touch it, he cannot achieve the land. In such case he can, if it be in the night, change his form and jump or fly on shore, then, unless he be carried he cannot escape. And if he be carried, then the customs men may discover what the box contain. Thus, in fine, if he escape not on shore tonight, or before dawn, there will be the whole day lost to him. We may then arrive in time. For if he escape not at night we shall come on him in daytime, boxed up and at our mercy. For he dare not be his true self, awake and visible, lest he be discovered.’
我们只能让她高兴，也就默许了。她匆忙去买茶了。当她走后，范海辛说道：“你们瞧，我的朋友们。”他离陆地很近。他已经离开了他的地球箱子。但他还没有上岸。在夜间，他可能隐藏在某个地方，但如果不把他带到岸上，或者如果船不接触它，他就无法到达陆地。这样的话，如果是在夜间，他可以改变形态，跳跃或飞上岸，那么，除非有人抱着他，否则他无法逃脱。如果他被带走，那么海关人员可能会发现盒子里装的是什么。因此，总而言之，如果他今晚或黎明之前没有逃上岸，他就会失去一整天的时间。然后我们可能会准时到达。因为如果他晚上不逃走，我们就会在白天袭击他，把他关起来，任由我们摆布。因为他不敢做真实的自己，清醒的、可见的，以免被发现。”

There was no more to be said, so we waited in patience until the dawn, at which time we might learn more from Mrs. Harker.
没什么可说的了，我们就耐心地等待着天亮，到时候我们也许可以从哈克夫人那里了解到更多的情况。

Early this morning we listened, with breathless anxiety, for her response in her trance. The hypnotic stage was even longer in coming than before, and when it came the time remaining until full sunrise was so short that we began to despair. Van Helsing seemed to throw his whole soul into the effort. At last, in obedience to his will she made reply.
今天一大早，我们带着喘不过气来的焦虑，听着她在恍惚状态下的反应。催眠阶段到来的时间比之前还要长，而当催眠阶段到来时，距日出的时间已经如此之短，我们开始绝望了。范海辛似乎全身心投入到了这项努力中。最后，她遵从了他的意愿，做出了答复。

‘All is dark. I hear lapping water, level with me, and some creaking as of wood on wood.’ She paused, and the red sun shot up. We must wait till tonight.
‘一切都是黑暗的。我听到水流的拍击声，与我齐平，还有一些木头碰木头的嘎吱声。”她停了下来，红色的太阳升起。我们必须等到今晚。

And so it is that we are travelling towards Galatz in an agony of expectation. We are due to arrive between two and three in the morning. But already, at Bucharest, we are three hours late, so we cannot possibly get in till well after sunup. Thus we shall have two more hypnotic messages from Mrs. Harker! Either or both may possibly throw more light on what is happening.
就这样，我们带着痛苦的期待踏上了前往加拉茨的旅程。我们预计在凌晨两点到三点之间到达。但到了布加勒斯特，我们已经晚了三个小时，所以我们不可能在日出之后才能到达。这样我们就会收到哈克夫人发来的另外两条催眠信息！其中一个或两者都可能让人们更清楚地了解正在发生的事情。

Later.—Sunset has come and gone. Fortunately it came at a time when there was no distraction. For had it occurred whilst we were at a station, we might not have secured the necessary calm and isolation. Mrs. Harker yielded to the hypnotic influence even less readily than this morning. I am in fear that her power of reading the Count’s sensations may die away, just when we want it most. It seems to me that her imagination is beginning to work. Whilst she has been in the trance hitherto she has confined herself to the simplest of facts. If this goes on it may ultimately mislead us. If I thought that the Count’s power over her would die away equally with her power of knowledge it would be a happy thought. But I am afraid that it may not be so.
后来——日落来了又走了。幸运的是，它来得正是时候，没有分心。因为如果这件事发生在我们在车站的时候，我们可能无法获得必要的平静和隔离。哈克夫人比今天早上更不容易屈服于催眠的影响。我担心她解读伯爵感受的能力可能会在我们最需要的时候消失。在我看来，她的想象力开始发挥作用了。迄今为止，虽然她一直处于恍惚状态，但她只讲述最简单的事实。如果这种情况继续下去，最终可能会误导我们。如果我认为伯爵对她的影响力会随着她知识的力量而消失，那将是一个令人高兴的想法。但恐怕事实并非如此。

When she did speak, her words were enigmatical, ‘Something is going out. I can feel it pass me like a cold wind. I can hear, far off, confused sounds, as of men talking in strange tongues, fierce falling water, and the howling of wolves.’ She stopped and a shudder ran through her, increasing in intensity for a few seconds, till at the end, she shook as though in a palsy. She said no more, even in answer to the Professor’s imperative questioning. When she woke from the trance, she was cold, and exhausted, and languid, but her mind was all alert. She could not remember anything, but asked what she had said. When she was told, she pondered over it deeply for a long time and in silence.
当她开口说话时，她的话语充满了神秘感：“有什么东西要出去了。”我能感觉到它像一阵冷风一样从我身边吹过。我能听到远处传来混乱的声音，比如男人用奇怪的语言说话、猛烈的流水声和狼的嚎叫声。”她停了下来，一阵颤抖传遍全身，在几秒钟内强度不断增强，直到最后，她像瘫痪一样颤抖着。她没有再说什么，即使是在回答教授迫切的询问时也是如此。当她从恍惚中醒来时，她浑身冰冷、疲惫不堪、无精打采，但她的神志却很清醒。她什么都不记得了，但还是问她说了什么。得知此事后，她默默地沉思了很久。

30 October, 7 A.M.—We are near Galatz now, and I may not have time to write later. Sunrise this morning was anxiously looked for by us all. Knowing of the increasing difficulty of procuring the hypnotic trance, Van Helsing began his passes earlier than usual. They produced no effect, however, until the regular time, when she yielded with a still greater difficulty, only a minute before the sun rose. The Professor lost no time in his questioning.
10 月 30 日早上 7 点——我们现在已经接近加拉茨了，我稍后可能没有时间写信。今天早上的日出是我们大家焦急地寻找的。范海辛知道获得催眠状态的难度越来越大，因此比平常更早地开始了催眠。然而，它们没有产生任何效果，直到常规时间，她在太阳升起前一分钟以更大的困难屈服了。教授不失时机地提问。

Her answer came with equal quickness, ‘All is dark. I hear water swirling by, level with my ears, and the creaking of wood on wood. Cattle low far off. There is another sound, a queer one like …’ She stopped and grew white, and whiter still.
她的回答同样迅速：“一切都是黑暗的。”我听到水流在我耳边打旋，以及木头与木头之间的嘎吱声。牛低低远。还有另一种声音，一种奇怪的声音，就像……’她停了下来，脸色变得苍白，而且更白了。

‘Go on, go on! Speak, I command you!’ said Van Helsing in an agonized voice. At the same time there was despair in his eyes, for the risen sun was reddening even Mrs. Harker’s pale face. She opened her eyes, and we all started as she said, sweetly and seemingly with the utmost unconcern.
‘继续，继续！说吧，我命令你！”范海辛痛苦地说。与此同时，他的眼中充满了绝望，因为冉冉升起的太阳连哈克夫人苍白的脸都染红了。她睁开了眼睛，我们都像她说的那样吃了一惊，语气甜蜜，似乎毫不在意。

‘Oh, Professor, why ask me to do what you know I can’t? I don’t remember anything.’ Then, seeing the look of amazement on our faces, she said, turning from one to the other with a troubled look, ‘What have I said? What have I done? I know nothing, only that I was lying here, half asleep, and heard you say ‘go on! speak, I command you!’ It seemed so funny to hear you order me about, as if I were a bad child!’
“噢，教授，为什么要我做你明知我做不到的事呢？”我什么都不记得了。”然后，看到我们脸上惊讶的表情，她一脸困惑地从一个转到另一个，说道：“我说了什么？我做了什么？我什么都不知道，只知道我躺在这里，半睡半醒，听到你说‘继续！说话，我命令你！’听你命令我真是太有趣了，好像我是个坏孩子一样！’

‘Oh, Madam Mina,’ he said, sadly, ‘it is proof, if proof be needed, of how I love and honour you, when a word for your good, spoken more earnest than ever, can seem so strange because it is to order her whom I am proud to obey!’
“哦，米娜女士，”他悲伤地说，“如果需要证明的话，这就是我如何爱你、尊敬你的证明，当一句为你好说的、比以往任何时候都更加真诚的话语，可能会显得如此奇怪，因为它是命令我自豪地服从的她！

The whistles are sounding. We are nearing Galatz. We are on fire with anxiety and eagerness.
口哨声响起。我们正在接近加拉茨。我们充满焦虑和渴望。

MINA HARKER’S JOURNAL
米娜·哈克的日记

30 October.—Mr. Morris took me to the hotel where our rooms had been ordered by telegraph, he being the one who could best be spared, since he does not speak any foreign language. The forces were distributed much as they had been at Varna, except that Lord Godalming went to the Vice Consul, as his rank might serve as an immediate guarantee of some sort to the official, we being in extreme hurry. Jonathan and the two doctors went to the shipping agent to learn particulars of the arrival of the Czarina Catherine.
10 月 30 日——先生。莫里斯带我去了酒店，我们的房间是通过电报预订的，他是最能幸免的人，因为他不会说任何外语。部队的分布与瓦尔纳时的情况大致相同，只是戈达尔明勋爵去了副领事那里，因为他的军衔可能对官员有某种直接的保证，而我们实在是太匆忙了。乔纳森和两位医生前往船务代理处了解沙皇凯瑟琳号抵达的详细情况。

Later.—Lord Godalming has returned. The Consul is away, and the Vice Consul sick. So the routine work has been attended to by a clerk. He was very obliging, and offered to do anything in his power.
后来——戈达尔明勋爵回来了。领事不在，副领事生病了。所以日常工作都是由文员负责的。他非常乐于助人，愿意做他力所能及的任何事情。

JONATHAN HARKER’S JOURNAL
乔纳森·哈克的日记

30 October.—At nine o’clock Dr. Van Helsing, Dr. Seward, and I called on Messrs. Mackenzie & Steinkoff, the agents of the London firm of Hapgood. They had received a wire from London, in answer to Lord Godalming’s telegraphed request, asking them to show us any civility in their power. They were more than kind and courteous, and took us at once on board the Czarina Catherine, which lay at anchor out in the river harbor. There we saw the Captain, Donelson by name, who told us of his voyage. He said that in all his life he had never had so favourable a run.
10 月 30 日——九点钟，范海辛博士、苏厄德博士和我拜访了哈普古德伦敦公司的代理人麦肯齐和斯坦科夫先生。他们收到了一封来自伦敦的电报，回应戈达尔明勋爵的电报请求，要求他们在权力范围内向我们展示礼貌。他们非常友善和礼貌，立即带我们上了停泊在河港的沙皇凯瑟琳号。在那里我们见到了船长，名叫多纳尔森，他向我们讲述了他的航行。他说，他一生中从未有过如此有利的跑步经历。

‘Man!’ he said, ‘but it made us afeard, for we expect it that we should have to pay for it wi’ some rare piece o’ ill luck, so as to keep up the average. It’s no canny to run frae London to the Black Sea wi’ a wind ahint ye, as though the Deil himself were blawin’ on yer sail for his ain purpose. An’ a’ the time we could no speer a thing. Gin we were nigh a ship, or a port, or a headland, a fog fell on us and travelled wi’ us, till when after it had lifted and we looked out, the deil a thing could we see. We ran by Gibraltar wi’ oot bein’ able to signal. An’ til we came to the Dardanelles and had to wait to get our permit to pass, we never were within hail o’ aught. At first I inclined to slack off sail and beat about till the fog was lifted. But whiles, I thocht that if the Deil was minded to get us into the Black Sea quick, he was like to do it whether we would or no. If we had a quick voyage it would be no to our miscredit wi’the owners, or no hurt to our traffic, an’ the Old Mon who had served his ain purpose wad be decently grateful to us for no hinderin’ him.’
“伙计！”他说，“但这让我们感到害怕，因为我们预计我们必须为此付出一些罕见的不幸，才能保持平均水平。顺着风从伦敦跑到黑海可不是什么精明的事，就好像魔鬼本人为了他的目的而在你的帆上吹着风一样。一次我们什么也说不出来。当我们靠近一艘船，或者一个港口，或者一个岬角时，一场雾落在我们身上，并与我们同行，直到雾气消散后，我们向外望去，我们才能看到一个可怕的东西。我们跑过直布罗陀，却无法发出信号。直到我们到达达达尼尔海峡并不得不等待获得通行许可之前，我们从未陷入冰雹之中。起初，我想放松帆，继续航行，直到雾散去。但有时，我认为如果魔鬼有意让我们快速进入黑海，无论我们愿意与否，他都会这样做。如果我们的航行速度很快，那么我们对船东的失信就不会受到影响，或者对我们的交通也不会造成伤害，而达到了他的目的的老蒙也会非常感激我们没有妨碍他。

This mixture of simplicity and cunning, of superstition and commercial reasoning, aroused Van Helsing, who said, ‘Mine friend, that Devil is more clever than he is thought by some, and he know when he meet his match!’
这种简单与狡猾、迷信与商业推理的混合体激起了范海辛的兴趣，他说：“我的朋友，那个魔鬼比某些人想象的更聪明，他知道什么时候会遇到对手！”

The skipper was not displeased with the compliment, and went on, ‘When we got past the Bosphorus the men began to grumble. Some o’ them, the Roumanians, came and asked me to heave overboard a big box which had been put on board by a queer lookin’ old man just before we had started frae London. I had seen them speer at the fellow, and put out their twa fingers when they saw him, to guard them against the evil eye. Man! but the supersteetion of foreigners is pairfectly rideeculous! I sent them aboot their business pretty quick, but as just after a fog closed in on us I felt a wee bit as they did anent something, though I wouldn’t say it was again the big box. Well, on we went, and as the fog didn’t let up for five days I joost let the wind carry us, for if the Deil wanted to get somewheres, well, he would fetch it up a’reet. An’ if he didn’t, well, we’d keep a sharp lookout anyhow. Sure eneuch, we had a fair way and deep water all the time. And two days ago, when the mornin’ sun came through the fog, we found ourselves just in the river opposite Galatz. The Roumanians were wild, and wanted me right or wrong to take out the box and fling it in the river. I had to argy wi’ them aboot it wi’ a handspike. An’ when the last o’ them rose off the deck wi’ his head in his hand, I had convinced them that, evil eye or no evil eye, the property and the trust of my owners were better in my hands than in the river Danube. They had, mind ye, taken the box on the deck ready to fling in, and as it was marked Galatz via Varna, I thocht I’d let it lie till we discharged in the port an’ get rid o’t althegither. We didn’t do much clearin’ that day, an’ had to remain the nicht at anchor. But in the mornin’, braw an’ airly, an hour before sunup, a man came aboard wi’ an order, written to him from England, to receive a box marked for one Count Dracula. Sure eneuch the matter was one ready to his hand. He had his papers a’ reet, an’ glad I was to be rid o’ the dam’ thing, for I was beginnin’ masel’ to feel uneasy at it. If the Deil did have any luggage aboord the ship, I’m thinkin’ it was nane ither than that same!’
船长对这种恭维并没有感到不满，并继续说道：“当我们过了博斯普鲁斯海峡时，人们开始抱怨。其中一些罗马尼亚人过来要求我把一个大箱子扔到船上，这个箱子是在我们启程前往伦敦之前由一位长相古怪的老人放在船上的。我曾见过他们对这个家伙嗤之以鼻，当他们看到他时，伸出他们的两个手指，以防止他们受到邪恶的目光。男人！但外国人的超级监视真是令人难以置信！我很快就让他们开始了他们的工作，但就在大雾笼罩我们之后，我感觉到他们做了什么，尽管我不会说这又是一个大盒子。好吧，我们继续前行，由于雾已经五天没有消散，我就让风带着我们，因为如果魔鬼想要到达某个地方，那么，他会立刻把它带上来。如果他不这样做，那么我们无论如何都会保持警惕。当然，我们一直有一条公平的道路和深水。两天前，当清晨的阳光穿过雾气时，我们发现自己就在加拉茨对面的河里。罗马尼亚人很狂野，想要我把盒子拿出来扔进河里，无论对错。我不得不用推杆引导他们启动它。当他们最后一个手捧着头从甲板上站起来时，我让他们相信，无论有没有邪恶之眼，财产和我主人的信任在我手中比在河里更好多瑙河。请注意，他们已经把甲板上的箱子拿走了，准备扔进去，因为它被标记为经瓦尔纳的加拉茨，我想我会让它躺着，直到我们在港口卸货，然后再把它扔掉。那天我们没有做太多清理工作，必须保持抛锚状态。 但在早上，日出前一小时，一名男子带着英国写给他的命令登上了船，要求接收一个标有德古拉伯爵的盒子。当然，这件事已经摆在他的面前了。他重新整理了文件，很高兴我能摆脱那该死的东西，因为我开始对此感到不安。如果戴尔号船上确实有行李，我想那也没什么了不起！’

‘What was the name of the man who took it?’ asked Dr. Van Helsing with restrained eagerness.
“拿走它的人叫什么名字？”范海辛医生克制着急切地问道。

‘I’ll be tellin’ ye quick!’ he answered, and stepping down to his cabin, produced a receipt signed ‘Immanuel Hildesheim.’ Burgen-strasse 16 was the address. We found out that this was all the Captain knew, so with thanks we came away.
“我会尽快告诉你们！”他回答道，然后走下自己的小屋，拿出一张签有“伊曼纽尔·希尔德斯海姆”的收据。地址是布尔根大街 16 号。我们发现船长只知道这些，于是我们带着感谢离开了。

We found Hildesheim in his office, a Hebrew of rather the Adelphi Theatre type, with a nose like a sheep, and a fez. His arguments were pointed with specie, we doing the punctuation, and with a little bargaining he told us what he knew. This turned out to be simple but important. He had received a letter from Mr. de Ville of London, telling him to receive, if possible before sunrise so as to avoid customs, a box which would arrive at Galatz in the Czarina Catherine. This he was to give in charge to a certain Petrof Skinsky, who dealt with the Slovaks who traded down the river to the port. He had been paid for his work by an English bank note, which had been duly cashed for gold at the Danube International Bank. When Skinsky had come to him, he had taken him to the ship and handed over the box, so as to save porterage. That was all he knew.
我们在希尔德斯海姆的办公室里找到了他，他是一位类似阿德尔菲剧​​院类型的希伯来人，长着羊鼻子，戴着土耳其毡帽。他的论点是尖锐的，我们做标点符号，经过一点讨价还价，他告诉我们他所知道的。事实证明这很简单但很重要。他收到了伦敦德维尔先生的一封信，告诉他如果可能的话，在日出之前收到一个盒子，以避免海关，这个盒子将在沙皇凯瑟琳号上到达加拉茨。他将这个任务交给了彼得罗夫·斯金斯基（Petrof Skinsky）负责，他负责与沿着河流到港口进行贸易的斯洛伐克人打交道。他的工作报酬是一张英国钞票，这张钞票已在多瑙河国际银行兑换成黄金。当斯金斯基来找他时，他带他上了船，并把箱子交给了他，以节省搬运费。这就是他所知道的一切。

We then sought for Skinsky, but were unable to find him. One of his neighbors, who did not seem to bear him any affection, said that he had gone away two days before, no one knew whither. This was corroborated by his landlord, who had received by messenger the key of the house together with the rent due, in English money. This had been between ten and eleven o’clock last night. We were at a standstill again.
然后我们寻找斯金斯基，但没有找到他。他的一位邻居似乎对他没什么好感，说他两天前就走了，没人知道去哪儿了。他的房东证实了这一点，他通过信使收到了房子的钥匙以及以英镑支付的租金。这是昨晚十点到十一点之间的事。我们又陷入了停滞。

Whilst we were talking one came running and breathlessly gasped out that the body of Skinsky had been found inside the wall of the churchyard of St. Peter, and that the throat had been torn open as if by some wild animal. Those we had been speaking with ran off to see the horror, the women crying out. ‘This is the work of a Slovak!’ We hurried away lest we should have been in some way drawn into the affair, and so detained.
当我们说话的时候，有人跑过来，气喘吁吁地说，斯金斯基的尸体是在圣彼得教堂墓地的墙内被发现的，喉咙被某种野兽撕开了。那些与我们交谈的人都跑去看恐怖的场面，妇女们哭喊着。 “这是一个斯洛伐克人的作品！”我们匆忙离开，以免自己以某种方式卷入这件事，从而被拘留。

As we came home we could arrive at no definite conclusion. We were all convinced that the box was on its way, by water, to somewhere, but where that might be we would have to discover. With heavy hearts we came home to the hotel to Mina.
当我们回到家时，我们无法得出明确的结论。我们都确信盒子正在通过水路前往某个地方，但我们必须找出它可能在哪里。我们怀着沉重的心情回到了米娜旅馆的家。

When we met together, the first thing was to consult as to taking Mina again into our confidence. Things are getting desperate, and it is at least a chance, though a hazardous one. As a preliminary step, I was released from my promise to her.
当我们见面时，第一件事就是商量是否要再次信任米娜。事情变得越来越绝望，这至少是一个机会，尽管是一个危险的机会。作为第一步，我不再履行对她的承诺。

MINA HARKER’S JOURNAL
米娜·哈克的日记

30 October, evening.—They were so tired and worn out and dispirited that there was nothing to be done till they had some rest, so I asked them all to lie down for half an hour whilst I should enter everything up to the moment. I feel so grateful to the man who invented the ‘Traveller’s’ typewriter, and to Mr. Morris for getting this one for me. I should have felt quite astray doing the work if I had to write with a pen …
10 月 30 日晚上。——他们太累了、疲惫不堪、意志消沉，在休息之前没有什么可做的，所以我让他们都躺下半个小时，而我则将目前的一切都记录下来。我非常感谢发明“旅行者”打字机的人，也感谢莫里斯先生为我买了这台打字机。如果我必须用笔写的话，我会觉得做这项工作很误入歧途……

It is all done. Poor dear, dear Jonathan, what he must have suffered, what he must be suffering now. He lies on the sofa hardly seeming to breathe, and his whole body appears in collapse. His brows are knit. His face is drawn with pain. Poor fellow, maybe he is thinking, and I can see his face all wrinkled up with the concentration of his thoughts. Oh! if I could only help at all. I shall do what I can.
一切都完成了。可怜的亲爱的，亲爱的乔纳森，他一定遭受过什么，他现在一定正在遭受什么。他躺在沙发上，几乎没有呼吸，整个人看起来都崩溃了。他的眉头紧锁。他的脸因痛苦而憔悴。可怜的家伙，也许他正在思考，我可以看到他的脸因为全神贯注而皱起来。哦！如果我能帮忙就好了。我会尽力而为。

I have asked Dr. Van Helsing, and he has got me all the papers that I have not yet seen. Whilst they are resting, I shall go over all carefully, and perhaps I may arrive at some conclusion. I shall try to follow the Professor’s example, and think without prejudice on the facts before me …
我问过范海辛博士，他给了我所有我还没看过的论文。趁他们休息的时候，我会仔细地看一遍，也许能得出一些结论。我将尽力以教授为榜样，不带偏见地思考眼前的事实……

I do believe that under God’s providence I have made a discovery. I shall get the maps and look over them.
我确实相信，在上帝的旨意下，我有了一个发现。我会拿到地图并仔细查看。

I am more than ever sure that I am right. My new conclusion is ready, so I shall get our party together and read it. They can judge it. It is well to be accurate, and every minute is precious.
我比以往任何时候都更加确信我是对的。我的新结论已经准备好了，所以我要召集大家一起阅读它。他们可以判断。准确就好，每一分钟都很宝贵。

MINA HARKER’S MEMORANDUM
米娜·哈克的备忘录

(ENTERED IN HER JOURNAL)
（记录在她的日记中）

Ground of inquiry.—Count Dracula’s problem is to get back to his own place.
询问的依据。——德古拉伯爵的问题是回到自己的地方。

(a) He must be brought back by some one. This is evident. For had he power to move himself as he wished he could go either as man, or wolf, or bat, or in some other way. He evidently fears discovery or interference, in the state of helplessness in which he must be, confined as he is between dawn and sunset in his wooden box.
(a) 他必须被某人带回来。这是显而易见的。因为如果他有能力按照自己的意愿移动自己，他就可以作为人、狼、蝙蝠或其他方式去。显然，他害怕被发现或受到干扰，他必须处于一种无助的状态，就像他在黎明和日落之间被限制在他的木箱里一样。

(b) How is he to be taken?—Here a process of exclusions may help us. By road, by rail, by water?
（乙）我们该如何看待他？——在这里，排除法可能对我们有帮助。公路、铁路、水路？

1. By Road.—There are endless difficulties, especially in leaving the city.
1. 公路——困难无穷，尤其是离开城市。

(x) There are people. And people are curious, and investigate. A hint, a surmise, a doubt as to what might be in the box, would destroy him.
(x) 有人。人们很好奇，并进行调查。一个暗示、一个猜测、一个对盒子里可能装着什么的怀疑，都会毁掉他。

(y) There are, or there may be, customs and octroi officers to pass.
(y) 有或可能有海关和 octroi 官员需要通过。

(z) His pursuers might follow. This is his highest fear. And in order to prevent his being betrayed he has repelled, so far as he can, even his victim, me!
(z) 追捕他的人可能会追随他。这是他最害怕的事情。而为了防止自己被背叛，他也尽可能地排斥了他的受害者，我！

2. By Rail.—There is no one in charge of the box. It would have to take its chance of being delayed, and delay would be fatal, with enemies on the track. True, he might escape at night. But what would he be, if left in a strange place with no refuge that he could fly to? This is not what he intends, and he does not mean to risk it.
2. 铁路运输——没有人负责箱子。它必须冒着被延误的机会，而延误将是致命的，因为敌人已经在轨道上了。确实，他可能会在晚上逃跑。但如果他被留在一个陌生的地方，没有可以飞去的避难所，他会变成什么样子呢？这不是他的本意，他也不想冒险。

3. By Water.—Here is the safest way, in one respect, but with most danger in another. On the water he is powerless except at night. Even then he can only summon fog and storm and snow and his wolves. But were he wrecked, the living water would engulf him, helpless, and he would indeed be lost. He could have the vessel drive to land, but if it were unfriendly land, wherein he was not free to move, his position would still be desperate.
3. 水路——从一方面来说，这是最安全的方式，但从另一方面来说，这是最危险的方式。除了晚上，在水上他无能为力。即便如此，他也只能召唤雾、风暴、雪和他的狼。但如果他失事了，活水就会吞没他，让他无助，他就真的迷失了。他可以让船只驶向陆地，但如果是不友好的陆地，他不能自由行动，他的处境仍然会很绝望。

We know from the record that he was on the water, so what we have to do is to ascertain what water.
我们从记录中知道他在水面上，所以我们要做的就是确定是什么水。

The first thing is to realize exactly what he has done as yet. We may, then, get a light on what his task is to be.
首先要做的就是准确地认识到他迄今为止所做的事情。那么我们就可以了解他的任务是什么。

Firstly.—We must differentiate between what he did in London as part of his general plan of action, when he was pressed for moments and had to arrange as best he could.
首先，我们必须区分他在伦敦所做的事情是他总体行动计划的一部分，当时他时间紧迫，必须尽其所能地做出安排。

Secondly we must see, as well as we can surmise it from the facts we know of, what he has done here.
其次，我们必须看到，并且可以根据我们所知道的事实来推测他在这里所做的事情。

As to the first, he evidently intended to arrive at Galatz, and sent invoice to Varna to deceive us lest we should ascertain his means of exit from England. His immediate and sole purpose then was to escape. The proof of this, is the letter of instructions sent to Immanuel Hildesheim to clear and take away the box before sunrise. There is also the instruction to Petrof Skinsky. These we must only guess at, but there must have been some letter or message, since Skinsky came to Hildesheim.
至于第一个，他显然打算到达加拉茨，并向瓦尔纳寄出发票来欺骗我们，以免我们查明他离开英国的方式。他当时唯一的直接目的就是逃跑。证明这一点的是发送给伊曼纽尔·希尔德斯海姆的指示信，要求他在日出之前清理并拿走盒子。还有给彼得罗夫·斯金斯基的指示。这些我们只能猜测，但自从斯金斯基来到希尔德斯海姆以来，肯定有一些信件或消息。

That, so far, his plans were successful we know. The Czarina Catherine made a phenomenally quick journey. So much so that Captain Donelson’s suspicions were aroused. But his superstition united with his canniness played the Count’s game for him, and he ran with his favouring wind through fogs and all till he brought up blindfold at Galatz. That the Count’s arrangements were well made, has been proved. Hildesheim cleared the box, took it off, and gave it to Skinsky. Skinsky took it, and here we lose the trail. We only know that the box is somewhere on the water, moving along. The customs and the octroi, if there be any, have been avoided.
到目前为止，我们知道他的计划是成功的。沙皇凯瑟琳号的旅程异常迅速。以至于引起了多纳尔森船长的怀疑。但他的迷信和他的精明结合在一起，为他玩了伯爵的游戏，他乘着他喜欢的风穿过迷雾，直到他蒙着眼睛来到加拉茨。事实证明，伯爵的安排是精心安排的。希尔德斯海姆清理了盒子，把它取下来，交给了斯金斯基。斯金斯基抓住了它，但我们在这里失去了踪迹。我们只知道盒子在水面上的某个地方，正在移动。海关和奥克特罗伊（如果有的话）都被避开了。

Now we come to what the Count must have done after his arrival, on land, at Galatz.
现在我们来看看伯爵抵达加拉茨陆地后一定做了什么。

The box was given to Skinsky before sunrise. At sunrise the Count could appear in his own form. Here, we ask why Skinsky was chosen at all to aid in the work? In my husband’s diary, Skinsky is mentioned as dealing with the Slovaks who trade down the river to the port. And the man’s remark, that the murder was the work of a Slovak, showed the general feeling against his class. The Count wanted isolation.
盒子在日出前交给了斯金斯基。日出时，伯爵会以他自己的形态出现。在这里，我们要问为什么选择斯金斯基来协助这项工作？在我丈夫的日记中，斯金斯基被提到与沿着河流到港口进行贸易的斯洛伐克人打交道。该男子声称谋杀案是一名斯洛伐克人所为，这表明了人们对他的阶级的普遍不满。伯爵想要孤立。

My surmise is this, that in London the Count decided to get back to his castle by water, as the most safe and secret way. He was brought from the castle by Szgany, and probably they delivered their cargo to Slovaks who took the boxes to Varna, for there they were shipped to London. Thus the Count had knowledge of the persons who could arrange this service. When the box was on land, before sunrise or after sunset, he came out from his box, met Skinsky and instructed him what to do as to arranging the carriage of the box up some river. When this was done, and he knew that all was in train, he blotted out his traces, as he thought, by murdering his agent.
我的猜测是，在伦敦，伯爵决定通过水路返回他的城堡，这是最安全、最秘密的方式。他是由斯加尼从城堡带出来的，很可能他们将货物交给了斯洛伐克人，斯洛伐克人将箱子运到了瓦尔纳，因为在那里它们被运到了伦敦。因此，伯爵了解可以安排这项服务的人员。当盒子在陆地上时，在日出之前或日落之后，他从盒子里出来，遇见了斯金斯基并指导他如何安排盒子的运输到河上。当这一切完成后，他知道一切都已就绪，正如他所想的那样，他通过谋杀他的特工抹去了他的痕迹。

I have examined the map and find that the river most suitable for the Slovaks to have ascended is either the Pruth or the Sereth. I read in the typescript that in my trance I heard cows low and water swirling level with my ears and the creaking of wood. The Count in his box, then, was on a river in an open boat, propelled probably either by oars or poles, for the banks are near and it is working against stream. There would be no such if floating down stream.
我查了一下地图，发现最适合斯洛伐克人登高的河流不是普鲁斯河就是塞雷斯河。我在打字稿中读到，在我的恍惚中，我听到牛群低声叫喊，水流在我耳边旋转，还有木头的嘎吱声。伯爵在他的包厢里，当时是在一条敞篷小船上，可能是用桨或杆推动的，因为河岸就在附近，而且它是逆流行驶的。如果顺流而下就不会有这样的情况了。

Of course it may not be either the Sereth or the Pruth, but we may possibly investigate further. Now of these two, the Pruth is the more easily navigated, but the Sereth is, at Fundu, joined by the Bistritza which runs up round the Borgo Pass. The loop it makes is manifestly as close to Dracula’s castle as can be got by water.
当然，它可能既不是塞雷斯人，也不是普鲁斯人，但我们可能会进一步调查。在这两条河中，普鲁特河更容易航行，但塞雷特河在丰杜与绕博尔戈山口流过的比斯特里察河汇合。它所形成的环路显然是最接近德古拉城堡的水路。

MINA HARKER’S JOURNAL—CONTINUED
米娜·哈克的日记——续

When I had done reading, Jonathan took me in his arms and kissed me. The others kept shaking me by both hands, and Dr. Van Helsing said, ‘Our dear Madam Mina is once more our teacher. Her eyes have been where we were blinded. Now we are on the track once again, and this time we may succeed. Our enemy is at his most helpless. And if we can come on him by day, on the water, our task will be over. He has a start, but he is powerless to hasten, as he may not leave this box lest those who carry him may suspect. For them to suspect would be to prompt them to throw him in the stream where he perish. This he knows, and will not. Now men, to our Council of War, for here and now, we must plan what each and all shall do.’
当我读完后，乔纳森把我抱在怀里，吻了我。其他人一直用双手摇晃我，范海辛博士说：“我们亲爱的米娜女士再次成为我们的老师。”她的眼睛一直是我们失明的地方。现在我们再次走上正轨，这一次我们可能会成功。我们的敌人正处于最无助的时候。如果我们能白天在水面上攻击他，我们的任务就结束了。他已经开始了，但他无力加速，因为他不能离开这个盒子，以免抬着他的人怀疑。对他们来说，怀疑就会促使他们把他扔进小溪里，然后他就死了。这一点他知道，但也不会。现在，各位，我们的战争委员会，此时此地，我们必须计划每个人应该做什么。

‘I shall get a steam launch and follow him,’ said Lord Godalming.
“我会开一艘蒸汽船跟着他，”戈达尔明勋爵说道。

‘And I, horses to follow on the bank lest by chance he land,’ said Mr. Morris.
“而我，则让马匹在岸边跟着，以免他偶然登陆，”莫里斯先生说。

‘Good!’ said the Professor, ‘both good. But neither must go alone. There must be force to overcome force if need be. The Slovak is strong and rough, and he carries rude arms.’ All the men smiled, for amongst them they carried a small arsenal.
“很好！”教授说，“都很好。”但两者都不能单独行动。如果需要的话，必须有力量来克服力量。斯洛伐克人强壮而粗鲁，他的武器也很粗鲁。”所有的人都笑了，因为他们手里拿着一个小武器库。

Said Mr. Morris, ‘I have brought some Winchesters. They are pretty handy in a crowd, and there may be wolves. The Count, if you remember, took some other precautions. He made some requisitions on others that Mrs. Harker could not quite hear or understand. We must be ready at all points.’
莫里斯先生说：“我带来了一些温彻斯特。”它们在人群中非常得心应手，而且可能有狼。如果你还记得的话，伯爵还采取了一些其他预防措施。他向其他人提出了一些要求，但哈克夫人不太能听到或理解。我们必须在各个方面做好准备。

Dr. Seward said, ‘I think I had better go with Quincey. We have been accustomed to hunt together, and we two, well armed, will be a match for whatever may come along. You must not be alone, Art. It may be necessary to fight the Slovaks, and a chance thrust, for I don’t suppose these fellows carry guns, would undo all our plans. There must be no chances, this time. We shall not rest until the Count’s head and body have been separated, and we are sure that he cannot reincarnate.’
苏厄德博士说：“我想我最好和昆西一起去。”我们已经习惯了一起打猎，而且我们两个都装备精良，无论遇到什么情况都会是对手。你一定不孤单，阿特。也许有必要与斯洛伐克人作战，而一次偶然的突袭，因为我不认为这些家伙携带枪支，会破坏我们所有的计划。这次一定没有机会了。直到伯爵的头和身体分离，我们确信他无法转世，我们才会休息。”

He looked at Jonathan as he spoke, and Jonathan looked at me. I could see that the poor dear was torn about in his mind. Of course he wanted to be with me. But then the boat service would, most likely, be the one which would destroy the … the … Vampire. (Why did I hesitate to write the word?)
他说话时看着乔纳森，乔纳森也看着我。我看得出来，这位可怜的亲爱的人心里很矛盾。他当然想和我在一起。但这样的话，船只服务很可能会摧毁……吸血鬼。 （为什么我犹豫要不要写这个词？）

He was silent awhile, and during his silence Dr. Van Helsing spoke, ‘Friend Jonathan, this is to you for twice reasons. First, because you are young and brave and can fight, and all energies may be needed at the last. And again that it is your right to destroy him. That, which has wrought such woe to you and yours. Be not afraid for Madam Mina. She will be my care, if I may. I am old. My legs are not so quick to run as once. And I am not used to ride so long or to pursue as need be, or to fight with lethal weapons. But I can be of other service. I can fight in other way. And I can die, if need be, as well as younger men. Now let me say that what I would is this. While you, my Lord Godalming and friend Jonathan go in your so swift little steamboat up the river, and whilst John and Quincey guard the bank where perchance he might be landed, I will take Madam Mina right into the heart of the enemy’s country. Whilst the old fox is tied in his box, floating on the running stream whence he cannot escape to land, where he dares not raise the lid of his coffin box lest his Slovak carriers should in fear leave him to perish, we shall go in the track where Jonathan went, from Bistritz over the Borgo, and find our way to the Castle of Dracula. Here, Madam Mina’s hypnotic power will surely help, and we shall find our way, all dark and unknown otherwise, after the first sunrise when we are near that fateful place. There is much to be done, and other places to be made sanctify, so that that nest of vipers be obliterated.’
他沉默了一会儿，在沉默中，范海辛博士说道：“朋友乔纳森，这对你来说有两个原因。”第一，因为你年轻、勇敢、能战斗，最后可能需要用尽所有的精力。再次强调摧毁他是你的权利。这给你和你的家人带来了如此大的灾难。不要为米娜女士担心。如果可以的话，她会照顾我。我老了。我的腿不像以前那么快跑了。而且我不习惯骑那么长的距离，也不习惯按需追击，也不习惯用致命武器战斗。但我可以提供其他服务。我可以用其他方式战斗。如果需要的话，我可以和年轻人一样死去。现在让我说我想要的就是这个。当你，戈达尔明勋爵和朋友乔纳森乘着你如此迅速的小汽船逆流而上时，当约翰和昆西守卫着他可能登陆的河岸时，我将带着米娜夫人直接进入敌人国家的中心。当老狐狸被绑在他的盒子里，漂浮在奔腾的溪流上时，他无法逃到陆地上，在那里他不敢打开棺材箱的盖子，以免他的斯洛伐克承运人害怕让他灭亡，我们将进入追踪乔纳森去过的地方，从比斯特里茨出发，越过博尔戈河，找到前往德古拉城堡的路。在这里，米娜女士的催眠力量肯定会有所帮助，在第一个日出之后，当我们接近那个致命的地方时，我们将找到我们的路，否则一切都是黑暗和未知的。我们还有很多工作要做，其他地方也需要净化，这样毒蛇的巢穴就会被消灭。”

Here Jonathan interrupted him hotly, ‘Do you mean to say, Professor Van Helsing, that you would bring Mina, in her sad case and tainted as she is with that devil’s illness, right into the jaws of his deathtrap? Not for the world! Not for Heaven or Hell!’
说到这里，乔纳森激烈地打断了他，“范海辛教授，你的意思是说，你会把米娜带入他的死亡陷阱吗？不为世界！不为天堂或地狱！’

He became almost speechless for a minute, and then went on, ‘Do you know what the place is? Have you seen that awful den of hellish infamy, with the very moonlight alive with grisly shapes, and every speck of dust that whirls in the wind a devouring monster in embryo? Have you felt the Vampire’s lips upon your throat?’
他几乎说不出话来，然后继续说道：“你知道那是什么地方吗？”你是否见过那个充满地狱般的耻辱的可怕巢穴，月光下充满了可怕的形状，风中旋转的每一粒尘埃都是胚胎中的吞噬怪物？你感觉到吸血鬼的嘴唇抵在你的喉咙上了吗？

Here he turned to me, and as his eyes lit on my forehead he threw up his arms with a cry, ‘Oh, my God, what have we done to have this terror upon us?’ and he sank down on the sofa in a collapse of misery.
说到这里，他转向我，当他的目光落在我的额头上时，他举起双臂喊道：“哦，天哪，我们做了什么，让这种恐惧降临在我们身上？”然后他一屁股坐在沙发上。苦难的崩溃。

The Professor’s voice, as he spoke in clear, sweet tones, which seemed to vibrate in the air, calmed us all.
教授的声音清晰、甜美，仿佛在空气中颤动，让我们大家平静下来。

‘Oh, my friend, it is because I would save Madam Mina from that awful place that I would go. God forbid that I should take her into that place. There is work, wild work, to be done before that place can be purify. Remember that we are in terrible straits. If the Count escape us this time, and he is strong and subtle and cunning, he may choose to sleep him for a century, and then in time our dear one,’ he took my hand, ‘would come to him to keep him company, and would be as those others that you, Jonathan, saw. You have told us of their gloating lips. You heard their ribald laugh as they clutched the moving bag that the Count threw to them. You shudder, and well may it be. Forgive me that I make you so much pain, but it is necessary. My friend, is it not a dire need for that which I am giving, possibly my life? If it were that any one went into that place to stay, it is I who would have to go to keep them company.’
“哦，我的朋友，这是因为我要把米娜女士从我要去的那个可怕的地方救出来。上帝禁止我带她去那个地方。在净化那个地方之前，还有很多工作要做，疯狂的工作。请记住，我们正处于可怕的困境中。如果伯爵这次逃脱了我们的追捕，而他又强大又狡猾，他可能会选择让他沉睡一个世纪，然后我们亲爱的，”他拉着我的手，“会来到他身边陪伴他。 ，就像你乔纳森看到的其他人一样。你已经告诉我们他们幸灾乐祸的嘴唇。当他们抓住伯爵扔给他们的移动袋子时，你听到他们粗俗的笑声。你不寒而栗，但愿如此。请原谅我让你如此痛苦，但这是必要的。我的朋友，这不是对我所给予的东西（可能是我的生命）的迫切需要吗？要是有人进那个地方去住的话，我就得去陪他们了。

‘Do as you will,’ said Jonathan, with a sob that shook him all over, ‘we are in the hands of God!’
“随你便吧，”乔纳森抽泣着说，“我们在上帝的手中！”

Later.—Oh, it did me good to see the way that these brave men worked. How can women help loving men when they are so earnest, and so true, and so brave! And, too, it made me think of the wonderful power of money! What can it not do when basely used. I felt so thankful that Lord Godalming is rich, and both he and Mr. Morris, who also has plenty of money, are willing to spend it so freely. For if they did not, our little expedition could not start, either so promptly or so well equipped, as it will within another hour. It is not three hours since it was arranged what part each of us was to do. And now Lord Godalming and Jonathan have a lovely steam launch, with steam up ready to start at a moment’s notice. Dr. Seward and Mr. Morris have half a dozen good horses, well appointed. We have all the maps and appliances of various kinds that can be had. Professor Van Helsing and I are to leave by the 11:40 train tonight for Veresti, where we are to get a carriage to drive to the Borgo Pass. We are bringing a good deal of ready money, as we are to buy a carriage and horses. We shall drive ourselves, for we have no one whom we can trust in the matter. The Professor knows something of a great many languages, so we shall get on all right. We have all got arms, even for me a large bore revolver. Jonathan would not be happy unless I was armed like the rest. Alas! I cannot carry one arm that the rest do, the scar on my forehead forbids that. Dear Dr. Van Helsing comforts me by telling me that I am fully armed as there may be wolves. The weather is getting colder every hour, and there are snow flurries which come and go as warnings.
后来——哦，看到这些勇敢的人的工作方式让我受益匪浅。当男人如此真诚、如此真实、如此勇敢时，女人如何能帮助他们呢？而且，它也让我想到了金钱的奇妙力量！基本使用时它不能做什么。我很庆幸戈达明勋爵很有钱，他和同样有钱的莫里斯先生都愿意这么大手大脚地花钱。因为如果他们不这样做，我们的小探险队就无法像在另一个小时内那样迅速或装备精良地开始。距离安排好我们每个人要做的事情还不到三个小时。现在，戈德尔明勋爵和乔纳森进行了一次可爱的蒸汽发射，蒸汽准备就绪，随时可以启动。苏厄德博士和莫里斯先生有六匹好马，装备精良。我们拥有所有可以拥有的地图和各种设备。范海辛教授和我今晚将乘 11:40 的火车前往韦莱斯蒂，在那里我们将乘坐马车前往博尔戈山口。我们带了很多现钱，准备买马车和马匹。我们要自己驱动，因为在这件事上我们没有可以信任的人。教授通晓多种语言，所以我们会相处得很好。我们都有武器，甚至我还有一把大口径左轮手枪。除非我像其他人一样武装起来，否则乔纳森不会高兴。唉!我不能像其他人那样抬起一只手臂，我额头上的伤疤不允许我这样做。亲爱的范海辛博士安慰我，告诉我我已经全副武装，因为可能有狼。天气每小时都在变冷，阵阵雪花来来去去都是警告。

Later.—It took all my courage to say goodbye to my darling. We may never meet again. Courage, Mina! The Professor is looking at you keenly. His look is a warning. There must be no tears now, unless it may be that God will let them fall in gladness.
后来——我用尽了所有的勇气才和我亲爱的说再见。我们可能再也不会见面了。勇气，米娜！教授正热切地看着你。他的眼神是警告。现在不能有眼泪，除非上帝会让他们高兴地掉下来。

JONATHAN HARKER’S JOURNAL
乔纳森·哈克的日记

30 October, night.—I am writing this in the light from the furnace door of the steam launch. Lord Godalming is firing up. He is an experienced hand at the work, as he has had for years a launch of his own on the Thames, and another on the Norfolk Broads. Regarding our plans, we finally decided that Mina’s guess was correct, and that if any waterway was chosen for the Count’s escape back to his Castle, the Sereth and then the Bistritza at its junction, would be the one. We took it, that somewhere about the 47th degree, north latitude, would be the place chosen for crossing the country between the river and the Carpathians. We have no fear in running at good speed up the river at night. There is plenty of water, and the banks are wide enough apart to make steaming, even in the dark, easy enough. Lord Godalming tells me to sleep for a while, as it is enough for the present for one to be on watch. But I cannot sleep, how can I with the terrible danger hanging over my darling, and her going out into that awful place …
10 月 30 日晚上。——我在蒸汽船炉门的灯光下写下这篇文章。戈达尔明勋爵正在火力全开。他在这项工作上是一位经验丰富的人，多年来他自己在泰晤士河上和诺福克湖区都有过一次发射。关于我们的计划，我们最终认为米娜的猜测是正确的，如果选择任何一条水道让伯爵逃回他的城堡，那么塞雷斯河和其交汇处的比斯特里察河就是一条。我们认为，北纬 47 度左右的某个地方将成为穿越喀尔巴阡河和喀尔巴阡山脉之间的国家的地点。我们毫不畏惧地在夜间以极快的速度沿河奔跑。这里水源充足，河岸间距足够宽，即使在黑暗中也能轻松地蒸腾。戈达尔明勋爵让我睡一会儿，因为现在有人值守就足够了。但我无法入睡，我的宝贝身上笼罩着可怕的危险，而她却要去那个可怕的地方……我怎么能入睡呢……

My only comfort is that we are in the hands of God. Only for that faith it would be easier to die than to live, and so be quit of all the trouble. Mr. Morris and Dr. Seward were off on their long ride before we started. They are to keep up the right bank, far enough off to get on higher lands where they can see a good stretch of river and avoid the following of its curves. They have, for the first stages, two men to ride and lead their spare horses, four in all, so as not to excite curiosity. When they dismiss the men, which shall be shortly, they shall themselves look after the horses. It may be necessary for us to join forces. If so they can mount our whole party. One of the saddles has a moveable horn, and can be easily adapted for Mina, if required.
我唯一的安慰是我们在神的手中。唯有这样的信念，死比活还容易，一切烦恼也都被抛掉了。在我们出发之前，莫里斯先生和苏厄德博士已经开始了他们的长途骑行。他们要保持在右岸，距离足够远，以便到达更高的土地，在那里他们可以看到大段河流并避免跟随它的曲线。在第一阶段，他们有两个人骑着并牵着他们的备用马，总共四匹，以免引起好奇。当他们很快解散这些人时，他们将自己看管马匹。我们可能有必要联手。如果是这样，他们就可以组织我们整个聚会。其中一个马鞍有一个可移动的喇叭，如果需要，可以很容易地适应米娜。

It is a wild adventure we are on. Here, as we are rushing along through the darkness, with the cold from the river seeming to rise up and strike us, with all the mysterious voices of the night around us, it all comes home. We seem to be drifting into unknown places and unknown ways. Into a whole world of dark and dreadful things. Godalming is shutting the furnace door …
我们正在进行一场疯狂的冒险。在这里，当我们在黑暗中奔跑时，河水的寒冷似乎升起袭击我们，夜色中所有神秘的声音围绕着我们，一切都回到了家。我们似乎正在漂流到未知的地方和未知的方式。进入一个充满黑暗和可怕事物的世界。戈德尔明正在关上炉门……

31 October.—Still hurrying along. The day has come, and Godalming is sleeping. I am on watch. The morning is bitterly cold, the furnace heat is grateful, though we have heavy fur coats. As yet we have passed only a few open boats, but none of them had on board any box or package of anything like the size of the one we seek. The men were scared every time we turned our electric lamp on them, and fell on their knees and prayed.
10 月 31 日——仍在匆匆前行。这一天已经到来，戈德尔明正在睡觉。我正在观察。早晨寒冷刺骨，虽然我们穿着厚重的皮大衣，炉火却很温暖。到目前为止，我们只经过了几艘敞开的船，但没有一艘船上有任何像我们要找的那种大小的盒子或包裹。每次我们把电灯放在他们身上时，他们都会感到害怕，并跪下来祈祷。

1 November, evening.—No news all day. We have found nothing of the kind we seek. We have now passed into the Bistritza, and if we are wrong in our surmise our chance is gone. We have overhauled every boat, big and little. Early this morning, one crew took us for a Government boat, and treated us accordingly. We saw in this a way of smoothing matters, so at Fundu, where the Bistritza runs into the Sereth, we got a Roumanian flag which we now fly conspicuously. With every boat which we have overhauled since then this trick has succeeded. We have had every deference shown to us, and not once any objection to whatever we chose to ask or do. Some of the Slovaks tell us that a big boat passed them, going at more than usual speed as she had a double crew on board. This was before they came to Fundu, so they could not tell us whether the boat turned into the Bistritza or continued on up the Sereth. At Fundu we could not hear of any such boat, so she must have passed there in the night. I am feeling very sleepy. The cold is perhaps beginning to tell upon me, and nature must have rest some time. Godalming insists that he shall keep the first watch. God bless him for all his goodness to poor dear Mina and me.
11 月 1 日晚上——一整天都没有消息。我们没有找到我们所寻求的那种东西。我们现在已经进入了比斯特里察，如果我们的猜测是错误的，那么我们的机会就消失了。我们对每艘船进行了大修，无论大小。今天一早，一名船员带我们上了一艘政府船，并给予了我们相应的待遇。我们认为这是一种缓和事情的方式，因此在比斯特里察河与塞雷特河交汇处的丰杜，我们得到了一面罗马尼亚国旗，现在我们醒目地悬挂着这面旗帜。从那时起，我们检修的每艘船都成功了。无论我们选择提出要求或做的事情，我们都得到了尊重，没有一次反对。一些斯洛伐克人告诉我们，一艘大船从他们身边驶过，由于船上有两名船员，所以速度比平常快。这是在他们到达丰杜之前，所以他们无法告诉我们船是转入比斯特里察河还是继续沿塞雷斯河而上。在丰杜，我们听不到任何这样的船，所以她一定是在夜间经过那里的。我感觉很困。也许寒冷已经开始影响我了，大自然必须休息一段时间了。戈德尔明坚持由他负责第一班值班。上帝保佑他对可怜的亲爱的米娜和我的一切善意。

2 November, morning.—It is broad daylight. That good fellow would not wake me. He says it would have been a sin to, for I slept peacefully and was forgetting my trouble. It seems brutally selfish to me to have slept so long, and let him watch all night, but he was quite right. I am a new man this morning. And, as I sit here and watch him sleeping, I can do all that is necessary both as to minding the engine, steering, and keeping watch. I can feel that my strength and energy are coming back to me. I wonder where Mina is now, and Van Helsing. They should have got to Veresti about noon on Wednesday. It would take them some time to get the carriage and horses. So if they had started and travelled hard, they would be about now at the Borgo Pass. God guide and help them! I am afraid to think what may happen. If we could only go faster. But we cannot. The engines are throbbing and doing their utmost. I wonder how Dr. Seward and Mr. Morris are getting on. There seem to be endless streams running down the mountains into this river, but as none of them are very large, at present, at all events, though they are doubtless terrible in winter and when the snow melts, the horsemen may not have met much obstruction. I hope that before we get to Strasba we may see them. For if by that time we have not overtaken the Count, it may be necessary to take counsel together what to do next.
11 月 2 日，早上。——天刚亮。那个好人不会叫醒我。他说那是一种罪孽，因为我睡得很安稳，忘记了我的烦恼。在我看来，睡了这么久，让他看着一整夜，这似乎太自私了，但他是对的。今天早上我是一个新人。而且，当我坐在这里看着他睡觉时，我可以做所有必要的事情，无论是照看发动机、转向还是保持警惕。我能感觉到我的力量和能量正在回归。我想知道米娜和范海辛现在在哪里。他们应该在周三中午左右到达韦莱斯蒂。马车和马匹要花一些时间才能弄到。因此，如果他们出发并努力前行，他们现在就已经到了博尔戈山口了。上帝引导并帮助他们！我害怕去想可能会发生什么。如果我们能走得更快就好了。但我们不能。引擎正在轰鸣并竭尽全力。我想知道苏厄德博士和莫里斯先生相处得怎么样。似乎有无穷无尽的溪流从山上流进这条河，但由于目前这些溪流都不是很大，无论如何，尽管它们在冬天和雪融化的时候无疑是可怕的，骑兵可能没有遇到太多。梗阻。我希望在我们到达斯特拉斯巴之前我们可以见到他们。因为如果到那时我们还没有追上伯爵，可能有必要共同商量下一步该做什么。

DR. SEWARD’S DIARY
博士。苏厄德的日记

2 November.—Three days on the road. No news, and no time to write it if there had been, for every moment is precious. We have had only the rest needful for the horses. But we are both bearing it wonderfully. Those adventurous days of ours are turning up useful. We must push on. We shall never feel happy till we get the launch in sight again.
11 月 2 日——三天的旅途。没有新闻，即使有也没有时间去写，因为每一刻都是宝贵的。我们只得到了马匹所需的休息。但我们都很好地承受了它。我们那些冒险的日子变得有用。我们必须继续前进。在我们再次看到发射之前，我们永远不会感到高兴。

3 November.—We heard at Fundu that the launch had gone up the Bistritza. I wish it wasn’t so cold. There are signs of snow coming. And if it falls heavy it will stop us. In such case we must get a sledge and go on, Russian fashion.
11 月 3 日——我们在丰杜听说发射已经沿着比斯特里察河而上。我希望天气没那么冷。有雪来的迹象。如果它掉得很重，我们就会停下来。在这种情况下，我们必须买一辆雪橇，继续俄罗斯时尚。

4 November.—Today we heard of the launch having been detained by an accident when trying to force a way up the rapids. The Slovak boats get up all right, by aid of a rope and steering with knowledge. Some went up only a few hours before. Godalming is an amateur fitter himself, and evidently it was he who put the launch in trim again.
11 月 4 日——今天，我们听说快艇在试图冲上急流时发生事故而被滞留。斯洛伐克的船只借助绳索和熟练的转向，可以顺利起立。有些仅在几个小时前上涨。戈达尔明本人就是一名业余装配工，显然是他让小艇重新调整好。

Finally, they got up the rapids all right, with local help, and are off on the chase afresh. I fear that the boat is not any better for the accident, the peasantry tell us that after she got upon smooth water again, she kept stopping every now and again so long as she was in sight. We must push on harder than ever. Our help may be wanted soon.
最后，在当地人的帮助下，他们成功地爬上了急流，并重新开始追逐。我担心这艘船并没有因为这次事故而好转，农民告诉我们，当她再次踏上平静的水面后，只要能看见她，她就时不时地停下来。我们必须比以往更加努力地前进。可能很快就会需要我们的帮助。

MINA HARKER’S JOURNAL
米娜·哈克的日记

31 October.—Arrived at Veresti at noon. The Professor tells me that this morning at dawn he could hardly hypnotize me at all, and that all I could say was, ‘dark and quiet.’ He is off now buying a carriage and horses. He says that he will later on try to buy additional horses, so that we may be able to change them on the way. We have something more than 70 miles before us. The country is lovely, and most interesting. If only we were under different conditions, how delightful it would be to see it all. If Jonathan and I were driving through it alone what a pleasure it would be. To stop and see people, and learn something of their life, and to fill our minds and memories with all the colour and picturesqueness of the whole wild, beautiful country and the quaint people! But, alas!
10 月 31 日——中午抵达韦雷斯蒂。教授告诉我，今天早上黎明时分，他根本无法催眠我，我只能说，“黑暗而安静。”他现在要去买马车和马匹。他说他稍后会尝试购买更多的马，这样我们就可以在途中更换它们。我们前面有超过 70 英里的东西。这个国家很可爱，也最有趣。如果我们处于不同的条件下，看到这一切该是多么令人高兴。如果乔纳森和我独自开车穿过它，那将是多么愉快的事情。停下来看看人们，了解他们的生活，让我们的思想和记忆充满整个狂野、美丽的国家和古雅人民的所有色彩和风景！可惜！

Later.—Dr. Van Helsing has returned. He has got the carriage and horses. We are to have some dinner, and to start in an hour. The landlady is putting us up a huge basket of provisions. It seems enough for a company of soldiers. The Professor encourages her, and whispers to me that it may be a week before we can get any food again. He has been shopping too, and has sent home such a wonderful lot of fur coats and wraps, and all sorts of warm things. There will not be any chance of our being cold.
后来。——博士。范海辛回来了。马车和马匹他都有了。我们要去吃晚饭，一小时后开始。女房东正在给我们准备一大篮子食物。对于一个连的士兵来说，这似乎足够了。教授鼓励她，并低声对我说，我们可能需要一周才能再次获得食物。他也一直在购物，并给家里寄了很多很棒的毛皮大衣和围巾，以及各种温暖的东西。我们不会有任何感到寒冷的机会。

We shall soon be off. I am afraid to think what may happen to us. We are truly in the hands of God. He alone knows what may be, and I pray Him, with all the strength of my sad and humble soul, that He will watch over my beloved husband. That whatever may happen, Jonathan may know that I loved him and honoured him more than I can say, and that my latest and truest thought will be always for him.
我们很快就要出发了。我不敢想象我们会发生什么。我们确实在神的手中。只有他知道会发生什么，我用我悲伤而谦卑的灵魂的全部力量祈祷他会看顾我心爱的丈夫。无论发生什么，乔纳森都知道我对他的爱和尊敬超过了我所能说的，而且我最新、最真实的想法将永远是为了他。

Chapter 27
第27章

MINA HARKER’S JOURNAL
米娜·哈克的日记

1 November.—All day long we have travelled, and at a good speed. The horses seem to know that they are being kindly treated, for they go willingly their full stage at best speed. We have now had so many changes and find the same thing so constantly that we are encouraged to think that the journey will be an easy one. Dr. Van Helsing is laconic, he tells the farmers that he is hurrying to Bistritz, and pays them well to make the exchange of horses. We get hot soup, or coffee, or tea, and off we go. It is a lovely country. Full of beauties of all imaginable kinds, and the people are brave, and strong, and simple, and seem full of nice qualities. They are very, very superstitious. In the first house where we stopped, when the woman who served us saw the scar on my forehead, she crossed herself and put out two fingers towards me, to keep off the evil eye. I believe they went to the trouble of putting an extra amount of garlic into our food, and I can’t abide garlic. Ever since then I have taken care not to take off my hat or veil, and so have escaped their suspicions. We are travelling fast, and as we have no driver with us to carry tales, we go ahead of scandal. But I daresay that fear of the evil eye will follow hard behind us all the way. The Professor seems tireless. All day he would not take any rest, though he made me sleep for a long spell. At sunset time he hypnotized me, and he says I answered as usual, ‘darkness, lapping water and creaking wood.’ So our enemy is still on the river. I am afraid to think of Jonathan, but somehow I have now no fear for him, or for myself. I write this whilst we wait in a farmhouse for the horses to be ready. Dr. Van Helsing is sleeping. Poor dear, he looks very tired and old and grey, but his mouth is set as firmly as a conqueror’s. Even in his sleep he is intense with resolution. When we have well started I must make him rest whilst I drive. I shall tell him that we have days before us, and he must not break down when most of all his strength will be needed … All is ready. We are off shortly.
11 月 1 日——我们一整天都在旅行，而且速度很快。马匹似乎知道自己受到了善意的对待，因为它们心甘情愿地以最快的速度跑完了整个赛段。我们现在经历了如此多的变化，并不断发现同样的事情，以至于我们被鼓励认为这一旅程将是一个轻松的旅程。范海辛医生言辞简洁，他告诉农民他正赶往比斯特里茨，并付给他们丰厚的报酬以交换马匹。我们喝了热汤、咖啡或茶，然后就出发了。这是一个可爱的国家。充满了各种各样的美丽，人们勇敢、坚强、纯朴，似乎充满了美好的品质。他们非常非常迷信。在我们停下来的第一栋房子里，当服务我们的女士看到我额头上的伤疤时，她在胸前画了十字，并向我伸出了两根手指，以避开邪恶的目光。我相信他们不厌其烦地在我们的食物中加入了额外的大蒜，而我不能忍受大蒜。从那时起，我就小心翼翼地不摘下帽子或面纱，这样就逃脱了他们的怀疑。我们行驶得很快，而且没有司机陪伴我们传播故事，所以我们走在丑闻的前面。但我敢说，对邪眼的恐惧会一直跟在我们身后。教授似乎不知疲倦。他一整天都没有休息，尽管他让我睡了很长一段时间。日落时分，他对我进行了催眠，他说我像往常一样回答说：“黑暗，拍打着水，嘎吱作响的木头。”所以我们的敌人仍然在河上。我害怕想起乔纳森，但不知何故，我现在不再为他或我自己担心。当我们在农舍里等待马匹准备好时，我写下了这篇文章。范海辛博士正在睡觉。可怜的亲爱的，他看起来很疲惫，又老又灰白，但他的嘴却像征服者一样坚定。 即使在睡梦中，他也充满决心。当我们起步良好时，我必须在开车时让他休息。我会告诉他，我们还有好几天，当最需要他的力量时，他一定不能崩溃……一切都准备好了。我们很快就出发了。

2 November, morning.—I was successful, and we took turns driving all night. Now the day is on us, bright though cold. There is a strange heaviness in the air. I say heaviness for want of a better word. I mean that it oppresses us both. It is very cold, and only our warm furs keep us comfortable. At dawn Van Helsing hypnotized me. He says I answered ‘darkness, creaking wood and roaring water,’ so the river is changing as they ascend. I do hope that my darling will not run any chance of danger, more than need be, but we are in God’s hands.
11 月 2 日，早上。——我成功了，我们整夜轮流开车。现在，这一天已经来临，虽然寒冷，但阳光明媚。空气中有一种奇怪的沉重。我说沉重是因为找不到更好的词。我的意思是它压迫了我们俩。天气很冷，只有温暖的毛皮才能让我们感到舒服。黎明时分，范海辛对我进行了催眠。他说我的回答是“黑暗、吱吱作响的木头和咆哮的水流”，所以当他们上升时，河流正在发生变化。我确实希望我的宝贝不会遇到任何不必要的危险，但我们都在上帝的手中。

2 November, night.—All day long driving. The country gets wilder as we go, and the great spurs of the Carpathians, which at Veresti seemed so far from us and so low on the horizon, now seem to gather round us and tower in front. We both seem in good spirits. I think we make an effort each to cheer the other, in the doing so we cheer ourselves. Dr. Van Helsing says that by morning we shall reach the Borgo Pass. The houses are very few here now, and the Professor says that the last horse we got will have to go on with us, as we may not be able to change. He got two in addition to the two we changed, so that now we have a rude four-in-hand. The dear horses are patient and good, and they give us no trouble. We are not worried with other travellers, and so even I can drive. We shall get to the Pass in daylight. We do not want to arrive before. So we take it easy, and have each a long rest in turn. Oh, what will tomorrow bring to us? We go to seek the place where my poor darling suffered so much. God grant that we may be guided aright, and that He will deign to watch over my husband and those dear to us both, and who are in such deadly peril. As for me, I am not worthy in His sight. Alas! I am unclean to His eyes, and shall be until He may deign to let me stand forth in His sight as one of those who have not incurred His wrath.
11 月 2 日晚上——整天开车。随着我们的前进，这个国家变得更加荒凉，而喀尔巴阡山脉的巨大山刺，在维雷斯蒂似乎离我们那么远，在地平线上那么低，现在似乎聚集在我们周围，高耸在前面。我们俩看起来精神都很好。我认为我们每个人都努力为对方加油，在这样做的过程中我们也为自己加油。范海辛博士说，早上我们将到达博尔戈山口。现在这里的房子很少了，教授说我们最后得到的一匹马必须和我们一起继续，因为我们可能无法改变。除了我们改变的两个之外，他还得到了两个，所以现在我们有一个粗鲁的四手牌。亲爱的马儿们都很有耐心，也很善良，它们不会给我们带来任何麻烦。我们不担心其他旅客，所以我也可以开车。我们将在白天到达山口。我们不想提前到达。于是我们就慢慢地，轮流休息了很长时间。哦，明天会给我们带来什么？我们去寻找我可怜的宝贝遭受如此痛苦的地方。愿上帝保佑我们得到正确的引导，愿他屈尊看顾我的丈夫和我们所亲爱的人，他们正处于如此致命的危险之中。至于我，在他眼中我是不配的。唉!在他眼中我是不洁净的，直到他屈尊让我作为那些没有招致他愤怒的人之一站在他的面前。

MEMORANDUM BY ABRAHAM VAN HELSING
亚伯拉罕·范海辛的备忘录

4 November.—This to my old and true friend John Seward, M.D., of Purfleet, London, in case I may not see him. It may explain. It is morning, and I write by a fire which all the night I have kept alive, Madam Mina aiding me. It is cold, cold. So cold that the grey heavy sky is full of snow, which when it falls will settle for all winter as the ground is hardening to receive it. It seems to have affected Madam Mina. She has been so heavy of head all day that she was not like herself. She sleeps, and sleeps, and sleeps! She who is usual so alert, have done literally nothing all the day. She even have lost her appetite. She make no entry into her little diary, she who write so faithful at every pause. Something whisper to me that all is not well. However, tonight she is more vif. Her long sleep all day have refresh and restore her, for now she is all sweet and bright as ever. At sunset I try to hypnotize her, but alas! with no effect. The power has grown less and less with each day, and tonight it fail me altogether. Well, God’s will be done, whatever it may be, and whithersoever it may lead!
11 月 4 日。——谨此致我的老朋友、来自伦敦珀弗利特的医学博士约翰·苏厄德 (John Seward)，以防我见不到他。或许可以解释一下。早晨，我在米娜夫人的帮助下，在我整晚都保持着生机的火旁写作。天气很冷，很冷。如此寒冷，灰色厚重的天空布满了雪，当雪落下时，随着地面变硬以接受它，整个冬天都会沉降下来。看来米娜夫人也受到了影响。她整天头重脚轻，完全不像自己了。她睡了，睡了，睡了！平时一向警觉的她，今天几乎什么也没做。她甚至连胃口都没有了。她没有在她的小日记里写任何内容，她在每一次停顿时都写得如此忠实。有什么东西在悄悄告诉我，一切都不太好。不过，今晚她更有活力了。一整天的长眠让她神清气爽，精神焕发，现在她一如既往地甜美明亮。日落时分，我试图催眠她，但是唉！没有效果。力量一天比一天弱，今晚我完全失去了力量。好吧，上帝的旨意一定会实现，无论它是什么，也无论它通向何方！

Now to the historical, for as Madam Mina write not in her stenography, I must, in my cumbrous old fashion, that so each day of us may not go unrecorded.
现在谈谈历史，因为米娜女士没有速记，我必须以我笨拙的旧方式，这样我们的每一天都不会被记录下来。

We got to the Borgo Pass just after sunrise yesterday morning. When I saw the signs of the dawn I got ready for the hypnotism. We stopped our carriage, and got down so that there might be no disturbance. I made a couch with furs, and Madam Mina, lying down, yield herself as usual, but more slow and more short time than ever, to the hypnotic sleep. As before, came the answer, ‘darkness and the swirling of water.’ Then she woke, bright and radiant and we go on our way and soon reach the Pass. At this time and place, she become all on fire with zeal. Some new guiding power be in her manifested, for she point to a road and say, ‘This is the way.’
昨天早上日出后我们就到达了博尔戈山口。当我看到黎明的迹象时，我就做好了催眠的准备。我们停下马车，下了车，免得有人打扰。我用毛皮做了一张沙发，米娜夫人躺了下来，像往常一样屈服于催眠般的睡眠，但比以往任何时候都更缓慢、更短。和以前一样，答案是：“黑暗和水的漩涡。”然后她醒来，明亮而容光焕发，我们继续上路，很快就到达了山口。此时此地，她变得热情似火。她身上体现了某种新的指导力量，因为她指着一条路说：“就是这条路。”

‘How know you it?’ I ask.
“你怎么知道的？”我问。

‘Of course I know it,’ she answer, and with a pause, add, ‘Have not my Jonathan travelled it and wrote of his travel?’
“我当然知道，”她回答道，停顿了一下，补充道，“我的乔纳森不是去过那里并写过他的旅行吗？”

At first I think somewhat strange, but soon I see that there be only one such byroad. It is used but little, and very different from the coach road from the Bukovina to Bistritz, which is more wide and hard, and more of use.
起初我觉得有些奇怪，但很快我发现这样的小路只有一条。它的使用率很低，而且与从布科维纳到比斯特里茨的长途汽车路有很大不同，后者更宽、更坚硬，而且使用率更高。

So we came down this road. When we meet other ways, not always were we sure that they were roads at all, for they be neglect and light snow have fallen, the horses know and they only. I give rein to them, and they go on so patient. By and by we find all the things which Jonathan have note in that wonderful diary of him. Then we go on for long, long hours and hours. At the first, I tell Madam Mina to sleep. She try, and she succeed. She sleep all the time, till at the last, I feel myself to suspicious grow, and attempt to wake her. But she sleep on, and I may not wake her though I try. I do not wish to try too hard lest I harm her. For I know that she have suffer much, and sleep at times be all-in-all to her. I think I drowse myself, for all of sudden I feel guilt, as though I have done something. I find myself bolt up, with the reins in my hand, and the good horses go along jog, jog, just as ever. I look down and find Madam Mina still asleep. It is now not far off sunset time, and over the snow the light of the sun flow in big yellow flood, so that we throw great long shadow on where the mountain rise so steep. For we are going up, and up, and all is oh, so wild and rocky, as though it were the end of the world.
所以我们就走上了这条路。当我们遇到其他道路时，我们并不总是确定它们根本就是道路，因为它们被忽视了，并且下了小雪，马知道，而且只有它们知道。我给他们控制权，他们就这么耐心地走下去。渐渐地，我们找到了乔纳森在他精彩的日记中记下的所有事情。然后我们继续很长很长的时间。一开始，我叫米娜女士睡觉。她尝试了，并且成功了。她一直在睡觉，直到最后，我感到自己起了疑心，并试图叫醒她。但她还在睡觉，尽管我尽力了，也可能吵不醒她。我不想太用力，以免伤害她。因为我知道她受了很多苦，睡眠有时对她来说是最重要的。我想我自己在打瞌睡，突然间我感到内疚，好像我做了什么事情。我发现自己精神抖擞，手里握着缰绳，好马像以前一样慢跑、慢跑。我低头一看，发现米娜女士还在睡觉。现在距离日落时间已经不远了，太阳的光芒在雪地上流动，泛着黄色的洪水，使我们在山势陡峭的地方投下巨大的长长的阴影。因为我们正在向上，向上，一切都是如此狂野和崎岖，仿佛这是世界末日。

Then I arouse Madam Mina. This time she wake with not much trouble, and then I try to put her to hypnotic sleep. But she sleep not, being as though I were not. Still I try and try, till all at once I find her and myself in dark, so I look round, and find that the sun have gone down. Madam Mina laugh, and I turn and look at her. She is now quite awake, and look so well as I never saw her since that night at Carfax when we first enter the Count’s house. I am amaze, and not at ease then. But she is so bright and tender and thoughtful for me that I forget all fear. I light a fire, for we have brought supply of wood with us, and she prepare food while I undo the horses and set them, tethered in shelter, to feed. Then when I return to the fire she have my supper ready. I go to help her, but she smile, and tell me that she have eat already. That she was so hungry that she would not wait. I like it not, and I have grave doubts. But I fear to affright her, and so I am silent of it. She help me and I eat alone, and then we wrap in fur and lie beside the fire, and I tell her to sleep while I watch. But presently I forget all of watching. And when I sudden remember that I watch, I find her lying quiet, but awake, and looking at me with so bright eyes. Once, twice more the same occur, and I get much sleep till before morning. When I wake I try to hypnotize her, but alas! Though she shut her eyes obedient, she may not sleep. The sun rise up, and up, and up, and then sleep come to her too late, but so heavy that she will not wake. I have to lift her up, and place her sleeping in the carriage when I have harnessed the horses and made all ready. Madam still sleep, and she look in her sleep more healthy and more redder than before. And I like it not. And I am afraid, afraid, afraid! I am afraid of all things, even to think but I must go on my way. The stake we play for is life and death, or more than these, and we must not flinch.
然后我唤醒了米娜女士。这次她醒得很顺利，然后我尝试让她进入催眠状态。但她没有睡觉，就好像我没有睡觉一样。我仍然不断地尝试，直到突然发现她和我自己都在黑暗中，于是我环顾四周，发现太阳已经落山了。米娜女士笑了，我转身看着她。她现在已经完全醒了，看上去状态很好，自从那天晚上我们在卡法克斯第一次进入伯爵家以来，我从未见过她。我很惊讶，然后又不放心。但她对我来说是如此的聪明、温柔和体贴，让我忘记了所有的恐惧。我生了火，因为我们带来了木材，她准备食物，而我解开马匹，把它们拴在庇护所里喂食。然后，当我回到火边时，她已经为我准备好了晚餐。我去帮助她，但她微笑着告诉我她已经吃过了。她太饿了，等不及了。我不喜欢它，并且我有严重的怀疑。但我怕惊吓到她，所以我保持沉默。她帮助我和我单独吃饭，然后我们裹着毛皮躺在火边，我让她在我看着的时候睡觉。但现在我忘记了所有的观看。当我突然记起我在看的时候，我发现她安静地躺着，但醒着，用明亮的眼睛看着我。一次、两次，同样的情况又发生了，我睡了很多觉，直到早上。当我醒来时，我试图催眠她，但是唉！虽然她听话地闭上了眼睛，但她可能睡不着。太阳升起来了，升起来了，升起来了，然后她就睡着了，虽然来得太晚了，但睡得太沉了，她醒不过来。当我套好马匹并准备好一切后，我必须把她抱起来，把她放在马车上睡觉。夫人还在睡觉，睡梦中的她看起来比以前更加健康，更加红润。我不喜欢这样。而且我害怕，害怕，害怕！ 我害怕一切，甚至连思考都害怕，但我必须继续我的路。我们所赌的赌注是生与死，或者比这些更重要，我们决不能退缩。

5 November, morning.—Let me be accurate in everything, for though you and I have seen some strange things together, you may at the first think that I, Van Helsing, am mad. That the many horrors and the so long strain on nerves has at the last turn my brain.
11 月 5 日，早上。——让我在所有事情上都准确无误，因为虽然你和我一起看到了一些奇怪的事情，但你可能一开始会认为我，范海辛，疯了。众多的恐怖和如此长时间的神经紧张最终让我的大脑转动起来。

All yesterday we travel, always getting closer to the mountains, and moving into a more and more wild and desert land. There are great, frowning precipices and much falling water, and Nature seem to have held sometime her carnival. Madam Mina still sleep and sleep. And though I did have hunger and appeased it, I could not waken her, even for food. I began to fear that the fatal spell of the place was upon her, tainted as she is with that Vampire baptism. ‘Well,’ said I to myself, ‘if it be that she sleep all the day, it shall also be that I do not sleep at night.’ As we travel on the rough road, for a road of an ancient and imperfect kind there was, I held down my head and slept.
昨天我们一直在旅行，总是离山越来越近，进入越来越荒凉的沙漠地带。这里有巨大的、令人皱眉的悬崖和大量的落水，大自然似乎曾经举办过她的狂欢节。米娜夫人还在睡觉啊。尽管我确实感到饥饿并安抚了它，但我无法唤醒她，即使是为了食物。我开始担心这个地方的致命咒语会降临在她身上，因为她受到了吸血鬼洗礼的玷污。 “好吧，”我对自己说，“如果她整天睡觉，那我晚上也睡不着觉。”当我们在崎岖不平的道路上行驶时，这是一条古老而不完美的道路。就这样，我低着头睡了。

Again I waked with a sense of guilt and of time passed, and found Madam Mina still sleeping, and the sun low down. But all was indeed changed. The frowning mountains seemed further away, and we were near the top of a steep rising hill, on summit of which was such a castle as Jonathan tell of in his diary. At once I exulted and feared. For now, for good or ill, the end was near.
我再次带着愧疚感醒来，时间过去了，发现米娜女士还在睡觉，太阳已经落下去了。但一切确实都改变了。皱眉的山脉似乎离我们更远了，我们已经接近一座陡峭的山顶，山顶上有一座乔纳森在日记中提到的城堡。我立刻又高兴又害怕。现在，无论好坏，结局已经临近了。

I woke Madam Mina, and again tried to hypnotize her, but alas! unavailing till too late. Then, ere the great dark came upon us, for even after down sun the heavens reflected the gone sun on the snow, and all was for a time in a great twilight. I took out the horses and fed them in what shelter I could. Then I make a fire, and near it I make Madam Mina, now awake and more charming than ever, sit comfortable amid her rugs. I got ready food, but she would not eat, simply saying that she had not hunger. I did not press her, knowing her unavailingness. But I myself eat, for I must needs now be strong for all. Then, with the fear on me of what might be, I drew a ring so big for her comfort, round where Madam Mina sat. And over the ring I passed some of the wafer, and I broke it fine so that all was well guarded. She sat still all the time, so still as one dead. And she grew whiter and even whiter till the snow was not more pale, and no word she said. But when I drew near, she clung to me, and I could know that the poor soul shook her from head to feet with a tremor that was pain to feel.
我叫醒了米娜女士，并再次尝试催眠她，但是唉！直到为时已晚。然后，在巨大的黑暗降临到我们身上之前，因为即使在太阳落山之后，天空仍将落日反射在雪地上，一切都暂时陷入了巨大的暮色之中。我把马拿出来，在尽可能的庇护所里喂它们。然后我生了火，在火边让米娜女士舒服地坐在她的地毯上，她现在已经醒了，比以前更迷人了。我准备好了食物，但她不吃，只说不饿。我知道她无能为力，所以没有催促她。但我自己吃东西，因为我现在必须为了所有人而坚强。然后，出于对可能发生的事情的恐惧，我在米娜女士坐的地方画了一个这么大的戒指，以让她感到舒适。我在圆环上传递了一些薄饼，然后把它打碎，这样所有的东西都得到了很好的保护。她一直一动不动地坐着，一动不动，就像死了一样。她的脸色越来越白，直到雪色不再苍白，她也不再说话。但当我走近时，她紧紧地抱住我，我知道这个可怜的灵魂使她从头到脚摇晃，颤抖得令人痛苦。

I said to her presently, when she had grown more quiet, ‘Will you not come over to the fire?’ for I wished to make a test of what she could. She rose obedient, but when she have made a step she stopped, and stood as one stricken.
不久，当她变得安静下来时，我对她说：“你不愿意到火边来吗？”因为我想测试一下她能做什么。她顺从地站了起来，但当她迈出一步时，她停了下来，震惊地站着。

‘Why not go on?’ I asked. She shook her head, and coming back, sat down in her place. Then, looking at me with open eyes, as of one waked from sleep, she said simply, ‘I cannot!’ and remained silent. I rejoiced, for I knew that what she could not, none of those that we dreaded could. Though there might be danger to her body, yet her soul was safe!
“为什么不继续呢？”我问。她摇了摇头，回过神来，在自己的位置上坐下。然后，她睁开眼睛看着我，就像从睡梦中醒来一样，简单地说：“我不能！”然后保持沉默。我很高兴，因为我知道她做不到的事情，我们害怕的人也做不到。虽然身体有危险，但她的灵魂却是安全的！

Presently the horses began to scream, and tore at their tethers till I came to them and quieted them. When they did feel my hands on them, they whinnied low as in joy, and licked at my hands and were quiet for a time. Many times through the night did I come to them, till it arrive to the cold hour when all nature is at lowest, and every time my coming was with quiet of them. In the cold hour the fire began to die, and I was about stepping forth to replenish it, for now the snow came in flying sweeps and with it a chill mist. Even in the dark there was a light of some kind, as there ever is over snow, and it seemed as though the snow flurries and the wreaths of mist took shape as of women with trailing garments. All was in dead, grim silence only that the horses whinnied and cowered, as if in terror of the worst. I began to fear, horrible fears. But then came to me the sense of safety in that ring wherein I stood. I began too, to think that my imaginings were of the night, and the gloom, and the unrest that I have gone through, and all the terrible anxiety. It was as though my memories of all Jonathan’s horrid experience were befooling me. For the snow flakes and the mist began to wheel and circle round, till I could get as though a shadowy glimpse of those women that would have kissed him. And then the horses cowered lower and lower, and moaned in terror as men do in pain. Even the madness of fright was not to them, so that they could break away. I feared for my dear Madam Mina when these weird figures drew near and circled round. I looked at her, but she sat calm, and smiled at me. When I would have stepped to the fire to replenish it, she caught me and held me back, and whispered, like a voice that one hears in a dream, so low it was.
不久，马匹开始尖叫，并撕扯它们的绳索，直到我走到它们身边，让它们安静下来。当它们确实感觉到我的手放在它们身上时，它们就像高兴一样发出低沉的呜呜声，并舔着我的手，然后安静了一会儿。整个晚上我多次来到他们身边，直到天寒地冻，所有的大自然都处于最低谷，而每次我的到来都伴随着他们的安静。在寒冷的时刻，火开始熄灭，我正要上前去补充火，因为现在雪花飞舞地扫过来，伴随着寒冷的雾气。即使在黑暗中，也有某种光亮，就像雪上的光一样，雪花飞舞，薄雾的花环形成了，就像穿着拖曳衣服的女人一样。一切都陷入死一般的寂静，只有马匹嘶鸣着、畏缩着，仿佛害怕最坏的情况发生。我开始害怕，可怕的恐惧。但随后我在我所站的那个圆环里感受到了安全感。我也开始认为我的想象是夜晚、阴郁、我所经历的不安和所有可怕的焦虑。就好像我对乔纳森所有可怕经历的记忆都在欺骗我。雪花和雾气开始旋转、盘旋，直到我隐隐约约地瞥见那些想要亲吻他的女人。然后马匹越缩越低，发出恐惧的呻吟声，就像人们痛苦时一样。就连惊恐的疯狂都对他们没有影响，让他们能够挣脱。当这些奇怪的人影靠近并盘旋时，我为我亲爱的米娜女士感到担心。我看着她，但她平静地坐着，对我微笑。当我准备走到火边去添火的时候，她却一把抓住了我，将我拉住，低声说道，声音像梦中听到的，那么低。

‘No! No! Do not go without. Here you are safe!’
'不！不！不要没有。你在这里很安全！

I turned to her, and looking in her eyes said, ‘But you? It is for you that I fear!’
我转向她，看着她的眼睛说：‘那么你呢？我担心的是你！

Whereat she laughed, a laugh low and unreal, and said, ‘Fear for me! Why fear for me? None safer in all the world from them than I am,’ and as I wondered at the meaning of her words, a puff of wind made the flame leap up, and I see the red scar on her forehead. Then, alas! I knew. Did I not, I would soon have learned, for the wheeling figures of mist and snow came closer, but keeping ever without the Holy circle. Then they began to materialize till, if God have not taken away my reason, for I saw it through my eyes. There were before me in actual flesh the same three women that Jonathan saw in the room, when they would have kissed his throat. I knew the swaying round forms, the bright hard eyes, the white teeth, the ruddy colour, the voluptuous lips. They smiled ever at poor dear Madam Mina. And as their laugh came through the silence of the night, they twined their arms and pointed to her, and said in those so sweet tingling tones that Jonathan said were of the intolerable sweetness of the water glasses, ‘Come, sister. Come to us. Come!’
她听后大笑起来，笑声低沉而不真实，说道：“为我担心吧！”为什么要为我担心？世界上没有人比我更安全了。”当我想知道她话里的意思时，一阵风让火焰腾了起来，我看到了她额头上的红色疤痕。那么，唉！我知道。我很快就会明白，是不是我没有，因为雾和雪的旋转身影越来越近，但始终没有进入神圣的圆圈。然后它们开始具体化，直到上帝没有拿走我的理性，因为我通过我的眼睛看到了它。在我面前，真实存在的三个女人就是乔纳森在房间里看到的那三个女人，当时她们会亲吻他的喉咙。我熟悉那摇曳的圆形身影、明亮而冷酷的眼睛、洁白的牙齿、红润的肤色、性感的嘴唇。他们永远对可怜的亲爱的米娜女士微笑。当他们的笑声穿过寂静的夜色时，他们挽起双臂，指着她，用乔纳森所说的那种甜蜜而刺痛的语气说，“来吧，妹妹。”来找我们。来！'

In fear I turned to my poor Madam Mina, and my heart with gladness leapt like flame. For oh! the terror in her sweet eyes, the repulsion, the horror, told a story to my heart that was all of hope. God be thanked she was not, yet of them. I seized some of the firewood which was by me, and holding out some of the Wafer, advanced on them towards the fire. They drew back before me, and laughed their low horrid laugh. I fed the fire, and feared them not. For I knew that we were safe within the ring, which she could not leave no more than they could enter. The horses had ceased to moan, and lay still on the ground. The snow fell on them softly, and they grew whiter. I knew that there was for the poor beasts no more of terror.
我恐惧地转向我可怜的米娜夫人，我的心像火焰一样欢快地跳动。为了哦！她甜蜜的眼神中的恐惧、厌恶、恐惧，向我的内心讲述了一个充满希望的故事。感谢上帝，她还不是他们中的一员。我抓起手边的一些柴火，拿出一些薄饼，朝火堆走去。他们在我面前退后一步，发出低沉而可怕的笑声。我生火，并不害怕他们。因为我知道我们在擂台内是安全的，她不能离开擂台，正如他们不能进入擂台一样。马匹不再呻吟，一动不动地躺在地上。雪轻轻地落在他们身上，他们变得更白了。我知道对于这些可怜的野兽来说，不再有恐惧了。

And so we remained till the red of the dawn began to fall through the snow gloom. I was desolate and afraid, and full of woe and terror. But when that beautiful sun began to climb the horizon life was to me again. At the first coming of the dawn the horrid figures melted in the whirling mist and snow. The wreaths of transparent gloom moved away towards the castle, and were lost.
我们就这样一直待到黎明的红色开始穿过雪色的阴暗。我感到孤独和恐惧，充满了悲伤和恐惧。但当那美丽的太阳开始爬上地平线时，生活又对我来说了。黎明刚一来临，那些可怕的人影就融化在旋转的雾气和雪中。透明的幽暗花环移向城堡，消失了。

Instinctively, with the dawn coming, I turned to Madam Mina, intending to hypnotize her. But she lay in a deep and sudden sleep, from which I could not wake her. I tried to hypnotize through her sleep, but she made no response, none at all, and the day broke. I fear yet to stir. I have made my fire and have seen the horses, they are all dead. Today I have much to do here, and I keep waiting till the sun is up high. For there may be places where I must go, where that sunlight, though snow and mist obscure it, will be to me a safety.
随着黎明的到来，我本能地转向米娜女士，打算对她进行催眠。但她突然陷入了沉睡，我无法叫醒她。我试图通过她的睡眠来催眠，但她没有任何反应，根本没有，天就亮了。我恐怕还没有动静。我生了火，也看到了马，它们都死了。今天我在这里有很多事情要做，我一直等到太阳升起。因为也许有些地方是我必须去的地方，那里的阳光虽然被雪和雾遮挡，但对我来说是安全的。

I will strengthen me with breakfast, and then I will do my terrible work. Madam Mina still sleeps, and God be thanked! She is calm in her sleep …
我会用早餐来增强我的体力，然后我就会做我糟糕的工作。米娜女士还在睡觉，感谢上帝！她在睡梦中很平静……

JONATHAN HARKER’S JOURNAL
乔纳森·哈克的日记

4 November, evening.—The accident to the launch has been a terrible thing for us. Only for it we should have overtaken the boat long ago, and by now my dear Mina would have been free. I fear to think of her, off on the wolds near that horrid place. We have got horses, and we follow on the track. I note this whilst Godalming is getting ready. We have our arms. The Szgany must look out if they mean to fight. Oh, if only Morris and Seward were with us. We must only hope! If I write no more Goodby Mina! God bless and keep you.
11 月 4 日晚上。——发射事故对我们来说是一件可怕的事情。正因为如此，我们早就应该赶上船了，现在我亲爱的米娜就已经自由了。我害怕想起她，在那个可怕的地方附近的荒野上。我们有马，我们沿着跑道走。我在戈达尔明准备的时候注意到了这一点。我们有我们的手臂。斯加尼人必须小心他们是否打算战斗。哦，要是莫里斯和苏厄德和我们在一起就好了。我们只能希望！如果我不再写了再见米娜！愿上帝保佑并保守你。

DR. SEWARD’S DIARY
博士。苏厄德的日记

5 November.—With the dawn we saw the body of Szgany before us dashing away from the river with their leiter wagon. They surrounded it in a cluster, and hurried along as though beset. The snow is falling lightly and there is a strange excitement in the air. It may be our own feelings, but the depression is strange. Far off I hear the howling of wolves. The snow brings them down from the mountains, and there are dangers to all of us, and from all sides. The horses are nearly ready, and we are soon off. We ride to death of some one. God alone knows who, or where, or what, or when, or how it may be …
11 月 5 日——黎明时分，我们看到 Szgany 的尸体正驾着他们的莱特马车从河边冲走。他们把它围成一团，像被围困一样匆匆前行。雪花轻轻飘落，空气中弥漫着一种奇怪的兴奋感。这可能是我们自己的感受，但抑郁很奇怪。远处传来狼嚎声。大雪把他们从山上带下来，我们所有人都面临着来自四面八方的危险。马匹已经准备好了，我们很快就出发了。我们骑着马去死某个人。只有上帝知道谁、在哪里、什么、什么时候、或者如何……

DR. VAN HELSING’S MEMORANDUM
博士。范海辛的备忘录

5 November, afternoon.—I am at least sane. Thank God for that mercy at all events, though the proving it has been dreadful. When I left Madam Mina sleeping within the Holy circle, I took my way to the castle. The blacksmith hammer which I took in the carriage from Veresti was useful, though the doors were all open I broke them off the rusty hinges, lest some ill intent or ill chance should close them, so that being entered I might not get out. Jonathan’s bitter experience served me here. By memory of his diary I found my way to the old chapel, for I knew that here my work lay. The air was oppressive. It seemed as if there was some sulphurous fume, which at times made me dizzy. Either there was a roaring in my ears or I heard afar off the howl of wolves. Then I bethought me of my dear Madam Mina, and I was in terrible plight. The dilemma had me between his horns.
11 月 5 日下午。——我至少神志清醒。无论如何，感谢上帝的仁慈，尽管证明它的过程是可怕的。当米娜女士留在圣圈内睡觉时，我就朝城堡走去。我在马车里从维莱斯蒂那里拿来的铁匠锤子很有用，虽然车门全开着，但我还是把它们从生锈的铰链上折断了，以免有恶意或不测的机会把它们关上，这样我进去就可能出不去。乔纳森的痛苦经历让我受益匪浅。凭借着他的日记，我找到了通往老教堂的路，因为我知道我的工作就在这里。空气压抑。似乎有一些硫磺烟雾，有时让我头晕。耳边要么是轰鸣声，要么是远处传来狼嚎声。然后我想起了我亲爱的米娜女士，我陷入了可怕的困境。这种困境让我左右为难。

Her, I had not dare to take into this place, but left safe from the Vampire in that Holy circle. And yet even there would be the wolf! I resolve me that my work lay here, and that as to the wolves we must submit, if it were God’s will. At any rate it was only death and freedom beyond. So did I choose for her. Had it but been for myself the choice had been easy, the maw of the wolf were better to rest in than the grave of the Vampire! So I make my choice to go on with my work.
她，我不敢带进这个地方，只是从那个神圣圈子里的吸血鬼那里安全地离开了。但即便如此，也会有狼！我下定决心，我的工作就在这里，而对于狼，我们必须服从，如果这是上帝的旨意的话。无论如何，只有死亡和自由。我也为她选择了。如果不是我自己的话，选择就很容易了，睡在狼的胃里比睡在吸血鬼的坟墓里更好！所以我决定继续我的工作。

I knew that there were at least three graves to find, graves that are inhabit. So I search, and search, and I find one of them. She lay in her Vampire sleep, so full of life and voluptuous beauty that I shudder as though I have come to do murder. Ah, I doubt not that in the old time, when such things were, many a man who set forth to do such a task as mine, found at the last his heart fail him, and then his nerve. So he delay, and delay, and delay, till the mere beauty and the fascination of the wanton Undead have hypnotize him. And he remain on and on, till sunset come, and the Vampire sleep be over. Then the beautiful eyes of the fair woman open and look love, and the voluptuous mouth present to a kiss, and the man is weak. And there remain one more victim in the Vampire fold. One more to swell the grim and grisly ranks of the Undead! …
我知道至少有三个坟墓可以找到，而且都是有人居住的坟墓。所以我搜索啊搜索，终于找到了其中之一。她躺在吸血鬼的睡眠中，充满生机和性感的美丽，让我不寒而栗，仿佛我是来杀人的。啊，我毫不怀疑，在过去，当这样的事情发生时，许多人开始做像我这样的任务，最后发现他的心失败了，然后是他的勇气。于是他拖延、拖延、拖延，直到放荡的不死生物的美丽和魅力把他催眠了。他继续前行，直到日落来临，吸血鬼的睡眠结束。然后，美丽的女人睁开美丽的眼睛，露出爱意，性感的嘴唇呈现出亲吻的样子，而男人则软弱起来。吸血鬼家族中还剩下一名受害者。又一个让不死族的冷酷可怕的队伍壮大！ ……

There is some fascination, surely, when I am moved by the mere presence of such an one, even lying as she lay in a tomb fretted with age and heavy with the dust of centuries, though there be that horrid odour such as the lairs of the Count have had. Yes, I was moved. I, Van Helsing, with all my purpose and with my motive for hate. I was moved to a yearning for delay which seemed to paralyze my faculties and to clog my very soul. It may have been that the need of natural sleep, and the strange oppression of the air were beginning to overcome me. Certain it was that I was lapsing into sleep, the open eyed sleep of one who yields to a sweet fascination, when there came through the snow stilled air a long, low wail, so full of woe and pity that it woke me like the sound of a clarion. For it was the voice of my dear Madam Mina that I heard.
当然，当我仅仅被这样一个人的存在所感动时，即使她躺在一座因岁月而磨损、积满了几个世纪的灰尘的坟墓里，尽管那里有那种可怕的气味，就像伯爵有过。是的，我很感动。我，范海辛，带着我所有的目的和仇恨的动机。我被一种对拖延的渴望所感动，这似乎麻痹了我的能力，堵塞了我的灵魂。可能是对自然睡眠的需要和空气中奇怪的压迫感开始征服我。可以肯定的是，我正陷入睡眠，睁开眼睛的睡眠，就像一个屈服于甜蜜迷恋的人，这时，从雪地静止的空气中传来一声长长的、低沉的哀号，充满了悲伤和怜悯，它像声音一样把我吵醒了。的号角。因为我听到的是我亲爱的米娜女士的声音。

Then I braced myself again to my horrid task, and found by wrenching away tomb tops one other of the sisters, the other dark one. I dared not pause to look on her as I had on her sister, lest once more I should begin to be enthrall. But I go on searching until, presently, I find in a high great tomb as if made to one much beloved that other fair sister which, like Jonathan I had seen to gather herself out of the atoms of the mist. She was so fair to look on, so radiantly beautiful, so exquisitely voluptuous, that the very instinct of man in me, which calls some of my sex to love and to protect one of hers, made my head whirl with new emotion. But God be thanked, that soul wail of my dear Madam Mina had not died out of my ears. And, before the spell could be wrought further upon me, I had nerved myself to my wild work. By this time I had searched all the tombs in the chapel, so far as I could tell. And as there had been only three of these Undead phantoms around us in the night, I took it that there were no more of active Undead existent. There was one great tomb more lordly than all the rest. Huge it was, and nobly proportioned. On it was but one word.
然后我再次振作起来，开始我可怕的任务，通过扳开墓顶，我发现了另外一个姐妹，另一个黑暗的姐妹。我不敢像看她姐姐那样停下来看她，以免我再次着迷。但我继续寻找，直到不久，我在一座高大的坟墓中发现了另一位美丽的姐妹，就像是为一位深爱的人建造的，就像乔纳森一样，我看到她从雾气的原子中聚集起来。她看起来如此美丽，如此容光焕发，如此精致性感，以至于我内心的男人本能，呼唤我的一些性别去爱和保护她的一个，让我的头脑中充满了新的情感。但感谢上帝，我亲爱的米娜夫人的灵魂哀号还没有从我耳边消失。而且，在咒语进一步作用在我身上之前，我已经鼓起勇气开始我疯狂的工作。到目前为止，据我所知，我已经搜查了教堂里所有的坟墓。而由于夜里我们周围只有三个亡灵幻影，所以我认为已经不再有活跃的亡灵存在了。有一座大坟墓比其他所有坟墓都更加宏伟。它很大，而且比例很高。上面只有一个字。

DRACULA
德古拉

This then was the Undead home of the King Vampire, to whom so many more were due. Its emptiness spoke eloquent to make certain what I knew. Before I began to restore these women to their dead selves through my awful work, I laid in Dracula’s tomb some of the Wafer, and so banished him from it, Undead, for ever.
这就是吸血鬼之王的亡灵之家，还有更多的亡灵归于他。它的空虚雄辩地证明了我所知道的。在我开始通过我可怕的工作让这些女人恢复死亡之前，我在德古拉的坟墓里放了一些薄饼，因此将他永远驱逐出坟墓，不死族。

Then began my terrible task, and I dreaded it. Had it been but one, it had been easy, comparative. But three! To begin twice more after I had been through a deed of horror. For it was terrible with the sweet Miss Lucy, what would it not be with these strange ones who had survived through centuries, and who had been strengthened by the passing of the years. Who would, if they could, have fought for their foul lives …
然后开始了我可怕的任务，我对此感到害怕。如果只是一个，那就很容易了，也很容易比较。但是三个！在我经历了一次恐怖的事情之后，又开始了两次。因为这对可爱的露西小姐来说是可怕的，对这些历经几个世纪幸存下来并随着岁月的流逝而变得更加坚强的奇怪的人来说又会怎样呢？如果可以的话，谁会为自己肮脏的生活而战……

Oh, my friend John, but it was butcher work. Had I not been nerved by thoughts of other dead, and of the living over whom hung such a pall of fear, I could not have gone on. I tremble and tremble even yet, though till all was over, God be thanked, my nerve did stand. Had I not seen the repose in the first place, and the gladness that stole over it just ere the final dissolution came, as realization that the soul had been won, I could not have gone further with my butchery. I could not have endured the horrid screeching as the stake drove home, the plunging of writhing form, and lips of bloody foam. I should have fled in terror and left my work undone. But it is over! And the poor souls, I can pity them now and weep, as I think of them placid each in her full sleep of death for a short moment ere fading. For, friend John, hardly had my knife severed the head of each, before the whole body began to melt away and crumble into its native dust, as though the death that should have come centuries ago had at last assert himself and say at once and loud, ‘I am here!’
哦，我的朋友约翰，但那是屠夫的工作。如果不是想到其他死者和那些笼罩着恐惧的生者，我就无法继续前进。我仍然颤抖不已，尽管在一切结束之前，感谢上帝，我的勇气还挺住了。如果我一开始没有看到那份宁静，以及在最终解体到来之前偷偷掠过的喜悦，意识到灵魂已被赢得，我就不可能在我的屠杀中走得更远。当木桩被击中时，我无法忍受可怕的尖叫声、扭动的身体的坠落和血腥泡沫的嘴唇。我本应该惊恐地逃跑，并留下我的工作。但一切都结束了！而那些可怜的灵魂，我现在可以怜悯他们并哭泣，因为我想到他们每个人都在死亡的熟睡中平静地度过了短暂的时光。因为，朋友约翰，我的刀刚刚割下每个人的头，整个身体就开始融化并碎裂成其原生的灰尘，仿佛本应在几个世纪前到来的死亡终于站出来并立即说：大声说：“我在这里！”

Before I left the castle I so fixed its entrances that never more can the Count enter there Undead.
在我离开城堡之前，我把它的入口修好了，这样伯爵就再也不能进入那里了。

When I stepped into the circle where Madam Mina slept, she woke from her sleep and, seeing me, cried out in pain that I had endured too much.
当我走进米娜女士睡觉的圈子时，她从睡梦中醒来，看到我，痛苦地哭着说我承受了太多。

‘Come!’ she said, ‘come away from this awful place! Let us go to meet my husband who is, I know, coming towards us.’ She was looking thin and pale and weak. But her eyes were pure and glowed with fervour. I was glad to see her paleness and her illness, for my mind was full of the fresh horror of that ruddy vampire sleep.
“来吧！”她说，“离开这个可怕的地方！”我们去见我的丈夫吧，我知道他正在向我们走来。”她看起来瘦弱、苍白、虚弱。但她的眼神却是纯净的，闪烁着热切的光芒。我很高兴看到她的苍白和她的病，因为我的脑海里充满了红润的吸血鬼睡眠的新鲜恐怖。

And so with trust and hope, and yet full of fear, we go eastward to meet our friends, and him, whom Madam Mina tell me that she know are coming to meet us.
于是，带着信任和希望，但又充满恐惧，我们向东去见我们的朋友和他，米娜女士告诉我，她知道他会来见我们。

MINA HARKER’S JOURNAL
米娜·哈克的日记

6 November.—It was late in the afternoon when the Professor and I took our way towards the east whence I knew Jonathan was coming. We did not go fast, though the way was steeply downhill, for we had to take heavy rugs and wraps with us. We dared not face the possibility of being left without warmth in the cold and the snow. We had to take some of our provisions too, for we were in a perfect desolation, and so far as we could see through the snowfall, there was not even the sign of habitation. When we had gone about a mile, I was tired with the heavy walking and sat down to rest. Then we looked back and saw where the clear line of Dracula’s castle cut the sky. For we were so deep under the hill whereon it was set that the angle of perspective of the Carpathian mountains was far below it. We saw it in all its grandeur, perched a thousand feet on the summit of a sheer precipice, and with seemingly a great gap between it and the steep of the adjacent mountain on any side. There was something wild and uncanny about the place. We could hear the distant howling of wolves. They were far off, but the sound, even though coming muffled through the deadening snowfall, was full of terror. I knew from the way Dr. Van Helsing was searching about that he was trying to seek some strategic point, where we would be less exposed in case of attack. The rough roadway still led downwards. We could trace it through the drifted snow.
11 月 6 日——下午晚些时候，我和教授向东走去，我知道乔纳森将从那里来。尽管下坡路很陡，但我们走得并不快，因为我们必须随身携带厚重的地毯和围巾。我们不敢面对在寒冷和大雪中失去温暖的可能性。我们还得带上一些食物，因为我们周围一片荒凉，透过降雪，我们看不到任何有人居住的迹象。当我们走了大约一英里时，我因沉重的步行而感到疲倦，坐下来休息。然后我们回头望去，看到德古拉城堡的清晰线条划破了天空。因为我们位于这座山的深处，喀尔巴阡山脉的视角远远低于它。我们看到了它的宏伟，它坐落在一千英尺高的悬崖顶上，与周围陡峭的山峰之间似乎有很大的差距。这个地方有一种狂野和不可思议的感觉。我们能听到远处传来狼嚎声。虽然距离很远，但声音虽然在死气沉沉的降雪中变得低沉，但仍然充满了恐惧。从范海辛博士搜索的方式中我知道他正在寻找一些战略点，这样我们在受到攻击时就不会暴露在外。崎岖不平的道路仍然向下延伸。我们可以透过飘雪追踪它。

In a little while the Professor signalled to me, so I got up and joined him. He had found a wonderful spot, a sort of natural hollow in a rock, with an entrance like a doorway between two boulders. He took me by the hand and drew me in.
过了一会儿，教授向我示意，我就起身加入了他。他发现了一个奇妙的地方，一种岩石中的天然空洞，入口就像两块巨石之间的门口。他拉着我的手，把我拉了进去。

‘See!’ he said, ‘here you will be in shelter. And if the wolves do come I can meet them one by one.’
“看！”他说，“你会在这里避难。”如果狼真的来了，我可以一一迎接它们。

He brought in our furs, and made a snug nest for me, and got out some provisions and forced them upon me. But I could not eat, to even try to do so was repulsive to me, and much as I would have liked to please him, I could not bring myself to the attempt. He looked very sad, but did not reproach me. Taking his field glasses from the case, he stood on the top of the rock, and began to search the horizon.
他把我们的毛皮拿来，为我搭了一个舒适的窝，又拿出一些食物强行塞给我。但我不能吃东西，甚至尝试这样做对我来说都是令人厌恶的，尽管我很想取悦他，但我无法让自己去尝试。他看上去很伤心，但并没有责备我。他从箱子里取出望远镜，站在岩石顶上，开始寻找地平线。

Suddenly he called out, ‘Look! Madam Mina, look! Look!’
突然他喊道：“看哪！米娜女士，你看！看！'

I sprang up and stood beside him on the rock. He handed me his glasses and pointed. The snow was now falling more heavily, and swirled about fiercely, for a high wind was beginning to blow. However, there were times when there were pauses between the snow flurries and I could see a long way round. From the height where we were it was possible to see a great distance. And far off, beyond the white waste of snow, I could see the river lying like a black ribbon in kinks and curls as it wound its way. Straight in front of us and not far off, in fact so near that I wondered we had not noticed before, came a group of mounted men hurrying along. In the midst of them was a cart, a long leiter wagon which swept from side to side, like a dog’s tail wagging, with each stern inequality of the road. Outlined against the snow as they were, I could see from the men’s clothes that they were peasants or gypsies of some kind.
我跳了起来，站在岩石上，站在他身边。他把眼镜递给我并指着我。雪下得更大了，而且旋转得更猛烈，因为大风开始吹了。然而，有时雪花之间会有停顿，我可以看到很远的地方。从我们所在的高度可以看到很远的地方。远处，在白色的雪地之外，我可以看到河流像一条黑色的丝带，蜿蜒曲折地蜿蜒流过。就在我们正前方不远的地方，实际上是那么近，我怀疑我们之前没有注意到，有一群骑马的人正在急匆匆地走着。他们中间停着一辆马车，一辆长长的莱特马车，像狗摇尾巴一样从一边扫到另一边，道路的每一个严重不平等。从他们的衣服上看，他们的轮廓在雪地的映衬下，我可以看出他们是农民或吉普赛人之类的。

On the cart was a great square chest. My heart leaped as I saw it, for I felt that the end was coming. The evening was now drawing close, and well I knew that at sunset the Thing, which was till then imprisoned there, would take new freedom and could in any of many forms elude pursuit. In fear I turned to the Professor. To my consternation, however, he was not there. An instant later, I saw him below me. Round the rock he had drawn a circle, such as we had found shelter in last night.
推车上有一个方形的大箱子。当我看到它时，我的心狂跳起来，因为我觉得末日即将来临。夜晚已经临近，我很清楚，日落时分，一直被囚禁在那里的那个东西将会获得新的自由，并且可以以多种形式逃避追捕。出于恐惧，我转向教授。然而令我惊愕的是，他并不在那里。过了一会儿，我看到他在我下面。他在岩石周围画了一个圆圈，就像我们昨晚找到的庇护所一样。

When he had completed it he stood beside me again saying, ‘At least you shall be safe here from him!’ He took the glasses from me, and at the next lull of the snow swept the whole space below us. ‘See,’ he said, ‘they come quickly. They are flogging the horses, and galloping as hard as they can.’
当他完成后，他再次站在我旁边说：“至少你在这里不会受到他的伤害！”他从我手中接过眼镜，在下一次雪平静下来时，雪就席卷了我们下面的整个空间。 “看，”他说，“他们来得很快。”他们正在鞭打马匹，并竭尽全力地奔跑。

He paused and went on in a hollow voice, ‘They are racing for the sunset. We may be too late. God’s will be done!’ Down came another blinding rush of driving snow, and the whole landscape was blotted out. It soon passed, however, and once more his glasses were fixed on the plain.
他停顿了一下，用空洞的声音继续说道：“他们正在追逐日落。”我们可能来得太晚了。上帝的旨意得以实现！”又一场令人眼花缭乱的大雪倾盆而下，整个大地都被淹没了。然而，一切很快就过去了，他的眼镜再次固定在平原上。

Then came a sudden cry, ‘Look! Look! Look! See, two horsemen follow fast, coming up from the south. It must be Quincey and John. Take the glass. Look before the snow blots it all out!’ I took it and looked. The two men might be Dr. Seward and Mr. Morris. I knew at all events that neither of them was Jonathan. At the same time I knew that Jonathan was not far off. Looking around I saw on the north side of the coming party two other men, riding at breakneck speed. One of them I knew was Jonathan, and the other I took, of course, to be Lord Godalming. They too, were pursuing the party with the cart. When I told the Professor he shouted in glee like a schoolboy, and after looking intently till a snow fall made sight impossible, he laid his Winchester rifle ready for use against the boulder at the opening of our shelter.
就在这时，突然传来一声叫喊：‘看哪！看！看！看哪，有两个骑兵紧随其后，从南边上来。一定是昆西和约翰。拿玻璃杯。趁着大雪把一切都淹没之前看看吧！”我接过它看了看。这两个人可能是苏厄德博士和莫里斯先生。无论如何，我知道他们都不是乔纳森。同时我知道乔纳森就在不远处。环顾四周，我看到在即将到来的队伍的北侧，另外两个人正在以惊人的速度骑行。我认识的其中一位是乔纳森，另一位我当然认为是戈达尔明勋爵。他们也在推着马车追赶这群人。当我告诉教授时，他像个小学生一样高兴地大喊，然后全神贯注地看着，直到降雪使视线变得不可能，然后他把他的温彻斯特步枪放在我们避难所开口处的巨石上，准备使用。

‘They are all converging,’ he said. ‘When the time comes we shall have gypsies on all sides.’ I got out my revolver ready to hand, for whilst we were speaking the howling of wolves came louder and closer. When the snow storm abated a moment we looked again. It was strange to see the snow falling in such heavy flakes close to us, and beyond, the sun shining more and more brightly as it sank down towards the far mountain tops. Sweeping the glass all around us I could see here and there dots moving singly and in twos and threes and larger numbers. The wolves were gathering for their prey.
“他们都在汇聚，”他说。 “到时候，我们四面八方都会有吉普赛人。”我拿出左轮手枪，准备好，因为当我们说话的时候，狼嚎声越来越大，越来越近。当暴风雪稍稍减弱时，我们又看了看。看到我们附近的雪花如此厚重地飘落下来，感觉很奇怪，而远处的太阳在向远处的山顶下沉时越来越明亮。扫视我们周围的玻璃，我可以看到这里那里的小点在移动，有的单个的，有三三两两的，还有更多的。狼群正在聚集，寻找猎物。

Every instant seemed an age whilst we waited. The wind came now in fierce bursts, and the snow was driven with fury as it swept upon us in circling eddies. At times we could not see an arm’s length before us. But at others, as the hollow sounding wind swept by us, it seemed to clear the air space around us so that we could see afar off. We had of late been so accustomed to watch for sunrise and sunset, that we knew with fair accuracy when it would be. And we knew that before long the sun would set. It was hard to believe that by our watches it was less than an hour that we waited in that rocky shelter before the various bodies began to converge close upon us. The wind came now with fiercer and more bitter sweeps, and more steadily from the north. It seemingly had driven the snow clouds from us, for with only occasional bursts, the snow fell. We could distinguish clearly the individuals of each party, the pursued and the pursuers. Strangely enough those pursued did not seem to realize, or at least to care, that they were pursued. They seemed, however, to hasten with redoubled speed as the sun dropped lower and lower on the mountain tops.
我们等待的每一刻都仿佛过了一个​​世纪。现在狂风猛烈地吹来，雪花猛烈地卷起，形成盘旋的漩涡，向我们席卷而去。有时我们看不到前方一臂长的距离。但在其他地方，当空洞的风从我们身边掠过时，它似乎清除了我们周围的空气空间，让我们可以看到远处。我们最近已经习惯了观看日出和日落，所以我们相当准确地知道什么时候会发生。我们知道不久太阳就会落山。很难相信，根据我们的手表，我们在那个岩石庇护所里等了不到一个小时，各种尸体就开始向我们聚集。现在，风从北方吹来，刮得更猛烈、更刺骨。它似乎把雪云从我们身上赶走了，因为只有偶尔爆发，雪才会落下来。我们可以清楚地区分每一方的个人、被追捕者和被追捕者。奇怪的是，那些被追捕的人似乎并没有意识到，或者至少不关心他们被追捕。然而，当太阳在山顶上落得越来越低时，他们似乎以加倍的速度加速。

Closer and closer they drew. The Professor and I crouched down behind our rock, and held our weapons ready. I could see that he was determined that they should not pass. One and all were quite unaware of our presence.
他们越来越近。教授和我蹲在岩石后面，准备好武器。我看得出来，他坚决不让他们通过。所有人都完全没有意识到我们的存在。

All at once two voices shouted out to ‘Halt!’ One was my Jonathan’s, raised in a high key of passion. The other Mr. Morris’ strong resolute tone of quiet command. The gypsies may not have known the language, but there was no mistaking the tone, in whatever tongue the words were spoken. Instinctively they reined in, and at the instant Lord Godalming and Jonathan dashed up at one side and Dr. Seward and Mr. Morris on the other. The leader of the gypsies, a splendid looking fellow who sat his horse like a centaur, waved them back, and in a fierce voice gave to his companions some word to proceed. They lashed the horses which sprang forward. But the four men raised their Winchester rifles, and in an unmistakable way commanded them to stop. At the same moment Dr. Van Helsing and I rose behind the rock and pointed our weapons at them. Seeing that they were surrounded the men tightened their reins and drew up. The leader turned to them and gave a word at which every man of the gypsy party drew what weapon he carried, knife or pistol, and held himself in readiness to attack. Issue was joined in an instant.
突然有两个声音喊道：“停下来！”其中一个是我的乔纳森的，激情高亢。另一个莫里斯先生语气坚定，语气平静，命令性强。吉普赛人可能不懂这种语言，但无论用什么语言说的话，语气都不会出错。他们本能地勒住了手，立刻，戈达尔明勋爵和乔纳森冲到了一侧，苏厄德博士和莫里斯先生冲到了另一侧。吉普赛人的首领是个英俊的家伙，他像半人马一样骑在马上，挥手示意他们退后，并用凶狠的声音吩咐同伴继续前进。他们鞭打向前跳跃的马匹。但这四个人举起了温彻斯特步枪，明确无误地命令他们停下来。与此同时，范海辛博士和我从岩石后面站起来，用我们的武器指着他们。看到他们被包围了，人们勒紧了缰绳，停了下来。首领转向他们，说了一句话，吉普赛人的每个人都拔出了他携带的武器，刀或手枪，并做好了攻击的准备。问题立即加入。

The leader, with a quick movement of his rein, threw his horse out in front, and pointed first to the sun, now close down on the hill tops, and then to the castle, said something which I did not understand. For answer, all four men of our party threw themselves from their horses and dashed towards the cart. I should have felt terrible fear at seeing Jonathan in such danger, but that the ardor of battle must have been upon me as well as the rest of them. I felt no fear, but only a wild, surging desire to do something. Seeing the quick movement of our parties, the leader of the gypsies gave a command. His men instantly formed round the cart in a sort of undisciplined endeavour, each one shouldering and pushing the other in his eagerness to carry out the order.
领头的缰绳快速一动，把他的马扔到前面，首先指着太阳，现在太阳已经接近山顶，然后指着城堡，说了一些我听不懂的话。为了回答，我们一行四人全部跳下马，冲向马车。看到乔纳森处于如此危险的境地，我应该感到非常恐惧，但我和其他人一定都充满了战斗的热情。我没有感到恐惧，只是有一种想要做某事的狂野而汹涌的渴望。吉普赛人首领看到我方行动迅速，发出了命令。他的手下立即以一种无纪律的方式围在马车周围，每个人都推着对方，急切地执行命令。

In the midst of this I could see that Jonathan on one side of the ring of men, and Quincey on the other, were forcing a way to the cart. It was evident that they were bent on finishing their task before the sun should set. Nothing seemed to stop or even to hinder them. Neither the levelled weapons nor the flashing knives of the gypsies in front, nor the howling of the wolves behind, appeared to even attract their attention. Jonathan’s impetuosity, and the manifest singleness of his purpose, seemed to overawe those in front of him. Instinctively they cowered aside and let him pass. In an instant he had jumped upon the cart, and with a strength which seemed incredible, raised the great box, and flung it over the wheel to the ground. In the meantime, Mr. Morris had had to use force to pass through his side of the ring of Szgany. All the time I had been breathlessly watching Jonathan I had, with the tail of my eye, seen him pressing desperately forward, and had seen the knives of the gypsies flash as he won a way through them, and they cut at him. He had parried with his great bowie knife, and at first I thought that he too had come through in safety. But as he sprang beside Jonathan, who had by now jumped from the cart, I could see that with his left hand he was clutching at his side, and that the blood was spurting through his fingers. He did not delay notwithstanding this, for as Jonathan, with desperate energy, attacked one end of the chest, attempting to prize off the lid with his great Kukri knife, he attacked the other frantically with his bowie. Under the efforts of both men the lid began to yield. The nails drew with a screeching sound, and the top of the box was thrown back.
在这一切之中，我可以看到乔纳森在人群的一侧，昆西在另一侧，正在强行向马车开路。显然，他们一心想在太阳落山之前完成任务。似乎没有什么可以阻止甚至阻碍他们。无论是前面吉普赛人举起的武器，还是闪闪发光的刀，还有后面狼群的嚎叫声，似乎都没有引起他们的注意。乔纳森的鲁莽和他的目的明显单一，似乎让他面前的人感到敬畏。他们本能地躲到一边，让他过去。刹那间，他跳上了马车，用一种令人难以置信的力量，举起了那个大箱子，把它从车轮上扔到了地上。与此同时，莫里斯先生不得不使用武力穿过斯加尼环的他一侧。我一直气喘吁吁地注视着乔纳森，我用眼尾看到他绝望地向前推进，看到吉普赛人的刀在他杀出一条路时闪烁，他们向他砍去。他用他那把巨大的鲍伊刀进行了格挡，起初我以为他也安全地通过了。但当他跳到乔纳森身边时，乔纳森已经从车上跳了下来，我可以看到他的左手抓住了他的身体，鲜血从他的手指中喷涌而出。尽管如此，他还是没有拖延，因为当乔纳森以绝望的能量攻击箱子的一端，试图用他那把巨大的库克里刀撬开盖子时，他用他的鲍伊疯狂地攻击另一端。在两人的努力下，盖子开始屈服。钉子发出刺耳的声音，盒子的顶部被向后掀开。

By this time the gypsies, seeing themselves covered by the Winchesters, and at the mercy of Lord Godalming and Dr. Seward, had given in and made no further resistance. The sun was almost down on the mountain tops, and the shadows of the whole group fell upon the snow. I saw the Count lying within the box upon the earth, some of which the rude falling from the cart had scattered over him. He was deathly pale, just like a waxen image, and the red eyes glared with the horrible vindictive look which I knew so well.
这时，吉普赛人看到自己被温彻斯特人包围，并受到戈达尔明勋爵和苏厄德博士的摆布，已经屈服，不再进行进一步的抵抗。太阳快落山了，一行人的影子落在雪地上。我看到伯爵躺在地上的盒子里，从车上掉下来的一些东西散落在他身上。他脸色惨白，就像一尊蜡像，红色的眼睛里闪烁着我所熟悉的可怕的斗气目光。

As I looked, the eyes saw the sinking sun, and the look of hate in them turned to triumph.
当我看去时，那双眼睛看到了正在下沉的太阳，他们的眼神中的仇恨变成了胜利。

But, on the instant, came the sweep and flash of Jonathan’s great knife. I shrieked as I saw it shear through the throat. Whilst at the same moment Mr. Morris’s bowie knife plunged into the heart.
但就在那一刻，乔纳森的巨刀横扫而过。当我看到它穿过喉咙时我尖叫起来。与此同时，莫里斯先生的鲍伊刀刺入了心脏。

It was like a miracle, but before our very eyes, and almost in the drawing of a breath, the whole body crumbled into dust and passed from our sight.
这就像一个奇迹，但就在我们眼前，几乎是一口气，整个身体就化为灰尘，从我们的视线中消失了。

I shall be glad as long as I live that even in that moment of final dissolution, there was in the face a look of peace, such as I never could have imagined might have rested there.
只要我还活着，我就会很高兴，即使在那最后的消散时刻，脸上也有一种平静的表情，这是我从未想象过的平静的表情。

The Castle of Dracula now stood out against the red sky, and every stone of its broken battlements was articulated against the light of the setting sun.
现在，德古拉城堡在红色天空的衬托下显得格外醒目，破碎的城垛上的每一块石头都在夕阳的照耀下清晰可见。

The gypsies, taking us as in some way the cause of the extraordinary disappearance of the dead man, turned, without a word, and rode away as if for their lives. Those who were unmounted jumped upon the leiter wagon and shouted to the horsemen not to desert them. The wolves, which had withdrawn to a safe distance, followed in their wake, leaving us alone.
吉卜赛人在某种程度上认为我们是死者非凡失踪的原因，他们一言不发地转身骑马走了，仿佛是为了保命。那些下马的人跳上莱特马车，向骑兵大喊不要抛弃他们。狼群已经退到了安全距离，紧随其后，留下了我们。

Mr. Morris, who had sunk to the ground, leaned on his elbow, holding his hand pressed to his side. The blood still gushed through his fingers. I flew to him, for the Holy circle did not now keep me back, so did the two doctors. Jonathan knelt behind him and the wounded man laid back his head on his shoulder. With a sigh he took, with a feeble effort, my hand in that of his own which was unstained.
倒在地上的莫里斯先生靠在胳膊肘上，把手压在身侧。鲜血仍然从他的手指间涌出。我飞向他，因为圣环现在不再阻止我了，两位医生也是如此。乔纳森跪在他身后，受伤的人把头靠在他的肩膀上。他叹了口气，用微弱的力量握住了我的手，握住了他没有沾污的手。

He must have seen the anguish of my heart in my face, for he smiled at me and said, ‘I am only too happy to have been of service! Oh, God!’ he cried suddenly, struggling to a sitting posture and pointing to me. ‘It was worth for this to die! Look! Look!’
他一定从我的脸上看到了我内心的痛苦，因为他对我微笑着说：‘我很高兴能够为你服务！哦，上帝！”他突然喊道，挣扎着坐起身来，指着我。 ‘这个人死了也值了！看！看！'

The sun was now right down upon the mountain top, and the red gleams fell upon my face, so that it was bathed in rosy light. With one impulse the men sank on their knees and a deep and earnest ‘Amen’ broke from all as their eyes followed the pointing of his finger.
此时，太阳已经在山顶上落下，红色的光芒落在我的脸上，沐浴在玫瑰色的光芒中。男人们一冲动跪下，所有人都发出一声深沉而真诚的“阿门”，他们的目光顺着他的手指指向。

The dying man spoke, ‘Now God be thanked that all has not been in vain! See! The snow is not more stainless than her forehead! The curse has passed away!’
临终者说道：“感谢上帝，一切都没有白费！”看！雪并不比她的额头更洁白！诅咒已经消失了！

And, to our bitter grief, with a smile and in silence, he died, a gallant gentleman.
然而，令我们悲痛万分的是，他是一位英勇的绅士，带着微笑、沉默地去世了。

NOTE
笔记

Seven years ago we all went through the flames. And the happiness of some of us since then is, we think, well worth the pain we endured. It is an added joy to Mina and to me that our boy’s birthday is the same day as that on which Quincey Morris died. His mother holds, I know, the secret belief that some of our brave friend’s spirit has passed into him. His bundle of names links all our little band of men together. But we call him Quincey.
七年前，我们都经历过火焰。我们认为，从那时起，我们中的一些人所获得的幸福是值得我们所忍受的痛苦的。我们儿子的生日与昆西·莫里斯去世的同一天，这让米娜和我更加高兴。我知道，他的母亲秘密地相信，我们勇敢的朋友的一些精神已经遗传给了他。他的名字把我们所有的小团体联系在一起。但我们叫他昆西。

In the summer of this year we made a journey to Transylvania, and went over the old ground which was, and is, to us so full of vivid and terrible memories. It was almost impossible to believe that the things which we had seen with our own eyes and heard with our own ears were living truths. Every trace of all that had been was blotted out. The castle stood as before, reared high above a waste of desolation.
今年夏天，我们前往特兰西瓦尼亚，走遍了这片古老的土地，无论过去还是现在，我们都充满了生动而可怕的回忆。几乎无法相信我们亲眼所见、亲耳所闻的事情是活生生的真理。曾经发生过的一切痕迹都被抹掉了。城堡一如既往地矗立在一片荒凉的荒地上。

When we got home we were talking of the old time, which we could all look back on without despair, for Godalming and Seward are both happily married. I took the papers from the safe where they had been ever since our return so long ago. We were struck with the fact, that in all the mass of material of which the record is composed, there is hardly one authentic document. Nothing but a mass of typewriting, except the later notebooks of Mina and Seward and myself, and Van Helsing’s memorandum. We could hardly ask any one, even did we wish to, to accept these as proofs of so wild a story. Van Helsing summed it all up as he said, with our boy on his knee.
当我们回到家时，我们正在谈论过去的时光，我们都可以毫无绝望地回顾过去，因为戈德尔明和苏厄德都幸福地结婚了。我从保险箱里取出这些文件，自从我们很久以前回来以来它们就一直放在那里。令我们震惊的事实是，在构成记录的所有材料中，几乎没有一份真实的文件。除了米娜、苏厄德和我后来的笔记本，以及范海辛的备忘录之外，什么也没有。即使我们愿意，我们也很难要求任何人接受这些作为如此疯狂的故事的证据。范海辛将我们的孩子跪在他的膝盖上，总结了这一切。

‘We want no proofs. We ask none to believe us! This boy will some day know what a brave and gallant woman his mother is. Already he knows her sweetness and loving care. Later on he will understand how some men so loved her, that they did dare much for her sake.’
“我们不需要任何证据。我们不要求任何人相信我们！这个男孩有一天会知道他的母亲是一个多么勇敢和勇敢的女人。他已经知道她的甜蜜和关爱。稍后他就会明白，有些男人是多么爱她，为了她，他们敢于做很多事情。

JONATHAN HARKER
乔纳森·哈克