
The Time Machine
时间机器

By H. G. Wells
作者：H.G.威尔斯

I

The Time Traveller (for so it will be convenient to speak of him) was expounding a recondite matter to us. His grey eyes shone and twinkled, and his usually pale face was flushed and animated. The fire burned brightly, and the soft radiance of the incandescent lights in the lilies of silver caught the bubbles that flashed and passed in our glasses. Our chairs, being his patents, embraced and caressed us rather than submitted to be sat upon, and there was that luxurious after-dinner atmosphere when thought roams gracefully free of the trammels of precision. And he put it to us in this way—marking the points with a lean forefinger—as we sat and lazily admired his earnestness over this new paradox (as we thought it:) and his fecundity.
时间旅行者（这样称呼他比较方便）正在向我们解释一件深奥的事情。他灰色的眼睛闪闪发亮，一向苍白的脸涨得通红，充满活力。火燃烧得很明亮，银色百合花中白炽灯的柔和光芒捕捉到了我们眼镜中闪烁的气泡。我们的椅子是他的专利，拥抱和爱抚我们，而不是让我们坐在上面，当思想优雅地摆脱精确的束缚时，就有一种奢华的餐后氛围。当我们坐下来，懒洋洋地欣赏他对这个新悖论（正如我们所想的：）的认真和他的创造力时，他以这样的方式向我们讲述了这一点——用瘦长的食指标记了要点。

‘You must follow me carefully. I shall have to controvert one or two ideas that are almost universally accepted. The geometry, for instance, they taught you at school is founded on a misconception.’
‘你必须小心地跟着我。我将不得不反驳一两个几乎被普遍接受的观点。例如，他们在学校教给你的几何学就是建立在一个误解的基础上的。

‘Is not that rather a large thing to expect us to begin upon?’ said Filby, an argumentative person with red hair.
“这不是我们要开始做的一件大事吗？”菲尔比说，他是一个好争论的红发人。

‘I do not mean to ask you to accept anything without reasonable ground for it. You will soon admit as much as I need from you. You know of course that a mathematical line, a line of thickness NIL, has no real existence. They taught you that? Neither has a mathematical plane. These things are mere abstractions.’
“我并不是要你接受任何没有合理理由的事情。你很快就会承认我需要你提供的一切。你当然知道一条数学线，一条粗细为零的线，并不真实存在。他们教你的？两者都没有数学平面。这些东西只是抽象的。

‘That is all right,’ said the Psychologist.
“没关系，”心理学家说。

‘Nor, having only length, breadth, and thickness, can a cube have a real existence.’
“立方体也不能只有长、宽、厚，才能真正存在。”

‘There I object,’ said Filby. ‘Of course a solid body may exist. All real things—‘
“我反对，”菲尔比说。 “当然可能存在固体。所有真实的事物——’

‘So most people think. But wait a moment. Can an INSTANTANEOUS cube exist?’
'大多数人都是这么想的。但等一下。瞬时立方体可以存在吗？

‘Don’t follow you,’ said Filby.
“别跟着你，”菲尔比说。

‘Can a cube that does not last for any time at all, have a real existence?’
“一个根本不存在任何时间的立方体可以有真实的存在吗？”

Filby became pensive. ‘Clearly,’ the Time Traveller proceeded, ‘any real body must have extension in FOUR directions: it must have Length, Breadth, Thickness, and—Duration. But through a natural infirmity of the flesh, which I will explain to you in a moment, we incline to overlook this fact. There are really four dimensions, three which we call the three planes of Space, and a fourth, Time. There is, however, a tendency to draw an unreal distinction between the former three dimensions and the latter, because it happens that our consciousness moves intermittently in one direction along the latter from the beginning to the end of our lives.’
菲尔比陷入沉思。 “显然，”时间旅行者继续说道，“任何实体都必须在四个方向上延伸：它必须有长度、宽度、厚度和——持续时间。但由于肉体的自然弱点（我稍后将向您解释），我们倾向于忽视这一事实。实际上有四个维度，其中三个维度我们称为空间的三个平面，第四个维度称为时间。然而，人们倾向于在前三个维度和后者之间做出不真实的区分，因为从我们生命的开始到结束，我们的意识恰好沿着后者间歇性地朝一个方向移动。

‘That,’ said a very young man, making spasmodic efforts to relight his cigar over the lamp; ‘that … very clear indeed.’
“那个，”一个非常年轻的男人说道，一边断断续续地努力在灯上重新点燃雪茄。 “那……确实非常清楚。”

‘Now, it is very remarkable that this is so extensively overlooked,’ continued the Time Traveller, with a slight accession of cheerfulness. ‘Really this is what is meant by the Fourth Dimension, though some people who talk about the Fourth Dimension do not know they mean it. It is only another way of looking at Time. THERE IS NO DIFFERENCE BETWEEN TIME AND ANY OF THE THREE DIMENSIONS OF SPACE EXCEPT THAT OUR CONSCIOUSNESS MOVES ALONG IT. But some foolish people have got hold of the wrong side of that idea. You have all heard what they have to say about this Fourth Dimension?’
“现在，非常值得注意的是，这一点被如此广泛地忽视了，”时间旅行者继续说道，带着一丝高兴。 “确实，这就是第四维度的含义，尽管有些谈论第四维度的人并不知道他们的意思。这只是看待时间的另一种方式。时间和空间三个维度之间没有任何区别，除了我们的意识沿着它移动。但一些愚蠢的人却错误地理解了这个想法。你们都听过他们对第四维度的评价吗？

‘I have not,’ said the Provincial Mayor.
“我没有，”省长说。

‘It is simply this. That Space, as our mathematicians have it, is spoken of as having three dimensions, which one may call Length, Breadth, and Thickness, and is always definable by reference to three planes, each at right angles to the others. But some philosophical people have been asking why THREE dimensions particularly—why not another direction at right angles to the other three?—and have even tried to construct a Four-Dimension geometry. Professor Simon Newcomb was expounding this to the New York Mathematical Society only a month or so ago. You know how on a flat surface, which has only two dimensions, we can represent a figure of a three-dimensional solid, and similarly they think that by models of thee dimensions they could represent one of four—if they could master the perspective of the thing. See?’
‘简单来说就是这个。正如我们的数学家所说，该空间被认为具有三个维度，可以称为长度、宽度和厚度，并且总是可以通过参考三个平面来定义，每个平面都与其他平面成直角。但一些哲学家一直在问为什么特别是三个维度——为什么不是与其他三个维度成直角的另一个方向？——甚至试图构建一个四维几何。大约一个月前，西蒙·纽科姆教授还在纽约数学会上阐述了这一点。你知道如何在只有二维的平面上，我们可以表示三维立体的图形，同样，他们认为通过三个维度的模型，他们可以表示四个维度之一——如果他们能够掌握三维立体的视角事情。看？'

‘I think so,’ murmured the Provincial Mayor; and, knitting his brows, he lapsed into an introspective state, his lips moving as one who repeats mystic words. ‘Yes, I think I see it now,’ he said after some time, brightening in a quite transitory manner.
“我想是的，”省长低声说道。他皱起了眉头，陷入了一种内省的状态，他的嘴唇蠕动着，就像在重复着神秘的话语。 “是的，我想我现在明白了。”过了一会儿，他说道，神情短暂地变得明亮起来。

‘Well, I do not mind telling you I have been at work upon this geometry of Four Dimensions for some time. Some of my results are curious. For instance, here is a portrait of a man at eight years old, another at fifteen, another at seventeen, another at twenty-three, and so on. All these are evidently sections, as it were, Three-Dimensional representations of his Four-Dimensioned being, which is a fixed and unalterable thing.
“好吧，我不介意告诉你，我研究四维几何学已经有一段时间了。我的一些结果很奇怪。例如，这是一个八岁男人的肖像，另一个十五岁的男人，另一个十七岁的男人，另一个二十三岁的男人，依此类推。所有这些显然都是他的四维存在的三维表征，四维存在是固定的、不可改变的。

‘Scientific people,’ proceeded the Time Traveller, after the pause required for the proper assimilation of this, ‘know very well that Time is only a kind of Space. Here is a popular scientific diagram, a weather record. This line I trace with my finger shows the movement of the barometer. Yesterday it was so high, yesterday night it fell, then this morning it rose again, and so gently upward to here. Surely the mercury did not trace this line in any of the dimensions of Space generally recognized? But certainly it traced such a line, and that line, therefore, we must conclude was along the Time-Dimension.’
“科学家们，”时间旅行者在适当理解这一点所需的停顿之后继续说道，“非常清楚时间只是空间的一种。”这是一个流行的科学图表，一个天气记录。我用手指画出的这条线显示了气压计的运动。昨天它那么高，昨天晚上它下跌了，然后今天早上它又上升了，就这样轻轻地上升到这里。水银肯定没有在任何公认的空间维度上追踪这条线吗？但它确实追踪了这样一条线，因此，我们必须得出结论，这条线是沿着时间维度的。

‘But,’ said the Medical Man, staring hard at a coal in the fire, ‘if Time is really only a fourth dimension of Space, why is it, and why has it always been, regarded as something different? And why cannot we move in Time as we move about in the other dimensions of Space?’
“但是，”医生凝视着火中的煤炭说道，“如果时间真的只是空间的第四个维度，为什么它而且一直被视为不同的东西？为什么我们不能像在空间的其他维度中移动一样在时间中移动呢？

The Time Traveller smiled. ‘Are you sure we can move freely in Space? Right and left we can go, backward and forward freely enough, and men always have done so. I admit we move freely in two dimensions. But how about up and down? Gravitation limits us there.’
时间旅行者微笑着。 ‘你确定我们可以在太空中自由移动吗？我们可以自由地左右走动、前后移动，而人们总是这样做的。我承认我们在二维空间中自由移动。但上、下又如何呢？重力将我们限制在那里。

‘Not exactly,’ said the Medical Man. ‘There are balloons.’
“不完全是，”医生说。 “有气球。”

‘But before the balloons, save for spasmodic jumping and the inequalities of the surface, man had no freedom of vertical movement.’‘Still they could move a little up and down,’ said the Medical Man.
“但是在气球出现之前，除了痉挛性的跳跃和表面的不平等之外，人类没有垂直运动的自由。”“他们仍然可以上下移动一点，”医生说。

‘Easier, far easier down than up.’
“下山比上山容易得多。”

‘And you cannot move at all in Time, you cannot get away from the present moment.’
“你根本无法在时间中移动，你无法摆脱当下。”

‘My dear sir, that is just where you are wrong. That is just where the whole world has gone wrong. We are always getting away from the present movement. Our mental existences, which are immaterial and have no dimensions, are passing along the Time-Dimension with a uniform velocity from the cradle to the grave. Just as we should travel DOWN if we began our existence fifty miles above the earth’s surface.’
“亲爱的先生，这就是你错的地方。这正是整个世界出了问题的地方。我们总是远离当前的运动。我们的精神存在是非物质的、没有维度的，它们沿着时间维度以均匀的速度从摇篮到坟墓。就像如果我们在距地球表面五十英里的地方开始存在，我们就应该向下航行一样。

‘But the great difficulty is this,’ interrupted the Psychologist. ‘You CAN move about in all directions of Space, but you cannot move about in Time.’
“但最大的困难就在于此，”心理学家打断道。 “你可以在空间的各个方向移动，但你不能在时间中移动。”

‘That is the germ of my great discovery. But you are wrong to say that we cannot move about in Time. For instance, if I am recalling an incident very vividly I go back to the instant of its occurrence: I become absent-minded, as you say. I jump back for a moment. Of course we have no means of staying back for any length of Time, any more than a savage or an animal has of staying six feet above the ground. But a civilized man is better off than the savage in this respect. He can go up against gravitation in a balloon, and why should he not hope that ultimately he may be able to stop or accelerate his drift along the Time-Dimension, or even turn about and travel the other way?’
‘这就是我伟大发现的萌芽。但你说我们不能在时间中移动是错误的。例如，如果我非常生动地回忆起一件事情，我就会回到它发生的那一刻：正如你所说，我变得心不在焉。我向后跳了一会儿。当然，我们没有办法在后面停留任何时间，就像野蛮人或动物没有办法在离地六英尺的地方停留一样。但在这方面，文明人比野蛮人要好。他可以在气球中克服重力，为什么他不希望最终他能够停止或加速他沿着时间维度的漂移，甚至转身朝另一个方向旅行呢？

‘Oh, THIS,’ began Filby, ‘is all—‘
“噢，这个，”菲尔比开始说道，“就是——”

‘Why not?’ said the Time Traveller.
“为什么不呢？”时间旅行者说。

‘It’s against reason,’ said Filby.
“这是违反理性的，”菲尔比说。

‘What reason?’ said the Time Traveller.
“什么原因？”时间旅行者问道。

‘You can show black is white by argument,’ said Filby, ‘but you will never convince me.’
“你可以通过论证证明黑就是白，”菲尔比说，“但你永远无法说服我。”

‘Possibly not,’ said the Time Traveller. ‘But now you begin to see the object of my investigations into the geometry of Four Dimensions. Long ago I had a vague inkling of a machine—‘
“可能不是，”时间旅行者说。 “但是现在你开始明白我研究四维几何的目的了。很久以前我对机器有过模糊的了解——”

‘To travel through Time!’ exclaimed the Very Young Man.
“穿越时空！”年轻人惊呼道。

‘That shall travel indifferently in any direction of Space and Time, as the driver determines.’
“按照驾驶员的决定，它将在时空的任何方向上无差别地行驶。”

Filby contented himself with laughter.
菲尔比满足地笑了。

‘But I have experimental verification,’ said the Time Traveller.
“但我有实验验证。”时间旅行者说道。

‘It would be remarkably convenient for the historian,’ the Psychologist suggested. ‘One might travel back and verify the accepted account of the Battle of Hastings, for instance!’
“这对历史学家来说非常方便，”心理学家建议道。 “例如，人们可能会回去验证黑斯廷斯战役的公认记录！”

‘Don’t you think you would attract attention?’ said the Medical Man. ‘Our ancestors had no great tolerance for anachronisms.’
“你不认为你会引起注意吗？”医生说。 “我们的祖先对不合时宜的事物没有太大的容忍度。”

‘One might get one’s Greek from the very lips of Homer and Plato,’ the Very Young Man thought.
“一个人可能会从荷马和柏拉图的嘴里学到希腊语，”年轻人想。

‘In which case they would certainly plough you for the Little-go. The German scholars have improved Greek so much.’
“在这种情况下，他们肯定会为小家伙而犁你。”德国学者已经将希腊语提高了很多。

‘Then there is the future,’ said the Very Young Man. ‘Just think! One might invest all one’s money, leave it to accumulate at interest, and hurry on ahead!’
“那就有未来了，”非常年轻人说道。 '想一想！一个人可能会投入所有的钱，让它积累利息，然后赶紧前进！

‘To discover a society,’ said I, ‘erected on a strictly communistic basis.’
“发现一个社会，”我说，“建立在严格的共产主义基础上。”

‘Of all the wild extravagant theories!’ began the Psychologist.
“所有疯狂的夸张理论！”心理学家开始说道。

‘Yes, so it seemed to me, and so I never talked of it until—‘
“是的，我觉得是这样，所以我从来没有谈论过它，直到——”

‘Experimental verification!’ cried I. ‘You are going to verify THAT?’
“实验验证！”我喊道，“你要验证这一点吗？”

‘The experiment!’ cried Filby, who was getting brain-weary.
“实验！”菲尔比喊道，他的大脑已经有些疲倦了。

‘Let’s see your experiment anyhow,’ said the Psychologist, ‘though it’s all humbug, you know.’
“无论如何，让我们看看你的实验，”心理学家说，“尽管这都是骗人的，你知道。”

The Time Traveller smiled round at us. Then, still smiling faintly, and with his hands deep in his trousers pockets, he walked slowly out of the room, and we heard his slippers shuffling down the long passage to his laboratory.
时间旅行者对我们微笑。然后，他仍然微笑着，双手深深地插在裤兜里，慢慢地走出房间，我们听到他的拖鞋拖着脚步沿着长长的通道走向他的实验室。

The Psychologist looked at us. ‘I wonder what he’s got?’
心理学家看着我们。 “我想知道他有什么？”

‘Some sleight-of-hand trick or other,’ said the Medical Man, and Filby tried to tell us about a conjurer he had seen at Burslem; but before he had finished his preface the Time Traveller came back, and Filby’s anecdote collapsed.
“某种花招或其他的，”医生说，菲尔比试图告诉我们他在布尔斯勒姆见过的一个魔术师的事。但在他完成序言之前，时间旅行者回来了，菲尔比的轶事崩溃了。

The thing the Time Traveller held in his hand was a glittering metallic framework, scarcely larger than a small clock, and very delicately made. There was ivory in it, and some transparent crystalline substance. And now I must be explicit, for this that follows—unless his explanation is to be accepted—is an absolutely unaccountable thing. He took one of the small octagonal tables that were scattered about the room, and set it in front of the fire, with two legs on the hearthrug. On this table he placed the mechanism. Then he drew up a chair, and sat down. The only other object on the table was a small shaded lamp, the bright light of which fell upon the model. There were also perhaps a dozen candles about, two in brass candlesticks upon the mantel and several in sconces, so that the room was brilliantly illuminated. I sat in a low arm-chair nearest the fire, and I drew this forward so as to be almost between the Time Traveller and the fireplace. Filby sat behind him, looking over his shoulder. The Medical Man and the Provincial Mayor watched him in profile from the right, the Psychologist from the left. The Very Young Man stood behind the Psychologist. We were all on the alert. It appears incredible to me that any kind of trick, however subtly conceived and however adroitly done, could have been played upon us under these conditions.
时间旅行者手里拿着的是一个闪闪发光的金属框架，比一个小钟大不了多少，而且做工非常精致。里面有象牙，还有一些透明的晶体物质。现在我必须明确指出，因为接下来的事情——除非他的解释被接受——是一件绝对无法解释的事情。他拿起房间里散落的一张八角形小桌，把它放在火前，两条腿放在炉边地毯上。他把这个装置放在这张桌子上。然后他拉过一把椅子，坐了下来。桌子上唯一的其他物体是一盏带灯罩的小灯，明亮的光线照在模特身上。周围大约还有十几支蜡烛，两支放在壁炉架上的黄铜烛台上，还有几支放在壁灯座上，所以房间被照亮了。我坐在离火最近的一把矮扶手椅上，把椅子向前拉，几乎位于时间旅行者和壁炉之间。菲尔比坐在他身后，越过他的肩膀往外看。医生和省长从右边侧视着他，心理学家从左边侧视着他。非常年轻的男子站在心理学家身后。我们都保持警惕。在我看来，令人难以置信的是，在这种情况下，任何一种诡计，无论构思多么巧妙，做得多么巧妙，都可能对我们起作用。

The Time Traveller looked at us, and then at the mechanism. ‘Well?’ said the Psychologist.
时间旅行者看看我们，然后看看机械装置。 “怎么样？”心理学家说。

‘This little affair,’ said the Time Traveller, resting his elbows upon the table and pressing his hands together above the apparatus, ‘is only a model. It is my plan for a machine to travel through time. You will notice that it looks singularly askew, and that there is an odd twinkling appearance about this bar, as though it was in some way unreal.’ He pointed to the part with his finger. ‘Also, here is one little white lever, and here is another.’
“这个小东西，”时间旅行者说，他把胳膊肘撑在桌子上，双手合十放在仪器上方，“只是一个模型。”我的计划是让机器能够穿越时空。你会注意到它看起来非常歪斜，而且这个酒吧有一种奇怪的闪烁外观，就好像它在某种程度上不真实一样。”他用手指指着那个部分。 “还有，这是一个白色的小杠杆，这是另一个。”

The Medical Man got up out of his chair and peered into the thing. ‘It’s beautifully made,’ he said.
医生从椅子上站起来，凝视着那东西。 “制作精美，”他说。

‘It took two years to make,’ retorted the Time Traveller. Then, when we had all imitated the action of the Medical Man, he said: ‘Now I want you clearly to understand that this lever, being pressed over, sends the machine gliding into the future, and this other reverses the motion. This saddle represents the seat of a time traveller. Presently I am going to press the lever, and off the machine will go. It will vanish, pass into future Time, and disappear. Have a good look at the thing. Look at the table too, and satisfy yourselves there is no trickery. I don’t want to waste this model, and then be told I’m a quack.’
“制作花了两年时间，”时间旅行者反驳道。然后，当我们都模仿了医生的动作时，他说：“现在我想让你们清楚地明白，这个杠杆，被压下去，会让机器滑向未来，而另一个杠杆则逆转运动。”这个马鞍代表了时间旅行者的座位。现在我要按下控制杆，机器就会关闭。它会消失，进入未来的时间，然后消失。好好看看这件事。你也看看表，确认一下没有什么诡计。我不想浪费这个模型，然后被告知我是个庸医。”

There was a minute’s pause perhaps. The Psychologist seemed about to speak to me, but changed his mind. Then the Time Traveller put forth his finger towards the lever. ‘No,’ he said suddenly. ‘Lend me your hand.’ And turning to the Psychologist, he took that individual’s hand in his own and told him to put out his forefinger. So that it was the Psychologist himself who sent forth the model Time Machine on its interminable voyage. We all saw the lever turn. I am absolutely certain there was no trickery. There was a breath of wind, and the lamp flame jumped. One of the candles on the mantel was blown out, and the little machine suddenly swung round, became indistinct, was seen as a ghost for a second perhaps, as an eddy of faintly glittering brass and ivory; and it was gone—vanished! Save for the lamp the table was bare.
也许有一分钟的停顿。心理学家似乎想跟我说话，但后来改变了主意。然后时间旅行者将手指伸向控制杆。 “不，”他突然说道。 “把你的手借给我。”然后转向心理学家，他握住那个人的手，让他伸出食指。因此，正是心理学家本人将时间机器模型送上了无尽的航程。我们都看到杠杆转动了。我绝对确定没有任何诡计。一阵风吹过，灯火跳动。壁炉架上的一根蜡烛被吹灭了，那台小机器突然旋转起来，变得模糊不清，一瞬间被视为幽灵，就像一个微弱闪光的黄铜和象牙的漩涡；然后它就消失了——消失了！除了台灯，桌子上空无一物。

Everyone was silent for a minute. Then Filby said he was damned.
大家都沉默了一分钟。然后菲尔比说他该死。

The Psychologist recovered from his stupor, and suddenly looked under the table. At that the Time Traveller laughed cheerfully. ‘Well?’ he said, with a reminiscence of the Psychologist. Then, getting up, he went to the tobacco jar on the mantel, and with his back to us began to fill his pipe.
心理学家从恍惚中回过神来，突然看向桌子底下。时间旅行者闻言哈哈大笑。 “嗯？”他说道，语气中充满了对心理学家的回忆。然后，他站起来，走向壁炉架上的烟草罐，背对着我们开始给他的烟斗装满烟斗。

We stared at each other. ‘Look here,’ said the Medical Man, ‘are you in earnest about this? Do you seriously believe that that machine has travelled into time?’
我们面面相觑。 “看这里，”医生说，“你是认真的吗？你真的相信那台机器已经穿越到了时间里吗？

‘Certainly,’ said the Time Traveller, stooping to light a spill at the fire. Then he turned, lighting his pipe, to look at the Psychologist’s face. (The Psychologist, to show that he was not unhinged, helped himself to a cigar and tried to light it uncut.) ‘What is more, I have a big machine nearly finished in there’—he indicated the laboratory—‘and when that is put together I mean to have a journey on my own account.’
“当然，”时间旅行者说着，弯下腰去点燃火堆。然后他转过身来，点着烟斗，看着心理学家的脸。 （为了表明他没有精神错乱，心理学家给自己拿了一支雪茄，并试图将其点燃。）“更重要的是，我那里有一台即将完成的大机器”——他指着实验室——“当那放在一起，我的意思是要以我自己的名义进行一次旅行。

‘You mean to say that that machine has travelled into the future?’ said Filby.
“你的意思是说那台机器已经穿越到了未来？”菲尔比说道。

‘Into the future or the past—I don’t, for certain, know which.’
“未来还是过去——我当然不知道是哪一个。”

After an interval the Psychologist had an inspiration. ‘It must have gone into the past if it has gone anywhere,’ he said.
过了一会儿，心理学家有了灵感。他说：“如果它去了任何地方，它一定已经成为过去了。”

‘Why?’ said the Time Traveller.
“为什么？”时间旅行者问道。

‘Because I presume that it has not moved in space, and if it travelled into the future it would still be here all this time, since it must have travelled through this time.’
“因为我推测它没有在太空中移动，如果它穿越到未来，它仍然会一直在这里，因为它一定穿越了这一次。”

‘But,’ I said, ‘If it travelled into the past it would have been visible when we came first into this room; and last Thursday when we were here; and the Thursday before that; and so forth!’
“但是，”我说，“如果它穿越到了过去，当我们第一次进入这个房间时，它就会被看见；上周四我们在这里的时候；以及之前的星期四；等等！

‘Serious objections,’ remarked the Provincial Mayor, with an air of impartiality, turning towards the Time Traveller.
“严重反对。”省长转向时间旅行者，一脸不偏不倚地说道。

‘Not a bit,’ said the Time Traveller, and, to the Psychologist: ‘You think. You can explain that. It’s presentation below the threshold, you know, diluted presentation.’
“一点也不，”时间旅行者说，然后对心理学家说：“你想。”你可以解释一下。它的表现低于阈值，你知道，稀释的表现。

‘Of course,’ said the Psychologist, and reassured us. ‘That’s a simple point of psychology. I should have thought of it. It’s plain enough, and helps the paradox delightfully. We cannot see it, nor can we appreciate this machine, any more than we can the spoke of a wheel spinning, or a bullet flying through the air. If it is travelling through time fifty times or a hundred times faster than we are, if it gets through a minute while we get through a second, the impression it creates will of course be only one-fiftieth or one-hundredth of what it would make if it were not travelling in time. That’s plain enough.’ He passed his hand through the space in which the machine had been. ‘You see?’ he said, laughing.
“当然，”心理学家说，并向我们保证。 “这是一个简单的心理学观点。我应该想到的。这很简单，并且令人愉快地帮助解决了这个悖论。我们看不到它，也无法欣赏这台机器，就像我们无法欣赏旋转的轮子的辐条或空中飞过的子弹一样。如果它穿越时间的速度比我们快五十倍、一百倍，如果它经过一分钟，而我们却经过一秒，那么它给人的印象当然只是它的五十分之一或百分之一。如果它没有及时旅行的话。这很简单。”他把手伸进了机器原来所在的空间。 “你明白了吗？”他笑着说道。

We sat and stared at the vacant table for a minute or so. Then the Time Traveller asked us what we thought of it all.
我们坐下来，盯着空桌子看了大约一分钟。然后时间旅行者问我们对这一切有何看法。

‘It sounds plausible enough to-night,’ said the Medical Man; ‘but wait until to-morrow. Wait for the common sense of the morning.’
“今晚听起来很合理，”医生说。 “但是等到明天吧。”等待早上的常识。

‘Would you like to see the Time Machine itself?’ asked the Time Traveller. And therewith, taking the lamp in his hand, he led the way down the long, draughty corridor to his laboratory. I remember vividly the flickering light, his queer, broad head in silhouette, the dance of the shadows, how we all followed him, puzzled but incredulous, and how there in the laboratory we beheld a larger edition of the little mechanism which we had seen vanish from before our eyes. Parts were of nickel, parts of ivory, parts had certainly been filed or sawn out of rock crystal. The thing was generally complete, but the twisted crystalline bars lay unfinished upon the bench beside some sheets of drawings, and I took one up for a better look at it. Quartz it seemed to be.
“你想看看时间机器本身吗？”时间旅行者问道。说完，他手里拿着灯，沿着通风良好的长走廊，来到了他的实验室。我清楚地记得闪烁的灯光，他那奇怪而宽阔的头部轮廓，阴影的舞蹈，我们如何跟随他，困惑但难以置信，以及在实验室里我们如何看到我们所见过的小机械的放大版本从我们眼前消失。部分是镍的，部分是象牙的，部分肯定是用水晶锉或锯出来的。东西基本上已经完成了，但是扭曲的水晶棒还没有完成，放在长凳上，旁边还有几张图纸，我拿起一张以便更好地观察它。看起来是石英的。

‘Look here,’ said the Medical Man, ‘are you perfectly serious? Or is this a trick—like that ghost you showed us last Christmas?’
“看这里，”医生说，“你是认真的吗？或者这是一个把戏——就像你去年圣诞节给我们展示的那个鬼魂一样？

‘Upon that machine,’ said the Time Traveller, holding the lamp aloft, ‘I intend to explore time. Is that plain? I was never more serious in my life.’
“在那台机器上，”时间旅行者高举着灯说道，“我打算探索时间。这很简单吗？我一生中从未如此认真过。”

None of us quite knew how to take it.
我们谁都不知道如何接受它。

I caught Filby’s eye over the shoulder of the Medical Man, and he winked at me solemnly.
我越过医务人员的肩膀看到了菲尔比的目光，他严肃地对我眨了眨眼睛。

II

I think that at that time none of us quite believed in the Time Machine. The fact is, the Time Traveller was one of those men who are too clever to be believed: you never felt that you saw all round him; you always suspected some subtle reserve, some ingenuity in ambush, behind his lucid frankness. Had Filby shown the model and explained the matter in the Time Traveller’s words, we should have shown HIM far less scepticism. For we should have perceived his motives; a pork butcher could understand Filby. But the Time Traveller had more than a touch of whim among his elements, and we distrusted him. Things that would have made the frame of a less clever man seemed tricks in his hands. It is a mistake to do things too easily. The serious people who took him seriously never felt quite sure of his deportment; they were somehow aware that trusting their reputations for judgment with him was like furnishing a nursery with egg-shell china. So I don’t think any of us said very much about time travelling in the interval between that Thursday and the next, though its odd potentialities ran, no doubt, in most of our minds: its plausibility, that is, its practical incredibleness, the curious possibilities of anachronism and of utter confusion it suggested. For my own part, I was particularly preoccupied with the trick of the model. That I remember discussing with the Medical Man, whom I met on Friday at the Linnaean. He said he had seen a similar thing at Tubingen, and laid considerable stress on the blowing out of the candle. But how the trick was done he could not explain.
我想当时我们都不太相信时间机器。事实上，时间旅行者是那些聪明得令人难以置信的人之一：你从来没有觉得你看到了他周围的一切;你总是怀疑在他清醒的坦率背后有某种微妙的保留，某种埋伏的聪明才智。如果菲尔比展示了模型并用时间旅行者的话解释了此事，我们应该向他表现出更少的怀疑。因为我们应该明白他的动机；猪肉屠夫可以理解菲尔比。但时间旅行者的元素中不乏一些突发奇想，我们不信任他。对于一个不那么聪明的人来说，那些本来会显得身材矮小的东西，在他手里却成了诡计。做事太容易是错误的。那些认真对待他的人从来都不太确定他的举止。他们不知何故意识到，信任他的判断力声誉就像为托儿所配备蛋壳瓷器一样。因此，我认为我们中的任何人都没有对那个星期四和下一个星期四之间的时间旅行说太多，尽管毫无疑问，它奇怪的潜力在我们大多数人的脑海中运行：它的合理性，即它的实际难以置信性，它暗示着不合时宜和完全混乱的奇怪可能性。就我个人而言，我特别关注模型的技巧。我记得我和星期五在林奈医院见到的医生讨论过这个问题。他说他在图宾根也看到过类似的事情，并对蜡烛的吹灭给予了很大的重视。但他无法解释这个戏法是如何完成的。

The next Thursday I went again to Richmond—I suppose I was one of the Time Traveller’s most constant guests—and, arriving late, found four or five men already assembled in his drawing-room. The Medical Man was standing before the fire with a sheet of paper in one hand and his watch in the other. I looked round for the Time Traveller, and—‘It’s half-past seven now,’ said the Medical Man. ‘I suppose we’d better have dinner?’
下周四，我再次前往里士满——我想我是时间旅行者最常来的客人之一——到达较晚，发现四五个人已经聚集在他的客厅里。医生站在火边，一手拿着一张纸，另一只手拿着手表。我环顾四周寻找时间旅行者，然后——“现在已经七点半了，”医生说。 “我想我们最好吃晚饭吧？”

‘Where’s——?’ said I, naming our host.
“哪里——？”我说道，并指出了我们的主人的名字。

‘You’ve just come? It’s rather odd. He’s unavoidably detained. He asks me in this note to lead off with dinner at seven if he’s not back. Says he’ll explain when he comes.’
‘你才来啊？这很奇怪。他不可避免地被拘留了。他在这张便条中要求我如果他没有回来的话，就在七点开始吃晚饭。说他来时会解释。

‘It seems a pity to let the dinner spoil,’ said the Editor of a well-known daily paper; and thereupon the Doctor rang the bell.
一家知名日报的编辑说：“让这顿晚餐变质似乎很可惜。”于是医生按响了门铃。

The Psychologist was the only person besides the Doctor and myself who had attended the previous dinner. The other men were Blank, the Editor aforementioned, a certain journalist, and another—a quiet, shy man with a beard—whom I didn’t know, and who, as far as my observation went, never opened his mouth all the evening. There was some speculation at the dinner-table about the Time Traveller’s absence, and I suggested time travelling, in a half-jocular spirit. The Editor wanted that explained to him, and the Psychologist volunteered a wooden account of the ‘ingenious paradox and trick’ we had witnessed that day week. He was in the midst of his exposition when the door from the corridor opened slowly and without noise. I was facing the door, and saw it first. ‘Hallo!’ I said. ‘At last!’ And the door opened wider, and the Time Traveller stood before us. I gave a cry of surprise. ‘Good heavens! man, what’s the matter?’ cried the Medical Man, who saw him next. And the whole tableful turned towards the door.
心理学家是除了医生和我之外唯一参加过上一次晚餐的人。其他人是前面提到的编辑布兰克、一位记者和另一位——一个安静、害羞、留着胡子的男人——我不认识他，据我观察，他整个晚上都没有张开嘴。 。餐桌上有人猜测时间旅行者的缺席，我半开玩笑地建议时间旅行。编辑希望向他解释这一点，心理学家自愿提供了一份木讷的叙述，讲述了我们那天目睹的“巧妙的悖论和诡计”。当他正在阐述时，走廊的门缓缓地无声无息地打开了。我正对着门，首先看到了它。 “你好！”我说。 “终于！”门开得更大了，时间旅行者站在我们面前。我惊讶地叫了一声。 '我的妈呀！ “伙计，怎么了？”接下来看到他的医生喊道。整桌人都转向门口。

He was in an amazing plight. His coat was dusty and dirty, and smeared with green down the sleeves; his hair disordered, and as it seemed to me greyer—either with dust and dirt or because its colour had actually faded. His face was ghastly pale; his chin had a brown cut on it—a cut half healed; his expression was haggard and drawn, as by intense suffering. For a moment he hesitated in the doorway, as if he had been dazzled by the light. Then he came into the room. He walked with just such a limp as I have seen in footsore tramps. We stared at him in silence, expecting him to speak.
他陷入了惊人的困境。他的外套满是灰尘，脏兮兮的，袖子上沾满了绿色。他的头发凌乱，而且在我看来更加灰白——要么是沾满了灰尘，要么是因为它的颜色实际上已经褪色了。他的脸色惨白。他的下巴上有一道棕色的伤口——伤口已经愈合了一半。他的表情憔悴而憔悴，仿佛遭受了剧烈的痛苦。他在门口犹豫了一会儿，仿佛被灯光弄得眼花缭乱。然后他走进了房间。他走路一瘸一拐，就像我在脚痛的流浪汉中看到的那样。我们默默地看着他，等待他说话。

He said not a word, but came painfully to the table, and made a motion towards the wine. The Editor filled a glass of champagne, and pushed it towards him. He drained it, and it seemed to do him good: for he looked round the table, and the ghost of his old smile flickered across his face. ‘What on earth have you been up to, man?’ said the Doctor. The Time Traveller did not seem to hear. ‘Don’t let me disturb you,’ he said, with a certain faltering articulation. ‘I’m all right.’ He stopped, held out his glass for more, and took it off at a draught. ‘That’s good,’ he said. His eyes grew brighter, and a faint colour came into his cheeks. His glance flickered over our faces with a certain dull approval, and then went round the warm and comfortable room. Then he spoke again, still as it were feeling his way among his words. ‘I’m going to wash and dress, and then I’ll come down and explain things… Save me some of that mutton. I’m starving for a bit of meat.’
他一言不发，只是痛苦地走到桌边，朝酒做了个手势。编辑倒了一杯香槟，推向他。他把它喝干了，这似乎对他有好处：因为他环顾桌子，脸上闪现出他昔日微笑的影子。 “你到底在做什么，伙计？”博士说。时间旅行者似乎没有听到。 “别让我打扰你，”他说道，声音有些结结巴巴。 “我没事。”他停了下来，伸出杯子又要了一杯，然后一下子就把它摘了下来。 “那很好，”他说。他的双眸变得更加明亮，脸颊上也浮现出淡淡的颜色。他的目光带着某种沉闷的赞许在我们脸上闪烁，然后环视着温暖舒适的房间。然后他又开口了，语气依然在摸索。 “我要洗漱穿衣，然后下来解释事情……给我留点羊肉。”我很想吃点肉。

He looked across at the Editor, who was a rare visitor, and hoped he was all right. The Editor began a question. ‘Tell you presently,’ said the Time Traveller. ‘I’m—funny! Be all right in a minute.’
他看了一眼对面的编辑，他是一位难得来访的人，希望他没事。编辑开始提问。 “现在就告诉你，”时间旅行者说道。 '我很搞笑！一会儿就好了。

He put down his glass, and walked towards the staircase door. Again I remarked his lameness and the soft padding sound of his footfall, and standing up in my place, I saw his feet as he went out. He had nothing on them but a pair of tattered blood-stained socks. Then the door closed upon him. I had half a mind to follow, till I remembered how he detested any fuss about himself. For a minute, perhaps, my mind was wool-gathering. Then, ‘Remarkable Behaviour of an Eminent Scientist,’ I heard the Editor say, thinking (after his wont) in headlines. And this brought my attention back to the bright dinner-table.
他放下酒杯，朝楼梯门走去。我再次注意到他的跛行和脚步声轻柔的声音，然后我站在我的位置上，看到他走出去时的脚。他身上除了一双沾满血迹的破烂袜子之外什么都没有。然后门在他面前关上了。我有点犹豫不决，直到我想起他是多么讨厌对自己大惊小怪。也许有一分钟，我的脑子里胡思乱想。然后，我听到编辑在头条新闻中（按照他的习惯）说道，“一位杰出科学家的非凡行为”。这让我的注意力又回到了明亮的餐桌上。

‘What’s the game?’ said the Journalist. ‘Has he been doing the Amateur Cadger? I don’t follow.’ I met the eye of the Psychologist, and read my own interpretation in his face. I thought of the Time Traveller limping painfully upstairs. I don’t think any one else had noticed his lameness.
“比赛是什么？”记者问道。 “他参加过业余球探比赛吗？我不明白。”我与心理学家的目光相遇，从他的脸上读出了我自己的解释。我想起时间旅行者痛苦地一瘸一拐地上楼。我想没有人注意到他的跛行。

The first to recover completely from this surprise was the Medical Man, who rang the bell—the Time Traveller hated to have servants waiting at dinner—for a hot plate. At that the Editor turned to his knife and fork with a grunt, and the Silent Man followed suit. The dinner was resumed. Conversation was exclamatory for a little while, with gaps of wonderment; and then the Editor got fervent in his curiosity. ‘Does our friend eke out his modest income with a crossing? or has he his Nebuchadnezzar phases?’ he inquired. ‘I feel assured it’s this business of the Time Machine,’ I said, and took up the Psychologist’s account of our previous meeting. The new guests were frankly incredulous. The Editor raised objections. ‘What WAS this time travelling? A man couldn’t cover himself with dust by rolling in a paradox, could he?’ And then, as the idea came home to him, he resorted to caricature. Hadn’t they any clothes-brushes in the Future? The Journalist too, would not believe at any price, and joined the Editor in the easy work of heaping ridicule on the whole thing. They were both the new kind of journalist—very joyous, irreverent young men. ‘Our Special Correspondent in the Day after To-morrow reports,’ the Journalist was saying—or rather shouting—when the Time Traveller came back. He was dressed in ordinary evening clothes, and nothing save his haggard look remained of the change that had startled me.
第一个从这种惊讶中完全恢复过来的是医生，他按响了门铃——时间旅行者讨厌让仆人在晚餐时等待——要一盘热菜。这时，编辑咕哝了一声，转身拿起刀叉，沉默者也跟着转了过去。晚餐继续进行。谈话中有一阵子充满了感叹，间或充满了惊奇。然后编辑的好奇心变得强烈起来。 “我们的朋友靠渡口维持微薄的收入吗？”或者他有尼布甲尼撒阶段吗？”他问道。 “我确信这是时间机器的事，”我说，然后继续心理学家对我们上次会面的描述。新客人们坦率地表示难以置信。编辑提出了反对意见。 ‘这次旅行是什么？一个人不可能在悖论中打滚，让自己蒙上灰尘，不是吗？”然后，当他意识到这个想法时，他诉诸了漫画。未来他们没有衣刷吗？记者也无论如何都不会相信，并与编辑一起轻松地嘲笑整件事。他们都是新型记者——非常快乐、不敬的年轻人。当时间旅行者回来时，记者正在说——或者更确切地说是喊叫——“我们的后天特派记者报道。”他穿着普通的晚礼服，除了那副憔悴的面容之外，没有任何让我吃惊的变化。

‘I say,’ said the Editor hilariously, ‘these chaps here say you have been travelling into the middle of next week! Tell us all about little Rosebery, will you? What will you take for the lot?’
“我说，”编辑搞笑地说，“这里的这些人说你要到下周中旬去旅行！”告诉我们关于小罗斯伯里的一切，好吗？你会拿什么来换取这块土地？

The Time Traveller came to the place reserved for him without a word. He smiled quietly, in his old way. ‘Where’s my mutton?’ he said. ‘What a treat it is to stick a fork into meat again!’
时间旅行者一言不发地来到了为他预留的地方。他以他一贯的方式静静地微笑着。 “我的羊肉呢？”他说。 “再次将叉子插入肉中真是一种享受！”

‘Story!’ cried the Editor.
“故事！”编辑喊道。

‘Story be damned!’ said the Time Traveller. ‘I want something to eat. I won’t say a word until I get some peptone into my arteries. Thanks. And the salt.’
“见鬼的故事！”时间旅行者说道。 ‘我想吃点东西。在将一些蛋白胨注入我的动脉之前我不会说话。谢谢。还有盐。’

‘One word,’ said I. ‘Have you been time travelling?’
“一句话，”我说，“你经历过时间旅行吗？”

‘Yes,’ said the Time Traveller, with his mouth full, nodding his head.
“是的，”时间旅行者嘴里塞满了东西，点点头说道。

‘I’d give a shilling a line for a verbatim note,’ said the Editor. The Time Traveller pushed his glass towards the Silent Man and rang it with his fingernail; at which the Silent Man, who had been staring at his face, started convulsively, and poured him wine. The rest of the dinner was uncomfortable. For my own part, sudden questions kept on rising to my lips, and I dare say it was the same with the others. The Journalist tried to relieve the tension by telling anecdotes of Hettie Potter. The Time Traveller devoted his attention to his dinner, and displayed the appetite of a tramp. The Medical Man smoked a cigarette, and watched the Time Traveller through his eyelashes. The Silent Man seemed even more clumsy than usual, and drank champagne with regularity and determination out of sheer nervousness. At last the Time Traveller pushed his plate away, and looked round us. ‘I suppose I must apologize,’ he said. ‘I was simply starving. I’ve had a most amazing time.’ He reached out his hand for a cigar, and cut the end. ‘But come into the smoking-room. It’s too long a story to tell over greasy plates.’ And ringing the bell in passing, he led the way into the adjoining room.
“我愿意花一先令换取逐字记录，”编辑说。时间旅行者将玻璃杯推向沉默者，并用指甲敲了敲。一直盯着他脸的沉默者突然抽搐起来，给他倒了酒。剩下的晚餐就很不舒服。就我个人而言，突然的问题不断地出现在我的嘴边，我敢说其他人也是如此。记者试图通过讲述海蒂·波特的轶事来缓解紧张气氛。时间旅行者全神贯注地吃晚饭，表现出流浪汉的胃口。医生抽着烟，透过睫毛看着时间旅行者。沉默者看起来比平时更加​​笨拙，纯粹出于紧张而有规律地、坚决地喝着香槟。最后，时间旅行者推开盘子，环顾我们四周。 “我想我必须道歉，”他说。 “我只是饿坏了。我度过了一段非常美妙的时光。”他伸出手去拿一支雪茄，剪掉了烟头。 “但是请到吸烟室来。这个故事太长了，不适合在油腻的盘子上讲述。”他顺便按响了门铃，带路走进了隔壁的房间。

‘You have told Blank, and Dash, and Chose about the machine?’ he said to me, leaning back in his easy-chair and naming the three new guests.
“你已经告诉过布兰克、达什和乔斯关于机器的事了吗？”他对我说，靠在安乐椅上，说出了三位新客人的名字。

‘But the thing’s a mere paradox,’ said the Editor.
“但这只是一个悖论，”编辑说。

‘I can’t argue to-night. I don’t mind telling you the story, but I can’t argue. I will,’ he went on, ‘tell you the story of what has happened to me, if you like, but you must refrain from interruptions. I want to tell it. Badly. Most of it will sound like lying. So be it! It’s true—every word of it, all the same. I was in my laboratory at four o’clock, and since then … I’ve lived eight days … such days as no human being ever lived before! I’m nearly worn out, but I shan’t sleep till I’ve told this thing over to you. Then I shall go to bed. But no interruptions! Is it agreed?’
“今晚我不能争论。我不介意告诉你这个故事，但我无法争论。 “如果你愿意的话，”他继续说道，“我会告诉你发生在我身上的故事，但你必须避免打断。我想告诉它。糟糕的是。其中大部分听起来像是在撒谎。就这样吧！这是真的——每一个字都一样。四点钟我在实验室里，从那时起……我已经度过了八天……人类从未经历过这样的日子！我已经快累坏了，但在把这件事告诉你之前我是不会睡觉的。然后我就去睡觉了。但没有打扰！同意了吗？

‘Agreed,’ said the Editor, and the rest of us echoed ‘Agreed.’ And with that the Time Traveller began his story as I have set it forth. He sat back in his chair at first, and spoke like a weary man. Afterwards he got more animated. In writing it down I feel with only too much keenness the inadequacy of pen and ink —and, above all, my own inadequacy—to express its quality. You read, I will suppose, attentively enough; but you cannot see the speaker’s white, sincere face in the bright circle of the little lamp, nor hear the intonation of his voice. You cannot know how his expression followed the turns of his story! Most of us hearers were in shadow, for the candles in the smoking-room had not been lighted, and only the face of the Journalist and the legs of the Silent Man from the knees downward were illuminated. At first we glanced now and again at each other. After a time we ceased to do that, and looked only at the Time Traveller’s face.
“同意。”编辑说，我们其他人也附和道“同意。”就这样，时间旅行者开始了他的故事，正如我所阐述的那样。他首先坐回椅子上，像一个疲惫的人一样说话。后来他变得更加活跃了。在写下它的过程中，我非常敏锐地感觉到笔墨的不足——尤其是我自己的不足——无法表达它的品质。我想，你读得足够仔细；但在明亮的小灯圈里，你看不到说话者那张苍白、真诚的脸，也听不到他说话的语调。你无法知道他的表情是如何随着故事的发展而变化的！我们大多数听众都处于阴影之中，因为吸烟室里的蜡烛还没有点燃，只有记者的脸和沉默者膝盖以下的腿被照亮。起初我们时不时地对视一眼。过了一段时间，我们不再这样做，只看着时间旅行者的脸。

III
三、

‘I told some of you last Thursday of the principles of the Time Machine, and showed you the actual thing itself, incomplete in the workshop. There it is now, a little travel-worn, truly; and one of the ivory bars is cracked, and a brass rail bent; but the rest of it’s sound enough. I expected to finish it on Friday, but on Friday, when the putting together was nearly done, I found that one of the nickel bars was exactly one inch too short, and this I had to get remade; so that the thing was not complete until this morning. It was at ten o’clock to-day that the first of all Time Machines began its career. I gave it a last tap, tried all the screws again, put one more drop of oil on the quartz rod, and sat myself in the saddle. I suppose a suicide who holds a pistol to his skull feels much the same wonder at what will come next as I felt then. I took the starting lever in one hand and the stopping one in the other, pressed the first, and almost immediately the second. I seemed to reel; I felt a nightmare sensation of falling; and, looking round, I saw the laboratory exactly as before. Had anything happened? For a moment I suspected that my intellect had tricked me. Then I noted the clock. A moment before, as it seemed, it had stood at a minute or so past ten; now it was nearly half-past three!
“上周四我向你们中的一些人讲述了时间机器的原理，并向你们展示了实际的东西本身，在研讨会上尚未完成。现在它就在那里，确实有点旅行的疲惫；其中一根象牙棒破裂了，一根黄铜栏杆弯曲了；但其余部分已经足够了。我本来打算在周五完成它，但是到了周五，当组装快要完成时，我发现其中一根镍棒正好短了一英寸，我必须重新制作它；以至于事情直到今天早上才完成。今天十点，第一台时间机器开始了它的职业生涯。我最后敲了一下，再次尝试所有螺丝，在石英棒上再滴一滴油，然后坐在马鞍上。我想，一个用手枪指着头骨的自杀者对接下来会发生什么感到同样的好奇，就像我当时的感受一样。我一手握住启动杆，另一只手握住停止杆，按下第一个，几乎立即按下第二个。我似乎感到晕眩；我有一种噩梦般的坠落感；我环顾四周，发现实验室和以前一模一样。发生什么事了吗？有那么一刻，我怀疑我的理智欺骗了我。然后我注意到时钟。就在前一刻，时间似乎还停留在十点过一分左右。现在已经快三点半了！

‘I drew a breath, set my teeth, gripped the starting lever with both hands, and went off with a thud. The laboratory got hazy and went dark. Mrs. Watchett came in and walked, apparently without seeing me, towards the garden door. I suppose it took her a minute or so to traverse the place, but to me she seemed to shoot across the room like a rocket. I pressed the lever over to its extreme position. The night came like the turning out of a lamp, and in another moment came to-morrow. The laboratory grew faint and hazy, then fainter and ever fainter. To-morrow night came black, then day again, night again, day again, faster and faster still. An eddying murmur filled my ears, and a strange, dumb confusedness descended on my mind.
“我吸了一口气，咬紧牙关，双手抓住启动杆，轰隆隆地出发了。实验室变得朦胧，一片漆黑。沃基特太太进来了，朝花园门口走去，显然没有看到我。我想她花了一分钟左右才穿过这个地方，但对我来说，她似乎像火箭一样穿过房间。我将控制杆按到了极限位置。夜晚就像灯灭一样来临，转眼间明天就来临了。实验室变得昏暗、朦胧，然后越来越暗。明天黑夜来临，然后又是白天，又是黑夜，又是白天，速度越来越快。我的耳朵里充满了漩涡般的低语，一种奇怪的、无声的混乱降临在我的脑海里。

‘I am afraid I cannot convey the peculiar sensations of time travelling. They are excessively unpleasant. There is a feeling exactly like that one has upon a switchback—of a helpless headlong motion! I felt the same horrible anticipation, too, of an imminent smash. As I put on pace, night followed day like the flapping of a black wing. The dim suggestion of the laboratory seemed presently to fall away from me, and I saw the sun hopping swiftly across the sky, leaping it every minute, and every minute marking a day. I supposed the laboratory had been destroyed and I had come into the open air. I had a dim impression of scaffolding, but I was already going too fast to be conscious of any moving things. The slowest snail that ever crawled dashed by too fast for me. The twinkling succession of darkness and light was excessively painful to the eye. Then, in the intermittent darknesses, I saw the moon spinning swiftly through her quarters from new to full, and had a faint glimpse of the circling stars. Presently, as I went on, still gaining velocity, the palpitation of night and day merged into one continuous greyness; the sky took on a wonderful deepness of blue, a splendid luminous color like that of early twilight; the jerking sun became a streak of fire, a brilliant arch, in space; the moon a fainter fluctuating band; and I could see nothing of the stars, save now and then a brighter circle flickering in the blue.
“恐怕我无法表达时间旅行的奇特感觉。他们太令人不愉快了。有一种与之字形转弯时的感觉一模一样的感觉——一种无助的急速前进！我也有同样可怕的预感，即将发生粉碎。当我加快步伐时，黑夜就像黑色的翅膀拍打着一样，随之而来的是白天。实验室的昏暗暗示似乎很快就从我身上消失了，我看到太阳在天空中快速跳跃，每一分钟都在跳跃，每一分钟都标志着一天。我猜想实验室已经被毁了，我已经来到了露天。我对脚手架的印象很模糊，但我已经走得太快了，意识不到任何移动的东西。有史以来爬得最慢的蜗牛对我来说跑得太快了。黑暗与光明的交替闪烁让眼睛感到极度疼痛。然后，在断断续续的黑暗中，我看到月亮在她的住处快速旋转，从新月变成满月，隐约看到了旋转的星星。不久，当我继续加快速度时，白天和黑夜的悸动融合成一片连续的灰色；天空呈现出一种奇妙的深蓝色，一种灿烂明亮的颜色，就像黎明的颜色。晃动的太阳在太空中变成了一道火光，一道明亮的拱门。月亮是一条较微弱的波动带；我什么也看不见，除了时不时有一个更明亮的圆圈在蓝色中闪烁。

‘The landscape was misty and vague. I was still on the hill-side upon which this house now stands, and the shoulder rose above me grey and dim. I saw trees growing and changing like puffs of vapour, now brown, now green; they grew, spread, shivered, and passed away. I saw huge buildings rise up faint and fair, and pass like dreams. The whole surface of the earth seemed changed—melting and flowing under my eyes. The little hands upon the dials that registered my speed raced round faster and faster. Presently I noted that the sun belt swayed up and down, from solstice to solstice, in a minute or less, and that consequently my pace was over a year a minute; and minute by minute the white snow flashed across the world, and vanished, and was followed by the bright, brief green of spring.
'风景朦胧而模糊。我还在山坡上，这座房子现在就矗立在山坡上，山肩在我上方升起，灰色而暗淡。我看到树木像一阵阵蒸汽一样生长和变化，时而棕色，时而绿色；它们生长、蔓延、颤抖，然后死去。我看到巨大的建筑隐约而美丽地拔地而起，又如梦境一般消逝。整个地球表面似乎都发生了变化——在我的眼前融化、流动。表盘上记录我速度的小指针跑得越来越快。不久，我注意到太阳带在一分钟或更短的时间内从一个至日到另一个至日上下摆动，因此我的步速超过一分钟一年；白色的雪花一分钟一分钟地闪过世界，然后消失，随之而来的是春天明亮而短暂的绿色。

‘The unpleasant sensations of the start were less poignant now. They merged at last into a kind of hysterical exhilaration. I remarked indeed a clumsy swaying of the machine, for which I was unable to account. But my mind was too confused to attend to it, so with a kind of madness growing upon me, I flung myself into futurity. At first I scarce thought of stopping, scarce thought of anything but these new sensations. But presently a fresh series of impressions grew up in my mind—a certain curiosity and therewith a certain dread—until at last they took complete possession of me. What strange developments of humanity, what wonderful advances upon our rudimentary civilization, I thought, might not appear when I came to look nearly into the dim elusive world that raced and fluctuated before my eyes! I saw great and splendid architecture rising about me, more massive than any buildings of our own time, and yet, as it seemed, built of glimmer and mist. I saw a richer green flow up the hill-side, and remain there, without any wintry intermission. Even through the veil of my confusion the earth seemed very fair. And so my mind came round to the business of stopping,
“一开始的不愉快感觉现在不再那么令人心酸了。他们最终陷入了一种歇斯底里的兴奋之中。我注意到机器确实笨拙地摇晃，但我无法解释原因。但我的头脑太混乱了，无法关注它，因此，随着一种疯狂的情绪在我身上滋长，我把自己抛向了未来。起初我几乎没有想过要停下来，除了这些新的感觉之外几乎没有想到任何事情。但不久之后，一系列新的印象在我的脑海中涌现——一种好奇，随之而来的一种恐惧——直到最后它们完全占据了我。我想，当我近距离观察眼前这个瞬息万变、难以捉摸的世界时，人类多么奇怪的发展，我们原始文明的多么奇妙的进步，可能都不会出现！我看到伟大而辉煌的建筑在我周围拔地而起，比我们这个时代的任何建筑都要庞大，但看起来却是由微光和薄雾建造的。我看到更浓郁的绿色沿着山坡流淌，一直留在那里，没有任何冬季的间歇。即使透过我困惑的面纱，地球也显得非常公平。于是我的心思转向了停下来的事情，

‘The peculiar risk lay in the possibility of my finding some substance in the space which I, or the machine, occupied. So long as I travelled at a high velocity through time, this scarcely mattered; I was, so to speak, attenuated—was slipping like a vapour through the interstices of intervening substances! But to come to a stop involved the jamming of myself, molecule by molecule, into whatever lay in my way; meant bringing my atoms into such intimate contact with those of the obstacle that a profound chemical reaction—possibly a far-reaching explosion —would result, and blow myself and my apparatus out of all possible dimensions—into the Unknown. This possibility had occurred to me again and again while I was making the machine; but then I had cheerfully accepted it as an unavoidable risk— one of the risks a man has got to take! Now the risk was inevitable, I no longer saw it in the same cheerful light. The fact is that insensibly, the absolute strangeness of everything, the sickly jarring and swaying of the machine, above all, the feeling of prolonged falling, had absolutely upset my nerve. I told myself that I could never stop, and with a gust of petulance I resolved to stop forthwith. Like an impatient fool, I lugged over the lever, and incontinently the thing went reeling over, and I was flung headlong through the air.
“特殊的风险在于我有可能在我或机器所占据的空间中找到某种物质。只要我在时间中高速旅行，这就不重要了；可以这么说，我被削弱了——像蒸气一样滑过中间物质的间隙！但要停下来，我就要将自己逐个分子地塞进任何挡在我路上的东西；意味着让我的原子与障碍物的原子如此紧密地接触，从而产生深刻的化学反应——可能是影响深远的爆炸——并将我和我的装置从所有可能的维度炸到未知。当我制造机器时，我一次又一次地想到这种可能性。但后来我高兴地接受了它作为一种不可避免的风险——一个人必须承担的风险之一！现在风险是不可避免的，我不再以同样乐观的眼光看待它。事实上，在不知不觉中，一切的绝对陌生，机器令人作呕的震动和摇晃，尤其是长时间坠落的感觉，已经让我的神经彻底不安了。我告诉自己我永远不能停下来，一阵暴躁之后我决定立即停下来。像个不耐烦的傻瓜一样，我用力拉动控制杆，结果失禁的东西开始摇摇欲坠，我被抛到了空中。

‘There was the sound of a clap of thunder in my ears. I may have been stunned for a moment. A pitiless hail was hissing round me, and I was sitting on soft turf in front of the overset machine. Everything still seemed grey, but presently I remarked that the confusion in my ears was gone. I looked round me. I was on what seemed to be a little lawn in a garden, surrounded by rhododendron bushes, and I noticed that their mauve and purple blossoms were dropping in a shower under the beating of the hail-stones. The rebounding, dancing hail hung in a cloud over the machine, and drove along the ground like smoke. In a moment I was wet to the skin. ‘Fine hospitality,’ said I, ‘to a man who has travelled innumerable years to see you.’
‘我的耳边响起了雷鸣般的声音。我可能愣了一下。无情的冰雹在我周围嘶嘶作响，我坐在翻倒的机器前柔软的草坪上。一切看起来仍然是灰色的，但不久我发现我耳朵里的混乱消失了。我环顾四周。我站在花园里的一块小草坪上，周围环绕着杜鹃花丛，我注意到它们的淡紫色和紫色花朵在冰雹的撞击下如阵雨般落下。反弹、舞动的冰雹像云一样悬挂在机器上方，像烟雾一样沿着地面移动。一会儿我的皮肤就湿透了。 “对一个千里迢迢来见你的人来说，真是太好了。”我说。

‘Presently I thought what a fool I was to get wet. I stood up and looked round me. A colossal figure, carved apparently in some white stone, loomed indistinctly beyond the rhododendrons through the hazy downpour. But all else of the world was invisible.
“现在我想我真是个傻瓜，竟然把自己弄湿了。我站起来环顾四周。一个巨大的人物，显然是用白色石头雕刻而成的，在朦胧的倾盆大雨中，在杜鹃花丛中若隐若现。但世界上的其他一切都是看不见的。

‘My sensations would be hard to describe. As the columns of hail grew thinner, I saw the white figure more distinctly. It was very large, for a silver birch-tree touched its shoulder. It was of white marble, in shape something like a winged sphinx, but the wings, instead of being carried vertically at the sides, were spread so that it seemed to hover. The pedestal, it appeared to me, was of bronze, and was thick with verdigris. It chanced that the face was towards me; the sightless eyes seemed to watch me; there was the faint shadow of a smile on the lips. It was greatly weather-worn, and that imparted an unpleasant suggestion of disease. I stood looking at it for a little space—half a minute, perhaps, or half an hour. It seemed to advance and to recede as the hail drove before it denser or thinner. At last I tore my eyes from it for a moment and saw that the hail curtain had worn threadbare, and that the sky was lightening with the promise of the Sun.
“我的感受很难描述。随着冰雹越来越细，我看到那个白色的身影更加清晰。它非常大，因为一棵银色的白桦树靠在它的肩膀上。它是白色大理石制成的，形状有点像带翅膀的狮身人面像，但翅膀不是垂直地放在两侧，而是展开的，看起来像是在悬浮。在我看来，基座是青铜制成的，上面覆盖着厚厚的铜锈。碰巧那张脸正对着我；那双失明的眼睛似乎在注视着我；嘴唇上浮现出淡淡的笑意。它已经饱经风霜，给人一种令人不快的疾病暗示。我站着看了一会儿——也许半分钟，或者半个小时。随着前面冰雹的浓淡，它似乎前进又后退。最后，我把目光从它身上移开了一会儿，看到冰雹的帷幕已经磨损了，天空因太阳的承诺而变得明亮。

‘I looked up again at the crouching white shape, and the full temerity of my voyage came suddenly upon me. What might appear when that hazy curtain was altogether withdrawn? What might not have happened to men? What if cruelty had grown into a common passion? What if in this interval the race had lost its manliness and had developed into something inhuman, unsympathetic, and overwhelmingly powerful? I might seem some old-world savage animal, only the more dreadful and disgusting for our common likeness—a foul creature to be incontinently slain.
“我再次抬头看着那蹲伏的白色身影，我突然意识到这次航行的鲁莽。当那层朦胧的帷幕完全拉开时，会出现什么？有什么事情可能不会发生在男人身上呢？如果残忍已经发展成为一种共同的激情怎么办？如果在这段时间里，人类失去了男子气概，并发展成为一种不人道、缺乏同情心、极其强大的东西，那会怎样呢？我可能看起来像某种旧世界的野蛮动物，只是比我们共同的相似之处更可怕和恶心——一种被不节制地杀死的肮脏生物。

‘Already I saw other vast shapes—huge buildings with intricate parapets and tall columns, with a wooded hill-side dimly creeping in upon me through the lessening storm. I was seized with a panic fear. I turned frantically to the Time Machine, and strove hard to readjust it. As I did so the shafts of the sun smote through the thunderstorm. The grey downpour was swept aside and vanished like the trailing garments of a ghost. Above me, in the intense blue of the summer sky, some faint brown shreds of cloud whirled into nothingness. The great buildings about me stood out clear and distinct, shining with the wet of the thunderstorm, and picked out in white by the unmelted hailstones piled along their courses. I felt naked in a strange world. I felt as perhaps a bird may feel in the clear air, knowing the hawk wings above and will swoop. My fear grew to frenzy. I took a breathing space, set my teeth, and again grappled fiercely, wrist and knee, with the machine. It gave under my desperate onset and turned over. It struck my chin violently. One hand on the saddle, the other on the lever, I stood panting heavily in attitude to mount again.
“我已经看到了其他巨大的形状——巨大的建筑，有着复杂的护墙和高大的柱子，树木繁茂的山坡在逐渐减弱的风暴中隐约地向我逼近。我感到一阵恐慌。我疯狂地转向时间机器，努力重新调整它。当我这么做的时候，阳光穿过雷雨。灰色的倾盆大雨像鬼魂的拖曳衣裳一样被扫到一边消失了。在我头顶上，夏日深蓝色的天空中，一些淡棕色的云朵旋转着消失在虚无之中。我周围的宏伟建筑清晰可见，在雷雨的滋润下闪闪发光，并被沿其路线堆积的未融化的冰雹映衬成白色。我在一个陌生的世界里感到赤身裸体。我的感觉就像一只鸟儿在晴朗的空气中的感觉，知道上方的鹰翅膀会俯冲。我的恐惧变得疯狂。我喘了口气，咬紧牙关，再次用手腕和膝盖猛烈地抓住机器。它在我绝望的攻击下屈服并翻了过来。它猛烈地击中了我的下巴。我一只手放在马鞍上，另一只手放在操纵杆上，气喘吁吁地站着，准备再次上马。

‘But with this recovery of a prompt retreat my courage recovered. I looked more curiously and less fearfully at this world of the remote future. In a circular opening, high up in the wall of the nearer house, I saw a group of figures clad in rich soft robes. They had seen me, and their faces were directed towards me.
“但随着这次迅速撤退，我的勇气又恢复了。我对这个遥远未来的世界更加好奇，不再那么恐惧。在附近房子墙上高处的一个圆形开口里，我看到一群穿着华丽柔软长袍的人影。他们已经看到我了，他们的脸正对着我。

‘Then I heard voices approaching me. Coming through the bushes by the White Sphinx were the heads and shoulders of men running. One of these emerged in a pathway leading straight to the little lawn upon which I stood with my machine. He was a slight creature—perhaps four feet high—clad in a purple tunic, girdled at the waist with a leather belt. Sandals or buskins—I could not clearly distinguish which—were on his feet; his legs were bare to the knees, and his head was bare. Noticing that, I noticed for the first time how warm the air was.
“然后我听到有声音向我靠近。白色狮身人面像旁的灌木丛中，有人奔跑着头和肩膀。其中一个出现在一条小路上，直通我和机器所在的小草坪。他身材瘦小，大概有四英尺高，穿着紫色外衣，腰间系着一条皮带。他脚上穿的是凉鞋或布斯皮鞋——我分不清是哪一种。他的腿到膝盖都光着，头也光着。注意到这一点，我第一次注意到空气是多么温暖。

‘He struck me as being a very beautiful and graceful creature, but indescribably frail. His flushed face reminded me of the more beautiful kind of consumptive—that hectic beauty of which we used to hear so much. At the sight of him I suddenly regained confidence. I took my hands from the machine.
“他给我的印象是一个非常美丽、优雅的生物，但又脆弱得难以形容。他涨红的脸让我想起了一种更美丽的痨病——我们以前经常听到的那种忙碌的美丽。看到他，我突然又恢复了信心。我把手从机器上拿开。

IV

‘In another moment we were standing face to face, I and this fragile thing out of futurity. He came straight up to me and laughed into my eyes. The absence from his bearing of any sign of fear struck me at once. Then he turned to the two others who were following him and spoke to them in a strange and very sweet and liquid tongue.
“在另一个时刻，我们面对面站着，我和这个来自未来的脆弱的东西。他径直走到我面前，对着我的眼睛笑了。他的举止中没有任何恐惧的迹象，这立刻让我震惊。然后他转向跟随他的另外两个人，用一种奇怪的、非常甜美而流利的语言对他们说话。

‘There were others coming, and presently a little group of perhaps eight or ten of these exquisite creatures were about me. One of them addressed me. It came into my head, oddly enough, that my voice was too harsh and deep for them. So I shook my head, and, pointing to my ears, shook it again. He came a step forward, hesitated, and then touched my hand. Then I felt other soft little tentacles upon my back and shoulders. They wanted to make sure I was real. There was nothing in this at all alarming. Indeed, there was something in these pretty little people that inspired confidence—a graceful gentleness, a certain childlike ease. And besides, they looked so frail that I could fancy myself flinging the whole dozen of them about like nine-pins. But I made a sudden motion to warn them when I saw their little pink hands feeling at the Time Machine. Happily then, when it was not too late, I thought of a danger I had hitherto forgotten, and reaching over the bars of the machine I unscrewed the little levers that would set it in motion, and put these in my pocket. Then I turned again to see what I could do in the way of communication.
“还有其他人来了，不久之后，一小群大约有八到十只这样精致的生物就围在我周围。其中一位对我讲话。奇怪的是，我的脑海里浮现出一个想法：我的声音对他们来说太刺耳、太低沉了。于是我摇了摇头，又指着自己的耳朵摇了摇头。他向前走了一步，犹豫了一下，然后碰了碰我的手。然后我感觉到我的背上和肩膀上还有其他柔软的小触手。他们想确定我是真实的。这根本没有什么值得惊慌的。事实上，这些漂亮的小家伙身上有一种激发自信的东西——优雅的温柔，某种孩子般的轻松。此外，它们看起来如此脆弱，我什至可以想象自己把整整十二个它们像九针一样扔来扔去。但当我看到他们粉红色的小手摸着时间机器时，我突然做出了警告他们的动作。幸运的是，当时还不算太晚，我想到了迄今为​​止我已经忘记的危险，我把手伸到机器的杆上，拧开了启动机器的小杠杆，然后把它们放进了口袋里。然后我又转过头来看看我能通过沟通的方式做些什么。

‘And then, looking more nearly into their features, I saw some further peculiarities in their Dresden-china type of prettiness. Their hair, which was uniformly curly, came to a sharp end at the neck and cheek; there was not the faintest suggestion of it on the face, and their ears were singularly minute. The mouths were small, with bright red, rather thin lips, and the little chins ran to a point. The eyes were large and mild; and—this may seem egotism on my part—I fancied even that there was a certain lack of the interest I might have expected in them.
“然后，更仔细地观察他们的特征，我发现他们德累斯顿瓷器类型的漂亮有一些更独特的地方。他们的头发均匀地卷曲，在颈部和脸颊处形成尖角。他们的脸上没有丝毫的迹象，他们的耳朵也特别小。嘴巴很小，鲜红的，薄薄的，小下巴延伸到尖尖的。眼睛又大又温和；而且——这对我来说可能显得自负——我什至认为他们对我所期望的缺乏兴趣。

‘As they made no effort to communicate with me, but simply stood round me smiling and speaking in soft cooing notes to each other, I began the conversation. I pointed to the Time Machine and to myself. Then hesitating for a moment how to express time, I pointed to the sun. At once a quaintly pretty little figure in chequered purple and white followed my gesture, and then astonished me by imitating the sound of thunder.
“他们没有努力与我交流，只是微笑着站在我周围，用轻柔的咕咕声互相交谈，我就开始了谈话。我指着时间机器和我自己。然后犹豫了一下如何表达时间，我指着太阳。立刻，一个穿着紫色和白色格子的奇特漂亮的小人物跟着我的动作，然后模仿雷声，让我感到惊讶。

‘For a moment I was staggered, though the import of his gesture was plain enough. The question had come into my mind abruptly: were these creatures fools? You may hardly understand how it took me. You see I had always anticipated that the people of the year Eight Hundred and Two Thousand odd would be incredibly in front of us in knowledge, art, everything. Then one of them suddenly asked me a question that showed him to be on the intellectual level of one of our five-year-old children— asked me, in fact, if I had come from the sun in a thunderstorm! It let loose the judgment I had suspended upon their clothes, their frail light limbs, and fragile features. A flow of disappointment rushed across my mind. For a moment I felt that I had built the Time Machine in vain.
“有那么一刻，我感到震惊，尽管他的手势的重要性很明显。我突然想到了一个问题：这些生物是傻子吗？你可能很难理解我是如何度过的。你看我一直就预料到当年的八百两千余人在知识、艺术、一切方面都会不可思议地走在我们面前。然后他们中的一个突然问了我一个问题，这表明他的智力水平与我们一个五岁孩子的智力水平相当——事实上，他问我是否是在一场雷雨中从太阳出来的！它释放了我对他们的衣服、他们脆弱的四肢和脆弱的特征的判断。一股失望的情绪涌上心头。有那么一刻，我觉得我徒劳地建造了时间机器。

‘I nodded, pointed to the sun, and gave them such a vivid rendering of a thunderclap as startled them. They all withdrew a pace or so and bowed. Then came one laughing towards me, carrying a chain of beautiful flowers altogether new to me, and put it about my neck. The idea was received with melodious applause; and presently they were all running to and fro for flowers, and laughingly flinging them upon me until I was almost smothered with blossom. You who have never seen the like can scarcely imagine what delicate and wonderful flowers countless years of culture had created. Then someone suggested that their plaything should be exhibited in the nearest building, and so I was led past the sphinx of white marble, which had seemed to watch me all the while with a smile at my astonishment, towards a vast grey edifice of fretted stone. As I went with them the memory of my confident anticipations of a profoundly grave and intellectual posterity came, with irresistible merriment, to my mind.
“我点点头，指着太阳，给他们生动地描绘了一声雷鸣，让他们大吃一惊。他们都后退了一步左右，躬身行礼。然后一个人笑着朝我走来，手里拿着一串对我来说完全陌生的美丽的花，把它挂在我的脖子上。这个想法得到了热烈的掌声。不一会儿，他们就跑来跑去去拿花，笑着把花扔到我身上，直到我几乎被花淹没了。没有见过的人很难想象，无数年的文化孕育出怎样娇艳的花朵。然后有人建议他们的玩具应该在最近的建筑物中展出，于是我被引导经过白色大理石的狮身人面像，它似乎一直在对我的惊讶微笑着看着我，走向一座巨大的灰色回纹石建筑。当我和他们一起去的时候，我的脑海里浮现出我对一个极其严肃和知识分子后代的充满信心的期待，带着不可抗拒的欢乐。

‘The building had a huge entry, and was altogether of colossal dimensions. I was naturally most occupied with the growing crowd of little people, and with the big open portals that yawned before me shadowy and mysterious. My general impression of the world I saw over their heads was a tangled waste of beautiful bushes and flowers, a long neglected and yet weedless garden. I saw a number of tall spikes of strange white flowers, measuring a foot perhaps across the spread of the waxen petals. They grew scattered, as if wild, among the variegated shrubs, but, as I say, I did not examine them closely at this time. The Time Machine was left deserted on the turf among the rhododendrons.
“这座建筑有一个巨大的入口，而且整体尺寸巨大。我自然最感兴趣的是越来越多的小矮人，以及在我面前张开的巨大门户，它们阴暗而神秘。我对他们头顶上看到的世界的总体印象是，美丽的灌木和花朵错综复杂，是一个长期被忽视但没有杂草的花园。我看到许多高高的、奇怪的白色花朵的穗状花序，在蜡制花瓣上的长度大约有一英尺。它们散布在杂色灌木丛中，就像野生的一样，但是，正如我所说，此时我没有仔细检查它们。时间机器被遗弃在杜鹃花丛中的草坪上。

‘The arch of the doorway was richly carved, but naturally I did not observe the carving very narrowly, though I fancied I saw suggestions of old Phoenician decorations as I passed through, and it struck me that they were very badly broken and weatherworn. Several more brightly clad people met me in the doorway, and so we entered, I, dressed in dingy nineteenth-century garments, looking grotesque enough, garlanded with flowers, and surrounded by an eddying mass of bright, soft-colored robes and shining white limbs, in a melodious whirl of laughter and laughing speech.
“门口的拱门雕刻得很丰富，但我自然没有仔细观察雕刻，尽管我觉得我在经过时看到了古老的腓尼基装饰的暗示，而且令我震惊的是，它们非常破损且风化。又有几个衣着鲜艳的人在门口迎接了我，于是我们进去了，我穿着肮脏的十九世纪服装，看起来很怪异，戴着鲜花花环，周围是一大堆明亮、柔和的颜色长袍和闪亮的白色漩涡。四肢，在一阵悠扬的笑声和笑声中。

‘The big doorway opened into a proportionately great hall hung with brown. The roof was in shadow, and the windows, partially glazed with coloured glass and partially unglazed, admitted a tempered light. The floor was made up of huge blocks of some very hard white metal, not plates nor slabs—blocks, and it was so much worn, as I judged by the going to and fro of past generations, as to be deeply channelled along the more frequented ways. Transverse to the length were innumerable tables made of slabs of polished stone, raised perhaps a foot from the floor, and upon these were heaps of fruits. Some I recognized as a kind of hypertrophied raspberry and orange, but for the most part they were strange.
“大门通向一个相当宽敞的大厅，大厅里挂满了棕色的东西。屋顶处于阴影中，窗户部分装有彩色玻璃，部分没有上釉，透进了柔和的光线。地板是由一些非常坚硬的白色金属的巨大块组成的，不是板材也不是厚板——块，而且它是如此磨损，正如我根据过去几代人的来回判断，已经深深地沿着更多的通道形成了。常去的方式。横向有无数的抛光石板制成的桌子，距离地板大约一英尺，上面放着成堆的水果。有些我认出是一种肥大的覆盆子和橙子，但大部分都很奇怪。

‘Between the tables was scattered a great number of cushions. Upon these my conductors seated themselves, signing for me to do likewise. With a pretty absence of ceremony they began to eat the fruit with their hands, flinging peel and stalks, and so forth, into the round openings in the sides of the tables. I was not loath to follow their example, for I felt thirsty and hungry. As I did so I surveyed the hall at my leisure.
“桌子之间散落着大量的垫子。我的列车员在这些座位上坐下，示意我也这样做。他们毫无仪式感地开始用手吃水果，将果皮和果梗等扔进桌子两侧的圆形开口中。我并不不愿意效仿他们，因为我感到又渴又饿。当我这么做的时候，我闲暇时环顾了大厅。

‘And perhaps the thing that struck me most was its dilapidated look. The stained-glass windows, which displayed only a geometrical pattern, were broken in many places, and the curtains that hung across the lower end were thick with dust. And it caught my eye that the corner of the marble table near me was fractured. Nevertheless, the general effect was extremely rich and picturesque. There were, perhaps, a couple of hundred people dining in the hall, and most of them, seated as near to me as they could come, were watching me with interest, their little eyes shining over the fruit they were eating. All were clad in the same soft and yet strong, silky material.
“也许最让我印象深刻的是它破旧的外观。只显示几何图案的彩色玻璃窗多处破损，下端垂下的窗帘布满了厚厚的灰尘。我注意到靠近我的大理石桌子的一角断裂了。尽管如此，总体效果还是极其丰富、如画的。大厅里大概有几百人就餐，他们中的大多数人都尽可能靠近我坐着，饶有兴趣地看着我，他们的小眼睛在他们吃的水果上闪闪发光。所有人都穿着同样柔软但又坚固的丝质材料。

‘Fruit, by the by, was all their diet. These people of the remote future were strict vegetarians, and while I was with them, in spite of some carnal cravings, I had to be frugivorous also. Indeed, I found afterwards that horses, cattle, sheep, dogs, had followed the Ichthyosaurus into extinction. But the fruits were very delightful; one, in particular, that seemed to be in season all the time I was there—a floury thing in a three-sided husk —was especially good, and I made it my staple. At first I was puzzled by all these strange fruits, and by the strange flowers I saw, but later I began to perceive their import.
“顺便说一句，水果是他们的全部饮食。这些遥远未来的人是严格的素食主义者，当我和他们在一起时，尽管有一些肉欲的渴望，我也必须吃水果。确实，后来我发现马、牛、羊、狗都跟着鱼龙灭绝了。但水果却非常美味。尤其是一种，我在那儿的时候似乎一直都是时令的——一种三边壳里的面粉状的东西——特别好吃，我把它当作我的主食。起初我对这些奇怪的水果和我看到的奇怪的花朵感到困惑，但后来我开始意识到它们的重要性。

‘However, I am telling you of my fruit dinner in the distant future now. So soon as my appetite was a little checked, I determined to make a resolute attempt to learn the speech of these new men of mine. Clearly that was the next thing to do. The fruits seemed a convenient thing to begin upon, and holding one of these up I began a series of interrogative sounds and gestures. I had some considerable difficulty in conveying my meaning. At first my efforts met with a stare of surprise or inextinguishable laughter, but presently a fair-haired little creature seemed to grasp my intention and repeated a name. They had to chatter and explain the business at great length to each other, and my first attempts to make the exquisite little sounds of their language caused an immense amount of amusement. However, I felt like a schoolmaster amidst children, and persisted, and presently I had a score of noun substantives at least at my command; and then I got to demonstrative pronouns, and even the verb ‘to eat.’ But it was slow work, and the little people soon tired and wanted to get away from my interrogations, so I determined, rather of necessity, to let them give their lessons in little doses when they felt inclined. And very little doses I found they were before long, for I never met people more indolent or more easily fatigued.
‘但是，我现在要告诉你的是遥远的将来我的水果晚餐。当我的胃口稍稍受到抑制后，我就决定坚决尝试学习这些新人的演讲。显然，这是下一步要做的事情。水果似乎是一个很方便的开始，我举起其中一个，开始发出一系列疑问的声音和手势。我在表达我的意思时遇到了相当大的困难。起初，我的努力遭到了惊讶的目光或无法抑制的笑声，但不久，一个金发小动物似乎明白了我的意图，并重复了一个名字。他们必须喋喋不休，向对方详细解释事情的经过，我第一次尝试用他们的语言发出精致的小声音，引起了极大的乐趣。然而，我感觉自己像一个孩子们中的校长，并坚持了下来，现在我至少掌握了二十个名词实词；然后我开始使用指示代词，甚至是动词“吃”。但这是一项缓慢的工作，小人们很快就累了，想摆脱我的审问，所以我决定，相当必要的是，让他们给当他们愿意时，他们会少量地学习课程。不久之后我发现他们的剂量很小，因为我从未见过比他们更懒惰或更容易疲劳的人。

‘A queer thing I soon discovered about my little hosts, and that was their lack of interest. They would come to me with eager cries of astonishment, like children, but like children they would soon stop examining me and wander away after some other toy. The dinner and my conversational beginnings ended, I noted for the first time that almost all those who had surrounded me at first were gone. It is odd, too, how speedily I came to disregard these little people. I went out through the portal into the sunlit world again as soon as my hunger was satisfied. I was continually meeting more of these men of the future, who would follow me a little distance, chatter and laugh about me, and, having smiled and gesticulated in a friendly way, leave me again to my own devices.
“我很快就发现我的小主人有一件奇怪的事情，那就是他们缺乏兴趣。他们会像孩子一样，带着惊讶的急切叫声来到我身边，但像孩子一样，他们很快就会停止检查我，转而去寻找其他玩具。晚餐和我的谈话开始结束，我第一次注意到，几乎所有最初包围我的人都走了。同样奇怪的是，我很快就开始忽视这些小人物了。饥饿一饱，我就通过传送门再次进入阳光明媚的世界。我不断地遇到更多这样的未来人，他们会跟随我一段距离，谈论我，嘲笑我，然后友好地微笑并打手势，然后再次让我自行其事。

‘The calm of evening was upon the world as I emerged from the great hall, and the scene was lit by the warm glow of the setting sun. At first things were very confusing. Everything was so entirely different from the world I had known—even the flowers. The big building I had left was situated on the slope of a broad river valley, but the Thames had shifted perhaps a mile from its present position. I resolved to mount to the summit of a crest perhaps a mile and a half away, from which I could get a wider view of this our planet in the year Eight Hundred and Two Thousand Seven Hundred and One A.D. For that, I should explain, was the date the little dials of my machine recorded.
“当我从大厅里出来时，夜幕降临，世界一片平静，夕阳的温暖光芒照亮了整个场景。起初事情非常混乱。一切都与我所知道的世界完全不同——甚至是花。我离开的那座大建筑坐落在宽阔河谷的斜坡上，但泰晤士河已经从现在的位置移动了大约一英里。我决定登上大约一英里半外的山顶，从那里我可以更广阔地观察公元八十二千七百一一年的这个星球。为此，我应该解释一下，是我机器上的小表盘记录的日期。

‘As I walked I was watching for every impression that could possibly help to explain the condition of ruinous splendour in which I found the world—for ruinous it was. A little way up the hill, for instance, was a great heap of granite, bound together by masses of aluminium, a vast labyrinth of precipitous walls and crumpled heaps, amidst which were thick heaps of very beautiful pagoda-like plants—nettles possibly—but wonderfully tinted with brown about the leaves, and incapable of stinging. It was evidently the derelict remains of some vast structure, to what end built I could not determine. It was here that I was destined, at a later date, to have a very strange experience—the first intimation of a still stranger discovery—but of that I will speak in its proper place.
“当我行走时，我留意着每一个可能有助于解释我所发现的世界的毁灭性辉煌状况的印象——因为它确实是毁灭性的。例如，在山上不远的地方，有一大堆花岗岩，由大量的铝连接在一起，是一个由陡峭的墙壁和皱巴巴的堆组成的巨大迷宫，其中有厚厚的一堆非常美丽的宝塔状植物——可能是荨麻——但叶子周围呈美妙的棕色，而且不会刺痛。显然，这是某个巨大建筑的废弃遗迹，我无法确定其建造目的是什么。正是在这里，我注定在以后的日子里会有一次非常奇怪的经历——第一次暗示更奇怪的发现——但我会在适当的地方谈论它。

‘Looking round with a sudden thought, from a terrace on which I rested for a while, I realized that there were no small houses to be seen. Apparently the single house, and possibly even the household, had vanished. Here and there among the greenery were palace-like buildings, but the house and the cottage, which form such characteristic features of our own English landscape, had disappeared.
”我在露台上休息了一会儿，突然想到，环顾四周，发现并没有看到任何小房子。显然，唯一的房子，甚至可能是整个家庭，都消失了。绿树丛中到处都是宫殿式的建筑，但构成我们英国风景特色的房屋和小屋却消失了。

‘“Communism,’ said I to myself.
“‘共产主义’，我对自己说。

‘And on the heels of that came another thought. I looked at the half-dozen little figures that were following me. Then, in a flash, I perceived that all had the same form of costume, the same soft hairless visage, and the same girlish rotundity of limb. It may seem strange, perhaps, that I had not noticed this before. But everything was so strange. Now, I saw the fact plainly enough. In costume, and in all the differences of texture and bearing that now mark off the sexes from each other, these people of the future were alike. And the children seemed to my eyes to be but the miniatures of their parents. I judged, then, that the children of that time were extremely precocious, physically at least, and I found afterwards abundant verification of my opinion.
'紧接着又出现了另一个想法。我看着跟随我的六个小人影。然后，在一刹那间，我发现所有人都穿着同样的服装，同样柔软、无毛的面容，以及同样少女般圆润的四肢。也许这看起来很奇怪，因为我以前没有注意到这一点。但一切都是那么的奇怪。现在，我清楚地看到了这个事实。在服装上，以及现在区分性别的所有质地和举止差异上，这些未来的人都是相似的。在我看来，孩子们只不过是他们父母的缩影。于是我判断，那个时代的孩子们非常早熟，至少在身体上是这样，后来我发现了很多证据证明了我的观点。

‘Seeing the ease and security in which these people were living, I felt that this close resemblance of the sexes was after all what one would expect; for the strength of a man and the softness of a woman, the institution of the family, and the differentiation of occupations are mere militant necessities of an age of physical force; where population is balanced and abundant, much childbearing becomes an evil rather than a blessing to the State; where violence comes but rarely and off-spring are secure, there is less necessity—indeed there is no necessity—for an efficient family, and the specialization of the sexes with reference to their children’s needs disappears. We see some beginnings of this even in our own time, and in this future age it was complete. This, I must remind you, was my speculation at the time. Later, I was to appreciate how far it fell short of the reality.
“看到这些人过着安逸又安全的生活，我觉得这种性别上的相似性毕竟是人们所期望的；因为男人的坚强和女人的温柔、家庭制度和职业的区别，仅仅是体力时代的军事必需品；在人口平衡且充沛的地方，生育过多对国家来说不是一件好事，而是一种祸害；在暴力发生但很少发生且后代有安全的地方，就没有必要——实际上没有必要——建立一个有效率的家庭，并且关于孩子的需要的性别专业化也消失了。即使在我们这个时代，我们也看到了这种情况的一些开始，并且在未来的时代它已经完成。我必须提醒你，这是我当时的猜测。后来我才意识到它与现实有多么的差距。

‘While I was musing upon these things, my attention was attracted by a pretty little structure, like a well under a cupola. I thought in a transitory way of the oddness of wells still existing, and then resumed the thread of my speculations. There were no large buildings towards the top of the hill, and as my walking powers were evidently miraculous, I was presently left alone for the first time. With a strange sense of freedom and adventure I pushed on up to the crest.
“当我沉思这些事情时，我的注意力被一个漂亮的小结构吸引了，就像冲天炉下的一口井。我短暂地想到了仍然存在的井的奇怪之处，然后又继续我的猜测。山顶附近没有大型建筑物，而且我的行走能力显然是神奇的，这会儿我第一次独自一人。带着一种奇怪的自由感和冒险感，我继续攀登顶峰。

‘There I found a seat of some yellow metal that I did not recognize, corroded in places with a kind of pinkish rust and half smothered in soft moss, the arm-rests cast and filed into the resemblance of griffins’ heads. I sat down on it, and I surveyed the broad view of our old world under the sunset of that long day. It was as sweet and fair a view as I have ever seen. The sun had already gone below the horizon and the west was flaming gold, touched with some horizontal bars of purple and crimson. Below was the valley of the Thames, in which the river lay like a band of burnished steel. I have already spoken of the great palaces dotted about among the variegated greenery, some in ruins and some still occupied. Here and there rose a white or silvery figure in the waste garden of the earth, here and there came the sharp vertical line of some cupola or obelisk. There were no hedges, no signs of proprietary rights, no evidences of agriculture; the whole earth had become a garden.
“在那里，我发现了一张我不认识的黄色金属座椅，有些地方被腐蚀了，有一种粉红色的铁锈，一半被柔软的苔藓覆盖，扶手铸造并排列成狮鹫头部的形状。我坐在上面，在漫长的一天的夕阳下，我审视着我们旧世界的广阔景色。这是我所见过的最甜蜜、最美丽的景色。太阳已经落到地平线以下，西方呈现出炽热的金色，点缀着一些水平的紫色和深红色条纹。下面是泰晤士河谷，河水像一条抛光的钢带一样横亘其中。我已经谈到了点缀在杂色绿地中的宏伟宫殿，有的已成废墟，有的仍然有人居住。在地球的荒废花园中，时不时地出现一个白色或银色的身影，时不时出现一些冲天炉或方尖碑的尖锐垂直线。没有树篱，没有所有权的迹象，没有农业的证据；整个地球变成了一个花园。

‘So watching, I began to put my interpretation upon the things I had seen, and as it shaped itself to me that evening, my interpretation was something in this way. (Afterwards I found I had got only a half-truth—or only a glimpse of one facet of the truth.)
‘所以看着，我开始对我所看到的事物做出我的解释，当那天晚上它在我身上形成时，我的解释就是这样的。 （后来我发现我只得到了一半的真相——或者说只是瞥见了真相的一个方面。）

‘It seemed to me that I had happened upon humanity upon the wane. The ruddy sunset set me thinking of the sunset of mankind. For the first time I began to realize an odd consequence of the social effort in which we are at present engaged. And yet, come to think, it is a logical consequence enough. Strength is the outcome of need; security sets a premium on feebleness. The work of ameliorating the conditions of life—the true civilizing process that makes life more and more secure—had gone steadily on to a climax. One triumph of a united humanity over Nature had followed another. Things that are now mere dreams had become projects deliberately put in hand and carried forward. And the harvest was what I saw!
“在我看来，我碰巧遇到了正在衰落的人类。红润的夕阳让我想起了人类的夕阳。我第一次开始意识到我们目前所从事的社会努力产生了一个奇怪的后果。然而，仔细想想，这是一个足够合乎逻辑的结果。力量是需要的结果；安全性比脆弱性更重要。改善生活条件的工作——让生活变得越来越安全的真正的文明进程——已经稳步走向高潮。团结一致的人类战胜自然的胜利接踵而至。现在仅仅是梦想的事情已经变成了刻意投入并推进的项目。而收获就是我所看到的！

‘After all, the sanitation and the agriculture of to-day are still in the rudimentary stage. The science of our time has attacked but a little department of the field of human disease, but even so, it spreads its operations very steadily and persistently. Our agriculture and horticulture destroy a weed just here and there and cultivate perhaps a score or so of wholesome plants, leaving the greater number to fight out a balance as they can. We improve our favourite plants and animals —and how few they are—gradually by selective breeding; now a new and better peach, now a seedless grape, now a sweeter and larger flower, now a more convenient breed of cattle. We improve them gradually, because our ideals are vague and tentative, and our knowledge is very limited; because Nature, too, is shy and slow in our clumsy hands. Some day all this will be better organized, and still better. That is the drift of the current in spite of the eddies. The whole world will be intelligent, educated, and co-operating; things will move faster and faster towards the subjugation of Nature. In the end, wisely and carefully we shall readjust the balance of animal and vegetable me to suit our human needs.
毕竟，今天的卫生和农业还处于初级阶段。我们这个时代的科学只攻击了人类疾病领域的一小部分，但即便如此，它仍然非常稳定和持久地传播其运作。我们的农业和园艺只是到处消灭杂草，并培育大约二十种有益健康的植物，让更多的植物尽可能地争取平衡。我们通过选择性育种逐渐改良我们最喜欢的植物和动物——以及它们的数量；现在是新的更好的桃子，现在是无籽葡萄，现在是更甜更大的花，现在是更方便的牛品种。我们逐步完善它们，因为我们的理想是模糊的、暂定的，我们的知识也很有限；因为大自然在我们笨拙的手中也是害羞而缓慢的。总有一天，这一切都会得到更好的组织，而且会更好。这就是尽管存在涡流但水流的漂移。整个世界将变得智能、受教育、合作；事情会越来越快地走向征服自然。最终，我们将明智而谨慎地重新调整动物和植物的平衡，以适应人类的需求。

‘This adjustment, I say, must have been done, and done well; done indeed for all Time, in the space of Time across which my machine had leaped. The air was free from gnats, the earth from weeds or fungi; everywhere were fruits and sweet and delightful flowers; brilliant butterflies flew hither and thither. The ideal of preventive medicine was attained. Diseases had been stamped out. I saw no evidence of any contagious diseases during all my stay. And I shall have to tell you later that even the processes of putrefaction and decay had been profoundly affected by these changes.
“我说，这种调整一定已经完成，而且做得很好；确实是在我的机器跨越的时间空间中永远完成的。空气中没有蚊虫，土地上没有杂草或真菌。到处都是水果和甜美可爱的花朵。绚丽的蝴蝶飞来飞去。预防医学的理想已经达到。疾病已被消灭。在我逗留期间，我没有看到任何传染病的证据。稍后我必须告诉你，甚至腐烂和腐烂的过程也受到了这些变化的深刻影响。

‘Social triumphs, too, had been effected. I saw mankind housed in splendid shelters, gloriously clothed, and as yet I had found them engaged in no toil. There were no signs of struggle, neither social nor economical struggle. The shop, the advertisement, traffic, all that commerce which constitutes the body of our world, was gone. It was natural on that golden evening that I should jump at the idea of a social paradise. The difficulty of increasing population had been met, I guessed, and population had ceased to increase.
“社会方面也取得了胜利。我看到人类住在华丽的庇护所里，穿着华丽的衣服，但到目前为止我还没有发现他们从事任何劳作。没有任何斗争的迹象，无论是社会斗争还是经济斗争。商店、广告、交通以及构成我们世界主体的所有商业活动都消失了。在那个金色的夜晚，我自然而然地想到了社交天堂的想法。我猜想，人口增长的困难已经解决了，人口已经停止增长了。

‘But with this change in condition comes inevitably adaptations to the change. What, unless biological science is a mass of errors, is the cause of human intelligence and vigour? Hardship and freedom: conditions under which the active, strong, and subtle survive and the weaker go to the wall; conditions that put a premium upon the loyal alliance of capable men, upon self-restraint, patience, and decision. And the institution of the family, and the emotions that arise therein, the fierce jealousy, the tenderness for offspring, parental self-devotion, all found their justification and support in the imminent dangers of the young. NOW, where are these imminent dangers? There is a sentiment arising, and it will grow, against connubial jealousy, against fierce maternity, against passion of all sorts; unnecessary things now, and things that make us uncomfortable, savage survivals, discords in a refined and pleasant life.
“但随着条件的变化，不可避免地会出现对变化的适应。除非生物科学存在大量错误，否则人类智慧和活力的原因是什么？艰难与自由：积极、强者、微妙者生存，弱者濒临绝境的条件；这些条件重视有能力的人的忠诚联盟、自我克制、耐心和决心。家庭制度以及其中产生的情感、强烈的嫉妒、对后代的温柔、父母的自我奉献，都在年轻人迫在眉睫的危险中找到了合理性和支持。现在，这些迫在眉睫的危险在哪里？人们会产生一种情绪，并且这种情绪将会增长，反对夫妻间的嫉妒、反对激烈的母性、反对各种激情。现在不必要的事情，以及让我们不舒服的事情，野蛮的生存，与精致愉快的生活的不和谐。

‘I thought of the physical slightness of the people, their lack of intelligence, and those big abundant ruins, and it strengthened my belief in a perfect conquest of Nature. For after the battle comes Quiet. Humanity had been strong, energetic, and intelligent, and had used all its abundant vitality to alter the conditions under which it lived. And now came the reaction of the altered conditions.
“我想到了人们身体的瘦弱、智力的缺乏，以及那些巨大而丰富的废墟，这增强了我完美征服自然的信念。因为战斗结束后就会安静。人类曾经是强大的、精力充沛的、聪明的，并利用其所有丰富的生命力来改变其生存条件。现在是改变条件后的反应。

‘Under the new conditions of perfect comfort and security, that restless energy, that with us is strength, would become weakness. Even in our own time certain tendencies and desires, once necessary to survival, are a constant source of failure. Physical courage and the love of battle, for instance, are no great help—may even be hindrances—to a civilized man. And in a state of physical balance and security, power, intellectual as well as physical, would be out of place. For countless years I judged there had been no danger of war or solitary violence, no danger from wild beasts, no wasting disease to require strength of constitution, no need of toil. For such a life, what we should call the weak are as well equipped as the strong, are indeed no longer weak. Better equipped indeed they are, for the strong would be fretted by an energy for which there was no outlet. No doubt the exquisite beauty of the buildings I saw was the outcome of the last surgings of the now purposeless energy of mankind before it settled down into perfect harmony with the conditions under which it lived—the flourish of that triumph which began the last great peace. This has ever been the fate of energy in security; it takes to art and to eroticism, and then come languor and decay.
“在完美舒适和安全的新条件下，那种不安分的能量，对我们来说是力量，将变成弱点。即使在我们这个时代，某些倾向和欲望一旦是生存所必需的，就会成为失败的持续根源。例如，身体上的勇气和对战斗的热爱对于一个文明人来说并没有多大帮助，甚至可能是障碍。在身体平衡和安全的状态下，智力和身体上的力量都会显得格格不入。无数年来，我判断没有战争或单独暴力的危险，没有野兽的危险，没有需要体力的消耗性疾病，不需要劳作。对于这样的生活，我们所说的弱者和强者一样装备齐全，确实不再是弱者。他们的装备确实更好，因为强者会因为没有出口的能量而烦恼。毫无疑问，我所看到的建筑的精美绝伦是人类现在毫无目的的能量最后汹涌澎湃的结果，然后才与它所生活的条件完美和谐地稳定下来——那场胜利的繁荣，开始了最后的伟大和平。这一直是能源在安全领域的命运；它需要艺术和色情，然后是倦怠和腐烂。

‘Even this artistic impetus would at last die away—had almost died in the Time I saw. To adorn themselves with flowers, to dance, to sing in the sunlight: so much was left of the artistic spirit, and no more. Even that would fade in the end into a contented inactivity. We are kept keen on the grindstone of pain and necessity, and, it seemed to me, that here was that hateful grindstone broken at last!
“即使是这种艺术动力最终也会消失——在我看到的时代几乎消失了。用鲜花装饰自己，在阳光下跳舞、唱歌：艺术精神就只剩这么多了，仅此而已。即便如此，最终也会变成心满意足的无所事事。我们一直热衷于痛苦和必然性的磨刀石，在我看来，这块可恶的磨刀石终于被打破了！

‘As I stood there in the gathering dark I thought that in this simple explanation I had mastered the problem of the world— mastered the whole secret of these delicious people. Possibly the checks they had devised for the increase of population had succeeded too well, and their numbers had rather diminished than kept stationary. That would account for the abandoned ruins. Very simple was my explanation, and plausible enough—as most wrong theories are!
“当我站在逐渐变暗的夜色中时，我想，在这个简单的解释中，我已经掌握了世界的问题——掌握了这些可爱的人的全部秘密。也许他们为人口增长而设计的控制措施太过成功，他们的数量反而减少了，而不是保持不变。这就是废弃废墟的原因。我的解释非常简单，而且足够合理——就像大多数错误的理论一样！

V

‘As I stood there musing over this too perfect triumph of man, the full moon, yellow and gibbous, came up out of an overflow of silver light in the north-east. The bright little figures ceased to move about below, a noiseless owl flitted by, and I shivered with the chill of the night. I determined to descend and find where I could sleep.
当我站在那里沉思人类这一过于完美的胜利时，黄色的凸月满月从东北方溢出的银光中升起。下面那些明亮的小人物停止了移动，一只无声的猫头鹰飞过，我因夜色的寒冷而颤抖。我决定下去寻找可以睡觉的地方。

‘I looked for the building I knew. Then my eye travelled along to the figure of the White Sphinx upon the pedestal of bronze, growing distinct as the light of the rising moon grew brighter. I could see the silver birch against it. There was the tangle of rhododendron bushes, black in the pale light, and there was the little lawn. I looked at the lawn again. A queer doubt chilled my complacency. ‘No,’ said I stoutly to myself, ‘that was not the lawn.’
“我寻找我认识的建筑物。然后我的目光移向青铜基座上的白色狮身人面像，随着初升的月亮的光芒越来越亮，它变得越来越清晰。我可以看到它旁边的银桦树。那里是一丛丛杜鹃花丛，在苍白的灯光下呈黑色，还有那片小草坪。我又看了看草坪。一种奇怪的怀疑让我的自满情绪冷却了。 “不，”我坚定地对自己说，“那不是草坪。”

‘But it WAS the lawn. For the white leprous face of the sphinx was towards it. Can you imagine what I felt as this conviction came home to me? But you cannot. The Time Machine was gone!
“但那是草坪。”因为狮身人面像那张患麻风病的白色脸正对着它。你能想象当我意识到这一信念时我的感受吗？但你不能。时间机器不见了！

‘At once, like a lash across the face, came the possibility of losing my own age, of being left helpless in this strange new world. The bare thought of it was an actual physical sensation. I could feel it grip me at the throat and stop my breathing. In another moment I was in a passion of fear and running with great leaping strides down the slope. Once I fell headlong and cut my face; I lost no time in stanching the blood, but jumped up and ran on, with a warm trickle down my cheek and chin. All the time I ran I was saying to myself: ‘They have moved it a little, pushed it under the bushes out of the way.’ Nevertheless, I ran with all my might. All the time, with the certainty that sometimes comes with excessive dread, I knew that such assurance was folly, knew instinctively that the machine was removed out of my reach. My breath came with pain. I suppose I covered the whole distance from the hill crest to the little lawn, two miles perhaps, in ten minutes. And I am not a young man. I cursed aloud, as I ran, at my confident folly in leaving the machine, wasting good breath thereby. I cried aloud, and none answered. Not a creature seemed to be stirring in that moonlit world.
“立刻，就像脸上挨了一记鞭子，我有可能失去自己的年龄，在这个陌生的新世界里感到无助。光是想到它就是一种实际的身体感觉。我能感觉到它掐住了我的喉咙，让我停止了呼吸。在另一个时刻，我充满了恐惧，大步地跑下斜坡。有一次我一头栽倒，划破了脸；我赶紧止住血，但跳起来继续跑，一股温暖的水流顺着我的脸颊和下巴流下来。在我奔跑的过程中，我一直对自己说：“他们把它挪动了一点，把它推到灌木丛下面，让开。”尽管如此，我还是拼尽全力地跑。一直以来，带着有时伴随着过度恐惧的确定性，我知道这种保证是愚蠢的，本能地知道这台机器已经被移到我够不到的地方了。我的呼吸带着痛苦。我想我在十分钟内就走完了从山顶到小草坪的整个距离，大概有两英里。而且我也不是年轻人了。我边跑边大声咒骂我自信满满地离开机器，白白浪费了一口气。我大声喊叫，却无人回应。月光下的世界里似乎没有任何生物在活动。

‘When I reached the lawn my worst fears were realized. Not a trace of the thing was to be seen. I felt faint and cold when I faced the empty space among the black tangle of bushes. I ran round it furiously, as if the thing might be hidden in a corner, and then stopped abruptly, with my hands clutching my hair. Above me towered the sphinx, upon the bronze pedestal, white, shining, leprous, in the light of the rising moon. It seemed to smile in mockery of my dismay.
“当我到达草坪时，我最担心的事情发生了。看不到那东西的任何痕迹。当我面对黑色灌木丛中的空地时，我感到头晕目眩、寒冷。我疯狂地绕着它跑，好像那东西可能藏在角落里，然后突然停了下来，双手抓着头发。在我上方，青铜底座上矗立着狮身人面像，在初升的月亮的照耀下，它白色的、闪闪发光的、麻风病般的。它似乎在嘲笑我的沮丧。

‘I might have consoled myself by imagining the little people had put the mechanism in some shelter for me, had I not felt assured of their physical and intellectual inadequacy. That is what dismayed me: the sense of some hitherto unsuspected power, through whose intervention my invention had vanished. Yet, for one thing I felt assured: unless some other age had produced its exact duplicate, the machine could not have moved in time. The attachment of the levers—I will show you the method later— prevented any one from tampering with it in that way when they were removed. It had moved, and was hid, only in space. But then, where could it be?
“如果我没有确信他们的身体和智力不足，我可能会通过想象这些小人物为我把这个装置放在某个庇护所来安慰自己。这就是令我沮丧的原因：某种迄今为止未被怀疑的力量的感觉，通过它的干预，我的发明消失了。然而，我确信的一件事是：除非其他时代制造出它的精确复制品，否则机器不可能及时移动。杠杆的连接——我稍后会向你展示方法——可以防止任何人在移除杠杆时以这种方式对其进行篡改。它已经移动，并且隐藏在太空中。但那么，它又会在哪里呢？

‘I think I must have had a kind of frenzy. I remember running violently in and out among the moonlit bushes all round the sphinx, and startling some white animal that, in the dim light, I took for a small deer. I remember, too, late that night, beating the bushes with my clenched fist until my knuckles were gashed and bleeding from the broken twigs. Then, sobbing and raving in my anguish of mind, I went down to the great building of stone. The big hall was dark, silent, and deserted. I slipped on the uneven floor, and fell over one of the malachite tables, almost breaking my shin. I lit a match and went on past the dusty curtains, of which I have told you.
“我想我一定有一种疯狂。我记得我在狮身人面像周围月光照射下的灌木丛中猛烈地跑进跑出，吓到了一些白色的动物，在昏暗的光线下，我以为是一只小鹿。我还记得，那天深夜，我用紧握的拳头敲打灌木丛，直到指关节被折断的树枝割伤流血。然后，我在内心的痛苦中抽泣着，胡言乱语，走到了那座巨大的石头建筑前。偌大的大厅，漆黑一片，寂静无声，空无一人。我在不平坦的地板上滑了一跤，摔倒在一张孔雀石桌子上，几乎摔断了我的小腿。我点燃了一根火柴，穿过布满灰尘的窗帘，我已经告诉过你了。

‘There I found a second great hall covered with cushions, upon which, perhaps, a score or so of the little people were sleeping. I have no doubt they found my second appearance strange enough, coming suddenly out of the quiet darkness with inarticulate noises and the splutter and flare of a match. For they had forgotten about matches. ‘Where is my Time Machine?’ I began, bawling like an angry child, laying hands upon them and shaking them up together. It must have been very queer to them. Some laughed, most of them looked sorely frightened. When I saw them standing round me, it came into my head that I was doing as foolish a thing as it was possible for me to do under the circumstances, in trying to revive the sensation of fear. For, reasoning from their daylight behaviour, I thought that fear must be forgotten.
“在那里，我发现了第二个大厅，上面铺满了垫子，上面可能睡着大约二十个小矮人。毫无疑问，他们发现我的第二次出现已经足够奇怪了，我突然从安静的黑暗中出现，伴随着难以言喻的噪音和火柴的噼啪声和火光。因为他们忘记了比赛。 “我的时间机器在哪里？”我像一个愤怒的孩子一样嚎叫着，把手放在他们身上，把他们摇在一起。这对他们来说一定很奇怪。有些人笑了，大多数人看起来都非常害怕。当我看到他们站在我周围时，我突然意识到，在这种情况下，我试图恢复恐惧感，这是我所能做的最愚蠢的事情。因为，从他们白天的行为来看，我认为必须忘记恐惧。

‘Abruptly, I dashed down the match, and, knocking one of the people over in my course, went blundering across the big dining-hall again, out under the moonlight. I heard cries of terror and their little feet running and stumbling this way and that. I do not remember all I did as the moon crept up the sky. I suppose it was the unexpected nature of my loss that maddened me. I felt hopelessly cut off from my own kind—a strange animal in an unknown world. I must have raved to and fro, screaming and crying upon God and Fate. I have a memory of horrible fatigue, as the long night of despair wore away; of looking in this impossible place and that; of groping among moon-lit ruins and touching strange creatures in the black shadows; at last, of lying on the ground near the sphinx and weeping with absolute wretchedness. I had nothing left but misery. Then I slept, and when I woke again it was full day, and a couple of sparrows were hopping round me on the turf within reach of my arm.
“突然，我冲下火柴，撞倒了我路上的一个人，然后又跌跌撞撞地穿过大餐厅，在月光下。我听到恐怖的叫喊声和他们的小脚到处跑、跌跌撞撞的声音。我不记得当月亮爬上天空时我做了什么。我想正是我意外的损失让我发疯了。我感到绝望地与自己的同类——未知世界中的一种奇怪的动物——隔绝了。我一定是来来回回地胡言乱语，对上帝和命运尖叫哭泣。我记得当绝望的长夜渐渐过去时，我感到极度疲劳。寻找这个不可能的地方和那个；在月光下的废墟中摸索，触摸黑色阴影中的奇怪生物；最后，我躺在狮身人面像附近的地上，悲惨地哭泣。除了痛苦，我一无所有。然后我就睡着了，当我再次醒来时，天已经亮了，几只麻雀在我手臂伸手可及的草坪上围着我跳来跳去。

‘I sat up in the freshness of the morning, trying to remember how I had got there, and why I had such a profound sense of desertion and despair. Then things came clear in my mind. With the plain, reasonable daylight, I could look my circumstances fairly in the face. I saw the wild folly of my frenzy overnight, and I could reason with myself. ‘Suppose the worst?’ I said. ‘Suppose the machine altogether lost—perhaps destroyed? It behooves me to be calm and patient, to learn the way of the people, to get a clear idea of the method of my loss, and the means of getting materials and tools; so that in the end, perhaps, I may make another.’ That would be my only hope, perhaps, but better than despair. And, after all, it was a beautiful and curious world.
“我在清晨的清新中坐了起来，试图回忆自己是如何到达那里的，以及为什么我有如此深刻的遗弃和绝望感。然后事情就在我的脑海里清晰起来了。在平淡、合理的日光下，我可以公正地看待自己的处境。我一夜之间看到了自己的疯狂行为是多么愚蠢，我可以对自己进行推理。 “假设最坏的情况呢？”我说。 “假设机器完全丢失——也许被毁了？我应该保持冷静和耐心，学习人们的方式，弄清楚我的损失方式，以及获得材料和工具的途径；也许，最后我可以再做一个。”这也许是我唯一的希望，但总比绝望好。毕竟，这是一个美丽而好奇的世界。

‘But probably, the machine had only been taken away. Still, I must be calm and patient, find its hiding-place, and recover it by force or cunning. And with that I scrambled to my feet and looked about me, wondering where I could bathe. I felt weary, stiff, and travel-soiled. The freshness of the morning made me desire an equal freshness. I had exhausted my emotion. Indeed, as I went about my business, I found myself wondering at my intense excitement overnight. I made a careful examination of the ground about the little lawn. I wasted some time in futile questionings, conveyed, as well as I was able, to such of the little people as came by. They all failed to understand my gestures; some were simply stolid, some thought it was a jest and laughed at me. I had the hardest task in the world to keep my hands off their pretty laughing faces. It was a foolish impulse, but the devil begotten of fear and blind anger was ill curbed and still eager to take advantage of my perplexity. The turf gave better counsel. I found a groove ripped in it, about midway between the pedestal of the sphinx and the marks of my feet where, on arrival, I had struggled with the overturned machine. There were other signs of removal about, with queer narrow footprints like those I could imagine made by a sloth. This directed my closer attention to the pedestal. It was, as I think I have said, of bronze. It was not a mere block, but highly decorated with deep framed panels on either side. I went and rapped at these. The pedestal was hollow. Examining the panels with care I found them discontinuous with the frames. There were no handles or keyholes, but possibly the panels, if they were doors, as I supposed, opened from within. One thing was clear enough to my mind. It took no very great mental effort to infer that my Time Machine was inside that pedestal. But how it got there was a different problem.
“但很可能，机器只是被拿走了。尽管如此，我必须保持冷静和耐心，找到它的藏身之处，并通过武力或狡猾将其恢复。说完，我爬了起来，环顾四周，想知道哪里可以洗澡。我感到疲倦、僵硬、旅途劳顿。早晨的清新让我渴望同样的清新。我已经耗尽了我的情感。事实上，当我开始做自己的事情时，我发现自己对自己一夜之间的强烈兴奋感到惊讶。我仔细检查了小草坪周围的地面。我浪费了一些时间在徒劳的询问上，尽我所能地向路过的小人物传达这些信息。他们都无法理解我的手势；有些人只是无动于衷，有些人认为这是一个笑话并嘲笑我。我面临着世界上最艰巨的任务，就是让我的手远离他们美丽的笑脸。这是一种愚蠢的冲动，但因恐惧和盲目愤怒而产生的魔鬼却难以抑制，仍然渴望利用我的困惑。草皮提供了更好的建议。我发现里面有一个凹槽，大约在狮身人面像基座和我的脚印之间的中间，我到达时曾与翻倒的机器挣扎过。周围还有其他被移除的迹象，有奇怪的狭窄脚印，就像我想象的树懒留下的脚印一样。这让我更加关注基座。正如我想我已经说过的，它是青铜制成的。它不仅仅是一个街区，而是经过精心装饰，两侧都有深框面板。我去敲击这些。基座是空心的。仔细检查面板，我发现它们与框架不连续。没有把手或钥匙孔，但可能是面板，如果它们是门，正如我所认为的，从内部打开。我心里很清楚一件事。 不费吹灰之力就能推断出我的时间机器就在那个基座里。但它是如何到达那里的却是一个不同的问题。

‘I saw the heads of two orange-clad people coming through the bushes and under some blossom-covered apple-trees towards me. I turned smiling to them and beckoned them to me. They came, and then, pointing to the bronze pedestal, I tried to intimate my wish to open it. But at my first gesture towards this they behaved very oddly. I don’t know how to convey their expression to you. Suppose you were to use a grossly improper gesture to a delicate-minded woman—it is how she would look. They went off as if they had received the last possible insult. I tried a sweet-looking little chap in white next, with exactly the same result. Somehow, his manner made me feel ashamed of myself. But, as you know, I wanted the Time Machine, and I tried him once more. As he turned off, like the others, my temper got the better of me. In three strides I was after him, had him by the loose part of his robe round the neck, and began dragging him towards the sphinx. Then I saw the horror and repugnance of his face, and all of a sudden I let him go.
“我看到两个穿着橙色衣服的人的头穿过灌木丛，从一些开满鲜花的苹果树下朝我走来。我转身对他们微笑并招手让他们过来。他们来了，然后，我指着青铜基座，试图表达我打开它的愿望。但当我第一次做出这样的举动时，他们的表现非常奇怪。我不知道如何向你传达他们的表情。假设你对一个心思细腻的女人做了一个极其不恰当的手势——她看起来就是这个样子。他们走开了，仿佛他们已经受到了最后一次侮辱。接下来我尝试了一个穿着白色衣服的可爱小伙子，结果完全相同。不知何故，他的态度让我感到羞愧。但是，如你所知，我想要时间机器，并且我再次尝试了他。当他像其他人一样闭嘴时，我的脾气就占了上风。我三步追赶他，抓住他长袍宽松的部分，把他套在脖子上，开始把他拖向狮身人面像。然后我看到他脸上的恐惧和厌恶，我突然放开了他。

‘But I was not beaten yet. I banged with my fist at the bronze panels. I thought I heard something stir inside—to be explicit, I thought I heard a sound like a chuckle—but I must have been mistaken. Then I got a big pebble from the river, and came and hammered till I had flattened a coil in the decorations, and the verdigris came off in powdery flakes. The delicate little people must have heard me hammering in gusty outbreaks a mile away on either hand, but nothing came of it. I saw a crowd of them upon the slopes, looking furtively at me. At last, hot and tired, I sat down to watch the place. But I was too restless to watch long; I am too Occidental for a long vigil. I could work at a problem for years, but to wait inactive for twenty-four hours—that is another matter.
“但我还没有被打败。我用拳头敲击青铜板。我以为我听到了内心有什么动静——明确地说，我以为我听到了一种类似笑声的声音——但我一定是弄错了。然后我从河里弄了一块大卵石，过来敲打，直到把装饰品中的一圈压扁，铜绿就变成了粉状的薄片。娇嫩的小家伙们一定听到了我在一英里外用两只手猛烈地敲击，但什么也没发生。我看到山坡上有一群人，偷偷地看着我。最后，又热又累，我坐下来观看这个地方。但我太焦躁了，无法长时间观看。我太西方化了，不适合长时间守夜。我可以为一个问题花费数年的时间，但二十四小时内无所事事地等待——那就是另一回事了。

‘I got up after a time, and began walking aimlessly through the bushes towards the hill again. ‘Patience,’ said I to myself. ‘If you want your machine again you must leave that sphinx alone. If they mean to take your machine away, it’s little good your wrecking their bronze panels, and if they don’t, you will get it back as soon as you can ask for it. To sit among all those unknown things before a puzzle like that is hopeless. That way lies monomania. Face this world. Learn its ways, watch it, be careful of too hasty guesses at its meaning. In the end you will find clues to it all.’ Then suddenly the humour of the situation came into my mind: the thought of the years I had spent in study and toil to get into the future age, and now my passion of anxiety to get out of it. I had made myself the most complicated and the most hopeless trap that ever a man devised. Although it was at my own expense, I could not help myself. I laughed aloud.
“过了一会儿，我站了起来，又开始漫无目的地穿过灌木丛，向山上走去。 “耐心点，”我对自己说。 “如果你想要再次拥有你的机器，你就必须离开那个狮身人面像。如果他们想拿走你的机器，那么你破坏他们的青铜面板就没有什么好处，如果他们不想，只要你提出要求，你就会把它拿回来。面对这样的谜题，坐在所有未知的事物中是没有希望的。那就是偏执狂。面对这个世界。了解它的方式，观察它，小心不要过于草率地猜测它的含义。最后你会找到这一切的线索。”突然，这种情况的幽默出现在我的脑海中：想到我多年来为进入未来时代而学习和辛劳，而现在我热衷于焦虑摆脱它。我为自己设计了有史以来最复杂、最无望的陷阱。虽然是我自己出钱，但我却身不由己。我放声大笑。

‘Going through the big palace, it seemed to me that the little people avoided me. It may have been my fancy, or it may have had something to do with my hammering at the gates of bronze. Yet I felt tolerably sure of the avoidance. I was careful, however, to show no concern and to abstain from any pursuit of them, and in the course of a day or two things got back to the old footing. I made what progress I could in the language, and in addition I pushed my explorations here and there. Either I missed some subtle point or their language was excessively simple—almost exclusively composed of concrete substantives and verbs. There seemed to be few, if any, abstract terms, or little use of figurative language. Their sentences were usually simple and of two words, and I failed to convey or understand any but the simplest propositions. I determined to put the thought of my Time Machine and the mystery of the bronze doors under the sphinx as much as possible in a corner of memory, until my growing knowledge would lead me back to them in a natural way. Yet a certain feeling, you may understand, tethered me in a circle of a few miles round the point of my arrival.
“穿过这座大宫殿，我觉得那些小人物都避开了我。这可能是我的幻想，也可能与我敲击青铜之门有关。但我对自己的回避感到十分确定。不过，我很小心，没有表现出任何关心，也没有对它们进行任何追捕，在一两天内，事情又回到了原来的状态。我在语言方面取得了尽可能多的进步，此外我还到处进行探索。要么我错过了一些微妙的要点，要么他们的语言过于简单——几乎完全由具体的实词和动词组成。抽象术语似乎很少（如果有的话），或者很少使用比喻语言。他们的句子通常很简单，只有两个词，我只能表达或理解最简单的命题。我决定把我的时间机器的想法和狮身人面像下的青铜门之谜尽可能地放在记忆的角落里，直到我不断增长的知识以自然的方式引导我回到它们。然而，你可能会理解，有一种感觉将我束缚在以我到达的地点为中心的几英里的圆圈中。

‘So far as I could see, all the world displayed the same exuberant richness as the Thames valley. From every hill I climbed I saw the same abundance of splendid buildings, endlessly varied in material and style, the same clustering thickets of evergreens, the same blossom-laden trees and tree-ferns. Here and there water shone like silver, and beyond, the land rose into blue undulating hills, and so faded into the serenity of the sky. A peculiar feature, which presently attracted my attention, was the presence of certain circular wells, several, as it seemed to me, of a very great depth. One lay by the path up the hill, which I had followed during my first walk. Like the others, it was rimmed with bronze, curiously wrought, and protected by a little cupola from the rain. Sitting by the side of these wells, and peering down into the shafted darkness, I could see no gleam of water, nor could I start any reflection with a lighted match. But in all of them I heard a certain sound: a thud-thud-thud, like the beating of some big engine; and I discovered, from the flaring of my matches, that a steady current of air set down the shafts. Further, I threw a scrap of paper into the throat of one, and, instead of fluttering slowly down, it was at once sucked swiftly out of sight.
“在我看来，整个世界都像泰晤士河谷一样繁荣富饶。从我爬过的每一座山上，我都看到同样丰富的辉煌建筑，在材料和风格上千差万别，同样的常青树丛，同样的鲜花盛开的树木和树蕨。到处都是水，闪闪发光，远处，陆地升起，变成蓝色起伏的山丘，然后消失在宁静的天空中。一个奇特的特征立即引起了我的注意，那就是某些圆形井的存在，在我看来，有几个井的深度非常深。其中一个位于上山的小路上，我第一次散步时就是沿着这条路走的。和其他的一样，它的边缘是青铜的，经过奇妙的锻造，并有一个小圆顶来遮雨。坐在这些井边，向下凝视黑暗中，看不到水的微光，也无法用点燃的火柴引发任何反射。但在所有这些声音中，我都听到了某种声音：咚咚咚咚的声音，就像某个大引擎的轰鸣声；我从火柴的燃烧中发现，一股稳定的气流沿着竖井向下流动。此外，我把一张纸片扔进一个人的喉咙里，它并没有慢慢地飘落下来，而是立即被迅速吸走，消失在视线之外。

‘After a time, too, I came to connect these wells with tall towers standing here and there upon the slopes; for above them there was often just such a flicker in the air as one sees on a hot day above a sun-scorched beach. Putting things together, I reached a strong suggestion of an extensive system of subterranean ventilation, whose true import it was difficult to imagine. I was at first inclined to associate it with the sanitary apparatus of these people. It was an obvious conclusion, but it was absolutely wrong.
“过了一段时间，我也开始把这些井与山坡上随处可见的高塔连接起来；因为在它们的上方，空气中常常闪烁着一种闪烁的光芒，就像人们在炎热的一天在被阳光炙烤的海滩上看到的那样。综合考虑，我强烈建议建立一个广泛的地下通风系统，其真正的重要性很难想象。起初我倾向于将它与这些人的卫生器具联系起来。这是一个显而易见的结论，但却是绝对错误的。

‘And here I must admit that I learned very little of drains and bells and modes of conveyance, and the like conveniences, during my time in this real future. In some of these visions of Utopias and coming times which I have read, there is a vast amount of detail about building, and social arrangements, and so forth. But while such details are easy enough to obtain when the whole world is contained in one’s imagination, they are altogether inaccessible to a real traveller amid such realities as I found here. Conceive the tale of London which a negro, fresh from Central Africa, would take back to his tribe! What would he know of railway companies, of social movements, of telephone and telegraph wires, of the Parcels Delivery Company, and postal orders and the like? Yet we, at least, should be willing enough to explain these things to him! And even of what he knew, how much could he make his untravelled friend either apprehend or believe? Then, think how narrow the gap between a negro and a white man of our own times, and how wide the interval between myself and these of the Golden Age! I was sensible of much which was unseen, and which contributed to my comfort; but save for a general impression of automatic organization, I fear I can convey very little of the difference to your mind.
“在这里，我必须承认，在我生活在这个真实的未来期间，我对排水沟、钟声、交通方式以及类似的便利设施知之甚少。在我读过的一些乌托邦和未来时代的愿景中，有大量关于建筑和社会安排等的细节。但是，虽然当整个世界都包含在一个人的想象中时，这些细节很容易获得，但对于一个真正的旅行者来说，在我在这里发现的现实中，它们是完全无法获得的。想象一下一个来自中非的黑人将伦敦带回他的部落的故事！他对铁路公司、社会运动、电话和电报线、包裹运送公司、邮政汇票等了解多少？但我们至少应该愿意向他解释这些事情！即便是他所知道的，他能让他未曾旅行过的朋友理解或相信多少？那么，想想我们这个时代的黑人和白人之间的差距是多么的小，而我自己和黄金时代的人之间的差距是多么的大啊！我能感觉到许多看不见的东西，这些都让我感到安慰。但除了自动组织的总体印象之外，恐怕我无法向您传达很少的差异。

‘In the matter of sepulchre, for instance, I could see no signs of crematoria nor anything suggestive of tombs. But it occurred to me that, possibly, there might be cemeteries (or crematoria) somewhere beyond the range of my explorings. This, again, was a question I deliberately put to myself, and my curiosity was at first entirely defeated upon the point. The thing puzzled me, and I was led to make a further remark, which puzzled me still more: that aged and infirm among this people there were none.
“例如，就坟墓而言，我看不到火葬场的迹象，也看不到任何坟墓的迹象。但我突然想到，在我的探索范围之外的某个地方，可能有墓地（或火葬场）。这又是我故意问自己的一个问题，而我的好奇心起初在这一点上完全消失了。这件事让我很困惑，于是我又说了一句话，这句话更让我困惑：这些人中没有年老体弱的人。

‘I must confess that my satisfaction with my first theories of an automatic civilization and a decadent humanity did not long endure. Yet I could think of no other. Let me put my difficulties. The several big palaces I had explored were mere living places, great dining-halls and sleeping apartments. I could find no machinery, no appliances of any kind. Yet these people were clothed in pleasant fabrics that must at times need renewal, and their sandals, though undecorated, were fairly complex specimens of metalwork. Somehow such things must be made. And the little people displayed no vestige of a creative tendency. There were no shops, no workshops, no sign of importations among them. They spent all their time in playing gently, in bathing in the river, in making love in a half-playful fashion, in eating fruit and sleeping. I could not see how things were kept going.
“我必须承认，我对自动文明和颓废人类的最初理论的满意并没有持续多久。但我想不出其他的了。我来说说我的困难吧。我探索过的几座大宫殿都只是起居室、大餐厅和卧室。我找不到机器，也没有任何类型的器具。然而，这些人穿着舒适的布料，有时肯定需要更新，他们的凉鞋虽然没有装饰，但却是相当复杂的金属制品。必须以某种方式做出这样的事情。这些小人物没有表现出任何创造性倾向。那里没有商店，没有作坊，也没有进口货的迹象。他们把所有的时间都花在轻轻地玩耍、在河里洗澡、半开玩笑地做爱、吃水果和睡觉。我看不出事情是如何继续下去的。

‘Then, again, about the Time Machine: something, I knew not what, had taken it into the hollow pedestal of the White Sphinx. Why? For the life of me I could not imagine. Those waterless wells, too, those flickering pillars. I felt I lacked a clue. I felt—how shall I put it? Suppose you found an inscription, with sentences here and there in excellent plain English, and interpolated therewith, others made up of words, of letters even, absolutely unknown to you? Well, on the third day of my visit, that was how the world of Eight Hundred and Two Thousand Seven Hundred and One presented itself to me!
“然后，再说一遍，关于时间机器：有什么东西，我不知道是什么，把它带进了白色狮身人面像的空心基座里。为什么？对于我的生活我无法想象。那些没有水的井，还有那些闪烁的柱子。我觉得我缺乏线索。我感觉到——我该怎么说呢？假设你发现了一段铭文，到处都是用非常简单的英语写成的句子，并插入其中，其他的则由单词，甚至字母组成，你完全不知道？嗯，到了第三天，八百二千七百零一的世界就是这样呈现在我面前的！

‘That day, too, I made a friend—of a sort. It happened that, as I was watching some of the little people bathing in a shallow, one of them was seized with cramp and began drifting downstream. The main current ran rather swiftly, but not too strongly for even a moderate swimmer. It will give you an idea, therefore, of the strange deficiency in these creatures, when I tell you that none made the slightest attempt to rescue the weakly crying little thing which was drowning before their eyes. When I realized this, I hurriedly slipped off my clothes, and, wading in at a point lower down, I caught the poor mite and drew her safe to land. A little rubbing of the limbs soon brought her round, and I had the satisfaction of seeing she was all right before I left her. I had got to such a low estimate of her kind that I did not expect any gratitude from her. In that, however, I was wrong.
“那天，我也结识了一位朋友——某种意义上来说。碰巧，当我看着一些小人物在浅水区洗澡时，其中一个抽筋了，开始漂流到下游。主流水流流得相当快，但即使对于中等水平的游泳者来说也不会太强。因此，当我告诉你，没有人尝试去营救这个在他们眼前溺水的微弱哭泣的小东西时，你就会了解这些生物的奇怪缺陷。当我意识到这一点时，我赶紧脱掉衣服，涉水到较低的地方，抓住了这只可怜的小螨虫，并把她安全地拉到了岸上。四肢的轻微摩擦很快让她苏醒过来，在我离开她之前，我很满意地看到她一切都好。我对她的评价太低了，以至于我没有指望她有任何感激之情。然而，我错了。

‘This happened in the morning. In the afternoon I met my little woman, as I believe it was, as I was returning towards my centre from an exploration, and she received me with cries of delight and presented me with a big garland of flowers— evidently made for me and me alone. The thing took my imagination. Very possibly I had been feeling desolate. At any rate I did my best to display my appreciation of the gift. We were soon seated together in a little stone arbour, engaged in conversation, chiefly of smiles. The creature’s friendliness affected me exactly as a child’s might have done. We passed each other flowers, and she kissed my hands. I did the same to hers. Then I tried talk, and found that her name was Weena, which, though I don’t know what it meant, somehow seemed appropriate enough. That was the beginning of a queer friendship which lasted a week, and ended—as I will tell you!
‘这件事发生在早上。下午，我相信，当我从探险返回中心时，我遇到了我的小女人，她高兴地叫喊着迎接我，并送给我一个大花环——显然是为我和我做的。独自的。这件事激发了我的想象力。很可能我一直感到孤独。无论如何，我尽了最大的努力来表达我对这份礼物的感激之情。我们很快就坐在一个小石头凉亭里，开始交谈，主要是微笑。这个生物的友善对我的影响就像小孩子一样。我们互相递花，她亲吻了我的手。我对她也做了同样的事。然后我试着说话，发现她的名字叫维娜，虽然我不知道这意味着什么，但不知何故似乎很合适。这是一段持续一周的酷儿友谊的开始，并结束了——我会告诉你的！

‘She was exactly like a child. She wanted to be with me always. She tried to follow me everywhere, and on my next journey out and about it went to my heart to tire her down, and leave her at last, exhausted and calling after me rather plaintively. But the problems of the world had to be mastered. I had not, I said to myself, come into the future to carry on a miniature flirtation. Yet her distress when I left her was very great, her expostulations at the parting were sometimes frantic, and I think, altogether, I had as much trouble as comfort from her devotion. Nevertheless she was, somehow, a very great comfort. I thought it was mere childish affection that made her cling to me. Until it was too late, I did not clearly know what I had inflicted upon her when I left her. Nor until it was too late did I clearly understand what she was to me. For, by merely seeming fond of me, and showing in her weak, futile way that she cared for me, the little doll of a creature presently gave my return to the neighbourhood of the White Sphinx almost the feeling of coming home; and I would watch for her tiny figure of white and gold so soon as I came over the hill.
‘她就像个孩子一样。她想永远和我在一起。她试图到处跟着我，而在我接下来的旅途中，我的心让她疲惫不堪，最后离开了她，疲惫不堪，在我身后哀怨地呼唤着。但世界的问题必须得到解决。我对自己说，我来到未来并不是为了进行一场小型的调情。然而，当我离开她时，她感到非常痛苦，她在离别时的劝告有时很疯狂，我想，总而言之，我从她的忠诚中得到了同样多的麻烦和安慰。尽管如此，不知何故，她还是一个很大的安慰。我以为她粘着我只是出于孩子气。直到为时已晚，我才清楚地知道我离开她时给她带来了什么。直到为时已晚，我才清楚地明白她对我来说意味着什么。因为，仅仅通过表现出喜欢我，并以她软弱而徒劳的方式表现出她对我的关心，这个小生物的娃娃很快就给我回到了白色狮身人面像附近，几乎感觉就像回到了家一样；当我翻过山坡时，我就会留意她那白色和金色的小身影。

‘It was from her, too, that I learned that fear had not yet left the world. She was fearless enough in the daylight, and she had the oddest confidence in me; for once, in a foolish moment, I made threatening grimaces at her, and she simply laughed at them. But she dreaded the dark, dreaded shadows, dreaded black things. Darkness to her was the one thing dreadful. It was a singularly passionate emotion, and it set me thinking and observing. I discovered then, among other things, that these little people gathered into the great houses after dark, and slept in droves. To enter upon them without a light was to put them into a tumult of apprehension. I never found one out of doors, or one sleeping alone within doors, after dark. Yet I was still such a blockhead that I missed the lesson of that fear, and in spite of Weena’s distress I insisted upon sleeping away from these slumbering multitudes.
“也是从她那里，我了解到恐惧还没有离开这个世界。白天她无所畏惧，而且对我抱有一种奇怪的信任。这一次，在一个愚蠢的时刻，我对她做了一个威胁性的鬼脸，而她只是嘲笑他们。但她害怕黑暗，害怕阴影，害怕黑色的东西。黑暗对她来说是最可怕的一件事。这是一种异常热烈的情感，它让我思考和观察。然后我发现，除其他外，这些小人物在天黑后聚集在大房子里，成群结队地睡觉。在没有灯光的情况下进入他们会让他们陷入恐惧的混乱之中。天黑后，我从未发现有人在户外，也从未发现有人独自睡在门内。然而我仍然是个傻瓜，错过了那种恐惧的教训，尽管维娜很痛苦，我还是坚持睡在远离这些沉睡的人群的地方。

‘It troubled her greatly, but in the end her odd affection for me triumphed, and for five of the nights of our acquaintance, including the last night of all, she slept with her head pillowed on my arm. But my story slips away from me as I speak of her. It must have been the night before her rescue that I was awakened about dawn. I had been restless, dreaming most disagreeably that I was drowned, and that sea anemones were feeling over my face with their soft palps. I woke with a start, and with an odd fancy that some greyish animal had just rushed out of the chamber. I tried to get to sleep again, but I felt restless and uncomfortable. It was that dim grey hour when things are just creeping out of darkness, when everything is colourless and clear cut, and yet unreal. I got up, and went down into the great hall, and so out upon the flagstones in front of the palace. I thought I would make a virtue of necessity, and see the sunrise.
“这让她很困扰，但最终她对我的奇怪感情取得了胜利，在我们认识的五个晚上，包括最后一个晚上，她睡觉时都把头枕在我的手臂上。但当我谈到她时，我的故事就从我身边溜走了。一定是在她获救的前一天晚上，我在黎明时分被吵醒了。我一直焦躁不安，最不舒服地梦见自己被淹死了，海葵用柔软的触须抚摸着我的脸。我猛地惊醒，奇怪地以为有只灰色的动物刚刚从房间里冲了出来。我试图再次入睡，但我感到不安和不舒服。那是一个昏暗的灰色时刻，事物刚刚从黑暗中爬出，一切都无色、清晰，但却不真实。我站起来，走进大厅，然后走到宫殿前的石板上。我以为我会因需要而积德，并看到日出。

‘The moon was setting, and the dying moonlight and the first pallor of dawn were mingled in a ghastly half-light. The bushes were inky black, the ground a sombre grey, the sky colourless and cheerless. And up the hill I thought I could see ghosts. There several times, as I scanned the slope, I saw white figures. Twice I fancied I saw a solitary white, ape-like creature running rather quickly up the hill, and once near the ruins I saw a leash of them carrying some dark body. They moved hastily. I did not see what became of them. It seemed that they vanished among the bushes. The dawn was still indistinct, you must understand. I was feeling that chill, uncertain, early-morning feeling you may have known. I doubted my eyes.
月亮正在落山，渐渐消失的月光和黎明的第一缕苍白交织在一起，形成了可怕的半明半暗的光亮。灌木丛漆黑一片，地面灰暗，天空灰暗无光。上了山，我以为我能看到鬼魂。有几次，当我扫视斜坡时，我看到了白色的人影。有两次，我幻想看到一只孤独的白色猿类生物飞快地跑上山，一靠近废墟，我就看到它们被皮带牵引着一些黑色的尸体。他们急忙行动。我没看到他们怎么样了。他们似乎消失在灌木丛中了。天色还很朦胧，你必须明白。我感受到了你可能知道的那种寒冷、不确定、清晨的感觉。我怀疑自己的眼睛。

‘As the eastern sky grew brighter, and the light of the day came on and its vivid colouring returned upon the world once more, I scanned the view keenly. But I saw no vestige of my white figures. They were mere creatures of the half light. ‘They must have been ghosts,’ I said; ‘I wonder whence they dated.’ For a queer notion of Grant Allen’s came into my head, and amused me. If each generation die and leave ghosts, he argued, the world at last will get overcrowded with them. On that theory they would have grown innumerable some Eight Hundred Thousand Years hence, and it was no great wonder to see four at once. But the jest was unsatisfying, and I was thinking of these figures all the morning, until Weena’s rescue drove them out of my head. I associated them in some indefinite way with the white animal I had startled in my first passionate search for the Time Machine. But Weena was a pleasant substitute. Yet all the same, they were soon destined to take far deadlier possession of my mind.
“随着东方的天空逐渐明亮，白昼的光芒再次降临，世界再次呈现出鲜艳的色彩，我敏锐地扫视着眼前的景色。但我没有看到我的白色身影的痕迹。他们只是半光明的生物。 “他们肯定是鬼魂，”我说。 “我想知道他们是从哪里约会的。”格兰特·艾伦的一个奇怪的想法出现在我的脑海里，让我觉得好笑。他认为，如果每一代人都死去并留下鬼魂，世界最终将变得人满为患。按照这个理论，大约八十万年后，它们会增长无数，同时看到四个也就不足为奇了。但这个玩笑并不令人满意，整个早上我都在想着这些数字，直到维娜的救援将它们从我的脑海中赶了出来。我以某种不确定的方式将它们与我第一次热情寻找时间机器时惊吓到的白色动物联系起来。但维娜是一个令人愉快的替代者。尽管如此，它们很快就注定会更加致命地占据我的思想。

‘I think I have said how much hotter than our own was the weather of this Golden Age. I cannot account for it. It may be that the sun was hotter, or the earth nearer the sun. It is usual to assume that the sun will go on cooling steadily in the future. But people, unfamiliar with such speculations as those of the younger Darwin, forget that the planets must ultimately fall back one by one into the parent body. As these catastrophes occur, the sun will blaze with renewed energy; and it may be that some inner planet had suffered this fate. Whatever the reason, the fact remains that the sun was very much hotter than we know it.
“我想我已经说过这个黄金时代的天气比我们现在的天气热得多。我无法解释它。可能是太阳更热，或者地球更靠近太阳。人们通常认为未来太阳将继续稳定冷却。但是，不熟悉年轻达尔文这样的推测的人们忘记了行星最终必须一一回归到母体中。当这些灾难发生时，太阳将焕发新的能量；可能某些内行星遭受了这种命运。不管出于什么原因，事实是太阳比我们想象的要热得多。

‘Well, one very hot morning—my fourth, I think—as I was seeking shelter from the heat and glare in a colossal ruin near the great house where I slept and fed, there happened this strange thing: Clambering among these heaps of masonry, I found a narrow gallery, whose end and side windows were blocked by fallen masses of stone. By contrast with the brilliancy outside, it seemed at first impenetrably dark to me. I entered it groping, for the change from light to blackness made spots of colour swim before me. Suddenly I halted spellbound. A pair of eyes, luminous by reflection against the daylight without, was watching me out of the darkness.
“好吧，一个非常炎热的早晨——我想是第四个早晨——当我在我睡觉和吃饭的大房子附近的一个巨大废墟中寻找避难所时，发生了一件奇怪的事情：在这些砖石堆中攀爬，我发现了一个狭窄的画廊，其末端和侧面的窗户都被掉落的石头挡住了。与外面的光彩相比，乍一看我觉得里面一片漆黑。我摸索着走进去，因为从光明到黑暗的变化让彩色的斑点在我面前游动。突然，我如痴如醉地停了下来。一双眼睛在外面的日光反射下闪闪发亮，正在黑暗中注视着我。

‘The old instinctive dread of wild beasts came upon me. I clenched my hands and steadfastly looked into the glaring eyeballs. I was afraid to turn. Then the thought of the absolute security in which humanity appeared to be living came to my mind. And then I remembered that strange terror of the dark. Overcoming my fear to some extent, I advanced a step and spoke. I will admit that my voice was harsh and ill-controlled. I put out my hand and touched something soft. At once the eyes darted sideways, and something white ran past me. I turned with my heart in my mouth, and saw a queer little ape-like figure, its head held down in a peculiar manner, running across the sunlit space behind me. It blundered against a block of granite, staggered aside, and in a moment was hidden in a black shadow beneath another pile of ruined masonry.
“我对野兽本能的恐惧再次袭来。我握紧双手，坚定地看着那双刺眼的眼珠。我害怕转身。然后，我的脑海中浮现出人类似乎生活在其中的绝对安全的想法。然后我想起了黑暗中那种奇怪的恐惧。我某种程度上克服了恐惧，向前迈出了一步，开口说道。我承认我的声音很刺耳且难以控制。我伸出手，摸到了柔软的东西。眼睛立刻向旁边看去，有一个白色的东西从我身边跑过。我心都提到了嗓子眼，转过头去，看见一个奇怪的小猿人形，以一种奇特的方式低着头，跑过我身后阳光明媚的空间。它跌跌撞撞地撞到一块花岗岩上，摇摇晃晃地滚到一边，一会儿就隐藏在另一堆废弃砖石下面的黑色阴影中。

‘My impression of it is, of course, imperfect; but I know it was a dull white, and had strange large greyish-red eyes; also that there was flaxen hair on its head and down its back. But, as I say, it went too fast for me to see distinctly. I cannot even say whether it ran on all-fours, or only with its forearms held very low. After an instant’s pause I followed it into the second heap of ruins. I could not find it at first; but, after a time in the profound obscurity, I came upon one of those round well-like openings of which I have told you, half closed by a fallen pillar. A sudden thought came to me. Could this Thing have vanished down the shaft? I lit a match, and, looking down, I saw a small, white, moving creature, with large bright eyes which regarded me steadfastly as it retreated. It made me shudder. It was so like a human spider! It was clambering down the wall, and now I saw for the first time a number of metal foot and hand rests forming a kind of ladder down the shaft. Then the light burned my fingers and fell out of my hand, going out as it dropped, and when I had lit another the little monster had disappeared.
“我对它的印象当然是不完美的；但我知道它是暗白色的，有一双奇怪的灰红色大眼睛。另外，它的头上和背上都有亚麻色的头发。但是，正如我所说，它进展得太快，我无法看清。我什至不能说它是用四肢奔跑，还是前臂放得很低。短暂的停顿后，我跟着它进入了第二堆废墟。起初我找不到它；但是，在黑暗中待了一段时间后，我发现了一个我告诉过你的圆形井状开口，被一根倒下的柱子半封闭着。我突然想到。这东西会不会已经消失在竖井里了？我点燃了一根火柴，低头一看，我看到一个白色的小动物正在移动，它有一双明亮的大眼睛，在它撤退时坚定地看着我。这让我不寒而栗。它太像人类蜘蛛了！它正沿着墙壁往下爬，现在我第一次看到许多金属脚踏板和扶手，形成一种沿着竖井向下的梯子。然后那盏灯烧伤了我的手指，从我的手中掉了下来，随着它的掉落而熄灭，当我点燃另一盏灯时，小怪物就消失了。

‘I do not know how long I sat peering down that well. It was not for some time that I could succeed in persuading myself that the thing I had seen was human. But, gradually, the truth dawned on me: that Man had not remained one species, but had differentiated into two distinct animals: that my graceful children of the Upper-world were not the sole descendants of our generation, but that this bleached, obscene, nocturnal Thing, which had flashed before me, was also heir to all the ages.
“我不知道我坐在那里凝视了多久。过了一段时间，我才成功地说服自己，我所看到的东西是人类。但是，渐渐地，我明白了真相：人类不再是一个物种，而是分化成了两种不同的动物：我优雅的上层世界孩子们并不是我们这一代人的唯一后代，而是这个漂白的、淫秽的，在我眼前闪过的夜行之物，也是万古传承。

‘I thought of the flickering pillars and of my theory of an underground ventilation. I began to suspect their true import. And what, I wondered, was this Lemur doing in my scheme of a perfectly balanced organization? How was it related to the indolent serenity of the beautiful Upper-worlders? And what was hidden down there, at the foot of that shaft? I sat upon the edge of the well telling myself that, at any rate, there was nothing to fear, and that there I must descend for the solution of my difficulties. And withal I was absolutely afraid to go! As I hesitated, two of the beautiful Upper-world people came running in their amorous sport across the daylight in the shadow. The male pursued the female, flinging flowers at her as he ran.
“我想到了闪烁的柱子和我的地下通风理论。我开始怀疑它们的真正重要性。我想知道，这只狐猴在我的完美平衡组织计划中正在做什么？它与美丽的上层世界人的慵懒宁静有什么关系？那根竖井的脚下到底藏着什么呢？我坐在井边告诉自己，无论如何，没有什么可害怕的，我必须下井去解决我的困难。而且我绝对不敢去！正当我犹豫不决的时候，两个美丽的上层世界的人在阴影中在白天的阳光下进行着他们多情的运动。雄性追赶雌性，边跑边向她扔花。

‘They seemed distressed to find me, my arm against the overturned pillar, peering down the well. Apparently it was considered bad form to remark these apertures; for when I pointed to this one, and tried to frame a question about it in their tongue, they were still more visibly distressed and turned away. But they were interested by my matches, and I struck some to amuse them. I tried them again about the well, and again I failed. So presently I left them, meaning to go back to Weena, and see what I could get from her. But my mind was already in revolution; my guesses and impressions were slipping and sliding to a new adjustment. I had now a clue to the import of these wells, to the ventilating towers, to the mystery of the ghosts; to say nothing of a hint at the meaning of the bronze gates and the fate of the Time Machine! And very vaguely there came a suggestion towards the solution of the economic problem that had puzzled me.
“他们似乎很痛苦地发现我，我的手臂靠在翻倒的柱子上，凝视着井底。显然，评论这些孔被认为是不礼貌的行为。因为当我指着这个，并试图用他们的舌头提出一个有关这个问题的问题时，他们仍然明显感到沮丧并转身走开。但他们对我的比赛很感兴趣，我也打了一些来逗他们开心。我又在井旁尝试了一次，但还是失败了。所以不久我就离开了他们，打算回到维娜那里，看看我能从她那里得到什么。但我的思想已经在革命了；我的猜测和印象正在滑向新的调整。我现在对这些井、通风塔、鬼魂之谜的重要性有了线索；更不用说青铜门的意义和时间机器的命运了！非常模糊地提出了解决令我困惑的经济问题的建议。

‘Here was the new view. Plainly, this second species of Man was subterranean. There were three circumstances in particular which made me think that its rare emergence above ground was the outcome of a long-continued underground habit. In the first place, there was the bleached look common in most animals that live largely in the dark—the white fish of the Kentucky caves, for instance. Then, those large eyes, with that capacity for reflecting light, are common features of nocturnal things— witness the owl and the cat. And last of all, that evident confusion in the sunshine, that hasty yet fumbling awkward flight towards dark shadow, and that peculiar carriage of the head while in the light—all reinforced the theory of an extreme sensitiveness of the retina.
“这是新的观点。显然，第二种人类是在地下的。特别是在三种情况下，我认为它在地面上的罕见出现是长期持续的地下习惯的结果。首先，大多数生活在黑暗中的动物都有一种常见的漂白外观——例如肯塔基州洞穴中的白鱼。然后，那些具有反射光能力的大眼睛是夜间活动物的共同特征——猫头鹰和猫就是例子。最后，阳光下明显的混乱，仓促而又笨拙地笨拙地飞向黑暗阴影，以及头部在光线下的奇特姿势——所有这些都强化了视网膜极度敏感的理论。

‘Beneath my feet, then, the earth must be tunnelled enormously, and these tunnellings were the habitat of the new race. The presence of ventilating shafts and wells along the hill slopes—everywhere, in fact except along the river valley —showed how universal were its ramifications. What so natural, then, as to assume that it was in this artificial Underworld that such work as was necessary to the comfort of the daylight race was done? The notion was so plausible that I at once accepted it, and went on to assume the how of this splitting of the human species. I dare say you will anticipate the shape of my theory; though, for myself, I very soon felt that it fell far short of the truth.
“那么，在我脚下，大地一定有巨大的隧道，而这些隧道就是新种族的栖息地。山坡上到处都有通风井和通风井，实际上除了河谷沿线之外，这表明其影响是多么普遍。那么，假设在这个人造地下世界中完成了白天比赛的舒适性所必需的工作，这是多么自然的事情呢？这个想法是如此可信，以至于我立即接受了它，并继续假设人类物种的分裂是如何发生的。我敢说你会预料到我的理论的形式；但就我自己而言，我很快就觉得这与事实相去甚远。

‘At first, proceeding from the problems of our own age, it seemed clear as daylight to me that the gradual widening of the present merely temporary and social difference between the Capitalist and the Labourer, was the key to the whole position. No doubt it will seem grotesque enough to you—and wildly incredible!—and yet even now there are existing circumstances to point that way. There is a tendency to utilize underground space for the less ornamental purposes of civilization; there is the Metropolitan Railway in London, for instance, there are new electric railways, there are subways, there are underground workrooms and restaurants, and they increase and multiply. Evidently, I thought, this tendency had increased till Industry had gradually lost its birthright in the sky. I mean that it had gone deeper and deeper into larger and ever larger underground factories, spending a still-increasing amount of its time therein, till, in the end—! Even now, does not an East-end worker live in such artificial conditions as practically to be cut off from the natural surface of the earth?
“首先，从我们这个时代的问题出发，我觉得很明显，资本家和工人之间目前只是暂时的社会差异的逐渐扩大，是整个立场的关键。毫无疑问，这对你来说已经够怪诞的了——而且难以置信！——但即使是现在，现有的情况也表明了这一点。人们倾向于利用地下空间来实现不太具有装饰性的文明目的；比如伦敦有大都会铁路，有新的电气化铁路，有地铁，有地下工作室和餐馆，而且还在不断增加和成倍增加。我想，显然这种趋势一直在加剧，直到工业逐渐失去了它与生俱来的天空权利。我的意思是，它在越来越大的地下工厂里越陷越深，在里面待的时间越来越长，直到最后——！即使是现在，东端工人不是生活在几乎与地球自然表面隔绝的人造条件下吗？

‘Again, the exclusive tendency of richer people—due, no doubt, to the increasing refinement of their education, and the widening gulf between them and the rude violence of the poor— is already leading to the closing, in their interest, of considerable portions of the surface of the land. About London, for instance, perhaps half the prettier country is shut in against intrusion. And this same widening gulf—which is due to the length and expense of the higher educational process and the increased facilities for and temptations towards refined habits on the part of the rich—will make that exchange between class and class, that promotion by intermarriage which at present retards the splitting of our species along lines of social stratification, less and less frequent. So, in the end, above ground you must have the Haves, pursuing pleasure and comfort and beauty, and below ground the Have-nots, the Workers getting continually adapted to the conditions of their labour. Once they were there, they would no doubt have to pay rent, and not a little of it, for the ventilation of their caverns; and if they refused, they would starve or be suffocated for arrears. Such of them as were so constituted as to be miserable and rebellious would die; and, in the end, the balance being permanent, the survivors would become as well adapted to the conditions of underground life, and as happy in their way, as the Upper-world people were to theirs. As it seemed to me, the refined beauty and the etiolated pallor followed naturally enough.
“再说一遍，富人的排外倾向——毫无疑问，由于他们的教育日益完善，以及他们与穷人的粗暴暴力之间的鸿沟不断扩大——已经导致为了他们的利益而关闭相当大的土地表面的一部分。例如，在伦敦，也许这个美丽国家的一半都被封锁以防止入侵。而这种日益扩大的鸿沟——这是由于高等教育过程的长度和费用以及富人的精致习惯的增加和诱惑——将使阶级与阶级之间的交流，通过通婚而促进目前，我们的物种沿着社会分层的分裂已经越来越少。因此，最终，地上一定有富人，追求快乐、舒适和美丽，而地下一定有穷人，即不断适应其劳动条件的工人。一旦他们到达那里，毫无疑问，他们必须支付租金，而且是不少，用于洞穴的通风。如果他们拒绝，他们就会因欠款而挨饿或窒息。那些生性悲惨、叛逆的人将会死去。最终，由于这种平衡是永久的，幸存者将会很好地适应地下生活的条件，并且像上层世界的人们一样快乐。在我看来，精致的美丽和苍白的苍白自然而然地随之而来。

‘The great triumph of Humanity I had dreamed of took a different shape in my mind. It had been no such triumph of moral education and general co-operation as I had imagined. Instead, I saw a real aristocracy, armed with a perfected science and working to a logical conclusion the industrial system of to-day. Its triumph had not been simply a triumph over Nature, but a triumph over Nature and the fellow-man. This, I must warn you, was my theory at the time. I had no convenient cicerone in the pattern of the Utopian books. My explanation may be absolutely wrong. I still think it is the most plausible one. But even on this supposition the balanced civilization that was at last attained must have long since passed its zenith, and was now far fallen into decay. The too-perfect security of the Upper-worlders had led them to a slow movement of degeneration, to a general dwindling in size, strength, and intelligence. That I could see clearly enough already. What had happened to the Under-grounders I did not yet suspect; but from what I had seen of the Morlocks—that, by the by, was the name by which these creatures were called—I could imagine that the modification of the human type was even far more profound than among the ‘Eloi,’ the beautiful race that I already knew.
“我所梦想的人类伟大胜利在我的脑海中呈现出不同的形态。这并不像我想象的那样是道德教育和普遍合作的胜利。相反，我看到了一个真正的贵族，他们拥有完善的科学，并致力于为当今的工业体系得出合乎逻辑的结论。它的胜利不仅仅是对自然的胜利，而且是对自然和人类同胞的胜利。我必须警告你，这是我当时的理论。我没有方便的乌托邦书籍模式中的cicerone。我的解释可能完全错误。我仍然认为这是最合理的。但即使按照这种假设，最终达到的平衡文明也必定早已过了它的顶峰，现在已经陷入了衰败。上层世界的安全感过于完美，导致他们缓慢退化，体型、力量和智力普遍下降。我已经看得够清楚了。我还不怀疑地下人发生了什么事；但从我对莫洛克人的观察来看——顺便说一句，这就是这些生物的名字——我可以想象，人类类型的改变甚至比“埃洛伊”（美丽的埃洛伊人）更为深刻。我已经知道的比赛。

‘Then came troublesome doubts. Why had the Morlocks taken my Time Machine? For I felt sure it was they who had taken it. Why, too, if the Eloi were masters, could they not restore the machine to me? And why were they so terribly afraid of the dark? I proceeded, as I have said, to question Weena about this Under-world, but here again I was disappointed. At first she would not understand my questions, and presently she refused to answer them. She shivered as though the topic was unendurable. And when I pressed her, perhaps a little harshly, she burst into tears. They were the only tears, except my own, I ever saw in that Golden Age. When I saw them I ceased abruptly to trouble about the Morlocks, and was only concerned in banishing these signs of the human inheritance from Weena’s eyes. And very soon she was smiling and clapping her hands, while I solemnly burned a match.
“然后就出现了麻烦的疑虑。为什么莫洛克人拿走了我的时间机器？因为我确信是他们拿走了它。如果埃洛伊人是大师，为什么他们不能把机器恢复给我呢？为什么他们如此害怕黑暗？正如我所说，我继续向维娜询问这个地下世界的情况，但我再次感到失望。起初她不明白我的问题，后来又拒绝回答。她浑身发抖，仿佛这个话题让她难以忍受。当我催促她时，也许有点严厉，她突然哭了起来。这是我在那个黄金时代见过的唯一的眼泪，除了我自己的眼泪。当我看到他们时，我突然不再为莫洛克人烦恼，只关心从维娜的眼中消除这些人类遗传的迹象。很快她就微笑着拍手，而我则郑重地点燃了一根火柴。

VI

‘It may seem odd to you, but it was two days before I could follow up the new-found clue in what was manifestly the proper way. I felt a peculiar shrinking from those pallid bodies. They were just the half-bleached colour of the worms and things one sees preserved in spirit in a zoological museum. And they were filthily cold to the touch. Probably my shrinking was largely due to the sympathetic influence of the Eloi, whose disgust of the Morlocks I now began to appreciate.
“这对你来说可能看起来很奇怪，但两天后我才能够以明显正确的方式追踪新发现的线索。我从那些苍白的身体中感到一种奇特的畏缩。它们只是蠕虫的半漂白颜色，以及人们在动物博物馆中看到的精神保存的东西。而且它们摸起来非常冰冷。也许我的退缩很大程度上是由于埃洛伊人的同情影响，我现在开始欣赏他们对莫洛克人的厌恶。

‘The next night I did not sleep well. Probably my health was a little disordered. I was oppressed with perplexity and doubt. Once or twice I had a feeling of intense fear for which I could perceive no definite reason. I remember creeping noiselessly into the great hall where the little people were sleeping in the moonlight—that night Weena was among them—and feeling reassured by their presence. It occurred to me even then, that in the course of a few days the moon must pass through its last quarter, and the nights grow dark, when the appearances of these unpleasant creatures from below, these whitened Lemurs, this new vermin that had replaced the old, might be more abundant. And on both these days I had the restless feeling of one who shirks an inevitable duty. I felt assured that the Time Machine was only to be recovered by boldly penetrating these underground mysteries. Yet I could not face the mystery. If only I had had a companion it would have been different. But I was so horribly alone, and even to clamber down into the darkness of the well appalled me. I don’t know if you will understand my feeling, but I never felt quite safe at my back.
‘第二天晚上我没睡好。可能我的健康状况有点紊乱。我心里充满了困惑和怀疑。有一两次，我有一种强烈的恐惧感，但我却找不到明确的原因。我记得我悄悄地爬进大厅，那里的小人们正在月光下睡觉——那天晚上，维娜就在他们中间——他们的存在让我感到安心。甚至在那时我就想到，在几天之内，月亮必须经过它的最后四分之一，夜晚变得黑暗，当这些令人不快的生物从下面出现时，这些白色的狐猴，这种取代了它的新害虫旧的，可能会更丰富。这两天我都有一种焦躁不安的感觉，就像一个逃避不可避免的责任的人。我确信只有大胆地探索这些地下奥秘才能恢复时间机器。但我无法面对这个谜团。如果我有一个同伴的话，一切都会不一样。但我是如此孤独，甚至爬进黑暗的井里都让我感到震惊。我不知道你是否能理解我的感受，但我在背后从来没有感到很安全。

‘It was this restlessness, this insecurity, perhaps, that drove me further and further afield in my exploring expeditions. Going to the south-westward towards the rising country that is now called Combe Wood, I observed far off, in the direction of nineteenth-century Banstead, a vast green structure, different in character from any I had hitherto seen. It was larger than the largest of the palaces or ruins I knew, and the facade had an Oriental look: the face of it having the lustre, as well as the pale-green tint, a kind of bluish-green, of a certain type of Chinese porcelain. This difference in aspect suggested a difference in use, and I was minded to push on and explore. But the day was growing late, and I had come upon the sight of the place after a long and tiring circuit; so I resolved to hold over the adventure for the following day, and I returned to the welcome and the caresses of little Weena. But next morning I perceived clearly enough that my curiosity regarding the Palace of Green Porcelain was a piece of self-deception, to enable me to shirk, by another day, an experience I dreaded. I resolved I would make the descent without further waste of time, and started out in the early morning towards a well near the ruins of granite and aluminium.
“也许正是这种不安、这种不安全感，驱使我在探索探险中越走越远。向西南方向前往现在被称为库姆森林的崛起国家，我在十九世纪班斯特德的方向远远地观察到了一座巨大的绿色建筑，其特征与我迄今为止所见过的任何建筑都不同。它比我所知道的最大的宫殿或废墟还要大，而且正面有一种东方的外观：它的表面有光泽，还有淡绿色的色调，一种蓝绿色，某种类型的。中国瓷器。这种方面的差异暗示了使用上的差异，我决心继续前进和探索。但天色已经晚了，我是在绕了一圈又长又累之后才看到这个地方的。所以我决定把这次冒险推迟到第二天，然后我又回到了小维娜的欢迎和爱抚中。但第二天早上，我清楚地意识到，我对青瓷宫殿的好奇心是一种自欺欺人，让我能够在另一天逃避一次我害怕的经历。我决定不再浪费时间继续下降，并在清晨出发前往花岗岩和铝废墟附近的一口井。

‘Little Weena ran with me. She danced beside me to the well, but when she saw me lean over the mouth and look downward, she seemed strangely disconcerted. ‘Good-bye, Little Weena,’ I said, kissing her; and then putting her down, I began to feel over the parapet for the climbing hooks. Rather hastily, I may as well confess, for I feared my courage might leak away! At first she watched me in amazement. Then she gave a most piteous cry, and running to me, she began to pull at me with her little hands. I think her opposition nerved me rather to proceed. I shook her off, perhaps a little roughly, and in another moment I was in the throat of the well. I saw her agonized face over the parapet, and smiled to reassure her. Then I had to look down at the unstable hooks to which I clung.
“小维娜和我一起跑。她在我旁边跳舞到井边，但当她看到我靠在嘴边向下看时，她似乎感到奇怪的不安。 “再见，小维娜。”我一边说，一边亲吻她。然后把她放下，我开始在栏杆上摸索攀爬钩。我还是仓促地承认吧，因为我担心我的勇气会消失！起初她惊讶地看着我。然后她发出一声凄惨的叫声，跑到我身边，开始用她的小手拉我。我认为她的反对让我更有勇气继续下去。我甩开了她，也许动作有点粗暴，转眼间我就到了井口了。我在栏杆上看到她痛苦的脸，微笑着安抚她。然后我不得不低头看着我抓住的不稳定的钩子。

‘I had to clamber down a shaft of perhaps two hundred yards. The descent was effected by means of metallic bars projecting from the sides of the well, and these being adapted to the needs of a creature much smaller and lighter than myself, I was speedily cramped and fatigued by the descent. And not simply fatigued! One of the bars bent suddenly under my weight, and almost swung me off into the blackness beneath. For a moment I hung by one hand, and after that experience I did not dare to rest again. Though my arms and back were presently acutely painful, I went on clambering down the sheer descent with as quick a motion as possible. Glancing upward, I saw the aperture, a small blue disk, in which a star was visible, while little Weena’s head showed as a round black projection. The thudding sound of a machine below grew louder and more oppressive. Everything save that little disk above was profoundly dark, and when I looked up again Weena had disappeared.
“我不得不爬下大约两百码的竖井。下降是通过从井两侧伸出的金属棒实现的，这些金属棒适应了比我小得多、轻得多的生物的需要，我很快就因下降而感到局促和疲劳。而且不仅仅是疲劳！其中一根栅栏在我的重量下突然弯曲，差点把我甩到下面的黑暗中。有那么一会儿，我一只手悬着，经历了那次之后，我再也不敢休息了。尽管我的手臂和背部现在剧痛，但我还是继续以尽可能快的动作爬下陡峭的山坡。抬头一看，我看到了光圈，一个蓝色的小圆盘，里面有一颗星星，而小维娜的头则呈现出一个圆形的黑色投影。下面机器的轰鸣声越来越大，越来越压抑。除了上面那个小圆盘之外，一切都漆黑一片，当我再次抬头时，维娜已经消失了。

‘I was in an agony of discomfort. I had some thought of trying to go up the shaft again, and leave the Under-world alone. But even while I turned this over in my mind I continued to descend. At last, with intense relief, I saw dimly coming up, a foot to the right of me, a slender loophole in the wall. Swinging myself in, I found it was the aperture of a narrow horizontal tunnel in which I could lie down and rest. It was not too soon. My arms ached, my back was cramped, and I was trembling with the prolonged terror of a fall. Besides this, the unbroken darkness had had a distressing effect upon my eyes. The air was full of the throb and hum of machinery pumping air down the shaft.
‘我正处于一种不舒服的痛苦之中。我想再次爬上竖井，别去打扰地狱。但即使我在心里反复思考这个问题，我还是继续下降。最后，我如释重负地看到，在我右边一英尺的地方，墙上隐约出现了一个细长的漏洞。我把自己晃了进去，发现那是一条狭窄的水平隧道的开口，我可以躺在里面休息。还不算太早。我的手臂疼痛，背部抽筋，长期害怕跌倒，我浑身发抖。除此之外，连绵不绝的黑暗也让我的眼睛感到痛苦。空气中充满了机器将空气抽入竖井的震动和嗡嗡声。

‘I do not know how long I lay. I was roused by a soft hand touching my face. Starting up in the darkness I snatched at my matches and, hastily striking one, I saw three stooping white creatures similar to the one I had seen above ground in the ruin, hastily retreating before the light. Living, as they did, in what appeared to me impenetrable darkness, their eyes were abnormally large and sensitive, just as are the pupils of the abysmal fishes, and they reflected the light in the same way. I have no doubt they could see me in that rayless obscurity, and they did not seem to have any fear of me apart from the light. But, so soon as I struck a match in order to see them, they fled incontinently, vanishing into dark gutters and tunnels, from which their eyes glared at me in the strangest fashion.
“我不知道我躺了多久。一只柔软的手抚摸着我的脸，我被惊醒了。我在黑暗中惊醒，抓起火柴，急忙划动一根，看到三个弯腰的白色生物，与我在废墟地面上看到的那个类似，在光亮前急忙撤退。正如它们一样，生活在我看来无法穿透的黑暗中，它们的眼睛异常大而敏感，就像深渊鱼的瞳孔一样，它们以同样的方式反射光线。我毫不怀疑他们能在那无光的黑暗中看到我，而且除了光之外，他们似乎对我没有任何恐惧。但是，当我划一根火柴想要看到他们时，他们就失禁逃跑，消失在黑暗的阴沟和隧道中，他们的眼睛以最奇怪的方式盯着我。

‘I tried to call to them, but the language they had was apparently different from that of the Over-world people; so that I was needs left to my own unaided efforts, and the thought of flight before exploration was even then in my mind. But I said to myself, ‘You are in for it now,’ and, feeling my way along the tunnel, I found the noise of machinery grow louder. Presently the walls fell away from me, and I came to a large open space, and striking another match, saw that I had entered a vast arched cavern, which stretched into utter darkness beyond the range of my light. The view I had of it was as much as one could see in the burning of a match.
“我试图呼唤他们，但他们的语言显然与主世界的人不同；因此，我需要靠自己的努力，在探索之前飞行的想法甚至在我的脑海中浮现。但我对自己说，“你现在就成功了”，沿着隧道摸索着，我发现机器的噪音越来越大。不久，墙壁就离我而去，我来到了一片空地，又划了一根火柴，发现我进入了一个巨大的拱形洞穴，里面伸向完全黑暗，超出了我的光线范围。我对它的看法就像在燃烧一根火柴时所能看到的一样多。

‘Necessarily my memory is vague. Great shapes like big machines rose out of the dimness, and cast grotesque black shadows, in which dim spectral Morlocks sheltered from the glare. The place, by the by, was very stuffy and oppressive, and the faint halitus of freshly shed blood was in the air. Some way down the central vista was a little table of white metal, laid with what seemed a meal. The Morlocks at any rate were carnivorous! Even at the time, I remember wondering what large animal could have survived to furnish the red joint I saw. It was all very indistinct: the heavy smell, the big unmeaning shapes, the obscene figures lurking in the shadows, and only waiting for the darkness to come at me again! Then the match burned down, and stung my fingers, and fell, a wriggling red spot in the blackness.
“我的记忆必然是模糊的。像大型机器一样的巨大形状从昏暗中升起，投下怪诞的黑色阴影，暗淡的光谱莫洛克人在阴影中躲避眩光。顺便说一句，这个地方非常闷热和压抑，空气中弥漫着刚流下的鲜血的淡淡恶臭。中央远景的下方有一张白色金属小桌子，上面摆着似乎是一顿饭的东西。无论如何，莫洛克人都是肉食性的！即使在当时，我记得想知道什么大型动物能够幸存下来，以提供我所看到的红色关节。一切都非常模糊：浓重的气味，毫无意义的大形状，潜伏在阴影中的淫秽人物，只等待黑暗再次向我袭来！然后火柴燃尽了，刺痛了我的手指，然后掉了下来，在黑暗中变成了一个蠕动的红点。

‘I have thought since how particularly ill-equipped I was for such an experience. When I had started with the Time Machine, I had started with the absurd assumption that the men of the Future would certainly be infinitely ahead of ourselves in all their appliances. I had come without arms, without medicine, without anything to smoke—at times I missed tobacco frightfully—even without enough matches. If only I had thought of a Kodak! I could have flashed that glimpse of the Underworld in a second, and examined it at leisure. But, as it was, I stood there with only the weapons and the powers that Nature had endowed me with—hands, feet, and teeth; these, and four safety-matches that still remained to me.
“从那以后我就想，我对于这样的经历是多么的不适应。当我开始研究时间机器时，我就开始了一个荒谬的假设，即未来的人在所有设备上肯定会无限领先于我们。我来时没有武器，没有药物，没有任何可吸烟的东西——有时我非常想念烟草——甚至没有足够的火柴。如果我想到柯达就好了！我本可以在一瞬间瞥见地狱，然后悠闲地审视它。但事实上，我站在那儿的手上只有大自然赋予我的武器和力量——手、脚和牙齿；这些，还有四根安全火柴仍然留给我。

‘I was afraid to push my way in among all this machinery in the dark, and it was only with my last glimpse of light I discovered that my store of matches had run low. It had never occurred to me until that moment that there was any need to economize them, and I had wasted almost half the box in astonishing the Upper-worlders, to whom fire was a novelty. Now, as I say, I had four left, and while I stood in the dark, a hand touched mine, lank fingers came feeling over my face, and I was sensible of a peculiar unpleasant odour. I fancied I heard the breathing of a crowd of those dreadful little beings about me. I felt the box of matches in my hand being gently disengaged, and other hands behind me plucking at my clothing. The sense of these unseen creatures examining me was indescribably unpleasant. The sudden realization of my ignorance of their ways of thinking and doing came home to me very vividly in the darkness. I shouted at them as loudly as I could. They started away, and then I could feel them approaching me again. They clutched at me more boldly, whispering odd sounds to each other. I shivered violently, and shouted again rather discordantly. This time they were not so seriously alarmed, and they made a queer laughing noise as they came back at me. I will confess I was horribly frightened. I determined to strike another match and escape under the protection of its glare. I did so, and eking out the flicker with a scrap of paper from my pocket, I made good my retreat to the narrow tunnel. But I had scarce entered this when my light was blown out and in the blackness I could hear the Morlocks rustling like wind among leaves, and pattering like the rain, as they hurried after me.
“我不敢在黑暗中挤进这些机器之中，直到最后一瞥光明时，我才发现我储存的火柴已经所剩无几了。直到那一刻我才意识到有必要节省它们，而且我已经浪费了几乎一半的盒子来让上层世界的人感到惊讶，对他们来说火是新奇的。现在，正如我所说，我还剩下四个，当我站在黑暗中时，一只手触碰了我的手，平直的手指抚摸着我的脸，我感觉到一种特殊的难闻的气味。我感觉自己听到了周围一群可怕的小生物的呼吸声。我感觉到手中的火柴盒被轻轻地松开，身后的另一只手正在拉扯我的衣服。这些看不见的生物审视着我的感觉是难以形容的不愉快。在黑暗中，我突然意识到自己对他们的思维方式和行为方式一无所知。我尽可能大声地对他们喊叫。他们开始走开，然后我能感觉到他们再次靠近我。他们更加大胆地抓住我，互相低声发出奇怪的声音。我猛烈地颤抖起来，再次发出不和谐的叫声。这次他们没有那么严重惊慌，当他们回到我身边时，他们发出了奇怪的笑声。我承认我非常害怕。我决定再划一根火柴，在火光的保护下逃走。我这样做了，然后从口袋里掏出一张纸片来勉强维持住闪烁的光，然后我就撤退到了狭窄的隧道里。但我刚进入这里，我的灯就灭了，在黑暗中，我能听到莫洛克人像风一样在树叶间沙沙作响，像雨一样啪嗒啪嗒地跟在我后面。

‘In a moment I was clutched by several hands, and there was no mistaking that they were trying to haul me back. I struck another light, and waved it in their dazzled faces. You can scarce imagine how nauseatingly inhuman they looked—those pale, chinless faces and great, lidless, pinkish-grey eyes!—as they stared in their blindness and bewilderment. But I did not stay to look, I promise you: I retreated again, and when my second match had ended, I struck my third. It had almost burned through when I reached the opening into the shaft. I lay down on the edge, for the throb of the great pump below made me giddy. Then I felt sideways for the projecting hooks, and, as I did so, my feet were grasped from behind, and I was violently tugged backward. I lit my last match … and it incontinently went out. But I had my hand on the climbing bars now, and, kicking violently, I disengaged myself from the clutches of the Morlocks and was speedily clambering up the shaft, while they stayed peering and blinking up at me: all but one little wretch who followed me for some way, and wellnigh secured my boot as a trophy.
“一瞬间，我被好几只手抓住，毫无疑问他们是想把我拉回来。我又打出了一道光，在他们眼花缭乱的脸上挥舞着。你很难想象他们看起来是多么令人作呕的非人——那些苍白、没有下巴的脸和没有眼皮、粉灰色的大眼睛！——当他们盲目而困惑地凝视着时。但我没有留下来观看，我向你保证：我再次撤退，当我的第二场比赛结束时，我击中了第三场。当我到达竖井的开口时，它几乎已经烧穿了。我躺在边缘，因为下面巨大的水泵的跳动让我头晕。然后我向侧面摸索突出的钩子，当我这样做时，我的脚被从后面抓住，我被猛烈地向后拉。我点燃了最后一根火柴……它失禁地熄灭了。但现在我把手放在攀爬杆上，用力踢腿，从莫洛克人的手中挣脱出来，迅速爬上竖井，而他们却一直盯着我，眨着眼睛看着我：除了一个小可怜虫跟在我后面。我以某种方式，几乎获得了我的靴子作为战利品。

‘That climb seemed interminable to me. With the last twenty or thirty feet of it a deadly nausea came upon me. I had the greatest difficulty in keeping my hold. The last few yards was a frightful struggle against this faintness. Several times my head swam, and I felt all the sensations of falling. At last, however, I got over the well-mouth somehow, and staggered out of the ruin into the blinding sunlight. I fell upon my face. Even the soil smelt sweet and clean. Then I remember Weena kissing my hands and ears, and the voices of others among the Eloi. Then, for a time, I was insensible.
“那段攀登对我来说似乎是无休无止的。在最后二十或三十英尺的路程中，我感到一阵恶心。我很难保持住。最后几码是与这种虚弱的可怕斗争。有几次我的头晕了，我感觉到了坠落的感觉。然而，我最终还是爬过了井口，摇摇晃晃地走出了废墟，走进了刺眼的阳光下。我脸朝下摔倒了。连泥土都闻起来甜美而干净。然后我记得维娜亲吻我的手和耳朵，以及埃洛伊人中其他人的声音。然后，有一段时间，我就失去知觉了。

VII
七

‘Now, indeed, I seemed in a worse case than before. Hitherto, except during my night’s anguish at the loss of the Time Machine, I had felt a sustaining hope of ultimate escape, but that hope was staggered by these new discoveries. Hitherto I had merely thought myself impeded by the childish simplicity of the little people, and by some unknown forces which I had only to understand to overcome; but there was an altogether new element in the sickening quality of the Morlocks—a something inhuman and malign. Instinctively I loathed them. Before, I had felt as a man might feel who had fallen into a pit: my concern was with the pit and how to get out of it. Now I felt like a beast in a trap, whose enemy would come upon him soon.
“现在，确实，我的情况似乎比以前更糟了。到目前为止，除了在失去时间机器的那一夜的痛苦之外，我一直对最终逃脱抱有持续的希望，但这种希望被这些新发现所打破。到目前为止，我只是认为自己受到了小人物的孩子般的纯真和一些未知的力量的阻碍，而我只需要了解这些力量就可以克服它们；但莫洛克人令人作呕的品质中有一种全新的元素——一种不人道和邪恶的东西。我本能地厌恶他们。以前，我的感觉就像一个人掉进坑里一样：我关心的是这个坑以及如何摆脱它。现在我感觉自己就像一头陷入陷阱的野兽，敌人很快就会袭击他。

‘The enemy I dreaded may surprise you. It was the darkness of the new moon. Weena had put this into my head by some at first incomprehensible remarks about the Dark Nights. It was not now such a very difficult problem to guess what the coming Dark Nights might mean. The moon was on the wane: each night there was a longer interval of darkness. And I now understood to some slight degree at least the reason of the fear of the little Upper-world people for the dark. I wondered vaguely what foul villainy it might be that the Morlocks did under the new moon. I felt pretty sure now that my second hypothesis was all wrong. The Upper-world people might once have been the favoured aristocracy, and the Morlocks their mechanical servants: but that had long since passed away. The two species that had resulted from the evolution of man were sliding down towards, or had already arrived at, an altogether new relationship. The Eloi, like the Carolingian kings, had decayed to a mere beautiful futility. They still possessed the earth on sufferance: since the Morlocks, subterranean for innumerable generations, had come at last to find the daylit surface intolerable. And the Morlocks made their garments, I inferred, and maintained them in their habitual needs, perhaps through the survival of an old habit of service. They did it as a standing horse paws with his foot, or as a man enjoys killing animals in sport: because ancient and departed necessities had impressed it on the organism. But, clearly, the old order was already in part reversed. The Nemesis of the delicate ones was creeping on apace. Ages ago, thousands of generations ago, man had thrust his brother man out of the ease and the sunshine. And now that brother was coming back changed! Already the Eloi had begun to learn one old lesson anew. They were becoming reacquainted with Fear. And suddenly there came into my head the memory of the meat I had seen in the Under-world. It seemed odd how it floated into my mind: not stirred up as it were by the current of my meditations, but coming in almost like a question from outside. I tried to recall the form of it. I had a vague sense of something familiar, but I could not tell what it was at the time.
“我害怕的敌人可能会让你大吃一惊。那是新月的黑暗。威娜通过一些关于黑夜的起初难以理解的评论将这一点灌输到了我的脑海中。现在猜测即将到来的黑夜可能意味着什么并不是一个非常困难的问题。月色渐亏：每晚的黑暗时间都更长。现在我至少在某种程度上理解了上层世界的小人物害怕黑暗的原因。我隐隐约约地想，莫洛克人在新月之下会做出什么肮脏的恶行。我现在非常确定我的第二个假设是完全错误的。上层世界的人民可能曾经是受宠的贵族，而莫洛克人则是他们的机械仆人：但这早已成为过去。人类进化产生的两个物种正在滑向或已经达到一种全新的关系。埃洛伊人，就像加洛林王朝的国王一样，已经衰落到纯粹的美丽徒劳。他们仍然以忍耐的方式占有地球：因为莫洛克人在地下生活了无数代，最终发现白天的地面无法忍受。我推断，莫洛克人制作了他们的衣服，并根据他们的习惯需要来保养它们，也许是通过保留了古老的服务习惯。他们这样做就像一匹站着的马用脚掌，或者就像一个人喜欢在运动中杀死动物：因为古老的和已逝去的必需品已经在有机体上留下了深刻的印象。但显然，旧秩序已经部分逆转。脆弱者的复仇女神正在快速爬行。很久以前，几千代以前，人类已经将他的兄弟人类从安逸和阳光中赶走了。现在哥哥回来了，变了！ 埃洛伊人已经开始重新学习一项古老的教训。他们开始重新认识恐惧。突然，我的脑海里浮现出我在地狱里看到的肉的记忆。它如何浮现在我的脑海中似乎很奇怪：它并没有被我的冥想潮流所搅动，而是几乎像一个来自外部的问题一样进入我的脑海。我试着回忆它的形式。我隐约有一种熟悉的感觉，但当时又说不出来那是什么。

‘Still, however helpless the little people in the presence of their mysterious Fear, I was differently constituted. I came out of this age of ours, this ripe prime of the human race, when Fear does not paralyse and mystery has lost its terrors. I at least would defend myself. Without further delay I determined to make myself arms and a fastness where I might sleep. With that refuge as a base, I could face this strange world with some of that confidence I had lost in realizing to what creatures night by night I lay exposed. I felt I could never sleep again until my bed was secure from them. I shuddered with horror to think how they must already have examined me.
“尽管如此，无论这些小人物在神秘的恐惧面前多么无助，我的构成却有所不同。我来自我们这个时代，这个人类成熟的鼎盛时期，此时恐惧并未使人瘫痪，神秘也不再令人恐惧。我至少会为自己辩护。我决定不再拖延，为自己准备一个可以睡觉的地方。有了这个避难所作为基地，我可以带着一些信心面对这个陌生的世界，而我在意识到自己夜复一夜暴露在哪些生物面前时已经失去了信心。我觉得除非他们把我的床安全地固定住，否则我再也无法入睡。一想到他们一定已经对我进行了检查，我就惊恐万状。

‘I wandered during the afternoon along the valley of the Thames, but found nothing that commended itself to my mind as inaccessible. All the buildings and trees seemed easily practicable to such dexterous climbers as the Morlocks, to judge by their wells, must be. Then the tall pinnacles of the Palace of Green Porcelain and the polished gleam of its walls came back to my memory; and in the evening, taking Weena like a child upon my shoulder, I went up the hills towards the south-west. The distance, I had reckoned, was seven or eight miles, but it must have been nearer eighteen. I had first seen the place on a moist afternoon when distances are deceptively diminished. In addition, the heel of one of my shoes was loose, and a nail was working through the sole—they were comfortable old shoes I wore about indoors—so that I was lame. And it was already long past sunset when I came in sight of the palace, silhouetted black against the pale yellow of the sky.
“整个下午，我沿着泰晤士河谷漫步，但没有发现任何在我看来难以到达的地方。对于像莫洛克人这样灵巧的登山者来说，所有的建筑物和树木似乎都很容易实用，从他们的井来判断，一定是这样。然后，青瓷宫殿的高耸尖顶和闪闪发亮的墙壁又浮现在我的记忆中。晚上，我像个孩子一样把维娜扛在肩上，向西南方向爬上山。我估计这段距离有七八英里，但实际应该接近十八英里。我第一次看到这个地方是在一个潮湿的下午，当时距离似乎缩短了。另外，我的一只鞋的后跟松了，一颗钉子穿过鞋底——那是我在室内穿的舒适的旧鞋——所以我瘸了。当我看到宫殿时，已经是日落很久了，宫殿的轮廓在淡黄色的天空中呈现出黑色的轮廓。

‘Weena had been hugely delighted when I began to carry her, but after a while she desired me to let her down, and ran along by the side of me, occasionally darting off on either hand to pick flowers to stick in my pockets. My pockets had always puzzled Weena, but at the last she had concluded that they were an eccentric kind of vase for floral decoration. At least she utilized them for that purpose. And that reminds me! In changing my jacket I found …’
“当我开始抱她时，威娜非常高兴，但过了一会儿，她希望我让她放下来，就在我身边跑着，偶尔会用两只手飞快地摘花插在我的口袋里。我的口袋一直让维娜感到困惑，但最后她得出的结论是，它们是一种奇怪的花卉装饰花瓶。至少她利用它们来达到这个目的。这让我想起了！在换夹克时我发现……”

The Time Traveller paused, put his hand into his pocket, and silently placed two withered flowers, not unlike very large white mallows, upon the little table. Then he resumed his narrative.
时间旅行者停了下来，把手伸进口袋，默默地将两朵枯萎的花朵放在小桌子上，花朵就像很大的白色锦葵一样。然后他又继续叙述。

‘As the hush of evening crept over the world and we proceeded over the hill crest towards Wimbledon, Weena grew tired and wanted to return to the house of grey stone. But I pointed out the distant pinnacles of the Palace of Green Porcelain to her, and contrived to make her understand that we were seeking a refuge there from her Fear. You know that great pause that comes upon things before the dusk? Even the breeze stops in the trees. To me there is always an air of expectation about that evening stillness. The sky was clear, remote, and empty save for a few horizontal bars far down in the sunset. Well, that night the expectation took the colour of my fears. In that darkling calm my senses seemed preternaturally sharpened. I fancied I could even feel the hollowness of the ground beneath my feet: could, indeed, almost see through it the Morlocks on their ant-hill going hither and thither and waiting for the dark. In my excitement I fancied that they would receive my invasion of their burrows as a declaration of war. And why had they taken my Time Machine?
“当夜晚的寂静笼罩着世界，我们翻过山顶前往温布尔登时，维娜感到累了，想回到灰色石头的房子里。但我向她指出了远处青瓷宫殿的尖顶，并设法让她明白我们正在那里寻求庇护，以逃避她的恐惧。你知道黄昏前事物的巨大停顿吗？就连微风也停在树林里。对我来说，总是对那个夜晚的寂静充满期待。天空晴朗、遥远、空旷，只有夕阳下远处的几根单杠。好吧，那天晚上，我的期待变成了恐惧。在那种黑暗的平静中，我的感觉似乎异常敏锐。我什至觉得我脚下的地面是空虚的：事实上，我几乎可以透过它看到莫洛克人在他们的蚁丘上走来走去，等待着天黑。在我的兴奋中，我想象着他们会把我入侵他们的洞穴视为宣战。他们为什么拿走了我的时间机器？

‘So we went on in the quiet, and the twilight deepened into night. The clear blue of the distance faded, and one star after another came out. The ground grew dim and the trees black. Weena’s fears and her fatigue grew upon her. I took her in my arms and talked to her and caressed her. Then, as the darkness grew deeper, she put her arms round my neck, and, closing her eyes, tightly pressed her face against my shoulder. So we went down a long slope into a valley, and there in the dimness I almost walked into a little river. This I waded, and went up the opposite side of the valley, past a number of sleeping houses, and by a statue—a Faun, or some such figure, MINUS the head. Here too were acacias. So far I had seen nothing of the Morlocks, but it was yet early in the night, and the darker hours before the old moon rose were still to come.
‘于是我们安静地继续前行，暮色渐渐深入夜色。远处清澈的蓝色褪去，一颗又一颗的星星显露出来。地面变得暗淡，树木变黑。维娜的恐惧和疲劳越来越强烈。我把她抱在怀里，和她说话，爱抚她。然后，随着黑暗越来越深，她用双臂搂住我的脖子，闭上眼睛，把脸紧紧地贴在我的肩膀上。于是我们走下一条长长的斜坡，进入一个山谷，在昏暗中我差点走进一条小河。我涉水而上，爬上山谷的另一侧，经过许多睡觉的房子，然后经过一尊雕像——一个牧神，或类似的人物，去掉了头。这里也有金合欢树。到目前为止，我还没有看到莫洛克人，但现在还很早，旧月升起前的黑暗时刻还没有到来。

‘From the brow of the next hill I saw a thick wood spreading wide and black before me. I hesitated at this. I could see no end to it, either to the right or the left. Feeling tired—my feet, in particular, were very sore—I carefully lowered Weena from my shoulder as I halted, and sat down upon the turf. I could no longer see the Palace of Green Porcelain, and I was in doubt of my direction. I looked into the thickness of the wood and thought of what it might hide. Under that dense tangle of branches one would be out of sight of the stars. Even were there no other lurking danger—a danger I did not care to let my imagination loose upon—there would still be all the roots to stumble over and the tree-boles to strike against.
“从下一座山的山脊上，我看到一片茂密的树林在我面前蔓延开来。对此我犹豫了。我看不到它的尽头，无论是向右还是向左。我感觉很累——尤其是我的脚，非常酸痛——我停下来，小心翼翼地将维娜从肩上放下，然后坐在草坪上。我再也看不到青瓷宫了，我也迷失了方向。我观察了木头的厚度，思考它可能隐藏着什么。在那密密麻麻的树枝下，星星就看不见了。即使没有其他潜在的危险——一种我不愿意发挥想象力的危险——仍然会有所有的树根被绊倒，所有的树干都被撞到。

‘I was very tired, too, after the excitements of the day; so I decided that I would not face it, but would pass the night upon the open hill.
“经过一天的兴奋之后，我也很累；所以我决定不去面对它，而是在空旷的山上过夜。

‘Weena, I was glad to find, was fast asleep. I carefully wrapped her in my jacket, and sat down beside her to wait for the moonrise. The hill-side was quiet and deserted, but from the black of the wood there came now and then a stir of living things. Above me shone the stars, for the night was very clear. I felt a certain sense of friendly comfort in their twinkling. All the old constellations had gone from the sky, however: that slow movement which is imperceptible in a hundred human lifetimes, had long since rearranged them in unfamiliar groupings. But the Milky Way, it seemed to me, was still the same tattered streamer of star-dust as of yore. Southward (as I judged it) was a very bright red star that was new to me; it was even more splendid than our own green Sirius. And amid all these scintillating points of light one bright planet shone kindly and steadily like the face of an old friend.
“我很高兴地发现，维娜正在熟睡。”我小心翼翼地把她裹在外套里，坐在她身边等待月出。山坡上安静而荒凉，但黑色的树林里时不时传来一些生物的骚动。我的头顶上闪烁着星星，因为夜晚非常晴朗。在它们的闪烁中，我感受到了某种友好的安慰。然而，所有古老的星座都已从天空中消失了：那在一百个人的一生中都难以察觉的缓慢运动，早已将它们重新排列成陌生的组合。但在我看来，银河系仍然是和以前一样破烂的星尘流。向南（据我判断）是一颗非常明亮的红色星星，对我来说是新的；它甚至比我们自己的绿色天狼星还要灿烂。在所有这些闪烁的光点中，一颗明亮的行星像一位老朋友的脸一样温柔而稳定地闪烁着光芒。

‘Looking at these stars suddenly dwarfed my own troubles and all the gravities of terrestrial life. I thought of their unfathomable distance, and the slow inevitable drift of their movements out of the unknown past into the unknown future. I thought of the great precessional cycle that the pole of the earth describes. Only forty times had that silent revolution occurred during all the years that I had traversed. And during these few revolutions all the activity, all the traditions, the complex organizations, the nations, languages, literatures, aspirations, even the mere memory of Man as I knew him, had been swept out of existence. Instead were these frail creatures who had forgotten their high ancestry, and the white Things of which I went in terror. Then I thought of the Great Fear that was between the two species, and for the first time, with a sudden shiver, came the clear knowledge of what the meat I had seen might be. Yet it was too horrible! I looked at little Weena sleeping beside me, her face white and starlike under the stars, and forthwith dismissed the thought.
“看着这些星星，我自己的烦恼和地球生命的所有重力突然变得相形见绌。我想到了他们深不可测的距离，以及他们的动作不可避免地缓慢地从未知的过去进入未知的未来。我想到了地球极所描述的大进动周期。在我走过的这些年里，这种无声的革命只发生过四十次。在这几次革命中，所有的活动、所有的传统、复杂的组织、民族、语言、文学、愿望，甚至我所认识的人类的记忆，都被扫除了。取而代之的是这些脆弱的生物，他们忘记了自己的高贵血统，还有那些让我感到恐惧的白色生物。然后我想到了这两个物种之间的巨大恐惧，我第一次在突然的颤抖中清楚地知道我所看到的肉可能是什么。但这也太可怕了！我看着睡在我身边的小维娜，她的脸在星空下惨白如星星，我立即打消了这个念头。

‘Through that long night I held my mind off the Morlocks as well as I could, and whiled away the time by trying to fancy I could find signs of the old constellations in the new confusion. The sky kept very clear, except for a hazy cloud or so. No doubt I dozed at times. Then, as my vigil wore on, came a faintness in the eastward sky, like the reflection of some colourless fire, and the old moon rose, thin and peaked and white. And close behind, and overtaking it, and overflowing it, the dawn came, pale at first, and then growing pink and warm. No Morlocks had approached us. Indeed, I had seen none upon the hill that night. And in the confidence of renewed day it almost seemed to me that my fear had been unreasonable. I stood up and found my foot with the loose heel swollen at the ankle and painful under the heel; so I sat down again, took off my shoes, and flung them away.
“在那漫长的夜晚，我尽可能地让自己的思绪远离莫洛克人，并通过幻想自己能在新的混乱中找到旧星座的迹象来消磨时间。天空一直很晴朗，除了一片朦胧的云彩。毫无疑问，我有时会打瞌睡。然后，随着我的守夜时间的推移，东方的天空出现了一丝微弱的光芒，就像某种无色火焰的反射，古老的月亮升起，薄薄的，尖尖的，白色的。黎明紧随其后，超越了它，淹没了它，黎明来了，起初是苍白的，然后变成粉红色和温暖的。没有莫洛克人接近我们。事实上，那天晚上我在山上没有看到任何人。面对新的一天，我充满信心，几乎觉得我的恐惧是不合理的。我站起来，发现我的脚跟松了，脚踝处肿胀，脚跟下方疼痛；于是我又坐下来，脱下鞋子，扔掉。

‘I awakened Weena, and we went down into the wood, now green and pleasant instead of black and forbidding. We found some fruit wherewith to break our fast. We soon met others of the dainty ones, laughing and dancing in the sunlight as though there was no such thing in nature as the night. And then I thought once more of the meat that I had seen. I felt assured now of what it was, and from the bottom of my heart I pitied this last feeble rill from the great flood of humanity. Clearly, at some time in the Long-Ago of human decay the Morlocks’ food had run short. Possibly they had lived on rats and such-like vermin. Even now man is far less discriminating and exclusive in his food than he was—far less than any monkey. His prejudice against human flesh is no deep-seated instinct. And so these inhuman sons of men——! I tried to look at the thing in a scientific spirit. After all, they were less human and more remote than our cannibal ancestors of three or four thousand years ago. And the intelligence that would have made this state of things a torment had gone. Why should I trouble myself? These Eloi were mere fatted cattle, which the ant-like Morlocks preserved and preyed upon—probably saw to the breeding of. And there was Weena dancing at my side!
“我叫醒了维娜，我们走进了树林，树林里不再是黑色的、令人生畏的，而是绿色宜人的。我们找到了一些水果来开斋。我们很快就遇到了其他可爱的人，他们在阳光下欢笑、跳舞，仿佛大自然中不存在夜晚这样的东西。然后我再次想起我所看到的肉。我现在确信那是什么，并从心底里怜悯这人类大洪水中最后一条微弱的小溪。显然，在很久以前人类衰败的某个时期，莫洛克人的食物已经短缺。它们可能以老鼠和类似害虫为食。即使是现在，人类在食物方面的歧视性和排他性也远不如以前——远低于任何猴子。他对人肉的偏见并不是根深蒂固的本能。所以这些非人的人类之子——！我试图以科学的精神来看待这件事。毕竟，他们比我们三四千年前的食人祖先更不属于人类，也更遥远。而原本会让这种情况成为一种折磨的智慧已经消失了。我何必为难自己呢？这些埃洛伊人只不过是肥牛，像蚂蚁一样的莫洛克人保存并捕食它们——很可能负责它们的繁殖。还有维娜在我身边跳舞！

‘Then I tried to preserve myself from the horror that was coming upon me, by regarding it as a rigorous punishment of human selfishness. Man had been content to live in ease and delight upon the labours of his fellow-man, had taken Necessity as his watchword and excuse, and in the fullness of time Necessity had come home to him. I even tried a Carlyle-like scorn of this wretched aristocracy in decay. But this attitude of mind was impossible. However great their intellectual degradation, the Eloi had kept too much of the human form not to claim my sympathy, and to make me perforce a sharer in their degradation and their Fear.
“然后我试图保护自己免受即将来临的恐惧，将其视为对人类自私的严厉惩罚。人类满足于靠同胞的劳动过上安逸和快乐的生活，把“必然性”作为自己的口号和借口，到了时机成熟，“必然性”就回到了他的身边。我什至尝试过卡莱尔式的蔑视这个腐朽的可怜贵族。但这种心态是不可能的。无论埃洛伊人的智力退化有多么严重，他们保留了太多的人类形态，无法不引起我的同情，也让我不得不分享他们的退化和恐惧。

‘I had at that time very vague ideas as to the course I should pursue. My first was to secure some safe place of refuge, and to make myself such arms of metal or stone as I could contrive. That necessity was immediate. In the next place, I hoped to procure some means of fire, so that I should have the weapon of a torch at hand, for nothing, I knew, would be more efficient against these Morlocks. Then I wanted to arrange some contrivance to break open the doors of bronze under the White Sphinx. I had in mind a battering ram. I had a persuasion that if I could enter those doors and carry a blaze of light before me I should discover the Time Machine and escape. I could not imagine the Morlocks were strong enough to move it far away. Weena I had resolved to bring with me to our own time. And turning such schemes over in my mind I pursued our way towards the building which my fancy had chosen as our dwelling.
“当时我对自己应该走的道路有非常模糊的想法。我的首要任务是找到一个安全的避难所，并尽我所能为自己打造金属或石头的手臂。这种必要性是迫在眉睫的。接下来，我希望获得一些火力工具，这样我手边就有火炬这样的武器，因为我知道，对付这些莫洛克人，没有什么比这更有效的了。然后我想安排一些装置来打开白色狮身人面像下方的青铜门。我想到的是攻城锤。我坚信，如果我能进入那些门并在我面前携带一束光，我就会发现时间机器并逃脱。我无法想象莫洛克人有足够的力量将它移到很远的地方。我决定带上威娜一起去属于我们自己的时代。我在心里反复思考这些计划，朝我的想象所选择作为我们住所的那栋建筑走去。

VIII
八

‘I found the Palace of Green Porcelain, when we approached it about noon, deserted and falling into ruin. Only ragged vestiges of glass remained in its windows, and great sheets of the green facing had fallen away from the corroded metallic framework. It lay very high upon a turfy down, and looking north-eastward before I entered it, I was surprised to see a large estuary, or even creek, where I judged Wandsworth and Battersea must once have been. I thought then—though I never followed up the thought—of what might have happened, or might be happening, to the living things in the sea.
“当我们中午接近青瓷宫时，我发现了它，它已经荒废了，变成了废墟。窗户上只剩下了破烂的玻璃痕迹，大片的绿色饰面已经从腐蚀的金属框架上脱落下来。它位于很高的草皮丘陵上，在我进入之前向东北望去，我惊讶地看到了一个大河口，甚至是小溪，我判断旺兹沃斯和巴特西一定曾经在那里。当时我想到——尽管我从未继续思考——海洋中的生物可能发生了什么，或者可能正在发生什么。

‘The material of the Palace proved on examination to be indeed porcelain, and along the face of it I saw an inscription in some unknown character. I thought, rather foolishly, that Weena might help me to interpret this, but I only learned that the bare idea of writing had never entered her head. She always seemed to me, I fancy, more human than she was, perhaps because her affection was so human.
“经过检查，宫殿的材料证明确实是瓷器，沿着它的表面，我看到了一些未知字符的铭文。我相当愚蠢地认为维娜可能会帮助我解释这一点，但我才知道，写作的纯粹想法从未进入过她的头脑。我想，在我看来，她总是比她本身更人性化，也许是因为她的感情是如此人性化。

‘Within the big valves of the door—which were open and broken—we found, instead of the customary hall, a long gallery lit by many side windows. At the first glance I was reminded of a museum. The tiled floor was thick with dust, and a remarkable array of miscellaneous objects was shrouded in the same grey covering. Then I perceived, standing strange and gaunt in the centre of the hall, what was clearly the lower part of a huge skeleton. I recognized by the oblique feet that it was some extinct creature after the fashion of the Megatherium. The skull and the upper bones lay beside it in the thick dust, and in one place, where rain-water had dropped through a leak in the roof, the thing itself had been worn away. Further in the gallery was the huge skeleton barrel of a Brontosaurus. My museum hypothesis was confirmed. Going towards the side I found what appeared to be sloping shelves, and clearing away the thick dust, I found the old familiar glass cases of our own time. But they must have been air-tight to judge from the fair preservation of some of their contents.
“在门的大阀门里——门打开了，而且已经坏了——我们发现，不是通常的大厅，而是一条长长的走廊，有许多侧窗照亮。第一眼让我想起了博物馆。瓷砖地板上积满了厚厚的灰尘，大量杂七杂八的物品也被同样的灰色覆盖物所笼罩。然后我发现，在大厅中央，奇怪而憔悴地站着一具巨大骷髅的下半部分。我从斜脚上认出这是某种仿照大地懒的灭绝生物。头骨和上骨躺在它旁边，埋在厚厚的灰尘中，在一个地方，雨水从屋顶的缝隙中掉下来，东西本身已经被磨损了。画廊的更远处是雷龙的巨大骨架桶。我的博物馆假设得到了证实。走到一旁，我发现了一个看起来像是倾斜的架子，清除掉厚厚的灰尘，我发现了我们那个时代熟悉的旧玻璃柜。但从其中一些内容的保存情况来看，它们肯定是无懈可击的。

‘Clearly we stood among the ruins of some latter-day South Kensington! Here, apparently, was the Palaeontological Section, and a very splendid array of fossils it must have been, though the inevitable process of decay that had been staved off for a time, and had, through the extinction of bacteria and fungi, lost ninety-nine hundredths of its force, was nevertheless, with extreme sureness if with extreme slowness at work again upon all its treasures. Here and there I found traces of the little people in the shape of rare fossils broken to pieces or threaded in strings upon reeds. And the cases had in some instances been bodily removed—by the Morlocks as I judged. The place was very silent. The thick dust deadened our footsteps. Weena, who had been rolling a sea urchin down the sloping glass of a case, presently came, as I stared about me, and very quietly took my hand and stood beside me.
“显然我们站在现代南肯辛顿的废墟之中！显然，这里就是古生物学区，而且肯定有一系列非常精彩的化石，尽管不可避免的腐烂过程暂时被推迟了，并且通过细菌和真菌的灭绝，失去了九十个——然而，其百分之九的力量，虽然极其缓慢，但却极其确定地再次作用于它的所有宝藏。我到处都发现了小人物的踪迹，它们的形状像稀有化石，要么被打碎，要么被串在芦苇上。在某些情况下，这些箱子已经被实体移走了——据我判断，是莫洛克人干的。现场非常安静。厚厚的灰尘使我们的脚步变得迟钝。当我环顾四周时，威娜正在把海胆滚下箱子的斜玻璃，她很快就过来了，静静地握住我的手，站在我身边。

‘And at first I was so much surprised by this ancient monument of an intellectual age, that I gave no thought to the possibilities it presented. Even my preoccupation about the Time Machine receded a little from my mind.
“起初，我对这座知识时代的古老纪念碑感到非常惊讶，以至于我没有想到它所带来的可能性。甚至我对时间机器的关注也从我的脑海中消失了一点。

‘To judge from the size of the place, this Palace of Green Porcelain had a great deal more in it than a Gallery of Palaeontology; possibly historical galleries; it might be, even a library! To me, at least in my present circumstances, these would be vastly more interesting than this spectacle of oldtime geology in decay. Exploring, I found another short gallery running transversely to the first. This appeared to be devoted to minerals, and the sight of a block of sulphur set my mind running on gunpowder. But I could find no saltpeter; indeed, no nitrates of any kind. Doubtless they had deliquesced ages ago. Yet the sulphur hung in my mind, and set up a train of thinking. As for the rest of the contents of that gallery, though on the whole they were the best preserved of all I saw, I had little interest. I am no specialist in mineralogy, and I went on down a very ruinous aisle running parallel to the first hall I had entered. Apparently this section had been devoted to natural history, but everything had long since passed out of recognition. A few shrivelled and blackened vestiges of what had once been stuffed animals, desiccated mummies in jars that had once held spirit, a brown dust of departed plants: that was all! I was sorry for that, because I should have been glad to trace the patent readjustments by which the conquest of animated nature had been attained. Then we came to a gallery of simply colossal proportions, but singularly ill-lit, the floor of it running downward at a slight angle from the end at which I entered. At intervals white globes hung from the ceiling—many of them cracked and smashed—which suggested that originally the place had been artificially lit. Here I was more in my element, for rising on either side of me were the huge bulks of big machines, all greatly corroded and many broken down, but some still fairly complete. You know I have a certain weakness for mechanism, and I was inclined to linger among these; the more so as for the most part they had the interest of puzzles, and I could make only the vaguest guesses at what they were for. I fancied that if I could solve their puzzles I should find myself in possession of powers that might be of use against the Morlocks.
“从规模来看，这座青瓷宫殿比古生物画廊要丰富得多；可能是历史画廊；甚至可能是图书馆！对我来说，至少在我目前的情况下，这些比旧时代地质学腐烂的景象有趣得多。探索中，我发现了另一个与第一个画廊横向延伸的短画廊。这似乎专门用于矿物，看到一块硫磺让我的思绪开始转向火药。但我找不到硝石；事实上，没有任何种类的硝酸盐。毫无疑问，它们很久以前就已经潮解了。然而硫磺却萦绕在我的脑海里，并引发了一系列的思考。至于那个画廊的其余内容，虽然总体上是我所看到的保存最完好的，但我没什么兴趣。我不是矿物学专家，我沿着一条与我进入的第一个大厅平行的非常破败的过道继续前行。显然，这一部分专门讨论了自然历史，但一切早已面目全非。一些曾经是毛绒玩具的枯萎发黑的痕迹，曾经装过酒精的罐子里的干燥木乃伊，死去植物的棕色灰尘：仅此而已！我对此感到遗憾，因为我本应该很高兴追踪专利的调整，通过这些调整，征服了动画自然。然后我们来到了一个画廊，它的比例非常巨大，但光线异常昏暗，它的地板从我进入的一端以一个微小的角度向下延伸。天花板上时不时地挂着一些白色的球体——其中许多球体都破裂了、破碎了——这表明这个地方最初是人工照明的。 在这里，我更得心应手，因为在我的两侧升起的是巨大的大型机器，所有机器都严重腐蚀，许多已经损坏，但有些仍然相当完整。你知道我对机制有一定的弱点，我倾向于在其中徘徊；更重要的是，他们大多对谜题感兴趣，而我只能对它们的用途做出最模糊的猜测。我想，如果我能解决他们的谜题，我就会发现自己拥有了可能对莫洛克人有用的力量。

‘Suddenly Weena came very close to my side. So suddenly that she startled me. Had it not been for her I do not think I should have noticed that the floor of the gallery sloped at all. [Footnote: It may be, of course, that the floor did not slope, but that the museum was built into the side of a hill.-ED.] The end I had come in at was quite above ground, and was lit by rare slit-like windows. As you went down the length, the ground came up against these windows, until at last there was a pit like the ‘area’ of a London house before each, and only a narrow line of daylight at the top. I went slowly along, puzzling about the machines, and had been too intent upon them to notice the gradual diminution of the light, until Weena’s increasing apprehensions drew my attention. Then I saw that the gallery ran down at last into a thick darkness. I hesitated, and then, as I looked round me, I saw that the dust was less abundant and its surface less even. Further away towards the dimness, it appeared to be broken by a number of small narrow footprints. My sense of the immediate presence of the Morlocks revived at that. I felt that I was wasting my time in the academic examination of machinery. I called to mind that it was already far advanced in the afternoon, and that I had still no weapon, no refuge, and no means of making a fire. And then down in the remote blackness of the gallery I heard a peculiar pattering, and the same odd noises I had heard down the well.
“突然，维娜靠近我身边。突然，她吓了我一跳。如果不是她，我想我根本不会注意到画廊的地板是倾斜的。 [脚注：当然，地板可能没有倾斜，但博物馆建在山坡上。-ED。]我进来的那一端完全高于地面，并且被罕见的狭缝状窗户。当你沿着这条路走下去时，地面会碰到这些窗户，直到最后在每扇窗户前面都有一个像伦敦房屋“区域”一样的坑，顶部只有一条狭窄的日光。我慢慢地走着，对这些机器感到困惑，因为太专注于它们而没有注意到光线逐渐减弱，直到维娜日益增加的忧虑引起了我的注意。然后我看到走廊终于陷入了浓浓的黑暗之中。我犹豫了一下，然后，当我环顾四周时，我发现灰尘少了，表面也不太平坦。再往昏暗的方向走去，似乎被许多细小的脚印所打破。这时，我再次感觉到莫洛克人就在眼前。我觉得我在机械学术考试上浪费了时间。我想起下午已经很晚了，我还没有武器，没有避难所，也没有生火的办法。然后，在走廊深处的黑暗中，我听到了一种奇怪的拍打声，和我在井下听到的同样奇怪的声音。

‘I took Weena’s hand. Then, struck with a sudden idea, I left her and turned to a machine from which projected a lever not unlike those in a signal-box. Clambering upon the stand, and grasping this lever in my hands, I put all my weight upon it sideways. Suddenly Weena, deserted in the central aisle, began to whimper. I had judged the strength of the lever pretty correctly, for it snapped after a minute’s strain, and I rejoined her with a mace in my hand more than sufficient, I judged, for any Morlock skull I might encounter. And I longed very much to kill a Morlock or so. Very inhuman, you may think, to want to go killing one’s own descendants! But it was impossible, somehow, to feel any humanity in the things. Only my disinclination to leave Weena, and a persuasion that if I began to slake my thirst for murder my Time Machine might suffer, restrained me from going straight down the gallery and killing the brutes I heard.
“我握住了维娜的手。然后，我突然有了一个想法，离开了她，转向一台机器，机器上伸出了一个杠杆，与信号箱中的杠杆没什么不同。我爬上架子，双手握住这个杠杆，将所有的重量放在它的侧面。突然，被遗弃在中央过道上的维娜开始呜咽起来。我对杠杆的强度判断得相当正确，因为一分钟的拉力后它就折断了，我手里拿着狼牙棒重新加入了她，我判断，对于我可能遇到的任何莫洛克头骨来说，这已经足够了。我非常渴望杀死一个莫洛克人左右。你可能会认为，想要杀死自己的后代是非常不人道的！但不知何故，我们不可能在这些事物中感受到任何人性。只是我不愿意离开维娜，而且我相信，如果我开始满足谋杀的渴望，我的时间机器可能会受到影响，这才阻止我直接沿着画廊杀死我听到的野蛮人。

‘Well, mace in one hand and Weena in the other, I went out of that gallery and into another and still larger one, which at the first glance reminded me of a military chapel hung with tattered flags. The brown and charred rags that hung from the sides of it, I presently recognized as the decaying vestiges of books. They had long since dropped to pieces, and every semblance of print had left them. But here and there were warped boards and cracked metallic clasps that told the tale well enough. Had I been a literary man I might, perhaps, have moralized upon the futility of all ambition. But as it was, the thing that struck me with keenest force was the enormous waste of labour to which this sombre wilderness of rotting paper testified. At the time I will confess that I thought chiefly of the PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS and my own seventeen papers upon physical optics.
“好吧，我一手拿着狼牙棒，另一只手拿着维娜，走出那个画廊，走进另一个更大的画廊，乍一看，它让我想起了一座悬挂着破烂旗帜的军事教堂。挂在它两侧的棕色和烧焦的破布，我很快就认出是书籍腐烂的痕迹。它们早已化为碎片，所有的痕迹都消失了。但到处都有扭曲的木板和破裂的金属扣，足以说明问题。如果我是一个文学家，我也许会说所有野心都是徒劳的。但事实上，最让我震惊的是巨大的劳动力浪费，这片阴暗的荒野腐烂的纸张证明了这一点。我承认当时我主要想到的是《哲学汇刊》和我自己的十七篇关于物理光学的论文。

‘Then, going up a broad staircase, we came to what may once have been a gallery of technical chemistry. And here I had not a little hope of useful discoveries. Except at one end where the roof had collapsed, this gallery was well preserved. I went eagerly to every unbroken case. And at last, in one of the really air-tight cases, I found a box of matches. Very eagerly I tried them. They were perfectly good. They were not even damp. I turned to Weena. ‘Dance,’ I cried to her in her own tongue. For now I had a weapon indeed against the horrible creatures we feared. And so, in that derelict museum, upon the thick soft carpeting of dust, to Weena’s huge delight, I solemnly performed a kind of composite dance, whistling THE LAND OF THE LEAL as cheerfully as I could. In part it was a modest CANCAN, in part a step dance, in part a skirt-dance (so far as my tail-coat permitted), and in part original. For I am naturally inventive, as you know.
“然后，走上宽阔的楼梯，我们来到了曾经可能是技术化学画廊的地方。在这里我对有用的发现抱有很大的希望。除了一端屋顶倒塌外，这座画廊保存完好。我热切地去看每一个未破的案件。最后，在一个密闭的盒子里，我找到了一盒火柴。我非常渴望尝试它们。他们非常好。它们甚至都不湿。我转向维娜。 “跳舞吧，”我用她自己的语言对她喊道。现在我确实拥有了对抗我们所恐惧的可怕生物的武器。于是，在那个废弃的博物馆里，在厚厚的、柔软的灰尘地毯上，让维娜非常高兴的是，我庄严地表演了一种复合舞蹈，尽可能快活地吹着《莱尔之国》的口哨。它部分是一种朴素的康康舞，部分是踢踏舞，部分是裙舞（只要我的燕尾服允许），还有部分是原创的。因为我天生就有创造力，如你所知。

‘Now, I still think that for this box of matches to have escaped the wear of time for immemorial years was a most strange, as for me it was a most fortunate thing. Yet, oddly enough, I found a far unlikelier substance, and that was camphor. I found it in a sealed jar, that by chance, I suppose, had been really hermetically sealed. I fancied at first that it was paraffin wax, and smashed the glass accordingly. But the odour of camphor was unmistakable. In the universal decay this volatile substance had chanced to survive, perhaps through many thousands of centuries. It reminded me of a sepia painting I had once seen done from the ink of a fossil Belemnite that must have perished and become fossilized millions of years ago. I was about to throw it away, but I remembered that it was inflammable and burned with a good bright flame—was, in fact, an excellent candle—and I put it in my pocket. I found no explosives, however, nor any means of breaking down the bronze doors. As yet my iron crowbar was the most helpful thing I had chanced upon. Nevertheless I left that gallery greatly elated.
现在，我仍然觉得，这盒火柴能不受岁月的磨砺，是一件很奇怪的事，对我来说，却是一件很幸运的事。然而，奇怪的是，我发现了一种不太可能的物质，那就是樟脑。我在一个密封的罐子里发现了它，我想，这是偶然的，它确实是密封的。我一开始以为是石蜡，就把玻璃砸碎了。但樟脑的气味是显而易见的。在普遍的腐朽过程中，这种挥发性物质有幸幸存下来，也许经历了数千个世纪。它让我想起了我曾经见过的一幅深褐色画作，它是用箭石化石的墨水完成的，它一定在数百万年前就已经消失并变成了化石。我正想把它扔掉，但我想起它是易燃的，燃烧时发出明亮的火焰——事实上，这是一根很棒的蜡烛——我把它放进了口袋里。然而，我没有找到炸药，也没有找到任何打破青铜门的方法。到目前为止，我的铁撬棍是我遇到的最有用的东西。尽管如此，我还是非常高兴地离开了那个画廊。

‘I cannot tell you all the story of that long afternoon. It would require a great effort of memory to recall my explorations in at all the proper order. I remember a long gallery of rusting stands of arms, and how I hesitated between my crowbar and a hatchet or a sword. I could not carry both, however, and my bar of iron promised best against the bronze gates. There were numbers of guns, pistols, and rifles. The most were masses of rust, but many were of some new metal, and still fairly sound. But any cartridges or powder there may once have been had rotted into dust. One corner I saw was charred and shattered; perhaps, I thought, by an explosion among the specimens. In another place was a vast array of idols—Polynesian, Mexican, Grecian, Phoenician, every country on earth I should think. And here, yielding to an irresistible impulse, I wrote my name upon the nose of a steatite monster from South America that particularly took my fancy.
“我无法告诉你那个漫长下午的所有故事。要以正确的顺序回忆起我的探索，需要付出巨大的记忆力。我记得一长串生锈的武器架，以及我如何在撬棍和斧头或剑之间犹豫不决。然而，我无法同时携带两者，而我的铁棍最适合对抗青铜门。有大量枪支、手枪和步枪。大多数是大量的锈迹，但也有很多是某种新金属，而且仍然相当完好。但那里的任何弹药筒或粉末可能都曾经腐烂成灰尘。我看到一个角落被烧焦并破碎了；我想，也许是标本之间发生了爆炸。另一个地方有大量的偶像——波利尼西亚的、墨西哥的、希腊的、腓尼基的，我想的是地球上的每一个国家。在这里，我屈服于一种不可抗拒的冲动，把我的名字写在了一个来自南美的滑石怪物的鼻子上，它特别吸引了我。

‘As the evening drew on, my interest waned. I went through gallery after gallery, dusty, silent, often ruinous, the exhibits sometimes mere heaps of rust and lignite, sometimes fresher. In one place I suddenly found myself near the model of a tin-mine, and then by the merest accident I discovered, in an air-tight case, two dynamite cartridges! I shouted ‘Eureka!’ and smashed the case with joy. Then came a doubt. I hesitated. Then, selecting a little side gallery, I made my essay. I never felt such a disappointment as I did in waiting five, ten, fifteen minutes for an explosion that never came. Of course the things were dummies, as I might have guessed from their presence. I really believe that had they not been so, I should have rushed off incontinently and blown Sphinx, bronze doors, and (as it proved) my chances of finding the Time Machine, all together into nonexistence.
“随着夜幕降临，我的兴趣逐渐减弱。我参观了一个又一个画廊，尘土飞扬，寂静无声，常常是废墟，展品有时只是一堆铁锈和褐煤，有时则更新鲜。在一个地方，我突然发现自己靠近一个锡矿模型，然后我偶然发现，在一个密封的盒子里有两个炸药筒！我大喊“尤里卡！”并高兴地砸碎了箱子。然后就产生了疑问。我犹豫了。然后，我选择了一个小画廊，开始写我的文章。我从来没有像等待五分钟、十分钟、十五分钟却没有发生爆炸那样感到如此失望。当然，这些东西都是假的，正如我从它们的存在中猜到的那样。我真的相信，如果他们不是这样，我就会失禁冲走，炸毁狮身人面像、青铜门，以及（事实证明）我找到时间机器的机会，全部化为泡影。

‘It was after that, I think, that we came to a little open court within the palace. It was turfed, and had three fruittrees. So we rested and refreshed ourselves. Towards sunset I began to consider our position. Night was creeping upon us, and my inaccessible hiding-place had still to be found. But that troubled me very little now. I had in my possession a thing that was, perhaps, the best of all defences against the Morlocks—I had matches! I had the camphor in my pocket, too, if a blaze were needed. It seemed to me that the best thing we could do would be to pass the night in the open, protected by a fire. In the morning there was the getting of the Time Machine. Towards that, as yet, I had only my iron mace. But now, with my growing knowledge, I felt very differently towards those bronze doors. Up to this, I had refrained from forcing them, largely because of the mystery on the other side. They had never impressed me as being very strong, and I hoped to find my bar of iron not altogether inadequate for the work.
“我想，在那之后，我们来到了宫殿内的一个小露天庭院。它铺着草皮，有三棵果树。于是我们就休息了一下，恢复了精神。日落时分，我开始考虑我们的立场。夜幕降临，我们仍无法找到我难以接近的藏身之所。但现在这对我来说已经没什么困扰了。我拥有的东西也许是对抗莫洛克人最好的防御手段——我有火柴！我口袋里也有樟脑，以备需要生火时使用。在我看来，我们能做的最好的事情就是在露天过夜，在火的保护下。早上，时间机器来了。到目前为止，我只有我的铁锤。但现在，随着知识的增长，我对那些青铜门的感觉有了很大的不同。到目前为止，我一直没有强迫他们，主要是因为另一边的谜团。他们从来没有给我留下非常坚强的印象，我希望我的铁棍不完全不足以胜任这项工作。

IX

‘We emerged from the palace while the sun was still in part above the horizon. I was determined to reach the White Sphinx early the next morning, and ere the dusk I purposed pushing through the woods that had stopped me on the previous journey. My plan was to go as far as possible that night, and then, building a fire, to sleep in the protection of its glare. Accordingly, as we went along I gathered any sticks or dried grass I saw, and presently had my arms full of such litter. Thus loaded, our progress was slower than I had anticipated, and besides Weena was tired. And I began to suffer from sleepiness too; so that it was full night before we reached the wood. Upon the shrubby hill of its edge Weena would have stopped, fearing the darkness before us; but a singular sense of impending calamity, that should indeed have served me as a warning, drove me onward. I had been without sleep for a night and two days, and I was feverish and irritable. I felt sleep coming upon me, and the Morlocks with it.
“我们从宫殿出来时，太阳仍有一部分在地平线以上。我决心第二天一早到达白色狮身人面像，并在黄昏之前穿过在上一次旅程中阻止我的树林。我的计划是那天晚上尽可能走得更远，然后生火，在它的强光保护下睡觉。因此，当我们前进时，我收集了我看到的任何树枝或干草，很快我的怀里就装满了这样的垃圾。因此，我们的进度比我预期的要慢，而且维娜也很累。我也开始感到困倦。所以我们到达树林之前已经是一整夜了。维娜会在边缘的灌木丛山上停下来，因为她害怕我们面前的黑暗。但一种奇异的灾难即将来临的感觉驱使我继续前行，这确实应该对我起到警告作用。我已经一夜两天没睡了，发烧，烦躁。我感到睡意袭来，莫洛克人也随之而来。

‘While we hesitated, among the black bushes behind us, and dim against their blackness, I saw three crouching figures. There was scrub and long grass all about us, and I did not feel safe from their insidious approach. The forest, I calculated, was rather less than a mile across. If we could get through it to the bare hill-side, there, as it seemed to me, was an altogether safer resting-place; I thought that with my matches and my camphor I could contrive to keep my path illuminated through the woods. Yet it was evident that if I was to flourish matches with my hands I should have to abandon my firewood; so, rather reluctantly, I put it down. And then it came into my head that I would amaze our friends behind by lighting it. I was to discover the atrocious folly of this proceeding, but it came to my mind as an ingenious move for covering our retreat.
当我们犹豫时，在我们身后的黑色灌木丛中，在黑暗的衬托下，我看到三个蹲伏的身影。我们周围都是灌木丛和长长的草丛，他们阴险的接近让我感到不安全。我算了一下，这片森林的宽度不到一英里。如果我们能穿过它到达光秃秃的山坡，在我看来，那里是一个完全安全的休息场所；我想，有了我的火柴和樟脑，我就能照亮我穿过树林的道路。但很明显，如果我要用双手擦亮火柴，我就必须放弃我的柴火。于是，我很不情愿地把它放下了。然后我就想到，我要点燃它，让后面的朋友们大吃一惊。我本应发现这一行动是极其愚蠢的，但我认为这是掩护我们撤退的巧妙之举。

‘I don’t know if you have ever thought what a rare thing flame must be in the absence of man and in a temperate climate. The sun’s heat is rarely strong enough to burn, even when it is focused by dewdrops, as is sometimes the case in more tropical districts. Lightning may blast and blacken, but it rarely gives rise to widespread fire. Decaying vegetation may occasionally smoulder with the heat of its fermentation, but this rarely results in flame. In this decadence, too, the art of fire-making had been forgotten on the earth. The red tongues that went licking up my heap of wood were an altogether new and strange thing to Weena.
“我不知道你是否想过，在没有人类、气候温和的地方，火焰是多么罕见的东西。”太阳的热量很少强到足以燃烧，即使它被露珠聚焦，就像在热带地区有时会出现的情况一样。闪电可能会爆炸并变黑，但很少会引起大范围的火灾。腐烂的植物有时可能会因其发酵的热量而阴燃，但这很少会导致火焰。在这种颓废时期，生火艺术也被遗忘在地球上。舔我的木头的红色舌头对维娜来说是一种全新而奇怪的东西。

‘She wanted to run to it and play with it. I believe she would have cast herself into it had I not restrained her. But I caught her up, and in spite of her struggles, plunged boldly before me into the wood. For a little way the glare of my fire lit the path. Looking back presently, I could see, through the crowded stems, that from my heap of sticks the blaze had spread to some bushes adjacent, and a curved line of fire was creeping up the grass of the hill. I laughed at that, and turned again to the dark trees before me. It was very black, and Weena clung to me convulsively, but there was still, as my eyes grew accustomed to the darkness, sufficient light for me to avoid the stems. Overhead it was simply black, except where a gap of remote blue sky shone down upon us here and there. I struck none of my matches because I had no hand free. Upon my left arm I carried my little one, in my right hand I had my iron bar.
“她想跑过去和它玩。我相信，如果我没有阻止她，她一定会陷入其中。但我追上了她，不顾她的挣扎，大胆地在我面前跳进树林里。我的火光稍微照亮了道路。不久回头一看，透过拥挤的树干，我看到火势已经从我那堆树枝蔓延到了附近的一些灌木丛，一条弯曲的火线正在爬上山上的草丛。我笑了，然后再次转向我面前的黑暗树木。天很黑，维娜痉挛般地紧贴着我，但随着我的眼睛逐渐习惯了黑暗，仍然有足够的光线让我避开茎。头顶上一片漆黑，只有远处的一片蓝天向我们投来点点的光芒。我没有划动任何火柴，因为我没有空出双手。我的左臂上抱着我的孩子，右手里拿着我的铁棒。

‘For some way I heard nothing but the crackling twigs under my feet, the faint rustle of the breeze above, and my own breathing and the throb of the blood-vessels in my ears. Then I seemed to know of a pattering about me. I pushed on grimly. The pattering grew more distinct, and then I caught the same queer sound and voices I had heard in the Under-world. There were evidently several of the Morlocks, and they were closing in upon me. Indeed, in another minute I felt a tug at my coat, then something at my arm. And Weena shivered violently, and became quite still.
“不知怎的，除了脚下树枝的劈啪声、上面微风的沙沙声、我自己的呼吸声和耳朵里血管的跳动声之外，我什么也听不到。”然后我似乎知道有人在议论我。我冷酷地继续前行。啪嗒啪嗒的声音变得更加清晰，然后我听到了我在地狱里听到的同样奇怪的声音和声音。显然有几个莫洛克人，他们正向我逼近。确实，又过了一分钟，我感觉到有人在拉我的外套，然后有什么东西在拉我的手臂。维娜猛烈地颤抖起来，然后变得一动不动。

‘It was time for a match. But to get one I must put her down. I did so, and, as I fumbled with my pocket, a struggle began in the darkness about my knees, perfectly silent on her part and with the same peculiar cooing sounds from the Morlocks. Soft little hands, too, were creeping over my coat and back, touching even my neck. Then the match scratched and fizzed. I held it flaring, and saw the white backs of the Morlocks in flight amid the trees. I hastily took a lump of camphor from my pocket, and prepared to light is as soon as the match should wane. Then I looked at Weena. She was lying clutching my feet and quite motionless, with her face to the ground. With a sudden fright I stooped to her. She seemed scarcely to breathe. I lit the block of camphor and flung it to the ground, and as it split and flared up and drove back the Morlocks and the shadows, I knelt down and lifted her. The wood behind seemed full of the stir and murmur of a great company!
‘比赛时间到了。但为了得到一个我必须放下她。我这样做了，当我摸索口袋时，我的膝盖周围的黑暗中开始了挣扎，而她则完全安静，并伴随着来自莫洛克人的同样奇特的咕咕声。柔软的小手也在我的外套和后背上爬行，甚至抚摸着我的脖子。然后火柴发出刮擦声和嘶嘶声。我把它张开，看到莫洛克人白色的背影在树林中飞翔。我急忙从口袋里掏出一块樟脑，准备在火柴熄灭后立即点燃。然后我看着维娜。她躺在地上，抓着我的脚，一动不动，脸贴在地上。我突然感到害怕，弯下身子向她走去。她似乎几乎无法呼吸。我点燃了那块樟脑，把它扔到了地上，当它裂开并燃烧起来并驱赶莫洛克人和阴影时，我跪下来抱起了她。后面的树林里似乎充满了一大群人的骚动和低语！

‘She seemed to have fainted. I put her carefully upon my shoulder and rose to push on, and then there came a horrible realization. In manoeuvring with my matches and Weena, I had turned myself about several times, and now I had not the faintest idea in what direction lay my path. For all I knew, I might be facing back towards the Palace of Green Porcelain. I found myself in a cold sweat. I had to think rapidly what to do. I determined to build a fire and encamp where we were. I put Weena, still motionless, down upon a turfy bole, and very hastily, as my first lump of camphor waned, I began collecting sticks and leaves. Here and there out of the darkness round me the Morlocks’ eyes shone like carbuncles.
‘她好像晕倒了。我小心翼翼地将她放在肩上，起身继续前行，然后我意识到了一个可怕的事实。在操纵我的火柴和威娜时，我已经把自己转了好几次了，现在我完全不知道我的路该往哪个方向走。据我所知，我可能背对着青瓷宫。我发现自己出了一身冷汗。我必须迅速思考该怎么做。我决定生火并在我们所在的地方扎营。我把仍然一动不动的维娜放在一根草皮树干上，当我的第一块樟脑逐渐消失时，我非常匆忙地开始收集树枝和树叶。在我周围的黑暗中，莫洛克人的眼睛到处都像红宝石一样闪闪发光。

‘The camphor flickered and went out. I lit a match, and as I did so, two white forms that had been approaching Weena dashed hastily away. One was so blinded by the light that he came straight for me, and I felt his bones grind under the blow of my fist. He gave a whoop of dismay, staggered a little way, and fell down. I lit another piece of camphor, and went on gathering my bonfire. Presently I noticed how dry was some of the foliage above me, for since my arrival on the Time Machine, a matter of a week, no rain had fallen. So, instead of casting about among the trees for fallen twigs, I began leaping up and dragging down branches. Very soon I had a choking smoky fire of green wood and dry sticks, and could economize my camphor. Then I turned to where Weena lay beside my iron mace. I tried what I could to revive her, but she lay like one dead. I could not even satisfy myself whether or not she breathed.
‘樟脑摇曳，熄灭了。我点燃了一根火柴，当我这样做的时候，两个接近维娜的白色身影匆匆跑开。其中一个被光线弄瞎了眼睛，径直向我走来，我感觉到他的骨头在我拳头的打击下被磨碎。他沮丧地大叫一声，踉踉跄跄地跌倒了。我又点燃了一块樟脑，继续收集篝火。不久我注意到我上方的一些树叶有多么干燥，因为自从我到达时间机器以来，大约一周的时间里，没有下过雨。因此，我没有在树林中寻找掉落的树枝，而是开始跳起来并拖下树枝。很快我就生起了绿色的木头和干木条的令人窒息的烟雾火，并且可以节省我的樟脑。然后我转向维娜躺在我的铁锤旁边的地方。我尽了一切努力让她苏醒，但她躺在地上就像死了一样。无论她是否呼吸，我什至都无法满足自己。

‘Now, the smoke of the fire beat over towards me, and it must have made me heavy of a sudden. Moreover, the vapour of camphor was in the air. My fire would not need replenishing for an hour or so. I felt very weary after my exertion, and sat down. The wood, too, was full of a slumbrous murmur that I did not understand. I seemed just to nod and open my eyes. But all was dark, and the Morlocks had their hands upon me. Flinging off their clinging fingers I hastily felt in my pocket for the match-box, and—it had gone! Then they gripped and closed with me again. In a moment I knew what had happened. I had slept, and my fire had gone out, and the bitterness of death came over my soul. The forest seemed full of the smell of burning wood. I was caught by the neck, by the hair, by the arms, and pulled down. It was indescribably horrible in the darkness to feel all these soft creatures heaped upon me. I felt as if I was in a monstrous spider’s web. I was overpowered, and went down. I felt little teeth nipping at my neck. I rolled over, and as I did so my hand came against my iron lever. It gave me strength. I struggled up, shaking the human rats from me, and, holding the bar short, I thrust where I judged their faces might be. I could feel the succulent giving of flesh and bone under my blows, and for a moment I was free.
“现在，大火的烟雾向我袭来，我一定突然变得沉重起来。而且，空气中还弥漫着樟脑的蒸气。我的火在一个小时左右的时间内不需要补充。一番劳累后，我感到很疲倦，便坐下来。树林里也充满了我听不懂的昏昏欲睡的低语声。我似乎只是点点头，睁开眼睛。但一切都是黑暗的，莫洛克人对我下手了。我甩开他们紧贴的手指，急忙在口袋里摸索火柴盒，然后——它不见了！然后他们再次抓住我并靠近我。刹那间我就知道发生了什么事。我已经睡着了，我的火也熄灭了，死亡的痛苦笼罩着我的灵魂。森林里似乎充满了烧木头的味道。我的脖子、头发、手臂都被抓住，然后被拉倒。在黑暗中，感觉这些柔软的生物堆积在我身上，真是难以形容的可怕。我感觉自己仿佛置身于一张巨大的蜘蛛网中。我被压倒了，倒下了。我感觉小牙齿咬住了我的脖子。我翻了个身，当我这样做时，我的手碰到了我的铁杆。它给了我力量。我挣扎着站起来，把那些人类老鼠从我身上甩开，然后，把杆子拉短，我把刺向我判断出它们的脸可能在的地方。我能感觉到肉和骨头在我的打击下变得多汁，有那么一刻我自由了。

‘The strange exultation that so often seems to accompany hard fighting came upon me. I knew that both I and Weena were lost, but I determined to make the Morlocks pay for their meat. I stood with my back to a tree, swinging the iron bar before me. The whole wood was full of the stir and cries of them. A minute passed. Their voices seemed to rise to a higher pitch of excitement, and their movements grew faster. Yet none came within reach. I stood glaring at the blackness. Then suddenly came hope. What if the Morlocks were afraid? And close on the heels of that came a strange thing. The darkness seemed to grow luminous. Very dimly I began to see the Morlocks about me—three battered at my feet—and then I recognized, with incredulous surprise, that the others were running, in an incessant stream, as it seemed, from behind me, and away through the wood in front. And their backs seemed no longer white, but reddish. As I stood agape, I saw a little red spark go drifting across a gap of starlight between the branches, and vanish. And at that I understood the smell of burning wood, the slumbrous murmur that was growing now into a gusty roar, the red glow, and the Morlocks’ flight.
“我常常感到一种奇怪的狂喜，这种狂喜常常伴随着艰苦的战斗而来。我知道我和维娜都迷路了，但我决心让莫洛克人为他们的肉付出代价。我背靠着一棵树站着，挥舞着面前的铁棒。整个树林里充满了他们的骚动和叫喊声。一分钟过去了。他们的声音似乎变得更加兴奋，动作也变得更快。但没有一个是触手可及的。我站在那儿，瞪着黑暗。然后突然出现了希望。如果莫洛克人害怕怎么办？紧接着发生了一件奇怪的事情。黑暗似乎变得明亮起来。我开始隐隐约约地看到周围的莫洛克人——三个人在我的脚下被殴打——然后我难以置信地惊讶地意识到，其他人正在奔跑，就像一条源源不断的溪流一样，从我身后跑过，穿过树林。在前。而他们的背影似乎也不再是白色，而是泛着红色。当我目瞪口呆地站着时，我看到一点红色的火花飘过树枝之间的星光缝隙，然后消失了。在那一刻，我明白了燃烧木头的气味、昏昏欲睡的低语现在变成了阵阵咆哮、红色的光芒和莫洛克人的逃跑。

‘Stepping out from behind my tree and looking back, I saw, through the black pillars of the nearer trees, the flames of the burning forest. It was my first fire coming after me. With that I looked for Weena, but she was gone. The hissing and crackling behind me, the explosive thud as each fresh tree burst into flame, left little time for reflection. My iron bar still gripped, I followed in the Morlocks’ path. It was a close race. Once the flames crept forward so swiftly on my right as I ran that I was outflanked and had to strike off to the left. But at last I emerged upon a small open space, and as I did so, a Morlock came blundering towards me, and past me, and went on straight into the fire!
“从我的树后面走出来，回头一看，透过附近树木的黑色柱子，我看到了燃烧的森林的火焰。这是我身后发生的第一场火灾。说完我就去找维娜，但她已经不见了。我身后的嘶嘶声和噼啪声，每棵新树燃烧时发出的爆炸声，几乎没有给我留下思考的时间。我仍然紧握着铁棍，沿着莫洛克人的道路前进。这是一场势均力敌的比赛。有一次，当我奔跑时，火焰在我的右侧迅速蔓延，导致我被包抄，不得不向左侧发起进攻。但最后我出现在一个小空地上，当我这样做时，一个莫洛克人跌跌撞撞地向我走来，从我身边经过，径直走进了火里！

‘And now I was to see the most weird and horrible thing, I think, of all that I beheld in that future age. This whole space was as bright as day with the reflection of the fire. In the centre was a hillock or tumulus, surmounted by a scorched hawthorn. Beyond this was another arm of the burning forest, with yellow tongues already writhing from it, completely encircling the space with a fence of fire. Upon the hill-side were some thirty or forty Morlocks, dazzled by the light and heat, and blundering hither and thither against each other in their bewilderment. At first I did not realize their blindness, and struck furiously at them with my bar, in a frenzy of fear, as they approached me, killing one and crippling several more. But when I had watched the gestures of one of them groping under the hawthorn against the red sky, and heard their moans, I was assured of their absolute helplessness and misery in the glare, and I struck no more of them.
“我认为，现在我将看到我在未来时代所看到的一切中最奇怪和最可怕的事情。整个空间在火光的反射下明亮如白昼。中心是一座小丘或古坟，上面长着一棵烧焦的山楂。远处是燃烧森林的另一条手臂，黄色的舌头已经从里面扭动起来，用一道火墙完全包围了整个空间。山坡上有大约三十或四十个莫洛克人，他们被光和热弄得眼花缭乱，在困惑中互相跌跌撞撞。起初，我没有意识到他们的盲目性，当他们接近我时，我在极度恐惧中用我的棒子猛烈地攻击他们，杀死了一个人，又打残了几个人。但当我看到他们中的一个在红色天空下的山楂树下摸索的姿态，听到他们的呻吟声时，我确信他们在强光下绝对无助和痛苦，所以我不再打他们。

‘Yet every now and then one would come straight towards me, setting loose a quivering horror that made me quick to elude him. At one time the flames died down somewhat, and I feared the foul creatures would presently be able to see me. I was thinking of beginning the fight by killing some of them before this should happen; but the fire burst out again brightly, and I stayed my hand. I walked about the hill among them and avoided them, looking for some trace of Weena. But Weena was gone.
“然而，时不时会有一个人径直朝我走来，释放出一种令人颤抖的恐惧，让我赶紧躲避他。火焰一度熄灭了一些，我担心那些邪恶的生物很快就能看到我。我想在这一切发生之前杀死他们中的一些人来开始战斗；但事实并非如此。但火又猛烈地燃烧起来，我停下了手。我在山上绕着他们走，避开他们，寻找维娜的踪迹。但维娜却不见了。

‘At last I sat down on the summit of the hillock, and watched this strange incredible company of blind things groping to and fro, and making uncanny noises to each other, as the glare of the fire beat on them. The coiling uprush of smoke streamed across the sky, and through the rare tatters of that red canopy, remote as though they belonged to another universe, shone the little stars. Two or three Morlocks came blundering into me, and I drove them off with blows of my fists, trembling as I did so.
最后，我坐在小山顶上，看着这群奇怪的、令人难以置信的盲人动物来回摸索，当火光照射在它们身上时，它们互相发出怪异的声音。盘旋的烟雾在天空中飘过，透过红色天篷的稀有碎片，遥远得仿佛属于另一个宇宙，闪烁着小星星。两三个莫洛克人跌跌撞撞地撞到了我身上，我用拳头把他们赶走了，我这样做的时候浑身发抖。

‘For the most part of that night I was persuaded it was a nightmare. I bit myself and screamed in a passionate desire to awake. I beat the ground with my hands, and got up and sat down again, and wandered here and there, and again sat down. Then I would fall to rubbing my eyes and calling upon God to let me awake. Thrice I saw Morlocks put their heads down in a kind of agony and rush into the flames. But, at last, above the subsiding red of the fire, above the streaming masses of black smoke and the whitening and blackening tree stumps, and the diminishing numbers of these dim creatures, came the white light of the day.
“那天晚上的大部分时间里，我都相信这是一场噩梦。我咬着自己，尖叫着，强烈地想要醒来。我用手捶地，起身又坐下，晃来晃去又坐下。然后我就会揉揉眼睛，祈求上帝让我醒来。我三次看到莫洛克人痛苦地低下头，冲进火焰中。但是，最后，在渐渐消退的红色火光之上，在滚滚的黑烟之上，在不断变白变黑的树桩之上，在这些昏暗生物的数量逐渐减少的之上，出现了白天的白光。

‘I searched again for traces of Weena, but there were none. It was plain that they had left her poor little body in the forest. I cannot describe how it relieved me to think that it had escaped the awful fate to which it seemed destined. As I thought of that, I was almost moved to begin a massacre of the helpless abominations about me, but I contained myself. The hillock, as I have said, was a kind of island in the forest. From its summit I could now make out through a haze of smoke the Palace of Green Porcelain, and from that I could get my bearings for the White Sphinx. And so, leaving the remnant of these damned souls still going hither and thither and moaning, as the day grew clearer, I tied some grass about my feet and limped on across smoking ashes and among black stems, that still pulsated internally with fire, towards the hiding-place of the Time Machine. I walked slowly, for I was almost exhausted, as well as lame, and I felt the intensest wretchedness for the horrible death of little Weena. It seemed an overwhelming calamity. Now, in this old familiar room, it is more like the sorrow of a dream than an actual loss. But that morning it left me absolutely lonely again—terribly alone. I began to think of this house of mine, of this fireside, of some of you, and with such thoughts came a longing that was pain.
“我再次寻找维娜的踪迹，但一无所获。很明显，他们把她可怜的小身体留在了森林里。我无法描述当我想到它已经逃脱了似乎注定要遭遇的可怕命运时，我是多么如释重负。当我想到这一点时，我几乎要开始屠杀我身边那些无助的可憎之物，但我克制住了自己。正如我所说，小山丘是森林中的一座岛屿。从山顶上，我现在可以透过一层烟雾辨认出青瓷宫殿，从中我可以确定白色狮身人面像的方位。于是，随着天渐渐明朗起来，留下这些该死的灵魂的残余仍然到处乱跑、呻吟着，我在脚上绑了一些草，一瘸一拐地穿过冒着烟的灰烬和黑色的茎，这些茎内部仍然在燃烧着火焰，走向时间机器的藏身之处。我慢慢地走着，因为我几乎筋疲力尽，而且跛了，我对小维娜的惨死感到非常悲痛。这似乎是一场压倒性的灾难。现在，在这个熟悉的旧房间里，这更像是梦中的悲伤，而不是真正的失落。但那天早上，我再次感到绝对的孤独——非常孤独。我开始想起我的这座房子，想起这个炉边，想起你们中的一些人，伴随着这样的想法而来的是一种痛苦的渴望。

‘But as I walked over the smoking ashes under the bright morning sky, I made a discovery. In my trouser pocket were still some loose matches. The box must have leaked before it was lost.
“但是当我在明亮的晨空下走过冒烟的灰烬时，我有了一个发现。我的裤兜里还有一些松散的火柴。盒子在丢失之前肯定已经泄漏了。

X

‘About eight or nine in the morning I came to the same seat of yellow metal from which I had viewed the world upon the evening of my arrival. I thought of my hasty conclusions upon that evening and could not refrain from laughing bitterly at my confidence. Here was the same beautiful scene, the same abundant foliage, the same splendid palaces and magnificent ruins, the same silver river running between its fertile banks. The gay robes of the beautiful people moved hither and thither among the trees. Some were bathing in exactly the place where I had saved Weena, and that suddenly gave me a keen stab of pain. And like blots upon the landscape rose the cupolas above the ways to the Under-world. I understood now what all the beauty of the Overworld people covered. Very pleasant was their day, as pleasant as the day of the cattle in the field. Like the cattle, they knew of no enemies and provided against no needs. And their end was the same.
“大约早上八九点钟，我来到了同一个黄色金属座位上，我到达的那天晚上就是在这个座位上观察世界的。我想起那天晚上仓促得出的结论，忍不住对自己的自信苦笑。这里有同样美丽的景色，同样茂盛的树叶，同样辉煌的宫殿和宏伟的废墟，同样的银色河流在肥沃的河岸之间流淌。美丽的人们穿着华丽的长袍在树林里走来走去。有些人正在我救威娜的地方洗澡，这突然让我感到一阵剧痛。通向地狱之路上方的圆顶就像风景上的污点一样拔地而起。我现在明白了主世界人民的所有美丽所涵盖的内容。他们的日子过得非常愉快，就像田野里牛群的日子一样愉快。就像牛一样，他们不知道有什么敌人，也没有什么需要。而他们的结局也是一样的。

‘I grieved to think how brief the dream of the human intellect had been. It had committed suicide. It had set itself steadfastly towards comfort and ease, a balanced society with security and permanency as its watchword, it had attained its hopes—to come to this at last. Once, life and property must have reached almost absolute safety. The rich had been assured of his wealth and comfort, the toiler assured of his life and work. No doubt in that perfect world there had been no unemployed problem, no social question left unsolved. And a great quiet had followed.
“我悲伤地想到人类智力的梦想是多么短暂。它已经自杀了。它坚定地致力于舒适和安逸，一个以安全和永久为口号的平衡社会，它已经实现了它的希望——终于实现了这一点。曾经，生命财产肯定达到了近乎绝对的安全。富人得到了财富和舒适的保障，劳动者得到了生活和工作的保障。毫无疑问，在那个完美的世界里，不存在失业问题，也不存在未解决的社会问题。接下来是一片寂静。

‘It is a law of nature we overlook, that intellectual versatility is the compensation for change, danger, and trouble. An animal perfectly in harmony with its environment is a perfect mechanism. Nature never appeals to intelligence until habit and instinct are useless. There is no intelligence where there is no change and no need of change. Only those animals partake of intelligence that have to meet a huge variety of needs and dangers.
“我们忽视了一条自然法则，即智力的多才多艺是对变化、危险和麻烦的补偿。与环境完美和谐的动物是一个完美的机制。除非习惯和本能毫无用处，否则大自然永远不会诉诸智力。没有变化，也不需要变化，就没有智慧。只有那些具有智力的动物才能满足各种各样的需求和危险。

‘So, as I see it, the Upper-world man had drifted towards his feeble prettiness, and the Under-world to mere mechanical industry. But that perfect state had lacked one thing even for mechanical perfection—absolute permanency. Apparently as time went on, the feeding of the Under-world, however it was effected, had become disjointed. Mother Necessity, who had been staved off for a few thousand years, came back again, and she began below. The Under-world being in contact with machinery, which, however perfect, still needs some little thought outside habit, had probably retained perforce rather more initiative, if less of every other human character, than the Upper. And when other meat failed them, they turned to what old habit had hitherto forbidden. So I say I saw it in my last view of the world of Eight Hundred and Two Thousand Seven Hundred and One. It may be as wrong an explanation as mortal wit could invent. It is how the thing shaped itself to me, and as that I give it to you.
所以，在我看来，上层世界的男人已经走向了他那微弱的美丽，而下层世界的男人已经走向了纯粹的机械工业。但即使是机械上的完美，这种完美的状态也缺乏一件事——绝对的永久性。显然，随着时间的推移，地下世界的供给，无论是如何实现的，都变得脱节了。被隔绝了几千年的必然之母又回来了，她开始了下面的生活。与机械接触的地下世界，无论多么完美，仍然需要一些习惯之外的思考，可能比上层世界保留了更多的主动性，尽管其他人类性格有所不同。当其他肉类无法满足他们的需求时，他们就会转向迄今为止所禁止的旧习惯。所以我说我在最后一次看到八百二千七百零一的世界时看到了它。这可能是凡人智慧所能发明的最错误的解释。这就是这件事对我来说的形成方式，我也因此把它给了你。

‘After the fatigues, excitements, and terrors of the past days, and in spite of my grief, this seat and the tranquil view and the warm sunlight were very pleasant. I was very tired and sleepy, and soon my theorizing passed into dozing. Catching myself at that, I took my own hint, and spreading myself out upon the turf I had a long and refreshing sleep.
“经历了过去几天的疲劳、兴奋和恐惧之后，尽管我很悲伤，但这个座位、宁静的景色和温暖的阳光还是非常令人愉快的。我又累又困，很快我的理论就变成了打瞌睡。我意识到这一点，接受了自己的暗示，躺在草地上，睡了一个漫长而神清气爽的睡眠。

‘I awoke a little before sunsetting. I now felt safe against being caught napping by the Morlocks, and, stretching myself, I came on down the hill towards the White Sphinx. I had my crowbar in one hand, and the other hand played with the matches in my pocket.
“日落之前我醒了一点。现在我觉得安全了，不会被莫洛克人抓到打瞌睡，于是我伸伸懒腰，下山朝白色狮身人面像走去。我一手拿着撬棍，另一只手玩着口袋里的火柴。

‘And now came a most unexpected thing. As I approached the pedestal of the sphinx I found the bronze valves were open. They had slid down into grooves.
‘现在发生了一件最意想不到的事情。当我接近狮身人面像的基座时，我发现青铜阀门打开了。他们已经滑入凹槽了。

‘At that I stopped short before them, hesitating to enter.
“那时我在他们面前停了下来，犹豫着要不要进去。

‘Within was a small apartment, and on a raised place in the corner of this was the Time Machine. I had the small levers in my pocket. So here, after all my elaborate preparations for the siege of the White Sphinx, was a meek surrender. I threw my iron bar away, almost sorry not to use it.
“里面有一个小公寓，在这个角落的一个凸起的地方是时间机器。我的口袋里有小杠杆。所以，在我为围攻白色狮身人面像所做的一切精心准备之后，我屈服了。我把铁棒扔掉了，几乎后悔没有使用它。

‘A sudden thought came into my head as I stooped towards the portal. For once, at least, I grasped the mental operations of the Morlocks. Suppressing a strong inclination to laugh, I stepped through the bronze frame and up to the Time Machine. I was surprised to find it had been carefully oiled and cleaned. I have suspected since that the Morlocks had even partially taken it to pieces while trying in their dim way to grasp its purpose.
“当我弯腰走向大门时，我的脑海中突然浮现出一个想法。至少这一次，我掌握了莫洛克人的心理运作方式。我强忍住想笑的冲动，穿过青铜框架，走向时间机器。我惊讶地发现它被仔细地涂油和清洁。从那时起我就怀疑莫洛克人在试图以他们模糊的方式试图掌握其目的时甚至将其部分分解。

‘Now as I stood and examined it, finding a pleasure in the mere touch of the contrivance, the thing I had expected happened. The bronze panels suddenly slid up and struck the frame with a clang. I was in the dark—trapped. So the Morlocks thought. At that I chuckled gleefully.
“现在，当我站起来仔细检查它，并从触摸这个装置中找到乐趣时，我所期望的事情发生了。青铜板猛然滑起，撞在框架上，发出“叮”的一声。我在黑暗中——被困住了。莫洛克人就是这么想的。说到这里我高兴地笑了。

‘I could already hear their murmuring laughter as they came towards me. Very calmly I tried to strike the match. I had only to fix on the levers and depart then like a ghost. But I had overlooked one little thing. The matches were of that abominable kind that light only on the box.
“当他们向我走来时，我已经能听到他们低声的笑声。我非常平静地尝试划火柴。我只需抓住操纵杆，然后像幽灵一样离开。但我忽略了一件小事。火柴是那种只在盒子上点燃的可恶的火柴。

‘You may imagine how all my calm vanished. The little brutes were close upon me. One touched me. I made a sweeping blow in the dark at them with the levers, and began to scramble into the saddle of the machine. Then came one hand upon me and then another. Then I had simply to fight against their persistent fingers for my levers, and at the same time feel for the studs over which these fitted. One, indeed, they almost got away from me. As it slipped from my hand, I had to butt in the dark with my head—I could hear the Morlock’s skull ring—to recover it. It was a nearer thing than the fight in the forest, I think, this last scramble.
“你可以想象我的平静是如何消失的。这些小畜生离我很近。有一个触动了我。我在黑暗中用操纵杆向他们猛击了一下，然后开始爬上机器的鞍座。然后一只手伸到我身上，然后另一只手伸到我身上。然后我只需与他们顽固的手指搏斗，寻找我的杠杆，同时摸索安装这些杠杆的螺柱。确实，他们差点就从我身边逃脱了。当它从我手中滑落时，我不得不在黑暗中用头撞——我能听到莫洛克的头骨响声——才能把它找回来。我想，这比森林里的战斗更接近，这最后的争夺。

‘But at last the lever was fitted and pulled over. The clinging hands slipped from me. The darkness presently fell from my eyes. I found myself in the same grey light and tumult I have already described.
“但最后拉杆安装好并拉了过来。紧握着我的双手从我身上滑落。黑暗很快就从我的眼前消失了。我发现自己处于我已经描述过的同样的灰色光线和混乱之中。

XI

‘I have already told you of the sickness and confusion that comes with time travelling. And this time I was not seated properly in the saddle, but sideways and in an unstable fashion. For an indefinite time I clung to the machine as it swayed and vibrated, quite unheeding how I went, and when I brought myself to look at the dials again I was amazed to find where I had arrived. One dial records days, and another thousands of days, another millions of days, and another thousands of millions. Now, instead of reversing the levers, I had pulled them over so as to go forward with them, and when I came to look at these indicators I found that the thousands hand was sweeping round as fast as the seconds hand of a watch—into futurity.
“我已经告诉过你时间旅行带来的疾病和困惑。这次我没有正确地坐在马鞍上，而是侧身坐在马鞍上，而且坐姿不稳定。在一段不确定的时间里，我紧紧抓住机器，看着它摇摆和振动，完全没有注意到我是如何走的，当我再次看向表盘时，我惊讶地发现我到达了哪里。一个表盘记录了几天，另一个表盘记录了数千天，另一个记录了数百万天，又一个记录了数亿天。现在，我没有反转杠杆，而是将它们拉到一边，以便与它们一起前进，当我看这些指示器时，我发现千分表的指针像手表的秒针一样快地扫过——变成了未来。

‘As I drove on, a peculiar change crept over the appearance of things. The palpitating greyness grew darker; then—though I was still travelling with prodigious velocity—the blinking succession of day and night, which was usually indicative of a slower pace, returned, and grew more and more marked. This puzzled me very much at first. The alternations of night and day grew slower and slower, and so did the passage of the sun across the sky, until they seemed to stretch through centuries. At last a steady twilight brooded over the earth, a twilight only broken now and then when a comet glared across the darkling sky. The band of light that had indicated the sun had long since disappeared; for the sun had ceased to set—it simply rose and fell in the west, and grew ever broader and more red. All trace of the moon had vanished. The circling of the stars, growing slower and slower, had given place to creeping points of light. At last, some time before I stopped, the sun, red and very large, halted motionless upon the horizon, a vast dome glowing with a dull heat, and now and then suffering a momentary extinction. At one time it had for a little while glowed more brilliantly again, but it speedily reverted to its sullen red heat. I perceived by this slowing down of its rising and setting that the work of the tidal drag was done. The earth had come to rest with one face to the sun, even as in our own time the moon faces the earth. Very cautiously, for I remembered my former headlong fall, I began to reverse my motion. Slower and slower went the circling hands until the thousands one seemed motionless and the daily one was no longer a mere mist upon its scale. Still slower, until the dim outlines of a desolate beach grew visible.
“当我继续前行时，事物的外观发生了一种奇特的变化。令人心悸的灰色变得更暗了。然后——尽管我仍然以惊人的速度行驶——通常表明节奏较慢的白天和黑夜的闪烁又回来了，而且变得越来越明显。起初这让我很困惑。白天和黑夜的交替变得越来越慢，太阳划过天空的速度也越来越慢，直到它们似乎绵延了几个世纪。最后，一片稳定的暮色笼罩着大地，只有当一颗彗星在黑暗的天空中闪烁时，暮色才偶尔被打破。原本代表太阳的光带早已消失了。因为太阳已经停止落山——它只是在西边升起又落下，而且变得越来越宽、越来越红。月亮的所有痕迹都消失了。星星的旋转速度越来越慢，取而代之的是蠕动的光点。最后，在我停下来之前的一段时间，红色的、巨大的太阳一动不动地停在地平线上，巨大的圆顶闪烁着暗淡的热量，时不时地遭受短暂的熄灭。有一段时间它再次发出更加明亮的光芒，但很快又恢复了暗红色的热量。通过潮汐上升和落下速度的减慢，我意识到潮汐阻力的作用已经完成。地球以一面朝向太阳的方式静止不动，就像在我们这个时代，月亮面向地球一样。我非常小心地开始扭转我的动作，因为我还记得之前的那次摔倒。旋转的指针越来越慢，直到成千上万的指针似乎一动不动，而每日的指针也不再只是鳞片上的一团薄雾。速度仍然缓慢，直到荒凉海滩的模糊轮廓变得清晰可见。

‘I stopped very gently and sat upon the Time Machine, looking round. The sky was no longer blue. North-eastward it was inky black, and out of the blackness shone brightly and steadily the pale white stars. Overhead it was a deep Indian red and starless, and south-eastward it grew brighter to a glowing scarlet where, cut by the horizon, lay the huge hull of the sun, red and motionless. The rocks about me were of a harsh reddish colour, and all the trace of life that I could see at first was the intensely green vegetation that covered every projecting point on their south-eastern face. It was the same rich green that one sees on forest moss or on the lichen in caves: plants which like these grow in a perpetual twilight.
“我轻轻地停下来，坐在时间机器上，环顾四周。天空不再蔚蓝。东北方向一片漆黑，淡白色的星星在黑暗中明亮而稳定地闪烁着。头顶上，它是深印度红色，没有星星，而在东南方，它变得更加明亮，变成一种发光的猩红色，地平线的切割下，躺着太阳的巨大外壳，红色的，一动不动。我周围的岩石呈现出刺眼的红色，我最初看到的所有生命痕迹都是浓绿色的植被，覆盖了东南面的每个突出点。它与人们在森林苔藓或洞穴地衣上看到的一样浓郁的绿色：像这些植物一样生长在永恒的暮色中。

‘The machine was standing on a sloping beach. The sea stretched away to the south-west, to rise into a sharp bright horizon against the wan sky. There were no breakers and no waves, for not a breath of wind was stirring. Only a slight oily swell rose and fell like a gentle breathing, and showed that the eternal sea was still moving and living. And along the margin where the water sometimes broke was a thick incrustation of salt—pink under the lurid sky. There was a sense of oppression in my head, and I noticed that I was breathing very fast. The sensation reminded me of my only experience of mountaineering, and from that I judged the air to be more rarefied than it is now.
“这台机器站在一个倾斜的海滩上。大海向西南方向延伸，在苍白的天空映衬下升起一片明亮的地平线。没有波浪，也没有波浪，因为没有一丝风吹动。只有轻微的油腻的波涛像轻柔的呼吸一样起起落落，表明永恒的大海仍然在移动和生机。沿着有时破水的边缘，有一层厚厚的盐壳——在阴暗的天空下呈粉红色。我的脑子里有一种压抑的感觉，我发现自己的呼吸变得很急促。这种感觉让我想起了我唯一一次登山的经历，由此我判断空气比现在更加稀薄。

‘Far away up the desolate slope I heard a harsh scream, and saw a thing like a huge white butterfly go slanting and flittering up into the sky and, circling, disappear over some low hillocks beyond. The sound of its voice was so dismal that I shivered and seated myself more firmly upon the machine. Looking round me again, I saw that, quite near, what I had taken to be a reddish mass of rock was moving slowly towards me. Then I saw the thing was really a monstrous crab-like creature. Can you imagine a crab as large as yonder table, with its many legs moving slowly and uncertainly, its big claws swaying, its long antennae, like carters’ whips, waving and feeling, and its stalked eyes gleaming at you on either side of its metallic front? Its back was corrugated and ornamented with ungainly bosses, and a greenish incrustation blotched it here and there. I could see the many palps of its complicated mouth flickering and feeling as it moved.
“在荒凉的山坡上很远的地方，我听到一声刺耳的尖叫，然后看到一个像一只巨大的白色蝴蝶的东西倾斜地飞向天空，盘旋着，消失在远处的一些低矮的山丘上。它的声音是如此凄凉，以至于我颤抖着，在机器上坐得更紧了。再次环顾四周，我发现就在很近的地方，我认为是一块微红色的岩石正在慢慢地向我移动。然后我发现那东西真的是一只像螃蟹一样的怪物。你能想象一只像那边桌子那么大的螃蟹，它的许多腿缓慢而不确定地移动，它的大爪子摇摆着，它的长触角像卡特的鞭子一样挥舞着，感觉着，它的眼睛在它的两侧闪闪发光地看着你。金属正面？它的背部布满了波纹，装饰着笨拙的凸台，绿色的硬壳到处都是斑点。我可以看到它复杂的嘴里的许多触须随着它的移动而闪烁和感觉。

‘As I stared at this sinister apparition crawling towards me, I felt a tickling on my cheek as though a fly had lighted there. I tried to brush it away with my hand, but in a moment it returned, and almost immediately came another by my ear. I struck at this, and caught something threadlike. It was drawn swiftly out of my hand. With a frightful qualm, I turned, and I saw that I had grasped the antenna of another monster crab that stood just behind me. Its evil eyes were wriggling on their stalks, its mouth was all alive with appetite, and its vast ungainly claws, smeared with an algal slime, were descending upon me. In a moment my hand was on the lever, and I had placed a month between myself and these monsters. But I was still on the same beach, and I saw them distinctly now as soon as I stopped. Dozens of them seemed to be crawling here and there, in the sombre light, among the foliated sheets of intense green.
“当我凝视着这个邪恶的幽灵向我爬来时，我感到脸颊发痒，好像有一只苍蝇停在了那里。我试图用手把它拂开，但过了一会儿它又回来了，几乎立刻又来到了我的耳边。我敲了一下，发现了一些像线一样的东西。它很快就从我手里被抽走了。带着一种可怕的不安，我转过身来，发现我抓住了站在我身后的另一只巨蟹的触角。它邪恶的眼睛在茎上蠕动，它的嘴巴充满了食欲，它那巨大的、丑陋的、沾满藻类粘液的爪子正向我袭来。刹那间，我的手就放在了操纵杆上，我把自己和这些怪物之间的时间间隔了一个月。但我仍然在同一个海滩上，我一停下来就清楚地看到了它们。在昏暗的灯光下，在深绿色的叶子丛中，有几十只它们似乎在到处爬行。

‘I cannot convey the sense of abominable desolation that hung over the world. The red eastern sky, the northward blackness, the salt Dead Sea, the stony beach crawling with these foul, slow-stirring monsters, the uniform poisonous-looking green of the lichenous plants, the thin air that hurts one’s lungs: all contributed to an appalling effect. I moved on a hundred years, and there was the same red sun—a little larger, a little duller—the same dying sea, the same chill air, and the same crowd of earthy crustacea creeping in and out among the green weed and the red rocks. And in the westward sky, I saw a curved pale line like a vast new moon.
“我无法表达笼罩在世界上空的令人厌恶的荒凉感。东方的红色天空，北方的黑暗，死海的盐分，爬满这些肮脏的、缓慢搅拌的怪物的石滩，地衣植物均匀有毒的绿色，刺痛肺部的稀薄空气：所有这些都促成了效果惨不忍睹。我继续前进了一百年，那里还是同样的红太阳——更大一点，更黯淡一点——同样的濒临死亡的大海，同样寒冷的空气，同样一群土质的甲壳类动物在绿色的杂草和草地中爬进爬出。红色的岩石。而在西边的天空中，我看到了一条弯曲的苍白线，就像一轮巨大的新月。

‘So I travelled, stopping ever and again, in great strides of a thousand years or more, drawn on by the mystery of the earth’s fate, watching with a strange fascination the sun grow larger and duller in the westward sky, and the life of the old earth ebb away. At last, more than thirty million years hence, the huge red-hot dome of the sun had come to obscure nearly a tenth part of the darkling heavens. Then I stopped once more, for the crawling multitude of crabs had disappeared, and the red beach, save for its livid green liverworts and lichens, seemed lifeless. And now it was flecked with white. A bitter cold assailed me. Rare white flakes ever and again came eddying down. To the north-eastward, the glare of snow lay under the starlight of the sable sky and I could see an undulating crest of hillocks pinkish white. There were fringes of ice along the sea margin, with drifting masses further out; but the main expanse of that salt ocean, all bloody under the eternal sunset, was still unfrozen.
于是我一路旅行，一次又一次地停下来，迈着一千年或更久的大步，被地球命运的奥秘所吸引，以一种奇怪的着迷的心情看着太阳在西边的天空中变得更大、更黯淡，以及古老的地球正在消退。最后，三千万年过去了，巨大的、炽热的太阳圆顶遮蔽了黑暗天空的近十分之一。然后我再次停了下来，因为爬行的大量螃蟹已经消失了，红色的海滩上除了青绿色的苔藓和地衣外，似乎毫无生气。现在它上面布满了白色的斑点。一阵刺骨的寒冷向我袭来。稀有的白色雪花一次又一次地旋转着落下来。东北方向，黑夜的星光下闪烁着耀眼的雪花，我可以看到粉白色的起伏的山丘。沿海地区有冰缘，远处还有漂浮的冰块。但那片盐海的主要区域在永恒的夕阳下一片血腥，仍然没有结冰。

‘I looked about me to see if any traces of animal life remained. A certain indefinable apprehension still kept me in the saddle of the machine. But I saw nothing moving, in earth or sky or sea. The green slime on the rocks alone testified that life was not extinct. A shallow sandbank had appeared in the sea and the water had receded from the beach. I fancied I saw some black object flopping about upon this bank, but it became motionless as I looked at it, and I judged that my eye had been deceived, and that the black object was merely a rock. The stars in the sky were intensely bright and seemed to me to twinkle very little.
“我环顾四周，看看是否还有动物生命的痕迹。某种无法形容的忧虑仍然让我坐在机器的鞍座上。但我没有看到任何东西在移动，无论是大地、天空还是海洋。仅岩石上的绿色粘液就证明生命并未灭绝。海里出现了一片浅沙洲，海水已经从海滩退去。我以为我看到河岸上有一个黑色的东西在扑腾，但当我看它的时候，它却一动不动了，我判断我的眼睛被欺骗了，那个黑色的东西只是一块石头。天空中的星星非常明亮，但在我看来却闪烁得很少。

‘Suddenly I noticed that the circular westward outline of the sun had changed; that a concavity, a bay, had appeared in the curve. I saw this grow larger. For a minute perhaps I stared aghast at this blackness that was creeping over the day, and then I realized that an eclipse was beginning. Either the moon or the planet Mercury was passing across the sun’s disk. Naturally, at first I took it to be the moon, but there is much to incline me to believe that what I really saw was the transit of an inner planet passing very near to the earth.
“突然我发现太阳向西的圆形轮廓发生了变化；曲线中出现了一个凹处，一个海湾。我看到它变大了。也许有那么一分钟，我惊愕地盯着一天中蔓延的黑暗，然后我意识到日食正在开始。要么是月球，要么是水星正在穿过太阳的圆盘。当然，一开始我以为它是月球，但有很多东西让我相信我真正看到的是一颗内行星凌日，距离地球非常近。

‘The darkness grew apace; a cold wind began to blow in freshening gusts from the east, and the showering white flakes in the air increased in number. From the edge of the sea came a ripple and whisper. Beyond these lifeless sounds the world was silent. Silent? It would be hard to convey the stillness of it. All the sounds of man, the bleating of sheep, the cries of birds, the hum of insects, the stir that makes the background of our lives—all that was over. As the darkness thickened, the eddying flakes grew more abundant, dancing before my eyes; and the cold of the air more intense. At last, one by one, swiftly, one after the other, the white peaks of the distant hills vanished into blackness. The breeze rose to a moaning wind. I saw the black central shadow of the eclipse sweeping towards me. In another moment the pale stars alone were visible. All else was rayless obscurity. The sky was absolutely black.
“黑暗迅速扩大；一股清新的冷风从东方吹来，空气中飘落的白色雪花越来越多。海的边缘传来一阵涟漪和低语。除了这些死气沉沉的声音之外，世界一片寂静。沉默的？很难表达它的寂静。所有人类的声音、羊的咩咩声、鸟儿的叫声、昆虫的嗡嗡声，以及构成我们生活背景的骚动——一切都结束了。随着夜色越来越浓，漩涡状的雪花越来越多，在我眼前舞动。并且空气的寒冷更加强烈。最后，远处山峰的白色山峰，一栋接着一栋，迅速地，消失在黑暗中。微风变成了呻吟的风。我看到日食的黑色中心阴影向我扫来。过了一会儿，就只剩下苍白的星星了。其他一切都是没有光线的模糊。天空一片漆黑。

‘A horror of this great darkness came on me. The cold, that smote to my marrow, and the pain I felt in breathing, overcame me. I shivered, and a deadly nausea seized me. Then like a red-hot bow in the sky appeared the edge of the sun. I got off the machine to recover myself. I felt giddy and incapable of facing the return journey. As I stood sick and confused I saw again the moving thing upon the shoal—there was no mistake now that it was a moving thing—against the red water of the sea. It was a round thing, the size of a football perhaps, or, it may be, bigger, and tentacles trailed down from it; it seemed black against the weltering blood-red water, and it was hopping fitfully about. Then I felt I was fainting. But a terrible dread of lying helpless in that remote and awful twilight sustained me while I clambered upon the saddle.
“我对这片巨大的黑暗感到恐惧。刺入骨髓的寒冷和呼吸的疼痛压倒了我。我浑身发抖，一阵恶心袭来。然后，太阳的边缘像天空中一道炽热的弓一样出现了。我下了机器恢复体力。我感到头晕，无力面对返程。当我感到恶心和困惑时，我再次看到浅滩上那个移动的东西——现在毫无疑问，它是一个移动的东西——映衬在红色的海水上。那是一个圆形的东西，也许有足球那么大，或者，也可能更大，触手从上面垂下来。在汹涌的血红色海水的映衬下，它看起来呈黑色，并且断断续续地跳来跳去。然后我感觉我要晕倒了。但当我爬上马鞍时，一种对在遥远而可怕的暮色中无助地躺着的可怕恐惧支撑着我。

XII
十二

‘So I came back. For a long time I must have been insensible upon the machine. The blinking succession of the days and nights was resumed, the sun got golden again, the sky blue. I breathed with greater freedom. The fluctuating contours of the land ebbed and flowed. The hands spun backward upon the dials. At last I saw again the dim shadows of houses, the evidences of decadent humanity. These, too, changed and passed, and others came. Presently, when the million dial was at zero, I slackened speed. I began to recognize our own petty and familiar architecture, the thousands hand ran back to the starting-point, the night and day flapped slower and slower. Then the old walls of the laboratory came round me. Very gently, now, I slowed the mechanism down.
‘所以我就回来了。很长一段时间我都对这台机器失去了知觉。白天和黑夜的眨眼又重新开始，太阳又变成金色，天空又变成蓝色。我呼吸更加自由。大地的轮廓起伏不定，潮起潮落。指针在表盘上向后旋转。我终于再次看到了房屋的暗影，这是人类颓废的证据。这些也发生了变化并过去了，其他的也出现了。不久，当百万刻度盘指向零时，我放慢了速度。我开始认出我们自己的渺小而熟悉的建筑，千只手又跑回了起点，黑夜和白天的拍打速度越来越慢。然后实验室的旧墙包围了我。现在，我非常轻轻地减慢了机械装置的速度。

‘I saw one little thing that seemed odd to me. I think I have told you that when I set out, before my velocity became very high, Mrs. Watchett had walked across the room, travelling, as it seemed to me, like a rocket. As I returned, I passed again across that minute when she traversed the laboratory. But now her every motion appeared to be the exact inversion of her previous ones. The door at the lower end opened, and she glided quietly up the laboratory, back foremost, and disappeared behind the door by which she had previously entered. Just before that I seemed to see Hillyer for a moment; but he passed like a flash.
“我看到了一件令我觉得奇怪的小事。我想我已经告诉过你，当我出发时，在我的速度变得非常高之前，沃基特夫人已经穿过房间，在我看来，像火箭一样旅行。当我回来时，我再次穿越了她穿过实验室的那一刻。但现在她的一举一动，似乎都与之前一模一样。下端的门打开了，她悄悄地溜进实验室，回到最前面，消失在她之前进来的门后面。就在这之前，我似乎看到了希利尔。但他却一闪而过。

‘Then I stopped the machine, and saw about me again the old familiar laboratory, my tools, my appliances just as I had left them. I got off the thing very shaky, and sat down upon my bench. For several minutes I trembled violently. Then I became calmer. Around me was my old workshop again, exactly as it had been. I might have slept there, and the whole thing have been a dream.
“然后我停下了机器，再次看到了我熟悉的旧实验室、我的工具、我的器具，就像我离开时一样。我摇摇晃晃地从车上下来，坐在长凳上。我剧烈地颤抖了几分钟。然后我变得平静了。我周围又是我以前的工作室了，一模一样。我可能睡在那里，而整个事情都是一场梦。

‘And yet, not exactly! The thing had started from the south-east corner of the laboratory. It had come to rest again in the north-west, against the wall where you saw it. That gives you the exact distance from my little lawn to the pedestal of the White Sphinx, into which the Morlocks had carried my machine.
'然而，不完全是这样！事情是从实验室的东南角开始的。它又停在了西北方，靠在你看到它的墙上。这给了你从我的小草坪到白色狮身人面像基座的精确距离，莫洛克人把我的机器运到了那里。

‘For a time my brain went stagnant. Presently I got up and came through the passage here, limping, because my heel was still painful, and feeling sorely begrimed. I saw the PALL MALL GAZETTE on the table by the door. I found the date was indeed to-day, and looking at the timepiece, saw the hour was almost eight o’clock. I heard your voices and the clatter of plates. I hesitated—I felt so sick and weak. Then I sniffed good wholesome meat, and opened the door on you. You know the rest. I washed, and dined, and now I am telling you the story.
“有一段时间我的大脑陷入了停滞。不久我起身，一瘸一拐地穿过这里的通道，因为我的脚后跟仍然疼痛，而且感觉很脏。我看到门口桌子上有《颇尔美尔公报》。我发现日期确实是今天，再看表，已经快八点了。我听到了你们的声音和盘子的碰撞声。我犹豫了——我感到非常恶心和虚弱。然后我闻了闻有益健康的肉，并为你打开了门。其余的你都知道。我洗漱、吃饭，现在我给你讲故事。

‘I know,’ he said, after a pause, ‘that all this will be absolutely incredible to you. To me the one incredible thing is that I am here to-night in this old familiar room looking into your friendly faces and telling you these strange adventures.’
“我知道，”他停顿了一下后说道，“这一切对你来说绝对是难以置信的。”对我来说，一件令人难以置信的事情是，今晚我在这个熟悉的旧房间里，看着你们友好的面孔，告诉你们这些奇怪的冒险。

He looked at the Medical Man. ‘No. I cannot expect you to believe it. Take it as a lie—or a prophecy. Say I dreamed it in the workshop. Consider I have been speculating upon the destinies of our race until I have hatched this fiction. Treat my assertion of its truth as a mere stroke of art to enhance its interest. And taking it as a story, what do you think of it?’
他看着医生。 '不。我不能指望你会相信它。把它当作一个谎言——或者一个预言。假设我在工作室里梦见了它。想想看，在我构思出这个小说之前，我一直在猜测我们种族的命运。把我对其真实性的断言视为纯粹的艺术一笔，以增强其兴趣。把它当作一个故事，你觉得怎么样？

He took up his pipe, and began, in his old accustomed manner, to tap with it nervously upon the bars of the grate. There was a momentary stillness. Then chairs began to creak and shoes to scrape upon the carpet. I took my eyes off the Time Traveller’s face, and looked round at his audience. They were in the dark, and little spots of colour swam before them. The Medical Man seemed absorbed in the contemplation of our host. The Editor was looking hard at the end of his cigar—the sixth. The Journalist fumbled for his watch. The others, as far as I remember, were motionless.
他拿起烟斗，开始以他惯常的方式紧张地敲击炉栅的栅栏。一阵寂静。然后椅子开始吱吱作响，鞋子在地毯上刮擦。我把目光从时间旅行者的脸上移开，转而看着他的观众。他们身处黑暗之中，一些小色点在他们面前游动。医生似乎全神贯注于我们主人的沉思。编辑仔细地看着他的雪茄烟头——第六根。记者摸索着寻找手表。据我所知，其他人一动不动。

The Editor stood up with a sigh. ‘What a pity it is you’re not a writer of stories!’ he said, putting his hand on the Time Traveller’s shoulder.
编辑叹了口气站了起来。 “可惜你不是个故事作家！”他把手放在时间旅行者的肩膀上说道。

‘You don’t believe it?’
“你不相信吗？”

‘Well——‘
'出色地 - '

‘I thought not.’
'我以为不是。'

The Time Traveller turned to us. ‘Where are the matches?’ he said. He lit one and spoke over his pipe, puffing. ‘To tell you the truth … I hardly believe it myself…. And yet …’
时间旅行者转向我们。 “火柴在哪里？”他说。他点了一根烟，用烟斗吹着气说道。 “说实话……我自己都不敢相信……”但是 …'

His eye fell with a mute inquiry upon the withered white flowers upon the little table. Then he turned over the hand holding his pipe, and I saw he was looking at some half-healed scars on his knuckles.
他的目光无声地落在小桌子上枯萎的白花上。然后他把拿着烟斗的手翻过来，我看到他正在看着指关节上一些半愈合的伤疤。

The Medical Man rose, came to the lamp, and examined the flowers. ‘The gynaeceum’s odd,’ he said. The Psychologist leant forward to see, holding out his hand for a specimen.
医生站起身来，来到灯前，检查了这些花。 “妇科很奇怪，”他说。心理学家倾身向前看，伸出手去拿样本。

‘I’m hanged if it isn’t a quarter to one,’ said the Journalist. ‘How shall we get home?’
“如果不是四分之一比一，我就会被绞死，”记者说。 “我们怎样回家？”

‘Plenty of cabs at the station,’ said the Psychologist.
“车站有很多出租车，”心理学家说。

‘It’s a curious thing,’ said the Medical Man; ‘but I certainly don’t know the natural order of these flowers. May I have them?’
“这真是一件奇怪的事，”医生说。 “但我当然不知道这些花的自然顺序。我可以要它们吗？

The Time Traveller hesitated. Then suddenly: ‘Certainly not.’
时间旅行者犹豫了。然后突然说：“当然不是。”

‘Where did you really get them?’ said the Medical Man.
“你到底是从哪里得到它们的？”医生问道。

The Time Traveller put his hand to his head. He spoke like one who was trying to keep hold of an idea that eluded him. ‘They were put into my pocket by Weena, when I travelled into Time.’ He stared round the room. ‘I’m damned if it isn’t all going. This room and you and the atmosphere of every day is too much for my memory. Did I ever make a Time Machine, or a model of a Time Machine? Or is it all only a dream? They say life is a dream, a precious poor dream at times—but I can’t stand another that won’t fit. It’s madness. And where did the dream come from? … I must look at that machine. If there is one!’
时间旅行者把手放在头上。他说话的语气就像一个试图抓住一个他无法理解的想法的人。 “当我进入时间时，它们被维娜放进了我的口袋里。”他环视着房间。 ‘如果事情不顺利的话我就该死了。这个房间，你，还有每天的气氛，都让我记忆犹新。我曾经制造过时间机器，或者时间机器的模型吗？或者这一切只是一场梦？他们说生活是一场梦，有时是一个珍贵而可怜的梦——但我无法忍受另一个不合适的梦。这太疯狂了。而梦想从何而来？ ……我必须看看那台机器。如果有的话！

He caught up the lamp swiftly, and carried it, flaring red, through the door into the corridor. We followed him. There in the flickering light of the lamp was the machine sure enough, squat, ugly, and askew; a thing of brass, ebony, ivory, and translucent glimmering quartz. Solid to the touch—for I put out my hand and felt the rail of it—and with brown spots and smears upon the ivory, and bits of grass and moss upon the lower parts, and one rail bent awry.
他迅速拿起那盏发出红光的灯，穿过门进入走廊。我们跟着他。在闪烁的灯光下，果然有那台机器，矮胖、丑陋、歪斜。黄铜、乌木、象牙和半透明的闪闪发光的石英制成的东西。摸上去很坚固——因为我伸出手摸到了它的栏杆——象牙上有棕色的斑点和污迹，下部有一些草和苔藓，还有一根栏杆歪了。

The Time Traveller put the lamp down on the bench, and ran his hand along the damaged rail. ‘It’s all right now,’ he said. ‘The story I told you was true. I’m sorry to have brought you out here in the cold.’ He took up the lamp, and, in an absolute silence, we returned to the smoking-room.
时间旅行者把灯放在长凳上，用手抚摸损坏的栏杆。 “现在没事了，”他说。 ‘我告诉你的故事是真的。我很抱歉在寒冷的天气里把你带到这里来。”他拿起灯，然后，在绝对的沉默中，我们回到了吸烟室。

He came into the hall with us and helped the Editor on with his coat. The Medical Man looked into his face and, with a certain hesitation, told him he was suffering from overwork, at which he laughed hugely. I remember him standing in the open doorway, bawling good night.
他和我们一起走进大厅，帮编辑穿上外套。医生看着他的脸，有些犹豫地告诉他，他是过度劳累了，他哈哈大笑。我记得他站在敞开的门口，大声喊道晚安。

I shared a cab with the Editor. He thought the tale a ‘gaudy lie.’ For my own part I was unable to come to a conclusion. The story was so fantastic and incredible, the telling so credible and sober. I lay awake most of the night thinking about it. I determined to go next day and see the Time Traveller again. I was told he was in the laboratory, and being on easy terms in the house, I went up to him. The laboratory, however, was empty. I stared for a minute at the Time Machine and put out my hand and touched the lever. At that the squat substantial-looking mass swayed like a bough shaken by the wind. Its instability startled me extremely, and I had a queer reminiscence of the childish days when I used to be forbidden to meddle. I came back through the corridor. The Time Traveller met me in the smoking-room. He was coming from the house. He had a small camera under one arm and a knapsack under the other. He laughed when he saw me, and gave me an elbow to shake. ‘I’m frightfully busy,’ said he, ‘with that thing in there.’
我和编辑共用一辆出租车。他认为这个故事是一个“华而不实的谎言”。就我而言，我无法得出结论。这个故事是如此的精彩和令人难以置信，讲述的故事是如此的可信和清醒。我大半夜都在想这件事。我决定第二天再去看看时间旅行者。有人告诉我他在实验室，我在家里相处得很融洽，于是我走到他跟前。然而，实验室空无一人。我盯着时间机器看了一会儿，然后伸出手触摸了控制杆。在那一刻，那团看起来很厚重的东西像被风吹动的树枝一样摇晃起来。它的不稳定让我大吃一惊，我奇怪地想起了那些不准我插手的童年时光。我穿过走廊回来了。时间旅行者在吸烟室遇见了我。他正从房子里出来。他一只胳膊下夹着一台小相机，另一只胳膊下夹着一个背包。他一看到我就笑了，并用胳膊肘摇晃我。 “我忙得要命，”他说，“为了那东西。”

‘But is it not some hoax?’ I said. ‘Do you really travel through time?’
“但这不是骗局吗？”我说。 “你真的能穿越时空吗？”

‘Really and truly I do.’ And he looked frankly into my eyes. He hesitated. His eye wandered about the room. ‘I only want half an hour,’ he said. ‘I know why you came, and it’s awfully good of you. There’s some magazines here. If you’ll stop to lunch I’ll prove you this time travelling up to the hilt, specimen and all. If you’ll forgive my leaving you now?’
“我真的真的。”他坦率地看着我的眼睛。他犹豫了。他的目光在房间里扫视着。 “我只想要半个小时，”他说。 “我知道你为什么来，你真是太好了。这里有一些杂志。如果你能停下来吃午饭，这次我将向你证明，这次旅行将包括标本在内。你能原谅我现在离开你吗？

I consented, hardly comprehending then the full import of his words, and he nodded and went on down the corridor. I heard the door of the laboratory slam, seated myself in a chair, and took up a daily paper. What was he going to do before lunch-time? Then suddenly I was reminded by an advertisement that I had promised to meet Richardson, the publisher, at two. I looked at my watch, and saw that I could barely save that engagement. I got up and went down the passage to tell the Time Traveller.
我同意了，但当时还不太理解他的话的全部含义，他点点头，继续沿着走廊走。我听到实验室的门关上，我坐在椅子上，拿起一份日报。午餐时间之前他要做什么？突然，一则广告提醒我，我曾答应在两点与出版商理查森会面。我看了看手表，发现我几乎无法挽救这个约定。我站起来，沿着通道去告诉时间旅行者。

As I took hold of the handle of the door I heard an exclamation, oddly truncated at the end, and a click and a thud. A gust of air whirled round me as I opened the door, and from within came the sound of broken glass falling on the floor. The Time Traveller was not there. I seemed to see a ghostly, indistinct figure sitting in a whirling mass of black and brass for a moment—a figure so transparent that the bench behind with its sheets of drawings was absolutely distinct; but this phantasm vanished as I rubbed my eyes. The Time Machine had gone. Save for a subsiding stir of dust, the further end of the laboratory was empty. A pane of the skylight had, apparently, just been blown in.
当我握住门把手时，我听到一声惊呼，最后被奇怪地截断了，然后是咔哒声和砰的一声。当我打开门时，一股气流在我周围旋转，从里面传来玻璃碎掉在地板上的声音。时间旅行者并不在那里。有一瞬间，我似乎看到一个幽灵般、模糊的人影坐在一团旋转的黑色和黄铜中——这个人影如此透明，以至于后面的长凳上的图画都清晰可见；但当我揉揉眼睛时，这种幻觉就消失了。时间机器已经消失了。除了正在下落的尘埃，实验室的另一端空无一人。显然，天窗的一块玻璃刚刚被炸飞了。

I felt an unreasonable amazement. I knew that something strange had happened, and for the moment could not distinguish what the strange thing might be. As I stood staring, the door into the garden opened, and the man-servant appeared.
我感到一种莫名的惊讶。我知道发生了一些奇怪的事情，但一时无法辨别到底是什么奇怪的事情。当我站在那里凝视时，花园的门打开了，男仆出现了。

We looked at each other. Then ideas began to come. ‘Has Mr. —— gone out that way?’ said I.
我们面面相觑。然后想法开始出现。 “……先生是从那条路出去的吗？”我问道。

‘No, sir. No one has come out this way. I was expecting to find him here.’
'不，先生。没有人以这种方式走出来。我原以为能在这里找到他。

At that I understood. At the risk of disappointing Richardson I stayed on, waiting for the Time Traveller; waiting for the second, perhaps still stranger story, and the specimens and photographs he would bring with him. But I am beginning now to fear that I must wait a lifetime. The Time Traveller vanished three years ago. And, as everybody knows now, he has never returned.
这时我明白了。冒着让理查森失望的风险，我留下来，等待时间旅行者。等待第二个也许更奇怪的故事，以及他带来的标本和照片。但我现在开始担心我必须等待一生。时间旅行者三年前消失了。而且，现在大家都知道，他再也没有回来。

EPILOGUE
结语

One cannot choose but wonder. Will he ever return? It may be that he swept back into the past, and fell among the blood-drinking, hairy savages of the Age of Unpolished Stone; into the abysses of the Cretaceous Sea; or among the grotesque saurians, the huge reptilian brutes of the Jurassic times. He may even now—if I may use the phrase—be wandering on some plesiosaurus-haunted Oolitic coral reef, or beside the lonely saline lakes of the Triassic Age. Or did he go forward, into one of the nearer ages, in which men are still men, but with the riddles of our own time answered and its wearisome problems solved? Into the manhood of the race: for I, for my own part cannot think that these latter days of weak experiment, fragmentary theory, and mutual discord are indeed man’s culminating time! I say, for my own part. He, I know—for the question had been discussed among us long before the Time Machine was made—thought but cheerlessly of the Advancement of Mankind, and saw in the growing pile of civilization only a foolish heaping that must inevitably fall back upon and destroy its makers in the end. If that is so, it remains for us to live as though it were not so. But to me the future is still black and blank—is a vast ignorance, lit at a few casual places by the memory of his story. And I have by me, for my comfort, two strange white flowers —shrivelled now, and brown and flat and brittle—to witness that even when mind and strength had gone, gratitude and a mutual tenderness still lived on in the heart of man.
人们除了好奇之外别无选择。他还会回来吗？也许他回到了过去，落入了原石时代的饮血、毛茸茸的野蛮人之中；进入白垩纪海的深渊；或者是怪诞的蜥蜴类，即侏罗纪时代的巨大爬行动物。他现在甚至可能——如果我可以用这个词——在一些蛇颈龙出没的鲕粒珊瑚礁上，或者在三叠纪时代孤独的盐湖边徘徊。或者他是否继续前进，进入了一个更近的时代，在这个时代中，人仍然是人，但我们这个时代的谜团得到了解答，令人厌烦的问题也得到了解决？进入人类的成年期：对我来说，就我自己而言，不能认为这些实验薄弱、理论支离破碎、相互不和的后期时代确实是人类的顶峰时期！我说，就我个人而言。我知道，他——因为早在时间机器制造出来之前我们就已经讨论过这个问题——对人类的进步充满了乐观的想法，并且在不断增长的文明堆中只看到了愚蠢的堆积物，不可避免地会倒塌并毁灭。最终它的制造者。如果真是这样，我们就只能像事实并非如此一样生活。但对我来说，未来仍然是黑暗和空白的——是一种巨大的无知，在一些不经意的地方被他的故事的记忆点燃。为了安慰我，我身边有两朵奇怪的白花——现在枯萎了，呈棕色，扁平而易碎——见证即使思想和力量消失，感激和相互的温柔仍然存在于人们的心中。