
The Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde
杰基尔博士与海德先生的奇案

By Robert Louis Stevenson
罗伯特·路易斯·史蒂文森

STORY OF THE DOOR
门的故事

MR. UTTERSON the lawyer was a man of a rugged countenance, that was never lighted by a smile; cold, scanty and embarrassed in discourse; backward in sentiment; lean, long, dusty, dreary, and yet somehow lovable. At friendly meetings, and when the wine was to his taste, something eminently human beaconed from his eye; something indeed which never found its way into his talk, but which spoke not only in these silent symbols of the after-dinner face, but more often and loudly in the acts of his life. He was austere with himself; drank gin when he was alone, to mortify a taste for vintages; and though he enjoyed the theatre, had not crossed the doors of one for twenty years. But he had an approved tolerance for others; sometimes wondering, almost with envy, at the high pressure of spirits involved in their misdeeds; and in any extremity inclined to help rather than to reprove.
先生。律师厄特森是一个面容粗犷的人，脸上从来没有笑容。言语冷淡、寡言、尴尬；情绪落后；瘦长、长长、布满灰尘、沉闷，但不知何故可爱。在友好的会议上，当酒合他的口味时，他的眼睛里就会闪现出一种非常人性化的东西。确实，这种东西从未出现在他的谈话中，但它不仅在餐后脸上这些无声的象征中说话，而且在他的生活中更经常、更响亮地说话。他对自己很严厉。当他独自一人时，他会喝杜松子酒，以抑制对葡萄酒的兴趣。尽管他喜欢看戏剧，但已经二十年没有踏进过剧院的大门了。但他对他人有着宽容的态度。有时，他们对自己的罪行所承受的巨大精神压力感到惊讶，甚至有些嫉妒。并且在任何极端情况下都倾向于帮助而不是责备。

‘I incline to, Cain’s heresy,’ he used to say. ‘I let my brother go to the devil in his quaintly: ‘own way.’ In this character, it was frequently his fortune to be the last reputable acquaintance and the last good influence in the lives of down-going men. And to such as these, so long as they came about his chambers, he never marked a shade of change in his demeanour.
“我倾向于该隐的异端邪说，”他常说。 “我让我的兄弟以他古怪的方式走向魔鬼：‘以自己的方式’。在这种性格中，他常常很幸运地成为下层人物生活中最后一个有信誉的熟人和最后一个良好的影响力。对于这些人，只要他们来到他的房间，他的举止就没有任何变化。

No doubt the feat was easy to Mr. Utterson; for he was undemonstrative at the best, and even his friendship seemed to be founded in a similar catholicity of good-nature. It is the mark of a modest man to accept his friendly circle ready-made from the hands of opportunity; and that was the lawyer’s way. His friends were those of his own blood or those whom he had known the longest; his affections, like ivy, were the growth of time, they implied no aptness in the object. Hence, no doubt, the bond that united him to Mr. Richard Enfield, his distant kinsman, the well-known man about town. It was a nut to crack for many, what these two could see in each other, or what subject they could find in common. It was reported by those who encountered them in their Sunday walks, that they said nothing, looked singularly dull, and would hail with obvious relief the appearance of a friend. For all that, the two men put the greatest store by these excursions, counted them the chief jewel of each week, and not only set aside occasions of pleasure, but even resisted the calls of business, that they might enjoy them uninterrupted.
毫无疑问，这一壮举对厄特森先生来说是轻而易举的。因为他充其量是沉默寡言的，甚至他的友谊似乎也建立在类似的善良本性之上。谦虚的人的标志是接受机遇之手现成的友好圈子。这就是律师的方式。他的朋友是那些与他有血缘关系的人，或者是那些他认识时间最长的人。他的感情就像常春藤一样，是随着时间的推移而增长的，它们并不意味着对象的适当性。因此，毫无疑问，他与理查德·恩菲尔德先生（他的远房亲戚，镇上的名人）之间的纽带将他联系在一起。对于很多人来说，这两个人能从对方身上看到什么，或者他们能找到什么共同点，都是一个难题。据那些在周日散步时遇到他们的人报告，他们什么也没说，看起来异常迟钝，并且会因朋友的出现而明显松一口气。尽管如此，两人还是非常重视这些旅行，将其视为每周的主要瑰宝，不仅搁置了享乐的机会，甚至抵制了公务的召唤，以便他们可以不间断地享受它们。

It chanced on one of these rambles that their way led them down a by-street in a busy quarter of London. The street was small and what is called quiet, but it drove a thriving trade on the week-days. The inhabitants were all doing well, it seemed, and all emulously hoping to do better still, and laying out the surplus of their gains in coquetry; so that the shop fronts stood along that thoroughfare with an air of invitation, like rows of smiling saleswomen. Even on Sunday, when it veiled its more florid charms and lay comparatively empty of passage, the street shone out in contrast to its dingy neighbourhood, like a fire in a forest; and with its freshly painted shutters, well-polished brasses, and general cleanliness and gaiety of note, instantly caught and pleased the eye of the passenger.
一次偶然的机会，他们沿着伦敦繁忙地区的一条小街走下去。街道虽小，所谓的安静，但平日里却带动了生意的兴隆。居民们似乎都过得很好，而且都争先恐后地希望做得更好，并把多余的收获摆在卖弄风骚的场合。因此，大街上的店铺门面都带着一种邀请的气氛，就像一排排微笑的女售货员。即使在周日，当它掩盖了它更加华丽的魅力并且相对空旷的通道时，这条街与它肮脏的街区形成鲜明对比，就像森林中的一团火；其新油漆的百叶窗、擦得锃亮的黄铜以及整体的清洁和欢乐，立即吸引了乘客的目光并取悦了乘客。

Two doors from one corner, on the left hand going east, the line was broken by the entry of a court; and just at that point, a certain sinister block of building thrust forward its gable on the street. It was two stories high; showed no window, nothing but a door on the lower story and a blind forehead of discoloured wall on the upper; and bore in every feature, the marks of prolonged and sordid negligence. The door, which was equipped with neither bell nor knocker, was blistered and distained. Tramps slouched into the recess and struck matches on
从一个角落开始有两扇门，左边向东，这条线被一个庭院的入口打破了。就在那时，一座险恶的建筑群将其山墙推到了街道上。它有两层楼高；没有窗户，只有下层的一扇门和上层褪色墙壁的盲目前额；每一个特征都带有长期和肮脏的疏忽的痕迹。这扇门既没有门铃，也没有门环，已经起泡，污迹斑斑。流浪汉们无精打采地钻进凹处，在上面划火柴。

the panels; children kept shop upon the steps; the schoolboy had tried his knife on the mouldings; and for close on a generation, no one had appeared to drive away these random visitors or to repair their ravages.
面板；孩子们在台阶上购物；那个男生曾用刀子尝试过装饰线条。近一代人以来，似乎没有人赶走这些随机访客或修复他们的破坏。

Mr. Enfield and the lawyer were on the other side of the by-street; but when they came abreast of the entry, the former lifted up his cane and pointed.
恩菲尔德先生和律师在小街的另一边。但当他们来到入口处时，前者举起手杖指了指。

‘Did you ever remark that door?’ he asked; and when his companion had replied in the affirmative, ‘It is connected in my mind,’ added he, ‘with a very odd story.’
“你注意到那扇门了吗？”他问道。当他的同伴做出肯定的回答时，他补充道：“在我看来，这与一个非常奇怪的故事有关。”

‘Indeed?’ said Mr. Utterson, with a slight change of voice, ‘and what was that?’
“确实如此？”厄特森先生声音略有变化，“那是什么？”

‘Well, it was this way,’ returned Mr. Enfield: ‘I was coming home from some place at the end of the world, about three o’ clock of a black winter morning, and my way lay through a part of town where there was literally nothing to be seen but lamps. Street after street, and all the folks asleep — street after street, all lighted up as if for a procession and all as empty as a church — till at last I got into that state of mind when a man listens and listens and begins to long for the sight of a policeman. All at once, I saw two figures: one a little man who was stumping along eastward at a good walk, and the other a girl of maybe eight or ten who was running as hard as she was able down a cross street. Well, sir, the two ran into one another naturally enough at the
“嗯，事情是这样的，”恩菲尔德先生回答道，“大约在一个黑色的冬日早晨三点钟左右，我从世界尽头的某个地方回家，我的路途经城镇的一部分，那里有除了灯之外，实际上什么也看不见。一条又一条街，所有的人都睡着了——一条又一条街，都灯火通明，仿佛在游行，又像教堂一样空荡荡——直到最后我进入了一种心态，一个人听啊听，开始长长的思考。为了警察的视线。突然，我看到了两个人影：一个是一个小个子男人，正艰难地向东走去，另一个是一个八岁或十岁的女孩，她正在十字路口拼命地奔跑。好吧，先生，两人在酒吧里很自然地相遇了。

corner; and then came the horrible part of the thing; for the man trampled calmly over the, child’s body and left her screaming on the ground. It sounds nothing to hear, but it was hellish to see. It wasn’t like a man; it was like some damned Juggernaut. I gave a view-halloa, took to my heels, collared my gentleman, and brought him back to where there was already quite a group about the screaming child. He was perfectly cool and made no resistance, but gave me one look, so ugly that it brought out the sweat on me like running. The people who had turned out were the girl’s own family; and pretty soon, the doctor, for whom she had been sent, put in his appearance. Well, the child was not much the worse, more frightened, according to the Sawbones; and there you might have supposed would be an end to it. But there was one curious circumstance. I had taken a loathing to my gentleman at first sight. So had the child’s family, which was only natural. But the doctor’s case was what struck me. He was the usual cut-and-dry apothecary, of no particular age and colour, with a strong Edinburgh accent, and about as emotional as a bagpipe. Well, sir, he was like the rest of us; every time he looked at my prisoner, I saw that Sawbones turn sick and white with the desire to kill him. I knew what was in his mind, just as he knew what was in mine; and killing being out of the question, we did the next best. We told the man we could
角落;然后事情的可怕部分就来了；这名男子平静地踩在了孩子的身上，留下她在地上尖叫。听起来没什么，但看到却令人毛骨悚然。它不像一个人；它不像一个人。就像一些该死的主宰。我打了个招呼，然后站起来，给我的绅士戴上项圈，带他回到那儿，那里已经有一大群人围着那个尖叫的孩子了。他很冷静，没有任何反抗，只是看了我一眼，丑陋得让我像跑步一样出汗。出来的人都是女孩的家人。很快，她被派去见的医生就出现了。好吧，根据锯骨夫妇的说法，孩子并没有变得更糟，也没有更害怕。你可能以为事情到此就结束了。但有一个奇怪的情况。我第一眼看到我的先生就感到厌恶。孩子的家人也是如此，这是很自然的。但医生的案例让我印象深刻。他是个普通的药剂师，没有特定的年龄和肤色，带有浓重的爱丁堡口音，情绪像风笛一样情绪化。嗯，先生，他就像我们其他人一样；每当他看着我的囚犯时，我都看到索伯恩斯脸色苍白，想要杀死他。我知道他在想什么，就像他知道我在想什么一样；杀戮是不可能的，我们只能退而求其次。我们告诉那个人我们可以

and would make such a scandal out of this, as should make his name stink from one end of London to the other. If he had any friends or any credit, we undertook that he should lose them. And all the time, as we were pitching it in red hot, we were keeping the women off him as best we could, for they were as wild as harpies. I never saw a circle of such hateful faces; and there was the man in the middle, with a kind of black, sneering coolness — frightened too, I could see that — but carrying it off, sir, really like Satan. ‘If you choose to make capital out of this accident,’ said he, ‘I am naturally helpless. No gentleman but wishes to avoid a scene,’ says he. ‘Name your figure.’ Well, we screwed him up to a hundred pounds for the child’s family; he would have clearly liked to stick out; but there was something about the lot of us that meant mischief, and at last he struck. The next thing was to get the money; and where do you think he carried us but to that place with the door? — whipped out a key, went in, and presently came back with the matter of ten pounds in gold and a cheque for the balance on Coutts’s, drawn payable to bearer and signed with a name that I can’t mention, though it’s one of the points of my story, but it was a name at least very well known and often printed. The figure was stiff; but the signature was good for more than that, if it was only genuine. I took the liberty of pointing out to my gentleman that the whole
他会因此闹出一桩丑闻，让他的名声从伦敦的一端传到另一端。如果他有任何朋友或任何功劳，我们保证他应该失去他们。一直以来，当我们把事情搞得火热时，我们都尽可能地让女人远离他，因为她们像鹰身女妖一样狂野。我从来没有见过一圈如此可恨的面孔；中间那个人，带着一种黑色的、冷嘲热讽的冷酷——我也看得出来，他也很害怕——但是，先生，他真的很像撒旦。 “如果你选择利用这次事故来赚钱，”他说道，“我自然是无能为力的。”没有哪个绅士会希望避免出现场面，”他说。 “说出你的身材。”好吧，我们为孩子的家人给了他一百英镑；他显然想脱颖而出；但我们中的一些人都有些恶作剧，最后他出击了。接下来的事情就是拿到钱；除了那个有门的地方，你认为他会把我们带到哪里？ ——掏出一把钥匙，进去，很快就带着十英镑的黄金和一张库茨银行的余额支票回来了，支票抬头为持票人，签名的名字我不能提及，尽管它是其中之一。我的故事的要点，但这个名字至少是众所周知并且经常被印刷的。身形僵硬；但如果签名是真的的话，其作用还不止于此。我冒昧地向我的先生指出整个

business looked apocryphal, and that a man does not, in real life, walk into a cellar door at four in the morning and come out of it with another man’s cheque for close upon a hundred pounds. But he was quite easy and sneering. ‘Set your mind at rest,’ says he, ‘I will stay with you till the banks open and cash the cheque myself.’ So we all set off, the doctor, and the child’s father, and our friend and myself, and passed the rest of the night in my chambers; and next day, when we had breakfasted, went in a body to the bank. I gave in the check myself, and said I had every reason to believe it was a forgery. Not a bit of it. The cheque was genuine.’
生意看起来很虚构，而且在现实生活中，一个人不会在凌晨四点走进地窖门，然后带着另一个人的接近一百英镑的支票走出去。但他却很轻松，冷笑。 “放心吧，”他说，“我会一直陪着你，直到银行开门，然后我亲自兑现支票。”于是我们就出发了，医生、孩子的父亲、我们的朋友和我自己，然后就过去了。余下的夜晚都在我的房间里；第二天，我们吃完早餐后，就集体去了银行。我亲自交出了支票，并说我有充分的理由相信这是一张伪造的支票。一点也没有。这张支票是真的。”

‘Tut-tut,’ said Mr. Utterson.
“啧啧，”厄特森先生说。

‘I see you feel as I do,’ said Mr. Enfield. ‘Yes, it’s a bad story. For my man was a fellow that nobody could have to do with, a really damnable man; and the person that drew the cheque is the very pink of the proprieties, celebrated too, and (what makes it worse) one of your fellows who do what they call good. Black-mail, I suppose; an honest man paying through the nose for some of the capers of his youth. Black-Mail House is what I call that place with the door, in consequence. Though even that, you know, is far from explaining all,’ he added, and with the words fell into a vein of musing.
“我明白你的感受和我一样，”恩菲尔德先生说。 “是的，这是一个糟糕的故事。因为我的男人是一个没人能与之打交道的人，一个真正该死的人；开支票的人是礼仪中的粉红，也很受人尊敬，而且（更糟糕的是）你的同事之一做了他们所谓的善事。我想是敲诈勒索；一个诚实的人为他年轻时的一些胡闹付出了高昂的代价。因此，我把那个有门的地方称为“黑邮件屋”。不过，你知道，即便如此，也远远不能解释一切。”他补充道，说完，他陷入了沉思。

From this he was recalled by Mr. Utterson asking rather suddenly:’ And you don’t know if the drawer of the cheque lives there?’
厄特森先生回忆起他突然问道：“你不知道支票抽屉是否住在那儿？”

‘A likely place, isn’t it?’ returned Mr. Enfield. ‘But I happen to have noticed his address; he lives in some square or other.’
“一个可能的地方，不是吗？”恩菲尔德先生回答道。 “但我碰巧注意到了他的地址；他住在某个广场或那个广场。

‘And you never asked about the — place with the door?’ said Mr. Utterson.
“你从来没有问过那个——有门的地方？”厄特森先生说。

‘No, sir: I had a delicacy,’ was the reply. ‘I feel very strongly about putting questions; it partakes too much of the style of the day of judgment. You start a question, and it’s like starting a stone. You sit quietly on the top of a hill; and away the stone goes, starting others; and presently some bland old bird (the last you would have thought of) is knocked on the head in his own back-garden and the family have to change their name. No, sir, I make it a rule of mine: the more it looks like Queer Street, the less I ask.’
“不，先生：我有一道美味佳肴，”他回答道。 “我非常想提出问题；它太具有审判日的风格。你提出一个问题，就像开始一块石头一样。你静静地坐在山顶；石头离开了，又开始了其他的石头；不久，一只平淡无奇的老鸟（你最后想到的）在他自己的后花园里被敲了头，这家人不得不改变他们的名字。不，先生，我给自己定了一条规则：它越像酷儿街，我的要求就越少。

‘ A very good rule, too,’ said the lawyer.
“这也是一条非常好的规则，”律师说。

‘But I have studied the place for myself,’ continued Mr. Enfield.’ It seems scarcely a house. There is no other door, and nobody goes in or out of that one but, once in a great while, the gentleman of my adventure. There are three windows looking on the court on the first floor; none below; the windows are always shut but they’re clean. And then there is a chimney which is generally smoking; so somebody must live there. And yet it’s not so sure; for the buildings are so packed together about that court, that it’s hard to say where one ends and another begins.’
“但我亲自研究过这个地方，”恩菲尔德先生继续说。“它看起来几乎不是一座房子。”没有其他门，除了我冒险的那位绅士之外，没有人进出那扇门。一楼有三扇窗户面向球场；以下没有；窗户总是关着的，但很干净。然后还有一个烟囱，一般都是冒着烟的；所以必须有人住在那里。但还不太确定；因为法院周围的建筑物挤在一起，很难说一处是哪里结束，另一处是从哪里开始。

The pair walked on again for a while in silence; and then, ‘Enfield,’ said Mr. Utterson, ‘that’s a good rule of yours.’
两人又沉默地走了一会儿。然后，“恩菲尔德，”厄特森先生说，“这是你的一条很好的规则。”

‘Yes, I think it is,’ returned Enfield.
“是的，我想是的，”恩菲尔德回答道。

‘But for all that,’ continued the lawyer, ‘there’s one point I want to ask: I want to ask the name of that man who walked over the child.’
“但尽管如此，”律师继续说道，“有一点我想问：我想问那个踩过孩子的人的名字。”

‘Well,’ said Mr. Enfield, ‘I can’t see what harm it would do. It was a man of the name of Hyde.’
“好吧，”恩菲尔德先生说，“我看不出这会造成什么伤害。”这是一个名叫海德的人。

‘H’m,’ said Mr. Utterson. ‘What sort of a man is he to see?’
“嗯，”厄特森先生说。 “他是什么样的人？”

‘He is not easy to describe. There is something wrong with his appearance; something displeasing, something downright detestable. I never saw a man I so disliked, and yet I scarce know why. He must be deformed somewhere; he gives a strong feeling of deformity, although I couldn’t specify the point. He’s an extraordinary-looking man, and yet I really can name nothing out of the way. No, sir; I can make no hand of it; I can’t describe him. And it’s not want of memory; for I declare I can see him this moment.’
‘他不容易描述。他的外表有问题；一些令人不快的事情，一些彻头彻尾的令人厌恶的事情。我从未见过一个我如此不喜欢的人，但我几乎不知道为什么。他肯定有什么地方变形了；他给人一种强烈的畸形感，尽管我无法具体说明这一点。他是一个相貌非凡的男人，但我真的无法说出任何特别的名字。不，先生;我无能为力；我无法描述他。这并不是缺乏记忆，而是缺乏记忆。因为我宣布我现在就能见到他。

Mr. Utterson again walked some way in silence and obviously under a weight of consideration.
厄特森先生再次沉默地走了一段路，显然是在深思熟虑。

‘You are sure he used a key?’ he inquired at last.
“你确定他用了钥匙？”他最后问道。

‘My dear sir...’ began Enfield, surprised out of himself.
“我亲爱的先生……”恩菲尔德开口说道，他自己都感到很惊讶。

‘Yes, I know,’ said Utterson; ‘I know it must seem strange. The fact is, if I do not ask you the name of the other party, it is because I know it already. You see, Richard, your tale has gone home. If you have been inexact in any point, you had better correct it.’
“是的，我知道，”厄特森说。 “我知道这看起来一定很奇怪。事实上，如果我不问你对方的名字，那是因为我已经知道了。你看，理查德，你的故事已经成功了。如果你在任何一点上不准确，你最好纠正它。

‘I think you might have warned me,’ returned the other, with a touch of sullenness. ‘But I have been pedantically exact, as you call it. The fellow had a key; and what’s more, he has it still. I saw him use it, not a week ago.
“我想你可能已经警告过我了，”另一个人带着一丝阴沉地回答道。 “但正如你所说，我一直很迂腐地精确。那家伙有一把钥匙；更重要的是，他仍然拥有它。我看到他使用它，不是一周前。

Mr. Utterson sighed deeply but said never a word; and the young man presently resumed. ‘Here is another lesson to say nothing,’ said he. ‘I am ashamed of my long tongue. Let us make a bargain never to refer to this again.’
厄特森先生深深地叹了口气，但什么也没说。年轻人很快又恢复了。 “这是另一个教训，什么也不说，”他说。 “我为自己的长舌头感到羞愧。让我们达成协议，不再提及这件事。

‘With all my heart,’ said the lawyer. ‘I shake hands on that, Richard.’
“我全心全意，”律师说。 “我对此表示握手，理查德。”

SEARCH FOR MR. HYDE
寻找先生。海德

THAT evening Mr. Utterson came home to his bachelor house in sombre spirits and sat down to dinner without relish. It was his custom of a Sunday, when this meal was over, to sit close by the fire, a volume of some dry divinity on his reading-desk, until the clock of the neighbouring church rang out the hour of twelve, when he would go soberly and gratefully to bed. On this night, however, as soon as the cloth was taken away, he took up a candle and went into his business-room. There he opened his safe, took from the most private part of it a document endorsed on the envelope as Dr. Jekyll’s Will, and sat down with a clouded brow to study its contents. The will was holograph, for Mr. Utterson, though he took charge of it now that it was made, had refused to lend the least assistance in the making of it; it provided not only that, in case of the decease of Henry Jekyll, M.D., D.C.L., LL.D., F.R.S., etc., all his possessions were to pass into the hands of his ‘friend and benefactor Edward Hyde,’ but that in case of
那天晚上，厄特森先生心情郁闷地回到单身汉家里，毫无兴致地坐下来吃晚饭。他周日的习惯是，当这顿饭结束后，他会坐在火边，阅读桌上放一本枯燥的神学书籍，直到邻近教堂的时钟敲响十二点钟，这时他才开始阅读。清醒而感激地上床睡觉。然而这天晚上，布一被拿走，他就拿起蜡烛走进了自己的营业室。在那里，他打开了保险箱，从里面最私密的部分取出一份文件，信封上注明为杰基尔博士的遗嘱，然后阴沉着眉头坐下来研究里面的内容。遗嘱是全息的，因为厄特森先生虽然在遗嘱制定后就负责了遗嘱，但拒绝在遗嘱的制定过程中提供哪怕一丁点帮助。它不仅规定，如果亨利·杰基尔（医学博士、D.C.L.、LL.D.、F.R.S.等）去世，他的所有财产将移交给他的“朋友和恩人爱德华·海德”手中，而且还规定的情况下

Dr. Jekyll’s ‘disappearance or unexplained absence for any period exceeding three calendar months,’ the said Edward Hyde should step into the said Henry Jekyll’s shoes without further delay and free from any burthen or obligation, beyond the payment of a few small sums to the members of the doctor’s household. This document had long been the lawyer’s eyesore. It offended him both as a lawyer and as a lover of the sane and customary sides of life, to whom the fanciful was the immodest. And hitherto it was his ignorance of Mr. Hyde that had swelled his indignation; now, by a sudden turn, it was his knowledge. It was already bad enough when the name was but a name of which he could learn no more. It was worse when it began to be clothed upon with detestable attributes; and out of the shifting, insubstantial mists that had so long baffled his eye, there leaped up the sudden, definite presentment of a fiend.
杰基尔博士“失踪或不明原因缺席超过三个日历月”，爱德华·海德应该立即接替亨利·杰基尔博士，除了向该机构支付几笔小额款项外，他不承担任何负担或义务。医生家庭成员。这份文件长期以来一直是律师的眼中钉。作为一名律师和一个热爱生活的理智和习惯方面的人，这冒犯了他，对他来说，幻想是不谦虚的。迄今为止，正是他对海德先生的无知加剧了他的愤慨。现在，突然间，这就是他的知识了。当这个名字只是一个他无法再了解的名字时，这已经够糟糕的了。当它开始被赋予可憎的属性时，情况就更糟了。从长久以来蒙蔽他双眼的、飘忽不定、虚无缥缈的迷雾中，突然出现了一个恶魔的身影。

‘I thought it was madness,’ he said, as he replaced the obnoxious paper in the safe, ‘and now I begin to fear it is disgrace.’
“我认为这是疯狂的，”他一边说，一边把那张令人讨厌的文件放回保险箱，“现在我开始担心这是一种耻辱。”

With that he blew out his candle, put on a great-coat, and set forth in the direction of Cavendish Square, that citadel of medicine, where his friend, the great Dr. Lanyon, had his house and received his crowding patients. ‘If any one knows, it will be Lanyon,’ he had thought.
说完，他吹灭了蜡烛，穿上一件大衣，向卡文迪什广场的方向出发，那是医学的堡垒，他的朋友、伟大的兰宁医生在那里拥有自己的房子，并接待了拥挤的病人。 “如果有人知道的话，那就是兰宁了。”他想。

The solemn butler knew and welcomed him;
庄严的管家认识并欢迎他。

he was subjected to no stage of delay, but ushered direct from the door to the dining-room where Dr. Lanyon sat alone over his wine. This was a hearty, healthy, dapper, red-faced gentleman, with a shock of hair prematurely white, and a boisterous and decided manner. At sight of Mr. Utterson, he sprang up from his chair and welcomed him with both hands. The geniality, as was the way of the man, was somewhat theatrical to the eye; but it reposed on genuine feeling. For these two were old friends, old mates both at school and college, both thorough respecters of themselves and of each other, and, what does not always follow, men who thoroughly enjoyed each other’s company.
他没有受到任何耽搁，而是直接从门口被引到餐厅，兰宁医生独自坐在餐厅里喝酒。这是一位热情、健康、衣冠楚楚的红脸绅士，一头过早花白的头发，举止喧闹而坚决。一看到厄特森先生，他就从椅子上跳起来，用双手欢迎他。他的和蔼可亲，就像他的举止一样，看上去有些戏剧化。但这取决于真实的感觉。因为这两个人是老朋友，是学校和大学里的老伙伴，两人都彻底尊重自己和彼此，而且，并不总是如此，他们非常享受彼此的陪伴。

After a little rambling talk, the lawyer led up to the subject which so disagreeably pre-occupied his mind.
一番漫无边际的谈话后，律师开始讨论他心神不宁的话题。

‘I suppose, Lanyon,’ said he ‘you and I must be the two oldest friends that Henry Jekyll has?’
“我想，兰宁，”他说，“你和我一定是亨利·杰基尔最老的两个朋友了？”

‘I wish the friends were younger,’ chuckled Dr. Lanyon. ‘But I suppose we are. And what of that? I see little of him now.’
“我希望朋友们更年轻一些，”兰宁博士笑着说。 “但我想我们是的。那又怎样呢？我现在很少见到他了。

Indeed?’ said Utterson. ‘I thought you had a bond of common interest.’
真的吗？”厄特森说。 “我以为你们有共同利益的纽带。”

‘We had,’ was the reply. ‘But it is more than ten years since Henry Jekyll became too fanciful for me. He began to go wrong, wrong in mind; and though of course I continue to take an interest in him for old sake’s sake, as they say,
“我们有，”他回答道。 “但是自从亨利·杰基尔对我来说变得过于幻想以来，已经过去十多年了。他开始出错了，思想也出错了；当然，正如人们所说，看在老的份上，我仍然对他感兴趣，

I see and I have seen devilish little of the man. Such unscientific balderdash,’ added the doctor, flushing suddenly purple, ‘would have estranged Damon and Pythias.’
我看到了，而且我也看到了这个人的邪恶一面。这种不科学的胡言乱语，”医生补充道，脸突然涨得发紫，“会让达蒙和皮西亚斯疏远的。”

This little spirit of temper was somewhat of a relief to Mr. Utterson. ‘They have only differed on some point of science,’ he thought; and being a man of no scientific passions (except in the matter of conveyancing), he even added: ‘It is nothing worse than that!’ He gave his friend a few seconds to recover his composure, and then approached the question he had come to put. ‘Did you ever come across a protege of his — one Hyde?’ he asked.
这种小小的脾气让厄特森先生松了口气。 “他们只是在科学的某些方面存在分歧，”他想。作为一个对科学没有热情的人（除了在产权转让问题上），他甚至补充道：“没有比这更糟糕的了！”他给了他的朋友几秒钟的时间来恢复镇静，然后开始回答他提出的问题放在。 “你有没有遇到过他的门生——海德？”他问道。

‘Hyde?’ repeated Lanyon. ‘No. Never heard of him. Since my time.’
“海德？”兰宁重复道。 '不。从来没有听说过他。从我的时代开始。

That was the amount of information that the lawyer carried back with him to the great, dark bed on which he tossed to and fro, until the small hours of the morning began to grow large. It was a night of little ease to his toiling mind, toiling in mere darkness and besieged by questions.
这就是律师带回那张又大又黑的床上的信息量，他在床上翻来覆去，直到凌晨时分开始变得越来越大。对于他辛劳的头脑来说，这是一个不太轻松的夜晚，他在黑暗中劳作，被问题包围。

Six o ‘clock struck on the bells of the church that was so conveniently near to Mr. Utterson’s dwelling, and still he was digging at the problem. Hitherto it had touched him on the intellectual side alone; but now his imagination also was engaged, or rather enslaved; and as he lay and tossed in the gross darkness of the night and the curtained room, Mr. Enfield’s tale went by
六点钟敲响了教堂的钟声，这座教堂离厄特森先生的住所很近，但他仍在挖掘这个问题。迄今为止，它仅在智力方面触动了他。但现在他的想象力也被利用了，或者更确切地说被奴役了。当他躺在漆黑的夜色和拉着窗帘的房间里翻来覆去时，恩菲尔德先生的故事就这样过去了。

before his mind in a scroll of lighted pictures. He would be aware of the great field of lamps of a nocturnal city; then of the figure of a man walking swiftly; then of a child running from the doctor’s; and then these met, and that human Juggernaut trod the child down and passed on regardless of her screams. Or else he would see a room in a rich house, where his friend lay asleep, dreaming and smiling at his dreams; and then the door of that room would be opened, the curtains of the bed plucked apart, the sleeper recalled, and lo! there would stand by his side a figure to whom power was given, and even at that dead hour, he must rise and do its bidding. The figure in these two phases haunted the lawyer all night; and if at any time he dozed over, it was but to see it glide more stealthily through sleeping houses, or move the more swiftly and still the more swiftly, even to dizziness, through wider labyrinths of lamplighted city, and at every street-corner crush a child and leave her screaming. And still the figure had no face by which he might know it; even in his dreams, it had no face, or one that baffled him and melted before his eyes; and thus it was that there sprang up and grew apace in the lawyer’s mind a singularly strong, almost an inordinate, curiosity to behold the features of the real Mr. Hyde. If he could but once set eyes on him, he thought the mystery would lighten and perhaps roll altogether away, as was the habit of mysterious
在他的脑海中，有一卷发光的图片。他会意识到夜间城市的灯火辉煌。然后是一个快速行走的男人的身影；然后是一个孩子从医生那里逃跑；然后他们相遇了，那个人类主宰将孩子踩在了地上，不顾她的尖叫声，继续往前走。否则，他会看到一栋富丽堂皇的房子里的一个房间，他的朋友睡在那里，做着梦，并对他的梦微笑；然后那个房间的门会被打开，床上的窗帘会被拉开，睡着的人回忆道，瞧！他身边会有一个被赋予权力的人物站在他身边，即使在那个死寂的时刻，他也必须站起来执行命令。这两个阶段的身影整夜困扰着律师；如果他在任何时候打瞌睡，也只是看到它更偷偷地滑过沉睡的房屋，或者移动得越来越快，甚至越来越快，甚至晕眩，穿过灯火通明的城市的更广阔的迷宫，在每个街角压碎一个孩子，让她尖叫。但这个人影仍然看不到他可以认出的面孔。即使在他的梦中，它也没有脸，也没有一张令他困惑并在他眼前融化的脸。因此，律师心中产生了一种异常强烈、几乎是过分的好奇心，想要看看真正的海德先生的面容。如果他能看到他一次，他认为神秘感就会减轻，甚至可能完全消失，就像神秘的习惯一样。

things when well examined. He might see a reason for his friend’s strange preference or bondage (call it which you please) and even for the startling clause of the will. At least it would be a face worth seeing: the face of a man who was without bowels of mercy: a face which had but to show itself to raise up, in the mind of the unimpressionable Enfield, a spirit of enduring hatred.
仔细检查的事情。他可能会发现他的朋友奇怪的偏好或束缚（随你怎么称呼它），甚至是遗嘱中令人震惊的条款的原因。至少这是一张值得一看的脸：一张没有怜悯之心的人的脸：这张脸只要表现出来，就会在不受影响的恩菲尔德心中升起一种持久的仇恨精神。

From that time forward, Mr. Utterson began to haunt the door in the by-street of shops. In the morning before office hours, at noon when business was plenty, and time scarce, at night under the face of the fogged city moon, by all lights and at all hours of solitude or concourse, the lawyer was to be found on his chosen post.
从那时起，厄特森先生就开始在街边商店的门口出没。在上班时间之前的早晨，在生意繁忙而时间紧缺的中午，在雾蒙蒙的城市月光下的夜晚，在所有灯光下，在孤独或大厅的所有时间里，律师都可以在他选择的地方找到。邮政。

‘If he be Mr. Hyde,’ he had thought, ‘I shall be Mr. Seek.’
“如果他是海德先生，”他想，“我就会成为西克先生。”

And at last his patience was rewarded. It was a fine dry night; frost in the air; the streets as clean as a ballroom floor; the lamps, unshaken, by any wind, drawing a regular pattern of light and shadow. By ten o’clock, when the shops were closed, the by-street was very solitary and, in spite of the low growl of London from all round, very silent. Small sounds carried far; domestic sounds out of the houses were clearly audible on either side of the roadway; and the rumour of the approach of any passenger preceded him by a long time. Mr. Utterson had been some minutes at his post, when he was
最后他的耐心得到了回报。这是一个晴朗干燥的夜晚。空气中结霜；街道像舞厅地板一样干净；灯不受任何风的影响，描绘出规则的光影图案。到了十点钟，商店关门了，小街就变得非常冷清，尽管四面八方都传来伦敦低沉的咆哮声，但街道上却十分寂静。微小的声音传得很远；道路两侧都能清楚地听到房屋外的家庭声响；早在他之前就有关于任何乘客接近的谣言。厄特森先生在他的岗位上待了几分钟，当时他正在

aware of an odd, light footstep drawing near. In the course of his nightly patrols, he had long grown accustomed to the quaint effect with which the footfalls of a single person, while he is still a great way off, suddenly spring out distinct from the vast hum and clatter of the city. Yet his attention had never before been so sharply and decisively arrested; and it was with a strong, superstitious prevision of success that he withdrew into the entry of the court.
意识到一个奇怪的、轻微的脚步声正在靠近。在夜间巡逻的过程中，他早已习惯了这样一种奇特的效果：一个人的脚步声，虽然距离他还很远，但突然从城市的喧嚣和喧嚣中脱颖而出。然而，他的注意力以前从未如此强烈和果断地被吸引过。他带着一种强烈的、迷信的成功预感，退出了宫廷。

The steps drew swiftly nearer, and swelled out suddenly louder as they turned the end of the street. The lawyer, looking forth from the entry, could soon see what manner of man he had to deal with. He was small and very plainly dressed, and the look of him, even at that distance, went somehow strongly against the watcher’s inclination. But he made straight for the door, crossing the roadway to save time; and as he came, he drew a key from his pocket like one approaching home.
脚步声很快就近了，当他们拐过街道的尽头时，声音突然变得更大。律师从入口向外望去，很快就看出他要面对的是一个什么样的人。他身材矮小，衣着朴素，即使在那么远的距离，他的样子也与观察者的倾向强烈相反。但他直接向门口走去，穿过马路以节省时间。当他到达时，他像回家一样从口袋里掏出一把钥匙。

Mr. Utterson stepped out and touched him on the shoulder as he passed.’ Mr. Hyde, I think?’
厄特森先生走了出来，在他经过时拍了拍他的肩膀。“我想是海德先生吧？”

Mr. Hyde shrank back with a hissing intake of the breath. But his fear was only momentary; and though he did not look the lawyer in the face, he answered coolly enough: ‘That is my name. What do you want?’
海德先生吸了一口气，向后退了一步。但他的恐惧只是暂时的；尽管他没有直视律师的脸，但他还是冷静地回答道：“那是我的名字。”你想要什么？'

‘I see you are going in,’ returned the lawyer. ‘I am an old friend of Dr. Jekyll’s — Mr. Utter-
“我看到你要进去了，”律师回答道。 “我是杰基尔博士的老朋友——厄特先生——

son of Gaunt Street — you must have heard my name; and meeting you so conveniently, I thought you might admit me.’
冈特街之子——你一定听说过我的名字；这么方便地见到你，我想你可能会接纳我。”

‘You will not find Dr. Jekyll; he is from home,’ replied Mr. Hyde, blowing in the key. And then suddenly, but still without looking up, ‘How did you know me?’ he asked.
‘你不会找到杰基尔博士； “他是从家里来的。”海德先生吹着钥匙回答道。然后他突然问道：“你是怎么认识我的？”但他仍然没有抬头。

‘On your side,’ said Mr. Utterson, ‘will you do me a favour?’
“你这边，”厄特森先生说，“你能帮我一个忙吗？”

‘With pleasure,’ replied the other. ‘What shall it be?’
“很高兴，”另一个回答道。 “会是什么？”

‘Will you let me see your face?’ asked the lawyer.
“你能让我看看你的脸吗？”律师问道。

Mr. Hyde appeared to hesitate, and then, as if upon some sudden reflection, fronted about with an air of defiance; and the pair stared at each other pretty fixedly for a few seconds. ‘Now I shall know you again,’ said Mr. Utterson.’ It may be useful.’
海德先生似乎犹豫了一下，然后，仿佛突然想到什么，脸上露出一种蔑视的神情。两人目不转睛地对视了几秒钟。 “现在我又认识你了，”厄特森先生说，“这可能会有用。”

‘Yes,’ returned Mr. Hyde, ‘it is as well we have, met; and a propos, you should have my address.’ And he gave a number of a street in Soho.
“是的，”海德先生回答道，“我们相遇就好了；”和一个提案，你应该有我的地址。”他给出了苏荷区一条街道的电话号码。

‘Good God!’ thought Mr. Utterson,’ can he, too, have been thinking of the will?’ But he kept his feelings to himself and only grunted in acknowledgment of the address.
“天哪！”厄特森先生心想，“难道他也一直在考虑遗嘱吗？”但他没有透露自己的感受，只是咕哝了一声，承认了这个地址。

‘And now,’ said the other, ‘how did you know me?’
“那么，”另一个人说，“你是怎么认识我的？”

‘By description,’ was the reply.
回答是“根据描述”。

‘Whose description?’
“谁的描述？”

‘We have common friends, said Mr. Utterson.
“我们有共同的朋友，”厄特森先生说。

‘Common friends?’ echoed Mr. Hyde, a little hoarsely.’ Who are they?’
“共同的朋友？”海德先生重复道，声音有点沙哑。“他们是谁？”

‘Jekyll, for instance,’ said the lawyer.
“例如杰基尔，”律师说。

‘He never told you,’ cried Mr. Hyde, with a flush of anger.’ I did not think you would have lied.’
“他从来没有告诉过你，”海德先生怒气冲冲地喊道，“我不认为你会撒谎。”

‘Come,’ said Mr. Utterson, ‘that is not fitting language.’
“得了吧，”厄特森先生说，“这不是合适的语言。”

The other snarled aloud into a savage laugh; and the next moment, with extraordinary quickness, he had unlocked the door and disappeared into the house.
另一个人大声咆哮，发出野蛮的笑声。下一刻，他以惊人的速度打开了门，消失在屋子里。

The lawyer stood a while when Mr. Hyde had left him, the picture of disquietude. Then he began slowly to mount the street, pausing every step or two and putting his hand to his brow like a man in mental perplexity. The problem he was thus debating as he walked, was one of a class that is rarely solved. Mr. Hyde was pale and dwarfish, he gave an impression of deformity without any nameable malformation, he had a displeasing smile, he had borne himself to the lawyer with a sort of murderous mixture of timidity and boldness, and he spoke with a husky, whispering and somewhat broken voice; all these were points against him, but not all of these together could explain the hitherto unknown disgust, loathing, and fear with which Mr. Utterson regarded him. ‘There must be some-
当海德先生离开时，律师站了一会儿，一副不安的样子。然后他开始慢慢地走上街道，每走一两步就停下来，把手放在额头上，就像一个精神困惑的人。他边走边争论的问题属于很少能解决的问题之一。海德先生脸色苍白，身材矮小，给人一种畸形的印象，但没有任何明显的畸形，他的笑容令人不快，他在律师面前表现出一种胆怯和大胆的凶残混合体，说话时声音沙哑，低声说话，声音有些断断续续；所有这些都是对他不利的，但并不是所有这些加起来就能解释厄特森先生对他的前所未有的厌恶、厌恶和恐惧。 ‘一定有一些——

thing else,’ said the perplexed gentleman. ‘There is something more, if I could find a name for it. God bless me, the man seems hardly human! Something troglodytic, shall we say? or can it be the old story of Dr. Fell? or Is it the mere radiance of a foul soul that thus transpires through, and transfigures, its clay continent? The last, I think; for, O my poor old Harry Jekyll, if ever I read Satan’s signature upon a face, it Is on that of your new friend.’
还有别的事吗？”这位困惑的绅士说道。 “还有更多东西，如果我能为它找到一个名字的话。”上帝保佑我，这个人看起来不像人类！我们可以说是穴居人吗？或者这可能是菲尔博士的老故事？或者，这仅仅是一个肮脏灵魂的光辉，从而穿过并改变了它的粘土大陆？我认为最后一个；因为，哦，我可怜的老哈利·杰基尔，如果我在一张脸上看到了撒旦的签名，那一定是在你的新朋友的脸上。

Round the corner from the by-street, there was a square of ancient, handsome houses, now for the most part decayed from their high estate and let in flats and chambers to all sorts and conditions of men: map-engravers, architects, shady lawyers, and the agents of obscure enterprises. One house, however, second from the corner, was still occupied entire; and at the door of this, which wore a great air of wealth and comfort, though it was now plunged in darkness except for the fan-light, Mr. Utterson stopped and knocked. A well-dressed, elderly servant opened the door.
在小街的拐角处，有一个方形的古老而漂亮的房子，现在大部分都从他们的高楼上腐烂了，并为各种各样和条件各异的人提供了公寓和房间：地图雕刻师，建筑师，阴暗的人。律师，以及名不见经传的企业的代理人。然而，从拐角数第二个房子，仍然被全部占用。到了这间大门前，厄特森先生停下来敲了敲门，虽然现在除了风扇灯外，里面一片漆黑，但它却显得富丽堂皇、舒适宜人。一个穿着考究的老仆人打开了门。

Is Dr. Jekyll at home, Poole?’ asked the lawyer.
“杰基尔博士在家吗，普尔？”律师问道。

‘I will see, Mr. Utterson,’ said Poole, admitting the visitor, as he spoke, into a large, low-roofed, comfortable hall, paved with flags, warmed (after the fashion of a country house) by a bright, open fire, and furnished with costly cabinets of oak. ‘Will you wait here by the
“我会看到的，厄特森先生，”普尔一边说，一边让这位来访者进入一个宽敞、低顶、舒适的大厅，大厅里铺满了旗帜，（按照乡间别墅的风格）用明亮的、配有明火，并配有昂贵的橡木橱柜。 ‘你可以在这儿等一下吗？

fire, sir? or shall I give you a light in the dining room?’
先生，火吗？或者我给你在餐厅里点灯好吗？

‘Here, thank you,’ said the lawyer, and he drew near and leaned on the tall fender. This hall, in which he was now left alone, was a pet fancy of his friend the doctor’s; and Utterson himself was wont to speak of it as the pleasantest room in London. But to-night there was a shudder in his blood; the face of Hyde sat heavy on his memory; he felt (what was rare with him) a nausea and distaste of life; and in the gloom of his spirits, he seemed to read a menace in the flickering of the firelight on the polished cabinets and the uneasy starting of the shadow on the roof. He was ashamed of his relief, when Poole presently returned to announce that Dr. Jekyll was gone out.
“谢谢你，”律师说道，然后他走近并靠在高高的挡泥板上。现在只剩下他一个人呆在这个大厅里，这是他的医生朋友的最爱。厄特森本人也习惯说它是伦敦最令人愉快的房间。但今晚他的血液里颤抖起来；海德的脸庞深深地印在他的记忆里。他感到（这对他来说是罕见的）一种恶心和对生活的厌恶。在他心情低落的时候，他似乎从擦亮的橱柜上闪烁的火光和屋顶上不安的阴影中读出了一种威胁。当普尔不久回来宣布杰基尔博士外出时，他为自己的轻松感到羞愧。

‘I saw Mr. Hyde go in by the old dissecting-room door, Poole,’ he said. ‘Is that right, when Dr. Jekyll is from home?’
“普尔，我看见海德先生从旧解剖室的门进来了，”他说。 “是吗，杰基尔博士不在家的时候？”

‘Quite right, Mr. Utterson, sir,’ replied the servant. ‘Mr. Hyde has a key.’
“完全正确，厄特森先生，先生，”仆人回答道。 '先生。海德有一把钥匙。

‘Your master seems to repose a great deal of trust in that young man, Poole,’ resumed the other musingly.
“你的主人似乎对普尔这个年轻人非常信任。”另一个若有所思地继续说道。

‘Yes, sir, he do indeed,’ said Poole. ‘We have all orders to obey him.’
“是的，先生，他确实这么做了，”普尔说。 “我们必须服从他的所有命令。”

‘I do not think I ever met Mr. Hyde?’ asked Utterson.
“我想我从来没有见过海德先生？”厄特森问。

O, dear no, sir. He never dines here,’ replied the butler. ‘Indeed we see very little of
哦，亲爱的，不，先生。他从不在这里用餐。”管家回答道。 “事实上，我们很少看到

him on this side of the house; he mostly comes and goes by the laboratory.’
他在房子的这一边；他大部分时间都会经过实验室。”

‘Well, good-night, Poole.’
“好吧，晚安，普尔。”

‘Good-night, Mr. Utterson.’ And the lawyer set out homeward with a very heavy heart.’ Poor Harry Jekyll,’ he thought, ‘my mind misgives me he is in deep waters! He was wild when he was young; a long while ago to be sure; but in the law of God, there is no statute of limitations. Ay, it must be that; the ghost of some old sin, the cancer of some concealed disgrace: punishment coming, PEDE CLAUDO, years after memory has forgotten and self-love condoned the fault.’ And the lawyer, scared by the thought, brooded a while on his own past, groping in all the corners of memory, lest by chance some Jack-in-the-Box of an old iniquity should leap to light there. His past was fairly blameless; few men could read the rolls of their life with less apprehension; yet he was humbled to the dust by the many ill things he had done, and raised up again into a sober and fearful gratitude by the many that he had come so near to doing, yet avoided. And then by a return on his former subject, he conceived a spark of hope. ‘This Master Hyde, if he were studied,’ thought he, ‘must have secrets of his own; black secrets, by the look of him; secrets compared to which poor Jekyll’s worst would be like sunshine. Things cannot continue as they are. It turns me cold to think of this creature stealing like a
“晚安，厄特森先生。”律师心情沉重地回家了。“可怜的哈利·杰基尔，”他想，“我的心怀疑他是在深水里！”年轻时他狂野；可以肯定的是，很久以前；但在上帝的法律中，没有时效规定。哎，一定是这样；一些旧罪的幽灵，一些隐藏的耻辱的癌症：惩罚即将到来，佩德·克劳多，多年后记忆已经忘记，自爱宽恕了错误。”律师被这个想法吓坏了，沉思了一会儿自己的过去，在记忆的各个角落里摸索，以免某个旧罪孽的杰克盒子偶然跳到那里。他的过去是相当无可指责的。很少有人能够不那么忧心忡忡地阅读自己的人生经历。然而，他因自己所做的许多恶事而被降为尘土，而许多他曾差点就做了却又回避的人又使他再次清醒而敬畏地感激他。然后，通过回到之前的主题，他萌生了一线希望的火花。他想，“如果对这位海德大师进行研究的话，他一定有自己的秘密；”从他的表情来看，这是黑色的秘密；与这些秘密相比，可怜的杰基尔最糟糕的事情就像阳光一样。事情不能再这样继续下去了。想到这个生物像一个偷东西的人一样，我感到很冷

thief to Harry’s bedside; poor Harry, what a wakening! And the danger of it; for if this Hyde suspects the existence of the will, he may grow impatient to inherit. Ay, I must put my shoulder to the wheel if Jekyll will but let me,’ he added, ‘if Jekyll will only let me.’ For once more he saw before his mind’s eye, as clear as a transparency, the strange clauses of the will.
小偷来到哈利的床边；可怜的哈利，真是一次觉醒！以及它的危险；因为如果这个海德怀疑遗嘱的存在，他可能会变得不耐烦继承。是的，如果杰基尔愿意的话，我必须把我的肩膀放在方向盘上，”他补充道，“如果杰基尔愿意让我的话。”因为他再一次在他的脑海中看到了像透明一样清晰的奇怪条款。意志。

DR. JEKYLL WAS QUITE AT EASE
博士。杰基尔很轻松

A FORTNIGHT later, by excellent good fortune, the doctor gave one of his pleasant dinners to some five or six old cronies, all intelligent, reputable men and all judges of good wine; and Mr. Utterson so contrived that he remained behind after the others had departed. This was no new arrangement, but a thing that had befallen many scores of times. Where Utterson was liked, he was liked well. Hosts loved to detain the dry lawyer, when the light-hearted and the loose-tongued had already their foot on the threshold; they liked to sit a while in his unobtrusive company, practising for solitude, sobering their minds in the man’s rich silence after the expense and strain of gaiety. To this rule, Dr. Jekyll was no exception; and as he now sat on the opposite side of the fire — a large, well-made, smooth-faced man of fifty, with something of a slyish cast perhaps, but every mark of capacity and kindness — you could see by his looks that he cherished for Mr. Utterson a sincere and warm affection.
两周后，幸运的是，医生为大约五六个老朋友提供了一顿愉快的晚餐，他们都是聪明、有信誉的人，也是美酒的评判者；厄特森先生故意在其他人离开后留下来。这并不是什么新的安排，而是已经发生过很多次的事情了。厄特森受到人们的喜爱，他也受到人们的喜爱。当无忧无虑、口无遮拦的人已经踏上门槛时，东道主们喜欢扣留这位干巴巴的律师。他们喜欢在他低调的陪伴下坐上一会儿，练习独处，在度过了欢乐的花费和紧张之后，在这个男人丰富的沉默中清醒头脑。杰基尔博士也不例外。现在他坐在火的对面——一个身材高大、身材匀称、面容光滑的五十岁男人，也许带着一丝狡猾，但处处体现着能力和善良——你可以从他的外表看出，他对厄特森先生怀有真挚而温暖的感情。

‘I have been wanting to speak to you, Jekyll,’ began the latter. ‘You know that will of yours?’
“我一直想和你说话，杰基尔，”后者开始说道。 “你知道你的意愿吗？”

A close observer might have gathered that the topic was distasteful; but the doctor carried it off gaily. ‘My poor Utterson,’ said he, ‘you are unfortunate in such a client. I never saw a man so distressed as you were by my will; unless it were that hide-bound pedant, Lanyon, at what he called my scientific heresies. Oh, I know he’s a good fellow — you needn’t frown — an excellent fellow, and I always mean to see more of him; but a hide-bound pedant for all that; an ignorant, blatant pedant. I was never more disappointed in any man than Lanyon.’
细心的观察者可能会发现这个话题令人反感。但医生高兴地把它拿走了。 “我可怜的厄特森，”他说，“遇到这样的客户真是不幸。”我从未见过一个人像你一样因我的意志而如此痛苦；除非是那个顽皮的学究兰尼恩，他称我为科学异端。哦，我知道他是个好人——你不必皱眉——一个优秀的人，我总是想多见见他；但尽管如此，他还是一个顽固的学究；无知、明目张胆的学究。我对任何人都没有比兰宁更失望的了。

‘You know I never approved of it,’ pursued Utterson, ruthlessly disregarding the fresh topic.
“你知道我从来不赞成它，”厄特森继续说道，无情地忽视了这个新鲜的话题。

‘My will? Yes, certainly, I know that,’ said the doctor, a trifle sharply. ‘You have told me so.’
'我的意志？是的，当然，我知道，”医生说，语气有点尖锐。 “你已经告诉我了。”

‘Well, I tell you so again,’ continued the lawyer. ‘I have been learning something of young Hyde.’
“好吧，我再说一遍，”律师继续说道。 “我从年轻的海德身上学到了一些东西。”

The large handsome face of Dr. Jekyll grew pale to the very lips, and there came a blackness about his eyes. ‘I do not care to hear more,’ said he. ‘This is a matter I thought we had agreed to drop.’
杰基尔博士英俊的大脸从嘴唇开始变得苍白，眼睛周围一片漆黑。 “我不想听更多，”他说。 “我以为我们已经同意放弃这件事了。”

‘What I heard was abominable,’ said Utterson.
“我所听到的令人厌恶，”厄特森说。

‘It can make no change. You do not under-
‘它无法改变。你不低于-

stand my position,’ returned the doctor, with a certain incoherency of manner. ‘I am painfully situated, Utterson; my position is a very strange — a very strange one. It is one of those affairs that cannot be mended by talking.’
坚持我的立场，”医生回答道，语气有些语无伦次。 “我的处境很痛苦，厄特森；我的立场非常奇怪——非常奇怪。这是无法通过谈话来解决的事情之一。

‘Jekyll,’ said Utterson, ‘you know me: I am a man to be trusted. Make a clean breast of this in confidence; and I make no doubt I can get you out of it.’
“杰基尔，”厄特森说，“你了解我：我是一个值得信任的人。私下坦白此事；我毫不怀疑我能让你摆脱困境。

‘My good Utterson,’ said the doctor, ‘this is very good of you, this is downright good of you, and I cannot find words to thank you in. I believe you fully; I would trust you before any man alive, ay, before myself, if I could make the choice; but indeed it isn’t what you fancy; it is not so bad as that; and just to put your good heart at rest, I will tell you one thing: the moment I choose, I can be rid of Mr. Hyde. I give you my hand upon that; and I thank you again and again; and I will just add one little word, Utterson, that I’m sure you’ll take in good part: this is a private matter, and I beg of you to let it sleep.’
“我的好厄特森，”医生说，“你真是太好了，你真是太好了，我找不到语言来感谢你。我完全相信你；我相信你。”如果我可以做出选择的话，我会在任何活着的人之前相信你，是的，在我自己之前；但事实上，这并不是你所想象的那样；事情并没有那么糟糕；为了让你的好心放心，我会告诉你一件事：一旦我选择，我就可以摆脱海德先生。我把我的手交给你；我一次又一次地感谢你；我只想补充一点，厄特森，我相信你会充分理解：这是一件私事，我恳求你让它睡觉。

Utterson reflected a little, looking in the fire.
厄特森看着火，稍微思考了一下。

‘I have no doubt you are perfectly right,’ he said at last, getting to his feet.
“我毫不怀疑你是完全正确的，”他最后站了起来说道。

‘Well, but since we have touched upon this business, and for the last time I hope,’ continued the doctor, ‘there is one point I should like you to understand. I have really a very great interest in poor Hyde. I know you have seen
“好吧，但是既然我们已经谈到了这件事，而且我希望这是最后一次，”医生继续说道，“有一点我希望你能理解。我对可怜的海德确实非常感兴趣。我知道你见过

him; he told me so; and I fear he was rude. But, I do sincerely take a great, a very great interest in that young man; and if I am taken away, Utterson, I wish you to promise me that you will bear with him and get his rights for him. I think you would, if you knew all; and it would be a weight off my mind if you would promise.’
他;他是这么告​​诉我的；我担心他很粗鲁。但是，我确实对那个年轻人非常非常感兴趣。如果我被带走，厄特森，我希望你向我保证，你会容忍他，并为他争取到他的权利。我想你会的，如果你知道一切的话；如果你能答应的话，我的心就会减轻不少。”

‘I can’t pretend that I shall ever like him,’ said the lawyer.
“我不能假装我会喜欢他，”律师说。

‘I don’t ask that,’ pleaded Jekyll, laying his hand upon the other’s arm; ‘I only ask for justice; I only ask you to help him for my sake, when I am no longer here.’
“我不问这个，”杰基尔恳求道，同时把手放在对方的手臂上。 ‘我只求正义；我只要求你在我不在的时候帮助他。”

Utterson heaved an irrepressible sigh. ‘Well,’ said he, ‘I promise.’
厄特森忍不住叹了口气。 “好吧，”他说，“我保证。”

THE CAREW MURDER CASE
卡鲁谋杀案

NEARLY a year later, in the month of October, 18 — , London was startled by a crime of singular ferocity and rendered all the more notable by the high position of the victim. The details were few and startling. A maid servant living alone in a house not far from the river, had gone up-stairs to bed about eleven. Although a fog rolled over the city in the small hours, the early part of the night was cloudless, and the lane, which the maid’s window overlooked, was brilliantly lit by the full moon. It seems she was romantically given, for she sat down upon her box, which stood immediately under the window, and fell into a dream of musing. Never (she used to say, with streaming tears, when she narrated that experience), never had she felt more at peace with all men or thought more kindly of the world. And as she so sat she became aware of an aged and beautiful gentleman with white hair, drawing near along the lane; and advancing to meet him, another and very small gentleman, to whom at first she
近一年后，即18年10月，伦敦因一起异常残暴的犯罪行为而震惊，而受害人的崇高地位则更加引人注目。细节很少而且令人震惊。离河边不远的一所房子里，一个独居的女佣，十一点左右就上楼睡觉了。虽然凌晨时分，城上笼罩着大雾，但夜幕初露，万里无云，侍女窗外的小巷被月光照亮。她似乎得到了浪漫的赐予，因为她坐在窗下的盒子上，陷入了沉思的梦境。从来没有（当她讲述那段经历时，她常常流着泪说），她从来没有对所有男人感到如此平静，或者对世界如此友善。当她坐在那里时，她意识到一位白发的年老而美丽的绅士正沿着小巷走近。并走向他，另一个非常小的绅士，一开始她对他

paid less attention. When they had come within speech (which was just under the maid’s eyes) the older man bowed and accosted the other with a very pretty manner of politeness. It did not seem as if the subject of his address were of great importance; indeed, from his pointing, it sometimes appeared as if he were only inquiring his way; but the moon shone on his face as he spoke, and the girl was pleased to watch it, it seemed to breathe such an innocent and old-world kindness of disposition, yet with something high too, as of a well-founded self-content. Presently her eye wandered to the other, and she was surprised to recognise in him a certain Mr. Hyde, who had once visited her master and for whom she had conceived a dislike. He had in his hand a heavy cane, with which he was trifling; but he answered never a word, and seemed to listen with an ill-contained impatience. And then all of a sudden he broke out in a great flame of anger, stamping with his foot, brandishing the cane, and carrying on (as the maid described it) like a madman. The old gentleman took a step back, with the air of one very much surprised and a trifle hurt; and at that Mr. Hyde broke out of all bounds and clubbed him to the earth. And next moment, with ape-like fury, he was trampling his victim under foot and hailing down a storm of blows, under which the bones were audibly shattered and the body jumped upon the roadway. At the horror of these sights and sounds, the maid fainted.
较少关注。当他们进入谈话范围时（就在女仆的眼睛下方），年长的男人鞠躬并以一种非常礼貌的方式与对方搭话。他演讲的主题似乎并不重要。事实上，从他的指点来看，有时他似乎只是在探路。但当他说话时，月亮照在他的脸上，女孩很高兴地看着它，它似乎散发着一种天真的和旧世界的善良性情，但也有一些高尚的东西，就像一种有根据的自我满足。不久，她的目光转向了对方，她惊讶地发现他就是海德先生，他曾经拜访过她的主人，而她却对他怀有厌恶之情。他手里拿着一根沉重的手杖，但他对它却毫不在意。但他一言不发，似乎带着一种难以抑制的不耐烦听着。突然，他怒火中烧，跺脚，挥舞手杖，像个疯子一样（正如女仆所描述的那样）。老先生后退了一步，一副很惊讶又有点受伤的神情。就在这时，海德先生挣脱束缚，把他打倒在地。下一刻，他带着猿猴般的愤怒，将受害者踩在脚下，并发出一阵猛烈的打击，骨头碎裂的声音传来，尸体跳到了路面上。女仆被这些景象和声音吓得晕了过去。

It was two o’clock when she came to herself and called for the police. The murderer was gone long ago; but there lay his victim in the middle of the lane, incredibly mangled. The stick with which the deed had been done, although it was of some rare and very tough and heavy wood, had broken in the middle under the stress of this insensate cruelty; and one splintered half had rolled in the neighbouring gutter — the other, without doubt, had been carried away by the murderer. A purse and a gold watch were found upon the victim: but no cards or papers, except a sealed and stamped envelope, which he had been probably carrying to the post, and which bore the name and address of Mr. Utterson.
当她清醒过来并报警时，已经是两点了。凶手早已消失；但他的受害者躺在巷子中央，伤痕累累。完成这件事所用的木棍，虽然是用一些稀有、非常坚韧、沉重的木头制成的，但在这种无情的残忍的压力下，从中间折断了；其中一块碎片滚进了附近的排水沟里——另一块毫无疑问已经被凶手带走了。在受害人身上发现了一个钱包和一块金表，但没有任何卡片或文件，除了一个密封的、贴有邮票的信封，他可能是带着这个信封去邮局的，上面写着厄特森先生的姓名和地址。

This was brought to the lawyer the next morning, before he was out of bed; and he had no sooner seen it, and been told the circumstances, than he shot out a solemn lip. ‘I shall say nothing till I have seen the body,’ said he; ‘this may be very serious. Have the kindness to wait while I dress.’ And with the same grave countenance he hurried through his breakfast and drove to the police station, whither the body had been carried. As soon as he came into the cell, he nodded.
第二天早上，在律师起床之前，这份文件被交给了律师。他一看到它，并被告知情况，就严肃地说了一声。 “在我看到尸体之前我不会说什么，”他说。 ‘这可能非常严重。请您稍等一下，我穿衣服。”然后，他又带着同样严肃的表情，匆匆吃完早餐，开车前往警察局，尸体已被运往那里。一进牢房，他就点了点头。

‘Yes,’ said he, ‘I recognise him. I am sorry to say that this is Sir Danvers Carew.’
“是的，”他说，“我认得他。”我很遗憾地告诉你，这是丹弗斯·卡鲁爵士。

‘Good God, sir,’ exclaimed the officer, ‘is it possible?’ And the next moment his eye
“天啊，先生，”军官惊呼道，“这可能吗？” 下一刻，他的眼睛

lighted up with professional ambition. ‘This will make a deal of noise,’ he said. ‘And perhaps you can help us to the man.’ And he briefly narrated what the maid had seen, and showed the broken stick.
充满了职业抱负。 “这会引起很大的噪音，”他说。 “也许你可以帮助我们找到那个人。”他简单地叙述了女仆所看到的情况，并展示了那根折断的棍子。

Mr. Utterson had already quailed at the name of Hyde; but when the stick was laid before him, he could doubt no longer; broken and battered as it was, he recognised it for one that he had himself presented many years before to Henry Jekyll.
厄特森先生一听到海德的名字就已经感到畏缩了。但当棍子放在他面前时，他就不再怀疑了。尽管它已经破烂不堪，但他认出这是他多年前亲自送给亨利·杰基尔的。

‘Is this Mr. Hyde a person of small stature?’ he inquired.
“这位海德先生身材矮小吗？”他问道。

‘Particularly small and particularly wicked-looking, is what the maid calls him,’ said the officer.
“女仆是这么称呼他的，他个子特别小，而且长得特别凶。”军官说道。

Mr. Utterson reflected; and then, raising his head, ‘If you will come with me in my cab,’ he said, ‘I think I can take you to his house.’
厄特森先生反思道：然后，他抬起头，说道：“如果你愿意和我一起坐出租车，我想我可以带你去他家。”

It was by this time about nine in the morning, and the first fog of the season. A great chocolate-coloured pall lowered over heaven, but the wind was continually charging and routing these embattled vapours; so that as the cab crawled from street to street, Mr. Utterson beheld a marvellous number of degrees and hues of twilight; for here it would be dark like the back-end of evening; and there would be a glow of a rich, lurid brown, like the light of some strange conflagration; and here, for a moment, the fog would be quite broken up, and a haggard shaft
这时大约是早上九点，也是这个季节的第一场雾。天空上空笼罩着一层巨大的巧克力色的帷幕，但风不断地吹走这些四面楚歌的蒸气。因此，当出租车从一条街爬到另一条街时，厄特森先生看到了令人惊奇的暮色度数和色调。因为这里天黑得像傍晚一样；那里会发出浓郁、刺眼的棕色光芒，就像某种奇怪的大火发出的光芒；在这里，有一瞬间，雾气会完全消散，出现一个枯萎的竖井

of daylight would glance in between the swirling wreaths. The dismal quarter of Soho seen under these changing glimpses, with its muddy ways, and slatternly passengers, and its lamps, which had never been extinguished or had been kindled afresh to combat this mournful re-invasion of darkness, seemed, in the lawyer’s eyes, like a district of some city in a nightmare. The thoughts of his mind, besides, were of the gloomiest dye; and when he glanced at the companion of his drive, he was conscious of some touch of that terror of the law and the law’s officers, which may at times assail the most honest.
日光会在旋转的花环之间扫过。在这些不断变化的目光下，苏荷区的阴暗区域，泥泞的道路，衣衫褴褛的乘客，以及从未熄灭或重新点燃以对抗黑暗的悲伤重新入侵的灯，在律师的眼中似乎如此。 ，就像噩梦中某个城市的一个区。此外，他心里的想法是最阴郁的。当他瞥了一眼他的同伴时，他意识到对法律和执法人员的某种恐惧，这有时可能会攻击最诚实的人。

As the cab drew up before the address indicated, the fog lifted a little and showed him a dingy street, a gin palace, a low French eating-house, a shop for the retail of penny numbers and twopenny salads, many ragged children huddled in the doorways, and many women of different nationalities passing out, key in hand, to have a morning glass; and the next moment the fog settled down again upon that part, as brown as umber, and cut him off from his blackguardly surroundings. This was the home of Henry Jekyll’s favourite; of a man who was heir to a quarter of a million sterling.
当出租车在地址指示前停下来时，雾气散了一点，向他展示了一条肮脏的街道，一座杜松子酒宫殿，一家低矮的法国餐馆，一家零售便士数字和两便士沙拉的商店，许多衣衫褴褛的孩子挤在里面。门口，许多不同国籍的妇女拿着钥匙出去喝一杯早晨的玻璃；下一刻，雾气又落在了那部分，呈棕褐色，将他与周围的恶毒环境隔绝了。这是亨利·杰基尔最喜欢的人的家；一个25万英镑继承人的故事。

An ivory-faced and silvery-haired old woman opened the door. She had an evil face, smoothed by hypocrisy; but her manners were excellent. Yes, she said, this was Mr. Hyde’s, but he was not at home; he had been in that night very late,
开门的是一位象牙色脸庞、银发的老妇人。她有一张邪恶的脸，因虚伪而变得光滑。但她的举止非常好。是的，她说，这是海德先生的，但他不在家。那天晚上他已经很晚了，

but had gone away again in less than an hour; there was nothing strange in that; his habits were very irregular, and he was often absent; for instance, it was nearly two months since she had seen him till yesterday.
但不到一个小时又离开了；这并没有什么奇怪的。他的生活习惯很不规律，经常缺席。比如，从昨天她见到他以来，已经快两个月了。

‘Very well, then, we wish to see his rooms,’ said the lawyer; and when the woman began to declare it was impossible, ‘I had better tell you who this person is,’ he added. ‘This is Inspector Newcomen of Scotland Yard.’
“那么，我们想看看他的房间，”律师说。当那位女士开始宣称这是不可能的时候，“我最好告诉你这个人是谁，”他补充道。 “这是苏格兰场的纽科门督察。”

A flash of odious joy appeared upon the woman’s face. ‘Ah!’ said she, ‘he is in trouble! What has he done?
女人的脸上闪过一丝令人厌恶的喜悦。 “啊！”她说，“他有麻烦了！”他做了什么？

‘Mr. Utterson and the inspector exchanged glances. ‘He don’t seem a very popular character,’ observed the latter. ‘And now, my good woman, just let me and this gentleman have a look about us.’
'先生。厄特森和督察交换了眼神。 “他似乎不是一个很受欢迎的角色，”后者评论道。 “现在，我的好女人，让我和这位先生看看我们的周围。”

In the whole extent of the house, which but for the old woman remained otherwise empty, Mr. Hyde had only used a couple of rooms; but these were furnished with luxury and good taste. A closet was filled with wine; the plate was of silver, the napery elegant; a good picture hung upon the walls, a gift (as Utterson supposed) from Henry Jekyll, who was much of a connoisseur; and the carpets were of many plies and agreeable in colour. At this moment, however, the rooms bore every mark of having been recently and hurriedly ransacked; clothes lay about the floor, with their pockets inside out;
除了老妇人以外，整个房子都空着，海德先生只使用了几个房间。但这些房间的布置都很奢华，品味也很高。壁橱里装满了酒；盘子是银的，餐巾很优雅。墙上挂着一幅精美的画，是亨利·杰基尔送给他的礼物（正如厄特森所料），他是一位鉴赏家。地毯有很多层，颜色也很漂亮。然而此刻，房间里的一切痕迹都像是刚刚被匆匆洗劫过的痕迹；衣服散落在地板上，口袋翻了过来。

lock-fast drawers stood open; and on the hearth there lay a pile of grey ashes, as though many papers had been burned. From these embers the inspector disinterred the butt-end of a green cheque-book, which had resisted the action of the fire; the other half of the stick was found behind the door. and as this clinched his suspicions, the officer declared himself delighted. A visit to the bank, where several thousand pounds were found to be lying to the murderer’s credit, completed his gratification.
锁紧的抽屉保持打开状态；壁炉上躺着一堆灰色的灰烬，好像有很多纸被烧毁了。检查员从这些余烬中挖出了一本绿色支票簿的底端，它抵抗了大火的作用；木棍的另一半在门后被发现。当这证实了他的怀疑时，军官宣称自己很高兴。一次去银行，发现凶手的信用里有几千英镑的谎言，这让他感到非常满意。

‘You may depend upon it, sir,’ he told Mr. Utterson: ‘I have him in my hand. He must have lost his head, or he never would have left the stick or, above all, burned the cheque-book. Why, money’s life to the man. We have nothing to do but wait for him at the bank, and get out the handbills.’
“你可以相信这一点，先生，”他告诉厄特森先生，“他在我手里。”他一定是失去了理智，否则他永远不会离开那根棍子，或者最重要的是，他不会烧掉支票簿。为什么，金钱是男人的生命。我们无事可做，只能在银行等他，然后拿出传单。”

This last, however, was not so easy of accomplishment; for Mr. Hyde had numbered few familiars — even the master of the servant-maid had only seen him twice; his family could nowhere be traced; he had never been photographed; and the few who could describe him differed widely, as common observers will. Only on one point, were they agreed; and that was the haunting sense of unexpressed deformity with which the fugitive impressed his beholders.
然而，最后一个目标并不容易实现。因为海德先生的熟人很少——就连女仆的主人也只见过他两次。他的家人无处可寻；他从未被拍过照片；正如普通观察者所见，能够描述他的少数人的看法差异很大。他们只在一点上达成了一致；这就是逃亡者给旁观者留下的难以言喻的畸形感。

INCIDENT OF THE LETTER
这封信的事件

IT was late in the afternoon, when Mr. Utterson found his way to Dr. Jekyll’s door, where he was at once admitted by Poole, and carried down by the kitchen offices and across a yard which had once been a garden, to the building which was indifferently known as the laboratory or the dissecting-rooms. The doctor had bought the house from the heirs of a celebrated surgeon; and his own tastes being rather chemical than anatomical, had changed the destination of the block at the bottom of the garden. It was the first time that the lawyer had been received in that part of his friend’s quarters; and he eyed the dingy, windowless structure with curiosity, and gazed round with a distasteful sense of strangeness as he crossed the theatre, once crowded with eager students and now lying gaunt and silent, the tables laden with chemical apparatus, the floor strewn with crates and littered with packing straw, and the light falling dimly through the foggy cupola. At the further end, a flight of stairs mounted to a door covered with red baize;
下午晚些时候，厄特森先生找到了杰基尔博士的门口，普尔立即让他进来，并被厨房办公室抬下楼，穿过曾经是花园的院子，来到了大楼。人们通常将其称为实验室或解剖室。医生从一位著名外科医生的继承人手中买下了这栋房子。他自己的品味更多是化学的而不是解剖学的，改变了花园底部街区的目的地。这是第一次在他朋友的宿舍里接待律师。他好奇地打量着这座昏暗、没有窗户的建筑，当他穿过剧院时，他带着一种令人厌恶的陌生感环顾四周，曾经挤满了热切的学生，现在却憔悴而沉默，桌子上摆满了化学仪器，地板上散落着板条箱地上散落着稻草，光线透过雾蒙蒙的冲天炉发出微弱的光。在另一端，一段楼梯通向一扇覆盖着红色粗呢布的门。

and through this, Mr. Utterson was at last received into the doctor’s cabinet. It was a large room, fitted round with glass presses, furnished, among other things, with a cheval-glass and a business table, and looking out upon the court by three dusty windows barred with iron. A fire burned in the grate; a lamp was set lighted on the chimney shelf, for even in the houses the fog began to lie thickly; and there, close up to the warmth, sat Dr. Jekyll, looking deadly sick. He did not rise to meet his visitor, but held out a cold hand and bade him welcome in a changed voice.
至此，厄特森先生终于被接纳进入医生内阁。这是一间大房间，周围装有玻璃压机，除其他外，还配有高级玻璃和一张商务桌，通过三扇布满灰尘、铁栅栏的窗户可以看到外面的庭院。炉栅里生着火；烟囱架上点着一盏灯，因为即使在房子里，雾气也开始浓重起来。杰基尔博士就坐在那儿，离温暖很近，看上去病得很厉害。他没有起身迎接来访者，而是伸出一只冰冷的手，用变了的声音向他表示欢迎。

‘And now,’ said Mr. Utterson, as soon as Poole had left them, ‘you have heard the news?’
“现在，”普尔一离开他们，厄特森先生就说道，“你听到这个消息了吗？”

The doctor shuddered.’ They were crying it in the square,’ he said. ‘I heard them in my dining-room.’
医生浑身发抖。“他们在广场上哭，”他说。 “我在餐厅里听到了他们的声音。”

‘One word,’ said the lawyer. ‘Carew was my client, but so are you, and I want to know what I am doing. You have not been mad enough to hide this fellow?’
“一个字，”律师说。 “卡鲁是我的客户，但你也是，我想知道我在做什么。你还没有疯到要把这个家伙藏起来吗？

‘Utterson, I swear to God, ‘ cried the doctor,’ I swear to God I will never set eyes on him again. I bind my honour to you that I am done with him in this world. It is all at an end. And indeed he does not want my help; you do not know him as I do; he is safe, he is quite safe; mark my words, he will never more be heard of.’
“厄特森，我向上帝发誓，”医生喊道，“我向上帝发誓，我再也不会看到他了。”我向你保证我与他在这个世界上的关系已经结束了。一切都结束了。事实上他并不需要我的帮助；你不像我那样了解他；他很安全，他很安全；记住我的话，他将永远不会再被人听到。”

The lawyer listened gloomily; he did not like his friend’s feverish manner. ‘You seem pretty
律师郁闷地听着。他不喜欢他朋友的狂热态度。 ‘你看起来很漂亮

sure of him,’ said he; ‘and for your sake, I hope you may be right. If it came to a trial, your name might appear.’
“对他有信心，”他说。 “为了你的缘故，我希望你是对的。如果进行审判，你的名字可能会出现。

‘I am quite sure of him,’ replied Jekyll; ‘I have grounds for certainty that I cannot share with any one. But there is one thing on which you may advise me. I have — I have received a letter; and I am at a loss whether I should show it to the police. I should like to leave it in your hands, Utterson; you would judge wisely, I am sure; I have so great a trust in you.’
“我对他很有信心，”杰基尔回答道。 “我有理由确信这一点，但我无法与任何人分享。但有一件事你可以给我建议。我已经——我收到了一封信；我不知道是否应该向警察出示它。我想把它交给你，厄特森；我相信你会做出明智的判断；我对你非常信任。

‘You fear, I suppose, that it might lead to his detection?’ asked the lawyer.
“我想，你担心这可能会导致他被发现？”律师问道。

‘No,’ said the other.’ I cannot say that I care what becomes of Hyde; I am quite done with him. I was thinking of my own character, which this hateful business has rather exposed.’
“不，”另一个说。“我不能说我关心海德的结局；我只是关心海德的处境。”我和他已经彻底完蛋了。我在想我自己的性格，这件可恶的事情已经暴露了我自己的性格。

Utterson ruminated a while; he was surprised at his friend’s selfishness, and yet relieved by it. ‘Well,’ said he, at last, ‘let me see the letter.’
厄特森沉思了一会儿；他对朋友的自私感到惊讶，但同时也松了口气。 “好吧，”他最后说道，“让我看看这封信。”

The letter was written in an odd, upright hand and signed ‘Edward Hyde”: and it signified, briefly enough, that the writer’s benefactor, Dr. Jekyll, whom he had long so unworthily repaid for a thousand generosities, need labour under no alarm for his safety, As he had means of escape on which he placed a sure dependence. The lawyer liked this letter well enough; it put a better colour on the intimacy than he had looked for; and he blamed himself for some of his past suspicions.
这封信是用一种奇怪的、正直的字体写成的，署名是“爱德华·海德”：它很简短地表明，作者的恩人杰基尔博士长期以来一直不值得地报答他一千次的慷慨，需要毫无惊慌的劳动。为了他的安全，因为他有可靠的逃生手段。律师很喜欢这封信。这给两人的亲密关系增添了比他想象中更好的色彩。他为自己过去的一些怀疑而自责。

‘Have you the envelope?’ he asked.
“你有信封吗？”他问。

‘I burned it,’ replied Jekyll,’ before I thought what I was about. But it bore no postmark. The note was handed in.’
“我把它烧了，”杰基尔回答道，“在我思考自己在做什么之前。”但它没有邮戳。纸条已经交了。”

‘Shall I keep this and sleep upon it?’ asked Utterson.
“我可以保留这个并睡在上面吗？”厄特森问道。

‘I wish you to judge for me entirely,’ was the reply. ‘I have lost confidence in myself.’
“我希望你完全为我做出判断，”他回答道。 “我对自己失去了信心。”

‘Well, I shall consider,’ returned the lawyer. ‘And now one word more: it was Hyde who dictated the terms in your will about that disappearance?’
“好吧，我会考虑一下，”律师回答道。 “现在再说一句：是海德在你的遗嘱中规定了关于那次失踪的条款？”

The doctor seemed seized with a qualm of faintness: he shut his mouth tight and nodded.
医生似乎感到一阵晕眩：他紧紧闭上嘴，点点头。

‘I knew it,’ said Utterson. ‘He meant to murder you. You have had a fine escape.’
“我知道，”厄特森说。 ‘他想谋杀你。你逃脱得很顺利。

‘I have had what is far more to the purpose,’ returned the doctor solemnly: ‘I have had a lesson — O God, Utterson, what a lesson I have had!’ And he covered his face for a moment with his hands.
“我已经得到了更符合目的的东西，”医生严肃地回答道，“我得到了教训——上帝啊，厄特森，我得到了多么好的教训啊！”他用手捂住了脸一会儿。

On his way out, the lawyer stopped and had a word or two with Poole. ‘By the by,’ said he, ‘there was a letter handed in to-day: what was the messenger like?’ But Poole was positive nothing had come except by post;’ and only circulars by that,’ he added.
在出去的路上，律师停下来与普尔说了一两句话。 “顺便说一句，”他说，“今天收到了一封信：信使是什么样的？”但普尔确信除了邮寄之外什么也没有收到；“而且只有传单，”他补充道。

This news sent off the visitor with his fears renewed. Plainly the letter had come by the laboratory door; possibly, indeed, it had been
这个消息让来访者再次感到恐惧。显然，这封信是从实验室门口寄来的。可能，确实，它曾经是

written in the cabinet; and if that were so, it must be differently judged, and handled with the more caution. The newsboys, as he went, were crying themselves hoarse along the footways: ‘Special edition. Shocking murder of an M. P.’ That was the funeral oration of one friend and client; and he could not help a certain apprehension lest the good name of another should be sucked down in the eddy of the scandal. It was, at least, a ticklish decision that he had to make; and self-reliant as he was by habit, he began to cherish a longing for advice. It was not to be had directly; but perhaps, he thought, it might be fished for.
写在内阁里；如果真是这样，就必须做出不同的判断，并更加谨慎地处理。当他走的时候，报童们在人行道上声嘶力竭地喊道：“特别版。”一名议员的令人震惊的谋杀案。”这是一位朋友兼客户的葬礼致词；他不禁心生忧虑，生怕另一个人的好名声被卷入丑闻的漩涡中。至少，这是他必须做出的一个棘手的决定。尽管他习惯于自力更生，但他开始渴望寻求建议。它不是可以直接得到的，而是可以直接得到的。但他想，也许有人会钓鱼。

Presently after, he sat on one side of his own hearth, with Mr. Guest, his head clerk, upon the other, and midway between, at a nicely calculated distance from the fire, a bottle of a particular old wine that had long dwelt unsunned in the foundations of his house. The fog still slept on the wing above the drowned city, where the lamps glimmered like carbuncles; and through the muffle and smother of these fallen clouds, the procession of the town’s life was still rolling in through the great arteries with a sound as of a mighty wind. But the room was gay with firelight. In the bottle the acids were long ago resolved; the imperial dye had softened with time, As the colour grows richer in stained windows; and the glow of hot autumn afternoons on hillside vineyards was ready to be set free
不久之后，他坐在自家壁炉的一侧，他的首席办事员盖斯特先生坐在另一侧，在中间，距火炉的距离经过精心计算，有一瓶特殊的陈年葡萄酒，该酒已经存放了很长时间。在他房子的地基上晒不到阳光。雾气仍然沉睡在这座被淹没的城市上空，那里的灯光像红宝石一样闪闪发光。透过这些落下的云层的闷热和窒息，小镇的生命之行仍在大动脉中滚滚而过，声音如同狂风一般。但房间里却充满了火光。瓶子里的酸早已溶解；随着时间的推移，皇家染料已经软化，随着彩色窗户的颜色变得更加丰富；山坡上葡萄园炎热的秋日午后的光芒已经准备好释放

and to disperse the fogs of London. Insensibly the lawyer melted. There was no man from whom he kept fewer secrets than Mr. Guest; and he was not always sure that he kept as many as he meant. Guest had often been on business to the doctor’s; he knew Poole; he could scarce have failed to hear of Mr. Hyde’s familiarity about the house; he might draw conclusions: was it not as well, then, that he should see a letter which put that mystery to rights? and above all since Guest, being a great student and critic of handwriting, would consider the step natural and obliging? The clerk, besides, was a man of counsel; he would scarce read so strange a document without dropping a remark; and by that remark Mr. Utterson might shape his future course.
驱散伦敦的迷雾。律师不知不觉地融化了。没有人比格斯特先生保守的秘密更少。而且他并不总是确定自己保留了他想要的数量。客人经常去医生那里出差。他认识普尔；他不可能不知道海德先生对这座房子很熟悉。他可能会得出结论：那么，他应该看到一封信来澄清这个谜团，不是更好吗？最重要的是，既然盖斯特是一位出色的学生和书法批评家，他会认为这一步骤自然而乐于助人吗？此外，店员还是一位顾问。读到如此奇怪的文件，他几乎不会不留下评论。厄特森先生可能会通过这句话来决定他未来的道路。

‘This is a sad business about Sir Danvers,’ he said.
“这对于丹弗斯爵士来说是一件令人悲伤的事情，”他说。

‘Yes, sir, indeed. It has elicited a great deal of public feeling,’ returned Guest. ‘The man, of course, was mad.’
“是的，先生，确实如此。它引起了很大的公众感情，”客人回答道。 “这个人当然很生气。”

‘I should like to hear your views on that,’ replied Utterson. ‘I have a document here in his handwriting; it is between ourselves, for I scarce know what to do about it; it is an ugly business at the best. But there it is; quite in your way a murderer’s autograph.’
“我想听听你对此的看法，”厄特森回答道。 “我这里有一份他亲笔写的文件；这是我们之间的事，因为我几乎不知道该怎么办。这充其量也是一项丑陋的生意。但它就在那里；很像凶手的签名。

Guest’s eyes brightened, and he sat down at once and studied it with passion. ‘No, sir,’ he said: ‘not mad; but it is an odd hand.’
客人眼睛一亮，立刻坐下来，饶有兴趣地研究起来。 “不，先生，”他说，“不是疯了；而是疯了。”但这是一手奇怪的牌。

‘And by all accounts a very odd writer,’ added the lawyer.
“从各方面来看，这是一位非常奇怪的作家，”律师补充道。

Just then the servant entered with a note.
就在这时，仆人拿着一张纸条走了进来。

‘Is that from Dr. Jekyll, sir?’ inquired the clerk. ‘I thought I knew the writing. Anything private, Mr. Utterson?’
“先生，这是杰基尔博士写的吗？”店员问道。 “我以为我知道字迹。厄特森先生，有什么私人的事吗？

‘Only an invitation to dinner. Why? Do you want to see it?’
“只是一份晚餐邀请。”为什么？你想看看吗？'

‘One moment. I thank you, sir”; and the clerk laid the two sheets of paper alongside and sedulously compared their contents. ‘Thank you, sir,’ he said at last, returning both; ‘it’s a very interesting autograph.’
‘等一下。我谢谢你，先生”；店员把两张纸放在一起，仔细地比较了其中的内容。 “谢谢您，先生。”他最后说道，同时还了两句话。 “这是一个非常有趣的签名。”

There was a pause, during which Mr. Utterson struggled with himself. ‘Why did you compare them, Guest?’ he inquired suddenly.
停顿了一会儿，厄特森先生陷入了自我挣扎。 “你为什么要比较它们，客人？”他突然问道。

‘Well, sir,’ returned the clerk, ‘there’s a rather singular resemblance; the two hands are in many points identical: only differently sloped.’
“嗯，先生，”店员回答道，“有一种相当奇特的相似之处；两只指针在很多方面都是相同的：只是倾斜度不同。

‘Rather quaint,’ said Utterson.
“相当古怪，”厄特森说。

‘It is, as you say, rather quaint,’ returned Guest.
“正如你所说，这相当古怪，”盖斯特回答道。

‘I wouldn’t speak of this note, you know,’ said the master.
“我不会谈论这张纸条，你知道，”大师说。

‘No, sir,’ said the clerk. ‘I understand.’
“不，先生，”店员说。 '我明白。'

But no sooner was Mr. Utterson alone that night than he locked the note into his safe, where it reposed from that time forward. ‘What!’ he thought.’ Henry Jekyll forge for a murderer!’ And his blood ran cold in his veins.
但那天晚上，厄特森先生一独自一人，就把这张纸条锁进了保险箱，从那时起它就一直放在那里。 “什么！”他想。“亨利·杰基尔伪造了一个杀人犯！”他的血管里的血液变冷了。

REMARKABLE INCIDENT OF DR. LANYON
博士的非凡事件兰永

TIME ran on; thousands of pounds were offered in reward, for the death of Sir Danvers was resented as a public injury; but Mr. Hyde had disappeared out of the ken of the police as though he had never existed. Much of his past was unearthed, indeed, and all disreputable: tales came out of the man’s cruelty, at once so callous and violent; of his vile life, of his strange associates, of the hatred that seemed to have surrounded his career; but of his present whereabouts, not a whisper. From the time he had left the house in Soho on the morning of the murder, he was simply blotted out; and gradually, as time drew on, Mr. Utterson began to recover from the hotness of his alarm, and to grow more at quiet with himself. The death of Sir Danvers was, to his way of thinking, more than paid for by the disappearance of Mr. Hyde. Now that that evil influence had been withdrawn, a new life began for Dr. Jekyll. He came out of his seclusion, renewed relations with his friends, became once more their familiar guest
时间在流逝；由于丹弗斯爵士的死被认为是公共伤害，因此人们提出了数千英镑的奖励。但海德先生已经从警察的视野中消失了，就好像他从来没有存在过一样。事实上，他的大部分过去都被挖掘出来了，而且都是声名狼藉的：故事源于这个人的残忍，既冷酷又暴力；他的卑鄙生活，他奇怪的伙伴，他的职业生涯似乎充满了仇恨；但对于他目前的行踪，却没有任何耳语。自从谋杀案发生那天早上他离开苏荷区的房子起，他就完全被抹去了。渐渐地，随着时间的推移，厄特森先生开始从他的惊慌中恢复过来，并变得更加平静。在丹弗斯爵士看来，海德先生的失踪所带来的代价远远超过了他的死亡。现在邪恶的影响已经消除，杰基尔博士的新生活开始了。他走出了隐居，与朋友恢复了关系，再次成为他们的熟客

and entertainer; and whilst he had always been, known for charities, he was now no less distinguished for religion. He was busy, he was much in the open air, he did good; his face seemed to open and brighten, as if with an inward consciousness of service; and for more than two months, the doctor was at peace.
和艺人；虽然他一直以慈善事业而闻名，但现在他在宗教方面也同样享有盛誉。他很忙，经常在户外活动，他做得很好。他的脸似乎开放了、明亮了，仿佛有一种内在的服务意识。两个多月以来，医生一直心安理得。

On the 8th of January Utterson had dined at the doctor’s with a small party; Lanyon had been there; and the face of the host had looked from one to the other as in the old days when the trio were inseparable friends. On the 12th, and again on the 14th, the door was shut against the lawyer. ‘The doctor was confined to the house,’ Poole said, ‘and saw no one.’ On the 15th, he tried again, and was again refused; and having now been used for the last two months to see his friend almost daily, he found this return of solitude to weigh upon his spirits. The fifth night he had in Guest to dine with him; and the sixth he betook himself to Dr. Lanyon’s.
1 月 8 日，厄特森在医生家举办了一场小型聚会，共进晚餐。兰宁曾在那儿；主人的脸从一个到另一个看起来就像过去三人是形影不离的朋友一样。 12日和14日，律师的大门都被关上了。 “医生被限制在家里，”普尔说，“没有见到任何人。”15日，他再次尝试，但再次被拒绝；在过去的两个月里，他几乎每天都去看望他的朋友，他发现这种孤独的回归让他的精神变得沉重。第五天晚上，他在盖斯特与他共进晚餐。第六天，他去了兰宁医生那里。

There at least he was not denied admittance; but when he came in, he was shocked at the change which had taken place in the doctor’s appearance. He had his death-warrant written legibly upon his face. The rosy man had grown pale; his flesh had fallen away; he was visibly balder and older; and yet it was not so much, these tokens of a swift physical decay that arrested the lawyer’s notice, as a look in the eye and quality of manner that seemed to testify to
至少他没有被拒绝入场。但当他进来时，他被医生外表发生的变化震惊了。他的死亡令清晰地写在他的脸上。红润的男人脸色变得苍白。他的肉已经脱落了；他明显秃顶了，也更老了。然而，并不是这些身体迅速腐烂的迹象引起了律师的注意，而是眼神和举止的品质似乎证明了

some deep-seated terror of the mind. It was unlikely that the doctor should fear death; and yet that was what Utterson was tempted to suspect. ‘Yes,’ he thought; ‘he is a doctor, he must know his own state and that his days are counted; and the knowledge is more than he can bear.’ And yet when Utterson remarked on his ill-looks, it was with an air of greatness that Lanyon declared himself a doomed man.
一些内心深处的恐惧。医生不太可能害怕死亡；他应该害怕死亡。然而厄特森很想怀疑这一点。 “是的，”他想。 ‘他是一名医生，他必须了解自己的状况，他的日子已经不多了；然而，当厄特森谈到他的丑陋时，兰宁带着一种伟大的神情宣称自己是一个注定要失败的人。

‘I have had a shock,’ he said, ‘and I shall never recover. It is a question of weeks. Well, life has been pleasant; I liked it; yes, sir, I used to like it. I sometimes think if we knew all, we should be more glad to get away.’
“我受到了打击，”他说，“我永远无法康复。”这是几周的问题。嗯，生活过得很愉快；我喜欢它；是的，先生，我以前很喜欢它。我有时想，如果我们知道一切，我们应该更高兴离开。

‘Jekyll is ill, too,’ observed Utterson. ‘Have you seen him?’
“杰基尔也病了，”厄特森观察到。 '你看见他了吗？'

But Lanyon’s face changed, and he held up a trembling hand. ‘I wish to see or hear no more of Dr. Jekyll,’ he said in a loud, unsteady voice. ‘I am quite done with that person; and I beg that you will spare me any allusion to one whom I regard as dead.’
但兰宁脸色一变，伸出了颤抖的手。 “我不想再看到或听到杰基尔博士的消息，”他大声说道，声音不稳定。 “我已经厌倦了那个人；我恳求你不要再提及一个我认为已经死了的人。

‘Tut-tut,’ said Mr. Utterson; and then after a considerable pause,’ Can’t I do anything?’ he inquired. ‘We are three very old friends, Lanyon; we shall not live to make others.’
“啧啧，”厄特森先生说。然后在相当长的停顿之后，“我能做点什么吗？”他问道。 “我们是三个非常老的朋友，兰宁；我们活着不是为了创造别人。”

‘Nothing can be done,’ returned Lanyon; ‘ask himself.’
“无能为力，”兰宁回答道。 “问问他自己。”

He will not see me,’ said the lawyer.
他不会见我，”律师说。

‘I am not surprised at that,’ was the reply. ‘Some day, Utterson, after I am dead, you may
“我对此并不感到惊讶，”回答道。 “有一天，厄特森，在我死后，你可能会

perhaps come to learn the right and wrong of this. I cannot tell you. And in the meantime, if you can sit and talk with me of other things, for God’s sake, stay and do so; but if you cannot keep clear of this accursed topic, then, in God’s name, go, for I cannot bear it.’
也许会逐渐了解这一点的对与错。我不能告诉你。与此同时，如果你能坐下来和我谈论其他事情，看在上帝的份上，就留下来吧；但如果你无法摆脱这个该死的话题，那么，看在上帝的份上，走吧，因为我无法忍受。

As soon as he got home, Utterson sat down and wrote to Jekyll, complaining of his exclusion from the house, and asking the cause of this unhappy break with Lanyon; and the next day brought him a long answer, often very pathetically worded, and sometimes darkly mysterious in drift. The quarrel with Lanyon was incurable. ‘I do not blame our old friend,’ Jekyll wrote, ‘but I share his view that we must never meet. I mean from henceforth to lead a life of extreme seclusion; you must not be surprised, nor must you doubt my friendship, if my door is often shut even to you. You must suffer me to go my own dark way. I have brought on myself a punishment and a danger that I cannot name. If I am the chief of sinners, I am the chief of sufferers also. I could not think that this earth contained a place for sufferings and terrors so unmanning; and you can do but one thing, Utterson, to lighten this destiny, and that is to respect my silence.’ Utterson was amazed; the dark influence of Hyde had been withdrawn, the doctor had returned to his old tasks and amities; a week ago, the prospect had smiled with every promise of a cheerful and an honoured age;
厄特森一回到家就坐下来写信给杰基尔，抱怨他被排除在家里，并询问与兰宁这次不愉快分手的原因；第二天，他收到了一份很长的答复，通常措辞非常可悲，有时还带有阴暗神秘的含义。与兰宁的争吵无可挽回。 “我不责怪我们的老朋友，”杰基尔写道，“但我同意他的观点，即我们永远不能见面。”我的意思是从今以后过着极度隐居的生活；如果我的门经常对你关闭，你不必感到惊讶，也不必怀疑我的友谊。你必须容忍我走我自己的黑暗道路。我给自己带来了一种无法形容的惩罚和危险。如果我是罪人之首，那么我也是受苦者之首。我无法想象这个地球上有如此无人的苦难和恐怖之地。厄特森，你只能做一件事来减轻这种命运，那就是尊重我的沉默。海德的黑暗影响已经消失，医生又回到了他原来的任务和友善之中。一周前，这位潜在客户还满面笑容，满脸幸福、光荣的岁月。

and now in a moment, friendship, and peace of mind, and the whole tenor of his life were wrecked. So great and unprepared a change pointed to madness; but in view of Lanyon’s manner and words, there must lie for it some deeper ground.
刹那间，友谊、内心的平静以及他生活的整个基调都被破坏了。如此巨大且毫无准备的变化表明了疯狂。但从兰宁的举止和言辞来看，这其中必定有更深层的原因。

A week afterwards Dr. Lanyon took to his bed, and in something less than a fortnight he was dead. The night after the funeral, at which he had been sadly affected, Utterson locked the door of his business room, and sitting there by the light of a melancholy candle, drew out and set before him an envelope addressed by the hand and sealed with the seal of his dead friend. ‘PRIVATE: for the hands of G. J. Utterson ALONE and in case of his predecease to be destroyed unread,’ so it was emphatically superscribed; and the lawyer dreaded to behold the contents. ‘I have buried one friend to-day,’ he thought: ‘what if this should cost me another?’ And then he condemned the fear as a disloyalty, and broke the seal. Within there was another enclosure, likewise sealed, and marked upon the cover as ‘not to be opened till the death or disappearance of Dr. Henry Jekyll.’ Utterson could not trust his eyes. Yes, it was disappearance; here again, as in the mad will which he had long ago restored to its author, here again were the idea of a disappearance and the name of Henry Jekyll bracketed. But in the will, that idea had sprung from the sinister suggestion of
一周后，兰宁医生卧床不起，不到两周的时间他就去世了。葬礼结束后的那个晚上，厄特森在葬礼上受到了悲伤的影响，他锁上了商务室的门，在忧郁的烛光下坐在那里，拿出一个信封放在他面前，信封上写着地址，并用信封封好。他死去的朋友的印章。 “私人：G. J.厄特森一人之手，以防万一他去世前未读就被销毁”，所以它被强调地注明了；律师不敢看里面的内容。 “我今天埋葬了一位朋友，”他想，“如果这会让我失去另一个朋友怎么办？”然后他谴责这种恐惧是一种不忠诚，并撕开了封印。里面还有另一个同样密封的外壳，并在盖子上标记为“在亨利·杰基尔博士死亡或失踪之前不得打开”。厄特森无法相信自己的眼睛。是的，这是失踪；在这里，就像他很久以前恢复给作者的疯狂遗嘱一样，这里再次出现了失踪的想法，并将亨利·杰基尔的名字放​​在括号中。但在遗嘱中，这个想法源自于险恶的暗示：

the man Hyde; it was set there with a purpose all too plain and horrible. Written by the hand of Lanyon, what should it mean? A great curiosity came on the trustee, to disregard the prohibition and dive at once to the bottom of these mysteries; but professional honour and faith to his dead friend were stringent obligations; and the packet slept in the inmost corner of his private safe.
海德这个人；它被设置在那里的目的实在是太简单和可怕了。兰宁手写的，这是什么意思？受托人产生了极大的好奇心，想要无视禁令，立即一探究竟。但职业荣誉和对他死去的朋友的信任是严格的义务。包裹就藏在他私人保险箱的最里面的角落里。

It is one thing to mortify curiosity, another to conquer it; and it may be doubted if, from that day forth, Utterson desired the society of his surviving friend with the same eagerness. He thought of him kindly; but his thoughts were disquieted and fearful. He went to call indeed; but he was perhaps relieved to be denied admittance; perhaps, in his heart, he preferred to speak with Poole upon the doorstep and surrounded by the air and sounds of the open city, rather than to be admitted into that house of voluntary bondage, and to sit and speak with its inscrutable recluse. Poole had, indeed, no very pleasant news to communicate. The doctor, it appeared, now more than ever confined himself to the cabinet over the laboratory, where he would sometimes even sleep; he was out of spirits, he had grown very silent, he did not read; it seemed as if he had something on his mind. Utterson became so used to the unvarying character of these reports, that he fell off little by little in the frequency of his visits.
抑制好奇心是一回事，征服好奇心则是另一回事。人们可能会怀疑，从那天起，厄特森是否也同样热切地渴望与他幸存的朋友交往。他对他的想法很友善；但他的想法却是不安和恐惧。他确实去拜访了；但也许他因被拒绝入场而松了一口气。也许，在他心里，他更愿意在门口的台阶上与普尔交谈，周围是开放城市的空气和声音，而不是被允许进入那座自愿奴役的房子，坐下来与其中神秘的隐士交谈。事实上，普尔没有什么令人高兴的消息可以传达。看来，医生现在比以往任何时候都更把自己限制在实验室上方的柜子里，有时甚至睡觉。他没有精神，变得非常沉默，也不读书。他似乎有什么心事。厄特森已经习惯了这些报道的不变性，以至于他的访问频率逐渐下降。

INCIDENT AT THE WINDOW
窗外事件

IT chanced on Sunday, when Mr. Utterson was on his usual walk with Mr. Enfield, that their way lay once again through the by-street; and that when they came in front of the door, both stopped to gaze on it.
周日，厄特森先生和恩菲尔德先生如往常一样散步时，碰巧他们又穿过那条小街。当他们来到门前时，两人都停下来凝视着门。

‘Well,’ said Enfield, ‘that story’s at an end at least. We shall never see more of Mr. Hyde.’
“好吧，”恩菲尔德说，“这个故事至少结束了。”我们再也见不到海德先生了。

‘I hope not,’ said Utterson. ‘Did I ever tell you that I once saw him, and shared your feeling of repulsion?’
“我希望不会，”厄特森说。 “我有没有告诉过你，我曾经见过他，并和你一样感到厌恶？”

‘It was impossible to do the one without the other,’ returned Enfield. ‘And by the way, what an ass you must have thought me, not to know that this was a back way to Dr. Jekyll’s! It was partly your own fault that I found it out, even when I did.’
“两者缺一不可，”恩菲尔德回答道。 “顺便说一句，你一定认为我是个混蛋，不知道这是通往杰基尔博士家的后路！”我发现了这一点，部分原因是你自己的错，即使我发现了。”

‘So you found it out, did you?’ said Utterson. ‘But if that be so, we may step into the court and take a look at the windows. To tell you the truth, I am uneasy about poor Jekyll; and even outside, I feel as if the presence of a friend might do him good.’
“所以你发现了，是吗？”厄特森说。 “但如果是这样的话，我们可以走进法庭看看窗户。说实话，我对可怜的杰基尔感到不安。即使在外面，我也觉得朋友的存在可能对他有好处。

The court was very cool and a little damp, and full of premature twilight, although the sky, high up overhead, was still bright with sunset. The middle one of the three windows was half-way open; and sitting close beside it, taking the air with an infinite sadness of mien, like some disconsolate prisoner, Utterson saw Dr. Jekyll.
球场里非常凉爽，有点潮湿，充满了过早的暮色，尽管头顶上的天空仍然被夕阳照亮。三扇窗户中，中间的一扇半开着。厄特森坐在它旁边，带着无限悲伤的神情呼吸着空气，就像某个郁郁寡欢的囚犯一样，厄特森看到了杰基尔博士。

‘What! Jekyll!’ he cried. ‘I trust you are better.’
'什么！ “杰基尔！”他喊道。 “我相信你会更好。”

‘I am very low, Utterson,’ replied the doctor, drearily, ‘very low. It will not last long, thank God.’
“我的情绪非常低落，厄特森，”医生沉闷地回答道，“非常低落。”感谢上帝，这不会持续太久。

‘You stay too much indoors,’ said the lawyer. ‘You should be out, whipping up the circulation like Mr. Enfield and me. (This is my cousin — Mr. Enfield — Dr. Jekyll.) Come, now; get your hat and take a quick turn with us.’
“你呆在室内的时间太多了，”律师说。 “你应该出去，像恩菲尔德先生和我一样促进流通。” （这是我的表弟——恩菲尔德先生——杰基尔博士。） 来吧，现在；戴上你的帽子，和我们一起快速转一圈。”

‘You are very good,’ sighed the other. ‘I should like to very much; but no, no, no, it is quite impossible; I dare not. But indeed, Utterson, I am very glad to see you; this is really a great pleasure; I would ask you and Mr. Enfield up, but the place is really not fit.’
“你真好。”另一个叹了口气。 “我非常愿意；但不，不，不，这是不可能的；我不敢。但事实上，厄特森，我很高兴见到你；这真是一件令人高兴的事；我想请你和恩菲尔德先生上去，但这个地方实在不合适。

‘Why then,’ said the lawyer, good-naturedly, ‘the best thing we can do is to stay down here and speak with you from where we are.’
“那么，”律师和善地说，“我们能做的最好的事情就是留在这儿，从我们现在所在的地方和你谈谈。”

‘That is just what I was about to venture to propose,’ returned the doctor with a smite. But the words were hardly uttered, before the smile was struck out of his face and succeeded
“这正是我正要冒险提出的建议，”医生一脸震惊地回答道。但话音刚落，他脸上的笑容就消失了，成功了。

by an expression of such abject terror and despair, as froze the very blood of the two gentlemen below. They saw it but for a glimpse, for the window was instantly thrust down; but that glimpse had been sufficient, and they turned and left the court without a word. In silence, too, they traversed the by-street; and it was not until they had come into a neighbouring thoroughfare, where even upon a Sunday there were still some stirrings of life, that Mr. Utterson at last turned and looked at his companion. They were both pale; and there was an answering horror in their eyes.
那种极度恐惧和绝望的表情，让下面两位先生的血液都凝固了。他们只瞥见了一眼，因为窗户立即被推了下来。但那一瞥已经足够了，他们一言不发地转身离开了法庭。他们也默默地穿过小街。直到他们来到附近的一条大道上，即使是在周日，这里仍然充满了生机，厄特森先生才终于转过身来看着他的同伴。他们的脸色都很苍白。他们的眼中充满了恐惧。

‘God forgive us, God forgive us,’ said Mr. Utterson.
“上帝宽恕我们，上帝宽恕我们，”厄特森先生说。

But Mr. Enfield only nodded his head very seriously and walked on once more in silence.
但恩菲尔德先生只是很认真地点了点头，又默默地继续前行。

THE LAST NIGHT
最后一晚

MR. UTTERSON was sitting by his fireside one evening after dinner, when he was surprised to receive a visit from Poole.
先生。有一天晚上，晚饭后，厄特森坐在炉边，惊讶地发现普尔来访。

‘Bless me, Poole, what brings you here?’ he cried; and then taking a second look at him, ‘What ails you?’ he added; ‘is the doctor ill?’
“上帝保佑我，普尔，是什么风把你吹到这里来的？”他喊道。然后又看了他一眼，“你怎么了？”他补充道。 “医生生病了吗？”

‘Mr. Utterson,’ said the man,’ there is something wrong.’
'先生。厄特森，”那人说，“出了点问题。”

Take a seat, and here is a glass of wine for you,’ said the lawyer. ‘Now, take your time, and tell me plainly what you want.’
请坐，这里有一杯酒给你。”律师说道。 “现在，慢慢来，明确地告诉我你想要什么。”

‘You know the doctor’s ways, sir,’ replied Poole, ‘and how he shuts himself up. Well, he’s shut up again in the cabinet; and I don’t like it, sir I wish I may die if I like it. Mr. Utterson, sir, I’m afraid.’
“你知道医生的做法，先生，”普尔回答说，“也知道他如何把自己封闭起来。好吧，他又被关在柜子里了；我不喜欢它，先生，如果我喜欢它，我希望我可以去死。厄特森先生，先生，恐怕。

‘Now, my good man,’ said the lawyer, ‘be explicit. What are you afraid of?’
“现在，我的好人，”律师说，“说得清楚一些。”你怕什么呢？'

‘I’ve been afraid for about a week,’ returned Poole, doggedly disregarding the question, ‘and I can bear it no more.’
“我已经害怕了大约一个星期，”普尔回答道，固执地无视这个问题，“我再也无法忍受了。”

The man’s appearance amply bore out his
男人的外貌充分证明了他的

words; his manner was altered for the worse; and except for the moment when he had first announced his terror, he had not once looked the lawyer in the face. Even now, he sat with the glass of wine untasted on his knee, and his eyes directed to a corner of the floor. ‘I can bear it no more,’ he repeated.
字;他的态度变得更糟了。除了他第一次宣布他的恐惧那一刻之外，他一次也没有正视过律师的脸。即使现在，他仍将那杯未尝的酒放在膝盖上，眼睛盯着地板的一角。 “我再也无法忍受了，”他重复道。

‘Come,’ said the lawyer, ‘I see you have some good reason, Poole; I see there is something seriously amiss. Try to tell me what it is.’
“来吧，”律师说，“我看你有一些充分的理由，普尔；我发现有什么严重的问题。试着告诉我那是什么。

‘I think there’s been foul play,’ said Poole, hoarsely.
“我认为这是犯规行为，”普尔沙哑地说。

‘Foul play!’ cried the lawyer, a good deal frightened and rather inclined to be irritated in consequence. ‘What foul play? What does the man mean?’
“犯规了！”律师喊道，他非常害怕，结果很容易生气。 ‘什么犯规行为？那人是什么意思？

‘I daren’t say, sir’ was the answer; ‘but will you come along with me and see for yourself?’
“我不敢说，先生。”他的回答是。 “但是你愿意跟我一起去看看吗？”

Mr. Utterson’s only answer was to rise and get his hat and great-coat; but he observed with wonder the greatness of the relief that appeared upon the butler’s face, and perhaps with no less, that the wine was still untasted when he set it down to follow.
厄特森先生唯一的回答是站起来拿帽子和大衣。但他惊讶地发现，管家脸上露出了极大的轻松，也许同样重要的是，当他放下酒时，酒还没有品尝。

It was a wild, cold, seasonable night of March, with a pale moon, lying on her back as though the wind had tilted her, and a flying wrack of the most diaphanous and lawny texture. The wind made talking difficult, and flecked the blood into the face. It seemed to have swept the
这是三月里一个狂野、寒冷、季节适宜的夜晚，一轮苍白的月亮仰躺在她的背上，仿佛风把她倾斜了，还有一艘飞行的、最透明的、草坪质地的残骸。风使说话变得困难，血迹溅到脸上。仿佛席卷了

streets unusually bare of passengers, besides; for Mr. Utterson thought he had never seen that part of London so deserted. He could have wished it otherwise; never in his life had he been conscious of so sharp a wish to see and touch his fellow-creatures; for struggle as he might, there was borne in upon his mind a crushing anticipation of calamity. The square, when they got there, was all full of wind and dust, and the thin trees in the garden were lashing themselves along the railing. Poole, who had kept all the way a pace or two ahead, now pulled up in the middle of the pavement, and in spite of the biting weather, took off his hat and mopped his brow with a red pocket-handkerchief. But for all the hurry of his cowing, these were not the dews of exertion that he wiped away, but the moisture of some strangling anguish; for his face was white and his voice, when he spoke, harsh and broken.
此外，街道上的行人异常稀少；因为厄特森先生认为他从未见过伦敦的那个地区如此荒凉。他本可以不这样希望的；但事实却是这样。他一生中从来没有如此强烈地渴望看到并触摸他的同胞。尽管他竭尽全力地挣扎，但他的心中却充满了对灾难的强烈预感。当他们到达那里时，广场上到处都是风和灰尘，花园里的细树沿着栏杆抽打着自己。普尔一直领先一两步，现在把车停在人行道中间，尽管天气刺骨，他还是摘下了帽子，用红色手帕擦了擦额头。尽管他急忙畏缩，但他擦去的并不是劳累时的露珠，而是某种令人窒息的痛苦的湿气。因为他的脸色苍白，说话时声音刺耳而破碎。

‘Well, sir,’ he said, ‘here we are, and God grant there be nothing wrong.’
“好吧，先生，”他说，“我们到了，愿上帝保佑没有任何问题。”

‘Amen, Poole,’ said the lawyer.
“阿门，普尔，”律师说。

Thereupon the servant knocked in a very guarded manner; the door was opened on the chain; and a voice asked from within, ‘Is that you, Poole?’
于是，仆人小心翼翼地敲了敲门。门是用链条打开的；里面有一个声音问道：“是你吗，普尔？”

‘It’s all right,’ said Poole. ‘Open the door.’ The hall, when they entered it, was brightly lighted up; the fire was built high; and about the hearth the whole of the servants, men and
“没关系，”普尔说。 “开门。” 当他们进入大厅时，大厅里灯火通明。火堆得很高；壁炉周围是所有的仆人，男人和

women, stood huddled together like a flock of sheep. At the sight of Mr. Utterson, the housemaid broke into hysterical whimpering; and the cook, crying out, ‘Bless God! it’s Mr. Utterson,’ ran forward as if to take him in her arms.
女人们像一群羊一样挤在一起站着。女仆一看到厄特森先生，就歇斯底里地呜咽起来。厨师大声喊道：“上帝保佑！” “是厄特森先生。”她向前跑去，好像要把他抱在怀里。

‘What, what? Are you all here?’ said the lawyer peevishly. ‘Very irregular, very unseemly; your master would be far from pleased.’
'什么什么？你们都在吗？”律师生气地说。 ‘非常不规则，非常不体面；你的主人会很不高兴的。

‘They’re all afraid,’ said Poole.
“他们都很害怕，”普尔说。

Blank silence followed, no one protesting; only the maid lifted up her voice and now wept loudly.
接下来一片寂静，没有人抗议。只有女仆提高了声音，放声大哭。

‘Hold your tongue!’ Poole said to her, with a ferocity of accent that testified to his own jangled nerves; and indeed, when the girl had so suddenly raised the note of her lamentation, they had all started and turned toward the inner door with faces of dreadful expectation. ‘And now,’ continued the butler, addressing the knife-boy, ‘reach me a candle, and we’ll get this through hands at once.’ And then he begged Mr. Utterson to follow him, and led the way to the back-garden.
“闭嘴！”普尔对她说，语气凶狠，这证明了他自己紧张的神经。确实，当女孩突然发出悲痛的声音时，他们都吓了一跳，转向内门，脸上露出可怕的期待。 “现在，”管家对刀童继续说道，“给我一支蜡烛，我们马上就能把它拿到手。”然后他请求厄特森先生跟着他，带路到了餐厅。后花园。

‘Now, sir,’ said he, ‘you come as gently as you can. I want you to hear, and I don’t want you to be heard. And see here, sir, if by any chance he was to ask you in, don’t go.’
“现在，先生，”他说，“请尽可能轻柔地过来。”我想让你听到，又不想让你听到。听着，先生，万一他要请你进去，就别去。”

Mr. Utterson’s nerves, at this unlooked-for termination, gave a jerk that nearly threw him from his balance; but he re-collected his courage
厄特森先生的神经在这出乎意料的终止中猛烈地抽搐了一下，几乎让他失去了平衡。但他重新鼓起勇气

and followed the butler into the laboratory building and through the surgical theatre, with its lumber of crates and bottles, to the foot of the stair. Here Poole motioned him to stand on one side and listen; while he himself, setting down the candle and making a great and obvious call on his resolution, mounted the steps and knocked with a somewhat uncertain hand on the red baize of the cabinet door.
然后跟着管家走进实验室大楼，穿过堆满板条箱和瓶子的手术室，来到楼梯脚下。普尔示意他站在一边听。而他本人则放下蜡烛，对自己的决心做出了重大而明显的呼吁，登上了台阶，用有些不确定的手敲了敲柜门的红色台布。

‘Mr. Utterson, sir, asking to see you, ‘he called; and even as he did so, once more violently signed to the lawyer to give ear.
'先生。厄特森，先生，要求见您，“他打来电话；”就在他这么做的时候，他再次猛烈地示意律师听从。

A voice answered from within: ‘Tell him I cannot see any one,’ it said complainingly.
里面传来一个声音：“告诉他我看不见任何人。”它抱怨道。

‘Thank you, sir,’ said Poole, with a note of something like triumph in his voice; and taking up his candle, he led Mr. Utterson back across the yard and into the great kitchen, where the fire was out and the beetles were leaping on the floor.
“谢谢您，先生。”普尔说道，他的声音里带着一丝胜利的味道。他拿起蜡烛，领着厄特森先生穿过院子，走进大厨房，火已经灭了，甲虫在地板上跳跃。

‘Sir,’ he said, looking Mr. Utterson in the eyes,’ was that my master’s voice?’
“先生，”他看着厄特森先生的眼睛说道，“那是我主人的声音吗？”

‘It seems much changed,’ replied the lawyer, very pale, but giving look for look.
“看来变化很大了，”律师回答道，他的脸色非常苍白，但仍四处张望。

‘Changed? Well, yes, I think so,’ said the butler. ‘Have I been twenty years in this man’s house, to be deceived about his voice? No, sir; master’s made away with; he was made, away with eight days ago, when we heard him cry out upon the name of God; and who’s in there instead of him, and why it stays there, is a thing that cries to Heaven, Mr. Utterson!’
‘改变了？嗯，是的，我想是的，”管家说。 “难道我在这个人家里待了二十年，就被他的声音所欺骗了吗？”不，先生;主人被带走了；八天前，当我们听到他呼求上帝之名时，他就被带走了。是谁而不是他在那里，为什么它留在那里，这是一件向天堂哭泣的事情，厄特森先生！

‘This is a very strange tale, Poole; this is rather a wild tale, my man,’ said Mr. Utterson, biting his finger. ‘Suppose it were as you suppose, supposing Dr. Jekyll to have been — well, murdered, what could induce the murderer to stay? That won’t hold water; it doesn’t commend itself to reason.’
“这是一个非常奇怪的故事，普尔； “这真是一个荒唐的故事，老兄，”厄特森先生咬着手指说道。 “假设事情如你所想，假设杰基尔博士被——嗯，被谋杀了，什么能让凶手留下来呢？”那是站不住脚的；它不推荐自己进行推理。

‘Well, Mr. Utterson, you are a hard man to satisfy, but I’ll do it yet,’ said Poole. ‘All this last week (you must know) him, or it, or whatever it is that lives in that cabinet, has been crying night and day for some sort of medicine and cannot get it to his mind. It was sometimes his way — the master’s, that is — to write his orders on a sheet of paper and throw it on the stair. We’ve had nothing else this week back; nothing but papers, and a closed door, and the very meals left there to be smuggled in when nobody was looking. Well, sir, every day, ay, and twice and thrice in the same day, there have been orders and complaints, and I have been sent flying to all the wholesale chemists in town. Every time I brought the stuff back, there would be another paper telling me to return it, because it was not pure, and another order to a different firm. This drug is wanted bitter bad, sir, whatever for.’
“好吧，厄特森先生，你是一个很难满足的人，但我还是会这么做，”普尔说。 “上周（你必须知道）他，或者它，或者那个柜子里的任何东西，一直在夜以继日地哭泣，想要某种药物，却无法将其记在心里。有时他的方式——也就是说，主人的方式——把他的命令写在一张纸上，然后把它扔到楼梯上。这周我们没有别的事了；除了文件之外什么也没有，门紧闭，饭菜也留在那儿，趁没人注意时偷运进来。好吧，先生，每天，哎呀，同一天两次三次，都有订单和投诉，我被派往城里所有的批发药店。每次我把东西带回来，都会有另一张纸告诉我要退回它，因为它不纯，还有另一份订单给另一家公司。先生，无论如何，人们都非常想要这种药。”

‘Have you any of these papers?’ asked Mr. Utterson.
“你有这些文件吗？”厄特森先生问道。

Poole felt in his pocket and handed out a crumpled note, which the lawyer, bending nearer
普尔伸手摸了摸口袋，拿出一张皱巴巴的纸条，律师弯下身子靠近了那张纸条。

to the candle, carefully examined. Its contents ran thus: ‘Dr. Jekyll presents his compliments to Messrs. Maw. He assures them that their last sample is impure and quite useless for his present purpose. In the year 18 — , Dr. J. purchased a somewhat large quantity from Messrs. M. He now begs them to search with the most sedulous care, and should any of the same quality be left, to forward it to him at once. Expense is no consideration. The importance of this to Dr. J. can hardly be exaggerated.’ So far the letter had run composedly enough, but here with a sudden splutter of the pen, the writer’s emotion had broken loose. ‘For God’s sake,’ he had added, ‘find me some of the old.’
对蜡烛，仔细检查。其内容是这样的：‘博士。杰基尔向莫先生致意。他向他们保证，他们的最后一个样本是不纯的，对于他目前的目的来说毫无用处。 18年，J.博士从M先生那里购买了相当多的数量。他现在恳求他们仔细寻找，如果剩下任何相同质量的，请立即转发给他。费用不予考虑。这对 J. 博士的重要性怎么夸大都不过分。” 到目前为止，这封信写得还算平静，但随着笔的突然颤抖，作者的情绪爆发了。 “看在上帝的份上，”他补充道，“给我找一些旧的。”

‘This is a strange note,’ said Mr. Utterson; and then sharply, ‘How do you come to have it open?’
“这是一张奇怪的纸条，”厄特森先生说。然后尖锐地问，“你怎么把它打开的？”

‘The man at Maw’s was main angry, sir, and he threw it back to me like so much dirt,’ returned Poole.
“Maw’s 的那个人非常生气，先生，他把它像垃圾一样扔回给我，”普尔回答道。

‘This is unquestionably the doctor’s hand, do you know?’ resumed the lawyer.
“这无疑是医生的手，你知道吗？”律师继续说道。

‘I thought it looked like it,’ said the servant rather sulkily; and then, with another voice, ‘But what matters hand-of-write? ‘ he said. ‘I’ve seen him!’
“我觉得看起来很像，”仆人闷闷不乐地说。然后，另一个声音问道：“但是手写有什么重要的呢？” ' 他说。 “我见过他！”

‘Seen him?’ repeated Mr. Utterson. ‘Well?’
“看到他了吗？”厄特森先生重复道。 '出色地？'

‘That’s it!’ said Poole. ‘It was this way. I came suddenly into the theatre from the
“就是这样！”普尔说。 ’原来如此。我突然从剧院走进剧院

garden. It seems he had slipped out to look for this drug or whatever it is; for the cabinet door was open, and there he was at the far end of the room digging among the crates. He looked up when I came in, gave a kind of cry, and whipped up-stairs into the cabinet. It was but for one minute that I saw him, but the hair stood upon my head like quills. Sir, if that was my master, why had he a mask upon his face? If it was my master, why did he cry out like a rat, and run from me? I have served him long enough. And then...’ The man paused and passed his hand over his face.
花园。看来他是溜出去寻找这种药物或其他什么东西的；因为柜子的门是开着的，而他就在房间的另一端，在板条箱中挖东西。当我进来时，他抬起头，发出一声叫喊，然后迅速跑上楼，进入柜子里。我只看到他一分钟，但头发却像羽毛笔一样竖在我的头上。先生，如果那是我的主人，为什么他脸上戴着面具？如果是我的主人，为什么他会像老鼠一样大喊大叫，然后逃离我的身边呢？我已经为他服务够久了。然后……”男人停了下来，用手捂住了脸。

‘These are all very strange circumstances,’ said Mr. Utterson, ‘but I think I begin to see daylight. Your master, Poole, is plainly seised with one of those maladies that both torture and deform the sufferer; hence, for aught I know, the alteration of his voice; hence the mask and the avoidance of his friends; hence his eagerness to find this drug, by means of which the poor soul retains some hope of ultimate recovery — God grant that he be not deceived! There is my explanation; it is sad enough, Poole, ay, and appalling to consider; but it is plain and natural, hangs well together, and delivers us from all exorbitant alarms.’
“这些都是非常奇怪的情况，”厄特森先生说，“但我想我开始看到曙光了。”你的主人普尔显然患有一种既折磨患者又使患者变形的疾病。因此，据我所知，他的声音发生了变化。因此他的朋友们戴着面具并回避；因此，他渴望找到这种药物，通过这种药物，可怜的灵魂保留了最终康复的希望——上帝保佑他不要被欺骗！这是我的解释；普尔，是的，想想就够悲伤和令人震惊的了；但它简单而自然，紧密结合在一起，使我们免受所有过度的警报。

‘Sir,’ said the butler, turning to a sort of mottled pallor, ‘that thing was not my master, and there’s the truth. My master’ here he looked round him and began to whisper — ‘is
“先生，”管家脸色变得有些苍白，说道，“那东西不是我的主人，这是事实。我的主人，”他环顾四周，开始低声说道——“是

a tall, fine build of a man, and this was more of a dwarf.’ Utterson attempted to protest. ‘O, sir,’ cried Poole, ‘do you think I do not know my master after twenty years? Do you think I do not know where his head comes to in the cabinet door, where I saw him every morning of my life? No, Sir, that thing in the mask was never Dr. Jekyll — God knows what it was, but it was never Dr. Jekyll; and it is the belief of my heart that there was murder done.’
一个身材高大、体格健壮的男人，而这个更像是一个侏儒。”厄特森试图抗议。 “哦，先生，”普尔喊道，“你以为二十年后我还不认识我的主人了吗？你以为我不知道他的头在柜门的什么地方，我一生中每天早上都在哪里看到他吗？不，先生，那个戴着面具的东西从来都不是杰基尔博士——天知道那是什么，但它从来都不是杰基尔博士；它只是一个人。我内心相信这是一起谋杀案。”

‘Poole,’ replied the lawyer, ‘if you say that, it will become my duty to make certain. Much as I desire to spare your master’s feelings, much as I am puzzled by this note which seems to prove him to be still alive, I shall consider it my duty to break in that door.’
“普尔，”律师回答道，“如果你这么说，我就有责任去确认。”尽管我很想不伤害你主人的感情，尽管我对这张似乎证明他还活着的字条感到困惑，但我还是认为闯入那扇门是我的责任。

Ah Mr. Utterson, that’s talking!’ cried the butler.
啊，厄特森先生，这就是说话！”管家喊道。

‘And now comes the second question,’ resumed Utterson: ‘Who Is going to do it?’
“现在第二个问题来了，”厄特森继续说道：“谁来做这件事？”

‘Why, you and me,’ was the undaunted reply.
“为什么，你和我，”这是无畏的回答。

‘That’s very well said,’ returned the lawyer; ‘and whatever comes of it, I shall make it my business to see you are no loser.’
“说得很好，”律师回答道。 “无论结果如何，我都会以确保你不再是失败者为己任。”

‘There is an axe in the theatre, continued Poole; ‘and you might take the kitchen poker for yourself.’
“剧院里有一把斧子，”普尔继续说道； “你也可以把厨房里的扑克占为己有。”

The lawyer took that rude but weighty instrument into his hand, and balanced it. ‘Do you know, Poole,’ he said, looking up, ‘that
律师将那件粗鲁但却沉甸甸的工具拿在手里，平衡了一下。 “你知道吗，普尔，”他抬起头说道，“

you and I are about to place ourselves in a position of some peril?’
你和我即将把自己置于危险的境地吗？

‘You may say so, sir, indeed,’ returned the butler.
“您确实可以这么说，先生，”管家回答道。

‘It is well, then, that we should be frank,’ said the other. ‘We both think more than we have said; let us make a clean breast. This masked figure that you saw, did you recognise it?’
“那么，我们应该坦白一些，”另一个人说道。 “我们想的比说的多；让我们坦白说吧。你看到的这个蒙面人，你认识吗？

‘Well, sir, it went so quick, and the creature was so doubled up, that I could hardly swear to that,’ was the answer. ‘But if you mean, was it Mr. Hyde? — why, yes, I think it was! You see, it was much of the same bigness; and it had the same quick, light way with it; and then who else could have got in by the laboratory door? You have not forgot, sir that at the time of the murder he had still the key with him? But that’s not all. I don’t know, Mr. Utterson, if ever you met this Mr. Hyde?’
“好吧，先生，事情发生得太快了，而且这个生物被折叠起来了，我几乎无法发誓，”他回答道。 “但如果你的意思是，是海德先生吗？” ——为什么，是的，我想是的！你看，它的大小几乎是一样的。它也有同样快速、轻松的方式；那么还有谁可以从实验室门进来呢？先生，您没有忘记，谋杀发生时他还带着钥匙吗？但这还不是全部。我不知道，厄特森先生，您是否见过这位海德先生？

‘Yes,’ said the lawyer, ‘I once spoke with him.’
“是的，”律师说，“我曾经和他谈过。”

‘Then you must know as well as the rest of us that there was something queer about that gentleman — something that gave a man a turn — I don’t know rightly how to say it, sir, beyond this: that you felt it in your marrow kind of cold and thin.’
“那么你一定和我们其他人一样知道，那位绅士身上有某种奇怪的东西——一种让一个人转变的东西——我不知道如何正确地表达它，先生，除此之外：你在你的骨髓又冷又薄。

‘I own I felt something of what you describe,’ said Mr. Utterson.
“我承认我感受到了你所描述的一些东西，”厄特森先生说。

‘Quite so, sir,’ returned Poole. ‘Well, when
“确实如此，先生，”普尔回答道。 ‘那么，当

that masked thing like a monkey jumped from among the chemicals and whipped into the cabinet, it went down my spine like ice. Oh, I know it’s not evidence, Mr. Utterson. I’m book-learned enough for that; but a man has his, feelings, and I give you my Bible-word it was Mr. Hyde!’
那个像猴子一样的蒙面东西从化学物质中跳出来，被鞭打进柜子里，它像冰一样顺着我的脊椎滑下去。哦，我知道这不是证据，厄特森先生。我在书本上学到的知识足以做到这一点；但每个人都有他的感情，我用圣经的话告诉你，那就是海德先生！

‘Ay, ay,’ said the lawyer. ‘My fears incline to the same point. Evil, I fear, founded — evil was sure to come — of that connection. Ay, truly, I believe you; I believe poor Harry is killed; and I believe his murderer (for what purpose, God alone can tell) is still lurking in his victim’s room. Well, let our name be vengeance. Call Bradshaw.’
“哎呀，哎呀，”律师说。 “我的恐惧倾向于同一点。我担心，邪恶是从这种联系中建立起来的——邪恶肯定会到来。哎呀，真的，我相信你；我相信可怜的哈利被杀了；我相信凶手（出于什么目的，只有上帝才能知道）仍然潜伏在受害者的房间里。好吧，让我们的名字叫复仇。打电话给布拉德肖。”

The footman came at the summons, very white and nervous.
男仆应召而来，脸色苍白，神色紧张。

Pull yourself together, Bradshaw,’ said the lawyer. ‘This suspense, I know, is telling upon all of you; but it is now our intention to make an end of it. Poole, here, and I are going to force our way into the cabinet. If all is well, my shoulders are broad enough to bear the blame. Meanwhile, lest anything should really be amiss, or any malefactor seek to escape by the back, you and the boy must go round the corner with a pair of good sticks and take your post at the laboratory door. We give you ten minutes to get to your stations.’
布拉德肖，振作起来，”律师说。 “我知道，这个悬念正在向你们所有人讲述；但现在我们打算结束它。普尔，在这里，我和我要强行进入内阁。如果一切顺利的话，我的肩膀足够宽广，可以承担责任。与此同时，为了避免出现任何问题，或者有任何坏人想从后面逃跑，你和男孩必须拿着两根好棍子绕过拐角，在实验室门口就位。我们给您十分钟时间到达车站。

As Bradshaw left, the lawyer looked at his watch. ‘And now, Poole, let us get to ours,’
布拉德肖离开时，律师看了看手表。 “现在，普尔，让我们开始吧。”

he said; and taking the poker under his arm, led the way into the yard. The scud had banked over the moon, and it was now quite dark. The wind, which only broke in puffs and draughts into that deep well of building, tossed the light of the candle to and fro about their steps, until they came into the shelter of the theatre, where they sat down silently to wait. London hummed solemnly all around; but nearer at hand, the stillness was only broken by the sounds of a footfall moving to and fro along the cabinet floor.
他说;他把拨火棍夹在腋下，带路走进院子。飞毛腿已经飞过月亮，现在天已经完全黑了。风只是一阵一阵地吹进建筑物的深井里，把烛光吹得在他们的脚步上来来回回，直到他们来到剧院的庇护所里，静静地坐下来等待。伦敦到处都是庄严的嗡嗡声。但近处，只有柜子地板上来来往往的脚步声打破了这份寂静。

‘So it will walk all day, Sir,’ whispered Poole; ‘ay, and the better part of the night. Only when a new sample comes from the chemist, there’s a bit of a break. Ah, it’s an ill conscience that’s such an enemy to rest! Ah, sir, there’s blood foully shed in every step of it! But hark again, a little closer — put your heart in your ears, Mr. Utterson, and tell me, is that the doctor’s foot?’
“这样它就会走一整天，先生，”普尔低声说道。好吧，还有那晚的大部分时间。只有当化学家提供新样品时，才会出现一些中断。啊，这是一个良心不安的人，这样的敌人才能安息！啊，先生，每一步都流着血！但请再听一次，靠近一点——把你的心放在耳朵里，厄特森先生，告诉我，那是医生的脚吗？

The steps fell lightly and oddly, with a certain swing, for all they went so slowly; it was different indeed from the heavy creaking tread of Henry Jekyll. Utterson sighed. ‘Is there never anything else?’ he asked.
脚步轻轻地、奇怪地落下，虽然走得很慢，但还是有一定的摆动。这确实与亨利·杰基尔沉重的嘎吱嘎吱的脚步声不同。厄特森叹了口气。 “就没有别的事了吗？”他问道。

Poole nodded. ‘Once,’ he said. ‘Once I heard it weeping!’
普尔点点头。 “一次，”他说。 “有一次我听到它在哭泣！”

‘Weeping? how that?’ said the lawyer, conscious of a sudden chill of horror.
‘哭？怎么会这样？”律师说，他突然感到一阵恐怖的寒意。

‘Weeping like a woman or a lost soul,’ said
“像一个女人或迷失的灵魂一样哭泣，”说

the butler. ‘I came away with that upon my heart, that I could have wept too.’
管家。 “我离开时心里一直想着，我也可能会哭。”

But now the ten minutes drew to an end. Poole disinterred the axe from under a stack of packing straw; the candle was set upon the nearest table to light them to the attack; and they drew near with bated breath to where that patient foot was still going up and down, up and down, in the quiet of the night.
但现在十分钟就结束了。普尔从一堆包装稻草下挖出了斧头；蜡烛放在最近的桌子上，为他们的进攻提供照明。他们屏息凝神地走近那只脚仍在静谧的夜色中不断上上下下的地方。

‘Jekyll,’ cried Utterson, with a loud voice, ‘I demand to see you.’ He paused a moment, but there came no reply. ‘I give you fair warning, our suspicions are aroused, and I must and shall see you,’ he resumed; ‘if not by fair means, then by foul! if not of your consent, then by brute force!’
“杰基尔，”厄特森大声喊道，“我要求见你。”他停顿了一下，但没有回应。 “我给你公平的警告，我们的怀疑已经引起了，我必须而且将会见你，”他继续说道。 ‘如果不是通过公平手段，那就是犯规！如果不征得你的同意，那就用暴力！”

‘Utterson,’ said the voice, ‘for God’s sake, have mercy!’
“厄特森，”那个声音说道，“看在上帝的份上，发发慈悲吧！”

Ah, that’s not Jekyll’s voice — it’s Hyde’s!’ cried Utterson. ‘Down with the door, Poole!’
啊，那不是杰基尔的声音，而是海德的声音！”厄特森喊道。 “普尔，把门推倒！”

Poole swung the axe over his shoulder; the blow shook the building, and the red baise door leaped against the lock and hinges. A dismal screech, as of mere animal terror, rang from the cabinet. Up went the axe again, and again the panels crashed and the frame bounded; four times the blow fell; but the wood was tough and the fittings were of excellent workmanship; and it was not until the fifth, that the lock burst in sunder and the wreck of the door fell inwards on the carpet.
普尔将斧头举过肩头挥舞。这一击震动了建筑物，红色的百色门跳到了锁和铰链上。柜子里传来一阵凄凉的尖叫声，仿佛纯粹是动物的恐惧。斧头再次举起，面板再次崩裂，框架再次弹起。四次打击；但木材坚韧，配件做工精良。直到第五天，门锁突然爆裂，门的残骸向内掉到了地毯上。

The besiegers, appalled by their own riot and the stillness that had succeeded, stood back a little and peered in. There lay the cabinet before their eyes in the quiet lamplight, a good fire glowing and chattering on the hearth, the kettle singing its thin strain, a drawer or two open, papers neatly set forth on the business-table, and nearer the fire, the things laid out for tea: the quietest room, you would have said, and, but for the glased presses full of chemicals, the most commonplace that night in London.
围攻者们对自己的骚乱和随之而来的寂静感到震惊，退后了一点，向里面张望。在安静的灯光下，柜子就摆在他们眼前，壁炉里生着旺火，叽叽喳喳，水壶在微弱地唱着歌。应变，一两个抽屉打开，文件整齐地放在商务桌上，靠近火炉，摆放着泡茶的东西：你可能会说，这是最安静的房间，而且，如果没有装满化学品的玻璃压榨机，这是伦敦当晚最常见的事。

Right in the midst there lay the body of a man sorely contorted and still twitching. They drew near on tiptoe, turned it on its back and beheld the face of Edward Hyde. He was dressed in clothes far too large for him, clothes of the doctor’s bigness; the cords of his face still moved with a semblance of life, but life was quite gone; and by the crushed phial in the hand and the strong smell of kernels that hung upon the air, Utterson knew that he was looking on the body of a self-destroyer.
正中间躺着一个男人的身体，身体剧烈扭曲，还在抽搐。他们踮起脚尖走近，把它翻过来，看到了爱德华·海德的脸。他穿的衣服对他来说太大了，是医生的大衣服。他脸上的纹路仍然带着生命的气息，但生命已经消失了。厄特森从手中压碎的小瓶和空气中弥漫的玉米粒的强烈气味知道，他看到的是一具自我毁灭者的尸体。

‘We have come too late,’ he said sternly, ‘whether to save or punish. Hyde is gone to his account; and it only remains for us to find the body of your master.’
“我们来得太迟了，”他严厉地说，“无论是拯救还是惩罚。”海德已经去了他的账户；我们只需要找到你主人的尸体就可以了。”

The far greater proportion of the building was occupied by the theatre, which filled almost the whole ground story and was lighted from above, and by the cabinet, which formed an upper story at one end and looked upon the
这座建筑的大部分面积被剧院占据，剧院几乎占据了整个底层，并从上方照明，而橱柜则在一端形成了上层，俯瞰着整个底层。

court. A corridor joined the theatre to the door on the by-street; and with this the cabinet communicated separately by a second flight of stairs. There were besides a few dark closets and a spacious cellar. All these they now thoroughly examined. Each closet needed but a glance, for all were empty, and all, by the dust that fell from their doors, had stood long unopened. The cellar, indeed, was filled with crazy lumber, mostly dating from the times of the surgeon who was Jekyll’s predecessor; but even as they opened the door they were advertised of the uselessness of further search, by the fall of a perfect mat of cobweb which had for years sealed up the entrance. Nowhere was there any trace of Henry Jekyll, dead or alive.
法庭。一条走廊将剧院与小街的门口连接起来。由此，内阁通过第二段楼梯单独连通。除此之外还有几个黑暗的壁橱和一个宽敞的地窖。他们现在对所有这些进行了彻底的检查。每个壁橱都只需看一眼，因为所有壁橱都是空的，而且从门上落下的灰尘来看，所有壁橱都已经长期没有打开过。事实上，地窖里堆满了疯狂的木材，大部分都是杰基尔的前任外科医生时代的。但当他们打开门时，多年来封锁入口的完美蜘蛛网掉落下来，表明进一步的搜索是无用的。到处都没有亨利·杰基尔的踪迹，无论是死的还是活着的。

Poole stamped on the flags of the corridor. ‘ He must be buried here,’ he said, hearkening to the sound.
普尔在走廊的旗帜上踩着脚。 “他必须被埋在这里，”他听着声音说道。

‘Or he may have fled,’ said Utterson, and he turned to examine the door in the by-street. It was locked; and lying near by on the flags, they found the key, already stained with rust.
“或者他可能已经逃走了，”厄特森说，然后转身检查了小巷的门。它被锁住了；他们在附近的旗帜上发现了钥匙，钥匙已经锈迹斑斑。

‘This does not look like use,’ observed the lawyer.
“这看起来不像是使用，”律师评论道。

‘Use!’ echoed Poole. ‘Do you not see, sir, it is broken? much as if a man had stamped on it.’
“使用！”普尔附和道。 “先生，你没看到它坏了吗？就像一个人在上面踩过一样。

‘Ay,’ continued Utterson,’ and the fractures, too, are rusty.’ The two men looked at each other with a scare. ‘This is beyond me,
“哎呀，”厄特森继续说道，“而且骨折处也生锈了。”两个人惊恐地看着对方。 ‘这超出了我的范围，

Poole,’ said the lawyer. ‘Let us go back to the cabinet.’
普尔，”律师说。 “让我们回到内阁吧。”

They mounted the stair in silence, and still with an occasional awe-struck glance at the dead body, proceeded more thoroughly to examine the contents of the cabinet. At one table, there were traces of chemical work, various measured heaps of some white salt being laid on glass saucers, as though for an experiment in which the unhappy man had been prevented.
他们默默地走上楼梯，偶尔仍敬畏地瞥一眼尸体，然后更彻底地检查柜子里的东西。在一张桌子上，有化学工作的痕迹，玻璃碟上放着各种测量过的白色盐堆，仿佛在进行一项实验，阻止了那个不幸的人。

‘That is the same drug that I was always bringing him,’ said Poole; and even as he spoke, the kettle with a startling noise boiled over.
“我一直给他带的就是这种药，”普尔说。正当他说话的时候，水壶就沸腾了，发出惊人的声音。

This brought them to the fireside, where the easy-chair was drawn cosily up, and the teathings stood ready to the sitter’s elbow, the very sugar in the cup. There were several books on a shelf; one lay beside the tea-things open, and Utterson was amazed to find it a copy of a pious work, for which Jekyll had several times expressed a great esteem, annotated, in his own hand, with startling blasphemies.
这把他们带到了炉边，安乐椅被舒适地拉了起来，茶水和杯子里的糖都放在坐着的人的肘部。书架上有几本书；一个放在打开的茶具旁边，厄特森惊讶地发现它是一本虔诚的作品的副本，杰基尔曾多次对此表示过极大的敬意，但他亲笔注释的却是令人震惊的亵渎。

Next, in the course of their review of the chamber, the searchers came to the cheval glass, into whose depths they looked with an involuntary horror. But it was so turned as to show them nothing but the rosy glow playing on the roof, the fire sparkling in a hundred repetitions along the glazed front of the presses, and their own pale and fearful countenances stooping to look in.
接下来，在检查房间的过程中，搜索者来到了骑士玻璃前，他们不由自主地恐惧地看着玻璃的深处。但它变成了这样，只向他们展示屋顶上的玫瑰色光芒，沿着印刷机的玻璃正面一百次重复闪烁的火焰，以及弯下腰向里看的他们自己苍白而恐惧的面容。

‘This glass have seen some strange things, sir,’ whispered Poole.
“这块玻璃看到了一些奇怪的东西，先生，”普尔低声说道。

‘And surely none stranger than itself,’ echoed the lawyer in the same tones. ‘For what did Jekyll’ — he caught himself up at the word with a start, and then conquering the weakness — ‘what could Jekyll want with it?’ he said.
“当然没有比它自己更奇怪的了，”律师用同样的语气重复道。 “杰基尔要做什么？”他一听到这个词就愣住了，然后克服了弱点，“杰基尔想用它做什么？”他说。

‘You may say that!’ said Poole. Next they turned to the business-table. On the desk among the neat array of papers, a large envelope was uppermost, and bore, in the doctor’s hand, the name of Mr. Utterson. The lawyer unsealed it, and several enclosures fell to the floor. The first was a will, drawn in the same eccentric terms as the one which he had returned six months before, to serve as a testament in case of death and as a deed of gift in case of disappearance; but, in place of the name of Edward Hyde, the lawyer, with indescribable amazement, read the name of Gabriel John Utterson. He looked at Poole, and then back at the paper, and last of all at the dead malefactor stretched upon the carpet.
“你可以这么说！”普尔说。接下来他们转向商务桌。桌子上整齐排列的文件中，最上面有一个大信封，医生手里写着厄特森先生的名字。律师打开了它，几个盒子掉到了地板上。第一份是一份遗嘱，其用语与他六个月前归还的那份遗嘱一样古怪，在死亡的情况下作为遗嘱，在失踪的情况下作为赠与契约；但是，律师带着难以形容的惊讶，把爱德华·海德的名字写成了加布里埃尔·约翰·厄特森。他看看普尔，然后又看看报纸，最后看看躺在地毯上的死去的罪犯。

‘My head goes round,’ he said. ‘He has been all these days in possession; he had no cause to like me; he must have raged to see himself displaced; and he has not destroyed this document.’
“我的头晕了，”他说。 “这些天他一直在占有；他没有理由喜欢我；看到自己流离失所，他一定很愤怒。他没有销毁这份文件。

He caught up the next paper; it was a brief note in the doctor’s hand and dated at the top.
他拿起下一张报纸；这是医生手里的一张简短的便条，上面注明了日期。

‘O Poole!’ the lawyer cried, ‘he was alive and here this day. He cannot have been disposed of in so short a space, he must be still alive, he must have fled! And then, why fled? and how? and in that case, can we venture to declare this suicide? Oh, we must be careful. I foresee that we may yet involve your master in some dire catastrophe.’
“噢，普尔！”律师喊道，“他今天还活着，还在这里。”他不可能在这么短的时间里被处理掉，他一定还活着，一定是逃走了！然后，为什么要逃跑呢？如何？既然如此，我们可以大胆地宣布这是自杀吗？哦，我们必须小心。我预见我们可能会让你的主人陷入一些可怕的灾难。

‘Why don’t you read it, sir?’ asked Poole.
“你为什么不读一下呢，先生？”普尔问道。

‘Because I fear,’ replied the lawyer solemnly. ‘ God grant I have no cause for it!’ And with that he brought the paper to his eyes and read as follows:
“因为我害怕，”律师严肃地回答。 “上帝保佑我没有理由这么做！”说完，他把纸拿到眼前，读到了如下内容：

‘MY DEAR UTTERSON, — When this shall fall into your hands, I shall have disappeared, under what circumstances I have not the penetration to foresee, but my instinct and all the circumstances of my nameless situation tell me that the end is sure and must be early. Go then, and first read the narrative which Lanyon warned me he was to place in your hands; and if you care to hear more, turn to the confession of
“我亲爱的厄特森，——当这一切落入你手中时，我就会消失，在什么情况下我无法预见，但我的直觉和我无名处境的所有情况告诉我，结局是肯定的，并且必须发生。”要早点。那么去吧，首先阅读兰宁警告我的叙述，他将把它交给你；如果你想听更多，请转向

Your unworthy and unhappy friend,
你那不值得、不快乐的朋友，

HENRY JEKYLL.’
亨利·杰基尔。”

‘There was a third enclosure?’ asked Utterson.
“还有第三个围栏？”厄特森问道。

‘Here, sir,’ said Poole, and gave into his hands a considerable packet sealed in several places.
“给你，先生。”普尔说着，将一大包多处密封的东西递到他手中。

The lawyer put it in his pocket. ‘I would say nothing of this paper. If your master has fled or is dead, we may at least save his credit. It is now ten; I must go home and read these documents in quiet; but I shall be back before midnight, when we shall send for the police.’
律师把它放进了口袋里。 “我不会谈论这篇论文。如果你的主人逃跑了或者死了，我们至少可以挽回他的信用。现在已经十点了；我必须回家安静地阅读这些文件；但我会在午夜之前回来，届时我们会派人去叫警察。”

They went out, locking the door of the theatre behind them; and Utterson, once more leaving the servants gathered about the fire in the hall, trudged back to his office to read the two narratives in which this mystery was now to be explained.
他们出去了，锁上了剧院的门。厄特森再次让仆人们聚集在大厅的火旁，拖着沉重的脚步回到他的办公室，阅读现在要解释这个谜团的两篇叙述。

DR. LANYON’S NARRATIVE
博士。兰永的叙述

ON the ninth of January, now four days ago, I received by the evening delivery a registered envelope, addressed in the hand of my colleague and old school-companion, Henry Jekyll. I was a good deal surprised by this; for we were by no means in the habit of correspondence; I had seen the man, dined with him, indeed, the night before; and I could imagine nothing in our intercourse that should justify formality of registration. The contents increased my wonder; for this is how the letter ran:
一月九日，也就是四天前，我在晚上收到了一个挂号信封，地址写在我的同事兼老同学亨利·杰基尔的手里。我对此感到非常惊讶。因为我们根本没有通信的习惯。我确实在前一天晚上见过这个人，还和他一起吃过饭。我无法想象在我们的交往中没有什么可以证明登记的正式性是合理的。这些内容增加了我的好奇心；这封信是这样写的：

‘10th December, 18 —
‘2018 年 12 月 10 日——

‘DEAR LANYON, You are one of my oldest friends; and although we may have differed at times on scientific questions, I cannot remember, at least on my side, any break in our affection. There was never a day when, if you had said to me, ‘Jekyll, my life, my honour, my reason, depend upon you,’ I would not have sacrificed my left hand to help you. Lanyon, my life, my honour my reason, are all at your mercy;
“亲爱的兰扬，你是我最老的朋友之一；尽管我们有时在科学问题上可能存在分歧，但我不记得，至少在我这边，我们的感情有任何破裂。从来没有哪一天，如果你对我说：“杰基尔，我的生命、我的荣誉、我的理智都取决于你。”我​​不会牺牲我的左手来帮助你。兰宁，我的生命，我的荣誉，我的理智，全都听从你的摆布；

if you fail me to-night I am lost. You might suppose, after this preface, that I am going to ask you for something dishonourable to grant. Judge for yourself.
如果今晚你让我失望了，我就迷路了。在写完这篇序言之后，你可能会认为我会向你提出一些不光彩的请求。你自己判断吧。

‘I want you to postpone all other engagements for to-night — ay, even if you were summoned to the bedside of an emperor; to take a cab, unless your carriage should be actually at the door; and with this letter in your hand for consultation, to drive straight to my house. Poole, my butler, has his orders; you will find, him waiting your arrival with a locksmith. The door of my cabinet is then to be forced: and you are to go in alone; to open the glazed press (letter E) on the left hand, breaking the lock if it be shut; and to draw out, with all its contents as they stand, the fourth drawer from the top or (which is the same thing) the third from the bottom. In my extreme distress of wind, I have a morbid fear of misdirecting you; but even if I am in error, you may know the right drawer by its contents: some powders, a phial and a paper book. This drawer I beg of you to carry back with you to Cavendish Square exactly as it stands.
“我希望你推迟今晚所有其他的约会——哎，即使你被召唤到皇帝的床边；乘坐出租车，除非您的马车实际上就在门口；并拿着这封咨询信，直接开车到我家。我的管家普尔有他的命令；你会发现，他带着锁匠等待着你的到来。然后我的柜子的门就要被撬开，而你只能独自进去；打开左手的玻璃压机（字母E），如果关闭则打破锁；并从顶部数第四个抽屉或底部数第三个抽屉（这是同一件事）中取出所有内容。在我极度痛苦的风中，我有一种病态的恐惧，害怕误导你；但即使我错了，你也可以通过里面的东西知道正确的抽屉：一些粉末、一个小瓶和一本纸质书。我恳求你把这个抽屉原封不动地带回卡文迪什广场。

‘That is the first part of the service: now for the second. You should be back, if you set out at once on the receipt of this, long before midnight; but I will leave you that amount of margin, not only in the fear of one of those obstacles that can neither be prevented nor fore-
“这是服务的第一部分：现在是第二部分。如果你收到此信后立即出发，早在午夜之前，你就应该回来；但我会给你留那么多的余地，不仅仅是因为担心那些既无法预防也无法预见的障碍之一——

seen, but because an hour when your servants are in bed is to be preferred for what will then remain to do. At midnight, then, I have to ask you to be alone in your consulting-room, to admit with your own hand into the house a man who will present himself in my name, and to place in his hands the drawer that you will have brought with you from my cabinet. Then you will have played your part and earned my gratitude completely. Five minutes afterwards, if you insist upon an explanation, you will have understood that these arrangements are of capital importance; and that by the neglect of one of them, fantastic as they must appear, you might have charged your conscience with my death or the shipwreck of my reason.
看到了，但因为你的仆人在床上的一个小时是最好的，然后剩下的事情就完成了。那么，午夜时分，我必须请你独自待在你的诊室里，亲手接纳一个以我的名义出现的人进入屋内，并将你将拥有的抽屉放在他手中。从我的柜子里带来的。那么你就已经发挥了你的作用并完全赢得了我的感激。五分钟后，如果你坚持要解释，你就会明白这些安排是至关重要的；尽管它们看起来一定很荒唐，但如果忽视了其中的一个，你可能会因为我的死亡或我的理智的崩溃而责怪你的良心。

‘Confident as I am that you will not trifle with this appeal, my heart sinks and my hand trembles at the bare thought of such a possibility. Think of me at this hour, in a strange place, labouring under a blackness of distress that no fancy can exaggerate, and yet well aware that, if you will but punctually serve me, my troubles will roll away like a story that is told. Serve me, my dear Lanyon, and save
“尽管我确信你不会轻视这个请求，但一想到这种可能性，我的心就沉下去，我的手就颤抖。想想此时此刻的我，在一个陌生的地方，在任何幻想都无法夸大的黑暗痛苦中劳作，但我很清楚，如果你愿意准时为我服务，我的烦恼就会像故事一样消失。为我服务，我亲爱的兰宁，并拯救

Your friend, H. J.’
你的朋友，H.J.’

‘P. S. I had already sealed this up when a fresh terror struck upon my soul. It is possible that the postoffice may fail me, and this letter
'P。当新的恐惧袭上我的灵魂时，我已经把这件事封存起来了。邮局可能会让我失望，而这封信

not come into your hands until to-morrow morning. In that case, dear Lanyon, do my errand when it shall be most convenient for you in the course of the day; and once more expect my messenger at midnight. It may then already be too late; and if that night passes without event, you will know that you have seen the last of Henry Jekyll.’
直到明天早上才到你手中。那样的话，亲爱的兰宁，请在一天中对你来说最方便的时候去做我的事。再次期待我的使者在午夜到来。那时可能已经太晚了；如果那天晚上没有发生任何事情，你就会知道你已经看到了亨利·杰基尔的最后一面。

Upon the reading of this letter, I made sure my colleague was insane; but till that was proved beyond the possibility of doubt, I felt bound to do as he requested. The less I understood of this farrago, the less I was in a position to judge of its importance; and an appeal so worded could not be set aside without a grave responsibility. I rose accordingly from table, got into a hansom, and drove straight to Jekyll’s house. The butler was awaiting my arrival; he had received by the same post as mine a registered letter of instruction, and had sent at once for a locksmith and a carpenter. The tradesmen came while we were yet speaking; and we moved in a body to old Dr. Denman’s surgical theatre, from which (as you are doubtless aware) Jekyll’s private cabinet is most conveniently entered. The door was very strong, the lock excellent; the carpenter avowed he would have great trouble and have to do much damage, if force were to be used; and the locksmith was near despair. But this last was a handy fellow,
读完这封信后，我确信我的同事疯了；但在这一点得到毫无疑问的证明之前，我觉得有必要按照他的要求去做。我对这件大事了解得越少，就越无法判断它的重要性。如果没有重大责任，就不能搁置如此措辞的上诉。我相应地从餐桌上站起来，坐进一辆双轮马车，直奔杰基尔的家。管家正在等待我的到来。他通过与我相同的邮局收到了一封挂号指示信，并立即派人去请一名锁匠和一名木匠。我们还没说话，商人就来了。我们把尸体搬到了老丹曼医生的手术室，从这里（你无疑知道）杰基尔的私人橱柜是最方便进入的。门很坚固，锁也很好。木匠承认，如果使用武力，他会遇到很大的麻烦，并且会造成很大的损害。锁匠几乎绝望了。但这最后一个是个方便的家伙，

and after two hours’ work, the door stood open. The press marked E was unlocked; and I took out the drawer, had it filled up with straw and tied in a sheet, and returned with it to Cavendish Square.
经过两个小时的工作，门打开了。标记为E的按键已解锁；我拿出抽屉，里面装满了稻草，并用床单捆好，然后带着它回到了卡文迪什广场。

Here I proceeded to examine its contents. The powders were neatly enough made up, but not with the nicety of the dispensing chemist; so that it was plain they were of Jekyll’s private manufacture; and when I opened one of the wrappers I found what seemed to me a simple crystalline salt of a white colour. The phial, to which I next turned my attention, might have been about half-full of a blood-red liquor, which was highly pungent to the sense of smell and seemed to me to contain phosphorus and some volatile ether. At the other ingredients I could make no guess. The book was an ordinary version-book and contained little but a series of dates. These covered a period of many years, but I observed that the entries ceased nearly a year ago and quite abruptly. Here and there a brief remark was appended to a date, usually no more than a single word: ‘double’ occurring perhaps six times in a total of several hundred entries; and once very early in the list and followed by several marks of exclamation, ‘total failure!!!’ All this, though it whetted my curiosity, told me little that was definite. Here were a phial of some tincture, a paper of some salt, and the record of a series of experi-
在这里我继续检查其内容。粉末配制得很整齐，但配药化学家的技术不够细致。很明显，它们是杰基尔私人制造的；当我打开其中一个包装纸时，我发现了一种在我看来是简单的白色结晶盐的东西。我接下来把注意力转向那个小瓶，里面可能装着大约半满的血红色液体，这种液体对嗅觉来说非常刺鼻，在我看来似乎含有磷和一些挥发性乙醚。对于其他成分我无法猜测。这本书是一本普通的版本书，除了一系列日期之外几乎没有什么内容。这些内容涵盖了很多年的时间，但我观察到这些条目在大约一年前就突然停止了。日期后面时不时会附上简短的注释，通常不超过一个单词：“double”在总共数百个条目中可能出现了六次；“double”可能出现了六次。有一次出现在列表的最前面，后面跟着几个感叹号，“彻底失败了！！！”所有这一切，虽然激发了我的好奇心，但并没有告诉我什么是明确的。这里有一小瓶酊剂、一张盐纸，以及一系列实验的记录。

ments that had led (like too many of Jekyll’s investigations) to no end of practical usefulness. How could the presence of these articles in my house affect either the honour, the sanity, or the life of my flighty colleague? If his messenger could go to one place, why could he not go to another? And even granting some impediment, why was this gentleman to be received by me in secret? The more I reflected the more convinced I grew that I was dealing with a case of cerebral disease: and though I dismissed my servants to bed, I loaded an old revolver, that I might be found in some posture of self-defence.
这些评论（就像杰基尔的许多调查一样）没有实际用途。这些物品出现在我家里怎么会影响我那位轻浮同事的荣誉、理智或生活呢？如果他的使者可以去一个地方，为什么他不能去另一个地方呢？而且就算有一点阻碍，为何这位先生还要被我暗中接见呢？我思考得越多，就越确信自己正在处理一例脑部疾病：虽然我让仆人上床睡觉，但我还是装上了一把旧左轮手枪，以免被发现时我处于某种自卫姿势。

Twelve o’clock had scarce rung out over London, ere the knocker sounded very gently on the door. I went myself at the summons, and found a small man crouching against the pillars of the portico.
伦敦上空刚刚敲响十二点钟，门环就轻轻地敲门了。我亲自去了，发现一个小个子男人蹲在门廊的柱子上。

‘Are you come from Dr. Jekyll?’ I asked.
“你是杰基尔博士来的吗？”我问。

He told me ‘yes’ by a constrained gesture; and when I had bidden him enter, he did not obey me without a searching backward glance into the darkness of the square. There was a policeman not far off, advancing with his bull’s eye open; and at the sight, I thought my visitor started and made greater haste.
他用一种克制的手势对我说“是”。当我请他进去时，他并没有服从我，而是回头看了一眼广场的黑暗。不远处有一名警察，睁着靶心向前走去。看到这一幕，我以为我的客人吓了一跳，于是更加匆忙了。

These particulars struck me, I confess, disagreeably; and as I followed him into the bright light of the consulting-room, I kept my hand ready on my weapon. Here, at last, I had a
我承认，这些细节让我很不舒服。当我跟着他走进灯光明亮的诊室时，我把手放在武器上。在这里，我终于拥有了

chance of clearly seeing him. I had never set eyes on him before, so much was certain. He was small, as I have said; I was struck besides with the shocking expression of his face, with his remarkable combination of great muscular activity and great apparent debility of constitution, and — last but not least — with the odd, subjective disturbance caused by his neighbourhood. This bore some resemblance to incipient rigour, and was accompanied by a marked sinking of the pulse. At the time, I set it down to some idiosyncratic, personal distaste, and merely wondered at the acuteness of the symptoms; but I have since had reason to believe the cause to lie much deeper in the nature of man, and to turn on some nobler hinge than the principle of hatred.
有机会清楚地看到他。我以前从未见过他，所以很多事情都是确定的。正如我所说，他很小。除此之外，我还对他脸上令人震惊的表情感到震惊，他的肌肉活动旺盛，体质明显虚弱，而且——最后但并非最不重要的——他的邻居造成的奇怪的、主观的干扰。这与刚开始的严酷有一些相似之处，并且伴随着脉搏的明显下降。当时，我将其归结为某种特殊的、个人的厌恶，只是想知道症状的严重程度；但从那时起，我就有理由相信，其根源在于人性的更深层，并依赖于比仇恨原则更高尚的铰链。

This person (who had thus, from the first moment of his entrance, struck in me what I can only describe as a disgustful curiosity) was dressed in a fashion that would have made an ordinary person laughable; his clothes, that is to say, although they were of rich and sober fabric, were enormously too large for him in every measurement — the trousers hanging on his legs and rolled up to keep them from the ground, the waist of the coat below his haunches, and the collar sprawling wide upon his shoulders. Strange to relate, this ludicrous accoutrement was far from moving me to laughter. Rather, as there was something abnormal and misbe-
这个人（因此，从他进来的第一刻起，我就对他产生了一种我只能形容为令人厌恶的好奇心）的穿着方式会让一个普通人感到可笑；他的穿着很时尚，而且很时尚。也就是说，尽管他的衣服是用华丽而朴素的面料制成的，但在每一个尺寸上对他来说都太大了——裤子挂在他的腿上，卷起来以防止它们离开地面，外套的腰部低于他的腿。驼背，衣领宽大地披在肩上。说来奇怪，这种可笑的装备根本没有让我发笑。相反，因为有一些不正常和不正常的事情——

gotten in the very essence of the creature that now faced me — something seizing, surprising, and revolting — this fresh disparity seemed but to fit in with and to reinforce it; so that to my interest in the man’s nature and character, there was added a curiosity as to his origin, his life, his fortune and status in the world.
这种新的差异似乎融入了我现在所面对的生物的本质——某种抓住、令人惊讶和令人厌恶的东西——这种新的差异似乎只是适应并强化了它；因此，除了对这个人的本性和性格感兴趣之外，我还对他的出身、他的生活、他的财富和在世界上的地位产生了好奇。

These observations, though they have taken so great a space to be set down in, were yet the work of a few seconds. My visitor was, indeed, on fire with sombre excitement.
这些观察结果虽然占据了很大的篇幅，但也只是几秒钟的工作。我的来访者确实因忧郁的兴奋而激动不已。

‘Have you got it?’ he cried. ‘Have you got it?’ And so lively was his impatience that he even laid his hand upon my arm and sought to shake me.
“你拿到了吗？”他喊道。 “你拿到了吗？”他非常不耐烦，甚至把手放在我的手臂上，试图摇晃我。

I put him back, conscious at his touch of a certain icy pang along my blood. ‘Come, sir,’ said I. ‘You forget that I have not yet the pleasure of your acquaintance. Be seated, if you please.’ And I showed him an example, and sat down myself in my customary seat and with as fair an imitation of my ordinary manner to a patient, as the lateness of the hour, the nature of my pre-occupations, and the horror I had of my visitor, would suffer me to muster.
我把他放了回去，意识到他触碰了我血液中的某种冰冷的疼痛。 “来吧，先生，”我说，“你忘记了，我还没有愉快地认识你。”如果你愿意的话，请坐下。”我向他展示了一个例子，然后自己坐在了我惯常的座位上，就像我对病人的平常态度一样，因为时间已经很晚了，我的预先准备的性质一样。我的职业，以及我对来访者的恐惧，都会让我无法集中精力。

‘I beg your pardon, Dr. Lanyon,’ he replied civilly enough. ‘What you say is very well founded; and my impatience has shown its heels to my politeness. I come here at the instance of your colleague, Dr. Henry Jekyll, on a piece of business of some moment; and I under-
“请您原谅，兰宁医生，”他礼貌地回答道。 ‘你说的很有道理；我的不耐烦已经暴露了我的礼貌。我是应你的同事亨利·杰基尔博士的要求来到这里的，有事要办。我根据-

stood...’ He paused and put his hand to his throat, and I could see, in spite of his collected manner, that he was wrestling against the approaches of the hysteria — ‘I understood, a drawer..’
站起来……”他停了下来，把手放在喉咙上，尽管他态度镇定，我还是能看出他正在与歇斯底里的逼近作斗争——“我明白了，一个抽屉……”

But here I took pity on my visitor’s suspense, and some perhaps on my own growing curiosity.
但在这里，我对来访者的悬念表示同情，也许还有我自己日益增长的好奇心。

‘There it is, sir,’ said I, pointing to the drawer, where it lay on the floor behind a table and still covered with the sheet.
“就在这儿，先生。”我指着抽屉说，抽屉放在桌子后面的地板上，上面还盖着床单。

He sprang to it, and then paused, and laid his hand upon his heart: I could hear his teeth grate with the convulsive action of his jaws; and his face was so ghastly to see that I grew alarmed both for his life and reason.
他跳向它，然后停了下来，把手放在心口上：我能听到他的牙齿随着他下巴的痉挛动作而磨碎；我听到了他的声音。看到他的脸色如此可怕，我对他的生命和理智感到震惊。

‘Compose yourself,’ said I.
“冷静一下，”我说。

He turned a dreadful smile to me, and as if with the decision of despair, plucked away the sheet. At sight of the contents, he uttered one loud sob of such immense relief that I sat petrified. And the next moment, in a voice that was already fairly well under control, ‘Have you a graduated glass?’ he asked.
他对我露出一个可怕的微笑，然后仿佛绝望地做出了决定，掀开了床单。看到里面的内容，他大声抽泣起来，我如释重负，我坐在那儿吓呆了。下一刻，他用已经相当控制的声音问道：“你有刻度镜吗？”

I rose from my place with something of an effort and gave him what he asked.
我费了好大的劲才从座位上站起来，满足了他的要求。

He thanked me with a smiling nod, measured out a few minims of the red tincture and added one of the powders. The mixture, which was at first of a reddish hue, began, in proportion as the crystals melted, to brighten in colour, to effervesce audibly, and to throw off small
他微笑着点头感谢我，量出了几微量的红色酊剂，并添加了一种粉末。混合物最初呈淡红色，随着晶体的熔化，颜色开始变亮，发出明显的气泡声，并散发出小颗粒。

fumes of vapour. Suddenly and at the same moment, the ebullition ceased and the compound changed to a dark purple, which faded again more slowly to a watery green. My visitor, who had watched these metamorphoses with a keen eye, smiled, set down the glass upon the table, and then turned and looked upon me with an air of scrutiny.
蒸气烟雾。突然，在同一时刻，沸腾停止了，化合物变成了深紫色，然后又慢慢地褪成了水绿色。我的来访者敏锐地观察到了这些变化，他微笑着，把玻璃杯放在桌子上，然后转过身来，用审视的目光看着我。

‘And now,’ said he, ‘to settle what remains. Will you be wise? will you be guided? will you suffer me to take this glass in my hand and to go forth from your house without further parley? or has the greed of curiosity too much command of you? Think before you answer, for it shall be done as you decide. As you decide, you shall be left as you were before, and neither richer nor wiser, unless the sense of service rendered to a man in mortal distress may be counted as a kind of riches of the soul. Or, if you shall so prefer to choose, a new province of knowledge and new avenues to fame and power shall be laid open to you, here, in this room, upon the instant; and your sight shall be blasted by a prodigy to stagger the unbelief of Satan.’
“现在，”他说，“解决剩下的问题。”你会变得聪明吗？你会被引导吗？你能允许我拿着这杯酒，不做进一步的谈判就离开你的房子吗？还是贪婪的好奇心过多地控制了你？回答之前请三思，因为事情将按照您的决定进行。当你决定时，你将像以前一样，既不会变得更富有，也不会变得更聪明，除非为一个处于致命困境的人提供的服务感可以算作一种灵魂的财富。或者，如果你愿意选择，一个新的知识领域和通向名誉和权力的新途径将立即向你敞开，就在这里，在这个房间里；你的视力将被一个神童击碎，以震慑撒旦的不信。

‘Sir,’ said I, affecting a coolness that I was far from truly possessing,’ you speak enigmas, and you will perhaps not wonder that I hear you with no very strong impression of belief. But I have gone too far in the way of inexplicable services to pause before I see the end.’
“先生，”我装出一副远非真正拥有的冷静说道，“你说的是谜语，你也许不会奇怪我听到你的话时并没有很强烈的信念印象。但我在莫名其妙的服务方面已经走得太远了，在看到结局之前不能停下来。

‘It is well,’ replied my visitor. ‘Lanyon,
“很好，”我的访客回答道。 ‘兰宁，

you remember your vows: what follows is under the seal of our profession. And now, you who have so long been bound to the most narrow and material views, you who have denied the virtue of transcendental medicine, you who have derided your superiors — behold!’
你记住你的誓言：接下来的内容是我们职业的印记。现在，你们这些长期受最狭隘和物质观点束缚的人，你们否认超验医学的美德，你们嘲笑你们的上级——看哪！

He put the glass to his lips and drank at one gulp. A cry followed; he reeled, staggered, clutched at the table and held on, staring with injected eyes, gasping with open mouth; and as I looked there came, I thought, a change — he seemed to swell — his face became suddenly black and the features seemed to melt and alter — and the next moment, I had sprung to my feet and leaped back against the wall, my arm raised to shield me from that prodigy, my mind submerged in terror.
他把酒杯放到唇边，一口气喝了下去。随之而来的是一声哭喊。他摇摇晃晃，踉踉跄跄地抓着桌子不放，眼睛瞪得大大的，张着嘴喘着粗气。当我看着那里时，我想，发生了变化——他似乎肿了——他的脸突然变黑，五官似乎融化并改变了——下一刻，我猛地站起来，跳回墙上，我举起手臂来保护我免受那个神童的伤害，我的脑海里充满了恐惧。

‘O God!’ I screamed, and ‘O God!’ again and again; for there before my eyes — pale and shaken, and half-fainting, and groping before him with his hands, like a man restored from death — there stood Henry Jekyll!
“上帝啊！”我尖叫着，“上帝啊！”一次又一次；因为就在我眼前——亨利·杰基尔站着——脸色苍白，浑身颤抖，半昏过去，双手在他面前摸索，就像死而复生的人一样！

What he told me in the next hour, I cannot bring my mind to set on paper. I saw what I saw, I heard what I heard, and my soul sickened at it; and yet now when that sight has faded from my eyes, I ask myself if I believe it, and I cannot answer. My life is shaken to its roots; sleep has left me; the deadliest terror sits by me at all hours of the day and night; I feel that my days are numbered, and that I
他在接下来的一个小时里告诉我的内容，我无法下定决心写在纸上。我看到了我所看到的，我听到了我所听到的，我的灵魂为此感到恶心；然而现在，当那景象从我眼前消失时，我问自己是否相信它，但我无法回答。我的生命彻底动摇了；睡眠已离我而去；最致命的恐惧不分昼夜地伴随着我；我觉得我的日子屈指可数了

must die; and yet I shall die incredulous. As for the moral turpitude that man unveiled to me, even with tears of penitence, I cannot, even in memory, dwell on it without a start of horror. I will say but one thing, Utterson, and that (if you can bring your mind to credit it) will be more than enough. The creature who crept into my house that night was, on Jekyll’s own confession, known by the name of Hyde and hunted for in every corner of the land as the murderer of Carew.
一定死;但我仍将难以置信地死去。至于人们向我揭露的道德败坏，即使带着忏悔的泪水，我也无法在记忆中不感到恐惧。我只想说一件事，厄特森，（如果你能相信这一点的话）就足够了。据杰基尔自己的供述，那天晚上潜入我家的生物名叫海德，并作为谋杀卡鲁的凶手在这片土地的每个角落被追捕。

HASTIE LANYON.
哈斯蒂·兰永。

HENRY JEKYLL’S FULL STATEMENT OF THE CASE
亨利·杰基尔的完整案件陈述

I WAS born in the year 18 — to a large fortune, endowed besides with excellent parts, inclined by nature to industry, fond of the respect of the wise and good among my fellow-men, and thus, as might have been supposed, with every guarantee of an honourable and distinguished future. And indeed the worst of my faults was a certain impatient gaiety of disposition, such as has made the happiness of many, but such as I found it hard to reconcile with my imperious desire to carry my head high, and wear a more than commonly grave countenance before the public. Hence it came about that I concealed my pleasures; and that when I reached years of reflection, and began to look round me and take stock of my progress and position in the world, I stood already committed to a profound duplicity of life. Many a man would have even blazoned such irregularities as I was guilty of; but from the high views that I had set before me, I regarded and hid them with an almost morbid sense of shame. It was thus rather the exacting
我出生于18年——拥有一大笔财富，除了拥有优秀的品质之外，生性倾向于勤奋，喜欢在同胞中尊重智者和善良的人，因此，正如人们可能想象的那样，光荣而卓越的未来的一切保证。事实上，我最严重的缺点是性情中某种不耐烦的快乐，这种性格给许多人带来了幸福，但我发现很难与我昂首挺胸、穿着比平常庄重的衣服的专横欲望相调和。出现在公众面前。因此，我隐藏了我的快乐；当我经过多年的反思，开始环顾四周，评估自己的进步和在世界上的地位时，我已经陷入了深刻的口是心非的生活中。许多人甚至会大肆宣扬我所犯下的违规行为。但从我摆在面前的崇高观点来看，我以一种近乎病态的羞耻感看待并隐藏它们。因此，这是相当严格的

nature of my aspirations than any particular degradation in my faults, that made me what I was and, with even a deeper trench than in the majority of men, severed in me those provinces of good and ill which divide and compound man’s dual nature. In this case, I was driven to reflect deeply and inveterately on that hard law of life, which lies at the root of religion and is one of the most plentiful springs of distress. Though so profound a double-dealer, I was in no sense a hypocrite; both sides of me were in dead earnest; I was no more myself when I laid aside restraint and plunged in shame, than when I laboured, in the eye of day, at the furtherance of knowledge or the relief of sorrow and suffering. And it chanced that the direction of my scientific studies, which led wholly toward the mystic and the transcendental, re-acted and shed a strong light on this consciousness of the perennial war among my members. With every day, and from both sides of my intelligence, the moral and the intellectual, I thus drew steadily nearer to that truth, by whose partial discovery I have been doomed to such a dreadful shipwreck: that man is not truly one, but truly two. I say two, because the state of my own knowledge does not pass beyond that point. Others will follow, others will outstrip me on the same lines; and I hazard the guess that man will be ultimately known for a mere polity of multifarious, incongruous, and independent denizens. I, for my
我的愿望的本质，而不是我的过失的任何特殊退化，使我成为现在的我，而且，比大多数人更深的沟渠，在我身上割断了区分和复合人类双重本性的善与恶的领域。在这种情况下，我被迫深入思考那条严格的生活法则，它是宗教的根源，也是痛苦最丰富的根源之一。尽管我是一个两面派，但我绝不是一个伪君子。我的双方都非常认真；当我抛开束缚、陷入羞耻时，我不再是我自己，就像当我在白天的眼中努力促进知识或减轻悲伤和痛苦时一样。碰巧的是，我的科学研究的方向完全走向了神秘和超验，这对我的成员之间的长期战争意识产生了反作用，并强烈地揭示了这一点。每一天，从我的智力、道德和智力的两方面，我就这样稳步接近这个真理，由于这个真理的部分发现，我注定要遭遇如此可怕的沉船：人不是真正的一个，而是真正的一个人。二。我说两个，是因为我自己的知识水平还没有超出这一点。在同样的道路上，其他人会跟随，其他人会超越我；我大胆猜测，人类最终将仅以五花八门、不协调且独立的居民组成的政体而闻名。我，为了我的

part, from the nature of my life, advanced infallibly in one direction and in one direction only. It was on the moral side, and in my own person, that I learned to recognise the thorough and primitive duality of man; I saw that, of the two natures that contended in the field of my consciousness, even if I could rightly be said to be either, it was only because I was radically both; and from an early date, even before the course of my scientific discoveries had begun to suggest the most naked possibility of such a miracle, I had learned to dwell with pleasure, as a beloved day-dream, on the thought of the separation of these elements. If each, I told myself, could but be housed in separate identities, life would be relieved of all that was unbearable; the unjust delivered from the aspirations might go his way, and remorse of his more upright twin; and the just could walk steadfastly and securely on his upward path, doing the good things in which he found his pleasure, and no longer exposed to disgrace and penitence by the hands of this extraneous evil. It was the curse of mankind that these incongruous fagots were thus bound together that in the agonised womb of consciousness, these polar twins should be continuously struggling. How, then, were they dissociated?
出于我生命的本质，一部分是朝着一个方向并且只朝着一个方向无误地前进。正是在道德方面，就我个人而言，我学会了认识到人的彻底和原始的二元性。我看到，在我的意识领域中相互竞争的两种本性中，即使我可以正确地说我是其中一种，那也只是因为我根本上是两者兼而有之。从很早开始，甚至在我的科学发现过程开始暗示这种奇迹的最赤裸裸的可能性之前，我就学会了快乐地思考这些分离的想法，就像一个心爱的白日梦一样。元素。我告诉自己，如果每个人都能以不同的身份生活，生活就会摆脱一切难以忍受的痛苦；那些从愿望中解脱出来的不公正的人可能会走他的路，而他更正直的双胞胎则可能会悔恨不已。正义者可以坚定而安全地走在他的上升道路上，做他喜欢的善事，而不再遭受这种外来邪恶之手的耻辱和忏悔。人类的诅咒，让这些不相称的同性恋者被绑在一起，在痛苦的意识子宫里，这对极地双胞胎必须不断地挣扎。那么，他们是如何分裂的呢？

I was so far in my reflections when, as I have said, a side-light began to shine upon the subject from the laboratory table. I began to perceive
正如我已经说过的，当我正在沉思时，实验室的桌子上开始有侧光照射到这个主题上。我开始察觉

more deeply than it has ever yet been stated, the trembling immateriality, the mist-like transience of this seemingly so solid body in which we walk attired. Certain agents I found to have the power to shake and to pluck back that fleshly vestment, even as a wind might toss the curtains of a pavilion. For two good reasons, I will not enter deeply into this scientific branch of my confession. First, because I have been made to learn that the doom and burthen of our life is bound for ever on man’s shoulders, and when the attempt is made to cast it off, it but returns upon us with more unfamiliar and more awful pressure. Second, because, as my narrative will make, alas! too evident, my discoveries were incomplete. Enough, then, that I not only recognised my natural body for the mere aura and effulgence of certain of the powers that made up my spirit, but managed to compound a drug by which these powers should be dethroned from their supremacy, and a second form and countenance substituted, none the less natural to me because they were the expression, and bore the stamp, of lower elements in my soul.
比以往任何时候都更深刻的是，我们穿着的这个看似坚固的身体，颤抖着非物质性，薄雾般的短暂。我发现某些特工有能力摇动并拉回那件血肉外衣，就像风可以吹动亭子的窗帘一样。出于两个充分的理由，我不会深入探讨我的忏悔的科学分支。首先，因为我被迫了解到，我们生命的厄运和重担永远压在人类的肩上，当我们试图摆脱它时，它却以更陌生、更可怕的压力回到我们身上。其次，因为，正如我的叙述所表明的那样，唉！太明显了，我的发现是不完整的。那么，我不仅认识到我的自然身体只是构成我精神的某些力量的光环和光辉，而且还成功地配制了一种药物，通过这种药物可以将这些力量从其至高无上的地位上废黜，以及第二种形式面容被取代，对我来说仍然很自然，因为它们是我灵魂中较低元素的表达和印记。

I hesitated long before I put this theory to the test of practice. I knew well that I risked death; for any drug that so potently controlled and shook the very fortress of identity, might by the least scruple of an overdose or at the least inopportunity in the moment of exhibition, utterly blot out that immaterial tabernacle which I
在将这个理论付诸实践之前我犹豫了很久。我很清楚我冒着死亡的危险；因为任何药物如此有效地控制和动摇了身份的堡垒，可能会因服用过量而毫无顾忌，或者在展示时至少不合适，完全抹掉我所认为的那个无形的圣殿。

looked to it to change. But the temptation of a discovery so singular and profound, at last overcame the suggestions of alarm. I had long since prepared my tincture; I purchased at once, from a firm of wholesale chemists, a large quantity of a particular salt which I knew, from my experiments, to be the last ingredient required; and late one accursed night, I compounded the elements, watched them boil and smoke together in the glass, and when the ebullition had subsided, with a strong glow of courage, drank off the potion.
期待它改变。但如此独特而深刻的发现所带来的诱惑最终战胜了恐慌。我早已准备好了酊剂；我立即从一家批发化学家公司购买了大量的特定盐，根据我的实验，我知道这是最后需要的成分；在一个该死的深夜，我将这些元素混合在一起，看着它们在玻璃杯中一起沸腾和冒烟，当沸腾平息后，我带着强烈的勇气喝下了魔药。

The most racking pangs succeeded: a grinding in the bones, deadly nausea, and a horror of the spirit that cannot be exceeded at the hour of birth or death. Then these agonies began swiftly to subside, and I came to myself as if out of a great sickness. There was something strange in my sensations, something indescribably new and, from its very novelty, incredibly sweet. I felt younger, lighter, happier in body; within I was conscious of a heady recklessness, a current of disordered sensual images running like a mill-race in my fancy, a solution of the bonds of obligation, an unknown but not an innocent freedom of the soul. I knew myself, at the first breath of this new life, to be more wicked, tenfold more wicked, sold a slave to my original evil; and the thought, in that moment, braced and delighted me like wine. I stretched out my hands, exulting in the freshness of these
最痛苦的痛苦成功了：骨头被磨碎，致命的恶心，以及在出生或死亡时无法超越的精神恐惧。然后这些痛苦开始迅速消退，我仿佛从一场大病中清醒过来。我的感觉有些奇怪，一种难以形容的新鲜感，而且由于它的新颖性，令人难以置信的甜蜜。我感觉自己的身体更年轻、更轻盈、更快乐；我的内心意识到一种令人陶醉的鲁莽，一股无序的感性意象在我的想象中像磨坊一样奔跑，一种义务束缚的解决，一种未知但不纯真的灵魂自由。我知道自己，在这个新生命的第一口呼吸时，变得更加邪恶，十倍地邪恶，把一个奴隶卖给了我最初的邪恶；在那一刻，这个想法像美酒一样让我振奋、愉悦。我伸出双手，为这些新鲜的东西而欣喜若狂

sensations; and in the act, I was suddenly aware that I had lost in stature.
感觉；在这个过程中，我突然意识到自己身材矮了。

There was no mirror, at that date, in my room; that which stands beside me as I write, was brought there later on and for the very purpose of these transformations. The night, however, was far gone into the morning — the morning, black as it was, was nearly ripe for the conception of the day — the inmates of my house were locked in the most rigorous hours of slumber; and I determined, flushed as I was with hope and triumph, to venture in my new shape as far as to my bedroom. I crossed the yard, wherein the constellations looked down upon me, I could have thought, with wonder, the first creature of that sort that their unsleeping vigilance had yet disclosed to them; I stole through the corridors, a stranger in my own house; and coming to my room, I saw for the first time the appearance of Edward Hyde.
那天，我的房间里没有镜子；当我写作时，站在我身边的东西是后来被带到那里的，正是为了这些转变的目的。然而，夜晚已经过去很久了——早晨，虽然是黑色的，但这一天的孕育已经快成熟了——我家的囚犯们都陷入了最严格的睡眠时间；我满脸通红，充满希望和胜利，决定以我的新造型冒险一直走到我的卧室。我穿过院子，那里的星座俯视着我，我本可以惊奇地想到，这是他们不眠不休的警惕性向他们透露的第一个此类生物；我偷偷地穿过走廊，就像在自己家里的陌生人一样；来到我的房间，我第一次看到了爱德华·海德的出现。

I must here speak by theory alone, saying not that which I know, but that which I suppose to be most probable. The evil side of my nature, to which I had now transferred the stamping efficacy, was less robust and less developed than the good which I had just deposed. Again, in the course of my life, which had been, after all, nine-tenths a life of effort, virtue, and control, it had been much less exercised and much less exhausted. And hence, as I think, it came about that Edward Hyde was so much smaller,
我在这里必须仅凭理论来说话，不是说我所知道的，而是说我认为最有可能的。我本性中邪恶的一面，现在已经被我转移了印记效力，但与我刚刚废黜的善良一面相比，它并不那么强大，也不那么发达。再说一次，在我的一生中，毕竟，我的一生有十分之九是努力、美德和控制的一生，我的锻炼和疲惫要少得多。因此，正如我所想，爱德华·海德变得小得多，

slighter, and younger than Henry Jekyll. Even as good shone upon the countenance of the one, evil was written broadly and plainly on the face of the other. Evil besides (which I must still believe to be the lethal side of man) had left on that body an imprint of deformity and decay. And yet when I looked upon that ugly idol in the glass, I was conscious of no repugnance, rather of a leap of welcome. This, too, was myself. It seemed natural and human. In my eyes it bore a livelier image of the spirit, it seemed more express and single, than the imperfect and divided countenance I had been hitherto accustomed to call mine. And in so far I was doubtless right. I have observed that when I wore the semblance of Edward Hyde, none could come near to me at first without a visible misgiving of the flesh. This, as I take it, was because all human beings, as we meet them, are commingled out of good and evil: and Edward Hyde, alone in the ranks of mankind, was pure evil.
比亨利·杰基尔更轻、更年轻。一个人的脸上闪烁着善意，而另一个人的脸上却写满了邪恶。此外，邪恶（我仍然相信这是人类致命的一面）在那个身体上留下了畸形和腐烂的印记。然而，当我看着镜子里那个丑陋的偶像时，我并没有感到厌恶，反而感到欣喜若狂。这也是我自己。这看起来很自然、很人性化。在我眼中，它比我迄今为止习惯称为我的不完美和分裂的面容更具有生气勃勃的精神形象，它似乎更明确和单一。到目前为止，我无疑是对的。我观察到，当我打扮成爱德华·海德的样子时，一开始接近我的人都会对肉体产生明显的疑虑。我认为，这是因为我们所遇到的所有人类都是善与恶的混合体：而爱德华·海德，在人类的行列中是独一无二的，他是纯粹的邪恶。

I lingered but a moment at the mirror: the second and conclusive experiment had yet to be attempted; it yet remained to be seen if I had lost my identity beyond redemption and must flee before daylight from a house that was no longer mine; and hurrying back to my cabinet, I once more prepared and drank the cup, once more suffered the pangs of dissolution, and came to myself once more with the character, the stature, and the face of Henry Jekyll.
我在镜子前逗留了一会儿：第二个决定性的实验尚未尝试；我是否已经失去了无法挽回的身份，必须在天亮之前逃离不再属于我的房子，还有待观察。我匆匆回到我的柜子，再次准备并喝下杯子，再次承受解体的痛苦，并再次认识到亨利·杰基尔的性格、身材和面孔。

That night I had come to the fatal cross-roads. Had I approached my discovery in a more noble spirit, had I risked the experiment while under the empire of generous or pious aspirations, all must have been otherwise, and from these agonies of death and birth, I had come forth an angel instead of a fiend. The drug had no discriminating action; it was neither diabolical nor divine; it but shook the doors of the prison-house of my disposition; and like the captives of Philippi, that which stood within ran forth. At that time my virtue slumbered; my evil, kept awake by ambition, was alert and swift to seize the occasion; and the thing that was projected was Edward Hyde. Hence, although I had now two characters as well as two appearances, one was wholly evil, and the other was still the old Henry Jekyll, that incongruous compound of whose reformation and improvement I had already learned to despair. The movement was thus wholly toward the worse.
那天晚上，我来到了致命的十字路口。如果我以一种更高尚的精神接近我的发现，如果我在慷慨或虔诚的愿望的帝国下冒险进行实验，一切都一定是另外的样子，从这些死亡和出生的痛苦中，我诞生了一个天使，而不是一个天使。恶魔。该药物没有歧视作用；它既不是恶魔，也不是神圣的；它只是动摇了我性格的监狱之门；就像腓立比的俘虏一样，站在里面的人都跑了出来。那时我的德性沉睡了；我的邪恶因野心而警醒，警惕而迅速地抓住了这个机会。被投射的东西是爱德华·海德。因此，虽然我现在有两个角色和两个外表，一个是完全邪恶的，另一个仍然是老亨利·杰基尔，我已经学会了对他的改革和改进感到绝望。因此，这场运动完全走向了更坏的方向。

Even at that time, I had not yet conquered my aversion to the dryness of a life of study. I would still be merrily disposed at times; and as my pleasures were (to say the least) undignified, and I was not only well known and highly considered, but growing toward the elderly man, this incoherency of my life was daily growing more unwelcome. It was on this side that my new power tempted me until I fell in slavery. I had but to drink the cup, to doff at once the body
即使在那时，我还没有克服对枯燥的学习生活的厌恶。有时我仍会心情愉快；由于我的快乐（至少可以说）有失尊严，而且我不仅广为人知，受到高度重视，而且越来越接近老人，我生活中的这种不连贯性每天都变得越来越不受欢迎。正是在这一边，我的新力量诱惑着我，直到我沦为奴隶。我只需喝下杯子，立刻脱去身体

of the noted professor, and to assume, like a thick cloak, that of Edward Hyde. I smiled at the notion; it seemed to me at the time to be humorous; and I made my preparations with the most studious care. I took and furnished that house in Soho, to which Hyde was tracked by the police; and engaged as housekeeper a creature whom I well knew to be silent and unscrupulous. On the other side, I announced to my servants that a Mr. Hyde (whom I described) was to have full liberty and power about my house in the square; and to parry mishaps, I even called and made myself a familiar object, in my second character. I next drew up that will to which you so much objected; so that if anything befell me in the person of Dr. Jekyll, I could enter on that of Edward Hyde without pecuniary loss. And thus fortified, as I supposed, on every side, I began to profit by the strange immunities of my position.
著名教授的身份，并像一件厚斗篷一样假设爱德华·海德的身份。我对这个想法笑了；当时我觉得这很幽默。我非常认真地做好了准备。我买下了苏荷区的那所房子并布置了家具，海德被警察追踪到了那里。并聘请了一位我深知沉默寡言、肆无忌惮的人担任管家。另一方面，我向我的仆人宣布，海德先生（我所描述的）将对我在广场上的房子拥有完全的自由和权力；为了避免发生意外，我什至在第二个角色中打电话并让自己成为一个熟悉的对象。接下来我起草了你极力反对的遗嘱；这样，如果杰基尔博士这个人发生了什么事，我就可以加入爱德华·海德的事，而不会造成金钱损失。因此，正如我所想的，我在各方面都得到了加强，我开始从我的职位的奇怪豁免权中受益。

Men have before hired bravos to transact their crimes, while their own person and reputation sat under shelter. I was the first that ever did so for his pleasures. I was the first that could thus plod in the public eye with a load of genial respectability, and in a moment, like a schoolboy, strip off these lendings and spring headlong into the sea of liberty. But for me, in my impenetrable mantle, the safety was complete. Think of it — I did not even exist! Let me but escape into my laboratory door, give me but a second or
此前，人们曾雇佣勇敢者来处理他们的罪行，而他们自己的人身和声誉却受到庇护。我是第一个为了他的快乐而这样做的人。我是第一个能够在公众眼中带着和蔼可亲、受人尊敬的人艰难前行的人，然后像一个小学生一样，立刻脱掉这些贷款，一头扎进自由的海洋。但对我来说，在我坚不可摧的斗篷下，安全是完全的。想想看——我根本就不存在！让我逃进我的实验室门，给我一秒钟或者

two to mix and swallow the draught that I had always standing ready; and whatever he had done, Edward Hyde would pass away like the stain of breath upon a mirror; and there in his stead, quietly at home, trimming the midnight lamp in his study, a man who could afford to laugh at suspicion, would be Henry Jekyll.
两个混合并吞下我一直准备好的草水；无论他做了什么，爱德华·海德都会像镜子上的呼吸痕迹一样消失。亨利·杰基尔将代替他，安静地待在家里，在书房里修剪午夜的灯，一个能够对怀疑一笑置之的人。

The pleasures which I made haste to seek in my disguise were, as I have said, undignified; I would scarce use a harder term. But in the hands of Edward Hyde, they soon began to turn toward the monstrous. When I would come back from these excursions, I was often plunged into a kind of wonder at my vicarious depravity. This familiar that I called out of my own soul, and sent forth alone to do his good pleasure, was a being inherently malign and villainous; his every act and thought centred on self; drinking pleasure with bestial avidity from any degree of torture to another; relentless like a man of stone. Henry Jekyll stood at times aghast before the acts of Edward Hyde; but the situation was apart from ordinary laws, and insidiously relaxed the grasp of conscience. It was Hyde, after all, and Hyde alone, that was guilty. Jekyll was no worse; he woke again to his good qualities seemingly unimpaired; he would even make haste, where it was possible, to undo the evil done by Hyde. And thus his conscience slumbered.
正如我所说，我在伪装中匆忙寻求的快乐是不体面的。我几乎不会使用更难的术语。但在爱德华·海德的手中，它们很快就开始转向怪物。当我从这些短途旅行回来时，我常常对自己的堕落感到惊讶。我从自己的灵魂中召唤出这个使魔，并独自派出去去做他的好事，它本质上是邪恶的。他的一切行为和思想都以自我为中心；从对他人的任何程度的折磨中怀着兽性般的贪婪畅饮快乐；像石头人一样无情。亨利·杰基尔有时对爱德华·海德的行为感到震惊。但这种情况却脱离了一般法律，并且不知不觉地放松了良心的把握。毕竟，有罪的是海德，而且只有海德一人。杰基尔并不比他更糟。他再次醒来，发现自己的优良品质似乎并未受到损害。只要有可能，他甚至会尽快消除海德所犯下的罪恶。他的良心就这样沉睡了。

Into the details of the infamy at which I thus
深入了解我所遭受的耻辱的细节

connived (for even now I can scarce grant that I committed it) I have no design of entering; I mean but to point out the warnings and the successive steps with which my chastisement approached. I met with one accident which, as it brought on no consequence, I shall no more than mention. An act of cruelty to a child aroused against me the anger of a passer-by, whom I recognised the other day in the person of your kinsman; the doctor and the child’s family joined him; there were moments when I feared for my life; and at last, in order to pacify their too just resentment, Edward Hyde had to bring them to the door, and pay them in a cheque drawn in the name of Henry Jekyll. But this danger was easily eliminated from the future, by opening an account at another bank in the name of Edward Hyde himself; and when, by sloping my own hand backward, I had supplied my double with a signature, I thought I sat beyond the reach of fate.
纵容（即使现在我也很难承认这是我犯下的）我无意进入；我的意思只是指出我的惩罚临近时的警告和连续步骤。我遇到过一次事故，由于它没有造成什么后果，所以我只提一下。虐待儿童的行为引起了一位路人对我的愤怒，那天我认出了他是你的亲戚；医生和孩子的家人加入了他的行列。有时我会担心自己的生命安全；最后，为了平息他们过于正义的怨恨，爱德华·海德不得不把他们带到门口，并用一张以亨利·杰基尔的名义开出的支票支付给他们。但通过在另一家银行以爱德华·海德本人的名义开设账户，这种危险很容易从未来消除。当我把自己的手向后倾斜，为我的替身签名时，我以为我超出了命运的掌控范围。

Some two months before the murder of Sir Danvers, I had been out for one of my adventures, had returned at a late hour, and woke the next day in bed with somewhat odd sensations. It was in vain I looked about me; in vain I saw the decent furniture and tall proportions of my room in the square; in vain that I recognised the pattern of the bed-curtains and the design of the mahogany frame; something still kept insisting that I was not where I was,
丹弗斯爵士被谋杀前大约两个月，我出去探险一次，很晚才回来，第二天在床上醒来，感觉有些奇怪。我徒劳地环顾四周；我徒劳地看到广场上我的房间里有体面的家具和高大的比例。我徒劳地认出了床帘的图案和桃花心木框架的设计。有些东西仍然坚持认为我不在原地，

that I had not wakened where I seemed to be, but in the little room in Soho where I was accustomed to sleep in the body of Edward Hyde. I smiled to myself, and, in my psychological way began lazily to inquire into the elements of this illusion, occasionally, even as I did so, dropping back into a comfortable morning doze. I was still so engaged when, in one of my more wakeful moments, my eyes fell upon my hand. Now the hand of Henry Jekyll (as you have often remarked) was professional in shape and size: it was large, firm, white, and comely. But the hand which I now saw, clearly enough, in the yellow light of a mid-London morning, lying half shut on the bed-clothes, was lean, corded, knuckly, of a dusky pallor and thickly shaded with a swart growth of hair. It was the hand of Edward Hyde.
我并没有在我看起来所在的地方醒来，而是在苏荷区的一个小房间里醒来，在那里我习惯了睡在爱德华·海德的身体里。我对自己微笑，然后，以我的心理方式开始懒洋洋地探究这种幻觉的要素，偶尔，即使我这样做，也会重新陷入舒适的早晨打瞌睡。当我还很投入的时候，在我比较清醒的时候，我的目光落在了我的手上。现在，亨利·杰基尔的手（正如你经常提到的那样）在形状和大小上都很专业：它大、紧实、洁白、漂亮。但现在我在伦敦中部早晨的黄光下看到的那只手，在伦敦中部早晨的黄光下，半合着地躺在床上，那只手很瘦，呈绳索状，指节粗壮，呈暗色苍白，浓密地长满了黑黝黝的黑痣。头发。这是爱德华·海德的手。

I must have stared upon it for near half a minute, sunk as I was in the mere stupidity of wonder, before terror woke up in my breast as sudden and startling as the crash of cymbals; and bounding from my bed, I rushed to the mirror. At the sight that met my eyes, my blood was changed into something exquisitely thin and icy. Yes, I had gone to bed Henry Jekyll, I had awakened Edward Hyde. How was this to be explained? I asked myself, and then, with another bound of terror — how was it to be remedied? It was well on in the morning; the servants were up; all my drugs were in the
我一定盯着它看了近半分钟，沉浸在纯粹的惊奇中，然后恐惧在我的胸中苏醒，就像铙钹的撞击声一样突然而令人震惊；我从床上跳起来，冲向镜子。眼前的景象，我的血液变成了极其稀薄而冰冷的东西。是的，我已经上床睡觉了，亨利·杰基尔，我已经唤醒了爱德华·海德。这该如何解释呢？我问自己，然后又感到一阵恐惧——该如何补救呢？早上天气很好。仆人们都起来了。我所有的药物都在

cabinet — a long journey down two pairs of stairs, through the back passage, across the open court and through the anatomical theatre, from where I was then standing horror-struck. It might indeed be possible to cover my face; but of what use was that, when I was unable to conceal the alteration in my stature? And then with an overpowering sweetness of relief, it came back upon my mind that the servants were already used to the coming and going of my second self. I had soon dressed, as well as I was able, in clothes of my own size: had soon passed through the house, where Bradshaw stared and drew back at seeing Mr. Hyde at such an hour and in such a strange array; and ten minutes later, Dr. Jekyll had returned to his own shape and was sitting down, with a darkened brow, to make a feint of breakfasting.
橱柜——沿着两对楼梯走下的漫长旅程，穿过后面的通道，穿过开放的庭院，穿过解剖室，从那里我当时惊恐地站着。也许确实可以遮住我的脸；但当我无法掩盖自己身材的变化时，这有什么用呢？然后，带着一种压倒性的如释重负的甜蜜，我回想起仆人们已经习惯了我的第二个自我的来来去去。我很快就尽我所能地穿上了适合自己尺码的衣服：很快就穿过了房子，布拉德肖在这样的时间看到海德先生，穿着这样奇怪的衣服，盯着那儿，又退了一步；十分钟后，杰基尔博士恢复了原来的样子，皱着眉头坐下来假装吃早餐。

Small indeed was my appetite. This inexplicable incident, this reversal of my previous experience, seemed, like the Babylonian finger on the wall, to be spelling out the letters of my judgment; and I began to reflect more seriously than ever before on the issues and possibilities of my double existence. That part of me which I had the power of projecting, had lately been much exercised and nourished; it had seemed to me of late as though the body of Edward Hyde had grown in stature, as though (when I wore that form) I were conscious of a more generous tide of blood; and I began to spy a danger that,
我的胃口确实很小。这件莫名其妙的事件，这与我之前经历的逆转，似乎就像墙上的巴比伦手指一样，正在拼出我的判断的字母。我开始比以往任何时候都更认真地思考我双重存在的问题和可能性。我有能力投射的那部分最近得到了很大的锻炼和滋养。在我看来，爱德华·海德的身体最近似乎变得更高大了，就好像（当我穿上那个身体时）我意识到了更慷慨的血潮；我开始察觉到一个危险，

if this were much prolonged, the balance of my nature might be permanently overthrown, the power of voluntary change be forfeited, and the character of Edward Hyde become irrevocably mine. The power of the drug had not been always equally displayed. Once, very early in my career, it had totally failed me; since then I had been obliged on more than one occasion to double, and once, with infinite risk of death, to treble the amount; and these rare uncertainties had cast hitherto the sole shadow on my contentment. Now, however, and in the light of that morning’s accident, I was led to remark that whereas, in the beginning, the difficulty had been to throw off the body of Jekyll, it had of late gradually but decidedly transferred itself to the other side. All things therefore seemed to point to this: that I was slowly losing hold of my original and better self, and becoming slowly incorporated with my second and worse.
如果这种情况持续太久，我本性的平衡可能会被永久打破，自愿改变的力量就会被丧失，爱德华·海德的性格就会不可挽回地变成我的。药物的功效并不总是同等地发挥出来。有一次，在我职业生涯的早期，它让我彻底失败了；从那时起，我不止一次被迫将金额加倍，有一次，冒着无限的死亡风险，将金额增加了三倍。迄今为止，这些罕见的不确定性给我的满足感蒙上了唯一的阴影。然而，现在，鉴于那天早上的事故，我不得不说，虽然一开始的困难是甩掉杰基尔的身体，但它最近逐渐但明确地转移到了另一边。因此，所有的事情似乎都指向这一点：我正在慢慢地失去原来的、更好的自我，并慢慢地与第二个、更糟糕的自我融为一体。

Between these two, I now felt I had to choose. My two natures had memory in common, but all other faculties were most unequally shared between them. Jekyll (who was composite) now with the most sensitive apprehensions, now with a greedy gusto, projected and shared in the pleasures and adventures of Hyde; but Hyde was indifferent to Jekyll, or but remembered him as the mountain bandit remembers the cavern in which he conceals himself from pursuit. Jekyll had more than a father’s interest; Hyde
在这两者之间，我现在觉得我必须做出选择。我的两种本性有共同的记忆力，但他们之间的所有其他能力却极为不平等。杰基尔（复合体）现在带着最敏感的忧虑，现在带着贪婪的热情，投射并分享海德的快乐和冒险；但海德对杰基尔漠不关心，或者说，他对杰基尔的记忆就像山匪对他躲藏的山洞的记忆一样。杰基尔的兴趣不只是父亲的兴趣；他还有自己的兴趣。海德

had more than a son’s indifference. To cast in my lot with Jekyll, was to die to those appetites which I had long secretly indulged and had of late begun to pamper. To cast it in with Hyde, was to die to a thousand interests and aspirations, and to become, at a blow and for ever, despised and friendless. The bargain might appear unequal; but there was still another consideration in the scales; for while Jekyll would suffer smartingly in the fires of abstinence, Hyde would be not even conscious of all that he had lost. Strange as my circumstances were, the terms of this debate are as old and commonplace as man; much the same inducements and alarms cast the die for any tempted and trembling sinner; and it fell out with me, as it falls with so vast a majority of my fellows, that I chose the better part and was found wanting in the strength to keep to it.
多了一个儿子的冷漠。把我的命运与杰基尔投在一起，就是对那些我长期以来秘密沉迷并最近开始放纵的欲望死去。如果把它和海德放在一起，就意味着放弃一千种兴趣和愿望，并且一下子就永远成为被鄙视和没有朋友的人。讨价还价可能看起来不平等；但天平上还有另一个考虑因素；因为虽然杰基尔会在禁欲之火中遭受痛苦，但海德甚至不会意识到他失去了一切。尽管我的处境很奇怪，但这场辩论的术语和人类一样古老而普遍。对于任何受试探和颤抖的罪人来说，同样的诱惑和警报都使他们丧命。我和我的大多数同伴一样，都失败了，所以我选择了更好的部分，却发现缺乏坚持下去的力量。

Yes, I preferred the elderly and discontented doctor, surrounded by friends and cherishing honest hopes; and bade a resolute farewell to the liberty, the comparative youth, the light step, leaping impulses and secret pleasures, that I had enjoyed in the disguise of Hyde. I made this choice perhaps with some unconscious reservation, for I neither gave up the house in Soho, nor destroyed the clothes of Edward Hyde, which still lay ready in my cabinet. For two months, however, I was true to my determination; for two months I led a life of such
是的，我更喜欢年迈、心怀不满的医生，身边有朋友，怀着真诚的希望；并坚决告别了我在海德的伪装下所享受的自由、相对年轻的时光、轻盈的脚步、跳跃的冲动和秘密的快乐。我做出这个选择也许是带着某种无意识的保留，因为我既没有放弃苏荷区的房子，也没有毁掉爱德华·海德的衣服，它们仍然放在我的柜子里。然而，两个月来，我坚定了自己的决心；两个月来我过着这样的生活

severity as I had never before attained to, and enjoyed the compensations of an approving conscience. But time began at last to obliterate the freshness of my alarm; the praises of conscience began to grow into a thing of course; I began to be tortured with throes and longings, as of Hyde struggling after freedom; and at last, in an hour of moral weakness, I once again compounded and swallowed the transforming draught.
我以前从未达到过如此严厉的程度，并享受着良心认可的补偿。但时间终于开始消除我新鲜的警报。良心的赞美开始变得理所当然。我开始受到痛苦和渴望的折磨，就像海德为自由而奋斗一样；最后，在道德软弱的一个小时里，我再次配制并吞下了改变性的药水。

I do not suppose that, when a drunkard reasons with himself upon his vice, he is once out of five hundred times affected by the dangers that he runs through his brutish, physical insensibility; neither had I, long as I had considered my position, made enough allowance for the complete moral insensibility and insensate readiness to evil, which were the leading characters of Edward Hyde. Yet it was by these that I was punished. My devil had been long caged, he came out roaring. I was conscious, even when I took the draught, of a more unbridled, a more furious propensity to ill. It must have been this, I suppose, that stirred in my soul that tempest of impatience with which I listened to the civilities of my unhappy victim; I declare, at least, before God, no man morally sane could have been guilty of that crime upon so pitiful a provocation; and that I struck in no more reasonable spirit than that in which a sick child may break a plaything. But I had voluntarily stripped myself of all those balancing instincts
我不认为，当一个酒鬼就自己的恶习与自己推理时，他五百次中不会因为他的野蛮、身体麻木不仁而遭遇危险。当我考虑到自己的立场时，我也没有充分考虑到爱德华·海德的主角是完全道德上的麻木不仁和对邪恶的麻木不仁的准备。然而我却因此受到了惩罚。我的魔鬼被关在笼子里很久了，他出来时咆哮着。即使在我喝了药之后，我也意识到自己有一种更加肆无忌惮、更加狂暴的作恶倾向。我想，一定是这个原因激起了我内心的不耐烦，让我听着不幸的受害者的客气话；我至少在上帝面前宣布，任何道德上理智的人都不会在如此可怜的挑衅下犯下这种罪行；我打球的精神并不比生病的孩子打破玩具更合理。但我自愿剥夺了自己所有的平衡本能

by which even the worst of us continues to walk with some degree of steadiness among temptations; and in my case, to be tempted, however slightly, was to fall.
即使我们中最糟糕的人也能在诱惑中继续保持一定程度的稳定；就我而言，受到诱惑，无论多么轻微，都会跌倒。

Instantly the spirit of hell awoke in me and raged. With a transport of glee, I mauled the unresisting body, tasting delight from every blow; and it was not till weariness had begun to succeed, that I was suddenly, in the top fit of my delirium, struck through the heart by a cold thrill of terror. A mist dispersed; I saw my life to be forfeit; and fled from the scene of these excesses, at once glorying and trembling, my lust of evil gratified and stimulated, my love of life screwed to the topmost peg. I ran to the house in Soho, and (to make assurance doubly sure) destroyed my papers; thence I set out through the lamplit streets, in the same divided ecstasy of mind, gloating on my crime, light-headedly devising others in the future, and yet still hastening and still hearkening in my wake for the steps of the avenger. Hyde had a song upon his lips as he compounded the draught, and as he drank it, pledged the dead man. The pangs of transformation had not done tearing him, before Henry Jekyll, with streaming tears of gratitude and remorse, had fallen upon his knees and lifted his clasped hands to God. The veil of self-indulgence was rent from head to foot, I saw my life as a whole: I followed it up from the days of childhood, when I had walked
地狱之灵立刻在我体内苏醒并肆虐。我欣喜若狂地猛击那毫无抵抗力的身体，每一击都尝到了快乐的滋味。直到疲倦开始袭来，我才在精神错乱最严重的时候突然被一种冰冷的恐惧击中了心。薄雾散去；我眼睁睁地看着我的生命被丧失；我逃离了这些过分的场面，既自豪又颤抖，我的邪恶欲望得到了满足和刺激，我对生活的热爱被拧到了最高的钉子上。我跑到苏荷区的房子，并（为了确保双重保证）销毁了我的文件；从那时起，我出发穿过灯火通明的街道，心中同样心旷神怡，对自己的罪行幸灾乐祸，轻率地计划着未来的其他罪行，但仍然在加速，仍然在我的身后聆听复仇者的脚步。海德调配药水时，嘴里唱着一首歌，喝下它时，他向死者发誓。转变的痛苦还没有把他撕碎，亨利·杰基尔就带着感激和悔恨的泪水跪下，向上帝举起紧握的双手。自我放纵的面纱从头到脚被撕裂，我看到了我的生活的整体：我从童年时代开始跟踪它，当我走过的时候

with my father’s hand, and through the self-denying toils of my professional life, to arrive again and again, with the same sense of unreality, at the damned horrors of the evening. I could have screamed aloud; I sought with tears and prayers to smother down the crowd of hideous images and sounds with which my memory swarmed against me; and still, between the petitions, the ugly face of my iniquity stared into my soul. As the acuteness of this remorse began to die away, it was succeeded by a sense of joy. The problem of my conduct was solved. Hyde was thenceforth impossible; whether I would or not, I was now confined to the better part of my existence; and oh, how I rejoiced to think it! with what willing humility, I embraced anew the restrictions of natural life! with what sincere renunciation, I locked the door by which I had so often gone and come, and ground the key under my heel!
通过我父亲的双手，通过我职业生涯中克己的辛劳，带着同样的不真实感，一次又一次地到达那个该死的恐怖夜晚。我本可以大声尖叫；我用泪水和祈祷试图压制那些涌入我记忆中的可怕图像和声音。然而，在恳求之间，我罪孽的丑恶面孔仍然凝视着我的灵魂。当这种强烈的悔恨开始消失时，随之而来的是一种喜悦的感觉。我的行为问题就解决了。从此以后，海德就不可能了。无论我是否愿意，我现在都被限制在我存在的大部分时间里了。哦，想到这一点我多么高兴！我怀着多么心甘情愿的谦卑，重新接受了自然生活的限制！我带着多么真诚的放弃，锁上了我经常出入的门，然后把钥匙踩在脚后跟上！

The next day, came the news that the murder had been overlooked, that the guilt of Hyde was patent to the world, and that the victim was a man high in public estimation. It was not only a crime, it had been a tragic folly. I think I was glad to know it; I think I was glad to have my better impulses thus buttressed and guarded by the terrors of the scaffold. Jekyll was now my city of refuge; let but Hyde peep out an instant, and the hands of all men would be raised to take and slay him.
第二天，传来消息说，这起谋杀案被忽视了，海德的罪行是全世界都知道的，而且受害者是一位公众评价很高的人。这不仅是犯罪，而且是悲剧性的愚蠢行为。我想我很高兴知道这一点；我想我很高兴我的更好的冲动得到了断头台恐怖的支持和保护。杰基尔现在是我的避难之城；只要海德一瞥，所有人都会举起手来抓住并杀死他。

I resolved in my future conduct to redeem the past; and I can say with honesty that my resolve was fruitful of some good. You know yourself how earnestly in the last months of last year, I laboured to relieve suffering; you know that much was done for others, and that the days passed quietly, almost happily for myself. Nor can I truly say that I wearied of this beneficent and innocent life; I think instead that I daily enjoyed it more completely; but I was still cursed with my duality of purpose; and as the first edge of my penitence wore off, the lower side of me, so long indulged, so recently chained down, began to growl for licence. Not that I dreamed of resuscitating Hyde; the bare idea of that would startle me to frenzy: no, it was in my own person, that I was once more tempted to trifle with my conscience; and it was as an ordinary secret sinner, that I at last fell before the assaults of temptation.
我决心用我未来的行为来弥补过去；我可以诚实地说，我的决心结出了一些善果。你自己知道，在去年的最后几个月里，我是多么认真地为解除痛苦而努力；你知道我为别人做了很多事情，日子过得很平静，对我自己来说几乎是幸福的。我也不能说我已经厌倦了这种仁慈而纯真的生活。相反，我认为我每天都更充分地享受它；但我仍然因为我的双重目标而受到诅咒。当我的忏悔心渐渐消退时，长期沉迷、最近又被束缚的我的下半身开始咆哮，要求放纵。并不是说我梦想着让海德复活；而是我梦想着让海德复活。光是这个想法就会让我感到疯狂：不，是我自己，我再一次受到诱惑去玩弄我的良心。作为一个普通的秘密罪人，我最终在诱惑的攻击下堕落了。

There comes an end to all things; the most capacious measure is filled at last; and this brief condescension to evil finally destroyed the balance of my soul. And yet I was not alarmed; the fall seemed natural, like a return to the old days before I had made discovery. It was a fine, clear, January day, wet under foot where the frost had melted, but cloudless overhead; and the Regent’s Park was full of winter chirrupings and sweet with spring odours. I sat in the sun on a bench; the animal within me licking the
万物皆有终结；最宽敞的量器终于被填满了；这种对邪恶的短暂屈尊终于破坏了我灵魂的平衡。然而我并没有惊慌；坠落似乎很自然，就像回到了我做出发现之前的旧时光。这是一月份的一个晴朗的日子，脚下湿漉漉的，霜已经融化了，但头顶万里无云。摄政公园充满了冬天的叽叽喳喳声和春天的甜蜜气息。我坐在长凳上晒太阳；我体内的动物舔着

chops of memory; the spiritual side a little, drowsed, promising subsequent penitence, but not yet moved to begin. After all, I reflected, I was like my neighbours; and then I smiled, comparing myself with other men, comparing my active goodwill with the lazy cruelty of their neglect. And at the very moment of that vain-glorious thought, a qualm came over me, a horrid nausea and the most deadly shuddering. These passed away, and left me faint; and then as in its turn the faintness subsided, I began to be aware of a change in the temper of my thoughts, a greater boldness, a contempt of danger, a solution of the bonds of obligation. I looked down; my clothes hung formlessly on my shrunken limbs; the hand that lay on my knee was corded and hairy. I was once more Edward Hyde. A moment before I had been safe of all men’s respect, wealthy, beloved — the cloth laying for me in the dining-room at home; and now I was the common quarry of mankind, hunted, houseless, a known murderer, thrall to the gallows.
记忆碎片；精神方面有点昏昏欲睡，承诺随后的忏悔，但尚未开始。毕竟，我想，我就像我的邻居一样。然后我笑了，将自己与其他人进行比较，将我积极的善意与他们忽视的懒惰残酷进行比较。就在这个虚荣光荣的想法产生的那一刻，我感到一阵不安，一种可怕的恶心和最致命的颤抖。这些都过去了，让我昏厥；然后，随着昏厥逐渐消退，我开始意识到我的思想脾气发生了变化，变得更加大胆，对危险的蔑视，义务的束缚得到了解决。我低头一看；我的衣服毫无形状地挂在我萎缩的四肢上。放在我膝盖上的手是绳状的，毛茸茸的。我再次成为爱德华·海德。就在不久前，我还安全地不受所有男人的尊重、富有、受人爱戴——家里餐厅里为我铺着的布料；现在我成了人类共同的猎物，被追捕，无家可归，是一个众所周知的杀人犯，被绞刑架所奴役。

My reason wavered, but it did not fail me utterly. I have more than once observed that, in my second character, my faculties seemed sharpened to a point and my spirits more tensely elastic; thus it came about that, where Jekyll perhaps might have succumbed, Hyde rose to the importance of the moment. My drugs were in one of the presses of my cabinet; how was I
我的理由动摇了，但它并没有完全让我失望。我不止一次地观察到，在我的第二个角色中，我的能力似乎变得敏锐，我的精神更加紧张而富有弹性。因此，在杰基尔可能已经屈服的地方，海德却崛起了这一时刻的重要性。我的药物在我内阁的一台压机里；我怎么样

to reach them? That was the problem that (crushing my temples in my hands) I set myself to solve. The laboratory door I had closed. If I sought to enter by the house, my own servants would consign me to the gallows. I saw I must employ another hand, and thought of Lanyon. How was he to be reached? how persuaded? Supposing that I escaped capture in the streets, how was I to make my way into his presence? and how should I, an unknown and displeasing visitor, prevail on the famous physician to rifle the study of his colleague, Dr. Jekyll? Then I remembered that of my original character, one part remained to me: I could write my own hand; and once I had conceived that kindling spark, the way that I must follow became lighted up from end to end.
到达他们？这就是我（用手捏碎太阳穴）自己要解决的问题。实验室的门我已经关上了。如果我想从房子里进去，我自己的仆人就会把我送上绞刑架。我意识到我必须用另一只手，于是想到了兰宁。如何联系到他？怎么说服的？假设我在街上逃脱了抓捕，我该如何进入他的面前呢？我，一个不知名的、令人不快的访客，该如何说服这位著名的医生来研究他的同事杰基尔博士的研究呢？然后我想起了我原来的性格，我还剩下一部分：我可以自己写字；我可以用自己的双手写字。一旦我构想出那点燃的火花，我必须遵循的道路就从头到尾都被照亮了。

Thereupon, I arranged my clothes as best I could, and summoning a passing hansom, drove to an hotel in Portland Street, the name of which I chanced to remember. At my appearance (which was indeed comical enough, however tragic a fate these garments covered) the driver could not conceal his mirth. I gnashed my teeth upon him with a gust of devilish fury; and the smile withered from his face — happily for him — yet more happily for myself, for in another instant I had certainly dragged him from his perch. At the inn, as I entered, I looked about me with so black a countenance as made the attendants tremble; not a look did they exchange in my
于是，我尽量整理好衣服，叫了一辆路过的双轮马车，开车去了波特兰街的一家旅馆，我偶然想起了旅馆的名字。看到我的出现（这确实很滑稽，无论这些衣服掩盖了多么悲惨的命运），司机都无法掩饰他的欢笑。我带着一阵恶魔般的愤怒对他咬牙切齿。他脸上的笑容消失了——为他高兴——但为我自己更高兴，因为在另一瞬间我确实把他从栖息处拖了下来。当我走进旅馆时，我环顾四周，脸色黑得让服务员都发抖。他们没有对我交换任何眼神

presence; but obsequiously took my orders, led me to a private room, and brought me wherewithal to write. Hyde in danger of his life was a creature new to me; shaken with inordinate anger, strung to the pitch of murder, lusting to inflict pain. Yet the creature was astute; mastered his fury with a great effort of the will; composed his two important letters, one to Lanyon and one to Poole; and that he might receive actual evidence of their being posted, sent them out with directions that they should be registered.
在场;但他却谄媚地接受了我的命令，把我带到一间私人房间，并给我带来了写作所需的资金。海德面临生命危险，这对我来说是个新鲜事。因过度的愤怒而颤抖，达到了谋杀的程度，渴望造成痛苦。然而这个生物很聪明。用意志的巨大努力控制了他的愤怒；写了两封重要的信，一封写给兰宁，一封写给普尔；并且他可能会收到他们被张贴的实际证据，并将他们发送出去并指示他们应该进行登记。

Thenceforward, he sat all day over the fire in the private room, gnawing his nails; there he dined, sitting alone with his fears, the waiter visibly quailing before his eye; and thence, when the night was fully come, he set forth in the corner of a closed cab, and was driven to and fro about the streets of the city. He, I say — I cannot say, I. That child of Hell had nothing human; nothing lived in him but fear and hatred. And when at last, thinking the driver had begun to grow suspicious, he discharged the cab and ventured on foot, attired in his misfitting clothes, an object marked out for observation, into the midst of the nocturnal passengers, these two base passions raged within him like a tempest. He walked fast, hunted by his fears, chattering to himself, skulking through the less-frequented thoroughfares, counting the minutes that still divided him from midnight. Once a
从此以后，他整天坐在包房的火边，啃着指甲。他在那里用餐，独自坐着，心里充满恐惧，侍者在他眼前明显地颤抖着。夜幕降临后，他在一辆封闭的出租车角落里出发，在城市的街道上来回行驶。我说他——我不能说我。那个地狱之子没有任何人性；除了恐惧和仇恨，他心里什么也没有。最后，他以为司机开始起疑了，于是下了出租车，穿着不合身的衣服，像一个被标记为观察的对象，步行冒险进入夜间乘客的中间，这两种卑鄙的激情在内心熊熊燃烧。他就像一场暴风雨。他走得很快，被恐惧所追捕，自言自语，偷偷穿过人迹罕至的大道，数着距离午夜还有多少分钟。一旦

woman spoke to him, offering, I think, a box of lights. He smote her in the face, and she fled.
女人对他说话，我想，递给他一盒灯。他打了她的脸，她就逃跑了。

When I came to myself at Lanyon’s, the horror of my old friend perhaps affected me somewhat: I do not know; it was at least but a drop in the sea to the abhorrence with which I looked back upon these hours. A change had come over me. It was no longer the fear of the gallows, it was the horror of being Hyde that racked me. I received Lanyon’s condemnation partly in a dream; it was partly in a dream that I came home to my own house and got into bed. I slept after the prostration of the day, with a stringent and profound slumber which not even the nightmares that wrung me could avail to break. I awoke in the morning shaken, weakened, but refreshed. I still hated and feared the thought of the brute that slept within me, and I had not of course forgotten the appalling dangers of the day before; but I was once more at home, in my own house and close to my drugs; and gratitude for my escape shone so strong in my soul that it almost rivalled the brightness of hope.
当我在兰宁家清醒过来时，老朋友的恐惧也许对我产生了一些影响：我不知道；我知道。回顾这几个小时，我的憎恶之情至少只是沧海一粟。我身上发生了变化。折磨我的不再是对绞刑架的恐惧，而是对成为海德的恐惧。我部分地在梦中受到了兰宁的谴责；我回到自己的房子并躺在床上，这在一定程度上是在梦中。经过一天的疲惫之后，我睡着了，睡得很沉沉，甚至连令我痛苦的噩梦也无法打破。早上我醒来时浑身发抖、虚弱，但神清气爽。我仍然对沉睡在我体内的野兽感到憎恨和恐惧，当然我也没有忘记前一天的可怕危险。但我又回到了家，在自己的房子里，靠近我的毒品。对我逃脱的感激之情在我的灵魂中如此强烈地闪耀，几乎可以与希望的光芒相媲美。

I was stepping leisurely across the court after breakfast, drinking the chill of the air with pleasure, when I was seized again with those indescribable sensations that heralded the change; and I had but the time to gain the shelter of my cabinet, before I was once again raging and freezing with the passions of Hyde. It took on this occasion a double dose to recall me to
早餐后，我悠闲地穿过球场，愉快地呼吸着寒冷的空气，这时我再次感受到预示着这一变化的那些难以形容的感觉；在我再次因海德的激情而狂怒和冰冷之前，我只来得及获得内阁的庇护。这次我花了双倍的剂量才想起

myself; and alas! Six hours after, as I sat looking sadly in the fire, the pangs returned, and the drug had to be re-administered. In short, from that day forth it seemed only by a great effort as of gymnastics, and only under the immediate stimulation of the drug, that I was able to wear the countenance of Jekyll. At all hours of the day and night, I would be taken with the premonitory shudder; above all, if I slept, or even dozed for a moment in my chair, it was always as Hyde that I awakened. Under the strain of this continually-impending doom and by the sleeplessness to which I now condemned myself, ay, even beyond what I had thought possible to man, I became, in my own person, a creature eaten up and emptied by fever, languidly weak both in body and mind, and solely occupied by one thought: the horror of my other self. But when I slept, or when the virtue of the medicine wore off, I would leap almost without transition (for the pangs of transformation grew daily less marked) into the possession of a fancy brimming with images of terror, a soul boiling with causeless hatreds, and a body that seemed not strong enough to contain the raging energies of life. The powers of Hyde seemed to have grown with the sickliness of Jekyll. And certainly the hate that now divided them was equal on each side. With Jekyll, it was a thing of vital instinct. He had now seen the full deformity of that creature that shared with him some of the phenomena of
我;唉！六个小时后，当我坐在火中悲伤地看着时，疼痛又回来了，不得不重新服用药物。简而言之，从那天起，我似乎只有通过体操般的巨大努力，并且只有在药物的直接刺激下，我才能呈现杰基尔的面容。无论白天还是黑夜，我都会感到预兆的颤抖。最重要的是，如果我睡着了，甚至在椅子上打瞌睡，我总是会像海德一样醒来。在这种不断逼近的厄运的压力下，在我现在谴责自己的失眠的压力下，哎，甚至超出了我对人类的想象，我自己变成了一个被发烧吞噬和空虚的生物，无精打采地身体和精神都很虚弱，只被一个念头占据：对另一个自我的恐惧。但当我睡着了，或者当药物的功效逐渐消失时，我几乎会毫无过渡地（因为转变的痛苦一天天变得不那么明显）跃入一种充满恐怖景象的幻想，一个因无缘无故的仇恨而沸腾的灵魂。以及似乎不足以容纳汹涌生命能量的身体。海德的力量似乎随着杰基尔的病弱而增强。当然，现在分裂他们的仇恨在双方都是平等的。对于杰基尔来说，这是一种至关重要的本能。他现在已经看到了这个生物的全部畸形，它与他有着共同的一些现象。

consciousness, and was co-heir with him to death: and beyond these links of community, which in themselves made the most poignant part of his distress, he thought of Hyde, for all his energy of life, as of something not only hellish but inorganic. This was the shocking thing; that the slime of the pit seemed to utter cries and voices; that the amorphous dust gesticulated and sinned; that what was dead, and had no shape, should usurp the offices of life. And this again, that that insurgent horror was knit to him closer than a wife, closer than an eye; lay caged in his flesh, where he heard it mutter and felt it struggle to be born; and at every hour of weakness, and in the confidence of slumber, prevailed against him and deposed him out of life. The hatred of Hyde for Jekyll, was of a different order. His tenor of the gallows drove him continually to commit temporary suicide, and return to his subordinate station of a part instead of a person; but he loathed the necessity, he loathed the despondency into which Jekyll was now fallen, and he resented the dislike with which he was himself regarded. Hence the ape-like tricks that he would play me, scrawling in my own hand blasphemies on the pages of my books, burning the letters and destroying the portrait of my father; and indeed, had it not been for his fear of death, he would long ago have ruined himself in order to involve me in the ruin. But his love of life is wonderful; I go further: I, who sicken
意识，并与他共同继承死亡：除了这些社区联系之外，这些联系本身就构成了他痛苦中最令人心酸的部分，他想到了海德，尽管他生命力十足，但他不仅想到了地狱般的东西，而且想到了海德。无机的。这是令人震惊的事情；坑里的粘液似乎在发出呼喊和声音；无定形的尘埃在打手势并犯罪；那些死去的、没有形状的东西应该篡夺生命的职权。再说一遍，那种叛逆的恐惧与他的关系比妻子更近，比眼睛更近。躺在他肉体的笼子里，他听到它咕咕叫，感觉到它挣扎着要出生。在每一个虚弱的时刻，在熟睡的信心中，他都战胜了他，把他从生命中赶了出来。海德对杰基尔的仇恨则不同。他的绞架上的男高音迫使他不断地暂时自杀，回到他作为一个角色而不是一个人的从属地位。但他厌恶这种必要性，他厌恶杰基尔现在陷入的沮丧，他怨恨人们对他的不待见。因此，他会像猿猴一样玩弄我，亲手在我的书页上写下亵渎的话，烧掉信件，毁掉我父亲的肖像。事实上，如果不是因为他对死亡的恐惧，他早就毁掉了自己，以便把我也卷入其中。但他对生活的热爱是美妙的；我走得更远：我，生病了

and freeze at the mere thought of him, when I recall the abjection and passion of this attachment, and when I know how he fears my power to cut him off by suicide, I find it in my heart to pity him.
当我想到他时，我就冻结了，当我回想起这种依恋的卑鄙和激情时，当我知道他如何害怕我用自杀的方式切断他的力量时，我发现我的内心怜悯他。

It is useless, and the time awfully fails me, to prolong this description; no one has ever suffered such torments, let that suffice; and yet even to these, habit brought — no, not alleviation — but a certain callousness of soul, a certain acquiescence of despair; and my punishment might have gone on for years, but for the last calamity which has now fallen, and which has finally severed me from my own face and nature. My provision of the salt, which had never been renewed since the date of the first experiment, began to run low. I sent out for a fresh supply, and mixed the draught; the ebullition followed, and the first change of colour, not the second; I drank it and it was without efficiency. You will learn from Poole how I have had London ransacked; it was in vain; and I am now persuaded that my first supply was impure, and that it was that unknown impurity which lent efficacy to the draught.
延长这个描述是没有用的，而且我也没有时间了。没有人受过这样的折磨，这就足够了；然而，即使对这些人来说，习惯也带来了——不，不是缓解——而是灵魂的某种冷酷无情，某种绝望的默许。如果不是现在发生的最后一场灾难，我的惩罚可能会持续很多年，它最终使我与自己的面容和本性隔绝。我的盐供应量自第一次实验之日起就从未更新过，开始变少。我派人去取新鲜的补给品，并混合了吃水。接下来是沸腾，是第一次颜色变化，而不是第二次。我喝了它，但没有效果。你将从普尔那里了解到我是如何洗劫伦敦的；这是徒劳的；现在我确信我最初的供应是不纯的，正是这种未知的杂质赋予了这种药水功效。

About a week has passed, and I am now finishing this statement under the influence of the last of the old powders. This, then, is the last time, short of a miracle, that Henry Jekyll can think his own thoughts or see his own face (now how sadly altered!) in the glass. Nor must I delay
大约一周过去了，我现在正在最后的旧粉的影响下完成这篇陈述。那么，这就是亨利·杰基尔最后一次在镜子里思考自己的想法或看到自己的脸（现在发生了多么可悲的变化！），这几乎算不上奇迹。我也不必拖延

too long to bring my writing to an end; for if my narrative has hitherto escaped destruction, it has been by a combination of great prudence and great good luck. Should the throes of change take me in the act of writing it, Hyde will tear it in pieces; but if some time shall have elapsed after I have laid it by, his wonderful selfishness and Circumscription to the moment will probably save it once again from the action of his ape-like spite. And indeed the doom that is closing on us both, has already changed and crushed him. Half an hour from now, when I shall again and for ever re-indue that hated personality, I know how I shall sit shuddering and weeping in my chair, or continue, with the most strained and fear-struck ecstasy of listening, to pace up and down this room (my last earthly refuge) and give ear to every sound of menace. Will Hyde die upon the scaffold? or will he find courage to release himself at the last moment? God knows; I am careless; this is my true hour of death, and what is to follow concerns another than myself. Here then, as I lay down the pen and proceed to seal up my confession, I bring the life of that unhappy Henry Jekyll to an end.
太长了，无法结束我的写作；因为如果说我的叙述迄今为止没有被毁掉的话，那是因为我非常谨慎，而且运气很好。如果我在写作时遭遇变革的阵痛，海德会把它撕成碎片；但如果我把它搁置一段时间后，他奇妙的自私和对当下的限制可能会再次将它从他猿猴般的恶意行为中拯救出来。事实上，即将降临到我们两人身上的厄运已经改变并压垮了他。半小时后，当我将再次永远地重新拥有那种令人讨厌的性格时，我知道我将如何坐在椅子上颤抖和哭泣，或者继续以最紧张和恐惧的狂喜聆听，踱步在这个房间（我最后的尘世避难所）里走来走去，倾听每一个威胁的声音。海德会死在断头台上吗？还是他会在最后一刻鼓起勇气释放自己？天知道;我粗心；这是我真正的死亡时刻，接下来发生的事情与我无关。然后，当我放下笔并开始密封我的忏悔时，我结束了那个不幸的亨利·杰基尔的生命。