The-Tales-of-Mother-Goose-by-Charles-Perrault
查尔斯·佩罗的《鹅妈妈的故事》
The Tales of Mother Goose
鹅妈妈的故事
CINDERELLA, OR THE LITTLE GLASS SLIPPER.
灰姑娘，或小玻璃鞋。
THE SLEEPING BEAUTY IN THE WOODS.
树林中的睡美人。
LITTLE THUMB.
小拇指。
THE MASTER CAT, OR PUSS IN BOOTS.
猫大师，或穿靴子的猫。
RIQUET WITH THE TUFT.
Riquet 与簇绒。
BLUE BEARD.
蓝胡子。
THE FAIRY.
仙女。
LITTLE RED RIDING-HOOD.
小红帽。


The Tales of Mother Goose
鹅妈妈的故事

By Charles Perrault
查尔斯·佩罗

The Tales of Mother Goose
鹅妈妈的故事

As First Collected by Charles Perrault in 1696
Charles Perrault 于 1696 年首次收藏

Charles Perrault
查尔斯·佩罗

CINDERELLA, OR THE LITTLE GLASS SLIPPER.
灰姑娘，或小玻璃鞋。

Once upon a time there was a gentleman who married, for his second wife, the proudest and most haughty woman that ever was seen. She had two daughters of her own, who were, indeed, exactly like her in all things. The gentleman had also a young daughter, of rare goodness and sweetness of temper, which she took from her mother, who was the best creature in the world.
从前有一位绅士，他娶了有史以来最骄傲、最傲慢的女人为他的第二任妻子。她自己有两个女儿，确实，她们在各方面都和她一模一样。这位先生还有一个年幼的女儿，她是从她的母亲那里继承来的，她的母亲是世界上最好的人，她有着罕见的善良和温柔的脾气。

The wedding was scarcely over, when the stepmother’s bad temper began to show itself. She could not bear the goodness of this young girl, because it made her own daughters appear the more odious. The stepmother gave her the meanest work in the house to do; she had to scour the dishes, tables, etc., and to scrub the floors and clean out the bedrooms. The poor girl had to sleep in the garret, upon a wretched straw bed, while her sisters lay in fine rooms with inlaid floors, upon beds of the very newest fashion, and where they had looking-glasses so large that they might see themselves at their full length. The poor girl bore all patiently, and dared not complain to her father, who would have scolded her if she had done so, for his wife governed him entirely.
婚礼刚结束，继母的脾气就开始显露出来。她无法忍受这个年轻女孩的善良，因为这让她自己的女儿显得更加可憎。继母让她做家里最卑微的工作。她必须清理碗碟、桌子等，擦洗地板并打扫卧室。可怜的女孩不得不睡在阁楼上一张破烂的稻草床上，而她的姐妹们则躺在镶有地板的精美房间里，睡在最新时尚的床上，她们的镜子太大了，以至于她们可以在镜子中看到自己。他们的全长。可怜的女孩耐心地忍受着一切，也不敢向父亲抱怨，如果她这样做，父亲会责骂她的，因为他的妻子完全统治着他。

When she had done her work, she used to go into the chimney corner, and sit down among the cinders, hence she was called Cinderwench. The younger sister of the two, who was not so rude and uncivil as the elder, called her Cinderella. However, Cinderella, in spite of her mean apparel, was a hundred times more handsome than her sisters, though they were always richly dressed.
当她完成工作后，她常常走到烟囱角落，坐在煤渣中间，因此她被称为“Cinderwench”。两人中的妹妹不像姐姐那么粗鲁和不文明，称她为灰姑娘。然而，灰姑娘尽管衣着简陋，却比她的姐妹们英俊一百倍，尽管她们总是衣着华丽。

It happened that the King’s son gave a ball, and invited to it all persons of fashion. Our young misses were also invited, for they cut a very grand figure among the people of the country-side. They were highly delighted with the invitation, and wonderfully busy in choosing the gowns, petticoats, and head-dresses which might best become them. This made Cinderella’s lot still harder, for it was she who ironed her sisters’ linen and plaited their ruffles. They talked all day long of nothing but how they should be dressed.
恰巧国王的儿子举办了一场舞会，邀请了所有时尚人士参加。我们的小姐们也被邀请了，因为她们在农村里是很有名气的。他们对邀请感到非常高兴，并且非常忙于选择最适合自己的礼服、衬裙和头饰。这让灰姑娘的日子变得更加艰难，因为是她熨烫了姐姐们的亚麻布，为她们编了褶边。他们整天只谈论应该如何穿着。

‘For my part,’ said the elder, ‘I will wear my red velvet suit with French trimmings.’
“就我而言，”长辈说，“我会穿带有法式装饰的红色天鹅绒套装。”

‘And I,’ said the younger, ‘shall wear my usual skirt; but then, to make amends for that I will put on my gold-flowered mantle, and my diamond stomacher, which is far from being the most ordinary one in the world.’ They sent for the best hairdressers they could get to make up their hair in fashionable style, and bought patches for their cheeks. Cinderella was consulted in all these matters, for she had good taste. She advised them always for the best, and even offered her services to dress their hair, which they were very willing she should do.
“而我，”弟弟说，“就穿我平时穿的裙子；不过，为了弥补这一点，我会穿上我的金花斗篷和我的钻石肚兜，这绝不是世界上最普通的一件。”他们派了他们能找到的最好的美发师来化妆。发型很时尚，还给脸颊买了补丁。灰姑娘在所有这些事情上都征求了她的意见，因为她很有品味。她总是为他们提供最好的建议，甚至主动为他们打理头发，他们非常愿意她这么做。

As she was doing this, they said to her:—
当她这样做时，他们对她说：

‘Cinderella, would you not be glad to go to the ball?’
“灰姑娘，你不乐意去参加舞会吗？”

‘Young ladies,’ she said, ‘you only jeer at me; it is not for such as I am to go there.’
“年轻女士们，”她说，“你们只会嘲笑我；像我这样的人不适合去那里。

‘You are right,’ they replied; ‘people would laugh to see a Cinderwench at a ball.’
“你是对的，”他们回答道。 “人们在舞会上看到灰姑娘时会大笑。”

Any one but Cinderella would have dressed their hair awry, but she was good-natured, and arranged it perfectly well. They were almost two days without eating, so much were they transported with joy. They broke above a dozen laces in trying to lace themselves tight, that they might have a fine, slender shape, and they were continually at their looking-glass.
除了灰姑娘以外，任何人都会把头发弄乱，但她脾气很好，把头发打理得很完美。他们已经快两天没吃东西了，心里高兴极了。她们为了把自己系得更紧，而折断了十几条鞋带，这样她们就能拥有优美、苗条的身材，而且她们不断地看着镜子。

At last the happy day came; they went to Court, and Cinderella followed them with her eyes as long as she could, and when she had lost sight of them, she fell a-crying.
幸福的日子终于到来了；他们去了宫廷，灰姑娘尽可能地用目光追随他们，当她看不见他们时，她哭了起来。

Her godmother, who saw her all in tears, asked her what was the matter.
她的教母看到她泪流满面，问她发生了什么事。

‘I wish I could—I wish I could—‘ but she could not finish for sobbing.
“我希望我能——我希望我能——”但她因抽泣而无法说完。

Her godmother, who was a fairy, said to her, ‘You wish you could go to the ball; is it not so?’
她的教母是一位仙女，她对她说：“你希望能去参加舞会；不是这样吗？

‘Alas, yes,’ said Cinderella, sighing.
“唉，是的，”灰姑娘叹了口气说道。

‘Well,’ said her godmother, ‘be but a good girl, and I will see that you go.’ Then she took her into her chamber, and said to her, ‘Run into the garden, and bring me a pumpkin.’
“好吧，”她的教母说，“做一个好女孩，我会送你走的。”然后她把她带进自己的房间，对她说：“跑到花园里，给我拿一个南瓜。”

Cinderella went at once to gather the finest she could get, and brought it to her godmother, not being able to imagine how this pumpkin could help her to go to the ball. Her godmother scooped out all the inside of it, leaving nothing but the rind. Then she struck it with her wand, and the pumpkin was instantly turned into a fine gilded coach.
灰姑娘立刻去收集她能找到的最好的南瓜，并把它带给她的教母，她无法想象这个南瓜如何能帮助她去参加舞会。她的教母把里面的东西都挖出来，只留下外皮。然后她用魔杖敲击南瓜，南瓜立刻变成了一辆精美的镀金马车。

She then went to look into the mouse-trap, where she found six mice, all alive. She ordered Cinderella to lift the trap-door, when, giving each mouse, as it went out, a little tap with her wand, it was that moment turned into a fine horse, and the six mice made a fine set of six horses of a beautiful mouse-colored, dapple gray.
然后她去查看捕鼠器，发现了六只老鼠，都还活着。她命令灰姑娘打开活板门，当每只老鼠出去时，用魔杖轻轻敲击一下，就在那一刻，它们变成了一匹好马，六只老鼠组成了一组精美的六匹马。美丽的老鼠色、斑纹灰色。

Being at a loss for a coachman, Cinderella said, ‘I will go and see if there is not a rat in the rat-trap—we may make a coachman of him.’
灰姑娘对车夫一筹莫展，说道：“我去看看老鼠夹里有没有老鼠，我们可以把他当车夫。”

‘You are right,’ replied her godmother; ‘go and look.’
“你说得对，”她的教母回答道。 “去看看吧。”

Cinderella brought the rat-trap to her, and in it there were three huge rats. The fairy chose the one which had the largest beard, and, having touched him with her wand, he was turned into a fat coachman with the finest mustache and whiskers ever seen.
灰姑娘把捕鼠器拿过来，里面有三只巨大的老鼠。仙女选择了胡子最大的那个，用魔杖触碰他，他就变成了一个肥胖的车夫，留着有史以来最漂亮的胡子和胡须。

After that, she said to her:—
说完，她对她说：——

‘Go into the garden, and you will find six lizards behind the watering-pot; bring them to me.’
‘走进花园，你会发现水壶后面有六只蜥蜴；把它们带给我。

She had no sooner done so than her godmother turned them into six footmen, who skipped up immediately behind the coach, with their liveries all trimmed with gold and silver, and they held on as if they had done nothing else their whole lives.
她刚一这样做，教母就把他们变成了六个步兵，他们立即跳到马车后面，他们的制服上都装饰着金银，他们坚守着，好像他们一生都没有做过其他事情。

The fairy then said to Cinderella, ‘Well, you see here a carriage fit to go to the ball in; are you not pleased with it?’
仙女对灰姑娘说：“好吧，你看这里有一辆适合去参加舞会的马车；你不满意吗？

‘Oh, yes!’ she cried; ‘but must I go as I am in these rags?’
“哦，是的！”她喊道。 “但是我必须穿着这些破烂衣服走吗？”

Her godmother simply touched her with her wand, and, at the same moment, her clothes were turned into cloth of gold and silver, all decked with jewels. This done, she gave her a pair of the prettiest glass slippers in the whole world. Being thus attired, she got into the carriage, her godmother commanding her, above all things, not to stay till after midnight, and telling her, at the same time, that if she stayed one moment longer, the coach would be a pumpkin again, her horses mice, her coachman a rat, her footmen lizards, and her clothes would become just as they were before.
她的教母只是用魔杖碰了碰她，与此同时，她的衣服就变成了金银布，上面还镶满了珠宝。完成后，她给了她一双全世界最漂亮的玻璃鞋。她这样打扮，上了马车，她的教母最重要的是命令她不要待到午夜过后，同时告诉她，如果她再多待一会儿，马车就会再次变成南瓜。她的马匹是老鼠，车夫是老鼠，她的仆人是蜥蜴，她的衣服也将变得和以前一样。

She promised her godmother she would not fail to leave the ball before midnight. She drove away, scarce able to contain herself for joy. The King’s son, who was told that a great princess, whom nobody knew, was come, ran out to receive her. He gave her his hand as she alighted from the coach, and led her into the hall where the company were assembled. There was at once a profound silence; every one left off dancing, and the violins ceased to play, so attracted was every one by the singular beauties of the unknown newcomer. Nothing was then heard but a confused sound of voices saying:—
她向教母保证，她一定会在午夜之前离开舞会。她开车离开，高兴得几乎无法控制自己。国王的儿子得知一位没人认识的伟大公主来了，就跑出去迎接她。当她下了马车时，他向她伸出了手，带她走进了连队聚集的大厅。立刻一片沉寂。所有人都停止了跳舞，小提琴也停止了演奏，所有人都被这位不知名的新人独特的美貌所吸引。然后什么也没有听到，只听到一阵混乱的声音：——

‘Ha! how beautiful she is! Ha! how beautiful she is!’
'哈！她多么美丽啊！哈！她多漂亮啊！

The King himself, old as he was, could not keep his eyes off her, and he told the Queen under his breath that it was a long time since he had seen so beautiful and lovely a creature.
国王本人虽然年纪大了，却无法将目光从她身上移开，他低声告诉王后，他已经很久没有见过如此美丽可爱的生物了。

All the ladies were busy studying her clothes and head-dress, so that they might have theirs made next day after the same pattern, provided they could meet with such fine materials and able hands to make them.
所有的女士们都忙着研究她的衣服和头饰，以便第二天能够按照同样的样式制作出自己的衣服和头饰，前提是她们能遇到这么好的材料和能手制作它们。

The King’s son conducted her to the seat of honor, and afterwards took her out to dance with him. She danced so very gracefully that they all admired her more and more. A fine collation was served, but the young Prince ate not a morsel, so intently was he occupied with her.
国王的儿子把她领到了上座，然后带她出去和他跳舞。她的舞姿非常优美，大家都越来越佩服她。一道精美的菜肴端上来，但年轻的王子一口也没吃，因为他全神贯注地照顾着她。

She went and sat down beside her sisters, showing them a thousand civilities, and giving them among other things part of the oranges and citrons with which the Prince had regaled her. This very much surprised them, for they had not been presented to her.
她走到姐妹们身边坐下，向她们表示了千百种客气，还把王子招待她的橙子和柚子的一部分送给了她们。这让他们非常惊讶，因为他们没有被介绍给她。

Cinderella heard the clock strike a quarter to twelve. She at once made her adieus to the company and hastened away as fast as she could.
灰姑娘听见时钟敲响了十二点一刻。她立刻告别了众人，以最快的速度离开了。

As soon as she got home, she ran to find her godmother, and, after having thanked her, she said she much wished she might go to the ball the next day, because the King’s son had asked her to do so. As she was eagerly telling her godmother all that happened at the ball, her two sisters knocked at the door; Cinderella opened it. ‘How long you have stayed!’ said she, yawning, rubbing her eyes, and stretching herself as if she had been just awakened. She had not, however, had any desire to sleep since they went from home.
她一回到家，就跑去找她的教母，感谢她之后，她说她非常希望第二天能去参加舞会，因为国王的儿子要求她这样做。当她急切地向教母讲述舞会上发生的一切时，她的两个姐妹敲响了门。灰姑娘打开了它。 “你呆了多久啊！”她打着呵欠，揉着眼睛，伸了个懒腰，好像刚刚睡醒一样。然而，自从他们离开家后，她就没有任何睡觉的欲望。

‘If you had been at the ball,’ said one of her sisters, ‘you would not have been tired with it. There came thither the finest princess, the most beautiful ever was seen with mortal eyes. She showed us a thousand civilities, and gave us oranges and citrons.’
“如果你参加了舞会，”她的一位姐妹说，“你就不会感到厌倦。最美丽的公主来到了这里，她是凡人眼中最美丽的公主。她向我们展示了一千种礼貌，并给了我们橙子和柚子。

Cinderella did not show any pleasure at this. Indeed, she asked them the name of the princess; but they told her they did not know it, and that the King’s son was very much concerned, and would give all the world to know who she was. At this Cinderella, smiling, replied:—
灰姑娘对此并没有表现出任何高兴。事实上，她问了他们公主的名字；但他们告诉她，他们并不知道，国王的儿子非常关心，愿意让全世界知道她是谁。听到这，灰姑娘微笑着回答：——

‘Was she then so very beautiful? How fortunate you have been! Could I not see her? Ah! dear Miss Charlotte, do lend me your yellow suit of clothes which you wear every day.’
‘那时她就这么美丽了吗？你真是太幸运了！我就不能见她吗？啊!亲爱的夏洛特小姐，请将你每天穿的黄色衣服借给我。

‘Ay, to be sure!’ cried Miss Charlotte; ‘lend my clothes to such a dirty Cinderwench as thou art! I should be out of my mind to do so.’
“啊，当然！”夏洛特小姐喊道。 ‘把我的衣服借给你这个肮脏的煤姑娘！我应该疯了才这么做。

Cinderella, indeed, expected such an answer and was very glad of the refusal; for she would have been sadly troubled if her sister had lent her what she jestingly asked for. The next day the two sisters went to the ball, and so did Cinderella, but dressed more magnificently than before. The King’s son was always by her side, and his pretty speeches to her never ceased. These by no means annoyed the young lady. Indeed, she quite forgot her godmother’s orders to her, so that she heard the clock begin to strike twelve when she thought it could not be more than eleven. She then rose up and fled, as nimble as a deer. The Prince followed, but could not overtake her. She left behind one of her glass slippers, which the Prince took up most carefully. She got home, but quite out of breath, without her carriage, and in her old clothes, having nothing left her of all her finery but one of the little slippers, fellow to the one she had dropped. The guards at the palace gate were asked if they had not seen a princess go out, and they replied they had seen nobody go out but a young girl, very meanly dressed, and who had more the air of a poor country girl than of a young lady.
灰姑娘确实期望得到这样的答复，并且对遭到拒绝感到非常高兴。因为如果她的姐姐借给她她开玩笑地要的东西，她会感到非常难过。第二天，两姐妹去了舞会，灰姑娘也去了，但打扮比以前更加华丽。王子总是在她身边，对她说些漂亮话，从未停止过。这些并没有激怒这位年轻女士。事实上，她完全忘记了教母对她的命令，所以当她以为时间不会超过十一点时，她却听到时钟敲响了十二点。然后她就起身逃跑，敏捷如鹿。王子紧随其后，但无法追上她。她留下了一只水晶鞋，王子小心翼翼地捡起了它。她回到家，但气喘吁吁，没有马车，穿着旧衣服，除了一只小拖鞋外，她什么都没有留下，和她掉下来的那只一样。有人问宫门口的侍卫，有没有见过公主出门，他们回答说，除了一个穿着破烂的小姑娘外，没有见过其他人出去，她的气质更像是一个穷乡下姑娘，而不是一个小姑娘。年轻女子。

When the two sisters returned from the ball, Cinderella asked them if they had had a pleasant time, and if the fine lady had been there. They told her, yes; but that she hurried away the moment it struck twelve, and with so much haste that she dropped one of her little glass slippers, the prettiest in the world, which the King’s son had taken up. They said, further, that he had done nothing but look at her all the time, and that most certainly he was very much in love with the beautiful owner of the glass slipper.
当两姐妹从舞会回来时，灰姑娘问她们玩得是否愉快，那位美丽的女士是否也在场。他们告诉她，是的；但当十二点钟敲响时，她就匆匆离去，而且太匆忙，以致于她掉下了国王儿子捡起的一只小水晶鞋，那是世界上最漂亮的水晶鞋。他们进一步说，他除了一直看着她什么也没做，而且他肯定非常爱水晶鞋的美丽主人。

What they said was true; for a few days after the King’s son caused it to be proclaimed, by sound of trumpet, that he would marry her whose foot this slipper would fit exactly. They began to try it on the princesses, then on the duchesses, and then on all the ladies of the Court; but in vain. It was brought to the two sisters, who did all they possibly could to thrust a foot into the slipper, but they could not succeed. Cinderella, who saw this, and knew her slipper, said to them, laughing:—
他们说的是真的；几天后，国王的儿子吹响了号角，宣布他将娶这双拖鞋正好适合她的脚的她为妻。他们开始在公主身上尝试，然后是公爵夫人，然后是宫廷里的所有​​女士。但徒劳。它被带到两姐妹那里，她们竭尽全力将一只脚伸进拖鞋里，但没有成功。灰姑娘看到了这一幕，也认识了她的拖鞋，笑着对他们说：

‘Let me see if it will not fit me.’
“让我看看它是否适合我。”

Her sisters burst out a-laughing, and began to banter her. The gentleman who was sent to try the slipper looked earnestly at Cinderella, and, finding her very handsome, said it was but just that she should try, and that he had orders to let every lady try it on.
她的姐妹们哈哈大笑，开始取笑她。被派去试鞋的绅士认真地看着灰姑娘，发现她很漂亮，就说只是让她试穿而已，他奉命让每个女士都试穿。

He obliged Cinderella to sit down, and, putting the slipper to her little foot, he found it went on very easily, and fitted her as if it had been made of wax. The astonishment of her two sisters was great, but it was still greater when Cinderella pulled out of her pocket the other slipper and put it on her foot. Thereupon, in came her godmother, who, having touched Cinderella’s clothes with her wand, made them more magnificent than those she had worn before.
他强迫灰姑娘坐下，然后把拖鞋放在她的小脚上，他发现它很容易穿，而且很适合她，就像是用蜡做的一样。她的两个姐妹非常惊讶，但当灰姑娘从口袋里掏出另一只拖鞋穿在脚上时，更加惊讶了。这时，她的教母进来了，她用魔杖碰了一下灰姑娘的衣服，让它们比她以前穿过的衣服更加华丽。

And now her two sisters found her to be that beautiful lady they had seen at the ball. They threw themselves at her feet to beg pardon for all their ill treatment of her. Cinderella took them up, and, as she embraced them, said that she forgave them with all her heart, and begged them to love her always.
现在，她的两个姐妹发现她就是她们在舞会上看到的那位美丽的女士。他们跪倒在她的脚下，请求她原谅他们对她的所有虐待。灰姑娘把他们抱起来，拥抱他们时说，她全心全意地原谅了他们，并恳求他们永远爱她。

She was conducted to the young Prince, dressed as she was. He thought her more charming than ever, and, a few days after, married her. Cinderella, who was as good as she was beautiful, gave her two sisters a home in the palace, and that very same day married them to two great lords of the Court.
她被带去见年轻的王子，穿着和她一样。他认为她比以往任何时候都更有魅力，几天后，他就娶了她。灰姑娘既美丽又善良，给她的两个姐妹在宫殿里安了一个家，并在同一天将她们嫁给了宫廷的两位大领主。

THE SLEEPING BEAUTY IN THE WOODS.
树林中的睡美人。

Once upon a time there was a king and a queen, who were very sorry that they had no children,—so sorry that it cannot be told.
从前，有一位国王和一位王后，他们非常遗憾自己没有孩子，——非常遗憾，无法讲述。

At last, however, the Queen had a daughter. There was a very fine christening; and the Princess had for her godmothers all the fairies they could find in the whole kingdom (there were seven of them), so that every one of them might confer a gift upon her, as was the custom of fairies in those days. By this means the Princess had all the perfections imaginable.
然而，女王终于有了一个女儿。举行了一场非常盛大的洗礼仪式。公主请了整个王国中所有能找到的仙女作为她的教母（共有七位），以便每一位仙女都可以向她赠送礼物，这是当时仙女的习俗。通过这种方式，公主拥有了所有可以想象到的完美。

After the christening was over, the company returned to the King’s palace, where was prepared a great feast for the fairies. There was placed before every one of them a magnificent cover with a case of massive gold, wherein were a spoon, and a knife and fork, all of pure gold set with diamonds and rubies. But as they were all sitting down at table they saw a very old fairy come into the hall. She had not been invited, because for more than fifty years she had not been out of a certain tower, and she was believed to be either dead or enchanted.
洗礼结束后，一行人回到了国王的宫殿，那里为仙女们准备了丰盛的盛宴。他们每个人面前都放着一个华丽的盖子，里面有一个巨大的金盒，里面有一把勺子、一把刀和叉子，都是纯金的，上面镶嵌着钻石和红宝石。但当他们都在餐桌旁坐下时，他们看到一位非常老的仙女走进了大厅。她没有被邀请，因为五十多年来她没有走出过某座塔，人们相信她要么死了，要么被施了魔法。

The King ordered her a cover, but he could not give her a case of gold as the others had, because seven only had been made for the seven fairies. The old fairy fancied she was slighted, and muttered threats between her teeth. One of the young fairies who sat near heard her, and, judging that she might give the little Princess some unlucky gift, hid herself behind the curtains as soon as they left the table. She hoped that she might speak last and undo as much as she could the evil which the old fairy might do.
国王给她买了一个盖子，但他不能像其他人一样给她一盒金子，因为只为七位仙女做了七个。老仙女以为自己受到了轻视，咬牙切齿地威胁道。坐在附近的一位年轻仙女听到了她的声音，判断她可能会给小公主一些不吉利的礼物，他们一离开桌子就躲到了窗帘后面。她希望她能最后发言，尽可能地消除老仙女可能做的坏事。

In the meanwhile all the fairies began to give their gifts to the Princess. The youngest gave her for her gift that she should be the most beautiful person in the world; the next, that she should have the wit of an angel; the third, that she should be able to do everything she did gracefully; the fourth, that she should dance perfectly; the fifth, that she should sing like a nightingale; and the sixth, that she should play all kinds of musical instruments to the fullest perfection.
与此同时，所有的仙女们都开始给公主送礼物。老三送给她礼物，让她成为世界上最美丽的人；其次，她应该拥有天使般的智慧；第三，她应该能够优雅地做她所做的一切；第四，她应该跳舞得完美；第五，她应该像夜莺一样歌唱；第六，她要把各种乐器演奏得尽善尽美。

The old fairy’s turn coming next, her head shaking more with spite than with age, she said that the Princess should pierce her hand with a spindle and die of the wound. This terrible gift made the whole company tremble, and everybody fell a-crying.
接下来轮到老仙女了，她的头摇晃得更多是因为怨恨，而不是因为年老，她说公主应该用纺锤刺穿她的手，然后死于伤口。这个可怕的礼物让整个公司都颤抖起来，每个人都哭了。

At this very instant the young fairy came from behind the curtains and said these words in a loud voice:—
就在这时，年轻的仙女从帘子后面走了出来，大声说道：

‘Assure yourselves, O King and Queen, that your daughter shall not die of this disaster. It is true, I have no power to undo entirely what my elder has done. The Princess shall indeed pierce her hand with a spindle; but, instead of dying, she shall only fall into a deep sleep, which shall last a hundred years, at the end of which a king’s son shall come and awake her.’
“国王和王后，请向自己保证，您的女儿不会死于这场灾难。确实，我没有权力完全撤销我长辈所做的一切。公主确实会用纺锤刺穿她的手；但是，她不会死去，只会陷入沉睡，持续一百年，最后国王的儿子会来唤醒她。

The King, to avoid the misfortune foretold by the old fairy, issued orders forbidding any one, on pain of death, to spin with a distaff and spindle, or to have a spindle in his house. About fifteen or sixteen years after, the King and Queen being absent at one of their country villas, the young Princess was one day running up and down the palace; she went from room to room, and at last she came into a little garret on the top of the tower, where a good old woman, alone, was spinning with her spindle. This good woman had never heard of the King’s orders against spindles.
国王为了避免老仙女预言的不幸，下令禁止任何人用纺锤和纺锤纺纱，或在家里放置纺锤，违者处死。大约十五或十六年后，国王和王后不在他们的一栋乡村别墅里，年轻的公主有一天在宫殿里跑来跑去。她从一个房间走到另一个房间，最后来到了塔顶的一个小阁楼，那里有一个善良的老妇人，独自一人，正在用纺锤纺纱。这个善良的女人从来没有听说过国王禁止纺锤的命令。

‘What are you doing there, my good woman?’ said the Princess.
“你在那儿做什么，我的好女人？”公主问道。

‘I am spinning, my pretty child,’ said the old woman, who did not know who the Princess was.
“我在纺纱，我漂亮的孩子，”老妇人说道，她不知道公主是谁。

‘Ha!’ said the Princess, ‘this is very pretty; how do you do it? Give it to me. Let me see if I can do it.’
“哈！”公主说，“这非常漂亮；你怎么做呢？把它给我。让我看看我能不能做到。

She had no sooner taken it into her hand than, either because she was too quick and heedless, or because the decree of the fairy had so ordained, it ran into her hand, and she fell down in a swoon.
她刚把它接在手里，不知是因为她太急了，还是因为仙女的旨意，它就落入了她的手中，她昏倒在地。

The good old woman, not knowing what to do, cried out for help. People came in from every quarter; they threw water upon the face of the Princess, unlaced her, struck her on the palms of her hands, and rubbed her temples with cologne water; but nothing would bring her to herself.
善良的老妇人不知如何是好，大声呼救。人们从四面八方涌来；他们把水泼在公主脸上，解开她的鞋带，打她的手掌，并用古龙水擦她的太阳穴。但没有什么能让她恢复过来。

Then the King, who came up at hearing the noise, remembered what the fairies had foretold. He knew very well that this must come to pass, since the fairies had foretold it, and he caused the Princess to be carried into the finest room in his palace, and to be laid upon a bed all embroidered with gold and silver. One would have taken her for a little angel, she was so beautiful; for her swooning had not dimmed the brightness of her complexion: her cheeks were carnation, and her lips coral. It is true her eyes were shut, but she was heard to breathe softly, which satisfied those about her that she was not dead.
国王一听到声音就想起了仙女们的预言。他很清楚这件事一定会发生，因为仙女们已经预言了，于是他把公主带进了他宫殿里最好的房间，放在一张绣满金银的床上。让人会以为她是一个小天使，她是那么美丽；因为她的昏厥并没有使她的肤色变得黯淡：她的脸颊是康乃馨色的，她的嘴唇是珊瑚色的。确实，她的眼睛是闭着的，但可以听到她轻柔的呼吸声，这让她周围的人确信她没有死。

The King gave orders that they should let her sleep quietly till the time came for her to awake. The good fairy who had saved her life by condemning her to sleep a hundred years was in the kingdom of Matakin, twelve thousand leagues off, when this accident befell the Princess; but she was instantly informed of it by a little dwarf, who had seven-leagued boots, that is, boots with which he could stride over seven leagues of ground at once. The fairy started off at once, and arrived, about an hour later, in a fiery chariot drawn by dragons.
国王命令他们让她安静地睡觉，直到她醒来。当这场事故降临到公主身上时，那位善良的仙女让她沉睡一百年而救了她的命，她正在一万二千里之外的马塔金王国里。但她很快就被一个小矮人告知了这件事，这个小矮人有七里格的靴子，也就是说，他穿着这双靴子可以同时跨过七里格的土地。仙女立刻出发，大约一个小时后，乘坐龙拉的火战车抵达。

The King handed her out of the chariot, and she approved everything he had done; but as she had very great foresight, she thought that when the Princess should awake she might not know what to do with herself, if she was all alone in this old palace. This was what she did: she touched with her wand everything in the palace (except the King and Queen),—governesses, maids of honor, ladies of the bedchamber, gentlemen, officers, stewards, cooks, undercooks, kitchen maids, guards with their porters, pages, and footmen; she likewise touched all the horses which were in the stables, the cart horses, the hunters and the saddle horses, the grooms, the great dogs in the outward court, and little Mopsey, too, the Princess’s spaniel, which was lying on the bed.
国王把她从马车上推出来，她也认可了他所做的一切。但由于她很有先见之明，她认为当公主醒来时，如果她独自一人在这座古老的宫殿里，她可能会不知道该怎么办。她就是这么做的：她用魔杖触摸了宫殿里的一切（除了国王和王后）——家庭教师、女仆、寝宫女士、绅士、官员、管家、厨师、厨师、厨房女仆、侍卫。他们的搬运工、侍童和男仆；她还触摸了马厩里的所有马匹，拉车的马，猎人和鞍马，马夫，外院的大狗，还有躺在床上的小莫普西，公主的西班牙猎犬。 。

As soon as she touched them they all fell asleep, not to awake again until their mistress did, that they might be ready to wait upon her when she wanted them. The very spits at the fire, as full as they could hold of partridges and pheasants, fell asleep, and the fire itself as well. All this was done in a moment. Fairies are not long in doing their work.
她一碰他们，他们就都睡着了，直到他们的女主人醒来才再次醒来，这样他们就可以在她需要的时候伺候她。他们在火上吐了一口唾沫，吃饱了鹧鸪和雉鸡，睡着了，火也睡着了。这一切都是在一瞬间完成的。仙女们的工作时间并不长。

And now the King and Queen, having kissed their dear child without waking her, went out of the palace and sent forth orders that nobody should come near it.
现在，国王和王后亲吻了他们亲爱的孩子，没有吵醒她，走出宫殿，下令任何人不得靠近她。

These orders were not necessary; for in a quarter of an hour’s time there grew up all round about the park such a vast number of trees, great and small, bushes and brambles, twining one within another, that neither man nor beast could pass through; so that nothing could be seen but the very top of the towers of the palace; and that, too, only from afar off. Every one knew that this also was the work of the fairy in order that while the Princess slept she should have nothing to fear from curious people.
这些命令是没有必要的；不到一刻钟的时间，公园周围就长出了一大片大大小小的树木，灌木丛和荆棘丛，相互缠绕，无论是人还是野兽都无法通过。因此除了宫殿塔楼的顶端什么也看不见。而且，这也只是从远处看。大家都知道，这也是仙女的杰作，这样公主在睡觉的时候就不用担心好奇的人了。

After a hundred years the son of the King then reigning, who was of another family from that of the sleeping Princess, was a-hunting on that side of the country, and he asked what those towers were which he saw in the middle of a great thick wood. Every one answered according as they had heard. Some said that it was an old haunted castle, others that all the witches of the country held their midnight revels there, but the common opinion was that it was an ogre’s dwelling, and that he carried to it all the little children he could catch, so as to eat them up at his leisure, without any one being able to follow him, for he alone had the power to make his way through the wood.
一百年后，当时在位的国王的儿子（他与沉睡的公主是另一个家庭）正在国家的另一边打猎，他问他在一片土地中间看到的那些塔是什么。很厚的木头。众人都按照自己所听到的回答。有人说这是一座古老的闹鬼城堡，有人说全国所有的女巫都在那里举行午夜狂欢，但普遍的看法是这是一个食人魔的住所，他把所有能抓到的小孩都带到了那里，以便在空闲时吃掉它们，没有人能够跟随他，因为只有他有能力穿过树林。

The Prince did not know what to believe, and presently a very aged countryman spake to him thus:—
王子不知道该相信什么，不久，一位年老的乡下人对他这样说道：

‘May it please your royal Highness, more than fifty years since I heard from my father that there was then in this castle the most beautiful princess that was ever seen; that she must sleep there a hundred years, and that she should be waked by a king’s son, for whom she was reserved.’
“愿殿下高兴，自从我从父亲那里听说这座城堡里曾经住着有史以来最美丽的公主已有五十多年了；她必须在那里睡一百年，并且她应该被一个国王的儿子叫醒，她是为他保留的。

The young Prince on hearing this was all on fire. He thought, without weighing the matter, that he could put an end to this rare adventure; and, pushed on by love and the desire of glory, resolved at once to look into it.
小王子一听，顿时火冒三丈。他想，没有权衡这件事，他就可以结束这次罕见的冒险了。在爱情和荣耀欲望的驱使下，他立即决定调查此事。

As soon as he began to get near to the wood, all the great trees, the bushes, and brambles gave way of themselves to let him pass through. He walked up to the castle which he saw at the end of a large avenue; and you can imagine he was a good deal surprised when he saw none of his people following him, because the trees closed again as soon as he had passed through them. However, he did not cease from continuing his way; a young prince in search of glory is ever valiant.
当他开始接近树林时，所有的大树、灌木丛和荆棘都让路给他通过。他朝一条大大道尽头看到的城堡走去。你可以想象，当他看到没有人跟随他时，他感到非常惊讶，因为当他穿过树木时，树木又关闭了。然而，他并没有停止前进的脚步；追求荣耀的年轻王子永远英勇。

He came into a spacious outer court, and what he saw was enough to freeze him with horror. A frightful silence reigned over all; the image of death was everywhere, and there was nothing to be seen but what seemed to be the outstretched bodies of dead men and animals. He, however, very well knew, by the ruby faces and pimpled noses of the porters, that they were only asleep; and their goblets, wherein still remained some drops of wine, showed plainly that they had fallen asleep while drinking their wine.
他来到了一座宽敞的外院，所看到的一切足以让他惊骇不已。一片可怕的寂静笼罩着一切。死亡的景象无处不在，除了人类和动物伸展开来的尸体之外，什么也看不见。然而，从搬运工红润的脸庞和长满粉刺的鼻子上，他很清楚他们只是在睡觉；他们只是睡着了。他们的酒杯里还残留着几滴酒，显然他们是喝着酒睡着了。

He then crossed a court paved with marble, went up the stairs, and came into the guard chamber, where guards were standing in their ranks, with their muskets upon their shoulders, and snoring with all their might. He went through several rooms full of gentlemen and ladies, some standing and others sitting, but all were asleep. He came into a gilded chamber, where he saw upon a bed, the curtains of which were all open, the most beautiful sight ever beheld—a princess who appeared to be about fifteen or sixteen years of age, and whose bright and resplendent beauty had something divine in it. He approached with trembling and admiration, and fell down upon his knees before her.
然后穿过一座大理石铺成的庭院，走上楼梯，来到警卫室，里面站着一排警卫，肩上扛着火枪，正在使劲打鼾。他走过几个房间，里面挤满了绅士和女士，有的站着，有的坐着，但所有人都睡着了。他走进一间镀金的房间，只见一张床上，窗帘全开，映入眼帘的是最美的景象——一位公主，年龄大约在十五、十六岁左右，容光焕发，容光焕发。其中有神圣的东西。他带着颤抖和钦佩走近，跪在她面前。

Then, as the end of the enchantment was come, the Princess awoke, and looking on him with eyes more tender than could have been expected at first sight, said:—
然后，当魔法结束时，公主醒来了，用比第一眼看到的更加温柔的眼神看着他，说道：

‘Is it you, my Prince? You have waited a long while.’
‘是你吗，我的王子？你已经等了很久了。

The Prince, charmed with these words, and much more with the manner in which they were spoken, knew not how to show his joy and gratitude; he assured her that he loved her better than he did himself. Their discourse was not very connected, but they were the better pleased, for where there is much love there is little eloquence. He was more at a loss than she, and we need not wonder at it; she had had time to think of what to say to him; for it is evident (though history says nothing of it) that the good fairy, during so long a sleep, had given her very pleasant dreams. In short, they talked together for four hours, and then they said not half they had to say.
王子被这些话所吸引，更被这些话的说话方式所吸引，不知道如何表达他的喜悦和感激之情。他向她保证，他比自己更爱她。他们的谈话不是很连贯，但他们更高兴，因为哪里有太多的爱，哪里就很少有雄辩。他比她更不知所措，我们不必为此感到惊讶；她有时间思考该对他说些什么。因为很明显（尽管历史上没有提及）这位善良的仙女在这么长的睡眠中给她带来了非常愉快的梦。总之，他们在一起聊了四个小时，然后他们说的还不到一半。

In the meanwhile all the palace had woke up with the Princess; every one thought upon his own business, and as they were not in love, they were ready to die of hunger. The lady of honor, being as sharp set as the other folks, grew very impatient, and told the Princess aloud that the meal was served. The Prince helped the Princess to rise. She was entirely and very magnificently dressed; but his royal Highness took care not to tell her that she was dressed like his great-grandmother, and had a high collar. She looked not a bit the less charming and beautiful for all that.
与此同时，整个宫殿都和公主一起醒来了。每个人都想着自己的事情，因为他们没有相爱，所以他们准备饿死。贵妃和其他人一样尖锐，变得非常不耐烦，大声告诉公主，饭菜已经上桌了。王子扶着公主站了起来。她衣着华丽，非常华丽。但殿下小心翼翼地没有告诉她，她穿得像他的曾祖母，而且是高领子。尽管如此，她看起来仍然迷人而美丽。

They went into the great mirrored hall, where they supped, and were served by the officers of the Princess’s household. The violins and hautboys played old tunes, but they were excellent, though they had not been played for a hundred years; and after supper, without losing any time, the lord almoner married them in the chapel of the castle. They had but very little sleep—the Princess scarcely needed any; and the Prince left her next morning to return into the city, where his father was greatly troubled about him.
他们走进装有镜子的大大厅，在那里吃晚饭，公主的宫廷官员为他们服务。小提琴和高童演奏着古老的曲子，虽然已经有一百年没有演奏了，但它们仍然非常出色。晚饭后，阿尔莫纳勋爵不失时机地在城堡的小教堂里为他们举行了婚礼。他们的睡眠时间很少——公主几乎不需要睡眠。第二天早上，王子离开她回到城里，他的父亲为他感到非常担心。

The Prince told him that he lost his way in the forest as he was hunting, and that he had slept in the cottage of a charcoal-burner, who gave him cheese and brown bread.
王子告诉他，他在打猎时在森林里迷了路，睡在一个烧炭工的小屋里，烧炭工给了他奶酪和黑面包。

The King, his father, who was a good man, believed him; but his mother could not be persuaded that it was true; and seeing that he went almost every day a-hunting, and that he always had some excuse ready for so doing, though he had been out three or four nights together, she began to suspect that he was married; for he lived thus with the Princess above two whole years, during which they had two children, the elder, a daughter, was named Dawn, and the younger, a son, they called Day, because he was a great deal handsomer than his sister.
他的父亲国王是个好人，他相信了他的说法。但他的母亲无法相信这是真的。看到他几乎每天都去打猎，尽管他已经一起出去了三四个晚上，但他总是有借口这样做，她开始怀疑他已经结婚了。就这样，他和公主一起生活了整整两年，期间他们生了两个孩子，大的是一个女儿，名叫道恩，小的是一个儿子，他们称之为戴，因为他比他的妹妹英俊得多。 。

The Queen spoke several times to her son, to learn after what manner he was passing his time, and told him that in this he ought in duty to satisfy her. But he never dared to trust her with his secret; he feared her, though he loved her, for she was of the race of the Ogres, and the King married her for her vast riches alone. It was even whispered about the Court that she had Ogreish inclinations, and that, whenever she saw little children passing by, she had all the difficulty in the world to prevent herself from falling upon them. And so the Prince would never tell her one word.
女王多次与她的儿子交谈，了解他如何打发时间，并告诉他在这方面他有责任让她满意。但他从来不敢将自己的秘密托付给她。他虽然爱她，却又害怕她，因为她是食人魔的种族，而国王娶她只是为了她的巨额财富。甚至有人私下议论宫廷，说她有食人魔倾向，每当她看到小孩子经过时，她都会千方百计地阻止自己摔倒在他们身上。所以王子永远不会告诉她一个字。

But when the King was dead, which happened about two years afterward, and he saw himself lord and master, he openly declared his marriage: and he went in great state to conduct his Queen to the palace. They made a magnificent entry into the capital city, she riding between her two children.
但当国王去世后，大约两年后，他看到自己是君主和主人，他公开宣布了自己的婚姻：他盛装出席，带着王后进宫。他们华丽地进入首都，她骑在两个孩子中间。

Soon after, the King made war on Emperor Cantalabutte, his neighbor. He left the government of the kingdom to the Queen, his mother, and earnestly commended his wife and children to her care. He was obliged to carry on the war all the summer, and as soon as he left, the Queen-mother sent her daughter-in-law and her children to a country house among the woods, that she might with the more ease gratify her horrible longing. Some few days afterward she went thither herself, and said to her head cook:—
不久之后，国王向他的邻居坎塔拉布特皇帝发动了战争。他将王国的政府交给了他的母亲女王，并诚挚地委托她照顾他的妻子和孩子。他不得不整个夏天都在打仗，他一走，太后就把她的儿媳妇和她的孩子们送到树林里的一座乡间别墅里，这样她就可以更轻松地满足她的要求。可怕的渴望。几天后，她亲自去了那里，对她的厨师长说：

‘I intend to eat little Dawn for my dinner to-morrow.’
“我打算明天晚餐吃小黎明。”

‘O! madam!’ cried the head cook.
‘噢！女士！”厨师长喊道。

‘I will have it so,’ replied the Queen (and this she spoke in the tone of an Ogress who had a strong desire to eat fresh meat), ‘and will eat her with a sharp sauce.’
“我愿意，”女王回答道（她的语气就像一个非常想吃新鲜肉的女妖），“我会用辣酱吃掉她。”

The poor man, knowing very well that he must not play tricks with Ogresses, took his great knife and went up into little Dawn’s chamber. She was then nearly four years old, and came up to him, jumping and laughing, to put her arms round his neck, and ask him for some sugar-candy. Upon which he began to weep, the great knife fell out of his hand, and he went into the back yard and killed a little lamb, and dressed it with such good sauce that his mistress assured him she had never eaten anything so good in her life. He had at the same time taken up little Dawn and carried her to his wife, to conceal her in his lodging at the end of the courtyard.
这个可怜的人很清楚他不能和女妖们玩把戏，于是他拿起他的大刀，走进了小黎明的房间。那时她快四岁了，跳着笑着走到他面前，用双臂搂住他的脖子，向他要一些糖。他开始哭泣，大刀从他手里掉了下来，他走进后院，杀了一只小羊，并给它涂上美味的酱汁，他的情妇向他保证，她从来没有吃过这么好吃的东西。生活。与此同时，他抱起小黎明，把她带到了他的妻子身边，把她藏在院子尽头的住所里。

Eight days afterwards the wicked Queen said to the chief cook, ‘I will sup upon little Day.’
八天后，邪恶的王后对厨师长说：“我要在小日子里吃晚饭。”

He answered not a word, being resolved to cheat her again as he had done before. He went to find little Day, and saw him with a foil in his hand, with which he was fencing with a great monkey: the child was then only three years of age. He took him up in his arms and carried him to his wife, that she might conceal him in her chamber along with his sister, and instead of little Day he served up a young and very tender kid, which the Ogress found to be wonderfully good.
他一言不发，决心再像以前那样欺骗她。他去找小戴，看见他手里拿着一根花剑，正拿着它与一只大猴子击剑：当时孩子只有三岁。他把他抱在怀里，带到他的妻子那里，以便她可以把他和他的妹妹一起藏在她的房间里，他没有给小戴喂食一个年轻而非常温柔的小山羊，食人妖发现它非常好。 。

All had gone well up to now; but one evening this wicked Queen said to her chief cook:—
到目前为止一切都很顺利；但有一天晚上，这位邪恶的王后对她的首席厨师说：

‘I will eat the Queen with the same sauce I had with her children.’
“我会用我和她的孩子们吃的同样的酱汁来吃女王。”

Now the poor chief cook was in despair and could not imagine how to deceive her again. The young Queen was over twenty years old, not reckoning the hundred years she had been asleep: and how to find something to take her place greatly puzzled him. He then decided, to save his own life, to cut the Queen’s throat; and going up into her chamber, with intent to do it at once, he put himself into as great fury as he possibly could, and came into the young Queen’s room with his dagger in his hand. He would not, however, deceive her, but told her, with a great deal of respect, the orders he had received from the Queen-mother.
现在可怜的厨师长陷入了绝望，无法想象如何再次欺骗她。年轻的王后已经二十多岁了，还不算她沉睡了一百年，如何找到一个人来代替她，让他大为困惑。然后，为了保全自己的生命，他决定割断女王的喉咙。他走进了她的房间，打算立即动手，他使自己陷入了最大的愤怒之中，手里拿着匕首，走进了年轻王后的房间。不过，他并没有欺骗她，而是怀着极大的敬意，将太后的命令告诉了她。

‘Do it; do it,’ she said, stretching out her neck. ‘Carry out your orders, and then I shall go and see my children, my poor children, whom I loved so much and so tenderly.’
‘做吧；做吧，”她一边说，一边伸出脖子。 “执行你的命令，然后我就去看看我的孩子们，我可怜的孩子们，我如此深爱着他们。”

For she thought them dead, since they had been taken away without her knowledge.
因为她以为他们已经死了，因为他们是在她不知情的情况下被带走的。

‘No, no, madam,’ cried the poor chief cook, all in tears; ‘you shall not die, and you shall see your children again at once. But then you must go home with me to my lodgings, where I have concealed them, and I will deceive the Queen once more, by giving her a young hind in your stead.’
“不，不，女士，”可怜的厨师长哭着喊道。 ‘你不会死，你会立刻再次见到你的孩子。但你必须跟我一起回家，回到我的住处，我把它们藏在那里，我会再一次欺骗女王，给她一头年轻的母鹿代替你。

Upon this he forthwith conducted her to his room, where, leaving her to embrace her children, and cry along with them, he went and dressed a young hind, which the Queen had for her supper, and devoured with as much appetite as if it had been the young Queen. She was now well satisfied with her cruel deeds, and she invented a story to tell the King on his return, of how the Queen his wife and her two children had been devoured by mad wolves.
说完，他立刻把她领到了自己的房间，留下她去拥抱她的孩子们，和他们一起哭泣，他去给一头年轻的母鹿穿上衣服，这是女王的晚餐，他津津有味地狼吞虎咽地吃了起来。是年轻的女王。她现在对自己的残忍行为感到非常满意，并编造了一个故事，在国王回来后告诉他，王后他的妻子和她的两个孩子是如何被疯狼吃掉的。

One evening, as she was, according to her custom, rambling round about the courts and yards of the palace to see if she could smell any fresh meat, she heard, in a room on the ground floor, little Day crying, for his mamma was going to whip him, because he had been naughty; and she heard, at the same time, little Dawn begging mercy for her brother.
一天晚上，当她按照自己的习惯，在宫殿的庭院和院子里闲逛，看看是否能闻到新鲜的肉味时，她听到底楼的一个房间里传来小戴的哭声，要找妈妈。我要鞭打他，因为他太顽皮了；与此同时，她听到小黎明在为她的兄弟乞求怜悯。

The Ogress knew the voice of the Queen and her children at once, and being furious at having been thus deceived, she gave orders (in a most horrible voice which made everybody tremble) that, next morning by break of day, they should bring into the middle of the great court a large tub filled with toads, vipers, snakes, and all sorts of serpents, in order to have the Queen and her children, the chief cook, his wife and maid, thrown into it, all of whom were to be brought thither with their hands tied behind them.
女妖立即认出了女王和她的孩子们的声音，她对自己被欺骗感到愤怒，她下令（用一种最可怕的声音，让每个人都颤抖），第二天早上天一亮，他们就应该把他们带进屋里。大庭院中央有一个大盆，里面装满了蟾蜍、毒蛇、蛇和各种蛇，以便将王后和她的孩子、厨师长、他的妻子和女仆扔进里面，所有的人都被扔进了里面。双手被绑在身后被带到那里。

They were brought out accordingly, and the executioners were just going to throw them into the tub, when the King, who was not so soon expected, entered the court on horseback and asked, with the utmost astonishment, what was the meaning of that horrible spectacle.
他们被相应地带了出来，刽子手正要把他们扔进浴缸里，国王出乎意料地骑着马走进法庭，非常惊讶地问，那个可怕的东西是什么意思？奇观。

No one dared to tell him, when the Ogress, all enraged to see what had happened, threw herself head foremost into the tub, and was instantly devoured by the ugly creatures she had ordered to be thrown into it to kill the others. The King was of course very sorry, for she was his mother; but he soon comforted himself with his beautiful wife and his pretty children.
没有人敢告诉他，当女妖看到发生的事情时，全都愤怒了，一头扎进浴缸里，立刻就被她命令扔进浴缸里杀死其他人的丑陋生物吞噬了。国王当然非常抱歉，因为她是他的母亲。但他很快就用他美丽的妻子和可爱的孩子来安慰自己。

LITTLE THUMB.
小拇指。

Once upon a time there was a fagot-maker and his wife, who had seven children, all boys. The eldest was but ten years old, and the youngest only seven.
从前，有一个木柴制造者和他的妻子，他们有七个孩子，全是男孩。最大的不过十岁，最小的才七岁。

They were very poor, and their seven children were a great source of trouble to them because not one of them was able to earn his bread. What gave them yet more uneasiness was that the youngest was very delicate, and scarce ever spoke a word, which made people take for stupidity that which was a sign of good sense. He was very little, and when born he was no bigger than one’s thumb; hence he was called Little Thumb.
他们非常贫穷，七个孩子给他们带来了很大的麻烦，因为他们中没有一个能够养家糊口。更让他们不安的是，最小的孩子却很娇弱，几乎不说话，这让人们以为聪明的人很愚蠢。他很小，出生时还不到拇指那么大。因此他被称为小拇指。

The poor child was the drudge of the household, and was always in the wrong. He was, however, the most bright and discreet of all the brothers; and if he spoke little, he heard and thought the more.
这个可怜的孩子是家里的苦力，总是做错事。然而，他是所有兄弟中最聪明、最谨慎的一个。如果他说得少，他听得和想得就多。

There came a very bad year, and the famine was so great that these poor people resolved to rid themselves of their children. One evening, when they were in bed, and the fagot-maker was sitting with his wife at the fire, he said to her, with his heart ready to burst with grief:—
那一年非常糟糕，饥荒非常严重，这些穷人决定摆脱他们的孩子。一天晚上，当他们上床睡觉时，木柴匠和他的妻子坐在火边，他对她说，他的心快要因悲伤而破裂：——

‘You see plainly that we no longer can give our children food, and I cannot bear to see them die of hunger before my eyes; I am resolved to lose them in the wood to-morrow, which may very easily be done, for, while they amuse themselves in tying up fagots, we have only to run away and leave them without their seeing us.’
“你清楚地看到，我们已经不能再给孩子们食物了，我不忍心看着他们在我眼前饿死；我决定明天把他们丢在树林里，这很容易做到，因为当他们以捆柴为乐时，我们只需逃跑，让他们不看到我们就行了。

‘Ah!’ cried out his wife, ‘could you really take the children and lose them?’
“啊！”他的妻子叫道，“你真的能带走孩子并失去他们吗？”

In vain did her husband represent to her their great poverty; she would not consent to it. She was poor, but she was their mother.
她的丈夫徒劳地向她表明他们的巨大贫困。她不会同意的。她很穷，但她是他们的母亲。

However, having considered what a grief it would be to her to see them die of hunger, she consented, and went weeping to bed.
然而，考虑到看到他们饿死对她来说是多么悲痛，她同意了，然后哭着上床睡觉。

Little Thumb heard all they had said; for, hearing that they were talking business, he got up softly and slipped under his father’s seat, so as to hear without being seen. He went to bed again, but did not sleep a wink all the rest of the night, thinking of what he had to do. He got up early in the morning, and went to the brookside, where he filled his pockets full of small white pebbles, and then returned home. They all went out, but Little Thumb never told his brothers a word of what he knew.
小拇指听到了他们所说的一切；因为，听到他们在谈论正事，他轻轻地站起来，溜到父亲的座位下面，以便在不被看见的情况下听到他们的声音。他又上床睡觉了，但一整晚都没合眼，想着自己要做的事。他一大早起床，来到溪边，在口袋里装满了白色的小石子，然后就回家了。他们都出去了，但小拇指却没有将自己所知道的事情告诉哥哥们。

They went into a very thick forest, where they could not see one another at ten paces apart. The fagot-maker began to cut wood, and the children to gather up sticks to make fagots. Their father and mother, seeing them busy at their work, got away from them unbeknown and then all at once ran as fast as they could through a winding by-path.
他们走进了一片茂密的森林，相隔十步就看不到对方。柴火制造者开始砍柴，孩子们则开始收集木柴来制作柴火。爸爸妈妈见他们忙着干活，就不知不觉地离开了他们，然后一起飞快地跑过一条蜿蜒的小路。

When the children found they were alone, they began to cry with all their might. Little Thumb let them cry on, knowing very well how to get home again; for, as he came, he had dropped the little white pebbles he had in his pockets all along the way. Then he said to them, ‘Do not be afraid, my brothers,—father and mother have left us here, but I will lead you home again; only follow me.’
当孩子们发现只剩下他们一个人时，他们开始拼命哭泣。小拇指任由他们哭下去，很清楚怎样才能回家；因为他来的时候，口袋里的白色小石子一路上都掉在地上了。然后他对他们说：“不要害怕，我的兄弟们，爸爸和妈妈已经把我们留在这里了，但我会带你们回家；只跟着我。

They followed, and he brought them home by the very same way they had come into the forest. They dared not go in at first, but stood outside the door to listen to what their father and mother were saying.
他们跟在后面，他按照他们进入森林时的路线把他们带回家。他们一开始不敢进去，只是站在门外听爸爸妈妈说话。

The very moment the fagot-maker and his wife reached home the lord of the manor sent them ten crowns, which he had long owed them, and which they never hoped to see. This gave them new life, for the poor people were dying of hunger. The fagot-maker sent his wife to the butcher’s at once. As it was a long while since they had eaten, she bought thrice as much meat as was needed for supper for two people. When they had eaten, the woman said:—
柴匠和他的妻子一回到家，庄园主就给他们送来了十克朗，这是他长期以来欠他们的，但他们从来不希望看到这些。这给了他们新的生命，因为穷人正在挨饿。做柴火的人立刻把他的妻子送到了肉店。由于已经很久没有吃饭了，所以她买的肉是两个人晚餐所需量的三倍。他们吃完饭后，女人说道：

‘Alas! where are our poor children now? They would make a good feast of what we have left here; it was you, William, who wished to lose them. I told you we should repent of it. What are they now doing in the forest? Alas! perhaps the wolves have already eaten them up; you are very inhuman thus to have lost your children.’
'唉！我们可怜的孩子现在在哪里？他们会用我们留在这里的东西来盛宴；威廉，是你想失去他们。我告诉过你我们应该悔改。他们现在在森林里做什么？唉!也许狼已经把他们吃掉了；你太不人道了，竟然失去了你的孩子。”

The fagot-maker grew at last quite out of patience, for she repeated twenty times that he would repent of it, and that she was in the right. He threatened to beat her if she did not hold her tongue. The fagot-maker was, perhaps, more sorry than his wife, but she teased him so he could not endure it. She wept bitterly, saying:—
木柴制造者终于失去了耐心，因为她重复了二十遍，他会后悔的，而且她是对的。他威胁说，如果她不闭嘴，就要殴打她。或许，那个制造柴火的人比他的妻子更难过，但她却嘲笑他，让他无法忍受。她痛哭流涕地说：——

‘Alas! where are my children now, my poor children?’
'唉！我的孩子们现在在哪里，我可怜的孩子们？

She said this once so very loud that the children, who were at the door, heard her and cried out all together:—
她这句话说得很大声，门口的孩子们都听见了，齐声喊道：

‘Here we are! Here we are!’
'我们到了！我们到了！'

She ran immediately to let them in, and said as she embraced them:—
她立即​​跑过去让他们进来，拥抱着他们说道：

‘How happy I am to see you again, my dear children; you are very tired and very hungry, and, my poor Peter, you are covered with mud. Come in and let me clean you.’
“我很高兴再次见到你们，我亲爱的孩子们；你又累又饿，而且，我可怜的彼得，你浑身都是泥。进来让我给你打扫卫生。

Peter was her eldest son, whom she loved more than all the rest, because he was red haired, as she was herself.
彼得是她的长子，她比其他儿子都更爱他，因为他和她一样都是红头发。

They sat down to table, and ate with an appetite which pleased both father and mother, to whom they told how frightened they were in the forest, nearly all speaking at once. The good folk were delighted to see their children once more, and this joy continued while the ten crowns lasted. But when the money was all spent, they fell again into their former uneasiness, and resolved to lose their children again. And, that they might be the surer of doing it, they determined to take them much farther than before.
他们坐到餐桌旁，吃得津津有味，这让父亲和母亲都很满意，他们向父母讲述了他们在森林里有多么害怕，几乎所有人同时说话。善良的人们很高兴再次见到他们的孩子，这种喜悦在十克朗持续期间一直持续着。但当钱花完后，他们又陷入了之前的不安之中，决心再次失去孩子。而且，为了让他们更有把握做到这一点，他们决定比以前走得更远。

They could not talk of this so secretly but they were overheard by Little Thumb, who laid his plans to get out of the difficulty as he had done before; but, though he got up very early to go and pick up some little pebbles, he could not, for he found the house-door double-locked. He did not know what to do. Their father had given each of them a piece of bread for their breakfast. He reflected that he might make use of the bread instead of the pebbles, by throwing crumbs all along the way they should pass, and so he stuffed it in his pocket. Their father and mother led them into the thickest and most obscure part of the forest, and then, stealing away into a by-path, left them there. Little Thumb was not very much worried about it, for he thought he could easily find the way again by means of his bread, which he had scattered all along as he came; but he was very much surprised when he could not find a single crumb: the birds had come and eaten them all.
他们不能这么秘密地谈论这件事，但小拇指无意中听到了这些话，小拇指像以前一样制定了摆脱困境的计划；但是，尽管他很早就起床去捡一些小石子，但他却没能做到，因为他发现房门是双锁的。他不知道该怎么办。他们的父亲给了他们每人一块面包作为早餐。他想到可以用面包代替鹅卵石，把面包屑沿着它们应该经过的路扔掉，于是他把面包塞进口袋里。他们的父母带着他们走进森林最茂密、最隐蔽的地方，然后偷偷溜进一条小路，把他们留在那里。小拇指对此并不太担心，因为他认为凭借他来时撒的面包，他可以很容易地再次找到路。但当他找不到一点面包屑时，他感到非常惊讶：鸟儿来了，把它们全吃掉了。

They were now in great trouble; for the more they wandered, the deeper they went into the forest. Night now fell, and there arose a high wind, which filled them with fear. They fancied they heard on every side the howling of wolves coming to devour them. They scarce dared to speak or turn their heads. Then it rained very hard, which wetted them to the skin. Their feet slipped at every step, and they fell into the mud, covering their hands with it so that they knew not what to do with them.
他们现在遇到了大麻烦。他们越走，就进入森林越深。夜幕降临，狂风大作，让他们充满了恐惧。他们仿佛听到四面八方传来狼群的嚎叫声，准备吞噬他们。他们不敢说话，也不敢回头。后来下了一场大雨，把他们淋湿了。他们每走一步，脚都会打滑，陷入泥里，双手沾满泥浆，不知如何是好。

Little Thumb climbed up to the top of a tree, to see if he could discover anything. Looking on every side, he saw at last a glimmering light, like that of a candle, but a long way beyond the forest. He came down, and, when upon the ground, he could see it no more, which grieved him sadly. However, having walked for some time with his brothers toward that side on which he had seen the light, he discovered it again as he came out of the wood.
小拇指爬到了树顶上，想看看能不能发现什么。向四周看去，他终于看到了微弱的光芒，就像蜡烛的光芒，但距离森林很远。他下来了，当他落地时，他再也看不到它了，这让他感到悲伤。然而，当他和兄弟们朝他看到光的那一边走了一段时间后，当他走出树林时，他又发现了光。

They arrived at last at the house where this candle was, not without many frights; for very often they lost sight of it, which happened every time they came into a hollow. They knocked at the door, and a good woman came and opened it.
他们终于到达了这支蜡烛所在的房子，心里不免有些惊慌。因为他们常常会看不到它，每次他们进入洼地时都会发生这种情况。他们敲了敲门，一个好心的女人过来开门。

She asked them what they wanted. Little Thumb told her they were poor children who were lost in the forest, and desired to lodge there for charity’s sake. The woman, seeing them all so very pretty, began to weep and said to them: ‘Alas! poor babies, where do you come from? Do you know that this house belongs to a cruel Ogre who eats little children?’
她问他们想要什么。小拇指告诉她，他们是在森林里迷路的可怜的孩子，为了慈善事业，想寄宿在那里。那妇人见他们都那么漂亮，就哭起来，对他们说：‘唉！可怜的宝宝们，你们从哪里来？你知道这所房子属于一个残忍的食人魔，他吃小孩子吗？

‘Alas! dear madam,’ answered Little Thumb (who, with his brothers, was trembling in every limb), ‘what shall we do? The wolves of the forest surely will devour us to-night if you refuse us shelter in your house; and so we would rather the gentleman should eat us. Perhaps he may take pity upon us if you will be pleased to ask him to do so.’
'唉！亲爱的女士，”小拇指回答道（他和他的兄弟们四肢发抖），“我们该怎么办？如果你不让我们在你家里避难的话，今晚森林里的狼肯定会把我们吃掉的。所以我们宁愿那位绅士吃掉我们。如果你愿意请他这样做的话，也许他会怜悯我们。

The Ogre’s wife, who believed she could hide them from her husband till morning, let them come in, and took them to warm themselves at a very good fire; for there was a whole sheep roasting for the Ogre’s supper.
食人魔的妻子相信她可以把他们藏起来，不让丈夫知道，直到早上，所以让他们进来，并带他们在篝火旁取暖。因为食人魔的晚餐正在烤一整只羊。

As they began to warm themselves they heard three or four great raps at the door; this was the Ogre, who was come home. His wife quickly hid them under the bed and went to open the door. The Ogre at once asked if supper was ready and the wine drawn, and then sat himself down to table. The sheep was as yet all raw, but he liked it the better for that. He sniffed about to the right and left, saying:—
当他们开始取暖时，他们听到三四声重重的敲门声。这就是食人魔，他回家了。妻子连忙把它们藏到床底下，然后去开门。食人魔立即询问晚饭是否准备好，酒是否已斟好，然后坐到餐桌旁。羊还都是生的，但他因此更喜欢它。他左右嗅了嗅，说道：

‘I smell fresh meat.’
“我闻到了新鲜的肉味。”

‘What you smell,’ said his wife, ‘must be the calf which I have just now killed and flayed.’
“你闻到的味道，”他的妻子说道，“一定是我刚刚宰杀并剥皮的小牛。”

‘I smell fresh meat, I tell you once more,’ replied the Ogre, looking crossly at his wife, ‘and there is something here which I do not understand.’
“我闻到了新鲜的肉味，我再告诉你一次，”食人魔回答道，愤怒地看着他的妻子，“这里有些东西我不明白。”

As he spoke these words he got up from the table and went straight to the bed.
说完这句话，他就从桌子上起身，径直走到了床边。

‘Ah!’ said he, ‘that is how you would cheat me; I know not why I do not eat you, too; it is well for you that you are tough. Here is game, which comes very luckily to entertain three Ogres of my acquaintance who are to pay me a visit in a day or two.’
“啊！”他说，“你就是这样欺骗我的；我也不知道为什么我不吃掉你；你坚强对你有好处。这是野味，它很幸运地招待了我认识的三个食人魔，他们将在一两天内拜访我。

He dragged them out from under the bed, one by one. The poor children fell upon their knees and begged his pardon, but they had to do with one of the most cruel of Ogres, who, far from having any pity on them, was already devouring them in his mind, and told his wife they would be delicate eating when she had made a good sauce.
他把它们从床底下一一拖了出来。可怜的孩子们跪下请求他的原谅，但他们面对的是最残忍的食人魔之一，食人魔对他们毫无怜悯之心，已经在他的脑海中吞噬了他们，并告诉他的妻子他们会当她调好酱汁后，吃得要精致。

He then took a great knife, and, coming up to these poor children, sharpened it upon a great whetstone which he held in his left hand. He had already taken hold of one of them when his wife said to him:—
然后他拿起一把大刀，走到这些可怜的孩子面前，用左手握着的一块大磨刀石磨刀。当他的妻子对他说：——时，他已经握住了其中一张。

‘What need you do it now? Will you not have time enough to-morrow?’
‘你现在需要做什么？你明天时间不够吗？

‘Hold your prating,’ said the Ogre; ‘they will eat the tenderer.’
“别胡言乱语了，”食人魔说道。 “他们会吃嫩的。”

‘But you have so much meat already,’ replied his wife; ‘here are a calf, two sheep, and half a pig.’
“但是你已经有这么多肉了，”他的妻子回答道。 “这是一头牛犊、两只羊和半头猪。”

‘That is true,’ said the Ogre; ‘give them a good supper that they may not grow thin, and put them to bed.’
“确实如此，”食人魔说道。 “给他们一顿丰盛的晚餐，免得他们变瘦，然后让他们上床睡觉。”

The good woman was overjoyed at this, and gave them a good supper; but they were so much afraid that they could not eat. As for the Ogre, he sat down again to drink, being highly pleased that he had the wherewithal to treat his friends. He drank a dozen glasses more than ordinary, which got up into his head and obliged him to go to bed.
好心的妇人听了非常高兴，给他们准备了一顿丰盛的晚餐。但他们非常害怕，不敢吃东西。至于食人魔，他又坐下来喝酒，很高兴自己有足够的钱来招待他的朋友们。他比平常多喝了十几杯，这让他脑子里嗡嗡作响，迫使他上床睡觉。

The Ogre had seven daughters, who were still little children. These young Ogresses had all of them very fine complexions; but they all had little gray eyes, quite round, hooked noses, a very large mouth, and very long, sharp teeth, set far apart. They were not as yet wicked, but they promised well to be, for they had already bitten little children.
食人魔有七个女儿，她们还是小孩子。这些年轻的女妖们个个肤色都非常好。但他们都有灰色的小眼睛，圆圆的鹰钩鼻，一张很大的嘴，牙齿又长又尖，间隔很远。他们还没有邪恶，但他们肯定会邪恶，因为他们已经咬过小孩子了。

They had been put to bed early, all seven in one bed, with every one a crown of gold upon her head. There was in the same chamber a bed of the like size, and the Ogre’s wife put the seven little boys into this bed, after which she went to bed herself.
他们很早就被送上床睡觉了，七个人睡在一张床上，每个人头上都戴着一顶金冠。同一个房间里有一张同样大小的床，食人魔的妻子把七个小男孩放进了这张床上，然后她自己也上床睡觉了。

Little Thumb, who had observed that the Ogre’s daughters had crowns of gold upon their heads, and was afraid lest the Ogre should repent his not killing them that evening, got up about midnight, and, taking his brothers’ bonnets and his own, went very softly and put them upon the heads of the seven little Ogresses, after having taken off their crowns of gold, which he put upon his own head and his brothers’, so that the Ogre might take them for his daughters, and his daughters for the little boys whom he wanted to kill.
小拇指发现食人魔的女儿们头上都戴着金冠，生怕食人魔会后悔那天晚上没有杀掉她们，于是半夜左右起床，拿走了他兄弟们的帽子和自己的帽子，走了出去。非常轻柔地把它们戴在七个小食人魔的头上，然后摘下她们的金冠，戴在自己和兄弟们的头上，这样食人魔就可以把她们当作他的女儿，也把他们的女儿当作他的女儿。他想杀死的小男孩。

Things turned out just as he had thought; for the Ogre, waking about midnight, regretted that he had deferred till morning to do that which he might have done overnight, and jumped quickly out of bed, taking his great knife.
事情的发展正如他所想的那样；因为食人魔在半夜醒来，后悔自己推迟到早上才去做他本来可以在一夜之间完成的事情，然后迅速从床上跳起来，拿起他的大刀。

‘Let us see,’ said he, ‘how our little rogues do, and not make two jobs of the matter.’
“让我们看看，”他说，“我们的小坏蛋是怎么做的，不要把这件事当作两件事。”

He then went up, groping all the way, into his daughters’ chamber; and, coming to the bed where the little boys lay, and who were all fast asleep, except Little Thumb, who was terribly afraid when he found the Ogre fumbling about his head, as he had done about his brothers’, he felt the golden crowns, and said:—
然后他一路摸索着上楼，进入了女儿们的房间。当他来到小男孩们躺着的床边时，他们都睡得很熟，除了小拇指，当他发现食人魔在他的头上摸索时，他感到非常害怕，就像他对他兄弟们的头所做的那样，他感觉到金色的光芒。皇冠，并说道：

‘I should have made a fine piece of work of it, truly; it is clear I drank too much last night.’
“我确实应该把它做成一件出色的作品；很明显我昨晚喝得太多了。”

Then he went to the bed where the girls lay, and, having found the boys’ little bonnets:—
然后他走到女孩们躺着的床边，找到了男孩们的小帽子：

‘Ah!’ said he, ‘my merry lads, are you there? Let us work boldly.’
“啊！”他说道，“我快乐的小伙子们，你们在吗？让我们大胆地工作吧。

And saying these words, without more ado, he cruelly murdered all his seven daughters. Well pleased with what he had done, he went to bed again.
说完这句话，他毫不犹豫地残忍地杀害了自己的七个女儿。他对自己所做的很满意，又上床睡觉了。

So soon as Little Thumb heard the Ogre snore, he waked his brothers, and bade them put on their clothes quickly and follow him. They stole softly into the garden and got over the wall. They ran about, all night, trembling all the while, without knowing which way they went.
小拇指一听到食人魔的鼾声，就叫醒了兄弟们，吩咐他们赶紧穿好衣服，跟着自己走。他们悄悄地溜进花园，翻过围墙。他们整夜奔跑，浑身颤抖，不知道该往哪边走。

The Ogre, when he woke, said to his wife: ‘Go upstairs and dress those young rascals who came here last night.’ The Ogress was very much surprised at this goodness of her husband, not dreaming after what manner she should dress them; but, thinking that he had ordered her to go up and put on their clothes, she went, and was horrified when she perceived her seven daughters all dead.
食人魔醒来后，对他的妻子说：“上楼去给昨晚来这里的那些小流氓穿衣服。”食人魔对她丈夫的善良感到非常惊讶，并没有梦想她应该给他们穿什么衣服；但是，她以为他命令她上去穿上衣服，就去了，当她发现七个女儿都死了时，她感到震惊。

She began by fainting away, as was only natural in such a case. The Ogre, fearing his wife was too long in doing what he had ordered, went up himself to help her. He was no less amazed than his wife at this frightful spectacle.
她一开始就晕倒了，在这种情况下这是很自然的。食人魔担心他的妻子太久没有按照他的命令去做，于是亲自上楼去帮助她。对于这一可怕的景象，他和他的妻子一样感到惊讶。

‘Ah! what have I done?’ cried he. ‘The wretches shall pay for it, and that instantly.’
'啊！ “我做了什么？”他喊道。 “那些不幸的人将会付出代价，而且是立即的。”

He threw a pitcher of water upon his wife’s face, and having brought her to herself, ‘Give me quickly,’ cried he, ‘my seven-leagued boots, that I may go and catch them.’
他把一壶水泼在妻子脸上，等她清醒过来后，他喊道：“快把我的七层靴子给我，我好去接住它们。”

He went out into the country, and, after running in all directions, he came at last into the very road where the poor children were, and not above a hundred paces from their father’s house. They espied the Ogre, who went at one step from mountain to mountain, and over rivers as easily as the narrowest brooks. Little Thumb, seeing a hollow rock near the place where they were, hid his brothers in it, and crowded into it himself, watching always what would become of the Ogre.
他到了乡间，四散奔逃，终于来到了那些可怜的孩子们所在的那条路，距离他们父亲的房子不到一百步。他们发现了食人魔，他一步一步地从一座山走到另一座山，穿过河流就像穿过最狭窄的小溪一样轻松。小拇指看到他们所在的地方附近有一块空心的岩石，就把他的兄弟们藏在里面，自己也挤进去，时刻关注着食人魔的下场。

The Ogre, who found himself tired with his long and fruitless journey (for these boots of seven leagues greatly taxed the wearer), had a great mind to rest himself, and, by chance, went to sit down upon the rock in which the little boys had hidden themselves. As he was worn out with fatigue, he fell asleep, and, after reposing himself some time, began to snore so frightfully that the poor children were no less afraid of him than when he held up his great knife and was going to take their lives. Little Thumb was not so much frightened as his brothers, and told them that they should run away at once toward home while the Ogre was asleep so soundly, and that they need not be in any trouble about him. They took his advice, and got home quickly.
食人魔发现自己厌倦了漫长而徒劳的旅程（因为这些七里格的靴子对穿着者来说是极大的负担），他非常想休息一下，并且偶然走到了那块小石头上坐下来。男孩们把自己藏起来了。当他疲惫不堪时，他睡着了，休息了一段时间后，开始打鼾，打得那么可怕，以至于可怜的孩子们对他的恐惧丝毫不亚于他举起大刀要结束他们的生命。 。小拇指不像他的兄弟们那么害怕，并告诉他们，趁食人魔睡得这么香，他们应该立即逃回家，不要为他添麻烦。他们听取了他的建议，很快就回家了。

Little Thumb then went close to the Ogre, pulled off his boots gently, and put them on his own legs. The boots were very long and large, but as they were fairy boots, they had the gift of becoming big or little, according to the legs of those who wore them; so that they fitted his feet and legs as well as if they had been made for him. He went straight to the Ogre’s house, where he saw his wife crying bitterly for the loss of her murdered daughters.
小拇指走到食人魔身边，轻轻地脱下食人魔的靴子，穿在自己的腿上。靴子又长又大，但由于它们是仙女靴，它们有根据穿着它们的人的腿而变大或变小的天赋；这样它们就适合他的脚和腿，就好像它们是为他量身定做的一样。他直接去了食人魔的家，在那里他看到他的妻子因失去被谋杀的女儿而痛哭。

‘Your husband,’ said Little Thumb, ‘is in very great danger, for he has been taken by a gang of thieves, who have sworn to kill him if he does not give them all his gold and silver. At the very moment they held their daggers at his throat he perceived me and begged me to come and tell you the condition he was in, and to say that you should give me all he has of value, without retaining any one thing; for otherwise they will kill him without mercy. As his case is very pressing, he desired me to make use of his seven-leagued boots, which you see I have on, so that I might make the more haste and that I might show you that I do not impose upon you.’
“你的丈夫，”小拇指说，“他已经被一伙盗贼绑架了，他们发誓如果他不把所有的金银都交给他们，就要杀了他。就在他们把匕首架在他喉咙上的那一刻，他发现了我，恳求我过来告诉你他的情况，并说你应该把他所有有价值的东西都给我，不要保留任何东西；否则他们会毫不留情地杀死他。由于他的情况非常紧急，他希望我使用他的七联盟靴子，你看我穿着这双靴子，这样我就可以更加匆忙，并向你表明我不会强加给你。

The good woman, being greatly frightened, gave him all she had; for this Ogre was a very good husband, though he ate up little children. Little Thumb, having thus got all the Ogre’s money, came home to his father’s house, where he was received with abundance of joy.
善良的女人非常害怕，把她所有的都给了他。因为这个食人魔是一个非常好的丈夫，尽管他吃掉了小孩子。小拇指就这样拿到了食人魔所有的钱，回到了他父亲的家，在那里他受到了极大的欢乐。

There are many people who do not agree in regard to this act of Little Thumb’s, and pretend that he never robbed the Ogre at all, and that he only thought he might very justly take off his seven-leagued boots because he made no other use of them but to run after little children. These folks affirm that they are very well assured of this, because they have drunk and eaten often at the fagot-maker’s house. They declare that when Little Thumb had taken off the Ogre’s boots he went to Court, where he was informed that they were very much in trouble about a certain army, which was two hundred leagues off, and anxious as to the success of a battle. He went, they say, to the King and told him that if he desired it, he would bring him news from the army before night.
对于小拇指的这种行为，有很多人不以为然，并假装他根本没有抢劫过食人魔，他只是觉得自己可以很正义地脱下七联盟靴子，因为他没有别的用处。他们只是为了追赶小孩子。这些人声称，他们对此非常有把握，因为他们经常在制柴者家里喝酒、吃饭。他们宣称，当小拇指脱下食人魔的靴子后，他去了宫廷，在那里他被告知，他们因距离两百里远的一支军队而陷入困境，并且急于一场战斗的成功。他们说，他去了国王那里，告诉他，如果他愿意，他会在晚上之前给他带来军队的消息。

The King promised him a great sum of money if he succeeded. Little Thumb returned that very same night with the news; and, this first expedition causing him to be known, he earned as much as he wished, for the King paid him very well for carrying his orders to the army. Many ladies employed him also to carry messages, from which he made much money. After having for some time carried on the business of a messenger and gained thereby great wealth, he went home to his father, and it is impossible to express the joy of his family. He placed them all in comfortable circumstances, bought places for his father and brothers, and by that means settled them very handsomely in the world, while he successfully continued to make his own way.
国王许诺如果他成功的话将得到一大笔钱。当天晚上，小拇指就带着这个消息回来了。第一次远征使他出名，他得到了他想要的一切，因为国王为他向军队执行命令而付给了他丰厚的报酬。许多女士还雇用他传递信息，他从中赚了很多钱。在从事了一段时间的使者生意并由此获得了巨额财富之后，他回到了父亲身边，他的家庭的喜悦是无法表达的。他把他们安置在舒适的环境中，为他的父亲和兄弟买了地方，通过这种方式，让他们在这个世界上过得很好，同时他成功地继续走自己的路。

THE MASTER CAT, OR PUSS IN BOOTS.
猫大师，或穿靴子的猫。

Once upon a time there was a miller who left no more riches to the three sons he had than his mill, his ass, and his cat. The division was soon made. Neither the lawyer nor the attorney was sent for. They would soon have eaten up all the poor property. The eldest had the mill, the second the ass, and the youngest nothing but the cat.
从前，有一个磨坊主，他留给三个儿子的财富，除了他的磨坊、他的驴子和他的猫之外，没有更多。很快就进行了划分。律师和律师都没有被请来。他们很快就会吃掉所有可怜的财产。老大有磨坊，老二有驴，老三除了猫什么也没有。

The youngest, as we can understand, was quite unhappy at having so poor a share.
我们可以理解，最小的孩子对于分得这么少感到非常不高兴。

‘My brothers,’ said he, ‘may get their living handsomely enough by joining their stocks together; but, for my part, when I have eaten up my cat, and made me a muff of his skin, I must die of hunger.’
“我的兄弟们，”他说，“通过把他们的股票联合起来，可以过上富裕的生活；但是，就我而言，当我吃掉我的猫，并把他的皮变成我的一部分时，我一定会饿死。

The Cat, who heard all this, without appearing to take any notice, said to him with a grave and serious air:—
猫听了这一切，却没有表现出丝毫在意，神情严肃地对他说：

‘Do not thus afflict yourself, my master; you have nothing else to do but to give me a bag, and get a pair of boots made for me, that I may scamper through the brambles, and you shall see that you have not so poor a portion in me as you think.’
‘我的主人，不要这样折磨自己；你别无选择，只能给我一个袋子，给我买一双为我做的靴子，这样我就可以在荆棘丛中奔跑，你就会发现我身上的你并不像你想象的那么可怜。

Though the Cat’s master did not think much of what he said, he had seen him play such cunning tricks to catch rats and mice—hanging himself by the heels, or hiding himself in the meal, to make believe he was dead—that he did not altogether despair of his helping him in his misery. When the Cat had what he asked for, he booted himself very gallantly, and putting his bag about his neck, he held the strings of it in his two forepaws, and went into a warren where was a great number of rabbits. He put bran and sow-thistle into his bag, and, stretching out at length, as if he were dead, he waited for some young rabbits, not yet acquainted with the deceits of the world, to come and rummage his bag for what he had put into it.
虽然猫的主人并没有多想他说的话，但他亲眼目睹了猫捉老鼠的狡猾伎俩——用脚后跟上吊，或者藏在饭菜里，假装自己已经死了——所以他就这么做了。并不完全对他在苦难中帮助他感到绝望。当猫得到了他想要的东西后，他非常英勇地踢了自己的脚，把袋子挂在脖子上，用两只前爪抓住了袋子的绳子，走进了一个有很多兔子的窝里。他把麸皮和苦菜蓟放进袋子里，然后，他像死了一样，伸长了身体，等待一些尚未熟悉世界的欺骗的小兔子过来翻箱倒柜，寻找他想要的东西。已经投入其中。

Scarcely was he settled but he had what he wanted. A rash and foolish young rabbit jumped into his bag, and Monsieur Puss, immediately drawing close the strings, took him and killed him at once. Proud of his prey, he went with it to the palace, and asked to speak with the King. He was shown upstairs into his Majesty’s apartment, and, making a low bow to the King, he said:—
他刚刚安顿下来，但他已经得到了他想要的东西。一只鲁莽而愚蠢的小兔子跳进了他的包里，猫先生立即拉紧绳子，抓住了他，并立即杀死了他。他为自己的猎物感到自豪，带着猎物来到宫殿，要求与国王交谈。他被带上楼，进入国王陛下的寓所，向国王深深鞠了一躬，说道：

‘I have brought you, sire, a rabbit which my noble Lord, the Master of Carabas’ (for that was the title which Puss was pleased to give his master) ‘has commanded me to present to your Majesty from him.’
“我给您带来了一只兔子，陛下，我尊贵的勋爵，卡拉巴斯的主人”（因为这是猫很高兴给他的主人起的头衔）“命令我将他送给陛下。”

‘Tell thy master,’ said the King, ‘that I thank him, and that I am pleased with his gift.’
“告诉你的主人，”国王说，“我感谢他，并且对他的礼物很满意。”

Another time he went and hid himself among some standing corn, still holding his bag open; and when a brace of partridges ran into it, he drew the strings, and so caught them both. He then went and made a present of these to the King, as he had done before of the rabbit which he took in the warren. The King, in like manner, received the partridges with great pleasure, and ordered his servants to reward him.
还有一次，他躲在一些竖立的玉米中间，袋子仍然打开着。当一群鹧鸪跑进水里时，他拉动绳子，把它们都捉住了。然后他去把这些东西送给了国王，就像他之前对他在窝里养的兔子所做的那样。国王也同样非常高兴地接受了鹧鸪，并命令他的仆人奖励他。

The Cat continued for two or three months thus to carry his Majesty, from time to time, some of his master’s game. One day when he knew that the King was to take the air along the riverside, with his daughter, the most beautiful princess in the world, he said to his master:—
猫就这样持续了两三个月，时不时地为陛下带来一些他主人的游戏。有一天，当他知道国王要带着他的女儿，世界上最美丽的公主，沿着河边散步时，他对他的主人说：

‘If you will follow my advice, your fortune is made. You have nothing else to do but go and bathe in the river, just at the spot I shall show you, and leave the rest to me.’
‘如果你听从我的建议，你的财富就会发财。你没什么事可做，只能去河里洗澡，就在我带你去的地方，剩下的就交给我了。”

The Marquis of Carabas did what the Cat advised him to, without knowing what could be the use of doing it. While he was bathing, the King passed by, and the Cat cried out with all his might:—
卡拉巴斯侯爵按照猫的建议做了，却不知道这样做有什么用处。当他洗澡的时候，国王经过，猫用力叫道：

‘Help! help! My Lord the Marquis of Carabas is drowning!’
'帮助！帮助！卡拉巴斯侯爵大人快淹死了！”

At this noise the King put his head out of the coach window, and seeing the Cat who had so often brought him game, he commanded his guards to run immediately to the assistance of his Lordship the Marquis of Carabas.
听到这声响动，国王把头伸出车窗外，看到那只经常给他带来猎物的猫，他命令卫兵立即跑去帮助卡拉巴斯侯爵大人。

While they were drawing the poor Marquis out of the river, the Cat came up to the coach and told the King that, while his master was bathing, there came by some rogues, who ran off with his clothes, though he had cried out, ‘Thieves! thieves!’ several times, as loud as he could. The cunning Cat had hidden the clothes under a great stone. The King immediately commanded the officers of his wardrobe to run and fetch one of his best suits for the Lord Marquis of Carabas.
当他们把可怜的侯爵从河里拉出来的时候，猫走到马车跟前，告诉国王，当他的主人洗澡的时候，有一些盗贼来了，他们抢走了他的衣服，尽管国王大声喊道： '小偷！小偷！”好几次，他尽可能大声。狡猾的猫把衣服藏在一块大石头下面。国王立即命令他的衣柜里的官员跑去为卡拉巴斯侯爵勋爵取一套他最好的西装。

The King was extremely polite to him, and as the fine clothes he had given him set off his good looks (for he was well made and handsome), the King’s daughter found him very much to her liking, and the Marquis of Carabas had no sooner cast two or three respectful and somewhat tender glances than she fell in love with him to distraction. The King would have him come into the coach and take part in the airing. The Cat, overjoyed to see his plan begin to succeed, marched on before, and, meeting with some countrymen, who were mowing a meadow, he said to them:—
国王对他非常有礼貌，而且他送给他的精美衣服衬托出他英俊的外表（因为他体格精良、英俊），国王的女儿很喜欢他，而卡拉巴斯侯爵则没有。只要向他投上两三眼恭敬而略显温柔的目光，她就会彻底爱上他。国王会让他坐上马车并参加播出。猫看到自己的计划开始成功，欣喜若狂，继续前行，遇到了一些正在割草的同胞，他对他们说：

‘Good people, you who are mowing, if you do not tell the King that the meadow you mow belongs to my Lord Marquis of Carabas, you shall be chopped as small as herbs for the pot.’
“好心的人们，你们这些正在割草的人，如果你们不告诉国王，你们割的草地属于我的卡拉巴斯侯爵大人，你们就会被砍得像锅里的香草一样小。”

The King did not fail to ask the mowers to whom the meadow they were mowing belonged.
国王并没有忘记询问割草者他们正在割草的草地属于谁。

‘To my Lord Marquis of Carabas,’ answered they all together, for the Cat’s threat had made them afraid.
“卡拉巴斯侯爵大人。”他们齐声回答，因为猫的威胁让他们感到害怕。

‘You have a good property there,’ said the King to the Marquis of Carabas.
“你那里有很好的财产，”国王对卡拉巴斯侯爵说。

‘You see, sire,’ said the Marquis, ‘this is a meadow which never fails to yield a plentiful harvest every year.’
“您瞧，陛下，”侯爵说道，“这片草地年年丰收。”

The Master Cat, who went still on before, met with some reapers, and said to them:—
之前还在继续前行的猫主人，遇到了一些收割者，对他们说：

‘Good people, you who are reaping, if you do not say that all this corn belongs to the Marquis of Carabas, you shall be chopped as small as herbs for the pot.’
“好心的人们，你们这些正在收割的人，如果你们不说所有这些谷物都属于卡拉巴斯侯爵，你们就会被砍得像锅里的香草一样小。”

The King, who passed by a moment after, wished to know to whom belonged all that corn, which he then saw.
过了一会儿，国王经过，他想知道他看到的所有谷物是谁的。

‘To my Lord Marquis of Carabas,’ replied the reapers, and the King was very well pleased with it, as well as the Marquis, whom he congratulated thereupon. The Master Cat, who went always before, said the same thing to all he met, and the King was astonished at the vast estates of my Lord Marquis of Carabas.
“致我的卡拉巴斯侯爵大人。”收割者回答道，国王对此非常满意，侯爵也对此表示祝贺。猫主人总是走在前面，对他遇到的所有人都说了同样的话，国王对我的卡拉巴斯侯爵大人的广阔庄园感到惊讶。

Monsieur Puss came at last to a stately castle, the master of which was an Ogre, the richest ever known; for all the lands which the King had then passed through belonged to this castle. The Cat, who had taken care to inform himself who this Ogre was and what he could do, asked to speak with him, saying he could not pass so near his castle without having the honor of paying his respects to him.
猫先生终于来到了一座富丽堂皇的城堡，城堡的主人是一个食人魔，他是有史以来最富有的人。因为国王当时所经过的所有土地都属于这座城堡。猫已经小心翼翼地告诉自己这个食人魔是谁以及他能做什么，他要求与他交谈，并说他不能在如此靠近他的城堡的情况下向他表示敬意。

The Ogre received him as civilly as an Ogre could do, and made him sit down.
食人魔以食人魔所能做到的礼貌接待了他，并让他坐下。

‘I have been assured,’ said the Cat, ‘that you have the gift of being able to change yourself into all sorts of creatures you have a mind to; that you can, for example, transform yourself into a lion, or elephant, and the like.’
“我确信，”猫说，“你有能力把自己变成各种你想变成的生物；例如，你可以把自己变成狮子、大象等。

‘That is true,’ answered the Ogre, roughly; ‘and to convince you, you shall see me now become a lion.’
“确实如此，”食人魔粗鲁地回答道。 “为了让你相信，你现在会看到我变成一头狮子。”

Puss was so terrified at the sight of a lion so near him that he immediately climbed into the gutter, not without much trouble and danger, because of his boots, which were of no use at all to him for walking upon the tiles. A little while after, when Puss saw that the Ogre had resumed his natural form, he came down, and owned he had been very much frightened.
猫看到一头狮子离他如此之近，他感到非常害怕，他立即爬进了排水沟，不无麻烦和危险，因为他的靴子对他在瓷砖上行走根本没有用处。过了一会儿，当猫看到食人魔恢复了自然形态时，他下来了，承认自己非常害怕。

‘I have, moreover, been informed,’ said the Cat, ‘but I know not how to believe it, that; you have also the power to take on you the shape of the smallest animals; for example, to change yourself into a rat or a mouse, but I must own to you I take this to be impossible.’
“此外，我还被告知，”猫说，“但我不知道如何相信；你也有能力呈现出最小动物的形状；例如，把自己变成一只老鼠，但我必须向你承认，我认为这是不可能的。

‘Impossible!’ cried the Ogre; ‘you shall see.’ And at the same time he changed himself into a mouse, and began to run about the floor. Puss no sooner perceived this than he fell upon him and ate him up.
“不可能！”食人魔喊道。 “你会看到的。”与此同时，他把自己变成了一只老鼠，开始在地板上跑来跑去。猫一发现这一点，就扑向他并把他吃掉了。

Meanwhile, the King, who saw, as he passed, this fine castle of the Ogre’s, had a mind to go into it. Puss, who heard the noise of his Majesty’s coach coming over the drawbridge, ran out, and said to the King, ‘Your Majesty is welcome to this castle of my Lord Marquis of Carabas.’
与此同时，国王路过时看到了食人魔的这座精美城堡，决定进去看看。猫听见国王陛下的马车驶过吊桥的声音，跑出去对国王说：“欢迎陛下来到卡拉巴斯侯爵大人的这座城堡。”

‘What! my Lord Marquis,’ cried the King, ‘and does this castle also belong to you? There can be nothing finer than this courtyard and all the stately buildings which surround it; let us see the interior, if you please.’
'什么！侯爵大人，”国王喊道，“这座城堡也是您的吗？没有什么比这个庭院和周围所有庄严的建筑更好的了。如果方便的话，让我们看看内部。”

The Marquis gave his hand to the young Princess, and followed the King, who went first. They passed into the great hall, where they found a magnificent collation, which the Ogre had prepared for his friends, who were that very day to visit him, but dared not to enter, knowing the King was there. His Majesty, charmed with the good qualities of my Lord of Carabas, as was also his daughter, who had fallen violently in love with him, and seeing the vast estate he possessed, said to him:—
侯爵向年轻的公主伸出手，跟着国王走在前面。他们走进大厅，在那里他们发现了一份华丽的整理，这是食人魔为他的朋友们准备的，他们当天来拜访他，但知道国王就在那里而不敢进去。国王陛下被我的卡拉巴斯勋爵的优良品质迷住了，他的女儿也深深地爱上了他，并看到他拥有的巨大财产，对他说：

‘It will be owing to yourself only, my Lord Marquis, if you are not my son-in-law.’
“侯爵大人，如果你不是我的女婿，那只能怪你自己了。”

The Marquis, with low bows, accepted the honor which his Majesty conferred upon him, and forthwith that very same day married the Princess.
侯爵低头鞠躬，接受了陛下授予他的荣誉，并于当天与公主结婚。

Puss became a great lord, and never ran after mice any more except for his diversion.
猫成了一位伟大的领主，除了消遣之外，再也没有追过老鼠了。

RIQUET WITH THE TUFT.
Riquet 与簇绒。

Once upon a time there was a Queen who had a son so ugly and so misshapen that it was long disputed whether he had human form. A fairy who was at his birth said, however, that he would be very amiable for all that, since he would have uncommon good sense. She even added that it would be in his power, by virtue of a gift she had just then given him, to bestow as much sense as he pleased on the person he loved the best. All this somewhat comforted the poor Queen. It is true that this child no sooner began to talk than he said a thousand pretty things, and in all his actions there was an intelligence that was quite charming. I forgot to tell you that he was born with a little tuft of hair upon his head, which made them call him Riquet[1] with the Tuft, for Riquet was the family name.
从前，有一位王后，她有一个儿子，他的儿子丑陋且畸形，以至于人们长期以来一直争论他是否具有人形。然而，他出生时的一位仙女说，他会对此非常和蔼可亲，因为他有非凡的判断力。她甚至补充说，凭借她刚刚送给他的一份礼物，他有能力将自己喜欢的一切赋予他最爱的人。这一切让可怜的女王多少有些安慰。确实，这孩子一开口说话，就说了一千句好听的话，而且他的一举一动都透着一股聪明，非常迷人。我忘了告诉你，他出生时头上就有一小簇头发，这使得他们称他为“Riquet”[1]，带有簇绒，因为“Riquet”是家族姓氏。

[Footnote 1: R[=e]k[=a].]
[脚注 1：R[=e]k[=a]。]

Seven or eight years later the Queen of a neighboring kingdom had two daughters who were twins. The first born of these was more beautiful than the day; whereat the Queen was so very glad that those present were afraid that her excess of joy would do her harm. The same fairy who was present at the birth of little Riquet with the Tuft was here also, and, to moderate the Queen’s gladness, she declared that this little Princess should have no sense at all, but should be as stupid as she was pretty. This mortified the Queen extremely; but afterward she had a far greater sorrow, for the second daughter proved to be very ugly.
七、八年后，邻国的王后生了两个女儿，是双胞胎。其中第一个出生的比白天更美丽；女王非常高兴，以至于在场的人都担心她过度的喜悦会对她造成伤害。在小里奎特出生时出席的那位仙女也在这里，为了缓和女王的喜悦，她宣称这位小公主应该完全没有理智，而应该像她一样愚蠢和美丽。这让女王感到非常羞愧。但后来她的悲伤更大了，因为二女儿长得很丑。

‘Do not afflict yourself so much, madam,’ said the fairy. ‘Your daughter shall have her recompense; she shall have so great a portion of sense that the want of beauty will hardly be perceived.’
“女士，别这么折磨自己。”仙女说道。 ‘你的女儿将得到她的报应；她将拥有如此丰富的感知力，以至于人们很难察觉到她对美的缺乏。

‘God grant it,’ replied the Queen; ‘but is there no way to make the eldest, who is so pretty, have any sense?’
“愿上帝保佑，”女王回答道。 “可是有没有办法让这么漂亮的大小姐懂事呢？”

‘I can do nothing for her, madam, as to sense,’ answered the fairy, ‘but everything as to beauty; and as there is nothing I would not do for your satisfaction, I give her for gift that she shall have power to make handsome the person who shall best please her.’
仙女回答说：“女士，我能为她做任何关于感知的事，但关于美丽的一切。”为了让您满意，我会尽一切努力，所以我送给她一份礼物，让她有能力让最让她高兴的人变得英俊。

As these princesses grew up, their perfections grew with them. All the public talk was of the beauty of the elder and the rare good sense of the younger. It is true also that their defects increased considerably with their age. The younger visibly grew uglier and uglier, and the elder became every day more and more stupid: she either made no answer at all to what was asked her, or said something very silly. She was with all this so unhandy that she could not place four pieces of china upon the mantelpiece without breaking one of them, nor drink a glass of water without spilling half of it upon her clothes.
随着这些公主的成长，她们的完美也随之增长。所有的公众谈论都是关于长辈的美丽和年轻人罕见的良好判断力。确实，他们的缺陷随着年龄的增长而显着增加。看得出来，年轻的越来越丑了，而大的也一天天变得越来越愚蠢：她要么根本不回答她的问题，要么说了一些非常愚蠢的话。她对这一切感到非常不方便，以至于她无法将四件瓷器放在壁炉架上而不打破其中一件，也无法喝一杯水而不将一半的水洒在衣服上。

Although beauty is a very great advantage in young people, the younger sister was always the more preferred in society. People would indeed go first to the Beauty to look upon and admire her, but turn aside soon after to the Wit to hear a thousand most entertaining and agreeable things; and it was amazing to see, in less than a quarter of an hour’s time, the elder with not a soul near her, and the whole company crowding about the younger. The elder, dull as she was, could not fail to notice this; and without the slightest regret would have given all her beauty to have half her sister’s wit. The Queen, prudent as she was, could not help reproaching her several times for her stupidity, which almost made the poor Princess die of grief.
虽然美貌对于年轻人来说是一个很大的优势，但在社会上，妹妹总是更受青睐。人们确实会先去美人那里观看和欣赏她，但很快就会转向机智，聆听一千种最有趣和令人愉快的事情；令人惊奇的是，在不到一刻钟的时间里，年长的人在她身边一个人都没有，而整个公司都挤在年轻的周围。老大虽然愚钝，但她不可能没有注意到这一点。她宁愿放弃自己的全部美貌，换取她姐姐一半的智慧，也没有丝毫遗憾。王后虽然谨慎，却忍不住数次责备她的愚蠢，差点让可怜的公主悲痛欲绝。

One day, as she had hidden herself in a wood to bewail her misfortune, she saw coming to her a very disagreeable little man, but most magnificently dressed. This was the young Prince Riquet with the Tuft, who having fallen in love with her upon seeing her picture,—many of which were distributed all the world over,—had left his father’s kingdom to have the pleasure of seeing and talking with her. Overjoyed to find her thus alone, he addressed himself to her with all imaginable politeness and respect. Having observed, after he had paid her the ordinary compliments, that she was extremely melancholy, he said to her:—
有一天，当她躲在树林里哀悼自己的不幸时，她看到一个非常令人讨厌的小个子男人向她走来，但他衣着华丽。这是年轻的留着一簇头发的里凯王子，他在看到她的照片后爱上了她——其中许多照片分布在世界各地——离开了他父亲的王国，有幸见到她并与她交谈。发现她孤身一人，他欣喜若狂，以可想象的礼貌和尊重对她说话。在他对她进行了一般的恭维之后，他发现她非常忧郁，于是对她说：

‘I cannot comprehend, madam, how a person so beautiful as you are can be so sorrowful as you seem to be; for though I can boast of having seen a great number of exquisitely charming ladies, I can say that I never beheld any one whose beauty approaches yours.’
“我无法理解，女士，一个像您这样美丽的人怎么会像您看上去那么悲伤；因为虽然我可以夸耀自己见过很多精致迷人的女士，但我可以说，我从未见过任何一位的美丽能与你相媲美。

‘You are pleased to say so,’ answered the Princess, and here she stopped.
“你很高兴这么说，”公主回答道，说到这里她停了下来。

‘Beauty,’ replied Riquet with the Tuft, ‘is such a great advantage, that it ought to take place of all things besides; and since you possess this treasure, I can see nothing that can possibly very much afflict you.’
“美丽，”长着一簇头发的里凯答道，“这是一个巨大的优势，它应该取代除此之外的一切；既然你拥有这个宝藏，我看不出有什么可能让你感到非常痛苦。

‘I had far rather,’ cried the Princess, ‘be as ugly as you are, and have sense, than have the beauty I possess, and be as stupid as I am.’
“我宁愿像你一样丑陋但有理智，也不愿拥有我所拥有的美丽却像我一样愚蠢。”公主喊道。

‘There is nothing, madam,’ returned he, ‘shows more that we have good sense than to believe we have none; and it is the nature of that excellent quality that the more people have of it, the more they believe they want it.’
“夫人，”他回答道，“没有什么比相信我们没有明智的事更能表明我们有明智的判断力的了。”正是这种优秀品质的本质是，越多的人拥有它，他们就越相信自己想要它。

‘I do not know that,’ said the Princess; ‘but I know very well that I am very senseless, and that vexes me mightily.’
“我不知道，”公主说。 “但我很清楚，我很愚蠢，这让我非常烦恼。”

‘If that be all which troubles you, madam, I can very easily put an end to your affliction.’
“如果这就是您的烦恼，女士，我可以很容易地结束您的痛苦。”

‘And how will you do that?’ cried the Princess.
“那你要怎么做呢？”公主喊道。

‘I have the power, madam,’ replied Riquet with the Tuft, ‘to give to that person whom I love best as much good sense as can be had; and as you, madam, are that very person, it will be your fault only if you have not as great a share of it as any one living, provided you will be pleased to marry me.’
“我有权力，女士，”带着一簇头发的里凯回答道，“给我最爱的人尽可能多的理智；女士，你就是那个人，只有当你没有像任何活着的人一样多地分享它时，这才是你的错，只要你愿意嫁给我。

The Princess was quite confused, and answered not a word.
公主很困惑，没有回答任何一句话。

‘I see,’ replied Riquet with the Tuft, ‘that this proposal does not please you, and I do not wonder at it; but I will give you a whole year to consider it.’
“我明白了，”长着一簇头发的里凯答道，“这个提议你不高兴，我对此并不奇怪；但我会给你一整年的时间来考虑。

The Princess had so little sense and, at the same time, so great a longing to have some, that she imagined the end of that year would never come, so she accepted the proposal which was made her.
公主缺乏理智，同时又非常渴望拥有一些理智，以至于她想象那一年永远不会到来，所以她接受了向她提出的建议。

She had no sooner promised Riquet with the Tuft that she would marry him on that day twelvemonth than she found herself quite otherwise than she was before: she had an incredible faculty of speaking whatever she had in her mind in a polite, easy, and natural manner.
她刚刚向里奎特许诺，她会在十二月的那一天嫁给他，她就发现自己与以前完全不同了：她有一种令人难以置信的能力，能以礼貌、轻松和自然的方式说出自己的想法。方式。

She began that moment a very gallant conversation with Riquet with the Tuft, which she kept up at such a rate that Riquet with the Tuft believed he had given her more sense than he had reserved for himself.
从那一刻起，她开始与里凯·塔夫特进行了一场非常有礼貌的谈话，她的谈话速度如此之快，以至于里凯·塔夫特相信他给了她比他为自己保留的更多的理智。

When she returned to the palace, the whole court knew not what to think of such a sudden and extraordinary change; for they heard from her now as much sensible discourse and as many infinitely witty phrases as they had heard stupid and silly impertinences before. The whole court was overjoyed beyond imagination at it. It pleased all but her younger sister, because, having no longer the advantage of her in respect of wit, she appeared in comparison with her a very disagreeable, homely girl.
当她回到宫中时，面对如此突然而非同寻常的变故，整个朝廷都不知道作何感想。因为他们现在从她那里听到了许多明智的话语和许多无限诙谐的短语，就像他们以前听到的愚蠢和无礼的无礼一样。整个朝廷都欣喜若狂，超乎想象。除了她妹妹之外，所有人都高兴，因为她在才智方面不再有优势，与她相比，她显得是一个非常令人讨厌的、相貌平庸的女孩。

The King governed himself by her advice, and would even sometimes hold a council in her apartment. The news of this change in the Princess spread everywhere; the young princes of the neighboring kingdoms strove all they could to gain her favor, and almost all of them asked her in marriage; but she found not one of them had sense enough for her. She gave them all a hearing, but would not engage herself to any.
国王按照她的建议行事，有时甚至会在她的公寓里召开会议。公主变故的消息传遍四面八方。邻国的年轻王子们千方百计地讨她的欢心，几乎所有人都向她求婚。但她发现他们中没有一个人对她有足够的理智。她听取了所有人的意见，但不会参与其中。

However, there came one so powerful, so rich, so witty, and so handsome that she could not help feeling a strong inclination toward him. Her father perceived it, and told her that she was her own mistress as to the choice of a husband, and that she might declare her intentions. She thanked her father, and desired him to give her time to consider it.
然而，来了一个这么有权有势、这么有钱、这么机智、这么帅的人，让她不禁对他产生了强烈的好感。她的父亲看出了这一点，并告诉她，丈夫的选择是她自己的情妇，她可以表明自己的意愿。她感谢父亲，并希望他给她时间考虑。

She went by chance to walk in the same wood where she met Riquet with the Tuft, the more conveniently to think what she ought to do. While she was walking in a profound meditation, she heard a confused noise under her feet, as it were of a great many people busily running backward and forward. Listening more attentively, she heard one say:—
她偶然在与里奎特和簇绒相遇的同一片树林里散步，这样更方便地思考她应该做什么。正当她沉思的时候，她听到脚下有一阵混乱的声音，像是很多人在忙着来回奔跑。她仔细听了听，听到有人说：——

‘Bring me that pot,’ another, ‘Give me that kettle,’ and a third, ‘Put some wood upon the fire.’
“把那个锅给我，”另一个，“给我那个水壶，”第三个，“在火上放一些木头。”

The ground at the same time opened, and she saw under her feet a great kitchen full of cooks, kitchen helps, and all sorts of officers necessary for a magnificent entertainment. There came out of it a company of cooks, to the number of twenty or thirty, who went to plant themselves about a very long table set up in the forest, with their larding pins in their hands and fox tails in their caps, and began to work, keeping time to a very harmonious tune.
地面同时打开了，她看到脚下有一个大厨房，里面挤满了厨师、厨房帮手，以及举办盛大娱乐活动所需的各种官员。一群厨师从里面走出来，大约有二十或三十人，他们走到森林里一张很长的桌子旁，手里拿着猪油钉，帽子上插着狐狸尾巴，然后开始做饭。去工作，让时间保持在非常和谐的调子上。

The Princess, all astonished at this sight, asked them for whom they worked.
公主看到这一幕，大吃一惊，问他们为谁工作。

‘For Prince Riquet with the Tuft,’ said the chief of them, ‘who is to be married to-morrow.’
“献给长着一簇头发的里奎特王子，”他们中的首领说道，“他明天就要结婚了。”

The Princess, more surprised than ever, and recollecting all at once that it was now that day twelvemonth on which she had promised to marry the Prince Riquet with the Tuft, was ready to sink into the ground.
公主比以往任何时候都更加惊讶，她立刻想起今天是十二月的那一天，她曾许诺要与一簇簇的里凯王子结婚，她准备沉入地下。

What made her forget this was that when she made this promise, she was very silly; and having obtained that vast stock of sense which the prince had bestowed upon her, she had entirely forgotten the things she had done in the days of her stupidity. She continued her walk, but had not taken thirty steps before Riquet with the Tuft presented himself to her, gallant and most magnificently dressed, like a prince who was going to be married.
让她忘记了这一点的是，当她做出这个承诺时，她很傻；她获得了王子赋予她的丰富的理智，完全忘记了自己在愚蠢的日子里所做的事情。她继续往前走，还没走出三十步，一头鬃毛的里凯就出现在她面前，他英气十足，衣着华丽，就像一位即将出嫁的王子。

‘You see, madam,’ said he, ‘I am exact in keeping my word, and doubt not in the least but you are come hither to perform your promise.’
“您瞧，女士，”他说，“我是严格遵守诺言的，一点也不怀疑，但您来这里是为了履行您的诺言。”

‘I frankly confess,’ answered the Princess, ‘that I have not yet come to a decision in this matter, and I believe I never shall be able to arrive at such a one as you desire.’
“我坦白承认，”公主回答道，“我在这件事上还没有做出决定，而且我相信我永远也无法做出您所希望的决定。”

‘You astonish me, madam,’ said Riquet with the Tuft.
“你让我很惊讶，女士，”拿着一簇头发的里凯说道。

‘I can well believe it,’ said the Princess; ‘and surely if I had to do with a clown, or a man of no sense, I should find myself very much at a loss. ‘A princess always keeps her word,’ he would say to me, ‘and you must marry me, since you promised to do so.’ But as he to whom I talk is the one man in the world who is master of the greatest sense and judgment, I am sure he will hear reason. You know that when I was but a fool I could scarcely make up my mind to marry you; why will you have me, now I have so much judgment as you gave me, come to such a decision which I could not then make up my mind to agree to? If you sincerely thought to make me your wife, you have been greatly in the wrong to deprive me of my dull simplicity, and make me see things much more clearly than I did.’
“我完全相信这一点，”公主说。 “当然，如果我不得不与一个小丑或一个没有理智的人打交道，我会发现自己非常不知所措。 “公主总是信守诺言，”他会对我说，“你必须嫁给我，因为你答应了。”但与我交谈的他是世界上最伟大的人的主人。理智和判断力，我相信他会听到理性。你知道，当我还是个傻瓜的时候，我几乎无法下定决心嫁给你；你为什么要让我，现在我已经有了你给我的这么多判断力，做出了这样一个我当时无法下定决心同意的决定？如果你真心想娶我为妻，那么你就大错特错了，你剥夺了我的愚钝单纯，让我比以前看得更清楚。”

‘If a man of no wit and sense,’ replied Riquet with the Tuft, ‘would be well received, as you say, in reproaching you for breach of your word, why will you not let me, madam, have the same usage in a matter wherein all the happiness of my life is concerned? Is it reasonable that persons of wit and sense should be in a worse condition than those who have none? Can you pretend this, you who have so great a share, and desired so earnestly to have it? But let us come to the fact, if you please. Putting aside my ugliness and deformity, is there anything in me which displeased you? Are you dissatisfied with my birth, my wit, my humor, or my manners?’
“如果一个没有智慧和理智的人，”长着一簇头发的里凯回答道，“正如你所说，他会很乐意责备你违反诺言，那么你为什么不让我，女士，在这是一件关系到我一生幸福的事情吗？有智慧和理智的人的处境比那些没有智慧和理智的人更糟糕，这合理吗？你能假装这样吗，你拥有如此大的份额，并且如此热切地渴望拥有它？但如果你愿意的话，让我们来面对现实吧。抛开我的丑陋和残缺不谈，我身上有什么让你不高兴的地方吗？你对我的出身、我的智慧、我的幽默、我的举止不满意吗？

‘Not at all,’ answered the Princess; ‘I love you and respect you in all that you mention.’
“一点也不，”公主回答道。 “我爱你并尊重你提到的一切。”

‘If it be so,’ said Riquet with the Tuft, ‘I am happy, since it is in your power to make me the most amiable of men.’
“如果是这样，”长着一簇头发的里凯说，“我很高兴，因为你有能力让我成为最和蔼可亲的人。”

‘How can that be?’ said the Princess.
“怎么可能呢？”公主说道。

‘It is done,’ said Riquet with the Tuft, ‘if you love me enough to wish it was so; and that you may no ways doubt, madam, of what I say, know that the same fairy who on my birthday gave me for gift the power of making the person who should please me witty and judicious, has in like manner given you for gift the power of making him whom you love and to whom you would grant the favor, to be extremely handsome.’
“事情已经完成了，”里凯拿着一簇头发说道，“如果你足够爱我，希望如此；女士，您对我所说的话毫无疑问，知道在我生日那天给我礼物的同一个仙女，她有能力使应该取悦我的人变得机智和明智，也以同样的方式给了您礼物让你所爱的人和你愿意恩待的人变得极其英俊的力量。

‘If it be so,’ said the Princess, ‘I wish with all my heart that you may be the most lovable prince in the world, and I bestow my gift on you as much as I am able.’
“如果是这样，”公主说，“我衷心希望你成为世界上最可爱的王子，我会尽我所能把我的礼物送给你。”

The Princess had no sooner pronounced these words than Riquet with the Tuft appeared to her the finest prince upon earth, the handsomest and most amiable man she ever saw. Some affirm that it was not the fairy’s charms, but love alone, which worked the change.
公主刚说出这句话，一头簇绒的里凯就在她看来是地球上最优秀的王子，是她见过的最英俊、最和蔼可亲的男人。有人断言，造成这种变化的不是仙女的魅力，而是爱情。

They say that the Princess, having made due reflection on the perseverance of her lover, his discretion, and all the good qualities of his mind, his wit and judgment, saw no longer the deformity of his body, nor the ugliness of his face; that his hump seemed to her no more than the grand air of one having a broad back, and that whereas till then she saw him limp horribly, she now found it nothing more than a certain sidling air, which charmed her.
他们说，公主在充分考虑了她爱人的毅力、谨慎、思想、智慧和判断力的所有优良品质后，不再看到他身体的畸形，也不再看到他面容的丑陋；在她看来，他的驼背不过是宽阔背部的宏伟神态，而在那之前她还看到他跛行得可怕，但现在她发现这只不过是一种侧身的神态，这使她着迷。

They say further that his eyes, which were squinted very much, seemed to her most bright and sparkling, that their irregularity passed in her judgment for a mark of the warmth of his affection, and, in short, that his great red nose was, in her opinion, somewhat martial and heroic in character.
他们进一步说，他的眼睛，眯得很厉害，在她看来是最明亮和闪闪发光的，他们的不规则性在她的判断中被认为是他感情温暖的标志，简而言之，他的大红鼻子是，在她看来，性格有些尚武和英雄气概。

However it was, the Princess promised immediately to marry him, on condition that he obtained the King’s consent. The King, knowing that his daughter highly esteemed Riquet with the Tuft, whom he knew also for a most sage and judicious prince, received him for his son-in-law with pleasure, and the next morning their nuptials were celebrated, as Riquet with the Tuft had foreseen, and according to the orders he had given a long time before.
不管怎样，公主立即答应嫁给他，条件是得到国王的同意。国王知道他的女儿非常尊敬里凯，他也知道里凯是一位最贤明、最明智的王子，所以很高兴地接待了他作为自己的女婿，第二天早上他们就举行了婚礼。塔夫脱已经预见到了，并且按照他很久以前下达的命令。

BLUE BEARD.
蓝胡子。

Once upon a time there was a man who had fine houses, both in town and country, a deal of silver and gold plate, carved furniture, and coaches gilded all over. But unhappily this man had a blue beard, which made him so ugly and so terrible that all the women and girls ran away from him.
从前，有一个人，他在城里和乡村都拥有漂亮的房子、大量的银器和金器、雕刻的家具和镀金的马车。但不幸的是，这个男人留着蓝色的胡子，这让他变得如此丑陋和可怕，以至于所有的妇女和女孩都逃离了他。

One of his neighbors, a lady of quality, had two daughters who were perfect beauties. He asked for one of them in marriage, leaving to her the choice of which she would bestow on him. They would neither of them have him, and they sent him backward and forward from one to the other, neither being able to make up her mind to marry a man who had a blue beard. Another thing which made them averse to him was that he had already married several wives, and nobody knew what had become of them.
他的一个邻居是一位名门望族，有两个女儿，都是绝世美人。他向她求婚，并让她选择将其授予他。他们谁也不想要他，他们把他从一个地方送到另一个地方，两个人都无法下定决心嫁给一个蓝胡子的男人。另一件让他们反感的事情是，他已经娶了好几个妻子，没人知道她们怎么样了。

Blue Beard, to become better acquainted, took them, with their mother and three or four of their best friends, with some young people of the neighborhood to one of his country seats, where they stayed a whole week.
为了更加熟悉，蓝胡子带着他们、他们的母亲、三四个最好的朋友，还有附近的一些年轻人到他的一个乡村座位，他们在那里待了整整一个星期。

There was nothing going on but pleasure parties, hunting, fishing, dancing, mirth, and feasting. Nobody went to bed, but all passed the night in playing pranks on each other. In short, everything succeeded so well that the youngest daughter began to think that the beard of the master of the house was not so very blue, and that he was a very civil gentleman. So as soon as they returned home, the marriage was concluded.
除了欢乐聚会、狩猎、钓鱼、跳舞、欢乐和宴会之外，什么也没有发生。没有人上床睡觉，大家都在互相恶作剧中度过了这一夜。总之，一切都很顺利，小女儿开始认为，主人的胡子不是那么蓝，他是一位非常文明的绅士。于是，他们一回到家，就结束了婚姻。

About a month afterward Blue Beard told his wife that he was obliged to take a country journey for six weeks at least, upon business of great importance. He desired her to amuse herself well in his absence, to send for her friends, to take them into the country, if she pleased, and to live well wherever she was.
大约一个月后，蓝胡子告诉他的妻子，他必须去乡村旅行至少六个星期，因为有一件非常重要的事情。他希望她在他不在的时候好好地娱乐一下，派人去叫她的朋友们，如果她愿意的话，可以带他们去乡下，无论她在哪里，都过得很好。

‘Here,’ said he, ‘are the keys of the two great warehouses wherein I have my best furniture: these are of the room where I keep my silver and gold plate, which is not in everyday use; these open my safes, which hold my money, both gold and silver; these my caskets of jewels; and this is the master-key to all my apartments. But as for this little key, it is the key of the closet at the end of the great gallery on the ground floor. Open them all; go everywhere; but as for that little closet, I forbid you to enter it, and I promise you surely that, if you open it, there’s nothing that you may not expect from my anger.’
“这里，”他说，“这是两个大仓库的钥匙，里面有我最好的家具：这些是我存放银器和金器的房间的钥匙，这些盘子不是日常使用的；这些是我存放银器和金器的房间的钥匙。这些可以打开我的保险箱，里面装着我的钱，包括金银；这些是我的珠宝箱；这是我所有公寓的万能钥匙。不过这把小钥匙，却是一楼大画廊尽头衣柜的钥匙。全部打开；到处走走；但至于那个小壁橱，我禁止你进去，而且我向你保证，如果你打开它，我的愤怒不会让你失望。

She promised to obey exactly all his orders; and he, after having embraced her, got into his coach and proceeded on his journey.
她答应严格遵守他的所有命令；他拥抱了她之后，就上了马车，继续了他的旅程。

Her neighbors and good friends did not stay to be sent for by the new-married lady, so great was their impatience to see all the riches of her house, not daring to come while her husband was there, because of his blue beard, which frightened them. They at once ran through all the rooms, closets, and wardrobes, which were so fine and rich, and each seemed to surpass all others. They went up into the warehouses, where was the best and richest furniture; and they could not sufficiently admire the number and beauty of the tapestry, beds, couches, cabinets, stands, tables, and looking-glasses, in which you might see yourself from head to foot. Some of them were framed with glass, others with silver, plain and gilded, the most beautiful and the most magnificent ever seen.
她的邻居和好朋友都没有留下来迎接新婚女士的到来，他们迫不及待地想看看她家里的所有财富，不敢在她丈夫在的时候来，因为他的蓝色胡子，吓坏了他们。他们立刻把所有的房间、壁橱、衣柜都搜遍了，这些都是那么精致、那么丰富，而且每一个都似乎超越了其他所有。他们走进仓库，那里有最好、最丰富的家具。他们无法充分欣赏挂毯、床、沙发、柜子、架子、桌子和镜子的数量和美丽，在这些地方你可以从头到脚看到自己。其中一些是玻璃框的，另一些是银框的，朴素的和镀金的，是有史以来最美丽、最宏伟的。

[Illustration: ‘IF YOU OPEN IT, THERE’S NOTHING YOU MAY NOT EXPECT FROM MY ANGER.’ p. 67.]
[插图：“如果你打开它，你可能会从我的愤怒中得到什么。”p。 67.]

They ceased not to praise and envy the happiness of their friend, who, in the meantime, was not at all amused by looking upon all these rich things, because of her impatience to go and open the closet on the ground floor. Her curiosity was so great that, without considering how uncivil it was to leave her guests, she went down a little back staircase, with such excessive haste that twice or thrice she came near breaking her neck. Having reached the closet-door, she stood still for some time, thinking of her husband’s orders, and considering that unhappiness might attend her if she was disobedient; but the temptation was so strong she could not overcome it. She then took the little key, and opened the door, trembling. At first she could not see anything plainly, because the windows were shut. After some moments she began to perceive that several dead women were scattered about the floor. (These were all the wives whom Blue Beard had married and murdered, one after the other, because they did not obey his orders about the closet on the ground floor.) She thought she surely would die for fear, and the key, which she pulled out of the lock, fell out of her hand.
他们不停地赞美和羡慕他们的朋友的幸福，而与此同时，她看到这些丰富的东西却一点也不觉得好笑，因为她不耐烦地去打开一楼的壁橱。她的好奇心是如此之大，以至于她不顾离开客人是多么不礼貌，就走下后面的一个小楼梯，速度如此之快，有两三次差点扭断脖子。到了壁橱门口，她静静地站了一会儿，想着丈夫的命令，想着如果不听话，可能会招来不幸。但诱惑如此强烈，她无法克服。然后她拿着小钥匙，颤抖着打开了门。起初她什么也看不清，因为窗户关着。过了一会儿，她开始发现地板上散落着几名死去的妇女。 （这些都是蓝胡子所娶并杀害的所有妻子，一个接一个，因为她们不服从他关于一楼壁橱的命令。） 她认为她肯定会因为恐惧而死，而她的钥匙却被她夺走了。从锁里拔出来，从她手里掉下来。

After having somewhat recovered from the shock, she picked up the key, locked the door, and went upstairs into her chamber to compose herself; but she could not rest, so much was she frightened.
她从震惊中稍稍回过神来，拿起钥匙，锁上门，上楼进了自己的房间，静下心来。但她无法休息，她太害怕了。

Having observed that the key of the closet was stained, she tried two or three times to wipe off the stain, but the stain would not come out. In vain did she wash it, and even rub it with soap and sand. The stain still remained, for the key was a magic key, and she could never make it quite clean; when the stain was gone off from one side, it came again on the other.
她发现衣柜的钥匙上有污渍，她试着擦了两三次，但污渍却擦不掉。她徒劳地洗了它，甚至用肥皂和沙子擦了它。污渍仍然存在，因为钥匙是一把有魔力的钥匙，她永远无法把它弄干净。当污渍从一侧消失时，另一侧又出现了。

Blue Beard returned from his journey that same evening, and said he had received letters upon the road, informing him that the business which called him away was ended to his advantage. His wife did all she could to convince him she was delighted at his speedy return.
当天晚上，蓝胡子从旅途中回来，说他在路上收到了信，通知他，叫他离开的生意已经结束，对他有利。他的妻子竭尽全力让他相信，她对他的迅速回归感到高兴。

Next morning he asked her for the keys, which she gave him, but with such a trembling hand that he easily guessed what had happened.
第二天早上，他向她要钥匙，她给了他，但她的手颤抖着，所以他很容易猜到发生了什么事。

‘How is it,’ said he, ‘that the key of my closet is not among the rest?’
“怎么了，”他说，“我衣柜的钥匙不在其他钥匙中间？”

‘I must certainly,’ said she, ‘have left it upstairs upon the table.’
“我肯定是把它落在楼上的桌子上了，”她说。

‘Do not fail,’ said Blue Beard, ‘to bring it to me presently.’
“别忘了，”蓝胡子说，“尽快把它带给我。”

After having put off doing it several times, she was forced to bring him the key. Blue Beard, having examined it, said to his wife:—
几次推迟后，她被迫把钥匙给了他。蓝胡子检查了一下，对他的妻子说：

‘How comes this stain upon the key?’
“钥匙上的污渍是怎么来的？”

‘I do not know,’ cried the poor woman, paler than death.
“我不知道，”可怜的女人喊道，脸色苍白如死人。

‘You do not know!’ replied Blue Beard. ‘I very well know. You wished to go into the cabinet? Very well, madam; you shall go in, and take your place among the ladies you saw there.’
“你不知道！”蓝胡子回答道。 “我非常清楚。你想进内阁吗？很好，女士；你应该进去，在你在那里看到的女士们中间就座。

She threw herself weeping at her husband’s feet, and begged his pardon with all the signs of a true repentance for her disobedience. She would have melted a rock, so beautiful and sorrowful was she; but Blue Beard had a heart harder than any stone.
她扑倒在丈夫脚边哭泣，恳求他原谅，并表现出对自己不服从的真正悔罪。她是如此美丽而悲伤，她简直可以融化一块岩石；但蓝胡子的心比任何石头都坚硬。

‘You must die, madam,’ said he, ‘and that at once.’
“你必须死，女士，”他说，“而且必须立刻死。”

‘Since I must die,’ answered she, looking upon him with her eyes all bathed in tears, ‘give me some little time to say my prayers.’
“既然我必须死，”她回答道，眼睛里充满了泪水，看着他，“请给我一点时间祈祷。”

‘I give you,’ replied Blue Beard, ‘half a quarter of an hour, but not one moment more.’
“我给你半刻钟，”蓝胡子回答道，“但一刻也不能多。”

When she was alone she called out to her sister, and said to her:—
当她独自一人时，她叫住了她的妹妹，对她说：——

‘Sister Anne,’—for that was her name,—‘go up, I beg you, to the top of the tower, and look if my brothers are not coming; they promised me they would come to-day, and if you see them, give them a sign to make haste.’
“安妮修女，”——那是她的名字，——“我请求你上去，到塔顶去看看我的兄弟们是否来了；如果我的哥哥们还没有来的话，我会告诉你的。”他们答应我今天会来，如果你看到他们，请给他们一个动作，让他们快点。

Her sister Anne went up to the top of the tower, and the poor afflicted wife cried out from time to time:—
她的姐姐安妮登上了塔顶，可怜的受苦受难的妻子不时地哭喊着：

‘Anne, sister Anne, do you see any one coming?’
“安妮，安妮姐妹，你们看到有人来了吗？”

And sister Anne said:—
安妮修女说：——

‘I see nothing but the sun, which makes a dust, and the grass, which looks green.’
“我什么也看不见，除了太阳，它扬起灰尘，还有青草，看起来绿色。”

In the meanwhile Blue Beard, holding a great sabre in his hand, cried to his wife as loud as he could:—
与此同时，蓝胡子手里拿着一把大刀，竭力向妻子喊道：

‘Come down instantly, or I shall come up to you.’
“立刻下来，不然我就去找你了。”

‘One moment longer, if you please,’ said his wife; and then she cried out very softly, ‘Anne, sister Anne, dost thou see anybody coming?’
“请再等一会儿，”他的妻子说道。然后她轻声喊道：“安妮，安妮姐妹，你看到有人来了吗？”

And sister Anne answered:—
安妮修女回答说：——

‘I see nothing but the sun, which makes a dust, and the grass, which is green.’
“除了阳光和青草，我什么也看不见。”

‘Come down quickly,’ cried Blue Beard, ‘or I will come up to you.’
“快下来，”蓝胡子喊道，“不然我就去找你了。”

‘I am coming,’ answered his wife; and then she cried, ‘Anne, sister Anne, dost thou not see any one coming?’
“我来了，”他的妻子回答道。然后她喊道：“安妮，安妮姐妹，你没有看到有人过来吗？”

‘I see,’ replied sister Anne, ‘a great dust, which comes from this side.’
“我明白了，”安妮修女回答道，“有很大的灰尘，是从这边来的。”

‘Are they my brothers?’
“他们是我的兄弟吗？”

‘Alas! no, my sister, I see a flock of sheep.’
'唉！不，我的妹妹，我看到一群羊。

‘Will you not come down?’ cried Blue Beard.
“你不下来吗？”蓝胡子喊道。

‘One moment longer,’ said his wife, and then she cried out, ‘Anne, sister Anne, dost thou see nobody coming?’
“再等一下，”他的妻子说，然后她喊道，“安妮，安妮姐妹，你没有看到有人来吗？”

‘I see,’ said she, ‘two horsemen, but they are yet a great way off.’
“我明白了，”她说，“是两个骑兵，但他们还差得很远。”

‘God be praised,’ replied the poor wife, joyfully; ‘they are my brothers; I will make them a sign, as well as I can, for them to make haste.’
“感谢上帝，”可怜的妻子高兴地回答道。 '他们是我的兄弟;我会尽我所能，给他们一个信号，让他们赶紧行动。

Then Blue Beard bawled out so loud that he made the whole house tremble. The distressed wife came down and threw herself at his feet, all in tears, with her hair about her shoulders.
随后，蓝胡子大吼一声，整个房子都在颤抖。悲痛欲绝的妻子跪倒在他脚边，泪流满面，头发披在肩上。

‘All this is of no help to you,’ says Blue Beard: ‘you must die;’ then, taking hold of her hair with one hand, and lifting up his sword in the air with the other, he was about to take off her head. The poor lady, turning about to him, and looking at him with dying eyes, desired him to afford her one little moment to her thoughts.
“这一切对你没有任何帮助，”蓝胡子说道，“你必须死；”然后，他一手抓住她的头发，另一只手将剑举在空中，准备起飞。她的头。可怜的女士转过身来，用垂死的目光看着他，希望他能给她一点时间思考。

‘No, no,’ said he, ‘commend thyself to God,’ and again lifting his arm—
“不，不，”他说，“向上帝推荐你自己，”然后再次举起手臂——

At this moment there was such a loud knocking at the gate that Blue Beard stopped suddenly. The gate was opened, and presently entered two horsemen, who, with sword in hand, ran directly to Blue Beard. He knew them to be his wife’s brothers, one a dragoon, the other a musketeer. He ran away immediately, but the two brothers pursued him so closely that they overtook him before he could get to the steps of the porch. There they ran their swords through his body, and left him dead. The poor wife was almost as dead as her husband, and had not strength enough to arise and welcome her brothers.
就在这时，门口响起了这么大的敲门声，蓝胡子猛地停了下来。城门打开，随即进来两名骑兵，他们手持长剑，直奔蓝胡子而去。他知道他们是他妻子的兄弟，一个是龙骑兵，另一个是火枪手。他立即逃跑，但两兄弟紧追不舍，以至于他还没走到门廊的台阶上，就追上了他。他们在那里用剑刺穿了他的身体，让他死了。可怜的妻子几乎和她的丈夫一样死了，没有足够的力量站起来迎接她的兄弟们。

Blue Beard had no heirs, and so his wife became mistress of all his estate. She made use of one portion of it to marry her sister Anne to a young gentleman who had loved her a long while; another portion to buy captains’ commissions for her brothers; and the rest to marry herself to a very worthy gentleman, who made her forget the sorry time she had passed with Blue Beard.
蓝胡子没有继承人，因此他的妻子成为了他所有财产的女主人。她利用其中的一部分将她的妹妹安妮嫁给了一位爱她已久的年轻绅士。另一部分用于为她的兄弟购买船长佣金；剩下的就是嫁给一位非常值得尊敬的绅士，他让她忘记了与蓝胡子一起度过的悲伤时光。

THE FAIRY.
仙女。

Once upon a time there was a widow who had two daughters. The elder was so much like her, both in looks and character, that whoever saw the daughter saw the mother. They were both so disagreeable and so proud that there was no living with them. The younger, who was the very picture of her father for sweetness of temper and virtue, was withal one of the most beautiful girls ever seen. As people naturally love their own likeness, this mother doted on her elder daughter, and at the same time had a great aversion for the younger. She made her eat in the kitchen and work continually.
从前有一个寡妇，她有两个女儿。老大无论是长相还是性格都太像她了，谁看到女儿就是母亲。他们俩都很不愉快，又很骄傲，以至于没有人和他们住在一起。小女儿的脾气和美德与她父亲一模一样，而且是有史以来最美丽的女孩之一。人天生爱自己的相像，这位母亲既宠爱大女儿，又对小女儿怀有极大的厌恶。她让她在厨房吃饭并不断工作。

Among other things, this unfortunate child had to go twice a day to draw water more than a mile and a half from the house, and bring home a pitcherful of it. One day, as she was at this fountain, there came to her a poor woman, who begged of her to let her drink.
除此之外，这个不幸的孩子每天必须去一英里半以外的地方打水两次，然后带一壶水回家。有一天，当她在这个喷泉边时，一位可怜的女人向她走来，恳求她让她喝水。

‘Oh, yes, with all my heart, Goody,’ said this pretty little girl. Rinsing the pitcher at once, she took some of the clearest water from the fountain, and gave it to her, holding up the pitcher all the while, that she might drink the easier.
“哦，是的，我全心全意，古迪，”这个漂亮的小女孩说道。她立刻把水罐冲洗干净，从喷泉里取了一些最清澈的水递给她，同时一直举着水罐，让她喝得更容易。

The good woman having drunk, said to her:—
好心的妇人喝醉了，对她说：

‘You are so pretty, so good and courteous, that I cannot help giving you a gift.’ For this was a fairy, who had taken the form of a poor country-woman, to see how far the civility and good manners of this pretty girl would go. ‘I will give you for gift,’ continued the Fairy, ‘that, at every word you speak, there shall come out of your mouth either a flower or a jewel.’
“你这么漂亮，这么善良，这么有礼貌，我忍不住送你一件礼物。”因为这是一个仙女，化身为一个贫穷的乡村妇女，看看这个礼貌和礼貌有多大。漂亮的女孩会去。 “我会给你一份礼物，”仙女继续说道，“你所说的每一句话，都会从你嘴里吐出一朵花或一颗宝石。”

When this pretty girl returned, her mother scolded at her for staying so long at the fountain.
当这个漂亮的女孩回来时，她的母亲责备她在喷泉边呆了这么久。

‘I beg your pardon, mamma,’ said the poor girl, ‘for not making more haste.’
“妈妈，请原谅，”可怜的女孩说道，“我没有再快点。”

And in speaking these words there came out of her mouth two roses, two pearls, and two large diamonds.
说这句话的时候，她嘴里吐出了两朵玫瑰，两颗珍珠，还有两颗大钻石。

‘What is it I see there?’ said her mother, quite astonished. ‘I think pearls and diamonds come out of the girl’s mouth! How happens this, my child?’
“我在那里看到了什么？”她母亲非常惊讶地说道。 “我觉得珍珠和钻石是从女孩嘴里吐出来的！”这是怎么回事，我的孩子？

This was the first time she had ever called her ‘my child.’
这是她第一次称她为“我的孩子”。

The girl told her frankly all the matter, not without dropping out great numbers of diamonds.
女孩将事情的经过坦白地告诉了她，并扔下了大量的钻石。

‘Truly,’ cried the mother, ‘I must send my own dear child thither. Fanny, look at what comes out of your sister’s mouth when she speaks. Would you not be glad, my dear, to have the same gift? You have only to go and draw water out of the fountain, and when a poor woman asks you to let her drink, to give it to her very civilly.’
“真的，”母亲喊道，“我必须把我亲爱的孩子送到那里去。”范妮，看看你姐姐说话时嘴里说的是什么。亲爱的，如果你拥有同样的礼物，你会不高兴吗？你只需要去喷泉里打水，当一个可怜的女人请求你让她喝水时，就非常有礼貌地给她喝。

‘I should like to see myself going to the fountain to draw water,’ said this ill-bred minx.
“我希望看到自己去喷泉边打水。”这个没教养的风流女子说道。

‘I insist you shall go,’ said the mother, ‘and that instantly.’
“我坚持要你走，”母亲说，“而且立刻就走。”

She went, but grumbled all the way, taking with her the best silver tankard in the house.
她去了，但一路上牢骚满腹，带着家里最好的银酒杯。

She no sooner reached the fountain than she saw coming out of the wood, a magnificently dressed lady, who came up to her, and asked to drink. This was the same fairy who had appeared to her sister, but she had now taken the air and dress of a princess, to see how far this girl’s rudeness would go.
她刚到喷泉边，就看到一位衣着华丽的女士从树林里走出来，向她走来，要喝水。这还是当初出现在姐姐面前的仙女，如今却摆出一副公主的神气和装扮，倒要看看这丫头的无礼到底能到什么程度。

‘Am I come hither,’ said the proud, ill-bred girl, ‘to serve you with water, pray? I suppose this silver tankard was brought purely for your ladyship, was it? However, you may drink out of it, if you have a fancy.’
“我来这里是为了给你端水吗？”那个骄傲的、没有教养的女孩说道。我想这杯银酒杯纯粹是为您的女士带来的，是吗？不过，如果你喜欢的话，你可以喝它。

‘You are scarcely polite,’ answered the fairy, without anger. ‘Well, then, since you are so disobliging, I give you for gift that at every word you speak there shall come out of your mouth a snake or a toad.’
“你太没有礼貌了。”仙女面无表情地回答道。 “那么，既然你这么不听话，我就给你一份礼物，让你每说一句话，就会从你嘴里跑出一条蛇或一只蟾蜍。”

So soon as her mother saw her coming, she cried out:—
她妈妈一看到她来，就喊道：

‘Well, daughter?’
“怎么样，女儿？”

‘Well, mother?’ answered the unhappy girl, throwing out of her mouth a viper and a toad.
“怎么样，妈妈？”那个不高兴的女孩回答道，同时从嘴里吐出一条毒蛇和一只蟾蜍。

‘Oh, mercy!’ cried the mother, ‘what is it I see? It is her sister who has caused all this, but she shall pay for it,’ and immediately she ran to beat her. The poor child fled away from her, and went to hide herself in the forest nearby.
“哦，天啊！”母亲喊道，“我看到了什么？这一切都是她姐姐造成的，她要付出代价。”说完就跑去打她。可怜的孩子逃离了她，躲到了附近的森林里。

The King’s son, who was returning from the chase, met her, and seeing her so beautiful, asked her what she did there alone and why she cried.
国王的儿子狩猎归来，遇见了她，见她如此美丽，就问她一个人在那里做什么，为什么哭。

‘Alas! sir, my mother has turned me out of doors.’
'唉！先生，我妈妈把我赶出了门。”

The King’s son, who saw five or six pearls and as many diamonds come out of her mouth, desired her to tell him how that happened. She told him the whole story. The King’s son fell in love with her, and, considering that such a gift was worth more than any marriage portion another bride could bring, conducted her to the palace of the King, his father, and there married her.
国王的儿子看到她嘴里吐出了五六颗珍珠和同样多的钻石，希望她告诉他这是怎么回事。她把整个故事告诉了他。国王的儿子爱上了她，并考虑到这样的礼物比其他新娘所能带来的任何结婚礼物都更有价值，因此将她带到了他父亲国王的宫殿，并在那里娶了她。

As for her sister, she made herself so much hated that her own mother turned her out of doors. The miserable girl, after wandering about and finding no one to take her in, went to a corner of the wood, and there died.
至于她的妹妹，她太让人讨厌了，以至于她自己的母亲把她赶出了家门。可怜的女孩四处游荡，没有人收留她，就到了树林的一角，死了。

LITTLE RED RIDING-HOOD.
小红帽。

Once upon a time there lived in a certain village a little country girl, the prettiest creature that ever was seen. Her mother was very fond of her, and her grandmother loved her still more. This good woman made for her a little red riding-hood, which became the girl so well that everybody called her Little Red Riding-hood.
从前，在某个村庄里住着一位乡村小姑娘，她是人们所见过的最美丽的生物。她的母亲非常疼爱她，而她的祖母则更爱她。这位好心的女人给她做了一个小红帽，和这个女孩非常相配，大家都叫她小红帽。

One day her mother, having made some custards, said to her:—
有一天，她的母亲做了一些蛋奶冻，对她说：

‘Go, my dear, and see how your grandmother does, for I hear she has been very ill; carry her a custard and this little pot of butter.’
“去吧，亲爱的，看看你的祖母怎么样了，因为我听说她病得很重；给她带一份蛋奶冻和这一小罐黄油。”

Little Red Riding-hood set out immediately to go to her grandmother’s, who lived in another village.
小红帽立即动身前往住在另一个村庄的祖母家。

As she was going through the wood, she met Gaffer Wolf, who had a very great mind to eat her up; but he dared not, because of some fagot-makers hard by in the forest. He asked her whither she was going. The poor child, who did not know that it was dangerous to stay and hear a wolf talk, said to him:—
当她穿过树林时，她遇到了狼老头，狼老头非常想把她吃掉。但他不敢，因为森林里有一些木柴制造者。他问她要去哪里。这个可怜的孩子不知道留下来听狼说话是危险的，他对他说：

‘I am going to see my grandmother, and carry her a custard and a little pot of butter from my mamma.’
“我要去见我的祖母，给她带一份我妈妈送给她的蛋奶冻和一小罐黄油。”

‘Does she live far off?’ said the Wolf.
“她住得很远吗？”狼问。

‘Oh, yes,’ answered Little Red Riding-hood; ‘it is beyond that mill you see there, the first house you come to in the village.’
“哦，是的，”小红帽回答道。 “它就在你看到的那个磨坊后面，是你在村子里看到的第一栋房子。”

‘Well,’ said the Wolf, ‘and I’ll go and see her, too. I’ll go this way, and you go that, and we shall see who will be there first.’
“好吧，”狼说，“我也要去看看她。”我走这边，你走那边，我们看看谁先到。

The Wolf began to run as fast as he could, taking the shortest way, and the little girl went by the longest way, amusing herself by gathering nuts, running after butterflies, and making nosegays of such little flowers as she met with. The Wolf was not long before he reached the old woman’s house. He knocked at the door—tap, tap, tap.
狼开始尽可能快地跑，走最短的路，而小女孩则走最长的路，以收集坚果、追蝴蝶和用她遇到的小花做花束来取乐。没多久，狼就到了老妇人的家。他敲了敲门——咚咚，咚咚，咚咚。

‘Who’s there?’ called the grandmother.
“谁在那儿？”祖母喊道。

‘Your grandchild, Little Red Riding-hood,’ replied the Wolf, imitating her voice, ‘who has brought a custard and a little pot of butter sent to you by mamma.’
“你的孙子，小红帽，”狼模仿着她的声音回答道，“他给你带来了妈妈送给你的奶油冻和一小罐黄油。”

The good grandmother, who was in bed, because she was somewhat ill, cried out:—
善良的奶奶因为病了，躺在床上，大声喊道：

‘Pull the bobbin, and the latch will go up.’
“拉动线轴，闩锁就会升起。”

The Wolf pulled the bobbin, and the door opened. He fell upon the good woman and ate her up in no time, for he had not eaten anything for more than three days. He then shut the door, went into the grandmother’s bed, and waited for Little Red Riding-hood, who came sometime afterward and knocked at the door—tap, tap, tap.
狼拉动线轴，门打开了。他扑到了那个好心的女人身上，很快就把她吃掉了，因为他已经三天多没有吃东西了。然后他关上门，走进奶奶的床上，等待小红帽，过了一会儿，小红帽来了，敲门，咚咚咚，咚咚咚。

‘Who’s there?’ called the Wolf.
“谁在那儿？”狼喊道。

Little Red Riding-hood, hearing the big voice of the Wolf, was at first afraid; but thinking her grandmother had a cold, answered:—
小红帽听到大灰狼的声音，一开始很害怕。但她以为祖母感冒了，便回答道：——

‘‘Tis your grandchild, Little Red Riding-hood, who has brought you a custard and a little pot of butter sent to you by mamma.’
“这是你的孙子，小红帽，他给你带来了妈妈送给你的奶油冻和一小罐黄油。”

The Wolf cried out to her, softening his voice a little:—
狼对她大声喊道，声音稍微软化了一些：

‘Pull the bobbin, and the latch will go up.’
“拉动线轴，闩锁就会升起。”

Little Red Riding-hood pulled the bobbin, and the door opened.
小红帽拉动线轴，门开了。

The Wolf, seeing her come in, said to her, hiding himself under the bedclothes:—
狼看见她进来，就躲在被子下面对她说：

‘Put the custard and the little pot of butter upon the stool, and come and lie down with me.’
“把蛋奶冻和一小罐黄油放在凳子上，过来和我一起躺下。”

Little Red Riding-hood undressed herself and went into bed, where she was much surprised to see how her grandmother looked in her night-clothes.
小红帽脱掉衣服，上了床，她很惊讶地看到祖母穿着睡衣的样子。

She said to her:—
她对她说：——

‘Grandmamma, what great arms you have got!’
“奶奶，你的手臂多棒啊！”

‘That is the better to hug thee, my dear.’
“亲爱的，拥抱你会更好。”

‘Grandmamma, what great legs you have got!’
“奶奶，你的腿多棒啊！”

[Illustration: ‘HE FELL UPON THE GOOD WOMAN.’ p. 81.]
[插图：“他倒在好女人身上”。 81.]

‘That is to run the better, my child.’
“那是为了跑得更好，我的孩子。”

‘Grandmamma, what great ears you have got!’
“奶奶，你的耳朵多好啊！”

‘That is to hear the better, my child.’
“那是为了听得更好，我的孩子。”

‘Grandmamma, what great eyes you have got!’
“奶奶，你的眼睛多漂亮啊！”

‘It is to see the better, my child.’
“这是为了看得更好，我的孩子。”

‘Grandmamma, what great teeth you have got!’
“奶奶，你的牙齿多棒啊！”

‘That is to eat thee up.’
“那是为了吃掉你。”

And, saying these words, this wicked Wolf fell upon Little Red Riding-hood, and ate her all up.
说完这句话，恶狼扑向小红帽，把她吃掉了。