The-Prince
王子
The Prince
王子
INTRODUCTION
介绍
CHAPTER I. HOW MANY KINDS OF PRINCIPALITIES THERE ARE, AND BY WHAT MEANS THEY ARE ACQUIRED
第一章 公国有多少种，以及通过什么方式获得它们
CHAPTER II. CONCERNING HEREDITARY PRINCIPALITIES
第二章。关于世袭公国
CHAPTER III. CONCERNING MIXED PRINCIPALITIES
第三章。关于混合公国
CHAPTER IV. WHY THE KINGDOM OF DARIUS, CONQUERED BY ALEXANDER, DID NOT REBEL AGAINST THE SUCCESSORS OF ALEXANDER AT HIS DEATH
第四章。为什么被亚历山大征服的大流士王国在亚历山大死后没有反抗他的继承者
CHAPTER V. CONCERNING THE WAY TO GOVERN CITIES OR PRINCIPALITIES WHICH LIVED UNDER THEIR OWN LAWS BEFORE THEY WERE ANNEXED
第五章 关于被吞并之前按照自己的法律生活的城市或公国的治理方式
CHAPTER VI. CONCERNING NEW PRINCIPALITIES WHICH ARE ACQUIRED BY ONE’S OWN ARMS AND ABILITY
第六章。关于用自己的武器和能力获得的新公国
CHAPTER VII. CONCERNING NEW PRINCIPALITIES WHICH ARE ACQUIRED EITHER BY THE ARMS OF OTHERS OR BY GOOD FORTUNE
第七章。关于通过他人的武力或好运获得的新公国
CHAPTER VIII. CONCERNING THOSE WHO HAVE OBTAINED A PRINCIPALITY BY WICKEDNESS
第八章。关于那些因邪恶而获得公国地位的人
CHAPTER IX. CONCERNING A CIVIL PRINCIPALITY
第九章。关于民事公国
CHAPTER X. CONCERNING THE WAY IN WHICH THE STRENGTH OF ALL PRINCIPALITIES OUGHT TO BE MEASURED
第十章 关于衡量各国实力的方式
CHAPTER XI. CONCERNING ECCLESIASTICAL PRINCIPALITIES
第十一章。关于教会公国
CHAPTER XII. HOW MANY KINDS OF SOLDIERY THERE ARE, AND CONCERNING MERCENARIES
第十二章。士兵有多少种，以及雇佣军
CHAPTER XIII. CONCERNING AUXILIARIES, MIXED SOLDIERY, AND ONE’S OWN
第十三章。关于辅助部队、混成部队和己方部队
CHAPTER XIV. THAT WHICH CONCERNS A PRINCE ON THE SUBJECT OF THE ART OF WAR
第十四章。与王子有关的孙子兵法
CHAPTER XV. CONCERNING THINGS FOR WHICH MEN, AND ESPECIALLY PRINCES, ARE PRAISED OR BLAMED
第十五章。关于人们，特别是王子，受到赞扬或指责的事情
CHAPTER XVI. CONCERNING LIBERALITY AND MEANNESS
第十六章。关于自由和吝啬
CHAPTER XVII. CONCERNING CRUELTY AND CLEMENCY, AND WHETHER IT IS BETTER TO BE LOVED THAN FEARED
第十七章。关于残酷与仁慈，以及被爱比被恐惧更好
CHAPTER XVIII[*]. CONCERNING THE WAY IN WHICH PRINCES SHOULD KEEP FAITH
第十八章[*]。论诸侯应如何守信
CHAPTER XIX. THAT ONE SHOULD AVOID BEING DESPISED AND HATED
第十九章。一个人应该避免被鄙视和憎恨
CHAPTER XX. ARE FORTRESSES, AND MANY OTHER THINGS TO WHICH PRINCES OFTEN RESORT, ADVANTAGEOUS OR HURTFUL?
第二十章。要塞以及王子经常度假的许多其他事物是有利还是有害？
CHAPTER XXI. HOW A PRINCE SHOULD CONDUCT HIMSELF SO AS TO GAIN RENOWN
第二十一章。王子应该如何做才能赢得声誉
CHAPTER XXII. CONCERNING THE SECRETARIES OF PRINCES
第二十二章。关于王子的秘书
CHAPTER XXIII. HOW FLATTERERS SHOULD BE AVOIDED
第二十三章。如何避免阿谀奉承者
CHAPTER XXIV. WHY THE PRINCES OF ITALY HAVE LOST THEIR STATES
第二十四章。为什么意大利王子失去了他们的国家
CHAPTER XXV. WHAT FORTUNE CAN EFFECT IN HUMAN AFFAIRS AND HOW TO WITHSTAND HER
第二十五章。命运对人事有什么影响以及如何承受它
CHAPTER XXVI. AN EXHORTATION TO LIBERATE ITALY FROM THE BARBARIANS
第二十六章。劝告将意大利从野蛮人手中解放出来


The Prince
王子

By Nicolo Machiavelli (1532)
尼科洛·马基雅维利 (1532)

Nicolo Machiavelli, born at Florence on 3rd May 1469. From 1494 to 1512 held an official post at Florence which included diplomatic missions to various European courts. Imprisoned in Florence, 1512; later exiled and returned to San Casciano. Died at Florence on 22nd June 1527.
尼科洛·马基雅维利 (Nicolo Machiavelli)，1469 年 5 月 3 日出生于佛罗伦萨。从 1494 年到 1512 年，他在佛罗伦萨担任官方职务，其中包括派驻欧洲各个宫廷的外交使团。 1512 年在佛罗伦萨被监禁；后来被流放并返回圣卡夏诺。 1527 年 6 月 22 日逝世于佛罗伦萨。

INTRODUCTION
介绍

Nicolo Machiavelli was born at Florence on 3rd May 1469. He was the second son of Bernardo di Nicolo Machiavelli, a lawyer of some repute, and of Bartolommea di Stefano Nelli, his wife. Both parents were members of the old Florentine nobility.
尼科洛·马基雅维利于 1469 年 5 月 3 日出生于佛罗伦萨。他是颇有声望的律师贝尔纳多·迪·尼科洛·马基雅维利和他的妻子巴托洛梅亚·迪·斯特凡诺·内利的第二个儿子。父母都是旧佛罗伦萨贵族的成员。

His life falls naturally into three periods, each of which singularly enough constitutes a distinct and important era in the history of Florence. His youth was concurrent with the greatness of Florence as an Italian power under the guidance of Lorenzo de’ Medici, Il Magnifico. The downfall of the Medici in Florence occurred in 1494, in which year Machiavelli entered the public service. During his official career Florence was free under the government of a Republic, which lasted until 1512, when the Medici returned to power, and Machiavelli lost his office. The Medici again ruled Florence from 1512 until 1527, when they were once more driven out. This was the period of Machiavelli’s literary activity and increasing influence; but he died, within a few weeks of the expulsion of the Medici, on 22nd June 1527, in his fifty-eighth year, without having regained office.
他的一生自然地分为三个时期，每个时期都构成了佛罗伦萨历史上一个独特而重要的时代。在他年轻的时候，佛罗伦萨在洛伦佐·德·美第奇的领导下成为意大利的强国。 1494 年，佛罗伦萨美第奇家族垮台，马基雅维利也在这一年进入公职。在他的官方生涯中，佛罗伦萨在共和国政府的统治下获得自由，一直持续到1512年美第奇家族重新掌权，马基雅维利失去了他的职位。美第奇家族从 1512 年再次统治佛罗伦萨，直到 1527 年再次被驱逐。这是马基雅维利文学活动和影响力日益增强的时期。但在美第奇家族被驱逐后的几周内，他于 1527 年 6 月 22 日去世，时年五十八岁，没有重新上任。

YOUTH Aet. 1-25—1469-94
青年 Aet。 1-25—1469-94

Although there is little recorded of the youth of Machiavelli, the Florence of those days is so well known that the early environment of this representative citizen may be easily imagined. Florence has been described as a city with two opposite currents of life, one directed by the fervent and austere Savonarola, the other by the splendourloving Lorenzo. Savonarola’s influence upon the young Machiavelli must have been slight, for although at one time he wielded immense power over the fortunes of Florence, he only furnished Machiavelli with a subject of a gibe in ‘The Prince,’ where he is cited as an example of an unarmed prophet who came to a bad end. Whereas the magnificence of the Medicean rule during the life of Lorenzo appeared to have impressed Machiavelli strongly, for he frequently recurs to it in his writings, and it is to Lorenzo’s grandson that he dedicates ‘The Prince.’
尽管关于马基雅维利青年时代的记载很少，但当时的佛罗伦萨却是众所周知的，以至于可以想象这位具有代表性的公民的早期环境。佛罗伦萨被描述为一座有着两种截然相反的生活潮流的城市，一种是由热情而朴素的萨沃纳罗拉领导的，另一种是由热爱辉煌的洛伦佐领导的。萨沃纳罗拉对年轻的马基雅维利的影响肯定是微乎其微的，因为尽管他一度对佛罗伦萨的命运掌握着巨大的权力，但他在《君主论》中只给马基雅维利提供了一个嘲笑的话题，他被引用为马基雅维利的一个例子。一个手无寸铁的先知，但结局很糟糕。然而，洛伦佐一生中美第奇王朝的辉煌统治似乎给马基雅维利留下了深刻的印象，因为他在自己的著作中经常提到这一点，而他也将《君主》献给了洛伦佐的孙子。

Machiavelli, in his ‘History of Florence,’ gives us a picture of the young men among whom his youth was passed. He writes: ‘They were freer than their forefathers in dress and living, and spent more in other kinds of excesses, consuming their time and money in idleness, gaming, and women; their chief aim was to appear well dressed and to speak with wit and acuteness, whilst he who could wound others the most cleverly was thought the wisest.’ In a letter to his son Guido, Machiavelli shows why youth should avail itself of its opportunities for study, and leads us to infer that his own youth had been so occupied. He writes: ‘I have received your letter, which has given me the greatest pleasure, especially because you tell me you are quite restored in health, than which I could have no better news; for if God grant life to you, and to me, I hope to make a good man of you if you are willing to do your share.’ Then, writing of a new patron, he continues: ‘This will turn out well for you, but it is necessary for you to study; since, then, you have no longer the excuse of illness, take pains to study letters and music, for you see what honour is done to me for the little skill I have. Therefore, my son, if you wish to please me, and to bring success and honour to yourself, do right and study, because others will help you if you help yourself.’
马基雅维利在他的《佛罗伦萨史》中为我们描绘了一幅他的青年时代在其中度过的年轻人的画面。他写道：“他们在衣着和生活上比他们的祖先更加自由，在其他方面花费更多，把时间和金钱消耗在无所事事、赌博和女人上；”马基雅维利在给儿子吉多的一封信中说明了为什么年轻人应该利用自己的机会研究，并让我们推断他自己的青春期就这样被占据了。他写道：“我收到了你的信，这给了我最大的高兴，特别是因为你告诉我你的健康已经完全恢复，我没有比这更好的消息了；”因为如果上帝赐予你生命，也赐予我生命，如果你愿意尽你的一份力量，我希望你能成为一个好人。”然后，在写到一位新的赞助人时，他继续说道：“这对你来说会有好处。 ，但是你学习是必要的；从此以后，你就不再以生病为借口，努力学习文学和音乐，因为你知道，我的一点点本事给我带来了多大的荣耀。因此，我的孩子，如果你想取悦我，并为自己带来成功和荣誉，那就做正确的事并学习，因为如果你帮助自己，别人也会帮助你。

OFFICE Aet. 25-43—1494-1512
办公室 Aet。 25-43—1494-1512

The second period of Machiavelli’s life was spent in the service of the free Republic of Florence, which flourished, as stated above, from the expulsion of the Medici in 1494 until their return in 1512. After serving four years in one of the public offices he was appointed Chancellor and Secretary to the Second Chancery, the Ten of Liberty and Peace. Here we are on firm ground when dealing with the events of Machiavelli’s life, for during this time he took a leading part in the affairs of the Republic, and we have its decrees, records, and dispatches to guide us, as well as his own writings. A mere recapitulation of a few of his transactions with the statesmen and soldiers of his time gives a fair indication of his activities, and supplies the sources from which he drew the experiences and characters which illustrate ‘The Prince.’
马基雅维利一生的第二个时期是在为佛罗伦萨自由共和国服务的，如上所述，从 1494 年美第奇家族被驱逐到 1512 年他们回归，佛罗伦萨自由共和国一直蓬勃发展。在一个公职部门任职四年后，他成为了佛罗伦萨的一员。被任命为第二大法官、自由与和平十人大法官兼秘书长。在这里，我们在处理马基雅维利的生活事件时有坚实的基础，因为在这段时间里，他领导了共和国的事务，我们有共和国的法令、记录和急件来指导我们，也有他自己的法令、记录和急件来指导我们。著作。只要重述他与同时代的政治家和士兵的一些往来，就可以清楚地了解他的活动，并提供他描绘“王子”的经历和人物的来源。

His first mission was in 1499 to Catherina Sforza, ‘my lady of Forli’ of ‘The Prince,’ from whose conduct and fate he drew the moral that it is far better to earn the confidence of the people than to rely on fortresses. This is a very noticeable principle in Machiavelli, and is urged by him in many ways as a matter of vital importance to princes.
1499 年，他的第一个任务是拜访“王子”中的“弗利的夫人”凯瑟琳娜·斯福尔扎，他从她的行为和命运中汲取了这样的教训：赢得人民的信任比依赖堡垒要好得多。这是马基雅维利的一个非常引人注目的原则，他在很多方面都强调这一原则对于君主来说至关重要。

In 1500 he was sent to France to obtain terms from Louis XII for continuing the war against Pisa: this king it was who, in his conduct of affairs in Italy, committed the five capital errors in statecraft summarized in ‘The Prince,’ and was consequently driven out. He, also, it was who made the dissolution of his marriage a condition of support to Pope Alexander VI; which leads Machiavelli to refer those who urge that such promises should be kept to what he has written concerning the faith of princes.
1500年，他被派往法国，向路易十二索取继续对比萨战争的条件：这位国王在意大利的事务处理中，犯下了《君主论》中总结的五个严重的治国错误，并被结果被赶了出来。他也将解除婚姻作为支持教皇亚历山大六世的条件。这导致马基雅维利将那些敦促遵守此类承诺的人引向他所写的关于君主信仰的内容。

Machiavelli’s public life was largely occupied with events arising out of the ambitions of Pope Alexander VI and his son, Cesare Borgia, the Duke Valentino, and these characters fill a large space of ‘The Prince.’ Machiavelli never hesitates to cite the actions of the duke for the benefit of usurpers who wish to keep the states they have seized; he can, indeed, find no precepts to offer so good as the pattern of Cesare Borgia’s conduct, insomuch that Cesare is acclaimed by some critics as the ‘hero’ of ‘The Prince.’ Yet in ‘The Prince’ the duke is in point of fact cited as a type of the man who rises on the fortune of others, and falls with them; who takes every course that might be expected from a prudent man but the course which will save him; who is prepared for all eventualities but the one which happens; and who, when all his abilities fail to carry him through, exclaims that it was not his fault, but an extraordinary and unforeseen fatality.
马基雅维利的公共生活主要是由教皇亚历山大六世和他的儿子切萨雷·博吉亚、瓦伦蒂诺公爵的野心所引发的事件所占据，这些人物占据了《君主》的很大一部分空间。马基雅维利毫不犹豫地引用了教皇亚历山大六世的行为。为那些希望保住他们夺取的国家的篡位者的利益而封爵；事实上，他找不到比切萨雷·博吉亚的行为模式更好的戒律，因此切萨雷被一些评论家誉为《王子》的“英雄”。然而，在《王子》中，公爵说得对。事实上，他被认为是一种依靠他人的财富而崛起，又随他人而堕落的人的典型。他采取了一个谨慎的人可能会采取的一切行动，但没有采取能够拯救他的行动；谁为所有可能发生的事情做好了准备，除了发生的那件事；当他所有的能力都无法支撑他度过难关时，他会惊呼这不是他的错，而是一场非同寻常的、不可预见的命运。

On the death of Pius III, in 1503, Machiavelli was sent to Rome to watch the election of his successor, and there he saw Cesare Borgia cheated into allowing the choice of the College to fall on Giuliano delle Rovere (Julius II), who was one of the cardinals that had most reason to fear the duke. Machiavelli, when commenting on this election, says that he who thinks new favours will cause great personages to forget old injuries deceives himself. Julius did not rest until he had ruined Cesare.
1503年庇护三世去世后，马基雅维利被派往罗马观看他的继任者的选举，在那里他看到切萨雷·博吉亚受骗，让学院的选择落到了朱利亚诺·德尔·罗韦雷（朱利叶斯二世）身上。最有理由害怕公爵的红衣主教之一。马基雅维利在评论这次选举时说，那些认为新的恩惠会让伟大人物忘记旧伤的人是在欺骗自己。尤利乌斯直到毁掉切萨雷才罢休。

It was to Julius II that Machiavelli was sent in 1506, when that pontiff was commencing his enterprise against Bologna; which he brought to a successful issue, as he did many of his other adventures, owing chiefly to his impetuous character. It is in reference to Pope Julius that Machiavelli moralizes on the resemblance between Fortune and women, and concludes that it is the bold rather than the cautious man that will win and hold them both.
1506 年，马基雅维利被派去见尤利乌斯二世，当时教皇正开始攻打博洛尼亚。正如他的许多其他冒险一样，他取得了成功，这主要归功于他鲁莽的性格。马基雅维利参考了教皇朱利叶斯，对财富与女性之间的相似性进行了道德化，并得出结论：勇敢的男人而不是谨慎的男人将赢得并控制她们。

It is impossible to follow here the varying fortunes of the Italian states, which in 1507 were controlled by France, Spain, and Germany, with results that have lasted to our day; we are concerned with those events, and with the three great actors in them, so far only as they impinge on the personality of Machiavelli. He had several meetings with Louis XII of France, and his estimate of that monarch’s character has already been alluded to. Machiavelli has painted Ferdinand of Aragon as the man who accomplished great things under the cloak of religion, but who in reality had no mercy, faith, humanity, or integrity; and who, had he allowed himself to be influenced by such motives, would have been ruined. The Emperor Maximilian was one of the most interesting men of the age, and his character has been drawn by many hands; but Machiavelli, who was an envoy at his court in 1507-8, reveals the secret of his many failures when he describes him as a secretive man, without force of character—ignoring the human agencies necessary to carry his schemes into effect, and never insisting on the fulfilment of his wishes.
在这里不可能跟踪意大利各邦的不同命运，这些邦在 1507 年被法国、西班牙和德国控制，其结果一直持续到今天。我们关心这些事件以及其中的三位伟大演员，只是因为它们对马基雅维利的个性产生了影响。他与法国国王路易十二有过几次会面，他对这位君主性格的评价已经被提及。马基雅维利将阿拉贡的斐迪南描绘成一个在宗教外衣下取得伟大成就的人，但实际上他没有怜悯、信仰、人性或正直；如果他让自己受到这种动机的影响，他就会被毁掉。马克西米利安皇帝是那个时代最有趣的人物之一，他的性格被许多人描绘过。但是，马基雅维利在 1507-8 年担任他的宫廷特使，他将马基雅维利描述为一个神秘的人，缺乏性格力量，从而揭示了他许多失败的秘密——忽视了实施他的计划所必需的人力，并且从不坚持要实现他的愿望。

The remaining years of Machiavelli’s official career were filled with events arising out of the League of Cambrai, made in 1508 between the three great European powers already mentioned and the pope, with the object of crushing the Venetian Republic. This result was attained in the battle of Vaila, when Venice lost in one day all that she had won in eight hundred years. Florence had a difficult part to play during these events, complicated as they were by the feud which broke out between the pope and the French, because friendship with France had dictated the entire policy of the Republic. When, in 1511, Julius II finally formed the Holy League against France, and with the assistance of the Swiss drove the French out of Italy, Florence lay at the mercy of the Pope, and had to submit to his terms, one of which was that the Medici should be restored. The return of the Medici to Florence on 1st September 1512, and the consequent fall of the Republic, was the signal for the dismissal of Machiavelli and his friends, and thus put an end to his public career, for, as we have seen, he died without regaining office.
马基雅维利余下的政治生涯充满了由康布雷联盟引发的事件，该联盟于 1508 年在前面提到的欧洲三大强国和教皇之间达成，目的是摧毁威尼斯共和国。这一结果是在瓦伊拉战役中取得的，当时威尼斯在一天之内失去了她八百年来所赢得的一切。佛罗伦萨在这些事件中扮演了一个困难的角色，因为教皇和法国人之间爆发的不和使事件变得复杂，因为与法国的友谊决定了共和国的整个政策。 1511年，朱利叶斯二世最终组成了对抗法国的神圣联盟，并在瑞士人的帮助下将法国人赶出了意大利，佛罗伦萨处于教皇的摆布之下，不得不服从他的条件，其中之一是美第奇家族应该被恢复。 1512 年 9 月 1 日，美第奇家族返回佛罗伦萨，以及随之而来的共和国垮台，标志着马基雅维利及其朋友被解职，从而结束了他的公共生涯，因为正如我们所见，他未复任就去世。

LITERATURE AND DEATH Aet. 43-58—1512-27
文学与死亡 Aet。 43-58—1512-27

On the return of the Medici, Machiavelli, who for a few weeks had vainly hoped to retain his office under the new masters of Florence, was dismissed by decree dated 7th November 1512. Shortly after this he was accused of complicity in an abortive conspiracy against the Medici, imprisoned, and put to the question by torture. The new Medicean people, Leo X, procured his release, and he retired to his small property at San Casciano, near Florence, where he devoted himself to literature. In a letter to Francesco Vettori, dated 13th December 1513, he has left a very interesting description of his life at this period, which elucidates his methods and his motives in writing ‘The Prince.’ After describing his daily occupations with his family and neighbours, he writes: ‘The evening being come, I return home and go to my study; at the entrance I pull off my peasantclothes, covered with dust and dirt, and put on my noble court dress, and thus becomingly re-clothed I pass into the ancient courts of the men of old, where, being lovingly received by them, I am fed with that food which is mine alone; where I do not hesitate to speak with them, and to ask for the reason of their actions, and they in their benignity answer me; and for four hours I feel no weariness, I forget every trouble, poverty does not dismay, death does not terrify me; I am possessed entirely by those great men. And because Dante says:
美第奇家族回归后，几周来，马基雅维利一直徒劳地希望在佛罗伦萨新主人的领导下保留自己的职位，但他被 1512 年 11 月 7 日的法令解雇。此后不久，他被指控参与了一场针对佛罗伦萨的阴谋，但未遂。美第奇家族被监禁，并受到严刑拷打。新的美第奇人利奥十世使他获释，他退休后回到佛罗伦萨附近圣卡夏诺的小庄园，在那里他致力于文学。在 1513 年 12 月 13 日写给弗朗西斯科·维托里的一封信中，他对这一时期的生活进行了非常有趣的描述，阐明了他写作《王子》的方法和动机。在描述了他与家人和邻居的日常活动之后他写道：“傍晚时分，我回到家去书房；在入口处，我脱下沾满灰尘和泥土的农服，换上高贵的宫廷礼服，这样我就换上了合适的衣服，走进了古代人的古老宫廷，在那里，我受到了他们的亲切接待，我吃的食物只属于我；在那里，我会毫不犹豫地与他们交谈，询问他们行为的原因，他们会善意地回答我；在这四个小时里，我没有感到疲倦，我忘记了一切烦恼，贫穷不会让我沮丧，死亡也不会吓倒我；我完全被那些伟人迷住了。因为但丁说：

Knowledge doth come of learning well retained,
知识来自良好的学习，

Unfruitful else,
别的无果，

I have noted down what I have gained from their conversation, and have composed a small work on ‘Principalities,’ where I pour myself out as fully as I can in meditation on the subject, discussing what a principality is, what kinds there are, how they can be acquired, how they can be kept, why they are lost: and if any of my fancies ever pleased you, this ought not to displease you: and to a prince, especially to a new one, it should be welcome: therefore I dedicate it to his Magnificence Giuliano. Filippo Casavecchio has seen it; he will be able to tell you what is in it, and of the discourses I have had with him; nevertheless, I am still enriching and polishing it.’
我把他们谈话的收获记下来，写了一本关于《公国》的小书，我在其中倾尽全力地思考这个问题，讨论什么是公国，有哪些种类，如何获得它们，如何保存它们，为什么会丢失它们：如果我的任何幻想曾经让您满意，这不应该让您不高兴：对于一位王子，特别是对一位新王子来说，它应该受到欢迎：因此，我将其献给伟大的朱利亚诺。菲利波·卡萨韦基奥（Filippo Casavecchio）已经看到了这一点；他将能够告诉你其中的内容以及我与他的谈话；尽管如此，我仍在不断丰富和完善它。

The ‘little book’ suffered many vicissitudes before attaining the form in which it has reached us. Various mental influences were at work during its composition; its title and patron were changed; and for some unknown reason it was finally dedicated to Lorenzo de’ Medici. Although Machiavelli discussed with Casavecchio whether it should be sent or presented in person to the patron, there is no evidence that Lorenzo ever received or even read it: he certainly never gave Machiavelli any employment. Although it was plagiarized during Machiavelli’s lifetime, ‘The Prince’ was never published by him, and its text is still disputable.
这本“小书”在达到我们所看到的形式之前经历了许多变迁。在其创作过程中，各种精神因素都在发挥作用。它的标题和赞助人发生了变化；由于某种未知的原因，它最终被献给洛伦佐·德·美第奇。尽管马基雅维利与卡萨韦基奥讨论了是否应该将其发送或亲自呈现给赞助人，但没有证据表明洛伦佐曾经收到过甚至阅读过它：他当然从未给马基雅维利任何工作。尽管马基雅维利在世时曾被抄袭，但《君主论》从未由他出版过，其文本仍然存在争议。

Machiavelli concludes his letter to Vettori thus: ‘And as to this little thing [his book], when it has been read it will be seen that during the fifteen years I have given to the study of statecraft I have neither slept nor idled; and men ought ever to desire to be served by one who has reaped experience at the expense of others. And of my loyalty none could doubt, because having always kept faith I could not now learn how to break it; for he who has been faithful and honest, as I have, cannot change his nature; and my poverty is a witness to my honesty.’
马基雅维利在写给维托里的信中这样总结道：“至于这件小事（他的书），当你读过它之后，就会发现，在我研究治国之道的十五年里，我既没有睡觉，也没有闲着；人们应该永远渴望得到一个以牺牲他人为代价获得经验的人的服务。我的忠诚无人怀疑，因为我一直坚守信念，现在却无法学会如何打破它；因为像我一样忠诚诚实的人无法改变他的本性。我的贫穷证明了我的诚实。”

Before Machiavelli had got ‘The Prince’ off his hands he commenced his ‘Discourse on the First Decade of Titus Livius,’ which should be read concurrently with ‘The Prince.’ These and several minor works occupied him until the year 1518, when he accepted a small commission to look after the affairs of some Florentine merchants at Genoa. In 1519 the Medicean rulers of Florence granted a few political concessions to her citizens, and Machiavelli with others was consulted upon a new constitution under which the Great Council was to be restored; but on one pretext or another it was not promulgated.
在马基雅维利把《君主》从他手中拿走之前，他开始了他的《提图斯·利维乌斯第一个十年的论述》，这本书应该与《君主》同时阅读。这些和几部小著作一直占据着他的时间，直到 1518 年，当他接受了一小笔委托，负责照顾热那亚的一些佛罗伦萨商人的事务。 1519年，佛罗伦萨的美第奇统治者向她的公民做出了一些政治让步，马基雅维利和其他人就一部新宪法进行了协商，根据该宪法，大议会将被恢复。但以这样或那样的借口，它没有颁布。

In 1520 the Florentine merchants again had recourse to Machiavelli to settle their difficulties with Lucca, but this year was chiefly remarkable for his re-entry into Florentine literary society, where he was much sought after, and also for the production of his ‘Art of War.’ It was in the same year that he received a commission at the instance of Cardinal de’ Medici to write the ‘History of Florence,’ a task which occupied him until 1525. His return to popular favour may have determined the Medici to give him this employment, for an old writer observes that ‘an able statesman out of work, like a huge whale, will endeavour to overturn the ship unless he has an empty cask to play with.’
1520年，佛罗伦萨商人再次求助于马基雅维利来解决他们与卢卡之间的困难，但今年最引人注目的是他重新进入佛罗伦萨文学社会，在那里他备受追捧，也因为他的《艺术的艺术》的创作。同年，他受红衣主教德·美第奇的委托，撰写《佛罗伦萨史》，这项任务一直困扰着他，直到 1525 年。他重新获得民众的青睐可能决定了美第奇家族给他这个职位，因为一位老作家评论说，“一个失业的有能力的政治家，就像一头巨大的鲸鱼，除非他有一个空木桶可以玩，否则他会努力推翻这艘船。”

When the ‘History of Florence’ was finished, Machiavelli took it to Rome for presentation to his patron, Giuliano de’ Medici, who had in the meanwhile become pope under the title of Clement VII. It is somewhat remarkable that, as, in 1513, Machiavelli had written ‘The Prince’ for the instruction of the Medici after they had just regained power in Florence, so, in 1525, he dedicated the ‘History of Florence’ to the head of the family when its ruin was now at hand. In that year the battle of Pavia destroyed the French rule in Italy, and left Francis I a prisoner in the hands of his great rival, Charles V. This was followed by the sack of Rome, upon the news of which the popular party at Florence threw off the yoke of the Medici, who were once more banished.
《佛罗伦萨史》完成后，马基雅维利将其带到罗马，向他的赞助人朱利亚诺·德·美第奇介绍，后者当时以克莱门特七世的名义成为教皇。值得注意的是，正如马基雅维利在1513年为美第奇家族在佛罗伦萨重新掌权后写下《君主论》以指导他们一样，1525年他将《佛罗伦萨史》献给了美第奇家族的元首。这个家庭现在已经濒临毁灭。那一年，帕维亚战役摧毁了法国在意大利的统治，弗朗西斯一世成为了他的劲敌查理五世的俘虏。随后罗马被洗劫，佛罗伦萨的民众党在得知这一消息后，摆脱了美第奇家族的枷锁，美第奇家族再次被流放。

Machiavelli was absent from Florence at this time, but hastened his return, hoping to secure his former office of secretary to the ‘Ten of Liberty and Peace.’ Unhappily he was taken ill soon after he reached Florence, where he died on 22nd June 1527.
马基雅维利此时不在佛罗伦萨，但他加快了返回的速度，希望保住他在“自由与和平十人”中的前秘书职位。不幸的是，他到达佛罗伦萨后不久就病倒了，并于 1527 年 6 月 22 日去世。 。

THE MAN AND HIS WORKS
这个人和他的作品

No one can say where the bones of Machiavelli rest, but modern Florence has decreed him a stately cenotaph in Santa Croce, by the side of her most famous sons; recognizing that, whatever other nations may have found in his works, Italy found in them the idea of her unity and the germs of her renaissance among the nations of Europe. Whilst it is idle to protest against the world-wide and evil signification of his name, it may be pointed out that the harsh construction of his doctrine which this sinister reputation implies was unknown to his own day, and that the researches of recent times have enabled us to interpret him more reasonably. It is due to these inquiries that the shape of an ‘unholy necromancer,’ which so long haunted men’s vision, has begun to fade.
没有人能说出马基雅维利的遗骨安息在哪里，但现代佛罗伦萨已在圣十字教堂为他立了一座庄严的纪念碑，旁边是她最著名的儿子们；认识到，无论其他国家在他的作品中发现了什么，意大利都在其中找到了她的团结理念以及她在欧洲各国中复兴的萌芽。虽然抗议他的名字在世界范围内的邪恶含义是无意义的，但可以指出的是，这种邪恶的名声所暗示的他的学说的严酷构造在他那个时代是未知的，而且最近的研究已经证实了这一点。使我们能够更加合理地解读他。正是由于这些询问，长期萦绕在人们视野中的“邪恶死灵法师”的形象开始消失。

Machiavelli was undoubtedly a man of great observation, acuteness, and industry; noting with appreciative eye whatever passed before him, and with his supreme literary gift turning it to account in his enforced retirement from affairs. He does not present himself, nor is he depicted by his contemporaries, as a type of that rare combination, the successful statesman and author, for he appears to have been only moderately prosperous in his several embassies and political employments. He was misled by Catherina Sforza, ignored by Louis XII, overawed by Cesare Borgia; several of his embassies were quite barren of results; his attempts to fortify Florence failed, and the soldiery that he raised astonished everybody by their cowardice. In the conduct of his own affairs he was timid and time-serving; he dared not appear by the side of Soderini, to whom he owed so much, for fear of compromising himself; his connection with the Medici was open to suspicion, and Giuliano appears to have recognized his real forte when he set him to write the ‘History of Florence,’ rather than employ him in the state. And it is on the literary side of his character, and there alone, that we find no weakness and no failure.
马基雅维利无疑是一个具有出色观察力、敏锐性和勤奋的人。他以欣赏的眼光注意到他面前发生的一切，并以他最高的文学天赋将其转化为他被迫退出事务的原因。他并没有将自己，也没有被他的同时代人描述为这种罕见的结合体，即成功的政治家和作家，因为他似乎只是在几次使馆和政治工作中获得了中等繁荣。他被凯瑟琳娜·斯福尔扎误导，被路易十二忽视，被切萨雷·博吉亚吓倒。他的几个使馆毫无成果。他加固佛罗伦萨的努力失败了，他所召集的士兵的胆怯让所有人都感到惊讶。在处理自己的事务时，他胆怯而守时。他不敢出现在索德里尼身边，因为他害怕自己受到损害。他与美第奇家族的关系受到怀疑，当朱利亚诺让他撰写《佛罗伦萨历史》而不是雇用他在国家工作时，似乎已经认识到他的真正优势。正是在他性格的文学方面，而且只有在这一方面，我们才发现没有弱点，也没有失败。

Although the light of almost four centuries has been focused on ‘The Prince,’ its problems are still debatable and interesting, because they are the eternal problems between the ruled and their rulers. Such as they are, its ethics are those of Machiavelli’s contemporaries; yet they cannot be said to be out of date so long as the governments of Europe rely on material rather than on moral forces. Its historical incidents and personages become interesting by reason of the uses which Machiavelli makes of them to illustrate his theories of government and conduct.
尽管近四个世纪的光芒一直集中在《王子》上，但它的问题仍然值得商榷和有趣，因为它们是被统治者和统治者之间永恒的问题。就其本质而言，它的伦理观是马基雅维利同时代人的伦理观。然而，只要欧洲政府依赖物质力量而不是道义力量，它们就不能说是过时的。由于马基雅维利利用它们来说明他的政府和行为理论，书中的历史事件和人物变得有趣。

Leaving out of consideration those maxims of state which still furnish some European and eastern statesmen with principles of action, ‘The Prince’ is bestrewn with truths that can be proved at every turn. Men are still the dupes of their simplicity and greed, as they were in the days of Alexander VI. The cloak of religion still conceals the vices which Machiavelli laid bare in the character of Ferdinand of Aragon. Men will not look at things as they really are, but as they wish them to be—and are ruined. In politics there are no perfectly safe courses; prudence consists in choosing the least dangerous ones. Then —to pass to a higher plane—Machiavelli reiterates that, although crimes may win an empire, they do not win glory. Necessary wars are just wars, and the arms of a nation are hallowed when it has no other resource but to fight.
撇开那些仍然为一些欧洲和东方政治家提供行动原则的国家格言不谈，《君主论》充满了可以在各个方面得到证明的真理。人们仍然因为自己的简单和贪婪而受骗，就像亚历山大六世时代那样。宗教的外衣仍然掩盖着马基雅维利在阿拉贡的斐迪南性格中所暴露的罪恶。人们不会按照事物的本来面目来看待事物，而是按照他们希望的方式来看待事物——结果就被毁了。在政治上，没有绝对安全的道路；谨慎在于选择最不危险的。然后——转到更高的层面——马基雅维利重申，尽管犯罪可能赢得一个帝国，但它们并不能赢得荣耀。必要的战争只是战争，当一个国家除了战斗没有其他资源时，它的武器就是神圣的。

It is the cry of a far later day than Machiavelli’s that government should be elevated into a living moral force, capable of inspiring the people with a just recognition of the fundamental principles of society; to this ‘high argument’ ‘The Prince’ contributes but little. Machiavelli always refused to write either of men or of governments otherwise than as he found them, and he writes with such skill and insight that his work is of abiding value. But what invests ‘The Prince’ with more than a merely artistic or historical interest is the incontrovertible truth that it deals with the great principles which still guide nations and rulers in their relationship with each other and their neighbours.
这是比马基雅维利晚得多的时代的呼声，即政府应该被提升为一种活生生的道德力量，能够激励人民公正地认识社会的基本原则；对于这个“高调的论点”，“王子”贡献甚微。马基雅维利总是拒绝以不同于他所发现的方式来描写人或政府，他的写作技巧和洞察力使得他的作品具有持久的价值。但赋予《君主论》不仅仅是艺术或历史兴趣的是一个无可争议的事实，即它所涉及的伟大原则仍然指导着国家和统治者之间以及邻国之间的关系。

In translating ‘The Prince’ my aim has been to achieve at all costs an exact literal rendering of the original, rather than a fluent paraphrase adapted to the modern notions of style and expression. Machiavelli was no facile phrasemonger; the conditions under which he wrote obliged him to weigh every word; his themes were lofty, his substance grave, his manner nobly plain and serious. ‘Quis eo fuit unquam in partiundis rebus, in definiendis, in explanandis pressior?’ In ‘The Prince,’ it may be truly said, there is reason assignable, not only for every word, but for the position of every word. To an Englishman of Shakespeare’s time the translation of such a treatise was in some ways a comparatively easy task, for in those times the genius of the English more nearly resembled that of the Italian language; to the Englishman of to-day it is not so simple. To take a single example: the word ‘intrattenere,’ employed by Machiavelli to indicate the policy adopted by the Roman Senate towards the weaker states of Greece, would by an Elizabethan be correctly rendered ‘entertain,’ and every contemporary reader would understand what was meant by saying that ‘Rome entertained the Aetolians and the Achaeans without augmenting their power.’ But to-day such a phrase would seem obsolete and ambiguous, if not unmeaning: we are compelled to say that ‘Rome maintained friendly relations with the Aetolians,’ etc., using four words to do the work of one. I have tried to preserve the pithy brevity of the Italian so far as was consistent with an absolute fidelity to the sense. If the result be an occasional asperity I can only hope that the reader, in his eagerness to reach the author’s meaning, may overlook the roughness of the road that leads him to it.
在翻译《王子》时，我的目标是不惜一切代价实现对原作的精确字面翻译，而不是适应现代风格和表达概念的流畅释义。马基雅维利并不是一个善于空谈的人。他写作的条件迫使他权衡每一个字。他的主题崇高，他的内容庄重，他的举止高贵朴素而严肃。 “Quis eo fuit unquam in pariundis rebus、in definiendis、in explanandis pressior？”在《王子》中，可以说，不仅每个词，而且每个词的位置都有可分配的理由。对于莎士比亚时代的英国人来说，翻译这样一篇论文在某种程度上是一项相对容易的任务，因为在那个时代，英语的天才更接近于意大利语。对于今天的英国人来说，事情就没那么简单了。举一个例子：马基雅维利用来表示罗马元老院对希腊弱国采取的政策的“intrattenere”一词，在伊丽莎白时代正确地翻译为“entertain”，每个当代读者都会明白什么是“intrattenere”。意思是说“罗马招待了埃托利亚人和亚该亚人，但没有增强他们的力量。”但今天，这样的短语即使不是没有意义，也显得过时和含糊不清：我们不得不说“罗马与埃托利亚人保持着友好关系， ’等等，用四个词来做一个词的工作。我尽力保留意大利语的精练简洁，只要与对意义的绝对忠实一致即可。如果结果是偶尔的粗暴，我只能希望读者在急切地理解作者的意思时，可以忽略引导他达到目的的道路的崎岖。

The following is a list of the works of Machiavelli:
以下是马基雅维利的著作列表：

Principal works. Discorso sopra le cose di Pisa, 1499; Del modo di trattare i popoli della Valdichiana ribellati, 1502; Del modo tenuto dal duca Valentino nell’ ammazzare Vitellozzo Vitelli, Oliverotto da Fermo, etc., 1502; Discorso sopra la provisione del danaro, 1502; Decennale primo (poem in terza rima), 1506; Ritratti delle cose dell’ Alemagna, 1508-12; Decennale secondo, 1509; Ritratti delle cose di Francia, 1510; Discorsi sopra la prima deca di T. Livio, 3 vols., 1512-17; Il Principe, 1513; Andria, comedy translated from Terence, 1513 (?); Mandragola, prose comedy in five acts, with prologue in verse, 1513; Della lingua (dialogue), 1514; Clizia, comedy in prose, 1515 (?); Belfagor arcidiavolo (novel), 1515; Asino d’oro (poem in terza rima), 1517; Dell’ arte della guerra, 1519-20; Discorso sopra il riformare lo stato di Firenze, 1520; Sommario delle cose della citta di Lucca, 1520; Vita di Castruccio Castracani da Lucca, 1520; Istorie fiorentine, 8 books, 1521-5; Frammenti storici, 1525.
校长工作。比萨的讨论，1499； Del modo di trattare i popoli della Valdichiana ribellati, 1502； Del modo tenuto dal duca Valentino nell’ ammazzare Vitellozzo Vitelli、Oliverotto da Fermo 等，1502； Discorso sopra la Provisione del danaro，1502； Decennale primo（terza rima 诗），1506； Ritratti delle cose dell’ Alemagna，1508-12；第二届十年，1509；法国的 Ritratti delle cose，1510； T. Livio 的《Discorsi sopra la prima deca di T. Livio》，第 3 卷，1512-17； 《普林西比》，1513； 《安德里亚》，喜剧，译自特伦斯，1513 年（？）； 《曼陀罗》，五幕散文喜剧，序言为诗体，1513 年； Della lingua（对话），1514； Clizia，散文喜剧，1515（？）；贝尔法格·阿奇亚沃罗（小说），1515； Asino d’oro（terza rima 诗），1517 年；戴尔的战争艺术，1519-20；佛罗伦萨现状的讨论，1520；卢卡之心的Sommario delle cose della citta di Lucca，1520；卡斯特鲁乔·卡斯特拉卡尼·达·卢卡的生活，1520；佛罗伦萨故事，8 本书，1521-5；历史框架，1525。

Other poems include Sonetti, Canzoni, Ottave, and Canti carnascialeschi.
其他诗歌包括索内蒂（Sonetti）、坎佐尼（Canzoni）、奥塔夫（Ottave）和卡纳斯西亚莱斯基（Canti carnascialeschi）。

Editions. Aldo, Venice, 1546; della Tertina, 1550; Cambiagi, Florence, 6 vols., 1782-5; dei Classici, Milan, 10 1813; Silvestri, 9 vols., 1820-2; Passerini, Fanfani, Milanesi, 6 vols. only published, 1873-7.
版本。奥尔多，威尼斯，1546 年；德拉特尔蒂纳，1550；坎比亚吉，佛罗伦萨，6 卷，1782-5； dei Classici，米兰，10 1813； Silvestri，第 9 卷，1820-2；帕塞里尼、凡凡尼、米拉内西，6 卷。仅出版，1873 年 7 月。

Minor works. Ed. F. L. Polidori, 1852; Lettere familiari, ed. E. Alvisi, 1883, 2 editions, one with excisions; Credited Writings, ed. G. Canestrini, 1857; Letters to F. Vettori, see A. Ridolfi, Pensieri intorno allo scopo di N. Machiavelli nel libro Il Principe, etc.; D. Ferrara, The Private Correspondence of Nicolo Machiavelli, 1929.
小作品。埃德。 F·L·波利多里，1852；熟悉的信，编辑。 E. Alvisi，1883 年，2 个版本，其中一个有删节；信用著作，编辑。 G.卡内斯特里尼，1857；给 F. Vettori 的信，参见 A. Ridolfi、Pensieri intorno allo scopo di N. Machiavelli nel libro Il Principe 等； D.费拉拉，《尼科洛·马基雅维利的私人信件》，1929 年。

DEDICATION
奉献精神

To the Magnificent Lorenzo Di Piero De’ Medici:
致伟大的洛伦佐·迪·皮耶罗·德·美第奇：

Those who strive to obtain the good graces of a prince are accustomed to come before him with such things as they hold most precious, or in which they see him take most delight; whence one often sees horses, arms, cloth of gold, precious stones, and similar ornaments presented to princes, worthy of their greatness.
那些努力获得王子恩宠的人习惯于带着自己最珍贵的东西或他们看到王子最高兴的东西来到他面前。人们经常看到马匹、武器、金布、宝石和类似的装饰品被赠送给王子，以配得上他们的伟大。

Desiring therefore to present myself to your Magnificence with some testimony of my devotion towards you, I have not found among my possessions anything which I hold more dear than, or value so much as, the knowledge of the actions of great men, acquired by long experience in contemporary affairs, and a continual study of antiquity; which, having reflected upon it with great and prolonged diligence, I now send, digested into a little volume, to your Magnificence.
因此，我希望向您展示我对您的忠诚，但在我的财产中，我没有发现任何东西比我长期获得的伟人行为的知识更珍贵或更有价值。当代事务的经验，以及对古代的持续研究；经过长时间的辛勤思考，我现在将其消化成一小册，寄给陛下。

And although I may consider this work unworthy of your countenance, nevertheless I trust much to your benignity that it may be acceptable, seeing that it is not possible for me to make a better gift than to offer you the opportunity of understanding in the shortest time all that I have learnt in so many years, and with so many troubles and dangers; which work I have not embellished with swelling or magnificent words, nor stuffed with rounded periods, nor with any extrinsic allurements or adornments whatever, with which so many are accustomed to embellish their works; for I have wished either that no honour should be given it, or else that the truth of the matter and the weightiness of the theme shall make it acceptable.
虽然我可能认为这项工作不值得您的赏识，但我非常相信您的善意，它可能会被接受，因为对我来说，没有什么比在最短的时间内为您提供理解的机会更好的礼物了这么多年，经历了那么多的麻烦和危险，我所学到的一切；我没有用浮夸或华丽的文字来修饰这些作品，也没有塞满圆润的句号，也没有用任何外在的诱惑或装饰来修饰，而许多人习惯用这些来修饰他们的作品。因为我希望要么不给予它任何荣誉，要么事情的真相和主题的重要性应该使它可以接受。

Nor do I hold with those who regard it as a presumption if a man of low and humble condition dare to discuss and settle the concerns of princes; because, just as those who draw landscapes place themselves below in the plain to contemplate the nature of the mountains and of lofty places, and in order to contemplate the plains place themselves upon high mountains, even so to understand the nature of the people it needs to be a prince, and to understand that if princes it needs to be of the people.
我也不同意那些认为地位卑微的人敢于讨论和解决君主的事情的人；因为，正如画山水的人置身于平地之下，才能观照山峦高处的本质；为了观照平原，必须置身于高山之上，才能了解它所需要的人的本质。成为王子，并了解如果是王子，就必须是人民的。

Take then, your Magnificence, this little gift in the spirit in which I send it; wherein, if it be diligently read and considered by you, you will learn my extreme desire that you should attain that greatness which fortune and your other attributes promise. And if your Magnificence from the summit of your greatness will sometimes turn your eyes to these lower regions, you will see how unmeritedly I suffer a great and continued malignity of fortune.
那么，陛下，本着我送出这份小礼物的精神，请收下它吧；其中，如果你认真阅读和思考，你就会了解到我的极度渴望，即你应该获得财富和其他属性所承诺的伟大。如果您的伟大顶峰有时会将您的目光转向这些较低的地区，您就会看到我是多么不值得地遭受巨大而持续的不幸。

CHAPTER I. HOW MANY KINDS OF PRINCIPALITIES THERE ARE, AND BY WHAT MEANS THEY ARE ACQUIRED
第一章 公国有多少种，以及通过什么方式获得它们

All states, all powers, that have held and hold rule over men have been and are either republics or principalities.
所有曾经对人类进行统治的国家、所有权力，要么曾经是共和国，要么现在仍然是公国。

Principalities are either hereditary, in which the family has been long established; or they are new.
公国要么是世袭的，家族早已建立；要么是世袭的。或者它们是新的。

The new are either entirely new, as was Milan to Francesco Sforza, or they are, as it were, members annexed to the hereditary state of the prince who has acquired them, as was the kingdom of Naples to that of the King of Spain.
新人要么是全新的，就像米兰对弗朗切斯科·斯福尔扎来说是全新的，要么可以说是附属于获得他们的王子世袭国家的成员，就像那不勒斯王国对西班牙国王来说一样。

Such dominions thus acquired are either accustomed to live under a prince, or to live in freedom; and are acquired either by the arms of the prince himself, or of others, or else by fortune or by ability.
这样获得的统治权要么习惯于在君主统治下生活，要么习惯于自由生活。这些东西要么是通过王子本人的武力，要么是其他人的武力，要么是靠运气或能力获得的。

CHAPTER II. CONCERNING HEREDITARY PRINCIPALITIES
第二章。关于世袭公国

I will leave out all discussion on republics, inasmuch as in another place I have written of them at length, and will address myself only to principalities. In doing so I will keep to the order indicated above, and discuss how such principalities are to be ruled and preserved.
我将省略所有关于共和政体的讨论，因为我在其他地方已经详细地写过共和政体，并且只针对公国。在此过程中，我将遵循上述顺序，并讨论如何统治和保存这些公国。

I say at once there are fewer difficulties in holding hereditary states, and those long accustomed to the family of their prince, than new ones; for it is sufficient only not to transgress the customs of his ancestors, and to deal prudently with circumstances as they arise, for a prince of average powers to maintain himself in his state, unless he be deprived of it by some extraordinary and excessive force; and if he should be so deprived of it, whenever anything sinister happens to the usurper, he will regain it.
我要说的是，与新的国家相比，维持世袭国家以及那些长期习惯于王子家族的人所面临的困难要少得多。因为，对于一个拥有中等权力的君主来说，只要不违反其祖先的习俗，并在出现情况时谨慎处理，就足以维持自己的地位，除非他被某种非凡的和过分的力量剥夺了。如果他被剥夺了这一权利，那么每当篡位者发生任何险恶的事情时，他都会重新获得它。

We have in Italy, for example, the Duke of Ferrara, who could not have withstood the attacks of the Venetians in ‘84, nor those of Pope Julius in ‘10, unless he had been long established in his dominions. For the hereditary prince has less cause and less necessity to offend; hence it happens that he will be more loved; and unless extraordinary vices cause him to be hated, it is reasonable to expect that his subjects will be naturally well disposed towards him; and in the antiquity and duration of his rule the memories and motives that make for change are lost, for one change always leaves the toothing for another.
例如，在意大利，费拉拉公爵无法抵御 84 年威尼斯人的攻击，也无法抵挡 10 年教皇朱利叶斯的攻击，除非他早已在自己的领土上站稳了脚跟。因为世袭君主没有较少的理由和较少的必要去冒犯；因此，他会更受爱戴；除非他有异常的恶习而被人憎恨，否则可以合理地预期他的臣民自然会对他有好感。在他统治的古代和持续时间里，促成变革的记忆和动机都消失了，因为一种变革总是为另一种变革留下痕迹。

CHAPTER III. CONCERNING MIXED PRINCIPALITIES
第三章。关于混合公国

But the difficulties occur in a new principality. And firstly, if it be not entirely new, but is, as it were, a member of a state which, taken collectively, may be called composite, the changes arise chiefly from an inherent difficulty which there is in all new principalities; for men change their rulers willingly, hoping to better themselves, and this hope induces them to take up arms against him who rules: wherein they are deceived, because they afterwards find by experience they have gone from bad to worse. This follows also on another natural and common necessity, which always causes a new prince to burden those who have submitted to him with his soldiery and with infinite other hardships which he must put upon his new acquisition.
但困难出现在一个新的公国。首先，如果它不是全新的，而是一个国家的成员，而这个国家从整体上来看可以被称为复合国家，那么这些变化主要是由于所有新公国都存在的固有困难而引起的。因为人们心甘情愿地更换他们的统治者，希望使自己变得更好，这种希望促使他们拿起武器反对统治者：他们被欺骗了，因为他们后来根据经验发现，他们的情况每况愈下。这还伴随着另一种自然和普遍的必然性，这种必然性总是导致新君主给那些向他屈服的人带来负担，并为他的新获得的人带来无限的其他困难。

In this way you have enemies in all those whom you have injured in seizing that principality, and you are not able to keep those friends who put you there because of your not being able to satisfy them in the way they expected, and you cannot take strong measures against them, feeling bound to them. For, although one may be very strong in armed forces, yet in entering a province one has always need of the goodwill of the natives.
这样，你在夺取那个公国的过程中伤害了所有那些你所伤害的人，你就拥有了敌人，而你也无法留住那些把你放在那里的朋友，因为你不能以他们所期望的方式满足他们，你也无法接受他们的要求。对他们采取强有力的措施，感觉对他们有约束力。因为，虽然武装力量很强，但进入一个省份，总是需要当地人的善意。

For these reasons Louis the Twelfth, King of France, quickly occupied Milan, and as quickly lost it; and to turn him out the first time it only needed Lodovico’s own forces; because those who had opened the gates to him, finding themselves deceived in their hopes of future benefit, would not endure the ill-treatment of the new prince. It is very true that, after acquiring rebellious provinces a second time, they are not so lightly lost afterwards, because the prince, with little reluctance, takes the opportunity of the rebellion to punish the delinquents, to clear out the suspects, and to strengthen himself in the weakest places. Thus to cause France to lose Milan the first time it was enough for the Duke Lodovico[*] to raise insurrections on the borders; but to cause him to lose it a second time it was necessary to bring the whole world against him, and that his armies should be defeated and driven out of Italy; which followed from the causes above mentioned.
由于这些原因，法国国王路易十二很快占领了米兰，又很快失去了它。第一次只需洛多维科自己的部队就可以把他赶出去。因为那些向他敞开大门的人发现自己对未来利益的希望受到了欺骗，因此无法忍受新王子的虐待。确实，第二次夺取叛乱省份后，后来的损失就不那么轻了，因为王子毫不犹豫地借叛乱之机，惩治了不法之徒，清除了嫌疑，加强了实力。自己在最薄弱的地方。因此，洛多维科公爵在边境发动起义就足以让法国第一次失去米兰。但要使他第二次失败，就必须让全世界都来反对他，他的军队必须被击败并被赶出意大利。这是由上述原因造成的。

[*] Duke Lodovico was Lodovico Moro, a son of Francesco Sforza, who married Beatrice d’Este. He ruled over Milan from 1494 to 1500, and died in 1510.
[*]洛多维科公爵是洛多维科·莫罗，弗朗西斯科·斯福尔扎的儿子，他与比阿特丽斯·德·埃斯特结婚。他从1494年到1500年统治米兰，并于1510年去世。

Nevertheless Milan was taken from France both the first and the second time. The general reasons for the first have been discussed; it remains to name those for the second, and to see what resources he had, and what any one in his situation would have had for maintaining himself more securely in his acquisition than did the King of France.
尽管如此，米兰第一次和第二次都是从法国手中夺走的。第一个的一般原因已经讨论过；剩下的就是为第二个列出这些，并看看他拥有什么资源，以及任何一个在他的情况下会拥有什么来比法国国王更安全地维持自己的收购。

Now I say that those dominions which, when acquired, are added to an ancient state by him who acquires them, are either of the same country and language, or they are not. When they are, it is easier to hold them, especially when they have not been accustomed to selfgovernment; and to hold them securely it is enough to have destroyed the family of the prince who was ruling them; because the two peoples, preserving in other things the old conditions, and not being unlike in customs, will live quietly together, as one has seen in Brittany, Burgundy, Gascony, and Normandy, which have been bound to France for so long a time: and, although there may be some difference in language, nevertheless the customs are alike, and the people will easily be able to get on amongst themselves. He who has annexed them, if he wishes to hold them, has only to bear in mind two considerations: the one, that the family of their former lord is extinguished; the other, that neither their laws nor their taxes are altered, so that in a very short time they will become entirely one body with the old principality.
现在我说，那些在获得后由获得者将其添加到古代国家的领土，要么属于同一国家和语言，要么不同。当他们这样做时，控制他们就更容易了，特别是当他们还不习惯自治时；为了牢牢地控制他们，只要消灭统治他们的王子的家族就足够了。因为两国人民在其他方面都保留着旧有的条件，在习俗上也没有什么不同，他们将安静地生活在一起，正如人们在布列塔尼、勃艮第、加斯科尼和诺曼底所看到的那样，这些地区长期以来一直与法国联系在一起：而且，虽然语言上可能存在一些差异，但风俗习惯相似，人们很容易相处。吞并它们的人，如果想占有它们，只需要考虑两个因素：一是它们的前主的家族已经灭亡；二是它们的前主的家族已经灭亡了。另一方面，他们的法律和税收都不会改变，以便在很短的时间内他们将与旧公国完全成为一个整体。

But when states are acquired in a country differing in language, customs, or laws, there are difficulties, and good fortune and great energy are needed to hold them, and one of the greatest and most real helps would be that he who has acquired them should go and reside there. This would make his position more secure and durable, as it has made that of the Turk in Greece, who, notwithstanding all the other measures taken by him for holding that state, if he had not settled there, would not have been able to keep it. Because, if one is on the spot, disorders are seen as they spring up, and one can quickly remedy them; but if one is not at hand, they are heard of only when they are great, and then one can no longer remedy them. Besides this, the country is not pillaged by your officials; the subjects are satisfied by prompt recourse to the prince; thus, wishing to be good, they have more cause to love him, and wishing to be otherwise, to fear him. He who would attack that state from the outside must have the utmost caution; as long as the prince resides there it can only be wrested from him with the greatest difficulty.
但是，当在一个语言、习俗或法律不同的国家取得国家时，就会遇到困难，需要好运气和巨大的精力来维持它们，而最大和最实际的帮助之一就是取得国家的人应该去那里居住。这将使他的地位更加安全和持久，就像土耳其人在希腊的地位一样，尽管他采取了所有其他措施来维持这个国家，但如果他没有在那里定居，他就无法保住这个国家。它。因为，只要在现场，毛病一出现就可以看到，很快就能纠正；但如果不在身边，只有到了伟大的时候才被听到，然后就无法补救了。除此之外，国家不被你的官员掠夺；臣民们因及时求助于王子而感到满意。因此，希望为善，他们更有理由爱他，而希望为善，他们更有理由害怕他。从外部攻击那个国家的人必须极其谨慎。只要王子还住在那里，就很难从他手中夺取它。

The other and better course is to send colonies to one or two places, which may be as keys to that state, for it is necessary either to do this or else to keep there a great number of cavalry and infantry. A prince does not spend much on colonies, for with little or no expense he can send them out and keep them there, and he offends a minority only of the citizens from whom he takes lands and houses to give them to the new inhabitants; and those whom he offends, remaining poor and scattered, are never able to injure him; whilst the rest being uninjured are easily kept quiet, and at the same time are anxious not to err for fear it should happen to them as it has to those who have been despoiled. In conclusion, I say that these colonies are not costly, they are more faithful, they injure less, and the injured, as has been said, being poor and scattered, cannot hurt. Upon this, one has to remark that men ought either to be well treated or crushed, because they can avenge themselves of lighter injuries, of more serious ones they cannot; therefore the injury that is to be done to a man ought to be of such a kind that one does not stand in fear of revenge.
另一种更好的做法是向一两个地方派遣殖民地，这可能是该国家的关键，因为要么这样做，要么在那里保留大量的骑兵和步兵。君主不会在殖民地上花太多钱，因为他只需很少的费用或根本不需要费用，就可以将它们送出并留在那里，他只得罪了少数公民，他从这些公民那里夺取土地和房屋，将它们送给新居民；他所触犯的人，虽然贫穷分散，却不能伤害他。而其余未受伤的人很容易保持安静，同时又急于避免犯错，因为担心这种事会发生在他们身上，就像发生在那些被掠夺的人身上一样。总而言之，我说这些殖民地成本不高，更忠诚，伤害更少，而受伤的人，正如前面所说的那样，贫穷而分散，无法伤害。就此而言，我们必须指出，男人要么应该受到良好的对待，要么应该被镇压，因为他们可以为较轻的伤害报仇，但他们不能为较严重的伤害报仇。因此，对一个人造成的伤害应该是一种不会害怕报复的伤害。

But in maintaining armed men there in place of colonies one spends much more, having to consume on the garrison all the income from the state, so that the acquisition turns into a loss, and many more are exasperated, because the whole state is injured; through the shifting of the garrison up and down all become acquainted with hardship, and all become hostile, and they are enemies who, whilst beaten on their own ground, are yet able to do hurt. For every reason, therefore, such guards are as useless as a colony is useful.
但是，在维持武装人员代替殖民地方面，人们要花更多的钱，不得不把国家的所有收入都花在驻军上，这样，获得的收入就变成了损失，更多的人感到愤怒，因为整个国家都受到了伤害；因驻军上下的调换，皆尝苦，皆敌，是敌，虽在自己的地盘上被打，却能伤人。因此，无论出于何种原因，这些守卫都毫无用处，正如殖民地的有用之处一样。

Again, the prince who holds a country differing in the above respects ought to make himself the head and defender of his less powerful neighbours, and to weaken the more powerful amongst them, taking care that no foreigner as powerful as himself shall, by any accident, get a footing there; for it will always happen that such a one will be introduced by those who are discontented, either through excess of ambition or through fear, as one has seen already. The Romans were brought into Greece by the Aetolians; and in every other country where they obtained a footing they were brought in by the inhabitants. And the usual course of affairs is that, as soon as a powerful foreigner enters a country, all the subject states are drawn to him, moved by the hatred which they feel against the ruling power. So that in respect to those subject states he has not to take any trouble to gain them over to himself, for the whole of them quickly rally to the state which he has acquired there. He has only to take care that they do not get hold of too much power and too much authority, and then with his own forces, and with their goodwill, he can easily keep down the more powerful of them, so as to remain entirely master in the country. And he who does not properly manage this business will soon lose what he has acquired, and whilst he does hold it he will have endless difficulties and troubles.
再说一次，如果君主拥有一个在上述方面不同的国家，他就应该让自己成为实力较弱的邻国的领袖和保护者，并削弱他们中实力较强的国家，同时要注意，任何像他一样强大的外国人都不会出现意外情况。 ，在那里站稳脚跟；因为总是会出现这样的情况：那些不满的人要么出于野心勃勃，要么出于恐惧，会引入这样的人，正如人们已经看到的那样。罗马人被埃托利亚人带入希腊。在他们获得立足点的每一个其他国家，他们都被居民带进来。通常的情况是，一旦一个强大的外国人进入一个国家，所有附属国都会被他对统治力量的仇恨所吸引。因此，对于这些主体状态，他不必花费任何麻烦来将它们夺取到自己手中，因为所有这些状态很快就会聚集到他在那里获得的状态。他只要注意不要让他们掌握太多的权力和权威，然后凭借自己的力量，凭借他们的善意，就可以轻松压倒他们中更强大的人，从而保持完全的主人地位。在国内。经营不善的人很快就会失去他所获得的东西，即使他拥有了它，他也会遇到无尽的困难和麻烦。

The Romans, in the countries which they annexed, observed closely these measures; they sent colonies and maintained friendly relations with[*] the minor powers, without increasing their strength; they kept down the greater, and did not allow any strong foreign powers to gain authority. Greece appears to me sufficient for an example. The Achaeans and Aetolians were kept friendly by them, the kingdom of Macedonia was humbled, Antiochus was driven out; yet the merits of the Achaeans and Aetolians never secured for them permission to increase their power, nor did the persuasions of Philip ever induce the Romans to be his friends without first humbling him, nor did the influence of Antiochus make them agree that he should retain any lordship over the country. Because the Romans did in these instances what all prudent princes ought to do, who have to regard not only present troubles, but also future ones, for which they must prepare with every energy, because, when foreseen, it is easy to remedy them; but if you wait until they approach, the medicine is no longer in time because the malady has become incurable; for it happens in this, as the physicians say it happens in hectic fever, that in the beginning of the malady it is easy to cure but difficult to detect, but in the course of time, not having been either detected or treated in the beginning, it becomes easy to detect but difficult to cure. This it happens in affairs of state, for when the evils that arise have been foreseen (which it is only given to a wise man to see), they can be quickly redressed, but when, through not having been foreseen, they have been permitted to grow in a way that every one can see them, there is no longer a remedy. Therefore, the Romans, foreseeing troubles, dealt with them at once, and, even to avoid a war, would not let them come to a head, for they knew that war is not to be avoided, but is only to be put off to the advantage of others; moreover they wished to fight with Philip and Antiochus in Greece so as not to have to do it in Italy; they could have avoided both, but this they did not wish; nor did that ever please them which is for ever in the mouths of the wise ones of our time:—Let us enjoy the benefits of the time—but rather the benefits of their own valour and prudence, for time drives everything before it, and is able to bring with it good as well as evil, and evil as well as good.
罗马人在其吞并的国家中严格遵守这些措施。他们派遣殖民地并与小国保持友好关系，但没有增强实力；他们压制大权，不让任何外国势力得逞。在我看来，希腊就是一个足够的例子。他们与亚该亚人和埃托利亚人保持友好关系，马其顿王国被削弱，安条克被驱逐。然而，亚该亚人和埃托利亚人的功绩从来没有为他们赢得增加权力的许可，腓力的劝说也没有说服罗马人在不先羞辱他的情况下成为他的朋友，安提阿古的影响也没有使他们同意他应该保留对国家的任何主权。因为罗马人在这些情况下做了所有精明的君主应该做的事情，他们不仅要考虑当前的麻烦，而且还要考虑未来的麻烦，他们必须为此做好一切准备，因为一旦预见，就很容易补救；但如果等到他们来了，药物就来不及了，因为疾病已经无法治愈。因为它发生在这种情况下，正如医生所说，它发生在潮热中，在疾病开始时，很容易治愈，但很难发现，但随着时间的推移，一开始既没有被发现也没有治疗，它变得容易发现但很难治愈。这种情况发生在国家事务中，因为当所出现的祸患被预见到时（只有智者才能看到），它们可以很快得到纠正，但当由于没有预见到而被允许时要以所有人都能看到的方式成长，已经没有任何补救办法了。 因此，罗马人预见到了麻烦，就立即处理了它们，甚至为了避免战争，也不让它们发展到紧要关头，因为他们知道战争是无法避免的，而只能是推迟到最后一刻。他人的优点；此外，他们希望在希腊与腓力和安提阿古作战，这样就不必在意大利作战。他们本来可以避免这两种情况，但他们并不希望这样做。我们这个时代的智者口中永远没有让他们高兴的一句话：——让我们享受时代的好处——而是享受他们自己的勇敢和谨慎的好处，因为时间驱动着它面前的一切，并且既能带来善，也能带来恶；能带来善，也能带来恶。

[*] See remark in the introduction on the word ‘intrattenere.’
[*] 请参阅简介中关于“intrattenere”一词的评论。

But let us turn to France and inquire whether she has done any of the things mentioned. I will speak of Louis[*] (and not of Charles[+]) as the one whose conduct is the better to be observed, he having held possession of Italy for the longest period; and you will see that he has done the opposite to those things which ought to be done to retain a state composed of divers elements.
但让我们转向法国，询问她是否做过上述任何事情。我会说路易[*]（而不是查理[+]）是行为最值得观察的人，他占领意大利的时间最长。你会看到他做了与维持一个由多种元素组成的状态所应该做的事情相反的事情。

[*] Louis XII, King of France, ‘The Father of the People,’ born 1462, died 1515.
[*] 路易十二，法国国王，“人民之父”，生于 1462 年，卒于 1515 年。

[+] Charles VIII, King of France, born 1470, died 1498.
[+] 查理八世，法国国王，生于 1470 年，卒于 14​​98 年。

King Louis was brought into Italy by the ambition of the Venetians, who desired to obtain half the state of Lombardy by his intervention. I will not blame the course taken by the king, because, wishing to get a foothold in Italy, and having no friends there—seeing rather that every door was shut to him owing to the conduct of Charles—he was forced to accept those friendships which he could get, and he would have succeeded very quickly in his design if in other matters he had not made some mistakes. The king, however, having acquired Lombardy, regained at once the authority which Charles had lost: Genoa yielded; the Florentines became his friends; the Marquess of Mantua, the Duke of Ferrara, the Bentivogli, my lady of Forli, the Lords of Faenza, of Pesaro, of Rimini, of Camerino, of Piombino, the Lucchese, the Pisans, the Sienese—everybody made advances to him to become his friend. Then could the Venetians realize the rashness of the course taken by them, which, in order that they might secure two towns in Lombardy, had made the king master of two-thirds of Italy.
路易国王因威尼斯人的野心而被带入意大利，威尼斯人希望通过他的干预获得伦巴第的一半领土。我不会责怪国王所采取的做法，因为他希望在意大利立足，但在那里没有朋友——相反，由于查理的行为，所有的大门都对他关闭了——他被迫接受了这些友谊如果他在其他事情上没有犯一些错误的话，他的设计很快就会成功。然而，国王在获得了伦巴第后，立即恢复了查理失去的权威：热那亚投降了；热那亚投降了。佛罗伦萨人成了他的朋友；曼图亚侯爵、费拉拉公爵、本蒂沃利家族、弗利夫人、法恩扎贵族、佩萨罗贵族、里米尼贵族、卡梅里诺贵族、皮翁比诺贵族、卢凯人、比萨人、锡耶纳人——每个人都向他示好成为他的朋友。到那时，威尼斯人就会意识到他们所采取的行动是多么鲁莽，他们为了获得伦巴第的两个城镇，而让国王掌握了意大利三分之二的领土。

Let any one now consider with that little difficulty the king could have maintained his position in Italy had he observed the rules above laid down, and kept all his friends secure and protected; for although they were numerous they were both weak and timid, some afraid of the Church, some of the Venetians, and thus they would always have been forced to stand in with him, and by their means he could easily have made himself secure against those who remained powerful. But he was no sooner in Milan than he did the contrary by assisting Pope Alexander to occupy the Romagna. It never occurred to him that by this action he was weakening himself, depriving himself of friends and of those who had thrown themselves into his lap, whilst he aggrandized the Church by adding much temporal power to the spiritual, thus giving it greater authority. And having committed this prime error, he was obliged to follow it up, so much so that, to put an end to the ambition of Alexander, and to prevent his becoming the master of Tuscany, he was himself forced to come into Italy.
现在让任何人考虑一下，如果国王遵守上述规定，并保证所有朋友的安全和保护，他本可以在意大利维持自己的地位，这是一个小小的困难；因为虽然他们人数众多，但他们都软弱而胆怯，有些人害怕教会，有些人害怕威尼斯人，因此他们总是被迫与他站在一起，通过他们的手段，他可以轻松地确保自己免受那些人的侵害。谁仍然强大。但他一到米兰就反其道而行之，协助教皇亚历山大占领罗马涅。他从来没有想到，通过这一行动，他削弱了自己，剥夺了自己的朋友和那些投身于他怀抱的人，同时他通过在精神上增加了许多世俗权力，从而赋予了教会更大的权威，从而壮大了教会。既然犯了这个重大错误，他就不得不继续犯下去，以至于为了结束亚历山大的野心，为了阻止他成为托斯卡纳的主人，他自己被迫进入意大利。

And as if it were not enough to have aggrandized the Church, and deprived himself of friends, he, wishing to have the kingdom of Naples, divides it with the King of Spain, and where he was the prime arbiter in Italy he takes an associate, so that the ambitious of that country and the malcontents of his own should have somewhere to shelter; and whereas he could have left in the kingdom his own pensioner as king, he drove him out, to put one there who was able to drive him, Louis, out in turn.
似乎仅仅扩张教会并剥夺自己的朋友还不够，他希望拥有那不勒斯王国，将其与西班牙国王瓜分，而他在意大利担任首席仲裁者时，又找了一个助手，让那个国家的野心家和本国的不满者有一个容身之所；尽管他本可以把自己的养老金领取者留在王国里当国王，但他把他赶了出去，并在那里安排了一个能够把他赶走的人，路易，轮流赶走他。

The wish to acquire is in truth very natural and common, and men always do so when they can, and for this they will be praised not blamed; but when they cannot do so, yet wish to do so by any means, then there is folly and blame. Therefore, if France could have attacked Naples with her own forces she ought to have done so; if she could not, then she ought not to have divided it. And if the partition which she made with the Venetians in Lombardy was justified by the excuse that by it she got a foothold in Italy, this other partition merited blame, for it had not the excuse of that necessity.
事实上，获得的愿望是非常自然和普遍的，人们总是在力所能及的情况下这样做，为此他们会受到赞扬而不是指责。但当他们不能这样做，却希望以任何方式这样做时，那就是愚蠢和指责。因此，如果法国能够用自己的军队进攻那不​​勒斯，她就应该这么做；但如果法国能够用自己的军队进攻那不​​勒斯，那么她就应该这样做。如果她不能，那么她就不应该分割它。如果说她在伦巴第与威尼斯人的分治是以她在意大利获得立足点为借口的，那么另一次分治就应该受到指责，因为它没有这种必要性的借口。

Therefore Louis made these five errors: he destroyed the minor powers, he increased the strength of one of the greater powers in Italy, he brought in a foreign power, he did not settle in the country, he did not send colonies. Which errors, had he lived, were not enough to injure him had he not made a sixth by taking away their dominions from the Venetians; because, had he not aggrandized the Church, nor brought Spain into Italy, it would have been very reasonable and necessary to humble them; but having first taken these steps, he ought never to have consented to their ruin, for they, being powerful, would always have kept off others from designs on Lombardy, to which the Venetians would never have consented except to become masters themselves there; also because the others would not wish to take Lombardy from France in order to give it to the Venetians, and to run counter to both they would not have had the courage.
因此路易犯了这五个错误：他消灭了小国，他增强了意大利一个大国的实力，他引入了外国势力，他没有在该国定居，他没有派遣殖民地。如果他没有犯下第六个错误，从威尼斯人手中夺走他们的领土，那么即使他犯了这些错误，也不足以伤害他。因为，如果他没有扩张教会，也没有把西班牙带入意大利，那么贬低他们就是非常合理和必要的。但既然他首先采取了这些步骤，他就不应该同意他们的毁灭，因为他们强大，总是会阻止其他人对伦巴第的图谋，而威尼斯人永远不会同意他们的计划，除非自己成为那里的主人。还因为其他人不希望从法国夺取伦巴第并将其交给威尼斯人，而且他们也没有勇气与这两者背道而驰。

And if any one should say: ‘King Louis yielded the Romagna to Alexander and the kingdom to Spain to avoid war, I answer for the reasons given above that a blunder ought never to be perpetrated to avoid war, because it is not to be avoided, but is only deferred to your disadvantage. And if another should allege the pledge which the king had given to the Pope that he would assist him in the enterprise, in exchange for the dissolution of his marriage[*] and for the cap to Rouen,[+] to that I reply what I shall write later on concerning the faith of princes, and how it ought to be kept.
如果有人说：“路易国王为了避免战争而将罗马涅让给了亚历山大，把王国让给了西班牙，那么我的回答是，基于上面给出的理由，决不应该为了避免战争而犯下错误，因为战争是无法避免的。” ，但只会对你不利。如果另一个人声称国王向教皇做出的保证，即他将协助他的事业，以换取解除他的婚姻[*]和鲁昂的帽子，[+]对此我的回答是：我稍后会写关于君主的信仰，以及应该如何保持它的内容。

[*] Louis XII divorced his wife, Jeanne, daughter of Louis XI, and married in 1499 Anne of Brittany, widow of Charles VIII, in order to retain the Duchy of Brittany for the crown.
[*] 路易十二与他的妻子路易十一的女儿珍妮离婚，并于1499年与查理八世的遗孀布列塔尼的安妮结婚，以保留布列塔尼公国作为王位。

[+] The Archbishop of Rouen. He was Georges d’Amboise, created a cardinal by Alexander VI. Born 1460, died 1510.
[+] 鲁昂大主教。他就是乔治·德·安布瓦斯，由亚历山大六世任命为红衣主教。生于 1460 年，卒于 1510 年。

Thus King Louis lost Lombardy by not having followed any of the conditions observed by those who have taken possession of countries and wished to retain them. Nor is there any miracle in this, but much that is reasonable and quite natural. And on these matters I spoke at Nantes with Rouen, when Valentino, as Cesare Borgia, the son of Pope Alexander, was usually called, occupied the Romagna, and on Cardinal Rouen observing to me that the Italians did not understand war, I replied to him that the French did not understand statecraft, meaning that otherwise they would not have allowed the Church to reach such greatness. And in fact is has been seen that the greatness of the Church and of Spain in Italy has been caused by France, and her ruin may be attributed to them. From this a general rule is drawn which never or rarely fails: that he who is the cause of another becoming powerful is ruined; because that predominancy has been brought about either by astuteness or else by force, and both are distrusted by him who has been raised to power.
因此，路易国王因为没有遵循那些占领并希望保留这些国家的人所遵守的任何条件而失去了伦巴第。这也不是什么奇迹，但很多都是合理且自然的。关于这些问题，我在南特与鲁昂进行了交谈，当时瓦伦蒂诺（通常被称为教皇亚历山大之子切萨雷·博吉亚）占领了罗马涅，当红衣主教鲁昂向我指出意大利人不懂战争时，我回答说：他认为法国人不懂治国之道，否则他们不会让教会达到如此伟大的程度。事实上，我们已经看到，意大利教会和西班牙的伟大是由法国造成的，而她的毁灭也可能归咎于他们。由此得出一条永远不会或很少失败的一般规则：导致他人变得强大的人就会被毁灭；因为这种统治地位要么是靠精明，要么是靠武力，而掌握权力的人对这两种情况都不信任。

CHAPTER IV. WHY THE KINGDOM OF DARIUS, CONQUERED BY ALEXANDER, DID NOT REBEL AGAINST THE SUCCESSORS OF ALEXANDER AT HIS DEATH
第四章。为什么被亚历山大征服的大流士王国在亚历山大死后没有反抗他的继承者

Considering the difficulties which men have had to hold to a newly acquired state, some might wonder how, seeing that Alexander the Great became the master of Asia in a few years, and died whilst it was scarcely settled (whence it might appear reasonable that the whole empire would have rebelled), nevertheless his successors maintained themselves, and had to meet no other difficulty than that which arose among themselves from their own ambitions.
考虑到人们必须维持一个新获得的国家所面临的困难，有些人可能会想知道，亚历山大大帝在几年之内就成为了亚洲的主人，并且在亚洲刚刚建立起来的时候就去世了（因此，亚历山大大帝在亚洲刚刚建立起来的时候就去世了（因此，亚历山大大帝是如何做到这一点的）整个帝国都会叛乱），但他的继承者们仍然坚持自己的立场，除了因自己的野心而在他们之间产生的困难之外，没有遇到任何其他困难。

I answer that the principalities of which one has record are found to be governed in two different ways; either by a prince, with a body of servants, who assist him to govern the kingdom as ministers by his favour and permission; or by a prince and barons, who hold that dignity by antiquity of blood and not by the grace of the prince. Such barons have states and their own subjects, who recognize them as lords and hold them in natural affection. Those states that are governed by a prince and his servants hold their prince in more consideration, because in all the country there is no one who is recognized as superior to him, and if they yield obedience to another they do it as to a minister and official, and they do not bear him any particular affection.
我的回答是，有记录的公国都以两种不同的方式进行统治：要么是由一位王子和一群仆人组成，这些仆人在他的青睐和许可下作为大臣协助他治理国家；或者由王子和男爵授予，他们通过古老的血缘而不是王子的恩典来保持这种尊严。这些贵族拥有国家和自己的臣民，臣民承认他们为领主，并对他们怀有天然的感情。君主及其臣仆统治的国家，更重视君主，因为全国没有人被认为比他更高，如果他们屈服于另一个人，那就是像臣下一样官员，他们对他没有任何特殊的感情。

The examples of these two governments in our time are the Turk and the King of France. The entire monarchy of the Turk is governed by one lord, the others are his servants; and, dividing his kingdom into sanjaks, he sends there different administrators, and shifts and changes them as he chooses. But the King of France is placed in the midst of an ancient body of lords, acknowledged by their own subjects, and beloved by them; they have their own prerogatives, nor can the king take these away except at his peril. Therefore, he who considers both of these states will recognize great difficulties in seizing the state of the Turk, but, once it is conquered, great ease in holding it. The causes of the difficulties in seizing the kingdom of the Turk are that the usurper cannot be called in by the princes of the kingdom, nor can he hope to be assisted in his designs by the revolt of those whom the lord has around him. This arises from the reasons given above; for his ministers, being all slaves and bondmen, can only be corrupted with great difficulty, and one can expect little advantage from them when they have been corrupted, as they cannot carry the people with them, for the reasons assigned. Hence, he who attacks the Turk must bear in mind that he will find him united, and he will have to rely more on his own strength than on the revolt of others; but, if once the Turk has been conquered, and routed in the field in such a way that he cannot replace his armies, there is nothing to fear but the family of this prince, and, this being exterminated, there remains no one to fear, the others having no credit with the people; and as the conqueror did not rely on them before his victory, so he ought not to fear them after it.
我们这个时代这两个政府的例子是土耳其人和法国国王。土耳其的整个君主政体由一位领主统治，其他人都是他的仆人；他将他的王国划分为多个桑贾克（sanjaks），并派遣不同的行政官员到那里，并根据他的选择对他们进行轮换和改变。但法国国王被置于一个古老的贵族团体之中，受到他们自己的臣民的承认和爱戴。他们有自己的特权，国王也不能剥夺这些特权，除非他自己承担风险。因此，凡是考虑到这两个国家的人都会认识到，夺取突厥的国家是非常困难的，但一旦征服了它，守住它就很容易了。夺取突厥王国之所以困难重重，是因为篡位者无法得到王国诸侯的召见，也无法指望领主身边的叛乱能够帮助他实现自己的计划。这是由上述原因引起的；因为他的大臣们都是奴隶和奴仆，要想腐化是非常困难的，当他们腐化之后，人们就不能指望从他们那里得到什么好处，因为由于指定的原因，他们不能带着人民一起走。因此，进攻土耳其人的人必须记住，他会发现土耳其人是团结的，他将不得不更多地依靠自己的力量，而不是其他人的反抗；但是，一旦土耳其人被征服，在战场上被击溃，以致他无法取代他的军队，那么除了这个王子的家族之外，就没有什么可害怕的了，而且，这个家族被消灭了，就再也没有人可以害怕了。 ，其他在人民中没有信用的人；由于征服者在胜利之前并不依赖它们，因此在胜利之后他也不应该害怕它们。

The contrary happens in kingdoms governed like that of France, because one can easily enter there by gaining over some baron of the kingdom, for one always finds malcontents and such as desire a change. Such men, for the reasons given, can open the way into the state and render the victory easy; but if you wish to hold it afterwards, you meet with infinite difficulties, both from those who have assisted you and from those you have crushed. Nor is it enough for you to have exterminated the family of the prince, because the lords that remain make themselves the heads of fresh movements against you, and as you are unable either to satisfy or exterminate them, that state is lost whenever time brings the opportunity.
相反的情况发生在像法国那样统治的王国中，因为人们可以通过征服王国的某些男爵而轻松地进入那里，因为人们总是会发现不满情绪，例如渴望改变。这样的人，由于上述的原因，可以打开进入国家的道路，使胜利变得容易；但如果你事后想保住它，你就会遇到无限的困难，这些困难来自那些帮助过你的人，也来自那些被你压垮的人。你仅仅消灭了王子的家族也是不够的，因为剩下的领主们使自己成为反对你的新运动的领导者，而你既无法满足也无法消灭他们，每当时间到来时，这种状态就会消失。机会。

Now if you will consider what was the nature of the government of Darius, you will find it similar to the kingdom of the Turk, and therefore it was only necessary for Alexander, first to overthrow him in the field, and then to take the country from him. After which victory, Darius being killed, the state remained secure to Alexander, for the above reasons. And if his successors had been united they would have enjoyed it securely and at their ease, for there were no tumults raised in the kingdom except those they provoked themselves.
现在，如果你考虑一下大流士政府的性质，你会发现它与土耳其王国相似，因此亚历山大只需首先在战场上推翻他，然后夺取该国从他身上。这场胜利之后，大流士被杀，由于上述原因，亚历山大的国家仍然安全。如果他的继任者团结起来，他们就会安全而轻松地享受它，因为除了他们自己挑起的骚乱之外，王国里没有发生任何骚乱。

But it is impossible to hold with such tranquillity states constituted like that of France. Hence arose those frequent rebellions against the Romans in Spain, France, and Greece, owing to the many principalities there were in these states, of which, as long as the memory of them endured, the Romans always held an insecure possession; but with the power and long continuance of the empire the memory of them passed away, and the Romans then became secure possessors. And when fighting afterwards amongst themselves, each one was able to attach to himself his own parts of the country, according to the authority he had assumed there; and the family of the former lord being exterminated, none other than the Romans were acknowledged.
但像法国那样的国家不可能保持如此平静。因此，西班牙、法国和希腊发生了针对罗马人的频繁叛乱，因为这些国家有许多公国，只要人们对它们的记忆存在，罗马人就始终拥有不安全的占有权。但随着帝国的强大和长期存在，对他们的记忆逐渐消失，罗马人成为了可靠的拥有者。当后来他们之间发生争斗时，每个人都能够根据他在当地所拥有的权威，将自己的部分归属于自己。前任领主的家族被消灭，除了罗马人之外，没有其他人被承认。

When these things are remembered no one will marvel at the ease with which Alexander held the Empire of Asia, or at the difficulties which others have had to keep an acquisition, such as Pyrrhus and many more; this is not occasioned by the little or abundance of ability in the conqueror, but by the want of uniformity in the subject state.
当人们回想起这些事情时，没有人会惊讶于亚历山大如此轻松地控制了亚洲帝国，也不会惊讶于其他人（例如皮洛士等人）为了保住所获得的东西而遇到的困难。造成这种情况的原因并不是征服者的能力太少或太丰富，而是因为被征服者的国家缺乏统一性。

CHAPTER V. CONCERNING THE WAY TO GOVERN CITIES OR PRINCIPALITIES WHICH LIVED UNDER THEIR OWN LAWS BEFORE THEY WERE ANNEXED
第五章 关于被吞并之前按照自己的法律生活的城市或公国的治理方式

Whenever those states which have been acquired as stated have been accustomed to live under their own laws and in freedom, there are three courses for those who wish to hold them: the first is to ruin them, the next is to reside there in person, the third is to permit them to live under their own laws, drawing a tribute, and establishing within it an oligarchy which will keep it friendly to you. Because such a government, being created by the prince, knows that it cannot stand without his friendship and interest, and does it utmost to support him; and therefore he who would keep a city accustomed to freedom will hold it more easily by the means of its own citizens than in any other way.
每当那些已经获得的国家已经习惯于在自己的法律下自由地生活时，对于那些想要拥有它们的人来说，有三种路线：第一是摧毁它们，第二是亲自居住在那里，第三是允许他们按照自己的法律生活，征收贡品，并在其中建立一个寡头政治，使其对你保持友好。因为这样的政府是由君主创建的，知道它离不开他的友谊和利益，并且竭尽全力支持他；因此，如果一个人想要维持一个习惯于自由的城市，那么通过其自己的公民的手段比其他任何方式都更容易维持它。

There are, for example, the Spartans and the Romans. The Spartans held Athens and Thebes, establishing there an oligarchy, nevertheless they lost them. The Romans, in order to hold Capua, Carthage, and Numantia, dismantled them, and did not lose them. They wished to hold Greece as the Spartans held it, making it free and permitting its laws, and did not succeed. So to hold it they were compelled to dismantle many cities in the country, for in truth there is no safe way to retain them otherwise than by ruining them. And he who becomes master of a city accustomed to freedom and does not destroy it, may expect to be destroyed by it, for in rebellion it has always the watchword of liberty and its ancient privileges as a rallying point, which neither time nor benefits will ever cause it to forget. And whatever you may do or provide against, they never forget that name or their privileges unless they are disunited or dispersed, but at every chance they immediately rally to them, as Pisa after the hundred years she had been held in bondage by the Florentines.
例如，有斯巴达人和罗马人。斯巴达人占领了雅典和底比斯，在那里建立了寡头政治，但他们还是失去了它们。罗马人为了守住卡普阿、迦太基、努曼提亚，拆毁了它们，并没有失去它们。他们希望像斯巴达人那样控制希腊，使其自由并允许其法律，但没有成功。因此，为了保住它，他们被迫拆除该国的许多城市，因为事实上，除了毁掉它们之外，没有其他安全的方法来保留它们。一个习惯了自由的城市的主人，如果他不摧毁它，他可能会被它摧毁，因为在叛乱中，它总是以自由及其古老的特权为集结点，而时间和利益都不会改变这一点。永远让它忘记。无论你做什么或反对什么，他们都不会忘记这个名字或他们的特权，除非他们分裂或分散，但一有机会他们就会立即团结起来，就像比萨在被佛罗伦萨人奴役了一百年后一样。

But when cities or countries are accustomed to live under a prince, and his family is exterminated, they, being on the one hand accustomed to obey and on the other hand not having the old prince, cannot agree in making one from amongst themselves, and they do not know how to govern themselves. For this reason they are very slow to take up arms, and a prince can gain them to himself and secure them much more easily. But in republics there is more vitality, greater hatred, and more desire for vengeance, which will never permit them to allow the memory of their former liberty to rest; so that the safest way is to destroy them or to reside there.
但是，当城市或国家习惯于在君主统治下，而他的家族被消灭时，他们一方面习惯于服从，另一方面又没有旧君主，因此不能同意互相造一个，并且他们不知道如何管理自己。因此，他们拿起武器的速度非常慢，而王子可以更容易地夺取他们并保护他们。但在共和政体中，人们有更多的活力、更大的仇恨和更多的复仇欲望，这永远不会让他们忘记以前的自由。所以最安全的方法就是消灭它们或者居住在那里。

CHAPTER VI. CONCERNING NEW PRINCIPALITIES WHICH ARE ACQUIRED BY ONE’S OWN ARMS AND ABILITY
第六章。关于用自己的武器和能力获得的新公国

Let no one be surprised if, in speaking of entirely new principalities as I shall do, I adduce the highest examples both of prince and of state; because men, walking almost always in paths beaten by others, and following by imitation their deeds, are yet unable to keep entirely to the ways of others or attain to the power of those they imitate. A wise man ought always to follow the paths beaten by great men, and to imitate those who have been supreme, so that if his ability does not equal theirs, at least it will savour of it. Let him act like the clever archers who, designing to hit the mark which yet appears too far distant, and knowing the limits to which the strength of their bow attains, take aim much higher than the mark, not to reach by their strength or arrow to so great a height, but to be able with the aid of so high an aim to hit the mark they wish to reach.
如果我在谈到全新的公国时，引用君主和国家的最高典范，请不要感到惊讶。因为人们几乎总是走在别人走过的道路上，并通过模仿他们的行为来追随他们的行为，但他们却无法完全遵循别人的道路或获得他们所模仿的人的力量。智者应当始终追随伟人走过的道路，效法那些至高无上的人，这样，即使他的能力不如他们，至少也能尝到其中的滋味。让他像聪明的弓箭手一样，计划射中看似遥远的目标，并知道他们的弓的力量所能达到的极限，瞄准比目标高得多的地方，而不是通过他们的力量或箭来达到目标达到如此高的高度，但能够借助如此高的目标来达到他们想要达到的目标。

I say, therefore, that in entirely new principalities, where there is a new prince, more or less difficulty is found in keeping them, accordingly as there is more or less ability in him who has acquired the state. Now, as the fact of becoming a prince from a private station presupposes either ability or fortune, it is clear that one or other of these things will mitigate in some degree many difficulties. Nevertheless, he who has relied least on fortune is established the strongest. Further, it facilitates matters when the prince, having no other state, is compelled to reside there in person.
因此，我说，在全新的公国中，如果有一个新的君主，要保留他们或多或少会遇到困难，相应地，因为获得国家的人的能力也或多或少。现在，由于从私人职位成为王子的事实以能力或财富为先决条件，因此很明显，其中一项或多项将在某种程度上减轻许多困难。然而，最不依赖财富的人却是最强大的。此外，当王子没有其他国家而被迫亲自居住在那里时，它也方便了事情。

But to come to those who, by their own ability and not through fortune, have risen to be princes, I say that Moses, Cyrus, Romulus, Theseus, and such like are the most excellent examples. And although one may not discuss Moses, he having been a mere executor of the will of God, yet he ought to be admired, if only for that favour which made him worthy to speak with God. But in considering Cyrus and others who have acquired or founded kingdoms, all will be found admirable; and if their particular deeds and conduct shall be considered, they will not be found inferior to those of Moses, although he had so great a preceptor. And in examining their actions and lives one cannot see that they owed anything to fortune beyond opportunity, which brought them the material to mould into the form which seemed best to them. Without that opportunity their powers of mind would have been extinguished, and without those powers the opportunity would have come in vain.
但对于那些靠自己的能力而不是靠运气而成为王子的人来说，我认为摩西、居鲁士、罗慕路斯、忒修斯等人是最优秀的例子。虽然人们可能不会讨论摩西，因为他只是上帝旨意的执行者，但他应该受到钦佩，哪怕只是因为他配得与上帝交谈的恩惠。但是，当考虑到居鲁士和其他获得或建立王国的人时，所有人都会感到钦佩。如果考虑到他们的具体事迹和举止，他们并不比摩西的人差，尽管他有一位如此伟大的导师。在审视他们的行为和生活时，我们看不出他们除了机会之外还欠什么东西，因为运气为他们提供了塑造成对他们来说最好的形式的材料。如果没有这个机会，他们的心智力量就会消失，如果没有这些力量，这个机会就会白白到来。

It was necessary, therefore, to Moses that he should find the people of Israel in Egypt enslaved and oppressed by the Egyptians, in order that they should be disposed to follow him so as to be delivered out of bondage. It was necessary that Romulus should not remain in Alba, and that he should be abandoned at his birth, in order that he should become King of Rome and founder of the fatherland. It was necessary that Cyrus should find the Persians discontented with the government of the Medes, and the Medes soft and effeminate through their long peace. Theseus could not have shown his ability had he not found the Athenians dispersed. These opportunities, therefore, made those men fortunate, and their high ability enabled them to recognize the opportunity whereby their country was ennobled and made famous.
因此，对于摩西来说，他有必要看到在埃及的以色列人受到埃及人的奴役和压迫，以便他们愿意跟随他，从而摆脱束缚。罗穆卢斯不应该留在阿尔巴，他一出生就应该被遗弃，这样他才能成为罗马国王和祖国的创始人。居鲁士有必要发现波斯人对米底人的政府不满，而米底人由于长期的和平而变得软弱而女性化。如果忒修斯没有发现雅典人被驱散，他就不可能展现出他的能力。因此，这些机会使这些人感到幸运，他们的高超能力使他们认识到了使他们的国家高贵和扬名的机会。

Those who by valorous ways become princes, like these men, acquire a principality with difficulty, but they keep it with ease. The difficulties they have in acquiring it rise in part from the new rules and methods which they are forced to introduce to establish their government and its security. And it ought to be remembered that there is nothing more difficult to take in hand, more perilous to conduct, or more uncertain in its success, then to take the lead in the introduction of a new order of things. Because the innovator has for enemies all those who have done well under the old conditions, and lukewarm defenders in those who may do well under the new. This coolness arises partly from fear of the opponents, who have the laws on their side, and partly from the incredulity of men, who do not readily believe in new things until they have had a long experience of them. Thus it happens that whenever those who are hostile have the opportunity to attack they do it like partisans, whilst the others defend lukewarmly, in such wise that the prince is endangered along with them.
那些通过勇敢的方式成为王子的人，就像这些人一样，很难获得一个公国，但他们很容易地保持它。他们在获得权力方面遇到的困难部分源于他们被迫引入新的规则和方法来建立政府及其安全。应该记住，没有什么比带头引入新的事物秩序更难掌握、更危险、更难以成功的了。因为创新者将所有在旧条件下表现出色的人视为敌人，而将那些在新条件下可能表现出色的人视为冷漠的捍卫者。这种冷静部分源于对对手的恐惧，因为他们有法律支持；部分源于人们的怀疑，他们在长期体验新事物之前不会轻易相信新事物。因此，每当敌对者有机会进攻时，他们就会像游击队一样行动，而其他人则冷淡地防守，这样一来，王子就会与他们一起受到威胁。

It is necessary, therefore, if we desire to discuss this matter thoroughly, to inquire whether these innovators can rely on themselves or have to depend on others: that is to say, whether, to consummate their enterprise, have they to use prayers or can they use force? In the first instance they always succeed badly, and never compass anything; but when they can rely on themselves and use force, then they are rarely endangered. Hence it is that all armed prophets have conquered, and the unarmed ones have been destroyed. Besides the reasons mentioned, the nature of the people is variable, and whilst it is easy to persuade them, it is difficult to fix them in that persuasion. And thus it is necessary to take such measures that, when they believe no longer, it may be possible to make them believe by force.
因此，如果我们想彻底讨论这个问题，就有必要问一下，这些创新者是可以依靠自己，还是必须依靠别人：也就是说，为了完成他们的事业，他们是否需要祈祷，或者是否可以依靠别人。他们使用武力？起初，他们总是一事无成，从不追求任何目标；但当他们能够依靠自己并使用武力时，他们就很少受到威胁。因此，所有武装的先知都被征服了，而那些手无寸铁的先知都被消灭了。除了上面提到的原因之外，人们的本性是多变的，说服他们很容易，但说服他们却很难。因此，有必要采取这样的措施，以便当他们不再相信时，可以通过武力使他们相信。

If Moses, Cyrus, Theseus, and Romulus had been unarmed they could not have enforced their constitutions for long—as happened in our time to Fra Girolamo Savonarola, who was ruined with his new order of things immediately the multitude believed in him no longer, and he had no means of keeping steadfast those who believed or of making the unbelievers to believe. Therefore such as these have great difficulties in consummating their enterprise, for all their dangers are in the ascent, yet with ability they will overcome them; but when these are overcome, and those who envied them their success are exterminated, they will begin to be respected, and they will continue afterwards powerful, secure, honoured, and happy.
如果摩西、居鲁士、忒修斯和罗穆卢斯手无寸铁，他们就不可能长期执行他们的宪法——就像我们这个时代的弗拉·吉罗拉莫·萨沃纳罗拉所发生的那样，他因他的新秩序而被毁掉，群众立即不再相信他，他没有办法让那些相信的人坚定不移，也没有办法让不信的人相信。因此，这些人要完成他们的事业有很大的困难，因为他们的危险都在上升，但只要有能力，他们就会克服它们。但当这些被克服，那些嫉妒他们成功的人被消灭时，他们就会开始受到尊重，之后他们将继续强大、安全、荣耀和幸福。

To these great examples I wish to add a lesser one; still it bears some resemblance to them, and I wish it to suffice me for all of a like kind: it is Hiero the Syracusan.[*] This man rose from a private station to be Prince of Syracuse, nor did he, either, owe anything to fortune but opportunity; for the Syracusans, being oppressed, chose him for their captain, afterwards he was rewarded by being made their prince. He was of so great ability, even as a private citizen, that one who writes of him says he wanted nothing but a kingdom to be a king. This man abolished the old soldiery, organized the new, gave up old alliances, made new ones; and as he had his own soldiers and allies, on such foundations he was able to build any edifice: thus, whilst he had endured much trouble in acquiring, he had but little in keeping.
对于这些伟大的例子，我想添加一个较小的例子；它仍然与他们有一些相似之处，我希望它足以让我满足所有同类：这是锡拉库扎人希罗。[*]这个人从一个私人职位晋升为锡拉库扎王子，他也没有，除了机会之外，一切都归功于运气；因为受到压迫的叙拉古人选他为他们的统帅，后来他得到了奖励，被封为他们的王子。即使作为一个普通公民，他也拥有如此强大的能力，以至于写信的人都说，他只想拥有一个王国，才能成为国王。这个人废除了旧的军队，组织了新的军队，放弃了旧的联盟，建立了新的联盟；由于他有自己的士兵和盟友，因此他能够在这样的基础上建造任何大厦：因此，虽然他在获得过程中经历了很多困难，但他却几乎没有保留。

[*] Hiero II, born about 307 B.C., died 216 B.C.
[*] 希罗二世，生于公元前 307 年左右，卒于公元前 216 年。

CHAPTER VII. CONCERNING NEW PRINCIPALITIES WHICH ARE ACQUIRED EITHER BY THE ARMS OF OTHERS OR BY GOOD FORTUNE
第七章。关于通过他人的武力或好运获得的新公国

Those who solely by good fortune become princes from being private citizens have little trouble in rising, but much in keeping atop; they have not any difficulties on the way up, because they fly, but they have many when they reach the summit. Such are those to whom some state is given either for money or by the favour of him who bestows it; as happened to many in Greece, in the cities of Ionia and of the Hellespont, where princes were made by Darius, in order that they might hold the cities both for his security and his glory; as also were those emperors who, by the corruption of the soldiers, from being citizens came to empire. Such stand simply elevated upon the goodwill and the fortune of him who has elevated them—two most inconstant and unstable things. Neither have they the knowledge requisite for the position; because, unless they are men of great worth and ability, it is not reasonable to expect that they should know how to command, having always lived in a private condition; besides, they cannot hold it because they have not forces which they can keep friendly and faithful.
那些仅仅靠运气从普通公民变成王子的人，在晋升方面没有什么困难，但在保持领先地位方面却有很大困难。他们在上山的路上没有任何困难，因为他们会飞，但当他们到达山顶时却遇到很多困难。这些人是因为金钱或施与者的恩惠而获得某种状态的人。就像希腊爱奥尼亚和赫勒斯滂海峡的许多城市所发生的那样，大流士在那里任命了王子，以便他们可以为了他的安全和荣耀而占领这些城市。那些皇帝也是如此，他们通过士兵的腐败，从公民变成了帝国。这种立场仅仅取决于提升者的善意和财富——这两件事是最不稳定的。他们也不具备该职位所需的知识；因为，除非他们是有伟大价值和能力的人，否则期望他们懂得如何发号施令是不合理的，因为他们一直生活在私人环境中。此外，他们无法保住它，因为他们没有可以保持友好和忠诚的力量。

States that rise unexpectedly, then, like all other things in nature which are born and grow rapidly, cannot leave their foundations and correspondencies[*] fixed in such a way that the first storm will not overthrow them; unless, as is said, those who unexpectedly become princes are men of so much ability that they know they have to be prepared at once to hold that which fortune has thrown into their laps, and that those foundations, which others have laid BEFORE they became princes, they must lay AFTERWARDS.
那么，出乎意料地崛起的国家，就像自然界中所有其他迅速诞生和成长的事物一样，不能离开它们的基础和对应关系[*]以这样的方式固定，以至于第一场风暴不会推翻它们；除非，如前所述，那些出人意料地成为王子的人都是非常有能力的人，他们知道自己必须立即做好准备，以抓住命运投到他们手中的东西，以及其他人在成为王子之前奠定的基础。王子们，他们必须躺下。

[*] ‘Le radici e corrispondenze,’ their roots (i.e. foundations) and correspondencies or relations with other states—a common meaning of ‘correspondence’ and ‘correspondency’ in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries.
[*]“Le radici e corrispondenze”，它们的根源（即基础）以及与其他国家的对应或关系——十六世纪和十七世纪“对应”和“对应”的常见含义。

Concerning these two methods of rising to be a prince by ability or fortune, I wish to adduce two examples within our own recollection, and these are Francesco Sforza[*] and Cesare Borgia. Francesco, by proper means and with great ability, from being a private person rose to be Duke of Milan, and that which he had acquired with a thousand anxieties he kept with little trouble. On the other hand, Cesare Borgia, called by the people Duke Valentino, acquired his state during the ascendancy of his father, and on its decline he lost it, notwithstanding that he had taken every measure and done all that ought to be done by a wise and able man to fix firmly his roots in the states which the arms and fortunes of others had bestowed on him.
关于这两种靠能力或靠运气成为王子的方法，我想举两个我们记忆中的例子，那就是弗朗西斯科·斯福尔扎[*]和切萨雷·博吉亚。弗朗西斯科凭借适当的手段和出色的能力，从一个普通人晋升为米兰公爵，他费尽千辛万苦才获得的东西，他毫不费力地保存着。另一方面，切萨雷·博吉亚，被人们称为瓦伦蒂诺公爵，在他父亲的统治时期获得了他的国家，在其衰落时他失去了它，尽管他已经采取了一切措施并做了所有应该由一个人做的事情。明智而有能力的人将自己的根牢固地扎根于他人的武器和财富赋予他的国家。

[*] Francesco Sforza, born 1401, died 1466. He married Bianca Maria Visconti, a natural daughter of Filippo Visconti, the Duke of Milan, on whose death he procured his own elevation to the duchy. Machiavelli was the accredited agent of the Florentine Republic to Cesare Borgia (1478-1507) during the transactions which led up to the assassinations of the Orsini and Vitelli at Sinigalia, and along with his letters to his chiefs in Florence he has left an account, written ten years before ‘The Prince,’ of the proceedings of the duke in his ‘Descritione del modo tenuto dal duca Valentino nello ammazzare Vitellozzo Vitelli,’ etc., a translation of which is appended to the present work.
[*] 弗朗切斯科·斯福尔扎 (Francesco Sforza)，出生于 1401 年，卒于 14​​66 年。他与米兰公爵菲利波·维斯康蒂 (Filippo Visconti) 的私生女比安卡·玛丽亚·维斯康蒂 (Bianca Maria Visconti) 结婚，在菲利波·维斯康蒂 (Filippo Visconti) 去世后，他自己也获得了公爵爵位。在导致奥尔西尼家族和维泰利家族在西尼加利亚被暗杀的交易中，马基雅维利是佛罗伦萨共和国委托给切萨雷·博吉亚（1478-1507）的代理人，除了给佛罗伦萨的首领的信外，他还留下了一个账户，写于《王子》十年前，描述了公爵在他的《描述瓦伦蒂诺·内洛·阿姆扎雷·维泰洛佐·维泰利》等中的记录，其译本附在本著作中。

Because, as is stated above, he who has not first laid his foundations may be able with great ability to lay them afterwards, but they will be laid with trouble to the architect and danger to the building. If, therefore, all the steps taken by the duke be considered, it will be seen that he laid solid foundations for his future power, and I do not consider it superfluous to discuss them, because I do not know what better precepts to give a new prince than the example of his actions; and if his dispositions were of no avail, that was not his fault, but the extraordinary and extreme malignity of fortune.
因为，如上所述，没有先打地基的人也许能够很有能力在以后打地基，但打地基会给建筑师带来麻烦，也会给建筑物带来危险。因此，如果考虑一下公爵所采取的所有步骤，就会发现他为他未来的权力奠定了坚实的基础，我认为讨论这些并不是多余的，因为我不知道有什么更好的戒律可以给予他新王子比他的行为为榜样；如果他的性格无济于事，那不是他的错，而是命运的异常和极端的邪恶。

Alexander the Sixth, in wishing to aggrandize the duke, his son, had many immediate and prospective difficulties. Firstly, he did not see his way to make him master of any state that was not a state of the Church; and if he was willing to rob the Church he knew that the Duke of Milan and the Venetians would not consent, because Faenza and Rimini were already under the protection of the Venetians. Besides this, he saw the arms of Italy, especially those by which he might have been assisted, in hands that would fear the aggrandizement of the Pope, namely, the Orsini and the Colonnesi and their following. It behoved him, therefore, to upset this state of affairs and embroil the powers, so as to make himself securely master of part of their states. This was easy for him to do, because he found the Venetians, moved by other reasons, inclined to bring back the French into Italy; he would not only not oppose this, but he would render it more easy by dissolving the former marriage of King Louis. Therefore the king came into Italy with the assistance of the Venetians and the consent of Alexander. He was no sooner in Milan than the Pope had soldiers from him for the attempt on the Romagna, which yielded to him on the reputation of the king. The duke, therefore, having acquired the Romagna and beaten the Colonnesi, while wishing to hold that and to advance further, was hindered by two things: the one, his forces did not appear loyal to him, the other, the goodwill of France: that is to say, he feared that the forces of the Orsini, which he was using, would not stand to him, that not only might they hinder him from winning more, but might themselves seize what he had won, and that the king might also do the same. Of the Orsini he had a warning when, after taking Faenza and attacking Bologna, he saw them go very unwillingly to that attack. And as to the king, he learned his mind when he himself, after taking the Duchy of Urbino, attacked Tuscany, and the king made him desist from that undertaking; hence the duke decided to depend no more upon the arms and the luck of others.
亚历山大六世希望加强他的儿子公爵的权力，遇到了许多直接和潜在的困难。首先，他没有找到让自己成为任何非教会国家的主人的方法；如果他愿意抢劫教堂，他知道米兰公爵和威尼斯人不会同意，因为法恩扎和里米尼已经受到威尼斯人的保护。除此之外，他还看到意大利的武器，尤其是那些本来可以帮助他的武器，掌握在害怕教皇权力扩张的人手中，即奥尔西尼家族和科隆内西家族及其追随者。因此，他有必要打破这种局面，卷入当权者的势力，以便使自己牢牢掌握他们的部分国家。这对他来说很容易做到，因为他发现威尼斯人在其他原因的推动下倾向于将法国人带回意大利。他不仅不会反对，而且会通过解除路易国王的前婚姻来使事情变得更容易。因此，国王在威尼斯人的帮助和亚历山大的同意下进入了意大利。他一到米兰，教皇就派他的士兵去罗马涅，这让他享有了国王的声誉。因此，公爵在获得了罗马涅并击败了科隆内西之后，虽然希望保住它并进一步前进，但受到两件事的阻碍：一是他的军队似乎对他并不忠诚，二是法国的善意：也就是说，他担心他所使用的奥尔西尼人的军队无法抵抗他，他们不仅会阻碍他赢得更多胜利，而且可能会夺取他所赢得的东西，而国王可能会也做同样的事情。 在夺取法恩扎并进攻博洛尼亚后，他看到奥尔西尼人非常不情愿地发动进攻，他对此提出了警告。至于国王，当他本人在夺取乌尔比诺公国后进攻托斯卡纳时，他了解了自己的想法，国王让他停止了这一行动。因此，公爵决定不再依赖他人的武力和运气。

For the first thing he weakened the Orsini and Colonnesi parties in Rome, by gaining to himself all their adherents who were gentlemen, making them his gentlemen, giving them good pay, and, according to their rank, honouring them with office and command in such a way that in a few months all attachment to the factions was destroyed and turned entirely to the duke. After this he awaited an opportunity to crush the Orsini, having scattered the adherents of the Colonna house. This came to him soon and he used it well; for the Orsini, perceiving at length that the aggrandizement of the duke and the Church was ruin to them, called a meeting of the Magione in Perugia. From this sprung the rebellion at Urbino and the tumults in the Romagna, with endless dangers to the duke, all of which he overcame with the help of the French. Having restored his authority, not to leave it at risk by trusting either to the French or other outside forces, he had recourse to his wiles, and he knew so well how to conceal his mind that, by the mediation of Signor Pagolo—whom the duke did not fail to secure with all kinds of attention, giving him money, apparel, and horses—the Orsini were reconciled, so that their simplicity brought them into his power at Sinigalia.[*] Having exterminated the leaders, and turned their partisans into his friends, the duke laid sufficiently good foundations to his power, having all the Romagna and the Duchy of Urbino; and the people now beginning to appreciate their prosperity, he gained them all over to himself. And as this point is worthy of notice, and to be imitated by others, I am not willing to leave it out.
首先，他削弱了罗马的奥尔西尼党和科隆内西党，将他们所有的绅士追随者纳入自己的阵营，使他们成为他的绅士，给他们优厚的报酬，并根据他们的等级，在这些领域授予他们官职和指挥权。这样，几个月之内，所有对派系的依恋就被摧毁，并完全转向公爵。此后，他驱散了科隆纳家族的追随者，等待着粉碎奥尔西尼家族的机会。他很快就想到了这一点，并且很好地利用了它。奥尔西尼家族最终意识到公爵和教会的扩张对他们来说是毁灭性的，于是在佩鲁贾召开了马焦内会议。由此引发了乌尔比诺的叛乱和罗马涅的骚乱，给公爵带来了无尽的危险，但他在法国人的帮助下克服了这一切。在恢复了自己的权威之后，为了避免信任法国人或其他外部势力而使其面临危险，他诉诸了自己的诡计，而且他非常清楚如何隐藏自己的想法，以至于在帕戈洛先生的调解下——他是公爵确实获得了各种关注，给了他金钱、衣服和马匹——奥尔西尼家族和解了，因此他们的简单性使他们在西尼加利亚落入了他的权力之下。 [*]消灭了领导人，并转变了他们的游击队公爵在朋友中为自己的权力奠定了良好的基础，拥有整个罗马涅和乌尔比诺公国。现在人们开始欣赏他们的繁荣，他把它们全部纳入自己的手中。而这一点是值得注意的，也是值得别人效仿的，所以我也不愿意省略。

[*] Sinigalia, 31st December 1502.
[*] 西尼加利亚，1502 年 12 月 31 日。

When the duke occupied the Romagna he found it under the rule of weak masters, who rather plundered their subjects than ruled them, and gave them more cause for disunion than for union, so that the country was full of robbery, quarrels, and every kind of violence; and so, wishing to bring back peace and obedience to authority, he considered it necessary to give it a good governor. Thereupon he promoted Messer Ramiro d’Orco,[*] a swift and cruel man, to whom he gave the fullest power. This man in a short time restored peace and unity with the greatest success. Afterwards the duke considered that it was not advisable to confer such excessive authority, for he had no doubt but that he would become odious, so he set up a court of judgment in the country, under a most excellent president, wherein all cities had their advocates. And because he knew that the past severity had caused some hatred against himself, so, to clear himself in the minds of the people, and gain them entirely to himself, he desired to show that, if any cruelty had been practised, it had not originated with him, but in the natural sternness of the minister. Under this pretence he took Ramiro, and one morning caused him to be executed and left on the piazza at Cesena with the block and a bloody knife at his side. The barbarity of this spectacle caused the people to be at once satisfied and dismayed.
当公爵占领罗马涅时，他发现它处于软弱主人的统治之下，他们宁愿掠夺臣民，也不愿统治他们，给他们带来更多分裂而不是联合的理由，因此这个国家充满了抢劫、争吵和各种形式的暴力。暴力；因此，为了恢复和平和对权威的服从，他认为有必要给它一个好的总督。于是，他提拔了拉米罗·多尔科先生（Messer Ramiro d’Orco），他是一位敏捷而残忍的人，并赋予了他最充分的权力。这个人在短时间内取得了最大的成功，恢复了和平与团结。后来，公爵认为授予如此过大的权力是不可取的，因为他确信他会变得令人憎恶，因此他在国家设立了一个法院，由一位最优秀的总统领导，所有城市都有自己的法院。倡导者。因为他知道过去的严厉已经引起了人们对他的一些仇恨，所以，为了在人们的心中清除自己，并让他们完全属于他自己，他希望表明，如果有任何残忍的行为，那么它并没有发生。起源于他，却源于大臣生性的严厉。以此为借口，他带走了拉米罗，并在一天早上将他处决，并把他留在切塞纳的广场上，身边放着木块和一把血淋淋的刀。这一奇观的野蛮，让人们既满意又惊愕。

[*] Ramiro d’Orco. Ramiro de Lorqua.
[*] 拉米罗·多尔科。拉米罗·德·洛尔夸。

But let us return whence we started. I say that the duke, finding himself now sufficiently powerful and partly secured from immediate dangers by having armed himself in his own way, and having in a great measure crushed those forces in his vicinity that could injure him if he wished to proceed with his conquest, had next to consider France, for he knew that the king, who too late was aware of his mistake, would not support him. And from this time he began to seek new alliances and to temporize with France in the expedition which she was making towards the kingdom of Naples against the Spaniards who were besieging Gaeta. It was his intention to secure himself against them, and this he would have quickly accomplished had Alexander lived.
但让我们回到我们开始的地方。我说，公爵发现自己现在足够强大，并且通过以自己的方式武装自己，并在很大程度上粉碎了他附近的那些如果他希望继续征服就可能伤害他的力量，从而在一定程度上避免了眼前的危险接下来要考虑的是法国，因为他知道国王不会支持他，但国王已经太晚才意识到他的错误。从那时起，他开始寻求新的联盟，并在法国向那不勒斯王国远征以对抗围困加埃塔的西班牙人时与法国合作。他的目的是确保自己免受他们的侵害，如果亚历山大还活着，他很快就能做到这一点。

Such was his line of action as to present affairs. But as to the future he had to fear, in the first place, that a new successor to the Church might not be friendly to him and might seek to take from him that which Alexander had given him, so he decided to act in four ways. Firstly, by exterminating the families of those lords whom he had despoiled, so as to take away that pretext from the Pope. Secondly, by winning to himself all the gentlemen of Rome, so as to be able to curb the Pope with their aid, as has been observed. Thirdly, by converting the college more to himself. Fourthly, by acquiring so much power before the Pope should die that he could by his own measures resist the first shock. Of these four things, at the death of Alexander, he had accomplished three. For he had killed as many of the dispossessed lords as he could lay hands on, and few had escaped; he had won over the Roman gentlemen, and he had the most numerous party in the college. And as to any fresh acquisition, he intended to become master of Tuscany, for he already possessed Perugia and Piombino, and Pisa was under his protection. And as he had no longer to study France (for the French were already driven out of the kingdom of Naples by the Spaniards, and in this way both were compelled to buy his goodwill), he pounced down upon Pisa. After this, Lucca and Siena yielded at once, partly through hatred and partly through fear of the Florentines; and the Florentines would have had no remedy had he continued to prosper, as he was prospering the year that Alexander died, for he had acquired so much power and reputation that he would have stood by himself, and no longer have depended on the luck and the forces of others, but solely on his own power and ability.
这就是他对当前事务的行动路线。但对于未来，他首先不得不担心教会的新继承者可能对他不友好，并可能试图从他手中夺走亚历山大所给予他的东西，因此他决定采取四种方式。首先，消灭那些被他掠夺的领主的家属，以夺走教皇的借口。其次，正如我们所观察到的，通过赢得罗马所有绅士的支持，以便能够利用他们的帮助来遏制教皇。第三，将大学更多地转变为他自己。第四，通过在教皇去世之前获得如此大的权力，他可以通过自己的措施抵御第一次冲击。在这四件事中，亚历山大死后，他已经完成了三件事。因为他已经杀掉了尽可能多的被剥夺了财产的领主，而且很少有人逃脱。他赢得了罗马绅士们的支持，他在学院里拥有人数最多的党派。至于任何新的收购，他打算成为托斯卡纳的主人，因为他已经拥有佩鲁贾和皮翁比诺，而比萨也在他的保护之下。由于他不再研究法国（因为法国人已经被西班牙人赶出了那不勒斯王国，这样一来，两国都被迫收买他的善意），他便向比萨发起了进攻。此后，卢卡和锡耶纳立即屈服，部分是出于仇恨，部分是出于对佛罗伦萨人的恐惧。如果他继续繁荣，佛罗伦萨人就没有补救办法了，就像亚历山大去世那年他的繁荣一样，因为他获得了如此大的权力和声誉，他将独自站立，而不再依赖运气和运气。别人的力量，却仅仅依靠自己的力量和能力。

But Alexander died five years after he had first drawn the sword. He left the duke with the state of Romagna alone consolidated, with the rest in the air, between two most powerful hostile armies, and sick unto death. Yet there were in the duke such boldness and ability, and he knew so well how men are to be won or lost, and so firm were the foundations which in so short a time he had laid, that if he had not had those armies on his back, or if he had been in good health, he would have overcome all difficulties. And it is seen that his foundations were good, for the Romagna awaited him for more than a month. In Rome, although but half alive, he remained secure; and whilst the Baglioni, the Vitelli, and the Orsini might come to Rome, they could not effect anything against him. If he could not have made Pope him whom he wished, at least the one whom he did not wish would not have been elected. But if he had been in sound health at the death of Alexander,[*] everything would have been different to him. On the day that Julius the Second[+] was elected, he told me that he had thought of everything that might occur at the death of his father, and had provided a remedy for all, except that he had never anticipated that, when the death did happen, he himself would be on the point to die.
但亚历山大在第一次拔剑五年后就去世了。他让公爵独自巩固了罗马涅的政权，其余的人则处于两支最强大的敌对军队之间，并病入膏肓。然而，公爵有如此的勇气和能力，他如此清楚地知道如何赢得或失去人，他在如此短的时间内奠定的基础如此坚固，以至于如果他没有那些军队如果他身体好的话，他就能克服一切困难了。可见他的基础很好，罗马涅已经等了他一个多月了。在罗马，尽管他已经半死不活，但他仍然很安全。虽然巴廖尼家族、维泰利家族和奥尔西尼家族可能会来到罗马，但他们无法对他造成任何影响。如果他不能任命他所希望的人为教皇，那么至少他不希望的人就不会当选。但如果他在亚历山大去世时身体健康，那么一切对他来说都会有所不同。尤利乌斯二世[+]当选那天，他告诉我，他已经想到了他父亲去世后可能发生的一切，并为所有人提供了补救办法，只是他万万没想到，当死亡确实发生了，他自己也快要死了。

[*] Alexander VI died of fever, 18th August 1503.
[*] 亚历山大六世于 1503 年 8 月 18 日因发烧去世。

[+] Julius II was Giuliano della Rovere, Cardinal of San Pietro ad Vincula, born 1443, died 1513.
[+] 朱利叶斯二世是朱利亚诺·德拉·罗韦雷 (Giuliano della Rovere)，圣彼得罗·阿德·温库拉 (San Pietro ad Vincula) 枢机主教，生于 1443 年，卒于 1513 年。

When all the actions of the duke are recalled, I do not know how to blame him, but rather it appears to be, as I have said, that I ought to offer him for imitation to all those who, by the fortune or the arms of others, are raised to government. Because he, having a lofty spirit and far-reaching aims, could not have regulated his conduct otherwise, and only the shortness of the life of Alexander and his own sickness frustrated his designs. Therefore, he who considers it necessary to secure himself in his new principality, to win friends, to overcome either by force or fraud, to make himself beloved and feared by the people, to be followed and revered by the soldiers, to exterminate those who have power or reason to hurt him, to change the old order of things for new, to be severe and gracious, magnanimous and liberal, to destroy a disloyal soldiery and to create new, to maintain friendship with kings and princes in such a way that they must help him with zeal and offend with caution, cannot find a more lively example than the actions of this man.
当回忆起公爵的所有行为时，我不知道如何责怪他，但正如我所说，我似乎应该向所有那些靠财富或武力的人效仿他。其他人则向政府提出。因为他有着崇高的精神和深远的目标，无法以其他方式规范自己的行为，只是亚历山大生命的短暂和他自己的疾病挫败了他的计划。因此，一个人如果认为有必要在新的公国中保住自己的地位，赢得朋友，以武力或欺诈来战胜自己，使自己受到人民的爱戴和敬畏，受到士兵的追随和尊敬，消灭那些反对他的人。有权力或理由伤害他，改旧换新，严厉而仁慈，宽宏大量，开明，消灭不忠的士兵并创造新的，与国王和王子保持友谊，以这样的方式他们必须热心帮助他，谨慎冒犯，找不到比这个人的行为更生动的例子了。

Only can he be blamed for the election of Julius the Second, in whom he made a bad choice, because, as is said, not being able to elect a Pope to his own mind, he could have hindered any other from being elected Pope; and he ought never to have consented to the election of any cardinal whom he had injured or who had cause to fear him if they became pontiffs. For men injure either from fear or hatred. Those whom he had injured, amongst others, were San Pietro ad Vincula, Colonna, San Giorgio, and Ascanio.[*] The rest, in becoming Pope, had to fear him, Rouen and the Spaniards excepted; the latter from their relationship and obligations, the former from his influence, the kingdom of France having relations with him. Therefore, above everything, the duke ought to have created a Spaniard Pope, and, failing him, he ought to have consented to Rouen and not San Pietro ad Vincula. He who believes that new benefits will cause great personages to forget old injuries is deceived. Therefore, the duke erred in his choice, and it was the cause of his ultimate ruin.
唯一可以指责的是他选举尤利乌斯二世，他在朱利叶斯二世身上做出了错误的选择，因为，正如所说，他无法按照自己的想法选举教皇，他可能会阻止任何其他人当选教皇；他不应该同意选举任何他曾伤害过的红衣主教，或者如果他们成为教皇的话，他们有理由害怕他。因为男人要么因为恐惧，要么因为仇恨而受伤。他所伤害的人包括圣彼得罗·阿德·温库拉（San Pietro ad Vincula）、科隆纳（Colonna）、圣乔治（San Giorgio）和阿斯卡尼奥（Ascanio）。 [*] 其余的人在成为教皇时都不得不害怕他，鲁昂和西班牙人除外；后者来自他们的关系和义务，前者来自他的影响力，法兰西王国与他有关系。因此，最重要的是，公爵应该任命一位西班牙教皇，如果他失败了，他应该同意鲁昂而不是圣彼得罗·阿德·温库拉。那些相信新的利益会使伟人忘记旧伤的人是受骗的。所以，公的选择是错误的，也是他最终灭亡的原因。

[*] San Giorgio is Raffaello Riario. Ascanio is Ascanio Sforza.
[*] 圣乔治是拉斐尔·里亚里奥。阿斯卡尼奥就是阿斯卡尼奥·斯福尔扎。

CHAPTER VIII. CONCERNING THOSE WHO HAVE OBTAINED A PRINCIPALITY BY WICKEDNESS
第八章。关于那些因邪恶而获得公国地位的人

Although a prince may rise from a private station in two ways, neither of which can be entirely attributed to fortune or genius, yet it is manifest to me that I must not be silent on them, although one could be more copiously treated when I discuss republics. These methods are when, either by some wicked or nefarious ways, one ascends to the principality, or when by the favour of his fellow-citizens a private person becomes the prince of his country. And speaking of the first method, it will be illustrated by two examples—one ancient, the other modern—and without entering further into the subject, I consider these two examples will suffice those who may be compelled to follow them.
尽管一位王子可以通过两种方式从私人地位崛起，而这两种方式都不能完全归因于财富或天才，但对我来说，显然我不能对它们保持沉默，尽管当我讨论它们时，可以更充分地对待它们。共和国。这些方法是当一个人通过某种邪恶或邪恶的方式登上公国时，或者当一个私人在他的同胞的青睐下成为他国家的王子时。说到第一种方法，将用两个例子来说明——一个是古代的，另一个是现代的——并且无需进一步深入主题，我认为这两个例子足以那些可能被迫遵循它们的人。

Agathocles, the Sicilian,[*] became King of Syracuse not only from a private but from a low and abject position. This man, the son of a potter, through all the changes in his fortunes always led an infamous life. Nevertheless, he accompanied his infamies with so much ability of mind and body that, having devoted himself to the military profession, he rose through its ranks to be Praetor of Syracuse. Being established in that position, and having deliberately resolved to make himself prince and to seize by violence, without obligation to others, that which had been conceded to him by assent, he came to an understanding for this purpose with Amilcar, the Carthaginian, who, with his army, was fighting in Sicily. One morning he assembled the people and the senate of Syracuse, as if he had to discuss with them things relating to the Republic, and at a given signal the soldiers killed all the senators and the richest of the people; these dead, he seized and held the princedom of that city without any civil commotion. And although he was twice routed by the Carthaginians, and ultimately besieged, yet not only was he able to defend his city, but leaving part of his men for its defence, with the others he attacked Africa, and in a short time raised the siege of Syracuse. The Carthaginians, reduced to extreme necessity, were compelled to come to terms with Agathocles, and, leaving Sicily to him, had to be content with the possession of Africa.
西西里人阿加索克利斯[*]成为锡拉丘兹国王，不仅是从一个私人的身份，而且是从一个卑微的地位。这个陶工的儿子，经历了命运的变迁，始终过着臭名昭著的生活。然而，他的思想和身体能力却伴随着他的恶名，以至于他全身心投入军事事业，并从军中晋升为锡拉丘兹执政官。他确立了这一地位，并刻意决定自立为王子，并在不向他人承担任何义务的情况下，通过暴力夺取经他同意而让给他的土地，为此他与迦太基人阿米尔卡达成了谅解。率领他的军队在西西里岛作战。一天早上，他召集了锡拉丘兹的人民和参议院，就好像他必须与他们讨论有关共和国的事情一样，在发出信号后，士兵们杀死了所有的参议员和最富有的人民；这些死者，他在没有发生任何内乱的情况下夺取了这座城市的王权。尽管他两次被迦太基人击溃，并最终被围困，但他不仅能够保卫自己的城市，而且留下了部分人马防守，与其他人一起进攻非洲，并在短时间内解除了围困锡拉丘兹。迦太基人陷入了极端的困境，被迫与阿加托克利斯达成协议，并将西西里岛留给他，并满足于拥有非洲。

[*] Agathocles the Sicilian, born 361 B.C., died 289 B.C.
[*] 西西里人阿加托克利斯，生于公元前 361 年，卒于公元前 289 年。

Therefore, he who considers the actions and the genius of this man will see nothing, or little, which can be attributed to fortune, inasmuch as he attained pre-eminence, as is shown above, not by the favour of any one, but step by step in the military profession, which steps were gained with a thousand troubles and perils, and were afterwards boldly held by him with many hazardous dangers. Yet it cannot be called talent to slay fellow-citizens, to deceive friends, to be without faith, without mercy, without religion; such methods may gain empire, but not glory. Still, if the courage of Agathocles in entering into and extricating himself from dangers be considered, together with his greatness of mind in enduring and overcoming hardships, it cannot be seen why he should be esteemed less than the most notable captain. Nevertheless, his barbarous cruelty and inhumanity with infinite wickedness do not permit him to be celebrated among the most excellent men. What he achieved cannot be attributed either to fortune or genius.
因此，凡是考虑这个人的行为和天才的人，都看不到任何或很少的东西可以归因于运气，因为他取得了卓越的地位，正如上面所表明的那样，不是靠任何人的恩惠，而是靠一步一步的努力。他在军事生涯中一步步走来，这一步是经历了千百次的麻烦和危险才取得的，后来他又冒着许多危险勇敢地坚持下去。然而，杀害同胞、欺骗朋友、没有信仰、没有怜悯、没有宗教信仰，这些都不能被称为天才。这种方法可能会赢得帝国，但不会赢得荣耀。尽管如此，如果考虑到阿加托克利斯陷入危险和摆脱危险的勇气，以及他忍受和克服困难的伟大精神，我们就不能理解为什么他应该被尊重为低于最著名的船长。然而，他的野蛮残忍和不人道以及无限的邪恶使他无法跻身最杰出的人物之列。他所取得的成就不能归因于财富或天才。

In our times, during the rule of Alexander the Sixth, Oliverotto da Fermo, having been left an orphan many years before, was brought up by his maternal uncle, Giovanni Fogliani, and in the early days of his youth sent to fight under Pagolo Vitelli, that, being trained under his discipline, he might attain some high position in the military profession. After Pagolo died, he fought under his brother Vitellozzo, and in a very short time, being endowed with wit and a vigorous body and mind, he became the first man in his profession. But it appearing a paltry thing to serve under others, he resolved, with the aid of some citizens of Fermo, to whom the slavery of their country was dearer than its liberty, and with the help of the Vitelleschi, to seize Fermo. So he wrote to Giovanni Fogliani that, having been away from home for many years, he wished to visit him and his city, and in some measure to look upon his patrimony; and although he had not laboured to acquire anything except honour, yet, in order that the citizens should see he had not spent his time in vain, he desired to come honourably, so would be accompanied by one hundred horsemen, his friends and retainers; and he entreated Giovanni to arrange that he should be received honourably by the Fermians, all of which would be not only to his honour, but also to that of Giovanni himself, who had brought him up.
在我们这个时代，亚历山大六世统治时期，奥利韦罗托·达·费尔莫多年前就成了孤儿，由他的叔叔乔瓦尼·福利亚尼抚养长大，并在他年轻时被派往帕戈洛·维泰利麾下作战。 ，在他的纪律下接受训练，他可能会在军事职业中获得一些高级职位。帕戈洛死后，在他的兄弟维特洛佐的手下作战，在很短的时间内，凭借智慧和旺盛的身心，他成为了这一职业的第一人。但在其他人手下服役似乎是一件微不足道的事情，他决定在费尔莫一些公民的帮助下，在维泰莱斯基家族的帮助下，夺取费尔莫，对他们来说，国家的奴隶制比自由更珍贵。因此，他写信给乔瓦尼·福利亚尼（Giovanni Fogliani），表示他已经离开家乡多年，希望拜访他和他的城市，并在某种程度上看看他的遗产；尽管他除了荣誉之外并没有努力获得任何东西，然而，为了让公民们看到他没有白费时间，他希望光荣地到来，因此他将由一百名骑兵、他的朋友和随从陪同；他恳求乔瓦尼安排他受到费米安人的尊敬接待，这不仅是为了他的荣誉，也是为了养育他的乔瓦尼本人的荣誉。

Giovanni, therefore, did not fail in any attentions due to his nephew, and he caused him to be honourably received by the Fermians, and he lodged him in his own house, where, having passed some days, and having arranged what was necessary for his wicked designs, Oliverotto gave a solemn banquet to which he invited Giovanni Fogliani and the chiefs of Fermo. When the viands and all the other entertainments that are usual in such banquets were finished, Oliverotto artfully began certain grave discourses, speaking of the greatness of Pope Alexander and his son Cesare, and of their enterprises, to which discourse Giovanni and others answered; but he rose at once, saying that such matters ought to be discussed in a more private place, and he betook himself to a chamber, whither Giovanni and the rest of the citizens went in after him. No sooner were they seated than soldiers issued from secret places and slaughtered Giovanni and the rest. After these murders Oliverotto, mounted on horseback, rode up and down the town and besieged the chief magistrate in the palace, so that in fear the people were forced to obey him, and to form a government, of which he made himself the prince. He killed all the malcontents who were able to injure him, and strengthened himself with new civil and military ordinances, in such a way that, in the year during which he held the principality, not only was he secure in the city of Fermo, but he had become formidable to all his neighbours. And his destruction would have been as difficult as that of Agathocles if he had not allowed himself to be overreached by Cesare Borgia, who took him with the Orsini and Vitelli at Sinigalia, as was stated above. Thus one year after he had committed this parricide, he was strangled, together with Vitellozzo, whom he had made his leader in valour and wickedness.
因此，乔凡尼并没有对他的侄子有所照顾，他让费米家的人尊敬地接待了他，并把他安置在自己的房子里，在那里，过了几天，并安排了必要的东西。由于奥利罗托的邪恶计划，他举办了一场庄严的宴会，邀请乔瓦尼·福利亚尼和费尔莫的酋长参加。当宴会中常见的食物和所有其他娱乐活动结束后，奥利韦罗托巧妙地开始了一些严肃的演讲，谈到教皇亚历山大和他的儿子切萨雷的伟大，以及他们的事业，乔瓦尼和其他人对这些演讲做出了回应；但他立即站起来，说这些事情应该在一个更私密的地方讨论，然后他自己走进一间房间，乔瓦尼和其他公民跟着他进去。他们刚坐下，士兵们就从秘密地点涌来，屠杀了乔瓦尼等人。这些谋杀案发生后，奥利韦罗托骑着马在城里走来走去，围攻宫殿里的首席法官，使人民在恐惧中被迫服从他，并组建了一个政府，他自封为王子。他杀死了所有能够伤害他的不满者，并通过新的民事和军事法令加强了自己的力量，这样，在他担任公国的那一年，他不仅在费尔莫市得到了安全，而且他对所有邻居来说都变得令人生畏。如果他没有被切萨雷·博吉亚超越，他的毁灭将会像阿加托克利斯一样困难，切萨雷·博吉亚把他与奥尔西尼和维泰利一起带到了西尼加利亚，如上所述。 因此，在他犯下这起弑父事件一年后，他和维泰洛佐一起被勒死，他任命维泰洛佐为他的勇敢和邪恶的领袖。

Some may wonder how it can happen that Agathocles, and his like, after infinite treacheries and cruelties, should live for long secure in his country, and defend himself from external enemies, and never be conspired against by his own citizens; seeing that many others, by means of cruelty, have never been able even in peaceful times to hold the state, still less in the doubtful times of war. I believe that this follows from severities[*] being badly or properly used. Those may be called properly used, if of evil it is possible to speak well, that are applied at one blow and are necessary to one’s security, and that are not persisted in afterwards unless they can be turned to the advantage of the subjects. The badly employed are those which, notwithstanding they may be few in the commencement, multiply with time rather than decrease. Those who practise the first system are able, by aid of God or man, to mitigate in some degree their rule, as Agathocles did. It is impossible for those who follow the other to maintain themselves.
有些人可能想知道，阿加托克利斯和他的同类在经历了无限的背叛和残酷之后，如何能够在他的国家长期安全地生活，并保卫自己免受外部敌人的侵害，而永远不会受到本国公民的阴谋反对？看到许多其他人通过残酷手段，即使在和平时期也从未能够维持国家，更不用说在充满不确定性的战争时期了。我相信这是由于严重性[*]使用不当或不当造成的。那些可以称为正确使用的，如果邪恶可以说得好的话，一击即用，并且对于一个人的安全是必要的，并且以后不会坚持使用，除非它们可以转化为对臣民的利益。就业不佳的人尽管一开始可能很少，但随着时间的推移而不是减少，而是不断增加。那些实行第一种制度的人能够在上帝或人的帮助下在某种程度上减轻他们的统治，就像阿加托克利斯所做的那样。跟随别人的人是不可能维持自己的。

[*] Mr Burd suggests that this word probably comes near the modern equivalent of Machiavelli’s thought when he speaks of ‘crudelta’ than the more obvious ‘cruelties.’
[*]伯德先生认为，当马基雅维利谈到“crudelta”而不是更明显的“cruelties”时，这个词可能更接近马基雅维利思想的现代对应词。

Hence it is to be remarked that, in seizing a state, the usurper ought to examine closely into all those injuries which it is necessary for him to inflict, and to do them all at one stroke so as not to have to repeat them daily; and thus by not unsettling men he will be able to reassure them, and win them to himself by benefits. He who does otherwise, either from timidity or evil advice, is always compelled to keep the knife in his hand; neither can he rely on his subjects, nor can they attach themselves to him, owing to their continued and repeated wrongs. For injuries ought to be done all at one time, so that, being tasted less, they offend less; benefits ought to be given little by little, so that the flavour of them may last longer.
因此，值得注意的是，在夺取一个国家时，篡位者应该仔细检查他必须造成的所有伤害，并一次性完成所有这些伤害，以免每天都重复这些伤害。因此，通过不让人们感到不安，他就能安抚他们，并通过利益赢得他们的支持。如果有人不这样做，无论是出于胆怯还是出于恶意的建议，他总是被迫把刀握在手里；他既不能依靠他的臣民，他们也不能依附于他，因为他们持续不断地犯下错误。因为伤害应该一次全部造成，这样，尝到的少，冒犯的也少；好处应该一点一点地给予，这样它们的味道才能持续得更久。

And above all things, a prince ought to live amongst his people in such a way that no unexpected circumstances, whether of good or evil, shall make him change; because if the necessity for this comes in troubled times, you are too late for harsh measures; and mild ones will not help you, for they will be considered as forced from you, and no one will be under any obligation to you for them.
最重要的是，君主应该以这样的方式生活在他的人民中间，任何意外的情况，无论是好是坏，都不会让他改变；因为如果在困难时期有必要这样做，那么采取严厉措施就为时已晚；温和的人不会帮助你，因为他们会被认为是被迫的，没有人会因为他们而对你承担任何义务。

CHAPTER IX. CONCERNING A CIVIL PRINCIPALITY
第九章。关于民事公国

But coming to the other point—where a leading citizen becomes the prince of his country, not by wickedness or any intolerable violence, but by the favour of his fellow citizens—this may be called a civil principality: nor is genius or fortune altogether necessary to attain to it, but rather a happy shrewdness. I say then that such a principality is obtained either by the favour of the people or by the favour of the nobles. Because in all cities these two distinct parties are found, and from this it arises that the people do not wish to be ruled nor oppressed by the nobles, and the nobles wish to rule and oppress the people; and from these two opposite desires there arises in cities one of three results, either a principality, selfgovernment, or anarchy.
但说到另一点——一个主要公民成为他国家的王子，不是通过邪恶或任何不可容忍的暴力，而是通过他的同胞的青睐——这可以被称为公民公国：天才或财富也不是完全必要的达到这个目的，而是一种快乐的精明。那么我说，这样的君主国要么是通过人民的青睐，要么是通过贵族的青睐而获得。因为在所有的城市中，都有这两种不同的党派，由此可见，人民不愿意受贵族统治和压迫，而贵族却愿意统治和压迫人民；由于这两种相反的欲望，城市中会产生三种结果之一：公国、自治或无政府状态。

A principality is created either by the people or by the nobles, accordingly as one or other of them has the opportunity; for the nobles, seeing they cannot withstand the people, begin to cry up the reputation of one of themselves, and they make him a prince, so that under his shadow they can give vent to their ambitions. The people, finding they cannot resist the nobles, also cry up the reputation of one of themselves, and make him a prince so as to be defended by his authority. He who obtains sovereignty by the assistance of the nobles maintains himself with more difficulty than he who comes to it by the aid of the people, because the former finds himself with many around him who consider themselves his equals, and because of this he can neither rule nor manage them to his liking. But he who reaches sovereignty by popular favour finds himself alone, and has none around him, or few, who are not prepared to obey him.
公国要么由人民创建，要么由贵族创建，视其中一人有机会而定；贵族们见自己抵挡不住人民，就开始抬高自己的名誉，立他为太子，在他的阴影下发泄自己的野心。百姓无法抗拒贵族，也纷纷高呼自己的名声，封他为太子，以维护他的权威。通过贵族的帮助获得主权的人比通过人民的帮助获得主权的人更难维持自己的地位，因为前者发现自己周围有许多自认为与他平等的人，因此他既不能按照他的喜好统治或管理他们。但是，通过民众的青睐而获得主权的人会发现自己孤身一人，周围没有人或很少有人不准备服从他。

Besides this, one cannot by fair dealing, and without injury to others, satisfy the nobles, but you can satisfy the people, for their object is more righteous than that of the nobles, the latter wishing to oppress, while the former only desire not to be oppressed. It is to be added also that a prince can never secure himself against a hostile people, because of their being too many, whilst from the nobles he can secure himself, as they are few in number. The worst that a prince may expect from a hostile people is to be abandoned by them; but from hostile nobles he has not only to fear abandonment, but also that they will rise against him; for they, being in these affairs more farseeing and astute, always come forward in time to save themselves, and to obtain favours from him whom they expect to prevail. Further, the prince is compelled to live always with the same people, but he can do well without the same nobles, being able to make and unmake them daily, and to give or wake away authority when it pleases him.
除此之外，不能以公正的方式，在不伤害他人的情况下满足贵族，但你可以满足人民，因为他们的目的比贵族更正义，后者希望压迫，而前者只希望不被压迫。被压迫。还需要补充的是，王子永远无法保护自己免受敌对人民的侵害，因为他们的人数太多，而他却可以保护自己免受贵族的侵害，因为他们的人数很少。对于一个王子来说，最糟糕的情况就是被敌对的人民抛弃。但他不仅要担心被敌对贵族抛弃，还要担心他们会起来反对他。因为他们在这些事情上更有远见和精明，总是及时挺身而出来拯救自己，并从他们期望获胜的人那里获得恩惠。此外，王子被迫总是与同样的人民生活在一起，但他可以在没有同样的贵族的情况下过得很好，能够每天创造和毁灭他们，并在他高兴的时候给予或唤醒权威。

Therefore, to make this point clearer, I say that the nobles ought to be looked at mainly in two ways: that is to say, they either shape their course in such a way as binds them entirely to your fortune, or they do not. Those who so bind themselves, and are not rapacious, ought to be honoured and loved; those who do not bind themselves may be dealt with in two ways; they may fail to do this through pusillanimity and a natural want of courage, in which case you ought to make use of them, especially of those who are of good counsel; and thus, whilst in prosperity you honour them, in adversity you do not have to fear them. But when for their own ambitious ends they shun binding themselves, it is a token that they are giving more thought to themselves than to you, and a prince out to guard against such, and to fear them as if they were open enemies, because in adversity they always help to ruin him.
因此，为了使这一点更清楚，我说应该主要从两个方面来看待贵族：也就是说，他们要么以完全与你的财富联系在一起的方式制定自己的路线，要么不这样做。那些如此约束自己而不贪婪的人应该受到尊重和爱戴；不约束自己的，可以用两种方法处理：他们可能由于胆怯和天生缺乏勇气而无法做到这一点，在这种情况下，你应该利用他们，尤其是那些有良好建议的人；因此，在顺境中你尊敬他们，在逆境中你不必惧怕他们。但是，当他们为了自己的野心而避免束缚自己时，这表明他们更多地考虑自己而不是你，而王子则要防范这种情况，并害怕他们，就好像他们是公开的敌人一样，因为逆境总是会毁掉他。

Therefore, one who becomes a prince through the favour of the people ought to keep them friendly, and this he can easily do seeing they only ask not to be oppressed by him. But one who, in opposition to the people, becomes a prince by the favour of the nobles, ought, above everything, to seek to win the people over to himself, and this he may easily do if he takes them under his protection. Because men, when they receive good from him of whom they were expecting evil, are bound more closely to their benefactor; thus the people quickly become more devoted to him than if he had been raised to the principality by their favours; and the prince can win their affections in many ways, but as these vary according to the circumstances one cannot give fixed rules, so I omit them; but, I repeat, it is necessary for a prince to have the people friendly, otherwise he has no security in adversity.
因此，一个受人民宠爱而成为君主的人应该与人民保持友好关系，而他很容易做到这一点，因为他们只要求不要受他的压迫。但是，一个与人民对立、受到贵族青睐而成为君主的人，首先应该争取人民的支持，而如果他将人民置于他的保护之下，他很容易做到这一点。因为，当人们从他们期待邪恶的人那里得到好处时，他们就会与他们的恩人更加紧密地联系在一起。因此，人民很快就会变得更加忠诚于他，而不是他因人民的恩惠而被提拔为公国。君王得人心的方法有很多，但因情况而异，无法定出固定的规则，所以略去。但是，我再说一遍，一个君主必须让人民友善，否则他在逆境中就没有安全感。

Nabis,[*] Prince of the Spartans, sustained the attack of all Greece, and of a victorious Roman army, and against them he defended his country and his government; and for the overcoming of this peril it was only necessary for him to make himself secure against a few, but this would not have been sufficient had the people been hostile. And do not let any one impugn this statement with the trite proverb that ‘He who builds on the people, builds on the mud,’ for this is true when a private citizen makes a foundation there, and persuades himself that the people will free him when he is oppressed by his enemies or by the magistrates; wherein he would find himself very often deceived, as happened to the Gracchi in Rome and to Messer Giorgio Scali[+] in Florence. But granted a prince who has established himself as above, who can command, and is a man of courage, undismayed in adversity, who does not fail in other qualifications, and who, by his resolution and energy, keeps the whole people encouraged—such a one will never find himself deceived in them, and it will be shown that he has laid his foundations well.
纳比斯，斯巴达王子，抵御了全希腊和胜利的罗马军队的进攻，并保卫了他的国家和政府。为了克服这种危险，他只需要确保自己免受少数人的侵害，但如果人民怀有敌意，这还不够。不要让任何人用“在人民基础上建设的人，在泥土上建设”这句陈词滥调来质疑这一说法，因为当一个普通公民在那里打下基础，并说服自己相信人民会释放他时，这就是事实。当他受到敌人或官长的压迫时；他发现自己经常受骗，就像罗马的格拉古家族和佛罗伦萨的乔治·斯卡利先生[+]所遭遇的那样。但如果有一位君王，他的地位如此，能指挥，有勇气，在逆境中不畏惧，在其他方面不失败，并且以他的决心和精力激励全体人民，这样的人一个人永远不会发现自己被它们欺骗了，而且会表明他已经奠定了良好的基础。

[*] Nabis, tyrant of Sparta, conquered by the Romans under Flamininus in 195 B.C.; killed 192 B.C.
[*] 纳比斯，斯巴达暴君，于公元前 195 年被弗拉米尼努斯领导下的罗马人征服；公元前 192 年被杀

[+] Messer Giorgio Scali. This event is to be found in Machiavelli’s ‘Florentine History,’ Book III.
[+] 乔治·斯卡利先生。这一事件可以在马基雅维利的《佛罗伦萨历史》第三卷中找到。

These principalities are liable to danger when they are passing from the civil to the absolute order of government, for such princes either rule personally or through magistrates. In the latter case their government is weaker and more insecure, because it rests entirely on the goodwill of those citizens who are raised to the magistracy, and who, especially in troubled times, can destroy the government with great ease, either by intrigue or open defiance; and the prince has not the chance amid tumults to exercise absolute authority, because the citizens and subjects, accustomed to receive orders from magistrates, are not of a mind to obey him amid these confusions, and there will always be in doubtful times a scarcity of men whom he can trust. For such a prince cannot rely upon what he observes in quiet times, when citizens have need of the state, because then every one agrees with him; they all promise, and when death is far distant they all wish to die for him; but in troubled times, when the state has need of its citizens, then he finds but few. And so much the more is this experiment dangerous, inasmuch as it can only be tried once. Therefore a wise prince ought to adopt such a course that his citizens will always in every sort and kind of circumstance have need of the state and of him, and then he will always find them faithful.
这些公国在从民事政府过渡到绝对政府秩序时容易面临危险，因为这些君主要么亲自统治，要么通过地方法官进行统治。在后一种情况下，他们的政府更加软弱和不安全，因为它完全依赖于那些被提升为行政官的公民的善意，而这些公民，特别是在困难时期，可以通过阴谋或公开的方式轻而易举地摧毁政府。蔑视;君主没有机会在骚乱中行使绝对的权威，因为习惯于接受行政长官命令的公民和臣民，在混乱中不愿意服从他，而在不确定的时期，总会出现缺乏权威的情况。他可以信任的人。因为这样的君主不能依赖他在安静时期所观察到的东西，当公民需要国家时，因为那时每个人都同意他的观点。他们都许诺，当死亡遥远的时候，他们都愿意为他而死。但在乱世，当国家需要其公民时，他却发现很少。而且这个实验更加危险，因为它只能尝试一次。因此，一个明智的君主应该采取这样的做法：让他的公民在任何情况下都需要国家和他，这样他就会发现他们永远忠诚。

CHAPTER X. CONCERNING THE WAY IN WHICH THE STRENGTH OF ALL PRINCIPALITIES OUGHT TO BE MEASURED
第十章 关于衡量各国实力的方式

It is necessary to consider another point in examining the character of these principalities: that is, whether a prince has such power that, in case of need, he can support himself with his own resources, or whether he has always need of the assistance of others. And to make this quite clear I say that I consider those who are able to support themselves by their own resources who can, either by abundance of men or money, raise a sufficient army to join battle against any one who comes to attack them; and I consider those always to have need of others who cannot show themselves against the enemy in the field, but are forced to defend themselves by sheltering behind walls. The first case has been discussed, but we will speak of it again should it recur. In the second case one can say nothing except to encourage such princes to provision and fortify their towns, and not on any account to defend the country. And whoever shall fortify his town well, and shall have managed the other concerns of his subjects in the way stated above, and to be often repeated, will never be attacked without great caution, for men are always adverse to enterprises where difficulties can be seen, and it will be seen not to be an easy thing to attack one who has his town well fortified, and is not hated by his people.
在审视这些公国的性质时，还需要考虑另一点：即君主是否拥有这样的权力，在需要时可以用自己的资源养活自己，或者他是否总是需要君主的帮助。其他的。为了清楚地说明这一点，我说，我认为那些能够依靠自己的资源养活自己的人，可以通过充足的人力或金钱，召集一支足够的军队来对抗任何来攻击他们的人；我认为那些无法在战场上与敌人对抗而被迫躲在墙后自卫的人总是需要其他人。第一个案例已经讨论过，但如果它再次出现，我们会再次讨论它。在第二种情况下，除了鼓励这些王子提供给养和加固他们的城镇之外，我们什么也说不出来，而不是为了保卫国家。凡是能很好地加固他的城镇，并以上述方式处理其臣民的其他问题的人，并且经常重复，他将永远不会在没有非常谨慎的情况下受到攻击，因为人们总是反对那些可以看到困难的事业，而且人们会发现，攻击一个城镇坚固、不被人民憎恨的人并不是一件容易的事。

The cities of Germany are absolutely free, they own but little country around them, and they yield obedience to the emperor when it suits them, nor do they fear this or any other power they may have near them, because they are fortified in such a way that every one thinks the taking of them by assault would be tedious and difficult, seeing they have proper ditches and walls, they have sufficient artillery, and they always keep in public depots enough for one year’s eating, drinking, and firing. And beyond this, to keep the people quiet and without loss to the state, they always have the means of giving work to the community in those labours that are the life and strength of the city, and on the pursuit of which the people are supported; they also hold military exercises in repute, and moreover have many ordinances to uphold them.
德国的城市是绝对自由的，他们只拥有周围的一小块国家，当皇帝适合他们的时候，他们就会服从皇帝，他们也不害怕这种权力或他们附近可能拥有的任何其他权力，因为他们在这样的一个国家中得到了强化。以至于每个人都认为通过突击夺取他们是乏味和困难的，因为他们有合适的沟渠和城墙，他们有足够的火炮，而且他们总是在公共仓库里保留足够一年的吃、喝和射击的东西。除此之外，为了让人民保持安静并且不给国家造成损失，他们总是有办法为社区提供工作，从事那些构成城市生命和力量的劳动，并支持人民的追求;他们还举行有名的军事演习，而且有许多法令来维护它们。

Therefore, a prince who has a strong city, and had not made himself odious, will not be attacked, or if any one should attack he will only be driven off with disgrace; again, because that the affairs of this world are so changeable, it is almost impossible to keep an army a whole year in the field without being interfered with. And whoever should reply: If the people have property outside the city, and see it burnt, they will not remain patient, and the long siege and selfinterest will make them forget their prince; to this I answer that a powerful and courageous prince will overcome all such difficulties by giving at one time hope to his subjects that the evil will not be for long, at another time fear of the cruelty of the enemy, then preserving himself adroitly from those subjects who seem to him to be too bold.
所以，君主拥有坚固的城池，又没有使自己变得可憎，就不会受到攻击；如果有人攻击，他也只会被羞辱而被赶走。再说了，世事瞬息万变，要让一支军队在外地驻扎一整年而不受到干扰，几乎是不可能的。谁应回答说：如果人民在城外有财产，看到它被烧毁，他们就不会忍耐，长期的围困和私利会使他们忘记他们的君主；对此，我的回答是，一位强大而勇敢的君主会克服所有这些困难，他会一方面给他的臣民带来希望，让他们相信邪恶不会长久，另一方面又担心敌人的残酷，然后巧妙地保护自己免受敌人的侵害。在他看来过于大胆的主题。

Further, the enemy would naturally on his arrival at once burn and ruin the country at the time when the spirits of the people are still hot and ready for the defence; and, therefore, so much the less ought the prince to hesitate; because after a time, when spirits have cooled, the damage is already done, the ills are incurred, and there is no longer any remedy; and therefore they are so much the more ready to unite with their prince, he appearing to be under obligations to them now that their houses have been burnt and their possessions ruined in his defence. For it is the nature of men to be bound by the benefits they confer as much as by those they receive. Therefore, if everything is well considered, it will not be difficult for a wise prince to keep the minds of his citizens steadfast from first to last, when he does not fail to support and defend them.
而且，敌人一到，自然会立即烧毁国家，而当时人民的热情还很高，准备保卫；因此，王子更不应该犹豫。因为过了一段时间，精神凉了，损害已经造成，祸患已经产生，就不再有任何补救办法了。因此，他们更愿意与他们的王子联合起来，既然他们的房屋在他的保卫中被烧毁，他们的财产被毁，他似乎对他们负有义务。因为人的本性是受他们所给予的利益和他们所接受的利益的约束。因此，如果一切都考虑周全，一个明智的君主在不遗余力支持和捍卫公民的同时，自始至终保持其公民的思想坚定，这并不困难。

CHAPTER XI. CONCERNING ECCLESIASTICAL PRINCIPALITIES
第十一章。关于教会公国

It only remains now to speak of ecclesiastical principalities, touching which all difficulties are prior to getting possession, because they are acquired either by capacity or good fortune, and they can be held without either; for they are sustained by the ancient ordinances of religion, which are so all-powerful, and of such a character that the principalities may be held no matter how their princes behave and live. These princes alone have states and do not defend them; and they have subjects and do not rule them; and the states, although unguarded, are not taken from them, and the subjects, although not ruled, do not care, and they have neither the desire nor the ability to alienate themselves. Such principalities only are secure and happy. But being upheld by powers, to which the human mind cannot reach, I shall speak no more of them, because, being exalted and maintained by God, it would be the act of a presumptuous and rash man to discuss them.
现在只剩下谈论教会公国了，在获得占有之前，所有的困难都需要解决，因为它们要么是通过能力或好运气获得的，要么没有任何一种，它们也可以被持有。因为它们是由古老的宗教法令所支撑的，这些法令是如此强大，并且具有这样的性质，即无论君主的行为和生活如何，都可以保有公国。只有这些诸侯有国家而不保卫国家；他们有臣民，但并不统治他们；国家虽无人守卫，但不被夺走；臣民虽不受统治，却无动于衷，既没有意愿，也没有能力疏远自己。只有这样的公国才是安全和幸福的。但由于人的思想无法企及的力量的支撑，我不再谈论它们，因为，被上帝高举和维护，讨论它们将是一个自以为是、鲁莽的人的行为。

Nevertheless, if any one should ask of me how comes it that the Church has attained such greatness in temporal power, seeing that from Alexander backwards the Italian potentates (not only those who have been called potentates, but every baron and lord, though the smallest) have valued the temporal power very slightly—yet now a king of France trembles before it, and it has been able to drive him from Italy, and to ruin the Venetians—although this may be very manifest, it does not appear to me superfluous to recall it in some measure to memory.
然而，如果有人问我，为什么教会在世俗权力方面取得了如此伟大的成就，因为从亚历山大开始，意大利的统治者（不仅是那些被称为统治者的人，而且包括每一个男爵和领主，尽管是最小的） ）非常不重视世俗权力——然而现在法国国王在它面前颤抖，它已经能够将他赶出意大利，并摧毁威尼斯人——尽管这可能是非常明显的，但在我看来并不是多余的在某种程度上回忆起它。

Before Charles, King of France, passed into Italy,[*] this country was under the dominion of the Pope, the Venetians, the King of Naples, the Duke of Milan, and the Florentines. These potentates had two principal anxieties: the one, that no foreigner should enter Italy under arms; the other, that none of themselves should seize more territory. Those about whom there was the most anxiety were the Pope and the Venetians. To restrain the Venetians the union of all the others was necessary, as it was for the defence of Ferrara; and to keep down the Pope they made use of the barons of Rome, who, being divided into two factions, Orsini and Colonnesi, had always a pretext for disorder, and, standing with arms in their hands under the eyes of the Pontiff, kept the pontificate weak and powerless. And although there might arise sometimes a courageous pope, such as Sixtus, yet neither fortune nor wisdom could rid him of these annoyances. And the short life of a pope is also a cause of weakness; for in the ten years, which is the average life of a pope, he can with difficulty lower one of the factions; and if, so to speak, one people should almost destroy the Colonnesi, another would arise hostile to the Orsini, who would support their opponents, and yet would not have time to ruin the Orsini. This was the reason why the temporal powers of the pope were little esteemed in Italy.
在法国国王查理进入意大利之前，[*]这个国家处于教皇、威尼斯人、那不勒斯国王、米兰公爵和佛罗伦萨人的统治之下。这些当权者有两个主要的忧虑：一是任何外国人都不应携带武器进入意大利；二是任何外国人都不应携带武器进入意大利。另一个是，他们中的任何一方都不应该夺取更多的领土。最令人焦虑的是教皇和威尼斯人。为了抑制威尼斯人，所有其他人的联合是必要的，就像保卫费拉拉一样。为了镇压教皇，他们利用了罗马贵族，他们分为奥尔西尼和科隆内西两派，总是以借口制造骚乱，并在教皇的眼皮子底下双手抱臂站立，教皇软弱无力。尽管有时会出现一位勇敢的教皇，例如西克斯图斯，但财富和智慧都无法使他摆脱这些烦恼。教皇的短暂生命也是软弱的一个原因。因为在教皇的平均寿命十年里，他很难降低其中一个派系的地位。可以这么说，如果一个民族几乎摧毁了科隆内西人，另一个民族就会对奥尔西尼人怀有敌意，他们会支持他们的对手，但没有时间摧毁奥尔西尼人。这就是为什么教皇的世俗权力在意大利不受尊重的原因。

[*] Charles VIII invaded Italy in 1494.
[*] 查理八世于 1494 年入侵意大利。

Alexander the Sixth arose afterwards, who of all the pontiffs that have ever been showed how a pope with both money and arms was able to prevail; and through the instrumentality of the Duke Valentino, and by reason of the entry of the French, he brought about all those things which I have discussed above in the actions of the duke. And although his intention was not to aggrandize the Church, but the duke, nevertheless, what he did contributed to the greatness of the Church, which, after his death and the ruin of the duke, became the heir to all his labours.
后来亚历山大六世崛起，他在所有的教皇中都向人们展示了一个拥有金钱和武器的教皇是如何取得胜利的。通过瓦伦蒂诺公爵的帮助，并由于法国人的进入，他带来了我上面在公爵的行动中讨论过的所有这些事情。尽管他的意图不是要壮大教会，但公爵的所作所为却为教会的伟大做出了贡献，在他死后和公爵破产后，教会成为了他所有劳动的继承人。

Pope Julius came afterwards and found the Church strong, possessing all the Romagna, the barons of Rome reduced to impotence, and, through the chastisements of Alexander, the factions wiped out; he also found the way open to accumulate money in a manner such as had never been practised before Alexander’s time. Such things Julius not only followed, but improved upon, and he intended to gain Bologna, to ruin the Venetians, and to drive the French out of Italy. All of these enterprises prospered with him, and so much the more to his credit, inasmuch as he did everything to strengthen the Church and not any private person. He kept also the Orsini and Colonnesi factions within the bounds in which he found them; and although there was among them some mind to make disturbance, nevertheless he held two things firm: the one, the greatness of the Church, with which he terrified them; and the other, not allowing them to have their own cardinals, who caused the disorders among them. For whenever these factions have their cardinals they do not remain quiet for long, because cardinals foster the factions in Rome and out of it, and the barons are compelled to support them, and thus from the ambitions of prelates arise disorders and tumults among the barons. For these reasons his Holiness Pope Leo[*] found the pontificate most powerful, and it is to be hoped that, if others made it great in arms, he will make it still greater and more venerated by his goodness and infinite other virtues.
后来教皇朱利叶斯到来，发现教会强大了，占领了整个罗马涅，罗马的贵族们变得无能为力，在亚历山大的惩罚下，各个派系都被消灭了。他还找到了以亚历山大之前从未采用过的方式积累金钱的方法。朱利叶斯不仅遵循了这些事情，而且加以改进，他打算占领博洛尼亚，摧毁威尼斯人，并将法国人赶出意大利。所有这些事业都随着他的繁荣而繁荣，这更值得他赞扬，因为他所做的一切都是为了加强教会而不是任何个人。他还将奥尔西尼派和科隆内西派控制在他发现的范围内。尽管他们中间有人想闹事，但他坚信两件事：一是教会的伟大，他用它来恐吓他们；二是他用教会的伟大来恐吓他们。另一个是不允许他们有自己的枢机主教，这导致了他们之间的混乱。因为每当这些派别有了枢机主教时，他们就不会保持沉默太久，因为枢机主教在罗马内外扶植派系，而男爵们被迫支持他们，因此，主教们的野心导致了男爵们之间的混乱和骚乱。 。由于这些原因，他的教皇利奥教皇[*]认为教皇是最强大的，并且希望，如果其他人在武力上取得了伟大的成就，他也会通过他的善良和无限的其他美德使其变得更加强大和更加受人尊敬。

[*] Pope Leo X was the Cardinal de’ Medici.
[*] 教皇利奥十世是红衣主教德·美第奇。

CHAPTER XII. HOW MANY KINDS OF SOLDIERY THERE ARE, AND CONCERNING MERCENARIES
第十二章。士兵有多少种，以及雇佣军

Having discoursed particularly on the characteristics of such principalities as in the beginning I proposed to discuss, and having considered in some degree the causes of their being good or bad, and having shown the methods by which many have sought to acquire them and to hold them, it now remains for me to discuss generally the means of offence and defence which belong to each of them.
我在开始时特别讨论了我提议讨论的这些君主国的特征，并在某种程度上考虑了它们好坏的原因，并展示了许多人寻求获得和保持它们的方法现在我要概括地讨论一下他们各自的进攻和防守手段。

We have seen above how necessary it is for a prince to have his foundations well laid, otherwise it follows of necessity he will go to ruin. The chief foundations of all states, new as well as old or composite, are good laws and good arms; and as there cannot be good laws where the state is not well armed, it follows that where they are well armed they have good laws. I shall leave the laws out of the discussion and shall speak of the arms.
我们已经看到，一个君主必须打好基础，否则他必然走向灭亡。所有国家的主要基础，无论是新的、旧的还是复合的，都是良好的法律和良好的武器。由于国家武装不精良就不可能有良好的法律，因此武装精良的国家就有良好的法律。我将不讨论法律，而谈谈武器。

I say, therefore, that the arms with which a prince defends his state are either his own, or they are mercenaries, auxiliaries, or mixed. Mercenaries and auxiliaries are useless and dangerous; and if one holds his state based on these arms, he will stand neither firm nor safe; for they are disunited, ambitious, and without discipline, unfaithful, valiant before friends, cowardly before enemies; they have neither the fear of God nor fidelity to men, and destruction is deferred only so long as the attack is; for in peace one is robbed by them, and in war by the enemy. The fact is, they have no other attraction or reason for keeping the field than a trifle of stipend, which is not sufficient to make them willing to die for you. They are ready enough to be your soldiers whilst you do not make war, but if war comes they take themselves off or run from the foe; which I should have little trouble to prove, for the ruin of Italy has been caused by nothing else than by resting all her hopes for many years on mercenaries, and although they formerly made some display and appeared valiant amongst themselves, yet when the foreigners came they showed what they were. Thus it was that Charles, King of France, was allowed to seize Italy with chalk in hand;[*] and he who told us that our sins were the cause of it told the truth, but they were not the sins he imagined, but those which I have related. And as they were the sins of princes, it is the princes who have also suffered the penalty.
因此，我说，君主保卫国家的武器要么是他自己的，要么是雇佣军、辅助军或混合军。雇佣兵和辅助人员毫无用处且危险；如果一个人依靠这些武器来维持他的国家，那么他就不会站稳脚跟，也不会安全。因为他们不团结，野心勃勃，没有纪律，不忠诚，在朋友面前勇敢，在敌人面前懦弱。他们既不畏惧上帝，也不忠诚于人类，只要受到攻击，毁灭就会被推迟。因为在和平时期，人们会被他们掠夺，而在战争时期，人们会被敌人掠夺。事实上，除了一点点津贴之外，他们没有其他吸引力或理由保留这个领域，这不足以让他们愿意为你而死。当你不发动战争时，他们已经准备好成为你的士兵，但如果战争来临时，他们就会离开或逃离敌人；我应该毫不费力地证明这一点，因为意大利的毁灭无非是多年来把所有希望都寄托在雇佣兵身上造成的，尽管他们以前表现得很英勇，但当外国人到来时他们展示了自己的本质。就这样，法国国王查理被允许手里拿着粉笔占领意大利；[*]而他告诉我们，我们的罪孽是造成这一切的原因，他说的是实话，但这些罪孽不是他想象的，而是那些与我相关的。既然是诸侯所犯的罪，那么受罚的也是诸侯。

[*] ‘With chalk in hand,’ ‘col gesso.’ This is one of the bons mots of Alexander VI, and refers to the ease with which Charles VIII seized Italy, implying that it was only necessary for him to send his quartermasters to chalk up the billets for his soldiers to conquer the country. Cf. ‘The History of Henry VII,’ by Lord Bacon: ‘King Charles had conquered the realm of Naples, and lost it again, in a kind of a felicity of a dream. He passed the whole length of Italy without resistance: so that it was true what Pope Alexander was wont to say: That the Frenchmen came into Italy with chalk in their hands, to mark up their lodgings, rather than with swords to fight.’
[*]“手里拿着粉笔”，“col gesso”。这是亚历山大六世的妙语之一，指的是查理八世轻松占领意大利，暗示他只需要派军需官为他的士兵征服国家记下军费。比照。培根勋爵在《亨利七世的历史》中写道：“查理国王征服了那不勒斯王国，然后又失去了它，就像一场幸福的梦。”他毫无抵抗地穿越了整个意大利：所以教皇亚历山大常说的那句话是真的：法国人进入意大利时手里拿着粉笔，是为了标记他们的住处，而不是带着剑去战斗。

I wish to demonstrate further the infelicity of these arms. The mercenary captains are either capable men or they are not; if they are, you cannot trust them, because they always aspire to their own greatness, either by oppressing you, who are their master, or others contrary to your intentions; but if the captain is not skilful, you are ruined in the usual way.
我想进一步证明这些武器的不恰当。雇佣兵队长要么是有能力的人，要么是没有能力的人；如果他们是，你就不能信任他们，因为他们总是渴望自己的伟大，或者通过压迫你这个他们的主人，或者通过违背你的意图的其他人；但如果船长不熟练，你就会像平常一样被毁掉。

And if it be urged that whoever is armed will act in the same way, whether mercenary or not, I reply that when arms have to be resorted to, either by a prince or a republic, then the prince ought to go in person and perform the duty of a captain; the republic has to send its citizens, and when one is sent who does not turn out satisfactorily, it ought to recall him, and when one is worthy, to hold him by the laws so that he does not leave the command. And experience has shown princes and republics, single-handed, making the greatest progress, and mercenaries doing nothing except damage; and it is more difficult to bring a republic, armed with its own arms, under the sway of one of its citizens than it is to bring one armed with foreign arms. Rome and Sparta stood for many ages armed and free. The Switzers are completely armed and quite free.
如果有人敦促任何武装者都以同样的方式行事，无论是否是雇佣兵，我的回答是，当必须诉诸武器时，无论是王子还是共和国，那么王子应该亲自去执行船长的职责；共和国必须派遣其公民，当一名公民被派遣但结果不令人满意时，共和国就应该召回他，当一名公民值得召回时，应依法拘留他，以免他脱离指挥权。经验表明，君主和共和国单枪匹马取得了最大的进步，而雇佣兵除了破坏之外什么也不做；让一个用自己的武器武装起来的共和国置于其公民的统治之下，比让一个用外国武器武装起来的共和国更加困难。罗马和斯巴达多年来一直武装和自由。瑞士人全副武装，相当自由。

Of ancient mercenaries, for example, there are the Carthaginians, who were oppressed by their mercenary soldiers after the first war with the Romans, although the Carthaginians had their own citizens for captains. After the death of Epaminondas, Philip of Macedon was made captain of their soldiers by the Thebans, and after victory he took away their liberty.
例如，在古代雇佣兵中，有迦太基人，他们在与罗马人的第一次战争后受到雇佣兵的压迫，尽管迦太基人有自己的公民担任队长。伊巴密浓达死后，马其顿的腓力被底比斯人任命为他们的士兵队长，并在胜利后剥夺了底比斯人的自由。

Duke Filippo being dead, the Milanese enlisted Francesco Sforza against the Venetians, and he, having overcome the enemy at Caravaggio,[*] allied himself with them to crush the Milanese, his masters. His father, Sforza, having been engaged by Queen Johanna[+] of Naples, left her unprotected, so that she was forced to throw herself into the arms of the King of Aragon, in order to save her kingdom. And if the Venetians and Florentines formerly extended their dominions by these arms, and yet their captains did not make themselves princes, but have defended them, I reply that the Florentines in this case have been favoured by chance, for of the able captains, of whom they might have stood in fear, some have not conquered, some have been opposed, and others have turned their ambitions elsewhere. One who did not conquer was Giovanni Acuto,[%] and since he did not conquer his fidelity cannot be proved; but every one will acknowledge that, had he conquered, the Florentines would have stood at his discretion. Sforza had the Bracceschi always against him, so they watched each other. Francesco turned his ambition to Lombardy; Braccio against the Church and the kingdom of Naples. But let us come to that which happened a short while ago. The Florentines appointed as their captain Pagolo Vitelli, a most prudent man, who from a private position had risen to the greatest renown. If this man had taken Pisa, nobody can deny that it would have been proper for the Florentines to keep in with him, for if he became the soldier of their enemies they had no means of resisting, and if they held to him they must obey him. The Venetians, if their achievements are considered, will be seen to have acted safely and gloriously so long as they sent to war their own men, when with armed gentlemen and plebians they did valiantly. This was before they turned to enterprises on land, but when they began to fight on land they forsook this virtue and followed the custom of Italy. And in the beginning of their expansion on land, through not having much territory, and because of their great reputation, they had not much to fear from their captains; but when they expanded, as under Carmignuola,[#] they had a taste of this mistake; for, having found him a most valiant man (they beat the Duke of Milan under his leadership), and, on the other hand, knowing how lukewarm he was in the war, they feared they would no longer conquer under him, and for this reason they were not willing, nor were they able, to let him go; and so, not to lose again that which they had acquired, they were compelled, in order to secure themselves, to murder him. They had afterwards for their captains Bartolomeo da Bergamo, Roberto da San Severino, the count of Pitigliano,[&] and the like, under whom they had to dread loss and not gain, as happened afterwards at Vaila,[$] where in one battle they lost that which in eight hundred years they had acquired with so much trouble. Because from such arms conquests come but slowly, long delayed and inconsiderable, but the losses sudden and portentous.
菲利波公爵死后，米兰人招募弗朗西斯科·斯福尔扎对抗威尼斯人，他在卡拉瓦乔击败了敌人后，与他们结盟，镇压他的主人米兰人。他的父亲斯福尔扎与那不勒斯王后约翰娜[+]订婚，却让她处于无人保护的状态，以致她被迫投入阿拉贡国王的怀抱，以拯救她的王国。如果威尼斯人和佛罗伦萨人以前通过这些武器扩展了他们的领土，但他们的统帅并没有自封为王子，而是保卫了他们，我回答说，在这种情况下，佛罗伦萨人受到了偶然的青睐，因为在有能力的统帅中，他们可能会感到恐惧，有些人没有征服，有些人遭到反对，而另一些人则把他们的野心转向了别处。乔瓦尼·阿库托（Giovanni Acuto）是一个没有征服的人，[%]，由于他没有征服，所以他的忠诚度无法得到证明；但每个人都会承认，如果他征服了，佛罗伦萨人就会听从他的判断。斯福尔扎总是让布拉切斯基家族反对他，所以他们互相注视着对方。弗朗西斯科将他的野心转向了伦巴第。布拉奇奥反对教会和那不勒斯王国。但让我们来看看不久前发生的事情。佛罗伦萨人任命帕戈洛·维泰利为队长，他是一位非常谨慎的人，从一个私人职位一路晋升到了最大的声望。如果这个人占领了比萨，没有人可以否认，佛罗伦萨人留在他身边是合适的，因为如果他成为敌人的士兵，他们就没有办法抵抗，如果他们坚持他，他们就必须服从他。 威尼斯人，如果考虑到他们的成就，只要他们派出自己的人去打仗，他们就会被认为是安全而光荣的，而他们与武装的绅士和平民一起英勇作战。这是在他们转向陆上经营之前的事，但是当他们开始在陆上作战时，他们就放弃了这种美德并遵循了意大利的习俗。当他们开始在陆地上扩张时，由于没有太多领土，而且由于他们的名声很大，所以他们不必担心他们的首领。但当他们在卡米尼奥拉领导下扩张时，[#]他们尝到了这个错误的滋味；因为，一方面，他们发现他是一个最勇敢的人（他们在他的领导下击败了米兰公爵），另一方面，他们知道他在战争中是多么冷淡，他们担心他们将不再在他的领导下征服，为此因为他们不愿意，也不能让他走；因此，为了不再次失去他们所获得的东西，为了保护自己，他们被迫谋杀了他。后来他们有巴托洛梅奥·达·贝加莫、罗伯托·达·圣塞韦里诺、皮蒂利亚诺伯爵等人担任队长，在他们的领导下，他们不得不害怕损失而不是获得，就像后来在瓦伊拉发生的那样，[$]这场战斗让他们失去了八百年来历经千辛万苦才获得的东西。因为这种武器的征服来得缓慢、拖延时间长且微不足道，但损失却突然且可怕。

[*] Battle of Caravaggio, 15th September 1448.
[*] 卡拉瓦乔之战，1448 年 9 月 15 日。

[+] Johanna II of Naples, the widow of Ladislao, King of Naples.
[+] 那不勒斯的约翰娜二世，那不勒斯国王拉迪斯劳的遗孀。

[%] Giovanni Acuto. An English knight whose name was Sir John Hawkwood. He fought in the English wars in France, and was knighted by Edward III; afterwards he collected a body of troops and went into Italy. These became the famous ‘White Company.’ He took part in many wars, and died in Florence in 1394. He was born about 1320 at Sible Hedingham, a village in Essex. He married Domnia, a daughter of Bernabo Visconti.
[%] 乔瓦尼·阿库托。一位英国骑士，名叫约翰·霍克伍德爵士。他参加了英国在法国的战争，并被爱德华三世封为爵士。随后，他召集了一支军队，前往意大利。这些人后来成为著名的“怀特连”。他参加了许多战争，并于 1394 年在佛罗伦萨去世。他于 1320 年左右出生在埃塞克斯郡西布尔·海丁汉姆的一个村庄。他与伯纳博·维斯康蒂的女儿多姆尼亚结婚。

[#] Carmignuola. Francesco Bussone, born at Carmagnola about 1390, executed at Venice, 5th May 1432.
[#] 卡米尼奥拉。弗朗切斯科·布松 (Francesco Bussone) 于 1390 年左右出生于卡尔马尼奥拉 (Carmagnola)，1432 年 5 月 5 日在威尼斯被处决。

[&] Bartolomeo Colleoni of Bergamo; died 1457. Roberto of San Severino; died fighting for Venice against Sigismund, Duke of Austria, in 1487. ‘Primo capitano in Italia.’—Machiavelli. Count of Pitigliano; Nicolo Orsini, born 1442, died 1510.
[&] 贝加莫的巴托洛梅奥·科莱奥尼 (Bartolomeo Colleoni)；卒于 14​​57 年。圣塞韦里诺的罗伯托； 1487 年，他为威尼斯与奥地利公爵西吉斯蒙德作战而战死。“意大利首领”。——马基雅维利。皮蒂利亚诺伯爵；尼科洛·奥尔西尼 (Nicolo Orsini)，生于 1442 年，卒于 1510 年。

[$] Battle of Vaila in 1509.
[$] 1509 年瓦伊拉战役。

And as with these examples I have reached Italy, which has been ruled for many years by mercenaries, I wish to discuss them more seriously, in order that, having seen their rise and progress, one may be better prepared to counteract them. You must understand that the empire has recently come to be repudiated in Italy, that the Pope has acquired more temporal power, and that Italy has been divided up into more states, for the reason that many of the great cities took up arms against their nobles, who, formerly favoured by the emperor, were oppressing them, whilst the Church was favouring them so as to gain authority in temporal power: in many others their citizens became princes. From this it came to pass that Italy fell partly into the hands of the Church and of republics, and, the Church consisting of priests and the republic of citizens unaccustomed to arms, both commenced to enlist foreigners.
正如我所到的意大利，多年来一直被雇佣军统治一样，我希望更认真地讨论这些例子，以便在看到它们的崛起和进步后，可以更好地准备应对它们。你必须明白，帝国最近在意大利被否定了，教皇获得了更多的世俗权力，意大利被分裂成更多的国家，因为许多大城市拿起武器反对他们的贵族以前受到皇帝青睐的罗马人正在压迫他们，而教会却偏袒他们，以便获得世俗权力：在许多其他国家，他们的公民成为王子。由此，意大利部分落入教会和共和国手中，由神父组成的教会和不习惯武装的公民组成的共和国都开始招募外国人。

The first who gave renown to this soldiery was Alberigo da Conio,[*] the Romagnian. From the school of this man sprang, among others, Braccio and Sforza, who in their time were the arbiters of Italy. After these came all the other captains who till now have directed the arms of Italy; and the end of all their valour has been, that she has been overrun by Charles, robbed by Louis, ravaged by Ferdinand, and insulted by the Switzers. The principle that has guided them has been, first, to lower the credit of infantry so that they might increase their own. They did this because, subsisting on their pay and without territory, they were unable to support many soldiers, and a few infantry did not give them any authority; so they were led to employ cavalry, with a moderate force of which they were maintained and honoured; and affairs were brought to such a pass that, in an army of twenty thousand soldiers, there were not to be found two thousand foot soldiers. They had, besides this, used every art to lessen fatigue and danger to themselves and their soldiers, not killing in the fray, but taking prisoners and liberating without ransom. They did not attack towns at night, nor did the garrisons of the towns attack encampments at night; they did not surround the camp either with stockade or ditch, nor did they campaign in the winter. All these things were permitted by their military rules, and devised by them to avoid, as I have said, both fatigue and dangers; thus they have brought Italy to slavery and contempt.
第一个让这支军队声名大噪的是罗马尼亚人阿尔贝里戈·达·科尼奥（Alberigo da Conio）。布拉奇奥（Braccio）和斯福尔扎（Sforza）等人就是从这个人的学校中诞生的，他们是当时意大利的仲裁者。在他们之后是所有其他的将领，他们迄今为止一直指挥着意大利的军队。他们所有英勇的结局都是，她被查理蹂躏，被路易抢劫，被费迪南德蹂躏，被瑞士人侮辱。指导他们的原则是，首先，降低步兵的信用，以便他们可以增加自己的信用。他们之所以这样做，是因为他们靠工资维持生计，没有领土，无法养活许多士兵，而少数步兵也不能给他们任何权力；因此，他们被引导使用骑兵，并保持适度的力量并受到尊重。事情发展到这样的地步，两万士兵的军队中，找不到两千步兵。除此之外，他们还使用一切手段来减轻自己和士兵的疲劳和危险，不是在战斗中杀人，而是俘虏俘虏并在没有赎金的情况下释放。他们不夜间攻击城镇，城镇的守军也不夜间攻击营地；他们没有用栅栏或沟渠围住营地，也没有在冬天作战。所有这些事情都是他们的军事规则所允许的，并且是他们设计的，正如我所说的，以避免疲劳和危险。因此，他们使意大利遭受奴役和蔑视。

[*] Alberigo da Conio. Alberico da Barbiano, Count of Cunio in Romagna. He was the leader of the famous ‘Company of St George,’ composed entirely of Italian soldiers. He died in 1409.
[*] 阿尔贝里戈·达·科尼奥。阿尔贝里科·达·巴尔比亚诺 (Alberico da Barbiano)，罗马涅库尼奥伯爵。他是著名的“圣乔治连”的领导者，该连全部由意大利士兵组成。他于 1409 年去世。

CHAPTER XIII. CONCERNING AUXILIARIES, MIXED SOLDIERY, AND ONE’S OWN
第十三章。关于辅助部队、混成部队和己方部队

Auxiliaries, which are the other useless arm, are employed when a prince is called in with his forces to aid and defend, as was done by Pope Julius in the most recent times; for he, having, in the enterprise against Ferrara, had poor proof of his mercenaries, turned to auxiliaries, and stipulated with Ferdinand, King of Spain,[*] for his assistance with men and arms. These arms may be useful and good in themselves, but for him who calls them in they are always disadvantageous; for losing, one is undone, and winning, one is their captive.
辅助部队是另一种无用的武器，当王子被召集到他的军队来援助和防御时，就会使用辅助部队，就像最近教皇朱利叶斯所做的那样。因为他在攻打费拉拉的行动中，他的雇佣军实力不足，转而求助于辅助军，并与西班牙国王费迪南德达成协议，要求他提供人力和武器援助。这些武器本身可能是有用的、好的，但对于召唤它们的人来说，它们总是不利的。输了，就完蛋了；赢了，就成了俘虏。

[*] Ferdinand V (F. II of Aragon and Sicily, F. III of Naples), surnamed ‘The Catholic,’ born 1542, died 1516.
[*] 斐迪南五世（阿拉贡和西西里岛的 F. II，那不勒斯的 F. III），姓“天主教徒”，生于 1542 年，卒于 1516 年。

And although ancient histories may be full of examples, I do not wish to leave this recent one of Pope Julius the Second, the peril of which cannot fail to be perceived; for he, wishing to get Ferrara, threw himself entirely into the hands of the foreigner. But his good fortune brought about a third event, so that he did not reap the fruit of his rash choice; because, having his auxiliaries routed at Ravenna, and the Switzers having risen and driven out the conquerors (against all expectation, both his and others), it so came to pass that he did not become prisoner to his enemies, they having fled, nor to his auxiliaries, he having conquered by other arms than theirs.
尽管古代历史可能充满了这样的例子，但我不想离开教皇朱利叶斯二世的最近一个例子，它的危险是显而易见的；因为他为了得到费拉拉，就把自己完全交给了外国人。但他的好运气却带来了第三件事，使他没有收获自己鲁莽选择的果子。因为，他的辅助部队在拉文纳被击溃，瑞士人起义并驱逐了征服者（出乎他和其他人的意料），他并没有成为敌人的俘虏，他们已经逃跑了，也没有成为敌人的俘虏。对于他的辅助者来说，他是用其他武器而不是他们的武器征服的。

The Florentines, being entirely without arms, sent ten thousand Frenchmen to take Pisa, whereby they ran more danger than at any other time of their troubles.
佛罗伦萨人在完全没有武器的情况下，派遣了一万名法国人攻占比萨，从而使他们面临着比以往任何时候都更加危险的危险。

The Emperor of Constantinople,[*] to oppose his neighbours, sent ten thousand Turks into Greece, who, on the war being finished, were not willing to quit; this was the beginning of the servitude of Greece to the infidels.
君士坦丁堡皇帝为了对抗他的邻国，派遣了一万名土耳其人进入希腊，但战争结束后，他们并不愿意退出。这是希腊对异教徒奴役的开始。

[*] Joannes Cantacuzenus, born 1300, died 1383.
[*] 乔安妮斯·坎塔库泽努斯 (Joannes Cantacuzenus)，生于 1300 年，卒于 1383 年。

Therefore, let him who has no desire to conquer make use of these arms, for they are much more hazardous than mercenaries, because with them the ruin is ready made; they are all united, all yield obedience to others; but with mercenaries, when they have conquered, more time and better opportunities are needed to injure you; they are not all of one community, they are found and paid by you, and a third party, which you have made their head, is not able all at once to assume enough authority to injure you. In conclusion, in mercenaries dastardy is most dangerous; in auxiliaries, valour. The wise prince, therefore, has always avoided these arms and turned to his own; and has been willing rather to lose with them than to conquer with the others, not deeming that a real victory which is gained with the arms of others.
因此，让那些没有征服欲望的人使用这些武器吧，因为他们比雇佣兵危险得多，因为有了他们，毁灭就已成定局。他们都团结一致，都服从他人；但对于雇佣兵来说，当他们征服了你之后，就需要更多的时间和更好的机会来伤害你；他们并不都是同一个团体的，他们是由你找到并付钱的，而你所领导的第三方不可能一下子拥有足够的权力来伤害你。总而言之，在雇佣兵中，卑鄙是最危险的；在辅助方面，勇气。因此，聪明的王子总是避开这些武器，转而使用自己的武器。宁愿和他们一起失败，也不愿意和别人一起胜利，不认为真正的胜利是用别人的武器取得的。

I shall never hesitate to cite Cesare Borgia and his actions. This duke entered the Romagna with auxiliaries, taking there only French soldiers, and with them he captured Imola and Forli; but afterwards, such forces not appearing to him reliable, he turned to mercenaries, discerning less danger in them, and enlisted the Orsini and Vitelli; whom presently, on handling and finding them doubtful, unfaithful, and dangerous, he destroyed and turned to his own men. And the difference between one and the other of these forces can easily be seen when one considers the difference there was in the reputation of the duke, when he had the French, when he had the Orsini and Vitelli, and when he relied on his own soldiers, on whose fidelity he could always count and found it ever increasing; he was never esteemed more highly than when every one saw that he was complete master of his own forces.
我会毫不犹豫地引用切萨雷·博吉亚和他的行为。这位公爵带着辅助部队进入罗马涅，只带了法国士兵，并与他们一起占领了伊莫拉和弗利。但后来，这些军队在他看来并不可靠，他转向雇佣兵，发现他们的危险较小，并招募了奥尔西尼和维泰利。不久，当他处理并发现他们可疑、不忠和危险时，他消灭了他们并转向他自己的人。当人们考虑一下公爵的声誉时，当他拥有法国人时，当他拥有奥尔西尼和维泰利时，以及当他依靠自己的声誉时，这些力量中的一种和另一种之间的差异就很容易看出。士兵们，他总是可以信赖他们的忠诚度，并且发现他们的忠诚度在不断增加；当每个人都看到他完全掌握了自己的力量时，他就受到了前所未有的高度尊重。

I was not intending to go beyond Italian and recent examples, but I am unwilling to leave out Hiero, the Syracusan, he being one of those I have named above. This man, as I have said, made head of the army by the Syracusans, soon found out that a mercenary soldiery, constituted like our Italian condottieri, was of no use; and it appearing to him that he could neither keep them not let them go, he had them all cut to pieces, and afterwards made war with his own forces and not with aliens.
我无意超越意大利和最近的例子，但我不愿意遗漏希罗，锡拉库扎人，他是我上面提到的人之一。正如我所说，这个由叙拉古人任命为军队首领的人很快就发现，像我们意大利雇佣兵那样组成的雇佣兵是没有用的；在他看来，他既不能留住他们，也不能让他们走，他把他们全部砍成碎片，然后与自己的军队而不是与外星人作战。

I wish also to recall to memory an instance from the Old Testament applicable to this subject. David offered himself to Saul to fight with Goliath, the Philistine champion, and, to give him courage, Saul armed him with his own weapons; which David rejected as soon as he had them on his back, saying he could make no use of them, and that he wished to meet the enemy with his sling and his knife. In conclusion, the arms of others either fall from your back, or they weigh you down, or they bind you fast.
我还想回忆一下《旧约》中适用于这个主题的一个例子。大卫向扫罗提出与非利士勇士歌利亚作战，为了给他勇气，扫罗用自己的武器武装了他。大卫一背上它们就拒绝了，说他无法使用它们，他希望用投石器和刀来迎击敌人。总之，别人的手臂要么从你的背上掉下来，要么压垮你，要么把你牢牢地束缚住。

Charles the Seventh,[*] the father of King Louis the Eleventh,[+] having by good fortune and valour liberated France from the English, recognized the necessity of being armed with forces of his own, and he established in his kingdom ordinances concerning men-at-arms and infantry. Afterwards his son, King Louis, abolished the infantry and began to enlist the Switzers, which mistake, followed by others, is, as is now seen, a source of peril to that kingdom; because, having raised the reputation of the Switzers, he has entirely diminished the value of his own arms, for he has destroyed the infantry altogether; and his men-at-arms he has subordinated to others, for, being as they are so accustomed to fight along with Switzers, it does not appear that they can now conquer without them. Hence it arises that the French cannot stand against the Switzers, and without the Switzers they do not come off well against others. The armies of the French have thus become mixed, partly mercenary and partly national, both of which arms together are much better than mercenaries alone or auxiliaries alone, but much inferior to one’s own forces. And this example proves it, for the kingdom of France would be unconquerable if the ordinance of Charles had been enlarged or maintained.
查理七世，[*]国王路易十一世的父亲，[+]凭借好运和英勇将法国从英国手中解放出来，他认识到武装自己军队的必要性，并在他的王国中制定了有关以下方面的法令：武装人员和步兵。后来，他的儿子路易国王废除了步兵，开始招募瑞士人，这一错误以及后来的其他错误，正如现在所看到的，是该王国的危险根源；因为，他提高了瑞士人的声誉，却完全降低了自己武器的价值，因为他完全摧毁了步兵；他还让他的武装人员服从于其他人，因为他们习惯于与瑞士人并肩作战，现在看来，如果没有他们，他们就无法征服。因此，法国人无法对抗瑞士人，而没有瑞士人，他们就无法很好地对抗其他国家。法国人的军队就这样变得混合起来，一部分是雇佣军，一部分是民族的，这两种军队在一起比单独的雇佣兵或单独的辅助部队要好得多，但比自己的军队要差得多。这个例子证明了这一点，因为如果扩大或维持查理的法令，法兰西王国将是不可征服的。

[*] Charles VII of France, surnamed ‘The Victorious,’ born 1403, died 1461.
[*] 法国查理七世，姓“胜利者”，生于 1403 年，卒于 14​​61 年。

[+] Louis XI, son of the above, born 1423, died 1483.
[+] 路易十一世，上述之子，生于 1423 年，卒于 14​​83 年。

But the scanty wisdom of man, on entering into an affair which looks well at first, cannot discern the poison that is hidden in it, as I have said above of hectic fevers. Therefore, if he who rules a principality cannot recognize evils until they are upon him, he is not truly wise; and this insight is given to few. And if the first disaster to the Roman Empire[*] should be examined, it will be found to have commenced only with the enlisting of the Goths; because from that time the vigour of the Roman Empire began to decline, and all that valour which had raised it passed away to others.
但是，人类智慧的贫乏，在进入一件乍看起来不错的事情时，无法辨别其中隐藏的毒害，正如我在上面谈到的热病一样。因此，统治一个国家的人如果在邪恶降临到自己身上之前才认识到邪恶，那么他就不是真正的明智者；而这种洞察力只为少数人所拥有。如果对罗马帝国[*]的第一次灾难进行考察，就会发现它只是从哥特人的入伍开始的。因为从那时起，罗马帝国的活力开始衰落，所有曾使罗马帝国崛起的勇气都传给了其他人。

[*] ‘Many speakers to the House the other night in the debate on the reduction of armaments seemed to show a most lamentable ignorance of the conditions under which the British Empire maintains its existence. When Mr Balfour replied to the allegations that the Roman Empire sank under the weight of its military obligations, he said that this was ‘wholly unhistorical.’ He might well have added that the Roman power was at its zenith when every citizen acknowledged his liability to fight for the State, but that it began to decline as soon as this obligation was no longer recognized.’—Pall Mall Gazette, 15th May 1906.
[*]“前几天晚上，众议院的许多发言者在有关削减军备的辩论中似乎对大英帝国维持其存在的条件表现出极其可悲的无知。当贝尔福先生回答有关罗马帝国在其军事义务的重压下沉没的指控时，他说这是“完全不符合历史的”。为国家而战，但一旦这项义务不再得到承认，国家就开始衰落。”——《蓓尔美尔公报》，1906 年 5 月 15 日。

I conclude, therefore, that no principality is secure without having its own forces; on the contrary, it is entirely dependent on good fortune, not having the valour which in adversity would defend it. And it has always been the opinion and judgment of wise men that nothing can be so uncertain or unstable as fame or power not founded on its own strength. And one’s own forces are those which are composed either of subjects, citizens, or dependents; all others are mercenaries or auxiliaries. And the way to make ready one’s own forces will be easily found if the rules suggested by me shall be reflected upon, and if one will consider how Philip, the father of Alexander the Great, and many republics and princes have armed and organized themselves, to which rules I entirely commit myself.
因此，我的结论是，如果没有自己的军队，任何公国都是不安全的。相反，它完全依赖于好运气，而没有在逆境中捍卫它的勇气。智者一直认为，没有什么比不建立在自身力量上的名声或权力更不确定或不稳定的了。一个国家自己的力量是由臣民、公民或附属者组成的；其他人都是雇佣兵或辅助人员。如果人们认真思考我提出的规则，并且考虑亚历山大大帝的父亲腓力以及许多共和国和王子如何武装和组织自己，那么准备自己的军队的方法就会很容易找到。我完全遵守这些规则。

CHAPTER XIV. THAT WHICH CONCERNS A PRINCE ON THE SUBJECT OF THE ART OF WAR
第十四章。与王子有关的孙子兵法

A prince ought to have no other aim or thought, nor select anything else for his study, than war and its rules and discipline; for this is the sole art that belongs to him who rules, and it is of such force that it not only upholds those who are born princes, but it often enables men to rise from a private station to that rank. And, on the contrary, it is seen that when princes have thought more of ease than of arms they have lost their states. And the first cause of your losing it is to neglect this art; and what enables you to acquire a state is to be master of the art. Francesco Sforza, through being martial, from a private person became Duke of Milan; and the sons, through avoiding the hardships and troubles of arms, from dukes became private persons. For among other evils which being unarmed brings you, it causes you to be despised, and this is one of those ignominies against which a prince ought to guard himself, as is shown later on. Because there is nothing proportionate between the armed and the unarmed; and it is not reasonable that he who is armed should yield obedience willingly to him who is unarmed, or that the unarmed man should be secure among armed servants. Because, there being in the one disdain and in the other suspicion, it is not possible for them to work well together. And therefore a prince who does not understand the art of war, over and above the other misfortunes already mentioned, cannot be respected by his soldiers, nor can he rely on them. He ought never, therefore, to have out of his thoughts this subject of war, and in peace he should addict himself more to its exercise than in war; this he can do in two ways, the one by action, the other by study.
除了战争及其规则和纪律之外，君主不应有任何其他目标或思想，也不应选择任何其他东西来研究；因为这是属于统治者的唯一艺术，它的力量如此之大，以至于它不仅支持那些天生的王子，而且常常使人们从一个私人职位晋升到这个级别。相反，当君主们更多地考虑安逸而不是武力时，他们就会失去国家。而你失去它的第一个原因就是忽视了这门艺术；使你获得境界的，就是成为艺术的大师。弗朗切斯科·斯福尔扎因尚武，从私人成为米兰公爵；公爵的儿子们则通过避免武力的艰辛和麻烦，成为了私人。因为手无寸铁给你带来的诸多罪恶之一，就是让你受到鄙视，这是王子应该警惕的耻辱之一，正如稍后所示。因为武装和非武装之间不存在比例关系；武装的人应该心甘情愿地服从手无寸铁的人，或者手无寸铁的人应该在武装的仆人中保持安全，这是不合理的。因为，一是蔑视，一是怀疑，他们不可能很好地合作。因此，一个不懂兵法的君主，除了前面提到的其他不幸之外，就不能得到他的士兵的尊重，也不能依靠他们。因此，他永远不应该把战争这个话题从他的思想中抹去，而且在和平时期，他应该比在战争时期更沉迷于它的运用。他可以通过两种方式做到这一点，一是通过行动，二是通过学习。

As regards action, he ought above all things to keep his men well organized and drilled, to follow incessantly the chase, by which he accustoms his body to hardships, and learns something of the nature of localities, and gets to find out how the mountains rise, how the valleys open out, how the plains lie, and to understand the nature of rivers and marshes, and in all this to take the greatest care. Which knowledge is useful in two ways. Firstly, he learns to know his country, and is better able to undertake its defence; afterwards, by means of the knowledge and observation of that locality, he understands with ease any other which it may be necessary for him to study hereafter; because the hills, valleys, and plains, and rivers and marshes that are, for instance, in Tuscany, have a certain resemblance to those of other countries, so that with a knowledge of the aspect of one country one can easily arrive at a knowledge of others. And the prince that lacks this skill lacks the essential which it is desirable that a captain should possess, for it teaches him to surprise his enemy, to select quarters, to lead armies, to array the battle, to besiege towns to advantage.
在行动上，首先要让自己的人有组织、有训练，不断地追赶，使自己的身体习惯吃苦，了解地方的性质，了解山地的情况。地势上升，山谷如何展开，平原如何平躺，了解河流和沼泽的性质，在这一切中要格外小心。哪些知识有两个用途。首先，他学会了了解自己的国家，并能够更好地保卫国家；之后，通过对当地的了解和观察，他可以轻松地了解他以后可能需要学习的任何其他地方；因为托斯卡纳等地的丘陵、山谷、平原、河流、沼泽，与其他国家有一定的相似之处，因此，了解一个国家的面貌，就可以很容易地得出一种认识。别人的。缺乏这种技能的君主就缺乏将领所应具备的基本素质，因为它教会他如何奇袭敌人、选择营地、领导军队、布置战斗、围攻城镇以取得优势。

Philopoemen,[*] Prince of the Achaeans, among other praises which writers have bestowed on him, is commended because in time of peace he never had anything in his mind but the rules of war; and when he was in the country with friends, he often stopped and reasoned with them: ‘If the enemy should be upon that hill, and we should find ourselves here with our army, with whom would be the advantage? How should one best advance to meet him, keeping the ranks? If we should wish to retreat, how ought we to pursue?’ And he would set forth to them, as he went, all the chances that could befall an army; he would listen to their opinion and state his, confirming it with reasons, so that by these continual discussions there could never arise, in time of war, any unexpected circumstances that he could not deal with.
亚该亚王子菲洛波门（Philopoemen）在作家们给予他的诸多赞誉中，受到赞扬是因为在和平时期，他脑子里除了战争规则之外什么都没有。当他和朋友们在乡下时，他经常停下来和他们推理：“如果敌人在那座山上，而我们发现自己和我们的军队在这里，那么谁会更有优势呢？”一个人应该怎样才能最好地与他会面，并保持队伍的稳定呢？如果我们想撤退，我们应该如何追击？他会听取他们的意见并陈述自己的意见，并用理由来证实，这样，通过这些不断的讨论，在战争时期就不会出现任何他无法应对的意外情况。

[*] Philopoemen, ‘the last of the Greeks,’ born 252 B.C., died 183 B.C.
[*] Philopoemen，“最后的希腊人”，生于公元前 252 年，卒于公元前 183 年。

But to exercise the intellect the prince should read histories, and study there the actions of illustrious men, to see how they have borne themselves in war, to examine the causes of their victories and defeat, so as to avoid the latter and imitate the former; and above all do as an illustrious man did, who took as an exemplar one who had been praised and famous before him, and whose achievements and deeds he always kept in his mind, as it is said Alexander the Great imitated Achilles, Caesar Alexander, Scipio Cyrus. And whoever reads the life of Cyrus, written by Xenophon, will recognize afterwards in the life of Scipio how that imitation was his glory, and how in chastity, affability, humanity, and liberality Scipio conformed to those things which have been written of Cyrus by Xenophon. A wise prince ought to observe some such rules, and never in peaceful times stand idle, but increase his resources with industry in such a way that they may be available to him in adversity, so that if fortune chances it may find him prepared to resist her blows.
但要锻炼智力，君主应该阅读历史，研究伟人的事迹，了解他们在战争中的表现，研究他们胜利和失败的原因，从而避免后者而效仿前者。 ;最重要的是，像一位杰出的人那样行事，他以在他之前受到赞扬和闻名的人为榜样，他的成就和事迹他始终牢记在心，正如人们所说的亚历山大大帝模仿阿喀琉斯，凯撒亚历山大，西庇阿·赛勒斯.凡是读过色诺芬所写的居鲁士传记的人，后来都会在西庇阿的一生中认识到这种模仿是他的荣耀，以及西庇阿在贞洁、和蔼可亲、人性和慷慨方面如何符合色诺芬所写的居鲁士的那些东西。色诺芬。一个明智的君主应该遵守一些这样的规则，在和平时期决不闲着，而是以勤奋的方式增加他的资源，以便在逆境中可以为他所用，这样，如果幸运的机会，他可能会发现他准备抵抗她的打击。

CHAPTER XV. CONCERNING THINGS FOR WHICH MEN, AND ESPECIALLY PRINCES, ARE PRAISED OR BLAMED
第十五章。关于人们，特别是王子，受到赞扬或指责的事情

It remains now to see what ought to be the rules of conduct for a prince towards subject and friends. And as I know that many have written on this point, I expect I shall be considered presumptuous in mentioning it again, especially as in discussing it I shall depart from the methods of other people. But, it being my intention to write a thing which shall be useful to him who apprehends it, it appears to me more appropriate to follow up the real truth of the matter than the imagination of it; for many have pictured republics and principalities which in fact have never been known or seen, because how one lives is so far distant from how one ought to live, that he who neglects what is done for what ought to be done, sooner effects his ruin than his preservation; for a man who wishes to act entirely up to his professions of virtue soon meets with what destroys him among so much that is evil.
现在就看君主对待臣民和朋友的行为准则应该是什么。据我所知，许多人已经就这一点写过文章，我希望我再次提及它会被认为是自以为是，特别是在讨论它时我将偏离其他人的方法。但是，我的目的是写一篇对理解它的人有用的东西，在我看来，追随事情的真实真相比追寻它的想象更合适；因为许多人所描绘的共和国和公国实际上从未被了解或见过，因为一个人的生活方式与一个人应该如何生活相距甚远，以至于那些为了应该做的事情而忽视已做的事情的人，很快就会导致自己的毁灭比他的保存；因为一个人如果希望完全按照自己所宣称的美德行事，很快就会在众多邪恶之中遭遇毁灭他的事情。

Hence it is necessary for a prince wishing to hold his own to know how to do wrong, and to make use of it or not according to necessity. Therefore, putting on one side imaginary things concerning a prince, and discussing those which are real, I say that all men when they are spoken of, and chiefly princes for being more highly placed, are remarkable for some of those qualities which bring them either blame or praise; and thus it is that one is reputed liberal, another miserly, using a Tuscan term (because an avaricious person in our language is still he who desires to possess by robbery, whilst we call one miserly who deprives himself too much of the use of his own); one is reputed generous, one rapacious; one cruel, one compassionate; one faithless, another faithful; one effeminate and cowardly, another bold and brave; one affable, another haughty; one lascivious, another chaste; one sincere, another cunning; one hard, another easy; one grave, another frivolous; one religious, another unbelieving, and the like. And I know that every one will confess that it would be most praiseworthy in a prince to exhibit all the above qualities that are considered good; but because they can neither be entirely possessed nor observed, for human conditions do not permit it, it is necessary for him to be sufficiently prudent that he may know how to avoid the reproach of those vices which would lose him his state; and also to keep himself, if it be possible, from those which would not lose him it; but this not being possible, he may with less hesitation abandon himself to them. And again, he need not make himself uneasy at incurring a reproach for those vices without which the state can only be saved with difficulty, for if everything is considered carefully, it will be found that something which looks like virtue, if followed, would be his ruin; whilst something else, which looks like vice, yet followed brings him security and prosperity.
因此，一个想要保住自己的君主必须知道如何做错事，并根据需要使用或不使用它。因此，把有关王子的想象的事情放在一边，讨论那些真实的事情，我说，所有的人，尤其是地位较高的王子，在被谈论时都因某些品质而引人注目，这些品质使他们要么责备或赞扬；因此，用托斯卡纳术语来说，一个人被称为自由主义者，另一个人被称为吝啬鬼（因为在我们的语言中，一个贪婪的人仍然是那些渴望通过抢劫来占有的人，而我们称一个吝啬鬼，他过多地剥夺了自己使用他的财产的权利。自己的）;一种被认为是慷慨的，一种是被认为是贪婪的；一位残忍，一位慈悲；一个不忠，另一个忠诚；一个柔弱懦弱，另一个大胆勇敢；一个和蔼可亲，另一个傲慢；一个淫荡，另一个贞洁；一个真诚，另一个狡猾；一个难，另一个容易；一处坟墓，另一处轻浮；一个有宗教信仰，另一个不信教，等等。我知道每个人都会承认，一位王子若能表现出上述所有被认为是良好的品质，那将是最值得称赞的。但因为它们既不能完全拥有，也不能完全遵守，因为人类的条件不允许这样做，所以他必须足够谨慎，以便知道如何避免那些会使他失去地位的恶习的责备。如果可能的话，还要保护自己免受那些不愿失去他的人的影响。但这是不可能的，他可能会毫不犹豫地将自己交给他们。 再说一次，他不必因为自己因那些恶习而受到谴责而感到不安，没有这些恶习，国家就很难挽救，因为如果仔细考虑一切，就会发现，如果遵循一些看起来像美德的东西，就会被抛弃。他的毁灭；而其他一些看起来像恶习的东西，却给他带来了安全和繁荣。

CHAPTER XVI. CONCERNING LIBERALITY AND MEANNESS
第十六章。关于自由和吝啬

Commencing then with the first of the above-named characteristics, I say that it would be well to be reputed liberal. Nevertheless, liberality exercised in a way that does not bring you the reputation for it, injures you; for if one exercises it honestly and as it should be exercised, it may not become known, and you will not avoid the reproach of its opposite. Therefore, any one wishing to maintain among men the name of liberal is obliged to avoid no attribute of magnificence; so that a prince thus inclined will consume in such acts all his property, and will be compelled in the end, if he wish to maintain the name of liberal, to unduly weigh down his people, and tax them, and do everything he can to get money. This will soon make him odious to his subjects, and becoming poor he will be little valued by any one; thus, with his liberality, having offended many and rewarded few, he is affected by the very first trouble and imperilled by whatever may be the first danger; recognizing this himself, and wishing to draw back from it, he runs at once into the reproach of being miserly.
从上述第一个特征开始，我想说，被称为自由主义者是件好事。然而，施行慷慨不仅不会给你带来声誉，反而会伤害你；因为，如果一个人诚实地运用它，并且按照应有的方式运用它，它可能不会被人知道，而且你也无法避免其对立面的责备。因此，任何一个希望在人类中保持自由主义者之名的人都必须避免任何宏伟的特征；因此，一个有这种倾向的君主将在这种行为中消耗掉他所有的财产，如果他想维持自由主义的名声，最终他将被迫过度地压低他的人民，向他们征税，并尽他所能得到钱。这很快就会让他的臣民们对他感到厌恶，并且变得贫穷，他将不受任何人的重视。因此，由于他的慷慨，冒犯了许多人而得到了很少的人，他就会受到最初的麻烦的影响，并受到可能是最初的危险的威胁。他自己也认识到了这一点，并希望回避这一点，但他立即遭到了吝啬的责备。

Therefore, a prince, not being able to exercise this virtue of liberality in such a way that it is recognized, except to his cost, if he is wise he ought not to fear the reputation of being mean, for in time he will come to be more considered than if liberal, seeing that with his economy his revenues are enough, that he can defend himself against all attacks, and is able to engage in enterprises without burdening his people; thus it comes to pass that he exercises liberality towards all from whom he does not take, who are numberless, and meanness towards those to whom he does not give, who are few.
因此，一个君主，除非付出代价，否则无法以一种被认可的方式行使这种慷慨的美德，如果他是明智的，他就不应该担心被人认为是卑鄙的，因为随着时间的推移，他会变得卑鄙。比自由主义者更加深思熟虑，因为他的经济收入足够，他可以抵御所有攻击，并且能够在不给人民带来负担的情况下从事企业；因此，他对那些不被他索取的人，即无数的人，表现出慷慨；对那些他不给予的人，那些为数不多的人，则表现出吝啬。

We have not seen great things done in our time except by those who have been considered mean; the rest have failed. Pope Julius the Second was assisted in reaching the papacy by a reputation for liberality, yet he did not strive afterwards to keep it up, when he made war on the King of France; and he made many wars without imposing any extraordinary tax on his subjects, for he supplied his additional expenses out of his long thriftiness. The present King of Spain would not have undertaken or conquered in so many enterprises if he had been reputed liberal. A prince, therefore, provided that he has not to rob his subjects, that he can defend himself, that he does not become poor and abject, that he is not forced to become rapacious, ought to hold of little account a reputation for being mean, for it is one of those vices which will enable him to govern.
在我们这个时代，除了那些被认为卑鄙的人之外，我们还没有见过伟大的事情。其余的都失败了。教皇朱利叶斯二世凭借慷慨的声誉登上了教皇宝座，但后来当他与法国国王开战时，他并没有努力保持这种声誉。他发动了许多战争，却没有向他的臣民征收任何额外的税收，因为他出于长期节俭而支付了额外的开支。如果现任西班牙国王以自由主义者着称，他就不会承担或征服如此多的事业。因此，一个君主只要不掠夺臣民的财产，能够保卫自己，不致贫穷卑贱，不被迫变得贪婪，就应该不被认为是卑鄙的。 ，因为这是使他能够执政的恶习之一。

And if any one should say: Caesar obtained empire by liberality, and many others have reached the highest positions by having been liberal, and by being considered so, I answer: Either you are a prince in fact, or in a way to become one. In the first case this liberality is dangerous, in the second it is very necessary to be considered liberal; and Caesar was one of those who wished to become pre-eminent in Rome; but if he had survived after becoming so, and had not moderated his expenses, he would have destroyed his government. And if any one should reply: Many have been princes, and have done great things with armies, who have been considered very liberal, I reply: Either a prince spends that which is his own or his subjects’ or else that of others. In the first case he ought to be sparing, in the second he ought not to neglect any opportunity for liberality. And to the prince who goes forth with his army, supporting it by pillage, sack, and extortion, handling that which belongs to others, this liberality is necessary, otherwise he would not be followed by soldiers. And of that which is neither yours nor your subjects’ you can be a ready giver, as were Cyrus, Caesar, and Alexander; because it does not take away your reputation if you squander that of others, but adds to it; it is only squandering your own that injures you.
如果有人说：凯撒通过慷慨获得了帝国，而其他许多人则通过慷慨而达到了最高职位，并且被认为是这样，我的回答是：要么你实际上是一位王子，要么在某种程度上成为一位王子。 。在第一种情况下，这种慷慨是危险的，在第二种情况下，则非常有必要被视为自由；凯撒是那些希望成为罗马杰出人物的人之一。但如果他在成为这样的情况后幸存下来，并且没有节制他的开支，他就会摧毁他的政府。如果有人回答：许多人曾经是王子，并在军队中做出了伟大的事情，他们被认为是非常自由的，我会回答：王子要么花掉他自己的钱，要么花掉他臣民的钱，要么花掉别人的钱。在第一种情况下，他应该节俭，在第二种情况下，他不应该忽视任何慷慨的机会。而对于率领军队出征、以掠夺、掠夺、勒索来支持军队、处理属于他人的东西的王子来说，这种慷慨是必要的，否则他不会被士兵追随。对于既不属于你也不属于你的臣民的东西，你可以像居鲁士、凯撒和亚历山大一样随时准备给予。因为如果你浪费了别人的名誉，它不会夺走你的名誉，反而会增加你的名誉；只有浪费你自己的东西才会伤害你。

And there is nothing wastes so rapidly as liberality, for even whilst you exercise it you lose the power to do so, and so become either poor or despised, or else, in avoiding poverty, rapacious and hated. And a prince should guard himself, above all things, against being despised and hated; and liberality leads you to both. Therefore it is wiser to have a reputation for meanness which brings reproach without hatred, than to be compelled through seeking a reputation for liberality to incur a name for rapacity which begets reproach with hatred.
没有什么比慷慨更容易浪费的了，因为即使你行使了它，你也失去了这样做的能力，因此要么变得贫穷，要么被鄙视，要么在避免贫穷的过程中变得贪婪和仇恨。君主最重要的是要保护自己，防止被人轻视和憎恨。慷慨会让你两者兼而有之。因此，明智的做法是拥有卑鄙的名声，带来不带仇恨的责备，而不是因为寻求慷慨的名声而被迫招致贪婪的名声，而贪婪的名声会招致仇恨的责备。

CHAPTER XVII. CONCERNING CRUELTY AND CLEMENCY, AND WHETHER IT IS BETTER TO BE LOVED THAN FEARED
第十七章。关于残酷与仁慈，以及被爱比被恐惧更好

Coming now to the other qualities mentioned above, I say that every prince ought to desire to be considered clement and not cruel. Nevertheless he ought to take care not to misuse this clemency. Cesare Borgia was considered cruel; notwithstanding, his cruelty reconciled the Romagna, unified it, and restored it to peace and loyalty. And if this be rightly considered, he will be seen to have been much more merciful than the Florentine people, who, to avoid a reputation for cruelty, permitted Pistoia to be destroyed.[*] Therefore a prince, so long as he keeps his subjects united and loyal, ought not to mind the reproach of cruelty; because with a few examples he will be more merciful than those who, through too much mercy, allow disorders to arise, from which follow murders or robberies; for these are wont to injure the whole people, whilst those executions which originate with a prince offend the individual only.
现在谈到上面提到的其他品质，我想说的是，每个王子都应该希望被认为是仁慈的，而不是残忍的。尽管如此，他还是应该注意不要滥用这种仁慈。切萨雷·博吉亚被认为是残忍的。尽管如此，他的残酷行为还是使罗马涅人和解，统一了它，并恢复了和平与忠诚。如果正确地考虑这一点，人们会认为他比佛罗伦萨人民仁慈得多，佛罗伦萨人民为了避免残酷的名声，允许皮斯托亚被摧毁。[*]因此，只要他保留自己的王位，他就是一位王子。臣民团结而忠诚，不应介意残酷的指责；因为只要举出几个例子，他就会比那些因过多的仁慈而导致骚乱而导致谋杀或抢劫的人更加仁慈。因为这些行刑通常会伤害全体人民，而那些源自王子的处决只会冒犯个人。

[*] During the rioting between the Cancellieri and Panciatichi factions in 1502 and 1503.
[*] 1502 年和 1503 年 Cancellieri 派和 Panciatichi 派之间的骚乱期间。

And of all princes, it is impossible for the new prince to avoid the imputation of cruelty, owing to new states being full of dangers. Hence Virgil, through the mouth of Dido, excuses the inhumanity of her reign owing to its being new, saying:
而在所有的诸侯中，新诸侯难免被指责为残暴，因为新的国家充满了危险。因此，维吉尔通过狄多之口，为她的统治的不人道行为辩解，因为它是新的，他说：

‘Res dura, et regni novitas me talia cogunt Moliri, et late fines custode tueri.’[*]
“Res dura, et regni novitas me talia cogunt Moliri, et Latefines custode tueri。”[*]

Nevertheless he ought to be slow to believe and to act, nor should he himself show fear, but proceed in a temperate manner with prudence and humanity, so that too much confidence may not make him incautious and too much distrust render him intolerable.
然而，他应该慢慢地相信和行动，他自己也不应该表现出恐惧，而应该以谨慎和仁慈的方式谨慎行事，以免过多的信任使他变得不谨慎，过多的不信任使他难以忍受。

[*] … against my will, my fate A throne unsettled, and an infant state, Bid me defend my realms with all my pow’rs, And guard with these severities my shores.
[*] ……违背我的意愿，我的命运 一个不稳定的王座，一个婴儿国家， 要求我用我所有的力量保卫我的领域，并用这些严厉的措施守卫我的海岸。

Christopher Pitt.
克里斯托弗·皮特。

Upon this a question arises: whether it be better to be loved than feared or feared than loved? It may be answered that one should wish to be both, but, because it is difficult to unite them in one person, it is much safer to be feared than loved, when, of the two, either must be dispensed with. Because this is to be asserted in general of men, that they are ungrateful, fickle, false, cowardly, covetous, and as long as you succeed they are yours entirely; they will offer you their blood, property, life, and children, as is said above, when the need is far distant; but when it approaches they turn against you. And that prince who, relying entirely on their promises, has neglected other precautions, is ruined; because friendships that are obtained by payments, and not by greatness or nobility of mind, may indeed be earned, but they are not secured, and in time of need cannot be relied upon; and men have less scruple in offending one who is beloved than one who is feared, for love is preserved by the link of obligation which, owing to the baseness of men, is broken at every opportunity for their advantage; but fear preserves you by a dread of punishment which never fails.
由此产生了一个问题：是被爱比被恐惧更好，还是被恐惧比被爱更好？也许有人会回答说，一个人应该希望两者兼而有之，但是，因为很难将它们统一在一个人身上，所以当两者中的任何一个都必须被放弃时，被恐惧比被爱要安全得多。因为一般人都会断言，他们是忘恩负义的、善变的、虚伪的、懦弱的、贪婪的，只要你成功了，他们就完全是你的了；正如上面所说，当需要遥远时，他们会为你提供他们的鲜血、财产、生命和孩子；但当它接近时，他们就会反对你。而那位完全依赖他们的承诺而忽视了其他预防措施的王子则被毁了。因为通过付出而不是通过伟大或高尚的思想而获得的友谊确实可以赢得，但它们并没有保障，而且在需要的时候也不能依赖；人们在冒犯所爱的人时比冒犯令人畏惧的人时更不顾忌，因为爱是通过义务的纽带得以保存的，而由于人的卑鄙，这种纽带会为了自己的利益而一有机会就被打破。但恐惧通过对永远不会失败的惩罚的恐惧来保护你。

Nevertheless a prince ought to inspire fear in such a way that, if he does not win love, he avoids hatred; because he can endure very well being feared whilst he is not hated, which will always be as long as he abstains from the property of his citizens and subjects and from their women. But when it is necessary for him to proceed against the life of someone, he must do it on proper justification and for manifest cause, but above all things he must keep his hands off the property of others, because men more quickly forget the death of their father than the loss of their patrimony. Besides, pretexts for taking away the property are never wanting; for he who has once begun to live by robbery will always find pretexts for seizing what belongs to others; but reasons for taking life, on the contrary, are more difficult to find and sooner lapse. But when a prince is with his army, and has under control a multitude of soldiers, then it is quite necessary for him to disregard the reputation of cruelty, for without it he would never hold his army united or disposed to its duties.
然而，君主应该以这样的方式激发恐惧：如果他不能赢得爱，他就可以避免仇恨；因为他可以很好地忍受被人畏惧而不被人憎恨，只要他放弃公民和臣民的财产以及他们的妇女，这种情况就永远存在。但是，当他有必要对某人的生命采取行动时，他必须以适当的理由和明显的理由这样做，但最重要的是，他必须把手放在他人的财产上，因为人们更快地忘记了他人的死亡。他们的父亲比失去他们的遗产更重要。此外，夺走财产的借口从来都不是没有的。因为一旦开始以抢劫为生的人，总会找到借口夺取属于别人的东西。但相反，夺取生命的理由更难找到，也更容易消失。但是，当一个君主在他的军队中，并且控制着大量的士兵时，那么他就很有必要不顾残忍的名声，因为没有它，他永远不会让他的军队团结起来，也不会愿意履行职责。

Among the wonderful deeds of Hannibal this one is enumerated: that having led an enormous army, composed of many various races of men, to fight in foreign lands, no dissensions arose either among them or against the prince, whether in his bad or in his good fortune. This arose from nothing else than his inhuman cruelty, which, with his boundless valour, made him revered and terrible in the sight of his soldiers, but without that cruelty, his other virtues were not sufficient to produce this effect. And short-sighted writers admire his deeds from one point of view and from another condemn the principal cause of them. That it is true his other virtues would not have been sufficient for him may be proved by the case of Scipio, that most excellent man, not only of his own times but within the memory of man, against whom, nevertheless, his army rebelled in Spain; this arose from nothing but his too great forbearance, which gave his soldiers more license than is consistent with military discipline. For this he was upbraided in the Senate by Fabius Maximus, and called the corrupter of the Roman soldiery. The Locrians were laid waste by a legate of Scipio, yet they were not avenged by him, nor was the insolence of the legate punished, owing entirely to his easy nature. Insomuch that someone in the Senate, wishing to excuse him, said there were many men who knew much better how not to err than to correct the errors of others. This disposition, if he had been continued in the command, would have destroyed in time the fame and glory of Scipio; but, he being under the control of the Senate, this injurious characteristic not only concealed itself, but contributed to his glory.
汉尼拔的伟大事迹中有这样一项：他率领一支由许多不同种族的人组成的庞大军队，在异国他乡作战，他们之间或与王子之间没有发生任何争执，无论是因为他的坏事还是他的坏事。福。这无非是由于他非人的残忍，这使得他在士兵眼中既令人尊敬又可怕，但如果没有这种残忍，他的其他美德就不足以产生这种效果。而目光短浅的作家则从一个角度欣赏他的行为，从另一个角度谴责其行为的主要原因。确实，他的其他美德对他来说还不够，这可以通过西庇阿的例子得到证明，西庇阿是最杰出的人，不仅是他那个时代的人，而且是人类记忆中的最杰出的人，尽管如此，他的军队却背叛了西庇阿。西班牙;这完全是因为他过于克制，这给了他的士兵更多的自由，超出了军事纪律的范围。为此，他在元老院受到法比乌斯·马克西姆斯的斥责，并称他为罗马士兵的腐败者。洛克里亚人被西庇阿的使节蹂躏，但他没有为他们报仇，使节的傲慢也没有受到惩罚，这完全是由于他的随和性格。以至于参议院有人想为他辩解，他说有很多人更知道如何不犯错误，而不是纠正别人的错误。如果西庇阿继续指挥下去，他的这种性格很快就会毁掉西庇阿的名誉和荣耀。但是，由于他处于元老院的控制之下，这种有害的特征不仅被掩盖了，而且还助长了他的荣耀。

Returning to the question of being feared or loved, I come to the conclusion that, men loving according to their own will and fearing according to that of the prince, a wise prince should establish himself on that which is in his own control and not in that of others; he must endeavour only to avoid hatred, as is noted.
回到“畏”或“爱”的问题，我的结论是，人以己意而爱，以君而惧，贤明的君王应该立足于自己所能控制的事物，而不是自己所控制的事物。其他人的；如前所述，他必须努力避免仇恨。

CHAPTER XVIII[*]. CONCERNING THE WAY IN WHICH PRINCES SHOULD KEEP FAITH
第十八章[*]。论诸侯应如何守信

[*] ‘The present chapter has given greater offence than any other portion of Machiavelli’s writings.’ Burd, ‘Il Principe,’ p. 297.
[*]“本章比马基雅维利著作的任何其他部分都更加令人反感。”伯德，“Il Principe”，第 17 页。 297.

Every one admits how praiseworthy it is in a prince to keep faith, and to live with integrity and not with craft. Nevertheless our experience has been that those princes who have done great things have held good faith of little account, and have known how to circumvent the intellect of men by craft, and in the end have overcome those who have relied on their word. You must know there are two ways of contesting,[*] the one by the law, the other by force; the first method is proper to men, the second to beasts; but because the first is frequently not sufficient, it is necessary to have recourse to the second. Therefore it is necessary for a prince to understand how to avail himself of the beast and the man. This has been figuratively taught to princes by ancient writers, who describe how Achilles and many other princes of old were given to the Centaur Chiron to nurse, who brought them up in his discipline; which means solely that, as they had for a teacher one who was half beast and half man, so it is necessary for a prince to know how to make use of both natures, and that one without the other is not durable. A prince, therefore, being compelled knowingly to adopt the beast, ought to choose the fox and the lion; because the lion cannot defend himself against snares and the fox cannot defend himself against wolves. Therefore, it is necessary to be a fox to discover the snares and a lion to terrify the wolves. Those who rely simply on the lion do not understand what they are about. Therefore a wise lord cannot, nor ought he to, keep faith when such observance may be turned against him, and when the reasons that caused him to pledge it exist no longer. If men were entirely good this precept would not hold, but because they are bad, and will not keep faith with you, you too are not bound to observe it with them. Nor will there ever be wanting to a prince legitimate reasons to excuse this non-observance. Of this endless modern examples could be given, showing how many treaties and engagements have been made void and of no effect through the faithlessness of princes; and he who has known best how to employ the fox has succeeded best.
每个人都承认，对于一位王子来说，保持信仰、以正直而不是狡猾的方式生活是多么值得赞扬。然而我们的经验是，那些立下大功的君主却很少重视诚信，并且知道如何利用诡计来绕开人们的智力，并最终战胜那些信守诺言的人。你要知道，抗争的方式有两种，一种是通过法律，一种是通过武力；第一种方法适用于人类，第二种方法适用于野兽。但由于第一个往往不够，因此有必要求助于第二个。因此，君主必须懂得如何利用兽和人。古代作家们向王子们形象地教导了这一点，他们描述了阿喀琉斯和许多其他古代王子如何被交给半人马凯龙星来照顾，凯龙星将他们抚养长大。这仅仅意味着，正如他们所要求的老师是半兽半人一样，所以王子必须懂得如何利用两种本性，而没有另一种本性是不持久的。因此，王子在被迫收养野兽的情况下，应该选择狐狸和狮子。因为狮子无法防御陷阱，狐狸无法防御狼。因此，要做狐狸去发现陷阱，做狮子去吓唬狼群。那些仅仅依赖狮子的人并不了解它们的含义。因此，当这种遵守可能对他不利，并且当促使他发誓的理由不再存在时，明智的君主不能也不应该守信。 如果人是完全善良的，这条戒律就不会成立，但因为他们是坏人，不会对你保持信心，你也没有义务对他们遵守这条戒律。王子也不会有任何合理的理由来原谅这种不遵守规定的行为。现代的例子举不胜举，表明有多少条约和约定因诸侯的不忠而变得无效。谁最懂得如何利用狐狸，谁就最成功。

[*] ‘Contesting,’ i.e. ‘striving for mastery.’ Mr Burd points out that this passage is imitated directly from Cicero’s ‘De Officiis”: ‘Nam cum sint duo genera decertandi, unum per disceptationem, alterum per vim; cumque illud proprium sit hominis, hoc beluarum; confugiendum est ad posterius, si uti non licet superiore.’
[*]“竞争”，即“争取掌握”。伯德先生指出，这段话是直接模仿西塞罗的《De Officiis》：“Nam cum sint duo generica decertandi, unum per disceptationem, alterum per vim; cumque illud proprium sat hominis, hoc beluarum; Confugiendum est ad postarius, si uti non licet uppere.’

But it is necessary to know well how to disguise this characteristic, and to be a great pretender and dissembler; and men are so simple, and so subject to present necessities, that he who seeks to deceive will always find someone who will allow himself to be deceived. One recent example I cannot pass over in silence. Alexander the Sixth did nothing else but deceive men, nor ever thought of doing otherwise, and he always found victims; for there never was a man who had greater power in asserting, or who with greater oaths would affirm a thing, yet would observe it less; nevertheless his deceits always succeeded according to his wishes,[*] because he well understood this side of mankind.
但必须深知如何掩饰这一特征，成为一名伟大的伪装者和伪装者；人都是那么简单，又那么容易受制于眼前的需要，所以想要欺骗的人总会找到一个愿意让自己受欺骗的人。我不能默默地忽略最近的一个例子。亚历山大六世除了欺骗人之外，什么也没做，也从未想过做其他事，而且他总是找到受害者。因为从来没有一个人有更大的权力来断言，或者以更大的誓言来肯定一件事，但却很少遵守它。然而他的欺骗总是如愿得逞，因为他深知人类的这一面。

[*] ‘Nondimanco sempre gli succederono gli inganni (ad votum).’ The words ‘ad votum’ are omitted in the Testina addition, 1550.
[*]“Nondimanco semper gli succederono gli inganni (ad votum)”。1550 年 Testina 增补中省略了“ad votum”一词。

Alexander never did what he said, Cesare never said what he did.
亚历山大从不言出必行，切萨雷也从不言出必行。

Italian Proverb.
意大利谚语。

Therefore it is unnecessary for a prince to have all the good qualities I have enumerated, but it is very necessary to appear to have them. And I shall dare to say this also, that to have them and always to observe them is injurious, and that to appear to have them is useful; to appear merciful, faithful, humane, religious, upright, and to be so, but with a mind so framed that should you require not to be so, you may be able and know how to change to the opposite.
因此，一个王子没有必要具备我所列举的所有优秀品质，但表现出这些品质是非常有必要的。我还敢说，拥有它们并始终遵守它们是有害的，而表现出拥有它们却是有益的。表现得仁慈、忠诚、人道、虔诚、正直，而且要如此，但如果你要求不这样做，你可能能够并且知道如何改变到相反的状态。

And you have to understand this, that a prince, especially a new one, cannot observe all those things for which men are esteemed, being often forced, in order to maintain the state, to act contrary to fidelity,[*] friendship, humanity, and religion. Therefore it is necessary for him to have a mind ready to turn itself accordingly as the winds and variations of fortune force it, yet, as I have said above, not to diverge from the good if he can avoid doing so, but, if compelled, then to know how to set about it.
你必须明白这一点，一位王子，尤其是新任王子，不能遵守人们所尊重的所有事情，为了维持国家，常常被迫做出违背忠诚、[*]友谊、人性的行为和宗教。因此，他必须有一个准备好随着风向和命运的变化而相应地转动自己的思想，然而，正如我上面所说，如果他可以避免这样做，就不要偏离善，但如果被迫的话，然后知道如何着手。

[*] ‘Contrary to fidelity’ or ‘faith,’ ‘contro alla fede,’ and ‘tutto fede,’ ‘altogether faithful,’ in the next paragraph. It is noteworthy that these two phrases, ‘contro alla fede’ and ‘tutto fede,’ were omitted in the Testina edition, which was published with the sanction of the papal authorities. It may be that the meaning attached to the word ‘fede’ was ‘the faith,’ i.e. the Catholic creed, and not as rendered here ‘fidelity’ and ‘faithful.’ Observe that the word ‘religione’ was suffered to stand in the text of the Testina, being used to signify indifferently every shade of belief, as witness ‘the religion,’ a phrase inevitably employed to designate the Huguenot heresy. South in his Sermon IX, p. 69, ed. 1843, comments on this passage as follows: ‘That great patron and Coryphaeus of this tribe, Nicolo Machiavel, laid down this for a master rule in his political scheme: ‘That the show of religion was helpful to the politician, but the reality of it hurtful and pernicious.’’
[*]下一段中的“与忠诚相反”或“信仰”、“contro alla fede”和“tutto fede”，“完全忠诚”。值得注意的是，经教皇当局批准出版的特斯蒂纳版本中省略了“contro alla fede”和“tutto fede”这两个短语。 “fede”一词的含义可能是“信仰”，即天主教信条，而不是这里所翻译的“忠诚”和“忠实”。请注意，“宗教”一词被允许站在天主教的信条中。泰斯蒂纳的文本，被用来冷漠地表示各种信仰，作为“宗教”的见证，这个短语不可避免地用来指代胡格诺派异端。南在他的布道九，p。 69，编辑。 1843 年，对这段话的评论如下：“这个部落的伟大赞助人和科里斐乌斯，尼科洛·马基雅维尔，在他的政治计划中制定了这一原则：‘宗教的表现对政治家有帮助，但现实它既有害又有害。”

For this reason a prince ought to take care that he never lets anything slip from his lips that is not replete with the above-named five qualities, that he may appear to him who sees and hears him altogether merciful, faithful, humane, upright, and religious. There is nothing more necessary to appear to have than this last quality, inasmuch as men judge generally more by the eye than by the hand, because it belongs to everybody to see you, to few to come in touch with you. Every one sees what you appear to be, few really know what you are, and those few dare not oppose themselves to the opinion of the many, who have the majesty of the state to defend them; and in the actions of all men, and especially of princes, which it is not prudent to challenge, one judges by the result.
因此，君主应当注意，不可以从自己的嘴里说出任何不具备上述五种品质的言论，以便让见闻他的人看到他是仁慈的、忠诚的、仁慈的、正直的，和宗教。没有什么比这最后一种品质更需要表现出来了，因为人们通常更多地通过眼睛而不是手来判断，因为看到你的人属于每个人，接触你的人属于少数人。每个人都看到你的外表，很少有人真正了解你的本质，而那些少数人不敢反对多数人的意见，而多数人有国家的威严来保护他们；在所有人的行为中，尤其是君主的行为中，挑战它是不明智的，人们根据结果来判断。

For that reason, let a prince have the credit of conquering and holding his state, the means will always be considered honest, and he will be praised by everybody; because the vulgar are always taken by what a thing seems to be and by what comes of it; and in the world there are only the vulgar, for the few find a place there only when the many have no ground to rest on.
因此，君主若有征伐、保住国家的功劳，手段总是被认为是诚实的，而受到众人的称赞；因为粗俗的人总是被事物的表面和结果所吸引。世界上只有粗俗的人，因为只有当多数人没有立足之地时，少数人才能在那里找到一席之地。

One prince[*] of the present time, whom it is not well to name, never preaches anything else but peace and good faith, and to both he is most hostile, and either, if he had kept it, would have deprived him of reputation and kingdom many a time.
目前有一位王子[*]，他的名字不好说，他除了和平与诚信之外，从不宣扬任何其他东西，他对两者都怀有极大的敌意，如果他保留了这一点，就会剥夺他的权利。声誉和王国多次。

[*] Ferdinand of Aragon. ‘When Machiavelli was writing ‘The Prince’ it would have been clearly impossible to mention Ferdinand’s name here without giving offence.’ Burd’s ‘Il Principe,’ p. 308.
[*] 阿拉贡的斐迪南。 “当马基雅维利写《君主》时，在这里提及费迪南德的名字显然不可能不冒犯别人。”伯德的《王子》，第 17 页。 308.

CHAPTER XIX. THAT ONE SHOULD AVOID BEING DESPISED AND HATED
第十九章。一个人应该避免被鄙视和憎恨

Now, concerning the characteristics of which mention is made above, I have spoken of the more important ones, the others I wish to discuss briefly under this generality, that the prince must consider, as has been in part said before, how to avoid those things which will make him hated or contemptible; and as often as he shall have succeeded he will have fulfilled his part, and he need not fear any danger in other reproaches.
现在，关于上面提到的特征，我已经谈到了更重要的特征，我想在这个一般性下简要讨论其他特征，王子必须考虑，正如之前部分所说的，如何避免这些特征会使他被憎恨或蔑视的事情；只要他成功了，他就完成了他的职责，他不必担心其他指责带来的危险。

It makes him hated above all things, as I have said, to be rapacious, and to be a violator of the property and women of his subjects, from both of which he must abstain. And when neither their property nor their honor is touched, the majority of men live content, and he has only to contend with the ambition of a few, whom he can curb with ease in many ways.
正如我所说，这使他最令人憎恨的是贪婪，侵犯臣民的财产和妇女，而这两件事他都必须放弃。当他们的财产和荣誉都没有受到影响时，大多数人都过着满足的生活，他只需与少数人的野心作斗争，他可以通过多种方式轻松地遏制他们。

It makes him contemptible to be considered fickle, frivolous, effeminate, mean-spirited, irresolute, from all of which a prince should guard himself as from a rock; and he should endeavour to show in his actions greatness, courage, gravity, and fortitude; and in his private dealings with his subjects let him show that his judgments are irrevocable, and maintain himself in such reputation that no one can hope either to deceive him or to get round him.
如果人们认为他反复无常、轻浮、女性化、心胸狭窄、优柔寡断，那么他就会受到鄙视，而王子应该像防范岩石一样防范所有这些。他应该努力在自己的行动中表现出伟大、勇气、严肃和坚韧；在与臣民的私下交往中，让他表明他的判断是不可撤销的，并保持自己的声誉，使任何人都无法欺骗他或绕过他。

That prince is highly esteemed who conveys this impression of himself, and he who is highly esteemed is not easily conspired against; for, provided it is well known that he is an excellent man and revered by his people, he can only be attacked with difficulty. For this reason a prince ought to have two fears, one from within, on account of his subjects, the other from without, on account of external powers. From the latter he is defended by being well armed and having good allies, and if he is well armed he will have good friends, and affairs will always remain quiet within when they are quiet without, unless they should have been already disturbed by conspiracy; and even should affairs outside be disturbed, if he has carried out his preparations and has lived as I have said, as long as he does not despair, he will resist every attack, as I said Nabis the Spartan did.
表现出这种印象的君主是德高望重的人，而德高望重的人是不容易被谋害的。因为，只要人们知道他是一个优秀的人并受到人民的尊敬，那么他就很难受到攻击。因此，君主应该有两种恐惧，一种来自内部，出于臣民的恐惧，另一种来自外部，出于外部势力的恐惧。对于后者，他通过装备精良和拥有良好的盟友来防御，如果他装备精良，他就会有好朋友，当外部安静时，内部事务也将始终保持安静，除非它们已经被阴谋扰乱了。即使外面的事情受到干扰，如果他按照我所说的做好了准备并生活了，只要他不绝望，他就会抵抗每一次攻击，正如我所说的斯巴达纳比斯所做的那样。

But concerning his subjects, when affairs outside are disturbed he has only to fear that they will conspire secretly, from which a prince can easily secure himself by avoiding being hated and despised, and by keeping the people satisfied with him, which it is most necessary for him to accomplish, as I said above at length. And one of the most efficacious remedies that a prince can have against conspiracies is not to be hated and despised by the people, for he who conspires against a prince always expects to please them by his removal; but when the conspirator can only look forward to offending them, he will not have the courage to take such a course, for the difficulties that confront a conspirator are infinite. And as experience shows, many have been the conspiracies, but few have been successful; because he who conspires cannot act alone, nor can he take a companion except from those whom he believes to be malcontents, and as soon as you have opened your mind to a malcontent you have given him the material with which to content himself, for by denouncing you he can look for every advantage; so that, seeing the gain from this course to be assured, and seeing the other to be doubtful and full of dangers, he must be a very rare friend, or a thoroughly obstinate enemy of the prince, to keep faith with you.
而对于臣民来说，外事扰乱，只怕他们暗中密谋，君主就可以很容易地保全自己，避免被人憎恨和轻视，让百姓满意，这是最必要的。正如我上面详细所说的那样，让他完成。君主对抗阴谋的最有效的补救措施之一就是不被人民憎恨和蔑视，因为阴谋反对君主的人总是希望通过罢免来取悦他们；但当阴谋者只能期待得罪他们时，他就没有勇气采取这样的做法，因为阴谋者面临的困难是无限的。经验表明，阴谋很多，但成功的却很少。因为密谋者不能单独行动，除了他认为不满的人之外，他也不能找一个同伴，一旦你向不满者敞开心扉，你就给了他满足自己的材料，因为通过他可以利用一切机会来谴责你；因此，看到这一做法的好处是确定的，而看到另一做法是可疑的和充满危险的，他一定是王子的一个非常难得的朋友，或者是王子的彻底顽固的敌人，对你保持忠诚。

And, to reduce the matter into a small compass, I say that, on the side of the conspirator, there is nothing but fear, jealousy, prospect of punishment to terrify him; but on the side of the prince there is the majesty of the principality, the laws, the protection of friends and the state to defend him; so that, adding to all these things the popular goodwill, it is impossible that any one should be so rash as to conspire. For whereas in general the conspirator has to fear before the execution of his plot, in this case he has also to fear the sequel to the crime; because on account of it he has the people for an enemy, and thus cannot hope for any escape.
而且，为了将问题简化为一个小范围，我要说的是，在阴谋者方面，除了恐惧、嫉妒和惩罚的前景之外，没有什么可以吓倒他；但在王子这边，有公国的威严、法律、朋友的保护和国家的保护；因此，再加上民众的善意，任何人都不可能轻率地进行密谋。因为一般来说，同谋者在实施其阴谋之前必须感到恐惧，而在本案中，他也必须担心犯罪的后果。因为他因此而将人民视为敌人，因此不能指望有任何逃脱的可能。

Endless examples could be given on this subject, but I will be content with one, brought to pass within the memory of our fathers. Messer Annibale Bentivogli, who was prince in Bologna (grandfather of the present Annibale), having been murdered by the Canneschi, who had conspired against him, not one of his family survived but Messer Giovanni,[*] who was in childhood: immediately after his assassination the people rose and murdered all the Canneschi. This sprung from the popular goodwill which the house of Bentivogli enjoyed in those days in Bologna; which was so great that, although none remained there after the death of Annibale who was able to rule the state, the Bolognese, having information that there was one of the Bentivogli family in Florence, who up to that time had been considered the son of a blacksmith, sent to Florence for him and gave him the government of their city, and it was ruled by him until Messer Giovanni came in due course to the government.
关于这个主题可以举出无数的例子，但我会满足于一个在我们祖先的记忆中实现的例子。安尼巴莱·本蒂沃利先生（Messer Annibale Bentivogli）是博洛尼亚王子（现任安尼巴莱的祖父），被密谋反对他的坎内斯基家族谋杀，他的家人无一幸存，只有童年时期的乔瓦尼先生[*]：不久之后他的刺杀让人民奋起并谋杀了所有的坎内斯基人。这源于本蒂沃利家族当时在博洛尼亚所享有的民众善意。这是如此伟大，以至于尽管安尼巴莱死后，没有人能够统治国家，但博洛尼亚人得知佛罗伦萨有本蒂沃利家族的一位成员，当时他被认为是安尼巴莱的儿子。一名铁匠被派往佛罗伦萨接他，并把这座城市的政府交给了他，这座城市一直由他统治，直到乔瓦尼先生在适当的时候加入政府。

[*] Giovanni Bentivogli, born in Bologna 1438, died at Milan 1508. He ruled Bologna from 1462 to 1506. Machiavelli’s strong condemnation of conspiracies may get its edge from his own very recent experience (February 1513), when he had been arrested and tortured for his alleged complicity in the Boscoli conspiracy.
[*] 乔瓦尼·本蒂沃利 (Giovanni Bentivogli)，1438 年出生于博洛尼亚，1508 年逝世于米兰。他从 1462 年到 1506 年统治博洛尼亚。马基雅维利对阴谋的强烈谴责可能从他自己最近的经历（1513 年 2 月）中得到了体现，当时他被捕并被逮捕。因涉嫌参与博斯科利阴谋而受到酷刑。

For this reason I consider that a prince ought to reckon conspiracies of little account when his people hold him in esteem; but when it is hostile to him, and bears hatred towards him, he ought to fear everything and everybody. And well-ordered states and wise princes have taken every care not to drive the nobles to desperation, and to keep the people satisfied and contented, for this is one of the most important objects a prince can have.
因此，我认为，当君主受到人民的尊敬时，他应该不顾一切阴谋。但当它与他为敌、对他怀有仇恨时，他就应该害怕一切、每一个人。秩序良好的国家和明智的君主会竭尽全力不让贵族陷入绝望，而让人民满意和满足，因为这是一个君主所能拥有的最重要的目标之一。

Among the best ordered and governed kingdoms of our times is France, and in it are found many good institutions on which depend the liberty and security of the king; of these the first is the parliament and its authority, because he who founded the kingdom, knowing the ambition of the nobility and their boldness, considered that a bit to their mouths would be necessary to hold them in; and, on the other side, knowing the hatred of the people, founded in fear, against the nobles, he wished to protect them, yet he was not anxious for this to be the particular care of the king; therefore, to take away the reproach which he would be liable to from the nobles for favouring the people, and from the people for favouring the nobles, he set up an arbiter, who should be one who could beat down the great and favour the lesser without reproach to the king. Neither could you have a better or a more prudent arrangement, or a greater source of security to the king and kingdom. From this one can draw another important conclusion, that princes ought to leave affairs of reproach to the management of others, and keep those of grace in their own hands. And further, I consider that a prince ought to cherish the nobles, but not so as to make himself hated by the people.
法国是我们这个时代秩序和治理最好的王国之一，它有许多良好的制度，国王的自由和安全依赖于此。其中第一个是议会及其权威，因为王国的缔造者知道贵族的野心和胆量，认为有必要对他们说一些话来约束他们；另一方面，他知道人民出于恐惧而对贵族怀有仇恨，他希望保护他们，但他并不担心这会成为国王的特别关注；因此，为了消除贵族偏袒百姓、百姓偏袒贵族而招致的耻辱，他设立了一位仲裁者，这个仲裁者应该是能够贬低大人、偏袒小人的人。不责怪国王。你也不能有更好或更审慎的安排，或者为国王和王国提供更大的安全来源。由此可以得出另一个重要的结论，即君王应该把辱骂的事情交给别人处理，把恩惠的事情交给自己处理。另外，我认为君主应该爱护贵族，但不能让自己被百姓所憎恨。

It may appear, perhaps, to some who have examined the lives and deaths of the Roman emperors that many of them would be an example contrary to my opinion, seeing that some of them lived nobly and showed great qualities of soul, nevertheless they have lost their empire or have been killed by subjects who have conspired against them. Wishing, therefore, to answer these objections, I will recall the characters of some of the emperors, and will show that the causes of their ruin were not different to those alleged by me; at the same time I will only submit for consideration those things that are noteworthy to him who studies the affairs of those times.
也许，对于那些研究过罗马皇帝的生与死的人来说，他们中的许多人可能是一个与我的观点相反的例子，因为他们中的一些人生活高贵，表现出伟大的灵魂品质，然而他们却失去了他们的帝国或被密谋反对他们的臣民杀害。因此，为了回答这些反对意见，我将回顾一些皇帝的性格，并表明他们灭亡的原因与我所说的没有什么不同。同时，我只会将那些对研究当时事务的人来说值得注意的事情提交考虑。

It seems to me sufficient to take all those emperors who succeeded to the empire from Marcus the philosopher down to Maximinus; they were Marcus and his son Commodus, Pertinax, Julian, Severus and his son Antoninus Caracalla, Macrinus, Heliogabalus, Alexander, and Maximinus.
在我看来，从哲学家马库斯到马克西米努斯，所有继承帝国的皇帝似乎就足够了。他们是马库斯和他的儿子康茂德、佩蒂纳克斯、朱利安、塞维鲁和他的儿子安东尼努斯·卡拉卡拉、马克里努斯、赫利奥加巴卢斯、亚历山大和马克西米努斯。

There is first to note that, whereas in other principalities the ambition of the nobles and the insolence of the people only have to be contended with, the Roman emperors had a third difficulty in having to put up with the cruelty and avarice of their soldiers, a matter so beset with difficulties that it was the ruin of many; for it was a hard thing to give satisfaction both to soldiers and people; because the people loved peace, and for this reason they loved the unaspiring prince, whilst the soldiers loved the warlike prince who was bold, cruel, and rapacious, which qualities they were quite willing he should exercise upon the people, so that they could get double pay and give vent to their own greed and cruelty. Hence it arose that those emperors were always overthrown who, either by birth or training, had no great authority, and most of them, especially those who came new to the principality, recognizing the difficulty of these two opposing humours, were inclined to give satisfaction to the soldiers, caring little about injuring the people. Which course was necessary, because, as princes cannot help being hated by someone, they ought, in the first place, to avoid being hated by every one, and when they cannot compass this, they ought to endeavour with the utmost diligence to avoid the hatred of the most powerful. Therefore, those emperors who through inexperience had need of special favour adhered more readily to the soldiers than to the people; a course which turned out advantageous to them or not, accordingly as the prince knew how to maintain authority over them.
首先要指出的是，在其他公国，只需应对贵族的野心和人民的傲慢，而罗马皇帝则面临第三个困难，即不得不忍受士兵的残忍和贪婪。这件事充满了困难，以至于毁掉了许多人。因为要让士兵和人民都满意是一件很难的事。因为人民爱好和平，因此他们喜爱这位没有抱负的君主，而士兵们则喜爱这位好战的君主，他勇敢、残忍、贪婪，他们非常愿意将他的这些品质运用在人民身上，以便他们能够得到双倍报酬，发泄自己的贪婪和残忍。因此，那些无论是出身还是训练都没有什么大权威的皇帝总是被推翻，而他们中的大多数人，特别是那些新来公国的人，认识到这两种相反的情绪的困难，倾向于给予满足对士兵来说，很少关心伤害人民。这是必要的，因为君主难免会被人憎恨，所以他们首先应该避免被所有人憎恨，而当他们无法做到这一点时，他们应该尽最大努力避免被所有人憎恨。对最强大的人的仇恨。因此，那些由于缺乏经验而需要特殊恩惠的皇帝更愿意依附于士兵而不是人民；这一做法对他们是否有利，取决于王子是否知道如何维持对他们的权威。

From these causes it arose that Marcus, Pertinax, and Alexander, being all men of modest life, lovers of justice, enemies to cruelty, humane, and benignant, came to a sad end except Marcus; he alone lived and died honoured, because he had succeeded to the throne by hereditary title, and owed nothing either to the soldiers or the people; and afterwards, being possessed of many virtues which made him respected, he always kept both orders in their places whilst he lived, and was neither hated nor despised.
由于这些原因，马库斯、佩蒂纳克斯和亚历山大都是生活朴素、热爱正义、反对残酷、仁慈和仁慈的人，但除了马库斯之外，他们都以悲惨的结局而告终。只有他一个人活得很光荣，死得很光荣，因为他是通过世袭继承王位的，对士兵和人民没有任何亏欠。后来，由于他拥有许多令人尊敬的美德，他在世时始终保持着这两个命令的地位，既不被憎恨，也不被轻视。

But Pertinax was created emperor against the wishes of the soldiers, who, being accustomed to live licentiously under Commodus, could not endure the honest life to which Pertinax wished to reduce them; thus, having given cause for hatred, to which hatred there was added contempt for his old age, he was overthrown at the very beginning of his administration. And here it should be noted that hatred is acquired as much by good works as by bad ones, therefore, as I said before, a prince wishing to keep his state is very often forced to do evil; for when that body is corrupt whom you think you have need of to maintain yourself—it may be either the people or the soldiers or the nobles—you have to submit to its humours and to gratify them, and then good works will do you harm.
但佩蒂纳克斯被立为皇帝，却违背了士兵们的意愿，因为士兵们习惯了康茂德手下的放荡生活，无法忍受佩蒂纳克斯希望让他们过上诚实的生活。因此，由于引起了仇恨，其中仇恨加上了对他年老的蔑视，他在执政之初就被推翻了。在此要注意的是，善行和恶行都会产生仇恨，因此，正如我之前所说，一个想要保住自己国家的君主往往被迫去做恶；因为当你认为你需要维持自己的那个身体腐败时——可能是人民、士兵或贵族——你必须屈服于它的情绪并满足它们，然后善行就会对你有害。

But let us come to Alexander, who was a man of such great goodness, that among the other praises which are accorded him is this, that in the fourteen years he held the empire no one was ever put to death by him unjudged; nevertheless, being considered effeminate and a man who allowed himself to be governed by his mother, he became despised, the army conspired against him, and murdered him.
但让我们来看看亚历山大，他是一个非常善良的人，在他所获得的其他赞扬中，有这样一个：在他统治帝国的十四年里，没有一个人被他不加审判地处死；然而，由于他被认为是女性化的人，而且是一个让自己受母亲统治的人，他受到了蔑视，军队密谋反对他，并谋杀了他。

Turning now to the opposite characters of Commodus, Severus, Antoninus Caracalla, and Maximinus, you will find them all cruel and rapacious— men who, to satisfy their soldiers, did not hesitate to commit every kind of iniquity against the people; and all, except Severus, came to a bad end; but in Severus there was so much valour that, keeping the soldiers friendly, although the people were oppressed by him, he reigned successfully; for his valour made him so much admired in the sight of the soldiers and people that the latter were kept in a way astonished and awed and the former respectful and satisfied. And because the actions of this man, as a new prince, were great, I wish to show briefly that he knew well how to counterfeit the fox and the lion, which natures, as I said above, it is necessary for a prince to imitate.
现在转向康茂德、塞维鲁、安东尼努斯·卡拉卡拉和马克西米努斯这些相反的人物，你会发现他们都是残酷而贪婪的——为了满足士兵的需要，他们毫不犹豫地对人民犯下各种罪恶；除了西弗勒斯之外，所有人都没有好下场。但塞维鲁却非常英勇，尽管人民受到他的压迫，但他仍然与士兵保持友好，成功地统治了国家。他的英勇使士兵和人民十分钦佩，后者感到惊讶和敬畏，而前者则尊敬和满意。因为这个人作为新王子的行为是伟大的，我想简单地表明他很清楚如何伪造狐狸和狮子，正如我上面所说，王子有必要模仿它们的性质。

Knowing the sloth of the Emperor Julian, he persuaded the army in Sclavonia, of which he was captain, that it would be right to go to Rome and avenge the death of Pertinax, who had been killed by the praetorian soldiers; and under this pretext, without appearing to aspire to the throne, he moved the army on Rome, and reached Italy before it was known that he had started. On his arrival at Rome, the Senate, through fear, elected him emperor and killed Julian. After this there remained for Severus, who wished to make himself master of the whole empire, two difficulties; one in Asia, where Niger, head of the Asiatic army, had caused himself to be proclaimed emperor; the other in the west where Albinus was, who also aspired to the throne. And as he considered it dangerous to declare himself hostile to both, he decided to attack Niger and to deceive Albinus. To the latter he wrote that, being elected emperor by the Senate, he was willing to share that dignity with him and sent him the title of Caesar; and, moreover, that the Senate had made Albinus his colleague; which things were accepted by Albinus as true. But after Severus had conquered and killed Niger, and settled oriental affairs, he returned to Rome and complained to the Senate that Albinus, little recognizing the benefits that he had received from him, had by treachery sought to murder him, and for this ingratitude he was compelled to punish him. Afterwards he sought him out in France, and took from him his government and life. He who will, therefore, carefully examine the actions of this man will find him a most valiant lion and a most cunning fox; he will find him feared and respected by every one, and not hated by the army; and it need not be wondered at that he, a new man, was able to hold the empire so well, because his supreme renown always protected him from that hatred which the people might have conceived against him for his violence.
他知道朱利安皇帝的懒惰，于是说服他担任队长的斯拉沃尼亚军队，前往罗马为被禁卫军士兵杀害的佩蒂纳克斯报仇是正确的。以此为借口，他在没有表现出渴望王位的情况下，向罗马调动军队，并在人们知道他出发之前到达了意大利。当他抵达罗马时，元老院出于恐惧，选举他为皇帝并杀死了朱利安。此后，对于想要成为整个帝国主人的西弗勒斯来说，还有两个困难：一个是在亚洲，亚洲军队的统帅尼日尔在那里宣布自己为皇帝；另一个是在亚洲。另一个在西方，阿尔比努斯所在，他也渴望王位。由于他认为宣布自己对两者都怀有敌意是危险的，因此他决定攻击尼日尔并欺骗阿尔比努斯。他在给后者的信中写道，既然被元老院选举为皇帝，他愿意与他分享这种尊严，并授予他凯撒的称号。此外，元老院任命阿尔比努斯为他的同事。阿尔比努斯认为这些事情是真实的。但在塞维鲁征服并杀死了尼日尔，解决了东方事务之后，他回到罗马，向元老院抱怨说，阿尔比努斯几乎不认识到他从他那里得到的好处，却想通过背叛来谋杀他，而他的忘恩负义是他的忘恩负义。被迫惩罚他。后来他到法国找到了他，并夺走了他的政府和生命。 因此，如果仔细观察这个人的行为，就会发现他是最勇敢的狮子，也是最狡猾的狐狸。他会发现他受到所有人的敬畏和尊重，而不是被军队所憎恨。毫无疑问，他作为一个新人，能够如此稳固地掌控帝国，因为他的至高无上的声誉总是保护他免受人民可能因他的暴力而产生的仇恨。

But his son Antoninus was a most eminent man, and had very excellent qualities, which made him admirable in the sight of the people and acceptable to the soldiers, for he was a warlike man, most enduring of fatigue, a despiser of all delicate food and other luxuries, which caused him to be beloved by the armies. Nevertheless, his ferocity and cruelties were so great and so unheard of that, after endless single murders, he killed a large number of the people of Rome and all those of Alexandria. He became hated by the whole world, and also feared by those he had around him, to such an extent that he was murdered in the midst of his army by a centurion. And here it must be noted that suchlike deaths, which are deliberately inflicted with a resolved and desperate courage, cannot be avoided by princes, because any one who does not fear to die can inflict them; but a prince may fear them the less because they are very rare; he has only to be careful not to do any grave injury to those whom he employs or has around him in the service of the state. Antoninus had not taken this care, but had contumeliously killed a brother of that centurion, whom also he daily threatened, yet retained in his bodyguard; which, as it turned out, was a rash thing to do, and proved the emperor’s ruin.
但他的儿子安东尼努斯是一位最杰出的人，有着非常优秀的品质，这使他在人民的眼中令人钦佩，也为士兵所接受，因为他是一个好战的人，最能忍受疲劳，鄙视一切精致的食物和其他奢侈品，这使他受到军队的喜爱。然而，他的凶残和残忍却如此之大，如此前所未闻，以至于在无数次的谋杀之后，他杀死了大量的罗马人民和所有亚历山大里亚的人民。他被全世界所憎恨，也被他周围的人所畏惧，以至于他在军队中被一个百夫长谋杀了。在此必须指出的是，这样的死亡是君主们无法避免的，因为任何一个不畏惧死亡的人都可以造成这样的死亡，而这种死亡是由决心和绝望的勇气故意造成的。但王子可能不会那么害怕它们，因为它们非常稀有。他只需小心，不要对他雇用的或周围为国家服务的人造成任何严重伤害。安东尼努斯并没有采取这种措施，而是无礼地杀死了百夫长的一个兄弟，他每天都威胁百夫长，但仍将他保留在他的贴身卫队中。事实证明，这是一件鲁莽的事情，也导致了皇帝的灭亡。

But let us come to Commodus, to whom it should have been very easy to hold the empire, for, being the son of Marcus, he had inherited it, and he had only to follow in the footsteps of his father to please his people and soldiers; but, being by nature cruel and brutal, he gave himself up to amusing the soldiers and corrupting them, so that he might indulge his rapacity upon the people; on the other hand, not maintaining his dignity, often descending to the theatre to compete with gladiators, and doing other vile things, little worthy of the imperial majesty, he fell into contempt with the soldiers, and being hated by one party and despised by the other, he was conspired against and was killed.
但让我们来看看康茂德，对他来说，保持帝国本应该是很容易的，因为作为马库斯的儿子，他继承了帝国，他只需追随他父亲的脚步，就能取悦他的人民，士兵;但是，他生性残忍，一味地取笑士兵，腐蚀他们，以便向人民放纵自己的贪婪。另一方面，他不维护自己的尊严，经常下戏场与角斗士较量，并做出其他卑鄙的事情，一点也不配得上皇帝的威严，为士兵们所蔑视，为一方所憎恶，为一方所鄙视。另一个，他被密谋而被杀。

It remains to discuss the character of Maximinus. He was a very warlike man, and the armies, being disgusted with the effeminacy of Alexander, of whom I have already spoken, killed him and elected Maximinus to the throne. This he did not possess for long, for two things made him hated and despised; the one, his having kept sheep in Thrace, which brought him into contempt (it being well known to all, and considered a great indignity by every one), and the other, his having at the accession to his dominions deferred going to Rome and taking possession of the imperial seat; he had also gained a reputation for the utmost ferocity by having, through his prefects in Rome and elsewhere in the empire, practised many cruelties, so that the whole world was moved to anger at the meanness of his birth and to fear at his barbarity. First Africa rebelled, then the Senate with all the people of Rome, and all Italy conspired against him, to which may be added his own army; this latter, besieging Aquileia and meeting with difficulties in taking it, were disgusted with his cruelties, and fearing him less when they found so many against him, murdered him.
还有待讨论马克西米努斯的性格。他是一个非常好战的人，军队对我已经谈到的亚历山大的阴柔行为感到厌恶，杀死了他并选举马克西米努斯为王。他并没有长久拥有这一点，因为有两件事让他憎恨和鄙视：其一，他在色雷斯养羊，这使他受到蔑视（这是众所周知的，每个人都认为这是一种极大的侮辱），其二，他在加入他的领土时推迟了前往罗马和占据皇位；他还通过他在罗马和帝国其他地方的长官实施了许多残酷行为，从而赢得了极其残暴的声誉，以至于全世界都对他的卑鄙出身感到愤怒，对他的野蛮行为感到恐惧。首先是非洲叛乱，然后是元老院和全体罗马人民，以及整个意大利密谋反对他，他自己的军队也可能加入其中。后者包围了阿奎莱亚，在攻克过程中遇到了困难，对他的残忍行为感到厌恶，当他们发现有这么多人反对他时，他就不再害怕他了，并谋杀了他。

I do not wish to discuss Heliogabalus, Macrinus, or Julian, who, being thoroughly contemptible, were quickly wiped out; but I will bring this discourse to a conclusion by saying that princes in our times have this difficulty of giving inordinate satisfaction to their soldiers in a far less degree, because, notwithstanding one has to give them some indulgence, that is soon done; none of these princes have armies that are veterans in the governance and administration of provinces, as were the armies of the Roman Empire; and whereas it was then more necessary to give satisfaction to the soldiers than to the people, it is now more necessary to all princes, except the Turk and the Soldan, to satisfy the people rather the soldiers, because the people are the more powerful.
我不想讨论赫利奥加巴卢斯、马克里努斯或朱利安，他们都非常可鄙，很快就被消灭了。但我要在结束这篇演讲时说，我们这个时代的君主很难给他们的士兵带来过度的满足，但程度要小得多，因为，尽管必须给予他们一些宽容，但很快就会完成；因为，尽管人们必须给予他们一些宽容，但很快就会完成；因此，我们可以说，我们这个时代的君主很难给他们的士兵带来过度的满足，但程度却要小得多。这些王子中没有一个拥有像罗马帝国的军队那样在行省治理和管理方面经验丰富的军队。那时，让士兵满意比让人民满意更重要，而现在，除了土耳其人和苏丹人之外，所有君主都更需要让人民满意，而不是让士兵满意，因为人民更强大。

From the above I have excepted the Turk, who always keeps round him twelve thousand infantry and fifteen thousand cavalry on which depend the security and strength of the kingdom, and it is necessary that, putting aside every consideration for the people, he should keep them his friends. The kingdom of the Soldan is similar; being entirely in the hands of soldiers, it follows again that, without regard to the people, he must keep them his friends. But you must note that the state of the Soldan is unlike all other principalities, for the reason that it is like the Christian pontificate, which cannot be called either an hereditary or a newly formed principality; because the sons of the old prince are not the heirs, but he who is elected to that position by those who have authority, and the sons remain only noblemen. And this being an ancient custom, it cannot be called a new principality, because there are none of those difficulties in it that are met with in new ones; for although the prince is new, the constitution of the state is old, and it is framed so as to receive him as if he were its hereditary lord.
从上面我已经排除了土耳其人，他周围总是有一万二千名步兵和一万五千名骑兵，王国的安全和力量依赖于它们，因此，他必须抛开对人民的一切考虑，保留他们他的朋友们。苏丹王国也类似；由于完全掌握在士兵手中，因此，他必须不顾人民，而让他们成为他的朋友。但您必须注意，苏丹国与所有其他公国不同，因为它就像基督教教皇国一样，既不能称为世袭公国，也不能称为新成立的公国；因为老王子的儿子们并不是继承人，而是那些有权有势的人选出的继承人，而儿子们仍然只是贵族。这是一个古老的习俗，它不能被称为新的公国，因为它不存在新公国所遇到的那些困难。因为虽然君主是新任的，但国家的宪法却是旧的，其制定的目的是为了接待他，就好像他是国家的世袭领主一样。

But returning to the subject of our discourse, I say that whoever will consider it will acknowledge that either hatred or contempt has been fatal to the above-named emperors, and it will be recognized also how it happened that, a number of them acting in one way and a number in another, only one in each way came to a happy end and the rest to unhappy ones. Because it would have been useless and dangerous for Pertinax and Alexander, being new princes, to imitate Marcus, who was heir to the principality; and likewise it would have been utterly destructive to Caracalla, Commodus, and Maximinus to have imitated Severus, they not having sufficient valour to enable them to tread in his footsteps. Therefore a prince, new to the principality, cannot imitate the actions of Marcus, nor, again, is it necessary to follow those of Severus, but he ought to take from Severus those parts which are necessary to found his state, and from Marcus those which are proper and glorious to keep a state that may already be stable and firm.
但回到我们讨论的主题，我想说，无论谁考虑这个问题，都会承认，仇恨或蔑视对上述皇帝来说是致命的，而且也会认识到，他们中的一些人是如何行事的一种方式，另一种方式，只有一个人获得了幸福的结局，其余的人都不幸了。因为佩蒂纳克斯和亚历山大作为新王子，效仿公国继承人马库斯是没有用的，而且是危险的。同样，模仿塞维鲁对卡拉卡拉、康茂德和马克西米努斯来说也是完全毁灭性的，因为他们没有足够的勇气去追随他的脚步。因此，新加入公国的王子不能模仿马库斯的行为，也没有必要遵循西维鲁的行为，但他应该从西维鲁那里获取建立他的国家所必需的部分，并从马库斯那里获取那些必要的部分。对于保持一个可能已经稳定和牢固的国家来说，这是适当和光荣的。

CHAPTER XX. ARE FORTRESSES, AND MANY OTHER THINGS TO WHICH PRINCES OFTEN RESORT, ADVANTAGEOUS OR HURTFUL?
第二十章。要塞以及王子经常度假的许多其他事物是有利还是有害？

1. Some princes, so as to hold securely the state, have disarmed their subjects; others have kept their subject towns distracted by factions; others have fostered enmities against themselves; others have laid themselves out to gain over those whom they distrusted in the beginning of their governments; some have built fortresses; some have overthrown and destroyed them. And although one cannot give a final judgment on all of these things unless one possesses the particulars of those states in which a decision has to be made, nevertheless I will speak as comprehensively as the matter of itself will admit.
1.有些君主为了稳固国家，解除了臣民的武装；其他人则让他们的附属城镇受到派系的干扰；别人对自己怀有敌意；其他人则竭尽全力去赢得那些他们在政府成立之初不信任的人。有的建造了堡垒；有些人推翻并摧毁了它们。尽管人们无法对所有这些事情做出最终判断，除非人们掌握了必须做出决定的那些国家的具体情况，但我将尽可能全面地谈论事情本身所承认的情况。

2. There never was a new prince who has disarmed his subjects; rather when he has found them disarmed he has always armed them, because, by arming them, those arms become yours, those men who were distrusted become faithful, and those who were faithful are kept so, and your subjects become your adherents. And whereas all subjects cannot be armed, yet when those whom you do arm are benefited, the others can be handled more freely, and this difference in their treatment, which they quite understand, makes the former your dependents, and the latter, considering it to be necessary that those who have the most danger and service should have the most reward, excuse you. But when you disarm them, you at once offend them by showing that you distrust them, either for cowardice or for want of loyalty, and either of these opinions breeds hatred against you. And because you cannot remain unarmed, it follows that you turn to mercenaries, which are of the character already shown; even if they should be good they would not be sufficient to defend you against powerful enemies and distrusted subjects. Therefore, as I have said, a new prince in a new principality has always distributed arms. Histories are full of examples. But when a prince acquires a new state, which he adds as a province to his old one, then it is necessary to disarm the men of that state, except those who have been his adherents in acquiring it; and these again, with time and opportunity, should be rendered soft and effeminate; and matters should be managed in such a way that all the armed men in the state shall be your own soldiers who in your old state were living near you.
2. 从来没有一位新君主解除了臣民的武装；相反，当他发现他们解除武装时，他总是武装他们，因为通过武装他们，那些武器就变成了你的，那些不被信任的人变得忠诚，而那些忠诚的人则保持如此，而你的臣民就成为你的追随者。尽管不可能所有臣民都武装起来，但当你武装的人受益时，其他人就可以更自由地处理，他们很理解这种待遇上的差异，使前者成为你的附属者，而后者则考虑到这一点那些承担最大危险和服务的人应该得到最多的奖励，请原谅。但是，当你解除他们的武装时，你就会立即冒犯他们，因为你表现出你不信任他们，要么是因为怯懦，要么是因为缺乏忠诚，而这些观点中的任何一种都会滋生对你的仇恨。因为你不可能保持手无寸铁的状态，所以你就会求助于雇佣兵，他们的性格已经表明了。即使它们是好的，它们也不足以保护你免受强大的敌人和不信任的臣民的侵害。因此，正如我所说，新公国的新王子总是分发武器。历史充满了这样的例子。但是，当一位君主获得一个新的国家，并将其作为一个省份添加到他的旧国家时，那么就有必要解除该国家的人民的武装，除了那些在获得该国家时一直是他的追随者的人；随着时间和机会的推移，这些都会再次变得柔和和女性化。事情的处理方式应该是，该州的所有武装人员都应是您自己的士兵，他们在您的旧州居住在您附近。

3. Our forefathers, and those who were reckoned wise, were accustomed to say that it was necessary to hold Pistoia by factions and Pisa by fortresses; and with this idea they fostered quarrels in some of their tributary towns so as to keep possession of them the more easily. This may have been well enough in those times when Italy was in a way balanced, but I do not believe that it can be accepted as a precept for to-day, because I do not believe that factions can ever be of use; rather it is certain that when the enemy comes upon you in divided cities you are quickly lost, because the weakest party will always assist the outside forces and the other will not be able to resist. The Venetians, moved, as I believe, by the above reasons, fostered the Guelph and Ghibelline factions in their tributary cities; and although they never allowed them to come to bloodshed, yet they nursed these disputes amongst them, so that the citizens, distracted by their differences, should not unite against them. Which, as we saw, did not afterwards turn out as expected, because, after the rout at Vaila, one party at once took courage and seized the state. Such methods argue, therefore, weakness in the prince, because these factions will never be permitted in a vigorous principality; such methods for enabling one the more easily to manage subjects are only useful in times of peace, but if war comes this policy proves fallacious.
3. 我们的祖先和那些被认为是智者的人习惯说，必须通过派系来守住皮斯托亚，通过堡垒来守住比萨。出于这种想法，他们在一些附属城镇中煽动争吵，以便更容易地占有这些城镇。在意大利处于平衡状态的那个时代，这可能已经足够了，但我不认为它可以被接受为今天的一条戒律，因为我不相信派系永远有用；因为我不相信派别永远不会有用。可以肯定的是，当敌人在分裂的城市中袭击你时，你很快就会迷失，因为最弱的一方总是会援助外军，而另一方将无法抵抗。我相信，受上述原因的推动，威尼斯人在其附属城市中扶植了圭尔夫派和吉伯林派。尽管他们从不允许他们发生流血事件，但他们却在他们之间煽动这些争端，以便让因分歧而心烦意乱的公民不会联合起来反对他们。正如我们所看到的，后来的结果并没有达到预期，因为在瓦伊拉溃败之后，一方立即鼓起勇气夺取了国家。因此，这种方法表明君主的软弱，因为在一个充满活力的公国中永远不会允许这些派系存在。这种使人更容易管理主题的方法只有在和平时期才有用，但如果战争爆发，这一政策就会被证明是错误的。

4. Without doubt princes become great when they overcome the difficulties and obstacles by which they are confronted, and therefore fortune, especially when she desires to make a new prince great, who has a greater necessity to earn renown than an hereditary one, causes enemies to arise and form designs against him, in order that he may have the opportunity of overcoming them, and by them to mount higher, as by a ladder which his enemies have raised. For this reason many consider that a wise prince, when he has the opportunity, ought with craft to foster some animosity against himself, so that, having crushed it, his renown may rise higher.
4.毫无疑问，当王子们克服了所面临的困难和障碍时，他们就会变得伟大，因此，财富，特别是当她希望让一位新王子变得伟大时，他比世袭王子更需要赢得声誉，因此会树敌起来并制定针对他的计划，以便他有机会克服它们，并通过它们登上更高的位置，就像通过敌人搭建的梯子一样。因此，许多人认为，一个明智的君主，当他有机会时，应该用技巧来培养一些对自己的仇恨，这样，粉碎了它，他的名声就可以提高。

5. Princes, especially new ones, have found more fidelity and assistance in those men who in the beginning of their rule were distrusted than among those who in the beginning were trusted. Pandolfo Petrucci, Prince of Siena, ruled his state more by those who had been distrusted than by others. But on this question one cannot speak generally, for it varies so much with the individual; I will only say this, that those men who at the commencement of a princedom have been hostile, if they are of a description to need assistance to support themselves, can always be gained over with the greatest ease, and they will be tightly held to serve the prince with fidelity, inasmuch as they know it to be very necessary for them to cancel by deeds the bad impression which he had formed of them; and thus the prince always extracts more profit from them than from those who, serving him in too much security, may neglect his affairs. And since the matter demands it, I must not fail to warn a prince, who by means of secret favours has acquired a new state, that he must well consider the reasons which induced those to favour him who did so; and if it be not a natural affection towards him, but only discontent with their government, then he will only keep them friendly with great trouble and difficulty, for it will be impossible to satisfy them. And weighing well the reasons for this in those examples which can be taken from ancient and modern affairs, we shall find that it is easier for the prince to make friends of those men who were contented under the former government, and are therefore his enemies, than of those who, being discontented with it, were favourable to him and encouraged him to seize it.
5. 君主们，尤其是新君主，发现那些在统治之初不受信任的人比那些在统治之初受到信任的人更加忠诚和帮助。锡耶纳亲王潘道夫·彼得鲁奇 (Pandolfo Petrucci) 更多地由那些不被信任的人统治他的国家，而不是其他人。但这个问题不能一概而论，因人而异。我只想说，那些在君主统治之初就充满敌意的人，如果他们需要援助来维持自己的生活，总是可以很容易地征服他们，他们将被紧紧抓住忠诚地侍奉君主，因为他们知道有必要通过行动消除君主给他们留下的坏印象；因此，君主从他们身上得到的利益总是比从那些为他服务太安全而忽视他的事务的人身上得到的利益要多。既然事情需要这样做，我就不能不警告一位通过秘密恩惠获得新国家的君主，他必须充分考虑促使人们支持他的原因；如果这不是对他的一种自然的感情，而只是对他们的政府的不满，那么他只会费很大的麻烦和困难来保持他们的友好，因为这是不可能满足他们的。仔细衡量古代和现代事务中的例子，我们会发现，王子更容易与那些满足于前政府统治的人交朋友，因此成为他的敌人，那些对它不满意，却对他有利并鼓励他夺取它的人。

6. It has been a custom with princes, in order to hold their states more securely, to build fortresses that may serve as a bridle and bit to those who might design to work against them, and as a place of refuge from a first attack. I praise this system because it has been made use of formerly. Notwithstanding that, Messer Nicolo Vitelli in our times has been seen to demolish two fortresses in Citta di Castello so that he might keep that state; Guido Ubaldo, Duke of Urbino, on returning to his dominion, whence he had been driven by Cesare Borgia, razed to the foundations all the fortresses in that province, and considered that without them it would be more difficult to lose it; the Bentivogli returning to Bologna came to a similar decision. Fortresses, therefore, are useful or not according to circumstances; if they do you good in one way they injure you in another. And this question can be reasoned thus: the prince who has more to fear from the people than from foreigners ought to build fortresses, but he who has more to fear from foreigners than from the people ought to leave them alone. The castle of Milan, built by Francesco Sforza, has made, and will make, more trouble for the house of Sforza than any other disorder in the state. For this reason the best possible fortress is—not to be hated by the people, because, although you may hold the fortresses, yet they will not save you if the people hate you, for there will never be wanting foreigners to assist a people who have taken arms against you. It has not been seen in our times that such fortresses have been of use to any prince, unless to the Countess of Forli,[*] when the Count Girolamo, her consort, was killed; for by that means she was able to withstand the popular attack and wait for assistance from Milan, and thus recover her state; and the posture of affairs was such at that time that the foreigners could not assist the people. But fortresses were of little value to her afterwards when Cesare Borgia attacked her, and when the people, her enemy, were allied with foreigners. Therefore, it would have been safer for her, both then and before, not to have been hated by the people than to have had the fortresses. All these things considered then, I shall praise him who builds fortresses as well as him who does not, and I shall blame whoever, trusting in them, cares little about being hated by the people.
6. 君主们有一个习惯，为了更安全地保卫自己的国家，建造堡垒，可以作为对那些可能图谋反对他们的人的束缚，也可以作为躲避第一次攻击的避难所。我赞扬这个系统，因为它以前已经被使用过。尽管如此，我们这个时代的尼科洛·维泰利先生还是拆除了卡斯泰洛城的两座堡垒，以保持这种状态；乌尔比诺公爵吉多·乌巴尔多在返回被切萨雷·博吉亚驱逐的统治权后，将该省的所有堡垒夷为平地，并认为如果没有它们，失去它会更困难；返回博洛尼亚的本蒂沃利也做出了类似的决定。因此，要塞有用或没用，要视情况而定。如果他们以某种方式对你有利，就会以另一种方式伤害你。这个问题可以这样推理：君主如果害怕人民多于害怕外国人，就应该建造堡垒；而害怕外国人多于害怕人民的人就应该不去干涉它们。弗朗西斯科·斯福尔扎 (Francesco Sforza) 建造的米兰城堡已经并将给斯福尔扎家族带来比该州任何其他混乱更多的麻烦。因此，最好的堡垒就是不被人民憎恨，因为虽然你可以守住堡垒，但如果人民憎恨你，它们就不会拯救你，因为永远不会想要外国人来帮助一个不被人民憎恨的人。已经拿起武器反对你。 在我们这个时代，这样的堡垒还没有对任何王子有用过，除非弗利伯爵夫人，[*]当她的配偶吉罗拉莫伯爵被杀时；因为只有这样，她才能顶住民众的攻击，等待米兰的援助，从而恢复状态。当时的形势是外国人不能帮助人民。但后来，当切萨雷·博吉亚攻击她，当她的敌人人民与外国人结盟时，堡垒对她来说就没有什么价值了。因此，无论是在当时还是在以前，对她来说，不被人民憎恨比拥有堡垒更安全。考虑到所有这些因素，我将赞扬建造堡垒的人和不建造堡垒的人，而我将谴责那些信任堡垒而不在乎被人民仇恨的人。

[*] Catherine Sforza, a daughter of Galeazzo Sforza and Lucrezia Landriani, born 1463, died 1509. It was to the Countess of Forli that Machiavelli was sent as envy on 1499. A letter from Fortunati to the countess announces the appointment: ‘I have been with the signori,’ wrote Fortunati, ‘to learn whom they would send and when. They tell me that Nicolo Machiavelli, a learned young Florentine noble, secretary to my Lords of the Ten, is to leave with me at once.’ Cf. ‘Catherine Sforza,’ by Count Pasolini, translated by P. Sylvester, 1898.
[*] 凯瑟琳·斯福尔扎 (Catherine Sforza)，加莱亚佐·斯福尔扎 (Galeazzo Sforza) 和卢克雷齐亚·兰德里亚尼 (Lucrezia Landriani) 的女儿，生于 1463 年，卒于 1509 年。1499 年，马基雅维利因嫉妒而被派往弗利伯爵夫人。福尔图纳蒂写给伯爵夫人的一封信宣布了这一任命：“我福尔图纳蒂写道，“我们一直和贵族们在一起，了解他们将派遣谁以及何时派遣。”他们告诉我，尼科洛·马基雅维利（Nicolo Machiavelli），一位博学的年轻佛罗伦萨贵族，我的十人勋爵的秘书，将立即与我一起离开。 《凯瑟琳·斯福尔扎》，帕索里尼伯爵著，P.西尔维斯特翻译，1898 年。

CHAPTER XXI. HOW A PRINCE SHOULD CONDUCT HIMSELF SO AS TO GAIN RENOWN
第二十一章。王子应该如何做才能赢得声誉

Nothing makes a prince so much esteemed as great enterprises and setting a fine example. We have in our time Ferdinand of Aragon, the present King of Spain. He can almost be called a new prince, because he has risen, by fame and glory, from being an insignificant king to be the foremost king in Christendom; and if you will consider his deeds you will find them all great and some of them extraordinary. In the beginning of his reign he attacked Granada, and this enterprise was the foundation of his dominions. He did this quietly at first and without any fear of hindrance, for he held the minds of the barons of Castile occupied in thinking of the war and not anticipating any innovations; thus they did not perceive that by these means he was acquiring power and authority over them. He was able with the money of the Church and of the people to sustain his armies, and by that long war to lay the foundation for the military skill which has since distinguished him. Further, always using religion as a plea, so as to undertake greater schemes, he devoted himself with pious cruelty to driving out and clearing his kingdom of the Moors; nor could there be a more admirable example, nor one more rare. Under this same cloak he assailed Africa, he came down on Italy, he has finally attacked France; and thus his achievements and designs have always been great, and have kept the minds of his people in suspense and admiration and occupied with the issue of them. And his actions have arisen in such a way, one out of the other, that men have never been given time to work steadily against him.
没有什么比伟大的事业和树立的榜样更能让王子受到尊敬的了。我们这个时代有阿拉贡的斐迪南，现任西班牙国王。他几乎可以被称为新王子，因为他凭借名声和荣耀，从一个微不足道的国王崛起为基督教世界最重要的国王；如果你仔细思考他的事迹，你会发现他们都是伟大的，其中一些是非凡的。在他统治之初，他进攻了格拉纳达，这一事业是他统治的基础。起初，他是悄悄地做这件事，没有担心会受到阻碍，因为他让卡斯蒂利亚贵族们全神贯注于战争，而不是期待任何创新；因此，他们没有意识到他通过这些手段获得了对他们的权力和权威。他能够用教会和人民的钱来维持他的军队，并通过这场长期的战争为他后来脱颖而出的军事技能奠定了基础。此外，他总是以宗教为借口，以便实施更大的计划，他以虔诚的残忍态度致力于驱逐和清理他的摩尔人王国。没有比这更令人钦佩、更罕见的例子了。他披着同样的外衣袭击了非洲，袭击了意大利，最后袭击了法国；因此，他的成就和计划一直都是伟大的，让他的人民一直悬念和钦佩，并关注他们的问题。他的行动以这样一种方式出现，一个接一个，以至于人们从来没有时间持续地反对他。

Again, it much assists a prince to set unusual examples in internal affairs, similar to those which are related of Messer Bernabo da Milano, who, when he had the opportunity, by any one in civil life doing some extraordinary thing, either good or bad, would take some method of rewarding or punishing him, which would be much spoken about. And a prince ought, above all things, always endeavour in every action to gain for himself the reputation of being a great and remarkable man.
同样，这对王子在内政中树立不寻常的榜样有很大帮助，类似于贝尔纳博·达·米兰先生的那些事，当他有机会时，公民生活中的任何人都会做出一些非凡的事情，无论是好还是坏。 ，会采取一些奖励或惩罚他的方法，这会被很多人谈论。君主首先应该在一切行动中努力为自己赢得伟大而杰出的人的声誉。

A prince is also respected when he is either a true friend or a downright enemy, that is to say, when, without any reservation, he declares himself in favour of one party against the other; which course will always be more advantageous than standing neutral; because if two of your powerful neighbours come to blows, they are of such a character that, if one of them conquers, you have either to fear him or not. In either case it will always be more advantageous for you to declare yourself and to make war strenuously; because, in the first case, if you do not declare yourself, you will invariably fall a prey to the conqueror, to the pleasure and satisfaction of him who has been conquered, and you will have no reasons to offer, nor anything to protect or to shelter you. Because he who conquers does not want doubtful friends who will not aid him in the time of trial; and he who loses will not harbour you because you did not willingly, sword in hand, court his fate.
当君主是真正的朋友或彻头彻尾的敌人时，也就是说，当他毫无保留地宣称自己支持一方反对另一方时，他也会受到尊重。哪种做法总是比保持中立更有利；因为如果你的两个强大的邻居打起来，他们的性格就是这样，如果其中一个获胜，你要么害怕他，要么不害怕他。无论哪种情况，对你来说，宣布自己的立场并激烈地发动战争总是更有利的。因为，在第一种情况下，如果你不表明自己，你将不可避免地成为征服者的牺牲品，成为被征服者的快乐和满足的牺牲品，而你将没有理由提供，也没有任何东西可以保护或保护。来庇护你。因为征服者不想要那些在考验时不会帮助他的可疑的朋友；失败的人不会庇护你，因为你不愿意手握利剑迎合他的命运。

Antiochus went into Greece, being sent for by the Aetolians to drive out the Romans. He sent envoys to the Achaeans, who were friends of the Romans, exhorting them to remain neutral; and on the other hand the Romans urged them to take up arms. This question came to be discussed in the council of the Achaeans, where the legate of Antiochus urged them to stand neutral. To this the Roman legate answered: ‘As for that which has been said, that it is better and more advantageous for your state not to interfere in our war, nothing can be more erroneous; because by not interfering you will be left, without favour or consideration, the guerdon of the conqueror.’ Thus it will always happen that he who is not your friend will demand your neutrality, whilst he who is your friend will entreat you to declare yourself with arms. And irresolute princes, to avoid present dangers, generally follow the neutral path, and are generally ruined. But when a prince declares himself gallantly in favour of one side, if the party with whom he allies himself conquers, although the victor may be powerful and may have him at his mercy, yet he is indebted to him, and there is established a bond of amity; and men are never so shameless as to become a monument of ingratitude by oppressing you. Victories after all are never so complete that the victor must not show some regard, especially to justice. But if he with whom you ally yourself loses, you may be sheltered by him, and whilst he is able he may aid you, and you become companions on a fortune that may rise again.
安条克受埃托利亚人派遣前往希腊驱逐罗马人。他派遣使节前往罗马人的朋友亚该亚人，劝告他们保持中立。另一方面，罗马人敦促他们拿起武器。这个问题在亚该亚会议上进行了讨论，安条克的使节敦促他们保持中立。对此，罗马使节回答说：“至于所说的，对你们的国家来说，不干涉我们的战争更好、更有利，那就大错特错了；因为如果你不干涉，你就会成为征服者的主人，得不到任何青睐或考虑。”因此，总会发生这样的情况：不是你朋友的人会要求你保持中立，而你的朋友会恳求你表明自己的立场带武器。而优柔寡断的诸侯，为了避免眼前的危险，一般都会走中立道路，而一般都会破产。但是，当一位君主勇敢地宣称自己支持一方时，如果与他结盟的一方获胜，尽管胜利者可能很强大并且可以任由他摆布，但他对他有亏欠，并且建立了一种联系和睦相处；男人从来不会无耻到通过压迫你而成为忘恩负义的纪念碑。毕竟，胜利从来都不会彻底到胜利者不应该表现出某种尊重的程度，尤其是对正义的尊重。但如果与你结盟的人失败了，你可能会得到他的庇护，而当他有能力时，他可能会帮助你，你们就成为财富上的伙伴，财富可能会再次上升。

In the second case, when those who fight are of such a character that you have no anxiety as to who may conquer, so much the more is it greater prudence to be allied, because you assist at the destruction of one by the aid of another who, if he had been wise, would have saved him; and conquering, as it is impossible that he should not do with your assistance, he remains at your discretion. And here it is to be noted that a prince ought to take care never to make an alliance with one more powerful than himself for the purposes of attacking others, unless necessity compels him, as is said above; because if he conquers you are at his discretion, and princes ought to avoid as much as possible being at the discretion of any one. The Venetians joined with France against the Duke of Milan, and this alliance, which caused their ruin, could have been avoided. But when it cannot be avoided, as happened to the Florentines when the Pope and Spain sent armies to attack Lombardy, then in such a case, for the above reasons, the prince ought to favour one of the parties.
在第二种情况下，当那些战斗者的性格使你不担心谁会获胜时，结盟就更加谨慎，因为你通过一个人的帮助来帮助另一个人毁灭另一个人如果他明智的话，谁会救他的？征服，因为他不可能不得到你的帮助，他仍然由你决定。这里需要注意的是，君主应该注意，除非有必要，否则不要为了攻击他人而与比自己强大的人结盟，除非如上所述。因为如果他征服了你，那是由他自己决定的，而王子们应该尽可能避免由任何人决定。威尼斯人与法国联合起来对抗米兰公爵，这次联盟导致了他们的灭亡，这是可以避免的。但是，当它无法避免时，就像教皇和西班牙派军队进攻伦巴第时佛罗伦萨人所发生的那样，那么在这种情况下，出于上述原因，王子应该支持其中一方。

Never let any Government imagine that it can choose perfectly safe courses; rather let it expect to have to take very doubtful ones, because it is found in ordinary affairs that one never seeks to avoid one trouble without running into another; but prudence consists in knowing how to distinguish the character of troubles, and for choice to take the lesser evil.
永远不要让任何政府想象它可以选择完全安全的课程；相反，让它预期必须接受非常可疑的问题，因为在日常事务中我们发现，人们永远不会试图避免一种麻烦而不遇到另一种麻烦。但谨慎在于知道如何区分麻烦的性质，并选择两害相权取其轻。

A prince ought also to show himself a patron of ability, and to honour the proficient in every art. At the same time he should encourage his citizens to practise their callings peaceably, both in commerce and agriculture, and in every other following, so that the one should not be deterred from improving his possessions for fear lest they be taken away from him or another from opening up trade for fear of taxes; but the prince ought to offer rewards to whoever wishes to do these things and designs in any way to honour his city or state.
王子还应该表现出自己是能力的赞助人，并尊重每一种艺术的精通者。与此同时，他应该鼓励他的公民在商业和农业以及其他一切领域和平地实践他们的使命，这样人们就不会因为担心财产被从他或他人手中夺走而阻止改善他的财产。由于担心税收而开放贸易；但是，王子应该向任何愿意做这些事情并以任何方式设计以荣耀他的城市或国家的人提供奖励。

Further, he ought to entertain the people with festivals and spectacles at convenient seasons of the year; and as every city is divided into guilds or into societies,[*] he ought to hold such bodies in esteem, and associate with them sometimes, and show himself an example of courtesy and liberality; nevertheless, always maintaining the majesty of his rank, for this he must never consent to abate in anything.
此外，他应该在一年中合适的季节以节日和奇观来娱乐人民；由于每个城市都分为行会或社团，[*]他应该尊重这些团体，有时与他们交往，并表现出礼貌和慷慨的榜样；尽管如此，他始终保持着自己地位的威严，为此他绝不能同意在任何事情上有所减弱。

[*] ‘Guilds or societies,’ ‘in arti o in tribu.’ ‘Arti’ were craft or trade guilds, cf. Florio: ‘Arte … a whole company of any trade in any city or corporation town.’ The guilds of Florence are most admirably described by Mr Edgcumbe Staley in his work on the subject (Methuen, 1906). Institutions of a somewhat similar character, called ‘artel,’ exist in Russia to-day, cf. Sir Mackenzie Wallace’s ‘Russia,’ ed. 1905: ‘The sons … were always during the working season members of an artel. In some of the larger towns there are artels of a much more complex kind— permanent associations, possessing large capital, and pecuniarily responsible for the acts of the individual members.’ The word ‘artel,’ despite its apparent similarity, has, Mr Aylmer Maude assures me, no connection with ‘ars’ or ‘arte.’ Its root is that of the verb ‘rotisya,’ to bind oneself by an oath; and it is generally admitted to be only another form of ‘rota,’ which now signifies a ‘regimental company.’ In both words the underlying idea is that of a body of men united by an oath. ‘Tribu’ were possibly gentile groups, united by common descent, and included individuals connected by marriage. Perhaps our words ‘septs’ or ‘clans’ would be most appropriate.
[*]“行会或社团”，“in arti o in tribu”。“Arti”是手工艺或贸易行会，参见。弗洛里奥：“艺术……任何城市或企业城镇的任何行业的整个公司。”埃德格库姆·斯塔利先生在他关于这一主题的著作中对佛罗伦萨的行会进行了最令人钦佩的描述（Methuen，1906）。今天的俄罗斯存在着类似性质的机构，称为“artel”，参见。麦肯齐·华莱士爵士的《俄罗斯》，编辑。 1905 年：“儿子们……在工作季节始终是工社的成员。在一些较大的城镇中，存在着更为复杂的类型——永久性协会，拥有大量资本，并对个别成员的行为在金钱上负责。”“artel”这个词尽管看起来很相似，但艾尔默先生莫德向我保证，与“ars”或“arte”没有任何关系。它的词根是动词“rotisya”，意思是发誓约束自己；人们普遍认为它只是“rota”的另一种形式，现在表示“团连”。这两个词的基本思想都是通过誓言团结起来的一群人。 “Tribu”可能是由共同血统联合起来的氏族群体，包括通过婚姻联系在一起的个人。也许我们的词“圣徒”或“氏族”是最合适的。

CHAPTER XXII. CONCERNING THE SECRETARIES OF PRINCES
第二十二章。关于王子的秘书

The choice of servants is of no little importance to a prince, and they are good or not according to the discrimination of the prince. And the first opinion which one forms of a prince, and of his understanding, is by observing the men he has around him; and when they are capable and faithful he may always be considered wise, because he has known how to recognize the capable and to keep them faithful. But when they are otherwise one cannot form a good opinion of him, for the prime error which he made was in choosing them.
仆人的选择对于一个君主来说是非常重要的，他们的好坏取决于君主的辨别。人们对君主及其理解力的第一个看法是通过观察他周围的人。当他们有能力且忠诚时，他可能总是被认为是明智的，因为他知道如何识别有能力的人并让他们保持忠诚。但如果他们不是这样，人们就无法对他产生好感，因为他所犯的主要错误就是选择他们。

There were none who knew Messer Antonio da Venafro as the servant of Pandolfo Petrucci, Prince of Siena, who would not consider Pandolfo to be a very clever man in having Venafro for his servant. Because there are three classes of intellects: one which comprehends by itself; another which appreciates what others comprehended; and a third which neither comprehends by itself nor by the showing of others; the first is the most excellent, the second is good, the third is useless. Therefore, it follows necessarily that, if Pandolfo was not in the first rank, he was in the second, for whenever one has judgment to know good and bad when it is said and done, although he himself may not have the initiative, yet he can recognize the good and the bad in his servant, and the one he can praise and the other correct; thus the servant cannot hope to deceive him, and is kept honest.
没有人知道安东尼奥·达·韦纳弗罗先生是锡耶纳亲王潘多夫·彼得鲁奇的仆人，他不会认为潘多夫让韦纳弗罗做他的仆人是一个非常聪明的人。因为智力分为三类：一类是自身理解的；一类是自己理解的；一类是自己理解的。另一个人欣赏别人的理解；第三种既不能自己理解，也不能通过他人的展示来理解；第一个是最优秀的，第二个是好的，第三个是无用的。因此，潘多夫如果不是第一，那就必然是第二，因为只要有判断力，说出来、做起来，虽然他自己不一定有主动性，但他却能做出判断。能辨出仆人的好与坏，可以称赞，也可以纠正；因此，仆人不可能欺骗他，并且保持诚实。

But to enable a prince to form an opinion of his servant there is one test which never fails; when you see the servant thinking more of his own interests than of yours, and seeking inwardly his own profit in everything, such a man will never make a good servant, nor will you ever be able to trust him; because he who has the state of another in his hands ought never to think of himself, but always of his prince, and never pay any attention to matters in which the prince is not concerned.
但是，要让君主对他的仆人形成看法，有一个永远不会失败的测试：当你看到仆人更多地考虑自己的利益而不是你的利益，并且凡事都只顾自己的利益时，这样的人永远不会成为一个好仆人，你也永远无法信任他。因为，掌握别人国家的人，永远不应该考虑自己，而应该总是考虑他的君主，并且永远不要关注与君主无关的事情。

On the other hand, to keep his servant honest the prince ought to study him, honouring him, enriching him, doing him kindnesses, sharing with him the honours and cares; and at the same time let him see that he cannot stand alone, so that many honours may not make him desire more, many riches make him wish for more, and that many cares may make him dread chances. When, therefore, servants, and princes towards servants, are thus disposed, they can trust each other, but when it is otherwise, the end will always be disastrous for either one or the other.
另一方面，为了保持仆人的诚实，君主应该研究他，尊敬他，丰富他，善待他，与他分享荣誉和忧虑；同时让他看到自己不能孤独，以免许多荣誉使他贪得无厌，许多财富使他贪得无厌，许多忧虑使他畏惧机会。因此，臣子和君王对臣子如此，就可以相互信任；否则，无论是一方还是另一方，结局总是灾难性的。

CHAPTER XXIII. HOW FLATTERERS SHOULD BE AVOIDED
第二十三章。如何避免阿谀奉承者

I do not wish to leave out an important branch of this subject, for it is a danger from which princes are with difficulty preserved, unless they are very careful and discriminating. It is that of flatterers, of whom courts are full, because men are so self-complacent in their own affairs, and in a way so deceived in them, that they are preserved with difficulty from this pest, and if they wish to defend themselves they run the danger of falling into contempt. Because there is no other way of guarding oneself from flatterers except letting men understand that to tell you the truth does not offend you; but when every one may tell you the truth, respect for you abates.
我不想遗漏这个主题的一个重要分支，因为君主们很难避免这种危险，除非他们非常小心和有辨别力。这是那些谄媚者的事，法庭上充满了他们，因为人们对自己的事情如此自满，并且在某种程度上他们被欺骗了，以至于他们很难免受这种害虫的侵害，如果他们想保护自己的话他们面临着遭受蔑视的危险。因为除了让男人明白告诉你真相并不会冒犯你之外，没有其他方法可以保护自己免受阿谀奉承；但当每个人都告诉你真相时，对你的尊重就会减弱。

Therefore a wise prince ought to hold a third course by choosing the wise men in his state, and giving to them only the liberty of speaking the truth to him, and then only of those things of which he inquires, and of none others; but he ought to question them upon everything, and listen to their opinions, and afterwards form his own conclusions. With these councillors, separately and collectively, he ought to carry himself in such a way that each of them should know that, the more freely he shall speak, the more he shall be preferred; outside of these, he should listen to no one, pursue the thing resolved on, and be steadfast in his resolutions. He who does otherwise is either overthrown by flatterers, or is so often changed by varying opinions that he falls into contempt.
因此，一个明智的君主应该采取第三种做法，即选择他所在国家的智者，只给予他们向他说出真相的自由，并且只给予他询问的那些事情，而不是其他事情；但他应该向他们提出一切问题，听取他们的意见，然后得出自己的结论。与这些议员在一起时，无论是单独的还是集体的，他都应该以这样的方式行事，让他们每个人都知道，他说话越自由，他就越受青睐；除此之外，他不应该听从任何人的意见，要追求所定的事情，并且要坚定自己的决心。不这样做的人要么会被阿谀奉承者推翻，要么经常因不同的观点而改变而陷入蔑视。

I wish on this subject to adduce a modern example. Fra Luca, the man of affairs to Maximilian,[*] the present emperor, speaking of his majesty, said: He consulted with no one, yet never got his own way in anything. This arose because of his following a practice the opposite to the above; for the emperor is a secretive man—he does not communicate his designs to any one, nor does he receive opinions on them. But as in carrying them into effect they become revealed and known, they are at once obstructed by those men whom he has around him, and he, being pliant, is diverted from them. Hence it follows that those things he does one day he undoes the next, and no one ever understands what he wishes or intends to do, and no one can rely on his resolutions.
我想在这个问题上举一个现代的例子。现任皇帝马克西米利安的重要人物弗拉·卢卡在谈到他的陛下时说：他没有与任何人协商，但在任何事情上从来没有按照自己的方式行事。这是因为他遵循与上述相反的做法；因为皇帝是一个神秘的人——他不向任何人传达他的计划，也不接受对这些计划的意见。但是，当它们在实施过程中被揭示和知晓时，它们立刻就被他周围的那些人所阻碍，而他，因为顺从，就远离了它们。因此，他这一天所做的事情，第二天就会毁掉，没有人能理解他希望或打算做什么，也没有人可以依赖他的决心。

[*] Maximilian I, born in 1459, died 1519, Emperor of the Holy Roman Empire. He married, first, Mary, daughter of Charles the Bold; after her death, Bianca Sforza; and thus became involved in Italian politics.
[*] 马克西米利安一世，生于 1459 年，卒于 1519 年，神圣罗马帝国皇帝。他首先娶了“大胆者”查理的女儿玛丽；比安卡·斯福尔扎去世后；并由此涉足意大利政坛。

A prince, therefore, ought always to take counsel, but only when he wishes and not when others wish; he ought rather to discourage every one from offering advice unless he asks it; but, however, he ought to be a constant inquirer, and afterwards a patient listener concerning the things of which he inquired; also, on learning that nay one, on any consideration, has not told him the truth, he should let his anger be felt.
因此，君主应该经常征求意见，但只有在他愿意的时候，而不是在别人愿意的时候。他应该劝阻每个人除非他提出要求，否则不要提供建议。但是，他应该不断地询问，然后耐心地倾听他询问的事情。而且，一旦得知有人，无论出于何种考虑，都没有告诉他真相，他就应该表达自己的愤怒。

And if there are some who think that a prince who conveys an impression of his wisdom is not so through his own ability, but through the good advisers that he has around him, beyond doubt they are deceived, because this is an axiom which never fails: that a prince who is not wise himself will never take good advice, unless by chance he has yielded his affairs entirely to one person who happens to be a very prudent man. In this case indeed he may be well governed, but it would not be for long, because such a governor would in a short time take away his state from him.
如果有人认为，一位王子给人留下的智慧印象并不是通过他自己的能力，而是通过他周围的良师益友，那么他们无疑是被欺骗了，因为这是一条永远不会失败的公理。 ：一位本身不明智的君主永远不会采纳好的建议，除非他偶然将自己的事务完全交给了一个恰好是一位非常谨慎的人。在这种情况下，他确实可以得到很好的治理，但这种治理不会持续太久，因为这样的治理者很快就会夺走他的国家。

But if a prince who is not inexperienced should take counsel from more than one he will never get united counsels, nor will he know how to unite them. Each of the counsellors will think of his own interests, and the prince will not know how to control them or to see through them. And they are not to found otherwise, because men will always prove untrue to you unless they are kept honest by constraint. Therefore it must be inferred that good counsels, whencesoever they come, are born of the wisdom of the prince, and not the wisdom of the prince from good counsels.
但是，如果一位并非缺乏经验的君主要听取多个人的建议，他就永远不会得到统一的建议，也不知道如何统一这些建议。每个谋士都会想到自己的利益，而太子不知道如何控制他们，也不知道如何看透他们。否则就不会发现它们，因为人们总是会证明对你不忠诚，除非他们通过约束保持诚实。由此可见，善谋无论从何而来，都是由君王的智慧所生，而不是君王的智慧由善谋而生。

CHAPTER XXIV. WHY THE PRINCES OF ITALY HAVE LOST THEIR STATES
第二十四章。为什么意大利王子失去了他们的国家

The previous suggestions, carefully observed, will enable a new prince to appear well established, and render him at once more secure and fixed in the state than if he had been long seated there. For the actions of a new prince are more narrowly observed than those of an hereditary one, and when they are seen to be able they gain more men and bind far tighter than ancient blood; because men are attracted more by the present than by the past, and when they find the present good they enjoy it and seek no further; they will also make the utmost defence of a prince if he fails them not in other things. Thus it will be a double glory for him to have established a new principality, and adorned and strengthened it with good laws, good arms, good allies, and with a good example; so will it be a double disgrace to him who, born a prince, shall lose his state by want of wisdom.
前面的建议，如果仔细观察的话，将使新王子看起来地位稳固，并且使他在国家中比长期坐镇时更加安全和固定。因为新君主的行为比世袭君主的行为受到更严格的观察，当他们被认为有能力时，他们会获得更多的人，并且比古代的血缘关系更紧密。因为人们更容易被现在所吸引，而不是被过去所吸引，当他们发现眼前的好处时，他们就会享受它，而不会再寻求更多。如果王子在其他事情上没有让他们失望，他们也会尽最大努力保护王子。因此，建立一个新的公国，并用良好的法律、良好的武器、良好的盟友和良好的榜样来装饰和加强它，对他来说将是双重的荣耀。同样，对于一个生来是王子的人来说，如果因为缺乏智慧而失去他的国家，那将是双重的耻辱。

And if those seigniors are considered who have lost their states in Italy in our times, such as the King of Naples, the Duke of Milan, and others, there will be found in them, firstly, one common defect in regard to arms from the causes which have been discussed at length; in the next place, some one of them will be seen, either to have had the people hostile, or if he has had the people friendly, he has not known how to secure the nobles. In the absence of these defects states that have power enough to keep an army in the field cannot be lost.
如果考虑一下那些在我们这个时代在意大利失去了领地的领主，例如那不勒斯国王、米兰公爵等人，我们会发现他们首先有一个共同的缺陷，那就是来自意大利的武器。已详细讨论过的原因；其次，会看到他们中的某个人，要么对人民怀有敌意，要么对人民友善，但他不知道如何保护贵族。如果没有这些缺陷，拥有足够力量维持军队在战场上的国家就不会失去。

Philip of Macedon, not the father of Alexander the Great, but he who was conquered by Titus Quintius, had not much territory compared to the greatness of the Romans and of Greece who attacked him, yet being a warlike man who knew how to attract the people and secure the nobles, he sustained the war against his enemies for many years, and if in the end he lost the dominion of some cities, nevertheless he retained the kingdom.
马其顿的腓力不是亚历山大大帝的父亲，而是被提图斯·昆提乌斯征服的人，与攻击他的罗马人和希腊人的伟大相比，他的领土并不多，但他是一个好战的人，知道如何吸引敌人他与敌人进行了多年的战争，即使最终失去了一些城市的统治权，但他仍然保住了王国。

Therefore, do not let our princes accuse fortune for the loss of their principalities after so many years’ possession, but rather their own sloth, because in quiet times they never thought there could be a change (it is a common defect in man not to make any provision in the calm against the tempest), and when afterwards the bad times came they thought of flight and not of defending themselves, and they hoped that the people, disgusted with the insolence of the conquerors, would recall them. This course, when others fail, may be good, but it is very bad to have neglected all other expedients for that, since you would never wish to fall because you trusted to be able to find someone later on to restore you. This again either does not happen, or, if it does, it will not be for your security, because that deliverance is of no avail which does not depend upon yourself; those only are reliable, certain, and durable that depend on yourself and your valour.
因此，不要让我们的王子们指责命运让他们在拥有了这么多年的统治后失去了自己的领地，而应该指责他们自己的懒惰，因为在安静的时候他们从来没有想过会有改变（不改变自己的统治是人类的共同缺陷）在平静中做好应对暴风雨的准备），当困难时期到来时，他们想到的是逃跑而不是自卫，他们希望人民对征服者的傲慢感到厌恶，会召回他们。当其他人失败时，这个过程可能是好的，但是为此而忽略了所有其他权宜之计是非常糟糕的，因为你永远不会希望跌倒，因为你相信以后能够找到某人来恢复你。同样，这种情况要么不会发生，要么即使发生了，也不利于你的安全，因为不依赖你自己的解脱是没有用的；只有那些依赖于你自己和你的勇气的东西才是可靠的、确定的和持久的。

CHAPTER XXV. WHAT FORTUNE CAN EFFECT IN HUMAN AFFAIRS AND HOW TO WITHSTAND HER
第二十五章。命运对人事有什么影响以及如何承受它

It is not unknown to me how many men have had, and still have, the opinion that the affairs of the world are in such wise governed by fortune and by God that men with their wisdom cannot direct them and that no one can even help them; and because of this they would have us believe that it is not necessary to labour much in affairs, but to let chance govern them. This opinion has been more credited in our times because of the great changes in affairs which have been seen, and may still be seen, every day, beyond all human conjecture. Sometimes pondering over this, I am in some degree inclined to their opinion. Nevertheless, not to extinguish our free will, I hold it to be true that Fortune is the arbiter of one-half of our actions,[*] but that she still leaves us to direct the other half, or perhaps a little less.
我不知道有多少人曾经并且仍然认为，世界上的事务是由命运和上帝统治的，以他们的智慧无法指导他们，甚至没有人可以帮助他们;正因为如此，他们想让我们相信，没有必要在事务中付出太多的努力，而应该让机会来支配它们。这种观点在我们这个时代得到了更多的认可，因为每天都在发生着、而且可能仍然会发生的巨大变化，超出了人类的想象。有时思考这个问题，我多少也倾向于他们的观点。尽管如此，为了不消除我们的自由意志，我认为命运确实是我们一半行为的仲裁者，[*]但她仍然让我们来指导另一半，或者可能少一点。

[*] Frederick the Great was accustomed to say: ‘The older one gets the more convinced one becomes that his Majesty King Chance does three-quarters of the business of this miserable universe.’ Sorel’s ‘Eastern Question.’
[*]腓特烈大帝习惯于说：“年纪越大的人就越相信钱斯国王陛下承担了这个悲惨宇宙的四分之三的事务。”索雷尔的《东方问题》。

I compare her to one of those raging rivers, which when in flood overflows the plains, sweeping away trees and buildings, bearing away the soil from place to place; everything flies before it, all yield to its violence, without being able in any way to withstand it; and yet, though its nature be such, it does not follow therefore that men, when the weather becomes fair, shall not make provision, both with defences and barriers, in such a manner that, rising again, the waters may pass away by canal, and their force be neither so unrestrained nor so dangerous. So it happens with fortune, who shows her power where valour has not prepared to resist her, and thither she turns her forces where she knows that barriers and defences have not been raised to constrain her.
我把她比作一条汹涌的河流，当洪水泛滥时，河流会漫过平原，冲走树木和建筑物，把土壤从一个地方带到另一个地方。一切都在它面前飞翔，都屈服于它的暴力，却无法抵挡它。然而，尽管其性质如此，但这并不意味着当天气晴朗时，人们不会采取防御措施和屏障，以便水再次上涨时可以通过运河流走。 ，他们的力量既不那么肆无忌惮，也不那么危险。命运也是如此，在勇气还没有准备好抵抗她的地方，她展示了她的力量，在她知道没有设置障碍和防御来限制她的地方，她将她的力量转向那里。

And if you will consider Italy, which is the seat of these changes, and which has given to them their impulse, you will see it to be an open country without barriers and without any defence. For if it had been defended by proper valour, as are Germany, Spain, and France, either this invasion would not have made the great changes it has made or it would not have come at all. And this I consider enough to say concerning resistance to fortune in general.
如果你考虑一下意大利，它是这些变化的发源地，也是这些变化的推动力，你会发现它是一个开放的国家，没有障碍，没有任何防御。因为如果像德国、西班牙和法国那样以适当的勇气来保卫它，那么这次入侵要么不会造成如此巨大的变化，要么根本就不会发生。关于对命运的一般抵抗力，我认为这一点已经足够了。

But confining myself more to the particular, I say that a prince may be seen happy to-day and ruined to-morrow without having shown any change of disposition or character. This, I believe, arises firstly from causes that have already been discussed at length, namely, that the prince who relies entirely on fortune is lost when it changes. I believe also that he will be successful who directs his actions according to the spirit of the times, and that he whose actions do not accord with the times will not be successful. Because men are seen, in affairs that lead to the end which every man has before him, namely, glory and riches, to get there by various methods; one with caution, another with haste; one by force, another by skill; one by patience, another by its opposite; and each one succeeds in reaching the goal by a different method. One can also see of two cautious men the one attain his end, the other fail; and similarly, two men by different observances are equally successful, the one being cautious, the other impetuous; all this arises from nothing else than whether or not they conform in their methods to the spirit of the times. This follows from what I have said, that two men working differently bring about the same effect, and of two working similarly, one attains his object and the other does not.
但我更具体地说，我说一位王子可能今天很高兴，明天就毁了，而没有表现出任何性情或性格的变化。我认为，这首先是由前面已经详细讨论过的原因引起的，即完全依靠运气的君主在变化时就会丧失。我也相信，符合时代精神的人会成功，不符合时代精神的人不会成功。因为人们看到，在通往每个人面前的最终目标（即荣耀和财富）的事务中，人们通过各种方法来实现这一目标；一个是谨慎，另一个是匆忙；一是靠武力，二是靠技巧；一种是靠耐心，另一种是靠相反的态度；每个人都通过不同的方法成功地实现了目标。我们还可以看到，两个谨慎的人，一个达到了目的，另一个失败了。同样，两个人虽然遵循不同的准则，却同样成功，一个是谨慎的，另一个是鲁莽的。这一切无非在于他们的做法是否符合时代精神。根据我所说，两个人以不同的方式工作会产生相同的效果，而两个人以相同的方式工作，一个可以达到他的目的，另一个则不能。

Changes in estate also issue from this, for if, to one who governs himself with caution and patience, times and affairs converge in such a way that his administration is successful, his fortune is made; but if times and affairs change, he is ruined if he does not change his course of action. But a man is not often found sufficiently circumspect to know how to accommodate himself to the change, both because he cannot deviate from what nature inclines him to do, and also because, having always prospered by acting in one way, he cannot be persuaded that it is well to leave it; and, therefore, the cautious man, when it is time to turn adventurous, does not know how to do it, hence he is ruined; but had he changed his conduct with the times fortune would not have changed.
财产的变化也由此产生，因为对于一个谨慎而耐心地管理自己的人来说，如果时间和事件以这样的方式融合在一起，他的管理成功，他的财富就发了财；但时势变迁，如果不改变自己的行为方针，他就会破产。但是，一个人往往不够谨慎，不知道如何让自己适应变化，这既是因为他不能偏离自然倾向，也因为他总是以一种方式行事而繁荣，因此无法说服他最好还是离开它；因此，谨慎的人，到了冒险的时候，却不知如何去做，结果他就破产了。但即使他随时代改变自己的行为，命运也不会改变。

Pope Julius the Second went to work impetuously in all his affairs, and found the times and circumstances conform so well to that line of action that he always met with success. Consider his first enterprise against Bologna, Messer Giovanni Bentivogli being still alive. The Venetians were not agreeable to it, nor was the King of Spain, and he had the enterprise still under discussion with the King of France; nevertheless he personally entered upon the expedition with his accustomed boldness and energy, a move which made Spain and the Venetians stand irresolute and passive, the latter from fear, the former from desire to recover the kingdom of Naples; on the other hand, he drew after him the King of France, because that king, having observed the movement, and desiring to make the Pope his friend so as to humble the Venetians, found it impossible to refuse him. Therefore Julius with his impetuous action accomplished what no other pontiff with simple human wisdom could have done; for if he had waited in Rome until he could get away, with his plans arranged and everything fixed, as any other pontiff would have done, he would never have succeeded. Because the King of France would have made a thousand excuses, and the others would have raised a thousand fears.
教皇朱利叶斯二世急躁地处理他的所有事务，并发现时代和环境非常适合他的行动路线，因此他总是取得成功。想想他对博洛尼亚的第一次进攻，乔瓦尼·本蒂沃利先生还活着。威尼斯人不同意，西班牙国王也不同意，他仍在与法国国王讨论这项计划。尽管如此，他仍以一贯的大胆和干劲亲自出征，此举使西班牙和威尼斯人犹豫不决、消极被动，后者是出于恐惧，前者是出于恢复那不勒斯王国的愿望。另一方面，他又拉拢了法国国王，因为法国国王观察到了这一动向，并希望与教皇成为他的朋友，以羞辱威尼斯人，发现无法拒绝他。因此尤利乌斯以他鲁莽的行动完成了其他具有简单人类智慧的教皇所无法做到的事情。因为如果他像其他教皇那样在罗马等待，直到他可以离开，计划安排好，一切都固定下来，他就永远不会成功。因为法国国王会提出一千个借口，而其他人会提出一千个恐惧。

I will leave his other actions alone, as they were all alike, and they all succeeded, for the shortness of his life did not let him experience the contrary; but if circumstances had arisen which required him to go cautiously, his ruin would have followed, because he would never have deviated from those ways to which nature inclined him.
我不会理会他的其他行为，因为它们都是一样的，而且都成功了，因为他生命的短暂并没有让他经历相反的事情；但如果出现需要他谨慎行事的情况，他的毁灭就会随之而来，因为他永远不会偏离自然倾向他的道路。

I conclude, therefore that, fortune being changeful and mankind steadfast in their ways, so long as the two are in agreement men are successful, but unsuccessful when they fall out. For my part I consider that it is better to be adventurous than cautious, because fortune is a woman, and if you wish to keep her under it is necessary to beat and ill-use her; and it is seen that she allows herself to be mastered by the adventurous rather than by those who go to work more coldly. She is, therefore, always, woman-like, a lover of young men, because they are less cautious, more violent, and with more audacity command her.
所以我的结论是，命运多变，人性坚定，两者相合则成功，相悖则不成功。就我而言，我认为冒险比谨慎更好，因为命运是一个女人，如果你想控制她，就必须殴打和虐待她；可以看出，她让自己被那些喜欢冒险的人所控制，而不是被那些冷漠地上班的人所控制。因此，她总是像女人一样，是年轻男子的情人，因为他们不那么谨慎，更暴力，更大胆地指挥她。

CHAPTER XXVI. AN EXHORTATION TO LIBERATE ITALY FROM THE BARBARIANS
第二十六章。劝告将意大利从野蛮人手中解放出来

Having carefully considered the subject of the above discourses, and wondering within myself whether the present times were propitious to a new prince, and whether there were elements that would give an opportunity to a wise and virtuous one to introduce a new order of things which would do honour to him and good to the people of this country, it appears to me that so many things concur to favour a new prince that I never knew a time more fit than the present.
在仔细考虑了上述论述的主题之后，我内心想知道现在的时代是否有利于一位新的君主，以及是否有一些因素可以给一个明智而有道德的人一个机会来引入一种新的事物秩序，从而尊重他并造福这个国家的人民，在我看来，这么多的事情都支持一位新王子，我从来没有比现在更合适的了。

And if, as I said, it was necessary that the people of Israel should be captive so as to make manifest the ability of Moses; that the Persians should be oppressed by the Medes so as to discover the greatness of the soul of Cyrus; and that the Athenians should be dispersed to illustrate the capabilities of Theseus: then at the present time, in order to discover the virtue of an Italian spirit, it was necessary that Italy should be reduced to the extremity that she is now in, that she should be more enslaved than the Hebrews, more oppressed than the Persians, more scattered than the Athenians; without head, without order, beaten, despoiled, torn, overrun; and to have endured every kind of desolation.
如果像我所说的那样，以色列人必须被俘虏才能彰显摩西的能力；波斯人应该受到米底人的压迫，才能发现居鲁士灵魂的伟大；雅典人应该被驱散，以展示忒修斯的能力：那么，现在，为了发现意大利精神的美德，有必要将意大利降低到她现在所处的极端，以至于她他们应该比希伯来人更受奴役，比波斯人更受压迫，比雅典人更分散；没有头，没有秩序，被殴打，被掠夺，被撕裂，被超越；并忍受了各种荒凉。

Although lately some spark may have been shown by one, which made us think he was ordained by God for our redemption, nevertheless it was afterwards seen, in the height of his career, that fortune rejected him; so that Italy, left as without life, waits for him who shall yet heal her wounds and put an end to the ravaging and plundering of Lombardy, to the swindling and taxing of the kingdom and of Tuscany, and cleanse those sores that for long have festered. It is seen how she entreats God to send someone who shall deliver her from these wrongs and barbarous insolencies. It is seen also that she is ready and willing to follow a banner if only someone will raise it.
尽管最近有人表现出了一些火花，使我们认为他是上帝所命定来救赎我们的，但后来我们发现，在他事业的鼎盛时期，命运拒绝了他；因此，意大利，就像没有生命一样，等待着他治愈她的伤口，结束对伦巴第的蹂躏和掠夺，停止对王国和托斯卡纳的欺骗和征税，并净化那些长期存在的疮疤。溃烂了。可以看出她如何恳求上帝派遣一个人来拯救她免受这些错误和野蛮的侮辱。还可以看出，只要有人举起横幅，她就准备好并愿意跟随。

Nor is there to be seen at present one in whom she can place more hope than in your illustrious house,[*] with its valour and fortune, favoured by God and by the Church of which it is now the chief, and which could be made the head of this redemption. This will not be difficult if you will recall to yourself the actions and lives of the men I have named. And although they were great and wonderful men, yet they were men, and each one of them had no more opportunity than the present offers, for their enterprises were neither more just nor easier than this, nor was God more their friend than He is yours.
目前，没有人比您的显赫家族更能寄予希望了，它的英勇和财富，受到上帝和教会的青睐，现在它是教会的主要成员，并且可以成为教会的一部分。成为这次救赎的主角。如果你能回忆起我所提到的这些人的行为和生活，这并不困难。尽管他们是伟大而了不起的人，但他们也是人，他们每个人都没有比现在提供的机会更多的机会，因为他们的事业既不比这更公正，也不比这更容易，上帝也不是他们的朋友，而不是你的事业。 。

[*] Giuliano de Medici. He had just been created a cardinal by Leo X. In 1523 Giuliano was elected Pope, and took the title of Clement VII.
[*]朱利亚诺·德·美第奇。他刚刚被利奥十世任命为红衣主教。1523年，朱利亚诺当选教皇，并获得克莱门特七世的头衔。

With us there is great justice, because that war is just which is necessary, and arms are hallowed when there is no other hope but in them. Here there is the greatest willingness, and where the willingness is great the difficulties cannot be great if you will only follow those men to whom I have directed your attention. Further than this, how extraordinarily the ways of God have been manifested beyond example: the sea is divided, a cloud has led the way, the rock has poured forth water, it has rained manna, everything has contributed to your greatness; you ought to do the rest. God is not willing to do everything, and thus take away our free will and that share of glory which belongs to us.
对我们来说，存在着伟大的正义，因为战争是正义的，这是必要的，当除了武器之外没有其他希望时，武器就被神圣化了。这里有最大的意愿，而在意愿很大的地方，如果你只追随我所关注的那些人，那么困难就不会很大。除此之外，上帝的道路是如何非凡地显现出来的：大海被分开，云彩带路，岩石倾倒水，降下吗哪雨，一切都促成了你的伟大；剩下的事情你应该做。神不愿意做一切事，从而夺走我们的自由意志和属于我们的那份荣耀。

And it is not to be wondered at if none of the above-named Italians have been able to accomplish all that is expected from your illustrious house; and if in so many revolutions in Italy, and in so many campaigns, it has always appeared as if military virtue were exhausted, this has happened because the old order of things was not good, and none of us have known how to find a new one. And nothing honours a man more than to establish new laws and new ordinances when he himself was newly risen. Such things when they are well founded and dignified will make him revered and admired, and in Italy there are not wanting opportunities to bring such into use in every form.
如果上述意大利人都未能实现您显赫的家族所期望的一切，那就不足为奇了。如果说在意大利的这么多次革命和这么多次战役中，军事美德总是显得疲惫不堪，那么这种情况的发生是因为旧的秩序并不好，我们谁也不知道如何找到新的秩序。一。没有什么比一个人刚崛起时制定新的法律和新的法令更值得尊敬的了。当这些事情有充分的根据和尊严时，他就会受到尊敬和钦佩，而在意大利，人们不希望有机会以各种形式运用这些东西。

Here there is great valour in the limbs whilst it fails in the head. Look attentively at the duels and the hand-to-hand combats, how superior the Italians are in strength, dexterity, and subtlety. But when it comes to armies they do not bear comparison, and this springs entirely from the insufficiency of the leaders, since those who are capable are not obedient, and each one seems to himself to know, there having never been any one so distinguished above the rest, either by valour or fortune, that others would yield to him. Hence it is that for so long a time, and during so much fighting in the past twenty years, whenever there has been an army wholly Italian, it has always given a poor account of itself; the first witness to this is Il Taro, afterwards Allesandria, Capua, Genoa, Vaila, Bologna, Mestri.[*]
在这里，四肢有巨大的勇气，而头部却失败了。仔细观察决斗和肉搏战，意大利人的力量、灵巧和狡猾是多么的优越。但说到军队，就无法相比了，这完全是领导者的不足，有能力的人不服从，每个人都知道，从来没有一个人比这更优秀。其余的，无论是靠勇气还是财富，其他人都会屈服于他。因此，在这么长的时间里，在过去二十年的那么多战斗中，每当有一支完全是意大利人的军队时，它总是给自己留下不好的印象；第一个见证这一点的是 Il Taro，随后是 Allesandria、Capua、Genoa、Vaila、Bologna、Mestri。[*]

[*] The battles of Il Taro, 1495; Alessandria, 1499; Capua, 1501; Genoa, 1507; Vaila, 1509; Bologna, 1511; Mestri, 1513.
[*] 伊尔塔罗之战，1495；亚历山德里亚，1499；卡普阿，1501；热那亚，1507；瓦伊拉，1509；博洛尼亚，1511；梅斯特里，1513 年。

If, therefore, your illustrious house wishes to follow these remarkable men who have redeemed their country, it is necessary before all things, as a true foundation for every enterprise, to be provided with your own forces, because there can be no more faithful, truer, or better soldiers. And although singly they are good, altogether they will be much better when they find themselves commanded by their prince, honoured by him, and maintained at his expense. Therefore it is necessary to be prepared with such arms, so that you can be defended against foreigners by Italian valour.
因此，如果您的显赫家族希望追随这些拯救国家的杰出人物，那么首先就必须配备自己的力量，作为每一项事业的真正基础，因为没有比这更忠诚的人了，更真实，或更优秀的士兵。虽然他们单独来看是好的，但当他们发现自己受到君主的指挥、受到他的尊敬、并以他的费用维持时，总的来说，他们会更好。因此，有必要准备这样的武器，这样您才能以意大利人的勇气抵御外国人。

And although Swiss and Spanish infantry may be considered very formidable, nevertheless there is a defect in both, by reason of which a third order would not only be able to oppose them, but might be relied upon to overthrow them. For the Spaniards cannot resist cavalry, and the Switzers are afraid of infantry whenever they encounter them in close combat. Owing to this, as has been and may again be seen, the Spaniards are unable to resist French cavalry, and the Switzers are overthrown by Spanish infantry. And although a complete proof of this latter cannot be shown, nevertheless there was some evidence of it at the battle of Ravenna, when the Spanish infantry were confronted by German battalions, who follow the same tactics as the Swiss; when the Spaniards, by agility of body and with the aid of their shields, got in under the pikes of the Germans and stood out of danger, able to attack, while the Germans stood helpless, and, if the cavalry had not dashed up, all would have been over with them. It is possible, therefore, knowing the defects of both these infantries, to invent a new one, which will resist cavalry and not be afraid of infantry; this need not create a new order of arms, but a variation upon the old. And these are the kind of improvements which confer reputation and power upon a new prince.
尽管瑞士和西班牙步兵可能被认为非常强大，但两者都存在缺陷，因此第三个秩序不仅能够对抗他们，而且可能会被依赖来推翻他们。因为西班牙人无法抵抗骑兵，而瑞士人一遇到近战就害怕步兵。因此，正如过去和可能再次看到的那样，西班牙人无法抵抗法国骑兵，而瑞士人则被西班牙步兵推翻。尽管无法证明后者的完整证据，但在拉文纳战役中还是有一些证据，当时西班牙步兵遇到了采用与瑞士相同战术的德国营；当西班牙人凭借敏捷的身体和盾牌的帮助，进入德国人的长矛下并脱离危险，能够进攻时，而德国人则束手无策，如果骑兵没有冲上来，他们一切都会结束了。因此，在了解这两种步兵的缺陷的情况下，有可能发明一种新的步兵，它可以抵抗骑兵而不惧怕步兵。这不需要创建新的武器秩序，而是旧秩序的变体。这些改进可以为新王子带来声誉和权力。

This opportunity, therefore, ought not to be allowed to pass for letting Italy at last see her liberator appear. Nor can one express the love with which he would be received in all those provinces which have suffered so much from these foreign scourings, with what thirst for revenge, with what stubborn faith, with what devotion, with what tears. What door would be closed to him? Who would refuse obedience to him? What envy would hinder him? What Italian would refuse him homage? To all of us this barbarous dominion stinks. Let, therefore, your illustrious house take up this charge with that courage and hope with which all just enterprises are undertaken, so that under its standard our native country may be ennobled, and under its auspices may be verified that saying of Petrarch:
因此，不应该因为让意大利最终看到她的解放者出现而错过这个机会。也没有人能够表达他在那些遭受了外国掠夺之苦的省份所受到的爱，带着对复仇的渴望，带着坚定的信念，带着怎样的奉献，带着怎样的泪水。哪扇门会对他关闭？谁会拒绝服从他呢？什么样的嫉妒会阻碍他呢？哪个意大利人会拒绝向他致敬？对我们所有人来说，这个野蛮的统治都散发着恶臭。因此，让您显赫的家族带着一切正义事业所怀有的勇气和希望承担起这项责任，以便在它的标准下我们的祖国可以变得高贵，并在它的支持下可以验证彼特拉克的那句话：

Virtu contro al Furore Prendera l’arme, e fia il combatter corto: Che l’antico valore Negli italici cuor non e ancor morto.
Virtu contro al Furore Prendera l'arme，e fia ilfighter corto：Che l'antico valore Negli italici cuor non e ancor morto。

Virtue against fury shall advance the fight, And it i’ th’ combat soon shall put to flight: For the old Roman valour is not dead, Nor in th’ Italians’ brests extinguished.
对抗愤怒的美德将推动战斗，战斗很快就会消失：因为古老的罗马勇气并没有消亡，意大利人的胸膛也没有消失。

Edward Dacre, 1640.
爱德华·达克雷，1640。

DESCRIPTION OF THE METHODS ADOPTED BY THE DUKE VALENTINO WHEN MURDERING VITELLOZZO VITELLI, OLIVEROTTO DA FERMO, THE SIGNOR PAGOLO, AND THE DUKE DI GRAVINA ORSINI
瓦伦蒂诺公爵谋杀维泰洛佐·维泰利、奥利弗罗托·达·费尔莫、帕戈洛先生和迪·格拉维纳·奥尔西尼公爵时所用方法的描述

BY

NICOL MACHIAVELLI
尼科尔·马基雅维利

The Duke Valentino had returned from Lombardy, where he had been to clear himself with the King of France from the calumnies which had been raised against him by the Florentines concerning the rebellion of Arezzo and other towns in the Val di Chiana, and had arrived at Imola, whence he intended with his army to enter upon the campaign against Giovanni Bentivogli, the tyrant of Bologna: for he intended to bring that city under his domination, and to make it the head of his Romagnian duchy.
瓦伦蒂诺公爵从伦巴第回来，他在那里向法国国王澄清佛罗伦萨人对阿雷佐和基亚纳山谷其他城镇叛乱的诽谤。他打算率领军队从伊莫拉发起针对博洛尼亚暴君乔瓦尼·本蒂沃利的战役：因为他打算将这座城市置于自己的统治之下，并使其成为罗马尼亚公国的首领。

These matters coming to the knowledge of the Vitelli and Orsini and their following, it appeared to them that the duke would become too powerful, and it was feared that, having seized Bologna, he would seek to destroy them in order that he might become supreme in Italy. Upon this a meeting was called at Magione in the district of Perugia, to which came the cardinal, Pagolo, and the Duke di Gravina Orsini, Vitellozzo Vitelli, Oliverotto da Fermo, Gianpagolo Baglioni, the tyrant of Perugia, and Messer Antonio da Venafro, sent by Pandolfo Petrucci, the Prince of Siena. Here were discussed the power and courage of the duke and the necessity of curbing his ambitions, which might otherwise bring danger to the rest of being ruined. And they decided not to abandon the Bentivogli, but to strive to win over the Florentines; and they send their men to one place and another, promising to one party assistance and to another encouragement to unite with them against the common enemy. This meeting was at once reported throughout all Italy, and those who were discontented under the duke, among whom were the people of Urbino, took hope of effecting a revolution.
这些事情被维泰利和奥尔西尼家族及其追随者所知，他们认为公爵会变得过于强大，人们担心，在占领博洛尼亚后，他会寻求摧毁他们，以便自己成为至高无上的人。在意大利。随后，在佩鲁贾地区的马焦内召开了一次会议，出席会议的有红衣主教帕戈洛、格拉维纳·奥尔西尼公爵、维特洛佐·维泰利、奥利韦罗托·达·费尔莫、佩鲁贾暴君詹帕戈洛·巴廖尼以及安东尼奥·达·韦纳弗罗先生。由锡耶纳亲王潘道夫·彼得鲁奇派遣。这里讨论了公爵的权力和勇气以及遏制他的野心的必要性，否则可能会给其他人带来毁灭的危险。他们决定不放弃本蒂沃利家族，而是努力争取佛罗伦萨人；他们派人到一处又一处，向一方许诺提供援助，另一方则鼓励他们与他们联合起来对抗共同的敌人。这次会议立即传遍了整个意大利，那些对公爵统治不满的人，其中包括乌尔比诺人民，希望进行一场革命。

Thus it arose that, men’s minds being thus unsettled, it was decided by certain men of Urbino to seize the fortress of San Leo, which was held for the duke, and which they captured by the following means. The castellan was fortifying the rock and causing timber to be taken there; so the conspirators watched, and when certain beams which were being carried to the rock were upon the bridge, so that it was prevented from being drawn up by those inside, they took the opportunity of leaping upon the bridge and thence into the fortress. Upon this capture being effected, the whole state rebelled and recalled the old duke, being encouraged in this, not so much by the capture of the fort, as by the Diet at Magione, from whom they expected to get assistance.
因此，人们的思想如此不安，乌尔比诺的某些人决定夺取为公爵占领的圣莱奥要塞，并通过以下方式夺取了它。城主正在加固岩石，并把木材运到那里。密谋者们就这样看着，当某些被运到岩石上的横梁停在桥上时，为了防止里面的人把桥拉起来，他们趁机跳上桥，从那里跳进了堡垒。这次占领完成后，整个国家都叛乱并召回了老公爵，他们之所以这样做，与其说是因为占领了堡垒，不如说是因为马焦内议会的鼓励，他们希望从议会那里得到援助。

Those who heard of the rebellion at Urbino thought they would not lose the opportunity, and at once assembled their men so as to take any town, should any remain in the hands of the duke in that state; and they sent again to Florence to beg that republic to join with them in destroying the common firebrand, showing that the risk was lessened and that they ought not to wait for another opportunity.
那些听说乌尔比诺发生叛乱的人认为他们不会失去这个机会，并立即集结他们的人马，以占领任何城镇，只要该城镇仍掌握在该州公爵的手中。他们再次派人前往佛罗伦萨，恳求该共和国与他们一起消灭共同的煽动者，表明风险已经降低，他们不应该再等待机会。

But the Florentines, from hatred, for sundry reasons, of the Vitelli and Orsini, not only would not ally themselves, but sent Nicolo Machiavelli, their secretary, to offer shelter and assistance to the duke against his enemies. The duke was found full of fear at Imola, because, against everybody’s expectation, his soldiers had at once gone over to the enemy and he found himself disarmed and war at his door. But recovering courage from the offers of the Florentines, he decided to temporize before fighting with the few soldiers that remained to him, and to negotiate for a reconciliation, and also to get assistance. This latter he obtained in two ways, by sending to the King of France for men and by enlisting men-at-arms and others whom he turned into cavalry of a sort: to all he gave money.
但佛罗伦萨人出于对维泰利和奥尔西尼家族的种种仇恨，不仅不愿意结盟，反而派他们的秘书尼科洛·马基雅维利为公爵提供庇护和援助，以对抗他的敌人。公爵在伊莫拉被发现充满了恐惧，因为出乎所有人的意料，他的士兵立即投向了敌人，而他发现自己被解除了武装，战争就在他家门口。但从佛罗伦萨人的提议中恢复了勇气，他决定在与仅存的少数士兵战斗之前先暂时缓一缓，并通过谈判达成和解，并获得援助。他通过两种方式获得了后者，一是向法国国王派遣人员，二是招募武装人员和其他人，他把他们变成了某种骑兵：他向所有人提供金钱。

Notwithstanding this, his enemies drew near to him, and approached Fossombrone, where they encountered some men of the duke and, with the aid of the Orsini and Vitelli, routed them. When this happened, the duke resolved at once to see if he could not close the trouble with offers of reconciliation, and being a most perfect dissembler he did not fail in any practices to make the insurgents understand that he wished every man who had acquired anything to keep it, as it was enough for him to have the title of prince, whilst others might have the principality.
尽管如此，他的敌人还是逼近了他，逼近福松布罗内，在那里他们遇到了公爵的一些人，并在奥尔西尼和维泰利的帮助下击溃了他们。当这种情况发生时，公爵立即决定看看他是否可以通过提出和解来结束麻烦，作为一个最完美的伪装者，他不遗余力地让叛乱分子明白，他希望每个获得任何东西的人保留它，因为他有王子的头衔就足够了，而其他人可能有公国。

And the duke succeeded so well in this that they sent Signor Pagolo to him to negotiate for a reconciliation, and they brought their army to a standstill. But the duke did not stop his preparations, and took every care to provide himself with cavalry and infantry, and that such preparations might not be apparent to the others, he sent his troops in separate parties to every part of the Romagna. In the meanwhile there came also to him five hundred French lancers, and although he found himself sufficiently strong to take vengeance on his enemies in open war, he considered that it would be safer and more advantageous to outwit them, and for this reason he did not stop the work of reconciliation.
公爵在这方面取得了巨大的成功，以至于他们派帕戈洛先生去找他谈判和解，他们的军队陷入了停滞。但公爵并没有停止他的准备工作，他非常小心地为自己配备了骑兵和步兵，而且为了避免其他人察觉到这些准备工作，他将军队分批派往罗马涅各地。与此同时，还有五百名法国枪骑兵来到了他身边，尽管他发现自己足够强大，可以在公开战争中向敌人报仇，但他认为智取他们会更安全、更有利，因此他这样做了不得停止和解工作。

And that this might be effected the duke concluded a peace with them in which he confirmed their former covenants; he gave them four thousand ducats at once; he promised not to injure the Bentivogli; and he formed an alliance with Giovanni; and moreover he would not force them to come personally into his presence unless it pleased them to do so. On the other hand, they promised to restore to him the duchy of Urbino and other places seized by them, to serve him in all his expeditions, and not to make war against or ally themselves with any one without his permission.
为了实现这一目标，公爵与他们缔结了和约，确认了他们以前的盟约。他立刻给了他们四千金币。他保证不会伤害本蒂沃利一家。他与乔凡尼结盟。此外，除非他们愿意，否则他不会强迫他们亲自到他面前。另一方面，他们承诺将乌尔比诺公国和他们占领的其他地方归还给他，在他的所有远征中为他服务，未经他的许可，不会与任何人作战或结盟。

This reconciliation being completed, Guido Ubaldo, the Duke of Urbino, again fled to Venice, having first destroyed all the fortresses in his state; because, trusting in the people, he did not wish that the fortresses, which he did not think he could defend, should be held by the enemy, since by these means a check would be kept upon his friends. But the Duke Valentino, having completed this convention, and dispersed his men throughout the Romagna, set out for Imola at the end of November together with his French men-at-arms: thence he went to Cesena, where he stayed some time to negotiate with the envoys of the Vitelli and Orsini, who had assembled with their men in the duchy of Urbino, as to the enterprise in which they should now take part; but nothing being concluded, Oliverotto da Fermo was sent to propose that if the duke wished to undertake an expedition against Tuscany they were ready; if he did not wish it, then they would besiege Sinigalia. To this the duke replied that he did not wish to enter into war with Tuscany, and thus become hostile to the Florentines, but that he was very willing to proceed against Sinigalia.
和解完成后，乌尔比诺公爵吉多·乌巴尔多再次逃往威尼斯，首先摧毁了他的国家的所有堡垒；因为，他信任人民，不希望他认为自己无法保卫的堡垒被敌人占领，因为通过这种方式可以对他的朋友进行制衡。但瓦伦蒂诺公爵在完成这次会议后，将他的军队分散到整个罗马涅地区，并于11月底与他的法国武装人员一起出发前往伊莫拉：从那里他去了切塞纳，在那里停留了一段时间进行谈判与维泰利和奥尔西尼的使者会面，他们与他们的人在乌尔比诺公国聚集，讨论他们现在应该参加的事业；但没有得出任何结论，奥利韦罗托·达·费尔莫被派去建议，如果公爵希望远征托斯卡纳，他们已经做好了准备。如果他不愿意，他们就会围攻西尼加利亚。对此，公爵回答说，他不想与托斯卡纳交战，从而与佛罗伦萨人敌对，但他非常愿意进攻西尼加利亚。

It happened that not long afterwards the town surrendered, but the fortress would not yield to them because the castellan would not give it up to any one but the duke in person; therefore they exhorted him to come there. This appeared a good opportunity to the duke, as, being invited by them, and not going of his own will, he would awaken no suspicions. And the more to reassure them, he allowed all the French men-at-arms who were with him in Lombardy to depart, except the hundred lancers under Mons. di Candales, his brother-in-law. He left Cesena about the middle of December, and went to Fano, and with the utmost cunning and cleverness he persuaded the Vitelli and Orsini to wait for him at Sinigalia, pointing out to them that any lack of compliance would cast a doubt upon the sincerity and permanency of the reconciliation, and that he was a man who wished to make use of the arms and councils of his friends. But Vitellozzo remained very stubborn, for the death of his brother warned him that he should not offend a prince and afterwards trust him; nevertheless, persuaded by Pagolo Orsini, whom the duke had corrupted with gifts and promises, he agreed to wait.
碰巧不久之后，城镇就投降了，但要塞却不肯向他们屈服，因为除了公爵本人之外，城主不会把它交给任何人。因此他们劝他到那里去。这对公爵来说似乎是一个好机会，因为他是受到他们的邀请，而不是自愿去的，不会引起任何怀疑。为了让他们放心，他允许所有跟随他在伦巴第的法国士兵离开，除了蒙斯麾下的一百名枪骑兵。迪·坎达莱斯，他的妹夫。 12月中旬，他离开切塞纳，前往法诺，以极其狡猾和聪明的方式说服了维泰利和奥尔西尼一家在西尼加利亚等他，并向他们指出，任何不服从的行为都会使人对他的诚意产生怀疑。以及和解的持久性，而且他是一个希望利用朋友的武器和议会的人。但维特洛佐仍然非常固执，因为他哥哥的死警告他不应该冒犯王子，然后再信任他；尽管如此，在公爵用礼物和承诺腐蚀的帕戈洛·奥尔西尼的说服下，他同意等待。

Upon this the duke, before his departure from Fano, which was to be on 30th December 1502, communicated his designs to eight of his most trusted followers, among whom were Don Michele and the Monsignor d’Euna, who was afterwards cardinal; and he ordered that, as soon as Vitellozzo, Pagolo Orsini, the Duke di Gravina, and Oliverotto should arrive, his followers in pairs should take them one by one, entrusting certain men to certain pairs, who should entertain them until they reached Sinigalia; nor should they be permitted to leave until they came to the duke’s quarters, where they should be seized.
据此，公爵于 1502 年 12 月 30 日离开法诺之前，将他的计划传达给了八位他最信任的追随者，其中包括唐·米歇尔和后来成为红衣主教的德尤纳主教。他命令，维特洛佐、帕戈洛·奥尔西尼、格拉维纳公爵和奥利维罗托一到，他的追随者就成对地把他们一一带走，把某些人托付给某些成对的人，由他们招待他们，直到他们到达西尼加利亚。也不准他们离开，直到他们到达公爵的住处，在那里他们应该被逮捕。

The duke afterwards ordered all his horsemen and infantry, of which there were more than two thousand cavalry and ten thousand footmen, to assemble by daybreak at the Metauro, a river five miles distant from Fano, and await him there. He found himself, therefore, on the last day of December at the Metauro with his men, and having sent a cavalcade of about two hundred horsemen before him, he then moved forward the infantry, whom he accompanied with the rest of the men-atarms.
公爵随后命令他的所有骑兵和步兵，其中有两千多名骑兵和一万名步兵，天一亮就在距离法诺五英里的梅塔罗河集合，在那里等待他。因此，他在十二月的最后一天与他的部下在梅塔罗，在他前面派遣了一支大约有两百名骑兵的骑兵队，然后他率领步兵前进，并与其余的重装兵一起护送。 。

Fano and Sinigalia are two cities of La Marca situate on the shore of the Adriatic Sea, fifteen miles distant from each other, so that he who goes towards Sinigalia has the mountains on his right hand, the bases of which are touched by the sea in some places. The city of Sinigalia is distant from the foot of the mountains a little more than a bow-shot and from the shore about a mile. On the side opposite to the city runs a little river which bathes that part of the walls looking towards Fano, facing the high road. Thus he who draws near to Sinigalia comes for a good space by road along the mountains, and reaches the river which passes by Sinigalia. If he turns to his left hand along the bank of it, and goes for the distance of a bow-shot, he arrives at a bridge which crosses the river; he is then almost abreast of the gate that leads into Sinigalia, not by a straight line, but transversely. Before this gate there stands a collection of houses with a square to which the bank of the river forms one side.
法诺和西尼加利亚是拉马卡的两座城市，位于亚得里亚海沿岸，相距十五英里，因此前往西尼加利亚的人右手边就是山脉，山脚与大海相连有一些地方。西尼加利亚市距山脚仅一箭多一点，距海岸约一英里。在城市对面的一侧流淌着一条小河，它沐浴着面向法诺、面向公路的那部分城墙。因此，接近西尼加利亚的人会沿着山路走一段好路，到达经过西尼加利亚的河流。如果他把左手沿河岸转过去，射出一箭的距离，就到了一座过河的桥。然后他几乎与通往西尼加利亚的大门并排，不是直线，而是横向。门前矗立着一座座房屋，房屋呈方形，一侧是河岸。

The Vitelli and Orsini having received orders to wait for the duke, and to honour him in person, sent away their men to several castles distant from Sinigalia about six miles, so that room could be made for the men of the duke; and they left in Sinigalia only Oliverotto and his band, which consisted of one thousand infantry and one hundred and fifty horsemen, who were quartered in the suburb mentioned above. Matters having been thus arranged, the Duke Valentino left for Sinigalia, and when the leaders of the cavalry reached the bridge they did not pass over, but having opened it, one portion wheeled towards the river and the other towards the country, and a way was left in the middle through which the infantry passed, without stopping, into the town.
维泰利和奥尔西尼接到命令等待公爵并亲自向他致敬后，将他们的部下派往距离西尼加利亚约六英里的几座城堡，以便为公爵的部下腾出空间。他们在西尼加利亚留下了奥利维罗托和他的队伍，其中包括一千名步兵和一百五十名骑兵，他们驻扎在上述郊区。事情就这样安排好了，瓦伦蒂诺公爵动身前往西尼加利亚，当骑兵首领到达桥上时，他们并没有过去，而是打开了桥，一部分驶向河流，另一部分驶向乡村，一条路步兵从中间穿过，不停歇地进入城镇。

Vitellozzo, Pagolo, and the Duke di Gravina on mules, accompanied by a few horsemen, went towards the duke; Vitellozo, unarmed and wearing a cape lined with green, appeared very dejected, as if conscious of his approaching death—a circumstance which, in view of the ability of the man and his former fortune, caused some amazement. And it is said that when he parted from his men before setting out for Sinigalia to meet the duke he acted as if it were his last parting from them. He recommended his house and its fortunes to his captains, and advised his nephews that it was not the fortune of their house, but the virtues of their fathers that should be kept in mind. These three, therefore, came before the duke and saluted him respectfully, and were received by him with goodwill; they were at once placed between those who were commissioned to look after them.
维特洛佐、帕戈洛和格拉维纳公爵骑着骡子，在几名骑兵的陪同下，朝公爵走去。维泰洛佐手无寸铁，穿着一件绿色斗篷，显得非常沮丧，似乎意识到自己即将死亡——考虑到这个人的能力和他以前的财富，这种情况引起了一些惊讶。据说，当他在出发前往西尼加利亚与公爵会面之前与他的部下告别时，他表现得好像这是他与他们最后一次分别。他向他的首领推荐了他的家族及其财富，并建议他的侄子们，应该牢记的不是他们家族的财富，而是他们父亲的美德。于是，三人来到了公爵面前，恭敬行礼，受到了公爵的热情接待。他们立即被安置在受委托照顾他们的人中间。

But the duke noticing that Oliverotto, who had remained with his band in Sinigalia, was missing—for Oliverotto was waiting in the square before his quarters near the river, keeping his men in order and drilling them—signalled with his eye to Don Michelle, to whom the care of Oliverotto had been committed, that he should take measures that Oliverotto should not escape. Therefore Don Michele rode off and joined Oliverotto, telling him that it was not right to keep his men out of their quarters, because these might be taken up by the men of the duke; and he advised him to send them at once to their quarters and to come himself to meet the duke. And Oliverotto, having taken this advice, came before the duke, who, when he saw him, called to him; and Oliverotto, having made his obeisance, joined the others.
但是公爵注意到留在西尼加利亚的奥利罗托失踪了——因为奥利罗托正在河边住所前的广场上等待着，让他的部下保持秩序并训练他们——他用眼睛向唐·米歇尔示意：奥利韦罗托的照顾已交给他，他应采取措施防止奥利韦罗逃脱。于是唐·米歇尔骑马离开并与奥利维罗托会合，告诉他不让他的人进入他们的住处是不对的，因为这些人可能会被公爵的人占领。他建议他立即送他们回住处，并亲自去见公爵。奥利罗托接受了这个建议，来到公爵面前，公爵一看到他，就向他招呼。奥利维罗托行了一礼之后，也加入了其他人的行列。

So the whole party entered Sinigalia, dismounted at the duke’s quarters, and went with him into a secret chamber, where the duke made them prisoners; he then mounted on horseback, and issued orders that the men of Oliverotto and the Orsini should be stripped of their arms. Those of Oliverotto, being at hand, were quickly settled, but those of the Orsini and Vitelli, being at a distance, and having a presentiment of the destruction of their masters, had time to prepare themselves, and bearing in mind the valour and discipline of the Orsinian and Vitellian houses, they stood together against the hostile forces of the country and saved themselves.
于是，一行人进入了西尼加利亚，在公爵的住所下马，和他一起进入一间密室，公爵把他们囚禁在那里。然后他骑上马，下令剥夺奥利罗托和奥尔西尼人的武器。奥利罗托家族的人就在附近，很快就安顿下来，但奥尔西尼家族和维泰利家族的人距离较远，预感到他们的主人会被毁灭，因此有时间做好准备，并牢记英勇和纪律。奥辛尼安家族和维泰利安家族的他们团结起来对抗国家的敌对势力并拯救了自己。

But the duke’s soldiers, not being content with having pillaged the men of Oliverotto, began to sack Sinigalia, and if the duke had not repressed this outrage by killing some of them they would have completely sacked it. Night having come and the tumult being silenced, the duke prepared to kill Vitellozzo and Oliverotto; he led them into a room and caused them to be strangled. Neither of them used words in keeping with their past lives: Vitellozzo prayed that he might ask of the pope full pardon for his sins; Oliverotto cringed and laid the blame for all injuries against the duke on Vitellozzo. Pagolo and the Duke di Gravina Orsini were kept alive until the duke heard from Rome that the pope had taken the Cardinal Orsino, the Archbishop of Florence, and Messer Jacopo da Santa Croce. After which news, on 18th January 1502, in the castle of Pieve, they also were strangled in the same way.
但是公爵的士兵们并不满足于掠夺了奥利韦罗托的人民，开始洗劫西尼加利亚，如果公爵没有杀死一些士兵来平息这种愤怒，他们就会彻底洗劫西尼加利亚。夜幕降临，骚乱平息后，公爵准备杀死维泰洛佐和奥利韦罗托。他把他们带进一个房间并勒死他们。他们俩都没有使用与他们过去的生活相符的言语：维特洛佐祈祷他可以请求教皇完全赦免他的罪孽；奥利罗托感到畏缩，并将公爵的所有伤害归咎于维特洛佐。帕戈洛和格拉维纳·奥尔西尼公爵一直活着，直到公爵从罗马得知教皇带走了红衣主教奥尔西诺、佛罗伦萨大主教和雅各布·达·圣十字先生。此后，1502年1月18日，在皮耶韦城堡，他们也被以同样的方式勒死。

THE LIFE OF CASTRUCCIO CASTRACANI OF LUCCA
卢卡的卡斯特鲁乔·卡斯特拉卡尼的一生

WRITTEN BY NICOLO MACHIAVELLI
尼科洛·马基雅维利 编剧

And sent to his friends ZANOBI BUONDELMONTI And LUIGI ALAMANNI
并发送给他的朋友 ZANOBI BUONDELMONTI 和 LUIGI ALAMANNI

CASTRUCCIO CASTRACANI 1284-1328
卡斯特鲁乔·卡斯特拉卡尼 1284-1328

It appears, dearest Zanobi and Luigi, a wonderful thing to those who have considered the matter, that all men, or the larger number of them, who have performed great deeds in the world, and excelled all others in their day, have had their birth and beginning in baseness and obscurity; or have been aggrieved by Fortune in some outrageous way. They have either been exposed to the mercy of wild beasts, or they have had so mean a parentage that in shame they have given themselves out to be sons of Jove or of some other deity. It would be wearisome to relate who these persons may have been because they are well known to everybody, and, as such tales would not be particularly edifying to those who read them, they are omitted. I believe that these lowly beginnings of great men occur because Fortune is desirous of showing to the world that such men owe much to her and little to wisdom, because she begins to show her hand when wisdom can really take no part in their career: thus all success must be attributed to her. Castruccio Castracani of Lucca was one of those men who did great deeds, if he is measured by the times in which he lived and the city in which he was born; but, like many others, he was neither fortunate nor distinguished in his birth, as the course of this history will show. It appeared to be desirable to recall his memory, because I have discerned in him such indications of valour and fortune as should make him a great exemplar to men. I think also that I ought to call your attention to his actions, because you of all men I know delight most in noble deeds.
最亲爱的扎诺比和路易吉，对于那些思考过这个问题的人来说，这似乎是一件奇妙的事情，所有在世界上做出过伟大事迹并超越了当时所有其他人的人，或者说他们中的大多数人，都拥有自己的天赋。诞生和开始是卑鄙和默默无闻的；或者以某种令人愤慨的方式受到《财富》的侵害。他们要么受到野兽的怜悯，要么出身卑微，以至于羞愧地承认自己是朱庇特或其他神的儿子。叙述这些人可能是谁是很乏味的，因为他们是众所周知的，而且，由于这些故事对读过它们的人来说不会特别有启发，所以它们被省略了。我相信，这些伟人的出身卑微，是因为命运渴望向世人表明，这些人对她的贡献很大，而对智慧的贡献却很少，因为当智慧真正无法参与他们的事业时，她开始伸出援手：因此所有的成功都必须归功于她。如果以他生活的时代和出生的城市来衡量的话，卢卡的卡斯特鲁乔·卡斯特拉卡尼就是那些做出了伟大事迹的人之一。但是，像许多其他人一样，他的出生既不幸运也不杰出，正如这段历史的进程所表明的那样。回忆起他的记忆似乎是可取的，因为我在他身上看到了勇气和财富的迹象，这应该使他成为人类的伟大典范。我还认为我应该让你注意他的行为，因为在我认识的所有人中，你最喜欢高尚的行为。

The family of Castracani was formerly numbered among the noble families of Lucca, but in the days of which I speak it had somewhat fallen in estate, as so often happens in this world. To this family was born a son Antonio, who became a priest of the order of San Michele of Lucca, and for this reason was honoured with the title of Messer Antonio. He had an only sister, who had been married to Buonaccorso Cenami, but Buonaccorso dying she became a widow, and not wishing to marry again went to live with her brother. Messer Antonio had a vineyard behind the house where he resided, and as it was bounded on all sides by gardens, any person could have access to it without difficulty. One morning, shortly after sunrise, Madonna Dianora, as the sister of Messer Antonio was called, had occasion to go into the vineyard as usual to gather herbs for seasoning the dinner, and hearing a slight rustling among the leaves of a vine she turned her eyes in that direction, and heard something resembling the cry of an infant. Whereupon she went towards it, and saw the hands and face of a baby who was lying enveloped in the leaves and who seemed to be crying for its mother. Partly wondering and partly fearing, yet full of compassion, she lifted it up and carried it to the house, where she washed it and clothed it with clean linen as is customary, and showed it to Messer Antonio when he returned home. When he heard what had happened and saw the child he was not less surprised or compassionate than his sister. They discussed between themselves what should be done, and seeing that he was priest and that she had no children, they finally determined to bring it up. They had a nurse for it, and it was reared and loved as if it were their own child. They baptized it, and gave it the name of Castruccio after their father. As the years passed Castruccio grew very handsome, and gave evidence of wit and discretion, and learnt with a quickness beyond his years those lessons which Messer Antonio imparted to him. Messer Antonio intended to make a priest of him, and in time would have inducted him into his canonry and other benefices, and all his instruction was given with this object; but Antonio discovered that the character of Castruccio was quite unfitted for the priesthood. As soon as Castruccio reached the age of fourteen he began to take less notice of the chiding of Messer Antonio and Madonna Dianora and no longer to fear them; he left off reading ecclesiastical books, and turned to playing with arms, delighting in nothing so much as in learning their uses, and in running, leaping, and wrestling with other boys. In all exercises he far excelled his companions in courage and bodily strength, and if at any time he did turn to books, only those pleased him which told of wars and the mighty deeds of men. Messer Antonio beheld all this with vexation and sorrow.
卡斯特拉卡尼家族以前被列为卢卡的贵族家族，但在我所说的那些日子里，它的地位有所下降，就像这个世界上经常发生的那样。这个家庭生了一个儿子安东尼奥，他成为卢卡圣米歇尔勋章的牧师，并因此被授予安东尼奥先生的称号。他有一个唯一的妹妹，嫁给了布纳科索·塞纳米（Buonaccorso Cenami），但布纳科索临死后，她成了寡妇，不想再结婚，就和她的兄弟住在一起。安东尼奥先生在他居住的房子后面有一个葡萄园，由于它的四面都是花园，所以任何人都可以毫无困难地进入它。一天早晨，日出后不久，安东尼奥先生的妹妹麦当娜·黛诺拉（Madonna Dianora）有机会像往常一样走进葡萄园，采摘为晚餐调味的香草，听到藤蔓叶子间有轻微的沙沙声，她把藤蔓翻了过来。目光转向那个方向，听到了类似婴儿哭声的声音。于是她走过去，看到了一个婴儿的手和脸，躺在树叶里，似乎在哭喊着妈妈。她半是惊奇，半是害怕，但又充满同情心，她把它举起来，带进屋里，按照惯例清洗它，用干净的亚麻布穿上它，当安东尼奥先生回家时，把它拿给他看。当他听到发生的事情并看到孩子时，他的惊讶和同情并不亚于他的妹妹。他们商量了一下该怎么办，见他是神父，而她又没有孩子，最后决定提出来。他们为它配备了一名护士，并像对待自己的孩子一样抚养和爱护它。 他们给它施洗，并以他们父亲的名字给它命名为卡斯特鲁乔。随着时间的流逝，卡斯特鲁乔变得非常英俊，表现出机智和谨慎，并以超出他年龄的速度学会了安东尼奥先生传授给他的那些教训。安东尼奥先生打算任命他为牧师，并及时将他纳入教士和其他圣职，他的所有指示都是为了这个目的。但安东尼奥发现卡斯特鲁乔的性格完全不适合担任牧师。卡斯特鲁乔一到十四岁，他就开始不太在意安东尼奥先生和麦当娜·黛诺拉的责骂，也不再害怕他们；他不再读教会书籍，而是开始玩武器，最感兴趣的莫过于学习武器的用途，以及与其他男孩一起奔跑、跳跃和摔跤。在所有的练习中，他的勇气和体力都远远超过了他的同伴，如果他在任何时候确实求助于书籍，那么他只喜欢那些讲述战争和人类伟大事迹的书籍。安东尼奥先生看着这一切，既烦恼又悲伤。

There lived in the city of Lucca a gentleman of the Guinigi family, named Messer Francesco, whose profession was arms and who in riches, bodily strength, and valour excelled all other men in Lucca. He had often fought under the command of the Visconti of Milan, and as a Ghibelline was the valued leader of that party in Lucca. This gentleman resided in Lucca and was accustomed to assemble with others most mornings and evenings under the balcony of the Podesta, which is at the top of the square of San Michele, the finest square in Lucca, and he had often seen Castruccio taking part with other children of the street in those games of which I have spoken. Noticing that Castruccio far excelled the other boys, and that he appeared to exercise a royal authority over them, and that they loved and obeyed him, Messer Francesco became greatly desirous of learning who he was. Being informed of the circumstances of the bringing up of Castruccio he felt a greater desire to have him near to him. Therefore he called him one day and asked him whether he would more willingly live in the house of a gentleman, where he would learn to ride horses and use arms, or in the house of a priest, where he would learn nothing but masses and the services of the Church. Messer Francesco could see that it pleased Castruccio greatly to hear horses and arms spoken of, even though he stood silent, blushing modestly; but being encouraged by Messer Francesco to speak, he answered that, if his master were agreeable, nothing would please him more than to give up his priestly studies and take up those of a soldier. This reply delighted Messer Francesco, and in a very short time he obtained the consent of Messer Antonio, who was driven to yield by his knowledge of the nature of the lad, and the fear that he would not be able to hold him much longer.
卢卡城里住着一位吉尼吉家族的绅士，名叫梅塞尔·弗朗切斯科，他的职业是武器，他在财富、体力和勇气方面都超过了卢卡的所有其他人。他经常在米兰维斯康蒂的指挥下作战，作为吉伯林党人，他是卢卡该党的重要领导人。这位先生住在卢卡，习惯于大多数早晚都在波德斯塔的阳台下与其他人聚会，波德斯塔位于卢卡最好的广场圣米歇尔广场的顶部，他经常看到卡斯特鲁乔与其他人一起参加聚会。街上的其他孩子也参与了我所说的那些游戏。弗朗西斯科先生注意到卡斯特鲁乔远远胜过其他男孩，而且他似乎对他们行使着王室权威，而且他们爱他并服从他，弗朗西斯科先生非常想知道他是谁。当得知卡斯特鲁乔的成长经历后，他更加渴望让他靠近自己。因此有一天，他打电话给他，问他是否更愿意住在绅士家里，在那里他可以学习骑马和使用武器，或者住在牧师家里，在那里他除了弥撒和祈祷之外什么也学不到。教会的服务。弗朗西斯科先生看得出来，卡斯特鲁乔听到人们谈论马匹和武器时非常高兴，尽管他沉默地站着，谦虚地脸红了。但在弗朗切斯科先生的鼓励下，他回答说，如果他的主人同意的话，没有什么比放弃他的牧师学业并接受士兵的学业更让他高兴的了。 这个答复让弗朗西斯科先生很高兴，很快他就得到了安东尼奥先生的同意，安东尼奥先生因为了解这个小伙子的本性而被迫屈服，而且担心自己无法再留住他太久。

Thus Castruccio passed from the house of Messer Antonio the priest to the house of Messer Francesco Guinigi the soldier, and it was astonishing to find that in a very short time he manifested all that virtue and bearing which we are accustomed to associate with a true gentleman. In the first place he became an accomplished horseman, and could manage with ease the most fiery charger, and in all jousts and tournaments, although still a youth, he was observed beyond all others, and he excelled in all exercises of strength and dexterity. But what enhanced so much the charm of these accomplishments, was the delightful modesty which enabled him to avoid offence in either act or word to others, for he was deferential to the great men, modest with his equals, and courteous to his inferiors. These gifts made him beloved, not only by all the Guinigi family, but by all Lucca. When Castruccio had reached his eighteenth year, the Ghibellines were driven from Pavia by the Guelphs, and Messer Francesco was sent by the Visconti to assist the Ghibellines, and with him went Castruccio, in charge of his forces. Castruccio gave ample proof of his prudence and courage in this expedition, acquiring greater reputation than any other captain, and his name and fame were known, not only in Pavia, but throughout all Lombardy.
就这样，卡斯特鲁乔从神父安东尼奥先生的家转到了士兵弗朗切斯科·吉尼吉先生的家，令人惊讶的是，他在很短的时间内就表现出了我们习惯于与真正的绅士联系在一起的所有美德和风度。 。首先，他成为了一名出色的骑手，可以轻松地驾驭最猛烈的战马，在所有的比武和锦标赛中，尽管他还是个年轻人，但他的观察力却超出了其他所有人，并且他在所有力量和敏捷性的练习中都表现出色。但使这些成就的魅力大大增强的是令人愉快的谦虚，这使他能够避免在言行上冒犯他人，因为他对伟人恭敬，对同辈谦虚，对下辈谦虚。这些礼物使他不仅受到整个吉尼吉家族的喜爱，而且受到整个卢卡人的喜爱。当卡斯特鲁乔年满十八岁时，吉伯林党被圭尔夫派逐出帕维亚，维斯康蒂派派弗朗西斯科梅塞尔前往协助吉伯林党，卡斯特鲁乔随同他一起指挥他的军队。卡斯特鲁乔在这次远征中充分证明了他的谨慎和勇气，获得了比任何其他船长更大的声誉，他的名字和名声不仅在帕维亚，而且在整个伦巴第大区都广为人知。

Castruccio, having returned to Lucca in far higher estimation that he left it, did not omit to use all the means in his power to gain as many friends as he could, neglecting none of those arts which are necessary for that purpose. About this time Messer Francesco died, leaving a son thirteen years of age named Pagolo, and having appointed Castruccio to be his son’s tutor and administrator of his estate. Before he died Francesco called Castruccio to him, and prayed him to show Pagolo that goodwill which he (Francesco) had always shown to HIM, and to render to the son the gratitude which he had not been able to repay to the father. Upon the death of Francesco, Castruccio became the governor and tutor of Pagolo, which increased enormously his power and position, and created a certain amount of envy against him in Lucca in place of the former universal goodwill, for many men suspected him of harbouring tyrannical intentions. Among these the leading man was Giorgio degli Opizi, the head of the Guelph party. This man hoped after the death of Messer Francesco to become the chief man in Lucca, but it seemed to him that Castruccio, with the great abilities which he already showed, and holding the position of governor, deprived him of his opportunity; therefore he began to sow those seeds which should rob Castruccio of his eminence. Castruccio at first treated this with scorn, but afterwards he grew alarmed, thinking that Messer Giorgio might be able to bring him into disgrace with the deputy of King Ruberto of Naples and have him driven out of Lucca.
卡斯特鲁乔回到卢卡后，对他离开卢卡的评价要高得多，他并没有忘记使用他力所能及的一切手段来赢得尽可能多的朋友，没有忽视为此目的所必需的任何艺术。大约在这个时候，弗朗西斯科先生去世了，留下了一个十三岁的儿子，名叫帕戈洛，并任命卡斯特鲁乔为他儿子的家庭教师和他的财产的管理者。在他去世之前，弗朗西斯科把卡斯特鲁乔叫到了他身边，祈求他向帕戈洛展示他（弗朗西斯科）一直以来对他表现出的善意，并向儿子转达他未能报答父亲的感激之情。弗朗西斯科去世后，卡斯特鲁乔成为帕戈洛的总督和导师，这极大地增加了他的权力和地位，并在卢卡引起了一定程度的嫉妒，取代了以前普遍的善意，因为许多人怀疑他窝藏暴虐。意图。其中的领军人物是圭尔夫党领袖乔治·德利·奥皮齐 (Giorgio degli Opizi)。这个人希望在弗朗西斯科先生去世后成为卢卡的首领，但在他看来，卡斯特鲁乔凭借他已经表现出的强大能力并担任总督，剥夺了他的机会；因此，他开始播下那些将剥夺卡斯特鲁乔的显赫地位的种子。卡斯特鲁乔起初对此嗤之以鼻，但后来他感到震惊，认为乔治先生可能会让他在那不勒斯国王鲁贝托的副手面前蒙羞，并将他赶出卢卡。

The Lord of Pisa at that time was Uguccione of the Faggiuola of Arezzo, who being in the first place elected their captain afterwards became their lord. There resided in Paris some exiled Ghibellines from Lucca, with whom Castruccio held communications with the object of effecting their restoration by the help of Uguccione. Castruccio also brought into his plans friends from Lucca who would not endure the authority of the Opizi. Having fixed upon a plan to be followed, Castruccio cautiously fortified the tower of the Onesti, filling it with supplies and munitions of war, in order that it might stand a siege for a few days in case of need. When the night came which had been agreed upon with Uguccione, who had occupied the plain between the mountains and Pisa with many men, the signal was given, and without being observed Uguccione approached the gate of San Piero and set fire to the portcullis. Castruccio raised a great uproar within the city, calling the people to arms and forcing open the gate from his side. Uguccione entered with his men, poured through the town, and killed Messer Giorgio with all his family and many of his friends and supporters. The governor was driven out, and the government reformed according to the wishes of Uguccione, to the detriment of the city, because it was found that more than one hundred families were exiled at that time. Of those who fled, part went to Florence and part to Pistoia, which city was the headquarters of the Guelph party, and for this reason it became most hostile to Uguccione and the Lucchese.
当时的比萨领主是阿雷佐法吉奥拉的乌古乔内，他首先当选为比萨的队长，后来成为了他们的领主。巴黎居住着一些来自卢卡的流亡吉伯党人，卡斯特鲁乔与他们保持着联系，目的是在乌古乔内的帮助下实现他们的复辟。卡斯特鲁乔还将来自卢卡的朋友纳入了他的计划，这些朋友不愿忍受奥皮兹的权威。在确定了要遵循的计划后，卡斯特鲁乔小心翼翼地加固了奥内斯蒂的塔楼，并在里面装满了战争物资和弹药，以便在需要时可以承受几天的围攻。当乌古乔内与许多人占领了山脉和比萨之间的平原时，约定的夜晚来临了，信号发出了，乌古乔内在没有被察觉的情况下走近了圣皮耶罗的大门，放火烧了闸门。卡斯特鲁乔在城内引起了轩然大波，他号召人们拿起武器，并从他身边强行打开了城门。乌古乔内带着他的部下进入，涌入城镇，杀死了乔治奥先生和他的所有家人以及他的许多朋友和支持者。总督被驱逐，政府按照乌古乔内的意愿进行改革，这对城市不利，因为发现当时有一百多个家庭被流放。逃亡者中，一部分去了佛罗伦萨，一部分去了皮斯托亚，该城市是圭尔夫党的总部，因此它对乌古乔内和卢凯人最为敌视。

As it now appeared to the Florentines and others of the Guelph party that the Ghibellines absorbed too much power in Tuscany, they determined to restore the exiled Guelphs to Lucca. They assembled a large army in the Val di Nievole, and seized Montecatini; from thence they marched to Montecarlo, in order to secure the free passage into Lucca. Upon this Uguccione assembled his Pisan and Lucchese forces, and with a number of German cavalry which he drew out of Lombardy, he moved against the quarters of the Florentines, who upon the appearance of the enemy withdrew from Montecarlo, and posted themselves between Montecatini and Pescia. Uguccione now took up a position near to Montecarlo, and within about two miles of the enemy, and slight skirmishes between the horse of both parties were of daily occurrence. Owing to the illness of Uguccione, the Pisans and Lucchese delayed coming to battle with the enemy. Uguccione, finding himself growing worse, went to Montecarlo to be cured, and left the command of the army in the hands of Castruccio. This change brought about the ruin of the Guelphs, who, thinking that the hostile army having lost its captain had lost its head, grew over-confident. Castruccio observed this, and allowed some days to pass in order to encourage this belief; he also showed signs of fear, and did not allow any of the munitions of the camp to be used. On the other side, the Guelphs grew more insolent the more they saw these evidences of fear, and every day they drew out in the order of battle in front of the army of Castruccio. Presently, deeming that the enemy was sufficiently emboldened, and having mastered their tactics, he decided to join battle with them. First he spoke a few words of encouragement to his soldiers, and pointed out to them the certainty of victory if they would but obey his commands. Castruccio had noticed how the enemy had placed all his best troops in the centre of the line of battle, and his less reliable men on the wings of the army; whereupon he did exactly the opposite, putting his most valiant men on the flanks, while those on whom he could not so strongly rely he moved to the centre. Observing this order of battle, he drew out of his lines and quickly came in sight of the hostile army, who, as usual, had come in their insolence to defy him. He then commanded his centre squadrons to march slowly, whilst he moved rapidly forward those on the wings. Thus, when they came into contact with the enemy, only the wings of the two armies became engaged, whilst the center battalions remained out of action, for these two portions of the line of battle were separated from each other by a long interval and thus unable to reach each other. By this expedient the more valiant part of Castruccio’s men were opposed to the weaker part of the enemy’s troops, and the most efficient men of the enemy were disengaged; and thus the Florentines were unable to fight with those who were arrayed opposite to them, or to give any assistance to their own flanks. So, without much difficulty, Castruccio put the enemy to flight on both flanks, and the centre battalions took to flight when they found themselves exposed to attack, without having a chance of displaying their valour. The defeat was complete, and the loss in men very heavy, there being more than ten thousand men killed with many officers and knights of the Guelph party in Tuscany, and also many princes who had come to help them, among whom were Piero, the brother of King Ruberto, and Carlo, his nephew, and Filippo, the lord of Taranto. On the part of Castruccio the loss did not amount to more than three hundred men, among whom was Francesco, the son of Uguccione, who, being young and rash, was killed in the first onset.
由于现在佛罗伦萨人和圭尔夫党的其他人认为吉伯林派在托斯卡纳吸收了太多权力，因此他们决定将流亡的圭尔夫派恢复到卢卡。他们在涅沃莱山谷集结了一支大军，占领了蒙特卡蒂尼。他们从那里向蒙特卡洛进军，以确保进入卢卡的自由通道。乌古乔内随即集结了他的比桑和卢凯军队，并与他从伦巴第调出的一些德国骑兵一起进攻佛罗伦萨人的营区，佛罗伦萨人在敌人出现后从蒙特卡洛撤退，驻扎在蒙特卡蒂尼和蒙特卡洛之间。佩夏.乌古乔内现在占据了蒙特卡洛附近的阵地，距离敌人大约两英里，双方的马匹之间每天都会发生轻微的冲突。由于乌古乔内患病，比萨人和卢凯塞人推迟了与敌人的战斗。乌古乔内发现自己的病情越来越严重，便前往蒙特卡洛接受治疗，并将军队的指挥权交给了卡斯特鲁乔。这一变化导致了圭尔夫派的灭亡，他们认为失去了队长的敌军已经失去了理智，变得过于自信。卡斯特鲁乔观察到了这一点，并花了几天的时间来鼓励这种信念。他还表现出恐惧的迹象，不允许使用营地的任何弹药。另一方面，圭尔夫派越看到这些令人恐惧的迹象，就越嚣张，他们每天都在卡斯特鲁乔的军队面前按照战斗顺序出击。当下，他认为敌人胆子够大，也掌握了他们的战术，决定与他们并肩作战。 首先，他对士兵们说了几句鼓励的话，并向他们指出，如果他们服从他的命令，就一定会取得胜利。卡斯特鲁乔注意到敌人如何将他所有最精锐的部队部署在战线的中央，而将不太可靠的人员部署在军队的两翼；于是，他采取了完全相反的做法，将最勇敢的士兵安排在侧翼，而将那些他不能那么依赖的人转移到中间。观察着这个战斗序列，他离开了自己的阵线，很快就看到了敌军，他们像往常一样，傲慢地前来反抗他。然后，他命令中央中队缓慢行进，而他则迅速向前两翼的中队前进。因此，当他们与敌人接触时，只有两军的两翼交战，而中间的营则保持不动，因为这两部分战线彼此相距很远，因此无法联系到对方。通过这一权宜之计，卡斯特鲁乔的部队中较勇敢的部分与敌军中较弱的部分进行了对抗，而敌军中最有效率的人员也被脱离了战斗。因此，佛罗伦萨人无法与他们对面的人作战，也无法为自己的侧翼提供任何帮助。因此，卡斯特鲁乔毫不费力地从两翼击退了敌人，而中间的各营在发现自己受到攻击时纷纷逃跑，没有机会展示自己的英勇。 这场大败，人员伤亡惨重，一万余人被杀，其中包括托斯卡纳的圭尔夫党的许多军官和骑士，还有许多前来援助的王子，其中包括皮耶罗。鲁贝托国王的兄弟、他的侄子卡洛和塔兰托领主菲利波。卡斯特鲁乔方面，损失不超过三百人，其中包括乌古乔内的儿子弗朗切斯科，他年轻鲁莽，在第一次进攻中就被杀了。

This victory so greatly increased the reputation of Castruccio that Uguccione conceived some jealousy and suspicion of him, because it appeared to Uguccione that this victory had given him no increase of power, but rather than diminished it. Being of this mind, he only waited for an opportunity to give effect to it. This occurred on the death of Pier Agnolo Micheli, a man of great repute and abilities in Lucca, the murderer of whom fled to the house of Castruccio for refuge. On the sergeants of the captain going to arrest the murderer, they were driven off by Castruccio, and the murderer escaped. This affair coming to the knowledge of Uguccione, who was than at Pisa, it appeared to him a proper opportunity to punish Castruccio. He therefore sent for his son Neri, who was the governor of Lucca, and commissioned him to take Castruccio prisoner at a banquet and put him to death. Castruccio, fearing no evil, went to the governor in a friendly way, was entertained at supper, and then thrown into prison. But Neri, fearing to put him to death lest the people should be incensed, kept him alive, in order to hear further from his father concerning his intentions. Ugucionne cursed the hesitation and cowardice of his son, and at once set out from Pisa to Lucca with four hundred horsemen to finish the business in his own way; but he had not yet reached the baths when the Pisans rebelled and put his deputy to death and created Count Gaddo della Gherardesca their lord. Before Uguccione reached Lucca he heard of the occurrences at Pisa, but it did not appear wise to him to turn back, lest the Lucchese with the example of Pisa before them should close their gates against him. But the Lucchese, having heard of what had happened at Pisa, availed themselves of this opportunity to demand the liberation of Castruccio, notwithstanding that Uguccione had arrived in their city. They first began to speak of it in private circles, afterwards openly in the squares and streets; then they raised a tumult, and with arms in their hands went to Uguccione and demanded that Castruccio should be set at liberty. Uguccione, fearing that worse might happen, released him from prison. Whereupon Castruccio gathered his friends around him, and with the help of the people attacked Uguccione; who, finding he had no resource but in flight, rode away with his friends to Lombardy, to the lords of Scale, where he died in poverty.
这次胜利极大地提高了卡斯特鲁乔的声誉，以至于乌古乔内对他产生了一些嫉妒和怀疑，因为在乌古乔内看来，这次胜利并没有增加他的权力，反而削弱了他的权力。既然如此，他就等待机会去实现。这件事发生在皮尔·阿格诺洛·米凯利去世时，他是卢卡一位享有盛誉和能力的人，凶手逃到卡斯特鲁乔家避难。就在上尉的军士准备逮捕凶手时，被卡斯特鲁乔赶走了，凶手逃走了。这件事被当时在比萨的乌古乔内知道，对他来说，这似乎是惩罚卡斯特鲁乔的好机会。因此，他派人召来担任卢卡总督的儿子内里，委托他在宴会上俘虏卡斯特鲁乔并将其处死。卡斯特鲁乔不惧怕任何邪恶，以友好的方式去见总督，受到晚餐的款待，然后被投入监狱。但奈里害怕处死他，以免激怒人民，所以留了他一命，以便从他父亲那里进一步了解他的意图。乌古乔内咒骂儿子的犹豫和怯懦，立即带着四百名骑兵从比萨出发前往卢卡，以他自己的方式完成任务。但他还没有到达浴场，比萨人就叛乱了，并处死了他的副手，并立加多·德拉·盖拉德斯卡伯爵为他们的领主。在乌古乔内到达卢卡之前，他听说了比萨发生的事情，但在他看来，回去并不明智，以免以比萨为榜样的卢凯人对他关闭大门。 但卢凯人听说比萨发生的事情后，利用这个机会要求释放卡斯特鲁乔，尽管乌古乔内已经抵达他们的城市。他们首先开始在私人圈子里谈论它，后来在广场和街道上公开谈论它。然后他们骚乱起来，双手抱臂走到乌古乔内面前，要求释放卡斯特鲁乔。乌古乔内担心会发生更糟糕的情况，将他从监狱释放了。于是卡斯特鲁乔召集了他的朋友们，并在人民的帮助下攻击了乌古乔内。他发现自己一无所有，只能逃亡，便和朋友们一起骑马前往伦巴第，投奔斯凯尔的领主们，在那里他贫困潦倒地死去。

But Castruccio from being a prisoner became almost a prince in Lucca, and he carried himself so discreetly with his friends and the people that they appointed him captain of their army for one year. Having obtained this, and wishing to gain renown in war, he planned the recovery of the many towns which had rebelled after the departure of Uguccione, and with the help of the Pisans, with whom he had concluded a treaty, he marched to Serezzana. To capture this place he constructed a fort against it, which is called to-day Zerezzanello; in the course of two months Castruccio captured the town. With the reputation gained at that siege, he rapidly seized Massa, Carrara, and Lavenza, and in a short time had overrun the whole of Lunigiana. In order to close the pass which leads from Lombardy to Lunigiana, he besieged Pontremoli and wrested it from the hands of Messer Anastagio Palavicini, who was the lord of it. After this victory he returned to Lucca, and was welcomed by the whole people. And now Castruccio, deeming it imprudent any longer to defer making himself a prince, got himself created the lord of Lucca by the help of Pazzino del Poggio, Puccinello dal Portico, Francesco Boccansacchi, and Cecco Guinigi, all of whom he had corrupted; and he was afterwards solemnly and deliberately elected prince by the people. At this time Frederick of Bavaria, the King of the Romans, came into Italy to assume the Imperial crown, and Castruccio, in order that he might make friends with him, met him at the head of five hundred horsemen. Castruccio had left as his deputy in Lucca, Pagolo Guinigi, who was held in high estimation, because of the people’s love for the memory of his father. Castruccio was received in great honour by Frederick, and many privileges were conferred upon him, and he was appointed the emperor’s lieutenant in Tuscany. At this time the Pisans were in great fear of Gaddo della Gherardesca, whom they had driven out of Pisa, and they had recourse for assistance to Frederick. Frederick created Castruccio the lord of Pisa, and the Pisans, in dread of the Guelph party, and particularly of the Florentines, were constrained to accept him as their lord.
但卡斯特鲁乔从一名囚犯变成了卢卡的王子，他与朋友和人民相处得非常谨慎，以至于他们任命他为军队队长一年。获得这一地位后，并希望在战争中赢得声誉，他计划收复乌古乔内离开后发生叛乱的许多城镇，并在与他签订条约的比萨人的帮助下，向塞雷扎纳进军。为了占领这个地方，他在上面建造了一座堡垒，今天被称为泽雷扎内洛（Zerezzanello）。两个月后，卡斯特鲁乔占领了该镇。凭借在那次围攻中获得的声誉，他迅速占领了马萨、卡拉拉和拉文扎，并在短时间内占领了整个卢尼贾纳。为了关闭从伦巴第通往卢尼贾纳的通道，他围攻了蓬特雷莫利，并从该地领主阿纳斯塔吉奥·帕拉维奇尼先生手中夺取了这座城市。这次胜利后他回到了卢卡，受到了全民的欢迎。现在，卡斯特鲁乔认为推迟让自己成为王子是不明智的，他在帕齐诺·德尔·波焦、普奇内洛·达尔·波蒂科、弗朗西斯科·博坎萨基和切科·吉尼吉的帮助下，让自己成为卢卡领主，这些人都是他所腐蚀的。后来他被人民郑重而慎重地选为王子。这时，罗马国王巴伐利亚的腓特烈来到意大利登基，卡斯特鲁乔为了与他交朋友，率领五百骑兵迎接了他。由于人们对他父亲的缅怀，卡斯特鲁乔离开了他在卢卡的副手帕戈洛·吉尼吉（Pagolo Guinigi），他受到了很高的评价。 卡斯特鲁乔受到腓特烈大帝的热烈接待，并被授予许多特权，并被任命为托斯卡纳皇帝的副官。此时，比萨人非常害怕被他们赶出比萨的加多·德拉·格拉德斯卡，他们向腓特烈求助。腓特烈立卡斯特鲁乔为比萨领主，而比萨人由于害怕圭尔夫党，尤其是佛罗伦萨人，被迫接受他为领主。

Frederick, having appointed a governor in Rome to watch his Italian affairs, returned to Germany. All the Tuscan and Lombardian Ghibellines, who followed the imperial lead, had recourse to Castruccio for help and counsel, and all promised him the governorship of his country, if enabled to recover it with his assistance. Among these exiles were Matteo Guidi, Nardo Scolari, Lapo Uberti, Gerozzo Nardi, and Piero Buonaccorsi, all exiled Florentines and Ghibellines. Castruccio had the secret intention of becoming the master of all Tuscany by the aid of these men and of his own forces; and in order to gain greater weight in affairs, he entered into a league with Messer Matteo Visconti, the Prince of Milan, and organized for him the forces of his city and the country districts. As Lucca had five gates, he divided his own country districts into five parts, which he supplied with arms, and enrolled the men under captains and ensigns, so that he could quickly bring into the field twenty thousand soldiers, without those whom he could summon to his assistance from Pisa. While he surrounded himself with these forces and allies, it happened at Messer Matteo Visconti was attacked by the Guelphs of Piacenza, who had driven out the Ghibellines with the assistance of a Florentine army and the King Ruberto. Messer Matteo called upon Castruccio to invade the Florentines in their own territories, so that, being attacked at home, they should be compelled to draw their army out of Lombardy in order to defend themselves. Castruccio invaded the Valdarno, and seized Fucecchio and San Miniato, inflicting immense damage upon the country. Whereupon the Florentines recalled their army, which had scarcely reached Tuscany, when Castruccio was forced by other necessities to return to Lucca.
腓特烈在罗马任命了一位总督来监督他的意大利事务，然后返回了德国。所有追随帝国领导的托斯卡纳和伦巴第吉伯林党人都向卡斯特鲁乔寻求帮助和建议，并承诺如果能够在他的协助下恢复国家，他将担任他的国家的总督。这些流亡者包括马泰奥·吉迪、纳尔多·斯科拉里、拉波·乌贝蒂、杰罗佐·纳尔迪和皮耶罗·布纳科尔西，他们都是流亡的佛罗伦萨人和吉伯林派。卡斯特鲁乔有一个秘密意图，就是要在这些人和他自己的军队的帮助下成为整个托斯卡纳的主人。为了在事务中获得更大的影响力，他与米兰王子马泰奥·维斯康蒂先生结盟，为他组织城市和乡村地区的军队。由于卢卡有五个城门，他将自己的乡村地区分为五个部分，并为其提供武器，并将这些人编入队长和少尉的指挥下，这样他就可以迅速调动两万士兵上阵，而无需他可以召唤的人。感谢他来自比萨的援助。当他被这些军队和盟友包围时，马泰奥·维斯康蒂先生在梅塞尔·马泰奥·维斯康蒂遭到了皮亚琴察的圭尔夫派的袭击，皮亚琴察的圭尔夫派在佛罗伦萨军队和鲁贝托国王的协助下驱逐了吉伯林派。马泰奥先生呼吁卡斯特鲁乔入侵佛罗伦萨人的领土，这样，当他们在国内受到攻击时，他们就被迫从伦巴第撤军以自卫。卡斯特鲁乔入侵瓦尔达诺，占领了富切基奥和圣米尼亚托，给国家造成了巨大损失。随后，佛罗伦萨人召回了他们的军队，他们的军队几乎没有到达托斯卡纳，而卡斯特鲁乔则因其他需要而被迫返回卢卡。

There resided in the city of Lucca the Poggio family, who were so powerful that they could not only elevate Castruccio, but even advance him to the dignity of prince; and it appearing to them they had not received such rewards for their services as they deserved, they incited other families to rebel and to drive Castruccio out of Lucca. They found their opportunity one morning, and arming themselves, they set upon the lieutenant whom Castruccio had left to maintain order and killed him. They endeavoured to raise the people in revolt, but Stefano di Poggio, a peaceable old man who had taken no hand in the rebellion, intervened and compelled them by his authority to lay down their arms; and he offered to be their mediator with Castruccio to obtain from him what they desired. Therefore they laid down their arms with no greater intelligence than they had taken them up. Castruccio, having heard the news of what had happened at Lucca, at once put Pagolo Guinigi in command of the army, and with a troop of cavalry set out for home. Contrary to his expectations, he found the rebellion at an end, yet he posted his men in the most advantageous places throughout the city. As it appeared to Stefano that Castruccio ought to be very much obliged to him, he sought him out, and without saying anything on his own behalf, for he did not recognize any need for doing so, he begged Castruccio to pardon the other members of his family by reason of their youth, their former friendships, and the obligations which Castruccio was under to their house. To this Castruccio graciously responded, and begged Stefano to reassure himself, declaring that it gave him more pleasure to find the tumult at an end than it had ever caused him anxiety to hear of its inception. He encouraged Stefano to bring his family to him, saying that he thanked God for having given him the opportunity of showing his clemency and liberality. Upon the word of Stefano and Castruccio they surrendered, and with Stefano were immediately thrown into prison and put to death. Meanwhile the Florentines had recovered San Miniato, whereupon it seemed advisable to Castruccio to make peace, as it did not appear to him that he was sufficiently secure at Lucca to leave him. He approached the Florentines with the proposal of a truce, which they readily entertained, for they were weary of the war, and desirous of getting rid of the expenses of it. A treaty was concluded with them for two years, by which both parties agreed to keep the conquests they had made. Castruccio thus released from this trouble, turned his attention to affairs in Lucca, and in order that he should not again be subject to the perils from which he had just escaped, he, under various pretences and reasons, first wiped out all those who by their ambition might aspire to the principality; not sparing one of them, but depriving them of country and property, and those whom he had in his hands of life also, stating that he had found by experience that none of them were to be trusted. Then for his further security he raised a fortress in Lucca with the stones of the towers of those whom he had killed or hunted out of the state.
卢卡城里居住着波焦家族，他们势力强大，不仅能够提升卡斯特鲁乔，甚至还能将他提升到王子的尊严。在他们看来，他们的服务并没有得到应有的回报，他们煽动其他家族叛乱，将卡斯特鲁乔赶出卢卡。一天早上，他们找到了机会，武装起来，袭击了卡斯特鲁乔留下来维持秩序的中尉，并杀死了他。他们竭力煽动人民造反，但斯特凡诺·迪·波焦（Stefano di Poggio）这位爱好和平的老人并未参与叛乱，他进行了干预，并利用自己的权威迫使他们放下武器。他主动提出担任他们与卡斯特鲁乔的调解人，以便从他那里得到他们想要的东西。因此，他们放下武器时并不比拿起武器时更聪明。卡斯特鲁乔得知卢卡发生的事情后，立即任命帕戈洛·吉尼吉指挥军队，并率领一队骑兵启程回国。与他的预期相反，他发现叛乱已经结束，但他将他的部队部署在整个城市最有利的地方。斯特凡诺觉得卡斯特鲁乔应该对他非常感激，于是他找到了他，并没有代表自己说什么，因为他不认为有任何必要这样做，他恳求卡斯特鲁乔原谅其他成员。他的家人因为年轻、以前的友谊，以及卡斯特鲁乔对他们的房子所承担的义务。卡斯特鲁乔对此做出了慷慨的回应，并恳求斯特凡诺让自己放心，他宣称，与听到骚乱开始时所带来的焦虑相比，他更高兴看到骚乱的结束。 他鼓励斯特凡诺把他的家人带到他身边，并说他感谢上帝给了他表现出仁慈和慷慨的机会。在斯特凡诺和卡斯特鲁乔的一声令下，他们投降了，斯特凡诺立即被投入监狱并被处决。与此同时，佛罗伦萨人收复了圣米尼亚托，卡斯特鲁乔似乎建议讲和，因为在他看来，他在卢卡的安全还不足以离开他。他向佛罗伦萨人提出了休战的建议，他们欣然接受了这一建议，因为他们厌倦了战争，并希望摆脱战争的开支。与他们签订了为期两年的条约，双方同意保留他们所取得的成果。卡斯特鲁乔由此摆脱了困境，将注意力转向了卢卡的事务，为了避免再次陷入刚刚逃脱的危险，他以各种借口和理由，首先消灭了所有那些通过他们的野心可能是争夺公国；没有放过他们中的任何一个，而是剥夺了他们的国家和财产，以及他所拥有的生命中的那些人，并说他根据经验发现他们中没有一个人是值得信任的。然后，为了进一步保障自己的安全，他在卢卡用塔楼的石头建造了一座堡垒，这些人是他从该州杀死或追捕的人。

Whilst Castruccio made peace with the Florentines, and strengthened his position in Lucca, he neglected no opportunity, short of open war, of increasing his importance elsewhere. It appeared to him that if he could get possession of Pistoia, he would have one foot in Florence, which was his great desire. He, therefore, in various ways made friends with the mountaineers, and worked matters so in Pistoia that both parties confided their secrets to him. Pistoia was divided, as it always had been, into the Bianchi and Neri parties; the head of the Bianchi was Bastiano di Possente, and of the Neri, Jacopo da Gia. Each of these men held secret communications with Castruccio, and each desired to drive the other out of the city; and, after many threatenings, they came to blows. Jacopo fortified himself at the Florentine gate, Bastiano at that of the Lucchese side of the city; both trusted more in Castruccio than in the Florentines, because they believed that Castruccio was far more ready and willing to fight than the Florentines, and they both sent to him for assistance. He gave promises to both, saying to Bastiano that he would come in person, and to Jacopo that he would send his pupil, Pagolo Guinigi. At the appointed time he sent forward Pagolo by way of Pisa, and went himself direct to Pistoia; at midnight both of them met outside the city, and both were admitted as friends. Thus the two leaders entered, and at a signal given by Castruccio, one killed Jacopo da Gia, and the other Bastiano di Possente, and both took prisoners or killed the partisans of either faction. Without further opposition Pistoia passed into the hands of Castruccio, who, having forced the Signoria to leave the palace, compelled the people to yield obedience to him, making them many promises and remitting their old debts. The countryside flocked to the city to see the new prince, and all were filled with hope and quickly settled down, influenced in a great measure by his great valour.
当卡斯特鲁乔与佛罗伦萨人讲和并加强他在卢卡的地位时，他不放过除了公开战争之外在其他地方增加他的重要性的任何机会。在他看来，如果能得到皮斯托亚，他的一只脚就踏上了佛罗伦萨，这是他最大的愿望。因此，他以各种方式与登山者交朋友，并在皮斯托亚工作，双方都向他透露了他们的秘密。皮斯托亚一如既往地分为比安奇党和内里党。比安奇家族的首领是巴斯蒂亚诺·迪·波森特，内里家族的首领是雅各布·达·吉亚。这些人都与卡斯特鲁乔保持着秘密联系，并且都想将对方赶出城市。经过多次威胁后，他们开始打架。雅格布在佛罗伦萨城门设防，巴斯蒂亚诺则在城市卢凯斯一侧的城门设防。两人都更信任卡斯特鲁乔而不是佛罗伦萨人，因为他们相信卡斯特鲁乔比佛罗伦萨人更愿意战斗，并且都派人向他寻求援助。他向两人做出了承诺，对巴斯蒂亚诺说他会亲自来，对雅各布说他会派他的学生帕戈洛·吉尼吉来。在约定的时间，他派帕戈洛取道比萨，自己则直接前往皮斯托亚。半夜，二人在城外相见，并结为好友。于是，两位领导人进入，在卡斯特鲁乔发出的信号下，其中一人杀死了雅科波·达吉亚，另一人杀死了巴斯蒂亚诺·迪·波森特，两人都俘虏了或杀死了任一派别的游击队员。 没有进一步的反对，皮斯托亚就落入了卡斯特鲁乔的手中，卡斯特鲁乔迫使执政官离开宫殿，迫使人民屈服于他，向他们做出了许多承诺并免除了他们的旧债。乡下人纷纷涌入城里看望新王子，大家都充满希望，很快就安定下来，这在很大程度上受到了他的勇敢精神的影响。

About this time great disturbances arose in Rome, owing to the dearness of living which was caused by the absence of the pontiff at Avignon. The German governor, Enrico, was much blamed for what happened—murders and tumults following each other daily, without his being able to put an end to them. This caused Enrico much anxiety lest the Romans should call in Ruberto, the King of Naples, who would drive the Germans out of the city, and bring back the Pope. Having no nearer friend to whom he could apply for help than Castruccio, he sent to him, begging him not only to give him assistance, but also to come in person to Rome. Castruccio considered that he ought not to hesitate to render the emperor this service, because he believed that he himself would not be safe if at any time the emperor ceased to hold Rome. Leaving Pagolo Guinigi in command at Lucca, Castruccio set out for Rome with six hundred horsemen, where he was received by Enrico with the greatest distinction. In a short time the presence of Castruccio obtained such respect for the emperor that, without bloodshed or violence, good order was restored, chiefly by reason of Castruccio having sent by sea from the country round Pisa large quantities of corn, and thus removed the source of the trouble. When he had chastised some of the Roman leaders, and admonished others, voluntary obedience was rendered to Enrico. Castruccio received many honours, and was made a Roman senator. This dignity was assumed with the greatest pomp, Castruccio being clothed in a brocaded toga, which had the following words embroidered on its front: ‘I am what God wills.’ Whilst on the back was: ‘What God desires shall be.’
大约在这个时候，由于教皇不在阿维尼翁而导致生活拮据，罗马发生了巨大的骚乱。德国总督恩里科对所发生的事情受到了很多指责——谋杀和骚乱每天都在发生，而他却无力制止它们。这让恩里科非常焦虑，担心罗马人会请来那不勒斯国王鲁贝托，他会把德国人赶出城市，并带回教皇。他没有比卡斯特鲁乔更亲近的朋友可以向他寻求帮助，因此他派人去找卡斯特鲁乔，请求他不仅给予他帮助，而且亲自前往罗马。卡斯特鲁乔认为他应该毫不犹豫地为皇帝提供这项服务，因为他相信，如果皇帝在任何时候不再控制罗马，他本人也将不安全。卡斯特鲁乔留下帕戈洛·吉尼吉在卢卡指挥，他率领六百名骑兵出发前往罗马，在那里他受到了恩里科的盛情款待。卡斯特鲁乔的出现在很短的时间内赢得了皇帝的尊重，在没有流血或暴力的情况下，良好的秩序得到了恢复，这主要是因为卡斯特鲁乔从比萨周围的乡村通过海路运来了大量的玉米，从而消除了来源的麻烦。当他惩罚了一些罗马领导人并警告其他人后，恩里科自愿服从。卡斯特鲁乔获得了许多荣誉，并被任命为罗马参议员。这种尊严以最盛大的方式呈现出来，卡斯特鲁乔穿着锦缎托加袍，正面绣着以下文字：“我是上帝所希望的。”而背面则是：“上帝所希望的就是如此。”

During this time the Florentines, who were much enraged that Castruccio should have seized Pistoia during the truce, considered how they could tempt the city to rebel, to do which they thought would not be difficult in his absence. Among the exiled Pistoians in Florence were Baldo Cecchi and Jacopo Baldini, both men of leading and ready to face danger. These men kept up communications with their friends in Pistoia, and with the aid of the Florentines entered the city by night, and after driving out some of Castruccio’s officials and partisans, and killing others, they restored the city to its freedom. The news of this greatly angered Castruccio, and taking leave of Enrico, he pressed on in great haste to Pistoia. When the Florentines heard of his return, knowing that he would lose no time, they decided to intercept him with their forces in the Val di Nievole, under the belief that by doing so they would cut off his road to Pistoia. Assembling a great army of the supporters of the Guelph cause, the Florentines entered the Pistoian territories. On the other hand, Castruccio reached Montecarlo with his army; and having heard where the Florentines’ lay, he decided not to encounter it in the plains of Pistoia, nor to await it in the plains of Pescia, but, as far as he possibly could, to attack it boldly in the Pass of Serravalle. He believed that if he succeeded in this design, victory was assured, although he was informed that the Florentines had thirty thousand men, whilst he had only twelve thousand. Although he had every confidence in his own abilities and the valour of his troops, yet he hesitated to attack his enemy in the open lest he should be overwhelmed by numbers. Serravalle is a castle between Pescia and Pistoia, situated on a hill which blocks the Val di Nievole, not in the exact pass, but about a bowshot beyond; the pass itself is in places narrow and steep, whilst in general it ascends gently, but is still narrow, especially at the summit where the waters divide, so that twenty men side by side could hold it. The lord of Serravalle was Manfred, a German, who, before Castruccio became lord of Pistoia, had been allowed to remain in possession of the castle, it being common to the Lucchese and the Pistoians, and unclaimed by either—neither of them wishing to displace Manfred as long as he kept his promise of neutrality, and came under obligations to no one. For these reasons, and also because the castle was well fortified, he had always been able to maintain his position. It was here that Castruccio had determined to fall upon his enemy, for here his few men would have the advantage, and there was no fear lest, seeing the large masses of the hostile force before they became engaged, they should not stand. As soon as this trouble with Florence arose, Castruccio saw the immense advantage which possession of this castle would give him, and having an intimate friendship with a resident in the castle, he managed matters so with him that four hundred of his men were to be admitted into the castle the night before the attack on the Florentines, and the castellan put to death.
在此期间，佛罗伦萨人对卡斯特鲁乔在休战期间占领皮斯托亚感到非常愤怒，他们考虑如何诱使这座城市叛乱，他们认为在他不在的情况下做到这一点并不困难。巴尔多·切基和雅科波·巴尔迪尼是流亡佛罗伦萨的皮斯托派人士之一，他们都是领袖人物，随时准备面对危险。这些人与他们在皮斯托亚的朋友保持着联系，并在佛罗伦萨人的帮助下于夜间进入这座城市，在驱逐了卡斯特鲁乔的一些官员和游击队员并杀死了其他人后，他们使这座城市恢复了自由。这个消息极大地激怒了卡斯特鲁乔，他告别了恩里科，匆匆赶往皮斯托亚。当佛罗伦萨人听说他回来时，他们知道他会抓紧时间，决定派部队在涅沃莱山谷拦截他，因为他们相信这样做会切断他通往皮斯托亚的道路。佛罗伦萨人集结了一支由圭尔夫事业支持者组成的大军，进入皮斯托亚领土。另一方面，卡斯特鲁乔率领军队抵达蒙特卡洛。在得知佛罗伦萨人的阵地后，他决定不在皮斯托亚平原迎战，也不在佩夏平原等待，而是尽可能在塞拉瓦莱山口大胆进攻。他相信，如果他的计划成功，胜利就一定会发生，尽管他被告知佛罗伦萨人有三万人，而他只有一万二千人。尽管他对自己的能力和部队的英勇充满信心，但他却犹豫是否要在公开场合攻击敌人，以免被人数压倒。 塞拉瓦莱（Serravalle）是佩夏（Pescia）和皮斯托亚（Pistoia）之间的一座城堡，坐落在一座小山上，阻挡了瓦尔迪涅沃莱（Val di Nievole），不是在精确的山口上，而是在远处一个弓箭处。关口本身有些地方又窄又陡，虽然一般都是平缓上升，但还是很窄，特别是在分水岭的山顶，只能并排二十个人才能通过。塞拉瓦莱的领主是曼弗雷德，一个德国人，在卡斯特鲁乔成为皮斯托亚领主之前，他被允许继续拥有这座城堡，这座城堡为卢凯人和皮斯托亚人所共有，并且没有任何一方声称拥有——他们都不想只要曼弗雷德信守中立的承诺，并且不对任何人承担任何义务，他就可以取代曼弗雷德。正是因为这些原因，也因为城堡的防御十分坚固，他才一直能够保住自己的地位。卡斯特鲁乔决定在这里向他的敌人发起进攻，因为在这里他的少数人将占据优势，而且不用担心，在交战之前看到大批敌军，他们不应该站立。与佛罗伦萨的麻烦一发生，卡斯特鲁乔就看到了拥有这座城堡会给他带来的巨大优势，并且与城堡中的一位居民有着亲密的友谊，他与他一起处理事情，以至于他的四百名部下将被派去执行任务。在袭击佛罗伦萨人的前一天晚上，他被允许进入城堡，并处死了城堡主。

Castruccio, having prepared everything, had now to encourage the Florentines to persist in their desire to carry the seat of war away from Pistoia into the Val di Nievole, therefore he did not move his army from Montecarlo. Thus the Florentines hurried on until they reached their encampment under Serravalle, intending to cross the hill on the following morning. In the meantime, Castruccio had seized the castle at night, had also moved his army from Montecarlo, and marching from thence at midnight in dead silence, had reached the foot of Serravalle: thus he and the Florentines commenced the ascent of the hill at the same time in the morning. Castruccio sent forward his infantry by the main road, and a troop of four hundred horsemen by a path on the left towards the castle. The Florentines sent forward four hundred cavalry ahead of their army which was following, never expecting to find Castruccio in possession of the hill, nor were they aware of his having seized the castle. Thus it happened that the Florentine horsemen mounting the hill were completely taken by surprise when they discovered the infantry of Castruccio, and so close were they upon it they had scarcely time to pull down their visors. It was a case of unready soldiers being attacked by ready, and they were assailed with such vigour that with difficulty they could hold their own, although some few of them got through. When the noise of the fighting reached the Florentine camp below, it was filled with confusion. The cavalry and infantry became inextricably mixed: the captains were unable to get their men either backward or forward, owing to the narrowness of the pass, and amid all this tumult no one knew what ought to be done or what could be done. In a short time the cavalry who were engaged with the enemy’s infantry were scattered or killed without having made any effective defence because of their unfortunate position, although in sheer desperation they had offered a stout resistance. Retreat had been impossible, with the mountains on both flanks, whilst in front were their enemies, and in the rear their friends. When Castruccio saw that his men were unable to strike a decisive blow at the enemy and put them to flight, he sent one thousand infantrymen round by the castle, with orders to join the four hundred horsemen he had previously dispatched there, and commanded the whole force to fall upon the flank of the enemy. These orders they carried out with such fury that the Florentines could not sustain the attack, but gave way, and were soon in full retreat—conquered more by their unfortunate position than by the valour of their enemy. Those in the rear turned towards Pistoia, and spread through the plains, each man seeking only his own safety. The defeat was complete and very sanguinary. Many captains were taken prisoners, among whom were Bandini dei Rossi, Francesco Brunelleschi, and Giovanni della Tosa, all Florentine noblemen, with many Tuscans and Neapolitans who fought on the Florentine side, having been sent by King Ruberto to assist the Guelphs. Immediately the Pistoians heard of this defeat they drove out the friends of the Guelphs, and surrendered to Castruccio. He was not content with occupying Prato and all the castles on the plains on both sides of the Arno, but marched his army into the plain of Peretola, about two miles from Florence. Here he remained many days, dividing the spoils, and celebrating his victory with feasts and games, holding horse races, and foot races for men and women. He also struck medals in commemoration of the defeat of the Florentines. He endeavoured to corrupt some of the citizens of Florence, who were to open the city gates at night; but the conspiracy was discovered, and the participators in it taken and beheaded, among whom were Tommaso Lupacci and Lambertuccio Frescobaldi. This defeat caused the Florentines great anxiety, and despairing of preserving their liberty, they sent envoys to King Ruberto of Naples, offering him the dominion of their city; and he, knowing of what immense importance the maintenance of the Guelph cause was to him, accepted it. He agreed with the Florentines to receive from them a yearly tribute of two hundred thousand florins, and he send his son Carlo to Florence with four thousand horsemen.
卡斯特鲁乔已经做好了一切准备，现在必须鼓励佛罗伦萨人坚持将战地从皮斯托亚转移到涅沃莱谷的愿望，因此他没有将军队从蒙特卡洛撤走。佛罗伦萨人就这样匆匆赶路，直到到达塞拉瓦莱下的营地，并打算在第二天早上翻越这座山。与此同时，卡斯特鲁乔在夜间占领了城堡，也将他的军队从蒙特卡洛撤出，并于午夜在死一般的寂静中从那里出发，到达了塞拉瓦莱脚下：就这样，他和佛罗伦萨人开始了爬上山脚的任务。早上同一时间。卡斯特鲁乔派遣他的步兵沿着主路前进，并派出一支由四百名骑兵组成的部队沿着左侧的一条小路向城堡前进。佛罗伦萨人派遣了四百名骑兵在他们的追随军队前面前行，没想到卡斯特鲁乔占领了这座山，也不知道他已经占领了城堡。因此，当登上山丘的佛罗伦萨骑兵发现卡斯特鲁乔的步兵时，他们完全大吃一惊，他们离山太近了，几乎来不及拉下面罩。这是未做好准备的士兵遭到准备好的士兵攻击的情况，他们的攻击力如此之大，以至于他们很难坚守住自己的位置，但也有少数人成功了。当战斗的喧嚣传到下方的佛罗伦萨营地时，一片混乱。骑兵和步兵变得难解难分：由于山口狭窄，将领们无法让他们的士兵后退或前进，在这一切混乱中，没有人知道应该做什么或可以做什么。 与敌方步兵交战的骑兵虽然在绝望中进行了顽强抵抗，但由于位置不佳，未能做出有效的防御，很快就被打散或阵亡。两面都是山，前面是敌人，后面是朋友，想要撤退是不可能的。当卡斯特鲁乔看到他的部下无法对敌人发动决定性打击并击退他们时，他派出一千名步兵绕到城堡周围，并命令与他先前派到那里的四百名骑兵汇合，并指挥整个城堡。强行攻击敌人的侧翼。他们如此狂怒地执行这些命令，以至于佛罗伦萨人无法承受进攻，只能屈服，很快就全面撤退——更多的是因为他们的不幸处境而不是敌人的英勇。后方的人转向皮斯托亚，散布在平原上，每个人都只寻求自己的安全。失败是彻底的，而且是非常血腥的。许多船长被俘，其中包括班迪尼·德·罗西、弗朗切斯科·布鲁内莱斯基和乔瓦尼·德拉·托萨，他们都是佛罗伦萨贵族，还有许多托斯卡纳人和那不勒斯人站在佛罗伦萨一边，被鲁贝托国王派去援助圭尔夫派。皮斯托派得知这次失败后，立即赶走了圭尔夫派的朋友，并向卡斯特鲁乔投降。他并不满足于占领普拉托和阿尔诺河两岸平原上的所有城堡，而是将他的军队进军距离佛罗伦萨约两英里的佩雷托拉平原。他在这里停留了很多天，瓜分战利品，用宴会和游戏来庆祝他的胜利，举办赛马和男女赛跑。 他还铸造了奖牌以纪念击败佛罗伦萨人。他试图腐蚀一些佛罗伦萨的公民，让他们在夜间打开城门。但阴谋被发现，参与阴谋的人被抓获并斩首，其中包括托马索·卢帕奇和兰伯特·弗雷斯科巴尔迪。这次失败引起了佛罗伦萨人的极大焦虑，他们对保护自己的自由感到绝望，于是他们派出使者去见那不勒斯国王鲁贝托，向他提出对这座城市的统治权。他知道维护圭尔夫事业对他来说有多么重要，因此接受了这一点。他与佛罗伦萨人达成协议，每年从他们那里接受二十万弗罗林的贡品，并派他的儿子卡洛带着四千名骑兵前往佛罗伦萨。

Shortly after this the Florentines were relieved in some degree of the pressure of Castruccio’s army, owing to his being compelled to leave his positions before Florence and march on Pisa, in order to suppress a conspiracy that had been raised against him by Benedetto Lanfranchi, one of the first men in Pisa, who could not endure that his fatherland should be under the dominion of the Lucchese. He had formed this conspiracy, intending to seize the citadel, kill the partisans of Castruccio, and drive out the garrison. As, however, in a conspiracy paucity of numbers is essential to secrecy, so for its execution a few are not sufficient, and in seeking more adherents to his conspiracy Lanfranchi encountered a person who revealed the design to Castruccio. This betrayal cannot be passed by without severe reproach to Bonifacio Cerchi and Giovanni Guidi, two Florentine exiles who were suffering their banishment in Pisa. Thereupon Castruccio seized Benedetto and put him to death, and beheaded many other noble citizens, and drove their families into exile. It now appeared to Castruccio that both Pisa and Pistoia were thoroughly disaffected; he employed much thought and energy upon securing his position there, and this gave the Florentines their opportunity to reorganize their army, and to await the coming of Carlo, the son of the King of Naples. When Carlo arrived they decided to lose no more time, and assembled a great army of more than thirty thousand infantry and ten thousand cavalry—having called to their aid every Guelph there was in Italy. They consulted whether they should attack Pistoia or Pisa first, and decided that it would be better to march on the latter—a course, owing to the recent conspiracy, more likely to succeed, and of more advantage to them, because they believed that the surrender of Pistoia would follow the acquisition of Pisa.
此后不久，佛罗伦萨人在某种程度上缓解了卡斯特鲁乔军队的压力，因为他被迫离开佛罗伦萨之前的阵地并向比萨进军，以镇压贝内代托·兰弗兰基（Benedetto Lanfranchi）针对他提出的阴谋。比萨的第一批人，他无法忍受自己的祖国处于卢凯人的统治之下。他策划了这个阴谋，目的是夺取城堡，杀死卡斯特鲁乔的游击队，驱逐驻军。然而，由于在阴谋中，人数不足对于保密至关重要，因此，执行人数不足是不够的，在寻找更多阴谋支持者的过程中，兰弗兰基遇到了一个向卡斯特鲁乔透露了阴谋计划的人。如果不严厉谴责博尼法西奥·切尔奇和乔瓦尼·圭迪这两位在比萨遭受流放的佛罗伦萨流亡者，就不能忽视这种背叛。于是卡斯特鲁乔抓住了贝内代托并处死了他，并斩首了许多其他贵族公民，并将他们的家人流放。现在卡斯特鲁乔看来，比萨和皮斯托亚都彻底不满了。他花了很多心思和精力来确保自己在那里的地位，这给了佛罗伦萨人重组军队并等待那不勒斯国王的儿子卡洛到来的机会。当卡洛到达时，他们决定不再浪费时间，集结了一支由三万多名步兵和一万名骑兵组成的大军——向意大利的每一个圭尔夫号求援。 他们商量是否应该先进攻皮斯托亚或比萨，并决定向后者进军更好——由于最近的阴谋，这一路线更有可能成功，对他们更有利，因为他们相信，获得比萨后将放弃皮斯托亚。

In the early part of May 1328, the Florentines put in motion this army and quickly occupied Lastra, Signa, Montelupo, and Empoli, passing from thence on to San Miniato. When Castruccio heard of the enormous army which the Florentines were sending against him, he was in no degree alarmed, believing that the time had now arrived when Fortune would deliver the empire of Tuscany into his hands, for he had no reason to think that his enemy would make a better fight, or had better prospects of success, than at Pisa or Serravalle. He assembled twenty thousand foot soldiers and four thousand horsemen, and with this army went to Fucecchio, whilst he sent Pagolo Guinigi to Pisa with five thousand infantry. Fucecchio has a stronger position than any other town in the Pisan district, owing to its situation between the rivers Arno and Gusciana and its slight elevation above the surrounding plain. Moreover, the enemy could not hinder its being victualled unless they divided their forces, nor could they approach it either from the direction of Lucca or Pisa, nor could they get through to Pisa, or attack Castruccio’s forces except at a disadvantage. In one case they would find themselves placed between his two armies, the one under his own command and the other under Pagolo, and in the other case they would have to cross the Arno to get to close quarters with the enemy, an undertaking of great hazard. In order to tempt the Florentines to take this latter course, Castruccio withdrew his men from the banks of the river and placed them under the walls of Fucecchio, leaving a wide expanse of land between them and the river.
1328年5月上旬，佛罗伦萨人出动这支军队，迅速占领了拉斯特拉、西尼亚、蒙特卢波和恩波利，并从那里一直到圣米尼亚托。当卡斯特鲁乔听说佛罗伦萨人派出庞大的军队来对付他时，他丝毫没有感到惊慌，他相信命运将托斯卡纳帝国交到他手中的时刻已经到来，因为他没有理由认为他的与比萨或塞拉瓦莱相比，敌人会打得更好，或者有更好的成功前景。他集结了两万名步兵和四千名骑兵，率领这支军队前往富切基奥，同时派帕戈洛·吉尼吉率领五千名步兵前往比萨。由于富切基奥位于阿尔诺河和古夏纳河之间，且略高于周围平原，因此其地位比比桑地区的任何其他城镇都更强大。此外，敌人除非分散兵力，否则无法阻碍其补给，也无法从卢卡或比萨方向接近它，也无法到达比萨，除非处于劣势，否则他们无法攻击卡斯特鲁乔的部队。在一种情况下，他们会发现自己被置于他的两支军队之间，一支在他自己的指挥下，另一支在帕戈洛的指挥下；而在另一种情况下，他们将不得不渡过阿尔诺河才能与敌人近距离接触，这是一项伟大的任务。冒险。为了引诱佛罗伦萨人采取后一种做法，卡斯特鲁乔将他的部队从河岸撤走，并将他们安置在富切基奥的城墙下，在他们和河流之间留下了一大片土地。

The Florentines, having occupied San Miniato, held a council of war to decide whether they should attack Pisa or the army of Castruccio, and, having weighed the difficulties of both courses, they decided upon the latter. The river Arno was at that time low enough to be fordable, yet the water reached to the shoulders of the infantrymen and to the saddles of the horsemen. On the morning of 10 June 1328, the Florentines commenced the battle by ordering forward a number of cavalry and ten thousand infantry. Castruccio, whose plan of action was fixed, and who well knew what to do, at once attacked the Florentines with five thousand infantry and three thousand horsemen, not allowing them to issue from the river before he charged them; he also sent one thousand light infantry up the river bank, and the same number down the Arno. The infantry of the Florentines were so much impeded by their arms and the water that they were not able to mount the banks of the river, whilst the cavalry had made the passage of the river more difficult for the others, by reason of the few who had crossed having broken up the bed of the river, and this being deep with mud, many of the horses rolled over with their riders and many of them had stuck so fast that they could not move. When the Florentine captains saw the difficulties their men were meeting, they withdrew them and moved higher up the river, hoping to find the river bed less treacherous and the banks more adapted for landing. These men were met at the bank by the forces which Castruccio had already sent forward, who, being light armed with bucklers and javelins in their hands, let fly with tremendous shouts into the faces and bodies of the cavalry. The horses, alarmed by the noise and the wounds, would not move forward, and trampled each other in great confusion. The fight between the men of Castruccio and those of the enemy who succeeded in crossing was sharp and terrible; both sides fought with the utmost desperation and neither would yield. The soldiers of Castruccio fought to drive the others back into the river, whilst the Florentines strove to get a footing on land in order to make room for the others pressing forward, who if they could but get out of the water would be able to fight, and in this obstinate conflict they were urged on by their captains. Castruccio shouted to his men that these were the same enemies whom they had before conquered at Serravalle, whilst the Florentines reproached each other that the many should be overcome by the few. At length Castruccio, seeing how long the battle had lasted, and that both his men and the enemy were utterly exhausted, and that both sides had many killed and wounded, pushed forward another body of infantry to take up a position at the rear of those who were fighting; he then commanded these latter to open their ranks as if they intended to retreat, and one part of them to turn to the right and another to the left. This cleared a space of which the Florentines at once took advantage, and thus gained possession of a portion of the battlefield. But when these tired soldiers found themselves at close quarters with Castruccio’s reserves they could not stand against them and at once fell back into the river. The cavalry of either side had not as yet gained any decisive advantage over the other, because Castruccio, knowing his inferiority in this arm, had commanded his leaders only to stand on the defensive against the attacks of their adversaries, as he hoped that when he had overcome the infantry he would be able to make short work of the cavalry. This fell out as he had hoped, for when he saw the Florentine army driven back across the river he ordered the remainder of his infantry to attack the cavalry of the enemy. This they did with lance and javelin, and, joined by their own cavalry, fell upon the enemy with the greatest fury and soon put him to flight. The Florentine captains, having seen the difficulty their cavalry had met with in crossing the river, had attempted to make their infantry cross lower down the river, in order to attack the flanks of Castruccio’s army. But here, also, the banks were steep and already lined by the men of Castruccio, and this movement was quite useless. Thus the Florentines were so completely defeated at all points that scarcely a third of them escaped, and Castruccio was again covered with glory. Many captains were taken prisoners, and Carlo, the son of King Ruberto, with Michelagnolo Falconi and Taddeo degli Albizzi, the Florentine commissioners, fled to Empoli. If the spoils were great, the slaughter was infinitely greater, as might be expected in such a battle. Of the Florentines there fell twenty thousand two hundred and thirty-one men, whilst Castruccio lost one thousand five hundred and seventy men.
佛罗伦萨人占领了圣米尼亚托后，召开了一次战争会议来决定是进攻比萨还是进攻卡斯特鲁乔的军队，在权衡了两者的困难后，他们决定选择后者。当时阿尔诺河水位低，可以涉水，但水位已及步兵的肩膀和骑兵的马鞍。 1328年6月10日早晨，佛罗伦萨人命令大量骑兵和一万名步兵开始战斗。卡斯特鲁乔的行动计划已经确定，并且清楚地知道该怎么做，他立即率领五千步兵和三千骑兵攻击佛罗伦萨人，在他冲锋之前不让他们从河里出来。他还派遣了一千名轻步兵沿河岸而上，并派遣了同样数量的轻步兵沿阿尔诺河而下。佛罗伦萨人的步兵受到武器和水的严重阻碍，无法登上河岸，而骑兵则使其他人通过河流变得更加困难，因为少数人河床被冲破了，河水很深，许多马匹和骑手都翻倒了，许多马都被卡住了，无法移动。当佛罗伦萨的船长看到他们的士兵遇到的困难时，他们撤回了他们并向河上游移动，希望发现河床不那么危险，河岸更适合登陆。这些人在岸边与卡斯特鲁乔已经派出的部队会合，他们手持圆盾和标枪，以轻装上阵，以巨大的喊叫声射向骑兵的脸部和身体。 马匹受到噪音和伤口的惊吓，不再前进，混乱地互相践踏。卡斯特鲁乔的士兵和成功渡河的敌人之间的战斗是激烈而可怕的。双方都拼尽全力，谁也不肯屈服。卡斯特鲁乔的士兵奋力将其他人赶回河里，而佛罗伦萨人则努力在陆地上站稳脚跟，以便为其他向前推进的人腾出空间，如果他们能够离开水面，他们就能够战斗，在这场顽强的冲突中，他们受到了队长的催促。卡斯特鲁乔向他的部下喊道，这些敌人就是他们之前在塞拉瓦莱征服的敌人，而佛罗伦萨人则互相指责说，应该以少胜多。最后，卡斯特鲁乔见战斗持续了这么久，他的人和敌人都已经筋疲力尽，双方都有许多人死伤，他又派出另一支步兵队，在他们的后方占据位置。谁在战斗；然后他命令后者拉开队伍，好像要撤退一样，一部分向右转，另一部分向左转。这为佛罗伦萨人立即利用了一个空间，从而占领了战场的一部分。但是，当这些疲惫的士兵发现自己与卡斯特鲁乔的预备队近距离接触时，他们无法抵挡他们，立即落入河中。 双方的骑兵还没有取得任何对对方的决定性优势，因为卡斯特鲁乔知道自己在这方面的劣势，所以命令他的领导人只对对手的进攻采取防御态度，正如他所希望的那样战胜了步兵，他就能很快消灭骑兵。结果正如他所希望的那样，因为当他看到佛罗伦萨军队被赶回河对岸时，他命令剩余的步兵攻击敌人的骑兵。他们用长矛和标枪做到了这一点，并与自己的骑兵一起，以最大的愤怒向敌人发起攻击，很快将其击退。佛罗伦萨的将领看到他们的骑兵在渡河时遇到的困难，试图让他们的步兵渡河到河下游，以便攻击卡斯特鲁乔军队的侧翼。但这里的河岸也很陡峭，卡斯特鲁乔的人已经排成一排，这一行动毫无用处。因此，佛罗伦萨人在各个方面都被彻底击败，几乎没有三分之一的人逃脱了，而卡斯特鲁乔再次被荣耀所笼罩。许多船长被俘，鲁贝托国王的儿子卡洛与佛罗伦萨专员米凯拉尼奥洛·法尔科尼和塔迪奥·德利·阿尔比齐逃往恩波利。如果战利品多，那么屠杀就会无限大，正如在这样的一场战斗中所预料的那样。佛罗伦萨人阵亡了两万二百三十一人，而卡斯特鲁乔则损失了一千五百七十人。

But Fortune growing envious of the glory of Castruccio took away his life just at the time when she should have preserved it, and thus ruined all those plans which for so long a time he had worked to carry into effect, and in the successful prosecution of which nothing but death could have stopped him. Castruccio was in the thick of the battle the whole of the day; and when the end of it came, although fatigued and overheated, he stood at the gate of Fucecchio to welcome his men on their return from victory and personally thank them. He was also on the watch for any attempt of the enemy to retrieve the fortunes of the day; he being of the opinion that it was the duty of a good general to be the first man in the saddle and the last out of it. Here Castruccio stood exposed to a wind which often rises at midday on the banks of the Arno, and which is often very unhealthy; from this he took a chill, of which he thought nothing, as he was accustomed to such troubles; but it was the cause of his death. On the following night he was attacked with high fever, which increased so rapidly that the doctors saw it must prove fatal. Castruccio, therefore, called Pagolo Guinigi to him, and addressed him as follows:
但命运对卡斯特鲁乔的荣耀越来越嫉妒，就在她本应保住他的时候夺走了他的生命，从而毁掉了他长期以来努力实施的所有计划，并成功地执行了除了死亡，没有什么能阻止他。卡斯特鲁乔一整天都处于战斗最激烈的状态。当战争结束时，尽管他又累又热，他仍然站在富切基奥城门口欢迎他的部下胜利归来，并亲自向他们表示感谢。他还警惕敌人任何企图夺回当日命运的行为。他认为，一个好将军的职责是第一个上马，最后一个下马。在这里，卡斯特鲁乔站在阿尔诺河畔正午时常刮起的风中，这种风往往非常不健康。听到这里，他感到一阵寒意，但他对此并没有多想，因为他已经习惯了这样的麻烦。但这是他的死因。第二天晚上，他发高烧，烧得很快，医生认为他肯定是致命的。因此，卡斯特鲁乔将帕戈洛·吉尼吉叫到身边，并对他说道：

‘If I could have believed that Fortune would have cut me off in the midst of the career which was leading to that glory which all my successes promised, I should have laboured less, and I should have left thee, if a smaller state, at least with fewer enemies and perils, because I should have been content with the governorships of Lucca and Pisa. I should neither have subjugated the Pistoians, nor outraged the Florentines with so many injuries. But I would have made both these peoples my friends, and I should have lived, if no longer, at least more peacefully, and have left you a state without a doubt smaller, but one more secure and established on a surer foundation. But Fortune, who insists upon having the arbitrament of human affairs, did not endow me with sufficient judgment to recognize this from the first, nor the time to surmount it. Thou hast heard, for many have told thee, and I have never concealed it, how I entered the house of thy father whilst yet a boy—a stranger to all those ambitions which every generous soul should feel—and how I was brought up by him, and loved as though I had been born of his blood; how under his governance I learned to be valiant and capable of availing myself of all that fortune, of which thou hast been witness. When thy good father came to die, he committed thee and all his possessions to my care, and I have brought thee up with that love, and increased thy estate with that care, which I was bound to show. And in order that thou shouldst not only possess the estate which thy father left, but also that which my fortune and abilities have gained, I have never married, so that the love of children should never deflect my mind from that gratitude which I owed to the children of thy father. Thus I leave thee a vast estate, of which I am well content, but I am deeply concerned, inasmuch as I leave it thee unsettled and insecure. Thou hast the city of Lucca on thy hands, which will never rest contented under they government. Thou hast also Pisa, where the men are of nature changeable and unreliable, who, although they may be sometimes held in subjection, yet they will ever disdain to serve under a Lucchese. Pistoia is also disloyal to thee, she being eaten up with factions and deeply incensed against thy family by reason of the wrongs recently inflicted upon them. Thou hast for neighbours the offended Florentines, injured by us in a thousand ways, but not utterly destroyed, who will hail the news of my death with more delight than they would the acquisition of all Tuscany. In the Emperor and in the princes of Milan thou canst place no reliance, for they are far distant, slow, and their help is very long in coming. Therefore, thou hast no hope in anything but in thine own abilities, and in the memory of my valour, and in the prestige which this latest victory has brought thee; which, as thou knowest how to use it with prudence, will assist thee to come to terms with the Florentines, who, as they are suffering under this great defeat, should be inclined to listen to thee. And whereas I have sought to make them my enemies, because I believed that war with them would conduce to my power and glory, thou hast every inducement to make friends of them, because their alliance will bring thee advantages and security. It is of the greatest important in this world that a man should know himself, and the measure of his own strength and means; and he who knows that he has not a genius for fighting must learn how to govern by the arts of peace. And it will be well for thee to rule they conduct by my counsel, and to learn in this way to enjoy what my life-work and dangers have gained; and in this thou wilt easily succeed when thou hast learnt to believe that what I have told thee is true. And thou wilt be doubly indebted to me, in that I have left thee this realm and have taught thee how to keep it.’
“如果我相信命运会在我的职业生涯中将我切断，而我的职业生涯正通向我所有的成功所承诺的荣耀，那么我就应该少劳作，并且我应该离开你，如果你是一个较小的国家，至少敌人和危险会更少，因为我应该满足于担任卢卡和比萨的总督。我既不应该征服皮斯托人，也不应该激怒佛罗伦萨人，造成如此多的伤害。但我会让这两个民族成为我的朋友，我应该生活得更加和平，如果不再如此，至少会更加和平，并且给你们留下一个毫无疑问较小的国家，但一个更加安全和建立在更可靠基础上的国家。但命运坚持要对人类事务进行仲裁，并没有赋予我足够的判断力从一开始就认识到这一点，也没有赋予我克服它的时间。你已经听说过，因为很多人都告诉过你，我从来没有隐瞒过，我在还是个孩子的时候是如何进入你父亲的家的——对每个慷慨的灵魂都应该感受到的所有那些野心都是陌生的——以及我是如何被抚养长大的。我爱他，就好像我是他的血统所生；在他的领导下，我学会了如何勇敢并能够利用自己所有的财富，你已经见证了这一点。当你的好父亲去世时，他把你和他的所有财产都交给我照顾，我用那种爱抚养你长大，用那种我必须表现出的照顾增加你的财产。为了让您不仅拥有您父亲留下的财产，而且还拥有我的财产和能力所获得的财产，我从未结过婚，这样对孩子的爱就永远不会转移我的感激之情。你父亲的孩子们。 因此，我给你留下了一大笔财产，我对此很满意，但我深感担忧，因为我让你感到不安和不安全。你手上有卢卡市，它永远不会满足于他们的政府。你也有比萨，那里的人生性多变，不可靠，虽然他们有时可能受到奴役，但他们永远不屑于在卢凯斯手下服役。皮斯托亚对你也不忠诚，她被派系所吞噬，并且由于最近对你的家人所施加的错误而对他们深感愤怒。你的邻居是被冒犯的佛罗伦萨人，他们被我们以一千种方式伤害，但并没有被彻底摧毁，他们会在听到我的死讯时比他们获得整个托斯卡纳更高兴。你不能信赖米兰的皇帝和王子们，因为他们距离遥远，行动迟缓，而且他们的帮助也需要很长时间才能到来。因此，除了你自己的能力、我的英勇记忆以及这次最近的胜利给你带来的威望之外，你对任何事情都别无希望。正如你知道如何谨慎使用它一样，这将有助于你与佛罗伦萨人达成协议，因为他们正在遭受这场巨大的失败，他们应该倾向于听你的。虽然我试图与他们为敌，因为我相信与他们的战争将有助于我的权力和荣耀，但你完全有理由与他们交朋友，因为他们的联盟将为你带来优势和安全。在这个世界上，最重要的是一个人应该了解自己，了解自己的力量和手段。知道自己没有战斗天赋的人必须学习如何通过和平的艺术进行统治。 你最好按照我的建议来规范他们的行为，并以这种方式学习享受我一生的工作和危险所获得的成果。当你学会相信我告诉你的都是真的时，你就会很容易成功。你将加倍地感激我，因为我把这个王国留给了你，并教你如何保持它。’

After this there came to Castruccio those citizens of Pisa, Pistoia, and Lucca, who had been fighting at his side, and whilst recommending Pagolo to them, and making them swear obedience to him as his successor, he died. He left a happy memory to those who had known him, and no prince of those times was ever loved with such devotion as he was. His obsequies were celebrated with every sign of mourning, and he was buried in San Francesco at Lucca. Fortune was not so friendly to Pagolo Guinigi as she had been to Castruccio, for he had not the abilities. Not long after the death of Castruccio, Pagolo lost Pisa, and then Pistoia, and only with difficulty held on to Lucca. This latter city continued in the family of Guinigi until the time of the great-grandson of Pagolo.
此后，曾与他并肩作战的比萨、皮斯托亚和卢卡的公民来到卡斯特鲁乔，在向他们推荐帕戈洛并让他们发誓服从他作为继承人的同时，他去世了。他给认识他的人留下了美好的回忆，那个时代没有一位王子像他一样受到如此忠诚的爱戴。人们以各种哀悼的方式庆祝了他的葬礼，他被埋葬在卢卡的圣弗朗西斯科。命运对帕戈洛·吉尼吉不像对卡斯特鲁乔那么友好，因为他没有能力。卡斯特鲁乔去世后不久，帕戈洛失去了比萨，然后是皮斯托亚，并且艰难地保住了卢卡。后一座城市一直由吉尼吉家族一直延续到帕戈洛的曾孙时代。

From what has been related here it will be seen that Castruccio was a man of exceptional abilities, not only measured by men of his own time, but also by those of an earlier date. In stature he was above the ordinary height, and perfectly proportioned. He was of a gracious presence, and he welcomed men with such urbanity that those who spoke with him rarely left him displeased. His hair was inclined to be red, and he wore it cut short above the ears, and, whether it rained or snowed, he always went without a hat. He was delightful among friends, but terrible to his enemies; just to his subjects; ready to play false with the unfaithful, and willing to overcome by fraud those whom he desired to subdue, because he was wont to say that it was the victory that brought the glory, not the methods of achieving it. No one was bolder in facing danger, none more prudent in extricating himself. He was accustomed to say that men ought to attempt everything and fear nothing; that God is a lover of strong men, because one always sees that the weak are chastised by the strong. He was also wonderfully sharp or biting though courteous in his answers; and as he did not look for any indulgence in this way of speaking from others, so he was not angered with others did not show it to him. It has often happened that he has listened quietly when others have spoken sharply to him, as on the following occasions. He had caused a ducat to be given for a partridge, and was taken to task for doing so by a friend, to whom Castruccio had said: ‘You would not have given more than a penny.’ ‘That is true,’ answered the friend. Then said Castruccio to him: ‘A ducat is much less to me.’ Having about him a flatterer on whom he had spat to show that he scorned him, the flatterer said to him: ‘Fisherman are willing to let the waters of the sea saturate them in order that they make take a few little fishes, and I allow myself to be wetted by spittle that I may catch a whale”; and this was not only heard by Castruccio with patience but rewarded. When told by a priest that it was wicked for him to live so sumptuously, Castruccio said: ‘If that be a vice than you should not fare so splendidly at the feasts of our saints.’ Passing through a street he saw a young man as he came out of a house of ill fame blush at being seen by Castruccio, and said to him: ‘Thou shouldst not be ashamed when thou comest out, but when thou goest into such places.’ A friend gave him a very curiously tied knot to undo and was told: ‘Fool, do you think that I wish to untie a thing which gave so much trouble to fasten.’ Castruccio said to one who professed to be a philosopher: ‘You are like the dogs who always run after those who will give them the best to eat,’ and was answered: ‘We are rather like the doctors who go to the houses of those who have the greatest need of them.’ Going by water from Pisa to Leghorn, Castruccio was much disturbed by a dangerous storm that sprang up, and was reproached for cowardice by one of those with him, who said that he did not fear anything. Castruccio answered that he did not wonder at that, since every man valued his soul for what is was worth. Being asked by one what he ought to do to gain estimation, he said: ‘When thou goest to a banquet take care that thou dost not seat one piece of wood upon another.’ To a person who was boasting that he had read many things, Castruccio said: ‘He knows better than to boast of remembering many things.’ Someone bragged that he could drink much without becoming intoxicated. Castruccio replied: ‘An ox does the same.’ Castruccio was acquainted with a girl with whom he had intimate relations, and being blamed by a friend who told him that it was undignified for him to be taken in by a woman, he said: ‘She has not taken me in, I have taken her.’ Being also blamed for eating very dainty foods, he answered: ‘Thou dost not spend as much as I do?’ and being told that it was true, he continued: ‘Then thou art more avaricious than I am gluttonous.’ Being invited by Taddeo Bernardi, a very rich and splendid citizen of Luca, to supper, he went to the house and was shown by Taddeo into a chamber hung with silk and paved with fine stones representing flowers and foliage of the most beautiful colouring. Castruccio gathered some saliva in his mouth and spat it out upon Taddeo, and seeing him much disturbed by this, said to him: ‘I knew not where to spit in order to offend thee less.’ Being asked how Caesar died he said: ‘God willing I will die as he did.’ Being one night in the house of one of his gentlemen where many ladies were assembled, he was reproved by one of his friends for dancing and amusing himself with them more than was usual in one of his station, so he said: ‘He who is considered wise by day will not be considered a fool at night.’ A person came to demand a favour of Castruccio, and thinking he was not listening to his plea threw himself on his knees to the ground, and being sharply reproved by Castruccio, said: ‘Thou art the reason of my acting thus for thou hast thy ears in thy feet,’ whereupon he obtained double the favour he had asked. Castruccio used to say that the way to hell was an easy one, seeing that it was in a downward direction and you travelled blindfolded. Being asked a favour by one who used many superfluous words, he said to him: ‘When you have another request to make, send someone else to make it.’ Having been wearied by a similar man with a long oration who wound up by saying: ‘Perhaps I have fatigued you by speaking so long,’ Castruccio said: ‘You have not, because I have not listened to a word you said.’ He used to say of one who had been a beautiful child and who afterwards became a fine man, that he was dangerous, because he first took the husbands from the wives and now he took the wives from their husbands. To an envious man who laughed, he said: ‘Do you laugh because you are successful or because another is unfortunate?’ Whilst he was still in the charge of Messer Francesco Guinigi, one of his companions said to him: ‘What shall I give you if you will let me give you a blow on the nose?’ Castruccio answered: ‘A helmet.’ Having put to death a citizen of Lucca who had been instrumental in raising him to power, and being told that he had done wrong to kill one of his old friends, he answered that people deceived themselves; he had only killed a new enemy. Castruccio praised greatly those men who intended to take a wife and then did not do so, saying that they were like men who said they would go to sea, and then refused when the time came. He said that it always struck him with surprise that whilst men in buying an earthen or glass vase would sound it first to learn if it were good, yet in choosing a wife they were content with only looking at her. He was once asked in what manner he would wish to be buried when he died, and answered: ‘With the face turned downwards, for I know when I am gone this country will be turned upside down.’ On being asked if it had ever occurred to him to become a friar in order to save his soul, he answered that it had not, because it appeared strange to him that Fra Lazerone should go to Paradise and Uguccione della Faggiuola to the Inferno. He was once asked when should a man eat to preserve his health, and replied: ‘If the man be rich let him eat when he is hungry; if he be poor, then when he can.’ Seeing on of his gentlemen make a member of his family lace him up, he said to him: ‘I pray God that you will let him feed you also.’ Seeing that someone had written upon his house in Latin the words: ‘May God preserve this house from the wicked,’ he said, ‘The owner must never go in.’ Passing through one of the streets he saw a small house with a very large door, and remarked: ‘That house will fly through the door.’ He was having a discussion with the ambassador of the King of Naples concerning the property of some banished nobles, when a dispute arose between them, and the ambassador asked him if he had no fear of the king. ‘Is this king of yours a bad man or a good one?’ asked Castruccio, and was told that he was a good one, whereupon he said, ‘Why should you suggest that I should be afraid of a good man?’
从这里所描述的内容可以看出，卡斯特鲁乔是一个具有非凡能力的人，不仅以他同时代的人来衡量，而且以更早的时代的人来衡量。他的身材高于常人，而且比例完美。他待人彬彬有礼，待人彬彬有礼，与他交谈的人很少会让他感到不高兴。他的头发偏红，头发剪得很短，过过耳朵，无论下雨还是下雪，他总是不戴帽子。他在朋友面前令人愉快，但在敌人面前却很可怕。只针对他的臣民；他准备对不忠的人撒谎，并愿意用欺诈来征服那些他想征服的人，因为他习惯说带来荣耀的是胜利，而不是实现荣耀的方法。没有人比他更勇敢地面对危险，也没有人比他更谨慎地摆脱危险。他常说，人应该凡事尝试，无所畏惧。上帝是强者的爱人，因为人们总是看到弱者受到强者的惩罚。他的回答虽然彬彬有礼，但也非常尖锐或尖刻。由于他不希望别人以这种方式说话，所以他不会生别人的气，也不会向他表现出来。当别人对他说话尖刻时，他常常安静地听着，就像下面的情况一样。他让人们用一杜卡特换一只鹧鸪，并因此受到一位朋友的责备，卡斯特鲁乔对他说：“你不会给超过一分钱。”“是的，”回答道。朋友。然后卡斯特鲁乔对他说：“杜卡特对我来说要小得多。”’他身边有一个阿谀奉承者，他向他吐口水，以示对他的蔑视，阿谀奉承者对他说：‘渔夫愿意让海水浸透他们，以便捕获一些小鱼，而我让自己被唾沫弄湿，这样我就可以抓到鲸鱼了”；卡斯特鲁乔不仅耐心地听到了这句话，而且得到了回报。当一位牧师告诉卡斯特鲁乔他过着如此奢侈的生活是邪恶的，他说：“如果这是一种恶习，那么你就不应该在我们圣徒的节日上表现得如此华丽。”穿过一条街道时，他看到一个年轻人他从一所声名狼藉的房子里出来，被卡斯特鲁乔看见，脸红了，对他说：“你出来的时候不应该感到羞耻，但当你走进这样的地方时。”一个朋友给了他一个非常奇怪的结。卡斯特鲁乔对一位自称是哲学家的人说：“你就像那些总是追赶那些人的狗一样。”谁会给他们最好的食物，”他回答说：“我们就像医生一样，去那些最需要食物的人家里。”从比萨乘水路到来窝那，卡斯特鲁乔感到非常不安。一场危险的风暴突然爆发，他身边的一个人指责他胆怯，他说他什么都不怕。卡斯特鲁乔回答说，他对此并不感到奇怪，因为每个人都珍视自己的灵魂。当有人问他应该做什么才能获得评价时，他说：“当你去参加宴会时，请注意不要将一块木头放在另一块木头上。”对于一个吹嘘自己读过很多东西的人卡斯特鲁乔说：“他知道不应该吹嘘自己记住了很多事情。’有人吹嘘自己可以喝很多酒而不醉。卡斯特鲁乔回答说：“牛也会做同样的事情。”卡斯特鲁乔认识一位与他有亲密关系的女孩，并被一位朋友指责，朋友告诉他，他被女人收留是有失尊严的，他说： “她没有接纳我，是我接纳了她。”他还因为吃得很美味而受到指责，他回答说：“你花钱的钱不像我多吗？”当被告知这是真的时，他继续说道：“那么你比我更贪婪。”塔迪奥·贝尔纳迪（Taddeo Bernardi）是卢卡一位非常富有、光彩照人的公民，他邀请他去吃晚饭。代表最美丽色彩的花朵和叶子。卡斯特鲁乔在嘴里收集了一些唾液，吐在塔迪奥身上，看到他对此感到非常不安，对他说：“我不知道该吐到哪里才能少冒犯你。”当被问到凯撒是怎么死的时，他说：“上帝保佑，我也会像他一样死掉。”有一天晚上，他在一位绅士的家里，那里聚集了许多女士，他受到一位朋友的责备，因为他与她们跳舞和娱乐的次数比在他的一位朋友中平常多得多。车站，所以他说：“白天被认为是明智的人，晚上不会被认为是傻瓜。”一个人来请求卡斯特鲁乔的帮助，他以为他没有听他的恳求，就跪倒在地。地面上，卡斯特鲁乔严厉斥责了他，他说：“你就是我这样做的原因，因为你的耳朵在你的脚上。”于是他得到了他所要求的双倍的恩惠。 卡斯特鲁乔曾经说过，通往地狱的路很容易走，因为它是向下的，而且你是蒙着眼睛走的。当有人请求他帮忙时，他用了很多多余的词语，他对他说：“当你有另一个要求时，就派别人去提出吧。”他厌倦了一位类似的人的长篇大论，最后说：卡斯特鲁乔说：“也许我讲了这么久，让你感到疲劳了。”“你没有，因为我没有听过你说的一句话。”他曾经这样说过，一个曾经是一个漂亮的孩子，后来变成了一个好人，他是危险的，因为他首先从妻子那里夺走了丈夫，现在他又从他们的丈夫那里夺走了妻子。他对一个笑起来的嫉妒者说：“你笑是因为你成功了，还是因为别人不幸了？”当他还在弗朗西斯科·吉尼吉先生的掌管下时，他的一位同伴对他说：“我该给什么？”如果你愿意让我打你的鼻子吗？”卡斯特鲁乔回答道：“一顶头盔。”他处死了一名曾帮助他上台的卢卡公民，并被告知他对自己的权力做了错事。杀了他的一位老朋友，他回答说人们欺骗自己；他只是杀死了一个新的敌人。卡斯特鲁乔对那些想要娶妻却没有娶妻的男人大加赞赏，说他们就像说要出海却到了时机却又拒绝的男人一样。他说，令他感到惊讶的是，男人买陶瓶或玻璃花瓶时会先听听是否好，但选择妻子时却只看她就满足了。 有一次有人问他死后希望以什么方式下葬，他回答说：“脸朝下，因为我知道当我去世时，这个国家将会发生翻天覆地的变化。”当他想到成为一名修道士是为了拯救自己的灵魂时，他回答说没有，因为弗拉·拉泽罗内应该去天堂，而乌古奇奥内·德拉·法吉奥拉去地狱，这对他来说似乎很奇怪。有一次，有人问他，一个人应该什么时候吃东西来保持健康，他回答说：“如果一个人富有，就让他饿了就吃；如果一个人富有，就让他在饥饿的时候吃东西；如果他有钱，就让他在饥饿的时候吃东西。”如果他很穷，那么当他可以的时候。”看到他的绅士们给他的家人系上鞋带，他对他说：“我祈祷上帝，让他也养活你。”看到有人写了他的房子上用拉丁文写着：“愿上帝保佑这所房子免遭恶人之手，”他说，“房主绝对不能进去。”穿过一条街道时，他看到一栋小房子，有一扇很大的门，他说道： ：“那座房子会飞过门。”他正在与那不勒斯国王的大使讨论一些被放逐的贵族的财产问题，这时他们之间发生了争执，大使问他是否不怕国王。 “你们的这位国王是坏人还是好人？”卡斯特鲁乔问，并被告知他是好人，于是他说：“你为什么建议我应该害怕一个好人？’

I could recount many other stories of his sayings both witty and weighty, but I think that the above will be sufficient testimony to his high qualities. He lived forty-four years, and was in every way a prince. And as he was surrounded by many evidences of his good fortune, so he also desired to have near him some memorials of his bad fortune; therefore the manacles with which he was chained in prison are to be seen to this day fixed up in the tower of his residence, where they were placed by him to testify for ever to his days of adversity. As in his life he was inferior neither to Philip of Macedon, the father of Alexander, nor to Scipio of Rome, so he died in the same year of his age as they did, and he would doubtless have excelled both of them had Fortune decreed that he should be born, not in Lucca, but in Macedonia or Rome.
我可以讲述他的许多其他故事，既诙谐又有分量，但我认为以上足以证明他的高品质。他活了四十四岁，在各方面都堪称王子。由于他周围有许多表明他好运的证据，所以他也希望在他身边有一些关于他不幸的纪念物。因此，他在监狱中被锁住的手铐至今仍留在他住所的塔楼里，他把它们放置在那里，以永远见证他的逆境。由于他一生中既不逊色于亚历山大之父马其顿的腓力，也不逊色于罗马的西庇阿，所以他与他们同年去世，如果命运注定的话，他无疑会超越他们两人。他应该出生在马其顿或罗马，而不是卢卡。